30 MINUTES OR LESS 
Written by 
Michael Diliberti & Matthew Sullivan 
The following is very loosely based on some shit that actually happened... OVER BLACK 
We hear the roar of a V8 engine, piped out through some throaty, fucked up muffler, as 
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 
An '89 Mustang bursts like a shot over a rise in the highway. It's got a rusted two-tone paint job, Maryland plates, and bald tires that scream as it peels off an exit and into the 
EXT. SUBURBS - DAY 
The car fast approaches a stop sign, dangerously blows through the intersection. 
INT. MUSTANG - DAY - MOVING 
We don't see the DRIVER, only the redlining RPMs, Vans slip- ons working the pedals, wristwatch being checked. The wheel cranks right as the car turns onto a - 
One way street. A minivan flies right at us. The Mustang hops up onto the curb to avoid it, clips a trash can and - 
Garbage explodes like confetti. The wipers engage, brushing the trash aside. The car whips another turn and 
EXT. SUBURBS - DAY 
The Mustang fishtails around a corner and skids away. 
CUT TO: 
TIRES SCREECH 
Brake pads smoke. The Mustang stops outside 
EXT. HOUSE - DAY 
The Driver jumps out of the car. As he rushes to the front door, we see the urgent package he is delivering. 
TWO LARGE PIZZAS 
Before he can ring the bell, the door opens and two smug 15- YEAR-OLDS stare out. 
15-YEAR-OLD That's 34 minutes. You're 4 minutes late. Pizza's free. 
REVEAL our guy staring back at the kids. This is WILL (25), probably good looking in another life. 
Right now, he is tired and unamused, wearing a red "Giorgio's Trattoria" hat and a sweaty matching t-shirt. 
WILL Gimme a break. You guys live two towns away. It's pretty much fucking impossible to get here in 30 minutes. 
OTHER 15-YEAR-OLD Exactly. That's why we ordered from your shitty "trattoria." 
WILL This is gonna come out of my paycheck. You sure you don't want to take the moral high ground? 
OTHER 15-YEAR-OLD We'd rather take the pizzas. 
Will takes a calming breath. Hands over the pizzas. 
WILL Ok. You guys are pretty smart. You figured out a way to beat the system. (PEEKS INSIDE) Got the house to yourselves? 
15-YEAR-OLD That's right. 
WILL Not bad. Any jailbait in there? Little pizza and a rainbow party? 
The kids shakes their heads. 
WILL Seriously? Well, two hustlers like yourselves gotta have the place stocked with beer and whippits and shit, right? Just call the girls up and let them know the party's on. 
15-YEAR-OLD Man, we don't have any of that stuff. 
Will makes a show of mulling this over. 
WILL I really shouldn't do this...but you seem like a couple of good dudes. I'll tell you what, you give me the money that your mom left you for the pizzas, and I'll grab you some beers. (MORE) 
WILL (CONT'D) (BEAT) But I get to keep the change as a tip. Deal? 
The kids look at each other. One hesitantly pulls out some cash. Will snatches it and heads off. 
Will grudgingly stands up. 
WILL I guess that's just the difference between you and me. 
He holds up the Lethal Weapon DVDs. 
WILL I'm like Riggs. Cruising the streets. No rules, no attachments. Every other day some asshole is trying to take my badge. You're fucking Murtaugh. Always worried about your pension. Well, guess what, it gets old after the first movie. 
CHET I just got head. I'm totally Riggs. Will shakes his head, turns and walks off. INT. STUDIO APARTMENT - DAY Will wakes up, legs dangling over the edge of a tiny couch. His TV is still on, displaying the menu screen from a porn. Will looks down at his coffee table. Clears some magazines to reveal a file folder. Flips the cover - It's full of college applications, drafts of admissions essays, a junior college transcript. Will thumbs through one of the glossy applications. The kids look young. Very young. Will glances over at a picture on his wall: he and Chet at high school graduation, looking just as young. They have their arms around a pretty girl squeezed between them. Will and the girl look very high and very happy. Will shuts the folder, slides it back under the coffee table debris. He looks over at a clock: it is already 2:00 PM. WILL Fuck. INT. MUSTANG - DAY Will jumps in and starts the engine. As he tucks his "Giorgio's" cap onto his head, he catches his reflection in the rear-view mirror. 
WILL You asshole. You titanic asshole. Come on down and get your prize. 
He makes his fingers into a gun, puts it to his head...pulls the trigger and 
BOOM! 
WE'RE IN 
EXT. OPEN FIELD - DAY 
A watermelon explodes in a shower of red, juicy bits. Loud, dumb laughter echoes. 
Standing 20 yards away is DWAYNE (32), an intense, meaty guy in a sleeveless Baltimore Ravens t-shirt. On his left bicep is a tattoo of the Tasmanian Devil flipping the bird. 
DWAYNE Fruit motherfuckin' salad! 
Crouched beside him is JAY (27), tall and awkward, in a wool surplus cap. He carefully rigs homemade explosives to another watermelon, then looks up at Dwayne. His eyes are magnified into saucers by his thick glasses. There's a peculiar eagerness to please in them. 
JAY This one's gonna blow even bigger. 
DWAYNE Boy, if you weren't such a skinny little bitch you coulda been in the military or something. 
JAY Whatever. I don't need the military. I taught myself how to do this shit. 
DWAYNE I hear that. I taught myself how to eat pussy. And cut my own hair. 
Jay jogs the watermelon a safe distance away. He returns and pulls out a detonator. Dwayne snatches it. 
DWAYNE This one's all me. (makes "radio" sounds) Mr. President, we have enemies at the gate. Give me the order. (more "radio" sounds) Fuck that, sir. I don't negotiate with terrorists! 
Dwayne presses a button and 
BOOM! 
The explosion is so powerful that it sprinkles our guys' smiling faces with fruit juice. 
INT. KITCHEN, NICE HOUSE - DAY 
Large and early-90s chic. Dwayne and Jay have the fridge open, fixing themselves a cold cut plate. Dwayne is debating the amount of meat on the plate...adds some more. 
DWAYNE Wanna make sure I get enough calories. 
JAY I thought you wanted to get diesel for the summer. Bang that towel girl at the community pool. 
DWAYNE It's obvious you don't know shit-all about physical fitness. You gotta bulk up first, then you slim down. I'm clearly in the bulk up phase. I told you to watch Pumping Iron like a month ago. If you'd listened to me, maybe you'd know what the fuck I'm talking about. (BEAT) Grab some RC Cola. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NICE HOUSE - DAY 
The shades are drawn. We hear a girl scream bloody murder! 
The guys are watching FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 3...in 3D. They both wear cheap cardboard glasses. 
Jay jumps back as Jason wields a 3D ax. 
JAY Shit, man! It's so real! 
Dwayne reaches out, "touching" the 3D images. He stands and starts humping the air. 
DWAYNE Check it out. I ain't afraid of Jason. I'm fucking him. (THRUSTING HARDER) You like that, Jason!? In the mask! 
Jay cracks up. The lights flick on. 
GRIZZLED VOICE (O.S.) Who are you two fags fucking? 
Standing by the switch is Dwayne's dad, JERRY (70s). Most people just call him "THE MAJOR." The faded USMC tattoo on his thick forearm explains why. 
JAY Afternoon, Major. 
Dwayne flops back onto the couch. 
Rows of cubicles. Speckled with late night STRAGGLERS, bleary eyes, too busy generating detailed lists of places they'd rather be to notice the pizza boy walking along. Will stops before one such work station, looks on for a beat. 
WILL Rio? 
KATE (25) turns from the glow of her computer screen. She has short, messy hair and a sarcastic smile. This is the girl from the picture in Will's apartment. 
KATE That's the plan. Five days, six nights. Culture. Beaches. Acceptable probability of kidnapping. I leave in the morning. 
Kate looks back at her computer, logged onto an Expedia checkout page for a Rio vacation. She moves the mouse pointer from the "proceed" key...closes the window. 
KATE This morning I loaded up an African Safari and a cruise to Alaska. 
WILL Oh, the places you'll go. 
KATE Fuck Expedia. Travel Advisor. Making it seem so easy. 
WILL It is. Just do it. Get away for a while. 
KATE Even if I could afford that...they fired two other paralegals last week. Now's not the time to be putting in for vacation days. 
WILL Ok. Done. I've got my dose of the actual working world. Can we eat? 
Will lays a pizza down on her desk. 
KATE How do you keep sneaking up here past the security guard? 
WILL He's there like half the time. The other half I smile at him. I'm relatively certain he's a homosexual. 
KATE Interesting theory... 
Kate opens the pizza box, grabs a slice. 
KATE Maybe I should set him up with Tom Small. He came out to me today on Facebook. 
WILL That kid beat the hell out of me and Chet in grammar school. Wow. 
KATE Tell me about it. He fingered me at junior prom while they were playing "No Scrubs." 
WILL (WINCES) Really? What a fucking scrub. 
Will grabs a slice. They eat quietly for a beat. 
KATE So, I've got some news... 
WILL I thought the Tom Small stuff was enough of a headline, but go ahead. 
KATE I'm getting back together with Mark. 
Will's delicious pizza suddenly tastes like shit. He does his best to swallow it down. 
WILL But you...you broke up with him...ended the relationship. Finality was had. 
KATE Yeah, but we were talking and - 
WILL Forget it. I don't want to know. 
KATE You sound like Chet. 
WILL Woah, don't compare me to your brother. 
KATE Well, neither one of you seems to care that I don't have a life. Mark's not perfect...but a relationship is better than working late every Friday because I have nowhere else to be. 
WILL Sure. I get it. Here we are. Friday night. Nowhere to be. 
Kate shoves Will, good-naturedly. 
KATE You know what I mean. 
Will shrugs, quietly devastated. Goes back to his pizza. 
INT. SPORTS BAR - NIGHT 
Most of the PATRONS are fixated on an Orioles game blaring from a large flat-screen TV. 
At a booth in back, Dwayne and Jay are in deep conversation. 
JAY I don't wanna stick my nose into a family matter...but killing your old man? That's pretty messed up...I mean, unless you think it isn't. 
DWAYNE What we have here is a classic "lesser of two evils" debate. You got one evil: me shaving a few years off The Major's shitty life. Then you got the other evil: The Major ruining my entire awesome life by blowing through my inheritance. Maybe I'm biased, but mine sure as shit seems like the lesser. 
JAY Except The Major. 
DWAYNE Yeah. The Major dies. But no one gets hurt. 
Dwayne smiles. But a nagging thought interrupts him - 
DWAYNE There's just one problem. Where do we get our guy? 'Cause if we do a kidnapping, then we're right back where we started...doing shit that's gonna get us caught. (MIND WORKING) What we need is someone to come to us...to a place where we can control the situation. Someone without any connection to us. 
The guys stare at each other, stumped. Until something catches Dwayne's attention...a local commercial playing on the flat-screen. A PIZZA CHEF slides a pizza into a box - 
PIZZA CHEF (ON TV) We'll deliver anywhere in 30 minutes or less! Or your pizza is free! Giorgio's Trattoria, where the customer gets what they want...pronto! 
The guys look at each other. 
DWAYNE Sometimes fate just takes out its cock and slaps you in the face with it. 
INT. CHET'S APARTMENT - DAY 
A hand grabs a beer from the fridge. 
VOICE (O.S.) You're not trying to draw a psycho pension...you really are crazy! 
Will heads into the living room with the beer. The voice belongs to Danny Glover. The guys are watching Lethal Weapon. Murtaugh (Danny Glover) has just stopped Riggs (Mel Gibson) from killing himself. Riggs looks at him, crazily, before - 
RIGGS (ON TV) I'm hungry. I'm gonna get something to eat. 
Chet looks over at Will. He is drunk, and in a dark mood. 
CHET Maybe you should pace yourself. It's noon on a Saturday. 
WILL Fridge is full, man. We're all good. 
Will drains half his beer. 
WILL Let me ask you a question. You remember Tom Small? 
CHET Yeah, he used to kick our asses. 
WILL Turns out he was probably jerking off to it afterwards. He's gay. 
CHET I hope he chokes on a dick. I never liked him. 
WILL Your sister did. She let him finger blast her. Big time. 
Chet pauses the movie. 
CHET What the fuck are you talking about? I don't want that shit in my head. 
WILL Sorry. Kate told me about it last night. I thought you should know. 
CHET You two were swapping stories about getting fingered? That's pretty cute. 
Chet chuckles. Will ignores him, sips his beer. 
WILL The point I'm trying to make is this: Tom Small was an asshole. He was totally wrong for your sister. Just like every other guy she's ever dated. Right through to that Mark dude she's gonna get back together with. Un-be- fuck-me-lievable... 
CHET Whatever. Why the fuck are we talking about who my sister goes out with? 
At a loss, Will shrugs. Chet turns back to the TV, presses play. Lethal Weapon resumes. Something blows up. Chet pauses the movie and stares at Will for a beat. 
CHET You sneaky son of a bitch...you want to fuck my sister, don't you? 
WILL Chet, I really don't... 
CHET My twin sister!? Which is basically like fucking me! 
WILL Hey, if you guys had that twin ESP shit this would be a completely different situation. There'd be logistical problems. 
CHET We look exactly alike! 
WILL You look like a lot of people. You're a normal looking dude. 
CHET This is so fucked up I can't even begin to process it. How long has this been going on? 
WILL If I had to put my finger on it...middle school-ish. 
CHET So all those sleepovers, they were just some kind of opportunity for you to peek in Kate's bedroom? 
WILL It might have happened a few times. Most of them were accidental. 
Will storms out. 
EXT. CHET'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 
Will screeches away in his car. 
INT. STUDIO APARTMENT - NIGHT 
A day or so has passed. Will sits on his couch, an unshaven mess, watching Lethal Weapon 2. Murtaugh and Riggs laugh and joke around. Best buds. 
Will looks like he might cry. He goes for his beer, knocks it over. He stares at the growing puddle of beer...then grabs the folder with his college applications and uses them to sop it up. 
INT. GIORGIO'S TRATTORIA - NIGHT 
Will sits at a table, looking out through the misty window. 
Christopher boxes a pizza and drops it in front of him. 
CHRISTOPHER Come on, wake up and get to work. 
Christopher hands him the order slip. Will checks the address. 
WILL Where the fuck is this? 
CHRISTOPHER How should I know? It's 30 minutes away or the pizza comes out of your paycheck. Tick tock. 
EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
Will's Mustang travels down a dark, empty stretch of highway. The lone working taillight fades as the car disappears into the distance. 
EXT. SIDE OF THE HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
The Mustang stops at the mouth of a driveway. Overgrown shrubbery blocks anything beyond it from view. All that Will can see is a red and white radio tower jutting into the sky, beacon light flashing atop it. 
Will checks the address, then drives through the open gate. 
EXT. RADIO TOWER - NIGHT 
The Mustang parks at the end of the driveway. Will gets out. 
There is a large storage shed and, across a clearing, a radio tower built on top of a small office structure. 
The office door is ajar. Florescent light glows from inside. 
WILL Hello? 
DWAYNE (O.S.) (calling back from beyond door) Hey, bud! Sorry for the hike! The county's got us doing repairs at the ass end of the night! 
This puts Will at ease. He heads toward the office. As he gets close, a figure appears in the doorway. It is Dwayne 
WEARING A SCARY FUCKING GORILLA MASK 
WILL What the - 
Will hears something behind him and whirls around - 
To find Jay, also in a gorilla mask, charging at him. 
WILL Holy fuck! 
Will makes a run for it. But the guys are on top of him in no time. He madly fights them off and dashes for his car. 
DWAYNE Stop! We got a gun, you asshole! 
Will breaks toward the cover of the shrubbery. 
DWAYNE Fuck! Get him! 
Jay is right on Will's tail. Without breaking stride, Jay picks up a large branch and wings it at him. 
Will is hit in the legs and stumbles over himself. Jay leaps on top of him and locks his skinny legs around Will's body. 
WILL What the hell!? (at a loss) Rape! 
Jay wrestles something from his pocket. A chloroform soaked rag. He presses it hard against Will's mouth and nose. Will soon goes limp. 
Dwayne appears, looming above them. He pulls his gorilla mask back and smiles. 
DWAYNE Step one. 
Chet takes a step toward Will. 
CHET Are you sure that thing isn't gonna blow at any second? 
Will just looks at Chet...unable to offer any assurance. After a beat - 
CHET Could you just walk a few feet in front of me for a while? 
WILL I can do that. 
Will opens the door, stops, looks back at Chet. 
WILL Thank you. 
Will heads out. Chet takes a breath, bracing himself. 
INT. HALLWAY, JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL - DAY 
Will walks down the empty hallway. He glances back over his shoulder, where Chet walks several feet behind him. 
CHET Yes, I'm still here. I really am this stupid. Just pay attention to where you're going. 
WILL I think I can handle it. 
CHET These floors get waxed once a week. On Tuesday, which today is. You hit a slick patch, trip and fall, and I got a classroom full of kids wearing their skin inside out. 
WILL Chet, I'm fucking nervous enough as it is. Please. I don't need you back seat driving me right now. 
CHET Obviously. 
Will stops, turns back toward Chet. 
WILL Just for the record, this isn't a nuclear weapon strapped to my chest. And there are metal lockers on either side of the hallway. If I fall, and if this thing goes off, I'm probably not taking out the whole school. 
CHET Do you really want to debate this? 
Will sighs, turns back around. A second later, the school bell rings and kids flood the hallway, changing classes. 
Will freezes. Multiple kids shove past him. Chet sweats bullets, gives Will a look of death. 
After a beat, the hallway empties again. 
CHET You're an asshole. 
WILL Whatever. It's over. 
Will continues walking. He tries to lighten the mood - 
WILL Who was the chick in the white jeans? 
CHET Kristi Evans. Why? 
WILL You know why. 
CHET Oh, come on. Just keep walking. 
The guys' voices fade as they continue down the hallway... 
WILL Come on yourself. You knew exactly who I was talking about. 
CHET Fuck you. She's in the eighth grade. 
WILL I bet you love it when she calls you Mr. Chet. 
CHET She doesn't call me "Mr. Chet." She's not a foreigner. 
EXT. JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL - DAY 
The guys get to Will's car. Chet wraps up a call on his cell - 
CHET ...thanks so much, Mrs. Davis. I'll call you after I talk to the doctor. 
Chet hangs up. He is standing by the passenger door. He looks over the roof of the car at Will. 
CHET So, this is it? 
WILL This is what? 
CHET Once I step inside this car, I'm basically in a steel coffin with you and...that thing. And if it goes off, all they're gonna find in there are two charred bodies and pieces of a bomb. They'll assume we were driving to a government building to blow it up. It'll be all over the news. Next thing you now, some militia or Islam group is claiming us as members. My family will be humiliated. 
The door is shut. Will sits on the toilet lid. He has the jacket off and we get our first complete look at the vest. The actual structure is composed of hollow metal tubes. The wiring that runs throughout the vest is messy and complicated, purposely so, to scare anyone out of fucking with it. 
Will is in the process of trying to contort his arm so he can slide the vest off...no luck. 
WILL It's too tight! 
He is calling off toward the 
KITCHEN 
Where Chet is crouched in a corner, at the furthest point in the furthest room from the bathroom. He uses his laptop to look for websites on disarming a bomb. 
CHET What if we try to separate your shoulder? 
WILL (O.S.) Fuck you! 
CHET Well, all these sites say different shit. There's not a lot of consensus in the bomb disarming community. 
Will emerges from the bathroom, sliding the jacket back on. 
WILL This is pointless. 
Chet shuts his laptop. 
CHET I agree. We gotta call the cops, have them fly in the bomb squad or something. 
WILL We can't. These guys said they'd be following me. And I don't have a clue what they look like. For all I know, they're outside right now. They see the cops show up, they blow the vest and cut their losses. 
Will stares at Chet, hopelessly overwhelmed. 
WILL What do I do, man? What do I do now? 
CHET I don't know, Will...I guess you gotta rob the bank. 
WILL I haven't been inside a bank in three years! How the fuck am I supposed to rob one!? They wouldn't even give me a savings account! 
Will drops onto the couch and puts his head in his hands, fighting hysterics. Chet offers a stock reassurance - 
CHET It's gonna be okay. 
WILL No, it's not! I'm gonna blow up! That's way worse than getting stabbed or shot. At least some people survive that. No one survives being blown up. (MORE) 
WILL (CONT'D) No one is ever like, "Yeah, I heard Steve got blown up, tough break, but how's he doing now? Is he still in the Rec basketball league?" No of course he isn't, 'cause there's nothing left of Steve except a stain on the wall and a pair of fucking high tops! 
Chet looks on as his friend begins to sob. It's a crushing sight. Chet strides across the apartment - 
CHET Pull yourself together! 
- and attempts to give him one of those "get a grip" slaps. But Will flinches and Chet slaps him right on the ear. 
WILL Ow! Fuck! I think you popped my eardrum. 
CHET Sorry. Shit. I didn't mean to do that. But just listen to me now. You're not gonna die. You wanna know why? Because you know exactly how to rob a bank. 
WILL What are you talking about? 
CHET Point Break. 
WILL The movie? 
CHET Yes. That movie is like a how-to guide for bank robberies. You just bust in. Masks. Guns. Move fast. Stick to the tellers and don't bother with the vault. 
WILL Yeah...I guess it's pretty simple, right? And it's just a local bank. The Donner-Wells on Charles Road. 
CHET Really? I applied for a job there like a year ago. 
WILL You wanted to be a teller? 
CHET Yeah, so what? It's a good job. You get benefits. 
WILL Like what, a name tag? 
CHET What kind of benefits do you get? Free toppings? 
WILL That's really clever. No one ever said that shit to me before. Anyway, this is perfect. You know the whole layout of the bank. 
CHET Not exactly. They didn't hand me the security schematics with the application. But I sat in the waiting area for like 20 minutes. I know what the place looks like. 
WILL How many guards? 
WILL Uh, no. Why? 
REGISTER WOMAN Because this is usually what men buy before they rape someone, and I want to make sure you all use protection. 
WILL Lady, we're just...buying some stuff. 
REGISTER WOMAN Is that cash or credit for your rape kit? 
Will looks in his empty wallet, takes out a credit card. Chet grabs his hand. 
CHET We'll pay cash. 
INT. MINIVAN - DAY 
The van is parked. Dwayne sits behind the wheel. Metallica's "Ride the Lightning" begins to play loudly. 
DWAYNE You really fucked up this mix tape. 
Dwayne ejects the tape, tosses it at Jay in the passenger seat. 
DWAYNE We're not speed freaks knocking off a 7-Eleven. We're masterminding a heist here. 
JAY Sorry, Dwayne. That song just means a lot to me. 
Dwayne shakes his head. He turns and looks out the windshield: they're parked in the Walmart lot, watching the store entrance. 
DWAYNE I wish he would hurry his shit up. 
JAY You worried about that other guy he's with? 
DWAYNE No, man. He picked him up at a school. So long as there ain't any cops, he can take the whole town with him. I just want my money. 
Dwayne surveys the area. Something catches his attention: the bland strip mall across the street. There's a Blockbuster, Subway, and an empty space in between. Dwayne smiles. 
JAY What? You want me to run over to Subway, get us a couple sandwiches? 
DWAYNE If you had any vision, Jay, you'd know exactly what I'm thinking about right now. And it's not a sandwich. (BEAT) Look how well trafficked that shopping mall is. It's the perfect place for the tanning salon. 
Jay checks it out, nods. 
JAY Oh, you're totally right. 
DWAYNE I've been thinking about it, and I want you to start off working the counter. Sounds like a demotion, I know, but it's an important position. Because we're gonna be using code words and shit. For example, if a customer walks in and says he wants a tan, that just means he wants a tan. But if he says he wants a "deluxe tan," that means a blow job and you gotta get one of the girls in there to suck him off. You with me? 
JAY So far. But what if he wants a fuck? 
DWAYNE There's gonna be codes for everything: missionary, anal, black chicks. I got it all written down back home in my files. (MORE) 
DWAYNE (CONT'D) I'm not gonna bother getting into it with you right now, because you're supposed to be on lookout and you're no good at multitasking. 
JAY Okay. 'Cause they're about to get away. 
Dwayne spots the Mustang pulling away. 
DWAYNE Fuck. 
He throws the van into gear. 
INT. MUSTANG - DAY - MOVING 
Will navigates the streets. Chet is in the back seat, where he has newspaper spread out and is spray painting the air pistols, and much of the car, black. 
WILL Be careful, you're getting paint everywhere. 
CHET Are you really worried about your upholstery right now? 
WILL Yes, because if I survive this shit I'm quitting my job. That means I'll probably have to give up my place and I'll be sleeping in the back of my car, which you're covering in toxic paint. 
Chet touches up one of the guns, goes to flip it over. 
WILL That side isn't dry yet. You're about to ruin it. 
CHET It says it's fast drying. 
WILL Fast isn't the same as instant. You gotta let it sit for like 20 minutes. 
CHET How would you know? You do a lot of graffiti? 
WILL No, but I spray painted my bike last year after I got my license suspended. I didn't let it dry properly and I fucked it up. 
CHET Mr. Fisher is coming! 
As he looks for an escape - 
CHET Oh shit, oh shit. Are the keys in there? 
WILL No! 
Will hops out of the car. He rifles through the Walmart bag. 
CHET What are you doing? 
Will pulls the ski masks out of the bag, along with one of the freshly painted air pistols. 
WILL I'm doing what I have to. 
Will puts a ski mask on, then throws one to Chet. The door opens and MR. FISHER (60s) enters. Chet quickly pulls down his mask. It's backwards. 
Will levels the pistol - 
MR. FISHER Oh, Jesus! 
Mr. Fisher braces himself against a wall. Chet fumbles to turn his mask around. Will affects a deep voice - 
WILL Where are the car keys? 
MR. FISHER They're in my pocket! I'm just reaching in my pocket for the keys! 
WILL Quiet down and do it already. 
Mr. Fisher reaches into his pocket and produces the keys. They jingle as he holds them out in his trembling hand. Will snatches them. 
WILL Now listen, I don't want you to report this car stolen or anything until later tonight. Let's say 5 o'clock. 6 to be safe. 
MR. FISHER Sure. Anything you say. 
Will seems unconvinced. He looks to Chet, who shrugs. Will turns back to Mr. Fisher and gestures violently with the gun - 
WILL If you fuck with us, I swear, I will...I will shoot your son. Taylor. I know where he works. At the fucking travel agency. He's the douchebag with the bangs. 
MR. FISHER (STUNNED) Please no. I won't do anything. I won't. Just leave Taylor alone. 
WILL I'm gonna trust you. But if you call the police, there's gonna be an undertaker styling his stupid fucking bangs! (BEAT) Now open the garage door. 
Mr. Fisher hits a switch that raises the garage door. Chet grabs their stuff and gets in the passenger side. Will backs toward the driver side. 
WILL The car's insured, right? 
Mr. Fisher nods. 
WILL Okay. I feel better. Worse comes to worst, something happens to it, you can get a Honda. This thing doesn't even have airbags. 
MR. FISHER Please, just go. 
Will slides into the car and starts it up. 
EXT. THE FISHERS' GARAGE - DAY 
The car peels away. 
INT. DATSUN - DAY - MOVING 
The guys yank off their ski masks. 
CHET That old man's got a heart condition! You could have killed him! 
WILL My hand was forced! 
Chet tries to get comfortable in the seat. 
CHET Awesome. I'm stuck inside an even smaller car with you and a bomb. 
Will works the manual transmission. He steps on the gas. 
WILL This thing's got some pickup. 
CHET Could you just take it easy, we're doing fine on time. 
WILL I know...but there's one last stop we have to make. 
Zurman doesn't stick around for the rest. He turns and sprints away. 
As the guys make for the Datsun - CHET That was awesome. WILL He was tempting a desperate motherfucker. The guys jump in the Datsun and peel out as two more police cruisers race toward the bank. The cruisers change course and give chase. The Datsun blows right by the parked INT. MINIVAN - DAY Dwayne watches as the cars speed off into the distance. DWAYNE Holy shit! Our boy is causing some serious mayhem! JAY He's gonna get caught or killed. Dwayne whirls on Jay, punches him hard in the shoulder. DWAYNE Shut the fuck up! If you jinx this with your negativity, I'm gonna strap a bomb to your chest next. Jay massages his shoulder, pissed. 
JAY Oh, yeah, who's gonna build it? 
DWAYNE You are! 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Whiplash blur as the three cars race by, one after the other. Airborne leaves flutter in their wake. 
INT./EXT. DATSUN - DAY - MOVING 
Chet freaks out as they hurtle toward lunchtime traffic. Will weaves in and out of cars. 
CHET Shit! This is not cool! 
Will is wild eyed, punching the gas. Chet's head is on a swivel. Behind them: police cruisers in hot pursuit. Up ahead: the world rushing at them at 80 mph, populated by nothing but potential collisions that will result in a fiery death. 
CHET Maybe we should pull over and surrender. 
WILL I can outrun these guys. They're not the FBI, they're local cops. Just shut up and let me concentrate. I do this for a living. 
As they clip the side-view mirror off a Kia - 
CHET You don't do anything like this for a living! I am not a pizza, I am a man! 
The cruisers are gaining ground, throttles wide open. 
Will downshifts, spiking the RPMs into the red, as he banks a hard right and 
EXT. TOWN CENTER - DAY 
The Datsun explodes onto a crowded street. PEDESTRIANS crossing an intersection jump out of its way. 
The cruisers take the turn into town. One makes it. The other slams into parked cars. 
INT./EXT. DATSUN - DAY - MOVING 
Will jumps the curb to avoid slow-moving traffic, slams into a newspaper dispenser. It flips up onto the hood and crashes into the windshield, where it stays lodged. 
WILL Holy fuck! 
Will veers back into the street and blindly plows ahead as cars he cannot see swerve to avoid him. 
He finally slams the brakes, the momentum knocking the dispenser loose and launching it onto the sidewalk, scattering Pedestrians. 
Chet whirls around to see the cruiser flying right at them. 
CHET Go! Go! Go! 
Will steps on the gas. The light ahead turns red. 
CHET Stop! Stop! Stop! 
Will rolls the dice and blows through the intersection. He's lucky. The cruiser behind him is not. It's T-boned by traffic in a brutal, crunching collision. 
INT./EXT. DATSUN - DAY - MOVING 
The cruiser wreckage disappears in the rear-view mirror as Will floors it toward a green light. 
WILL That guy got fucked up. 
In the rushing moment as they cross the intersection, Chet glimpses the other cruiser barreling toward his side of the car from the perpendicular street. He has a millisecond, maybe, to process their impending doom, and then - 
The cruiser smashes into the back passenger side of the car. 
EXT. TOWN CENTER - DAY 
The Datsun is sent spinning like a fucking top. Its ruined back wheel catches, sending the car tumbling onto its roof. 
INT./EXT. DATSUN - DAY - MOVING 
Madness. The guys scream as the car continues to slide, upside down, out of control. As it slams into a row of parking meters, the world goes 
BLACK 
Will blinks back to reality. He's hanging, inverted, by his seat belt. The car is a pool of shattered glass. It twinkles up at him. Hours could have passed, but it's only been seconds. He sucks in air. Satisfied that he is, in fact, still alive, he looks over at - 
Dwayne and Jay make their way through the crowd, trying to see what's what. Dwayne approaches a RANDOM LOCAL. 
DWAYNE You hear what happened to the guys they were after? 
RANDOM LOCAL Sounds like they got away. 
Dwayne and Jay beam. 
EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY 
The guys are covered in sweat as they hike along, eyes on the lookout. They arrive at Will's parked Mustang. Will hugs the car. 
WILL I never thought I'd see you again. 
CHET I thought you hated this car. 
WILL It's actually not that bad. You know, as compared to that Datsun. The Mustang's got more comfortable seats. And it never would have flipped over. 
INT. MUSTANG - DAY 
The guys get in. They sit there for a moment, silent except for their heavy breathing. Will's eyes go to the garbage bag sitting between them. 
WILL There's a 100 grand in there. 100 fucking grand. Which we stole. From a bank. 
CHET I told a bunch of people I was gonna shoot someone. I was like "you fucking move, and I will kill you where you stand!" 
WILL I threatened to blow up a cop. (BEAT) And you never said "I will kill you where you stand." 
CHET I know. But shit did get pretty crazy. 
WILL Yeah, it did. 
Will starts to get a little emotional. 
WILL You know, there's no one I would have rather taken down a fucking bank with. I mean that. 
Chet smiles. 
CHET Me, neither. 
WILL And as for all that shit I said...and all that shit I did...I hope you can forgive me. We've been friends for so long, and I guess you hurt the people you're closest to the most. 
CHET I messed up, too. I'm a dude who slept with his best friend's ex- girlfriend, and destroyed his parents' marriage, and sat on the sidelines watching his downward spiral. I'm a shitty human being. But I'm glad you know that now, because you can accept me for who I am. 
WILL I do. I accept you. Because you accept me. 
Will goes in for a hug. Chet gets lost in the moment, before recoiling. 
CHET Woah! You still got a bomb on you. 
WILL You're right. Let's take care of that. But you owe me a hug. 
Will pulls the slip of paper Dwayne gave him from his pocket. 
WILL It's all gravy from here. 
Will takes out his cell and dials the number. 
INTERCUT WITH: 
EXT. TOWN CENTER - DAY 
Dwayne and Jay cross toward a McDonald's. Dwayne stops and answers his vibrating cell phone. 
DWAYNE This who I think it is? WILL (O.S.) Can't you hear the ticking in the background? DWAYNE You know, you're a pretty funny guy. WILL (O.S.) Thanks. I'm happy to entertain a complete psychopath. DWAYNE Now wait a second, you're the murderer. WILL (O.S.) What's that supposed to mean? DWAYNE One of those cops who wrecked his car chasing you...he ain't breathing no more. Will goes white, covers the phone and whispers to Chet - WILL We killed a cop. CHET You were driving! I'm just an accomplice! WILL They're gonna hunt us down and kill us. Cops don't take this shit lightly. 
CHET I bet he had like eight kids. We have to find them and support his family forever. 
Dwayne is holding back laughter. Finally bursts out. 
WILL (O.S.) What's so fucking funny!? 
DWAYNE I'm just messin' with you. You didn't kill anyone. How'd a moron like you manage to rob a bank? 
WILL (O.S.) Jesus! Can we just get this over with? Where do you want the money? 
DWAYNE There's a boarded up gas station out on Commerce Avenue, past the highway. Be there in 30 minutes. 
WILL (O.S.) I'll be there in ten. 
VAUGHN I don't have any code. 
Vaughn turns to leave. Will grabs his arm. Vaughn stops, looks purposefully down at Will's hand. Will draws back. 
WILL Listen, man, I just want the code. 
VAUGHN I don't know what the fuck you're talking about. 
WILL The code for the fucking bomb! 
Will opens his jacket. Vaughn takes a sudden step back. 
VAUGHN What kind of stupid motherfucker wears a bomb to a drop? 
WILL Your boss put this on me. 
VAUGHN I am my boss. 
WILL Then give me the code! 
VAUGHN Motherfucker, I don't know no goddamn code. Whoever told you I did, lied to you. Now step the fuck off, or I'll shoot you in the face so you don't explode and mess up my boots. 
Vaughn goes to leave again. Will runs ahead of him and gets in his way. 
WILL If you don't have the code, I want that money back. 
VAUGHN The only way you're getting this money back is if you kill me. 
WILL You don't know what I've gone through for that money! 
In an instant, Vaughn has his gun out, aimed at Will's head. 
VAUGHN Do I look sympathetic? Now step the fuck aside. 
INT. SENTRA - DAY 
Juicy looks on with interest as Vaughn holds Will at gunpoint. Then she spots 
EXT. BOARDED UP GAS STATION - DAY 
Chet creeping up behind Vaughn, from wherever he was hiding, clutching a large metal pipe. 
Juicy jumps out of the Sentra. 
JUICY Vaughn, look out! 
Vaughn whirls around toward Chet, just in time to have his gun arm smashed by the pipe. The weapon drops from his hand. Chet takes another swing, cracking Vaughn across the face. He howls, blood spraying, and topples over. Chet goes for another swing, when - 
Juicy jumps on him, wildly biting and clawing. 
Will grabs the back of Juicy's track jacket for leverage and flings her away. She hits the back of the Sentra and careens clear across the trunk. 
WILL Let's go! 
Will grabs the money. Chet kicks Vaughn's gun into the bushes. The guys break for the Mustang and get in. 
Juicy gets to her feet, runs right by a dazed Vaughn and after the car, which pulls out into the road and leaves her behind, screaming and cursing. 
INT. MUSTANG - DAY - MOVING 
Will's mind is racing. 
WILL What the fuck was that? 
CHET They tried to screw us. You're a liability. They were just gonna let you blow up. 
WILL Not with the money they won't. 
INT. JAY'S GARAGE WORKSHOP - DAY 
A tidy space, filled with various half-finished devices, action figures and heavy metal posters. A low mechanical hum registers. 
Dwayne sits on a stool in the center of the garage, while Jay carefully trims his hair with an electric clipper. Dwayne holds up a mirror to check out his work. 
DWAYNE Never comes out this nice when I do it myself. You might wanna take some more off the top, though. I wanna look real professional when I go down to the morgue to identify the body. 
Dwayne's phone chimes from a nearby counter. He grabs it, looks at the incoming number, slightly concerned. He answers - 
DWAYNE You drop the money yet? 
But Dwayne notices something...the phone in his hand is ringing. He puts it to his ear. The line connects - 
FEMALE VOICE (O.S.) Hello...who is this...hello...? 
Dwayne snaps the phone shut, looks to Jay, who tries to will the beads of sweat back into his pores. 
DWAYNE Who did I just call, Jay? 'Cause she sounded cute for a bomb. 
JAY (SWALLOWS HARD) Gina Kim. My seventh grade crush. Or whoever lives in Gina Kim's house now. 
DWAYNE Where's the number for the bomb? 
JAY In my head. I switched it out of your phone while you were taking a shit. You're out of control, Dwayne. 
DWAYNE I'm in perfect control! 
Dwayne charges Jay. Jay holds up the hair clippers like a weapon, flicks them on. Dwayne rips the cord out of the wall, uses it to yank the clippers from Jay's hand, then whips him with the cord. 
JAY Stop it! 
Dwayne goes to whip Jay again, but Jay moves like a jack rabbit and delivers a fierce kidney shot. Dwayne stumbles backward, falls onto the couch, groans - DWAYNE You asshole...I make you my partner and you pull this shit... JAY I'm tired of you pushing me around all the time! What kinda partner does that!? DWAYNE Fuck you...I'm gonna piss blood, aren't I? JAY That's what it said on the internet. Dwayne's phone rings in his pocket. DWAYNE Go on. Get it out for me. I can barely move. Jay pulls the cell from Dwayne's pocket...opens it and puts it to his ear so he can answer - DWAYNE Glad you came to your senses. INTERCUT WITH: EXT. BOARDED UP GAS STATION - DAY 
Vaughn has a rag pressed to his swollen, bloody face. Juicy is nearby, banged up and dirty. Vaughn yells into his cell - 
VAUGHN Who the fuck do you think you're talking to!? 
DWAYNE (O.S.) I honestly don't know. 
VAUGHN Let me give you a hint: your boy just jumped me, tossed my bitch like a rag doll and split with the cash. 
Dwayne realizes who's on the other line, recovers - 
DWAYNE That guy's not my boy. He's a dick. I'm sorry for all the, uh, confusion. 
VAUGHN (O.S.) Confusion? The only motherfucker that's confused is you. Apparently, you think you can fuck me and survive the day. 
DWAYNE I wasn't fucking you, I was fucking him. You gotta understand, you're like a pawn in a much larger game I'm playing here. 
VAUGHN (O.S.) Did you just call me a pawn, you stupid fuck!? 
DWAYNE I didn't mean it like that. I'm just juggling a whole lot of shit. 
VAUGHN (O.S.) I want my money. Right now. 
DWAYNE That may not be possible. (DELICATELY) I just want to put this out there, to keep you in the loop...but I may need to bump the hit. 
Vaughn paces, furious. 
VAUGHN This isn't a reservation at Sizzler! You don't "bump" it! I want you to bring me my money right now, to where I am standing in this shit hole town, bleeding from the motherfucking face! 
DWAYNE (O.S.) I don't exactly have the money...give me some time and - 
VAUGHN The deal's off! You just became the hit! 
Vaughn hangs up, tosses the bloody rag to the ground and screams in frustration. 
JUICY He lives with his daddy. You already got the address. 
INT. JAY'S GARAGE WORKSHOP - DAY 
Dwayne looks down at his phone. 
DWAYNE That's it. The assassin's gonna kill me now. I'm gonna die. Game fucking over. 
Dwayne cradles his arms around his wounded kidney, rocks back and forth, wallowing in defeat. 
JAY We can still get him the money. Try the pizza guy back. 
DWAYNE Why? So he can fuck around again, and I wind up dead, anyway? No. I'd rather just sit here. I want to die right here on this couch. 
JAY No. We're gonna get that money. Just like we planned. All we gotta do is get the leverage back. 
DWAYNE How do we do that? Pizza boy's obviously got some kinda death wish. 
Jay gathers his resolve. 
JAY We take the girl. The one he went to see. Then he won't try shit. 
Dwayne looks up at Jay with something not unlike awe. 
MAJOR You know, I saved a black man's life in the shit. So if I took yours I'd be even. 
VAUGHN I see where your son gets his common sense. (MORE) 
VAUGHN (CONT'D) But you might want to readjust your attitude, because I ain't fucking around. I want Dwayne. I don't know why you'd want to protect him, the motherfucker hired me to kill you. 
If this news has any effect at all on The Major, he doesn't show it. 
VAUGHN Just tell me where he is! 
Vaughn pulls back the hammer of his gun. 
MAJOR You think I'm scared of death? There's a whole generation of gooks that think I'm the grim reaper. 
Vaughn shakes his head. Almost imperceptibly, The Major repositions the hand with the pen in it. Vaughn is about to squeeze the trigger - 
But The Major beats him to it, clicking the pen, which is actually a pen gun. It fires a .22 caliber round into Vaughn's neck. He drops the gun and clutches the geyser of blood. 
The Major charges Vaughn, jumps on him and wrestles him to the ground, trying to jam the pen into the wound in his neck. 
MAJOR I'll ride you all the way to hell! I know exactly how to get there! 
Vaughn reaches for his gun. His fingers curl around it and he whips it across The Major's face, knocking him backwards. 
Vaughn scrambles to his feet, gun pointed at the felled Major. 
VAUGHN What now, old man!? You can't kill me! None of y'all can kill me! 
The Major looks up at Vaughn, once again face to face with a loaded weapon. 
MAJOR Go on and - 
BANG! 
The Major goes limp, one searing hole in his chest. 
Vaughn clasps a hand to his neck to staunch the flow of blood. He steps over the The Major's body and continues upstairs. 
INT. BATHROOM, NICE HOUSE - DAY 
Vaughn rifles through the cabinets, dumps all of the first aid supplies into the sink. He gets to work on his wound. 
INT. DWAYNE'S ROOM, NICE HOUSE - DAY 
The locked door is kicked open. Vaughn, neck crudely bandaged, flicks on the lights and looks around the childish room. Chinese Fighting Fish swim in a large tank, seem to stop and look out at him like guard dogs. 
Vaughn ransacks the place. He finds a desk drawer locked. Takes out his gun and blows it open. 
Vaughn pulls a stuffed file folder out of the drawer. Flips through it. It's full of details about Dwayne's plan, the tanning salon, etc. 
VAUGHN Motherfucker has lost his mind... 
He finds a map of the town in the file. Three locations are highlighted: the bank, the boarded up gas station, and the radio tower. PUSH IN on the radio tower. 
Vaughn stuffs the map into his pocket. He stops before leaving the room, turns and shatters the fish tank with the butt of his gun. Water spills out and the Chinese Fighting Fish flop onto the floor. As Vaughn lifts a boot to stomp them - 
EXT. ROAD - DAY 
Will and Chet are still arguing - 
CHET Look at the upshot, while you're behind bars you can finally finish your degree. If I was there, too, it would just be a distraction. 
WILL Great idea, Chet. Thanks a lot. I'll just sit here and figure out a fucking major. 
Will stews. After a beat, his hand goes to his pocket. It's vibrating. He pulls out his cell. 
WILL Hey, it's them. 
Will answers - 
WILL You ready to talk now? 
INTERCUT WITH: 
INT. MINIVAN - DAY - MOVING 
Dwayne drives with his cell pressed to his ear. Jay keeps watch on Kate in back. She is blindfolded, hands bound behind her back with duct tape. 
DWAYNE (INTO PHONE) Yeah, I'm ready to talk. I want my money. Meet me back at the radio tower in 50 minutes. 
DWAYNE How much time you got left? 
Will takes off the jacket and tosses it to the ground. He looks at the timer. 
WILL Ten minutes. 
DWAYNE Damn. Maybe we should just wait around for the money shot. 
The guys meet in a clearing. Dwayne nods at the bag. 
DWAYNE That the money? 
WILL Maybe. Where's the girl? 
Dwayne grins. 
DWAYNE In the van. Maybe. 
WILL Get her out here. You're wasting time. 
Will grips the bag close to him. 
Dwayne whistles. The minivan door opens and Jay steps out. Strapped to his back is the frame pack we saw at his workshop. A long tube connects the pack to the handle of a metal pipe- like device in his hand. 
Jay helps Kate, still bound and blindfolded, out of the van. They approach Dwayne and take up position behind him. 
KATE Will, are you there? 
WILL I'm here. It's gonna be okay. 
DWAYNE This is a fucking tearjerker. 
WILL Just let her come over here. 
DWAYNE I will. But you should know, my associate over there is packing a flamethrower. 
Jay aims the metal device he has been holding. He hits a button and a pilot light comes on. 
JAY (FLAT) Just do what we say. Don't mess around or anything. 
DWAYNE Unless either of you can outrun a 25- foot flame. (gestures to gun in his belt) Or a bullet. 
Dwayne roughly pulls Kate away from Jay and shoves her forward. Will grabs her, pulls her blindfold off and pushes her behind him. 
WILL Get back. 
DWAYNE I gave you the girl. Now give me the money. 
WILL How about we get the code out of the way first, since this bomb happens to be ticking so close to all of us. 
DWAYNE Fair enough. 
Dwayne pulls a slip of paper from his pocket. 
DWAYNE (TAUNTING) You ready to be a free man? 
WILL Just give it to me! 
DWAYNE 
Will keys in the numbers. The timer freezes and the lock at the hinge opens. Will carefully extricates himself from the vest. He lays it down on the ground and steps away from it. His shirt is drenched in sweat from where the bomb sat. 
Will takes a final look at the money bag, then throws it to Dwayne. He looks inside, smiles. Jay takes a peak. 
DWAYNE It's so fucking pretty, ain't it? 
JAY Yeah. It's awesome. 
Dwayne looks up at Will. 
DWAYNE Okay, you can get out of here now. 
WILL I actually have this sneaking suspicion that once we turn around, you're gonna put a bullet in both of our backs - and this is just a guess - burn our bodies. 
DWAYNE They say great minds think alike. And in this case, so do we. 
WILL I figured as much. That's why I got a gun pointed at you, too. (LOUDLY) I got a sniper in the bushes locked on you right now. 
DWAYNE Do I look that dumb? 
It doesn't make a sound for two reasons. The second being that it's out of bullets. 
Dwayne fumbles for his own hardware. Muzzle flash. 
Vaughn drops to his knees. Pulse snatched from him. 
SOUND SLAMS BACK to the tune of Jay's screams. Dwayne looks over to see his friend in flames, flailing his arms and shrieking. Dwayne's head snaps to the other side, where he sees the Mustang's tires peel. He tears off his mask, frantically looks around. The money is gone. 
DWAYNE No!! 
Jay disentangles himself from the backpack, the source of the flames, but his clothes are now ablaze. In his frenzy, he somehow manages to string together two coherent words - 
JAY Dwayne! Help! 
Dwayne gets to his feet as the Mustang roars down the driveway. He looks to Jay, then to his minivan. Dwayne's face: Two roads diverge in a wood. Which to take? 
DWAYNE Goddamn it, Jay! 
Dwayne sprints over to Jay, rips off his jacket and uses it to beat the flames down. 
DWAYNE Stop, drop and roll! 
Jay hits the deck. Dwayne continues fighting the flames, finally falls on top of Jay with the jacket spread and smothers the last of them out. 
Jay looks up at Dwayne with puppy dog eyes. 
JAY You came back for me...you said you never would. 
DWAYNE You didn't hesitate back there, Jay. You did good. 
Jay smiles. Flames overtake the field all around them. 
DWAYNE I'm gonna go put a bullet in that motherfucker and get our money. Think you can get outta here? 
JAY Yeah. Go get him. 
Dwayne hurries toward the minivan. Jay stumbles up to his feet and limps off toward the woods. 
EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
The Mustang travels away from the rising flames. 
INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT - MOVING 
Will's face is a mess of dirt, sweat and dried blood. He and Chet stare ahead, completely shell-shocked. 
Kate looks from one of them to the other. 
KATE Uh...I just got kidnapped. 
CHET Yeah, that was totally Will's fault. In case you want to factor that in while you're mulling over the whole relationship thing. 
WILL I'm very sorry about the kidnapping. This is me, taking responsibility for it. Growing up. Like a viable life partner. 
CHET This man has spied on you in the nude before! 
WILL What? No, I didn't. 
CHET He's lying. He's trying to build a relationship on a foundation of lies. And it won't stand. 
KATE I just got kidnapped! Can we talk about that!? 
Something catches Will's attention: a set of headlights rapidly growing larger in the rear-view mirror. 
INT. MINIVAN - NIGHT - MOVING 
Dwayne's speedometer is buried past 100 mph. His eyes burn with intensity. 
INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT - MOVING 
Will hits the gas. 
WILL Oh, shit. One of those dudes is definitely not dead! 
Chet and Kate look out the back window. Chet screams - 
CHET Hurry up! He's already on us! 
EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
The body emits a low groan. Dwayne rolls it over. His father's face is white, he's lost a lot of blood, but he isn't totally spent yet. He struggles to speak - 
MAJOR Dwayne... 
DWAYNE What happened to you? 
MAJOR Some guy...said you hired him to kill me. 
DWAYNE Dad, I...I'd never... 
MAJOR Look at you...lip quivering like you're getting fucked...be a man. 
DWAYNE I am a man! I killed you, didn't I? Now I'm gonna use your money to open a tanning salon where they let you fuck the chicks. 
This stirs something in The Major. 
MAJOR You mean...like those whorehouses...in 'Nam...I used to tell you about? 
Dwayne softens at the recollection. 
DWAYNE Those were great bedtime stories. 
The Major nods. Opens his hand. Reveals a cordless phone. Dwayne looks to the bloody streaks down the hall, leading to the phone table. The Major dragged himself the whole way. 
MAJOR Medics are late...probably a couple lazy spicks...you tell 'em I said so...all right, son? 
DWAYNE Sure thing, pop. 
The Major looks up at Dwayne's bruised face, as if for the first time. 
MAJOR Hell of thing...I think I may...actually respect you now. 
Dwayne's eyes well up. He reaches out, cradles his father as he expires. It's like a very bloody, white trash version of the Piet. Dwayne sobs uncontrollably, until - 
He drops his father and pound-pound-pounds his chest in some approximation of a life saving resuscitation. 
DWAYNE Get up, you pussy! Come on, soldier! 
PULL AWAY as Dwayne pounds the body and distant sirens grow nearer. 
FADE OUT: 
BLACK. THE DARKNESS RIPPLES... 
Into waves. It's the ocean, long past sunset. PULL BACK to find a lone figure staring out at it, sitting on 
EXT. BEACH - NIGHT 
Will. Shirtless. Could be anywhere. 
Chet approaches and sits beside him. 
CHET Fucking nine dollars to use the internet. 
WILL And? 
CHET Police think it was that black guy. They found some kind of map in his car. And I'm sure racial profiling played a part. 
WILL But nothing about us? 
CHET Nope. Guess it's time to head back. 
WILL I was thinking we'd stick around a little a longer. 
CHET Why? So you have more time to delude my sister? 
WILL Yes. And it'd be easier if you gave us five fucking minutes alone. 
Chet stares out at the ocean for a beat. 
CHET You really think she's into you? 
WILL (SWALLOWS HARD) I kissed her last night. No tongue. Then you walked in. 
Chet just nods. Will gets up. 
CHET You're gonna go fuck my sister now, aren't you? 
WILL I'll be thinking of you the whole time. 
