Written by 
Pamela Pettler 
Short story by 
Shane Acker 
SEQ. 05 - PROLOGUE 
The Focus Features logo appears on screen and we slide INTO the "O" in Focus. 
Stock dissolves from 35mm to 16mm.        BLACK & WHITE.    GRAINY, like OLD DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE. 
SCIENTIST'S VOICE Experiment 208, day 20... 
INT. SCIENTIST'S LAB - DAY 
We see an early incarnation of a MACHINE (this will be the inner brain of the FABRICATION MACHINE). We see the scientist, in a white coat. 
We pull back to see the Scientist is playing a complicated MULTI-LEVEL 3-D chess game on a MULTI-LEVEL GAME BOARD with the MACHINE. The Scientist makes an elaborate multi-level move. The Machine reaches an arm out into the chess game but then malfunctions and strews the game everywhere. 
We pull back further to see the back and legs of the DICTATOR, with black-uniformed soldiers flanking him. The regime's emblem can be seen on the uniforms. 
DICTATOR Useless. 
SCIENTIST Please.   Give it a chance. 
We're on the machine, which is clicking and jerking as it malfunctions. 
DICTATOR (V.O.) One more.      That's all. We turns to leave. We hear the clicking of boots as the soldiers accompany him out. 
We see the scientist's dejected face as he comes towards the camera to turn it off. 
CUT TO: 
BLACK 
INT. SCIENTIST'S LAB - NIGHT 
The grainy footage rolls again; we see the scientist moving away from the camera (having just turned it on). 
The lab is shadowy, late at night. We see his worktable for the first time, covered with discarded sketches, a furiously filled-in journal, and pieces of failed machinery (the floor is also similarly littered). The TALISMAN sits on the worktable. Nearby is a small old-fashioned tiny little box. 
SCIENTIST (tired, but dictating to keep the documentary record complete) My last possible solution.... (muttering to himself) It must work... 
He gently brushes his fingers over the little box as though for good luck. He picks the TALISMAN up off the table. He moves over to insert the talisman into the port of the machine. 
His back to us, he faces the machine. We see him putting something over his face (but only from behind). 
There is a sudden FLASH OF GREEN LIGHT and the machine JOLTS, and then suddenly, starts up...lighting up, electricity crackling, parts moving in smooth coordination, etc. 
The scientist waits, watching. The machine continues to run. Its arms move smoothly, almost curiously. 
The scientist puts the device covering his face down and gets up and comes towards camera. 
We see the camera's POV as the scientist comes towards us: CLOSE on the scientist's face, which is exhausted, cheeks sunken, eyes wide, pupils dilated. 
Pull back to show the machine purring, suddenly full of a new sort of energy. Something new has happened. 
The scientist switches off the camera and: 
RADIO (V.O.) Reports are coming in... they've breached the Northern walls of the city... 
The radio voice is DROWNED OUT BY EXPLOSIONS. D 
ISSOLVE TO: 
TITLE CARD #4 
INT. SCIENTIST'S LAB - ANOTHER DAY 
RADIO (V.O.) An announcement from our Chancellor! 
DICTATOR'S VOICE (on the radio) Comrades, I have lost control. The Machine is now our enemy. We need to join forces to fight against it. 
We hear EXPLOSIONS and SCREAMS outside. 
We see the scientist cobbling together another SMALL BURLAP DOLL, a little more evolved. 
He labels it "5," then makes notes in a journal. 
TITLE CARD #5 
SCIENTIST his voice a mere whisper NOW) Five so far....I can't get them right... 
ISSOLVE TO: 
TITLE CARD #6 
INT. SCIENTIST'S LAB - ANOTHER DAY 
RADIO (V.O.) (through static) Gas masks are being distributed... ALERT: beware.... 
We see the scientist desperately grabbing bits and scraps for one last doll. He is like a skeleton, almost no energy left. 
ADIO (V.O.) (cont'd) ...deadly gas.... 
he radio voice dies out.   We hear nothing but STATIC. 
ITLE CARD #7 
H 
H 
C 
The scientist totters over, makes a note in his journal. He clutches the little box, and suspends this last doll with a rope in a strange contraption. 
SCIENTIST a feeble whisper) My last one... this one, finally, must work... it must.... 
TITLE CARD #8 
The SOUND of the scientist collapsing to the floor. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
SEQ. 020 - Attic 
SEQ. 020 - INT. WORKSHOP - DAY 
The thin strand of rope stretches... stretches... and 
He takes it and looks at it.     He gives 9 a look of surprise. 
(CONT'D) But how strange.... muttering to himself as he turns the Talisman in his hands) Yes, he was always drawing this... exactly like this... how strange... 
hey both stare at the TALISMAN. 
Suddenly, a  is heard OFFSCREEN. 2 looks up IN HORROR. He grabs his spear. He pushes 9 away almost fiercely. 
ALT: 
2 (CONT'D) (firmly, to 9) GO! 
SEQ. 030 - Cat Beast Attacks 
SEQ. 030 - EXT. WASTELAND - DAY 
2 points forcefully to an old rusted can. 
2 runs into the can. stands, ready to attack. 
9 watches 2, wondering what is coming. Then from behind him, a large claw of a mechanical figure settles softly next to 9's can. He tries to call out to 2... 
And from behind 2 enters-- 
A HIDEOUS CAT BEAST. 
t is a nail and razor-studded predatory Machine with a cat skull-shaped head, its body laced with bones, nails and razors. 9 now understands 2 was trying to protect him. 
GASPS as he turns and sees it. The Cat Beast lets out a roar and claws at 2, KNOCKING him over and losing his spear. 
looks on with horror. 
H 
T 
2 attempts to reach for his spear but the Beast holds him down with its razor-sharp feet. 
The Beast is attracted to the Talisman. It picks it up with one of its jagged claws and looks at it quizzically. 
cringes.    His movement makes his hiding place teeter, creaking. 
he Cat Beast WHIRLS at the sound. Picking up 2's struggling body, the Cat Beast stalks towards the noise, right up to 9's hiding place, sniffing through its hollow nostrils. 9 cringes in terror. The Cat Beast probes with one of his claws INTO the tin can. 9 recoils. The claws do not find him and retreat. 9 is relieved. 
A beat, then: 
9 feels himself violently LIFTED UP and SMASHED. 
We see the Cat Beast has picked up the entire tin can and is smashing it to get at what's inside it.   Failing, it hurls the tin can aside. 
9 is almost knocked out. Trying to stay conscious, he struggles towards the entrance of the can. 
is POV: through his haze and through the broken edges of the opening to the can, he sees the Cat Beast GRAB the Talisman and the struggling 2 in his sharp-toothed mouth, and disappearing into the smoky mist. 
9 can just make out, in the distance, the silhouettes of 
THREE TALL SHAPES. 
(MUTTERING) The others... 
CUT TO: 
1 carries himself with authority. He wears a red cloak, and a strange mother of pearl and wire hat bound together as an almost papal-like headpiece, and carries a staff made from an old gear, with a bell attached. 
pulls at 9 with his staff, displaying the number on his back. 
hat's this? 
turns and glares at 5 like a general glaring at a new private, expecting an explanation for a misdeed. 5 cringes back, obviously intimidated by 1. 
... I found him.... in the emptiness.   He saw-- 
1 HOOKS 5 by the neck with his staff, cutting off his speech. 
What? What were you doing out there? 
Y 
I saw him from the watchtower and I thought... 
ou'll lead The Beast straight back to us! How many times have I told you? 
The Beast--that's what took 2!   If we hurry we could save him-- 
(CURTLY) If the Beast took him, that's the end of it. 
But he was still alive-- 
5 turns with sudden hope to 9.   2 might still be alive? 
No, we have RULES. 
1 smashes his staff against the ground. 
Immediately, a knife comes through the curtain revealing another RAGDOLL: a large ragdoll, with the number "8" on his arm. 
(CONT'D) (TO 8) Our new guest seems confused. (condescendingly, to 9) Perhaps I can help you achieve some clarity. 
8 is very large, and designed for great strength. He is almost as evolved in his design as 9, but his design favors primarily brute force. 
He has armored himself with curved pieces of tin and metal. He carries the blade of a large kitchen knife, with a nail he has attached for a handle. On his back he has slung another knife--half of a scissors; the scissors handle loops up above his head. 
T 
T 
C 
1 leaves. 8 taps his knife in his hand and motions for 9 and 5 to follow.  They follow. 
UT TO: 
SEQ. 050 - Clock Tower 
SEQ. 050 - INT. CATHEDRAL - CONTINUOUS 
They walk through the nave and plane up overhead. 
5 taps 9 covertly. 
(whispering, hopefully) He was still alive? Really? 
I think so-- 
They hurry off, increasingly enveloped by the YELLOW CLOUD. 
The yellow CLOUD TRANSITIONS into STEAM... 
(V.O.) (cont'd) The gas killed everything. 
ND FLASHBACK. 
SEQ. 057 - 9 Meets 6 
SEQ. 057 - INT. CATHEDRAL/CLOCKTOWER - CONTINUOUS 
The steam is rising from the small thurible in the CLOCK TOWER. 
1 (V.O.) I led us here... 
1 is now standing at the thurible with a torch in his hand. 
1 (V.O.) (cont'd) ...to sanctuary. And here we waited for the war to end. 
T 
T 
He puts his hand around 9's shoulders and walks him over to the other side of the room. 
(CONT'D) Slowly, the world became silent. 
1 and 9 walk over to a picture of the Cat Beast hanging on the wall. 
1 (CONT'D) The only thing that remains now is the Beast. 
1 faces 9 as the torch slowly fades. 
1 (CONT'D) So we stay hidden and we wait for it, too, to sleep. 
he torch burns out. 9 looks at 1. 
But where did it come from?   Why is it hunting us? 
Questions like that are pointless. We need to protect ourselves. Keep ourselves out of danger. 
But one of us is in trouble... he could still be rescued... turns and walks to a tattered calendar page on the wall with the days 3, 4, and 7 crossed off. 
oo many of us have already been lost. 
1 crosses 2's number off the calendar with the burnt end of his torch. 
No! You're not listening. He may still be alive! Why won't you try to save him? Why won't you-- 
1 angrily SMACKS HIS STAFF ON THE FLOOR. 
O 
Enough! Enough of this madness! (to 5, annoyed) Go to the watch tower and take our guest with you. 
5 meekly immediately obeys, gesturing to 9 to follow him. 
We hear a strange WHISPERING SOUND, and CAMERA, instead of following 5 and 9, stays behind and moves in on a shadowy little area. There, we see 6. 6 is ink-stained and has a strange quality, as though he sees and hears things inside his head that only he experiences. He has a SMALL SKELETON KEY around his neck, and his fingers are made of PEN NIBS. He is drawing on a piece of paper and WHISPERING TO HIMSELF. 
muttering, whispering) The source.... The source... 
9 (CONT'D) (COAXING) Come with me. I can't do it alone. 
is terribly torn. He wants to, but he's never done anything like this before. He's always done as he's told. He hesitates: 
(HESITATING) I... I... (MORE) 
(he can't odo 'd) he can't 5(c nt it, DEFY 1) I can't. 
9 looks directly into his eyes. He knows how 5 loved and admired his mentor and everything he did. He understands that 5 would like to be like 2, to do what 2 would have done. 
(GENTLY) But wouldn't he have come for you? 
9 waits, hopefully. But 5 looks away. He wants to do it, but he doesn't have the nerve. 9 nods, compassionately. He turns away. 5 hesitates, looking down, then: 
(more determined) Wait! 
5 grabs the map off the wall and rolls it up.   He walks towards 9. 
5 (CONT'D) You're going to need a map. 
9 and 5 smile at each other. 
CUT TO: 
SEQ. 070 - Wasteland 
SEQ. 070 - EXT. CATHEDRAL -- DAY 
9 and 5 look behind them at the Cathedral as they start to make their journey to find 2. 
CUT TO: 
SEQ. 070 - EXT. WASTELAND -- DAY 
5 and 9 pick their way through the rubble. They have traveled miles from the Cathedral. Mist swirls in front of them, obscuring their path. and 9 look around constantly, on the alert for the Cat Beast. Piles of rusted, broken metal machines, broken skeletal bones, exploded vehicles tipped into craters, and crumbling, disintegrating buildings surround them. 
H 
T 
9 looks up and 5 follows his gaze to 2's STAFF stuck in a pile of rubble atop a hill. 
5 hurries up the hill. 9 follows him. 5 turns to FIND 2's hat lying in the dirt. He bends down to pick it up, brushing the dust off the top. 5 looks sadly at 2's broken hat. 
(QUIETLY) You looked out for him? 
(SIMPLY) He looked out for me.    He taught me. 
he spoon-light falls off.      5's face is filled with grief. 
(CONT'D) Why was he out here alone? 
He slumps.    9 puts his hand on 5's shoulder, reassuring him. 
We can still find him. 
e stands up, determinedly. 5 hesitates, but then, his face filling with hope, gets up too. 5 puts 2's hat on his quiver. 9 offers 2's staff to 5 but 5 gestures to 9 for him to hold it. 
They continue on, through the debris and devastation.     A storm is starting to come up. The wind howls loudly. 
(BITTERLY) Why was he out here alone? 
A terrible grief suddenly comes over him as he remembers what has happened to 2. 
puts his hand on 5's shoulder, bracing him. 
(FIRMLY) Yes. He will. 
9 is conveying with his simple words that he believes 2 IS still alive and he WILL be impressed when he sees the lightstaff. 
9 shines the light to gesture "this way." 
5 smiles tremulously at 9, almost more grateful for his sympathy and support than necessarily believing him. He follows 9 to the mouth of the trench. 
The camera pans over to reveal catlike scratchmarks on a side wall indicating this is the same trench we saw the Cat Beast travel through earlier. 
5 recoils, but 9 puts a calming hand on him again, then puts both hands on the lightstaff and enters the trench. 5 takes a deep breath and follows. 
T 
A 
SEQ. 075 - INT. TRENCH - LATER 
9 and 5 continue down the trench, both looking around with great caution and nervousness. 
s they come around a corner they see-- 
The CAT BEAST. 
9 AND 5 
5 springs into action shooting his weapon at the Beast.    9 shines his light up to see... an old hanging gas mask. 
hey look at each other and LAUGH as they continue down the trench. 
9 AND 5 (cont'd) 
The mask DROPS behind them and they SCREAM and run away. 
9 AND 5 (cont'd) 
CUT TO: 
A SHADOW (WITH A BIRD SKULL HEAD) AT THE ENTRANCE TO THE TRENCH 
Someone is watching them. 
SEQ. 075 - INT. CLIMBING UP A "HILL" OF SAND BAGS - LATER 
5 and 9 climb up a hill of sand bags.. 
They come around a corner. 
(DISCOURAGED) We've been here before... it's no use. 
steps over and pushes some debris aside.    Suddenly they can see they are right next to.... 
T 
T 
L 
9 gets cornered but swipes the Beast and manages to escape. 9 jumps a heap of debris but stumbles. 5 and 2 pull him up to higher ground. 
shoots his crossbow at the Cat Beast, shattering his eye. 
2 manages to hide in a tube. 
9 and 5 run away but get stuck at the end of a table. 
The Cat Beast slashes his claw at them. 
T 
S 
S 
T 
They climb onto another piece of debris, only to encounter the Cat Beast, now in front of them. 
he Cat Beast slashes a claw out and knocks them over.    The Cat Beast moves closer and closer. They are doomed. 
uddenly there is a strange rhythmic moaning sound.   The Cat Beast turns, distracted. 
We pan over and see a mysterious creature that seems to be half ragdoll, half bird, with a bird-skull head swinging a weapon over its head.   THIS IS 7. 7 releases the weapon--a strap of leather with weighted shot at either end. The weapon flies through the air with a low whooshing sound and strikes the Cat Beast, entangling it. 
7, 5, and 9 now charge the Cat Beast. 5 shoots his crossbow, entangling the Beast's paw and hobbling it. 9 and 2 both LURE THE CAT BEAST IN DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS, deliberately goading and further causing it to become entangled in the machinery.   7 now leaps up over the Beast and brings the full weight of her spear down on the Cat Beast's neck. The head of the Beast comes off and lands at their feet. now pulls off her bird-skull helmet. 
You weren't lost-- 
You've come back! 
I never left. YOU finally decided to join the fight. 
he hands 5's map back to him. 
9 comes over with her shield (lost during the fight).    7 looks 9 over. 
7 (CONT'D) I think I know why. 
They move towards her but she turns and looks at 9.     2 and 5 nod proudly towards 9. 7 nods. 
hey all look at the fallen Cat Beast. 
2 is poking at it: 
N 
Rusty... hacked together... shoddy pile of scrap. 
They all turn to leave. 5 and 7 support 2 on either side of him, helping 2 along.   9 hangs back to look at the machine again, and suddenly sees the TALISMAN, lying on the floor. 
5, 7, and 2 have continued on without him and do not see him as he picks it up. 
looks at the strange object with ENORMOUS CURIOSITY. He turns it and see the RUNES on the side of it. He turns and inspects it closely.   He turns and discovers, on the machine, a PORT with the SAME RUNES. 
(blurting out) Look! 
The others now turn to see him. They see him holding the talisman close to the machine's port... about to experimentally put the talisman INTO the port. 
No!   Stop!       NO! 
HEARTBROKEN) My poor old friend... 
7 puts a consoling hand on his shoulder. 
(shaking her head) I know. turning on 9) What? What on earth were you thinking? 
(just as devastated) I didn't know... I'm sorry... 
He stares in horror at the factory. 
9 (CONT'D) What WAS that? What is it doing? 
hey are interrupted by a loud whirring sound from the machinery inside the factory. They whirl around, then stare at each other, horrified. 
(CONT'D) What will it do now? 
5 shakes his head miserably. 
7 looks at them. 
Let's go. 
C 
She strides off. 9 follows. 5 turns, grieving, towards the factory, head bowed. He hesitates, then goes after 9 and 7. 
UT TO: 
SEQ. 090 - The twins 
SEQ. 090 - EXT. LIBRARY - DAY 
9, 5, and 7 enter into a building through a hole that has been put in a side wall. 
SEQ. 090 - INT. LIBRARY - DAY 
They enter the ruins of an old library. 
Giant stacks of random, tattered, stained books, globes, and celestial devices tower over them. Dusty rays of light beam down through broken glass skylights, casting filtered light on shelves and shelves of old tomes, papers, and crumbling artifacts. 
9 stops to look at a beautiful painting, showing life and the world before the apocalypse. 
(whispering to himself) So beautiful... 
7 grabs the lightstaff from 9 and shines it towards a pile of books. A glimmer of two sets of eyes appear and disappear. 
7 holds her hand up, gesturing to 9 to hold still. & 4 emerge from their globe.   5 smiles. 
delighted, relieved) They've been here? The whole time? 
The twins venture out. 
(SURPRISED) Twins? 
A 
T 
(to 5 and 9, explaining) They've been hiding here. Lost in the past. 
and 4 approach 9 with curiosity.   They communicate by beaming ideas to each other.   They look at 9, sizing him up. They beam their ideas to each other excitedly. 9 recoils. 7 puts a reassuring hand on 9. 
T 
S 
(TO 9) The thing!       Show them. 
9 quickly sketches out a drawing of the TALISMAN and shows it to the twins. 
3 and 4 chatter, trying to analyze and catalogue the drawing of the Talisman. They shake their heads: they don't recognize it. 
eeing it as a drawing, 5 is startled. 
5 (CONT'D) Wait! 6... he always draws that. used to keep the drawings... with his notes.... 
9 looks at 5. 
The drawings... would they still be there? In 2's old workshop? 
Yes. (slightly embarrassed) I saved everything. 
hen we'll go back.       Perhaps the answer is there. 
5 looks alarmed and looks over at 7.      7 shakes her head. 
I think the answer is there. 
She points out towards the factory and strides off, dauntless, fine, and proud. The twins chatter unhappily, beaming flickering lights to each other. 
9 looks at 5.    5 nods and they set off in the other direction. 
CUT TO: 
SEQ. 120 - Winged Beast creation 
SEQ. 120 - INT. FABRICATION FACTORY - SAME TIME 
Inside the factory, a very quick shot of the Fabrication Machine reaching its arms out and gathering things. It welds metal pieces. It grabs an enormous black-and-red Dictator's flag and rips it in half.   [  We do not see yet what it is creating.] 
CUT TO: 
SEQ. 130 - Confrontation 
SEQ. 130 - INT. 2'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT 
9 and 5 sneak into 2's workshop. A dirty moonlight filters through the air. 9's light is off. 
, familiar with the layout, locates 2's stash of 6's drawings. The pages are dotted with 2's annotations and drawings; he was obviously trying to figure out why 6 kept imagining this object and what it meant. 
and 9 bend over the drawings. They are unable to see clearly in the murky darkness. 9 looks around warily, then switches on his light. 
The light now reveals 8 LOOMING IN THE SHADOWS. 
8 SEIZES them and escorts them out. 
SEQ. 130 - INT. CATHEDRAL/CLOCKTOWER - SAME TIME 
1, sitting on his throne, glares in righteous anger as 5 and 9 stand in front of him. You awakened what? 
He gets onto his feet angrily. 6 hunches over one of his sketches, muttering to himself. 1 (CONT'D) You fools! I warned you! 
8 is sharpening his knife on the side. He warned you. 
9 spots a SMALL LEDGE next to a stained glass window. 
He opens the side of the bucket and gestures that they should jump. 
The others hesitate, but then 9, 6, and 5 jump out of the bucket onto a swinging rope, and onto the ledge. The Winged Beast plummets down the shaft after them. 
SEQ. 140 - EXT. CATHEDRAL/CLOCKTOWER - CONTINUOUS 
The ragdolls squeeze through a small crack in the stained glass emerging onto a ledge overlooking the Cathedral's roof. 
9 sees 1 and 8 running across the roof and points to 5 and 6 to look down there. Down on the roof, 1 and 8 see 5, 6, and 9. 1 pushes past 8 and runs farther out, towards the front of the Cathedral. 8 follows. S uddenly, the Winged Beast SMASHES through the glass behind them. It struggles to get through the window but can't quite fit. 
6 is very vulnerable out there. 
9 turns to 5. 
Take him inside. 
now climbs out on the gargoyle purposefully. 
The Winged Beast FLIES UP into the air, circling lazily.    1 and 8, running on the top of the roof, are very exposed. Hawklike, the Winged Beast sails towards them. 
8 steps up to defend 1. He flips his salt-shaker helmet down over his face as armor, pulls out his scissor knife and stands his ground... waiting... waiting for the Winged Beast to soar in closer... 
And then, at the last possible moment, he HURLS his scissor knife at the Winged Beast. It flies through the air and catches in the Beast's propeller. 
Knocked off balance, the Beast swoops down. 1 ducks out of the way but it knocks 8 off his feet. 8 slides down the sloped edge of the roof, towards GAPING HOLE. 
S 
Just as 8 is about to fall into the hole, he catches on to the edge. His other blade plummets through the hole as he hangs, desperately... his grip SLIPPING... 
9 catches up to where 1 is. 
SEQ. 140 - INT. CATHEDRAL - SAME TIME 
6 and 5 run down the banisters towards the crashed plane.     6 seems to pull 5 in a particular direction. 
EQ. 140 - EXT. CATHEDRAL - CONTINUOUS 
The Winged Beast circles around and sets its harpoon tail to shoot. 1 squints into the sun as the Winged Beast, backlit, swoops down towards them. He sees a glare come from the tin roof. 9 gets an idea.    He gestures to 1 to help him. 1 scowls, but has no alternative but to help him. 
9 peels back a piece of the roof, with 1 helping him.   The ROOF'S 
GLARE 
beams right into the eyes of the Winged Beast, momentarily blinding it. T he Beast flinches just as it FIRES its harpoon tail at them. Blinded by the glare, it MISSES and almost hits 8. 
The harpoon imbeds itself into a rafter inside the Cathedral. 
SEQ. 145 - Wing 
SEQ. 145 - EXT. CATHEDRAL/CLOCKTOWER - CONTINUOUS 
8 falls onto and then slides down the harpoon's line, swinging into the Cathedral and landing on the wing of the airplane embedded in the side of the Cathedral, right next to 5 and 6. 8's weight on the harpoon's line has pulled it more and more taut... 
The Winged Beast is pulled hard into the roof and slides down, knocking into 1 and 9. 
1 and 9 PLUNGE into the Cathedral and onto the plane wing, where 8 catches them in midair before they hit the wing. 
I 
A 
1 begins to climb up the side of the wing, using dangling 9 and 7 as a ladder. 
Perched on top of 7's staff, 1 reaches up for 8, who is crouched on the edge of the buttress. He grabs 8's hand, gesturing imperiously to 8 to pull him up. looks at 7 urgently, nodding to her. She gets it immediately and grabs 1's leg, stopping him. You fool! We can still save ourselves! 
The plane teeters down to a 90 degree angle. 5 and 6 look up at the rest of the ragdolls from farther down the wing. 5 is concerned and almost panicked. 6 is almost zen-peaceful, as though he can foresee it will be all right. 
looks around and sees the rope tied around 7's waist. 
(TO 7) Your rope. 
7 throws it down to 9 who ties it to his own waist. The plane tilts... it's hanging even more precariously now... about to fall out of the side of the Cathedral entirely... 
9 suddenly jumps down into the flames just as the plane starts to fall. 7 shouts with stress. 
The plane EXPLODES as it hits the ground, smoke rising from the crash. The rope pulls taut, and after the smoke settles we can see 9 dangling with 5 and 6. 
8 pulls the hanging chain of ragdolls up and onto the buttress fragment. 
s 1 recovers himself and straightens his hat, he glances up... towards the smouldering clock tower... 
CUT TO: 
Seq. 155 - Sanctuary lost 
SEQ. 155 - EXT. LIBRARY GARDENS - TWILIGHT 
We can see, in the distance, the Cathedral, on fire. 
8           I 
O 
The ragdolls have come to the library. Embers from the burning cathedral drift down like burning snowflakes. 
(BROKEN-HEARTED) Oh... my sanctuary... 
The others try to avoid the embers. 9 moves purposefully towards the library. 1 stands, mourning his sanctuary. His staff is charred and ruined. He lets it drop. 8 takes 1's arm and urges him to follow the others. 
CUT TO: 
Seq. 157 - Seamstress being constructed 
SEQ. 157 - INT. FABRICATION FACTORY - SAME TIME 
Inside the factory, a shot of the Fabrication Machine reaching its arms out and gathering remnants and detritus that we will see later as part of the SEAMSTRESS. [The Machine is clearly tethered to the Factory.] 
ne of the machine's arms discovers 2's body.    The arm seems horribly interested. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
Seq. 160 - Library 
SEQ. 160 - INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT 
, 5, 1, 8, and 6 have come to a clearing in the debris outside the globe. 6 has dropped to the floor and is drawing his pattern. 1 looks angrily up at the glass ceilings. 
t's not safe here! 
shakes his head, agreeing with his boss. 
Seq. 164 - Confrontation 
SEQ. 164 - INT. THE GLOBE - SAME TIME C LOSE on a DRAWING OF the TALISMAN'S RUNES in ancient illuminated manuscript. Pull back to see the twins have found this and are showing it to 9. 5 and 6 crowd around.           6 is clutching his drawing of the talisman. 
7 looks out of the globe, intuitively startled, her scout's sense unhappy. She senses something. 
9 looks at her, but also now studies the drawings and the writings around them that explain them.   He studies the drawings of the RUNES. 
studying the drawings, CAREFULLY) An alchemist's ability to draw animus into the unanimated... 
He turns the page and sees a drawing of the Talisman. 
(CONT'D) Again! 
He gazes at the picture as though drawn to it. 
9 (CONT'D) What is it? What can it be? 
6 comes over and recognizes his drawing. 
(trying to help) The source...! 
(turns urgently to him) What? What are you trying to say? 
(helplessly trying to articulate something) The first room-- 
1 now appears out of the darkness.   He sees the manuscript and the drawings of the runes. 
'S VOICE (ANGRILY) Dark science. 
We whip pan over and see 1 standing in the entrance to the globe. 
(ANGRILY) What good does this useless rubbish do us? Forget it! 
H           W 
He seems unusually agitated. 
9 moves towards him, curiously. 
hat do you know? 
e comes closer to 1. 
(WHISPERING) The source... the source... 
1 turns and meets 9's gaze unflinchingly. We have a moment of admiration for the old soldier's toughness. But he speaks now with a strange bitterness. He gestures around at the library, at the ruins of humanity's civilization. 
(BITTERLY) I know enough to leave their ancient evils to moulder. Look what they have left us with. Leave it be, I say! (ANGRILY) But you. Always asking questions, so many pointless questions-- probing, pushing-- spitting out the words, beginning to rant and rave a little) like 2--he always had to know--too MUCH-- 
(SUDDENLY) I was right! You did send him out to die! 
No! 
He was old!   He was weak! 
1 suddenly realizes what he's said.      He collects himself and stands tall, defending himself. 
1 (CONT'D) Sometimes one must be sacrificed for the good of many. 
LEAPS angrily at 1, pulling her blade to 1's neck. 
She RISES UP and points her sewing needles at 1... we see 8's limp body trapped in her belly. 
The other ragdolls leap into action. 
chops off the tail and with it 2's carcass but then is thrown to the side and trapped as a cascade of books fall on her. 
9 manages to grab 1 who is partially sewn on to the seamstress but can't free him. 
The seamstress lashes out towards them. 
5 fires an arrow and hits the Seamstress's eye, blinding her. She turns to flee, dragging 1 with her. 1 struggles in mortal terror. 
H 
A 
5 pulls the blade from 2's staff from his quiver and throws it to 9. 9 catches the blade and cuts the threads away from 1's body, trying to free him unsuccessfully as 1 struggles. 
t the very last moment, they manage TO CUT 1 LOOSE. But the seamstress suddenly darts one of her claws out, GRABS 7, and SLITHERS OFF out through the library [ALT: through part of a drainpipe in the bottom of the fountain] with 8 still attached to her belly and disappears. T he other ragdolls run after her but it is futile; she is gone. 
(HORRIFIED) No! No! 
SEQ. 168 - Burial and Regrouping 
SEQ. 168 - INT. LIBRARY/FOUNTAIN - CONTINUOUS 
The ragdolls stand in the bottom of the fountain, where remnants of water still linger, and water dribbles into the drainpipe at the bottom of the fountain [ALT: next to the fountain]. The coin in 1's crown falls to the ground. He sits down heavily. 
The twins emerge, eyes wide. They've seen the whole thing. They look with alarm at everyone, and sadly, at 2's carcass. 
looks in the direction of where the seamstress disappeared. 
I have to get her back!   I have to go after her! 
It's too late. 
e has a strange, sad look on his face.    He looks in the same direction. 
(CONT'D) (SADLY) It killed 8... it'll kill her too. 
It didn't kill him. (THINKING) (MORE) 
C 
T 
It's taking (cont'd) to the 9 them back Machine. 
The twins look up and nod their agreement. While the others have been talking, they have found a book cover and have lain 2's body on it. They now put the sword on top of 2 like a fallen soldier and put his hands on his chest holding the sword. 
9 (CONT'D) (URGENTLY) We have to go--all of us.   We have to rescue them-- 
(nodding soberly) --and destroy the machine for once and for all. 
just bows his head.    He's still mourning 8.   9 gives him a compassionate look. 
They turn towards the twins, and see them pick up 1's coin and place it on top of 2's face. They see that the twins have prepared 2's body for burial. 
hey all bow their heads. The twins now slowly send 2 floating down the remnants of water in the drainpipe at the bottom of the fountain. 
5 pulls out the piece of burlap from 2's back with his number on it. He hands it to 9. 
INT. FACTORY - SAME TIME 
9 darts from hiding place to hiding place inside the darkened factory, moving towards the Fabrication Machine. 
He spots the half-blinded Seamstress and watches in HORROR as he sees that the Seamstress is giving 8 up to the Fabrication Machine. 9 is too late to do anything to stop the Machine from sucking 8's soul. 
here is a bright GREEN GLOW as 8's soul is sucked, and in the sudden illumination, 9 sees 7. She is sewn into the Seamstress--but is still alive! 
NGLE on 9 as he realizes she is still alive and he can still rescue her! From his hiding place he looks around for a way to rescue her. He inspects the machinery near him. He sees a LEVER and GEARS. He looks at his LIGHTSTAFF. He then spots a remnant of the FABRIC used to create the Winged Beast. We see he is formulating a plan. He darts his hand out to drag the fabric towards him. 
NGLE on the Fabrication Machine as it begins to power back up after taking 8's soul. 
NGLE on the Seamstress. She turns to get 7, and give her to the Fabrication Machine. We see the TERROR and DEFIANT FURY in 7's eyes, but she is immobilized and can do nothing. 
Suddenly the Seamstress hears a SOUND.   She whips around. P OV through the Seamstress's damaged eye: a MOVEMENT in the shadows. 
he Seamstress, distracted from her morbid mission with 7, slithers towards the movement. 
In the shadow we see a RAGDOLL with GLOWING EYES. 7 sees this and registers recognition, relief, and also TERROR at what will be 9's fate. But she is unable to move or speak and now, just as 9 could only watch 8's soul being sucked out, 7 can only helplessly watch as the Seamstress slithers closer and closer to its prey. We see the misery on 7's face. 
The seamstress raises her needles and STRIKES the ragdoll, sewing wildly. 
T 
T 
The ragdoll SWINGS OUT from a string attached to a lever. The lever now moves down (because of the weight of the ragdoll) and SWITCHES on machinery. Gears start to turn and we see the ragdoll is attached and begins to drag the trapped seamstress in, arms first. 
he gears CRUNCH the ragdoll. 7 FLINCHES... but then her expression turns to amazement as she suddenly sees it is not a ragdoll at all but is 9'S LIGHT-STAFF DRESSED IN FABRIC. Instinctively, she looks up, a sudden hopeful look on her face... just as 
9 SWINGS IN and lands on the SEAMSTRESS, tearing a hole in her back. He slides down the length of her body, FREEING 7. 
7 and 9 fall to the ground as the gears now CRUSH THE SEAMSTRESS. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FACTORY - SAME TIME 
5, 1, 6, and the twins crouch behind the barrel. We see they have built two paths of wooden boards leading down to the entrance of the coal chute, have dug a trench under the barrel, and have placed a long bar of metal beneath the barrel. 
(hoarse whisper) PULL! 
They all pull down with all their weight. The barrel lifts and teeters, then tips and RACES DOWN THE HILL. At the bottom, it launches off the boards, spinning into the air and landing on the rails to the coal chute with a sparking crash. 
he ragdolls race down after it. 
The barrel rolls and comes to a stop right at the mouth of the coal chute. 
SEQ. 185 - Seeker Drone 
W 
SEQ. 185 - EXT. THE FACTORY - CONTINUOUS 
5, always looking around warily for the seeker drones, directs 1, 6, and the twins to conceal themselves behind the barrel. He anxiously stares down the tunnel. 
here are they? 
The twins' eyes flicker anxiously.      1 looks down the tunnel as well. 
It's been too long.    We should take action. 
Suddenly he looks up.      He gets it! 
(CONT'D) The First Room! 
SMASH CUT TO: 
SEQ. 210 - Return to the Workshop 
W 
H 
H 
H 
C 
SEQ. 210 - INT. ATTIC WORKSHOP - DAY 
9LOSE ON THE SHUTTER banging in the Attic Workshop. is staring at it, then looks around the Workshop. 
e sees the Scientist on the floor.    He recognizes him. 
He looks up and climbs up onto the table. 
e sees the machine that he fell out of.      He sees diagrams. 
He sees a journal, with drawings and thoughts. The drawings include: the original machine... the talisman... sketches of the dolls... the diagram that we saw in the Library manuscript... 
e looks further and sees a strip of film. Curiously, he picks it up, and now sees it's feeding into a rickety old movie projector which now TURNS ON and we see -- 
THE DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE that we saw being made in the TITLE SEQUENCE [It can be the exact same footage, or can be slightly altered if necessary for our uses here; if we still want to hear the radio it should be mixed in very low, so we are aware of it but it doesn't interfere with the scientist's dialogue. This is constructed so the scientist can be in V.O. only until the end, but if possible we can also see the back of the scientist in the first few pieces of footage]. 
We HEAR the scientist's voice and we realize the Scientist WAS ADDRESSING THE DOLLS. 
e see first, THE FOOTAGE OF THE SCIENTIST MAKING 1 and hear the scientist: 
SCIENTIST'S VOICE (MUTTERING) It had such promise... my first creation... 
We see, on the table, a drawing of the original machine, as the Scientist assembles the raw materials of 1. Sounds of WAR in the b.g. 
SCIENTIST'S VOICE (cont'd) (BROKEN-HEARTED) ...but it was taken... and bent to such evil... 
We see him making 1. 
I 
SCIENTIST'S VOICE (cont'd) ...so little hope remains... that is why I create you... 
The footage crackles out, then RESUMES. 
Now we see the FOOTAGE OF THE SCIENTIST MAKING 5. 
SCIENTIST'S VOICE (cont'd) (much more weakly) I am unable to reverse the transfer process... my life force diminishes with each one of you... it is all right... you will thrive... 
Tenderly, he puts 5 together. 
The footage crackles out, then RESUMES. 
Now we see the footage OF THE SCIENTIST MAKING 9...   with louder, more explosive sounds of WAR in the b.g: 
He... he used his own soul. 
and the twins look at him in awe and surprise.   1 seems strangely unmoved. 
(CONT'D) That's why the machine is hunting us. It was warped, reprogrammed to hunt humanity. It, and the machines it made, killed everything. Except us. 
They stare at him. 
9 (CONT'D) We're all that remains. 
Suddenly the ground starts to shake. We hear the machine approaching. 1, 7, and the twins run to the missile. 
9 (CONT'D) No!    Don't destroy it! 
What? It's hunting us! It'll never stop! You said it yourself! 
No. First we have to get them back. 
It's impossible! 
She continues loading the missile with 1. 
It isn't.    I have an idea. 
Enough of your ideas!      We need to load the weapon! 
SEQ. 222 - The machine attacks 
SEQ. 222 - EXT. THE WASTELAND - CONTINUOUS 
The Fabrication Machine appears from BEHIND THE CANNON. The ragdolls are CAUGHT OFF GUARD and scramble to get away just as its claw SMASHES down, DEMOLISHING THE CANNON. 
The dolls fly back from the blast. 9 is the only one standing. 9 deliberately walks towards the Machine. 7 rushes over, trying to pull him away. 
(trying to get back up) Stop! You're a fool! 
The Machine swipes at 9 with its claw. 7 tries to stop it from getting 9. The Machine sends her flying. She lands badly and can't get up immediately. The Machine regroups, then begins to re-approach 9. 9 stays put. 
INSISTENTLY) It powers down right after it takes a soul!   Just for a few seconds. 
he twins chatter frantically.   7 struggles to get up. 
No it doesn't! 
Yes, it does. You'll see.      I'll let it take my soul. Then after.... take the device. 
e points to the talisman on the machine.       He stands as the Machine approaches. 
But what if you're wrong? (begging him) Don't do this-- 
must. 
The Machine raises its claw to grab 9 when suddenly 9 is KNOCKED ASIDE and -- 
1 TAKES HIS PLACE. 
9 (CONT'D) No!    What are you doing?   Stop! 
T 
W 
