A SERIOUS MAN 
Written by 
Joel Coen & Ethan Coen 
June 4th, 2007 
White letters on a black screen: Receive with simplicity everything that happens to you. 
-RASHI 
FADE IN: 
AGAINST BLACK: SNOWFLAKES 
The flakes drift lazily down toward us. Our angle looks straight up. Now an angle looking steeply down: the snow falls not quite dead away to collect on a foreground chimneypot and on the little shtetl street that lies maplike below us. It is night, and quiet, and the street is deserted except for one man who walks away from us, his valenki squeaking in the fresh snow. He carries bundled branches on one shoulder and has a hatchet tucked into his belt. 
We cut down to street level. The man walks toward us, bearded, and bundled against the cold. Smiling, he mutters in Yiddish-the dialogue subtitled. 
MAN What a marvel... what a marvel... 
HOUSE INTERIOR As its door opens and the man enters. 
MAN Dora! 
VOICE Yes... 
The man crosses to the stove with his bundle of wood. The voice continues: 
. Can you help me with the ice? The man dumps the wood into a box by the stove as his wife enters with an ice pick. . I expected you hours ago. 
MAN You can't imagine what just happened. I was coming back on the Lublin road when the wheel came off the cart thank heavens it was the way back and I'd already sold the geese! 
WIFE How much? 
MAN Fifteen groshen, but that's not the story. I was struggling to set the cart upright when a droshky approaches from the direction of Lvov. How lucky, you think, that someone is out this late. 
WIFE Yes, very remarkable. 
MAN But that's the least of it! He stops to help me; we talk of this, we talk of that-it turns out this is someone you know! Traitle Groshkover! 
His wife stares at him as he beams. He takes the stare as a sign that she can't place the name. . You know, REB GROSHKOVER! Pesel Bunim's uncle! The chacham from Lodz, who studied under the Zohar reb in Krakow! 
Still she stares. Then, quietly: 
WIFE God has cursed us. 
MAN What? 
REB GROSHKOVER is still chuckling. 
REB GROSHKOVER Oh my. Oh my yes. What nonsense. And even if there were spirits, certainly... He thumps his chest. I am not one of them! 
WIFE Pesel always worried. Your corpse was left unattended for many minutes when Pesel's father broke shiva and left the room-it must have been then that the Evil One- She breaks off to spit at the mention of the Evil One. -took you! 
REB GROSHKOVER is terribly amused: 
REB GROSHKOVER "My corpse!" Honestly! What a wife you have! 
WIFE Oh yes? Look, husband... 
She steps forward to the Reb, who looks enquiringly up at her. They were preparing the body. Pesel's father shaved one check... 
As his eyes roll down to look at her hand, she draws it across his smooth right cheek. Then he left the room. He came back, and shaved the other... 
She reaches across to the other cheek, REB GROSHKOVER's eyes following her hand- You were already gone! 
-and drags her hand across. A bristly sound. 
REB GROSHKOVER laughs. 
REB GROSHKOVER I shaved hastily this morning and missed a bit-by you this makes me a dybbuk? 
He appeals to the husband: It's true, I was sick with typhus when I stayed with Peselle, but I recovered, as you can plainly see, and now I-hugh! 
The wife steps back. REB GROSHKOVER looks slowly down at his own chest in which the wife has just planted an ice pick. REB GROSHKOVER stares at the ice pick. The wife stares. 
The husband stares. Suddenly, REB GROSHKOVER bursts out laughing: What a wife you have! The husband can manage only a shocked whisper: 
MAN Woman, what have you done? 
REB GROSHKOVER again looks down at his chest, which again moves him to laughter. He shakes his head. 
REB GROSHKOVER Why would she do such a thing? 
He looks up. I ask you, Velvel, as a rational man: which of us is possessed? 
WIFE What do you say now about spirits? He is unharmed! 
REB GROSHKOVER On the contrary! I don't feel at all well. 
And indeed, blood has begun to soak through his vest. He chuckles with less energy. One does a mitzvah and this is the thanks one gets? 
MAN Dora! Woe, woe! How can such a thing be! 
REB GROSHKOVER Perhaps I will have some soup. I am feeling weak... 
He rises to his feet but totters. Or perhaps I should go... 
LARRY No no, I- 
CLIVE Or perhaps I can take the mid-term again. Now I know it covers mathematics. 
LARRY Well, the other students wouldn't like that, would they. If one student gets to retake the test til he gets a grade he likes. CLIVE impassively considers this. 
CLIVE Secret test. LARRY wraps a hand wearily over his eyes. 
LARRY . No, I'm afraid- 
CLIVE Hush-hush. 
LARRY No, that's just not workable. I'm afraid we'll just have to bite the bullet on this thing, CLIVE, and- 
CLIVE Very troubling. He rises. . very troubling... He goes to the door, shaking his head, as LARRY looks on in surprise. He leaves. LARRY stares at the open door. The secretary outside, her back to us, types on. LARRY. looks stupidly around his own office, shakes his head. He picks up the phone message from Sy Ableman-"Let's talk"-and dials. As he dials his other hand wanders over the papers on the desktop. There is a plain white envelope on the desk. LARRY picks it up as the phone rings through. A ring is clipped short and a warm basso-baritone rumbles through the line: Phone Voice Sy Ableman. 
LARRY Hello, Sy, LARRY Gopnik. 
SY 
(MOURNFUL) LARRY. How are you, my friend. LARRY picks idly at the envelope. 
LARRY Good, how've you been, Sy? 
Inside the envelope: a thick sheaf of one-hundred-dollar bills. 
SY Oh fine. Shall we talk LARRY. LARRY reacts to the money. 
LARRY (into phone) What?! Oh! Sorry! I, uh-call back! He slams down the phone. 
. CLIVE! He rushes out the door, through the secretarial area, and into the hallway, and looks up toward the elevators. Empty. He looks at the stuffed envelope he still holds. He goes back to the departmental office. The secretary sits typing. She glances at him and, as she goes back to her typing: 
SECRETARY Sy Ableman just called. Said he got disconnected. 
BATHROOM DOOR A hand enters to knock. Man's Voice Out in a minute! SARAH, the sixteen-year-old girl who has just knocked, rolls her eyes. 
SARAH I gotta wash my hair! I'm going out tonight! 
VOICE Out in a minute! 
SARAH Jesus Christ! She stomps down the hall. 
KITCHEN Judith, a woman of early middle age, is at the stove. SARAH enters. 
SARAH W is Uncle Arthur always in the bathroom? 
JUDITH He has to drain his sebacious cyst. You know that. Will you set the table? 
SARAH Why can't he do it in the basement? Or go out in the garage! 
LARRY A what? What are you talking about? She turns to go, shaking her head, peeved: 
JUDY You always act so surprised. As she leaves: I have begged you to see the Rabbi. 
FADE IN LARRY has fallen asleep at the kitchen table, face-down in a pile of blue books. Cold blue light sweeps across him and he looks up. 
A short, balding middle-aged man in flannel pyjamas and an old flannel dressing gown stands in front of the open refrigerator holding an open jar of orange juice. He tips the jar back to drink, his free hand holding a balled-up towel to the back of his neck LARRY stares at him. 
FADE OUT 
BLEGEN HALL LARRY enters the departmental office. His eyes are red-rimmed and dark-bagged. He has beard stubble. The department's secretary wheels her castored chair away from her typing. 
SECRETARY Messages, Professor Gopnik. He takes the two phone messages. 
HIS OFFICE LARRY looks at the messages: WHILE YOU WERE OUT Dick Dutton OF Columbia Record Club 
CALLED. REGARDING: "2°d attempt. Please call." WHILE YOU WERE OUT Sy Ableman 
CALLED. REGARDING "Let's have a good talk." A knock brings his look up. 
LARRY Yes-thanks for coming, CLIVE. CLIVE Park enters the office. 
. Have a seat. LARRY uses a key to open the top left desk drawer. He takes out the envelope. We had, I think, a good talk, the other day, but you left something that- 
CLIVE I didn't leave it. 
LARRY Well--you don't even know what I was going to say. 
CLIVE I didn't leave anything. I'm not missing anything. I know where everything is. LARRY looks at him, trying to formulate a thought. 
LARRY Well... then, CLIVE, where did this come from? He waves the envelope. . This is here, isn't it? CLIVE looks at it gravely. 
CLIVE Yes, sir. That is there. 
LARRY This is not nothing, this is something. 
CLIVE Yes sir. That is something. A beat. . What is it. 
LARRY You know what it is! You know what it is! I believe. And 
you know I can't keep it, CLIVE. 
CLIVE Of course, sir. 
LARRY I'll have to pass it on to Professor Finkle, along with my suspicions about where it came from. Actions have consequences. 
CLIVE Yes. Often. 
LARRY Always! Actions always have consequences! He pounds the desk for emphasis. In this office, actions have consequences! 
JUDITH LARRY, the children know. Do you think this is some secret? Do you think this is something we're going to keep quiet? SARAH enters. 
SARAH Dad, Uncle Arthur is in the bathroom again! And I=m going to the hole at eight! She hits DANNY on the back of the head. 
DANNY Stop it! 
LARRY SARAH! What's going on! 
DANNY She keeps doing that! 
LATER LARRY sits in a reclining chair in the living room, head back, listening to Sidor Belarsky on the hi-fi. On top of the music is a hissing-sucking sound. There is also the sound of a pencil busily scratching paper. We cut to its source: Uncle Arthur sits scribbling into a spiral notebook, his free hand holding the end of a length of surgical tubing against the back of his neck. The tube leads to a water-pik-like appliance on an end table next to him-the source of the sucking sound. After a long beat of listening to the music, LARRY speaks into space: 
LARRY Arthur? Uncle Arthur does not look up from his scribbling. Uncle Arthur Yes. LARRY continues to stare at the ceiling. 
LARRY What're you doing? Still without looking up: Uncle Arthur Working on the Mentaculus. Long beat. Music. Scribbling. 
LARRY Any luck, um, looking for an apartment? More scribbling. Uncle Arthur No. The doorbell chimes. 
FRONT DOOR LARRY enters, glances through the front door's head-height window, and-freezes, one hand arrested on the way to the doorknob. His point-of-view: framed by the window, yellowly lit by the stoop light, a human head. A middle-aged man, a few years older than LARRY. A fleshy face with droopy hangdog features, a five-o'clock shadow, and sad Harold Bloom eyes. LARRY opens the door. 
LARRY Sy. Sy, entering, thrusts out a hand. His voice vibrates with a warm, sad empathy: 
SY Good to see you, LARRY. He is a heavy-set man wearing a short-sleeved shirt that his belly tents out in front of him. In his left hand he holds a bottle of wine. 
LARRY 
(TIGHTLY) I'll get Judith. 
SY No, actually LARRY, I'm here to see you, if I might. He shakes his head. . Such a thing. Such a thing. 
LARRY Shall we go in the... He is leading him into the kitchen but Sy, oblivious to surroundings, plows on with the conversation, arresting both men in the narrow space between kitchen sink and stove, and invading LARRY's space. 
SY You know, LARRY-how we handle ourselves, in this situation-it's so impawtant. 
LARRY Uh-huh. 
SY Absolutely. Judith told me that she broke the news to you. She said you were very adult. 
LARRY Did she. 
SY Absolutely. The respect she has for you. 
LARRY Yes? 
SY Absolutely. But the children, LARRY. The children. He shakes his head. . The most impawtant. 
LARRY Well, I guess... 
SY Of coss. And Judith says they're handling it so well. A tribute to you. Do you drink wine? Because this is an incredible bottle. This is not Mogen David. This is a wine, LARRY. A bawdeaux. 
The lights are out. Very quiet. Uncle Arthur lightly snores. LARRY still stares at the ceiling. He shifts his weight. The aluminum frame of the cot squeaks. He shifts again. Another creak. LARRY fishes his watch from the jumble of clothes on the floor: 
KITCHEN LARRY, in his underwear, spoons ground coffee into the percolator. Uncle Arthur snores softly on in the other room. From outside, a dull thunk. LARRY pulls back a curtain. Next door, Gar Brandt is going down the walk, wearing camouflage togs and camo billed cap, a rifle bag slung over his shoulder. He is carrying an ice chest, its contents clicking and sloshing. The boy Mitch, also wearing camo clothes and cap and also with a rifle bag, has just closed the front door. He now lets the screen door swing shut behind him and follows his father down the walk to the car in the driveway. The twitter of early morning birds. Gar's voice, though not projected, stands out in the pre-dawn quiet: 
GAR Let's see some hustle, Mitch. 
CLOSE ON THE NOTEBOOK Its top sheet, densely covered by equations, has a heading: The Mentaculus Compiled by Arthur Gopnik After a beat LARRY's hand enters to turn the page. The second page is also densely covered with equations. 
VOICE 
LARRY? This brings LARRY's look up from the Mentaculus. We are in LARRY's office. Standing in the office doorway is Arlen Finkle. 
LARRY Hi Arlen. Arlen Finkle LARRY, I feel that, as head of the tenure committee I should tell you this, though it should be no cause for concern. You should not be at all worried. LARRY waits for more. Arlen seems to need a prompt. 
LARRY Okay. Arlen Finkle I feel I should mention it even though we won't give this any weight at all in considering whether to grant you tenure, so, I repeat no cause for concern. 
LARRY Okay, Arlen. Give what any weight? Arlen Finkle We have received some letters, uh... denigrating you, and, well, urging that we not grant you tenure. 
LARRY From who? Arlen Finkle They're anonymous. And so of course we dismiss them completely. 
LARRY Well... well... what do they say? Arlen Finkle They make allegations, not even allegations, assertions, but 
I'm not really... while we give them no credence, LARRY, I'm not supposed to deal in any specifics about the committee's deliberations. 
LARRY But... I think you're saying, these won't play any part in your deliberations. Arlen Finkle None at all. 
LARRY Um, so what are they... Arlen Finkle Moral turpitude. You could say. 
LARRY Uh-huh. Can I ask, are they, are they-idiomatic? Arlen Finkle I, uh... 
LARRY The reason I ask, I have a Korean student, South Korean, disgruntled South Korean, and I meant to talk to you about this, actually, he- Arlen Finkle No. No, the letters are competently-even eloquently written. A native English-speaker. No question about that. 
LARRY Uh-huh. Arlen Finkle But I reiterate this, LARRY: no cause for concern. I only speak because I would have felt odd concealing it. 
LARRY Yes, okay, thank you Arlen. 
Arlen Finkle Best to Judith. LARRY answers with a wan smile. He looks down at the Mentaculus. 
HEBREW SCHOOL EXTERIOR Day. Somewhere inside the school a bell rings. Its doors swing open and children emerge. Our angle is down a line of school busses, each with the the same stenciled Hebrew lettering, waiting to ferry the children home. We are tracking toward the busses to steepen the rake. As children sort themselves out and climb into their respective vehicles, the track brings the nearest bus into the fore- ground. It noisily idles with its signature squeaks and stress sounds, its low coughing engine ominously rumbling. Children start climbing on. 
MINUTES LATER Inside the bus, now moving. Engine noise bangs in louder and air roars in through open windows. We are on the driver, a sallow man in a short-sleeved white shirt with earlocks and a yarmulke. He pitches about, stoically wrestling with the wheel and gear shift as the vehicle bucks. The pitching children. Somewhere, Jefferson Airplane plays. 
DANNY I gotta get my radio back. Ronnie Nudell Maybe the fucker lodged it up his fucking asshole. 
DANNY I gotta get it back. Or Mike Fagle's gonna pound the crap out of me. Ronnie Nudell 
Way up his asshole. 
DANNY And I'll still have to get my sister the money back or she's gonna break four of my records. Twenty bucks, four records. Howard Altar How do you buy all those records. Where do you get your funds. 
IN THE HOUSE As LARRY enters. Judith (ofj) 
LARRY? 
LARRY 
(PROJECTING) Yeah? Judith (ofj) Did you go to Sieglestein Schlutz? No, I-not yet. 
LARRY. Appointment Monday. The thud of a car door outside. SARAH heads for the front door, pulling on a jacket. LARRY is surprised. . Where are you going? 
SARAH I'm going to the hole. 
LARRY At five o'clock? He looks out the front-door window. Four girls of SARAH's age are coming up the walk 
from the car. All have dark hair and big noses. 
SARAH We're stopping at Laurie Kipperstein's house so I can wash my hair. LARRY pulls open the door just as the doorbell rings. From the four dark girls: 
VOICES Hi, Mr. Gopnik. 
LARRY You can't wash it here? From somewhere in the house, Jefferson Airplane starts. As she brushes past LARRY: 
SARAH Uncle Arthur's in the bathroom. 
VOICE Out in a minute! Judith enters. 
JUDITH Are you ready? 
LARRY Huh? 
JUDITH We're meeting Sy at Embers. 
LARRY I am? 
JUDITH Both of us. I told you. 
EMBERS 
LARRY has his arms pinned at his sides by hugging Sy Ableman. 
SY LARRY. How are you. 
LARRY Sy. 
SY Hello Judith. 
JUDITH Hello Sy. Once Sy releases LARRY, all seat themselves at Sy's booth, Judith next to Sy, LARRY facing. 
SY Thank you for coming, LARRY. It's so impawtant that we be able to discuss these things. 
LARRY Move out! Where would I go?! 
SY Well, for instance, the Jolly Roger is quite livable. Not expensive, and the rooms are eminently livable. 
JUDITH This would allow you to visit the kids. 
SY There's convenience in its fava. There's a pool- 
LARRY 
Wouldn't it make more sense for you to move in with Sy? Judith and Sy gape at him, shocked. After a long beat: 
JUDITH 
LARRY! 
SY LARRY, you're jesting! 
JUDITH LARRY, there is much to accomplish before that can happen. Sy is sadly shaking his head. 
SY LARRY, LARRY, LARRY. I think, really, the Jolly Roger is the appropriate coss of action. He shrugs. It has a pool. 
IN BLACK AND WHITE: A BRAIN It sits in a large fishbowl filled with clear fluid. The brain, alive, pulses. Leads connect it to various pieces of gear outside the fishbowl. Brain and appurtenances sit on a dais of sorts dressed out with bunting. Oddly, the picture is scored with cantorial singing. The brain seems to be giving orders to people who wear imperfectly form-fitting 1950's uniforms of the future. After receiving their instructions the minions of the brain kowtow before it and leave. They are succeeded by two leather-helmeted thugs, big and heavy though lacking muscle definition, who escort a resisting handsome man before the brain. The handsome man, hands tied behind his back, gazes defiantly up at the brain which in some fashion addresses him. We hear blows and voices over the cantorial music: 
DANNY Stop it! 
SARAH Creep fucker! 
DANNY Stop it! I'm getting it! I'm gonna get it! Wider shows that the brain is on television, which DANNY has muted while he plays the Cantor Youssele Rosenblatt record and drills his torah portion. He and SARAH are in a stand-off, hands tensed to either deliver or ward off blows. 
SARAH Brat! LARRY enters. 
LARRY What's going on? 
SARAH 
(LEAVING) Nothing. She closes the door behind her. 
LARRY What was that? 
DANNY Nothing. 
LARRY How's the haftorah coming? Can you maybe use the hi-fi? 
DANNY What? We hear the doorbell off. LARRY indicates the portable record player. 
LARRY 
Can I borrow this? I'm taking some stuff. To, you know, the Jolly Rodger. 
LARRY No. Almost a year and a half since Touche Ross let him go. He's very good with numbers. I think his, his social skills have held him back. 
MIMI Such a sweet man though. 
LARRY Arthur has a good heart. And he never complains, unlike me. Sometimes I don't give him enough credit. 
MIMI He tried to tell me about this thing he's working on, this, um... 
LARRY The Mentaculus? He says it's a, uh. a probability map. Of the universe. He asked if I could help him publish it. Um, it was a little hard for me to evaluate. 
A beat. 
MIMI Does he go out socially at all? 
LARRY He tries. He's been going to the singles mixers at Hillel House.-Well, I should talk, I'm not doing any better. 
MIMI How is Judith? 
LARRY Fine. She's fine. I'm the odd man out. Mimi smiles. 
MIMI Sometimes these things just aren't meant to be. And it can take a while before you feel what was always there, for better or worse. 
LARRY I never felt it! It was a bolt from the blue! What does that mean! Everything that I thought was one way turns out to be another! 
MIMI Then-it's an opportunity to learn how things really are. LARRY broods. Mimi softens. . I'm sorry-I don't mean to sound glib. It's not always easy, deciphering what God is trying to tell you. 
LARRY I'll say. 
MIMI But it's not something you have to figure out all by your- self. We're Jews, we have that well of tradition to draw on, to help us understand. When we're puzzled we have all the 
stories that have been handed down from people who had the same problems. 
LARRY I guess. 
MIMI Have you talked to Rabbi Nachtner? Silence. Arthur is climbing the hill from the lake, dripping wet. He projects: 
ARTHUR Boy! The air out here is magnificent! Mimi, looking at LARRY, responds to his dark silence: 
MIMI Why not see him? Mel Nudell has finished spreading and lighting the coals. He now comes and sits next to Mimi, draping an arm over her shoulder. She strokes his hand, still looking at LARRY. 
LARRY What's the rabbi gonna tell me? 
MIMI If I knew I'd be the rabbi. He looks at her glumly. She laughs. . Life is beautiful, LARRY. Nobody's sick. Nobody died. You just need help remembering how to enjoy it. She rests her head against Mel's shoulder. . Where are the kids? 
MEL Woods. Exploring. Uncle Arthur approaches, swim trunks plastered to his thighs, hair dripping, one hand 
pressing his towel to the back of his neck. 
ARTHUR If somebody could bottle this air they'd make a million bucks! A white title comes up: The First Rabbi 
JUDITH What's going on? The siblings slurp soup, neither answering. After a couple slurps: . Isn't Dad eating? 
JUDITH He's at the Jolly Roger. 
DANNY Oh yeah. More eating. 
FADE OUT 
SIEGLESTEIN, SCHLUTZ In a small windowless conference room lined by bookshelves filled with law reference books, LARRY rises to greet Don Milgram, entering. 
LARRY Don. 
DON How are you, LARRY, Jesus, I am so sorry to be seeing you under these circumstances. 
LARRY Oh, well... 
DON I always thought you and JUDY were rock solid. This is so terrible, LARRY. This is devastating. 
LARRY Well, the way I look at it, it's an opportunity for me to really sit down and figure things out, and, and, look at the world afresh instead of just, you know, settling for the routine, tired old way of looking at things. Don Milgram stares at him. 
DON . Really? 
LARRY 
(DEFLATING) I don't know. Maybe not. 
DON Well, legally, I have to warn you, it's never easy for the husband. Unless, of course, there's some question of the wife having violated the marriage contract. 
LARRY Oh no, nothing like that. She's planning to marry Sy Ableman, but they- 
DON Sy Ableman! 
LARRY Yes, but they- 
DON Esther is barely cold! 
LARRY She passed three years ago. 
DON Well, okay, still-this changes the complexion, LARRY! Sy Ableman! 
LARRY Not in the sense that... there hasn't been hanky-panky. To my knowledge. 
DON Oh. 
LARRY No. I'm fairly certain this is not an issue. And in fact they, uh, Judith wants a Gett. Beat. Don stares blankly at LARRY. LARRY clears his throat. A ritual divorce. 
DON Oh. 
LARRY So that they can remarry in the faith- 
LARRY 
(BLANK) Dick Dutton. 
LARRY'S OFFICE He sits in and picks up the phone. 
LARRY Hello? 
VOICE Hello, Mr. Gopnik, this is Dick Dutton from the Columbia Record Club. I'm calling because it is now, what, four months and we have yet to receive your first payment. 
LARRY I-there's some mistake. I'm not a member of the Columbian Record Club. 
VOICE Sir, you are Lawrence Gopnik of 1425 Flag Avenue South? 
LARRY No, I live at the Jolly Roger. 
VOICE Excuse me? 
LARRY No, I-well, yes, okay. 
VOICE Yes you are Lawrence Gopnik? 
LARRY Okay. 
VOICE Okay means... 
LARRY Okay, yes, Lawrence Gopnik, yes. 
VOICE Okay, well, you received your twelve introductory albums and you have been receiving the monthly main selection for four months now- 
LARRY "The monthly main selection?" Is that a record? I didn't 
ask for any records. 
VOICE To receive the monthly main selection you do nothing. 
YOU- 
LARRY That's right! I haven't done anything! 
VOICE Yes, that's why you receive the monthly main selection. The last 
LARRY But I- 
VOICE The last one was Santana Abraxis. You- 
LARRY I didn't ask for Santana Abraxis! 
VOICE You request the main selection at the retail price by doing nothing. It is automatically mailed to you. Plus shipping and handling. You're about to- 
LARRY Yes? She enters. 
SARAH Does this mean I can't go to the hole tonight? 
LARRY Does what mean-what happened? 
SARAH Sy Ableman died in a car crash. DANNY's Voice 
Hey Dad! 
LARRY What?! DANNY enters. 
DANNY So are you coming back home? Can you fix the aerial? The weeping, off, grows louder and more hysterical. 
LARRY What?! 
DANNY It's still, you know... Loud wailing. 
BLACK After a beat in black, a white title: The Second Rabbi The title fades. 
RABBI'S OFFICE We are close on LARRY. He sits hunched forward, hands clasped in front of him, staring at the floor, sadly shaking his head. After a long beat: 
LARRY It seems like she's asking an awful lot. But then-I don't know. Somebody has to pay for Sy's funeral. Rabbi Nachtner, sitting opposite, nods. Rabbi Nachtner 
Uh-huh. 
LARRY His own estate is in probate. But why does it have to be me? Or is it wrong to complain? JUDY says it is. But I'm so strapped for cash right now-paying for the Jolly Roger, and I wrecked the car, and DANNY's bar mitzvah... I... Rabbi Nachtner Something like this-there's never a good time. 
LARRY I don't know where it all leaves me. Sy's death. Obviously it's not going to go back like it was. Rabbi Nachtner Mm. Would you even want that, LARRY? 
LARRY No, I-well yeah! Sometimes! Or-I don't know; I guess the honest answer is I don't know. What was my life before? Not what I thought it was. What does it all mean? What is Hashem trying to tell me, making me pay for Sy Ableman's funeral? Rabbi Nachtner Mm. 
LARRY And-did I tell you I had a car accident the same time Sy had his? The same instant, for all I know. Is Hashem telling me that Sy Ableman is me, or we are all one or something? Rabbi Nachtner How does God speak to us: it's a good question. You know Lee Sussman? 
LARRY DOCTOR Sussman? I think I-yeah. Rabbi Nachtner Did he ever tell you about the goy's teeth? 
LARRY No... I-What goy? Rabbi Nachtner So Lee is at work one day; you know he has the orthodontic practice there at Texa-Tonka. 
LARRY Uh-huh. Rabbi Nachtner Right next to the Gold Eagle Cleaners. We cut to: 
SIGN FOR THE GOLD EAGLE CLEANERS It dominates a small suburban strip mall. Rabbi Nachtner continues in voice-over as we cut to a smoked glass door that identifies Leon Sussman, DDS. Rabbi Nachtner He's making a plaster mold-it's for corrective bridge work-in the mouth of one of his patients... A close shot of a man's mouth biting down on two horse-shoe shaped troughs-an upper and a lower-that overflow an oozing white goo. . Russell Kraus. He's a delivery dispatcher for the Star and Tribune with chronic mandicular deterioration. The grinding guitar solo from Jefferson Airplane's "Bear Melt" scores the narrative. The patient opens his mouth as a hand enters to grab the upper tray. The reverse shows Dr. Sussman, a balding middle-aged man, dressed in the the high- collared white smock of an oral surgeon. He carries the mold over to a drying table. Kraus is twisted over the side of the chair spitting into the water-swirled spit-sink. . Well, the mold dries and Lee is examining it one day 
before fabricating an appliance... Another day: Dr. Sussman is sitting at his desk examining the lower mold. He notices something unusual. . He notices something unusual. Sussman reaches up for the loupe attached to his eyeglasses. There seems to be something engraved on the inside of the patient's lower incisors... He flips down the loupe. His eyes are hugely magnified as he stares. Sure enough, it's writing. Sussman squints. His point-of-view: Tiny incised Hebrew letters: sml�nn 
BACK TO RABBI NACHTNER He confirms with a nod. Rabbi Nachtner This in a goy's mouth, LARRY. 
BACK TO LEON SUSSMAN The Rabbi's narrative continues. Rabbi Nachtner Tet resh nun lamed nun shin tsayin. What is that-tiranu linoshets? "Help me"? Is that what it says? Or is it a name? It's not Kraus's name. Sussman flips the loupe away and looks off, haunted. He rises. He checks the mold, just to be sure. Oh, it's there all 
right... A dental mirror is dipped into the horse-shoe-shaped hardened paste of the mold. It pans tiny letters that stand out in relief, right-side around in the mirror: yw .rin Sussman leans back, thinking. He calls the goy back on the pretense of needing additional measurements for the appliance... Close on Kraus grinning as he shakes Sussman's hand in the reception area. Sussman gestures to invite Kraus back to the examination room. Sussman chats, affecting nonchalance. In the examination room, leaning over Kraus in the chair, the dentist is indeed chatting with seeming casualness. Notice any other problems with your teeth? Anything peculiar, et cetera? Sussman takes a dental mirror. No. No. No. Visited any other dentist recently? He looks in Kraus' mouth with the mirror: Ym nn Sussman frowns. There it is. "Help me"? He leans back. Sussman goes home. Can Sussman eat? No. Sussman sits at the kitchen table, untouched food in front of him. His wife chats volubly while Sussman stares into space. Can Sussman sleep? No. 
THEN: . We speak of L'olam ha-ba, the World to Come. Not heaven. Not what the gentiles think of as afterlife. "L'olam ha-ba." What is L'olam ha-ba? Where is L'olam ha-ba? Well: it is not a geoaraphic place, certainly. Like-Canada. Murmured chuckles from the congregation. Nor is it the eretz zavat chalav ood'vash-the land flowing with milk and honey, for we are not promised a personal reward, a gold star, a first-class VIP lounge where we get milk and cookies to eternity! More chuckles. L'olam ha-ba... is in the bosom of Abraham. L'olam ba- ba is in the soul of this community which nurtured Sy Ableman and to which Sy Ableman now returns. That's right, he returns. Because he still inspires us Ableman returns. Because his memory instructs us Ableman returns. Because his thoughts illuminate our days and ways Sy Ableman returns. The frivolous man may vanish without a ripple but Sy Ableman? Sy Ableman was a serious man... 
A sob echoes through the sanctuary. LARRY looks at Judith, who stifles further sobs with a handkerchief. . As you know, the mourner's kaddish does not mention the dead. It praises Hashem; it praises what abides. And Sy Ableman, whose spirit will continue to assist us in tikkun olam, is with us even now, a serious man who would say as we now say Yiskadal v'yiskadash sh'may rabah... The congregation begins to chant along but it and Judith's weeping are cut off by: 
A HAND RAPPING AT A DOOR The front door to the Gopnik home. LARRY, still in his suit from shul and wearing a yarmulka, opens the door. He recoils in surprise edged with fear. Reverse: two uniformed policemen. 
COP 1 Arthur Gopnik? LARRY is momentarily dumb. Inside the house we can see a corner of a card table set up in the living room with food laid out on it. SARAH sits with her back to us, head wrapped by a towel-turban. Arthur, on the far side of the table, his balding head domed by a yarmul- ka, half-leans out so that he may sneak looks toward the men at the door without totally revealing himself. From somewhere down the hall come Judith's muffled sobs. . Are you Arthur Gopnik? 
LARRY I'm... Laurence Gopnik. Cop I Do you go by the name Arthur Gopnik? 
LARRY No. 
COP 1 Is that Arthur Gopnik? Arthur ducks away. From inside the living room: DANNY (off) Dad? What's going on? 
LARRY Can you tell me what's going on. We're sitting shiva here. 
COP 1 You're what. 
LARRY A religious observance. We're... bereaved. The cop standing behind gazes in over his partner's shoulder. 
COP 2 Who died? 
LARRY My wife's um... it's a long story. 
COP 1 Look. Tell Gopnik-you know, Arthur Gopnik-he's breaking the law. We're not arresting him now but next time we will. Gambling is against the law in this state. That's just the way it is. All right. Go back to your... 
COP 2 Sorry, sir. 
LIVING ROOM A minute later. The family-except for Judith, whose weeping continues off-sits around the card table. A long beat. At length: 
DANNY Dad, we get Channel 4 now but not Channel 7. 
LARRY Arthur, how could you do that to this family. On Sy's... on Sy's- 
ARTHUR It's a victimless crime. 
LARRY That doesn't make it right! And you- 
DANNY He won a lot of money, Dad! The Mentaculus really works! LARRY's gaze swings onto his son. 
LARRY You knew about it?! 
DANNY Well, um... 
ARTHUR They must have finked me out. They knew I could just keep on winning, so a couple weeks ago they blackballed me, and now they've- 
LARRY What did you do with the money you won? Silence. Arthur sneaks a look at DANNY. LARRY looks back and forth between them. . What's going on? Arthur shrugs. 
ARTHUR 
LARRY Sure. 
CLASSROOM We are close over LARRY's shoulder as he scribbles symbols onto the chalkboard. 
LARRY . and that means... so that... from which we derive... His glances back toward the class show that he is wearier, baggier-eyed, more haggard than ever. There is also something odd about his posture. He writes smaller and smaller so as to finish before hitting the right edge of the chalkboard. . and also.. which lets us... and... Wider as he finishes and straightens up, revealing that he has been stooping to write across the very bottom of the board. The equation covers every inch of the classroom-wide three-paneled chalkboard. LARRY is an off balance figure at the right edge of frame. Reverse on the class: staring. Okay? LARRY claps chalk dust from his hands. . The Uncertainty Principle. It proves we can't ever really know... what's going on. A bell sounds. The students start to shake off their stupor and rise. LARRY projects over the wallah: . So it shouldn't bother you. Not being able to figure anything out. Although you will be responsible for this on the mid-term. The thinning crowd gradually reveals one person still seated: Sy Ableman. He wears a prayer shawl and yarmulka. 
LARRY does not seem surprised to see him. . Did you follow that? Sy Ableman Of coss. Except that I know what's going on. How do you explain. 
LARRY Well, it might be that, in, you know, in L'olam ha-bah- Sy Ableman Excuse me. Not the issue. In this world, LARRY. He nods at the chalkboard. . I'll concede that it's subtle. It's clevva. But at the end of the day, is it convincing? 
LARRY Well-yes it's convincing. It's a proof. It's mathematics. Sy Ableman Excuse me, LARRY. Mathematics. Is the art of the possible. LARRY's brow furrows. 
LARRY I don't think so. The art of the possible, that's... I can't remember... something else... Sy Ableman I'm a serious man, LARRY. 
LARRY I know that. So if I've got it wrong, what do I- Sy Ableman holds up one hand to silence him. Sy Ableman So simple, LARRY. See Minda. 
LARRY I know, I want to see Minda! I want to see Minda! They told me that oonh! Without our having seen him rise or cross the room Sy Ableman has body-slammed LARRY into the chalkboard. Now he grabs LARRY by the hair and whips his head against the equation. As he slams LARRY's head, again and again, the chalkboard chatters and the fringes on Sy's tallis dance. Sy Ableman See Minda! See Minda! I fucked your wife, LARRY! I seriously fucked her! That's what's going on! See Minda! 
LARRY Very close on his eyes as they open. His head is on a pillow. Dull early light. A hissing sound. LARRY looks blearily over. On the vanity table just outside the motel bathroom door sits Uncle Arthur's cyst evacuator. Its waggling hose snakes into the cracked bathroom door as the machine hisses. 
MEZUZA On a doorpost. A hand enters to knock. A long beat. The person knocking gives up and his footsteps start to go away just as the door opens to reveal an attractive woman the sunbathing neighbor, now wearing plaid shorts and a buttoned white blouse. Her point-of-view: LARRY, frozen halfway down the stoop, head turned back up toward the door. 
WOMAN Mr. Gopnik. 
LARRY Oh. Hello, Mrs. Samsky. I knocked, and then thought you weren't here. I, uh... Mrs. Samsky's voice is soft and breathy: Mrs. Samsky It just took me a second to get to the door. I was out back. LARRY stands nodding. He seems to need prompting. Mrs. Samsky does: . Can I help you? Wanna come in? 
LARRY No, I- One hand on the door, she steps back. Mrs. Samsky It's cooler. 
LARRY Oh. Okay. I just wanted to let you know... He is entering. 
INSIDE After the outside glare the house does indeed seem cooler. LARRY looks around the living room, dim but neat. Wavering light sifts through closed vertical blinds which drift and click over floor-vented air-conditioning. Mrs. Samsky closes the door, shutting out all sound from outside. 
LARRY I've noticed that Mr. Samsky isn't around, and I- Mrs. Samsky He travels. 
LARRY Uh-huh. Yeah, I never seem to see him, so I thought I should let you know, since you're somewhat new here, if you ever have, whatever, chores that you'd, um, or just help with something-I've decided to help others-you know, in a neighborly way... She gazes at him with the least hint of a smile and waits for the speech to dribble away to silence. In the ensuing beat, quiet except for the clicking of the blinds, she is perfectly still. Finally, only her mouth moves: Mrs. Samsky How thoughtful. LARRY shrugs off the compliment. 
LARRY Oh it's nothing. It's just good to know your neighbors. And to help. Help others. Although I don't care much for my neighbors on the other side, I must say. Mrs. Samsky lets another smiling silence pass before responding. Mrs. Samsky . Goys, aren't they? 
LARRY Mm. Very much so. Maybe it's not fair to judge; I have to admit I- Mrs. Samsky Won't you sit down? 
LARRY Oh! Um. Okay. Thank you. Mrs. Samsky Iced tea? I have some. She is already turning to the kitchen. 
LARRY Okay.. . He watches her and reacts to: The backs of her thighs. The flesh retains the broad cross-hatch of her lawn chair. She disappears into the kitchen, but calls out: Mrs. Samsky I don't see you around much, either. 
LARRY Yes. Actually I haven't been home a lot recently, I, uh, my wife and I are, uh, well, she's got me staying at the Jolly Roger, the little motel there on- Mrs. Samsky is reentering with two tall glasses of iced tea beaded with moisture. The click of the ice cubes joins the clicking of the blinds. Mrs. Samsky You're in the doghouse, huh? She hands him a glass as she sits on the couch next to him, not invasively close, one bare leg folded onto the couch, the other draped over it. 
LARRY Yeah, that's an understatement I guess, I -thank you-I, 
UH- Mrs. Samsky Do you take advantage of the new freedoms? LARRY stares at her. Mrs. Samsky gazes back. Her look displays equanimity; his, not. 
ARTHUR Hello, Mrs. Samsky. 
LARRY -a miscarriage- 
COP Does this man live here? 
DANNY He sleeps on the couch. 
LARRY Look! What did he do! 
ARTHUR Nothing! I didn't do anything! 
DANNY It folds out. Dad sleeps on a cot. 
LARRY You can't just- 
COP Sir, we picked this man up at the North Dakota. LARRY is brought up short. 
LARRY The North Dakota! 
ARTHUR But I didn't do anything! 
DANNY Dad, what's the North Dakota? 
COP Solicitation. Sodomy. Very serious. 
LARRY . The North Dakota! We hold on LARRY's shocked reaction as we hear DANNY, off: 
DANNY What's Sodomy, Dad? 
DON MILGRAM He wears a black armband. He sits thinking, bouncing steepled fingers against his nose. 
FINALLY: 
DON What does Arthur say? 
LARRY He says he didn't do anything. 
DON Uh-huh. 
LARRY He says. . . he just went in for a drink. 
DON Uh-huh. Long beat. . Does Arthur drink? 
LARRY No. 
DON Uls-huh. 
LARRY . He says he was confused. 
ARTHUR 
AAAHHHH! Shockingy loud, the scream is hard to interpret. Arthur flings off his bedclothes. He leaps from the bed and runs to the door. In boxer shorts and undershirt he flings the door open and runs out of the room. 
LARRY Arthur! LARRY leaps from his bed, also in his underwear. He goes to the door but pauses, peering cautiously outside. Satisfied that the courtyard is deserted, he plunges into it. 
COURTYARD The courtyard/parking lot is hardlit by ghastly mercury vapor lights. The pool, surrounded by chain-link fence, has been drained. Its white concrete interior is cracked 
and weedy. Uncle Arthur is hunched weeping in a corner of the pool enclosure. 
LARRY 
(HISSING) Arthur! He opens the creaking gate and scurries over to Arthur. . You've got to pull yourself together! Arthur is suddenly angry. His voice bounces off the concrete: 
ARTHUR It's all shit, LARRY! It's all shit! 
LARRY Arthur. Don't use that word. 
ARTHUR It's all fucking shit! 
LARRY Arthur! Come on! 
ARTHUR Look at everything Hashem has given you! And what do I get! I get fucking shit! 
LARRY Arthur. What do I have. I live at the Jolly Roger. 
ARTHUR You've got a family. You've got a job. Hashem hasn't given me bupkes. 
LARRY It's not fair to blame Hashem, Arthur. Please. Sometimes -please calm down-sometimes you have to help your- self. 
ARTHUR 
Don't blame me! You fucker! 
LARRY Arthur. Please. 
ARTHUR Hashem hasn't given me shit. Now I can't even play cards. He starts weeping again. LARRY looks around. 
LARRY Arthur. This isn't the right forum. Please. Not by the pool. Arthur weeps. Arthur... It's okay... It's okay... 
MORNING LARRY and Arthur are driving. We are looking at the two of them square through a windshield in which towering conifers stream by in reflection. It seems to be a glorious day. 
LARRY Is this it? Both men peer out. 
ARTHUR I think so... yeah... there... He indicates the road ahead. 
A SIGNPOST The old-fashioned kind with wooden fingers pointing the different directions. One points toward CANADA. 
We tip off the sign as LARRY's car passes and recedes. There is a canoe strapped to its roof. 
VOICE Nefesh echad sheichayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot... DANNY is still staring at the end of the yad against the parchment scroll. Someone's hand enters and moves the yad to a different place in the text. The voice repeats: . Nefesh echad sheichayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot... DANNY looks up from the scrolls. In the congregation Ronnie Nudell sits hunched-shouldered and squished between his parents. He returns DANNY's red-rimmed slack-jawed stare. The insistent voice: . Nefesh echad shelchayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot... DANNY looks over. From the surrounding scrum the prompter nods at him. He looks somewhat like Cantor Youssele Rosenblatt. 
. Nefesh echad shelchayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot.. . DANNY looks back down at the scroll. A hand enters to tap a pointing finger where the yad points. . Nefesh echad shelchayim, yitzeh gamor shel effa- DANNY suddenly erupts: 
DANNY Nefesh echad shelchayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot. . 
PROMPTER Mm-hm. DANNY continues to boom out the torah portion. He moves the yad along the line of letters. In the congregation, LARRY and Judith watch. We hear DANNY chanting fluently and LARRY squeezes the hand Judith has laced through his arm. Juith whispers: 
JUDITH I'm sorry that... things have been so hard for us... 
LARRY It's okay. 
JUDITH Sy had so much respect for you, LARRY. He pats her hand. A beat. . He wrote letters to the tenure committee. 
LATER The congregation is loudly singing V'Zos Hatorah. A tallised man of late middle age 
hoists the open scroll from the lectern and raises it high, turning his back on the congregation so that all may see it. DANNY has been ensconced in a highbacked chair upstage on the bema. His point-of-view of the man holding the torah is close and steeply raked. The man is sweating. The heavy scrolls vibrate slightly from his effort to keep them aloft. As the congregation continues to sing he mutters under his breath: 
MAN Jesus Christ.. . 
LATER DANNY stands behind the left lectern facing Rabbi Nachtner who holds a small kiddush cup out to him. Although Rabbi Nachtner seems to be addressing DANNY, he is projecting loudly. 
NACHTNER . taking your place as a member of our tribe. You will go and see Rabbi Minda after the service. You will cele- brate in a reception downstairs in Schanfield Hall. And then you will be a member of B'Nai Abraham and of the Nation of Israel. DANNY Gopnik, the Sisterhood makes a gift to you of this kiddush cup so that you will remember this blessed day on the next shabbas and the next, and on every shabbas of a long and fruitful life, and, until that wonderful day when you stand under the chupa, we say.. . 
CONGREGATION Amen. DANNY, still red-eyed, tries to focus. His point-of-view shows the kiddush cup large in the foreground, extended toward him by the Rabbi beaming above. His own hand rises into frame to grasp the kiddush cup. The congregation starts Adon Olam. 
A DOOR Creaking open. The cut has snapped off the robust Adon Olam, leaving sepulchral quiet. DANNY, clutching his kiddush cup, hesitantly enters the dim study. Minda's elderly eastern European gatekeeper closes the door behind him. Minda is an old man staring at him from behind a bare desktop. His look, eyes magnified by thick glasses, is impossible to read. DANNY creeps to the chair facing the desk. He gingerly sits on the squeaking leather upholstery, self-conscious under Minda's stare. Minda breathes regularly through his mouth. It is the only sound in the room. A long beat. The two sit face to face. Minda smacks his lips a couple of times, preparing to speak. Another beat. 
FINALLY: 
MINDA When the truth is found. To be lies. He pauses. He clears his throat. At length: . And all the hope. Within you dies. Another beat. DANNY waits. Minda stares. He smacks his lips again. . Then what? DANNY doesn't answer. It is unclear whether the question was directed at him. Quiet. 
Minda clears his throat with a loud and thorough hawking. The hawking abates. Minda sniffs. . Grace Slick. Marty Balin. Paul Kanta. Jorma... somethin. These are the membas of the Airplane. He nods a couple of times. . Interesting. He reaches up and slowly opens his desk drawer. He takes something out. He lays it on the bare desk and pushes it partway across. . Here. It is DANNY's radio. . Be a good boy. 
LARRY'S OFFICE LARRY is at his desk sorting through mail. Arlen Finkle (off DANNY was magnificent. LARRY looks up: Arlen is leaning in his accustomed spot in the office doorway. 
LARRY Oh. Thank you, Arlen. Arlen Finkle Mazel tov. It was wonderful. 
LARRY Yes it was. Thank you. Arlen Finkle Such a time of nachas, LARRY. He's your youngest. You have to savor it. 
LARRY I do. I will. Arlen Finkle See you at the staff caf. 
LARRY Yes. Arlen shoves off to go, but hesitates. Arlen Finkle I just... I shouldn't tell you. I'm not telling you officially. The tenure candidates aren't notified til Monday. 
LARRY . Yes? Arlen nods. Arlen Finkle You'll be very pleased. LARRY stares at him. 
LARRY Thank you, Arlen. Over his back as he goes: Arlen Finkle I didn't say anything. Mazel tov. 
HEBREW SCHOOL CORRIDOR Distant thunder at the cut. We are tracking behind Minda's female Caliban as she walks down the hall, stooped and shuffling. She holds a stack of papers in one hand. 
