The Abyss - by James Cameron 
THE ABYSS 
AN ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY BY JAMES CAMERON 
August 2, 1988 Director's Revision 
THE ABYSS 
OMITTED                                                                 1 
OMITTED                                                                 2 
TITLE: THE ABYSS -- ON BLACK, DISSOLVING TO COBALT BLUE 
EXT. OCEAN/UNDERWATER -- DAY                                            3 
Blue, deep and featureless, the twilight of five hundred feet down. PROPELLER SOUND.  Materializing out of the blue limbo is the enormous but sleek form of an Ohio-class SSBN ballistic missile submarine. 
INT. U.S.S. MONTANA -- DAY                                              4 
In the attack center, darkened to womb-red, the crew's faces shine with sweat in the glow of their instruments.  The SKIPPER and his EXEC crowd around BARNES, the sonarman. 
CAPTAIN Sixty knots?  No way, Barnes... the reds don't have anything that fast. 
BARNES Checked it twice, skipper.  It's a real unique signature.  No cavitation, no reactor noise... doesn't even sound like screws. 
He puts the signal onto a speaker and everyone in the attack room listens to the intruder's acoustic signature, a strange THRUMMING.  The captain studies the electronic position board, a graphic representation of the contours of the steep-walled canyon, a symbol for the Montana, and converging with it, an amorphous trace, representing the bogey. 
CAPTAIN What the hell is it? 
EXEC I'll tell you what it's not, it's not one of ours. 
BARNES Sir!  Contact changing heading to two-one-four, diving.  Speed eighty knots!  Eighty knots! 
EXEC Eighty knots... 
BARNES Still diving, depth nine hundred feet.  Port clearance to cliff wall, one hundred fifty feet. 
FRANK (simultaneously) Still diving, depth nine hundred feet.  Port clearance to cliff wall, one hundred fifty feet. 
Tension builds in the attack room as the Montana surges to intercept the intruder.  The exec tensely watches the vector-graphic readout for the side- scan sonar array.  The sub is running uncomfortably close to the cliff walls. 
EXEC (low, to Captain) It's getting tight in here. 
CAPTAIN We can still give him a haircut.  Helm, come right to oh six niner, down five degrees. 
HELMSMAN Coming right to oh six niner, sir.  Down five degrees. 
NAVIGATOR Port side clearance one hundred twenty feet narrowing to seventy-five.  Sir, we have a proximity warning light. 
EXEC That's too damn close!  We've gotta back off. 
BARNES Range to contact, two hundred.  Contact junked to bearing two six oh and accelerated to... one hundred thirty knots, sir! 
EXEC (really freaked now) Nothing goes one thirty! 
Suddenly the control room lights dim almost to blackness. 
EXT. U.S.S. MONTANA                                                     5 
We see only the effect, not the source, as a large diffuse light passes rapidly under the sub's hull.  Moments later a shockwave, like an underwater sonic boom, impacts the sub, slamming it sideways. 
INT. U.S.S. MONTANA                                                     6 
The bride crew are knocked off their feet, as the ship is buffeted. 
EXEC Turbulence!  We're in its wake! 
SIRENS.  Everyone shouting at once.  The power flickers low. 
CAPTAIN Helm, all stop!  Full right rudder! 
HELMSMAN All stop.  Full right rudder.  Hydraulic failure. Planes are not responding, sir! 
Power returns in time for the sonarman to get a glimpse at the side-scan display... AS THE SHEER CLIFF WALL LOOM BEFORE THEM. 
HELMSMAN Hydraulics restored, sir. 
EXT. U.S.S. MONTANA                                                     7 
The cliff wall materializes out of the blue limbo off the port bow with nightmarish slow-motion.  The sub slams into it with horrific force, scraping along and bouncing off.  One tail stabilizer is sheared off and the big screw prangs the wall with an earsplitting K-K-KWANG! 
INT. PORT TO TORPEDO ROOM                                               8 
With the outer tube-doors torn off, seawater slams in, busting the inner hatches.  Two-foot thick columns of water, like fire-hoses of the gods, blast into the room.  Everything vanishes instantly in white spray. 
INT. CONTROL RM/ATTACK CENTER                                           9 
CATFISH (Kentucky drawl) That's cause we love freezin' our butts off out here sooo much, boss. 
OMITTED                                                                 19 
INT. DRILL ROOM                                                         20 
Bud turns from the window and crosses the drill floor.  The working heart of the rig.  THUNDEROUS MECHANICAL ROAR.  The drill crew, in hardhats and mud- plastered overalls, tend the massive spinning turn-table in the center of the chamber.  The semi-automated system requires only five men to operate.  The others are LUPTON MCWHIRTER, DWIGHT PERRY, JAMMER WILLIS, and TOMMY RAY DIETZ.  Bud hears his names called above the din by Jammer, a massive roughneck/diver who stands a good head taller than the rest. 
JAMMER (yelling) Bud!  Hippy's on the bitch-box.  It's a call from topside.  That new company man. 
BUD Kirkhill?  That guy doesn't know his butt from a rathole.  Hey, Perry! 
One of the roustabouts, a wiry Texan, turns to him. 
BUD Do me a favor and square away the mud hose and those cable slings.  This place is starting to look like my apartment. 
Perry chuckles and sets to the task cheerfully.  Bud EXITS, ducking his head through a low watertight hatch. 
INT. CORRIDOR/TOOLPUSHER'S OFFICE                                       21 
Bud tromps down the narrow corridor, his work boots gonging on steel. 
P.A. (HIPPY'S VOICE) BUD, PICK UP THE TOPSIDE LINE URGENT. 
BUD I'm coming.  Keep your pantyhose on. 
He enters his office, a tiny cubicle with stacks of paperwork, dust- gathering tech manuals and waterstained Penthouse fold-outs.  He picks up the phone... punches down a line. 
BUD Brigman here.  Kirkhill?  What's going on? (pause) I am calm.  I'm a calm person.  Is there some reason why I shouldn't be calm? 
HOLD ON Bud's expression, darkening, as he listens. 
INT. CORRIDOR/CONTROL MODULE                                            22 
The control module is a long narrow cabin like the inside of a Winnebago, packed with instrumentation.  At the end is a small bay with multiple viewports.  Outside, at a 'Christmas tree' pipe installation, a lone diver can be seen welding.  He is accompanied by a large submersible, FLATBED, and by a Remotely Operated Vehicle, or ROV, call LITTLE GEEK.  Little Geek is an underwater robot which operated on the end of a cable-like control TETHER. It has a single video 'eye' in front, by which the operator pilots the little machine.  The rig's ROV pilots is ALLEN 'HIPPY' CARNES, who stands by the window twiddling his joysticks and drinking coffee.  His pet white rat, BEANY, crawls contentedly around his shoulders.  The door BANGS OPEN. 
Hippy jumps, slops his coffee.  Bud strides in.  Not calm. 
BUD Son of a bitch. 
He kicks a chair out of the way and slams his palm down on a switch marked DIVER RECALL.  A SIREN, blasting through the water from a big hydrophone loudspeaker. 
BUD All divers.  Drop what you're doing.  Everybody out of the pool. 
EXT. DEEPCORE/CHRISTMAS TREE                                            A22 
Flatbed's pilot, LISA 'ONE NIGHT' STANDING, can be clearly seen behind a bubble canopy.  She is a no-nonsense lady who holds her own in the mostly male environment by being one of the best submersible drivers in the business.  She controls a hydraulic manipulator arm, assisting the diver, ARLISS 'SONNY' DAWSON, in his work.  Little Geek hovers around them like a tiny helicopter.  One Night moves the Flatbed arm to Sonny and hands him the pipe. 
ONE NIGHT Here you go, hon'. 
SONNY Just in time, sugar. 
They react to Bud's recall, looking toward him up in the control module. 
ONE NIGHT Dammit, we just got out here. 
SONNY There was a time when I would have asked why. 
One Night makes a grab for his butt with the manipulator claw, which he narrowly avoids. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DEEPCORE/UNDER SUB-BAY                                             23 
Flatbed moves underneath the rig, a few feet above the seafloor, with Sonny riding on its top deck.  It passes under a lit opening and rises toward the surface of the water in the chamber above.  Little Geek follows like an obedient dog. 
INT. SUB-BAY/MOONPOOL                                                   24 
The opening is called the moonpool, and Deepcore's submersibles are launched through it.  From inside the sub-bay it looks just like a swimming pool. Flatbed surfaces, nearly filling it.  The chamber also contains CAB ONE, a similar submersible.  Jammer, Perry, and some of the other drill-room boys are helping the divers out of the water.  The water at this depth is only about six degrees above freezing, and these folks are cold and prune- fingered.  Finler pulls off his demand-helmet, revealing a round, boyish face. 
FINLER What's goin' on?  How come we got recalled? 
SONNY Hell is I know. 
One Night jumps 'ashore' from Flatbed's broad deck and joins them.  Catfish is unzipping his bulky dry-suit. 
CATFISH Just follow standard procedure, will ya... flog the dog till somebody tells us what's happening. 
JAMMER Hey, Catfish, I'll sell you my October Penthouse for twenty bucks. 
ONE NIGHT Save you money, darlin'... the pages are all stuck together by now. 
Bud enters, approaching the group. 
JAMMER What's goin' on, Boss? 
BUD Folks, I've just been told to shut down the hole and prepare to move the rig. 
SONNY She-hit. 
McBride appears on the bridge monitor, holding a sheet of weather-fax. 
MCBRIDE (on screen) Well, it's official, sportsfans.  They're calling it Hurricane Frederick, and it's going to be making our lives real interesting in a few hours. 
INT. EXPLORER BRIDGE -- DAY                                             32 
Bud responds via video. 
BUD Fred, huh?  I don't know.  Hurricanes should be named after women. 
McBride looks up as the bridge door opens.  Lindsey enters in a blast of wind, wet as a wharf rat and twice as pissed off.  Maybe Bud is right. 
CUT TO: 
INT. DEEPCORE/CONTROL MODULE                                            33 
Bud is surprised to see Lindsey's face appear on the monitor screen. 
LINDSEY I can't believe you let them do this! 
BUD (unpreturbed, almost cheerful) Hi, Lins.  I thought you were in Houston. 
LINDSEY I was, but I managed to bum a ride on the last flight out here.  Only here isn't where I left it, is it, Bud? 
BUD Wasn't up to me. 
LINDSEY We were that close to proving a submersible drilling platform could work.  We had over seven thousand feet of hole down for Chrissake.  I can't believe you let them grab my rig! 
BUD Your rig? 
LINDSEY My rig.  I designed the damn thing. 
BUD Yup, a Benthic Petroleum paid for it.  So as long as they're hold the pink slip, I go where they tell me. 
LINDSEY You wimp.  I had a lot riding on this.  They bought you... more like least rented you cheap-- 
BUD I'm switching off now. 
LINDSEY Virgil, you wiener!  You never could stand up to fight.  You-- 
Bud hits the switch and the screen goes dead. 
BUD Bye. 
Hippy looks over him, trying very hard not to crack up. 
HIPPY Virgil? 
BUD God, I hate that bitch. 
HIPPY Yeah, well you never should have married her then. 
Bud nods fatalistically. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. EXPLORER DECK/LAUNCH WELL                                          34 
Ten foot waves crash through the launch-well, sending up geysers of spray. Next to the launch-well, crewman have attached a lifting cable to CAB THREE, eighteen feet of ugly yellow submersible.  It slams violently in its steel cradle as the drill-ship rolls.  Coffey and Schoenick hand the gear bags in to Wilhite and Monk though the hatch under the rear of the submersible. 
Lindsey approaches, wearing a borrowed roustabout's coverall. 
She looks down at the larger of the two equipment cases brought by the SEALs, lying on the deck.  Stenciled on it are the words: F.B.S./DEEP SUIT/MARK IV. Coffey and Schoenick push past her to pick it up. 
LINDSEY Let's go, gentlemen!  We either launch now or we don't launch. 
Coffey looks up in surprise as she nimbly climbs the side of Cab Three and grabs the lifting shackle, circling her raised hand to signal the crane man. 
LINDSEY Take her up, Byron! 
Cab Three, with Lindsey riding its back, is pulled up out its cradle and starts to swing violently as Explorer pitches.  The submersible is then swung out to the center of the launch well.  It sways and gyrates above the furious water below.  Lindsey drops into the upper hatch. 
INT. EXPLORER BRIDGE/D.O.C.                                             35 
Kirkhill leans suddenly over the console to look out the window. 
KIRKHILL What the hell is she doing out there?  Son of a bitch... (into microphone) Lindsey... get out of Cab Three.  Bates is taking her down. 
INT. CAB THREE                                                          36 
Lindsey pulls her headset as she dogs down the inside locking levers of the hatch. 
LINDSEY Bates is sick.  Besides I've got more hours in this thing than he does. (to Coffey) A little change of plan. 
The little sub is swinging like a pendulum on the cable, and the SEALs, jammed in with their equipment in the tiny space, are getting slammed into the walls.  Lindsey is calmly flipping switches as she talks. 
COFFEY Lady, we better fish or cut bait. 
LINDSEY Just hold your water, okay? (to Kirkhill) So Kirkhill, we gonna do this or we gonna talk about it? 
INT. GAS CONTROL STATION -- HOURS LATER                                 46 
Catfish checks his watch, then reaches over and adjusts a value on the tri- mix manifold, watching the gauges.  Satisfied, he leans over to the pressure window in the door, checking out the SEALs.  Hippy has come down from the control deck for an advanced look are the interlopers.  Jammer is in a chair, reading a Louis L'Amour paperback. 
CATFISH Those guys ain't so tough.  I fought plenty of guys tougher'n them. 
HIPPY Now we get to hear about how he used to be a contender. 
Catfish hold up one calloused fist up in front of Hippy's face. 
CATFISH You see this?  They used to call this the Hammer. 
JAMMER Hippy wasn't born then. 
INT. PRESSURE CHAMBER                                                   47 
It looks like the end of a long bus trip.  Everyone silent... leafing through beat-to-hell magazines or just staring.  Lindsey has her feet propped up on the smaller of the SEALs' two equipment cases.  She casually toes open one of the latches, then the other.  Glances at Coffey.  He's reading.  She begins to lift the lid with her toe.  Gets a GLIMPSE INSIDE, of packing foam, and what looks like a SMALL BLACK METAL BOX.  Then... WHAM!  Coffey's foot comes down on the lid, slamming it shut.  Startled, she looks up into his cool gaze. 
COFFEY Curiosity killed the cat. 
CUT TO: 
INT. GAS CONTROL STATION/CHAMBER DOOR -- LATER                          48 
TIGHT ON CATFISH'S hands... closing values... spinning the wheel on the chamber hatch.  CUT WIDER as it cracks open with a virgin's sigh and swings aside. 
CATFISH Y'all'er done to a turn and ready to serve. Everybody okay? 
The SEALs nod peremptorily and shoulder their gear.  Lindsey exists first, followed by Monk, Wilhite, and Schoenick.  Coffey bends to relatch the small equipment case.  He is alone for one moment in the chamber.  He raises his hand and stares at it.  The fingertips are trembling the slightest bit.  He clenches them into a fist and walks out. 
INT. CORRIDOR                                                           49 
As Lindsey emerges into the main corridor of the rig, she bumps into a large, dark mass. 
LINDSEY Hey, was there a wall here before?  I don't remember a wall here.  Oh, Jammer!  Hi. 
The 'wall' grins down to her. 
JAMMER Howdy, there, little lady. 
Coffey emerges behind them and, ignoring Lindsey, faces Jammer. 
COFFEY (to Jammer) Show us the dive prep area.  We need to check out your gear. 
Jammer scowls, turns and leads the SEALs in the sub-bay.  Catfish and Lindsey exchange a look. 
LINDSEY Those guys are about a much fun as a tax audit. 
CUT TO: 
INT. COMMAND MODULE                                                     50 
TIGHT ON HIPPY, bathed in the light of the sonar display.  He is making kissing sounds at Beany, who has his inquisitive nose right up to Hippy's lips. 
LINDSEY Hippy, you're going to give that rat a disease. 
WIDER, as Hippy and Bud to see Lindsey leaning in the doorway.  She and Bud size each other up.  He opts for a jovial approach, his eyes wary. 
BUD Well, well.  Mrs. Brigman. 
LINDSEY Not for long. 
Lindsey crossed past him, her eyes scanning the banks of equipment, almost unconsciously checking, checking... getting the pulse of her big iron baby. 
BUD You never did like being called that, did you? 
LINDSEY Not even when it meant something. (looking through the front port) Is that One Night up in Flatbed? 
BUD Who else? 
Lindsey leans past Bud to the gooseneck mike on the console. 
LINSEY Hi, One Night, it's Lindsey. 
INT. FLATBED                                                            51 
One Night mimes a puking motion, finger down her throat.  Then she replies with sickening sweetness... 
ONE NIGHT Oh, hi, Lindsey. 
INT. COMMAND MODULE                                                     52 
Lindsey fives the sonar shack the once-over.  She tweaks some knobs. 
BUD I can't believe you were dumb enough to come down.  Now you're stuck here for the storm... dumb, hot-rod... dumb. 
LINDSEY Look, I didn't come down here to fight. 
She crosses past Bud and exits into the corridor.  Bud bolts out of the chair to follow her and Hippy scrambles in to take over. 
BUD Shit. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DEEPCORE                                                           57 
The platform is stopped, hovering in place.  Like a great spacecraft setting down on a barren planet, the rig settles into the bottom ooze.  Flatbed releases its tow lines and heads back to its berth inside. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SUB-BAY                                                            58 
CLOSE ON A PHOTOGRAPH, actually a computer-composited down-looking scan from a towed LIDAR (laser imaging sonar) rig.  It shows a faint, blurry outline of the Montana lying on her side on a ledge part-way down the canyon wall.  There is no detail.  A finger points to a flat ledge nearby.  An "X" has been put on with a grease pencil. 
COFFEY (V.O.) This is us.  We're just on the edge of the Cayman Trough.  The Montana is here, on its side, 300 meters away and 70 meters below us.  We think she slid down the wall, and lodged against this outcropping. 
CUT WIDE, showing the rig crew gathered around a worktable in the sub-bay. The divers, Bud, Catfish, Sonny, Finler, Jammer, and the four SEALs have their dry-suits on.  The pre-dive briefing.  Lindsey, One Night, and Hippy will crew the submersibles.  Wilhite is going around clipping DOSIMETER BADGES on everybody. 
SONNY This tells us how much radiation we get? 
HIPPY Hey, whoah... I can't handle no radiation, man. Forget it!  Include me out. 
CATFISH Hippy, you pussy. 
HIPPY What good's the money if your dick drops off in six months? 
COFFEY We'll take reading as we go.  If the reactor's breached or the warheads have released radioactive debris, we'll back away.  Simple. 
BUD Okay... Hippy's not going... McWhirter, you can run Little Geek. 
Bud pats the top of a small ROV, sitting next to its larger brother, Big Geek. 
HIPPY No way!  No way!  He can't fly an ROV worth shit.  I'll go.  Shit! 
COFFEY (to all) On the dive, you will do absolutely nothing without direct orders from me, and you will follow my instructions without discussion.  Is this clear?  Alright, I want everyone finished prep and ready to get wet in fifteen minutes. 
The rig crew disperses, picking up helmets and diving gear.  Some are studying the diagrams of the Montana's interior layout.  Bud takes Coffey aside as the others prepare. 
BUD Look, it's three AM.  These guys are running on bad coffee and four hours sleep.  You better start cutting them some slack. 
COFFEY I can't afford slack, Brigman. 
BUD Hey, you come on my rig, you don't talk to me, you start ordering my guys around.  It won't work.  You gotta know how to handle these people... we have a certain way of doing things here. 
COFFEY I'm not interested in your way of doing things. Just get your team ready to dive. 
End of discussion.  Coffey is walking away.  Burning, Bud crosses to his gear locker.  Picks up his helmet.  Finler is suiting out next to him. 
FINLER Hey, you know your hand is blue? 
BUD Shut up and get your gear on. 
NEARBY, Monk comes over to pick his helmet up off the worktable.  Hippy points to the heavy equipment case that says F.B.S. DEEP SUIT/MARK IV. 
HIPPY I've been meaning to ask you what this thing is. 
Mink opens the case and shows them an unfamiliar diving suit, what looks like a space helmet, and a large backpack. 
MONK Fluid breathing system.  We just got them.  We use it if we need to go really deep. 
HIPPY How deep? 
MONK Deep. (shrugs) It's classified... you know.  Anyway, you breathe liquid, so you can't be compressed. Pressure doesn't get to you. 
Catfish is grappling with the concept. 
CATFISH You're saying you get liquid in your lungs? 
MONK Oxygenated fluorocarbon emulsion. 
Monk take a clear plastic box full of O-rings off the shelf and dumps them out.  He opens a valve on the backpack and allows some of the fluid inside it to drain into the box.  Then he take Beany by the tail off Hippy's shoulder. 
HIPPY Hey! 
MONK Check this out. 
He drops Beany in the box and, before Hippy can protest, closes the lid. Beany is forced under the surface.  He struggled for a second, and bubbles come out of his mouth.  Then he casually swims around in there, completely submerged... breathing liquid.  Catfish and the others stare into the box, amazed. 
MONK See?  He's diggin' it. 
Monk takes Beany out and hold him by the tail for a few seconds to drain his lungs.  Then hands him back to Hippy.  The rat is annoyed, but otherwise alright. 
CATFISH This is no bullshit hands down the goddamnedest thing I ever saw. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DEEPCORE/DROPOFF                                                   59 
Three sets of moving lights move outward from Deepcore.  Cab One and Three, with Lindsey and Hippy at the controls respectively, and One Night in the Flatbed.  Lindsey is in the lead.  She approaches the cliff-like drop-off and starts to descend. 
Hippy nods and Perry drops Little Geek through the hatch into the water and feed out a length of tether.  Hippy picks up the control box and watches the video screen, guiding the ROV toward the Montana's hatch. 
EXT. MONTANA HATCH AREA                                                 64 
The three SEALs have unlatched the deck cover and revealed the hatch.  They open the out hatch and Monk swims down into to narrow escape trunk.  He bangs on the inner hatch with a wrench, listening carefully with his helmet pressed against it. 
MONK It's flooded.  Alright, I'm opening her up. 
Straining hard in the confined space, he get the lower hatch open, then swims backs out immediately.  He gestures to Hippy, via Little Geek's vision, and Hippy flies the ROV into the hatch. 
EXT./INT. CAB ONE/MISSLE DECK                                           65 
Meanwhile Cab One and Flatbed have proceeded forward along the hull.  Beyond Lindsey's front port, the great hatches of the Trident missile tubes roll toward us in procession.  Several of the hatch covers have been forced partway open by the warping of the hull. 
COFFEY (V.O.) Radiation is nominal.  The warheads must still be intact. 
LINDSEY How many are there? 
COFFEY (V.O.) 24 Trident missiles.  Eight MIRVs per missile. 
LINDSEY That's 192 warheads... And how powerful are they? 
SCHOENICK Your MIRV is a tactical nuke, 50 kilotons nominal yield.  Say times time Hiroshima. 
LINDSEY (V.O.) Jesus Christ... this is World War Three in a can. 
COFFEY (V.O.) Let's knock off the chatter, please. 
INT. CAB THREE                                                          66 
TIGHT ON VIDEO SCREEN -- LITTLE GEEK'S CAMERA.  Passing through a hatch, into a large grotto filled with pipes and machinery.  The engine room. 
MONK (V.O.) Getting a reading? 
HIPPY It's twitching but it's below the line you said was safe. 
EXT. MONTANA MIDSHIP HATCH                                              67 
Monk moves into the opening. 
MONK Alright.  Let's get in there. 
Wilhite and Schoenick follow him through the escape trunk, into the dark corridor beyond. 
EXT. MONTANA/BOW SECTION                                                68 
Out of the darkness ahead emerges the trailing edge of the sail, big as a five-story building.  Far below her, Flatbed moves along the edge of the ledge which supports the vast sub.  Its lights, and Lindsey's strobes, reveal the tremendous damage to the forward section as they pass the sail.  The torn and twisted hull looms above Flatbed as it sets down. 
Coffey indicated an enormous rent where the bow section is almost torn away from the rest of the hull. 
COFFEY We'll go in through that large breach. 
BUD Let's go, guys. 
Bud's team leaves Flatbed, swimming forward.  The opening is a black mouth in their lights.  Coffey moves inside.  Bud attaches one end of an orange nylon line to a piece of pipe and moves into the wreck behind him. 
BUD Take it slow, stay on the line, and stay in sight.  Watch for hatches that could close on you, or any loose equipment that could fall. 
Jammer, Catfish, Finler, and Sonny follow him inside. 
INT. MONTANA/FORWARD BERTHING SECTION                                   69 
They find themselves in the forward berthing compartment with its rows of bunks.  The room is twisted and disheveled, with bedding hanging from the bunks like the lolling tongues of dead dogs.  Papers float in gentle eddying currents, letters, pages from paperback novels, photos of girlfriends. Bud pays out the line and follows Coffey forward.  As they pass sealed doors, Coffey pounds with a tool, listening.  All flooded. 
INT. ENGINE ROOM                                                        70 
Monk leads his team along a corridor, following Little Geek's tether.  Through a hatch into the engine room.  Their lights play over flooded machinery. 
INT. COMPANIONWAY/CONTROL ROOM AND ATTACK CENTER                        71 
From the berthing Coffey's team swims up a companionway towards the attack center.  He pulls at a buckled watertight door. 
COFFEY It's jammed.  Give me a hand. 
Jammer and Bud squeeze in around Coffey.  Together they wrench the door open on its squealing hinges.  It give way suddenly, flying open.  The suction pulls SOMETHING THROUGH.  It slams Bud's shoulder.  He turns.  A FACE... RIGHT IN FRONT OF HIM!  He jerks back, gasping. 
Face to face with Barnes, the sonarman.  The ensign seems unmarked, merely dismayed at his own mortality, judging from his wide eyes and mouth.  Coffey reaches past Bud and pushes the ensign's body out of the way. 
COFFEY Alright, let's keep moving.  We knew we were going to see this. 
They enter the control room.  Their lights play over the high-tech wreckage. Floating debris and bodies make shifting shadows on the walls as they swirl in the currents.  A languid, weightless waltz.  They move through the carnage. Their lights pick out tableaux... the planesman still strapped in his chair, someone jammed into the ceiling pipes, hanging down.  Dead faces, pale in the lights.  Still.  We see only glimpses. 
Coffey locates the captain's body and rolls it over.  Removes the missile arming key which hangs on a chain around the dead man's neck.  Moves on. All business.  Bud turns back to his guys.  Checking them.  He notices Jammer is breathing so rapidly he's fogging his helmet.  Catfish, Finler, and Sonny aren't much better.  A wave a panic seems imminent. 
BUD How you guys doing? 
SONNY I'm alright, I'm dealing. 
CATFISH Triple time sounds like a lotta money, Bud.  It ain't.  I'm sorry... 
The glare pulses subtly, hypnotically.  The shifting shadow falls across Jammer.  He finally snaps out of his fixity... 
Screaming and gulping air he spins away and starts clawing hand over hand through the treacherous wreckage. 
His harness catches on a twisted pipe. 
He struggles, totally out of control... the big man reduced to a blind panic. 
Jammer heaves forward with all his adrenalized strength. 
He tears free of the entangling debris.  Launches like a torpedo... slamming his backpack full force into the top sill of the hatchway.  His tri-mix regulator takes the full brunt of the impact. 
ON BUD, swimming furiously back toward Jammer's position.  The strange radiance is gone.  His dive light flare back to full brightness. 
BUD Jammer?  Answer me, buddy,  JAMMER?! 
He reaches Jammer only to find him thrashing violently in place.  A seizure. Bud grapples with him. 
BUD Hang on, big guy.  Hand on! 
Catfish, Sonny, and Finler arrive from the corridor a moment later.  They leap into the fray. 
BUD He's convulsing! 
CATFISH It's his mixture!  Too much oxygen! 
Then they're all yelling at once, grappling with the big man, struggling with the valves on his breathing gear. 
FINLER Crank it down, man!  We're gonna losing him... 
BUD SHIT, it's stuck... goddamnit! 
SONNY You got it?!  You got it? 
BUD Yeah, yeah... yeah.  It's turning. 
Jammer's convulsion ends.  He goes limp. 
BUD We gotta get him out of here.  Come on! (to Jammer) Hang on, buddy. 
They drag Jammer's slack form into the corridor, hauling their way rapidly back along the lifeline. 
INT./EXT. CAB ONE & MONTANA SAIL                                        79 
Lindsey is approaching the monolith of the sail, maneuvering to clear the horizontal diving plane.  Then her lights go dim and her thrusters loose power. 
Suddenly a bright corona breaks around the bulk of the sail and SOMETHING appears right in front of her, a glowing object moving like a bat out of hell right at her!  It is slightly smaller than submersible and we only get a glimpse.  What we think we see in the diffuse glow is a translucent ovoid, open at the front with a spinning vortex of light inside... like some hallucinatory jet engine.  And it's hauling ass. 
Lindsey jinks left.  The object jogs right.  She fights the control as her sub slews around, slamming broadside into the sail.  K-BAM!  Her power comes back up.  Righting Can One, she spins to look through the aft viewport in time to see the object racing away in a broad arc.  It pulls a high-G turn and dives straight down. 
We see the object zip behind Flatbed.  One Night can't see it.  The thing spirals down into the darkness like a hit-and-run drunk, diving along the wall into the abyss until it is lost to view. 
HOLD ON Lindsey excited, amazed... dazed.  Her hands are shaking.  Suddenly Bud's voice blares out over the open frequency. 
BUD (V.O.) CAB ONE!  CAB ONE!  Meet me at Flatbed!  This is a diver emergency!!  Do you copy?  Lindsey?! 
She has a hard time focusing on what he's saying.  Finally... 
LINDSEY Copy you, Bud.  On my way. 
CUT TO: 
INT. DEEPCORE INFIRMARY -- AN HOUR LATER                                80 
Jammer is unconscious on a folding cot set up in the tiny cubicle of the infirmary.  Monk, who is cross-trained as a medic as well as a demolitions man, has hung an IV of something.  Bud and the SEAL are in the room, the others hovering outside. 
BUD Whattya think? 
MONK I'm a medic, which is mostly about patching holes.  This type of thing... there's not much I can do.  The coma could last hours or days. 
Bud, torn by guilt, gazes at the big man lying pathetically on the cot. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CONSOLE MODULE                                                     81 
The SEALs, minus Monk, are all gathered inside, debriefing with DeMarco via closed-circuit video. 
DEMARCO (video) Did any of you see it? 
COFFEY Negative.  But there was definitely a Russian bogey.  The Brigman woman saw it. 
DEMARCO CINCLANTFLT's gonna go apeshit.  Two Russian attack subs, a Tango and Victor, have been tracked within fifty miles of here... and now we don't know what the hell they are.  Okay, I don't have any choice.  I'm confirming you to go to Phase Two. 
Wilhite and Schoenick glance uneasily at each other. 
Coffey is silent.  He is vibrating with tension... his fists clenched to prevent the shaking.  He is wrestling with the moment, knowing it is, in a way, a point of no return. 
DEMARCO Is there any problem? 
BUD Hippy, you think everything's a conspiracy. 
HIPPY Everything is. 
One Night is pounding down the corridor from the sub bay. 
ONE NIGHT Hurry up!  Coffey's splitting with Flatbed! He got me to show him the controls, then his guys suited up and they're rolling. 
Bud breaks into a run, passing her. 
BUD Goddamnit!  D'you tell him we need it right now? 
ONE NIGHT I told him we had to get the umbilical unhooked ASAP. 
INT. SUB BAY                                                            85 
Bud clears the door in time to see an empty moonpool, roiling with turbulence. He runs to the edge and looks down.  Flatbed is a vague shape moving off. 
BUD Unbelievable. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. EXPLORER BRIDGE -- DAY                                             86 
The sky is charcoal, the sea is a mountain range of gray slopes.  Waves thunder over the foredeck, whipped by eighty-know winds.  Men in life jackets scurry like insects.  Off the port bow, the ASW destroyer ALBANY vanishes and reappears among waves sixty feet tall.  McBride scream orders that can't be heard to the crewmen on deck.  He staggers back along the bridge railing. 
INT./EXT. BENTHIC EXPLORER BRIDGE -- DAY                                87 
McBride steps into the quiet of the control room.  He turns on De Marco. 
MCBRIDE We're trying to get unhooked and get out of here... and your boys go sightseeing! 
DEMARCO They'll be back in two hours. 
MCBRIDE Two hours?!  We're gonna be getting the shit kicked out of us by our friend Fred in two hours! 
De Marco's expression is infuriatingly calm... icy.  McBride looks at his watch and swears under his breath. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. USS MONTANA WRECK SITE                                             88 
For a second time the black hull of the ballistic missile sub is illuminated by diver's lights.  Tiny figures, the divers move like moths around a distant streetlight.  Wilhite, Monk and Schoenick are clustered around an open missile hatch.  Using a large lift bag, they are removing the frangible fiberglass, or 'diaphragm'.  Coffey pilots Flatbed with increasing deftness, deploying the big arm to aid in the work. 
DOWN ANGLE as the diaphragm lifts away... revealing the blunt nose of the TRIDENT C-4 MISSLE.  Like looking down the barrel of a gun at the bullet aimed right at you. 
CUT TO: 
INT. DEEPCORE/MESS HALL                                                 89 
TIGHT ON VIDEO SCREEN:  A HELICOPTER SHOT of a warship burning, rolling ponderously as it sinks in stormy seas. 
NEWS ANCHOR (V.O.) Little is known at this hour about the events leading up to the collision.  The US Navy guided missile  cruiser Appleton apparently struck the Soviet 'Udaloy' class destroyer in low visibility conditions... 
VARIOUS CUTS of men in life jackets among huge waves... Rescue helicopters hovering.  Shaky camera work.  Wind blasting.  INTERCUT WITH REACTIONS of the rig crew watching. 
NEWS ANCHOR (V.O.) In violent seas little hope remains for over a hundred Russian crewmen still missing after the sinking an hour ago. 
SHOT OF AMERICAN CRUISER, burning, listing to one side in heavy seas. Replaced by SHOT OF NETWORK ANCHORMAN. 
NEWS ANCHOR Soviet military spokesmen have claimed that the collision constituted an unprovoked attack. This was denied-- 
It continues.  Bud looks at Lindsey.  She turns to him, expression grim. 
LINDSEY Bud, this is big time. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MONTANA WRECKSITE                                                  90 
The divers are working head-first in the missile's launch tube.  Monk reads from a plasticized card, directing the other two step by step.  The arcane litany is punctuated by the hissing rasp of their breathing. 
WILHITE (filtered) Separation sequencer disconnected.  Next? 
MONK (filtered) Remove explosive bolts one through six in counterclock-wise sequence. 
SCHOENICK (filtered) Check... removing bolt one. 
INT. DEEPCORE                                                           91 
ON THE RIG CREW, watching.  Bathed in the light of the video screen. 
NEWSCASTER (V.O.) ... just learned that Soviet negotiators have walked out of the strategic arms limitation summit in protest over the incident this morning. 
Bud switches the channel. 
ANOTHER NEWSCASTER ... US and NATO military forces have been put on full alert worldwide this morning in the wake of... 
BUD It's on every channel. 
Bud runs in, past Hippy, and grabs the mike. 
BUD Topside, topside... pay out some slack, we're getting dragged! 
EXT. EXPLORER DECK                                                      104 
The winch man staggers along the railing, blasted by 80-knot winds.  He sprints for the base of the enormous crane which supports the umbilical winch.  A wave blasts him into the bulkhead.  He half-crawls to the ladder going up to the winch-house.  As he climbs the winch's heave-compensator slides up and down, FILLING FRAME behind him. 
It is bottoming-out with a sound like a piledriver, overloaded by the strain on the cable.  It chooses that moment to fail.  GRINDING CRASH OF METAL. 
INT./EXT. DEEPCORE CONTROL MODULE                                       105 
Lindsey has joined Bud, looking out the front viewport. 
LINDSEY We're heading right for the drop off! 
EXT. EXPLORER DECK                                                      106 
The deck is ripped upward as the entire 40-ton crane is pulled over by the weight of Deepcore.  It topples in the launch well with a roar of tortured steel that rivals the storm.  An EXPLOSION OF WATER.  UNDERWATER, the crane tumbles between the twin hulls.  Trailing a vortex of foam and debris, it roars down on us, FILLING FRAME WITH BLACKNESS. 
INT. EXPLORER BRIDGE                                                    107 
McBride stares in shock at the churning cauldron of the launch well.  Grabs the underwater telephone. 
MCBRIDE Bud!  We've lost the crane! 
BUD (V.O.) What?  Say again. 
MCBRIDE THE CRANE!  WE'VE LOST THE CRANE.  IT'S ON ITS WAY TO YOU!! 
INT. DEEPCORE/CONTROL MODULE                                            108 
Everyone is stunned by what is happening.  Lindsey fires up the sonar. 
LINDSEY Got it!  It's dropping straight to us. 
She puts the signal over the speakers and the room fills with eerie PINGING. Bud shouts over the intercom. 
BUD Rig for impact!  Seal all exterior hatches. Move it!  Let's go! 
VARIOUS ANGLES, QUICK CUTS, as everyone runs to comply: 
The rig crew pounding down the narrow corridors.  Diving through low hatchways.  Hatches are closed and the wheels spun down.  Hippy puts into a ZIP-LOK BAG and seals it. 
EXT. DEEPCORE                                                           109 
The umbilical drops down in slack loops out of the blackness above, draping itself over the habitat in large coils.  One Night pilots her submersible feverishly among the falling loops.  She banks and twists.  A length of heavy umbilical slams onto her neck, tipping the sub. 
She manages to get out from under it a keep going. 
INT. CONTROL MODULE                                                     110 
Through the front viewport they can see the coils of cable piling up in front of the rig.  The hull booms with impacts as the massive stuff hits. 
Everyone hold their breath as the sonar return-pings get closer... and closer.  And closer... 
An ENORMOUS SHAPE plunged into the floodlight in front of the rig. 
K-WHAM!!  The 40-ton crane hits like a flatiron thirty feet in front of them. A clean miss.  Much WHOOPING AND CHEERING.  Then... 
The crane topples slowly over the back.  It rolls down the slope of the drop- off, gathering speed.  Then tumbles over the cliff into the abyssal canyon. The coiled umbilical starts to pay out after it like rope after a harpoon. And they're still attached. 
LINDSEY Oh shit. 
An agonizing few seconds.  Then... the cable pulls taut. 
K-BOOM!!  The rig is slammed by the shock.  Everyone is knocked off his feet, into walls and equipment. 
EXT. DEEPCORE                                                           111 
The rig begins to slide.  It tilts over the embankment and grinds down the slope of the drop-off in a cloud of silt.  The cable pulling it inexorably toward the cliff.  The framework twists and slams into rocks.  SCREECHING AND GROANING of tortured steel. 
INT. DEEPCORE/CORRIDOR/LADDERWELL/MAIN CORRIDOR                         112 
All hell has broken loose.  SIRENS, SCREAMING, a KLAXON HOOTING moronically. Bud sprints from Control, bouncing off the corridor walls as the rig lurches and tilts.  The lights go out.  Emergency light come on.  He trips and falls, scrambles up, running on. 
IN THE LADDERWELL of trimodule C, Lindsey runs toward the machine rooms. K-BOOM!  A searing bright EXPLOSION in the electrical room.  Flames roar through the doorway.  She dashed to a seawater hose hanging nearby and starts to unroll it.  She sees Coffey and Schoenick in maintenance, lashing down the mystery package. 
LINDSEY Hey!  Get on this hose, you turkeys! 
INT. TRIMODULE C/COMPRESSOR ROOM                                        113 
Monk is working in a spray of seawater, turning valves to stop the flow of ruptured pipes.  Behind him, a wall of flame blossoms through the door from the electrical room, driving the back with the heat.  A reservoir-tanks breaks loose from one of the compressor assemblies.  In rolls at him, crushing his legs against machinery.  The fire roars into the room. 
INT. SUB BAY                                                            114 
Hippy runs in.  The place is going nuts.  Water floods from the moonpool as the rig tilts.  Wilhite is dancing across the deck, leaping over compressed- gas cylinders which are rolling around loose.  Cab One jumps clear off its cradle and slides SCREECHING across the deck.  Wilhite, running before the 12-tom juggernaut, had no place to go.  The SEAL dives into the churning moonpool.  Cab One slams into the end wall, then spins and rolls toward Hippy. 
He starts to run.  Drop something.  Looks back. 
Lindsey is working, up to her knees in water.  She is covered with grease, tools scattered around.  Bud puts his hand on her shoulder.  She looks up, blows some hair out of her eyes. 
BUD What's the scoop, ace? 
LINDSEY I can get power to this module and sub-bay if I remote these busses.  I've gotta get past the mains, which are a total melt-down. 
Rather than trigger anger and invective, the disaster seems to have affected her in a different way.  She's accepted the situation, now that's it's done, and is immersing herself in technical tasks, which are for her therapeutic. 
BUD Need some help? 
LINDSEY Thanks.  No, I can handle it.  Bud... there won't be enough to run the heaters.  In a couple hours this place is going to be as cold as a meat locker. 
BUD What about O-2? 
LINDSEY Brace yourself.  We've got about 12 hours worth if we close off the sections we're not using. 
BUD The storm's gonna last longer than 12 hours. 
LINDSEY I can extend that.  There's some storage tanks outboard on the wrecked module.  I'll have to go outside to tie onto them. 
She goes back to her task, working efficiently with a socket wrench. 
BUD Hey, Lins... (she looks up) I'm glad your here. 
LINDSEY Yeah?  Well I'm not. 
OMITTED                                                                 121 
OMITTED                                                                 122 
The sub bay is still a mess.  Dark.  A few battery-operated lamps.  Flatbed is back, floating in the moonpool. 
One Night and Hippy are in deep concentration, piloting the two ROVs in a damage survey of the rig.  Bud comes up behind them, check her screen first. BIG GEEK'S MONITOR shows a view of the aft section of the rig.  The drilling derrick had collapsed across Cab Three, totaling it.  A girder is jammed through its acrylic front dome. 
ONE NIGHT Right through the brainpan.  Deader'n dogshit, boss. 
BUD (to Hippy) Where're you? 
HIPPY Quarters.  Level two. 
INT. TRIMODULE A/QUARTERS                                               A123 
Little Geek rises up through the open central hatch, pivoting in a circle to scan the flooded interior. 
INT. SUB BAY/R.O.V. STATION                                             B123 
TIGHT ON VIDEO SCREEN, LITTLE GEEK'S POV.  The interior of the structure is a shambles.  The lights of the little robot fall upon a figure... Perry. Lying on the deck, almost looking like he's asleep. 
HIPPY That's Perry. 
BUD (lets his breath out slowly) That's it then.  Finler, McWhirter, Dietz, and Perry.  Jesus. 
HIPPY (gestured at the screen) Do we just leave him there? 
BUD Yeah, for now.  Our first priority's to get something to breathe. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DEEPCORE                                                           124 
Catfish and Lindsey, in suits and helmets, drop down from the glare of the moonpool onto the dark sea floor under the rig.  Walking, they pull their umbilicals behind them and head out through the twisted wreckage.  Little Geek follows along like a dog at their heels.  They settle beside a valve assembly at the base of the wrecked module. 
LINDSEY Cat, you tie onto this manifold.  There's some tanks on the other side; I'm gonna go check them out. 
CATFISH You watch yourself. 
He begins to attach one end of a coiled-up high-pressure hose to a manifold. She takes the other end of the hose and moves off into the darkness.  Little Geek goes with her faithfully. 
INT. SUB BAY                                                            125 
Cab One is hanging from the overhead crane while One Nigh works to repair it. Bud is nearby, tending hose for the divers and handing her tools.  Talking while they work.  Hippy is across the moonpool running Little Geek. 
ONE NIGHT Gimme a three-eighths socket on a long extension. (he hands it to her) So there you were-- 
BUD There we were, side by side, on the same ship, for two months.  I'm tool-pusher and we're testing this automated derrick of hers.  So, we get back on the beach and... we're living together. 
ONE NIGHT Doesn't mean you had to marry her. 
BUD We were due to go back out on the same ship. Six months of tests.  If you were married you got a state-room.  Otherwise it was bunks. 
ONE NIGHT Okay, good reason.  Then what? 
BUD It was alright for a while, you know.  But then she got promoted to project engineer on this thing, couple years ago. 
ONE NIGHT She went front-office on you.  Tighten that for me, right there.  That's it. 
BUD Well, you know Lindsey, too damn aggressive-- Son of a--!! 
He's jammed his fingers with a wrench torquing down a bolt.  Whips his hand out. 
LINDSEY Not us.  Not human.  Get it?  Something non- human, but intelligent... 
HIPPY You mean like Coffey? 
Lindsey is reddening.  Despite her conviction, this is really hard. 
LINDSEY A non-terrestrial intelligence. 
HIPPY Non-Terrestrial Intelligence.  NTIs.  Yeah, I like that better then UFOs.  Although that works too... Underwater Flying Objects. 
Hippy is not really mocking her.  He's actually into it.  But it has that effect.  Catfish is eyeing Lindsey like he's never seen her before. 
CATFISH Are we talkin' little space friend here? 
HIPPY Right on!  Hot rods of the Gods.  Right, Lins? Hey, no really!  It could be NTIs.  The CIA has known about them for years.  They abduct people all the time.  There was this woman I knew in Albuquerque who-- 
LINDSEY Hippy, do me a favor... stay off my side. 
Bud takes her firmly by the arm.  Heads her out into the corridor. 
BUD Lindsey, will you step into my office for a minute... 
INT. CORRIDOR/LADDER WELL                                               130 
He propels her along the corridor, away from the mess hall doorway.  They face each other in the narrow space. 
BUD Jesus, Lindsey-- 
LINDSEY Bud, something really important is happening here. 
BUD Look.  I'm just trying to hold this situation together.  I can't allow you to cause this kind of hysteria-- 
LINDSEY Who's hysterical?  Nobody's hysterical! 
They're talking across each other, not connecting.  Bud weary and frustrated. Lindsey is cranked up with the afterglow of her encounter. 
BUD All I'm saying is when you're hanging on by your fingernails, you don't go waving you arms around. 
LINDSEY I saw something!  I'm not going to go back there and say I didn't see it when I did.  I'm sorry. 
BUD God, you are the most stubborn woman I ever knew. 
LINDSEY I need you to believe me, Bud.  Look at me.  Do I seem stressed out?  Any of the symptoms of pressure sickness, any tremors, slurred speech? 
BUD No. 
LINDSEY Bud, this is me, Lindsey.  Okay?  You know me better than anybody in the world.  Now watch my lips... I saw these things.  I touched one of them.  And it wasn't some clunky steel can like we would build... it glided.  It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. 
Bud is stilled by her intensity.  She moves close to him.  Eyes alive and luminous. 
LINDSEY It was a machine, but it seems almost alive. Like a... dance of light.  Bud, you have to trust me... please.  I don't think they mean us harm.  I don't know how I know that, it's just a feeling. 
BUD How can I go on a feeling?  You think Coffey's going to go on you 'feeling'? 
LINDSEY We all see what we want to see... Coffey looks and he sees Russians, he sees hate and fear. Bud, you have to look with better eyes than that. 
Bud has been taking this all in.  His eyes tracking her face.  He closes his eyes, taking a deep breath.  It's so hard for him to do this, but... 
BUD I can't, Lindsey.  I'm sorry.  How can I? 
CUT TO: 
INT. MESS HALL -- LATER                                                 131 
Coffey has Bud, Lindsey and several of the rig crew gathered for a little summit.  Lindsey is withdrawn, sitting far from the others, a self-imposed exile.  They're all wearing warm clothes and hugging themselves.  Their breath shows in the air. 
COFFEY I want 'round-the-clock manning of the sonar shack and the exterior cameras.  We need early warning if the Soviet craft try another incursion. 
LINDSEY (rolling her eyes) Gimme a break!  Coffey, these things live three and a half miles down on the bottom of an abyssal trench!  Trust me... they're not speaking Russian. 
Coffey looks at her for a moment, then goes on as if she hadn't spoke. 
COFFEY (to One Night) Why haven't you finished repairs on the hydrophone transmitter yet? 
ONE NIGHT I was having my nails done. 
Coffey is sweating, despite the chill.  Keeps his hands clenched in fists so they won't see how bad the tremors have gotten. 
COFFEY Get something straight.  You people are under my authority-- 
CATFISH Look, podner... we don't work for you, we don't take orders from you, and we don't much like you. In addition to which your momma dresses you funny. 
Coffey's eyes are straight razors.  He slashes them from face to face.  You can see him tightening up like a clockspring, losing control of the situation in front of his own men.  Bud defuses it. 
BUD 'Fish'? 
CATFISH Yuh? 
BUD Take the first watch in sonar.  Hippy, you handle the exterior surveillance.  One Night, see if you can get that transmitter working for me, okay? 
CATFISH Maybe I oughta shave. 
Coffey stands abruptly, snags Schoenick with his eyes, and leaves, walking through the group as if they were smoke.  This cold behavior brings the mood down a notch. 
INT. CORRIDOR/MAINTENANCE ROOM B                                        151 
Outside the mess hall, Coffey pauses, listening to the conversation resume. Bright speculation, a few jokes.  Coffey is visible shaking.  Breathing hard. Pupils dilated.  Schoenick looks at him with concern. 
COFFEY It went straight for the warhead.  And they think it's cute. 
SCHOENICK You need to get some sleep. 
Coffey walks away without hearing him.  Schoenick catches up. 
INT. MAINTENANCE                                                        152 
The door opens in the dark room.  Coffey enters, moving with purpose.  He pulls his gear bag out from under the work table.  Unzips it.  Pulls out a short-barreled CAR-15 assault rifle. 
COFFEY We have no way of warning the surface.  Do you know what that means? 
Schoenick doesn't know.  He hopes Coffey knows.  Because he's a fearless man who's discovering what it is to be afraid.  Coffey inserts the magazine with a CLACK!  Snaps the bolt.  Tosses the rifle to Schoenick. 
COFFEY It means... whatever happens is up to us. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CORRIDOR/MAINTENANCE -- LATER                                      153 
Hippy passes the maintenance room.  Looks in.  The warhead and its cart are missing.  He looks around.  Heads toward the sub-bay. 
INT. MESS HALL                                                          154 
The discussion, still in progress. 
ONE NIGHT You think they're from down there originally? Or from... you know. 
She jerks her thumb toward the ceiling. 
LINDSEY I think they're from 'you know'.  Some place that has similar conditions... cold, intense pressure.  No light. 
CATFISH Happy as hogs in a waller down there, prob'ly. 
INT. CORRIDOR/SUB BAY                                                   155 
Hippy freezes in the corridor as he hears a loud ratcheting sound echoing from the sub-bay.  He edges forward slowly, trying to keep his feet silent on the steel floor.  Slides up along the wall next to the door.  Inches his eye around the doorframe.  Across the room. Schoenick is working with a chainfall, lowering Big Geek onto the MIRV warhead, which is still on its cart.  He begins to attach them together with a sling of tie-down straps. 
Hippy lets his breath out slowly.  His expression is Holy Shit. 
He slides back along the corridor wall, silently.  Away from the door.  Then turn turns quickly to go... WHAM!  Coffey slams him up against the wall! .45 pressed to Hippy's temple.  Hippy gulping air as Coffey ears back the hammer. 
COFFEY Sniff something did you, rat boy? 
INT. MESS HALL                                                          156 
The meeting is breaking up as the door CLANGS open and Hippy is thrusted inside.  His hands are taped behind his back and he stumbles onto his face. Coffey steps through smoothly, straight-arming the .45.  Schoenick flanks him with the assault rifle aimed at the group. 
COFFEY FREEZE!  Don't move.  That's it. (to Monk) Here, hold this a second.  We're going to phase three. 
He hands his gun to Monk, with the assumption of absolute loyalty from a team member.  Monk's eyes move between Coffey and the pistol.  We can't tell what he's thinking.  Coffey grabs Hippy and shoves him onto a chair. 
HIPPY They're using Big Geek to take the bomb to the NTIs!  We set it up to go right to them. 
Lindsey looks stricken.  Her plan is betraying them all. 
LINDSEY Oh my God...  Oh no... (steps toward Coffey) Please, you can't.  Coffey, think about what you're doing... for God's sake-- 
Coffey lets her approach him, his eyes glittering. 
Without warning he grabs her by the hair and hurls her against the Coke machine, pinning her there with one hand.  Bud leaps forward. 
SCHOENICK GET BACK! 
Bud freezes.  The rifle's muzzle is aimed for a heart-shot. 
Coffey moves up close to Lindsey. 
COFFEY This is something I've wanted to do since I first met you. 
His hand reaches down, OUT OF FRAME.  We hear something RIP.  His hand comes back up... holding a piece of gaffer's tape. 
He slaps it over her mouth.  Then pushes her down into a chair. 
Hippy looks at Monk and Schoenick. 
HIPPY You boss is having a full-on meltdown.  Guy's fixing to pull the pin on fifty kilotons and we're all ringside! 
MONK What's the timer set for? 
SCHOENICK Three hours. 
Coffey releases the ROV with the gripper and makes a grab at Bud with the steel claw.  Bud dives.  The gripper hits his helmet a glancing blow.  Bud kicks away rapidly, letting nylon rope pay out.  We see he has managed to tie one end to Geek's skids.  Coffey hits the button to activate the ROV, sending an acoustic pulse to Geek's transponder.  The little robot, pregnant with its load of death, turns nimbly around and dives out and down toward the void. 
Coffey pivots his bid machine toward Bud.  Bud strokes rapidly to a large jumble of wreckage.  He loops the rope around a twisted pipe.  Big Geek is hauling ass away from him.  The line snap taut an instant later.  The ROV strains, like a Rottweiler on a leash... trying to go.  The rope is slipping as Bud fights to make a knot. 
Flatbed slews around, thrusters whining.  As it banks, it hurls up clouds of sediment from the escarpment face. 
Through the front panel we see Coffey jerking on the controls. 
The big arm extends menacingly.  The smaller from manipulators open.  An enormous predatory instinct, its lights blaring. 
The big machine roars forward.  Straight at Bud. 
Bud gets his knot partly done.  See Flatbed looming. 
Glare-lit in its lights, Bud grabs a handlehold and pulls himself downward as Coffey closes the last few feet. 
One manipulator slams into his backpack, tumbling him, and the sub's underside rakes across his legs as it passes over.  Flatbed crushes into the tangle of pipework.  K-CRUUUNCH!! 
INT. FLATBED                                                            182 
Coffey is slammed hard over the controls, up into the front dome port.  He gets back in the seat.  Strains to free his machine. 
EXT. DEEPCORE/BIG GEEK/FLATBED                                          183 
Bud swims clear, diving down at an angle along the wall, hoping to stay in Coffey's blind area.  Flatbed backs out of the wreckage in a cloud of debris. It pivots toward Bud.  Moves after him. 
Nearby, the ROV is whining mindlessly, trying to please.  Trying to GO. DETAIL OF ROPE attached to wreckage, as Bud's knot begins to slip.  The nylon line starts to play through the knot slowly. 
BUD has gotten himself into a bad position.  Along the bare rock face of the cliff wall he is naked, nailed in the spotlights like a rabbit in front of a truck.  Coffey puts the hammer down, thrust levers all the way forward. Flatbed surges forward, multi-limbed and demonic.  There's no cover, side to side, up or down. 
Coffey has him head in his lights.  Suddenly a bright glare blasts in, blinding Coffey.  He looks up to see Cab One rushing down upon him, full throttle. 
At the last moment LIndsey slams the thrusters full-lock and the submersible slews sideways, slamming its heavy skidplate into Flatbed's cab.  Coffey is smashed sideways by the shock.  He fights to control his vehicle.  Lindsey looks up to see Coffey's sub gun it up over the wall, out of sight.  She cruises up over Bud. 
LINDSEY (V.O.) Get in! 
Bud gets the lockout hatch open and clambers up into Cab One's belly. 
INT./EXT. CAB ONE                                                       184 
Bud flops over the lip of the hatch and slams it shut.  He ditches his helmet. Lindsey raises her vehicle warily above the wall.  Through the front port there is not sign of Coffey. 
LINDSEY You owe me one, Virgil. 
BUD Can we negotiate later?  There's Big Geek. 
He points.  Through the front port, they can see the ROV still straining at its leash.  Lindsey dives toward it, simultaneously working the controls to open her own small manipulator claws. 
EXT. DEEPCORE/WALL, ETC.                                                185 
The last few feet of the rope slip through the knot. 
Big Geek happily surges forward.  It dives gracefully down into the void, trailing the yellow rope like a kite tail. 
ONE CAB ONE, Bud and Lindsey through the front port. 
BUD Go after it!  We gotta catch it! 
FLATBED DROPS INTO FRAME BEHIND THEM, dwarfing little Cab One.  They are slammed viciously as Coffey's submersible hammers into them.  She hits full throttle.  Coffey floors it after Lindsey, ramming her from behind with his more powerful vehicle.  With difficulty Lindsey maintains trim. 
She arcs back toward the rig.  Flatbed slams her again, for the side.  She fights for control. 
INT./EXT. CAB ONE                                                       186 
Bud is tossed around, ricocheting off the walls.  Lindsey flies with her jaw set.  Fighting hard for control.  The A-frame of the rig looms before her. She shoots through at full throttle. 
EXT. DEEPCORE AND OCEAN TERRAIN                                         187 
Now the fight is really on.  The two subs are dodging between the cylindrical modules at full throttle, slamming into each other and the steel pressure hulls. 
Coffey sideswipes the smaller sub, jamming it sideways.  It screeches along the flank of one of the trimodules. 
They head out over empty terrain in a flat-out speed run. 
Lindsey is jinking and dodging as Flatbed, roars along behind her, tearing up the bottom with its powerful backwash.  Lindsey carves hard around a rock pinnacle, finding herself running parallel to the edge of the abyssal canyon. Coffey is ramming, hammering from behind, then from side to side. 
Lindsey snarls.  He's pissing her off.  He shouldn't do that. 
Ahead, out of the blackness, another outcropping. 
Lindsey rises, cuts right. 
Smashes down into Coffey's craft.  Timing it just right.  He skids catch in the rocks. 
Flatbed slews violently, nosing down.  Crushing into the rocky bottom. Pressing the advantage, Lindsey hammers into Flatbed from behind. 
It smashes full force into a second spire, spinning out of control. 
Tangles together, the subs slide down an embankment toward the edge of the wall.  With her one remaining thruster she jerks clear of Flatbed and grounds her crippled sub.  Flatbed tumbles over the edge. 
BUD Son of a bitch! 
LINDSEY Calm down, Bud. 
A nervous edge in her voice now.  Bud's turning all around, looking around for anything, trying to think fast.  Water up to their waists.  The sea closing in. 
BUD Okay... okay.  We gotta get you out of here. 
LINDSEY How? 
BUD I don't know how! 
LINDSEY We've only got one suit. 
BUD I know!  I know!  But we better come up with something. 
LINDSEY Aaargh!!  I'm freezing! 
She climbs up on the pilots seat, scrunching right up against the ceiling, keeping as much of herself as possible out of the frigid water.  She's shaking all over with the cold, and getting drenched from above by water pouring in. 
LINDSEY Okay, look, you swim to the rig and come back with another suit. 
BUD Seven, eight minute swim each way... not enough time.  Look at this... (the rate of flooding) Time I get back you'll be-- 
That stops the conversation for a second.  About two feet of airspace left. Bud can't believe what this is coming down to.  They both stare at each other for a long moment. 
He makes a decision.  Starts pulling off his backpack. 
BUD Alright, put this on. 
LINDSEY What, you growing gills all of a sudden?  You got it on, keep it on. 
BUD Don't argue, goddamnit, just-- 
LINDSEY No way!  Forget it.  Not an option. 
Bud has his pack off uncoupling it.  She keeps fighting his hands, stopping him, hooking it back up.  The desperation of the situation fuel the struggle. 
BUD Lindsey, just put the thing on and shut up-- 
LINDSEY NO!!  Now be logical, Bud, you're-- 
BUD FUCK LOGIC!! 
They're both right up against the ceiling, water up to their chests. Lindsey's lips are blue and trembling from the cold. 
LINDSEY Listen... will you listen to me for a second!? You're for the suit on and you're a better swimmer than me.  Right?  So I got a plan... 
BUD What's the plan? 
LINDSEY I drown, you tow me back to the rig-- 
BUD WHAT KIND OF PLAN IS THAT!?? 
Lindsey's gut-scared... shaking violently, her eyes wide.  But she's keeping it together.  Thinking it out.  Bud see the bottomless pit opening to take her and he can barely think. 
LINDSEY Look, this water is only a couple degrees above freezing.  I drown.  I go into deep hypothermia... my blood like icewater.  I can maybe be revived after ten, fifteen minutes.  You got all the stuff to do it on the rig. 
Bud stops moving and looks into her face, inches from him.  The water is up to their necks.  He knows that, as always, infuriatingly, Lindsey is right. 
BUD It is insane. 
LINDSEY It's the only way, Bud.  Now trust me. 
She takes a deep breath.  Before her nerve fails she busies her hands on his suit, rehooking everything. 
BUD Jesus, I don't believe this is happening. 
She raise his helmet.  Water up to their chins.  They lock eyes, inches apart.  He can feel her breath on his face... maybe for the last time. 
BUD Oh God, Lins... I-- 
LINDSEY Tell me later. 
He grabs her head in both hands and pulls her mouth to his.  They lock together in a fierce kiss, fueled by passion and terror... the naked realization of love hanging over the abyss of death. 
She breaks away at the last possible second and quickly pulls his helmet over his head.  Seats is down over the neck ring.  Lock the bail-out handle, sealing it.  Even with her head press up into the highest point of the ceiling, Lindsey's mouth is barely above water.  She give a scared little laugh. 
LINDSEY This is maybe not such a great plan, is it? 
She is half-paralyzed with the cold, shaking pathetically.  Puts her face to the glass of his helmet.  Seconds to go. 
LINDSEY Hold me.  Hold me, Bud... I'm so scared... 
He can't hear her, but he read her lips.  They clutch each other desperately. The embrace last while the water rises over her mouth and nose.  She starts to choke.  Her hands grip his shoulders like claws.  She bucks and thrashes. Bud holds her, and a scream tears loose from him, a pure agony of the soul. 
BUD NOOOOO!!! 
The freezing seawater races into her lungs.  Her finger go slack, and her hands float lifelessly. 
BUD No!  NO!  She's not... her heart is strong, she wants to live... can't you see that?  Come on, Lins.  Come on, baby!  Zap her again!  Do it... DO IT! 
They do.  And Bud works, feverishly.  He lock his lips over hers and starts mouth-to-mouth.  It is frantic, passionate... the kiss of life. 
BUD Come on, breath!  Goddamn it, you bitch, you never backed down from anything in life... now fight! 
He slaps her face, hard.  Her head lolls.  He smacks her the other way. 
BUD Fight, Goddamnit! 
LINDSEY's POV, from the bottom of the great well.  The circles of faces and light rockets toward us in the blackness, as we soar upward from the pit.  We see Bud yelling, but his voice is distant, windlike. 
BUD FIGHT!! 
TIGHT ON LINDSEY, still.  Then something incredible happens.  Something they will never forget as long as they live.  Lindsey coughs once, weakly, and her hands clench in a spasm. 
Bud see it and his expression becomes beatific. 
BUD Come on, Lins.  You can do it... fight your way back, baby... 
The others look on in wonder as Bud wills this woman back. 
She starts to cough, weakly at first... then more violently as she draws air into her lungs.  Bud crouches over her, rubbing her limbs... trying to re- establish circulation.  It is like a difficult birth.  Lindsey comes hacking and howling back into the world, wet and naked and fighting for breath. 
Bud puts the oxygen mask over her face and she draws breath after agonized breath.  He pushes her wet hair back from her face with his trembling hands, and watches her breathe.  Color is returning to her skin as she lies there, gasping weakly. 
ONE THE GROUP... Catfish, Hippy, One Night, Jammer, the others... they're all grinning, crying, beaming... gazing at the miracle of her rebirth. 
ON BUD... tears are streaming down his face. 
BUD (a whisper, fierce and harsh) You did it, ace. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. DEEPCORE/QUARTERS -- LATER                                         196 
TIGHT ON LINDSEY, sleeping peacefully.  WIDER shows Bud hovering over her, attentive.  They are alone in Bud's tiny cubicle.  Perhaps twenty minutes have passed.  She is completely swaddles in blankets, except for her face, and looks like a waif. 
Lindsey's eyes flutter and open.  The first thing she sees is Bud, bending over her.  He can't help himself.  The tears break again and roll down his cheeks.  She seems terribly fragile, but bright and aware.  She smiles, faintly... touches his cheek. 
LINDSEY Hey... big boys don't cry, remember? 
BUD Hi, lady. 
LINDSEY Hi, tough guy.  I guess it worked, huh? 
BUD 'Course is worked.  You're never wrong, are you? How d'you feel. 
LINDSEY I've been better.  Next time it's your turn, okay? 
Bud's expression turn inexplicably grim. 
BUD Well, you got that right. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SUB-BAY                                                            197 
TIGHT ON BUD'S EYES, as Monk's fingers insert acrylic scleral lenses under his eyelids so he can see in the fluid helmet. 
WIDER reveals Bud is wearing the SEALs' deep suit.  Everybody is grouped around, buckling and zipping.  He is hyperventilating with an oxygen mask, part of the procedure for transitioning from air to fluid breathing.  Monk, on his stretcher, is presiding.  The resident expert.  Lindsey is wrapped in a blanket, still looking wan and frail.  She doesn't have the strength to resist Bud's will, but she's trying. 
LINDSEY No, Bud, no... not you. 
BUD Who then? 
She looks around at the others.  Sees their eyes.  The fear.  Has her answer. He lowers the helmet over his head.  Catfish clamps it down.  We see what's driving him... his sense of responsibility for these people, for not being able to prevent this situation. 
He touches her cheek, one last time.  She sees his fingers are trembling. Then he puts on the gloves.  Catifsh is strapping a KEYPAD UNIT onto Bud's forearm.  Lindsey wants to scream... to stop this madness. 
BUD (muffled) So I'll hear you, but I can't talk? 
MONK The fluid prevents your larynx from making sound.  It'll feel a little strange. 
BUD (muffled) Warning you now, folks, I'm a lousy typist. (a beat) The moment of truth, huh? 
His breathing is shallow and tense.  He looks at Lindsey.  The eyes of a condemned man.  She squeezes his hand.  He takes a deep breath. 
BUD Okay.  Let's rock and roll. 
Monk gently cracks a valve on the suit's feed line.  The breathing fluid (3M fluorocarbon emulsion FX-80) swirls into the helmet.  Bud reflexively raises his chin.  The liquid fills toward his mouth. 
MONK Relax now, Bud.  Just keep breathing as it fills... don't fight it.  Take it in.  Just let yourself take it in. 
Suddenly, there's nothing in there to breathe but liquid.  His eyes go wide, instant panic.  He starts to thrash.  Chest heaving. 
MONK Hold him.  Hold him.  This is normal... it'll pass in a second.  You're gonna be okay.  We all breathe liquid for nine months, Bud.  Your body will remember. 
Lindsey grabs Bud's shoulders, steadying him.  He finds her eyes, the look calming him.  He's passed into a realm from which she has already returned. His spasms subside.  He begins to "breathe" normally.  He gets a goofy look of wonder on his face, not really believing what he's experiencing.  He is alive, alert and quite completely drowned inside the FBS helmet.  He grins. Gives a big thumbs up.  Lindsey picks up a microphone. 
BLAM!  Bud jerks as his dive light implodes.  He still has Geek's floodlights. He falls on. 
INT. CONTROL MODULE                                                     205 
HIPPY 12000 feet.  Jesus, I don't believe he's doing this. 
LINDSEY Shut up, Hippy.  Bud, how you doing? 
He types: SE LUMINUS THINNGS 
Everyone snaps suddenly alert. 
HIPPY Uh, oh... 
LINDSEY What kind of luminous things, Bud? 
CATFISH Maybe it's... you know... them. 
The screen prints out:  ITS OK. SQUID. GLOWING SQUID. 
EXT. THE ABYSS                                                          206 
Bud is in an enormous school of bioluminescent squid, graceful, attenuated creatures less than a foot long.  Thousands of then glide in ghostly arcs around him, filling the black void as far as the eye can see.  He stares at them in wonder.  Reaches out and touches one, catches it, lets it go.  Are they really here?  He can no longer be sure of his own perceptions. 
INT. CONTROL MODULE                                                     207 
Another message from Bud:  THINK THEYR REAL. 
MONK He's losing it.  Talk to him.  Keep him with us. 
LINDSEY Bud, it's the pressure.  Try to concentrate. Concentrate on my voice.  Just listen to my voice. 
EXT. THE ABYSS                                                          208 
Bud emerges from the school of squid.  As he falls, they form a luminous plane of swirling colors above him.  He stares upwards, transfixed.  BUD'S POV, the ghostly blizzard of luminescence above him.  A spectral form takes shape in the patternless glow... resolving into Lindsey's face, a hundred feet wide. Gazing down at him, her expression sad.  Her image receded away from him into the darkness above as he falls. 
DOWN ANGLE ON BUD, reaching up in anguish. 
INT. CONTROL MODULE                                                     209 
Lindsey watches as Bud haltingly types out:  YOUR GOING AWAY 
LINDSEY I'm not going away, Bud.  I'm right here, right here with you.  This is Lindsey, Bud.  I'm right here. 
ONE NIGHT Signal's fading. 
HIPPY We're losing juice... kill everything we don't need.  Catfish, knock out those lights. 
Everyone hustles to comply.  The room is plunged into darkness, the faces of the group lit only by the ghostly CRT screen. 
ONE NIGHT Run it through the digital processor, cook it as much as you can. 
CATFISH Seventeen thousand feet.  Good Christ Almighty, this is insane. 
EXT. THE ABYSS                                                          210 
Bud is shaking violently, as if with palsy.  His eyes keep rolling back, and he's having a hard time staying conscious.  He tries to type a message and he can't.  The tons of pressure per square inch are short-circuiting his nervous system.  Suddenly K-BAM!  Little Geek's pressure hull implodes.  Its lights go out.  BLACKNESS. 
INT. CONTROL MODULE                                                     211 
ONE NIGHT Little Geek just folded. 
HIPPY Bye, little buddy. 
MONK He can still make it. 
LINDSEY I know how alone you feel... alone in all that cold blackness... but I'm there in the dark with you, Bud you're not alone... 
Lindsey seems not to be in the room, but to be with him, seeing what he sees. She is oblivious to the others. 
EXT. THE ABYSS                                                          212 
Blackness.  Then a bright light appears... he's lit a MAGNESIUM FLARE. 
It's fierce, flickering glare lights his plunge.  Bud discards the stalwart little ROV and free-falls like a skydiver without a chute.  Out of control, he hits a ledge and rolls off.  Tumbles forward in a cloud of debris.  He hits another outcropping, limp as a rag doll.  Rocks and sand rain down with him as he continues his descent. 
Bud us quivering, teeth locked in a titanic rigor. 
He pulls his arms and legs slowly into a fetal position. 
In the plunge toward death he has gone he has gone full circle, returned to the womb in which we all breathe the water of life before we know the world of air and light.  Still, there is Lindsey's voice, faintly in his helmet. 
LINDSEY (V.O.) You remember that time, you were pretty drunk, you probably don't remember... the power went out at the old apartment, the one on Orange Street... and we were staring at that one little candle, and I said something really dumb like that candle is me, like every one of us is out there alone in the dark in this life... 
INT. CONTROL MODULE                                                     213 
TIGHT ON LINDSEY as she grips the microphone.  Her voice has become a hoarse whisper.  Her eyes are intense, focused on a point far beyond the walls of the room. 
LINDSEY ... and you lit another candle and put it beside mine and said "that's me"... and we stared at the two candles, and then we... well, if you remember any of it, I'm sure you remember the next part.  Bud, there are two candles in the dark.  I'm with you.  I'll always be with you. 
A woman is collapsed on a bench, crying. 
A man is on his knees, shaking. 
Total strangers hug each other. 
A black guy, tears pouring down his face, turns to the camera with a beautific grin. 
GUY Somebody just laid it down to us, man.  Things ain't never gonna be the same! 
PULL BACK to reveal that we are in the... 
INT. FINAL CHAMBER                                                      238 
Bud sits, shaken, watching the screen, as people react to their deliverance. He turns to the NTIs. 
BUD Why?  You could've done it.  Why didn't you? 
The screen darkens.  Then letters appears on it, slowly printing out, as if someone was clumsily typing them. 
WE KNEW THIS WAS... 
And we've seen this before so we know the rest... 
WE KNEW THIS WAS A ONE WAY TICKET WHEN I PUT THIS THING ON.  BUT YOU KNOW I HAD TO COME. 
A pause, then: 
LOVE YOU WIFE 
The last message expands to fill the entire screen. 
Bud stares at the screen, at his message of self-sacrifice, then at the aliens.  They bow their heads, just for a moment.  A sign of respect. 
CLOSE ON BUD as he begins to realize what has happened. 
CUT TO: 
INT. DEEPCORE/CONTROL MODULE                                            239 
Lindsey is slumped in a chair, just staring.  Withdrawn. 
The others are conserving oxygen and heat, huddling in the dark. 
The air is looking pretty thick.  The speaker of the hydrophone transceiver crackles to life. 
MCBRIDE (V.O.) Deepcore, do you read?  This is Benthic Explorer, over. 
CATFISH Hell yes, we read!  Good of you to join us.  How's that storm doin'? 
MCBRIDE Well, it's strange... it just kind've blew itself out all of the sudden.  We're up here in a flat sea with no wind.  But then a lot of weird things've been happening. 
CATFISH Well, hell, son.  You better get us a line down here, we're in moderately poor shape. 
LATER, Hippy, Catfish, and Monk are conferring B.G. on how to get a new umbilical hooked on.  One Night is talking to McBride on the hydrophone. 
MCBRIDE They figure is was over a half mile high. 
ONE NIGHT I wish I could have seen it-- 
She glances down at the telemetry screen, seeing movement. 
ONE NIGHT Hey.  Hey!  HEY!!  Look... it's Bud. 
MONK That's impossible. 
Lindsey bolts to the screen.  Stares at the message printing out. 
A huge grin wraps around her face. 
LINDSEY No it's not. 
MCBRIDE (V.O.) What's it say? 
Lindsey take the mike and sits before the screen.  During the message, her voice will go through an emotional spectrum from confusion to wonder, to a childlike joy. 
INTERCUT BETWEEN DEEPCORE AND EXPLORER BRIDGE DURING THE FOLLOWING: 
LINDSEY It says... "VIRGIL BRIGMAN BACK ON THE AIR/HAVE SOME NEW FRIENDS DOWN HERE/I GUESS THEYVE BEEN HERE AWHILE/ THEYVE LEFT US ALONE BUT IT BOTHERS THEM TO SEE US HURTING EACH OTHER/GETTING OUT OF HAND LATELY" 
Lindsey grins as she reads the next part... 
LINSEY "THEY SENT A MESSAGE/HOPE YOU GOT IT" 
CATFISH I'd say that's a big 10-4, jack. 
LINDSEY "THEY WANT US TO GROW UP A BIT AND PUT AWAY CHILDISH THINGS/OF COURSE ITS JUST A SUGGESTION." 
INT. BENTHIC EXPLORER BRIDGE -- DAY                                     240 
