CUT TO: 
EXT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT 
Wade steps outside, notices Jack Hewitt and his kewpie-doll girlfriend HETTIE, 20, sitting in the cab of his double-parked pickup, sharing a joint, talking to LaCoy alongside. 
WADE I thought I told you to move that truck! 
JACK Relax, Chief. We're leaving. You wanna toke? 
WADE (steps over) You gotta be more careful about that shit. Gordon or one of those guys sees you smoking that wacky tabacky around me they'll expect me to bust you. And I'll be outta a job. 
JACK Some job. Here, have a hit. Don't be such a hardass. I know you got problems, but everybody's got problems. (offers joint) 
WADE Not here. 
LaCoy laughs: that Jack Hewitt, some guy. Wade holds his aching jaw. He looks at Jack's young athletic body, his pretty girlfriend, envies him. 
JACK Well, c'mon, then. Get in and we'll take a little ride, my man. 
Wade looks up to the window where Jill waits, walks around the front of the truck, gets in. 
CUT TO: 
INT./EXT. JACK'S TRUCK - NIGHT 
Jack's high-bodied pickup growls in low gear as it drives past Merritt's Shell station toward Saddleback Ridge. Jack lowers the radio as Wade asks him about deer season; Hettie leans forward to hear the music. 
JACK Got a job first thing in the morning, first day of season. Saturday I'll hunt for myself. Twombley something. - Er -- 
WADE Evan. He's a mucky-muck union official from Massachusetts. You're lucky. 
JACK Don't know about lucky. The guy's a full-blown asshole. Pay's good, though. $100 a day. I got to guarantee a kill, of course. Which I can do. There's some monster bucks hiding out up there. 
WADE How'd you get the job? 
JACK Gordon, he's always got some angle working. He wants to keep Twombley happy, I'm his boy. 
Wade grimaces as he passes the joint back. 
HETTIE What's wrong with you? 
WADE Toothache. (to Jack) You should get close to him. Make yourself irreplaceable. Guy's loaded. 
JACK Like you and Gordon? 
WADE Right. The sonofabitch couldn't get along without me. 
JACK (laughs) Yeah, he'd go broke tomorrow if you quit him. 
WADE (laughs) Right! 
A car flashes past. 
JACK Bastard's got his high beams on. 
WADE (watching) Shit. 
HETTIE What? 
WADE My ex-wife Lillian and her husband. That was them in the Audi that just passed us. 
Wade looks down, picks up Horner's dark green Tyrolean hat, examines it, as if unsure of its function. 
Wade walks toward Town Hall. MARGIE FOGG, exiting, greets him: 
MARGIE New hat? (no answer) Jill's up, I see. 
WADE (vague) For a while. 
MARGIE How's she doing? 
WADE Okay. She's fine. 
MARGIE You two want to do anything tomorrow and need a third party, give me a call, okay? I'm off. 
NICK WICKHAM, 45, Marg's boss, passes by: 
WICKHAM Like hell you are. Tomorrow's first day of deer season. I'll need you at least in the morning. 
MARGIE (shrugs) Well, that's that. 
NICK (walks off) Take care, Wade. 
WADE You be careful of that little bastard. He's dying to get in your pants, you know. 
MARGIE (laughs) Don't worry. I can protect my virtue. I mean, c'mon, Wade, give me a break. 
WADE See you tomorrow, maybe. 
MARGIE You okay? 
WADE Yeah. 
Wade, lost in thought, continues toward Town Hall. At the door, LaRiviere, one of the last to leave, eyes him. Wade tosses Horner's hat inside. 
WADE Tomorrow, Gordon. 
LARIVIERE Watch this snow. It's coming down tonight. 
Wade nods as he lights a cigarette. Alone, he watches the last cars pull out. He holds his jaw. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. WADE'S TRAILER HOME - DAWN 
Pre-dawn light silhouettes a dozen weather-beaten mobile homes set off Route 29. Snow continues to fall. A sheet of white stretches down Parker mountain. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WADE'S TRAILER - DAWN 
6:40. A clock radio pierces the silence with classic rock. Wade Whitehouse rolls over, runs his tongue across mossy teeth, shuts off the music. He looks out the window, grunts: "Shit!" He steps over to the phone by the frayed plaid couch, dials. 
Wade's trailer is surprisingly neat, considering its owner smokes too much, drinks too much, eats take-out and rarely cleans up. 
WADE (on phone) Lugene? Wade. Hoya doin? (fumbles for cigarette) Look, I was wondering, with the snow and all, if you got school today? (lights cigarette) How the hell do I know? You're the principal. All I'm supposed to do is direct traffic from 7:30 to 8:30. (listens) Yeah, okay, I'm sorry -- I only just now saw it was snowing, that's all. My whole day is fucked. I gotta plow all day. If I don't get over to LaRiviere's early enough, I'm stuck with the grader. I was just hoping you'd have called school off. (beat) You check the weather bureau? (acquiesces) Okay, I hear you. I'll be over in a bit. (hangs up) 
CUT TO: 
EXT. WADE'S TRAILER HOME EARLY - MORNING 
Jack Hewitt's 4x4 passes Wade's trailer, continues up 29. Tire chains splice the path. 
LUGENE Did you get his number? 
WADE I know who it is. 
LUGENE Good. Who? 
WADE Mel Gordon. 
LUGENE I still don't understand -- 
WADE From Boston. Evan Twombley's son-in- law -- he was driving. I know where they're headed. Up the lake, Agaway. The old man's out deer hunting with Jack Hewitt, so they probably got some big weekend party planned. 
Wade sets his face, thinking. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. WOODS - DAY 
Snowprints lead from Jack's pickup to where he and Twombley walk, guns pointed skyward. They enter a line of trees. 
Jack watches Twombley walk ahead of him, wrapped like a huge infant in red bunting, crunching twigs underfoot. He looks from side to side, checks his gun, returns to watching Twombley. They're alone. 
JACK Safety on? 
Twombley nods, slips, thumps to the ground. His rifle lands silently. 
Jack sprints over, helps him up, safety latches the Winchester. Hands it back. 
TWOMBLEY I'm okay. 
JACK Follow close. We'll cross the next meadow. 
Jack finds a path, one eye on Twombley: 
JACK I used to play ball. 
TWOMBLEY Yeah? 
JACK Drafted by the Red Sox. 
TWOMBLEY You played for the Sox? 
JACK Double A. New Britain. 
TWOMBLEY Oh. 
JACK Pitcher. "Best ballplayer to come out of New Hampshire since Carlton Fisk." 
TWOMBLEY Really. 
JACK They said. 
TWOMBLEY Hmm. 
JACK The only difference between me and that Clemens on TV is luck, shit luck. 
TWOMBLEY What happened? 
JACK Ruined my arm. Brought me along too fast. Why'd it have to be my fucking arm, I used to think. Then I realized it had to be somebody's fucking arm. 
Jack waits for Twombley as they enter a meadow. Jack aims his rifle at Twombley as he approaches. 
Twombley peers over a slight cliff at a lumber trail twenty feet below. Jack points: 
JACK Fresh tracks. (sniffs) Deer shit. Big one. Here's your buck, Mr. Twombley. I'll circle around. 
TWOMBLEY You only got a little while if you want your hundred bucks. 
Jack zig-zags down the incline, while Twombley, gun poised, waddles along the edge. 
Jack stops fifty feet away, watches Twombley, a cartoon character. A stag pokes his nose through the pines, steps into a clearing. Jack aims his rifle, looks at Twombley. 
Twombley turns to see the buck, loses his footing, TUMBLES down the twenty-foot cliff. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. TOBY'S INN - DAY 
An open cab grader ("Our Business Is Going In The Hole") sits in the rutted lot outside Toby's, a beer joint with fake wood siding and 24-hour neon sign. 
A four-wheel drive plow with the LaRiviere motto pulls in, parks beside the blue grader. JIMMY DAME, 40, gets out, glances at the grader as he enters. 
CUT TO: 
INT. TOBY'S INN - DAY 
Jimmy joins Wade at the bar, calls for a beer. Frankie LaCoy bullshits with two long-haired locals at a nearby table; their conversation drifts in and out. Country music plays through a broken juke box speaker. Wade touches his tooth, grimaces. 
JIMMY How's it goin? 
WADE Cold. How you think? 
JIMMY Sorry about that. Why's it every year, come first snow, you get stuck with the grader? 
WADE School. Traffic crossing. (lights cigarette) I gotta quit these things. 
JIMMY What we doing after? Wells? (Wade nods) Don't work too fast. Business the way it is, Gordon's probably looking to lay me off earlier than usual this year. He's got too much money as it is. Why's it always the little guy that gets kicked in the butt in hard times? 
Wade shrugs. LaCoy's conversation has caught his ear. He turns to watch. 
LACOY ...That was no pisser. I'll tell you who was a pisser. Glen Whitehouse. There was a real pisser. He was mean normal, but when he drank it was like he burst on fire. Canadian Club. Always drank CC. One Christmas there's this cord of wood out back he forgot about and he decides to have his two boys stack it. Except it's been out back two months and it's snowed and rained and froze so now the wood's all iced in. He takes the boys. He was drunk, of course. 
Wade's face as the story comes to life: 
CUT TO: 
EXT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY (1964) 
Thirty years before. GLEN WHITEHOUSE ("POP"), 42, pushes his boys, Wade (13) and Rolfe (10), toward snow-covered lumps of firewood behind the barn. He's drunk. The boys carry shovels and a pickaxe. 
POP Move it! Daylight in the swamps! 
ROLFE Pop, the kids are waiting for us. 
WADE (reproving) Rolfe. 
POP A lesson in work and its rewards. You'll thank me for this one day. (to house) Sally, turn off that TV! 
His sons chip at the wood. Hopeless. Frozen solid. 
WADE (to Rolfe) Just do it. 
POP Atta-go. 
WADE It don't look right. 
NICK What? 
WADE The sign. It looks like it's spelled wrong or something. 
NICK Fuck. Wade Whitehouse. It's people like you that keep this fucking town from prospering. Whatever somebody does to improve things around here, you gotta find fault with it. 
WADE I'm not finding fault. It's a good idea, good for you, good for the town. Real modern too. 
NICK This town sucks. 
WADE Aw, c'mon, I was only saying there's something wrong with "Home Made Cooking", that's all. The sign's fine. What it says is wrong. 
Margie Fogg heads over, sits: 
MARGIE Who needs it? Everybody who comes here has been coming for years so what they need a sign for? 
Nick goes back to work. 
MARGIE You okay? 
WADE Yeah. 
MARGIE I'm sorry about what I said. 
WADE Said what? 
MARGIE About you and Jill and needing a third person. She went back to Lillian? 
WADE Forget it. 
MARGIE (touches his arm) I'm sorry. 
WADE I'm going to start one of those custody suits. I don't give a fucking shit. You know? 
Wade's eyes well up. 
MARGIE You don't mean that. 
WADE Yeah. I mean that. 
MARGIE (arm around his shoulders) No you don't. You're pissed, that's all. You ought to cool off for a few days then have a long talk with Lillian. You know? Work it out with her, tell her how you feel. Lillian's not out to get you. 
WADE The hell she isn't. Lillian's been trying to nail me to a cross since the day I met her. I'm gonna hire me a fucking lawyer from Concord and get this thing, this divorce thing, rearranged. I've been thinking about it a lot. It's like she owns Jill or something. Nobody owns nobody, especially not kids. And I pay her. 
NICK (calls) Marg! 
WADE That goddamned woman. Thinks she can cart Jill off and leave me alone like this. I'm more than pissed, Margie. I'm a whole lot more than pissed. I been that plenty and I know the difference. This is different. 
NICK Marg! You got orders! 
Wade and Margie stand. She wants to kiss him. 
MARGIE Call me. 
WADE (genuine) Tonight. Let's get together. 
MARGIE Okay. 
Wade meets Nick halfway to the door. 
LARIVIERE You ain't the hunter Jack is. And he can't drive the grader worth shit. 
WADE Like hell. 
Ahead, they see flashing lights and cars. A white emergency vehicle passes, jolting the pickup. 
LARIVIERE (frightened) That must've been Twombley. Jesus. I bet that was Twombley. 
WADE You want me to follow them to Littleton? 
LARIVIERE Let's get to the top and talk to Jack first. He'll know what happened. He fucking better. If this coulda been avoided, I'll put that kid's ass in a sling. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ACCIDENT SCENE - DAY 
Wade pulls behind three state trooper cars. Jack stands joking with the TROOPERS, one of whom holds a German shepherd on a leash. LaRiviere and Wade jump out. Jack, suddenly serious, turns to LaRiviere: 
JACK You heard the news. 
LARIVIERE I hear Twombley got shot. 
JACK Yeah. 
Wade walks over to trooper ASA BROWN, pets the shepherd. 
BROWN Watch the dog, Wade. Takes a mind to, he'll tear your fucking head off. 
LARIVIERE (to Jack) Bad? 
BROWN Thirty-thirty at close range. 
LARIVIERE Jesus. 
WADE Will he make it? 
BROWN (shakes head) D.O.A. Blew the bastard wide open. Had a hole in back you could put your head into. Pretty big hole in front too. You could've put your fist into that one. 
LARIVIERE (to Jack) You see it? 
JACK Nope. Heard it. We wasn't far apart. I spotted this buck, then I heard the gun go off and Twombley was gone. I looked over the little cliff we was using for a stand and there the fucker was, deader'n shit. Called it right in. 
LARIVIERE This is gonna be one fucking mess to clean up. Twombley's son-in-law and daughter are up the weekend. Didn't you say you'd seen him, Wade? 
WADE I seen 'em. Near ran me over. 
BROWN You wanna tell 'em, Gordon? You knew the old man. 
LARIVIERE What the fuck. My day's already ruined. (to Wade) Give me the keys. You can go back with Jack. You still got a shitload of plowing to do. 
WADE It ain't done, if that's what you mean. 
LARIVIERE Something bugging you? 
WADE Yeah. A few things. 
LARIVIERE Well, right now we're not too interested. Finish up what you gotta do, then you can get bugged on your own time. 
Brown walks off with shepherd. 
LARIVIERE (to Jack) Might as well take the rest of the day off. You look sort of fucked up. You've been paid for the day, anyhow, right? 
CUT TO: 
INT. WADE'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
Late. Wade Whitehouse, lying in bed with an icepack on his cheek, talks on the phone: 
WADE Rolfe. 
ROLFE (O.S.) Wade? 
WADE Yeah, brother, look, I was calling cause -- has there been anything on TV in Boston about a hunting accident with a guy named Twombley, Evan Twombley? 
ROLFE (O.S.) There was something. It happened up your way. 
WADE Yeah, I know him -- the kid that was with him. Maybe you do too. Jack Hewitt. He works for LaRiviere with me. He's my best friend. 
ROLFE (O.S.) Wade, it's late. I know you're probably at Toby's, but I'm in bed reading. We got different habits. 
WADE No, not tonight. I'm in bed too. I'm calling because I need you to listen. You're supposed to be a smart guy. You're a professor. I got this theory. Jack says he didn't see Twombley shot but he did. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ACCIDENT SCENE - DAY 
Wade's theory -- in black-and-white: Twombley's footing slips. Jack turns to watch. Twombley's gun hits frozen rocks, fires, blows a hole through his chest. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WADE'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
WADE It'll come out Jack lied and the kid'll get hung for it. 
ROLFE (O.S.) He was scheduled to testify for a committee investigating organized crime in New England and the construction business. 
WADE Who? 
ROLFE (O.S.) Twombley. 
WADE No shit. 
ROLFE (O.S.) You think Jack shot him? 
WADE Well, it was an accident. 
ROLFE (O.S.) They were out deer hunting, right? Jack probably heard the gun go off, then came back and found the body. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ACCIDENT SCENE - DAY 
Another theory: Black-and-white. Jack sees a figure run from Twombley's body. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WADE'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
Wade shifts the phone from ear to ear: 
WADE Lillian was here. In Lawford. 
ROLFE (O.S.) Huh? 
MRS. GORDON Something about my father? 
WADE Oh, no. No, it's a... it's a traffic thing. No big deal. 
MRS. GORDON Can't it wait, then? 
MEL GORDON, 40, dark-eyed, wearing a tartan robe, steps behind his wife. 
MEL GORDON Whitehouse. Next time, phone ahead. 
WADE How's that? 
Mel folds his arms. His wife goes inside. 
MEL GORDON I said, 'Next time, phone ahead.' 
WADE Jesus Christ. Mr. Gordon, when I come all the way to serve somebody a summons, I don't call ahead for an appointment. 
MEL GORDON What the hell are you talking about? 
WADE I'm issuing you a ticket. Moving violation. 
MEL GORDON Moving violation! I just got out of bed and you're telling me you're giving me a goddamn speeding ticket? Now? Are you nuts? Is that it, Whitehouse? You're nuts? 
WADE (writing) Yesterday morning, you passed a stopped school bus, which was flashing its lights, then you-- 
MEL GORDON (stops Wade's arm) Hold on! 
WADE (wrenches hand free) Don't ever put your hands on me, Mr. Gordon. 
MEL GORDON You're talking about a goddamned ticket, from when I passed you at the school where you were deciding to hold up traffic while dreaming of becoming a traffic cop or something? 
WADE Don't give me a hard time, Mr. Gordon. I'm just -- 
MEL GORDON Doing your fucking job. I know. I watch television too. 
WADE Yes. Here's your ticket. 
MEL GORDON (refusing ticket) You get the hell out of my house now, asshole. And know this -- you are going to be a lucky asshole if I haven't got you fired before the day is out. I can do it with one phone call, and I'm pissed enough to do it now! 
Mel Gordon moves Wade out of the door, slams it. Wade steps away, looks back at the house. Mrs. Gordon watches him from the window. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MARGIE FOGG'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
A wood frame house off the main drag. Snowing. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MARGIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Wade and Margie, post-coital: 
MARGIE Jack's sort of sensitive, I guess. More than most. But he'll be okay in a few weeks. 
WADE There's something funny about that shooting. There's lots funny about it, actually. 
MARGIE I heard he was drunk at Toby's last night and got in a fight with Hettie. He drove off without her... 
WADE I'm sure, I'm positive it didn't happen the way Jack says it did. 
MARGIE (uncertain) Oh, Wade. 
WADE I've been thinking about it, that's all. 
MARGIE You've been married twice -- 
WADE It was to the same woman. I was just a kid... (Marg looks) It's not like a marriage proposal or anything, just a thought. Something for you and me to talk about and think about. You know? 
MARGIE Alright. I'll think about it. 
WADE Good. 
He kisses her. His jaw winces in pain. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAYBREAK (1964) 
THE FLASHBACK CONTINUES: 
Glen Whitehouse, plastered, yells at Wade, age 13: 
POP I've got sons, Goddamnit, oh my God, have I got sons! Wade? Rolfe? Elbourne? You love me boys? Do you love your Pop? Of course you do! 
Wade, frightened, retreats as Sally enters in her housecoat. 
SALLY Glen, stop -- 
POP Oh, Jesus, Sally, you are such a Goddamned good person! Capital G. You are so much better than I am, I who am no good at all, you who are a truly good person, like a fucking saint! Beyond fucking com-pare. 
Glen reaches for the Canadian Club; Sally tries to block his hand. Glen pulls his arm from hers, clipping her cheek with the bottle. 
Sally gasps, grabs her cheek. 
Wade pushes between them, protecting his mother. 
POP My big boy bursting out of the seams of his jeans! 
Pop clenches his fist. Wade vainly looks Rolfe's direction for help. 
SALLY Don't! 
POP You little prick! 
Pop's fist comes crashing down. Wade raises his arms to protect himself. Wade's arm bone CRACKS with the blow. Wade grimaces in pain. 
SALLY Glen, stop! 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MARGIE FOGG'S HOUSE - DAY 
Margie gets into Wade's idling Ford. 
CUT TO: 
INT./EXT. WADE'S CAR - DAY 
Wade, washed and changed, drives; Marg sits beside him. They head north. Deer rifles echo from the woods. 
MARGIE Did you tell them? (no answer) That we were coming? 
POP There's a furnace. 
MARGIE You're not using it today? 
POP It's broke I guess. There's an electric in the bedroom. 
MARGIE Maybe Wade should take a look at it. Your pipes'll freeze. (Pop nods) Wade, would you do that? 
Wade, concerned, pushes open the BEDROOM door: 
WADE Ma? It's Wade. Can I come in? 
He steps inside. On the bed, Sally Whitehouse, wrapped in blankets, lies dead. He walks over, beside the small electric heater, touches her forehead. Her skin is chalk white. 
WADE Oh, Lord. 
Margie steps into the doorway. Pop joins: 
POP Coffee's perked. 
MARGIE When did she die? 
POP Is...? She's dead then? 
WADE Yeah. 
POP I checked on her. She had the electric heater. Cold don't bother her as much as me. Which is why I give her the heater. 
WADE (kneels over mother) Is there something wrong with the phone? 
POP In the living room. 
WADE Why didn't you call and have the furnace fixed? 
POP Wade. I thought she was alright. Till this morning she was. 
Pop goes to the dresser, pours himself Canadian Club. Wade opens his mother's mouth, attempts respiration. 
POP It makes me sad. 
MARGIE Can --? 
POP (sits) Makes me sad it was her. Instead of me. I shoulda froze. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ROLFE'S CAR - DAY 
ROLFE WHITEHOUSE, 38, drives his four-door Toyota west: through Massachusetts, toward New Hampshire. His face bespeaks tolerance, objectivity -- in short, education. It's also Wade's face. 
ROLFE (V.O.) Wade called me, as usual, late at night. I knew it was Wade -- no one else calls me at that hour -- and I was ready to listen to another chapter in one of his ongoing sagas. There was the detective story concerning the shooting of Evan Twombley and the family melodrama about Wade's custody fight with Lillian. But not this time. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY 
Rolfe's Toyota sits with other cars. 
ROLFE (V.O.) Wade was telling a different story, or so it seemed then, one in which I myself was a character. He had called to tell me that sometime the previous night our mother had died, and he had discovered the body when he'd gone over to visit her and our father with Margie Fogg. Pop was okay, but kind of out of it. Worse than usual, maybe, though no drunker than usual. 
CUT TO: 
REV. DOUGHTY This is a difficult time. 
Gordon and the couple file out. Doughty, Glen, Rolfe, Wade and Margie remain. 
WADE Listen, it's no big deal, Pop. 
POP (raising fists) Come on, smart guy. Tell how it's no big deal. Tell me how a single one of you is worth a single hair on that woman's head. 
REV. DOUGHTY Give up this demon. 
POP Go fuck yourself! 
Wade, eyes blazing, squares off. Son to father. 
ROLFE Wade, just leave it. 
POP (mocking) Listen to your little brother. 'Wade, just leave it.' Candy-asses. All of you. That's what I've got for children. Candyasses. 'Wade, just leave it.' Praise the Lord! 'Just leave it!' 
Wade stiffens. Pop cocks his fist. Marg, screaming, jumps between them as Pop swings. 
The old man bounces blows off Margie's arms and shoulders. 
Wade pushes Marg aside, grabs his father in a bear hug and walks him backwards, flat against the wall. Wade releases him. Pop, frail, collapses to the floor. Wade kneels over him: 
WADE If you ever touch her again, I'll kill you. I swear it. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CEMETERY - DAY 
Townspeople and friends cluster around the gravesite: Pop, LaRiviere, Jack and Hettie, LaCoy, Chub Merritt, Nick, Jimmy, Lillian, Jill and Horner, Rolfe, Wade and Margie. 
ROLFE (V.O.) The day of the funeral was almost springlike. The snowline crossed New Hampshire west to east, retreating northward to Concord where it melted by midmorning. 
Rev. Doughty finishes. The mourners exchange farewells. Wade looks at Lillian. Margie and Rolfe, escorting Wade's father, let him be. He walks over, hugs Jill. 
JILL Dad. 
WADE (to Lillian) I'm glad you're here. Can you stay for a while? 
Lillian hesitates, shakes her head 'no.' 
WADE You ever come to your father's grave anymore? 
LILLIAN No, not anymore. It's too... it's too far. 
WADE We should talk. 
LILLIAN We've done all our talking, Wade. 
WADE It's just... 
LILLIAN Let the past be. (beat) I'm sorry about your mother. I liked her. You never know how much women like that suffer. It's like they live their lives with the sound turned off -- and then they're gone. 
JILL (tugging at Lillian) Mom. 
LILLIAN She has an ice-skating lesson at four. 
JILL I'm taking ice-skating, Daddy! 
He kisses Jill, says goodbyes, walks back to Rolfe and Margie. Ahead, LaRiviere walks with Jack. 
HAND No, not exactly. I'll look at the divorce decree, see if we can get it redrawn. Interview your daughter. Jill, right? 
WADE Yes. 
HAND Fine. I'll need a $500 retainer. You can mail it. 
WADE Jesus. How much... how much will the whole thing cost? 
HAND Hard to say. If we go for custody, depositions, psychiatric evaluations, it could drag on. Ten or twelve thousand dollars. She could win on appeal. If we just want to get the visitation rights redrawn, assuming they're unduly restrictive, it wouldn't be more than twenty-five hundred. 
WADE Oh. 
HAND (sensing situation) You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go for the -- 
WADE Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter. (Hand nods) I'll send you the five hundred. 
Wade stands; Hand motors to the door. Wade puts his fingers in his mouth. His tooth throbs. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. LARIVIERE CO. - DAY 
Fairlane squad car in its customary spot. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LARIVIERE'S OFFICE - DAY 
Wade and Gordon speak. LaRiviere is relaxed, open: a "new Gordon." 
WADE Sorry about the long lunch. My clutch is going out again. 
LARIVIERE You ever think of getting a new car, Wade? 
WADE On what you pay me? 
LARIVIERE Elaine! Call Chub Meritt and have him pick up Wade's car, fix the clutch. 
ELAINE (O.S.) What! 
LARIVIERE (to Wade) Use the pickup. I'll bill it to the town. You're the town police officer and the town police officer should have a decent car. You want a new car or not? 
WADE What do I have to do for it? 
LARIVIERE Nothing, Wade, I've been thinking. You don't get enough appreciation around here and it's time we changed things a little. 
WADE I saw Mel Gordon in here this morning. 
LARIVIERE So? 
WADE He say anything about the summons I tried to give him? Sonofabitch wouldn't accept it. 
LARIVIERE Wade, that wasn't smart. Going out right after the man's father-in-law shot himself. Let it go. Call it a favor to me. 
WADE You? Why? 
LARIVIERE Mel's doing some business with me. It's nice to do favors for people you do business with. He was in a hurry. No big deal. 
WADE That was before Twombley was shot. Before he knew. 
LARIVIERE What's the difference? Take my truck, take a rest -- stop worrying about Mel Gordon. Have you decided what to do with your old man's place -- he going to stay there? 
Wade stands in darkness. The only sound his idling truck, the wind. Then a third sound -- the snap of ice. Ice cracks ripple from the middle of the pond. Ice planes tip around the truck. 
LaRiviere's snazzy Dodge slips, descends, disappears. 
Headlights glow under water, then go out. "Our Business Is Going In The Hole." 
Wade, alone in darkness, plops into the water, paddles to shore. Freezing, he finds Jack's tire tracks in the snow. He bangs his jaw. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. WICKHAM'S - NIGHT 
A car drops Wade off. "Home Made Cooking." 
CUT TO: 
INT. WICKHAM'S - NIGHT 
Wade enters the empty diner. His clothes frozen. 
NICK Your father's in back, Wade. Marg had to babysit him. She moved in with you, huh? (looking closer) What happened? 
Wade goes to the kitchen. Glen Whitehouse, washing dishes with Margie, looks up: 
POP Ah, the prodigal son. 
NICK About fucking time. 
POP Look, got me a new job, second cook and bottle washer! 
MARGIE What happened? 
WADE Jesus Christ, Pop, let's go home. I got waylaid. Sorry. 
POP The fuck you got waylaid. You follow your prick around like it was your nose. 
NICK (enters) Can it, Whitehouse. (to Wade) Get him out of here. It was funny at first, but I'm tired. 
MARGIE There's clothes in the back. 
Wade's old man talks as he dresses: 
POP Let's go home? What home is that? Your home? My home? Let's have a talk about that. You're fucking sly, Wade. Your mother's dead so she can't make any excuses for you anymore! You gotta deal with me! No more sugar tit, asshole. 
Wade, redressed, enters: 
WADE Pop, for Christ's sake! 
POP You think you can take me now? Come on, try. 
Margie and Nick guide pere et fils to MARG'S CAR. Nick speaks to her: 
NICK Marg, get out of this. Fast. 
MARGIE I can't. 
Marg drives off. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MARGIE'S CAR - NIGHT 
CUT TO: 
INT. ALMA PITTMAN'S HOUSE - DAY 
They step into Alma's living room/office. She's been keeping the town secrets for as long as anyone can remember. 
WADE You got yourself a computer, Alma. 
ALMA Been putting my files into it. You take sugar and milk? 
WADE No. Black. 
They sit by her desk at the bay window. She studies him. 
ALMA Are you alright, Wade? 
WADE Yeah, sure. Why? I got this damned tooth, I got a few things bugging me, like everybody else. But I'm okay. 
ALMA Well, you look... sad. Upset. I don't mean to pry. I'm sorry about your mother. It was a nice funeral. 
WADE Alma, I think there's some dirty business going on in this town. 
ALMA Always has been. 
WADE This is maybe worse than you and I are used to. (beat) What I'm talking about, I'm talking about murder. Among other things. 
ALMA Who? 
WADE Evan Twombley, the union boss who got shot. Somebody murdered him. 
ALMA Who? 
WADE You know Jack Hewitt, the kid I work with? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MERRITT'S STATION - DAY 
Gordon LaRiviere examines his damaged pickup outside the Shell station. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ALMA PITTMAN'S HOUSE - DAY 
Wade finishes: 
WADE ...if Jack told the truth, he could be free by the time he's my age. 
ALMA Sometimes things are simpler than you think. Let me ask you a question. 
WADE You don't believe me? 
ALMA (crosses to her desk) About Jack? No. Have you checked out the tax bill on your father's farm lately? 
WADE I know he's due for the last two years. I was thinking of paying it when the insurance comes in. 
ALMA Has anybody offered to buy it? 
WADE As a mater of fact, yes. LaRiviere. 
Alma punches her computer. Dozens of items flash up. 
WADE Tell me. 
CHICK Chub says you're fired. 
WADE He can't fire me. LaRiviere already did that this morning. 
CHICK He's a Selectman. The town. He said to tell you to turn your badge in and clean out your office. I'm supposed to pull the CB and police light out of your car. They're town property. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY 
Wade, open phone book in hand, walks back and forth speaking into the receiver. Margie looks up from the KITCHEN table, an old newspaper in front of her. 
WADE What do you mean, you can't take me today? I told you -- 
The other party has hung up. Margie stands, upset. Wade slams the phone down. 
MARGIE What on earth is happening to you? Why are you acting this way? 
WADE It's my tooth! My fucking tooth! I can't even think anymore because of it. 
MARGIE I heard you talking. You got fired this morning, didn't you? 
WADE Look, that's temporary, believe me. There's so much shit gonna hit the fan the next few days, my getting fired by LaRiviere and Merritt won't matter a bit. 
Pop enters from outside with firewood, passes. 
WADE I'll get another job. People are going to need me. After this is over, they'll make me into a Goddamned hero. You wait: you'll see, I'll deliver. I'll be the best father who ever lived. You need me, even Pop, for Christ's sake, he needs me. This town needs me. Maybe now they think they can send me howling into a corner like a kicked dog, but my God, it'll be different soon. 
Margie's face falls. She retreats from the room as he speaks, taking her coat and pocketbook. Wade and his old man, she thinks: just the same. 
Wade looks out the window and she gets in her car, drives off. 
Wade holds his inflamed jaw; he can hardly see straight. Pop turns on the TV in the living room, boosts the volume. 
Pop comes back in the room, gets the Canadian Club, pours himself a drink. 
WADE Leave the bottle out! 
Pop growls, goes back to wrestling on the TV. Wade walks to the cabinet, removes a pair of pliers from the tool drawer, goes toward the bathroom. 
In the BATHROOM, Wade opens his mouth -- it hurts -- takes a bite of whisky, sets the bottle on the toilet tank. 
He looks at the stranger in the mirror, reaches inside his mouth with the pliers. Prying his mouth open, Wade Whitehouse locks the pliers onto a large molar in the back, squeezes and pulls. 
He steadies himself, pulls again, yanking the pliers from his mouth. The bloody rotted tooth clatters in the sink. He takes another bite of whisky. 
Rolfe's voice plays over: 
ROLFE (V.O.) You will say I should have known terrible things were about to happen, and perhaps I should have. But even so, what could I have done by then? Wade never went inside. He lived almost wholly out there on his skin, with no interior space to retreat to, even in a crisis. 
Wade takes another swig, sets the whisky bottle in the LIVING ROOM beside the TV set. Wade and Pop exchange looks. 
Wade exits through the KITCHEN, snatching his coat. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BARN - DAY 
Wade spits blood into the snow as he grabs a gallon can of gasoline from under the porch. 
WADE (winking) How about a Big Mac? 
JILL Mommy won't let me eat fast food. You know that. It's bad for you. 
WADE C'mon, we can always sneak a Big Mac. And a cherry turnover. Your favorite. What do you say? 
JILL No. 
WADE What do you want, then? 
JILL Nothing. 
WADE You can't have nothing, Jill. We need lunch. Mr. Pizza? 
JILL Same thing, Daddy. Mommy says -- 
WADE I know what Mommy says. I'm in charge today, though. 
JILL Okay. So we'll get what you want. What do you want? 
They stop for a light. Silence. 
WADE Nothing, I guess. I guess I can wait till we get home. Maybe we'll stop by Wickham's for a hamburger when we get to Lawford. That suit you? You always like Wickham's. 
JILL (looking ahead) Okay. 
WADE Fine. 
Pause. Wade looks over at Jill and realizes she is crying. 
WADE Oh, Jesus, Jill, I'm sorry. What's the matter, honey? 
She shoves her clenched fists hard against her legs. 
WADE Please don't cry. Please, honey. 
JILL (regains composure) What are you sorry for? 
WADE I don't know. For the food business. I guess. I just thought, you know, we'd sneak a Big Mac on Mommy, like we used to. 
JILL I want to go home. 
WADE (quick) You can't. 
Jill looks away. Wade pulls a six-pack from under the seat, pulls off a beer, takes a swig. 
JILL (quiet) That's illegal, you know. 
WADE I know. 
JILL You're a policeman. 
WADE Nope. Not anymore. I'm nothing anymore. 
JILL Oh. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WICKHAM'S - DAY 
Wade and Jill enter Wickham's, crowded with out-of-state hunters at the end of the deer season. 
In his arms Margie feels trapped, overwhelmed by Wade's circumstances and terrible sadness. She pushes: 
MARGIE (crying) Leave me alone! Leave me alone! 
She struggles in Wade's grasp. Jill, frightened, wildly hits him from behind: 
JILL Leave her alone! Leave her alone! 
Wade moves back like a bear, covering his face and arms. Jill, near hysterical, keeps after him, arms and fists flying. 
Wade stumbles backwards into the snow. Jill still swings. Margie dashes to intervene as Wade swings his arms wide. 
Jill flies into Marg. Her nose is bleeding. Wade's caught her across the mouth and nose. She takes cover behind Margie, crying. 
Margie and Jill stand side by side, saying nothing. Wade looks up stunned, as if hit by a rock. Marg slowly backs away, her arms behind her holding Jill. 
MARGIE (to Jill) Get in. 
Marg eases Jill into the front seat, closes the door, edges around the car slamming the trunk and gets into the driver's seat. Wade stands. 
JILL I want to go home. Will you take me home? 
MARGIE Yes. 
She closes the front door, starts the car. She backs out the drive. 
In her rear view mirror she sees the image of Wade receding, standing frozen, staring down at the snow. Pop emerges from the house, looks at his son, grinning. 
Wade looks at his old man, that dumb devilish grin plastered on his father's face. Glen Whitehouse holds an empty whiskey bottle like a pistol. 
Hunters' gunshots echo in the distance. 
POP (Satanic delight) You! By Christ, you -- I know you. (points bottle) Yeah, you goddamn sonofabitch, I know you. You're a goddamn fucking piece of my heart! 
WADE (dead) You don't know me. You don't know me! (beat) So fuck you. Fuck you. 
POP Nah-nah-naw! You done done finally done it! Like a man done it. Done it right. I love you, you mean sonofabitch! 
Pop holds up the bottle, pretends to fire it at Wade. 
WADE Love! What the fuck do you know about love? 
POP Love! I'm made of love! 
WADE Call it what you want. 
POP Everything you know is from me. 
WADE Yeah. 
POP Bang! 
WADE You and me. 
Wade waves his old man off, trudges toward the barn. 
POP Where the Christ you going? You sonofabitch, you leave my fucking truck where it is! I need... Give me the Goddamn keys! I need to get me to town! 
WADE Crawl! 
POP Nothing in the fucking house to drink. Not a fucking thing. My house, my money, my truck -- stolen! 
