Aliens - by James Cameron 
"ALIENS" 
by 
James Cameron 
FIRST DRAFT May 28, 1985 
ALIENS 
FADE IN 
SOMETIME IN THE FUTURE - SPACE                            1 
Silent and endless.  The stars shine like the love of God...cold and remote.  Against them drifts a tiny chip of technology. 
CLOSER SHOT  It is the NARCISSUS, lifeboat of the ill-fated star-freighter Nostromo.  Without interior or running lights it seems devoid of life.  The PING of a RANGING RADAR grows louder, closer.  A shadow engulfs the Narcissus.  Searchlights flash on, playing over the tiny ship, as a MASSIVE DARK HULL descends toward it. 
INT. NARCISSUS                                            2 
Dark and dormant as a crypt.  The searchlights stream in the dusty windows.  Outside, massive metal forms can BE SEEN descending around the shuttle.  Like the tolling of a bell, a BASSO PROFUNDO CLANG reverberates through the hull. 
CLOSE ON THE AIRLOCK DOOR  Light glares as a cutting torch bursts through the metal.  Sparks shower into the room. 
A second torch cuts through.  They move with machine precision, cutting a rectangular path, converging.  The torches meet.  Cut off.  The door falls inward REVEALING a bizarre multi-armed figure.  A ROBOT WELDER. 
FIGURES ENTER, backlit and ominous.  THREE MEN in bio-isolation suits, carrying lights and equipment.  They approach a sarcophaguslike HYPERSLEEP CAPSULE, f.g. 
LEADER (filtered) Internal pressure positive.  Assume nominal hull integrity.  Hypersleep capsules, style circa late twenties... 
His gloved hand wipes at on opaque layer of dust on the canopy. 
ANGLE INSIDE CAPSULE  as light stabs in where the dust is wiped away, illuminating a WOMAN, her face in peaceful repose. 
WARRANT OFFICER RIPLEY, sole survivor of the Nostromo. Nestled next to her is JONES, the ship's wayward cat. 
LEADER (voice over; filtered) Lights are green.  She's alive. Well, there goes out salvage, guys. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - TIGHT ON RIPLEY - GATEWAY STATION    3 
She's lying in a bed, looking wan, as a female MED-TECH raises the backrest.  She is surrounded by arcane white MEDICAL EQUIPMENT.  The Med-Tech exudes practiced cheeriness. 
MED-TECH Why don't I open the viewport? Watch your eyes. 
Harsh light floods in as a motorized shield slides into the ceiling, REVEALING a breathtaking vista.  Beyond the sprawling complex of modular habitats, collectively called GATEWAY STATION, is the curve of EARTH as seen from high orbit.  Blue and serene. 
MED-TECH And how are we today? 
RIPLEY (weakly) Terrible. 
MED-TECH Just terrible?  That's better than yesterday at least. 
RIPLEY How long have I been on Gateway station? 
MED-TECH Just a couple of days.  Do you feel up to a visitor? 
Ripley shrugs, not caring.  The door opens and a MAN enters, although Ripley sees only what he is carrying. A familiar large, orange TOMCAT. 
RIPLEY Jones! 
She grabs the cat like a life preserver. 
RIPLEY (cooing baby-cat talk) Come here Jonesy you ugly old moose...you ugly thing. 
Jones patiently endures Ripley's embarrassing display, seeming none the worse for wear.  The visitor sits beside the bed and Ripley finally notices him.  He is thirtyish and handsome, in a suit that looks executive or legal, the tie loosened with studied casualness.  A smile referred to as "winning." 
MAN Nice room.  I'm Burke.  Carter Burke. I work for the company, but other than that I'm an okay guy.  Glad to see you're feeling better.  I'm told the weakness and disorientation should pass soon.  Side effects of the unusually long hypersleep, or something like that. 
RIPLEY How long was I out there?  They won't tell me anything. 
BURKE (soothing) Well, maybe you shouldn't worry about that just yet. 
Ripley grabs his arm, surprising him. 
RIPLEY How long? 
RIPLEY You always think you can make it up to somebody...later, you know. But now I never can.  I never can. 
Let's get one thing straight...Ripley can be one tough lady.  But the terror, the loss, the emptiness are, in this moment, overwhelming.  She cries silently. 
Burke puts a reassuring hand on her arm. 
BURKE (gently) The hearing convenes at 0930.  You don't want to be late. 
INT. CORRIDOR - GATEWAY                                   5 
Elevator doors part and Ripley emerges, in mid-conversation with Burke.  DOLLYING AHEAD OF THEM as they move rapidly down the corridor. 
RIPLEY You read my deposition...it's complete and accurate. 
BURKE Look, I believe you, but there are going to be some heavyweights in there.  You got Feds, you got interstellar commerce commission, you got colonial administration, insurance company guys... 
RIPLEY I get the picture. 
BURKE Just tell them what happened.  The important thing is to stay cool and unemotional. 
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - ON RIPLEY - GATEWAY                6 
She's not cool.  Not unemotional. 
RIPLEY Do you people have earwax, of what?  We have been here three hours.  How many different ways do you want me to tell the same story? 
She faces the EIGHT MEMBERS of the board of inquiry at a long conference table.  Gray suits and grim faces.  They aren't buying.  Behind Ripley on a large VIDEO SCREEN, PARKER grins like a goon from his personnel mugshot.  His file prints out next to it.  BRETT's face and dossier replace it, and then the others as the SCENE continues... KANE, LAMBERT, ASH the android traitor, DALLAS. VAN LEUWEN, the ICC representative, steeples his fingers and frowns. 
VAN LEUWEN Look at it from our perspective. You freely admit to detonating the engines of, and thereby destroying, an M-Class star-freighter.  A rather expensive piece of hardware... 
INSURANCE INVESTIGATOR (dryly) Forty-two million in adjusted dollars. That's minus payload, of course. 
VAN LEUWEN The shuttle's flight recorder corroborates some elements of your account.  That the Nostromo set down on LV-426, an unsurveyed planet, at that time.  That repairs were made.  That it resumed its course and was subsequently set for self-destruct.  By you.  For reasons unknown. 
RIPLEY Look, I told you... 
VAN LEUWEN It did not, however, contain any entries concerning the hostile life form you allegedly picked up. 
Ripley sense the noose tightening. 
RIPLEY Then somebody's gotten to it... doctored the recorder.  Who had access to it? 
The ECA (Extrasolar Colonization Administration) Representative (ECA REP) just shakes his head. 
ECA REP Would you just listen to yourself for one minute. 
Ripley glares at the ECA Rep, a woman on the ungenerous side of fifty.  Van Leuwen sighs with exasperation. 
VAN LEUWEN The analysis team which went over your shuttle centimeter by centimeter found no physical evidence of the creature you describe... 
RIPLEY (losing it) That's because I blew it out the Goddamn airlock! (pause) Like I said. 
INSURANCE MAN (to ECA Rep) Are there any species like this 'hostile organism' on LV-426? 
ECA REP No.  It's a rock.  No indigenous life larger than a simple virus. 
Ripley grits her teeth in frustration. 
RIPLEY I told you, it wasn't indigenous. There was an alien spacecraft there. A derelict ship.  We homed on its beacon... 
ECA REP To be perfectly frank, we've surveyed over three hundred worlds and no one's ever reported a creature which, using your words... (read from Ripley's statement) ...'gestates in a living human host' and has 'concentrated molecular acid for blood.' 
Ripley glances at Burke, silent at the far end of the table.  His expression is grim.  Her mouth hardens as a bit of the old nail-eating Ripley surfaces. 
RIPLEY Look, I can see where this is going.  But I'm telling you those things exist.  Back on that planetoid is an alien ship and on that ship are thousands of eggs.  Thousands. Do you understand?  I suggest you find it, using the flight recorder's data.  Find it and deal with it -- before one of your survey teams comes back with a little surprise... 
VAN LEUWEN Thank you, Officer Ripley.  That will be... 
RIPLEY (louder, stepping on him) ...because just one of those things managed to kill my entire crew, within twelve hours of hatching... 
Van Leuwen stands, out of patience. 
VAN LEUWEN Thank you, that will be all. 
Ripley stares him down, glowering at the board. 
RIPLEY That's not all, Goddamnit!  If those things get back here, that will be all.  Then you can just kiss it good-bye, Jack!  Just kiss it goodbye. 
Ripley turns sharply away, trembling with frustration and anger.  Dallas looks back at her from the video screen, his eyes burning from the photograph, as we: 
RIPLEY If I go. 
BURKE If you go. (pause) It's a second chance, kiddo.  And it'll be the best thing in the world for you to face this fear and beat it.  You gotta get back on the horse... 
RIPLEY (frosty) Spare me, Burke.  I've had my psych evaluation this month. 
Burke leans close, a let's-cut-the-crap intimacy. 
BURKE Yes, and I've read it.  You wake up every night, sheets soaking, the same nightmare over and over... 
RIPLEY (shouting) No!  The answer is no.  Now please go.  I'm sorry.  Just go, would you. 
Burke nods to Gorman who rises with him.  He slips a TRANSLUCENT CARD onto the table, heads for the door. 
BURKE Think about it. 
EXT. ACHERON LANDSCAPE - NIGHT                           23 
As the wind HOWLS through tormented rock, BUILDING IN PITCH until we: 
CUT TO: 
INT. APARTMENT                                           24 
Ripley lunges INTO FRAME with an animal outcry.  She clutches her chest, breathing hard.  Bathed in sweat she lights a cigarette with trembling hands.  Do we hear a faint, desolate wind? 
TIGHT ON PHONE CONSOLE  as Ripley's hand inserts Burke's card into a slot.  "STAND BY" prints out on the screen and is replaced by Burke's face, bleary with sleep. 
BURKE (on video phone) Yello?  Oh, Ripley.  Hi... 
RIPLEY Burke, just tell me one thing. That you're going out there to kill them.  Not study.  Not bring back.  Just burn them out...clean ...forever. 
BURKE That's the plan.  My word on it. 
CLOSEUP - RIPLEY  taking a deep slow breath.  It's time to look the demon in the eye. 
RIPLEY All right.  I'm in. 
She punches off before Burke replies, before she can change her mind.  She turns to Jones sitting on the bed and her tone becomes admonishing... 
RIPLEY And you my dear, are staying right here. 
Jones blinks, cynical cat eyes..."count me right out." 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DEEP SPACE - THREE WEEKS LATER                      25 
An empty starfield.  Metal spires slice ACROSS FRAME. 
A mountain of steel following.  A massive military transport ship, the SULACO.  Ugly, battered... functional. 
INT. CORRIDOR TO CARGO LOCK                              26 
An empty corridor, seemingly miles long.  No movement. The THRUMMING of hyperdrive engines. 
INT. CARGO LOCK                                          27 
An enormous chamber, cavernous and dark.  Squatting in the shadows are two orbit-to-surface shuttles. DROP-SHIPS.  Heavy machinery all around them... cranes, loading equipment. 
INT. BRIDGE                                              28 
Dark electronic womb.  CAMERA DOLLIES SLOWLY among murmuring instrumentation.  A sudden high-pitched TRILLING accompanies a sequence of lights.  An alarm. 
INT. HYPERSLEEP VAULT                                    29 
Blackness, until a bank of indicators lights up. Hydraulics lift a grid of equipment from a row of horizontal HYPERSLEEP CYLINDERS.  It reaches the ceiling.  Locks. 
CLOSE ON RIPLEY'S CAPSULE  as trickles of water run down the frosted canopy. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. HYPERSLEEP VAULT                                    30 
Lit up, white and sterile. 
The canopies of the row of capsules are raised.  Ripley sits up.  Rubs her arms briskly.  Next to her Gorman and Burke are stirring and beyond them the troopers, wearing shorts and dog tags.  They are: 
MASTER SERGEANT APONE                    UNIT LEADER 
An unconscious segregation takes place at the troopers assemble at one long table while Gorman, Burke, Bishop and Ripley sit at another.  Everybody is nursing a coffee, waiting for eggs from the AUTOCHEF.  Among the troopers dress discipline is lax...fatigues customized and emblazoned with patches.  Drake's tunic is cut off to a vest and has "Eat the apple and fuck the Corps" stenciled on back.  "Peace Through Superior Firepower," "Pray for War" and "I've Served My Time in Hell:  Cetti Epsilon NC-104" are some others. 
HUDSON Hey, 'Top.'  What's the op? 
APONE Rescue mission.  There's some juicy colonists' daughters we gotta rescue from virginity. 
Apone is stocky, grizzled, with peregrine eyes.  He runs it loose and fair, but only because he knows his people are the best. 
SPUNKMEYER Shee-it.  Dumbass colonists. What's this crap supposed to be? 
WIERZBOWSKI Cornbread, I think.  Hey, I wouldn't mind getting me some more a that Arcturan poontang.  Remember that time? 
HICKS (low) Looks like that new Lieutenant's too good to eat with us grunts. 
WIERZBOWSKI (glancing over shoulder) Yeah.  Got a corn cob up his ass, definitely. 
Across the room, at the other table, Gorman sits with his creases perfect...the consummate strack NCO.  Bishop takes a seat beside Ripley, who pointedly gets up and moves to the far side of the table.  He looks wounded. 
BISHOP I'm sorry you feel that way about Synthetics, Ripley. 
Ripley spins on Burke, her tone accusing. 
RIPLEY You never said anything about an android being here!  Why not? 
BURKE Well, it didn't occur to me.  It's been policy for years to have a synthetic on board. 
BISHOP I prefer the term 'artificial person' myself.  Is there a problem? 
BURKE A synthetic malfunctioned on her last trip out.  Some deaths were involved. 
BISHOP I'm shocked.  Was it an older model? 
BURKE Cyberdyne Systems 120-A/2. 
Bishop turns to Ripley, very conciliatory. 
BISHOP Well, that explains it.  The A/2's were always a bit twitchy. That could never happen now with out behavioral inhibitors.  Impossible for me to harm or, by omission of action, allow to be harmed a human being. (smiling) More cornbread? 
WHAM!  Ripley knocks the plate out of his hand, halfway across the room. 
RIPLEY Just stay away from me, Bishop! You got that straight? 
Burke and Gorman exchange glances. 
Wierzbowski, at the next table, shrugs and turns back to the other troopers. 
WIERZBOWSKI She don't like the cornbread either. 
INT. READY ROOM - TIGHT ON APONE - ARMORY                33 
bellowing. 
APONE Tench-hut! 
WIDER ANGLE  as the troops snap to from their lounging among the racks of high-tech weaponry.  Gorman enters with Burke and Ripley. 
GORMAN At ease.  I'm sorry we didn't have time to brief before we left Gateway but... 
HUDSON Sir? 
GORMAN (annoyed) Yes, Hicks? 
HUDSON Hudson, Sir.  He's Hicks. 
GORMAN What's the question? 
HUDSON Is this going to be a stand-up fight, Sir, on another bug-hunt? 
GORMAN All we know is that there's still no contact with the colony and that a xenomorph may be involved. 
WIERZBOWSKI A what? 
HICKS (to Wierzbowski; low) It's a bug-hunt. (louder) So what are these things? 
Gorman nods to Ripley, who stands before the troops. She sets some RECORDING DISKETTES on the table. 
RIPLEY I've dictated what I know on these. 
APONE Tease us a bit. 
HUDSON Excuse me. 
ANGLE ON APONE  standing with Hicks, as Ripley approaches him 
RIPLEY I feel like a fifth wheel here.  Is there anything I can do? 
APONE I don't know.  Is there anything you can do? 
RIPLEY (pointing) I can drive that loader.  I've got a Class Two rating.  My latest career move. 
Apone turns.  A SECOND POWER LOADER sits unused in an equipment bay. 
TWO SHOT APONE AND HICKS  skeptical.  Considering. 
TIGHT ON POWER SWITCH  as Ripley's finger punches it on. A RISING WHINE of power. 
TIGHT ON THE HYDRAULICS  as the massive machine stirs to life. 
FULL, as the loader starts.  Ripley is strapped into the safety cage, her arms and legs inserted in the servo-sensor assemblies.  She takes a step.  BOOM! Two tons of hardened steel takes a step. 
Ripley spins the wrist servos.  The huge claws swing, open...slide smoothly into lifting brackets on a cargo module, nearby.  She raises it deftly. 
RIPLEY Where you want it? 
Hicks looks at Apone, cocks an eyebrow appreciatively. 
INT. READY ROOM - ARMORY                                 39 
The troopers are suiting up for the drop.  Strapping on their bulky COMBAT-ARMOR...interlocking plates like football padding.  They tape their wrists.  Draw on segmented boots.  The sole cleats CLACK like hooves on the deck plates.  Lockers SLAM. 
WEB BELTS.  PACKS.  HARNESSES.  HELMETS.  COM-SETS. Their fingers move methodically over the fastenings. It has its own rhythm...CLICK.  CLICK.  CLICK. 
APONE Let's move it, girls!  On the ready line.  Let's go, let's go. 
INT. DROP-SHIP - APC                                     40 
Ripley, wearing a flight jacket and headset, files into the ship with the hulking troopers.  Inside they pass directly into the APC we saw loaded earlier and take seats facing each other across a narrow aisle.  They will drop already strapped into their ground vehicle for rapid deployment.  A KLAXON SOUNDS, signalling depressurization of the cargo lock. 
Hudson prowls the aisle, his movements predatory and exaggerated.  Ripley watches him working his way toward her. 
HUDSON I am ready, man.  Ready to get it on.  Check-it-out.  I am the ultimate badass...state of the badass art.  You do not want to fuck with me.  Hey, Ripley, don't worry.  Me and my squad of ultimate badasses will protect you. Check-it-out... 
He slaps the SERVO-CANNON controls in the GUN BAY above them. 
HUDSON Independently targetting particle-beam phalanx.  VWAP! Fry half a city with this puppy. We got tactical smart-missles, phased-plasma pulse-rifles, RPG's.  We got sonic eeelectronic ballbreakers, we got nukes, we got knives...sharp sticks -- 
Hicks grabs Hudson by his battle harness and pulls him into a seat.  His voice is low, but it carries. 
HICKS Save it. 
HUDSON Sure, Hicks. 
Ripley nods her thanks to Hicks.  MOTORS WHINE and the craft lurches.  Burke, next to Ripley, grins eagerly like this is a sport fishing trip. 
BURKE Here we go. 
She looks like she's in a gas chamber waiting for the pellet to drop. 
EXT. SULACO                                              41 
The drop-ship lowers from the cargo-lock on a massive launch rig.  The night side of Acheron yawns below... enigmatic. 
INT. COCKPIT                                             42 
Ferro and Spunkmeyer run rapidly through the switches. 
FERRO Initiate release sequencer on my mark.  Three.  Two.  One.  Mark! 
EXT. SULACO - DROP-SHIP                                  43 
Hydraulic WHINE.  Clamps SLAM BACK.  The ship drops. 
INT. DROP-SHIP - APC                                     44 
Apone, stalking the aisle, snatches for a handhold. Bishop, Burke and Gorman groan at the sudden gees. Ripley closes her eyes...the point of no return. 
EXT. DROP-SHIP                                           45 
It screams down through the stratosphere, plunging into dark turbulence. 
VASQUEZ (turning away) Figures. 
GORMAN (to Ferro via mike) Set down sixty meters this side of the telemetry mast.  Immediate dust off on my 'clear,' then stay on station. 
APONE Ten seconds, people.  Look sharp! 
EXT. COLONY COMPLEX                                      53 
Landing beacons sweep harsh light across the wet Tarmac. The ship roars down, extending the loading ramp.  Slams down on hydraulic LANDING LEGS.  The APC hits the ground a moment later, pulling away from the ship as it leaps up in a cloud of spray and peels off, circling. 
The APC pulls to the edge of the complex.  The CREW DOOR opens.  Troopers hit the ground running.  Spread out. They drop behind immediate cover.  Apone scans with him image intensifier visor lowered. 
APONE'S P.O.V.  through the starlight-scope visor. Bright as a sunny day, though contrasty and lurid, we SEE the colony buildings.  Trash blows in the street. No other movement. 
GORMAN (voice over; filtered) First squad up, on line.  Hicks, get yours in a cordon.  Watch the rear. 
APONE Vasquez, take point.  Let's move. 
Sprinting in a skirmish line, Apone's team advances on the colony main entry-lock.  Parked tightly across the doors are two heavy-duty tractors.  Vasquez reaches one of the tractors, looks inside.  The controls are ripped out, as if by a crowbar or axe.  She moves on. 
EXT. COLONY BUILDING                                     54 
Vasquez reaches the main doors, Drake flanking on the right.  Apone tries the door controls.  Nothing. 
APONE Sealed.  Hudson, run a bypass. 
Hudson, all business now, moves up and studies the door control panel.  He pries off the facing and starts clipping on the bypass wires. 
APONE First squad, assemble on me at the main lock. 
The wind roars around the bleak structures.  A neon sign creaks overhead.  Hudson makes a connection.  The door shrieks in its tracks and rumbles aside.  It jams partway open.  Apone motions Vasquez inside.  She eases over the wrecked tractor, through the doors. The others follow. 
GORMAN (voice over; filtered) Second team, move up. Flanking positions. 
INT. COLONY - MAIN CONCOURSE                             55 
DOLLYING SLOWLY FORWARD, following Vasquez and Apone as they move into the broad corridor.  A few emergency lights are still on.  Wind moans along the concourse. Pools of water cover the floor.  Farther down, rain drips through blast holes in the ceiling.  Evidence of a fire fight with pulse-rifles. 
ON VASQUEZ  moving forward.  Taut.  Alert.  Her smart-gun cannon swinging slowly in an arc.  She studies the video aiming monitor, looking down rather than ahead. Their footsteps echo. 
INT. APC                                                 56 
Ripley watches as the bobbing images reveal the empty colony building. 
GORMAN Quarter and search by twos.  Second team move inside.  Hicks, take the upper level.  Use your motion trackers. 
INT. MAIN CONCOURSE - SECOND LEVEL                       57 
Hicks leads his squad up the stairwell to second level. They emerge cautiously.  An empty corridor recedes into the dim distance.  Hicks unslings a rugged piece of equipment.  Aims it down the hall.  He adjusts the "gain."  It remains silent. 
HICKS Nothing.  No movement. 
They pass rooms and offices.  Through doors they see increasing signs of struggle.  Furniture overturned. Papers scattered...floating sodden in the puddles. 
INT. APC                                                 58 
Ripley et al watching. 
BURKE Looks like my room in college. 
Nobody laughs. 
INT. SECOND LEVEL                                        59 
Hicks' group passes several burnt-out rooms.  There are no bodies.  In several offices the exterior windows are blown out, admitting wind and rain.  Hicks picks up a half-eaten donut beside a coffee cup overflowing with rainwater. 
INT. LOWER LEVEL - QUARTERS                              60 
Apone's men are searching systematically in pairs.  They pass through the colonists' modest apartments, little more than cubicles.  Hudson, on tracker, flanks Vasquez as they move forward.  Hudson touches a splash of color on the wall.  Dried blood.  His tracker BEEPS. 
Vasquez whirls, cannon aimed.  The BEEPING grows more frequent as Hudson advances toward a half open door.  The door is splintered partway out of its frame.  Holes caused by pulse-rifle rounds pepper the walls.  Vasquez eases up to the door.  Kicks it in.  Tenses to fire. 
Inside, dangling from a piece of flex conduit, a junction-box swings like a pendulum in the wind from a broken window.  It clanks against the rails of a child's bunkbed as it swings. 
INT. DROP-SHIP - APC                                     61 
Ripley watches Hicks' monitor. 
RIPLEY Wait!  Tell him to... (plugs in headset jack) ...Hicks.  Back up.  Pan left. There! 
FRONT Sir, you should check this out... 
He leads the way into the corridor. 
INT. CORRIDOR                                            69 
This wing is completely without power.  The troopers switch on their pack lights and the beams illuminate a scene of devastation worse than they have seen.  Her expression reveals that Ripley is about to turn and flee. 
FROST Right ahead here... 
They approach a barricade blocking the corridor, a hastily welded wall of pipes, steel-plate, outer-door panels.  Acid holes have slashed through the floor and walls in several places.  The metal is scratched and twisted by hideously powerful forces, peeled back like a soup can on one side.  They squeeze through the opening. 
INT. MEDICAL WING                                        70 
They pack-lights play over the devastation of the colonists' last ditch battle.  The equipment of the med labs has been uprooted to add to the barrier.  The walls are perforated by pulse-rifle fire and acid.  Scorched by untended fires to bare metal.  A few instruments glow with emergency power. 
WIERZBOWSKI Last stand. 
GORMAN No bodies? 
FROST No, Sir.  Looks like it was a helluva fight. 
TIGHT ON RIPLEY  transfixed by something. 
RIPLEY (low) Over there. 
The others turn and approach, seeing what she sees.  She has entered a second room, part of the med lab area.  In a storage alcove at near eye level stand seven transparent cylinders.  STASIS TUBES.  They glow faintly with an eerie violet light given off by the field which preserves the specimens inside. 
They look like jars containing SEVERED ARTHRITIC HANDS, the palsied fingers curled in a death-rictus. Structurally they are more like spiders with sickening translucent skin, a flacid scrotal body, gill-like organs underneath drifting in the suspension fluid. Something you definitely do not want on your face, for example. 
BURKE Are these the same...? 
Ripley nods, unable to speak.  Burke leans closer in fascination.  His face almost touching one cylinder, is lit by its glow. 
RIPLEY Watch it, Burke... 
The creature inside lunges suddenly, slamming against the glass.  Burke jumps back.  From the palm of the thing's handlike body emerges a pearl-escent TUBULE. like a tapered piece of intestine, which slithers tonguelike over the inside of the glass.  Then it retracts into a sheath between the "gills." 
HICKS (to Burke) It likes you. 
Only two of the creatures seem to pulse with life. Burke taps the other stasis cylinders but the hand-things remain inertly clenched. 
BURKE These are dead.  There's just the two alive. 
On top of each cylinder is a file folder.  Ripley takes a folder from above one of the live specimens.  Inside is a medical chart printout with handwritten entries. 
RIPLEY (reading) Removed surgically before embryo implantation.  Subject:  Marachuk, John L.   Died during procedure. (looking up) They killed him getting it off. 
HICKS Poor bastard. 
They are startled by a LOUD BEEP.  They turn.  Hicks is intent on his motion tracker, aimed back toward the shattered barricade.  BEEP.  BEEP. 
HICKS Behind us. 
He gestures at the corridor they just passed through. 
RIPLEY One of us? 
GORMAN (into headset) Apone...where are your people? Anybody in D-Block? 
APONE (voice over; filtered) Negative.  We're all in Operations. 
Vasquez swings the smart-gun to ready position on its support arm, locking it with an authoritative CLICK.  She and Hicks head toward the source of the signal, the others following. 
INT. CORRIDOR                                            71 
Hicks' tracker is reading out more rapidly.  They turn into the kitchens, a stainless steel labyrinth. 
Ripley hangs back.  Then realizes there is nothing behind her but darkness.  She catches up to the group. 
INT. KITCHENS                                            72 
The troopers enter, their lights bouncing around the stainless steel surfaces. 
HICKS It's moving. 
Vasquez is scanning, gaze intense.  The other troops grip their weapons tightly. 
VASQUEZ Which way? 
RIPLEY Uh oh.  I made a clean spot here.  Now I've done it.  Guess I'll just have to do the whole thing. 
She pours water from a squeeze bottle onto a small cloth and gently washes the little girl's face. Newt's eyes seem to focus on her for the first time. 
RIPLEY Hard to believe...there's a little girl under all this. And a pretty one at that. 
Newt gazes at her.  Ripley smiles. 
INT. OPERATIONS                                          74 
The ground teams are gathered around a terminal in the computer center.  Hudson has the CPU main computer on-line and reading out. 
TIGHT ON MONITOR SCREEN  as an abstract of the main colony ground plan drifts across the screen. Searching. 
Hudson bashes at the keyboard, his fingers dancing expertly. 
BURKE (to Gorman) What's he scanning for? 
GORMAN PDT'S.  Personal-Data Transmitters. Every adult colonist had one surgically implanted. 
HUDSON If they're within twenty klicks we'll read it out here, but so far...zip. 
INT. OFFICE                                              75 
Ripley is washing Newt's tiny hands with a cloth, pink skin emerging from black grime. 
RIPLEY I don't know how you managed to stay alive but you're one brave kid, Rebecca. 
Newt's voice is almost inaudible. 
NEWT N-newt. 
Ripley leans closer.  Feels like she's breathing on coals.  The sound was incomprehensible. 
RIPLEY What did you say? 
NEWT Newt.  My n-name's Newt. Nobody calls me Rebecca except my dork brother. 
Ripley grins inanely, not wanting to move or speak... or break the spell. 
RIPLEY Well, Newt it is then.  My name's Ripley...and people call me Ripley. 
Ripley picks up her tiny limp hand, shaking it formally. 
RIPLEY Pleased to meet you.  And who is this?  Does she have a name? 
Newt glances at the disembodied doll, still clutched in one filthy hand. 
NEWT Casey.  She's my only friend. 
RIPLEY What about me? 
Newt's reply is flat, neutral. 
NEWT I don't want you for a friend. 
RIPLEY Why not? 
NEWT Because you'll be gone soon, like the others.  Like everybody.  You'll be dead and you'll leave me alone. 
Ripley gazes at her, chilled both by the ominous statement and by the situation which could have produced this outlook in a child. 
RIPLEY Oh, Newt.  You mom and dad went away like that, didn't they? 
Newt nods, staring at her knees. 
RIPLEY (soothingly) They'd be here if they could, honey.  I know they would. 
NEWT (with cold certainty) They're dead. 
RIPLEY Newt.  Look at me...Newt.  I won't leave you.  I promise. 
NEWT You promise? 
RIPLEY Cross my heart. 
NEWT And hope to die? 
Ripley smiles grimly at the inadvertently macabre expression. 
RIPLEY I don't know. 
GORMAN (to team) Proceed inside. 
INT. ALIEN STRUCTURE                                     83 
They enter the organic labyrinth, playing their lights over the walls.  Revealing a BIO-MECHANICAL LATTICE, like the marrow of some vast bone.  The air is thick with STEAM.  Trickling water.  The place seems almost alive. 
INT. APC                                                 84 
They watch in various helmet-camera P.O.V.'s of the wall detail. 
RIPLEY (low) Oh God... 
CLOSE ON VIDEO  as it PAN SLOWLY...REVEALING a bas-relief of detritus from the colony:  furniture, wiring, human bones, skulls...Fused together with a translucent, epoxylike substance. 
DIETRICH (voice over; static) Looks like some sort of secreted resin. 
GORMAN They ripped apart the colony for building materials. 
RIPLEY And the colonists...When they were done with them. (turning) Newt, you better go sit up front.  Go on. 
INT. ALIEN STRUCTURE                                     85 
Steam swirls around them as the troopers move deeper inside. 
FROST Hotter'n hell in here. 
HUDSON Yeah...but it's a dry heat. 
INT. APC                                                 86 
Ripley leans forward suddenly, studying the graphic readout of the STATION GROUND PLAN. 
RIPLEY They're right under the primary heat exchangers. 
BURKE Yeah?  Maybe the organisms like the heat, that's why they built... 
RIPLEY That's not what I mean.  Gorman, if your men have to use their weapons in there, they'll rupture the cooling system. 
BURKE (realizing) She's right. 
GORMAN So. 
RIPLEY So...then the fusion containment shuts down. 
GORMAN (impatient) So?  So? 
BURKE We're talking thermonuclear explosion. 
GORMAN Shit. (into mike) Apone, collect magazines from everybody.  We can't have any firing in there. 
INT. ALIEN STRUCTURE                                     87 
The troopers look at each other in dismay. 
WIERZBOWSKI Is he fucking crazy? 
HUDSON What're we supposed to use, man?  Harsh language? 
GORMAN (voice over; static) Flame-units only.  I want rifles slung. 
APONE Let's go.  Pull 'em out. 
He walks among the troopers, collecting the magazines from each one's weapon. 
Vasquez turns hers over reluctantly. 
The three who are carrying them get out small incinerator units.  When Apone moves on, Vasquez slips a spare magazine from concealment and inserts it in her weapon.  Drake does the same.  Hicks hangs back in the shadows.  He opens a cylindrical sheath attached to his battle-harness.  Slides out an old style PUMP TWELVE-GAUGE with a sawed-off butt stock.  Chambers a round. 
HICKS (low, to Hudson) I always keep this handy. For close encounter. 
APONE (o.s.) Let's move.  Hicks, back us up. 
INT. LARGER CHAMBER                                      88 
The air is thick.  Lights flare. 
GORMAN (voice over; very faint) Any movement? 
Vasquez rips off her headset.  She is riveted to the targetting screen, moving ferret-quick in a pivoting dance.  Thunder and lightning.  Better than sex for her.  FLASH-CRACK!  An alien SCREECH from the darkness. 
INT. APC                                                 95 
The battle of phantoms unfolds on the video screens. Ripley flinches as another scream comes over the open frequency.  Wierzbowski's monitor breaks up. His life signs plummet.  Voices blend and overlap. 
HUDSON (voice over) Let's get the fuck out of here! 
HICKS (voice over) Not that tunnel, the other one! 
CROWE (voice over) You sure?  Watch it...behind you.  Fucking move, will you! 
Gorman is ashen.  Confused.  Gulping for air like a grouper.  How could the situation have unravelled so fast? 
RIPLEY (to Gorman) GET THEM OUT OF THERE!  DO IT NOW! 
GORMAN Shut up.  Just shut up! 
CRASH!  Crowe's telemetry cuts off like the plug was pulled.  Flat line. 
GORMAN Uh,...Apone, I want you to lay down a suppressing fire with the incinerators and fall back by squads to the APC, over. 
APONE (voice over; heavy static) Say again?  All after incinerators? 
Ripley watches it fall apart. 
GORMAN I said... 
INT. COCOON CHAMBER                                      96 
Apone adjusts his headset. 
GORMAN (voice over; static) ...lay down (garbled) ...by squads to...(garbled) 
Gorman's voice breaks up completely.  A SCREAM. Apone whirls, uncertain. 
APONE Dietrich?  Crowe?  Sound off!  Wierzbowski? 
Nothing.  He spins.  Almost blows Hudson's head off. 
HUDSON (freaked) We're getting juked!  We're gonna die in here! 
Apone hands him a magazine.  Hudson slaps it home, looking truly terrified. 
APONE Yeah.  Right.  Right!  Fuck the heat exchanger! 
He FIRES.  Vasquez, nearby, is laying down a horrendous field of fire.  Strobe-bright flashes sear the darkness.  She pivots, firing mechanically in controlled bursts.  Scoring points in her own private video game. 
She SPINS as Hicks approached laterally.  WHAM!  She fires "at" him.  Hicks whirls...to see a nightmarish figure right behind him, catapulted backwards by Vasquez' blast. 
INT. APC                                                 97 
Apone's monitor SPINS CRAZILY AND GOES DARK. 
GORMAN (distantly) I told them to fall back... 
RIPLEY (viciously) They're but off!  Do something! 
But he's gone.  Total brain-lock. 
TIGHT ON RIPLEY  as she struggles with a decision. She's terrified...of what she knows she's about to do.  But more than that, she's furious.  Shouldering past a paralyzed Gorman she runs up the aisle of the APC. 
RIPLEY (in passing) Newt, put your seatbelt on! 
Ripley jumps into the driver's seat of the APC.  Takes a deep breath.  Starts slapping switches. 
GORMAN Ripley, what the hell...? 
She slams the tractor into gear. 
EXT. APC                                                 98 
as the drive-wheels spin on the wet ground.  The massive machine leaps forward. 
INT. APC                                                 99 
Ripley sees smoke pouring out of the complex ahead as she slides sideways onto the descending rampway. She slams the left and right drive-wheel actuators viciously, spinning the machine in a roaring pivot. Gorman lunges forward along the aisle, abandoning his command center. 
GORMAN (shrill) What are you doing?  Turn around!  That's an order! 
HUDSON Jesus...Jesus...I don't believe it. 
Burke tries to have a look at Hudson's arm. 
HUDSON (jerking away) I'm all right, leave it! 
Ripley joins Hicks who is bent over Gorman, checking for a pulse. 
HICKS He's alive.  I think he's paralyzed. 
VASQUEZ He's fucking dead! 
She grabs Gorman by the collar, hauling him up roughly, ready to pulp him with her other fist. 
VASQUEZ (to Gorman) Wake up pendejo!  I'm gonna kill you, you useless fuck! 
Hicks pushes her back.  Right in her face. 
HICKS Hold it.  Hold it.  Back off, right now. 
Vasquez releases Gorman.  His head smacks the deck. Ripley opens Gorman's tunic, revealing a bloodless purple puncture wound. 
RIPLEY Looks like it stung him. 
HUDSON Hey...hey!  Look, Crowe and Dietrich aren't dead, man. 
They turn to see Hudson at the MTOB monitors, pointing at the bio-function screens. 
HUDSON They must be like Gorman.  Their signs are real low but they ain't dead! 
Hudson is pale, panicky, and his voice echoes around the tiny metallic space and comes back to all of them as the near hysteria they all feel, fluttering just at the edges of their minds. 
RIPLEY You can't help them.  Right now they're being cocooned just like the others. 
HUDSON (sagging) Oh, God.  Jesus.  This ain't happening. 
Ripley and Vasquez lock eyes.  Ripley doesn't want it to be "I told you so" but Vasquez reads it that way.  She turns away with a snap. 
INT. MED LAB                                            108 
Bishop is hunched over an occular probe doing a dissection of one of the dead parasites.  Spunkmeyer enters with some electronics gear on a hand truck and parks it near Bishop's work table. 
SPUNKMEYER Need anything else? 
Bishop waves "no" without looking up. 
EXT. COLONY - DROP-SHIP                                 109 
Spunkmeyer emerges, crossing the Tarmac to the loading ramp of the ship.  As he nears the top of the ramp, his boot slips...skidding on something wet.  Kneeling, he touches a small puddle of thick slime.  He shrugs, and hits the controls to retract the ramp and close the doors. 
INT. APC                                                110 
ON VASQUEZ  wired and intense. 
VASQUEZ All right, we can't blow the fuck out of them...why not roll some canisters of CN-20 down there. Nerve gas the whole nest? 
HUDSON Look, man, let's just bug out and call it even, okay? 
RIPLEY (to Vasquez) No good.  How do we know it'll effect their biochemistry?  I say we take off and nuke the entire site from orbit.  It's the only way to be sure. 
BURKE Now hold on a second.  I'm not authorizing that action. 
RIPLEY Why not? 
Burke senses the challenge in her tone and backpedals flawlessly into conciliatory mode. 
BURKE Well, I mean...I know this is an emotional moment, but let's not make snap judgments.  Let's move cautiously.  First, this physical installation had a substantial dollar value attached to it -- 
RIPLEY They can bill me.  I got a tab running.  What's second? 
BURKE This is clearly an important species we're dealing with here. We can't just arbitrarily exterminate them -- 
RIPLEY Bullshit! 
VASQUEZ Yeah, bullshit.  Watch us. 
HUDSON Maybe you haven't been keeping up on current events, but we just got out asses kicked, pal! 
Ripley faces Burke squarely and she's not pleased. 
NEWT I guess we're not leaving, right? 
RIPLEY I'm sorry, Newt. 
NEWT You don't have to be sorry.  It wasn't your fault. 
HUDSON (kicking rocks) Just tell me what the fuck we're supposed to do now.  What're we gonna do now? 
BURKE (annoyed) May be could build a fire and sing songs. 
NEWT We should get back, 'cause it'll be dark soon.  They come mostly at night.  Mostly. 
Ripley follows Newt's look to the AP station looming in the twilight, the burning drop-ship wreckage jammed into its basal structure. 
EXT. CONTROL BLOCK - NIGHT                              115 
The wind howls mournfully around the metal buildings, dry and cold. 
INT. OPERATIONS                                         116 
The weary and demoralized group is gathered to take stock of their grim options.  Vasquez and Hudson are just setting down a scorched and dented packing case, one of several culled from the APC wreckage. 
Hicks indicates their remaining inventory of weapons, lying on a table. 
HICKS This is all we could salvage.  We've got four pulse-rifles with about fifty rounds each.  Not so good. About fifteen M-40 grenades and two flame throwers less than half full...one damaged.  And We've got four of these robot-sentry units with scanners and display intact. 
He opens one of the scorched cases, revealing a high-tech servo-actuated machine gun with optical sensing equipment, packed in foam. 
RIPLEY How long after we're declared overdue can we expect a rescue? 
HICKS About seventeen days. 
HUDSON Man, we're not going to make it seventeen hours!  Those things are going to come in here, just like they did before, man... they're going to come in here and get us, man, long before... 
RIPLEY She survived longer than that with no weapons and no training. 
Ripley indicates Newt, who salutes Hudson smartly. 
RIPLEY So you better just start dealing with it.  Just deal with it, Hudson...because we need you and I'm tired of your bullshit.  Now get on a terminal and call up some kind of floor plan file. Construction blueprints, maintenance schematics, anything that shows the layout of this place.  I want to see air ducts, electrical access tunnels, subbasements.  Every possible way into this wing. 
Hudson gathers himself, thankful for the direction. Hicks nods approval of her handling of it. 
HUDSON Aye-firmative.  I'm on it. 
BISHOP I'll be in medical.  I'd like to continue my analysis. 
RIPLEY Fine.  You do that. 
INT. OPERATIONS                                         117 
Burke, Ripley, Hudson and Hicks are bent over a large HORIZONTAL VIDEOSCREEN, like an illuminated chart table. Newt hops from one foot to the other to see. 
RIPLEY This service tunnel is how they're moving back and forth. 
HUDSON Yeah, right, it runs from the processing station right into the sublevel here. 
He traces a finger along the abstract ground plan. 
RIPLEY All right.  There's a fire door at this end.  The first thing we do is put a remote sentry in the tunnel and seal that door. 
HICKS We gotta figure on them getting into the complex. 
RIPLEY That's right.  So we put up welded barricades at these intersections... (pointing) ...and seal these ducts here and here.  Then they can only come at us from these two corridors and we create a free field of fire for the other two sentry units, here. 
Hicks contemplates her game plan and raises his hand, satisfied. 
HICKS Outstanding.  Then all we need's a deck of cards.  All right, let's move like we got a purpose. 
HUDSON Aye-firmative. 
NEWT (imitating Hudson) Aye-firmative! 
INT. SERVICE TUNNEL - SUBLEVEL                          118 
A long straight service tunnel, lined with conduit, seems to go on forever.  Vasquez and Hudson have finished setting up two of the robot sentry guns on tripods in the tunnel. 
VASQUEZ (shouting) Testing! 
She hurls a wastebasket down the tunnel, into the automatic field of fire.  The sentry guns swivel smoothly, the wastebasket bounces once...and is riddled by two quick bursts of EXPLODING 10MM ROUNDS into dime-sized shrapnel.  They retreat behind a heavy steel FIRE DOOR which they roll closed on its track.  Vasquez, using a PORTABLE WELDING TORCH, begins sealing the door to its frame, as Hudson paces nervously. 
NEWT Where is she? 
RIPLEY (quietly) Gone. 
NEWT You mean dead. 
It's more statement than question.  Ripley nods slowly. 
She turns, reaching for a PORTABLE SPACE HEATER sitting nearby, and slides it closer to the bed.  She switches it on.  It HUMS and emits a cozy orange glow. 
NEWT Ripley, I was just thinking... Maybe I could do you a favor and fill in for her.  Just for a while.  You can try it and if you don't like it, it's okay. I'll understand.  No big deal. Whattya think? 
Ripley gazes at her a long time before answering... a conflict between the urge to crush the child to her in a forever hug and the knowledge that neither of them may see another dawn. 
RIPLEY I think it's not the worst idea I've heard all day.  Let's talk about it later. 
She switches off the light and starts to rise.  Newt grabs her arm.  A plaintive voice in the dark. 
NEWT Don't go!  Please. 
RIPLEY I'll be right in the other room, Newt.  And look...I can see you on that camera right up there. 
Newt looks at the VIDEO SECURITY CAMERA above the door. Ripley unsnaps the TRACKER BRACELET given to her by Hicks and puts it on Newt's tiny wrist, cinching it down. 
RIPLEY Here.  Take is for luck.  Now go to sleep...and don't dream. 
Ripley walks away and Newt rolls on her side, hugging Casey and gazing at the hypnotically pulsing function light on the bracelet.  The space heater hums comfortingly. 
INT. MED LAB                                            123 
ECU Gorman, his eyelids slitted open like those of a corpse, but with the eyes tracking erratically.  The only sign of life. 
RIPLEY (voice over) How is he? 
Ripley stands over the Lieutenant, who is lying motionless on an examining table.  Bishop looks up from his instruments nearby, the light of a single gooseneck lamp giving his features a macabre cast. 
BISHOP I've isolated a neuro-muscular toxin responsible for the paralysis.  It seems to be metabolizing.  He should wake up soon. 
RIPLEY Now let me get this straight. The aliens paralyzed the colonists, carried them over there, cocooned them to be hosts for more of those... 
Ripley points at the stasis cylinders containing the face-hugger specimens. 
RIPLEY Which would mean lots of those parasites, right?  One for each person...over a hundred at least. 
BISHOP Yes.  That follows. 
RIPLEY But these things come from eggs...so where are all the eggs coming from. 
BISHOP That is the question of the hour.  We could assume a parallel to certain insect forms who have hivelike organization. An ant of termite colony, for example, is ruled by a single female, a queen, which is the source of new eggs. 
RIPLEY You're saying one of those things lays all the eggs? 
BISHOP Well, the queen is always physically larger then the others.  A termite queen's abdomen is so bloated with eggs that it can't move at all.  It is fed and tended by drone workers, defended by the warriors.  She is the center of their lives, quite literally the  mother of their society. 
RIPLEY Could it be intelligent? 
BISHOP Hard to say.  It may have been blind instinct...attraction to the heat of whatever...but she did choose to incubate her eggs in the one spot where we couldn't destroy her without destroying ourselves.  That's if she exists, of course. 
Ripley ponders the ramifications of Bishop's analysis. 
RIPLEY (rising) I want those specimens destroyed as soon as you're done with them. You understand? 
Bishop glances at the creatures, pulsing malevolently in their cylinders. 
BISHOP Mr. Burke have instructions that they were to be kept alive in stasis for return to the company labs.  He was very specific. 
Ripley feels the fabric of her self-restraint tearing. She slaps the intercom switch. 
RIPLEY Burke! 
INT. MED LAB ANNEX                                      124 
In a small observation chamber separated from the med lab by a glass partition, Ripley and Burke have squared off. 
BURKE Those specimens are worth millions to the bio-weapons division.  Now, if you're smart we can both come out of this heroes.  Set up for life. 
RIPLEY You just try getting a dangerous organism past ICC quarantine. Section 22350 of the Commerce Code. 
BURKE You've been doing your homework. Look, they can't impound it if they don't know about it. 
HUDSON I don't fucking believe this. Do you believe this? 
RIPLEY And it's too late to shut it down? 
BISHOP I'm afraid so.  The crash did too much damage.  The overload is inevitable, at this point. 
HUDSON Oh, man.  And I was gettin' short, too!  Four more weeks and out. Now I'm gonna buy it on this fuckin' rock.  It ain't half fair, man! 
VASQUEZ Hudson, give us a break. 
They watch as another gas jet lights up the fog-shrouded landscape. 
RIPLEY (to Hicks) We need the other drop-ship.  The on one the Sulaco.  We have to bring it down on remote, somehow. 
HUDSON How?  The transmitter was on the APC.  It's wasted. 
RIPLEY (pacing) I don't care how!  Think of a way.  Think of something. 
HUDSON Think of what?  We're fucked. 
RIPLEY What about the colony transmitter? That up-link tower down at the other end.  Why can't we use that? 
BISHOP I checked.  The hard wiring between here and there was severed in the fighting. 
Ripley is wound up like a dynamo, her mind spinning out options, grim solutions. 
RIPLEY Well then somebody's just going to have to go out there.  Take a portable terminal and go out there and plug in manually. 
HUDSON Oh, right!  Right!  With those things running around.  No way. 
BISHOP (quietly) I'll go. 
RIPLEY What? 
BISHOP I'm really the only one qualified to remote-pilot the ship anyway. Believe me, I'd prefer not to.  I may be synthetic but I'm not stupid. 
RIPLEY All right.  Let's get on it.  What'll you need? 
VASQUEZ Listen.  It's stopped. 
They listen.  Nothing.  An instant later comes the HIGH-PITCHED TRILLING of a motion-sensor alarm.  Hicks looks at the tactical board. 
HICKS Well, they're into the complex. 
INT. MED LAB                                            130 
One of the acid holes from the colonists' siege has yielded access to subfloor conduits.  Bishop lying in the opening, reaches up to graph the portable terminal as Ripley hands it down to him.  He pushes it into the constricted shaft ahead of him.  She then hands him a small satchel containing tools and assorted patch cables, a service pistol and a small cutting torch. 
BISHOP This duct runs almost to the up-link assembly.  One hundred eighty meters.  Say, forty minutes to crawl down there.  One hour to patch in and align the antenna. Thirty minutes to prep the ship, then about fifty minutes flight time. 
Ripley looks at her watch. 
RIPLEY It's going to be closer.  You better get going. 
BISHOP (cheerfully) See you soon. 
She squirms into the shaft, pushing the equipment along ahead of him with a scraping rhythm.  The diameter of the conduit is barely larger than the width of his shoulders.  Vasquez slides a metal plate over the hole and begins spot welding it in place. 
INT. CONDUIT                                            131 
Bishop looks back as the welder seals him in.  He sighs fatalistically and squirms forward.  Ahead of him the conduit dwindles straight to seeming infinity.  Like being in the bore of a very long Howitzer. 
INT. MED LAB                                            132 
Ripley jumps as an ALARM suddenly blares through the complex. 
HICKS (voice over) They're in the approach corridor. 
RIPLEY (into mike) On my way. 
Ripley jumps up, unslinging a FLAMETHROWER from her shoulder in one motion, and sprints for Operations with Vasquez.  The sound of SENTRY GUNS opening up in staccato bursts echoes from close by. 
INT. OPERATIONS                                         133 
Ripley runs to the tactical console where Hicks is mesmerized by the images from the surveillance cameras. The flashes of the sentry guns flare out the sensitive video, but impressions of figures moving in the smoky corridor are occasionally visible.  The robot sentries hammer away, driving streamers of tracer fire into the swirling mist. 
HICKS Twenty meters and closing. Fifteen.  C and D guns down about fifty percent. 
The digital readout whirl through descending numbers. An inhuman SHRILL SCREECHING is audible between bursts of fire. 
HICKS (serious) Let's waste him. (to Burke) No offense. 
Ripley shakes her head, the rage giving way to a sickened emptiness. 
RIPLEY Just find someplace to lock him up until it's time to -- 
THE LIGHTS GO OUT.  Everyone stops in the sudden darkness, realizing instinctively it is a new escalation in the struggle.  Hicks looks at the board.  Everything is out. Doors.  Video screens. 
RIPLEY They cut the power. 
HUDSON What do you mean, they cut the power?  How could they cut the power, man?  They're animals. 
Ripley picks up her rifle and thumbs off the safety. 
RIPLEY Newt!  Stay close. (to the others) Let's get some trackers going. Come on, get moving.  Gorman, watch Burke. 
Hudson and Vasquez pick up their scanners and move to the door.  Vasquez has to slide it open manually on its track. 
INT. CORRIDOR                                           147 
The two troopers separate and move rapidly to the barriers at opposite ends of the control block. 
DOLLYING WITH VASQUEZ as she moves forward with feral steps in the darkness. 
ON HUDSON  scanning the med lab and the nearby barrier. 
RIPLEY (voice over) Anything? 
BEEP.  Hudson's tracker lights up, a faint signal. 
HUDSON There's something. 
He pans it around.  Back down the corridor.  It beep again, louder. 
HUDSON It's inside the complex. 
VASQUEZ (voice over) You're just reading me. 
HUDSON No.  No!  It ain't you.  They're inside.  Inside the perimeter. They're in here. 
RIPLEY Hudson, stay cool.  Vasquez? 
ANGLE ON VASQUEZ  swinging her tracker and rifle together. She aims it behind her.  BEEP. 
VASQUEZ (cool) Hudson may be right. 
INT. OPERATIONS                                         148 
Ripley and Hicks share a look..."here we go." 
HICKS (low) It's game time. 
RIPLEY Get back here, both of you.  Fall back to Operations. 
INT. CORRIDOR                                           149 
Hudson backtracks nervously, peering all around.  He looks stretched to the limit. 
HUDSON This signal's weird...must be some interference or something. There's movement all over the place... 
RIPLEY (voice over) Just get back here! 
Hudson reaches the door to operations at a run, a moment before Vasquez.  They pull the door shut and lock it. 
INT. OPERATIONS                                         150 
Hudson joins Ripley and Hicks, who are laying out their armament.  Flamethrowers.  Grenades.  M-41A magazines. Hudson's tracker beeps.  Then again.  The tone continues through the SCENE, its rhythm increasing. 
HUDSON Movement!  Signal's clean. 
He pans the scanner.  Stops.  The range display reads out, counting down. 
HUDSON Range twenty meters. 
RIPLEY (to Vasquez) Seal the door. 
Vasquez picks up a hand-welder and moves to comply. 
HUDSON Seventeen meters. 
RIPLEY (indicating door) Locked. 
HICKS Stand back. 
Hicks snaps the torch off his belt and cuts into the lock.  Inhuman shapes enter the far end of the corridor. Vasquez hands her flamethrower to Gorman and unslings her rifle.  She starts loading 30mm grenades into the launcher, like oversize 12-guage shells. 
GORMAN You can't use those in here! 
VASQUEZ Right.  Fire in the hole! 
She pumps a round up and fires.  The grenade EXPLODES and the blast almost knocks them down.  Hicks kicks the door open, molten droplets flying. 
HICKS (shouting at Vasquez) Thanks a lot!  Now I can't hear shit. 
VASQUEZ (shouting) What? 
INT. MED LAB ANNEX                                      156 
Vasquez slides the door almost closed, then fires three grenades rapid-fire through the gap.  She slams the door home as the grenades detonate, the explosion sounding gonglike through the metal. 
Ripley sprints across the room, trying the far door. Burke has locked it as well.  Hicks switches his hand-torch from CUT to WELD and starts sealing the door they just passed through. 
INT. MED LAB                                            157 
Burke, hyperventilating with terror, backs across the dark chamber.  Gasping, almost paralyzed with fear, he crosses the chamber to the door leading to the main concourse.  His fingers reach for the latch.  It moves by itself.  The door opens slowly. 
ON BURKE  his eyes wide, transfixed by his fate.  We hear the BULLWHIP CRACK of a tail-stinger striking as we: 
CUT TO: 
INT. MED LAB ANNEX                                      158 
The door dimples with a clanging impact, separating slightly from its frame.  Another crash, the squeal of tortured steel.  Newt grabs Ripley by the hand and tugs her across the room. 
NEWT Come on!  This way. 
She leads Ripley to an air vent set low in the wall and expertly unlatches the grille, swinging it open.  Newt starts inside but Ripley pulls her back. 
RIPLEY Stay behind me. 
Ripley trades her rifle for Gorman's flamethrower before he can protest and enters the air shaft, which is a tight fit.  Newt scrambles in behind, followed by Hicks, Gorman and Vasquez on rearguard.  Glancing back fearfully Newt pushes on Ripley's butt as they crawl rapidly through the shaft. 
NEWT Come on.  Crawl faster. 
RIPLEY DO you know how to get to the landing field from here? 
NEWT Sure.  Go left. 
Ripley turns into a larger MAIN DUCT where there is enough room to crab-walk in a low crouch.  She runs, scraping her back on the ceiling.  The troopers' armor clatters in the confined space.  They approach an intersection.  She fires the flamethrower around the corner, the looks.  Clear. 
NEWT Go right. 
They sprint into the narrow connecting duct, the maze becoming a blur.  Ripley fires the flamethrower periodically, as they pass side ducts covered by louvered grilles or vertical shafts going to higher or lower levels. 
HICKS (into headset) Bishop, you read me?  Come in, over. 
There is a long pause then Bishop's VOICE, almost unintelligible with interference, comes over the radio. 
BISHOP (voice over; static) Yes, I read you.  Not very well... 
EXT. UP-LINK RELAY - LANDING FIELD                      159 
Bishop is huddled against the base of the telemetry mast, out of the wind which is now gusting viciously. 
BISHOP (yelling; over enunciating) The ship is on its way.  ETA about sixteen minutes.  I've got my hands full flying... the weather's come up a bit. 
Bishop's fingers are blurring over the terminal keys and he squints, watching the screen as the flight telemetry updates rapidly. 
In the b.g. the AP station has become a raging demon, wreathed in boiling steam and electrical discharges. 
INT. AIR DUCT                                           160 
HICKS All right, stand by there.  We're on out way.  Over. 
The beam of Ripley's light wavers hypnotically in the tunnel ahead.  She blinks, seeing something...not sure. A GLINTING OBSCENE FORM MOVING TOWARD THEM, filling the tunnel at the absolute limit of the light's power. 
RIPLEY Back.  Go back! 
They try to crawl back, jamming together.  Behind them, the way they have come, a GRATING is battered in with a FEROCIOUS CLANG and the deadly silhouette of a warrior flows into the duct.  They are trapped.  Vasquez uses her flamethrower, bathing the tunnel in fire.  Hicks snaps out his hand-welder and cuts into the wall of the duct.  Molten metal spatters him, as sparks fill the tunnel with lurid light.  Vasquez' flamethrower sputters. 
Lashing in a frenzy, the QUEEN DETACHES FROM THE EGG SAC, ripping away and dragging torn cartilage and tissue behind it.  SEEN DIMLY THROUGH swirling smoke, it rises on its powerful legs and steps forward. 
INT. CATACOMBS - CORRIDOR                               178- 
Ripley uses the flamethrower ahead of her, firing bursts of pulse-rifle fire down side corridors at indistinct shapes and shadows.  The weapon is empty when she reaches the freight elevators.  A mass of debris, falling down the shaft from a higher level, has demolished the life cage she descended in.  She slams the control for the other cage and hears the sound of the LIFT MOTOR'S WHINE as it begins its slow descent from several levels up.  AN ENRAGED SCREECH ECHOES in the corridor.  Ripley sees a silhouette moving in the smoke...a glistening black shape which FILLS THE CORRIDOR TO THE CEILING...THE QUEEN.  Her last cartridge is reading zeroes.  The flamethrower sputters uselessly when she tries that. The grenades are gone.  Ripley drops the weapon and looks up the shaft to the descending lift...then at the approaching FIGURE.  The elevator won't be in time. She runs to a ladder set in the wall as a horrendous screech beats in her ears.  She scrambles up the rungs. 
INT. SECOND LEVEL                                       180 
Ripley struggles up through a narrow hatch, Newt clinging to her.  She dives aside as a POWERFUL BLACK ARM shoots up through the opening, its razor claws slamming into the grille-floor inches from her.  Looking down through the grille she sees the great horrifying jaws directly below her, wet and leering.  She scrambles up, running, as the grille-floor lifts and buckles behind her with the titanic force of the creature below. It hurls itself with insane ferocity against the metal, pacing her from below as she runs. 
INT. STAIRWELL                                          181 
Ripley reaches an open-grid emergency stairwell and sprints upward.  It rocks and shudders with the station's death throes. 
VOICE You now have two minutes to reach minimum safe distance. 
INT. CORRIDOR - ELEVATORS                               182- 
The lift reaches bottom, the doors rolling open. The Queen turns and freezes, as if contemplating the open lift cage. 
INT. STAIRWELL                                          184 
Ripley stumbles, smashing her knees against the metals stairs.  As she rises she hears the LIFT MOTORS start up.  Looking down through the lattice work of the station she sees the life cage start ominously upward.  She knows there is only one explanation for that.  She runs on, the stairwell becoming a crazy whirl around her. 
EXT. LANDING PLATFORM                                   185 
Ripley, with Newt still clinging to her, slams through the door opening onto the platform. Through wind-whipped streamers of smoke she sees...THE SHIP IS GONE. 
RIPLEY BISHOP! 
Her shouts become inarticulate screams of hatred, outrage at the final betrayal.  She scans the sky. Nothing. 
RIPLEY (hysterical) BISHOP! 
Newt is sobbing. 
The lift rises ponderously INTO VIEW.  Ripley turns, backing away from the doors toward the railing.  There is no place to run to on the platform.  EXPLOSIONS detonate in the complex far below and huge fireballs swell upward through the machinery.  The platform bucks wildly.  Nearby a cooling tower collapses with a THUNDEROUS ROAR and the SHRIEK OF RENDING STEEL.  More EXPLOSIONS, one after another, rocketing up from below. Ripley stares transfixed as the lift stops.  The safety cage parts. 
RIPLEY (to Newt; low) Close your eyes, baby. 
The lift doors begin to open.  A glimpse of the apparition within. 
ANGLE ON RIPLEY AND NEWT  as the drop-ship RISES RIGHT BEHIND THEM, its hovering jets roaring. 
VOICE You now have thirty seconds to reach... 
Ripley leaps for the loading boom projecting down from the cargo bay and it raises them into the ship.  A TREMENDOUS EXPLOSION RIPS THROUGH THE COMPLEX nearby, slamming the ship sideways.  Its extended landing legs foul in a tangle of conduit, grinding with a hideous squeal of metal on metal. 
INT./EXT. DROP-SHIP - STATION                           186- 
Ripley leaps into a seat with Newt, cradling her.  Begins strapping in.  Bishop wrestles with the controls.  The landing legs retract, ripping free.  Ripley slams her seat harness latches home. 
RIPLEY Punch it, Bishop! 
The entire lower level of the station disappears in a fireball.  The air vibrates with intense heat waves and concussion.  The drop-ship engines fire.  Ripley is slammed back in her seat.  The ship vaults out and up, Bishop standing it on its tail, pouring on the gees. Ripley and Newt see everything shake into a blur. 
EXT. STRATOSPHERE                                       188 
The drop-ship lunges up and out of the cloud layer into the clear high night.  Below, the clouds light up from beneath from horizon to horizon. 
A SUN HOT DOME OF ENERGY bursts up through the cloud layer, WHITING OUT THE FRAME.  The tiny ship is slammed by the shockwave, tossed forward...and climbs, scorched but functioning, toward the stars. 
INT. DROP-SHIP                                          189 
Ripley and Newt watch the blinding glare fade away and they sit, wide-eyed, trembling, realizing they are finally and truly safe.  Newt starts to cry quietly, and Ripley strokes her hair. 
RIPLEY It's okay, baby.  We made it.  It's over. 
INT. SULACO CARGO LOCK - IN ORBIT - LATER               190 
The scorched and battered ship once again sits in its drop-bay, steam blasting from cooling vents beside the engine.  Rotating clearance lights sweep the dark chamber hypnotically. 
INT. DROP-SHIP                                          191 
Bishop stands behind Ripley as she kneels beside a comatose Hicks. 
BISHOP I gave him a shot, for the pain. We'll need to get a stretcher to cart him up to medical. 
Ripley nods and, picking up Newt, precedes Bishop down the aisle to the loading ramp. 
