Alien Nation - by Rochne O'Bannon Rewrite by James Cameron 
ALIEN NATION 
Original Screenplay 
by 
Rockne S. O'Bannon 
Rewrite 
by 
James Cameron 
October 1987 
FADE IN: 
EXT.  MOJAVE DESERT - DAY (TELEVISION IMAGE) 
A LONG LENS SHOT of a far distant metallic object hovering just above the ground -- maybe two or three miles away. The heat waves and the light refraction off the desert- scape make the object undulate rhythmically, keeping its true shape and appearance indistinct. 
The VIDEO CAMERA recording this scene zooms back, then pans over -- revealing a semicircle of US Army vehicles and personnel.  Army Engineers with their tripod-mounted scopes and binoculars are shoulder to shoulder with the armed infantry.  Everyone stares off at the same point on the horizon.  Waiting. 
The VIDEO CAMERA movements are HANDHELD, unsteady, as it moves through the line of Army personnel to reveal a second, less organized semicircle of observers fifty yards behind the Army.  LOCALS from nearby towns perch in truck beds and on car roofs, Budweiser and Fritos at hand, eyes glued to the distant object. 
The VIDEO CAMERA image climbs up onto the roof of a parked local TV van, finds the object again in the distance, zooms in, and waits, like everyone else. 
Abruptly the VIDEO IMAGE contracts, becoming a box CHROMAKEYED behind CNN reporter DUNCAN CRAIS. 
CRAIS That was the scene in California's Mojave Desert three years ago today -- the historic first view of the Newcomer ship upon its dramatic arrival.  As with the assassination of John Kennedy, who among us does not remember exactly where he was that October nineteenth morning, when news first broke: that people have landed... from another star. 
We PULL BACK from a large television set to reveal... 
INT.  A CROWDED BAR - LOS ANGELES - NIGHT 
The Hollowpoint Lounge -- a cop bar. 
The off-duty uniformed and plainclothes cops are mostly ignoring the TV, except for two detectives, FEDORCHUK and ALTEREZ, who are waiting for the ball scores. 
FEDORCHUK I remember where I was -- pissing off my balcony at the neighbor's dog! 
Others laugh. 
ALTEREZ (yells at Crais on TV) Get to the goddamn ball scores! 
ON THE TV SCREEN, an on-location interview with a CAL-TECH PROFESSOR comes up.  Her name and title appear across the bottom of the screen. 
CAL-TECH PROFESSOR From the time mankind first gazed up at the stars there had been speculation about a visit by people from "out there."  How ironic that when that first contact was made, the two hundred and sixty thousand occupants aboard the craft were as surprised as we were about their arrival.  That they awakened from frozen hibernation to find their malfunctioning autopilot had landed them here by mistake. 
The CNN reporter, Duncan Crais, appears again. 
CRAIS These "Newcomers," we soon learned, were a genetically-engineered race, adapted for hard labor in almost any environmental condition.  In effect, their ship was a slave ship... washed ashore on Earth with no way to get back to where they came from... 
A dishwasher tray filled with beer glasses CUTS ACROSS FRAME, and we PAN WITH IT as it is slammed down on the countertop. 
Now an interview with a FRESNO HOUSEWIFE standing outside a supermarket comes on the TV SCREEN. 
FRESNO HOUSEWIFE When the Newcomers were first let out of the ship, they were quarantined in a camp not ten miles from the town here.  You can imagine how the people around here felt about that.  But once they were releases from the camp and we got a chance to know them, we saw what nice, quiet people they really are... 
WIDER 
revealing a MASSIVE ALIEN FIGURE in a filthy white busboy's uniform.  His back is to us as he picks up two trays from the counter.  The bartender is dwarfed by this Newcomer, but works around him without apparent concern. Fedorchuk addresses the alien busboy. 
FEDORCHUK Hey, Henry, how you doin' tonight? Workin' hard? 
The Newcomer turns -- his face is humanoid, but disturbingly alien. 
FEDORCHUK You got your green card, buddy?  You didn't leave home without it? 
TUGGLE Whatever gave you that idea? 
EXT.  STREET - NIGHT 
Sykes continues up a quarter of a block, pulls to the curb among other parked cars. 
INT.  SEDAN - NIGHT 
Sykes is already pulling his gun.  Tuggle quickly reaches for the radio in the glovebox. 
TUGGLE This is one-Henry-seven, we've got a possible two-eleven in progress at Porter's Mini-Mart, corner of Court and Alvarado.  Requesting backup. 
Impulsive Sykes is already opening his door and climbing out. 
SYKES Let's do it, partner. 
Tuggle drops the radio mike and follows Sykes as the Radio Dispatcher confirms the call. 
EXT.  STREET - NIGHT 
The two cops, guns in hand, move along the row of parked cars across the street from the mini-mart.  Through the store window they see the old alien PROPRIETOR behind the counter.  His eyes go wide as Kipling whips back his coat and yanks out a short combat pump-shotgun and aims it right at him.  The Raincoat alien pulls an identical gun and covers the door. 
Sykes and Tuggle react to the firepower inside. 
SYKES You got your vest? 
TUGGLE Of course.  Right in the trunk of the car. 
SYKES Yeah, that's comforting.  Mine, too. 
Through the store window the robbery continues in pantomime.  Kipling gestures viciously with the shotgun, yelling orders in the alien language.  The Proprietor is quickly filling a paper bag with cash from the register. The PROPRIETOR'S WIFE, a middle-aged alien woman, stands in the doorway from the back, frozen in fear.  The Raincoat alien dances from foot to foot, antsy, wired. 
Sykes and Tuggle crouch at the car directly across the street from the store entrance. 
TUGGLE Watch the driver.  I'm going for a better angle on the door. 
SYKES I got him.  Don't get pinned. 
Tuggle leaves the cover provided by the car, runs cater- corner across the intersection. 
Through the store window Sykes sees Kipling grab the bag of cash, shove it in his coat pocket.  Bills fall out, but he doesn't care.  Then, without warning, Kipling whips up the twelve gauge and blows a hole in the Proprietor's chest!  The Proprietor slams back against the shelves, slides to the floor.  Kipling leans over the counter and FIRES another round into the Proprietor. 
SYKES (under his breath) Aw, shit. 
Tuggle is almost across the street when he hears the shots. 
The human DRIVER of the getaway car (parked at the curb a few doors down from the mini-mart) glances up, spots Tuggle.  He leans on the HORN, reaches for a machine pistol on the seat next to him. 
INT.  MINI-MART - NIGHT 
Kipling and Raincoat alien react to the horn honk.  They spot Tuggle through the store window and open fire -- BLASTING THROUGH THE GLASS. 
A civilian car enters the intersection.  The engine is hit by shotgun fire, and the car skids to a stop in the intersection, steam rising from the radiator. 
EXT.  STREET - NIGHT 
Tuggle dives behind a lamp post. 
The Driver is out of the car now, brings up the machine pistol to fire at Tuggle.  Sykes sees this and opens fire at the Driver.  The Driver turns and fires at Sykes. Sykes ducks down, and the car he's hiding behind is sprayed with bullets. 
A forty-foot moving van pulls down the street between Sykes and the Driver.  Once the truck is past, Sykes is standing behind the bullet-riddled car, gun ready.  He rapid-fires -- creaming the human Driver. 
Tuggle is pinned down behind the thin lamp post by the shotgun fire from Kipling and Raincoat alien. 
SYKES Get outta there! 
TUGGLE I can't!  Do you mind! 
SYKES I'll cover you!  Get outta there!! 
Sykes rises and runs across the street toward the getaway car, firing toward the store as he goes. 
The alien rears back, and as he does, the approaching SIREN suddenly WAILS louder as a backup patrol car swings onto the street heading this way.  Kipling sees this and leaves Sykes, running off down the dark tunnel. 
ON SYKES 
dazed, struggling to rise.  WE HEAR running FOOTSTEPS approaching.  Sykes turns, his eyes wild and unfocused. 
SYKES' P.O.V. 
An OUT-OF-FOCUS ALIEN FACE looming over him. 
ANGLE 
Sykes whips around in a roundhouse swing with all his weight on it, pistoning his fist straight into the alien face.  The alien, caught by surprise and off balance, sprawls backward OUT OF FRAME.  Sykes is grabbed by a human uniformed cop, as he tries to swing again. 
HUMAN COP Whoa, whoa... hold it.  Take it easy. (to alien on the ground) You okay? 
Sykes stops struggling, and his eyes focus.  He looks at the alien he just decked, sprawled on his ass ten feet away.  The alien is a uniformed cop... his name is JETSON. 
JETSON I am all right. 
He gets up.  A trickle of purple blood runs from his nose. 
HUMAN COP I better call in. 
He moves off.  Jetson moves toward Sykes and the Raincoat alien's body.  Sykes tenses, thinking Jetson might retaliate in some way.  But Jetson simply steps past him to kneel beside the dead alien.  He checks for a pulse on the underside of the dead alien's upper arm.  Nothing. Sykes is holding his punching hand in obvious pain.  He struggles to rise.  Jetson gets an arm around him to help him up. 
JETSON Your hand will require attention. 
Sykes roughly jerks himself free of Jetson's grip. 
SYKES Get the hell away from me!  I don't need your goddamn help. 
He almost loses his balance and has to steady himself against the tunnel wall.  Sykes leans there, the picture of impotent rage and frustration.  Jetson looks at him, with that slight inquisitive expression aliens exhibit when trying to understand human nature. 
EXT.  MINI-MART - NIGHT 
OPEN on Tuggle's body, as the body bag is zipped up over his face, and the litter is lifted into the back of the Coroner's wagon. 
WIDEN to reveal Sykes, standing nearby, watching.  The Wagon pulls out, and Sykes turns, moving past all the LAPD black-and-whites and forensics wagons, and COPS (two of them aliens) and DETECTIVES, and RUBBERNECKERS (some alien).  He moves into: 
INT.  MINI-MART - NIGHT 
The CRIME SCENE TEAM is checking for prints, digging slugs out of the wall, photographing everything.  Several UNIFORMED COPS mill around.  Sykes moves aimlessly around the room like a stranger at a party. 
The Proprietor's Wife stands near the body in a strange rigid posture, a thin, mournful KEENING SOUND coming from her lips.  A harried female uniformed cop is trying to get her away from the body, but can't get her to budge. 
MINKLER, a ballistics guy, is tagging the pump-shotgun the Raincoat alien dropped here.  NATUZZI, a mean-looking veteran uniform cop is with him. 
NATUZZI Looks like a standard combat pump- action. 
MINKLER It is. 
NATUZZI So what punched holes clear through that car out there? 
Minkler pulls an evidence baggie from his work box. Inside are four unfired twelve gauge shells. 
MINKLER BRI Sabot slugs.  These puppies are nasty.  Two plastic sabots fall away in flight leaving a fifty-caliber slug going two thousand feet per second.  Tug might as well've been hiding behind a rosebush. 
Minkler senses somebody has just stepped up beside him. He looks.  It's Sykes. 
NATUZZI Pretty heavy artillery for knocking over a liquor store. 
A new voice enters the conversation. 
JETSON (O.S.) An identical round was used in the shooting of a Newcomer named Hubley, two days ago. 
Sykes turns -- surprised, and not especially pleased to see the voice is Jetson's. 
MINKLER Yeah?  So why the extra fire power? 
JETSON Perhaps because even the larger caliber handguns aren't always effective against my people. 
SYKES Possibly.  Good.  Well, would you be willing to accept the theory, George, that... possibly... by examining the evidence from one case we might shed some small ray of light on the other?  Does that sound unreasonable to you? 
JETSON Yes... no, it is not unreasonable. Although I-- 
SYKES Great. (a relieved sigh) Well, I'm sure glad that's settled, aren't you? 
And with that he puts the car in gear and pulls rapidly out. 
SYKES I think we're really starting to click now, George -- hmmm? 
Jetson doesn't know what to think -- he just holds on. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  HALLWAY - L.A. COUNTY MORGUE - DAY 
WINTER, a deputy Medical Examiner (human), is leading Sykes and Jetson along the hall.  He reads on the fly from a case file in his hand. 
WINTER You know I've been over all this with Fedorchuk and Alterez this morning... 
SYKES Come on.  You got nothin' better to do, cushy county job like yours. 
INT.  AUTOPSY ROOM - DAY 
They enter briskly through a swinging door.  They move among the tables (some occupied, some not) during: 
WINTER Yeah, right.  Don't push your luck. Anyway, according to the sheet, the guy you nailed outside by the car-- 
SYKES The human? 
WINTER Yeah... he was one Martin Helder. White male, twenty-seven.  Let's see... wrap sheet shows one armed robbery conviction, a couple for sale of a controlled substance. Oh yeah, and he was wired on coke when you stopped his clock. 
They have reached a table holding a covered body.  Winter unceremoniously throws back the cover.  There lies the pale naked body of the Raincoat alien. 
JETSON Have you identified this one? 
WINTER So far he's a John Doe.  Or a Sam Slag, if you like. 
Jetson smiles slightly out of politeness. 
WINTER No I.D. on him and -- well, you know, no fingerprints -- so it could be tough.  Your buddies this morning went through the mug book but couldn't make a facial match. 
SYKES Fedorchuk couldn't find his ass with his hands in his back pockets. 
Jetson nonchalantly looks over the alien body while Winter and Sykes continue talking off to one side. 
WINTER (referring to Raincoat alien) You took this gut out, too, didn't you? 
SYKES Yeah. 
WINTER Lucky for you, you got him in both of his... well, what we loosely refer to as... hearts. 
SYKES Lucky nothing.  I had to empty my damn gun into him. 
WINTER That's the way these people are. You don't hit both pumps you just piss them off. 
During this, Jetson has turned the dead alien's hand over -- sees something that brings a frown of curiosity to his face.  He leans closer, examining the palm carefully. Then he peels back the alien's upper lip. 
Jetson frowns anew, with concern this time.  He looks around, spots a Newcomer lab assistant nearby -- BENTNER. Jetson motions him over.  Jetson begins questioning him using the alien language.  Sykes and Winter nearby, remain oblivious. 
WINTER Oh, here's an extra headshot if you need one. (hands Sykes a polariod of dead alien's face) We're just about to start cutting in.  You're welcome to stick around if you want.  It's really fascinating stuff. 
SYKES Yeah, I'll bet. 
Sykes looks over, now noticing Jetson and Bentner in earnest conversation.  He only catches snatches of the alien language.  Bentner appears very unsettled by what Jetson is telling him.  In response to Jetson's final statement, Bentner nods -- as if agreeing to do something Jetson has requested.  Sykes goes over to Jetson. 
SYKES What's this?  What's going on? 
JETSON Nothing. 
SYKES (really suspicious now) Nothing? 
SYKES Well, one of the men didn't like him so much... 
They stop and Sykes hands O'Neal the polariod photo of Raincoat alien.  They have stopped near the heavy refrigeration-type door leading to the "METHANE SECTION". 
Newcomer workers move in and out through the door during: 
O'NEAL (looking at photo) You think this is the guy who did it? 
SYKES We think he could'a been involved, yeah.  You know him? 
O'NEAL To be honest, it's hard to say.  I hate to admit it but -- they all still kinda look alike to me. 
SYKES (impatient) Who else can I ask around here? 
O'NEAL (looking at photo again) Wait.  You know who it looks like? Yeah.  Anderson.  Uh... James Anderson.  He isn't in today.  He took the afternoon off. 
SYKES I think you're gonna find he's taken the rest of his life off. 
O'Neal reacts.  Sykes notices the door to the Methane Section. 
SYKES That where Anderson worked? 
O'NEAL Yes it is. (some alien workers come through the door) Thirty-five percent pure Methane gas in there.  I don't know how these fellas do it. 
Sykes watches two more alien workers pass back through the door.  O'Neal watches Sykes' expression for signs of suspicion. 
CUT TO: 
HIGH ANGLE SHOT - SYKES AND O'NEAL 
We see Sykes hand O'Neal a card, then move off.  O'Neal watches him briefly, then crosses to some steps and starts up this way. We PAN with him as he enters a door here on the second level. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  METHANE SECTION CONTROL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON 
O'Neal enters, moves to a telephone, begins to dial. Beyond is a glass wall overlooking the Methane Section. 
CUT TO: 
ANGLE - BELOW 
CAMERA TRACKS through the Methane Section... past the alien workers in lab whites... past all the arcane equipment and chemical procedures... ending in an EXTREME CLOSE UP of a small cylindrical dispenser as it fills slowly with a pale blue, viscous liquid. 
CUT TO: 
INT./ EXT.  SLUG-MOBILE - JETSON'S STREET - DUSK 
We're SHOOTING THROUGH the slug-mobile window as Sykes pulls up in front of Jetson's modest but immaculately maintained home on the outskirts of Slagtown.  Jetson's WIFE, an attractive alien woman, stands watering the lawn with a garden hose.  Jetson's son, age six, rides his bicycle along the walkway.  Jetson, dressed in his suit for work, crouches near the walkway, playing with his son. 
Sykes pulls the car toward the curb, rolls his eyes. 
SYKES Jesus.  Welcome back Ozzie and Harriet... 
He HONKS the horn.  Jetson looks up, then moves to his wife and kisses her goodbye.  Moves to his son, kisses him on the top of his head. 
Sykes watches all this... and as he does, slowly his derisive expression softens.  As corny as this tableau may be, there's something very appealing about the innocence of it... even to an unrepentant cynic like Sykes. 
Jetson starts to climb into the car, and we-- 
CUT TO: 
INT.  RESTROOM - BILTMORE HOTEL - NIGHT 
CLOSE on an alien hand as it removes one of the drug dispensers from a tuxedo pocket.  As the hand brings the dispenser toward the face, we immediately recognize the exotic silver bracelet worn by Kipling the night before. It makes that distinctive CLINKING NOISE.  We PAN with the hand to reveal Kipling's face... sans bandana and sunglasses now.  He wears a black tuxedo.  He lets a small dab of the blue gel curl from the dispenser onto his tongue.  He swallows... and reacts as the rush from the drug hits him. 
The door to the men's room bangs open and a MIDDLE AGED POLITICO enters, obviously drunk. 
Kipling quickly pockets the dispenser, moves past the Politico to the exit... 
CUT TO: 
Harcourt turns as the Mayor and his WIFE step up. 
HARCOURT Mr. Mayor... 
MAYOR William, I was wondering if you wouldn't rather ride with Luisa and me.  Two limousines trying to make it across town in all this traffic, we're bound to be later than we already are. 
HARCOURT Excellent idea.  Ray, I wonder if you know two of your police officers... Detective Jetson and Sykes. 
MAYOR (shaking their hands, dismissively) A pleasure. (to Harcourt) We really should be going. 
The wind is knocked from Sykes' sails by the presence of the Mayor with a very impatient expression.  Harcourt smiles. 
HARCOURT (continuing) Please feel free to call my office Monday morning for an appointment. (to Jetson) Congratulations again on your promotion, Detective.  Remember... you're out there setting an example in our community.  I'll be keeping an eye on you. 
Harcourt is smiling as he says this last, but his eyes are penetrating... telegraphing a subliminal warning. Harcourt and entourage move off... leaving Sykes steaming. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  BILTMORE HOTEL - HARCOURT AND KIPLING - NIGHT 
Walking behind the others.  They speak in very low voices; Harcourt continuing to nod and smile to other passing VIPs during: 
KIPLING That cop, the human, he was the one who killed Anderson and the driver. 
HARCOURT This is becoming a serious breach of security. 
KIPLING He didn't recognize me. 
HARCOURT It is his new partner that I'm worried about. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  POLICE FIRING RANGE - FRONT DESK - NIGHT 
MAFFET, the stocky retired cop behind the counter, hands Jetson a bag of reloads and some silhouette targets. Sykes nods to Jetson, motioning him toward the firing line. 
SYKES Go on ahead.  I'll be right in. (to Maffet, low) What'd you dig up for me? 
Maffet slides open a drawer, takes out a paper bag containing a massive pistol with an enormous bore.  By his manner this deal is definitely not kosher.  Sykes hefts the weapon. 
MAFFET You said you wanted the biggest thing I could find... Well, this is it. 
SYKES What is it? 
MAFFET Casull .454 Magnum.  You're talking twice the impact energy of .44 Magnum hot loads. 
SYKES (flips open cylinder) Only holds five. 
MAFFET Yeah, the shells are too big for six in an cylinder.  Hell, Matt, you don't need but one. 
SYKES (sighting) No... two. 
EXT.  SHOOTING RANGE - FIRING LINE - NIGHT 
Jetson, looking bizarre in his ear-protectors, is taking careful aim with his .38 as Sykes walks up.  Jetson slips the protectors down. 
SYKES Well, let's see what you got, Cochise.  Gimme six, rapid fire. 
Jetson, a little nervous at this command performance, turns, sets, and FIRES at the silhouette target.  It's a large, sloppy grouping. 
SYKES (continuing) How long you been shooting?  That's pitiful.  Whattya gonna do if somebody draws down on you, wave your scores on the written exam at 'em? 
Sykes starts loading the thumb-sized bullets into the Casull. 
JETSON Why did you do it? 
SYKES Why'd I do what? 
JETSON Agree to work with me?  You don't like me... you don't like any of us. You have nothing but contempt for us.  And yet you become an outcast from your club of detectives by making me your partner... 
SYKES My partner is dead!  Because one of you bastards killed him -- then disappeared into a rathole down in Slagtown, where he's home and dry, 'cause nobody sees nothing, nobody says nothing... 
SYKES (over his shoulder to Jetson) Back off, George. 
JETSON But I-- (know this man). 
SYKES I'll handle it. 
Jetson backs off, letting him handle it. 
SYKES (to Porter) Jesus, are the questions too tough for you already?  Let's try again-- (slowly) Is your name Porter? 
PORTER Ss'kya'ta'. 
SYKES (to Jetson) What's that? 
JETSON Screw you. 
SYKES (back to Porter) Screw me?  That can't be right. 
PORTER Ss'kya ta' ss'loka'.  Ss'trokya' ss'lato na'! 
JETSON (to Sykes, low) You don't want to know. 
SYKES Tell me. 
JETSON Your mother mates out of season. 
SYKES (to Porter) That's very colorful.  But see -- now I've got a problem.  I don't seem to be getting much cooperation from you, Porter.  So I guess we're gonna have to take this little session down to my office, ya know? 
And instantly Sykes whips out this flashlight, snaps on the beam, and arcs it into the faces of the aliens around him.  Jetson gets a blast of it, too.  The aliens are momentarily blinded. 
Sykes has Porter pinned to the bar, the flashlight in his face, as he starts to handcuff him.  But Porter gets a hand free and crushes the head of the flashlight. Darkness falls... along with Sykes' expression of satisfaction. 
Porter hurls Sykes back, slamming him into a table.  The crowd HOOTS and CHEERS.  Sykes finds his way to his feet. 
JETSON Matthew, you don't have to-- (do this). 
SYKES Stay back!  I'm okay. 
He charges Porter, brandishing the flashlight like a club. The two of them battle, then Sykes sees his opportunity and brings his knee up viciously into the alien's groin. Porter doubles over in feigned agony, then slowly rises again -- smiling. 
PORTER Don't they teach you anything about us in cop school, little ss'loka'? 
Porter grabs Sykes by the shirt front, is about to deliver a crushing blow, when another arm cuts into FRAME, locking with Porter's, blocking the punch.  It is Jetson. 
JETSON Enough. 
PORTER (eyeing Jetson) Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa'.  You're a cop. (with some contempt) It fits you. 
Jetson says something to him in the alien language. Porter gives him a hard stare, then moves toward the back exit.  Sykes stumbles over to Jetson. 
SYKES You know that guy? 
JETSON (nods) From quarantine, when my people first arrived here.  He and I were housed together. 
SYKES How could a straight-arrow like you ever pick a roommate like him? 
JETSON In the camps, we were lodged four to a room.  The selection process was entirely random.  We did not get to stay with our friends... or families... 
And he moves toward the back exit.  Sykes watches him go. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  "X" BAR - NIGHT 
Porter leans against an alley wall.  He speaks English learned on the streets. 
JETSON You don't know what your father and these two men were arguing about? 
PORTER I told you -- I was in the back of the store.  I just heard voices, muffled like. 
SYKES One of the two men was Hubley, right?  What about the other one? Did you know him? 
SYKES And what was that one about my mother?  That was a good one. 
JETSON Ss'trokya ss'lato 'na'. 
SYKES Yeah, that's it.  Say it slow. 
Jetson pronounces the words and Sykes follows along haltingly.  After several tries, he can say it passably well. 
INT.  ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT 
An upscale, mostly yuppie-human dance club.  The antithesis of the "X" bar.  A human HOSTESS in a slit dress has just finished seating Sykes and Jetson at a table.  She moves off.  The two cops look up at the stage. 
REVERSE ANGLE 
revealing the exotic alien dancer named CASSANDRA.  She moves with a feline blend of strength and grace.  Framing her face is a silvery nylon wig that she tosses like a mane as she undulates to the MUSIC. 
Sykes watches with fascination.  The MUSIC ends and Cassandra steps down from the stage, to be replaced by a human DANCER as the next SONG cranks up.  Sykes and Jetson quickly intercept her as she heads backstage. 
JETSON You are Cassandra? 
CASSANDRA That's right. 
JETSON We are with the Police Department. This is Sergeant Sykes, and I am-- 
CASSANDRA (laughing) Ss'ai k'ss?  Perfect. 
SYKES We're looking for your boss -- Strader. 
She eyes the two of them warily, then moves backstage, assuming they will follow. 
INT.  BACKSTAGE - NIGHT 
She moves along the narrow corridor. 
CASSANDRA He's not here.  Why ask me? 
JETSON The young woman at the front said you might know where he is. 
CASSANDRA She did, did she?  Well, she was wrong.  Excuse me, I have to change. 
SYKES No problem. 
She moves through a door.  Sykes follows closely so does Jetson. 
INT.  ENCOUNTERS - DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT 
Cassandra grabs some clothes and goes into a stall. 
SYKES Look, we're not here doing an interview for the school paper. This is a homicide investigation... and if you don't stop jerkin' us around, I'm ready to start playin' hardball. 
Jetson has waited politely half-in half-out of the room. Sykes rapidly motions to him to "go look around".  Jetson mimes back, "Huh?" 
CASSANDRA (slipping out of her dance costume) Oooh.  Hardball.  That sounds interesting.  Are you going to strike me?  You could tie me up and then do whatever you want with me... I've got my own ropes. 
SYKES (still miming to Jetson) Does that cost extra or you throw them in? 
CASSANDRA You've got me all wrong.  I don't charge money for something that I myself find pleasurable... 
Finally Jetson gets what Sykes is trying to tell him.  He says in the uncertain, stagy voice of a bad liar: 
JETSON I am going out to the car.  I will meet you there. 
Sykes rolls his eyes as Jetson exits into the corridor. Cassandra emerges from the stall, wearing a long, stylish, low-cut dress. 
CASSANDRA Look, I don't know where Mr. Strader might be.  He comes and he goes. 
SYKES (starting to feel a little uncomfortable) The girl out front mentioned Strader's assistant, somebody named Watson.  Maybe he knows. 
CASSANDRA (tensing slightly) Todd?  Todd doesn't know either. 
She is very close to Sykes now.  She fingers the lapel of his jacket. 
The assailant does.  He looks at Sykes, scared, breathing hard.  He's a Newcomer in a snappy Armani suit.  This is TODD WATSON.  Jetson, on the floor, starts to rise. 
Suddenly somebody flies at Sykes from the side, knocking him sideways down the corridor.  It's Cassandra.  Watson seizes the moment and shoves the off-balance Jetson into some furniture and dives for the door. 
INT.  SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
Watson runs down the corridor, ducking onto a fire escape. Meanwhile Sykes wrestles with Cassandra.  She's as strong as he is, but he has the edge in experience. 
Jetson, disheveled, appears in the private office doorway, ready to chase Watson, but not knowing which way he went. 
SYKES (struggling with Cassandra) Fire escape!  End of the hall! 
Jetson nods, takes off down the corridor.  Sykes manges to get one handcuff on Cassandra's wrist, the other cuff around a pipe sticking out of the wall.  She SCREECHES at him in the alien language as he collects the Casull and charges down the corridor. 
EXT.  FIRE ESCAPE - OUTSIDE ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT 
Jetson pounds down the fire escape.  Below him, he sees Watson reach the ground and take off running for the parking area. 
Jetson reaches the ground and gives chase. 
EXT.  ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
Watson zig-zags through the parked cars, Jetson cutting down other rows trying to make up the distance between them. 
EXT.  FIRE ESCAPE - OUTSIDE ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT 
Sykes bangs down the fire escape, leaping the last fifteen feet to the ground. 
EXT.  ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
Watson reaches his Alfa Romeo, yanks open the door, fires it up.  Jetson slides up, ten feet behind the car, pulls his gun, aims. 
The white reverse-lights flash on.  Jetson stands there, gun aimed -- but he hesitates to shoot.  In that split second hesitation, Watson floors it... Jetson jumping to avoid being hit. 
INT.  ALFA ROMEO - NIGHT 
Watson throws the car into Drive, looks up, and sees Sykes standing right in front of the car.  He hits the gas. Sykes has no choice then to leap onto the hood of the car. Watson, with Sykes' face on the other side of the glass, panics and-- 
EXT.  ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
-- plows the Alfa into some parked cars. 
Sykes is up in a flash -- yanks Watson out of the car. 
Watson rears back to swing at Sykes, when Sykes swings his arms around in two wide arcs, his fists landing two direct hits in the nerve centers under Watson's arms.  Watson folds over with a "ooowwph" sound and drops to his knees. 
SYKES (breathing hard) I'll be damned.  It worked. (sees Jetson run up) How'd you like that, huh?  Whammo! Both barrels.  Dropped him like a bag of cement. 
Jetson picks up Watson's fallen wallet.  He looks at the I.D. 
SYKES Who is he? 
JETSON Todd Watson.  The assistant manager. 
Watson is still doubled over, just trying to draw one agonized breath. 
WATSON I don't believe this.  Look at my suit.  Look at what you made me do to my car. 
SYKES (laughing) Your girlfriend put up a better fight than you did, pal. 
JETSON We are looking for your employer, Joshua Strader. 
WATSON He's out of town. 
JETSON Why did you run? 
WATSON Because you two were chasing me. 
SYKES We were chasing you because you ran, you dumb son-of-a-bitch. 
JETSON When will Strader return? 
Quint and the Thugs free Watson from the bumper.  He bucks and lunges as they drag him toward the surf.  Quint addresses one of the Thugs, a new guy. 
QUINT You never seen this before, have you, Billy?  oh, man, you ain't gonna believe it... seawater is like battery acid to these guys... I don't know what it is, some kinds chemical reaction.  Whatta you think it is, Watson?  Whoa, hold him. (a wave breaks outside, the foam rolls in) What I love about the surf is you can never tell how far up it's going to come until it... whoops, got a little wet there. 
The wave just sloshes over Watson's lower legs.  He screams.  Flailing, one of his hands dips below the surface of the water.  He howls and yanks out his hand. We see the alien hand dripping seawater... then a thousand droplets of purple alien blood begin to bead all over the hand.  The Thugs get Watson swinging. 
QUINT Last call, sucker.  One... two... THREE! 
Watson is flung into the surf. 
ANGLE 
Harcourt and Kipling have walked down almost to the waterline.  We HEAR Watson's GURGLES and SCREAMS... then nothing.  Kipling is very nervous this close to the water. Harcourt seems unperturbed. 
KIPLING When we picked him up, he was talking to those two cops -- the two who came to question you about Hubley. 
HARCOURT This is getting out of hand.  I want you to deal with it.  Immediately. 
A wave rushes up the sand.  Kipling quickly steps back. Harcourt stands firm, staring it down, and the foam stops six inches from his dress shoes. 
HARCOURT (continuing) We must learn to embrace the things we fear... and from that grow strong. 
A moment, then he turns and starts back toward the limo. He motions to Strader's body and the surf.  The Thugs grab the body and heave it into the waves. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  SYKES' APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Jetson is talking rapidly in the alien language on the kitchen wall phone.  Sykes, foreground, takes the bottle of vodka from the refrigerator, throws some ice in a glass, pours himself a shot.  As Jetson is talking, he spots the carton of milk that Sykes inadvertently left out of the refrigerator two nights ago. 
He sniffs it... his eyebrows do an involuntary movement. He finishes with his wife and hangs up.  He watches Sykes take a long pull on the vodka. 
JETSON (holds up milk carton) Would you mind? 
Sykes shrugs, tosses him a glass.  Jetson pours the semi- lumpy milk and takes a big swallow.  Sykes grimaces. Then-- 
SYKES (indicates phone) So, she keeps you on a pretty short leash, does she? 
JETSON My wife?  She worries about me. 
Sykes leans against the counter, getting comfortable, his voice more weary then bitter. 
SYKES Yeah... I know the routine. 
JETSON You are married? 
SYKES Was.  Divorced. 
JETSON We mate for life.  Divorce... is a strange concept to us. 
SYKES It's like having an eleventh finger removed.  It hurts like hell, but you never really needed the damn thing in the first place. 
Jetson nods -- even though he doesn't really understand this.  They drink... Jetson gazes around. 
JETSON Your home is quite disordered.  I thought perhaps you had been burglarized when I walked in. 
SYKES (growling) I appreciate your honesty, George. 
He smacks his glass against Jetson's.  They drink. 
INT.  SYKES' APARTMENT - LATER 
Sykes has his wallet out... showing Jetson a dog-eared photo. 
SYKES Ignore the bitch on the left, that's Edie.  I call her Edi Amin... This is Kristin, my daughter.  It's kinda an old picture... she's twenty now. Getting married, in fact... on Sunday. 
Jetson sitting across the table from Sykes, looks at the proffered photo.  They're both a little drunk now. 
JETSON Human children can be very beautiful. (then) Getting married?  Congratulations. You will be taking Sunday off, then... 
SYKES (uneasy) Maybe not... I don't know.  I'm not sure I'm gonna go. (mumbles) She doesn't need her burn-out of a father there... 
He's wiping the "E.T. P.D."  from the door as Jetson approaches from the edge of the bluff.  Fedorchuk pulls up alongside in his n.d. sedan.  He calls off to Jetson, who is still twenty yards away. 
FEDORCHUK Well, if it isn't Detective Jetson. Forget you hip waders, big guy? 
SYKES Lay off, asshole. 
FEDORCHUK I may be an asshole, but at least I'm a real detective, not some outer shit space thing. 
Sykes, his face neutral, which we should by now know to be highly dangerous, saunters to Fedorchuk's car and leans against it. 
SYKES Yeah?  you're a real honest-to-god detective...? 
Sykes grabs the back of Fedorchuk's head and slams it into the steering wheel, BAM-HONK!, and in doing so, has hurt his hand again (the hand he hit Jetson with). 
He shakes that hand while lunging in and grabbing Fedorchuk's car keys with the other. 
SYKES (continuing) Then detect these! 
Fedorchuk, holding his bloody nose, watches as his car keys sail out in an arc out over the bluff.  Jetson, just climbing into the slug-mobile, witnesses the last of this scene without knowing how it began. 
INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - DUSK 
Sykes gets in, slams the door.  His hand hurts as he grabs the wheel.  He holds the wheel gingerly as he slams the car into gear and hurls gravel up the road toward P.C.H. Jetson looks over, curious. 
JETSON What was that about? 
SYKES (embarrassed that he defended Jetson) Nothing. 
On Jetson's confused expression, we-- 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  BURGER STAND - NIGHT 
A different burger stand.  Sykes and Jetson sit across from each other at one of the outdoor tables... Sykes with his greasy burger, Jetson with his mole strips.  This time they have no trouble eating in front of each other as they talk. 
SYKES ... So we've got three guys dead. All Newcomers, all killed the same way -- execution style. 
JETSON Warren Hubley was in middle management at a refinery... Joshua Strader operated a successful bar and nightclub... 
SYKES ... and Porter ran a piece of shit mom-and-pop mini-mart. (beat) So what the hell's the connection? 
CUT TO: 
INT.  PATHOLOGY LAB OFFICE - NIGHT 
Sykes and Jetson enter the cluttered lab office.  Winter is here eating take-out chicken at his cluttered desk. 
SYKES You guys finished the postmortem on Strader yet? 
WINTER (his mouth full) You mean the Blob?  They're finishing up now. 
JETSON Is Bentner here?  I must speak with him. 
WINTER He went home early -- his kid was sick. 
Jetson frowns. 
WINTER (continuing) Yeah, but he left something for you. 
He wipes his greasy fingers on a napkin, then finds an envelope on the desk and hands it to Jetson.  Jetson tears open the sealed envelope.  The message inside is written in the alien language. 
WINTER (continuing) Does this have something to do with the test he ran that he wouldn't tell me about? 
CLOSE ON - JETSON 
His expression grows stricken as he reads the message. 
BACK TO SCENE 
SYKES (getting very curious and suspicious now) What kind of test? 
SYKES George?  How about you drive... 
Jetson looks over at him... gently reacting to this vote of confidence.  They walk quickly around to the opposite doors, climb in. 
INT.  CORRIDOR - BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS - NIGHT 
Sykes and Jetson move down this government-building corridor. 
SYKES There's gotta be some other connection. 
They enter a door marked BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS. 
INT.  BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS - NIGHT 
HIGH SHOT showing the maze of partitioned cubicles filling this huge room.  It's all but deserted.  Sykes and Jetson are off to one side with a heavyset woman (human) COMPUTER OPERATOR, who they're shanghaied into helping them after hours. 
CLOSER - AT COMPUTER OPERATOR'S DESK 
She sits at her computer terminal.  Sykes and Jetson stand behind her as she types in commands and information. 
She types: Hubley, Warren.  The computer screen flashes past various information, then settles on a screen full of information of HUBLEY, WARREN. 
OPERATOR Here's Hubley. (scanning it) Left Quarantine on November thirtieth, relocated first to Riverside, then moved to Los Angeles early in February the following year.  Field of expertise: chemical manufacturing.  Looks like he passed up several other better paying jobs waiting for that one at the refinery. 
SYKES Try Joshua Strader, will ya, darlin'? 
OPERATOR For you, anything. 
The Operator punches up STRADER, JOSHUA.  The screen fills with information. 
OPERATOR (continuing, reading from screen) Released on November twenty-ninth. Came immediately to L.A.  Ten weeks after arriving he took over the abandoned club which is now Encounters. 
JETSON (to Operator) Now the store owner, please.  Cecil Porter. 
She types it in. 
OPERATOR Released December one.  He and his wife moved first to Modesto, then Coalinga, California -- wherever that is -- settled in L.A. in April.  Field of expertise: organic chemical engineering.  He and his wife have one child, a son. 
SYKES Yeah -- we met him.  Wonderful boy... close personal friend of George's here. 
OPERATOR I'm sorry, Matt.  Nothing here seems to be matching up... 
But Sykes wasn't listening.  He's starting off... an idea forming.  He stands there a moment, considering it, his face looking like he's chewing something sour.  It's so off-the-wall it takes a moment for him to assimilate it. Then-- 
SYKES Holy shit... (to Jetson) Look what we're staring at: three Newcomers with nothing in common, right?  What if it's just one other guy who killed these three? (Jetson looks at him blankly) Three and one make four.  Four Newcomers... of totally different backgrounds... (Jetson still doesn't get it) You and the store owner's son -- that punker! 
Suddenly the realization hits Jetson, too.  He looks at Sykes. 
JETSON ... Quarantine. 
Sykes spins to the Operator, excited. 
SYKES Can you dig up their Quarantine records in this thing? 
OPERATOR Sure.  Just a minute. 
She moves up a screen to the top of Porter's information. 
OPERATOR (to herself) Porter was in Lodge seven seven two. 
She rapidly types in additional information.  The screen shifts as she jumps files.  Finally she gets a line that reads: ENTER LODGE NUMBER: She types: 7-7-2. 
Sykes and Jetson lean in as the screen goes blank... then information flashes past as the computer searches... then, finally: Occupants, Quarantine Lodge 772: HUBLEY, WARREN......... STRADER, JOSHUA......... 
Sykes and Jetson react -- their hunch is coming true. 
On the computer screen: .........PORTER, CECIL......... 
Sykes and Jetson, their faces bathed in the green kick of the screen, stare without blinking, waiting for that forth name. 
On the computer screen: .........HARCOURT, WILLIAM. 
Finally he reaches a stainless steel tub... he runs a long finger along the inside, comes up with some residue of the drug.  It glistens blue on his finger.  It holds him mesmerized for several moments... his expression that of a former junkie beholding the stuff he used to covet so. 
SYKES (tentatively stepping closer) Is that it...? 
A beat, than Jetson explodes -- he sweeps a rack of equipment off the worktable, savagely wipes the drug from his hand onto O'Neal's shirt-front as he slams and pins the bug-eyed O'Neal to the wall. 
SYKES Uh, George... 
JETSON (in O'Neal's face) Where is the drug?  Where have they taken it? 
O'NEAL (choking) What drug?  This is an oil refinery, you... 
JETSON (pushing harder) WHERE?! 
O'NEAL (unable to breathe) You... can't do... this! 
SYKES George, uh... you're gonna break his little chest bones... 
JETSON Stay out of this, Matthew. (to O'Neal) Tell me where the drug has been taken or I will crush your lungs against this wall. 
O'Neal is experiencing real fear now.  Sykes has decided to back Jetson up, for better or worse.  He takes the "good cop" role. 
SYKES Don't piss him off, O'Neal.  When he gets like this, I can't control him. I've seen this before.  He got like this once -- I saw him jerk a guy's spine out and show it to him. Nothing I could do.  I hadda go throw up. 
O'NEAL (at length, with great effort) ... They took the stuff out, all of it -- this afternoon. 
JETSON How much? 
O'NEAL About fifty kilos... of concentrate... and some street grade... in tubes. 
Jetson reacts to this... then increases the pressure. O'Neal is really in bad trouble now.  Even Sykes takes a half-step forward -- thinking Jetson might actually crush this man. 
JETSON Where have they taken it? 
O'NEAL Encount... Encounters Club. 
Finally, Jetson eases off.  O'Neal slumps to the floor, gasping for air. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  REFINERY - NIGHT 
This time Jetson is the Juggernaut... his expression set and hard... as he strides to the car.  Sykes practically has to run to keep up. 
SYKES George, c'mon -- lighten up.  It's a beauty of a case.  Don't sweat it -- we got him by the short hairs. He ain't gonna make any more of the shit. 
JETSON The fifty kilos, Matthew.  I have to find it.  I can't let it get out on the street. 
SYKES Why?  What's the big goddamn deal? 
Jetson has reached the driver's door of the slug-mobile, yanks it open. 
SYKES (continuing; as Jetson starts the car You destroy that drug, you destroy the case.  Don't blow the whole thing now by not following procedure. 
JETSON (through the open driver's window) Fuck procedure. 
And to Sykes' shock, he throws the car in gear and peels out. 
SYKES Hey!! 
Jetson accelerates toward the security gate.  The guard in the shack starts yelling and runs out as the slug-mobile bashes through the barricade bar. 
SYKES GEORGE!  GODDAMMIT!! 
Sykes stands there like a moron -- with no partner, no car.  A pickup truck carrying a Worker just getting off his shift starts ambling past.  Sykes runs in front of it, waving his badge.  The pickup skids to a stop. 
SYKES Police.  Get out.  I need this thing.  Out, now! 
The poor guy bails out and Sykes jumps in, jamming it into gear.  The truck has seen better days... it doesn't have much power to give as Sykes floors it toward the exit. 
CUT TO: 
Sykes keeps one hand on the wheel and draws the Casull with the other.  He brings it up and around right in front of Jetson's nose, pointing it through the passenger window at Kipling. 
At that moment, Kipling glances over and reacts to the bore of this huge gun staring him in the kisser. 
Jetson reacts to the gun in his face... then reacts to something else he sees beyond it. 
JETSON Green light, Matthew. (Sykes doesn't respond) Green light! 
Now Sykes looks.  The light at the intersection has just turned green -- and the rows of the cars that were waiting start coming.  It's a wall of headlights coming right for the slug-mobile. 
SYKES Shit! 
JETSON Ss-ai! 
EXT.  WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT 
Sykes locks up the brakes.  Kipling veers around a couple of cars and speeds away. 
Because of the other traffic, Sykes has only one course of action.  He skids a left onto a side street. 
EXT.  SIDE STREET - NIGHT 
Sykes burns rubber down this quieter street, squeals a right onto another street that parallels the street the police unit is on.  At the first street available, he cuts back in behind the police unit. 
EXT.  FIRST STREET OVERPASS - NIGHT 
Sykes' car tears along below the overpass -- with the police unit directly above them!  An on-ramp approaches for the slug-mobile and Sykes floors it. 
INT.  BLACK-AND-WHITE - NIGHT 
Harcourt turns in his seat just in time to see the slug- mobile airborne as it flies from the on-ramp, landing a few feet behind the black-and-white's bumper. 
EXT.  FIRST STREET OVERPASS - NIGHT 
With the slug-mobile now, the police unit hangs a right, cuts through a parking lot, and bounces onto-- 
EXT.  SECOND STREET AND TUNNEL - NIGHT 
The police unit hangs a u-turn into the Second Street tunnel.  It clips one of the civilian cars, causing a pile-up of traffic behind the police unit. 
The slug-mobile skids to a stop, blocked by the clog of traffic in the tunnel.  Sykes is out of the drivers door in a flash, stand on the door frame, and yells-- 
SYKES Move your goddamned cars! 
People climb out of their cars dazed and bewildered -- ignoring Sykes.  Sykes slides behind the wheel, bangs his bumper into the car in front of him, and pushes the car far enough forward to get around.  He speeds off. 
INT./ EXT.  BLACK-AND-WHITE - FREEWAY - NIGHT 
Kipling rockets up a freeway on-ramp.  Harcourt smiles with satisfaction -- there's no sign of the slug-mobile behind them.  Kipling eases off, blends into the flow of traffic. 
EXT.  FREEWAY - NIGHT 
Sykes slaloms the slug-mobile through the civilian traffic like Mario Andretti lapping the pack at Indianapolis. 
INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT 
Jetson spots the police unit in the right hand lane ahead. 
JETSON There! 
Sykes sees it.  Thinking fast, he eases off, using another car as a blind.  He waits until the police unit is parallel to an off-ramp, then guns ahead and swings right, directly for the police unit. 
Kipling looks over, reacts, just as the slug-mobile broadsides the police unit.  Sykes forces the police unit up the off-ramp. 
EXT.  INTERSECTION - NIGHT 
Door handle to door handle, the two cars slue to the right.  The police unit breaks out in front, but Sykes stays right on its ass.  They charge up onto-- 
EXT.  VINCENT THOMAS BRIDGE - NIGHT 
The police unit and slug-mobile -- bumper to bumper at 80 MPH. 
Sykes, stunned at what he's just witnessed slowly goes to him and takes his pulse the way he saw Jetson do it. 
HIGH ANGLE SHOT - THE ENTIRE AREA 
Sykes stands.  He notices the suitcase nearby, latches it, and hefts it.  He carries it with him back toward the inferno of the wrecked cars, the Casull hanging heavy and cold in his hand. 
ANGLE FOLLOWING SYKES 
He approaches the burning cars, heading for Jetson.  As he passes the burning cars, we have a half-second to register that the driver's door of the police unit is now open before-- 
-- a dark figure hurtles at Sykes' back from O.S.!  Sykes is thrown forward.  The suitcase crashes to the ground, and the Casull goes skittering off.  Sykes looks up -- to be met by the singed and bleeding nightmare visage of Kipling!  Kipling reaches down for the suitcase then Sykes hears it -- the telltale CLINKING SOUND.  He looks -- and sees the exotic silver bracelet on Kipling's wrist.  It connects for him; this is the bandana alien -- the one who killed Bill Tuggle! 
Kipling brings the suitcase above his head.  He is a half- second from hurling it down on Sykes' skull when -- a GUN ROARS.  Kipling is thrown back by the chest wound.  Sykes looks. 
ANGLE 
Jetson, half sitting up, holds the smoking Casull. 
Kipling recovers enough to come at Sykes again with the suitcase again.  Jetson, shaking but determined, fires again, and again, and again. 
Kipling is driven backward by the fusillade, the suitcase still over his head... until he is blasted at last and forever, suitcase and all, into the molten core of the inferno. 
Sykes rises, makes his way to Jetson's side.  Jetson has let the weight of the gun carry his hand to the ground. Sykes kneels beside him, gently taking the gun from the alien's hand.  The two partners remain like this, bathed in the orange flickering glow of the fire. 
HIGH WIDE SHOT 
of the drawbridge, the debris, the carnage, and our two cops... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT.  HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHT 
The police mop-up is winding down.  Cop cars, coroner's wagons, fire trucks.  We MOVE through it all to find Sykes and Jetson seated on the curb, away from the railing. 
JETSON With Harcourt and Kipling dead, I assume you will be requesting reassignment now. 
SYKES (cool) It'd be for your own good.  I think you'd be better off with a partner who's a little more... by the book. (smiles) ... Still, I gotta tell you, George, for a quiet guy, you're sure hell on wheels once you get going.  I'd kinda hate to miss your next two days as a detective. 
Jetson smiles.  He glances up as they are bathed in red and blue light.  A patrol car has pulled up next to them. Inside is Wiltey, a uniformed cop. 
WILTEY I'll give you guys a lift to the station.  They're waiting to take your statements on the shootings. 
SYKES (to Jetson) Let's go, partner. (then casually correcting Wiltey as he rises) And it's shooting.  Singular. 
WILTEY They said two. 
SYKES Nope.  I didn't shoot Harcourt... he o.d.'d. 
SHOCK CUT - JETSON 
We rapidly PUSH IN ON HIM as his head snaps around toward Sykes.  His expression tells us his blood has just turned to ice. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  CORONER'S WAGON - NIGHT 
ANGLE FORWARD, shooting from the rear of the wagon, toward the DRIVER and ATTENDANT up front. 
DRIVER So it's just me and her left in the hot tub, right? 
ATTENDANT You and the blonde? 
DRIVER No, man, the redhead.  The blonde's gone in the house with some other guy.  But a few minutes later she comes back out, alone, when me and the redhead are going at it fast and furious in the tub, ya know... and she sees us, and... she climbs right in with us... 
ATTENDANT You're full of shit! 
DRIVER I swear it!  If I'm lyin', I'm dyin'... 
And, without warning, A LARGE INHUMAN HAND FLIES UP IN F.G., having ripped through the sealed body bag just below FRAME. 
CUT TO: 
SYKES Why the hell are you so dead set against back-up? 
JETSON (a difficult admission) Because... because of what will happen if humans see what we are capable of becoming. 
SYKES But there's no more drug. 
JETSON You understand that.  But how many others will? 
Sykes looks across at Jetson's troubled expression. 
Just then, Wiltey spots a flit of movement cutting across his headlight beams fifty yards ahead.  Whatever it was, was large and fast.  It darted into an open warehouse door. 
WILTEY There he is! 
And Wiltey floors it.  Sykes and Jetson watch, unable to stop him. 
JETSON Wiltey! 
He and Sykes take off running.  Wiltey skids to the left, rockets in through the open warehouse door, out of sight. Sykes and Jetson pour it on.  They hear a SCREECH OF BRAKES.  They reach the warehouse door and race through. 
INT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
LOW ANGLE, SHOOTING ACROSS the underside of Wiltey's stopped patrol car as Sykes' and Jetson's feet appear around the corner of the warehouse door.  The car is still running -- the exhaust pipe still RUMBLING and expelling fumes.  The feet slow... then cautiously start around the car.  We PAN with them as they move around the side of the car.  A dark liquid begins dripping in EXTREME F.G.  We MOVE UP, to a CLOSE UP of the car bumper.  The dark liquid is blood, dripping deep red on the shiny chrome.  We MOVE UP farther, and-- 
-- there is Wiltey's severed head.  IN CLOSE UP, resting on the hood of the patrol car. 
Sykes and Jetson stop dead at the sight.  Wiltey's body lies in a heap on the floor near the car.  They both stare, then Sykes looks around the shadowy interior of the warehouse, his expression saying: what the hell could have done this so fast? 
THEIR POV 
There are two paths to go.  Both dark and scary as hell. The sound of a distant FOG HORN blends with the CREAKS and DRIPS of this waterfront building. 
ANGLE - SYKES AND JETSON 
Jetson reaches into the patrol car and pulls the shotgun from the dash mount.  He checks the chamber as Sykes checks the Casull. 
They exchange a knowing look... then wordlessly, they split up.  Sykes takes the path to the left, Jetson to the right. 
WITH JETSON 
As he moves into a dark area.  He slowly picks his way along a long wall, having to step over all sorts of piled debris, heading toward us.  We PAN slightly to the left to HOLD a door in CLOSE UP.  The door, already ajar, eases open slightly wider.  Jetson hears this.  He reaches the door, sets himself, then spins and kicks the door open all the way.  There's nothing inside... now. 
Jetson looks up, sees movement in the distance.  It is Sykes, quite far away, in another section of the warehouse.  Sykes leaves Jetson's field of view. 
INT.  WAREHOUSE - GUARD'S AREA - NIGHT 
Sykes walks around a corner -- freezes, and cocks his head as he hears VOICES -- followed, curiously, by LAUGHTER. He eases forward, peers around a bend, and sees -- a table and a chair.  On the table is a mini-television, tuned to some local late night talk show.  There's a thermos, a steaming cup of coffee, and a Twinkie with a single bite out of it beside the TV.  The chair is empty, except for a jacket slung across the back, the word SECURITY stitched on the breast.  The guard is nowhere in sight. 
Sykes moves toward the table, taking in this eerie sight. He looks around, then continues on. 
INT.  WAREHOUSE - APPROACHING STAIRS - NIGHT 
Jetson moves among the dark nooks and crannies, comes to a set of stairs leading to an upper floor.  The top of the stairs is pitch black.  Jetson adjusts his grip on the shotgun, slowly starts up the stairs. 
INT.  WAREHOUSE - AT FISH NETS - NIGHT 
Sykes comes to rack upon rack of drying fish nets, hanging from the ceiling.  He has no alternate route -- he begins pushing through them. 
SYKES' POV - MOVING THROUGH FISH NETS 
Because of the dimness, he can't see much beyond each rack of nets immediately before him.  He keeps wading through -- it's like a house of mirrors, he can't tell now much farther he has to go to get out of the nets, and the deeper in he gets, the harder it would be to go back the way he came.  He pushes past one particular rack of nets and looming out of the darkness ahead of him is-- 
-- a terrifying face! 
ON SYKES 
He stumbles back, gets tangled in the nets, brings up the Casull, is about to fire when... he sees what the face is. It's the maiden's figurehead from the bow of an old ship. The wood is worm-eaten and decayed, creating a hideous visage.  Sykes stands there a moment, trying to jump-start his heart again. 
INT.  SECOND FLOOR LANDING - NIGHT 
Jetson moves along the rickety planks.  He comes to a door.  He eases it open, enters. 
EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT 
Sykes sees the phantom figure land on the boat near the cabin.  The fishing boat chugs up the channel toward the open sea. 
EXT.  DOCKS - NIGHT 
Jetson sees this and is shitting bricks.  Suddenly the stark BEAM of a police helicopter sun-gun stabs down from above.  Jetson looks up to see the chopper coming in low, the sun-gun washing over the docks. 
INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT 
The sun-gun hits Jetson standing on the dock, frantically waving his badge at the 'copter, signaling it down.  The Pilot starts to take it down. 
EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT 
Sykes is on all fours, clawing his way up the fishing net toward the back of the boat.  Harcourt gets one hand on his leg.  Sykes jerks his leg away, and Harcourt's claws dig deep through Sykes' pants into his legs as he pulls away.  Sykes BELLOWS in pain. 
INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT 
Jetson is barely in the seat as it lifts away from the dock.  He has to catch himself from falling out the open door.  Below, uniformed cops are now seen rushing out onto the dock. 
JETSON On that boat -- out there! 
Jetson indicates the fishing boat headed toward the mouth of the channel.  The helicopter tilts forward and goes. 
EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT 
Sykes manages to pull himself up into the dinghy hanging over the stern of the fishing boat.  He pushes to the back of the dinghy as Harcourt's savage visage appears at the bow.  Harcourt grins -- the predator with his prey trapped. 
INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT 
Jetson's face is bathed in sweat as he looks out at the channel water racing past beneath.  They come up on the boat and the Pilot plays the sun-gun onto the deck, looking for movement, finally pinning Sykes and Harcourt at the stern dinghy. 
EXT.  BRIDGE OF FISHING BOAT - NIGHT 
The Captain reacts to the helicopter overhead, looks back at what the sun-gun spotlights.  He sees Harcourt standing at the bow of the dinghy, starting to clamber in. 
CAPTAIN Hey! 
EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT 
Harcourt turns, sees the Captain on the bridge above him. He reaches for a wood-handled gaff nearby.  He rears back with it and lets it fly like a spear. 
EXT.  BRIDGE OF FISHING BOAT - NIGHT 
The gaff impales the Captain, off-center in his chest. The Captain, his face frozen in shock, is thrown back against the throttle.  The boat lunges forward as the engines REV loudly. 
EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT 
Harcourt is thrown into the dinghy with Sykes.  As Harcourt recovers, Sykes spots the release for the tie line on the dinghy.  He lunges forward, throwing the ratchet.  The line plays out, and the dinghy slides backward into water! 
INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT 
Jetson watches this happen. 
EXT.  DINGHY - NIGHT 
The dinghy bangs along (at the end of the ten foot tie line) in the wake of the speeding fishing boat. 
Harcourt claws his way toward Sykes.  Water is already splashing in over the stern transom... the dinghy is sinking.  Harcourt grabs Sykes' leg and pulls him toward him.  Sykes holds on to the stern cleats with all his might.  Harcourt yanks him free.  Sykes kicks wildly at the ratchet release, trying to free the remainder of the line.  Harcourt is coming in for the kill when-- 
-- Sykes' foot connects with the ratchet lever.  The rest of the tie line snakes through the ratchet, freeing the dinghy from the fishing boat! 
The dinghy is rocking wildly, sinking fast.  A wave from the fishing boat's wake splashes in over the side.  Some of it hits Harcourt -- he HOWLS and falls away.  Sykes sees this, tries to clamber over the side, but Harcourt is on him again.  Sykes' body weight at the side of the dinghy coupled with the rocking motion cause more water to wash in over the transom. 
INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT 
Jetson reacts to Sykes and Harcourt battling in the dinghy below. 
EXT.  DINGHY - NIGHT 
Harcourt, who is getting more and more wet, HOWLS in agony, thick blood beginning to bead wherever the water touches.  Sykes is taking one hell of a beating.  Harcourt sweeps Sykes up in a bear hug, is about to crush his rib cage, when Sykes shifts his body weight, knocking Harcourt off balance.  Harcourt wobbles, fear on his face for the first time -- then he finally loses it, and the two of them tumble overboard into the water, capsizing the dinghy. 
