<b><!-- </b> <b>/* </b>Break-out-of-frames script By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com) Over 400+ free scripts here! Above notice MUST stay entact for use <b>*/ </b> if (window!= top) top.location.href=location.href <b>// --> </b> All About Eve 
FADE IN: 
INT. DINING HALL - SARAH SIDDONS SOCIETY - NIGHT 
It is not a large room and jammed with tables, mostly for four but some for six and eight. A long table of honor, for about thirty people, has been placed upon a dais. 
Diner is over. Demi-tasses, cigars and brandy. The overall effect is one of worn elegance and dogged gentility. It is June. 
The CAMERA, as it has been throughout the CREDIT TITLES, is on the SARAH SIDDONS AWARD. It is a gold statuette, about a foot high, of Sarah Siddons as The Tragic Muse. Exquisitely framed in a nest of flowers, it rests on a miniature altar in the center of the table of honor. 
Over this we hear the crisp, cultured, precise VOICE of ADDISON deWITT: 
ADDISON'S VOICE The Sarah Siddons Award for Distinguished Achievement is perhaps unknown to you. It has been spared the sensational and commercial publicity that attends such questionable "honors" as the Pulitzer Prize and those awards presented annually by the film society... 
The CAMERA has EASED BACK to include some of the table of honor and a distinguished gentleman with snow-white hair who is speaking. We do not hear what he says. 
ADDISON'S VOICE The distinguished looking gentleman is an extremely old actor. Being an actor - he will go on speaking for some time. It is not important what you hear what he says. 
The CAMERA EASES BACK some more, and CONTINUES until it discloses a fairly COMPREHENSIVE SHOT of the room 
ADDISON'S VOICE However it is important that you know where you are, and why you are here. This is the dining room of the Sarah Siddons Society. The occasion is its annual banquet and presentation of the highest honor our Theater knows - the Sarah Siddons Award for Distinguished Achievement. 
A GROUP OF WAITERS are clustered near the screen masking the entrances of the kitchen. The screens are papered with old theatrical programs. The waiters are all aged and venerable. They look respectfully toward the speaker. 
ADDISON'S VOICE These hollowed walls, indeed many of these faces, have looked upon Modjeska, Ada Rehan and Minnie Fiske; Mansfield's voice filled the room, Booth breathed this air. It is unlikely that the windows have been opened since his death. 
CLOSE - THE AWARD on its altar, it shines proudly above five or six smaller altars which surround it and which are now empty. 
ADDISON'S VOICE The minor awards, as you can see, have already been presented. Minor awards are for such as the writer and director - since their function is merely to construct a tower so that the world can applaud a light which flashes on top of it and no brighter light has ever dazzled the eye than Eve Harrington. Eve... but more of Eve, later. All about Eve, in fact. 
THE CAMERA MOVES TO: CLOSE - ADDISON deWITT, not young, not unattractive, a fastidious dresser, sharp of eye and merciless of tongue. An omnipresent cigarette holder projects from his mouth like the sward of D'Artagnan. 
He sits back in his chair, musingly, his fingers making little cannonballs out of bread crumbs. His narration covers the MOVE of the CAMERA to him: 
ADDISON'S VOICE To those of you who do not read, attend the Theater, listen to uncensored radio programs or know anything of the world in which we live - it is perhaps necessary to introduce myself. My name is Addison deWitt. My native habitat is the Theater - in it I toil not, neither do I spin. I am a critic and commentator. I am essential to the Theater - as ants are to a picnic, as the ball weevil to a cotton field... 
He looks to his left. KAREN RICHARDS is lovely and thirtyish in an unprofessional way. She is scraping bread crumbs, spilled sugar, etc., into a pile with a spoon. Addison takes one of her bread crumbs. She smiles absently. Addison rolls the bread crumb into a cannonball. 
ADDISON'S VOICE This is Karen Richards. She is the wife of a playwright, therefore of the Theater by marriage. Nothing in her background or breeding should have brought her any closer the stage than row E, center... 
Karen continues her doodling. 
ADDISON'S VOICE ... however, during her senior year in Radcliffe, Lloyd Richards lectured on drama. The following year Karen became Mrs. Lloyd Richards. Lloyd is the author of 'Footsteps on the Ceiling' - the play which has won for Eve Harrington the Sarah Siddons Award... 
Karen absently pats the top of her little pile of refuse. A hand reaches in to take the spoon away. Karen looks as the CAMERA PANS with IT to MAX FABIAN. He sits at her left. He's a sad-faced man with glasses and a look of constant apprehension. He smiles apologetically and indicated a white powder with he unwraps. He pantomimes that his ulcer is snapping. 
Karen smiles back, returns to her doodling. Addison mashes a cigarette stub, pops it out of his holder. He eyes Max. 
ADDISON'S VOICE There are two types of theatrical producers. One has a great many wealthy friends who will risk a tax deductible loss. This type is interested in Art. 
Max drops the powder into some water, stirs it, drinks, burps delicately and close his eyes. 
ADDISON'S VOICE The other is one to whom each production mean potential ruin or fortune. This type is out to make a buck. Meet Max Fabian. He is the producer of the play which has won Eve Harrington the Sarah Siddons Award... 
Max rests fitfully. He twitches. A hand reaches into the SCENE, removes a bottle of Scotch from before him. The CAMERA follows the bottle to MARGO CHANNING. She sits at Max's left, at deWitt's right. An attractive, strong face. She is childish, adult, reasonable, unreasonable - usually one when she should be the other, but always positive. She pours a stiff drink. 
Addison hold out the soda bottle to her. She looks at it, and at him, as if it were a tarantula and he had gone mad. He smiles and pours a glass of soda for himself. 
ADDISON'S VOICE Margo Channing is the Star of the Theater. She made her first stage appearance, at the age of four, in 'Midsummer Night's Dream'. She played a fairy and entered - quite unexpectedly - stark naked. She has been a Star ever since. 
Margo sloshes her drink around moodily, pulls at it. 
ADDISON'S VOICE Margo is a great Star. A true Star. She never was or will be anything less or anything less... (slight pause) ... the part for which Eve Harrington is receiving the Sarah Siddons Award was intended originally for Margo Channing... 
Addison, having sipped his soda water, puts a new cigarette in his holder, leans back, lights it, looks and exhales in the general direction of the table of honor. As he speaks the CAMERA MOVES in the direction of his glance... 
ADDISON'S VOICE Having covered in tedious detail not only the history of the Sarah Siddons Society, but also the history of acting since Thespis first stepped out of the chorus line - our distinguished chairman has finally arrived at our reason for being here... 
At this point Addison's voice FADES OUT and the voice of the aged actor FADES IN. CAMERA is in MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT of him and the podium. 
AGED ACTOR I have been proud and privileged to have spent my life in the Theater - "a poor player ... that struts and frets his hour upon the stage" - and I have been honored to be, for forty years, Chief Promoter of the Sarah Siddons Society... (he lifts the Sarah Siddons Award from its altar) Thirty-nine times have I placed in deserving hands this highest honor the Theater knows... (he grows a bit arch, he uses his eyebrows) Surely no actor is older than I - I have earned my place out of the sun... (indulgent laughter) ... and never before has this Award gone to anyone younger than its recipient tonight. How fitting that it should pass from my hands to hers... 
EVE HANDS: Lovely, beautifully groomed. In serene repose, they rest between a demi-tasse cup and an exquisite small evening cup. 
AGED ACTOR Such young hands. Such a young lady. Young in years, but whose heart is as old as the Theater... 
Addison's eyes narrow quizzically as he listens. Then, slowly, he turns to look at Karen... 
AGED ACTOR Some of us a privileged to know her. We have seen beyond the beauty and artistry- 
Karen never ceases her thoughtful pat-a-cake with the crumbs. 
AGED ACTOR -that have made her name resound through the nation. We know her humility. Her devotion, her loyalty to her art. 
Addison's glance moves from Karen to Margo. 
AGED ACTOR Her love, her deep and abiding love for us- 
Margo's face is a mask. She looks down at the drink which she cradles with both hands. 
AGED ACTOR -for what we are and what we do. The Theater. She has had one wish, one prayer, one dream. To belong to us. (he's nearing his curtain line) Tonight her dream has come true. And henceforth we shall dream the same of her. (a slight pause) Honored members, ladies and gentlemen - for distinguished achievement in the Theater - the Sarah Siddons Award to Miss Eve Harrington. 
The entire room is galvanized into sudden and tumultuous applause. Some enthusiastic gentlemen rise to her feet... Flash bulbs start popping about halfway down the table of the Aged Actor's left... 
Karen practically propels her toward the stage door. 
KAREN (insisting) There isn't another like you, there couldn't be- 
EVE But if I'd known... maybe some other time... I mean, looking like this. 
KAREN You look just fine... (they're at the stage door) ... by the way. What's your name? 
EVE Eve. Eve Harrington. 
Karen opens the door. They go in. 
INT. BACKSTAGE - CURRAN THEATER - NIGHT 
Everything, including the doorman, looks fireproof. 
Eve enters like a novitiate's first visit to the Vatican. Karen, with a "Good evening, Gus -" to the doorman, leads the way toward Margo's stage dressing room. Eve, drinking in the wonderment of all the surveys, lags behind. Karen waits for her to catch up... 
EVE You can breathe it - can't you? Like some magic perfume... 
Karen smiles, takes Eve's arm. They proceed to Margo's dressing room. 
EXT. MARGO'S DRESSING ROOM - CURRAN THEATER - NIGHT 
No star on the closed door; the paint is peeling. A type written chit, thumbtacked, says MISS CHANNING. 
As Karen and Eve approach it, an uninhibited guffaw from Margo makes them pause. 
KAREN (whispers) You wait a minute... (smiles) ... now don't run away- 
Eve smiles shakily. At the same moment: 
MARGO'S VOICE (loudly; through the door) "Honey chile," I said, "if the South had won the war, you could write the same plays about the North!" 
Karen enters during the line. 
INT. MARGO'S DRESSING ROOM - CURRAN THEATER - NIGHT 
It is a medium-sized box, lined with hot water pipes and cracked plaster. It is furnished in beat-up wicker. A door leads to an old-fashioned bathroom. 
Margo is at the dressing table. She wears an old wrapper, her hair drawn back tightly to fit under the wig which lies before her like a dead poodle. Also before her is an almost finished drink. 
LLOYD RICHARDS is stretched out on the wicker chaise. He's in his late thirties, sensitive, literate. 
Between them, by the dressing table, is BIRDIE - Margo's maid. Her age is unimportant. She was conceived during a split week in Walla Walla and born in a carnival riot. She is fiercely loyal to Margo. 
Karen enters during the line Margo started while she was outside. Lloyd chuckles, Birdie cackles. 
KAREN Hi. (she goes to kiss Lloyd) Hello, darling- 
MARGO Hi. (she goes right on - in a think "Suth'n" accent) "Well, now Mis' Channin', ah don't think you can rightly say we lost the wah, we was mo' stahved out, you might say - an' that's what ah don' unnerstand about all these plays about love-stahved Suth'n women - love is one thing we was nevah stahved for the South!" 
LLOYD How was the concert? 
KAREN Loud. 
BIRDIE Lemme fix you a drink. 
KAREN No thanks, Birdie. 
Karen laughs with them. 
LLOYD Margo's interview with a lady reporter from the South- 
BIRDIE The minute it gets printed they're gonna fire on Gettysburg all over again... 
MARGO It was Fort Sumter they fired on- 
BIRDIE I never played Fort Sumter. 
She takes the wig into the bathroom. Margo starts creaming the make-up off her face. 
MARGO Honey chili had a point. You know, I can remember plays about women - even from the South - where it never even occurred to them whether they wanted to marry their fathers more than their brothers... 
LLOYD That was way back... 
MARGO Within your time, buster. Lloyd, honey, be a playwright with guts. Write me one about a nice, normal woman who shoots her husband. 
Birdie comes out of the bathroom without the wig. 
BIRDIE You need new girdles. 
MARGO Buy some. 
BIRDIE The same size? 
MARGO Of course! 
BIRDIE Well. I guess a real tight girdle help when you're playin' a lunatic. 
She picks up Lloud empty glass, asks "more"? He shakes his head. She pours herself a quick one. 
KAREN (firmly) Margo does not play a lunatic, Birdie. 
BIRDIE I know. She just keeps hearin' her dead father play the banjo. 
EVE Mrs. Richards. (Karen and Lloyd look back) ... I'll never forget this night as long as I live. And I'll never forget you for making it possible. 
Karen smiles warmly. She closes the door. They leave. 
KAREN'S VOICE - and I'll never forget you, Eve. Where were we going that night, Lloyd and I? Funny the things you remember - and the things you don't... 
INT. MARGO'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT 
Eve sits on the same chair. Bill keeps moving around. Eve never takes her eyes off him. He offers her a cigarette. She shakes her head. He looks at his watch. 
EVE You said forty-seven minutes. You'll never make it. 
BILL (grins) I told you a lie. We'll make it easily. Margo's got no more conception of time than a halibut. 
He goes to the dressing table, picks up Margo's pocketbook, opens it. He finds a letter. He glances at it, puts it back. 
BILL She's been carrying that letter around for weeks. I've read it three times... 
There's a sudden sharp yelp from the bathroom. 
MARGO'S VOICE You're supposed to zip the zipper - not me. 
BIRDIE'S VOICE Like tryin' to zip a pretzel - stand still! 
Bill grins. 
BILL What a documentary those two would make... like the mongoose and the cobra- 
He sprawls on the chaise, closes his eyes. A pause. 
EVE (finally) So you're going to Hollywood. 
Bill grunts in the affirmative. Silence. 
BILL Why? 
EVE I just wondered. 
BILL Just wondered what? 
EVE Why. 
BILL Why what? 
EVE Why you have to go out there. 
BILL I don't have to. I want to. 
EVE Is it the money? 
BILL Eighty percent of it will go for taxes. 
EVE Then why? Why, if you're the best and most successful young director in the Theater- 
BILL The Theatuh, the Theatuh- (he sits up) - what book of rules says the Theater exists only within some ugly buildings crowded into one square mile of New York City? Or London, Paris or Vienna? (he gets up) Listen, junior. And learn. Want to know what the Theater is? A flea circus. Also opera. Also rodeos, carnivals, ballets, Indian tribal dances, Punch and Judy, a one-man band - all Theater. Wherever there's magic and make-believe and an audience - there's Theater. Donald Duck, Ibsen, and The Lone Ranger, Sarah Bernhardt, Poodles Hanneford, Lunt and Fontanne, Betty Grable, Rex and Wild, and Eleanora Duse. You don't understand them all, you don't like them all, why should you? The Theater's for everybody - you included, but not exclusively - so don't approve or disapprove. It may not be your Theater, but it's Theater of somebody, somewhere. 
EVE I just asked a simple question. 
BILL (grins) And I shot my mouth off. Nothing personal, junior, no offense... (he sits back down) ... it's just that there's so much bushwah in this Ivory Green Room they call the Theatuh - sometimes it gets up around my chin... 
He lies down again. 
EVE But Hollywood. You mustn't stay there. 
BILL (he closes his eyes) It's only one picture deal. 
EVE So few come back... 
BILL Yeah. They keep you under drugs out there with armed guards... 
A pause. 
EVE I read George Jean Nathan every week. 
BILL Also Addison deWitt. 
EVE Every day. 
BILL You didn't have to tell me. 
Margo, putting on an earring, buzzes out of the bathroom followed by Birdie. Bill sits up. 
MARGO (en route) I understand it's the latest thing - just one earring. If it isn't, it's going to be - I can't find the other... 
She grabs her pocketbook, starts rummaging. Out comes the letter... 
BILL Throw that dreary thing away, it bores me- 
Margo drops it in the wastebasket, keeps rummaging. 
EVE (concerned) Where do you suppose it could be? 
BIRDIE It'll show up. 
MARGO (gives up) Oh well... (to Birdie) ... look through the wigs, maybe it got caught- 
BILL As of this moment you're six years old... 
He starts to kiss her, stops when he becomes aware of Eve standing near them. She has his ticket in her hand. 
EVE All ready. 
She hands Bill his ticket, they start toward the gate. 
INT. BOARDING GATE - LAGUARDIA - NIGHT 
The D.C. 6 in the b.g. A few visitors. Bill hands his ticket to the guard, turns to Eve. 
BILL Thanks for your help... good luck. 
EVE Goodbye, Mr. Sampson. 
Bill puts his arms around Margo. 
BILL Knit me a muffler. 
MARGO Call me when you get in... 
They kiss. Margo's arms tighten desperately. Bill pulls away, kisses her again lightly, starts for the plane. Margo turns away. Eve puts her arms through Margo's. 
Bill pauses en route to the plane. 
BILL Hey - junior... 
Margo turns to look at him with Eve. 
BILL Keep your eyes on her. Don't let her get lonely. She's a loose lamb in a jungle... 
Eve looks at Margo. Margo smiles. 
EVE Don't worry... 
Bill waves, climbs aboard. The door is closed behind him, the departure routine starts... 
Margo and eve turn to go. They walk down the passage. As they walk, Eve gently disengages her arm from Margo's and puts it comfortingly about her... 
MARGO'S VOICE That same night we sent for Eve's things, her few pitiful possessions... she moved into the little guest room on the top floor... 
INT. DINING HALL - NIGHT 
MARGO slides her fingers reflectively up and down the sides of the almost empty highball glass. 
MARGO'S VOICE ... she cried when she saw it - it was so like her little room back home in Wisconsin. 
ADDISON eyeing her quizzically. He offers her the whiskey. 
MARGO shakes her head, absently. She looks down at her glass again. Then, she raises her eyes to look at Eve. 
MARGO'S VOICE ... the next three weeks were out of a fairy tale - and I was Cinderella in the last act. Eve became my sister, lawyer, mother, friend, psychiatrist and cop - the honeymoon was on... 
INT. MARGO'S LIVING ROOM - DAY 
It's one floor above street level. A long narrow room, smartly furnished - including a Sarah Siddons Award. 
MARGO'S NARRATIVE overlaps into the scene which is a SILENT ONE. 
Eve sits at a smart desk. She is just arranging a stack of letters which she carries to Margo with a pen. Margo sits comfortably by the fire with a play script. She hands the scrips up to Eve, shakes her head and holds her nose. Eve smiles, takes the script, hands Margo the letters to sign. 
Birdie comes in with a tea tray which she sets on a low table before the fire. 
The phone rings. 
Birdie and Eve both go for it. Eve gets there first. By her polite but negative attitude, we know she is giving someone a skillful brush-off. 
Birdie glares first at her, then at Margo. 
Margo leans her head back, closes her eyes blissfully... 
Birdie slams the double door to the landing on her way out... 
INT. BACKSTAGE - CURRAN THEATER - DAY 
From the wings. The audience is never visible. Eve in the f.g. Margo and company taking a curtain call. Tumultuous applause... the curtain falls. The cast, except for Margo and two male leads, walk off. The curtain rises again... 
EVE, watching and listening to the storm of applause. Her eyes shine, she clasps and unclasps her hands... 
THE STAGE, Eve again in the f.g., but closer. Again the curtain falls. This time the two men go off. Curtain rises on Margo alone. If anything, the applause builds... 
EVE, that same hypnotic look... there are tears in her eyes. The curtain falls offscene, then rises again - 
MARGO, the curtain falls again between her and CAMERA... 
BACKSTAGE, the curtain just settling on the floor. Margo starts off. 
STAGE MANAGER One more? 
MARGO (shakes her head) From now on it's not applause - just something to do till the aisles get less crowded... 
She walks as she talks and winds up at Eve - still in the wings. Eve's eyes are wet, she dabs at her nose. 
MARGO What - again? 
OPERATOR'S VOICE We are ready with your call to Beverly Hills... 
MARGO Call, what call? 
OPERATOR'S VOICE It this Templeton 89970? Miss Margo Channing? 
MARGO That's right, but I don't understand- 
OPERATOR'S VOICE We are ready with the call you placed for 12 midnight, California time, to Mr. William Sampson in Beverly Hills... 
MARGO I placed...? 
OPERATOR'S VOICE Go ahead, please... 
BILL'S VOICE (a loud, happy squawk) Margo! What a wonderful surprise! 
Margo jumps at his vehemence. As she does so, the SCREEN WIPES DOWN DIAGONALLY LEFT TO RIGHT, so that Margo remains in the lower right-hand diagonal of the screen and Bill is disclosed in the upper left. He, too, is in bed, reading. His clock says midnight. 
BILL (continuing) What a thoughtful, ever-lovin' thing to do- 
MARGO (dazed) Bill? Have I gone crazy, Bill? 
BILL You're my girl, aren't you? 
MARGO That I am... 
BILL Then you're crazy. 
MARGO (nods in agreement) When - when are you coming back? 
BILL I leave in a week - the picture's all wrapped up, we previewed last night... those previews. Like opening out of town, but terrifying. There's nothing you can do, you're trapped, you're in a tin can- 
MARGO - in a tin can, cellophane or wrapped in a Navajo blanket, I want you home... 
BILL You in a hurry? 
MARGO A big hurry, be quick about it - so good night, darling, and sleep tight... 
BILL Wait a minute! You can't hang up, you haven't even said it- 
MARGO Bill, you know how much I do - but over the phone, now really, that's kid stuff... 
BILL Kid stuff or not, it doesn't happen every day, I want to heat it - and if you won't say it, you can sing it... 
MARGO (convinced she's gone mad) Sing it? 
BILL Sure! Like the Western Union boys used to do... 
Margo's eyes pop. Her jaw and the phone sag. 
MARGO Bill... Bill, it's your birthday. 
BILL And who remembered it? Who was there on the dot, at twelve midnight...? 
Margo knows damn well it wasn't she. 
MARGO (miserably) Happy birthday, darling... 
BILL The reading could have been better, but you said it - now "many happy returns of the day..." 
MARGO (the same) Many happy returns of the day... 
BILL I get a party, don't I? 
MARGO Of course, birthday and welcome home... who'll I ask? 
BILL (laughs) It's no secret, I know all about the party - Eve wrote me... 
MARGO She did...? 
BILL She hasn't missed a week since I left - but you know all that, you probably tell her what to write... anyway, I sent her a list of people to ask - check with her. 
MARGO Yeah... I will. 
BILL How is Eve? Okay? 
MARGO Okay. 
BILL I love you... 
MARGO (mutters) I'll check with Eve... 
BILL What? 
MARGO I love you too. Good night, darling- 
BILL See you... 
Margo hangs up. Bill hangs up. He replaces the phone, picks up his book... SLOW WIPE until ONLY MARGO is on screen. She puts her phone away. She gets a cigarette. She lights it. She rolls over on her back... 
INT. MARGO'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Margo is propped up in bed, still reflective. Birdie comes in with her breakfast tray and a "hi" which gets a "hi" from Margo. She starts on some petty chores. Margo takes a sip of orange juice... 
MARGO Birdie- 
EVE Hollywood. 
KAREN Tell me, Eve - how are things with you? Happy? 
Eve melts into warmth. She beams, sits on the bed. Karen has spun around on the dressing table stool. 
EVE There should be a new word for happiness. Being here with Miss Channing has been - I just can't say, she's been so wonderful, done so much for me- 
KAREN (smiles) Lloyd says Margo compensates for underplaying on the stage by overplaying reality... (she gets up, gets her coat) ... next to that sable, my new mink seems like an old bedjacket... (throws it over her shoulder) ... you've done your share, Eve. You've worked wonders with Margo... 
She starts out. 
EVE (hesitantly) Mrs. Richards. 
KAREN (pauses, smiles) Karen. 
EVE Karen... (she picks at the coverlet) ... isn't it awful, I'm about to ask you for another favor - after all you've already done. 
KAREN (crosses to her) Nobody's done so much, Eve, you've got to stop thinking of yourself as one of the Hundred Neediest Cases... what is it? 
EVE Well... Miss Channing's affairs are in such good shape... there isn't enough to keep me as busy as I should be, really - not that I've ever considered anything that would take me away from her... but the other day - when I heard Mr. Fabian tell Miss Channing that her understudy was going to have a baby, and they'd have to replace her... 
She looks down at the coverlet once more. 
KAREN ... you want to be Margo's new understudy. 
EVE I don't let myself think about it, even- (she looks up, rises as she speaks) - but I do know the part so well, and every bit of the staging, there'd be no need to break in a new girl- (suddenly afraid, she sits) - but suppose I had to go on one night? To an audience that came to see Margo Channing. No, I couldn't possibly... 
KAREN (laughs) Don't worry too much about that. Margo just doesn't miss performances. If she can walk, crawl or roll - she plays. 
EVE (nods proudly) The show must go on. 
KAREN No, dear. Margo must go on. (she sits beside Eve) As a matter of fact, I see no reason why you shouldn't be Margo's understudy... 
EVE Do you think Miss Channing would approve? 
KAREN I think she would cheer. 
EVE But Mr. Richards and Mr. Sampson- 
KAREN They'll do as they're told. 
Eve smiles a little. A pause. 
EVE Then - would you talk to Mr. Fabian about it? 
KAREN Of course. 
EVE You won't forget it? 
KAREN I won't forget. 
EVE I seem to be forever thanking you for something, don't I? 
She hugs Karen, leaves. She nearly collides with Birdie on her way in. 
BIRDIE The bed looks like a dead animal act. Which one is sables? 
KAREN (pointing) But she just got here... 
BIRDIE She's on her way. With half the men in the joint. (she hold up the coat) It's only a fur coat... 
KAREN What did you expect - live sables? 
BIRDIE A diamond collar, gold sleeves - you know, picture people... 
They start out. 
KAREN Bill says actors out there eat just as infrequently as here- 
BIRDIE They can always grab oranges off trees. This you can't do in Times Square... 
Through the open door, we see them go down the stairs and out of sight. 
INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING AND STAIRS - NIGHT 
Karen and Birdie come down the stairs to Bill, Max, Addison, a blonde young lady named MISS CASWELL (Addison's protegee-of the-moment) - and, at the feet of Bill and Addison... Eve. They are all seated on the steps. 
Birdie goes through and down the stairs to the first floor. Karen remains with the others. 
Addison is holding forth: 
ADDISON Every now and then, some elder statesman of the Theater or cinema assures the public that actors and actresses are just plain folk. Ignoring the fact that their greatest attraction to the public is their complete lack of resemblance to normal human beings. 
MISS CASWELL (as Birdie and the sables pass) Now there's something a girl could make sacrifices for. 
BILL'S VOICE And probably has. 
MISS CASWELL Sable. 
MAX (to Miss Caswell) Did you say sable - or Gable? 
MISS CASWELL Either one. 
ADDISON It is senseless to insist that theatrical folk in New York, Hollywood and London are no different from the good people of Des Moines, Chillicothe and Liverpool. By and large, we are concentrated gatherings of neurotics, egomaniacs, emotional misfits, and precocious children- 
She starts upstairs. 
BILL Need any help? 
MARGO (pauses, smiles) To put me to bed? Take my clothes off, hold my head, tuck me in, turn off the lights, tiptoe out...? eve would. Wouldn't you, Eve? 
EVE If you'd like. 
MARGO I wouldn't like. 
She goes up, exits out of sight. A pause. Miss Caswell reaches up to take the drink out of Max's hand. 
MAX I forgot I had it. 
MISS CASWELL I didn't. 
Bill gets up and goes after Margo... 
ADDISON Too bad! We'll miss the third act. They're going to play it off stage. 
Eve turns away abruptly, in sudden tears. 
LLOYD Coming? 
KAREN In a minute... 
She crosses to Eve, puts an arm around her. 
KAREN You mustn't mind Margo too much, even if I do... 
EVE But there must be some reason, something I've done without knowing... 
KAREN The reason is Margo and don't try to figure it out. Einstein couldn't. 
EVE If I thought I'd offended her, of all people- 
KAREN Eve. I'm fond of Margo too. But I know Margo. And every now and then there is nothing I want to do so much as to kick her right square in the pants. 
EVE (smiles) Well - if she's got to pick on someone, I'd just as soon it was me. 
Karen smiles back. She joins Lloyd and Max. 
LLOYD Max is going to drop us... 
ADDISON I've often wondered, Max, why you bother with a chauffeur and limousine in New York City. 
MAX In my case it's necessary. Too many taxi drivers write plays. 
ADDISON And too many of them are produced. 
MISS CASWELL Let's go sit by the piano. 
ADDISON You have me confused with Dan Dailey. You go sit by the piano. (to Eve) And you come sit by me. (to the others) Good night. 
They laugh, say "good night," and start downstairs. As Eve crosses to Addison: 
EVE Karen... (Karen pauses) ... you won't forget, will you? What we talked about before? 
KAREN (smiles) No, Eve, I won't forget... 
She follows the men downstairs. CLOSE UP of an old engraving of Mrs. Siddons as 'The Tragic Muse' which hangs among other theatrical mementos on the stair wall... 
INT. DINING HALL - SARAH SIDDONS SOCIETY - NIGHT 
The applause continues. Margo sits back in her chair now, picking at a bit of fingernail polish... 
MARGO'S VOICE Bill's welcoming-home-birthday party... a night to go down in history. Like the Chicago Fire - or the Massacre of the Huguenots. Even before the party started, I could smell disaster in the air... 
INT. MARGO'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
The same night as the previous sequence, but before the party has started. Margo is all dressed except for jewelry. She stands before her dressing table putting it on. She sips at an enormous Martini... 
MARGO'S VOICE I knew it, I sensed it even as I finished dressing for that blasted party... 
Birdie comes in. 
BIRDIE You all put together? 
MARGO My back's open. (Birdie goes to work on it) Did the extra help get here? 
BIRDIE There's some loose characters dressed like maids and butlers. Who'd you call - the William Morris Agency? 
MARGO You're not being funny, I could get actors for less. What about the food? 
BIRDIE The caterer had to back for hors d'oeuvres- (she zips Margo) Voila. 
MARGO (laughs) That French ventriloquist taught you a lot, didn't he? 
BIRDIE There was nothing he didn't know. (she starts tidying the room) There's a message from the bartender. Does Miss Channing know we ordered domestic gin by mistake? 
MARGO The only thing I ordered by mistake is the guests. (Birdie cackles) They're domestic, too, and they don't care what they drink as long as it burns... where's Bill? He's late. 
BIRDIE Late for what? 
MARGO Don't be dense. The party. 
MARGO Cut! Print it! What happens in the next reel? Do I get dragged off screaming to the snake pit? 
EVE'S VOICE (quietly) Miss Channing? 
Bill and Margo look off. Eve is in the room. They have no way of knowing how long she's been there. 
EVE The hors d'oeuvres are here. Is there anything else I can do? 
MARGO Thank you, Eve. I'd like a Martini - very dry. 
BILL I'll get it. (he crosses to Eve) What'll you have? 
Eve, involuntarily, looks to Margo. 
MARGO A milkshake? 
Eve smiles, turns to Bill. 
EVE A Martini. Very dry, please... 
Bill smiles back and starts across the landing toward the pantry. As he crosses the stairs, Karen, Lloyd and Max come up from the street level below. General greetings. Bill continues up to pantry. Eve and then Margo come up to add their welcome... 
EVE (to Karen) May I have your coat? 
KAREN Don't bother, I can take it up myself... 
EVE Please... 
Karen yields with a "thank you, Eve-." Eve goes up with the coat. Lloyd looks after her approvingly. 
LLOYD I like that girl. That quality of quiet graciousness... 
MARGO ... Among so many quiet qualities. 
They start for the living room. 
KAREN Margo, nothing you've ever done has made me as happy as your taking Eve in... 
MARGO I'm so happy you're happy. 
MAX Look, you haven't been running a settlement house exactly - the kid's earned her way. You had a pretty mixed-up inventory when she took over - merchandise laying all over the shop... 
LLOYD You've got Margo mixed up with a five-and-ten-cent store... 
MARGO Make it Bergdorf Goodman... and now everything is on its proper shelf, eh, Max? Done up in little ribbons. I could die right now and nobody'd be confused. How about you, Max? 
MAX How about me what? 
They've come to a halt near the fireplace. 
MARGO Supposed you dropped dead. What about your inventory? 
MAX I ain't gonna die. Not with a hit. 
KAREN This is the most ghoulish conversation... 
Bill brings two Martinis. He hands one to Margo. 
MARGO (it drips ice) Thank you. 
BILL Nothing, really... 
MARGO The kid - junior, that is - will be right down. Unless you'd like to take her drink up to her... 
BILL (smiles) I can always get a fresh one. Karen - you're a Gibson girl... 
He hands Eve's drink to Karen. Max has wandered off. Other guests are arriving. Margo gulps her drink, hands Bill the empty glass. He puts it on a passing tray. Margo takes a fresh one at the same time. 
LLOYD The general atmosphere is very Macbethish. What has or is about to happen? 
MARGO (to Bill) What is he talking about? 
BILL Macbeth. 
KAREN (to Margo) We know you, we've seen you before like this. Is it over - or just beginning? 
Margo surveys them all. 
MARGO Fasten your seat belts. It's going to be a bumpy night. 
She downs the drink, hands the empty glass to Bill, and leaves them. She passes two women, gabbing by the piano. As they see her: 
WOMAN #1 Margo, darling! 
WOMAN #2 Darling! 
MARGO (passing) Darlings... 
She arrives at the landing just as Addison comes up with Miss Caswell. Margo takes a drink from a passing tray. 
MARGO (to Addison) I distinctly remember striking your name from the guest list. What are you doing here? 
ADDISON Dear Margo. You were an unforgettable Peter Pan - you must play it again, soon. You remember Miss Caswell? 
MARGO I do not. How do you do? 
ADDISON Margo, as you know, i have lived in the Theater as a Trappist monk lives in his faith. I have no other world, no other life - and once in a great while I experience that moment of Revelation for which all true believers wait and pray. You were one. Jeanne Eagels another... Paula Wessely... Hayes - there are others, three or four. Eve Harrington will be among them... 
MARGO (flatly) I take it she read well. 
ADDISON It wasn't reading, it was a performance. Brilliant, vivid, something made of music and fire... 
MARGO How nice. 
ADDISON In time she'll be what you are. 
MARGO A mass of music and fire. That's me. An old kazoo and some sparkles. Tell me - was Bill swept away, too, or were you too full of Revelation to notice? 
ADDISON Bill didn't say - but Lloyd was beside himself. He listened to his play as if someone else had written it, he said, it sounded so fresh, so new, so full of meaning... 
MARGO How nice for Lloyd. And how nice for Eve. How nice for everybody. 
Addison, of course, knows exactly what she's doing. He senses the approaching typhoon, he whips it up... 
ADDISON Eve was incredibly modest. She insisted that no credit was due her, that Lloyd felt as he did only because she read lines exactly as he had written them. 
MARGO The implication being that I have not been reading them as written. 
ADDISON To the best of my recollection, neither your name nor your performance entered the conversation. 
Miss Caswell appears, uncertain, in the b.g. 
ADDISON Feeling better, my dear? 
MISS CASWELL Like I just swam the English Channel. Now what? 
ADDISON You next move, it seems to me, should be toward television. 
Margo, abruptly, starts for the auditorium. Addison smiles. He takes Miss Caswell's arm. 
MISS CASWELL Tell me this. Do they have auditions for television? 
ADDISON That's all television is, my dear. Nothing but auditions. 
He takes her toward the street. 
INT. THEATER - CURRAN THEATER - DAY 
The curtain is up; the set, covered, is a bedroom in a deteriorating Southern mansion. 
There is no one in the theater but Max, seated on the aisle about two-thirds down, and Eve with Lloyd and Bill on the stage. She is seated; they stand between her and auditorium. There is some ad lib talk among the three which we cannot make out. Margo marches down the aisle with a steady pace. 
She passes Max smiles a sickly, hopeful smile. She ignores him as if he were a used paper cup. She disappears through the door which leads backstage. 
Max whistles. Lloyd turns. Max indicated the door and puts his hands to his head in despair. 
Margo walks out of the wings on stage. Bill and Lloyd turn to her. Eve rises. 
MARGO (cheerily) Terribly sorry I'm late, lunch was long and I couldn't find a cab - where's Miss Caswell, shall we start? Oh, hello, Eve... 
EVE Hello, Miss Channing. 
MARGO How are you making out in Mr. Fabian's office? (over the footlights to Max) I don't want you working the child too hard, Max - just because you promised. As you see, I kept my promise, too... 
Max slumps in his seat. By the time Margo turns back to them, the others have exchanged swift looks. 
BILL It's all over. 
MARGO What's all over? 
BILL The audition. 
MARGO (pleased astonishment) Eve? (she turns to her) How enchanting... (to Lloyd and Bill) Wherever did you get the idea of having Eve read with Miss Caswell? 
LLOYD She's your understudy. 
MARGO Eve? Eve, my understudy? But I had no idea... 
LLOYD I thought you knew... She was put on over a week ago- 
MARGO It seems almost inconceivable that I haven't seen her backstage, but with so many people loitering around... well, well. So Eve is not working for Max after all- (out to Max again) - Max you sly puss. 
Max submerges further in his seat. 
EVE Miss Channing, I can't tell you how glad I am that you arrived so late. 
MARGO Really, Eve? Why? 
EVE Well, if you'd been here to begin with, I wouldn't have dared to read at all... 
MARGO Why not? 
EVE ... and if you'd come in the middle, I'd have stopped, I couldn't have gone on- 
MARGO (murmurs) What a pity, all that fire and music being turned off... 
BILL What fire and music? 
MARGO You wouldn't understand. (to Lloyd) How was Miss Caswell? 
LLOYD Back to Copacabana. But Eve. Margo, let me tell you about Eve- 
BILL Don't mix your metaphors. 
MARGO I mix what I like. 
BILL Okay. Mix. 
MARGO I'm nothing but a body with a voice. No mind. 
BILL What a body, what a voice. 
MARGO The ex-ship news' reporter. No body, no voice, all mind! 
BILL The gong rang. The fight's over. Calm down. 
MARGO I will not calm down! 
BILL Don't calm down. 
MARGO You're being terribly tolerant, aren't you? 
BILL I'm trying terribly hard. 
MARGO Well, you needn't. I will not be tolerated. And I will not be plotted against! 
BILL Here we go... 
MARGO Such nonsense, what do you all take me for - little Nell from the country? Been my understudy for over a week without my knowing, carefully hidden no doubt- 
BILL (sits up) Now don't get carried away- 
MARGO (going right on) - shows up for an audition when everyone knew I'd be here... and gives a performance! Out of nowhere - gives a performance! 
BILL You've been all through that with Lloyd- 
MARGO The playwright doesn't make the performance - and it doesn't just happen! And this one didn't - full of fire and music and whatnot, it was carefully rehearsed I have no doubt, over and over, full of those Bill Sampson touches! 
BILL I am sick and tired of these paranoiac outbursts! 
MARGO Paranoiac! 
BILL I didn't know Eve Harrington was your understudy until half past two this afternoon! 
MARGO Tell that to Dr. Freud! Along with the rest of it... 
She turns away. Bill grabs her, pulls her down on the bed. He holds her down. 
BILL No, I'll tell it to you! For the last time, I'll tell it to you. Because you've got to stop hurting yourself, and me, and the two of us by these paranoiac tantrums! 
MARGO (struggling) That word again! I don't even know what it means... 
BILL (firmly) It's time you found out. I love you. (Margo says "Ha!") I love you. You're a beautiful and intelligent woman- (Margo says "A body with a voice") - a beautiful and intelligent woman and a great actress- (he waits; Margo says nothing) - at the peak of her career. You have every reason for happiness- (Margo says "Except happiness") - every reason, but due to some strange, uncontrollable, unconscious drive you permit the slightest action of a kid- (Margo sneers "Kid!") - kid like Eve to turn you into a hysterical, screaming harpy! Now once and for all, stop it! 
Margo seems quiet. He gets up. She sits up. 
MARGO It's obvious you're not a woman. 
BILL I've been aware of that for some time. 
MARGO Well, I am. 
BILL I'll say. 
MARGO Don't be condescending. 
BILL Come on, get up. I'll buy you a drink. 
MARGO (with dignity) I admit I may have seen better days, but I am still not to be had for the price of a cocktail - like a salted peanut. 
BILL (laughs) Margo, let's make peace. 
MARGO The terms are too high. Unconditional surrender. 
BILL Just being happy? Just stopping all this nonsense about Eve - and Eve and me? 
MARGO It's not nonsense. 
BILL But if I tell you it is - as I just did. Were you listening to me? (Margo nods) Isn't that enough? 
MARGO I wish it were. 
BILL Then what would be enough? (Margo doesn't answer) If we were married? 
MARGO I wouldn't want you to marry me just to prove something. 
BILL You've had so many reasons for not wanting to marry me... Margo, tell me what's behind all this. 
MARGO I - I don't know, Bill. Just a feeling, I don't know... 
BILL I think you do know but you won't or can't tell me. (Margo doesn't say) I said before it was going to be my last try, and I meant it. I can't think of anything else to do. I wish I could. (a pause) We usually wind up screaming and throwing things as the curtain comes down. Then it comes up again and everything's fine. But not this time. (he takes a breath) You know there isn't a playwright in the world who could make me believe this would happen between two adult people. Goodbye, Margo. 
No word from her. He starts away. 
MARGO Bill... (he stops) ... where are you going? To find Eve? 
BILL (smiles grimly) That suddenly makes the whole thing believable. 
KAREN Of all people you should know what it means to want some peace and quiet- 
MARGO Peace and quit is for libraries. 
The car swerves - suddenly and slightly. 
KAREN Lloyd, be careful... 
LLOYD Just a little skid, that's all. This road's like glass. 
MARGO Karen and I just don't want an accident- 
LLOYD I have no intention of having an accident! 
MARGO It's not important whether you do. We are wearing long underwear. 
They all laugh. Suddenly the car slows and stops - with that hissing sound that can mean only one thing - no gas. 
LLOYD Now what's this...? 
He tries to start it again. No luck. He turns on the dashboard lights. The gas gauge reads empty. 
LLOYD But it can't be! We can't be out of gas! I filled it myself yesterday! (to Karen) Wasn't it full when you drove to Brewster this morning? 
KAREN (very low) I guess I didn't look. You know I don't pay attention to those things... 
LLOYD Incredible. 
Futilely, he runs the started again. 
MARGO (crisply) How much time have we? 
KAREN Roughly ten minutes. 
MARGO How far to the station? 
KAREN Three or four miles... 
MARGO Any houses or farms around where we can borrow gas? 
KAREN (looking) None in sight, there aren't many along this back road... 
MARGO Not many car either, not much chance of a lift... 
A moment of silence. 
LLOYD Well. No sense my just sitting here. I'm going to walk up about half a mile, just in case. 
He starts out of the car. The cold comes in like a knife, the women react. 
KAREN You'll break your neck on that ice. 
LLOYD (grins) What a way to die - trying to get an actress to the theater in time. Tell Max I want to be buried with royalties... 
KAREN Don't joke about such things. 
MARGO (quietly) How fortunate that I have an understudy so ready, so willing and so able to go on. 
LLOYD The audience will want its money refunded, believe me. 
MARGO Thank you, Lloyd. Godspeed. 
Lloyd starts down the road. He slips once, recovers, waves and keeps going. 
KAREN He always looks so pathetic whenever he does anything physical- 
MARGO It seems to me that walking, for most people, is not very dangerous. 
KAREN (smiles) I just never think of Lloyd as anywhere but indoors and anything but sitting down. 
MARGO Be brave. He'll come back - with or without gas. 
They tuck the fur car robe around them. A pause. Margo turns on the radio... it's "Liebestraum." 
MARGO Do you want it on? 
KAREN It doesn't matter. 
MARGO I detest cheap sentiment. 
She turns it off. Another pause. 
MARGO Karen. (Karen says "hm?") I haven't been pleasant this weekend. 
KAREN We've all seemed a little tense lately... 
MARGO Come to think of it, I haven't been very pleasant for weeks. For that, I'm truly sorry. More than any two people I know, I don't want you and Lloyd to be angry with me... 
KAREN We're never deeply angry, we just get sore. The way you do. We know you too well... 
MARGO So many people - know me. I wish I did. I wish someone would tell be about me... 
KAREN You're Margo. Just - Margo. 
MARGO And what is that? Besides something spelled out in light bulbs, I mean. Besides something called temperament, which consists mostly of swooping about on a broomstick creaming at the top of my voice... infants behave the way I do, you know. They carry on and misbehave - they'd get drunk if they knew how - when they can't have what they want. When they feel unwanted and insecure - or unloved. 
BILL (lightly) The names I've been called. But never Svengali. (he pats her shoulder) Good luck. 
He starts out. Addison ducks. 
EVE Don't run away, Bill. 
BILL (stops) From what would I be running? 
EVE You're always after truth - on the stage. What about off? 
BILL (curiously) I'm for it. 
EVE Then face it. I have. Since that first night - here - in the dressing room. 
BILL (smiles) When I told you what every young actress should know. 
EVE When you told me that whatever I became, it would be because of you- 
BILL Your make-up's a little heavy. 
EVE - and for you. 
BILL (slowly) You're quite a girl. 
EVE You think? 
BILL I'm in love with Margo. Hadn't you heard? 
EVE You hear all kinds of things. 
BILL I'm only human, rumors to the contrary. And I'm as curious as the next man... 
EVE Find out. 
BILL (deliberately) Only thing, what I go after, I want to go after. I don't want it to come after me. 
Tears come to Eve's eyes. She turns away slowly. 
BILL Don't cry. Just score it as an incomplete forward pass. 
He walks out. Addison ducks to avoid being seen. Eve glares after Bill, tears the wig from her head, throws it on the dressing table. Her glance is caught by a pair of scissors. Swiftly, she snatches them up and in a sharp, vicious gesture she slashes the wig. Addison knocks politely at the door. Eve turns. 
ADDISON May I come in? 
EVE Certainly, Mr. deWitt... 
ADDISON (entering) I expected to find this little room overcrowded, with a theater full of people at your feet... 
EVE I consider myself lucky they didn't throw things. 
She starts creaming her face, removing make-up. 
ADDISON Of course your performance was no surprise to me. After the other day I regarded it as no more than - a promised fulfilled. 
EVE You're more than kind. But it's still Miss Channing's performance. I'm just a carbon copy you read when you can't find the original... 
ADDISON You're more than modest. 
EVE It's not modesty. I just don't try to kid myself. 
ADDISON A revolutionary approach to the Theater. However, if I may a suggestion... 
EVE Please do. 
ADDISON I think the time has come for you to shed some of your humility. It is just as false not to blow your horn at all as it is to blow it too loudly... 
EVE I don't think I've done anything to sound off about. 
ADDISON We all come into this world with our little egos equipped with individual horns. If we don't blow them - who will? 
EVE Even so. One isolated pretty good performance by an understudy. It'll be forgotten tomorrow. 
ADDISON It needn't be. 
EVE Even if I wanted to - as you say - be less humble, blow my own horn... how would I do it? I'm less than nobody. 
ADDISON I am somebody. 
Eve rises. She eyes him steadily. 
EVE You certainly are. 
She goes into the bathroom. 
ADDISON Leave the door open a bit, so we can talk. 
Eve does so. 
ADDISON After you change, if you're not busy elsewhere, we can have supper. 
EVE (from the bathroom) I'd love to! Or should I pretend I'm busy? 
ADDISON (smiling) Let's have a minimum of pretending. I'll want to do a column about you- 
EVE I'm not enough for a paragraph. 
MARGO It get better! "- About the understandable reluctance on the part of our entrenched First Ladies of the Stage to encourage, shall we say - younger - actresses; about Miss Harrington's own long and unsupported struggle for opportunity-" 
KAREN I can't believe Eve said those things! 
Margo crumples the paper as if it were Eve's neck. 
MARGO (pacing) In this rat race, everybody's guilty till they're proved innocent! One of the differences between the Theater and civilization... (she hurls the paper away) ... what gets me is how all of those papers in town happened to catch that particular performance! 
KAREN (weakly) Lloyd says it's a publicity release... 
MARGO The little witch must have had Indians runners out snatching critics out of bars, steam rooms and museums or wherever they hole up... well, she won't get away with it! Nor will Addison deWitt and his poison pen! If Equity or my lawyer can't or won't do anything about it, I will personally stuff that pathetic little lost lamb down Mr. deWitt's ugly throat... 
She pauses in midair to look at... Bill. He has come up the stairs tow at a time, stands at the landing. 
BILL (quietly) I came as soon as I read that piece of filth. I ran all the way... 
Margo suddenly starts to cry. She turns from him. Bill takes her in his arms. He holds her... 
BILL Bill's here, baby. Everything's all right, now... 
Margo says nothing, just hides in his embrace. He soothes her, pets her... he looks over at Karen. 
KAREN I guess at this point I'm what the French call 'de trop'... 
BILL (smiles) Maybe just a little around the edges. 
Karen smiles back, waves, and goes out. 
INT. RICHARDS' APARTMENT - DAY 
Karen's having some lunch. Lloyd, still in his robe, sits opposite her having some coffee and a cigarette. A copy of the interview before him. 
LLOYD (is saying) - it's Addison, from start to finish, it drips with his brand of venom... taking advantage of a kid like that, twisting her words, making her say what he wanted her to say- 
KAREN Where'd you get all that information? 
LLOYD (put out his cigarette) Eve. 
KAREN Eve? 
LLOYD She's been to see me, as a matter of fact she left just before you came in - you just missed her... 
KAREN That was a pity... 
LLOYD (gets up) She wanted to explain about her interview, wanted to apologize to someone - and didn't dare face Margo... 
KAREN I wonder why. 
Lloyd wanders about - he seems to be searching for words, for a position to maintain... 
LLOYD She started to tell me all about it - and she couldn't finish, she cried so... 
He's over by a window, his back to her. Karen eyes him curiously, waiting for the payoff... 
LLOYD (finally) You know, I've been going over our financial condition - if you'll pardon the expression... 
KAREN That's quite a change of subject. 
LLOYD (walks again) What with taxes coming up - and since I'm a playwright and not an oil well operator - well, I've been thinking... 
KAREN I'm trying hard to follow you. 
LLOYD If - instead of waiting until next season to do 'Footsteps on the Ceiling', which is in pretty good shape - and if Margo can be talked into going on tour with 'Aged in Wood' - we could put 'Footsteps...' into production right away... 
KAREN I'm beginning to catch up. 
LLOYD If we could cast it properly, that is... 
KAREN (carefully) Maybe get some younger actress for the part? Someone who'd look the part as well as play it? 
LLOYD (smiles) You've got to admit it would be a novelty. 
KAREN Now you're quoting Addison. Or Eve. 
A pause. 
LLOYD Eve did mention the play, you know. But just in passing - she's never ask to play a part like "Cora," she'd never have the nerve... 
KAREN Eve would ask Abbott to give her Costello. 
LLOYD No, I got the idea myself - while she was talking to me... 
KAREN With gestures, of course. 
LLOYD (wistfully) For once, to write something and have it realized completely. For once, not to compromise- 
Now Karen explodes. She rises. 
KAREN Lloyd Richards, you are not to consider giving that contemptible little worm the part of "Cora." 
LLOYD Now just a minute- 
KAREN Margo Channing has not been exactly a compromise all these years, half the playwrights in the world would give their shirts for that particular compromise! 
LLOYD (angry) Now just a minute! 
BILL The point is - in the cathedral, a ball park or a penny arcade - we want to have you two beside us our nearest and dearest friends. 
Lloyd fills all the glasses. 
LLOYD There are very few moments in life as good as this. Let's remember it. (he lifts his glass) To each of us and all of us... never have we been more close - may we never be farther apart. 
They drink. A waiter approaches with a note. 
WAITER Mrs. Richards? 
KAREN Yes? 
WAITER For you. 
Karen stares at it curiously, then opens it. 
LLOYD Very discreet. A note right out in the open like that. Next time tell your lover to blow smoke rings - or tap a glass... 
MARGO Lloyd, I want you to be big about this... the world is full of love tonight, no woman is safe... 
KAREN (angrily) This beats all world's records for running, standing and jumping gall! 
She whips the note to Margo, who reads it aloud. 
MARGO (reading) "Please forgive me for butting into what seems such a happy occasion - but it's most important that I speak with you. Please" - it's underlined - "meet me in the Ladies' Room. Eve." 
BILL I understand she is now the understudy in there. 
MARGO (looking about) Pass me the empty bottle. I may find her... why, look. There's Rasputin. 
Addison sits near the entrance, at a banquette table for two. A crumpled napkin and a wine glass indicate Eve's place. He nibbles daintily at some blini. 
Margo hails a passing captain. 
MARGO Encore du champagne. 
CAPTAIN More champagne, Miss Channing? 
MARGO That's what I said, bub. 
LLOYD (to Karen) After all, maybe she just wants to apologize... 
KAREN I have no possible interest in anything she'd have to say. 
BILL But what could she say? That's what fascinates me... 
LLOYD Go on - find out... 
MARGO Karen, in all the years of our friendship, I have never let you go to the Ladies' Room alone. But now I must. I am busting to know what goes on in that feverish little brain waiting there... 
KAREN Well... all right. 
She gets up and goes. The CAMERA takes her past Addison's table. He rises in polite surprise. 
ADDISON Karen! How nice... 
She walks past him without a word. He smiles, looks toward the group. He raises his glass in a toast. 
Margo responds to the toast by waving an onion with a grand flourish, then eating it. 
BILL Very effective. But why take it out on me? 
He eats one in self-defense. 
INT. LADIES' ROOM - STORK CLUB - NIGHT 
Never having been, I can't say what it looks like. It is to be hoped that there is an outer and inner room. We are concerned with the outer. 
There is an attendant in charge, and a constantly changing flow of ladies who pause to make various repairs. All cafe society - including one young drunk stretched out under a mink coat and a wet towel. 
There are two chairs - or a banquette - in a corner. Eve waits there. She rises as Karen approaches. 
EVE I was wondering whether you'd come at all.. 
KAREN Don't get up. (she smiles grimly) And don't act as if I were the queen mother. 
EVE I don't expect you to be pleasant. 
KAREN I don't intend to be. 
EVE Can't we sit down? Just for a minute... 
She sits down. Karen remains standing. 
EVE I've got a lot to say. And none of it is easy. 
KAREN There can't be very much- 
EVE Oh, but there is- 
KAREN - and easy or not, I won't believe a word. 
EVE Why shouldn't you? (a pause) Please sit down. 
Karen sits, reluctantly and rigidly. 
EVE Nothing of the kind. Karen and I had a nice talk. 
ADDISON Heart to heart? Woman to woman? Including a casual reference to the part of "Cora" - and your hopes of playing it. 
EVE I discussed it very openly. I told her that I had spoken to Lloyd - and that he was interested. 
ADDISON She mentioned, of course, that Margo expects to play the part? 
EVE Oddly enough - she didn't say a word about Margo. Just that she'll be happy to do what she can to see that I play the part. 
Addison puffs at his cigarette, bemused. 
ADDISON Just like that, eh? 
EVE Just like that. 
ADDISON (thoughtfully) Do you know, Eve - sometimes I think you keep things from me. 
Eve's feelings are hurt. 
EVE I don't think that's funny. 
ADDISON It wasn't meant to be. 
EVE I confide in you and rely on you more than anyone I've ever known! To say a thing like that now - without any reason - when I need you more than ever... 
ADDISON (breaks in) I hope you mean what you say, Eve. I intend to hold you to it. 
Their eyes meet. 
ADDISON We have a great deal in common, it seems to me... 
They both look as Karen passes them on her way back to her table. 
GROUP, as Karen joins them. Another bottle of champagne has come and almost gone - there's a fine, cheery feeling among them. Margo, in particular, is cheery. A pause. Karen downs a glass of champagne. 
LLOYD - well? What happened? 
KAREN Nothing much. She apologized. 
MARGO With tears? 
KAREN With tears. 
MARGO But not right away? First the business of fighting them off, chin up, stout fella... 
KAREN Check. 
MARGO Very classy stuff, lots of technique- 
LLOYD You mean - all this time - she'd done nothing but apologize? What'd you say? 
KAREN Not much. 
MARGO Groom- (Bill says "huh?") - may I have a wedding present? 
BILL What would you like? Texas? 
MARGO I want everybody to shut up about Eve. Just shut up about Eve, that's all I want. Give Karen more wine... (blissfully) ... never have I been so happy. Isn't this a lovely room? The Cub Room. What a lovely, clever name. Where the elite meet. Never have I seen so much elite - and all with their eyes on me. Waiting for me to crack that little gnome over the noggin with a bottle. But not tonight. Even Eve. I forgive Eve... there they go. 
They all look. 
ADDISON AND EVE, they get up and go without looking back. 
GROUP, they watch for an instant. 
MARGO There goes Eve. Eve evil, Little Miss Evil. But the evil that men do - how does it go, groom? Something about the good they leave behind - I played it once in rep in Wilkes Barre... 
BILL You've got it backwards. Even for Wilkes-Barre. 
MARGO You know why I forgive Eve? Because she's left good behind - the four of us, together like this, it's Eve's fault - I forgive her... 
Karen's reactions are, of course, most important. Knowing what she's done to Margo - wondering how to do what she must. 
MARGO ... and Bill. Especially Bill. Eve did that, too. 
LLOYD You know, she probably means well, after all... 
MARGO She is a louse. 
BILL (to Lloyd) Never try to outguess Margo. 
MARGO Groom. 
BILL Yes, dear. 
MARGO You know what I'm going to be? 
BILL A cowboy. 
MARGO A married lady. 
BILL With the paper to prove it. 
MARGO I'm going to have a home. Not just a house I'm afraid to stay in... and a man to go with it. I'll look up at six o'clock - and there he'll be... remember, Karen? 
ADDISON (thoughtfully) I see. And when was this unholy alliance joined? 
EVE We decided the night before last, before we came up here... 
ADDISON (increasingly tense) Was the setting properly romantic - the lights on dimmers, gypsy violins off stage? 
EVE The setting wasn't romantic, but Lloyd was. He woke me up at three in the morning, banging on my door - he couldn't sleep, he told me - he's left Karen, he couldn't go on with the play or anything else until I promised to marry him... we sat and talked until it was light. He never went home... 
ADDISON You sat and talked until it was light... 
EVE (meaningly) We sat and talked, Addison. I want a run of the play contract. 
ADDISON (quietly) There never was, there'll never be another like you. 
EVE (happily) Well, say something - anything! Congratulations, skol - good work, Eve! 
Addison rises slowly, to his full height. As Eve watches him, as her eyes go up to his, her smile fades- 
ADDISON What do you take me for? 
EVE (cautiously) I don't know what I take you for anything... 
ADDISON (moving away) It is possible - even conceivable - that you've confused me with that gang of backward children you've been playing tricks on - that you have the same contempt for me that you have for them? 
EVE I'm sure you mean something by that, Addison, but I don't know what... 
ADDISON Look closely, Eve, it's time you did. I am Addison deWitt. I'm nobody's fool. Least of all - yours. 
EVE I never intended you to be. 
ADDISON Yes, you did. You still do. 
Eve gets up, now. 
EVE I still don't know what you're getting at. Right now I want to take my nap. It's important that I- 
ADDISON (breaks in) - it's important right now that we talk. Killer to killer. 
EVE (wisely) Champion to champion. 
ADDISON Not with me, you're no champion. You're stepping way up in class. 
EVE Addison, will you please say what you have to say plainly and distinctly - and then get out so I can take my nap! 
ADDISON Very well, plainly and distinctly. Although I consider it unnecessary - because you know as well as I, what I am about to say. (they are now facing each other) Lloyd may leave Karen, but he will not leave Karen for you. 
EVE What do you mean by that? 
ADDISON More plainly and more distinctly? I Have not come to New Haven to see the play, discuss your dreams, or to pull the ivy from the walls of Yale! I have come to tell you that you will not marry Lloyd - or anyone else - because I will not permit it. 
EVE What have you got to do with it? 
ADDISON Everything. Because after tonight, you will belong to me. 
EVE I can't believe my ears... 
ADDISON A dull cliche. 
EVE Belong - to you? That sound medieval - something out of an old melodrama... 
ADDISON So does the history of the world for the past twenty years. I don't enjoy putting it as bluntly as this, frankly I had hoped that you would, somehow, have known - have taken it for granted that you and I... 
EVE ... taken it for granted? That you and I... 
She smiles. Then she chuckles, then laughs. A mistake. Addison slaps her sharply across the face. 
ADDISON (quietly) Remember as long as you live, never to laugh at me. At anything or anyone else - but never at me. 
Eve eyes him coldly, goes to the door, throws it open. 
EVE Get out! 
Addison walks to the door, closes it. 
ADDISON You're too short for that gesture. Besides, it went out with Mrs. Fiske. 
EVE Then if you won't get out, I'll have you thrown out. 
She goes to the phone. 
ADDISON Don't pick it up! Don't even put your hand on it... 
She doesn't. Her back is to him. Addison smiles. 
ADDISON Something told you to do as I say, didn't it? That instinct is worth millions, you can't buy it, cherish it, Eve. When that alarm goes off, go to your battle stations... 
He comes up behind her. Eve is tense and wary. 
ADDISON Your name is not Eve Harrington. It is Gertrude Slescynski. 
EVE What of it? 
ADDISON It is true that your parents were poor. They still are. And they would like to know how you are - and where. They haven't heard from you for three years... 
EVE (curtly) What of it? 
EVE My director - who demanded always a little more than my talent could provide- 
BILL, seated at the speakers' table. He has his award before him - a smaller one. He puts out a cigarette expressionlessly as the applause breaks out. 
EVE - but who taught me patiently and well... Bill Sampson. 
LLOYD sits beside Bill. He, too, has a smaller award. As Eve speaks, he throws her a brief glance. 
EVE'S VOICE And one, without whose great play and faith in me, this night would never have been. How can I repay Lloyd Richards? 
EVE waits for the applause to die. 
EVE Hoe can I repay the many others? So many, that I couldn't possibly name them all... 
ADDISON smiles approvingly. 
EVE'S VOICE ... whose help, guidance and advice have made this, the happiest night of my life, possible. 
EVE stares at the award for an instant, as if fighting for self-control. 
EVE Although I am going to Hollywood next week to make a film - do not think for a moment that I am leaving you. How could I? For my heart is here in the Theater - and three thousand miles are too far to be away from one's heart. I'll be back to claim it - and soon. That is, if you want me back. 
Another storm of applause. Much ad lib shouting as Bill and Lloyd are summoned to pose beside her for more pictures. People are thronging out. The Aged Actor shouts above the hubbub... 
AGED ACTOR A good night to all - and to all a good night! 
Eve disengages herself from the photographers, makes her way toward Addison's table... Bill and Lloyd follow. CAMERA FOLLOWS Lloyd to Karen. They kiss. He gives her the award. 
LLOYD For services rendered - beyond the whatever-it-is-of-duty, darling. 
Max bustles into the SHOT. 
MAX Come on! I'm the host, I gotta get home before the guests start stealing the liquor... 
She and Lloyd follow Max. Addison and Eve are on their way. Lloyd goes right by. Karen pauses at Eve. 
KAREN Congratulations, Eve. 
EVE Thank you, Karen. 
Karen goes. Eve is being constantly congratulated. Some ad lib about seeing her at Max's party... 
MAX (to Addison) I'm giving her a very high-class party. It ain't like a rehearsal, she don't have to be late. 
ADDISON As soon as the peasants stop pawing her. 
Max hurries out. Margo and Bill step into the SHOT. Eve turns from a well-wisher to face her. 
MARGO ... nice speech, Eve. But I wouldn't worry too much about your heart. You can always put that award where your heart ought to be. 
Eve looks at her wordlessly. Margo and Bill leave. Addison and Eve are alone. The tables about them are empty. Suddenly, her face becomes expressionless, her eyes dull... she glances at the table. 
EVE I don't suppose there's a drink left... 
ADDISON You can have one at Max's. 
EVE (sits) I don't think I'm going. 
ADDISON (sighs) Why not? 
EVE Because I don't want to. 
ADDISON (patiently) Max has gone to a great deal of trouble, it's going to be an elaborate party, and it's for you. 
EVE No, it's not. (she holds up the award) It's for this. 
ADDISON It's the same thing, isn't it? 
EVE Exactly. (she gives him the award) Here. Take it to the party instead of me. 
ADDISON You're being childish. 
A well-wisher rushes up to Eve with an "Eve, darling, I'm so happy!" Eve rises, thanks her graciously. Then she pulls her wrap over her shoulder. 
EVE I'm tired. I want to go home. 
ADDISON (curtly) Very well. I shall drop you and go on to the party. I have no intention of missing it... 
They exit from the room, now empty of everything but tables, waiters, and the usual banquet debris. 
EXT. PARK AVENUE - NIGHT 
Eve gets out of taxi in front of a fashionable apartment hotel. She doesn't say good night to Addison, she enters the hotel as the cab drives off. She hasn't the award with her. 
INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE EVE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Smart, but not gaudy. Eve crosses from the elevator to her apartment. She lets herself in. 
INT. EVE'S HOTEL APARTMENT - NIGHT 
A small foyer, from which one door leads to the leaving room, another to the bedroom. The bedroom and living room do not connect except through the foyer. 
All the lights are out. Eve turns them on in the foyer, the same as she enters the bedroom. There are some new trunks, in various stages of being packed. Eve tosses her wrap on the bed, goes through the foyer to the living room. 
She turns on the light in the living room. CAMERA FOLLOWS her to a smart small bar where she fixes a stiff drink. As she turns from the bar, she stares - starts in fright - and drops the drink. 
