AMADEUS 
"AMADEUS" 
by 
Peter Shaffer 
Final Draft 
INT. STAIRCASE OUTSIDE OLD SALIERI'S SALON - NIGHT - 1823 
Total darkness. We hear an old man's voice, distinct and in distress. It is OLD SALIERI. He uses a mixture of English and occasionally Italian. 
OLD SALIERI Mozart! Mozart! Mozart. Forgive me! Forgive your assassin! Mozart! 
A faint light illuminates the screen. Flickeringly, we see an eighteenth century balustrade and a flight of stone stairs. We are looking down into the wall of the staircase from the point of view of the landing. Up the stair is coming a branched candlestick held by Salieri's VALET. By his side is Salieri's COOK, bearing a large dish of sugared cakes and biscuits. Both men are desperately worried: the Valet is thin and middle-aged; the Cook, plump and Italian. It is very cold. They wear shawls over their night-dresses and clogs on their feet. They wheeze as they climb. The candles throw their shadows up onto the peeling walls of the house, which is evidently an old one and in bad decay. A cat scuttles swiftly between their bare legs, as they reach the salon door. 
The Valet tries the handle. It is locked. Behind it the voice goes on, rising in volume. 
OLD SALIERI Show some mercy! I beg you. I beg you! Show mercy to a guilty man! 
The Valet knocks gently on the door. The voice stops. 
VALET Open the door, Signore! Please! Be good now! We've brought you something special. Something you're going to love. 
Silence. 
VALET Signore Salieri! Open the door. Come now. Be good! 
The voice of Old Salieri continues again, further off now, and louder. We hear a noise as if a window is being opened. 
OLD SALIERI Mozart! Mozart! I confess it! Listen! I confess! 
The two servants look at each other in alarm. Then the Valet hands the candlestick to the Cook and takes a sugared cake from the dish, scrambling as quickly as he can back down the stairs. 
EXT. THE STREET OUTSIDE SALIERI'S HOUSE - VIENNA - NIGHT 
The street is filled with people: ten cabs with drivers, five children, fifteen adults, two doormen, fifteen dancing couples and a sled and three dogs. It is a windy night. Snow is falling and whirling about. People are passing on foot, holding their cloaks tightly around them. Some of them are revelers in fancy dress: they wear masks on their faces or hanging around their necks, as if returning from parties. Now they are glancing up at the facade of the old house. The window above the street is open and Old Salieri stands there calling to the sky: a sharp-featured, white-haired Italian over seventy years old, wearing a stained dressing gown. 
OLD SALIERI Mozart! Mozart! I cannot bear it any longer! I confess! I confess what I did! I'm guilty! I killed you! Sir I confess! I killed you! 
The door of the house bursts open. The Valet hobbles out, holding the sugared cake. The wind catches at his shawl. 
OLD SALIERI Mozart, perdonami! Forgive your assassin! Pietˆ! Pietˆ! Forgive your assassin! Forgive me! Forgive! Forgive! 
VALET (looking up to the window) That's all right, Signore! He heard you! He forgave you! He wants you to go inside now and shut the window! 
Old Salieri stares down at him. Some of the passersby have now stopped and are watching this spectacle. 
VALET Come on, Signore! Look what I have for you! I can't give it to you from down here, can I? 
Old Salieri looks at him in contempt. Then he turns away back into the room, shutting the window with a bang. Through the glass, the old man stares down at the group of onlookers in the street. They stare back at him in confusion. 
BYSTANDER Who is that? 
VALET No one, sir. He'll be all right. Poor man. He's a little unhappy, you know. 
He makes a sign indicating 'crazy,' and goes back inside the house. The onlookers keep staring. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LANDING OUTSIDE OLD SALIERI'S SALON - NIGHT 
The Cook is standing holding the candlestick in one hand, the dish of cakes in the other. The Valet arrives, panting. 
VALET Did he open? 
The Cook, scared, shakes his head: no. The Valet again knocks on the door. 
VALET Here I am, Signore. Now open the door. 
He eats the sugared cake in his hand, elaborately and noisily. 
VALET Mmmm - this is good! This is the most delicious thing I ever ate, believe me! Signore, you don't know what you're missing! Mmmm! 
We hear a thump from inside the bedroom. 
VALET Now that's enough, Signore! Open! 
We hear a terrible, throaty groaning. 
VALET If you don't open this door, we're going to eat everything. There'll be nothing left for you. And I'm not going to bring you anything more. 
He looks down. From under the door we see a trickle of blood flowing. In horror, the two men stare at it. The dish of cakes falls from the Cook's hand and shatters. 
He sets the candlestick down on the floor. Both servants run at the door frantically - once, twice, three times - and the frail lock gives. The door flies open. 
Immediately, the stormy, frenzied opening of Mozart's Symphony No. 25 (the Little G Minor) begins. We see what the servants see. 
INT. OLD SALIERI'S SALON - NIGHT 
Old Salieri lies on the floor in a pool of blood, an open razor in his hand. He has cut his throat but is still alive. He gestures at them. They run to him. Barely, we glimpse the room - an old chair, old tables piled with books, a forte- piano, a chamber-pot on the floor - as the Valet and the Cook struggle to lift their old Master, and bind his bleeding throat with a napkin. 
INT. BALLROOM - NIGHT 
Twenty-five dancing couples, fifty guests, ten servants, full orchestra. 
As the music slows a little, we see a Masquerade Ball in progress. A crowded room of dancers is executing the slow portion of a dance fashionable in the early 1820's. 
EXT. STREET OUTSIDE SALIERI'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
As the fast music returns, we see Old Salieri being carried out of his house on a stretcher by two attendants, and placed in a horse-drawn wagon under the supervision of a middle- aged doctor in a tall hat. This is DOCTOR GULDEN. He gets in beside his patient. The driver whips up the horse, and the wagon dashes off through the still-falling snow. 
MONTAGE: 
EXT. FOUR STREETS OF VIENNA AND 
INT. THE WAGON - NIGHT 
The wagon is galloping through the snowy streets of the city. Inside the conveyance we see Old Salieri wrapped in blankets, half-conscious, being held by the hospital attendants. Doctor Gulden stares at him grimly. The wagon arrives outside the General Hospital of Vienna. 
VOGLER For God's sake, my son, if you have anything to confess, do it now! Give yourself some peace! 
A further pause. 
VOGLER Do you hear me? 
OLD SALIERI He was murdered, Father! Mozart! Cruelly murdered. 
Pause. 
VOGLER (almost whispering) Yes? Did you do it? 
Suddenly Old Salieri turns to him, a look of extreme innocence. 
OLD SALIERI He was my idol! I can't remember a time when I didn't know his name! When I was only fourteen he was already famous. Even in Legnago - the tiniest town in Italy - I knew of him. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. A SMALL TOWN SQUARE IN LOMBARDY, ITALY - DAY - 1780'S 
There are twelve children and twenty adults in the square. We see the fourteen-year-old Salieri blindfolded, playing a game of Blindman's Bluff with other Italian children, running about in the bright sunshine and laughing. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) I was still playing childish games when he was playing music for kings and emperors. Even the Pope in Rome! 
CUT TO: 
INT. A SALON IN THE VATICAN - DAY - 1780'S 
We see the six-year-old MOZART, also blindfolded, seated in a gilded chair on a pile of books, playing the harpsichord for the POPE and a suite of CARDINALS and other churchmen. Beside the little boy stands LEOPOLD, his father, smirking with pride. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) I admit I was jealous when I heard the tales they told about him. Not of the brilliant little prodigy himself, but of his father, who had taught him everything. 
The piece finishes. Leopold lowers the lid of the harpsichord and lifts up his little son to stand on it. Mozart removes the blindfold to show a pale little face with staring eyes. Both father and son bow. A Papal Chamberlain presents Leopold with a gold snuff box whilst the cardinals decorously applaud. Over this scene Old Salieri speaks. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) My father did not care for music. He wanted me only to be a merchant, like himself. As anonymous as he was. When I told how I wished I could be like Mozart, he would say, Why? Do you want to be a trained monkey? Would you like me to drag you around Europe doing tricks like a circus freak? How could I tell him what music meant to me? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. A COUNTRY CHURCH IN NORTH ITALY - DAY - 1780'S 
Serene music of the Italian Baroque - Pergolesi's Stabat Mater - sung by a choir of boys with organ accompaniment. We see the outside of the 17th-century church sitting in the wide landscape of Lombardy: sunlit fields, a dusty, white road, poplar trees. 
INT. THE CHURCH AT LEGNAGO - DAY - 1780'S 
The music continues and swells. We see the twelve-year-old Salieri seated between his plump and placid parents in the congregation, listening in rapture. His father is a heavy- looking, self-approving man, obviously indifferent to the music. A large and austere Christ on the cross hangs over the altar. Candles burn below his image. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) Even then a spray of sounded notes could make me dizzy, almost to falling. 
The boy falls forward on his knees. So do his parents and the other members of the congregation. He stares up at Christ who stares back at him. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) Whilst my father prayed earnestly to God to protect commerce, I would offer up secretly the proudest prayer a boy could think of. Lord, make me a great composer! Let me celebrate your glory through music - and be celebrated myself! Make me famous through the world, dear God! Make me immortal! After I die let people speak my name forever with love for what I wrote! In return I vow I will give you my chastity - my industry, my deepest humility, every hour of my life. And I will help my fellow man all I can. Amen and amen! 
The music swells to a crescendo. The candles flare. We see the Christ through the flames looking at the boy benignly. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) And do you know what happened? A miracle! 
INT. DINING ROOM IN THE SALIERI HOUSE - DAY - 1780'S 
CU, a large cooked fish on a thick china plate. Camera pulls back to show the Salieri family at dinner. Father Salieri sits at the head of the table, a napkin tucked into his chin. Mother Salieri is serving the fish into portions and handing them round. Two maiden aunts are in attendance, wearing black, and of course the young boy. Father Salieri receives his plate of fish and starts to eat greedily. Suddenly there is a gasp - he starts to choke violently on a fish bone. All the women get up and crowd around him, thumping and pummeling him, but it is in vain. Father Salieri collapses. 
INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON - 1823 
OLD SALIERI Suddenly he was dead. Just like that! And my life changed forever. My mother said, Go. Study music if you really want to. Off with you! And off I went as quick as I could and never saw Italy again. Of course, I knew God had arranged it all; that was obvious. One moment I was a frustrated boy in an obscure little town. The next I was here, in Vienna, city of musicians, sixteen years old and studying under Gluck! Gluck, Father. Do you know who he was? The greatest composer of his time. And he loved me! That was the wonder. He taught me everything he knew. And when I was ready, introduced me personally to the Emperor! Emperor Joseph - the musical king!  Within a few years I was his court composer. Wasn't that incredible? Imperial Composer to His Majesty! Actually the man had no ear at all, but what did it matter? He adored my music, that was enough. Night after night I sat right next to the Emperor of Austria, playing duets with him, correcting the royal sight-reading. Tell me, if you had been me, wouldn't you have thought God had accepted your vow? And believe me, I honoured it. I was a model of virtue. I kept my hands off women, worked hours every day teaching students, many of them for free, sitting on endless committees to help poor musicians - work and work and work, that was all my life. And it was wonderful! Everybody liked me. I liked myself. I was the most successful musician in Vienna. And the happiest. Till he came. Mozart. 
CUT TO: 
INT. THE ARCHBISHOP OF SALZBURG'S RESIDENCE - VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S 
A grand room crowded with guests. A small group of Gypsy musicians is playing in the background. Thirteen members of the Archbishop's orchestra - all wind players, complete with 18th-century wind instruments: elaborate-looking bassoons, basset horns, etc. and wearing their employer's livery - are laying out music on stands at one end of the room. At the other end is a large gilded chair, bearing the arms of the ARCHBISHOP OF SALZBURG. A throng of people is standing, talking, and preparing to sit upon the rows of waiting chairs to hear a concert. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) One day he came to Vienna to play some of his music at the residence of his employer, the Prince-Archbishop of Salzburg. Eagerly I went there to seek him out. That night changed my life. 
We see Salieri, age thirty-one, a neat, carefully turned-cut man in decent black clothes and clean white linen, walking through the crowd of guests. We follow him. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) As I went through the salon, I played a game with myself. This man had written his first concerto at the age of four; his first symphony at seven; a full-scale opera at twelve. Did it show? Is talent like that written on the face? 
We see shots of assorted young men staring back at Salieri as he moves through the crowd. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) Which one of them could he be? 
Some of the men recognize Salieri and bow respectfully. Then suddenly a servant bearing a large tray of cakes and pastries stalks past. Instantly riveted by the sight of such delights, Salieri follows him out of the Grand Salon. 
INT. A PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S 
The servant marches along bearing his tray of pastries aloft. Salieri follows him. 
The servant turns into: 
INT. BUFFET ROOM IN THE PALACE - DAY - 1780'S 
Salieri's POV: several tables, dressed to the floor with cloths are loaded with many plates of confectionery. It is, in fact, Salieri's idea of paradise! The servant puts his tray down on one of the tables and withdraws from the room. 
INT. A PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S 
Salieri turns away so as not to be noticed by the servant. As soon as the man disappears, Salieri sneaks into the buffet room. 
INT. BUFFET ROOM IN THE PALACE - DAY - 1780'S 
Salieri enters the room and looks about him cautiously. He is salivating with anticipation as he stares at the feast of sweet things. His attention is attracted in particular by a huge pile of dark chocolate balls arranged in the shape of a pineapple. He reaches out a hand to steal one of the balls, but at the same moment he hears giggling coming toward him. He ducks down behind the pastry table. 
A girl - CONSTANZE - rushes into the room. She runs straight across it and hides herself behind one of the tables. 
After a beat of total silence, MOZART runs into the room, stops, and looks around. He is age twenty-six, wearing a fine wig and a brilliant coat with the insignia of the Archbishop of Salzburg upon it. He is puzzled; Constanze has disappeared. 
Baffled, he turns and is about to leave the room, when Constanze suddenly squeaks from under the cloth like a tiny mouse. Instantly Mozart drops to all fours and starts crawling across the floor, meowing and hissing like a naughty cat. Watched by an astonished Salieri, Mozart disappears under the cloth and obviously pounces upon Constanze. We hear a high-pitched giggle, which is going to characterize Mozart throughout the film. 
CUT TO: 
INT. PALACE GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S 
The throng is mostly seated. The musicians are in their places, holding their various exotic-looking wind instruments; the candles are all lit. A Majordomo appears and bangs his staff on the floor for attention. Immediately COLLOREDO, Prince-Archbishop of Salzburg enters. He is a small self- important figure of fifty in a wig, surmounted by a scarlet skullcap. He is followed by his Chamberlain, the Count ARCO. Everyone stands. The Archbishop goes to his throne and sits. His guests sit also. Arco gives the signal to start the music. Nothing happens. Instead, a wind musician gets up, approaches the Chamberlain and whispers in his ear. Arco in turn whispers to the Archbishop. 
INT. PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S 
The music is louder. Mozart hastens towards the Grand Salon away from the buffet room, adjusting his dress as he goes. 
INT. GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S 
The opening of the Serenade is being tentatively conducted by the leader of the wind-musicians. Guests turn around as Mozart appears - bowing to the Archbishop - and walks with an attempt at dignity to the dais where the wind band is playing. The leader yields his place to the composer and Mozart smoothly takes over conducting. 
Constanze, deeply embarrassed, sneaks into the room and seats herself at the back. 
INT. PALACE BUFFET ROOM - DAY - 1780'S 
The music fades down. Salieri stands shocked from his inadvertent eavesdropping. After a second he moves almost in a trance toward the door; the music dissolves. 
INT. GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S 
Mozart is conducting the Adagio from his Serenade (K. 361), guiding the thirteen wind instrumentalists. The squeezebox opening of the movement begins. Salieri appears at the door at the back of the salon. He stares in disbelief at Mozart. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) So that was he! That giggling, dirty- minded creature I'd just seen crawling on the floor. Mozart. The phenomenon whose legend had haunted my youth. Impossible. 
The music swells up and Salieri listens to it with eyes closed - amazed, transported - suddenly engulfed by the sound. Finally it fades down and away and changes into applause. Salieri opens his eyes. 
The audience is clearly delighted. Mozart bows to them, also delighted. Colloredo rises abruptly, and without looking at Mozart or applauding and leaves the Salon. Count Arco approaches the composer. Mozart turns to him, radiant. 
ARCO Follow me, please. The Archbishop would like a word. 
MOZART Certainly! 
He follows Arco out of the room, through a throng of admirers. 
INT. ANOTHER PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S 
Mozart and Arco walk side by side. They pass Salieri who is staring at Mozart in fascination. As they disappear, he steals toward the music stands, unable to help himself. 
MOZART Well, I think that went off remarkably well, don't you? 
ARCO Indeed. 
MOZART These Viennese certainly know good music when they hear it. 
ARCO His Grace is very angry with you. 
MOZART What do you mean? 
They arrive at the door of Colloredo's private apartment. 
ARCO You are to come in here and ask his pardon. 
Arco opens the door. 
INT. ARCHBISHOP'S PRIVATE ROOM - DAY - 1780'S 
The Archbishop is sitting, chatting to quests. Among them are several ladies. Arco approaches him obsequiously. 
ARCO Your Grace. 
COLLOREDO Ah, Mozart. Why? 
MOZART Why what, sir? 
COLLOREDO Why do I have to be humiliated in front of my guests by one of my own servants? 
MOZART Humiliated? 
COLLOREDO How much provocation am I to endure from you? The more license I allow you, the more you take. 
The company watches this scene, deeply interested. 
MOZART If His Grace is not satisfied with me, he can dismiss me. 
COLLOREDO I wish you to return immediately to Salzburg. Your father is waiting for you there patiently. I will speak to you further when I come. 
MOZART No, Your Grace! I mean with all humility, no. I would rather you dismissed me. It's obvious I don't satisfy. 
COLLOREDO Then try harder, Mozart. I have no intention of dismissing you. You will remain in my service and learn your place. Go now. 
He extends his hand to be kissed. Mozart does it with a furious grace, then leaves the room. As he opens the door we see: 
INT. PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S 
A group of people who have attended the concert, among them Constanze, are standing outside the private apartment. At sight of the composer they break into sustained applause. Mozart is suddenly delighted. He throws the door wide open 
so that the guests can see into the private apartment where the Archbishop sits - and he can see them. Colloredo is clearly discomfited by this reception of his employee. He smiles and bows uneasily, as they include him in the small ovation. 
Mozart stands in the corridor, out of the Archbishop's line of sight, bowing and giggling, and encouraging the applause for the Archbishop with conducting gestures. Suddenly irritated, Colloredo signs to Arco, who steps forward and shuts the door, ending the applause. 
INT. PALACE GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S 
Salieri, in this vast room, is standing and looking at the full score of the Serenade. He turns the pages back to the slow movement. Instantly, we again hear its lyrical strains. 
CU, Salieri, reading the score of the Adagio in helpless fascination. The music is played against his description of it. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) Extraordinary! On the page it looked nothing. The beginning simple, almost comic. Just a pulse - bassoons and basset horns - like a rusty squeezebox. Then suddenly - high above it - an oboe, a single note, hanging there unwavering, till a clarinet took over and sweetened it into a phrase of such delight! This was no composition by a performing monkey! This was a music I'd never heard. Filled with such longing, such unfulfillable longing, it had me trembling. It seemed to me that I was hearing a voice of God. 
Suddenly the music snaps off. Mozart stands before him as he lays down the score. 
MOZART Excuse me! 
He takes the score, bows, and struts briskly out of the room. Salieri stares uncomprehendingly after the jaunty little figure. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) But why? 
INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823 
OLD SALIERI Why?  Would God choose an obscene child to be His instrument? It was not to be believed! This piece had to be an accident. It had to be! 
INT. PALACE DINING ROOM - DAY - 1780'S 
At the table sits the EMPEROR JOSEPH II, eating his frugal dinner and sipping goat's milk. He is an intelligent, dapper man of forty, wearing a military uniform. Around him but standing, are his Chamberlain, JOHANN VON STRACK: stiff and highly correct. COUNT ORSINI-ROSENBERG: a corpulent man of sixty, highly conscious of his position as Director of the Opera. BARON VON SWIETEN, the Imperial Librarian: a grave but kindly and educated man in his mid-fifties. FIRST KAPELLMEISTER GIUSEPPE BONNO: very Italian, cringing and time-serving, aged about seventy. And Salieri, wearing decorous black, as usual. 
At a side-table, two Imperial secretaries, using quill pens and inkstands, write down everything of importance that is said. 
SALIERI Majesty, I hope you won't think it improper, but I have written a little March of Welcome in his honour. 
He produces a paper. 
JOSEPH What a charming idea. May I see? 
SALIERI (handing it over) It's just a trifle, of course. 
JOSEPH May I try it? 
SALIERI Majesty. 
The Emperor goes to the instrument, sits and plays the first bars of it. Quite well. 
JOSEPH Delightful, Court Composer. Would you permit me to play it as he comes in? 
SALIERI You do me too much honour, Sire. 
JOSEPH Let's have some fun. (to the waiting Majordomo) Bring in Herr Mozart, please. But slowly, slowly. I need a minute to practice. 
The Majordomo bows and goes. The Emperor addresses himself to the march. He plays a wrong note. 
SALIERI A-flat, Majesty. 
JOSEPH Ah-ha! 
INT. PALACE CORRIDOR - VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S 
Taking his instructions literally, the Majordomo is marching very slowly toward the salon door. He is followed by a bewildered Mozart, dressed very stylishly and wearing one of the wigs from the perruqier. 
INT. ROYAL PALACE GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S 
Joseph finishes the march. The door opens. 
MAJORDOMO Herr Mozart. 
Mozart comes in eagerly. Immediately the march begins, played by His Majesty. All the courtiers stand, listening with admiration. Joseph plays well, but applies himself fiercely to the manuscript. Mozart, still bewildered, regards the scene, but does not seem to pay attention to the music itself. It finishes and all clap obsequiously. 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG Bravo, Your Majesty! 
VON STRACK Well done, Sire! 
The Emperor rises, pleased with himself. He snatches the manuscript off the stand and holds it in his hand for the rest of the scene. 
JOSEPH Gentlemen, gentlemen, a little less enthusiasm, I beg you. Ah, Mozart. 
He extends his hand. Mozart throws himself to his knees, and to Joseph's discomfort kisses the royal hand with fervour. 
MOZART Your Majesty! 
JOSEPH No, no, please! It is not a holy relic. (raising Mozart up) You know we have met already? In this very room. Perhaps you won't remember it, you were only six years old. (to the others) He was giving the most brilliant little concert here. As he got off the stool, he slipped and fell. My sister Antoinette helped him up herself, and do you know what he did? Jumped straight into her arms and said, Will you marry me, yes or no? 
Embarrassed, Mozart bursts into a wild giggle. Joseph helps him out. 
JOSEPH You know all these gentlemen, I'm sure. 
Von Strack and Bonno nod. 
JOSEPH The Baron Von Swieten. 
VON SWIETEN I'm a great admirer of yours, young man. Welcome. 
MOZART Oh, thank you. 
JOSEPH The Director of our Opera. Count Orsini-Rosenberg. 
MOZART (bowing excitedly) Oh sir, yes! The honour is mine. Absolutely. 
Orsini-Rosenberg nods without enthusiasm. 
JOSEPH And here is our illustrious Court Composer, Herr Salieri. 
SALIERI (taking his hand) Finally! Such an immense joy. Diletto straordinario! 
MOZART I know your work well, Signore. Do you know I actually composed some variations on a melody of yours? 
SALIERI Really? 
MOZART Mio caro Adone. 
SALIERI Ah! 
MOZART A funny little tune, but it yielded some good things. 
JOSEPH And now he has returned the compliment. Herr Salieri composed that March of Welcome for you. 
MOZART (speaking expertly) Really? Oh, grazie, Signore! Sono commosso! E un onore per mo eccezionale. Compositore brilliante e famossissimo! 
He bows elaborately. Salieri inclines himself, dryly. 
SALIERI My pleasure. 
JOSEPH Well, there it is. Now to business. Young man, we are going to commission an opera from you. What do you say? 
MOZART Majesty! 
JOSEPH (to the courtiers) Did we vote in the end for German or Italian? 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG Well, actually, Sire, if you remember, we did finally incline to Italian. 
VON STRACK Did we? 
VON SWIETEN I don't think it was really decided, Director. 
MOZART Oh, German! German! Please let it be German. 
JOSEPH Why so? 
MOZART Because I've already found the most wonderful libretto! 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG Oh? Have I seen it? 
SALIERI Really? What else did he tell you today? Give me some gossip. 
CAVALIERI Well, I heard you met Herr Mozart. 
SALIERI Oh? News travels fast in Vienna. 
CAVALIERI And he's been commissioned to write an opera. Is it true? 
SALIERI Yes. 
CAVALIERI Is there a part for me? 
SALIERI No. 
CAVALIERI How do you know? 
SALIERI Well even if there is, I don't think you want to get involved with this one. 
CAVALIERI Why not? 
SALIERI Well, do you know where it's set, my dear? 
CAVALIERI Where? 
SALIERI In a harem. 
CAVALIERI What's that? 
SALIERI A brothel. 
CAVALIERI Oh! 
SALIERI A Turkish brothel. 
CAVALIERI Turkish? Oh, if it's Turkish, that's different. I want to be in it. 
SALIERI My dear, it will hardly enhance your reputation to be celebrated throughout Vienna as a singing prostitute for a Turk. 
He seats himself at the forte-piano. 
CAVALIERI Oh. Well perhaps you could introduce us anyway. 
SALIERI Perhaps. 
He plays a chord. She sings a scale, expertly. He strikes another chord. She starts another scale, then breaks off. 
CAVALIERI What does he look like? 
SALIERI You might be disappointed. 
CAVALIERI Why? 
SALIERI Looks and talent don't always go together, Katherina. 
CAVALIERI (airily) Looks don't concern me, Maestro. Only talent interests a woman of taste. 
He strikes the chord again, firmly. Cavalieri sings her next scale, then another one, and another one, doing her exercises in earnest. As she hits a sustained high note the orchestral accompaniment in the middle of Martern Aller Arten from Il Seraglio comes in underneath and the music changes from exercises to the exceedingly florid aria. 
We DISSOLVE on the singer's face, and she is suddenly not merely turbaned, but painted and dressed totally in a Turkish manner, and we are on: 
INT. OPERA STAGE - VIENNA - 1780'S 
The heroine of the opera (Cavalieri) is in full cry addressing the Pasha with scorn and defiance. 
The house is full. Watching the performance - which is conducted by Mozart from the clavier in the midst of the orchestra - we note Von Strack, Orsini-Rosenberg, Bonno and Von Swieten, all grouped around the Emperor, in a box. 
In another box we see an overdressed, middle-aged woman and three girls, one of whom is Constanze. This is the formidable MADAME WEBER and her three daughters, Constanze, JOSEFA and SOPHIE. All are enraptured by the spectacle and Madame Weber is especially enraptured by being there at all. Not so, Salieri, who sits in another box, coldly watching the stage. 
Cavalieri is singing Martern aller Arten from the line Doch du bist entschlossen. 
CAVALIERI Since you are determined, Since you are determined, Calmly, with no ferment, Welcome - every pain and woe. Bind me then - compel me! Bind me then - compel me! Hurt me. Break me! Kill me! At last I shall be freed by death! 
After a few moments of this showy aria, with the composer and the singer staring at each other - he conducting elaborately for her benefit, and she following his beat with rapturous eyes - the music fades, and Salieri speaks over it. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) There she was. I had no idea where they met - or how - yet there she stood on stage for all to see. Showing off like the greedy songbird she was. Ten minutes of ghastly scales and arpeggios, whizzing up and down like fireworks at a fairground. 
Music up again for the last 30 bars of the aria. 
CAVALIERI (singing) Be freed at last by death! Be freed at last by death! At last I shall be freed By! Death! 
Before the orchestral coda ends, cut to: 
INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823 
Through the window we see that night has fallen. 
OLD SALIERI Understand, I was in love with the girl. Or at least in lust. I wasn't a saint. It took me the most tremendous effort to be faithful to my vow. I swear to you I never laid a finger on her. All the same, I couldn't bear to think of anyone else touching her - least of all the Creature. 
CUT BACK TO: 
INT.   THE OPERA HOUSE - VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S 
The brilliant Turkish finale of Seraglio bursts over us. All the cast is lined up on stage. Mozart is conducting with happy excitement. 
CAST OF SERAGLIO (singing) Pasha Selim May he Live forever! Ever, ever, ever, ever! Honour to his regal name! Honour to his regal name! May his noble brow emblazon Glory, fortune, joy and fame! Honour be to Pasha Selim Honour to his regal name! Honour to his regal name! 
The curtains fall. Much applause. The Emperor claps vigorously and - following his lead - so do the courtiers. The curtains part. Mozart applauds the singers who applaud him back. He skips up onto the stage amongst them. The curtains fall again as they all bow. In the auditorium, the chandeliers descend, filling it with light. 
INT. OPERA HOUSE STAGE -  VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S 
The curtains are down, and an excited hubbub of singers in costume surround Mozart and Cavalieri, all excited and chattering. Suddenly a hush. The Emperor is seen approaching from the wings, lit by flunkies holding candles. Von Strack, Orsini-Rosenberg and Von Swieten, amongst others, follow him. Also Salieri. The singers line up. Joseph stops at Cavalieri who makes a deep curtsey. 
JOSEPH Bravo, Madame. You are an ornament to our stage. 
CAVALIERI Majesty. 
JOSEPH (to Salieri) And to you, Court Composer. Your pupil has done you great credit. 
INT. BACKSTAGE CORRIDOR -  VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S 
MADAME WEBER Let us pass, please! Let us pass at once! We're with the Emperor. 
SALIERI (bowing) Sire. 
JOSEPH Well. There it is. 
He rides on. The groom releases her horse's head, and runs on after the Princess. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CHAMBERLAIN VON STRACK'S STUDY - DAY - 1780'S 
Von Strack sits stiffly behind his gilded desk. Mozart stands before him, trembling with anger. 
MOZART What is this, Herr Chamberlain? 
VON STRACK What is what? 
MOZART Why do I have to submit samples of my work to some stupid committee? Just to teach a sixteen-year-old girl. 
VON STRACK Because His Majesty wishes it. 
MOZART Is the Emperor angry with me? 
VON STRACK On the contrary. 
MOZART Then why doesn't he simply appoint me to the post? 
VON STRACK Mozart, you are not the only composer in Vienna. 
MOZART No, but I'm the best. 
VON STRACK A little modesty would suit you better. 
MOZART Who is on this committee? 
VON STRACK Kapellmeister Bonno, Count Orsini- Rosenberg and Court Composer Salieri. 
MOZART Naturally, the Italians! Of course! Always the Italians! 
VON STRACK Mozart - 
MOZART They hate my music. It terrifies them. The only sound Italians understand is banality. Tonic and dominant, tonic and dominant, from here to Resurrection! (singing angrily) Ba-ba! Ba-ba! Ba-ba! Ba-ba! Anything else is morbid. 
VON STRACK Mozart - 
MOZART Show them one interesting modulation and they faint. Ohime! Morbidezza! Morbidezza! Italians are musical idiots and you want them to judge my music! 
VON STRACK Look, young man, the issue is simple. If you want this post, you must submit your stuff in the same way as all your colleagues. 
MOZART Must I? Well, I won't! I tell you straight: I will not! 
CUT TO: 
INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S 
The room is very small and untidy. Constanze is marching up and down it, upset. Mozart is lying on the bed. 
CONSTANZE I think you're mad! You're really mad! 
MOZART Oh, leave me alone. 
CONSTANZE One royal pupil and the whole of Vienna will come flocking. We'd be set up for life! 
MOZART They'll come anyway. They love me here. 
CONSTANZE No, they will not. I know how things work in this city. 
MOZART Oh yes? You always know everything. 
CONSTANZE Well, I'm not borrowing any more money from my mother, and that's that! 
MOZART You borrowed money from your mother? 
CONSTANZE Yes! 
MOZART Well, don't do that again! 
CONSTANZE How are we going to live, Wolfi? Do you want me to go into the streets and beg? 
MOZART Don't be stupid. 
CONSTANZE All they want to see is your work. What's wrong with that? 
MOZART Shut up! Just shut up! I don't need them. 
CONSTANZE This isn't pride. It's sheer stupidity! 
She glares at him, almost in tears. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SALIERI'S MUSIC ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON - 1780'S 
Salieri is giving a lesson to a girl student, who is singing the Italian art song, Caro Mio Ben. 
There is a knock on the door. 
SALIERI Yes. 
A SERVANT enters. 
SERVANT Excuse me, sir, there is a lady who insists on talking to you. 
SALIERI Who is she? 
SERVANT She didn't say. But she says it's urgent. 
SALIERI (to the pupil) Excuse me, my dear. 
Salieri goes into the salon. 
CUT TO: 
CONSTANZE Oh, thank you, sir! 
Overjoyed, she stops and kisses his hand. He raises her - and then clasps her to him clumsily. She pushes herself away. 
SALIERI Come back tonight. 
CONSTANZE Tonight? 
SALIERI Alone. 
CONSTANZE What for? 
SALIERI Some service deserves service in return. No? 
CONSTANZE What do you mean? 
SALIERI Isn't it obvious? 
They stare at one another: Constanze in total disbelief. 
SALIERI It's a post all Vienna seeks. If you want it for your husband, come tonight. 
CONSTANZE But! I'm a married woman! 
SALIERI Then don't. It's up to you. Not to be vague, that is the price. 
He glares at her. 
SALIERI Yes. 
He rings a silver bell for a servant and abruptly leaves the roam. Constanze stares after him, horrified. 
The servant enters. Shocked and stunned, Constanze goes down an her knees and starts picking up the music from the floor. 
CUT TO: 
INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823 
CU, Father Vogler, horrified. 
OLD SALIERI Yes, Father. Yes! So much for my vow of chastity. What did it matter? Good, patient, hard-working, chaste - what did it matter? Had goodness made me a good composer? I realized it absolutely then - that moment: goodness is nothing in the furnace of art. And I was nothing to God. 
VOGLER (crying out) You cannot say that! 
OLD SALIERI No? Was Mozart a good man? 
VOGLER God's ways are not yours. And you are not here to question Him. Offer him the salt of penitence. He will give you back the bread of eternal life. He is all merciful. That is all you need to know. 
OLD SALIERI All I ever wanted was to sing to Him. That's His doing, isn't it? He gave me that longing - then made me mute. Why? Tell me that. If He didn't want me to serve Him with music, why implant the desire, like a lust in my body, then deny me the talent? Go on, tell me! Speak for Him! 
VOGLER My son, no one can speak for God. 
OLD SALIERI Oh? I thought you did so every day. So speak now. Answer me! 
VOGLER I do not claim to unravel the mysteries. I treasure them. As you should. 
OLD SALIERI (impatiently) Oh yes, yes, yes, yes, yes! Always the same stale answers! (intimately to the priest) There is no God of Mercy, Father. Just a God of torture. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SALIERI'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S 
Salieri sits at his desk, staring up at the cross. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) Evening came to that room. I sat there not knowing whether the girl would return or not. I prayed as I'd never prayed before. 
SALIERI Dear God, enter me now. Fill me with one piece of true music. One piece with your breath in it, so I know that you love me. Please. Just one. Show me one sign of your favour, and I will show mine to Mozart and his wife. I will get him the royal position, and if she comes, I'll receive her with all respect and send her home in joy. Enter me! Enter me! Please! Te imploro. 
Long, long silence. Salieri stares at the cross. Christ stares back at him impassively. Finally in this silence we hear a faint knocking at the door. Salieri stirs himself. A servant appears. 
SERVANT That lady is back, sir. 
SALIERI Show her in. Then go to bed. 
The Servant bows and leaves. We follow him through: 
INT. MUSIC ROOM IN SALIERI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - 1780'S 
The Servant crosses it and enters: 
INT. SALON IN SALIERI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - 1780'S 
Constanze is sitting on an upright chair, veiled as before, the portfolio of music on her lap. Through the far door leading from the hall, another servant is peering at her. The first servant joins him and shuts the door on the girl, leaving her alone. 
We stay with her. The clock ticks on the mantelpiece. We hear an old carriage pass in the street below. Nervously she lifts her veil and looks about her. 
Suddenly Salieri appears from the music room. He is pale and very tight. They regard each other. She smiles and rises to greet him, affecting a relaxed and warm manner, as if to put him at his ease. 
CONSTANZE Well, I'm here. My husband has gone to a concert. He didn't think I would enjoy it. 
A pause. 
CONSTANZE I do apologize for this afternoon. I behaved like a silly girl. Where shall we go? 
SALIERI What? 
CONSTANZE Should we stay here? It's a charming room. I love these candlesticks. Were they here earlier? I didn't notice them I suppose I was too nervous. 
As she talks, she extinguishes the candles in a pair of Venetian candelabra and subsequently other candles around the room. 
CONSTANZE Wolfgang was given some candlesticks by King George in England, but they were only wood. Oh, excuse me. Let's not talk about him. What do you think of this? It's real lace. Brussels. 
She turns and takes off her shawl. 
CONSTANZE Well, it's much too good for every day. I keep saying to Wolfi, don't be so extravagant. Presents are lovely, but we can't afford them. It doesn't do any good. The more I tell him, the more he spends. Oh, excuse me! There I go again. 
She picks up the portfolio. 
CONSTANZE Do you still want to look at this? Or don't we need to bother anymore? I imagine we don't, really. 
She looks at him inquiringly, and drops the portfolio on the floor; pages of music pour out of it. Instantly we hear a massive chord, and the great Qui Tollis from the Mass in C Minor fills the room. To its grand and weighty sound, Constanze starts to undress, watched by the horrified Salieri. Between him and her, music is an active presence, hurting and baffling him. He opens his mouth in distress. The music pounds in his head. The candle flickers over her as she removes her clothes and prepares for his embrace. Suddenly he cries out. 
JOSEPH Of course not. 
SALIERI I have to tell you, Mozart is not entirely to be trusted alone with young ladies. 
JOSEPH Really? 
SALIERI As a matter of fact, one of my own pupils - a very young singer - told me she was - er - well! 
JOSEPH Yes? 
SALIERI Molested, Majesty. Twice, in the course of the same lesson. 
A pause. 
JOSEPH Ah-ha. Well. There it is. 
INT. SALIERI'S HOUSE - STAIRCASE - VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S 
Salieri has just returned from the palace and is coming up the staircase. He is met by his servant. 
SERVANT Sir, there is a Herr Mozart waiting for you in the salon. 
Salieri is plainly alarmed. 
SALIERI What does he want? 
SERVANT He didn't say, sir. I told him I didn't know when you would be back, but he insisted on waiting. 
SALIERI Come with me. And stay in the room. 
He mounts the stairs. 
INT. SALIERI'S APARTMENT - SALON - DAY - 1780'S 
Mozart is waiting for Salieri, holding a portfolio. Salieri approaches him nervously. Mozart stands not belligerently, but humbly. 
SALIERI Herr Mozart, what brings you here? 
MOZART Your Excellency, you requested some specimens of my work. Here they are. I don't have to tell you how much I need your help. I truly appreciate your looking at these. I have pressures on me - financial pressures. As you know, I'm a married man now. 
SALIERI So you are. How is your pretty wife? 
MOZART She is well. She is - well, actually, I'm about to become a father! She only told me last night. You are the first to know. 
SALIERI I'm flattered. And congratulations to you, of course. 
MOZART So you see, this post is very important to me right now. 
Salieri looks at him in distress. 
SALIERI Why didn't you come to me yesterday, Mozart? This is a most painful situation. Yesterday I could have helped you. Today, I can't. 
MOZART Why? Here is the music. It's here. I am submitting it humbly. Isn't that what you wanted? 
SALIERI I have just come from the palace. The post has been filled. 
MOZART Filled? That's impossible! They haven't even seen my work. I need this post. Please, can't you help me? Please! 
SALIERI My dear Mozart, there is no one in the world I would rather help, but now it is too late. 
MOZART Whom did they choose? 
SALIERI Herr Sommer. 
MOZART Sommer? Herr Sommer? But the man's a fool! He's a total mediocrity. 
SALIERI No, no, no: he has yet to achieve mediocrity. 
MOZART But I can't lose this post, I simply can't! Excellency, please. Let's go to the palace, and you can explain to the Emperor that Herr Sommer is an awful choice. He could actually do musical harm to the Princess! 
SALIERI An implausible idea. Between you and me, no one in the world could do musical harm to the Princess Elizabeth. 
Mozart chuckles delightedly. Salieri offers him a glass of white dessert and a spoon. Mozart takes it absently and goes on talking. 
MOZART Look, I must have pupils. Without pupils I can't manage. 
SALIERI You don't mean to tell me you are living in poverty? 
MOZART No, but I'm broke. I'm always broke. I don't know why. 
SALIERI It has been said, my friend, that you are inclined to live somewhat above your means. 
MOZART How can anyone say that? We have no cook, no maid. We have no footman. Nothing at all! 
SALIERI How is that possible? You give concerts, don't you? I hear they are quite successful. 
MOZART They're stupendously successful. You can't get a seat. The only problem is none will hire me. They all want to hear me play, but they won't let me teach their daughters. As if I was some kind of fiend. I'm not a fiend! 
SALIERI Of course not. 
MOZART Do you have a daughter? 
SALIERI I'm afraid not. 
MOZART Well, could you lend me some money till you have one? Then I'll teach her for free. That's a promise. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm being silly. Papa's right - I should put a padlock on my mouth. Seriously, is there any chance you could manage a loan? Only for six months, eight at most. After that I'll be the richest man in Vienna. I'll pay you back double. Anything. Name your terms. I'm not joking. I'm working on something that's going to explode like a bomb all over Europe! 
SALIERI Ah, how exciting! Tell me more. 
MOZART I'd better not. It's a bit of a secret. 
SALIERI Come, come, Mozart; I'm interested. Truly. 
MOZART Actually, it's a big secret. Oh, this is delicious! What is it? 
SALIERI Cream cheese mixed with granulated sugar and suffused with rum. Crema al Mascarpone. 
MOZART Ah. Italian? 
SALIERI Forgive me. We all have patriotic feelings of some kind. 
MOZART Two thousand, two hundred florins is all I need A hundred? Fifty? 
FRAU SCHLUMBERG Michael! 
MOZART Perhaps if I were to play a little first, it might encourage the Fraulein. (to the girl) Why don't you let me try the instrument? All right? 
Suddenly the girl rises. Mozart smiles at the parents. They smile nervously back. Mozart slides along the bench, raises his hands and preludes over the keys. Instantly a dog howls loudly. Startled, Mozart stops. Schlumberg leaps to his feet and goes over to the beagle. 
SCHLUMBERG Stop that, Dudelsachs! Stop it at once! (to Mozart) Don't let him disturb you. He'll be all right. He's just a little willful too. Please, please - play. I beg you. 
Mozart resumes playing. This time it is a lively piece, perhaps the Presto Finale from the K. 450. The dog howls immediately. 
SCHLUMBERG Stop it! STOP! 
Mozart stops. 
SCHLUMBERG No, not you. I was talking to the dog. You keep playing. It's most important. He always howls when he hears music. We've got to break them of the habit. Play, please. Please! 
Amazed, Mozart starts to play the Rondo again. The dog howls louder. 
SCHLUMBERG That's it. Now keep going, just keep going. (to the beagle) Now you stop that noise, Dudelsachs, you stop it this instant! This instant, do you hear me? Keep going, Herr Mozart, that's it. Go on, go on! 
Mozart plays on. Suddenly the dog falls silent. Schlumberg smiles broadly. 
SCHLUMBERG Good, good, good! Very good dog! Very, very good Dudelsachs. (to his wife, snapping his fingers) Quick, quick, dear, bring his biscuit. 
The wife scurries to get a jar of biscuits. A servant brings in an open bottle of wine and a full glass on a tray. He puts it down beside Mozart as Schlumberg addresses the silent dog with deepest affection. 
SCHLUMBERG Now guess who's going to get a nice reward? Clever, clever Dudi. 
He gives the biscuit to the dog who swallows it greedily. Mozart stops playing and stands up. 
SCHLUMBERG It's a miracle, Herr Mozart! 
MOZART (barely controlling himself) Well, I'm a good teacher. The next time you wish me to instruct another of your dogs, please let me know. Goodbye, Fraulein, goodbye, Madame! goodbye, Sir! 
He bows to them and leaves the room. They look after him in puzzled astonishment. 
FRAU SCHLUMBERG What a strange young man. 
SCHLUMBERG Yes. He is a little strange. 
EXT. A BUSY STREET IN VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S 
A cheerful scene. We see Mozart strutting and beaming, making his way through the crowd of porters, carriers and hawkers, sellers of sausages and pastries, vendors of hats and ribbons. Horses and carriage clatter past him. His mood is best expressed by a bubbling version of Non piu Andrai played on the forte-piano. 
Still in the same mood, he enters the door of his own house. 
INT. MOZART'S HOUSE - HALLWAY -  DAY - 1780'S 
Suddenly, he stops. He looks up the stairs. The grim opening chords from the Overture to Don Giovanni cut across the march from Figaro. What he sees, looking up the stairs, is a menacing figure in a long, grey cape and dark grey hat, standing on the landing. The light comes from behind the figure so that we see only its silhouette as it unfolds its arms towards Mozart in an alarming gesture of possession. It takes a beat in which the air of sinister mystery is held before Mozart realizes who it is. Then, as the music continues, he hastily sets down the bottle of wine and rushes joyfully up the stairs and hurls himself into the figure's arms. 
MOZART Papa! PAPA! 
Both men embrace. The music slowly fades. 
INT. MOZART'S LIVING ROOM - DAY - 1780'S 
A cramped, low-ceilinged little room which nobody has tidied for ages. We see music lying everywhere. Also there are many empty wine bottles; musical instruments - among them a mandolin, a viola, a forte-piano with the black and white keys reversed - books and abandoned plates of food. 
Mozart clasps his father's arms. Leopold is now seen as an aging, travel-stained man in clothes that need repair. His face is lined, and he is obviously not in perfect health. 
MOZART Why are you here? 
LEOPOLD Am I not welcome? 
MOZART Of course, welcome! Welcome ten thousand times. Papa! my Papa! 
He kisses his hands. 
LEOPOLD You're very thin. Does she not feed you, this wife of yours? 
Mozart ducks away and fetches his father's bags from the landing. 
MOZART Feed? Well, of course she feeds me. She stuffs me like a goose all day long. She's the best cook in the world. I mean, since Mama. Just wait, you'll see. 
LEOPOLD Is she not here? 
MOZART I don't know. Stanzi? Stanzi! 
Leopold looks about him at the mess in the room. 
LEOPOLD Do you always live like this? 
MOZART Oh, yes. Oh, I mean no - not exactly like this. I mean today - just today, Stanzi - I remember now. She had to go - yes! She had to help her mother. Yes, she's like that. Her mother's a very sweet woman, you'll see. 
He carries the bag across the room and opens the door of the bedroom. Constanze lies in bed. She sits up, startled. 
MOZART Oh! I didn't know you were home. Stanzi, this is my father. 
Constanze, who looks ill and tired, stares at Leopold. Leopold stares back from the doorway. 
MOZART We'll wait, we'll wait. Why don't you get up now, darling? 
He closes the door again. 
MOZART She's very tired, poor creature. You know me: I'm a real pig. It's not so easy cleaning up after me. 
LEOPOLD Don't you have a maid? 
MOZART Oh we could, if we wanted to, but Stanzi won't hear of it. She wants to do everything herself. 
LEOPOLD How is your financial situation? 
MOZART It couldn't be better. 
LEOPOLD That's not what I hear. 
MOZART What do you mean? It's wonderful. Really, it's - it's marvelous! People love me here. 
LEOPOLD They say you're in debt. 
MOZART Who? Who says that? Now that's a malicious lie! 
Constanze echoes him with a touch of malice in her voice. 
CONSTANZE This is just a game, Papa! 
Laughingly, the bystanders take it up, especially the children. 
BYSTANDERS This is just a game, Papa! 
As Leopold glares furiously about him, the actress succeeds in getting Constanze's wig firmly onto his head. Everybody bursts into applause. Delightedly, Constanze puts on Leopold's wig, hat and mask: from the waist up she now looks like a weird parody of Leopold in the smiling grey mask, and he looks like a weird parody of her in the silly feminine wig. Schikaneder starts to play again, and the couples start to dance. Leopold angrily takes off Constanze's wig and leaves the circle; his partner, Constanze, is left alone. Seeing this, Mozart leaves his partner and catches his father entreatingly by the arm. 
MOZART Oh no, Papa, please! Don't spoil the fun. Come on. Here, take mine. 
He takes off his own wig and puts it on Leopold's uncovered head. The effect, if not as ridiculous, is still somewhat bizarre, since Wolfgang favours fairly elaborate wigs. He takes Constanze's wig from his father. As this happens, the music stops again. Mozart gently pushes his father down onto a nearby chair; the others scramble for the other chairs; and he is left as the Odd Man Out. He giggles. Schikaneder calls out to Leopold from the keyboard. 
SCHIKANEDER Herr Mozart, why don't you name your son's penalty? 
Applause. 
MOZART Yes, Papa, name it. Name it. I'll do anything you say! 
LEOPOLD I want you to come back with me to Salzburg, my son. 
SCHIKANEDER What did he say? What did he say? 
MOZART Papa, the rule is you can only give penalties that can be performed in the room. 
LEOPOLD I'm tired of this game. Please play without me. 
MOZART But my penalty. I've got to have a penalty. 
All the bystanders are watching. 
SCHIKANEDER I've got a good one. I've got the perfect one for you. Come over here. 
Mozart runs over to the forte-piano, and Schikaneder surrenders his place at it. 
SCHIKANEDER Now, I want you to play our tune - sitting backwards. 
Applause. 
MOZART Oh, that's really too easy. Any child can do that. 
Amused sounds of disbelief. 
SCHIKANEDER And a fugue in the manner of Sebastian Bach. 
Renewed applause at this wicked extra penalty. Mozart smiles at Schikaneder - it is the sort of challenge he loves. He defiantly puts on Constanze's wig and seats himself with his back to the keyboard. Before the astonished eyes of the company he proceeds to execute this absurdly difficult task. His right hand plays the bass part, his left hand the treble, and with this added difficulty he improvises a brilliant fugue on the subject of the tune to which they have been dancing. 
Attracted by this astonishing feat, the players draw nearer to the instrument. So does Salieri, cautiously, with some of the bystanders. Constanze watches him approach. Only Leopold sits by himself, sulking. 
The fugue ends amidst terrific clapping. The guests call out to Mozart. 
GUESTS Another! Do another! Someone else. 
MOZART Give me a name. Who shall I do? Give me a name. 
GUESTS Gluck! Haydn! Frederic Handel! 
CONSTANZE Salieri! Do Salieri! 
SMASH CUT: Salieri's masked face whips around and looks at her. 
MOZART Now that's hard. That's very hard. For Salieri one has to face the right way around. 
Giggling, he turns around and sits at the keyboard. Then, watched by a highly amused group, he begins a wicked parody. 
He furrows his brow in mock concentration and closes his eyes. Then he begins to play the tune to which they danced, in the most obvious way imaginable, relying heavily on a totally and offensively unimaginative bass of tonic and dominant, endlessly repeated. The music is the very essence of banality. The bystanders rock with laughter. Mozart starts to giggle wildly. Through this excruciating scene, Salieri stares at Constanze, who suddenly turns her head and looks challengingly back at him. 
Mozart's parody reaches its coarse climax with him adding a fart noise instead of notes to end cadences. He builds this up, urged on in his clowning by everyone else, until suddenly he stops and cries out. The laughter cuts off. Mozart stands up, clutching his behind as if he has made a mess in his breeches. The momentary hush of alarm is followed by a howl of laughter. 
CU, Salieri staring in pain. 
INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823 
CU, The old man is shaking at the very recollection of his humiliation. 
OLD SALIERI Go on. Mock me. Laugh, laugh! 
CUT BACK TO: 
INT. GROTTO - NIGHT - 1780'S 
A repetition of the shot of Mozart at the forte-piano, wearing Constanze's wig and emitting a shrill giggle. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SALIERI'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S 
Salieri sits at his desk. He holds in his hand the small black party mask and stares in hatred at the place on the wall where the crucifix used to hang. Faintly we see the mark of the cross. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) That was not Mozart laughing, Father. That was God. That was God! God laughing at me through that obscene giggle. Go on, Signore. Laugh. Rub my nose in it. Show my mediocrity for all to see. You wait! I will laugh at You! Before I leave this earth, I will laugh at You! Amen! 
INT. MOZART'S WORKROOM - DAY - 1780'S 
It is littered with manuscripts. In the middle stands a billiard table. The beautiful closing ensemble from Act IV of Figaro: Ah, Tutti contenti! Saremo cosi plays in the background. Standing at the billiard table, Mozart is dreamily hearing the music and playing shots on the table. 
From time to time he drifts over to a piece of manuscript paper and jots down notes. He is very much in his own world of composition and the billiard balls are an aid to creation. Presently, however, we hear a knocking at the door. 
CONSTANZE (outside the door) Wolfi! Wolfgang! 
The music breaks off. 
MOZART What is it? 
He opens the door. 
CONSTANZE There's a young girl to see you. 
MOZART What does she want? 
CONSTANZE I don't know. 
MOZART Well, Majesty, it is only a comedy. 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG What you think, Mozart, is scarcely the point. It is what His Majesty thinks that counts. 
MOZART But, Your Majesty - 
JOSEPH (motioning him to be silent) Mozart, I am a tolerant man. I do not censor things lightly. When I do, I have good reason. Figaro is a bad play. It stirs up hatred between the classes. In France it has caused nothing but bitterness. My own dear sister Antoinette writes me that she is beginning to be frightened of her own people. I do not wish to see the same fears starting here. 
MOZART Sire, I swear to Your Majesty, there's nothing like that in the story. I have taken out everything that could give offense. I hate politics. 
JOSEPH I think you are rather innocent, my friend. In these dangerous times I cannot afford to provoke our nobles or our people simply over a theatre piece. 
The others look at their king solemnly, all save Mozart. 
MOZART But, Majesty, this is just a frolic. It's a piece about love. 
JOSEPH Ah, love again. 
MOZART But it's new, it's entirely new. It's so new, people will go mad for it. For example, I have a scene in the second act - it starts as a duet, just a man and wife quarreling. Suddenly the wife's scheming little maid comes in unexpectedly - a very funny situation. Duet turns into trio. Then the husband's equally screaming valet comes in. Trio turns into quartet. Then a stupid old gardener - quartet becomes quintet, and so on.  On and on, sextet, septet, octet! How long do you think I can sustain that? 
JOSEPH I have no idea. 
MOZART Guess! Guess, Majesty. Imagine the longest time such a thing could last, then double it. 
JOSEPH Well, six or seven minutes! maybe eight! 
MOZART Twenty, sire! How about twenty? Twenty minutes of continuous music. No recitatives. 
VON SWIETEN Mozart - 
MOZART (ignoring him) Sire, only opera can do this. In a play, if more than one person speaks at the same time, it's just noise. No one can understand a word. But with music, with music you can have twenty individuals all talking at once, and it's not noise - it's a perfect harmony. Isn't that marvelous? 
VON SWIETEN Mozart, music is not the issue here. No one doubts your talent. It is your judgment of literature that's in question. Even with the politics taken out, this thing would still remain a vulgar farce. Why waste your spirit on such rubbish?  Surely you can choose more elevated themes? 
MOZART Elevated? What does that mean? Elevated! The only thing a man should elevate is - oh, excuse me. I'm sorry. I'm stupid. But I am fed up to the teeth with elevated things! Old dead legends! How can we go on forever writing about gods and legends? 
VON SWIETEN (aroused) Because they do. They go on forever - at least what they represent. The eternal in us, not the ephemeral. Opera is here to ennoble us. You and me, just as much as His Majesty. 
BONNO Bello! Bello, Barone. Veramente. 
MOZART Oh, bello, bello, bello! Come on now, be honest. Wouldn't you all rather listen to your hairdressers than Hercules? Or Horatius? Or Orpheus? All those old bores! people so lofty they sound as if they shit marble! 
VON SWIETEN What? 
VON STRACK Govern your tongue, sir! How dare you? 
Beat. All look at the Emperor. 
MOZART Forgive me, Majesty. I'm a vulgar man. But I assure you, my music is not. 
JOSEPH You are passionate, Mozart! But you do not persuade. 
MOZART Sire, the whole opera is finished. Do you know how much work went into it? 
BONNO His Majesty has been more than patient, Signore. 
MOZART How can I persuade you if you won't let me show it? 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG That will do, Herr Mozart! 
MOZART Just let me tell you how it begins. 
VON STRACK Herr Mozart - 
MOZART May I just do that, Majesty? Show you how it begins? Just that? 
A slight pause. Then Joseph nods. 
JOSEPH Please. 
Mozart falls on his knees. 
MOZART Look! There's a servant, down on his knees. Do you know why? Not from any oppression. No, he's simply measuring a space. Do you know what for? His bed. His wedding bed to see if it will fit. 
He giggles. 
CUT TO: 
INT. OPERA HOUSE - DAY - 1780'S 
Mozart sits on stage at a harpsichord rehearsing the singers taking the parts of Figaro and Susanna in the opening bars of the first act of The Marriage of Figaro. We watch Figaro measuring the space for his bed on the floor, singing and Susanna looking on, trying on the Countess' hat. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SALIERI'S SALON - DAY - 1780'S 
Orsini-Rosenberg and Bonno are sitting with Salieri. 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG Well, Mozart is already rehearsing. 
SALIERI Incredible. 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG The Emperor has given him permission. 
BONNO Si, si! Veramente. 
SALIERI Well, gentlemen, so be it. In that case I think we should help Mozart all we can and do our best to protect him against the Emperor's anger. 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG What anger? 
SALIERI About the ballet. 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG Ballet? What ballet? 
SALIERI Excuse me - didn't His Majesty specifically forbid ballet in his opera? 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG Yes, absolutely. Is there a ballet in Figaro? 
SALIERI Yes, in the third act. 
CUT TO: 
JOSEPH Do you like this, Salieri? 
SALIERI It is not a question of liking, Your Majesty. Your own law decrees it, I'm afraid. 
JOSEPH Well, look at them. 
We do look at them. The spectacle on stage has now ground to a complete halt. 
JOSEPH No, no, no! This is nonsense. Let me hear the scene with the music. 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG But, Sire - 
JOSEPH Oblige me. 
Orsini-Rosenberg acknowledges his defeat. 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG Yes, Majesty. 
Orsini-Rosenberg rises and goes down to where Mozart sits anxiously with the musicians, watching his approach. 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG Can we see the scene with the music back, please? 
MOZART Oh yes, certainly. Certainly, Herr Director! 
He looks back deliriously at Salieri, trying to indicate his gratitude. Salieri acknowledges with a slight and subtle nod. 
Orsini-Rosenberg returns to his king. 
MOZART Ladies and gentlemen, we're going from where we stopped. The Count: Anches so. Right away, please! 
The singers scatter offstage to begin the scene again. 
JOSEPH (to Orsini-Rosenberg) What I hoped by that edict, Director, was simply to prevent hours of dancing like in French opera. There it is endless, as you know. 
ORSINI-ROSENBERG Quite so, Majesty. 
CUT BACK TO Mozart at the forte-piano, raising his hands. The musicians raise their bows. With a flourish the happy composer begins a reprise of the scene which had been cut out. The music of the march begins faintly; the celebrants of Figaro's wedding start to enter as the Count and the Countess sit in their chairs. 
In the theatre we see increasing pleasure on the Emperor's face, sullenness and defeat on the courtiers'. Then, suddenly, without interruption, on a crescendo repeat of the march, we 
CUT TO: 
INT.  OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S 
The theatre is brilliantly lit for the first public performance of Figaro. Everybody is there: the Emperor, Von Strack, Bonno Orsini-Rosenberg, Von Swieten, even Madame Weber and her daughters in a box. The musicians all wear imperial livery; the actors on stage are now in costume. Mozart, conducting, wears his Order of the Golden Spur. The company wheels in and around to the music of the restored march, which reaches a triumphant climax. 
CUT TO: 
INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823 
OLD SALIERI (to Vogler) So Figaro was produced in spite of me. And in spite of me, a wonder was revealed. One of the true wonders of art. The restored third act was bold and brilliant. The fourth was a miracle. 
The descending scale of strings in the final ensemble (Ah, Tutti contenti. Saremo cosi) fades in. 
INT. OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S 
We see the tableau on stage with the Count kneeling to the Countess. All are singing. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) I saw a woman disguised in her maid's clothes hear her husband speak the first tender words he has offered her in years, only because he thinks she is someone else. I heard the music of true forgiveness filling the theatre, conferring on all who sat there a perfect absolution. God was singing through this little man to all the world - unstoppable - making my defeat more bitter with each passing bar. 
CU, Salieri in his box, tears on his cheeks. He watches the ensemble and we listen to it for a long moment. Finally it fades, but continues underneath the following: 
INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823 
OLD SALIERI And then suddenly - a miracle! 
CUT BACK TO: 
INT. OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S 
The ensemble reaches its climax, and fades away to the very quiet, slow chords immediately preceding the boisterous final chord. Salieri becomes aware that some of the audience are asleep and many mare are apathetic. In the near silence we see the Emperor yawn behind his hand. Those nearby look at him. Orsini-Rosenberg smiles. 
CUT BACK TO: 
INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823 
OLD SALIERI Father, did you know what that meant? With that yawn I saw my defeat turn into a victory. And Mozart was lucky the Emperor only yawned once. Three yawns and the opera would fail the same night; two yawns, within a week at most. With one yawn the composer could still get - 
CUT TO: 
INT. SALIERI'S SALON - DAY - 1780'S 
Mozart is pacing up and down. Salieri is listening sympathetically. 
MOZART Nine performances! Nine! That's all it's had - and withdrawn. 
SALIERI I know; it's outrageous. Still, if the public doesn't like one's work one has to accept the fact gracefully. 
MOZART But what is it they don't like? 
SALIERI Well, I can speak for the Emperor. You made too many demands on the royal ear. The poor man can't concentrate for more than an hour and you gave him four. 
MOZART What did you think of it yourself? Did you like it at all? 
SALIERI I think it's marvelous. Truly. 
MOZART It's the best opera yet written. I know it! Why didn't they come? 
SALIERI I think you overestimate our dear Viennese, my friend. Do you know you didn't even give them a good bang at the end of songs so they knew when to clap? 
MOZART I know, I know. Perhaps you should give me some lessons in that. 
SALIERI (fuming) I wouldn't presume. All the same, if it wouldn't be imposing, I would like you to see my new piece. It would be a tremendous honour for me. 
MOZART Oh no, the honour would be all mine. 
SALIERI (bowing) Grazie, mio caro, Wolfgang! 
MOZART Grazie, a lei, Signor Antonio! 
He bows too, giggling. 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) And I knew - only I understood - that the horrifying apparition was Leopold, raised from the dead. Wolfgang had actually summoned up his own father to accuse his son before all the world. It was terrifying and wonderful to watch. 
Music swells up again. We watch the scene on stage as the Commendatore addresses Giovanni. Then back to Salieri in the box. Music down again. 
INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823 
OLD SALIERI Now a madness began in me. The madness of a man splitting in half. Through my influence I saw to it Don Giovanni was played only five times in Vienna. But in secret I went to every one of those five - all alone - unable to help myself, worshipping sound I alone seemed to hear. 
INT. AN OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S 
OLD SALIERI (V.O.) And hour after hour, as I stood there, understanding even more clearly how that bitter old man was still possessing his poor son from beyond the grave, I began to see a way - a terrible way - I could finally triumph over God, my torturer. 
Music swells. On stage Don Giovanni is seized and gripped by the Statue's icy hand. Flames burst from obviously artificial rocks. Demons appear and drag the libertine down to Hell. The scene ends. 
CU, Salieri, staring wide-eyed. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE - VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S 
We see huge and attractive posters and billboards advertising Schikaneder's troupe. The camera concentrates on the one which reads as follows: 
EMMANUEL SCHIKANEDER Impresario de luxe PRESENTS The Celebrated SCHIKANEDER TROUPE OF PLAYERS IN An Evening of PARODY Music!  Mirth!  Magic! ALL SONGS AND SPEECHES WRITTEN BY EMMANUEL SCHIKANEDER who personally will appear in every scene! 
CUT TO: 
INT. SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE - NIGHT - 1780'S 
Noise; smoke; the audience is sitting at tables for an evening of vaudeville. Mozart, Constanze and their son Karl, now about two years old, and sitting on his mother's lap, are watching a parody scene by Schikaneder's troupe. They are rowdy, bawdy and silly, incorporating motifs, situations and tunes from Mozart's operas which we have seen and heard. Before them on the table are bottles of wine and beer, plates of sausages, etc. 
THE PARODY 
On stage we see a set which parodies the dining room in Don Giovanni's palace, shown before. 
Schikaneder as Don Giovanni is dancing with the three actresses to the minuet from Don Giovanni (end of Act I), played by a quartet of tipsy musicians. Leporello is handing around wine on a tray. 
Suddenly there is a tremendous knocking from outside. The music slithers to a stop. All look at each other in panic. Leporello drops his tray with a crash. All go quiet. One more knock is heard. Then all musicians, actresses, Don Giovanni and Leporello make a dash to hide under the table which is far too small to accommodate them all. The table rocks. Schikaneder is pushed out. He is terrified. He shakes elaborately. Three more knocks are heard; louder. 
SCHIKANEDER Who is it? 
One more knock. 
SCHIKANEDER C-c-c-come in! 
In the pit a chromatic scale from the Overture to Don Giovanni turns into a anticipatory vamp. This grows more and more menacing until the whole flat representing the wall at the back falls down. 
An absurd pantomime horse gallops in. It has a ridiculous expression, and is manned by four men inside. Standing precariously on its back is a dwarf, wearing a miniature version of the armour and helmet worn by the Commendatore. He sings in a high, nasal voice: 
COMMENDATORE (singing) Don Giovannnnnnnnnni! 
He tries to keep his balance as he trots in, but fails. He falls off onto the stage. He beats at the horse, trying to get back on. 
COMMENDATORE Down! Down! 
Bewildered, the horse looks about him, but cannot see his small rider who is below his level of sight. 
COMMENDATORE I'm here! I'm here! 
The horse, amidst laughter from the audience, fails to locate him. Exasperated, the dwarf signals to someone in the wings. A tall man strides out carrying a see-saw; on his shoulders stands another man. 
The dwarf stands on the lowered end of the see-saw. There is a drum roll and the man above jumps down onto the raised end and the Commendatore is abruptly catapulted back onto the horse, only backwards so that he is facing away from Don Giovanni. The two men bow to the applauding audience, and retire off-stage. 
The Commendatore tries to extend his arms in the proper menacing attitude, and at the same time turn around to face Don Giovanni. This he finds difficult. 
COMMENDATORE (singing) Don Giovannnnnnnni! 
SCHIKANEDER Who the devil are you? What do you want? 
COMMENDATORE (singing) I've come to dinnnnnner! 
SCHIKANEDER Dinner? How dare you? I am a nobleman. I only dine with people of my own height. 
COMMENDATORE Are you drunk? You invited me. And my horse. Here he is. Ottavio! 
The horse takes a bow. The dwarf almost falls off again. 
COMMENDATORE Whoa! Whoa! Stop it! 
The three girls rush to his aid and reach him just in time. They sing in the manner of the Tree Ladies later to be put into The Magic Flute. 
FIRST LADY (running and singing) Be careful! 
SECOND LADY (running and singing) Be careful! 
THIRD LADY (running and singing) Be careful! 
ALL THREE TOGETHER (close harmony) Hold tight now! 
They grab him. 
COMMENDATORE (angry) Leave me alone! Stop it! I'm a famous horseman. 
OTTAVIO And I'm a famous horse! 
He gives the ladies a radiant smile. The three ladies sing, as before, in close harmony. 
FIRST LADY (singing) He's adorable! 
SECOND LADY (singing) Adorable! 
THIRD LADY (singing) Adorable! 
An orchestral chord. The three ladies turn to Ottavio and sing to him. 
THREE LADIES (singing together) Give me your hoof, my darling, And I'll give you my heart! Take me to your stable, And never more we'll part! 
OTTAVIO (singing: four male voices) I'm shy and very bashful. I don't know what to say. 
THREE LADIES (singing together) Don't hesitate a second. Just answer yes and neigh. 
Ottavio neighs loudly, and runs at the girls. 
Wild applause. 
It flies into the audience. Immediately all the cast start humming the lyrical finale from Figaro: Tutti Contenti. More and more doves fly out from the wings and fill the theatre. Everybody picks up the sausages and cakes and begins to eat. The end of the sketch is unexpectedly lyrical and magical, and then, suddenly, the tempo changes and the coarse strains of Ich Mochte wohl Der Kaiser take over and the whole company is dancing, frantically. A general dance as the curtain falls. 
It rises immediately. The audience - including Mozart - is delighted. They applaud vigorously. Schikaneder takes a bow amongst his troupe. Among much whistling and clapping, he finally jumps off the stage and strides through the audience toward the table where Mozart sits with his family. On stage, a troupe of bag pipers immediately appears to play an old German tune. Some of the audience joins in singing it. 
SCHIKANEDER Well, how do you like that? 
Mozart is smiling; he has been amused. Constanze has been less amused and is looking apprehensive. 
MOZART Wonderful! (indicating his baby son) He liked the monkey, didn't you? 
SCHIKANEDER Yes, well, it's all good fun. 
MOZART I liked the horse. 
Schikaneder sits at the table, and drinks from a bottle of wine. 
SCHIKANEDER Isn't he marvelous? He cost me a bundle, that horse, but he's worth it. I tell you, if you'd played Don Giovanni here it would have been a great success. I'm not joking. These people aren't fools. You could do something marvelous for them. 
MOZART I'd like to try them someday. I'm not sure I'd be much good at it. 
SCHIKANEDER 'Course you would. You belong here, my boy, not the snobby Court. You could do anything you felt like here - the more fantastic the better! That's what people want, you know: fantasy. You do a big production, fill it with beautiful magic tricks and you'll be absolutely free to do anything you want. Of course, you'd have to put a fire in it, because I've got the best fire machine in the city and a big flood - I can do you the finest water effects you ever saw in your life. Oh, and a few trick animals. You'd have to use those. 
MOZART Animals? 
SCHIKANEDER I tell you I picked up a snake in Dresden last week - twelve foot long  - folds up to six inches, just like a paper fan. It's a miracle. 
Mozart laughs. 
SCHIKANEDER I'm serious. You write a proper part for me with a couple of catchy songs, I'll guarantee you'll have a triumph- de-luxe. Mind you, it'll have to be in German. 
MOZART German! 
SCHIKANEDER Of course! What else do you think they speak here? 
MOZART No, no, I love that. I'd want it to be in German. I haven't done anything in German since Seraglio. 
SCHIKANEDER So there you are. What do you say? 
CONSTANZE How much will you pay him? 
SCHIKANEDER Ah. Well. Ah, (to Mozart) I see you've got your manager with you. Well, Madame, how about half the receipts? 
MOZART Half the receipts! Stanzi! 
CONSTANZE I'm talking about now. How much will you give him now? Down payment? 
SCHIKANEDER Down payment? Who do you think I am? The Emperor? Whoops, I have to go. 
He rises in haste for his next number. 
SCHIKANEDER Stay where you are. You're going to like this next one. We'll speak again. Triumph-de-luxe, my boy! 
He winks at Mozart and disappears toward the stage. Mozart looks after him, enchanted. 
CONSTANZE You're not going to do this? 
MOZART Why not? Half the house! 
CONSTANZE When? We need money now. Either he pays now, or you don't do it. 
MOZART Oh, Stanzi. 
CONSTANZE I don't trust this man. And I didn't like what he did with your opera. It was common. 
MOZART (to Karl) Well, you liked it, didn't you? Monkey-flunki-punki. 
CONSTANZE Half the house! You'll never see a penny. I want it here, in my hand. 
MOZART (dirty) Stanzi-manzi, I'll put it in your hand! 
CONSTANZE Shut up! I'll not let you put anything in my hand until I see some money. 
He giggles like a child. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SCHLUMBERG HOUSE - HALLWAY - DAY 1780'S 
Dogs are barking wickedly. Michael Schlumberg comes in from his salon. Mozart stands there looking very unwell and bewildered. He is also drunk, but making a careful attempt to keep his composure. 
SCHLUMBERG Herr Mozart. What a surprise. What can I do for you? 
MOZART Is my pupil still anxious to learn the art of music? 
SCHLUMBERG Well, your pupil is married and living in Mannheim, young man. 
MOZART Really? Perhaps your dear wife might care to profit from my instruction? 
SCHLUMBERG What is this, Mozart? What's the matter with you? 
MOZART Well. Since it appears nobody is eager to hire my services, could you favour me with a little money instead? 
SCHLUMBERG What for? 
MOZART If a man cannot earn, he must borrow. 
SCHLUMBERG Well, this is hardly the way to go about it. 
MOZART No doubt, sir. But I am endowed with talent, and you with money. If I offer mine, you should offer yours. 
Pause. 
SCHLUMBERG I'm sorry. No. 
MOZART Please. I'll give it back, I promise. Please, sir. 
SCHLUMBERG My answer is no, Mozart. 
CU, Mozart. His voice becomes mechanical. 
VOGLER Yes. 
OLD SALIERI The only thing that worried me was the actual killing. How does one do that? How does one kill a man? It's one thing to dream about it. It's very different when you have to do it, with your own hands. 
He raises his own hands and stares at them. The raging Dies Irae from Mozart's Requiem Mass bursts upon us. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S 
Mozart sits working frantically at this demonic music. His whole expression is one of wildness and engulfing fever. He pours wine down his throat, spilling it, and grimaces as it hits his stomach. All around him are manuscripts. 
There is a banging at the front door. Mozart does not hear it; the music raves on. Another knocking comes, louder. Constanze appears from the bedroom and stares at her distracted husband. The knocking is repeated again, even more violently and insistently. 
CONSTANZE Wolfi. Wolfi! 
He looks at her. The music breaks off. Silence. An enormous bang at the door startles him. 
Constanze moves to open it. 
MOZART No. Don't answer it! 
CONSTANZE Why? 
Mozart springs up. He is clearly terrified. 
MOZART Tell him I'm not here. Tell him I'm working on it. Come back later. 
He runs out of he room, into his workroom, and shuts he door. Now a little scared herself, Constanze goes to he front door and opens it cautiously. Schikaneder stands there, floridly dressed as usual. Lorl is seen peeking out from the kitchen. 
SCHIKANEDER Am I interrupting something? 
CONSTANZE Not at all. 
SCHIKANEDER (peering into he room) Where's our friend? 
CONSTANZE He's not in. But he's working on it. He said to tell you. 
SCHIKANEDER I hope so. I need it immediately. 
He pushes her into the room. 
SCHIKANEDER Is he happy with it? 
He sees he manuscript on the table, and goes to it eagerly. 
SCHIKANEDER Is this it? 
He picks up a page without waiting for a reply. 
SCHIKANEDER What the devil is this? Requiem Mass? Does he think I'm in the funeral business? 
Mozart opens he workroom door. We see him as Schikaneder sees him: wild-eyed, extremely pale and strange. 
MOZART Leave that alone! 
SCHIKANEDER Wolfi! 
MOZART Put it down! 
SCHIKANEDER What is this? 
MOZART Put it down, I said! It's nothing for you. 
SCHIKANEDER Oh! I'm sorry! I'm sorry! What have you got for me? Is it finished? 
MOZART What? 
SCHIKANEDER What? The vaudeville, what'd you think? 
MOZART Yes. 
SCHIKANEDER Can I see it? 
MOZART No. 
SCHIKANEDER Why not? 
MOZART Because there's nothing to see. 
He giggles triumphantly. Schikaneder stares at him. 
SCHIKANEDER Look, I asked you if we could start rehearsal next week and you said yes. 
MOZART Well, we can. 
SCHIKANEDER So let me see it. Where is it? 
Mozart, with a bright, rather demented smile presents his head to Schikaneder. 
MOZART Here. It's all right here, in my noodle. The rest is just scribbling. Scribbling and bibbling. Bibbling and scribbling. Would you like a drink? 
He giggles. Schikaneder suddenly grabs his lapels. 
SCHIKANEDER Look, you little clown, do you know how many people I've hired for you? Do you know how many people are waiting? 
CONSTANZE Leave him alone! 
SCHIKANEDER I'm paying these people. Do you realize that? 
CONSTANZE He's doing his best. 
SCHIKANEDER I'm paying people just to wait for you. It's ridiculous! 
CONSTANZE You know what's ridiculous? Your libretto, that's what's ridiculous. Only an idiot would ask Wolfi to work on that stuff! 
SCHIKANEDER Oh yes? And what's so intelligent about writing a Requiem? 
CONSTANZE Money! Money! 
SCHIKANEDER You're mad! She's mad, Wolfi. 
EXT. VIENNA STREET - NIGHT - 1790'S 
Mozart, drunk and happy, staggers back through the snow. There are a few people about. He goes into his apartment building. 
INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - DAY - 1790'S 
He comes through he door and stares across the living room at an open bedroom door. Puzzled, he crosses. 
The bedroom is also empty. We see Constanze's empty bed; Karl's empty bed; empty closets. 
MOZART Stanzi? Stanzi-marini-bini? 
He looks about him, puzzled. 
INT. FRAU WEBER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY - 1790'S 
Frau Weber sits grimly talking. Mozart sits also, completely exhausted and passive under the rain of her constant speech. 
FRAU WEBER She's not coming back, you know. She's gone for good. I did it and I'm proud of it. 'Leave,' I said. 'Right away! Take he child and go, just go. Here's the money! Go to the Spa and get your health back - that's if you can.' I was shocked. Shocked to my foundation. Is that my girl? Can that be my Stanzi? The happy little moppet I brought up, that poor trembling thing? Oh, you monster! No one exists but you, do they? You and your music! Do you know how often she's sat in that very chair, weeping her eyes out of her head because of you? I warned her. 'Choose a man, not a baby,' I said. But would she listen? Who listens? 'He's just a silly boy,' she says. Silly, my arse. Selfish - that's all you are. Selfish! Selfish, selfish, selfish, selfish, selfish. 
And with a scream Madame Weber's voice turns into the shrill packing coloratura of the second act aria of the Queen of the Night, in The Magic Flute. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE - NIGHT - 1790'S 
On stage we see the QUEEN OF THE NIGHT fantastically costumed, furiously urging her daughter to kill Sarastro. As she sings, we see the interior of the theatre, now re-arranged from when we last visited it to watch the Cabaret. An audience of ordinary German citizens stands in the pit area, or sits: they are rapt and excited. 
The theatre also possesses boxes; some of these show closed curtains - their inhabitants presumably engaged in private intimacies. In one of them sits Salieri. 
QUEEN OF THE NIGHT (singing furiously) A hellish wrath within my heart is seething! Death and destruction Flame around my throne! If not by thee Sarastro's light be extinguished. Then be thou mine own daughter never more! Rejected be forever! So sundered be forever All the bonds of kin and blood! Hear! Hear! Hear God of Vengeance! Hear thy Mother's vow! 
Thunder and lightning. She disappears amidst tremendous applause from the audience. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. OUTSIDE THE THEATRE - NIGHT - 1790'S 
On the poster for The Magic Flute, the name Emmanuel Schikaneder should appear very, very large and the name of Mozart quite small: 
I. & R. priv. Weiden Theatre The Actors of the Imperial and Royal Privileged Theatre of the Weiden Have the honour to perform THE MAGIC FLUTE A Grand Opera in Two Acts By Emmanuel Schikaneder (The Cast List) 
The music is by Herr Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Herr Mozart out of respect for a gracious and honourable Public, and from friendship for the author of this piece, will today direct the orchestra in person. 
The book of the opera, furnished with two copperplates, of which is engraved Herr Schikaneder in the costume he wears for the role of Papageno, may be had at the box office for 30 kr. 
Prices of admission are as usual To begin at 7 o'clock 
INT. STAGE, AUDITORIUM AND WINGS OF SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE - NIGHT -1790'S 
We CUT TO the scene immediately before Papageno's song, Ein Madchen oder Weibchen. Papageno, played by Schikaneder, dressed in his costume of feathers, is trying to get through a mysterious door. A voice calls from within. 
VOICE Go back! 
Papageno recoils. 
PAPAGENO Merciful Gods! If only I knew by which door I came in. (to audience) Which was it? Was it this one? Come on, tell me! 
VOICE Go back! 
Papageno recoils. 
PAPAGENO Now, I can't go forward and I can't go back. Oh, this is awful! 
He weeps extravagantly. 
In the pit, Mozart indicates to the first violinist to take over as conductor. He slips from his place and goes stealthily backstage. We follow him. Over the scene we hear Papageno being addressed by the First Priest in stern tones. 
FIRST PRIEST (on stage) Man, thou hast deserved to wander forever in the darkest chasms of the earth. The gentle Gods have remitted thy punishment, but yet thou shalt never feel the Divine Content of the consecrated ones. 
PAPAGENO Oh well, I'm not alone in that. Just give me a decent glass of wine - that's divine content enough for me. 
Laughter. An enormous goblet of wine appears out of the earth. 
We follow Mozart into the wings. Actors and actresses stand around in fantastic costumes. We see a flying chariot and parts of a huge snake lying about. Also the scenery door of a temple with the word 'Wisdom' inscribed on the pediment. Mozart walks to where there stands a keyboard glockenspiel with several manuals, and a musician waiting to play it. Silently Mozart indicates that he wishes to play the instrument himself. 
On stage Schikaneder is being addressed haughtily by the First Priest. 
FIRST PRIEST Man, hast thou no other desire on earth, but just to eat and drink? 
PAPAGENO (Schikaneder) Well! 
Laughter from the audience. 
PAPAGENO Well, actually I do have a rather weird feeling in my heart. Perhaps it's just indigestion. But you know, I really would like - I really do want - something even nicer than food and drink. Now what on earth could that be? 
He stares at the audience and winks at them. They laugh. 
Now Papageno's aria (Ein Madchen oder Weibchen) begins. It is interpolated, as he pretends to play his magic bells, with the glockenspiel actually being played off-stage by Mozart. Schikaneder looks into the pit and does not see Mozart conducting. He looks into the wings and realizes the situation with amusement. He sings joyfully and the audience watches entranced. 
ANDANTE A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish. Be my most tasty little dish! Be my most tasty little dish! 
ALLEGRO Then that would be eating and drinking I'd live like a Prince without thinking. The wisdom of old would be mine - A woman's much better than wine! Then that would be eating and drinking! The wisdom of old would be mine - A woman's much better than wine. She's much better than wine! She's much better than wine! 
ANDANTE (encore, lightly, as before) A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish. 
ALLEGRO I need to net one birdie only And I will stop feeling so lonely. But if she won't fly to my aid, Then into a ghost I must fade. I need to net one birdie only But if she won't fly to my aid, Then into a ghost I must fade.  To a ghost I must fade! To a ghost I must fade! 
ANDANTE (encore) A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish. 
ALLEGRO At present the girls only peck me. Their cruelty surely will wreck me. But one little beak in my own, And I'll up to heaven be flown! At present the girls only peck me. But one little beak in my own, And I'll up to heaven be flown. Up to heaven be flown! Up to heaven be flown! 
At certain moments we see the stage from Salieri's point of view: Schikaneder singing, then pretending to play; and then we see Mozart playing the glockenspiel with great flourishes in the wings. Then, suddenly, the actor mimes playing, and no sound comes. He mimes again, but still nothing comes. He looks offstage in anxiety; there is evidently some commotion. People are looking down on the floor. The song comes to a near-halt. Schikaneder stares. Then the comedian signals to the deputy conductor to pick up the song and finish it. At this moment Salieri gets up and hastily leaves his box. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WINGS OF SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE - NIGHT - 1790'S 
We see the actress playing Papagena, wearing an old tattered cloak and about to tie a little painted cloth representing a hideous old woman over her face. She is looking worriedly down at Mozart, who is lying unconscious on the floor. 
A few people around him are trying to revive him. One has put a wet handkerchief around his temples. Another is holding a small bottle of smelling salts. There are voices saying, 'Doctor! Take him to a dressing room. Someone call a carriage. Take him home.' Etc. Papagena is urged to go on stage by a distracted stage manager. Suddenly we hear the voice of Salieri. 
MOZART Yes, and on 'dictis'. 
SALIERI Yes! 
He writes feverishly. 
MOZART And underneath, just violins - arpeggio. 
He sings the violin figure under the Voca Me (Bars 7,8,9). 
MOZART (speaking) The descending scale in eighth notes, and then back suddenly to the fire again. 
He sings the ostinato phrase twice. 
MOZART (speaking) And that's it. Do you have it? 
SALIERI You go fast! 
MOZART (urgently) Do you have it? 
SALIERI Yes. 
MOZART Then let me hear it. All of it. The whole thing from the beginning - now! 
The entire Confutatis bursts over the room, as Mozart snatches the manuscript pages from Salieri and reads from it, singing. Salieri sits looking on in wondering astonishment. The music continues right through the following scenes, to the end of the movement. 
EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD - WINTER NIGHT - 1790'S 
A carriage is driving fast through the night. Snow lies on the countryside. 
INT. THE CARRIAGE  NIGHT - 1790'S 
The carriage is filled with passengers. Among them Constanze and Karl, her young son. They are sleepless and sway to the motion of the vehicle. 
INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S 
Mozart lying in bed exhausted, but still dictating urgently. We do not hear what he is saying to Salieri, who still sits writing assiduously. Mozart is looking very sick: sweat is pouring from his forehead. 
EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD - WINTER NIGHT - 1790'S 
The carriage, moving through the night, to the sound of the music. 
INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S 
Mozart still dictating; Salieri still writing without stop. 
EXT. VIENNA STREET - DAWN - 1790'S. 
The carriage has arrived. Constanze and her son alight with other passengers. Postillions attend to the horses. She takes her boy's hand. It is a cold wintry dawn. 
The music stutters to a close. End of the Confutatis. 
INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S 
MOZART Do you want to rest a bit? 
SALIERI Oh no. I'm not tired at all. 
MOZART We'll stop for just a moment. Then we'll do the Lacrimosa. 
SALIERI I can keep going, I assure you. Shall we try? 
MOZART Would you stay with me while I sleep a little? 
SALIERI I'm not leaving you. 
MOZART I am so ashamed. 
SALIERI What for? 
MOZART I was foolish. I thought you did not care for my work - or me. Forgive me. Forgive me! 
Mozart closes his eyes. Salieri stares at him. 
EXT. VIENNA STREET - WINTRY DAWN - 1790'S 
Constanze and Karl approach along the cobbled street, hand in hand toward their house. Snow lies in the street. 
INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - DAWN - 1790'S 
Mozart lies asleep in the bed, holding the last pages of the manuscript. Salieri lies across from him on Karl's small bed in his shirt sleeves and waistcoat. The child's bed is obviously too small for him and he is forced in to a cramped position. 
EXT. MOZART'S APARTMENT HOUSE - DAWN - 1790'S 
Constanze and Karl arrive at the door. They enter. 
INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAWN - 1790'S 
It is as disordered as before, save that the table, previously littered with pages, is now completely bare. Constanze looks at it with surprise and enters the bedroom. 
INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - DAWN - 1790'S 
Mozart is asleep in the bed. Salieri is dozing on the nearby child's bed. The room is full of the trailing smoke from guttering and guttered candles. Startled by Constanze's entrance and her young son, Salieri scrambles up. As he does so, he attempts to button his waistcoat, but does it ineptly, so that the vestment becomes bunched up, making him look absurd. 
CONSTANZE What are you doing here? 
SALIERI Your husband is ill, ma'am. He took sick. I brought him home. 
CONSTANZE Why you? 
SALIERI I was at hand. 
CONSTANZE Well, thank you very much. You can go now. 
SALIERI He needs me, ma'am. 
CONSTANZE No, he doesn't. And I don't want you here. Just go, please. 
SALIERI He asked me to stay. 
CONSTANZE And I'm asking you - 
