"AMERICAN GRAFFITI" 
Screenplay by 
George Lucas 
Gloria Katz & Willard Huyck 
RADIO 
On a dark screen an immense amber light appears and an electric humming begins. The eerie light glows brighter and illuminates a single huge number--11. We hear static and a large vertical band of red floats mysteriously across the screen. 
Pulling back slowly, we watch the glowing band traverse back and forth over the amber light and past more numbers appearing-- 70... 90... 110... 130. And we begin to hear voices--strange songs, fading conversations and snatches of music drifting with static. 
Pulling back further, we realize it is a car radio filling the screen and radio stations we're hearing, until the indicator stops. There's a pause...and suddenly we are hit by a blasting-out-of-the-past, Rocking and Rolling, turn-up- the-volume, pounding Intro to a Vintage 1962 Golden Week-End Radio Show--back when things were simpler and the music was better. 
And now a wolf howl shatters through time as the legendary Wolfman Jack hits the airwaves, his gravel voice shrieking and growling while the music pumps and grinds... 
WOLFMAN Awwrigght, baay-haay-baay! I got a oldie for ya--gonna knock ya right on de flowa--baay-haay-hee-baay! 
The Wolfman howls like a soulful banshee as "Rock Around the Clock" blasts forth. 
MEL'S DRIVE-IN--DUSK 
A neon drive-in casts long shadows across a vast parking lot as the sun drops behind a distant hill. A large neon sign buzzes in the foreground... MEL'S DRIVE-IN, while in the background, "Rock Around The Clock" blares from the radio of a beautiful decked and channeled, white with red trim, tuck- and-rolled '58 Chevy Impala that glides into the drive-in. Main titles appear over action. Steve Bolander stops the elegant machine and gets out. He looks around, then walks to the front of the car and leans against the flame-covered hood. Steve is eighteen, good-looking in a conservative, button-down, short-sleeved shirt. Most likely to succeed, president of his graduating class. He looks around the empty drive-in, then hears a funny little horn. 
A Vespa scooter bumps into the lot. A young kid waves at him-- and suddenly grabs the handlebars again as the scooter nearly topples. Terry Fields ("The Toad") maneuvers the scooter next to Steve's Chevy but misjudges and ricochets off the trash can before stopping. Terry grins sheepishly. He's seventeen, short but plenty loud, both vocally and sartorically in his pink and black shirt, levis, and white bucks. He looks slightly ridiculous but always thinks he's projecting an air of supercool. 
Steve watches Terry smooth back his shiny ducktail and primp his waterfall to a perfect cascade over his forehead. He unbuttons his shirt one more button and lowers his pants to look tough. 
Terry walks over and leans against the flamed car, imitating Steve who pays him no mind. In the background, we hear the Wolfman howling with the music. The record ends and a barrage of humor begins from Wolfman Jack. The Wolfman is an unseen companion to all the kids. Witty and knowledgeable about the trivia that counts, he's their best friend, confidant, and guardian angel. 
Now, a grey, insect-like Citroen deux-chevaux putters into the parking lot and stops on the other side of the lot. Steve and Terry watch Curt Henderson get out. 
Curt stands by his little car. He's seventeen, a curly bespectacled, scraggly kid with a summer-grown moustache and a paperback stuck in his bermuda shorts. Curt thinks of himself as the town cynic. In reality, he's a hopeless romantic. He starts over to his buddies. 
TERRY Hey, whadaya say? Curt? Last night in town, you guys gonna have a little bash before you leave? 
STEVE The Moose have been lookin' for you all day, man. 
Steve reaches into his pocket and hands Curt an envelope without saying anything. Curt opens it slowly and pulls out a check. 
CURT (sarcastic) Oh great... 
TERRY Whadaya got, whadaya got? Wow--two thousand dollars. Two thousand doll-- 
Steve looks at Curt suspiciously; Curt seems somehow guilty. 
STEVE Mr. Jenning couldn't find you, so he gave it to me to give to you. He said he's sorry it's so late, but it's the first scholarship the Moose Lodge has given out. Oh yeah, he says they're all very proud of you. 
Curt hands the envelope back to Steve. 
CURT Well... ah... why don't you hold onto it for a while? 
STEVE What's with you? It's yours! Take it! I don't want it. 
TERRY I'll take it. 
CURT Steve... Ah, I think we'd better have a talk. I've gotten- 
Suddenly a horn honks and they all turn. Laurie Henderson pulls into the drive-in and waves to them. She is driving the family's '58 Edsel. 
STEVE Your sister calls. I'll talk to you later. 
CURT Now, Steve! Let her wait. 
STEVE Okay, make it short and sweet. 
CURT Yeah, well... Listen... (clearing his throat) I... I don't think I'm going tomorrow. 
STEVE What! Come on, what are you talking about? 
CURT I don't know. I was thinking I might wait for a year... go to city-- 
Laurie honks the horn a couple of times. Steve ignores her. There is a long moment and Curt looks uncomfortable. 
STEVE You chicken fink. 
CURT Wait, let me explain-- 
STEVE You can't back out now! After all we went through to get accepted. We're finally getting out of this turkey town and now you want to crawl back into your cell--look, I gotta talk to Laurie. (he hands the check back to Curt) Now take it. We're leaving in the morning. Okay? 
Suddenly, there's an ear-splitting roar and they all turn as a yellow '32 Ford deuce coupe--chopped, lowered and sporting a Hemi-V8--bumps into the lot. The low slung classic rumbles and parks at the rear of the drive in. 
Laurie takes his ring on the chain from around her neck and puts it in her purse. 
STEVE Laurie, now, listen, I didn't ask for that back. I think that... 
LAURIE I know. I just sort of think it's juvenile now. I'll keep it at home. It's less conspicuous there. 
STEVE You don't want to wear it? 
LAURIE I didn't say that. I understand and I'm not upset. I mean, I can't expect you to be a monk or something while you're away. 
Steve just looks at her and nods. The Wolfman howls an intro to "Gee" by the Crows. Outside, skooting around the drive-in after Budda, Terry is pleading with the sexy car hop as she delivers a tray to a car. 
TERRY ...and I have a really sharp record collection. I even have "Pledging My Love" by Johnny Ace. Anyway, how can you love Nelson when he's going out with Marilyn Gator. Since he dumped on you maybe we could-- 
BUDDA He didn't dump on me, you little dip. Hi, Steve! 
Her tone changes immediately. Terry looks sour and turns around to Steve who's getting out of the chevy. Budda leaves, wiggling her butt for Steve. 
TERRY She's a little conceited--just playing hard to get. 
STEVE Listen, I came over here to talk to you about-- 
TERRY Any time, buddy. I'm your man. Nothing I like better than chewing the rug with a pal. You talk, I'll listen. I'm all ears. Shoot. 
STEVE Shut up. 
TERRY Sure. 
STEVE Terry, I'm going to let you take care of my car while we're away--at least until Christmas. I'm afraid if I leave it with my-- 
Steve notices Terry isn't with him any more and turns. Terry is standing frozen to a spot. 
STEVE What's wrong? 
Terry tries to talk, much like a shell-shocked war veteran. His mouth moves but only a gurgle comes out. 
Curt is standing by the Chevy, talking with his sister Laurie. She's still upset by what Steve said to her. 
CURT Hey, sis--what's wrong? 
LAURIE Nothing. 
Meanwhile, they watch Terry as Steve explains to him about the car. 
STEVE Now listen, only 30 weight Castrol- R. I've written the tire pressure and stuff on a pad in the glove compartment. Are you listening? 
The others are watching now as Terry shakes his head mechanically. 
CURT What's wrong, he's crying! 
There is indeed a tear rolling down Terry's cheek. 
TERRY I can't... believe... it. (He starts toward the car and gently caresses its paint.) I don't know what to say. I'll... love and protect this car until death do us part. (He circles the car.) This is a superfine machine. This may even be better than Daryl Starbird's superfleck moonbird. It is better than Daryl Starbird's. 
Laurie watches Terry, realizing that like the car, she'll be left behind as a fond memory. She turns and looks at Steve, who's been watching her. There's a moment between them... Budda comes by with an empty tray. Terry sees her and wipes his eyes. He walks up to her, a strange look on his face. 
TERRY Budda, how would you like to go to the drive-in movies with me? 
The idea is so preposterous that even Budda is speechless. She looks around at others. 
BUDDA You've got to be kidding! 
TERRY Would I kid you about a thing like that? I want you to know that something has happened to me tonight that is going to change everything. I've got a new... 
John walks up quietly and casually pulls down hard on the back pockets of Terry's low riding levis. There is general hysteria as Terry quickly pulls up his pants. 
TERRY Car!! All right, who's the wise-- (He turns and sees John and changes his tune.) Oh, John--verrry funny. (He tries to laugh with the others.) 
JOHN Hey, did she do that to you? 
STEVE Let's get going. It seems like we've spent most of our lives in this parking lot. 
TERRY Hey, Curt, let's bomb around, I wanna try out my new wheels! 
CURT I'd like to, Toad, but I'm going with Steve and Laurie to the hop. I'd just slow you down anyway. 
TERRY Yeah, tonight things are going to be different. 
JOHN Hey, wait a minute, you're goin' to the Hop? The Freshman Hop? 
CURT Yeah. 
JOHN Oh, come on, man. That place is for kids. You two just got your ass out of there. Don't go back now. 
JOHN Yeah, I know. 
PAZUDO Watch out for the cop that's in Jerry's Cherry. 
JOHN Yeah. All right, thanks. 
John nods and the two cars pull apart down the street. 
TRAVELING G STREET-STEVE'S WHITE '58 CHEVY 
The Rock and Roll blares as Terry the Toad cruises along the main drag, singing along with the music. Sitting low in his seat, he looks around, his face aglow, experiencing a new world from the inside of a really fine car. This is the greatest thing that has happened to Terry in seventeen long years of being a short loser. 
Terry turns a corner and another car pulls alongside. A guy looks out the window. 
GUY Hey, Toad. 
Terry looks over and smiles coolly, proud of his new wheels. 
GUY (leaning out the window) Is that you in that beautiful car? (Terry nods modestly) Geez, what a waste of machinery. 
Terry's smile changes to a scowl as the car pulls away from him.. Terry accounts the slight to jealousy. Then he forgets it and enjoys driving the beautiful Chevy again. Another car pulls alongside of him as he cruises along slowly. 
GIRL Hey, kid. 
Terry looks over at the car cruising next to him. In the back seat, a guy has dropped his trousers and is pushing his bare buttocks against the side window--a classic BA complete with pressed ham. Terry looks away, wondering why this is still happening to him, even in his new car. 
TRAVELING G STREET-LAURIE'S '58 EDSEL 
Curt is in the back seat gazing out the window at the dark main street of the small farm community. Steve and Laurie are talking quietly in the front seat. Laurie is sitting near the window and it sounds like Steve is convincing her to move over. Laurie finally does. His arm goes around her and her head rests on his shoulder. 
Curt is laughing as the Wolfman harasses someone on the radio. The Wolfman is placing a call. 
WOLFMAN (V.O.) Here we go with another call out of the station. Can you dig it? Answer the phone, dummy. 
MAN (V.O.) Pinkie's Pizza 
WOLFMAN Ah, yeah, listen, you got any more of those secret agent spy-scopes? 
MAN Hit parade on the stethoscope? 
WOLFMAN No. No, the secret agent spy-scope, man. That pulls in the moon, the sky and the planets... and the satellites and the little bitty space men. 
MAN You must have the wrong number, partner. 
WOLFMAN 'Bye. 
Wolfman cuts into "Why Do Fools Fall in Love." Curt is laughing in the back of the car, as he listens to the ever- present D.J. 
Steve slows the Edsel to a stop at the next light. Curt glances over at a classic white '56 Thunderbird and sits up. In the T-bird, a girl watches him. Blonde, beautiful, her hair, backlit by a used car lot, seems to glow, making her look almost ethereal. Curt doesn't move, as if afraid of scaring her away. She smiles faintly---then says something, so softly it's lost... 
CURT What? 
Curt struggles to lower his window. She repeats it, but he can't hear. The light changes. She smiles once more and is gone. 
CURT (shouting) What? What?!!! 
STEVE We didn't say anything. 
CURT Quick! Hang a right! 
STEVE What? Why? 
CURT Cut over to G Street, I've just seen a vision! She was a goddess. You've got to catch her! 
STEVE I didn't see anything. 
LAURIE We're not going to spend the night chasing girls for you. 
CURT I'm telling you, this was the most perfect, dazzling creature I've ever seen. 
STEVE She's gone. Forget it. 
CURT She spoke to me. She spoke to me, right through the window. I think she said, "I love you." 
Curt looks at his sister and Steve in the front seat. They are bored by his romantic visions. 
CURT That means nothing to you people? You have no romance, no soul? She-- someone wants me. Someone roaming the streets wants me! Will you turn the corner? 
Laurie looks around at him and seems to pity his flights of poetic fantasy. Curt sits back and shakes his head. 
PARKING LOT 
Big John sits in his deuce coupe, backed into the parking lot of the Acme Fall-out Shelter Co., the prime spot in town for girl watching. A guy in wrap-around dark glasses leans by the car next to John. They watch a group of laughing girls cruise by in a Studebaker. 
John grabs Carol by the neck and pushes her head down onto his lap so she can't be seen. John casually waves to the friend in the car cruising alongside. 
JOHN Hey, cool... 
Carol's head is being held down on his lap. She looks up at him. 
CAROL Hey, is this what they call copping a feel? 
John jumps, and immediately lets go of her as if burned. 
JOHN NO! Uh uh. N-O. Don't even say that. Jesus... 
John is beginning to sweat now. 
CAROL What's your name? 
JOHN Mud, if anybody sees you. 
CRUISING G STREET-STEVE'S '58 CHEVY 
Terry continues to cruise the main drag, slouched low and looking cool in his newly acquired machine. He adjusts his waterfall curl as the Wolfman dedicates a list of songs. He passes a group of guys bullshitting around the raised hood of a souped-up parked car. 
Terry cruises alongside two girls in a Ford. He revs the engine to get their attention and once he has it he motions to roll down their window. They flip him the bird instead and he lets them pass. 
Terry pulls up to a stop light. The car next to him is a '56 Ford--a good opponent and besides, the kid driving looks younger than Terry. 
TERRY What you got in there, kid? 
KID More than you can handle. 
Terry revs his engine. So does the Ford. The tension mounts. The green arrow for the left turn lane flashes on, the car on Terry's other side moves off, and before he can control his reflexes, Terry, too, has shot into the intersection while the light remains red! Terry quickly shifts and returns to the starting position. The other driver is grinning. 
Terry is flustered and embarrassed. Terry revs the Chevy a couple more times, concentration intently this time on the right light. 
Green!... The Ford bolts into the intersection. Terry likewise floors the gas pedal and goes crashing backwards into a large Buick. Terry is stunned for a moment, then realizes he forgot to shift into first. He fumbles to get the car into first gear. 
A distinguished looking man comes up to his window after inspecting the damage. Terry tries to escape, but in his panic the engine dies. He struggles to start it. 
OLDER MAN Excuse me, but I think we've had an accident. 
TERRY Well, goddamnit, I won't report you this time, but next time just watch it, will ya? 
Terry roars off in a cloud of indignant smoke, leaving the gentleman standing in the street looking dismayed. The cars behind him begin to honk their horns and shout crudities. 
USED CAR LOT 
Terry pulls up in front of a used car lot and jumps out to inspect the damage to Steve's Chevy. He rubs a small scratch on the back fender, but it won't disappear. As he spits on it, a slick, baggy-suited car salesman ambles up. 
SALESMAN I'll give you $525 for her on a practically new Corvette... and on top of this, I'm going to know 10% off the low price of this beautiful Vette. I'm talking about only $98 down and $98 a month. Now, how am I able to make you this incredible offer? I'll tell you! I'm forced to move all the sporty cars off the lot as quickly as I can. Boss's orders. He doesn't want 'em. I think it's a mistake, but what can I do? 
Terry begins to get worried as the salesman begins to fondle his new Chevy. He becomes frightened as the salesman attempts to drag him over to one of the 'Vettes. Finally Terry breaks away and jumps back into his car and the salesman continues to rave on as Terry drives away. 
HIGH SCHOOL GYM--"AT THE HOP" 
Herbie and the Heartbeats, wearing their matching red blazers, rock into a raunchy rendition of their masterpiece-- 
HERBIE AND THE HEARTBEATS One, two, three, four-- one, two three, four-- BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... BAH... At the hop!! 
Pulling back from the bandstand, we see the Dewey High School gym--the basketball nets swung back and draped with crepe, the lights half-low, the noise high, and the waxed floor being polished and pounded by stockinged feet as a seething mob of adolescents join in that ancient rite--The Hop. 
A hundred of them are dancing and swaying while the band gyrates on a raised platform. Kids on wooden bleachers watch the whirling and spinning mass of ponytails and ducktails, button-down shirts and mid calf skirts, cardigan sweaters with little belts in the back. 
THE GIRLS' LAVATORY 
Laurie stands in front of a mirror in a line of other girls. She brushes her hair, staring rather despondently at herself in the mirror. The girl next to her is Peg Fuller, a cute cheerleader. 
PEG Hey, why are you so depressed? You'll forget him in a week. Listen, after you're elected senior queen you'll have so many boys after your bod-- 
LAURIE I don't want to go out with anybody else. 
PEG Laurie, I know it's a drag but you can't--remember what happened to Evelyn Chelnick? When Mike went to the Marines? She had a nervous breakdown and was acting so wacky she got run over by a bus. 
LAURIE I just wish I could go with him or something. 
PEG Laurie, jeez... Come on. 
BOY'S LAVATORY 
We move down a row of sinks at which guys are working as intently on their coiffures as the girls. Ducktails being smoothed; glassy waterfalls being primped; the fronts of crew cuts being waxed to stand stiff. 
Steve stands looking at himself, then glances at Eddie Quentin standing next to him, dabbing something on his face. 
STEVE What's that? 
MR. WOLFE Curtis, come here. Help me, will you? I'm surrounded. 
GIRL You won't dance? Come on. 
MR. WOLFE No, really, I'd like to, but I can't. I mean, if old Mr. Simpson came in here and saw me dancing with one of you sexy little--excuse me... one of you young ladies, he'd have my rear end. 
GIRLS Aahhh. 
The all giggle. Mr. Wolfe shrugs at Curt and heads for a door. Curt follows him and they escape from the girls into the night. 
OUTSIDE THE GYM 
Curt and Mr. Wolfe come out of the gym. Mr. Wolfe sees a couple of guys skulking around in the shadows smoking cigarettes and laughing. The music has changed to "See You in September." 
MR. WOLFE Hey, Warren. Come on, gentlemen, back inside. Put 'em out. Let's go. 
CURT (grinning as he pulls out a pack of cigarettes) Kids... Want one? 
MR. WOLFE (taking one from the pack) All right. Hey, I thought you'd left. 
CURT No, not yet. (looking for matches) I have no matches. 
Mr. Wolfe takes out a pack of matches and lights both their cigarettes. They walk down a chain-link fence, past dark, venetian-blinded classrooms. 
MR. WOLFE Brother, how do I get stuck with dance supervision? Will you tell me that?... You going back East? Boy, I remember the day I went off. Got drunk as hell the night before. Just-- 
CURT Blotto. 
MR. WOLFE Blotto. Exactly. Barfed on the train all the next day. 
CURT (grinning) Cute. Very cute. Where'd you go again? 
MR. WOLFE Middlebury. Vermont. Got a scholarship. 
CURT And only stayed a semester. 
MR. WOLFE (smiling and nodding) One semester. And after all that, I came back here. 
CURT Why? 
MR. WOLFE (shrugging) Decided I wasn't the competitive type. I don't know... maybe I was scared. 
CURT Well, you know I might find I'm not the competitive type myself. 
MR. WOLFE What do you mean? 
CURT Well, I'm not really sure that I'm going. 
MR. WOLFE Hey, now--don't be stupid. Go. Experience life. Have some fun, Curtis. 
Then a voice calls from the shadows. 
JANE (O.S.) Bill? 
They turn and see a girl coming out of a doorway. Mr. Wolfe looks at Jane, one of his students, but doesn't say anything. 
JANE I mean--Mr. Wolfe. Can I speak with you a minute. (She smiles at Curt.) Hi, Curt. 
CURT Jane... 
He looks at Mr. Wolfe, who seems a little embarrassed. Then, Mr. Wolfe sticks out his hand. 
MR. WOLFE Anyway--good luck, Curtis. 
Curt shakes his hand. 
CURT Yeah... I'll see you. Thanks a lot. 
Curt walks back toward the gym. Looking around, he sees Mr. Wolfe standing in the shadows with the girl, talking intimately. Curt turns away and goes off. Before going back into the gym, Curt stops. He sees a white T-bird parked among a row of cars in the parking lot. He walks--then starts running toward the car. There's a blonde sitting in the front seat making out with some guy. 
Curt leans down to the window and is about to say something to his dream girl. But she turns and he sees it's not her. Her boyfriend glares at him like he's some kind of peeping Tom. Curt backs away awkwardly, trying to smile. He leaves. 
CRUISING MAIN STREET--'32 DEUCE COUPE 
The yellow Ford coupe is gliding down the street--skimming around corners gracefully as the night lights glide up its lacquered hood.  Inside the car, Carol glances at John and smiles. The Wolfman is howling on the radio. 
WOLFMAN (V.O.) A Wolfman exclusive for ya now. The Beach Boys, baby, a brand new group. I predict they gonna go a long way. This is called "Surfin' Safari." 
Carol is continuing to jabber on, relating past adventures with her little friends. John is unimpressed. 
CAROL So the next night we found out where they parked and went out with ammunition. 
JOHN Don't you have homework or something to do? 
JOHN Yes, sir. 
HOLSTEIN We know that was you tonight. We have an excellent description of this car. I could run you in right now and I could make it stick. But I'm not gonna do that, Milner, you know why? 
John shakes his head no. 
HOLSTEIN Because I want to catch you in the act. And when I do, I'm gonna nail you, but good. Happy Birthday, Milner. 
Holstein drops the ticket through the window onto John's lap. He starts back to his patrol car. When he's out of earshot John answers. 
JOHN Thank you--asshole. 
CAROL (looking over at him) You're a regular J.D. 
JOHN Here, file that under C.S. over there. 
Carol takes the ticket and opens the glove compartment. 
CAROL C.S.? What's that stand for? 
JOHN Chicken shit--that's what it is. 
CAROL Oh... 
She looks amazed as she adds the new ticket to a mess of similar tickets crammed in the glove compartment. The police car pulls by them. John scowls, then roars his engine and pulls back into the stream of traffic. 
CRUISING MAIN STREET--STEVE'S '58 CHEVY 
Terry is looking and feeling like he's got it made. He downshifts and slows for a red light. A very mean-looking black '55 Chevy--blown, scooped and slicked--pulls up next to him. The driver, Bob Falfa, has a gum-chewing girlfriend sitting almost on top of him. Terry challenges the '55 Chevy by revving his engine. 
Bob Falfa doesn't even look over. He revs his engine--which sounds like a cross between a Boeing 707 and a SuperChief. Terry can't believe it. He quits revving his engine--feeling deflated. 
Terry looks over at the snotty grin on Falfa's girlfriends' face. 
GIRLFRIEND Ain't he neat? 
Terry doesn't say anything and Bob Falfa glares over at him. 
FALFA Hey, you know a guy around here with a piss yellow deuce coupe--supposed to be hot stuff? 
TERRY You mean John Milner? 
Falfa nods slowly. 
TERRY Hey, nobody can beat him, man. He's got the fastest-- 
FALFA I ain't nobody, dork. Right? 
TERRY Right... 
FALFA Hey, you see this Milner, you tell him I'm lookin' for him, huh? Tell him I aim to blow his ass right off the road. 
GIRLFRIEND (giving another snotty smile) Ain't he neat? 
Terry doesn't say anything. There's another incredible scream as Falfa roars off, leaving Terry to stare through his smoke. Terry accelerates the '58 Chevy--at a prudent speed. 
As the radio blares "Almost Grown," Terry glides past the lighted stores slowly, taking in everything with wide eyes from his beautiful new car. 
Terry passes a steaming rear-end collision at an intersection where two guys and two girls are all yelling. 
Then, suddenly, he spots a girl--walking--alone. His mouth drops open in amazement as he slows to a crawl. Debbie, nineteen, with blonde hair, wearing a blue and white spaghetti- strap dress, strolls along the sidewalk. 
Terry rolls the powerful engine, but she ignores him. As he passes her, he speeds up. 
TERRY What a babe... what a bitchin' babe... And Wolfman Baby, she's all mine. 
Terry tears around the corner and starts his approach once more. He quickly whips out his comb, touches up his hair and settles down into a comfortable slouch. 
TERRY Okay, honey, here I come--James Dean lives! 
He hits the clutch, roars the engine a couple more times and then--disaster. Debbie passes behind some rough looking dudes on motorcycles, parked along the curb. One especially vicious biker turns and looks at Terry as he passes. 
Terry roars off around the block. 
TERRY Stay cool, honey--don't let those creeps bug you. Wolfman, please don't let those creeps bug her... please. 
As Debbie passes the bikers, they hoot, holler, and make barnyard noises. From the cat calls, and Debbie's manner it seems obvious that Debbie is a girl a lot of boys have "known." 
She has walked clear of the bikers as Terry screeches around the corner again. He pulls up alongside her and again slows to a crawl. The pass each other for awhile, but she doesn't look over. 
TERRY Hi! (lowering his voice) Hello... buenos noches? Need a lift? Nice night for a walk? Do you know John Milner? Curt Henderson? Sure you wouldn't like a ride somewhere? Did anyone ever tell you that you look just like Connie Stevens? 
This stops her and she turns--Terry hits the brakes and the car bounces. 
He takes her hand from the tucked-under-the-chin position and puts it around him, in a bear-hug. 
LAURIE You take me out? When we first met you didn't have enough sense to take the garbage out... I asked you out, remember? 
STEVE What do you mean, you asked me out! 
LAURIE Backwards Day--remember? If I had waited for you to ask me--even after that you didn't call me for two weeks. 
STEVE I was busy. 
LAURIE You were scared. Dave Oboler told me. Then when you did ask me out you didn't kiss me for three dates. 
STEVE Well--I was-- 
LAURIE Scared--Jim Kaylor told me. I even asked my father why you hadn't kissed me. 
STEVE Your father--great! 
LAURIE He said he thought you were bright and you'd probably think of kissing me after a while. 
He moans. 
LAURIE You didn't, of course. I had to. Remember that picnic? 
STEVE Out at the canyon? 
LAURIE Oh boy! You can't remember anything-- the first one, up at the lake. That was the first time you kissed me--I practically had to throw myself at you. 
STEVE (quietly) I remember. 
They continue to dance slowly. Laurie starts to cry, hating herself for it. Steve loosens a minute and looks at her. 
STEVE What's wrong? 
LAURIE Go to hell. 
He holds her tighter and they circle the floor, all alone, the crowd watching quietly, the gym echoing with "Smoke Gets in Your Eyes." 
THE GYM PARKING LOT 
Curt is leaning against a car in the parking lot. He's looking up at the stars and listening to the music floating out from the gym. 
WENDY What are you doin', stealing hub caps? 
A pretty, dark-haired girl, Wendy, slides up next to him and leans against the car. There's an awkward pause like that which happens often when two people who used to be close meet after things have changed. 
CURT Well--hey, Wendy. 
WENDY How've you been? 
CURT Fine. Great. How've you been? 
A horn honks and Wendy turns to a VW that's idling nearby. 
WENDY I'm coming--wait a sec. (turning back to Curt) She's got her car. Hey, I thought you were going away to school. 
CURT Ah, maybe... maybe. 
WENDY Same old Curt. All the time we were going together you never knew what you were doing... well, anyway, I gotta go. 
CURT Hey, Wendy--where are you going? 
WENDY Nowhere. 
CURT (smiling at her) Well, you mind if I come along? 
WENDY (affectionately) Okay. 
CURT Okay. 
They go off toward the VW and climb in. 
BACK INSIDE THE GYM 
The hop is almost over and the lights have been lowered, conservatively. Steve and Laurie hold each other, hardly moving and he kisses her. Still kissing, they continue to circle slowly--until a short, totally bald teacher comes and pokes Steve in the side. 
MR. KROOT All right, Bolander, break it up. You know the rules. You and your panting girlfriend want to do that you'll have to go someplace else. 
He gives them a disgusted look and starts off. 
STEVE Hey, Kroot! 
The teacher turns, surprised by the omission of "Mr." 
DEBBIE You know what I'd like more than anything in the world right now? 
Terry almost does a comic strip "Gulp!" 
DEBBIE I'd love a double Chubby Chuck. Isn't that what you'd like more than anything right now? 
TERRY (quietly) Sure... 
MEL'S DRIVE-IN 
The endless chrome-flashing parade continues. Among the lines of fine cars, Terry is parked in the '58 Chevy next to an order speaker on a metal pole. Terry leans out the car window and orders into the intercom. 
TERRY A double Chubby Chuck, a Mexicali Chili Barb, two orders of French fries-- 
DEBBIE And cherry cokes. 
The intercom clicks on and a garbled voice squawks back at him. 
INTERCOM Ark, wark, dork. 
TERRY (pushing the button) Now wait a minute. What? Huh? 
INTERCOM Ark, wark, dork. 
TERRY Yeah, right. Cool. 
As they wait for their order, several guys in various passing cars yell sleazy greetings to Debbie. Suddenly, a rough- looking face, belonging to Vic Lozier, pops in her window. 
VIC Hey, Deb. How's my soft baby? 
DEBBIE Beat it, Vic. I'm not your baby. 
Terry nervously pretends not to hear. 
VIC Oh, come on, honey. So I never called you back. I've been, you know, busy... 
DEBBIE Three weeks... besides, it only took one night for me to realize that if brains were dynamite, you couldn't blow your nose. 
VIC Look who's talking. Who's the wimp you're hanging out with now? Einstein? 
DEBBIE Tiger happens to be very intelligent. Unlike you. I know every thing your dirty little mind is thinking... (She looks out the window, down at Vic's pants) ...it shows... 
TERRY Hey, now-- (his voice cracks) I mean, hey now, buddy, the lady obviously doesn't-- 
VIC Look, creep, you want a knuckle sandwich? 
TERRY Ah, no thanks, I'm waiting for a double Chubby--Chuck... 
VIC Then shut your smart ass mouth! I'll call ya, Deb, some night when I'm hard up. 
DEBBIE I won't be home. 
Vic makes a kiss-off noise. She lights a match and flicks it at him. He finally leaves. 
TERRY You seem to, ah--know a lot of weird guys. 
DEBBIE That sex fiend is not a friend of mine; he's just horny. That's why I like you, you're different. 
TERRY I am? You really think I'm intelligent? 
She moves very close to him and whispers in his ear. 
DEBBIE Yeah. And I'll bet you're smart enough to get us some brew. 
TERRY Brew? 
DEBBIE Yeah. 
TERRY Brew... oh--yeah... oh, sure... (she kisses him) Yes! Liquor! This place is too crowded anyway. 
Terry backs out and drives off, leaving the approaching car hop standing in an empty parking space. 
CAR HOP What about your double Chubby Chuck, mexicali-chili-barb and (looking at the tray) --two cherry cokes, sir? 
CRUISING MAIN STREET-'57 VOLKSWAGEN 
We see the white T-bird ahead for just a moment, before it accelerates, passes a car and disappears, as we hear "Peppermint Twist" from the radio. 
In the VW, Curt is in the back, shaking the driver's seat, yelling at Bobbie. Wendy is in front next to Bobbie. 
CURT There--don't you see it? Speed up, you're losing her-- 
BOBBIE Quit shouting in my ear! 
BOBBIE Do you know Kip? 
CURT Huh? Yeah, I know him. 
BOBBIE Talk to him when we go by. 
CURT What do you want me to say? 
BOBBIE Anything... I just want to meet him. 
They pull up next to Kip's car and Curt leans forward and yells out Bobbie's window. 
CURT Kip, baby, what's up? 
KIP Henderson, long time no see. Whadaya been doing? 
CURT Not much, just wanted to let you know that Bobbie here is hopelessly in love with you and trembles at the sight of your rippling biceps... 
Bobbie swerves the car away and turns a corner. She stops on a dime at the curb. 
BOBBIE You creep, fink, son-of-a-bitch-- 
She turns and starts flailing at Curt with her purse. 
CURT Help, wait! Joke--Joke--Bobbie, remember your nose bleeds! 
BOBBIE Get out--get out of my car--I hate you! 
CURT Excuse me--ouch--Wendy--I got to go now. 
Wendy is laughing and Curt climbs over her out of the small car. He gets out and closes the door. Wendy changes seats and looks at him seriously. 
WENDY Curt, I hope I see you at registration. Call me if you want. It was nice seeing you again. 
CURT See ya. 
The car pulls off and Curt watches it. Suddenly, he sees something--the T-bird going the other way down the street. 
CURT Oh shit--there!! Wait! 
The VW's gone and Curt starts after the T-bird on foot. He runs down the middle of the street, oblivious to the horns honking and the cars swerving to miss him. 
We move with Curt as he moves like a broken field runner through the traffic only to finally lose the girl and the Thunderbird and to slow and finally stop, standing on the white line. Cars slow down and kids rubberneck as they go by him. 
CRUISING G STREET--'32 YELLOW DEUCE COUPE 
John is driving and the Wolfman is howling on the radio while Carol is having the time of her life. 
WOLFMAN (V.O.) Went to a dance lookin' for romance. Found Barbara Ann... baby... Hey, this one is for all you out there watchin' the Submarine Races. 
And the radio moans into "Who Wrote the Book of Love." Carol sits with her feet up against the dash. John knocks them off and she scowls at him. 
CAROL I'm so thirsty, I could die. Just a little 10 cent coke to wet my whistle. It won't take a minute, I can drink it in the-- 
John suddenly hits the brakes and Carol almost hits the floor. John reaches over and opens the door. 
JOHN Why don't you just get out and get one then! So long, goodbye, hasta lumbago. 
She stares at him, shaken, looking sweet and helpless. He turns and looks at her. A tear rolls down her cheek slowly. John can't take it. 
JOHN All right, one coke and then home. 
Carol is delighted. She slams the door. John takes off. 
CAROL Isn't it great, the way I can cry whenever I want. A lot of people can't do that, but Vicki showed me how. I bet you can't cry. 
JOHN Don't count on it. I may surprise you any minute now. 
MEL'S DRIVE-IN 
John cruises around the lot until he finds a space among the rows of dazzling cars. He pulls in and leans out to hit the intercom button. 
JOHN (into intercom) One ten cent coke. Is ice extra? All right, ice. 
CAROL Thanks for nothing. 
She looks around, sitting up so maybe some of her friends will see her in John's neat car. 
CAROL Oh rats, I though some of my friends might be here. 
JOHN Probably a couple of weeks past their bedtime. 
CAROL Wait, there's Dee Dee. I hope she sees me. 
TERRY (gesturing through the window from outside) Hey, no. Not wine. Ssss--hey! 
The owner turns and sees Terry waving. Terry ducks out of sight. When he looks back again, Terry sees the old bum is gone! Terry can't believe it. He finally enters the store. 
INSIDE THE LIQUOR STORE 
Terry tries to look very casual as he sidles up to the counter. Country-Western music hums over the liquor in hi- fi. 
TERRY (smiling at the owner) Hi there--ah, say--was there an old man in here a minute ago? 
OWNER Yeah. He went out the back. 
Terry is destroyed. 
OWNER You want something? 
Terry looks at the man and the endless rows of liquor behind him. 
TERRY Yeah--ah--let me have a Three Musketeers, ah, and a ball point pen ther, a comp, a pint of Old Harper, couple of flashlight batteries and some of this beef jerky. 
The owner puts everything into a bag and starts to ring it up. 
OWNER Okay, got an I.D. for the liquor? 
TERRY A what? Oh, sure-- (feeling his pockets) Oh nuts, I left it--I left it in the car. 
OWNER Sorry, you'll have to get it before-- 
TERRY Well, I can't. I also ah, forgot the car. 
The owner takes the liquor out of the bag and puts it back on the shelf. Terry stands there. The owner takes the money from him and gives him his change. 
OUTSIDE THE LIQUOR STORE 
Terry comes back to the Chevy with the bag full of junk. Debbie smiles at him excitedly and scoots over to the window. 
DEBBIE Hey, did ya get it? Ya get it, ya get it? 
He hands her the bag. 
DEBBIE You got it. You got it! 
She goes through the bag and finds a comb and the batteries. 
DEBBIE You didn't get it. Why didn't you get it? 
TERRY Ah, well, I needed some things and I thought as long as I was in there-- look, Debbie, can you loan me a dollar? 
DEBBIE What? Are you for real? Come on. Girls don't pay. Guys pay. 
TERRY Yeah, well, see--I've only got a fifty and he doesn't have change. 
DEBBIE Well, I can't believe this... I really cannot believe this. Here. 
She takes the money from a squeeze-open plastic change purse and hands it to him. Terry smiles weakly and goes back to try his luck again at the liquor store. 
He stops in front of the door as a young guy with numerous tattoos on his bulging arms approaches the liquor store. 
TERRY Hi--excuse me. I was wondering--could you, ah-- 
GUY Buy you a bottle of booze. Yeah, I know. You lost your I.D. What kind do you want? 
TERRY (amazed) Gee, that's terrific. Ah, just some ah--Old Harper. 
He takes Terry's money and enters the store. The clerk hands the man a bottle of Old Harper. Terry waves excitedly to Debbie, lowering his pants a bit. Suddenly, there's a gunshot! Terry whirls to see the young man stuffing cash from the register into his pockets, backing away with a smoking gun. He rushes out of the store, tossing the bottle to Terry and running off into the night. Suddenly, the owner emerges from behind the counter, shooting wildly. Terry ducks and heads for the car with his pint of Old Harper. 
AUTO WRECKING YARD 
John's '32 deuce coupe crunches to a gravelly stop in front of a dark auto-wrecking yard. John and Carol get out and climb over the fence. They walk through a valley of twisted, rusting piles of squashed, mashed and crushed automobiles. John sticks his hand into his pockets moodily and stops and looks at one of the burnt-out cars. 
JOHN That's Freddy Benson's Vette... he got his head on with some drunk. Never had a chance. Damn good driver, too. What a waste when somebody gets it and it ain't even their fault. 
CAROL Needs a paint job, that's for sure. 
John doesn't hear her and walks on. 
JOHN That Vette over there. Walt Hawkins, a real ding-a-ling. Wrapped it around a fig tree out on Mesa Vista with five kids in it. Draggin' with five kids in the car, how dumb can you get? All the ding-a-lings get it sooner or later. Maybe that's why they invented cars. To get rid of the ding-a-lings. Tough when they take someone with them. 
CAROL You never had a wreck though--you told me. 
JOHN I come pretty close a couple of times. Almost rolled once. So far I've been quick enough to stay out of here. The quick and the dead. 
CAROL I bet you're the fastest. 
HANK We are all proud of you, Curt. The Moose Scholarship couldn't have gone to a better boy. And if there's anything we can do, let us know. 
MR. GORDON Yeah, you'll stay in touch by letter, won't you? 
There's a knock at the screen and they turn to see Joe at the screen door. 
JOE Hey, we're all done out here. 
MR. GORDON All done? What--what's he mean? 
CURT Ah, he means, we're all done having loads of fun out here. 
MR. GORDON Oh, well... 
HANK Wonderful. You can have all the fun you want. This place is for fun. 
CURT Yes. Yes, it is. Thank you. Thank you both. 
MR. GORDON Good luck now. 
HANK Before I say goodbye, Curt, I want to tell you I hope you'll be taking along with you a little piece of this place. 
CURT I think I have. 
HANK Good. Don't forget us. 
CURT No, I won't forget you and you won't forget me. 
MR. GORDON Okay. 'Bye. 
HANK Good-bye and good luck. 
CURT 'Bye. 
JOE It was nice to meet yuh. 
CURT Right. What he said goes for me, too. 
Curt and Joe go out through the arcade toward the Mercury. They start walking faster, anxious to get away. Joe grins at Curt as they climb into the car. 
JOE Yeah, you just might make it as a Pharoah yet, boy. 
Back in the office, Hank and Mr. Gordon watch the car pull out. 
HANK Some day he'll make a fine Moose. 
THE CANAL BANK 
Steve's Chevy sits near the canal. The door is open and the radio blares, while Terry and Debbie are off somewhere in the weeds making out. 
Suddenly, a beam from a flashlight plays across the trunk. Feet approach the car as the light beam moves across the interior and stops on the vacated shoes on the front seat. 
The light beam continues past the empty bourbon bottle and starts int he direction of the field where Terry and Debbie are lost in the throes of passionate love. As we follow the light into the field we hear footsteps. 
As the darkened figure approaches the couple, we see the light go out and catch a gleam of silver in the moonlight as a switchblade springs open! 
Terry reacts to the sound. 
DEBBIE What's wrong? 
TERRY I thought I heard something. 
She kisses him and he forgets about the noise. The figure retreats back to the Chevy, where another indistinct figure waits. 
VOICE (O.S.) They're porking in the weeds. No sweat. 
Terry and Debbie are resting in the field, listening to the radio in the distance. A car engine is heard starting up and disappearing down the canal bank. 
The countryside is very quiet. Only crickets and frogs are heard as Terry begins to drop off asleep. He suddenly jumps with a start. 
TERRY Wait a minute! 
DEBBIE What? 
TERRY The radio is gone... That means--the car is gone! 
He scrambles to the spot where the Chevy once stood. 
TERRY Oh no!!! OH NO!!! 
Debbie comes up and watches Terry look heavenward. 
TERRY Oh God--I'm sorry. But, why the car? You could have struck us with lightning or something--anything--- but not the car! 
TERRY (whispering) No! I mean, no. Listen, I'll go for help, you stay here. 
Terry has turned and is starting off when she grabs him by his shirt-tail. 
DEBBIE Come on, we'll hide in the field. 
She takes Terry's hand and they go off behind some bushes, away from the black water. 
Debbie looks through the bushes, squinting. 
DEBBIE Maybe if it's the Goat Killer he'll get somebody and we'll see the whole thing. 
Terry stands with his eyes closed. 
TERRY I don't want to see the whole thing. Especially if it's us he--oh, why me? I'm going to look lousy with your legs and a goat's head and-- 
DEBBIE Shhh--he's stopped. I can't see him very--I think he's coming this way. 
She edges off to get a better view. 
TERRY Well, as long as he's not--Debbie! Debbie! 
She's gone. Terry starts off, taking one step, turns, takes another, turns, takes another. Suddenly Terry hears something behind him. He turns very slowly and looks... 
A figure is standing right behind him, silhouetted by the moon, its face obscured. Terry jumps about three feet and yells. 
STEVE (O.S.) Terry! 
TERRY Who, me? Why me? 
Terry stops yelling, seeing that it's Steve. 
STEVE Terry. 
TERRY Steve! 
Debbie comes back through the bushes and Terry looks at her nervously. 
TERRY Where'd you go, anyway? 
DEBBIE Over there. 
TERRY Well, don't go off again. Come on, let's get out of here. 
Terry and Debbie start to walk with Steve back toward town. Terry keeps taking pulls from the bottle of bourbon. 
STEVE What're you doing out here? Hey, where's my rod? 
TERRY (choking) Um, oh, did I introduce you? This is Debbie. Debbie, this is Steve. 
DEBBIE Hello. 
STEVE Hi. 
DEBBIE Hi. 
They continue to walk along the dark canal bank. 
STEVE Well, what about my car? 
TERRY Um... I'ts in the garage. I put it in the garage for safe keeping. I mean... I don't want to take any chances with it. 
STEVE Oh, great. 
DEBBIE Yeah. Yeah. It's a good thing too. 'Cause somebody stole our car. 
STEVE Really? That's terrible. What kind was it? 
TERRY Gee, ah, where's Laurie, anyway? 
STEVE I guess we broke up. 
TERRY You broke up? Bull! 
Steve just shrugs. The three of them go off into the darkness. 
CRUISING MAIN STREET-'32 YELLOW DEUCE COUPE 
The coupe makes an eccentric swerve as it cruises along the main drag. Inside, Carol is looking at the gear-shift knob that she's taken off the shift arm as they listen to "Do You Want to Dance?" 
CAROL It doesn't look like a gear shift knob. 
JOHN Come on, will ya? Give it back to me. 
JOE Yeah, I seen her, what about it? 
CURT I was just wondering who she is. 
JOE She's outta your price range, man. My brother's been with her and he clued me in. 
CURT Price range? You mean she's a-- 
JOE Yeah, Thirty Dollar Sheri. Can you believe that? Thirty dollars. 
CURT We must be thinking of different blondes. 
CARLOS Hey man, don't tell Joe what he thinks. 
ANTS Thirty dollars ain't much. I saw ten thousand once. My old man had it in a suitcase. They caught him the next morning though. 
CARLOS Fuzz ahead, watch it. 
JOE Where? 
CARLOS Fuzz ahead, watch it. 
JOE Where? 
CARLOS At Jerrie's Cherries. You can just barely see the fender. 
ANTS That's rotten, man. Hiding like that. 
CARLOS That's shitty. 
JOE It's dishonest. 
Ants gives him the evil eye. Joe watches the cop car in the used car lot as they pass it. 
JOE We oughta do something. I got an idea. I got a good idea. 
MAIN STREET 
Steve, Terry and Debbie have made it back into town from the canal. They walk past the closed stores and stop on a busy corner. 
STEVE I think I'm gonna go over to Burger City. 
TERRY Yeah. Yeah. Laurie's probably over there. 
STEVE You really think she's got me worried about where she is, don't you? 
TERRY Well... 
STEVE Let me tell you something. I couldn't care less. Want to come along? 
DEBBIE Yeah, I do. I do. 
TERRY No. 
STEVE Make up your minds. 
TERRY No, thanks. U'mm. You know we got to report the car missing. 
STEVE All right. See yuh. 
TERRY Yeah. See yuh. 
Steve goes off and Debbie looks at Terry. 
DEBBIE Why can't we go to Burger City? 
TERRY Burger City? Burger City!!? How can you think of hamburgers when somebody stole my car. 
She looks hurt and starts off. 
ALLEY BEHIND JERRY'S CHERRIES USED-CAR LOT 
Curt is getting out of the low-slung Merc and Joe saunters around from the driver's side. He smiles, friendly like-- 
JOE Listen, ah--Carl, I-- 
CURT Curt. 
JOE Curt. 
He nods at Curt, looking cautiously around the dark lot. 
JOE Despite you scratching Gil's car, I like you. And I know what you'd like more than anything right now. Like every guy in town, you got the same secret dream, right? 
A DARK ROAD OUTSIDE TOWN--DEUCE COUPE 
John has glided off the main drag and into a residential area. Everything is dark and quiet as the adult population sleeps through the night. John pulls the coupe to the curb and turns off the engine. He turns out the lights. 
Inside the car, there's silence. Only the clock ticking. Carol looks over at John a little nervously. 
CAROL Why are we stopping here? 
John looks at her and his arm slides along the back of the seat above her. She notices his arm and the fact that he's moving slowly toward her. 
JOHN (in a husky voice) Carol... 
CAROL What? 
JOHN I--I don't think that I can control myself any longer. 
CAROL You can't? 
JOHN No... Carol, I've got to have you. 
CAROL Me? 
He touches her hair and she slouches back into her corner fearfully. 
JOHN All night you've been sitting there and you've been so sexy and it's been so hot--and I can't wait any more... 
CAROL Well--well, a lot of that's an act, you know. Like... like my crying. It was just an act. 
JOHN Well, it's been building up inside of me like a volcano, all night. Maybe if I knew where you lived I could fight it--I could take you home--but since you won't tell me, and since here we are--I've got to have you. It's too late-- 
CAROL It's not too late! It's never too late! 231 Ramona--two three one-- 
JOHN (smiling) Two three one-- 
CAROL I'll show you! It's easy to find. 
John starts the car engine. Carol looks very relieved. The yellow deuce coupe roars off down the dark street. 
MEL'S DRIVE-IN 
Steve sits in the almost empty cafe section of Burger City. He stirs a coffee and mulls over the night's events in his mind. A door opens and Budda Macrae comes in. She watches him a moment, then takes off her little Bell Boy Cap and gets a cup of coffee for herself. 
Steve looks up as she comes over on her roller skates. 
BUDDA Hi. You mind if I sit down? 
STEVE Hi Budda. No, have a seat. 
BUDDA I got five minutes outa the rat race, and I saw you all alone. For a change. 
She drinks her coffee and he looks out the window thinking about something else. 
BUDDA Where's Laurie? 
STEVE I don't know. 
BUDDA I thought the two of you'd be going strong, this being your last night and everything-- 
STEVE We broke up. 
Budda looks surprised. 
STEVE No big deal. 
BUDDA Wow... what happened? 
STEVE Nothing. We were out at the canal and... we had a fight. 
Budda smiles and he looks at her strangely. 
STEVE What's so funny? 
BUDDA Nothing. Just thinking. A girl like Laurie--I mean, she goes to school and is cute and popular and all, but we're not so different. We know what we want. I've seen her after you for two years now. 
STEVE She's not like that. 
BUDDA Maybe not. She does have a different approach. Hers is "Never surrender," me I lay down my arms at the drop of a hat-- 
VOICE (O.S.) Budda, you got an hour left, let's get on it. 
BUDDA (yelling back) All right, relax... old fart. Listen, I'm off in an hour. If you wanta come over, my girlfriend's away for the weekend. 
STEVE I don't know... 
Falfa looks surprised. The light changes, and he follows her to the curb. Laurie takes a deep breath, and with a determined look, gets out and walks back to his car. She gets in and closes the door. They start off. He looks over and smiles. 
FALFA Hey Hey Hey, baby, what do you say? 
LAURIE Just don't say anything and we'll get along fine. 
Falfa is puzzled by the frigidity in the air. He glances at her then back at the road, wondering about this strange chick. 
RESIDENTIAL STREET--DEUCE COUPE 
The coupe slows in front of a modest California ranch-style home. John stops the car and turns off the engine. He looks over at Carol, who seems lost in thought. 
JOHN This the first time you've been quiet all night. 
CAROL I had fun. Goodbye. 
She sits for a moment, about to say something. 
CAROL Do you like me? 
JOHN Yeah. I like you. You're all right. 
CAROL But I mean, do you like me? 
JOHN I, ah... I like you. Okay? 
CAROL Couldn't I have something to remember you by? 
John gives in to her sweet gaze. He takes off the gearshift knob, gives it to her, and leans over and gives her a kiss. 
JOHN 'Bye, kid. 
CAROL Gee, thanks. It's just like a ring or something. 
JOHN Yeah. 
CAROL It's like we were going steady. Wait'll I tell Marcia. 
JOHN Wait a minute, now. 
CAROL Wait'll I tell everybody. 
JOHN Don't go overboard with this thing. 
CAROL Well, I'll see you around. 
She jumps out of the car and runs up the walk to the house. He watches her stop at the screen door and turn. She gives him a little wave, then goes inside. 
John looks over at the empty seat next to him and seems a little sad. He starts the engine and drives off slowly. 
WOLFMAN (V.O.) I haven't cried so much. And the tears and everything, man... I leaned down towards the microphone and I almost shorted myself out. 
OUTSIDE MEL'S DRIVE-IN 
Curt has the font hood up on the beetle-like Citroen and is fooling with the recalcitrant engine. Steve is standing beside him. 
CURT Hold that up. 
STEVE (taking the hood from him) I've been thinking--maybe you're right. Why should I leave home to find a new home. Why should I leave friends that I love to find new friends? 
CURT Wait a minute, wait a minute. I've heard this already. Aren't you the one who for eight weeks has been telling me you have to leave the nest sometime? 
STEVE I realize that. I realize-- 
CURT No--no realizing. You've been telling me all summer that it's time to pull your head out of the sand and take a look at the big, beautiful world out there. Gimme this thing. 
STEVE (letting him close the hood) I don't know--I-- 
CURT (banging the Citroen hood shut) I feel like a mid-wife. 
STEVE I guess I was wrong. I may have been wrong. 
CURT Wrong nothing. You've been talking about getting out of this town for eight weeks. And now--goddamnit!-- you're just--you're just mentally playing with yourself. If you can just relax, we'll talk about it at the airport. 
Curt walks around the side of the car and opens the door. 
STEVE Where are you going? It's awfully early in the morning. 
CURT I have a dental appointment. 
STEVE Come on, Curt... 
CURT Just relax, wil ya? I'll see you at the airport. 
MANAGER What do you want? 
Through the window, Curt can be seen but no sound is heard. 
MANAGER Pull the red switch. 
CURT I'm looking for a girl. 
MANAGER Aren't we all. She ain't here. Come on back to the booth. 
Curt walks around through a few more glass doors and ends up in the booth with the manager. 
The manager sits down and leans back, turning a fan to blow on his large chest. He's a large, friendly looking man; he wears a Hawaiian shirt. He sucks on a popsicle. Curt stands awkwardly. 
MANAGER Hey, have a popsicle. The ice box just broke down and they're meltin' all over the place. You want one? 
CURT No. Thanks. Listen, ah... 
MANAGER Have a popsicle. 
CURT Are you the Wolfman? 
MANAGER No, man. I'm not the Wolfman. 
The manager leans forward and picks up a spool of tape. He holds it up as a magician would for audience inspection, then puts it on a machine. A record is about to end. As it does the manager punches some buttons and the record segues into a Wolfman howl and then the distinctive Wolfman voice takes over. The manager adjusts the monitor volume down and sucks his popsicle. 
WOLFMAN (V.O.) Who is this on the Wolfman's telephone? 
DIANE (V.O.) Diane. 
WOLFMAN How're you doin', Diane? 
DIANE All right. 
The station manager smiles at Curt, who is watching the tape and blinking lights of the large console. 
MANAGER That's the Wolfman. 
CURT He's on tape. The man is on tape. 
WOLFMAN (V.O.) Do you love me? Say you love me, Diane. 
CURT Well, ah--where does he work? I mean, where is the Wolfman now? 
MANAGER The Wolfman is everywhere. 
CURT But I got to give him this note. 
MANAGER (taking it from Curt) Here, let me see the note. (he reads it) Hell, that's just a dedication. All I gotta do is relay it. And it'll be on the air tomorrow, or Tuesday at the latest. 
CURT No, no. See, this is very important. I may be leaving town tomorrow, and it's very important that I--damn it, that I reach this girl right now. 
MANAGER You don't know whether you're gonna leave town or not? 
CURT Well, I'm supposed to go to college back East tomorrow. And I don't know if I'm gonna go. 
MANAGER Wait a minute. Have a popsicle. 
CURT No, thank you. 
MANAGER Sit down a minute. 
Curt sits down, undecided about leaving and upset about not being able to get in touch with the lovely creature he saw earlier that night. 
MANAGER Listen, it's early in the morning. Now, I can't really talk for the Wolfman. But I think if he was here he'd tell you to get your ass in gear. Now, no offense to your home town here, but this place ain't exactly the hub of the universe, if you know what I mean. And well--I'll tell you this much--the Wolfman does come in here now and then, with tapes, to check up on me, you know, and when I hear the stories he got about the places he goes. Hell, here I sit while there's a big beautiful world out there, don't ya know. Wolfman comes in last time talking about some exotic jungle country, handing me cigars he says was rolled on the naked thighs of brown beauties. The Wolfman been everywhere and he seen everything. He got so many stories, so many memories. And here I sit sucking on popsicles. 
Curt looks at him a moment. 
CURT Why don't you leave? 
MANAGER Well, I'm no kid anymore. I been here a long time. And the Wolfman-- well, the Wolfman gave me my start and he's sorta become my life. I can't leave him now. Gotta be loyal to the Wolfman, you understand. 
Curt nods and stands. The manager swivels around and punches some buttons, putting on a commercial. 
He turns back. 
MANAGER I tell you what. If I can possibly do it tonight, I'll try to relay this dedication and get it on the air for you later on. 
CURT That'd be great. Thanks. Really. 
He shakes the manager's hand, then wipes it on his pants. 
MANAGER Sorry, sticky little mothers ain't they? Bye. 
Both drivers start revvin' their engines; the tension builds. Terry looks nervous, the engines start to scream and Terry, his hands shaking on the flashlight, manages to flash it on. 
Both cars roar off the starting line, tires smoking and screaming. Terry has his hands over his head and is coughing in a cloud of smoke as they pass. John beats Falfa off the line. 
Out on the road, as they hit third gear, the cars are almost neck and neck. Inside Falfa's car, Laurie looks scared to death. Falfa looks insane as he tromps it. 
John hits fourth at about eighty-five. Falfa does likewise-- but starts to fish-tail. Laurie closes her eyes, almost crying-- Falfa regains control nervously. 
Falfa's engine is winding out incredibly and he begins to get the edge on John. The cars rocket through the dawn light along the flashing white line until suddenly Falfa's car blows a tire, his front wheel slips off and the car shoots off into a tomato field, hits an irrigation ditch and begins flipping over wildly in a horrifying cloud of dust and smoke-- 
John sees the Chevy leaving the road and screams to a halt, swimming through an unbelievable U-turn and high tailing it back to the crash site. He is out of the car like a bullet, running across the dirty cloddy field. The crash car is beginning to burn in the engine compartment and John is panicked. 
Meanwhile, the spectators have arrived, including Steve, who jumps from his car and is running across the field. 
Steve and John arrive at the fire at approximately the same time. They stop, the flames are getting higher, burning up into the trees now. Steve looks around wildly--he sees John and goes at him. 
STEVE You stupid sonofabitch, she was in that car! Why did you have-- 
He takes a couple of swings at John, who finally manages to tackle him around the waist. They both get up looking at the flaming wreckage. Then John moves around the side, crouching, trying to see past the flames--suddenly, he stands and motions to Steve to come over. They both circle the wreck. 
Around behind the flaming car Falfa is standing in a state of shock watching the car go up in smoke, while Laurie is circling him, screaming and beating him with her purse. 
LAURIE I said I didn't--you lousy greasy jerk! You coulda killed me--what's wrong with you. You clubfoot... 
She beats at him, crying hysterically. Steve runs over and grabs her, pulling her away. She fights at Steve, too, not knowing what's going on. 
LAURIE No, no, no. Please, don't come near me. No, please. I think I'm gonna be sick. Oh, Steven. 
STEVE Laurie, please. 
Standing in the early light, Steve holds her. She throws her arms around him as the crowd develops along the irrigation ditch to watch the flaming car. 
LAURIE Oh, Steven! Oh, Steven, please, don't leave me. Don't leave me, Steven. 
STEVE I won't. 
LAURIE I couldn't bear it. 
STEVE I won't. 
LAURIE Please. 
STEVE Believe me. 
John looks at Falfa who's shaking his head, watching the car dissolve. 
JOHN Come on, before she blows. 
He pulls him off by the neck of the shirt and when they're a few yards off, Falfa's '55 Chevy does blow--exploding like a small A-bomb, blowing it into Modesto history. 
Back on the road, John is heading toward his car, its engine still running, its door open. Terry runs up, trotting alongside John like a puppy. 
TERRY Jeez, did you show him! He'll probably never even get in a car again. 
JOHN He was faster. 
TERRY It was beautiful, John. Just beauti-- what? 
John stops by the open door of the deuce coupe. Terry stares at him and squints against the rising sun. 
JOHN I was losin', man. 
TERRY What? 
JOHN He had me, man. He was pullin' away from me just before he crashed. 
TERRY You're crazy. 
JOHN You saw it. 
TERRY No, you creamed him, from right off the line. The guy never had a chance. 
JOHN Shit, Toad. The man had me. He was beating me. 
TERRY John, I don't know what you're talking about. It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. That guy, he might as well get a wheelchair and roll himself home. Man, you got... you got the bitchinist car in the Valley. You'll always be number one, John. You're the greatest. 
John nods, then looks up at Terry. His face is glowing, his glasses are smashed and his lip is swollen. John smiles. 
JOHN Look at your glasses, man. (shaking his head) Okay, Toad. We'll take 'em all. 
TERRY (grinning) Right. 
JOHN We'll take em... let's get out of here. 
