THE AMITYVILLE ASYLUM 
Written by 
Andrew Jones 
SHOOTING SCRIPT 27TH JULY 2012 
Against BLACK SCREEN a TITLE CARD appears: 
"The boundaries which divide Life from Death are at best shadowy and vague. Who shall say where the one ends, and where the other begins?" - Edgar Allan Poe 
TITLE CARD dissolves. 
FADE IN: 
1.EXT. 112 OCEAN AVENUE ­ AMITYVILLE ­ NIGHT 
We slowly pan through a suburban neighbourhood located on the south shore of Long Island. The still shroud of night blankets the village of Amityville in the early morning hours. 
TITLE CARD Appears: 
Thursday, November 14, 1974. 
TITLE CARD Dissolves. 
Stray house pets are the only signs of life as families and neighbours slumber. We reach 112 Ocean Avenue, a large Dutch Colonial house. The home is a classic piece of Americana, two stories plus an attic, several rooms, and a boathouse on the Amityville River. There are quarter round windows on the top floor that give the appearance of eyes staring back at us. 
A signpost in the front yard reads "HIGH HOPES", a testament to what the home symbolizes for the family that live there. 
CUT TO: 
2.INT. BASEMENT ­ 112 OCEAN AVENUE ­ CONTINUOUS 
We move slowly through the basement, past various crushed beer cans and a table full of drug paraphernalia, until we reach a bearded man in his early twenties. RONALD DEFEO JUNIOR, known to his family and friends as BUTCH. He sits on a ragged sofa, dozing off in front of a small Television that displays white static. 
There is a digital clock on a small table by the side of the sofa. It reads 3:14am. We hold on the clock and the time changes to 3:15am. We can see DeFeo's breath drift from his 
lips as cold air sweeps through the room. His eyes snap open. A hooded figure, face shrouded in darkness, steps from the shadows. The figure carries a .35 caliber lever action Marlin 336C rifle. Hands clad in black leather gloves, the mysterious person holds the rifle out in front of Butch. A voice emerges from beneath the hood that is so deep as to be INHUMAN: 
FIGURE Kill them. Kill them all. 
Butch stands and takes the rifle. The figure retreats back into the shadows. 
CUT TO: 
3.INT. HALLWAY ­ CONTINUOUS 
The house is silent. Butch quietly stalks the hallways, the rifle grasped tightly in his hands. 
CUT TO: 
4.INT. MASTER BEDROOM ­ CONTINUOUS 
NANCY (O.S) How did it go today? 
LISA It was a total fucking disaster! 
NANCY (O.S) Oh I'm sure you're just being silly hun! Whenever I've gone for an interview I always come out thinking it's gone really badly. But I bet it went better than you think. 
LISA I sneezed on the head of the institution. 
NANCY (O.S) You what?? 
LISA I sneezed on him! It was one of those sneezes that just sneaks up on you, I didn't have time to cover my face. Before you know it he's covered in my snot! 
NANCY (O.S) Oh God I'm sorry hun. 
Long silence on the line. 
LISA Go on, go ahead. You know you want to! 
NANCY (O.S) [HYSTERIAL LAUGHTER] 
LISA Laugh it up, it's gonna be your last chance because I'm not going for any more job interviews! I'm done, I'm always so damn nervous and I just don't make a good first impression. 
NANCY (O.S) You should take my advice and show a little cleavage at these interviews! Trust me, you'd get the job then! 
LISA That's just not me Nance. I wouldn't know where to start with flirting or any of that. Christ, if I wore high heels to one of these interviews I'd probably trip over! I'm a clumsy dork! 
NANCY (O.S) So what are you thinking of doing? 
LISA I dunno. Thanks for not disputing that dork remark by the way. 
NANCY (O.S) [Laughs] Sorry, hun! 
LISA I guess I'll have to sign on welfare to make the rent. Long term, maybe I should go back to school. Get better qualified for something. 
NANCY (O.S) How come you don't do something with your writing? You could try and get something published. Or write a book or something? 
LISA I dunno, I just... it's like I just haven't been able to bring myself to write since ... you know... 
NANCY (O.S) I know. It's a cliché, but time really is a healer. I'm sure the passion you had for it will come back. 
LISA Maybe. 
NANCY (O.S) You wanna talk about it? 
LISA Not really. I just think I'm gonna get myself a nice big tub of ice cream from the freezer and watch some TV. 
NANCY (O.S) Comfort eating! 
LISA [Smiles] I know but if there's ever a good time for ice cream it's today! 
NANCY (O.S) Can't argue with that! Give me a call tomorrow, let's go for coffee soon yeah? 
LISA Sure. Night. 
MAN Can I help you? 
LISA Yeah, I'm here for an induction into the cleaning job. 
MAN You must be Lisa? 
LISA Yes, that's right. 
MAN Doctor Mixter said you would be coming. I'm Delaney, we'll be working together. 
LISA Oh great. 
Delaney climbs off the step ladder and shakes Lisa's hand. 
DELANEY We work nights so today we'll just show you around, okay? 
LISA Okay, thank you. 
DELANEY I'll clean this up and we'll get to it. 
CUT TO: 
19.INT. STORAGE CUPBOARD ­ LATER Delaney opens the cupboard door and for a moment he and Lisa are silhouetted in the doorway. Delaney pulls a string hanging near the door and a light comes on. The cupboard is packed with various cleaning products. DELANEY This is the storage cupboard. Everything you will need for each 
task is here, each shelf is labelled. 
LISA Okay. 
DELANEY The most obvious task is hoovering. This is our hoover here, it's straight forward. You'll be surprised that although it's powerful it's very quiet, because we are working when everyone's in bed so obviously we don't want to wake them up! It has a Telescopic suction tube and six stage filter system. So a lot more powerful than you may be used to. 
LISA Okay. 
DELANEY The mop and bucket is here, we usually use standard bleach to mix with the water so that's straight forward. But there is this specialist stain remover that you must use if there are any stains on the floor or carpet. It needs to be sprayed and left to set for twenty minutes before scrubbing or mopping. It's a special formula for tea, coffee, water marks and other yellow and brown discolourations on the carpets or floors. It's pretty strong so wash your hands after you use it! 
LISA OKAY 
DELANEY One of the worst parts of the job is we have to remove chewing gum from lots of surfaces. They don't just stick it underneath the tables, it ends up everywhere! 
LISA Gross! 
DELANEY Yes! I think a lot of the time it's the staff doing it, not the patients! But we have this GumCart, which is a bit complicated but it's easier than just scraping the gum. The steam is super heated to one hundred eighty degrees and delivered at seven point zero bar pressure. It can produce a hundred and fifteen litres of superheated steam per minute. 
LISA Is it okay if I watch you use it a few times first so I know exactly what I'm doing? I don't want to end up burning myself or any furniture! 
Delaney smiles. 
DELANEY No problem. Now here we come to the most dangerous chemical we have. This is a concrete cleaner, very toxic stuff, so you have to wear the face mask and gloves we have here, okay? 
LISA Okay. 
DELANEY This is for cleaning and descaling brick, stone and concrete and for metal de-rusting. For concrete you must mix it one part to four parts water. Brush or spray it on with the equipment here then leave it five to ten minutes to set, then rinse it off. But for those stubborn son-of-a-bitch marks use it neat! 
LISA Okay. 
LISA Sounds ominous. 
DELANEY You could say that. It's where Category A patients are held. The criminally insane. 
LISA Really? Doctor Mixter didn't mention that. 
DELANEY Yes, well, these patients are beyond help so they've become athe hospital's secret. Many of them were transferred from prisons and other institutions. Doctor Mixter probably thought he could help them. He can't. The staff call this place Blood Row. 
Delaney opens the door. 
CUT TO: 
22.INT. STAIRCASE ­ CONTINUOUS 
Lisa follows Delaney down a winding staircase. As they descend down the steps, the light fades. 
CUT TO: 
23.INT. WARD X ­ CONTINUOUS 
Delaney and Lisa enter a long dark corridor with a row of thick metal doors either side. Two light bulbs hang from the ceiling at each end of the corridor, providing only minimal illumination. Lisa's nose twitches. 
LISA What's that smell? 
DELANEY It always hangs in the air. No matter how much we bleach the floor there is always that smell of death. 
Lisa looks concerned. 
LISA These patients are dangerous? 
DELANEY Yes. But don't worry, we never have to interact directly or anything like that. You will just be mopping the corridor and dusting. 
Delaney walks over to the first door on the right. There is a hatch on the door. Delaney slowly slides it open and beckons Lisa over. She peers inside. The cell is very basic, white walls with the only furniture being an uncomfortable looking bed and a toilet without a seat. There are thick iron bars on one small window. A skinny man in his thirties sits on a basic bed in a white vest, rocking back and forth. He has wild hair and a scraggly beard. 
DELANEY That's Jerry Kimble. He was convicted of stabbing a young mother forty-nine times in front of her two year-old son, then killing and sexually assaulting a woman before smothering her four-year-old daughter. They call him the Green Chain Rapist. He was in Sing Sing but was certified insane and his lawyer got him transferred here. He doesn't make any noise or fuss, but he is a dangerous man. Especially towards women. This next inmate is even worse. Delaney slides the hatch shut and walks over to the next door. He slowly slides open the hatch and Lisa peers inside. Another basic white cell with only a bed and toilet. A man stands in the centre of the room with his hands behind his back. His hair is slicked back, as jet black as the eyes that stare at Lisa. He smiles. Delaney slides the hatch shut. DELANEY That's Dennis Palmer. Also known as The Long Island Cannibal. He was abused as a child so his targets were always paedophiles and rapists. He'd track them down and torture them. He would eat parts of their body while they were still alive. 
LISA That's horrible. 
DELANEY The most horrible thing is that a lot of the public thought he was a hero. 
Delaney walks over to a door on the opposite side of the hallway. He slides open the hatch. 
DELANEY Sadie Krenwinkel. 
Lisa looks inside. Inside the basic cell a woman sits cross legged on her bed. She has long flowing black hair, intense eyes and a pentagram carved into her forehead. She looks up and smiles at Lisa. Delaney slides the hatch shut. 
LISA What's her deal? 
DELANEY She was a member of a Witchcraft cult. They kidnapped six people for a demonic ritual. Five were killed but one got away and led police to the cult. She turned her trial into a circus, talking about lots of crazy stuff. The media enjoyed it but she got certified insane by the court. She's been around a few institutions since. Now she's here. 
LISA Some strange stories here. 
DELANEY Well those aren't the strangest. 
The girl walks away. 
CUT TO: 
27.INT. STORAGE CUPBOARD ­ NIGHT 
Lisa is returning the mop and bucket to the storage cupboard. She knocks a bottle off the shelf and leans over to pick it up. 
POV SHOT: Someone is approaching Lisa, edging closer and closer. A hand stretches out and touches her shoulder. Lisa JUMPS and SMACKS her head on the underside of the bottom shelf. 
LISA Fuck!! 
Lisa turns around to see Delaney standing there. 
DELANEY Sorry, I didn't mean to startle you. 
LISA It's okay. 
Lisa rubs her head. 
DELANEY Are you okay? 
LISA Yeah, just hurt that's all! 
DELANEY Sorry. 
LISA I'll live. 
DELANEY Do you want to grab a coffee? 
LISA Sure. 
CUT TO: 
28.INT. HALLWAY ­ LATER 
Delaney and Lisa are sat on a bench in the hallway sipping coffee from plastic cups. 
DELANEY Did you change the bins in the Day Room? 
LISA Yeah. 
DELANEY Good. I've got a light bulb to change in Room Twelve upstairs soon. We're making good time. 
LISA Cool. It's funny, I never thought I'd get this job. The interview didn't go well! 
DELANEY Doctor Mixter told me you were the only person he interviewed for the job. 
LISA Really? 
DELANEY Yeah. I'm sure he felt you were right for the job and didn't need to interview anyone else. 
LISA Cool. 
LISA What kind of favour? 
PEMBERTON A blow job. 
Lisa's face contorts with disgust. 
LISA You're disgusting! 
Lisa tries to leave the room but Pemberton stands in her way. 
PEMBERTON Oh come on, I bet you'd love it. LISA Look, you better get out of my way or I'm going to report you for sexual harassment. 
PEMBERTON You've been working here for five minutes. You really think Doctor Mixter is gonna believe a fucking cleaner over a medical professional? 
DELANEY Pemberton! 
Pemberton spins around. Delaney is stood in the door way. 
DELANEY Leave her alone. 
Pemberton laughs. 
PEMBERTON She ain't no prisoner here! I was just talking, what's the problem? 
DELANEY No problem. Lisa, come with me, we've got a job up on Ward B. A grateful Lisa brushes past Pemberton and exits the room. Delaney glares at Pemberton for a moment before leaving the room. Pemberton smirks. 
CUT TO: 
35.INT. HALLWAY ­ CONTINUOUS 
Delaney catches up with Lisa, who is a little emotional. 
DELANEY You okay? 
LISA I'm fine. It was just a little bit intimidating, y'know? 
DELANEY Pemberton can be like that. He works nights with that other son- of-a-bitch Hardcastle. They like to throw their weight around. You'll get used to it. 
LISA People like that shouldn't be in charge of patients. 
DELANEY Let's get a coffee. 
LISA You sure love your break times! 
Delaney laughs. 
DELANEY I like to pace myself! Lisa smiles. 
CUT TO: 
36.TIME LAPSE: Passage from night to day and back again. 
CUT TO: 
CUT TO: 
39.INT. WARD B ­ CONTINOUS 
Lisa and Hardcastle walk into the day room. The room is empty. 
HARDCASTLE Where is this patient huh? 
LISA She was right there, in that chair. 
HARDCASTLE Who? 
LISA Missus Hardesty. 
HARDCASTLE Missus Hardesty? 
LISA Yeah. She even spoke to me! 
Hardcastle bursts out laughing. 
HARDCASTLE Missus Hardesty was here and she spoke to you? 
LISA Yes! 
HARDCASTLE Just a second... 
Hardcastle steps out into the hallway. A few moments later Hardcastle re-enters the day room with Pemberton. 
HARDCASTLE The new girl here says that Missus Hardesty was just sat in that chair. Says she even spoke to her. 
Pemberton chuckles. 
LISA Look I know she's supposed to be catatonic but I swear she said something to me! 
PEMBERTON That's not the strange thing, sweetheart. 
LISA What do you mean? 
PEMBERTON Missus Hardesty died this morning. 
The blood drains from Lisa's face. 
LISA But I could have sworn... 
HARDCASTLE Listen newbie, how about you just get on with the cleaning and stay off the crack pipe. Okay, honey bunny? Pemberton and Hardcastle both laugh and leave the room. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
40.INT. HALLWAY ­ HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL ­ NIGHT 
Lisa is sweeping in the hallway. She looks up and just catches a glimpse of someone turn the corner up ahead. 
LISA Hello? 
wall, the contorted face of a crucified Jesus Christ stares at her. Blood seeps from the crown of thorns and runs down Christ's face. As Lisa gets closer to the altar she sees a female figure sat in the front pew. Lisa ebbs closer. The figure turns. It's LISA'S MOTHER. LISA'S MOTHER Don't you grieve for me? 
LISA Of course I do. Suddenly tears of BLOOD run down Lisa's cheeks. Lisa's mother reaches out a hand. Lisa stretches her arm out to grab her mother's hand. Everything is in slow motion, it seems to take Lisa forever to reach her mother's hand. Suddenly a BLACK GLOVED HAND grabs her outstretched arm. She turns to see a HOODED FIGURE, face shrouded in darkness, standing next to her. A deep voice echoes around the church: 
FIGURE Kill them. Kill them all. 
CUT TO: 
46.INT. BEDROOM ­ LISA'S HOME ­ CONTINUOUS 
Lisa's eyes OPEN and she sits bolt upright. She is pale and soaked with sweat. It takes her a few moments to compose herself and realise that it was just a nightmare. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
47.EXT. HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL ­ NIGHT 
The rain lashes down outside the institution. 
CUT TO: 
48.INT. HALLWAY ­ HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL ­ NIGHT 
Lisa is walking with Delaney. 
DELANEY Okay, next thing is mopping the floor in Ward X. 
LISA Umm... could you do that? 
DELANEY Why? 
LISA I dunno... I just need a break. 
DELANEY Does Ward X frighten you? 
LISA A little. 
DELANEY That's normal, it frightens me sometimes. But I've got to go up to a patient's room in Ward A. Apparently they've had a little accident. Surely you wouldn't prefer to clean that up? 
LISA Well... maybe not. 
DELANEY I know Ward X is a scary place. But you'll get used to it. 
LISA I can hear them talking. It's kinda unnerving. 
DELANEY I know, I hear that too when I'm down there. But trust me, once you get used to it things will get easier. 
CUT TO: 
49.INT. WARD X ­ LATER 
The door creaks open. Lisa looks nervous. She walks in with her mop and bucket and heads to the end of the corridor. She begins mopping the floor. As she mops past Sadie's cell she hears a knock on the inside of the cell door. 
SADIE I can hear you out there. 
58.INT. WARD X ­ CONTINUOUS 
Hardcastle enters. He sees the door of Palmer' cell open and slams a large red button on the wall next to the entrance. Hardcastle takes out his truncheon and cautiously approaches Palmer' cell. Looking inside he sees Pemberton crumpled on the floor in a pool of his own blood. 
HARDCASTLE Shit! 
A SCREAM emerges from the next cell. Hardcastle rushes over to Kimble's cell door. Five orderlies rush onto the Ward. HARDCASTLE We got a major code six over here! The orderlies rush to Hardcastle's side, truncheons at the ready. Hardcastle puts a key in the lock and prepares to open Kimble's cell. 
HARDCASTLE Stay alert! 
Hardcastle turns the key and kicks open the door. They are met by the sight of KIMBLE's corpse positioned upright on the toilet. There is a hole in his head with part of his BRAIN seeping out. Palmer stands next to him, with blood on his lips and a plastic spoon in his hand. He smiles, blood covering his teeth. 
PALMER Good evening gentleman. I believe we will be one short at roll call tomorrow morning. Hardcastle and the orderlies charge Palmer. He doesn't resist as they viscously tackle him to the ground. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
59.INT. HALLWAY ­ HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL ­ LATER 
Lisa is walking down the hallway. She hears a SCREAM emerge from one of the rooms. She puts her ear to the door and hears the SCREAM again. Lisa kneels down and peers through the keyhole. In a clinical white room Palmer is strapped down on a table. His face is severely cut and bruised but he is conscious. Four orderlies hold his arms and legs while a fifth smears conductor on Palmer temples. 
ORDERLY #1 Do we need to put the bit in his mouth? 
ORDERLY #2 No. We're not giving him the methohexital either. 
The orderly places electrodes either side of Palmer' head. He then turns the dial on the ECT device up to full power. Palmer SCREAMS as he violently convulses, salivating heavily from his mouth. Suddenly the saliva turns to blood as he bites his own tongue off. Lisa is horrified as she watches the orderlies laugh as Palmer experiences a severe seizure. 
POV Shot: Someone is approaching Lisa as she crouches in front of the door. A hand reaches out and GRABS her by the hair,YANKING her to her feet. Lisa SCREAMS. She turns to see Hardcastle standing in front of her. He invades her personal space in an intimidating manner. 
HARDCASTLE What the fuck are you doing?? 
LISA I just heard something so I ... I was just curious. 
HARDCASTLE What are you seeing in there? 
LISA Oh nothing, I didn't see anything. 
HARDCASTLE You make sure it stays that way. That guy is a fucking menace and he deserves everything he gets. So you don't talk to Mixter or anyone else about anything you've seen in there. You understand? 
LISA I won't say anything. 
HARDCASTLE Good. Now don't you got some cleaning to do somewhere? 
LISA Of course. 
Lisa walks down the hallway. Hardcastle's eyes burn into the back of her head. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
60.EXT. COFFEE SHOP ­ LONG ISLAND ­ DAY Lisa rushes towards the entrance. She's running late. 
CUT TO: 
61.INT. COFFEE SHOP ­ CONTINUOUS 
LISA Yeah? 
NANCY Well, y'know they only built that Asylum a couple of years ago? 
LISA Yeah. 
NANCY He says it was built on the site of One Twelve Ocean Avenue. 
LISA What's that? 
NANCY You never heard of it? 
LISA No. 
NANCY It was a famous house. Or should I say infamous. Some guy shot his whole family there back in the seventies. Parents, brothers, sisters. Wiped out his entire family with a shotgun. Then the next owners of the house only lasted there about a month. They said they were driven from the house by evil spirits. The house became known around the world. That's why the recent owners sold the land, they had enough of all the media interest and constant tourists. Have you seriously never heard of the Amityville horror house? 
LISA I vaguely remember hearing some stuff a while ago, but I never really took it in. I honestly didn't realise that the hospital was on the same land. 
NANCY Yup, right on the spot where the house was demolished. You really think the place is haunted? 
LISA Either that or I'm going crazy. 
NANCY Well you're not crazy, hun. Perhaps the stories about hauntings at the house were true. Maybe the house is gone but the spirits stuck around. 
LISA You believe in ghosts? 
NANCY I dunno, never seen one. But I like to think I'm open minded. Plus you're the most intelligent girl I know. If you say you've seen something, I believe you. 
Lisa smiles. 
LISA Thanks Nanc. 
NANCY So what are you gonna do? Are you gonna quit? 
LISA Part of me says I should. There's a lot about the place that frightens me. But I dunno... I think I've seen too much to be able to just walk away and forget the place. 
NANCY If I was you I'd just walk away. Who wants to work at a place that frightens them? 
LISA Well I need the money for starters. But now it feels like I need to find out more. 
NANCY Maybe you are crazy after all! 
CUT TO: 
62.INT. BEDROOM ­ LISA'S HOME ­ DAY Lisa is sitting on her bed studying a laptop. On screen she IS READING: 
"Ronald Joseph "Butch" DeFeo, Jr. is an American mass murderer. He was tried and convicted for the 1974 killings of his father, mother, two brothers and two sisters." 
We slowly push in on Lisa's eyes and then: 
SLOW DISSOLVE TO: 
63.EXT. 112 OCEAN AVENUE ­ DAY ­ 1974 
MICK Butch, I told you man, you can't get no shit on lay-away any more. Your credit's all used up. 
Butch pulls a wad of money out of the paper bag. 
BUTCH You accept cash? 
Mick smiles. 
MICK My man! Come on in. 
CUT TO: 
65.INT. LIVING ROOM ­ APARTMENT ­ A LITTLE LATER 
Butch uses a lighter to boil a spoon full of heroin. On his right arm is a belt. He then loads the heroin into a syringe. Butch tightens the belt and taps his arm. He sinks the needle into a prominent vein and plunges the heroin into his blood stream. His eyes sink and he lies back onto the crusty carpet of the apartment, staring up at the ceiling. From a bird's eye view we slowly move down towards Butch. Suddenly a chorus of voices chatter around his ears. 
VOICE #1 (O.S) It's kill or be killed. 
VOICE #2 (O.S) Why haven't you killed that pig? 
VOICE #3 (O.S) They are plotting against you. We have decided that you must take action. 
VOICE #4 (O.S) Kill them. Kill them all. 
CUT TO: 
66.INT. HALLWAY ­ 112 OCEAN AVENUE ­ DAY Butch puts his jacket on and prepares to open the front door. Suddenly a large hand GRABS the back of his jacket. Butch swipes the hand away and spins around to see his father red with rage. 
RONALD SENIOR Nineteen thousand dollars boy! Nineteen thousand!! 
BUTCH What?? 
RONALD SENIOR You stole that fuckin' money from the auto dealership!! 
BUTCH What the fuck you talking about?? I was robbed!! Didn't Brigante tell you huh? Some fuckers car jacked me Pop. I told the police about it! 
RONALD SENIOR You expect me to believe that, boy? You think I'm fuckin' stupid?? 
BUTCH I ain't saying your stupid pop, I'm telling you the truth! I was robbed god-damn it! 
Ronald Senior grabs Butch by the scruff of the neck and SLAMS him against the door. LOUISE DEFEO rushes in. 
LOUISE What the hell's going on?? 
RONALD SENIOR Our son's a fuckin' junkie thief, that's what's going on!! He robbed the fucking dealership!! 
BUTCH Don't listen to him Ma, I ain't done nothing!! 
Ronald Senior and Butch fall to the floor and start grappling. 
LOUISE Stop it!! Stop it now!! Louise attempts to pull Ronald Senior off Butch. Her nails dig into her husband's neck and draw blood. An enraged Ronald Senior grabs his wife's arms as she starts to slap him. Butch scrambles to his feet and rushes down the hallway. Ronald Senior remonstrates with Louise who is still trying to slap him. 
RONALD SENIOR Why do you always have to get involved huh?? You've always been too soft on that boy!! 
LISA Do you know the history of this place? 
DELANEY There's not much history. We've only been open a couple of years. 
LISA No, I mean the history of the land. 
DELANEY You mean... what was on the land before the hospital? 
LISA Yeah. 
DELANEY I know a bit about that. 
LISA One Twelve Ocean Avenue. The Amityville haunted house. 
DELANEY Well I don't know that it was haunted. Lots of people think that's lies. I know about the kid that killed his family. That's true. 
LISA I didn't know about it until a friend told me. 
DELANEY Really? It's a famous case. 
LISA How come you never mentioned it? 
DELANEY You seem spooked already. I didn't want to make it worse. 
LISA Y'know why I'm spooked? 
DELANEY Because of the patients on Ward X. 
LISA It's not just that Delaney. I think this place is haunted. In fact, I'm sure of it. 
DELANEY You've seen something? 
LISA Remember I said I saw a little girl roaming the hallways here? I know who she is. She's one of the DeFeo children who were killed. You ever seen her? 
DELANEY No. 
LISA Honestly? 
DELANEY To be honest I don't believe in all that ghost stuff. 
LISA Well I wasn't a huge believer, but I know what I've seen. 
DELANEY I believe that you've seen something. Some people are more open to that kind of thing, y'know? But me? I'm closed off to that extra terrestrial stuff. 
LISA Extra terrestrial is aliens. 
DELANEY Whatever it's called, I don't know. 
LISA So what do you believe in? Do you believe in God? 
DELANEY Serious questions tonight. 
LISA I'm just curious. 
CUT TO: 
71.INT. LIBRARY ­ LATER 
Lisa and Gloria are sat at a table in a secluded corner of the Library. Various books are spread out on the table. 
GLORIA So you wanted to know about the history of Amityville dating back to the Native Americans? 
LISA Yes that's right. I'm writing a college paper and I had heard some rumours in the neighbourhood about Native Americans being killed on the land down on Oceans Avenue. 
Gloria's demeanour instantly turns from jovial to serious. 
GLORIA Well that area has quite a dark history. 
LISA You mean the DeFeo murders at One Twelve? 
GLORIA Yes. Terrible business that. Those young children. Breaks my heart to think about such a tragedy. 
LISA Yeah it's awful. 
GLORIA You know most of the town was very upset when they decided to build that mental institution on the land. That used to be a nice suburban neighbourhood, now there's this big eye sore there. We had a 
thousand names on a petition. But I guess that Doctor who runs the place has enough money to pay off the people in high places. 
LISA So what about the native Americans? Is that story about them being killed on that land true? 
GLORIA There's something on that here. 
Gloria flips through one of the books. 
GLORIA Ah yes, here it is. (Reading) In the 18th Century there existed a group of Native Americans in Amityville known as "The Satchem Tribe" led by Satchem Takapausha, the Chief. The tribe had fled Salem in Massachusetts to escape persecution by the Christians who were persecuting members of the tribe because of their Witchcraft practices. These practices included a ritualistic human sacrifice of six people (The significance of Six being related to the biblical number of man and creation) in order to induce the spirit of their God, The Dark Master, who they believed manifested his powers through his devoted followers, giving them immortality. The hundred strong tribe settled in Amityville but were later chased off the land by local Christians. Satchem accused the Christians of not properly compensating his tribe for the land. A war started and the Christians hired a hunter called John Underhill from Salem. At the site where One Twelve Oceans Avenue was later built in Amityville, Underhill killed all of the tribe. The Indians were buried in a mass grave on the site. Before he died Satchem vowed revenge. According to local legend, Chief Satchem is believed to have subsequently haunted the land. Various parapsychologists and mediums have 
claimed that Satchem's vengeful spirit influenced the 1974 DeFeo murders at One Twelve Oceans Avenue and the haunting of the subsequent owners. Although such assertions are widely disputed. 
LISA So the legend has basis in historical fact? 
GLORIA Absolutely. 
CUT TO: 
72.INT. STAFF ROOM ­ HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL ­ NIGHT 
Lisa is sat with Delaney, both nursing a cup of coffee. 
LISA You told me the other night that you think evil is within us all. But do you think that people can be influenced by an evil that comes from outside of themselves? 
DELANEY Are you still thinking about this? 
LISA I guess I am yeah. 
DELANEY I worry that you're thinking too much. This place is getting to you. LISA There's something going on in this place. Something sinister. And I don't just mean the patients on Ward X. Have you not noticed that? 
DELANEY I've noticed some things. 
LISA Tell me!! 
Sadie stares directly at Lisa with intense eyes. An unnaturally deep voice escapes her lips: 
SADIE Our time is at hand! 
Lisa slides the hatch shut. She walks over to the last door on the left. Lisa slides the hatch open and peers in. The resident John Doe sits in the shadows. Suddenly he sits forward and a bright shaft of daylight illuminates his face. Lisa is shocked to see a face she recognises from the internet article staring at her. The face of RONALD "BUTCH" DEFEO JUNIOUR. Lisa slams the hatch shut and backs down the hallway, her mind racing as fast as her pulse rate. 
CUT TO: 
76.INT. HALLWAY ­ LATER 
Lisa knocks on the door to Doctor's Mixter's office. 
MIXTER (O.S) Come in. 
Lisa pops her head inside. 
LISA Doctor Mixter. 
MIXTER Oh Lisa, Hello. What brings you here? 
LISA I just wondered if I could speak to you for a moment sir. It's very important. 
MIXTER Of course, come in. 
CUT TO: 
77.INT. MIXTER'S OFFICE ­ CONTINUOUS 
Lisa enters and sits down opposite Mixter, who is sat behind his desk filling out a form. 
MIXTER What can I do for you Lisa? 
LISA Well... what I'm going to tell you will sound really strange but I need to tell you. 
MIXTER Okay, go ahead. 
LISA Do you know the history of the land the hospital is built on? 
MIXTER What are you referring to exactly? 
LISA Well, first of all. The DeFeo murders and the infamous house that people said was haunted. 
MIXTER I am aware of the DeFeo murders yes. The hauntings... well I think it's common perception now that a lot of that was exaggerated by the media. 
LISA Maybe. Are you aware of the history of the land dating back to the eighteenth century? 
MIXTER No, I can't say that I am. 
LISA There were a group of Native Americans in Amityville known as "The Satchem Tribe". They were massacred by Christians after a dispute over the land. 
MIXTER Okay. I'm sure there's a point to all this? 
LISA Let me out of here you sick fuck!! 
MIXTER Now Lisa, let's talk calmly or you will be sedated again. 
Mixter walks over and sits on the edge of the bed. 
LISA Why are you doing this? 
MIXTER You're having paranoid delusions. I'm also aware that you've been having disturbing visions. 
LISA I'm not having delusions, I know what I've seen! 
MIXTER Well you think you know. The human brain is a powerful thing and I'm sure you do believe what you've seen. But it's all in your mind Lisa, it's not reality. You're a very sick girl and you need treatment. 
LISA You do this to all your staff huh? The minute we speak out we get fucking committed?? 
MIXTER Staff? You were never staff here Lisa. You're a patient here. You've always been a patient here. 
Lisa appears confused. 
LISA No, no. You're lying to me, I know who I am! I KNOW WHO I AM!! MIXTER I'm afraid not my dear. You've always been with us here. Initially as an out patient but now the delusions have progressed I feel it's time for you to become a full time resident. 
Lisa becomes upset. Tears stream down her face. 
LISA But... but... 
MIXTER Look, I understand it's a lot to process now. I'll leave you to think about it and then we'll begin counselling sessions tomorrow. 
LISA Okay. 
Lisa sobs. 
MIXTER Listen, how about I take this straight jacket off so you're more comfortable? 
LISA Thank you. 
MIXTER First you must take this. It will help you sleep. 
Mixter hands Lisa a red pill and a bottle of water. She takes the pill and pops it in her mouth before taking a gulp of water. 
MIXTER Good girl. I know it's a lot to take in but together we'll get through this. Now I'm going to take your restraint off. Remember though, if you're violent then I promise you it will go straight back on. Okay? 
LISA Okay. 
Mixter unties the straight jacket at the back and lifts it off. 
MIXTER That better? 
LISA Yes. Thank you. 
MIXTER No problem. I'm going to leave you get some rest now. Tomorrow we start the healing process. 
Mixter exits. The echo of the steel door closing reverberates around the tiny cell. We hear Mixter's footsteps as he walks down the hallway. Lisa's upset demeanour disappears immediately. She spits the red pill into the palm of her hand. 
CUT TO: 
86.INT. WARD B ­ SAME TIME 
Delaney and Lisa run through the Ward. They turn a corner and are suddenly confronted by a large group of patients in white gowns. 
LISA Fuck!! 
Delaney and Lisa run back the other way and turn the corner. Two orderlies, brandishing truncheons, are approaching. 
LISA Please help us! 
DELANEY The patients are loose! 
ORDERLY #1 We'll take care of them. 
The orderlies turn the corner and see the large group. The orderlies look at each other, fear in their eyes. They turn to run but the patients overpower them in a flash, grabbing and scratching, deep wounds tearing into their skin. Delaney and Lisa look on as the helpless orderlies SCREAM. 
LISA Shouldn't we help them?? 
DELANEY We need to save ourselves. Let them reap what they've sewn. 
Delaney grabs Lisa and they run down the hallway, as the patients beat the orderlies with their own truncheons. 
CUT TO: 
87.INT. HALLWAY ­ CONTINUOUS 
Lisa and Delaney rush down the hallway. They turn a corner and are stopped in their tracks by the GHOST of ALLISON DEFEO stood in the centre of the hallway clutching a teddy bear. She has a HUGE bullet hole in the centre of her forehead, blood dripping down her face. 
ALLISON Why don't you want to play with me? CRASH! A door at the other end of the hallway is kicked open. Patient X bursts through and aims the rifle. Lisa and Delaney rush back down the hallway. A BULLET HITS the wall just as they turn into an open doorway. 
CUT TO: 
88.INT. HALLWAY ­ CONTINUOUS 
Lisa and Delaney are running through the hallway. They burst through a door. 
CUT TO: 
89.INT. SHOWER ROOM ­ CONTINUOUS 
Lisa and Delaney find themselves in the shower room. Mould covers the walls and all of the showers are on, gushing dirty water. They spot another door on the other side of the 
shower room but blocking their path to it is a thin middle aged man in a white vest and white shorts, facing the wall. He is whispering to himself. Lisa and Delaney stop. LISA Hey mister, you need to get the hell out of here, there's a patient going crazy with a gun!! 
The man turns around. His face is weathered and his eyes are wild and bloodshot. 
MAN My...my skin's on too tight! 
DELANEY What? 
MAN My skin is on too tight! 
CUT TO: 
94.INT.STAFF ROOM ­ CONTINUOUS Lisa enters a small staff room. She SLAMS the door behind her. She clicks the lock. Lisa steps back from the door. She JUMPS as Patient X POUNDS on the door from the other side. Lisa looks around for a weapon. She limps toward the cutlery drawer below a sink. She rustles inside and finds a large butcher knife. Suddenly the door EXPLODES, a large hole blown through the middle of it by the GUN SHOT. Patient X reaches through, groping for the lock. Lisa reaches a large window in the room. She tries to lift the window. After an unsuccessful attempt at opening it she realises the window is nailed down. LISA Fuck!! 
Patient X reaches for the lock. Lisa dashes to the storage cupboard and ducks inside. 
CUT TO: 
95.INT. STORAGE CUPBOARD ­ CONTINUOUS 
Lisa pulls the door shut and falls to the floor of the dark interior. Lisa faces the door, bracing herself with the knife held upwards. Everything is quiet. Suddenly the door SHAKES as Patient X THUMPS on it. The door cracks as Patient X SMASHES against it. Lisa crouches down with the knife at the ready. 
The gun BLOWS a HOLE right through the door. Patient X leans through the hole, peering down at Lisa crouched on the floor. He aims the gun through the hole and prepares to fire. Lisa brandishes the knife and thrusts it forward with all her might. The blade RIPS through Patient X's right eye. He SCREAMS and drops the gun in the cupboard before stumbling backwards into the staff room. Patient X clasps his hands to his eye which is now gushing with blood. Lisa grabs the gun and stands up. Patient X looks at her with his remaining eye. Lisa aims the rifle through the hole in the door. 
LISA Lights out, you son-of-a-bitch!! BANG! The shot gun BLASTS a hole through Patient X's chest, blood splatters over Lisa. Suddenly a WHITE LIGHT fills the room and ALLISON DEFEO materialises. She is dressed in a clean white dress, her angelic complexion bears no wounds. Allison takes the hand of PATIENT X's corpse. The WHITE LIGHT swarms over Patient X's body and he rises to his feet. His head is now intact and he is dressed in a white robe. He looks at Allison and they share a peaceful smile. Allison walks with Patient X through a doorway filled with a blinding WHITE LIGHT. They disappear and the light slowly dissipates. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
96.INT. HALLWAY ­ HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL - LATER 
Lisa, covered in blood, walks through the hallway with the rifle by her side. She reaches the door to Doctor Mixter's office and kicks it open. Mixter is sat behind his desk, now dressed in his usual shirt and tie. Lisa aims the gun at Mixter whose hands are beneath the table. LISA Get your fucking hands up you sick fuck! 
INSERT SHOT: Mixter presses a red button beneath the desk. 
Mixter raises his hands. 
MIXTER I see we've dispensed with the usual pleasantries. Come in Lisa. 
Lisa enters, kicking the door shut behind her. 
CUT TO: 
97.INT. MIXTER'S OFFICE ­ CONTINUOUS 
Mixter is very calm. Lisa is trembling, the rifle visibly shaking in her hands as she aims it at Mixter's head. 
LISA You gonna tell me it's all in my head now huh?? Wanna tell me I'm the crazy one?? 
MIXTER Well maybe it is, maybe it isn't. How would you know? 
LISA Get the fuck out of my head you son-of-a-bitch! I know who I am and I know what I've seen! You're part of all of this. I know you are! You're the crazy one!! 
MIXTER You're the one holding the gun on a well respected doctor, my dear. 
LISA Why did you do this? Why?? 
MIXTER You are part of a great becoming tonight. A rising of The Dark Master who blesses all of his followers with power and immortality. 
LISA You fucking believe that do you?? Sounds like a bunch of bullshit to me! You're no better than those fucking fundamentalists who kill innocent people because they've twisted shit they've read in some Holy book. It's all shit!! 
MIXTER The plan for the becoming is almost complete. Just one more sacrifice, that's all we need tonight. 
LISA How about if I blow your fucking head off then huh?? 
