AN EDUCATION 
Written by 
Nick Hornby 
1    INT. SCHOOL. DAY                                              1 
JANUARY 1962. MONTAGE 
A nice girls' school in a south west London suburb. We see girls doing what girls did in a nice girls' school in 1962: walking with books on their heads, practising their handwriting, making cakes, playing lacrosse, dancing with each other. 
1A   INT. CLASSROOM. DAY                                          1A 
In one of the classrooms, MISS STUBBS, an attractive, bright, animated schoolteacher, is talking to a small group of sixteen-year-old girls. Some of these girls seem to be daydreaming - looking out of the window, examining their fingernails. A couple, including a bespectacled girl who looks five years younger than everyone else in the class, write down everything the teacher says. Only one, JENNY, beautiful and animated, seems to be listening in the spirit in which Miss Stubbs would like her to listen. She's smiling, eyes shining - she loves Miss Stubbs, and these lessons. Miss Stubbs asks a question, and Jenny puts up her hand - the only one in the class to do so. 
MISS STUBBS (mock-sighing) Jenny. Again. 
JENNY Isn't it because Mr Rochester's blind? 
2    INT. BEDROOM. DAY                                             2 
Jenny's bedroom. Books about ponies, a much loved teddy bear; a cello huge in the small room leans against the wall. 
Jenny is bent over a small desk. Victorian novels, Latin primers and dictionaries teeter in huge towers either side of her. She stands and stretches as she turns to us. 
She kneels and flicks through her half-dozen or so LPs on the floor near a cheap record player - they're all classical, mostly by Elgar, apart from a Juliette Greco record. This is the one she chooses. As the music begins, she sings along. 
Immediately there is a thumping noise - someone underneath her is banging on the ceiling impatiently. 
MAN'S VOICE (O.S.) I don't want to hear any French singing. French singing wasn't on the syllabus, last time I looked. 
Jenny sighs, and reaches for the volume control. She turns the music down so low that she has to lie down and put her head right next to the Dansette to hear it. 
Close on Jenny as she silently mouths the words along with the almost inaudible track. 
3   INT. LIVING ROOM. DAY                                         3 
Jenny, her mother and father are finishing Sunday lunch. Jenny's father JACK is in his forties, MARJORIE, her mother is slightly younger than Jack, but every bit as middle- aged. The food is grey and brown, in keeping with the colour scheme of the house. They aren't talking - they're listening to Mantovani on the radio. Jenny gets up from the lunch table. 
JENNY I've got an English essay to do by tomorrow morning. 
JACK I don't want to hear anything through the ceiling this afternoon, apart from the sound of sweat dripping onto textbooks. 
JENNY Cello? 
JACK No cello. 
JENNY I thought we agreed that cello was my interest or hobby? 
JACK It's already your interest or hobby. When they ask you "What's your interest or hobby?" at your Oxford interview, you can say, "Cello". That wouldn't be a lie. You don't need to practise a hobby. A hobby is a hobby. 
JENNY Or interest. 
JACK (ignoring her) You don't need to be good at it. You just have to be interested in it. 
JENNY Can I stop going to the youth orchestra, then? 
JACK No. The orchestra shows you're a joiner-inner. Universities like joiner-inners. 
JENNY Ah. Yes. But. I've already joined in. So now I can stop. 
JACK Well, if you stop, that shows the opposite, doesn't it? That shows you're a rebel. They don't want that at Oxford. 
JENNY No. They don't want people who think for themselves. 
JACK (missing the sarcasm, as is his wont) Course they don't. 
4   INT. SCHOOL HALL. DAY                                         4 
Jenny with cello sits in the string section. Everyone is getting settled, tuning up, latecomers still arriving. Along the row from Jenny, tuning his violin, is a nice- looking boy of her age, GRAHAM, and she waves at him. Two 13 year old boys sitting between them wave too, parodically, and then blow kisses, much to Graham's embarrassment and Jenny's fury. 
The silly boys dissolve in fits of giggles: this is clearly one of the funniest moments of their lives - until one of them farts noisily and, it would appear from all the frantic gesturing, pungently. The comic value of the fart tops even the comic value of the wave, and they are scarcely able to stay seated, such is their mirth. 
5   EXT. SCHOOL. DAY                                              5 
Jenny and Graham are talking while he struggles to take his bike out of a bicycle rack slightly unbalanced by the violin strapped to his back. Graham is nervous, chronically unconfident and shy. 
GRAHAM Should I wear, you know, Sunday best? 
JENNY You'd better, I'm afraid. Just to show my father you're un jeune homme serieux, not a teddy boy. 
David stops the car. 
DAVID Jump in. 
8   INT. CAR. DAY                                               8 
Jenny shuts the door and sinks approvingly into the white leather seat. David regards the dripping girl with amusement. 
JENNY It's even nicer on the inside. 
DAVID Where to, madam? 
Jenny makes a face. 
JENNY I only live round the corner. 
DAVID What a shame. We'll just make it last as long as we can. 
9    EXT. STREET. NEAR JENNY'S. DAY                               9 
The Bristol is crawling along the road at walking pace. 
10   INT/EXT. CAR JENNY'S HOUSE. DAY                              10 
David reaches across Jenny while driving slowly, opens the glove compartment and takes out a packet of cigarettes. 
DAVID Smoke? 
JENNY I'd better not. I'm a bit close to home. 
David lights one for himself. 
DAVID I suppose cellists must go to a lot of concerts. 
JENNY We don't go to any concerts. We don't believe in them. 
DAVID Oh, they're real. 
JENNY So people say. 
DAVID Why don't we believe in them? 
JENNY I suppose...What would he say? 
DAVID Your father, this is? 
JENNY (Darkly) Oh, yes. He'd say there's no point to them. They're just for fun. Apart from school concerts, of course, which are no fun at all, so we go to those. The proper ones don't help you get on. 
DAVID Which of course is what is so wonderful about them. Anyway, you'll go one day. 
JENNY (heartfelt) Yes. I will. I know. Sometimes it seems as though that's what all this slog is for. If I get to University, I'm going to read what I want and think about what I want and listen to what I want. And I'm going to look at paintings and go to French films and talk to people who know lots about lots. 
DAVID Good for you. Which University? 
JENNY Oxford. If I'm lucky. Did you go anywhere? 
DAVID I studied at what I believe they call the University of Life. And I didn't get a very good degree there. 
Jenny smiles. 
JENNY This is me. Thank you. 
She gets out of the car with the cello. David stares after her for a moment, then drives off. 
11   INT. JENNY'S SITTING-ROOM. AFTERNOON                       11 
Jenny, her parents and Graham are eating afternoon tea - neat fish-paste sandwiches, Battenberg cake, best china. 
MARJORIE How's your mother, Graham? 
GRAHAM She's fine, thanks. She sends her best, by the way. 
JACK Where are you applying, Graham? 
Jenny looks embarrassed. She knows what's coming. 
GRAHAM I'm not sure yet. 
JACK Well, when will you be sure? You can't let the grass grow under your feet, you know. Otherwise you'll be at the back of the queue. 
JENNY (deadpan) I suppose so. I suppose the growing grass would knock you off balance, and then you'd fall over, and by the time you picked yourself up, there'd be a queue. 
17   INT. ST JOHN'S SMITH SQUARE. NIGHT                           17 
David, Jenny, Danny and Helen in a row in the middle of the auditorium, watching the stage and listening to the music. Jenny can't concentrate - she's too excited by the occasion and the company. Jenny sneaks a glance at Helen, who stares straight ahead, unblinking and enigmatic. David is smiling, as if he's trying to communicate enjoyment; Danny's eyes flicker across the stage - he understands the music, its component parts, which musicians are contributing what. Jenny takes it all in. 
18   EXT. ST JOHN'S SMITH SQUARE. NIGHT                           18 
Jenny, David, Danny and Helen emerge with the other concert- goers. 
DAVID I booked a table at Juliette's. Will that kill the mood, do you think? 
HELEN Oh, I do hope so. 
The others laugh. 
HELEN I always think I'm going to my own funeral when I listen to classical music. (Tentatively) That was classical, wasn't it? 
DANNY Yes. Very classical. As classical as you can get. 
Helen looks pleased. 
DAVID Juliette's it is, then. Heaven forbid that we should end the evening reflecting on our own mortality. 
Jenny smiles in delight. She's never met people like this. 
19   INT. JULIETTE'S. NIGHT                                       19 
A singer in the Julie London mould is singing `I'm In The Mood For Love' while cigarette girls and glamorous waitresses patrol the tables. 
Jenny is sitting with the others at a table in the club, eating and talking. She looks about twelve, but she's thrilled to be there. We know now that her life can never be the same again, and there will be no going back to fish- paste sandwiches with spotty Graham. 
DAVID Have you never heard "Chante Francoise Sagan"? 
Jenny shakes her head. Her eyes are wide - she's clearly awe-struck. David offers her a cigarette - a Gitane - which she takes. He lights it for her while she's listening. 
DANNY Oh, it's wonderful. 
JENNY I've only got....Well, I think it's just called `Juliette Greco'. The one with the eyes on the sleeve. I saved up and got my French conversation teacher to bring it back after Christmas. 
HELEN You've got a French conversation teacher? 
JENNY Yes. 
HELEN Is that why you suddenly speak French for no reason? 
DANNY (ignoring her) You must have seen her sing? 
Jenny shakes her head again and smiles. Where would she have seen Juliette Greco? Danny, meanwhile, is baffled. Who hasn't seen Juliette Greco? 
DAVID She's marvellous. 
DANNY But you should see her in Paris, not here. David will take you. 
DAVID I'd love to. You'd fit right in. 
HELEN (sympathetically) Better than here, really. 
DAVID It's wonderful to find a young person who wants to know things. There's so much I want you to see. 
They sip their drinks pensively, possibly to allow time for the double-entendre to disappear into the smoke. 
DAVID Are you still all right to come and have a look at that Pembroke Villas place with me on Friday, Danny? 
DANNY Oh. No. Can't do it. There's a Burne-Jones coming up at Christie's on Friday. And I want it. 
JENNY (laughing in disbelief) You're thinking of buying a Burne- Jones? A real one? 
DANNY I just have a feeling that the pre-Raphaelites are going to take off. 
JENNY I love the pre-Raphaelites. 
DAVID (excited by her education) Do you? 
JENNY Yes, of course. Rossetti and Burne-Jones, anyway. Not Holman Hunt, so much. He's so garish. 
Danny looks at her. There's clearly more to this schoolgirl than he thought. 
DAVID Absolutely! Why don't we all go to the auction? Wouldn't that be fun? 
JENNY An auction. Gosh. How exciting. 
DANNY Next Friday morning. David will pick you up. 
22   INT. JENNY'S BEDROOM. NIGHT                                  22 
Jenny at her desk, working. She puts down her pen, distracted. 
23   INT. DAVID'S CAR. DAY                                        23 
David sitting in his Bristol, waiting. 
24   EXT. SCHOOL. DAY                                             24 
We see the Bristol parked outside, and Jenny walking towards it, a small figure in a large playground. She's clearly just changed out of her school uniform, and she's making last-minute adjustments to her civvies. A teacher walks towards her, and Jenny almost freezes - but the teacher merely smiles pleasantly and walks past. Jenny keeps walking at a measured pace for a moment and then breaks into a run. 
25   INT/EXT. CAR/DILAPIDATED HOUSE. DAY                          25 
Jenny and David are driving along a North Kensington street. 
JENNY How do you know Danny? 
David is distracted. He's driving slowly, apparently looking for an address. 
DAVID Oh, you know. We kept bumping into each other, and we became pals, and we've ended up doing a bit of work together, when it suits us. 
JENNY What kind of work? 
DAVID Property. A bit of art dealing. Some buying and selling. This and that... 
He stops the car. 
DAVID I'll be two seconds. 
He gets out of the car, and Jenny watches him as he crosses the road. 
Outside a dilapidated house covered in scaffolding stands a large West Indian family, mother, father, three or four small children and a dog. They are surrounded by what appears to be all their worldly goods. David squats down on his haunches, talks to the kids, tousles the hair of the smallest. Then he takes out a bunch of keys and ushers the family down the path. He unlocks the door and leads them inside. 
In an upper window of the house, we see an old lady peering down anxiously. 
26   EXT. STREET/DILAPIDATED HOUSE. DAY                           26 
David emerges from the house, jangling his keys. 
27   INT. CAR. DAY                                                27 
Jenny opens the glove compartment where David keeps his cigarettes, takes out the packet, removes one for herself, offers the packet to David as he gets into the car. He lights them both. 
DAVID I'm sorry about that. 
JENNY How do you know those, those ...Negro people? 
DAVID They're clients. 
JENNY Clients? 
DAVID Jenny darling, even schwarzers have to live somewhere. And it's not as if they can rent off their own kind, is it? 
He starts the car and drives off. 
JENNY I'm not sure I quite understand what you do. 
DAVID You don't need to. It's too boring. All you need to know is that I work in property so that I can take you to nice places. 
Jenny's POV of the black family in one window, and the little old lady disappearing from another. 
28   INT. CHRISTIE'S. DAY                                           28 
Danny intent on a catalogue, Helen gazing dreamily into space, as David and Jenny push their way through the crowded auction room. The auctioneer burbles on in the background. 
DANNY You nearly missed it. 
Jenny is in awe of rich London in all its finery. The auctioneer clears his throat. 
AUCTIONEER We turn to lot 41, The Tree of Forgiveness, by Sir Edward Burne- Jones. This is a rare opportunity to purchase a key work of the Pre- Raphaelite movement. Who will start me off at five hundred guineas? 
Jenny glances at Danny. He makes no move at this price. Neither does anyone else. He's poised and listening hard. 
AUCTIONEER Two hundred? 
A middle-aged lady, the epitome of the middle-aged contemporary Sloane, twin-set, pearls and a lot of      face powder, raises her hand. 
AUCTIONEER Thank you, madam. Three hundred? 
A man raises his hand. 
DANNY That would be even more vulgar. 
DAVID Play for us, Jenny. 
JENNY Gosh, no. One day. When I'm good enough for it. 
DAVID She's good enough now. 
JENNY Oh, David. You've never heard me. 
Danny stands up and stretches. 
DAVID I shall come to hear you in St John's Smith Square. Or in Oxford, when you get there. 
DANNY We should all go and spend a weekend in Oxford. Straw boaters, punting, cream teas, antiquarian bookshops. Bit of business, if we can find it. What about next weekend? 
DAVID/HELEN Yes! 
JENNY A weekend away? I wouldn't be allowed to do that. 
They all look at her. 
DAVID I'll find a way. I'll talk to them. 
JENNY Who? 
DAVID Jack and Marjorie. 
JENNY About what? 
DAVID Oxford. 
Jenny   hoots with derision. 
JENNY You're going to ask my father if I can go away with you for the weekend? He'd have you arrested. 
DAVID We'll see. 
JENNY I'll bet you you can't do it. 
DAVID How much? 
DANNY (amused) Be careful, Jenny. You don't know who you're dealing with. 
JENNY Half-a-crown. 
DAVID You're on. 
They shake hands. Jenny suddenly notice the clock on Danny's mantelpiece. 
JENNY Mon dieu! You must take me back to school. And I've got to change back into my uniform. 
There is a silence. Danny and David make momentary eye contact - they are clearly contemplating the erotic possibilities of Jenny's last sentence. Helen notices. 
HELEN Oh, behave yourselves. 
Jenny looks at them all, mystified. 
30   INT. CLASSROOM/LATIN. DAY.                                  30 
Jenny is in her Latin class, waiting for the lesson to begin. Tina and Hattie aren't with her, and she sits on her own -the atmosphere of the class is very different from Miss Stubbs' English lessons. The girls are different, more serious, less fun, and the atmosphere is more sombre. The teacher, MRS WILSON, is older, plainer, stricter. She pulls some papers out of her bag. 
MRS WILSON Test results for the Virgil translation. We will start from the bottom...Patricia. 
Jenny puffs out her cheeks. She's not last. 
MRS WILSON (CONT'D) Absent. Margaret. 48%. Jenny... 
Jenny winces. 
MRS WILSON (CONT'D) 52%. That would just about scrape a pass in the exam proper. Not good enough for Oxford candidates. 
31   INT. JENNY'S HOUSE. DAY                                     31 
Jenny and her mother are sitting on the sofa, staring into space, clearly upset. On the coffee table in front of them is the test, covered in red ink. They hear a key in the lock, and they look at each other. 
MARJORIE I'll talk to him. 
Jack enters, back from work. He's wearing a suit and carrying a battered briefcase. He looks at them, and then notices the essay on the table. 
JACK It's her Latin, isn't it? 
JENNY Will we be sharing bedrooms? 
HELEN You're not sleeping with him? 
JENNY No. I'm...No. 
HELEN Good for you. 
JENNY Really? Do     you think so? 
HELEN You're only sixteen. And you don't want to get into the family way, do you? 
JENNY Oh, I'd make sure that didn't happen. I'm going to do it when I'm seventeen. On my seventeenth birthday, hopefully. 
HELEN With   David? 
Jenny pauses. 
JENNY Well...Golly. I suppose it will be with David, won't it? 
HELEN When's your birthday? 
JENNY April. 
HELEN Oh, he'll be around in April. If that's what you want. Anyway. I'll find you a nightie. 
Jenny stares at herself in the mirror again. 
41   INT. DANNY'S FLAT. DAY                                      41 
The girls emerge. Both men are entranced by Jenny's transformation. David can't take his eyes off her. 
DANNY (thoughtful) Shall, we, ah... Make a move? 
He gets to his feet. 
42   INT/EXT. CAR COUNTRY ROAD. DAY.                               42 
The Bristol on the country road to Oxford. 
43   INT/EXT. CAR OXFORD DAY                                       43 
The Bristol drives through Oxford. Jenny catches a quick glimpse of a dreaming spire. 
DANNY Imagine spending three years here. 
HELEN I know. 
She shudders, as if someone has walked over her grave. 
JENNY Can we stop? 
DAVID Maybe later. There are a couple of things we have to do. 
44   INT/EXT. CAR OXFORD BACK STREET. DAY.                         44 
Jenny and Helen in the back seat of the car, which is parked outside a house in the back streets of Oxford. There's no sign of Danny and David. Jenny sighs impatiently. 
HELEN Oh, it's always like this. There are millions of places I've never seen because I've been stuck in here. 
JENNY You never get out? 
HELEN There's never anywhere to go in the places they stop. 
Jenny looks out of the window. This is self-evidently true. 
45   INT. PUB. EVENING.                                            45 
Helen and Danny, Jenny and David are standing in a quiet, old-fashioned pub, warming themselves at an open fire. 
David has a pen in his hand, and he's holding a book - `The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe'. 
DAVID So. Now.Is he Clive, do you think? Or CS? 
HELEN I'm confused now. I thought you'd made him up? 
DANNY (attempting, briefly, to be patient) No, we...Never mind. 
David walks over to the nearest table and writes in the book. 
DAVID There. 
His eyes stray to her breasts. Jenny stares at him. 
JENNY You just want to see them? 
DAVID I just want to see them. 
Jenny, flustered and nervous, looks at her nightgown - she doesn't know what to do. 
DAVID Let it fall from your shoulders. 
She does so. He stares. 
DAVID Thank you. 
He sits up, and lovingly lifts the straps back up. He smiles at her. Relieved, she smiles back. 
47   INT/EXT. CAR COTTAGE. DAY                                     47 
The Bristol, containing David and Jenny in the front seats and Danny and Helen in the back, passing through a pretty Oxfordshire village. It pulls up outside a country cottage with a `FOR SALE' sign outside. 
48    INT. CAR. DAY                                              48 
DAVID Might be worth a look. 
49    EXT. CAR COTTAGE. DAY                                      49 
The four get out of the car, and Jenny follows David and Danny to the front door of the house. Helen hangs back. 
HELEN Jenny... 
Jenny turns around. 
JENNY Aren't you coming? 
HELEN We don't go in. 
JENNY What are you talking about? 
DANNY Helen will look after you. Go and find a nice cup of tea somewhere. 
Jenny is mystified. 
JENNY I don't need looking after, thank you very much. David, I want to see... 
David ignores her. 
DANNY I'm not going to tell you a second time. Now. Run along. 
49A   EXT. BENCH. DAY                                            49A 
Helen and Jenny waiting for the boys. Helen is blithe, chatty; Jenny has a face like thunder. 
HELEN They won't be long. Either way. 
JENNY "Either way"? 
HELEN Sometimes they find something, sometimes they don't. 
In the distance, David is waving at them urgently. 
HELEN And when they do find something, we usually have to leave quite quickly. They can be a bit naughty, sometimes. Anyway. It's nice to have company. I'm usually outside on my own. 
Jenny stares at Helen. She's beginning to realise who she is dealing with. 
50   SCENE OMITTED                                                 50 
51   SCENE OMITTED                                                 51 
52   INT/EXT. CAR NEW COUNTRY ROAD. DAY                            52 
An old picture of   some kind is wedged between Helen and Jenny on the back   seat. Jenny, furious, is staring out of the window. Helen   attempts to peer around the partition, but settles for a   wave. 
HELEN Coo-ee. Jenny. 
Jenny doesn't respond. 
DANNY Sorry about being a little brisk back there, Jenny. We have our way of doing things. Silly, really. 
Still no response. 
DAVID Oh, come on, Jenny. Let's not spoil things. 
MARJORIE Did you have a nice time? 
JENNY Lovely, thank you. 
JACK Was he nice to you? 
Jenny unzips her bag and pulls out her copy of the book. She hands it to her father. 
JENNY Look inside. 
Jack examines the inscription. 
JACK Well I never. Look at this, Marjorie. 
He hands it to her. She examines it reverently. 
MARJORIE "Clive"...Lucky girl. What was he like? 
JENNY He was just...normal. Kind. 
MARJORIE And did he show you round? 
JENNY Oh, he was busy. David did, though. 
MARJORIE What did you think? 
JENNY Beautiful. 
MARJORIE Did it make you want to work harder? 
JACK Never a dull moment with David, is there? If it's not concerts, it's famous authors. Bit different from that lad you brought home for tea, isn't he? 
MARJORIE David's a lot older than Graham. 
JACK Graham could live to be two hundred, and he still wouldn't be swanning around with famous authors. Hasn't got it in him. 
JENNY He might become a famous author, for all you know. 
JACK Being one isn't the same as knowing one, is it? Anyone can be one. But if you move in those circles... 
JENNY What? 
JACK Well, it says something about you, doesn't it? It says you're going places. It says you're well connected. He's an impressive young man, that David. I like him more and more. 
MARJORIE Well, they say opposites attract, don't they? I wouldn't have thought he was your sort. 
JACK He wasn't. And now he is. 
MARJORIE Is that how you feel, Jenny? 
JENNY I feel....I Feel I should do my homework. 
She leaves the room. Marjorie watches her go thoughtfully. 
56   EXT. PARK. DAY                                              56 
A group of girls cross-country running. Jenny and her friends are at the back of the group, and the gym teacher , jogging backwards, gesticulates at them to get a move on. 
GYM TEACHER Ladies, please. Christmas is coming. 
They put on enough of a spurt to satisfy her, and then immediately stop when the teacher is no longer watching. Seeing an attractive bench, they sit down. From somewhere under a skirt, Jenny produces a packet of exotic-looking cigarettes and offers them around. 
HATTIE What the hell are those? 
JENNY Russian Sobranies. 
Hattie and Tina make snooty faces. Jenny takes a cigarette. The others follow suit. Jenny lights them, and they all grimace. The contrast between the sophisticated cigarettes, and the unsophisticated smokers and context is pronounced. 
HATTIE Where did they come from? 
TINA She might have bought them from the Savoy, or Claridges, or the opera, or some fancy nightclub. Who knows, with Jenny? 
JENNY Paris. You can't buy them here. 
TINA (suddenly looking at her suspiciously) You never bought them yourself? 
JENNY (mimicking Tina's grammar cruelly) No. I never. 
TINA Shut up, you stuck-up cow. 
JENNY But I'll bring you some back, if you want. 
JACK No, of course... 
JENNY I have an education to pursue. 
58   INT. JENNY'S HOUSE. EVENING                               58 
Graham, Jenny and her father are at the dinner table, sitting in the dark. Marjorie kicks the door open with her foot and comes in holding a birthday cake with seventeen candles burning on it. She puts it down carefully on the table. 
JACK Blow them out, then, before the whole place burns down. 
Jenny closes her eyes, makes her wish, blows out her candles. Her father and mother both look at her, apparently attempting to read her mind. Jack gets up to turn the lights on. We can see that by Jenny's side are two unopened, carefully-wrapped presents, both exactly the same size - clearly books. 
MARJORIE Who'd like a piece? 
In truth, the cake is a rather sorry and unappetising specimen. There isn't enough icing on the top. She cuts a couple of slices which immediately collapse. 
GRAHAM Never mind. I'll have one of those. 
JACK Come on. Presents. 
Without any real enthusiasm, Jenny opens the first one of the two, from her mum and dad. It's a Latin dictionary. 
JENNY Oh. Thank you. I    needed a new one. 
GRAHAM (crestfallen) Oh dear. 
The doorbell rings. Jenny perks up. Jack goes to answer it, and immediately the house is energised: it's David. 
58A   INT/EXT JENNY'S HOUSE                                       58A 
Jack answers the door to David. 
58B   INT. JENNY'S HOUSE                                          58B 
JACK (O.S.) Good grief. You won't believe this, Jenny. Did you leave anything in the shop? 
David enters. You can hardly see him for all the parcels and flowers he's carrying. 
DAVID It's a special day. 
He and Jenny exchange a glance. Jack comes in behind him. 
JACK She's a special girl. 
DAVID Oh, I know it. (to Graham) Hello, young man. 
JENNY This is Graham. 
DAVID Graham, a pleasure. I'm David. 
They shake hands. Graham suddenly looks five years younger. 
JACK Makes your dictionary look a bit feeble, eh Graham? 
Graham looks pained. Marjorie notices. 
MARJORIE And ours too, come to that. 
JACK Well, we're not the ones trying to impress her. 
JENNY Clearly. 
JACK David, what can I get you to drink? 
DAVID What's everybody else having? What have you got there, Graham? 
JACK I've given him a glass of pop. 
GRAHAM (stung) I'd better be going I have a stack of homework to do. 
Graham says his goodbyes. He tries to catch Jenny's eye, but she looks away. Marjorie shows him to the door. 
DAVID Yes. Well. You can put the pop away now. What is there for the grown-ups? 
JACK A glass of something warming? 
DAVID You know me so well. 
Hearty laughter from the two men. 
JENNY Can I open anything yet? 
60   INT. HEADMISTRESS'S OFFICE. DAY.                           60 
The office is dark, wood-panelled, foreboding, apparently designed to put all visitors ill-at-ease. The headmistress would probably choose to be wood-panelled if she could. She's tweedy, bespectacled, severe. There is a knock at the door. She doesn't look up from her paperwork. 
HEADMISTRESS Come. 
Jenny enters, looking young and frightened. 
HEADMISTRESS Ah. Miss Mellor. 
Jenny tries to look back at her with all the courage she can muster. 
HEADMISTRESS We're all very excited about your forthcoming trip to Paris. Our excitement, indeed, knows no bounds. Some of us can talk of little else. 
Jenny looks at her feet. 
HEADMISTRESS An older man, I understand. A word of warning, Miss Mellor. 
There may well have been the odd sixth-form girl who has lost an important part of herself - perhaps the best part - while under our supervision. These things happen, regrettably. If, however, we are made aware of this loss, then of course the young lady in question would have to continue her studies elsewhere, if she still has any use for `A'-levels. Is that clear? 
JENNY Can I go now? 
HEADMISTRESS Please. 
Jenny turns round and walks out without saying another word. 
62   INT. HOTEL BEDROOM. EVENING                                   62 
62PT 1 
Through the window of a hotel suite, we see a BEA jet soaring into the sky. 
62PT 2 
David and Jenny aren't on it, though. They are letting themselves into the room. Jenny stares at the featureless sitting room. 
JENNY There's no bed. 
DAVID Ah. I pushed the boat out and got us a suite. 
JENNY A suite! 
DAVID Well, if work stops us getting to Paris until tomorrow, then work can buy us a nice hotel room. Anyway, it's a special occasion, isn't it? 
JENNY I would have thought that tonight of all nights we only need a bedroom. 
Close on David's reaction      -   she hasn't forgotten that tonight's the night. 
63   INT. HOTEL BEDROOM. NIGHT                                       63 
David and Jenny in bed, in a dimly lit bedroom. They are kissing - David more passionately than Jenny. He is making little whimpers of excitement, and Jenny is clearly trying hard to hide her nerves. We're acutely aware of her age, and of her virginity. Suddenly David breaks off. 
DAVID Hold on a second. I've got something. 
Rather absurdly, he half-disappears over the side of the bed, reaching for something on the floor. He comes back with a banana. Jenny stares at him. 
JENNY What on earth is that for? 
DAVID I thought....I thought we might want to practice. 
Jenny shrieks with horror. 
JENNY With a banana? 
DAVID I thought we'd get the messy bit over with first. 
JENNY David, I don't want to lose my virginity to a piece of fruit. 
DAVID I'm sorry. 
David attempts to kiss her again. Jenny wriggles clear. 
JENNY Let's wait until we get to Paris. I think the moment might have gone. 
DAVID I'm sorry, Minnie. I'm such a fool. 
Jenny doesn't deny it. 
JENNY And David..... if tomorrow night does happen, it will never happen again, so... 
DAVID (alarmed) Why won't it ever happen again? 
Jenny laughs. 
72   INT.   CLASSROOM. DAY                                      72 
Jenny's English class file past Miss Stubbs at the end of a lesson. Miss Stubbs stops Jenny. 
MISS STUBBS Jenny, could I have a word? 
JENNY Of course.(To Hattie and Tina) I'll catch you up. 
Miss Stubbs waits until the room empties. 
MISS STUBBS You can do anything you want, Jenny. You know that. You're clever and you're pretty... But sometimes those things fight. I'm worried that at the moment clever Jenny and pretty Jenny are fighting. 
JENNY What do you mean? 
MISS STUBBS I couldn't bear it if clever Jenny lost. It's because of people like you that I plough through illiterate essays by Sandra Lovell about her pony. And there aren't many of you, I can tell you. One every few years. Is your boyfriend interested in clever Jenny? 
JENNY I think so. 
MISS STUBBS Interested enough to let her do what she wants? 
JENNY He couldn't stop me. 
MISS STUBBS He might not have to stop you. That's what I'm trying to tell you. 
JENNY (frustrated) I'm not sure what you're trying to tell me. 
MISS STUBBS I'm telling you to go to Oxford. No matter what. Or you'll break my heart. 
Jenny looks at her. 
JENNY (quietly) Where did you go? 
MISS STUBBS Sorry? 
JENNY (louder, bolder) Where did you go? Which university? 
MISS STUBBS Girton. Cambridge. 
JENNY Oh. 
MISS STUBBS What does that mean? `Oh'? 
JENNY You're clever. And you're pretty. So presumably, Clever Miss Stubbs won. And here you are, reading all those pony essays. I don't know. These last few months, I've been to Paris, and to jazz clubs, and I've eaten in wonderful restaurants, and seen wonderful films, heard beautiful music... 
MISS STUBBS I'm sure you have. But I was filled up with beautiful things, books and music and conversation, in exactly the same way at Cambridge. And I didn't have to pay the same sort of price. Are you taking precautions, Jenny? 
Jenny stares at her angrily. 
JENNY It's nothing to do with that. 
MISS STUBBS Isn't it? 
JENNY Maybe our lives are always going to end up with pony essays. Or housework. And yes, maybe we'll go up to Oxford. But if we're all going to die the moment we graduate, maybe it's what we do before that counts. 
MISS STUBBS I'm sorry you think I'm dead. 
JENNY I don't think you're dead. But... 
MISS STUBBS (coldly) You'd better get to your next class. 
She turns her back on Jenny. 
73   EXT. CAR. NIGHT                                             73 
Helen, Danny, Jenny get out of David's Bristol, which is parked outside a nightclub called Esmerelda's Barn. David has parked next to a white Rolls-Royce. 
JENNY (looking at the Rolls- Royce) And we know the person who owns this? 
DAVID Yes. Perec Rachman. He's a.... 
DANNY A bastard. 
Danny and David laugh. 
DAVID He's a business acquaintance, and we need to talk to him. 
JENNY I gathered that much. But why do we have to crawl around the West End looking for his car? Why don't you just make an appointment, if you want to see him? 
The men snigger. 
DAVID Jenny, we should go. It's late. 
JENNY (disappointed) Oh. Yes. 
DANNY Alas. One day, school will be over forever, and we can talk about art all night. 
DAVID (to Danny) You're all right in a taxi, aren't you? 
He guides Jenny firmly out of the club. 
77   EXT. CLUB. NIGHT.                                           77 
Jenny is about to to open the passenger door of the Bristol, but David stops her. 
DAVID Wait there. 
He runs to the back of the car, opens the boot and starts rummaging through it. It seems to be full of everything but the thing he's looking for. 
JENNY What are you doing? 
He slams the boot shut and comes back empty-handed. 
DAVID Will you marry me? 
Jenny stares at him for a moment, then laughs. 
JENNY What were you looking for? 
DAVID I thought I had a ring. It wouldn't have been the right one. But it would have done for tonight. 
JENNY (eyes twinkling with amusement) Oh, David. 
DAVID I'm serious. 
JENNY You're very sweet. 
DAVID What do you think? 
JENNY (helplessly) Please take me home. 
She gets into the car. We see the desperation in David's face, lit by the headlights of a passing taxi, as he slams the door on Jenny after she's got in. 
78   EXT. SCHOOL YARD. DAY                                        78 
Jenny, Tina and Hattie all smoking in the school toilets. Jenny is distracted, and standing apart from the others. Tina looks at her. 
TINA How do you say `A penny for your thoughts?' in French? 
HATTIE A franc is too much, isn't it? 
TINA For her thoughts, yes. You'd be overpaying by about ninety-nine centimes. 
Suddenly the door bursts open and the Latin teacher comes in. 
79   INT. HEAD'S OFFICE. DAY                                      79 
The three girls are lined up in front of the headmistress, hands by their sides. 
HEADMISTRESS I'm surprised that you two are standing in front of me. I'm not surprised to find you here, Miss Mellor, though I do feel rather like the judge who sent Al Capone to prison for tax evasion. We take a very dim view of smoking. We take an even dimmer view of some of your other behaviour, which as far as we know has taken place off school premises. Your appearance here today, however, allows me to remind you that we are trying to teach you how to become young ladies, not nightclub hostesses. In reality, of course, you are neither. You are merely silly little girls. Detention after school. Go away. 
Jenny's face sets hard. Something in her shuts down. 
80    EXT. JENNY'S BALCONY. EVENING                                80 
Jenny is smoking on the balcony. 
80A   INT. JENNY'S BEDROOM.                                        80A 
Jenny is at her desk in her bedroom, trying to work, but she can't concentrate. Her hair is tied back in a pony- tail. She gets up, pulls back the curtains, looks out of the window. We see what she sees: a sleepy suburban street at night. She looks back at her desk. It looks even more boring than the street. She looks at her scrubbed seventeen- year-old face in the mirror - so much younger than the Jenny we have seen with David. She makes herself up, and she gets older and more glamorous before our eyes. In her make-up and her school uniform, she's half-woman, half- child. We hear the noises drifting up from the kitchen: the radio, the washing-up, occasional muffled conversation. Jenny walks out of the bedroom and slips downstairs. 
81    INT. KITCHEN. EVENING                                        81 
Jenny's mother and father are doing the washing up and listening to the radio. They have their backs to the door. Jenny enters the room quietly and watches them for a moment 
MAN ON THE RADIO They do need some looking after, but nothing that will require too much work. Just leave them in your potting shed for a couple of weeks, and they'll look after themselves. 
JACK Oh, aye. The potting shed. Who does he think I am? Prince Rainier of Monaco? 
JENNY What if I got married instead of going to college? 
Jack and Marjorie turn around and stare at this strange apparition wearing too much make-up and a school uniform. 
Tina doesn't need to say anything - she just looks at Jenny, makes a pair of spectacles with her fingers and squints. Jenny's giggling fit increases in intensity. 
ANN Either his notion weakens, or his discernings are lethargied. Ha! Waking? Tis not so. Who is it that can tell me who I am? 
Jenny's arm shoots up, as if to answer the question. 
JENNY Ooh. Miss. Me. I can. 
Miss Stubbs looks at Jenny more in sorrow than in anger - Jenny's behaviour now is something new in their relationship. Jenny stares back at her defiantly. Suddenly Miss Stubbs notices something glinting on her hand: an engagement ring. 
MISS STUBBS Oh, Jenny. 
She is, as she promised she would be, heartbroken. 
JENNY What? 
MISS STUBBS Take it off. 
Hattie, who is sitting behind Jenny, notices the ring, too, for the first time. 
HATTIE Oh my God. Is that really what I think it is? I'M GOING TO BE A BRIDESMAID! 
There is an excited susurration in the classroom. 
MISS STUBBS You know there's a school rule about jewelry. 
JENNY Half the girls in this room are wearing jewelry. 
MISS STUBBS Yes. But none of it is going to ruin their lives. 
JENNY (coolly) We have a difference of opinion on that. 
Miss Stubbs stares at her. Jenny can only just steel herself to stare back. 
MISS STUBBS Let's see who's right. Come with me. 
Jenny doesn't move. 
MISS STUBBS Please don't make me drag you out like a child. 
Jenny gets to her feet. Teacher and pupil leave the room, while the rest of the class watches. 
83   INT. HEADMISTRESS'S OFFICE. DAY                      83 
HEADMISTRESS How far advanced are these ridiculous plans? Have you set a date? Have you decided on a church? 
JENNY We won't be getting married in a church. David's Jewish. 
The headmistress stares at her, dumbfounded. 
HEADMISTRESS Jewish? He's a Jew? You're aware, I take it, that the Jews killed our Lord? 
JENNY (beginning to feel less intimidated by her surroundings) And you're aware, I suppose, that our Lord was Jewish? 
The headmistress snorts scornfully 
HEADMISTRESS I suppose he told you that. We're all very sorry about what happened in the War. But there's no excuse for that sort of malicious and untruthful propaganda. 
Jenny smiles to herself. 
HEADMISTRESS Anyway, I can now see that you are even more in need of responsible advice than I realised. Is it true that you don't intend to sit for your exams? And therefore you won't be applying for University? 
JENNY Yes, that's right. 
HEADMISTRESS What do you think you're doing? 
JENNY Nobody has been able to explain to me the point of University. 
Therefore I don't see the point of the exams, either. 
HEADMISTRESS Nobody does anything worth doing without a degree. 
JENNY And nobody does anything worth doing with one, either. No woman, anyway. 
HEADMISTRESS So what I do isn't worth doing. Or what Miss Stubbs does, or Mrs Wilson, or any of us here. 
Jenny doesn't say anything. The headmistress takes her silence as an admission of defeat. 
HEADMISTRESS Because none of us would be here without our degrees, you realise that, don't you? And yes, of course studying is hard, and boring, and... 
Jenny can't contain herself any longer. 
Helen is bemused by their mirth. Danny watches   David thoughtfully. 
87   EXT. DANNY'S. NIGHT                                            87 
David and Jenny come out of Danny's flat and approach David's car. 
JENNY Danny didn't seem very pleased about our engagement. 
DAVID I thought that, too! I was wondering whether he might be a bit jealous. 
JENNY (trying not to be pleased) Jealous? 
DAVID You may have noticed that Helen's not really Oxford material. I'm going to keep him out of your way. 
They both smile. David opens the door for Jenny and she gets into the car. 
87A   INT. JENNY'S KITCHEN. DAY                                   87A 
Jenny is making David a cup of tea. Her mother is keeping an eye on Jenny - in Marjorie's mind at least, this is a rehearsal for something. 
DAVID I haven't put my...my stamp on it yet. Haven't had time. It needs a woman's touch, really. And if you don't like it, we can move. Just say the word. 
JENNY Where is the flat again? 
MARJORIE You have to put the cosy on straight away. 
Jenny sighs and rolls her eyes. She picks up the hand- knitted tea-cosy and puts it on her head. 
JENNY Like that? 
David laughs. 
MARJORIE (oblivious) No. On the tea-pot. 
JENNY (deadpan) Ah. 
She puts the tea-cosy on the tea-pot. 
DAVID Just down from Russell Square. Two minutes' walk from the underground. 
MARJORIE Jenny! We could walk to...(She tries to think of somewhere Jenny might find interesting.) We could walk to the British Museum! 
Jenny gives her a look. 
MARJORIE I'll leave you to it. Don't let it stew. 
She leaves the room. 
JENNY And this is where you're living? 
DAVID I've stayed there for the last couple of nights. (Beat) On and off. 
JENNY You've stayed there two nights "on and off"? 
DAVID Is that tea ready? One sugar, please. 
JENNY (frustrated by his evasions) David! 
DAVID I'm sorry. You must think I'm very odd. 
JENNY No, but.... You seem to float around. I never know where you are. 
She hands him his tea. 
DAVID A wandering Jew.(He pauses to take a sip.) If I tell you something, will you promise not to laugh? 
JENNY It depends on how funny it is. 
DAVID (mumbling) I live at home. 
JENNY We all live at home. 
DAVID No. I mean...I live at home...in the same way that you live at home. 
JENNY But I live with my mother and fa...(It clicks.) You don't mean it. 
David nods, shamefacedly. 
JENNY Your mother and father? 
DAVID Just my mother. My father's dead. I've been meaning to tell you, Minnie, and it would have been much better than all those silly lies. But... 
93   INT. CAR. NIGHT                                              93 
David starts the car, and glances in the rear-view mirror. 
DAVID Everyone happy? 
JACK I feel like Eamonn Andrews. 
DAVID Is that a good thing? 
MARJORIE Of course. Eamonn Andrews is the poshest person that Jack can imagine being. 
94   EXT. STREET/PETROL STATION. NIGHT                            94 
The Bristol cruises down a London arterial road. 
95   INT. CAR. NIGHT                                              95 
We see, from David's POV, a petrol station approaching. 
DAVID Sorry about this. 
He slows the car and turns in to the garage. 
96   EXT. GARAGE. NIGHT                                          96 
David gets out of the car as the attendant comes over. 
ATTENDANT How can I help you, sir? 
DAVID You might as well fill her up. 
David looks around and spots a phone box just outside the garage. He leans in through the open car window. 
DAVID I'm just going to make a quick call. I'll be two ticks. 
97   INT. CAR. NIGHT                                             97 
Jenny watches him walk towards the phone box. 
JACK Do you think we should offer him some petrol money? Or would he feel insulted? 
Jenny watches David as he dials the number. He notices her, waves, puts the money in the slot. 
JACK He'd feel insulted, probably. He said tonight was his treat. That must include the petrol, for God's sakes? 
David starts to talk, and turns away, as if he's frightened that someone in the car can lip-read. 
JACK What do you think? 
Nobody pays him any attention. They lapse into silence. Jack starts to fiddle with the features in the car - a table springs down from the seat in front of him, much to his alarm. 
JACK God almighty. What have I done? 
Jenny opens the glove compartment, looking for the cigarettes that David always keeps there. She finds the cigarettes, and closes the glove compartment. But she has seen something in there, so she opens it again. She takes out some letters and papers and starts to look through them. 
98   EXT. GARAGE. NIGHT                                           98 
David has finished his phone call and is walking towards the car. He sees Jenny looking through letters and papers, sees the open glove compartment, starts to run across the forecourt. 
DAVID (desperately) Jenny! 
It's too late. We see Jenny's stricken face, gleaming in someone else's headlights. 
99   INT. CAR. NIGHT                                              99 
David gets into the car. 
DAVID Jenny, I... 
JENNY (as cold as ice) Take us home. 
JACK What's going on? 
DAVID There's been a...Jenny's had a bit of a shock. 
Jenny laughs, mirthlessly, then starts to weep. 
JACK What's happened? 
JENNY It's another one of David's little muddles and misunderstandings. 
He opens the boot. It's full of cases of whiskey. Jenny doesn't even bother asking what they are doing there. David takes one of the bottles, opens it, takes a long slug. 
JENNY Two minutes. And then I'll come out and drag you in. 
Jenny marches into the house and slams the door. The camera stays on David. He gets back into the car and takes another slug of whiskey. Then his shoulders begin to shake, and he cries and cries. 
101   INT. JENNY'S HOUSE. NIGHT                                   101 
Jenny comes in, leaving the door open for David. Her parents are standing in the sitting room, looking at her anxiously. Their coats are still on, and they haven't put the lights on yet. 
JACK What's going on? 
JENNY He's helping himself to some Dutch courage before facing you. Stolen Dutch courage, from the look of it. He has something to tell you. 
She stands, pale and young-looking again, opposite her parents. Suddenly they are all three lit up by headlights. Shot from their POV of the Bristol roaring off up the street. 
JACK He just drove off. 
We close slowly in on Jenny's face. But of course he'd drive off! 
JACK (pathetic) Can you tell us? Please? Jenny? 
Jenny can't deal with her own pain, let alone his. He already looks like a broken, foolish old man. They should hug. But they don't. 
102   EXT. STREET/DAVID'S HOUSE. DAY                              102 
A suburban street, full of semi-detached houses, not far from Jenny's house. Jenny walks down the road tentatively - she's looking at the numbers on the houses. She looks young again - tired, no make-up, no elegant clothes. She can't bring herself to wear anything that David bought her. 
She hesitates at the top of the driveway to the house, steels herself to walk down. But just at that moment the door opens; there's a homely-looking woman, early 30s. She is holding the hand of a three-year-old. Jenny is stunned. But there's more to come. 
The woman deposits the child in the drive, goes back into the house, comes out behind an enormous 1950s pram. David has found time to father another baby. 
WIFE Oh. Hello. 
JENNY (almost inaudible) Hello. I'm sorry. I think I must have the wrong house. 
The woman stares at her. 
JENNY Yes. I wanted number...It's my cello lesson. Silly. I... 
She dries up and looks at the woman helplessly. 
WIFE Oh, no. Don't tell me. Good God. You're a child. 
Jenny blushes. Beat. She turns and tries to walk back up the driveway, but the woman won't let her go. 
WIFE No. No. You stay here. If you're old enough to sleep with him, you're old enough to look at me. 
JENNY I can't. 
But she doesn't move, either. 
WIFE You didn't know about any of this. Presumably. 
Jenny shakes her head. 
WIFE No. They never do. Did he ask you to marry him? 
Jenny nods. 
WIFE Yes. Of course he did. You're not in the family way, are you? Because that's happened before. 
Jenny shakes her head. 
WIFE Thank God for that. At least you can escape intact. (Beat) Relatively speaking. Not all of them have done. 
She nods at the children. 
WIFE That's why he never goes through with anything. He does love them. 
JENNY (looking into the pram) She's beautiful. 
WIFE Thank you. He. (Bitterly) He's four months old. 
Jenny does the maths. It's all she can do to stop herself from reeling backwards - she's visibly shaken. 
JENNY Four months! 
WIFE Yes. Babies often are that sort of age. Perhaps you can remember a night four months ago when he seemed a little distracted. Anyway. If you'll excuse us. 
She pushes past Jenny and leaves her standing bereft on the path. 
DANNY Helen! Not now. 
Helen shrugs. 
DANNY I tried to tell him. I'm not speaking to him now, if that's any consolation. 
JENNY (bitterly) It's a funny world you people live in. You both watched me... carrying on with a married man, but you don't think it's worth saying anything. 
DANNY Ah, well if you want that sort of conversation...You watched David and I help ourselves to a map, and you didn't say much, either. 
He holds Jenny's gaze. She looks away. 
110   INT. HEADMISTRESS'S OFFICE. DAY                            110 
Jenny has put on her school uniform for this meeting; it completes a circle. She's back where she started from, or would like to be, anyway. If she seems older than she did when we first met her, it's because things have happened to her, and they've left a mark on her face. She's worried and tired. The headmistress, meanwhile, is delighted by her return - but only because of the opportunities for smugness and schadenfreude it provides. 
HEADMISTRESS So. Your Jewish friend turned out to be married already, I understand. How unfortunate. 
Jenny doesn't say anything. She has clearly decided to swallow anything she has to. 
HEADMISTRESS Anyway. How do you think we can help? 
JENNY I'd like to repeat my last year at school. Start all over again. 
HEADMISTRESS I got the impression the last time we spoke that you didn't see the point of school. Or of me, or of any of us here. 
JENNY I know. I was stupid. 
HEADMISTRESS So what is the point? 
JENNY I know that I need to go to university. 
HEADMISTRESS And what happens if some other chap wants to marry you during your studies next year? 
JENNY (laughing bitterly) Some other chap? There won't be any other chaps. Not for a long, long time, anyway. 
HEADMISTRESS I'm afraid I think you're the sort of young lady who attracts chaps whether she wants to or not. No,I think the offer of a place at this school would be wasted on you. You showed how little you valued us only weeks ago. And I must confess that it gives me a sort of grim satisfaction to return the sentiment now. 
JENNY (bitterly) Is it really so grim, your satisfaction? 
HEADMISTRESS It gives me no pleasure to see our schoolgirls throw their lives away. Although, of course, you're not one of our schoolgirls any more. Through your own volition. 
JENNY I suppose you think I'm a ruined woman. 
HEADMISTRESS Oh, you're not a woman. 
Beat. Jenny stands up and leaves without saying a word. The headmistress is pleased with her final line. 
111   INT. BEDROOM. NIGHT                                        111 
Jenny working hard in her room. It's been completely stripped bare of everything except schoolbooks. She has become ageless, genderless - her life is now monastic. 
112   EXT. PARK. DAY                                             112 
Jenny walking alone through her old park. 
113   INT. COFFEE BAR. DAY                                       113 
Jenny on her own, smoking nervously. Hattie and Tina come in. They obviously haven't seen her since it all happened. They both hug her sympathetically and sit down. Nobody knows what to say. 
TINA I'm sure my uncle knows someone who could kill him. If that would help. 
Jenny smiles wanly, and briefly. 
HATTIE We should have stopped you. 
JENNY Did you want to? 
TINA Of course we didn't. Why would we stop you? Restaurants, hotels, foreign cities, no exams... 
JENNY (Bitterly) Yes. Who'd have thought there'd be a down side to all that? I could tell you all about the imagery in Jane Eyre. But I couldn't see that a man who stole maps from old ladies might be a liar. 
They look at her. This is new information. 
HATTIE Well, if you'd told us that we might have tried to stop you. 
JENNY There are a lot of things I didn't tell you. I was dreaming. 
TINA That's the thing about our lives, isn't it? It's so easy to fall asleep, when there's nothing to keep you awake. 
Beat. 
