ANGEL EYES by 
Gerald DiPego 
October 1999 Seventh Draft/Polish 
FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY 
FADE IN: 
EXT. CITY STREETS (LOS ANGELES) - NIGHT 
CREDIT SEQUENCE. 
As OPENING CREDITS play, we study the city's nighttime pulse, ribbons of headlights moving and cross-connecting like blood through the veins of a body -- impressionistic, even beautiful, but what we're hearing is soulful trumpet-based MUSIC, mellow and haunting, the modern classic -- JAZZ sound of a Wynton Marsalis, putting a voice to our story. As CREDITS END, we... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
POV - EXT. FREEWAY - NIGHT 
Now the MUSIC is GONE, SOUNDS are MUFFLED and vision blurred. We get the impression of urgent movement. We hear BREATHING. There are VOICES, SHOUTS, even SCREAMS, but MUFFLED, far away. Only the breathing is distinct. We come to realize it is our breathing, and we are inside someone, looking out. The man whose POV this is is on the edge of consciousness and not far from death. He lies on the pavement of a freeway at the site of an accident only minutes after impact. 
His VISION goes IN and OUT of clarity. People are swarming around him and rushing by toward the carnage of wrecked vehicles. A SIREN BLOOMS in the distance and approaches haltingly. The man slips away, comes back toward consciousness, slips again. 
The crowd around the downed man parts to allow passage to a police officer. It is a woman, Officer SHARON POGUE, LAPD. She kneels at the man's side, taking charge, speaking, but we hear only SLIVERS of SOUND. He sees her face clearly now, close above him. 
Sharon is   a dedicated professional and more. We see down into her   to a place of real caring. She stares into our eyes and   connects. We begin to hear her now -- and there are more   SIRENS converging in b.g. 
SHARON Can you hear me? (shouting, off) This one's conscious! 
VOICE (O.S.) Paramedics on the way! 
We are slipping away again. Sharon holds us with her eyes, and she grips our hand. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON Wait. Wait. Listen to me.    Can you feel that? 
She holds on tight.     We see that our hand, held in her own, is bloody. 
SHARON That's my hand. Hold it.    Go on -- as hard as you can. 
We watch our hand gripping hers, and as we hold on, the sights and sounds around us grow more clear. 
SHARON It's over, and I've got you, and you're safe. You're safe now. You got that? Don't let go. Don't let me go. 
But our eyes unlock from Sharon's and DRIFT TO a patch of night sky. Her voice fades awawy. Our POV begins TO LIFT, MOVING TOWARD that sky, as the blue-black night begins to turn white. We GO INTO that white light and... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. LOS ANGELES CITYSCAPE - DAY 
We PICK OUT a police car from the traffic and FOLLOW. The beat being patrolled is a mixed neighborhood with some very rough edges. 
INT. POLICE CAR - DAY 
Officer Sharon Pogue is driving the car. It is two years since we saw her at the accident site. Her partner, ROBBY LEWIS, sips coffee and keeps one eye on the CAD monitor which lists all area police calls. She slows behind a car that is crawling along, an old 60s car, driven by a young man and woman who sit very close on the bench seat. The car's ENGINE is MISSING and smoking. 
SHARON That car is older than they are. 
ROBBY '67 Chevy Impala. 
SHARON That's what I said. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
ROBBY Needs a servicing. 
SHARON Don't we all. 
Robby nearly spits his coffee, laughing at what Sharon has said and trying not to choke. Sharon smiles, shaking her head. 
SHARON Get it together, officer. 
As Robby smiles, Sharon looks ahead at the young couple who each have an arm around the other. She is stroking his neck. He is making gentle circles in her hair. Sharon watches this, and for a moment her eyes reveal a depth that may be loneliness, but she quickly pushes her thoughts away and hits the HORN, startling Robby and startling the people ahead who now disengage and drive on. 
ROBBY Jesus, Pogo! Almost spilled my coffee again! You didn't like his hair, or what? 
SHARON I love Elvis hair. They were going two damn miles an hour. 
But Robby's eyes have caught something on the monitor. 
ROBBY Let's roll to this -- fight in progress. 
As Robby secures that coffee cup, Sharon hits the SIREN and speeds around the car in front of them. 
EXT. CITY STREET - DAY 
At the same time, a few blocks away, an OLD, FRAIL MAN is carrying two plastic grocery bags that are too heavy for him. 
Walking behind this man is a younger man named CATCH LAMBERT, an attractive man with some scarring on his face. His eyes, deep down, are haunted by something, but there is energy in his step. He is dressed in a relaxed and stylish manner, not expensive. He begins to pick up his pace to catch up to the old man. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON Not you, Rob. You're a rare unthreatened male cop with a good marriage, and you like to eat where I eat -- so everything's code four. 
She STARTS the CAR and starts to back out, and he reaches over and turns OFF the IGNITION. She stares hotly at him -- but then, slowly, she softens, takes a deep breath. 
ROBBY Come over    for dinner tonight. I'll call    Charlene. She'd like to see you.     It's been awhile. We'll talk about    it. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
She STARTS the CAR again, more calm, starts to drive out of the lot. 
SHARON Thanks. But  she'll invite friends, try and fix me up. She's always trying to fix me up so she doesn't have to worry about you and me. 
ROBBY She doesn't worry about that. 
SHARON They all worry about that. 
They both smile wryly, driving on. 
SHARON You don't need to fix me, Robby, or fix me up. I don't want some guy to heart and soul me and then walk away 'cause he can't stand the cop thing -- or worse: he wants cop stories every night 'cause it turns him on, and he has no idea who I am inside my head. Anyway, I'm busy tonight. 
ROBBY Got some action, huh?    Well, that's promising. 
SHARON Yeah.   Hot and heavy. 
IMMEDIATE CUT TO: 
INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
She is on the floor using an exercise rig, sliding into crunches, pushing herself, sweating, alone. We BEGIN DRIFTING TO the rain-spattered window as night sounds filter in, HORNS, SOMEONE SHOUTING, a CAR MOVING BY with THUNDEROUS BASS MUSIC that pulses the very air and RATTLES the LOOSE GLASS of her window. 
EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS - NIGHT 
Catch Lambert is walking the wet streets, head down in the rain. Far away we hear that car with a BASS-BLASTING RADIO. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
In the glow of a street lamp, Catch sees a bright-colored object in the gutter. He picks it up out of the gurgling rain water. It is a small toy, a discarded superhero. He puts it in his pocket, walks on. 
Now the car, the prowling, MUSIC-BLASTING, BASS- THUNDERING CAR turns a corner and begins rollling along slowly -- beside Catch. He glances over, walking on. There are four tough-looking MEN in the car, looking for trouble. The MUSIC is DEAFENING. Catch glances again, walks on. Their eyes follow him like gun barrels. He stops and walks out on the street, moving toward the car, shouting over the music. 
CATCH Hey! You want to turn that volume down? What's your point? 
The men, incredulous, stop the car and snap OFF the MUSIC in order to make sure they're hearing right. They stare death at Catch. 
DRIVER (MAN) What did you say? 
CATCH What's the point of blasting your music through the whole zip code? Don't you realize there are kids trying to sleep in these apartments -- old people, sick people? 
They can hardly believe this. 
DRIVER You better watch your mouth, asshole. 
Catch meets the man's look with his own unflinching, haunted eyes. 
CATCH Why?   What're you gonna do?   Kill me? 
Catch's look is not a macho challenge. It's something else -- beyond that, a man somehow without limits. One of the riders in the backseat taps the Driver's shoulder. 
MAN #2 Guy's nuts.   Let's go. 
The Driver, never breaking his death stare, snaps on the DEAFENING MUSIC and then slowly rolls on, still glaring at Catch. Catch stands in the rain, watching them go. 
INT. CATCH'S APARTMENT CORRIDOR - SAME NIGHT 
Catch is arriving home, soaking wet. He lives in a slightly-seedy three-story. As he walks down the corridor toward his apaprtment, he passes a neighbor's door and notices a set of keys dangling from the lock. He pauses -- and then knocks softly on the door. 
Someone looks through the peephole and then opens the door -- a young single mother, friendly but with a little caution, too. She recognizes Catch. Behind her is a little boy, (five). The woman's name is CANDACE. Her son is TOMMY. 
CANDACE Hi. 
CATCH Hi.   Your keys are in the... 
He gestures, and she sees the keys and retrieves them, more friendly now. 
CANDACE Oh, thank you. Thanks a lot. God. I was trying to carry Tommy and all these bags. He was so tired. Of course, as soon as I put him down he had all this energy... 
While she is talking, Catch is staring deeply at the boy, who is shy. Catch almost speaks to the boy, wants to, goes halfway to a smile -- but the sight of the kid stirs that layer of darkness in Catch. He nods a good-bye to the mother and is about to go. She thinks about this, as he is turning, and pushes through her remaining caution to say... 
CANDACE Y'know, we were just baking nectarine bars because the peaches weren't ripe. Ever had a nectarine bar? 
He smiles and seems to want to stay, but he is already retreating. His contact goes only so far -- and no further. 
CATCH Sorry.   Gotta be going. 
And with one more glance at the boy, he walks to his apartment, unlocks it and steps in. 
INT. CATCH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
He walks into a bare living room -- no chairs, tables, lamps, nothing on the walls. He walks into a spotless, never-used kitchen and flips on the light, opens a drawer. 
In the drawer is a collection of kids' toys, some found, some purchased, mostly plastic figures. The action of opening the door has started some battery-operated animals moving around in there. Now from his pocket he takes the plastic superhero he just found and drops it in and closes the drawer. 
He walks back into the living room. He sits on the floor, leans back against the wall, his clothes still soaked from the rain. He stares at his thoughts, looking a bit numb -- and lost. 
EXT./INT. DRY CLEANERS SHOP - DAY 
SANCHEZ Sergeant's going to want to talk to you, Mr. Lambert. We'll need a statement. 
RAY Don't worry about it. That's just procedure. Look -- we appreciate what you did. No bullshit. Let us buy you a drink tonight, all right? You know where the Rib House is? 
Catch glances at Sharon again, and he nods. 
EXT. UPSCALE RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY (SAME DAY) 
Catch, a bit bruised and dirty from his tackle, is carrying groceries up the walkway steps to a small, well- kept home. He is taking out a key as he walks to the covered portico. 
INT. MRS. CHU'S HOME - DAY 
ELANORA CHU, 60, is an attractive woman with warmth and intelligence in her eyes. She is in a wheelchair, at a writing table where she carefully translates an English text into Chinese characters. 
She glances up as Catch opens the front door and heads for the kitchen, speaking as he goes, not looking at her or into the living room at all. 
CATCH I got you nectarines because the peaches are hard as rocks. 
ELANORA Your jacket's all dirty. 
She rolls away from the table in her motorized chair -- and as they speak across the house, she performs a ritual... 
CATCH (O.S.) I tackled a guy. 
Elanora is moving about the living room, picking up framed photographs and turning them face down. We don't see what -- or who -- is in these photos. She is turning them all in a routine way, used to this. 
ELANORA Why would you 'tackle' a guy?! 
CATCH (O.S.) Why do you think? 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
Catch is at the cupboards, putting away groceries as Elanora rolls into the kitchen, her CHAIR HUMMING. 
CATCH He had the ball. He was going for a touchdown. 
ELANORA Can you be serious? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
CATCH (as he works) What day is today? 
ELANORA Wednesday. 
CATCH No. 
They are not smiling at their little jokes, but they have an ease with each other and the deep love of dear friends. He doesn't pause in his work, but we can see some nervousness in him as he says... 
CATCH Met somebody today. 
Mrs. Chu is now taking some of the groceries out of the bags to help. 
ELANORA Oh? That's good. Ahh -- they had the broccolini today. Thank you. 
CATCH A woman. 
Elanora is more interested and curious now, still helping with the groceries and being casual. 
ELANORA You didn't tackle her, too, did you? 
CATCH No. 
ELANORA Good, Catch. 
CATCH She's a police officer. 
ELANORA (stops; worried) Are you in trouble? 
Catch goes on working, a depth in his eyes. 
CATCH No.   No trouble. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Elanora watches him work and gladdens slightly.     We see her own depth of feeling. 
ELANORA Well... that's a good thing. 
He is still working, but his eyes are on his thoughts, his struggle. 
CATCH I saw her once a long time ago. 
Elanora stares a moment.      This has meaning for her. 
ELANORA Where? 
He doesn't answer.      He's nervous about this. 
CATCH She looks the same. 
Now she watches him as he moves to the refrigerator and continues his work in silence. 
INT. RIB HOUSE - THAT NIGHT 
It's a noisy restaurant with a large bar area. We PAN TO a booth of off-duty cops, out of uniform now, including Ray, Sanchez, Sharon and a few more male officers. They're all a bit high. Sharon shows the signs, too. They are passing around a photo now as one COP looks at it and says... 
SHARON You look familiar. 
CATCH I guess I live on the beat you patrol. 
Her way to cover nervousness is to be blunt, even tough. 
SHARON Why would you do that -- jump a man with a gun? 
CATCH (shrugs) He was going to shoot you. 
SHARON He could've shot you. You have a death wish? You a bungee jumper? 
CATCH No. I didn't have time to think about it. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON What d'you think about it now? 
CATCH I figure... it was worth the risk. 
SHARON For someone you don't even know? 
CATCH Yeah -- and for what you do. I think cops are great. Out there, trying to keep it safe. You know? Tough job. Firemen are everybody's heroes. Kids wave at firemen. People should wave at cops. Did you ever think about how many people are walking around this town because you saved them? 
SHARON I never thought about it. 
CATCH ... because you helped them or because you arrested somebody who would've hurt them or because you just... did your job? 
SHARON Now I'm walking around this town because of you. Ever think about that? Maybe you should be a cop. 
CATCH I don't know... I look pretty dumb in a hat... 
He has made her smile. 
CATCH ... and I don't drive and, like I said, I don't talk to many people. Am I talking too much? I am. You go ahead. 
SHARON Okay. What d'you do? You employed around here? Oh, God. Sorry. Every time I try to talk to somebody, it comes out like an interrogation. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
CATCH Where do you want to be ten years from now? 
SHARON What? 
CATCH Somebody taught that to me. Kind of a shortcut. You ask somebody, what are your plans for tomorrow -- what're your dreams for ten years from now. It's supposed to get things started. 
SHARON Does it work? 
CATCH I never tried it. 
SHARON Bullshit. 
CATCH No. Really. I just remembered it -- God is my witness. 
SHARON Not in here.    It's mostly cops. 
Now she has made him smile, the first real smile we've seen from Catch. It's open and real and she is charmed by it. 
SHARON You have a nice smile. 
She's a bit self-conscious, saying that, and just as she says it, the waitress arrives with shots and beers for both of them. Sharon looks up, questioning, and the waitress nods toward the booth. Catch and Sharon see the cops, staring, smiling, raising their glasses. There is a hint of teasing in their grins. And now Sharon is more self-conscious, and a bit tough again, taking her drink and turning back to Catch. 
SHARON So... what were we talking about? Oh, yeah, you were giving me some line about starting a conversation. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
CATCH The shortcut. 
SHARON Okay.    I'll play. 
They clink glasses and drink.         Then... 
SHARON Tomorrow I've got a night watch shift. If the weather clears, in the morning I'll go hiking. If it rains, I'll go to the gym -- and the laundromat. Ten years from now... I want to be living in some mountainous place. 
CATCH Tibet? 
SHARON Could be Tibet. Could be Colorado. Your turn. 
But now Ray Juliette is approaching the table. 
RAY Hey, Pogo -- don't keep him all to yourself. Come on over, Lambert, join the group. We'll buy you dinner, give you a medal for saving Pogo's ass. 
Sharon drains her shot and stands. 
SHARON Actually, I'm kind of tired, Ray. I'm taking off. 
CATCH Oh.     I'll... walk you to your car. 
Catch stands and turns to Ray. 
CATCH Thanks for the drink. 
RAY Least we could do. We don't like her very much -- but we don't want to lose her. 
He rises and hurriedly gets his purchases off the elevator so the woman and little boy can enter. 
CANDACE Shopping day? 
He smiles at her, a bit less subdued than before as he gets his things into the hall -- and he manages a special look for Tommy, a wink. He frees the elevator; they step inside. As the door starts to close, Catch's face "follows" the sliding door with a funny look for the boy. We hear Tommy laugh as the door closes. Catch carries his new possessions to his apartment. 
EXT. OLDER HOUSE - LATE DAY 
A well-kept older home, well-planted, pretty. A woman of nearly 60 is tending the flowers. She hears someone approaching the gate in the wooden fence. She looks up. Sharon is at the gate, in uniform, on her dinner break. The older woman is her MOTHER, Elaine Pogue. There is an old strain between them, a sadness -- and a nervousness in Elaine. She's a quiet woman. She smiles at her daughter as Sharon comes through the gate. They hug tentatively, a lot of baggage here. Sharon turns to the garden. 
SHARON It's looking great, Mom. 
MOTHER (pleased) Thanks, honey. It's the best year ever for the impatiens. The very best. 
There is a beat of awkward silence. 
MOTHER Let's go in. 
INT. POGUE HOME - DAY 
As they enter. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
It's a bit dark inside, older furniture, lots of keepsake clutter and photos. Sharon is restless in here -- bad memories. 
SHARON Looks the same. Still smells like cigarettes. I thought he quit. 
MOTHER He's down to six a day. 
SHARON Your hair looks nice. 
Her Mother touches her hair, self-consciously. She can't help glancing at her daughter in all that gear -- bullet-proof vest under her shirt, radio, cuffs -- and that gun. 
MOTHER Are you well? 
Sharon steps close to the mantel. There is a photo of her there, graduating from the police academy, a professional, not a family shot. She is surprised. 
SHARON I guess I'm well. Is this always here? 
MOTHER Yes.   It's always there. 
SHARON Did Larry tell you I came by where he's working? Is that why you called me? 
MOTHER I called because we want to invite you to our renewal of vows. It's three weeks from Saturday. 
SHARON Who's 'we.'     You said 'we' want to invite you. 
MOTHER The family. 
Sharon takes that in, still looking about. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON How come you're renewing your vows? 
MOTHER It's sort of... a fresh start. 
SHARON Your idea? 
MOTHER No. Both of us. It's a way of... having the marriage blessed. 
SHARON Wasn't it blessed before? 
Her Mother sighs, sad for all the trouble between them. 
MOTHER Sherry... of course it was blessed. You just... 
SHARON I just what, Mom? 
MOTHER You just think about the bad, and you never remember the good. I wish you remembered the good. 
Sharon stares deeply at her. 
SHARON Sorry.  I wish I did, too. (then, almost like a child) Does he? Remember any good about me? 
MOTHER Of course. He doesn't hate you. He just... still feels hurt. 
SHARON Hurt?    I hurt him? 
MOTHER Being arrested like that. Somebody doesn't forget that. 
SHARON Oh? How come you forgot what he did? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
MOTHER It wasn't as bad -- you always make it sound worse. And it hasn't been that way for years. 
SHARON I'm glad it hasn't been that way. That means it worked, Mom. That was the point. That's why I did it. Christ. Why do I get punished for it? 
MOTHER Honey, nobody's punishing you. We're inviting you. Will you come? 
SHARON Of course I'll come. 
INT. DENNY'S - MORNING 
... and now it's 8:38, and Catch is still waiting and watching. 
INT. SHARON'S BEDROOM - MORNING 
She is still in bed, under the sheet. Someone begins KNOCKING on her door and she sits up, bleary and frustrated. 
SHARON Damn it! 
She stumbles out of the bedroom to her door. 
SHARON What?!     Who?! 
CATCH (O.S.) It's me. 
SHARON Oh, Jesus. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
She opens the door.    He wears a stern look.     She is not apologetic. 
SHARON I was just falling asleep. Finally. 
CATCH We made a date. 
SHARON It wasn't a 'date.' 
CATCH Okay, an 'appointment.'     I keep my appointments. 
She gives an exasperated moan and turns to stagger back to bed. He closes the door and follows. 
SHARON I called you.    I called you at seven. 
CATCH I get up early. I walked there. I waited there. 
SHARON Check your messages. 
She heads for the bed, passing a     mirror, looking at her rumpled self and groaning at the     sight.  She climbs into bed and snuggles there and puts     the sheet over her head. He is entering the bedroom. He      carries a Denny's take- out bag. 
SHARON (under the sheet) I need more sleep. Come back in a month. 
CATCH Come back? What makes you think I'd come back here? 
The lump under the sheet says... 
SHARON Then why are you here? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
CATCH I'm here to tell you that when you tell someone you're going to be somewhere then that someone rearranges his life and you should be more aware of that and a lot more considerate instead of just... 
She has come out from under the sheet and is watching him. 
SHARON What's in the bag? 
CATCH What?   None of your business. 
SHARON Did you bring some coffee? 
CATCH You think you deserve coffee? 
SHARON What else did you bring?   Food? 
CATCH (opening the bag) You definitely don't deserve food. I've got coffee, sugar, sweetener, non-dairy... 
SHARON Just black.   Black. Thanks. 
She sits up. He hands her the coffee.         She sips, relishing the sip, then studies him. 
SHARON So what kind of life did you rearrange in order to get to Denny's? You never said one word about yourself last night. What d'you do? 
CATCH What's the difference? 
SHARON What's the difference?! You're standing in my bedroom. That's the difference. Who are you? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
CATCH Somebody who keeps appointments. 
SHARON You're ducking. Don't duck. (then a thought) Oh, shit -- you're married, right? 
Convinced -- she picks up one of the throw pillows from the bed and tosses it at him. 
CATCH I'm not. 
SHARON I don't believe you. 
CATCH You don't believe me?   Give me back the coffee. 
SHARON No. 
CATCH Give me the coffee. 
She looks at him, looks at his empty place, his non-life, and back at him again. 
SHARON I don't know.    I just don't know. 
She breaks off the stare and heads for the door.     He watches her go. 
EXT. UPSCALE NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY (SAME DAY) 
As Catch charges up the stairs to the wide porch of Mrs. Chu's well-kept home, carrying a grocery bag, head full of his thoughts. 
INT. MRS. CHU'S HOME - DAY 
As Catch enters. She is watching TV. He does glance into the living room briefly to throw her a quick hello smile, before moving to the kitchen. She SNAPS OFF the TV and begins turning the photos face down as she sends her voice to the kitchen. 
ELANORA I remember that. That was a smile. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
He is putting groceries away as she rolls into the room. He doesn't look at her, tries to be casual, but his thoughts are bubbling out. 
CATCH You know the cop -- the woman cop? She... visited me. 
Mrs. Chu registers surprise at this, but keeps it covered and casual. 
ELANORA Oh?   Where did she sit? 
CATCH I have a chair now. 
ELANORA You're... seeing her? 
He darkens a bit as he works. 
CATCH She has a lot of questions.    She wants to know everything. 
ELANORA Of course she does. Everybody does. 
CATCH We could start from today.    What's so wrong with that? 
ELANORA Tell her. 
The can in Catch's hand bangs on the cupboard, and he stops, suddenly uptight. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
CATCH Tell her what? 
Mrs. Chu comes closer. 
ELANORA Tell her, Catch. Tell somebody. It's been almost two years. 
CATCH (a warning) Nora... 
ELANORA Every time I tell somebody, it gets a little bit easier. I'm not saying it goes... 
His next warning is tough and absolute. 
CATCH Nora! 
She is silenced. The moment hangs. She rolls her chair to him, takes a box of cookies out of his hand, opens the box and eats one, defusing the moment. 
ELANORA She nice? 
He starts to work again. 
CATCH She's tough. 
ELANORA She pretty? 
CATCH That doesn't matter. 
ELANORA (smiles) She is pretty. 
CATCH She's sort of pissed-off at me. 
ELANORA Apologize. 
CATCH For what? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
ELANORA It doesn't matter. We like it when men apologize. 
He stares at her a while. 
CATCH I'm sorry I yelled at you. 
She smiles and hands him the box. 
ELANORA Have a cookie.     See? 
INT. POLICE REPORT ROOM - NIGHT 
Sharon is typing at the computer, dark and dogged in her work.  Lieutenant Sanderman is watching her through the glass wall of the watch commander's office. He comes out of the office and moves to where Sharon is typing. 
SANDERMAN Sharon... 
KATHY He's okay now. He's torn up about it. Don't make him mad. 
Sharon moves closer. She reaches out, touches Kathy with a comforting touch as the woman turns her bruised face away. 
SHARON When Larry and I were growing up, our mother said that all the time. 'Don't make your father mad.' (pause) Has he hit Larry Jr. yet? 
KATHY He never would. 
SHARON Oh.   Just you, huh? 
Larry is in the doorway now, angry. 
LARRY What d'you think you're doing in my house, Shar? In my home. 
She walks out of the room and he follows her. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY 
She turns on him. 
SHARON You see a pattern here, bro? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
LARRY I lost my temper. Things got out of hand. It won't... 
SHARON People always say that: 'I've got a temper.' Like it's an excuse. 
LARRY I don't need a goddamn lecture. 
She comes very close to him. 
SHARON You want to hit someone?       Next time your 'temper' flares      up, Lar, and you just have to hit      somebody, you go home and hit your      father. 
LARRY You blame everything on him. 
SHARON I'm blaming you, you fucking coward. 
He grabs her shirt hard. 
LARRY You don't come in here... 
He pushes her into the wall. 
LARRY You don't come in here and call me names. 
SHARON What do you call a man who uses his wife as a punching bag? (pause) Coward. 
He swings a slap at her. She blocks it and punches him hard in the face, and he crashes down on the floor. Kathy comes running, calling out... 
KATHY Don't hurt her, Lar...! 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Kathy sees that it's Larry on his ass. The little boy comes out of his room. There is a surprised moment. Then Kathy picks up the child and takes him back to his room. Larry is sitting up, shaken, his nose bleeding. Sharon goes close to him, rigid with fury. 
SHARON I know how it feels, 'cause I remember. I remember standing between you and Dad and taking the blows for you -- and for what?! You turned out to be just like him, you bastard. (pause) And so did I. 
And she leaves the house and SLAMS the DOOR. 
INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
She is just returning home after her shift, very tired, drained. She absently turns ON the TV, the STEREO. She notices a blinking light on her MESSAGE MACHINE and hits the button. 
LARRY (V.O.) I bet you feel real proud of yourself, Shar, knocking me down in front of my family. You know what I've got in my hand? I've got a Polaroid picture of my busted-up face, and I'm thinking of sending it to your department, to your lieutenant. I'm going to turn you in to the police, Shar, and see how you like it. 
The message ends.     She stands there a moment. 
SHARON (quietly) Oh, God. Oh, shit. 
She sits on the edge of a chair, worried, deep in her thoughts, hitting bottom -- the darkness engulfing her. In a moment, she looks at her desk, walks there, opens a drawer, pulls out that piece of tape with Catch's number on it -- but it is all stuck to itself. She hesitates, then starts to pick it apart when a KNOCK at the door makes her jump. She wonders, then, somehow, she knows. She walks to the door. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON It's you, right? 
She unlocks   and opens the door, stares at Catch, very vulnerable,   on the very edge, her pain and fear over Larry just   under the surface. Catch holds a box of cookies as   an offering. 
SHARON Can you just shut up?    Just shut up and listen. 
CATCH I didn't say anything. 
SHARON I don't want to talk. I don't care if you have to play some game and pretend you're a... 'angel of mercy' or... whatever. I don't care, but I don't want to hear about it. All right? I don't want to hear anything. 
She steps back, allowing him in, and closes the door and turns to him. 
SHARON It's a bad night. 
He sees her pain and puts his arms around her, pushes through his fear and holds her -- and she lays her head on his chest. He embraces her fully, and the effect on him goes deep, to his core, where there is both pain and longing, but he holds on to her, even rocks her a bit. She sighs. In a moment... 
SHARON This is good... but I'm too tired to stand up anymore. 
He walks her to the couch and has her sit, and then slowly, gently, he "disarms" her. He lifts her leg, takes the ankle holster and gun off, puts it on the table. He turns her, takes the cuffs off her belt from the middle of her back. He reaches into her pants pocket and removes the Mace. From her shirt pocket he takes her I.D. shield. He has her lie down on the couch now, their faces close, eyes locked. They linger... 
As someone approaches them, Catch makes eye contact and smiles a small, friendly smile-in-passing. He gets a brief smile in return. He and Sharon amble on. He does it again. 
SHARON You know everybody here? 
He nods to another YOUNG MAN he's never met... 
CATCH How's it goin'? 
YOUNG MAN Goin' uphill, man. 
Catch and Sharon smile. 
CATCH (to Sharon) You try it. 
SHARON Try what? 
CATCH Go ahead. We need this. Everybody. 
She has misgivings. A young woman is bustling along. Sharon makes eye contact and presents a nervous smile and a nod -- but the woman looks at her sternly and bustles on. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON I feel like a jerk. I feel like a smiley face. 
Catch smiles, Sharon frowns, but when an OLD MAN passes, she gives a small smile. The Man lights up. 
OLD MAN Mornin'. 
Catch looks at her. She tries to shrug it off, but can't quite hide her pleasure. Now Catch is pausing as a woman is walking her six-year-old daughter to their parked car. 
Catch makes eye contact with the girl and does a goofy wave that makes her smile. Sharon smiles, too. As the girl's MOTHER is unlocking the car, the girl shyly looks back at Catch for more fun. He does that quick finger trick -- trying to catch his own thumb, and the girl giggles But the Mother is impatient. 
MOM Go on. 
The girl gets in. The Mother is about to close the door. She frowns, mean-eyed. 
MOM Move your arm! 
The girl slides in further,         and the Mother slams the door. The girl follows her          mother with hurt eyes as she walks around to the driver's         side. Catch has paused to watch this, his eyes gentle         on the girl. The Mother is about to enter the car when         she sees Catch staring. 
MOM What are you staring at? 
CATCH She feels bad 'cause you yelled at her. 
MOM What?! Who the hell do you think you are? 
Sharon is uncomfortable.       Catch persists, never flinching at the woman's anger. 
CATCH She just needs you to smile at her. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
MOM It's none of your business! 
CATCH Why not smile at her?   What's it cost? 
MOM Who the hell are you to talk to me?! 
Catch's anger is like flint in his eyes.         It surprises Sharon. She's upset by this. 
CATCH You're so damn impatient. 
WOMAN Get away from me! 
CATCH You're so busy being pissed off, and time is going by. 
WOMAN What?! 
CATCH It's not her fault. 
The Woman gets into the car and slams the door. 
WOMAN I'm calling the police! 
CATCH No.  I'm calling the police. (turns to Sharon) Hey -- police. 
The Woman speeds her car away.       Sharon gets in Catch's face. 
SHARON Jesus Christ, Catch. 
CATCH Maybe she'll think about it now. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON You had no right to do that. God! You think you know everything?! Who the hell are you, some expert on raising kids?! The neighborhood angel?! Jesus! 
CATCH No. No, I just... some people are walking around blind... 
SHARON That's not your problem! 
CATCH Don't tell me what my problem is! 
SHARON Okay, fine -- you tell me what it is! 
LARRY That's not your business! Nobody called you, right? She didn't ask for you to come here. This is my family. You don't get it, 'cause you've got no family. Nobody. So you try to run everybody else's life. Jesus Christ -- get your own life. That's the goddam problem. Get your own goddamn life. 
Their stare holds, but she is giving way. 
SHARON Okay. I'm sorry I came here.       I'm sorry I hit you. Okay? 
LARRY Okay what? 
This is very hard for her. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON Don't go to my department, all right? 
LARRY Why the hell not? 
SHARON Larry... 
LARRY Why not?! 
SHARON Because the job's all I got. 
LARRY That's what I said, right?    No life. 
She nods, her voice smaller, almost a whisper. 
SHARON That's what you said. 
He makes her wait, thinking it over. 
LARRY And you won't come around here. You won't call. Ever. 
In a moment Sharon nods. 
LARRY And I don't want you to come to Mom and Dad's celebration... 
Her eyes snap to his, surprised. 
LARRY Not the church. Not the party. Stay away. I don't want you around. I don't want to see you, Shar. 
After another moment, she nods again -- and he snatches the photo out of his shirt pocket and pushes it against her chest and walks away. The photo falls to the ground. Larry says without turning... 
LARRY Go get a life. 
... and she snaps. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON I got a life! 
The words burst out of her, thick with tears, but she's not crying. Larry stops and turns. 
SHARON How the hell would you know about my life?! 
LARRY I know. 
SHARON You know nothing about me, because you don't want to know. The family doesn't want to know me. Well, too bad. Sharon's got a life. Sharon's got a boyfriend. Sharon's going hiking in the morning with her boyfriend. She's not sitting alone miserable like you want. Too bad! 
She reaches down, snatches the Polaroid photo off the ground, walks to her car, enters and slams the door as hard as it is possible to slam it. 
EXT. SANTA MONICA MOUNTAINS - DAY 
Moving through the panorama are two small figures on a hiking trail, traveling uphill on a ridge. 
ON SHARON, CATCH 
Sharon is pounding along, barely out of breath. She studies the beautiful view, and it helps her. It lifts her. Catch is falling behind, breathing heavily. 
CATCH Hey. Hey!   Can you wait up a minute?! 
She waits.     He catches up. 
SHARON I thought you walked all over the city. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
CATCH (gasping) The city is flat. Okay? Can we stop here? Can we examine the view? Have a Milky Way? I've burned every calorie I ever had. 
But she walks on. 
SHARON My favorite lunch spot is another half mile. 
CATCH Up?! 
She smiles and walks on, and he follows, calling out. 
CATCH I'm not one of those competitive guys, you know! 
EXT. POND - DAY (BIT LATER) 
Sharon is already unpacking their lunch as Catch trudges up and collapses near a stream-fed pond. She hands him a sandwich, but he shakes his head. 
CATCH No thanks. I can't eat and have a heart attack at the same time. 
EXT. COFFEE HOUSE - DAY 
Catch is standing outside, looking in through the large window, searching. His eyes settle on a man, and he stares. The man, about his age, is having coffee and reading the paper. Catch is staring deeply, mustering his courage. He walks into the place. 
INT. COFFEE HOUSE - DAY 
Catch hesitates, then walks over and stands beside this man until he -- JACK MOLINA -- looks up. Jack beams with recognition and surprise. 
JACK Catch -- Jesus! 
Catch is held back, smiling a bit, but on thin ice here, dipping into his past. 
JACK How are you? Sit down. Been years. You been out of town? 
CATCH (sitting) I've been around. 
Jack's smile clouds as memory kicks in. 
JACK Oh, man, I'm really sorry about what happened. I never got a chance to say... 
Catch, with a steady look, says... 
CATCH We don't need to go there. 
Jack nods a moment. 
JACK Okay. All right. So... what d'you want, a coffee? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
CATCH I want my old job back. (pause) What d'you think? 
JACK You been workin'? 
CATCH No, but I'm up to speed. 
JACK (thinks) Well, it's not good with Randal anymore. 
CATCH No? 
JACK No, he's out of it, but Danny Coley's got something going. Wanna go see 'im? 
Catch stares, nods. 
CATCH Finish your coffee. 
EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY (LATER SAME DAY) 
In a seedy parking lot, tough part of town, Robby and Sharon are arresting two teenage girls. One of them is leaning on the car as Sharon searches her. Robby stands back with the other (cuffed) girl. Robby is staring at Sharon through this moment -- noting the difference in her, still very professional -- but softer. The girl is upset, near tears. Sharon is gentle in her search. 
SHARON I have to check these jacket pockets. What's your name -- Allison? 
The girl nods, not trusting her voice. 
SHARON I need to unsnap this, Allison. I'm checking your waistband. You got to Whitney School? 
ALLISON St. Mark's. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Sharon is searching, Robby is noting all this, his eyes appreciating the difference. 
SHARON Lift your arms higher. Got a good basketball team at St. Mark's. You play basketball? 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT (LATER THAT NIGHT) 
Sharon and Robby are still on the job, their unit rolling down a residential street of apartment buildings. A parked car is BLASTING MUSIC, and Robby halts beside it. Sharon starts making dancing moves to the MUSIC, sitting there beside Robby, and he stares at her as she grooves, kidding it. Then Robby HITS the HORN to get the driver's attention in the parked car. Robby makes a gesture to lower the volume, and the man SNAPS OFF his TAPE. Robby rolls on, glancing at Sharon. She wears a small smile, checking their beat. 
ROBBY What's going on, Pogo?    You're not happy or anything? 
SHARON Well, it's a mix, Robby. Life is shit, but I'm dating this great dead guy. 
She smiles at Robby's look. 
SHARON He says before I came along, he thought he was dead. Sounds better when he says it -- (stops abruptly) Listen. 
ROBBY What? 
SHARON Shhh.   Sh! 
Robby stops the unit, rolling the windows down.     They hear the FARAWAY SOUND of... 
SHARON The trumpet player. 
Robby pulls over. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
ROBBY This time we got his ass. 
They exit the car and stand in the street, looking up, scanning the dark buildings -- but the sound is hard to track, a FAINT BALLAD on a skillful HORN. 
SHARON Wow. 
SHARON You don't know anything about it. So forget it. 
CATCH Well... I know about family. 
SHARON Oh, yeah?   What about it? 
CATCH It's... a door you don't close. 
SHARON I didn't close the door. 
CATCH You're closing it now. Right? Family invites you, you go. Family shows up, you welcome them in. That's family. 
SHARON Oh, sure. What if they don't deserve it? 
CATCH Then you forgive. 
SHARON You have all the answers. 
CATCH No. I just... It seems like a chance, doesn't it? A chance to make things right. I'd take it. Then you tried -- y'know? And it's up to them. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Sharon is considering his words, but she's also deep in her old pain, defensive, challenging. 
SHARON You close with your family? 
That hits him, but he keeps rubbing her, gentle now, looking a little lost. He doesn't answer. 
SHARON See?    So why should I listen to you? 
But as he works her back in silence, we see her facing her pain and thinking through it. 
INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - NEXT MORNING 
Just after dawn. Catch is on the couch, stirring in his sleep, in the grip of an unsettling dream. We hear what he hears: the VOICES of his wife, his son, murmurings. We're not sure of the words, even laughter. Catch's eyes snap open, jolted out of sleep, but the VOICES don't stop, and he suddenly sits up. The VOICES FADE as he catches his breath, gulping air. He tries to calm down. In a moment, he rises and moves to Sharon's bedroom. 
INT. BEDROOM - MORNING 
He comes to the side of the bed and sees that she is asleep. He sits on the bed and studies her, his dark thoughts dissipating as he watches her sleep, his eyes going deep. In a moment he begins to raise a hand to brush her cheek -- the way awakened her before -- but he stops before touching her. Instead, he brings his face close to her and lightly kisses her. 
She stirs. He kisses her again. She opens her eyes. They stare at each other. She raises a limp hand and touches his face. He begins to come close, slowly, for another kiss. She welcomes it. They kiss on the mouth, very tenderly. They kiss again -- deeper. They kiss again, and she holds him, and he moves fully onto the bed, lying over her and supporting his weight on his elbows and kissing and kissing and letting go for once, hungry for her because she is in his heart now, and she is a salvation, and there is a moment when they both pause and stare clear-eyed, acknowledging what they are doing, and both of them abandon their fear and pain and begin to smile, and they make love that way, smiling, as we slowly... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BLUES CLUB - NIGHT 
The night of that same day finds us at this neighborhoody place with a lot of down-to-earth atmosphere and not a lot of noise, like Harvell's in Santa Monica -- earthy blues and jazz from a small band in a darkish club, small dance floor. We PAN during this slow number and ARRIVE AT a few dancing couples, including Sharon and Catch who mostly just hold each other and sway. When their eyes meet, there is a lot of deep pleasure there. 
The music ends. The small crowd applauds. Couples head back to the tables, but the little band goes right into a more up-tempo but still earthy blues. Sharon stops and pulls Catch back onto the dance floor. He smiles and follows. 
This number has a driving beat, and, slowly, we watch Sharon drop her inhibitions and become more and more   free out there, and Catch is smiling and wowed by her, and   she laughs, wowing herself, and she keeps going, getting   wild and playful, and it's something to see. We LINGER ON    the joy and abandon. She's earned it. They go a little crazy, happy crazy, and in a while we... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
SAME - HOURS LATER 
The blues club is emptying out. It's late. The band is finishing what seems to be its last number, for the last of thinning crowd -- including a tired, happy Sharon and Catch who applaud the end of the number. Catch stares at her. 
CATCH What's your favorite song? 
He rises -- as if to go to the band with a request.     She smiles, spent. 
SHARON Catch, I'm beat. So are they.   I think they're finished. 
CATCH One more.   It's a surprise. 
She watches as he leaves her, walks to the bandstand.     He talks to the leader who is the PIANO PLAYER. 
SHARON'S POV 
From the instrument cases on the floor behind the piano, Catch picks up a trumpet case, opens it. Now Sharon's tired smile is changing to curiosity, wonder. 
ON CATCH 
As he puts the mouthpiece on the horn, nervous, but excited, too, speaking to the Piano Player. 
CATCH Thanks, Danny. 
DANNY (PIANO PLAYER) Gonna be good having you back, Catch. 
Catch comes to the edge of the bandstand, grinning a bit at Sharon, at his surprise for her, nervously fingering the horn. He puts it to his lips. 
ON SHARON 
Mouth-open surprise -- and then smiling with the wonder - - and Catch begins to play, closing his eyes and rendering a ballad, like the haunting "ANGEL EYES." 
Sharon's smile slowly fades, replaced by a much deeper look, not only because he is so good, but because he is showing her his heart, his love and even his pain -- more than he can show her any other way. We INTERCUT as he opens his eyes briefly, watching her, sending her the music, closing his eyes again to fall into the song -- as Sharon's eyes fill at the beauty and sadness of it, and at this look inside her man. We LINGER. Then... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. CLUB - NIGHT 
We keep the sound of CATCH'S TRUMPET going as he and Sharon exit the club and begin to stroll away, arms around each other. In a moment, he stops. He can't go another step. He has to kiss her. He holds her face and comes in for the kiss, and above the music we hear her say softly. 
SHARON Where I've never been kissed. 
He stops and stares a moment, then takes her hand and walks her out into the middle of the traffic-less boulevard and there, in the center of the street, kisses her, and she responds, and it is their finest, fullest moment, lifting on the MUSIC, and it is ironic and prophetic that at its peak they are washed over by the revolving light from a police car and a SIREN that CHIRPS once as they break, staring. 
She has entered the park and witnessed this from a distance. She is angling toward the playground. 
ON CATCH 
He watches Tommy at play with the figures, but it's almost too much for him. He touches the boy and rises, smiles and nods at Candace and begins to walk off. 
ON SHARON 
She hurries her steps to intersect with Catch. 
ON CANDACE, TOMMY 
CANDACE Wow, Tommy -- Look at them all. Did you say thank you? 
Now Tommy looks up. Catch is moving away with Bob, walking home. Tommy stands up, Candace calls out to stop Catch. 
CANDACE Excuse me! 
ON CATCH 
But he is walking on, some of the emotion seeping through, not darkness, some old joy welling up. We see, in b.g., Tommy starts to run after him to say thanks. We now have a convergence of Tommy, Sharon and Catch, who is moving steadily toward the street, crossing a bike path now. A BIKER is coming on. All in one moment Catch hears the WHIZZ of the BIKE, Tommy calling out "Thank you," and Candace shouting "Be careful!" And Catch goes cold inside and turns quickly and rushes onto the bike path, taking the collision with the bike so Tommy is sure to be safe. Catch and the biker fall hard. Sharon stops -- holding her breath. Tommy watches, wide-eyed, and Candace comes running. 
Catch is rising, a little sore and soiled.        The biker is angry. 
BIKER Goddammit -- I saw the kid. Jesus. I wasn't even close. 
But Catch is walking     away with that frozen, numb look, all shut down by his     fear and his memory as Bob trots along beside him and     the Biker comes after him and Tommy and Candace watch him     go and Sharon hurries her steps to catch up. The Biker      reaches Catch first. 
BIKER Wait a minute!     Hey! 
But Catch won't turn to him, walking on -- and the man gets in front of him, raging. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
BIKER Why the hell did you cause a wreck?! I told you -- I saw the kid, you idiot. I was... 
Pain and darkness build in Catch's eyes until he says in a quiet, choked voice, right into the Biker's face... 
CATCH One more word, and your life will change forever. 
The man stops talking, looking at the dead certainty in Catch's eyes. He wants to say more, to save face, but Catch's look holds him like a fist. Sharon has stopped, frozen, watching. The Biker turns away and walks back to his downed bike as Catch moves on. Sharon can hardly believe all of this, following Catch again. 
ON CATCH, SHARON 
SHARON Catch!   Catch! 
It takes a moment for her voice to penetrate, then he quickly turns and sees her approaching. 
SHARON Are you all right? Your elbow's bleeding. I... 
But he is tight, nearly frozen, everything held in. 
SHARON What's wrong? 
He walks away from her, and this shakes her, and she catches up again. 
SHARON Where are you going? Catch -- you're scaring me. Please... 
But he walks on, desperate, and she gets in his way, faces him. 
SHARON Please, Catch, don't... Can't you talk to me?! 
He turns and walks off, heading for the street. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON Please.   Wait.     I... Catch! 
He has walked into traffic -- not completely unmindful of the cars, but desperate to get away. She watches this, frozen, as HORNS BLARE. He has to stop in the middle of the street to wait a moment, and he stands there, stricken. 
ON CATCH 
As the traffic moves around him and the dog -- a HORN BLARES, BRAKES SCREECH, and he thrown into a storm of... 
FLASHBACKS 
That come sharper and faster than before, bits and pieces of memory outside any order: He is driving, Annie smiles at him, headlights blind him, Annie screams, the little boy in Annie's arms grins at him, BRAKES SCREAM, Annie says something to him, calmly, but he can't hear her, the headlights blind him again and BRAKES SCREAM again, and: 
BACK TO SCENE (PRESENT) 
Catch stands there shaken and shut down. 
ON SHARON 
Watching him, shocked and frightened for him. She sees the traffic let up, and Catch crosses and walks toward home. She watches him go. 
EXT. BUSY STREET - DAY (LATER) 
As Robby and Sharon's police unit moves along with traffic. In a moment they pull over and park beside an office building. It is the same building the man entered shouting, "Catch!" Sharon watches the building's entrance. After a while... 
ROBBY Are you going to tell me why we're sitting outside this building again? 
SHARON Watching for somebody.       Tall guy. 40s. Grey-blond hair. 
(CONTINUED) 
PINDELLA I'm a psychiatrist. 
SHARON And Mr. Lambert... 
PINDELLA My relationship with Mr. Lambert is confidential. 
She's dying inside -- but covering, lying, forcing her way into this. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON He's your patient. He's your patient we... know all this. This is police business. I'm officer Sharon Pogue -- L.A.P.D. 
PINDELLA Look... I want to help Mr. Lambert but I can't tell you anything that isn't public record. 
SHARON In general. In general.   He's your patient, and he... 
PINDELLA He's not my patient. He walked away from treatment. That was... nearly a year ago. 
SHARON Why did he walk away? 
PINDELLA I can't discuss that, but if you know how to reach him, I would appreciate being able to talk to him. 
SHARON (desperate) You can help by just   telling me what's in the public   record. It'll take me half a   day to do a search. Can you tell    me? Just... 
She is unable to play this out as a "cop," her emotions coming through. Pindella sees this. She sits on the edge of a chair and takes a breath, speaks more softly. 
SHARON Can you please tell me what's in the record? 
He stares a moment, sympathetic -- and realizing... 
PINDELLA You were with him -- in the car. Your uniform threw me. Are you his friend? 
She looks at him, nods. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON More. 
He takes that in, leans back on the desk. 
PINDELLA I can tell you he was in an accident, hospitalized, referred to me as an outpatient... 
SHARON What accident? 
PINDELLA A bus... a city bus hit his vehicle. That was a couple of years ago. It was... an awful thing. His family was in the van. His wife and child. His wife's parents... 
SHARON A bus... and a van. Where?        On... the freeway? 
Something is pulling at her memory. Her vision turns inward, and she stops breathing for a moment -- remembering. She was there. And here we get a... 
FLASHBACK - CARNAGE 
A glimpse of the carnage -- what she saw, first on the scene -- with Catch lying there. All the while Pindella is speaking. 
PINDELLA (V.O.) I think so. Yes. Near Santa Monica.  On the freeway. He was severely injured but... thrown clear.  The others were trapped in the van. 
BACK TO SHARON (PRESENT) 
still in shock, looks at Pindella again. 
SHARON Survivors?   Only him?      I... don't remember. 
PINDELLA Remember? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON (quietly) Yes.   I was there. I was there. 
Pindella stares, then... 
PINDELLA His wife's mother survived, but... she was paralyzed. 
She takes a moment, absorbing this. 
PINDELLA Elanora Chu.   She's still in town, I believe. 
SHARON Does he... still see her? 
PINDELLA He used to. I don't know. (pause) I'm glad to see... he has someone else who cares about him. I know he's running from this. He left all his friends, his home, his whole life. 
SHARON He says... he doesn't remember the accident. 
PINDELLA He lost a lot of memory. I tried to help him with that. He resisted. Walked away. 
She stares. 
SHARON I think he remembers me. 
Very subdued now, she asks... 
SHARON How does he live? 
PINDELLA He received a large settlement from the city, but he...barely touches it. He was a professional musician. 
He begins to shut down, to grow cold and numb and not hear this. 
SHARON Is it because you were driving? 
He turns away, closing his eyes. 
SHARON I read the reports, and it wasn't your fault. It wasn't. Is it because you survived and they didn't? 
She puts her hand out for him again. 
SHARON Catch. Please. Hold on, and we'll go in there together... 
He does not take her hand, so she takes his and walks a few steps toward that building. 
SHARON You can talk to them. You can say goodbye or I love you or whatever... 
He pulls his hand away again, more violently, a layer of rage over his pain. 
CATCH This is wrong! It's wrong!   Why are you doing this?! 
SHARON To help you. 
CATCH I don't need your help! I don't need this. We don't need this -- we're fine... 
SHARON We're not. We're not fine, Catch. Nothing is fine -- no matter how much you pretend. 
It is as if she's fighting for his life again -- and her own. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON You pretend that nothing happened. You walk all over the city helping people, but you're dying inside. 
CATCH I'm not dying! I'm not pretending! I don't remember! I don't remember any of it. So leave me alone! What good does it do? It's gone! And I'm all right this way! Why do you have to change it? I'm all right. 
She points at the building across the street. 
SHARON Then walk in there. 
He can't even look at the place. 
SHARON Walk in there, and I'll walk in with you. Walk in there and say it's real -- what happened is real. Your family died. 
CATCH Don't talk about that!    Don't! 
SHARON (breaking down) All right -- you talk about it! You tell me your family died and I say yes, I know, I'm sorry, and you say, I loved them... and I say, what an awful thing to lose a family... 
CATCH (unravelling) Damn you, Shar. Damn you -- why won't you stop?! 
SHARON So you can have a life! 
CATCH I have a life! We could have a life. We could get up and go to work and come home to each other and never, never talk about before. We don't need to do that! Why do we need to do that?! 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON Because it happened! Because it's the truth! I'm sorry. I'm so sorry it happened, but... 
CATCH Nothing happened! If we say it, then that's the truth, that can be the truth. Say it. Nothing happened. Say it, Shar. 
SHARON Catch -- take my hand.    Please. 
CATCH Say it!    I'm asking you to say it. 
Her tears come, and she shakes her head. 
SHARON I can't. 
CATCH Why not? 
SHARON Because I want it too much. I want everything with you. I want all of you -- not just the part that isn't hiding and running away... 
CATCH Why are   you pushing so hard? Why does it   have to be your way? Why does it   have to be your truth? This is   who I am! This is the way I am! 
SHARON Not anymore. It doesn't have to be this way anymore because you're not alone -- because we're the family now. We can be the family... 
CATCH You like to push people, don't you? You just have to push and shove and make it right for you -- for you. You push everybody, Shar. You even pushed your family away, didn't you? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
He has stung her. The tears are in her throat.         She has to take a moment, but she pushes through to say quietly... 
SHARON I just... want to say... 
CATCH You already said it.   You said it all. 
SHARON When you're ready, I'll be there for you. I just want to say that. 
And she turns and walks away. He watches her go, angry, scared and sorry for what he said. He takes a few steps after her, wanting to call out and to stop her. We see him almost call to her. He is coming apart, watching her, needing her so much, but unable to call out. 
He is shaky. He takes a glance at that building, then away. He stares after Sharon -- but she's out of sight now. He steels himself, then looks across the street again at that building. 
He is desperately afraid. He stares at the building a long while. He begins to cross the street. He makes fists to keep from shaking. He walks to the entrance. 
EXT. BUILDING - DAY 
He fishes a piece of paper out of his pocket. His hand is shaking as he reads a number off the paper. 
CATCH It was minute number 17 million eight hundred ten thousand, two hundred... or so. 
He puts the paper away. 
CATCH That's the one I lost. And... when I lost that minute, I guess I tried to lose it all, all the memories -- because they hurt. I tried, but... I couldn't do it. 
We -- 
FLASHBACK - INT. VAN 
to that minute and, for once, we go in order and     play out each piece of it. We see Catch driving the van,      his wife ANNIE beside him. His son Chet is in back with      his grandparents, Elanora and her husband. The boy      is a bit whiny, pouty. 
We INTERCUT the flashback WITH -- 
CATCH 
at the grave, struggling through this. 
CATCH Chet... you weren't feeling so good, remember? It was your birthday, and you ate too much. 
We see   Annie and Catch both glance back toward Chet, and we get   present sound in this FLASHBACK scene as Catch and Annie   both say, "What's the matter? Hm? Aww." And then Annie   looks out the window and turns to Catch and -- we CUT TO   Catch at the grave, his eyes filling. 
CATCH And, Annie, you said... you said... 
In the FLASHBACK we see Annie turn to him again, and this time we hear her say, softly... 
ANNIE Slow down in the rain, all right? 
We GO TO Catch at the grave, fighting tears. 
CATCH And I don't know if I slowed down. I don't know. I hope I did, but... I didn't always listen. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. 
Back in the FLASHBACK, we see Annie reach around as Elanora hands Chet to her. Then we're BACK at the grave and INTERCUTTING so that we see Catch speaking through his tears and we also see this tender moment played out in the van. 
CATCH ... You put him on your lap, and he looked at me, and I made a face. Remember? I made you smile, Chet. (MORE) 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
CATCH (CONT'D) And then we all smiled, and it was a great minute. It was. I'm really glad... I found that minute. No matter what. 
Catch stares at the grave, in tears, as the rest of that minute now plays out, punishing him. It lasts only about three seconds: a bus out of control, headlights suddenly glaring through the windshield, Catch turning the wheel, BRAKES SCREAMING, PEOPLE SCREAMING -- and then it's over. And Catch has been battered by the memory, and is weeping, but has not looked away. He is still staring at the name of his family, and he is able to say, in a broken voice... 
CATCH I won't forget... anymore.     I love you. 
He steps forward and puts his hand on the plaque, rests it there. We STAY ON this, then in a moment, we... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. CHURCH - DAY 
The renewal of vows is over, and Sharon is standing in the aisle, nervous and not sure what to do. Guests are up and milling about, many leaving the church. "See you at the house." "See you at the party." Etc. A PHOTOGRAPHER is setting a group shot at the front of the church. Mr. and Mrs. Pogue, Larry and Kathy and the little boy... 
PHOTOGRAPHER All right. The whole family in this one. Just... 
Out of the milling crowd comes Sharon, taking a breath and braving it, walking up there, speaking quietly. 
SHARON Where do you want me? 
The Photographer turns to her, wondering. 
SHARON I'm the daughter. 
PHOTOGRAPHER Oh!   Oh, well, how about... 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
We see the family shift so that Larry and his family are on one side of the parents. Sharon follows the Photographer's gesture to stand at the other side, beside her Mother. Her Father has not looked at her. The photo is taken. Sharon now turns to her mom and dad. This is difficult, the strain is thick in the air. 
SHARON You both look so great. 
MOTHER (nervous) You, too. 
SHARON I just wanted to... 
The Father speaks to her, his voice not hard, but flat, not warm either. No smile. 
FATHER You coming to the party? 
SHARON Sure. 
He nods, then turns to greet well-wishers. Sharon is left alone by the drifting away of the family, but one old couple greets her, the older woman (Mrs. Vander) wearing her new blue dress, her HUSBAND beaming beside her. 
MRS. VANDER Sherry!    Look how nice you look. 
HUSBAND Big police officer now. 
SHARON Not so big. (to Mrs. Vander) Nice dress. 
Sharon moves off toward a side exit, trying to catch up with Larry and his family. 
EXT. SIDE OF CHURCH - DAY 
As Larry and his family exit -- and Sharon comes out of the church, calling ahead. 
SHARON What's up with you? 
LARRY JR. They won't let me watch T.V. 
SHARON Oh. Well... let's pretend this is T.V. It's a show about a party. 
They look about the room. 
SHARON (as if it's a secret) That man... is really a super hero. 
LARRY JR. Is not. 
SHARON Is too. And so is she. Look. See? Red tights under her dress... Oh-oh, that man gave her a drink with something in it. 
LARRY JR. With what? 
SHARON With stuff to make her sleep. He's a bad guy. 
The woman sips her drink, and the boy smiles, getting into it. 
LARRY She drank it. 
SHARON Watch. She'll fall down any minute. 
The boy is suddenly swooped up, lifted away by his father. Larry puts the boy down near the door. 
LARRY Hey, sport, you should go play outside. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
He turns to Sharon. 
LARRY Stay away from my family. 
Then he turns to the crowd, smiling a smile without humor, speaking loudly. 
LARRY Hey, everybody, keep it down. Somebody might call the police. 
There is some nervous laughter, people watching them now. Sharon is angry and embarrassed, keeping her voice low. 
SHARON What're you doing? 
LARRY (to crowd) Once the cops leave, we can really party. 
The crowd around them is all staring now -- as he turns back to Sharon. 
LARRY Why don't you give everybody a break -- and go home? 
In the hushed tension that follows, a GLASS falls and SHATTERS, and more people quiet down and stare. Sharon looks at her glaring brother, looks at her Mother nervously picking up the broken glass -- no support there. Angry and shaken, she turns to the door. 
She walks to the door, opens    it, starts to leave, starts to close the door behind her,    and she stops, take takes a breath, battling hard against    the old patterns of hurt and anger. She looks at that     nearly-closed door. She pushes it open and walks back    in. 
We see a surprised and angry look from Larry, a worried look from her Mother -- but Sharon is moving through the crowd, searching until she sees her Father. She heads toward him. He sees her and walks into the kitchen, avoiding her. She follows him. We see Larry and his Mother exchange an anxious look -- and then move toward the kitchen. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
Sharon enters, waits, others are leaving the kitchen, leaving her alone with her dad, but he starts to follow them. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHARON Don't walk away. Okay? 
He acts as if he just noticed her. 
FATHER What? 
She gestures toward his hearing aid. 
SHARON Is it working?     Do you need to check it? 
He absently touches the device. 
FATHER It's fine. 
SHARON Dad... 
But the kitchen door opens. We hear the party going on out there. Larry and Sharon's Mother enter, her Mother looking at her husband and back to her daughter, very frightened. Larry is raging in a near whisper. 
LARRY What the hell are you doing?! 
MOTHER Sharon, please. 
SHARON Please? Please what?! Will you stop protecting him? You were always protecting him! Don't talk to your father. Don't bother your father! 
She turns to her dad. 
SHARON I'm going to bother you for one minute, Dad. Okay? Can you handle that? 
Larry advances on her. 
LARRY Just get the hell out... 
And she turns on him in a fury that halts him. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
