ANGELS & DEMONS 
Written by 
Akiva Goldsman 
April, 2008 
INT      PAPAL APARTMENT      DAY 
CLOSE ON an ornate ring.     It's intricately carved with a seal, an image of St. Peter casting a net.     The ring is carried on a satin pillow through a darkened, regal apartment.     In the distance, BELLS ARE TOLLING   -- the slow, solemn tones that announce a death. 
A dozen men in scarlet cassocks, ROMAN CATHOLIC CARDINALS, bend down to inspect the ring, nodding in affirmation, part of an ancient ritual. 
A younger man (the CAMERLENGO) in a black cassock takes a silver knife and scratches the ring's seal twice, once horizontally and once vertically, in the sign of the cross. 
Now the ring is placed on a lead block.    The Camerlengo raises a silver mallet and SMASHES it down, shattering the ring into a thousand tiny pieces. 
As the Cardinals confirm to their satisfaction that the ring has been destroyed, the HUSHED VOICE of a NEWS REPORTER comes over the image. 
REPORTER -- the Ring of the Fisherman, which bears the official papal seal and by Vatican law must be destroyed immediately following the Pope's death. 
IN THE HALLWAY JUST OUTSIDE THE APARTMENT, 
the Cardinals file out in a solemn procession. Behind them, the Camerlengo closes and locks the doors to the apartment entrance, helped by an AIDE who stretches red silk across the doors in the form of an X. 
REPORTER (O.S.) The Pope's Chamberlain, or "Camerlengo," then seals the papal apartments --- 
At the juncture point of the doors, the Camerlengo places a glob of hot wax, then raises a seal and BURNS it into the wax with a hot SIZZLE.    TWO SWISS GUARDSMEN, traditionally attired, step in front of the doors, their eight-foot swords held in a low cross. 
REPORTER (O.S.) (cont'd) --- and Swiss Guard will remain posted outside the doors for at least nine days of mourning, a period known as tempe sede vacante, or --- 
INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA         DAY 
In St. Peter's Basilica, we move in toward an empty chair, a chair so magnificent it can only be called a throne. 
REPORTER (O.S.) --- "the time of the empty throne." 
A ring appears around the empty throne and -- 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT      CERN - DETECTOR ROOM          DAY 
-- a ring as ornate in its way as the Ring of the Fisherman, except this one is a mass of technological sophistication.    It's twenty- five feet across, covered with wires, sensors, gizmos.    It's the centerpiece of a massive laboratory the size of a football field. 
SCIENTISTS and TECHNICIANS read off checklists in a variety of languages, none of them English so far.    The place is a hive of activity and sound; cooling water WHOOSHES through pipes, the static HUM of high levels of current floats in the air. 
VITTORIA VETRA, an intense woman in her mid-thirties with the long stride of an impatient person, makes her way across the floor to PHILLIPE, the project manager, a Frenchman around fifty.    She follows him as he climbs down a scaffolding that surrounds the detector wheel and heads toward a console across the room. 
VITTORIA (in Italian, subtitled) Somebody pulled us off the grid, Phillipe. 
PHILLIPE (responds in French, also subtitled) You hit 36kV down there yesterday. The whole synchrotron only loads 18. 
VITTORIA (switching to French) And the LEAR's specked up to 42. It's all approved by the Director, you want me to call him? 
Reluctantly, Phillipe sits down at a console and starts entering commands, shaking his head. 
PHILLIPE Waste of power, what're you extracting, still ten to the seventh APs a second?    How long to produce a gram at that rate? 
VITTORIA About two billion years.     At that rate. 
He looks at her sideways, didn't like the sound of that.    He hits a few last keystrokes and a series of flashing lights reconnect what looks like a lower laboratory complex to the main grid.    She nods her thanks and starts to go. 
PHILLIPE Vittoria. (switching to soft ITALIAN) Please don't blow us all to heaven. 
And on the word "heaven," everything goes white and -- 
DISSOLVES TO: 
INT      ST.    PETER'S BASILICA          DAY 
--- a veil of thin white silk billows down over the face of the dead pontiff. TWO VATICAN FUNEREAL WORKERS pull a second veil over his face, then another over his head and hands. 
A burled cypress lid slides over the top of the coffin, which is carried out of frame and into --- 
EXT     ST.    PETER'S SQUARE           DAY 
--- St. Peter's Square, packed with THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND MOURNERS, including kings, queens, presidents, and prime ministers. 
REPORTER (O.S.) Following the elegy Mass, the body of the pontiff, borne by the traditional twelve pall bearers will be sealed in a zinc crypt deep in the Vatican Grottoes along with the bodies of twenty-five other popes. 
The PROCESSION OF CARDINALS is a ribbon of red making its way through the kaleidoscope of colors of the assembled religious dignitaries.    On the brilliant array of colors --- 
CUT TO: 
INT      CERN - DETECTOR ROOM          DAY 
--- another array of colors, this one like the best fireworks display you've ever seen.     Pulling back, we realize it's on one of the giant monitor screens in the detector room at CERN, all of which are lit up with similar arrays. 
Something has happened and there's an enormous amount of excitement in the room.    More Scientists and Technicians pour in, take their seats at consoles, CONFER excitedly.    A computerized voice speaks English over a loudspeaker: 
VOICE (O.S.) Beam on beam collisions are active. 
It repeats the message in Italian, German, French, and Chinese. 
INT      CERN TUNNEL      DAY 
Elevator doors open in a subterranean tunnel and Vittoria steps out.    A long tube, about four feet across, runs off into the distance, and as Vittoria heads off in the other direction, we see that the tunnel, and its cylinder, go on forever that way too. TWO MORE TECHNICIANS hurry down the tunnel and jump into the elevator she just vacated. 
Vittoria steps up to a security panel and places her chin in a cup.    A vertical laser sweeps across her eyeball and we -- 
CUT TO: 
As the sun comes up, Langdon and Vincenzo leave the natatorium. 
VINCENZO Yes, of course, but it couldn't be the llluminati as we knew them, they disappeared a hundred years ago. 
LANGDON Did they?     Look at the paper. 
VINCENZO I've seen it. 
LANGDON Look again. 
Vincenzo looks at it. The word llluminati is written in ornate script.    Vincenzo looks back up --- so? 
LANGDON (cont'd) Turn it upside down. 
Vincenzo does. Incredibly, the word reads exactly the same way upside down. 
LANGDON (cont'd) It's called an ambigram, the same backwards and forwards. That's common in a symbol, like a Jewish star, or yin-yang, or a swastika, but this is a word. People have searched for the llluminati ambigrammatic symbol for four centuries, modern symbologists even tried to create it, but nobody could pull it off, not even by computer. Most had concluded it was a myth. I wrote a book about it. (REALIZING) Which is why you're here, isn't it? 
VINCENZO "The Art of the llluminati," by Robert Langdon. 
CUT TO: 
INT     LANGDON'S APARTMENT          DAY 
A hand skims along a bookcase and stops at that very title, a heavy academic tome.    Langdon pulls it out and drops it on the desk in his apartment with a THUD. 
(The apartment is cluttered with esoterica, the home of a man whose taste in furnishings was very fashionable about four hundred years ago.    A single man -- no kid stuff, no cats.) 
Langdon flips the book open to an illustrated section in the middle, filled with renderings of previous attempts to create the symbol he now holds in his hand. 
LANGDON Incredible.    Either someone just figured out how to make this, or they found it.    Recently.    Which would mean the llluminati have returned. (looks at Vincenzo) An ancient brotherhood, enemies of the church, surfacing just after the death of a Pope?    I'd pull you off vacation too. 
VINCENZO It's worse than just that.    Four cardinals were kidnapped from their quarters inside the Vatican some time between three and five a.m. this morning. Shortly afterward, the Office of the Swiss Guard received that document, along with the threat that the Cardinals will be publicly executed, one per hour, starting at seven p.m. tonight, in Rome. 
LANGDON (mind racing ahead) Conclave? 
VINCENZO Was to begin today.    We have postponed its start for a few hours, a story of illness, there are no suspicions. Yet. 
LANGDON What do you want from me? 
VINCENZO The perpetrators of this heinous act sent that -- ambigram, you say? -- as a provocation, a taunt.     But it may also be their undoing.     If you can help us learn their identity, perhaps we can stop them. 
LANGDON Why me? 
VINCENZO Your expertise.    Your erudition. And your involvement with recent Church -- shall we say "mysteries?" 
LANGDON I wasn't under the impression that episode had endeared me to the Vatican. 
VINCENZO Oh, it didn't.     But it made you -- what is the word? (Italian pronunciation) Formidable.     Formidable.    A plane is standing by twenty minutes from here. Will you come with me? 
Langdon doesn't move, just stares at the ambigram, still amazed. 
VINCENZO (cont'd) Professor Langdon, you have spent ten years of your academic life searching for the very symbol you now hold in your hand.     And the madman who created it, or who knows the secrets of its origin-- that person is in Rome. (checks his watch) How much longer must we pretend you have not already decided to come? 
CUT TO: 
EXT     AIRPORT       DAY 
A small private plane SCREAMS into the sky. 
EXT     ROME      DAY 
We soar over Rome, the Eternal City. A helicopter WHOOSHES into frame below us. 
INT      HELICOPTER         DAY 
The papal helicopter is plush inside, and nearly silent. A very pricey piece of equipment.    Vincenzo stares out the window. 
VINCENZO If the llluminati have returned and are in Rome, we will hunt them down and kill them. 
Langdon, seated across from him, stifles a laugh. 
LANGDON Spoken like a Roman Catholic. 
Vincenzo looks at him sharply. 
LANGDON (cont'd) The llluminati didn't become violent anti-Papists until the 17th century. Initially, they were physicists, mathematicians, astronomers.      Their name means "the Enlightened Ones." In the 1500s, they started meeting secretly to share their concerns about the church's inaccurate teachings. They were dedicated to the quest for scientific truth.     And for that, the church -- to use your words -- hunted them down and killed them.      Drove them underground. 
Langdon turns and looks out the front window of the helicopter as, up ahead, the marble facade of St. Peter's Basilica blazes like fire in the afternoon sun. 
LANGDON (cont'd) Into a secret society. 
EXT     ST.   PETER'S SQUARE         DAY 
Pulling away from the helicopter, we see a coat of arms emblazoned on its side -- two skeleton keys crossing a shield and papal crown. The helicopter SWOOPS over St. Peter's Square, filled with more tourists than usual, due to the impending start of Conclave. 
We drift toward a structure on the far side of the Square, closer to its huge, ornate windows.    As we approach, large swaths of black drop down, draping over the windows, closing off our view. 
INT      SISTINE CHAPEL        DAY 
Inside, WORKERS continue to drape large bolts of black velvet over the windows, sealing this room off from outside.    Pulling back, we realize it's not just any room --- 
--- it's the Sistine Chapel.   As the last window is blackened, the room is bathed in a profound darkness lit only by candles. 
ONE HUNDRED SIXTY-ONE MEN in red robes are gathered inside the Chapel, the College of Cardinals.    They talk in a polyglot of languages, milling about the place, conferring, catching up on old friendships. 
Cardinal Mortati, the Dean of the College who led the Pope's elegy mass, is the type of man one crosses a room to see, not the other way around. 
He chats in Italian with two other Cardinals, until a black- cassocked aide (FATHER SIMEON) outside the open doors of the Chapel catches his eye.    Mortati excuses himself, steps through the open doorway, and into --- 
INT      SALON      DAY 
-- the salon just outside the Chapel.    Father Simeon is an unctuous man in his fifties with eyes that are always looking for whoever's behind you.    (They speak in Italian, subtitled.) 
VITTORIA (CONTINUING) -- canister was stolen from our lab around midnight last night.     The intruder killed my research partner, Leonardo Bentivoglio, and mutilated him in order to bypass security. 
They look at her, don't quite see the connection. 
VITTORIA (cont'd) We use retinal scanners. (they still don't get it) They cut out his eyes. 
They cringe. 
VITTORIA (cont'd) That canister contains an extremely combustible substance called antimatter.    We need to locate it immediately or evacuate Vatican City. 
ROCHER I'm quite familiar with incendiaries, Ms. Vetra.    I haven't heard of antimatter. 
VITTORIA It's new, energy research technology. It uses a reverse polarity vacuum to filter out anti-matter positrons generated in particle accelerations in the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. 
They look at her blankly.    She points at the screen, 
VITTORIA (cont'd) The anti-matter is suspended, there, in an airtight nanocomposite shell with electromagnets at each end. But if it were to fall out of suspension and come into contact with matter -- say, the bottom of the canister -- the two opposing forces will annihilate one another. Violently. 
ROCHER And what might cause it to fall out of suspension? 
VITTORIA The battery going dead.     Which it will. (looks at the screen) In six hours and eleven minutes. 
Silence for a moment. 
VITTORIA (cont'd) Where is that camera?   Number eighty- six? 
OLIVETTI It's wireless.     It too was stolen. That could be anywhere inside the Vatican walls. 
VITTORIA You've got to find it. 
ROCHER We're a bit preoccupied with four missing cardinals at the moment. 
VITTORIA You don't understand.    An annihilation is a cataclysmic event. It would be a blinding explosion, equivalent to about five megatons. The blast radius alone would be -- 
Softly, Langdon speaks up from behind her. 
LANGDON "Vatican City will be consumed by light." 
A few voices fall still.   They turn and look at him. 
ROCHER Those are the exact words the kidnapper used. 
INT     ROCHER'S OFFICE       DAY 
A few moments later, they're crowded around the communications console at Rocher's desk, where a dimly-lit video recording is playing back on a computer screen.    (The office is behind a glass wall to one side of the headquarters.) 
The images on the recording are of FOUR OLDER MEN, some in their sixties, the others in their seventies, filmed in dim light behind bars in a dank, dungeon-like space. 
A lightly accented VOICE speaks from behind the camera. 
VOICE (O.S.) We will destroy your four pillars... brand your preferiti and sacrifice them on the altars of science... and then bring your church down upon you. Vatican City will be consumed by light. 
LANGDON It's an ancient llluminati threat. (Rocher pauses the recording) The destruction of Vatican City through light.     The four pillars -- he probably means the kidnapped cardinals.     You didn't mention they were the preferiti. (to Vittoria) The favorites to be chosen as the new Pope.     Play it again. 
VOICE (O.S.) We will destroy your four pillars... brand your preferiti and sacrifice them on the altars of science... 
LANGDON Stop it there. 
Rocher does 
LANGDON (cont'd) "Brand" them, another llluminati legend, this one says there are a set of five brands, each one an ambigram. (MORE) 
LANGDON (cont'd) The first four are the fundamental elements of science -- earth, air, fire, water.    The fifth -- is a mystery.    Maybe it's this. 
He pulls the "llluminati" ambigram from his pocket. 
ROCHER He said they'd be killed publicly. In churches. 
LANGDON (nods, not surprised) Revenge for La Purga. 
ROCHER La Purga? 
LANGDON Don't you guys read your own history? 1668.     The church kidnapped four llluminati scientists and branded their chests with the symbol of the cross.     To "purge their sins." Murdered them and left their bodies in the street as a warning to others to stop questioning church rulings on scientific matters.     It was after La Purga that a darker, more violent llluminati emerged.     This sounds like retribution. (to Rocher) Is there any more? 
Rocher hits play again. 
VOICE (O.S.) .... and then bring your church down upon you.    Vatican City will be consumed by light... 
While listening this time, Langdon notices a darkened video monitor, inlaid at an angle on Rocher's desk.    It faces away from the outer office, and instead of an on/off switch, there is an oddly-shaped keyhole. 
VOICE (O.S.) (cont'd) A shining star at the end of the Path of Illumination. 
Langdon looks up sharply. 
LANGDON The Path of Illumination? 
Rocher stops the video. 
LANGDON (cont'd) I need to get into the Vatican Archives. 
Rocher shakes his head, looks at Olivetti harshly, is embarrassed. 
OLIVETTI Professor, this is not the appropriate moment to- 
ROCHER Your petition has been denied seven times, Mr. Langdon. 
LANGDON This has nothing to do with that, (FAST) The Path of Illumination is an ancient trail through Rome that leads to the Church of the Illumination, a secret place where llluminati members could meet in safety.    If I can find the Segno, the sign that marks the start of the Path, I'm willing to bet the four churches along it are where he intends to murder your cardinals. If we can get to one of them before he does, we can stop it.    But to find the start of the path, I need to get into the Archives. 
ROCHER Even if I wanted to help you, access is only by written decree of the curator and the Board of Vatican Librarians. 
LANGDON Or by papal mandate. 
ROCHER Yes.    But as you've no doubt heard, the Holy Father is- 
Olivetti nods to her, come on along. They walk again, holds a hand out to Langdon. 
VITTORIA (cont'd) Vittoria Vetra. Are you really a symbologist, or was he mocking you? 
LANGDON Both.    You're a physicist? 
VITTORIA (NODS) Bio-entanglement physics. Interconnectivity of life systems. 
LANGDON Okay. 
VITTORIA What are we looking for in the archives? 
LANGDON A little book written by Galileo. 
VITTORIA Galileo was llluminati? 
LANGDON And a devout Catholic.     He thought science and religion weren't enemies, but two different languages telling the same story.     He wanted like minds to be able to find the Church of Illumination, but he couldn't exactly advertise its location, so he created a coded path.     An unknown llluminati master sculpted four statues, each a tribute to one of the four fundamental elements -- earth, air, fire, water -- and put them out in public, in churches throughout Rome.     Each statue held a clue, pointing to the next. And at the end of the trail was the Church of Illumination. 
Vicenzo, leading them, turns up Via Sentinel and starts up the hill toward the Archives. They follow, quickly. 
OLIVETTI What makes you think he's going to murder the cardinals in the churches? 
LANGDON The llluminati called those four churches by a special name -- L'Altare di scienza.    The altars of science. 
VITTORIA (making the CONNECTION) "Sacrifice them on the altars of science," he said. 
Langdon stops in his tracks. 
LANGDON Oh.   Oh, wow. 
He's staring up at the impressive facade of the Vatican Archives. He takes a deep breath, then steps forward to enter.    But Vincenzo doesn't follow.    Langdon looks at him. 
LANGDON (cont'd) We go in alone? 
OLIVETTI Vatican Police aren't allowed access to the archives, only Swiss Guard. Lt. Chartrand will meet you inside. I'll be here when you're done. 
Langdon turns back to the Archives with a look of deep contentment -- he's wanted in here for a long, long time. 
And steps through the double doors. 
CUT TO: 
INT     APOSTOLIC PALACE        DAY 
The Camerlengo walks briskly through the hallways of the Apostolic Palace, deep in thought.    He reaches the top of the Royal Staircase, and can hear the RUMBLING of activity in the Sistine Chapel below. 
Looking down the stairs, he sees the doorway open, and the gathering of cardinals inside.    As he reaches the base of the stairs, Cardinal Mortati, who has been summoned, steps outside to meet him, flanked by his aide, Father Simeon. 
Vincenzo, leading them, turns up Via Sentinel and starts up the hill toward the Archives.    They follow, quickly. 
They speak in English, their common language. 
CAMERLENGO You've been informed of the new situation? 
MORTATI (NODS) May God's mercy be upon us. 
CAMERLENGO And the other cardinals? 
MORTATI Await your word. 
The Camerlengo thinks, feels the weight of this decision on his young shoulders. 
CAMERLENGO May I ask your guidance, Padre? 
MORTATI My belief is we should proceed with the sealing of conclave. 
CAMERLENGO At this hour?        That would be highly unorthodox. 
MORTATI And yet within church law.    It's in my power, I've been chosen Great Elector. 
CAMERLENGO The cruelest honor in Christendom. 
MORTATI The only ambitions I have are for my church.    St. Peter's church, which is under attack at its most vulnerable moment.    This is not a coincidence. Is it possible our enemies hope to distract us from our sacred task? 
CAMERLENGO The church will not fall in a day. We may be wise to consider evacuation. 
MORTATI That is exactly what they want, publicity and panic.    We must not give them oxygen for the media fire. 
CAMERLENGO What of the safety of the cardinals? 
MORTATI Surely there is not an elector present who values his physical being more than the unbroken leadership of the Holy See. 
CAMERLENGO And the people in St. Peter's Square? 
MORTATI They care as deeply about their church as we do.    Their faith will sustain them. 
CAMERLENGO But if their faith does not protect them from an explosion? 
MORTATI We're all bound for heaven eventually, are we not? 
CAMERLENGO Spoken like one who has enjoyed the blessings of a long and full life. 
Mortati bristles at the thinly-veiled insult. 
MORTATI Signore, do not confuse the power of the office you temporarily hold with your true place here in the Vatican. You were a favorite of His Holiness, but His Holiness is with his Father now. 
CAMERLENGO Mea culpa. 
Satisfied, Mortati looks back over his shoulder, at the anxious faces in the Chapel.    Then turns back to the Camerlengo. 
MORTATI Seal the doors. 
With a heavy THUD, the huge doors close and bolts SLAM into place. An ancient key GRINDS in an ornate lock, two heavy chains RATTLE into place, FOUR SWISS GUARD take position in front of the doors and at that very moment -- 
He stops.   They study the page, 
LANGDON (cont'd) Latin.    Can you --- ? 
VITTORIA A bit. 
She reaches for the book, to pull it towards her, but Langdon SLAPS her hand.    He holds up his own, glove 
LANGDON Finger acids. 
She rolls her eyes and leans in, studying the page.     There are sketches on the page as well. 
VITTORIA (READING) Movement of the planets... elliptical orbits... heliocentricity... 
Langdon's nervous. This doesn't sound right. Vittoria turns the page, turns it back. 
VITTORIA (cont'd) I'm sorry, I don't think there's anything that could be interpreted as a- 
LANGDON Do that again. 
She turns the page, then turns it back.    Noticing something in the deep crevice of the margin as the page moves, Langdon grabs a magnifying glass on the end of a long pole and swings it over. 
There, in the print gutter, what looked like a smudge is revealed under the magnifier to be -- 
LANGDON (cont'd) A line of text.    In English. 
(CONT'D) 
VITTORIA English?    Why English? 
LANGDON No one spoke it at the Vatican.    It was considered polluted.    Too free- thinking, the language of radicals like Shakespeare and Chaucer. 
He rotates the book. 
LANGDON (cont'd) Another line. 
He keeps rotating the book, finds two more tiny lines written at the very edges, barely visible to the naked eye. 
LANGDON (cont'd) "The path of light is laid, the sacred test..."    I need a pen, we have to transcribe this. 
VITTORIA Sorry, Professor.    No time. 
Before Langdon can do anything to stop her, she RIPS the page from the text and shoves it in her pocket. 
Langdon's jaw drops.    He shoots a look over his shoulder at Lt. Chartrand, but the man's back is turned. 
LANGDON Ah, what the hell. 
He SNAPS the magnifying glass off the end of its pole. 
CUT TO: 
EXT    VATICAN ARCHIVES DAY 
The doors SLAM on a Vatican police car and the tires SQUEAL as Olivetti hits the gas. 
INT     CAR DAY 
Olivetti is behind the wheel, Vittoria's in front, Langdon leans in from the back seat. 
OLIVETTI Twenty minutes till eight, where are we headed? 
LANGDON I'll know in a minute, give me the paper. 
Vittoria pulls the page from the Diagramma out of her pocket and hands it to Langdon.    He pulls the magnifier from his coat and studies the thin paper, turning it in his hands. 
LANGDON (cont'd) (READING) From Santi's earthly tomb with demon's hole... 
OLIVETTI Where did you get that paper?! 
LANGDON 'Cross Rome the mystic elements unfold. 
VITTORIA We borrowed it. 
LANGDON The path of light is laid, the sacred test... 
OLIVETTI Are you insane?! 
LANGDON Let angels guide you on your earthly quest. 
OLIVETTI You removed a document from the Vatican Archives?! 
LANGDON Huh?    Oh, um -- well, she moved so fast.·. 
VITTORIA The first marker sounds like it's at Santi's tomb. 
LANGDON (MUSING) Sounds like. 
VITTORIA But who is Santi? 
LANGDON Raphael. 
VITTORIA Raphael?     The sculptor? 
LANGDON Santi was his last name. 
VITTORIA So the path starts at Raphael's tomb! 
LANGDON (not entirely CONVINCED) Yeah. 
OLIVETTI Raphael is buried at the Pantheon. 
VITTORIA Is the Pantheon even a church? 
LANGDON Seven minutes to eight. 
VITTORIA (of the watch) Was that Mickey Mouse? 
LANGDON Long story. 
VITTORIA Make it short. 
LANGDON (THINKS) Can't be done. 
And with that they step through the entrance and into -- 
INT     PANTHEON       DAY 
-- the Pantheon, a massive, circular room with a 141-foot unsupported span even larger than the cupola of St. Peter's. There are a DOZEN TOURISTS scattered around, and a TOUR GROUP on one side hearing a lecture from a MUSEUM DOCENT. 
Langdon looks up at the hole in the ceiling through which a bright shaft of light is shining. 
LANGDON The oculus. That could be the "demon's hole" in the poem. 
Looking around, Vittoria sees several sarcophagi scattered around the room, all pointing obliquely in a certain direction. As they move stealthily through the crowd, they speak in low tones: 
VITTORIA Why are the tombs at an angle? 
LANGDON To face east.          Sun worship. 
VITTORIA But this is a Christian church. 
LANGDON (SHRUGS) New religions often adopt existing holidays to make conversion less shocking. December 25th was the pagan holiday of the Unconquered Sun. Made it a handy choice for Christ's birthday. 
VITTORIA You're saying Christianity is repackaged sun worship? 
LANGDON Where do you think halos came from? Not just sun worship though, the Catholics borrowed Communion from the Aztecs, canonization from Euphemerus, the cruciform from the Egyptians --- 
VITTORIA No wonder they don't like you around here. 
LANGDON Just trying to keep the conversation lively. (POINTS) Check the recesses.    I'll go left. See you in a hundred eighty degrees. 
He starts to the left, she goes to the right, walking in the shadowy recesses behind the pillars at the edges of the room. 
Langdon walks slowly, checking out faces.       Tourists.   Couples. Teenagers.    More tourists. 
Around every column, there are shadows, and in those shadows -- 
--- nothing. 
He looks at his watch.    Five minutes to eight.       And then -- 
--- a SHRIEK from the other side of the room.      He whirls, sees Vittoria backing away from something. 
LANGDON (cont'd) Vittoria! 
He races across the room, reaches her at the far side. Her face is ashen.    She's pointing at something, aghast. 
VITTORIA Raphael's tomb!    But -- 
Langdon rushes forward to the crypt. There doesn't seem to be anything out of the ordinary, except --- 
VITTORIA (cont'd) --- it's the wrong one! 
LANGDON What are you talking about?! 
He leans down, looks at the plaque on it. 
VITTORIA He was moved here, in 1759. A century after Diagramma was published! 
LANGDON That's not possible, the poem said- 
VITTORIA Where was he originally buried? 
LANGDON I don't know... Urbino, I think... (thinking like crazy) Santi's earthly tomb... what else could it possibly... Santi 's tomb... 
His eyes flit around the room, from one ornate sarcophagus to another.    And then it hits him: 
LANGDON (cont'd) Damn it!    "Santi's tomb" must mean one of the chapels he built!    He's not buried in it, he designed it! Rich people commissioned burial chapels in churches all over Rome in his day! (looks up) And the "demon's hole," it isn't the oculus, it's an undercroft, a crypt, common sixteenth century term! 
At that very moment, the tour group is passing them, and the elderly Docent asks his group the perfunctory wrap-up: 
DOCENT Does anyone have any questions? 
Langdon busts in on the group. 
LANGDON Yes!    Did Raphael Santi ever design a chapel with an ossuary annex and angel figure commissioned by the Catholic Church?! 
The Docent blinks.    Wasn't expecting quite so esoteric a question. 
LANGDON (cont'd) Well?! 
DOCENT I'm sorry, I... I can only think of one. 
Langdon suppresses the urge to grab him by the lapels and shake it out of him. 
LANGDON One'll do. 
CUT TO: 
EXT    PANTHEON DAY 
A clock in the square outside the Pantheon says 7:56.    Langdon and Vittoria face Rocher, Olivetti, and half a dozen Swiss Guard. 
ROCHER Wrong?   What do you mean, wrong?! 
LANGDON (FAST) The first altar of science is the Chigi Chapel, in the church of Santa Maria del Popolo, about a mile from here!     It used to be called Capella della Terra, Chapel of the Earth. Earth, the first element!     This is it, I'm certain. 
LANGDON Pyramids.      In a Catholic church. This is it. 
Behind them, the plastic rustles, as if drawn by a wind, and as Langdon turns, he hears, faintly, a DOOR CLOSING far away. 
He turns back, eyes drawn to the floor.    There is a large oval medallion there, with a skeleton carved into it.    It's slightly off center, raised.    As if it's been opened recently, and hurriedly replaced. 
LANGDON (cont'd) The demon's hole. 
IN THE DEMON'S HOLE, 
we're looking up now as the medallion GRINDS to the side.     Faces peer down at us -- Langdon, Vittoria, Olivetti, and Vincenzo. They recoil from a stench. 
UP TOP, 
Langdon squints, trying to see inside. 
LANGDON Anybody got a flashlight? 
Vincenzo hands him one.    Langdon shines it down into the crypt. There are shapes, but thirty feet down and hard to make out. 
There's one in particular, in the darkness, seems too short to be a person, but it's moving slightly. 
OLIVETTI Can you tell what it is? 
LANGDON Not from up here. 
He reaches down, rattles the ladder that leans against the wall of the crypt.    Takes a deep breath, looks at the others. 
LANGDON (cont'd) Those guns.          Keep 'em handy? 
IN THE DEMON'S HOLE, 
Langdon reaches the bottom, still shining the light at the figure in the distance.    It's brighter here, he can see it's flesh- colored, but still indistinct.    He takes a step toward it -- 
-- and something CRUNCHES under his feet. 
He shines the light down.    He's standing on a pile of human skulls 
OLIVETTI (calling down) You okay? 
LANGDON More or less. 
He takes two more steps, closer to the swaying figure on the other side of the crypt.    He can now clearly see a man's naked back. 
LANGDON (cont'd) He's here!    I think he's -- sitting. (moves closer) Hello? (closer still) Are you all right? 
It's a human figure.     As Langdon draws close, he sees the source of the movement --- rats, gnawing at the dead body. 
They scurry away as Langdon comes around the front, and we pull back to see what he sees. 
It's Cardinal Lamasse. 
He's been buried in the earthen floor of the crypt up to his waist his jaw broken, his mouth crammed full of dirt. 
But that's not the worst of it.    Langdon GAGS as he sees the blackened word that has been branded into the red flesh of the Cardinal's chest.    It's an ambigram, like we've seen before, but this time it says -- 
EARTH. 
CUT TO: 
INT     SISTINE CHAPEL      DAY 
Cardinal Mortati sits regally at the main altar at the front of the Sistine Chapel as the electors, one by one, cast their votes in the traditional manner. 
An AFRICAN CARDINAL at the front of the line kneels before him. 
AFRICAN CARDINAL (SUBTITLED) I call as my witness Christ the Lord, who will be my judge that my vote is given to the one who before God I think should be elected. 
The African Cardinal stands, holds his ballot over his head, t lowers the ballot to the altar, where a plate sits atop a large chalice. 
He places the ballot on the plate, then picks up the plate and uses it to drop the ballot in the chalice.    He then replaces the plate over the chalice, bows to the cross, and heads for his seat. 
The next cardinal steps up to repeat the process. 
A SHORT TIME LATER, A DISSOLVE, 
and the line is gone.    Mortati holds the chalice with all the votes.    He shakes it, chooses one--- 
MORTATI Eligo in summum pontificem -- 
-- and reads an unfamiliar name. 
He makes a note in a ledger, then raises a threaded needle and pierces the ballot through the word "Eligo," sliding the ballot on the thread. 
A SHORT TIME LATER,   ANOTHER DISSOLVE, 
and there are a hundred and sixty-one ballots on the thread, Mortati looks up from his ledger and speaks to the room. 
MORTATI The first ballot has failed. 
He takes He thread carrying all the ballots and ties the ends together to create a ring. 
He lays the ring of ballots on a silver tray.     Dusts the tray heavily with a yellowish powder. 
A DOOR OPENS 
on a small incinerator. The ring of ballots is hurled inside and bursts immediately into flame. 
A dark, brackish smoke billows up from the burning ballots, and we follow the smoke up, up, into the chimney -- 
EXT     ST.   PETER'S SQUARE         DUSK 
--- and to the roof of the Sistine Chapel, where the black iUPke puffs out into the early evening sky. 
A compass.    He catches it, holds it steady, and walks toward the edge of the roof as the compass needle swivels and settles on SW. 
Langdon looks up, following the line of the needle, up over the rooftops of Rome, to a massive structure in the distance, exactly in line with the compass needle. 
A huge dome on the horizon blots out the setting sun. 
ST.   PETER'S BASILICA. 
CUT TO: 
INT      CAR      NIGHT 
CLOSE ON a map of Rome, unfolded in the back seat of a racing car and spread out over Langdon and Vittoria's laps.    Langdon has a pen and is drawing a line on the map, through -- 
LANGDON The black rectangles with crosses are churches, and none of them intersect the line until it comes to an end, right in the middle of St. Peter's Square. 
Night has fallen, and the four Alfa Romeos are now speeding across Rome.    No sirens, but lots of speed.    Olivetti drives, Rocher is in the passenger seat. 
ROCHER Your theory doesn't hold up, Professor.    Michelangelo designed St. Peter's, not Bernini. 
LANGDON The Basilica is Michelangelo, but the square is Bernini.    The second marker must be a statue in the square. 
VITTORIA It's ten minutes till nine!   Can we go any faster?! 
ROCHER Not unless we want the full attention of the world press. 
She looks down, to two television screens mounted into the backs of the front seats.    Both are tuned to coverage of the papal selection process, REPORTERS doing stand-ups from the middle of crowded St. Peter's Square. 
We move in on one of the images, then into the image, coming out - 
CUT TO: 
EXT     ST.   PETER'S SQUARE     NIGHT 
--- on a television monitor in St. Peter's Square. The Reporter, a JAPANESE WOMAN, is giving a stand-up report on the progress so far, gesturing to the chimney over the Sistine Chapel. 
The crowd has grown, now four thousand, maybe five. FLASHBULBS POP.    A few PROTESTERS CHANT. 
Almost silently, behind them all, half a dozen black Alfa Romeos race in, too fast, and come to an abrupt halt. 
IN ROCHER'S CAR, 
they all get out, trying to avoid causing a panic. 
Langdon walks into the square, eyes focused on an object in the middle. 
LANGDON Another obelisk.    We're close. 
He looks up, at row after row of statues that ring the square from atop the oval colonnades. 
SHARPSHOOTERS scurry among the statuary, setting themselves up. 
In the crowd, Rocher MUTTERS into his radio and to undercover SWISS GUARD scattered throughout.    The crowd is unaware of them. 
Langdon keeps walking, turning in circles, looking above him, to the tops of the colonnades that border the square. 
VITTORIA There must be a hundred statues up there, which one is it? 
LANGDON How in God's name would anyone make a sculpture about air? 
And indeed there are.    Langdon looks at his watch.      Two minutes to nine. 
And then he freezes.    Staring down, not up. 
He takes a step back. There is a fresco carved into the square beneath his feet, or more accurately -- 
LANGDON (cont'd) Bas relief! 
He takes a step back, to look at the carving, as does Vittoria. 
LANGDON (cont'd) The other half of sculpture is bas relief. (to Vittoria) Look for more!     Something having to do with air! 
They move through the crowd, pushing people aside, causing a bit of a ruckus as they try to uncover the elaborate carvings in the stone of the square. 
(IF WE ARE EAGLE-EYED, at this point we will see TWO ROBED MEN, one helping the other, who carries a cross, as they pass through the crowd behind Langdon.) 
Remembering something, Langdon rushes forward, toward the center of the square, uncharacteristically brusque with the crowd, shoving his way through now. 
He draws close to one carving in particular, slows to a stop, and stares down at it, eyes wide. 
It's a carving of an angel's face, cheeks billowing outward as it blows a gust of wind, symbolized by five vertical streaks.    Its title is --- 
LANGDON (cont'd) "West Ponente."    The West Wind.    An angel's face and five streaks.   Air! 
So this is it, but now what?    They look around frantically, scanning the crowd.    So does Rocher, so does Olivetti.    The BELLS of St. Peter's start to TOLL the hour. 
NEARBY, 
a LITTLE GIRL dances with a doll.      Happily unaware of what's going on. 
ELSEWHERE, 
some PROTESTERS tangle.      Some believe one thing, others don't. 
Swiss Guard and Vatican Police race in to break it up. But there's no bloodshed. 
CLOSE TO THAT, 
a ROBED MAN carrying a small wooden cross falls to the ground. Somebody near him SCREAMS. 
NEARBY, 
the Little Girl is jostled by a HOMELESS MAN, drops her doll. 
The Camerlengo just stares at him, a power struggle. Which he is going to lose. 
CAMERLENGO As you say. (turns away) Commander Rocher, the search for the device? 
ROCHER We've turned the power off and on to about twenty percent of Vatican City. Nothing on the video yet. 
CAMERLENGO Mr. Langdon, you've been right so far, if belatedly, about the Path. It's now nine fifteen, how quickly can you find the next church? 
Langdon refers to a map spread out on the desk. 
LANGDON The line of the breath in the carving points due east, directly away from Vatican City, but there are five lines, so there's room for error. 
While he talks, an AIDE in a business suit is ushered quietly in the door by a Swiss Guardsman.    He's carrying a satchel. Vittoria recognizes him, and he goes to her. 
LANGDON (cont'd) There are about twenty churches that intersect it.    None of their names invoke "fire," but there must be a Bernini sculpture inside one of them that does.    I'm going to need to get back into the Archives to find it. 
CAMERLENGO (to Olivetti) Escort him. 
Langdon looks to Vittoria -- you coming? She looks up from a table, where she's opened the satchel brought in by the Aide. She holds two leather-bound books in her hand. 
VITTORIA The journals I asked for.    I'd like to stay here and study them.    If Leonardo told anyone else about our project, that could be the killer. 
CAMERLENGO Fine. 
The group starts to break up, half of them headed for the doors. As Langdon rolls up the map on the desk, the Camerlengo notices his black clothes for the first time. 
CAMERLENGO (cont'd) Professor, would it surprise you to find those clothes suit you? 
Langdon manages a sliver of a smile, starting to like this guy. 
LANGDON It would surprise the hell out of me. 
CUT TO: 
EXT     ST.   PETER'S SQUARE     NIGHT 
St. Peter's has been cleared out, the throng moved to barricades at its edges so that the crime scene can be properly investigated. Flashbulbs POP everywhere. 
The row of TV REPORTERS is nearly shoulder to shoulder, and we move along them --- first up is an ITALIAN REPORTER: 
ITALIAN REPORTER (SUBTITLED) -- a statement just released by the Vatican expressing sympathy for the family of the mugging victim, a tourist from Dusseldorf -- 
Still moving, we pass a CHINESE REPORTER. 
CHINESE REPORTER (SUBTITLED) --- who is now confirmed dead. Vatican Police have a suspect in custody, and after photographing the crime scene --- 
Still moving,   a FRENCH REPORTER. 
FRENCH REPORTER (SUBTITLED) --- will allow the crowds of faithful back into St. Peter's Square, where security will be doubled. 
Still moving, a BBC REPORTER,    in English. 
BBC REPORTER Sadly, the Vatican spokesman points out, where crowds go -- 
And finally, an AMERICAN. 
AMERICAN REPORTER --- so often follows crime. We're trying now to get the name of the tourist who was- wait a- 
The American Reporter looks confused, somebody's talking to her in her earpiece. 
AMERICAN REPORTER (cont'd) We're getting word now of -- smoke, smoke from the Sistine Chapel chimney, apparently there's been another vote I 
And almost as one, the row of TV cameras all swing away from the crime scene in the square and up, to the Sistine Chapel chimney, where there is indeed a thick cloud -- 
--- of black smoke.    Still no new pope, and the subject is effectively changed. 
CUT TO: 
INT     VATICAN ARCHIVES      NIGHT 
Langdon and Lt. Chartrand, the young Swiss Guardsman, walk quickly down the row of hermetically sealed vaults in the Vatican Archives. 
Langdon's leading, looking at the names on the outsides of each of the individual vaults. 
CHARTRAND What are you looking for this time? 
LANGDON Assets. 
CHARTRAND I beg your pardon? 
LANGDON Artwork is valuable, and corporations tend to keep track of their holdings. 
CHARTRAND The Catholic Church is not a corporation, Signore, it is a beacon, a source of inspiration for one billion lost and frightened souls. 
LANGDON Sure sure, I get that. 
He stops, pointing up at a sign on the end of one of the vaults -- BANCO VATICANO. 
LANGDON (cont'd) But it's also a bank. 
He takes one last breath of oxygen-rich air, pushes through the revolving door -- 
INT     VAULT     NIGHT 
--- and comes through the other side, eyes scanning the place.    A moment later, Chartrand follows him through the door.     Langdon looks at him --- you're coming in too? 
CHARTRAND Cfmmander Olivetti said I was not to leave your side this time. 
LANGDON (a mutter) Wasn't me, it was her, 
MOVING FAST ALONG THE LEATHER-BOUND VOLUMES, Langdon searches the place as fast as he can. 
BAM! 
More words pop out at us -- "His great golden spear... filled with fire..." 
LANGDON (cont'd) Fire. 
Still more -- "woman inflamed by passion's fire..." 
And now a close-up of her enraptured face. 
LANGDON Fire. 
And now three things happen in quick succession: 
-- Langdon SLAMS the ledger shut, 
-- the ribbons on the air vent fall as the oxygen into the vault is cut off, and 
-- one by one, ALL THE LIGHTS IN THE ARCHIVES GO OUT. 
Total silence for a moment. 
Langdon and Chartrand look at each other in the darkness. 
LANGDON (cont'd) The door -- ? 
CHARTRAND Electronic. 
LANGDON That's too bad. 
CUT TO: 
INT     ST.   PETER'S BASILICA          NIGHT 
The Camerlengo, flanked by two Swiss Guardsmen, escorts Vittoria rapidly across the deserted floor of St. Peter's Basilica. 
VITTORIA Where are we going? 
CAMERLENGO To see my father. 
VITTORIA I don't understand. 
They circle past a pillar and she sees an orange glow up ahead, seeming to emanate from beneath the floor in the center of the basilica. 
CAMERLENGO I was orphaned when I was nine years old.    A bombing in Madrid -- Basque separatists protesting the visit of a Catholic archbishop. 
As they draw closer, she sees it's the entrance to a sumptuous underground chamber, surrounded by scores of glowing oil lamps. 
CAMERLENGO (cont'd) The archbishop felt responsible, and he adopted me the following day.    I was raised by him, and by the church. 
The Camerlengo starts down a winding stairway, rimmed by the lamps, 
ON THE STAIRCASE, 
they descend, lit by the spectral glow of the oil lamps. 
CAMERLENGO (cont'd) He was the wisest man I ever met, even with my youthful foolishness. He always saw the middle way.    I wanted to be ordained, but I also refused to be excused from military service. So he suggested I fly rescue missions, helicopters bringing the wounded to hospital. 
He stops at the bottom of the stairs and looks up at her. 
CAMERLENGO (cont'd) He was a great man. 
VITTORIA He died? 
CAMERLENGO (NODS) Fourteen days ago. 
Vittoria, stunned, realizes who he's talking about. 
CUT TO: 
INT     VATICAN ARCHIVES       NIGHT 
KA-CHUNG! Emergency lights switch on in the Vatican Archives, casting a weird, reddish glow over everything. 
But the ribbons at the oxygen panel remain limp. 
Below, Langdon pushes, again and again, on the deadened exit button, trying to activate the doors.    Nothing doing. 
He's weak, weaving, barely on his feet. 
Chartrand's already slumped against a wall, his radio in hand, keying it over and over again, but getting only static. 
LANGDON Anything? 
Chartrand gestures weakly around the room. 
CHARTRAND Walls... lead-lined... no signal. 
Langdon blinks, his vision becoming seriously impaired. He holds his eyes closed for a moment, opens them, it's not much better. 
Langdon looks at the glass wall on the far side of the vault. Then at the row of bookcases.    Gets an idea. 
He goes to the last bookcase, which is about six feet from the glass wall. He hoists himself up on the shelf of the bookcase opposite it, wedges himself in. 
And pushes with one leg.      The giant bookcase teeters, but just barely. 
Langdon hoists himself further up, gets both legs up against the bookshelf. 
Pushes again -- more movement this time. 
Now he puts everything he has into it, straining like hell.    The bookcase starts to tip, goes just past the point of no return, starts to fall, gloriously headed straight for the glass wall, which it SLAMS into with enormous power and -- 
--- stops. 
Leaning against the wall.     Forget cracks, there's not even a scratch. 
The Cardinal SCREAMS, and Langdon looks to the sides, following the cables that reach to the walls. 
One of the Vatican Cops ducks 
INTO THE LEFT SIDE AISLE, 
which is lit only by the wild orange flames.    He creeps forward, gun in front of him, toward a fire extinguisher mounted on the wall. 
He reaches for it -- 
-- but a HAND reaches for him from behind, he's pulled off his feet and -- 
IN THE MAIN AISLE, 
Olivetti and Vincenzo whirl as TWO GUNSHOTS come from the darkened side aisle.    They race toward it. 
AT THE BONFIRE, 
Langdon SHOUTS to two more Vatican Cops, pointing upward. 
LANGDON The cleat, on the wall!   Get something to stand on! 
He's pointing at a cleat, maybe ten feet up on the wall, where the right guide wire is attached. 
Vatican Cops 2 & 3 drag a half-burned pew out of the fire and pull it underneath, leaning it against the wall for greater height, 
Langdon starts to climb it, to uncleat the wire. 
IN THE DARKENED LEFT AISLE 
Olivetti creeps forward, gun at the ready, Vincenzo close behind him. 
They see a form on the floor in front of them and Olivetti bends down -- it's the first Vatican Policeman. 
Dead in a pool of his own blood. 
Vincenzo, standing behind Olivetti, looks down, horrified, and in that moment of distraction, a figure creeps up behind him -- 
-- and twists his head 180 degrees with one smooth motion. 
Olivetti whirls, but his gun comes around a split-second slower than he does and in that split-second a shadow falls over him, something SLASHES through the air and -- 
IN THE MAIN AISLE, 
Langdon struggles to climb the pew that's leaned against the wall as Vatican Cop 4 finds a long-handled candle snuffer and races toward the edge of the fire with it. 
Blinking back the intense heat, he manages to hook the Cardinals manacled foot with it, he turns to Langdon-- 
-- who, stretched as far as he possibly can, just manages to loose the wire from its cleat, holding tightly to it so as not to let the Cardinal go into free-fall. 
But the pew on which he's balanced starts to wobble, then- -- 
-- BLAM!    BLAM! 
Two gunshots THUD into the chests of Vatican Cops 2 & 3, who were supporting the pew.    They fall, the pew tips -- 
-- and Langdon,   falling   -- 
-- loses his grip on the chain. 
The Cardinal falls toward the flames. Vatican Cop 4 tries to pull him to safety, but doesn't have enough of WHIRRS through the pulley until it reaches its the Cardinal to an abrupt stop, six feet lower 
-- and directly in the middle of the bonfire. 
His SHRIEK of agony echoes through the burning church. 
Langdon SLAMS to the floor just at the edge of the burning church pews, maybe CRACKING a rib on the hard floor of the church. 
A FIGURE steps out of the shadows, looming over him, Langdon looks up, expecting a gunshot, but instead -- 
-- sees the bleeding figure of Olivetti, staggering toward him, clutching his slit throat in his last moments of life. 
NEARBY, 
Vatican Cop 4 is desperately trying to pull the Cardinal from the flames, the end of the candle-snuffer is now hooked around the Cardinal's foot, he pulls him closer, reaches out, can almost grab his ankle -- 
-- until he is SHOT in the back.    He falls to the floor, drawing and dropping his gun in the process, losing his grip on the long-handled pole as well. 
On the ground, bleeding, he sees his gun, just a foot away from his hand. 
He reaches for it. 
And a foot steps on his wrist, BREAKING it. 
Mr. Gray stands over him,     implacable. 
FROM A DISTANCE, 
we see Mr. Gray fire two shots into the ground where Cop 4 is lying. 
Then he turns toward us. 
NEARBY, 
Langdon, still on the ground, looks up at the sound of the shots. Through the burning church pews he can see Mr. Gray, starting toward him. 
Langdon crawls, on all fours, through the outskirts of the bonfire, toward a recessed part of the wall ten or fifteen feet away. 
Mr. Gray steps up behind him, raises his gun           -- 
VOICE   (O.S.) Polizia! 
-- and turns.    TWO MORE COPS, Roman Carbinieri, have run into the burning church and are making their way down the center aisle, straight toward him. 
FR. SIMEON It is the recommendation of many that you ask to be removed from your post as Great Elector -- 
Mortati raises an eyebrow, seeing where this is going. 
FR. SIMEON (cont'd) -- thereby making yourself eligible to wear the Ring of the Fisherman. 
Mortati looks at him for a moment, then looks back, over his shoulder, where a small knot of Cardinals, who have clearly discussed this, are looking at him in confirmation. 
MORTATI If it is God's will, may His will be DONE 
CUT TO: 
INT     OFFICE OF THE SWISS GUARD       NIGHT 
CLOSE ON a handwritten page, half-filled with mathematical computations; the other half with a scratchy handwritten prose. 
(IF WE'RE EAGLE-EYED, we'll notice the phrase we move past just as we cut into the scene is "may His will be done," the same phrase we just heard Mortati utter.) 
Commandante Rocher is at his desk, Vittoria's leather-bound journals on the desk in front of him.    He's studying them carefully, and seems troubled by what he reads. 
Through the glass walls of his office, we can see a commotion in the still-chaotic Swiss Guard headquarters.    Someone is walking toward us, briskly, a WOMAN'S VOICE complaining loudly in Italian. 
Rocher calmly places the journals on top of the screen of the video monitor inlaid in his desk, the one we saw earlier, with a keyhole where a power switch should be. 
He pushes a button and the monitor rotates shut, into an inlaid panel in the desk's surface.    It closes just after -- 
VITTORIA (O.S.) Those journals are private property. 
-- Vittoria arrives in the doorway, livid. 
VITTORIA (cont'd) I demand that you return them to me. 
ROCHER (no attempt at a DENIAL) They are material evidence in a Vatican investigation. 
VITTORIA I am an Italian citizen and I have a right to- 
ROCHER This isn't Italy.     It isn't even Rome.    The Vatican is its own country, with its own laws, and when those journals crossed our border they became our property.     You will get them back when I have decided they contain nothing of value to this investigation. 
She looks at him, then down at the desk, where the outline of the hidden panel is visible in the veneer of the wood. 
VITTORIA Do you have something to hide, Commandante Rocher? 
ROCHER Do you, Doctor Vetra? 
He stresses her title, as if it offends 
CUT TO: 
EXT     SANTA MARIA DELLA VITTORIA        NIGHT 
The burning church, now mostly extinguished.    But a LARGE CROWD has gathered, along with a dozen police and fire vehicles. 
INT     SANTA MARIA DELLA VITTORIA        NIGHT 
As FIREMEN put out the last of the flames (not using water, but Halon gas, which creates no steam), a metallic TAPPING sound comes from somewhere. 
One of the Firemen approaches another, gets his attention   -- stop what you're doing and listen. 
They shut down a hose and stop, listening. 
There it is again.    They SHOUT in Italian to the others, now everybody shuts down their hoses and listens. 
The metallic TAPPING echoes in the smoldering church. 
They walk toward it -- it's coming from an oval plate in the floor, like a manhole cover, heavy and carved.   We've seen one of these before, it leads to a Demon's Hole. 
The TAPPING is louder now, rhythmic.    Somebody's down there. Crowbars are produced, the cover of the Demon's Hole is pried off and shoved aside, revealing -- 
-- Robert Langdon, wedged into the top of the opening, holding a rock in one hand as he clings precariously to the walls he has climbed. 
Strong hands reach down, haul him to his feet      -- 
AT THE FRONT OF THE CHURCH, 
-- and those same feet hurry to the front of the smoldering church, coming to a stop in front of -- 
-- Bernini's Ecstasy of St. Teresa. 
The statue he came here to find.    Now, as the Italian-speaking police and firemen work around him, Langdon moves, as if in his own world.    He looks to the statue, repeating fragments of the poem he has by now memorized: 
LANGDON Let angels guide you on your lofty quest... 
Directly over the recumbent saint, against a backdrop of gilded flame, hovers Bernini's angel.    The angel's hand clutches a pointed spear of fire. 
LANGDON (cont'd) Cross Rome the mystic elements unfold... 
Langdon's eyes follow the direction of the shaft, arcing toward the right side of the church. 
VOICE (O.S.) Professor? 
A ROMAN POLICEMAN, a member of the Carbinieri, comes up to Langdon, discussing him in Italian with TWO OTHER COPS as he approaches. 
ROMAN COP Langdon, is it? 
Langdon ignores him, pointing at the wall instead. 
LANGDON What direction is that? 
ROMAN COP Direction?   West, I think.    Mr. Langdon, we've confirmed with the Vatican that they invited you into this investigation, but what I- 
LANGDON Map. 
A MOMENT LATER, 
EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE         NIGHT 
St. Peter's Square is even more crowded than before.    Another move down the row of international television reporters, but this one's about twice as fast as the last one.    (Anybody not speaking English is subtitled.) 
SOUTH AFRICAN REPORTER -- possibility of terrorism, as the church has now confirmed arson at one of its oldest and holiest churches 
Moving on, to an Asian Reporter: 
ASIAN REPORTER -- resulting in at least six confirmed deaths -- 
To a Brazilian: 
BRAZILIAN REPORTER -- initial rumors that one of the dead was Cardinal Ebner of Frankfurt -- 
To an American: 
AMERICAN REPORTER -- been refuted by the Vatican, which has asked international media not to engage in, quote, "wild speculation"-- 
And to a French Woman: 
FRENCH REPORTER -- as conclave goes on, with no sign of agreement on a new pope yet. 
CUT TO: 
INT     OFFICE OF THE POPE         NIGHT 
In the papal office, the Camerlengo sits, alone, in front of the fireplace, staring into the flames, thinking. 
Behind him, a small knot of Swiss Guard debate their next move in Italian.    He speaks softly to them, in Italian, subtitled. 
CAMERLENGO At 11:15, if the church is still in peril, give the order to evacuate the cardinals.    But with dignity, let them exit into St. Peter's Square, with their heads held high.    I don't want the last image of this church to be frightened old men sneaking out a back door.    If Cardinal Mortati protests, escort him bodily.    Do you understand? 
The Guardsmen are uncomfortable with that idea. 
SWISS GUARDSMAN If you think it is the right thing, Signore. 
CAMERLENGO I'm certain it's the wrong thing, and I will be removed from my post for it.    But I also know we have no choice. 
They just look at him.   You're the boss. 
CAMERLENGO   (cont'd) Please clear the room so that I may pray on the matter. 
They get out.    He stares into the flames. 
CUT TO: 
EXT      PIAZZA NAVONA      NIGHT 
Piazza Navona is lightly peopled on this soft summer night with so much attention directed toward the Vatican. 
The hood of a car glides into view, nearly silent, on the far side of the fountain.    Langdon and the two Roman Cops step out and survey the area. 
Langdon looks to the fountain.    Its central core is twenty feet tall, a rugged mountain of marble with caves and grottoes through which water churns.    Atop it stands an obelisk that climbs another forty feet. 
LANGDON (eyes searching) Let angels guide you... 
But there's no angel anywhere.      He turns to the first Roman Cop. 
LANGDON (cont'd) Isn't there an angel on this fountain? 
ROMAN COP Not anymore. 
LANGDON The marker's no good without an angel, pointing to the final- 
ROMAN COP Blame Mussolini.    He wanted it for his summer- 
But the Cop stops mid-sentence as he notices the black van parked on the far side of the fountain. 
Silently, the Cops gesture to each other to go opposite ways around the fountain, and to Langdon to stay where he is. 
Langdon, frustrated but no action hero, watches them as they slowly encircle the van. 
AT THE DRIVER'S SIDE, 
the First Cop approaches the Driver's Window, sees Mr. Gray sitting implacably behind the wheel.    He taps lightly with a knuckle, his drawn gun at his side, just out of view. 
Mr. Gray opens the window. 
MR. GRAY Si? 
The Roman Cop looks down, ever so briefly, at a small spreading bloodstain on Mr. Gray's shirt.    When he looks back up -- 
-- there is a silenced pistol pointing directly at him. 
PHOOM. 
He takes a bullet in the forehead, slumps forward against the window, and -- 
FROM A DISTANCE, 
we see his body pulled rapidly into the van through the driver's window.    Whole thing took about three seconds.    DINERS at an outdoor cafe don't even notice. 
FROM LANGDON'S POINT OF VIEW, 
on the other side of the fountain, the van rocks slightly, but he can't see anything out of the ordinary. 
He turns, looks to the Second Cop, who is just now approaching from the rear of the van. 
WITH THE SECOND COP, 
this one's got his gun in front of him, he's ready for anything. We creep around the back of the van with him, and just as he comes around to where he can see the driver's side -- 
-- the barrel of the silencer presses into his forehead.   A quick exchange in Italian: 
Guidera nods weakly as, around them, it seems like everybody arrives at the fountain -- Carbinieri, Swiss Guard, Vatican Police, paramedics -- car after car after car. 
LANGDON (cont'd) (still to Guidera) Where is it?! 
CARDINAL GUIDERA Castel... Sant'Angelo... 
CUT TO: 
INT   OFFICE OF THE SWISS GUARD           NIGHT 
CLOSE ON a row of weapons in a cabinet in the Office of the Swiss Commander Rocher selects a pistol and slips it into a harness. 
While his back is turned to the room, Lt. Chartrand, the young Swiss Guardsman who escorted Langdon to the Archives, hurries up behind him. 
CHARTRAND Langdon says Cardinal Guidera will be killed in Piazza Navona.    He's on his way there with two Carbinieri. 
ROCHER Send everyone we can spare. 
He closes and locks the cabinet, heads for the door.     Alone. 
CHARTRAND You? 
ROCHER Staying here to continue the search for the explosive. 
He leaves.    Chartrand looks back at the weapons cabinet.     Sees the space from which the pistol was taken. 
CUT TO: 
EXT     CASTEL SANT'ANGELO         NIGHT 
We fly over a bridge, flanked by a dozen angel statues standing sentinel on either side, leading directly toward-- 
-- the Castel Sant'Angelo, Castle of the Angels, its ancient stone ramparts lit by floodlights.    Soaring swiftly up its facade, we close in on a mammoth bronze angel standing atop the citadel. 
It points the way, all right, its sword aimed directly downward, at the castle itself, as if to say you've found it. 
DOWN ON THE GROUND, 
several Police Cars come to a stop in front of the castle at the same time. 
Langdon climbs out the back of one just as Vittoria gets out of a car driven by a SWISS GUARDSMAN. 
Langdon grabs her, thrilled to see her. 
LANGDON You're all right? 
VITTORIA I'm all right, what about you?! 
LANGDON Cold and wet but alive.       Where's Rocher? 
VITTORIA I don't know. He took the journals, he's hiding something. 
More Cops arrive, and a SECURITY GUARD is pressed into service behind them, opening the massive front doors to the Castle, 
LANGDON This is it.    The Church of Illumination is somewhere in the castle. 
Cops pour into the courtyard of the castle.       Langdon and Vittoria follow. 
EXT     CASTEL SANT'ANGELO - COURTYARD          NIGHT 
They dash around the outer bulwark of the Castle.       The courtyard beneath them looks like a museum of ancient warfare     -- catapults, stacks of marble cannonballs, fearful contraptions. 
As the Cops quickly and silently search every nook, Langdon and Vittoria follow closely. 
LANGDON The Vatican used this place for centuries as a hideout, a prison for enemies of the church -- there are passages and catacombs everywhere. It makes sense, the Illuminati infiltrated the Church's own stronghold.    Bernini was chief architect here, he left clues everywhere, it's even surrounded by a pentagonal park! 
They reach the central core of the castle. 
Another angel statue, similar to the one atop the citadel, stands in front of them, its sword held in the same position, pointing downward at an angle. 
Langdon studies it, follows the line of the angel's sword       -- and sees a gated drive that cuts across the courtyard itself. 
LANGDON   (cont'd) There. 
A MOMENT LATER, 
he and Vittoria are down in the courtyard, at the mouth of the gated drive. The gate is open and leads to a tunnel, a gaping entry in the central core. 
LANGDON A traforo.    Commanders on horseback used them to ride directly into a castle from the outside. 
He gestures to the nearby Cops, who are already on it, and they all head into the darkened tunnel. 
INT   TUNNEL       NIGHT 
Police flashlights switch on and their beams bounce crazily off the walls of the tunnel. 
Footsteps CRUNCH as they all press in, Langdon and Vittoria content to let men with guns lead the way. 
It gets darker as they descend, and then, by the echo of their footfalls, they can tell they've entered -- 
A LARGE CHAMBER. 
More lights are switched on, illuminating the space, which terminates in three stone walls. 
LANGDON It's a dead end. 
But the Police attention is focused on the black van parked in the center of the room. 
Roman Police snap into action, flashlight beams bounce everywhere, guns point in every possible window of the van, SHOUTS for whoever's inside to get the hell out now, now, now. 
The doors are flung open. 
The van is empty. 
they turn a corner and, without warning --- the tunnel ends. 
There is only a thick iron door, and as Langdon searches it with his flashlight, he finds no handle, no knob, no keyhole, no hinges. 
LANGDON Senza chiave!    A one-way portal, the only access is from the other side! 
With a ROAR of anger, he starts to POUND on the door.      Vittoria joins in. 
INT      OFFICES OF THE POPE - HALLWAY        NIGHT 
CLOSE ON a watch -- 11:40.     Outside the door to the Pope's office, Lt. Chartrand is desperate. 
While Father Simeon attempts to argue with him in Italian, Chartrand turns, hearing the POUNDING coming from down the hall. 
He heads toward it, rounds a corner   -- 
INT      POPE'S PRIVATE LIBRARY       NIGHT 
-- and steps into the Pope's private library, where the POUNDING is louder. 
He steps to a heavy door in the wall, looks unused for a century, but it's clearly the source of the sounds.    He looks down, sees three keyholes in the door, and an ancient key in each of them. 
Chartrand puts his ear to the door, hears VOICES    -- 
INT     IL PASSETTO      NIGHT 
-- and, on the other side, Langdon and Vittoria squint at the light as the heavy door is hauled open before them. 
Chartrand looks at them in amazement    -- how'd you get here? 
LANGDON The Camerlengo is in danger! 
INT     PAPAL OFFICES - HALLWAY         NIGHT 
Chartrand, Langdon, and Vittoria round the corner and race down the hallway toward the Pope's office, just as -- 
-- a BLOODCURDLING SCREAM comes from behind the closed doors. The Swiss Guard move fast, throwing open the door. 
INT      POPE'S OFFICE      NIGHT 
Langdon and the others race into the pope's office and find a truly bizarre scene. 
Rocher is near the fireplace, brandishing his sidearm, aimed at the Camerlengo, who lays on the floor, writhing in agony. 
His cassock is torn open, and his bare chest is seared black.     A large, square brand is on the floor at Rocher's feet. 
Two of the Swiss Guard act without hesitation    -- they open fire. 
Two bullets SLAM into Rocher's chest and he crumples. 
Father Simeon bursts into the room, and as he does the Camerlengo rolls over onto one side, points his index finger at Simeon, and cries out a single word: 
CAMERLENGO ILLUMINATUS! 
FR. SIMEON You bastard!        You sanctimonious- 
He rushes at the Camerlengo and Chartrand reacts on instinct, putting three bullets in Father Simeon's back. 
He falls to the floor, dead. 
Chartrand and the Guards dash to the Camerlengo, who clutches his chest, convulsing in pain. 
Langdon walks toward him, stunned, as the Guards pull the Camerlengo's hands away from his wound, revealing the fifth brand. 
The crossed keys, seared into the flesh of his chest. 
Langdon looks at Rocher in utter disbelief. Rocher's still alive, trying to say something, holding out a hand. 
Everyone else in the room is focused on the Camerlengo, so Langdon bends down, takes the dying man's hand. 
Rocher looks up at him, desperation in his eyes, trying to communicate something but too weak to say more than: 
ROCHER For safety. 
And his eyes close. 
Langdon withdraws his hand from Rocher's, and finds the dying man has pressed something into his palm. 
A key. 
Langdon looks at it, and it gives him a thought. He turns, looks at the Camerlengo, whose chest is exposed. 
The crossed keys are indeed branded there      -- but they're upside down. 
Langdon slips the key in his pocket and approaches the Camerlengo as Chartrand gets to his feet, on his radio. 
CHARTRAND I need a Medevac to St. Peter's Square, right now! 
The Camerlengo struggles to a sitting position. 
CAMERLENGO Order the evacuation.    We only have nineteen minutes. 
LANGDON (POINTING) The keys.    They're upside down. 
VITTORIA You think it's a sign? 
LANGDON Everything has been a sign, why should this be any different? 
He looks at Rocher, dead on the floor.        Back at the branded keys. 
LANGDON (cont'd) Crossed keys -- the symbol for the papacy, upside-down. 
CAMERLENGO St. Peter. 
VITTORIA Heat decreases battery life.      We may have less than five minutes. 
CAMERLENGO So? 
VITTORIA If I pull the power with less than five minutes, the residual charge won't hold suspension. We should leave it and get clear if we can. At least if it goes off down here the damage will be- 
CAMERLENGO NO. 
And with that, he snatches up the canister and takes off running, back the way they came. 
VITTORIA Wait! 
LANGDON Father, please! 
But he's already gone, around a darkened corner. 
EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE           NIGHT 
In St. Peter's Square, the helicopter that was brought in for the Camerlengo waits, propellers spinning. 
The Crowd seems even bigger now, and a REPORTER tells us why: 
REPORTER -- in St. Peter's Square where, despite a bomb threat and order of evacuation, the crowd is actually growing in size as we await -- 
INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA           NIGHT 
The Camerlengo emerges from the spiral staircase, accidentally kicks over one of the oil lamps, spilling its burning oil on the floor of the Basilica. 
He ignores it, racing for the front doors. 
INT     THE NECROPOLIS          NIGHT 
Langdon and Vittoria come around a corner in the Necropolis, having taken slightly longer to find their way. 
Langdon spots the circular entry by which they first came in. 
LANGDON There it is! 
They race toward it and climb up. 
INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA           NIGHT 
They hurry across the floor of St. Peter's Basilica and burst out the huge doors that open onto St. Peter's Square, just as -- 
EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE           NIGHT 
-- the helicopter lifts off. 
The Crowd watches in amazement, and the PILOT stands in the square, talking animatedly to two Swiss Guard, gesturing toward the helicopter.    But if he's not flying it... 
Langdon looks up at the helicopter as it climbs, straight upward. 
LANGDON Oh my God... 
INT     HELICOPTER       NIGHT 
The Camerlengo is indeed at the controls of the helicopter, piloting it upwards and away from the crowd below.    The canister is beside him on the passenger seat. 
EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE           NIGHT 
The crowd falls silent, all eyes turning upward, watching the helicopter recede into the clouds. 
INT     HELICOPTER       NIGHT 
The canister BEEPS on the seat beside the Camerlengo -- still a few minutes left on its timer, but the urgently flashing red power light can't be considered a good sign. 
The Camerlengo looks at it. 
Crosses himself. 
Raises the crucifix from around his neck and brushes it against his lips. 
EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE          NIGHT 
All eyes are upturned, all voices have fallen still, watching as the helicopter's anti-collision lights disappear into the clouded night sky. 
EXT     IN THE SKY       NIGHT 
High above the square, the helicopter still climbs, rotating in circles. 
INT     HELICOPTER       NIGHT 
CLOSE ON the canister as the red light flashes even faster, and a shrill BEEPING fills the cockpit. 
EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE          NIGHT 
In the crowd, faces turn, PEOPLE point.        There's something in the sky above them. 
Langdon and Vittoria see it too -- a faint white speck, far up in the sky.    This is the explosion? 
EXT     IN THE SKY       NIGHT 
No, the faint white speck is a billowing parachute    -- and the 
Camerlengo dangles at the end of it. 
ABOVE HIM, 
the helicopter continues to climb, far up into the night. 
INT     HELICOPTER       NIGHT 
And in the canister, the BEEPING sound becomes continuous and the light winks out altogether. 
ROCHER (raising the gun) Put it down! 
But the Camerlengo RAMS the red-hot brand into the exposed flesh of his bare chest.    His skin SIZZLES and smokes, Rocher SHOUTS, the Camerlengo SCREAMS in agony, and we know the rest -- 
-- the door bursts open, Swiss Guard pour in, Rocher is shot, Father Simeon races toward the Camerlengo -- 
FR. SIMEON You bastard!       You sanctimonious- 
-- and the Camerlengo rolls over, pointing one long finger at Father Simeon and CRYING OUT: 
CAMERLENGO ILLUMINATUS! 
As we saw before, Lt. Chartrand FIRES THREE TIMES, killing Father Simeon in his tracks, we pull back, the image turns to -- 
INT      ROCHER'S OFFICE      NIGHT 
-- video again, and as we complete the move out from the monitor, we see it isn't Langdon and Vittoria watching the image this time -- 
--- but Cardinal Mortati, flanked by two other red-robed Cardinals and a half-dozen Swiss Guardsman. 
Langdon and Vittoria stand to one side as Mortati turns and looks at them.    Suddenly, he seems very, very old. 
CUT TO: 
INT     GRAND STAIRCASE       NIGHT 
The Camerlengo, escorted by two Swiss Guardsman, descends the Royal Staircase that leads to the Sistine Chapel. 
Though he is injured and limping, he radiates confidence, even benevolence, a man certain this is the greatest day of his life. 
He approaches the chapel doors, speaks to the Swiss Guard posted there as he approaches. 
CAMERLENGO I have been summoned by the College of Cardinals. 
Oh, they know all about it.    They lift their swords, the doors sweep open, the Camerlengo strides boldly across the threshold -- 
INT     SISTINE CHAPEL       NIGHT 
-- and stops, right there, the look of imminent ascendancy frozen on his face. 
The Cardinals are looking at him, all right, but not in joy, not in wonder, not for leadership.    One hundred sixty-one faces are turned toward his, with an expression of --- 
-- utter condemnation. 
He stands there for a moment, searching their faces, trying to figure out what could possibly have happened. 
But it doesn't matter. 
They know.   And he knows they know. 
He takes two steps backwards, almost involuntarily. 
Starts to teeter, balances himself in the doorway. 
Then straightens himself, smoothes his cassock. 
And turns and walks away, back up the staircase. 
Two Swiss Guard move to go after him, quickly, but Cardinal Mortati gestures to them. 
MORTATI Gently.    But within our walls. 
The Swiss Guard follow the Camerlengo up the staircase. 
CUT TO: 
INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA      NIGHT 
The Camerlengo comes out of a doorway and into St. Peter's Basilica.    He heads for the main doors -- 
-- just as HALF A DOZEN SWISS GUARD step in from outside, blocking his way.    Some MURMUR softly into their radios. 
He stops, turns around to come back the way he came --- 
-- but TWO SWISS GUARD appear in that doorway, also with radios. 
He turns again, no way to go but toward the front of the Basilica. 
He sees the candlelit balustrade near the front, the one that leads to the grottoes and the Necropolis.    He picks up his pace. 
The Swiss Guard follow, at a slight distance. 
The Camerlengo reaches the spiral staircase and stops, looking down, seeing the oil lamp he kicked over earlier. 
He thinks.     He picks up a fresh lamp, holds it to his face    -- 
-- and blows out its flame with a soft PUFF. 
ACROSS THE BASILICA, 
we're with the Swiss Guard as they walk slowly toward him. 
But they hear a CRY from ahead, he's gone down the stairs a short distance, and they can hear the sound of liquid SLOSHING. 
They break into a run as they realize what he's about to do, they're twenty feet away, then ten, then just close enough to see the Camerlengo as he -- 
-- SMASHES a burning oil lamp at his feet.     The flames leap onto his oil-soaked clothes and -- 
-- HE IGNITES IN A PILLAR OF WHITE FLAME. 
CUT TO: 
INT      SISTINE CHAPEL      NIGHT 
