ANNIE HALL 
ANNIE HALL 
written by Woody Allen Marshall Brickman 
(Sound and Woody Allen monologue begin) 
FADE IN: 
White credits dissolve in and out on black screen.  No sound. 
FADE OUT: credits 
FADE IN: 
Abrupt medium close-up of Alvy Singer doing a comedy monologue.  He wearing a crumbled sports jacket and tieless shirt; the background is stark. 
ALVY There's an old joke.  Uh, two elderly women are at a Catskills mountain resort, and one of 'em says: "Boy, the food at this place is really terrible." The other one says, "Yeah, I know, and such ... small portions." Well, that's essentially how I feel about life.  Full of loneliness and misery and suffering and unhappiness, and it's all over much too quickly.  The-the other important joke for me is one that's, uh, usually attributed to Groucho Marx, but I think it appears originally in Freud's wit and its relation to the unconscious.  And it goes like this-I'm paraphrasing: Uh ... "I would never wanna belong to any club that would have someone like me for a member." That's the key joke of my adult life in terms of my relationships with women.  Tsch, you know, lately the strangest things have been going through my mind, 'cause I turned forty, tsch, and I guess I'm going through a life crisis or something, I don't know. I, uh ... and I'm not worried about aging. I'm not one o' those characters, you know. Although I'm balding slightly on top, that's about the worst you can say about me.  I, uh, I think I'm gonna get better as I get older, you know?  I think I'm gonna be the- the balding virile type, you know, as opposed to say the, uh, distinguished gray, for instance, you know?  'Less I'm neither o' those two. Unless I'm one o' those guys with saliva dribbling out of his mouth who wanders into a cafeteria with a shopping bag screaming about socialism. (Sighing) Annie and I broke up and I-I still can't get my mind around that.  You know, I-I keep sifting the pieces of the relationship through my mind and-and examining my life and tryin' to figure out where did the screw-up come, you know, and a year ago we were... tsch, in love.  You know, and-and-and ... And it's funny, I'm not-I'm not a morose type.  I'm not a depressive character. I-I-I, uh, (Laughing) you know, I was a reasonably happy kid, I guess.  I was brought up in Brooklyn during World War II. 
CUT TO: 
INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE-DAY 
Alvy as young boy sits on a sofa with his  mother in an old-fashioned, cluttered doctor's office.  The doctor stands near the sofa, holding a cigarette and listening. 
MOTHER (To the doctor) He's been depressed.  All off a sudden, he can't do anything. 
DOCTOR (Nodding) Why are you depressed, Alvy? 
MOTHER (Nudging Alvy) Tell Dr. Flicker. (Young Alvy sits, his head down.  His mother answers for him) It's something he read. 
DOCTOR (Puffing on his cigarette and nodding) Something he read, huh? 
ALVY (His head still down) The universe is expanding. 
DOCTOR The universe is expanding? 
ALVY (Looking up at the doctor) Well, the universe is everything, and if it's expanding, someday it will break apart and that would be the end of everything! 
Disgusted, his mother looks at him. 
MOTHER (shouting) What is that your business? (she turns back to the doctor) He stopped doing his homework. 
ALVY What's the point? 
MOTHER (Excited, gesturing with her hands) What has the universe got to do with it? You're here in Brooklyn!  Brooklyn is not expanding! 
DOCTOR (Heartily, looking down at Alvy) It won't be expanding for billions of years yet, Alvy.  And we've gotta try to enjoy ourselves while we're here.  Uh? 
He laughs. 
CUT TO: 
Fall shot of house with an amusement-park roller-coaster ride built over it. A line of cars move up and then slides with great speed while out the window of the house a band shakes a dust mop. 
ALVY'S VOICE My analyst says I exaggerate my childhood memories, but I swear I was brought up underneath the roller- 
CUT TO: 
INT. HOUSE 
Alvy as a child sits at the table eating soup and reading a comic book while his father sits on the sofa reading the paper.  The house shakes with every move of the roller coaster. 
ALVY'S VOICE -coaster in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn.  Maybe that accounts for my personality, which is a little nervous, I think. 
CUT TO: 
Young Alvy at the food-stand concession watching three military men representing the Army, the Navy and the Marines arm in arm with a blond woman in a skirted bathing suit.  They all turn and run toward the foreground.  The girl stops before the camera to lean over and throw a kiss.  The sign over the concession reads "Steve's Famous Clam Bar.  Ice Cold Beer, "and the roller coaster is moving in full gear in the background. 
ALVY'S VOICE You know, I have a hyperactive imagination. My mind tends to jump around a little, and have some trouble between fantasy and reality. 
CUT TO: 
Full shot of people in bumper cars thoroughly enjoying bumping into each other as Alvy father stands in the center of the track directing traffic. 
ALVY'S VOICE My father ran the bumper-car concession. (Alvy as a child moves into the frame driving a bumper car.  He stops as other cars bombard him.  His father continues to direct the traffic) There-there he is and there I am.  But I-I-I-I used to get my aggression out through those cars all the time. 
Alvy backs up his car off screen. 
INT. SCHOOLROOM - DAY 
The camera pans over three austere-looking teachers standing in front of the blackboard.  The chalk writing on the board changes as each teacher lectures. While Alvy speaks, one of the male teachers puts an equation on the blackboard. - "2 X 10 = 20 " and other arithmetic formulas. 
ALVY'S VOICE I remember the staff at our public school.  You know, we had a saying, uh, that "Those who can't do, teach, and those who can't teach, teach gym." And ...uh, h'h, of course, those who couldn't do anything, I think, were assigned to our school.  I must say- 
ROB You're crazy! 
ALVY No, I'm not.  We were walking off the tennis court, and you know, he was there and me and his wife, and he looked at her and then they both looked at me, and under his breath he said, "Jew." 
ROB Alvy, you're a total paranoid. 
ALVY Wh- How am I a paran-?  Well, I pick up on those kind o' things.  You know, I was having lunch with some guys from NBC, so I said ... uh, "Did you eat yet or what?" and Tom Christie said, "No, didchoo?" Not, did you, didchoo eat?  Jew?  No, not did you eat, but Jew eat?  Jew.  You get it? Jew eat? 
ROB Ah, Max, you, uh ... 
ALVY Stop calling me Max. 
ROB Why, Max?  It's a good name for you.  Max, you see conspiracies in everything. 
ALVY No, I don't!  You know, I was in a record store.  Listen to this -so I know there's this big tall blond crew-cutted guy and he's lookin' at me in a funny way and smiling and he's saying, "Yes, we have a sale this week on Wagner." Wagner, Max, Wagner-so I know what he's really tryin' to tell me very significantly Wagner. 
ROB Right, Max.  California, Max. 
ALVY Ah. 
ROB Let's get the hell outta this crazy city. 
ALVY Forget it, Max. 
ROB -we move to sunny L.A. All of show business is out there, Max. 
ALVY No, I cannot.  You keep bringing it up, but I don't wanna live in a city where the only cultural advantage is that you can make a right turn on a red light. 
ROB (Checking his watch) Right, Max, forget it.  Aren't you gonna be late for meeting Annie? 
ALVY I'm gonna meet her in front of the Beekman. I think I have a few minutes left.  Right? 
EXT. BEEKMAN THEATER-DAY 
Alvy stands in front of glass doors of theater, the ticket taker behind him just inside the glass doors.  The sounds of city traffic, car horns honking, can be heard while he looks around waiting for, Annie. A man in a black leather jacket, walking past the theater, stops in front of, Alvy.  He looks at him, then moves away.  He stops a few steps farther and turns around to look at Alvy again.  Alvy looks away, then back at the man.  The man continues to stare. Alvy scratches his head, looking for Annie and trying not to notice the man. The man, still staring, walks back to Alvy. 
1ST MAN Hey, you on television? 
ALVY (Nodding his head) No. Yeah, once in a while.  You know, like occasionally. 
1ST MAN What's your name? 
ALVY (Clearing his throat) You wouldn't know it.  It doesn't matter. What's the difference? 
1ST MAN You were on ... uh, the ... uh, the Johnny Carson, right? 
ALVY Once in a while, you know.  I mean, you know, every now- 
1ST MAN What's your name? 
Alvy  is getting more and more uneasy as the man talks; more and more people move through the doors of the theater. 
ALVY (Nervously) I'm ... I'm, uh, I'm Robert Redford. 
1ST MAN (Laughing) Come on. 
ALVY Alvy Singer. It was nice nice ... Thanks very much ... for everything. 
They shake hands and Alvy pats the man's arm.  The man in turn looks over his shoulder and motions to another man. All excited now, he points to Alvy and calls out. Alvy looks impatient. 
1ST MAN Hey! 
2ND MAN (Off screen) What? 
1ST MAN This is Alvy Singer! 
ALVY Fellas ... you know-Jesus!  Come on! 
1ST MAN (Overlapping, ignoring Alvy) This guy's on television!  Alvy Singer, right?  Am I right? 
ALVY (Overlapping 1st man) Gimme a break, will yuh, gimme a break. Jesus Christ! 
1ST MAN (Still ignoring Alvy's protestations) This guy's on television. 
ALVY I need a large polo mallet! 
2ND MAN (Moving into the screen) Who's on television? 
1ST MAN This guy, on the Johnny Carson show. 
ALVY (Annoyed) Fellas, what is this-a meeting o' the teamsters?  You know.. . 
2ND MAN (Also ignoring Alvy) What program? 
1ST MAN (Holding out a matchbook) Can I have your autograph? 
They move closer to the stage, looking out from the wings. 
ALLISON (Overlapping) Yes. 
ALVY (Overlapping) -that I've got to ... ah ... ah ... They're gonna laugh at him for a couple minutes, then I gotta go out there, I gotta ... get laughs, too.  How much can they laugh? (Off screen) They-they they're laughed out. 
ALLISON (Off screen) Do you feel all right? 
As Allison and Alvy look out at the stage, the camera cuts to their point of view: a comedian standing at a podium in front of huge waving pictures of Adlai Stevenson.  The audience, laughing and clapping, sits at round tables in clusters around the room. 
The camera moves back to Allison and Alvy watching the stage.  Alvy is swinging his hands nervously. 
COMEDIAN (Off screen, onstage) You know ... 
Alvy starts looking Allison up and down; people in the background mill about. 
ALVY (Above the chatter around him) Look, what's your-what's your name? 
COMEDIAN (Off screen) ... General Eisenhower is not ... 
ALLISON (Looking out at the stage) Allison. 
ALVY Yeah?  Allison what? 
ALLISON (Still looking off screen) Portchnik. 
COMEDIAN ... a group from the ... 
ALVY (Coughing) Thank you. I-I don't know why they would have me at this kind of rally 'cause ... (He clears his throat) Excuse me, I'm not essentially a political comedian at all. 
The audience starts to laugh. 
ALVY I ... interestingly had, uh, dated ... a woman in the Eisenhower Administration ... briefly ... and, uh, it was ironic to me 'cause, uh . . . tsch . . . 'cause I was trying to, u-u-uh, do to her what Eisenhower has been doing to the country for the last eight years. 
The audience is with him, laughing, as Allison continues to watch offstage. 
INT. APARTMENT BEDROOM. 
Allison and, Alvy are on the bed, kissing.  There are books all over the room; a fireplace, unlit, along one of the walls. Alvy suddenly breaks away and sits on the edge of the bed. Allison looks at him. 
ALVY H'm, I'm sorry, I can't go through with this, because it-I can't get it off my mind, Allison ... it's obsessing me! 
ALLISON Well, I'm getting tired of it.  I need your attention. 
Alvy gets up from the bed and starts walking restlessly around the room, gesturing with his hands. 
ALVY It-but it-it ... doesn't make any sense. He drove past the book depository and the police said conclusively that it was an exit wound.  So-how is it possible for Oswald to have fired from two angles at once?  It doesn't make sense. 
ALLISON Alvy. 
Alvy, stopping for a moment at the fireplace mantel, sighs.  He then snaps his fingers and starts walking again. 
ALVY I'll tell you this!  He was not marksman enough to hit a moving target at that range.  But ... (Clears his throat) if there was a second assassin ... it- That's it! 
Alvy stops at the music stand with open sheet music on it as Allison gets up from the bed and retrieves a pack of cigarettes from a bookshelf. 
ALLISON We've been through this. 
ALVY If they-they recovered the shells from that rifle. 
ALLISON (Moving back to the bed and lighting a cigarette) Okay.  All right, so whatta yuh saying, now?  That e-e-everybody o-o-on the Warren Commission is in on this conspiracy, right? 
ALVY Well, why not? 
ALLISON Yeah, Earl Warren? 
ALVY (Moving toward the bed) Hey ... honey, I don't know Earl Warren. 
ALLISON Lyndon Johnson? 
ALVY (Propping one knee on the bed and gesturing) L-L-Lyndon Johns Lyndon Johnson is a politician.  You know the ethics those guys have?  It's like-uh, a notch underneath child molester. 
ALLISON Then everybody's in in the conspiracy? 
ALVY (Nodding his head) Tsch. 
ALLISON The FBI, and the CIA, and J. Edgar Hoover and oil companies and the Pentagon and the men's-room attendant at the White House? 
Alvy touches Allison's shoulder, then gets up from the bed and starts walking again. 
ALVY I-I-I-I would leave out the men's-room attendant. 
ALLISON You're using this conspiracy theory as an excuse to avoid sex with me. 
ALVY Oh, my God! (Then, to the camera) She's right!  Why did I turn off Allison Portchnik?  She was-she was beautiful.  She was willing.  She was real ... intelligent. (Sighing) Is it the old Groucho Marx joke?  That-that I-I just don't wanna belong to any club that would have someone like me for a member? 
ALVY'S VOICE (Off screen, laughing) Oh, I can imagine.  P-p-probably the wife of an astronaut. 
ANNIE'S VOICE Then there was Jerry, the actor. 
CUT TO: 
FLASHBACK OF BRICK-WALLED APARTMENT - NIGHT 
The younger, Annie and Jerry lean against the wall. Jerry is running his band down Annie's bare arm. Annie and Alvy walk into the room, observing the younger Annie, in jeans and T-shirt, with Jerry. 
ALVY'S VOICE (Laughing) Look at you, you-you,-re such a clown. 
ANNIE'S VOICE I look pretty. 
ALVY'S VOICE Well, yeah, you always look pretty, but that guy with you ... 
JERRY Acting is like an exploration of the soul. I-it's very religious.  Uh, like, uh, a kind of liberating consciousness.  It's like a visual poem. 
ALVY (Laughing) Is he kidding with that crap? 
YOUNGER ANNIE (Laughing) Oh, right.  Right, yeah, I think I know exactly what you mean, when you say "religious." 
ALVY (Incredulous, to Annie) You do? 
ANNIE (Still watching) Oh, come on-I mean, I was still younger. 
ALVY Hey, that was last year. 
JERRY It's like when I think of dying.  You know how I would like to die? 
YOUNGER ANNIE No, how? 
JERRY I'd like to get torn apart by wild animals. 
ALVY'S VOICE Heavy!  Eaten by some squirrels. 
ANNIE'S VOICE Hey, listen-I mean, he was a terrific actor, and look at him, he's neat-looking and he was emotional ... Y-hey, I don't think you like emotion too much. 
Jerry stops rubbing the younger Annie's arm and slides down to the floor as she raises her foot toward his chest. 
JERRY Touch my heart ... with your foot. 
ALVY'S VOICE I-I may throw up! 
CUT BACK TO: 
EXTERIOR.  BEACH-DUSK 
It's now sunset, the water reflecting the last light.  The camera moves over the scene.  The off screen voices of Alvy and Annie are heard as they walk, the camera always one step ahead of them. 
ANNIE He was creepy. 
ALVY Yeah, I-I think you're pretty lucky I came along. 
ANNIE (Laughing) Oh, really?  Well, la-de-da! 
ALVY La-de-da.  If I-if anyone had ever told me that I would be taking out a girl who used expressions like "la-de-da" . . . 
ANNIE Oh, that's right.  That you really like those New York girls. 
ALVY Well, no ... not just, not only. 
ANNIE Oh, I'd say so.  You married- 
CUT TO: 
INT. NEW YORK CITY APARTMENT-NIGHT 
A cocktail party is in progress, the rooms crowded with guests as Alvy and Robin make their way through the people.  A waiter, carrying a tray, walks past them.  Alvy reaches out to pick up a glass; Robin reaches over and picks it of the tray first.  There is much low-key chatter in the background. 
ANNIE (Off screen) -two of them. 
ROBIN There's Henry Drucker.  He has a chair in history at Princeton.  Oh, the short man is Hershel Kaminsky.  He has a chair in philosophy at Cornell. 
ALVY Yeah, two more chairs and they got a dining-room set. 
ROBIN Why are you so hostile? 
ALVY (Sighing) 'Cause I wanna watch the Knicks on television. 
ROBIN (Squinting) Is that Paul Goodman?  No. And be nice to the host because he's publishing my book.  Hi, Doug!  Douglas Wyatt. "A Foul-Rag-and-Bone Shop-of-the-Heart." 
They move through the rooms, Robin holding a drink in one hand, her arm draped in Alvy's; the crowd mills around them. 
ALVY (Taking Robin's hand) I'm so tired of spending evenings making fake insights with people who work for Dysentery. 
Rob and Alvy, carrying tennis rackets, come through the door of the locker room to the lobby.  They are dressed in tennis whites.  They walk toward the indoor court. 
ROB Max, my serve is gonna send yuh to the showers- 
ALVY Right, right, so g-get back to what we were discussing, the failure of the country to get behind New York City is-is anti-Semitism. 
ROB Max, the city is terribly worried. 
ALVY But the- I'm not discussing politics or economics.  This is foreskin. 
ROB No, no, no, Max, that's a very convenient out.  Every time some group disagrees with you it's because of anti-Semitism. 
ALVY Don't you see?  The rest of the country looks upon New York like we're-we're left-wing Communist, Jewish, homosexual, pornographers. I think of us that way, sometimes, and I-I live here. 
ROB Max, if we lived in California, we could play outdoors every day, in the sun. 
ALVY Sun is bad for yuh.  Everything our parents said was good is bad.  Sun, milk, red meat, college ... 
INT. TENNIS COURT 
Annie and Janet, in tennis whites, stand on the court holding tennis rackets and balls.  They are chattering and giggling. 
ANNIE (Laughing) I know, but ooh- here he comes.  Okay. 
Rob and Alvy enter the court and walk over to the two women.  Rob kisses Janet and makes introduction. 
ROB You know Alvy? 
JANET Oh, hi, Alvy. 
ANNIE (To Rob) How are yuh? 
ROB (To Alvy) You know Annie? 
JANET I'm sorry.  This is Annie Hall. 
ALVY Hi. 
ANNIE Hi. 
Annie and Alvy shake hands. 
JANET (Laughing) Alvy. 
ROB (Eager to begin) Who's playing who here?  Alvy Well, uh ... you and me against them? 
ANNIE (Overlapping Alvy) Well ... so ... I can't play too good, you know. 
JANET (Laughing) I've had four lessons! 
The group, laughing and chatting, divide up-Rob and Annie moving to the other side of the net, Alvy and Janet standing where they are.  They start to play mixed doubles, each taking turns and playing well. At one point in the game, Annie starts to talk to Rob, then turns and sees a ball heading toward her. 
ALVY (Hitting the halt back) Holy gods! 
INT. LOBBY 
Alvy, dressed, puts things into a gym bag.  One knee is on the bench and his back is turned from the entrance. Annie walks toward the entrance door dressed in street clothes and carrying her tennis bag over her shoulder.  Seeing Alvy, she stops and turns. 
ANNIE Hi.  Hi, hi. 
ALVY (Looking over his shoulder) Hi.  Oh, hi.  Hi. 
ANNIE (Hands clasped in front of her, smiling) Well, bye. She laughs and backs up slowly toward the door. 
ALVY (Clearing his throat) You-you play ... very well. 
ANNIE Oh, yeah?  So do you.  Oh, God, whatta- (Making sounds and laughing) whatta dumb thing to say, right?  I mean, you say it, "You play well," and right away ... I have to say well.  Oh, oh ... God, Annie. (She gestures with her hand) Well ... oh, well ... la-de-da, la-de-da, la-la. 
She turns around and moves toward the door. 
ALVY (Still looking over his shoulder) Uh ... you-you wanna lift? 
ANNIE (Turning and aiming her thumb over her shoulder) Oh, why-uh ... y-y-you gotta car? 
ALVY No, um ... I was gonna take a cab. 
ANNIE (Laughing) Oh, no, I have a car. 
ALVY You have a car? (Annie smiles, hands folded in front of her) So ... (Clears his throat) I don't understand why ... if you have a car, so then-then wh-why did you say "Do you have a car?"... like you wanted a lift? 
ANNIE I don't ... (Laughing) I don't ... Geez, I don't know, I've ... I wa- This ... yeah, I got this VW out there ... (Laughing and gesturing toward the door) What a jerk, yeah.  Would you like a lift? 
ALVY (Zipping up his bag) Sure.  W-w-w-which way yuh goin'? 
ANNIE Me?  Oh, downtown! 
ANNIE I live over here.  Oh, my God!  Look! There's a parking space! 
With brakes squealing, Annie turns the VW sharply into the parking spot. Annie and Alvy get out, Alvy looking over his shoulder as he leaves the car. 
ALVY That's okay, you ... we-we can walk to the curb from here. 
ANNIE Don't be funny. 
ALVY You want your tennis stuff? 
ANNIE Huh?  Oh ... yeah. 
ALVY You want your gear?  Here you go. 
Alvy reaches into the back of the car and takes out tennis equipment.  He hands her her things.  People pass by on the street. 
ANNIE (Laughing) Yeah, thanks.  Thanks a lot.  Well... 
ALVY (Sighing) Well, thanks, thank you.  You-you're a wonderful tennis player. 
ANNIE (Laughing) Oh. 
Alvy shakes hands with Annie. 
ALVY You're the worst driver I've ever seen in my life . . . that's including any place ... the worst ... Europe, United ... any place ... Asia. 
ANNIE (Laughing) Yeah. 
ALVY And I love what you're wearin'. 
Alvy touches the tie Annie is wearing around her neck. 
ANNIE Oh, you do?  Yeah?  Oh, well, it's uh ... this is, uh ... this tie is a present, from Grammy Hall. 
Annie flips the bottom of the tie. 
ALVY Who?  Grammy?  Grammy Hall? 
ANNIE (Laughing and nodding her head) Yeah, my grammy. 
ALVY You're jo- Whatta yuh kid- What did you do, grow up in a Norman Rockwell painting? 
ANNIE (Laughing) Yeah, I know. 
ALVY Your grammy! 
ANNIE I know, it's pretty silly, isn't it? 
ALVY Jesus, my-my grammy ... n-never gave gifts, you know.  She-she was	too busy getting raped by Cossacks. 
ANNIE (Laughing) Well ... 
ALVY Well ... thank you again. 
ANNIE Oh, yeah, yeah. 
ALVY I'll see yuh. 
ANNIE (Overlapping, gesturing) Hey, well, listen ... hey, you wanna come upstairs and, uh ... and have a glass of wine and something?  Aw, no, I mean ... I mean, you don't have to, you're probably late and everything else ... 
ALVY No, no, that'll be fine. I don't mind. Sure. 
ANNIE You sure? 
ALVY (Overlapping) No, I got time. 
ANNIE Okay. 
ALVY Sure, I got ... I got nothing, uh, nothing till my analyst's appointment. 
They move toward Annie's apartment building. 
ANNIE Oh, you see an analyst? 
ALVY Y-y-yeah, just for fifteen years. 
ANNIE Fifteen years? 
ALVY Yeah, uh, I'm gonna give him one more year and then I'm goin' to Lourdes. 
ANNIE Fifteen-aw, come on, you're . . . yeah, really? 
INT. ANNIE'S APARTMENT 
Alvy, standing, looks around the apartment.  There are lots of books, framed photographs on the white wall.  A terrace can be seen from the window.  He picks up a copy of Ariet, by Sylvia Platb, as Annie comes out of the kitchen carrying two glasses.  She hands them to Alvy. 
Again, Annie's thoughts pop on: He probably thinks I'm a yo-yo 
ALVY Photography's interesting, 'cause, you know, it's-it's a new art form, and a, uh, a set of aesthetic criteria have not emerged yet. 
And Alvy's: I wonder what she looks like naked? 
ANNIE Aesthetic criteria?  You mean, whether it's, uh, good photo or not? 
I'm not smart enough for him.  Hang in there 
ALVY The-the medium enters in as a condition of the art form itself.  That's- 
I don't know what I'm saying-she senses I'm shallow 
ANNIE Well, well, I ... to me-I ... I mean, it's-it's-it's all instinctive, you know.  I mean, I just try to uh, feel it, you know?  I try to get a sense of it and not think about it so much. 
God, I hope he doesn't turn out to be a shmuck like the others 
ALVY Still, still we- You need a set of aesthetic guide lines to put it in social perspective, I think. 
Christ, I sound like FM radio.  Relax 
They're quiet for a moment, holding wine glasses and sipping.  The sounds of distant traffic from the street can be heard on the terrace.  Annie, laughing, speaks first. 
ANNIE Well, I don't know.  I mean, I guess-I guess you must be sorta late, huh? 
ALVY You know, I gotta get there and begin whining soon ... otherwise I- Hey ... well, are you busy Friday night? 
ANNIE Me?  Oh, uh. (Laughing) No. 
ALVY (Putting his band on his forehead) Oh, I'm sorry, wait a minute, I have something.  Well, what about Saturday night? 
ANNIE (Nodding) Oh ... nothing.  Not-no, no! 
ALVY Oh, you ... you're very popular, I can see. 
ANNIE (Laughing) I know. 
ALVY Gee, boy, what do you have?  You have plague? 
ANNIE Well, I mean, I meet a lot of ... jerks, you know- 
ALVY Yeah, I meet a lotta jerks, too. 
ANNIE (Overlapping) -what I mean? 
ALVY I think that's, uh- 
ANNIE (Interrupting) But I'm thinking about getting some cats, you know, and then they ... Oh, wait a second-oh, no, no, I mean (Laughing) oh, shoot!  No, Saturday night I'm gonna- (Laughing) gonna sing.  Yeah. 
ALVY You're gonna sing?  Do you sing?  Well, no, it isn't (Overlapping) No kidding? (Overlapping) -this is my first time.  Oh, really?  Where? I'd like to come. (Laughing) Oh, no, no, no, no, no!  No, I'm interested! 
ANNIE (Laughing) Oh, no-I mean, I'm just a-auditioning sort of at club.  I don't- 
ALVY (Overlapping) No, so help me. 
ANNIE (Overlapping) -it's my first time. 
ALVY That's okay, 'cause I know exactly what that's like.  Listen- 
ANNIE (Interrupting) Yeah. 
ALVY (Overlapping) -you're gonna like night clubs, they're really a lotta fun. 
INT. NIGHT CLUB-NIGHT 
Annie stands on center stage with a microphone, a pianist behind her.  A Bright light is focused on her; the rest of the club is in darkness.  There are the typical sounds and movements of a nightclub audience: low conversation, curling smoke, breaking glass, microphone bum, moving chairs, waiters clattering trays, a ringing phone as Annie sings "It Had to Be You. 
EXT. CITY STREET-NIGHT. 
Alvy and Annie walk quickly down the sidewalk. 
ANNIE I was awful.  I'm so ashamed!  I can't sing. 
ALVY Oh, listen, so the audience was a tad restless. 
ANNIE Whatta you mean, a tad restless?  Oh, my God, I mean, they hated me. 
ALVY No, they didn't.  You have a wonderful voice. 
ANNIE No, I'm gonna quit! 
ALVY No, I'm not gonna letcha.  You have a great voice. 
ANNIE Really, do you think so, really? 
ANNIE (Overlapping) No. 
ALVY No, that was the most fun I've ever had without laughing. 
ANNIE (Laughing) Here, you want some? 
ALVY No, no, I-I-i, uh, I don't use any major hallucinogenics because I took a puff like five years ago at a party and 
ANNIE Yeah? 
ALVY -tried to take my pants off over my head ... (Annie laughs) ...  my ear. 
ANNIE Oh, I don't know, I don't really.  I don't do it very often, you know, just sort of, er ... relaxes me at first. 
ALVY M'hm. (He pushes himself up from the bed and looks down at Annie) You're not gonna believe this, but- 
ANNIE What?  What? 
CUT TO: 
INT. BOOKSTORE-DAY 
Annie and Alvy browsing in crowded bookstore.  Alvy, carrying two books, "Death and Western Thought" and "The Denial of Death", moves over to where Annie is looking. 
ALVY Hey? 
ANNIE H'm? 
ALVY I-I-I'm gonna buy you these books, I think, because I-I think you should read them.  You know, instead of that cat book. 
ANNIE (Looking at the books Alvy is bolding) That's, uh ... (Laughing) that's pretty serious stuff there. 
ALVY Yeah, 'cause I-I'm, you know, I'm, I'm obsessed with-with, uh, with death, I think.  Big- 
ANNIE (Overlapping) Yeah? 
ALVY -big subject with me, yeah. 
ANNIE Yeah? 
They move over to the cashier line. 
ALVY (Gesturing) I've a very pessimistic view of life. You should know this about me if we're gonna go out, you know. I-I-I feel that life is-is divided up into the horrible and the miserable. 
ANNIE M'hm. 
ALVY Those are the two categories ... 
ANNIE M'hm. 
ALVY ... you know, they're- The-the horrible would be like, uh, I don't know, terminal cases, you know? 
ANNIE M'hm. 
ALVY And blind people, crippled ... 
ANNIE Yeah. 
ALVY I don't-don't know how they get through life.  It's amazing to me. 
ANNIE M'hm. 
ALVY You know, and the miserable is everyone else.  That's-that's all.  So-so when you go through life you should be thankful that you're miserable, because that's- You're very lucky ... to be ... (Overlapping Annie's laughter) ... to be miserable. 
ANNIE U-huh. 
EXT. PARK-DAY 
It's a beautiful sunny day in Central Park.  People are sitting on benches, others strolling, some walking dogs.  One woman stands feeding cooing pigeons. Alvy's and Annie's voices are heard off screen as they observe the scene before them.  An older man and woman walk into view. 
ALVY Look, look at that guy. 
ANNIE M'hm. 
ALVY There's-there's-there's-there's Mr. When-in-the-Pink, Mr. Miami Beach, there, you know? (Over Annie's laughter) He's the latest! just came back from the gin-rummy farm last night. He placed third. 
ANNIE (Laughing) M'hm.  Yeah.  Yeah. 
The camera shows them sitting side by side relaxed on a bench. 
ALVY (Watching two men approach, one lighting a cigar) Look at these guys. 
ANNIE Yeah. 
ALVY Oh, that's hilarious.  They're back from Fire Island.  They're ... they're sort of giving it a chance-you know what I mean? 
ANNIE No, I don't think so.  No, I don't think they're gonna hate you at all.  On the contrary, I think- 
ALVY Yeah. 
ANNIE It's Easter.  You know, we'll have a nice dinner, we'll sit down and eat.  I think they're gonna really like you. 
EXT. ANNIE'S PARENTS' HOME-DAY 
The camera shows a neat two-story house surrounded by a well-manicured green lawn, then cuts to: 
INT. DINING ROOM. 
Alvy and the Halls are eating Easter dinner.  The sun is pouring through a big picture window, shining on a large, elegantly laid out table. Alvy sits, at one end,- rubbing his nose and chewing, the Halls flanking him on either side: Mr. and Mrs. Hall, Grammy, and Annie's brother, Duane. 
MOM HALL (Holding her wine glass) It's a nice ham this year, Mom. 
Grammy Hall takes a sip of her wine and nods. 
ANNIE (Smiling at Duane) Oh, yeah.  Grammy always does such a good job. 
DAD HALL (Chewing) A great sauce. 
ALVY It is. (Smacking his lips) It's dynamite ham. 
Grammy Hall stares down the table at Alvy; a look of utter dislike. Alvy tries not to notice. 
MOM HALL (To Dad Hall, smoothing her hair) We went over to the swap meet.  Annie, Gram and I. Got some nice picture frames. 
ANNIE We really had a good time. 
Grammy continues to stare at Alvy; he is now dressed in the long black coat and hat of the Orthodox Jew, complete with mustache and heard. 
MOM HALL (Lighting a cigarette and turning to Alvy) Ann tells us that you've been seeing a psychiatrist for fifteen years. 
ALVY (Setting down his glass and coughing) Yes.  I'm making excellent progress. Pretty soon when I lie down on his couch, I won't have to wear the lobster bib. 
Mom Hall reacts by sipping from her glass and frowning.  Grammy continues to stare. 
DAD HALL Duane and I went out to the boat basin. 
DUANE We were caulkin' holes all day. 
DAD HALL Yeah. (Laughing) Randolph Hunt was drunk, as usual. 
MOM HALL Oh, that Randolph Hunt.  You remember Randy Hunt, Annie.  He was in the choir with you. 
ANNIE Oh, yes, yes. 
Alvy, leaning his elbow on the table, looks out toward the camera. 
ALVY (To the audience) I can't believe this family. (Making chewing sounds) Annie's mother.  She really's beautiful. And they're talkin' swap meets and boat basins, and the old lady at the end of the table (Pointing to Grammy) is a classic Jew hater.  And, uh, they, they realty look American, you know, very healthy and ... like they never get sick or anything.  Nothing like my family.  You know, the two are like oil and water. 
The screen splits in half - on the right is Alvy's family - his mother, father, aunt and uncle-busily eating at the crowded kitchen table.  They eat quickly and interrupt one another loudly.  On the left the Halls in their dining room. Both dialogues overlap, juxtaposed. 
ALVY'S FATHER Let 'im drop dead!  Who needs his business?! 
ALVY'S MOTHER His wife has diabetes! 
ALVY'S FATHER Di-diabetes?  Is that any excuse? Diabetes? 
ALVY'S UNCLE The man is fifty years old and doesn't have a substantial job. 
ALVY'S AUNT (Putting more meat on her husband's plate) Is that a reason to steal from his father? 
ALVY'S UNCLE Whatta you talkin' about?  You don't know what you're talking about. 
ALVY'S AUNT Yes, I know what I'm talking about. 
ALVY'S MOTHER (Interrupting) George, defend him! 
ALVY'S UNCLE (Over Alvy's father's muttering) No Moskowitz he had a coronary. 
ALVY'S AUNT You don't say. 
ALVY'S MOTHER We fast. 
MOM HALL Stupid Thelma Poindexter ... to the Veterans Hospital. 
DAD HALL My God, he's the new president of the El Regis.  Let me tell you, the man is somethin' else. 
MOM HALL That's Jack's wife.  We used to make that outta raisins. 
ANNIE Oh, yes, that's right.  Did you see the new play? 
MOM HALL Oh, you remember her, Annie. 
ANNIE That is the worst kind of paranoia. 
ALVY Yeah-well, I didn't start out spying. I-I thought I'd surprise yuh.  Pick you up after school. 
ANNIE Yeah-well, you wanted to keep the relationship flexible, remember? It's your phrase. 
ALVY Oh, stop it.  But you were having an affair with your college professor. That jerk that teaches that incredible crap course "Contemporary Crisis in Western Man"! 
ANNIE "Existential Motifs in Russian Literature"! You're really close. 
ALVY What's the difference?  It's all mental masturbation. 
ANNIE (Stopping for a moment) Oh, well, now we're finally getting to a subject you know something about! 
She walks away. 
ALVY (Catching up to her) Hey, don't knock masturbation!  It's sex with someone I love. 
ANNIE (Continuing to walk quickly) We're not having an affair.  He's married. He just happens to think I'm neat. 
ALVY (Still walking next to her) "Neat"!  There's that- What are you-twelve years old?  That's one o' your Chippewa Falls expressions!  "He thinks I'm neat." 
ANNIE Who cares?  Who cares? 
ALVY Next thing you know he'll find you keen and peachy, you know?  Next thing you know he's got his hand on your ass! 
They both stop in the middle of the street. 
ANNIE You've always had hostility toward David ever since I mentioned him! 
ALVY David?  You call your teacher David? 
ANNIE It's his name. 
ALVY Well, listen, that's, a nice bi-it's a biblical name.  Right?  W-What does he call you?  Bathsheba? 
He walks away. 
ANNIE (Calling after him) Alvy!  Alvy!  You're the one who never wanted to make a real commitment.  You don't think I'm smart enough!  We had that argument just last month, or don't ou remember that day? 
CUT TO: 
INT. KITCHEN. 
Alvy is at the sink washing dishes as the screen cuts to the scene of last month's argument.  Annie's voice is heard. 
ANNIE (Off screen) I'm home! 
ALVY (Turning) Oh, yeah?  How'd it go? 
ANNIE (Comes into the kitchen and puts down a bag of groceries on the kitchen table) Oh, it was ... (Laughing) really weird.  But she's a very nice woman. 
ALVY Yeah? 
ANNIE And I didn't have to lie down on the couch, Alvy, she had me sitting up.  So I told her about-about the-the family and about my feelings toward men and about my relationship with my brother. 
ALVY M'm. 
ANNIE And then she mentioned penis envy ... Did you know about that? 
ALVY Me?  I'm-I'm one of the few males who suffers from that, so, so ... you know. 
ANNIE M'hm. 
ALVY G-go on, I'm interested. 
ANNIE Well, she said that I was very guilty about my impulses toward marriage, and-and children. 
ALVY M'hm. 
ANNIE And then I remembered when I was a kid how I accidentally saw my parents making love. 
ALVY Tsch.  Rea- All this happened in the first hour? 
ANNIE M'hm. 
ALVY That's amazing. I-I-I ... I've been goin' for fifteen years, I-you know, I don't got ... nothing like that in- 
ANNIE Oh, I told her my dream and then I cried. 
ALVY You cried?  I've never once cried. Fantastic ... 
ANNIE (Taking groceries from the bag) Yeah. 
ALVY I whine. I-I-I sit and I whine. 
YOUNG MAN And I'm exactly the same way. 
ALVY I see.  Well, that's very interesting. So you've managed to work out something, huh? 
YOUNG MAN Right. 
YOUNG WOMAN Yeah. 
ALVY Oh, well, thanks very much for talking to me. 
He continues to walk past some other passersby and moves into the street. A mounted policeman comes by and stops near him. Alvy looks at the horse, as if to speak. 
ALVY'S VOICE-OVER You know, even as a kid I always went for the wrong women.  I think that's my problem.  When my mother took me to see Snow White, everyone fell in love with Snow White.  I immediately fell for the Wicked Queen. 
The scene dissolves into a sequence from the animated Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.  The Wicked Queen, resembling Annie, sits in the palace before her mirror.  Alvy, as a cartoon figure, sits beside her, arms crossed in front of him. 
WICKED QUEEN We never have any fun anymore. 
CARTOON FIGURE ALVY How can you say that? 
WICKED QUEEN Why not?  You're always leaning on me to improve myself. 
CARTOON FIGURE ALVY You're just upset.  You must be getting your period. 
WICKED QUEEN I don't get a period!  I'm a cartoon character.  Can't I be upset once in a while? 
Rob, as a cartoon figure, enters and sits down on the other side of the Wicked Queen. 
CARTOON FIGURE ROB Max, will you forget about Annie?  I know lots of women you can date. 
CARTOON FIGURE ALVY I don't wanna go out with any other women. 
CARTOON FIGURE ROB Max, have I got a girl for you.  You are going to love her.  She's a reporter- 
The cartoon figures of Alvy and Rob walk past the Wicked Queen; the screen dissolves into the interior of a concert ball.  Rob's voice carries over from the cartoon scene as the screen shows Alvy with the female reporter.  It's very crowded, noisy; policeman and reporters are everywhere. Alvy stands with his hands in his pockets, watching the commotion. 
CARTOON FIGURE ROB'S VOICE-OVER -for Rolling Stone. 
FEMALE REPORTER I think there are more people here to see the Maharishi than there were to see the Dylan concert.  I covered the Dylan concert ... which gave me chills. Especially when he sang "She takes just like a woman And she makes love just like a woman Yes, she does And she aches just like a woman But she breaks just like a little girl." (They move toward the aisles as a guard holds up his hands to stop them) Up to that I guess the most charismatic event I covered was Mick's Birthday when the Stones played Madison Square Garden. 
ALVY (Laughing) Man, that's great.  That's just great. 
REPORTER You catch Dylan? 
ALVY (Coughing) Me?  No, no. I-I couldn't make it that ni- My-my raccoon had hepatitis. 
REPORTER You have a raccoon? 
ALVY (Gesturing) Tsch, a few. 
REPORTER The only word for this is trans-plendid. It's trans-plendid. 
ALVY I can think of another word. 
REPORTER He's God!  I mean, this man is God!  He's got millions of followers who would crawl all the way across the world just to touch the hem of his garment. 
ALVY Really?  It must be a tremendous hem. 
REPORTER I'm a Rosicrucian myself. 
ALVY Are you? 
REPORTER Yeah. 
ALVY I can't get with any religion that advertises in Popular Mechanics.  Look- (The Maharisbi, a small, chunky man, walks out of the men's room, huge bodyguards flanking him while policemen bold back the crowds) there's God coming outta the men's room. 
REPORTER It's unbelievably trans-plendid!  I was at the Stones concert in Altamount when they killed that guy, remember? 
ALVY Yeah, were yuh?  I was-I was at an Alice Cooper thing where six people were rushed to the hospital with bad vibes. 
INT. ALVY'S BEDROOM-NIGHT 
The reporter is sitting up in bed, lighted cigarette in her hand.  Alvy, lying next to her, rubs his eyes and puts on his eyeglasses. 
REPORTER (Looking down at him) I hope you don't mind that I took so long to finish. 
ALVY (Sighing) Oh, no, no, don't be ... tsch ... don't be silly.  You know, (Yawning) I'm startin' it-I'm startin' to get some feeling back in my jaw now. 
REPORTER Oh, sex with you is really a kafkaesque experience. 
ALVY Oh, tsch, thank you.  H'm. 
REPORTER I mean that as a compliment. 
ALVY (Making sounds) I think-I think there's too much burden placed on the orgasm, you know, to make up for empty areas in life. 
ANNIE Yeah? 
ALVY Two ... Yeah.  Lotta, lotta trouble. There's two of 'em. 
Alvy starts walking down the ball again, Annie following. 
ANNIE Two? 
ALVY (Opening a closet door) Yep.  I didn't think it was that big, but it's a major spider.  You got a broom or something with a- 
ANNIE Oh, I-I left it at your house. 
ALVY (Overlapping) -snow shovel or anything or something. 
ANNIE (Overlapping) I think I left it there, I'm sorry. 
Reaching up into the closet, Alvy takes out a covered tennis racquet. 
ALVY (Holding the racquet) Okay, let me have this. 
ANNIE Well, what are you doing ... what are you doing with- 
ALVY Honey, there's a spider in your bathroom the size of a Buick. 
He walks into the bathroom, Annie looking after him. 
ANNIE Well, okay.  Oooh. 
Alvy stands in the middle of the bathroom, tennis racquet in one band, rolled magazine in the other.  He looks over at the shelf above the sink and picks up a small container.  He holds it out, shouting off screen to Annie. 
ALVY Hey, what is this?  You got black soap? 
ANNIE (Off screen) It's for my complexion. 
ALVY Whatta-whatta yuh joining a minstrel show? Geez. (Alvy turns and starts swapping the racquet over the shelf, knocking down articles and breaking glass) Don't worry! (He continues to swat the racquet all over the bathroom.  He finally moves out of the room, hands close to his body.  He walks into the other room, where Annie is sitting in a corner of her bed leaning against the wall) I did it!  I killed them both.  What-what's the matter?  Whatta you- (Annie is sobbing, her band over her face) -whatta you sad about?  You- What'd you want me to do?  Capture 'em and rehabilitate 'em? 
ANNIE (Sobbing and taking Alvy's arm) Oh, don't go, okay?  Please. ALVY (Sitting down next to her) Whatta you mean, don't go?  Whatta-whatta -what's the matter?  Whatta you expecting -termites?  What's the matter? 
ANNIE (Sobbing) Oh, uh, I don't know.  I miss you.  Tsch. 
She beats her fist on the bed.  Reacting, Alvy puts his arm around her shoulder and leans back against the wall. 
ALVY Oh, Jesus, really? 
ANNIE (Leaning on his shoulder) Oh, yeah.  Oh. (They kiss) Oh!  Alvy? 
ALVY What? 
He touches her face gently as she wipes tears from her face. 
ANNIE Was there somebody in your room when I called you? 
ALVY W-w-whatta you mean? 
ANNIE I mean was there another- I thought I heard a voice. 
ALVY Oh, I had the radio on. 
ANNIE Yeah? 
ALVY I'm sorry.  I had the television set ... I had the television- 
ANNIE Yeah. 
Alvy pulls her to him and they kiss again. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ALVY'S BED 
Alvy is lying in bed next to Annie, who is leaning on her elbow looking down at him.  He rubs her arms and she smiles. 
ANNIE Alvy, let's never break up again.  I don't wanna be apart. 
ALVY Oh, no, no, I think we're both much too mature for something like that. 
ANNIE Living together hasn't been so bad, has it? 
ALVY It's all right for me, it's been terrific, you know?  Better than either one of my marriages.  See, 'cause. . . 'cause there's just something different about you.  I don't know what it is, but it's great. 
ANNIE (Snickering) You know I think that if you let me, maybe I could help you have more fun, you know? I mean, I know it's hard and ... Yeah. 
ALVY I don't know. 
ANNIE Alvy, what about ... what if we go away this weekend, and we could- 
ROB (Pointing) Hey, Max!  Who's that? 
As the three friends watch Alvy's old living room, the scene has suddenly shifted.  A huge crowd stands around the room, laughing, eating, chatting and vibrating with the turns of the roller-coaster ride. 
ALVY It-it-it's the welcome-home party in nineteen forty-five, for my cousin Herbie. 
ADULT ALVY (Pointing) Look, look, there's-there's that one over there, that's Joey Nichols, he was my- (Young Alvy stands next to Joey Nichols, who's sitting in one of the easy chairs.  They smile at each other; people and noise all around) -father's friend.  He was always bothering me when I was a kid. 
JOEY Joey Nichols. (Laughing) See.  Nichols.  See, Nichols! (Joey shows young Alvy his cuff links and a tie pin, which are made from nickels, as Alvy stands with hands on hips, unconcerned. Joey then slaps his band to his forehead and puts a nickel on his forehead) Yuh see, nickels!  You can always remember my name, just think of Joey Five Cents. (Laughing) That's me.  Joey Five Cents! 
Joey grabs Alvy's cheeks and pinches them. 
YOUNG ALVY (Turning away) What an asshole! 
A group of women stands near a buffet table eating and listening to Alvy mother and her sister, Tessie, and a young girl, as the three friends watch. 
ALVY'S MOTHER I was always the sister with good common sense.  But Tessie was always the one with personality.  When she was younger, they all wanted to marry Tessie. 
She touches Tessie's shoulder.  Tessie starts to laugh. 
ADULT ALVY (Pointing, to Rob) Do you believe that, Max?  Tessie Moskowitz had the personality.  She's the life of the ghetto, no doubt. 
ALVY'S MOTHER (To the young girl) She was once a great beauty. 
Tessie nods her head "yes." 
ROB Tessie, they say you were the sister with personality. 
TESSIE (Addressing the young girl) I was a great beauty. 
ROB Uh, how did this personality come about? 
TESSIE (Grabbing the young girl's cheek) I was very charming. 
ROB There were many men interested in you? 
TESSIE (To the young girl) Oh, I was quite a lively dancer. 
Tessie gyrates back and forth imitating a dancer while Annie and the adult Alvy lean on each other laughing. 
ROB (Laughing) That's pretty hard to believe. 
EXT. STREET. 
Alvy and Annie walk contentedly down a street; Alvy's arm is draped around Annie.  People walk by them on the street as they move toward their apartment building. 
ANNIE Well, I had a really good day, you know that?  It was just a real fine way to spend my birthday. 
ALVY Ah?  Oh, well, your birthday's not till tomorrow, honey, I hate to tell yuh. 
ANNIE Yeah, but it's real close. 
ALVY Yeah, but no presents till midnight. 
ANNIE (Laughing) Oh, darn it. 
INT. APARTMENT 
Annie and Alvy sit on the sofa.  Annie's unwrapping a gift while Alvy watches. 
ANNIE (Making sounds) This is- (Making sounds) Huh? 
She pulls out flimsy black lingerie from the box. 
ALVY Happy birthday. 
ANNIE What is this? Is this a...Present? (Laughing) Are you kidding? 
ALVY Yeah, hey, why don't yuh try it on? 
ANNIE Uh, yeah, uh ... t-t-this is more like a present for you, yeah, but it's- 
ALVY Try it ... it'll add years to our sex life. 
ANNIE (Looking up at Alvy and laughing) Uh huh.  Yeah.  Forget it. 
Alvy leans over and hands her another box as she puts down the lingerie. 
ALVY Here's a real present. 
ANNIE (Opening the gift) What... huh? 
ALVY Check it out. 
ANNIE Oh, yeah?  What is this, anyway? (continuing) Let me see.  Okay, let's... oooh, God! (She takes out a watch from the box) Oh, you knew I wanted this ... (Laughing) God, it's terrific, God! 
TONY Oh, well, I-if it's inconvenient, eh, we can't do it now ... that's fine, too.  W-w-w-we'll do it another time. 
ANNIE Hey- 
TONY Maybe if you're on the Coast, we'll get together and ... and we'll meet there. 
He shakes hands with Annie. 
ANNIE (Reacting) Oh. 
TONY It was a wonderful set. 
ANNIE Oh, gosh. 
TONY (Smiling) I really enjoyed it. (Looking at Alvy) Nice to have metcha.  Good night. 
ENTOURAGE Bye-bye. 
ANNIE Nice to see you ... bye.  Yeah.  Bye. 
She turns and looks at Alvy. 
ALVY (Reacting) What's ... you ... well, what's the matter, You w-wanna go to that party? 
ANNIE (Looking down at her hands, then up at Alvy) I don't know, I thought it might be kind of fun, you know what I mean, it'd be nice to meet some new people. 
ALVY (Sighing) I'm just not ... you know, I don't think I could take a mellow eve- 'cause I-I don't respond well to mellow, you know what I mean, I-I have a tendency to ... if I get too mellow, I-I ripen and then rot.  You know, and it's-it's not good for my ... (Making sounds) 
ANNIE All right, all right, you don't wanna go to the party, so uh, whatta you wanna do? 
INT. MOVIE THEATER. 
The screen is projecting the beginning of "The Sorrow and the Pity": a street filled with fleeing cars, belongings tied on top and piled in the back seats. Subtitles pop on: 
"The Jewish warmongers and Parisian plutocrats tried to flee with their gold and jewels" 
as a narrator explains in German. 
CUT TO. 
Split screen: Annie and her psychiatrist on the left; Alvy and his on the right. Annie, talking, sits in a white molded chair, as does her doctor. The office is very modern: stark, white and chrome. Alvy, talking to his psychiatrist, lies on a deep leather sofa, the doctor seated away from him. This office looks more like a well-worn den: bookcases overflowing, dark wood. The dialogue is separated in each screen, though no one talks simultaneously. 
ANNIE (To her doctor) That day in Brooklyn was the last day I remember really having a great time. 
ALVY (To his doctor) Well, we never have any laughs anymore, is the problem. 
ANNIE Well, I've been moody and dissatisfied. 
ALVY'S PSYCHIATRIST How often do you sleep together? 
ANNIE'S PSYCHIATRIST Do you have sex often? 
ALVY Hardly ever.  Maybe three times a week. 
ANNIE Constantly!  I'd say three times a week. Like the other night, Alvy wanted to have sex. 
ALVY She would not sleep with me the other night, you know, it's- 
ANNIE And ... I don't know ... I mean, six months ago I-I woulda done it.  I woulda done it, just to please him. 
ALVY I mean ... I tried everything, you know, I-I-I put on soft music and my-my red light bulb, and ... 
ANNIE But the thing is-I mean, since our discussions here, I feel I have a right to my own feelings.  I think you woulda been happy because ... uh, uh, I really asserted myself. 
ALVY The incredible thing about it is, I'm paying for her analysis and she's making progress and I'm getting screwed. 
ANNIE I don't know, though, I feel so guilty because Alvy is paying for it, so, you know, so I do feel guilty if I don't go to bed with him.  But if I do go to bed with him, it's like I'm going against my own feelings.  I don't know I-I can't win. 
ALVY (Simultaneously, with Annie) You know ... it's getting expensive ...my analyst ... for her analyst.  She- she's making progress and I'm not making any progress.  Her progress is defeating my progress. 
ANNIE (Simultaneously, with Alvy) Sometimes I think-sometimes I think I should just live with a woman. 
CUT TO: 
INT. APARTMENT 
Alvy and Annie sit close together on the sofa in some friends' apartment. Their friends, another couple, stand behind the sofa in the background. Excited, they talk almost all at once. 
WOMAN FRIEND Wow, I don't believe it ... you mean to tell me you guys have never snorted coke? 
ANNIE Well, I always wanted to try, you know, but, uh, Alvy, uh ... he's very down on it. 
ALVY Hey, don't put it on me.  You kn- Wh-what is it, I don't wanna put a wad of white powder in my nose 'cause the-the nasal membranes ... 
They all start talking at once. 
ALVY Right-well, Santa Claus will have sunstroke. 
ROB Max, there's no crime, there's no mugging. 
ALVY There's no economic crime, you know, but there's-there's ritual, religious- cult murders, you know, there's wheat- germ killers out here. 
ROB While you're out here, Max, I want you to see some of my TV show.  And we're invited to a big Christmas party. 
They continue driving, now in a less residential area, passing a hot-dog stand. "Tail-Pup" concession; people mill about eating hot dogs. 
VOICES (Singing, louder now) Remember Christ our Savior Was born on Christmas day To save us all ... from Satan's power As we were gone astray. 
They pass a theater, the marquee announcing "House of Exorcism Messiah of Evil. Rated R.  Starts at 7:15." 
INT. TV CONTROL ROOM. 
Several monitors line the wall in front of an elaborate console.  Rob and Alvy, along with Charlie, the technician, stand in the small room watching the screens showing Rob as a television star on a situation comedy.  They chatter, analyzing the footage, over the sounds of the taped television comedy. 
ALVY (Overlapping the chatter) Oh. 
ROB Look, now, Charlie, give me a big laugh here. 
ROB ON TV SCREEN A limousine to the track breakdown? 
ROB (Watching) A little bigger. 
TV monitors go black as the technician turns of the monitors to fix the laugh track. 
ALVY Do you realize how immoral this all is? 
ROB Max, I've got a hit series. 
ALVY Yeah, I know; but you're adding fake laughs. 
Technicians turn the monitors back on, showing Rob on the screen with another character, Arnie. 
ARNIE Oh, I'm sorry. 
ROB ON TV SCREEN Arnie. 
ARNIE Yeah. 
ROB (Turning to the technician) Give me a tremendous laugh here, Charlie. 
ALVY Look, uh ... 
Loud laughter from the TV monitors. 
ROB (To Alvy) We do the show live in front of an audience. 
ALVY Great, but nobody laughs at it 'cause your jokes aren't funny. 
ROB Yeah, well, that's why this machine is dynamite. 
ROB ON TV SCREEN You better lie down.  You've been in the sun too long. 
ROB (To the technician) Yeah ... uh, now give me a like a medium-size chuckle here ... and then a big hand. 
The sounds of laughter and applause are heard from the TV. 
ALVY (Removing his glasses and rubbing his face) Is there booing on there? 
The monitors show a woman on the screen. 
WOMAN We were just gonna fix you up with my cousin Dolores. 
ALVY (Overlapping the TV) Oh, Max, I don't feel well. 
ROB What's the matter? 
ALVY I don't know, I just got-I got very dizzy... (Coughing) I feel dizzy, Max. 
ROB Well, sit down. 
ALVY (Sitting down) Oh, Jesus. 
ROB You all right? 
ALVY I don't know, I mean, I- 
ROB (Crouching before Alvy, looking at him) You wanna lie down? 
ALVY No, no-my, you know, my stomach felt queasy all morning.  I just started getting ... 
ROB How about a ginger ale? 
ALVY I think he has a little thing for Annie. 
ROB Oh, no, no, that's bullshit, Max.  He goes with that girl over there. 
ALVY Where? 
Rob nods his head toward a tall woman dressed all in white conversing with a group of people close-by. 
ROB The one with the V.P.L. 
ALVY V.P.L.? 
ROB Visible panty line.  Max, she is gorgeous. 
ALVY Yeah, she's a ten, Max, and that's great for you because you're -you're used to twos, aren't you? 
ROB There are no twos, Max. 
ALVY Yeah, you're used to the kind with the- with the shopping bags walking through Central Park with the surgical masks on muttering. 
ROB M'hm. 
ALVY And ... uh- 
ROB (Interrupting) How do you like this couple, Max? 
A couple moves over toward Rob and Alvy.  The man's arm is around the woman; they stand very close.  In the background, Annie and Tony are still talking. 
ROB And I think they just came back from Masters and Johnson. 
ALVY Yeah, intensive care ward. (Watching the woman in white) My God-hey, Max, I think she's ... I think she's giving me the eye. 
As Rob and Alvy observe the guests, the woman in white starts walking toward them. 
ROB If she comes over here, Max, my brain is going to turn into guacamole. 
ALVY I'll handle it.  I'll handle it.  Hi. 
GIRL IN WHITE You're Alvy Singer, right?  Didn't we meet at EST? 
ALVY (Reacting) EST?  No, no, I was never to est. 
GIRL IN WHITE Then how can you criticize it? 
ALVY Oh. 
ROB Oh, he-he didn't say anything. 
ALVY (Laughing) No, no, I came out here to get some shock therapy, but there was an energy crisis, so I ... He's my-my food taster. Have you two met? 
ROB (Shaking his head) Hi.  How do you do. 
GIRL IN WHITE Do you taste to see if the food's poisoned? 
ALVY Yeah, he's crazy. 
The girl in white laughs. 
ALVY (Looking at Rob and the girl) Hey, you guys are wearin' white. It must be in the stars. 
ROB Yeah.  Right. 
ALVY Uri Geller must be on the premises someplace. 
ROB We're gonna operate together. 
Rob and the girl walk of together as the camera moves in on Tony and Annie standing by the buffet table. 
TONY We just need about six weeks, in about six weeks we could cut a whole album. 
ANNIE I don't know, this is strange to me, you know. 
TONY just ... that's all you need.  You can come and stay here. 
ANNIE Oh. 
TONY There's a whole wing in this house. 
ANNIE (Laughing) Oh yeah, stay here?  U-huh. 
TONY You can have it to use.  Why-why are you smiling? 
ANNIE (Laughing) I don't know.  I don't know. 
She picks up an hors doeuvre. 
ANNIE (Adjusting her sunglasses) Oh, Alvy, come on. 
ALVY Why?  You wanna live out here all year? It's like living in Munchkin Land. 
ANNIE (Looking around) Well, whatta you mean?  I mean, it's perfectly fine out here.  I mean, Tony's very nice and, uh, well, I meet people and I go to parties and-and we play tennis. I mean, that's ... that's a very big step for me, you know?  I mean ... (Reacting, Alvy looks down at his hands, then up) I'm able to enjoy people more. 
ALVY (Sadly) So whatta you ... You're not gonna come back to New York? 
ANNIE (Smiling) What's so great about New York?  I mean, it's a dying city.  You read "Death in Venice." 
ALVY Hey, you didn't read "Death in Venice" till I bought it for yuh. 
ANNIE That's right, that's right. (Still smiling) You only gave me books with the word "death" in the titles. 
ALVY (Nodding his head and gesturing) That's right, 'cause it's an important issue. 
ANNIE Alvy, you're incapable of enjoying life, you know that?  I mean, your life is New York City.  You're just this person. You're like this island unto yourself. 
ALVY (Toying with his car keys) I can't enjoy anything unless I ... unless everybody is.  I-you know, if one guy is starving someplace, that's ... you know, I-I ... it puts a crimp in my evening. (Looking down at his hands, sadly) So wanna get married or what? 
ANNIE (Seriously) No. We're friends.  I wanna remain friends. 
ALVY (In disbelief) Okay. (Louder, to the waitress) Check, please.  Can I -can I ... Can I ... Can I ... 
ANNIE (Interrupting) You're mad, aren't you? 
ALVY (Shaking his head) No. (Then nodding) Yes, of course I'm mad, because you love me, I know that. 
ANNIE Alvy, I can't say that that's true at this point in my life.  I really just can't say that that's true.  I mean, you know how wonderful you are.  I mean, you know ... you're the reason that I got outta my room and that I was able to sing, and-and-and, you know, get more in touch with my feelings and all that crap.  Anyway, look, I don't wanna- Listen, listen, listen, uh (Laughing) h'h, so whatta you up to anyway, huh? 
ALVY (Shrugging his shoulders) The usual, you know. Uh, tryin't'write. I'm workin' on a play. (Sighing) Jesus.  So whatta yuh saying?  That you're not comin' back to New York with me? 
He nods his head in disbelief. 
ANNIE (Nodding) No! (Pauses) Look, I gotta go. 
She starts to rise. 
ALVY You mean that ... (He gets up and starts following her past diners at other tables) I-I-I-I flew three thousand miles to see you. 
ANNIE I'm late. 
ALVY Air miles, you know.  I mean, you know what that does to my stomach? 
They move down the steps of the cafe' toward the parking lot. 
ANNIE If you must know, it's a hectic time for Tony.  The Grammys are tonight. 
ALVY The what? 
ANNIE The Grammys.  He's got a lotta records up for awards. 
ALVY You mean they give awards for that kind o' music? 
ANNIE Oh! 
ALVY I thought just earplugs. 
Annie gets into her car.  Alvy moves over to his rented convertible. 
ANNIE Just forget it, Alvy, okay?  Let's just forget the conversation. 
She closes the door, starts the motor. 
ALVY (Yelling after her) Awards! They do nothing but give out awards!  I can't believe it.  Greatest, greatest fascist dictator, Adolf Hitler! 
Annie drives away. Alvy gets behind the wheel, starts the motor. Putting the car in gear, he inadvertently moves forward, hitting a bunch of trash cans with a loud crash. Putting the car in reverse, Alvy notices a beige car that has just turned into the parking lot. For a brief moment, the screen shows a flashback of the bumper-car ride at the Brooklyn amusement park.  Alvy's father is on the Platform directing traffic; young Alvy is in a small car bumping others right and left.  Alvy, hack in the parking lot, backs up his convertible, purposefully smashing the side of the beige car as another flashback of bumper- car ride appears, this time-as, Alvy's father directs traffic-a Marine in a small car bits the back end of a soldier's car, and Alvy, back in the parking lot, moves his car over to another parked car and bits it full force. 
Another flashback appears. people in the small cars really racing around the track now, bumping into one another over and over again, Alvy's father directing the flow, as the film cuts back to the parking lot, where Alvy reverses the convertible and rams it into the front end of yet another car. 
He sits behind the wheel as people rush out of various cars and as sirens start blaring, coming closer and closer, stopping finally as a motorcycle cop gets off beside Alvy's car and walks over to him. 
ALVY (Getting out of the car) Officer, I know what you're gonna say. I'm-I'm not a great driver, you know, I-I have some problems with-with-with- 
OFFICER (Interrupting) May I see your license, please? 
ALVY Sure. (Searching, he finally fishes his license out of his pocket) just don't-don't get angry, you know what I mean?  'Cause I-I have - I have my-my license here.  You know, it's a rented car.  And I've ... 
He drops the license and it falls to the ground. 
OFFICER Don't give me your life story (Looking at the piece of paper on the ground) -just pick up the license. 
ALVY Pick up the license.  You have to ask nicely 'cause I've had an extremely rough day.  You know, my girl friend- 
OFFICER (Interrupting) Just give me the license, please. 
