"Antz", unknown draft 
A N T Z 
CHARACTERS                                            VOICES 
"Z"...............................................WOODY ALLEN "WASP #1".........................................DAN AYKROYD "WASP #2".........................................JANE CURTIN "GEN. FORMICA"...................................DANNY GLOVER "MANDIBLE".......................................GENE HACKMAN "AZTECA".......................................JENNIFER LOPEZ "DRUNK SCOUT"....................................JOHN MAHONEY "WEAVER"...................................SYLVESTER STALLONE "PRINCESS BALA"..................................SHARON STONE "QUEEN"..........................................MERYL STREEP "CARPENTER"................................CHRISTOPHER WALKEN 
Z (O.S.) (over a dark screen) All my life, I've lived and worked in the big city... 
We see: 
EXT. AN ANT MOUND - DAY 
The camera swoops towards the entrance, then dives inside, past a couple of tough-looking soldier ants who stand at the gates of the ant colony like insect bouncers...into an access tunnel that snakes this way and that, past a row of ants plodding along... 
...and into the MAIN CHAMBER of the colony, a huge, teeming vista that seems to stretch away forever, filled with ants rushing here and there on their business.  We see -- a "traffic cop" directing foot traffic, waving his arms like crazy so both sides move at once -- a column of soldier ants marching along in formation -- a chain of ants letting down a matchbox elevator filled with workers. 
Z (V.O.) ...which is kind of a problem, since I've always felt uncomfortably in crowds. 
INT. MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR'S OFFICE - DAY 
We join Z, a worker ant with issues.  He's lying on a couch, recounting his woes. 
Z I feel...isolated.  Different.  I've got abandonment issues.  My father flew away when I was just a larva. My mother didn't have much time for me...when you have five million siblings, it's difficult to get attention. (pause) I feel physically inadequate -- I've never been able to lift more than ten times my own weight.  Sometimes I think I'm just not cut out to be a worker.  But I don't have any other options.  I was assigned to trade school when I was just a grub.  The whole system just...makes me feel...insignificant. 
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR (enthusiastic) Terrific!  You should feel insignificant! 
For the first time, we see the ant MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR. He's a mixture of Tony Robbins and Ron Popiel (the hyperactive late-night TV huckster, and founder of "Ronco"). 
Z ...I should? 
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR (hopping around enthusiastically) YES!!!  You know, people ask me, "Doctor, why are you always happy?" And I tell them it's mind over matter.  I don't mind that I don't matter!  Do you get it?  Do you get it? 
Z gives a fake smile. 
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR (incredibly "up") Z, we're part of the fastest growing species in the whole world! 
The counsellor rolls down a chart from the wall.  An arrow shows ant population going up, up, up. 
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR Ask me why we're so successful. 
Z Why are we so successful? 
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR I'm glad you asked me that question! 
The motivational counsellor opens some blinds...and we see a vista of the ant-filled chamber below. 
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR What do you see out there? 
Z ...Ants... 
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR Right!  Ants!  Millions of creatures, each with his assigned task, all pulling together! 
Down below, we see a group of ants carrying a boulder up an incline.  One worker ants slips, and the boulder rolls down, crushing his leg.  The other ants rush over -- it looks like they're going to help their fallen comrade, but instead, they climb right over him, and pick up the boulder, continuing with their task. 
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR You see?  Being an ant is being able to say, "Hey -- I'm meaningless, you're meaningless." 
CARPENTER ...Yes, sir. 
GENERAL FORMICA What have they got to complain about? Three square meals a day... 
CARPENTER Actually, sir, we've cut them down to three roughly rectangular meals a week. 
FORMICA Don't give me statistics, Carpenter. I know what I'm talking about.  DOORS! 
Formica and Carpenter have reached the top of the staircase. There, the two guard ants on either side of the massive throne room doors pull them open -- and one door hinge SQUEAKS. 
FORMICA (to guard ant, while passing) Oil that, soldier. 
INT. THRONE ROOM - DAY 
The QUEEN is on her throne, her huge abdomen sprawled behind her. 
QUEEN Ah!  General Formica. 
Formica salutes and marches to her, Carpenter behind him. 
Note:  Throughout this scene, the Queen is giving birth repeatedly.  Each birth is accompanied by a herald playing a short "Happy Birthday" fanfare on his trumpet.  Mid-wife ants bring each baby to the Queen for inspection, who COOS a few words.  The midwives put the babies on a moving bassinet- line, powered by ants on a treadmill. 
QUEEN General, the severe food shortage that faces the colony...pains me. The thought of any of my children going hungry... (she shudders; then, to baby) Who's the cutest widdle worker?  You are!  Yes, you!  Don't forget to brush your teeth! (to mid-wife) Ship 'er out. (back to Formica) What steps are you taking to remedy the situation? 
FORMICA We are launching a major offensive to expand our foraging territory... 
QUEEN Yes, what else? 
FORMICA Please don't worry, your majesty. Leave the worrying to me.  As you know, I'm not an ant of half- measures.  I don't pussyfoot around. This crisis is my number one priority, and I promise you it's being dealt with swiftly, and decisively. 
The Queen's attention is interrupted by another baby being put in her arms. 
QUEEN (to baby) No snacking between meals!  Off you go! (to Formica) Now -- what were we saying? 
FORMICA (Oliver North-style) I do not recollect, your majesty. Will that be all? 
QUEEN Yes, General Formica.  Carry on, my good man!  I don't know what we would do without you. 
Formica clicks his heels and bows his head.  Carpenter bows low.  Formica smartly about faces -- 
BALA (O.S.) General Formica! 
PRINCESS BALA hurries through a second doorway, carrying a swatch book.  Something about her sets her apart from the HANDMAIDEN ANTS with her.  Her tiara, probably. 
Formica tilts his head quizzically to Carpenter behind him. 
CARPENTER (sotto) Princess Bala, sir.  Your fiancee. 
FORMICA Princess!  You look -- outstanding. Is there anything I can do for you? 
BALA Well -- I thought -- since we're getting married...it might be nice if we...got to know one another. 
Formica looks confused. 
QUEEN Bala has always been a hopeless romantic, General. 
BALA It's just that -- well, I'm honored that you selected me, and everything, I just thought the marriage might go a little more smoothly if -- we had a conversation? 
Z (pause) Well I'm gonna start doing things for you... 
WEAVER Will you introduce me to some worker girls? 
Z You bet!  They'll really go for a sensitive guy like you! 
WEAVER Maybe I'll get lucky. (Weaver thinks about it) You know, Z, I wouldn't do this for anyone but you... 
Weaver hands Z has helmet. 
WEAVER Wear this. 
Z (overjoyed) You're a real buddy. 
WEAVER (sourly) Yeah, I know. 
Z What do I do? 
WEAVER Don't tell anyone you're a worker. Follow that column over there.  And come right back after the inspection! 
Weaver points to a bunch of soldiers hurrying by in formation. 
Z (overjoyed) Thanks!  I owe you! 
Z skips off and joins the column, marching in time with the soldiers but too excited to keep from jazzing it up a little. 
INT. TOWN CENTER - NIGHT 
The ant army has gathered in a huge HALL in front of a reviewing stand.  We can hear the murmuring of thousands of soldiers -- but all we can see is a HUGE POSTER of an ant General pointing right at the camera.  The poster reads, "GENERAL FORMICA WANTS YOU -- to obey". 
Z turns to some of the soldiers near him. 
Z Any of you guys know when the Princess will show up?  She's kind of a personal friend. 
The soldiers look at Z like he's nuts. 
LOUD VOICE ATTEN-SHUN! 
MARTIAL MUSIC sounds, and we hear thousands of ant feet as they snap to attention.  Z imitates the soldiers awkwardly. 
GENERAL FORMICA struts to the middle 6f the screen, slapping his thigh with a swagger stick (the antenna of some unfortunate insect) 
FORMICA First of all, let me make one thing clear.  Nobody ever won a battle by thinking for himself.  All this "thinking" stuff is a load of crap. If the almighty had wanted you boys to think, he wouldn't have given you huge mandibles and a brain so small you'd misplace it if it wasn't trapped inside your head. 
In the audience, Z starts laughing -- he thinks Formica's just made a joke. 
Z (slapping his thigh) "Trapped inside your head" -- that's a good one -- 
Z notices nobody else is laughing.  He stops. 
Z Geez -- tough room. 
From the stage, Formica is squinting at the audience, trying to make out who was laughing, but there are just too many ants.  He continues. 
FORMICA (striding back and forth) We ants survive as a species because we do what we're told.  We survive because we work together, as one, we get the job done, we do whatever it takes to persevere! (dramatic pause) Hell, we're not an army of ants...we're one giant ant, with giant fists, and giant jaws! 
The soldiers CHEER!  Z CHEERS along with the rest of them. 
BARBATUS Are you crazy, kid?  They shoot deserters! 
Z swallows hard. 
BARBATUS You just stick by old Barbatus. He'll watch out for you. (off Z's look) Whatsamatter, kid?  Leave a girl behind? 
Z Yeah.  Well -- no.  She's kind of playing hard to get.  As a matter of fact, she's playing completely unattainable. (nervously) So, what's on the schedule?  A brisk walk?  a foraging expedition? 
BARBATUS No -- we're going to attack the termites! 
Z (alarmed) Attack?  But -- I hate attacking! It's so hostile! 
Around Z and Barbatus, the ants start up a marching song, which we intersperse with dialogue between Barbatus and Z to form a montage/time-cut as the ant army marches on to the termite capital. 
ANT SOLDIERS (to the tune of "When Johnny Comes Marching Home") We ants go marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah!  We slaughter termites just for fun, Hurrah! Hurrah! 
Z So -- these termites, they're little, shy, retiring insects? 
BARBATUS (grim smile) No such luck.  Those dirty terms are five times bigger than us, and they shoot acid from their foreheads! 
SOLDIER ANTS We ants go marching two by two, hurrah!  Hurrah!  We'll all be dead before we're through, hurrah!  Hurrah! 
Montage shots of an ant column marching diagonally across the screen, fading into another column marching diagonally downwards across the screen... 
Z Well, what exactly does our platoon do?  Serve beverages?  Process paperwork? 
BARBATUS Our platoon has the best assignment of all.  We're the first into battle! 
ANT SOLDIERS We ants are marching three by three, hurrah!  Hurrah!  Dead ants is what we soon will be, hurrah!  Hurrah! 
...montage shot of Z's column crossing a bridge composed of living ants -- all of whom look extremely uncomfortable as they're getting stepped on... 
Z So we're going back for more armor, right?  I mean, these guys are from outer space, how are we supposed to beat them?! 
BARBATUS Superior numbers, kid! 
EXT. TERRAIN NEAR TERMITE STUMP - NIGHT 
Z looks up to see...looming high above them...the TERMITE CITY, which is built in the stump of a dead tree.  From here it looks like a demonic Mount Fuji.  The COLONEL ANT shouts an order. 
COLONEL ATTAAAAAAAAACK!!! 
The front line of ants starts rushing towards the termite colony...Z is swept along... 
BARBATUS Over the TOOOOOOOOOOOOO-OP!!! 
Z is swept along and up the side of the stump as thousands of ants invade the colony through every possible entrance. Up...over the lip of the stump...and down inside, to the very middle of the termite colony... 
Into a disquietingly peaceful scene.   They're in the middle of the hollowed-out trunk, and ants keep pouring in -- but there's not a termite to be seen.  Barbatus looks around suspiciously. 
BARBATUS It's too damn quiet. 
Then we hear a strange tapping noise.  Barbatus looks over, and sees that Z's teeth are chattering with fear. 
BARBATUS Don't be scared, kid.  Barbatus's got yer back. 
Z (petrified) Maybe they went out for the evening. Let's leave them a message and head home. 
Z (backing away) Shoo! -- Torro!  Torro! 
At the last moment, Z jumps out of the way -- and the termite runs headfirst into the supporting column of the chamber.  As if on a spring release, the termite's jaws clamp shut -- and shatter the base of the column.  The walls of the room begin to rumble... 
The termite turns to eat Z...but is crushed by a stone falling from the ceiling, which gives a final shudder and collapses, raining earth and stones down on the queen. 
As the walls of the chamber crumble, melees of ants and termites pour into the room from the corridors around and above...they keep struggling until... 
ANT OFFICER (points at Z) He's killed their Queen! 
Z Hey, I'm sorry, it was a mistake -- 
ANT OFFICER VICTORY!!! 
We can see that the termite warriors, deprived of their leader, are suddenly confused and directionless, easy prey for the ants. 
Z (facetious) This is terrific!   Let's exact crippling war reparations!  Let's set up a puppet government! 
ANT OFFICER Let's slaughter them all! 
The ants set about killing the disoriented termites when...we hear another rumble coming from the outside...the ants look up confusedly... 
...And a (from the ant's point of view) five-hundred foot long tongue bursts through the top of the chamber with a CRASH.  The ten or so ants standing directly below are smashed by the tongue, which squirts out a spray of saliva around the crater.  As quick as it appeared, the tongue retracts, with a hideous SLUUURPING sound.  We can now see the end of the snout of an ant-eater poking through a hole in the ceiling high above... 
ANT OFFICER INCOMING! 
The tongue comes down again, smashing some more ants, whose bodies are slurped up by the tongue...the ants scatter, but to no avail, as the tongue comes smashing down again and again... 
Z heads into a side corridor as the tongue smashes down again, barely missing him! 
Z retreats along the corridor as the tongue searches for him, across the tunnel from intersecting access-tunnels, getting closer and closer to Z, dragging more and more screaming ants and struggling termites... 
....Then the tongue disappears.  Silence.  Z wipes his brow... 
And we hear a thunderous SNIFFING noise as the anteater searches for more prey... and the tongue starts rumbling down the corridor right towards Z, the tip squirming as it ricochets along the walls! 
Z gets up and runs, the tongue lapping towards him, reminiscent of the stone sphere that nearly crushed Indiana Jones in Raiders of the Lost Ark!  The walls disintegrate under the pressure of the tongue, which gets closer to Z...closer... 
...and just misses him as Z tumbles out of the stump and down to the ground...Z sits there, dazed, as we see the huge form of the anteater withdraw its tongue and, with a final contented burp, shuffle off into the distance. 
EXT. TERMITE STUMP - MORNING 
Z makes his way across the corpse-strewn battlefield, an expression of horror on his face. 
BARBATUS (O.S.) Z!  Over here! 
Z (hopeful) Barbatus? 
Z looks down at his feet, where Barbatus's still-living, decapitated head is looking up at him. 
Z (shocked) Barbatus! 
BARBATUS Be honest, kid -- am I hurt bad? 
Z No, no, you're...lookin' good. You've got good color in your cheeks. 
BARBATUS No -- I can see it in your eyes.  I'm a goner.  It's alright, Z.  In this ant's army, a soldier's life ain't worth a sack of fungus. (he winces) I can't feel my legs... 
The other ant starts ringing a bell, rushing down into the colony. 
CUT TO: 
INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY 
A huge crowd is forming, eager to welcome the army back.  A band is striking up a triumphant victory song, confetti and streamers are being thrown, as General Formica strides in, followed by Carpenter. 
EXCITED ANTS The army's returned!  Our brave boys are back! (etc.) 
Everyone waves little flags as the tuba player Oompah-oompah- oompahs... 
...and Z walks into the hall, looking bedraggled and exhausted, his helmet hanging over his ears. 
The band slows to a halt. 
At the edge of the crowd, Azteca, sitting on Weaver's shoulders, can just about see over the crowd. 
AZTECA It looks like only one soldier made it back! 
Weaver looks distraught. 
WEAVER (to himself) Poor Z -- I should never have let you go! 
Far down the hall, Z is describing the battle. 
Z It was horrible...a massacre, a massacre upon a massacre.  First we massacred them, then they massacred us, then it was halftime.  I've never seen such violence, such bloodthirstiness, such bad manners...I'm the only one that made it! 
The atmosphere is somber.  This is a tough one to try and put a spin on...but that doesn't stop Formica from trying. 
FORMICA ONE TO NOTHING!  WE WIN! 
The band strikes up again, and everyone cheers. 
Z No -- you -- you don't understand! 
FORMICA Damn, I'm proud of you, boy.  I wish I had a hundred ants of your caliber. The world would tremble.  Now, time for some R and R.  You're invited to the royal victory party! 
Z Royal victory party?  Will...will Princess Bala be there? 
FORMICA Of course.  The entire royal family will be there to honor you. 
Z (thinks) ONE TO NOTHING! 
Renewed CHEERS, as Z is lifted onto the shoulder of some of the soldiers who stayed behind. 
AZTECA Wait a minute, that's no soldier -- that's Z! 
WEAVER Z?  Our Z?  The little guy made it! 
Z is following Formica away from the cheering crowd. 
EXT. ABOVE TOWN CENTER - DAY 
Z and Formica are going up the royal "stairway" together. 
FORMICA Son, you're an ant after my own heart.  A warrior.  An ant that looks death right in the face and laughs. 
BALA I'm Princess Bala. 
Z Ah, yes. (affected) Well, charmed, I'm sure.  So, Princess, have you ever danced with a hero? 
BALA Yes. 
Z (deflated) Oh...oh well then, one more won't matter. 
She moves towards the dance floor.  Z spit-combs his antennae, struts after her -- until he trips on his sword. He tumbles, falls, but hops to his feet just as Bala turns toward him, turning it into a ballet plies. 
Z Just warming up... 
She frowns...there's something familiar about this guy.  But then they start dancing. 
ACROSS THE ROOM: The Queen and General Formica watch the party. 
QUEEN All these parties are so marvellously alike. 
FORMICA They should be... (suspicious) But there's something funny about that soldier. 
Formica strides over to where Z and Bala are dancing. 
FORMICA (glowering) May I cut in? 
Z (intimidated) Oh, of course -- 
BALA (pulling Z back) No, General.  I'm dancing with the war hero. 
Z (trying to placate Formica) Uh, sorry, General, I...I've always had this animal magnetism, it -- 
Bala YANKS Z back onto the dance floor, dancing away from Formica. 
BALA You dance... 
Z Divinely? 
BALA No weirdly...You remind me of someone... 
Formica catches Bala's eye.  She frowns at him, and decides to get a little shocking. 
BALA He was swarthy...primitive... earthy...sensual. 
As she says these things, Z tries to act accordingly. 
BALA He was a worker.  I danced with him at a worker's bar just the other day. I'm not shocking you, am I? 
Z (proudly) No...as a matter of fact... 
BALA (shocked) OH MY GOD, IT'S YOU!  YOU'RE A WORKER!!!  A filthy, stupid, disgusting WORKER! 
Everybody gasps.  The dancing stops cold. 
Z Gee, uh, could you say it a little louder, I think there are some ants in the next colony who didn't hear you. 
BALA I CAN'T DANCE WITH A WORKER! 
Z (offended) That's not what you said the other night -- 
Bala, who has no idea what's really going on, turns from the colony and runs the other way. 
BALA I'm going!  I'm going' 
...unfortunately, this draws the fire of the laser, which follows after her in what looks like a strafing run, SIZZLING in her footsteps. 
Z, who's running towards the princess, suddenly realizes that he's running towards certain doom...and joins Bala in legging it away from the colony; under a brown leaf, which bursts into flames...between the redwood-like stalks of some flowers...and finally into the relative safety of some grass...where they throw themselves on the ground, exhausted. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. WEED CLUMP - DAY 
Z and Bala dust themselves off. 
BALA What was that thing? 
Z How should I know? 
BALA I order you to find out where we are! 
Z Alright, alright, I'll try to get directions from one of the locals. 
Z tries to flag down some passing bees. 
Z Excuse me, I -- (it passes him by; he tries the next) Pardon me -- (same response) And they call them social insects. 
BALA Climb up that tree and get a better view! 
Bala points to a thin blade of grass.  Gingerly, Z tests the grass and starts climbing up it...but his weight bends it, so that he's lowered back to the ground, face to upside-down face with Bala. 
BALA I've been kidnapped by the village idiot. 
Z Who's the bigger idiot -- the idiot who gets kidnapped, or the idiot who lets herself get kidnapped by the idiot? 
BALA How dare you speak to me like that? I'm the Princess! 
Z squares up with her. 
Z Theoretically, yes.  But is the monarchical hierarchy applicable without the underlying social structure to support it? 
BALA Of course!  It defines society!  To deny the precept is to say that order is an arbitrary distinction applied by the society itself! 
Z But can there be a society composed of just two ants? 
BALA No!  There's no such thing as "just two ants."  You never see just two ants -- you see a million ants! 
Z Look around, sweetheart. 
She looks around.  She doesn't like what she sees.  She glowers at Z. 
BALA I -- hate -- you. 
Z Well I guess that makes us even. 
BALA Ha!  Don't make me laugh.  You're crazy about me!  That's why you lied and cheated to get near me! 
Z Oh come on, you're the one who came after me -- the swarthy, earthy, sensual worker! 
WEAVER (taking Azteca's hand) Right...because every ant's important! 
WORKER #2 (scoffs) But that would mean I'm important. 
WORKER #1 I'm outta here, this sounds like trouble to me. 
But more ants are gathering 'round. 
WEAVER We can all be individuals!  Just like Z! 
Weaver and Azteca hold hands.  More ants are gathering around, dropping their tools... 
EXT. BIKE PATH - DAY 
LONG SHOT.  A glimmering desert landscape (think of "The Sun's Anvil" in Lawrence of Arabia).  Two small figures can be seen, tiny dots moving across the arid whiteness. 
They're Bala and Z, who are crossing a concrete path in the park, which they perceive to be a "desert". 
BALA Water...water... 
Z Water...water -- oh, you already said that. 
BALA (walking along) My skin's dry, my exoskeleton is cracking...I wish I'd never met you, you ruined my life. 
Z I ruined your life?  Look, I was perfectly happy until I met you -- alright, I was miserable, but I was happily miserable. 
Over Z's line, we can see a GIGANTIC WHEEL, getting larger and larger and heading right towards them, a GIGANTIC WHEEL (the front wheel of a bicycle which is heading right towards them). 
BALA Look out! 
Bala pushes Z out of the way just as the wheel rolls past with a cacophonous CRUNCHING, GRINDING noise -- like a gigantic millwheel. 
BALA We're going to die! 
Z Come on -- it's gone!  What are the chances of that happening again? 
No sooner has he said it than the rear wheel of the bike thunders past. 
Z Well I'll be. 
Bala notices that they're clutching one another in fear; she pushes him away. 
BALA Why didn't I listen to my mother ...why'd I have to go looking for trouble? Any ant would have given their left legs to be in my position...what's wrong with me? 
Z Want a list? 
BALA (urgent) Wait, I hear something! 
We can, in fact, hear a low, musical PLUNK.. there's a pause and then we can hear it again... 
Z and Bala walk over a rocky "dune" (the soft shoulder of the path).  Beyond, the grass starts up again.  They have come to the end of the "desert" (i.e. the other side of the path) Through the blades of grass, we can see... 
Z It's...it's... 
BALA WATER!!! 
EXT. LAKE - DAY 
Z, overhearing her, slowly puts his hand on her shoulder. 
INT. MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY 
Formica and Carpenter are walking into the entrance of the tunnel with a squad of soldiers. 
FORMICA Dammit, this tunnel is priority A-1! We can't afford any delays on this project! 
CARPENTER I've never seen anything like it, General, they're they're...well, look! 
Ahead of them, a group of a few hundred workers have stopped work and are sitting down, chanting... 
WORKER ANTS Z!  Z!  Z!  Z! 
A worker moves forward to join the strikers, tossing down his tool. 
FOREMAN (yelling at him) Where do ya think you're going?  Get back to work! 
WORKER #1 Buzz off, I'm important! (joining the others) Z!  Z!  Z!  Z! 
At the center of the group, Weaver and Azteca are holding hands, leading the chant. 
FORMICA Notice the big one, holding hands with the female? 
CARPENTER Well, uh, who notices workers, sir? 
FORMICA (calculating) No one should have to.  Have him brought to me. 
INT. FORMICA'S CHAMBERS - NIGHT 
A nervous Weaver is sitting across from Formica, flanked by a couple of stoic guards.  Carpenter stands smiling by the side door.  There is no obvious threat to Weaver, but the atmosphere is truly intimidating. 
FORMICA So this Z...he fancies himself an individual? 
WEAVER Yeah...I mean...well...I don't know, really, sir. 
FORMICA (patronizing) Well now you haven't fallen for this silly idea of individuality, have you? 
WEAVER Oh, no, sir! 
FORMICA Good.  You're a good soldier. 
WEAVER Thank you, sir. 
Weaver begins to relax a bit. 
FORMICA So tell me.  Where's Z? 
WEAVER I...I have no idea, sir. 
FORMICA Okay, son. 
He pats Weaver on the shoulder. 
FORMICA We know what makes an ant colony strong, don't we?  We know that no ant can be an individual.  No single ant matters, right? 
WEAVER (enthusiastically) That's correct, sir! 
Z goes over to a gigantic sandwich, but -- BOOIIING! -- he's prevented from getting at it by the saran wrap covering it. 
Z There's - there's some kind of force field! 
Bala joins him, laboring against the saran wrap.  Then both of them hear laughter from above. 
MALE WASP (O.S.) (lockjawed accent) Muffy, look, party-crashers. 
FEMALE WASP (O.S.) (laughing) They're simply too much, Chip! 
Bala and Z look up to see two large, yellow WASPS hovering in the air above them.  The husband and wife wasps have lockjawed, William F. Buckleyesque accents. 
MALE WASP (to Z and Bala) You down there, haven't you ever been to a picnic? 
Z Hunh? 
FEMALE WASP Habla Ingles? (to Male Wasp) Well I really don't know who they are. 
Z We're ants! 
The Male Wasp zooms in closer. 
MALE WASP Poopsie, we know some ants, don't we? (to Z) Are you related to the Fifth Avenue ants? 
FEMALE WASP Darling, do you have to talk to any insect from off the street? 
MALE WASP Just being friendly, Poopsie. 
BALA Hello?  I'm not just "any insect". My mother is the Queen. (momentously) I'm Princess Bala! 
MALE WASP (under his breath) They're Eurotrash, dear. 
We hear a loud RUMBLING noise -- the family is about to sit down for their picnic lunch.  Gigantic hands reach down and pull away the "force fields". 
MALE WASP Lunch! (to Z) A little piece of advice, sport -- bob and weave!  Bob and weave! 
BALA What do you mean? 
MALE WASP Well -- like my father used to say -- there's no such thing as a free meal! 
The wasps dive in to the picnic, darting in for a bite, and then dashing away again... 
THE WASPS Excuse me -- I'll have some potato salad -- thank-you! -- don't mind if I do!  After you! (etc.) 
-- But all is not well.  We pull back to reveal that Z and Bala are standing in front of a giant sneaker logo, which is attached to a giant sneaker.  Which moves. 
Z I sort of imagined Insectopia a little differently -- 
Just at that moment, we hear a whistling in the air -- and the female wasp is crushed by a huge swatter that sweeps out of the sky, sending the picnic blanket billowing up in an aftershock that throws Bala and Z to the ground. 
BALA Oh...my...God. 
MALE WASP (shaking her) Muffy!  Muffy!  Wake up! 
But she doesn't move.  The Male Wasp stares up at the sky. 
MALE WASP (heartbroken) WHYYYYYYYYYYYYY???? 
THUD!  They're squished deeper into the bubblegum.  The sneaker rises again... 
BALA (emotional) Z...if we don't make it...I just want you to know.... 
Z (touched) Yes? 
BALA This is all your fault!!! 
The sneaker rises, and seems ready to fall again...but instead it just hovers there.  (The person wearing it is balancing on one leg and about to scrape off the bubblegum with a penny). 
Z We're safe... 
Just then, the hand holding the penny looms up...the penny is, by ant standards, about sixty feet high.  The huge image of Abraham Lincoln stares down at them. 
Z Who the hell is that?!!! 
The penny starts scrapes the bubblegum off the sneaker, bringing Bala and Z along with it.  They're carried through the air as the penny gets thrown away...turning over and over in a lopsided orbit as Bala and Z SCREAM... 
...and land with a CRASH in total darkness. 
EXT. LAKE - DAY 
The "lake" where Z and Bala were nearly drowned by the water droplet. 
The earth shakes as a HUGE, MONSTROUS creature approaches the lake - and begins to drink from it.  The creature seems to hear something, and, growling, turns its ugly head.  It's a Pomeranian, one of those yappy little lap-dogs -- but seen from ant perspective, it's something out of a horror movie. 
TOUGH VOICE (O.S.) Ant Team Six -- take him out! 
The monster bears its huge fangs at the approaching intruders -- a bunch of flying ants who look as though they're attacking the Death Star! 
The monster rears and snaps at two of the ants, who are making a diversionary run... 
and then gets it from the rest of the ants, who land on his soft, wet nose and start stinging away like crazy. 
The monster rears back in pain -- and runs away, YIPPING! 
The members of ANT TEAM SIX, a crack team of hardcore flying- ant commandoes a la Seal Team Six, break off the attack and land. 
MAJOR MANDIBLE And don't come back, you sissy! 
MAJOR MANDIBLE, Ant Team Six's lethal commander, steps into frame.  He's the one-eyed killer we met in the bar earlier. The rest of his team fan out to search the area. 
MANDIBLE Talk to me. 
COMMANDO ANT Z and the Princess were here, sir. Signs of a struggle. 
MANDIBLE Let's get a read on that feremone track. 
COMMANDO ANT #1 (to the others) Get the sniffer! 
Two other commandoes come running up with what looks like a piece of machinery on a tripod -- only it's an ant -- a highly specialized, blind ant with an incredibly acute sense of smell. 
TRACKER ANT Bala...find Bala... 
The tracker, drool running out of its long proboscis, sniffs the air and starts signalling like a geiger counter... 
TRACKER ANT (as he's swivelled) Nnononononononoyeahyeahnononononono no... 
Surprisingly, the termite seems equally terrified... 
FLY (to Z) Hey, take it easy!  There's nothin' to be afraid of! 
Z Yeah, well, I make it a practice not to trust anyone who shoots acid out of their forehead. 
CRICKET Dude, here in Insectopia, we don't judge people by how many arms and legs we've got. 
FLY Yeah, back home, they called me a fruitfly.  But here, I'm known as... (with attitude) Superfly. 
CRICKET Anyway, big Gus is mellow. 
The termite sticks his hand out.  A drop of acid drips from his head and splashes at Z's feet. 
Z (taking his hand, disgusted) Charmed. 
Z reaches out and shakes the termite's hand, as Bala watches, smiling. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. INSECTOPIA - NIGHT 
The insects are having a cookout, their faces illuminated by the still-red ember of a match.  Platters heaped with food lie untouched as they pat their bellies... 
Z and Bala sit next to one another, smiling shyly as if they had just met for the first time. 
Z So...you never did tell me...what made you come out to the worker bar that night? 
BALA Just looking for fun, adventure, trouble, I guess. 
Z Well, "trouble" is my middle name. Actually, my  middle name is .985, but I don't tell people.  Hey, Bala, I...I actually have something of yours...you left it at the bar that night. 
Z takes out Bala's scarf, which he's been keeping folded in a pocket. 
Z Sorry, it's been through a war, not to mention everything else... 
BALA You held onto this all that time? 
Z Well, I...I know it's a little strange, but...I thought it might come in handy if I...needed a scarf someday. (embarrassed) Well, to be honest, I just liked having it. 
He hands it back to her.  Bala looks at Z, frankly, openly. For a moment Z is shy.  Then he looks at her too.  They're two lovers, leaning closer, about to have their first kiss, when -- 
BEETLE Hey Z! 
The moment is wrecked.  Z looks up.  A chubby beetle stands there with Gus the termite. 
BEETLE Wanna bring back dessert?  There's a thirty foot long blimp in the next can, made completely of chocolate! 
Z (annoyed) Sure.  I wasn't busy or anything. 
Z gets up to go with them. 
Z Great timing, guys.  Ever wonder why they call you "pests"? 
EXT.  INSECTOPIA, TOP OF CAN - NIGHT 
As Ant Team Six lands and takes up position above the feast. The tracker ant is going nuts. 
INT. ANT MOUND - DAY 
Elsewhere in the colony, a column of soldiers marches by, and we hear the TROMP-TROMP-TROMP of their boots.  When they've gone, Z pokes his head out from behind a pile of dirt...he heads in the opposite direction of the soldiers... 
INT. OUTSIDE FORMICA'S CHAMBERS - DAY 
Z creeps around the outside of Formica's chambers.  This part of the colony seems to be deserted. 
Z Geez, this place really empties out in August.  Where is everybody? 
Z walks up to the skull that houses Formica's chambers and peeks in the eye socket. 
INT. FORMICA'S CHAMBERS 
Inside, the Tracker Ant, who's been left behind, switches "on", eyes glowing.  Z enters the chamber cautiously. 
TRACKER ANT (sniffing) Z!  Z!  I smell Z! 
For a moment, Z's afraid.  Then he sees the small Tracker Ant doesn't seem hostile. 
Z You "smell" me?  Well look, I -- I've been out in the wilderness for a while, and -- 
The tracker ant keeps sniffing.  Z waves his hand in front of the blind ant's eyes. 
Z (getting it) Hey, wait, you're...you're one of those pheremone sniffers, aren't you? Maybe you can help me...I'm looking for a friend of mine, Princess Bala. 
TRACKER ANT (enthusiastic) Bala!  Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeah!  Find Bala!  Yeahyeahyeahyeah! 
Z picks up the tracker ant. 
Z Just remember, I met her first. 
Z, carrying the little tracker ant, heads out, following its lead... 
Through this and that passage, as the Tracker Ant gets more and more insistent...And finally straight to a blank wall. 
TRACKER ANT Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeah... 
Z Bala's through there? 
TRACKER ANT Bala...Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeah... 
Z Great.  More digging.  This is why I left in the first place. 
Z can answer his own question.  He puts down the tracker ant, with a look on his face like a kid forced to eat broccoli, starts digging through the wall... 
INT. SKYLIGHT APEX - DAY 
Meanwhile, A member of Ant Team Six -- the stupidest member, in fact, waits at the very top of the tunnel, where it narrows almost to a point.  He's hanging from a winch, and has a little hammer and chisel in his hand.  He's WHISTLING, awaiting instructions. 
INT. MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY 
Z emerges from the tunnel he's dug, spits a load of dirt out of his mouth and wipes his hands off.  Nearby, Bala lies there, bound and gagged. 
Z Bala! 
Z unties Bala and undoes her gag. 
QUEEN Bala! 
BALA Mom! 
Z calls out to the crowd. 
Z Listen up!  We've all got to get out of here!  This place is going to flood! 
The workers are unconvinced. 
WORKER #1 Are you nuts? 
Z You've got to believe me! 
WORKER #2 Oh yeah?  What makes you so special, Mr. Know-It-All? 
Z I'm Z. 
The workers are even more sceptical.  A laugh goes up from the crowd. 
WORKER #3 You're Z?  Gimme a break!  Z's ten milimeters tall! 
WORKER #4 -- and he can kill termites with his bare hands!  You're just some scrawny worker with a mental problem! 
Z I am Z! 
WORKER #1 No you're not! 
WEAVER Yes he is. 
Weaver steps out of the crowd. 
Z Weaver! 
Weaver runs up to Z and hugs him, starting to cry. 
WORKERS Hey...it is Z...listen to what he says! [etc]. 
WEAVER Z...I'm so sorry!  I -- 
Z Don't worry about it, pal. 
Nearby, Bala and the Queen hug.  The Queen looks over at Z. 
QUEEN (distastefully) Oh...it's that social-climbing worker again -- what does he want? 
Z (in response) To save you all!  Now we've got to go! 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY 
Outside of the colony, where Formica, surrounded by the army, gives a signal to Mandible by drawing his finger across his throat... 
MANDIBLE (talking into his antenna) Let 'er rip! 
INT. SKYLIGHT APEX - DAY 
The workers turn to look at him questioningly. 
Z We've got to dig a trench around us! 
-- But one of the workers raises his hands. 
WORKER #1 Uh...we don't dig any more.  We're individuals. 
WORKER #2 Yeah.  We're too important to dig. You taught us that, Z.  You hate digging! 
Z (at his wits end) Yeah, but I hate drowning more!  Now dig! 
WEAVER You heard the ant -- DIG!!! 
The workers start to dig a circular moat around themselves, passing the dirt back into the middle of what remains of the dry ground. 
-- But they seems to be making little headway against the water as it continues to rush in... 
The ant labor we saw up to now were nothing compared to this.   As the moat gets deeper, the pile grows higher and higher...Weaver is digging up huge chunks of earth...nearby, Azteca is digging like crazy too...Z runs around, directing traffic and encouraging the workers... 
Z That's it!  Pass the dirt back to the center!  Go on! 
Nearby the Queen stands there, looking squeamish. 
Z Your highness...time to get your hands dirty! 
Gingerly, the Queen reaches out for a clod of dirt...and passes it along.  Next thing you know, she's practically crushed by a huge load thrown up by Weaver. 
The water keeps rushing in...but now we notice that... 
...the pile of dirt in the middle of the "island" created by the digging of the moat is growing higher and higher, reaching up towards the ceiling of the chamber... 
...And the water is getting swallowed up by the moat, swirling around angrily. 
Now Z looks up, and sees that with a little more effort they can reach the top -- 
Z We need to form a scaffolding around this mound -- let's DO IT! 
The workers start to cluster around the mound, covering it, forming a tight network of living bodies around the mound up towards the ceiling... 
Z Now climb! 
The ants start to scale the scaffolding, up towards the top of the chamber...it's a swarming mass of ants, hauling each other up, giving each other legs up, climbing ever and ever higher towards the top... 
Where they start to dig through the very ceiling... 
...as, at the bottom of the mound, Z starts to organize the hauling away of the Queen, as though she were a big cargo container... 
Z Okay boys -- take her up! 
Z slaps the Queen on the butt, and she's winched away on a cable composed entirely of ants linked arm in arm like those plastic toy monkeys... 
EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY 
...And Azteca's head pokes through the ground...she hauls herself up, and hundreds of ants pour up from the ground, widening the hole... 
INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY 
BALA No, I'm Z. 
More and more ants step forward. 
WORKERS I'm Z!  I'm Z!  I'm Z and so is my brother!  I've been Z for weeks now! 
QUEEN (regally) We are Z. 
Now, the workers are all shouting the same declaration. 
ALL I am Z!  I am Z!  I am Z! 
Z is plainly flabbergasted.  Formica is outraged.  He gives the signal. 
FORMICA ATTACK! 
The army swells forward on all sides, pushing the workers towards the swirling water.  Some workers surround the Queen to protect her.  All seems lost, when THE FLY from Insectopia alights on the rim of the horizon. 
FLY Hey, guys! 
THE WASP appears on the other side of the horizon. 
WASP It's them! 
Suddenly, on all sides, A MASSIVE INSECT ARMY appears on the ridge, looking not unlike ambushing Indians in a John Ford film.  Formica's soldiers stop in their tracks, awed by the unfolding spectacle.  It looks like all of Insectopia has turned out: spiders, caterpillars, rhinoceros beetles, all manner of creatures crawling and flying have shown up, and now surround the army, dwarfing them. 
WASP Are these hooligans giving you trouble, Z? 
FLY Say the word, Z, and we kick their butts. 
The ant army remains frozen, unsure of what to do next. Formica is furious.  If ants had veins, Formica's would be bulging out of his face. 
FORMICA What are you doing?!  ATTACK!! (berating his army) Come on, you yellow-bellies! (turning on Carpenter) Don't just stand there, Carpenter! Make an example of yourself! 
CARPENTER Uh, actually, we are outnumbered sir... 
Formica turns towards the insects gathered against him.  With his chin raised pridefully, Formica steps forward, and CHARGES Z! 
FORMICA AHHHHHHH!! 
Formica runs so quickly and with such force that his helmet blows off his head.  Z's eyes get big, he stumbles backwards, slipping, and Formica goes flying over him, toward the whirlpool behind.  He scrabbles at the edge of the water, and then tumbles over. 
For a moment, it looks as if he's gone. 
FORMICA (O.S.) Help...help me... 
Z goes to the edge of the precipice and looks over.  Formica is struggling in the waters of the very flood he created, which are roiling not far below.  He looks up into Z's eyes, a new expression crossing his features: fear. 
FORMICA Please...I...I can't swim...Help me... 
Formica goes under for a bit, then his head comes up again -- but he's not going to be able to stay afloat for long... 
Suddenly he sees a line dropped down.  Above, Z looks down on him. 
Z I thought you said that the life of one ant doesn't matter. 
Formica looks at the line...and in that moment seems to realize his error... 
