APT PUPIL by Brandon Boyce 
Apt Pupil 
by 
Brandon Boyce 
Through the window of a moving vehicle, we see a series of small, middle-class houses.  This could be any suburban street in America. 
INT. CITY BUS - DAY 
A boy is seated near the back of a moving bus.  This is TODD BOWDEN, 15, as All-American as they come.  He stares out at the other passengers indifferently.  Then something catches his eye. 
EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - SANTO DONATO - DAY 
DUSSANDER (O.S.) All right.  All right.  I'm coming.  Let it go! 
Todd lets go as a chain behind the heavy door starts to rattle. Then it opens.  An old man stands behind the screen.  He is KURT DUSSANDER, a.k.a. Arthur Denker.  Mid-seventies.  Standing there in his bathrobe and slippers, a cigarette smashed in his mouth, he looks like a cross between Boris Karloff and Albert Einstein. Dussander stares at Todd, who tries to speak, but suddenly cannot. 
DUSSANDER (continuing) A boy.  I don't need anything, boy.  Can't you read?  I thought all American boys could read.  Don't be a nuisance, now.  Good day. 
The door begins to close.  Todd waits till the last moment before speaking. 
TODD Call them if you want. 
DUSSANDER Fine. 
The heavy door slams shut. 
TODD It's okay by me Herr Kommandant.  I'm sure the police would love to meet the "Blood- fiend of Patin." 
DUSSANDER You'll do no such thing. 
TODD I won't?  Listen, old man, if I want to start screaming right here, I will.  If I want to ride down to the police station and bring the cops back myself, then I will.  I will do what ever I want.  Do you understand? (pause) But if you like, I could come in for a minute.  We could talk. 
Pause. 
DUSSANDER I'd be out of my mind to let an insane boy like you into my home. 
Dussander's home is what you would expect of a single, poor, old man.  Nothing fancy, nothing out of the ordinary.  Todd looks around, perhaps half-expecting to find a Nazi flag or an oil painting of Der Fuehrer hanging above the mantle.  But he doesn't, and moves into the living room where an old picture of a woman sits framed on an end table. 
DUSSANDER My wife.  She died in 1955 of lung disease. At that time I was working at the Menschler Motor Works in Essen.  I was heartbroken. 
Todd's attention drifts away and his fingers slip over to a lampshade next to the photograph.  He begins to feel it as though he were inspecting it for something. 
DUSSANDER (CONT'D) Stop that! 
TODD Of course, I followed you.  You think I normally go around to peoples' houses and accuse them of being Nazi fugitives? 
DUSSANDER Perhaps for me you made an exception. 
TODD No, for you I had to be sure.  For Kurt Dussander I had to be absolutely certain. ...Now, I am, and that's why I'm here. 
Todd sits on the sofa. 
DUSSANDER Your what? 
TODD My One Great Interest.  Well, not you personally, but, ...well, it's something I learned back in eighth grade.  Our teacher, Miss Harmon, she said we'd have to find our One Great Interest in life.  You know, the thing that would really grab us.  Once we did that, everything would fall into place.  Like hers, she said, wasn't teaching, but collecting nineteenth-century postcards.  I guess there's no money in that, so she has to be a teacher.  Anyway, she told us to start thinking about it.  So I did, but nothing happened.  Until the following summer, in Ronny Pegler's garage.  That's where I found it. 
INT. RONNY PEGLER'S GARAGE - DAY 
Todd and RONNY, both 13, rummage through several large boxes in the corner of the garage.  We see that the boxes are filled with old war magazines.  Ronny tosses several of them to the ground as he digs for his dad's old copies of Penthouse.  Ronny selects one Penthouse and rifles through it.  He discards it a moment later. 
As young Todd stares into this secret world, his voice comes in... 
TODD (CONT'D) It was all there... pictures of stuff I'd never seen, stuff they never put in the books anymore, especially the ones they give us to read.  And here were stacks of them. 
INT. DUSSANDER'S LIVING ROOM - DAY 
Todd speaks excitedly.  Dussander, very bored, clearly indulges him. 
TODD You know, accelerated.  I skipped two grades, second and ninth.  I didn't need them. That's why I'm already a junior. 
Dussander sits. 
DUSSANDER I see... 
TODD Some kids resent me for it.  That's not important.  Anyway, my paper really floored my history teacher.  I guess because I got through all those books without throwing up. But I learned something.  I learned that when you talk about the camps now, you have to remember to sound really disgusted.  I mean, you can't just say what happened like the magazines did and leave it at that.  If I tried that the teacher would have freaked and called my parents in. 
TODD What? 
RONNY (suddenly wary of Todd) Your mom's on the phone. 
ANGLE on Todd. 
INT. DUSSANDER'S LIVING ROOM - DAY 
DUSSANDER I am sure you trouble your parents to no end. 
TODD Actually, I'm pretty low maintenance.  That's what my dad says. 
DUSSANDER You told your parents about me, then? 
TODD You think I'm crazy? 
TODD And then it happened... I was on my way to the library.  It was raining... 
FLASHBACK: INT. CITY BUS - DAY 
Todd's voice narrates what we are seeing.  Todd, seated near the back of the bus, watches Dussander climb aboard.  Todd thinks nothing of it at first, but soon finds that he is unable to take his eyes off him.  Todd is trying to place the old man's face in his mind... 
TODD (V.O.) You climbed on the bus and started this slow walk down the aisle.  Just like you were examining a new batch of inmates.  I don't think anybody gave you a second glance but me, but somehow ...people seemed to move out of your way.  And under your arm you carried a rolled up umbrella.  But what really did it, what really set me off was the coat.  You were wearing this long black rain coat.  My mind suddenly flipped back to a picture of you taken at Patin.  You in your S.S. greatcoat with a riding crop under your arm. 
TODD Well, it wasn't that easy.  I mean, I had to really check up on it.  And every picture of you in those books is forty years old, at least.  I went back to the library to find the picture.  And then I matched it with the photos I took. 
DUSSANDER You took photographs of me? 
TODD Yeah, I got this little camera.  Fits right in the palm of my hand. 
DUSSANDER (crunches cigarette into ashtray) Clever boy. 
He storms toward the kitchen and stops. 
DUSSANDER (CONT'D) Would you care for a drink, boy? 
TODD Sure, you got a Coke? 
DUSSANDER No Kok. 
TODD It takes eight good matches, they're called compares, actually, for a fingerprint to get accepted in court. 
DUSSANDER (O.S.) Is that right? 
FLASHBACK: EXT. DUSSANDER'S FRONT PORCH - DAY 
Todd steps up onto the porch and looks around calmly.  He pulls the powder and brush from his pocket and begins to examine the mailbox for prints. 
DUSSANDER (CONT'D) You see?  It's milk, boy.  From Dairylee Farms.  On the carton is a picture of a smiling cow. 
Todd pauses and then begins to drink. 
DUSSANDER (CONT'D) (more to himself than Todd) ...And two missing children. (pause) Boy what you have done, I have to explain this to you because clearly you don't understand, what you have done is a violation. 
TODD A violation? 
