ARCTIC BLUE by Ross LaManna 
FADE IN: 
1	EXT.  BOREAL FOREST - ALASKA - (AERIAL SHOT) - DAY 
Flying.  Not at the intangible height of a jet, but at spitting distance from the treetops.  We're in central Alaska, the Big Lonely, just north of the Arctic Circle. 
A thick forest follows the contours of mountain foothills like a deep-pile carpet.  Up at treeline the forest thins to tundra, a grassy scruff turning red and yellow with the coming of autumn. 
On the horizon, the hills rise to meet the Endicott Mountains, a great fortress wall of granite so sharp and jagged that snow cannot stick to its face.  This is how all North America once looked -- raw, indomitable. 
Then, abruptly coming into the SCENE is a colossal etching across the landscape too deliberate to be of natural origin. Bisecting this country like a metallic ribbon -- or a scar, depending on your point of view -- is the 800-mile-long Trans-Alaskan Pipeline. 
Even the immensity of the pipeline is rendered insignificant by the vastness of the land.  It goes on, and on, and on... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A lone MAN walks along the Haul Road, a one-lane gravel trail running parallel to the pipeline.  The weather turns sour -- rough wind and stinging snow cut across the man's path. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
The man is ERIC DESMOND, twenty-four, clean-shaven, determined.  He's clearly out of place here, dressed in a business suit and a light, camel-hair topcoat. 
Eric is trying to follow some footprints in the snow -- a predator's tracks, those of a wolf or coyote.  But the footprints ahead have faded, covered by the snow and wind. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
The weather becomes more oppressive.  Heavy snow, gale winds and sub-zero temperatures make his progress tortuous.  Eric strives stubbornly forward. (CONTINUED) 1	CONTINUED: 
DISSOLVE TO: 
Eric has gathered some branches.  He tries to make a fire. Moisture from his breath has frozen in the upturned collar of his insufficient coat, and his skin is split raw from the cold. 
His hands are too numb to hold the matches.  After several attempts at striking one, he slumps down next to the pile of wood, exhausted and frustrated. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
The snow has covered the pile of branches.  Eric still sits next to it, partially covered in snow himself. 
ERIC 
His face is a death mask: eyes half-open and dull, lips a purplish blue, bloodless skin crystallizing as it ices over. The wind HOWLS around him.  The snow sticks to his eyelashes and hair without melting. END DREAM 
2	INT.  DARK BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Eric bolts up in bed.  Next to him, ANNE MARIE GAUVIN sits up and hugs him.  All that can be seen of her in the dark is a lovely silhouette and a cascade of dark hair.  After a moment, Eric kisses her.  He shakes off the dream and lies back down. 
3	EXT.  HAUL ROAD AND PIPELINE - CLOSE - DAY 
A metal sign, peppered with shotgun holes, is posted near a pipeline support piling: PIPELINE UTILITY CORRIDOR PRIVATE PROPERTY NO   TRESPASSING NO	  HUNTING NO	 TRAPPING NO	 SHOOTING 
The road and the pipeline stretch toward either horizon, north and south.  In the distance, a jeep is parked on the Haul Road.  Near it, a Man climbs down into another shallow ravine. 
BACK TO SCENE 
Eric hurries down the footpegs. ERIC Man and a jeep, about a mile and a half down. 
He jumps into the Scout.  Anne Marie stuffs her cameras into the hatchback.  As soon as she climbs in, Eric tears out. 
4	INT.  SCOUT - (MOVING SHOT) 
It races along the dusty gravel road at 60 MPH. 
5	EXT.  HAUL ROAD 
Startled at the APPROACH of the Scout, the Trapper uproots his traps and runs out of the ravine.  He WHISTLES and another Trapper appears nearby. 
6	INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP 
They pile into their dilapidated, all-terrain jeep.  It's oddly well-equipped, however.  Bolted to the dashboard is an expensive tape player and a beat-up radio beacon receiver with a round locating screen.  They zoom off. 
7	INT.  SCOUT - (MOVING SHOT) 
Eric stomps on the gas.  The dust from the jeep obscures his view but he's gaining on them anyway.  Anne Marie hangs on and squints her eyes against the choking dust. 
8	INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP - (MOVING SHOT) 
The driver is LEMALLE (35), a tall, ugly, rawboned Canadian. His entire outfit is made of animal hide.  He has long red hair, and a reptilian face usually twisted into a sadistic sneer.  While driving, he scans along the pipeline. LEMALLE Where the fuck did you drop Corbett off? 
In the passenger seat, MITCHELL (38), chews tobacco and looks grim.  He's a squat, flat-faced Okie, with curly matted hair and tired grey eyes.  He's dressed in a brown long coat and has a Colt .45 Peacemaker in a quick-draw holster strapped to his leg.  Despite his intimidating air, confrontation is not his style. 
He spots a figure up ahead, where the road crosses a muddy creek. MITCHELL He's over there. 
9	EXT.  HAUL ROAD 
Turning sharply, the trappers' jeep splashes through the creek bed without slowing.  Bouncing, it comes down hard against the axle-deep bank at the creek's high water mark. LeMalle tries to back out, but can't find traction in the mud. 
Eric stops the Scout thirty yards behind them. 
10   INT.  SCOUT 
Eric opens his door.  To Anne Marie: ERIC Stay here. ANNE MARIE Be careful -- there're two of them. 
Eric reaches in the back seat and hands something to Anne Marie. ERIC If I unzip my parka, stick this out the window. 
11   EXT.  HAUL ROAD 
Eric confidently approaches the jeep. (CONTINUED) 11   CONTINUED: 
Then, a third trapper climbs from the creek.  He's got a line of traps slung around his neck and a world of experience on his face.  He's BEN CORBETT, a life-long huntsman, somewhere past forty, weathered beyond his years. 
He has a feral nose, thick beard and dark, smart, hunter's eyes.  He wears a hooded cotton sweat shirt, cotton coveralls and vapor-barrier mountain boots.  On his belt is a holster rig cradling a .44 magnum revolver. 
17   INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP - (MOVING SHOT) 
Corbett broods while driving.  Mitchell looks out the window.  The silence makes LeMalle uncomfortable. LEMALLE All this fuckin' land, and we're locked out.  Makes me puke. CORBETT Jawing about it won't change it. LEMALLE Three hundred seventy-five million acres in this state.  I'm real tired of runnin' into people. MITCHELL Then don't look to your left. 
18   EXT.  SPORTSMEN'S CAMP 
A brand-new Land Rover is parked on an alluvial fan in a bend in a small river.  Scattered about is an assortment of expensive camping gear, beer cans, spent shells and other garbage. 
Three toy-macho, vacationing SPORTSMEN are guzzling beer and BLASTING fish in the shallow river with 12-gauge shotguns. They look up and glower suspiciously as the jeep slows and stops. 
19   INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP 
LeMalle grabs his carbine. CORBETT Leave it here. (CONTINUED) 
19   CONTINUED: MITCHELL Let's keep going.  We're only an hour from Devil's Cauldron. CORBETT (pats Mitchell's shoulder) Relax.  I just want to ask them how the hunting is. 
20   EXT.  SPORTSMEN'S CAMP 
Corbett gets out of the jeep.  He regards the Sportsmen, their shotguns and their mess with ill-concealed contempt. 
The Sportsmen clutch their weapons and watch Corbett.  He walks around the camp, spotting a rubber-lined rucksack stuffed with dead ermine.  After a long, tense moment, Corbett smiles. CORBETT Looks like you've had some luck. Where's your guide? SPORTSMAN #1 We're on our own, if it's any of your damn business. CORBETT (re ermine) You did real good. 
He crouches next to the dead animals and strokes the fur. LEMALLE (to Corbett) No swinging shit.  They're over their goddamned limit. CORBETT (to Sportsmen) My friend is right.  Supposed to have a licensed guide when you're on this land, too. SPORTSMAN #1 Hey, we paid our fuckin' permit fees. 
LeMalle amuses himself by pissing in their campfire.  No one notices that in the b.g., quiet Sportsman #3 unzips his parka, exposing a .45 Peacemaker in a belt holster. (CONTINUED) 20   CONTINUED: SPORTSMAN #2 I were you, I'd drive right on outta here again.  Now. CORBETT (calmly) This was my roaming land, 'til the government took it over. Only Innuit can hunt here now, and tourists, like you. 
Corbett swings the rucksack of carcasses onto the hood of the Land Rover.  Pissed, Sportsmen #1 and #2 step closer to him. CORBETT (continuing) According to tribal law, hunters passing through the land of another tribe can only take game to survive.  They can eat the meat, but have to surrender the hides. 
LeMalle pulls a hunting knife and holds up one of the ermine. LEMALLE Want the meat? SPORTSMAN #1 
Fuck you, dirtball. 
Corbett chuckles and Mitchell spits. 
WIDER 
LeMalle digs through the camping goodies in the back of the Land Rover, many still in their packages.  He helps himself to some sandwiches and a 12-pack of beer. LEMALLE I say shoot 'em, bury 'em with their shiny new car. MITCHELL (to LeMalle) If you're gonna take something, take it and let's go. 
Corbett looks down to fasten the top of the rucksack. (CONTINUED) 20   CONTINUED:  (2) 
NEW ANGLE 
Suddenly, Sportsman #3 reaches inside his parka and pulls the pistol.  He swings it toward LeMalle. 
LeMalle looks up when he hears the HAMMER cock. 
There is a deafeningly loud SHOT. 
Sportsman #3 falls down dead at LeMalle's feet. 
Off to one side, Corbett holds a huge, smoking .44 magnum six-shooter in his hand. 
Meyerling smiles like a toad, then slaps another poster on the wall.  LeMalle throws his knife and it STICKS in the poster between Meyerling's spread fingers.  Meyerling jumps back and the trappers laugh.  Meyerling looks to Wilder for support. WILDER (to Meyerling) One flier comes loose and I shoot you for littering. MEYERLING (exiting; grudgeless) Have your fun... just remember The People's Friend come election day. WILDER (shakes his head) Oil Company candidate running on that slogan makes about as much sense as a rat fucking a grapefruit. CORBETT Hard to work up an interest in politics, way we live.  You're the first people we've seen in two weeks. (CONTINUED) 23   CONTINUED:  (2) LEMALLE (to Kenai) How about a quart of Jack Daniel's? KENAI How about it is right.  Back in the primary this town was voted dry. LEMALLE (to Corbett) Aw, shit.  Let's go.  Leave a note for Viking Bob, tell him to meet us in Cache. CORBETT Relax.  One more day without drink won't kill you.  Right, Sam? WILDER I'm living proof of that sad fact. CORBETT Can we buy the Marshal some dinner? WILDER No, I better stay at my post. 
Even without the hootch riling 'em up, you know how mean-spirited folks get when they smell winter coming. 
24   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON VALLEY - LONG SHOT - NIGHT 
An early STORM has blown in from the north, bringing whipping winds and freezing rain. 
25   INT.  RENTAL CABIN 
Corbett peers out the tiny window, frowning.  LeMalle cleans his carbine while eating beans and bacon.  Mitchell hunches over a table.  He's making a scrimshaw -- delicately engraving, using homemade tools, on a palm-sized piece of whale bone.  He rubs his eyes and looks up at Corbett. MITCHELL So much for the walking weather you predicted. (CONTINUED) 25   CONTINUED: CORBETT Had no choice... (pointedly, at LeMalle) ...Given the situation. MITCHELL I know.  Least you didn't shoot all of them. LEMALLE Fuck you, Mitchell.  Woulda been my ass if Ben didn't waste that prick. CORBETT (after a beat) Mitchell, look, it don't take three of us to wait for Viking Bob. 
Mitchell glances at LeMalle, then at Corbett. CORBETT (continuing) Go ahead.  Take the jeep.  I'll come to Cache with Bob when he gets here. MITCHELL Okay by me.  You're the one likes these hot springs so much. CORBETT Leave my traps.  We'll tag up, couple days. 
26   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - "THE TURTLE" - DAY 
The winds have died down.  The rain has turned to a light snow. 
A mobile arctic dwelling sits on a rise next to the Haul Road.  It's a double-unit weathertight cocoon of fiberglass and aluminum, pulled by a diesel rig on oversized tires. The front module is 12 by 24, the rear 12 by 18. 
An extended-cab pickup pulls up and Sam Wilder gets out. The gravel-and-dirt Haul Road, paralleling the pipeline for 400 miles, is closed to the public.  An arriving vehicle, therefore, is news.  The front door of the dwelling opens. Eric and Anne Marie come outside, delighted to see Wilder. (CONTINUED) 26   CONTINUED: WILDER I was making my rounds, saw your hangar wide open, plane getting rained on, so I closed it up. ERIC Thanks. ANNE MARIE (to Wilder) I bet you haven't had lunch. WILDER (smiles) Bet you're right.  But I didn't come by to wangle a meal -- ERIC -- We appreciate the company. Anne Marie's getting cabin fever already. 
Anne Marie shoots a look at Eric but doesn't disagree -- this is obviously an issue with them.  Wilder looks with amusement at the mobile dwelling. WILDER What'd you say they call these spaceships? ERIC Mobile Arctic Dwelling -- MAD. ANNE MARIE I call it 'the Turtle,' as in carrying your home on your back. ERIC Best thing is, Meyerling has to chase around to find us. ANNE MARIE (laughs) The little creep hates it that Eric actually does what the company hired him to do. WILDER Watch it with Meyerling.  Man's as mean and corrupt as they get. Cut his mother's throat if it'd get him a couple votes. (CONTINUED) 26   CONTINUED:  (2) 
Looking past Wilder, Eric points out some smoke on the horizon. ERIC Hey, Sam, look over there.  Black and white smoke. WILDER Damn.  Likely that's an SOS. Have to pass on that lunch. ERIC We'll go with you. CUT TO: 
27   EXT.  SPORTSMEN'S CAMP - LATER THAT DAY 
Everything seems peaceful enough.  The SOS fire (made from burning green branches for white smoke and rubber for black smoke) has burnt down to embers. 
Eric, Anne Marie and Wilder pull up in Wilder's pickup. 
The two Sportsmen sit in the front seat of the Land Rover, but they don't react to the arrival of the rescuers.  In the back seat, a reflective camping blanket covers a large mass. 
Something is amiss.  Eric shoots a look of trepidation at Anne Marie as they get out of the pickup.   Wilder pulls the door of the Land Rover open. 
A Sportsman slumps out onto the ground.  His eyes are open and his tongue pokes out between his lips.  His skin is blue-white. (He looks, in fact, much like Eric's nightmare.) 
Startled, Eric steps back.  Anne Marie gasps with horror. Wilder unzips the Sportsman's light windbreaker and listens for a heartbeat.  Nothing. WILDER Stupid goddamn greenhorns!  Froze to death. ANNE MARIE It's not even winter! WILDER They got wet in the rain.  Core body temperature dropped, got drowsy, probably didn't even know what was happening. 
Eric stares at the dead Sportsmen. (CONTINUED) 27   CONTINUED: WILDER (continuing) Question is why they sat here when the storm moved in.  Check their stuff while I sniff around. 
Wilder tries the ignition.  The starter TURNS OVER, but the engine makes a horrendous GRINDING.  He walks to the front of the vehicle.  Noticing the bullet holes in the grille, he bends down for a closer look. 
NEW ANGLE 
Eric opens the rear hatchback and digs through the plentiful supplies.  Still in their packages are some matchbox-sized ELT locating beacons. ERIC They had Emergency Locater Transmitters, but didn't use them. (opens one up; shakes his head) Maybe because they didn't bring batteries. 
CLOSE 
Anne Marie opens the back door of the Land Rover.  She pulls back the camping blanket... and uncovers the third Sportsman.  The torn red flesh on his head and his bugged-out eyes are a hideous sight. 
as he leads Corbett along the boardwalk to the other end of town.  They approach a prefab house perched on skids under a tall antenna tower.  Mounted above the shack, a DC wind charger turbine spins lazily in the faint breeze.  From within the cabin comes an anomalous SOUND -- MTV.  Wilder KNOCKS on the door. 
ARTHUR NEFF, a pasty-white, 45-year-old ex-Texan, pulls the door open.  His customary grin fades when he sees Corbett. 
33   INT.  NEFF'S HOUSE 
Wilder pushes Corbett inside past Neff. WILDER I need to call Fairbanks. 
Neff just stares at Corbett. WILDER (continuing) Neff!  Dial it up.  State police. 
With a "what can I do but oblige?" look to Corbett, Neff sits in front of the RCA Alascom radio telephone and dials. (CONTINUED) 33   CONTINUED: NEFF (on phone) Fairbanks Alascom?  Patch me through to the State Police. 
After a moment, he hands the receiver to Wilder.  Wilder takes it, keeping one eye and the shotgun on Corbett. WILDER (on phone) This is Sam Wilder, Marshal in Devil's Cauldron.  Had some killings here.  I got a suspect; be real nice if someone came and took him off my hands. STATE POLICEMAN (VO) (thru phone) On a good day I couldn't spare a crosswalk guard.  But now, no way.  Folks're batshit with the weather turning sour.  Bring him in yourself. WILDER (on phone) Next plane's not coming 'til next Monday. STATE POLICEMAN (VO) (thru phone) Sit your suspect out in the cold. He'll keep. WILDER (on phone) This man's friends ain't gonna look favorably on his incarceration. STATE POLICEMAN (VO) (thru phone; Mr. Glib) So shoot him.  Won't have to feed him that way -- 
Angry, Wilder slams the receiver down. 
34   INT.  WILDER'S CABIN 
In one room, there is a wood-burning cookstove and an Ashley heat stove, a table, a bunk and a small window.  Behind a cloth partition is an eight by six holding cell.  The frame of an iron-bar door is securely cemented to the log walls. Wilder comes in with Corbett and locks him in the cell. (CONTINUED) 34   CONTINUED: CORBETT Mind if I get some stuff from my kit? 
Wilder does mind.  He locks the duffel bag and Corbett's .44 in his desk drawer. CORBETT (continuing) Sam, listen -- I shot to defend my man.  Other guy drew first. WILDER If that was all, fine.  But carving him up, stranding the others, that's too fucking much. Is everything that walks, crawls, flies or swims fair game to you? CORBETT (softly) I'll get loose before that plane comes. WILDER Don't try me.  I'll kill you if it comes to it. 
35   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - AFTERNOON 
As Eric walks into Kenai's general store, Neff hurries over. NEFF Mr. Desmond! (grins; sticks his hand out) Arthur Neff.  Area rep for the Federal Assistance Plan.  Tell the boys in DC to keep those goodies coming. ERIC Sure. NEFF Snowplow, generator, TV dish... hell, we get the goddamn Playboy Channel!  Here, this is for you. 
He hands Eric a piece of styrofoam shaped like a commode seat. (CONTINUED) 35   CONTINUED: NEFF (continuing) 
Warm to forty below.  Remember, anything you want, you ask Arthur Neff. 
36   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - NIGHT 
The storm has passed.   A faint CHUGGING emanates from the small orange generator trailer behind the Turtle.  Eric pulls up and parks the Scout. 
37   INT.  THE TURTLE 
Nylon storage netting along the ceiling holds Eric's research equipment and Anne Marie's photographic supplies. In one corner of the Turtle are several of her black and white prints.  All are of man-made objects whose presence is juxtaposed with the natural surroundings. 
Relieved he's home in one piece, Anne Marie meets Eric at the door and kisses him.  Carrying a brown-paper-wrapped package, Eric follows her into the kitchen, where she's preparing dinner. ANNE MARIE Did you catch Corbett? ERIC Sure did.  He was one of the trappers we rousted from the Haul Road. ANNE MARIE Was there any trouble? ERIC He was sitting in a hot tub with a hooker. ANNE MARIE Going after killers isn't the same as chasing poachers, Eric. ERIC (grins) Can't help myself.  Corbett's type always pisses me off. (hands her the package) Oh, I found this at the post office.  Had your name on it. (CONTINUED) 37   CONTINUED: 
Perplexed, she looks at the return address -- Bloomingdale's.  Delighted, she tears it open.  Inside is a pretty, elegant dress.  Anne Marie kisses him. ANNE MARIE Oh, sweetheart.  It's beautiful! ERIC You were looking at it in the catalog.  Don't know where you can wear it... ANNE MARIE I'll wear it for you.  And I can wear it when we go home.  We won't be here forever. ERIC (frowning) You make it sound like a prison sentence. ANNE MARIE That's not what I meant. ERIC It's exactly what you meant. ANNE MARIE Look, why get into this again. As long as it's working, let's leave it alone.  It's been nice so far.  We're together -- ERIC -- Permanently? ANNE MARIE (sighs) Do I want to be with you permanently?  Yes, I think I do. But be with what you do and the way you live?  That I don't know. C'mon, Eric, until I met you, coming back to Alaska was totally 
out of the question for me.  But I'm here.  I'm getting great pictures, and I'm having fun. (slips her arms around him) I love you. (kisses him) So shut up and let's eat. 
38   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NIGHT 
An old primer-grey station wagon rattles into town and parks.  With an unlit cheroot stuck in his mouth, "VIKING" BOB CORBETT gets out and stretches.  He's 38, six-foot-six, with sandy hair, beard, ruddy skin, and his brother's dark eyes. 
He looks around for some sign of life.  He spots Neff tending one of the windmills and walks over to him. VIKING BOB I'm looking for some trappers. Ben Corbett, Mitchell, LeMalle. Seen 'em? NEFF Yesterday.  Said they were going to Cache.  They were thirsty, but we were voted dry. VIKING BOB Shit. 
As Viking Bob walks back to his station wagon, he notices Kenai poking around in front of Wilder's cabin. 
Laughing, he wrestles her to the rug. 
44   EXT.  HILLS ABOVE DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NIGHT 
There is a full moon and a clear night sky.  Viking Bob's station wagon is parked out of sight.  He sits inside, waiting. 
He hears an ENGINE starting in the distance.  Sitting up, he grabs some binoculars. 
HIS POV 
Wilder's extended cab truck pulls out, heading west. 
45   EXT.  FOOTHILLS - NIGHT 
In the bright moonlight, two people are seen in Wilder's truck as it speeds along a dirt road. 
Viking Bob follows at a discreet distance, headlights off. (CONTINUED) 45   CONTINUED: 
NEW ANGLE 
Viking Bob turns and takes the literal high road -- a narrow trail above the roadway that Wilder's truck is on. 
He zooms ahead and gets in front of his quarry, then drops back down onto the road and waits in ambush. 
As Wilder's truck approaches, Viking Bob turns on his bright lights and crouches behind his car door with a shotgun. 
Wilder's truck screeches to a stop. 
CLOSER 
Kenai gets out with his hands up. 
Viking Bob slowly approaches Wilder's truck. VIKING BOB Ben? 
No answer.  Viking Bob looks in the cab.  Kenai's passenger is Dixie, the Inupiat hooker.  Viking Bob grabs Kenai and pushes the barrel of the shotgun hard against his cheek. VIKING BOB (continuing) Where's Ben Corbett? KENAI I have no argument with you, Bob. Wilder said I could keep his truck if I drove it ten miles away from town. VIKING BOB Where did they go? KENAI He didn't say, but I would guess the opposite way from here. 
Viking Bob shoves Kenai against the truck, then punches him for good measure.  Cussing, he runs back to his station wagon and drives off. CUT TO: 
46   INT.  THE TURTLE - REAR MODULE - NIGHT 
Eric and Anne Marie are asleep.  Eric starts awake at the OS sound of a high-pitched vehicle HORN and an approaching ENGINE. 
47   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE 
Eric pulls the door open.  Wilder is untying Corbett from the snowmobile. WILDER I got an emergency on my hands. 
Corbett smiles at Eric as he walks inside. 
48   INT.  THE TURTLE 
Eric, Wilder and Corbett sit in the front module.  Anne Marie, nervous, wearing a down robe, serves coffee.  She stares at Corbett, trying to reconcile his quiet demeanor with what she saw that afternoon.  Corbett smiles at Eric. WILDER (to Eric) ...You give us a ride in the Cessna you got hangared at the pumping station, we'll be in Fairbanks in a few hours. ERIC That's what we should've done in the first place. WILDER I could've sat tight for the transport, 'til Bob came poking around. CORBETT (to Wilder; re Anne Marie) A lot to ask, dragging him away from such a good-looking girl -- ERIC (irritated) -- To take you to jail?  It'll be my pleasure. WILDER (to Eric) You better get some sleep. CORBETT Good idea.  Flying over mountains can give you some nasty surprises.  Go too low, one of the clouds might have a big rock inside it. (CONTINUED) 48   CONTINUED: ERIC (hard) I'll get you there all right. 
Covering Corbett with the rifle, Eric handcuffs him to the sturdy metal bracket of a wall unit. 
54   EXT.  CACHE, ALASKA - (MOVING SHOT) - NIGHT 
Viking Bob approaches in his station wagon on a narrow dirt road.  The huge night sky all but smothers the weak light from the town up ahead. 
Cache seems a mistake -- a jumble of unpainted buildings in the middle of a big nothing, twenty miles north of the Arctic Circle.  Still, it's more animated than Devil's Cauldron.  There are a hundred permanent residents, several taverns and a three-store, fly-in shopping center. (CONTINUED) 54   CONTINUED: 
Even though it's the middle of the night, people roam the streets, drinking and socializing.  With only a couple feet of snow on the ground, this is still summertime.  Under storefront awnings, drunken INDIANS sleep on the concrete. 
Viking Bob cruises the main drag, looking for the other trappers.  He spots their jeep in front of a dangerous-looking saloon called the "Bear Sign Inn." 
ANGLE WITH VIKING BOB 
as he parks and gets out of his station wagon.  He hears a familiar VOICE around the side of the building. LEMALLE (OS) C'mon, girl, talk to me, negotiate with me... 
55   EXT.  CACHE - ALLEY 
Drunk, LeMalle stands in an alley with a bored, acne-scarred Oriental PROSTITUTE.  He weaves and leers, his hand stuck inside her blouse. VIKING BOB LeMalle.  We got a problem. Where's Mitchell? LEMALLE Goddamn!  Viking Bob!  Mitchell's inside, boring bastard... 
Grumbling, Viking Bob separates LeMalle from the Prostitute and drags him by the collar out of the alley. CUT TO: 
56   INT.  BEAR SIGN INN - NIGHT 
Meyerling's campaign posters cover the walls.  Many have been pulled down and muddied underfoot by the drunken crowd. 
In a booth covered with grafitti, Mitchell squints and works on his scrimshaw.  LeMalle, somewhat sober, eats a plate of muktuk -- whale blubber.  Viking Bob pours him more coffee. MITCHELL (to Viking Bob) ...Ben never sent a signal. VIKING BOB Musta never got a chance to -more- (CONTINUED) 56   CONTINUED: VIKING BOB (Cont'd) activate.  Wilder's aiming to take him to Fairbanks, we can count on that much. MITCHELL Meaning he'll need a plane. VIKING BOB Closest planes for hire are here in Cache. MITCHELL Hang on... (to LeMalle) Remember that Cessna we saw at the pumping station on the Haul Road?  Belongs to the guy they got patrolling the pipeline. LEMALLE There you go.  Wilder's always chummy with the fuckin' Bambi-lovers. VIKING BOB It's a long shot. MITCHELL You got a better idea? 
57   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - DAWN 
Wisps of light cut across the cold blue sky. 
Eric comes out of the Turtle, leaving the front door ajar. He throws a knapsack of supplies into the back of the Scout. 
58   INT.  THE TURTLE 
Corbett's right hand is still handcuffed to the wall unit. Terrified about being alone with Corbett, Anne Marie cautiously puts a cup of coffee in front of him. CORBETT How long have you been up north? ANNE MARIE (after a beat) Six months. CORBETT Can't be.  Too keen a sense of this place in your pictures. (CONTINUED) 58   CONTINUED: ANNE MARIE Six months this time.  I was born in the Aleutians. CORBETT Your people Alaskan? 
Anne Marie doesn't want to talk to a killer, but Corbett is so soft-spoken and charming that she answers despite herself. ANNE MARIE My dad was a Navy doctor. CORBETT Knew you had no native blood, even with your dark hair.  Blue eyes give you away.  My wife had blue eyes. ANNE MARIE Had? CORBETT She's dead. ANNE MARIE Oh. CORBETT Had some good years.  Met her in '66.  She showed up one day in Coldfoot.  No one knew her.  One Sunday morning, she marched into a bar and announced she was available as a wife to the highest bidder.  Didn't work out in three months, she'd return the money and leave, no hard feelings. (off Anne Marie's amazed look) My bid was eight thousand dollars.  Beautiful girl. ANNE MARIE How did she..? CORBETT I was gone, in September, laying traplines.  She went to our cache for some meat.  Got mauled by a bear.  Tore open her skull. -more- (CONTINUED) 58   CONTINUED:  (2) CORBETT (Cont'd) Might've lived if she got help, but the exposed part of her brain froze. 
Anne Marie shudders.  Smiling good-naturedly, Corbett looks around, spotting the package Anne Marie's new dress came in. CORBETT (continuing) What about you -- why come back? Classy girl like you seems more suited to the finer things. ANNE MARIE That's why I left, moved to Washington.  When I met Eric I was doing day shoots -- products and fashion, mostly.  Pretty dull.  Eric was teaching college, and then he got the job with Northland Oil.  We wanted to stay together, so we talked them into funding some wilderness photography... and here I am. 
As she's talking, the Turtle ROCKS slightly.  She looks out the tiny window. 
HER POV - THROUGH WINDOW 
Eric is putting Wilder's body inside an enclosed storage compartment built flush into the side of the Turtle. 
BACK TO SCENE 
Horrified, Anne Marie turns away. CORBETT You should know something. ANNE MARIE I don't want to talk any more. CORBETT Wasn't my intention to hurt Wilder.  I'm telling you the truth.  I liked the man.  I only meant to get loose... to survive. Your cheechako boyfriend better understand that. (beat) Listen, I've got some money put away -- (CONTINUED) 58   CONTINUED:  (3) ANNE MARIE -- Don't ever think you can buy Eric off, Mr. Corbett -- ERIC (OS) -- Cheechako? 
Viking Bob watches, wide-eyed with fury.  Mitchell spits. LeMalle punches the wall.  Then he turns and repeatedly BLASTS the Scout, parked nearby, with his carbine. 
89   INT.  CESSNA - (AERIAL SHOT) 
Eric's knapsack, an emergency kit and several five-gallon cans of aviation fuel are tucked behind the seats. ERIC How the hell were they smart enough to find us? CORBETT Smart?  Sure.  That's why I'm sitting in this plane and they're down there blowing me kisses. 
Eric retracts the landing gear and banks toward the southwest.  Corbett notices that Eric seems a little unsure of the controls. CORBETT (continuing) Been driving long? ERIC I needed a pilot's license to take the job here, so I got one in six weeks. CORBETT That makes the flight more interesting. 
Eric ignores the jibe.  He stays at 2,000 feet, making the landscape all the more immediate. 
Corbett stares out the window and broods.  He spots an open, snow-covered area where some dark blotches mar the whiteness. CORBETT (continuing) See the blood?  Pack of wolves took down a moose.  Greedy, gut-ripping sons of bitches.  I'd kill the last wolf on earth, right in front of the President of the U.S.  Stinking, cowardly predator, the wolf. (CONTINUED) 89   CONTINUED: ERIC Sounds like professional jealousy. CORBETT Hunting and trapping was a damn fine life. (beat) Me and Mitchell, Bob and LeMalle, we were teams.  I'd always go with Mitchell.  Good man, Mitchell.  I'd let Bob worry about goddamn LeMalle.  We'd hire a plane in October.  On the way to a dirt airstrip somewhere, we'd drop supplies.  We'd land, tell the pilot to come back for us a few days before Christmas. 
ANOTHER ANGLE - (AERIAL SHOT) 
While talking in an even tone, Corbett intently studies the instrument panel and scans the landscape below. CORBETT The idea was to get to the supplies before the bears did. Along the route we'd set our traps.  Made our year's living in three months. 
Corbett spots a flat plateau farther in the mountains, above the tree line. CORBETT (continuing) Lot of times we didn't even have a landing strip.  We'd set down on a plateau, like that one there.  Yeah, that one's easy; you could glide right in... 
Suddenly, he turns in the seat and pins Eric against the door with his left foot. 
The plane flies erratically.  With his right foot, Corbett kicks the fuel jettison lever on the instrument panel, jamming it on. 
90   EXT.  CESSNA - (AERIAL SHOT) 
The lever, used to empty the fuel tanks in case of emergency, does so with great expediency.  All the gas is instantly discharged. 
91   INT.  CESSNA - (AERIAL SHOT) 
Corbett releases Eric and calmly sits back up in his seat. 
Eric rubs his neck, incredulous.  Corbett's move was too fast and too outrageous.  In a moment, the engine SPUTTERS to a stop.  Eric struggles to hold the stick steady and glide the plane down to the plateau Corbett pointed out. CORBETT Hope you got your money's worth on those lessons. 
92   EXT.  CESSNA - (AERIAL SHOT) 
There's an even chance of hitting a mountain instead of the plateau.  Eric pushes the Cessna's nose down.  The plateau comes up fast. 
The plane drops lower and lower, pitching and yawing in the wind. 
It CRASH LANDS, its metal underbelly SCREECHING as it hits the jagged granite under the snow.  It stops suddenly, flipping tail over nose. 
93   INT.  CESSNA 
It rests upside down in the snow.  The men are dazed. 
Behind Eric, one of the extra fuel cans, now hanging upside down, leaks gas.  In front of him, the engine is ON FIRE. 
Eric undoes his seat belt and rights himself, but his leg gets caught in the tangled belt.  He pulls out a Swiss Army knife and cuts the rope binding Corbett's handcuffs to the seat.  Corbett pushes the passenger door open.  Panicking, Eric tries to pull loose of his seat belt, painfully wrenching his ankle. 
94   EXT.  CESSNA 
Corbett rolls out into the snow.  With no time to grab his supplies, Eric clambers from the wreckage.  He and Corbett crawl/roll down the incline of the plateau, away from the plane. 
Eric turns, surprised at Corbett's unabashed awe. 
Catching the men's smell the moose bound away, and the spell is broken. 
108  EXT.  MINING SETTLEMENT - EVENING 
Viking Bob, Mitchell and LeMalle head somberly back to Cache.  They drive along a hydraulic gold mining sluice on a nearby river and come into town. 
As the trappers park their jeep, some MINERS greet them, shouting over the ROAR of the water. MINER #1 Where's Ben at? MITCHELL You'll want to hear about it with a drink in your mitt. CUT TO: 
109  INT.  BEAR SIGN INN - CACHE - EVENING 
Outside, a STORM rages.  LeMalle is drunk, but still able to stuff himself with a thick steak.  Mitchell drums his fingers and listens to everyone talk.  With them at the bar are the Miners, LOGGERS, CAT SKINNERS (bulldozer drivers) and some leathery WOMEN. MINER #1 ...Figures, Corbett getting hauled off by a Federal marshal. God almighty, how I hate the U.S. government. LOGGER We should pass a hat.  Send Corbett a few bucks.  We owe him. 
Someone's hat comes off.  It quickly gets filled with bills. MINER #1 Government and business.  They ruined this state. (re Meyerling poster) Like that little weasel, for instance. WOMAN CAT DRIVER 'People's Friend,' my lily-white -more- (CONTINUED) 109  CONTINUED: WOMAN CAT DRIVER (Cont'd) butt.  I heard Northland got a conservation program, up along the pipeline. LOGGER Hold it.  Meyerling told me that stuff's nothing but P.R. for the TV and papers down in Juneau. LEMALLE He's full of shit.  We got run out of there by some fuckhead driving a Northland truck. 
NEW ANGLE 
Viking Bob hurries in and whispers something in Mitchell's ear.  Mitchell shoots LeMalle a look and gets up.  The threesome hastily exit, leaving behind the hat full of money. 
110  INT.  BEAR SIGN INN 
Viking Bob, Mitchell and LeMalle stand in a quiet corner near the front door. VIKING BOB I called the cops in Fairbanks, see when Ben is standing trial. They don't know shit about Ben or Wilder! LEMALLE Get the fuck out of here. VIKING BOB It's a three-hour flight.  They shoulda got there yesterday. LEMALLE Maybe they went back to Devil's Cauldron. MITCHELL Naah, Wilder knows we got friends in town. VIKING BOB That plane might've been to throw us off the track.  Remember the bait-and-switch Wilder pulled with the Eskimo and his truck? (CONTINUED) 110  CONTINUED: LEMALLE Wilder still woulda made Fairbanks by now.  Fuck a duck! Ben musta got loose. VIKING BOB Okay, let's backtrack, try to pick up his trail.  You know the kid out on the pipeline that Wilder's buddies with? MITCHELL (smiles) We were just talking about him. 
111  EXT.  FOREST - CAMPSITE PREPARATION MONTAGE - EVENING 
The STORM brings gusting winds and below-zero temperatures. Eric and Corbett move through the storm in slow motion. Both recognize the need for a truce in the face of a common enemy.  The snow and wind cut through their clothing like razors.  They poke around for dead wood with which to make a fire.  The trees are small and healthy; little is found. CORBETT (shouts over WIND) Just gather birch.  It'll smoke like hell, but it'll burn green. 
Awestruck by the intensity of the storm, Eric tears branches from birch trees and piles them in Corbett's handcuffed arms. 
They hurry back to the nylon tarp, strung between two tree trunks, FLAPPING violently in the storm.  Hunching against the wind, Eric pulls off his gloves and reaches in his pocket for some precious matches.  His fingers are so cold he can't hold them, and he drops several in the wet snow. 
Angry, he shoots a look at Corbett. Corbett is holding his hands inside his coat.  He pulls them out and quickly takes the remaining matches from Eric. 
Crouching down, back to the wind, Corbett grasps a match between his numb fingers and awkwardly strikes it.  He holds the flame next to the kindling.  It doesn't catch fire immediately.  Corbett lets the match burn out against his fingers.  He tries another match.  This time, a flame takes hold but could succumb to the wind at any moment. 
On his knees and elbows, Corbett nurses along the tiny fire. Eric can't control his shivering.  He gets on his knees next to Corbett and holds his coat open to further baffle the wind.  Corbett keeps his hands cupped around the flame, not (CONTINUED) 111  CONTINUED: 
caring that it's burning his skin.  Finally the fire begins to grow.  Relieved, Eric and Corbett look at each other with a glimmer of a grudging mutual respect. 
The fire, now unattended, is smoky as Corbett predicted, but burns along nicely. END MONTAGE 
112  EXT. / INT.  NYLON SHELTER - NIGHT 
Corbett and Eric sit under the nylon shelter.  The STORM rages outside.  Eric empties his pockets of Eskimo potato, reindeer lichens, bistsort sorrel and other plants for his dinner. 
Corbett has fashioned a snare from his boot laces and a tree branch, and placed some crushed roots as aromatic bait next to a small animal burrow outside the shelter.  A squirrel sticks his nose out of the burrow to investigate. 
Corbett sits catlike, ready to pounce.  Eric grimaces as Corbett yanks on the snare and the squirrel's SQUEALS (OS) abruptly cease. 
113  INT.  NYLON SHELTER 
Grimacing, she tries to turn the valve.  After much effort, it SNAPS and opens, releasing a stream of fetid sewage. 
WIDER 
The bear gets a muzzle full of the stuff.  HOWLING unhappily, it backs away, GRUNTING and SNEEZING.  Greatly offended, its appetite gone, it lopes into the forest. 
Anne Marie squirms out from under the Turtle and, gagging from the horrible smell, pulls off her wet parka. CUT TO: 
116  EXT.  WOODS NEAR THE TURTLE - SERIES OF SHOTS - NIGHT 
Wearing one of Eric's coats, Anne Marie stands in the center of three similarly-sized trees.  A FLARE supplies the light. The big Remington rifle leans against the tree closest to her. 
She tosses one end of a hundred feet of nylon rope over a sturdy tree branch twenty-five feet from the ground.  Then she throws the other end over an opposing branch and stretches the rope like a clothesline. (CONTINUED) 116  CONTINUED: 
She attaches a second length of rope perpendicular to the first and throws it over a third tree branch, midway between the other two.  She kneels and ties something BELOW FRAME to the cross-length rope. 
Pulling mightily on the perpendicular rope, she hoists something heavy to the level of the branches.  The flare burns out, plunging the area into darkness. 
Anne Marie wraps the rope around the tree trunk and nervously tries to LIGHT another flare.  As she does, the forest seems closer, sinister, filled with lurking ogres. Seized with an instinctual fear, she grabs the rifle and runs back to the Turtle. FADE TO: 
117  EXT.  ENDICOTT FOOTHILLS - DAY 
The storm has passed, leaving a fresh covering of powdery snow in drifts like sand dunes.  Eric and Corbett trek toward Devil's Cauldron through the ever-thickening forest. Corbett has made them snow goggles by cutting slits in strips of tree bark worn like sunglasses.  Eric, using a tree branch as a walking stick, still limps on his sore ankle.  For the first time, he keeps the magnum stuck in his waistband. CORBETT There's a cabin, maybe twenty miles south of here. ERIC (kneels to adjust his ankle wrap) Too bad we're heading west. CORBETT There's a snowmobile. Inside a day we could be on the Yukon.  I got money there.  Remember that five thousand?  Make it ten.  Be smart.  Take it and walk away. ERIC (bristling) You don't get it, do you? 
Corbett takes advantage of Eric's poor peripheral vision from the visor by kneeing Eric in the face.  Eric falls backwards into the snow.  Corbett takes off like a jackrabbit.  Eric spits out some blood, shakes the stars out of his eyes and yanks the .357 from under his coat. (CONTINUED) 117  CONTINUED: 
ERIC (continuing) Stop! 
Corbett bounds through the snow, dodging trees and snow-covered rocks. 
Eric squeezes off a SHOT, and is startled by the recoil and the blast.  He scrambles to his feet and SHOOTS again. 
Corbett zigzags and disappears from sight over a snowbank. 
NEW ANGLE - FOLLOW CORBETT 
Corbett runs over a frozen stream, invisible under a cover of snow.  Suddenly, the ice SHATTERS under him.  Corbett is immersed in frigid, waist-deep water.  He gasps from the sudden temperature drop. 
ERIC 
hobbles after him, CUSSING bitterly to himself. 
CORBETT 
crawls to solid ground.  Disoriented from the shock to his system, he rolls over to catch his breath. 
WIDER 
Eric appears over a snowbank. 
Corbett tries to run, but his frozen, waterlogged legs feel like pig iron.  Stumbling and panting, he looks for a safe place to cross the stream.  Eric easily catches up to him. Corbett sits in the snow, shivering.  He looks up as Eric trots over. 
121  INT.  THE TURTLE 
Anne Marie brushes her hair and makes herself presentable. 
122  EXT.  THE TURTLE 
The vehicle gets closer.  It's the trappers' jeep.  It slows and parks on the Haul Road next to the Turtle. 
123  INT.  THE TURTLE 
Anne Marie peers out the window.  She gasps as she recognizes the jeep.  Ducking from sight below the window, she grabs Eric's coat and hurries into the rear module. 
124  EXT.  THE TURTLE 
Mitchell stays in the jeep.  Viking Bob and LeMalle get out and walk cautiously toward the Turtle. 
LeMalle stands midway between the jeep and the Turtle, cradling his carbine.  Viking Bob goes up the steps. 
125  INT.  THE TURTLE - REAR MODULE 
Anne Marie remembers something she should've taken with her: the rifle.  Too late.  She hears Viking Bob's FOOTSTEPS (OS) come up the wooden stairs outside. 
126  EXT.  THE TURTLE 
Viking Bob knocks on the front door.  He peers through the sheer curtain on the window, into the front module. VIKING BOB Hullo? 
He shrugs to the others, then tries the door.  It's unlocked. 
Mitchell gets out of the jeep, spits and follows the others in, his hand close to the Colt Peacemaker strapped to his leg. 
127  INT.  THE TURTLE 
Anne Marie climbs out a window in the back.  She closes it behind her just as Viking Bob pokes his head in the rear module. 
The trappers snoop around, noticing that the coffee pot is still warm, etc.  The emptiness is ominous.  LeMalle picks up the big Remington bear rifle.  He opens the breech to determine if it's loaded, and sniffs the barrel to see if (CONTINUED) 127  CONTINUED: 
it's recently been fired.  Viking Bob notices the damaged radio. VIKING BOB Somebody left in a big hurry. (to LeMalle) Check outside. 
128  EXT.  THE TURTLE 
LeMalle goes outside and shines his flashlight around. 
NEW ANGLE 
In the back, Anne Marie drags an evergreen tree branch behind her to cover her tracks in the snow, then climbs into the utility compartment where Wilder's body was stored. 
A moment later, LeMalle comes around the corner.  He notices bear tracks and scat from the prior night's visit. LEMALLE (calls out to others) Grizzly sign.  Looks fresh. 
Viking Bob and Mitchell converge with LeMalle.  They point their flashlights around, spotting footprints and marks going off into the woods. 
129  EXT.  WOODS NEAR THE TURTLE 
They walk in silence.  Corbett tightens the tarp against the cold air and looks at Eric. CORBETT (continuing) Don't judge me.  You're a joke, coming here from a fucked-up culture, telling us what to do! ERIC Yeah, it is fucked up -- but it's not too late to keep that from happening here. CORBETT (temper flaring) All you do is keep folks from working the land, living like they're meant to.  You don't understand shit!  Trappers, hunters -- we're part of the environment.  Who's protecting us? (sourly) I've seen plenty like you.  So -more- (CONTINUED) 134  CONTINUED:  (2) CORBETT (Cont'd) full of yourselves there's no room for other people's way of life. ERIC What do you know about people? You live like an animal!  A savage goddamn throwback like you belongs out here, as far away from the rest of us as possible. CORBETT I'm real sad you don't approve of me. 
He shoves Eric with his handcuffed hands. CORBETT (continuing) Tell me what I should do, Professor.  You got all the answers.  I shouldn't hunt? Fine, I'll just phone up and have a salad delivered. 
Livid, Eric backs away and knocks Corbett's hands away from him. ERIC Don't push me..! CORBETT Cowardly bastard.  I'm in handcuffs and I still scare the piss out of you. 
Eric smashes his fist into Corbett's face.  Corbett reels back, more surprised than hurt.  Eric moves in, furiously throwing punches.  Corbett plows his clenched fists into Eric's midsection, doubling him over.  Gasping, Eric rams his head into Corbett and they fall into the snow. 
Despite the handcuffs, Corbett gets a few blows in.  They wrestle fiercely, and Eric ends up on top of Corbett.  He's about to throw another punch when Corbett looks up at him. CORBETT (continuing) First you save my ass, now you want to kill me.  Make up your goddamn mind. (CONTINUED) 134  CONTINUED:  (3) 
Eric lowers his fist and climbs off of Corbett.  Corbett gets up and they continue on their way in sullen silence. 
135  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - DAY 
Sunday morning.  Chimney smoke rises straight up in the still morning air and mingles with the wisps of fog hanging above the Devil's Cauldron valley. 
A scratchy RECORDING of a HYMN ("We Will Gather at the River") plays through a PA system, ECHOING forlornly off the hills.  The PEOPLE of Devil's Cauldron walk through the new snow to the center of the settlement.  Some, older Women mostly, head for the dance hall, where the HYMN originates. 
136  INT.  DANCE HALL 
The Women SING along with the HYMN.  They face a shelf holding the PA, a rusty TV and record player.  And, in front of the shelf, an unmanned pulpit. 
137  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON 
The Men, including Neff, split off from their mates and go into the Maqi. 
138  INT.  MAQI 
Neff joins some other Men sweating on benches in the primitive steam bath.   Kenai sits closest to the fire.  His thick glasses are steamed up, but he finally looks warm. NEFF Wilder's missing church services; you believe it? KENAI I just as soon he stay gone. Fool could've got us all killed, arresting Ben Corbett here in town. 
139  EXT.  FOOTHILLS ABOVE DEVIL'S CAULDRON - DAY 
Exhausted, Corbett and Eric climb across the last set of foothills before the Devil's Cauldron valley.  The town comes into view below them; faintly the MUSIC carries from below.  Corbett looks at Eric and breaks the silence: CORBETT What makes you so sure my boys won't be waiting for us? (CONTINUED) 139  CONTINUED: ERIC They think you're in Fairbanks. If not, they still won't find you before the plane comes tomorrow. CORBETT Don't bet on it. ERIC I already have. CORBETT You don't know how true that is. 
Eric sweeps the snow from between two rocks and sits down. ERIC We'll wait here until nightfall. No fire, no tarp. 
Corbett sits next to him.  After a long moment: CORBETT Didn't mean it, you being a coward.  You're a lot of things, 
but chickenshit isn't one of them. ERIC Maybe...maybe not.  I'll tell you what scares me -- stumbling through life, like an ordinary jerk.  That's why I want to work on the front lines, where what I do means something. (beat) Soon as I got here, I realized my job was bullshit.  Oil company propaganda.  I was ready to leave, then I thought screw it, I'll outsmart them, do the work anyway. (beat) I don't know anymore.  Maybe I am fooling myself.  That's what I'm afraid of most of all. CORBETT Hell, I still get a knot in my gut every season, wondering how much longer I can go on.  No 'Home for Retired Trappers' that -more- (CONTINUED) 139  CONTINUED:  (2) CORBETT (Cont'd) I ever saw.  We're like Eskimos -- get too old to be useful, we're left on the ice to die. 
The men listen to the faint MUSIC echoing through the silent foothills. CORBETT (continuing; softly) My wife used to go to chapel on Sundays.  See her friends, 'cause I was away so much. (beat) Should've been home that day. She'd be getting dressed right about now... 
Eric glances over as a look of utter desolation crosses Corbett's face. 
140  EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - DAY 
The trappers file out the front door. VIKING BOB My guess is he's loose and heading for Chukfoktulik.  He'll need supplies; that's the closest settlement without a lawman. 
LeMalle carries his booty with him.  Viking Bob looks at him disapprovingly as he puts the big Remington rifle in the jeep. LEMALLE I ain't gonna leave a seven- hundred-dollar Remington behind. VIKING BOB (exasperated) What you gonna do with it?  Large bore's for shit on small game. LEMALLE Not in the right hands it ain't. 
To demonstrate, he rapid-fires several SHOTS from the hip, taking the radio antenna off the roof of the Turtle, shattering panes of glass in an accurate succession, and blasting the door latch off the utility compartment. (CONTINUED) 140  CONTINUED: 
Corbett sits up as Eric hands him a plate of beans. CORBETT (continuing) You were real resourceful out there.  Got me thinking of this perimeter man, froze all his fingers one winter.  So he hacked the tips off and sharpened the exposed bones.  Gets along better than ever.  Yeah, maybe I underestimated you. ERIC I liked you better frozen.  You didn't talk so much. CORBETT You're damn lucky, glimpsing this country before it's ruined, gone for good.  You saw wonders you'd only dreamed of.  That alone makes you different than the sorry bastards back where you came from, because you have dreamt them. 
Corbett sees he's hit a nerve with Eric. CORBETT (continuing) Remember that demon in the gut? Sometimes it's nothing more than wondering if the so-called civilized life has bred the balls and brains out of you.  That's what you want out of this, isn't it? (CONTINUED) 150  CONTINUED: ERIC All I want want is you in jail -- 
A KNOCK at the door interrupts.  Eric lowers the flame on the gas lantern and peers out through a corner of the cardboard in the front window.  Frowning, he cracks the door open and slips outside. 
151  EXT.  WILDER'S CABIN 
It's Neff and Kenai.  Neff looks guiltily at Eric. NEFF (explaining) He saw you and Corbett come in... KENAI Dixie's waiting at the infirmary. She'll put a splint on that injured leg. 
Eric is skeptical of Kenai's concern. NEFF Don't let him fool you.  Real reason he's here is to buy Corbett's traps. 
Eric looks at Kenai, then at Neff.  Neff nods that it's okay.  As extra precaution, Eric handcuffs Corbett's right wrist to the frame of the cot inside the cell. ERIC (to Kenai) Okay.  You can talk to him.  But I'll keep the keys with me. 
152  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA - NIGHT 
Outside the wind HOWLS.  Eric enters and walks into the hallway connecting the bath partitions.  A hand grabs his arm.  Startled, he turns around. 
It's Dixie, wearing a threadbare flannel robe. DIXIE Earl says you get discount. Twenty-five dollar. 
Eric shakes his head -- typical Kenai.  He gives her three tens.  She smiles and leads Eric toward the "infirmary." It's actually a bath partition outfitted with an examining table and a first-aid kit. 
153  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN - NIGHT 
Neff paces nervously.  Corbett smiles at him and Kenai. NEFF (apologetically) Look, Ben, we don't want any trouble.  The kid's got the key, and besides, he looks edgy enough to use that magnum he's carrying. CORBETT Relax.  I'll get loose in time. KENAI Any traps you don't want, I'll pay cash money. CORBETT Guess someone should use them. Open the bottom drawer in Wilder's desk.  My kit's in there.  Might as well unload everything. 
Kenai tugs on the drawer.  It's locked.  Undaunted, he jimmies it open with a knife.  Neff groans.  Kenai goes to throw Corbett the duffel bag, but Neff grabs it.  He checks for weapons, pulling out a hunting knife.  Satisfied, he hands Corbett the bag through the bars. 
With his free hand, Corbett digs through his belongings: clothing, freeze-dried provisions, jerky, paperback books. He looks up and shrugs. 
154  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA - NIGHT 
Eric's ankle is in a resin cast.  His foot rests on a stool. While waiting for the cast to set he soaks in the bathtub, a hot towel draped over his face.  Above him, on a wall bracket, a closed circuit TV plays a war-surplus PORNO FILM. 
The door CREAKS open and Dixie comes in.  She impassively checks his cast -- which is interesting, as she's now wearing panties, clog shoes and nothing else.  Eric takes the towel off his face and sits up, astonished. DIXIE I wash your back for you.  You will like it. 
Before Eric can protest, the door OPENS again.  It's Meyerling.  He snaps his fingers at Dixie to shoo her and she scurries away. (CONTINUED) 154  CONTINUED: MEYERLING I hate to interrupt playtime, but why the hell are you caught up in a local matter when I gave you express instructions to the contrary?! ERIC Cut the shit, Leo.  I might need your help... 
155  EXT.  CHUKFOKTULIK, ALASKA - NIGHT 
Consisting of a handful of sod-roof cabins, mostly bars, Chukfoktulik is a way station in the coniferous forest, sixty miles southeast of Devil's Cauldron. 
156  INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP 
With the seats pushed back, LeMalle peels the town's lone WHORE out of her parka.  He's got the motor running for warmth.  Her gold tooth glints in the light from the building next to them.  The locating screen on the beat-up radio beacon receiver bolted to the dash GLOWS phosphorescent green. WHORE They got nice beds upstairs, honey. LEMALLE I'm standin' guard duty. Besides, rather spend the room money on sloppy seconds. 
Over the sound of LeMalle's exertions there begins an insistent succession of BEEPS.  The Whore looks over LeMalle's shoulder at the locating device. WHORE Hey, Tiger -- 
LeMalle turns and immediately loses interest in the Whore. Pushing her off of him, he blows the jeep's HORN three times. 
157  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA - NIGHT 
Outside, there is the high-pitched WHINE of a snowmobile (OS) driving into town.  Eric cautiously follows the SOUND. 
165  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - CLOSE ON ERIC 
He listens as the vehicle cuts across town toward Neff's house.  The snowfall is too thick to see who it is.  Eric (CONTINUED) 165  CONTINUED: 
moves in as close as he dares.  The ENGINE stops (OS) and FOOTSTEPS crunch up Neff's driveway. 
WIDER ANGLE - NEFF'S HOUSE 
A person in a hooded parka stands on Neff's stoop, about to knock.  Magnum drawn, Eric suddenly appears from the curtain of falling snow.  He shoves the person against the side of the house. 
NEW ANGLE 
It's Anne Marie.  She gasps.  Seeing Eric, she's more angry than relieved.  Eric puts the gun back in his waistband. ANNE MARIE Eric!  Why aren't you in Fairbanks? 
He pulls her away from Neff's doorstep.  Her anger dissolving, she wraps her arms around him. ANNE MARIE (continuing) Oh, Christ, sweetheart.  Four days!  I thought you were dead, or worse. ERIC You can't stay here.  Go back to the Turtle.  I'll meet you back there in a few hours. ANNE MARIE (stung by his coolness) What's going on? ERIC I'll tell you everything later. ANNE MARIE Where's Corbett? ERIC Here.  A transport plane is due at eleven.  Once I put him on it, it's all over. ANNE MARIE So what's the problem? (CONTINUED) 165  CONTINUED:  (2) ERIC There isn't one, unless Corbett's men get here before the plane does. 
Anne Marie grasps the situation with a sickening clarity. ANNE MARIE Let the people here handle it. It's their marshal Corbett killed! 
CUTAWAY - NEFF 
has been eavesdropping on the conversation through his window.  The news about Wilder stuns him. 
BACK TO SCENE ERIC Please, Anne Marie, you being here only complicates things. ANNE MARIE I'm staying. 
Eric knows she won't relent. ERIC Take the snowmobile, park it behind Wilder's cabin. 
Sighing, she STARTS the snow machine.  Most of her photo gear is lashed to the saddlebags.  As she pulls away, Eric limps back to Neff's house and knocks on the door. INT.  NEFF'S HOUSE 
Shaken, Neff opens the door and lets Eric in. NEFF I was just on my way to your ladyfriend's, but I guess she found you. ERIC Yeah.  Sorry I barked at you last night. NEFF I'm the one should be sorry... Goddamn Kenai, always out for a score.  I never should've let him go over there. (CONTINUED) 165  CONTINUED:  (3) ERIC I'd sure like that favor you offered a while back. 
Neff gets a seasick look on his face. NEFF Look, Mr. Desmond, I didn't count on it turning this ugly. ERIC What are you talking about? NEFF Bastards killed Sam, you think they won't kill the rest of us? ERIC There'll be three, four men at the most.  I have some backup, nothing will happen. NEFF I'm real sorry.  In a while, you're gone from this country. But we live here.  No one wants to mix it up with those hombres. 
Neff opens the door for Eric. ERIC (angry) You don't care enough about Sam to -- NEFF -- Sam Wilder was my cousin. He's why I came to Alaska.  All his letters, saying what a paradise it is.  But me ending up dead won't do Sam a lick of good. 
166  EXT.  WILDER'S CABIN 
Anne Marie waits in front as Eric hobbles up.  She looks at his bad ankle. ANNE MARIE You're hurt. ERIC Nothing broken.  C'mon, we have to hurry. 
He leads her inside. 
167  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN 
Corbett is calmly reclining on the cot in the holding cell. CORBETT Could've told you no one would help... 
Seeing Anne Marie, he smiles. CORBETT (continuing; to Anne Marie) Maybe you can talk sense into your boyfriend. ERIC Shut up! CORBETT (to Anne Marie) 
Either way, you better clear out. I don't want anyone innocent getting harmed. 
This comment has the intended effect on Anne Marie.  Angry, Eric throws Corbett a coat.  Corbett puts it on.  Reaching through the bars, Eric cuffs Corbett's hands together. ERIC We're moving.  Let's go. 
Eric points the magnum at Corbett. ERIC Answer and I'll shoot! CORBETT You kill me, you sign your death warrant. (re Anne Marie) And hers. 
173  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI 
Viking Bob and Mitchell come running over to LeMalle. LeMalle fires another couple SHOTS for emphasis. LEMALLE (calls out) You hear me?  Ben? VIKING BOB (to LeMalle) Ease off.  We do this my way. 
He and the others strain their ears for a clue. VIKING BOB (continuing; calls out) Whoever's holding Ben Corbett, listen to me: we just want to know he's okay.  He is, nobody gets hurt. 
174  INT.  RENTAL CABIN 
His mind racing, Eric stares at Corbett.  Despite the freezing temperature of the room, he's sweating. CORBETT They know I'm here.  I don't say something, they'll plow this town under.  You willing to accept that responsibility? 
Setting his resolve, Eric drags Corbett to the window.  He pushes the barrel of the magnum against Corbett's cheek. ERIC Say you're okay.  Tell them I'll kill you if they rush us. 
Anne Marie bites her lip and tries to maintain a brave front.  Despite the gun in his face, Corbett remains calm. CORBETT (shouts through window) Bob? 
175  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI 
Hearing Corbett's voice, the trappers spin around, trying to ascertain its direction. CORBETT (OS) Relax.  I got a nervous man here with a magnum up my nose. (CONTINUED) 175  CONTINUED: 
The trappers follow his VOICE toward the rental cabins. VIKING BOB You in one piece? CORBETT (OS) I'm fine.  Look forward to seeing you... VIKING BOB Count on it. 
176  INT.  RENTAL CABIN 
Eric pulls Corbett away from the window.  He shoots a look at Anne Marie.  They're in a bind and she knows it. 
177  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI 
LeMalle grabs Viking Bob's arm. LEMALLE (to Viking Bob) Sweet-talk won't get shit. (calls out) Choose it, asswipe -- cut Corbett loose, or soon as you come outside, I put a fuckin' bullet through your eye! 
178  INT.  RENTAL CABIN 
Eric glances at Corbett, whose grim look certifies LeMalle's boast. CORBETT Snow's to their advantage, kid. You can't see them, but soon as that plane comes, they'll sure as hell know where we're going. Wise up.  Take me to the Yukon. I'll give you that money and guarantee you'll walk away. ERIC Why offer a buyoff with your gunmen waiting outside? CORBETT The time has passed for men like them and me.  I know it.  But they're still fighting for survival, like cornered animals. That's why they'll kill you. -more- (CONTINUED) 178  CONTINUED: CORBETT (Cont'd) (smiles) Be rude to let that happen after you kept me from freezing back there. 
Anne Marie tries to hide how tempted she is by Corbett's offer. ANNE MARIE (to Eric) He's right about the snow.  We're blind. 
Eric sighs -- is she against him, too?  From outside: VIKING BOB (OS) Ben? 
The trappers are obviously much closer.  Eric signals to Corbett not to answer. 
NEW ANGLE 
Eric and Corbett face the window.  They don't notice as Anne Marie quietly shimmies outside through the narrow dumb waiter shaft to the back of the rental cabin.  Eric turns, gasping as he realizes she's gone.  Corbett smiles sardonically. CORBETT At least your girl had the sense to jump ship.  Too bad she's the only one small enough to fit through that dumb waiter. 
179  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - FOLLOW ANNE MARIE 
Using the cover of the snowfall, Anne Marie circles around the outside edge of town toward Wilder's cabin.  She takes some of her photo gear from the snowmobile. 
180  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI 
Unaware of Anne Marie's maneuver, the trappers wait for a response from Corbett.  None comes.  Viking Bob places a calming hand on LeMalle's shoulder. VIKING BOB Just wait, we don't know what this guy's up to.  Ben'll let us know what to do. 
ERIC AND CORBETT 
start toward the airstrip.  Corbett sees a patch of bare dirt and SCUFFS his feet in it. 
ANGLE NEAR MAQI 
The trappers turn to the SOUND, heard under the RUMBLE of the still-distant plane.  Converging, they head in that direction.  Suddenly, Anne Marie's VOICE booms through the town: ANNE MARIE (OS) (over PA) They're moving toward you! 
WIDER 
Eric SHOOTS a couple times, then backtracks and pulls Corbett behind one of the rental cabins. 
Ducking the bullets, the trappers sprawl onto the ground. 
187  INT.  DANCE HALL 
Anne Marie has turned on the rusty TV near the pulpit. While watching the infrared IMAGE of the action outside, she holds the microphone wired to the old PA. 
ANGLE - THE TRAPPERS 
Viking Bob gestures to Mitchell and LeMalle to separate. ANNE MARIE (OS) (over PA) They're fanning out. 
Angry, LeMalle BLASTS his rifle in direction of her VOICE. LEMALLE (to Viking Bob) Kenai's PA -- but how the fuck she seein' us? VIKING BOB Doesn't matter.  We know where they're going.  C'mon. 
Stalking, anxious, LeMalle follows Viking Bob. (CONTINUED) 187  CONTINUED: 
MITCHELL 
splits off from them and looks for footprints in the snow. 
188  EXT.  ALLEY 
Eric pushes Corbett through a narrow pass between two buildings in the center of town.  He walks in Corbett's footprints.  Almost through to the other side, he suddenly stops.  Pulling Corbett with him, Eric walks backwards, still carefully placing each foot in an existing footprINT. Corbett can't help but smile. 
189  INT.  DANCE HALL 
Watching the TV screen, Anne Marie sees one of the red blips change direction and head toward her. ANNE MARIE (into mic) One is moving back toward the cabins. 
190  EXT.  DANCE HALL 
It's LeMalle.  He crosses to Kenai's generator.  With a well-placed rifle SHOT to its innards, he GRINDS it to a halt. 
191  INT.  DANCE HALL 
The TV PICTURE disappears as the power dies.  Anne Marie keys the PA microphone; it's dead, too. 
192  EXT.  ALLEY 
Eric and Corbett emerge from between the buildings.  Eric backtracks toward the hot springs spa, now leaving an obvious trail. 
193  EXT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA 
Anne Marie slides onto the seat. ANNE MARIE You can't leave yet. PILOT It's my responsibility to get this aircraft out of here safely. 
Anne Marie points the .44 at him. PILOT (continuing) You got to be kidding. ANNE MARIE Leave the engines idling.  Go back and open the side door. 
Shaking his head and muttering, the Pilot unfastens his seat belt, climbs between the two seats to the cargo compartment, and obliges the little lady with the big gun. 
212  INT.  AIRSTRIP DEPOT 
The depot, as temporary-looking as the rest of Devil's Cauldron, is a boxcar-shaped loading dock and warehouse with a corrugated steel roof.  Boxes, wood palettes and hand dollies are piled haphazardly about. 
Eric and Corbett navigate through the piles of boxes, inching toward the front door -- the door leading to the plane. 
Suddenly, a string of overhead lights come on.  Eric goes for the .357, then stops when he sees Meyerling, Kenai and Neff have come in the front door.  Kenai stomps his feet and shivers.  Grandstanding for the others, Meyerling steps forward. MEYERLING Nobody wants any more killings; we all agree to that, correct? (no one argues) That's good.  Now, Eric, you're gonna hand your prisoner over to us. ERIC Fuck you. MEYERLING This isn't your concern.  It's over, here and now. CORBETT (to Meyerling) Sure, when you put a bullet in my back on the way out.  Easier for all involved. MEYERLING Not a bad idea.  Face it, Ben. There's no room in Alaska for you any more. 
Meyerling pokes with his foot at a tipped-over rack of Eskimo paraphernalia -- masks, furs, big skin drums, fish- and bear-spears. MEYERLING (continuing) You're as antiquated as this shit. 
Meyerling moves toward Corbett, but Eric stands in his way. (CONTINUED) 212  CONTINUED: ERIC Keep back. CORBETT You're quite a piece of work, Meyerling.  The tide changes, you ride right along with it. 
Eric looks at Neff. ERIC Neff, you know better than this... NEFF You're an outsider, Mr. Desmond. Step aside; stay out of it. 
Kenai and Neff move in with Meyerling.  Eric stands his ground and reaches for the .357 in his belt. 
NEW ANGLE 
Suddenly, LeMalle stumbles into the depot, the blankets and furs dragging at his feet.  His right side is bathed in blood.  Half-frozen, bled dry, he looks ready to drop down dead.  In his left hand, impossibly, he still clutches the massive Remington. 
He hoists it to his hip and grits his teeth as he BOLTS a round into the chamber with his injured right arm.  Bracing himself, he levels the rifle at Eric. 
Hearing the ACTION of the rifle, Eric turns. 
Corbett reaches down, grabs a rusty Eskimo spear in both his handcuffed hands, and hurls it. 
There is a deafening ROAR as LeMalle's rifle discharges. 
LeMalle flies back from the recoil -- and from the spear stuck clear through his chest. 
Some packing material above Eric's head smolders, ignited by the muzzle blast. 
NEW ANGLE 
There is a moment of silence.  Corbett looks at the other weapons near him, and then at Meyerling.  Threatened, Meyerling pulls out a .380 automatic.  Before Eric can do anything, Meyerling FIRES. 
The IMPACT of the bullet throws Corbett against some boxes. (CONTINUED) 212  CONTINUED:  (2) 
With a YELL, Eric jumps Meyerling and rips the gun from his grasp.  Enraged, he pummels Meyerling with it until Kenai and Neff pull them apart.  Eric wrenches away from them and scrambles to his feet with Meyerling's gun in his hand. ERIC (continuing) Anybody moves and I'll shoot! 
Holding the .380 on them, Eric crosses to Corbett.  Bleeding from the abdomen, he's trying to stand up. ERIC (continuing) Can you walk? CORBETT Wound's a through-and-through. Missed my liver, I think. ERIC Let's get out of here. 
Cautiously backing away from the others, Eric helps Corbett get up and shuffle toward the OS SOUND of the cargo plane. 
213  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - AIRSTRIP 
