THE ARTIST 
Written by 
Michel Hazanavicius 
Silent film, illustrated musically, with some title cards to indicate the dialogues, with actors whose lips move when they speak although we never hear their voices. The images are in black and white, in format 1.33. 
1   TITLES                                                       1 
The letters of the titles come up on a title card typical of the 1920s. Elegant motifs around the edge of the frame, and, in the background, there are geometrical shapes reminiscent of the light beams of a film première. Behind is a stylized town. The titles end in a fade to black. On black, the date appears on the screen: 1927 
2   INT. LABORATORY - DAY                                        2 
In a "futuristic" 1920s laboratory, a man in tail coat and bow tie is being tortured. Ultrasound is being piped into his ears. It's incredibly painful! He's screaming. 
Title card: I'm not telling!   I won't talk!!! 
His torturers, cold men of science in white coats, gradually increase the volume. The pain seems unbearable, the volume reaches level 10 (maximum), the man passes out! 
3   INT. CELLS & CORRIDORS - DAY                                 3 
Guards wearing long leather overcoats throw the man into a cell! 
In the house, much of the audience is open-mouthed, excited, immobile and often wide-eyed. 
In the pit, a symphony orchestra plays to accompany the film. 
(9) Now that the film is ending, and the last note is sounding, the cast anxiously awaits the audience's verdict, which, after two or three seconds of silence, bursts into thunderous applause, to the great joy of the actor and the people around him, especially the actress and the producer, who kiss each other on the lips. 
Two theater hands bring down the curtain. 
(10) The lights come on. George Valentin comes onto the stage and acknowledges the audience, they are cheering for him. He is so happy he dances a few tap steps to express his joy then he acknowledges the orchestra before finally motioning to someone in the wings to join him. Jack the dog trots over in response. The crowd laughs and cheers, George waves to the dog, Jack waves back then waves at the audience, the people are loving it! 
In the wings, Constance is fuming with rage, but on stage, George is pretending with his fingers to pull at the dog, who fakes death. Thunderous applause again. 
Behind the actress, the producer can't hold back a smile, and this enrages the actress still more. 
Suddenly, George, hamming it up, remembers something he'd forgotten, and asks someone from the other side of the wings to join him. It's Constance. She comes over, smiling to the audience, and says something to George with a smile. 
Title card: I'll get you for that. 
She waves, but we can tell that her smile is set between her teeth. She isn't feeling comfortable. George motions firing a gun with his fingers, but she does not fall down, merely casts him a "very funny" glance. George looks at his fingers, not understanding why they don't work anymore then mimes throwing them away behind him, as though they've become useless. Constance stalks back off into the wings in annoyance, but the audience is ecstatic. Once in the wings, the actress sticks up her middle finger at George, and exaggeratedly mouths so he can read her lips: "Put this up your ass." George, grinning broadly, responds by clapping his hands in applause, then leaves the stage, executing a few more dance steps as he does so. The audience is delighted. 
As he comes off stage, George gets soundly told off by Constance, but, still grinning, he motions towards the audience who are still asking for more. The producer, although delighted by the successful reception, makes a weak attempt to calm the actress down. As for George, he returns to the stage, the audience roars. He pretends to want to leave the stage, and mimes bumping into an invisible wall just as he's leaving the stage. George holds his nose, the audience goes wild, Constance gets even madder, and while George carries on clowning about, the producer too breaks into a beaming smile. He's probably realized that George has the audience on his side... Constance, furious, storms off. She is followed by the producer who is trying to placate her, although it looks like he's got his work cut out for him. 
11   EXT. MOVIE THEATER LOS ANGELES - NIGHT                      11 
Her joyful expression gradually becomes one of abject apology, but George is roaring with laughter. 
After a short pause, Zimmer makes the connection. He checks the front page of the paper, and recognizes her! 
Then he begins shouting at her and all she can do is lower her head, unable to reply. He gestures that she's fired and for her to get out, and she starts to go, completely distraught. She's just made a couple of steps when George stops her and tells her to come back. Everyone is surprised, most of all him. Zimmer can't believe it, and so doesn't respond at first. 
There's bad feeling between them, as though neither wanted this sudden conflict, but like it had always been there, tangible. Everyone on the set seems to be waiting for Zimmer to react, but to their surprise, after a long moment of hesitation, he walks away without saying a thing. Peppy looks at George gratefully, smiling, but seems a little preoccupied as though she might have made a mistake. 
Everyone on set gets back to work. 
20   INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - RESTAURANT DECOR SET - DAY        20 
They're about to start shooting. The director is showing George what he has to do. The scene is happening in a cabaret restaurant. George has to cross a dance floor, but each time he is stopped by a guy ringing a bell to signal it is time to change dancing partner. George finds himself dancing with Peppy one moment, and in the arms of a very fat man the next, the director finds the gag hysterical. The scene is shot several times from three different angles. Each time, George dances with Peppy, and, each time, the nature of their rapport changes. To begin with, they are happy and laughing, but then, with time, less so. Then they become embarrassed, and then things get worse. We start the sequence again and again, to the sound of the clapperboard counting the number of takes, but the eroticism between them is the only thing that stands out from the scene, every thing else goes unnoticed. Ultimately, no flirting or suggestiveness has gone on, just the very obvious beginning of feelings between them that they find disturbing. It's probably love. 
21   INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - DRESSING ROOM CORRIDORS - DAY     21 
Later on, in the dressing room corridor, Peppy, holding an envelope, goes up to George's door. She knocks, waits for a reply, then enters. There's nobody there. She hesitates, not sure whether to leave or stay... 
22   INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - GEORGE'S DRESSING ROOM - DAY      22 
Finally, she goes into the room and places the envelope addressed to George Valentin on the dresser. Then she attentively looks around the dressing room. She looks at the objects and photos and notices, hanging from a coat stand, George's jacket on a hanger, and his hat which sits on a hook above it. The way the clothes are disposed looks like George's silhouette, except that the clothes are empty. She goes over, strokes the jacket and little by little brings George to life through his clothes. 
She puts her right hand into the sleeve and touches her own waist. As it's George's sleeve, she makes it look like his arm has come to life, as though George has come to life. Even more so since her left hand is stroking the jacket as though George were inside. She takes pleasure from the embrace and, when George comes into the room, she slowly removes her hand without any rush. George sees her, they look at each other. He closes the door but doesn't go over to her, instead going over to the mirror. He looks at her, she at him... He motions to her to approach. She does. He stares at her face for a while before he speaks. 
27   INT. STUDIO/STAGES - PEPPY AS A SERVANT/DANCER/ETC. - DAY     27 
We see her playing some bit parts, maid, dancer, etc. Her roles seem to get a little bigger. We notice that she now wears the beauty spot that she'll keep forever. 
Her name climbs up the ranks in the title sequences of films, until it appears on its own. 
28   INT. OFFICE - PEPPY/CONTRACT/1927 - DAY                       28 
We see her signing a contract in a small office, she seems happy. 
INT. OFFICE - GEORGE/ZIMMER/CONTRACT - DAY 
George signs a big contract with Zimmer as photographers take pictures. He smiles broadly, whereas Zimmer looks like his smile is a little forced. 
The date appears on the screen: 1929 
INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - TAVERN DECOR - DAY 
George, dressed as a musketeer, is sword-fighting with three middle-ages thugs in a tavern. He kills two of them, but unfortunately loses his epee when fighting the third. But when the third man attacks, George merely dodges with a sleight of body and puts his attacker out of action with a right hook! Calm restored, he smiles and waves in brotherly fashion to a mysterious man who is trying to hide underneath his long cape. The man stands up, throws aside his cape and reveals himself to be... Napoleon! He puts his bicorne hat back on and warmly thanks an astonished George. Napoleon says something to him and George respectfully bows, walks away from him still bowing then turns and runs. Once out of the decor, he bumps right into a worried-looking Zimmer who is followed by his loyal assistants. George is in a playful mood. Zimmer tells him: 
Title Card: I want to show you something.     Right now. 
George seems astonished that Zimmer is leaving the set and not filming, but agrees. Napoleon walks past them very imperially and gestures royally to a technician to bring him a chair. The technician doesn't miss the chance to remind the man that he is only an extra, and not Napoleon. 
36   INT. GEORGE & DORIS' HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT               36 
George awakes with a start! He's in bed and is having trouble shaking off his nightmare. 
The film continues as normal: in other words, silent. 
His wife is sleeping by his side. He gets up, taking care not to make a sound. 
37   INT. GEORGE & DORIS' HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT            37 
George calms down as he sits in the living room, alone in the darkness. Jack, still sleepy, has just curled into a ball next to him to fall back to sleep. George smiles and gives him a pat. 
38   INT. GEORGE'S CAR (DRIVING) - LOS ANGELES STREETS - DAY     38 
Driven by his chauffeur, George crosses town heading for the studios. 
EXT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - DAY 
The car goes through the studio gates. There's nobody there. George gets out. He goes into the courtyard. There's nobody there either. 
40   INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - TAVERN DECOR SET - DAY             40 
He goes into the studio and heads for the set. There is still no one about. He doesn't understand and goes back outside. 
Title card: I'm sorry. The public wants fresh blood. And the public is never wrong. 
George gets to his feet. 
Title card: It's me the people want and it's my films they want to see. And I'm going to give them to them. 
Zimmer nods with another pursing of the lips, as though he can't wait to see that. George seems very sure of himself. 
Title card: I don't need you. Go make your talking movies. I'm going to make them a beautiful film! 
As George leaves in disgust, his eyes are drawn to an advertising feature representing the "new faces of Kinograph Studios". Among the medallion framed young portraits, George recognizes that of Peppy Miller. He glances up at Zimmer. 
Title card: Fresh blood... 
The two men exchange a last glance, then George exits. 
44   INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS, SECRETARY'S OFFICE - DAY            44 
Outside he feels a few seconds of discouragement but, as he meets the gaze of the engineers waiting in the secretary's antechamber, he puffs up his chest and walks tall out of the office. 
45   INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - STAIRS - DAY                       45 
Going down the stairs from the offices, he passes a laughing Peppy who is accompanied by two young and charming men, perfect specimens of America's golden youth. She is coming up, he is going down. When she notices him, she stops, already one step above of him. She has a beaming smile and is truly delighted to see him. He is delighted too, although his mood is very different. 
George smiles. 
Title card: Or not. 
She insists but he doesn't listen. He's with his dog. She gets annoyed, he doesn't answer, she ends up throwing Jack. George cannot forgive her for doing so, he looks at her in disgust. She starts to cry. 
Title card: I'm unhappy, George. 
He answers without looking at her. 
Title card: So are millions of other people, me for instance. 
49   INT. GEORGE'S STUDIO SET - JUNGLE DECOR - DAY              49 
Thanks to a montage of shot frames, photos and press cuttings, we see George begin making his film, the first clap of the board that shows he's both the film's producer and director. The film is called Tears of love, and it tells the tale of an English adventurer - played by himself - accompanied by a young woman, an old man who looks like a professor and who is probably the father of the young woman and, lastly, an African tribe represented as savages and whose humanity remains to be proven. 
We see George in the various stages of preparation: writing, re- writing, directing, acting, signing a lot of checks, but also leaving very early in the morning to set up shots with his collaborators, etc. He looks fulfilled, like he truly believes in what he's doing, despite the tiredness he's feeling. His dog has a role in the film too, doing tricks. George looks very happy, very committed. He takes a supple branch, feeds it through the sleeves of a woman's blouse and, by holding the two ends of the branch out in front of him, dances with the imaginary woman. Everyone around him is happy and laughing. He's not shooting a comedy, however, it's obviously a drama of some sort from what we see of the set and the way the actors play their role. 
Then appear on screen the mock ups of posters, they are shown on the set to George. 
He chooses the one in which he is most prominent, it's a poster depicting a cutesy melodrama and bears the release date October 25th. 
OMITTED 
She continues talking with the casual arrogance of youth. Behind her, George's smile vanishes. 
Title card: Anyway, it's normal for the young to take over from the old, that's life. Make way for youth! 
George is hurt. He gets up and, before he leaves, gestures silently that if she wants his place all she has to do is take it. She watches him leave and immediately regrets what she's just said. 
55   INT. GEORGE & DORIS' HOUSE - DAY                             55 
It's the day of the films' release, October 25th. 
It's morning. George opens his front door. His chauffeur is outside. The man's expression announces bad news. He's holding the day's press. The huge headlines talk of a stock market crash, a black Thursday, a catastrophe. 
Dressed in a robe, George is on the telephone in the living room. He nods. The atmosphere is stifling. He hangs up. His chauffeur looks at him inquisitively. George replies as though lost in thought: 
Title card: It would seem that we're ruined. 
The chauffeur takes it on the chin with as much reserve as he can muster, but George continues. 
Title card: That's the best case scenario... 
He almost laughs - not so the chauffeur. 
56   INT. GEORGE & DORIS' HOUSE - DAY                           56 
Inside the car, behind the implacable chauffeur, George is talking to himself, as though he's re-running the story in his head and searching for what he might have done better, or differently. 
62   INT. GEORGE & DORIS' HOUSE - DAY                              62 
Once home, he finds a photo of himself on the floor. It has been defaced with a scribbled moustache, spectacles and a big nose. There's a note to him scribbled on the back. We read it at the same time as him. 
It's over, George. You've got a fortnight to collect your souvenirs together and get out of the house. 
Doris P.S.: You should go see Beauty Spot, it's incredible. 
George takes it on the chin and leaves, revealing behind him the portrait of himself wearing a tuxedo, smiling and waving. 
63   INT. MOVIE THEATER - "TEARS OF LOVE" SCREENING - DAY          63 
As for Peppy, she's in the theater, watching Tears of love. She's with a handsome young man who seems bored. 
64   EXT. JUNGLE - DAY                                             64 
George is wearing shorts and an explorer's hat. He is sinking in sinking sand. The young woman is screaming and the dog barking. 
The Africans are panicking but there's nothing anyone can do. George stops struggling, and looks deep into the eyes of the young woman. He says gently: 
Title card: Farewell, Norma.    I never loved you... 
67   EXT. GEORGE & DORIS' HOUSE - TOP STEP - NIGHT                 67 
He opens the door. It's Peppy. She immediately notices that George is drunk. Her smile tenses a little. 
Title card: I wanted to talk, I... 
George looks at her. She continues. 
Title card: I saw Tears of Love. 
George nods, and answers. 
Title card: And so you've come to get your money back? 
She smiles stiffly, not knowing how to react.   He continues. 
Title card: Too much face-pulling? 
She stops smiling because it's not funny at all. It's bitter, even. There's an embarrassed silence. Softly, she tries to explain. 
Title card: About last night... 
She stops because George is not looking at her anymore. He's watching the arrival of the young, smiling, handsome and wholesome man who is with Peppy. George bears a melancholy smile. 
69   INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - PEPPY'S DRESSING ROOM - DAY          69 
Peppy is facing her mirror and putting her make up on. She takes a break, looking a little sad. Someone (some kind of assistant) opens the door to her dressing room and says something like you need to hurry up. She nods and gets back to work. 
70   EXT. MOVIE POSTERS - LOS ANGELES - DAY                        70 
Alternate shots of three or four film posters and frames from them which illustrate Peppy's rising fame. Her name moves higher up the posters and into bigger letters. The films are called "The Rookie", "The Brunette ", "The Girl Next Door" and, finally, "On the Roof ". 
OMITTED 
72   INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - PEPPY'S DRESSING ROOM - DAY          72 
We catch up with her in a close up, applying her make up. The camera pulls back and we see that not only is she not putting the make up on herself - a make up artist is doing that - but there are in fact four pairs of hands getting busy around her; two make up girls, a hairdresser and a wardrobe assistant. Peppy, fortunately, has stayed completely natural and doesn't seem to take any of it seriously. As the last touch is put in place, Peppy gets to her feet and turns round. 
At her feet lie a dozen pairs of shoes, each pair as magnificent as the next, and all in their swanky boxes. Peppy tries on a pair. Close up of her feet. 
73   INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE (1931) - DAY                              73 
Crossfade to a man's pair of shoes with used heels and uppers. George's dog comes to sit at his feet. The date is superimposed on the screen: 1931. 
The camera climbs up his legs to reveal George lying fully dressed in his bed, obviously at home in view of his attitude. He's changed. And even if his suit is still pretty smart, he's become more "common", less unattainable. He seems to have lost whatever it was that made him so superb. Primarily he's a bit drunk, somewhat hesitant. George gets up and closes his Murphy bed, the kind of bed that slots up into the wall to look like a closet. Then he walks across the living area. His home has changed too, it's fallen in class and is a lot more modest than the one we were used to seeing him in. We do however recognize some of the objects, furniture and paintings from his old house, notably the huge portrait of him smiling. He goes into the kitchen which is open onto the rest of the apartment. There's nothing in the refrigerator. He looks for something to drink but there's only one bottle left in the rack. He lifts it up. It's empty. 
He opens a closet. Inside, a tuxedo hangs among a number of bare hangers. 
In the evening, George looks out between the curtains, the chauffeur is still there. George turns on his heels and gets into his Murphy bed. 
78   INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT                         78 
Night time. George is in bed with his eyes open. 
79   EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                   79 
Outside, the chauffeur is still in the same position. 
80   INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - DAY                                     80 
The next morning, George gets up and goes to look from the window. The chauffeur has gone. George is a little sad, but that's just the way it is... He looks around at his home. 
A little later, George looks at himself in a mirror. We pass from him to his reflection, which he hides by placing his drink against the mirror. 
81   INT. AUCTION ROOMS - DAY                                      81 
A sign says that the effects of George Valentin are to be auctioned. Furniture, costumes, objets d'art and paintings on September 14th. There aren't many people in the room, just five or six. George is standing at the back, smoking a cigarette. 
His position and demeanor are exactly like when he was watching the screening of Tears of Love, from the back of the room with the verdict of failure in the air... 
He's looking a little unsteady on his feet, probably due to the hip flask he's necking that seems to contain liquor. The objects go under the hammer one by one. We see the three monkeys go by, notably, hear no evil, speak no evil, see no evil. Two buyers especially are raising the prices by bidding against each other, a distinguished and reserved-looking man, and a lady of a certain age who looks a bit severe, to the point of bigotry. They don't seem perfectly comfortable, but they are the only two buying. 
Little version runs off shot to get help, and he comes back with a tribe of African warriors, all bearing spears. They attack. 
Big version tries to defend himself, staggers as he gets to his feet, tries to gesture to the barman, but he is so drunk that he falls straight backwards without making the slightest attempt to stop his fall. The Africans leap about with joy. 
FADE TO BLACK. 
(84) George's chauffeur comes into the bar. He motions to the barman who jerks his head in one direction. The chauffeur follows the indication and finds George lying on the floor, totally smashed. He slaps him gently around the face a few times in a vain attempt to wake him, then lifts him over his shoulder, pays the check and leaves. 
86   INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                   86 
At George's house, his chauffeur puts him to bed and hangs his suit carefully before leaving the room. He sees the dog, goes over to it and strokes it. They look at each other. We can tell that the chauffeur is worried about George. 
87   EXT. "GUARDIAN ANGEL" THEATER - DAY                           87 
Peppy Miller is "The Guardian Angel". It's a huge poster on the façade of a movie theater. George goes inside. With Jack. 
88   INT. "GUARDIAN ANGEL" THEATER - DAY                           88 
The auditorium is full. George sits down in the first row. To watch the film he has to look upwards, and sees a huge and magnificent Peppy rising above him. She's playing a scene with a young actor we recognize, it's Humphrey Bogart. He's become a spectator: he laughs, is absorbed and cries along with the others. 
89   INT. "GUARDIAN ANGEL" THEATER - CORRIDOR & LOBBY - DAY       89 
Coming out of the theater several young people bump into him. They don't recognize him. There's a lot of people milling about, so he picks Jack up. A woman exclaims an Oh! of admiration as though she's recognized George. He smiles modestly but soon realizes that it's just because she thinks Jack is cute and has come over to stroke him like she would any other dog. She is totally under Jack's charm, and says to George. 
Peppy bursts into the lobby, talks to a woman at the desk who directs her with a raised hand that Peppy immediately follows. 
She bounds up the stairs four at a time and comes into a corridor, 
101   INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR AND GEORGE'S ROOM - DAY            101 
and then to a door through the window of which she sees George lying down. His dog is at the foot of the bed, asleep. George is on a drip, unconscious and covered in bandages. A doctor is in the room with a nurse. 
Peppy enters. She's anxious but the doctor seems reassuring. 
Title card: He's not in any danger now. He just needs to rest. 
Peppy goes up to George. She notices that his burnt hands seem to still be clutching something. She's intrigued. In response, the doctor shows her the reel of film that sits in a corner of the room. 
Title card: He was holding that. It was real hard to pry it away from him. 
Peppy picks up the can. The label is too damaged to be able to read the title of the film. She opens it and unrolls some of the film in front of the window. We see random photograms run by. It's the only sequence they ever shot together, years before. Peppy is moved. Without turning round, she asks the doctor: 
Title card: Do you think he could come rest up at my place? 
The doctor nods with a kindly glint in his eye. 
Title card: It's probably the very best he could have hoped for. 
106   INT. PEPPY'S HOUSE - STOREROOM - DAY                        106 
George opens the door and goes into the room, it's a kind of storeroom in which everything is covered up with sheets. He closes the door behind him. The room has a ghostly quality to it. Jack sniffs about everywhere. George too seems troubled by the strange pervading atmosphere. His curiosity is spurred by a convoluted object that is covered in a thin cloth. A ray of light surges into the room. The door has opened and, standing against the daylight, is a maid. 
Title card: You should go back to your room, Sir. 
George nods with a smile. The maid leaves pretty swiftly, we haven't seen her face, the whole moment seems rather strange. George is intrigued but leaves the room. He has to call Jack to him. Jack is reluctant to go but finally obeys his master. 
107   INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - PEPPY SET - 1931 - DAY             107 
A screenplay lies on a table. Peppy and Zimmer are seated either side of the table and are talking animatedly. We're on the set we saw the previous day, and Peppy seems to be trying to convince Zimmer of something. She seems to be describing a film poster or the façade of a movie theater she'd love to see. He doesn't seem too enthusiastic from the looks of the negative shakes of his head and his apologetic air as he listens to Peppy. She finally stops talking and gives him a determined look. Zimmer, uncomfortable and sorry, calmly replies. 
Title card: George is a silent movie actor. He belongs to the past. Today he's a nobody. 
As Zimmer's speaking, she removes her accessories and hat. Zimmer is so intrigued he stops talking. 
Title card: What are you doing? 
She looks him straight in the eyes, and answers: 
Title card: I'm stopping work. It's him or me. 
She looks determined. He's looking unsure of himself. He visibly isn't sure he's understood properly. She drives her point home. 
Before he leaves, the chauffeur overcomes his habitual reserve for the first time and says to George: 
Title card: She's been good to you. She's always looked out for you. 
The chauffeur leaves without trying to convince George further, as the other looks on full of pride and doubt. 
110   EXT. PEPPY'S HOUSE - DAY                                  110 
From the window, we see the chauffeur get into the car and drive off. We recognize the car as being the one that belonged to George. 
(109) At the window, George watches him leave. Then he seems to have an idea or, more exactly, an intuition. 
111   INT. PEPPY'S HOUSE - STOREROOM - DAY                      111 
George goes into the room that's full of sheets. He goes straight over to the object with the bizarre shape and lifts up the sheet. Underneath he finds his former objet d'art, the three monkeys "hear no evil", "speak no evil" and "see no evil". He thinks for a moment, then pulls of another sheet to reveal a piece of furniture. Once again it's a piece that used to belong to him and we recognize it from having seen it at the auction room. 
After taking off several other sheets, George realizes that she bought everything he had put up for sale: furniture, paintings, objets d'art, souvenirs, etc. He rips off sheets one after the other and the objects appear, even down to his suits and tuxedos. He continues and discovers the painting depicting him in a tux, waving and smiling. George looks stunned at the sight of himself looking so full of life. He's interrupted by the same ray of light which surges into the room once more. This time, at the door, are the butler and the maid. 
George walks towards them when he sees them. The closer he gets to them, however, the more his expression tightens. We realize that the butler is none other than the distinguished-looking man who purchased everything at the auction, and that the maid is the woman who was bidding against him to raise the sale prices. George is looking at them as he leaves the room. He has recognized them, but doesn't say anything to them. He walks off, still shocked by what he's just realized. 
112   INT. PEPPY'S HOUSE - GEORGE'S BEDROOM - DAY               112 
He finishes putting on his burnt suit in his room, and leaves. 
George sits down in an armchair in the darkness. Jack sits down facing him. He wags his tail and it thumps on the ground. 
117   INT. PEPPY'S HOUSE - STOREROOM - DAY                      117 
In the room with all the sheets, Peppy is with the maid. The maid seems to be telling her what happened with George, how he removed all the sheets, etc. Peppy listens with an inscrutable expression on her face. Then, suddenly overcome by a terrible thought, she rushes outside. 
118   EXT. PEPPY'S HOUSE - DAY                                  118 
She runs out of the house and over to the car, but the chauffeur isn't there. She honks the horn to call him but there's no response. She honks the horn again, then, not wanting to wait any longer, and seeing the keys on the dashboard, she gets behind the wheel, starts the engine and pulls off in a series of kangaroo hops. It's obvious that she doesn't know how to drive all that well, but still goes at full speed - more or less successfully. Just as she passes through the gate, the chauffeur turns up. Too late. He sees her drive away. 
119   EXT. PEPPY'S CAR (DRIVING) - DAY                          119 
Peppy is driving as fast as she can through town, but she's pretty reckless and almost causes an accident. 
120   INT. GEORGE'S BURNT HOUSE - DAY                           120 
Outside George's house, the wind is slamming one of the shutters with the regularity of a metronome. George takes a gulp of liquor, then puts down the glass, opens a cardboard box and takes out a pistol that he places on the table in front of him. He picks up the glass for another gulp. Jack doesn't like what he sees. He barks. 
(119) As for Peppy, she's speeding along, totally ignoring even the most basic of road safety requirements. 
(120) George puts down his glass and picks up the pistol. Jack isn't happy at all. He barks and bites George's trouser leg, pulling on it. 
(119) Peppy speeding along. 
