SIMON (O.S.) Mr. Udall. 
But Melvin's into it. His fingers flying as he reads. 
MELVIN 'At last she was able to define love. Love was... ' 
More KNOCKING. 
SIMON (O.S.) Mr. Udall, I'd like to talk to you please. 
MELVIN 'Love was... ' 
He almost has the rest of the sentence -- the meaning of love -- but the knocking throws him. 
MELVIN ... Son-of-a-bitch-pansy-assed- stool-pusher. 
He burst from his chair. 
INT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - HALLWAY - NIGHT 
As Simon hears MELVIN through the door and takes a step back. Melvin throws open the door. He looks demonic. 
MELVIN (loud and angry) Yeeeess!!! 
SIMON Maybe this can wait. 
Frank signals encouragement as Melvin opens the door. 
SIMON I found Verdell, Mr. Udall. 
MELVIN Well, that's a load off. 
Melvin walks back into the apartment and is about to close the door when Simon has another burst of bravery. 
SIMON Did you... do something to him? 
MELVIN Do you realize that I work at him? 
SIMON (eyes downcast) No, I didn't. 
MELVIN Do you like to be interrupt when you are danging around in your little garden? 
SIMON No...  actually, I even shut the phone off and put a little piece of cardboard in the ringer so no one can just buzz me from d... 
MELVIN Well, I work all the time. So never, never again interrupt me. Okay? I mean, never. Not 30 years from now... not if there's fire. Not even if you hear a thud from inside my home and a week later there's a smell from in there that can only come from a decaying body and you have to hold a hanky against your face because the stench is so thick you think you're going to faint even then don't come knocking or, if it's election night and you're excited and want to celebrate because some fudge-packer you dated has been elected the first queer President of the United States... and he's going to put you up in Camp David and you just want to share the moment with someone...  don't knock ...  not on this door. Not for anything. Got me. Sweetheart? 
SIMON Yes. It's not a subtle point you're making. 
MELVIN Okay, then. 
Melvin enters his apartment and slams the door shut. 
SIMON So the theory of confrontations is that now he'll think twice before messing with me? 
Frank smiles affectionately. Simon turns serious. 
SIMON He's genuinely upsetting, isn't he? 
FRANK Won't worry about it. You go ahead. 
Frank waits till Simon EXITS SCENE and then knocks loudly on Melvin's door. There is a sharp change in his demeanor. 
MELVIN (O.S.) Oh, I'm pissed!! Now I am really pissed!!! 
Frank waits patiently as Melvin jerks his door back open. Frank immediately grabs Melvin by his shirt and jerks him forward...  Melvin is scared. Operating on survival mode. 
MELVIN No touch. No touch. No touch. 
FRANK You may think you can intimidate the whole world with your attitude, but I grew up in Hell. My grandmother had more attitude. You don't intimidate me. 
MELVIN (calling) Police! Police! Fucking crooked police...  doughnut-munching morons help me! (to Frank) Assault and battery and you're black. 
CAROL Or you can just wait your turn... 
Melvin walks back into the restaurant proper...  he hangs near their table...  his discomfort builds in this limbo... then: 
MELVIN How much more you got to eat? Your appetite isn't as big as your noses, is it? 
WOMAN What?!! 
MAN (to Woman) Let's go -- 
The Woman starts to protest. 
MAN Let's leave. We're going. 
Melvin sits down at the table -- and takes from his pocket a plastic eating utensil set wrapped and sealed. As he opens his utensils. 
CAROL Bryan says he doesn't care how long you've been coming you ever act like this again you're barred for life. I'm gonna miss the excitement, but I'll handle it. 
There is in Carol's attitude toward Melvin some ingredient of self-satisfaction -- that she is the only one in the place who can handle him. She starts to clear the table. 
MELVIN The table's fine if it had some cholesterol on it. Two sausages, six bacon strips, fries, three eggs over easy and coffee. 
CAROL You're gonna die soon with that diet, you know that? 
MELVIN We're all gonna die soon. I will. You will. It sure sounds like your son will. 
ON CAROL 
Stunned. Some crazy street-freak has slipped under her perfect guard and momentarily devastated her. Melvin senses that he's gone way too far. He wipes his knife. 
CAROL If you ever mention my son again, you will never be able to eat here again. Do you understand? Give me some sign you understand or leave now. Do you understand me... (adds truthful label) you crazy freak? Do you?!? 
A beat and then Melvin nods, hardly breathing -- backing down. 
CAROL Okay. I'll get your order. 
She walks away. Melvin watches her, biting his lower lip. He takes some napkins and cleans the table himself. 
INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
She is underneath a YOUNGER, cuter MAN on the living room sofa. He is expertly into foreplay. She begins to make noises as she responds...  each time startling herself with her own noise and trying to reign it in. 
She's two women here -- one speeding the pleasure highway -- the other -- functional mom so blown away by the emergence of this sexy self that she laughs. The Young Man stops and looks at her. 
YOUNG MAN What? 
CAROL I...  I...  I don't know...  You got me. 
His eyes try to burn into hers... She is getting excited but doesn't know how to play it...  He pushes one of the fingers of the hand caressing her face toward her mouth...  She closes her teeth, his fingers attempt opening her mouth. She stops him. 
CAROL Let me just do whatever I do by myself...  I'll catch up to you someplace I promise. (as he's put off) Oh, no...  don't look like that. No. I'm sorry if I'm a goof. 
And so with earnestness and caring, she has transformed the sex into something more intimate -- and, talk about egg in your beer, hotter. Things are getting wild when we hear from the distance a child, SPENCER, CALLING and COUGHING. 
CAROL Kissing...  kissing boys. Oh my. 
Carol pulls her head away -- as Spencer's call continues. 
SPENCER (O.S.) (softly) Grandma, grandma... 
YOUNG MAN Maybe you better check. 
CAROL Like what did you think I was going to do? 
INT. HALLWAY/BEVERLY'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Pulling herself together she goes off down the hallway... she ducks her head into the first bedroom where her mother, BEVERLY, is listening to music on headphones... she takes them off when she sees Carol, then hears the cough. 
BEVERLY I'm sorry. I was hearing just everything you were doing so I put these on to give you privacy. 
Carol now goes into her son's room. 
CARL Maybe just you and me...  but this is for a painting. I need a pretty face. 
Carl beckons to Vincent who joins him, trying to conceal his pride at winning this lowest end of beauty contest. 
INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - DAY 
There is a KNOCK at the door -- Simon crosses to answer. He is more relaxed than we've seen him -- a man at peace humming to his favorite music, talking to his dog who scratches at the door. Simon opens the door to Vincent. 
SIMON Sorry, I was out in the studio doing some work and I forgot about our appointment. 
He leads the way back toward the studio -- chatting away -- unaware that Vincent is disrobing as he follows him and eyeing the expensive apartment. 
SIMON I usually make such a big deal out of picking models but Carl's so thorough. I'll bet he drove you nuts checking your references. 
And he turns and sees the naked model. 
SIMON (taken aback) This isn't a nude. 
Vincent moves back to retrieve his clothes. 
VINCENT Just kidding around. (then mutters) So much for love. 
INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - STUDIO (MINUTES LATER) 
Vincent is striking blatantly sexual poses to the increasingly uneasy Simon. 
SIMON Exactly what is your previous experience? 
VINCENT How about that pose? (sing-song) This is not fun... (then) Give me some direction. 
Vincent has instinctively put Simon on the defensive. He tries not to show it. 
SIMON Nothing. I just watch till something strikes me. Do anything you think of -- try different thing. Until I say, "hold that pose." Then just try and comfortably hold it. 
VINCENT (trying another space) The fact that you haven't said, "hold it" means I haven't done it right...  is that correct? I haven't done it right? 
SIMON No...  Okay. What I do is watch and wait for, um... You ever watch someone who doesn't know you're watching...  an old woman on a bus, kids going to school and you see this flash come over them and you know immediately that it has nothing to do with anything external -- that it's in respond to a private thought they just had? They are just sort of realer and more alive. And when you notice it so are you. If you look at someone long enough, you discover their humanity. 
Vincent's slack-jawed expression changes. He feels an intellectual tingle to be having this conversation. 
VINCENT I know exactly what you mean. 
There's a joy in him at this moment -- a bit of purity. 
SIMON Hold it. 
Vincent does so -- hums a bit of "Satisfaction" to celebrate. 
INT. RESTAURANT - DAY 
Carol and LESLIE, another waitress, are waiting for their order at the cappuccino bar. Leslie is telling the story of the traumatic audition which may have turned her life. Carol is rapt. 
As they pass Melvin she does not break stride, nor give him notice. Though she is aware of him -- resentfully so -- hard not to be since he is giving a moment to moment commentary on her every action. 
MELVIN Clippity clop -- clippity clop -- she has to pretend she doesn't hear me. Listening to the story from the upset friend...  now she drops off the cappuccino and smiles at the putzette who doesn't even say, "Thank you." No, the putzette wanted the whipped cream so back she goes and now she has to pass him again and it's getting tougher to make believe. 
CAROL (reluctant forgiveness) Okay. 
Melvin stops -- she passes behind him to deliver an uncharacteristic rabbit punch. 
CAROL What's with the plastic picnic ware? Why not try ours...  afraid it isn't clean? 
MELVIN I see the help -- judgement call. 
CAROL Just give yourself a little pep talk. "Must try other people's clean silverware as part of the fun of dining out." 
MELVIN What's wrong with your son, anyway? 
CAROL What do you care? 
Melvin just looks at her. 
EVAN (to Vincent) What are you doing? Cruising him? 
And he uses the hat rack first as a spear, then as a club, as the brief savage attack begins. 
ON VERDELL 
as he starts to go toward Simon and then scurries back in fear. The three attackers leave. Now silence. A single BARK from VERDELL. 
INT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - HALLWAY - DUSK 
A mass of OFFICIAL PEOPLE clutter the hall as a gurney is whisked down to the elevator. It's impossible to tell if Simon is awake or dead. Melvin is standing against the wall near his door a cop, RAY, interviewing him. 
RAY Okay. So you call 911 and don't leave your name -- even a dumb geezer should know that emergency automatically pulls up your name. How come you make a mistake like that? 
MELVIN How come you're pretending to do cop work -- 'cause I don't think you could find your ass if you were spotted the hole. 
RAY (stunned) What? 
MELVIN Just move on. No one here killed him. 
RAY Oh, is he dead? 
MELVIN Ask him. 
RAY We will if we can and if we can't, we'll come back and ask you again and again. 
INT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - HALLWAY - ANOTHER ANGLE - NIGHT 
Frank standing upset, anxious, holding a dog bowl, a leash and VERDELL, who is more upset making pathetic little CRYING SOUNDS. 
As we FOCUS BRIEFLY ON Verdell...  Frank is talking to the Sweet-Faced Woman. 
SWEET-FACED WOMAN I've been praying for him since I heard. 
FRANK So I've got to get to the hospital. If you could take the dog just for tonight. 
SWEET-FACED WOMAN Oh, Lord -- I've got all these antique knick-knacks...  Or else I'd be glad... 
FRANK Maybe if you kept locked in the bathroom. No? Okay. Thanks. (as he turns away and she closes the door he adds) Old bitch...  Damn dog. 
A short laugh makes us realize that Melvin has witnessed and enjoyed Frank's hostile mutterings... 
VERDELL starts WHIMPERING as a pissed Frank approaches his mugger: 
FRANK You're taking him...  yes...  you're taking him -- this will clear the books. One night. You want to say "no" to me? Try...  because I've never felt as nuts as I do right this second. I almost want you to try saying "no." 
MELVIN (quietly) I'm not saying nothing to you. 
FRANK Thanks for looking after him. 
Frank pushes open the door to Melvin's apartment and places Verdell inside. 
INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
MUSIC IN: as Frank pulls the door partially closed to block Verdell's escape. 
The music represents Verdell's state of mind -- trapped in the apartment of the man who tried to kill him. We STAY with the dog during the O.S. dialogue: As his head turns in panic we see his various POVs as the dialogue continues O.S. 
MELVIN (O.S.) Hey, where are you going? You can't do this. (calls after Frank) I can't take a dog. (a confession) Nobody's ever been in here before. 
FRANK (O.S.) (threatening) You don't want to mess with me today. I'll figure something else out tomorrow. 
INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Melvin enters -- the dog cowers in the shadows. Now Melvin sees him. 
MELVIN You're dead!! 
VERDELL STOPS -- gives Melvin wide berth -- slinking along the far wall. Melvin finds Verdell's fear of him a bit calming. 
MELVIN I don't have dog food. And I won't want dog food here. You'll eat what we have. You'll eat what we eat. 
The first gnawing pains of rejection. 
INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Simon pats his leg -- trying unsuccessfully to get Verdell to approach him. Instead the dog goes to the door and scratches at it. Jackie starts to pick the dog up. 
SIMON No. Please, don't force him. 
JACKIE (to dog) You little stinker. He's given you everything. 
INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY 
MELVIN'S POV 
Verdell's towel on the floor -- near his bowl. 
BACK TO SCENE 
Melvin's lips compress... he sits on the piano bench and hits a few keys...  looks at Verdell's empty spot again... there are those who "get the joke" -- Melvin is clearly one -- he laughs suddenly and helplessly even as he feels the panic rise in him... 
...  all his painstaking success in keeping the lid on and now it threatens to blow for a reason he articulates. 
MELVIN Over the dog...  an ugly dog. 
It's hilarious. But now the humor detours. An actual sob is choked back...  he gets up -- following a definite pattern across the room. He is conducting a small but highest-stakes fight for survival. Momentarily a scared, beaten middle-aged man -- he races out the door. 
EXT. NYC STREETS - DAY 
Melvin charging as fast as crack checks allow and then turning into a building with a copper sign reading "Grammercy Park Psychiatric Group." 
MELVIN Worst sidewalk in New York and look where they put in. 
INT. PSYCHIATRIST'S OFFICE - DAY 
Melvin bursts in on the psychiatrist and emits one word. 
MELVIN Help! 
DOCTOR If you want to see me you will not do this. You will make an appointment... 
MELVIN Explain to me how you can diagnose someone as "obsessive compulsive disorder" and then act like I have any choice in barging in. 
DOCTOR There's not going to be a debate. You must leave. 
The Doctor moves into the hallway, forcing Melvin to follow. 
MELVIN You said you could help me -- what was that -- a tease? 
DOCTOR I can help you if you take the responsibility to keep regular app -- 
MELVIN (suddenly) You changed the room around... 
DOCTOR Two years ago... 
Melvin shakes his head -- as if things weren't bad enough he must go through a careful exercise noting every new element before he's at all comfortable... as he studies each object. The Doctor is professionally intrigued despite himself. 
DOCTOR I also regrew my beard...  but you're not interested in changes in me... so it's like I always told you...  when it comes to people you... 
MELVIN Shhhhhhh. I don't have this mountain of available time...  I got to get to my restaurant on time. Do you know how hard it is for me to be here? 
DOCTOR Yes. (as Melvin starts for the office) No. 
INT. PSYCHIATRISTS' WAITING ROOM - DAY 
More PATIENTS in the almost-crowded waiting room. Melvin passes through -- visibly drawn and upset. He stops. Eyes on them. Then: 
MELVIN (to other patients) What if this is as good as it gets? 
They look stricken. He exits. 
INT. CAROL'S RESTAURANT - DAY 
MELVIN I hear you talk when I'm waiting!!! 
She crosses to the sink to dump the ice. Melvin takes a step inside. Spencer, seven and looking ill, walks into the room. 
CAROL Sorry, honey...  I'll be right there. 
MELVIN (uncomfortably) How ya doing? 
Spencer just stares at him. 
MELVIN (miffed) You should answer when someone talks to you... 
Carol eyes Melvin with disgust and disbelief then emphatically gestures him to "clear out." Melvin backs out the door. 
CAROL Sorry. There is a limit, Melvin, and I can't handle you teaching my son manners. 
She closes the door in his face, then walks to her son and leads him back to his room. 
INT. SPENCER'S ROOM 
CAMERA MOVES TOWARD mother and son sitting on the edge of Spencer's bed. She holds a digital thermometer to his ear. They both count down the seconds. 
CAROL AND SPENCER 5...  4...  3...  2...  1...  Bingo. 
SPENCER 
CAROL We are going to treat ourselves to a cab ride. 
EXT. BROOKLYN SIDEWALK - ANGLE ON CAROL - DAY 
As Carol carries her young son through a class of uniformed KIDS from a Catholic elementary school. She spots Melvin about to enter a cab. 
CAROL Melvin, wait! 
The school kids pick up the chant in unison. 
SCHOOL KIDS Melvin, wait! Melvin, wait! Melvin, wait! 
He turns to face them. 
MELVIN Shut up, kids! 
They immediately obey as Carol approaches him. 
CAROL Melvin...  give us a lift. We've got to go see our friends at the hospital. 
Melvin is thrown...  he pauses a beat...  then holds the rear door open as Carol hustles the kid inside. The maneuver puts the beet red, sweating Spencer at his face. 
MELVIN I'll ride up front. Cover your mouth when you cough, kid. 
INT. BROOKLYN CAB - DAY 
As they settle in and drive off. 
CAROL Brooklyn Presbyterian Hospital, please and quickly please. 
EXT. HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM - DAY 
As Carol enters the hospital. 
CAROL (calling back) I owe you three dollars. 
Melvin follows behind her as she carries her son... 
MELVIN Yeah, yeah...  any chance you'll get back to work today? 
CAROL (furiously) No!!! Stay away from me! 
INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Verdell lies just inside the front door whimpering for Melvin. Jackie sits across from Simon's wheel chair... she has some index cards in her laps which she occasionally consults and shuffles. 
MELVIN (as he turns toward her) I think of a man and take away reason and accountability. 
The fan is jolted as the elevator doors open and close. 
EXT. STREET NEAR CAROL'S BUILDING - DAY 
A depleted, exhausted Carol approaches her home. She is suddenly wary -- SOUND DIALED DOWN -- as we MOVE CLOSER. 
CAROL'S POV 
A car at the curb with "MD" license plate. 
BACK TO SCENE 
As Carol breaks into a run. 
INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT BUILDING, STAIRWAY/HALLWAY - DAY 
As she bounds the stairs, comes to her apartment door and jiggles with the keys, a strange prescient whimpering sound coming from her. As she enters the apartment. 
CAROL Hello? Hello? 
VOICE (O.S.) Mrs. Connelly, I'm in here. 
The worst confirmed, she moves down the narrow hallway, her innards squirting the same chemicals that drives elk on opening day of the hunting season. 
INT. SPENCER'S ROOM - DAY 
CAROL What? Please? Now? Tell me?! 
DR. BETTES Mrs. Connelly. I'm Martin Bettes ...  Dr. Bettes. 
CAROL Not your name...  what are you telling me your name for!! Where is he? 
DR. BETTES He's in the bathroom...  He's fine. 
CAROL (overlapping) Tell me how bad it is. I let him go out last night when it was so cool without an overshirt -- just and underone with just the straps and I know better...  and I let him talk me into it. He was whining and...  you don't need this. Give me a second to catch hold. 
And so she does. Wow does she... and gives us some notion of the size of her fear demon and the strength it takes to subdue it as Dr. Bettes keeps reassuring her and she keeps nodding... finally a deep breath as Spencer enters from the bathroom. All at hyper speed now. Salvation as farce. 
SPENCER (to his mother) Hi... (they kiss) Did you know there are doctors who come to your house? 
CAROL No, I didn't. (to Bettes) So why are you h... 
Beverly, Carol's mother, enters the room. She is ebullient which, if life allowed, would be her natural state. 
BEVERLY I didn't know you had a secret admire. 
CAROL Huh? 
BEVERLY You met the gift. 
SPENCER He's good...  And I'm an expert on doctors. 
CAROL (to Spencer) Stay out of this...  Doctor? 
DR. BETTES My wife is Melvin Udall's publisher. (as Carol reacts) She says I have to take great care of this guy because you're urgently needed back at work. What work do you do? 
CAROL I'm a waitress. 
ON Dr. Bettes' reaction her mother adds a saving grace. 
BEVERLY In Manhattan. 
VOICE (O.S.) Dr. Bettes? 
DR. BETTES In here. 
A NURSE enters. 
NURSE Sorry it took so long. I don't know Brooklyn. 
SIMON What's wrong? 
NORA Who's going to walk Verdell? 
Simon hadn't thought of this either. 
SIMON No, no. 
INT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - HALLWAY - DAY 
Nora holding her things, knocks on Melvin's door. Melvin opens the door. Nora is still sniffling. He misinterprets. 
MELVIN Is he dead yet? 
NORA No! Would there be any way for you to be willing to walk his dog for him? 
MELVIN Absolutely. 
NORA Not just today -- Uh, could you do it -- until, until he gets back on his feet? 
MELVIN Sure thing. 
NORA You're a wonderful man. Two o'clock is a good time. Here's the key in case he's asleep. Open the curtains for him, so he sees God's beautiful work and knows that even things like this happen for the best. 
MELVIN Where'd they teach you to talk like this -- some Panama City "Sailor want to hump-hump bar"? Or was today getaway day and your last shot at his whiskey. Sell crazy some place else -- we're all stocked up here. 
He closes the door in her face. She stands there... thrown by the abruptness -- then lifts the two paper shopping bags holding her things -- walks back toward the elevator -- pausing briefly outside Simon's door -- then continues on her way. 
INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT 
The doctor gone, mother and daughter arguing. 
CAROL There is a seriously goofy man behind this. You are not allowed to block out that fact. 
BEVERLY Do you really want to go back to the runt doctors in Emergency who keep telling us they can't help? 
CAROL It lets a crazy man into our lives. 
BEVERLY Come on. Why fight when we know how it will come out. This isn't like stocking or a string of pearls. You don't send this one back. 
EXT. NEW YORK APARTMENT - ESTABLISHING - DAY 
INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Shades drawn. Simon is a wheelchair...  the PHONE RINGS. He goes to answer... the phone across the bed so that reaching for the phone is a brief but difficult struggle... he grunts with pain, hope and anxiety as he answers. 
SIMON Hello?...  yes...  sure...  finally, huh? Why, "finally"? Because I called you so many times. Maybe (relief) Oh, boy...  I was hoping it was something like that. You didn't get one of them, huh? 'Cause I mean it wasn't only your office -- it was your home, hotel and the cigar club you like in San Francisco. No -- Sarcastic...  Of course. I believe you. No, don't fire anyone...  Please. Maybe I'm wrong about the 20 times. Take a breath... (more) So, you miss me a little? Hey, strike the question -- How's the case going? Really. Fantastic. I didn't hear. I haven't been watching. Great. Just great. I'm so happy. Whoopie! Me? Well, I'm mending. No, I look fine. Well, some of the damage might still be noticeable if you look closely... 
He runs a hand across his scarred and still bloated and beaten face... 
SIMON Carl, I need some help and you're the logical one to turn to. (aghast) No! Not 'cause I blame you for what happened. I hardly get how you can ever think that. No, I'm not being sarcastic. (trying to figure it out) I guess because you hired the guy who did this you think...  No, I am a sarcastic person. Well, if you must know, the reason I said you were the logical person is because you always told me how you thought I was this great person who made you feel good about humanity and everything. You do remembering saying that? Well, whew. Okay, so Carl. I hate asking but this money thing is ridiculously serious... 
He picks up an index card from his night stand and takes the leap -- reading the text he prepared in advance. 
SIMON "Will you please loan me money? I will pay you back. I will give you whatever percentage of my income I don't absolutely need until I do. It will take a while. But I don't know what I'll do if you say"... that. (as he listens) I understand...  yes...  No, I do. (a bit of boldness) But you know, you know -- you didn't even ask how much, Carl? Well, Frank has no right to discuss how much I'm in hock... no, you're right -- not the point. So...  what have you been up to??? Uh-huh... Oh, the group show... how was it? Well, I'm not surprised that there's that much talent around...  great...  Look -- gotta go...  no, you shouldn't feel that way at all...  take care, you, too...  you, too...  Good-bye. (as he hangs up) Pal o' mine. 
It's very quiet. 
LONG SHOT - SIMON 
A lonely figure -- who now holds his good hand up to his face and appears on the verge of enormous emotional release -- CAMERA MOVES TOWARD him as if to rendezvous with the moment of catharsis... 
...  but Simon is denied even this small luxury as the CAMERA ABRUPTLY ADJUSTS just as he begins sobbing to focus on the door opening and Melvin and Verdell entering the room. 
MELVIN Maybe I'll bring him some food by. 
SIMON Thank you for walking him. 
Simon wheels away from Melvin. 
SIMON If you'll excuse me I'm not feeling so well. 
EXT. MANHATTAN BRIDGE - TWO AM 
Carol crossing to Manhattan. She looks as if she's on her way to some final exam where she has no notion of the subject. 
EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET - NEAR MELVIN'S BUILDING - NIGHT (RAIN) 
Hot summer night as she gets off the bus and now the rains come...  We are in a familiar neighborhood. 
ANGLE ON MELVIN AND SIMON'S APARTMENT HOUSE 
As Carol consults the slip of paper with the address on it. 
INT. NEW YORK APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT (RAIN) 
As she enters building and realizes it's not just that she's wet -- the thin summer dress is a winner in any wet T-shirt contest...  the fabric clinging to her breasts, like the old movie poster of The Deep. 
INT. NEW YORK APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - NIGHT 
As Carol passes Simon's door...  stands in front of Melvin's apartment -- twists herself to ease nervousness and knocks on the door...  then RINGS the BELL. Finally Carol hears MUFFLED THROAT CLEARING on the other side of the door. 
CAROL Uh, Udall? 
MELVIN (O.S.) Carol the waitress? 
CAROL Yes. 
As we hear him unlock the door, Carol looks at her breasts and gasps. She grasps the fabric and holds it straight out just as Melvin opens the door. His hair is static city, standing on end as he periodically gives it self-conscious pats. 
CAROL The doctors had your billing address. I'm sorry about the hour. 
MELVIN I was working...  can't you just drop me a thank-you note? 
CAROL That's not why I'm here... (tearing suddenly) ...  though you have no idea what it's like to have a real conversation with a doctor about Spencer... 
MELVIN (very uncomfortable) Note. Put it in the note. 
CAROL Why did yo do this for me? 
MELVIN To get you back at work so you can wait on me. 
CAROL But you do have some idea how strange that sounds??? I'm worried that you did this because... 
She pauses -- the beginning of an extraordinarily long silence. Finally. 
MELVIN You waiting for me to say something? (as she shakes her head) What sort of thing do you want? Look, I'll be at the restaurant tomorrow. 
CAROL I don't think I can wait until tomorrow. This needs clearing up. 
MELVIN What needs clearing up? 
CAROL (strong and true) I'm not going to sleep with you. I will never, ever sleep with you. Never. Not ever. 
Melvin's reaction? Well, he'll never get credit for the brief but intense inner struggle -- the struggle not to scream -- 
-- not to cry -- to process the sudden and stunning hurt during his half turn away from her -- and then answer hoarsely. 
MELVIN I'm sorry. We don't open for the no-sex oaths until 9 a.m. 
Carol is amused, surprised...  maybe, in some small way ever taken by his style...  but top priority is clarity. 
CAROL I'm not kidding. 
MELVIN Okay!!!! Anything else?!? 
CAROL Just how grateful I am. 
Her mission completed -- she turns. 
MELVIN So you'll be at work? 
CAROL Yes. 
She offers him the note. 
MELVIN No... no thank you notes. 
CAROL Well, part of what I said in this entire history of my life which you won't read is that somehow you've done more for my mother, my son and me, than anyone else ever has... And that makes you the most important, surprising, generous person I've ever met and that you be in our daily prayers forever. 
MELVIN Lovely. 
CAROL I also wrote one part... I wrote I'm sorry... I was talking about I was sorry when I got mad at you when you came over and you told my son that he ought to answer back so I wrote that. (reading from the letter, Melvin wildly uncomfortable) I was sorry for busting you on that... and I'm sorry for busting in on you that night... when I said I was never... I was sorry and I'm sorry every time your food was cold and that you had to wait two seconds for a coffee filler... 
Melvin wants to disappear but Carol is getting into it -- emotionally moved by her own words. 
CAROL ... and I'm sorry for never spotting, right there at the table in the restaurant, the human being that had it in him to do this thing for us... You know what, I'm just going to start from the beginning... I have not been able to express my gratefulness to you... even as I look at the word "grateful" now it doesn't begin to tell you what I feel for you... 
And finally Carol notes Melvin's mood and pauses. 
MELVIN Nice of you... thank you. 
CAROL Thank you. 
MELVIN Now I want you to do something for me. 
She looks at him for a very strange, long beat. 
CAROL Oh, I'm sorry... Didn't I say, "what?" I thought I said, "what?"... What? 
MELVIN I want you to go on this trip. 
CAROL No, sir... 
MELVIN I can't do this alone. I'm afraid he'll pull the stiff one eye on me. I need you to chaperon. Separate everything but cars. You said you liked convertibles. Now I'm on the hook. 
CAROL The stiff one eye? 
MELVIN Two days. 
CAROL I can't. I work. 
MELVIN You take off when you have to. 
CAROL My son. 
MELVIN Bettes tells me he's doing fine. 
CAROL (no other way) Melvin, I'd rather not. 
MELVIN What's that got to do with it? 
CAROL Funny, I thought it was a strong point. 
MELVIN Write me a note and ain't she sweet. I need a hand and where'd she go. 
CAROL Are you saying accepting your help obligates me!? 
MELVIN Is there another way to see it? 
CAROL No. 
INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - BEVERLY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Carol takes an old weekend case down from the top shelf of the closet. 
CAROL Well, here's a little suitcase shocked that it's been used. 
She holds up a dress -- a pretty one... then decides it's too pretty and puts it back... Now she looks in another drawer and pauses as if she ponders one of the mysteries of the ages. She hesitates then talks to herself. 
INSERT -- UNDERWEAR DRAWER 
Her best underwear neatly stacked alongside her everyday "girl Jockies." She fingers the good stuff -- puts it back -- then the everyday -- hesitates. 
CAROL (furiously exasperated) There's not way to pack for this trip... well, I'll tell you -- I'm not packing the camera. 
On opposite sides of the waiting room, a very large black dog and a tiny Chihuahua sit patiently with their owners. 
VETERINARIAN Anything unusual in the dog's diet? 
MELVIN No. Everybody gets their own cage? 
VETERINARIAN Certainly. 
MELVIN (pointing to Chihuahua) Put him in with that one, not that one... (pointing to large dog) ... Builds his confidence. 
EXT. BUS STOP NEAR APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - DAY 
Carol disembarks. 
EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - DAY 
As she walks and turns a corner. 
CLOSE ON CAROL 
The shot of the prisoner taking the walk toward the death chamber. But the prisoner -- has grit -- her knees do not buckle. She does not whimper. No prison "screws" will have to support her weight. Still, the prospect couldn't be grimmer. 
CAROL'S POV 
Melvin next to a spiffy convertible. Top down. Trunk open. 
CLOSER ON MELVIN 
He is wearing driving gloves and turns to witness the tussle Frank and Simon are having just inside the building. 
FRANK I'm sorry that I'm not taking you. 
SIMON (upset) So am I, Frank. 
Frank starts to leave -- Simon stops him. They embrace. 
MELVIN Soak it up -- it's your last chance at a hug for a few days. 
As Frank moves off Melvin sees Carol and his demeanor changes... that quickly there is a shyness. 
CAROL Hi. 
MELVIN Thanks for being on time... Carol, the waitress, this is Simon, the fag. 
CAROL Hello... Oh, my God, who did that to you? 
SIMON I, uh... I was... attacked. Walked in on people robbing me. I was hospitalized. I almost died. 
MELVIN Let's do the small talk in the car. Load up. 
Carol puts her bag in the car. 
MELVIN I was going to do that for you. 
CAROL (taken aback) It's okay. No problem. Where should we sit? 
MELVIN (totally non-plussed) I -- uh, I... Well, there is no place cards or anything. 
CAROL (to Simon) Let me go in back. You look like you need all the room you can manage. 
SIMON That's very thoughtful. 
MELVIN Never a break. Never. 
Carol steps into the back. Melvin disappointed that he's not sitting next to Carol... Carol is wedged in the small back seat. She struggles to get her feet in. 
MELVIN You're really jammed back there. 
He reaches for the latch between his legs and slides his seat and, with some effort,  wrenches it forward giving Carol more room and putting his right against the wheel. She is startled by the gesture. 
CAROL Thanks, Melvin. 
SIMON Okay. Well, one day my father came in on one of those painting sessions when I was nine -- and he just started screaming at her -- at us -- at evil. And... 
MELVIN (very quickly) ... my father didn't leave his room for 11 years -- he hit my hand with a yardstick if I made a mistake on the piano. 
CAROL Go ahead, Simon. Your father walked in on you and was yelling and... really, come on. 
SIMON I was trying to defend my mother and make peace, in the lamest way. I said, "she's not naked -- it's art." And then he started hitting me. And he beat me unconscious. After that he talked to me less and less -- he knew before I left for college, my dad came into my room. He held out his hand. It was filled with money. A big wad of sweaty money. (gathers himself) And he said to me, "I don't want you to ever come back." I grabbed him and I hugged him... He turns and walked out. 
Carol, whose life has been rugged but basic, feels as strange as she does moved by Simon's trauma which is so much more complicated than her meat and potatoes troubles. She looks out her window -- then kisses her fingers and touches them to Simon's cheek. A nice, understated, gesture of friendship. 
CAROL Well, you know -- I still stay what I said. You've got to get past it all when it comes to your parents. We all have these horror stories to get over. 
Melvin shifts INTO the FRAME. 
MELVIN That's not true. Some of us have great stories... pretty stories that take place at lakes with boats and friends and noodle salad. Just not anybody in this car. But lots of people -- that's their story -- good times and noodle salad... and that's what makes it hard. Not that you had it bad but being that pissed that so many had it good. 
CAROL No. 
SIMON Not it at all, really. 
MELVIN (a veteran's irony) Not at all, huh?!... Let's go to the hotel. And if you're lucky tomorrow Dad will give you another wad of sweaty money. 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - LIVING ROOM/CARL'S ROOM - DAY 
MELVIN Two bedrooms and the sofa opens... 
Carol is on the phone in the living room -- she hangs up. 
CAROL (to Simon) No answer... Maybe we should just drive there tomorrow. Can I have that one? 
MELVIN Yes... sure. (to Simon) I'll take the sofa. 
Carol walks into her room -- the nicest room she'll ever have slept in... She goes to the phone and dials... 
CAROL (into phone) Hello... Hi, Spencer... Why are you out of breath? You did?!? That is great... So great... So -- no, wait a second, Spence... 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - MELVIN AND SIMON'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Melvin watches Simon struggle to unpack his especially neat suitcase. Melvin is uncomfortable. 
MELVIN Can I ask you a personal question? 
Simon laughs loudly in apprehension squared. 
MELVIN Do you ever get an erection for a woman? 
SIMON Melvin... 
MELVIN Wouldn't your lie be a lot easier if you were not... 
SIMON You consider your life easy. 
MELVIN I give you that one... (eyes suitcase) Nice packing. 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 
Carol enters the common living room... Melvin is sitting there. Carol is dealing with a number of unsettling new factors in her life. 
CAROL My son was outside playing soccer. I never saw him playing ball. Come on, you guys -- take me out for a good time... Take me out dancing. 
MELVIN Dancing? 
SIMON I can't, I'm exhausted. 
Carol walks to Simon and puts an arm on him. Melvin is visibly disturbed by her gesture. 
CAROL (to Simon) I don't blame you... This is a monumental first day out... You sad or anything? 
SIMON No... Nervous. It would be very rough, Carol, if you weren't along. 
CAROL What a nice compliment. 
CAMERA REVEALS that the floor is intricately patterned so that passage for Melvin is impossible. 
SALESMAN Come on in. 
MELVIN No. 
SALESMAN No? 
MELVIN (pointing) That jacket and give me a tie. 
EXT. FIRST RATE RESTAURANT - NIGHT 
As he pulls up - a new VALET taking his car. 
VALET #2 Good evening. 
MELVIN You have hard shells? 
VALET #2 I'm not sure. 
MELVIN Everyone else says you do. 
VALET #2 Then I guess we do. 
INT. FIRST RATE RESTAURANT 
As he enters, looks for and then spot Carol. She is having a martini at the bar... Sitting on a stool -- watching COUPLES dance... Happy by herself... Turning down a MAN who wants to buy her another... And Melvin watches... Watches his date. 
HEAD WAITER Shall I get her for you? 
MELVIN No, it's all right. I'll just watch. 
He enjoys watching her for a few more beats... She turns -- Melvin makes a "Haul your ass over here" gesture... and she smiles and walks toward him... A WAITER has lifted her drink -- placed it on a tray and follows her. She takes a bit of a slalom course through the tables, giddy as the MUSIC PLAYS and couples dance in the b.g. She notices the waiter in her trail. 
CAROL (mouthing the words to Melvin) My drink is following me. 
Melvin watches her approach. It is all too exquisite. He takes a breath -- it doesn't come easily. 
CAROL You look s... 
She stops herself from saying "sexy," regathers, then... 
CAROL You look great. 
They arrives at the table. He holds out her chair for her. 
CAROL You wanna dance? 
MELVIN I've been thinking about that since you brought it up before. 
CAROL (rising) And? 
MELVIN No... (and before she can digest that) ... I don't get this place. They make me buy an outfit but they let you wear a house dress. I don't get it. 
ON CAROL 
Melvin has no idea he has insulted her. Sandbagged in extreme, she gets up -- actually ready to leave. 
MELVIN No. Wait. What? Why? I didn't mean it. You gotta sit down. You can still give me the dirty look... just sit down and give it to me. 
CAROL Melvin, pay me a compliment... I need one and quick... You have no idea how much what you said just hurt my feelings. 
MELVIN (really pissed, mutters) That monominute somebody gets that you need them they threaten to go away. Never fails. 
CAROL That's not compliment, Melvin... That's just trying to sound smart so I feel stupid... A compliment is something nice about somebody else... Now or never. 
MELVIN Okay. 
He waves her down. 
CAROL (sitting) And mean it... 
CAROL (wiping away tears) I'll never forget you said it. 
MELVIN It was a mistake. 
But she has already turned away and exits the restaurant... Melvin alone and miserable. 
INT. SIMON'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
He finishes dialing. He is extremely tense -- not breathing -- a lump in his throat -- trying not to let the anxiety immobilize him... the NUMBER RINGS twice, then a humorless male voice: 
PARENTS' VOICE (humorless male voice) Hi. This is Fred Bishop... (perky woman's voice) ... and Betty. (Fred again) We are sorry to be unable to take your call right now. Please leave a message and we'd appreciate your including the time/date and purpose of your call. (Simon mouths the word "date," then Betty speaks before the beep Bye-bye. 
SIMON Ah, this is Simon... I'm here in town... (he waits) ... and, folks, you haven't come home later than 10 in your lives. Please pick up -- really... Okay... I'm going to call again in the morning. I need to see you. Or, at least get you to answer the phone. 
He hangs up. His parents want no part of him and he needs help. 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - CAROL'S ROOM - NIGHT 
As Carol enters with some energy. We FOLLOW her as she goes into her room -- takes her suitcase, begins throwing things in. 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - SIMON'S ROOM - NIGHT 
SIMON Hello... Hello??? 
Carol thrusts open the door and enters... 
SIMON Was this supposed to be your room? 
CAROL Our room. I don't want to see him and he's not going to come knocking on your door. 
Simon struggles with his shirt -- she helps him, inadvertently venting some anger as she does so. 
SIMON Can you not be violent? 
CAROL I don't think so. You need help with the pants? 
SIMON (emphatically) No!!! 
CAROL I'm going to take a big bath and order a big meal. 
SIMON Uh-huh... 
CAROL I'm sorry... are you okay? 
SIMON Well, considering everything's horrible and tomorrow I have to face my parents... Don't ask me ... I'm sick of my own complaints ... got to get me a new set of thoughts. 
CAROL Why? What have you been thinking about? 
SIMON How to die, mostly. 
CAROL Can you believe in our little mix you're the good roommate. 
Simon laughs -- as she crosses to the bathroom and begins to prepare a bath. 
SIMON (turning off the light) Good night. 
CAROL Good night. 
We are ON Simon settling in for sleep, when instinct or sounds or the faint glow of hope turns him so that he faces the bathroom and we have... 
SIMON'S POV 
Carol sitting at tub's edge -- a towel around her and now as Simon looks at the bathing beauty she adjusts her hair -- the towel falls -- a better than perfect breast exposed... 
BACK TO SCENE 
SIMON (a whisper) Hold it. 
He leaves the bed. 
ANGLES ON HOTEL DESK 
Melvin has been reduced to straight talk as Carol brings the bathroom bounty into the room and begins to put it in her suitcase. 
MELVIN I get why you're angry. It's no snap to explain why I was like that, but let's not try to do it on the run... 
SIMON ... so Mom. Truly no grudges -- truly. A little odd that you didn't come to see me when you heard I was hurt, but the important thing I want you to know is your son is happy. I'm working again. I'll make do -- I don't want a thing. Wouldn't take it if it was offered. I'll drop you a note from wherever I land and then it's up to you. I hope we patch things up but know that if we don't, I wish you both the very best... I can't hear you. You heard me, though, right? Good -- take good care. 'Bye. 
He hangs up, totally satisfied with himself and rips over to Carol and Melvin. 
MELVIN ... Now he's going to want to stay. And they'll want to take a ride to the lake or whatever. So it's a good five hours back. It gives us a chance to take it easy and... 
SIMON I'm going back with you. 
CAROL But what about... 
SIMON I'll take care of myself -- 
MELVIN What are you talking about? You got real problems. 
SIMON I know. I'm a little bit nervous. Suddenly everything seems so easy. Carol, a load has been lifted. 
CAROL One night with me! 
SIMON You think you're kidding. 
Melvin stalks out. 
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 
The car parked near a phone booth -- 
MELVIN (to Frank over the phone) Aww Jesus! No choice. 
Carol walks up to Simon in the car. 
CAROL I got a gift for you. 
She hands him a base ball cap. 
MELVIN (on phone) Nothing like no choice to make you feel at home. 
CAROL (to Simon) Let me see... Ahh, gorgeous! 
MELVIN Do it then. Get the dog picked up. I can't believe you let it stay there. 
Melvin hangs up the phone. 
MELVIN Good-bye. (to Simon) Well, your luck is holding. They sublet your place. You're homeless. Frank's got a line on another place you can use for now. 
SIMON Another place where? 
MELVIN Does it matter? 
Melvin gets in -- goes to the glove compartment for a special CD labelled "For Emergency Use Only." As it PLAYS a confessional love SONGS: 
CAROL I don't want to hear that music right now. 
MELVIN What do you mean? You said you liked it. 
CAROL I don't. 
MELVIN This one has a special meaning. 
CAROL It's your car but I don't want to hear it. If that means anything. 
Melvin hesitates and then turns OFF the SONG in mid- proclamation of love. 
EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - NIGHT 
As the car arrives... They get out... 
MELVIN Here are the keys to my apartment. I'm going to park you in my place while I take Carol home. 
Melvin breathes again. Simon enters the room. 
SIMON Sorry, didn't know you were awake. I just thought Verdell shouldn't get too used to sleeping in here 'cause then... 
MELVIN Look, we both want the dog -- and... 
The PHONE RINGS... they look at each other. Melvin doesn't move. 
SIMON Should I get it? 
Melvin nods. Simon walks into the next room... several beats as he finds the phone. We hear him pick it up and: 
SIMON (O.S.) Hello. 
ON SIMON 
SIMON (into phone) Hello. It's me. He took me in. Did you know? Hold on, I'll get him for you. 
He walks back to Melvin's room. 
INT. MELVIN'S ROOM - NIGHT 
As he enters. 
SIMON It's Carol. 
Melvin is quickly out of his chair -- the dog in one mitt... he thrusts it at Simon. 
MELVIN Here. Take the dog. 
As he speeds him out... 
SIMON Good luck. 
INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
As Melvin picks up the phone... He clears his throat loudly. Following is INTERCUT between Carol and Melvin -- the first such CUT showing Carol blasted by the throat clearing. 
MELVIN Hello. 
CAROL Yeah... Well... 
MELVIN (very concerned) How you doing? 
CAROL I can trust my brain. 
MELVIN That seems like a good choice. 
CAROL I don't know whether I'm being sensible or hard on you. 
MELVIN The two might go together. 
CAROL See. There's an example. I don't know whether you're being cute or crazy now. 
MELVIN (what the hell) Cute. 
CAROL You don't have to answer everything I say. Just listen to me. Okay? 
He nods his head, "yes." 
CAROL It's really something that you're looking after Simon. And what I said on the street. That was a bad thing to say. And it made me sick to my stomach. It was a bad thing to say. And I'd be lying if I didn't say that I enjoyed your company... but the truth is you do bother me enormously and I know -- think -- that it's best for me to not have contact with you because you're just not ready and you're a pretty old guy to not be ready... and I'm too old to ignore that. But there were extraordinary kindnesses that did take place. So thanks for the trips... 
She's just broken up with him but she's being nicer than ever. It's hard to know whether to die or not. 
MELVIN Okay to say something now? 
CAROL Go ahead. 
MELVIN I should've danced with you. 
CAROL Okay. Good-bye. 
She hesitates -- 
INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - VESTIBULE - NIGHT 
As Melvin gives up and starts out... turning as the sudden blast of being BUZZED into Carol's life sounds. He bolts for the door and enters. 
INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
She opens the door... she hears the sound of MELVIN SOUNDING HEAVILY up the stairs... He reaches her side. 
CAROL What do you want, Melvin? 
MELVIN Were you asleep? 
CAROL What do you want? 
MELVIN 'Cause if you were asleep -- I'm sorry. And you could be grouchy. 
CAROL Grouchy? 
MELVIN ... 'Cause of being woken up, and it would make my job impossible. So then I wouldn't even try. 
CAROL What job? 
MELVIN Were you asleep? 
CAROL What are you doing here? 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Beverly in the hallway looking on -- 
BACK TO SCENE 
MELVIN I'm sorry I woke you -- some other time. 
He half turns to leave. 
CAROL I wasn't asleep!! 
MELVIN What a break... 
CAROL (losing it a bit) Is it a secret what you're doing here? 
MELVIN I had to see you... 
CAROL Because... 
MELVIN It relaxes me... I'd feel better just sitting on the curb in front of your house than anyplace else I can think of or imagine. 
Carol has not ever heard anything like that before... it's sort of sexy in its sincerity. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
As we see in the b.g. that Beverly, standing near her door down the hallway, has heard at least this last part... 
Melvin, of course, cannot leave well enough alone... 
MELVIN (serious) Wait a minute, I'm overstating here, maybe the inside stairs. I don't want to sit with my feet in the gutter. What does that serve? It only... 
But suddenly Carl is shouting to the heavens. 
CAROL Stop it!! Why can't I have a normal boyfriend??? Why? Get out of here. Just a regular boyfriend who doesn't go nuts on me... 
BEVERLY (butting in) Everybody wants that, dear -- it doesn't exit... (as Carol turns to her) Sorry... didn't mean to interrupt. 
She disappears into her room. Carol snorts a laugh -- gathers herself. A beat. 
MELVIN (hopefully) Boyfriend? 
CAROL Oh, come on in and try not to ruin everything by being you. 
