"Assassins", early draft, by Larry & Andy Wachowski 
ASSASSINS 
Written by 
Larry and Andy Wachowski 
August 12, 1994 
FADE IN: 
PERFECT SQUARE OF BLACK 
We know that we are looking at something because its polished surface shimmers with light. 
PULLING BACK, other squares are revealed; the black and white tiles of a chess board. 
The board rises and spins, slipping beneath us we find ourselves MOVING ACROSS the board, MOVING THROUGH a chess game. 
The pieces are everywhere, checking and covering other pieces.  It has reached that critical moment when pieces are traded and the board begins to clear as two strategies unravel towards a final outcome. 
Standing above the pieces around him, we see the black king. 
We MOVE CLOSER TOWARDS his face, CLOSER TO his chiseled ebony features, CLOSER UNTIL we are staring into his cold black eyes... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. MARSH - SUNGLASSES - DUSK 
The red setting sun is reflected in the black lens. 
Two men are tromping through the calf-deep mud of an end- less marsh.  It is fall, the first frost not far away and the foliage is brown and bare.  With the red-orange ball of fire melting into the horizon, the two men at first appear as only silhouettes or shadows slogging through the mire. 
The man with the sunglasses walks behind the other man. He is very well-dressed in a dark suit.  A .22 caliber gun, fitted with a long silencer, dangles from his hand. 
His name is ROBERT RATH. 
The other man is WILLIE KETCHAM.  He is also wearing a very expensive suit though it is being destroyed by the brambles and mud. 
As he lifts his foot his Gucci shoe is sucked off by the mud. 
KETCHAM Aw-shit! 
He balances on one leg, holding his silk-socked foot in the air.  He looks at the shoe, already filling with mud. He looks at Rath. 
KETCHAM How much farther? 
RATH Just a little ways.  Up to those trees. 
About a half mile further into the thickening marsh there is a small cluster of trees. 
KETCHAM Oh, fuck it. 
He pulls his sock off and plunges his foot into the mud. He smiles.  It feels good.  He hurls the sock.  Lifting his other foot he pulls his shoe off and hurls that.  He grabs for the other sock, struggling to get it off, laughing at himself as he slips and falls into the mud. 
Rath waits, a faint smile. 
He manages to get the sock off and then stands digging both feet into the dark, wet earth. 
KETCHAM Hey, this feels kinda good. 
They move on, Ketcham almost playing, sinking his feet deep pulling them out to make a SPLURCHING, SUCKING NOISE. 
KETCHAM Hey, do you mind if I talk a little?  I feel like, I don't know, talking I guess. 
RATH Sure. 
KETCHAM Funny, I've never been a talker. My wife was always getting on me about that.  'Say what you feel, tell me what's bothering you, you ve got to talk to me.'  I never would though.  Not really. 
RATH Why not? 
KETCHAM I don't know.  Part of me wanted to but part of me always said, 'What's she going to be able to do?'  I don't know.  Maybe I didn't trust her. 
He picks up a handful of mud and begins shaping it like a snowball. 
KETCHAM My Margaret... I loved her but you know what?  I cheated on her.  All the time.  I don't even know why. It wasn't the sex, Margaret was great in bed.  I think if I wasn't married I wouldn't have even looked at some of those women.  I knew she couldn't trust me, so how could I trust her?  If she was here right now I'd think that I would tell her that I was sorry... 'course, if she were here right now, maybe I wouldn't feel like talking. 
He throws the mud ball at the grove of trees but they are too far. 
KETCHAM I think I've heard of you. 
RATH It's possible. 
KETCHAM You're pretty famous aren't you? 
RATH I hope not. 
KETCHAM I know this may seem like a strange question, but can I ask you how much the contract was for -- not to insult you or anything, I know you're a professional, but just for me, I was just wondering. 
RATH It's a common question. 
KETCHAM Oh yeah?  I guess we still need to see that price tag.  Like art, right?  You hang some painting that looks like baby-puke in your living room only if it costs a bundle. 
RATH A dime. 
KETCHAM One hundred thousand?  That's it? Jesus... Is that a lot? 
RATH Average. 
KETCHAM Shit... oh well. 
Crossing the room, he opens the door.  Backlit by the bright hallway light is a WOMAN.  She has already removed her coat and though she is only a silhouette we can see that her dress is very short and very tight. 
ESCORT (WOMAN) Hi.  Did you call -- 
RATH Yes.  Please come in. 
Her HIGH HEELS TAP against the tile foyer as she enters and he takes her coat. 
ESCORT Goodness, it's so dark... 
She reaches for the wall switch but he stops her. 
RATH I prefer it like this. 
ESCORT How can a beautiful man like you be shy? 
He smiles. 
RATH I prefer it, that's all. 
She moves closer to him, the sexual confidence of her body radiating like heat. 
ESCORT It's okay, honey.  We can do it anyway you want. 
Rath is obviously uncomfortable. 
RATH Would you like a drink? 
ESCORT I'd love one.  Whatever you're having. 
They move into the room, from a distance, as featureless as two shadows. 
She stands at the windows watching the snow-bubble of a city night. 
ESCORT Beautiful. 
He hands her the drink.  Her smile is bright and perfect. 
ESCORT Good will towards men. 
Their glasses clink as he drains half his drink.  If she drinks at all, we can not tell. 
RATH Why are you working today? 
ESCORT Holidays are our busiest days.  No one likes to be alone on holidays. I know I don't. 
She touches his face, the caress and her expression of tenderness seemingly genuine. 
RATH You're very good at this aren't you? 
ESCORT I think you're supposed to answer that question. 
Her hand slides down his chest, but before it goes any farther Rath turns away, returning to the bar. 
RATH I know what you expect, but I don't want... 
He pours himself another drink. 
ESCORT That's okay, hon, I always expect the unexpected. 
RATH I called because I just want... I need to talk. 
She sits on the couch, her body language changing, as she becomes a listener. 
RATH I've been thinking about my life, about things I have done... What I do for a living is in some ways similiar to what you do. 
He sits on the other end of the couch, his words thickened by the alcohol. 
RATH I know that everything has a price.  I want you to understand that I'm willing to pay. 
He takes out an envelope and puts it between them.  She picks it up, glancing inside at a stack of hundred dollar bills. 
ESCORT For what? 
RATH Honesty. 
She puts the envelope down. 
RATH I just want to ask you some questions. 
Uncomfortable, she waits as he searches his drink for the right words. 
RATH Do you ever regret things you've done? 
ESCORT Everyone regrets something. 
RATH But when you finLsh a job, afterwards do you think about them? 
ESCORT Sometimes. 
RATH Do you think about their wives or their families? 
ESCORT No.  They call me, I don't call them.  If they didn't call I wouldn't exist. 
Rath nods.  His next question is barely audible. 
RATH Do you ever think about starting over? 
ESCORT All the time. 
RATH Can you tell me about it? 
Spread out over the table are several faxed photos of the old Italian, Leevio Valli, usually surrounded by bodyguards. 
The file details Valli's life and his daily routine.  It includes:  phone bills, credit card and bank account statements, driver license and vehicle registration, the real estate listing of his house and even a copy of his income tax return. 
Satisfied with his figures, Rath plugs the phone into the modem and makes a call. 
The network comes on-line as the General Contractor types: 
CONTRACTOR/SCREEN You're too late, Robert. 
Rath types. 
RATH/SCREEN What? 
CONTRACTOR/SCREEN The contract was stolen. 
Rath stares at the screen. 
RATH/SCREEN Who? 
CONTRACTOR/SCREEN A new player.  He's using the name Nicholai. 
The name hits Rath and he sits, unable to breathe. 
CONTRACTOR/SCREEN You know what must be done. 
The screen goes black as the network shuts down. 
Rath looks down at the pile of assembled facts.  He lifts a credit card bill on which the name of a restaurant appears every Friday.  The name of the restaurant has been circled in red pen by Rath:  "Trattoria Roma." 
EXT. TRATTORIA ROMA - NIGHT 
A red awning spans the entrance of a popular Italian restaurant. 
INT. TRATTORIA ROMA 
It is a large establishment with many tables and booths. The dinner crowd is a mix of yuppies and older Italian families who have been eating here for years. 
Rath is sitting alone at a booth.  With very subtle changes to his appearance, he looks like an older Italian. 
In front of him is a glass and a carafe of dark red wine. He touches neither of them.  His eyes shift as he studies the room. 
LEEVIO VALLI pushes into the restaurant surrounded by five gorillas in Italian suits.  The owner hurries to greet them, hugging, kissing, speaking only Italian. 
The entourage moves through the restaurant to the over- sized booth in the back. 
Rath does not look twice at them.  Immediately he is watching everyone else, looking for the other assassin. 
Leevio slides into the booth as his goons stand and sit around the table, obscuring him from all parts of the room. 
A wine steward immediately brings a bottle of red wine and fills their glasses.  A pretty waitress sets a steaming loaf of garlic bread out and a giant bowl of minestrone in front of Leevio.  He tells her something and she giggles. They joke in Italian, watching her ass as she wiggles back to the kitchen. 
At Leevio's table the wine steward returns to fill their glasses. 
It is the goon standing against the wall that is the first to realize that it is not the same wine steward.  He is the second assassin, much younger than Rath.  His name is BAIN.  He smiles. 
The goon reaches for his gun as -- 
Bain SHATTERS the BOTTLE of wine into his face.  He screams. 
Leevio coughs a spray of minestrone, as a GUN flashes free from the white linen towel hung over the steward's arm. 
It happens instantly.  FOUR SHOTS and the goons are dead. 
Leevio screams. 
LEEVIO Don't! 
A FIFTH, SIXTH and SEVENTH SHOT. 
Leevio's body falls forward and softly thuds on the table. 
Bain whips around drawing a small SEMI-AUTOMATIC WEAPON from his belt expecting an attack. 
Facing the screaming crowd, he begins to SHOOT anyone who moves or stands, men or women. 
There is chaos in the restaurant.  People scream, falling to the ground, scrambling under tables. 
Bain is sweating, his eyes shifting wildly from one end of the room to the other. 
The restaurant falls quiet except for several people who are sobbing. 
He moves through the room, watching, searching. 
BAIN Don't anybody move.  You move, you're dead. 
He passes the table Rath was sitting at, but it is empty. 
BAIN Come on, you chicken shit motherfucker.  I know you're here. Let's go. 
EXT. CONCRETE PARKING GARAGE 
Across the street from Trattoria Roma, Rath jacks together a German assault rifle with night scope. 
INT. TRATTORIA ROMA 
Bain looks out the window at the dark street. 
He turns and searches through the people huddled on the floor.  He aims his gun. 
BAIN You!  Get up! 
COP Hit the ground!  Face down!  Spread your legs! 
Bain follows the orders as the second cop edges up to him, frisking him.  In this position the Cop is unable to find the knife strapped to Bain's forearm, but finds the Gameboy. 
BAIN Hey, don't touch that! 
COP Shut up! 
The Cop twists Bain's arms behind his back, handcuffing him tightly. 
They drag him to his feet, a swarm of police and paramedics in the street. 
INT. PARKING GARAGE 
Rath holds them in his cross hairs as they move to the police car, but is unable to get a clean shot.  Bain is using the cops for cover, keeping his head low. 
RATH Son of a bitch. 
The Cops shove Bain into the back seat. 
Rath very quickly walks to his car, tossing his gun into the trunk.  He gets in and STARTS the ENGINE. 
INT. PATROL CAR 
The two Officers are outside the car talking with the sergeant. 
Bain, laying low beneath the windows, peeks up at the shadowy parking garage.  He smiles. 
The two Policemen get in the car, the second picking up the radio.  The driver GUNS the ENGINE and the black and white RUMBLES down the street. 
COP #2 This is 181, returning with suspect involved in multiple shooting at Trattoria Roma.  Repeat, en route with suspect. 
He hangs up the radio and looks back at Bain through the metal caging. 
COP #2 Jesus Christ, do you know who you shot in there? 
Bain almost laughs. 
COP #2 What are you?  Some kind of a hitman? 
Bain looks out the window. 
COP #2 You know what we call guys like you? 
Bain looks at him. 
COP #2 Sizzle lean.  They're gonna fry your ass. 
He laughs at his own joke, looking at his partner, who chuckles. 
EXT. CITY STREET 
Rath's car races down the street trying to catch up with the patrol car. 
INT. PATROL CAR 
Bain stares out the window, silent. 
Behind his back, he takes hold of his left thumb with his right hand. 
The Cop is playing with the Gameboy. 
With a quick jerk, he yanks the thumb out of its socket. His expression remains perfectly blank. 
The thumb hangs unnaturally from the hand.  The skin stretches strangely as he pulls the metal cuff from his wrist. 
The Cop turns as the SWITCHBLADE CLICKS and Bain sticks the knife through the wire mesh, into the cop's eye.  A font of blood arcs onto the windshield. 
Grabbing hold of the driver's shirt collar, Bain jabs the blade into the back of his neck. 
The driver screams trying to pull free of Bain's grip. 
He slams on the brakes, groping for his gun and the CAR SKIDS out of control. 
Bain stabs the Cop again, his GUN FIRING WILDLY as -- 
The patrol car starts to flip and roll. 
INT. RATH'S CAR 
Rath turns as he hears an EXPLOSION, several blocks away. The TIRES SQUEAL as he makes a hard right. 
EXT. STREET 
Orange flames lick up from the belly of the overturned patrol car.  Oil black clouds billow into the night sky. 
Rath's car cruises past. 
Rath sees the back seat window shattered, kicked out. 
Bain is gone. 
RATH I'm not done yet. 
EXT. CITY STREET INTERSECTION 
A brand new cab is sitting at a red light. 
The cabby looks into the rearview mirror, as a pair of headlights roll up behind him.  The car gets closer, the lights brighter; they don't stop. 
He shrieks as the CAR SMASHES INTO HIS, TEARING OFF HIS BUMPER. 
RATH Didn't you here all them sirens? It's been all over the radio.  Some guy shot Leevio Valli, and a bunch of bystanders, in the Trattoria Roma. 
BAIN No shit. 
RATH Yeah, it's terrible.  I mean Valli, and I don't care what office he's running for, the guy's a crook.  He probably had it coming, but all the other people.  Real sad. 
BAIN Yeah. 
RATH But they caught the guy.  I heard it all.  Sounded like he just went berserk, fucking loco.  Shooting anybody.  Drugs, probably. 
BAIN Probably. 
RATH I'd love to sit in that jury.  Send that S.O.B. right to the chair. 
Bain allows himself a bemused smile. 
BAIN Sizzle lean. 
The cab passes the intersection for the airport. 
Bain sits up. 
BAIN What are you doing? 
RATH What? 
BAIN That was Peterson back there.  That goes to the expressway for the airport. 
RATH You're right.  Talking too much again. 
BAIN Yeah well, you just blew your tip, pal. 
RATH What?  You think I'm running you up? 
BAIN Just do your job. 
Rath pulls over and slaps the cab in park. 
BAIN What are you doing? 
RATH Get out.  You think I'm running you up?  Get out. 
BAIN You can't -- 
RATH The hell I can't.  It's my cab.  I don't like you.  So, get the hell out! 
Bain can't figure out what is wrong, when he sees the dashboard and the missing ID. 
Their eyes meet in the rearview mirror. 
BAIN Holy fucking shit! 
The cab rocks as both men move.  Instantly guns fill their hands.  Bain ripping out a .357 lifted from one of the dead cops.  Rath rolls to the side whipping the gun free from his jacket. 
Bain throws open the door, about to run, but stops.  He looks at Rath.  He wants him to run.  Anyone who moves away from the bullet proof glass is dead. 
Both men are silent, each holding the other in their gun sights. 
Bain blinks, sweat forming on his lip. 
BAIN I get out, you got me. 
Bain reaches over and closes the door.  He smiles knowing it is the right move. 
BAIN Now what? 
Rath calmly uncocks his gun. 
RATH We're both going to the airport. 
Bain nods. 
RATH Sit back.  Put your seatbelt on. 
BAIN No fucking way. 
RATH Okay, don't. 
Bain thinks. 
RATH If either of us fucks around, the other can blow the fuel line. 
He points his gun at the floor where the fuel line runs. 
Bain sits back, aiming his gun, watching Rath. 
Rath eases back into the driver's seat, also holding his gun on the fuel line. 
He puts the car into drive and slides back into traffic, turning back towards Peterson. 
They sit in silence, studying each other, when they hit the expressway.  Bain can't contain himself, giddy on adrenaline. 
BAIN Jesus -- I'm being driven to the airport by Robert Rath. 
He laughs. 
BAIN I can't believe this.  You rolled some cabby for the radio, then waited for an airport fare. 
He laughs again. 
BAIN Boy, that's fucking genius.  You're a fucking genius.  Then you're just sitting there, bullshitting with me. Man, no way I coulda done that! 
RATH Okay. 
BAIN What?  What's okay? 
Rath begins to accelerate, rounding the interchange. 
BAIN What are you doing? 
RATH There's a sand barricade up ahead; I'm going to ram this cab into it. The cab has an airbag, odds are good I'll survive.  But with this steel casing and bullet proof glass, odds for you are not so good. 
Bain laughs. 
BAIN Oh man, that's sweet.  That's fucking sweet. 
The speedometer continues to climb. 
BAIN You're bluffing. 
Rath says nothing.  Ahead, at the ramp to the terminals, is the sand barricade. 
BAIN You're fucking with me.  You want me to jump.  I jump, you hit the brakes and bang -- Game over. 
The cab is flying at its target. 
BAIN No, no.  Wait.  You don't want me to jump.  You're going to jump.  I'm stuck back here until it's too late. Wham -- over! 
RATH I know you're going to jump. 
Bain looks at him and then at the barricade. 
RATH You're still young.  Young enough to still think you're indestructible. Invincible.  You believe with utter certainty you can bail out at the last second and survive. 
The barricade hurtles toward them, rising up, filling the windshield. 
RATH If you do survive, we'll see each other again. 
Bain screams, throwing open the door and hurling himself out. 
Rath jams on the brakes, TIRES SCREAMING, steering into the steel side rail, banking the car into the drums of sand as -- 
Bain hits the pavement, bouncing like a stone skipped across water. 
A driver hits his brakes, swerving, just missing him. 
SAND EXPLODES from the impact and the cab bounces up over the median into the bus-only lanes as the driver's airbag balloons out of the steering wheel. 
Bain rolls and rolls, finally stopping sprawled out like a piece of roadkill. 
The cab careens up onto a curb, slamming into a pole, the radiator spitting out a cloud of WHISTLING STEAM. 
Several cars lock up and collide to avoid Bain; one car stopping inches from him.  A woman jumps out, rushing to the front of the car, but Bain is gone. 
Police CARS ROAR up into the midst of the accident.  One of them pulling alongside the demolished cab.  The door is open, the airbag popped.  Rath is gone. 
EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 
A large six flat leans out from a hill in San Francisco. 
INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT - DAY 
The apartment is always dark; heavy drapes cover the windows. 
The dining and living rooms look like the control booth of a network television show, stacks of video monitors and consoles, cables, electric wiring, coils of fiber optic cord duct-taped to the floors, walls and ceilings.  They snake through holes punched in the plaster walls and hang everywhere like some technological jungle. 
At the center of this tangled web is ELECTRA, a beautiful athletic looking woman wearing only her underwear and a worn robe.  She is curled up in an overstuffed chair, a bowl of popcorn in her lap. 
On the monitors, she is watching what at first might be mistaken for a soap opera; a young couple are having an argument. 
What is strange is that the angle never changes; a fish- eye lens staring down into the room. 
MAN (V.O.) I don't give a shit what your mother thinks.  I'm not sleeping with your mother, I'm sleeping with you. 
WOMAN (V.O.) You won't be for long, with that attitude. 
MAN (V.O.) Jesus, Jennifer, if you're so god damned worried about your mother's approval, why don't you move back home so she can pat you on the head when you do something right. 
ELECTRA Jerk. 
Jennifer is too stunned to say anything.  There is a long pause that is not at all like television.  It seems very real. 
She starts to say something, but stops, trying to keep herself from crying. 
MAN (V.O.) Oh good.  Go ahead and cry. 
JENNIFER (WOMAN) (V.O.) Would you please leave? 
Electra lifts her head, smelling the air. 
ELECTRA Mmm, smell that, Nikita? 
Nikita, Electra's black cat, is stretched lazily across the top of a chair, her tail twitching absently.  Every corner of the chair has been clawed open. 
Electra reaches for the control board and throws a series of switches. 
The monitors flicker as the image changes.  We are now looking down into a kitchen.  A stove is beneath us, almost like a cooking show, where a round woman is taking out a tray of chocolate chip cookies. 
Electra smells them again, smiling as she inhales. 
ELECTRA I hope she saves some for us. 
There is a BANG, a DOOR SLAMMING in another apartment, and a MAN YELLING. 
Cramped in the corner is Bain.  He is PLAYING "TETRIS," wearing dark sunglasses and a WALKMAN PUMPING SPEED METAL into his ears. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM 
Electra continues to pace, checking the monitors. 
INT. ROOM SERVICE KITCHEN 
At the switchboard, a YOUNG HOTEL EMPLOYEE wearing an operator's headset, takes a late breakfast order, typing the order in the hotel computer. 
YOUNG MAN (YOUNG HOTEL EMPLOYEE) Yes, sir.  That'll be up in about thirty minutes.  You're welcome. 
He turns around and Rath is right behind him. 
INT. ELEVATOR 
The fourteenth floor; the BELL CHIMES, the doors slide open and the clump of Japanese men get out. 
Just as the doors begin to close, Bain steps out. 
INT. HALL 
Bain follows them down the hall, still PLAYING the GAME. There is again an ominous sense of predator moving in on its prey. 
As Akira finds 1414 and opens the door, another door burst open, a large family, heading for the pool. 
The moment is gone; the Japanese men close the door and Bain continues down the hall again, PLAYING the GAME. 
INT. HOTEL SUITE 
When the Japanese men enter the suite, we realize that this is the image on Electra's monitors.  Surveillance camcorders and microphones are mounted in various locations to display every inch of the room.  The group hesitates for a moment, under the electronic eyes. 
The four goons have their hands in their jackets. 
A small LAPTOP COMPUTER sits on the coffee table HUMMING SOFTLY.  It is the only noise in the room until a speaker crackles. 
ELECTRA/SPEAKER (V.O.) Good morning, gentlemen.  I apologize for the arrangement, but we all know those aren't business cards you're reaching for.  If anyone leaves this room, the deal's off. 
INT. ROOM SERVICE KITCHEN 
The operator is unconscious, slumped in the corner. 
Rath studies the hotel computer screen intently, the information rolling by. 
We see that it is the previous night's room service receipts. 
RATH One vegetarian plate and a can of tuna fish.  Room 1014. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM 
Electra stands in front of the monitors watching the men as she speaks into the microphone. 
ELECTRA Ten thousand dollars per disk. Insert the first disk now. 
On the monitor, we see Akira at the coffee table shove the first disk into the laptop disk drive. 
INT. HOTEL SUITE 
Akira turns from the small computer screen and nods at a goon, who drops a green brick of bound one hundred dollar bills, down the central air duct. 
The little clock on the laptop ticks away as it copies. 
INT. HYATT HALL 
Bain is sitting on a bench entrenched in a fevered game of "TETRIS." 
Suddenly, he stops. 
BAIN Yes! 
The display of the game reads "Game Over" and congratulates Bain on a new high score. 
Bain stands, smiling.  He puts the game in his pocket and starts down the hall. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM 
Electra is crouched at the open duct, grabbing another stack of money, stuffing it into her bag. 
A LOUD BANG EXPLODES out of the SPEAKERS and she looks up at the monitor. 
INT. HOTEL SUITE 
The lock on the door has been broken and standing in the frame is Bain. 
BAIN Surprise! 
He raises his arm, his GUN spitting SILENT BULLETS. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM 
Electra stares in horror at the monitors as Bain grabs the nearest bodyguard, FIRING a SHOT into his belly. 
ELECTRA Oh, God. 
INT. HOTEL SUITE 
Another SHOT and the second bodyguard falls.  The other two draw their handguns and Bain shields himself with the lifeless body of his first victim. 
They FIRE at Bain but are unable to hit him. 
Bain squeezes off TWO MORE SHOTS and the two men fall dead.  He lets his human shield fall to the ground and levels his gun on the shaking Akira. 
RATH I work for the government. 
ELECTRA Yeah? 
She studies his face, his eyes. 
ELECTRA Bullshit. 
RATH Yeah. 
ELECTRA You're one of them, aren't you?  A fucking pro. 
RATH I'm part of the game, just like you. 
Electra pounds the steering wheel. 
ELECTRA Jesus! 
He reaches into the back seat, grabbing her bag. 
ELECTRA What do you think you're doing? 
Rath plucks out the bundles of money. 
RATH Twenty large?  That's all? 
ELECTRA What do you mean, 'that's all'? What in the hell do you know? 
RATH The bonus on the contract for you was one million dollars. 
Electra seems ready to jump out of her skin.  The speedometer is floating around 90. 
RATH Slow down. 
He pulls out the disks. 
RATH I figure that means these are worth ten times that, maybe more. 
ELECTRA Ten million -- 
RATH Now you understand why I'm here. 
Electra wants to scream.  The speedometer is climbing over 
RATH I really think you should slow down. 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT 
The room is immaculate; near the door, several over-sized suitcases line the wall. 
Bain is sitting at the desk.  His WALKMAN is on, MUSIC BLASTING, as he flips casually through the telephone directory. 
His finger eases down a column stopping at "Morgan Jennifer." 
There is a KNOCK at the door. 
He smiles and tears out the page. 
There is another, LOUDER KNOCK which Bain hears this time. He TURN OFF the WALKMAN and opens the door; a BELLBOY is waiting with a luggage cart. 
BELLBOY Hello, sir.  Have you some luggage you need carried. 
Bain gives him a wink and a smile. 
BAIN Indeed I do. 
INT. ELECTRA'S CAR - NIGHT 
The red "low fuel" light is on. 
ELECTRA Now what? 
RATH Turn off the engine. 
Electra twists the ignition and the CAR DIES.  Rath glances around and we see the car is parked in a gas station. 
ELECTRA You want me to pump? 
RATH No, stay in the car.  I want you to understand something.  If I intended to kill you, you would already be dead. 
Electra says nothing. 
He reaches over and takes the car keys. 
When he is out of the car, Electra slowly releases the strangle-hold she had on the steering wheel. 
ELECTRA Okay, Nikita, stay calm, think, breathe, think... 
Electra checks the rear view mirror, listening as Rath pumps the gas.  Her eyes flash down to her bag. 
Outside, Rath watches Electra through the windows.  She appears motionless. 
The electric gas counter races like a stop watch. 
In the car, Electra eases her hand into her bag. 
The tank full, Rath re-hangs the pump.  He walks around the car and heads for the station. 
Electra waits until his back is turned.  She pulls her tool pouch from her bag, throws it open and finds her wire stripper.  Reaching under the dash, she yanks out a tangled handful of wire. 
She looks up; Rath is inside paying. 
He inches towards it, not sure what it is.  The fiber optic cable is hidden in the light fixture hanging over the bed. 
Staring at it, he is looking right at Electra. 
Bain steps up onto the bed, his face distorting as he moves close to the fish-eye lens.  Poking it with his finger, he realizes what it is.  A warped smile stretches across his face as he whispers -- 
BAIN (V.O.) Oh, you sick little bitch -- 
Electra tears away from the screen, panic seizing hold of her. 
She rips entire drawers out of her dresser, dumping them into a suitcase, stuffing in anything that looks important.  She grabs Nikita in the "travel kitty." 
EXT. BACK PORCH 
The door opens and Electra jumps out, slamming it behind her as -- 
Bain turns from the back stairs. 
She leaps back inside as he whips out his GUN, PUMPING TWO HOLES in the door. 
INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT 
She scrambles from the kitchen, throwing her suitcase, still clutching the "travel kitty," as -- 
The back DOOR EXPLODES from its hinges, Bain charging, FIRING his GUN. 
BULLETS HISSING past her, Electra crashes through the front door into the hall. 
INT. HALL 
The stairs are at the far end.  She is only halfway, when -- 
Rath rises up the stairs, his gun cocked. 
Electra drops to the floor as -- 
Behind her, Bain barrels from the apartment. 
Rath FIRES. 
The wood DOOR SPLINTERS, BULLET HOLES surrounding Bain. Off balance, he lunges back into the apartment. 
Rath continues FIRING, grabbing hold of Electra. 
They run down the stairs. 
EXT. REAR STAIRCASE 
Bain leaps down the flights. 
EXT. ALLEY 
Bain rushes into the street, looking in every direction. They are gone. 
BAIN Fuck me! 
EXT. LARGE CHAIN HOTEL - NIGHT 
Somewhere in the city. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM 
Electra and Rath enter the room together but they are both immediately alone. 
She walks across the room to a chair in the corner, curling into it even as Nikita jumps up and curls into her lap. 
He sets his briefcase on the table at the opposite end of the room and sits. 
They watch each other.  Silence. 
Between then is the liquor cabinet.  Rath knows a good idea when he sees one. 
RATH Want a drink? 
Her face is as expressionless as Nikita's. 
He pours himself a very large bourbon and slugs it down. Takes a deep breath, then pours himself another one. 
RATH Okay... 
He returns to his table with his drink. 
RATH I'm not good at this sort of thing, but we don't have a lot of time, so I'll just go ahead and get started. First:  you.  I ask myself, 'What is she thinking?' 
Her body tightens, coils. 
RATH Simple.  She's scared.  She's almost been killed twice and now she is alone in a room with a man that she believes is an... assassin. 
Another deep pull on the bourbon. 
RATH Furthermore she was brought here not entirely on her own accord which only increases her fear and suspicion.  Thus, as long as she is afraid, her first, maybe her only thought will be escape.  Does that leave me any other option? 
He slugs down the rest of his drink and stands, whipping out his gun. 
RATH No. 
Crossing the room, he turns the gun around and offers it to her.  She looks at it.  Back at him. 
He puts it on the bed beside her, turns his back and walks to the bar. 
She picks up the gun. 
RATH If it hadn't been for me, you would be dead. 
She's up pacing, knowing there is some truth in that. 
ELECTRA I don't need the money. 
RATH This is something that is never going to end.  You can never work in the business again with this contract, because he will find you. To survive, you have to go into deep hiding.  And that's going to take money, a lot of money. 
ELECTRA Then you can have the disks and I'll just walk out that door -- 
RATH If you walk out that door, Bain will still come after you. 
ELECTRA Why? 
RATH Because he took a contract on you. He'll come for you and he'll find you. 
ELECTRA You don't know that -- you're trying to scare me. 
RATH No.  It's the truth.  I know what you are.  Like me, like Bain, you're a ghost, you're not part of the real world.  You don't have a social security number.  You don't pay taxes.  You've probably used ten different names over the last ten years.  A long time ago something probably happened, something illegal and you ran, you disappeared and it was easy.  You think you can do it again.  But I'm telling you, fading from the law is nothing.  No matter what you do, where you go, I swear to you that Bain will find you. 
ELECTRA How? 
RATH Right now, as we sit here, he is tearing through your apartment.  He is digging through your drawers, emptying your closets.  He will take your telephone and address books, your appointment books.  If you keep a diary, he is reading it.  He'll go into the kitchen and find out what kind of food you eat, liquor you drink, cigarettes you smoke.  In the bathroom he will find any prescription drugs you take and where you get them filled.  If you have video tape or recordings he will watch and listen to all of them. 
She is coming unglued.  Imagining him watching her tapes, going through her possessions.  She is moving, pacing, ready to explode. 
ELECTRA Oh Jesus Jesus... 
RATH He will know everything about you. Everything.  I know, because I've done it.  Once you've been inside a mark's home, you're in their head. If you're any good, you'll find the mark in a week, and Bain is good because I was the best and I couldn't take him. 
She whirls and starts FIRING the GUN, firing it everywhere, fear and anger rocketing out of her in WHISTLING hot wads of LEAD. 
When she stops, he starts to say something but she levels the gun at him. 
ELECTRA Shut up!  All right!  You've said enough! 
She forces herself back, grabbing handfuls of the sample bottles. 
ELECTRA I need to think... To be alone. 
With the gun and an armful of booze and Nikita following at her feet, she goes into the bathroom and slams the door. 
INT. BATHROOM 
She locks the door and then collapses.  Her body seems to fold up onto itself as she slides down the wall; the GUN and the BOTTLES falling from her arms, CLATTERING SOFTLY on the bath rug as she buries her face in her hands. 
INT. BEDROOM 
Very mechanically, Rath begins setting up his chess board, putting the pieces into the same positions.  It is a ritual, and with it he enters a kind of trance. 
From the bathroom, almost inaudible, he hears Electra CRYING. 
INT. BATHROOM 
With her head now buried in her arms and knees, she is sobbing, her body rocking.  The crying seems very similar to Jennifer's; a complete emotional release. 
INT. BEDROOM 
Rath stares at the board.  The CRYING grows LOUDER.  He stands and walks to the door.  He starts to knock but stops himself. 
Like Electra with Jennifer, Rath would like to help, he just has no idea how to.  He turns back to the desk, to his chess game. 
INT. BATHROOM 
Her eyes are now burning red.  She stops crying long enough to suck down an entire sample of Scotch.  Nikita rubs against her and she strokes her. 
ELECTRA Oh shit, Nikita. 
INT. BEDROOM 
Rath is setting up his computer system.  He hears the TUB FILLING UP. 
INT. BATHROOM 
Nikita jumps up onto the toilet seat and starts drinking. 
ELECTRA Cheers. 
Electra finishes another sample and drops it to the floor where we see that many of the bottles are now empty. 
In the tub, steam rising off the surface, she wrings out a wash cloth and covers her face, sinking deeper into the water. 
INT. BEDROOM 
When Electra comes out of the bathroom, Rath is again at his chess game.  She sits down across from him and sets the gun on the table between them. 
Rath looks up at her. 
ELECTRA Listen -- I don't even know your name. 
RATH Rath.  Robert Rath. 
ELECTRA Electra. 
RATH Just Electra? 
ELECTRA Yeah. 
RATH As in daughter of Agamemnon? 
ELECTRA No.  Just Electra. 
ELECTRA They didn't give you a choice, did they? 
RATH No, they didn't. 
ELECTRA But you knew what they were training you for? 
RATH Of course.  I was going to be James Bond. 
ELECTRA Ahhhh... 
RATH They are very good at what they do. It's very seductive.  The training, the weapons, the travel -- 
ELECTRA The exotic women. 
RATH Women?  No... not really. 
ELECTRA Why not? 
RATH Women... I don't... I don't want to talk about women. 
ELECTRA Why? 
RATH Because you are a women. 
ELECTRA Why did you leave the Agency? 
RATH The same reason everyone does.  You hear your name on C-SPAN and you realize you're a skeleton in someone's closet and they're coming to bury you. 
ELECTRA They tried to kill you? 
RATH Yes.  It didn't matter much to them as long as I disappeared. 
ELECTRA Then you went freelance? 
RATH The only thing different about the private sector is that a General Contractor takes less of a percentage than the government, so you make more money.  Then once you make the transition, you realize you were never working for the government; it was always the private sector, the vested interests and it's the same vested interests that continue to buy your plane tickets. 
ELECTRA Tell me about the first time. 
RATH My first take? 
ELECTRA Yes. 
RATH Why? 
ELECTRA Because I want to know. 
RATH It was... mechanical.  Very precise. It was exactly like the training drill except for the adrenaline. 
ELECTRA Are they usually like that? 
RATH No.  Just the first one. 
ELECTRA After that? 
RATH They become complicated... messy. 
ELECTRA Did it ever bother you? 
RATH Did it ever bother James Bond? 
ELECTRA That's fiction. 
RATH This is fiction!  Don't you see that?  This is another reality.  And the people that come into the world to play this game -- nobody forces them!  They're here, they know the rules, the stakes, the risks!  Do you understand what I am saying?  No one is innocent -- including you! 
ELECTRA Does that mean it didn't bother you? 
Rath leans back and stares at her.  She waits. 
RATH You get a job swinging a hammer, the first day you get a blister, it tears open, it bleeds and it stays sore a long time.  You keep swinging the hammer, you get a good hard callous that covers that spot and it never bothers you again. 
Electra says nothing.  He leans forward and slides a rook into her back row. 
RATH Check. 
He leans back. 
RATH Is that what you wanted to hear? Something cold blooded... something remorseless... 
ELECTRA No.  Something honest. 
A beat.  Rath likes this woman. 
She moves her Queen. 
ELECTRA Mate. 
He smiles. 
ELECTRA I hope your plan is better than your game. 
INT. CHEAP HOTEL - NIGHT 
The room is ugly.  Shag carpeting, wood paneling and polyester patterned curtains. 
We hear a COMPUTER KEYBOARD CLICKING away as we MOVE ACROSS a table.  The hotel phone is in a modem, which is held together with duct tape.  Between the modem and the computer is a scrambler constructed out of a series of naked circuit boards. 
It is a very similar set up to Rath's, only it has been put together with a fraction of the resources. 
Bain sits, typing at the computer, his shirt off.  Beside the desk-top is a six pack of Old Style beer, a bag of Doritos and his Gameboy. 
On the floor, disassembled neatly on a small white towel is his cleaned gun. 
ELECTRA I hope Nikita's all right. 
He still does not respond. 
ELECTRA Hey, where are you? 
RATH Thinking. 
ELECTRA About? 
RATH Nothing. 
Electra sips the last of her champagne. 
ELECTRA I've never been to the Gulf of Mexico.  Is it as nice as they say? 
RATH I don't know. 
ELECTRA You were there? 
A long beat. 
RATH Yes. 
EXT. SMALL MEXICAN AIRPORT - DAY 
The plane lands. 
EXT. TERMINAL CAB STAND 
Rath and Electra hand their bags to a CABBY who puts them in his trunk. 
INT. CAB 
Rath speaks perfect Spanish. 
RATH (in Spanish) Good afternoon.  We have reservations at the Hotel Paraiso in Costa Blanca. 
CABBY (in Spanish) Yes, sir. 
EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - DAY 
The cab pulls up in front of a large, brand new glass hotel, which shimmers in the blue green reflection of the gulf water. 
Rath is upset. 
RATH (in Spanish) No, no.  I said the Hotel Paraiso. 
CABBY (in Spanish) Yes.  This is the Hotel Paraiso. 
RATH (in Spanish) No, the other Hotel Paraiso, in the city.  Near the Plaza del Sol. 
CABBY (in Spanish) I'm sorry, sir.  A year ago there was a fire in the old Hotel Paraiso. This is the new Hotel Paraiso. 
RATH (in Spanish) Take us there. 
EXT. COSTA BLANCA - DAY 
American tourist dollars have built up the coasts, but much of the out-lying city is very poor. 
The old Hotel Paraiso is a five story blackened husk.  The face of the building is burnt black and it seems to hang in space as something non-corporeal, like the shadow of the building rather than the building itself. 
Rath stares at it, remembering. 
Electra is behind him, standing in the midst of the Plaza del Sol. 
He looks up to the fifth story window, then turns directly opposite of that. 
The International Banco de Mexico, an enormous, beautiful old building; its exterior walls are white-washed concrete, blindingly bright white. 
Electra looks at the bank and smiles. 
ELECTRA So, that's where all that S & L money is? 
Rath is not listening to her.  He is somewhere else.  He turns back to the fourth story window. 
RATH That's where he'll be. 
ELECTRA What? 
RATH I wasn't expecting this.  I need to think. 
EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - NIGHT 
Beyond the lights of the hotel the gulf darkens to midnight oil. 
INT. HOTEL PARAISO ELEVATOR 
On one side of the elevator is a young couple who look like newlyweds.  They are cuddling, kissing and giggling as though they are alone. 
Electra and Rath are on the other side of the elevator. It is a strange contrast. 
Electra is staring at them. 
Rath, behind his sunglasses, is in his own world. 
The ELEVATOR CHIMES and opens. 
Nobody moves. 
The DOORS CHIME again and start to close, as everyone realizes that this is their floor. 
ELECTRA I'm kind of tired.  I think I'd like to try and get some sleep. 
RATH You can have the bed.  The chair is fine for me. 
He pours himself another drink, dropping in some ice from the ice bucket. 
ELECTRA Thanks. 
She slips out of the robe and in between the sheets. 
Rath sits across the room, his back to her. 
She tries to make herself comfortable, but cannot. 
ELECTRA Do you think he's here? 
RATH Here? 
ELECTRA In Costa Blanca. 
RATH Yes. 
She thinks. 
ELECTRA What do you think he's doing? 
RATH I don't know... But I'm sure he's not sleeping. 
She pulls the covers tightly to her chin.  Her eyes do not close. 
INT. HOTEL (COSTA BLANCA) - NIGHT 
A small hotel in the city, away from the beaches, built before there was such a thing as central air conditioning. 
Bain is naked, except for a small pair of camouflage jockeys and his Walkman strapped to his shoulder.  His head is pumping wildly with the speed metal thrashing in his ears. 
He is tearing open a long box wrapped in "Happy Birthday" paper. 
Inside the box is a massive black hi-tech assault rifle. He smiles. 
He assembles it quickly, snapping it together with automatic ease.  When the sight is tightened in place, he jumps up. 
In the mirror over the dresser, he poses down with the gun. 
Not satisfied, he grabs his shades and checks himself again.  He starts moving with the music, playing with the gun, first as a guitar, then whipping it around, spinning it expertly, like a drum and bugle corpsman.  The gun zips and flashes around as he whirls in place, then freezes. 
The butt of the rifle to his shoulder, he peers down the scope at his own head reflected in the mirror.  He is sweating and breathing, but the barrel does not move. 
BAIN You're dead, motherfucker. 
EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - DAY 
Electra leans out over the railing, smiling, inhaling the warm air, the scent of the shimmering blue-green sea. 
Rath stands in the shadow of the door frame. 
RATH Breakfast. 
ELECTRA Why don't you bring it out here? It's beautiful out here. 
Rath steps a little farther out.  He looks down either side of the building, checking sight lines.  He looks out and sees another hotel with windows facing them. 
He turns to her.  Says nothing.  Moves back inside. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM 
The breakfast trays are empty.  Rath is sipping coffee, scribbling notes and diagrams on a piece of paper. 
Electra comes out of the bathroom dressed for the beach. 
He stops working. 
ELECTRA I know what you are thinking.  I'm not going to disappear, okay?  I'm not going anywhere, just down there, to that beautiful beach.  I got to get out of this room, just for a little while. 
RATH Okay. 
ELECTRA Really? 
RATH He won't be looking for you.  Just be careful.  Buy a book.  Keep your sunglasses on. 
ELECTRA Book.  Sunglasses.  Great. 
INT. HOTEL HALL 
Electra steps out of the hotel room ready for the beach. At the end of the hall, she sees the newlywed couple get on the elevator.  She starts to call to them to hold it for her, but she stops herself. 
The elevator closes. 
She edges slowly down the hall, stopping outside the door to their suite.  She touches it with the tips of her fingers. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Rath is still at the table. 
The curtain begins to billow, a soft breeze blowing through the open patio door.  They swell open and fall. It seems for a moment that there is a figure, a shadow, in the changing shape of the curtain. 
Rath stands.  He walks to the open door.  Standing in the frame, he looks out at the blue ocean below. 
He slides the door closed, and the curtains fall still. 
EXT. PLAZA DEL SOL - DAY 
RATH/SCREEN The contract? 
CONTRACTOR/SCREEN Paid in full. 
ELECTRA Oh, my God.  Ten million dollars. 
CONTRACTOR/SCREEN Transferred to the specified account. 
Rath stares at the screen. 
CONTRACTOR/SCREEN Goodbye, Robert. 
Rath disconnects.  The PHONE HUMS. 
Electra picks it up, placing it back in the cradle. 
RATH Sit down. 
She does. 
He opens a case and pulls out his gun, some paper and pens and two small mikes that look like hearing aids. 
RATH Okay -- 
He starts drawing several squares on the paper, as Electra picks up the mike.  She looks over it, frowns. 
ELECTRA Two way? 
RATH Transmits and receives. 
ELECTRA Cheap as shit. 
He looks at her. 
RATH I paid a lot for these. 
ELECTRA They saw you coming a mile away.  If I had known we'd be using -- 
RATH It's too late now.  Okay?  We'll have to deal with these. 
ELECTRA Fine. 
He goes back to his drawing. 
RATH This is the bank.  This is the hotel.  In the morning I will enter the bank. 
ELECTRA Check. 
RATH He will be hidden somewhere out here, probably somewhere low, in the crowd.  He'll stay there until he sees me enter the bank. 
ELECTRA But he won't shoot you right then? 
RATH No.  It would be amateur.  A risk. He'll wait for the prime shot, that he knows is coming.  Once I'm inside, he'll move to the hotel. He'll go up the back, too much traffic in the front. 
He draws another square. 
RATH You'll be here.  A restaurant.  A public place far enough away that he won't notice you, but with a good enough view you'll be able to see him when he moves inside. 
ELECTRA Okay.  Then what? 
RATH Then, we wait. 
ELECTRA Aiiee.  More waiting?  I don't know if I like this plan. 
RATH It will take the entire day, but he will begin to doubt himself.  He will begin to believe that he missed me, that somehow I slipped by and am already on a plane to Europe. 
He describes this as though remembering it. 
RATH The sun will be low, almost dark, the air cool and the bank will almost be closed.  5:45.  5:50.  He will put the rifle down, he will get up and he will walk across the plaza to the bank. 
ELECTRA Why won't he wait until the bank closes? 
RATH He won't be able to.  He'll have to go inside.  He'll have to see with his own eyes, whether or not I am there.  If the bank closes, he won't know for sure.  He'll come.  I'm sure.  And when he does you'll go into the hotel, go upstairs and take the gun. 
ELECTRA What?  What if he brings it with him? 
He shakes his head. 
RATH He can't.  The bank has an expensive security system; metal detectors and X-ray machines. 
ELECTRA That means you won't have a gun. 
RATH That's right. 
ELECTRA And with the mikes, I'll tell you when he leaves the hotel and you'll tell me when he leaves the bank. 
RATH If things go well, I don't have to. You'll already be in a rented car waiting for me. 
ELECTRA You'll have the money.  How do I know that you won't -- 
RATH I'll be walking out of the bank, unarmed.  You'll have the gun and I'll drive the car. 
ELECTRA We split the money? 
RATH Five million apiece.  You get on your plane, I get on mine. 
ELECTRA Sounds pretty well figured out. 
RATH I've been thinking about it for a long time. 
ELECTRA Except -- 
Her legs wrap up around his hips and he pushes deeper into her. 
ELECTRA Nice to meet you, Martin. 
INT. HOTEL PARAISO - HALL - NIGHT 
Outside of the room, we can hear the MUFFLED SOUNDS of TWO PEOPLE MAKING LOVE. 
EXT. COSTA BLANCA - NIGHT 
We are MOVING DOWN the street, LOW, OVER the old flagstones, TOWARDS the marble statue that Bain shot. 
On the ground are the shattered pieces of the head. 
CLOSER 
We see one of the pieces is part of the face, the eyes, which seem like the iris-less eyes of a chess king. 
CLOSER 
We MOVE INTO the blank white of that eye. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
WHITE SQUARE GLOSSED WITH LIGHT 
We PULL BACK, RISING UP and AWAY, and see other squares, black and white like a chess board. 
A woman's HIGH HEELS CLICK past. 
RISING HIGHER, we see the woman walking.  A man crosses behind her, in another direction. 
HIGHER STILL, and we realize that we are looking at the black and white marble floor of the -- 
INT. INTERNATIONAL BANCO DE MEXICO - DAY 
It is a strange and beautiful bank. 
The ceilings are vast, the suspended lights elaborate, baroque, the enormous clock on the wall, built to resemble a sun. 
It looks almost as though it could be a museum, with its massive oil paintings and bronze statues of important Mexican figures. 
Already it is crowded, people and security guards moving about beneath us. 
Rath steps onto the checkered floor and remembers. 
EXT. OUTDOOR CAFE 
The cafe is off the plaza. 
Electra sits at a patio table.  Down the street she can see the back of the burned-out hotel. 
She hears Rath in her ear-piece. 
RATH (V.O.) All right.  I'm in the bank.  He'll move now.  How are you doing? 
She is nervous. 
ELECTRA I'm ready. 
INT. BANK 
RATH Good. 
Rath is wearing a well-tailored, gray silk suit and dark sunglasses.  In his hand is a very large briefcase.  He crosses the checkered floor to the teller windows. 
TELLER May I help you? 
RATH Yes.  Could you check on a transfer for me? 
TELLER Your name, or account? 
RATH Rath.  Robert Rath. 
EXT. CAFE 
Electra smiles when she hears him, mouthing the name "Martin." 
INT. BANK 
A BANK OFFICIAL walks over to the window, carrying a printed receipt, with a very bright smile. 
OFFICIAL Senor Rath, we have received your transfer. 
He hands Rath the receipt.  He glances at it, checking the zeros.  There are seven of them. 
RATH Good.  Now I'll need to close this account.  I'd like you to ready the paperwork. 
The smile fades. 
OFFICIAL You wish to close this account today? 
RATH That's correct. 
OFFICIAL How would you like the funds? 
RATH American currency. 
OFFICIAL This will take some time. 
RATH I have all day. 
OFFICIAL Of course, senor. 
RATH Thank you. 
EXT. CAFE 
Electra is sipping at some iced tea, dizzy at the thought of all that money. 
ELECTRA Ten million dollars, sitting there. Waiting... this is insane. 
INT. BANK 
There is a faint smile on Rath's lips. 
EXT. PLAZA 
The shadows are getting longer. 
INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM 
Bain is rocking back and forth, breathing through his teeth.  He has to urinate.  Bad. 
He is checking every face that comes out of the bank with the scope.  Still nothing. 
BAIN This is fucking insane. 
He grabs the empty plastic bottle, unzips his pants and begins refilling it. 
A man in a suit appears on the steps and Bain fumbles the bottle, spilling it as he lifts the gun.  It is not Rath. 
BAIN Fucking God dammit! 
He hurls the bottle of piss across the room. 
INT. BANK 
The sun clock on the wall, perfectly still, reads 5:20. After a long beat a single minute clicks off. 
INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM 
The sun is getting low.  The room much darker now. 
Bain sits at the window; his body a knot. 
A large group of tourists flow out of the bank and Bain's eyes light up.  One by one, the scope passes over each face. 
They trickle down the steps and into the plaza. 
The stairs are again empty. 
Bain screams, pounding the butt of the gun down, splitting open the floor. 
He looks at the bank.  Nothing.  He checks his watch.  In fifteen minutes the bank will close. 
He stands up. 
EXT. CAFE 
Electra is watching the back of the hotel, when Bain emerges from the shadows. 
ELECTRA Oh my God. 
He is moving like a bullet, knocking into people who don't get out of his way. 
ELECTRA He's coming. 
INT. BANK 
Rath looks up at the clock, smiles. 
RATH Four minutes. 
ELECTRA What? 
RATH I waited another four minutes. 
ELECTRA Shit. 
RATH Wait until he is on the stairs. 
ELECTRA Right. 
RATH I'm taking off my mike. 
ELECTRA Okay. 
RATH Electra -- 
ELECTRA What? 
RATH Last night -- 
EXT. CAFE 
Electra smiles. 
ELECTRA Was nice. 
RATH Yes. 
She sees Bain storming up the stairs.  She stands, tosses several bills on the table and leaves. 
He's walking, turning, watching everything, everyone. He's out the door. 
INT. BURNED HOTEL 
Electra is on the fourth level, searching desperately for the gun, rushing through the black skeletal remains of the hotel. 
In her ear she hears Rath. 
RATH (V.O.) Electra? 
She shrieks. 
INT. BANK 
Rath is at the counter, as the Official loads perfectly stacked blocks of crisp one hundred dollar bills into the case. 
RATH Electra? 
INT. BURNED HOTEL 
Electra is frantic. 
ELECTRA God, I can't find it!  I can't find it!  I can't find the fucking gun! 
INT. BANK 
For Rath, everything has changed. 
EXT. PLAZA 
In long, pounding strides, Bain crosses the square, twisting, glancing back, watching. 
INT. BURNED HOTEL 
Electra nears the room below the fifth story window. 
ELECTRA It wasn't with his other stuff! 
INT. BANK 
Rath is now afraid. 
RATH Electra, get out. 
EXT. SIDE STREET 
Bain nears the opening in the plywood wall. 
INT. BURNED HOTEL 
Electra looks up and there is the gun; supported by black plumbing pipe and charred lathe.  It hangs in the space between two joists, hidden in the upstairs floor. 
RATH (V.O.) He's coming, Electra!  Get out now! 
ELECTRA Oh, God.  I see it! 
She reaches for it, but it's too high. 
RATH (V.O.) Electra, listen!  You have got to come to the bank for the money!  The money! 
She is not listening; she is rushing down the hall, back toward the stairs. 
Just as she grabs the rail, she hears BAIN STORMING INTO THE LOBBY below. 
She begins climbing the stairs, quickly but quietly. 
Bain is a rampaging beast, lunging up the stairs. 
INT. BANK 
The bank is almost empty.  Rath has begun to sweat. 
RATH Electra! 
The Official looks at him strangely, stacking the last of the green paper blocks. 
INT. BURNED HOTEL 
Electra peeks over the rail to see Bain right behind her. 
RATH (V.O.) Electra! 
The voice screams in her ear and she tears the mike off, stuffing it in her pocket. 
INT. BANK 
RATH Electra, what's happening?  What are you -- 
The Official closes the case and snaps the clasps shut. 
OFFICIAL Finido, senor. 
INT. BURNED HOTEL 
Electra turns into the hotel room just as Bain reaches the fifth floor.  There is no time. 
She slips into the closet, as Bain whips around the corner into the room.  He rushes to the window, slamming himself against it. 
BAIN You're gonna take me?  Come on! Come on, motherfucker! 
He bends down and from the hole that he fell into, pulls out the assault rifle. 
