THE ASSIGNMENT 
Written by 
Dan Gordon & Sabi H. Shabtai 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
ESTABLISHING SHOT - EXTREME CLOSE - UP - COBBLESTONES - PARIS - EARLY MORNING 
TITLE SEQUENCE BEGINS 
We OPEN with the screen filled with a dark gray, cut down the middle by a black crevice. We should be unsure of what we are looking at. Is it the surface of the moon or some primeval canyon covered in volcanic ash? Just then a liquid with a yellowish tinge finds its way down through the crevice and further divides the screen in two, like a river border dividing East from West perhaps. 
CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP to reveal that the dark gray gulch filled the screen was in fact two paving stones on a Parisian street and the yellowish river that ran down the middle of the stones comes in two tiny streams that lead to two little boys, who are peeing on the pavement, laughing at their mischief. The boys are twins. They wear backpacks and are set to go off to school. Just then we HEAR the voice of a WOMAN shouting in French (with English subtitles). 
FRENCH WOMAN (O.S.) What do you think you're going?! You ought to be ashamed behaving like that! 
CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP to reveal ever more scenes of life on this particular street. The woman shouts at the children from her window and the children run off. At the corner, fresh bread is being delivered to a sidewalk cafe, as chairs are set out at tables by white aproned waiters who are preparing for their morning clientele. 
CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP to reveal a taxi driver arguing with a deliver man as a husband kisses his wife goodbye and set off for work as we continue pulling back and across the city over Montmartre, picking up an argument between two drivers here, fresh bread being delivered to a cafe over there. Chairs are being set up at sidewalk tables as the city awakens and we float across Montmartre into a small residential quarter. Husbands kiss wives who send school children on their way as TITLES CONTINUE and the city comes more and more to life and we hover across a small square just up from the Place de la Opera, not far from the Boulevard Saint Germain-des-Pres, with Montmartre in the b.g. The square has a sidewalk cafe with tables extending out onto a peninsula of pavement that stretches to the foot of a small hotel, whose shuttered windows overlook the square. As we pull back and back over the small square, we literally... 
SFX SHOT 
...Pull backwards through the slats of the shutter, going from an aerial shot, being sucked in through the semi-closed shutters into a hotel room where we continue ever so slowly, pulling back. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - PARIS - EARLY MORNING 
The first thing we SEE in this shot which should appear seamless in its one continuous motion transition from the preceding scene, is a spider-web. We are TIGHT on the web in which a still-living insect struggles against his silky bonds. The web begins to tremble as from up above the spider drops, spinning thread lowering itself down on this latest victim, soon to be lunch. As the spider makes this journey we become aware in the b.g. of the panting sounds of lovemaking. It is a woman's breathless sighs and gasps we hear, but under that, perhaps a man's voice, perhaps not. The sounds build to a climax as the camera continues to pull back until it discovers the glistening body of a beautiful young Parisian woman in post-coital dewy Nirvana. Then, the figure of a nude man in silhouette enters frame and crosses over to the shuttered window. His face and body are half-lit by the slats of light that penetrate from the world outside the hotel room. He lights a cigarette. 
CUT TO: 
ANGLE ON - CLOSE ON THE MAN 
whom we will come to know as CARLOS. He lights the cigarette and takes a thirsty drag sucking the smoke deep into his lungs, glancing out at the street and alternately at the spider who tiptoes down to her prey. He watches the spider envelop the still-living victim with her spindly legs. Then he takes another drag on the cigarette and the ash glows bright, a burning ember which he touches ever so slowly to the spider's body. It sizzles. 
CARLOS (whispering to the burnt spider) You lose... 
He looks out through the shutters at the digital clock across the square. Then he glances back at the girl whom we will call COLETTE. The conversation is in French with English subtitles. 
COLETTE What do you mean? 
CARLOS I mean get out. 
COLETTE You're a pig, you know that? How can you be like that? 
Carlos crosses to her slowly. He runs his hand across her cheek, then down across her throat. Death is in his eyes. 
CARLOS (barely above a whisper) Leave without saying another word. 
INT. BATHROOM - HOTEL - DAY 
Carlos stands in front of the mirror. The mirror is cracked and in it we see the fractured face of Carlos staring back at us from opposite sides of the cracked glass. He wears surgical gloves. From a make up kit by the side of the sink he removes a piece of false hair and spirit gum as TITLES CONTINUE. 
A. Carlos affixes a John Lennon mustache. 
B. Carlos puts on a brown wig of moderately longish hair such as one might have seen on a student in Paris in the early seventies. 
C. Carlos puts on a pair of John Lennon granny glasses and the student look is complete. 
D. Carlos stands in front of a full length mirror in jeans and a blue work shirt over which he puts a worn grey jacket. He now looks every inch the young French student dressing down to look like one of the proletariat. 
END OF TITLES 
E. Carlos takes an M26 hand grenade and puts it into an inside pocket of his coat. He puts a machine pistol and snaps its ammo clip into it and puts it in his student's shoulder bag and then takes a Walther PPK and places it in his jeans at the small of his back. All the while that he is doing these things he sings: "ALL YOU NEED IS LOVE." 
CARLOS (singing) All you need is love... Rum da, da da da All you need is love Rum da da da da All you need is lo-ve Love is all you need. Love is all you need. 
SUPERIMPOSED: Paris, September 15, 1974. 
EXT. / INT. SIDEWALK CAFE - DAY 
It's a hot Sunday afternoon and the complex of shops and a cafe in St. Germain-des-Pres is bustling with young clientele. Inside the cafe, there is a second floor with a balustrade overlooking the tables inside. Outside, there are tables set up on the sidewalk. 
JACK SHAW, a tall, husky American in his late thirties, sits at one of the front tables outside. He reads the International Herald Tribune. The headline is, "Terrorists Seize Embassy, Issue Demands And Threaten Attacks." Jack sips his espresso. 
ANGLE ON CARLOS 
dressed as in preceding scene. He enters. Just then Jack looks up and sees him. For an instant, Carlos looks at Jack, tenses just slightly. Jack looks back at his paper paying no attention. Carlos pulls out a cigarette, pats his pockets for a light. Then he crosses to Jack. 
CARLOS Pardon monsieur... 
He mimes flicking a match and Jack looks for a match. He's out. He offers the lit end of his cigarette. Carlos cups Jack's hand. 
NIGERIAN OIL MINISTER (angry) I protest the unfound charges of the oil minister from Venezuela. We do not use, nor intend to use, the lower gradings to capture more of the market -- 
His words are cut short when the door is kicked open, and Carlos strides in. 
CARLOS (brandishing his automatic) EVERYONE FREEZE! 
Everyone frantically hits the floor. That is, with the exception of TWO BODYGUARDS. They try for their weapons. A short burst from Carlos' Beretta machine pistol which is pulled from the inside of his trenchcoat brings them to the floor. This weapon is not silenced, but deafening. Just then Koj enters the room from the corridor. 
KOJ We've got company. 
Suddenly, there's the sound of INTENSE GUNFIRE coming from the corridor. 
ANGLE ON - CARLOS 
He reaches into his trenchcoat and pulls out a pocket-sized Chinese RGD5 grenade. He yanks the pin, lets the spoon fly, listens to the fuse hiss, counts quite calmly and then tosses the live grenade to Koj who catches it and in one movement tosses it out the door. A loud sound of GRENADE EXPLOSION, and plaster powders those glued to the floor. GASPS OF TERROR. But the gunfire outside ceases. 
CARLOS My name is Carlos. You'll do as I say. 
His smile is cunning, mocking, and... familiar. 
EXT. VIENNA AIRPORT - SNOWSTORM - MAGIC HOUR 
We SEE an Air France jet liner touch down on the runway. 
EXT. VIENNA AIRPORT - SNOWSTORM - MAGIC HOUR 
Jack comes down the steps of the just-landed jet. The blizzard whips around his face as he walks down the stair unit and onto the tarmac, pulling his overcoat up around him. 
EXT. AMERICAN EMBASSY, VIENNA - SNOWSTORM - MAGIC HOUR - EST. 
INT. OFFICE - AMERICAN EMBASSY - VIENNA - NIGHT 
Behind the desk is CARL MICKENS, the CIA Station Chief -- tall, angular, cropped grey hair. He is in mid-conversation with Jack Shaw who sits opposite him, his overcoat over the arm of the chair in which he sits. He has obviously just come from the airport. 
MICKENA ...Twenty million dollars ransom. 
JACK Who's asking for it? 
MICKENA "The Arm of the Arab Revolution." Alias of the month time. (shrugs) Could be anybody. The point is... their leader claims to be Carlos... 
JACK He does, does he? 
MICKENA He wants to make sure everyone knows it's him. He wants the credit and the Austrians want a positive ID. That's when your name came up. 
JACK Who brought my name up? 
MICKENA The guy who says he's Carlos. The Austrians want you there to identify him. 
JACK Where? 
MICKENA At the airport. Tomorrow. When they provide the plane to fly him and the hostages to Libya. Carlos evidently feels very comfortable in Libya. 
JACK They got him here in their own backyard and they're gonna let him walk away?! 
MICKENA They've got no choice, Jack. 
JACK Bullshit! Let 'em handle it like the Israelis would. 
MICKENA They're not the Israelis Jack. It's not their fight. 
JACK Then let me take him out! They want me to meet him at the airport. I can get close enough to get a clear shot at him. We can end this shit now. 
MICKENA Jack! He's got seventy hostages. 
JACK Fuck the hostages! 
Mickens looks at him almost in horror. Jack knows he has let down too much of the mask of professionalism as it were. 
JACK (apologetically) Harold, we can handle it with a minimum loss of life. 
MICKENA We will handle it with no loss of life. Those aren't just any hostages. They are the oil ministers of the richest countries in the world, and that twenty million bucks they're gonna have to pay isn't gonna break 'em you know. It's nothing to them. They just want to pay it and... it's not our fight. 
JACK What do you think Carlos is gonna do with that money? Put it in mutual funds? He'll use it to hit us. Let me assemble a team and we can... 
MICKENA Jack goddamnit, there isn't any team to assemble! You're a fuckin' dinosaur. We're out of the assassination business. All of us! You got a personal hard on against this guy because he made you look like an asshole and now he's gonna rub your nose in it. I can appreciate your feelings, but it's not going down on our soil. It is not with our nationals and it is not our fight! Now I got my orders and you just got yours. 
INT. VIENNA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - VIENNA - NIGHT 
Carl, Jack and various other CIA functionaries walk quickly down the corridor with Austrian police and intelligence officers. Jack carries a briefcase as do they all. 
ANGLE ON - JACK 
JACK I gotta hit the john. 
to reveal a man standing in silhouette, the man who has just crushed out the cigarette. We cannot see his face because he has a camera to his eye. 
NEW ANGLE - POV THROUGH THE CAMERA LENS 
Through the lens of the camera just established we SEE an old Rabbi praying at the wall. CLICK! The shutter captures the shot. 
BACK TO SCENE 
The man in silhouette now lowers the camera and we SEE that he is CARLOS! There is no mistake even though the nose, perhaps is a little different and this time he is clean- shaven, it is still Carlos the Jackals. He smiles slightly. 
EXT. CHURCH OF THE HOLY SEPULCHRE 
Busy photographing it, Carlos doesn't seem to notice the TWO ARABS who watch him surreptitiously. He walks in front of soldiers who laugh and look at us POV Carlos. 
ANGLE 
Carlos reaches into his pocket. Is he perhaps going for a grenade to toss at these soldiers? We build tension as he pulls out instead, another roll of film and with great determination, we have the CLICK of the door of the camera to enhance our music beat as tension builds. Surely it can't be long till Carlos does something awful. 
EXT. MOSLEM QUARTER - DAY 
Carlos walks towards the Suq, working his way through the crown from the Damascus gate as we reveal more soldiers in the foreground, surveilling the area. 
EXT. MOSLEM QUARTER - DAY 
From the POV of the two Arabs following him, we SEE Carlos lost, or pretending to be, as he ambles along through the Suq, past all sorts of vendors hawking their wares. Heads of fish are cut off with the swift slash of a knife in one stall, freshly skinned lambs hang by their feet in another. Carlos, still looking lost, approaches a street vendor hawking rosary beads. We SEE them talk but cannot hear their dialogue. 
Carlos walks on. 
EXT. MOSLEM QUARTER - DAY 
A group of children play an impromptu game of soccer. 
NEW ANGLE - SAME SCENE - POV CARLOS THROUGH CAMERA LENS 
We watch these innocent children playing. If this was a gun sight they'd be dead. CLICK! 
NEW ANGLE 
It is Carlos who has taken the picture. His smile at the sight of the children is no longer a subtle one. There is some secret enjoyment here. 
It's then, that he notices the Two Arabs tailing him. 
CLOSE ON - CARLOS 
He frowns. 
Now what happens can be interpreted in one of two ways. Carlos takes a turn down an alleyway that has at first a shop or two, and then is nothing but deserted and foreboding alley. He is either trying to shake the two Arabs or he has just entered every tourist's nightmare: a deserted alley in a foreign country with two bad guys. He quickens his pace. The Arabs do too. Carlos now knows they're after him and he takes off running. 
EXT. MOSLEM QUARTER - DAY - CHASE SEQUENCE ANGLE 
So do the two Arabs. Only now there are THREE MORE ARABS coming after him. 
MOVING 
A tense, desperate CHASE in the Moslem Quarter's labyrinth of twisted alleys and narrow streets. When his Arab pursuers lose sight of him briefly, Carlos takes something out of his pocket, some sort of ID and throws it in an alleyway. 
EXT. SUQ - JERUSALEM - DAY 
Carlos races through the Suq, past a group of Arabs who begin heeding the call to prayer. They roll out prayer mats and begin acclaiming in Arabic that there is only one God and Mohammed is his prophet. Carlos grabs one of the canvas awnings that shade the alleyways and this cafe. He rips it off, trying to make an obstacle course between him and his pursuers. He overturns trays of olives, sacks of sunflower seeds, anything he can get his hands on. 
NEW ANGLE 
Carlos runs headlong into a copper serving platter that is hanging on display. He is disoriented, terrified, and then seemingly from out of nowhere, he is tackled, grabbed by the Arabs and dragged to a dark alley between two stores. Carlos is overcome and brought down to the ground. One of the Arabs evidently has a deep dislike for Carlos and though Carlos is subdued, he kicks the shit out of him. 
CUT TO BLACK: 
INT. WINDOWLESS CELL - DAY 
This room is your worst nightmare in the Middle East. It could be a cellar suite in Beirut, or an interrogation cell in Damascus. There is no way of knowing. It is simply an empty room with a large metal ring embedded into the floor, to which Carlos is shackled. Battered and badly bruised, he's obviously in great pain. The room's metal door SCREECHES as it opens slowly and a new man whom we will call AMOS enters. With him are two of the Arabs we've seen earlier. They're bareheaded now, without their kaffiyehs. 
AMOS (accented English) How do you feel? 
He smiles. 
CARLOS (broken English) I do not speak English. (in Spanish) Yo soy Cubano... de Cuba... Castro... Su amigos... Amigos... Entiende? 
AMOS You spoke English well enough to your contact... the street vendor... so please let's not play games. We're both professionals, Carlos. 
CARLOS (with heavy Cuban accent) My name... Ramirez... no Carlos. 
AMOS Yes, I know what your name is... Illich Ramirez... 
CARLOS No Illich. 
He looks uncomfortably over to his aide who gently keeps the line moving. CAMERA FOLLOWS ANNIBAL AND MAURA DOWN THE RECEPTION LINE. There in front of them is Jack in a white linen suit. 
JACK We do keep bumping into each other don't we. How do you do, Mrs. Ramirez? I was over at your lovely home the other day but I felt cheated because I had to leave before I had the pleasure of meeting you. 
MAURA The pleasure is mine... 
JACK Para servirle, Yo soy encantado de conocerte. 
MAURA Encantada Senor... 
JACK Shaw... Jack Shaw. 
MAURA Senor Shaw. Mucho gusto. 
RAMIREZ My wife speaks English Mister Shaw... so do I. 
JACK Perdonname, I didn't think you'd be embarrassed to speak Spanish in front of the Admiral. A sus ordenes. 
ANGLE ON 
THE BAR - Ramirez stands at the bar. 
RAMIREZ (to bartender) I'll have a club soda and... uhh... a glass of white wine please... 
Jack steps up behind him. Jack holds a small wrapped package. 
JACK Let me guess the white wine is for your wife right? Cause you're afraid to drink anything stronger than club soda around the brass. How do you stand this shit Annibal? I mean they're all so fuckin' constipated. 
RAMIREZ My wife is waiting for her wine... if you'll excuse me. 
Jack stands in front of him blocking his way. 
JACK Oh there's a fiery retort. 
RAMIREZ (under his breath) How about fuck you. 
JACK I'd believe it if you said it a little louder... 
Ramirez controls his anger which is starting to show through in the bulging veins. 
JACK Look at these guys. You don't belong with them. You belong with me. What did Darth Vader say to Luke? Come over to the dark side? You have no idea of the power we have. 
RAMIREZ Hey... I told you I didn't want anything to do with you. 
JACK How's it going to look in your jacket? Your country came to you requesting help and you turned it down. Not exactly promotion material, know what I mean? These people don't want you in their club, Annibal. I do. 
RAMIREZ The answer is no. That's the end of it. 
EXT. RAMIREZ HOUSE - DAY 
We open on a shot of the front door. The doorbell is rung and the door opens after a beat, revealing Ramirez. We don't yet see who is at the door. 
RAMIREZ Oh Jesus... what do you want? 
NEW ANGLE 
Revealing it is Jack who is at the door. 
JACK I want you to come with me. 
RAMIREZ Well then get set for disappointment. 
JACK Okay. Then you are ordered to come with me. 
RAMIREZ You can't order me to do shit. 
Just then the cellular phone which Jack holds rings. Jack smiles and holds out the phone to Ramirez. 
JACK It's for you. 
Ramirez takes the phone, totally faked out. He presses the "send" button and gingerly says... 
RAMIREZ (into Cell phone) Hello... who? Oh... yes sir... Yes sir... Yes sir... Yes sir. I will... yes sir. 
We HOLD for a beat on Ramirez's look at Jack who stands there unable to keep from smiling. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BETHESDA NAVAL HOSPITAL - DAY 
A helicopter lands in its air ambulance spot outside the Emergency Room entrance of Bethesda Naval Hospital. Out step Ramirez and Jack. They cross over to the hospital entrance. We SEE a sign on the wall identifying this as BETHESDA NAVAL HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM ENTRANCE. 
INT. BETHESDA NAVAL HOSPITAL - DOCTOR'S LOUNGE - DAY 
RAMIREZ I was just reading some... manuals... 
She bends down and kisses his neck. 
MAURA Read 'em on the Navy's time... this is my time... 
She sits into his lap, they kiss and the robe slips down off her shoulders. He kisses her more passionately now. 
INT. CHILDREN'S ROOM - RAMIREZ HOUSE - NIGHT 
Ramirez enters. He is wearing a robe, having just gotten up out of bed. It is perhaps, one in the morning. Joey is asleep, holding a stuffed animal. The baby is asleep in her crib looking like a little angel. Ramirez pulls the cover up on the baby and pats her gently so as not to wake her and then bends down and kisses his son. 
EXT. NEW LONDON, CONNECTICUT - SUBMARINE BASE - DAY 
WE SUPER THE WORDS: "NOVEMBER, 1986" 
Ramirez pulls up in a car with his wife and two children. He is wearing his khaki uniform and carries a sea bag. He embraces Maura. 
RAMIREZ You'll see... it'll go by fast. 
MAURA Not fast enough. 
Ramirez bends down to hug Joey. 
RAMIREZ You take care of Mommy, okay? 
JOEY But why do you have to go? 
RAMIREZ Well they're finally giving me my chance to go into subs... that's what I've always wanted you know... 
JOEY New color subs... 
RAMIREZ Nuclear... 
JOEY Is there going to be a war, Poppi? 
RAMIREZ Not if I can help it. 
JOEY Then why do you need to go away? 
RAMIREZ Because sometimes countries need soldiers and sailors to be on guard so there won't be a war... So all the little children like you and baby Yolanda will be safe. 
JOEY Why can't somebody else's Daddy go on the sub and you could stay here and go to my games? 
RAMIREZ Because I'm the one they asked and I'm the one who knows how to do the job. 
He kisses Joey, stands up and kisses Maura and the baby she holds and walks past the guard gate, showing his ID as his wife and children wave. 
EXT. AERIAL SHOT - MONTREAL, CANADA - DAY 
Montreal is an island in the middle of the St. Lawrence. It is a city part way up a mountain, Mount Royale. We TRACK a car as it drives up out of the city, up the mountain to of all places, a cemetery which sits at the foot of a deserted prison that looms above it. The cemetery like the prison is deserted. There can be no more desolate place than a graveyard full of long-dead prisoners whose prison has long since been shut down. 
WE SUPER THE FOLLOWING WORDS: TEMPORARY CIA SAFE HOUSE - MONTREAL, CANADA 
EXT. ROAD LEADING TO CEMETERY - DAY 
We SEE Jack's car with him and Ramirez in it driving into the cemetery. As it does, it crosses in front of a video camera inconspicuously placed in a tree. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CEMETERY TO ABANDONED PRISON - MONTREAL - DAY 
A camera mounted atop a light fixture pans with Jack's car all the way up to the prison entrance. Signs on the prison proclaim that it is closed and that trespassing is forbidden. As Jack pulls up at the prison, a plainclothed operative comes out and as Ramirez and Jack pull Ramirez's bag out of the car, the operative slips into the driver's side and whisks it away. The ground around the area is full of snow that has not been plowed so the look of desertion is complete. 
INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - MONTREAL - DAY 
There is an observation tower in the middle of the room which has become home to the pigeons who now flap noisily out of it as Jack crosses with Ramirez. The place has the look of an impromptu military encampment in a bombed out wreck of a building. In the observation room are several nondescript types. Jack shows Ramirez in. 
JACK This is an ad hoc operation set up specifically for your mission. When that's over, not even a trace of it will remain. You don't need to know anyone's name. And from now on, your name is Miguel... Security. 
RAMIREZ So your name really isn't Jack Shaw? 
JACK (smiling) Of course it is. 
INT. CORRIDOR - OFF OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY 
Jack walks Ramirez down the corridor. They pass the Surveillance Room, the small cell with its satellite dish and single computer terminal and operator established earlier as Technician #1. From here, cables snake their way along everywhere. The place has the look of a mobile high-tech spy station that just happens to be set up in a former prison. Ramirez looks around. The idea of being in a prison is obviously uncomfortable for him. 
JACK Your mother is Irish... Irish American. 
RAMIREZ Yes. 
JACK Something wrong, Miguel? 
AMOS Finally you're acting like a willful spoiled child which is just what Carlos was. 
JACK We couldn't just let you study Carlos. If this thing is going to work, you have to become him. 
Ramirez looks at him in disgust. 
RAMIREZ The two most elite intelligence services in the world and the best you can come up with is this porridge bullshit?! 
AMOS As a child Carlos was fed that porridge that you love so much every day. He hated it. Every woman or man he's ever been close to he told about that porridge... how the very smell of it made him sick. And now it makes you sick. 
JACK When he was in school he was a scrawny little kid. The last one to get picked for any teams. He felt as clumsy as we've made you feel... 
AMOS His father smoked cigars... the same ones whose smell you complained about. The only cover that can save your life... is the one you believe yourself. Now... are you ready to pass the next test? 
Ramirez just looks at them, in a kind of shock. 
AMOS I'll take that for a yes. You're about to go into your house. Your wife has told you she was away with the children for a week. She is entering the house for the first time in a week with you. The children are still at Grandma's so the two of you have a nice romantic time ahead of you. Walk through the house... through the living room and the kitchen only. You have thirty seconds. Walk casually through the house so as not to make her suspicious of anything you do and find out if she's telling you the truth or not. If you pass this test your questions will be answered. If not... you'll be sent home to Virginia and this will be the end of it. 
INT. ABANDONED PRISON - LIVING ROOM SET - MONTREAL - DAY 
Ramirez walks casually through the living room with camera following. Amos and Jack walk behind him. Ramirez bends down to tie his shoe near the sofa. He crosses into the kitchen and camera follows. He opens the refrigerator and takes out a carton of milk. He takes a drink from the carton and dribbles some onto his shirt and onto the floor. He gets an "I'm such a slob" look on his face. Then he replaces the milk, crosses to the sink, takes the sponge off the sink and a paper towel. He mops up the spill with the sponge first and then with the paper towel, then tosses the paper towel into the trash. As he speaks, Ramirez himself will be amazed at how much he is able to deduce using the techniques he's been taught. 
JACK (looking at watch) Time's up. 
AMOS Nu? Is she telling the truth or lying? 
RAMIREZ She's got to be lying, otherwise this would be a very short test and I don't think that's what you had in mind. She had a man over. 
JACK How do you know? 
RAMIREZ She hasn't been here in a week? Then why was the sponge still damp. It means she washed dishes. Take a look at the dish rack. There's water in the tray underneath it. Probably from a couple of plates. There's a bit of water in the silverware tray. The milk is still fresh... not even a hint of being sour and the date on it is a week from today... means she just bought it yesterday or the day before. The margarine's fresh-bought but it's already been opened. Same with the bread. 
AMOS How do you know it was a man? 
RAMIREZ (ignoring him a beat) She might have met him at a bar because there's a book of matches in the garbage. She was probably careful to throw the cigarette away but there's still a bit of ash and that cigarette smell at the bottom of the liner. 
JACK What else? 
RAMIREZ I think they made love on the sofa because one of the cushions has been turned over and there's the indentation of a tennis shoe print in the rug over there. 
He looks down at Jack's shoes. 
RAMIREZ Sorta like the ones you're wearing, Jack. Besides, I know it was a man because I smelled after-shave on the couch. 
He gets a quizzical look, crosses to the couch, sniffs. 
RAMIREZ ...Cheap kind. 
He crosses to Jack and sniffs Jack as well. 
RAMIREZ Jack... you've been fucking my wife. 
He holds index finger and thumb up to Jack's head like a gun, reprising his mentor's gesture to him and making the sound of a gunshot with his mouth. 
RAMIREZ Now who's dead? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CEMETERY - DAY 
We have four quick cuts. Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam! In each one, Ramirez who stands in the center of the trainers, whirls like a ballet dancer and beats each trainer to the punch, hitting dead center on each one with his paint pellet gun. From the side, Amos and Jack nod to each other approvingly. 
EXT. CEMETERY - DAY 
A triumphant Ramirez walks with Amos and Jack. 
JACK The plan is to get the KGB to eliminate Carlos for us. Carlos knows every link between the KGB and every terrorist organization in the world. He's not only the smoking gun, he knows every contact there ever was. We make the KGB think that Carlos is ready to turn... ready to go over to the CIA, and they'll take him out. 
RAMIREZ Why would they think Carlos would go over to the CIA? 
AMOS Money... fifty million... not for the forces of world revolution this time, but for him, in his pocket with a new identity and CIA protection. They'll believe it... if we lay it out right... they'll believe it. 
RAMIREZ When do we move? 
AMOS Not so fast. You're far from ready. I would think another three months of training and then... 
RAMIREZ Bullshit! I'm ready now. Give me any test you want. Christ, I already passed your tests... what more do you want? 
EXT. ABANDONED PRISON - SUNSET 
The sun is just setting. There is the silhouette of the prison in the snow. A kind of dark serenity permeates the scene. 
INT. CAFETERIA - ABANDONED PRISON - SUNSET 
He tosses the brain to Jack who catches it. 
JACK Brilliant, Doctor! 
Jack eats the brain. 
JACK And tasty, too! 
ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ 
as he walks down the corridor. 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ'S HAND 
It morphs from his own hand to that of a child and the child's hand gives birth to a woman's hand who morph's up alongside of him. It is Ramirez's mother. 
NEW ANGLE 
Child Ramirez and his Mother walk down the corridor behind two Cuban prison guards. The cells are full of Cuban political prisoners. There are shouts and screams of agony from men being tortured somewhere far off. They reach Ramirez's father's cell. Child Ramirez reaches out for his father's hand. A guard pushes his hand away. RAMIREZ'S FATHER speaks in Spanish. 
RAMIREZ'S FATHER Vaya mi hijo. Vaya rapido! 
INT. CORRIDOR - ABANDONED PRISON - NIGHT ANGLE ON - PIGEONS 
They come flapping their wings, dive bombing at us. 
NEW ANGLE - RAMIREZ 
He walks in his black jeans and T-shirt. The cells are empty around him but up ahead he hears the sounds of someone making love. Well, not making love... fucking. He approaches the sounds and there in one cell is is wife Maura under Carlos, humping away at her. Carlos looks up at Ramirez. 
ANGLE ON CARLOS 
in cell humping Maura. 
CARLOS (looking at Ramirez) I think she likes me better... don't you baby. She likes it rough... you never knew that? Yala... ruh mi hun. 
He motions for Ramirez to leave. 
ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ 
He is about to rush the cell when more pigeons come flapping down at him. He turns and... 
INT. CORRIDOR - ABANDONED PRISON - NIGHT - SFX NEW ANGLE 
The pigeon becomes a dove gliding in a shaft of moonlight. Then it leaves the moonlight and it turns into a crow. 
NEW ANGLE 
The crow turns back into a dove and then suddenly the dove begins to choke, to vomit. It opens its beak and out of its mouth emerges the wet, slimy head of a full grown ravenous crow. It is coming straight out of the dove's mouth and straight at us, to devour us. We HEAR RAMIREZ SCREAM OVER THIS. 
INT. ABANDONED PRISON - CORRIDOR ENTRANCE - MORNING 
Jack and Amos walk down the corridor. They both look as if they have been up all night, which indeed they have. Both are in need of a shower and shave. 
AMOS I hope we didn't go too far with this. 
JACK I'd rather have him wind up in a mental institution fucked up on LSD than shot in some back alley in Libya. If he can't handle this, he sure as shit can't handle going operational. 
They round the corner. There, looking up at them, sitting in a chair, showered, shaved, looking fresh and ready to greet the day is Ramirez. He is reading his Arabic book. He looks up at them. 
RAMIREZ Okay... what's next? 
INT. KGB HEADQUARTERS - CORRIDOR - MOSCOW - NIGHT 
We begin on a shot of a huge statue of Lenin which dominates this corridor. As camera swings around we SEE a HEAD KGB OFFICER with his KGB AIDE. OVER this shot we SUPER: 
KGB CENTRAL COMMAND - MOSCOW 
The head KGB officer holds a report. He reads aloud in Russian and we SUPER ENGLISH SUBTITLES. From now on, all dialogue in Russian will be indicated by putting the dialogue in parentheses. The KGB Officer is very smug about the report. 
HEAD KGB OFFICER (glancing up from report) [We're just gotten information from our resident in Zurich that the CIA head of station there has deposited letters of credit in the amount of fifty million dollars into the account of a Mister Paulo Ortega... It would appear the Americans are dangling a very impressive bait for what I can only assume is a very juicy fish. I want to know who this Paulo Ortega is and what he's going to give the CIA that is worth so very much money. And then we'll see what we can do about that.] 
He smiles with a great deal of self-satisfaction. 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - MAGIC HOUR - AERIAL SHOT 
Ramirez races down the road in the Jeep. The road twists and turns as a light snow begins to fall. 
INT. JEEP - NIGHT 
Ramirez drives and we SEE that he has an earpiece which goes to a Walkman tape recorder. We HEAR the instructions being fed to him on the tape in Jack's voice: 
JACK (THRU TAPE) You're going to hit a hairpin turn exactly three tenths of a mile from the stop sign which should be coming into view at any minute. 
CARLA Stop!... Stop it! 
She pushes Ramirez back. She sits up gropes for a cigarette. 
RAMIREZ What... What'd I do... 
CARLA He never loses control... He never tells you how he feels. He's in control. He's the one who makes you feel what he wants you to feel. He never feels anything... You stupid... stupid... 
She fumbles with a lighter... Then she throws it aside and the cigarette. 
CARLA Roll over! 
RAMIREZ Why? 
CARLA On your back! 
Ramirez rolls onto his back and she gets on top of him. CAMERA SHOOTS FROM THE WAIST UP. 
CARLA I'm Carlos... You're me. 
She starts humping him. Her voice goes down very low. 
CARLA You like it... 
She humps harder. Ramirez evidently does. 
RAMIREZ Yeah. 
CARLA You like it? 
RAMIREZ Oh baby... 
CARLA Ooooo I want to make you come... 
RAMIREZ Yeah... 
CARLA I want to make you come... I want to feel it all over me. 
RAMIREZ Yeah... yeahhh... Yeahhhhhh. 
Ramirez is almost at the point of orgasm and Carla reaches down with her hands and starts to choke him. 
RAMIREZ (scared) What the fuck are you doin'? 
CARLA Let me... let me do it... Put your hands down. 
She humps him harder and chokes him and he climaxes and then she releases her grasp on his throat... 
CARLA He does that... he's crazy... he chokes you... just a little. 
She gets off him and lights up a cigarette. 
CARLA Then he goes to the refrigerator and eats... He's always hungry afterwards... always... God I feel like filth. 
She starts crying and the crying grows louder. Ramirez rolls over to her to take her in his arms. 
RAMIREZ I'm sorry... I'm sorry. 
CARLA Get your hands off me! 
RAMIREZ Shh... I'm not him... I'm not Carlos... I'm... 
CARLA I don't care who you are. I don't want to know anything about you... except that you're going to kill him. 
EXT. KGB HEADQUARTERS - MOSCOW - NIGHT 
INT. KGB OFFICE - NIGHT 
A HEAD KGB OFFICER is with a KGB AIDE. He reads a report. 
HEAD KGB OFFICER [It seems our friendly bank manager in Zurich has received instructions to put a new name on the account of our mysterious Mister Paulo Ortega... Agnieska Kozinski. Does the name sound familiar?] 
KGB AIDE [Should it?] 
HEAD KGB OFFICER [I ran a check on her. She's a French national... originally Polish. She was a girlfriend of Carlos.] 
KGB AIDE [Our Carlos?] 
HEAD KGB OFFICER [The question is... is he still our Carlos. Or is he about to become someone else's.] 
EXT. AGNIESKA'S APARTMENT - PARIS - DAY 
A beautiful young woman whom we will come to know as AGNIESKA enters her apartment building. 
SUPER: TRIPOLI, LIBYA - MAY 1987 
INT. LIBYA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - DAY 
A cold, dreary, oppressive airport. Grim-looking SOLDIERS and even more menacing SECURITY MEN in dark glasses. In the line of arriving PASSENGERS, at the passport control booth, is a limping Colombian businessman. Scanning the place from behind sunglasses, his heart is POUNDING, POUNDING, POUNDING. This is it. This is real enemy territory now, and he knows it. 
RAMIREZ'S POV 
The foreboding paranoia that everyone is staring at him. Soldiers, security men, airport employees, other passengers. They all seem to know his secret. They're all just waiting for the axe to fall. Ramirez heads over to the Customs booth. He turns back as a guard pushes him aside to let pass a rich Arabic family. A young fat girl holding some toys grimaces at him as she indelicately makes her way with her family through the crowd. In the b.g. we notice a Mercedes waiting for them through the glass doors of the airport. Ramirez continues on his way towards the Customs booth. Behind a curtain, he sees a man being searched. 
OFFICIAL El Pass'port! 
The sudden harsh voice jolts us all. 
CLOSE - OFFICIAL 
Pockmarked face with exaggerated features. Ugly and mean. Ramirez hands him his Colombian passport. The POUNDING quickens. 
OFFICIAL Sheil el Nadara! 
He barks in Arabic, motioning Ramirez to remove his sunglasses. Ramirez does, fighting to remain calm under the man's granite gaze. The official looks at the passport and back at Ramirez. The following dialogue is in Arabic with English subtitles. 
Now and for every other scene in which Ramirez passes himself off as Carlos, he has brown eyes. 
OFFICIAL Ricardo Moran Vargas? 
RAMIREZ Yes. 
CLOSE - RAMIREZ'S FACE 
Tiny beads of sweat begin to form on his forehead. 
OFFICIAL Your business? 
RAMIREZ Pipes. I sell pipes. 
OFFICIAL Pipes? 
Ramirez nods, smiling apologetically, searching for the words in Arabic. Ramirez struggles to appear calm. His heart's POUNDING, however, intensifies. 
RAMIREZ For the oil... 
OFFICIAL Oil? 
RAMIREZ Pipes for oil... Petroleum... 
OFFICIAL (after a beat) Step over behind the curtain. 
NEW ANGLE 
Ramirez's luggage is being thoroughly searched by the Official. Finally the Official looks up at him. 
OFFICIAL All right. You can go. 
Finally he stamps the passport. 
EXT. LIBYA PALACE HOTEL - DAY 
We have a shot of the cab, an old Mercedes coming towards us, and then under the arch leading to the entrance of the hotel. Ramirez steps out and he's assailed by a bunch of kids begging and trying to grab his baggage. He looks around. 
ANGLE - POV RAMIREZ 
Across the street at a cafe soldiers with guns laugh. From a shop window, the silhouette of a man seems to look right at us. Across the street, kids on a balcony throw a water balloon at a horse pulling a cart and the horse bolts right in front of Ramirez. 
BACK TO SCENE 
As the street urchins continue to beg and grab at his luggage, and the taxi driver demands impatiently to be paid, suddenly out of nowhere, a bellboy appears and smacks one of the kids who falls to the ground. They all disperse as the bellboy takes the luggage and leads Ramirez who pays the cab driver and then crosses to the hotel. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - LIBYA - DAY 
The bellboy enters with Ramirez, sets down his bags and then opens the shutters of the window. Ramirez tips him silently. Once the bellboy has left, Ramirez walks to the phone and checks it out. Then he crosses to the shutters. Perhaps he sees a shadow looking in his direction from the dark apartment across the street. He closes the shutters. Just then, there's a LOUD KNOCK on the door. He jumps and automatically goes for his gun. But he has no gun... and his heart begins to POUND again. The LOUD KNOCK repeats itself. 
RAMIREZ (in Spanish) Who's there? 
An incomprehensible response in Arabic. 
RAMIREZ (in accented English) What do you want? 
VOICE Room service. 
RAMIREZ (after a pause) I not order nothing. 
VOICE Iced water. 
He reaches up to his glasses and takes them off and his mustache and false nose... 
RAMIREZ Then I'm going to have something to eat... I'm famished. 
PRODUCTION NOTE: THE BEGINNING OF THIS SCENE SHOULD BE PLAYED WITH ANOTHER ACTOR SO THAT THE AUDIENCE HAS NO HINT THAT THIS IS RAMIREZ. THEN ON THE CUT WHERE HE TAKES OFF HIS GLASSES, IT SHOULD BE THE ACTOR PLAYING RAMIREZ, BUT HE IS BALD. 
AGNIESKA You bastard! I haven't see you for two years and this is the way you... 
Ramirez laughs. 
RAMIREZ I had to be sure I could still trust you. 
He bends down to her and kisses her. 
AGNIESKA I came all the way to this god- forsaken country didn't I? I've been holed up in this place you arranged for me for the past twenty-four hours... I couldn't eat I couldn't sleep... nothing just sitting in here waiting for you. 
He picks her up in his arms and starts carrying her to the bed. 
RAMIREZ So why did you leave. . .? 
AGNIESKA Whoever stocked this place with food didn't leave much of a selection... I wanted to go out and get some nice things for you. You weren't supposed to be here for another three hours. I could have made a nice dinner. 
RAMIREZ I've got what I want to eat in my arms right now. 
He lays her down on the bed and pulls up her skirt and his head goes down out of screen as Agnieska arches her back and sighs. 
EXT. HARBOR - LIBYA - LATE AFTERNOON 
The silhouette of a fishing boat drifts along the coastline. 
INT. FISHING BOAT - LIBYA - LATE AFTERNOON 
We see the silhouettes of two men against the out of focus backdrop of the city. They are Jack and Amos, chain smoking. Both men dressed as fishermen. Jack checks his watch. 
JACK I wonder what he's doing now. 
AMOS Practicing safe sex, I hope. 
INT. BEDROOM - APARTMENT IN LIBYA - SUNSET 
Ramirez is in bed with Agnieska. She lays back smoking a cigarette, sighing. 
AGNIESKA My God... my God... 
RAMIREZ Yeah... Now, let's eat. 
He gets up and throws on his pants and crosses into the little kitchen. Agnieska follows, draping a blanket around her. She crosses to a window and opens it. 
RAMIREZ What are you doing? 
AGNIESKA Just getting some air in here... Don't be so jumpy. 
He turns back to the refrigerator and opens it. Agnieska crosses to the fallen sacks of groceries. 
AGNIESKA Forget about what's in there... I found caviar and, here's some pate. 
RAMIREZ Didn't like the food I'd left for you, huh? 
His eyes scan the refrigerator. 
AGNIESKA Couldn't eat a bite of it. 
ANGLE ON RAMIREZ 
His eyes still scan. He pulls a cucumber out of the refrigerator and takes a bite and makes a face. 
RAMIREZ Ughhh... I don't blame you. 
He opens the lid on the garbage can and throws the cucumber inside. 
ANGLE ON INSIDE OF GARBAGE CAN 
At the bottom are cigarette butts. CAMERA ZOOMS IN ON ONE - IT IS FILTER-TIPPED. 
Ramirez turns around to her and comes up behind her. 
RAMIREZ Who was here smoking a filter-tip cigarette my darling? 
AGNIESKA What? 
RAMIREZ You don't smoke filters. 
AGNIESKA What are you talking about? 
EXT. SMALL ALLEY - NIGHT 
Ramirez arrives at a small street. In the distance we SEE the lights of a bright and busy street. Suddenly, headlights hit his face, gunfire rings out and Ramirez takes off followed by the oncoming car. 
INT. COURTYARD - LIBYA - NIGHT 
Ramirez is running from the car dodging bullets. Ramirez lobs a grenade at the car. It explodes right in front of the car, not taking it out, just damaging it. Ramirez runs across the street and is hit suddenly by a motorcycle which then veers off and goes crashing into an oncoming car. Ramirez gets up and runs into a doorway. 
INT. COURTYARD - LIBYA - NIGHT 
Ramirez, sweating and out of breath, scans his new and dark surroundings. While bleeding, Ramirez suddenly turns around and shoots. A DST agent falls out of the darkness, dead. Ramirez hears something. Turning around, Ramirez shoots an agent at the top of the building. The body falls and gets tangled into the string of electrical wires. He reaches into his pocket, pulls out another clip and re-loads. 
EXT. STREET - LIBYA - NIGHT 
Ramirez comes out of the doorway and waves down a taxi. Ramirez jumps into the driver's seat, pushing the driver aside. When the driver resists, Ramirez throws him out into the street. 
A passing truck nearly hits the driver. Other Arabs start approaching Ramirez but back off immediately once he raises his gun. The taxi makes a U-turn and leaves, racing through traffic. Ramirez checks his mirror and sees that he is picked up by a DST car. They begin to shoot at Ramirez and his back window shatters. 
EXT. SMALLER STREET - LIBYA - NIGHT 
Ramirez is driving full speed. The car jumps as it hits the junction of the street. Ramirez continues to be followed by the car of DST agents. Ramirez turns into a small alley. 
EXT. NARROW STREET - LIBYA - NIGHT 
Ramirez drives down the narrow street. The sides of the car barely fit through. Sparks fly from the metal scratching against the walls. The taxi's mirror pops off as the chase continues. 
EXT. SMALLER STREET WITH ARCHES - LIBYA - NIGHT 
The cars continue to race through the streets. Ramirez suddenly sees two kids coming out of a garage. Ramirez veers out of the way and misses the kids. The car goes crashing into scaffolding and paint drops down onto the windshield. Once again, we Intercut the flashback of Ramirez killing the first DST agent, being splattered with his blood. Ramirez continues to drive away, wiping away the paint on the windshield. 
EXT. SMALLER STREET WITH CAFE - LIBYA - NIGHT 
Ramirez tries to wipe away the paint. The cars continue to race through the streets. 
EXT. STREET - LIBYA - NIGHT 
The two cars disappear down a hill. Ramirez's vision is blurred by the paint on the windshield. A car suddenly appears that forces him to veer left into a stairwell. The taxi descends the stairway. Ramirez suddenly pulls the parking brake and the other car hits Ramirez's car and flips over it and explodes. Ramirez, watching the explosion, takes off the other way. 
EXT. STREET IN LIBYA - NIGHT 
On the harbor, a police car is seen next to Ramirez's taxi. The sergeant reveals some blood inside the taxi but Ramirez is nowhere to be found. We SEE the KGB on the scene. 
EXT. HARBOR - LIBYA - NIGHT 
The fishing boat enters the harbor. Jack stands on the deck as the boat passes under a bridge. Out of nowhere a man jumps onto Jack and shoves him to the ground. Holding him by the neck, Amos appears and is about to hit Ramirez but Ramirez grabs Amos' arm and stares at him. 
EXT. VILLA - LIBYA - NIGHT - ESTABLISHING SHOT 
We SEE Carlos' villa through the barbed wire. The silhouette of a guard is on top of the building. 
INT. VILLA BEDROOM - NIGHT 
The real Carlos is asleep in the bed with a beautiful Arabic woman. A Japanese KOJ enters and taps Carlos on the shoulder. Instantly he springs awake with a gun in his hand pointed at KOJ. 
KOJ Illich... you must get dressed. There was a shooting tonight... We have to talk. 
CARLOS What shooting... who? 
EXT. FISHING BOAT AT SEA - NIGHT 
INT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHT 
Jack and Amos are with Ramirez who is furious. Amos is binding Ramirez's wounds. 
RAMIREZ What the fuck are you talking about, you didn't know she was working with the DST? 
JACK We didn't. How the fuck should we know? 
RAMIREZ They're our allies, for Christ's sake! 
JACK They didn't tell us this time. Why should they it was their operation. And we sure as shit weren't gonna let them in on you being here. 
RAMIREZ Why not?! That way they wouldn't have tried to kill me and I wouldn't have wound up killing them. 
AMOS It would have been too dangerous. 
RAMIREZ Too dangerous... what the fuck do you think that was back there? Safe? How the fuck more dangerous does it have to get? 
JACK Annibal, the important thing was it worked! The Russians have to think it was Carlos now... . What did they see? They trail the girl... and then there's a shoot out. Let's make sure they know it was DST... we can make sure they get that information. If they know the DST was there then what were they doing there if it wasn't to get Carlos. She betrayed you, so tomorrow we take her name off the bank account and we set up another place for them to get their pictures. We burned Libya but okay so we'll find another place. The only thing that matters is they've got to believe it now. It's perfect! 
RAMIREZ You fuckin' maniac! I killed four DST agents tonight! They're our allies and they were tryin' to kill me and I killed them. I killed our allies! 
JACK Hey fuck our allies! 
JACK No, go right ahead. 
Ramirez sits down and now the conversation is in hushed tones. 
RAMIREZ I want to go home. I want to see my family. 
JACK This isn't the place for this conversation. 
RAMIREZ (pissed off) No rules, remember? I want to go home. You said yourself we can't move again till he leaves Libya. You don't even know when that's gonna be. He might stay there another year for Christ's sake. 
JACK No he won't. He's gonna make a move and it'll be in Europe just to stick it up the DST's nose. I'm gonna go and find out about our connecting flight. 
ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ 
He picks up his soup spoon and turns it over and uses it to scan what's going on around him. 
ANGLE ON - SPOON 
IN the spoon we SEE Koj with a flight bag walking across the cafeteria toward Ramirez. 
BACK TO SCENE 
Koj crosses around in front of Ramirez to get a better look, obviously surprised to see what he thinks is Carlos. Koj leans in close to Ramirez. 
KOJ (whispering) Carlos... what are you doing here? 
Ramirez looks at him, shocked for a moment and then recovering. 
RAMIREZ (hissing) You idiot! Don't you know better than to approach me in public! 
KOJ (loudly) Excuse me sir... I only wanted to know where I could buy a newspaper. 
RAMIREZ Go over there by the phone booths and wait... I'll come to you. 
Ramirez gets up casually. 
ANGLE ON - AMOS 
He has heard everything that has gone down. 
ANGLE ON - KOJ 
He waits, standing a few feet away and not by the phones as he was told. He watches Ramirez. Something doesn't jibe... passwords were not exchanged. He crosses to Ramirez's side. 
KOJ (loudly) Excuse me sir... I asked if you knew where I could buy a newspaper. 
Ramirez stops for a moment. He knows that the line is some kind of code and he has no response to give so he starts up walking again. Koj is instantly behind Ramirez, his hand going into his flight bag and pushing the flight bag up against Ramirez's back. 
KOJ Make the slightest move and I shoot... and I don't miss. Walk to the rest room, very carefully. 
Ramirez does as he is told. 
ANGLE ON 
Amos. He watches it all going down in the back of a chrome napkin holder. He slowly gets up, looks around for Jack and goes out into the corridor and sees Koj and Ramirez going into the rest room. Koj sees one of those sandwich board signs off to the side which says, "LAVATORY TEMPORARILY CLOSED FOR CLEANING." He pulls it in front of the door. 
INT. RESTROOM - STALL - HEATHROW AIRPORT - DAY 
Koj has Ramirez's head with one hand, while he holds the gun on him with the other. He forces Ramirez's head down deep into the toilet bowl. He flushes. The water level sinks and then rises, covering Ramirez's face. Koj holds him under water long enough to almost drown him. Then, instead of lifting his head out, he flushes again and the water level lowers. 
KOJ Tell me what I want to know quickly or you're dead. 
Just then Ramirez manages to kick back and overpower Koj and send him flying back out through the door of the stall. Ramirez is back on him in a second but Koj has his gun up and pointed right at Ramirez's head. They have shifted position now, so that they are not facing the stall, but the door of the bathroom. Koj is about to pull the trigger when we HEAR: 
AMOS (O.S.) Down!! 
NEW ANGLE 
Ramirez ducks and rolls out of the way and Amos fires two shots into Koj's chest but not before Koj can get off a round right into Amos' chest. In an instant Ramirez is on the still- alive Koj grabbing his head in his hands and slamming it down onto the edge of the sink with a thud that cracks his skull. He quickly crosses to Amos who is dying. 
AMOS Get out of here... now... 
RAMIREZ I've got to get you to a doctor. 
AMOS Get out now... 
Ramirez cradles him. 
RAMIREZ I'm not going to let you die here... I've still got a lawsuit against you, remember? 
Here, Amos speaks as a doomed father would to a son who still has a chance to save himself from the Holocaust. 
AMOS My dear boy... my dear dear boy... I am dead. Please God, don't let it all be for nothing... Get out now... 
CUT TO: 
INT. RAMIREZ HOUSE - STUDY - VIRGINIA - NIGHT 
We begin on a shot of Ramirez's chair. It rocks back and forth violently as we PAN UP and SEE Ramirez, who is fucking Maura. They are both fully clothed, skirt hiked up, fly unzipped. This is not lovemaking. He is fucking her brains out. It is passionate, rough sex. Maura hits high "C" as Ramirez sweeps books off of a table, lifts her out of the chair and lays her out on the table. The two of them climax together. It is clear from Maura's look that this is the best sex she's ever had. Ramirez slowly rolls off her. He is smiling as well, and then becomes aware that Maura has begun to cry. 
RAMIREZ What's wrong? 
MAURA You've been with another woman... haven't you. 
RAMIREZ What are you talking about? 
MAURA Haven't you? 
RAMIREZ No. What... what would make you say a thing like that? 
MAURA You're different... 
RAMIREZ Maura... I was on a submarine... there aren't any women on submarines... There was nothin' to do but read. They had one of those... how to improve your sex life books... I must have read it about ten times. I tried out a couple of things from chapter three okay? I mean if it didn't turn you on blame Doctor Ruth okay? 
MAURA (unconvinced) Okay. 
RAMIREZ Great. You want to check with the Navy to see if we had shore leave... I'll get you a fuckin' letter okay? 
MAURA I don't need any letters. And I don't need you to talk to me like that either. 
Ramirez gets up and zips up his fly. 
MAURA Where are you going? 
RAMIREZ Get somethin' to eat... I'm starving. 
He exits. 
EXT. RAMIREZ HOME - DAY 
SUPER: JULY, 1987 
INT. RAMIREZ HOME - DAY 
Ramirez comes into the house from the garage. 
RAMIREZ Maura... Maura! 
Maura comes out of the kitchen. 
MAURA What? 
RAMIREZ Where's the car? The car's not in the garage. Where's the car? 
MAURA The fellow at the service station said it needed a tune up. I took it in this morning... You didn't say you were going to need it. 
RAMIREZ Don't do that anymore. 
MAURA What? 
RAMIREZ I don't want anybody workin' on the car. Car needs something I'll do it. But I don't want anybody touchin' that car. 
MAURA Why? What difference does it make. 
RAMIREZ It makes a difference to me okay? So don't do it. 
MAURA Did you check the mail? 
RAMIREZ Yeah I checked the mail. Still nothin' from the Navy. Why, you so anxious to get rid of me? 
MAURA I don't want you goin' back to those subs. I'll tell you that. 
RAMIREZ Yeah well I don't have much to say about it. It's the Navy you know. 
MAURA You can request another assignment. It's changed you Annibal. It's hurting us. 
RAMIREZ What's hurting us? 
MAURA Your attitude... that's what hurting us. 
RAMIREZ My attitude. I don't have an attitude man... you got an attitude. 
MAURA You're suspicious of everything that goes on... you snap at Joey, you snap at me. I don't like it. 
RAMIREZ Look I just... it's hard gettin' used to... you know... it's hard... Listen... tomorrow's Joey's game. Let's just go to Joey's game. It'll be nice. It'll be like it always was. You'll see. 
He holds her to him. 
CUT TO: 
INT. POLICE STATION - MARYLAND - DAY 
The cell's metal door SCRAPES as it opens. The POLICE CAPTAIN motions to Ramirez to follow him. 
MOVING 
Leading Ramirez through a number of corridors, the Captain stops at a closed door. 
CAPTAIN (opening the door) He's all yours. 
Remaining outside he motions Ramirez to enter. 
INT. ROOM - POLICE STATION - DAY 
Ramirez enters and sees Jack who smiles his cynical smile. 
JACK Little League, huh? Tough game. 
RAMIREZ What are you doing here? 
JACK It's show time. 
EXT. POLICE STATION - MARYLAND - DAY - RAIN 
Ramirez exits with Jack and starts across the street in the rain. 
RAMIREZ I got to have time to think it over. 
JACK There isn't any time. He's on his way to East Berlin. We have word he's planning another attack in Europe. He'll be there maybe four days at the most. 
Ramirez stops dead right in the middle of the street. The traffic swirls around them. 
RAMIREZ Hey, I don't know what to do anymore, okay? I almost killed some little kid's father today. I don't know about anything anymore. 
JACK Hey, he was a baseball dad. He deserved it. Besides, from what I heard his kid was out, so what's the beef? 
RAMIREZ I don't know if I could come back from it again. 
JACK What happened to I want the son of a bitch dead? You think Carlos has had a change of heart and turned nice all of a sudden? 
RAMIREZ Don't tell me about Carlos, Jack. I know exactly who Carlos is. I know a hell of a lot better than you do. But, maybe there's more important things to me, like keepin' from goin' crazy... like gettin' back to bein' me instead of me bein' some kind of fuckin' maniac. 
JACK You want to get back to bein' you? Then finish it. Kill him. Kill him and he's dead and it's over with. You walk away from it now and what do you think you're gonna be like the next time you read that that son of a bitch blew up some airplane full of women and kids. 
RAMIREZ Hey, the guy deserves to be dead. I know that. 
JACK This isn't abstract, Annibal. You're walkin' around with his face. Sooner or later one of the bad guys is gonna see it like Koj did, and next time Amos won't be there to take the bullet for you. Carlos doesn't forget. You help me get him or you're never gonna know when he's comin' after you... Listen to me kid. I don't have any friends, no family, no nothin'. The only relationships I ever had that mattered to me were with the people I killed. But I... I fucking created you! You can't just walk away now. 
RAMIREZ You did create me, didn't you... From the beginning... that kid in the hospital in Bethesda... when I was supposed to be the doctor... It was all bullshit, wasn't it? All an act... 
There is a long pause. Jack turns cold as ice. 
JACK This doesn't have anything to do with you and me. It's you and Carlos. You help me kill him... or I swear to you... I'll make sure he knows about you... I'll use you for bait. You and your whole fuckin' family too. 
Ramirez grabs him and throws him against a parked car. He begins choking Jack. He may well kill him. Though Ramirez doesn't see it at first, Jack's gun is already out. Jack nudges Ramirez in the stomach with it. Jack is choking, unable to speak, but the gun is speaking for him. 
JACK Huh? Huh? 
Ramirez looks down and see the gun and loosens his grip. 
JACK You want to try and kill me, that doesn't solve your problem, pally. You've got a Carlos problem. That's the guy you've got to kill. That's what it's all about now... you... and your family... or him. 
INT. RAMIREZ HOME - KITCHEN - VIRGINIA - NIGHT 
Ramirez is there alone with Maura. They are in mid-argument. 
MAURA No! I won't let you do it! You're not going back to those subs! It's changed you... You need help, Annibal. You could get some kind of stress disability or... 
Suddenly, Ramirez bellows and slams his hand down on the counter. 
RAMIREZ Enough! 
Maura is shocked by the sudden violence in him. 
MAURA No, not enough. Whatever is going on out there with your job... 
RAMIREZ With my job!? What do you think my job is, Maura... huh? What do you think is out there? A nice, pretty safe little world with shopping malls and little league and ballet lessons. You sit here in your little kitchen and cook your little meals... 
He looks at her almost in disgust. She sees the look and slaps him. Faster than she could ever have considered, he slaps her and sends her back into the wall. She holds her cheek. He is an inch away from her face and now he is about to show her Carlos, to become him in front of her. 
RAMIREZ People are killing people out there! Jackals are licking up their blood waiting for the next corpse to drop... and I'm one of them. You get that? Do you get that now?! 
Entering the place, they pretend to be camera-carrying Russian tourists. A common sight in East Berlin. 
ON RAMIREZ 
He stops and stares. 
RAMIREZ'S POV 
Through the jam pack, the profile of a man, with a Tyrol hat who sits along the back wall. Busy eating, he seems totally oblivious to the hoopla around him. We can't really see his face. 
ON RAMIREZ 
As he cautiously approaches what he thinks is Jack. It isn't him. There is a sudden look of panic on his face and then he spots Jack also in the same kind of hat. Lifting his head, and turning to face Ramirez, we too recognize him. Under the hat, and the new heavy eyebrows and mustache, is... Jack. He smiles, takes off his hat, and motions his quest to sit down. 
ON ANDREI (THROUGH IVAN'S CAMERA) 
He's posing with a giant stein. A slight shift of focus and we can see Ramirez. Jack, however, is hidden by the waiter's back. Then, the Waiter moves on. 
ZOOM 
A clear, unobstructed picture of Jack and Ramirez up close. 
CLICK, CLICK, CLICK, CLICK, CLICK... The rapid CLICKING stops only when the view of the two is blocked again by other people. 
EXT. STREET OUTSIDE BEER HALL - DUSK 
Ramirez emerges from the beer hall. He heads back to his motorbike. 
ANGLE 
Seconds later, the two KGB come out. This time, only Andrei takes after Ramirez. Ivan gets into a taxi which heads in an opposite direction. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. STREET OUTSIDE MANSION - NIGHT 
Reaching the mansion, Ramirez discreetly steals his way toward its back wall. Then, just as slyly as he earlier had materialized, he disappears. 
ON VLADIMIR AT HIS POST 
Watching Ramirez vanish into the mansion wall. 
EXT. RAMIREZ'S HIDING PLACE - NEAR MANSION - NIGHT 
He lies in the thick bushes, completely obscured from anyone's view and now he removes the blond wig and the rest of his disguise. Underneath his "disguise" clothes, he is wearing a pair of black jeans and black T-shirt. He looks exactly like Carlos now. 
PRODUCTION NOTE: IT IS IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND WHAT IS GOING ON HERE. THE REAL CARLOS HAS NOT DYED HIS HAIR BLOND. THIS WAS NOT THE REASON FOR RAMIREZ PUTTING ON A BLOND WIG. THE LOGIC HERE IS THAT IF THE "REAL CARLOS" WERE IN FACT GOING TO A MEET WITH A CIA AGENT, HE WOULD HAVE PUT ON SUCH A DISGUISE TO MAKE SURE HE WAS NOT SPOTTED BY THE RUSSIANS. 
INT. BLACK VOLGA - EAST BERLIN - NIGHT 
Jack takes off his disguise as he drives the Volga to the appointed corner of Carlos' compound. He looks at his watch. reads: 9:15 as he slows the car to a crawl. 
JACK (to himself) Come on... come on... 
EXT. RAMIREZ'S HIDING PLACE - NEAR MANSION - NIGHT 
Ramirez watches as Jack cruises by. 
RAMIREZ Not till he's dead, Jack. Not till he's dead. 
INT. BLACK VOLGA - EAST BERLIN - NIGHT 
Jack sees that Ramirez is not going to show. 
JACK Shit. 
INT. KGB HEADQUARTERS - EAST BERLIN - NIGHT CLOSE ON MONITOR SCREEN 
A head shot of Ramirez in his latest blond, bearded disguise. Grainy and blurred at first, it's gradually being brought into sharp focus. 
PULL BACK to reveal a GROUP OF MEN closely watching the screen of an impressive, state-of-the-art computer. We recognize only one of them. Andrei. At the computer's sophisticated keyboard -- manipulating the images on the screen -- are TWO TECHNICIANS in white overalls. Right behind them stands the Head KGB Officer from Moscow and his Aide. 
HEAD KGB OFFICER (orders the technicians) [Now Carlos.] 
ON SCREEN 
It bisects, to allow a picture of the real Jackal (the splitting image of Ramirez) to appear on the right half of the screen. 
BACK TO SCENE 
The Head KGB Officer puts on his glasses and takes a closer look at the monitor. 
HEAD KGB OFFICER [The beard and moustache.] 
HEAD KGB OFFICER (sarcastic) Don't even think about it. It would deprive the KGB of the pleasure of interrogating you. 
ON CARLOS 
Surprisingly, he seems quite relieved. 
CARLOS KGB? I thought... 
BACK TO SCENE 
HEAD KGB OFFICER What? That we were your new friends... The CIA... Jack Shaw... 
CARLOS Jack Shaw...? 
HEAD KGB OFFICER Stop playing games. And it's no use looking behind me... Your associates can no longer be of assistance. Not to you, not to anyone... 
CARLOS (angry) Comrade, you'd getter have an explanation -- 
HEAD KGB OFFICER You've got it all wrong, Illich. It's you who has all the explaining to do... Now get dressed! (to the blonde) You too, Fraulein. 
CARLOS My pants... 
The Head KGB Officer motions to Andrei, who throws Carlos his pants -- but not before checking to make sure there's no weapon in them. He then hands the blonde -- who finally hides her bazooms behind a sheet -- her clothes. 
CARLOS (continuing; getting dressed) That's what was going on in Libya. The CIA... The DST... They're trying to set me up and you're falling for it, you idiot! 
HEAD KGB OFFICER Enough. We tailed you to your meeting. We have the pictures of you with Shaw. 
CARLOS That's impossible. I've been here all night. (points to the blonde) Ask her. (to the blonde) Tell him. 
ON BLONDE 
She's putting stockings on a pair of legs that could distract even the most committed KGB. 
BLONDE (in a voice matching her looks) It's true. All night... 
HEAD KGB OFFICER (unimpressed) We know about your women... Now hurry up, both of you! 
ON IVAN AND VLADIMIR 
With Kalashnikovs still trained on Carlos, they seem unable to resist stealing glances at the blonde. 
CARLOS (to Head KGB Officer) I'll prove it to you. You'll be pleading for my forgiveness. Let's just go. I want to be interrogated. I demand to be interrogated. 
He seems truly eager to leave with them now, as if confident he can prove his case. Dressed, with the exception of a jacket, he casually grabs one which lies on a nearby chair. 
HEAD KGB OFFICER WAIT! 
Too late. The Scorpion machine-pistol is already out, spouting deadly accurate fire. He kills the Head KGB Officer first, then... 
ON KGB 
They drop like flies, their bullets hitting everything but him. 
ON BLONDE 
Hysterical, she screams her healthy lungs out. 
INT. HALLWAY - MANSION 
Suddenly there's the sound of APPROACHING STEPS. The KGB are down the corridor, rushing to the bedroom, led by the Aide. 
ON CARLOS 
He doesn't hesitate. Firing a few rounds at them, he sprints toward the window and literally flies through its shattering glass. 
EXT. MANSION - TREES - NIGHT 
Ramirez lies in some bushes about fifty yards from the house, dressed in the black jeans and T-shirt. He hears the gunfire from the mansion. 
RAMIREZ What the fuck? 
EXT. MANSION COURTYARD 
It's a dark night, and only a few dim lights illuminate the rather large back yard. 
ON CARLOS 
Landing in a bed of flowers, he rolls, and is quickly on his feet with the machine-pistol in hand. 
ON TWO ARMED KGB 
Securing the courtyard, they rush to the spot where, apparently, they'd seen him land. Carlos, however, is no longer there. 
Maura is there with Ramirez. He is in mid-conversation with her. We don't know how long she's been there. He opens his eyes. 
MAURA Is it over? 
RAMIREZ No. 
She crosses to him and gently takes his hand in hers. 
RAMIREZ You have to make a new life for yourself and the children. 
MAURA No. 
RAMIREZ Maura, anytime I start a car I'll wonder if this is the one that explodes. I couldn't bear the thought of you and the children being in that danger. He'll want me and everyone I've ever loved to be dead. Trust me... I know how he thinks because it's the way I think now too. I am so... sorry. I am so sorry... 
Maura looks at him imploring him with her eyes. 
MAURA I won't leave you. 
RAMIREZ Maura, when my father was put into prison he told my mother to take me and leave and start a new life. That's what you've got to do. 
MAURA You're not in prison and I'm not your mother and I won't leave you. I will not let him do this to us. Not him... not the CIA... not anyone. 
RAMIREZ He'll come after me. 
MAURA Get me a gun and teach me to shoot and he'll have to deal with both of us. This animal will not destroy my family. Please... come home. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. RAMIREZ HOME - VIRGINIA - DAY 
We hear a phone ring and it is picked up. 
MAURA (O.S.; THRU PHONE) Hello... 
We hear the voice of a friend of hers named GRACE. 
GRACE (O.S.; THRU PHONE) Hi... listen, do you and Annibal want to come over with the kids for a barbeque this afternoon? 
MAURA (O.S.; THRU PHONE) Uh sure, I think... but could I call you back later? We're just about to go to church. Annibal and the kids are already in the car. 
GRACE (O.S.; THRU PHONE) Okay, call me when you get back. 
MAURA (O.S.; THRU PHONE) Great. Talk to you later. Bye bye. 
We hear the phone hang up. We hear the sound of a door opening and closing that leads into the garage from the house. We hear the sound of a car door opening. And then the key turning in an ignition. And then the door is blown off the garage as we see the Ramirez family car burst into an inferno and blaze away inside the garage in a fiery blast which would kill one and all instantly. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. CEMETERY - DAY 
The cemetery is set up for a funeral. There are various Navy officers and their families in the chairs. At the back of it all stands Jack wearing sunglasses, his face a mask into which it is impossible to read any emotion of any kind. There are four graves and four coffins, two adult-sized and two small ones. Admiral Crawford addresses the mourners. 
CRAWFORD How does one even begin to comprehend a tragedy like this. A highly respected Naval officer returns from six months of hazardous duty. He has escaped the danger we all come to know in the service of our country. He is about to go to church with his beloved family and in an instant... they are no more. They are with God. Our minds cannot comprehend such tragedy... only an undying faith in the Almighty a faith that says even though we cannot see it, there is a plan. That and the knowledge that as in life, so for eternity are they together... 
ANGLE ON JACK 
He whispers to himself as he takes off his sunglasses. 
JACK Now you're free. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. ST. MARTIN - DAY 
It is a beautiful island community with clusters of villas overlooking a magnificent coastline. A postal truck winds its way towards one of the houses. 
The POSTMAN gets out of his truck and crosses to the door of the house. He knocks on the door. The door opens... it is Ramirez... or Carlos... we don't know which. He wears shorts and a shirt. 
POSTMAN Mister Mendoza? 
MENDOZA Yes. 
POSTMAN Special delivery letter for you sir. 
The Postman hands the man an envelope. He signs for it and opens the envelope. It is a newspaper clipping... 
ANGLE ON THE NEWSPAPER CLIPPING 
The headline is: NAVAL OFFICER AND FAMILY KILLED IN FIERY CRASH. There is a handwritten note attached. It says, "Rest in Peace." 
POSTMAN Not bad news I hope. 
MENDOZA Someone... died. 
