L'avventura (The Adventure) 
script by Michelangelo Antonioni Elio Bartolini Tonino Guerra 
translated by Louis Brigante 
It is the afternoon of a summer's day. Anna, a twenty-five-year-old brunette, comes out from the entrance of a stately building and walks along a pathway that leads up to a dirt road. She is in a great hurry and becomes a little annoyed and surprised at seeing her father, a meticulously dressed and elderly gentleman, standing near the curb busily talking to his chauffeur in front of a black British car. 
ANNA So, there you are... I've been upstairs looking all over for you... 
There is a moment of silence during which Anna's father deliberately ignores her presence. She stares at him intently, trying to determine his mood and wondering how she is going to tell him what she has to say before she leaves. Finally, he turns around and faces her. 
FATHER Oh, I thought you were already on the high seas. 
Anna is barely able to control her temper, but realizing that the discussion is about to take the usual sarcastic turn, she immediately checks herself. 
ANNA No, not yet, Dad. 
Her father fixes her with a long ironic look. Conscious of his daughter's haste, he is apparently trying his best to detain her. 
FATHER Isn't it fashionable any more to put on a sailor's cap with the name of the yacht? 
ANNA No, Dad, it isn't. 
There is another moment of silence. Meanwhile, a car has pulled up on the other side of the road. It is Claudia, a twenty-four-year-old blonde and a friend of Anna's. Both she and the driver get out of the car and remain discreetly in the background, waiting for the conversation to end. Anna's father resumes speaking, after a cursory nod to Claudia who, in turn, responds with a polite but half-hearted smile. 
FATHER And how long will you be away? 
ANNA Four or five days. 
FATHER (resignedly) Oh, very well. I'll just spend the weekend alone by myself and take a little rest. I should be used to it by now. 
Anna glares at him furiously but still manages to restrain herself. 
ANNA Used to what? 
FATHER To the fact of my retirement, not only as a diplomat but also as a father. 
ANNA (protestingly and with a deep sense of compassion) But how could you say such a thing? 
FATHER Because it's true. After thirty years -- not having ever spoken the truth to anyone, I should at least allow myself to do so with my own daughter. 
ANNA And have you any other truths to tell me? 
FATHER You already know what they are. 
ANNA You mean Sandro, don't you?  Well, I beg of you, please, spare me that. Goodbye, Dad. 
She kisses him on the cheek but the father remains unmoved. It is obvious that he still has something else he wants to say to her. In fact, after gazing upon his daughter with a certain amount of pity, he finally does say it. 
FATHER That type will never marry you, my child. 
Anna has a difficult time restraining herself but manages somehow to keep calm as she answers. 
ANNA Up until now, Dad, I've been the one who hasn't wanted to marry him. 
SANDRO But your friend is waiting downstairs. 
ANNA She'll wait. 
Anna turns around and presses herself up against him with such a violent passion that Sandro is somewhat dismayed. But only for an instant. Soon they are feverishly kissing each other, and it is almost with a sense of sheer animal pleasure that Sandro abandons himself. 
Meanwhile, left alone, Claudia is pacing back and forth outside in front of the building. She is bored and obviously tired of waiting. Then, as she is about to cross over to the other side of the street, she sees Sandro and Anna coming out of the doorway. The expression on Anna's face hasn't changed -- she appears sad and gloomy. But Claudia doesn't take note of it; she is too busy fuming over Anna's lack of consideration, eager to let them both understand that she is sick and tired of waiting around. 
As Sandro opens the window of the car, which is pointed towards Milan, he says to Claudia: 
SANDRO I have a feeling that you're not used to being alone. 
CLAUDIA (glancing first at Sandro and then at Anna) That seems to apply to you also... 
Meanwhile, the driver has taken Anna's suitcase out of the black car and puts it into Sandro's. Claudia picks up her own suitcase and is about to do the same but Sandro intervenes and takes it from her. 
SANDRO Don't be so humble. 
CLAUDIA How should I be ... arrogant? 
SANDRO But of course... arrogant, haughty... Hasn't Anna ever told you? 
While this exchange was going on, Anna has already climbed into Sandro's car. Sandro follows and takes his place at the wheel; Claudia gets in alongside him. The car takes off at high speed. 
Heading south along a state highway, Sandro's car is traveling at high speed over a straight open road. It is twilight and as the evening shadows begin to fall, the surrounding countryside is bathed in an aura of mystery. 
Inside the car Anna, Claudia and Sandro sit in complete silence. Anna is deeply absorbed in her own thoughts. Claudia is looking out of the window, enthralled by the dark beauty of the landscape. Another car draws up alongside of Sandro's and is about to pass him. But Sandro steps on the accelerator and pulls ahead with a tremendous burst of speed. The other car lags behind and then turns off at a crossroad. However, Sandro makes no attempt to slow down. In fact, spurred on by what has now become a definitely hostile atmosphere, he drives even faster. 
As Sandro suddenly switches on the headlights, the violent glare that polarizes the roadside cuts off Claudia's view. She turns to Sandro with a look of disappointment 
CLAUDIA It was lovelier before. 
To please her, Sandro turns the headlights off and once again the countryside is covered by a veil of thick but romantic shadows. 
SANDRO Like this? 
Now Claudia again peers out at the landscape -- but only for an instant. Sandro abruptly turns the headlights on again, revealing a sharp curve in the road up ahead, only about a hundred yards away. He quickly shifts into lower gear, and the car swerves slightly. The sudden shift from fourth to third gear causes the motor to emit a sound that resembles a cry. The car races swiftly towards the curve, getting closer and closer. But at such high speed it appears impossible the car will be able to make the turn. Further up ahead, where the curve fades, there is a stone wall that runs along the side of the road. At this point, even Anna is attentive, her eyes wide open. Both she and Claudia are petrified and terror-stricken as the curve and the wall loom closer and closer. Fifty yards, forty, ten. All of a sudden, the headlights illuminate a large gap in the wall about three or four yards away, just on the other side of a small ditch that separates the road from the wall itself. There seems to be no other choice. With a frightening leap -- and going well over fifty miles an hour -- the car barely makes it over the ditch and right through the opening in the wall. The car comes to a sudden halt, but skids along on the muddy ground of an empty lot until it finally stops near the door of a small farmhouse in front of an old man. He is seated on a bench and has been observing the entire scene without budging an inch. 
There is a brief pause -- silence. Then Sandro comes out of the car followed by Claudia and Anna. Claudia is visibly shaken. She leans up against the building for support, as though in search of something solid and dependable. She is also unnerved by the feeling that she is responsible for what has just happened. 
CLAUDIA It's all my fault! 
But instead of reproaching her, Sandro turns to the old man and excuses himself for having broken into his property. Imperturbably, the old man looks up at him and says: 
OLD MAN And who do you think made that hole over there? 
Even before he has a chance to be surprised at the old man's remark, Sandro becomes aware that Anna is laughing. It is not the hysterical laugh that normally might be expected after such a close call. It is, instead a pure and simple laugh, almost a happy one, and leaves both Sandro and Claudia plainly baffled. 
CLAUDIA There's nothing much to laugh at. 
SANDRO And that's what I say, too. We could have all been killed. 
Anna looks at them as she continues to laugh. 
ANNA I'm sorry ... but I can't help laughing... 
Once in the water, Anna starts swimming towards the island. The sailor at the helm slows the boat even more so as to keep it within Anna's range. Raimondo, meanwhile, has gotten his skin-diving equipment ready; around his waist he is tightening a belt to which a long knife is attached. The yacht continues to slow down. Sandro now dives into the water and starts swimming towards Anna. Claudia and Giulia are removing their clothes and they too get ready to go into the water. But Claudia is afraid to dive in while the boat is still in motion, so she turns to the sailor and shouts: 
CLAUDIA Stop ... stop the boat! 
The motor is turned off and the yacht soon comes to a halt. A sailor places a ladder over the side of the boat. Claudia goes down the ladder, easing herself into the water. She moves away from the side of the yacht by swimming backwards. Giulia follows her down the ladder but stops on the last rung. 
GIULIA How's the water? 
Sandro looks up and, pointing to the rocks at the highest part of the island, answers her. 
SANDRO Let's see you dive from the top of those rocks, Giulia. That would be really sensational.  Come on, Giulia ... your life is much too circumscribed. 
GIULIA What has everybody got against me this morning? 
From inside the cabin, a feminine voice is heard shouting: 
PATRIZIA Raimondo! 
Solicitously, Raimondo goes over to the door of the cabin, from which Patrizia emerges wrapped in a filmy nightgown. She is a woman of great elegance, somewhere in her thirties. 
PATRIZIA Why have we stopped? 
RAIMONDO (kissing her hand) Lady Patrizia! 
Then, holding her by the hand, Raimondo leads her towards the prow, where Corrado greets her and likewise kisses her hand. 
CORRADO Aren't you going in for a swim, Patrizia? 
PATRIZIA What makes you think I would even dream of such a thing? Raimondo, why don't you go in for a dip? 
She turns around to look at Raimondo and becomes somewhat startled to see him all rigged out in his diving equipment, complete with mask, spear-gun, etc. 
PATRIZIA Raimondo... Do you enjoy fishing underwater? 
RAIMONDO I detest it. But, after all, what can you do... It's the latest...and I try my best to adapt myself. 
He dives in. As soon as he hits the water, he starts shivering and exclaims: 
RAIMONDO Who ever said that man was originally a creature of the sea! 
Then, lowering the mask over his face, he begins to submerge. On deck, Patrizia peers out over the sea and covering her eyes to shade them from the sun, remarks: 
PATRIZIA I have never understood the islands. With all that water around them, poor things ... 
Out on the water, Sandro and Anna are almost at a standstill, keeping themselves afloat with only the slightest movement of their arms. Sandro is laughing and joking as though all this purely physical enjoyment of sun and water has freed him of all other cares. Anna tries to emulate him but is not entirely successful. Every now and then, her face becomes clouded with that same worried expression. 
ANNA When do you have to go back? 
SANDRO I don't know... It depends on Ettore... He's now in the process of negotiating for a contract here in Sicily... 
ANNA Then how come you're not with him? 
SANDRO What a question... Because I want to be with you, naturally. I hope he doesn't close the deal so he'll leave me alone at least for a few days... Isn't this water wonderful! 
He is lying on his back in the water, with his eyes closed, his face to the sun, cradled in the gentle movement of the waves. Anna looks at him, then after a moment of silence, she says: 
PATRIZIA What do you want, Raimondo? Do you want me? A few years ago, maybe... but now... And, then, at this hour of the day! 
Coming down the steps that lead into the cabin, Claudia overhears the end of the conversation, and decides to withdraw. But Patrizia sees her and calls her back. 
PATRIZIA Come, Claudia, do come in... There's no romance going on here. 
Claudia enters. Raimondo continues to stare at Patrizia, particularly at her legs. Patrizia becomes aware that Raimondo is staring at her, and with a condescending gesture, she lifts her skirt a little higher to make him see better. 
PATRIZIA There, have you seen enough now? Are you satisfied? 
Raimondo nods yes. Claudia is amused by their behavior but also a little surprised. 
Patrizia calmly resumes her game and Raimondo again begins to stare at her. This time, at her breasts. And again Patrizia becomes conscious of the fact that he is staring at her. She assumes a bored attitude and looks up at the ceiling in a gesture of quiet forbearance. Raimondo reaches out with his hand and gently caresses Patrizia's breast. Claudia looks on in amazement. Raimondo withdraws his hand. 
PATRIZIA (regretfully) Now, tell the truth, aren't you a bit disappointed?... But I already told you... 
RAIMONDO If women's breasts were colored, yours would be blue... 
Patrizia laughs at Raimondo's remark and looks at him sympathetically. Then she turns to Claudia. 
PATRIZIA Tell me, Claudia, what do you think of Raimondo? 
CLAUDIA I would say he's pretty depraved. 
PATRIZIA Oh no; quite the contrary. He's really just a child. 
RAIMONDO Patrizia, don't start in again... I would rather be called depraved. Unless you happen to love children. 
PATRIZIA You know, I don't love anybody. 
RAIMONDO (angrily) I know, dammit, I know! (turning to Claudia) And just think -- if there ever was a woman so right, so perfectly cut out for all kinds of dissipations, degradations, infidelities... of.. . of... of debaucheries, it's her. Well, anyway, she's faithful. Faithful out of laziness... of unwillingness. 
Raimondo has such a disgruntled look on his face that Patrizia laughs. 
PATRIZIA He amuses me. I don't know of anything more amusing. Outside of this jigsaw puzzle. Don't you find it so, Claudia? 
CLAUDIA One would have to be in love with somebody to know that. 
PATRIZIA Have you ever been in love? 
CLAUDIA Not really... It's suffocating in here... Shall we go out? 
Claudia leaves the cabin and goes up to the deck. Patrizia returns to her game, and Raimondo continues to stare at her. 
Along a narrow strip of beach on the island of Lisca Bianca, Sandro, Anna, Corrado and Giulia are waiting for Claudia to come ashore. There are some patches of vegetation growing here and there, but by and large the island is one huge rock with rugged cliffs which descend perpendicularly to the water. Jutting promontories give the place a sense of raw, primitive beauty. Seeing Anna and Sandro climbing a short distance up along the rocks to find a comfortable place where they can lie down and stretch themselves, Corrado remarks: 
CORRADO If any of you get into your bathing suits again, you can be sure we won't be seeing one another for the rest of the year. I just can't stand seeing anybody in the city after having seen them naked on the beach. 
The yacht finally has arrived and the gangplank is laid out between the boat and the shore. Claudia descends and as she wades ashore she stops, bends over to dip her hand in the water, and with a tone of voice resembling that of a mother speaking to its newborn child, she pretends she is speaking with someone or something in the water. 
CLAUDIA Oh, how sweet... What a dear little darling! 
They all turn around to look at her, wondering to whom or what she is referring. 
GIULIA Who are you talking to? 
SANDRO I know we are. But as the years go by, we become even worse. Isn't that so, Corrado? 
CORRADO I hope so. 
Breaking the nervous tension that has spread itself throughout the group, a seaman appears with a small basket of frozen peaches brought from the yacht. Claudia runs to the basket, picks up a peach and quickly bites into it. 
CLAUDIA How wonderful! 
CORRADO That's Patrizia's way of letting us know she's with us. 
Claudia takes another peach from the basket and gives it to Corrado. 
CLAUDIA I think you're very sweet, Corrado. 
CORRADO More so than the shark? 
CLAUDIA There's no comparison. 
CORRADO Then why don't we go up and see the ruins? 
Anna and Sandro have left the group and are ensconced further up among the rocks, on a grassy slope overlooking the beach. 
ANNA Sandro... A month is too long a time. I have become used to being without you. 
SANDRO You'll get over it soon. It's the usual anxiety. 
ANNA A little more so this time. 
SANDRO So, it will just take you a little longer to get over it. 
ANNA (angrily) But I think we should talk about it. Or are you fully convinced that we too won't understand each other? 
SANDRO There will be plenty of time to talk about it later.  We'll  get married  soon.  That way we'll have more time... 
ANNA In this case, getting married means nothing. Aren't we already the same as being married? And Corrado and Giulia -- aren't they already the same as being married? 
SANDRO But why rattle your brains by arguing and talking... Believe me, Anna, words never help at all. They only serve to confuse. I love you, Anna. Isn't I that enough? 
ANNA No. It's not enough... I told you before that I would like to get away for a while and be alone. 
SANDRO But you just said that a month was too... 
ANNA (interrupting) I mean, to stay away longer -- two months... a year... three years... Yes, I know, it sounds absurd. And I feel awful. The very idea of losing you makes me want to die... And yet... I... I just don't have the same feeling for you any more. 
SANDRO And what about yesterday... at my house... didn't you have any feeling for me, even then? 
ANNA (angrily) There you go... Must you always spoil everything! 
She turns and walks away in a rage. Sandro breathes a deep sigh, as though the scene had exhausted him, then stretches himself on the ground, his face turned skyward, his eyes shut tight. 
The sky over the island of Lisca Bianca is completely filled with clouds. It is early afternoon, the atmosphere has darkened, and occasional sounds of thunder are heard in the distance. 
Sandro is asleep with his arms folded under his head. Further below, Claudia, Corrado and Giulia are also taking a nap. Gradually, however, with the sound of thunder, they become aroused. 
GIULIA Looks like the weather is changing. 
Though no less concerned over Anna's disappearance than any of the others, Corrado attempts to lighten the tension by feigning a calm and sensible attitude. Taking note of the stone hut before him, he observes it carefully and remarks: 
CORRADO It's really a fact -- there's nothing new under the sun. Now, look here. Look at this structure... a kind of natural shelter. Sandro, that's how you should design your houses. 
SANDRO Me?... I no longer have any interest in building... And, then, where can you find boulders of rock like this in Milan? 
Claudia comes up close to the hut and tries to peer through the tiny window but inside it is so dark that nothing can be seen. Suddenly, she finds a small piece of bread on the ledge of the window. She picks it up and starts examining it. Then, realizing the bread is still fairly fresh, exclaims: 
CLAUDIA Somebody must live here! 
CORRADO (after examining the bread himself) But Anna wouldn't be staying with the kind of people who live here. 
The discussion is suddenly interrupted by the arrival of one of the sailors who has come up from the shore. 
SAILOR We had better get started. The storm may break any minute now. 
CLAUDIA (angrily) What do you mean! What about Anna? 
SANDRO (to the seaman) Tell Lady Patrizia that we can't leave now. In fact, we'll have to make a tour around the island... 
SAILOR Wouldn't it be better if you told that to the Lady yourself. I can't assume the responsibility for keeping the boat here. There's no place to tie it up... And then, you know, it's got a flat bottom, and if the sea gets a little too rough... 
SANDRO (angrily) That doesn't make any difference! If we have to stay, we'll stay! 
Aboard the yacht, which is circling the island, Sandro, Patrizia, Raimondo and one of the sailors are peering out over the side, scrutinizing the banks and rocky slopes in hope of finding some trace of Anna. The jagged cliffs appear enormously tall and ominous, harboring tiny grottoes in which someone could easily hide. 
PATRIZIA Perhaps she wasn't feeling well... Maybe a cramp or something... 
SANDRO Anna is an excellent swimmer. Even with a cramp, she would have managed to reach shore somehow. 
PATRIZIA But you have to  consider all possibilities, Sandro. 
Incensed by her remark, which he considers to be absurd, Sandro moves away from Patrizia and goes towards the stern of the boat where he notices Corrado signaling to them from a remote section of the beach. 
CORRADO (calling out) There are some footprints around here... 
But he stops in the middle of the statement, and throws up his arms to indicate that the discovery is really of little significance. So he proceeds to climb back up along the pathway from which he descended, and the yacht continues on its way. 
SANDRO (calling from the stern, excitedly) Patrizia! 
Both Patrizia and Raimondo come rushing over to the stern and look towards where Sandro is pointing at something dark and obscure afloat on the water up ahead. 
RAIMONDO (to the sailor) Mario...Steer the boat that way. 
The yacht heads in the direction of the black object in the water, but as they come up close, they realize it is nothing more than some wooden piece of furniture. The turn has taken the boat slightly away from Lisca Bianca and they now find themselves closer to the little island of Basiluzzo. 
SAILOR Shall I turn back? 
SANDRO No. Now that we're here, let's have a look around Basiluzzo. (then turning to Patrizia) When we were swimming, she swam out in that direction. 
SAILOR It won't be easy to find a place to go ashore. 
The first shadows of evening begin to fall over the island of Lisca Bianca. The sky is now even gloomier, streaked with flashes of lightning. Rumbling sounds of thunder are heard in the distance. The entire group is once again reunited on the beach, and the impending storm has heightened their fears and anxiety. They are cold, restless, and exhausted, but profoundly moved and shaken by the reality of Anna's strange disappearance. 
SANDRO Let's try to be practical about this. The best thing to do is for all of you to go to the closest island that has a police station, or something, and report the disappearance. I'll remain here... because... well, I don't know, but it seems to me that something may turn up. Anyway, I just don't feel like leaving. 
OLD MAN (scratching his head) It must have been around four or five... 
CORRADO In the afternoon? 
OLD MAN No... in the morning. Why? What's happened? 
SANDRO Nothing... nothing at all! 
CLAUDIA But why don't you tell him? (then turning to the old man) A girl who was with us has disappeared. 
OLD MAN What do you mean... disappeared?  Was she drowned? 
CLAUDIA No, she didn't drown... She just disappeared, and nobody knows where. 
SANDRO And I suppose it's my fault... Why don't you tell him that too. That's what you believe, isn't it? 
CLAUDIA Rather than being so occupied with my thoughts, you would have been better off trying to understand what Anna was thinking. 
OLD MAN Have you searched in back of the house to see if she might have fallen off that cliff? Last month that's what happened to one of my sheep... I looked all over for it all day long and it wasn't until late at night that I heard it bleating... It had been there the whole day... and was almost dead. 
Claudia suddenly jumps up and runs out of the hut and into the dark, calling out desperately. 
CLAUDIA Anna! . . . Anna! 
But her cries are lost in the sound of the storm. Drenched by the rain, her shoes full of mud, her dress soaked, she stops, as Corrado, who had followed after her, grabs hold of her arm and leads her back to the hut. 
CORRADO Come, Claudia...come back inside. 
It is early morning inside the hut, and the flame of the kerosene lamp has dwindled down to a tiny, flickering light. Claudia awakens with a bewildered look upon her face, wondering where she is and how she comes to be there. She notices Corrado dozing on an empty box in a corner of the room, then realizing that Sandro and the old man are no longer there, she gets up and goes out the door. 
Outside, everything is covered by a thick haze, which is gradually beginning to lift. Sandro, who is standing a short distance away from the hut, hears Claudia approaching and turns around to greet her. 
SANDRO Are you feeling better? 
CLAUDIA (nodding yes) I'm sorry about last night. Please forgive me. 
SANDRO You're very fond of Anna, aren't you? 
CLAUDIA Yes, very much so. 
SANDRO Has she ever spoken to you about me? CLAUDIA Occasionally, but always with affection. 
SANDRO And yet, she seemed to feel that our love for her -- mine, yours, even her father's, in a certain sense -- weren't enough for her, or didn't mean much to her. 
CLAUDIA I know. I keep asking myself what I could have done to prevent all this from happening. 
There is a pause, then suddenly they both hear the sound of a motor growing louder and louder. They look out over the shore but the haze is so heavy that it is impossible for them to determine the source. Then, seeing the old man coming up the path, Sandro impulsively runs towards him and seizes him by the collar. 
SANDRO Whose boat is that? 
OLD MAN (astonished) What boat? 
SANDRO Just a moment ago... didn't you hear the sound of a motor? 
OLD MAN At this time of the year there are so many boats... 
All of a sudden, Claudia breaks out into tears. Patrizia doesn't say a word. She just lets Claudia cry, knowing it will do her good. Sandro comes over and as soon as Claudia sees him there, she stops crying, and avoids looking up at him. 
SANDRO Listen, Patrizia... The Marshal says there's a current that passes by here and ends up at another island... I don't know which... He wants to send one of his men over to have a look... One never knows... Do you mind if I ask Raimondo to go with him? 
PATRIZIA I don't see why I should mind. 
CLAUDIA (to Sandro) I think that you might go and have a look yourself. 
SANDRO Yes, maybe that is better. 
He turns and starts heading down towards the beach. 
PATRIZIA (to Claudia) What amazes me, is Sandro. He seems so calm. 
CLAUDIA (rising) Calm?... He doesn't seem so to me... He was awake all night. 
One of the frogmen emerges with an ancient vase in his hand, evidently found in the depths below. Raimondo, who has just arrived with a thermos of hot coffee, puts it down and goes over to the frogman to fetch the vase. 
RAIMONDO (to the frogman) What is it? 
FROGMAN An ancient vase. There's a buried city under here. It's full of this stuff. 
Raimondo takes the vase and shows it to Patrizia and Claudia. It is an extremely beautiful amphora, in terra cotta, with a figured design around it. Patrizia and Claudia momentarily drop their thoughts to examine it. Then Corrado, who had observed the scene, comes over, followed immediately by Giulia. 
PATRIZIA (ironically) Come on, Corrado, tell us what century it belongs to. 
Corrado smiles, then comes closer to examine it. Claudia also kneels down to look at it. A moment later she feels a presence at her side, and even without turning around she knows it is Sandro. Taking advantage of the discovery that was made, he purposely has returned to join the group in order to be near Claudia. They both now feel between them the warmth of that contact, and for a brief moment, succumb once again to that sudden sense of wonderment which they already had experienced at dawn. 
GIULIA Corrado, why don't you ask them to give it to us as a gift? 
CORRADO Really! So that you can stuff it with your geraniums. 
PATRIZIA (to Sandro) But aren't you supposed to be on your way? 
Claudia, stricken with dismay, immediately detaches herself from Sandro, who replies with a certain sense of embarrassment. 
SANDRO Yes... I'm going... I'm going now. 
A patrol boat is anchored off the cliff of a small island where the current running through the surrounding waters comes to an end. Sandro is leaning against the wall of a dilapidated building, which is constructed right on that part of the rock where the sea close by discharges all kinds of refuse. Four or five islanders are busy scouring through the accumulated rubbish. They are taciturn, poorly dressed people who every now and then come to blows over the possession of some article washed ashore by the waves. Sandro is watching them, feeling distraught and melancholy. One of the carabinieri who had accompanied him is walking up and down beside an elderly gentleman who is obviously one of the local gentry. 
SANDRO (to the carabiniere) It's already two hours... What are we going to do? 
CARABINIERE It takes about twenty to twenty-two hours for the current to reach here from Lisca Bianca. 
ELDERLY GENTLEMAN And sometimes even twenty-four... depending on the wind... 
CARABINIERE If the girl disappeared yesterday afternoon, we'll have to wait at least until three or four o'clock. 
Sandro looks at them without commenting, then turns and walks away towards the center of the village. The houses and shops around the square are very plain and shabby. Sandro spots a barber shop and, fingering his day-old beard, enters for a shave. 
Shortly thereafter, a clamor of voices is heard outside and Sandro comes dashing out of the shop. Seeing the islanders fighting and arguing about something drawn up from the sea, he runs over to find out what it is.  As he arrives on the scene, two policemen step out of the confusion dragging a large crate, which they carry over to the door of a nearby shack, amid the protests of the islanders who are still arguing and shouting among themselves. 
VOICES It belongs to me... We found it... 
GENTLEMAN Back... Stand back! 
MARSHAL Sir, if you have no objections, may we start the search? 
Anna's father turns around to look at the bloodhounds who are already sniffing the air for a scent and anxious to get on with the hunt. Then he throws a quick glance at his daughter's valise once more, and with an air of disgust and irritation, walks off in a huff, followed by Claudia. 
ATTENDANT (to the Marshal) Get everybody out of the way... 
MARSHAL Okay. I'll send them down to that part of the beach over there... 
After they all have left the area, the attendant leads the two bloodhounds over to Anna's valise, instructs them to pick up the scent, then takes them up to the very top of the island, where he subsequently unties them from his leash and sets them off. 
Claudia and Anna's father arrive on the beach where Patrizia, Giulia, Corrado, Raimondo and one of the sailors are seated on a pile of rocks. 
As the dogs begin running in different directions over the island, trying to track down the scent from Anna's valise, the entire group remains silent, awaiting the outcome of the search. Suddenly, the bloodhounds come racing down the slope, heading directly towards the beach where they are gathered, apparently hot on the trail of some familiar scent. To everybody's amazement, the dogs stop in front of Claudia, jumping excitedly and barking at her as though they had found their prey. Claudia is nonplussed and almost petrified with fear. She turns around and sees the others all staring at her. But she cannot understand why they are looking at her that way nor why the dogs have stopped right in front of her. Then, as if struck by a sudden flash of memory, she touches her dress and cries out: 
CLAUDIA It's because of this... The dress... It's because of this dress. Anna gave it to me yesterday, right after the swim. 
Completely relieved, Claudia smiles and bends over to pet the dogs, as the attendant comes up to them and ties the leash back on to their necks. Then he leads them away and heads once again upthe slope towards the top of the island. Anna's father seems almost disillusioned by the negative results of the search. Corrado also feels dissatisfied, and addressing himself to the Marshal, says: 
CORRADO And what are we going to do now? 
MARSHAL We'll try again. 
PATRIZIA But is it really necessary? Those two beasts... How absurd! 
Meanwhile, the patrol boat has returned and is pulling ashore. Giulia is the first one to notice its arrival and she calls out to the others that Sandro is back. Then she goes over to where Anna's father is standing. 
GIULIA Sandro's here. 
ANNA'S FATHER (coldly) I don't know him. 
GIULIA It seems to me that at a moment like this... 
ANNA'S FATHER I don't want to know him. 
By this time, Sandro has come ashore, followed by the carabiniere, and immediately goes up to Claudia. 
SANDRO Claudia, listen ... Claudia. 
But Claudia hardly looks at him, and seeing Corrado approaching, she moves away from Sandro. 
CORRADO (to Sandro) I didn't think you'd be back so early. 
CARABINIERE (interrupting) We didn't check the other islands, so... 
CORRADO And why didn't you go there? 
CARABINIERE (referring to Sandro) He wanted to come back. 
The sailors have unloaded the crate of cigarettes from the patrol boat and the Marshal is getting all the details from the carabiniere. 
MARSHAL Up until now those smugglers were operating only around the Palermo area. This will be a nice surprise for the Lieutenant in Milazzo... Call up headquarters. Bring them up to date and have them give you instructions on what to do with this crate. 
CORRADO So... the boat we saw yesterday afternoon might have also been that of these smugglers. Could it be possible, then, that Anna...? 
MARSHAL (evading Corrado's question and pursuing his own thoughts) I wonder where they could have unloaded the stuff ... Maybe right here at Lisca. 
Raimondo goes aboard the yacht and returns with Claudia's valise. He consigns it to one of the carabinieri who, in turn, takes it aboard the patrol boat. Claudia follows him aboard. The Marshal comes out of the radio room, steps ashore, then joins Sandro and Anna's father on the motorboat, while Patrizia, Giulia, Corrado and Raimondo go aboard the yacht. 
In the seaport town of Milazzo, on the Sicilian mainland, Sandro and Anna's father are seated in an office at police headquarters.  The sailors picked up on a charge of carrying contraband are being questioned by the police Lieutenant. 
SAILOR No, sir, Lieutenant, we weren't even able to drop anchor once ... the sea was too rough. 
The Lieutenant motions for the sailor to come up to the desk, then points to a sheet of paper in front of him. 
LIEUTENANT Okay. Just sign here. (turning to a guard standing at the door) Have the next one come in. He's the last, isn't he? 
Another sailor enters and timidly approaches the Lieutenant's desk. He is rather young, and his face is completely bronzed by the sun. 
LIEUTENANT They tell me you have a lot of trouble at home. Is that right? 
YOUNG SAILOR Yes, sir. My sister is sick... and my father, too. 
LIEUTENANT So that's why you've turned to smuggling, eh? You need the money. Now, I can help you. I can see that you get some assistance from the government. But first there's a little formality we've got to take care of. Just a few questions and then we can all go to lunch... Your friend tells me you dropped anchor three times... 
The sailor starts, as though taken by surprise, then quickly answers. 
YOUNG SAILOR Yes, sir. Three times. 
LIEUTENANT (to Sandro and Anna's father) Now, we're getting somewhere! They're beginning to contradict each other. (then, facing the sailor again) Now look here, your friend just swore to me that you weren't able to do any fishing at all because the sea was too rough... And what about the other boat? 
YOUNG SAILOR What other boat? 
LIEUTENANT Now look, my men saw it and they also saw you men throwing those crates overboard. What have you got to say about that? 
YOUNG SAILOR (stuttering) I ... I ... wasn't feeling well ... I.. I was sleeping... I don't know anything ... I ... I'm all mixed up and ... 
Sandro is unable to control himself any longer. He gets up, walks over to the sailor and yells in his face. 
SANDRO But what are you saying?... What are you saying? 
The Lieutenant motions to Sandro to be quiet, then calmly rises from his desk and continues. 
LIEUTENANT Now look here, I'm ready to forget the whole thing: the cigarettes, the contraband -- everything. If you would only tell me... you or your friends... whether the girl was aboard your boat and how far she went. 
They all remain silent. The Lieutenant motions to the guard who then leads the sailors out of the office. 
LIEUTENANT (to Anna's father) Just as I thought. Even if you caught them in the act, they'd deny it. They always deny everything. And then, in this case, if they were to admit having had the girl aboard, it would mean they'd be admitting to the charge of carrying contraband. Oh, it's easy to say: talk! But if they did talk, the following morning you'd find them cold dead in front of their doorstep. 
ANNA'S FATHER I think it would be worth my while to take a run over to Palermo. The Chief of Police there is a very good friend of mine and I'm sure he'll do whatever he can. I feel we're wasting our time here... Excuse me, Lieutenant. I hope we see each other again under better circumstances. And thanks for everything. 
Bidding goodbye to the Lieutenant, Anna's father leaves, without looking at Sandro. A moment later, Sandro folds the newspaper he was reading, tucks it under his arm, and starts heading towards the door. 
LIEUTENANT At any rate, we'll continue investigating. I know that headquarters has sent out an alarm to all areas... 
SANDRO (showing the newspaper to the Lieutenant) Tell me, Lieutenant, do you happen to know this F.Z. who wrote this article here? 
The Lieutenant takes a look at the paper which carries a two-column story headed: DISAPPEARANCE OF A ROMAN TOURIST AT LISCA BIANCA. 
LIEUTENANT That's Francesco Zuria. He's the news correspondent. 
SANDRO Where can we locate him? Don't you think that by offering a reward to anyone who can give us some information... 
In the meantime, they have arrived at a shady alcove where, seated in various wicker lounge chairs, are Patrizia, Giulia and a young man dressed in simple, casual clothes. The first one to notice Claudia and to greet her with warm cordiality, is Giulia. 
GIULIA Well, finally! We were beginning to get worried about you, too. 
Claudia plunks herself down in one of the lounge chairs next to Patrizia. The young man rises and bows slightly. 
PATRIZIA But where did you finally end up? 
CLAUDIA It was futile. We went all over. 
There is a moment of silence; the thought of Anna returns to weigh on the group. Claudia pours herself an orange drink from a pitcher on the table beside her. 
CLAUDIA (referring to Anna) But why does she do these things? (she takes a sip from her glass, then rises) I can't stand it any more. 
She takes a few steps, looks around at the villa, and at the other end of the alcove sees Corrado and Ettore saying goodbye to a pair of elderly gentlemen. 
GIULIA (to Corrado and Ettore) But how can you carry on a discussion in this heat? 
CORRADO When one approaches fifty, my dear, he is affected only by the cold. 
ETTORE (noticing Claudia) And who is this? 
PATRIZIA This is Claudia, Anna's friend... (to Claudia) You've never met my husband, have you? 
Ettore immediately recalls Claudia's name from a previous conversation that was apparently held before she arrived. 
ETTORE By the way, have you phoned him? 
CORRADO You mean Sandro? I told you already. He's not in. At least he's not at the hotel. 
ETTORE Now look what has to go and happen... At a time when I'll be needing him. How can we discuss things when we lack dates and figures?... 
PATRIZIA But didn't he say he was coming here... 
Now, with all this talk about Sandro, the sense of relaxation Claudia had felt upon her arrival, has changed into a feeling of anxiety that becomes more and more noticeable. 
ETTORE Well, what are you all waiting for? Send a car out to get him. He can't be more than a couple of hundred miles away... 
GIULIA To me, the fact that hasn't shown up is a good sign. Do you want to bet that he's found Anna? 
ETTORE Maybe. But do you know that forty thousand persons a year disappear in Italy without leaving a single trace behind them. Forty thousand! Almost as much as the entire population of San Siro... Raimondo, will you go and see if you can locate Sandro? 
RAIMONDO Okay. 
A gong announcing lunch resounds throughout the garden. 
PATRIZIA First let the poor thing have something to eat. 
ETTORE It wouldn't really do you any harm to skip a meal. 
PRINCESS I've never met this Sandro. What kind of a person is he?... He couldn't have done her in himself, by any chance? 
ETTORE (breaking out into a loud laugh) Sandro?... Oh, sure... I can see Sandro calling Anna over to him and saying: Listen, Anna, I intend to get rid of you, but since it's so painful and complicated... and besides, I don't happen to have a gun on me... why don't you do me a favor and get rid of yourself on your own... 
There is a moment of complete, dead silence, during which the same disturbing thought flashes across the minds of all those who are present like a sudden revelation. 
GIRL I came down here to buy a foulard... Suddenly I realized that little by little, directly behind me, I was being followed by so many men, and more and more of them kept coming. 
CHIEF OF POLICE Well, I should think so... Dressed like that. 
GIRL But I have always gone around like this, everywhere in the world. Nothing like this has ever happened to me before. 
Zuria turns to Sandro and clears his throat. Outside, the crowd becomes very noisy. 
ZURIA (to the girl) How old are you? 
GIRL Nineteen. My name is Gloria Perkins. I'm married and a writer by profession. I write in a trance, almost always in contact with people who are dead. Tolstoi, for example, or Shakespeare. But the movies also interest me. 
Zuria nods to Sandro as if to say: now watch this. 
ZURIA How do you find the men of Messina? Are you shocked by their warm display of friendliness? 
GIRL No, why should I be shocked? We're in Italy, not Finland. 
ZURIA And how were you received in Palermo? 
The girl turns around and looks down at Zuria with contempt, but she manages to remain calm. 
GIRL In Palermo I was with my husband. Now I'm going to Capri to write an article for the Tourist Office. 
Zuria clears his throat again and whispers to Sandro. 
ZURIA She did exactly the same thing in Palermo. 
CHIEF OF POLICE (to the girl) If you want to go back to your hotel... we're ready to escort you. 
GIRL Oh, yes, thank you... 
Photographer snaps a flash photo. The girl immediately strikes a pose. Other flashes follow. The clerks ask for her autograph. One of the policemen raises the shutter; the girl comes forward smiling, and is greeted with a certain kind of roar from the crowd. The group leaves the shop. Sandro and Zuria also come out. The girl, ushered out by the policemen, climbs into the Alfa Romeo. The guard holds the crowd back. There are more camera flashes. More smiles from the pretty stranger. Finally the car pulls out, followed by the police wagon. Sandro and Zuria watch the car disappear through the crowd, which starts to disperse. The din, however, is still enormous, due to the unsnarling of the traffic jam. 
ZURIA Do you like her? 
Sandro shrugs his shoulders, somewhat surprised by the journalist's question. 
ZURIA She costs a hundred thousand lire. 
SANDRO You're kidding! 
ZURIA No, I'm not. Why do you think she does all this? It's one of the many ways she can put herself on display. When you bait the trap, the mouse will snap. To tell you the truth,  if it wasn't for the fact that one hundred thousand lire represents my whole month's salary, well... But you had something you wanted to ask me? 
Sandro is still looking at the journalist with a sense of incredulity, almost as if he felt Zuria's conversation was something out of this world. But he is brought back to reality by Zuria's last remark, which is made as the journalist starts walking at a very hurried pace. 
SANDRO I read one of your articles regarding the disappearance of a girl. I'm that girl's fianc. 
ZURIA Oh... I'm sorry I have to rush but I've got to write a story about this thing that just happened... Tell me exactly how it all turned out. 
SANDRO (impatiently) Now listen, if I had any information, I wouldn't have come here to ask you. But I see that you, too, lack any information ... 
The journalist casts a sidewards glance at Sandro. He is a bitter and sarcastic man, one who is completely absorbed with his own little problems and his own daily routine. But for this very reason he is quite capable of taking any kind of insult, either big or small. 
ZURIA As a matter of fact, I've already had several phone calls on that article. One said they had seen the missing girl in an automobile somewhere in Rome. Another one said they saw her on the pier talking with some strange sailors... Could be she secretly left the island by boat... 
The attic is bright and spacious, with slanted roof, and two huge windows. It is filled with paintings, easels, canvases, brushes and oils. As soon as Giulia enters the studio, she moves away from Claudia and attaches herself to the young Prince who is setting up one of his paintings on an easel beside one of the windows. Claudia looks around the room with a sense of indifference. Going over to the window, she looks out and sees a vast panorama of the countryside. 
Giulia looks at the painting with a certain amount of surprise. It is a picture of a nude woman; a shapely figure, slightly plump, in the manner of Renoir. 
GIULIA Claudia, come and see. It's a nude. 
Claudia is looking through the paintings that lean up against the wall face backwards. She turns one around: a nude woman. A second: another nude woman. A third: the same. 
CLAUDIA They're all nudes, if I'm not mistaken. 
GIULIA (to Goffredo) But why all nudes? 
GOFFREDO Because there is no landscape as beautiful as a woman. 
GIULIA And where do you find the models? 
GOFFREDO Oh, there are as many as one wants. 
GIULIA (turning to Claudia) I thought the model was something obsolete nowadays. Didn't you, Claudia? 
Claudia goes back to look out the window: a group of flying birds swoops down to land directly under the roof. The birds settle themselves in a little nest directly in front of the window. Claudia bends over to get a better look and is actually able to see the little nest, as she hears behind her the exchange of remarks between Giulia and the young Prince. 
GOFFREDO It's strange how anxious women are to display themselves. It's almost a natural inclination. 
GIULIA But how could they pose like that? I couldn't. 
GOFFREDO (with a grave, youthful sensuality) Why don't you try? 
GIULIA Me... Goffredo, you're mad! (turning to Claudia) He's mad. 
CLAUDIA Not really. 
Claudia moves away from the window, and continues to look at Giulia and Goffredo with a deep sense of amazement. Giulia is euphoric, kittenish and trembling with excitement. Goffredo is firm, resolute and serious. 
GIULIA Don't you ever paint men? 
GOFFREDO Answer me, why don't you try posing? I'll paint you a beautiful portrait. 
GIULIA But why me?... Ask Claudia, she's much more beautiful than me. 
GOFFREDO (insistent) But I want to paint you. You appeal to me more. 
GIULIA (timidly) I appeal to you more? 
Giulia glances over at Claudia, who is still preoccupied looking out of the window, then screws up her courage and boldly advances towards Goffredo, making her intentions clearly understood. Goffredo immediately responds to her invitation and draws himself close up against her. There is a moment of hesitation, then a kiss -- awkward but passionately violent. Giulia, on her part, is completely shameless. Claudia turns around exactly at that moment when the two of them are caught up in a feverish embrace. She looks at them, completely dumbfounded, then takes a few steps forward as though she doesn't believe her own eyes. 
CLAUDIA (almost unconsciously) Giulia! 
Giulia quickly turns around, her face is flushed with excitement but also with an expression that seems somewhat triumphant. Before anybody has a chance to say anything, she heads towards the door, swings it open and stands firmly on the threshold,  obviously intent on telling Claudia to leave. In fact, Claudia doesn't wait to be told but immediately walks out into the hallway. 
GIULIA And tell Corrado, too, that I'm here... if he wants me. You can also tell him that my tiny little heart is beating like mad, and that at this moment, it's the only thing that interests me. Is that clear? 
CLAUDIA It couldn't be any clearer. 
Giulia takes a few steps backward into the room, and seeing Claudia still there looking at her strangely, exclaims: 
The woman, anxious to learn about any new bit of gossip, becomes immediately interested. 
LADY AMALIA Disappeared? Who is she? ... Where? When? 
HUSBAND And that makes four. Anybody else?... 
Sandro, a little sick and tired of the whole matter, and wanting to put an end to what has by now become farcical, intervenes. 
SANDRO You have to be precise. Did this girl enter your store or didn't she? 
WIFE (shouting) Yes! 
SANDRO (ignoring her) Was she blonde or brunette? 
HUSBAND (calmly) Brunette. 
WIFE (contradicting him) Blonde. 
SANDRO How was she dressed? 
HUSBAND I don't quite remember. Seems to me she wore a black dress. 
WIFE (intervening sarcastically) He doesn't look at dresses, he looks at what's under them. 
The husband turns around and looks at his wife menacingly. 
SANDRO Pardon me, but has anyone else been here asking about this girl? 
HUSBAND No ... I don't think so. 
SANDRO Thanks. 
Sandro leaves the store. He walks a few steps along the pavement, then sits down at a small outside table of a nearby caf. He looks out over the square: a small Sicilian town, quiet and still in the hot afternoon sun. Every now and then, he glances up at the country road that winds around the town, as though he were waiting for someone. 
A few moments later, in fact, a car comes into view and slows down as it reaches the square. The driver looks out for a place in which to park. Sandro rises to his feet. The car comes to a stop a few steps away from him. The driver rushes out of the car to open the door for the person inside: it is Claudia. Sandro immediately goes over to meet her, looking at her somewhat amazed. Not only does he see her more elegantly dressed than he has ever seen her before, wearing a smartly tailored polka-dot suit, but also as an entirely new person, as someone whose beauty he has discovered for the first time. For a moment they continue staring at each other, without even bothering to say hello. 
CLAUDIA Any news? 
SANDRO Yes... but it's all so conflicting... However, there is some slight indication... 
Claudia drops her gaze, relieved by even that slight note of hope. Then she looks up at him again, as though inspired by another sudden thought: something which must have lingered in her mind from one of the Princess' humorous quips. Then, the owner of the general store appears on the scene. After having dealt his nagging wife a crushing verbal blow, he turns to Sandro, but not without first glancing at Claudia, for whom it soon becomes evident he has really come out on the street. 
HUSBAND Listen... In the paper they forgot to say that as soon as the girl left here she took the bus to Noto. The bus leaves from the square, over there. I saw her clearly... I came to the door to see her off... She was a beautiful girl. Lovely pair of legs! 
While speaking, he continues to keep an eye on Claudia with the look of one who thinks his gaze is loaded with irresistible masculinity. All of a sudden, he pulls out a package of Nazionali cigarettes from his pocket and offers one to Claudia. She looks at him dumbfounded, then automatically declines with a shake of her head. In turn, he lights up a cigarette, inhaling the smoke voluptuously. Meanwhile, his wife has come upon the scene and looks at him suspiciously. Then, with a sad, wistful voice, she turns to Claudia. 
WIFE You're from Rome, aren't you? I knew right away because I'm from Viterbo... He was a soldier there and so... (indicating her husband, and then quickly continuing) I don't like it very much, here. 
HUSBAND (interrupting) Then why don't you go back? 
His wife turns and looks at him hatefully, exactly in the same manner he had looked at her. 
CLAUDIA How long have you been married? 
WIFE Three months. 
The woman pauses for a few seconds and looks at Claudia as though she had detected some hidden motive behind the question. And when she resumes speaking, what she has to say is in sharp contrast to the way she says it. They are words of protest but spoken condescendingly, almost sweetly, yet leaving no doubt as to their meaning. 
MIDWIFE What are you trying to insinuate, young lady? Why should I have seen her again? I don't do anything that's illegitimate. 
CLAUDIA Oh, no... What are you saying? I'm not insinuating anything... 
MIDWIFE And furthermore, my dear young lady... because you really are a dear, you know ...if the story of that girl is merely a pretext, let us say, to get in touch with her, then I feel it is my duty to warn her. These things are very, very dangerous, especially in a neighborhood like this where people occupy themselves more with other people's affairs than their own. 
Seeing Claudia being put into an uncomfortable position, Sandro, who had been following the midwife's discussion with a cagey attitude, intervenes. 
SANDRO Then you should also be able to tell me where a young girl might stay in Noto; are there any hotels or rooming houses? 
MIDWIFE There's the Trinacria Hotel... or the Regina, near the municipal building. As for rooming houses, I don't know... 
SANDRO Thank you. 
MIDWIFE Don't mention it... Pleased to be of service any time. 
Claudia starts moving hurriedly out of the courtyard, followed by Sandro. 
Sandro's car is speeding across a harsh, sun-baked landscape, bypassing long lines of peasants returning from the fields: the women seated on donkeys, the men on foot. The more fortunate among them have horse drawn carts. 
Claudia is looking at the surrounding countryside and spies an iron bridge that is all rusty and obviously no longer in use. 
CLAUDIA Look at that bridge! Who knows why they even bothered to make it... 
The car continues onward, passing an abandoned factory, then a railroad station, also abandoned, its tracks covered by weeds, the ticket office haphazardly boarded up with old wooden planks. 
CLAUDIA Look at that: a factory... a station... and look at those tracks, all full of weeds... But why? 
Sandro shrugs his shoulders and continues driving without saying a word. Up ahead a small town comes into view, with monotonous rows of newly constructed homes lined up along the side of the road. The car enters the town and stops. Sandro gets out and goes over to a fountain nearby, but the fountain is dry. Somewhat surprised, he begins to look around. And only then do Sandro and Claudia become aware that the silence around them is an unnatural one, that the doors and the windows of all the houses in the town are tightly shut. There is no sign of life anywhere, except for the weeds growing between the cracks in the walls, invading and suffocating everything in sight. 
Claudia gets out of the car, joins Sandro, and together they start walking along the streets. The sun beats furiously down upon the crumbling houses, upon the church, upon the useless monument in the square on which a dedication is inscribed: "To The Agricultural Worker." 
Sandro looks around in absolute silence. Claudia is also  silent, somewhat dismayed. Instinctively, she presses up close to Sandro who leads her to a shady spot where the ground is overgrown with weeds. 
Sandro and Claudia are lying next to each other on the grass. Sandro appears calm but is actually looking at Claudia as though he were about to embrace her with his eyes. Then he takes her hand. Claudia offers no resistance; in fact, she entwines her fingers around his, almost with a sense of desperation. Sandro tries to kiss her. She makes a feeble attempt to resist, looks around, and sees the deserted town, the barren fields, the crumbling, sun-baked walls. She turns and looks at Sandro again, and now it is she who kisses him. When they break apart, they stretch themselves out upon the grass. Sandro kisses her violently, again and again and again... 
The early twilight shadows are beginning to fall. The sky is still clear but the sun is fading. There is a deep silence and the air is absolutely still. In a certain sense, Sandro's car, standing there in the middle of the deserted street, is the only thing alive in that desolate town. 
Huddled close to each other, Claudia and Sandro are asleep on the grass. Lazily, Claudia awakens, and then Sandro also opens his eyes. They are both somewhat disheveled. 
CLAUDIA (faintly audible) It's late... We should be going. 
Little by little, she leaves behind the drowsiness of her deep and peaceful sleep, purring languorously in a typically feminine fashion. Sandro smiles and gently embraces her. A moment later, Claudia releases herself from Sandro's arms, sits up and realizes that the countryside and the town itself are as black and motionless as death. A cold shiver runs down her back and she quickly comes to her feet. 
CLAUDIA Let's get out of here, fast... This is not a town, it's a cemetery. 
SANDRO Who knows why they all left... 
Claudia starts to move but her legs are still numb from her sound sleep and she hobbles along comically, laughing at the same time. Sandro also gets up and finds that his legs are cramped. Hobbling and laughing himself, he follows Claudia towards the car. But the car, baked by the sun, is like an oven. They both make boisterous and playful exclamations, then another embrace, another kiss. Finally, they climb into the car and drive off with a loud roar that echoes up and down the abandoned town. 
Sandro and Claudia arrive in the town of Noto and pull up on the opposite side of the street from the Trinacria Hotel. As they climb out of the car, Claudia turns to Sandro: 
CLAUDIA Sandro ... maybe it's best that you go in alone. 
Sandro doesn't answer but merely shrugs his shoulders. Then he takes Claudia by the arm and gently leads her towards the stairway. He has a worried expression on his face and remains absolutely silent as he starts climbing the stairs. As they walk through the corridor, Claudia looks at him anxiously, wondering what is wrong. 
CLAUDIA Sandro ...What's the matter? 
SANDRO Nothing. 
He opens the door to his room and ushers Claudia in. As soon as he enters, he takes off his jacket and throws it on a chair. Then he walks over to the window and closes the shutters. Then, without saying a word, he turns to Claudia, grabs her in his arms and squeezes her. Claudia smiles, and playfully yells "Ouch!" Then he goes to kiss her but Claudia tries to resist but doesn't succeed. This little struggle stimulates Sandro and is enough to make him forget all reserve. He drags Claudia on to the bed and forces her to lie down. 
CLAUDIA No, Sandro... Please... 
SANDRO Why? 
CLAUDIA No reason why... 
But Sandro hugs her and kisses her again. This time, Claudia lets herself be kissed. 
CLAUDIA What's the matter with you? 
Sandro only responds by kissing her again. Then Claudia yields. Sandro is angry and excited, as though he wanted to take his resentment out on Claudia. 
CLAUDIA Sandro, wait a moment, just one moment... You seem like an entirely different person ... 
SANDRO And aren't you pleased?... That way you'll have a new kind of adventure. 
Wounded, Claudia pushes him away with all her might, and exclaims: 
CLAUDIA What are you saying? 
SANDRO I was only joking, really... Can't I make a joke? And now you've got to tell me why you don't want to. 
CLAUDIA Oh, Sandro... I want everything you do. But... 
She stops short, then turns aside and reaches out to touch his jacket on the chair, looking into the pockets, not with curiosity but with a sense of love. Sandro grabs her by the shoulders and forces her to turn around. 
SANDRO But what? 
Claudia remains silent, then gets up from the bed, and in a subdued tone of voice, says: 
CLAUDIA Did the hotel manager speak to you about that place nearby? 
SANDRO Yes, she started to but I didn't feel like staying to listen to what she had to say. If we had to listen to everybody... 
CLAUDIA No, Sandro... We should go. Besides, we haven't been in touch with anybody. Not even with Anna's father. We should have at least sent a wire or telephoned... let's be fair, he must be feeling awfully lonely. 
SANDRO I don't doubt it. But at a time like this we're the least suitable persons to be with him. And as far as telephoning him... Who knows where he is? 
There is a moment of silence, then Claudia starts heading towards the door. 
CLAUDIA Come, let's go. Pack your things, and I'll get mine ready too. 
It is evening. Sandro's car is pulling into the town of Taormina on its way to the San Domenico. It comes to a small square and passes by a group of men and women seated on the steps of an ancient ruin. They are dressed in evening clothes and are laughing and giggling. The car turns into the street of the San Domenico and stops in front of the hotel. A porter immediately comes out and opens the door. Claudia and Sandro get out and head towards the small courtyard that leads into the foyer. 
The lobby is full of activity and alive with people dressed in formal attire. Claudia is clearly intrigued by everything she sees: the surroundings, the people, etc. Sandro approaches the reception desk as Claudia walks slightly ahead, anxious to see what is going on. The sound of music is heard coming from one of the halls at the other end of the lobby. There is obviously a party underway: further on, through a glass partition, couples are seen dancing. Suddenly, Claudia stops. Directly up ahead, she notices Patrizia. As soon as she see Claudia, Patrizia comes to greet her, smiling. 
PATRIZIA Well, I'm looking for somebody else and who do I find but you. 
Then Sandro enters the adjoining room, where the clerk has in the meantime turned on all the lamps and performed all the other little duties. Sandro starts to undo his tie. Claudia remains standing in the middle of the room, listening to all of Sandro's movements in the other room. A knock is heard at the door of Sandro's room and Sandro is heard saying: 
SANDRO Come in. 
A few seconds later, the porter also enters Claudia's room with her baggage. She opens the valise and starts taking out her nightgown and other necessities. Her gestures are slow and imprecise because fatigue has overcome her. Several moments pass, and Sandro appears at the door in his pajamas. 
CLAUDIA Sandro, listen... Try not to get yourself too involved tomorrow. 
SANDRO Aren't you going to change? 
CLAUDIA You said you wanted to quit working for Ettore. 
Sandro shrugs his shoulders without, apparently, giving much thought to Claudia's statement. He goes into the bathroom saying: 
SANDRO Sure, that's what I said... 
The sound of the shower running is heard. 
SANDRO Wow, it's ice cold... 
Claudia goes up to the door adjoining the two rooms and stops at the doorway of the bathroom that is situated between the two rooms. 
CLAUDIA Sandro, I'm not coming down. 
SANDRO Why? 
CLAUDIA I'm too sleepy. 
SANDRO Sleep is something one must learn to overcome. I learned how to do it when I was a child. I never slept. And I had friends who even slept less than I did. The one who went to bed first, paid a penalty. And we really didn't do anything. After seeing a movie, we'd go to a cafe and discuss things for a while... then we'd sit down on a bench somewhere... listen to some drunkard... watch them putting up posters or manifestoes...or look at the sheep passing by... or go for a stroll around the market place... Or else we'd go and wake up some girl in the neighborhood by standing in front of her window and calling out her name... 
Claudia has been listening to Sandro with her head leaning against the door jamb, her eyes closed. As soon as Sandro stops, she goes back to her bed and starts undressing. Sandro comes out of the bathroom, wearing a bathrobe, and going over to Claudia, says in an affectionate tone: 
SANDRO You're that sleepy, eh? What time do expect to get up tomorrow? 
CLAUDIA Late, very late. 
Claudia disappears into her bathroom, and Sandro returns to his room. After a while, his voice is heard. 
SANDRO Did you know that when I was a boy I wanted to be a diplomat? Can you imagine that! Me, a diplomat? It's strange but I never thought I'd be rich. I saw myself living in a rooming house, full of geniuses... 
Claudia has slipped into her nightgown and returned to her room. Sandro is heard clearing his throat, and then continuing. 
SANDRO Instead, I have two apartments, one in Rome and one in Milan. As far as genius goes, it's a habit I've never formed. What do you think of that? 
Sandro reappears at the doorway, already half dressed. Claudia slides into bed and stretches herself out under the covers. 
CLAUDIA I look at things differently... But maybe it's best we talk about it some other time. Do you mind turning off that light over there? 
Sandro turns out the lamp on the table while Claudia closes the main switch. The room is enveloped in darkness. Sandro approaches the bed and bends over Claudia to kiss her. 
SANDRO Good night, my love. 
CLAUDIA Good night. Tell me that you love me. 
SANDRO I love you. 
