BABEL 
Written by 
Guillermo Arriaga 
(April 9, 2005) 
1   EXT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- MORNING 
Day breaks. Hassan (50) arrives at a solitary house made of adobe, in the southern deserts of Morocco, carrying a satchel and a large bundle wrapped in cloth. 
He walks past a corral made out of branches, where several goats bleat, and knocks on the front door. 
2   EXT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 
Abdullah (40), opens. 
HASSAN (In Arabic) Good morning Abdullah... I brought you this... 
He holds up the bundle. 
3   INT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER 
Abdullah's family is inside the house. There is a room, a small table and a simple kitchen. Yasira (38) is roasting some goat meat assisted by Yamil (16) and Zora (17), her daughters. 
Abdullah and his sons, Yussef (13) and Ahmed (14), are sitting on the floor around the small table, looking at a well- conserved .270 caliber Winchester 60 rifle. 
HASSAN (To Abdullah) It's almost new. 
He takes out several boxes of cartridges from his satchel. 
HASSAN (CONT'D) Three hundred cartridges... 
He opens a box and shows them one of the golden bullets. 
HASSAN (CONT'D) The hunter who gave it to me said you can hit up to three kilometers away. 
ABDULLAH How much do you want for everything? 
HASSAN One thousand dirhams. 
ABDULLAH One thousand dirhams? I'll give you one thousand and a goat. 
Abdullah and Hassan exchange a look and Hassan smiles. 
4   EXT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Hassan and Abdullah's family are behind the house. Hassan stands with the rifle in front of a rock some twenty yards away and he turns toward Abdullah. 
HASSAN With this rifle, your sons will be able to kill plenty of jackals. 
He aims at the rock and pulls the trigger without holding the rifle properly. It is clear that he doesn't know how to fire a weapon, and the shot cracks loudly. The rifle kicks and hits him roughly in the shoulder. The bullet flies far wide of the rock. The women laugh nervously. 
Rubbing his shoulder, Hassan turns to Abdullah. 
HASSAN (CONT'D) Let one of your sons shoot. 
Abdullah looks at his boys and points at the younger one. 
ABDULLAH Let Yussef shoot. 
When Hassan is about to hand Yussef the rifle, Ahmed cuts him off, upset. 
AHMED I want to shoot first. 
Father and son exchange an angry glance. Hassan, without realizing it, turns and gives the rifle to Ahmed. The boy grabs the gun: it is heavier than he thought. 
HASSAN Look, load it like this. 
Hassan opens the chamber, inserts the bullet and then closes it. Once it is loaded, he points at the safety. 
HASSAN (CONT'D) This is the safety. Push it in when you're ready. 
Ahmed nods. Unsure of himself, he raises the rifle and, almost without aiming, fires. The shot kicks up dust far from the rock. His sisters laugh. 
HASSAN (CONT'D) If he doesn't hit the jackals, at least he'll scare the shit out of them. 
Ahmed lowers the rifle. His father grabs it and gives it to Yussef enthusiastically. 
ABDULLAH Your turn. 
Yussef grabs the rifle and loads it confidently. He lifts the rifle with ease and takes his time aiming. He seems innately skilled at the maneuver. He shoots and the bullet hits just below the rock. 
Abdullah celebrates the shot and mockingly turns to Hassan. 
ABDULLAH (CONT'D) Now this kid shoots a hell of a lot better than you. 
5   EXT. GOAT CORRAL -- LATER 
Yussef takes one of the goats out, ties and ropes it and gives it to Hassan. Abdullah supervises. Yasira approaches and gives Abdullah a bag. 
YASIRA Your lunch. 
Abdullah takes it and turns to his sons. 
ABDULLAH You better kill at least three jackals. 
HASSAN And make sure no one sees you with the rifle, hide it if you see someone approach you. 
Ahmed nods.   Abdullah and Hassan go on their way. 
6   EXT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- LATER 
Yasira and Yamil are far from the house, cleaning some goatskins stretched out on some branches. 
AHMED Yeah, but that's not three kilometers. 
Ahmed remains pensive and suddenly starts climbing to the top of the hill. Once at the top, he looks around for a moment and then calls his brother. 
AHMED (CONT'D) Yussef, come here. 
Yussef climbs the slope. Ahmed signals a road that in the distance cuts across the great desert plain, and points out a traffic sign that indicates a curve ahead. 
AHMED (CONT'D) I bet you the bullet can't hit that far away. 
Ahmed loads the rifle and aims at the sign.    He fires and nothing. 
AHMED (CONT'D) These fucking bullets aren't any good. 
YUSSEF You're not aiming right. 
Yussef points at a yellow car driving along the road. 
YUSSEF (CONT'D) What'll you give me if I hit that car? 
AHMED I'll shoot. 
Ahmed reloads. The empty cartridge falls to the ground. He fires again - the car keeps going. Yussef asks for the rifle. 
AHMED (CONT'D) You see?    Nothing happens. 
YUSSEF Let me shoot. 
He also drops the used cartridge on the ground, reloads and shoots the traffic sign. He fires and nothing. 
AHMED I told you.    Hassan's a liar. 
A bus approaches.    Ahmed points at it. 
AHMED (CONT'D) Shoot at that one... 
Yussef loads the rifle parsimoniously, shuts the chamber, raises the weapon, aims and fires. 
The bus drives on.    Ahmed turns to his brother. 
AHMED (CONT'D) See: nothing. 
The bus drives on another three hundred yards and suddenly stops in the middle of the road. 
13   INT. T.V. ROOM, L.A. HOUSE -- NIGHT 
Amelia (54), a maternal, Mexican woman with a pleasant face, is playing Monopoly with Debbie (4) and Mike (5). They are both typically American kids. 
AMELIA (In Spanish) I won... 
MIKE No, I won. 
The phone rings and Amelia goes to answer it. 
AMELIA (In English) Yes... yes sir... yes sir, Mrs. Rachel told me...I'm very sorry. How is Mrs. Susan?... No sir, don't worry... 
Amelia turns to Mike. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) Your dad is calling. 
Mike runs to the phone and grabs it. 
MIKE Hi dad... dad, guess what? Today, at school, they brought some baby chickens...I held one in my hand. He was really little and he was all warm... (A beat) Dad, are you ok?...And Mariana wanted to take one home, but the teacher didn't let her... 
14   INT. CHILDREN'S ROOM, L.A. HOUSE -- NIGHT 
Amelia is putting Debbie and Mike to sleep.   They are both lying in bed. Amelia sits next to them. 
AMELIA (In Spanish) Did you brush your teeth? 
Mike shows her his teeth so she can see he did. 
MIKE Will you tell us a story? 
AMELIA One and then you're going to sleep. 
Both children nod. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) (Her entire story in Spanish) Once there was a hawk who wanted to fly higher than everyone else. He trained every day and hunted little birds so he could eat them and be strong. 
MIKE Pajaritos?     Little birds? 
AMELIA Of course, that's what hawks eat. So, one day the hawk flew so, so high that it crashed into an airplane. It fainted and started to fall. And when it was about to hit the ground, all the birds flew toward him and saved him. 
DEBBIE They saved him? 
AMELIA Yes, and when the hawk was healthy again he went to talk to the birds and said: I want to thank you for saving me, but I can't change and I'm going to keep hunting you. The little birds answered: we don't care that you hunt us, because that's who you are. But we will always save you, because that's who we are. 
The children are silent. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) (In English) Did you like it? 
DEBBIE No. 
Amelia moves to turn out the light. 
DEBBIE (CONT'D) Leave it on. 
Amelia stands still beside the switch. 
AMELIA Quedamos en que se iban a dormir con la luz apagada. 
DEBBIE But I'm scared. 
AMELIA No pasa nada. 
LUCIA (Both in Spanish) I can't Amelia. 
AMELIA Please, it's my son's wedding. I helped you out with that thing with your boyfriend. 
LUCIA I really can't. 
AMELIA Just for the day, Lucia.   I'll be back for them tonight. 
LUCIA And what do I tell Mrs. Black? 
AMELIA Tell her they're your nephews. 
Lucia looks down at the blonde-haired, blue-eyed children. 
LUCIA Yeah right, they look just like me...with this gringa look I have. 
21   INT. CHILDREN'S ROOM, L.A. HOUSE -- DAY 
Amelia is packing the children's clothes in a small suitcase. Debbie and Mike, curious, watch her. 
MIKE Are we going to see your house? 
AMELIA Yes, you're going to see my house. 
MIKE Is it far? 
AMELIA (In Spanish) Not very. 
22   EXT. LOS ANGELES HOUSE -- DAY 
A run-down '88 Ford Pinto parks in front of the house and honks its horn. The front door opens and Amelia walks out, carrying the small suitcase, with the two kids. 
Santiago (24), a young Mexican with light eyes. 
SANTIAGO (Both in Spanish) Good morning Aunt Amelia. 
AMELIA Good morning. 
Santiago, surprised, looks at the children. 
SANTIAGO Are they coming? 
AMELIA I couldn't find anyone to leave them with. Their parents aren't coming back today. 
SANTIAGO Why bring them, they're just going to make trouble. 
AMELIA They're good kids. 
SANTIAGO I know a woman who can take care of them. 
AMELIA Santiago, I have to take them. I can't leave them with just anybody. 
SANTIAGO What if you lose your job? 
AMELIA Come on, don't tempt the fates. 
Amelia opens the door for the children to get in. 
23   EXT. CASBAH TAMNOUGALT, MOROCCO-- DAY 
Richard (45), tall, thin, weathered, and Susan (38), good- looking, with an athletic body, visit the impressive Casbah with a group of American, French and English tourists. Most of them are old, with a few couples in their forties or fifties. 
Anwar (30), a man with a kind face, is the tour guide showing them around. 
ANWAR (In English, with an Arabic accent) The Berbers built these kasbahs. They made them like forts and here they would reside after finishing their caravans. 
Richard listens attentively.   Susan looks hot. 
RICHARD This place is beautiful, don't you think? 
SUSAN (not very enthusiastically) Yeah, yeah it's very pretty... 
Anwar walks toward one end of the aisles and calls the group. 
ANWAR Now, I'd like to show you the materials that were used to build the walls... 
The herd moves docile toward Anwar's voice. 
24   EXT. SMALL EATERY, MOROCCAN DESERT -- LATER 
The group of tourists spread about a small eatery with open air tables on a dusty terrace. A bus is parked behind them. 
At a table, on one end of the terrace with views to a cluster of mountains, Richard and Susan look through some menus. Richard seems at ease in this place. Susan appears to be bothered by the dust and otherness. 
A waiter brings a plate and some cutlery. 
WAITER (in broken English) You want to order? 
RICHARD I'll have a chicken cous-cous and a Coke, please. 
SUSAN What do you have that doesn't have fat in it? 
WAITER Everything is delicious. 
Susan reads the menu again. 
SUSAN I'll have the fried eggplant and a diet Coke. 
WAITER We don't have diet Coke. 
SUSAN Then a regular Coke. 
The waiter smiles and goes to place the order. Susan takes out a small bottle with antibacterial gel, cleans her hands and then starts wiping the plate and the cutlery thoroughly. 
Richard looks at the mountain range through a pair of binoculars. He spots a hawk flying over the plains. 
In an indoor volleyball court with bleachers, several Japanese girls play volleyball. They all compete intensely for the point. There is excitement, but everything occurs quietly. 
A player jumps and spikes the ball. Chieko (16), tall, beautiful, with strands of hair painted purple, volleys the ball back up. It reaches one of her teammates who sets up another to spike it. 
Chieko's team wins the point. The referee, instead of whistling, lifts up a red flag. 
The players congratulate each other silently, in sign language. The only sound we can here is the parents' clapping as they watch the game from the stands. 
Chieko's team serves. Again, the game is heated. A rival player spikes the ball, and it is barely out of bounds. However, the referee, with his red flag, calls the point. 
Chieko is upset and goes to argue with him. 
CHIEKO (In sign language) The ball was out. 
REFEREE (In sign language) No, it was good. 
Chieko gestures violently.   One of her teammates goes to calm her down. 
TEAMMATE Let it go. 
Chieko breaks loose and approaches the referee. 
CHIEKO That was out. 
REFEREE It was on the line. 
CHIEKO You're not just deaf, you're blind. 
REFEREE You're out. 
Chieko is furious.   She starts to make obscene gestures. 
CHIEKO You're an asshole. 
The coach walks onto the court. He holds her to calm her down and then takes her away. Despite Chieko's violent reaction, everything is still silent. From the bleachers, Yasujiro (47), Chieko's father, dressed in a nice suit with the tie undone, with a sad pride about him, disapproves of his daughter's actions. 
30   INT. LOCKER ROOM, VOLLEYBALL COURT -- DAY 
Chieko sits on a bench in her underwear. She looks aggravated and absorbed in her own thoughts. Her other teammates get dressed. Two of them walk past wrapped in towels, freshly showered, and stand in front of her. They talk to each other in sign language. 
TEAMMATE 1 You shouldn't have lost your temper. We lost the game. 
CHIEKO It wasn't my fault, it was the ref. 
TEAMMATE 2 If you hadn't been thrown out, we would've won the game. 
Chieko, angry, gets up and starts to rummage through her locker. Her teammate walks over and gets her attention. 
TEAMMATE 1 Why are you in a bad mood? 
Chieko doesn't answer.    Teammate 2 approaches. 
TEAMMATE 2 She's always in a bad mood because nobody's fucked her yet. 
She caps this with an obscene gesture that bothers Chieko. 
CHIEKO I'm gonna fuck your dad to get rid of my mood. 
Teammate 1 laughs, amused. Teammate 2 gives Chieko a scornful look. Chieko smiles sardonically. 
31   INT. YASUJIRO'S CAR -- DAY 
Yasujiro drives while Chieko looks at the swarming Tokyo streets. She is wearing a skirt revealing of her long volleyball legs. 
Her fathers speaks to her in sign language. 
YASUJIRO What do you want to eat? 
CHIEKO I said I'd meet my friends from the team at Eve's. 
YASUJIRO Weren't we going to have lunch together? 
CHIEKO Dad, I told you I was going to eat with them, but you never pay attention to me. 
Yasujiro shakes his head in disapproval. 
CHIEKO (CONT'D) My mother always paid attention to me. 
YASUJIRO Why do you want to fight? 
They don't say anything else.   The traffic is chaotic. 
YASUJIRO (CONT'D) I miss your mother too. 
Chieko just looks at him. 
YASUJIRO (CONT'D) I'm doing what I can, sweetie. 
They don't say anything else.   The traffic is chaos. 
32   EXT. STREET, TOKYO -- DAY 
Yasujiro parks his car and Chieko gets out. 
YASUJIRO (in sign language) Don't forget you have the dentist at four. 
Chieko looks annoyed, and blows her father a kiss goodbye. As she is about to get out of the car, Yasujiro grabs her arm. She turns to look at him. 
YASUJIRO (CONT'D) (In sign language) I love you very much. 
They exchange a glance.   She nods, closes the door and leaves. 
33   INT. EVE'S -- DAY 
Eve's is a restaurant full of t.v.'s, noise, video games. There is smoke, and people talking everywhere. Chieko moves through the crowd. A hostess intercepts her. 
ZORA (CONT'D) I asked you what's wrong. 
Ahmed, full of adrenaline, glances angrily at her. 
AHMED What do you care, whore? 
Yussef gets in the way. 
YUSSEF Don't talk to her like that. 
Yussef steps up to defend her, but Ahmed spins around and goes into the house. Yussef turns to Zora. 
YUSSEF (CONT'D) Something we ate make us sick so we came back. 
Without another word, Yussef also goes into the house. 
39   INT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- LATER 
Yussef and Ahmed are sitting on their mats, looking at each other, pale, scared and quiet. Yasira walks in to see them, followed by her daughters. She turns to Ahmed. 
YASIRA What are you doing here? 
Ahmed, livid, cannot answer. 
YUSSEF Something we ate gave us a stomach ache. 
Yasira stares harshly at Ahmed. 
YASIRA And is that why you're insulting your sister? 
Ahmed looks at Zora, then Yussef, and then is silent. 
YUSSEF We were feeling really ill. 
Yasira points toward the corral. 
YASIRA The goats are going to feel even worse if they don't eat. Take them out again. 
AHMED Our stomach really hurts. 
YASIRA Then start jerking the meat. 
Yasira walks out.    Yussef and Zora exchange a look. 
40   INT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Yussef and Ahmed are jerking a couple of young goats with very sharp knives. They set the thin strips on newspaper. 
They look nervous.    They talk in whispers. 
AHMED D'you think something happened? 
YUSSEF I don't know. 
AHMED People were screaming. 
They are silent for a long while. 
AHMED (CONT'D) It was your fault. 
Yussef stares at him in disbelief. 
YUSSEF It was both our faults. We both shot. (A beat) Swear to me you'll never say anything. 
Ahmed won't answer. Yussef looks around the room to make sure nobody is listening to them. 
YUSSEF (CONT'D) Swear.     Nobody, never. 
Ahmed remains pensive.    He sighs and answers. 
AHMED I swear.   Nobody. 
41   EXT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- EVENING 
The brothers are hanging the strips of meat on ropes to dry them in the sun. 
An old Valiant packed with seven men parks in front of the house and Abdullah gets out. He raises his hand to say goodbye. 
ABDULLAH Thank you, I'll see you tomorrow. 
The driver also raises his hand and then drives off.   Abdullah turns to Yussef. 
ABDULLAH (CONT'D) Tell your mother to prepare dinner. 
Abdullah turns towards the house. Yussef comes out running towards a little field below the house. Yasira is plowing with a manual plow. 
YUSSEF Mother, mother, father says he wants to have dinner now. 
42   INT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- EVENING 
Abdullah and his children sit at the small table while the women prepare the food. A column of smoke rises from the fire where they are roasting goat meat and toasting bread. 
Yamil, the youngest of the daughters, sets some bread on the table. Abdullah takes it, tears some off and starts to eat. He turns to Yussef. 
ABDULLAH Did you kill any jackals? 
YUSSEF We shot at them, but didn't hit them. 
ABDULLAH You have to kill them. If not they're going to eat all the goats. 
Yasira sets the strips of goat meat on the table. Abdullah serves himself some. His children wait until he's done to serve themselves. 
YASIRA Why are you home so late? 
Abdullah starts talking with his mouth full. 
DEBBIE I don't like Mexico. 
51   EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY -- DAY 
They drive down the highway and then turn onto a path. They drive down the path at high speed, lifting up clouds of dust. 
52   EXT. HAMLET "LOS LOBOS" -- DAY 
They arrive at a dusty hamlet in the middle of the desert; a few houses, no more than twenty, some adorned with multicolored paper. 
Several crates of soda are stacked up against a makeshift shed built out of yucca fronds. A group of musicians who play Norteña music are setting up their instruments. 
There are various pickup trucks and smuggled cars parked around the hamlet. The guests are wearing their best: fresh shirts, big buckles, almost new boots. 
Santiago parks. Amelia gets out first.     A group of people sees her and comes over to greet her. 
COMADRE 1 (All in Spanish) Hey, so you finally made it. 
Amelia smiles.   Her friends notices Mike and Debbie. 
COMADRE 1 (CONT'D) You brought them? 
Amelia nods. Luis (24), Amelia's son, a typical Norteño cowboy with long sideburns and moustache, his face tanned from days under the sun, wearing a pistachio-colored tuxedo with a cloth flower in the lapel, greets Amelia with a kiss. 
LUIS Hi mom, how're you doing? 
She looks him up and down. 
AMELIA Son, you look like Pedro Infante. 
COMADRE 1 More like Luis Miguel. 
AMELIA Where's the bride? 
LUIS She's not here yet. 
AMELIA What d'you mean she's not here yet? 
LUIS Well, she ain't here. 
Mike and Debbie, struck dumb by the language and the strangers, hide behind Amelia, who introduces them to Luis. 
AMELIA Look son, these are Mike and Debbie, the kids I take care of. 
Luis holds his hand out ceremoniously. 
LUIS Pleased to meet you Mike. 
Santiago calls out to some kids who are running around. 
SANTIAGO Psst.   Lucio, come here. 
Lucio (10), the oldest of the gang, approaches.   Santiago gestures toward the two American kids. 
SANTIAGO (CONT'D) These are Mike and Debbie. Keep an eye on them for me. 
Lucio gives them a scornful glance and calls them over half- heartedly. 
LUCIO Come with me. 
With her hand, Amelia signals to the kids that it's ok to go with him. Shyly, Debbie and Mike follow. 
53   INT. ROOM, HAMLET "LOS LOBOS" -- DAY 
Amelia is in a room with her two daughters standing in front of a peeling and broken mirror putting on her violet gown. One of her daughters helps her and pulls the zipper all the way up. 
DAUGHTER 1 (All in Spanish) Oh ma, I don't know how you did it but it zipped up perfectly. 
AMELIA And it's been 15 years since I last wore this dress. 
DAUGHTER 1 You haven't changed a bit, ma. 
AMELIA Working, dear, working, that's what keeps one young. 
The two sisters realize that the dress has a hole just below the seat, exchange looks and smile, which doesn't please Amelia. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) What are you guys laughing about? 
DAUGHTER 2 Nothing ma, nothing. 
Amelia looks at them suspiciously, turns around and leaves the room with her dress elegantly torn. 
54   EXT. DESERT ROAD, MOROCCO -- DAY 
The bus is in the middle of the road. 
Several of the tourists are hiding under their seats, frightened. The driver, still ducking, looks toward the mountains to try to piece together what happened. 
Richard holds Susan against his shoulder, blood gushing from her neck. Her eyes are open and staring at a fading world. 
Richard takes Susan from under her armpits and carefully lays her down on the aisle. Anwar runs over to help. 
RICHARD Take it easy honey, take it easy. 
Anwar takes his shirt off - left only in his undershirt - and puts it under Susan's neck. 
SUSAN (mumbling senselessly) I'm ok... I'm ok... 
Susan breathes in, and every time she does, blood flows from her wound. Richard turns toward the other passengers. 
RICHARD Is anybody a doctor? 
Nobody answers.   Richard starts to lose his cool. 
RICHARD (CONT'D) Please: a doctor. 
ANWAR Yes sir, this is my house. 
Richard tries to carry Susan, but she screams in pain. 
RICHARD Easy, darling, easy... 
He slips his hands under her and lifts her up. 
SUSAN Don't touch me there. 
Richard moves his hand, which is covered in blood. As he carries her, he turns into the aisle while Anwar and one of the passengers try to help him. 
65   EXT. HAMLET -- DAY 
Richard carries her into the house through a crowd of curious children. 
66   INT. ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Anwar leads Richard down the hallways amidst Susan's screams. 
67   EXT. PATIO, ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
They walk through a dusty patio and Anwar points at some stairs. Richard climbs them with difficulty and Anwar opens the door to a room. 
ANWAR Here... here... 
68   INT. ROOM, ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
An old woman (87), Anwar's grandmother, who has centuries of desert in her expression, lets them in and points at a rug on the floor. 
ANWAR'S GRANDMOTHER (In Arabic) Put her there... 
Richard understands and softly lays Susan on the rug. Susan looks around horrified: adobe walls, dirt floor: the epitome of the third world. 
RICHARD I need to call an ambulance and contact my embassy. 
ANWAR If you have the number of the embassy, I can go call. 
Obviously, Richard does not have it. 
RICHARD I need to make a phone call. 
ANWAR Of course, come with me. 
They get ready to leave and Susan starts imploring. 
SUSAN Don't leave me here alone... 
RICHARD Don't worry, I'll be right back. 
Susan looks desperate. To set Richard somewhat at ease, Anwar points at his Grandmother. 
ANWAR She can take care of her. 
Richard leans over Susan. 
RICHARD You're going to be ok. 
Anwar kneels down next to her, takes a cloth and improvises a tourniquet that he adjusts near her shoulder. He turns towards the grandmother. 
ANWAR (In Arabic) Hold and release the tourniquet every once in a while. 
The grandmother nods. She sees the swarm of kids looking into the place and she shoos them away. 
ANWAR'S GRANDMOTHER (In Arabic) Get out of here... out... 
The kids obey, except for one or two who take one last look before they go. Susan's terrified eyes watch Anwar and Richard leave the room. 
69   EXT. ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
The bus is still parked in front of the house. As soon as Richard walks out, the pensioners approach him. 
DOUGLAS How is your wife? 
RICHARD Bad. Very bad. 
Tom (51), a fat English passenger, faces him. 
TOM Get her outta there and let's go. 
RICHARD And where should I take her? 
TOM In Egypt, in a town like this, they slit thirty German tourists' throats. They might do the same to us. 
Anwar listens and intervenes. 
ANWAR No, not here. 
TOM (Aggressively) What do you know? We have to get out of here as soon as possible. 
Lilly (79), an old woman, approaches. 
LILLY It's very hot, sir, and the driver turned off the air conditioning. I'm feeling sick. 
RICHARD You can't leave us here. 
James (82), Lilly's husband, steps forward. 
JAMES What's the use in staying? 
RICHARD In case I need the bus. 
JAMES They can go drop us off and then come back for you. 
Douglas (75), a tall old man with good posture, interjects. 
Anwar is walking back when he is stopped by Mohammed, his brother, a fat man (32) with curly hair and a tanned face. 
MOHAMMED (the entire dialogue in Arabic) Why did you bring them here? 
Anwar doesn't pay attention to him and keeps walking toward the room. His brother catches up to him. 
MOHAMMED (CONT'D) You should have consulted with us. 
Anwar stops and looks at him fixedly. 
ANWAR She's hurt, we had to take care of her. 
MOHAMMED In town they're saying she was shot by terrorists. Do you know what they're going to do to us when they find out she's here? 
ANWAR Don't be paranoid and go help find the doctor. 
Anwar pays no more attention to him and carries the basin into the room. 
75   INT. ROOM, ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Susan is lying down. A small pool of blood has collected under her neck. She looks restless. She whispers weakly. 
SUSAN Get me out of here... please... 
RICHARD I'm going to as soon as I can. I've already called Rachel; she's going to tell the embassy. 
SUSAN I told you we shouldn't have come. 
Just then Anwar enters. The grandmother takes the basin and sets it in a corner. She gets some pieces of cloth and starts to soak them. 
RICHARD How long until the ambulance gets here? 
ANWAR About an hour and a half. It's coming from Alnif. 
RICHARD That much? Isn't there anyone here who could take her? 
Anwar shakes his head. 
RICHARD (CONT'D) We've got to get her out of here. There's no one to tend to her. 
ANWAR My brother already called a doctor, he's coming. 
Richard is going to say something, but holds back.   His despair and confusion are evident. 
ANWAR (CONT'D) Trust my grandmother; she knows a lot about remedies. 
The grandmother wrings out the rags and puts them on a table. She takes some herbs, a fistful of earth from the floor and she tosses them into the basin. She stirs it and pulls out a clump of mud which she lays out on one of the pieces of cloth. 
Susan looks horrified at the dirt. The grandmother leans over her and tries to clean the wound with the other moistened rags. Susan resists. 
ANWAR'S GRANDMOTHER (In Arabic) I have to clean you. 
ANWAR (To Susan) Miss, my grandmother is going to help you. 
The grandmother finishes cleaning her with the damp cloths and grabs the clump of mud. She tries to put it on the wound, but Susan flinches. 
SUSAN No, not that. 
ANWAR'S GRANDMOTHER (In Arabic) It will stop the bleeding. 
SUSAN No, no... not that... 
Richard intervenes. 
RICHARD (To Anwar) Let's wait for the doctor. 
76   EXT. HAMLET -- DAY 
Two old men walk through the streets. 
77   INT. ROOM, ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Mohammed walks into the room and calls him. 
MOHAMMED (In Arabic) The sheik and the moukadem are here. 
78   EXT. ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
The two men walk past the tourists and head inside without knocking or asking for permission. 
79   EXT. PATIO, ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Richard and Anwar have walked out into the patio to wait for them. The sheik approaches. 
SHEIK (In Arabic) Allah be with you. 
ANWAR (In Arabic) Allah be with you. 
He turns to Richard and speaks to him in very bad French. 
SHEIK (In bad French) I am Atallah the sheik and this is Walid, the moukadem. I'm very sorry about your wife. 
RICHARD I don't understand French. 
ANWAR He says he is very sorry about your wife. 
Richard thanks him with a nod. 
SHEIK (To Anwar, in Arabic) Tell him that I want to ask him some questions. 
ANWAR (To Richard) Can he ask you some questions? 
Richard nods.   The sheik continues in Arabic. 
SHEIK (In Arabic) Do you have any enemies in this country? 
84   INT. LOBBY, TOKYO APARTMENT BUILDING -- DAY 
Chieko enters the lobby. Beside the doorman are two men dressed in suits: Kenji (31) and Hamano (50). The janitor gestures at Chieko with his chin. The men walk over toward her and cut her off. 
HAMANO Are you Yasujiro Wataya's daughter? 
Chieko doesn't manage to read his lips. She is silent. The doorman notices the situation, walks out from behind his small desk and shouts at the men. 
DOORMAN She's deaf mute. Face her when you speak so she can read your lips. 
Kenji and Hamano are disconcerted. Hamano stands squarely in front of her and speaks slowly, emphasizing every word. 
HAMANO Are-you-Yasujiro-Wataya's-daughter? 
She nods. 
HAMANO (CONT'D) We-are-sargeants-Kenji-Mamiya-and- Hamano-Kanoo-of-the-Tokyo-police. We-need-to-find-your-father. 
She pulls out a pen and a piece of paper from her bag.   She scrawls a few lines and hands them over. 
Hamano reads it and turns his face toward hers. 
HAMANO (CONT'D) No, he didn't do anything wrong. We just want to talk to him. Do you know where he is? 
She shrugs her shoulders. Kenji gives her his card. Upon receiving it, Chieko turns to look at him. Their eyes meet and she looks down. She then looks up again, blushing. 
KENJI Tell him to call us. And don't be scared, we're not going to do anything bad to him. 
HAMANO Thank you. 
Chieko can't stop staring at Kenji. The two cops leave.    As soon as they do, Chieko heads toward the elevator. 
85   INT. CHIEKO'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Chieko walks into the apartment. It is a large apartment, elegantly furnished. Although decoration is scant, some hunting trophies stand out: a scimitar-horned Oryx, sheep, and others. There are also photographs of Yasujiro hunting. 
A wall is dedicated to family photos. Among them is a picture of Chieko as a little girl with her father and her mother. 
Chieko sees a note on the table at the entrance. She puts the policeman's card down and picks up a note from her father that says: "I waited until five and you didn't make it. I've got a meeting and I'll be back late. I left you some soup and some chicken for dinner. Kisses. Papa." 
86   INT. CHIEKO'S ROOM -- DAY 
Chieko sits in front of a mute T.V., channel surfing.   She stops at a fashion show, then some cartoons. 
Suddenly, on a news program, we see the photographs of Ahmed and Yussef. Chieko looks at them for a moment and then changes the channel. She is watching T.V. when a red bulb, set between a yellow bulb and a blue one, starts to light up insistently as the doorbell rings. 
Chieko notices and shuts off the T.V. 
87   INT. LIVING ROOM, CHIEKO'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Chieko opens the door and Mitsu walks in. They greet each other with a handshake where they end up touching their index fingers to each other's hearts. 
MITSU Are you ready? 
CHIEKO Yeah, I'm just going to get my bag. 
Chieko goes to get her bag. Mitsu sees the policeman's card on the entrance table and looks at it. Chieko comes back and Mitsu asks her about it in sign language. 
MITSU The cops came again? 
CHIEKO Yeah. They hadn't come in nine months. But these were different cops. 
MITSU Did they come to ask about your mothers' death? 
CHIEKO No, but they're probably going to ask my dad about the same things. 
MITSU They're just not convinced, are they? 
Chieko shakes her head, remains pensive and then smiles. 
CHIEKO Believe it or not, I liked one of the cops. 
Chieko puts Kenji's card in her purse. 
MITSU Did you put on some panties? 
Chieko smiles, lifts up her skirt and exposes her naked pubis. Mitsu lifts hers up as well and is also without panties. They laugh and leave the apartment. 
88   EXT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER 
Dawn. The desert is a rose plain softly lit by the sun's first rays. Yussef and Ahmed are digging a hole with their bare hands. Once they're finished, they clean up around the hole and mark it with three stones. 
89   EXT. HIGHWAY, DESERT -- MORNING 
Alarid (40), a federal cop, tall, in an impeccable uniform with numerous rank badges, stands on the highway examining the site of the shot with the old man who was driving. 
In the distance we can see a police checkpoint stopping some cars and, after checking them, letting them go. 
ALARID (To the old man, the entire dialogue in Arabic) Are you sure it was here? 
OLD MAN Sure. I drive down this road every day. The American tried to stop me right here. 
He stands more or less where Richard tried to stop him. 
OLD MAN (CONT'D) I was scared. He was covered in blood and I was coming from picking up my grandson from his work. 
ALARID Where was the bus? 
The old man points some twenty yards behind him. 
OLD MAN Over there. 
Alarid walks toward where the old man said and looks out at the mountains. Some of his men are visible at the tops. Alarid talks to them by radio. 
ALARID Look further to the right. 
The two brothers bundle up the skins, tie them up with some cord and they leave down the path away from the house. 
96   EXT. DESERT -- DAY 
As they climb a hill, they encounter a convoy of Moroccan police trucks. They are terrified. The vehicles screech to a dramatic halt before them, lifting up much dust. 
Alarid opens the passenger window. 
ALARID Hey, do you know where Abdullah Adboum lives? 
Ahmed and Yussef exchange a glance.   Yussef nods. 
YUSSEF Yes. 
Ahmed gets very nervous.   Yussef points the wrong way with an air of certainty. 
YUSSEF (CONT'D) Over there, you have to cross those mountains. 
ALARID They told us he lived around here. 
YUSSEF No, we just live here with our mother. Abdullah lives over there. 
Alarid scrutinizes the brothers' faces. 
ALARID If you're lying to me I'm going to come back and cut your balls off. 
Ahmed breathes nervously.    Yussef continues in cold blood. 
YUSSEF You can come back whenever you like. 
Alarid smiles and gestures at the driver with his head that they should go on. The police vehicles drive off in the direction Yussef pointed them in. 
97   EXT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Ahmed and Yussef run home. Their mother and sisters are milking some goats into a tin bucket. When they fill, Abdullah empties the milk out into a barrel. 
AHMED Papa... papa... 
Abdullah puts the bucket down on the floor and turns to look at his kids, who stop before him, panting, exhilarated. 
ABDULLAH What happened? 
Ahmed can barely control his gasping. 
AHMED The police... they're looking for you... 
ABDULLAH Me?    Why? 
YUSSEF No, they're not looking for you... they're looking for us... 
ABDULLAH You?    Why? 
YUSSEF Because of what happened to the tourist... 
Yasira and her two daughters stop milking and approach. Abdullah can't seem to understand what their talking about. 
ABDULLAH What tourist? 
AHMED The American... Yussef killed her... 
YUSSEF That's not true, we both did. 
YASIRA What are you saying? 
Ahmed fires his words out. 
AHMED Yussef started shooting at the cars because Hassan said that the bullet could go really far... 
YUSSEF That's a lie, you started shooting at the cars. 
AHMED Yes, but you killed her. 
Abdullah loses his patience and grabs Ahmed by the shoulders. 
ABDULLAH What the hell are you talking about? 
Ahmed looks at his father straight in the eyes. 
AHMED Yussef killed the American and he spies on Zora naked and Zora lets him watch her... 
Abdullah turns toward Zora.   In his mind, everything is confusion. 
ABDULLAH What is your brother talking about? 
ZORA That's bullshit. 
AHMED It's not bullshit; she's a whore and my brother spies on her... 
As soon as the words leave Ahmed's mouth, Yussef decks him and leaves him sprawled on the dust. 
Ahmed shoots right back up and runs at Yussef kicking, until they're both entangled in the fight and end up rolling on the ground. Abdullah tries to get between them. 
98   EXT. HAMLET "LOS LOBOS" -- DAY 
Debbie and Mike are almost like spectators at a soccer match between the other kids, as they play in the dirt with an orange plastic ball. 
Nobody passes to them.    Mike just runs from side to side without saying a word.    Frustrated, Debbie just watches. 
99    INT. HOUSE, HAMLET "LOS LOBOS" -- DAY 
nside the house, Amelia is checking on the food. 
AMELIA (All in Spanish) How many pots of rice did you make? 
DAUGHTER 1 I made two. 
Susan lies on the floor with her neck shoddily stitched and a splint on her shoulder made out of a few sticks and some dirty bandages. She moans in pain and mumbles curses. 
SUSAN I hate you... I hate you... 
She tries to stand, but the doctor impedes it. 
DOCTOR (To Anwar in Arabic) Tell her not to move; the bullet's still inside. 
ANWAR (To Susan) Don't move, miss. The bullet is still inside you. 
SUSAN I don't give a shit... 
RICHARD My love, don't move. 
SUSAN I want to call the kids. 
RICHARD You can't move, calm down. 
SUSAN I want to talk to them. 
RICHARD You can't; there's only one phone in town. I'll call them later. 
She seems obsessed by the idea. 
SUSAN I want to talk to them... 
She tries to stand again. As they struggle, the grandmother takes out a hash pipe form a drawer and lights it. She gives it two drags and squats next to Susan. 
She shows her how to smoke it and hands it over. The old woman's serenity is such that Susan acquiesces. She takes four drags and slowly starts to relax. 
Susan smokes another three times, relaxes and closes her eyes. The old woman goes to get the clump of mud and starts to spread it on Susan's neck. Susan does not protest. Richard watches the scene in awe. 
117   EXT. ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
The bus is still parked outside Anwar's house. Some of the passengers sit leaning against the wall, scrutinized by some of the town's children and women who have offered them tea and dates. 
118   INT. BUS -- DAY 
The driver sits in the driver's seat and stares out at the desolate landscape through the windshield. 
Several of the tourists nap in their seats. One of them, a French tourist, Robert (70), starts to breathe with difficulty. Jane (65), his wife, is alarmed. 
JANE (In French) Are you ok? 
Robert nods, but it is clear that he is not.    Jane shouts at the driver. 
JANE (CONT'D) (In French) Could you please turn on the air conditioning? 
The driver shakes his head regretfully. 
DRIVER (In broken French) No air condition, no gasoline near. I'm sorry. 
Robert inhales, he can barely breathe. 
JANE (In French) My husband is feeling ill.     You have to turn it on. 
DRIVER (In French) No possible. No gasoline near.      I'm sorry. 
LILLY (In French) Please, it's too hot.   We can get dehydrated. 
DRIVER (In French) I'm really sorry, forgive me, but gasoline finish with air conditioner. 
Tom turns to Jane. 
TOM What is he saying? 
JANE That he can't turn on the air conditioning, that it's not possible. 
Tom stands up and goes to yell at the driver. 
TOM Fuck you.   We're gettin' out of here. 
119   EXT. PATIO, ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Tom resolutely walks up the stairs followed by James. 
120   INT. ROOM, ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Richard is looking out the window while Susan, relaxed, sleeps. Tom and James walk in making noise. 
TOM We've gotta talk to you. 
Richard, with his index finger, signals for him to shut up and points at Susan. He gestures for them to leave the room. 
121   EXT. ANWAR'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Tom, James and others are gathered by the door. 
TOM We're leaving. 
RICHARD You can't leave us like this. 
TOM There are old people here and the heat is getting to them. 
RICHARD At least wait until an ambulance comes. 
TOM One man almost fainted in the bus and there's a woman who needs to get back in time to take her medication. 
Richard turns to Anwar. 
RICHARD Is there anyone around here who can take them in? 
TOM It's not about that. 
LILLY Sir, we can't wait anymore. 
The doorman picks up a cordless phone and dials. 
DOORMAN (CONT'D) Lieutenant Kenji Mamiya, please? 
There is a pause. The doorman gestures to Chieko that the lieutenant will answer in a moment. 
DOORMAN (CONT'D) Lieutenant? Yes, look, I'm with the deaf-mute girl you saw in the afternoon, and she asked me to call you... Yes, her... She says she needs to talk to you, alone... about her father... If it's possible, in her apartment, tonight. 
Chieko watches attentively. 
129   EXT. YUSSEF AND AHMED'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Yussef and Ahmed are sitting against the wall of the house. Yussef's lip is split. Ahmed's nose is bleeding. 
Abdullah paces desperately, while his wife and daughters watch the scene, silent. Abdullah stops to look at Yussef. 
ABDULLAH Why did you do this? 
They don't answer.   Abdullah leans over and slaps Ahmed. 
ABDULLAH (CONT'D) Answer me, god damn it! 
Ahmed won't answer and he turns to Yussef again. 
YUSSEF We were testing the rifle. 
Abdullah turns and gives Yussef a powerful slap, which he endures with silent dignity. 
ABDULLAH Are you idiots? You killed a woman, (He turns to Zora) And you, you got naked so your brother would see you? 
AHMED Yes, she got naked lots of times.    I saw how Yussef spied on her. 
ZORA That's not true. 
Abdullah turns to Yussef. 
ABDULLAH Is it true or not? 
Yussef is silent. Abdullah walks two steps forward and slaps Zora. He looks furious, scared, indignant. 
ABDULLAH (CONT'D) Why did you do this to us? 
He can barely hold in his tears. Zora brings her hand to her face tearily. Abdullah turns to Ahmed. 
ABDULLAH (CONT'D) Where's the rifle? 
130   EXT. HASSAN'S HOUSE -- DAY 
A cop interrogates Hassan. His face is badly bruised and his hands are cuffed behind his back. 
COP What organization gave you the weapon? 
HASSAN I've told you it wasn't an organization; I got it from a hunter. 
COP What hunter? 
HASSAN A Japanese hunter gave it to me many years ago. I've got a picture inside. She can get it. 
He turns to look at his wife. She has also been beaten and is guarded by two cops. The interrogating cop authorizes her. She walks in and comes out with a photograph of Hassan with Yasujiro, posing with the scimitar-horned oryx. He hands it over and the cop examines it. 
HASSAN (CONT'D) He's holding the rifle he gave me. 
131   EXT. DESERT -- DAY 
Yussef and Ahmed dig up the rifle and the bullets in front of their parents and sisters. 
Abdullah grabs the rifle, dusts it off and puts the bullets in his bag. He turns to Yasira. 
ABDULLAH We're going to hide out at Naguib's house. If the cops come, tell them we went south. 
With the rifle in hand, Abdullah runs off, followed by Yussef and Ahmed. The women watch them get lost on the horizon. 
132   EXT. HASSAN'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Alarid's truck parks in front of Hassan's house again. Hassan is still cuffed and being interrogated. Furious, Alarid gets out of the truck and goes toward him. 
ALARID This Abdullah doesn't live where you said he did. 
He walks over to kick him. The wife intervenes from where she is, some ten yards away. 
WIFE They live where he said they do. 
Alarid turns to her. 
ALARID You're going to take us. 
With a gesture, he orders his subordinates to put her in the truck. She obeys, docile. 
ALARID (CONT'D) And if they're not there, I'll cut your tongue out and I'll kill your husband. 
133   EXT. DESERT -- DAY 
The Moroccan police trucks drive down the dusty roads.    The landscape is harsh and barren. 
134   INT. POLICE TRUCK -- DAY 
Hassan's wife gives directions. 
WIFE Make a right here. 
Alarid, with his hand, signals the driver to follow her directions. 
Suddenly, in the distance, over the hills, she signals three tiny dots running up a slope. 
WIFE (CONT'D) That's them. 
A cowboy pulls out a gun and, festively, fires.   Debbie is frightened and goes to hide behind Amelia. 
AMELIA Don't worry, it's ok. 
The man puts the gun away and walks back onto the dance floor as if nothing had happened. 
Luis asks the band to stop the music for a little bit and he takes the microphone. 
LUIS Good evening everyone... Hey... I want to say something. Love came today, it came here all pretty... (he taps his heart) It's kind of like a little mouse is crawling inside of me. Because that's what love is, it's like your insides get all twisted into knots... and that, baby, is what you've taught me. And because you've shown me, I want to tell everyone that hopefully love will get inside them too...because it feels so good, really...Thanks a lot and keep havin' a good time... 
Everybody applauds and Luis steps down from the dais, proud of his speech. He goes to Amelia and gives her a very long and loving hug. 
142   EXT. HAMLET "LOS LOBOS" -- NIGHT 
Night has fallen. The music plays full blast. Everyone dances, people start to make out, the drunk collapse. 
Patricia breathes regularly with her hands on her belly. Luis drinks beer beside her while he watches the guests dance. Debbie falls asleep on Amelia's lap while Mike watches the party, overwhelmed. 
MIKE When are my parents getting back? 
The question catches Amelia off guard. 
AMELIA Pronto...muy pronto... 
MIKE They told me they were coming back today. 
AMELIA Se quedaron más rato. 
The answer seem to makes Mike anxious. 
MIKE My dad's coming back with my mom. 
AMELIA Yes. Yes he is. 
MIKE I don't want him to leave again. 
AMELIA He won't. 
He starts crying. 
MIKE I miss Pat. 
Amelia embraces him and kisses his head. 
AMELIA Yo también hijito, yo también. 
The boy, tired and sleepy, leans his head on Amelia. 
143   EXT. HAMLET "LOS LOBOS" -- NIGHT 
Santiago, a little bit drunk, and Amelia, carrying Debbie who has passed out, say goodbye to Luis and Patricia. Sleepy, Mike leans on the hood of the car. 
LUIS (All in Spanish) Stay the night. 
AMELIA I can't. I have to take these kids home and it's almost dawn. 
LUIS But Santiago's pretty drunk. 
SANTIAGO Drunk my ass. I'm fine. I'll go and come back in an hour. 
PATRICIA Stay for another while, the party's just getting started. 
AMELIA I wish, but these kids have to go to school. 
Santiago opens the door for Amelia, who carefully sets Debbie on the back seat. Mike gets in and as soon as he does he nestles in to go to sleep. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) See you soon, son. 
Luis and Amelia hug each other.    Then Amelia hugs her daughter- in-law. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) Congratulations, dear. (She points at her belly) Take care of my grandson 'cause I'm dying to be a grandmother. 
She gives her a kiss and gets in the car.   Luis turns to Santiago. 
LUIS You sure you're not too drunk? 
SANTIAGO Drunk my ass. I'm fine.     I'll be back soon. 
Santiago stumbles to the driver's side and opens the door. 
144   EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY -- NIGHT 
The night spreads over the highway that cuts across the desert. Santiago's car drives along, illuminating the cacti. 
145   INT. SANTIAGO'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Santiago drives the car, nodding off every now and then. In the back, Debbie and Mike have surrendered to sleep. Santiago jerks the wheel. 
AMELIA (In Spanish) Hey... be careful... 
Santiago corrects the vehicles trajectory and goes back to his careless driving. 
146   EXT. BORDER CROSSING -- NIGHT 
Santiago decides to cross through Mesa de Otay. Since it's nighttime, there are very few cars. They drive across the bridge and stop before the immigration officer. 
147   EXT. IMMIGRATION STALL, BORDER CROSSING -- CONTINUOUS 
The officer walks up to the window. 
OFFICER Your papers... 
Santiago and Amelia take out their passports and their Green cards. The officer compares the documents to their faces again and again. 
OFFICER (CONT'D) Where you comin' from? 
Santiago turns to Amelia. 
SANTIAGO (Their entire dialogue in Spanish) Get out... 
Amelia looks at the dark desert surrounding them. 
AMELIA Are you crazy? Where? 
SANTIAGO Get out. I'll lose these bastards and then I'll come back for you. 
AMELIA Santiago, calm down... 
SANTIAGO Aunt Amelia, they're going to get us, get out god damn it... 
154   EXT. SANTIAGO'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Amelia gets out and opens the door for the kids. 
AMELIA (In English) Come with me, dears. 
The kids get out and Amelia holds their hand.   Santiago closes the doors and drives off in a cloud of dust. 
They start to walk through the darkness. Amelia leads the way, avoiding cacti and thorny branches. The go on like this for a long stretch. The children are quiet and scared. 
Amelia goes toward the highway and realizes the patrol cars have turned into the path. She runs into the desert with the kids. She can barely see with the light of the early dawn. The three frequently trip on thorny plants. 
DEBBIE I want to go home now. 
MIKE Me too. 
Both of them, scared, start to cry. 
AMELIA (In English) Don't cry. We're going home now. 
She looks back worried at where the patrol cars were; they are approaching quickly. Then she turns to where Santiago ran. The headlights are soon lost on the horizon. 
Amelia holds them by the hand and pulls them as she runs. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) (In Spanish) Let's go. 
She leads them further and further away from the path, snaking through the brush. The patrol cars come even closer. Amelia ducks and hides behind one of the bushes. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) Get down. 
The children hide with her. The patrol cars tear past her, some five hundred yards away, chasing after Santiago. 
We suddenly hear sirens. Then, the sound of doors slamming and unintelligible voices over a loudspeaker. 
POLICE OFFICER (O.S.) Do not get out of the car...don't get out...wait...stop...stop...don't run... 
After a few seconds, we hear distant gunshots, three, four. Amelia listens, frozen. 
155   INT. ROOM, ANWAR'S HOUSE -- AFTERNOON 
Dusk. Susan sleeps and Richard looks at the vast desert through the window. Anwar, sitting on a chair, with a fan clears away the flies hovering around Susan. We can hear the call to prayer and Anwar prostrates himself toward Mecca. 
Richard observes Anwar's prayer and then looks at Susan who moans in her sleep. 
156   INT. ANWAR'S HOUSE -- AFTERNOON 
Richard and Anwar are sitting in silence while Susan lies unconsciously on the floor. 
Yamilé (9), a beautiful girl with large brown eyes, enters carrying a tray with cookies and tea. She greets Richard with a nod and offers him tea. 
Richard takes the tea. 
RICHARD Thank you. 
The girl gets up to offer tea to Anwar, who takes it. 
ANWAR (In Arabic) Thank you, Yamilé. 
Yamilé smiles and leaves the room. 
RICHARD Is that your daughter? 
ANWAR The fourth of eight. 
RICHARD Eight? 
Anwar affirms, smiling. 
ANWAR Do you have kids? 
Richard takes out his wallet and pulls out a photo of him, Susan, Mike and Debbie. He shows it to him. 
Anwar takes it and looks at it. 
ANWAR (CONT'D) Just two? 
RICHARD Three... (He remains pensive) Yes, just two. 
ANWAR You should have more. 
Anwar returns the photo. Richard looks at it for a moment before putting it back into his wallet. 
RICHARD What about you? How many wives do you have? 
ANWAR (Smiling) I can only afford one. 
RICHARD And is this where you live? 
ANWAR No, this is where my family lives. I live in Marrakesh. But I come whenever I can... 
They exchange a look. We hear a car engine. 
RICHARD Where the fuck do you want me to take her? 
JAMES Try to understand, many of them can't go on. Tell me, honestly, is there any point in us staying? 
Richard threatens him. 
RICHARD You leave and I'll kill you... 
James is going to say something, but Richard turns around and walks away as he is about to say something. Anwar follows. 
159   INT. GENERAL STORE -- EVENING 
Richard is in the phone booth with telephone in hand. A woman's voice answers. 
RACHEL (O.S.) Hello... 
RICHARD Rachel... What's going on? Nobody's come... Who have you talked to... we need help...she's dying... 
RACHEL (O.S.) What d'you mean dying? 
RICHARD She's very weak, please, you've got to do something. 
RACHEL (O.S.) Mark, your business partner, already called someone in the Secretary of State, they're going to help you... 
RICHARD You can't just make these stupid fucking calls, you've got to do something... 
RACHEL (O.S.) Richard calm down, we're doing everything we can. 
RICHARD How the fuck do you expect me to calm down? Susan is dying... 
RACHEL (O.S.) I'm flying over there tonight. 
RICHARD There's no time. I need to get Susan out of here now! Put Mark on the phone... 
RACHEL (O.S.) I don't know if I can find him. 
RICHARD God damn it, connect the fucking call. 
A few seconds go by. Desperate, Richard looks at the town as it goes about its daily business, oblivious to his tragedy. 
MARK (O.S.) Richard, it's Mark. 
RICHARD Mark, help me... Susan is dying and there are no ambulances, there's no hospital, there's nothing. 
MARK (O.S.) Richard, the news is all over the place. They're going to go help you, soon, but there have been some political problems that are being resolved. 
RICHARD I don't give a shit about political problems... Do something, now, please... 
Through the window, Richard, astonished, watches the bus drive away, kicking up dust as it disappears in the distance. 
RICHARD (CONT'D) Son of a bitch... 
He throws the phone away and runs after the bus. We hear Mark's desperate voice over the receiver. 
MARK (O.S.) Richard... what happened? Richard, answer me... 
160   EXT. HAMLET -- EVENING 
Richard runs after the bus as it drives away down the side streets. 
RICHARD Stop... Stop... Stop you mother- fuckers stop... 
The bus vanishes into the distance. Richard picks up a stone and hurls it impotently. 
161   INT. CHIEKO'S ROOM -- NIGHT 
Chieko is in her room, sitting on her bed, staring into space. The doorbell light goes on. She remains motionless for a few moments. The light goes on again. Chieko breathes in and goes to open the door. 
162   INT. ENTRANCE TO CHIEKO'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
Chieko opens the door and runs into Kenji, who greets her as if she were just anybody. 
KENJI Hello. 
She bows. 
KENJI (CONT'D) They told me you wanted to talk to me. 
Chieko, who has been unable to read his lips, asks him with her hands that he speak slowly and face her. Kenji is embarrassed by his tactlessness and tries to be more considerate. 
KENJI (CONT'D) I'm sorry. Is there something you wanted to tell me? 
Chieko nods and asks him in with her hand. Kenji takes off his shoes and leaves them at the door. Chieko leads him to the living room and with a gesture asks if he wants anything to drink. 
KENJI (CONT'D) Do you have tea? 
Chieko nods and goes into the kitchen. Kenji glances over the apartment. Chieko comes back from the kitchen holding a strange gadget which she puts on the living room table. A small bulb lights. Kenji just watches her. 
Chieko gestures for him to sit down.     Kenji and Chieko sit across from each other. 
Chieko takes out her notebook and pen, writes something down and hands it over to Kenji. Kenji reads, seems surprised and reads again slowly. 
KENJI (CONT'D) "My father had nothing to do with my mother's death," what's this? 
Chieko is disconcerted at the question. She takes her notebook and starts writing. Kenji reads and turns to her. 
KENJI (CONT'D) Your father was asleep when she jumped off the balcony? 
She nods. She gets up, asks Kenji to go with her and walks toward the balcony. 
163   EXT. BALCONY, CHIEKO'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
She opens the door to the balcony and points at the void: it's over twelve floors. Kenji looks over; the distance is dizzying. Chieko writes in her notebook and shows him the piece of paper. 
KENJI You saw her jump? 
AMELIA (CONT'D) I have to go get two kids I left behind in the desert. 
John looks at her suspiciously. 
JOHN (In Spanish, with a terrible accent) Are they illegal immigrants? 
AMELIA No, they're American. 
JOHN When did you cross? 
AMELIA (In English) I didn't cross, I live here.   Please, help me find these kids. 
John keeps staring at her.   He points to a mesquite. 
JOHN Stand there and don't move. 
Amelia obeys. John goes back to the vehicle, opens the door and sits down and grabs the radio. 
JOHN (CONT'D) Attention base, I have a 4533...I have the suspect. 
Amelia doesn't manage to hear what the radio says. She looks attentively at what the agent is doing. John stops and runs back to her. 
JOHN (CONT'D) You're under arrest. Turn around and put your hands behind your head. 
Amelia despairs. 
AMELIA I left those kids in the desert, I swear. 
John pushes her forcefully against the truck. 
JOHN Turn around, now. 
She turns around with her hands over her head.    John handcuffs her and leads her to the vehicle. 
176   INT. BORDER PATROL VEHICLE -- DAY 
Amelia, cuffed, and John, drive down a path in the desert. 
JOHN Which way are they? 
Amelia studies the terrain.    She points at some mesquites in the distance. 
AMELIA (In Spanish) Over there. 
177   EXT. DESERT -- DAY 
The truck parks and they both get out. 
JOHN Where are they? 
Amelia explores the landscape, anguished. 
AMELIA They must be around here. 
Another border patrol truck arrives and pulls up next to them. Eliseo (34), looks out the window. 
ELISEO What happened? 
JOHN This lady said they were here, but there's nobody. 
ELISEO (In Spanish) Ma'am, you're not lying to us, are you? 
AMELIA (In Spanish) I swear they're around here somewhere. 
She sees another cluster of mesquites and points toward them. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) They must be over that way. 
178   EXT. CLUSTER OF MESQUITES -- DAY 
They arrive at the cluster. The two trucks park and the three get out. She is still cuffed. A helicopter hovers above them. 
They walk around: nothing. 
JOHN There's nobody here. 
AMELIA (To Eliseo, in Spanish) I left them about a kilometer in from the road. 
ELISEO (In Spanish) Which road? 
She doesn't know what to say.    John grabs her by the arm and drags her toward the vehicle. 
JOHN I don't believe you. 
Amelia looks at him desperately. 
AMELIA (In English) I swear they're around here. 
John is not affected.   He keeps pulling her. 
ELISEO (In English) John, wait, maybe she's telling the truth. 
JOHN Maybe she's not, let's go. 
AMELIA Please sir, believe me. 
John pays no attention.   She turns to Eliseo. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) (In Spanish) I swear, they're lost, they're going to die. I have to find them. 
John keeps pulling her. He puts her in the truck and closes the door before Eliseo's passive gaze. 
AMELIA (CONT'D) (In English) Please no... please... 
179   INT. ROOM, ANWAR'S HOUSE -- AFTERNOON 
He pulls away from Ken and follows Susan toward the E.R. 
192   INT. HALLWAY, E.R., MOROCCAN HOSPITAL -- NIGHT 
Several Moroccan doctors are examining Susan.    Richard observes worriedly from a window. 
One of the doctors comes out. 
MOROCCAN DOCTOR (In good English) We're going to have to operate immediately. 
RICHARD Is she going to be ok? 
MOROCCAN DOCTOR It's probable. We're going to try to save her arm.   She's been bleeding internally, and there's been some clotting so there's a high risk of gangrene. 
RICHARD (insistently, as if he hadn't heard the doctor) But she's going to be ok? 
The Moroccan doctor puts his hand on Richard's shoulder and thinks about his answer. 
MOROCCAN DOCTOR Yes, she's going to be ok. 
The doctor leaves and Richard goes back to looking at his wife through the glass. 
The doctors are still prepping her.   Richard walks in. 
193   INT. EMERGENCY ROOM -- NIGHT 
He stands next to Susan, who is unconscious. He looks at a doctor and she moves to one side. Richard leans over and kisses her. 
He walks away and the nurses start to wheel her to the O.R. 
194   INT. HALLWAY, MOROCCAN HOSPITAL -- NIGHT 
Richard is talking on the phone from an office. 
RICHARD Amelia? 
AMELIA (O.S.) Yes sir. 
RICHARD How is everything? 
AMELIA (O.S.) Ok sir, Mrs. Rachel told me. I'm very sorry. How is Mrs. Susan? 
RICHARD They're going to operate now... Amelia... take good care of the kids, and don't tell them anything... 
AMELIA (O.S.) No sir, don't worry. 
RICHARD Put Mike on please. 
A few seconds pass and Mike answers.   This is the phone call from the beginning. 
MIKE (O.S.) Hi dad. 
RICHARD Hey sweetie, how are you? 
MIKE (O.S.) Dad, guess what? Today, at school, they brought some baby chickens. 
RICHARD Oh really? 
MIKE (O.S.) I held one in my hand. He was really little and he was all warm. 
Richard starts to cry for the first time. 
MIKE (O.S.) (CONT'D) Dad, are you ok? 
Richard tries to hold back his sobbing. 
RICHARD Yeah, I'm ok. Everything's fine. 
The boy keeps talking while Richard cries. 
MIKE (O.S.) And Mariana wanted to take one home, but the teacher didn't let her... 
195   INT. CHIEKO'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
Chieko, naked, sits in an armchair, again submerged in the remote world of her silence. Before her, Kenji observes her nakedness, her sadness, her pained beauty. 
For a while they remain motionless. She seems to return from the long journey to herself and turns to look at him. Their eyes meet. There are still tears in Chieko's eyes. They hold each other's gaze until Chieko gets up, gets her notebook, scribbles down some words and gives them to him. 
Kenji reads them and looks at her. 
KENJI You don't have to apologize for anything. 
She sits down beside him. They look at each other again for a few, long seconds. Chieko takes his hand, strokes it for a moment, kisses it, sucks one of his fingers and then puts it back in its place. 
She grabs her notebook and starts writing a long note. It takes her almost a minute to do so. Kenji, nervous because of her proximity, watches her write feverishly. 
Chieko finishes writing, folds the note and hands it to Kenji. Kenji starts unfolding it, but Chieko stops him. She takes it away from him, folds it again and puts it in his breast pocket. She signals for him to read it later. 
Kenji gets up to go. She stands next to him. Her nakedness contrasts with Kenji's toughness. He bows his head to say goodbye and she moves aside for him to pass. Kenji walks past her as she watches. 
Kenji reaches the door. He opens it and turns to look at Chieko again, who has been left in the middle of the hall. He bows his head again and leaves. 
Chieko watches him leave and closes her eyes painfully. 
196   INT. ELEVATOR, CHIEKO'S BUILDING -- NIGHT 
Kenji rides the elevator down, touched, barely able to contain his emotion. The elevator doors open and he walks out. 
197   INT. LOBBY, TOKYO APARTMENT BUILDING -- NIGHT 
Kenji walks past the doorman. 
KENJI Good night. 
He keeps walking. On the other end of the lobby, at the parking lot entrance, Yasujiro walks in. 
