CHARLIE I better get going. Kenny's probably waiting for me now. I'm sorry I yelled like that. 
HELEN What are you sorry about? Don't I yell at you all the time? 
WE STAY ON HELEN, as she reads her newspaper, but there is a faint frown on her face. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INTERIOR. LOCAL PLATFORM EASTSIDE IRT SUBWAY An express train hurtles southward. We see it flashing by through the concrete pillars of the subway. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
IRT EXPRESS HURTLING SOUTHWARD Charlie and another young man, named Kenneth, are seated in a crowded subway car. People are standing tightly in the aisles. Kenneth is an amiable young man of thirty-odd. He has his jacket off and his tie loosened as a concession to the August heat. Charlie is neatly and coolly dressed. He has two notebooks and a battered text in his lap. He is reading the text. Two young white-collar workers on their way to work. They ride along silently for a moment. Kenneth is rather stealthily concerned with a full-busted young woman who is standing directly in front of him, holding on to a strap. It is summertime, and the girls all wear light summer frocks. There is a feeling of wistful sensuality to the scene. 
KENNETH You going to Arnold's bachelor party? 
CHARLIE I don't think so, Kennie. 
KENNETH What? 
CHARLIE I got two classes tonight. 
KENNETH Yeah, I was going to go, but I think I better not, because my kid, the young one, the girl, she's been acting up again lately. She's got some kind of allergy, the doctors don't know what. 
CHARLIE These bachelor parties get kind of wild sometimes. Eddie Watkins is making all the arrangements. He's probably got us lined up with a bunch of chorus girls. 
KENNETH Yeah, do you think so? 
CHARLIE You know Eddie. 
KENNETH Yeah, boy, he really lives it up, don't he? Did you see that blonde who picked him up for lunch last week? Boy, sometimes I wish I was a bachelor. Well, you know what I mean. I never seem to get out of the house any more, you know what I mean? About once a week, I go to the movies. We never even see the whole picture. My wife starts worrying about the kids. My youngest kid, the girl, she's got some kind of rash. We don't know what it is. I never seem to see anybody any more. Do you know how long it is since I've seen Willie Duff? I haven't seen Willie in about six months. My wife can't stand his wife. You ever seen her, Willie's wife? 
CHARLIE No, I didn't know Willie too well. 
KENNETH Boy, wait'll you have kids, boy. You'll never get out of the house. 
CHARLIE Helen's pregnant now. 
KENNETH No kidding. 
CHARLIE Yeah. 
KENNETH Oh, that's wonderful, Charlie, that's wonderful! 
The two young husbands look down again at their hands and ride along silently. Kenneth sneaks a quick look up at the girl standing in front of him, and then lets his attention drift down the length of the car. 
KENNETH Hey, there's a guy down there, trying to pick up a girl down there. 
He is referring to a Young Fellow who elbowed his way down through the crowded aisle but who stopped abruptly when he noticed an attractive girl, seated about three seats down from Kenneth. The Girl is reading a newspaper. The Young Fellow stares at her. The Girl, aware of this sudden attention, looks briefly up from her newspaper. The Young Fellow smiles pleasantly. The Girl, with a show of annoyance, looks back to her newspaper. 
KENNETH Were you with us about eight years ago when I picked up that chick in front of the bus stop in Paterson, New Jersey? 
CHARLIE When was this? 
They start to crowd down the aisle. The train is chugging into the Chambers Street station, and we can see the yellowed lights of the platform and the quick blur of faces. The two young husbands, who had been following the byplay between The Girl and the Young Fellow, now watch them slowly exit. There is an expression of poignant wistfulness on both their faces. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXTERIOR. THE OFFICE We look down on the bookkeeping department of a life insurance company in downtown Manhattan area around Pine Street. It is a fairly large room, large enough to hold eleven desks. But you get the feeling that this is one of the smaller offices on the floor. You get the feeling that this company occupies three or four floors of this building. Despite the size of the office, it has a cluttered look. Each desk has piles of paper on it, and all the impedimenta of the bookkeeper -- the pens and pencils, the adding machine, the telephone. Some of the desks have typewriters. Along the walls there are rows of filing cabinets and wall bins stocked with large worksheets and thick ledgers. At the far end of the room, there is a row of windows, but it is still necessary to keep the overhead fluorescent lights on all day. They are on now. There are two middle-aged women standing, murmuring to each other, and a rather heavy-set balding man in his late forties, sitting at a desk in his shirt sleeves, already hard at work, although it is still ten minutes shy of eight-thirty. 
Kenneth and Charlie enter. Ad lib hellos between them and the two middle-aged women. Charlie moves to the coat rack to hang up his jacket, drops off his books on his desk, starts for the coat rack. Behind Charlie, we see Kenneth, carrying his jacket, moving to his desk, up where the middle-aged man is working. 
KENNETH Hiya, Walter. 
CHARLIE Hiya, Walter. 
Walter, the middle-aged man, nods his good mornings. 
KENNETH (poking in his desk drawer; amiably) Walter, what time do you come in in the mornings? You're making us all look lousy, you know that? I get the feeling sometimes, you stay here overnight. 
Walter merely nods, doesn't bother to look up from the work. Kenneth finds a stick of gum in his drawer, unwraps it. Two more women, gray-haired and bespectacled, come into the office. There is an ad lib mumble of hellos in background. Charlie hangs up his jacket on the coat rack. 
CHARLIE Arnold in yet? 
WALTER He starts his vacation today. He's getting married Sunday, you know. 
CLOSEUP of Charlie looking out the window into the bright August morning. His face is just a little ruffled by a frown, and there is a kind of pain in his eyes. Behind him, Walter and Kenneth. 
WALTER (a nervous, anxious man) Well, the doctor was over last night. Brought over the X rays; brought over the allergy tests. Brought over a bill for sixty-eight dollars.  I said to him: "Doctor, you're a young man, professional, highly educated, four years of college, two years of premedical training, several years of interning, of residency. If you're so smart, how can you charge me sixty-eight dollars? One thing they apparently didn't teach you in medical school. You can't get blood from a stone." 
KENNETH So what's wrong with you, Walter? 
WALTER What's wrong? I have to go to Arizona, that's what's wrong. I have asthma. When I was a kid, they called it hay fever, and you carried a bag around your neck. Asafetida. Now, they call it asthma, and you have to go to Arizona. I said to him: "Doctor, you're a professional man, four years of college, premedical school, Bellevue, several diplomas. Answer me a question. Who's going to pay for Arizona?" I said to him: "Doctor," I said, "perhaps you have the illusion I am the Aga Khan. I have a bearing about me, perhaps, that misleads you to believe I have blood ties with the Whitneys and the Rockefellers. This isn't true." Arizona. Did you ever hear of such nonsense? 
KENNETH How serious is it, Walter? 
WALTER Serious. Nothing serious. I have hay fever, I sneeze a couple of times. The idiot told my wife I have to go to Arizona, and she wouldn't leave me alone all night. She's already packing the bags. I said: "For heaven's sakes, you listen to doctors, we'll all be dead." My son, Harold, believe me, he's going to be a doctor. That's some racket, boy. Sixty-eight dollars. 
CLOSEUP of Charlie, still at the window, when a bell suddenly clangs, indicating the start of the workday. The sudden jangle makes him start, and he closes his eyes briefly against the noise.  Walter, in background, who had risen and was bent over Kenneth's desk, darts nervously back to his own desk. 
WALTER You better get to work. Hey, Charlie, that was the bell. I think Flaherty is here this morning. We'll all be fired today. I have a feeling. 
He hunches over his ledgers again, his anxious, harried face drawn into intense wrinkles of concentration. Several other women have come into the office by now, and there is a general movement to the desks. There is the click of a typewriter, and Walter runs his fingers glibly over the adding machine on his desk. The day has started. 
After a moment, Charlie turns from the window and comes back to his desk, sinks down onto his chair. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INTERIOR. THE OFFICE -- TWENTY MINUTES LATER We look down on the bookkeeping department. All the desks are occupied but two. There are six women and our three men. The office is silent with industry, everybody's head bent over his desk. There is the occasional punctuation of an adding machine or a typewriter or a phone ringing. 
Our three men are bent over their tally sheets, worksheets, and ledgers, occasionally reaching up to quickly tabulate something on the adding machine. After a moment, Walter says: 
WALTER (without looking up from his work) You fellows going to Arnold's party tonight? 
KENNETH (without looking up) No, I'm not going, are you? 
WALTER No. Eddie already hooked me for four bucks for Arnold's present. This dinner is going to cost another couple of good dollars. 
EDDIE Mary, give me an outside line.... (he pauses, checks the number in the phone book again, dials, waits) Hello, is this Leathercraft on Madison Avenue? ... This is Mr. Watkins. I was in about a week ago. I ordered a military set and a wallet. They were supposed to be ready yesterday.... Yes, please, would you? ... (he is searching his pockets while he waits, finds a piece of paper, pulls it out) Yeah, a military set and a wallet.... 
WALTER Is that what we bought poor Arnold? 
EDDIE (on phone) That's right. The following inscriptions should be on them: (reads from the paper) On the military set: "To Arnold: Best wishes on your marriage from Alice, Charlie, Eddie, Evelyn, Jeanette with two t's, Kenneth, Lucy, Mary, Olga, Walter, and Flaherty." Now on the wallet ... Yeah, what? .... Yeah, that's right -- Flaherty. Now, on the wallet, the following inscription: "To my Best Friend Arnold from his Best Man Eddie." ... No, to my best friend Arnold. ... That's right. "From his best man Eddie" ... Now, can I come in at lunch and pick them up? ... 
A young woman comes into the office, goes to Walter's desk and drops some papers before him. 
WALTER What's this, Jeanette? 
GIRL It's from finance, don't ask me. 
This is the girl in the office who goes to the water cooler three times a morning and all the men covertly watch her. She is cute, but attractive more by comparison to the other women in the office. Nevertheless, all the men, including Eddie and Charlie, let their eyes cautiously watch her as she leaves, her sheath dress tight on her hips. 
Eddie, who has hung up, now rubs his eyes with two fingers to clear his head and picks up the phone again. 
EDDIE (on phone) Mary, give me the Hotel Westmore. Circle 7-0598. 
CHARLIE (hands Kennie paper) This isn't for me -- it's for you. 
EDDIE (to the others) Now who owes me on the presents? Charlie, you owe me? 
CHARLIE I gave you four bucks yesterday.... 
KENNETH I owe you, Eddie. I'll pay you tomorrow, payday. 
EDDIE (on phone) Miss Frances Kelley, please. I think it's room 417.... 
The three heads around him look slowly up from their respective work, naked interest manifest on their faces. 
EDDIE (calling to one of the women in the office) Hey, Evelyn, you owe me four bucks. 
EVELYN (calling back) All right. I know. 
EDDIE (on phone) Hello, Frances, this is Eddie.... All right, wait a minute. Give me a chance to explain.... I know I woke you up.... All right, let me tell you. You know I'm supposed to be the best man at this fellow Arnold's wedding. So I called him up last night because I didn't know whether I was supposed to wear tuxedo or tails. Well, he didn't know either, so he said: "Come on over to my girl's house with me tonight. They're making all the arrangements for the wedding now." So I called you and left a message at the desk saying I couldn't get over till about ten o'clock.... All right! That's what I'm going to explain! ... Thank you. (holds receiver against his chest and looks at his colleagues with air of a man being tried just a little too much. Returns receiver to his ear, listens for a moment) All right, so I had to go over to Arnold's girl's house with Arnold last night. Well, there was about thirty people there, and, man, you never saw such a crazy mess. There was this little bald-headed guy there. He's the bride's uncle. He's come all the way down from Boston with his whole family to go to the wedding. The only trouble was, he wasn't invited. Well, this crazy uncle, he grabs ahold of me, he starts shaking me by the lapels. So I said: "What do you want from me? I ain't the groom! I'm just trying to find out whether I'm supposed to wear tuxedo or tails." (apparently this got a laugh. Eddie breaks into a smile) Funny, huh? ... Look, Frances. I have to go to work now. I'm calling you from the office. How about letting me make this up to you? I'll take you out to dinner Saturday night.... I can't make it tonight. The bachelor party's tonight.... All right, Saturday night.... It's a date.... S'help me.... I swear, right on time. Eight-thirty, okay? ... Okay, we'll have a ball. Goodbye, go back to sleep. 
He hangs up. The three married men look down again to their ledgers and tap away again on their adding machines. Eddie sits slumped in his seat for a moment. 
EDDIE What did I just tell that girl, Saturday night? 
KENNETH Yeah. 
EDDIE (picks up phone) Mary, give me Columbus 5-1098.... What do you mean personal calls! These are business calls! Well, stop listening to other people's conversations.... What have you got, stock in the company? Columbus (waits) 
KENNETH Listen, Eddie, I don't think I can go tonight. My father-in-law's in from Akron, Ohio, and---- 
EDDIE (all sweetness) Hello, who is this, Mrs. Stebbins? ... This is Eddie, Mrs. Stebbins. I wonder if I can talk to Muriel.... Could I speak to her? ... Thank you.... 
The three married men each look up slowly again, naked envy on each face. 
EDDIE (on phone) Muriel, baby, listen, sweetie, I can't make it Saturday night.... I'm all loused up with this wedding I'm supposed to be the best man at.... We have to rehearse the ceremony. You'd think they were getting married on television.... Yes, sweetie, why don't I call you Monday. Maybe, we'll work out something before you go back to California.... All right, sweetie, good-bye. 
He hangs up, sits a moment, then finally removes the cigarette from his mouth, crushes it in his ash tray, and turns to the others. 
WIDE SHOT of our bachelor party, showing all five. They all seem to be in the best of spirits. The new member of the cast is Arnold, the groom, a towheaded, pleasant-looking young man of thirty, shy to the point of being noticeable. Of all the men at the party, he is the quietest. He sits, a smile nailed onto his face, turning his head from one friend to another as they talk, enjoying the rare privilege of being liked. The dinner is over. During the ensuing scene, a bus boy continues to remove the used dishes. Several large bottles of beer and two fifths of Scotch are on the table. There is a welter of variously assorted glasses. Eddie, Walter, and Kenneth are smoking cigars, Charlie a cigarette. The Groom is not smoking.  We have cut into the scene during a jumble of conversation. Walter is talking to Charlie, whose head is bent toward the older man. Kenneth is trying to tell the Groom a joke, but the Groom's attention is being distracted by Eddie, who is leaning across the table trying to get Charlie's attention. Ad libs. 
KENNETH (finishing story) Three hundred pounds! Isn't she kind of fat? No, man, tall! Hey, waiter! Waiter! 
EDDIE Hey, Charlie ... 
WALTER (to Charlie) ... so we were stationed right outside Paris, about eight miles, a town called Chatou ... 
EDDIE ... hey, Charlie ... 
WALTER (to Charlie) ... so the first night, a whole bunch of us swiped a jeep out of the motor court. We had a feller there who was a tech sergeant in the motor court. Oh, what a character he was! He used to get loaded every night on that vanilla extract. 
EDDIE Hey, Charlie ... 
CHARLIE What do you want, Eddie? 
EDDIE Hey, Charlie, did I ever tell you about the time I was stationed at Buckley Field in Denver, and I picked up this girl in Lakeside Amusement Park? 
WALTER Hey, Eddie, listen to this story I'm telling Charlie. Hey, Arnold, I'm telling Charlie about the time me and that crazy tech sergeant from the motor court got loaded on vanilla extract and went to Paris ... Hey, Kenneth ... 
KENNETH When do the Giants come back from their road trip, does anybody know? 
EDDIE Hey, let's give out the presents now. 
WALTER Hey, Kenneth, listen to this story. I was stationed outside of Paris, about eight miles ... 
CHARLIE What? 
KENNETH Oh, that Paris! I was there for two days! Clubs! You had to beat the women off with clubs! ... 
CHARLIE (to people at another table) What ...? Oh, it's a bachelor party -- this guy's getting married. 
EDDIE Listen, I want to give the presents ... 
WALTER Well, let me tell you what happened ... 
EDDIE Hey, you know what was a great town for women, Hamburg! 
KENNETH Hamburg! Clubs! Clubs! You had to beat them off with clubs! Hey, waiter -- who's our waiter? 
CHARLIE Hey, Arnold, enjoying yourself? 
EDDIE The first night I was in Hamburg, two Frauleins come walking right in the barracks. So I said to the lieutenant ... 
Walter, who is pretty lit, suddenly stands and bangs the table mightily with his fist. 
WALTER (bellowing out) The best fighting outfit in the whole fighting army was the fighting Hundred and Fourth Infantry Division, General Terry Allen commanding! 
This brings the jumbled conversation to a halt. Walter surveys the other four, looking for possible challenges, then sits heavily down. 
EDDIE (standing) Well, now that we got that settled.... 
CHARLIE I'm with you, Walter. 
This touching address has brought a note of sadness to the gathering. Indeed, there are tears in Walter's and Arnold's eyes. 
EDDIE (handing Arnold two neatly wrapped packages) Well, anyway, in all seriousness, here are a couple of presents from all of us in the office and good luck. 
Arnold takes the presents, stands, head bowed. Eddie sits and all faces turn to Arnold. 
ARNOLD Well, I just want to thank you fellows. I don't know what to say. I just want to thank you. 
KENNETH Open the presents, Arnold. 
ARNOLD I will. I just want to say, Eddie, that when the Pirates invade Ebbets Field next Tuesday night, I'm going to be sitting right there in Section 37 there right with you. 
EDDIE You'll be on your honeymoon next Tuesday, Arnold. 
This interesting information gives Arnold pause. 
ARNOLD Gee, that's right. 
CHARLIE (smiling) Arnold, you're getting married Sunday, did you forget? 
WALTER Look at him blush. 
ARNOLD (frowning fuzzily) No, I didn't forget. It's just that ... Gee, that's right. Sunday. What's today, Thursday? 
KENNETH and EDDIE All day! 
ARNOLD Boy, it's here, isn't it? I guess I've been running around so much the last couple of weeks, I guess the wedding snuck up on me. 
KENNETH I think Arnold's having a little buck fever. Does anyone know what our waiter looks like? 
EDDIE (to Kenneth) You know who didn't want to chip in for Arnold's presents? ... 
CHARLIE Arnold'll be all right. Have a drink, Arnold. 
WALTER I had my basic training in Camp Croft, South Carolina, near Spartanburg. 
EDDIE I was at Maxwell Field, what a desert. 
CHARLIE Walter, what ever happened when you and that tech sergeant from the motor pool got loaded on vanilla extract? 
WALTER What tech sergeant? 
CHARLIE Walter, you're crocked. (to Arnold) Open up the presents -- see what you got. 
KENNETH Hey, are you our waiter? Bring us some ice. I got him -- I got our waiter! 
ARNOLD It was sure nice of you fellows. 
The voices have risen again into the jumbled high spirits that opened the scene. 
EDDIE Hey, man, we're having a ball! 
DISSOLVE TO: 
CHARLIE (to The Existentialist) We're from Terre Haute, and we've come to the big city looking for a good time, and we just don't know what to do with ourselves, ma'am. 
EDDIE (to Walter) Look at that Charlie operate. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST Must be a convention in town. 
CHARLIE We've just come off the ranch there, honey, and we're just raring. Is that right, men? Are we raring? 
EDDIE We're raring, boy, we're raring! 
KENNETH (beside himself with laughter) Hey, Charlie, cut it out, will you? 
The lights change and The Existentialist starts off across Greenwich Avenue to the west side of the street. The five carousers follow right along after her.  That is, Charlie dogs along behind The Existentialist as they cross the street. Walter and Eddie are close behind him, listening to Charlie's pitch. Kenneth and Arnold, embarrassed and giggling, stagger along behind. 
CHARLIE (chugging along behind The Existentialist) We're down here in Greenwich Village looking for some wild bohemians. Do you happen to know any wild bohemians? 
THE EXISTENTIALIST All right, fellows, enough's enough, huh? 
She steps up to the sidewalk on the west side of Greenwich Avenue and hurries along down Tenth Street to a little house about four doors down, the five carousers on her heels like a pack of puppies. 
CHARLIE (hurrying along after The Existentialist) I'm something of a poet myself, ma'am. Many's the long night in the bunkhouse where I sat by myself and wrote by the flickering light of a kerosene lamp. Could I read you some of my poems, ma'am? I know they ain't much, but they're from the heart, ma'am. 
The Existentialist pauses in her hurried walk down Tenth Street to examine Charlie with some interest. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST You have a sense of humor, don't you? 
EDDIE (to Charlie) You're going great, man, don't stop now. 
The Existentialist goes up the two little steps to the front door of the house and rings the bell. 
EDDIE (to The Existentialist) Where are you going, honey? 
The Existentialist waits composed and patient for someone to answer her ring. Charlie has wandered back to Arnold and Kenneth, and the three of them are now suffused with laughter. Kenneth has been laughing so much, tears are coming out of his eyes. He walks around in little circles clutching his sides. Several passersby hurry by, noting the strange little group on the sidewalk. 
EDDIE (to The Existentialist) What's going on in there, honey? 
THE EXISTENTIALIST (patiently bored) There's a party going on. I'm not sure I'm invited myself, so I can't really invite you. 
EDDIE Sure you can. 
The door opens and a woman in a tea gown stands there looking at The Existentialist and then at the five men on the sidewalk. Behind her, there is evidence of a party going on. 
THE HOSTESS How nice to see you, darling. Who are your friends? 
THE EXISTENTIALIST I haven't the vaguest idea. I was ambushed crossing Greenwich Avenue by a tribe of the Terre Haute Kiwanis. 
THE HOSTESS (she waves a vague hand in a sort of shooing motion at the five men on the sidewalk) Go away, you men. Go back to the Biltmore Hotel and put on your red caps. 
EDDIE I always thought you city people were more hospitable to us poor farm boys. 
The other four carousers are laughing too much to even talk. Charlie has ambled up to The Existentialist, who is peering over her hostess into the room behind her. 
CHARLIE (to The Existentialist, smiling amiably) I'm sorry, miss. A friend of ours is getting married here, and we're just horsing around. 
ARNOLD Sure. (turns to the others in living room, plants a huge smile on his face) Well, I'm getting married Sunday. 
KENNETH Having fun, Walter? 
WALTER Fun. A bunch of grown men sitting around waiting to look at college boy pictures. 
ARNOLD I swear, I never thought two months ago I was ever going to get married. I still don't know how it happened.... 
EDDIE Hey, somebody turn off the lights. 
Walter is promptly up to turn off the lights. 
CHARLIE Hey, you know, you've got a nice place here. 
The room is abruptly flooded in darkness. A beam of light shoots out from the projector. It seems pointed at the window. Arnold stands up directly in the shaft of light. 
ARNOLD I was just taking her out. I didn't know it was so serious. 
EDDIE Arnold, get out of the way, will you? 
ARNOLD Oh, sure. 
Arnold moves a step, still in the shaft of light, his shadow huge on the wall. Eddie, muttering, jockeys the projector around trying to focus it on the screen. The square of light and some flickering images wander up and down a wall. 
ARNOLD ... We're sitting in the car, so she says: "Well, Arnold, we've been going together six months now. I think it's time we decided whether we were being serious." 
WALTER Hey, Eddie, you got it on the window. 
ARNOLD I didn't know it was so serious. I didn't even know we were going together. I just took her out every now and then. 
CHARLIE Arnold, you're funny. 
EDDIE Turn on the lights again, will you, Walter. 
WALTER What's the matter? 
EDDIE I forgot to loop it over this loop thing. 
Walter crosses to light switch. The room is flooded in light again. 
CHARLIE Oh, for crying out loud. 
ARNOLD (small panic) I can't even remember what she looks like! I just saw her this afternoon! 
KENNETH Arnold, have a bottle of beer. It's not so terrible. 
ARNOLD Boy, I tell you. It's for the rest of your life when you get married. This is a big decision to make. 
WALTER Does anybody seriously want to see these movies? 
Eddie is furiously winding and unwinding spools. CAMERA HAS DOLLIED AROUND so that we are looking back up the living room toward the projector and the men. 
ARNOLD I could be making a serious mistake. 
HELEN Hiya, Julie. I was beginning to think you weren't coming. 
JULIE (coming in) I was at my mother's house. Did they call you? They said they were going to call you. 
HELEN Yeah, your mother was very sweet. 
JULIE You should have seen my father. I said, "Pa, you have another grandchild coming." So he said, "Who?" So I said, "Charlie." So he said, "That little Helen?" So I said, "If it isn't that little Helen, Charlie better leave town." So out came the beer. Well, they've been after Charlie to have a baby for a long time now. I said, "Pa, leave him alone. Let him get established before he saddles himself with a baby." Anyway, I want you to know joy reigns supreme in your in-laws' house. (she moves into the kitchen) How's Charlie taking it? 
HELEN (following her into the kitchen) Listen, let me make you a cup of tea or something. 
JULIE No, no, I've been drinking beer for the last two hours, celebrating your baby. 
HELEN Soda, anything like that? 
JULIE No, honey, you go on with your wash. Is that what you're doing? (she sits) When I had my first baby, Mike was ashamed to be seen on the streets with me. Well, listen, he was interning at the time. We needed a baby like a hole in the head. That's why he's a general practitioner now, because of that baby. He was studying to be a surgeon. He absolutely refused to admit I was pregnant. Even in my ninth month, and I was as big as a house. He used to walk ten paces in front of me in the street like he didn't know who that woman with the belly was. Where is Charlie anyway? 
HELEN I told you he-- 
JULIE Oh, yeah. I wouldn't let my Mike go on a bachelor party. 
HELEN (turning back to her wash) What are they going to do, get a little drunk? 
JULIE Are you kidding? What do you think these bachelor parties are for, bachelors? This is for the married men. It's a good excuse to get drunk and find some girls. 
HELEN Can you picture Charlie getting drunk and picking up a girl? Charlie's old sobersides. You should have seen what I went through to get him to make a pass at me. He's so sweet. Nobody knows how really sweet he is, he's so quiet all the time. My brother died in September, he used to stay up with me till three, four o'clock every night. I used to cry all night, and he used to sit on the bed and talk with me. I used to look at him talking there, and I used to think: "What would I do without this sweet man here? I'd go crazy." You know, you like to be a little cynical sometimes, Julie. 
JULIE Wait'll you've been married eleven years. 
HELEN You like to talk about all the affairs everybody's husband is having. Do you know actually one woman whose husband is actually playing around? 
An abrupt, sad expression, tinged with pain, has come over Julie's face. She looks down at the table. 
JULIE Wait'll you've been married eleven years. 
Helen, aware that she has perhaps touched on a sensitive subject, frowns and turns back to her washing. A quick, thick silence dips into the room. 
JULIE (looking down) Wait'll Charlie gets to be forty-two. My Mike's having an affair right now with one of his patients right now. We don't talk about it -- don't you, either, not even to Charlie. But Mike knows I know about it. I even know the patient. A married woman with a hyperthyroid problem. My Mike's a good doctor with a pretty good practice. The kids are crazy about him. But every now and then he has to go out and get involved with a woman. 
She looks down at her hands in her lap. 
JULIE Listen, I will take a cup of tea if you've got one. 
She stands, opens the pantry, looks around among the cans and packages for a box of tea bags. 
HELEN (quite shocked) You're kidding, aren't you? 
JULIE (finds the box of tea bags) Would I kid about something like that? 
She puts the box of tea bags an the workshelf, unhooks a saucepan hanging over the stove, turns to the sink and fills it with water. Helen regards her, not quite knowing what to say. Julie sets the saucepan going on the stove, stares at it. 
JULIE I don't know why I told you. Don't tell anybody, not even Charlie. I don't want the family to know. But this woman isn't the first one. I know that much. About three years ago, the doorbell rings. I open the door. There's a man there. He says: "Tell your husband to stay away from my sister." How would you like to open the door and have somebody say that to you? I cried for two weeks. I don't know what to do about it, Helen. Should I bring it out in the open with Mike or should I just keep my mouth shut like the other time? Because he's not going to leave me. Even if he doesn't care about me, he has his kids to think about. We married too young. That was our big mistake. We married too young. 
Her face, her whole body suddenly tightens to forestall any possibility of breaking into tears, and she sits down abruptly on the kitchen stool, her eyes clenched tight and her face rigidly impassive. Helen remains nervously silent. 
CHARLIE I don't feel like going home. Are you going? Hang around, Kennie. It's only about nine thirty, ten. 
KENNETH It's after ten. It's about ten after ten. 
Kenneth rips off a paper towel. The only noise for a moment is the soft crumpling of paper as Kenneth dries his hands. 
KENNETH The party's getting a little wild in there anyway. Eddie and Walter got poor Arnold nailed in there, they're trying to talk him into getting a girl. This party's going to wind up in a joint, let me tell you. This is a good time to blow. 
CHARLIE (frowning) Yeah.... I should have gone to class tonight. I'm paying twenty bucks a credit. The least I can do is go to class. 
He breaks off abruptly, turning away with a sudden frown. 
CHARLIE I take one night off, I can't even enjoy myself. Did you know Eddie went back to Europe? 
KENNETH No, I didn't know that. 
CHARLIE He was telling me he lived in Paris for three months. I'd like to do that! 
He ambles around the men's room, studying himself with unseeing eyes in the little mirror, poking the trash can into which Kenneth is now dropping his wadded paper towel. He suddenly turns to Kenneth, stares at him. Kenneth looks at him in mirror. 
KENNETH What's the matter? 
CHARLIE I'm going to quit. What am I killing myself for? 
KENNETH Quit what? 
CHARLIE Quit night school. Tonight was the first laughs I've had in years. I can't remember the last time I had so much fun. Look what I'm missing. I'm making a pretty good living. I can support a wife and baby on what I make. I'm going to quit! I mean it. I'm going to quit. Boy, what a time to have a baby. 
KENNETH You don't have to quit school because you're having a baby, Charlie. There are lots of guys go to night school with two, three kids. 
CHARLIE You ought to meet some of these guys. They're just grinding their lives away. It's an obsession with some of these guys. I mean, what's the point? So I'll go five more years to night school. So I'll get my degree. So I'll get a job as a junior accountant for three years at seventy-five bucks a week. I'm making better than that now. And then it just starts. The CPA exams. By the time I'm fifty, I can start living. At this point, I get a heart attack and an ulcer, and they bury me in the ground, and they say: "That was Charlie Samson, the man who didn't see a movie in fifty years." Why go through all that? I'll quit. I feel so mad right now, you better keep an eye on me, Kennie, because I'm going to wind up punching somebody. 
The door opens. Man enters to clean a spot off his tie. 
KENNETH Come on, let's go home. 
CHARLIE What do I want to go home for? 
KENNETH You're in a lousy mood. 
The man, finished with his tie, exits. 
KENNETH (after a moment) Charlie, go home. I can see you're going to get fried tonight and wind up picking up a tramp and you're going to wake up in the morning feeling like two-bits. 
CHARLIE It'd be a profit. 
KENNETH Charlie, about five years ago, I went without a job for seven months. Alice was carrying our first baby. We were living on money I borrowed from my brother. I don't know if you remember me in those days, but it was rough. I used to go out every night, put a load on, and make a pass at any girl who looked at me. And I mean any. Big, tall, short, fat, anything. Well, one night I picked up some tomato somewheres, and we were sitting in a bar or somewheres, and I kept calling her Alice all night. So she says to me: "My name ain't Alice. Who's Alice?" So I said: "Alice is my wife," and I got up and I went home. 
Charlie waits a moment for Kenneth to continue, but apparently this is all Kenneth has to offer at the moment. 
CHARLIE What does that mean? 
KENNETH I don't know. I had a point when I started telling that story. 
CHARLIE ...No, I'll stick around another hour or so.... 
EDDIE ... That's my boy.... 
ARNOLD (to Kenneth, who is looking at Charlie) ... Honestly, I never expected any presents.... 
KENNETH (to Charlie) ... Aren't you coming home? ... 
CHARLIE ... What for? Sit around talking to my sister Julie? ... 
ARNOLD (standing) ... I want to thank all you fellows ... 
EDDIE All right, stop thanking them, Arnold. They just gave you a party, they didn't elect you President. 
ARNOLD ... This has been one of the nicest nights of my life.... 
CHARLIE Let's go someplace ... let's go to a nightclub. 
EDDIE That's great with me. 
CHARLIE Come on, Ken. 
ARNOLD Thanks a lot. 
KENNETH ... Well, listen, fellows, I'm cutting out.... Good night, Walter, Eddie. (to Charlie) ... You coming, Charlie? ... 
CHARLIE ... No, I'll kill another hour.... Come on, Kennie.... 
KENNETH No, you go ahead. I'll see you in the morning, Charlie. 
CHARLIE Okay, I'll see you. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXTERIOR. THIRD STREET The little stretch of strip-joints on Third Street. Bright little cluster of honky-tonks. 
EXTERIOR. THIRD STREET Our bachelor party, now down to four carousers, ambles along the rather filled sidewalk, looking at the cardboard cutouts of the strippers in the windows of the night clubs. 
The four men pause before one of the strip-joints, examining the cardboard cutout and billboard which promises first-rate entertainment inside. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INTERIOR. THIRD STREET NIGHT CLUB We look down on the whole night club, showing the dark, dingy, crowded, smallness of it. There is a strip going on. It doesn't look very interesting. 
Our four men are huddled over a very small table in one of those Third Street clip-joints. It is a dark little hovel, but a blue stage light drifts across the table, vaguely illuminating our four celebrators. Behind them, a strip tease is in progress. Every now and then, an almost stout woman in her forties, garish in the blue spotlight, dressed in a white satin ill-fitting gown, moves in and out of our view. Half the tables and wall booths are occupied. There is a horseshoe bar off in the recesses of the club. A three- piece band is playing spiritlessly. 
Walter is gone, deep in some painful, drunken world of his own. Charlie rubs his eyes as if to keep his senses awake. Arnold, who is soggy, is leaning toward Eddie, who alone of the four men is giving any attention to the show. 
ARNOLD So what do you think of my girl, Eddie? You met her. Be honest with me. Tell me the truth. I had the feeling you didn't like her. 
EDDIE Come on, come on, Arnold. What do you want from me. 
Arnold turns to Charlie. 
Arnold's head has started to shake nervously, and he opens the door and steps out into the landing. The Woman, beginning to get angry, follows him. 
INTERIOR. LANDING Charlie looks up at the opening of the door and Arnold's entrance. The Woman stands in the doorway. Arnold moves quickly past Charlie about halfway down the landing, white- faced and trembling. 
THE WOMAN (getting a little shrill) What's the matter? Hey. Hey, you. Hey, you, what's the matter? 
CHARLIE Let's go. (to The Woman) What's the trouble? 
THE WOMAN I don't know. Ask him. What's the matter? Hey, you. You, what's the matter? 
CHARLIE Go back inside.... All right, all right. 
THE WOMAN How about that, huh? 
She turns angrily, goes back into her room (ad libbing as she crosses) and slams the door. Charlie moves down the landing to Arnold, who looks at him wide-eyed, almost in terror. 
CHARLIE What happened, Arnold? 
ARNOLD I don't know. I'm just scared. 
CHARLIE Yeah, I don't blame you, I'd be scared too like this. I don't know why we dragged you up here in the first place. It's a barbaric custom. Come on. 
He has taken Arnold's arm and would lead him down the stairs, but Arnold pauses again at the first step. 
ARNOLD Don't tell Eddie. 
CHARLIE No I won't, Arnold. 
ARNOLD Why don't we just sit here for ten minutes or so? 
Charlie frowns, then shrugs. 
CHARLIE All right, Arnold. 
They both sit slowly on the steps. Arnold is still trembling from the whole terrifying experience. 
ARNOLD Don't ever tell anybody. 
CHARLIE It's nothing to be ashamed of. 
ARNOLD Please, Charlie. 
CHARLIE I won't tell anybody. 
A man's voice suddenly calls down from an upper floor. 
MAN'S VOICE Anything wrong down there? 
CHARLIE (calling back) No. No. Nothing wrong. 
Charlie sits. CAMERA MOVES UP CLOSER to both men. The whole experience has depressed Charlie, and it shows on his face. 
CAMERA PULLS SLOWLY BACK so that we get the small, sordid feeling of the two men, somewhat tight, sitting on a dirty ill-lit staircase outside a whore's bedroom. 
CHARLIE Yeah. 
EDDIE You know what we can do? We'll take the crosstown. We'll go over to Charlie's house, he'll get some money, and we'll go to this nutty night club. It's right down on Second Avenue. You got any money home, Charlie? 
CHARLIE What do you say, Arnold? You want to go? 
Arnold shrugs. Eddie has started for the door already. Charlie wearily gets off his stool, starts to follow Eddie out. Walter takes his arm. 
EDDIE Charlie, get Walter. 
CHARLIE Come on, Walter.... 
CLOSEUP of Walter 
WALTER I'm going to die, you know what I mean? 
The sad little party files wearily out of the bar, Arnold pausing at the bar to pay for the drinks. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INTERIOR. FOURTEENTH STREET CROSSTOWN SUBWAY 
LONG SHOT looking down through the length of one almost empty car, through the open door at the end of the car, down into the next almost empty car. Just a few people riding the subway at this hour, half past eleven on a week-day. But down in the second car, we can see our four cavaliers. Eddie, Arnold, and Charlie are sitting. Our attention is most caught by Walter, who is heavily drunk and weaves and lurches up and down the central aisle of the car. We cannot hear if he is saying anything. 
CLOSE SHOT Walter weaving up and down the aisle of the car. He stumbles on the toes of a man in a windbreaker, sitting in the car. 
WALTER (mumbling) Excuse me ... excuse me ... (turns his blurred attention to Charlie, who, alone of the three, seems painfully interested in what Walter is talking about) So what'll I do? I mean, he says, I'm going to die. I mean, the man's a specialist. He says: "Go to Arizona, go to Colorado," he says. "You got to get out of New York or you're going to die." He tells my wife, the stupid idiot. My wife cried all night. I'm going to die, you know that? You understand that? I'm going to die? You know what an asthma attack is like? Your heart starts beating like a drum! I passed out the last time! 
CHARLIE (deeply compassionate) Walter, why don't you just quit the job and pack your bags and get out of here? 
Walter stands in front of Charlie, his lips moving, but no words coming out for a moment. There are tears in his eyes, and all the pain and anguish of the man's forty-eight years are clear on his face. 
WALTER (getting the words out) I can't quit. Don't you understand? You don't understand. I can't quit! I got a fourteen-year-old girl, I don't know what time she comes in at night any more. She's so wild, these kids. I got a nineteen-year-old boy in college; he's going to be a doctor if I have to die. He's not going to quit school. You hear me! I worked hard to put that kid in school! I don't care if I die! I don't care! What am I going to do in Arizona? Who wants me? Who's going to give me a job? What kind of a job am I going to get? I'm forty-eight years old. They don't want no forty-eight-year-old bookkeeper. They got machines from IBM. You ever been up on the ninth floor? You ever see all those IBM machines? What am I going to do out in Arizona? You look in the Help Wanted lately? You see any jobs listed for Bookkeeper, Male? What are you talking about? Do you know what you're talking about? 
Charlie reaches up to steady Walter, who has worked himself up into a lurching fury. 
CHARLIE Easy, Walter. 
WALTER (flinging Charlie's hand aside) Take your hand off me. You don't know nothing! You're just a kid! You don't know! I've seen death, kid. I've seen it, boy. I know what it looks like. (he staggers away a few paces down the aisle, stumbles over the man's toe again) Excuse me.... Forty-eight years old and so what? What does it mean? What happened? What have I got? What did I make? Who needs me? So this is it. A man's life, nothing. Worry about being sick, worry about making money, worry about your wife, worry about your kids, and you're on your way to the grave from the day you're born. The days drag on, and the years fly by, and so what? (cries out to the whole world) What is it all about? Will you tell me? 
The train is slowing up for a station now. 
WALTER Life is nothing! It's a gag! It's a joke! It's a mortgage! It's a bankrupt! It's a lot of noise over nothing! Sound and fury! Isn't that what the man said? What do you think, I never read a book? I read a book! Don't worry! I was a bright kid! Everybody thought I was going to be the first Catholic to be President! Where did it all go?! 
He turns to look at the station they are edging into, the yellow lights, the dark shadows, the few blurred faces. His face is wet with the tiny rivulets left by tears. 
WALTER (mumbling) Where did it all go? 
The train stops, the green doors slide open. 
EDDIE (looking out, in a low voice) Where are we, Third Avenue? 
ARNOLD (low voice) Where are we getting off? Next stop? 
CHARLIE In the back there. You can't see it from here. 
LONG SHOT of Stuyvesant Town as seen from their point of view. PAN SLOWLY ACROSS, capturing the silent monotony of the dark buildings. Only a few of the windows are still lit. 
EDDIE It looks like a state hospital. 
CHARLIE It looks like a prison. 
EDDIE Yeah, it does look a little like a prison. 
The three men just stand, worn out, tired. 
CHARLIE (suddenly) I'm going home. 
He starts to walk to the buildings, across the little street that separates the corner of Fourteenth Street and First Avenue from the parallel corner of the housing project. 
EDDIE (calling after him) Hey, Charlie ... 
Charlie turns. 
EDDIE Hey, Charlie! What about the money? Have you got ten bucks? 
CHARLIE (after a moment) All right, if you want to walk me to the house, I'll get you ten bucks. 
Eddie has to take a moment to consider this. Then he shuffles across the little street toward Charlie. Charlie doesn't quite wait for him to catch up when he turns and leads the way between two cars and up the sidewalk toward the promenade that leads to the heart of the project. Arnold, after a moment, follows Eddie. The three men disappear single-file into the darkness of Stuyvesant Town. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INTERIOR. LANDING OUTSIDE CHARLIE'S APARTMENT We are looking at the twin elevator doors. The light of an elevator climbs into the little square window of one of the elevator doors. The door opens, and Charlie, Eddie, and Arnold shuffle out into the landing. They are all a little soggy. 
CHARLIE (mutters) I'll be right out. 
He moves around the turn of the wall, fishes in his pocket for the key to his apartment. He finds it, brings it out, opens the door carefully, goes into his apartment. 
INTERIOR. CHARLIE AND HELEN'S APARTMENT Charlie comes in. The dining area is lit, and there is the lamp lit in the living room. As Charlie moves to the living room, we can see that Helen is seated on the couch, watching television. The gray-white light of the television set drifts out into the room. Helen is in her pajamas and she has washed for bed; her face is devoid of make-up. She is half-watching television; the rest of her attention is devoted to cutting her fingernails and other aspects of manicure. She looks up as Charlie comes into the living room, smiles. 
HELEN Hiya, have a nice time? 
Charlie shrugs. He is depressed and can't conceal it. 
CHARLIE I'm taking ten bucks. A couple of the guys are waiting outside. I promised them I'd loan them ten bucks. 
HELEN Sure. 
He stands by the couch now, without interest, automatically watching the television set. 
CHARLIE (looking at the set) Tomorrow's payday. I'll get it back tomorrow. 
HELEN It's in the drawer. 
A kind of ennui has engulfed him. He stands, watching the television set out of which is now pouring the end of an animated cartoon commercial. Then the familiar tinkling music sets in, the inscription, "The Late Show" appears on the screen, and the announcer's voice informs us that we are now going back to the late show, starring Rex Harrison in "Strictly Dishonorable." The whole thing brings a wince of pain to Charlie's face, and he turns and moves wearily through the little foyer into the darkened bedroom. Enough light flows in from the other rooms to show Charlie going to the drawer in the chest of drawers and taking out a ten-dollar bill. He returns the other bills, closes the drawer and just stands there, suddenly so weak and exhausted that he has to steady himself with one hand on the chest of drawers. 
Back in the living room, Helen still sits, a slight frown now indicating she is sensitive to the deeply depressed mood her husband is in. She continues with her nails for a moment. Then, wondering what is keeping her husband, she stands and goes to the bedroom doorway and looks in. 
CHARLIE I don't care what I do either. 
Helen neither moves nor makes a response. Charlie goes on into the living room and shuffles to the front door, his long body heavy with pain and guilt and dense, unknown terrors. He opens the door and goes out onto the landing. 
INTERIOR. LANDING Eddie and Arnold, looking up as the door opens and Charlie comes out. 
EDDIE What took you so long? What did you do, blow open the safe? 
CHARLIE (giving Eddie the ten-dollar bill) Here. 
EDDIE (taking it) I'll give it to you tomorrow. I'll see you in the morning, Charlie. 
CHARLIE I'll see you. 
Eddie takes Arnold's arm and guides him back around the turn of the wall to the elevators. Charlie follows a few paces behind. Eddie pushes both elevator buttons. Charlie nods, looks down at the tiling at his feet, fairly sick within himself, oppressed and guilty. The light in the elevator window shows, and Eddie opens the door. 
CHARLIE Wait a minute. I'll go with you. 
EDDIE Let's go to that party -- we'll have a ball! 
Charlie shuffles the few paces forward and follows Eddie and Arnold into the elevator. The door closes, and, a moment later, the light of the elevator cage disappears downward. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INTERIOR. GREENWICH VILLAGE DUPLEX APARTMENT This is one of those duplex apartments on West Tenth Street which consists of one huge living room that is two stories high and you need a little rolling stepladder to reach the books on the upper shelves of the built-in bookcases. There is a little wrought-iron stairway that leads to the second floor, which consists of two tiny little bedrooms. 
Apartments like these, as is the case in this one, are usually lived in by two girls, one of whom is a secretary in an advertising agency and the other a model for a garment manufacturing firm. Both girls are in their early thirties and are milling about somewhere in the mass of people in the living room, carrying drinks, laughing up a storm, pausing at the little knots of discussion groups with an apt phrase. They rather think of themselves as Madame de Stals with their own salon of bright young people, for most of the men and women at the party are in some way connected with the arts, probably in an avant garde way. It is a little difficult to tell this by looking at them because avant garde artists have become obsessed with dressing like businessmen, but if you can hear the talk as we can, you get the point fast enough. We pick up phrases like: "I really find it difficult to think of Tennessee Williams as a serious artist," or "My teacher thinks all tenors are frogs except Gigli," or "I don't see how you can say that; his designs fairly throb with sex." There are, as Eddie predicted, a number of people sitting on the floor, mostly girls, circled in the swirl of their Ann Fogarty dresses, and there is one obvious ballerina, with her black hair pulled tightly back into a severe pony tail, using the wrought-iron railing that separates the dropped living room from the small entrance foyer to demonstrate something about positions at the dancing bar. There is someone at the piano banging away, shouting his songs, but he is completely inaudible five feet away. A few people lean over the piano, apparently exhilarated by the songs. Thin blankets of smoke wreathe their way up to the two-story-high ceiling. We catch some more phrases: "I thought Truman Capote was supposed to be here." -- "Truman's in Russia, I think." -- "Good heavens, what can the Russians want with Truman Capote?" -- "Oh, I never read anything published in this country." "Oh, I mean, the paper-bound Paris edition." In short, this is a real chi-chi wingding where all the furniture is too low, and the hostess is very proud of the fact that her end table is made out of an orange crate. 
Somewhere, through the jumble of the party, we can hear the doorbell chime. A young woman, at one of the little knots of people, perks her ears and says: 
HOSTESS I'm sure that's the police again. 
She's very proud of this. She turns and weaves her way through the crowded room, carrying her drink. She goes up the step to the entrance foyer, turns to her left, picks her way over two middle-aged men who are both throwing a pitch at a fairly tight girl of eighteen, past the kitchen, which is a bedlam of ice cubes and kitchen towels and which is occupied at the moment by two intense women in their late thirties wrapped in deep discussion, up past two young men who have no immediate use for girls, to the front door of the apartment. She opens the door. 
GROUP SHOT of Eddie, Arnold, and Charlie from the Hostess's point of view. Not exactly a heartening sight to most hostesses, three fairly loaded young men with their collars unbuttoned and their ties limp and dangling. 
HOSTESS (beaming) Are you coming to complain about the noise? 
EDDIE Do we look like complainers? 
HOSTESS I don't know who you are, but come in, come in. I don't know half the people who are here tonight. 
They enter a little warily and ill-at-ease, peering into the jammed room. 
HOSTESS The police have been here twice. The first fellow was just adorable. We gave him a drink, and he's upstairs in a bedroom now, for all I know. 
EDDIE Is that right? 
HOSTESS If you want something to drink, you'll just have to go into the kitchen and get it yourself. The place is just mad. Do you write, paint or sing? 
Eddie spreads his arms in all-inclusive expansiveness. 
EDDIE Everything. 
CHARLIE Hey Arnold-- You okay, Arnold? 
Arnold makes no answer. Charlie regards his prostrated friend expressionlessly for a moment. Then turns and shuffles aimlessly back to the group around the piano in the living room. He looks over to the stairway again. The Existentialist is alone now, The Landlord having gone for the moment. She is looking at Charlie, and he drops his eyes. He turns away from the piano and moves out a few steps into the middle of the living room. He moves to the stairway. The Existentialist looks up at him as he approaches, Charlie kind of nods to her, and, for a moment, she just sits and he just stands. Then ... 
THE EXISTENTIALIST That old man I was talking to before? That's my landlord. About ten thirty last night, someone began pounding on my door. So I got up and opened the door, and there was this white-haired man with  a pince-nez standing there. I said: "What do you want?" So he said: "I'm the landlord, and I want the rent." Well, I just looked at him because the landlord I knew was a Hungarian man named Frank, who was crazy about me, and the issue of rent never came up, you see. Well, it turned out that this man with the pince-nez had just bought the building the day before and he kept grabbing my arm and saying he wanted the rent. Well, then I got the point, of course. Well, meanwhile, a boy named Bob I knew had come over. He's engaged to a Javanese girl with wonderful planes in her face who lives at the International House. But he's crazy about me and he drops in about twice a week. Well, meanwhile, my new landlord was grabbing my arm and kept quoting poetry to me which he was trying to pass off as his own. He was an absolute fraud. He scotched the whole thing from Baudelaire. "Tu mettrais." You know that one. Well, he kept screaming about the rent -- I didn't like him, you know -- and I called this boy named George who used to live in Poughkeepsie when I was going to Vassar, and he's crazy about me. He lives in St. Luke's place now, but he goes to Poughkeepsie every Wednesday to see his mother, he's got an Oedipus, so that was out. Well, my new landlord kept telling me how much he was in love with me. I said: "How existentialist can you get? You just met me five minutes ago." He was absolutely crazy about me. 
Charlie has been sort of half-listening to all this. His attention, if any at all, has been vaguely given to the girl's bare arms, the lines of her body. 
CHARLIE (resigned) You have an apartment around here somewheres? (looks up to second floor) What's up there? What kind of rooms are up there? 
THE EXISTENTIALIST So, I finally got to sleep around six thirty.... 
Charlie bends down to her, takes her arm. 
CHARLIE Come on, let's go. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST (wrenching her arm away) No! Oh, stop trying to be so primitive. 
Charlie straightens with an irritated sigh. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST I find you very unpleasant. 
He stands, she sits in sullen silence. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST There's nothing upstairs. (suddenly rises, mumbles) Oh, I don't care. 
She starts up the stairs, Charlie following close behind her. They pick their way past the other people sitting on the stairs to the second-floor landing. They walk in hostile silence down the landing to the bedroom door, which she opens. 
INTERIOR. THE BEDROOM It is a tiny bedroom. The bed is covered with purses and summer stoles and other guest things. An uncovered, improvised closet, really a rack of hanging dresses and things, gives the room an overburdened look. Charlie comes into the room after her, closes the door, looks for the latch. She pushes some of the things on the bed aside and sits down and waits while Charlie latches the door, a matter of turning a bent nail into locking position. She begins to prattle again. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST So I finally got to sleep around six thirty this morning. At nine thirty, someone began pounding on my door again. I got out of bed and opened the door, and there was my landlord with the pince-nez wearing a blue silk kimono. "Oh, for heaven's sakes," I said, "what do you want now?" He said: "I'm the landlord, and I want the rent." I said: "You're an old man, go to sleep." Then the phone rang. It was a boy named Andrew I know who teaches physics at Columbia University, and he's insanely jealous. He's married and has four children, but he keeps badgering me to run away with him to Nicaragua, throw up his professorship and all that. Well, my landlord began shouting some garbled Baudelaire at the top of his lungs, and a little Verlaine, and a little Huysmans. He apparently has some kind of fetish about French decadents. And naturally, Andrew heard him, and he got furious, and he said: "Who's that I hear?" I said, "That's the landlord." He said: "What does he want?" I said: "He wants the rent." Well, at this point, I felt like chucking the whole business and going back to Bessemer City and going to work in my father's hardware store. 
Charlie has stood a moment, listening to this bizarre story. Then he has busied himself cleaning a place beside The Existentialist on the bed. He brings an end to the rococo narration by putting his arms around The Existentialist and in a moment, she responds hungrily. 
CLOSEUP of Charlie and The Existentialist in a desperate embrace. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST (muttering) Just say you love me. 
CHARLIE What? 
THE EXISTENTIALIST Just say you love me. You don't have to mean it. 
He tries to kiss her again, himself charged high at the moment, but she turns her face away from him. The dialogue is intense, whispered, hungry. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST No, don't. ... 
CHARLIE What's the matter? 
THE EXISTENTIALIST Say you love me.... 
CHARLIE Come on. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST Say you love me.... 
CHARLIE Yeah. I guess so. 
ARNOLD (stiff with liquor) Eddie -- Eddie. So what do you think, Eddie? You think I ought to go through with this marriage? 
EDDIE I don't know about you, Arnold, but if it was me, boy, I'd be in China by now. (back to Charlie) Who have the Yankees got on first? Skowron. Boy, how they touted Skowron. All right, he's having a lucky year. 
CHARLIE Yeah.... 
EDDIE (continuing) ... Well, I mean, is there any argument? Hodges is the best first baseman in both leagues.... 
ARNOLD So, Eddie, what do you think? You think I ought to marry her, go to China, or what? 
EDDIE Arnold, if it bothers you so much, call her up and tell her to forget the whole deal. (back to Charlie) All right Hodges is having a bad year -- but how about last year? He hit over .300. He only hit thirty- five homers and he drove in over a hundred runs---- 
ARNOLD So, Eddie... 
EDDIE Arnold! Get rid of her! You're driving me crazy! 
Arnold lowers his head, and he rises, loses his precarious balance and moves backward a few lurching steps. 
EDDIE (continuing) All right, who's on second? We got Charlie Neal or Gilliam, for that matter, and this isn't even counting Jackie Robinson, head and shoulders, even with a trick knee, the best second baseman in both leagues if they'd let him play there. We got three guys, for Pete's sake, who can outplay anybody the Yankees put on second. 
Arnold weaves slowly up the bar to the two phone booths at the far end of the counter. Then walks out of shot. 
EDDIE (continuing) Ever see Charlie Neal go to his right? That Yankee guy, what's his name -- he can't go to his right. And don't forget Neal gets a lot of bases on balls, and once he's on the bases, man, it unnerves the pitcher ... 
The bartender decides to take issue. 
BARTENDER What's Brooklyn going to do for pitching? 
EDDIE Never heard of Newcombe? Never heard of Erskine? 
BARTENDER What have you got to compare with Ford, Kucks, McDermott, Turley--- 
EDDIE McDermott -- McDermott hasn't pitched a full game since last year. 
BARTENDER The best relief pitcher in both leagues. 
EDDIE What's the matter with Eddie Roebuck? 
BARTENDER How do you compare Eddie Roebuck with McDermott? 
EDDIE What are you, a Yankee fan? 
BARTENDER Yeah. 
EDDIE Well, drop dead. (turns angrily back to Charlie) A Yankee fan. 
There is a sudden bellow off. 
ARNOLD'S VOICE Hey! 
Eddie and Charlie slowly turn to look in Arnold's direction. CAMERA PANS to see Arnold from their point of view, a wavering, drunken young man standing in front of the phone booths. 
EDDIE (spiritlessly) Hey, honey, what are you, a Yankee fan or a Dodger fan? 
The Bar Hag slowly turns to regard him over the rim of her glasses. 
BAR HAG Hiya. 
Bleakly, Eddie shuffles slowly down the long length of the bar to where the battered old woman sits. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXTERIOR. THE BAR -- NIGHT 
HIGH ANGLE SHOT looking down on the sidewalk immediately outside the bar Arnold and Charlie have just come out of. There is a house with a small stoop, and Arnold is standing slumped by the stoop, holding himself up by the iron railing. He is being sick, quietly retching. Charlie is standing a few paces away from him in the middle of the sidewalk, a deeply unhappy figure in his own right. From our angle, we may or may not be able to tell that Charlie is crying. 
CLOSE SHOT of Charlie standing in the middle of the sidewalk of Sixth Avenue and Tenth Street, the whole dark world around him, silent and empty. He is crying quietly, unashamedly, his shoulders shaking ever so little.  Behind him, Arnold is bent over the railing of the stoop, weak and spent. 
ANOTHER SHOT of the two men. Charlie stops crying, sighs, and starts toward Arnold. 
CHARLIE (gently) Are you all right, Arnold? 
Arnold nods weakly. Charlie gets out a handkerchief and gives it to Arnold who begins to weakly clean his chin and spots on his suit. 
CHARLIE Would you like to go back in and sit down? 
Arnold shakes his head weakly "no." 
CHARLIE What subway do you take, Arnold, the BMT? Can you make it? 
Arnold nods weakly. Charlie puts his arm supportively around his friend's back, but Arnold makes no move yet, being thoroughly drained. 
CHARLIE Come on, Arnold, I'll take you home. 
There is a clicking of high heels on concrete pavement, and Charlie looks up. The Existentialist has just come out of the party several houses down and has come up a few steps and is standing watching them. She has her bag and her light summer stole. She nods to Charlie, sort of smiles, moves a few steps closer to them. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST Is he all right? 
CHARLIE (nods) Yeah, he's all right. Look, I've got to take my friend home... 
The two men start slowly down the street to the corner. Arnold leaning heavily on his friend. The Existentialist stands, watching them a moment. 
THE EXISTENTIALIST (calling lightly) Are you coming back? Where does he live? How long will you be? 
REVERSE SHOT Charlie and Arnold just about getting to the corner. Charlie hasn't heard her. 
FULL SHOT of The Existentialist watching them disappear around the corner. Then she turns, and, wetting her lips, she hurries back to the house where the party is. 
INTERIOR. BMT SUBWAY -- HURTLING NORTHWARD Half past three, and the car is absolutely empty except for Charlie and Arnold. Arnold is sprawled across the straw seat, one leg buckled beneath him, the other on the floor. He is sleeping heavily. Charlie sits expressionlessly, obviously involved in deep introspection. The car buckets along into the night. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INTERIOR. QUEENS APARTMENT HOUSE Arnold and Charlie coming up to a landing. It is the third floor; we can see enough of the corridor to see two apartment doors, lettered "3D" and "3C." A small overhead bulb provides a thin sketchy light. Charlie and Arnold shuffle down the landing to apartment 3D. They pause outside the door. The scene is played in low mutters and whispers. 
ARNOLD Well, thanks a lot, Charlie. 
