"BACKDRAFT" 
Screenplay by 
Gregory Widen 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
INT. FIRE STATION 17 - STORAGE ROOM - 20 YRS. EARLIER 
Darkness. Then the GLINT of a flashlight. Its beam rocks crazily to and fro across the inside of a small storage room as we hear two children arguing. 
OLDER KID You're doing it wrong. 
YOUNGER KID Shut up. 
OLDER KID You're doing it wrong. 
It's hard, but we get a sense of the room in the whipping beam of light. Huge, dark coats lined up like sides of beef on steel batons. Bent, stained helmets hung like African masks. 
Beneath them BRIAN, 7, and STEPHEN, 12, are trying to struggle into a pair of the ludicrously massive coats over their pajamas. 
STEPHEN It doesn't go like that. 
BRIAN Who asked you? 
STEPHEN If you do it like that it'll open in the fire. Then you'll get burned and DIE. 
The door suddenly opens, morning sunlight roaring in. It's a fire station storage room full of fire gear. A fireman stands in the doorway, tall, athletic, their father; DENNIS McCAFFREY. 
DENNIS Who's going to die? 
STEPHEN Brian. He's not doing it right, dad. He never does it right. 
DENNIS (gestures for them to come out) Well, let's have a look. 
INT. FIRE STATION 17 - DAY 
The two boys tromp out of the closet. The rubber turn-out boots are as high as their thighs. The ends of the coats drag on the floor. They salute, Brian's arm just an empty sleeve. Dennis kneels down and re-fastens Brian's coat. 
DENNIS Your brother's right. If you don't fasten these correctly they could open and you'd get burned. 
STEPHEN And DIE! 
BRIAN You wouldn't let me die, would you, Dad? 
DENNIS McCaffreys are smarter than fire, Brian. (playfully slaps their shoulders) How 'bout lunch, huh? 
STEPHEN Fireman shit? 
DENNIS Hey, what's with the mouth? Where'd you grow up, a barn? 
STEPHEN Firehouse. 
DENNIS Cute. 
-- The station suddenly fills with the BELLOW of an ALARM KLAXON. 
DENNIS (sighs) Never fails... 
A young fireman, ADCOX, appears with the dispatch card. 
DENNIS Big deal? 
AXE Medium deal. 
DENNIS Want to come along, Brian? Watch the old man earn his keep? 
STEPHEN (pissed) Dad! 
DENNIS You've come along a dozen times, Stephen, give your brother a chance. We'll be back in a few minutes. (to Brian) How 'bout it, sport? 
BRIAN Sure! 
Dennis scoops Brian up and loads him into the fire engine cab. The other three firemen climb aboard and take their places. 
EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - DAY 
There's a cough of diesel, a crunch of gears, and the engine is pulling out of the station. 
DENNIS Hit the button, Brian. 
Brian stamps his foot on the siren button. The red light snaps on, the siren growls and blares, and they're off down the street. Brian turns around in his seat and, at the last instant before the corner, makes eye contact with his older brother. 
They stick their tongues out. 
EXT. CHICAGO STREET - DAY - 20 YRS. EARLIER 
The engine howls its way through the city. Brian, sandwiched between his father and Adcox, looks out in wonderment at intersections zipping past like picket fences, at people on sidewalks holding hands over their ears, at the red emergency lights bouncing crazily off shop windows. 
EXT. BUILDING - DAY - 20 YRS. EARLIER 
CHIEF FITZGERALD Sorry, but it's out of my hands. Try again next year. 
BRIAN No, it isn't out of your hands or you wouldn't even have met me. If I push you have to let me back in. Dead Hero Father Rule. Sir. 
CHIEF FITZGERALD (simmers) Even if you graduate this academy, you've still got nine months of probation. That's hard duty, son. If you don't really love this job, it'll kill you. 
BRIAN (rises) See you Monday. Sir. 
As we hear the BLOW OF A WHISTLE 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CHICAGO FIRE DEPT. TRAINING ACADEMY - GRADUATION DAY 
And everybody lined up at attention in dress blues. 
CHIEF FITZGERALD (at podium) Though the world changes every day, some things are truly forever: Courage, devotion, and honor in what we do. This class is a special one, for we dedicate it to the three firefighters that have fallen this year: Donald Knowlton, Richard Walter and Michael Petzold... (silent beat) Ladies and gentlemen, it is with pleasure that I certify that Candidate Class number 322, having successfully completed all academy requirements, are hereby graduated to the Chicago Fire Department. 
Candidates and their relatives CHEER and leap to their feet. Something struggles inside of Brian. He doesn't stand at first. Another Candidate, TIM, 20, looks at him strangely. So does the Academy Chief, his eyes finding Brian's. And Brian's standing slowly now, joining them... 
EXT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT 
An expensive one. We hear a window BREAK. 
INT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT 
Through the dimness a file cabinet. An AXE SUDDENLY SLAMS into it, RIPPING it apart. Files crash to the floor. And a picture. 1970. Four young guys marlin fishing. Time of their lives. 
INT. BROWNSTONE BEDROOM - NIGHT 
And a GREY PUTTY being SLAPPED along the edges of a door. 
INT. PUB - NIGHT 
A split-level firemen's dive; complete with mounted axes and personalized T-shirts from various engine companies proudly declaring "LADDER CO. 6 -- AXE FIRST, HOSE LATER" and "CHICAGO FD, 150 YEARS OF TRADITION UNIMPEDED BY PROGRESS". 
Tonight the place is firmly in the hands of an army of recently graduated candidates. A few on the back patio have hooked up a charged hoseline and are taking potshots at balloon targets, each other, the neighbor's cat. Brian and Tim, still in their uniforms, enter from the street. Survey the scene. 
BRIAN Completely out of control. 
TIM What the hell are we waiting for? 
As they shoulder their way inside, another CANDIDATE appears holding proudly a fistful of sealed envelopes. 
CANDIDATE Hot off the presses, guys. Station assignments. 
Tim and everyone else but Brian eagerly tear into them. Brian nonchalantly shoulders up to the bar. 
BRIAN A beer, Willy! 
The barkeep turns and smiles. 
WILLY Well, if it isn't the littlest McCaffrey. (to candidates with hose) Hey! You break anything with that you buy it! (to Brian) Sorry, there must be something wrong with my eyes. I keep thinking that's a fire department uniform. 
BRIAN It's in my blood, Willy. 
The candidates are ripping open their assignments, exclaiming to each other: "All right! Engine 117! That's a slum! They get cookers every day!". "Oh no, Engine 10, that's a nice neighborhood"... 
Willy turns to the bulletin board behind him and unpins a stack of business cards. 
WILLY Really. Well, let's have a look at what else was "in your blood". I always look forward to getting these, they make such a nice collage for the bar... "Assistant Director, Sales, Aspen Snowmobile Tours..." 
BRIAN Didn't offer the kinda growth and challenge I need. 
WILLY Uh huh. And "Pioneer's Pride, Mobile Log Cabins". That was in your blood about six months wasn't it? 
BRIAN Management were pin heads. 
WILLY "Laguna Jamming, Custom Surfboards"? 
BRIAN Coffee sucked. 
WILLY And just this year, "Brian's Sound Spectrum". Your own company even. Big step. 
BRIAN I was ahead of my time. 
WILLY You know, I've got a perfect little spot here for "Brian McCaffrey, Fireman"... 
Tim holds an envelope marked McCAFFREY out to Brian. 
TIM Aren't you even curious? 
BRIAN Engine 115, right? 
TIM (opens it, surprised) How'd you know? These are supposed to be sealed. 
BRIAN Lucky guess. (winks) And a case of scotch to a captain in station assignments. 
TIM You crooked son of a bitch. Why 115? 
BRIAN Lots of fires. They promote faster there. Take a look at the last Lt.'s list, half the guys on it came from that battalion. Gotta think about your future, Timmy. 115's the station. 
TIM What'cha got? 
DRIVER Box alarm. Walton Ave. 
TIM We'll meet ya. 
EXT. BROWNSTONE - WALTON AVENUE - NIGHT 
As Brian and Tim pull up two engine companies are already dragging lines toward the rolling brownstone we saw explode earlier. Tim cheers the firemen on like a drive-in movie. 
Brian watches the fire with uneasy fascination. Embers whipping into the night, drifting to the ground around him. 
One of the engine companies is entering the doorway now. He watches as they willingly crawl into a place any sane person would run for their life from. Jesus Christ. FLASH -- Brian turns at the blinding snap of a camera. Several locals are gathered around a parked car, some taking pictures. Brian notices that right away. It takes a beat longer to notice the CHARRED CORPSE stuffed head-first through the windshield. It's the Porsche driver, his legs sticking out at crazy angles. A dog barks furiously at it. 
TIM (also looking at body) Man. Something sure put a crimp in his evening. 
BRIAN Backdraft. 
The brownstone fire quickly transforms itself into noisy clouds of dirty white steam. And one of the firemen is coming back out now, walking toward Brian. 
When he's just a few yards away he pulls off his air mask and helmet and we shudder with Brian, because the man is a dead ringer for HIS FATHER. 
STEPHEN Well, look what we have here. Nice costume. Rent it? 
BRIAN I want to thank you for coming to my graduation, Stephen. It was a great inspiration to me. 
STEPHEN So you're going to fight fires now, huh? 
He pats Brian's cheeks, leaving behind large charcoal smears. 
STEPHEN (re smears) Doesn't work on you. (turns to leave) See ya around, little brother. 
BRIAN Not likely. 
STEPHEN (turns) Well, see you're wrong already. Had a talk with Chief Fitzgerald, and we decided in the interest of brotherly love, that maybe you shouldn't be way over on the other side of town. So starting tomorrow, your assigned to company 17. My company. (Brian's color drops a hue) One case of scotch, you're getting cheap in your old age, Brian... 
And Stephen turns for his own men, Tim staring at Brian as clouds of smoke drift past like ghosts. 
EXT. BROWNSTONE - ACROSS THE STREET - NIGHT 
A flame LEAPS up into the foreground. Touches a cigarette. The cigarette glows, lingers, then lowers slowly from the mouth of RIMGALE, fifty-five years old and six and a half feet of solid granite. Wearing a windbreaker and grey slacks tucked into fire department rubber boots, he takes another slow drag. Looks at the body stuffed into the windshield. It's twenty yards away from the brownstone. Stephen looks up as Rimgale drops the cigarette, crushes it with his boot, and crosses the street to the building. 
INT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT 
Charred walls hiss and snap in the steamy darkness. Rimgale is there, gloomy in the beam of his flashlight. He crouches down, plays his flashlight along the ruined baseboard. 
SHADOW If you stare any longer Stevie, I'll start charging you admission. 
Stephen is leaning in the doorway, watching him. 
STEPHEN Got a cause? 
SHADOW Are the glory boys actually showing interest in Investigation's work? I may have a stroke. 
STEPHEN The glory boys just want to finish their report so they can go home. 
Rimgale's flashlight finds a wall socket that he pries loose and holds up to the light. He lowers it, takes in the walls, the room. 
SHADOW They're gonna have to wait a few days on this one. 
EXT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT 
Tim's talking to his cousin. Brian hangs back, watches the body-bag people load the Porsche driver into a meat wagon. There's a still an audience for this, still stray dogs circling and barking. Brian walks up, looks inside the car, and sees on a seat the ragged remains of a FINGER. 
BRIAN (to coroner crew) Hey, you forgot... this. 
They're already climbing into the wagon. The driver smiles creepily. 
CORONER DRIVER We always leave something for the dogs. 
Brian looks across the fireground, sees his brother walking back to the fire engine. They share a brief, edgy glance. 
EXT. HOUSE - DAY 
A modest one. South-side Irish old fashioned. Brian walks up. There's a little kid, about five, playing with a toy fire truck on the drive. 
BRIAN Hey, Sean. What's goin' on, man? 
The kid stares at him without a glimmer of recognition. 
BRIAN It's Uncle Brian. Y'know. 
He makes his hand into a talking puppet. 
BRIAN (bandito accent) "Spinach? We don't need no stinking spinach". Remember? 
The kid drops his toy truck and flees inside. 
KID Mom! Mom! 
INT. HELEN'S HOUSE 
INT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - DAY 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - DAY 
Brian opens the trunk of his old BMW. It's full of stereo boxes marked BRIAN'S "SOUND SPECTRUM". 
INT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - CABIN - DAY 
Brian's gutted the speakers and is re-wiring them. 
STEPHEN People actually used to pay you for this? 
BRIAN Millions, Stephen -- And sexual favors. 
STEPHEN Sheep don't count. 
BRIAN Yeah? What about Laura -- 
STEPHEN That was never proved. 
Brian moves over to another speaker. 
STEPHEN Why'd you come here, Brian? 
BRIAN I wanted to know why you messed with my station assignment. I mean, is this really gonna have to one of those big brother -- little brother "you broke my GI Joe and I'm still pissed" games? 
STEPHEN (sighs) What is it with you, man, huh? How do you manage to keep coming up with new and amazing ways to screw up? That scotch bullshit? Am I really supposed to believe you came crawling back home because you suddenly felt heart strings moan for the family biz? You were bankrupt, man. 
BRIAN Hey! You don't know me -- 
STEPHEN I know you cold, Brian. The scary thing is, you probably could have faked it for awhile. But you see, in this job there's no place to hide. Isn't like selling log cabins. You have a bad day here -- someone dies. And that's not fucking good enough. Want another beer? 
BRIAN So that's it? Big bad brother's gonna ride my ass till I cough blood? 
STEPHEN Big bad brother is going to treat you like any other probie -- that I don't think is going to make it. 
Brian staples the last of the audio cord in place and switches on the tape player. The cabin fills with sharp, crystal clear -- Stephen Bishop. 
BRIAN There's only so much technology can do. (picks up his tool box) Thanks for the beer. 
STEPHEN Thanks for the speakers. 
EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - DAY 
Brian climbs down off the boat. Looks up at Stephen. 
BRIAN Y'know, I told myself a million times I didn't want to be a fireman. I said bullshit to that line about tradition and family legacy. I know I split, and I know how you felt... 
STEPHEN Yeah, you know. You know what it felt like. 
BRIAN I gotta do this, Stephen. I gotta know. 
STEPHEN I think you're gonna find out, Brian. Don't be late tomorrow. 
INT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - MORNING 
A simple one-room walk-up. A stereo blares Chicago blues as Brian buttons up his uniform in the mirror. He steps back, looks at himself, -- and oh man what the hell am I doing... 
EXT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - STREET - MORNING 
Brian climbs into his car, turns the key -- nothing. He gets out, looks under the hood, then SLAMS it down in frustration. 
INT. ELEVATED TRAIN - MORNING 
A pissed-off Chicago, hauling itself off to work in the morning snap, passes by Brian's window. Tough Midwestern brick. Tough Midwesterners. Heads-down in their 150 year war with a wind committed to pushing the whole damn thing into Lake Michigan. 
EXT. EL STATION - MORNING 
The train clacking away above him, Brian walks down the sidewalk carrying his fire equipment. He turns a corner and comes on. 
EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - MORNING 
Brian stands there. It's his dad's station. Turn of the century abused. Sooty with stone gargoyles and a pair of faded red doors that suddenly CRANK OPEN as Brian comes up the drive. Fire engine 17 and ladder truck 46, lights flashing, pull out onto the apron. 
The fireman sticking his head out of the passenger window is Stephen. One look at the silver trumpet on his collar and we know this isn't Fireman McCaffrey but Fire LT. McCaffrey. 
STEPHEN You're too late, probie. 
Tim, in ladder truck 46, waves a small bye-bye as both rigs begin heading down the street. 
BRIAN (chasing) Goddamn it, Stephen... 
Brian bolts full-out for the engine. At the last instant before he falls on his face a fireman reaches out and drags him aboard. 
INT./EXT. FIRE ENGINE 17 - DAY 
It's Adcox, the fireman from the first scene, now a veteran. 
AXE Why baby McCaffrey, how ya doin'? 
begin HACKING their way toward Brian's company as -- BOOM! It's a sudden, shattering vibration that shakes the building to its foundations. Then, a sucking sound: RUSH-RUSH-RUSH... Stephen speaks calmly into his radio handset. 
STEPHEN Hey Otis, is it...? 
SCHMIDT (into radio) Yeah. 
STEPHEN Goddamn it, where's our backup? Where's the second-in companies? 
SCHMIDT'S VOICE Sorry, man. John Wayne time. 
STEPHEN (to firemen) Dig in! 
The firemen hesitate. PENGELLY, the Truck Company Lt., looks at Stephen with concern. 
STEPHEN Dig in, goddamn it! 
The crews immediately gather in the center of the floor. They turn over tables, chairs, anything to form a barrier. A circling of the wagons. -- BOOM! rush-rush-rush -- BOOM! Each louder than the last. Stephen and Brian are ducked behind an overturned desk. Adcox and Krizminski clutch hoselines like frontiersmen's Winchesters. 
STEPHEN You're gonna love this. 
-- rush-rush-rush -- CRAAAASH!! On an instant the world comes apart as all four walls of factory windows EXPLODE in a hail of glass. A wave of HOWLING FLAME POURS IN after it, SHRIEKING and HISSING. 
At the same moment, part of the floor beside a heavy sewing machine GIVES WAY and a ladderman, SANTOS, FALLS THROUGH, grabbing the edges at the last minute as flames BELLOW UP from underneath. He SCREAMS as his grip loosens. 
Grindle leaps to the ladderman's side, grabbing his arms and coat. Brian hesitates just an instant and Stephen SHOVES him out of the way to back up Grindle. 
SANTOS Help... Oh God... 
Adcox's taken the hoseline and is opening fire. Water and flame crash and snarl across the floor in a blood curdling ROAR. It's a thrashing, murderous standoff. 
Stephen and Grindle have got Santos but the angle's bad. Blow it now and all three could take a header. Santos is panicking, losing his grip. Grindle bores his eyes into the man's with the calm and conviction of Moses. 
GRINDLE You go, we go. 
They may all die, but they won't leave him. He calms a little, hangs on till they PULL him out of harm's way. Adcox continues with the hose as suddenly, everyone HITS the deck as the fire EXPLODES over them, BURSTING their coats into flame. Tim's company opens up their line, WASHING everybody down before CHARGING after the fire. A ladderman, NIGHTENGALE, steps on Brian's back. 
BRIAN Hey! 
NIGHTENGALE Sorry man, I thought you were dead. 
Brian, stunned, sits up, his coat and helmet smoking. Stephen seems totally unaffected and is already on his feet and over the top of the barricade, the others backing him as he mercilessly drives the fire back, trapping it finally into a corner. The fire hisses, spits, shakes the walls with its furious anger. But it's all bluster now, the fire's dying. 
PENGELLY (ladder co. captain) Stephen! BC's on the radio. Says they think a civilian got left behind downstairs. 
STEPHEN Adcox! Take Tim and do a search. 
Adcox leads Tim downstairs. Brian looks shaken up. Stephen helps him roughly to his feet. 
STEPHEN Don't you fold on me now, man. 
Brian burns at that and shakes his brother's arm off. 
STEPHEN Clear the hose for me. 
Brian's walking over to clear the hoseline when he hears it. small voice. Faint. "Help me..." 
BRIAN Hey, I think it's coming from a different staircase. 
Nobody hears. -- Brian takes off down the other steps on his own. 
INT. BURNING FACTORY - DOWNSTAIRS 
It's only the fire's ghost here, lazy and slow. 
Off the corridor are rooms full of commercial sewing machines. Brian enters one and drops to his knees. 
Looks under a table, flashes his light behind a work stand. Nothing. He turns to backtrack his way out when A TONGUE OF FLAME suddenly LEAPS up through the floor in front of him, cutting off the door. Brian lands on his ass as it hisses and giggles and dances unreally in front of him. 
I never forget a face, kid. -- That fire from childhood. He could maybe force his way through but Jesus, the way it looks at him -- 
-- Brian ROLLS away from it. Looks for another doorway -- And ends up in thick smoke. He drops to a crawl, stays on his belly where the air's clear. When he sees it. Behind some furniture. Something flesh-colored. Shit. It's a body. He crawls up closer. It's a woman. Adrenalin pounding the top of his skull off, he grabs her and stumbles back down the hall, makes a turn -- 
BRIAN I got one! 
EXT. FACTORY - DAY 
-- And now he's bursting from the building onto a short fire escape, shouting at the top of his lungs. 
BRIAN I got somebody! I got somebody! 
A sea of media flashbulbs ERUPTS in his face. The press have arrived in force, crowding the street. Brian pushes through them to a clear spot on the far side of the engine. Two fire paramedics rush over as he lowers the figure. 
BRIAN Is she... Is she alive? 
The paramedics suddenly stop their efforts. Turn to Brian. 
PARAMEDIC I'm afraid you're a little too late with this one. 
They step aside. Brian looks down. The woman looks strange. Mostly because she's a heavy store DRESSING DUMMY. The paramedics burst into laughter. Brian, looking pale and shaken, turns and walks away. He passes Grindle and Tim, sitting on the pumper's tailboard helping the REAL woman that was found inside. 
GRINDLE Sorry to hear about the mannequin. I heard you two were close. 
Swayzak's leaning on it. We sense the dislike between them. Swayzak steps aside. Rimgale pops the trunk. 
SHADOW Awful expensive shoes to be wearing at a fireground, Alderman. But then I guess you haven't been to too many fires. 
JENNIFER I wanted to talk to you about Alan Seagrave's death. We still haven't gotten a fire report from your office. 
SHADOW You'll have an answer as soon as I do. 
SWAYZAK People are asking how a prominent taxpayer got stuffed through the windshield of his own car. They're asking me. 
JENNIFER --The point is, Investigator, you haven't even told us yet if the fire was accidental. We're starting to get the feeling your office is dragging out this case to embarrass the Alderman because of his fire dept. reorganization program -- 
SHADOW -- You mean his firehouse closing program, -- Don't you? 
JENNIFER We'd just be very disappointed if it turned out your office was playing politics. 
SWAYZAK -- Because I'm not. I care about this city, and I care about this department -- 
Rimgale cuts him off with the shutting of his trunk lid. 
SHADOW (calm of a monk) Alderman, I have a remarkably uncomplicated job. To decide if a fire's arson, and if so catch the pain in the ass doing it. But to be honest, if my methodical investigative methods just happen to muck up the campaign of certain mayor wanna-bees, well, I guess I can't say I sleep any less peacefully. 
And he walks back to the burned building. 
SWAYZAK I wish I could just fire the son of a bitch. 
STEPHEN Hey! Swayzak! 
Stephen's leaning out of an upstairs window. As the TV cameras turn, he drops down onto a fire engine hose bed and pops right into Swayzak's face with a murderous grin. 
STEPHEN We almost lost a whole company up there, Swayzee buddy. Isn't any back- up since you closed '33. And we really appreciate it, the guys and me. Honest. I know you've got my vote for mayor. 
Grindle and Santos start walking for Stephen. Brian's there, following after them. 
SWAYZAK Look Lt., I'm on your side. If there's a problem, please, work with our task force to fix it. 
STEPHEN Oh yeah, your famous task force... three guys have already died this year because of the cuts made by your "task force"... 
GRINDLE Stevie, c'mon man... 
Stephen silences Grindle with an outstretched hand. Swayzak leans close, out of earshot of the cameras. 
SWAYZAK You see that funny glow that's starting to blink in the corner of your eye, Lt? That's your career dissipation light -- and it just went into overtime. 
STEPHEN If anybody's light's gonna blink, it's yours. 
Swayzak holds his ground. It's a tense, out of control moment between them. Rimgale turns from his work, watches Stephen with concern. Adcox suddenly inserts himself face-to-face with Swayzak and we see the raw hatred. 
AXE You're in firemanland now, Swayzak. Do yourself a favor and just walk away. 
Swayzak holds Adcox's gaze, then turns for his car. Brian watches Jennifer climb in beside her boss. 
BRIAN This is your city job? 
Jennifer shrugs as they pull away. 
INT./EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - LATE DAY 
Brian jumps down from the rig as it backs up the driveway. Across the street a middle-aged woman flashes them from the balcony of her apartment. 
AXE That's Franny. She likes firemen. 
STEPHEN Tim, fill out the alarm card. (to Brian) Clean the pipe poles, wipe down the ladders and hang some hose. 
Adcox watches Brian and Tim exchange looks. Tim shrugs. Brian sighs and pulls out the pike poles, starts across the floor before freezing suddenly at a murderous GROWL. Brian turns and sees a DOG. Sort of. It has the rib cage of a wild beast, fangs, long greasy hair. It blocks his way, SNARLING with hate. 
GRINDLE That's The Thing. You can't stay unless he likes you. 
Slobber drools out of its mouth as it GROWLS. 
BRIAN Have you guys got something against dalmatians? 
Brian wipes some of the crusted grime from his face, looks back and forth between Franny and The Thing, and sighs. 
INT. FIRE STATION 17 - BUNKROOM 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
INT. FIRE STATION 17 - LOCKER ROOM 
Brian enters, strips down his battered uniform, and opens his locker. The mannequin from the fire SPRINGS OUT, legs spread. A sign taped to its mouth says: "TAKE ME BRIAN, YOU'RE MY SUPERMAN!" 
INT. FIRE STATION 17 - WASHROOM 
Brian and the others scrub the morning's fire off their bodies in the station shower. Tim keeps filling his mouth full of water and launching it upward in a stream. 
BRIAN Do you have to do that? 
TIM (pumped) Could you believe that fire? Man! First day! There I was, Adcox and me, pullin' that lady right out of the fire's fuckin' throat! I love it here -- No surround and drown for this company. Fighting 17th! Goddamn Stephen's amazing. You see how he took that fire by the balls? I'm gonna be that good some day, you watch. 
Brian compares himself to the praise heaped on Stephen. 
BRIAN Thanks. 
STEPHEN Brian -- (a beat that hangs there) -- See ya tonight. 
INT. RESTAURANT - RETIREMENT PARTY - NIGHT 
That's been cleared out for a huge PARTY in full swing. An Irish folk band cuts loose a merciless bagpipe beat. City brass--including Alderman Swayzak -- a few reporters, firemen and their families all mix together for this is a RETIREMENT PARTY for the Captain Fitzgerald. Brian enters, seeks out a beer at the bar. Stephen's there, swaying with what is clearly not his first drink of the evening. 
STEPHEN Hey. 
BRIAN Hey. 
CHEERS as a one joke gift after another is laid on the Chief. Stephen sees his ex-wife, Helen, dancing with another man. He turns away. 
STEPHEN I gotta change the view... 
Santos and Grindle walk up. 
GRINDLE Heard you didn't make the list for captain, man. I'm sorry... 
Stephen just shrugs. 
Brian sees Jennifer across the room. She looks great. Refined as she expertly works the room, schmoozing and hugging and calling various politicos by their first name. 
As she speaks to one, a waiter offers a drink. As she accepts, a bottle appears over her shoulder and splashes it with red syrup. 
BRIAN (holding bottle, interrupting) With grenadine, right? 
JENNIFER When I was twenty. 
BRIAN Oooh, very sophisticated. Having fun? 
Her attention broken, the politico has slipped away. Annoyed, Jennifer leads Brian aside and speaks low, but angrily at him. 
JENNIFER Look, I'm not the same girl who had nothing better to do than wrap her legs around you on a Saturday night. This isn't about fun. I'm working here. 
BRIAN Carrying Swayzak's notebook? 
JENNIFER Let me tell you something. Martin Swayzak is going to be this town's next mayor. 
BRIAN Yeah. Swayzak. Humanity's last hope. How can you work for that guy? 
JENNIFER Why do you think Marty came here tonight? Because he cares about your department. You don't know how hard he works. You don't know about his programs helping West Side -- 
BRIAN -- All I know is that his programs are getting firemen hurt. 
JENNIFER Bullshit. Marty's plan is only about efficiency. I've got two cousins on the job, you think I'd work for him if I didn't believe in it? 
Jennifer instantly cuts off as a well-dressed COUPLE passes and switches stunningly into schmmoze-mode. 
JENNIFER (to man) -- Tom, how nice to see you. I know Marty'll be very happy you came. Thanks so much for the donation. (to woman) Marie... how's little Kevin? Really? Seen the polls? This is the year... 
They move away. Jennifer turns to Brian and switches just as fast back to their argument. 
JENNIFER -- The thing that really makes me angry is the way your union has -- 
Brian can't help it. He cracks up. 
BRIAN What was that? Oh man, you have picked up a few moves since John Paul II Boulevard. 
JENNIFER Yeah, well I like to think I'm just a little past hanging out on JP II watching the Irish pick fights and Litwalks barf in the planters. 
BRIAN I seem to remember some pretty good nights on JP II. 
Brian turns and walks away. 
ACROSS THE ROOM 
Adcox is talking with another knot of firemen. He's brought a date, SALLY, a hot little number that has a habit of standing on her tip-toes when she talks. 
SALLY (looking at Swayzak across room) Yuck, what a scumbag. 
AXE (to Santos) Fuckin' city transferred Sally three months ago out of parking violations into Swayzak's office. Now I gotta pay my own goddamn tickets and she's stuck with an asshole. 
SANTOS Pay more? 
SALLY (shrugs) No, but there's more exercise -- being chased around a desk. 
There's a commotion at the other end of the bar. A group of firemen have gathered around a weekly magazine. 
GRINDLE Aw, I don't believe this shit. 
SCHMIDT Somebody get a shovel! You seen this, Stephen? 
As they hold it up to Stephen we see a photo spread titled DARING FIRE RESCUE. 
The first photo shows Brian rushing out of the burning building with seemingly a woman in his arms. The second photo shows the backs of Adcox and Tim's helmets as they administered aid to the real woman they saved. The implication is it's the same woman. 
BRIAN What? 
TIM (reads) "Probationary Fireman Brian McCaffrey, on his very first fire, showed the kind of bravery and courage of a veteran firefighter when he risked life and limb to double-check a burning floor alone, emerging victoriously with Anna Rodriguez, a seamstress for the North Shore Clothing Company... McCaffrey first gained prominence as the subject of a 1972 Pulitzer Prize winning photograph taken at the scene of his father's death..." 
STEPHEN (looking at watch) Alright... Go! 
Tim picks up a roll of hose, 50 pounds, throws it over his shoulder and runs with Adcox to the foot of the building. There's a fixed standpipe that Adcox ties into as Tim drags the other end inside and up a flight of stairs. 
STEPHEN Go! 
Brian lifts another hose roll under his arm and runs for the building. 
STEPHEN That isn't a football, probie. Get it on your shoulder. 
Brian runs up two flights to meet Tim and connect his end. Tim heads down for another roll as Brian drags his up another two flights. It's a bitch. 
Sweating, he barrels back down the stairs, passing Tim coming up with another roll. 
BRIAN Having fun, fireman? 
Tim flips him off. Brian laughs and sprints for another roll. 
STEPHEN You're not breaking any records, Brian. 
Brian holds it under his arm and takes off. Stephen grabs a roll himself, hoists it to his shoulder and runs alongside. 
STEPHEN Your shoulder. Like this! 
Brian lifts it to his shoulder. 
STEPHEN Come on! Pick it up! 
They come to the doorway. Instead of stopping, Stephen follows Brian in and runs alongside up the stairs. Without a word spoken it's become a race between them. 
Brian's face explodes in sweat. His heart pounds as they go up flight after flight. The hose rolls weigh a 100 pounds. A thousand. Neck 'n neck all the way; grunting, their throats burning, only one flight from the roof Stephen STUMBLES and SCRAPES his leg. Brian pauses. Stephen's already back on his feet. 
STEPHEN Run, damn you! 
Brian does, Stephen already gaining on him -- getting ready to pass him -- when they burst gasping out onto the roof, Brian the "winner" by a nose. Stephen drops his hose roll, sticks his face into Brian's, -- And laughs. Unsure, Brian starts to join in. Stephen stops suddenly. 
STEPHEN Roll the hose. 
BRIAN What, are you kidding? By myself? 
Adcox and Tim, down below, have already disappeared back into the station. 
STEPHEN You heard me. 
We see now what Stephen apparently doesn't. He was scraped badly, his pant leg torn and leaking dark circles of blood. 
BRIAN What, is it the stairs? Christ, I'll let you win next time. 
STEPHEN (in Brian's face) You got a problem with drilling, probie? 
BRIAN No, Lt., I don't have a problem with drilling. But let's just have one drill. Not one for the company and one for me. 
STEPHEN Roll the hose. 
Stephen turns and walks away. Brian stands there watching him in blind fury, finally exploding. 
BRIAN Goddamn you Stephen, I'm not gonna quit. You hear me! 
An awkward beat between them that's interrupted suddenly by the station alarm klaxon. Stephen smiles. 
STEPHEN Well, thank God for fires... 
EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - HOSE TOWER - BELOW - DAY 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. LAKE SHORE MANSION - NIGHT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
EXT. LAKE SHORE MANSION - NIGHT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
INT. LAKE SHORE MANSION - FRONT DOOR 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. TENEMENT BUILDING - DAY 
Smoke and confusion. A MOTHER is screaming hysterically at Stephen as he jumps down from the engine. 
MOTHER (grabbing his coat) My baby! My baby's still up there! 
BATTALION CHIEF Hang on a sec, Stevie, we got a hoseline coming. 
Stephen doesn't even pause and enters the building. Brian hesitates a beat, then follows. 
Stephen walks through the creepy, brutalized silence. Back to where Rimgale had focused his investigation that night. He searches the floor, the wall, looking for something... 
EXT. ARSON HQ/FIREHOUSE - DAY 
A crumbling one in Chinatown. Brian checks the address on his slip of paper. He stands there a beat, hating himself. 
INT. FIRE STATION/ARSON HQ 
It's a regular station but for the rear that has been converted into arson squad offices. As Brian approaches the office door he can see Rimgale sitting at his desk. Standing nervously beside it is a fresh-faced, uniformed PROBIE. 
SHADOW (to probie) ...So stop me if I get this wrong... The fire's almost out... You're upstairs on the unburned floor checking for heat. You've been told by your Battalion Chief, your Captain, by me, not to do anything up there until ordered. But now the itch starts, and all of a sudden comes the Glory Boy Flash: Hey, I'm a hero. Heroes don't just stand around. So on your own you decided to punch out a window for ventilation. Was that before or after you noticed you were standing in a lake of gasoline? 
The kid is dying a thousand deaths of humiliation. 
SHADOW You could've crispered half your company with that little stunt, but more importantly you wrecked the physical evidence I use to prove it's arson. You've made my day longer, Probie. Go home and think about that. 
The kid shuffles off hang-dog. Rimgale's angry gaze falls on Brian. 
BRIAN Uh, I'm Brian McCaffrey. Your new assistant. 
SHADOW Your Dennis' kid. (beat) I work alone. 
And Rimgale walks into his office, leaving Brian marooned in the doorway. Stepping behind a small partition, Rimgale changes his shirt. Brian can just glimpse from where he stands a horrible burn that has consumed most of Rimgale's stomach. Rimgale catches the look. 
SHADOW Are you still here? 
BRIAN Get used to me, Inspector. I'm not going anywhere. 
SHADOW Then go find a corner. I don't want you in my way. 
BRIAN I think we should get something straight here. I was assigned to this office by the city. 
SHADOW Look, I knew your father, he had a helluva reputation on this job. But that don't mean you get any slack. Swayzak sends you down here, okay, I gotta eat you, that's the rules and I got nothing to say about that. But Swayzak or no, you live with me. Step out of line, and I don't care who knows you, I'll swing the hammer. (beat) You think you're the first? 
Rimgale glances at his watch, puts on his coat, and picks up a small paper bag. 
BRIAN Where are you going? 
SHADOW Pest control. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MAX SECURITY PRISON - DAY 
And the face of RONALD, an unremarkable man in his 40s. Unremarkable but for laser eyes and two heavily bandaged hands. Go wide and find him sitting in an institutional chair -- handcuffed, actually -- in an institutional hall. A uniformed guard stands nearby as Brian and Rimgale come down the corridor. Ronald smiles upon seeing Rimgale. 
RONALD Shadow. 
SHADOW How ya doin', Ronald. Staying comfortable? 
RONALD Didn't think you'd make it. 
SHADOW Wouldn't miss this for the world, pal. 
RONALD (looking at Brian) Who's this? 
SHADOW He works for me. 
RONALD Is he a fireman? (smiles) I like firemen. 
SHADOW You like everybody, Ronald. 
Ronald's eyes pick up Brian's name on his prison ID badge. 
RONALD Brian McCaffrey... (eyes light up happily) Oh this is really a treat. Brian McCaffrey. Lost a dad to the animal, huh? 
BRIAN (heating up) Hey, do I know you? 
SHADOW You don't know him. 
RONALD I know you. 
BRIAN (to Ronald) What the hell are you talking about my -- 
Rimgale silences Brian with a threatening hand. 
SHADOW Knock it off. Now. 
RONALD Tell him about me, Shadow? 
SHADOW Ronald here likes telephones. Used to tape wooden matches to the bell striker and wrap it in cotton. Came up with a whole little thing there, didn't you Ronald? When you got bored, what did you do? You just started making calls... mostly day care centers and retirement homes, wasn't it? 
RONALD Did he tell you how we finally met? 
SHADOW Nobody cares, Ronald. 
RONALD Oh, but it's a good story, Shadow. You're depriving our famous young friend here... 
VOICE IN CORRIDOR Okay... Ronald Bowland... 
The cop helps Ronald to his feet and all four are marching down the hall. 
BRIAN (after a beat) What are you listening to? 
Rimgale doesn't answer. His eyes drift over the scorched walls as he speaks softly to them. 
SHADOW You sneaky little son of a bitch... Hide and seek... Come on, tell me what I want to know... 
He scratches at some soot. Smiles and lifts a small hand recorder. 
SHADOW (business-like into recorder) Heavy smoke stains observed in entry room. Demarkation line high. Fire never got hot enough here to cook soot off. It started somewhere else... (walks down hall) Less soot here. More heat. (they enter back room) And very little soot here. (to Brian) Get that couch out of the way. 
Brian pulls it aside. The lower third of the wall is completely untouched by soot. 
SHADOW (to himself) So you were happy here. Warm and cozy and in no hurry... (into recorder) Soot high, clean unburned wall low, indicates slow burn in thermal balance. (to Brian) Find me some glass. 
BRIAN Glass? 
SHADOW Do we have a language barrier here? Glass. 
There's some on the sill of a blown window. Brian hands a shard to Rimgale, who turns it over in his palm. 
SHADOW (into recorder) Glass found in ignition room is in small, thin pieces, indicating explosion. Lack of discoloration indicates a long, slow burn. Explosion must of come after a slow burn. (shuts recorder off) You little tease... What were you up to you little bastard, huh? What made you that mad? (then, an idea) Or scared. (switches on recorder) It started in this room. Took its time, hung out... but the air ran out. It couldn't breathe. So it was snuffed. But it wasn't dead... still all that trapped heat, lying low, waiting for some sucker to open the door and give it that one gulp of air... 
BRIAN -- Another backdraft. 
Rimgale turns to the wall, a section where the plaster is severely damaged. He probes with a penknife. 
SHADOW Finish coat burned away... Severe spawling of rough coat... 
Rimgale follows the damaged wall down -- down -- to a melted wall socket. 
SHADOW That's our ignition point. Dig it out. Carefully. 
Brian chops it out from the wall. Rimgale crouches down, peels back the melted faceplate and examines the wires. The copper tip is severely melted. Rimgale sniffs the plug. 
SHADOW (into recorder) Temperature in this room was about 2000 degrees, but copper wire in outlet is melted, which requires 5000 degrees. An accidental short in the plug could of created a spark of 7000 degrees, hot enough to melt the wire and start a fire. 
BRIAN No it couldn't. 
Rimgale shuts off the recorder. Stares down Brian. 
BRIAN I mean you'd be right -- with normal wire. But that's gauge ten in that plug -- industrial stuff. Who knows why they put it in here -- but it won't melt at less than 12,000 degrees. And no natural spark short of lightning gets that hot. (Rimgale just stares) In another life I was in high-end electronics. 
Rimgale opens a plastic bag and puts the plug inside. 
SHADOW (into recorder) Have outlet analyzed for any traces of flammable accelerants. 
Rimgale stands and walks out. 
BRIAN Don't mention it. 
INT. THEATRE BUILDING - NIGHT 
Brian follows Rimgale down from the office into the vast theatre. Walls hiss and spit. Brian's surprised to see his former engine mates there, tromping and crunching their way through broken glass, their flashlights like dancing fireflies. Tim passes by. 
BRIAN Hey, Tim. 
Everybody turns at the voice and the air suddenly chills. 
TIM (distant) Brian. 
SHADOW (to Brian) Check the wall for burn patterns. 
And Rimgale's off to another room. Brian turns and looks at the wall. It's endless. 
BRIAN (to Tim) So, you surviving without me? 
TIM There's no replacement 'cause of your boss' cuts, if that's what you mean. If someone else goes out on an injury we're really screwed. 
BRIAN Swayzak's not my boss. 
Silence. Brian looks over the wall. A dirty puddle separates him from it. 
GRINDLE (to Brian) Ooooh, like the tie. Love the tie. 
BRIAN Grindle, scrape down that wall for me, huh? I would myself, but the tie 'n all, y'know... 
Grindle stares at him a beat, then wordlessly steps into the muck and pulls free a section of wall, dropping it on the ground in front of Brian. Santos and Grindle look at each other. 
SANTOS Uh, Brian, if you're lookin' for smoke patterns, there's some good ones over here. 
BRIAN Yeah? Where? 
GRINDLE (as Brian walks over) Little to the right... further... further... Right behind there. Hey, could you hand me that pike pole? 
There's a pike pole leaning against the wall. Brian pulls it aside. SPLASH -- The pole had been supporting a small, sagging piece of ceiling that instantly collapses, dumping twenty gallons of murky, putrid black water all over Brian's civvys. Nobody laughs. 
GRINDLE Sorry, maybe that wasn't it after all. 
Stephen appears around the corner. Sees what's happened. 
STEPHEN That's just about enough, guys, okay? 
STEPHEN In a fire? Never. (beat) Look, I'm his brother. I care about him, y'know? He was going to get himself killed. Maybe not today, maybe not in a year, but it would've happened. And I couldn't -- I just couldn't... 
HELEN You can't keep being his father... 
Stephen sighs deeply. 
STEPHEN You know what I realized today? I can't remember my dad's face anymore. There's pictures of him staring at me everywhere I go, but the guy behind them... he's gone... 
He sighs and hops down from the roof to the driveway. 
STEPHEN I'll see ya around, Helen. 
She watches him as he walks lonely up the street. 
INT. CITY MORGUE - DAY 
A Lab Tech, RICCO, leads Brian and Rimgale through the autopsy area till they come on two corpses lying side by side covered in plastic. 
RICCO Okay, Alan Seagrave and Donald Cosgrove... 
If you say so. Brian's stomach does a half-gainer as he's confronted by two hideously charred bodies. 
RICCO ...Both deaths due to close encounters with stationary objects; office door for Mr. Cosgrove, '89 Porsche for Mr. Seagrave. No non-relevant traumas. No significant blood toxicology. Attitude of both trajectories consistent with explosions. 
Brian is discreetly avoiding his gaze, whistling quietly to himself as he looks over specimen jars on a shelf. 
RICCO They ran the residue you scraped from both crispers' front doors. It's a combination of plumber's putty and rayophene gum. Burns almost completely away when you light it. 
SHADOW Putty? On both doors? 
RICCO There's something else kinda interesting... 
Ricco lifts Benton's charred shoulder. Underneath we see some of his clothes that have melted and co-mingled with his flesh. 
RICCO See this? 
A credit card has been fried right into Cosgrove's skin about where his back pocket should have been. 
RICCO Guess he didn't leave home without it. 
Ricco erupts in a honking laugh, then switches instantly back to a business tone. 
RICCO Anyway, down here, take a look... 
SHADOW McCaffrey, hold this for us. 
BRIAN Uh, I don't think that's in my contract... 
SHADOW I just re-wrote your contract. C'mere... 
With supreme reluctance Brian pulls the crisper's head and shoulder away from the table. 
RICCO Jesus Christ, he isn't gonna try to sell you insurance, lift him. 
Brian gathers the torso up and hoists him higher. 
RICCO (to Rimgale) See that patch of shirt? We wondered about the discoloration so he ran a spectro. On a lucky shot we picked up some traces of Trychticholorate. Nobody around here had ever heard of it. 
SHADOW Trychticholorate? Alright, it's an absorption catalyst in toxic waste accidents. It's pretty rare, they stopped making it a couple'a years ago. 
RICCO Probably got in Cosgrove's clothes in a gas state from the fire. 
SHADOW What the hell was it doing in the fire? 
RICCO That's your job. 
At that instant, Cosgrove's eyes OPEN and his body SIGHS. Brian DROPS the body in shock and backs away, stunned. 
SHADOW I asked you to hold him, not feel him up... 
INT. RIMGALE'S CAR - DAY 
Rimgale's FD sedan. Brian is still wringing imaginary guts off his hands. Rimgale tosses an open fire chem book in his lap. 
SHADOW Read. 
BRIAN "Trychtichlorate is a binary structured --" 
SHADOW -- Go to the bottom. Under heat properties. 
BRIAN "During heat episodes of 2000 Kelvin or higher, Trych breaks down and dissipates. Will consume magnesium". 
SHADOW Ever burned magnesium? It's so hot it takes water molecules and BAMM! 
Rimgale CLAPS his hands next to Brian's head, STARTLING him. 
SHADOW Son of a bitch tears 'em apart just to eat the oxygen. Wouldn't take much at all to melt ten gauge wire. Problem's burnt magnesium leaves a powder trace -- unless you could find something that would eat its residue. 
BRIAN Trychticholorate. Then Swayzak can announce Seagrave was a murder. 
Rimgale looks at Brian. He's getting tired of this. 
BRIAN (eyes on Swayzak) Hey... (beat) So are you dating your boss or what? 
JENNIFER If you weren't at least the 300th person to ask me that, I'd probably be pissed. (beat, sighs) Boy, you sure know it's a man's world sometimes... 
BRIAN Sorry. (beat) Are you dating anyone? 
JENNIFER You think that's really any of your business? 
BRIAN Well, you did invite me here. 
JENNIFER Marty did. (beat, smiles) But I wanted you to come to. 
Swayzak suddenly appears with his entourage. 
SWAYZAK Mr. McCaffrey... 
BRIAN Nice boat. 
SWAYZAK It isn't mine. (to photographer) Let's get a picture. 
Swayzak swings around and puts his arm cheesily around Brian's shoulder. Another staffer slaps a SWAYZAK FOR MAYOR sticker to Brian's lapel. Jennifer rolls her eyes to Brian. I'm sorry... Snap. 
SWAYZAK (seeing someone else) Larry! (sotto to Jennifer) What does he do again? 
Swayzak leads her off in pursuit. Left alone, Brian turns to the railing, stares off at the passing city. You can hear the wind-up of a siren. 
And there it is now, an engine company zooming along Wacker Drive. Something digs and kicks inside of Brian as he watches it disappear. 
JENNIFER How's the job going? 
She's appeared again beside him. 
BRIAN Okay. 
JENNIFER Boy, Rimgale's as slow as a snail, isn't he? 
BRIAN No, he's more of a dinosaur. Guy's not a dummy, though. He's juggling alot of balls on this one. 
JENNIFER Yeah, but it doesn't take Albert Einstein just to figure out if these guys were killed by accidents or not. 
BRIAN Jesus, give him a break. There isn't enough proof yet to go public. Sure, we found some chemical shit we think somebody dumped in the plugs to torch 'em, and we've maybe figured out why backdrafts, but you can't rush this stuff. Not 'till it's locked. 
JENNIFER But Rimgale's probably going to come around to arson. 
BRIAN In a dinosaur kinda way, yeah. 
BAMM! 
Both of them look up sharply. A woman drunk out of her mind has tipped over in her chair. She laughs, her fellow tablemates laugh, everybody laughs. Jennifer takes Brian by the arm in the opposite direction and smiles. 
JENNIFER Save me. 
EXT. PARTY BOAT - NIGHT 
The band's completely cut loose now. A wild percussion rhythm that has everyone on their feet dancing like madmen. Brian and Jennifer stomp and sweat and shake and giggle through hair crazily askew. The lakeshore is twinkling and wonderful as it slips past. The drums beat faster and harder and the only thing that isn't moving now is their eyes -- eyes locked on each other. 
EXT. ARSON HQ - NIGHT 
Sweaty, flushed with the evening and a few drinks, Brian and Jennifer pull up in her car. 
BRIAN Thanks for the invite. 
JENNIFER Got anything to drink in there? 
BRIAN Oh, there might be something stashed away for emergencies. 
INT. ARSON HQ/FIRE STATION 
The regular engine company's gone to bed and the arson squad's packed in for the night, leaving the apparatus floor quiet and dim as Brian and Jennifer enter. 
Brian leads her back past the engine and arson sedan to the rear where Rimgale has his offices. As they walk Jennifer's eyes drift up to the old sculpted parapets, the press-tin ceiling. 
BRIAN This is one of the oldest fire stations in the city. Lotta tradition locked up in here. What do you think? 
JENNIFER Homey. 
BRIAN See that trap door up there? That used to lead to the hay loft when they had horse-drawn engines. It was pretty different then... but kinda the same, y'know? 
JENNIFER Do you miss it? (he doesn't answer) You seem like you do. 
BRIAN When I came back, I knew more than anything else that I wanted to be a fireman. 
JENNIFER Then why did you quit? 
BRIAN I wanted to be a good one. 
INT. ARSON HQ - BACK OFFICES 
They walk into the back arson offices. Brian pokes through a few drawers, one or two shelves. Finally he lifts a squat, specialized fire extinguisher. The bottom has been hollowed out, leaving room for a fifth of bourbon. 
BRIAN Old firehouse trick. 
AXE Let me take the lead, Stephen... 
STEPHEN Goddamn it Adcox! Just do your fucking job! 
Adcox folds. With a stricken look on his face he takes his crew down the other way. Stephen and Tim slowly feel their way. 
CRACK 
Everybody SPINS around in terror. Nothing. Something inhuman giggles down ahead of them. Stephen smiles. 
STEPHEN (like a mantra) Oh, you're so very sly, but so am I... (to Tim) ...Listen to it... you can tell when a wall cracks which way it's gonna jump... you can hear the doors breathe if they're hot... 
Tim looks confused. He doesn't get it. 
They come to a side door. Stephen runs his hand down the jam, feels for heat. Then he steps back, takes a deep breath, and CRASHES the door down with one AXE BLOW. Quiet inside. 
INT. ARSON HQ - HOSE BED - NIGHT 
Brian and Jennifer are into the rhythm now, breathing deeply. On the wall above them are framed photos of dead firemen. Watching. 
INT. HIGH-RISE - SECOND DOORWAY - NIGHT 
Stephen concentrates on the sound of the fire above him, -- then abruptly turns and CRASHES down another door. 
INT. ARSON HQ - ALARM KLAXON GOES OFF - NIGHT 
Brian and Jennifer lie in a tight embrace, enjoying the moment, the lull, as suddenly the lights SNAP ON and an alarm klaxon BELLOWS. Firemen are coming down the pole now. 
JENNIFER What's going on? 
They frantically climb into their clothes. The firemen haven't noticed them as they climb aboard. They've STARTED THE ENGINE. 
JENNIFER What are they doing? 
EXT. ARSON HQ - STREETS - NIGHT 
And before either of them realizes it, they're suddenly pulling out into the street and WAILING off down the block. The wind's wild in their hair, the siren deafening, the flashing red lights blinding staccato, And Jennifer loves it. She kisses Brian fiercely, he lets out a war whoop lost in the blast of air, and together they hold each other as the night screams past and... 
EXT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT 
Engine 17 pulls up into the parking lot of the high-rise fire. Firemen leap out of the cab and rush around behind to pull off lengths of hose from the bed. As the folds curl away the fireman is stunned to see a woman's stocking come out with it. 
With equal shock he looks up and watches as a disheveled and grinning Brian and Jennifer climb calmly down out of the bed. 
BRIAN Excuse us. 
INT. HIGH-RISE - TIM'S DOOR - NIGHT 
Stephen and Tim creep along the hall. 
STEPHEN (to Tim) Lotta smoke, but it isn't rolling... that means it's hiding... staying sleepy... one of these doors... 
Tim's come to one. 
STEPHEN (to himself) Easy... no hurry... you're not going anywhere... 
Stephen BANGS down another door. Sticks his head in to check. A little woodpecker toy dips up and down in a glass of water. 
Tim readies his axe before his door, gathers his courage as Stephen comes out of the room he was checking. Sees Tim lifting his axe. 
STEPHEN Did you check the door for heat, Tim? 
Tim doesn't hear. The axe is already up. 
STEPHEN Tim? 
Tim's committed now, coming hard at the door. And Stephen sees it for just an instant -- Small tendrils of smoke edging lazily around the door -- then being sucked back in. 
STEPHEN Tim! 
He rushes for Tim as Tim's axe SMACKS the door and a whine behind it builds and roars and howls and Tim's all follow- through now, hitting the door with his shoulder as 
The door EXPLODES OUTWARD, HURLING TIM against the opposite wall and for an instant he's okay but he freezes in terror as A SHRIEKING TONGUE OF FLAME SHOOTS OUT THE DOORWAY and Grindle shouts in horror and opens his hose line as the flames wrap Tim like a jealous lover as Adcox hears it and screams, 
AXE Oh God! Oh God no! 
And Tim's screaming now too, because his helmet, his mask, his face, it's all melting and Grindle dives suicidally at the monster, BLASTING it with his hose as Stephen ignores the flames and puts his arms around Tim as Grindle DOUSES them both, killing the flames. 
The monster rolls wounded back into the room, into the air shafts as Tim whimpers incoherently, sliding down the wall as Stephen tries to help but oh God you can't tell what's face and what's mask and helmet anymore. 
Grindle looks back where the fire came from. There's a corpse in there, burned and lying between two doors. 
Adcox rushes to Tim's side sobbing and it's the end, the end of the goddamn world... 
EXT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT 
Brian and Jennifer are having the time of their lives, when suddenly a group of firemen pass by rushing someone on a stretcher to an ambulance and Brian sees -- sweet Jesus -- it's Tim. Jennifer turns away in horror. They load Tim into the van as Adcox and Grindle jump in to ride along. To hold his hand. 
Stephen watches the ambulance disappear out into the street. Frustration and fury tear at him as he takes off his coat and slams it to the ground. He kicks it, kicks it till his strength's gone. He turns, his wounded eyes finding Brian. 
INT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT 
JENNIFER You knew what we were asking you to do. Don't suddenly pull out a conscience now. The fit isn't right. 
Swayzak appears in the doorway. He looks haggard, as if he hasn't slept. There's something haunted in his eyes. 
SWAYZAK Mr. McCaffrey... Keeping busy? 
BRIAN Yeah. In fact, I just dropped off a letter to the Times explaining how yesterday's arson announcement was a fabrication by your office. They loved it. And you know what? You were right, my family background in firefighting gave it weight. 
JENNIFER Oh Brian... 
Brian shoulders his way past Swayzak and walks out. 
INT. HOSPITAL - TIM'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Brian walks up to Tim's room. Stephen's sitting there, ragged looking. Inside the young probie lies wrapped in tubes and gauze and years of wasted promise. An EKG beeps, a respirator hisses, and Brian gulps down something heavy in his throat. 
STEPHEN He's gonna live. Maybe not much else, but he's gonna live... 
Stephen walks away. 
EXT. ARSON HQ - MORNING 
As Rimgale gets out of his car a limousine pulls up. Swayzak opens the rear door from inside. 
SWAYZAK Inspector. 
SHADOW Alderman. 
INT. SWAYZAK SEDAN - DAY 
Cruising through traffic. Swayzak is disheveled, unshaven, fidgety. A man who hasn't slept and had a few drinks before the one he's pouring now. He offers one to Rimgale. 
SHADOW I usually have breakfast first. 
Swayzak apparently doesn't. 
SWAYZAK When are you going to catch the prick that's doing this, Don? 
SHADOW "Don?" 
SWAYZAK Don't you have any leads at all? 
SHADOW No Marty, I don't. 
For the first time, Rimgale sees real fear on Swayzak's face. 
SHADOW We still haven't found a connection between the victims. 
SWAYZAK Jesus, open your eyes! Seagrave, Cosgrove, and now Holcomb -- fried in a goddamn high-rise! 
SHADOW Holcomb? I didn't know the name of that victim had even been released yet. 
The sedan stops back at arson HQ. They'd gone around the block. 
EXT. ARSON HQ - SWAYZAK SEDAN - DAY 
Rimgale opens the door, climbs out, lingers. 
SHADOW Is there a connection between them, Alderman? 
SWAYZAK Just catch the son of a bitch. 
The door shuts and Swayzak roars away. 
INT. ARSON HQ - BACK OFFICES - DAY 
Rimgale walks back into his offices. He's surprised to see Brian there working at his desk. 
SHADOW What the hell are you doing here? 
BRIAN I'm finished with Swayzak. I'll do whatever you want me to do. I just want to help catch the guy that burned Tim. You gotta give me another shot. 
Rimgale stares at Brian, appraises him. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HIGH-RISE 
A CLOSE UP of Rimgale POPPING the molding around the door frame of Holcomb's burned office. Underneath can be seen traces of the same white residue from the other fires. 
SHADOW I thought 'ol Marty was acting a little strange... And he's right. 
Rimgale rubs the white powder between his fingers. 
BRIAN Backdraft? 
Rimgale stands at the spot in the short hall where the body lied between two doors. 
SHADOW The backdraft was set somewhere in there. It fried Holcomb when he opened the inner door. But the outer door held... and waited for Tim... 
Brian steps into the inner office. 
She starts her car. 
JENNIFER Goodbye, Brian. 
INT. FIRE DEPARTMENT REPAIR DEPOT 
A cavernous hall full of dozens of fire trucks loaded on jacks. Rimgale's sedan's there, the repairman shaking his head in amazement at the undercarriage. 
REPAIRMAN What the hell do you do with this thing? 
Rimgale's looking through the report Brian's handed him. 
SHADOW This is the copy of Swayzak's manning report that was released. Everybody on this job knows it's bullshit but we could never argue with the numbers. They're all airtight. 
BRIAN Yeah? Airtight? 
He dumps three more reports on Rimgale. 
BRIAN I've got three different drafts of the same report -- with different numbers that're all over the place. Looks like they were just making it up as they went along. 
SHADOW Did a little check on the consulting firm that wrote the report. They did exactly one job -- Swayzak's manpower study. It's not even really a company. No employees, no directors, just a PO Box. 
BRIAN Then who wrote the report? 
SHADOW It had to be someone who knows numbers. Some kind of fancy accountant. But what's the connection? 
Brian hands him something else. A photograph. Swayzak and the other three, posing on a fishing boat, 1970. Time of their lives. 
SHADOW I think it's time Mr. Swayzak and us had a little heart to heart talk. 
EXT. SWAYZAK'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
The red arson sedan pulls up to wealthy home. Rimgale and Brian walk up and knock on the door -- it creaks open ajar. They push the door open slowly. 
INT. SWAYZAK'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
It's dark as they enter. 
SHADOW Hello? Swayzak? 
Brian and Rimgale split up down different halls. It's the HISS Brian hears first. Then the FLASH of an electrical socket FLARING ice-cold cobalt blue. Suddenly the room's dimensions are there in frantic, strobing shadows. Chairs, a couch -- 
-- And a figure that JUMPS Brian. the light from the burning plug is a fierce strobe as the figure, a confused shadow, crashes Brian to the floor. They STRUGGLE. 
The figure GRABS Brian's throat. Brian PUSHES him back 
-- Against the burning wall plug. The figure SHRIEKS in pain, gets his hand on a crowbar and SLAMS Brian -- who crumples, dazed. The figure stands -- just as Rimgale TACKLES him. The figure CRASHES across a gas space heater, SNAPPING the connection off. The figure SLAMS Rimgale HARD with the crowbar, squirms free, and stumbles out the door. 
Hissss... Rimgale climbs to his feet as fire eats at the wall. A baby backdraft wagging its tail. He goes to a dazed Brian's side, lifting him by his armpits and 
EXT. SWAYZAK HOUSE - NIGHT 
helping him outside. Hissss... The ruptured space heater pumps gas furiously. Rimgale sees that. He also sees a bedroom door ajar on the far side of the house. And through the door a couch. And on the couch, A body. Hissss... 
INT. SWAYZAK HOUSE - NIGHT 
Rimgale rushes back inside. It's Swayzak, unconscious. 
EXT. SWAYZAK HOUSE - NIGHT 
Rimgale drags him out on the stoop beside Brian just as the gas WHUMPS and the doors and windows EXPLODE in a HOWLING FIREBALL, the shrapnel BLOWING Rimgale off his feet. Brian slowly shakes his head clear. He looks around, tries to orient himself. 
SHADOW Uh... I sorta got a problem here... 
Brian climbs up to his feet and walks over to where Rimgale lies at a weird angle, a piece of wrought iron fence punched through his shoulder. 
INT. HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT 
Rimgale lies in an emergency room bed. 
SHADOW Well Brian, I guess you can say it's arson now... 
BRIAN How ya feeling? 
Rimgale grunts. 
BRIAN Did you pull me out? 
SHADOW Yeah. 
BRIAN Did I say thanks? 
SHADOW No. 
BRIAN Just wondering. 
SHADOW I hate hospitals. You're so... so goddamn useless... 
Rimgale suddenly kicks the bed frame in anger. He kicks it over and over with frustration till something finally SNAPS off. Brian waits, let's him vent his frustration. 
BRIAN So what do you want me to do? 
His whole body aching with reluctance, Brian begins looking through them. Solvents, Armorall, a small specialty can of fire dept. chemicals. There's a label of ingredients on it. Way down at the bottom, Is trychticholorate. Nausea wracks its way through Brian. 
BRIAN Oh goddamn it Stephen... 
Footsteps. Brian spins around in stone shock as Stephen comes into the cabin. 
STEPHEN Hey, what are you doing here? 
BRIAN Just... Just wanted to say hello... 
STEPHEN So hello. 
Brian backs away from the chemicals. 
STEPHEN Well, long as you're here you can help clean up a little. I've got a guy coming to look at this in a few minutes. 
BRIAN You're selling dad's boat? 
STEPHEN Yeah, it's just another memory in my life right now. And I got way too many of them... 
BRIAN I really should get back. There's... there's something I'm supposed to do. 
STEPHEN Yeah? What have you got to do? (beat) Look at you. Look at your face. All the things you must be thinking. Man, you must really hate my guts. Well, you know what? It's okay. 
BRIAN Look, Stephen, maybe we can talk about this some other -- 
STEPHEN -- Okay, so you don't like me. You don't like everything I've done. What, because I wasn't such a genius the way I raised you? Jesus Christ, dad was gone, what was I supposed to do? You tell me, what the fuck was I supposed to do?! 
He KICKS the bulkhead wall. 
BRIAN It's okay, Stephen, I -- 
STEPHEN -- I tried, y'know? Helen's right. I don't have all the answers, but goddamn it, I've got some. (beat) Look, you're gonna do what you have to, and maybe I shouldn't have gotten in the way. I'm your brother, not your father. Go on. You gotta go somewhere? Go... 
Brian turns to leave. Pauses. 
BRIAN I saw it. 
STEPHEN Saw what? 
BRIAN When dad died, I saw another fire... 
STEPHEN Everybody did. 
BRIAN I saw it before it got them. I tried to yell, but... He asked me to look out for him. And I didn't do it. I let him die. 
STEPHEN (stunned) ...Jesus, you been carrying that around for twenty years? For christ's sake, you were seven years old! You think he could have heard you in there? 
BRIAN I hate him so much sometimes, Stephen. You don't know how hard it was for me to put that uniform on... 
STEPHEN Maybe I do. (sighs) ...What a fuckin' mess, huh? (beat) People can change Brian. 
BRIAN Sometimes right when you're looking at them. 
Brian sees the chemicals in the corner again and something freezes up inside. Stephen catches the look and there's horrible silence between them. 
BRIAN Oh God, Stephen, what's going on with you? 
STEPHEN I don't know, Brian... I don't know... 
EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - NIGHT 
Brian stands before the fire station. His brother's and his. 
INT. FIRE STATION 17 - UPSTAIRS LOCKER ROOM 
Brian PRIES the lock off Stephen's locker. Starts looking through it. Adcox comes out of the shower with a towel on, starts shaving in a mirror. He doesn't notice Brian. Adcox turns to head for his own locker and the towel slips a little. And Brian's universe caves in. 
An icy claw tears out his stomach. Gulping breaths, he forces himself to look at Adcox's back. 
On it is a small, rectangular burn. It's fresh and it's the size of a wall socket. At that moment Adcox turns. The two of them stare at one another just a beat, then Adcox walks past him. Just then the alarm bells RING. Brian hesitates a beat, confused, then turns and runs down to 
INT. FIRE STATION 17 - APPARATUS FLOOR 
Where firemen are scurrying around, suiting up. Brian looks frantically for Stephen, sees him out back. 
EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - BACK OF STATION - SUNDOWN 
BRIAN (breathless) -- Stephen, wait a minute. I gotta talk to you. It's Adcox, he's -- 
STEPHEN -- What are you doing here? 
BRIAN I saw Adcox's back! I saw the burn! I put it there! Jesus Christ, Stephen, he's been killing people! 
STEPHEN I know. 
BRIAN How do you know? 
STEPHEN I knew when you came looking for the chemicals. Looking for me. 
BRIAN -- What were they doing there? 
BRIAN Did you do it for Tim? 
AXE (pain, to Stephen) That was an accident! Jesus Christ, why did you have to go in there so fucking early? Why didn't you listen to me! 
Brian and Stephen are backed up against the roof edge -- sixty feet up. Far below a fireboat has begun pumping a massive stream at the side of the building. 
AXE You gotta let me finish -- 
BRIAN Just come down, John. Just -- 
AXE -- Shut up! Your dad would fucking puke if he saw how you've shit on his department! 
STEPHEN -- Knock it off! 
AXE (to Stephen) -- You can't let him turn you against your friends, man -- 
BRIAN -- He killed people -- 
AXE -- You know what Swayzak would do to the department if this got out? -- 
BRIAN -- Stephen, this is bullshit -- 
AXE -- What he would do to your dad's department? You gotta let me finish it -- 
And there's a horrible glimmer of confusion on Stephen's face. 
BRIAN You're his Lt., Stephen... (beat) Are you gonna handle it? Are you Stephen? 
STEPHEN Shut up! 
AXE ...What do you want me to do, Stephen? Talk to me. What am I supposed to do? 
STEPHEN (beat) There's a fire. We've got a job here. Let's get on with it. 
EXT. WAREHOUSE - ACROSS THE ROOF - NIGHT 
The rest of the crews are totally oblivious to what's happening through the smoke on the other side. Grindle and Santos feel the roof go suddenly spongy beneath them. 
GRINDLE Shit... It's going! Clear the roof! Now! 
Everybody drops their equipment and runs for the edges as 
EXT. WAREHOUSE ROOF - BRIAN ET. AL - NIGHT 
Brian, Stephen and Adcox react as the roof HOWLS and GROANS and huge SPLITS begin racing along it. And then it goes. 
The center section DROPS, and in rolling waves of SCREECHING steel, the hole spreads outward; DEVOURING. 
Adcox shoves them aside and runs for his life as the hole races for them, SWALLOWING roof. 
STEPHEN Jesus Christ Brian, run! Run goddamn it! 
And Brian balls-out dashes for the edge. Stephen's made one corner, Brian desperately heads for another. At the last instant -- as the HOWLING FLAME BELLOWS UP to his ankles -- Brian LEAPS OFF the roof -- 
EXT. WAREHOUSE - FIRE ESCAPE - NIGHT 
-- And falls half a story before CRASHING onto an exterior fire escape. Flames have cut off the fire escape two floors below, so Brian climbs down as far as possible, crawls onto a ledge, KICKS out a window, steps through, 
And falls. 
INT. WAREHOUSE - ELEVATOR SHAFT - NIGHT 
Blackness and emptiness, two stories of it, before he CRASHES into a pool of water at the bottom. He's in a freight elevator shaft, thrashing madly, drowning. Great SHEETS of WATER are POURING through an upper doorway and CASCADING down like monsoon rain. 
EXT. WAREHOUSE - FIREBOAT 
We see it's coming from the fireboat's rushing stream. 
INT. WAREHOUSE - ELEVATOR SHAFT 
The weight of his equipment is pulling Brian underwater. Struggling against the insane swirls and the sheets of water still POURING DOWN, Brian unhooks his air tank. He leans back, tries to float on the rising column of water. -- His coat catches on something -- YANKS him underwater. He struggles feverishly -- finally tears the coat off. 
The building GROANS in earnest. Flaming chunks of plaster CRASH down around Brian, forcing him to duck underwater. The place is coming apart. 
Ten feet above, one of the falling chunks SMACKS a gas main, SPLITTING then IGNITING it. A white-hot JET OF FLAME SHOOTS from one side of the shaft to the other. 
Brian's floating okay, he's floating right up into the flames. 
Brian tries to flatten himself out, to keep everything but his nose below water, but he's still moving up -- the heat becoming so intense his face flares and he's ducking under water now, trying to stay alive, trying to decide whether to drown or burn -- 
-- When there's a CRASH. And suddenly another door on the shaft is tearing open. There's a glint of an axe. A flashlight. 
It's Stephen. 
Brian has about two seconds left. In that time Stephen sees the shut-off for the gas line mounted on the wall opposite. It's unreachable, a good twelve feet across a horizontal curtain of flame. Before we can even assimilate that, Stephen's already jumped. A crazy leap over the fire. He SMACKS the opposite wall, HITS the shut-off, and FALLS CRASHING into the pool beside Brian. 
STEPHEN You crazy son of a bitch, why couldn't you stay behind a desk where you belong? 
BRIAN "You never know till the fire stares you down if you're gonna be --" 
STEPHEN Oh shut up, huh? (grimaces) I think I broke my goddamn arm... 
