BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK 
Written by 
Don McGuire and Millard Kaufman 
Based on the story 
"Bad Day At Hondo" 
by Howard Breslin 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
FADE IN BEFORE MAIN TITLE 
BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK 
ESTABLISHING SHOT - BLACK ROCK - PART OF TOWN: FOCAL POINT: RAILROAD STATION 
abandoned, in an extreme state of dilapidation. The structure is blistered by the resolute sun, the roof is weather-warped. Dry rot and mildew wage a relentless battle against the foundation. Between the building and the tracks is a long, somewhat narrow platform, its floorboards twisted by time, termites and the elements. The match-board overhang of the building, throwing some little shade to a portion of the platform, sags and bellies. From the overhang is appended a rectangular panel on which, in flaky paint, the town is identified: 
BLACK ROCK 
One of the broken wires holding the panel is longer than the other, cocking the sign irregularly. 
The railroad tracks reach endlessly into the horizon. Past the town on each side stretches the ocean-like prairie, with sand dunes rising and falling monotonously, shouldering each other toward infinity. The morning sun lays over this wasteland of the American Southwest, a gigantic yellow bruise from which heat waves like bloodshot arteries spread themselves over the poisoned sky. 
A small shack stands next to the station, separated from it by a narrow alleyway and leaning toward the larger building, as if for support. The words POSTAL TELEGRAPH are arced across its dusty vitrine. An old straight-backed chair, reinforced with twisted wire, is tilted against the north-west corner of the shack. In it is Mr. Hastings, the postal telegraph agent, a man of middle years and exorbitant mediocrity. He sits there spinelessly, fingering a wart on his receding chin and, once in a while, for variety, rubbing a knuckle under his watery nose. 
FULL SHOT - BLACK ROCK 
The town is minute, dismal and forgotten, crouching in isolation where the single line of railroad track intersects a secondary dirt road. The twin strips of steel glisten in the fierce sunlight, fencing the dreary plain from the false fronts of the town. In b.g. is the bluff of a black stony mountain. Against this ancient mass the houses of Black Rock's single street*** (See map, P.2A) are scanty in number and insignificant in architecture, a conglomerate paint-peeled modern trussed together with rusty nails and battered tin strips torn from signs. 
The town and the terrain surrounding it have, if nothing else, the quality of inertia and immutibility -- nothing moves, not even an insect; nothing breathes, not even the wind. Town and terrain seem to be trapped, caught and held forever in the sullen, abrasive earth. 
OUT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
STRAIGHT SHOT - STREAMLINER 
jarring in its power as it ramrods across the desert, its diesel engines pounding. Its horn "WONKS" twice, blasting the shatterable air. 
FULL SHOT - BLACK ROCK - ANOTHER ANGLE 
Nothing is changed, nothing is altered. But look close and you will see a small shallow current of wind sweeping lazily across the dirt and dust of the single street. HOLD for a beat, then MAIN TITLE appears. Between the ensuing credits INTERCUT a series of sharp LONG SHOTS. The composition of each shot has that hard, sun-beaten texture of American primitive painting -- pressurized in its simplicity -- best exemplified, perhaps, by the work of Grant Wood. 
EXT. SAM'S SANITARY BAR AND GRILL - ANGLE ON DOC VELIE 
assayer and notary public, mortician to the citizens of Black Rock who have departed to a better place, and veterinarian to its lesser animals. An elderly, somewhat untidy gentleman, he sits nonchalantly on a chair outside the Bar & Grill. Idling with him are three or four other loafers, among them Sam, the middle-aged proprietor of the restaurant. Doc glances casually at his watch; no one else moves. The hot wind continues listlessly down the empty street. 
OUT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
EXT. GARAGE - LIZ BROOKS 
A tall, attractive girl of twenty in dungarees and cotton shirt. She stands just outside the open barn-like door of the garage, staring, from the compulsive force of habit, at the endlessly receding tracks. The sultry wind, its gustiness slightly increased, blows through her fine dark hair. 
OUT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
EXT. PORCH OF HOTEL - COLEY TRIMBLE AND HECTOR DAVID 
HASTINGS You for Black Rock? 
MACREEDY (easily) That's right. 
HASTINGS (uneasily) There must be some mistake. I'm Hastings, the telegraph agent. Nobody told me the train was stopping. 
MACREEDY (with a ghost of a grin) They didn't? 
HASTINGS (upset) I just said they didn't, and they ought to. What I -- want to know, why didn't they? 
MACREEDY (shrugging) Probably didn't think it was important. 
HASTINGS Important?! It's the first time the streamliner stopped here in four years. (swallowing nervously) You being met? You visiting folks or something? I mean, whatd'ya want? 
MACREEDY I want to go to Adobe Flat. Any cabs available? 
HASTINGS (as if he hadn't heard right; as if he wanted everyone in town to know) Adobe Flat?! (he gulps, recovers slightly) No cabs. 
MACREEDY Where's the hotel? 
Hastings looks at him blankly. The thousand-yard stare of a hypnotic glazes his features. 
MACREEDY (patiently) I asked where's the hotel? 
Hastings points. 
MACREEDY Thanks. 
With his suitcase, he cuts across a weedy path, running into Black Rock's single street. For a moment, Hastings stares after him; then he breaks hurriedly, entering telegraph agent's shack. 
INT. POSTAL TELEGRAPH OFFICE 
as Hastings, fumbling, picks up the phone... 
HASTINGS (into mouthpiece) Hello, Pete? Now, listen... 
REVERSE SHOT - MAIN STREET - BLACK ROCK 
SHOOTING down the street as Macreedy slowly walks toward the hotel. Not a person has moved, each eye is glued on the stranger. 
The hollow rasp of Macreedy's tread on the wooden platform of the "pavement" seems shatteringly loud in the enveloping silence... 
CLOSE SHOT - LIZ 
as she follows the man's movement. 
OUT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
CLOSE ANGLE - ON MACREEDY 
as he walks along. He feels the eyes of everyone following him, glaring at him. He halts, looks around. The townspeople continue to eye him brazenly, yet with an almost animal incuriosity. He grins and walks on past a cluster of five or six RFD mail boxes and a road sign [1], its paint peeling, its face punctured by three or four bullets from a drunk's pistol long ago. 
SHOT - MACREEDY 
heading toward the hotel. In b.g. is a relatively small farm equipment yard compressed between a general store (which Macreedy has just passed) and the hotel just ahead. In the yard are a few tractors, and among them huddles a tiny office. It is empty; the front window is thick with dust. On it, etched by an anonymous, childish finger, is a skull and crossbones. Running diagonally across is the printed legend: 
T.J. HATES J.S. 
Macreedy notes the inscription with a sort of wry bemusement. He walks on, reaching the facade of the weather-beaten hotel. A gust of wind swirls down the street, momentarily engulfing Macreedy and the entire area in a sudden eddying whirlpool. As it subsides... 
ANOTHER ANGLE - MACREEDY 
As he peers through the dust toward the dingy hotel. It has a narrow stoop and outsize bay windows on each side. Macreedy mounts the hotel steps. At the top of the steps Coley Trimble and Hector David watch him silently. Hector is large and leanly muscular, yet Coley looms over him like a battleship. He is a gross behemoth of a man, with sharp flinty eyes the size of glistening pinpoints and a slack, oversized jaw. Both men wear modern Western work clothes, but there is one incongruous accessory which Hector affects. Around his thick wrist is a watch with a large flat face and an elaborately tooled leather strap -- a cheap reproduction of one of those expensive Swiss timepieces which, among many distinguished accomplishments, tells the day of the week, the month of the year, the phase of the moon, etc., etc. 
PETE (uncomfortable) Well... as I said... 
Macreedy leans over the counter to a rack of keys. He runs his splayed fingers over the key rack as... 
MACREEDY Lots of vacancies. 
PETE They're everyone of 'em locked up. Some are show rooms... 
MACREEDY Yes...? 
PETE (with touching sincerity) ...for cattle buyers, feed salesmen. The others -- they're spoken for, rented to cowboys, ranch hands... (Macreedy listens respectfully) They pay by the month. For when they come into town. We provide for their every wish and comfort. (weakly) You understand...? 
MACREEDY Not really. But while I'm pondering it, get a room ready. Just for tonight. (picking key from rack at random) This one. 
Pete opens his mouth but no sound comes out. [...] at Hector. 
CLOSE SHOT - HECTOR 
glowering at Pete. 
TWO SHOT - MACREEDY AND PETE 
as Macreedy signs the ledger. 
MACREEDY (signing) Sure could use a bath. Where is it? 
He picks up the key. 
PETE Head of the stairs. 
Macreedy nods, reaches for the bag at his feet. Then he hesitates, looks at Hector. 
MACREEDY I don't know just why you're interested -- but the name's Macreedy. I'm... (grins) It's all in the ledger. 
HECTOR (slowly, his eyes glued to Macreedy's stiff arm) You look like you need a hand. 
Macreedy says nothing. The wales along his face harden. He picks up his bag and climbs the stairs. As he disappears, Hector lumbers to the desk and grabs the ledger. 
HECTOR (reading aloud) John J. Macreedy. From Los Angeles. (looking up) I wanna know everything he does, Pete. Check every call -- any mail. 
PETE (nodding) And in the meantime...? 
HECTOR (grinning harshly) In the meantime, I'll crowd him a little... (looking up the stairs) ...see if he's got any iron in his blood... 
As Pete bites his lower lip thoughtfully, 
DISSOLVE: 
OUT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
INT. BATHROOM - DAY - MACREEDY 
in a new bathrobe, before a cracked, discolored mirror. He draws a safety razor down his face, completing his shave; then he wipes a hand over the mirror, which clouds with steam almost as fast as he can clear it. o.s., the SOUND of bath water gurgling down the tub drain. He runs a tentative finger inside the collar of his robe, pulling loose a price tag. He drops it carefully into a wastebasket. He turns on the faucet at the sink to rinse his shaving brush. The rusty pipes cough and rumble, roaring as a trickle of water arrives while the drain sucks loudly at its departure. He dries the razor, turns off the faucet and exits. 
INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - ANGLE ON MACREEDY 
As he walks down the dark, narrow hall. He wears the bathrobe and slippers; a large towel is draped over his head, like a prize fighter. He stops outside a door, pushes the towel from his head to his neck and puts his hand on the knob. He is about to insert the key when he tenses. Slowly, silently, he turns the knob and throws open the door. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM 
Next to the door, in the corner of the small, sparsely furnished room is Macreedy's suitcase, open, its contents askew and scattered over the dusty floor. On the bed sprawls Hector David, his gigantic body straining the springs. He lies on his back, hands clasped easily under his head, thick legs crossed, his Stetson tilted over his low forehead. He is completely unconcerned by Macreedy's entrance. For a moment Macreedy stares at him. Then... 
MACREEDY (slightly amused) I think you have the wrong room. 
REVERSE SHOT - WHAT THEY SEE 35X1 
Macreedy walks down the stairs. Pete looks up from the desk. He is about to dart behind the partition when... 
MACREEDY Hey! Hold it! 
He walks to the desk, smiling at Pete. In b.g., Doc, Sam and the loafers watch. 
MACREEDY Got any cigarettes? 
Pete studies him, then bends under the counter, coming up with a pack. Doc leaves Sam and is slowly walking toward the stranger, eyeing him curiously. 
PETE This is all. 
Macreedy throws the money on the desk and opens the pack, dexterously using the fingers of his left hand. 
PETE How long you staying? 
MACREEDY In my new room, you mean? (flatly) I'm staying. 
PETE I mean, in the hotel. 
MACREEDY Just about twenty-four hours. (sharply) Why? 
PETE (flustered) I... I was just askin'. 
MACREEDY (evenly) Why? You expecting a convention? 
PETE (doggedly) I was just askin'. 
Macreedy looks at him, inhales deeply on his cigarette then, as he slowly lets the smoke out, removes the cigarette and looks at it. 
MACREEDY Stale. 
Now Doc is at the desk not far from Macreedy. Macreedy starts out, then turns to Pete. 
MACREEDY Where can I rent a car? 
PETE I don't know. 
Macreedy smiles and sighs tiredly. Then... 
MACREEDY (as to a child) Let's put it this way -- if I had a car and if I wanted to put gas in it, where would I go? 
PETE (refusing to cooperate) But you don't have a car. 
DOC (to Macreedy) You might try the garage at the end of the street. 
Macreedy pauses, looking at Doc, who blandly returns his stare. 
MACREEDY Thanks. 
Doc nods. Macreedy smiles and walks toward the door; Pete, Doc et al watching him. He goes out. 
EXT. STREET 
As Macreedy walks down hotel steps, a station wagon pulls up just before him. Tied with a rope to the right front fender is a magnificent eight-point buck. A stain of dry blood weaves an uneven course down his glossy flank from an unmistakable bullet hole in his shoulder. Two men get out of the car; one of them is Coley Trimble. He sees Macreedy coming toward him. He stands motionless in the center of the narrow pavement, picking at his nose with the detachment of a child. The other man is broad and excessively masculine as he swings out from behind the wheel. He walks around the car, joining Coley at the curb. Macreedy comes on. The man with Coley looks at the stranger with colossal indifference, as expressionless as the soil of Black Rock. His handsome face, under a dusty hunting cap, is taut and hard and wind-shaven. Next to Coley he stands motionless, except for the wisp of smoke from a black Cuban cigarette between his thin lips. In b.g., the loafers who had been ensconced in the hotel lobby move out the door and stand on the porch. They watch Macreedy, Coley and Reno Smith, the handsome, taut-faced man. Silence soems to settle over everything. It is Macreedy who breaks it... 
MACREEDY (grinning wearily at Coley) Here we go again. 
Gently he walks around Coley and Reno Smith and continues down the street. Coley's eyes follow him. Smith goes up the steps of the hotel and enters the lobby. Coley quickly follows him. The loafers on the porch go back inside. 
INT. HOTEL LOBBY 
The loafers resume their familiar places as Smith walks briskly to the clerk's desk. Pete, in anticipation, opens the hotel register, places it before Smith 
T.J. She's not here. 
MACREEDY Where'd she go? 
T.J. (shrugging) I dunno. Somewhere. 
MACREEDY When will she be back? 
T.J. I dunno. Sometime. 
Again the pause. T.J. steps back, having completed his work, which, of course, broadcasts the fact that "T.J. HATES J.S.". And again as Macreedy begins to speak... 
T.J. In about ten minutes. 
MACREEDY (with a grin) Thanks. 
T.J. turns, pulls the bike away from the building, completes a fastidious "pony express" and peddles furiously out of scene. 
EXT. STREET - FULL SHOT 
as Macreedy, after a moment's hesitation, starts down it. From the far end, at the telegraph agent's shack, a figure starts running toward Macreedy. It is Hastings. INTERCUT between the two men. Hastings, in his concentration, doesn't see the stranger until he is almost upon him. He slows down, suddenly, awkwardly, to a self-conscious walk. Macreedy grins at him, passes on, shaking his head speculatively. Hastings, with a parting glance, gallops up the hotel steps. 
INT. HOTEL LOBBY - FULL SHOT 
Smith, Coley, Hector, Pete, Doc, Sam et al are still in evidence. Smith is in a tight little group at the desk with Coley, Hector and Pete. Doc has taken a position at the window, looking out. Hastings bursts in and half-runs to Smith... 
ANGLE FAVORING SMITH AND HASTINGS 
as the excited telegraph agent speaks. 
HASTINGS I called the Circle T. He ain't got business there -- not if they don't know him. Right, Mr. Smith? 
Smith ignores him, thinking. Hastings breathes heavily. Finally... 
SMITH (to Hastings) Send a wire to Nick Gandi in Los Angeles. Tell him to find out all he can about John J. Macreedy. Tell him I want to know fast. Sign my name. 
Hastings nods, scribbling on a pad. 
HASTINGS What was that? 
SMITH Nick Gandi. G-A-N-D-I. Care of the Blake Hotel. 
Hastings nods and hurriedly exits. 
COLEY (after a beat) Who's Gandi? 
Smith looks at Coley, trying to decide if the question in any way challenges his authority. He concludes not... 
SMITH He's a private detective. (beat) I drive to L.A. now and then. 
HECTOR (slightly worried) He'll get us the dope? 
SMITH He'll get us anything, for twenty bucks a day and expenses. (Hector frowns) Hector, you worry too fast and too easy. 
HECTOR It's just, I don't like it. 
COLEY Maybe he's just passing through. 
HECTOR Don't bet on it. He can only mean trouble. 
SMITH (smiles faintly) Hector, you're jumpy as a stall horse. 
HECTOR (doggedly) We oughtta see him... talk to him. 
SMITH (quietly) About what? (Hector doesn't answer) What'll we talk to him about? The birds, the bees? The weather? The crops? (pauses) You tried -- where'd it get you? 
He takes a belt that would incapacitate half the county. He finishes, smacks his lips, lays the bottle down, and falls into a chair. He looks up at Macreedy. 
TIM (suddenly mean) What're you lookin' at? 
MACREEDY (easy) You tell me. 
TIM (after a beat, relaxing) I ain't always this bad -- just that last night me and my pal Doc Velie, we did a little celebratin'. At least I did. 
MACREEDY What were you celebrating? 
TIM (shrugs) You name it. (studies Macreedy) What do you want? 
MACREEDY My name's Macreedy. I came in on the Streamliner. 
Tim studies him, trying to focus. 
TIM You what? 
MACREEDY I said I came in... 
TIM (interrupting) You ain't from around here. Up Tucson way -- Phoenix? Mesa? You ain't sellin' cattle nor seed nor nothin' like that? 
MACREEDY No. (sighs, then distinctly as to a child) All I want from you is a little information. I've got to get to a place called Adobe Flat. 
TIM (reacts; then, tight- lipped) This ain't no information bureau. 
Macreedy starts to say something, then stops. Reconsidering... 
MACREEDY One thing about Black Rock -- everybody's polite. Makes for gracious living. 
TIM Nobody asked you here. 
MACREEDY How do you know? (he moves toward the door, with a rueful grin) 
TIM (starting after him) What about Adobe Flat? 
MACREEDY I'm looking for a man named Komako. 
The Sheriff reaches for his bottle. In his haste he drops it. Macreedy's hand moves quickly, catching the bottle before it hits the floor. 
MACREEDY Almost a disaster. 
TIM (sinking back in his chair) A fate worse'n death. (he takes the bottle from Macreedy) You move fast for a crip... for a big man. 
For a moment heavy silence. Finally... 
MACREEDY What about Komako? 
TIM (slowly) If there's no further questions... 
Macreedy grins harshly and exits. Tim watches him go, then slowly reaches for the bottle. He pauses, looks at his shaking hand. Then he withdraws it and just sits in the chair staring blindly ahead, seeing nothing. 
EXT. STREET 
Frowning, deep in thought, Macreedy walks down the dusty street. As he reaches the hotel... 
SMITH (o.s.) Mr. Macreedy. 
Macreedy stops, looks toward Smith as he walks out to meet him. 
MACREEDY That's the friendliest word I've heard since I got here. 
As Smith joins him, he walks on. Smith falls in step beside him. GO WITH THEM. 
SMITH (grins boyishly) My name is Smith. I own the Triple- Bar ranch. (holds out his hand; Macreedy shakes it) I want to apologize for some of the folks in town. 
LIZ It'll be two dollars an hour, gas extra, and ten dollars for my time. 
SMITH (to Liz) Aren't you going to ask him where he wants to go? 
Liz looks from Smith to Macreedy, puzzled. 
SMITH He wants to go to Adobe Flat. 
Liz hesitates. Macreedy notes her confusion as her eyes seek Smith's for instructions. Quickly he moves in... 
MACREEDY The road's marked? 
LIZ (nodding) Yeah. It's about six -- seven miles down... 
MACREEDY Then I won't need your time. 
Macreedy hands her a bill. She fumbles with it, not knowing what else to do. Her eyes drift to Macreedy's stiff arm... 
LIZ (uneasily) I thought you might... need a little help. 
MACREEDY I can manage. 
He steps toward the jeep as... 
SMITH Liz. Do you have a license to rent cars? You could get into trouble. 
MACREEDY It's all right. I won't mention it to the Sheriff. 
He steps into jeep and, with one hand expertly manipulating the controls, drives off. 
MED. SHOT - SMITH AND LIZ 
Smith turns his attention to the girl... 
SMITH (slowly) You shouldn't have done that. 
LIZ I thought it would be better if he went out there and got done with it. (Smith looks at her sharply) I mean, what could he find out? 
For a moment Smith doesn't answer. Instead, with a half frown, he lifts the bill Macreedy had given her from Liz's hand. 
SMITH (as he studies it) This is liable to be the hardest ten dollars you ever earned in your life. 
He crumples it, pokes the wad in her hand and walks off down the street as... 
QUICK DISSOLVE: 
OUT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
INT. JAIL - FULL SHOT - DAY 
Tim sits in his chair, still staring sightlessly at the whiskey bottle. Smith enters. He looks from Tim to the bottle on the table, then back to Tim. 
SMITH (after a beat, disinterestedly) What did he want -- the stranger? 
TIM (abstractedly) He asked about Komako. (looking up at Smith) You think he'll kick up a storm? 
SMITH (easily) A storm? About what? 
TIM I don't know. All I know, I don't want trouble around here. (pauses awkwardly, then) Never again. 
SMITH Trouble? You don't know anything about Komako, now do you, Tim? 
TIM I do not. That's the point. 
OUT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - SMITH, COLEY AND PETE 
In b.g. at a respectful distance are Hector, Sam and Hastings. SHOOT parallel to tracks, which disappear far into the horizon. 
The following dialogue is delivered in an undertone... 
SMITH (turning to Coley) Now, Coley...? 
COLEY (takes a breath, then) I think Macreedy's a nothing. A nobody. 
SMITH Is he? 
COLEY So there's nothing to worry about. 
SMITH Isn't there? (a beat) You got brains, you have. 
COLEY (squirming) But what can he find out? That Komako was...? (Smith glares at him) Suppose he finds out? 
SMITH A nobody like Macreedy can raise a pretty big stink. The point is... who would miss a nobody like Macreedy if he just, say, disappeared? Who, Coley? 
Coley is terribly preoccupied, balances himself, like a child, on a steel rail. 
SMITH (exasperated) Coley! 
COLEY (galvanized from the rail) Huh? 
PETE Why don't we wait... 
SMITH Wait for what? 
PETE I mean, maybe he won't find anything. Maybe he'll just go away. 
SMITH Not Macreedy. I know those maimed guys. Their minds get twisted. They put on hair shirts and act like martyrs. They're all of 'em do- gooders, trouble makers, freaks. 
PETE But there's no danger yet. Let's wait and see. 
SMITH (interrupting, appealing to Coley as an equal) No danger, he says. This guy's like a carrier of small pox. Since he arrives, there's been a fever in this town, an infection. And it's spreading. (he glances from Coley to Pete) Hastings has been in a sick sweat, running around, shooting off his face. Doc, for the first time in four years, gets snotty with me. Liz... (to Pete) ...your own sister -- acts like a fool. 
PETE (hotly) She's just a kid. 
SMITH (scoffing) Kid! She must have strained every muscle in her head to get so stupid! Renting him a jeep! And Tim -- Tim, the rum-dum. Tim suddenly decides he's gotta act like a Sheriff. (to Coley, gesturing at Pete) And he says what's the danger. 
Brittle silence for a moment. Then... 
SMITH (easily) Of course, if you want to take the chance... 
Pete doesn't answer. 
COLEY (grimly) Not me. 
SMITH All right, then... 
PETE It's not all right! You're so mighty quick to kill -- he's not an animal! 
SMITH (to Coley, with mock surprise) Well, listen to little spitfire... (turning slowly on Pete) You sniveling toad! I'm saving your neck! If I don't, who will? 
PETE (squirming) All I said... 
SMITH Who will?! Doc? Tim? Your sister, with the rocks in her head? 
Pete is silent. 
EXT. BLACK ROCK - MAIN STREET CLOSE SHOT - HECTOR 
his long face even more horsey than usual, with half an apple in his mouth. He stands in front of the grocery store, with the baskets of fruit on the sidewalk. He looks up, stops crunching. 
CLOSE SHOT - SAM 
at the window of the Bar & Grill, cleaning an ear with a toothpick. He looks out. The toothpick is motionless. 
CLOSE SHOT - HASTINGS 
fidgeting outside his shack. He looks up. His Adam's apple turns completely over. 
OUT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
REVERSE SHOT - WHAT THEY SEE 
Macreedy slowly driving the jeep toward Liz's garage. He looks neither to the right nor left. 
GROUP SHOT - FAVORING SMITH AND COLEY 
Standing on the porch of the hotel, watching. Smith's face compresses, and his eyes swivel to rest on Coley's with cold, contemptuous anger. Coley licks his lips uneasily. Smith turns and enters the hotel. Coley meekly follows. 
FULL SHOT - MACREEDY 
He brakes the jeep before the garage. No one is there. He parks the vehicle, gets out and heads down the street. 
EXT. HOTEL 
Macreedy is about to go up the steps when he sees Coley's car at the curb. Both right fenders are creased. An ugly, jagged break has split the front bumper almost in half, one part angling crazily toward the sky, the other drooping in the dust of the road. Smith and Coley come out of the hotel. They stand on the porch, watching Macreedy as he in turn watches the car. They exchange a glance. Smith nods, so... 
COLEY Well, if it's not Macreedy - the world's champion road hog. 
He walks down the steps to the street, joining Macreedy. Smith remains on the porch. 
MACREEDY Yeah. It's a small world. 
COLEY But such an unfriendly one. Now why did you want to crowd me off the road? 
MACREEDY (with a slow grin) I'm kind of sorry if I've incurred your displeasure. 
COLEY Look what you did to my car. 
MACREEDY If there's anything I can do to make up for it... 
COLEY You ought to be careful, man -- all that one-arm driving. 
MACREEDY I'd be glad to pay the damages. 
COLEY It's a threat to life and limb. 
MACREEDY Fortunately no one was hurt. 
COLEY You could get yourself killed that way -- nosin' all over the countryside. 
MACREEDY That's the real danger, I can see that. 
COLEY Why that's pretty smart of you. How long you intend to keep it up? 
MACREEDY I'm getting out of here, right now. 
He walks up the steps, past Smith, and into the hotel. Coley glances up at Smith, grinning with self-satisfaction, like a small boy who has carried out perfectly the instructions of his teacher. 
INT. HOTEL 
MACREEDY It was, just a few hours ago. 
LIZ (flatly) Things change. 
MACREEDY (with grim amusement) Sure. And Smith is the kid who changes 'em. 
She doesn't answer. Macreedy goes to her. 
MACREEDY Miss Brooks. (softly) What's the matter with this town of yours? 
LIZ Nothing. It's none of your concern. 
MACREEDY Then why are they all so concerned about me? 
LIZ Am I concerned? 
MACREEDY No, you're not. But... 
LIZ But what? 
MACREEDY (easily) But it strikes me you're a little too unconcerned. So unconcerned you won't even rent me a jeep. 
LIZ (flaring) I don't run a taxi service. I don't have a license. 
MACREEDY I wish others in this town were as scrupulously devoted to law and order as you are. 
LIZ (hotly) Why don't you lay off! If you don't like it here, go back where you came from! 
MACREEDY Funny thing. They try to kill me, and you feel persecuted. 
LIZ I don't want to get involved. 
MACREEDY Involved in what? 
LIZ (retreating) Whatever you're up to. Whatever happens, I've got to go on living here. These people are my neighbors, my friends. 
MACREEDY All of them? 
LIZ (slowly) This is my town, Mr. Macreedy, like it or not. Whatever happened here, it was long ago, now it's... it's... 
MACREEDY (evenly) Dead and buried? (a beat) Whatever did happen, you don't seem to like it. Why do you stick around? 
LIZ (after a beat) Because of my brother. Pete. He'd never leave. 
MACREEDY Didn't you ever think of going without him. You're sort of independent and he's... he's... 
LIZ Weak. I know. That's why I couldn't leave him. 
MACREEDY (softly) What did your brother do? 
LIZ He... I... (flaring again) What do you care? What do you care about Black Rock? 
MACREEDY Nothing much. Only, there're not many places like this in America -- but even one is too many. Because I think something sort of bad happened here. (frowning) Something I can't find the handle to... 
LIZ You just think so. You don't know. 
MACREEDY This much I know -- the rule of law has been suspended in this town. The gorillas have taken over. 
LIZ You're a fine one to talk! You come in here, sneaking around, trying to steal the key to my jeep. 
MACREEDY I kind of had a notion that was the only way I could get it. 
She opens her mouth to answer, but she doesn't know what to say. 
MACREEDY (simply) Was I wrong, Miss Brooks? 
MACREEDY What's so funny? 
SMITH Nothing. It's just -- I don't believe you. I believe a man is as big as what he seeks. I believe you're a big man, Mr. Macreedy. 
MACREEDY Flattery will get you nowhere. 
SMITH Why would a man like you be looking for a lousy Jap farmer? 
MACREEDY Maybe I'm not so big. 
SMITH Yes, you are. (a beat; looking hard at Macreedy) I believe that a man is as big as the things that make him mad. Nobody around here has been big enough to make you mad. 
MACREEDY What makes you mad, Mr. Smith? 
SMITH Me...? Nothing in particular. 
MACREEDY (bemused) I see. You're a big man, too. Only... (calmly) ...the Japanese make you mad... 
SMITH That's different. After the sneak attack on Pearl Harbor... after Bataan... 
MACREEDY ...and Komako made you mad. 
SMITH It's the same thing. (scoffing) Loyal Japanese-Americans -- that's a laugh. They're mad dogs. Look at Corregidor, the death march. 
MACREEDY What did Komako have to do with Corregidor? 
SMITH Wasn't he a Jap? Look, Macreedy, there's a law in this county against shooting dogs. But if I see a mad dog loose, I don't wait for him to bite me. (exhales sharply, shaking his head with irritation) I swear, you're beginning to make me mad. 
MACREEDY (calmly) All strangers do. 
SMITH Not all. Some of 'em. When they come here snooping. 
MACREEDY Snooping for what? 
SMITH I mean, outsiders coming around, looking for something. 
MACREEDY (pressing) For what? 
SMITH I don't know. People are always looking for something in this part of the West. To the historian, it's the "Old West." To the book writers, it's the "Wild West." To the businessmen, it's the "Undeveloped West." They all say we're backward and poor, and I guess we are. (snorts) We don't even have enough water. (a beat) But this place, to us, is our West. (heatedly) I just wish they'd leave us alone. 
MACREEDY Leave you alone to do what? 
SMITH (coldly) I don't know what you mean. 
MACREEDY What happened to Komako? 
SMITH He went away, I told you. Shortly after he left, a bunch of kids got fooling around out his place. They burned it down. It was one of those things -- you know how kids are. 
Macreedy laughs quietly. 
SMITH What's funny? 
MACREEDY Nothing. Only -- I don't believe you. Any more than I believed you about the letters. 
SMITH (smiling) You don't seem to believe anything I say. 
MACREEDY (vaguely) Yes, I do -- about businessmen, for instance. I think a businessman would be interested in Adobe Flat. 
SMITH Why? 
MACREEDY All that land lying fallow. Could be put to some use. Like a graveyard. (Smith opens his mouth to speak but Macreedy goes on) A historian might be interested, too. Because of the strange customs around here, such as burying cattle... 
SMITH Burying cattle...? 
MACREEDY (calmly) Something's buried out there. 
a cubbyhole behind the hotel clerk's desk in the lobby. At the switchboard is Pete, and above him tacked on the wall is the sign: 
SMILE 
PETE (into phone) (he looks up) 
CAMERA PULLS BACK revealing Smith standing beside him. The two men exchange a nod. 
PETE (into phone) Lines 're busy. (he clicks off the instrument) 
INT. DOC'S LAB 
Macreedy slowly puts down the phone. Doc sips his milk, all the while staring queasily over the glass at Macreedy. He puts it down, his gaze still fixed on the stranger... 
DOC (sing-song) I know -- don't tell me -- lines all busy. They'll be busy all day. 
MACREEDY (after a beat, grimacing) Don't look at me like that. 
DOC Like what? 
MACREEDY Like I'm a potential customer. 
DOC Everybody is -- and I get 'em coming and going. 
He goes to a topographic map hanging on the wall -- a large, impressive map -- faded, fly-blown and divided into sections. 
DOC (gesturing toward it) First I sell 'em a piece of land. Think they farm it? Nope. They dig for gold. 
He moves to photograph beside the map on the wall -- a large, impressive photograph of a placer mine in operation. 
DOC They rip off the top soil of ten winding hills. They sprint in here, fog-heaved with excitement, lugging nuggets, big and bright and shiny. 
He moves to his desk, picks up a glistening blob of stone, resting next to an assayer's scales, and examines it... 
DOC (rhetorically) Is it gold? 
He bangs the rock down next to the scales. 
DOC It is not! Do they quit? They do not! 
He moves to a third illustration -- a colored reproduction, large and impressive -- of acres upon green acres of produce in bloom; the kind of picture Southern Pacific places above its calendars. 
DOC (with theatrical gesture toward reproduction) Then they decide to farm. Farm! In country so dry you have to prime a man before he can spit, and before you can say "Fat Sam" they're stalled, stranded and starving. They get weevil- brained and buttsprung... 
He moves to the coffins piled in a corner and runs his hand down the smooth pine sides with loving tenderness. 
DOC (simply) So I bury 'em. (a beat, as he rejoins Macreedy in the center of the room) But why should I bore you with my triumphs? 
MACREEDY Yeah. I've got a problem of my own. 
Doc nods; he points vaguely toward the street... 
DOC (like an old testament prophet) They're going to kill you with no hard feelings. 
MACREEDY (nastily) And you'll just sit on your hands and let them. 
DOC Don't get waspish with me, young feller. 
MACREEDY Sorry. 
DOC I feel for you, but I'm consumed with apathy. Why should I mix in? 
MACREEDY To save a life. 
DOC I got enough trouble saving my own. (he refills his glass from a milk bottle on the desk) I try to live right and drink my orange juice every day. But mostly I try to mind my own business. Which is something I'd advise you to do. 
HECTOR (triumphantly, holding up the wires) Yep. It's the wirin'. 
Still gripping the wires, he walks off. Doc simmers down. He turns to face Macreedy, who hasn't moved. Now Macreedy slowly lowers the hood of the car. 
DOC (softly, after a beat) I'm sorry, son. You got to admit, I tried. 
MACREEDY (as if to himself) Maybe... 
DOC Maybe what? 
MACREEDY If I can't get out of town, maybe I can get the state cops in. 
DOC (irritably) You tried the phone, didn't you? You know what happened, don't you? 
MACREEDY There's another way. I'll be seeing you, Doc. 
He walks off. Doc looks after him grimly. 
DOC (calling) I hope you'll be seeing me. 
QUICK DISSOLVE: 
INT. TELEGRAPH AGENT'S OFFICE 
Macreedy stands at the high counter, writing on a Postal Telegraph blank. Behind the counter, watching him nervously, is Hastings. At the agent's elbow is a big pitcher with dew on the glass. It holds a pale liquid and a chunk of ice. His eyes on Macreedy, Hastings refills a glass tumbler. He takes a gulp as Macreedy puts down the pencil and pushes the message toward him. Now Hastings puts down his glass, picks up the form and scans it hurriedly. He looks at Macreedy, eyes glazed with anxiety... 
HASTINGS You notifyin' the state po-lice? 
MACREEDY (putting a bill on the counter) That's what it says. 
Hastings again refills his glass, slopping the liquid over on the counter. He picks up the glass, hesitates, offers it awkwardly to Macreedy. 
HASTINGS (plaintively) Lemonade? 
Macreedy shakes his head. No. 
HASTINGS (mopping his forehead) It's hot as Billy-be-durned. 
He drinks, puts down the glass. Macreedy pushes the bill across the counter toward him. Hastings picks it up gingerly then pauses... 
HASTINGS Don't you like lemonade? 
MACREEDY I never thought much about it. 
HASTINGS It don't have the muzzle velocity of some other drinks drunk around here, but it's good for what ails you. 
MACREEDY (after a beat) What ails you, Mr. Hastings? 
HASTINGS Me...? 
MACREEDY Why are you so upset about... (points) ...this wire? 
HASTINGS Me...? 
MACREEDY Are you afraid, Mr. Hastings? 
HASTINGS Me...? (a beat, then softly) I guess I am. (awkwardly he puts Macreedy's bill back on the counter) But what's the use talkin'...? (with grudging respect) You don't know what it's like, being scared. 
MACREEDY (not unsympathetically) You want me to describe the symptoms? Right this minute I'm scared half to death. 
HASTINGS (simply) You should be. 
MACREEDY Yeah. But not of the state police. 
HASTINGS (stonily) Neither am I. 
Smith scans the message. He looks up to meet Macreedy's gaze. Smith rises. Hector swaggers over from the slot machine. Hastings slips around the back of the couch, protected by the barricade of Hector's great body. 
MACREEDY (evenly, to Smith) I think that's for me. (he takes the message from Smith's hand and quickly glances at it. Looking up at Hastings) Where's the answer? 
Hastings is silent. A brittle expression of bemusement crosses Smith's features. 
SMITH You expect an answer -- to a wire that's never sent? 
Macreedy's mouth compresses in a harsh grin. 
SMITH What's so funny? 
MACREEDY Nothing. Just a thought -- (his eyes turn to Hastings. Hastings wilts) -- a thought dazzling in its purity... 
Macreedy takes a step toward Hastings. The telegraph agent bounces away. 
MACREEDY (slowly) You're in a jam, Hastings. You gave my telegram to Smith. 
DOC (excitedly) You warty wretch! That's a federal offense! 
MACREEDY (to Smith) You're in deep, too. (grins hard) Like I said, it's getting tougher and tougher. (to Tim) Sheriff, you'd better do something about this. 
Tim hesitates, blinking his eyes worriedly, shifting from one stockinged foot to the other. Smith watches him insolently as he takes the message from Macreedy and gestures with it vaguely... 
TIM (to Smith) I reckon that's right, Mr. Smith... 
HECTOR Don't be a jerk, Tim. 
TIM (to Smith, seriously) Divulging information -- there's a law... 
SMITH Tim, you're pathetic. 
TIM (doggedly) Could be. But I'm still Sheriff. 
SMITH That's the point. You're not Sheriff any more. You just lost a job, you're so pathetic. 
He reaches out, clawing the badge from Tim's chest. He jabs it on Hector's vest. 
SMITH (to Hector) All right, Sheriff. Take over. 
DOC You can't do that! 
SMITH Can't I? I put him in office. Now I take him out. 
Hector moves his elephantine bulk within inches of Macreedy... 
HECTOR Now. You want to register a complaint? 
Macreedy doesn't answer. Hector takes the message from Tim's limp hand and tears it into little pieces. 
HECTOR To register a complaint, boy, you've got to have evidence. You got evidence? 
Macreedy doesn't answer. 
HECTOR You got a big mouth, boy, makin' accusations, disturbin' the peace. There's laws in this county protectin' innocent folks from big mouths. Why, I'd just hate to... 
SMITH (interrupting) Hector... (wearily) Come on, Hector. 
He walks out, the new Sheriff strutting beside him, with Hastings in their wake. For a moment Macreedy, Doc and Tim stand in the center of the lobby. Pete eyes them non- committally and goes back to his solitaire. He glances up now and then, moving the cards with a purposeful sort of slowness, as of a more natural swiftness restrained by his preoccupation with the three men in the lobby. 
Macreedy is deep in thought. Abstractedly he tugs at his collar and then repeats the ritual of lighting a cigarette. Tim's shoulders are slumped. Humiliation has corroded him, flesh and soul. Even Doc is momentarily subdued; he too, feels degraded, unclean. Macreedy looks from one to the other of the good, ineffectual companions that circumstance has so haphazardly tossed his way. He takes a few steps to his suitcase, Doc and Tim trailing him; Doc, for want of something better to do; Tim, out of his deep, inexpressible need for support. Macreedy takes an untapped bottle of whiskey from his bag. He thumbs the cork loose and holds the bottle out to Tim. Tim takes a drink. 
The light on the clerk's desk goes on, and we are aware that day has gone and that night is falling. The pressing, fierce light has drained from the lobby, leaving a shadowy, silvery dreariness. The shadows have lengthened and the silver has tarnished with the darkness. 
DOC (hopefully) It's all right, Tim. We're not licked yet. 
He continues to advance inexorably toward Pete. 
PETE (flatly) You shouldn' of got off. 
MACREEDY Had to. I had one last duty to perform before I resigned from the human race. 
DOC (quizzically) I thought you were going to Los Angeles, that hot-bed of pomp and vanity. Is that resigning from the human race? 
MACREEDY (shrugging) L.A.'s a good jumping off place -- for the Islands, for Mexico, Central America. 
DOC Why? 
MACREEDY (again shrugs) I don't know. I was looking for a place to get lost, I guess. 
DOC Why? 
MACREEDY (slapping his paralyzed arm with the whisky bottle) Because of this. I thought I'd never be able to function again. (turning to Pete) Thanks to your friend Smith, I found I was wrong. 
He is now within a couple of yards of Pete. 
PETE (drily) Sure. You're a man of action. 
MACREEDY (slowly) I know your problem. (with mounting vigor) You'd like me to die quickly, without wasting too much of your time... (Pete opens his mouth to say something, but Macreedy presses on) ...or silently, without making you feel too uncomfortable... or thankfully, without making your memories of the occasion too unpleasant. 
For a moment Pete stares at Macreedy, terribly disturbed by the incisiveness of Macreedy's analysis. Then... 
PETE (bitterly) My memories are so pleasant as it is... 
In sudden frustration, Pete grabs the deck of cards on the clerk's desk and slams them down hard. They scatter. He turns, stares blankly [...] between Doc and Macreedy. 
MACREEDY (quietly pressing his advantage) What happened, Pete? 
Pete doesn't answer. 
DOC Are you going to tell him -- or you want me to? (beat) Smith owns Adobe Flat. He leased it to Komako -- thought he had cheated him, thought Komako could never even run stock without water. There was never any water on Adobe Flat. Komako dug a well, by hand. He must have went down one hundred and fifty feet. 
PETE He got water, plenty. Smith was pretty sore. He didn't like Japs anyway. 
DOC That's an understatement. 
PETE The day after Pearl Harbor, Smith went to Sand City. 
MACREEDY (interrupting) I know. To enlist. He was turned down. 
PETE He was sore when he got back. About ten o'clock he started drinking. 
MACREEDY Ten o'clock in the morning. 
PETE Yeah. Hector joined him, and Coley. Then Sam, and about nine p.m. -- me. We were all drunk -- patriotic drunk. We went out to Komako's for a little fun, I guess -- scare him a little. 
MACREEDY Did you know him? 
PETE We'd seen him around some, but none of us knew him. When he heard us coming, he locked the door. Smith started a fire. The Jap came running out. His clothes were burning. Smith shot him. I didn't even know Smith had a gun. 
MACREEDY Then you all got scared, buried him, kept quiet. 
Pete nods helplessly, bowing his head. Macreedy sighs, looks down at the bottle in his hand, slowly puts it on the table... 
MACREEDY (softly) Did Komako have any family besides his son Joe? 
DOC (puzzled) His son...? Nobody around here knew he had a son. 
MACREEDY He had one. But he's dead, too. He's buried in Italy. 
DOC What are you doing here, Mr. Macreedy? 
EXT. PORCH - NIGHT 
The congregation of loafers look up as Hector emerges. Imbued with his own bullying importance, he draws the pistol, maneuvers an extravagant pinwheel and a few other gaudy tricks. Then he sighs as boredom again takes over. He walks down the steps to catch a bit of air. 
INT. LOBBY - DOC AND PETE 
The disappearance of Hector (o.s.) down the street galvanizes them into action. They hurry out of the lobby toward the back of the hotel. 
EXT. ALLEY - BEHIND HOTEL - NIGHT 
Vague in the pallid light escaping through a few back windows. The hotel's rear door is tightly shut. Around the far corner of the street (extreme b.g.) comes the gangling body of Hector David. He walks toward CAMERA. Perhaps twenty-five yards away he stops to rest against a fence like a leaning tower. 
CLOSE SHOT - HECTOR 
His hand goes to a pocket and comes out with a crumpled half pack of cigarettes. Suddenly the movement is arrested; something at the other end of the street captures his bleak attention. 
WHAT HE SEES 
A jeep, headlights off, slowly turns the corner, pulls up to the curb and parks. 
BACK TO SCENE - HECTOR 
pockets his cigarettes and starts slowly for the jeep, a quizzical frown on his horsy face. He approaches the back door of the hotel, oblivious to it as he continues toward the jeep. 
INT. REAR HALLWAY OF HOTEL - NIGHT 
At the far end b.g., toward the lobby, a single unshaded light bulb burns dully. A slight figure stands in f.g. To one side is a narrow U-shaped alcove blanketed in heavy shadows. The features of the man in the hall and the slim lines of his body blend vaguely in the darkness. With enormous care, he turns a knob and opens the door leading to the alley behind the hotel. Light thrown by the back windows reveals that the figure is Pete. The same pallid light from the alley, glancing across the alcove, momentarily illuminates it. Glued as close to the recessed wall as is humanly possible is Doc. He is partially shielded by one of those hotel hose wheels around which an old fire hose is wound. The heavy brass nozzle of the hose hangs from the end. 
Doc grips a twelve-inch length of lead pipe. Pete swallows nervously and peers outside, first to the right, then to the left. His eyes glaze with fear, and his jaw tightens with tension. 
EXT. ALLEY - ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING PETE 
as he stares at Hector walking toward the jeep. 
PETE (controlling his jangled nerves) Hector! 
Hector stops, turns to face Pete. He hesitates, then... 
HECTOR Hmmmm? 
Then, with a final glance at the jeep, Hector lumbers to Pete, who disappears inside the hallway. 
INT. REAR HALLWAY 
as Hector enters and stops. Pete quickly closes the door behind him and walks toward the lobby, attempting to draw Hector toward the black alcove center screen b.g. But Hector is not to be sucked in. He glares at Pete, waiting. (NOTE: The following dialogue is delivered sotto voce.) 
HECTOR What you want? 
PETE He's still in his room. Macreedy, I mean. 
HECTOR So...? You want me to tuck him in? 
PETE I thought maybe you wanted to tell Smith. 
HECTOR (explaining something he feels Pete already knows) Smith said he'd be here at midnight. He don't want to be disturbed. 
He jams a cigarette in his mouth. Pete watches him frantically as he searches his pockets for a match. He can't find one. 
HECTOR You got a match? 
PETE Come on. I got some in the lobby. 
He starts to turn. Hector's pig eyes are slits of suspicion. Before Pete can move, Hector reaches out, hooking two heavy fingers inside a pocket of Pete's shirt. Slowly Hector's expression changes to one of insidious cunning. His fingers come out of Pete's pocket, and between them is a paper book of matches. 
HECTOR I thought you didn't have a match. 
He drives his right fist against Smith's chin. Smith's head snaps back as far as it can go and then wobbles to rest on his chest. He collapses. Macreedy blows out his breath hard. He staggers to Liz. As he bends over her... 
DISSOLVE: 
EXT. BLACK ROCK - DAY (DAWN) 
Liz's jeep, driven by Macreedy, rolls slowly down the empty main street of the sleeping town. Behind him, under a tarp, the body of the girl lies lifeless across the seat. On the seat beside him is Smith's rifle, the balance a few inches from Macreedy's elbow. On the right front fender of the jeep Smith sits precariously, his shirt scorched and ragged. He wears a sullen expression of pained indifference. 
In b.g., as the jeep passes, isolated lights go on, first in Doc's house, then in two or three others. Macreedy is oblivious to them. 
EXT. JAIL - CLOSE SHOT - A MAN 
almost completely hidden, looks out grimly from a corner of the jail window. Protruding through the bars, swiveling to follow the progress of the jeep down the street, is the long, ugly muzzle of a rifle. 
EXT. MAIN STREET - JEEP 
as Macreedy pulls up to the curb in front of the jail and cuts the ignition. He grabs the rifle, and steps around to Smith. 
MACREEDY (tonelessly, prodding Smith off the fender with his rifle) Hands behind your head. 
Smith complies. 
EXT. JAIL 
as Macreedy marches Smith up the steps. The jail door opens. A man emerges, wearing a Mackinaw over his vest and carrying a rifle. It is Tim. For a moment Macreedy eyes him in silence. His gun finger tightens on the rifle in his hand. Tim's rifle, too, is at the ready... 
MACREEDY (after a beat) Am I going to have trouble with you? 
TIM Nope. But I sure thought the situation was going to be like reversed. I thought I was going to have trouble... (nodding sharply in Smith's direction) ...with him. I'll take care of him. 
MACREEDY (still hesitating) Just as you took care of his buddies? 
TIM Just as I took care of his buddies. Me, an' Doc, and Pete... 
The SOUND of running feet padding along the dirt road increases on SOUND TRACK. Macreedy turns slightly, to see Doc huffing toward him. The older man climbs the jail steps and comes to an abrupt halt, his eyes going from one to the other of the two men in the stand-off. 
DOC (to Macreedy) It's all right, Macreedy... 
He pulls Tim's Mackinaw to one side, revealing the silver- plated star pinned at the breast. 
DOC Old Tim here's got his badge back. 
Macreedy swings his rifle from Tim to Smith. Tim lowers his, stepping to one side, allowing Smith, covered by Macreedy, to enter the jail. He goes in, Doc following. Pete sits silently at Tim's desk. 
INT. JAIL 
In one of the two cells are Coley and Hector. In the other, Sam and Hastings. 
MACREEDY (looking around) Well. The gang is all here. 
TIM I thought I'd take one last whack at my job. Even if Smith killed me for it. 
MACREEDY (jerking his head toward Smith) Put him in with Hastings. 
Tim turns his key in the cell door. Macreedy tiredly goes to Pete at the desk. 
MACREEDY Your sister's outside, Pete. 
Pete rises. Macreedy halts him momentarily, gripping his arm... 
MACREEDY (flatly) She's dead. 
Pete walks dazedly out the door. Tim grabs Smith's shoulder and propels him roughly through the cell door. He slams it hard. As the clatter of the iron door reverberates harshly... 
DISSOLVE: 
