BADLANDS 
by Terence Malick 
Final Version Dialogue and Continuity 
FADE IN 
INT. BEDROOM 
The time is 1959. HOLLY SARGIS, the 15-year-old heroine, sits on her bed, petting her dog. The CAMERA DOLLIES BACK as she talks on VOICE OVER. 
HOLLY (v.o.) My mother died of pneumonia when I was just a kid. My father had kept their wedding cake in the freezer for ten whole years. After the funeral he gave it to the yardman... He tried to act cheerful, but he could never be consoled by the little stranger he found in his house. Then, one day, hoping to begin a new life away from the scene of all his memories, he moved us from Texas to Ft. Dupree, South Dakota. 
HOLD on FULL SHOT of bedroom. 
DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. ALLEYS AND STREETS - SERIES OF ANGLES - DAWN 
The streets and alleys of Ft. Dupree at dawn. On sound we hear the clucking of DOVES. A garbage truck appears. Details of the mechanisms at the back of the truck. 
NEW ANGLE 
KIT CARRUTHERS, the hero, a 25-year-old garbageman, kneels beside a dead dog. He inspects it briefly. then looks back at his friend and co-worker, CATO, a stocky man in his forties. 
KIT I'll give you a dollar to eat this collie. 
Cato inspects the dog. 
CATO I'm not going to eat him for a dollar... I don't think he's a collie, either. Some kind of dog. 
They drive off. 
KIT Watch your heads. 
NEW ANGLE 
The truck comes to a stop. Kit bangs on the driver's door. 
KIT Hey. Woody. Gimme a cigarette. 
WOODY waves him off. Kit shrugs to Cato. 
KIT Woody wouldn't give me a cigarette. (pause) Ever notice he don't talk much? 
Cato agrees with this. They make a terrible racket, with no regard for the sleep of the neighbors. 
EXT. STREET 
Holly, whispering some rhyme to herself, twirls a baton in the middle of an empty street. 
KIT Listen, Holly. you want to take a walk with me? 
HOLLY What for? 
KIT Well. I got some stuff to say. Guess I'm kind of lucky that way. Most people don't have anything on their minds, do they? 
Holly eyes him suspiciously. 
EXT. STREET 
They walk down the middle of the street. Holly has accepted his offer. 
KIT Oh, incidentally, my last name is Carruthers. Sounds a little too much like “druthers,” doesn't it? 
HOLLY It's okay. 
KIT Well, nobody asked me what I thought. They just hung it on me. 
Holly breaks the silence that follows. 
HOLLY You still in school? 
KIT Nah, I got me a job. 
HOLLY (o.c.) Doing what? 
KIT Well, I don't mind getting up early, so I got a job throwing garbage... I'm not in love with the stuff, okay. 
In the distance we hear Holly's FATHER calling her. She eases off. 
HOLLY That's my father. I got to run. 
KIT Hey. wait a minute. When am I going to see you again? 
Holly isn't sure how to reply. 
HOLLY Well, I know what my daddy's going to say. 
KIT (o.c.) What? 
HOLLY Can I be honest? 
KIT Sure. 
HOLLY Well, that I shouldn't be seen with anybody that collects garbage. 
KIT (o.c.) He'll say that? 
HOLLY Yeah. 
KIT (o.c.) Now what's he know about garbage, huh? 
The Clerk gives him a slip of paper. 
EXT. FRONT PORCH OF HOLLY'S HOUSE 
Holly sees Kit approaching the house. 
HOLLY (v.o.) He was handsomer than anybody I'd ever met. He looked just like James Dean. 
She walks out the front door. 
KIT Hi. 
HOLLY Well, stop the world. 
KIT Quit my job. 
HOLLY Great. 
KIT Just seemed like the right move... Whatcha doing? 
HOLLY Spanish. 
KIT (o.c.) How do you say "Quit my Job" in Spanish? 
HOLLY Something mi trabajo. 
Kit offers her a cigarette, which she declines. 
KIT Yeah, well, I'm going to work as a cowboy now... Or thinking about it. It's a routine, like anything. What do you think? 
HOLLY I don't know. 
He pulls himself up onto the bannister beside her. 
KIT Well, at least nobody could get on me about wearing these boots any more. 
She watches him intently. This makes him uncomfortable. 
KIT You want to go for a ride? 
HOLLY Well, I got homework. 
KIT (o.c.) Bring it along. 
His forwardness surprises her. 
EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET IN FT. DUPREE 
They are walking through the downtown area. Kit kicks a paper bag that someone has discarded on the sidewalk. 
KIT Somebody dropped a bag on the sidewalk. 
She gives him a cold look. 
HOLLY Don't call me stupid. 
KIT Okay, but I'm going to keep it for a souvenir... 
He throws it awav and picks up a smaller one. 
KIT Or maybe one that's lighter. 
He walks over to the car. A bridge is visible in the distance. 
EXT. FIELD 
Kit releases a large red balloon into the evening sky. A small basket is fixed to the bottom of the balloon. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Kit made a solemn vow that he would always stand beside me and let nothing come between us. He wrote this out in writing, put the paper in a box with some of our little tokens and things, then sent it off in a balloon he'd found while on the garbage route. (pause) His heart was filled with longing as he watched it drift off. Something must've told him that we'd never live these days of happiness again, that they were gone forever. 
DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. CATTAILS 
Holly's dog bounds through a stand of cattails. Holly speaks angrily to her father, who walks toward the dog with a gun. We do not hear their voices, only music. He shoots the dog and Holly runs off in horror. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Then, sure enough, Dad found out I'd been running around behind his back. He was madder than I'd ever seen him. As punishment for deceiving him, he went and shot my dog. 
EXT. BRIDGE 
Holly's father drags a duffel bag out of his truck and dumps it over the side of a bridge, into a river. It goes under briefly, then bobs to the surface. The current takes it off. 
DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. MUSIC SCHOOL 
Holly sits in the second-story window of a music school. 
HOLLY (v.o.) He made me take extra music lessons every day after school and wait there till he came to pick me up. He said that if the piano didn't keep me off the streets. maybe the clarinet would. 
DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. BILLBOARD 
Kit approaches Holly's father, who is hard at work, painting a billboard along a deserted stretch of road. Kit is eating a peach. 
KIT Sure is pretty. 
FATHER What'd you come out here for? 
KIT I wasn't aware there was any law against it. 
Kit sees that this kind of talk will not do. He is silent for a moment, then throws the peach away. 
Kit draws the pistol. He is shaken, though he must have seen this coming. 
FATHER What do you think you're doing? Go on, get out of here. 
KIT Well, I got it all planned... and I'm taking Holly off with me. 
He looks at Holly, who has appeared on the landing, uncertain what her reaction to all this will be. 
FATHER Okay, boy, I'm turning you over to the authorities. 
Kit steps forward as Holly's father starts down the stairs. 
KIT What for? 
FATHER For coming onto my property... With a gun. 
KIT No, you're not either. 
FATHER (o.c.) Yeah? Why not? 
KIT Cause I can't allow it. 
Holly's father stares at him for a moment, then continues down the stairs. Kit starts forward. 
KIT Hey... Hey, wait a minute. 
His shout arrests Holly's father at the bottom of the stairs. 
KIT Suppose I shot you. How'd that be? Huh? 
Holly's father does not move. 
KIT You want to hear what it sounds like? 
He fires a shot into the stairs. The report is deafening in the enclosure of the stairwell. They exchange looks. Kit's breathing is heavy. 
INT. LIVING ROOM 
Holly's father turns and walks into the living room. Kit rushes down the stairs. Holly shouts his name. 
KIT Hey, where you going? 
He fires two shots into Holly's father, who slowly sinks to the floor. Kit unlimbers his shoulder. Holly rushes down the stairs to her father's side. 
HOLLY Daddy... This is Holly... Are you going to be okay? 
Her father does not respond. She looks back at Kit, who avoids her gaze. She gets to her feet and walks nto the kitchen. Kit follows her. 
INT. KITCHEN 
Kit closes the back door to the house. 
HOLLY Listen, maybe we ought to tell somebody about this. 
KIT You said that once already... Too late now. 
HOLLY Why? 
KIT They're not going to listen to me. You either. Are you kidding? 
A silence follows. 
HOLLY Suppose the neighbors heard the noise? 
KIT Wouldn't be funny... Listen, I'll be back in a while. 
He gets up and heads for the front door. 
KIT Oh... You want to call the police, that's fine. Just won't be so hot for me. 
There are tears in Holly's eyes now. They exchange looks as Kit opens the front door. Then he leaves. Holly settles back on the couch. 
EXT. HOLLY'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
The house by night. 
INT. HALLWAY AND BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Holly comes up the stairs, smoking a cigarette. She walks to her bedroom window. The CAMERA DOLLIES with her. Outside, under the street lamp, she can see two boys trading secrets. 
INT. TRAIN STATION - NIGHT 
Kit puts fifty cents into a gramophone booth. He clears his voice as the machine whirs Into operation. 
KIT My girl Holly and I have decided to kill ourselves, same way I did her dad. Big decision huh? Well, the reasons are obvious, and I don't have time to go into them right now... One thing, though... He was provoking me when I popped him. That's what it was like, a POP. 
Inserts of the booth's mechanism a light panel measuring off the seconds and the needle on the record. 
KIT Course nobody's coming out of this thing happy, especially not us. You can't deny we've had fun, though. Which is more than I can say for some.... Mmmm. that's the end of the message. I run out of things to say... Thank you. 
He gets these last words in just as his time is up. He gets the record and steps outside the booth, into the lobby of a train station. 
DISSOLVE TO 
INT. HOLLY'S LIVING ROOM - SERIES OF ANGLES - NIGHT 
Kit slams a ten-gallon can of gasoline down on the piano bench, opens it and begins pouring it out over the interior of the house, kicking aside everything that comes in his way. 
EXT. REAR OF HOUSE - NIGHT 
Holly comes out the screen door at the back of the house, carrying a suitcase and a painting. Kit appears with a lamp on an extension cord. He sets it down beside a victrola he has set up on a table outdoors. He puts the needle on the record he recorded earlier. Holly watches him as she retreats to the car. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Kit left a record playing over and over for the District Attorney to find. He was gambling for time. 
The CAMERA PANS off Holly's painting, a Maxwell Parrish, onto Kit asleep with his pistol beside him. then onto Holly under a quilt with a box of shells beside her. Her hand quivers once. 
EXT. TREE TOPS 
Kit lifts an egg out of a bird's nest at the top of a tree. He drops it down to Holly, fifty feet below. 
HOLLY (v.o.) They hadn't found but one set of bones in the ashes of the house. so we knew they'd be looking for us. Kit made sure we'd be prepared. 
EXT. TRAIL - SERIES OF ANGLES 
Kit cuts a piece of twine that lies across a trail, whereupon a ball full of spikes comes swinging down out of the trees. with lethal force. Kit ducks out of the way. We next see Kit with a dew ag around his forehead, running laps through the woods as part of his training. He exhorts himself to greater effort. 
HOLLY (v.o.) He gave me lectures on how a gun works, how to take it apart and put it back together again. in case 1 had to carry on without him. He said that if the Devil came at me, I could shoot him with a gun. 
EXT. TAMARISK 
Holly struggles through the undergrowth witha yoke over her shoulders, carrying wood back to the teahouse. 
HOLLY (v.o.) One day, I carried thirty pounds of wood a distance of five miles. Another day, while hiding in the forest, I covered my eyes with makeup, to see how they'd come out. 
TIGHT ON HOLLY'S EYES 
Holly has made her eyes up with mascara. 
EXT. FRONT OF TREEHOUSE 
Kit and Holly dance the stroll to the sound of Mickey and Sylvia on their Zenith portable. Holly shows a better sense of rhythm than Kit. 
EXT. MUD FLAT BESIDE RIVER - DUSK 
Kit lifts a fish out of the river with a crude device like a lacrosse net. Holly sits on the bank In the b.g. The fish wriggles out of the net and falls back In the water. Kit struggles in vain to retrieve it. 
HOLLY (v.o.) We had our bad moments, like any couple. Kit accused me of only being along for the ride,while at times I wished he'd fall in the river and drown, so I could watch. 
Kit throws his net down in disgust, partly at Holly. 
KIT Take a break. Red... Life of Riley, huh? 
Holly ignores him as he walks off down the flat. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Mostly. though. we got along fine and stayed in love. 
EXT. FRONT OF TREEHOUSE 
Holly, in curlers, walks over to where Kit is shaving. 
HOLLY One of the chickens died last night. 
She pats a little water on her face, dries it with a burlap towel, picks up a hatchet and walks off into the forest to cut the morning's firewood. 
HOLLY I almost stepped on him. 
KIT Okay. 
CATO I'll catch up with you. 
KIT Okay. 
Kit walks out into the field to join Holly. Cato turns back. 
HOLLY I found a lid. It was laying on the ground over there. 
KIT Put that down. It's dirty. 
Holly tosses the lid at him. He picks up some dirt clods and starts throwing them at her. She squeals and dodges. CATO watches them for a while, indecisive, then turns and runs. 
HOLLY (o.c.) Hey, you're throwing big ones! 
Suddenly, Kit spots Cato. 
KIT Cato! 
Cato jumps over a trough and comes to a stop in front of his truck, a water tanker. 
CATO The shovel's in the truck. 
Kit raises his gun and shoots Cato through the belly. CATO falls, then gets to his feet and stumbles toward the front door of the house. Kit follows him for a while, then skips forward and opens the door for him. 
INT. BEDROOM 
Cato falls on his bed and rolls over to face Kit. Kit walks in calmly and picks up a photo on the bureau. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Kit never let on why he'd shot Cato. He said that just talking about it could bring us bad luck and that right now we needed all the luck we could get. 
Kit sets the photo down. 
KIT (o.c.) You never told me about her. 
He looks under the bed, then walks out the door. 
INT. LIVING ROOM 
Holly stands near a window. smoking a cigarette. Kit sets his rifle down and surveys the room, which is cluttered with odds and ends. 
KIT Look at all this junk. 
HOLLY How's he doing? 
KIT (shrugging) I got him in the stomach. 
Holly sits down. 
HOLLY Is he upset? 
KIT He said not to tell. 
BOY (o.c.) Oh yeah? 
KIT Yeah, he said for you to give us a lift into town. You're the ones with the Studebaker, aren't you? 
The Boy hesitates a second, then starts for the house. 
BOY Well, I just need to pick up something in the house. 
Kit draws his gun. 
KIT No... You go in there, I'll have to kill you. 
BOY What's going on? 
KIT Can't afford to take chances. 
The Girl is baffled. 
KIT (o.c.) Come on out of there, young lady. 
Kit waves them out into the neighboring field with him. 
KIT Let's us step out in this field here. 
The Boy raises his hands. 
KIT Nah, skip that... I'm going to have to keep an eye on you, though. 
BOY Okay. 
KIT You don't mind? 
Holly steps out the front door and smiles at the girl. 
HOLLY Hi. 
EXT. FIELD 
Holly and the girl walk through the field toward a storm cellar where the boys are waiting for them. The wind is blowing hard. 
GIRL What's going to happen to Jack and me? 
HOLLY You have to ask Kit. He says frog, I jump. 
GIRL Okay. 
HOLLY What's your friend's name? 
GIRL Jack. 
Kit, rifle in hand, lumbers out a side door of the house with Cato over his shoulder. He steers for a nearby box car that evidently served Cato as a shed. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Kit was the most trigger happy person I'd ever met. He claimed that as long as you're playing for keeps and the law is coming at you, it's considered okay to shoot all witnesses. You had to take the consequences, though, and not whine about it later. 
Kit opens the doors of the box car. and dumps Cato inside. Before closing the doors he checks Cato's shoes. to see if they are the ones he gave him. Holly looks on from the side of the house, twenty yards away. 
HOLLY We're in for it now... If they catch us. 
Kit looks cornered and defensive. Holly thinks for a moment. 
HOLLY What'd you put him in there for? 
KIT (shrugging) Just to keep him out of the sun. 
Kit heads out of sight around the rear of the box car. Holly goes back inside. Kit walks up and down the length of the box car, talking under his breath and throwing his rifle from hand to hand, in a state. 
DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD 
Kit and Holly travel down a country road in the Studebaker. 
HOLLY (v.o.) At this moment I didn't feel shame or fear, but just kind of blah, like when you're sitting there and all the water's run out of the bathtub. 
INT. CAR 
Kit, driving, turns to Holly. 
KIT You tired? 
HOLLY Yeah. 
KIT Yeah, you look tired... Listen, honey. when all this is over, I'm going to sit down and buy you a big, thick steak. 
HOLLY I don't want a steak. 
KIT Well, we'll see about that... Hey, lookie. 
He nods at a wrecked car lying in a ditch beside the road. 
KIT They're probably going to blame that on me, too, bastards. 
VIGILANTE MONTAGE - SERIES OF ANGLES - BLACK AND WHITE 
Various shots characterizing the Midwest's reaction to Kit and Holly a deserted street, law officers posing with their guns and ammunition, children walking from class under armed guard, a detective in a trench coat pointing at a pump, a woman calling in her children at dusk, a county official posing with the county records, the court reporter with a book of signatures, vigilantes signing up and being deputized, then riding through the streets of their town in the backs of pickups, a priest among them, etc. 
HOLLY (v.o.) The whole country was out looking for us, for who knew where Kit would strike next? Sidewalks were deserted. Stores closed their doors and drew their blinds. Posses and vigilante committees were set up from Texas to North Dakota. Children rode back and forth to school under heavy guard. A famous detective was brought in from Boston. He could find no clues ... My clarinet teacher said I probably wasn't responsible, but others said I was. Then, on Thursday, the Governor of Oklahoma sent out the National Guard to stand watch at the Federal Reserve Bank in Tulsa when word got out that Kit meant to rob it... It was like the Russians had invaded. 
EXT. RICH MAN'S HOUSE 
Kit and Holly approach a large Victorian mansion. Kit rings the bell. 
Holly, in the next angle, has moved a bust off its pedestal onto the corner of a piano. She thinks better of this and restores the bust to its original position. 
Kit sniffs at a glass of sherry, then takes a picture off the mantel and studies it. 
Holly, at the other end of the room. tests the comforts of a chair. This done. she moves to another chair and tests it, too. She makes her hand limp. She watches it swing back and forth. 
Kit sits in the chair which the Rich Man occupied earlier. He has a thoughtful look on his face. There is a dictaphone on the table beside him. 
INT. HALLWAY 
Holly takes a cane out of the umbrella rack, looks around furtively, then steps out a side door of the house. 
EXT. LAWN 
Holly walks down the slope of the lawn. 
HOLLY (v.o.) I left Kit in the parlor and went for a stroll outside the house. The day was quiet and serene, but I didn't notice, for I was deep in thought, and not even thinking about how to slip off. 
Across the way she can see a long driveway, with a border of lush greenery and a sleepy cat standing in the sun. 
HOLLY (v.o.) The world was like a faraway planet to which I could never return... I thought what a fine place it was, full of things for people to look into and enjoy. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - TIGHT ON KIT 
Kit talks into the dictaphone, recording some advice for young people. 
KIT Listen to your parents and teachers. They got a line on most things, so don't treat them like enemies. There's always a chance you could learn something. (he pauses for a moment) Try to keep an open mind. Try to understand the viewpoint of others. Consider the minority opinion, but try to get along with the majority opinion once it's accepted. (again he pauses) Course Holly and I've had fun, even if it has been rushed, and... so far we're doing fine. hadn't got caught. (annoyed) Excuse the grammar. 
He sets down the dictaphone. puts out his cigarette and leans back in his chair, lost in reflection. 
INT. COVERED ROOM 
Holly enters the room where the Rich Man and his Maid have been put. The furniture and paintings are covered with sheets, suggesting that for some purpose, known only to the family, the room has been set aside. 
HOLLY Hi... Kit's downstairs playing with the dictaphone... Sometimes he acts like there's something wrong with his bean. 
She leans against the window. behind the couch where the Rich Man is sitting. 
HOLLY Hope nothing ever goes wrong with mine. 
RICH MAN Think he's crazy, huh? 
HOLLY I don't know... He's kind of odd. 
She sits down beside the Rich Man. 
HOLLY (shyly) They claim I've got him wrapped around my little finger, but I never told him to shoot anybody. 
She looks the room over. 
HOLLY Gosh, I like your house. 
KIT Hi, whatcha doing? 
RICH MAN Just thinking. 
KIT Good a way to kill time as any... She okay? 
He points to the Maid with his pistol. 
RICH MAN Yes. 
KIT Listen, ah ... We're going to take the Cadillac for a while. How'd that be? 
RICH MAN Fine. 
KIT Don't worry, I won't let her drive. 
He means Holly. 
KIT (continuing) Oh, and here's a list of everything we borrowed. Car's on there, too. 
He gives the list to the Rich Man and signals the Maid to accompany them out. 
KIT Okay, ma'am, let's go . . . come on. 
INT. HALLWAY 
Kit points the Rich Man and his Maid into a closet. 
KIT You're my friend, aren't you? 
RICH MAN Yes. 
KIT Okay, no monkey business then. 
He locks the door of the closet once they are inside, starts off, then remembers something, takes a handkerchief out of his pocket and wipes his fingerprints off the door handle. 
KIT Groceries. 
With this reminder he collects his bag of groceries and heads down the hall. 
EXT. FRONT PORCH 
Kit and Holly come out the front door. Holly wears a shawl over her head as a disguise, Kit wears the outfit he took off the Rich Man's coat rack. He carries his groceries, rifle and a silver trophy he stole from somewhere in the house. 
KIT That guy could sell that list I gave him as a sample of my handwriting. 
Holly starts off, 
KIT (continuing) Hey, why're you always walking ahead of me? 
HOLLY Well, why you always walking behind me? 
The Cadillac heads overland, along a line of telephone poles that stretches out clear to the horizon. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Through desert and mesa, across the endless miles of open range, we made our headlong way, steering by the telephone lines toward the mountains of Montana. 
DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. MOUNTAIN 
Heat waves rise off the land. A mountain is barely discernible in the distance. 
DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. BADLANDS 
The Cadillac races through a herd of cows, 
HOLLY (v.o.) Kit'd sometimes ram a cow, to save on ammo, and we'd cook it. 
CLOSE ON SALT GRASS 
Tight shot of a clump of salt grass. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Once we had to eat a bunch of salt grass. It tasted like cabbage. 
EXT. BADLANDS - DAWN 
THE CAMERA RISES over the Cadillac as it races down a deserted country road at dawn, 
EXT. PIPELINE WAYSTATION 
The Cadillac is stopped beside a pipeline waystation. Kit has tapped some gas off the head. 
HOLLY (v.o.) For gas we used the leakage from the valves of the pipelines we found along the way. Drip gas is what they call it in that part of the country. 
DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. BADLANDS 
The Cadillac roars through a stand of mesquite and disappears into the distance. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Little by little we approached the border. Kit was glad to leave South Dakota behind and cursed its name. He said that if the Communists ever dropped the atomic bomb, he wished they'd put it right in the middle of Rapid City. 
EXT. CAMPSITE 
They are camped out in the middle of the badlands. Kit cooks some meat over a fire, Holly, with a map under her arm, points into the distance. 
HOLLY That's Montana over there. 
KIT I never been to Montana... Acquaintance of mine has, but I hadn't... Never had any reason to. 
Holly sits down and looks at the map. 
EXT. RAIL TRESTLE 
Kit and Holly have parked the Cadillac under a rail trestle. A train is approaching. They hide beside the car. The train, a streamliner, roars overhead. When it has passed, Holly rushes up the grade to watch it disappear into the distance. Kit watches from the opposite end of the trestle. 
KIT Maybe we should've tried to hop it. 
HOLLY It was going too fast. 
KIT I could've pulled the car up on the tracks, slowed it down some. 
HOLLY (o.c.) Yeah, then we'd be stuck here. 
KIT Well, maybe we oughta be stuck here. I'm not saying that I know. 
He stoops down and picks up a Pepsi bottle. 
HOLLY You're crazy. 
He climbs over the edge of the trestle, looks back at her oddly, then leaps down to the ground. Holly walks down to meet him. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Kit took the bottle and spun it around, leaving to fate which direction we should take. 
TIGHT ON BOTTLE 
Kit spins the bottle. 
EXT. BOTTOM OF TRESTLE 
The bottle comes to a stop. Kit inspects its position. He does not appear satisfied, though. 
KIT Well, maybe the slope here is throwing it off some. We ought to find a more flat place. 
HOLLY How about over here? 
Kit starts toward her, then changes his mind and heads back up the grade, to the tracks. The CAMERA DOLLIES and CRANES with him. 
KIT Never mind. It doesn't matter... If I'm worth a damn, I'll pick the right direction. And if I'm not, well, I don't care. See what I mean? 
HOLLY (o.c.) No. 
KIT Well, I shouldn't expect miracles, should I? 
He stops at the top of the grade and looks out across the Badlands. 
KIT We'll keep on heading for that mountain... Just remember I said it wasn't such a hot idea. 
DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. TRESTLE - DUSK 
The Cadillac pulls out from under the trestle and heads down a dusty road alongside the tracks. 
KIT You smoke Pall Mall? 
HOLLY Yeah. 
He is surprised to discover this. 
KIT Nah, you hadn't seen me when I'm going after something, honey. Tough? 
He cocks his head just thinking about it. She reaches for the radio to change the station. He pats her hand away. 
KIT Hey. don't touch that... Nat King Cole. 
EXT. BADLANDS - NIGHT 
They dance in the headlights to the tune of "A Blossom Fell" coming over the car radio. She is wearing the rich man's jacket. After a moment Kit whispers in her ear. 
KIT Boy, if I could sing a song like that... I mean, if I could sing a song about the way I feel right now, it'd be a hit. 
They continue dancing. 
EXT. CADILLAC ON PLAINS - DAY 
Two shots of the Cadillac heading across the Badlands at dawn. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Kit knew the end was coming. He wondered if he'd hear the doctor pronounce him dead, or if he'd be able to read what the papers would say about him,the next day, from the other side. He dreaded the iea of being shot down alone, he said, without a girl to scream out his name. 
INT. CADILLAC - DAWN 
Holly yawns with fatigue. 
HOLLY (v.o.) Then, for an instant, the sight of the mountains in the dawn light got his hopes back up. 
Kit shakes his head with admiration and wonder. 
KIT God, what a sight... Tell me this, honey. What does a little Texas girl like yourself think of a sight like that? 
She turns to look at the mountains. 
EXT. MOUNTAINS - THEIR POV 
Mountains in the distance closer now than ever before. 
DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. OIL RIG 
The Cadillac drives up to an oil rig. Kit gets out of the car. 
KIT Love this air. 
The ROUGHNECK in charge of the rig steps out of his trailer. It seems there is nobody else around. 
He starts off in the direction of the car, but Holly calls him back. 
HOLLY I don't want to. 
Kit looks at her. surprised. 
KIT Have you got a better idea? 
HOLLY I just don't want to go. 
KIT What? 
She shrugs. He stares at her for a moment, then bows his head and walks off a distance. 
KIT What is wrong with you, huh? 
He kicks wildly at dust. 
KIT What is the matter with you, huh!? 
Meanwhile, the helicopter continues its approach. Kit walks in closer to Holly. 
KIT Boy, I don't know what to make of you. People like you. 
He kicks at the rigs then turns back to face her. 
KIT You want a second chance, then listen. Twelve noon the Grand Coulee Dam, New Year'ss Day. 1964. You meet me there... Now you got that? 
She nods, bewildered. The helicopter is landing. He grabs a discarded fender off the truck, hangs it over his arm like a shield and runs to the Cadillac, exchanging shots with a State Trooper who has arrived in the helicopter. The Trooper is hit and falls. Kit jumps in the car and roars off. Holly surrenders herself to the pilot of the helicopter and is taken off. 
EXT. GAS STATION 
Kit pulls into a gas station. He gets out of his car and drums on the roof. 
KIT Hey, anybody here? 
An ATTENDANT walks out the door. 
KIT Hi... Say,, you got any shells for a Savage, a .300 Savage? 
ATTENDANT Nope. 
KIT Damn. I pissed all mine away shooting up bottles... You want to fill her up for me? Please? 
The Attendant nods. Kit pulls Holly's suitcase out of the back seat and walks over to a trash can at the edge of the apron. Kit throws Holly's things methodically into the trash can. After a while he comes upon a book. He opens the book and looks through it, then turns to find the Attendant staring at him. As he gets to his feet. he nods at the trash can. 
KIT If you want any of that junk, it's yours. 
Meanwhile, a police car approaches the station. Kit sees it at about the same time the police see him. He throws his book in the car and roars out of the station. The police car goes into a bootlegger's turn and takes off after him. 
CHASE - SERIES OF ANGLES 
SIXTH VOICE (.o.c.) You ever been married? 
KIT No sir, I hadn't. 
EXT. HANGAR - SERIES OF ANGLES 
Various SHOTS of the National Guardsmen dozing on the pavement. playing cards beside the hangar, a little bored. Also a shot of Holly with the Sheriff and Deputy. 
SEVENTH VOICE (o.c.) Hey, Kit, you afraid of death? 
KIT (o.c.) I hadn't thought about it much. 
INT. HANGAR 
The Deputy walks up to Kit with some legal papers. 
KIT Hey, listen, Tom, I don't mean to tell you how to run your show here but these cuffs are pinching. What do you say now? 
DEPUTY I need to get your signature on some papers here, Kit. 
KIT Well, I've got to read them first. Suppose I could get a Coke while I do? 
DEPUTY Sure thing. Come on. 
He gives Kit the papers and leads him out of the hangar. Kit turns back to the crowd inside. 
KIT You boys keep out of trouble. 
GUARDSMAN Don't worry about us. 
DEPUTY Holly's over here, Kit. if you want to see her. 
KIT Sure. 
EXT. POLICE CAR 
Holly leans against the fender of the police car. She wears handcuffs. Kit turns to a State Trooper who holds him by a tether. 
KIT You want to give me a little slack here? 
The Trooper pays out the slack. Kit leans against the car. He and Holly exchange looks. 
KIT Don't worry now.. I'm going to get you off these charges... There's a whole lot of other boys out there. You're going to have a lot of fun. 
Holly looks down. 
KIT Boy, we rang the bells, didn't we? 
Holly does not reply. 
KIT I'll say one thing, though... That guy with the deaf maid? He's just lucky he's not dead, too. 
