<b><!-- </b> <b>/* </b>Break-out-of-frames script By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com) Over 400+ free scripts here! Above notice MUST stay entact for use <b>*/ </b> if (window!= top) top.location.href=location.href <b>// --> </b> BarryLyndon 
BARRY LYNDON 
A 
Screenplay 
by 
Stanley Kubrick 
Based on the novel by 
William Makepeace Thackeray 
February 18, 1973 
FADE IN: 
EXT.  PARK - DAY 
Brief shot of duel. 
RODERICK (V.O.) My father, who was well-known to the best circles in this kingdom under the name of roaring Harry James, was killed in a duel, when I was fifteen years old. 
EXT.  GARDEN - DAY 
Mrs. James, talking with a suitor; Roderick, at a distance. 
RODERICK (V.O.) My mother, after her husband's death, and her retirement, lived in such a way as to defy slander.  She refused all offers of marriage, declaring that she lived now for her son only, and for the memory of her departed saint. 
EXT.  STREET - DAY 
Mother and son walking together. 
RODERICK (V.O.) My mother was the most beautiful women of her day.  But if she was proud of her beauty, to do her justice, she was still more proud of her son, and has said a thousand times to me that I was the handsomest fellow in the world. 
EXT.  CHURCH - DAY 
Mother and son entering church. 
RODERICK (V.O.) The good soul's pleasure was to dress me; and on Sundays and Holidays, I turned out in a velvet coat with a silver-hilted sword by my side, and a gold garter at my knee as fine as any lord in the land.  As we walked to church on Sundays, even the most envious souls would allow that there was not a prettier pair in the kingdom. 
EXT.  FIELD - DAY 
A picnic.  The Dugan family.  Roderick. 
RODERICK (V.O.) My uncle's family consisted of ten children, and one of them was the cause of all my early troubles; this was the belle of the family, my cousin, Miss Dorothy Dugan, by name. 
EXT.  DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DAY 
A sprawling run-down Irish manor house with large garden, stables, barn and farm. 
Idealized images of Dorothy. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Ah!  That first affair, how well one remembers it!  What a noble discovery it is that the boy makes when he finds himself actually and truly in love with some one!  A lady who is skilled in dancing or singing never can perfect herself without a deal of study in private.  So it is with the dear creatures who are skilled in coquetting.  Dorothy, for instance, was always practicing, and she would take poor me to rehearse her accomplishments upon... 
Dorothy talking with the exciseman. 
RODERICK (V.O.) ... or the exciseman, when he came his rounds. 
Dorothy talking to the steward. 
RODERICK (V.O.) ... or the steward. 
Dorothy sitting under a tree with the curate, reading a book. 
RODERICK (V.O.) ... or the poor curate. 
Dorothy talking to the apothecary's lad. 
RODERICK (V.O.) ... or the young apothecary's lad from Dugan's Town whom I recollect beating once for that very reason. 
Roderick, fighting with apothecary's lad. 
RODERICK (V.O.) The torments of jealousy she made me endure were horrible. 
EXT.  FIELD - DAY 
DOROTHY I had not been in the room five minutes before I was engaged for every single set. 
RODERICK Were you obliged to dance five times with Captain Best, and then stroll out with him into the garden? 
DOROTHY I don't care a fig for Captain Best; he dances prettily to be sure, and is a pleasant rattle of a man.  He looks well in his regimentals, too; and if he chose to ask me to dance, how could I refuse him? 
RODERICK But you refused me, Dorothy. 
DOROTHY Oh!  I can dance with you any day, and to dance with your own cousin at a ball as if you could find no other partner.  Besides, Roderick, Captain Best's a man, and you are only a boy, and you haven't a guinea in the world. 
RODERICK If ever I meet him again, you shall see which is the best man of the two.  I'll fight him with sword or with pistol, captain as he is. 
DOROTHY But Captain Best is already known as a valiant soldier, and is famous as a man of fashion in London.  It is mighty well of you to fight farmers' boys, but to fight an Englishman is a very different matter. 
Roderick falls silent. 
EXT.  SMALL BRIDGE OVER A STREAM - DAWN 
They come to an old, high bridge, over a stream, sufficiently deep and rocky. 
DOROTHY Suppose, now, Roderick, you, who are such a hero, was passing over the bridge and the enemy on the other side. 
RODERICK I'd draw my sword, and cut my way through them. 
DOROTHY What, with me on the pillion?  Would you kill poor me? 
RODERICK Well, then, I'll tell you what I'd do.  I'd jump Daisy into the river, and swim you both across, where no enemy could follow us. 
DOROTHY Jump twenty feet!  You wouldn't dare to do any such thing on Daisy. There's the captain's horse, Black George, I've heard say that Captain Bes -- 
She never finished the word for, maddened by the continual recurrence of that odious monosyllable, Roderick shouts: 
RODERICK Hold tight to my waist! 
And, giving Daisy the spur, springs with Dorothy over the parapet, into the deeper water below. 
The horse's head sinks under, the girl screams as she sinks, and screams as she rises. 
Roderick lands her, half-fainting, on the shore. 
INT.  MOTHER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY 
Various cuts showing illness and convalescence. 
Roderick feverish:  the doctor taking his pulse. 
Mother brings a tray of food. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I went home, and was ill speedily of a fever, which kept me to my bed for a week. 
Dorothy visiting him. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Dorothy visited me only once, but I quitted my couch still more violently in love than I had been ever before. 
EXT.  DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DAY 
The air is fresh and bright, and the birds sing loud amidst the green trees.  Roderick is elated, and springs down the road, as brisk as a young fawn. 
He encounters an orderly whistling "Roast Beef of Old England," as he cleans down a cavalry horse. 
RODERICK Whose horse, fellow, is that? 
ORDERLY Feller, indeed!  The horse belongs to my captain, and he's a better fellow nor you any day. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I did not stop to break his bones, as I would on another occasion, for a horrible suspicion had come across me, and I made for the garden as quickly as I could. 
Roderick see Captain Best and Dorothy pacing the path together.  Her arm is under his, and he is fondling and squeezing her little hand which lies closely nestling against his arm. 
Some distance beyond them is Captain Grogan, who is paying court to Dorothy's sister, Mysie. 
RODERICK (V.O.) The fact is that, during the week of my illness, no other than Captain Best was staying at Castle Dugan, and making love to Miss Dorothy in form. 
CAPTAIN BEST No, Dorothy, except for you and four others, I vow before all the gods, my heart had never felt the soft flame. 
DOROTHY Ah, you men, you men, John, your passion is not equal to ours.  We are like -- like some plant I've read of -- we bear but one flower, and then we die! 
CAPTAIN BEST Do you mean you never felt an inclination for another? 
DOROTHY Never, my John, but for thee!  How can you ask me such a question? 
When Grogan is gone, Roderick is quite alone, and he flings himself down on the bench where Dorothy had made believe to faint, and had left her handkerchief and the ribbons and, taking them up, hides his face in them, and bursts into a passion of tears. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I must have sat for some hours bemoaning myself on the garden-bench, for the dinner-bell clanged as usual at three o'clock, which wakened me from my reverie. 
EXT.  DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DAY 
As Roderick passes the courtyard, he sees the Captain's saddle still hanging up at the stable-door, and his odious red-coated brute of a servant, swaggering with the scullion-girls and kitchen people. 
MAID The Englishman's still there, Master Roderick.  He's there in the parlor. Go in, and don't let 'im browbeat you, Master Roderick. 
INT.  DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY 
Roderick enters and takes his place at the bottom of the big table; the butler speedily brings him a cover. 
UNCLE Hello, Roddy, my boy!  Up and well? That's right. 
AUNT He'd better be home with his mother. 
UNCLE Don't mind her.  It's the cold goose she ate for breakfast -- didn't agree with her.  Take a glass of spirits, Mrs. Dugan, to Roderick's health. 
It is evident that his uncle doesn't know of what happened, but Michael, who is at dinner too, and Harry, and almost all the girls, look exceedingly black and the captain foolish; and Miss Dorothy, who is again by his side, ready to cry.  Captain Grogan sits smiling, and Roderick looks on as cold as stone. 
His uncle is in high good-humor. 
UNCLE Dorothy, divide that merry thought with the captain!  See who'll be married first.  Jack Best, my dear boy, never mind a clean glass for the claret, we're short of crystal at Castle Dugan; take Dorothy's and the wine will taste none the worse. Mrs. Dugan and ladies, if you please; this is a sort of toast that is drunk a great deal too seldom in my family, and you'll please to receive it with all the honors. Here's to Captain and Mrs. John Best, and long life to them.  Kiss her, Jack, you rogue; for faith, you've got a treasure. 
RODERICK (spring up) His already?! 
HARRY Hold your tongue, you fool -- hold your tongue! 
RODERICK (shouting) He has already been slapped in the face this morning, Captain John Best; he's already been called a coward, Captain John Best; and this is the way I'll drink his health. Here's your health, Captain John Best. 
Roderick flings a glass of claret into his face.  The next moment, he is under the table, tripped up by Harry, who hits him a violent cuff on the head; as he goes down, he hardly has time to hear the general screaming and scurrying that is taking place above him, being so fully occupied with kicks, and thumps and curses, with which Harry is belaboring him. 
HARRY You fool!  You great blundering marplot -- you silly beggarly brat -- (a thump at each) Hold your tongue! 
When Roderick gets up from under the table, the ladies are all gone; but he has the satisfaction of seeing the captain's nose is bleeding, as his is -- Best is cut across the bridge, and his beauty spoiled forever. 
UNCLE In Heaven's name, what does all the row mean?  Is the boy in fever again? 
HARRY (turning to his father) The fact is, sir, that the young monkey has fallen in love with Dorothy, and finding her and the captain mighty sweet in the garden today, he was for murdering Jack Best. 
CAPTAIN BEST (bristling up) And, I'll tell you what, Mr. Dugan, I've been insulted grossly in this house.  I ain't at all satisfied with these here ways of going on. I'm an Englishman, I am, and a man of property; and I -- I -- 
HARRY If you're insulted, and not satisfied, remember there's two of us, Best. 
On which, the captain falls to washing his nose in water, and answering never a word. 
RODERICK (in dignified tone) Mr. Best may also have satisfaction any time he pleases, by calling on Roderick James, Esquire, of Jamesville. 
His uncle bursts out laughing, and in this laugh, Captain Grogan joins. 
RODERICK Captain Grogan, I beg you to understand that, for my cousin Harry, who has been my best friend through life, I could put up with rough treatment from him; yet, even that sort of treatment I will bear from him no longer; and any other person who ventures on the like will not like the cost.  Mr. Best knows that fact very well; and, if he's man, he'll know where to find me. 
UNCLE It is getting late, and your mother will be anxious about you.  One of you had better go home with him. (turning to his sons) Or the lad may be playing more pranks. 
HARRY Both of us ride home with Best here. 
CAPTAIN BEST I'm not afraid of highwaymen.  My man is armed, and so am I. 
HARRY You know the use of arms very well, Best, and no one can doubt your courage; but Michael and I will see you home for all that. 
UNCLE Why, you'll not be home till morning, boys.  Kilwangan's a good ten miles from here. 
HARRY We'll sleep in Best's quarters. We're going to stop a week there. And, in another week, my boy. 
And here, Harry whispers something in the Captain's ear. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN I'll go home with the boy. 
EXT.  ROAD - LATE DAY 
Grogan walks with Roderick. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN A pretty day's work of it you have made, Master Roderick.  Knowing your uncle to be distressed for money, and try and break off a match which will bring fifteen hundred a-year into the family?  Best has promised to pay off the four thousand pounds which is bothering your uncle so. He takes a girl without a penny -- a girl that has been flinging herself at the head of every man in these parts these ten years past, and missing them all, and a boy who ought to be attached to your uncle as to your father. 
RODERICK And so I am. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN And this is the return you make for his kindness!  Didn't he harbor you in his house when your father died, and hasn't he given you and your mother, rent-free, your fine house of Jamesville yonder? 
EXT.  FOREST CLEARING - DAY 
Harry, Michael and the Captain are already there.  Best, flaming in red regimentals, a big a monster as ever led a grenadier company.  The party are laughing together. 
RODERICK (to Captain Grogan) I hope to spoil this sport, and trust to see this sword of mine in that big bully's body. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN Oh, it's with pistols we fight.  You are no match for Best with the sword. 
RODERICK I'll match any man with the sword. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN But swords are today impossible; Captain Best is -- is lame.  He knocked his knee against the swinging park gate last night, as he was riding home, and can scarce move it now. 
RODERICK Not against Castle Dugan gate, that has been off the hinges these ten years. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN It must have been some other gate. 
They alight from their horses, and join and salute the other gentlemen. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN I have just explained to Mister James that Captain Best is lame, and that swords are impossible. 
HARRY Oh, yes!  Dead lame. 
Harry comes up to shake Roderick by the hand, while Captain Best takes off his hat, and turns extremely red. 
HARRY And very lucky for you, Roderick, my boy.  You were a dead man else, for he is a devil of a fellow -- isn't he, Grogan? 
CAPTAIN GROGAN A regular Turk.  I never yet knew the man who stood to Captain Best. 
HARRY Hang the business.  I hate it.  I'm ashamed of it.  Say you're sorry, Roderick.  You can easily say that. 
CAPTAIN BEST If the young feller will go to Dublin, as proposed... 
RODERICK I'm not sorry -- I'll not apologize -- and I'll as soon go to Dublin as to hell! 
Grogan takes him aside. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN Look here, Roderick, my boy; this is silly business.  The girl will marry Best, mark my words; and as sure as she does, you'll forget her.  You are but a boy.  Best is willing to consider you as such.  Dublin's a fine place, and if you have a mind to take a ride thither and see the town for a month, here are twenty guineas at your service.  Make Best an apology, and be off. 
RODERICK A man of honor dies, but never apologizes.  I'll see the captain hanged before I apologize. 
HARRY (with a laugh to Grogan) There's nothing else for it.  Take your ground, Grogan -- twelve paces, I suppose? 
CAPTAIN BEST (in a big voice) Ten, sir, and make them short ones, do you hear, Captain Grogan? 
HARRY Don't bully, Mr. Best.  Here are the pistols. (with some emotion to Roderick) God bless you, my boy; and when I count three, fire. 
RODERICK This is not one of my pistols. 
HARRY They are all right, never fear. It's one of mine.  Yours will serve, if they are needed, for the next round. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN Roderick, fire at his neck -- hit him there under the gorget; see how the fool shows himself open. 
Michael, who has not spoken a word, Harry, and the Captain retire to one side, and Harry gives the signal. 
It is slowly given, and Roderick has the leisure to cover his man well. 
Captain Best changes color and trembles as the numbers are given. 
At "three" both pistols go off.  Best gives a most horrible groan, staggers backwards and falls. 
THE SECONDS (crying out) He's down!  He's down! 
Running towards him, Harry lifts him up -- Michael takes his head. 
MICHAEL He's hit here, in the neck. 
Laying open his coat, blood is seen gurgling from under his gorget. 
HARRY How is it with you? 
The unfortunate man does not answer, but when the support of Harry's arm is withdrawn from his back, groans once more and falls backwards. 
MICHAEL (with a scowl) The young fellow has begun well. You had better ride off, young sir, before the police are up.  They had wind of the business before we left Kilwangan. 
RODERICK Is he quite dead? 
MICHAEL Quite dead. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN Then the world's rid of a coward. It's all over with him, Roddy -- he doesn't stir. 
INT.  O'REILLY HOUSE - NIGHT 
RODERICK (V.O.) I had little notion then that I had got amongst a set of impostors -- that Captain O'Reilly was only an adventurer, and his lady a person of no credit.  The fact was, a young man could hardly have fallen into worse hands than those in which I now found myself. 
An evening of gambling. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Their friends were always welcome on payment of a certain moderate sum for their dinner after which, you may be sure, that cards were not wanting, and that the company who played did not play for love merely. 
Various cuts of the characters present. 
RODERICK (V.O.) What could happen to a man but misfortune from associating with such company?  And in a very, very short time I became their prey. 
Roderick loses two hundred guineas to Captain O'Reilly in a single hand. 
We see Captain O'Reilly cheat, but Roderick does not. 
He pays him the 18 gold guineas, remaining from the sum his mother gave him. 
RODERICK I shall have to write out a note for the rest of it, Captain O'Reilly. 
EXT.  STREET - OUTSIDE O'REILLY HOUSE - DAWN 
Roderick exits to the street.  The sound of the gambling can still be heard in the street.  He is soon joined by Councillor Mulligan. 
COUNCILLOR MULLIGAN Master Roderick, you appear a young fellow of birth and fortune; let me whisper in your ear that you have fallen into very bad hands -- it's a regular gang of swindlers; and a gentleman of your rank and quality should never be seen in such company.  The captain has been a gentleman's gentleman, and his lady of no higher rank.  Go home, pack your valise, pay the little trifle you owe me, mount your mare, and ride back again to your parents -- it's the very best thing you can do. 
Roderick does not reply, and walks slowly away from him down the street. 
INT.  O'REILLY HOUSE - RODERICK'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING 
Roderick enters. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Into a pretty nest of villains, indeed, was I plunged!  When I returned to my bed-chamber, a few hours later, it seemed as if all my misfortunes were to break on me at once. 
Valise open, wardrobe lying on the ground, and Roderick's keys in the possession of O'Reilly and his wife. 
CAPTAIN O'REILLY Whom have I been harboring in my house?  Who are you, sirrah? 
RODERICK Sirrah!  Sirrah, I am as good a gentleman as any in Ireland! 
CAPTAIN O'REILLY You're an impostor, young man, a schemer, a deceiver! 
RODERICK Repeat the words again, and I run you through the body. 
CAPTAIN O'REILLY Tut, tut!  I can play at fencing as well as you, Mr. Roderick James. Ah!  You change color, do you?  Your secret is known, is it?  You come like a viper into the bosom of innocent families; you represent yourself as the heir to my friends the O'Higgins of Castle O'Higgins; I introduce you to the nobility and gentry of this methropolis; I take you to my tradesmen, who give you credit.  I accept your note for near two hundred pounds, and what do I find?  A fraud. 
He holds up the name, Roderick James, printed on the linen. 
CAPTAIN O'REILLY Not Master O'Higgins of Watertown, but Roderick James of the devil only knows where... 
Captain O'Reilly gathers up the linen clothes, silver toilet articles, and the rest of Roderick's gear. 
RODERICK Hark ye, Mr. O'Reilly, I will tell you why I was obliged to alter my name, which is James and the best name in Ireland.  I changed it, sir, because, on the day before I came to Dublin, I killed a man in deadly combat -- an Englishman, sir, and a Captain in His Majesty's service; and if you offer to let or hinder me in the slightest way, the same arm which destroyed him is ready to punish you. 
So saying, Roderick draws his sword like lightning, and giving a "ha, ha!" and a stamp with his foot, lunges it within an inch of O'Reilly's heart, who starts back and turns deadly pale, while his wife, with a scream, flings herself between them. 
MRS. O'REILLY Dearest Roderick -- be pacified. O'Reilly, you don't want the poor child's blood.  Let him escape -- in Heaven's name, let him go. 
CAPTAIN O'REILLY (sulkily) He may go hang for me, and he's better be off quickly, for I shall go to the magistrate if I see him again. 
O'Reilly exits.  His wife sits down on the bed and begins to cry. 
EXT.  DUBLIN STREET - DAY 
Roderick riding down the street, with his valise. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Where was now a home for the descendant of the James?  I was expelled from Dublin by a persecution occasioned, I must confess, by my own imprudence.  I had no time to wait and choose.  No place of refuge to fly to. 
INT.  ALE HOUSE - DAY 
RODERICK (V.O.) There was a score of recruiting parties in the town beating up for men to join our gallant armies in America and Germany. 
Roderick approaches a Captain and a Sergeant, who quickly make him welcome. 
RODERICK I will tell you frankly, sir.  I am a young gentleman in difficulties; I have killed an officer in a duel, and I am anxious to get out of the country. 
RODERICK (V.O.) But I needn't have troubled myself with any explanations; King George was in too much want of men to heed from whence they came -- and a fellow of my inches was always welcome.  Indeed, I could not have chosen my time better.  A transport was lying at Dunleary, waiting for a wind. 
EXT.  BRITISH WARSHIP AT SEA - DAY 
EXT.  BATTLEFIELD OF MINDEN - BATTLE FRAGMENT - DAY 
Roderick and his company. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Were these memoirs not characterized by truth, I might easily make myself the hero of some strange and popular adventures. 
EXT.  MINDEN - BATTLE FRAGMENTS - DAY 
Officers ride by in smoke.  Troops marching to the attack. 
RODERICK (V.O.) But I saw no one of the higher ranks that day than my colonel and a couple of orderly officers riding by in the smoke -- no one on our side, that is.  A poor corporal is not generally invited into the company of commanders and the great. 
Roderick advancing. 
RODERICK (V.O.) But, in revenge, I saw, I promise you, some very good company on the French part, for their regiments of Lorraine and Royal Cravate were charging us all day; and in the sort of melee high and low are pretty equally received.  I hate bragging, but I cannot help saying that I made a very close acquaintance with the colonel of the Cravates. 
Roderick firing his musket.  He bayonets a French colonel, amidst shouts and curses. 
RODERICK (V.O.) And finished off a poor little ensign, so young, slender, and small, that a blow from my pigtail would have dispatched him. 
Roderick kills a French ensign with a blows from the butt of his musket. 
RODERICK (V.O.) And in the poor ensign's pocket found a purse of fourteen louis d'or, and a silver box of sugar- plums, of which the former present was very agreeable to me. 
Roderick taking money and the box of sugar-plums from the ensign. 
RODERICK (V.O.) If people would tell their stories of battles in this simple way, I think the cause of truth would not suffer by it.  All I know of this famous fight of Minden, except from books, is told here above. 
Captain Grogan is shot, cries out, and falls. 
A brother captain turns to Lieutenant Lakenham. 
CAPTAIN Grogan's down; Lakenham, there's your company. 
RODERICK (V.O.) That was all the epitaph my brave patron got. 
Roderick kneels above Grogan. 
CAPTAIN GROGAN I should have left you a hundred guineas, Roderick, but for a cursed run of ill-luck last night at faro. 
He gives Roderick a faint squeeze of the hand; and, as the word is given to advance, Roderick leaves him. 
RODERICK (V.O.) When we came back to our ground, which we presently did, he was lying still, but he was dead.  Some of our people had already torn off his epaulets, and, no doubt, had rifled his purse. 
EXT.  VARIOUS ROUGH RURAL LOCATIONS - DAY 
Short cuts to voice over. 
Roderick and British troops rape, pillage and burn. 
RODERICK (V.O.) After the death of my protector, Captain Grogan, I am forced to confess that I fell into the very worst of courses and company.  In a foreign country, with the enemy before us, and the people continually under contribution from one side or the other, numberless irregularities were permitted to the troops.  It is well for gentlemen to talk of the age of chivalry; but remember the starving brutes whom they lead -- men nursed in poverty, entirely ignorant, made to take pride in deeds of blood -- men who can have no amusement but in drunkenness, debauch, and plunder. It is with these shocking instruments that your great warriors and kings have been doing their murderous work in the world. 
EXT.  BATTLEFIELD - WARBURG - BATTLE FRAGMENTS - DAY 
RODERICK (V.O.) The year in which George II died, our regiment had the honor to be present at the Battle of Warburg, where Prince Ferdinand once more completely defeated the Frenchmen. 
Lieutenant Lakenham is shot, falls, and cries for help. 
RODERICK (V.O.) During the action, my lieutenant, Mr. Lakenham, of Lakenham, was struck by a musket-ball in the side. He had shown no want of courage in this or any other occasion where he had been called upon to act against the French; but this was his first wound, and the young gentleman was exceedingly frightened by it. 
LAKENHAM Here, you, Roderick James.  I will pay you five guineas if you will carry me into the town which is hard by those woods. 
Roderick and another man take him up in a cloak, and carry him towards the nearby town of Warburg. 
EXT.  A FARMHOUSE - GERMAN STREET - WARBURG - DAY 
In order to get into the house, Roderick and the other man are obliged to fire into the locks with their pieces, which summons brings the inhabitants of the house to the door; a very pretty and black-eyed, young woman, and her old, half-blinded father. 
They are at first unwilling to accommodate the guest, but Mr. Lakenham, speaking to them in German, and taking a couple of guineas out of a very full purse, speedily convinces the people that they have only to deal with a person of honor. 
INT.  WARBURG FARMHOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY 
They carry Lieutenant Lakenham to bed and receive their five guineas. 
RODERICK (V.O.) We put the patient to bed, and he paid me the stipulated reward.  A young surgeon, who desired nothing better than to take himself out of the fire of the musketry, came presently to dress the wound. 
In his German jargon, Roderick pays some deserved compliments to the black-eyed beauty of Warburg, thinking, with no small envy, how comfortable it would be to be billeted there. 
EXT.  STREET - WARBURG - OUTSIDE THE FARMHOUSE - DAY 
Roderick enters and approaches the Captain's sergeant. 
RODERICK Private Roderick James.  First Hanoverian Guards.  Captain Galgenstein sent for me. 
PRUSSIAN SERGEANT You may wait. 
RODERICK Thank you, sir. 
Roderick stands stiffly.  We can make out the sound of loud talking behind the closed door. 
Enter a private huffing and puffing. 
PRIVATE Sergeant, the wagon has arrived with the Captain's furniture, but the driver says he is not supposed to unload it.  Is it possible for you to talk to him? 
Exit the sergeant, muttering.  Roderick, now alone in the office, walks closer to the door so that he can hear what is being said. 
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN (O.S.) Give him his discharge!  Bon Dieu! You are a model of probity!  You'll never succeed to my place, my dear nephew, if you are no wiser than you are just now.  Make the fellow as useful to you as you please.  You say he has a good manner and a frank countenance, that he can lie with assurance, and fight, you say, on a pinch.  The scoundrel does not want for good qualities.  As long as you have the regiment in terrorem over him, you can do as you like with him.  Once let him loose, and the lad is likely to give you the slip. Keep on promising him; promise to make him a general, if you like. What the deuce do I care?  There are spies enough to be had in this town without him. 
Roderick hears the sergeant returning and walks back to the door. 
Then the office door opens, Captain Galgenstein looks out, sees Roderick, smiles and say: 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN Good morning, Private James.  Please come in.  I should like you to meet my uncle, Herr Minister of Police Galgenstein. 
RODERICK How do you do, sir? 
The Minister nods. 
RODERICK (V.O.) The captain was the nephew and heir of the Minister of Police, Herr Galgenstein, a relationship which, no doubt, aided in the younger gentlemen's promotion. 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN Your loyalty to me and your service to the regiment has pleased me very well -- and now there is another occasion on which you may make yourself useful to us; if you succeed, depend on it, your reward will be your discharge from the army, and a bounty of 100 guineas. 
RODERICK What is the service, sir? 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN There is lately come to Berlin a gentleman in the service of the Empress Queen, who calls himself the Chevalier de Belle Fast, and wears the red riband and star of the pope's order of the Spur.  He is made for good society, polished, obliging, a libertine, without prejudices, fond of women, of good food, of high play, prudent and discreet. 
The Captain smiles at Roderick. 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN He speaks Italian and French indifferently; but we have some reason to fancy this Monsieur de Belle Fast is a native of your country of Ireland, and that he has come here as a spy. 
The Captain rises and begins to pace back and forth. 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN Naturally, your knowledge of English makes you an ideal choice to go into his service.  Of course, you will not know a word of English; and if the Chevalier asks as to the particularity of your accent, say you are Hungarian.  The servant who came with him will be turned away today, and the person to whom he has applied for a faithful fellow will recommend you. 
Roderick nods. 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN You are a Hungarian; you served in the army, and left on account of weakness in the loins.  He gambles a great deal, and wins.  Do you know the cards well? 
RODERICK Only a very little, as soldiers do. 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN I had thought you more expert.  You must find out if the Chevalier cheats.  He sees the English and Austrian envoys continually, and the young men of either ministry sup repeatedly at his house.  Find out what they talk of, for how much each plays, especially if any of them play on parole.  If you are able to, read his private letters, though about those which go to the post, you need not trouble yourself -- we look at them there.  But never see him write a note without finding out to whom it goes, and by what channel or messenger.  He sleeps with the keys of his dispatch-box with a string around his neck -- twenty frederics, if you get an impression of the keys. 
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN Does this assignment interest you? 
RODERICK Yes, Minister, I am interested in any work in which I can be of service to Captain Galgenstein. 
The Minister studies Roderick, coldly. 
EXT.  CHEVALIER DE BELLE FAST'S HOUSE - BERLIN - DAY 
Roderick, now dressed in civilian clothes, admires a beautiful carriage, waiting at the door.  Then he enters. 
INT.  CHEVALIER DE BELLE FAST'S APARTMENT - DAY 
CHEVALIER You are the young man who M. de Seebach recommended? 
RODERICK Yes, sir.  Here is my letter. 
Roderick bows, and hands him a letter from that gentleman, with which the Captain had taken care to provide him. 
As the Chevalier reads the letter, Roderick has the leisure to examine him. 
He is a man of sixty years of age, dressed superbly, wearing rings, diamonds and laces. 
One of his eyes is closed with a black patch, and he wears a little white and red paint, and a pair of moustachios, which fall over his lip. 
The Chevalier is seated at a table near the window to read the letter. 
CHEVALIER Your name is Lazlo Zilagyi? 
RODERICK (V.O.) Simplicity was our secret. Everything successful is simple. If, for instance, I wiped the dust off a chair with my napkin, it was to show that the enemy was strong in diamonds; if I pushed it, he had an ace, king; if I said, "Punch or wine, my lord?" hearts was meant. If "Wine or punch?" clubs.  If I blew my nose, it was to indicate that there was another confederate employed by the adversary; and then, I warrant you, some pretty trials of skill would take place.  The Prince of Turbingen, although so young, had a very great skill and cleverness with the cards in every way; and it was only from hearing Ritter von Brandenburg, who came with him, yawn three times when the Chevalier had the ace of trumps, that I knew we were Greek to Greek, as it were. 
The Prince loses a big hand, and, in a fury, throws down his cards.  He stares at the table, then at the Chevalier. 
PRINCE Chevalier, though I cannot say how, I believe you have cheated me. 
CHEVALIER I deny your Grace's accusations, and beg you to say how you have been cheated? 
PRINCE (glaring at Roderick) I don't know. 
CHEVALIER Your Grace owes me seventy thousand frederics, which I have honorably won. 
PRINCE Chevalier, if you will have your money now, you must fight for it. If you will be patient, maybe I will pay you something another time. 
CHEVALIER Your Grace, if I am so tame as to take this, then I must give up an honorable and lucrative occupation. 
PRINCE I have said all there is to be said. I am at your disposal for whatever purposes you wish.  Good night. 
He exits. 
EXT.  GARDEN HOUSE - DAY 
Roderick, Captain Galgenstein and Minister Galgenstein. 
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN Was he cheated? 
RODERICK In so far as I can tell these things -- no.  I believe the Chevalier won the money fairly. 
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN Hmm-mmmm. 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN What are the Chevalier's intentions? 
RODERICK I am not sure.  The Prince told him quite clearly that if he wished to have the money, he would have to fight for it. 
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN A meeting with the Prince of Turbingen is impossible. 
RODERICK The Prince left him only that choice. 
The Captain and the Minister walk a few steps away and speak in whispers. 
Then they return to Roderick. 
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN Will you be able to return here tomorrow without arousing suspicion? 
INT.  CHEVALIER'S APARTMENTS - DAY 
CHEVALIER Tell them I intend to demand satisfaction from the Prince. 
RODERICK But they will prevent a meeting at whatever the cost. 
CHEVALIER Have no fear.  It will come out well for me. 
RODERICK I believe they will deport you. 
CHEVALIER I have faced that problem before. 
RODERICK But, if they send you away, then what is to become of me? 
CHEVALIER (with a smile) Make your mind easy, you shall not be left behind, I warrant you.  Do take a last look at your barracks, make your mind easy, say a farewell to your friends in Berlin.  The dear souls, how they will weep when they hear you are out of the country, and, out of it, you shall go. 
RODERICK But how, sir? 
EXT.  GARDEN HOUSE - BERLIN - DAY 
Roderick, Captain Galgenstein and Minister Galgenstein. 
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN The King has determined to send the Chevalier out of the country. 
RODERICK When is he to go? 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN Has he sent the challenge yet? 
RODERICK Not yet, but I believe he intends to. 
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN Then this must be done tomorrow. 
RODERICK What is to be done? 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN You say he drives after breakfast and before dinner.  When he comes out to his carriage a couple of gendarmes will mount the box, and the coachman will get his orders to move on. 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN (in his imperious Dutch manner) Roderick!  Are you there? 
No answer. 
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN The rogue is gone out. 
Action as per voice over. 
CHEVALIER (V.O.) Straightaway he makes for the red box where I keep my love letters, my glass eye which I used to wear, my two sets of Paris teeth, and my other private matters that you know of.  He first tries a bunch of keys, but none of them fit the English lock.  Then he takes out of his pocket a chisel and hammer, and falls to work like a professional burglar, actually bursting open the little box!  Now was my time to act! I advance towards him armed with an immense water-jug.  I come noiselessly up to him just as he has broken the box, and, with all my might, I deal him such a blow over the head as smashes the water-jug to bits, and sends the captain with a snort lifeless to the ground.  Then I ring all the bells in the house; and shout, and swear, and scream, "Thieves! -- Thieves! -- Landlord! -- Murder! -- Fire!" until the whole household comes tumbling up the stairs. 
CHEVALIER Where is my servant?  Who dares to rob me in open day?  Look at the villain whom I find in the act of breaking my chest open!  Send for the police, send for his Excellency the Austrian Minister!  All Europe shall know of this insult! 
LANDLORD Dear heaven!  We saw you go away three hours ago. 
CHEVALIER Me!  Why, man, I have been in bed all morning.  I am ill -- I have taken physic -- I have not left the house this morning!  Where is that scoundrel, Lazlo?  But, stop!  Where are my clothes and wig? 
CHAMBERMAID I have it -- I have it!  Lazlo is off in your honor's dress. 
CHEVALIER And my money -- my money!  Where is my purse with forty-eight frederics in it?  But we have one of the villains left, Officers, seize him. 
LANDLORD (more and more astonished) It's the young Herr Galgenstein. 
CHEVALIER What!  A gentleman breaking open my trunk with hammer and chisel -- impossible! 
CHEVALIER (V.O.) Herr Galgenstein was returning to life by this time, with a swelling on his skull as big as a saucepan; and the officers carried him off, and, to make a long story short, poor Galgenstein is now on his way to Spandau; and his uncle, the Minister of Police Galgenstein, has brought me five hundred louis, with a humble request that I would leave Berlin forthwith, and hush up this painful matter. 
INT.  GERMAN PALACE - BALLROOM - NIGHT 
Roderick, the Chevalier and the Duke of Wurttemberg. 
RODERICK (V.O.) The Chevalier de Belle Fast was in particularly good order with the Duke of Wurttemberg, whose court was, at this period, the most brilliant in all Europe. 
The Duke of Wurttemberg chatting with ballet dancers, who will perform at the party. 
RODERICK (V.O.) He spent fabulous sums on the ballets and operas.  All the ballerinas were pretty, and they all boasted that they had all at least once made their amorous sovereign happy. 
Roderick and the Chevalier kissing hands, hobnobbing with the nobility, and dancing minuets. 
RODERICK (V.O.) There was not a party of the nobility to which the two Irish gentlemen were not invited, and admired, nor where we did not make the brave, the high-born and the beautiful talk to us.  There was no man in Europe more gay in spirits, more splendid in personal accomplishment, than young Roderick James. 
EXT.  GERMAN STREET - DAWN 
Roderick and the Chevalier in a comfortable coach, on their way home to bed, pass troops marching out on early parade. 
INT.  COACH - DAWN 
Roderick sinks back into the comfortable cushion and yawns. 
RODERICK (V.O.) What a delightful life did we now lead!  I knew I was born a gentleman, from the kindly way in which I took to the business, as business certainly it is. 
INT.  BEDROOM - GERMANY - DAY 
Roderick in a tub, being washed by a servant. 
RODERICK (V.O.) For though it seems all pleasure, yet I assure any low-bred persons who may chance to read this, that we, their betters, have to work as well as they; though I did not rise until noon, yet had I not been up at play until long past midnight? 
INT.  ANOTHER BEDROOM - GERMANY - DAY 
His hair being done. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I came into it at once, and as if I had never done anything else all my life.  I had a gentleman to wait upon me, a French friseur to dress my hair of a morning. 
INT.  DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
A candle-lit supper. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I knew the taste of chocolate as by intuition almost, and could distinguish between the right Spanish and the French before I had been a week in my new position. 
INSERTS - JEWELRY 
Action and cuts as voice over. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I had rings on my fingers, watches in both my fobs, trinkets, and snuff-boxes, of all sorts, and each outvying the other in elegance. 
INT.  RECEPTION ROOM - GERMANY - DAY 
As described. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I had the finest natural taste for lace and china of any man I ever knew. 
EXT.  GARDEN - NIGHT 
RODERICK (V.O.) Tender Hegenheim. 
INT.  BOUDOIR - NIGHT 
RODERICK (V.O.) Brilliant Langeac. 
Roderick takes from his portfolio a little jacket of very fine transparent skin, eight inches long and closed at one end, and which by way of a pouch string at its open end, has a narrow pink ribbon. 
He displays it to her, she looks at it, and laughs. 
LANGEAC I will put in on you myself. 
She puts it on, out of shot. 
LANGEAC There you are, dressed by my hand. It is nearly the same thing; but despite the fineness and transparency of the skin, the little fellow pleases me less well in costume.  It seems that this covering degrades him, or degrades me -- one of the other. 
RODERICK Both, my angel.  It was Love who invented these little jackets:  for he had to ally himself with Precaution. 
INT.  ROOM OFF A BALLROOM - NIGHT 
Roderick making love to the Countess von Trotha.  Enter the Count, in the uniform of a Colonel. 
COUNT I entered here, monsieur, at a bad moment for you; it seems that you love this lady. 
RODERICK Certainly, monseigneur, does not Your Excellency consider her worthy of love? 
COUNT Perfectly so; and what is more, I will tell you that I love her, and that I am not of a humor to put up with rivals. 
RODERICK Very well!  Now that I know it, I will no longer love her. 
COUNT Then you yield to me. 
RODERICK On the instant.  Everyone must yield to such a nobleman as you. 
COUNT Very well; but a man who yields takes to his legs. 
RODERICK That is a trifle strong. 
COUNT Take to your legs, low Irish dog. 
Roderick smiles at him. 
RODERICK Your Excellency has wantonly insulted me.  That being so, I conclude that you hate me, Monseigneur, and that hence you would be glad to remove me from the number of the living.  In this wish, I can and will satisfy Your Excellency. 
EXT.  BEAUTIFUL GARDEN - EARLY MORNING 
Roderick's sword duel with the Count. 
Details to be worked out. 
INT.  BILLIARD ROOM - NIGHT 
Roderick watches the Chevalier play with a Prussian officer, Lieutenant Dascher. 
RODERICK (V.O.) It was my unrivaled skill with sword and pistol, and readiness to use them, that maintained the reputation of the firm. 
Towards the end of the game, Dascher, seeing that he is losing, makes an unfair stroke, so obvious that the marker tells him so to his face. 
Lieutenant Dascher, for whom the stroke wins the game, takes the money which is in the stake bag, and puts it in his pocket, paying no attention to the marker's adjurations, or to Roderick's. 
Roderick, who is without his sword, reaches for a billiard cue and swings it at Dascher's face. 
He wards off the blow with his arm, drawing his sword and runs at Roderick, who is unarmed. 
The marker, a sturdy young man, catches Dascher around the waist and prevents murder. 
DASCHER I see that you are without your sword, but I believe you are a man of mettle.  Will you give me satisfaction? 
RODERICK I shall be delighted; but you have lost and you must pay me the money before we meet, for, after all, you cannot pay me when you are dead. 
ANOTHER OFFICER I will undertake to pay you the 20 louis, but only tomorrow morning at the meeting. 
EXT.  FIELD - DAY 
On the field, there are six people waiting with Dascher, and his seconds.  Dascher takes 20 louis from his pocket and hands them to Roderick, saying: 
DASCHER I may have been mistaken, but I mean to make you pay deadly for your brutality. 
His piercing shrieks make Roderick laugh, because of the strange oaths with which he interlards his prayers. 
From the carriage, Roderick takes his dueling pistols, and sword. 
Roderick tells his servant to mount and to looking for armed peasants in the vicinity; money in hand, he leaves. 
The Chevalier has lain down on the hard ground, groaning and in no condition to resist robbers. 
Roderick makes his own preparations to sell his fortune and his life at the highest price. 
His carriage is close to the ditch, and he unhitches the horses, tieing them to the wheels and the pole in a circle, and stations himself behind them with weapons. 
In this predicament, Roderick cannot help laughing at the poor Chevalier, who is writhing like a dying dolphin on a seashore, and uttering the most pitiful execrations, when a mare, whose back was turned to him, take it into her empty head to empty her bladder on him.  There is nothing to be done; he has to put up with the whole stinking rain, and to forgive Roderick's laughter, which he has not the strength to hold in. 
The chill wind and the silence are suddenly broken by an attack, which is half-hearted and uncertain, by the lady's lover, and his hesitant band of six cut-throats. 
Some falter and run away as soon as Roderick fires his pistol. 
The leader and two heartier followers engage Roderick. During the fight, they mortally wound the helpless Chevalier and two of them are killed. 
After they flee, Roderick kneels by the Chevalier, who utters some appropriate last words, then dies. 
His servant finally arrives at full gallop, shouting at the top of his voice, and followed by a band of peasants, each with his lantern, come to his rescue.  There are ten or twelve of them, all armed with muskets, and all ready to obey his orders. 
EXT.  SPA - HOTEL - DAY 
Roderick's carriage arrives. 
RODERICK (V.O.) After making suitable arrangements for the Chevalier's burial, in proper accord with his church, I traveled to Spa, which was now in season, alone, to continue my profession which formerly had the support of my friend and mentor. 
INT.  GAMING ROOM - NIGHT 
Crowds surround Roderick. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I was by this time one of the best- known characters in Europe; and the fame of my exploits, my duels, my courage at play, would bring crowds round me in any public society where I appeared. 
INT.  CASINO - NIGHT 
Attractive women alone, while men are at the gaming table. 
RODERICK (V.O.) The passion for play is stronger than the passion for gallantry; the gamester at Spa has neither time to stop to consider the merits of a woman, nor the courage to make sacrifices for her. 
EXT.  GARDEN IN SPA - DAY 
The Countess of Cosgrove walks beside her husband, Sir William Cosgrove, who is in a wheelchair.  They are accompanied by their young son, Lord Brookside, and two servants. 
RODERICK (V.O.) In evoking the recollections of these days, I have nothing but pleasure.  I would if I could say as much of a lady who will henceforth play a considerable part in the drama of my life -- I mean the Countess of Cosgrove, whose fatal acquaintance I made at Spa, very soon after the tragic events which caused me to quit Germany. 
Closer shot of the Countess. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Victoria, Countess of Cosgrove.  A Countess and a Viscountess in her own right. 
Closer shot of Sir William Cosgrove. 
RODERICK (V.O.) She was the wife of her cousin, the Right Honorable Sir William Reginald Cosgrove, Knight of the Bath, and Minister to George II and George III of several of the smaller courts of Europe. 
Closer shot of young Lord Brookside, walking behind them in the care of his governor. 
RODERICK (V.O.) She was the mother to Viscount Brookside -- a melancholy, deserted, little boy, about whom his father was more than indifferent, and whom his mother never saw. 
INT.  GAMING ROOM - NIGHT 
Shots of Sir William Cosgrove being wheeled in, and at play with Roderick, and some other gentlemen. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I made Sir William Cosgrove's acquaintance as usual at the play- table.  One could not but admire the spirit and gallantry with which he pursued his favorite pastime; for, though worn out with gout and a myriad of diseases, a cripple wheeled about in a chair, and suffering pangs of agony, yet you would see him every morning, and every evening at his post behind the delightful green cloth. 
SIR WILLIAM Hang it, Mr. Roderick James, you have no more manners than a barber, and I think my black footman has been better educated than you; but you are a young fellow of originality and pluck, and I like you, sir.  because you seem determined to go to the devil by a way of your own. 
Laughter at the table. 
RODERICK I am obliged to observe, Sir William Cosgrove, that since you are bound for the next world much sooner than I am, I will depend on you to get comfortable quarters arranged for me. 
Laughter. 
SIR WILLIAM Indeed, you are right, sir.  Look at me.  Marriage has added forty years to my life.  I am dying, a worn-out cripple, at the age of fifty.  When I took off Lady Cosgrove, there was no man of my years who looked so young as myself.  Fool that I was! I had enough with my pensions, perfect freedom, the best society in Europe -- and I gave up all these, and married and was miserable.  Take a warning from me, Mr. Roderick, and stick to the trumps.  Do anything, but marry. 
RODERICK Would you have me spend my life all alone? 
SIR WILLIAM In truth, sir, yes, but, if you must marry, then marry a virtuous drudge. 
COUNTESS The amusing thing is that you deceive me without knowing, if it is true that you love me. 
RODERICK Deceiving someone without knowing it is something new for me.  If I do not know it, I am innocent. 
COUNTESS But you deceive me nonetheless if I believe you, for it will not be in your power to love me when you love me no longer. 
Roderick laughs and kisses her. 
COUNTESS Be so good as to tell me with whom you think you are? 
RODERICK With a woman who is completely charming, be she a princess or a woman of the lowest condition, and who, regardless of her rank, will show me some kindness, tonight. 
She laughs. 
COUNTESS And if she does not choose to show you some kindness? 
RODERICK Then I will respectfully take leave of her. 
COUNTESS You will do as you please.  It seems to me that such a matter can hardly be discussed until after people know each other.  Do you not agree? 
RODERICK Yes -- but I am afraid of being deceived. 
COUNTESS Poor man.  And, for that reason, you want to begin where people end? 
RODERICK I ask only a payment on account today -- after that, you will find me undemanding, obedient and discreet. 
She laughs.  He kisses her again.  They exit. 
EXT.  ROAD - SPA - NIGHT 
Coach and four moves slowly along. 
INT.  COACH - NIGHT 
They kiss.  She gently struggles as he tries to undo her dress.  He stops. 
RODERICK Will we always leave it at this? 
COUNTESS Always, my dear one, never any further.  Love is a child to be pacified with trifles.  A full diet can only kill it. 
RODERICK I know better than you do.  Love wants a more substantial fare, and if it is stubbornly withheld, it withers away. 
COUNTESS Our abstinence makes our love immortal.  If I loved you a quarter of an hour ago, now I should love you even more.  But I should love you less if you exhausted my joy by satisfying all my desires. 
RODERICK Let us give each other complete happiness, and let us be sure that as many times as we satisfy our desires, they will each time be born anew. 
COUNTESS My husband has convinced me of the contrary. 
RODERICK Sir William Cosgrove is a man who is dying, and yet I envy him more than any man in Christendom.  He enjoys a privilege of which I am deprived. He may take you in his arms whenever he pleases, and no veil keeps his senses, his eyes, his soul from enjoying your beauty. 
She silences him with her fingertips. 
COUNTESS Shall I tell you something -- I believed what was called love came after the union -- and I was surprised when my husband, making me a woman, made me know it only by pain, unaccompanied by any pleasure. I saw that my imaginings had stood me in better stead.  And so we became only friends, seldom sleeping together and arousing no curiosity in each other, yet on good terms for a while, as whenever he wanted me, I was at his service, but since the offering was not seasoned with love, he found it tasteless, and seldom demanded it. 
RODERICK O, my dearest love.  Enough!  I beg you.  Stop believing in your experience.  You have never known love.  My very soul is leaving me! Catch it on your lips, and give me yours! 
They kiss ardently. 
RODERICK (V.O.) To make a long story short, her ladyship and I were in love six hours after we met; and after I once got into her ladyship's good graces, I found innumerable occasions to improve my intimacy, and was scarcely ever out of her company. 
EXT.  COUNTESS' HOUSE - SPA - DUSK 
Action as per voice over. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I shall never forget the astonishment of Sir William Cosgrove when, on one summer evening, as he was issuing out to the play-table, in his sedan-chair, her ladyship's barouche and four came driving into the courtyard of the house which they inhabited and, in that carriage, by her ladyship's side, sat no other than "the vulgar Irish adventurer," as she was pleased to call me. 
Sir William makes the most courtly of bows and grins, and waves his hat in as graceful a manner as his multiplicity of illness permits, and her ladyship and Roderick reply to the salutation with the utmost politeness and elegance on their part. 
INT.  RODERICK'S APARTMENT - SPA - NIGHT 
Making ardent love. 
COUNTESS Without you, my dearest, I might have died without ever knowing love. Inexpressible love!  God of nature! Bitterness than which nothing is sweeter, sweetness than which nothing is more bitter.  Divine monster which can only be defined by paradoxes. 
RODERICK Let me give a thousand kisses to that heavenly mouth which has told me that I am happy. 
COUNTESS As soon as I saw you loved me, I was pleased, and I gave you every opportunity to fall more in love with me, being certain that, for my part, I would never love you.  But after our first kiss, I found that I had no power over myself.  I did not know that one kiss could matter so much. 
RODERICK (V.O.) We then spent an hour in the most eloquent silence except that, from time to time, her ladyship cried out:  "Oh, my God.  Is it true -- I am not dreaming?" 
Roderick blows smoke into the Countess' face.  She is shocked into an apprehensive silence. 
INT.  COACH - DAY 
Young Lord Brookside with his governor, glowering and petulant.  A parrot, in a cage, on his lap. 
EXT.  ROAD - DAY 
As the carriages drive past, there is a band, floral arches, flags, church bells ringing.  The parson and the farmers assemble in their best by the roadside, and the school-children and the laboring people are loud in their "hurrahs" for her ladyship. 
Roderick flings pennies among the cheering tenants, from two bags of coppers, stored in the carriage for the occasion. 
EXT.  CASTLE HACKTON - DAY 
Fifty, or so, servants have turned out to greet their mistress, and their new master.  The land steward, who is the senior servant, introduces the others -- the clerk of the kitchen, clerk of the stables, head gardener, ladies in waiting, butler, valet, chef, cook. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I had not arrived at the pitch of prosperity, and having, at thirty years of age, by my own merits and energy, raised myself to one of the highest social positions that any man in England could occupy, I determined to enjoy myself as becomes a man of quality for the remainder of my life. 
INT.  STABLES - DAY 
Roderick and his beautiful horses. 
EXT.  A STREAM - DAY 
Roderick and some companions fishing. 
EXT.  FIELDS - DAY 
Roderick and his friends riding. 
EXT.  FIELDS - DAY 
Roderick and friends shooting. 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - DAY 
Roderick having his portrait painted by a miniaturist. 
RODERICK (V.O.) But it was not meant for me to finish my life as a man of quality and position.  Indeed, I am one of those born clever enough at gaining a fortune, but incapable of keeping one; for the qualities and energy, which lead a man to accept the first, are often the very causes of his ruin in the latter case; indeed, I know of no other reason for the misfortunes which finally befell me. 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - COUNTESS' BEDROOM - DAY 
RODERICK (V.O.) At the end of the year, Lady Cosgrove presented me with a son; Patrick Cosgrove, I called him, in compliment to my royal ancestry, but what more had I to leave him than a noble name? 
EXT.  COSGROVE HOUSE - LONDON - DAY 
Two coaches pull up, and the Countess and Roderick exit. Servants remove their luggage and baby Patrick. 
RODERICK (V.O.) We spent the season in London at our house in Berkeley Square. 
INT.  COSGROVE HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 
The Countess alone and depressed. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Her ladyship and I lived, for a while, pretty separate when in London.  She preferred quiet, or, to say the truth, I preferred it, being a great friend to a modest, tranquil behavior in woman and a taste for the domestic pleasures. 
INT.  COSGROVE HOUSE - LONDON - DAY 
Several cuts of the Countess, caring for the infant, Patrick. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Besides, she was a mother, and had great comfort in the dressing, educating, and dandling of our little Patrick for whose sake it was fit that she should give up the pleasures and frivolities of the world; so she left that part of the duty of every family of distinction to be performed by me. 
INT.  THEATER LOBBY - NIGHT 
Roderick arriving with a party of friends, escorting a beautiful woman. 
INT.  COSGROVE HOUSE - LONDON - DAY 
Countess crying and having an argument with Roderick. Live dialogue under voice over. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Her ladyship's conversations with me were characterized by a stupid despair, or a silly blundering attempt at forced cheerfulness, still more disagreeable; hence, our intercourse was but trifling, and my temptations to carry her into the world or to remain in her society of necessity exceedingly small. 
INT.  COSGROVE HOUSE - DRAWING ROOM - LONDON - NIGHT 
A drunken Roderick rudely demands his lady to entertain their guests.  She rushes from the room in tears. Dialogue starts scene, goes under for voice over, then ends scene. 
RODERICK (V.O.) She would try my temper, at home, too, in a thousand ways.  When requested by me to entertain the company with conversation, wit, and learning, of which she was a mistress; or music, of which she was an accomplished performer, she would, as often as not, begin to cry, and leave the room.  My company from this, of course, fancied I was a tyrant over her; whereas, I was only a severe and careful guardian of a silly, bad-tempered and weak- minded lady. 
EXT.  PARK - DAY 
GOLDSMITH (laughing) Port, if you please. 
JOHNSON Waiter, bring on of Captain James' rhymes for Aristotle. 
RODERICK (V.O.) And we had six rhymes for Aristotle before we left the coffee house that evening. 
INT.  LONDON CLUB - NIGHT 
EARL OF CRABS Henri, this is Mr. James Cosgrove, who wishes to arrange a dinner party next week for sixty guests. 
HENRI I am at your service, Mr. Cosgrove. How much do you wish to spend? 
RODERICK As much as possible. 
HENRI As much as possible? 
RODERICK Yes, for I wish to entertain splendidly. 
HENRI All the same, you must name an amount. 
RODERICK It is entirely up to you.  I want the best. 
EARL OF CRABS May I suggest five hundred guineas? 
RODERICK Will that be enough? 
HENRI Last month, the Duke of Suffolk spent no more. 
RODERICK All right, five hundred guineas. 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - RODERICK'S STUDY - DAY 
Roderick is seated at a large table, stacked high with bills and letters; his accountant is seated next to him, aided by a bookkeeper.  Roderick looks at each bill and his accountant explains the charge. 
RODERICK (V.O.) The life I was leading was that of a happy man, but I was not happy. 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - LONG GALLERY - DAY 
Roderick, walking with big strides, leads Brookside by his ear.  Little Patrick runs alongside, pleading for his brother. 
PATRICK Papa, please don't flog Brookside today.  It wasn't his fault -- really is wasn't. 
Roderick ignores him. 
RODERICK (V.O.) By now, young Brookside was of so wild, savage, and insubordinate a nature that I never had the least regard for him.  As he grew up to be a man, his hatred for me assumed an intensity quite wicked to think of and which, I promise you, I returned with interest. 
He drags Brookside into his study, slamming the door behind him. 
INT.  LIBRARY - DAY 
Roderick alone.  Brookside enters with a pistol. 
BROOKSIDE (grinding his teeth) Look you now, Mister Roderick James, from this moment on, I will submit to no further chastisement from you! Do you understand that? 
RODERICK Give me that pistol. 
BROOKSIDE Take heed, Mister James.  I will shoot you if you lay hands on me now, or ever again.  Is that entirely clear to you, sir? 
Roderick stares hard at him, then he laughs and sits down. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I decided, at once, to give up that necessary part of his education. In truth, he then became the most violent, daring, disobedient, scapegrace, that ever caused an affectionate parent pain; he was certainly the most incorrigible. 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - BROOKSIDE'S ROOM - DAY 
Brookside smashing a chair over the head of his governor, Reverend Hunt. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Twice or thrice, Reverend Hunt attempted to punish my Lord Brookside; but I promise you the rogue was too strong for him, and leveled the Oxford man to the ground with a chair, greatly to the delight of little Patrick, who cried out:  "Bravo, Brooksy!  Thump him, thump him!" 
EXT.  CASTLE HACKTON - GARDEN - DAY 
Brookside and Patrick. 
RODERICK (V.O.) With the child, Brookside was, strange to say, pretty tractable. He took a liking to the little fellow -- I like him the more, he said, because he was "half a Cosgrove." 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - BALLROOM - NIGHT 
RODERICK (V.O.) Another day, it was Patrick's birthday, we were giving a grand ball and gala at Hackton, and it was time for my Patrick to make his appearance among us. 
There is a great crowding and tittering as the child comes in, led by his half-brother, who walks into the dancing- room in his stockinged feet, leading little Patrick by the hand, paddling about in the great shoes of the older. 
Roderick and the broker. 
BROKER Your wife's life is as well known among the insurance societies in London, as any woman in Christendom, and, I'm sorry to say there is not one of them willing to place another policy against her ladyship's life. One of them even had the impudence to suggest that your treatment of the Countess did not render her life worth a year's purchase. 
EXT.  STUD FARM - DAY 
Roderick buying a horse. 
RODERICK (V.O.) In the midst of my difficulties, I promised to buy a little horse for my dear little Patrick, which was to be a present for his eighth birthday, that was now coming on.  I may have had my faults, but no man shall dare to say of me that I was not a good and tender father. 
Roderick admires the horse. 
RODERICK (V.O.) It was a beautiful little animal, and stood me in a good sum.  I never regarded money for that dear child. 
EXT.  ROAD - DAY 
The horse kicks off one of the horse-boys who tries to ride him. 
RODERICK (V.O.) But the horse was a bit wild, and he kicked off one of the horse-boys who rode him at first, and broke the lad's leg. 
EXT.  ROAD - DAY 
Roderick riding the horse.  The horse-boy lies in the back of a wagon. 
RODERICK (V.O.) But he was a beautiful animal and would make a fine horse for Patrick after he had a bit of breaking-in. 
EXT.  ROAD - NEAR CASTLE HACKTON - DAY 
Roderick dismounts and gives the horse to one of the horse-boys. 
RODERICK Timmy, take the injured lad to see the doctor, and then bring the horse to Doolan's farm, and tell him to break him in thoroughly.  Tell him it's for little Patrick, and that I'll be over to see him next week. 
HORSE-BOY Yes, sir. 
RODERICK One more thing, and listen well, I don't want little Patrick to know where the horse is being kept.  It's going to be surprise for his birthday. 
EXT.  CASTLE HACKTON - DAY 
Patrick rushes out to greet his father. 
PATRICK Hello, papa! 
Roderick picks him up in his arms, and kisses him. 
PATRICK Did you buy the horse, papa? 
RODERICK Now, just have a little patience, my boy.  Your birthday isn't until next week. 
PATRICK But I will have it on my birthday, won't I? 
RODERICK Well, we'll just have to wait and see, won't we? 
He walks up the steps holding Patrick, who hugs and kisses him. 
RODERICK (V.O.) My son, little Patrick Cosgrove, was a prince; his breeding and manners, even at his early age, showed him to be worthy of the two noble families from whom he was descended, and I don't know what high hopes I had for the boy, and indulged in a thousand fond anticipations as to his future success and figure in the world, but stern Fate had determined that I should leave none of my race behind me. 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Roderick is drunk.  Patrick is brought in by his governor, Hunt, to say good night.  His kisses his mother first, then approaches Roderick. 
PATRICK (kissing him) Good night, papa. 
RODERICK Good night, my little darling. 
PATRICK Papa? 
RODERICK Yes? 
PATRICK One of the boys in the stable told Nelly that you've already bought my horse, and that it's at Doolan's farm, where Mick the groom is breaking it in.  Is that true, papa? 
RODERICK (angered) What the devil?  What kind of fools do we have here?  Pottle, who told the lad this story? 
HUNT I don't know, sir. 
PATRICK Then it's true!  It's true!  Oh, thank you, papa!  Thank you! 
He hugs his father. 
COUNTESS Promise me, Patrick, that you will not ride the horse except in the company of your father. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Lady Cosgrove, always vaporish and nervous, after our blessed boy's catastrophe, became more agitated than ever, and plunged into devotion with so much fervor that you would have fancied her almost distracted at times. 
Countess sees visions. 
RODERICK (V.O.) She imagined she saw visions.  She said an angel from heaven told her that Patrick's death was a punishment to her for her neglect of her firstborn.  Then she would declare that Brookside was dead. 
INT.  RODERICK'S STUDY - DAY 
Roderick and his accountant.  Bills, bills, bills. 
RODERICK (V.O.) By now, my financial affairs were near to ruin.  I could not get a guinea from any money-dealer in London.  Our rents were in the hands of receivers by this time, and it was as much as I could do to get enough money from the rascals to pay my wine-merchants their bills.  Our property was hampered, and often as I applied to my lawyers and agents for money, would come a reply demanding money of me for debts and pretended claims which the rapacious rascals said they had on me. 
EXT.  CASTLE HACKTON - DAY 
Mother arrives.  Roderick greets her.  Servants unload her bags. 
RODERICK (V.O.) My mother was the only person who, in my misfortune, remained faithful to me -- indeed, she has always spoken of me in my true light, as a martyr to the rascality of others, and a victim of my own generous and confiding temper. 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - DAY 
Mother supervising kitchen staff. 
RODERICK (V.O.) She was an invaluable person to me in my house, which would have been at rack and ruin before, but for her spirit of order and management and her excellent economy in the government of my rapidly dwindling household staff. 
EXT.  CASTLE HACKTON - GARDEN - DAY 
Roderick and his mother. 
RODERICK (V.O.) If anything could have saved me from the consequences of villainy in others, it would have been the admirable prudence of that worthy creature. 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - DRAWING ROOM - NIGHT 
Action as per voice over. 
RODERICK (V.O.) She never went to bed until all the house was quiet and all the candles out; you may fancy that this was a matter of some difficulty with a man of my habits who had commonly a dozen of jovial fellows to drink with me every night, and who seldom, for my part, went to bed sober. 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - RODERICK'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Actions as per voice over. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Many and many a night, when I was unconscious of her attention, has that good soul pulled my boots off, and seen me laid by my servants snug in bed, and carried off the candle herself... 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - RODERICK'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Action as per voice over. 
RODERICK (V.O.) ... and been the first in the morning, too, to bring me my drink of small beer.  It was my mother's pride that I could drink more than any man in the country. 
INT.  RODERICK'S STUDY - NIGHT 
Roderick and his mother holding a letter before a fire, which slowly brings out the writing in lemon juice between the widely-spaced lines of directions to her milliner. 
RODERICK (V.O.) My mother discovered that always, before my lady-wife chose to write letters to her milliner, she had need of lemons to make her drink, as she said, and this fact, being mentioned to me, kind of set me a-thinking. 
RODERICK (reading letter aloud) "This day, three years ago, my last hope and pleasure in life was taken from me, and my dear child was called to Heaven.  Where is his neglected brother, whom I suffered to grow up unheeded by my side, and whom the tyranny of the monster to whom I am united drove to exile, and, perhaps to death?  I pray the child is still alive and safe. Charles Brookside!  Come to the aide of a wretched mother, who acknowledges her crime, her coldness towards you, and now bitterly pays for her error!  What sufferings, what humiliations have I had to endure!  I am a prisoner in my own halls.  I should fear poison, but then I know the wretch has a sordid interest in keeping me alive, and that my death would be the signal for his ruin.  But I dare not stir without my odious, hideous, vulgar gaoler, the horrid Irish woman, who purses my every step.  I am locked into my chamber at night, like a felon, and only suffered to leave it when ordered into the presence of my lord, to be present at his orgies with his boon-companions, and to hear his odious converse as he lapses into the disgusting madness of intoxication." 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Roderick, and the Countess and mother, at a silent dinner. 
RODERICK (V.O.) It was not possible to recover the name for whom the note was intended, but it was clear that, to add to all my perplexities, three years after my poor child's death, my wife, whose vagaries of temper and wayward follies I had borne with for twelve years, wanted to leave me.  I decided it best not to reveal to her ladyship our discovery, that we might still intercept and uncover further schemes with might be afoot. 
INT.  CASTLE HACKTON - VARIOUS - DAY AND NIGHT 
A few cuts showing Mother keeping an eye on the Countess. 
RODERICK (V.O.) Yet I was bound to be on my guard that she should not give me the slip.  Had she left me, I was ruined the next day.  I set my mother to keep sharp watch over the moods of her ladyship, and you may be sure that her assistance and surveillance were invaluable to me.  If I had paid twenty spies to watch her lady, I should not have been half so well served as by the disinterested care and watchfulness of my excellent mother. 
EXT.  CASTLE HACKTON - GARDENS - DAY 
Roderick walking with the Countess. 
RODERICK (V.O.) My Lady Cosgrove's relationship with me was a singular one.  Her life was passed in a series of crack-brained sort of alternation between love and hatred for me.  We would quarrel for a fortnight, then we should be friends for a month together sometimes.  One day, I was joking her, and asking her whether she would take the water again, whether she had found another lover, and so forth.  She suddenly burst out into tears, and, after a while, said to me: 
COUNTESS Roderick, you know well enough that I have never loved but you!  Was I ever so wretched that a kind word from you did not make me happy? Ever so angry, but the least offer of good-will on your part did not bring me to your side?  Did I not give a sufficient proof of my affection for you in bestowing one of the finest fortunes of England upon you?  Have I repined or rebuked you for the way you have wasted it? No, I loved you too much and too fondly; I have always loved you. From the first moment I saw you, I saw your bad qualities, and trembled at your violence; but I could not help loving you.  I married you, though I knew I was sealing my own fate in doing so, and in spite of reason and duty.  What sacrifice do you want from me?  I am ready to make any, so you will but love me, or, if not, that at least, you will gently us me. 
Roderick kisses her. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I was in a particularly good humor that day, and we had a sort of reconciliation. 
RODERICK (V.O.) One night we stayed at Reading. 
INT.  INN - NIGHT 
Roderick and his wife at dinner. 
RODERICK (V.O.) My lady and I agreed that, with the money, we would go to France, and wait there for better times, and that night, over our supper, formed a score of plans both for pleasure and retrenchment.  You would have thought it was Darby and Joan together over their supper. 
INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Roderick and his wife making love. 
RODERICK (V.O.) O woman!  Woman!  When I recollect Lady Cosgrove's smiles and blandishments, how happy she seemed to be on that night!  What an air of innocent confidence appeared in her behavior, and what affectionate names she called me!  I am lost in wonder at the depth of her hypocrisy.  Who can be surprised that an unsuspecting person like myself should have been a victim to such a consummate deceiver? 
EXT.  GRAY'S INN OFFICE - DAY 
The coach drives up. 
RODERICK (V.O.) We were in London at three o'clock, an half-an-hour before the time appointed. 
INT.  STAIRCASE - DAY 
Roderick and the Countess looking for the office. 
RODERICK (V.O.) I easily found out Mr. Tapewell's apartment:  a gloomy den it was, and in an unlucky hour, I entered it. 
They climb up dirty backstairs, lit by a feeble lamp, and the dim sky of a dismal London afternoon. 
The Countess seems agitated and faint. 
When they get to the door, she stops in front of it. 
COUNTESS Roderick -- don't go in.  I am sure there is danger.  There's time yet, let us go back -- anywhere! 
The Countess has put herself before the door in a theatrical attitude and takes Roderick's hand. 
He pushes her away to one side. 
RODERICK Lady Cosgrove, you are an old fool. 
COUNTESS Old fool! 
She jumps at the bell, which is quickly answered by a moldy-looking gentleman in an unpowered wig. 
COUNTESS Say Lady Cosgrove is here! 
She stalks down the passage, muttering:  "Old Fool." 
INT.  MR. TAPEWELL'S OFFICE - DAY 
Tapewell is in his musty room, surrounded by his parchments and tin boxes. 
He advances and bows, begs her ladyship to be seated, and points towards a chair for Roderick, which he takes, rather wondering at the lawyer's insolence. 
The lawyer retreats to a side-door, saying he will be back in a moment. 
In the next moment, he reenters, bringing with him another layer, six constables in red waist-coats, with bludgeons and pistols, and Lord Brookside. 
Lady Cosgrove flings herself into the arms of her son, crying and whimpering and calling him her savior, her preserver, her gallant knight. 
Then, turning to Roderick, she pours out a flood of invective which quite astonishes him. 
COUNTESS Oh fool as I am, I have outwitted the most crafty and treacherous monster under the sun.  Yes, I was a fool when I married you, and gave up other and nobler hearts for your sake -- yes, I was a fool when I forgot my name and lineage to unite myself with a base-born adventurer -- a fool to bear, without repining, the most monstrous tyranny that ever woman suffered; to allow my property to be squandered; to see women as base and low-born as yourself... 
TAPEWELL For heaven's sake, be calm. 
Tapewell bounds back behind the constables, seeing a threatening look in Roderick's eye. 
The Countess continues in a strain of incoherent fury, screaming against Roderick, and against his mother, and always beginning and ending the sentence with the word "fool." 
RODERICK You didn't tell all, my lady -- I said "old" fool. 
BROOKSIDE I have no doubt that you said and did, sir, everything that a blackguard could say or do.  This lady is now safe under the protection of her relations and the law, and need fear your infamous persecutions no longer. 
RODERICK But you are not safe, and as sure as I am a man of honor, I will have your heart's blood. 
TAPEWELL Take down his words, constables; swear the peace against him. 
BROOKSIDE I would not sully my sword with the blood of such a ruffian.  If the scoundrel remains in London another day, he will be seized as a common swindler. 
