BARTON FINK 
BARTON FINK 
Screenplay 
By 
Ethan Coen & Joel Coen 
FADE IN: 
ON BARTON FINK 
He is a bespectacled man in his thirties, hale but somewhat bookish. He stands, tuxedoed, in the wings of a theater, looking out at the stage, listening intently to end of a performance. 
In the shadows behind him an old stagehand leans against a flat, expressionlessly smoking a cigarette, one hand on a thick rope that hangs from the ceiling. 
The voices of the performing actors echo in from the offscreen stage: 
ACTOR I'm blowin' out of here, blowin' for good.  I'm kissin' it all goodbye, these four stinkin' walls, the six flights up, the el that roars by at three A.M. like a castiron wind. Kiss 'em goodbye for me, Maury! I'll miss 'em – like hell I will! 
ACTRESS Dreaming again! 
ACTOR Not this time, Lil! I'm awake now, awake for the first time in years. Uncle Dave said it: Daylight is a dream if you've lived with your eyes closed. Well my eyes are open now! I see that choir, and I know they're dressed in rags! But we're part of that choir, both of us – yeah, and you, Maury, and Uncle Dave too! 
MAURY The sun's coming up, kid. They'll be hawking the fish down on Fulton Street. 
ACTOR Let 'em hawk. Let 'em sing their hearts out. 
MAURY That's it, kid. Take that ruined choir.  Make it sing! 
ACTOR So long, Maury. 
MAURY So long. 
We hear a door open and close, then approaching footsteps. A tall, dark actor in a used tweed suit and carrying a beat-up valise passes in front of Barton: From offscreen stage: 
MAURY We'll hear from that kid. And I don't mean a postcard. 
The actor sets the valise down and then stands waiting int he shadows behind Barton. 
An older man in work clothes – not wardrobe – passes in front of Barton from the other direction, pauses at the edge of the stage and cups his hands to his mouth. 
OLDER MAN FISH! FRESH FISH! 
As the man walks back off the screen: 
LILY Let's spit on our hands and get to work.  It's late, Maury. 
MAURY Not any more Lil... 
Barton mouths the last line in sync with the offscreen actor: 
MAURY ...It's early. 
With this the stagehand behind Barton furiously pulls the rope hand-over-hand and we hear thunderous applause and shouts of "Bravo!" 
As the stagehand finishes bringing the curtain down, somewhat muting the applause, the backstage actor trots out of frame toward the stage. 
The stagehand pulls on an adjacent rope, bringing the curtain back up and unmuting the applause. 
Barton Fink seems dazed. He has been joined by two other men, both dressed in tuxedos, both beaming toward the stage. 
BARTON'S POV 
Looking across a tenement set at the backs of the cast as the curtain rises on the enthusiastic house. The actors take their bows and the cry of "Author, Author" goes up from the crowd. 
The actors turn to smile at Barton in the wings. 
BARTON 
He hesitates, unable to take it all in. 
He is gently nudged toward the stage by the two tuxedoed gentlemen. 
As he exits toward the stage the applause is deafening. 
TRACKING SHOT 
Pushing a maitre 'd who looks back over his shoulder as he leads the way through the restaurant. 
MAITRE 'D Your table is ready, Monsieur Fink... several members of your party have already arrived... 
REVERSE 
Pulling Barton 
FINK Is Garland Stanford here? 
MAITRE 'D He called to say he'd be a few minutes late... Ah, here we are... 
TRACKING IN 
He leans back and chuckles ruefully. 
BARTON ...I guess I'm sprouting off again. But I am certain of this, Garland: I'm capable of more good work. Maybe better work than I did in Choirs. It just doesn't seem to me that Los Angeles is the place to lead the life of mind. 
GARLAND Okay Barton, you're the artist, I'm just the ten percenter. You decide what you want and I'll make it happen. I'm only asking that your decision be informed by a little realism – if I can use that word and Hollywood in the same breath. 
Barton glumly lights a cigarette and gazes out across the floor. 
Garland studies him. 
GARLAND ...Look, they love you, kid – everybody does. You see Caven's review in the Herald? 
BARTON No, what did it say? 
GARLAND Take my copy. You're the toast of Broadway and you have the opportunity to redeem that for a little cash – strike that, a lot of cash. 
Garland looks at Barton for a reaction, but gets none. 
GARLAND ...The common man'll still be here when you get back. What the hell, they might even have one or two of 'em out in Hollywood. 
Absently: 
BARTON ...That's a rationalization, Garland. 
Garland smiles gently. 
GARLAND Barton, it was a joke. 
We hear a distant rumble. It builds slowly and we cut to: 
A GREAT WAVE 
Crushing against the Pacific shore. 
The roar of the surf slips away as we dissolve to: 
HOTEL LOBBY 
A high wide shot from the front door, looking down across wilting potted palms, brass cuspidors turning green, ratty wing chairs; the fading decor is deco-gone-to-seed. 
Amber light, afternoon turning to evening, slopes in from behind us, washing the derelict lobby with golden highlights. 
Barton Fink enters frame from beneath the camera and stops in the middle foreground to look across the lobby. 
We are framed on his back, his coat and hat. The lobby is empty.  There is a suspended beat as Barton takes it in. 
Barton moves toward the front desk. 
THE REVERSE 
As Barton stops at the empty desk. He hits a small silver bell next to the register. Its ring-out goes on and on without losing volume. 
After a long beat there is a dull scuffle of shoes on stairs. Barton, puzzled, looks around the empty lobby, then down at the floor behind the front desk. 
A TRAP DOOR 
It swings open and a young man in a faded maroon uniform, holding a shoebrush and a shoe – not one of his own – climbs up from the basement. 
He closes the trap door, steps up to the desk and sticks his finger out to touch the small silver bell, finally muting it. 
The lobby is now silent again. 
CLERK Welcome to the Hotel Earle. May I help you, sir? 
BARTON I'm checking in. Barton Fink. 
The clerk flips through cards on the desk. 
CLERK F-I-N-K. Fink, Barton. That must be you, huh? 
BARTON Must be. 
CLERK Okay then, everything seems to be in order. Everything seems to be in order. 
He is turning to a register around for Barton to sign. 
CLERK ...Are you a tranz or a rez? 
BARTON Excuse me? 
CLERK Transient or resident? 
BARTON I don't know... I mean, I'll be here, uh, indefinitely. 
CLERK Rez. That'll be twenty-five fifty a week payable in advance. Checkout time is twelve sharp, only you can forget that on account you're a rez. If you need anything, anything at all, you dial zero on your personal in-room telephone and talk to me. My name is Chet. 
BARTON Well, I'm going to be working here, mostly at night; I'm a writer. Do you have room service? 
CLERK Kitchen closes at eight but I'm the night clerk. I can always ring out for sandwiches. 
The clerk is scribbling something on the back of an index card. 
CLERK ...Though we provide privacy for the residential guest, we are also a full service hotel including complimentary shoe shine. My name is Chet. 
BARTON ...Who is this? 
VOICE Chet! 
BARTON ...Who? 
VOICE Chet! From downstairs! 
Barton wearily rubs the bridge of his nose. 
VOICE ...How d'ya like your room! 
A PILLOW 
As Barton's head drops down into frame against it. 
He reaches over and turns off the bedside light. 
He lies back and closes his eyes. 
A long beat. 
We hear a faint hum, growing louder. 
Barton opens his eyes. 
HIS POV 
A naked, peeling ceiling.  The hum – a mosquito, perhaps – stops. 
BARTON 
His eyes move this way and that. After a silent beat, he shuts them again. 
After another silent beat, we hear – muffled, probably from am adjacent room – a brief, dying laugh. It is sighing and weary, like the end of a laughing fit, almost a sob. 
Silence again. 
We hear the rising mosquito hum. 
FADE OUT 
EXECUTIVE OFFICE 
Barton Fink is ushered into a large, light office by an obsequious middle- aged man in a sagging suit. 
There are mosquito bites on Barton's face. 
REVERSE 
From behind a huge white desk, a burly man in an expensive suit gets to his feet and strides across the room. 
MAN Is that him?! Barton Fink?!  Lemme put my arms around this guy! 
He bear-hugs Barton. 
MAN ...How the hell are ya? Good trip? 
He separates without waiting for an answer. 
MAN My name is Jack Lipnik. I run this dump. You know that – you read the papers. 
Lipnik is lumbering back to his desk. 
MAN Lou treating you all right? Got everything you need?  What the hell's the matter with your face? What the hell's the matter with his face, Lou? 
BARTON It's not as bad as it looks; just a mosquito in my room – 
LIPNIK Place okay? 
To Lou: 
LIPNIK ...Where did we put him? 
BARTON I'm at the Earle. 
LIPNIK Never heard of it. Let's move him to the Grand, or the Wilshire, or hell, he can stay at my place. 
BARTON Thanks, but I wanted a place that was less... 
LIPNIK Less Hollywood?  Sure, say it, it's not a dirty word. Sat whatever the hell you want. The writer is king here at Capitol Pictures. You don't believe me, take a look at your paycheck at the end of every week – that's what we think of the writer. (to Lou) ...so what kind of pictures does he like? 
LOU Mr. Fink hasn't given a preference, Mr.  Lipnik. 
LIPNIK How's about it, Bart? 
BARTON To be honest, I don't go to the pictures much, Mr. Lipnik – 
LIPNIK That's okay, that's okay, that's okay – that's just fine. You probably just walked in here thinking that was going to be a handicap, thinking we wanted people who knew something about the medium, maybe even thinking there was all kind of technical mumbo- jumbo to learn. You were dead wrong. We're only interested in one thing: Can you tell a story, Bart?  Can you make us laugh, can you make us cry, can you make us wanna break out in joyous song? Is that more than one thing? Okay.  The point is, I run this dump and I don't know the technical mumbo-jumbo. Why do I run it? I've got horse-sense, goddamnit. Showmanship. And also, and I hope Lou told you this, I bigger and meaner than any other kike in this town. Did you tell him that, Lou? And I don't mean my dick's bigger than yours, it's not a sexual thing – although, you're the writer, you would know more about that. Coffee? 
BARTON ...Yes, thank you. 
LIPNIK Lou. 
HIS POV 
The empty hallway, a pair of shoes before each door. At the end of the hall a dim red bulb burns over the door to the staircase, punctuating the sick yellow glow of the line of wall sconces. 
The laughter, though still faint, is more resonant in the empty hall. 
Perhaps its quality has changed, or perhaps simply because it is so insistent, the laughter now might be taken for weeping. 
Barton pauses, trying to interpret the sound. He slowly withdraws into his room. 
HIS ROOM 
Barton looks down at his typewriter for a beat. The laughter/weeping continues. 
He walks over to his bed, sits down and picks up the house phone. 
BARTON Hello... Chet? This is Barton Fink in room 605. Yes, there's uh, there's someone in the room next door to mine, 604, and he's uh... He's uh... making a lot of... noise. 
After a beat: 
BARTON ...Thank you. 
He cradles the phone. The laughter continues for a moment or two, then abruptly stops with the muffled sound of the telephone ringing next door. 
Barton looks at the wall. 
The muffled sound of a man talking. 
The sound of the earpiece being pronged. 
Muffled footsteps next door. 
The sound of the neighbor's door opening and shutting. 
Footsteps approaching the hall. 
A hard, present knock at Barton's door. 
Barton hesitates for a beat, then rises to go get the door. 
ON THE DOOR 
As Barton opens it. Standing in the hall is a large man – a very large man – in short sleeves, suspenders, and loosened tie. His face is slightly flushed, with the beginnings of sweat. 
MAN Did you... Somebody just complained... 
Hastily: 
BARTON No, I didn't – I mean, I did call down, not to complain exactly, I was just concerned that you might – not that it's my business, but that you might be in some kind of... distress. You see, I was trying to work, and it's, well, it was difficult – 
MAN Yeah. I'm damn sorry, if I bothered you.  The damn walls here, well, I just apologize like hell... 
He sticks his hand out. 
MAN ...My name's Charlie Meadows. I guess we're neighbors... 
Without reaching for the hand. 
BARTON Barton Fink. 
Unfazed, Charlie Meadows unpockets a flask. 
CHARLIE Neighbor, I'd feel better about the damned inconvenience if you'd let me buy you a drink. 
BARTON That's all right, really, thank you. 
CHARLIE All right, hell, you trying to work and me carrying on in there. Look, the liquor's good, wuddya say? 
As he enters: 
CHARLIE ... You got a glass? It's the least I can do. 
BARTON Okay... a quick one, sure... 
He gets two glasses from the wash basin.  Charlie sits down on the edge of the bed and uncorks his flask. 
CHARLIE Yeah, just a nip. I feel like hell, all the carryings-on next door. 
BARTON That's okay, I assure you. It's just that I was trying to work – 
CHARLIE What kind of work do you do, Barton, if you don't mind my asking? 
BARTON Well, I'm a writer, actually. 
CHARLIE You don't say. That's a tough racket. My hat's off to anyone who can make a go of it. Damned interesting work, I'd imagine. 
BARTON Can be. Not easy, but – 
CHARLIE Damned difficult, I'd imagine. 
As he hands Charlie a glass: 
BARTON And what's your line, Mr. Meadows? 
CHARLIE ...And look, I'm sorry as hell about the interruption. Too much revelry late at night, you forget there are other people in the world. 
BARTON See you, Charlie. 
Charlie closes the door and is gone. 
Barton goes back to his desk and sits. 
Muffled, we can hear the door of the adjacent room opening and closing. 
Barton looks at the wall. 
HIS POV 
The bathing beauty. 
From offscreen we hear a sticky, adhesive-giving-way sound. 
BARTON He looks around to the opposite – bed – wall. 
HIS POV 
The wallpaper is lightly sheened with moisture from the heat. 
One swath of wallpaper is just finishing sagging away from the wall. About three feet of the wall, where it meets the ceiling, is exposed. 
The strip of wallpaper, its glue apparently melted, sags and nods above the bed. It glistens yellow, like a fleshy tropical flower. 
BACK TO BARTON 
He goes over to the bed and steps up onto it. He smooths the wallpaper back up against the wall. 
He looks at his hand. 
HIS HAND 
Sticky with tacky yellow wall sweat. 
He wipes it onto his shirt. 
We hear a faint mosquito hum. 
Barton looks around. 
FADE OUT 
A TYPEWRITER Whirring at high speed. The keys strike too quickly for us to make out the words. 
SLOW TRACK IN 
On Barton, sitting on a couch in an office anteroom, staring blankly.  Distant phones ring. Barton's eyes are tired and bloodshot. 
HIS POV 
A gargoyle secretary sits typing a document. 
The office door opens in the background and a short middle- aged man in a dark suit emerges. 
To his secretary: 
EXECUTIVE I'm eating on the lot today – 
He notices Barton. 
EXECUTIVE ...Who's he? 
The secretary looks over from her typing to consult a slip of paper on her desk. 
SECRETARY Barton Fink, Mr. Geisler. 
GEISLER More please. 
BARTON I'm a writer, Mr. Geisler. Ted Okum said I should drop by morning to see you about the – 
GEISLER Ever act? 
BARTON ...Huh? No, I'm – 
GEISLER We need Indians for a Norman Steele western. 
BARTON I'm a writer. Ted O – 
GEISLER Think about it, Fink. Writers come and go; we always need Indians. 
BARTON I'm a writer. Ted Okum said you're producing this Wallace Beery picture I'm working on. 
GEISLER What!?  Ted Okum doesn't know shit. They've assigned me enough pictures for a goddamn year. What Ted Okum doesn't know you could almost squeeze into the Hollywood Bowl. 
BARTON Then who should I talk to? 
Geisler gives a hostile stare. Without looking at her, he addresses the secretary: 
GEISLER Get me Lou Breeze. 
Reacting to barton's look as he washes his hands. This time, a curt nod accompanies his pleasant smile. 
BARTON 
Looks back down, then up again. 
THE MAN 
Extends a dripping hand. 
MAN Bill Mayhew. Sorry about the odor. 
His speech is softly accented, from the South. 
BARTON Barton Fink. 
They shake, then return to their ablutions. 
We hold on Barton as we hear Mayhew's faucet being turned off and his foot-steps receding. For some reason, Barton's eyes are widening. 
BARTON ...Jesus. W.P.! 
The dapper little man stops and turns. 
MAYHEW I beg your pardon? 
BARTON W.P. Mayhew? The writer? 
MAYHEW Just Bill, please. 
Barton stands with his back to the sink, facing the little man, his hands dripping onto the floor. There is a short pause. Barton is strangely agitated, his voice halting but urgent. 
BARTON Bill!... 
Mayhew cocks his head with a politely patient smile. Finally Barton brings out: 
BARTON ...You're the finest novelist of our time. 
Mayhew leans against a stall. 
MAYHEW Why thank you, son, how kind. Bein' occupied here in the worship of Mammon, I haven't had the chance yet to see your play – 
He smiles at Barton's surprise. 
MAYHEW ...Yes, Mistuh Fink, some of the news reaches us in Hollywood. 
He is taking out a flask and unscrewing its lid. 
BARTON Sir, I'm flattered that you even recognize my name. My God, I had no idea you were in Hollywood. 
MAYHEW All of us undomesticated writers eventually make their way out here to the Great Salt Lick. Mebbe that's why I allus have such a powerful thrust. 
He clears his throat, takes a swig from the flask, and waves it at Barton. 
MAYHEW ...A little social lubricant, Mistuh Fink? 
BARTON It's still a little early for me. 
MAYHEW So be it. 
He knocks back some more. 
BARTON ...Bill, if I'm imposing you should say so, I know you're very busy – I just, uh... I just wonder if I could ask you a favor... That is to say, uh... have you ever written a wrestling picture? 
Mayhew eyes him appraisingly, and at length clears his throat. 
MAYHEW ...You are drippin', suh. 
Barton looks down at his hands, then pulls a rough brown paper towel from a dispenser. 
Mayhew sighs: 
MAYHEW ...Mistuh Fink, they have not invented a genre of picture that Bill Mayhew has not, at one time or othuh, been invited to essay. I have taken my stabs at the wrastlin' form, as I have stabbed at so many others, and with as little success. I gather that you are a fresh-man here, eager for an upperclassman's council. However, just at the moment... 
He waves his flask. 
MAYHEW ...I have drinkin' to do. Why don't you stop at my bungalow, which is numbah fifteen, later on this afternoon... 
He turns to leave. 
MAYHEW ...and we will discuss wrastlin' scenarios and other things lit'rary. 
THE NUMBER "15" 
We are close on brass numerals tacked up on a white door. 
Muted, from inside, we hear Mayhew's voice – enraged, bellowing.  We hear things breaking. Softer, we hear a woman's voice, its tone placating. 
REVERSE TRACKING SLOWLY IN 
On Barton, standing in front of the door. 
The noise abates for a moment. We hear the woman's voice again. 
ON BARTON 
Smoothing up the second swath. 
As he pushes in the second tack he pauses, listening. 
Muffled, through the wall, we can hear a woman moaning. 
After a motionless beat, Barton eases his ear against the wall. 
CLOSE ON BARTON 
As his ear meets the wall. 
The woman's moaning continues. We hear the creaking of bedsprings and her partner, incongruously giggling. 
Barton grimaces, gets down off the bed and crosses to the secretary, where he sits. He stares at the paper in the carriage. 
HIS POV 
The blank part of the page around the key-strike area, under the metal prongs that hold the paper down. 
We begin to hear moaning again. 
BACK TO BARTON 
Still looking; sweating. 
HIS POV 
Tracking in on the paper, losing the prongs from frame so that we are looking at the pure unblemished white of the page. 
The moaning is cut short by two sharp knocks. 
THE DOOR 
As it swings open.  Charlie Meadows leans in, smiling. 
CHARLIE Howdy, neighbor. 
BARTON Charlie. How are you. 
CHARLIE Jesus, I hope I'm not interrupting you again. I heard you walking around in here.  Figured I'd drop by. 
BARTON Yeah, come in Charlie. Hadn't really gotten started yet – what happened to your ear? 
– for Charle's left ear is plugged with cotton wadding. As he enters: 
CHARLIE Oh, yeah. An ear infection, chronic thing.  Goes away for a while, but it always comes back. Gotta put cotton in it to staunch the flow of pus. Don't worry, it's not contagious. 
BARTON Seen a doctor? 
Charlie gives a dismissive wave. 
CHARLIE Ah, doctors. What's he gonna tell me?  Can't trade my head in for a new one. 
BARTON No, I guess you're stuck with the one you've got. Have a seat. 
Charlie perches on the corner of the bed. 
CHARLIE Thanks, I'd invite you over to my place, but it's a goddamn mess. You married, Bart? 
BARTON Nope. 
CHARLIE I myself have yet to be lassoed. 
He takes his flask out. 
CHARLIE ...Got a sweetheart? 
BARTON No... I guess it's something about my work. I get so worked up over it, I don't know; I don't really have a lot of attention left over, so it would be a little unfair... 
CHARLIE Yeah, the ladies do ask for attention. In my experience, they pretend to give it, but it's generally a smoke- screen for demanding it back – with interest. How about family, Bart? How're you fixed in that department? 
Barton smiles. 
BARTON My folks live in Brooklyn, with my uncle. 
CHARLIE Mine have passed on. It's just the three of us now... 
He taps himself on the head, chuckling. 
CHARLIE ...What's the expression – me myself and I. 
BARTON Sure, that's tough, but in a sense, we're all alone in this world aren't we Charlie?  I'm often surrounded by family and friends, but... 
He shrugs. 
CHARLIE Mm... You're no stranger to loneliness, then. I guess I got no beef; especially where the dames are concerned. In my line of work I get opportunities galore – always on the wing, you know what I'm saying. I could tell stories to curl your hair – but it looks like you've already heard 'em! 
He laughs at his reference to Barton's curly hair, and pulls a dog-eared photograph from his wallet. As he hands it to Barton: 
CHARLIE ...That's me in Kansas City, plying my trade. 
Barton crosses to the secretary and sits down, rubbing the back of his head. He rolls up the carriage and looks at the page in the typewriter. 
HIS POV 
The page. 
FADE IN: 
A TENEMENT BUILDING 
On Manhattan's Lower East Side. Early morning traffic is audible, as is the cry fishmongers. 
BACK TO BARTON 
He rubs the back of his head, wincing, as he stares at the page. 
His gaze drifts up. 
HIS POV 
The bathing beauty. 
BARTON 
Looking at the picture. He presses the heels of his hands against his ears. 
HIS POV 
The bathing beauty. Faint, but building, is the sound of the surf. 
BARTON 
Head cocked. The surf is mixing into another liquid sound. Barton looks sharply around. 
THE BATHROOM 
Barton enters. 
The sink, which Charlie apparently left running when he wet Barton's towel, is overflowing. Water spills onto the tile floor. 
Barton hurriedly shuts off the tap, rolls up one sleeve and reaches into the sink. 
As his hand emerges, holding something, we hear the unclogged sink gulp water. 
BARTON'S HAND 
Holding a dripping wad of cotton. 
BARTON 
After a brief, puzzled look he realizes where the cotton came from – and convulsively flips it away. 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN: 
ON THE TITLE PAGE OF A BOOK: 
"NEBUCHADNEZZAR BY W.P. Mayhew" 
A hand enters with pen to inscribe: "To Barton – 
May this little entertainment divert you in your sojourn among the Philistines.  – Bill" 
The book is closed and picked up. 
WIDER 
As-thoomp!-the heavy volume is deposited across the table, in front of Barton, by Mayhew. 
Barton, Mayhew, and Audrey are seated around a picnic table. It is one of a few tables littering the lot of a small stucco open-air hamburger stand. 
It is peaceful early evening. The last of the sunlight slopes down through palm trees. Barton, Mayhew, and Audrey are the only customers at the stand. 
Mayhew's black Ford stands alone at the edge of the lot. 
Mayhew leans back in his chair. 
MAYHEW If I close m'eyes I can almost smell the live oak. 
AUDREY That's hamburger grease, Bill. 
MAYHEW Well, m'olfactory's turnin' womanish on me – lyin' and deceitful... 
His eyes still closed, he waves a limp hand gently in the breeze. 
MAYHEW ...Still, I must say. I haven't felt peace like this since the grand productive days. Don't you find it so, Barton? Ain't writin' peace? 
BARTON Well... actually, no Bill... 
Barton looks nervously at Audrey before continuing. 
BARTON ...No, I've always found that writing comes from a great inner pain. Maybe it's a pain that comes from a realization that one must do something for one's fellow man – to help somehow to ease his suffering.  Maybe it's a personal pain. At any rate, I don't believe good work is possible without it. 
MAYHEW Silent upon a hill in Darien! 
Audrey bursts into tears. Barton puts his arms around her and she leans into him. 
BARTON Audrey, you can't put up with this. 
Gradually, she collects herself, wiping her tears. 
AUDREY ...Oh Barton, I feel so... sorry for him! 
BARTON What?! He's a son of a bitch! 
AUDREY No, sometimes he just... well, he thinks about Estelle. His wife still lives in Fayettesville. She's... disturbed. 
BARTON Really?... 
He considers this for a moment, but his anger returns. 
BARTON ...Well that doesn't excuse his behavior. 
AUDREY He'll wander back when he's sober and apologize. He always does. 
BARTON Okay, but that doesn't excuse his – 
AUDREY Barton. Empathy requires... understanding. 
BARTON What. What don't I understand? 
Audrey gazes at him. 
MAYHEW 
He is very distant now, weaving but somehow dignified in his light summer suit. "Old Black Joe" floats back to us in the twilight. 
FADE OUT 
BARTON'S HOTEL ROOM 
From a high angle, booming down on Barton. 
The room is dark. Barton lies fully clothed, stretched out on the bed, asleep. The hum of the mosquito fades up in the stillness. 
Suddenly Barton slaps his cheek. His eyes open, but he remains still. The hum fades up again.  Barton reaches over and turns on the bedside lamp. His eyes shift this way and that as he waits, listening. 
The hum fades down to silence. 
Barton's eyes shift. 
HIS POV 
The typewriter sits on the secretary, a piece of paper rolled halfway through the carriage. 
THE TYPEWRITER 
Barton enters frame and sits down in front of the typewriter. 
HIS POV 
Next to the typewriter are several crumpled pieces of paper. The page in the carriage reads: 
FADE IN: 
A TENEMENT HOTEL 
On the Lower East Side. We can faintly hear the cry of the fishmongers. It is too early for us to hear traffic; later, perhaps, we will. 
BACK TO BARTON 
Looking down at the page. 
CLOSE ON BARTON'S FEET 
Swinging in the legwell. 
One foot idly swings over to nudge a pair of nicely shined shoes from where they rest, under the secretary, into the legwell. 
We hear typing start. 
THE PAGE 
A new paragraph being started: "A large man..." 
BARTON'S FEET 
As he slides them into the shoes. 
THE PAGE 
"A large man in tights..." 
The typing stops. 
BARTON 
The clapper enters again. 
CLAPPER Twelve baker take two. 
Clap! He exits. 
The wrestler moves toward the camera. 
WRESTLER I will destroy him! 
VOICE Cut. 
The clapper enters 
CLAPPER Twelve baker take three. 
Clap! 
WRESTLER I will destroy him! 
SLOW TRACK IN ON BARTON 
Seated alone in a dark screening room, the shaft of the projection beam flickering over his left shoulder. 
As we creep in closer: 
WRESTLER (off) I will destroy him!... I will destroy him!... I will destroy him!... I will destroy him!... 
Another off-microphone, distant voice from the screen: 
VOICE Okay, take five... 
THE SCREEN 
A jerky pan, interrupted by flash frames. The wrestler is standing in a corner joking with a makeup girl who pats down his face as he smokes a cigarette. 
A cut in the film and another clapstick enters. 
CLAPPER Twelve charlie take one- 
ON THE CLAP: 
BACK TO BARTON 
Staring at the screen, dull, wan, and forlorn. 
VOICE (off) Action. 
THE SCREEN 
The angle is low – canvas level. We hold for a brief moment on the empty canvas before two wrestlers crash down into frame. 
The German is underneath, on his back, pinned by the other man. 
The referee enters, cropped at the knees, and throws counting fingers down into frame. 
REFEREE One... two... 
WRESTLER AAAAHHHH!! 
The German bucks and throws his opponent out of frame. 
VOICE Cut. 
CLAPPER Twelve charlie take two. 
Crash. 
REFEREE One... two... 
WRESTLER AAAAHHHH!! 
BARTON 
Glazed. 
WRESTLER (off) AAAAAAHHHHHH!!... AAAAAAHHHHHH!!... AAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!... 
PAGE IN TYPEWRITER 
The screaming drops out abruptly at cut. We hear only the sound of heavy footfalls on carpet. 
Below the opening paragraph, two new words have been added to the typescript: 
"Orphan?" 
"Dame?" 
The foot falls continue. 
THE HOTEL ROOM 
Night. Barton paces frantically back and forth. 
BARTON No... no... 
Barton is nodding as he shuts the door in Charlie's face. 
He walks back into the room. 
HIS POV 
Audrey's corpse, in long shot, face up on the bed. 
BARTON 
He walks toward the bed, wheels before he reaches it, and starts back toward the door. 
He stops short and turns back again to the room. He averts his eyes – as it happens, toward the secretary. 
He walks stiffly over and sits, his back to Audrey. 
CLOSE ON BARTON 
As he sits in. He stares emptily down at the desk, in shock, totally shut down. Behind him, we can see Audrey on the bed. 
He stares for a long beat. 
Strange, involuntary noises come from his throat. He is not in control. 
Becoming aware of the noise he is making, he stops. 
He lurches to his feet. 
THE DOORWAY 
As Barton enters, opens the door, and sticks his head out. 
HALLWAY 
Barton peers out the see if the coast is clear. 
HIS POV 
The long hallway. 
In the deep background, Chet, the night clerk, is stooping in front of a door to pick up a pair of shoes. Next to him is a castored shoe caddy. 
All of the doorways between us and Chet are empty of shoes. 
CHET 
Close on him as, mid-stoop, he looks up. 
CHET'S POV 
Up the long hall. In the deep background a door is closing. 
CHET 
He pauses, then straightens up and puts the shoes on the shoe caddy. It squeaks as he pushes it on down the hall. 
BARTON'S ROOM 
Barton stands at the door, listening to a very faint squeak. Eventually it becomes inaudible. 
He cracks the door again, looks out, and exits. 
HALLWAY 
Barton goes to Charlie's room and knocks. 
Footfalls end as the door is cracked open. 
CHARLIE Barton. Are you all right? 
BARTON No... Can I come in? 
CHARLIE Why don't we go to your room- 
BARTON Charlie, I'm in trouble. You've gotta help me. 
Once again he is breathing hard. 
Charlie steps out into the hall and shuts the door behind him. 
CHARLIE Get a grip on yourself, brother. Whatever the problem is, we'll sort it out. 
BARTON Charlie, I'm in trouble – something horrible's happened – I've gotta call the police... 
Charlie leads him towards his room. 
BARTON ...Will you stay with me till they get here? 
CHARLIE Don't worry about it, Barton. We can sort it- 
He is pushing Barton's door open, but Barton grabs an elbow to stop him. 
BACK TO BARTON 
His neck goes rubbery. His eyes roll up. His head lolls back to hit the wall. 
BLACK 
Slap! Slap! 
We are low on Charlie, who is following through on a slap and backing away, having aroused Barton. Charlie is now wearing pants but is still in his sleeveless tee, which has blood flecks across the belly. 
CHARLIE You passed out. 
Barton looks groggily up. 
BARTON ...Uh-huh... Where's Audrey? 
CHARLIE She's dead, Barton! If that was her name. 
TRACKING IN ON BARTON 
He stares at Charlie. 
CHARLIE (off) Barton, listen to me. You gotta act like nothing's happened. Put this totally out of your head. I know that's hard, but your play from here on out is just to go about business as usual. Give us some time to sort this out... 
Barton looks at his watch. 
THE WATCH 
CHARLIE (off) ...Just put it out of you head... 
TRACKING 
Toward a pool set in a grand yard with shaped hedges and statuary set amid palms trees. 
Sunlight glitters angrily off the water; we are approaching Jack Lipnik who sits poolside in a white deck chair. 
LIPNIK Bart! So happy to see ya! 
REVERSE 
Pulling Barton, who is being escorted by Lou Breeze. 
Barton is haggard, sunken eyes squinting against too much sun. 
LIPNIK Sit! Talk! Relax for a minute, then talk!  Drink? 
As Barton sits: 
BARTON Yeah... rye whiskey? 
LIPNIK Boy! You writers! Work hard, play hard!  That's what I hear, anyway... 
He laughs, then barks at Lou Breeze. 
LIPNIK ... Lou. 
Lou exits. 
LIPNIK Anyway. Ben Geisler tells me things're going along great.  Thinks we've got a real winner in this one. And let me tell you something, I'm counting on it. I've taken an interest. Not to interfere, mind you – hardly seems necessary in your case. A writer – a storyteller – of your stature. Givitta me in bold strokes, Bart. Gimme the broad outlines. I'm sitting in the audience, the lights go down, Capitol logo comes up... you're on! 
He beams expectantly at Barton.  Barton licks his parched lips. 
BARTON Yeah, okay... well... we fade in... 
Lipnik is nodding, already involved in the story. 
BARTON ...It's a tenement building. On the Lower East Side... 
LIPNIK Great! He's poor, this wrestler! He's had to struggle! 
BARTON And then... well... 
Barton looks back out at the pool, his eyes closed to slits against the sun. He looks back at Lipnik. 
BARTON ...Can I be honest, Mr. Lipnik? 
LIPNIK CAN you?  You damn well better be. Jesus, if I hadn't been honest in my business dealings – well, of course, you can't always be honest, not with the sharks swimming around this town – but if you're a writer, you don't think about those things – if I'd been totally honest, I wouldn't be within a mile of this pool – unless I was cleaning it. But that's no reason for you not to be. Honest, I mean.  Not cleaning the pool. 
Lou has entered with a drink, which he sets next to Barton. Lou sits. 
Barton looks around, takes the drink, sips at it greedily, but must finally take the plunge. 
BARTON Well... to be honest, I'm never really comfortable discussing a work in progress.  I've got it all worked out in my head, but sometimes if you force it out in words – prematurely – the wrong words – well, your meaning changes, and it changes your own mind, and you never get it back – so I'd just as soon not talk about it. 
Lipnik stares at him. His smile has disappeared. There is a long beat. 
Lou Breeze clears his throat. He apparently feels obliged to fill the silence. 
LOU ...Mr. Fink. Never mind me. Never mind how long I've been in pictures. Mr. Lipnik has been in pictures just about since they were invented. HE practically invented them. 
Lipnik has turned to look curiously at Lou. 
LOU ...Now I think if he's interested in what one of his contract employees is doing while he draws pay, I think that employee ought to tell him, if he wants to stay an employee. Right now the contents of your head are the property of Capitol Pictures, so if I were you I would speak up. And pretty goddamn fast. 
BARTON Jesus, Charlie, I... 
CHARLIE Everything's okay, believe me. I know it's rough mentally, but everything's taken care of. 
BARTON Charlie! I've got no one else here! You're the only person I know in Los Angeles... 
He starts weeping 
BARTON ...that I can talk to. 
Charlie, also disturbed and unhappy, wraps both arms around Barton. 
Barton sobs unashamedly into his shoulder. Charlie is somber. 
CHARLIE It's okay... It's okay... 
BARTON Charlie, I feel like I'm going crazy – like I'm losing my mind. I don't know what to do... I didn't do it, believe me. I'm sure of that, Charlie. I just... 
His breath comes in short gasping heaves. 
BARTON ...I just don't know what... to do– 
CHARLIE You gotta get a grip on, brother. You gotta just carry on – just for a few days, till I get back. Try and stay here, keep your door locked. Don't talk to anyone. We just gotta keep our heads and we'll figure it out. 
BARTON Yeah, but Charlie – 
CHARLIE Dammit, don't argue with me. You asked me to believe you – well I do. Now don't argue with me. 
He looks at Barton for a beat. 
CHARLIE ...Look, pal – can you do something for me? 
Charlie hands him his parcel. 
CHARLIE ...Keep this for me, till I get back. 
Barton, snuffling, accepts the package. 
CHARLIE ...It's just personal stuff. I don't wanna drag it with me, but I don't trust 'em downstairs, and I'd like to think it's in good hands. 
Still snuffling: 
BARTON Sure, Charlie. 
CHARLIE Funny, huh, when everything that's important to a guy, everything he wants to keep from a lifetime – when he can fit it into a little box like that. I guess... I guess it's kind of pathetic. 
Wallowing in self-pity: 
BARTON It's more than I've got. 
CHARLIE Well, keep it for me. Maybe it'll bring you good luck. Yeah, it'll help you finish your script. You'll think about me... 
He thumps his chest. 
CHARLIE ...Make me your wrestler. Then you'll lick that story of yours. 
Barton is tearfully sincere: 
BARTON Thanks, Charlie. 
Charlie solemnly thrusts out his hand. 
CHARLIE Yeah, well, see you soon, friend. You're gonna be fine. 
Barton shakes. As they walk to the door: 
BARTON You'll be back? 
CHARLIE Don't worry about that, compadre. I'll be back. 
Barton shuts the door behind Charlie, locks it, and turns around. 
HIS POV 
The room. The bed. The blood-stained mattress. 
Barton walks across the room and sits carefully at the edge of the bed, avoiding the rust-colored stain. For a long beat, he sits still, but something is building inside. 
Finally, when we hear the distant ding of the elevator arriving for Charlie, it erupts: 
Barton sobs, with the unself-conscious grief of an abandoned child. 
HIGH WIDE SHOT 
Barton weeping, alone on the bed, next to the rust-colored stain. 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN: 
BATHING BEAUTY 
With the fade in, the sound of the surf mixes up. 
It is broken by the sound of a door opening. It is the shoeless door in the middle background. 
A hand reaches out to place a pair of shoes in the doorway. 
The hand withdraws. 
The door closes. 
A short beat of silence. 
The distant typing resumes. 
The long empty hall. The distant typing. 
FADE OUT 
OVER THE BLACK 
We hear the distant sound of a woman's voice, tinny and indistinct. 
WOMAN Just a minute and I'll connect you... 
FADE IN: 
CLOSE ON BARTON 
His eyes are red-rimmed and wild. He sits on the edge of his bed holding the phone to his ear. 
His voice is unnaturally loud: 
BARTON Hello? Operator! I can't... Oh! 
He stops, reaches up, takes a cotton wad out of his ear. 
We hear various clicks and clacks as the telephone lines switch, and then a distant ring. The phone rings three or four times before it is answered by a groggy voice. 
VOICE ...Hello. 
BARTON Garland, it's me. 
GARLAND Barton? What time is it? Are you all right? 
BARTON Yeah, I'm fine, Garland – I have to talk to you. I'm calling long distance. 
GARLAND Okay. 
Muffled, we hear Garland speaking to someone else. 
GARLAND ...It's Barton. Calling long distance. 
Back into the receiver: 
GARLAND ...What is it Barton? Are you okay? 
BARTON I'm fine, garland, but I have to talk with you. 
GARLAND Go ahead, son. 
BARTON It's about what I'm writing, Garland. It's really... I think it's really big. 
GARLAND What do you mean, Barton? 
BARTON Not big in the sense of large – although it's that too. I mean important. This may be the most IMPORTANT work I've done. 
GARLAND Well, I'm... glad to hear that – 
BARTON Very important, Garland. I just thought you should know that. Whatever happens. 
GARLAND ...That's fine. 
BARTON Have you read the Bible, Garland? 
GARLAND ...Barton, is everything okay? 
BARTON Yes... Isn't it? 
GARLAND Well, I'm just asking. You sound a little – 
Guardedly: 
BARTON Sound a little what? 
GARLAND Well, you just... sound a little– 
Bitterly: 
BARTON Thanks, Garland. Thanks for all the encouragement. 
He slams down the phone. 
OVER HIS SHOULDER 
A one-quarter shot on Barton from behind as he picks up the cotton wad and sticks it back in his right ear. 
BARTON'S POV 
Mastrionotti is sitting on the edge of the bed reading Barton's manuscript. 
Deutsch stands in front of the desk staring at the bathing beauty. 
MASTRIONOTTI Mother: What is to become of him. Father: We'll be hearing from that crazy wrestler.  And I don't mean a postcard. Fade out. The end. 
He looks up at Barton. 
MASTRIONOTTI ...I thought you said you were a writer. 
DEUTSCH I dunno, Duke. I kinda liked it. 
BARTON Keep your filthy eyes off that. 
Deutsch turns toward Barton and throws a folded newspaper at him. 
DEUTSCH You made morning papers, Fink. 
Barton opens the paper. A headline reads: Writer Found Headless in Chavez Ravine. The story has two pictures – a studio publicity portrait of Mayhew, and a photograph of the crime scene: two plainclothes detectives stare down into a gulley as a uniformed cop restrains a pair of leashed dogs. 
MASTRIONOTTI Second one of your friends to end up dead. 
DEUTSCH You didn't tell us you knew the dame. 
With a jerk of his thumb, Mastrionotti indicates the bloodstained bed. 
MASTRIONOTTI Sixth floor too high for you, Fink? 
DEUTSCH Give you nose bleeds? 
Barton crosses the room and sits at the foot of the bed, staring at the newspaper. 
DEUTSCH Just tell me one thing, Fink: Where'd you put their heads? 
Distractedly: 
BARTON Charlie... Charlie's back... 
MASTRIONOTTI No kidding, bright boy – we smelt Mundt all over this. Was he the idea man? 
DEUTSCH Tell us where the heads are, maybe they'll go easy on you. 
MASTRIONOTTI Only fry you once. 
Barton rubs his temples. 
BARTON Could you come back later?  It's just...  too hot... My head is killing me. 
DEUTSCH All right, forget the heads. Where's Mundt, Fink? 
MASTRIONOTTI He teach you to do it? 
DEUTSCH You two have some sick sex thing? 
BARTON Sex?! He's a MAN! We WRESTLED! 
MASTRIONOTTI You're a sick fuck, Fink. 
DEUTSCH All right, moron, you're under arrest. 
Barton seems oblivious to the two men. 
BARTON Charlie's back. It's hot... He's back. 
Down the hall we hear the ding of the arriving elevator. 
Mastrionotti cocks his head with a quizzical look. 
He rises and walks slowly out into the hall. Deutsch wathces him go. 
HIS POV 
Mastrionotti in the hallway in full shot, framed by the door, still looking puzzled. 
MASTRIONOTTI ...Fred... 
Deutsch stands and pushes his suit coat back past the gun on his hip, revealing a pair of handcuffs on his belt. He unhitches the cuffs and slips one around Barton's right wrist and the other around a loop in the wrought iron footboard of the bed. 
DEUTSCH Sit tight, Fink. 
THE HALLWAY 
As Deutsch joins Mastrionotti. 
DEUTSCH Why's it so goddamn hot out here? 
MASTRIONOTTI ...Fred... 
Deutsch looks where Mastrionotti is looking. 
THE WALL 
JUMPING BACK 
Wide on the hallway. Charlie Meadows has emerged from the elevator and is hellishly backlit by the flame. 
His suit coat hangs open. His hat is pushed back on his head. From his right hand his briefcase dangles. 
He stands motionless, facing us. There is something monumental in his posture, shoulders thrown back. 
MASTRIONOTTI 
Tensed. Behind him, Deutsch gulps. 
MASTRIONOTTI There's a boy, Mundt. Put the policy case down and your mitts in the air. 
CHARLIE 
He leans slowly down to put the briefcase on the floor. 
CLOSE ON MASTRIONOTTI 
Relax. He murmurs: 
MASTRIONOTTI He's complying. 
BACK TO CHARLIE 
He straightens up from the briefcase, a sawed-off shotgun in his hands. 
BOOM! The shotgun spits fire. 
Mastrionotti's face is peppered by buckshot and he is blown back down the hallway into Deutsch. 
Bellowing fills the hallway over the roar of the fire: 
CHARLIE LOOK UPON ME! LOOK UPON ME! I'LL SHOW YOU THE LIFE OF THE MIND!! 
THE HALLWAY 
The fire starts racing down the hallway. 
CLOSE STEEP ANGLE ON PATCH OF WALL 
Fire races along the wall-sweat goopus. 
TRACK IN ON DEUTSCH 
His eyes widen at Charlie and the approaching fire; his gun dangles forgotten from his right hand. 
HIS POV 
Charlie is charging down the hallway, holding his shotgun loosely in front of his chest, in double-time position. The fire races along with him. 
He is bellowing: 
CHARLIE LOOK UPON ME! I'LL SHOW YOU THE LIFE OF THE MIND! I'LL SHOW YOU THE LIFE OF THE MIND! 
DEUTSCH 
Terrified, he turns and runs. 
REVERSE PULLING DEUTSCH 
As he runs down the flaming hallway, pursued by flames, smoke, and Karl Mundt – who, also on the run, levels his shotgun. 
BOOM! 
PUSHING DEUTSCH 
His legs and feet spout blood, paddle futilely at the air, then come down in a twisting wobble, like a car on blown tires, and pitch him helplessly to the floor. 
PULLING CHARLIE 
He slows to a trot and cracks open the shotgun. 
PUSHING DEUTSCH 
Weeping and dragging himself forward on his elbows. 
PULLING CHARLIE 
He slows to a walk. 
BARTON'S ROOM 
Barton strains at his handcuffs. 
HIS POV 
Through the open doorway we see Charlie pass, pushing two shells into his shotgun. 
PULLING DEUTSCH 
Charlie looms behind him and – THWACK – snaps the shotgun closed. 
BARTON ...I'm sorry. 
Wearily: 
CHARLIE Don't be. 
He rises to his feet and kneels in front of Barton at the foot of the bed. 
The two men regard each other. 
Charlie grabs two bars of the footboard frame, still staring at Barton. His muscles tighten, though nothing moves. His neck fans with effort. All of his muscles tense.  His face is a reddening grimace. 
With a shriek of protest, the metal gives. The bar to which Barton is handcuffed had come loose at the top and Barton slides the cuff off it, free. 
Charlie gets to his feet. 
CHARLIE I'm getting off the merry-go-round. 
He takes his shotgun and walks to the door. 
CHARLIE ...I'll be next door if you need me. 
A thought stops him at the door and he turns to face Barton. Behind him the hallway blazes. 
CHARLIE ...Oh, I dropped in on your folks. And Uncle Dave? 
He smiles. Barton looks at him dumbly. 
CHARLIE ...Good people. By the way, that package I gave you? I lied. It isn't mine. 
He leaves. 
Barton rises, picks up Charlie's parcel, and his script. 
THE HALLWAY 
As Barton emerges. Flames lick the walls, causing the wallpaper to run with the tack glue sap. Smoke fills the hallway. Barton looks down the hall. 
HIS POV 
Charlie stands in front of the door to his room, his briefcase dangling from one hand, his other hand fumbling in his pocket for his key. 
With his hat pushed back on his head and his shoulders slumped with fatigue, he could be any drummer returning to any hotel after a long hard day on the road. 
He opens the door and goes into his room. 
BACK TO BARTON 
He turns and walks up the hallway, his script in one hand, the parcel in the other. 
A horrible moaning sound – almost human – can be heard under the roar of the fire. 
BLACKNESS 
STUDIO HALLWAY 
We are tracking laterally across the lobby of an executive building. From offscreen we hear: 
BARTON Fink! Morris or Lillian Fink! Eighty- five Fulton Street! 
Filtered through phone: 
OPERATOR I understand that, sir – 
BARTON Or Uncle Dave! 
Our track has brought Barton into frame in the foreground, unshaven, unkempt, bellowing into the telephone. In a hallway in the background, a secretary gestures for Barton to hurry up. 
OPERATOR I understand that, sir, but there's still no answer. Shall I check for trouble on the line? 
Barton slams down the phone. 
LIPNIK'S OFFICE 
Barton enters, still clinging on to Charlie's parcel. 
Lou Breeze stands in one corner censoriously watching Barton. Lipnik is at the far end of the room, gazing out the window. 
LIPNIK Fink. 
BARTON Mr. Lipnik. 
LIPNIK Colonel Lipnik, if you don't mind. 
He turns to face Barton and we see that he is wearing a smartly pressed uniform with a lot of fruit salad on the chest. 
LIPNIK ...Siddown. 
Barton takes a seat facing Lipnik's desk. 
LIPNIK ...I was commissioned yesterday in the Army Reserve. Henry Morgenthau arranged it. He's a dear friend. 
BARTON Congratulations. 
