THE BATTLE OF SHAKER HEIGHTS 
Written by 
Erica Beeney 
FADE IN: 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
DISTANT GUN AND MORTAR FIRE 
Muffled by the wet green forest. 
The very earth seems to tremble. 
A RABBIT 
Darts out of a log, lifts itself on its hind legs and sniffs the air. 
LOBBED GRENADE EXPLODES 
VOICES and SHOUTS, closer now, mix with the rumbling WAR SOUNDS in a veritable symphony of violence and confusion. 
A DEAD AMERICAN GI lays splayed out, careless in death. 
A pair of SOLDIERS flash among the trees, running hunched over and low, and disappear into the gray blooms of SMOKE. 
For a moment the forest takes a breath. 
Nothing but trembling leaves. Then - The RATTLE of a Jeep Coming closer in fits and starts, GRINDING through low gears. 
A Willys MB appears, CRASHING through the undergrowth. 
It's driven by Private First Class KELLY ERNSWILER. 
Eighteen, if that. Not much meat on him. His insignias indicate he's in the 29th Infantry. 
His face might be attractive, under other conditions. 
He pauses and pulls a map from the pocket of his M41 standard- issue field jacket. 
KELLY Where the hell are those Krauts? 
To give himself courage, he SINGS Tommy Dorsey's "I'll Be Seeing You [in all the old familiar places]" while maneuvering the Jeep through the bushes and rocks. 
He drives straight for a fallen LOG, GUNS the engine and tries to go over it. 
The Jeep's FRONT WHEELS catch on the log. 
The BACK TIRES spin. 
Kelly gets out. Takes off his M1 combat helmet and wipes his face. Assesses the situation. 
He grabs a BRANCH. Jams it under the wheel, trying to lever 
the Jeep free. When -- 
The STUTTER of a nearby MACHINE GUN startles him. 
The branch SNAPS against Kelly's weight. He slips and falls in the mud. 
KELLY Shit. 
Determined, he grabs his pack and carbine and sets off on foot through the forest. 
EXT. CLEARING 
Kelly strides purposefully out of the woods. Pauses against a split-rail fence beneath the innocent sun. 
Across the clearing stands a seemingly abandoned BARN. 
But not for long, as TWO GERMAN INFANTRYMEN appear around the corner of it. 
Kelly moves behind a tree to assess the situation. 
Unaware, the Germans smoke and talk. Kelly's too far away to hear them but he watches their every move. 
They're relaxed, not as on guard as they should be. Their Karabiners rest slung across their backs. 
KELLY Bingo. 
AGAINST THE TREE 
Kelly focuses himself. 
Then he shoulders his carbine. 
Pulls out his dog tags and kisses them grimly. 
EXT. ERNSWILER HOUSE - DUSK 
Kelly's house is a also pretty nice, nothing to be ashamed of. It is smaller and weirder. The flowers and bushes are overgrown and strange sculptures dot the yard, some leaning at precarious angles. 
Kelly washes his Jeep in the driveway. 
EXT. ERNSWILER HOUSE - NIGHT 
Kelly buffs the headlamps with a chamois. The Jeep looks good as new. He pulls a canvas cover over it. 
KELLY Sleep tight Hot Lips. 
INT. ERNSWILER HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Kelly walks in on his dad ABE making sandwiches. A great big pile of cheese and PB&J. 
ABE Sergeant Keller! How was the war? Did we win? 
Kelly doesn't smile at this. He looks at the sandwiches and puts his finger to his chin in a gesture so facetious it's downright angry. 
KELLY Let me guess. Happy Meals for the wavy gravy wellness center? 
Abe grabs two pieces of bread from a loaf. He looks kind. A bit ill-used by life. The phrase "rode hard and put away wet" comes to mind. 
ABE As usual, your cynicism is refreshing. 
He finishes that sandwich and adds it to the pile. 
Kelly pauses while opening the refrigerator. His back tightens. He slams the door with his foot. 
KELLY As usual, your cheerful optimism makes me ill. 
Abe pauses over a slice of bread only briefly. The hostility is nothing new. 
ABE (lightly) You should get that checked. 
Kelly walks through the kitchen and out the back door. 
KELLY (O.S.) Sure thing, doc. Say hello to Leif Garrett for me. 
INT. ERNSWILER GARAGE - NIGHT 
Kelly opens the screen door and pokes his head in. 
A family of Chinese immigrants, the Lings, paints canvases at long worktables. There's a MOTHER, father MAO, grandmother XIOU-XIOU, SON and DAUGHTER. 
Finished canvases hang from the walls and lean in piles against it. All of them are portraits of animals. Some have on hats or clothes. 
Kelly's mom EVE shows grandmother XIOU-XIOU a few strokes with a paintbrush. 
Eve wears jeans. She's one of those young-looking mothers Kelly's friends would have crushes on. If he had any friends. 
MAO (to Kelly) Son of Eve. You are very dirty. 
KELLY (awkward) A rough charge. You know. 
EVE (to Kelly) Don't touch anything. We have to get ready for the Starving Artist show. (to Xiou-Xiou) Now Nana, the gold has to be feathery, not gloppy - see? 
Eve demonstrates on the painting - a pair of monkeys in French court dress. Kelly looks over his mom's shoulder. 
EVE Now you try. 
Grandmother Xiou-Xiou dabs at the painting. 
EVE (to Kelly) She loves the gold. Always overuses it. And usually her touch is so light. 
XIOU-XIOU Gold is the color of the sun. 
Eve moves along the row, stopping to look at the paintings in progress. 
KELLY You know why we never have anything to eat in this house? 
But Eve has stopped behind Mao's painting. She's not paying attention to Kelly. 
EVE Mao, what did we say about the eyes? 
She gestures at the image of a horse done Santa Fe style, lots of pastels, very abstract. 
Mao looks at her quizzically. 
MAO More - empathy? 
EVE That's right. And didn't I tell you to put in more cacti? 
MAO (shakes head) No, no more cacti. Too busy. Simplicity is best. 
His family nods in support of this rash aesthetic statement. 
Eve rolls her eyes. 
KELLY You just used fuck as a verb, noun, and adjective. Impressive. 
Kelly tries to start walking again but Lance has hold of him. 
LANCE Let's see what Beetle Bailey's got in his knapsack. 
Lance grabs Kelly's arm and yanks it back. Kelly still seems unconcerned. 
Suddenly he pulls away, but Lance keeps hold of his backpack. 
Lance holds the backpack up next to his head and points at it, gleeful. 
Lance walks away towards his car. Kelly runs after him. 
Lance holds Kelly off easily with one hand and throws the backpack into his SUV. They STRUGGLE for a minute, until Lance pushes Kelly away, gets in the car. 
Kelly runs next to the car and pounds on the window as Lance drives off. 
Finally, Kelly gives up. Lance turns out of the parking lot and HONKS the horn. 
Kelly shakes his head. 
KELLY Rim job. 
INT. ARMY NAVY STORE - DAY 
Kelly sifts through a pile of backpacks looking for a replacement. From his post behind the counter, Bart sees him and comes over. 
BART Kelly. Hey. 
KELLY You work here? 
BART Just a couple days a month, to get a heads-up on the latest stuff. What are you doing? 
KELLY Looking for a backpack. 
BART Is that all? Don't bother. I have a couple extras at home. I could give you one if you want. 
KELLY (beat) Sure, I guess. 
INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, DAD'S LIBRARY - DAY 
Kelly stands a bit awkwardly waiting for Bart to get the key from the desk to open the door in the corner. The door finally swings open. 
INT. STOREROOM 
Bart and Kelly stand between shelves piled high with war memorabilia. Uniforms in vacu-pac sealed bags, weapons in shoeboxes, cannonballs and tattered and gunsmoke-darkened flags. 
KELLY Very impressive. 
BART My dad's real into hoarding. 
Kelly holds up a flask in a leather case. 
KELLY What's this? 
BART Grant's field flask. 
KELLY Wow. Your dad should meet my history teacher. He sent me to the principal's office today for questioning his G- rated interpretation of the Civil War. 
BART Forget him. 
KELLY I would, but now the principal's making me give a speech on the Civil War at an assembly. 
BART (laughing in sympathy and amusement) What is he, some kind of sadist? 
KELLY She thinks she's doing me a favor. 
BART Jesus, she must think you're really screwed up. Are you? 
KELLY Depends on who you ask. Everyone's got an opinion. 
BART (grabs box) Take this. That'll shut them up. 
Bart opens the long box. Nestled inside is a leg bone with a foot attached to it. 
BART Stonewall Jackson's. 
KELLY Yeah right. 
BART Can you imagine that? Losing your leg and getting back up on your horse? Unbelievable. What balls. 
Kelly nods. That is balls. 
BART He's got so much crap crammed in here he doesn't even notice when it's missing. I saw a backpack in here somewhere. 
Bart puts down the box carelessly and paws through the piles. 
INT. BOWLAND KITCHEN 
Kelly's knees give a bit. Lance holds him up. 
BRIDGET Lance! 
Lance looks over at her and releases Kelly. 
LANCE Okay babe. (to Kelly) One day you and me will be alone. And won't that be nice? 
Kelly is hurt but covering. 
KELLY Too bad my mom won't let me date yet. 
Kelly frowns and adjusts his clothes. Tries to re-wet the dry inside of his mouth with his tongue. 
He turns slowly and trudges up the stairs. 
Sarah has been watching the whole thing from the door. 
SARAH Why do you mess with him? 
KELLY You're right. I should give him a break. 
INT. ERNSWILER HOUSE - DAY 
Kelly watches TV in the living room. His cheek has a nice bruise on it. Eve enters. 
EVE Oh, Kelly, you're home. Good. I need you to go to the art supply store for me. 
Kelly looks at the TV. 
KELLY Get Abe to do it. 
Eve goes to her purse and rifles through it to find her wallet. 
EVE He was going to but he had to go lead a meeting at Care House. 
KELLY What a surprise. 
EVE I'll make it up to you. 
KELLY Where have I heard that before? 
Eve sighs. 
EVE When are you going to give me a break? 
Kelly jabs at the remote. 
KELLY Let me think - maybe when I finally forget every single word of The Little Mermaid soundtrack I'd listen to in the car waiting for him to score. No, probably when I don't prepare myself before I go into the bathroom, expecting to find him passed out on the floor. 
Eve waits through this. 
KELLY Actually, you know what? I know I'll be able to put it all behind me when I go away to college. (slaps his forehead, pretend remembering) Only, I can't go because someone spent my college fund on Mexican Black Tar. So looks like I'll have to try to forget at Shop Rite, where I'll be working for the rest of my life. 
EVE You're right. You have every reason to crawl into the corner and give up. But please just get me some paints first. 
Eve comes over to Kelly. He sighs and puts his hand out. 
KELLY What do you need? 
She gives him the money. 
EVE We need burnt sienna, cadmium red, and midnight blue. Two tubes of blue. (looks at him) What happened to your face? 
She puts her hand up but he moves away from it. 
KELLY Forget it. 
INT. ART SUPPLY STORE - DAY 
Kelly looks through the paints, picking out tubes. He looks up and sees Tabby browsing the paintbrushes. 
He's suddenly nervous. He knocks over a few cans of thinner. Almost leaves. 
Instead, he gathers his courage, goes to the display opposite hers and waits to catch her eye. 
KELLY They're having a sale on glitter. 
It takes Tabby a second to recognize him. 
TABBY Oh, hello. What happened to you? 
KELLY (shrugs) Tennis injury. 
Tabby looks at him suspiciously like she's not sure whether to believe him. 
Tabby finishes with the mediums and moves onto the paints. 
Kelly follows her, staying in the opposite aisle. 
BART General Ulysses S. Grant's field flask, my friend. 
Kelly is shocked. The skinny guy looks at his suspiciously. 
BART Throw in one of those backpacks and we'll call it even. 
The skinny guy looks at Bart, and in the bag again. He goes to get the backpack. Kelly's impressed by this smooth exchange. 
FLEA MARKET - BETWEEN ROWS 
Kelly and Bart weave through the maze of stands. Kelly now holds the backpack. 
KELLY Buying and selling US service medals is illegal. 
BART Exactly. That's why the resale value is so high. 
KELLY Is that what they teach you at Langely? 
BART Don't be so naïve. We all have our skeletons. Some of them just pay more than others. 
KELLY And I'm not even going to ask about the flask. 
BART Don't ask, don't tell. The army gets everything right, don't they? 
CAMPAIGN PIN STALL 
A frowsy WOMAN in a muumuu sits fanning herself in front of an extensive display of pins and buttons. 
WOMAN You boys look like Goldwater fans. 
KELLY I've never been accused of that before. 
WOMAN Well jeez, you don't have to be insulted. 
BART Anything military? 
The woman considers this, her fan working back and forth lazily. 
WOMAN Fish around in that cigar box. 
Bart paws through the box. Acts casual. 
BART What do you want for the box? 
WOMAN Twenty dollars. 
BART Fifteen. 
WOMAN Don't be so hasty. (fanning) I got a few Geraldine Ferraro pins I'm looking to unload. 
FLEA MARKET FOOD COURT 
Kelly and Bart, now wearing the smiling black & white face of Geraldine Ferraro, eat disgusting yet delicious flea market food and watch a slow-motion bingo game. 
KELLY Goldwater fan. I think that's some kind of insult. 
BART Not at Dartmouth. Where are you going to go to school? 
KELLY I'm not. 
BART Ah, you have that luxury. 
KELLY You don't? 
BART (shrugs) I didn't have much say in the matter. Everything has been decided for me since birth. I'm not whining about it. Play the hand you're dealt, right? 
KELLY Easy for you to say. You got a royal flush. 
BART Are you crazy? My life sucks. Everyone's always telling me what to do. You can't fight it. Go with the flow. 
They eat for a minute to the soothing sounds of the BINGO CALLER: TWENTY-ONE, THIRTEEN, FOUR, SEVENTY-EIGHT. 
KELLY What about Tabby? 
BART She got to go where she wanted. Sarah Lawrence. Six years. She's almost done with grad school. Yale. 
KELLY I didn't think people actually went to Yale. 
BART (thinking) I don't know. I mean, she drives off in her car in September. For all we know, she could just pull her car over in Albany and sleep there until May. 
KELLY What do you mean? 
BART It was a joke. Joke? 
Bart does some fake sign language to help Kelly out. 
KELLY Oh. Is that what one of those sounds like? Somehow, I always imagined they would be funnier. 
Bart pushes Kelly, who grabs his arm like it got hurt. 
TABBY Very funny, wiseass. 
Kelly resumes his tour of the room. 
KELLY It must be nice to have a place like this to get away to. 
TABBY It is. 
KELLY What about Farmer? 
TABBY Farmer? 
Tabby unrolls the canvas and measures lengths. 
KELLY The boyfriend. 
TABBY (laughs) Miner? What about him? 
KELLY Is he an artist, too? 
TABBY No. Definitely not. Thank god. 
Kelly is silent for a while, fiddling with a clamp light. 
TABBY You said your mom was a painter? 
KELLY She was, well - is I guess. 
Tabby cuts the canvas. 
TABBY What do you mean? 
KELLY She used to be. But then my dad - wasn't working anymore so she turned it into a business. She has a family of Chinese immigrants in the garage making them for her. 
TABBY Like Andy Warhol's Factory. 
KELLY More like Andy Warhol's tool shed. It was nice before, though. My playpen used to be in her studio. 
TABBY Wow. So you really grew up with it. What does, did, your dad do? 
KELLY He's a VH-1 documentary without the music. 
TABBY "Tragedy struck?" 
Kelly nods. 
KELLY "And then, things took a turn for the worse." 
TABBY Well, just wait. Those burnout types always have a triumphant comeback tour. 
KELLY I already changed the channel. 
Tabby sits back on her heels and looks at him. 
Bart's head appears in the open door. 
BART Christ Kelly, I let you go out on a little supply line assist and you're gone for days. Come on. 
TABBY Have fun, boys. 
KELLY If only it were fun. War's deadly serious, ma'am. 
TABBY (to Bart) And I used to think you were the only crazy one. 
BART Enough with the mind pollution, Hanoi Hannah. 
Bart leaves. Kelly stands by the door. This is his only chance. 
KELLY I'm worried about you playing with diffusion unsupervised. 
TABBY Are you? 
KELLY Yes. I might have to come by and show you the proper safety procedures. Some time in the presence of an art prodigy would do you good. 
TABBY I don't think I have room for a playpen in here. 
KELLY Ouch. 
Tabby smiles. Kelly leaves. 
EXT. BOWLAND YARD - NIGHT 
Bart and Kelly walk across the yard. 
BART So, you have a thing for my sister? 
KELLY What? No, no. 
BART Everybody does. 
Through the twin circles Lance gets into his car in front of his house. 
KELLY I think he's leaving. 
BART Let me see. Don't be a farb, give them up. 
Kelly hands the glasses over. Bart looks through them. Then he puts them down. 
BART The coast is clear. 
The boys looks at each other. 
BART Let me prepare to deploy. 
Bart opens up a duffel bag and pulls out a yellow jumpsuit which he puts on. Kelly looks through the binoculars. 
KELLY Is this going to work? 
BART We've planned for every contingency using the tried and true techniques of the last great world power. 
KELLY Save it for the press conference. 
THE LAWN 
The boys climb down out of the tree house. 
Bart is dressed in an official-looking yellow jumpsuit with telephone repairmen's tool hanging from his belt and a hard hat on. Kelly carries a toolbox. 
BART Stay low. On my signal. 
He looks at Kelly. Then he holds up one finger and gestures "go." They sneak hunched over towards the fence. A LITTLE GIRL comes out of the house and stops when she sees them. 
Bart and Kelly look at each other. Bart takes the toolbox and gestures to Kelly by pointing at the girl and covering his mouth. 
Kelly peels off towards the girl while Bart continues across the lawn. 
The girl starts to SCREAM. Kelly swoops up and covers her mouth with his hand. He tucks her under his arm and runs towards the opposite side of the house. 
He puts the girl down, still covering her mouth. 
KELLY We're the good guys. If you scream, the bad guys are going to come and burn down your house. Okay? So stay here and be quiet. 
The girl nods. Kelly takes his hand off her mouth and starts to sneak away. 
GIRL My dad has a gun. 
Kelly runs across the street to get a view of the front door. 
IN FRONT OF LANCE'S HOUSE 
Bart turns up the driveway and RINGS the doorbell. 
LANCE'S MOTHER opens the door. Bart confers with her briefly and steps inside. The door closes behind him. 
Kelly stares so hard at the door he doesn't see the NEIGHBOR come up behind him. 
NEIGHBOR Can I help you, young man? 
Kelly starts and turns. 
KELLY I was just inspecting your lawn. 
Kelly grabs a few blades of grass. 
KELLY Have you thought about Astroturf? It takes a lot less water to keep green. I mean, no water, technically. 
NEIGHBOR I'm not interested. 
KELLY Oh. I see. Okay then. 
Kelly gets up and starts to walk down the street, only - Lance PULLS UP in his SUV. 
Kelly darts behind a parked car and watches Lance go into the house. 
KELLY Oh, shit. 
Lance comes right back out. He forgot something in his car. 
KELLY Oh, shit. 
Kelly moves around the car, trying to keep it between him and Lance. 
Bart comes down the front walk whistling and eating a cookie. He smiles at Lance, now coming back up the walk. 
LANCE Smile worker bee. I'll be your boss some day. 
Bart nods and tips his HARD HAT. 
Kelly follows him on the other side of the row of cars until Lance's house is out of sight. 
BART Exactly. 
Bart and Kelly share a look. Kelly grins. 
KELLY Let's draw up the plans. 
BART I have a few notes jotted down. 
All we have to do is fill in the details and let Operation Deadmeat begin. 
INT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH - DAY 
Bridget primps at her locker while Kelly watches nervously from his. 
When she starts to close the locker door, Kelly rushes towards her and BUMPS into her. Her books and papers spill to the floor. 
KELLY Oh Jesus, I'm so sorry - 
He starts picking them up. 
BRIDGET Oh, it's okay - 
She looks around. If Lance showed up it wouldn't be good for either of them. 
Kelly hands her the rest of her stuff. They part ways. 
Kelly shoves a piece of paper into his pocket. 
Principal Holmstead CLICKS down the hall in her heels and Kelly DUCKS into a doorway just in time. He turns and pretends to look at a posted announcement as she passes. 
INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, BART'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Bart inspects Bridget's book report with a jeweler's loop. 
He swings over to a piece of stationary Kelly's working on. 
BART She dots her I's with hearts. And her L's are loopier. The L is very important. 
KELLY I'm working on it. 
They both crouch over the paper. 
KELLY I feel kind of bad for her. She's a nice girl. 
BART Sometimes collateral damage can't be avoided. 
KELLY Stop it. 
He pushes back from the table. 
KELLY How does that look? 
BART (inspecting) Pretty good. I think we're ready to manufacture a document. 
Kelly takes out a fresh sheet of paper. 
BART (clears his throat) Begin. "Hey Daddy. It's your birthday and you've been a very bad boy. But so has the baby. Both baby and Daddy have to get punished, only this time 
INT. LANCE'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Lance, shirtless, reads aloud from the letter. 
LANCE (Cont.) - baby makes the rules. Await further instructions at school tomorrow -- 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Bart wears his school uniform and sits in the passenger seat next to Kelly. 
LANCE (V.O. cont'd) -- Baby will be waiting where Daddy least expects her. Love, Bridgie." Yes! 
BART Do you have everything? 
Kelly just looks at him. Bart's already asked this question. 
BART We can't afford any errors. 
KELLY You don't need to tell me. It's my ass on the line. 
Kelly pulls up in front of Bart's school. 
Bart turns to him and puts a hand on his shoulder. 
BART I wish I could be there to see it. 
KELLY You'll get the de-brief. 
BART It's a day that will live in infamy. 
KELLY You couldn't do any better than that? 
TABBY Just don't talk. 
KELLY Why would I? 
TABBY (pause) I'm kidding. 
KELLY Right. Irony. I like that. 
Kelly feels the tubes of paint. Nervous. Squirts some color out. Looks over his shoulder at her. 
He's trying to get his act together, to be cool about being there, in the studio, alone with her. Trying to figure out how to play it. 
MINER (O.S.) Hey! Hey babe. 
Miner opens the door. See Kelly. Smiles like the stockbroker he is and crosses to him. 
MINER Miner Webber. 
Miner holds out his hand for a good old-fashioned shake. 
Kelly takes it. 
KELLY Webber Miner. 
Miner looks confused. 
TABBY Kelly. This is Kelly - 
KELLY Kelly Ernswiler. Sorry. I - 
MINER Quite all right. (smiles as an afterthought) So, what do we have here, a little painting class? 
TABBY Kelly's a friend of Bart's. He paints. 
MINER Oh? What's your real job? 
Kelly smiles eagerly at Miner over the edge of his canvas. 
KELLY That would be stock boy at the Shop Rite. But, as President Don Kaminsky says, every employee is part owner. So you could say I'm a captain-of- industry in training. Kind of capitalist larva. 
MINER That's quite an image. 
KELLY Only if you see the most magical part. Do you see? 
MINER What? 
Kelly spreads his arms out and flaps them a little. 
KELLY One day I'll be a beautiful butterfly. First I'll have to be a pupa though. I figure I won't be going out much then. Pupa: the awkward adolescence of the insect world. 
Miner stares at Kelly. He can't tell what he might be making fun of, or if it might be him. 
MINER Whatever it takes to get you through the day. 
Kelly rolls his eyes at this uninspired response, though Miner doesn't see it. He grabs Tabby's paintbrush and pulls her to him. 
MINER I have the afternoon off. Come away with me. 
TABBY I'm not at a good stopping point. 
MINER Oh, come on. They'll still be here. (to Kelly) I know you'll still be here. 
Kelly smiles his most idiotic energetic smile and slaps paint on his canvas in exaggerated strokes. 
TABBY I really shouldn't. 
MINER But everyone will be coming soon. And it will get all crazy, and we won't have any time to ourselves. 
TABBY We will. I promise. 
Tabby kisses Miner. He realizes there's no convincing her and sighs. 
MINER Like tonight? We can practice honeymoon suite. 
TABBY Maybe. Probably. 
Miner looks at Kelly, who looks away. 
Then he puts his hands in his pockets and leaves. 
Tabby and Kelly paint in silence for a while. Kelly moves around to look at his canvas from different angles, like he's copying what he thinks a painter would do. 
KELLY Is he always like that? 
TABBY Like what? 
KELLY Overbearing. 
Tabby stops and puts down her brush. 
Kelly watches her for a minute, the delicate whoop and swirl of her strokes. 
He dips a brush into the ink and watches Xiou-Xiou's restrained and confident movements. 
Eve leans against the doorframe. 
EVE Hey you two. I'll try not to act surprised. It might spoil the moment. 
Kelly puts down the paintbrush. 
KELLY I can't do this. I have to go. 
EVE Keller, I think I'm missing some art supplies. Have you seen them around the house? 
Kelly avoids her eyes as he leaves. 
KELLY No, I haven't. 
EVE I don't know what to do with him. 
XIOU-XIOU You son is not yet cooked. Give him time. 
Eve looks over Xiou-Xiou's shoulder. 
EVE When are you going to let me give you your own show? We could do it for real. 
XIOU-XIOU No problem. When you offer me an eighty-twenty split. 
INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Kelly eats with the Bowlands - Bart's mom, MATHILDA, his dad HARRISON, and Tabby and Bart. 
The Bowlands dress up a bit for dinner, like any good Wasp family. 
BART (to Harrison) -- But I told you I want to take German -- 
HARRISON German's a Cold War language. You can't get any kind of State Department position without more diverse linguistic training than that. You'll take Chinese. 
Bart frowns. 
HARRISON Are we on the same page? 
BART (mutters) Same page. 
Everyone eats in silence. 
MATHILDA (to Tabby) So darling, when are you going to bite the bullet and do the seating arrangement? 
Tabby puts down her fork. 
TABBY I can't deal with that stuff, ma. I don't care who sits next to whom. I should have eloped. 
KELLY After all, Mrs. Bowland, sometimes when you bite the bullet, it explodes in your mouth. 
Mathilda looks surprised. This could go either way. 
MATHILDA (tentatively) Why, I've never thought about it before but that is a rather strange expression, isn't it? You wouldn't say, "Sooner or later you've got to put the grenade in your pants," would you? 
HARRISON But have you ever noticed how in movies they always bite the grenade before they throw it? 
KELLY Yeah, but they never take a bite out of their pants. 
Everyone but Bart LAUGHS. 
Tabby throws Kelly a grateful glance, for getting her out of a conversation she didn't want to have. 
MATHILDA What an unusual conversation! Do you have similar discussions at the dinner table with your family, Kelly? 
KELLY Basically. I ask why all the furniture is missing and my Dad reminisces about dropping acid and watching Neil Armstrong walk on the moon. 
All but Bart LAUGHS again. 
TABBY He talks about art. 
BART/MATHILDA You do? 
Kelly looks down at his plate. 
KELLY My mother's kind of an artist, so - 
HARRISON You come from a creative family, do you? 
Mathilda salts her food. 
MATHILDA I wish my boys would talk to me about my passions. I can't get them anywhere near the subject of my garden. 
KELLY I noticed your magnolias. Very fine specimens. 
MATHILDA They are fine, aren't they? 
Kelly frowns at the Principal's back as she CLICKS away. 
Sarah appears. They walk down the hall together. 
SARAH What presentation? 
KELLY I don't want to talk about it. As a matter of fact, do me a favor and pretend you never heard anything about it. 
SARAH Okay. Um. 
KELLY What, Sarah? 
SARAH It's nothing. I - 
Kelly starts to pull ahead. 
SARAH I have an extra ticket to Aerosmith this weekend. 
KELLY Aw Sarah, that's really great, I mean. It's just that - I'm busy. 
SARAH Oh. Yeah, I figured. Okay. I'll see you in the dairy section, though. 
KELLY Right. 
She stands there looking lost. 
EXT. BOWLAND HOUSE - DAY 
Kelly smoothes the cover over his Jeep. Bart pulls up to the curb in his BMW. 
KELLY What are you doing here? 
BART I tracked you down. There's someone I'd like you to meet. 
INT. OLD SOLDIERS' HOME - DAY 
A few OLD SOLDIERS sit sunning in chairs in the industrial feeling living-room. 
Bart and Kelly sit across from CHARLIE HAYES, an old black guy, playing dominos. 
CHARLIE (to Kelly) Are you one too? 
KELLY Yup. 
CHARLIE And what do you see in that? 
KELLY Living, dying, camaraderie, bravery - the big stuff. Things we don't have anymore. 
CHARLIE I see. 
Charlie sorts his tiles and scowls. He leans in to Kelly's face, giving him the eye. 
CHARLIE And do you think it's brave getting trench foot and syphilis, eating another ration of spoiled frank and beans out of a dented can? 
Kelly is taken aback by this. 
KELLY Well, no - 
Charlie leans back and nods, thinking about Kelly's response. He no longer seems angry. 
CHARLIE Yeah, that wouldn't be much fun, would it? 
KELLY No, sir. 
Charlie sets down a tile and pulls at his chin. 
CHARLIE Parts of it were kind of fun though. I got separated from my platoon and lived for two weeks in the forest of the Ardennes living off what I could kill. (pause) I felt very close to the land. 
Bart gives Kelly a significant look. Kelly doesn't notice. 
He's looking closely at Charlie. 
EXT. GAS STATION - DAY 
Kelly sits in the car. Bart pumps gas. They talk through the window. 
BART I met him when my mom made me go around caroling with the Youth Group. 
KELLY You don't really believe that stuff about Berlin? And Hitler's compound? 
BART Does it matter? 
KELLY Of course it matters. Doesn't the truth matter? 
Bart grins. 
BART I don't know. You tell me. 
Kelly avoids this by getting out of the car. 
Kelly runs his hand through his hair. He can't bring himself to say what's really on his mind. 
KELLY Remember that stupid speech? 
Kelly picks up Bart's Colt and sights with it. Bart frowns. 
He knows Kelly's avoiding the real stuff. 
KELLY I'm supposed to give it next week. 
Bart polishes his combat boots. 
BART Maybe you should talk to my dad about it. 
KELLY You think he'd go for that? 
Bart keeps his head down, polishes intently. 
BART Of course. He loves you. He was talking the other day about helping you out. (ironic) Want to go to Dartmouth? 
KELLY Are you serious? 
BART He was. If you applied for Spring Semester, he could "pull some strings." 
KELLY (shakes his head slowly) I don't think that would work for me. Considering -- my background. 
BART Yeah, probably not. 
KELLY I'm not properly socialized. I wouldn't fit in. 
Bart checks his bandoleer and cartridges. 
BART That's bullshit. 
KELLY No, it's not. 
BART Tell that to my family. They're like your fucking fan club. 
Bart pauses, darts his eyes at Kelly. 
BART Even Tabby likes you. 
KELLY So much she ratted me out to you. 
BART Well, she's inviting you to the wedding. 
KELLY Oh. 
Bart watches Kelly's face. 
BART But you probably won't enjoy that much, will you? 
KELLY I don't know what you're talking about. Weddings? I love weddings. I always get drunk and make out with someone's cousin. 
Bart throws his olive drab socks at Kelly's head. 
BART Good, I'll call mom's nephew Fletcher and tell him to expect a little action. 
KELLY Fletcher, eh? 
BART He's twelve. Let me give some advice. He's very into sharks at the moment. 
EXT. BOWLAND HOUSE - NIGHT 
Kelly waves to Minnie and goes out the front door. 
There he pauses, trying to decide what to do. Then he scowls. 
He goes around the corner. Towards Tabby's studio. 
INT. TABBY'S STUDIO 
Tabby sits on the couch facing away from the door. Kelly enters. 
KELLY Why did you tell -- 
Tabby turns toward him. She's crying. 
KELLY What? Oh, I'm sorry. 
He knows he should leave, but Kelly just stands there. 
Kelly runs his hand along his pants in a nervous gesture. 
Tabby dabs at her face. 
TABBY Miner and I broke up. 
Beat. 
INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, BART'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Bart sits in his desk chair, frowning. 
Mathilda knocks and opens the door. 
MATHILDA Minnie's starting dinner. Is Kelly coming over? 
BART Not tonight, ma. 
Mathilda pauses and looks at her son. 
MATHILDA Okay, then. 
EXT. BATTLEFIELD - DAY 
An ASSISTANT DIRECTOR and CAMERAMAN unload equipment from a van. 
The DIRECTOR looks off into the distance, trying to visualize. 
Kelly pulls up next to the van. He wears a spotlessly clean uniform. 
DIRECTOR Are you with the 101st or the 82nd? 
KELLY Well, 82nd today. It's not my usual division. Technically, my patches indicate - 
DIRECTOR Whatever. Make yourself comfortable. We'll be a while setting up. Some of the other boys are over by craft service. 
KELLY Oh? 
Kelly doesn't go anywhere. 
DIRECTOR The snack table. It's over there. Someone will come get you when we're ready. 
KELLY Right. Is Bart Bowland here yet? 
DIRECTOR Bart? Oh, Harrison's son. I don't know. 
KELLY Ok. Thanks. 
CRAFT SERVICE 
Kelly and a half dozen other SOLDIERS stand or sit in the grass around the table. They talk and rest on their backpacks. 
A MAKEUP ARTIST makes the rounds. 
MAKEUP ARTIST (to Kelly) And you are? 
KELLY Kelly Ernswiler, private first class. 
MAKEUP ARTIST All right, Kelly. Let's take a look at you. 
She gets out some pomade and runs a comb through his hair, slicking it back. 
MAKEUP ARTIST That's it, handsome. 
Kelly grins. When she walks away he messes up his hair again. 
He scans the crowd. No Bart. 
The A.D. walks over. 
A.D. Okay, everyone. We're going to start positioning. Then we'll go through a few rehearsals. (points at soldiers) You, you and you - go over there by that tree. You and you guys, behind the hill. (looks at clipboard) Okay, who's got the Jeep? 
KELLY That MG? She's mine. 
A.D. Great. We'd like to use it. Can you drive it beyond the hill over there? 
Kelly tries to act casual. 
KELLY Sure. I don't think that would be a problem. 
He walks towards his Jeep and pauses. 
KELLY Have you seen Bart Bowland? Has he checked in? 
A.D. Don't know. We've got enough people. It doesn't matter. 
Kelly nods, wondering a bit. But it's soon forgotten. 
KELLY (to Jeep) Hot Lips, old girl, you're going to be famous. 
A.D. (yells) Okay people. Listen to my voice. From now on, you do whatever this voice says. Take your place. 
BEHIND THE HILL 
Kelly waits with his rifle next to his Jeep, bored. 
He sees a FIGURE in the shadows of the trees. 
Kelly finally pushes Bart off him, gets in his Jeep and drives away. 
A.D. (to cameraman) Follow him. Are you getting it? 
Bart sits on the ground, out of breath. 
A.D. We can use this. We'll cut it together. 
The A.D. directs the camera at Bart. 
A.D. Get close on him. 
Bart pushes the camera away. 
INT. ERNSWILER HOUSE, KELLY'S ROOM - DAY 
Kelly lays in bed staring at the ceiling. There's a cut across his eyebrow. 
Eve comes in carrying her car keys and sits on the bed. 
KELLY I don't want to talk about it. 
EVE Well, you're going to have to. Your father's at the hospital. 
KELLY Which one of his loser friends ended up there? 
Eve plays with her keys. Then she stops. 
EVE They think he has stomach cancer. 
Kelly feels the sensation of falling, like a dream. 
Then he snorts and rolls over, away from his mom. 
KELLY Oh this is just perfect. 
Eve looks at the back of Kelly's head. She's tired but still trying to deal. 
EVE Why would you say something like that? 
KELLY Because it seems to fit. 
EVE "Seems to fit." Do you understand what I just said? 
Kelly gets up. Puts his feet on the floor. His shoulders are slumped. 
KELLY Why, do you want to say it again? 
EVE Kelly - 
KELLY I have to go to work. 
He gets up and holds the door open for her. Eve looks at him, heart heavy. She leaves. 
Kelly sits on the bed. Then he looks at the rabbit painting. 
He grabs it off the wall and SLAMS it backwards against the floor so he doesn't have to look at it. 
The painting falls back against the bayonet fixed to Kelly's rifle and TEARS. 
He KICKS it. 
INT. GROCERY STORE - NIGHT 
Kelly angrily wrestles with giant boxes of paper towels. 
He RIPS open the box and they roll everywhere. 
Sarah watches from checkout. She comes over to help him pick them up. 
SARAH I forgot to tell you this box was booby-trapped. 
Kelly doesn't say anything. 
SARAH The concert was lame. The opening act singer ripped his leather pants during a stupid dance routine and stormed off stage. (pause, looks at his cut) Are you okay? 
KELLY No. 
SARAH Lance? 
KELLY No. 
Kelly gathers an armful of paper towels. 
KELLY Listen, I'm busy. 
SARAH Sure. I understand. 
KELLY I doubt it. 
Kelly closes his eyes. He had forgotten - or tried to forget. 
MR. NORMAN Let's all make our way in an orderly fashion down to the auditorium, shall we? 
The class bolts for the door. 
MR. NORMAN Orderly, I said orderly. 
Mr. Norman looks at Kelly pleasantly. 
MR. NORMAN Well, what are we waiting for? I'm so looking forward to hearing your views. 
INT. AUDITORIUM 
Kelly sits in a chair on the stage next to Mr. Norman. 
A scattering of KIDS sit out in the auditorium. 
Principal Holmstead stands at the podium. 
HOLMSTEAD For those of you who haven't had the chance to get to know Kelly, you should know he has a very interesting hobby. He takes part in reenactments of World War II battles right here in Ohio. 
AUDIENCE KID I did that too. When I was seven. 
Scattered LAUGHTER. Kelly frowns. 
HOLMSTEAD He has an unusual first-hand knowledge of history. We recently discovered that this extends beyond World War II to the Civil War, which he is going to discuss with you today. Kelly? 
Kelly rises to scant applause. He stands at the podium, looking out at the crowd. 
He looks down and thinks. He looks back up. The silence stretches. Kids start giggling. 
Finally he leans into the microphone. 
KELLY I'm sorry. 
He walks off stage. 
HOLMSTEAD (to Mr. Norman) Well, go after him. 
EXT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH - DAY 
On his knees Kelly fumbles with his bike lock, getting madder and madder. Just as he's about to get it undone -- 
Lance appears. 
LANCE What, they re-assign you to the bicycle brigade? 
Kelly frowns at the lock. 
KELLY I'm busy. 
LANCE Too bad, cause I'm not. Remember that little show I put on for the school? 
KELLY I don't know what you're talking about. 
LANCE Oh, come on. Pants down? Doll? Hard on? 
Kelly looks up at Lance. 
KELLY Oh that. I heard about it. 
LANCE And did you hear me and Bridget aren't going out anymore because of it? 
KELLY I haven't been following the story. 
LANCE Yeah well, let's get this over with. 
KELLY It is over. 
Lance pushes Kelly away from his bike. Kelly falls back on his hands. 
He squints up at Lance and moves back towards his bike. 
Lance KICKS him back with his foot and looks at him. 
KELLY Just let me go home. 
LANCE Did you call me a homo? 
Lance KICKS him again. Kelly breathes hard. 
KELLY This isn't a good time for me. Let's re-schedule. 
LANCE No time like the present. 
Lance picks Kelly up and SLAPS him hard on the face. 
KELLY First you should probably get me to write home to my mother. 
Eve rises to her feet. He's just sent her over the edge. 
EVE (yelling) What is wrong with you? When are you going to stop blaming us, blaming him? I'm sick of you being angry. I want to be angry! They just took out half of your father's stomach - 
KELLY Enough. 
EVE (screaming and crying) You will not tell me what's enough. You don't know about anything. All you do is fight fake battles, in the woods, on the playground. But this, right here, us - this is the real one, the only one worth anything. 
She stops and breaks down. 
EVE The man I love is dying. 
KELLY That's between you and him. 
Eve looks at her son. Her face looks older. 
EVE If I made a mistake, if you felt left out, I'm sorry. But I can only deal with one thing at a time. 
Eve leaves. Kelly sits on the toilet, lost. 
INT. KELLY'S ROOM - MORNING 
The sun shines in through Kelly's window. 
He's laying in bed awake - has been for a while. 
He gets up and starts dressing slowly and deliberately. He puts on his best shirt and tie, sensing trouble when the tie's too short. 
He pulls the suit out of his closet. 
The jacket doesn't fit. The sleeves don't even go down to his wrists. 
And he can hardly button the pants. He rips off the jacket. 
He pulls everything out of his closet. Nothing there. 
He sits on the edge of his bed with his head in his hands. 
He looks at his DRESS UNIFORM, hanging on the back of the closet in its dry-cleaning bag, right where his mom left it. 
He shakes his head. No, he couldn't do that. 
Then he sighs. 
EXT. EPISCOPAL CHURCH - DAY 
It's decorated for a wedding. Flower garlands trail up the banisters. 
GUESTS trickle in. 
Harrison, dressed in a suit with a boutonniere on his lapel, talks to an USHER. 
HARRISON Don't sit any of Mathilda's sisters next to me if you can help it. (to guest) Oh, hello. So nice to see you. Thank you for coming. 
Bart comes outside, also dressed as an usher. 
HARRISON (to Bart) Where's the priest? 
BART He should be here any minute. Calm down. 
Bart walks down the steps and looks down the street. 
Kelly's walking towards him. IN HIS DRESS UNIFORM. 
Bart walks down the street to meet him. 
BART What the fuck are you doing? 
Kelly looks down. He can't meet Bart's eyes. 
KELLY I was invited. 
BART I uninvited you. 
KELLY It's not your wedding. 
Bart looks at Kelly and shakes his head. 
BART Why are you wearing that? 
Kelly doesn't answer. 
BART (softening) I can't let you come in. 
KELLY Why? 
BART Because you know why. Just go home. 
Kelly finally looks up at Bart and nods. 
Abe looks at Kelly. 
ABE I bet you could. 
Kelly nods. Eve wakes up. 
EVE Kelly, is that you? 
KELLY You were expecting some one else? 
HOSPITAL CORRIDOR 
Kelly and Eve get snacks from the vending machine. 
KELLY He looks good. 
Eve looks at Kelly, her face full of love and sadness. 
EVE He looks just like you. 
Kelly nods slowly, taking this in. And it is finally too much. 
He breaks down and cries. For the fear and the misplaced rage, the fights and the stubbornness. 
But finally, relief. 
They walk back down the hall together. Eve reaches out and puts her hand on Kelly's neck. 
EXT. BOWLAND HOUSE - DAY 
Kelly rides his bike past the house and stops when he sees the car packed up in front. 
Bart comes out with a box of stuff. 
BART Hey. 
KELLY Hey. You going away already? 
BART Yeah. The have this intensive summer orientation thing. 
KELLY Is that good? 
Bart puts the box in the car. 
BART Well, it's optional, but dad thinks it would be "a good way to meet people." 
KELLY He's probably right. 
BART He usually is. 
They stand there. 
KELLY Well, go Big Green. 
Kelly gives him a little ra-ra with one hand. Bart smiles. 
Kelly's been doing his research. 
BART Thanks. 
Kelly lifts his foot up to the pedal of his bike. 
KELLY Have fun. And get laid, will ya? 
Bart laughs a little and shakes his head. Kelly is gone. 
Harrison comes out. 
HARRISON Is that everything? 
BART Everything you'd let me bring. 
Harrison checks the ties on the roof. 
HARRISON Give me a break. 
INT. GROCERY STORE - NIGHT 
Kelly stocks shelves. 
There's a NEW GIRL working the register. 
Kelly sees SARAH come in. He follows her to the bakery. 
KELLY Hey. 
SARAH Hey. 
Sarah picks some bagels. 
