The Battle of Algiers 
The Battle of Algiers 
1	VILLA HEADQUARTERS. INSIDE. NIGHT. 
Inside a three-story villa, just built, with whitewashed walls. An elevator shaft is empty, the large cables dangle. 
On every landing two apartments. The front doors are wide open. Whitewash on the floor of the halls, swirls of whitewash on the windowpanes, naked light bulbs hung from electric wires. The rooms contain hardly any furnishings. 
The kitchens are still without sinks and stoves. 
An agitated bustle, a rhythm of efficiency. Paratroopers go up and down the stairs, pass along the halls, enter and leave the rooms. 
The sounds in the background are indecipherable. 
SHOUTED ORDERS, CRIES, HOWLS. 
SHOUTS, HALF-SPOKEN REMARKS, LAUGHS. 
SOMEWHERE A GRAMOPHONE IS PLAYING AT FULL BLAST. 
The scene is tense. No pauses. 
When the paras are tired, they move to another room. 
They sit down, stretch out on the floor, drink coffee or beer, and smoke cigarettes while awaiting the next shift. Suddenly, the rhythm of this routine, the timing of these images is upset. A para rushes down the stairs, and asks cheerfully while running: 
MARC The colonel. Where's the colonel? 
PARAS Why? What's happening? 
MARC We know where Ali la Pointe is. One of them "spoke" ... 
His voice echoes through the corridors, on the landings, from one floor to another. The excitement is contagious. Many crowd around the door of the kitchen. 
The Algerian who has "spoken" is there. He is young with a thin face and feverish eyes. The paras are all around him: they help him stand up, dry him, clean his face with a rag, give him some coffee in a thermos cover. They are full of attention, sincerely concerned. One of them tries to push away the others. 
PARA C'mon, let him breathe! 
Meanwhile others who are arriving ask if it is true. 
OTHER PARAS So he spoke? Does he really know where Ali is? 
MARC It seems so. We'll go see. Give him a little coffee. 
Marc is tall and husky, his eyes young and cheerful. One of the others asks him with a shade of admiration: 
PARA Hey Marc, you made him talk? 
MARC (smiling) Sure. 
He then begins to smoke again, and moves aside to rest a bit. The Algerian is trying to drink, but his hands are trembling. Someone helps him and holds still the cover of the thermos, drawing it to his mouth: 
LAGLOY C'mon Sadek ... Drink, you'll feel better. 
The Algerian drinks, but his stomach can't take it, causing him to double over and vomit again. 
Colonel Mathieu enters, elegant and graceful. 
MATHIEU (smiling) At ease. Is it true? 
MARC I think so. Rue des Abderames three ... 
The colonel turns to the para, who had gone to call him, and who is holding a pair of camouflage fatigues in his hands. 
MATHIEU Dress him. 
Then he goes near the Algerian, lifts his chin, inspects him for a moment with curiosity. 
MATHIEU Chin up, it's all over. Nothing can happen to you now, you'll see. Can you stand up? 
The Algerian nods yes. The colonel turns to the paras who are holding him up. 
MATHIEU Let him go. 
He takes the camouflage fatigues and hands them to the Algerian. 
MATHIEU Here, put them on. 
The Algerian mechanically takes the fatigues, but he doesn't understand. The colonel explains to him: 
MACHINE GUN FIRE. 
He moves the gun barrel in a circular direction. 
Immediately the others hurl themselves against the door. 
At the same time, the door of the terrace is broken down, and the paras burst into the house below. 
The inner courtyard is square. In the center there is a well; above, a patch of sky; on four sides, the arcades, columns, and majolica arches. Beneath the porches, there is a door for every dwelling. And above, a balcony with railings and other doors. The doors are wide open. The paras quickly carry out their orders. 
ORDERS, CURT AND BRIEF. 
The people are used to all this and know how to obey. The scene takes place exactly as if it were an arranged maneuver, a practice drill. 
The rooms are emptied in a few seconds. The people are crowded together in the courtyard. 
Eyes wide with fright. 
Men, women, and children with blankets and sheets thrown around their shoulders. By now, it is almost day. A soft light is diffused from above. 
The Algerian walks with his head lowered, Marc on one side, the captain on, the other. 
They climb to the first floor and go along the balcony. 
The Algerian stops in front of a door. 
The captain murmurs softly: 
CAPTAIN Here? 
The Algerian nods yes. They enter. 
4	ALI'S ROOM. INSIDE. DAWN. 
The room is badly lit. There is a mattress on the floor, and another on the table, a cupboard against the wall, some chairs. Nothing else. At the back of the room to the left, there is a dividing curtain hung by a cord at medium height. The curtain is drawn and a large bed with brass headboards is visible. The Algerian points in that direction; the captain signals for him to go there. 
They go forward silently, and push aside the curtain. There is a small light bulb hung on the wall beneath a small shelf covered with postcards and photos. 
The baseboard all around is more than three feet tall and is covered by majolica tiles. 
The Algerian points to a spot in the brick structure, on the back wall, between the headboard of the bed and a corner of the room. 
Marc and the captain have their machine guns ready. The captain goes near the wall, his breath drawn, and begins to examine it. 
He runs the fingernail of his thumb along the wall horizontally, between one row of tiles and another. 
He taps the tiles at different places until he hears the plaster in the interstices crumble. He looks at the bit of plaster that is left in his nail. 
He squeezes it in his fingertips; it is soft, newly laid. 
Then he bends over, places his ear to the wall, and listens. 
Suddenly he smiles. 
5	ALI'S HIDING PLACE. INSIDE. 
There isn't enough air in the hiding place. The four are forced to breathe deeply. And in that small space their laborious breaths resound like splashes. 
Ali la Pointe has his eyes fixed upon the square patch of wall that seals the hiding place. His eyes are large, black, slanted, his eyelids heavy, somewhat lowered, so that the black of the irises appears even blacker in the shadows, deeper and more sullen. 
Petit Omar is with him, a boy of twelve, and Mahmoud who is eighteen. There is also Hassiba, a Kabyle girl, blond, blue-eyed, and fair skinned. 
The hiding place is only five feet high, and hardly holds them. They are sitting or stretched out on the ground, close to one another. 
The entrance to the hiding place is blocked by the small patch of wall which matches exactly the rest. It is held firm by a bar through an iron ring attached at the center. On the other side of the cell, above them, there is a hole for air. 
They are tense and do not move. Their lips are dry, half-open, and their breasts rise and fall in a difficult attempt to breathe. 
CAPTAIN (off) Ali la Pointe ... the house is surrounded. You haven't got a chance. Surrender. Let the child and the girl come out, then you and the other one. Leave your weapons inside. It's useless to try anything. Our machine guns are ready to fire -- you wouldn't have time. Do you understand? 
Ali's face is motionless and hasn't changed its expression. 
CAPTAIN (off) Ali, do you hear me? Listen! You are the last one. The organization is finished. All your friends are dead or in prison. Come out. You'll have a fair trial. Come out, surrender. 
SOUND OF FOOTSTEPS, OTHER VOICES, CHEERFUL, INCOHERENT: 
VOICES PARAS Why are they breathing so heavily? Fear ... Air ... They haven't got enough air inside ... 
And again the voice of the captain, clear and somewhat distant: 
CAPTAIN (off) Make up your mind, Ali? Do you want us to wall you in, or do you prefer that we blow you to pieces? ... Alright. So much the worse for you. 
The youth is unable to shout. He opens his mouth in the attempt, but the only result is a gurgling sound and blood. His friends intervene. Ali is surrounded. The police arrive. A mass of people jump on Ali, kicking him and striking him with their fists as long as they please. Finally the police aid Ali and disperse the crowd. 
Ali is now in handcuffs and being led away. 
More people have arrived. They are yelling, shouting insults, and spitting on Ali. 
Ali passes in their midst protected by the police. He pays no heed to the fist blows, the shouts, the spits, but seems neither to see nor hear, as if he were already resigned to having lost the battle this time, and were preparing to wait patiently for a better chance. 
He is walking with an unfaltering step. His face is emotionless, oval, swarthy. His hair black and wavy, his forehead low and wide; his eyes large and slanted with eyelids somewhat lowered, his mouth firm and proud. 
SPEAKER Omar Ali, known as "Ali la Pointe" born in Miliana, March 1, 1930. Education: Illiterate. Occupation: Manual laborer, farm hand, boxer, presently unemployed. Former convictions: 1942 -- Oran Juvenile Court, one year of reformatory school for acts of vandalism. 1944 -- Two years of reformatory school for theft. 1949 -- Court of Algiers, eight months for compulsory prostitution and resisting arrest. Habitual offender. 
10	PARIS 1955. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
The air is clear and springlike. A 4CV Citroen delivery van is parked in front of the Minister of the Interior warehouses. The rear door is open, the motor is running, a policeman is at the wheel. Two workers in overalls exit from the warehouses. 
Each one is carrying a box, and places it inside the van. The boxes are made of seasoned wood, both of them rectangular. They are each about eight inches long; one and two yards high respectively. The two workers sit down inside the van, toward the rear. They are facing toward the exterior. Their feet are dangling and almost touch the ground. 
The jolting movement of the van in motion causes them to laugh. 
STREETS OF PARIS. Spring. Girls with lightweight clinging dresses. The two workers call them, whistle, gesture, and then move off in the distance. 
ORLY AIRPORT. The van stops in front of a warehouse. The two workers jump to the ground, place the boxes on their shoulders, and enter the warehouse. 
The boxes are moving on a mobile ramp. There is a large label on each one which says: REPUBLIC OF FRANCE. MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR. DESTINATION: BARBEROUSSE PRISON. ALGIERS. 
11	ALGIERS. BARBEROUSSE PRISON. OUTSIDE. MORNING. 
Barberousse prison is situated on the outskirts of the Upper Casbah. It is an ancient fortress with thick, high surrounding walls, which appear to vanish in contrast with the central building which dominates them. The whole structure is covered with limestone like the other houses of the Casbah. Only the bars on the windows and the big gate are black. 
The gate opens. A covered jeep enters the prison courtyard. In the stronghold of the jeep are the two boxes sent from Paris. 
Early morning. The sky is pale blue. In the prison courtyard, the workers open the two chests and assemble the guillotine. It is possible to see it from the cell windows that face the courtyard. Faces of prisoners appear between the bars of some windows. 
The workers have disappeared. Only the delicate, makeshift structure of the guillotine is visible, its slender outline lengthened. 
12	PRISON CELL. INSIDE. MORNING. 
In one of the cells there are about twenty prisoners. The cell is huge; there are two very high windows that almost reach the ceiling. 
A prisoner is standing on the urine bucket, and looks outside through the barred window. On the ground there are some mats which serve as beds. Nothing else. 
About ten prisoners are in a group, seated on the ground, and they are speaking in whispers. 
AD LIB DIALOGUE IN LOWERED VOICES. 
Two of them are playing with some stones on a chessboard drawn in the dirt; others are speaking among themselves. One is reading a Mickey Mouse comic book and laughing to himself. But all of them, in appearance and behavior, are distinguished from those who make up the more numerous group. These solitary men are different in some way, they are not ordinary delinquents. 
Ali la Pointe is alone, withdrawn from the others, seated on the ground, his shoulders propped against the wall, his knees raised. He is barefoot. On his left ankle, directly above his foot, are tattooed two words in print: TAIS-TOI. His shirt is unbuttoned and on his chest are other tattoos in a strange design. 
Ali looks at the group and seems to listen to their murmured words absent-mindedly. His expression is taciturn, reserved, and indifferent. 
Ali turns to the prisoner at the window. 
PRISONER AT WINDOW Look at them! 
Ali jumps to his feet. Everyone moves toward the two windows. 
Ali moves away two yards at a quick pace, then runs toward the window, and grabbing hold of the bars, heaves himself up to it. 
The condemned man turns and looks up toward the windows. He seems to smile although his face is motionless. In a soft voice, he speaks to those faces which appear behind the bars: 
CONDEMNED MAN Tahia el Djez-air! [Long live Algeria!] 
The political prisoners take up the phrase and recite it gutturally, keeping time to the steps of the condemned man. 
POLITICAL PRISONERS Tahia el Djez-air! 
13 	PRISON COURTYARD. OUTSIDE. MORNING. 
The condemned man walks toward the guillotine accompanied by guards and a priest reading the Koran. There is also the executioner wearing a black hood. The executioner tries to appear indifferent. The priest recites his prayers. The entire ceremony seems improvised and hasty. The epilogue is reached quickly. 
PRAYERS. 
The condemned man bends. The executioner places his neck in the right position, adjusts it, turns his head a bit, then pushes his body forward. He releases the mechanism. 
The blade falls, the head rolls. There is no longer a chorus. No one is chanting. 
Ali's eyes have remained motionless. 
Then from above, as the dismembered body is being carried away in a basket, as the priest, the guards, and the officer are leaving, as the workers dismantle the guillotine, from above, from the balconies of the Casbah, suddenly the "ju-jus" of the women are heard, dense like the cries of birds, shrill, metallic, angry. 
Medjebri moves away from the register, still standing behind the bar, to where the policeman is seated. He greets him, and hands him a cup of tea. 
OMAR (off) No. It says the policeman. 
The policeman is leaning on the bar. He is tall and husky, and is wearing a scruffy uniform with a kepi pushed back somewhat. Now his thick lips are sipping the scalding mint tea. 
ALI (off) Okay ... 
The large clock and store signboard. Standing in front, there is a slender girl, veiled, her eyes darting in contrast with the rigid form of her motionless body. Her arms are raised to form an arch, her hands supporting the edges of a large basket balanced on her head. 
OMAR (off) At the corner, right in front of the large clock, there will be a girl carrying a basket. When the policeman comes out, you will follow him together. At the right moment she will give you a pistol. You have only to shoot ... quickly and in the back. 
Now the policeman has finished drinking his tea. He makes a sign to pay. Smiling, Medjebri refuses the money, and says good-bye. 
Ali approaches the girl. They exchange glances. The girl puts down her basket which is filled with corn, and rests it by her side. 
She moves slowly toward the cafe. Ali walks beside her. 
The policeman is coming out of the cafe. He rudely bumps into those who are entering. 
He makes his way along the sidewalk, and moves further away, balancing his heavy body at every step. 
Ali and the girl are about a yard away from him. They follow him, pushed along with the many others who are crowded on the sidewalk. 
Then the girl plunges her hand into the corn. In a second, she places the revolver in Ali's right hand. 
He holds it under his cloak. The policeman's back is a hand's-bredth away. But Ali does not shoot. 
He moves forward to pass by the policeman. 
Alarmed, the girl looks at him, and tries to hold him back. She shakes her head as if to speak. 
Ali smiles at her. His eyes have a hard glint. 
He moves a few steps past the policeman. Suddenly Ali turns, lifts his arm as if to push his way through, and then stretches out his hand with the revolver aimed. 
The policeman stops; his eyes are wide with fear. Instinctively he lifts his arms and opens his palms. 
Terror paralyzes him. 
Ali glances about him. Many people are moving away hastily, but others stand still in a circle and watch fascinated. Ali speaks to all of them, in a loud voice. His eyes are alight. 
ALI Don't move! Look at him. You're not giving any orders now! Your hands are up, eh! Do you see him, brothers? Our masters aren't very special, are they? 
A sharp, metallic click. Ali tries a second time, presses the trigger again. 
SEVERAL CLICKS. REVOLVER EMPTY. 
Ali rolls the gun barrel; it is empty. 
The policeman slowly lowers his hands. His right hand rushes to his holster. 
Ali is ready to jump, throws away the gun, and starts to move forward. 
He knocks down the policeman, who is overwhelmed, and falls backward. 
The crowd moves away quickly. Ali starts to throw himself on the Frenchman lying on the ground, but stops halfway. 
A thought restrains him. He turns and sees the girl who has picked up the revolver and hidden it again in her basket. 
Then she moves away hurriedly. 
Ali curses angrily, then, kicks the policeman's head twice, and runs after the girl. 
He reaches her, grabs her shoulder so roughly that she shouts. 
ALI (in a whisper) Bastard! ... Bitch! 
The girl struggles free from his grip. At the same time, they hear behind them ... 
POLICE WHISTLES. 
The girl quickens her step. 
16 	SIDE ALLEY WITH FRONT DOOR. OUTSIDE/INSIDE. SUNSET. 
The girl arrives at a side street, enters it, and breaks into a run. 
Ali is again beside her, but unexpectedly the girl enters a front door. 
She bends, places the basket on the ground, removes the revolver, and hides it in her breast beneath her shawl. She gets up again, and leaves the basket. Ali blocks her way. 
SPEAKER "Corruption and brutality have always been the most dangerous weapons of colonialism. The National Liberation Front calls all the people to struggle for their own physical and moral redemption -- indispensable conditions for the reconquest of independence. Therefore beginning today, the clandestine authority of the NLF prohibits the following activities: gambling, the sale and usage of all types of drugs, the sale and usage of alcoholic beverages, prostitution and its solicitation. Transgressors will be punished. Habitual transgressors will be punished by death." 
19	BAR. EUROPEAN CITY FACING CASBAH. OUTSIDE/INSIDE. SUNSET. 
It is dusk. In the European city, the first lights are visible. People begin to crowd the bars for an apéritif. 
An Algerian shoeshine man leaves his workbox at the entrance of the bar. He goes to the counter. He is tall and thin as a reed. He takes from his pocket a handful of change; his hands tremble slightly as he counts it. 
The barman recognizes him, fills a glass of wine, and places it in front of him. The Algerian pays and takes the glass. It's probably not his first; the trembling of his hands increases. The Algerian drinks the wine in one gulp, then goes to the door. He waits patiently while some Europeans enter. He goes out, picks up his workbox, and moves away. 
20 	RUE MARENGO AND STEPS. OUTSIDE. SUNSET. 
The Algerian is standing at the top of some steep, almost vertical steps that lead from the European quarters to the Casbah. 
Now he is in rue Marengo. There is still some daylight. The street is crowded. The Algerian is unsteady on his legs. He stops and mutters something to himself. It is obvious that he is trying to hide his drunkenness. 
He begins to walk, his hand against the wall for support. He stumbles. 
The workbox falls, scattering brushes and cans of shoe polish on the ground. The Algerian bends down, and begins to pick up his tools. He is swearing. 
Others have seen him. A peddler points him out to a child of about ten. It is Petit Omar, who nods yes, then whistles. 
Another whistle answers him, then another and another. 
There are other children, at every corner of the street. 
They arrive in a run and gather together. 
Omar points to the drunk who is now moving away, and gives the order to attack. It is evident that this is not a game for them, but a duty. 
There is a chorus of brief shouting, of insults, and whistles. 
The drunk sees them approaching. He is terrified. 
He tries to quicken his step. 
They reach him quickly and surround him. They attack him and then flee, small yet elusive. They do not laugh even once; their faces are hard and cruel. 
The drunk swings around holding his workbox by its strap. 
Some children are hit; some fall. 
The drunk avails himself of this chance to escape, and retraces his steps to the staircase. 
He begins to descend toward the European quarters. But the children are again upon him. 
They are shouting more loudly now, and pushing him. He quickens his step, and staggering jumps the steps two by two. 
The children trip him and he falls. 
He is crying. He shields himself with his hands. 
The workbox has fallen and is rolling down the steps. The children are now on top of him, like small beasts on a carrion. They smother him, push him and pull him. They are no longer shouting. 
All of them are intent upon their efforts. Only the drunk is shouting despairingly. 
They succeed in moving him, and hurl him down the steps. He rolls downward, trying in vain to grab something with his hands. 
21	BAR CASBAH. OUTSIDE/INSIDE. DAY. 
Outside the sun's light is blinding. Inside the small bar there is fresh air and shade. 
A young Algerian, with lifeless eyes and an idle expression, is rolling an opium cigarette. He lights it. Two slaps cause the cigarette to fall from his lips. 
Ali la Pointe is wearing a djellabah, a type of cloak without buttoning which slips on over the head. There is an opening of about eight inches at the waist. 
Ali has stretched his arm through the opening to slap the opium addict, who recognizes Ali, smiles, and makes a dazed grimace. 
OPIUM-ADDICT Ali la Pointe ... 
ALI Wake up! Have you seen Hacene le Bonois? 
OPIUM-ADDICT (shaking his head) Not today ... 
Then he gets up laboriously, bends down, and looks for the cigarette that had fallen from his hand. 
He doesn't reach it. Ali quickly crushes the cigarette with his foot. He is wearing a pair of sneakers. He moves away and leaves the bar. 
22 	STREET BAR. CASBAH. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
Ali continues to scour the streets. From time to time, without lingering, he asks someone: 
ALI They're not paying me anything. They've already warned you twice; this is the last warning. Decide. 
HACENE What ... What must I decide? 
ALI You've got to change occupations, Hacene. Right away! 
Hacene makes a gesture as if to emphasize what he is going to say. 
HACENE (with irony) Okay, you convince me. 
Then suddenly, unexpectedly, he lets out a SHRILL SCREAM, like fencers who before plunging their swords, try to frighten their adversaries. 
Simultaneously, he hurls himself forward, head lowered and arms outstretched. 
Ali steps aside, and releases a BLAST OF MACHINE-GUN FIRE. 
Hacene falls flat on his face. There is movement. Some passersby approach. The three boys try to escape. 
ALI (shouting) Stop! 
The barrel of the machine gun is visible through the opening in his djellabah. Ali's voice is quivering angrily: 
ALI Look at him well! Now nobody can do whatever he wants in the Casbah. Not even Hacene ... least of all you three pieces of shit! Go away now ... go away and spread the word ... Go on! 
26	WEDDING. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
Summer. There is a garland of flowers strung across an alley. A front door is open, and the guests continue to arrive. 
27	WEDDING HOUSE. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
In the inner courtyard, there are benches and chairs arranged in rows. In front of all of them, there are two chairs separated from the rest, one next to the other. In front of them, there is a small table with a pen and inkstand on top. The people remain standing, about twenty Algerians, of all ages. They are speaking among themselves in thick whispers. There is an expectant and ceremonious atmosphere. 
BUZZING. 
Mahmoud was seventeen then. He has soft down on his cheeks, his first beard. He is thin, his neck long and tense, his glance nervous. He appears to be the protagonist of what is about to take place. His hair is combed with care and covered with much hair cream. He is wearing a clean and newly bought white costume. 
Many of the others come to speak with him; the younger ones are joking and trying to provoke him. 
AD LIB REMARKS. 
Mahmoud reacts comically with a grim frown with which he tries in vain to hide his shyness. At the same time, he glances secretly, anxiously, up to the empty balcony on the first floor. Much gay and lively chattering can be heard from an open door above. 
28	WEDDING ROOM. INSIDE. DAY. 
In the room, a group of girls are busy preparing trays with cups of coffee. They are little more than children, twelve or thirteen years old, with soft complexions, white teeth, and shining eyes. They seem children who are playing, but beneath that veneer of gaiety, some anxiety is noticeable, emotions in suspense. The faltering voice of an old woman calls from the adjoining room. 
A girl leaves the group, lifts the dividing curtain, and nearing the bed where the old woman is lying, she kneels beside her. The old woman lifts her hand and places it on the girl's hair, caressing her tenderly. She speaks in a wavering voice, and her small yet kind eyes fill with tears. 
OLD WOMAN'S SPEECH IN ARABIC. 
The girl nods yes, then she gets up and goes to rejoin her companions. Passing before a mirror, she stops a minute to tidy her hair. 
29	WEDDING HOUSE. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
They appear on the balcony, then descend to the courtyard. The nervous glance of Mahmoud scans their faces, then rests upon that girl who, with lowered eyelids, also glances quickly at him. Meanwhile the trays are being passed among the guests. 
Now the people turn to face the front door. A young man has entered carrying a briefcase under his arm. Behind him are two boys who seem to be his bodyguards, and are the only ones dressed in European clothes. Both of them have their right hands under their jackets, which are old and torn. They seem to be armed. They close the door, and remain standing on either side of it. 
The man with the briefcase walks toward the table. All present look at him respectfully. He smiles, responds to their greetings, shakes hands with all. But he refuses coffee and seems to be in a hurry. 
He sits down, places his briefcase on the table, opens it, and takes out a large notebook. From the open briefcase, the metallic butt of a sub-machine gun appears. 
On the cover of the notebook is written: NLF -- ALGERIAN  AUTONOMOUS ZONE. CIVIL RECORDS. 
He turns the pages of the notebook until he reaches the last written page. Then he glances up toward the people who, in the meantime, have taken their seats. He smiles, says a few words, then calls two names. 
Mahmoud walks forward stiffly, erect, his eyes staring straight ahead of him. 
The girl also walks forward, with a perplexed expression. They sit down next to each other, but without looking at each other. The ceremony consists of a few words. Finally the two youths look at each other. Mahmoud tries to smile, but he cannot. 
The girl's expression softens somewhat. Her glance is tender; she lowers her face quickly. Meanwhile the others recite the verses of the Koran in low voices. 
CHORUS. 
30	RUE D'ISLY. OUTSIDE. DAY. JUNE 20, 1956. 8:05 A.M. 
There is a French guard, no more than thirty years old. He has a blond mustache, his beard recently shaved. There are few people in the street. The guard walks slowly, glancing in the shop windows from time to time to admire his reflection. He stops, adjusts his cap, and smiles. 
An Algerian appears beside him; he is also young. The guard pretends to be interested in the photographic equipment which is on display, then moves on. 
The Algerian's arm springs forward and returns quickly to its place. He plunges the knife into the guard's neck. 
The scooter stops in front of the high-test gasoline pump. The attendant is a European, an elderly man, who approaches them holding in one hand some bread he has just unwrapped. He detaches the pump handle of high- test, and asks how many gallons. 
One of the Algerians points a revolver at the attendant, and tells him to pour out the gasoline on the ground all around. The other, meanwhile, goes to the other two gasoline pumps, detaches the handles, and fastens them in an open position in order to empty them of gasoline. He uses two pieces of iron that he has brought with him to clamp the handles open. He stretches the pump hoses as far as they can go toward the garage and the parked cars. 
The gasoline flows all over the large square. The two youths are again on the scooter; they tell the European to move away. They have soaked a rag in gasoline and they light it. 
The gasoline continues to flow from the two open pumps. The European is by now far away, the scooter is already moving away, and at the same time, the boys hurl the lit rag into the square. It immediately bursts into flames. 
35	COMMISSIONER's OFFICE. INSIDE. NIGHT. 
The night of the same day, in an office of the police commissioner's headquarters. On the desk, photos of the day's terroristic attempts are piled in a heap. An employee is in front of his typewriter. 
The Assistant Commissioner is about forty years old, very robust. His face is somewhat wide, ordinary, and with heavy features. He leafs through the photos while speaking on the telephone. It is a very warm night, and the window of the office is open. From outside is heard the SOUND OF TRAFFIC. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER (on telephone) Yes, sir, but they haven't received a search-warrant yet. Rue d'Isly? We followed them for a while, but then we lost track ... Yes, sir, but it is in another precinct. No, it wasn't in theirs ... There are some suspects for rue Marengo ... No ... the judge hasn't given permission yet. He is requesting a formal investigation first. Yes, sir, yes ... Yes, sir, yes -- But we haven't enough men. Of course, I understand ... If it were possible, sir, you should ... but the Commissioner can't ... in ... But couldn't you ... Alright, sir ...  We'll let them cut our throats then! 
He slams the receiver angrily and begins to dictate his report. His voice is harsh, filled with rancor. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Time: 3 P.M. Attempt at homicide against a Patrol of the 3rd B.P.C. Place: Luciani street at El Biar. Weapon: Revolver 7.75. Victim: A soldier wounded in the right leg and groin. Hospitalized. Assailants: Unknown. ... Time: 3:35 P.M. Homicide. Place: Chopin Street, opposite number 20. Weapon: P.M. 38. Victim: Private second-class Dare Jackie, born March 12, 1931. Deceased. Assailant: A moslem. Height: five feet and seven/eights inches. Light colored clothing. Probably escaped in Simca. License plates unknown. Time: Four minutes past 4 P.M. Homicide and attempt at homicide against patrol of border guards. Place: Intersection between Consular Street and General Laquiere ... Wait a minute ... 
The officer stops speaking, takes a glass from his desk, and goes near the window. On the ledge, there is a bottle of beer, left there evidently to keep it a bit cool. He takes it, fills his glass and drinks. 
Then he speaks in a lowered voice, while looking outside, without even giving any directions to the employee who waits with his hands poised about the keyboard of his typewriter. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER I want to see the newspapers tomorrow. If they're still talking about pacification of our Moslem brothers! 
He returns to his desk. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Where were we? 
EMPLOYEE Intersection, between Consular Street and General Laquiere Avenue ... 
36	VARIED FLASHES. POLICE STATIONS. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
In front of police stations: Ain-Zeboudja ... rue Marengo ... and all the others ... in the Casbah ... in the European quarters ... sandbag entrenchments are being prepared, barbed wire is being stretched, metallic lookout turrets are being set up. It is very hot. Workers and policemen work in silence. There is an oppressive atmosphere. 
SPEAKER "Ordinance of the Prefecture of Algiers: All police stations in Algiers, without exception and until further notice, are required to prepare and maintain external protection devices. The shifting of guards outside must continue uninterrupted twenty-four hours a day. Sentinels must be equipped with automatic weapons ..." 
37	EUROPEAN AND CASBAH PHARMACIES. MUSTAPHA HOSPITAL. OUTSIDE/INSIDE. DAY. 
View of pharmacies in the European quarters and in the Casbah. 
The shelves, medicines; people who are buying. The Mustapha hospital, reserved for Algerians. The wards: hospitalized Algerians. 
SPEAKER "The Governor-General of Algiers decrees: Article No. 1 -- The sale of medicinal and pharmaceutical products, effective for the cures of gunshot wounds, can be made only to those who present written authorization from the Commissioner of Police. 
Article No. 2 -- Directors of all hospitals and clinics must produce to the police authorities an immediate listing of all patients admitted to their institutions for the care and treatment of gunshot wounds." 
38	CASBAH ROAD BLOCKS. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
The Casbah is being closed off. Every point of entrance, every alley, every street that joins the Casbah and the European quarters has been blocked off with wooden horses and with barbed wire nine feet high. 
There are also workers, policemen, and soldiers who are working at the barricades. 
Beyond them, on the other side of the barbed wire, the Algerians seem to be encaged. 
SPEAKER "The Prefecture of Algiers states: In the course of these last few days, dozens of assaults have been committed in this city. We have reason to believe that the assailants originate in the Casbah, and that they have always found a speedy and easy refuge in the alleys of the Arab quarters. As a result, and in order to alleviate without delay the insecurity that now reigns in the city, the Prefecture of Algiers has decided that entrance to the Casbah can only he permitted at those points in the blockade under military control, where citizens in transit must exhibit their documents at request, and submit to eventual searches." 
The Casbah is imprisoned, like a huge concentration camp. Only five streets have been left open, the widest streets. There are five exits where the wooden horses serve to restrict passage, and where some wooden posts for the guards are being built. 
Every exit is marked by a sign with large lettering. 
39 	BLOCKADE MARENGO. OUTSIDE. DAY. AUGUST 10, 1956. 
At each blockade, there are two ramps, an entrance and an exit to the Casbah. The Algerians and some Europeans crowd around in both directions. The soldiers are wearing fatigues with helmets and machine guns. The Europeans are not requested to show identity papers. 
The Algerians are often frisked, and accept this fact silently, patiently, without any sign of intolerance. But if the soldiers attempt to search a woman, then, it is different. 
A woman begins to shout, while waving her arms wildly, and pushes away the soldier who had tried to search her. A stream of incoherent words. 
Other Algerians intervene; they push forward threateningly. The soldier is young; he is timid and frightened. He looks over his back for help. 
A police officer approaches. He has a different tone, and a very self- assured manner. He shouts at the Algerians to calm down. 
OFFICER Are you mad, touching one of their women? Go on, go on, alright ... Go ahead, keep moving! 
The woman passes the blockade, but still continues her protest with a shrill and unbearable voice. 
40	RUE PHILIPPE. OUTSIDE. DAY. 8:35 A.M. 
An Algerian woman walks along the sidewalk. She is elderly, fat, and is wearing a traditional costume with her face veiled. She walks slowly toward a bar, which has its tables outside, and already some customers. 
The Algerian leans against the wall, watches the scene, and begins to cry. The policemen jump down from the jeep and leap at him. The Algerian isn't able to speak, but only shakes his head. 
44	POLICE STATION. INSIDE. DAY. 
A room inside the police station. The Algerian's face is beaten from right and left by a series of slaps. 
The room is filled with policemen. All of them are practically on top of the Algerian; all of them are shouting. In the confusion can be heard SHOUTS. 
VARIED VOICES Do you know he's dead, you bastard? Do you know you killed him? 
They try to reach him, pushing against one another in order to get closer and hit him. The Algerian is crying and speaks in broken-off phrases, half Arabic and half French. His continual efforts to repeat certain words are heard: 
ALGERIAN No, no, no, no, ... me no ... Viva France ... 
An officer arrives making his way. 
OFFICER Get out, go on, outside ... Get out of the way! Go away ... 
They make way for him; he reaches the Algerian who tries to smile at him, continually shaking his head: 
ALGERIAN Sir ... sir ... sir ... 
OFFICER What's your name? 
The Algerian's mouth is dry; he tries to swallow. 
ALGERIAN Sir ... sir ... sir ... 
OFFICER What's your name? 
ALGERIAN (straining, still trying to swallow) Lardjane Boualem, sir ... 
45	COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE. INSIDE. NIGHT. 
In the Commissioner's office, the Assistant Commissioner dictates: 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Guilty: Lardjane Boualem, manual worker, married with three children. Resident in rue de Thèbes, number eight ... So? How many today? 
The employee removes the copies from the typewriter and begins to put them in order. 
EMPLOYEE Seven assaults, three dead. 
Then he moves to the desk, and hands over the various copies for signature. 
EMPLOYEE Here, one for the Commissioner ... the press offices ... the archives ... and one for you, sir. 
The Assistant Commissioner signs. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Good, thank you, Corbiere... . See you tomorrow. 
EMPLOYEE Good evening, sir. 
The employee salutes, then moves toward the door. He is about to go out when the Assistant Commissioner stops him. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Tell me ... Where is this rue de Thèbes? 
EMPLOYEE Rue de Thèbes? In the Upper Casbah, I think ... 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER All right. See you tomorrow, Corbiere. 
EMPLOYEE Good evening, sir. 
The employee leaves and closes the door. The Assistant Commissioner crosses the room to the large map of Algiers which covers the entire wall. He moves his finger along the Casbah zone; as he moves it, he follows it with his glance in that tangle of streets. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER (to himself) Rue de Thèbes ... de Thèbes ... 
He has found it. He observes it for a minute, then moves his finger along the road leading to the European quarters. He finds the right route, then concentrates in order to memorize it. 
He returns to the desk, lifts the receiver, and dials a number. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER (on the phone) Hello, Engineer Henry Amaud, please ... He's already left? Alright, yes, yes, alright ... I have the number. 
He clicks the receiver, then dials another number. At the other end of the line, a feminine voice is heard. The Assistant Commissioner abandons his usual peremptory tone. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Hello, Bernadette...Yes, right away. I'm going to change my clothes first, and I'll be right there. My wife is already there, right? No, it's not important. But call Henry for me. Just for a minute ... Alright ... thanks ... 
He places the receiver on the desk, then puts on his jacket which is on the back of his chair. He straightens his tie. Now from the receiver a muffled voice is heard; the Assistant Commissioner picks up the receiver. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Hello, Henry? ... Everything's okay. Good. What are we going to tell our wives? The club? Good idea, yes. I'll be there right away. Just give me time to change my clothes ... Ah, I've found the address. No, it's better to talk in person. Yes, it's the right place ... Okay. Bye. 
He puts down the receiver, then goes to the coat-hanger and takes his beret. He goes out after glancing again at the photos of the day's assaults. 
The streets of the Casbah are deserted, almost completely blackened. Some cats are frightened by the headlights and run close to the walls. 
Inside the car the four men are silent. They keep their eyes fixed straight ahead of them, their faces concentrating, taut. 
ARNAUD This way? 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Yes, it's the first intersection ... or the second. 
50	RUE DE THÈBES. OUTSIDE. NIGHT. 
The automobile slows down at the first intersection. Arnaud leans out the window and looks. There is an enamel nameplate -- RUE DE THÈBES. 
ARNAUD Right or left? 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Try going to the right. 
The car turns right, moving slowly. 
On one side of the street, the even numbers are getting higher: 26 ... 
ARNAUD What number is it? 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Eight. 
The man next to the Assistant Commissioner says: 
FRIEND Let's park here. It doesn't matter. 
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER (in sharp tone) It does matter. Go back, Henry. Let's go to number eight. 
Arnaud puts the gears in reverse; the car moves back quickly and passes the intersection: 16 ... 14 ... 12 ... 10 ... 8... it stops. 
Arnaud puts it in neutral. With the motor still running, he presses the cigarette lighter on the dashboard. 
The Assistant Commissioner takes a large package that he is holding under his legs on the car floor. It is wrapped in pieces of newspaper. He lifts it forward. The man who is next to Arnaud takes it, leans it against the back of his seat, touches it until he finds the right spot, unwraps it from that part, and straightens a small plastic tube which appears at the opening. It is a fuse. 
ARNAUD How long do you want the timing device? 
FRIEND Five minutes. Give me a match ... 
Arnaud takes the cigarette lighter from the dashboard. 
The other man has opened the car door. He takes the lighter and touches it to the fuse which ignites immediately. The door of number eight is very near, almost directly opposite the car door. 
The man places the package in a shady area and returns to the car in a run. Arnaud has already changed gears, releases the clutch, and the automobile shoots forward. 
51	RUE DE THÈBES. EXPLOSION. OUTSIDE. NIGHT. AUGUST 11, 1956. 12:20 A.M. 
The explosion is very violent. The fronts of buildings number eight, ten, and twelve explode and collapse. 
EXPLOSION. 
The echo of the explosion has ended. There is a long pause, only some isolated noises resound. They are stressed, recognizable: a burning beam, the thud of falling debris, broken glass ... 
Then suddenly and almost simultaneously with the other sounds, after the shock, the human voices, the shouts and weeping are heard. 
VOICES, SHOUTS, WEEPING. 
52	RUE DE THÈBES. OUTSIDE. DAWN. 
The dawn's light is clear and white. It dispels every shadow and designs precisely every outline. Here and there, in the middle of the sky, there are numerous clouds of dust, strangely motionless. In the light, the human figures seem black. Seen from a distance, they seem to be ants upon heaps of debris. There are women, motionless, weeping softly, their voices similar to prayer. From time to time, there is a sudden scream, a despairing sob, someone running. 
Another corpse is pulled out from the rubble, bodies mutilated or still intact -- they are all dead. 
The people continue to rummage through the debris and to wait around pitifully. 
53	CASBAH STREETS. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
But there is no pity in the other streets and alleys of the Casbah, or at the top of the steps. There is anger and hatred. The people are running and shouting. 
They are shouting from their windows and balconies: 
JU-JU. 
They smother every other sound. The excitement increases. They run where there is more shouting, more people. They don't know what to do yet, but want to be together. Until there is a voice stronger and clearer than the others which gives them a goal and direction. 
Ali la Pointe points below beyond the slopes of the alleys and stairways. There below are the European quarters which widen near the sea. 
The crowd is shouting, pushing, rushing forward with him, like a raging stream, tumultuous and unrestrainable. Ali is together with his men, five boys, one of them older than twenty. All of them are armed. The crowd forces them to quicken their step to a run. 
Petit Omar is furthest in the rear. He is wearing a pair of short pants, his chest bare; he is barefoot. He calls Ali with all his might, but in vain. 
The tailor accompanies her to the back of the shop, where there is a workroom and young girls who are sewing. He rummages in a closet, takes out an Air France utility bag and gives it to Zohra who hides it under her cloak, greets him, and leaves. 
57	RUE DU CHÊNE. INSIDE. DAY. 
Inside number three rue du Chêne, an Algerian craftsman is working in filigree. Djamila takes a small leather cosmetic case. 
Djamila hides it, greets the man, and leaves. 
58	ALLEY AND BLOCKADE. RUE MARENGO. INSIDE/OUTSIDE. DAY. 6:05 P.M. 
At an intersection of rue Marengo, an alley, Hassiba enters a large door, and shuts it. In a second, she has removed her veil and cloak. Her face is made up; she is wearing pants and a jersey top. She places the strap of her bag on her shoulder. 
Inside the bag, a towel and bathing suit are visible. 
Hassiba goes out the door, proceeds down the alley until she reaches rue Marengo. She approaches the blockade. 
It is Saturday evening; there is a hurried bustle of Algerians and Europeans. Soldiers and policemen, are very busy with their usual requests for documents. 
Hassiba's arrival is quickly noticed for she is very pretty and attracts much attention. Some soldiers whistle. 
An elderly Algerian woman looks at her with dislike. Hassiba is indifferent and waits her turn. A French soldier approaches her. 
SOLDIER I'd like to search you, Miss ... 
For an instant, Hassiba is dismayed; then, she glances down at her clinging shirt and pants. 
HASSIBA (innocently) Where? 
The boy is young, handsome, and cheeky. 
SOLDIER Not here. There's too many people. 
HASSIBA But you don't understand. I was saying that there's nothing to search. 
SOLDIER That's what you think! 
Some Europeans laugh, the Algerians seem not to see or hear, but it is evident that they are scornful. 
SECOND SOLDIER Are you going for a swim, Miss ... all by yourself? 
HASSIBA No, with some friends. 
At the same time, she passes the blockade. 
SECOND SOLDIER Lucky them. Next Sunday I'm free .... Shall we go together? 
Hassiba shrugs her shoulders, smiles again, and moves away. 
59	BLOCKADE RUE DU DIVAN. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
At the rue du Divan blockade, Zohra too is dressed like a European, and seems to be calm. 
There are not too many people. A soldier makes a sign for her to pass in a hurried manner, and the girl passes. 
60	BLOCKADE RUE DE LA LYRE. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
Djamila is tense, pale, her features are strained. Her eyes seem even larger with make-up. Now, at the blockade at rue de la Lyre, the Casbah exit is blocked. An Algerian has been discovered without documents. He argues, shouts, and says that he wants to go back. 
INCOHERENT VOICES. 
The soldiers try to catch him, he struggles to get free. 
Meanwhile the people push forward in protest. Two soldiers catch the Algerian, and drag him bodily into the guard posts. The flow of people continues. 
Djamila steps forward, holding the cosmetic-case with both of her hands. She doesn't know how to carry it, and from time to time she changes her position. She realizes that she looks awkward. 
It's now her turn. The soldiers' tone is arrogant. The previous scene has made them nervous. An officer signals her to pass, then points to the cosmetic-case. 
OFFICER What's inside? 
Instinctively, Djamila lifts the case and looks at it; she feels herself failing, but makes an effort to answer. 
DJAMILA Here? 
OFFICER There ... 
Djamila uses all her strength to smile and she succeeds. Her eyes light up defiantly. 
DJAMILA (provocatively) Nothing. 
The officer signals her to pass. 
MATHIEU Now number two and number three choose, in their turn, two men each ... number four and five, and so on ... 
Mathieu writes the new numbers, spacing them on the next line. Then he unites two to four and five, and three to six and seven, forming two new triangles. 
Mathieu has written other numbers and unites them to those of the preceding line and thus forms other triangles. Now the blackboard is covered by a series of triangles that form a large pyramid. 
MATHIEU The reason for this geometry is so that every militant will know only three members in the entire organization: his commander who has chosen him, and the two members that he himself has chosen ... Contacts take place only by written instructions ... That is why we do not know our adversaries: because, in practice, they do not even know each other. 
Mathieu leaves the blackboard and moves near the officers. The tone of his voice changes. The explanation is now finished. He gives directions ... 
MATHIEU To know them means to eliminate them. Consequently, the military aspect is secondary to the police method. I know we are not fond of this word, but it is the only word that indicates exactly the type of work that we must perform. We must make the necessary investigations in order to proceed from one vertex to another in the entire pyramid. The reason for this work is information. The method is interrogation. And interrogation becomes a method when conducted in a manner so as to always obtain a result, or rather, an answer. In practice, demonstrating a false humanitarianism only leads to the ridiculous and to impotence. I am certain that all the units will understand and react accordingly. However, success does not depend solely on us. We need to have the Casbah at our disposal. We must sift through it ... and interrogate everyone. And here is where we find ourselves hindered by a conspiracy of laws and regulations that continue to be operative, as if Algiers were a holiday resort and not a battleground. We have requested a carte blanche. But it is very difficult to obtain. Therefore, it is necessary to find an excuse to legitimize our intervention, and make it possible. It is necessary to create it ourselves -- this excuse. Unless our adversaries will think of it themselves, which seems to be what they are doing. 
74	ALLEY UPPER CASBAH. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
It is not a song, but a type of spoken chorus, an assembly of young voices, words whispered from the throat, both high and low, and sudden silent pauses. It is monotonous; but it is just such a repetition, always with the same pattern of tones -- high, low, then, silent -- that manages to transform itself into a motif, reach an excited pitch, and acquire breadth and solemnity. The sound fills the alleys, rises toward the long rectangle of sky, and moves farther away as if it were meant to be heard by all. 
The alley is narrow and sloping, with crumbling walls, tufts of grass, and refuse. It is located at the outer periphery of the Casbah -- the countryside is in the background. An Algerian is walking with large steps; a five-year-old child is behind him, moving quickly, stumbling from time to time on the pavement; although he does not cry, occasionally he calls to his father, who proceeds forward, and does not turn around. The chorus arises from behind them. It is incoherent. They stop in front of a door; they have arrived. The door gives way and they enter. 
75	KORAN SCHOOL. INSIDE. DAY. 
A large room, like a shop or stable. Here too, on the ground and pavement, there are tufts of grass. It is cold. The walls are unplastered, the windows boarded. The roof is in sight, but not the beams. The roof is made of tiles and covered with a coat of whitewash. 
There are about twenty children, five to eight years old, seated on the floor. The teacher is in front of them; he too is seated. He is prompting the verses in a low voice, almost in a whisper, and the chorus repeats it. 
The Koran School: a bare, wobbling place. 
The Algerian who has entered takes the child by his hand, and accompanies him to the teacher who is now standing; the chorus continues; the other children, do not look at the two who have just entered. 
The Algerian and the teacher greet each other, bringing their hands to their hearts, and then to their mouths. At the same time, the teacher takes an envelope from under his tunic, and hands it over to the other. 
SPEAKER "To all militants! After two years of hard struggle in the mountains and city, the Algerian people have obtained a great victory. The UN Assembly has placed the Algerian question in its forthcoming agenda. The discussion will begin on Monday, January 28. Starting Monday, for a duration of eight days, the NLF is calling a general strike.  For the duration of this period, all forms of armed action or attempts at such are suspended. We are requesting that all militants mobilize for the strike's organization and success." 
The Algerian has hidden the envelope inside his tunic, then presents the child to the teacher, who makes him sit down with the other children The teacher also returns to his place and sits down, and suggests a new phrase; the chorus continues. The Algerian leaves the school. 
76	ALLEY UPPER CASBAH. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
Having passed through the door, he again moves along the alley, this time descending, with hurried steps. The chorus continues, again heard from without, but its echo is now different. 
77	VARIOUS VIEWS CASBAH. OUTSIDE/INSIDE. DAY. 
Bars, stores, market stalls, "Arab baths." Typewritten pieces of paper are used to wrap purchases, or slipped inside bags, or used on the blank side to add up bills and then handed to the customers. 
78	VARIOUS VIEWS EUROPEAN CITY. OUTSIDE/INSIDE. DAY. 
In the European city the Algerian workers: at the docks, the central gas company; on the trams; the waiters in the restaurants, in the bars; the shoeshine men 
SPEAKER "Algerian brothers! A great hope has arisen for us. The world is watching us. The next few days may be decisive for our future and our freedom. The colonial powers will attempt to demonstrate to the UN that the NFL does not represent the will of our people. Our response will be unanimous support of the general strike." 
79	SEA-FRONT. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
At the sea-front, there is a newspaper boy, about twelve years old, barefoot. His voice is shrill yet cheerful. He is smiling. 
NEWSBOY Le Monde! Le Monde! General strike! ... Strike! 
Some Europeans buy the newspaper, half-heartedly, grumbling disagreeably. The boy remains cheerful, places the change inside the bag strapped to his shoulder, thanks them. 
Now he passes in front of a beggar, an elderly Algerian who is leaning against a railing. 
The boy winks at him, while he continues to shout: 
NEWSBOY Strike! 
SPEAKER "During the eight days of the strike, do not frequent the European city, or leave the Casbah. Provide lodgings in your homes for the poor, the beggars, the brothers who do not have homes. Store provisions of food and water for eight days!" 
80	CASBAH STREETS AND SHOPS. INSIDE/OUTSIDE. DAY. 
There is a strange atmosphere in the Casbah. People are greeting each other in the streets; a thick buzz of voices, a festive mood, a sense of brotherhood, and the children, who are taking advantage of the situation and play and run everywhere. 
The shops are unusually crowded. The people enter and exit, loaded with supplies. In the shops too, there is the same festive mood, almost as if the supplies were for a trip to the country. The shopkeepers are also cheerful. 
And the poor customers, instead of paying, hand over a ticket stamped NLF. 
81	CASBAH BLOCKADE. OUTSIDE. DAY. SUNSET. SUNDAY. JANUARY 27, 1957. 
Late afternoon, at the blockades of rue de la Lyre, rue du Divan, and rue Marengo. The Casbah exit ramps are deserted, while the entrance ramps are overflowing with people. Here too, there is an intangible air of gaiety, witty remarks, laughter, ironic glances toward the soldiers and policemen with cold faces, immobile -- helmets and machine guns -- who stand at the entrances without intervening. 
The image is shortened and focused through the lenses of binoculars. 
82	GOVERNMENT PALACE. OUTSIDE/INSIDE. SUNSET. 
A paratrooper officer looks at the blockades of rue du Divan from a Government Palace balcony. Mathieu is beside him. 
The helicopters fly low again, they skirt the terraces. 
The Algerians are fleeing in terror, the uproar begins to fade away, is less intense; microphones are turned on, and off. The terraces are emptied, men seized, beaten, dragged; all the men are forced outside in the alleys, the streets, the squares, every man is forced to face the wall, his hands up. 
91	SHOPS. DOORS UNHINGED. OUTSIDE. MORNING. 
A truck in reverse, a rope fastened to the hub of the wheels, its other end to a door-latch. The motor is accelerated, clouds of exhaust fumes ... 
Door latches pried open like lids of sardine cans, shop windows smashed with machine-gun butts, the counters, the shelves, flung into the air, the merchandise thrown into the streets; a game, a frenzied excitement ... 
The Algerians watch, but can not intervene. Some shopkeepers rush to the scene, crying despairingly, while others are dragged away forcibly, tossed about, slapped, pushed, forced to open their shops. 
92	CANDY SHOP. INSIDE. MORNING. 
A shopkeeper is pushed behind the counter; he gets up, trembling with fear. 
A para asks him for a bag of candy, pays politely, smiles, pats his bald head, and asks him sweetly: 
PARA And the strike, my friend? 
Then he distributes the candy among the children who are outside. 
93	CANDY SHOP. OUTSIDE. MORNING. 
The children take the candy silently, without thanking him, then eat the candies slowly, their faces unfriendly and cold ... 
94	PLACE DU GOUVERNEMENT. OUTSIDE. MORNING. 
The black sky, the trees, the advertising signs ... Cordon Rouge ... ... an equestrian statue, a car radio, a loudspeaker. 
LOUDSPEAKER "Attention, people of the Casbah! The NLF wants to stop you from working. The NLF forces you to close your shops. Inhabitants of the Casbah, rebel against their orders. France is your country. France has given you civilization and prosperity: schools, streets, hospitals. People of the Casbah, show your love for your mother country, by disobeying the terrorists' orders. Algerians, return to work!" 
And then Algerian music, a cheerful and rhythmical melody; the Algerians are forced out of the Casbah in columns, and are pushed toward the military trucks which clutter the southern side of the square, and continue to arrive and depart. 
95	CASBAH. EXIT. OUTSIDE. MORNING. 
Meanwhile the paras of the psychological divisions make their first selection, randomly, or else deliberately, basing them on the slightest suspicions. They evaluate each man by his appearance or behavior. They block the Algerians from the exit ramp, and assault them with a battery of questions: 
PARA'S VOICES Who are you? What's your name? Occupation? Where do you work? Why did you strike? They forced you, eh? ... No ... Tell the truth! You promised them, right? Then you're the one who wants to strike. Do you belong to the NLF? C'mon, answer me! Are you afraid to say it? Never mind, it doesn't matter. 
The Algerian does not answer, but stares into the para's eyes. The para turns to his companions and shouts: 
PARA Jacques! ... Jacques! ... Another one to headquarters! 
The Algerian is seized, and pushed toward the truck. 
LOUDSPEAKER "Attention, Algerians! The NLF wants to stop you from working. The NLF forces you to close your shops. The NLF wants to starve you and condemn you to misery. Algerians, return to work ... !" 
96	THE PORT. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
The port is deserted, the cranes still. A loaded ship sways lazily at her moorings, the fork-lifts are filled with supplies ... 
The limestone is dried out, the bridges empty, dangling cables swing slowly from the pulleys. There is silence in the docks ... 
Then, the sound of motors approaching, clouds of dust, Arabs pushed out of the trucks, into the shipyard. 
97	STREETS OF ALGIERS. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
In the streets of the European city, there is an atmosphere of fear and doubt. The shop windows have their shutters lowered halfway, the shopkeepers are standing in the doorways, ready to close. 
The front doors of houses are shut. There are a few hurried passersby but no automobiles; the trams are not running; on the sidewalks the garbage is piled high, nearby the long brooms of the Algerian street cleaners. 
PARAS (yelling) Sweep, mes enfants, sweep. 
An Algerian with a very refined expression, a gentle appearance, says, while excusing himself: 
ALGERIAN I don't know how, sir, I'm sorry ... 
They shove the broom into his hands, and shout to him: 
PARA Learn! 
LOUDSPEAKER "French citizens! Europeans of Algiers! The strike called by the NLF is a failure. Do not be afraid. Return to your jobs. General Massu guarantees your safety. The Army will protect you!" 
98	STREETS OF ALGIERS. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
A jeep with loudspeaker precedes a row of military trucks loaded with Algerians. 
In every truck there are two paras carrying machine guns by their sides. The Algerians are standing crowded together one against the other. Some of them are holding banners and signs: 
I AM GOING TO WORK BECAUSE I AM FREE. 
1ST JOURNALIST What's the problem then? 
MATHIEU Political support. Sometimes it's there, sometimes not ... sometimes, it's not enough. What were they saying in Paris yesterday? 
5TH JOURNALIST Nothing ... Sartre has written another article ... 
Mathieu gestures and makes an expression as if to say: "see what I mean?" At the same time, he opens the door. But before entering, he turns again to the journalists. 
MATHIEU Will you kindly explain to me why all the Sartres are always born on the other side? 
5TH JOURNALIST Then you like Sartre, colonel ... 
MATHIEU Not really, but he's even less appealing as an enemy. 
100	PLACE DU GOUVERNEMENT AND RUE DU DIVAN BLOCKADE. OUTSIDE. SUNSET. 
Place du Gouvernement, dusk, the other side of the blockade is silent, only the uncovered eyes of the Algerian women who await their men. 
The trucks continue to arrive: the men are forced to descend and allowed to enter the Casbah. There is an atmosphere of sadness, for not all the men have returned. The women look at them, scrutinize their faces, from the first to the last in one glance, then slowly ... one face at a time. Some women recognize their husbands, or their brothers or their sons, and run to meet them ... 
But others continue to ask for news in lowered, sorrowful voices. 
AD-LIB VOICES Have you seen Mohamed? Where? When? Why hasn't he returned? 
A steady hum of voices in Arabic; then the monotonous voice of a policeman who speaks in the microphone of the loudspeaker. 
LOUDSPEAKER "The NLF wants to stop you from working. The NLF forces you to close your shops, inhabitants of the Casbah, disobey their orders. France has given you civilization and prosperity: schools, streets, hospitals. People of the Casbah! Show your love for your mother country by disobeying the terrorists' orders." 
The loudspeaker is attached to one of the blockade posts, and from it a long wire for the microphone is hanging. The policeman has a raspy and bored voice; he stops speaking and leans the microphone on the table in front of him. He gets up, lights a cigarette, and moves away a few steps. 
Two children are among the women and behind the wooden horses barricades. They were waiting for this moment. 
They bend, seem to be playing, but one of them lifts the barbed wire as high as he can, from the ground. Petit Omar passes a wire underneath, its farthest end bent in the form of a hook. He moves it toward the microphone cord which is lying coiled on the ground. He succeeds in clasping it and pulls it toward him slowly. The cord unwinds, lengthens, stretches, until the microphone on the table begins to move, until it reaches the edge of the table, and falls ... 
The noise re-echoes in the loudspeaker, but no one pays any attention to it. 
Petit Omar waits a second, then begins to pull again. 
The microphone is dragged along the ground -- a humming sound -- it moves nearer, inch by inch, forward, under the barbed wire, until the children are able to take it, and disappear with it behind the women. 
LOUDSPEAKER "Algerians! Brothers! Do not be afraid! Algeria will be free. Be courageous, brothers! Resist! Do not listen to what they are telling you ... Algeria will be free ..." 
The voice is not violent, but gentle, somewhat breathless and hurried. It extends to the whole square, so that all can hear it well: the people stop what they are doing to listen. They are emotional, proud, or angry, and look toward the sky where the voice seems to be diffused, as if those words should be written up above. 
The officer is slow to realize what has happened, looks at the loudspeaker, the cord, and now grabs it, cursing. He pulls and tugs it; the wire yields, and he wrenches it from the microphone. 
LOUDSPEAKER "Brothers--" 
The voice is no longer heard, nothing more, silence. 
Silence, only that something is changed in the women's eyes. The veils that cover the lower half of their faces suddenly begin to tremble, sway as if shaken by a breath, a light wind. There is no longer an atmosphere of sadness, or silence. 
JU-JU. 
The ju-jus attack the air, invade it, shake it, make it vibrate as if they were electric charges, or the sound produced by the wind on a field of dry reeds, or the sound produced by a hundred, a thousand fingernails that are scratching a window pane ... 
101	HEADQUARTERS. PARA. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
PARA One, two, three, four ... Inside! C'mon! 
The five Algerians indicated are forced to get up, taken, pushed, and brought inside a large deserted house which is the paras' headquarters. 
The other Algerians, about a hundred of them, are sitting on the ground, in the clearing in front of the house, and the paras of the first regiment continue to guard them with pointed machine guns ... 
Suddenly from the villa, the music of a French song comes forth at full blast. 
The Algerians look at each other nervously. Even a young para seems to be upset. 
1ST PARA (turning to other para) What are they doing? 
2ND PARA (smiling) Dancing inside ... 
102	HEADQUARTERS. VILLA. INSIDE. DAY. 
A para rushes through a corridor carrying a tape recorder, enters a room where there are some sergeants and an Algerian. 
The adjoining room with white tiled walls and a sink is visible through an open door. Two paras are sitting on the floor, smoking and chatting between themselves in whispers. 
The para places the tape recorder on the table. The Algerian is naked to the waist. Signs of torture are visible. His face is swollen and wet. The sergeant places the chair near him, and helps him to sit down, then starts the tape recorder. He says to the Algerian who is trembling: 
SERGEANT Go ahead! C'mon ... Repeat everything from the beginning, and then we'll let you go. Name ... 
MATHIEU We must cling to it, and work fast! 
Then he turns to the officers and smiling, says in another tone of voice: 
MATHIEU Have any of you ever had a tapeworm? 
The officers say "no" and laugh. 
MATHIEU The tapeworm is a worm that can grow to infinity. There are thousands of segments. You can destroy all of them; but as long as the head remains, it reproduces itself immediately. It is the same thing with the NLF. The head is the General Staff, four persons. Until we are able to eliminate them, we must always start again from the beginning. 
While he is speaking, Mathieu takes his wallet from his back pocket, opens it, takes out four photos. 
MATHIEU I found these in the police archives. They are old shots, but I made some close-ups. Ramel ... Si Mourad ... Kader ... Ali la Pointe. We must print a thousand copies and distribute them to the men. 
Meanwhile, the photos are passed around. 
There are photos taken from identification cards, or blown up from some group shots, figures somewhat blurred, faded, smiling, peaceful ... 
108	NLF LEADERS' HIDING PLACE. INSIDE. DAY. 
In the dim light, the four faces are barely illuminated. The shadows tone down their expressions: Kader, Ali la Pointe, Ramel, Si Mourad. They are crowded into the hiding place, sitting on the floor, motionless, their eyes staring straight ahead, their breathing heavy. From outside, noises, voices that are fading in the distance. Silence. 
Then, a discreet knock, a remark in Arabic. 
The four breathe deeply, look at each other, then smile a little. 
Ali unslips the beam which, placed through an iron ring, is holding shut the door of the hiding place. Using the soles of his feet, he pushes against the square of wall: the light enters violently. It is not electric light, but daylight. 
Kader blinks his eyes to accustom them to the light, then goes out on all fours; after him, Ramel, and then the others. They leave the hiding place that Ali built in the wash-house on the terrace. 
109	COMPLEX OF KADER'S HOUSE. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
All of them have machine guns. Ramel is very tall and robust, about thirty years old. 
Si Mourad is slightly older than Ramel. His movements are slow and precise; his glance expresses patience and authority. Djamila is waiting for them. 
DJAMILA You can come out. Thank God. There were so many this time, about ten. 
Ali recloses the hiding place. 
KADER Paratroopers? 
DJAMILA Yes. 
KADER What do you think? Did they come here on purpose or by accident? 
DJAMILA No. By accident. They asked some questions, but they didn't touch anyone. 
Ali has come out of the wash-house. The sun is high, and helicopters are seen passing one another in the sky. On some faraway terraces, bivouacs of paras are visible. They are guarding the Casbah from above. The rumble of motors and the voice of the loudspeaker are heard more clearly as they near the house. 
LOUDSPEAKER "Attention! Attention! Inhabitants of the Casbah! The terrorist Ben Amin has been executed this morning. Qrara Normendine has been arrested. Boussalem Ali has been arrested. Bel Kasel Maussa has been arrested. Inhabitants of the Casbah! The NFL has been defeated. Rebel against the remaining terrorists who want to force you to continue a bloody and futile struggle. People of the Casbah, the terrorist Ben Amin has been executed. Help us to build a free and peaceful Algeria. Inhabitants of the Casbah, the NLF has been defeated. Rebel against the remaining terrorists who want to force you to continue a bloody and futile struggle. Attention! Attention! Inhabitants of the Casbah! The terrorist Ben Amin has been executed this morning. Qrara Normendine has been arrested. Boussalem Ali has been arrested. Bel Kasem Moussa has been arrested. Inhabitants of the Casbah -- the NLF has been defeated ..." 
The voice fades away and is no longer heard. At the same time, a woman has come up from the floor below, carrying a tray of cups and a teapot. 
Ali looks at her quickly, but then watching her more closely, he sees that she is crying. When she passes near him, he stops her, places his hand kindly on her shoulder, and asks her in Arabic why she is crying. 
DIALOGUE IN ARABIC BETWEEN ALI AND WOMAN. 
The woman shakes her head, tries to smile, but says nothing. Then she enters the wash-house silently and begins to serve the tea. 
KADER It's better to split up, to increase our chances. We must change hiding places, and change them continually ... In the meantime, we must make new contacts, replace our arrested brothers, reorganize our sections-- 
ALI (interrupting him) Yes, but we must also show them that we still exist. 
KADER Of course. As soon as possible. 
ALI No, immediately. The people are demoralized. Leave this to me ... 
KADER No. Not you, or any one of us. As long as we are free, the NLF continues to exist in the Casbah. If they manage to take us too, there won't be anything left ... And from nothing comes nothing ... 
RAMEL (intervening) But it's also necessary to do something ... 
KADER And we will do something, don't worry. As soon as we have reestablished contacts ... 
MOURAD And our movements? 
KADER For this too we've got to change methods. 
110	MUNICIPAL STADIUM. OUTSIDE. DAY. FEBRUARY 10, 1957. 
The municipal stadium is crowded with people. There is a football game between two European teams. It is almost the end of the first half. From above to the right of the guest box, there is a very loud explosion. 
Faucets, tubing, buckets, funnels, a mouth forced open, held open, with a wooden wedge, tubing in the mouth, rags scattered around, water, a belly that is swelling . .. The torture is precise in every detail, and every detail points to a technique that is taken apart and reassembled. 
114	UPPER CASBAH ALLEY. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
The chorus of the Koran school like ceaseless wailing, like a stubborn will to survive that seems to be spreading through the Casbah. 
Petit Omar looks up instinctively, his small face hardened and taciturn, like that of an adult, then enters the school. 
115	KORAN SCHOOL. INSIDE. DAY. 
The children are sitting on the mats, motionless; only their lips are moving. There is an oblique light, the teacher is in the shadow. 
RELIGIOUS CHORUS. 
Petit Omar approaches the teacher who shakes his head in denial. Omar goes out. 
116	CASBAH STREETS. PATROLS. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
The Casbah is patrolled by paratroopers; helmets, machine guns, portable radios, police dogs ... 
Paratroopers are erecting loudspeakers at every street corner. Paratroopers with brushes and buckets of paint are marking the doors of the Casbah with large numbers. From time to time, machine-gun fire is heard in the distance. 
Algerians are standing against the wall, their hands up. There is a dead man a few feet away, an Algerian youth. The paratroopers turn him over and search him. A child with terrified eyes turns around a little. 
A para transmits the dead man's name into the portable radio. 
117	CASBAH. OTHER STREETS. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
A car radio receives and transmits the same name; and then the name is repeated by the loudspeakers scattered throughout the Casbah. 
LOUDSPEAKER "Inhabitants of the Casbah! The rebellion gets weaker every day. The terrorist Ben Amin has been executed. Kasem Moussa has been arrested. He was commander of the 2nd Sector NLF. Inhabitants of the Casbah! The terrorists are not your true brothers. Leave them to their fate. Rely on the protection of the French army. Denounce the terrorists and agitators. Cooperate with us to reestablish peace and prosperity in Algeria ..." 
118	FOUR WOMEN. STREET. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
Four women, their faces veiled, meet a patrol of paras in a small street. 
Two of the paras stop the last woman, and lift her dress, uncovering her feet and ankles -- those of a man. The tear away her veil. 
The man is Ali. At the same time, there is ... 
MACHINE-GUN FIRE. 
The two paras fall to the ground. Ali grasps his weapon, visible through the opening of his cloak. The other paras fling themselves to the ground. 
The other three women flee, while Ali continues to shoot, then runs away. 
The four flee through the narrow streets and alleys, climb a stairway, and leap from one terrace to another. Behind them, shouts, whistles, and machine-gun fire are heard. And moving nearer ... 
BARKING OF DOGS. 
119 	COURTYARD WITH WELL. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
The four enter a courtyard. Ali's three companions have also lifted their veils. They are Kader, Mourad, and Ramel. 
A woman rushes to shut the door while a man leads the four toward an opening hidden by some boxes. 
The others who are in the courtyard, women and children, are also busy helping, silently, hurriedly, in a tense atmosphere of solidarity with the four fugitives. 
Very near are heard ... 
BARKING OF DOGS AND PARAS' HURRIED FOOTSTEPS. 
A woman runs toward the door and throws some large handfuls of pepper under the cracks. 
120 	STREET COURTYARD WITH WELL. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
The group of pursuers -- paras who are holding police dogs by leashes -- slow down in front of the door. 
BARKING DOGS. 
The animals sniff the ground, then move on together with the paras. 
121	ARAB BATH. INSIDE. DAY. 
Petit Omar enters the large steamy room. He moves near the manager and hands him an envelope. The manager slips it quickly under the counter. 
SPEAKER "To all NLF militants! Reorganize! Replace your fallen and arrested brothers. Make new contacts! This is a grave moment. Resist brothers! The General Staff leaves you free to take any and all necessary offensives ... 
122 	CASBAH HOUSE. INSIDE. DAY. 
All the inhabitants of a house. The men are in a row on the balcony of the first floor, their hands crossed behind their heads, their backs to the wall, while paras guard them with pointed machine guns. 
KADER That proves that I was wrong. Evidently I credited you with an advantage greater than I should have. 
MATHIEU No. Let's just say that you've given me the satisfaction to have guessed correctly. But from the technical point of view, it isn't possible to speak of advantages. By now the game is over. The NLF has been defeated. 
Zohra has turned around suddenly. She is crying and speaks hastily in Arabic, violently, harshly. 
Mathieu doesn't understand, and turns to Kader to ask him politely, although with a bit of irony: 
MATHIEU What is she saying? 
KADER She says that Ali is still in the Casbah. 
131	CROWDED BEACH. OUTSIDE. DAY. 
Ali la Pointe's glance is sullen, heavy, motionless. He moves his head slowly in such a way so that his glance also moves in a semicircle. 
White beach, fine sand, transparent sea, bodies stretched out in the sun, golden skin of girls; girls in bikinis, sensual, smiling, young men with narrow hips, with muscles well cared for, cheerful youth, naturally happy, enviable. The children are building sand castles near the water's edge; the beach is shaped like a half-moon with rocky reefs at both ends ... 
A September Sunday, warm and calm. Ali is leaning on the wall. He is wearing a white wool cloak. Only his eyes are visible ... the eyes of a hungry tiger perched above a path, on the lookout for innocent prey. Eyes that now gleam, cruel eyes, tension dilating the pupils ... Then again the calm, a gloomy calm, a gratifying tension. The place is right, and the victims couldn't be better ones. 
Ali moves, leaves the wall, crosses the street to a large city sanitation truck, one of those metallic trucks with no visible openings. 
A young Algerian is at the steering wheel, a street cleaner. He is leaning his thin face on the wheel. His hands are dirty, by now unwashable from years of work. 
Ali has climbed into the cab. The truck is in motion and leaves. 
132	SANITATION TRUCK. INSIDE. DAY. 
The name of the street cleaner is Sadek. He seems frightened. He looks around, hesitates before speaking. 
SADEK Then the beach is okay, Ali. 
Silence. Sadek looks at him again, waiting, but Ali does not respond. 
Ali looks straight ahead at the street bathed in sunlight, the tar that seems to be liquid, the villas that surround Algiers, the lemon trees, the oleanders ... Then he speaks, but without turning to Sadek. He speaks in a whisper, his eyes continually staring straight ahead. 
ALI We need two more, the biggest ones. 
SADEK And the others? 
ALI The others ... let's wait and see. 
Sadek remains silent for a while. 
SADEK I've looked, Ali, even where I work. Nothing. The ones who have not been arrested have left Algiers and gone into the mountains ... And the others don't want to hear any more about it ... they're afraid ... 
Ali doesn't answer him. Silence. 
ALI Can't you go any faster? 
SADEK Yes, sure ... here. 
Sadek puts the truck in third gear, accelerates the motor, then shifts back again into fourth gear. The truck increases its speed. The road is straight, the outskirts of Algiers are visible. 
SADEK If we don't find any others ... should we call it off? 
Ali turns suddenly to look at him but says nothing. Sadek can feel those eyes on him, and tries to justify himself. 
SADEK We can't plant all of them by ourselves ... 
Ali speaks to him in a dry and indifferent voice. 
ALI You don't have to plant anything. You only have to carry them, that's all. 
133	RUE DES ABDERAMES. ALI'S HOUSE. OUTSIDE/INSIDE. NIGHT. 
Night. At number three rue des Abderames, on the first-floor balcony, the stove fires are glowing. The women are cooking outside on their stoves built from tin containers. They are cooking in front of the doors of their homes. The doorways are lit up. 
Ali passes along the balcony, passes by Mahmoud and his wife who are speaking in whispers by themselves and leaning on the railing. It is a warm and starry night. Mahmoud says some more words to his wife, still speaking in whispers, tenderly. Then he follows Ali who has stopped in front of the door. 
134	ALI'S ROOM. INSIDE. NIGHT. 
In the room, there is Petit Omar who is cutting out some pictures from a comic book. 
As soon as he sees Ali at the door, he stops, closes his book, puts the scissors in his pocket. He seems to be embarrassed at being caught in his childish game. 
In the center of the room, there is a dividing curtain, pulled halfway to the side. On the other side, Hassiba is typing. Behind Hassiba, next to the bed, the hiding place is open. Ali enters. He seems tired, sweating. He removes his cloak, tosses it on the chair, and puts his machine gun on the table. 
ALI (turning to Petit Omar) C'mon, hurry. Go to sleep. Tomorrow we four have a lot of work to do: Mahmoud, Hassiba, you and I. 
Mahmoud has remained motionless at the door. Hassiba has stopped typing and approaches them. Omar says nothing, but there is a satisfied look in his eyes. He can't help stretching out his hand to touch the machine gun. 
It is the same breathing that soon after Mathieu hears, bent in the same position as the captain. The colonel gets up and looks around him. 
Four paras are ready with their machine guns aimed at the hiding place. Others are arranging plastic charges along the wall, all of them connected to a single fuse. 
In a corner, Sadek, wearing his cap and army camouflage fatigues, is sitting on a chair. 
He is watching the scene with his eyes wide open. He is trembling. His body is slouched forward. He seems to be lifeless, without nerves. If it weren't for his face, he would seem to be a heap of rags. 
MATHIEU (to the captain) Everything ready? 
CAPTAIN Yes, sir. 
MATHIEU He hasn't answered? 
CAPTAIN No, sir. Total silence. 
MATHIEU I thought so. It was obvious. 
Mathieu bends down again and leans his ear against the bricks. He gets up again. He remains a minute in this position, lost in thought. 
MATHIEU (loudly and markedly) Ali ... Ali la Pointe ... You're going to be blown up. Let the others come out, at least the child. We'll let him off with reformatory school ... Why do you want to make him die? 
Mathieu stops, and shakes his head. He turns to the captain: 
MATHIEU Let's go ... 
A paratrooper is unrolling a large bundle of fuse. 
CAPTAIN Bring it down there, till it reaches outside ... 
PARA Yes, sir ... 
Mathieu has stopped in front of Sadek. He looks at him. 
MATHIEU Is this one still here? ... Take him away. 
Two paratroopers grab the street cleaner by the armpits and almost lifting him completely, they lead him away. Mathieu is about to go out, then turns and takes the megaphone from the captain's hands, and places it to his mouth. 
MATHIEU Ali! Ali la Pointe! I am giving you another thirty seconds. What do you hope to gain? You've lost anyway. Thirty seconds, Ali, starting now. 
138	ALI'S HIDING PLACE. INSIDE. DAWN. 
Ali la Pointe's eyes are staring at the square piece of wall that seals the hiding place. His glance is taciturn, gloomy. The others are watching Ali. Their lips are half-open, their breasts rise and fall in laborious breathing. 
ALI (in deep, resigned voice) Who wants to leave? 
Petit Omar presses against Ali's arm; he looks like a son with his father. 
Mahmoud takes his head in his hands and squeezes it. 
HASSIBA What are you going to do? 
ALI I don't deal with them. 
139	ALI'S ROOM. INSIDE. DAWN. 
Mathieu checks his watch; thirty seconds have passed. He moves to go out. The four paras with machine guns are still in the room. 
CAPTAIN (to another paratrooper) You stay here by the door to signal the others. When I call you, all of you come down ... 
140	RUE DES ABDERAMES. OUTSIDE. MORNING. 
The sun has risen to the height of the terraces. 
The terraces are swarming with people. 
The alley is empty and only the fuse is visible; it reaches to a small clearing full of paratroopers. Two more colonels and a general have arrived. 
There is a paratrooper with an "Arriflex" ready to film the explosion. 
The atmosphere is that of a show. Two paratroopers are connecting the ends of the fuse to the electric contact. 
On the terraces, there are Algerian women, children, and old people. 
Their eyes are motionless; someone is praying. There is an atmosphere of suspense. 
There is also the wife of Mahmoud; her eyes seem blank. 
Five paras come out of the house quickly, and pass along the alley toward the clearing. 
The captain signals, and the para begins to lower the contact switch slowly. 
