Being There - December 16, 1978 Draft 
FADE IN: 
EXT. TOWNHOUSE GARDEN - WASHINGTON, D.C. - AFTERNOON 
An afternoon in late November, the leaves have left the trees, and the early darkness of a winter dusk approaches. The garden is long and narrow, guarded on either side by a high brick wall. At one end stands the rear of a three-story brick townhouse; at the other, a one story brick building. CLASSICAL MUSIC is heard in the distance. A MAN, handsomely dressed in a well-tailored suit of the 1920's, works in the garden. A gardener's apron protects his suit from the earth as he turns the loam along one of the walkways. He works slowly,-precisely, obviously engrossed in his surroundings. This man is called CHANCE. 
Chance stops working for a moment, takes a pocket watch from inside his coat, checks the time. He looks to the darkening skies, returns the watch to his pocket. As Chance starts toward the one story brick building, he takes a spotless rag from his apron pocket and wipes the dirt from the tines of his pitchfork. 
INT. GARAGE - AFTERNOON 
The sound of the music increases as Chance enters the garage from the garden. A gleaming 1921 TOURING CAR is revealed as he walks through the garage and leans the pitchfork against a wall. Chance takes a neatly folded cover from a shelf, carefully puts it over the car. When he finishes covering the car for the night, Chance picks up the pitchfork, leaves the garage through a side entry. 
INT. POTTING ROOM - AFTERNOON 
The Potting Room is filled with the tools of the gardener, everything arranged in an orderly fashion. Rows of small pots are on tables, young plants sprouting from some of them. A small, 1940's table model black-and-white TV rests on a shelf. It is playing, tuned to the BOSTON POPS ORCHESTRA. Attached to the front of the screen is a wheel containing colored gels. The wheels spins, creates an early form of color TV. As Chance enters, his attention is on the television set. He watches it as he oils the tines of the pitchfork and puts it away. Chance turns off the TV and leaves the room, but the sound of the Boston Pops continues. 
INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON 
A room adjacent to the Potting Room. A large screen remote control color television set dominates the room. It is on, tuned to the Boston Pops. In contrast to the new TV, the rest of the room is sparsely but tastefully decorated with expensive furniture of the twenties. There are no books, magazines, newspapers or reading matter of any kind to be seen. Chance comes in, watches the TV with a detached gaze as he removes his apron. He changes the channel with the remote control as he puts his apron and the pitchfork rag into a laundry bag. He takes off his suit jacket, hangs it in the closet where it is accompanied by several others, all of like quality. Chance changes the channel once again. 
EXT. GARDEN - NIGHT 
Chance, wearing a different suit and carrying the laundry bag, crosses from the rear building to the main house. 
INT. MAIN HOUSE - REAR ENTRANCE/HALLWAY - NIGHT 
The interior of the main house has the mustiness of age, the warmth of oak. White dropcloths and sheets cover all of the furniture. Chance enters, walks through the hallway. 
INT. MAIN HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
A large dropcloth is over the dining room table and chairs. It is neatly folded back at one end, leaving one chair and place setting uncovered. A small portable color TV is next to the place setting. 
Chance enters, puts his laundry bag on a covered table near the doorway. He sits at the dining room table, turns on the TV, and carefully unfolds his napkin, puts it on his lap as he watches the screen. LOUISE, an elderly black maid, enters with a tray of food and Chance's clean laundry. 
LOUISE (sets dinner before Chance) ... Evening, Chance. 
CHANCE (slowly, perfect diction, no accent of any kind) ... Good evening, Louise. 
Louise sets Chance's clean clothes on the small table, picks up his laundry bag. 
LOUISE ... The Old Man is getting weaker, Chance. 
CHANCE (begins to eat) I see. 
LOUISE I'm afraid he's slippin' a bit with every hour that goes by... 
Chance, his manners impeccable, concentrates on the TV as he eats. A buzzer SOUNDS, Louise looks upstairs. 
LOUISE (CONT'D) ... Back up those stairs - damn... That Man's needin' me more and more just before he never needs me again... 
CHANCE (still watches TV) Is his back feeling better? 
Louise gives Chance a look. 
LOUISE ... Gobbledegook... You and your gobbledegook. You're gonna be the death of me yet, Chance... (she turns to leave) ... Unless those stairs are... The Good Lord's liable to snatch up two unwillin' souls at the same time if I keep on trampin' up those stairs... I don't want none of that... 
Louise disappears through the doorway. Chance continues to eat and watch TV. 
INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - DAWN 
Chance is asleep, lying on his back. His eyes slowly open, and, with no change of expression, he sits up and turns on the TV with the remote control. Chance gets out of bed, goes to the dresser and takes his pocket watch out of a drawer, checks the time. He crosses to the closet, his eyes never straying from an early morning show on television. He puts on a bathrobe and leaves the room. 
INT. POTTING ROOM - DAWN 
Chance enters, turns on the TV with the spinning color wheel, then waters a few of the pots with a sprinkling can. He turns off the TV and exits. 
INT. GARAGE - DAWN 
Chance comes into the garage, takes the cover off of the touring car, folds it and puts it on a shelf. He leaves the garage. 
INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - DAWN 
Chance returns to his room, changes channels on the television, takes off his robe and hangs it back up in the closet, then goes into the bathroom. 
EXT. GARDEN - MORNING 
Louise enters the hallway, picks up a couple of suit cases waiting by the door. She stops as she sees TWO MEN in white carrying a stretcher down the main staircase. She notices the ease with which they bring the Old Man's body down the stairs. 
LOUISE ... He used to be a big man... 'Spose he wasted away to about nothin'... (a beat - then she talks to the body of the old Man) ... I guess I'll be goin' off to find me some folks, Old Man... I'm not batty enough to stay around this neighborhood any longer... 
The stretcher bearers move to the front door. Louise steps in front of them. 
LOUISE (CONT'D) (to stretcher bearers) Wait up! I'm goin' out that door first. 
Louise takes one more look at the covered body, then opens the front door, leaves. 
INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - DAY 
The TV plays offstage as Chance washes up in the bathroom. He finishes, comes into the bedroom, takes a pair of house slippers from his closet, turns off the television and leaves the room. 
EXT. GARDEN - DAY 
Chance, carrying his slippers, crosses through the layer of fresh snow to the townhouse. 
INT. DINING ROOM - DAY 
Chance, wearing the slippers, enters and sits at his place. He turns on the TV, puts the napkin on his lap. He watches TV for a moment, then turns, looks for Louise. She does not appear so he resumes watching TV. He changes channels, views a wildly exciting FOOTBALL game. At a peak in the excitement, he again switches channels. Chance watches TV News coverage of the PRESIDENT of the United States greeting foreign dignitaries at the White House. CLOSE SHOTS on television reveal that the President uses a two-handed handshake when meeting his guests. Unconsciously, Chance grips one hand with the other, the scene on TV seeming to have 'sunk into' his mind. 
INT. TOWNHOUSE - FRONT HALLWAY - DAY 
A key is heard in the lock. The door opens and THOMAS FRANKLIN and SALLY HAYES enter. Franklin, an attorney, is in his late thirties, carries a large briefcase. Hayes is younger, attractive, also an attorney. She totes a briefcase, has the look of a modern, liberated woman. Hayes appears to be surprised at the interior of the house. 
HAYES (looks around) ... This is another world, Tom - I never would have believed it... 
FRANKLIN Yeah... He and my father used to ride together back in the thirties... Fox hunting... Before I was born... 
HAYES ... Would you take me on a tour? 
FRANKLIN Gladly... (he smiles) ... The safe is in Mr. Jennings' bedroom, that'll be stop number one. 
Franklin puts a hand on Hayes' shoulder as they,go off down the hall. 
INT. DINING ROOM - DAY 
Chance still watches TV, waits for Louise to serve him. Franklin and Hayes appear in the doorway of the dining room. They are both surprised to see Chance. 
FRANKLIN ... Why... Hello, we thought we heard something... (moves to Chance, hand outstretched) I'm Thomas Franklin. 
Chance remains seated, takes Franklin's hand warmly in both of his like the President did on TV. 
CHANCE Hello, Thomas... I'm Chance, the gardener. 
FRANKLIN (a beat) ... The gardener? (thinks it's a joke, laughs) ... Yes, of course... Mr. Chance, this is Ms. Hayes. 
Hayes moves to shake Chance's hand. 
HAYES Mr. Chance, I'm very pleased to meet you. 
CHANCE (doesn't rise, again shakes with both hands) Yes. 
Chance turns back to the TV and Hayes and Franklin exchange looks. 
FRANKLIN (after an uneasy pause) ... We're with Franklin, Jennings and Roberts, the law firm handling the estate. 
CHANCE (a smile, totally at ease) Yes, Thomas - I understand. 
Another period of silence. Franklin and Hayes seem perplexed. 
FRANKLIN ... Are you waiting for someone? An appointment? 
CHANCE Yes. I'm waiting for my lunch. 
FRANKLIN Your lunch? You have a luncheon appointment here? 
CHANCE Yes. Louise will bring me lunch. 
FRANKLIN Louise?... The maid?... (a look to Hayes) But she should have left earlier today... 
CHANCE (smiles at Hayes) I see... 
FRANKLIN (a beat) ... You've quite a sense of humor, Mr. Chance - but all kidding aside, may I ask just what you are doing here? 
CHANCE I live here. 
CHANCE No, Thomas. But I have seen the Army on television. 
HAYES How about taxes, Mr. Chance, surely you must have paid taxes? 
CHANCE No. 
Chance picks up his slippers and leads the attorneys outside. 
EXT. GARDEN - AFTERNOON 
Chance describes his garden with pride as they walk toward the rear building. 
CHANCE (points) Those trees were very young when I first arrived. 
FRANKLIN Are you related to the deceased, Mr. Chance? 
CHANCE No, I don't think so. And I have planted and shaped all the hedges, and in the springtime you will be able to see my flowers. 
HAYES Might you have a birth certificate, Mr. Chance? 
CHANCE No. (points to wall) That's where Joe fixed the bricks. 
They arrive at the rear building and Chance opens the door to the garage. Franklin and Hayes follow him inside. 
INT. GARAGE - AFTERNOON 
Franklin and Hayes are taken aback by the touring car. 
FRANKLIN (admires car) ... Do you drive this, Mr. Chance? 
CHANCE No, Thomas. I have never been in an automobile. 
HAYES (amazed) You never been in a car? 
Chance is silent for a moment, he blushes slightly. 
CHANCE ... Well... From time to time I did sit in it... Just in here... It hasn't been outside since the Old Man hurt himself. (he turns) I live in here. 
Chance moves toward his room, Franklin and Hayes follow. 
INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON 
Chance sits on the bed to remove his boots as Hayes and Franklin inspect the room. 
CHANCE The Old Man gave me nice television sets, this one has remote control. (he turns it on with the remote) He has one just like it. 
FRANKLIN Mr. Chance, the fact remains that we have no information of your having any connection with the deceased. 
CHANCE Yes, I understand. 
Chance puts on his slippers, crosses to the closet, opens the door. It is filled with men's wear. 
CHANCE I am allowed to go to the attic and select any of the Old Man's suits. They all fit me very well. I can also take his shirts, shoes and coats. 
HAYES It is quite amazing how those clothes have come back into style. 
CHANCE Yes. I have seen styles on television. 
FRANKLIN (getting back to business) What are your plans now, Mr. Chance? 
CHANCE I would like to stay and work in my garden. 
Chance turns to watch TV. Franklin takes Hayes to a side of the room. 
FRANKLIN (quietly) ... What do you make of all this? 
HAYES I really don't know, Tom - he seems so honest and simple... In a way, he's quite charming... 
FRANKLIN (looks at Chance) ... Yeah... 
HAYES ... It's very bizarre - I don't know what to think... 
FRANKLIN Well... He's either very, very bright or very, very dense - he's hard to figure... (he unzips briefcase) ... Let's just keep everything legal. 
Franklin takes out some papers, approaches Chance. 
FRANKLIN Mr. Chance, assuming what you say is the truth, I would like to know what sort of claim you are planning to make against the deceased's estate. 
CHANCE Yes. I understand. (he takes out his remote control TV changer) If I see Raphael I will tell him. 
Chance points the changer at Abbaz and clicks it three times, tries to change the picture. Abbaz immediately pulls out a switchblade, whips the blade open. 
ABBAZ (holds knife at Chance) Now, move, honkie! Before I cut your white ass! 
Chance, disappointed that the changer did not work, returns it to his pocket. 
CHANCE Yes. Of course. (as he leaves) Good day. 
Abbaz, Lolo and the gang watch him go, then begin to buzz with excitement: "Who the fuck died?" "Why'd he pull that changer on us, man?" "The Old Man died, must be Papa Joe!" "He's some weird honkie, man." 
EXT. CHINATOWN - WASHINGTON, D.C. - AFTERNOON 
A Bulletin board affixed to a storefront in Chinatown. Chance gazes at the notes pinned to it, written in Chinese. Smiling, he turns from it, walks on through the area. 
EXT. PORNO AREA - WASHINGTON, D.C. - AFTERNOON 
A street lined with adult book stores, X-rated movies and strip joints. An elderly Black woman approaches carrying a bag of groceries. Chance steps in front of the woman, stops her. 
CHANCE I'm very hungry now. Would you please bring me my lunch? 
The woman looks up to Chance, becomes very frightened. She turns and half-runs into a sleazy bar for safety. Chance watches after her for a moment, then continues along. 
EXT. PARK - WASHINGTON, D.C. - AFTERNOON 
Chance stands looking through a chain-link fence watching some teenage boys playing basketball. He bangs on the fence, calls to them. 
CHANCE I have seen your game! I have watched Elvin Hayes play it many times! They call him "Big E!" 
The boys ignore him, Chance walks away. 
EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. STREET - LATE AFTERNOON 
Chance walks down the center meridian of a divided street. He seems oblivious to the automobiles passing on either side. In the background can be seen the Washington Monument. 
EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. STREET - LATE AFTERNOON 
Chance seems stumped on which way to go. He looks up one street, then the other, has no idea where they lead. He turns, looks behind him and sees a large statue of Benito Juarez pointing. Chance smiles and goes off in the direction that Benito points. 
EXT. REAR OF THE WHITE HOUSE - DUSK 
Tourists are gathered around gaping through the fence at the White House. Chance is turned the other way, inspecting the branches of a dying tree. Chance moves to a POLICEMAN standing nearby. 
CHANCE Excuse me... (points to tree) ... That tree is very sick. It should be cared for. 
The Policeman looks at the tree, then at Chance, figures a man dressed that well must be important. 
POLICEMAN Yes sir. I'll report it right away. 
CHANCE Yes. That would be a good thing to do. Good day. 
POLICEMAN Good day. 
The Policeman takes out his walkie-talkie as Chance walks away. 
EXT. BUSINESS DISTRICT - EVENING 
A fashionable area. Expensive shops, well-kept streets and sidewalks. A television store has caught Chance's eye. He stands by the display window, looks in at a dozen or so color TVs, all turned on, playing various channels. A video camera points outward from a corner of the window and is focused on the sidewalk to allow potential customers to see themselves live on an Advent TV. Chance is intrigued by his own image. He poses, lifts one arm, then the other to make sure that it is really him on television. He moves forward, smiles, then moves slowly backward, notices himself become smaller on the screen. He steps back off the curb, frowns as his likeness disappears from frame on the Advent. Standing between two parked cars, Chance takes out his remote control, clicks it at the Advent. Four or five other sets in the window change channels, but he does not reappear on the giant screen. As he does this, the car to his,left, a large, American-made limousine, backs up. The car bumps Chance, pins him against the car to his right. Chance cries out in pain, drops his suitcase, his changer, and bangs his hand on the trunk of the limo. The chauffeur, DAVID, and the liveryman, JEFFREY, immediately jump from the car, run back to Chance. 
DAVID I'm very sorry, sir... I... 
David and Jeffrey reach out to help, but Chance is wedged solidly between the two cars. 
CHANCE (in pain) ... I can't move... My leg... 
DAVID (rushes back to limo) ... My Lord... 
JEFFREY This is terrible, sir -  I hope you're not badly injured... 
CHANCE No. I'm not badly injured. But my leg is very sore. 
David pulls the car forward, freeing Chance. A few bystanders begin to gather as Jeffrey helps Chance to the sidewalk. 
JEFFREY Can you walk? It's not broken, is it? 
CHANCE (leans against limo, holds leg) It's very sore. 
CHANCE (doesn't understand) Your family doctor? 
EVE Yes. My husband has been very ill. His doctor and nurses are staying with us. Those hospitals can be so impersonal - why, it might be hours before you are treated... 
CHANCE I agree. 
EVE Fine, it will save a lot of unnecessary fuss and it will be so much more pleasant for you... (leans forward) David, we'll just go on home. Jeffrey, would you call and let them know? 
JEFFREY Yes ma'am. 
Eve presses a button, the glass partition closes. As the window rolls up behind him, Jeffrey dials the limo telephone. 
There is a moment of silence. Eve, still a bit on edge from the accident and feeling a bit uncomfortable with a stranger in the car, presses another button. The limo's bar moves out, revealing a row of decanters and glasses. 
EVE Would you care for a drink? 
CHANCE Yes. Thank you. 
As Eve pours cognac into a monogrammed crystal glass, Chance notices the limo's TV set. 
CHANCE (CONT'D) I would like to watch television. 
EVE (a bit surprised) Oh? Certainly... 
She hands Chance the cognac, turns on the TV. 
EVE (CONT'D) Oh, by the way - I'm Eve Rand. 
CHANCE Hello, Eve. 
Chance takes a sip of the cognac, is not accustomed to alcohol, coughs. There is another moment of silence. 
EVE May I ask your name? 
CHANCE (with a slight cough) My name is Chance. 
EVE Pardon me, was that Mr. Chance? 
CHANCE (still indistinct) No. I'm a gardener. 
EVE Oh... Mr. Gardiner... Mr. Chauncey Gardiner... You're not related to Basil and Perdita Gardiner are you? 
CHANCE No, Eve. I'm not related to Basil and Perdita. 
EVE Oh. Well, they're just a wonderful couple, we've been friends for years. We visit their island quite often. 
Chance reaches out to change the channel on the TV, suddenly realizes he doesn't have his remote control. He starts going through his pockets, searches for it. 
EVE (CONT'D) Did you lose something? 
CHANCE Yes. I lost my remote control. 
EVE Oh... Well, I'm very sorry... 
Another pause, Chance reaches out, changes channels on TV. 
EVE (CONT'D) ... I'll feel so relieved after Dr. Allenby examines your leg. After that, David can run you on home, or to your office or wherever you'd prefer... (Chance still watches TV) ... Is there anything special you would like to watch? 
CHANCE I like to watch. This is fine. 
Chance watches the news. Eve sips on her cognac as David eases the limo out of the city of Washington. 
EXT. HIGHWAY - WOODED AREA - NIGHT 
The limo approaches, then turns into the entrance-way of the Rand Estate. Two guards stand on either side of the open gate, salute as the car passes through. 
EXT. RAND DRIVE - NIGHT 
The drive runs alongside a stream, then turns and crosses a large meadow. The limousine passes, still no sign of the house. It is a very, very long driveway. 
INT. LIMOUSINE - NIGHT 
Chance is glued to the TV, switches channels, again watches the news. Eve takes his fascination with television as a sign of intelligence. 
EVE I can see that it must be very important for you to stay informed of all the latest events. 
CHANCE Yes. 
CHANCE Yes. I like that very much. 
BILLINGS (lining up Chance's leg) This won't take long, Mr. Gardiner. Please hold still when I ask. 
Chance stares at Billings, reacts to him being Black. 
CHANCE (to Billings) Do you know Raphael? 
BILLINGS No sir, I don't believe I do. 
CHANCE Oh. I have a message for him. 
BILLINGS Yes, sir. 
CHANCE A Black man gave me the message. 
BILLINGS Well, I still don't believe I know the man, Mr. Gardiner. Now, hold still. 
Rand looks over as Billings takes the X-Ray. 
RAND Aplastic anemia, Mr. Gardiner - aplastic anemia. 
Chance smiles to Rand. 
RAND (CONT'D) Failure of the bone marrow to produce red blood cells... Not a damn thing they can do about it. Oh, they can make me comfortable, prolong my life with steroid therapy and transfusions... And what makes my blood boil, what little I have left, that is, Mr. Gardiner - is that it's generally a young person's disease... Here I am, getting on in years and about to die of a young person's disease... 
CHANCE (still smiles at Rand) Yes. You look very sick. 
BILLINGS Hold still, please, Mr. Gardiner. 
RAND (a laugh) I am very sick, and, as you can see by all this paraphernalia, I am very wealthy. I think I would rather be wealthy and sick than poor and sick. 
CHANCE (looks around the room) I understand. I've never seen anything like this on television. 
BILLINGS Please, hold still, Mr. Gardiner. 
CONSTANCE You too, Mr. Rand, you must stay quiet. 
Rand lays his head back. 
RAND ... We're prisoners, Mr. Gardiner - we're prisoners of tubes and technology. 
CHANCE I agree. 
RAND (flat on his back) ... You will join us for dinner, won't you, Mr. Gardiner? 
CHANCE (also flat on his back) Yes. I am very hungry. 
RAND ... So am I, my boy - so am I. 
INT. RAND DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
THURMAND, a waiter, and MARIANNE, a waitress, enter into the Rand dining room carrying trays of food. The dining room is immense, a 70-foot ceiling, huge fireplace. Allenby, Eve, Rand, and Chance (both in wheelchairs) sit around the table. Rand speaks slowly, with obvious weakness. 
RAND I know exactly what you mean. Today the businessman is at the mercy of kid-lawyers from the SEC. All they want to do is regulate our natural growth! It's happening across the country! 
ALLENBY To everyone, I'm afraid. The Government controls are so restricting that the Medical Profession, as we know it, is being legislated out of existence. 
RAND Of course! By kid-lawyers! 
Eve turns to Chance. 
EVE Won't your injury prevent you from attending to business, Mr. Gardiner? 
CHANCE No. It won't do that. 
EVE ... Would you like us to notify anyone for you? 
CHANCE No. The Old Man died and Louise left. 
There is a moment of silence. 
EVE Oh. I'm very sorry. Well, if you have any need for any of our facilities, please do not hesitate to ask. 
RAND Do you need a secretary? 
CHANCE No, thank you. My house has been closed. 
Allenby watches Chance trying to light the cigar as Rand speaks on, shooting pool as he talks. 
RAND ... I'd like to offer the decent 'Gardeners' of the business community a helping hand. After all, they are our strongest defense against the pollutants who so threaten our basic freedoms and the well-being of our middle class. Tell me, would you have any thoughts on such a program? 
Chance puts the unlit cigar in the ashtray, smiles at Allenby, then answers Rand. 
CHANCE No, Ben. 
RAND (a smile) Reluctant to speak, eh, Chauncey? Well, I can understand that. When a man loses everything, anger has a tendency to block out reason for a time. Just give it some thought, work with the idea, I'm sure you'll have plenty to say in a few days. 
CHANCE I could give it some thought, Ben, but my leg is very sore. 
RAND ... Oh? (looks to Allenby) Robert, take a look, would you? 
ALLENBY Some pain is to be expected... (bends to Chance, looks at leg) ... And I think what would be best for the two of you is a good night's rest. (checks watch) ... It's late, I'm afraid it's time for my patients to prepare for bed. 
RAND (puts down pool cue) We have common foes, Chauncey - kid lawyers and our physician! 
CHANCE I agree. 
Allenby laughs as he takes Rand's cigar from him, snuffs it in the ashtray. 
INT. MANSION - ELEVATOR - NIGHT 
Wilson stands behind Chance in the wheelchair. Chance glances slowly and inquisitively around the elevator. When his eyes meet Wilson's, the valet breaks out in laughter. 
WILSON (laughing, trying to apologize) ... Sorry, sir - I just couldn't contain myself... I knew you were going to come out with another one of your jests about the elevator... Excuse me, sir... 
The elevator stops, the door opens. 
INT. MANSION - THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Wilson wheels Chance out of the elevator. 
CHANCE (looks back as the door closes) ... Hmmm... Elevator. 
WILSON (laughs again) ... Yes sir - elevator! 
Wilson stops laughing, becomes the stone-faced servant once again as he notices Eve coming out of her bedroom. Wilson stops wheeling Chance, stands stiffly at attention as Eve and Chance talk. 
EVE Chauncey, I wanted to tell you how dreadful I feel about the accident today, but that I'm delighted that you are staying with us. 
CHANCE Thank you, Eve - I like this house very much. 
EVE ... And Ben is just mad about you - you've lifted his spirits so - it's just... Well, it's just a real pleasure having you with us. 
CHANCE Ben is very ill, Eve - I've seen that before. 
EVE Yes... I know, Chauncey. 
CHANCE I like Ben very much... He reminds me of the Old Man... 
EVE He does...? 
CHANCE Yes. Are you going to leave and close the house when he dies? 
Eve is not prepared for such a question. 
EVE ... Why... No, I don't think so... 
CHANCE That's good. 
Chance smiles at Eve and there is a moment of silence before Eve steps back into her bedroom. 
EVE ... Good night, Chauncey. 
CHANCE Good night, Eve. 
Eve closes the door. Wilson wheels Chance down the hallway toward the guest room. 
EXT. FRONT OF RAND MANSION - MORNING 
Eve comes out of the house, Jeffrey holds the door for her as she gets into "RAND l." Jeffrey gets in and the limo pulls away. Chance comes out of the front door, walking with a limp. His first view of the Rand grounds in the daylight, he is taken by the extent of the greenery. An attendant, LEWIS, hurries to Chance. 
LEWIS Did you want a car, sir? 
CHANCE Yes. I would like a car. 
CHANCE Yes, I would like to see Ben. 
SMYTHE Oh, Mr. Rand, of course. Right this way, sir. 
Chance follows Smythe down the hall. 
INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING 
Rand is in an easy chair, dressed for his meeting with the President. The two nurses are working at the disinfecting table. Rand smiles as Chance is shown into the room by Smythe. 
RAND Chauncey, up and around this morning, are you? 
CHANCE Yes, Ben. My leg is not very sore. 
RAND Well, that's good news, my boy. 
CHANCE You're looking much better today, Ben. 
RAND Hah! It's all make-up, Chauncey... I asked nurse Teresa to fix me up, I didn't want the President to think I was going to die during our talk. 
CHANCE I understand. 
RAND No one likes a dying man, my boy - because few know what death is. All we know is the terror of it. But you're an exception, Chauncey - that's what I admire in you, your marvelous balance. You don't stagger back and forth between fear and hope - you're a truly peaceful man. 
CHANCE Thank you, Ben. (looks at Rand closely) ... The nurse did a very good job, Ben. 
The nurses turn, look at Chance. 
EXT. FRONT RAND MANSION - MORNING 
Wilson is at the head of eight servants lined up on the front steps. Two black PLYMOUTH SEDANS pull up and park. EIGHT MEN in grey business suits get out. One of them, WOLTZ, goes directly to Wilson. 
WOLTZ Good morning, Mr. Wilson. 
WILSON Good morning, Mr. Woltz, nice to see you again. 
WOLTZ Thank you. How have you been? 
WILSON Fine, thank you. (hands Woltz paper) We have an additional guest with us today, Mr. Chauncey Gardiner. 
WOLTZ (reads list) I see... (turns to other men) Okay, let's go to work. 
The eight servants pair up with the eight men in suits and go into the house. 
INT. RAND MANSION - THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - MORNING 
Allenby gets off the elevator, stands and thinks for a moment, then heads off down the hallway in the direction of Chance's room. 
INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING 
Chance watches television as Rand speaks. 
RAND Yes, when I was younger I had thoughts about public office... But I found, Chauncey - that I was able to contribute more as a private citizen... of course, my wealth provided me with considerable influence, but I've tried, believe me, not to misuse that power... It's extremely important, Chauncey, when one is in a position of eminence, that he does not allow himself to become blinded to the needs of the country... The temptations are strong, and I've been labeled a 'kingmaker' by many, but I have tried to stay open to voices of the people... I have tried to remain honest to myself... 
CHANCE (changing channels) I see, Ben. 
RAND ... Maybe one day you shall find yourself in a similar position, Chauncey... Maybe one day... 
EXT. FRONT RAND MANSION - MORNING 
Two black limousines followed by a station wagon with small holes in the side pull up in front of the mansion. As men from the first limousine and the station wagon jump out and take positions around the driveway, Lewis hurries to his post, picks up his phone. 
INT. RAND MANSION - MRS. AUBREY'S OFFICE - MORNING 
The nerve center of the Rand Enterprises since he has become ill. Four or five desks, all the latest electronic office equipment, three TV's with video taping facilities, countless telephones. MRS. AUBREY, Rand's senior secretary, is at her desk, answers her phone. 
MRS. AUBREY (into phone) Yes... Oh, very good, Lewis, thank you. 
Mrs. Aubrey hangs up, picks up another phone, pushes a button. 
INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING 
Rand smiles at Chance as the phone rings. 
RAND He's here. (into phone) Yes, Mrs. Aubrey? (listens) Fine. Show the President to the library, we'll be along in a few minutes. 
Rand hangs up the phone, turns to Chance with a twinkle in his eyes. 
PRESIDENT Well, Mr. Gardiner, that's just fine with me - I'm a man that appreciates a frank discussion... Be seated, please, Mr. Gardiner... 
CHANCE (sitting) Yes, I will. 
PRESIDENT (also sits) Now, Ben, did you happen to get a chance to... 
Chance perks up at the mention of his name, interrupts. 
CHANCE Yes? 
There is a beat as the President looks at Chance quizzically, then he continues. 
PRESIDENT I just wondered if you had gone over my speech, Ben. 
RAND Yes, I did. 
PRESIDENT ... Well? 
RAND Overall - pretty good. But, Mr. President, I think it's very dangerous to resort to temporary measures at this stage of the game. 
PRESIDENT Well, Ben... I... 
RAND I sympathize with your position, Mr. President, I know how difficult it is to be straightforward, the reaction to such a speech could be chaos. 
PRESIDENT That's too big a risk, I can't take the chance. 
CHANCE (again perks up) Yes? 
Once again, the President gives Chance a puzzled look. 
INT. RAND MANSION - THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - MORNING 
Perkins accompanies Secret Service Agent RIFF as he checks out the third floor. Riff knocks on each door, looks inside, then moves in. 
INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - MORNING 
Allenby is searching through Chancels clothes looking for some sort of identification. There is a knock at the door, Allenby pulls back from the closet as Riff opens the door, looks inside. 
ALLENBY Oh... Hello. 
RIFF (entering) Good morning. I'm Riff, Secret Service. 
ALLENBY ... Yes. Of course. 
Perkins watches curiously as Riff passes the metal detector over Allenby's clothing. 
INT. LIBRARY - MORNING 
The President is worried about what Rand is telling him. He paces, smokes a cigarette. Chance smiles through it all. 
RAND ... There is no longer any margin for inflation, it has gone as far as it can, you've reached your limits on taxation, dependence on foreign energy has reached a crisis, and, from where I see it, Mr. President, the Free Enterprise System has reached the breaking point. We are on the brink of another crash from which recovery might not be possible. 
PRESIDENT It's that serious, huh? 
RAND I'm afraid so. 
The President now looks nearly as bad as Rand. He sits, turns to Chance. 
PRESIDENT Do you agree with Ben, Mr. Gardiner? Are we finished? Or do you think we can stimulate growth through temporary incentives? 
CHANCE (a beat) As long as the roots are not severed, all is well and all will be well in the garden. 
PRESIDENT (a pause) ... In the garden? 
CHANCE That is correct. In a garden, growth has its season. There is spring and summer, but there is also fall and winter. And then spring and summer again... 
PRESIDENT (staring at Chance) ... Spring and summer... (confused) Yes, I see... Fall and winter. (smiles at Chance) Yes, indeed... (a beat) Could you go through that one more time, please, Mr. Gardiner? 
RAND I think what my most insightful friend is saying, Mr. President, is that we welcome the inevitable seasons of nature, yet we are upset by the seasons of our economy. 
CHANCE Yes. That is correct. 
PRESIDENT (pleased) ...Well, Mr. Gardiner, I must admit, that is one of the most refreshing and optimistic statements I've heard in a very, very long time. 
The President puts out his cigarette, rises. 
PRESIDENT (CONT'D) ... Many of us forget that nature and society are one! Yes, though we have tried to cut ourselves off from nature, we are still a part of it! Like nature, our economic system remains, in the long run, stable and rational. And that is why we must not fear to be at its mercy! (he smiles at Chance, who is absorbed in looking around the room at the books) ... I envy your good, solid sense, Mr. Gardiner - that is precisely what we lack on Capitol Hill. (glances at watch) I must be going. (holds out hand to Chance) Mr. Gardiner, this visit has been enlightening... 
EVE (approaches Chance, calls) Chauncey! 
CHANCE (stops, turns) Hello, Eve. 
EVE Your leg must be getting better. 
CHANCE Yes. It's feeling much better now. 
EVE Good. I'm glad to hear that. (they walk together) ... How did you like meeting the President? 
CHANCE Fine. He's very nice. 
EVE Yes, he is. I'm sorry I didn't get to see him. 
They walk along in silence for a moment. Chance sees a huge greenhouse not far from them, heads toward it. Eve turns to him, hesitates, then questions. 
EVE (CONT'D) ... Chauncey... Last night you mentioned an old man, that died. 
CHANCE Yes. 
EVE Was he a relative? Or an intimate friend? 
CHANCE (looking at greenhouse) He was a very wealthy man, he looked after me since I was young. 
EVE Oh, I see... Your mentor, perhaps? 
CHANCE (quizzically) ... Mentor...? 
Eve takes his uncertainty as a reluctance to discuss the Old Man. 
EVE Forgive me, Chauncey - I didn't mean to pry. You must have been very close to him. 
CHANCE Yes. I was. 
EVE I'm sorry... (getting more to the point) ... And what about Louise? YOU mentioned that she had gone, were you close to her also? 
CHANCE Yes. I liked Louise very much. She was his maid. 
EVE (relieved) Oh, his maid!... Stupid me, I thought perhaps she was someone that you may have been romantically involved with. 
CHANCE Oh, no. She brought me my meals. 
EVE (pleased) Of course. 
Eve edges slightly closer to Chance. Chance edges slightly closer to the greenhouse, is fascinated by it. 
CHANCE What is that? 
EVE Our greenhouse. 
CHANCE (pleased) Oh, I like that very much. 
EVE Yes, so do we. 
Chance peeks through one of the windows. 
INT. RAND'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Rand is in bed. Eve, Chance and Allenby are seated around him, the two nurses standing to one side. They all watch the President's address to the Financial Institute on TV. Chance inhales deeply, enjoys the oxygen in the room. Rand is looking weaker. Every so often, Allenby casts a concerned glance his way. 
PRESIDENT'S VOICE ... And there are so many of you that have proclaimed that we are on the brink of the worst financial crisis in this nation's history. And there are so many of you demanding that we put into effect drastic measures to alter its course. Well, let me tell you, gentlemen, I have been conducting multiple-level consultations with members of the Cabinet, House and Senate. I have conducted meetings with prominent business leaders throughout the country. And this very morning I had an in-depth discussion with your founder and Chairman-Of-The-Board, Mr. Benjamin Turnbull Rand and his close friend and advisor Mr. Chauncey Gardiner... 
Rand perks up a bit at this mention. Allenby manages a smile, once again looks at Rand, checking his condition. Eve looks proudly at Chance, who continues to enjoy the oxygen. 
PRESIDENT'S VOICE (CONT'D) ... Well, gentlemen, I found this to be a most rewarding conference... To quote Mr. Gardiner, a most intuitive man, 'As long as the roots of industry remain firmly planted in the national soil, the economic prospects are undoubtedly sunny.' 
Rand starts coughing, breathing heavily. Allenby and the nurses rush to his bedside. Allenby shoots a quick look to Eve and Chance. 
ALLENBY (motioning toward door) Excuse us, please. 
Eve and Chance leave the room as Allenby administers aid to Rand. 
PRESIDENT'S VOICE Gentlemen, let us not fear the inevitable chill and storms of autumn and winter, instead, let us anticipate the rapid growth of springtime, let us await the rewards of summer. As in a garden of the earth, let us learn to accept and appreciate the times when the trees are bare as well as the times when we pick the fruit. 
EXT. RAND MANSION - PATIO - DAY 
Eve and Chance sit in silence on the patio. Eve's eyes are swollen, red, she has been crying. She turns to Chance, reaches out, touches his hand. 
CHANCE Hmmm. Elevator. 
He gets in the elevator. 
INT. ELEVATOR - DAY 
Chance looks at the row of buttons, presses one. He smiles as he feels the elevator move. 
INT. RAND MANSION - BASEMENT - DAY 
One of Mrs. Aubrey's secretaries, JENNIFER, waits with an arm load of paperwork for the elevator. The door opens, Chance smiles at her as he steps out. 
JENNIFER (surprised to see him) Why, hello, Mr. Gardiner - are you looking for someone? 
CHANCE No. 
Jennifer gets in the elevator, the doors Close. Chance looks around the basement, puzzled. He had expected to be on the third floor. 
INT. MRS. AUBREY'S OFFICE - DAY 
Mrs. Aubrey is at her desk, buzzing her inter-house phone. As Jennifer enters, Mrs. Aubrey hangs up in frustration. 
MRS. AUBREY I can't find Mr. Gardiner anywhere. 
JENNIFER He's in the basement. 
MRS. AUBREY What's he doing in the basement? 
JENNIFER I don't know, Mrs. Aubrey. 
Mrs. Aubrey grabs a notepad, leaves the office. 
INT. RAND MANSION - BASEMENT - DAY 
Mrs. Aubrey comes out of the service elevator, hurries through the basement. She checks: The boiler room. The electrical room. The photographer's studio (Eve is sitting for a portrait) The gym (Allenby is working out) 
INT. RAND MANSION - BASEMENT BOWLING ALLEY - DAY 
Chance stands in the middle of the two-lane bowling alley, totally confused. Mrs. Aubrey enters, he smiles at her. 
MRS. AUBREY Oh, Mr. Gardiner, I've been looking all over. 
CHANCE Oh, yes. 
MRS. AUBREY Morton Hull, the producer of 'This Evening' just called. 
CHANCE Yes, I have seen that show on television. 
MRS. AUBREY Of course. They would like you to appear on the show tonight. The Vice President was scheduled, but he had to cancel, and they asked if you would be interested. 
CHANCE Yes. I would like to be on that show. 
MRS. AUBREY Fine. They felt that since you had such close ties with the President, you would be a splendid choice. (Chance nods, there is a pause) ... Can I help you? Are you looking for something? 
CHANCE No. I like this attic very much. 
Mrs. Aubrey gives him a look, leaves. 
EXT. SKY - DUSK 
AIR FORCE 1 passes through the clouds. 
INT. AIR FORCE 1 - DUSK 
The President sits on a couch in one of the compartments on the jet. Before him, stand six of his STAFF, Kaufman included. 
PRESIDENT ... Gentlemen, I quoted this man on national television today he is obviously a financial sophisticate of some reknown. 
KAUFMAN Yes, sir - we are aware of all that, but still, we haven't been able to... 
PRESIDENT (interrupts) He's an advisor and close personal friend of Rand's! For Christ sakes, they have volumes of data on Benjamin! 
KAUFMAN Yes, Mr. President, we attempted to contact Mr. Rand, but he was too ill to... 
PRESIDENT (again interrupts) I do not want Benjamin Rand disturbed! You have other ways of gathering information than to trouble a dying man. Use whatever agencies are necessary to put together a detailed history of Chauncey Gardiner, if you run into problems, alert Honeycutt. (he stands) I'll be in the office at seven in the morning and I would like to have it at that time. (he starts for door) I've got to take a leak. 
KAUFMAN Right, Chief. 
INT. RAND MANSION - CHANCE'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Constance is in the closet, searching through Chance's pockets, finding nothing. She takes out a small knife, cuts a label from one of the jackets. Quickly, she examines one of Chance's shoes, copies the name of the shoemaker in a notebook. Constance hurries to the dresser, continues her search. 
INT. TV STATION - CORRIDOR/MAKEUP ROOM  NIGHT 
COLSON, the makeup man, comes through the corridor carrying a glass of water. He turns into the makeup room, goes to Chance who sits in front of the lights. Hull sits next to Chance, briefs him on the show. Chance has his eyes on a TV monitor, watches the guest preceding him on "This Evening." 
COLSON (gives Chance water) Here you go, Mr. Gardiner. 
CHANCE Thank you. I'm very thirsty. 
COLSON Yes, sir - it's hot under those lights. 
Colson applies finishing touches to Chance. 
HULL Now, if the host wants to ask you a question, he'll raise his left forefinger to his left eyebrow. (Chance watches TV) Then you'll stop, and he'll say something, and then you'll answer. 
On the TV, WILLIAM DUPONT, the host, wraps up his talk with his guest. 
COLSON (a last-minute dab) Okay, Mr. Gardiner, you're all set. 
Hull leads Chance out of the makeup room. Colson closes the door, then carefully picks up Chance's water glass, wraps it in Kleenex, puts it in his overcoat pocket. 
INT. TV STATION - "THIS EVENING" STUDIO - NIGHT 
William Dupont introduces Chance. 
DUPONT Ladies and gentlemen, our very distinguished quest, Mr. Chauncey Gardiner! 
The BAND plays as Chance comes onto the stage. An audience of about three hundred applauds Chance as he appears. Two TV cameras move with him as he walks, with a smile and a limp, to center stage. Dupont shakes Chance's hand, Chance holds Dupont's hand with both of his own. 
DUPONT (CONT'D) Mr. Gardiner, how very nice to have you with us this evening. 
CHANCE Yes. 
DUPONT (showing Chance to chair) I'd like to thank you for filling in on such short notice for the Vice President. 
CHANCE (sits) You're welcome. 
DUPONT (also sitting) I always find it surprising, Mr. Gardiner, to find men like yourself, who are working so intimately with the President, yet manage to remain relatively unknown. 
CHANCE Yes. That is surprising. 
DUPONT (a beat) ... Well, your anonymity will be a thing of the past from now on. 
CHANCE (doesn't understand) I hope so. 
DUPONT Yes... Of course, you know, Mr. Gardiner, that I always prefer an open and frank conversation with my guests, I hope you don't object to that. 
CHANCE No. I don't object. 
DUPONT Fine, then let's get started. The current state of our country is of vital interest to us all, and I would like to know if you agree with the President's view of the economy? 
CHANCE Which view? 
Applause and laughter from the audience. Dupont accustomed to parrying with his guests, asks again. 
DUPONT Come now, Mr. Gardiner, before his speech at the Financial Institute the President consulted with you and Benjamin Rand, did he not? 
CHANCE Yes. I was there with Ben. 
DUPONT I know that, Mr. Gardiner. 
CHANCE Yes. 
DUPONT (a beat) Well, let me rephrase the question; the President compared the economy of this country to a garden, and stated that after a period of decline a time of growth would naturally follow. Do you go along with this belief? 
CHANCE Yes, I know the garden very well. I have worked in it all my life. It is a good garden and a healthy one; its trees are healthy and so are its shrubs and flowers, as long as they are trimmed and watered in the right seasons. The garden needs a lot of care. I do agree with the President; everything in it will grow strong, and there is plenty of room in it for new trees and new flowers of all kinds. 
The audience applauds Chance's apparent metaphor. Dupont waits for it all to subside, then asks another question. 
INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 
Rand is in bed. Eve sits in a chair next to the bed, squeezes Rand's hand in excitement as they both watch Chance on television. Teresa, the nurse, watches in the background. 
DUPONT (over TV) ...Well, Mr. Gardiner, that was very well put indeed, and I feel it was a booster for all of us who do not like to wallow in complaints or take delight in gloomy predictions. 
CHANCE (over TV) ... Some plants do well in the sun, and others grow better in the cool of the shade. 
INT. HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT 
A group of ELDERLY BLACK PEOPLE sit in the lobby, watch "This Evening" on an old black-and-white TV. 
CHANCE (over TV) ... It is the gardener's responsibility to take water from the flooded area and run it to the area that is dry. It is the gardener's responsibility not to plant a sun-loving flower in the shade of a high wall... 
During the preceding speech, Louise, the maid from the Old Man's house, chatters. 
LOUISE Gobbledegook! All the time he talked gobbledegook! An' it's for sure a White man's world in America, hell, I raised that boy since he was the size of a pissant an' I'll say right now he never learned to read an' write - no sir! Had no brains at all, was stuffed with rice puddin' between the ears! Shortchanged by the Lord and dumb as a jackass an' look at him now! Yes, sir - all you gotta be is white in America an' you get whatever you want! Just listen to that boy - gobbledegook! 
There is a chorus of "Amens" as she finishes. 
INT. TV STUDIO - NIGHT 
Chance continues. 
CHANCE ... It is the responsibility of the gardener to adjust to the bad seasons as well as enjoy the good ones. If the gardener does his job, everything will be fine. 
INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 
Audience applause is heard over TV. Rand claps weakly along with the TV sound. Eve and Teresa also clap. 
RAND (smiling) Splendid. Just splendid... 
Rand looks up as Constance comes into the room. 
RAND (CONT'D) Damn, Constance, get in here! You shouldn't miss any of this! 
Constance hurries to Teresa's side. Rand turns to Eve. 
RAND (CONT'D) I'm becoming quite attached to Chauncey - quite attached... (Eve smiles) ... And so are you, aren't you, Eve. 
EVE (a beat) ... Yes, I am, Ben. 
RAND (reaches out, takes her hand) That's good... That's good. 
DUPONT (over TV) Well, Mr. Gardiner, from the sound of our audience, I'd say that your words are a most welcome respite from what we've been hearing from others... 
CHANCE (over TV) Thank you. 
INT. TV STUDIO - NIGHT 
Dupont asks another question. 
DUPONT I'm sorry to say that our time is running short, but before we close, I'd like to ask one final question. What sort of gardener, sir, would you be? 
CHANCE (with confidence) I am a very serious gardener. 
INT. PRESIDENT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
More applause over the TV. The President pales. 
PRESIDENT Oh, Jesus... 
He rolls over in bed. The First Lady reaches out, puts a comforting hand on his shoulder. 
INT. FRANKLIN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Franklin holds a phone to his ear with one hand, shuts off the TV with the other. 
FRANKLIN Okay, I'll see you in twenty minutes. 
Franklin hangs up the phone, scurries around getting dressed. His wife, Johanna, sits grimly in bed. 
JOHANNA (coldly) ... Business, bullshit! Going out in the middle of the night to meet that bitch in a bar... 
FRANKLIN Sally Hayes is not a bitch - she's a damn fine attorney! I've got to talk to her about this Gardiner... 
JOHANNA (turns over in bed) Good night. 
FRANKLIN Look, Johanna... 
JOHANNA (cuts him off) I said good night! 
Franklin gives up, hurries from the room. 
CHANCE Certainly, Ben. 
RAND Senator Rowley's widow, Sophie, is hosting an evening reception tomorrow evening honoring Ambassador Skrapinov of the Soviet Union... I think it's rather obvious that Robert won't allow me to attend, so - would you go in my place, and escort Eve? 
CHANCE Yes. I would like to escort Eve. 
RAND Good. Together, the two of you should create quite a stir - I can already hear the gossip. 
EVE (with a blush) ... Ben, really... 
RAND (reaches out a tired hand to Chance - Chance holds it) ... Thank you, Chauncey... Thank you very much. (takes back hand) ... All right, Robert, I'm all yours. 
Eve and Chance quietly leave the room. Allenby watches Chance go, then readies Rand for the injection. 
INT. RAND MANSION - THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT 
The elevator door opens, Eve and Chance come into the hallway. Chance looks back at the elevator for a beat, then the two walk quietly down the hall. 
EVE (stopping by bedroom door) ... You don't happen to have a tuxedo in your suitcase, do you? 
CHANCE No, thank you. 
EVE Oh. Well, we can fix up one of Ben's for you tomorrow night. Sophie insists an Black Tie. 
CHANCE I see. 
EVE (a pause, softly) ... I have very few friends, Chauncey... And Benjamin's friends are all quite a bit older... 
Eve gives Chance a long look, then kisses him on the lips. She steps back, smiles. 
EVE (CONT'D) ... Good night, Chauncey. 
CHANCE Good night, Eve. 
Eve goes into her bedroom, closes the door. Chance heads for his room as though nothing had happened. 
INT. WHITE HOUSE - OVAL OFFICE ANTE ROOM - MORNING 
Kaufman and the five other Aides nervously await the President's arrival. The door opens, the President briskly enters the room. 
PRESIDENT Good morning, gentlemen. 
AIDES (as one) Good morning, sir. 
The President leads the way into the Oval Office. 
INT. OVAL OFFICE - MORNING 
As the President goes to his desk, Kaufman hands him a folder. The President sits, reads it quickly, it is very brief. 
PRESIDENT (to Kaufman) This is not what I requested. 
KAUFMAN No, sir. 
PRESIDENT This information goes back three days. I want the standard file, you know that. 
KAUFMAN Right, Chief. 
PRESIDENT So...? Where the hell is it? 
KAUFMAN We... uh, have been unable to come up with any information before the man appeared at Mr. Rand's home ... and, uh... 
PRESIDENT What the hell are you talking about, Kaufman? 
KAUFMAN Well, we do have data from Honeycutt's sources, Chief - but it isn't pertinent. 
PRESIDENT I'd like to hear that data, Kaufman. 
KAUFMAN Yes, sir. 
Kaufman takes a clipboard from the man at his right. 
KAUFMAN (CONT'D) (reading) Suits hand-made by a tailor in Chicago in 1918. The tailor went out of business in 1929, then took his own life. ... His shoes were hand-made in 1928. The cobbler has long since been dead. Underwear, all of the finest cloth, factory destroyed by fire in 1938. The man carries no identification; no wallet, no driver's license, no credit cards. ... He carries one item along with him, a fine Swiss pocket-watch crafted at the turn of the century; so far they have been unable to ascertain where or when purchase was made. ... He has never dyed his hair. ... Computers have analyzed Gardiner's vocal characteristics; it is impossible to determine his ethnic background, they feel his accent may be northeastern, but they will not commit to that. ... Fingerprint check proved negative, no identification possible. (a pause) ... That's it, Mr. President. 
The President stares at Kaufman for a beat, then speaks into his intercom. 
PRESIDENT (into intercom) Miss Davis - I'd like my eggs poached this morning, please. 
CHANCE (smiling for photogs) I didn't read it. 
REPORTER #2 (surprised) But air - you must have at least glanced at it. 
CHANCE No. I did not glance at it. 
REPORTER #3 Mr. Gardiner, the New York Times spoke of your 'Peculiar brand of optimism,' what was your reaction to that? 
CHANCE (continues to pose for pictures) I did not read that either. 
REPORTER #3 Well, how do you feel about that phrase, 'Peculiar brand of optimism?' 
CHANCE I do not know what it means. 
REPORTER #2 Sorry to persist, air, but it would be of great interest to me to know what newspapers you do read. 
CHANCE I do not read any newspapers. I watch TV. 
There is a moment of silence as the reporters digest this. The TV Reporter smiles, questions Chance. 
TV REPORTER ... Do you mean, Mr. Gardiner, that you find television's coverage of the news superior to that of the newspapers? 
CHANCE (flatly) I like to watch TV. 
TV REPORTER (pleased) ) Thank you, Mr. Gardiner, for what is probably the most honest admission to come from a public figure in years. Few men in public life have the courage not to read newspapers none have the guts to admit it. 
CHANCE You're welcome. 
Eve and Chance walk toward the front door, leaving the newsmen to talk among themselves. 
EVE I've never seen anyone handle the media as well as you, Chauncey. You're so cool and detached - almost as if you were born to it. 
CHANCE Thank you, Eve. 
The front door is opened for them by an attendant. 
INT. SOPHIE'S - EVENING 
The Black Tie reception is in progress. The house is crowded, possibly a hundred guests, mostly foreign ambassadors and other such dignitaries. Eve and Chance enter, are greeted by DENNIS WATSON, a State Department official. 
WATSON Mrs. Rand, how good to see you. 
EVE Mr. Watson. 
WATSON (looks to Chance) And you must be Mr. Gardiner, correct? 
CHANCE Yes. 
EVE Chauncey, this is Mr. Dennis Watson of the State Department. 
CHANCE (they shake) Hello, Dennis. 
WATSON A pleasure to meet you, sir. 
CHANCE Yes. It is. 
SOPHIE, an older woman bedecked with jewelry, approaches, embraces Eve. 
SOPHIE Eve, child! How nice of you to come. 
EVE Hello, Sophie. 
Sophie steps back, looks at Chance. 
SOPHIE And look who you brought with! 
EVE Sophie, this is Chauncey Gardiner... 
SOPHIE (hugs Chance) Oh, I've been just dying to meet you, Mr. Gardiner! 
EVE Chauncey, this is Mrs. Sophia Rowley. 
CHANCE (being hugged) Hello, Sophia. 
SOPHIE (steps back, admires Chance) Sophie, please - call me Sophie! 
Sophie pulls them both into the party, leaving Dennis looking after Chance as he walks away. 
INT. WHITE HOUSE - OVAL OFFICE - NIGHT 
The President sits behind his desk in a bathrobe, his hair mussed. Standing before him are GROVER HONEYCUTT, the Director of the F.B.I., and CLIFFORD BALDWIN, C.I.A. Chief. Kaufman stands to one side. All are red-eyed, tired, and frustrated. 
HONEYCUTT I never gave such a directive, Mr. President. 
BALDWIN Nor I, sir - it would be out of the question. 
PRESIDENT Gentlemen, I didn't call you here at such an hour to make accusations, I just want to explore the possibilities. Now, I have three questions; Is the man a foreign agent? Or, have we suddenly found that our methods of gathering data are grossly inefficient? Or, thirdly, have the man's files been destroyed? Now, I'd like some answers. 
BALDWIN Gardiner is not a foreign agent, there are now sixteen countries investigating the man. We can rule that out. 
PRESIDENT Very well... Can we rule out inefficiency...? 
There is silence in the room. A couple of looks, but silence. 
PRESIDENT (CONT'D) I see. What about question three? Is it possible to erase all traces of a man? 
HONEYCUTT Highly unlikely, sir... In fact, the boys around the Bureau feel that the only person capable of pulling it off would be an ex F.B.I. man. 
BALDWIN (a look to Honeycutt) I don't think that's entirely true, Grover. 
PRESIDENT (to Baldwin) And what do the boys around Intelligence think? 
BALDWIN Well, Mr. President... They don't quite know what to think. 
PRESIDENT (rising) Gentlemen, needless to say, there is going to be a full Congressional investigation of your respective operations. (goes to door) Good night. 
The President leaves the Oval Office. 
INT. RAND MANSION - THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Eve and Chance walk down the hallway. 
EVE (holding his hand) I feel so close to you, so safe with you, Chauncey... (stops at her bedroom door) ... And Benjamin understands that, dearest... He understands and accepts my feelings for you... 
CHANCE Yes, Eve. Ben is very wise. 
EVE (opens her door) ... Come in, Chauncey - please come in... 
CHANCE Thank you. 
Chance enters, Eve closes the door behind them. 
INT. EVE'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Eve turns on a soft lamp, Chance goes directly to her TV, turns it on. 
EVE I can sense that you've been through a lot, Chauncey. But one day, when you feel like it, you'll tell me all about your life... (Chance watches an old movie) ... But, even if you tell me nothing, even if it's too painful for you to reveal your past... 
As she talks, Chance watches a love scene on TV. The hero gives his lady a passionate kiss and embrace. The scene seems to 'sink into' Chance's mind. He abruptly turns, takes Eve into his arms and kisses her full on the mouth. Just as abruptly, he turns away and changes channels on TV. 
EVE (breathless) Oh, Chauncey... I do love you so much! 
She takes Chance in her arms, kisses him wildly. They fall to her bed in an embrace. As she holds him, kisses him, runs her hands over his body, Chance watches television, neither resists nor responds to Eve's caresses. Suddenly she stops, lets her head fall on Chance's chest. 
EVE (CONT'D) ... You don't want me, Chauncey... You don't feel anything for me... Nothing at all... 
Chance sits up on the bed, then, feeling her sadness, gently strokes her hair as he looks at TV. 
EVE (CONT'D) I just don't excite you at all... I don't know what you want... I don't know what you like... 
CHANCE I like to watch. 
EVE (not understanding) To watch...? To watch me...? 
CHANCE Yes. I like to watch. 
EVE (uncertain) ... Is that all you want...? (a hesitation) ... To watch me...? 
CHANCE Yes. It's very good, Eve. 
EVE ... But I've never done... (another hesitation) ... You mean...? When... When... When I do it? ... When I touch myself...? 
Eve slowly gets up from the bed, nervously paces the bedroom as Chance watches TV. She makes a decision, moves to Chance, kisses him. 
EVE (CONT'D) (getting aroused) Oh, Chauncey... 
Chance reaches out, uncovers Rand's face, gently touches the man's forehead, feels the coldness. Allenby eyes him as Chance stays with Rand for a moment, then replaces the sheet. 
CHANCE (turns to Allenby) Will you be leaving now, Robert? 
ALLENBY In a day or two, yes. 
CHANCE Eve is going to stay. The house will not be closed. 
ALLENBY (a moment, a look) ... You've become quite a close friend of Eve's - haven't you Mr... (a beat) ... Chance...? 
CHANCE Yes. I love Eve very much. 
ALLENBY I see... (another beat) ... And you are really a gardener, aren't you? 
CHANCE (brightens) Yes, Robert - I am. (a smile at Allenby) I'll go tell Eve about Ben now, Robert. 
Chance leaves the bedroom. Allenby watches him go, then sits back in a chair, his head spinning. 
EXT. RAND MANSION - DAY 
A cloudy, cold day patches of snow are on the ground. The Rand servants are lined up in front of the mansion, listen to funeral services for Rand on a pair of loudspeakers. PAN AROUND, reveal the services being held on a hill overlooking the mansion. Fifty mourners are gathered around the Rand family mausoleum. Chance stands with Eve and Allenby. The President of the United States stands before a microphone. 
PRESIDENT ... Millions of people across the world have heard of the passing of Benjamin Rand; but, unfortunately, only relatively few will feel the pain and sadness at such a loss. To most, Benjamin Rand was a legend; to those of us gathered here today, Benjamin was a beloved friend. My personal association with Benjamin dates back many years, and my memories of our friendship will stay with me forever. 
As the President speaks, Chance turns and walks away. Eve and Allenby watch as he goes into the trees surrounding the area. 
PRESIDENT (CONT'D) I initially came in contact with the Rand name in 1943. 1 was a young lieutenant in the Air Corps, a navigator flying missions over Europe. That plane that I learned to know so well was manufactured by the Rand Aeronautics Corporation. (a beat) Benjamin Rand was an industrial giant, known to be powerful and uncompromising, and yet, on a personal level, we have all felt his warmth and humor... (a beat) ... I would like to share with you a few quotes, and a few feelings from our dear friend. (holds up paper, reads) ... 'I do not regret having political differences with men that I respect; I do regret, however, that our philosophies kept us apart.' ... 'I have no use for those on welfare, no patience whatsoever... But, if I am to be honest with myself, I must admit that they have no use for me, either.' ... 'I was born into a position of extreme wealth, I have spent many sleepless nights thinking about extreme poverty -  I do not know the feelings of being poor, and that is not to know the feelings of the majority of people in this world. For a man in my position, that is inexcusable.' 'Life is a state of mind.' ... 'When I was a boy, I was told that the Lord fashioned us from his own image. That's when I decided to manufacture mirrors.' 
INT. LARGE AUDITORIUM - DAY 
Ah auditorium with row upon row of empty seats. Huddled together at one end of the hall are six important businessmen, speaking in hushed tones. JAMES DUDLEY, a powerful industrialist, speaks. 
DUDLEY But what do we know of the man? Nothing! We have no inkling of his past! 
SEWELL NELSON, a corporation chairman, joins in. 
NELSON Correct, and that is an asset. A man's past can cripple him, his background turns into a swamp and invites scrutiny. 
Another executive, PETER CALDWELL, agrees. 
CALDWELL To this time, he hasn't said anything that could be used against him. 
CHARLIE BOB BENNET, a Texas oil millionaire; 
BENNET Well, I'm certainly open to the thought - it would be sheer lunacy to support the President for another term. 
NELSON No one will go along with that... Look at the facts, gentlemen, the response from his appearance on 'This Evening' was overwhelming; he has excited and awakened the people of this country at a time of despair. 
LYMAN MURRAY, a banker; 
MURRAY He's personable, elusive, yet seemingly honest. He's riding a crest of popularity that builds with every statement. As far as his thinking goes, he appears to be one of us. I firmly believe, gentlemen, that he is our only chance - Mr. Chauncey Gardiner! 
EXT. WOODS - DAY 
Chance, his umbrella under his arm, walks through the woods. 
EXT. RAND'S FUNERAL - DAY 
The services are over. Eve, Allenby talk with the President and the First Lady. 
EVE It was very moving, Bobby - thank you so much... 
PRESIDENT We're all going to miss him, Eve... (glances around) ... Where's Mr. Gardiner? 
ALLENBY ... He walked off... 
EVE Chauncey is so sensitive... He was overcome with grief... 
PRESIDENT I can certainly understand that... 
FIRST LADY Of course... I'm so sorry for you, Eve... 
EVE Thank you, Nancy. 
FIRST LADY I'll call you soon. 
The President and First Lady head toward their limousine. 
