Joon: in that order? 
Benny: what happened between you and Mrs Smeal? 
Joon: she was given the fits of semi-precious metaphors. 
Benny: the woman’s a house keeper Joon, not an English professor. 
Joon: she moved things. 
Benny: she said you wandered off. Did you leave the house alone? 
Joon: define alone 
Benny: you know full well what I’m talking about. Listen, while im at work I cant be worried about whether or not your knocking another house keeper into early retirement. First it was Mrs Larkburg. 
Joon: a woman deeply and hygienically disturbed. Her hair smelled. 
Benny: but then it was Mrs Piltz. 
Joon: Piltz, the answers in the question. Let’s face it Benjamin, hiring house keepers is not your forte. 
Benny: Oh yeah, well until I do find another house keeper, you are going to stick close to the house, you understand? Now have some salad. Oh by the way, I want you to come with me to my poker game 
Joon: Benny 
Benny: come on, you’ll have a good timeThey travel to the poker game and Joon sees Sam in the tree. They arrive at the poker game 
Man: erm, wet belt buckle 
Mike: classical Greek martini shaker 
Benny: 6 turkey feather darts 
Mike: you’re a real pal Benny, I tell you what, I got a solution to your house keeper problems, you can have my room mates. 
Joon: oh that’s a terrific offer Benjamin. To save you from the retched chore of Smeal shopping. Those places are such drudgery aren’t they? Montgomery and Smeal, Smeals and Roebuck, Smeals ‘r’ us 
Benny: Joon. You got a roommate? When did you get a roommate? 
Mike: since last week. My cousin landed in town and my life has gone from heaven to hell in 7 days. 
Thomas: Just like the good lord intended 
Mike: yeah, 20 years old and he can’t even read. He spends all day polishing my plastic forks. 
Eric: what do you mean when you say he can’t read? You mean words? 
Mike: yeah, and he keeps me up all night watching stupid old movies. My works starting to suffer. 
Joon: you installed cable TV. 
Benny: Joon, would you please glue your sequins 
Joon: have we an internal sequin issue to deal with Benjamin? 
Benny: can we make this the last hand? Come on, come on, play cards. 
Eric: 2 tickets to tomorrow nights baseball game 
Benny: 1 pocket fisherman 
Thomas: fold 
Benny: do you ever stay in? 
Mike: a snorkel maskNext morning in Benny and Joon’s house. Joon is wearing a snorkel mask and makes a smoothie. She goes outside and holds up the traffic. 
Benny: she what? 
Waldo: oh, and the police will cooperate 
Benny: holy shit. Listen Jack, you want to go to the baseball game tonight, 
Jack: hey thanks Benny. 
Benny: box seats. Hello, Joon?Back at the house. Joon is painting. 
Benny: time for your medicine JoonBenny in his bedroom 
Benny: night SteveAt the garage 
Benny: oh hello, how’s it going? 
Girl: I appreciate the deal on the engine 
Benny: oh yeah, no problem. Is it running alright? 
Girl: yeah, it’s running great 
Benny: oh, good 
Girl: so can I erm, make it up to you with some dinner. 
Benny: some dinner? Erm you serious? 
Girl: yeah, dinner with you 
Benny: Erm, you know what I can’t. I mean I’d like to but I can’t 
Girl: ok 
Benny: ok StevieHe goes to feed his fish, but it is dead. He takes it to the bathroom and flushes it down the toilet. 
Outside Eric’s houseBenny: I mean I cant even keep a goldfish alive. What chance do I have with Joon? If something bad happened to her I’d, I’d never ever be able to forgive myself 
Eric: a group home is the right thing for her Benny. 
Benny: yeah, this is defiantly for her own good 
Eric: hey, it’s for both your own good. How much longer can you do this to your self? You’re life is literally passing you by 
Benny: you’re right. You’re right. What am I doing with myself? I spend my life working on cars and taking care of my sister. I cant even have a relationship without having to worry how Joon is going to fit in. 
Eric: you know, once you get settled in you can actually take a vacation. Travel a little. I can hold down the fort no problem. 
Benny: travel? Travel? 
Eric: Benny, there is a whole world out there man, I mean picture yourself on the open road, wind in the hair in the Alcamino. Highway stretching out b- what’s that? Up ahead? A lovely motorist. Stranded. Carburettor trouble. Better investigate. 
Benny: yeah right, I’m going to be stopping at a pay phone every 15 minutes to call Joon to see how she’s doing.At another poker game 
Mike: Ok lets see, Black Sabbath over there 
Thomas: you got that flash light? 
Mike: its not a flashlight. it turns out its a brush kind of thing. Hat 
Thomas: Where’s the batteries? 
Mike: you didn’t win any batteries. what are you talking about? 
Thomas: who gets the ice shaker? it goes on mine 
Mike: ok guys come one, hurry it up huh or we'll start without you 
Sam: oh my god. I’ve just been looking for my boyfriend. Have you seen him? He’s a cute guy with a little mole on his right cheek. 
Man: Ruthie one of your ghosts come back to haunt you? 
Sam: (screaming) oh Brad, Brad, Brad please don’t be dead. I never got a chance to tell you what you mean to me. Oh Brad please. Its you you’re you, Ruthie Melanie. Co-star of the prom queen mutilator with Dick Beebe. 
Ruthie: you saw that? 
Sam: he was mine, he was mine. No Sindy you’re sick. Sindy you need help, no Sindy, no, no, no! (pretends to stab himself) 
Benny and Joon’s house 
Sam looks around the room and sees Joon’s paintings. He puts his finger in the wet paint and lick’s him finger. 
Joon: don’t touch it 
Sam: its paint 
Joon: yes 
Sam: Kirk Douglas, Van Gough ear (makes a scissor action with his hand) 
Benny: these are yours. You’ll sleep here all right? Come on its late. Lets brush you’re teeth and hair. 
Joon: I can brush my own teeth Benjamin 
Benny: fine 
Joon: hair too 
Benny: perfect. Come on 
Sam: oh, oh Benny. Hey Benny. Thanks for the couch. Erm Mike made me sleep under the sink. 
Eric: hey 
Benny: this today? 
Eric. Yeah. So erm what did you do with the cousin? The bus station? The river? What? You throw him in the river? 
Benny: (laughs) no, I took him home 
Eric: you took him home? 
Benny: yeah 
Eric: to your house? 
Benny: yeah to my house 
Eric: what are you crazy? 
Benny: hey believe me its only temporary 
Eric: great, maybe he can tell Joon about the group home 
Benny: listen, if I’m going to do this group home thing I’ve got to figure out the best way to tell her, you know what I mean. Where’s Waldo? Is he not here yet? 
Eric: no 
Benny: all right that’s it I’m going to have a talk with him 
Eric: no your not 
Benny: yes I am. I’m calling him right now. What’s his phone number? 
Eric: 5550944 
Back in the house 
Sam is making grilled cheese sandwiches with an iron 
Joon: some cultures are defined by their relationship to cheese 
Benny: is that a fact? 
Joon is in bed and Benny walks in 
Joon: he can really cook cant he? 
Benny: uh-uh yeah. All for the grilled cheese I might of used the wool setting. 
Joon: that’s what I told him 
Benny: really? What did he use? 
Joon: rayon. Silk would have been too soggy. Cotton would 
Benny: would of burned it 
Joon: right. Fortunately he consulted me before giving it steam. I was four square against it. I wish he could be my new smeal. 
Joon hums a tune and they both start singing the words. It flashbacks to when they were kids and their parents died in a car crash. 
Benny: good night 
Joon: good night 
The next morning and Sam is writing a letter to him mum 
Joon: you need some help? Dear mum, I have departed Mikes with love and gratitude and am not living with Benny and Joon pearl, two magnificently devoted new friends. Benny’s pre-disposition to hyper tense Irish monologue is sub standing and he has given me a job as a domestic engineer and is pleased with my performance so far. Love Sam 
Sam; yeah. Do you like avocadoes? 
Joon: they’re a fruit you know. 
Sam: Ruthie, do you got any avocadoes? 
At Benny and Joon’s house 
Benny: Joon 
He looks outside and sees a car pull up. Ruthie, Sam and Joon get out of the car. 
Joon: you’re very pretty when you’re off work Ruthie 
Ruthie: thank you. Maybe I should quit my job huh? 
Benny: where the hell have you two been? 
Ruthie: oh don’t worry, they were with me. We were just running some errands. 
Benny: oh how you doing? 
Ruthie: Hi 
Benny; running errands? You ran an errand? 
Joon: yes I did, I ran an errand. 
Joon hands Benny two new fish 
Benny: oh look 
Joon; they are both named Steven. One with a V and one with a PH. 
Pulling up outside Ruthie’s house 
Ruthie: here it is, right here 
Benny; 2nd job huh/ 
Ruthie: yeah got to make those ends meet you know 
Benny: this is just how I imagined your place. Well 
Ruthie: you want to come in? Or you want to 
Benny: oh no I’ll come in, for a minute. Whoa! What is this? Nice porch. 
Ruthie: pretty nice fish Joon gave you 
Benny: oh yeah, those fish. Yeah I was shocked I was… Nice fish, I mean yeah 
Ruthie: I never had a fish 
Benny: what? Not even as a kid? 
Ruthie: no, under privileged childhood I guess 
Benny: down right un-American if you ask me 
Ruthie: yeah 
Benny: you can have one of mine if you want 
Ruthie: no I couldn’t possibly. They were a gift 
Benny: but you know you could borrow it. But you know we could share it. Like joint custody. You could take it on the weekends you know. What is this? 
Benny: right exactly 
Ruthie: don’t think I’ve ever asked anybody the time before and it be right on the nose 
Benny: (laughs) that’s weird isn’t it? Its right on the nose 
Ruthie leans over and kissed Benny 
Ruthie: do you, do you want to come in for a while? I erm, I got that beer waiting for you 
Benny: erm you know what? I should probably go 
Ruthie: ok 
Benny: listen erm can I tell you something? 
Ruthie: what? 
Benny: erm you see my life is just real complicated and 
Ruthie: give me a break Benny I just offered you a bear ok 
She gets out of the car and runs inside 
Benny: no 
In the park the next day. Sam, Benny and Joon are sat on a rug. 
Joon: why don’t we pick up Ruthie and get some ice cream? 
Sam: yeah lets get her 
Benny: no 
Sam: no no 
Benny: thank you 
Sam: no thank you. bye bye 
Benny tries to do the trick with the bench that Sam did. 
Back at the house 
Sam and Joon are sat on the sofa and kiss. 
Sam: Joon 
Joon: what? 
Sam: I, I love you 
Joon: me too. don’t tell Benny 
Sam: Ok 
Joon hears Benny coming in so gets up and goes to her bedroom 
Next morning, Benny is in the shower 
Benny: did you see the way you had everybody in the palm of you’re hand? Huh? You’ve got this gift and you shouldn’t ignore it you should be out there doing something with it. 
Sam: like what? 
Benny: I don’t know all I know is that they were saying this guy is something else. You’re special. You’re not some regular schmoe like the rest of us who do it because we have to do it. You’re blessed 
Sam: Benny, 
Benny: hi 
Ruthie: is my car ready? 
Benny: how you doing? Oh come on in, come on in. Erm listen erm I want to apologise for the other night. It came out all wrong 
Ruthie: no no its ok 
Benny: no I do 
Ruthie: how’s my car? 
Benny: oh its running great. Your fuel pump was shot so I threw in a new one. Its running great 
Ruthie: how much do I owe you? 
Benny: I’ll tell you what. Just gibe me $30 for the part and I’m not going to charge you for the labour. All right? Ok? 
Ruthie: yes 
Benny: listen if you’re not doin’ anything later I just lined up this thing for Sam 
Ruthie: what thing? 
Benny: well its like an audition. Maybe his chance to make a living at all this crazy stuff that he does. Who knows? Maybe he could travel, play clubs. I don’t know, you know? So if you’re not doing anything later and you feel like 
Ruthie: I don’t know Benny. I got food to deliver, apartments to rent. My life’s pretty complicated right now, you know? Thanks. Bye 
At Benny and Joon’s house 
Benny: we’ll lay out the whole routine right after dinner. You know what you could start with? Remember the role thing you were doing at the diner? 
Joon: who died and made you Ed McMahon? 
Benny: yeah? Well you’re crazy! 
Joon: I am not crazy 
Benny; you see what we’ve come to? You see? 
He gets out the group home leaflet 
Joon: I hate you, I hate you, I hate you, I hate you, I hate you, I hate you 
In Joon’s bedroom 
Benny: can I get you anything? 
Joon: tapioca 
Benny: tapioca? Ok. Anything on it? 
Joon: raisins 
Benny: ok 
He goes downstairs and checks the fridge. There is none left so he goes out to get some. Sam is sat in the tree outside and Joon burns a picture of her and benny when they were children. Sam goes to the door and Joon goes out to him 
Joon: Hi 
Benny arrives at Ruthie’s house 
Benny: hi. How you doin’? 
Ruthie: you’re out late 
Benny: yeah. Listen… do you have any tapioca? 
Sam: sir? Sir! Stop the bus! Please stop the bus! 
Benny is driving back fromRuthie’s and he sees the bus stopped. An ambulance arrives and the crew climb aboard the bus 
Joon: I don’t want to talk to you 
Sam: Joon 
AM1: all righty. You want to step out? 
Sam: yeah ok, ok 
AM1: how you doin’ hon.? 
Joon: you think I don’t know who you are. I know just who you are. So just leave, leave. Leave! don’t touch me! don’t touch me! 
They grab her and put her in the ambulance. Benny runs to the front of the crowd of people 
Benny: Joon, Joon! 
He sees Sam sat in the ambulance 
At the mental hospital 
Benny: look I a going to see my sister. Would you please tell me her room number? 
Woman: please sir, just come back in the morning 
Benny: let me talk to her god damn doctor 
In the social workers room 
SW: I’m sorry. She doesn’t want any visitors. Not you or anyone else 
Sam: Audrey hepburn 
Lady: yeah Sam. Thanks a lot 
Sam: have a nice day. Can I help you? 
Benny: yeah I hope so. 
At the mental hospital 
Sam and Benny are in a room. Thomas walks in 
Benny: Thomas, how is she? Tell me the truth 
Thomas: she’s been better Benny 
Benny: well you’ve got to tell me what room number she’s in 
Thomas: 335. But don’t even think about it Benny. it’s a closed ward. No visitors 
Sam: no we’ve got to find Joon. Please 
Benny: Thomas you’ve got to get us in there, to see her 
Thomas: its impossible Benny 
Benny: what do you mean its impossible? Listen I just need 2 minutes with her 
Thomas: I’ll be fired 
Benny: Thomas, I’m begging you as a friend 
Thomas: I’d love to help out but Garvey’s going to be in there to check on her soon. My hands are tied. My hands are tied! 
Joon: you’d let me live in an apartment? 
Benny: that’s up to you. I’m through making those decisions for you. Listen I… I’m sorry I was such a jerk. And about Sam. I was wrong, dead wrong. 
Joon: I scared him away 
Benny: no you didn’t. he’s here 
Joon: he is not 
Benny: he is. He got me in here. He’s somewhere in the building. 
Joon: he is not. You’d never let me have him. God. Why do you hate me so much? 
Benny: I don’t hate you 
Joon: you just need me to be sick 
The social worker enters the waiting room and goes over to the desk. 
SW: Juniper Pearl’s chart please. Thank you 
Thomas sees the men carrying Sam away 
Thomas: hey wait! Wally! Wait! Wait! Wally put him down. He’s mine. I’ve been looking for him 
Man1: you sure? 
Thomas: yeah I’ll take care of him. Sam you cant be in here 
Sam: where’s Joon’s room? 
Thomas: come on 
Joon: I don’t know exactly what I want. I do know… that I am tired of everyone telling me what to do 
Outside 
Thomas: Sam come down. don’t touch that 
Sam winds up the window cleaners hoist 
Thomas: Sam leave that. I’m begging you. 
In Joon’s room 
SW: Joon, we want what’s best for you 
Joon: I know that 
She sees Sam swinging across the window 
Joon: I 
Outside 
Thomas: Sam come down now. Sam you’re going to get in trouble 
Inside 
Joon: I think I want to try living in my own apartment 
Benny looks outside and sees Sam. The social worker looks outside but doesn’t see anything 
SW: hmm, I don’t know 
Outside 
