"BIG FISH" 
Written by 
John August 
Based on the novel by 
Daniel Wallace 
Final Production Draft 
This is a Southern story, full of lies and fabrications, but truer for their inclusion. 
FADE IN: 
A RIVER. 
We're underwater, watching a fat catfish swim along. 
This is The Beast. 
EDWARD (V.O.) There are some fish that cannot be caught. It's not that they're faster or stronger than other fish. They're just touched by something extra. Call it luck. Call it grace. One such fish was The Beast. 
The Beast's journey takes it past a dangling fish hook, baited with worms. Past a tempting lure, sparkling in the sun. Past a swiping bear claw. The Beast isn't worried. 
EDWARD (V.O.) By the time I was born, he was already a legend. He'd taken more hundred- dollar lures than any fish in Alabama. Some said that fish was the ghost of Henry Walls, a thief who'd drowned in that river 60 years before. Others claimed he was a lesser dinosaur, left over from the Cretaceous period. 
INT. WILL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT (1973) 
WILL BLOOM, AGE 3, listens wide-eyed as his father EDWARD BLOOM, 40's and handsome, tells the story. In every gesture, Edward is bigger than life, describing each detail with absolute conviction. 
EDWARD I didn't put any stock into such speculation or superstition. All I knew was I'd been trying to catch that fish since I was a boy no bigger than you. (closer) And on the day you were born, that was the day I finally caught him. 
EXT. CAMPFIRE - NIGHT (1977) 
A few years later, and Will sits with the other INDIAN GUIDES as Edward continues telling the story to the tribe. 
EDWARD Now, I'd tried everything on it: worms, lures, peanut butter, peanut butter-and-cheese. But on that day I had a revelation: if that fish was the ghost of a thief, the usual bait wasn't going to work. I would have to use something he truly desired. 
Edward points to his wedding band, glinting in the firelight. 
LITTLE BRAVE (confused) Your finger? 
Edward slips his ring off. 
EDWARD Gold. 
While the other boys are rapt with attention, Will looks bored. He's heard this story before. 
EDWARD I tied my ring to the strongest line they made -- strong enough to hold up a bridge, they said, if just for a few minutes -- and I cast upriver. 
INT. BLOOM FRONT HALL - NIGHT (1987) 
Edward is chatting up Will's pretty DATE to the homecoming dance. She is enjoying the story, but also the force of Edward's charisma. He's hypnotizing. 
EDWARD (CONT'D) The Beast jumped up and grabbed it before the ring even hit the water. And just as fast, he snapped clean through that line. 
WILL, now 17 with braces, is fuming and ready to leave. His mother SANDRA -- from whom he gets his good looks and practicality -- stands with him at the door. 
EDWARD You can see my predicament. My wedding ring, the symbol of fidelity to my wife, soon to be the mother of my child, was now lost in the gut of an uncatchable fish. 
ON WILL AND SANDRA 
WILL (low but insistent) Make him stop. 
His mother pats him sympathetically, then adjusts his tie. 
WILL'S DATE What did you do? 
EDWARD I followed that fish up-river and down-river for three days and three nights, until I finally had him boxed in. 
Will regards his father with exasperated contempt. 
EDWARD With these two hands, I reached in and snatched that fish out of the river. I looked him straight in the eye. And I made a remarkable discovery. 
INT. TINY PARIS RESTAURANT (LA RUE 14°) - NIGHT (1998) 
WILL, now 28, sits with his gorgeous bride JOSEPHINE. This is their wedding reception, crowded with their friends and family. They should be joyful, but Will is furious. 
Edward has the floor, ostensibly for a toast. The room is cozy and drunk. 
EDWARD This fish, the Beast. The whole time we were calling it a him, when in fact it was a her. It was fat with eggs, and was going to lay them any day. 
Over near the doorway, we spot Sandra, just returned from the restrooms. She looks gorgeous. She couldn't be any happier if this were her own wedding. 
EDWARD Now, I was in a situation. I could gut that fish and get my ring back, but doing so I would be killing the smartest catfish in the Ashton River, soon to be mother of a hundred others. 
Will can't take any more. Josephine tries to hold him back, but he gets up and leaves. Edward doesn't even notice. 
EDWARD Did I want to deprive my soon-to-be- born son the chance to catch a fish like this of his own? This lady fish and I, well, we had the same destiny. 
WILL (V.O.) In telling the story of my father's life, it's impossible to separate the fact from the fiction, the man from the myth. The best I can do is to tell it the way he told me. 
We LOOK DOWN at the river, where Edward's reflection is caught in the dark water. As the water ripples past, something changes. 
Sure enough, as we LOOK UP again, it's a younger EDWARD BLOOM, 20's, staring into the water. He's not just handsome, not just charming. It's as if all the forces of the natural world had conspired to create him. 
WILL (V.O.) It doesn't always make sense, and most of it never happened. 
Suddenly, this Edward thrusts both hands into the water, grabbing hold of 
THE BEAST. 
He brings the catfish up to his face. Looks it right in the eye. A beat, then the Beast spits out Edward's gold ring. 
WILL (V.O.) But that's what kind of story this is. 
Smiling, Edward takes the ring, then throws the Beast back into the water with a splash. 
TITLE OVER: 
BIG FISH 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY 
Young Dr. Bennett stands between the Wife's legs. She's flustered and sweating, but the doctor has a comforting bedside manner... 
YOUNG DR. BENNETT Now, Mrs. Bloom, I'll need you to give me one good push. On three. One... 
Suddenly, we hear a POP as a slimy mass of human being rockets into the doctor's unprepared hands. Bennett tries to hold tight, but the infant is slippery like a fish. It shoots up into air. 
The NURSES and the Husband try to grab the baby, but no one can hold it. As the newborn sails upward TOWARDS CAMERA, we can see a GIGGLING SMILE on its face. 
As it falls, the newborn knocks over a tray, which provides it a ramp to slide right out of the room. Everyone races after it. 
INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY 
Bursting through the doors -- 
YOUNG DR. BENNETT Grab that baby! 
A NURSE finally scoops up the slippery baby. Everyone lets out a collective sigh of relief. 
WILL (V.O.) My father's birth would set the pace for his unlikely life. No longer than most men's, but larger. And as strange as his stories got, the endings were always the most surprising of all. 
INT. HALF-DARK PARIS APARTMENT - (PRESENT) DAY 
Over the sound of rain, a phone RINGS on a chair. By the tone of the ring, we know we're not in the U.S. -- it has that insistent European sound. 
As it keeps RINGING, we look to see the apartment is mostly empty, just a few half-unpacked boxes. A cradle is still in its carton. 
KEYS in the lock. LAUGHTER in the hallway. The door swings open to reveal a drenched Will (29) carrying four sacks of groceries, the bottoms collapsing from the rain. His wife Josephine (28) pushes past him to get the phone. 
JOSEPHINE Allo oui? 
Will begins stripping out of his wet clothes, each layer unleashing a new drizzle. He plays it up, trying to get a reaction out of Josephine. 
JOSEPHINE (on phone) Yes, he's here. 
She hands the phone to Will, concerned. 
JOSEPHINE It's your mother. 
Half-stripped, Will takes the phone. This won't be good news. 
WILL (on phone) Hi. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. 
As Josephine takes off her rain coat, we see she is very, very pregnant. She listens carefully to Will's side of the conversation, trying to gauge how bad the news is. 
WILL (CONT'D) What does Dr. Bennett say? Okay. No, sure, let me talk to him. I'll wait. 
He covers the mouthpiece. Looks over to Josephine. 
JOSEPHINE It's bad. 
WILL It's more than they thought. They're going to stop chemo. 
JOSEPHINE You need to go. 
WILL Probably tonight. 
A beat. 
JOSEPHINE I'm going with you. 
WILL You don't have to. 
JOSEPHINE (a simple fact) I'm going with you. 
INT. AIR FRANCE 747 - NIGHT 
As the plane continues boarding, a STEWARDESS recites the welcome spiel in French. Will has a window seat in coach. Josephine sits beside him, putting on hand lotion. 
He judges her belly. 
DR. BENNETT You're seven months. 
JOSEPHINE (impressed) To the day. 
He leans close to her, whispering in her ear... 
DR. BENNETT It's a boy. 
She smiles, surprised but not doubting. Will looks over -- what did he say? Josephine shakes her head. 
Back to the main subject... 
SANDRA You don't think he looks any worse. 
DR. BENNETT No. I would say he's the same. 
And in the silence that follows, a lot is said. It wasn't the upbeat reply Sandra was hoping for. 
WILL Can I see him? 
DR. BENNETT Absolutely. Be good for you to talk to him. 
A moment of awkwardness -- everyone here knows they haven't spoken in years. 
Sandra hands Will a squat can of Ensure from the case on the counter. 
SANDRA Get him to drink one of these. He won't, but tell him he has to. 
INT. FOYER - DAY 
Coming out from the kitchen, Will slowly climbs the stairs. They CREAK with every step. 
The wall is filled with family photos, happier times. Most of the pictures are of Will, starting when he was an infant and ending at his wedding. As he climbs the stairs, we can see him growing up with every step. 
INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY 
A crack of sunlight spills around the half-open door at the end of the hallway. Will walks towards it, running a hand along the wallpaper. 
Almost at the door, he stops for a beat. Gets his breath. Then goes inside. 
INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY 
Edward Bloom, 61, lies asleep on the bed. Although he's not the vibrant man we've seen before, it's not as bad we feared. The illness has been quick, and left him largely intact. 
There are no I.V.'s, no monitors, nothing. 
Coming up to the bed -- 
WILL Dad? 
Edward cracks open an eye, a beat before he focuses. He tries to say something, but no words come out. 
He looks over at a pitcher on the nightstand. Will pours him a glass of water, helping him hold it to his parched lips. 
Finished, Edward sets down the glass by himself. A very long, tense beat. Will almost speaks again to fill the silence. 
Finally... 
EDWARD You -- (he points) -- are in for a surprise. 
WILL Am I? 
EDWARD Having a kid changes everything. I mean, there's the diapers and the burping and the midnight feedings... 
WILL Did you do any of that? 
EDWARD No, but I hear it's terrible. Then you spend years trying to corrupt and mislead this child, fill its head with nonsense and still it turns out perfectly fine. 
WILL You think I'm up for it? 
EDWARD You learned from the best. 
Will doesn't rise to the challenge. A beat, then he remembers the can of Ensure. Holds it up. Edward recoils. 
WILL Just drink half the can. I'll tell her you drank the whole thing. Everyone wins. 
A beat, then Edward rolls his eyes. Fine. Will cracks open the can, finding a straw on the nightstand. 
EDWARD People needn't worry so much. It's not my time yet. This isn't how I go. 
WILL Really. 
EDWARD Truly. I saw it in The Eye. 
WILL The Old Lady by the swamp. 
EDWARD She was a witch. 
WILL No, she was old and probably senile. Maybe schizophrenic. 
EDWARD (V.O.) Truth is, no one quite knew what was wrong. Most times, a person grows up gradually. I found myself in a hurry. 
INT. YOUNG EDWARD'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Young Edward lies in bed, his limbs connected to various pulleys and levers to support his weight. He has a dozen encyclopedias around him, and another dozen on the floor. 
EDWARD (V.O.) My muscles couldn't keep up with my bones, and my bones couldn't keep up with my body's ambition. So I spent the better part of three years confined to my bed, with the World Book Encyclopedia being my only means of exploration. I had made it all the way to the "G's," hoping to find an answer to my gigantificationism, when I uncovered an article about the common goldfish. 
INSERT: The encyclopedia article, complete with drawings. 
YOUNG EDWARD (reading) "Kept in a small bowl, the goldfish will remain small. With more space, the fish can grow double, triple, or quadruple its size." 
Young Edward thinks this through. 
EDWARD (V.O.) It occurred to me then, that perhaps the reason for my growth was that I was intended for larger things. After all, a giant man can't have an ordinary-sized life. 
EXT. BASEBALL FIELD - DAY 
The CRACK of a bat announces the game-winning home run. The crowd CHEERS the swing, and especially the batter as he rounds the bases. 
Although we've seen him briefly before, this is our first real exposure to GROWN-UP EDWARD, who we'll follow from roughly the ages of 18 to 30. 
EDWARD (V.O.) As soon as my bones had settled in their adult configuration, I set upon my plan to make a bigger place for myself in Ashton. 
EXT. SCHOOL FIELDS - DAY 
SINGLE SHOTS: Football hero Edward leads his team to victory. On the sidelines, a PRETTY GIRL admits the name of her secret love: 
GIRL Edward Bloom! 
The other GIRLS SQUEAL in agreement. Don Price looks over, glowers. 
EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY 
SINGLE SHOT: A lawnmower ROARS along the grass. We LOOK UP to see who's pushing it, but it's not Edward. It's one of his teenage EMPLOYEES. 
Edward is back at the truck, which is painted to read, "Bloom Landscaping." He has workers on every lawn. 
He signs an autograph for an ADMIRING CUB SCOUT. 
INT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY 
Edward takes an impossible shot at the buzzer from the other end of the court. Naturally, he makes it, winning the game. 
As the crowd goes wild for Edward, Don Price is the only teammate who doesn't mob him. 
EXT. TOWN - DAY 
Edward carries a dog out of a burning house. 
INT. SCIENCE FAIR - DAY 
Edward wins a blue ribbon for his invention, a machine labelled "Perpetual Motion." He and the JUDGE pose for a photograph. A FLASH. 
Pissed, Don Price throws his crappy lima bean plants in the trash. 
INT. HIGH SCHOOL STAGE - DAY 
A dashingly handsome Edward leads the CAST out for a curtain call. He's the star of the show. Off to the side, we see Don Price is the ass-end of a horse costume. 
Edward soaks in his applause, smiling and gracious. 
EXT. GRADUATION STAGE - DAY 
Edward accepts his diploma. The PRINCIPAL hugs him tight. 
EDWARD (V.O.) I was the biggest thing Ashton had ever seen. Until one day, a stranger arrived. 
EXT. FARM - DAY 
As two FARMERS shake their heads, we REVERSE to a show a massive hole punched through the side of a barn. It's roughly the shape of man, but no human could be that large. 
EXT. SHEEP PEN - DAY 
Two fat ewes look up, a shadow falling across them. They BLEAT in panic as 
TWO OVERSIZED HANDS 
reach in and scoop them up. Their protests continue as they're carried away, one under each arm. We still haven't seen the full stranger. 
EXT. COURT HOUSE - DAY 
A MOB of about 50 have gathered, many of them with shotguns. Amid the crowd we see Don Price. 
SHARECROPPER He ate an entire cornfield! 
LITTLE GIRL He ate my dog! 
HOT-BLOODED SHOTGUN TOTER If you ain't gonna stop him Mayor, we will! 
MAYOR I won't have mob violence in this town. Now, has someone tried talking to him? 
KARL You're just trying to get me to leave, aren't you? That's why they sent you here. 
EDWARD What's your name, Giant? 
KARL Karl. 
EDWARD Mine's Edward. And truthfully, I do want you to leave, Karl. But I want to leave with you. (closer) You think this town is too small for you, well, it's too small for a man of my ambition. I can't see staying here a day longer. 
KARL You don't like it? 
EDWARD I love every square inch of it. But I can feel the edges closing in on me. A man's life can only grow to a certain size in a place like this. (beat) So what do you say? Join me? 
Karl thinks a moment. Then -- 
KARL Okay. 
EDWARD Okay. 
They shake on it. 
EDWARD Now first, we gotta get you ready for the city. 
EXT. RIVER - DAY 
IN A SINGLE SHOT, Karl cuts his hair with hedge clippers, while Edward cuts up a surplus army tent to make him a shirt. 
EXT. MAIN STREET OF ASHTON - DAY 
Spirits buoyed by the high school MARCHING BAND, all the good CITIZENS of Ashton are gathered to see off Edward and Karl. 
There's a few tears amid the familiar faces. 
MAYOR (loudly, for the crowd) Edward Bloom, first son of Ashton, it's with a heavy heart we see you go. But take with you this Key to the City, and know that any time you want to come back, all our doors are open to you. 
Edward ducks a bit so the Mayor can put the key around his neck. The crowd CHEERS. And with that, Edward and Karl start walking, waving as they go. 
Only DON PRICE, smoking on the corner, isn't sad to see Edward go. He crushes his cigarette under his heel. He wishes he could crush Edward. 
Many of the townfolk come onto the street to hug Edward or shake his hand. 
EDWARD (V.O.) That afternoon as I left Ashton, everyone seemed to have advice. 
VARIOUS TOWNFOLK Find yourself a nice girl! Don't trust anyone in Kentucky! Watch your pride, Edward Bloom! 
EDWARD (V.O.) But there was one person whose counsel I held above all others. 
As the crowd parts, he finds himself face to face with 
THE OLD WOMAN. 
The ruckus slows and quiets, as if a strange spell has been cast. She motions for Edward to lean down, so she can whisper something to him. Although we're VERY CLOSE, we can't hear her voice. 
EDWARD (V.O.) She said that the biggest fish in the river gets that way by never being caught. 
The advice only succeeds in confusing Edward. 
EDWARD (to the Old Woman) Okay. Thanks. 
Edward and Karl keep walking. The Old Woman shuffles off, somehow knowing her advice will go unheeded. 
KARL What did she say? 
EDWARD Beats me. 
EXT. ROAD - DAY 
We TILT UP from the road to reveal Edward and Karl walking out of Ashton. Each wears a backpack with all his earthly possessions. 
EDWARD (V.O.) There were two roads out of Ashton, a new one which was paved, and an older one that wasn't. People didn't use the old road anymore, and it had developed the reputation of being haunted. 
Edward and Karl come to a bend, where the paved road veers left and an overgrown dirt road runs straight. The old road is blocked with signs and warnings of danger. 
EDWARD (V.O.) Since I had no intention of ever returning to Ashton, this seemed as good a time as any to find out what lay down that old road. 
Karl looks at the dirt road, wary. 
KARL You know anyone's who's taken it? 
EDWARD That poet, Norther Winslow did. He was going to Paris, France. He must have liked it, because no one ever heard from him again. (beat) Tell you what. You take the other way and I'll cut through here. Meet you on the far side. 
A little paranoid... 
KARL You're not trying to run away? 
EDWARD Just to be sure, you can take my pack. 
Karl perks up, even though it means more for him to carry. 
EXT. DIRT ROAD - DAY 
The road is overgrown, but not altogether creepy. The sun is still shining, and the birds still CHIRPING. 
Edward stops dancing. A beat, then he heads for the edge of the crowd. Beamen is there, with Jenny on his shoulders. 
EDWARD I have to leave. Tonight. 
BEAMEN Why? 
EDWARD This town is everything a man could ask for. And if I were to end up here, I'd consider myself lucky. But the fact is, I'm not ready to end up anywhere. 
BEAMEN No one's ever left. 
JENNY How are you gonna make it without your shoes? 
EDWARD I suspect it will hurt a lot. 
And with that, Edward walks down Main Street. The townspeople stop dancing, disbelieving, some shaking their heads. 
Poor Edward Bloom's gone crazy. 
BEAMEN (calling after him) You won't find a better place! 
EDWARD I don't expect to. 
Jenny runs to him. She'd tackle him if she could. 
JENNY Promise me you'll come back. 
EDWARD I promise. Someday. When I'm really supposed to. 
It's not good enough, but it will have to do. Edward keeps walking. 
EXT. THE DARK FOREST - NIGHT 
VARIOUS SHOTS: Edward negotiates the thorns in his bare feet. It's horrible. Almost unendurable. 
And then it gets worse. 
The trees ahead are moving. At first, it just seems to be the wind blowing the branches, but as we hear the wood CRACKING and GROANING, there's no mistaking it: they're trying to block him. 
Snake-like WHITE ROOTS shoot out of the ground, grabbing for his ankles. He leaps up, kicking off one tree trunk to grab another one's branches. He swings off, lands and rolls. Now all the trees are moving to block him, their dark shapes towering over him in the flashes of LIGHTNING. 
EDWARD (V.O.) As difficult as it was to reach Spectre, I was fated to get there eventually. After all, no man can avoid reaching the end of his life. 
As he ducks under branches, the chain holding the Key to the City gets caught. He's almost strangled, but the chain finally breaks. The silver key disappears into the mud. 
Scrambling forward, he looks for a way out. But the trees have encircled him, their spiky crowns bending down to crush him. 
He SCREAMS up at the night, until his breath is gone. 
EDWARD And then I realized, this wasn't the end of my life. 
With a sudden calm... 
EDWARD (aloud) This isn't how I die. 
Another lightning FLASH, and suddenly the trees are back where they've always been. Edward is lying shoeless and torn in a muddy puddle, staring up at the rain. And LAUGHING. 
EXT. THE ROAD - DAY 
His bare foot steps onto asphalt. 
A DEEP VOICE Friend! 
Edward turns to see 
KARL 
to his right, coming down the larger, paved road. 
KARL What happened to your shoes? 
Edward looks down at his muddy, bloody feet. 
EDWARD They got ahead of me. 
With that, the men start walking down the larger road. 
CROSSFADE TO: 
INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Edward and Will sit at opposite ends of the table, with Sandra and Josephine in the middle. Although Edward has a small plate of food in front of him, he hasn't touched it. He's exhausted from the trip downstairs, but determined to maintain the family dinner ritual. 
The other three eat awkwardly, each CLINK and SCRAPE of a knife or fork resonating. Will finally breaks the silence. 
WILL I don't know if you've seen it, but Josephine has some photos in the most recent Newsweek. 
SANDRA Really! That's wonderful. 
JOSEPHINE I spent a week in Morocco for the story. It was incredible. 
SANDRA We'll have to pick up a copy. 
CASHIER Never seen her before. Pretty, though. 
INT. GUEST BEDROOM - NIGHT 
A portable fan quietly WHIRRS in the corner. Turned low, the RADIO on the nightstand is playing a call-in AM sports show, just a wash of background chatter. Edward lies asleep on his back. 
At the window, Josephine quietly lowers the shade. She reaches over Edward to switch off the radio. He stirs from the silence -- he wasn't fully asleep -- and sees Josephine stretched over him. 
EDWARD (playfully lecherous) Hello. 
She smiles. 
JOSEPHINE Hi. How are you feeling? 
EDWARD I was dreaming. 
JOSEPHINE What were you dreaming about? 
He tries to recollect, but it's already gone. Josephine motions, is it okay for her to sit on the bed? He nods. 
EDWARD I don't usually remember unless they're especially portentous. You know what that word means, portentous? 
She shakes her head. 
EDWARD Means when you dream about something that's going to happen. (beat, gathering) Like one night, I had a dream where this crow came and told me, "Your Aunt is going to die." I was so scared I woke up my parents. They told me it was just a dream, to go back to bed. But the next morning, my Aunt Stacy was dead. 
JOSEPHINE That's terrible. 
EDWARD Terrible for her, but think about me, young boy with that kind of power. Wasn't three weeks later that the crow came back to me in a dream and said, "Your Grampa is going to die." Well, I ran right back to my parents. My father said, no, Gramps is fine, but I could see there was trepidation. And true enough, that next morning my Grampa was dead. 
He sits up a bit in bed, his strength returning. 
EDWARD For the next couple weeks, I didn't have another dream. Until one night the crow came back and said, "Your Daddy is going to die." (beat) Well, I didn't know what to do. But finally I told my father. And he said not to worry, but I could tell he was rattled. That next day, he wasn't himself, always looking around, waiting for something to drop on his head. Because the crow didn't tell how it was going to happen, just those words: your Daddy is going to die. Well, he went into town early and was gone for a long time. And when he finally came back, he looked terrible, like he was waiting for the axe to fall all day. He said to my mother, "Good God. I just had the worst day of my life." (beat) "You think you've had a bad day," she said. "This morning the milkman dropped dead on the porch!" Josephine smiles, a half-laugh, which gets him smiling too. 
A long beat. Then, deadpan... 
EDWARD Because see, my mother was banging the milkman. 
JOSEPHINE No, I understand. 
EDWARD He was slipping her a little extra cream. 
She nods, a bit more of a laugh. 
EDWARD He was filling her basket. He was making deliveries around back. 
As Edward continues, she can't help but laugh harder, especially as the metaphors get more vulgar. 
EDWARD He was buttering her rolls. Pumping her churn. Splashing milk in her box. 
JOSEPHINE Stop. 
EDWARD They were squeezing the cheese. Clanking the bottles. Licking the popsicle. 
She's starting to cry from laughing. 
EDWARD Cracking the eggs and making an omelet. 
With that, he stops. She regains her composure. 
EDWARD Spooning the sherbet. 
JOSEPHINE (interrupting) Can I take your picture? 
EDWARD You don't need a picture. Just look up handsome in the dictionary. 
JOSEPHINE Please? 
He rolls his eyes, why not. 
Josephine leaves, heading down the hall to get her camera. We STAY WITH Edward in bed. 
JOSEPHINE (O.S.) I have photos from the wedding to show you. There's a great one of you and my father. I had an extra print made. 
Edward grimaces, a flash of pain. Around others, he's hiding how much it hurts, but alone we can see how bad it is. 
He controls his breathing, trying to push through it. 
JOSEPHINE I want to see pictures of your wedding. I've never seen any. 
She returns with her camera. Edward smiles, doing a good job masking the pain. 
EDWARD That's because we didn't have a wedding. Your mother-in-law was never supposed to marry me. She was engaged to somebody else. 
JOSEPHINE (loading film) I never knew. 
EDWARD Will never told you that? (she shakes her head) Probably just as well. He would have told it all wrong anyway. All the facts and none of the flavor. 
JOSEPHINE Oh, so this is a tall tale? 
EDWARD Well, it's not a short one. 
CROSSFADE TO: 
THE EMPTY LOT 
Colossus is thumbing for a ride. The last pickup truck stops and lets him climb in back. 
As the truck pulls out, it passes a dejected Edward. He'll never find that girl, the love of his life. 
INT. BIG-TOP - NIGHT 
Amos leans over so Karl can sign a contract on his back. He spots Edward walking back into the tent. 
AMOS Hey kid! Your friend just made himself a star. 
EDWARD That's great. 
Amos hands off the contract to a CLOWN. 
(INTRODUCING) My attorney, Mr. Soggybottom. 
EDWARD Good to meet you. 
Mr. Soggybottom HONKS his horn, then waddles off. 
AMOS What's the matter with you, kid? I haven't seen a customer so depressed since the elephant sat on that farmer's wife. (beat) Get it? "Depressed?" 
Karl chuckles. 
AMOS See! The big guy likes it. 
EDWARD I just saw the woman I'm going to marry, I know it. But then I lost her. 
AMOS Tough break. Most men have to get married before they lose their wives. 
EDWARD (with absolute conviction) I'm going to spend the rest of my life looking for her. That or die alone. 
AMOS Jesus, kid. (realizing) Let me guess. Real pretty, blonde hair, blue hat? 
EDWARD Yes! 
AMOS I know her uncle. Friends of the family. 
EDWARD Who is she? Where does she live? 
AMOS Kid. Don't waste your time. She's out of your league. 
As Amos starts to walk away, Edward hurries to catch up with him. Karl follows as well. 
EDWARD What do you mean? You don't even know me. 
AMOS Sure I do. You were hot shit back in Hickville, but here in the real world, you got squat. You don't have a plan. You don't have a job. You don't have anything but the clothes on your back. 
EDWARD I've got a whole backpack full of clothes! 
He points to the bleachers, where no backpack is to be found. 
EDWARD (realizing) Someone stole my backpack. 
AMOS Kid, you were a big fish in a small pond. This here is the ocean, and you're drowning. Take my advice and go back to Puddleville. You'll be happy there. 
Getting in front of Amos, Edward stops him. 
EDWARD Wait. You said I don't have a plan. I do. I'm going to find that girl and marry her and spend the rest of my life with her. 
Amos smiles, amused. 
EDWARD I don't have a job, but I would have a job if you gave me one. And I may not have much, but I have more determination than any man you're ever going to meet. 
AMOS Sorry, kid. I don't do charity. 
EDWARD I'll work night and day, and you won't have to pay me. You just have to tell me who she is. 
Amos takes a long look at him. Ultimately, there's no way he can say no. He shrugs. What the hell. 
AMOS Every month you work for me, I'll tell you one thing about her. That's my final offer. 
Edward shakes Amos's hand before he can retract the offer. We move into a MONTAGE: 
INT. BIG TOP CENTER RING - NIGHT 
CLOSE ON Edward, smiling nervously. His head is tilted to the side, and as we PULL BACK, we see why: he's holding it in a MASSIVE LION's open mouth. The beast's sharp teeth are just poking his skin. If the lion so much as flinches, Edward is dead. 
The CROWD applauds, which makes the lion antsy. Which makes Edward antsier. 
EDWARD (V.O.) From that moment on, I did everything Mr. Calloway asked, and a lot of things he didn't. I'd go three days without stopping to eat, and four days without sleeping. 
EXT. THE HYDRA - DAY 
His eyes droopy from lack of sleep, Edward mans the whirling amusement park ride. 
EDWARD (V.O.) The only thing that kept me going was the promise of meeting the girl who would be my wife. 
Seeing an opportunity, Edward throws the stick as far as he can. The dog bounds after it, 
SMASHING DOWN THREE CARS. 
It returns a beat later with the flaming stick, which it drops at Edward's feet. Its tail whips back and forth. 
EDWARD It was that night I discovered that most things you consider evil or wicked are simply lonely, and lacking in the social niceties. 
Edward throws the stick again. The dog takes off in a new direction. 
TRANSITION TO: 
EXT. FIELD - PRE-DAWN 
Exhausted from playing fetch all night, Edward throws the stick into the woods. The still-spry dog goes after it. It's gone for a long time, long enough that Edward becomes concerned. 
He follows it into the woods. 
INT. WOODS - DAWN 
Amos Calloway stands up behind a bush, buck naked and hairy. He still has the stick in his mouth, which he takes out as Edward approaches. 
AMOS Didn't kill anything, did I? 
EDWARD A few rabbits, but I think one of them was already dead. 
AMOS That would explain the indigestion. 
Edward tosses him his jacket to cover his privates. 
AMOS I was wrong about you kid. You may not have much, but what you got, you got a lot of. You could get any girl. 
EDWARD There's only one I want. 
A beat. 
AMOS Her name is Sandra Templeton. She's going to Auburn. The semester's almost over, so you better hurry. 
EDWARD Thank you. 
AMOS Good luck, kid. 
Edward walks away. Then starts running. He has to get there as soon as possible. 
Amos sits down and scratches his ear with his foot. 
EXT. BIG TOP - DAY 
Edward shakes Karl's giant hand. They hug. 
EDWARD (V.O.) After saying my goodbyes, I hopped three trains to get to Auburn that afternoon. 
EXT. AUBURN UNIVERSITY - DAY 
We DESCEND ON the main quad, to find Edward Bloom dunking his head in the fountain. 
He changes out of his grubby shirt into a new one, just out of the package. It's the mid-1960's, but by the conservative dress of the passing STUDENTS, it could be any era. 
EXT. SORORITY HOUSE - DAY 
Edward stands with a bouquet of daffodils in front of a half- open door. Through the crack we can see the edge of a YOUNG WOMAN, talking in hushed tones with another girl we can't see. 
Finally, a decision is reached. The door opens to reveal the woman of Edward's dreams, Sandra Kay Templeton. She's effortlessly beautiful, pure and simple as sunlight. 
He can't believe he's finally reached her. He half-laughs, nervous. That makes her laugh, not sure what's going on. 
EDWARD You don't know me, but my name is Edward Bloom and I am in love with you. I've spent the last three years working to find out who you are. I've been shot and stabbed and trampled a few times, had my ribs broken twice, but it's all worth it to see you here, now, and to finally get to talk to you. Because I am destined to marry you. I knew that from the first moment I saw you at the circus. And I know it now more than ever. 
ON SANDRA, overwhelmed. All she can finally think of to say is... 
SANDRA I'm sorry. 
EDWARD Don't need to apologize to me. I mean, I'm the luckiest person you're going to find today... 
She puts her hand on the door frame. On her left ring finger, we see a diamond. 
SANDRA No I'm sorry, I... I'm engaged to be married. 
ON EDWARD as his heart falls 20 floors. He tries to suppress the reaction, put on a brave front. 
EDWARD Oh. 
SANDRA But you're wrong. I do know you, at least by reputation. Edward Bloom from Ashton. See, I'm actually engaged to a boy from Ashton. Don Price. He was a few years older than you. 
FLASHCUTS TO: 
EXT. CREEPY OLD HOUSE - THE GATE - NIGHT 
Young Don Price shines his flashlight on Edward. 
VARIOUS H.S. ATHLETIC COMPETITIONS 93 
DON PRICE What the hell are you doing? This is my girl. Mine! 
EDWARD I didn't know she belonged to anybody. 
Don Price decks him, knocking him down. Edward gets right back up, but makes no move to defend himself. 
Unfazed, Don slugs him again. 
SANDRA Stop it! 
DON PRICE (ignoring) What the matter, Bloom? Too scared to fight back? 
EDWARD I promised I wouldn't. 
A beat. Don shrugs, fine. Then proceeds to kick Edward's ass nine ways to Sunday. 
EDWARD (V.O.) While I took the beating of a lifetime, it was Don Price who was ultimately defeated. 
As the ass-whupping continues, we 
INTERCUT WITH: 
INT. FRATERNITY HOUSE BATHROOM - DAY [FLASHFORWARD] 
Sitting on the can, Don Price pinches a loaf while reading the new Playboy. 
EDWARD (V.O.) All the physical activity had worsened a congenital valve defect. Put simply, his heart wasn't strong enough. 
Don Price squeezes down hard, trying to shit the unshittable. Suddenly, he grasps his chest and collapses face-first on the tile. 
MATCH CUT TO: 
EXT. WITCH'S HOUSE / GATE - NIGHT [FLASHBACK] 
The same image of Don's dead face on the tile is reflected in The Eye. 
RETURNING BACK TO: 
EXT. THE SORORITY HOUSE - DAY 
The thrashing continues. Edward somehow fights his way back to his feet, ready to be knocked down again. 
SANDRA Don! 
Don is about to slug Edward again when he turns. 
Sandra pulls off her engagement ring. There's an audible AHH! from her sisters, and an OHH! from Don's brothers. 
SANDRA I will never marry you. 
A beat. Don stands stunned, his mind reeling. 
Edward, whose eyes are swollen almost shut, keeps waiting for the next punch. Where is it? What's going on? 
DON PRICE What. You love this guy? 
SANDRA He's almost a stranger and I prefer him to you. 
She hands him the ring. Another beat, then Don storms off. But not before decking Edward one last time. 
Sandra leans over Edward's broken body. His head lies on the daffodils. 
SANDRA How can I convince you to stop? 
EDWARD Go out with me. 
He smiles, his teeth bloody. 
SANDRA Okay. 
As the crowd of students APPLAUDS and CHEERS, we CRANE UP above the flowered battlefield. 
EDWARD (V.O.) As it turned out, Sandra was able to keep her same date at the chapel. Only the groom had changed. 
As the MUSIC reaches a crescendo, we suddenly... 
CUT TO: 
INT. GUEST ROOM - NIGHT [PRESENT] 
JOSEPHINE I thought you said you didn't have a church wedding. 
EDWARD Well, we were all set to, but there was a complication. 
He reaches for his glass of water, but Josephine already has it for him. She watches him while he slowly drinks the entire glass, thirstier than he imagined. While he's drinking, we... 
CUT TO: 
INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT [CONTINUOUS] 
Will, back from the grocery store, reaches the top of the stairs. He hears voices coming from the bedroom. 
Backstage, the two men are still fighting. 
PING (chorus) I've had twice the adventure, Cried double the tears. Two times the bad times in half the years. I need a strong man, because I've got Twice the love to give. 
For the first time, Ping turns, and now we see why she was standing in profile. Ping is one-half of 
SIAMESE TWINS. 
Her identical twin is JING, who's been singing harmony all this time. They are two separate women who join at the waist, one set of perfect legs beneath them. 
Edward sees the twins from behind, does a double-take. It costs him a punch to the jaw. 
PING Say hello, Jing. 
JING Hello Jing. 
PING (to the crowd) I'm Ping. She's Jing. She's the good one. (closer) I'm the bad one. 
As the MUSIC builds towards the climax, Edward finishes the fight, knocking the guard out with a right hook. 
As Ping and Jing reach the last chorus, they strike a final pose in the shape of a heart, their arms forming the arches, their backs forming the curves. 
Edward slips behind curtains, trying to get away. 
The soldiers are SHOUTING for an encore, lighters waving. The curtain slowly lowers, revealing 
EDWARD'S PARACHUTE. 
The APPLAUSE dies, replaced by a concerned RUMBLE. The Emcee yells for the Guards to search. 
ON STAGE 
Ping has no idea what's happening. Jing reaches into her cleavage to pull out her eyeglasses. 
INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT 
As ARMED GUARDS search the halls below the stage, Ping and Jing shut the door to their dressing room. At the closet, they start to change outfits. Off-stage, their personalities become quite apparent: Ping is brash, bitchy and ambitious, while Jing is quiet, sweet and bookish. 
In Chinese, subtitled... 
PING How could you miss your cue? You make me look like a fool, out there alone. 
JING You weren't alone. 
Ping HUFFS, turning her back on her sister. 
Jing reaches deeper into the closet to find a new dress, exposing Edward's hiding place. She GASPS. Ping turns to look. 
PING Who the hell are you? 
EDWARD (in Chinese) I'm not going to hurt you. 
PING Damn right you're not. (yelling) GUARD! 
Jing grabs her, a hand over her mouth, but it's too late. A rifle-toting GUARD looks in. 
Pretending to be her bitchy sister -- 
JING Tell your men not to bother us! And lock that door! 
The guard obeys. Ping shakes her sister off. Desperately flipping through his Asian phrasebook, he finds... 
EDWARD Please, I need your help. 
PING What makes you think we'll help you? 
Edward pulls a photo out of his flak jacket. It's Sandra. 
CROSSFADE TO: 
VARIOUS SHOTS 
EDWARD (V.O.) Over the next hour, I described my love for Sandra Kay Templeton, and the ordeal that brought me before them. As it had always been, this love was my salvation. It was destined to be. 
Hearing the story, Jing wipes away a tear. Even Ping is a little affected. 
EDWARD (V.O.) We put together an elaborate plan for escape, involving a whaling ship to Russia, a barge to Cuba and a small, dirty canoe to Miami. We all knew it would be dangerous. 
Still subtitled: 
PING And what are we supposed to do when we get to America? 
EDWARD I can get you bookings. I know the biggest man in show business. 
JING Bob Hope? 
EDWARD Bigger. 
TRANSITION TO: 
EXT. TEMPLETON FAMILY HOUSE - DAY 
EDWARD (V.O.) I was astonished to see the greatest poet of both Ashton and Spectre all the way out in Texas. 
The men shake, disbelieving this lucky coincidence. 
EDWARD I don't believe it! 
NORTHER WINSLOW I want you to know, when you left Spectre it opened my eyes. There was a whole life out there that I was not living. So I travelled. I saw France, and Africa, half of South America. Every day a new adventure, that's my motto. 
EDWARD That's great, Norther. I'm happy for you. I can't believe I helped. 
He's genuinely proud. 
EDWARD So what are you up to now? 
NORTHER WINSLOW I'm robbing this place. 
Reaching the front of the line, Norther pulls two pistols out of his coat, FIRING both into the ceiling. 
SCREAMS all around. The skinny SECURITY GUARD makes a halfhearted reach for his gun, but Norther waves him off. The guard takes out his gun and slides it over. 
NORTHER WINSLOW (to Edward) Would you mind grabbing that? 
There's nothing threatening about his delivery -- he might as well be asking for a Budweiser. Still, Edward senses it would be best to do as he says. He takes the guard's gun. 
NORTHER WINSLOW (to the crowd) Now, I want all of you to lie down. I'm gonna be cleaning out the cash drawers, and my associate here is going to handle the vault. (pointing to a Teller Woman) You help my friend, okay? 
The TELLER WOMAN nods. 
ANGLE ON Edward, not sure what to do. He has a gun, but he truly doesn't want to shoot Norther. The Teller Woman is already waving him to the back. 
He decides he better go. 
INT. AT THE VAULT - DAY 
The Teller Woman is crying as she works the combination. Edward feels horrible. 
EDWARD Look, I'm really sorry. I just don't want anybody to get hurt. 
TELLER WOMAN It's not that, it's just... 
She pulls open the vault door. 
INT. THE VAULT - DAY 
The inner sanctum of the Horizon Savings and Loan holds exactly one folding chair. Nothing else. 
TELLER WOMAN ...there's no money. We're completely bankrupt. 
EDWARD (V.O.) It turned out the savings and loan had already been robbed -- not by armed bandits, but by speculators in Texas real estate. 
TELLER WOMAN (dead serious) You gotta promise you won't tell anybody. 
CUT TO: 
INT. EDWARD'S CAR - DAY 
Edward drives the getaway car, though truthfully they're going just a little over the speed limit. No one's following them. It's an empty country road for miles. 
Norther HOLLERS with body-tingling joy as he counts the money. 
NORTHER WINSLOW Sixty. Eighty. Four hundred dollars! Not bad for just the drawers. Let's see what you got from the vault. 
Edward winces, but doesn't say anything yet. Digging through the vault bag, Norther is surprised to find only a single deposit envelope. He rips it open, revealing just a little cash inside. Even some dimes and pennies. 
NORTHER WINSLOW This is it? The whole vault. 
EDWARD 'Fraid so. 
NORTHER WINSLOW Edward, it's got your deposit slip on it. 
Caught, Edward has to confess... 
EDWARD Look, I just didn't want you to go empty-handed. There's something you should know, Norther. You see, the reason why... 
Edward continues his narration... 
EDWARD (V.O.) I told Norther about the vagaries of Texas oil money and its effect on real estate prices, and how lax enforcement of fiduciary process had made savings and loans particularly vulnerable. 
Hearing this news, Norther was left with one conclusion: 
EXT. TEXAS ROAD - DAY 
Norther leans in the driver's side window. 
NORTHER WINSLOW I should go to Wall Street. That's where all the money is. 
Edward looks over at Norther, the reality sinking in. 
EDWARD (V.O.) I knew then that while my days as a criminal were over, Norther's were just beginning. 
The two men wave at each other as Edward drives off. At the last moment, Norther calls out: 
Will's rental car drives past a sign reading, "Ashton, 10 miles." 
INT. WILL'S CAR - DAY / DRIVING 
Will checks the address on one of his father's files. 
EXT. ASHTON GAS - DAY 
Will talks to the ATTENDANT, who points him in a direction, then gestures a series of left, right, left, rights. 
EXT. ROAD - DAY 
Will drives down a road that seems somewhat familiar. And then we realize why: a roadsign reads "Welcome to Spectre!" 
EXT. A LONE HOUSE - DAY 
Sitting at the edge of a swamp, the little two-story feels lonely, set deep in its lot. Dapples of light break through the trees, a light breeze swaying the branches. 
As Will walks from the car, the WHIRR of cicadas grows. He checks the number: 33. This is the house. It is surrounded by a white square-picket fence, identical to his mother's. Will notices this. 
Reaching the porch, we hear a PIANO playing inside. Badly. 
Re-checking the number on a form he's carrying, Will KNOCKS. The piano stops. 
WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.) Go back to the start. Right hand only. 
The piano starts again. FOOTSTEPS. 
The door opens to reveal a blonde woman in her 50's -- the woman from the grocery store. Her name is Jenny Hill. 
She and Will are startled to see each other. 
JENNY Oh. Oh. 
WILL Hello. 
JENNY I wasn't expecting you. 
Confused, Will checks the name on the form. 
WILL Are you Jenny Hill? 
JENNY I am. And you're Will. I've seen your picture, that's how I recognize you. I almost said something at the store, but it would have been awkward. (a beat) Like this. 
The PIANO STUDENT, a black boy of eight, has stopped. He's watching the conversation at the door. Speaking of awkward... 
JENNY (to the student) Listen, Kenny. Why don't we skip the lesson today? We can go again next week. 
She hands him five dollars out of her pocket. 
STUDENT Do I have to give it back to my Mom? 
JENNY I won't tell her if you won't. 
You don't have to tell him twice. He's out the door in a flash. 
INT. JENNY'S KITCHEN - DAY 
While Will sips his iced tea, Jenny flips through a form she never expected to see again. She hands it back to Will. 
WILL How did you know my father? 
JENNY This was on his sales route, so he was through here all the time. Everyone in town knew him. 
A beat. Not flinching... 
WILL Were you and my father having an affair? 
JENNY (taken aback) Wow. Wow, you just said it. I was expecting to dance around this for another half hour. 
WILL I've seen him with women. He flirts. He always has. On some level, I presumed he was cheating on my mother. I just never had proof. 
She moves, trying to get out of the corner he's boxed her into. Once she's finally free... 
JENNY Can I ask you a question? Why did you come here today? If you found this deed, why didn't you just ask Eddie? 
WILL Because he's dying. 
A long beat. Jenny is taken back by the suddenness of it. She's a tangle of conflicting emotions. 
JENNY Look, I don't know how much you want to know about any of this. You have one image of your father and it would be wrong for me to go and change it. Especially this late in the game. 
WILL My father talked about a lot of things he never did, and I'm sure he did a lot of things he never talked about. I'm just trying to reconcile the two. 
Fair enough. Jenny takes a seat across from him at the table. 
JENNY The first thing you have to understand, is that your father never meant to end up here. And yet he did, twice. The first time, he was early. The second time, he was late. 
INT. EDWARD'S CAR / DRIVING - NIGHT 
It's late, and Edward is pensive. 
Finishing up with AL, Edward shakes hands. 
JENNY (V.O.) Whatever he bought, the people were not asked to leave or pay rent or anything. They were just asked to keep doing as they were doing. In that way, he could make sure the town would never die. 
EXT. ROAD IN THE SWAMP - DAY 
Edward climbs out of his car, the road having literally stopped. The sun is shining, but it can barely penetrate the trees' thick canopy. 
JENNY (V.O.) Within six months, his trust had purchased the entire town. With one exception. 
In the distance, he sees a shack, so old it's nearly fallen. He walks toward it, the marshy ground SQUISHING up around his feet, soaking the hems of his trousers. 
We hear a PIANO playing from inside the shack. Edward KNOCKS on the half-hung door, which swings open by itself. 
INT. SHACK - DAY 
The inside is nicer than you'd think, a real home. A fire burns in the stove, and curtains hang in the windows. 
With her back turned to him, Jenny Hill plays the piano. Edward doesn't recognize her as the little girl who used to have a crush on him. Without turning, she says... 
JENNY You must be Edward Bloom. 
EDWARD How did you know? 
She keeps PLAYING. 
JENNY No one would come out here unless they had business. And no one would have business with me except for you. You're buying the town. 
EDWARD Apparently I've overlooked this one piece of it, and I'd like to remedy that. You see, in order for the town to be preserved, the trust must own it in its entirety. 
JENNY So I've heard. 
EDWARD I'll offer you more than it's worth. And you know you won't have to move. Nothing will change except the name on the deed, you have my word. 
Jenny stops playing, her piece not quite finished. She turns to face him. Edward still doesn't recognize her. 
JENNY Now let me get this straight. You'll buy the swamp from me, but I'll stay in it. You'll own the house, but it'll still be mine. I'll be here, and you'll come and go as you please to one place or another. Do I have that right? 
Strange to hear it put that way, but -- 
EDWARD In so many words, yes. 
JENNY Then I don't think so Mr. Bloom. If nothing is going to change, I'd just as soon it not change in the way it hasn't been changing all this time. 
EDWARD It's not like you're going to lose anything. You can ask anyone in town. I've been nothing if not generous. I want the best for everyone. 
A long beat. 
JENNY Mr. Bloom, why are you buying this land? Some sort of midlife crisis? Instead of buying a convertible, you buy a town? 
He looks at her, puzzled and surprised. No one has really asked before. 
EDWARD Helping people makes me happy. 
JENNY I'm not convinced you should be happy. 
EDWARD I'm sorry. Have I offended you? 
She finally turns to face him. 
JENNY No, you did exactly what you promised. You came back. I was just expecting you sooner. 
FLASHBACK TO: 
EXT. SPECTRE - NIGHT 
Young Jenny Hill watches barefoot Edward leave Spectre for the first time. 
BACK TO: 
INT. SHACK - DAY 
Finally realizing who this woman is... 
EDWARD You're Beamen's daughter. Your last name is different. (realizing) You married. 
JENNY I was 18. He was 28. Turns out that was a big difference. 
Before he can say anything more... 
JENNY I won't be selling you this house, Mr. Bloom. 
EDWARD I see. I thank you for your time. 
A bit bewildered, Edward tips his hat to her as he leaves. 
EXT/INT. SWAMP SHACK - DAY 
Edward pulls the door shut behind him as he leaves, but it breaks off in his hands. It's not the clean exit he was hoping for. 
Inside Jenny looks out, surprised and annoyed. 
Edward takes a final look at this perfect little town. 
JENNY (V.O.) One day, Edward Bloom left, and never returned to the town he'd saved. 
He climbs in his car and starts the engine. 
EXT. JENNY HILL'S HOUSE - DAY TO NIGHT 
As we watch, the swamp begins to overtake the house, swallowing it in a tangle of vines and mossy branches. 
Shoots burst up through the planks in the porch. Snakes slither through the marsh. 
Day becomes night. 
JENNY (V.O.) As for the girl, the common belief was that she'd become a witch, and crazy at that. She became something of a legend herself. 
We REVERSE to find FOUR KIDS looking in through the rusty iron gate with flashlights. A beat, then they run away. 
JENNY (V.O.) And the story ended where it began. 
INT. JENNY HILL'S KITCHEN - PRESENT DAY 
Will and Jenny are still sitting at her table, a pitcher of iced tea between them. 
WILL Logically, you couldn't be the Witch, because she was old back when he was young. 
JENNY No, it's logical if you think like your father. See, to him, there's only two women: your mother and everyone else. 
WILL You didn't become crazy. 
JENNY Well, therapy. And one day I realized I was in love with a man who could never love me back. I was living in a fairy tale. 
Will smiles to hear it called that. 
JENNY People aren't like they are in stories. They hurt each other without meaning to. They are kind and unbelievably cruel at the same moment. Like me, now. I'm not sure I should have told you any of this. 
Her composure is starting to break. 
WILL No, I wanted to know. I'm glad I know. 
A long beat, both staring at their iced tea. Jenny is working herself into more of a state by not talking. 
JENNY I wanted to meet you for the longest time. I did. (a smile) I envied you so much. The way Eddie would talk about you when you were at Missouri, that award you won. Congratulations, incidentally. And when you got the job at the A.P., everything, he was so proud of you. I mean, that's the thing. Every moment he loved you. 
She's fighting tears, not the first ones she's shed over this. 
JENNY And as brightly as the sun would shine when he was with me, every time he left it disappeared. I wanted to be as important to him as you were, and I was never going to be. I was make-believe and his other life, you, were real. 
ANGLE ON Will, sorting through his swirling thoughts. 
JENNY You knew that, didn't you? 
CUT TO: 
INT. WILL'S CAR - DAY / DRIVING 
Will skips through the stations on the radio, but ultimately turns it off. He's trying to think. 
EXT. BLOOM HOUSE - DUSK 
Will walks up the front steps. There's a subtle change to his expression, a dark cloud lifted. He unlocks the door. 
INT. BLOOM HOUSE FOYER - DUSK 
It's half-dark and quiet in the house, no talking, no TV. Will sets his keys on the table. 
INT. KITCHEN - DUSK 
Will looks in. Empty. 
WILL (calling out) Hello? Mom? Dad? 
INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DUSK 
We follow Will, looking into his and Josephine's room. He aims for the guest room at the end of the hall. 
INT. GUEST ROOM - DUSK 
Looking over his shoulder, we see his father's bed is empty. The sheets are in a tangle on the floor. 
A beat, then Will half-runs back down the hall. Back down the stairs. 
INT. FOYER - DUSK 
Headed out, Will grabs his keys off the table. We LOOK RIGHT, where the "MESSAGE" light blinks on the answering machine. 
INT. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE - NIGHT 
The hospital is so new, it's not even finished -- thick plastic hangs from exposed framing. There's no one at the information desk, so Will forges ahead. 
INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT 
WILL How long have you known my father? 
DR. BENNETT Thirty years. Maybe more. 
WILL How would you describe him? 
DR. BENNETT (re: chart) Five-eleven. One-eighty. Regulated hypertension. (beat) How would his son describe him? 
Tables turned, Will searches for an answer. He doesn't have one. 
Dr. Bennett hangs the chart back on the bed. 
DR. BENNETT Did your father ever tell you about the day you were born? 
WILL A thousand times. He caught an uncatchable fish. 
DR. BENNETT Not that one. The real story. Did he ever tell you that? 
WILL (suddenly interested) No. 
DR. BENNETT Your mother came in about three in the afternoon. Her neighbor drove her, on account of your father was on business in Wichita. You were born a week early, but there were no complications. It was a perfect delivery. Now, your father was sorry to miss it, but it wasn't the custom for the men to be in the room for deliveries then, so I can't see as it would have been much different had he been there. And that's the real story of how you were born. 
A long silence, just the sounds of the hospital, doctors being paged. 
DR. BENNETT Not very exciting, is it? And I suppose if I had to choose between the true version and an elaborate one involving a fish and a wedding ring, I might choose the fancy version. But that's just me. 
Will half-smiles. 
Patting Will's shoulder, Dr. Bennett leaves. We STAY ON Will and his father for a long time, then Will takes his pen and starts making a list. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - VARIOUS SHOTS 
Will flips to a new page. The list keeps getting longer. 
He smiles, remembering something. On his fourth page, he looks up at his motionless father. A beat, then we slowly 
CROSSFADE TO: 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - PRE-DAWN 
It's very early morning, and the first blue light of day is glowing through the vertical blinds. Still in his chair, Will wakes up a bit at a time. The notepad is on his lap, the pen in his hand. 
He cracks his neck, crooked from sleeping on it wrong. What woke him up? 
He looks to his right. Holds his gaze for a breath. 
WILL Dad? 
His father is awake, silently GASPING for breath. His eyes are open, scared and confused. 
WILL Dad! Do you want me to get a nurse? 
Edward shakes his head unambiguously. Will already has his finger on the orange "nurse call" button, but doesn't push it. 
WILL What can I do? Can I help? Can I get you something? Water? 
Edward nods. Will pours a glass from the pitcher on the nightstand. He holds it to his father's lips, but Edward won't drink. He pushes it away. He wanted something else. 
EDWARD (whispering) The river. 
WILL The river? 
It takes Edward all his strength to put together each thought. It's like he's only half-there, fighting to hang on to this world. 
EDWARD Tell me how it happens. 
WILL How what happens? 
EDWARD How I go. 
ON WILL, realizing... 
WILL You mean what you saw in The Eye? 
Edward nods. Yes, that's what he was trying to say. 
A long beat. 
WILL I don't know that story, Dad. You never told me that one. 
Will pushes his fingers under his father's heavy hand, and holds it. There's nothing else to do. 
Edward looks around, confused and increasingly scared. He sees the end approaching, but doesn't know exactly what's coming. Without the story, he's lost. 
Fighting the urge to panic -- 
WILL I can try, Dad. If you help. Just tell me how it starts. 
EDWARD Like this. 
WILL Okay. Okay. 
WILL I ask... 
BACK TO: 
EXT. GLENVILLE BLVD. - DAY [STORY VERSION] 
The Chevy slaloms through the Sunday-morning traffic. 
WILL (O.S.) Where are we headed? 
WILL (V.O.) You say... 
INT. CHEVY - DAY 
EDWARD The River! 
Will stops short, the traffic backed up. He HONKS, trying to get around the jam. But it's no use. 
Then, up ahead, the cars start moving, shoved aside by massive hands. It's Karl the Giant, clearing a path by brute force. 
Edward leans out the window and waves. Karl waves back. 
EXT. ASHTON RIVER - DAY 
The same stretch of the river where it all began. A CROWD of more than 100 waiting. 
WILL (V.O.) As we get closer to the river, we see everybody's already there. And I mean everybody. 
Amos Calloway is here with the circus folk, including Mr. Soggybottom. We also find Edward's Mother and Father, the Mayor, and many others from along the way. No one has aged a day since we saw them last. 
While Ping scans the horizon, Jing nuzzles with her boyfriend, Norther Winslow. It's Ping who first spots the Chevrolet. 
PING He's here! 
The crowd CHEERS. The Ashton marching band PLAYS. Jenny Hill smiles. So does the Old Woman. 
We PUSH IN on the Old Woman's glass eye, where we see... 
YOUNG EDWARD 
reflected. This is what he saw. 
INT. THE CHEVROLET - DAY 
Amazed, Will turns to his father. 
WILL It's unbelievable. 
EDWARD Story of my life. 
EXT. RIVERSIDE - DAY 
Will gets out of the Chevrolet, overwhelmed by the crowd. Behind him, Sandra, Josephine and Dr. Bennett pull up. Karl comes just after that. 
Crossing to the passenger side, Will lifts his father out. Strangely, he's gotten even lighter. Will carries him easily. 
Edward pulls off his shoes, tying the laces together. He hands them to Josephine. She throws them up at the powerline. They loop over. APPLAUSE and CHEERS. 
The crowd parts to let Will and Edward get to the river. As he passes, Edward shakes some hands, pats some people on the cheek, and gives others a good poke in the ribs. 
WILL (V.O.) And the strange thing is, there's not a sad face to be found. Everyone's just so glad to see you, and send you off right. 
Will walks into the river, up to his knees. He turns back so his father can face the crowd. Edward waves. 
EDWARD Goodbye everybody! Farewell! Adieu! 
THE CROWD (VARIOUS) Goodbye Edward! / See ya! / We'll miss you! 
But one face is missing from the crowd -- Sandra. Will turns to see she's already standing in the river beside them. 
The reflection of the light off the water gives Sandra an unearthly glow. She's more tranquil and more beautiful than we've ever seen her. 
EDWARD My girl in the river. 
She kisses him. He tweaks her chin. The crowd HOLLERS in approval, but their moment remains strangely private. Only Will is there to witness. 
As the kiss ends, Edward tries to pull off his wedding ring. But it's stuck. Finally, he sucks on it, pulling it free with his teeth. 
A look to Will, a smile with a glint of gold. Will takes the ring out of his mouth. 
Edward suddenly drops out of Will's arms with a SPLASH. For he's no longer a man, but rather 
A FAT CATFISH 
swimming at his feet. 
We watch as the catfish circles, then heads for deeper water, disappearing. 
Will and his mother stand knee-deep in the water, watching Edward Bloom swim away into the sunlight. Josephine is back on the shore, along with the entire crowd. 
MUSIC BUILDS to a climax, then... 
