THE BIG WHITE 
Written by 
Collin Friesen 
FADE IN: 
EXT. ROAD - WINTER DAY 
A police car, nothing more than a speck on the landscape, is intermittently visible through the blowing snow. 
INT. POLICE CAR - SAME 
A CORPORAL (20s), behind the wheel, with a bored DETECTIVE BOYLE (60s) at his side. 
CORPORAL So his hand is like, off, right.  So he puts on a tourniquet, puts the hand in his pocket, walks five miles through the bush til he gets to the highway, where he passes out, on the road, right.  Then this logging truck comes along... 
DETECTIVE BOYLE (looking ahead) Hey. 
The Corporal looks forward. 
CAR'S POV: Through the windshield of a WOMAN (40s), dressed in her pajamas and a parka, skipping down the middle of the road. 
EXT. ROAD 
The police car pulls to a stop, just as the woman does a pirouette and falls over backwards. 
Detective Boyle and the other Cop get out and walk over. 
CORPORAL (into his radio) Dispatch, this is unit 611, we need a first responsder -- 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Cancel that. 
The Woman kicks up a leg, wiggles her foot. 
DETECTIVE BOYLE (cont'd) I know where she belongs. 
As they lift her up... 
1     INT. INSIDE A TRASH DUMPSTER - LATE AFTERNOON                                  1 
The dumpster lid opens on a bitterly cold, gray winter's day in an Alaskan city.  A chunky, shivering HAIR STYLIST with jet black bangs shakes out a box of conditioning samples. 
HAIR STYLIST (to someone O.S.) She says "I haven't eaten all day," then, right there on the bus she pulls out this, like, salmon steak and I'm... 
2     INT. INSIDE A TRASH DUMPSTER - LATE AFTERNOON                                  2 
The dumpster lid BANGS shut, reopens a beat later. A moment of calm until two garbage bags SLAM against the inside of the lid. It falls shut with a CLANG. 
3     EXT. TRASH DUMPSTER - NIGHT                                                    3 
The lid reopens. Night time now, as a street lamp BUZZES to life. A middle aged MAN in work clothes checks to make sure he's alone. He gently lowers the lid, opens it again a moment later, this time balancing a mini-bar fridge on his shoulder.  He dumps the appliance into the bin and runs off. 
4     INT. INSIDE A TRASH DUMPSTER - NIGHT                                           4 
The lid reopens.  SIRENS off in the distance... 
MEN'S VOICES (O.S.) One, two, three... up. 
The lifeless body of a fair-sized man comes CRASHING into the garbage. SIRENS closer.  A man seen only in silhouette leans in to pull some garbage over the corpse.  A second man looks in, then pulls the first man away. 
MAN'S VOICE We'll get him later.  C'mon. 
The lid drops. 
5     EXT. TRASH DUMPSTER - MORNING                                                  5 
Black.  The dumpster reopens. Morning now. A Korean-American  TEENAGER wearing an apron and headphones sings along to an  old KISS tune as he deposits two large orange garbage bags. 
TEENAGER "...Get up, everybody's gonna move their feet, get down, everybody's gonna leave their seat...gonna lose your mind in..." 
He shuts the lid with care.  Black. 
6     EXT. CITY STREET - DAY                                                         6 
A cookie-cutter subdivision.  Old pine trees poke through the snow cover that blankets the neighborhood.  HOWARD (30s), a burly outdoors type, is trying to unload a new snowmobile from the back of his pickup.  TED WATTERS (late 20s) half hidden under a heavy dress coat, walks down the street. He stops by Howard's driveway. 
TED Need a hand? 
HOWARD (turning) Yeah.  Could ya grab me those two by eights? 
TED By move on you mean...? 
BRANCH ...cash in Raymond's policy. 
Ted smiles to himself. 
PAUL I just thought, well, it's pretty unlikely he's still alive. My Dad always wanted us to be able to look after each other if anything should ever happen.  And to be frank, money's a little -- 
TED I understand Mr. Barnell, but here's the thing. With no actual body, under Alaskan statutes a person must be missing for seven years before he or she can be legally declared dead and that's not withstanding an investigation period where concerned parties can take up to another year to file interventions concerning the motion.  So, even though your brother's status is undetermined at this point, there's really very little we can do for you. 
Ted flips the file shut.  Case closed.  Branch, not entirely happy with Ted's demeanor, forces a smile. 
BRANCH Of course we are extremely sorry for your loss. 
Branch looks at Ted.  Ted turns to Paul. 
TED Oh, absolutely. 
11    EXT.  STRIP MALL - NIGHT                                                      11 
The city skyline rises in the distance as heat vents belch steam against the rapidly setting sun.  But that's miles away.  Here on the outskirts is a rapidly failing five store strip mall; a "Porn-a-copia" XXX Video store, hair stylist, small engine repair shop, fish and chips joint and the "Barnell Great Escapes" travel agency.  We might notice a big trash dumpster in the corner.  Paul's car, a Ford Taurus, pulls onto the parking pad. 
12    INT. PAUL'S CAR - CONTINUOUS                                                  12 
Paul driving, talking on his cell phone and balancing a big non-spill metallic travel coffee mug at the same time. 
PAUL Hang on, hang on.  First off, how did you get my cell number?  (Beat)  Because it's for mechanical and medical emergencies only. 
Paul, wound up, taps his brakes too hard.  His mug falls, the lid pops and the coffee proceeds to soak a stack of papers. 
PAUL (cont'd) Great. (back into phone) No, I'm not...  I just... give me a second here. 
Paul parks his car, gathers the soggy papers and gets out. 
13    EXT. STRIP MALL                                                               13 
Paul, still on the phone, carries the papers to the dumpster. 
PAUL Yes, and that check went out a week ago.  I watched my secretary write it up. 
14    EXT. INSIDE THE DUMPSTER                                                      14 
Black.  Paul opens the lid.  The phone is cradled in his neck, he checks each soggy page to make sure he's not tossing anything important. 
PAUL Well I don't know.  I, I, I have no clue.  Could it possibly be a problem on your end?  So the electric company never makes a...  Look, I pay my bills.  I'm a Rotarian for goodness -- 
Paul looks over to see some MEN from Rodney's Repo Ranch walking up to the front door of his office.  Distracted for a moment, the phone slips and falls into the trash. 
Paul, muttering, leans in to get it.  He pushes aside an orange garbage bag, guided by the faint sound of the other person STILL TALKING. And then-- 
PAUL'S POV: of THE BODY-- a 40-ish White (well, a little blue) male dressed in a cheap suit.  Paul's phone lies across the corpse's mouth, like the dead guy is talking. 
THE CELL PHONE Mr. Barnell?  Mr. Barnell? 
15    EXT. PARKING AREA / STRIP MALL                                                15 
A SHOUT as Paul jumps back from the dumpster. The lid CRASHES down as he scrambles/slides away.  He takes a moment to compose himself, then realizes his phone is still in there. 
He opens the dumpster lid and very quickly reaches in, grabs his cell and hurries off.  The lid CRASHES shut. 
PAUL (into the phone) Hello? 
Hung up.  Paul dials 911, looks back at the dumpster, thinks for a second, then hits END.  He stands there, thinking. 
A15   INT. "BARNELL GREAT ESCAPES TRAVEL" - LATER                                  A15 
Paul back in his office, staring out the window with a perfect view of the dumpster.  He can't take his eyes off it. 
Behind him, the Repo-Men are picking up a newish computer monitor and walking toward the door.  He's oblivious. 
At the sound of a TRUCK, his head snaps around.  It's a garbage truck, but instead of heading to the dumpster, it rumbles past on the road.  That's all it takes. 
B15   EXT. PARKING AREA / STRIP MALL - MOMENTS LATER                               B15 
Paul backs his Ford Taurus up to the dumpster, pops the trunk, checks to make sure he's alone then steps up on the rear bumper, opens the lid and clambers inside. 
16    INT. INSIDE A FRIDGE - LATER                                                  16 
Black.  The fridge door opens, the light revealing several cans of pop and beer in the foreground.  Behind the 
beverages, a garage where Paul struggles with the lifeless body.  He props the man against the hood of his car, gives him a quick once over, pockets, obvious wounds.  Nothing. 
GARY (cont'd) So how'd it feel?  I mean, not when you did it, but, like now? 
JIMBO I don't want to talk about it. 
Gary hops inside as his actions become more frantic.  Still no luck.  He stands. 
GARY Not here. 
Jimbo glares at his partner. 
GARY (cont'd) Serious.  He's gone.  Maybe he wasn't... 
JIMBO Don't even joke.  Maybe the trash was emptied. 
GARY Looks pretty full.  Hey... (ducking down) There's a little fridge down here. (standing) If we would have shot him at least we'd know for sure. 
JIMBO I was following orders.  And if you hadn't started a screaming match, no one would have called the cops and we wouldn't have had to dump his -- 
GARY Fine.  Sorry. 
JIMBO Fine. 
GARY I'm just saying... maybe you didn't break it all the way. 
JIMBO (walking away) It was broken. 
GARY I'm just saying... maybe it was like hypothermia and he just looked dead. 
JIMBO It - was - BROKEN! 
Gary, embarrassed, digs in the trash with his feet. 
25    INT. GARAGE - CONTINUOUS                                                      25 
Margaret, still in her bathrobe, walks to the fridge.  As she puts her hand on the latch, she notices the pile of pop cans on the floor. 
She tugs on the door.  It opens just a crack before the chain stops it.  The frozen head peeks through the slight gap. 
Margaret SIGHS, tries to push the fridge door closed, but the body is in the way. She gives the door a hip check.  The door latches shut while something frozen and brittle inside CRACKS.  Margaret, oblivious, walks away. 
26    INT. KITCHEN OVEN                                                             26 
A chicken sits in a pan, the rest of the room visible behind it through the oven door window. 
MARGARET (O.S.) Paul?  Why is the fridge in the garage chained shut? 
PAUL How's my Angel tonight? 
MARGARET Blow me.  Dinner's almost ready.  You feel like some wine?  I feel like some wine. 
Paul walks to the oven, opens the door and pats the chicken.  Stone cold. 
PAUL Sweetie, here's a crazy thought... I don't feel like chicken tonight, why don't we order in? 
MARGARET Fuck it, okay. 
PAUL There's actually something we need to talk about. It's about Raymond.  He's back. 
Paul smiles bravely as he shuts the oven door.  Behind the chicken, Margaret doesn't look happy as Paul starts to explain.  She rushes from the room. 
27/28 TIGHT ON: TV SCREEN                                                        27/28 
Home video of RAYMOND (then early 30s), fat, physically imposing and the only person not in festive tropical gear, standing in a VFW hall decorated in a Caribbean theme. (He is definitely not the same person Paul has cooling in the fridge.)  A large banner behind him proclaims "HAPPY 10TH ANNIVERSARY - BON VOYAGE." 
RAYMOND (a little drunk) Okay, I never thought it would last this long, but seeing as how it has... There ya go.  Let me just say that my brother, old "Puddles McBarnesy" did better than he should have. 
A younger, somewhat tipsy Paul comes into frame, puts an arm around his brother and smiles. 
PAUL What'cha saying there Raymond?  Wha'cha saying 'bout me? 
Raymond shakes his brother's arm off his shoulder. 
RAYMOND Enough, OK? 
PAUL (sing-songy) Ray's a little jeallllllllous.  This is the one that got away, right Ray? 
The crowd LAUGHS as Paul reaches over and musses up his brother's hair. Raymond, furious, grabs his brother by the lapels and throws him roughly to the floor.  The laughter stops. 
MARGARET (O.S.) Leave him alone, ball licker! 
RAYMOND And shut that thing -- 
Behind them on the hill, Gary tries to retrieve his nephew's Snowrider from the Bully.  He is failing. 
DAVE Show me what?  An empty trash dumpster?  It was supposed to look like an accident.  I was hoping to see it in the paper.  So help me, if this guy pops up somewhere... 
While Jimbo does his best to stay warm, behind him on the hill, Gary can only watch as the Bully slides away. 
BULLY (echoing in the cold) Fag!  Big homo! 
JIMBO He won't.  He can't.  He's -- 
DAVE Proof, Jimbo.  I like to know my money's well spent. You got a week. 
Dave drives off as Gary walks over with his SNIFFLING nephew. 
GARY Slippery little sucker.  You mind if we stop at a toy store on the way back? 
33    OMITTED                                                                       33 
A 33  INT. BARNELL HOME / BEDROOM - NIGHT                                         A 33 
HIGH ANGLE ON:  Paul and Margaret in bed.  Margaret takes up more than her share of the bed, her arm tossed over her husband.  Paul, on his third of the bed, looks as if he's lying in state. But Paul's not sleeping. 
34    EXT.  BARNELL HOME - MORNING                                                  34 
A newspaper clears the "For Sale - price reduced!" sign on the front lawn and lands with a THUD on the steps. 
35    INT.  GARAGE - CONTINUOUS                                                     35 
Paul has the "Morning News" on the hood of his car.  He looks over at the fridge, still padlocked. 
PAUL (to himself) Let's see if anyone's missing you. 
He flips through each section.  There's nothing.  Paul walks to the fridge. 
PAUL (cont'd) (to the corpse) I don't know what kind of man let's himself just freeze to death in the trash, but I was never one to preach.  Way I see it, you've probably got family somewhere and they'd probably appreciate seeing you get a decent funeral, even if it's not really... yours. 
Paul, somewhat befuddled, gently pats the fridge door. 
36    OMITTED                                                                       36 
37    INT. BARNELL HOME / LIVING ROOM - LATER                                       37 
Margaret pushes the vacuum across the floor, humming to herself.  Paul walks by slipping into his coat.  He notices that the vacuum isn't plugged in.  Without missing a beat, he walks over and plugs it into the outlet.  The VACUUM ROARS TO LIFE.  Margaret doesn't flinch.  Paul heads out the door. 
38    OMITTED                                                                       38 39    OMITTED                                                                       39 
40    EXT. WOODED AREA - LATER                                                      40 
A ways out in the forest.  Only two houses on this turn-out; a cozy looking lived in cabin sits up the road from a seemingly deserted rundown mobile home.  A car pulls up. 
A40   INT. PAUL'S CAR - CONTINUOUS                                                 A40 
Paul adjusts a pillow he has taped to his stomach, then pulls on a blue ski mask. 
41    EXT. BARNELL MOBILE HOME - MOMENTS LATER                                      41 
Paul undoes the bungee cord and drags his snowblower out of the trunk.  He fires up the snowblower and starts to plow the drive way of both houses. 
MRS. WHERRY (80s), in her bathrobe, looks out the window of the cozy cabin. A tad confused, she waves to the man in the blue parka.  The blue parka waves back. 
42    INT.  PAUL'S KITCHEN - NIGHT                                                  42 
Paul walks in from the garage, pulling off his blue parka.  Margaret enters from the living room.  (Paul still has the pillow taped to his front, which Margaret happily pokes with a finger but never mentions.) 
MARGARET (nervous) He's not here, is he? 
PAUL Sweetie, don't you worry about Raymond. 
MARGARET When he's around, it just brings back... Fuck. 
PAUL I know.  He, he said he's probably gonna head back down South soon. 
Margaret smiles, relieved.  The phone RINGS.  Paul picks up. 
43    INT. MRS. WHERRY'S HOME - CONTINUOUS                                          43 
Mrs. Wherry talks on the phone in her kitchen.  The head of a large antelope is mounted on the wall behind her. 
MRS. WHERRY Paul?  Thank you so much for clearing the drive way. That was most considerate. 
PAUL I'm afraid I don't understand Mrs. Wherry. 
Paul drapes the steaks on the body, tucking one under an arm, the other hanging from a pocket. He pauses for moment, then pulls out a container of lard and, fighting his own revulsion, smears it across the dead man's face. 
PAUL Sorry about this part. 
Paul pats the body on the shoulder, then looks up at the ridge and the long journey ahead. 
58    EXT. BOTTOM OF RIDGE  - NIGHT                                                 58 
A WOLF appears in the moonlight.  Followed by another, and another.  They approach the corpse... 
59    EXT. HIGHWAY TURNOUT / CLEARING - DAY                                         59 
Snowmobiles SCREAM to the site as people tramp through the thick snow, covering all of Paul's hard work.  An ambulance and State Conservation vehicles pack the area where Paul first pulled off.  Yellow police tape is strung between fir trees marking a path toward the ridge. 
60    EXT. BOTTOM OF RIDGE  - DAY                                                   60 
The corpse is covered with a tarp.  The area is littered with blood, animal tracks and bits of blue parka.  POLICE OFFICERS and tough looking LOCAL SNOWMOBILERS mill about the corpse, taking turns lifting the tarp that covers the body.  A few yards away, DETECTIVE BOYLE (60s) talks to a seemingly distraught Paul. 
DETECTIVE BOYLE (looking at the ridge) If it's any comfort to you, he likely wasn't eaten while conscious.  Did he say where he'd been living, before he came home? 
PAUL Florida.  He didn't really talk about it much.  He brought us this shell. 
Paul holds up a sea shell, obviously from the display at his office.  Tears well up in his eyes. 
PAUL (cont'd) It's really all we have left.  He'd been gone for five years.  We'd given him up-- 
DETECTIVE BOYLE --for dead, yes sir. 
PAUL How did you...? 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Anonymous phone tip from some Jamaican guy. (Paul shows no reaction) Said he saw what looked like a body.  We tracked you through his ID. 
PAUL Just like on TV. 
Boyle nods sympathetically 
PAUL (cont'd) I've got to see him.  Please. 
Paul starts to make his way to the body.  Boyle stops him. 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Mr. Barnell,  I should warn you, an animal  attack isn't pretty.  There's not much left. 
Paul nods.  They make their way over to the tarp.  Boyle pulls it back. 
DETECTIVE BOYLE (cont'd) Is that your brother, sir? 
Paul leans in-- the man's face is hamburger.  Paul nods. 
PAUL They chewed his ears off.  What kind of animal does something like that? 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Normally I'd say bear, but these tracks and the feeding pattern indicate wolf.  It's rare, but it can happen. 
Boyle pulls the cover back over the body. Boyle hands Barnell a clear baggie with the dead man's wallet inside. 
DETECTIVE BOYLE (cont'd) Your brother's personal effects.  We've got some people with the victim's assistance program who can help you through this.  Marcie? 
Marcie, a female police officer, walks a distraught Paul away.  As they go, another FEMALE COP approaches. 
FEMALE COP Coroner found some smaller bite marks on the ankle. 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Pups.  Must have been the whole freakin' pack. 
FEMALE COP You want an autopsy? 
DETECTIVE BOYLE On what? 
FEMALE COP Derek found this. 
She holds up a clear evidence bag with the remnants of a strip of bacon on the inside. 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Not the smartest snack for a hiker. 
FEMALE COP Messy animals aren't they? 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Messy.  Messy messy messy messy. 
61    INT. INFLATABLE GOLF DOME - LATE AFTERNOON                                    61 
The second level of a large indoor driving range/mini golf course.  The sound of clubs SMACKING golf balls echo as an intense Ted "waggles" before his shot. On his back-swing, Tiffany throws her arms around him from behind. 
TED I take it you're done? 
TED Would it surprise you to learn his brother tried to cash in his policy two weeks ago? 
DETECTIVE BOYLE You trying to tell me Mr. Barnell chewed off his brother's leg? 
TED Doesn't that make you the least bit suspicious? 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Mr. Watters, this is a nice simple ending.  We like nice simple endings. 
TED But shouldn't you-- 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Ya know, I don't know thing one about insurance, but I'm guessing it's your job to find a way not to pay these poor people. 
CAM Hey now, we're just like you guys, gotta run down whatever leads we can find. 
Ted walks down to the head of the victim, pulls out a camcorder and starts to tape the body. 
TED Detective, we're an insurance company, not the Salvation Army. 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Mind telling me what you're doing? 
CAM They gave every claims team a video camera last quarter... you'd be amazed at how it cuts down on litigation.  We had this case two months ago where this mother of six was claiming... 
DETECTIVE BOYLE I've got my own war stories, thanks.  You mind stopping that? 
TED Just doing -- 
DETECTIVE BOYLE Your job?  Yes, I caught that. 
As Ted gets his last shot, Boyle covers the body back up and slides the drawer shut with a loud CLANG.  Black. 
63    EXT. PAUL'S HOUSE - SUNSET                                                    63 
TV NEWS CAMERA POV: Of Paul, standing on his stoop, as he's interviewed by a well made-up female TV REPORTER (20s) dressed for the cold. 
TV REPORTER You ready Mr. Barnell? 
PAUL Yes. 
The camera man flicks on his light as Paul squints. 
TV REPORTER The police told us what happened, how are you folks holding up? 
MARGARET (O.S.) Paul?  Who's out there? 
Paul reaches back, and, as discretely as possible, grabs the door handle to keep Margaret from opening it. 
PAUL Obviously, my wife's very upset... 
MARGARET (O.S.) Paul, the door's stuck! 
Margaret starts to HAMMER rhythmically on the door. 
PAUL (ignoring her) It's been a tough, you know, when something like this happens you just have to ask yourself... 
MARGARET (O.S.) Who fucked with the fucking door! 
PAUL You can see how stressful it's been, I should really go now.  We have to plan a service. 
And with that, Paul opens his front door and ducks inside, quickly shutting it behind him. 
64    INT. BRANCH'S OFFICE - DAY                                                    64 
Branch, very unhappy, flips through some papers then looks up at Ted and Cam. 
TED This isn't a standard case.  You were there when this guy came in looking to cash in.  C'mon, it stinks. 
BRANCH Secondly, if the police say this guy was... 
CAM Eaten by wolves.  Sir. 
BRANCH (incredulous) Eaten by wolves, then we've got no case.  Did you see Mr. Barnell on the news last night?  Last thing we need is bad P.R.  I don't want this thing Valdeez-ing on us. 
TED Mr. Branch, I'm sure head office would take a rather dim view of our -- 
BRANCH Corporate's view will be whatever I tell them. 
Cam, seeing his partner is about to get himself into a heap of trouble, hustles him toward the door. 
CAM Yes Sir.  Color us called off, as of now. 
65    INT. INSURANCE OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER                                         65 
JIMBO Yeah, "Sorry."  I get strip searched and you go off playing snow angels... 
RADIO HOST (O.S.) Well, we've got one now, don't we!? 
WOMAN CALLER (O.S.) That was different. From what I read in the paper he was unconscious. And now people are going to use this as an excuse to-- 
RADIO HOST (O.S.) Hey lady, why don't you tell Raymond Barnell how wolves have gotten a bad rap. 
WOMAN CALLER (O.S.) I can tell you from years of experience that wolves do not operate-- 
JIMBO Wait a minute. 
RADIO HOST (O.S.) You can tell me all you want, lady, but it is an undeniable, indisputable fact.  This Barnell guy got turned into a Scooby Snack by a pack of wild animals... 
JIM'S POV: Through the windshield, looking at the sign for "Barnell Great Escapes Travel."  Jimbo and Gary look at each other. Maybe... 
68    INT. INSURANCE OFFICE - DAY                                                   68 
Ted at his cubicle on his phone. 
TED Yeah, hi, it's Ted Watters from Fidelity Mutual. (beat) I need a complete credit work up on a Raymond Barnell... and Paul, a Paul Barnell too... sure, I'll hold. 
Cam walks by, leans his head over the top of the cubicle. 
CAM You start the month ends yet? 
TED Can you take care of it?  I'm kinda... working on something. 
CAM Oh God, you're not still on the Barnell thing are you-- 
Ted pulls Cam down into his cubicle, talks in a harsh whisper. 
TED I went to see him. 
CAM And?  Then?  So? 
TED Trust me. Something's not right.  I can smell it.  Help me buy a week. 
CAM We're gonna get in such trouble. 
TED I promise from now on you can come along on everything. 
CAM No more Cam goes to the coffee room and Ted disappears for three hours? 
TED I'll try. 
CAM And you'll work on your interpersonal skills? 
TED (a long beat) Yes. 
CAM Good.  Now if you'll excuse me, I'll go start covering your ass. 
69    INT. BARNELL HOME / STUDY - EVENING                                           69 
Paul sits beside his desk, flipping through travel brochures. Margaret enters, teetering in the doorway.  Paul looks up. 
PAUL Hey.  How's my Princess? 
MARGARET OK.  I took some Adavan.  And called my psychic. 
PAUL (picks up the phone bill) Honey, you know how expensive that is.  I thought we agreed that... 
She moves to him, runs her hand through his hair. 
MARGARET Don't be mad.  It's just... this week has been so... well with Raymond getting eaten by animals and someone trying to steal the fridge. 
PAUL I know.  Why don't you -- 
MARGARET We got another letter from the HMO today. 
PAUL Have you opened it yet? 
Margaret starts to CRY, holding the letter up to her face the SOBS building to a full blown breakdown. 
PAUL (cont'd) Oh hey honey, come on now. 
MARGARET I'm sorry.  It's just, fucking cocksuckers. 
Paul takes the letter, unfolds it and reads... 
PAUL "As we have stated previously... usual onset before the age of 18... coupled with no genetic history..." 
TED It wouldn't take much. 
PIZZA GUY Full disclosure to the pizza consumer. I'll be sure to pass that along. 
The delivery guy leaves. 
Ted walks back into the living room.  Tiffany comes over, grabs a slice. 
TIFFANY Why you gotta argue with the service industry? 
TED The problem with people today is they don't expect anyone to tell the truth. We've just come to accept lying as acceptable. 
TIFFANY If this is another passive/aggressive shot at Psychic Buddies, all our ads state "for amusement purposes only." 
TED Tiff, it has nothing to do with... look, just forget it. 
TIFFANY You remember being amused, don't ya, honey? What is with you anyway? 
TED Want to know what's "with" me?  I'm on the verge of cracking the biggest case of my career, one that corporate has to notice, and nobody gives a crap. Not my boss, and not even my girlfriend. 
TIFFANY So this is my fault? 
TED No, it's not your fault. I just want to live somewhere where road hazards don't have antlers and the pizza doesn't have to be delivered by dogsled. 
Tiffany storms off as Ted flops onto the couch, swipes the snow from the top of the pizza box and hits play on the DVD. 
EDWARD G. ROBINSON "What kind of outfit is this, anyway?  Are we an insurance company or a bunch of dim-witted amateurs to write a policy on a mug like that?" 
Tiffany turns from the bedroom door, almost in tears. 
TIFFANY You know, even though Edward G. Robinson wins, everyone like Fred MacMurray better. 
She SLAMS the door.  Ted doesn't move, lost in his own world. 
72    INT. MRS. WHERRY'S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - DAY                                  72 
Ted and Mrs. Wherry sit on plastic covered furniture.  The mounted heads of several dozen dead animals, foxes, wolves, elk, surround them.  Ted takes notes. 
MRS. WHERRY It was terrible.  Just terrible. Raymond should have known better. 
TED (re: the mounted heads) All these yours? 
MRS. WHERRY Greatest sport on earth.  Moved to a compound bow two years ago. (whisper) Arthritis.  Less draw weight. 
She mimics pulling back an imaginary bow with her bony hand. 
MRS. WHERRY (cont'd) Coffee OK? 
TED I'm fine.  Did you talk to Raymond at all when he came home?  Was he getting along with his brother? 
MRS. WHERRY No.  Only saw him the once.  Never spoke.  Waved to him. 
TED Waved? 
MRS. WHERRY He was clearing my driveway.  Raymond was a real hellcat when he was younger.  But like they say, time mellows even the hardest soul. 
TED Was he much of an outdoorsman? 
MRS. WHERRY I thought it was Paul at first.  Have you met Paul's wife?  Now there's a story.  Not that I'm much for gossip, but I think Raymond used to have a -- 
TED Mrs. Wherry, I'm sorry, but -- 
MRS. WHERRY Sorry.  Did Raymond like the outdoors.  Not so much, no.  Liked living out here at the cabin, though. I think he had some friends on the police force. Have you talked to them?  They'd pull up here day and night, always looking for -- 
TED I'm sorry, did you say you thought it was Paul who did your driveway? 
MRS. WHERRY Well in a ski mask you can hardly tell who's who. Now, how 'bout some jerky?  I've got it drying out back. 
73    INT. INSURANCE OFFICE - DAY                                                   73 
Ted at his cubicle, thinking hard as he chews on some jerky as he works the phone.  Snow whips by outside the window. 
TED (just waiting to cut in) That's really super, Simon.  Now how'd you like to run some names for me? 
Ted sees Cam reflected in his dark computer screen.  Annoyed, he puts his hand over the receiver. 
TED (cont'd) You mind? 
CAM Now, now.  Let's not forget who's pulling double duty. 
TED (hanging up) Simon, I'll call you back. (to Cam: forced) Sorry. 
TED (surprised) Really? 
PAUL Well, they've been asking me to talk some more about Raymond.  I thought now might be an appropriate time. 
TED And you'll just happen to mention your heartless insurance company that hasn't paid off your policy yet. 
PAUL I had to borrow money for the casket, Mr. Ted. 
TED You are breaking my heart. 
PAUL No, I doubt that.  They asked me to bring some photos of Raymond.  Guess it's gonna be a pretty big story. 
He pulls out some shots of his brother.  They whip around in the wind and blowing snow. 
PAUL (cont'd) Of course, we could walk over there together.  You could tell them how deeply moved you were by this tragedy and how... the check is on its way? 
Ted thinks, grudgingly impressed with Paul's ploy. 
TED Enjoy your press conference, Mr. Barnell. 
Paul stuffs the photos back in his pocket and walks down the hill.  Ted watches him go, is about to leave when a gust of wind forces him to avert his eyes. Looking down he sees a photo of Raymond Barnell, on the beach in swim trunks.  Must have fallen.  Ted pockets it and moves on. 
A76   INT. GARY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                                                A76 
JIMBO That's your plan? 
GARY How tough can it be? 
JIMBO You ever try digging through six feet of half frozen sod?  We'd need a back hoe.  Can you operate a back hoe?  Do you know where we'd get a back hoe?  We don't even know for sure... 
GARY Oh please.  Don't you think it's a pretty neat coincidence? 
JIMBO Maybe we just go explain it to Dave. 
GARY He won't take it well. 
JIMBO Then I'm all for new options, here, Gary. (beat)  If we give the money back-- 
GARY Hey, wait a minute, now.  We did the job.  We deserve the-- 
JIMBO I did the job, Gary.  I know, because I haven't been sleeping for the last week. 
GARY I don't know why you're letting it get to you like this. Look, let's just not rush into anything.  It's my turn to step up.  I know that.  I'm on it. 
They look on as Paul is interviewed by the reporters. 77    OMITTED                                                                       77 
78    INT. PAUL'S HOME / KITCHEN - MORNING                                          78 
Margaret washes down some pills with her morning coffee as she looks at a fawn in the backyard, nibbling on a bush. 
MARGARET Hey little, Bambi.  Where's your Mommy?  Gettin' it from some ten point buck.  Yes she is.  Yes she is. 
Just then, a THUMPING sound from the garage causes the fawn to bolt. Margaret turns, suspicious.  She picks up the portable phone as she moves toward the door. 
79    INT. GARAGE                                                                   79 
Gary sticks his head inside the now unchained fridge, grabs a can of soda from the door rack and closes the door.  A moment later, he reopens the door... 
There, hanging off the frosty inside, is a chunk of the dead man's hair and scalp.  Gary pulls it off, not sure what it means, but sure it means something. 
Unseen behind him, Margaret steps into the garage.  She quickly assesses the situation. 
MARGARET Stay away from our fucking appliances. 
Gary spins, shocked to see Margaret. 
GARY Lady, just calm down. 
Margaret, eyes wide with fear, unleashes a hailstorm of soda cans, knickknacks, gardening implements and anything else she can lay her hands on. 
GARY (cont'd) Hey!  Would you... Lady... I have a-- 
He tries to close in on her, but the torrent of stuff (a rake, a Whipper-Snipper, an old pair of skates...) keeps him pinned down.  Finally, he manages to grab his gun from his pocket.  But even as he raises it... 
A Bissel Handvac catches him flush in the face. 
GARY (cont'd) Sud of a bit! 
He drops to his knees, grabbing his nose, which is now gushing blood. Margaret reaches for her portable phone and starts punching numbers. 
MARGARET You are in so much trouble. 
GARY Yeah.  Maybe. (a possible idea) You see the whirlpool tub? 
JIMBO You can't be serious. 
GARY It could be like a little getaway. 
Off Jimbo, considering this. 
83    EXT. BARNELL HOME - NIGHT                                                     83 
Paul pulls up, hits the garage door opener and drives in. 
84    INT. BARNELL HOME / KITCHEN                                                   84 
Paul walks in from the garage, pulls off his jacket. 
PAUL Hey Maggie-magster.  How ya -- 
Paul stops short as he sees Margaret, Gary and Jimbo sitting around the table. Margaret's mouth is taped shut. 
Paul is about to lunge at the men when Gary slides his gun into view.  He stops. 
PAUL (cont'd) What are you people doing in my house? 
GARY Mr. Barnell.  You have something that belongs to us. 
PAUL I, I don't know what you're talking about. 
JIMBO Do you remember a dead man you found in the dumpster behind your office? 
Paul, shocked, tries to hold it together. 
PAUL No, I can't say that... I mean that would probably stick in my mind a... dead body. 
GARY Think hard Mr. Barnell. 
He tosses the frozen lock of hair onto the table. 
GARY (cont'd) Think hard. 
Paul realizes he's screwed, gestures to the living room. 
85    INT. BARNELL HOME / LIVING ROOM - LATER                                       85 
Gary sits on the sofa as Paul paces. 
GARY I thought it might be some weirdo sex thing, ya know?  But you look like a pretty straight arrow.  So then I'm thinking, maybe it's a scam.  Maybe somehow our friend is worth some money to you. 
Paul face lets Gary know he's dead on. 
GARY (cont'd) So what'd you collect? 
PAUL We, we had a life insurance policy on my brother.  It was for... 100,000 dollars. 
GARY You know, it's always you quiet guys.  Here's how it's going to work.  We stay here with your wife, you go get our guy. 
PAUL Here? 
GARY We even see you or a cop even roll past, she's dead. Plus you'll have to explain how you scammed the insurance people out of their hard earned money.  We'll call you in three days. Have the body and, let's say 50,000 dollars for our trouble.  Screw with us, we start mailing your wife back to you. 
Gary pauses for dramatic effect. 
GARY (cont'd) Starting with her feet. 
86    INT. KITCHEN - LATER                                                          86 
Gary walks in on Jimbo and Margaret, still gagged. 
JIMBO He gone? 
Gary nods, well pleased with himself. 
GARY He was scared.  Really scared. 
JIMBO You used the feet thing, didn't you? 
GARY No. 
87    INT. TED'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                                                  87 
Tiffany comes through the door carrying a sack of groceries. 
MARGARET Oh, I'm faking it?  Is this how you get your kicks, you over-compensating pussy little fart sack? 
Gary, suddenly tense, puts down his spoon and picks up his gun. 
GARY Hey!  Keep your voice down or the gag goes back. 
MARGARET You don't scare me.  If something bad was going to happen, my psychic would have told me. 
Gary awkwardly chambers a round, starts gesturing with the gun, trying to look tough. 
MARGARET (cont'd) You put that down now you little bitch, or so help me, I'll start yelling so loud you'll have to shoot me. 
Gary, confused and embarrassed, doesn't know what to do. 
89    EXT. BARNELL MOBILE HOME - NIGHT                                              89 
Paul gets out of his car carrying a K-Mart bag.  He looks like he's been CRYING.  Mrs. Wherry waves from her deck. 
MRS. WHERRY Paul, sorry to hear about your brother. (Paul gives a sad smile) You moving in? 
PAUL Just for a bit. 
MRS. WHERRY She'll come to her senses.  They always do.  Oh, the septic lines are frozen, so you'll have to use the outdoor commode. 
Paul waves as he enters the mobile home, closing the door behind him.  A light goes on.  It starts to snow. 
90    INT. BARNELL MOBILE HOME - NIGHT                                              90 
Paul walks in, survey's the interior of the mobile home. 
PAUL'S POV:  A 7 year old time capsule of a party that was never cleaned up; beer bottles, ashtrays and general garbage. 
PAUL (to himself) Would it have killed you to clean up before you left, Raymond? 
Paul picks up a small box from the floor, looks at the label.  Edible Panties.  He puts them on top of a stack of porno mags, neatens the pile, then heads out. 
INT. BEDROOM - LATER 
HIGH ANGLE ON: Paul lying in bed, wide awake, but in the same position we've seen him in when he sleeps with Margaret.  An electric heater glows beside him. 
91    EXT. BARNELL MOBILE HOME - CONTINUOUS                                         91 
TIGHT ON: Car tires as they pull to a stop on the main road.  A pair of heavy men's boots get out, start to make their way toward the mobile home. 
92    INT. MOBILE HOME - LATE NIGHT                                                 92 
There's a KNOCK on the door.  Paul heads to the door. 
PAUL Who is it? 
MAN'S VOICE (O.S.) State Police.  Is there a Mr. Barnell here? 
PAUL (as he unlocks it) Yes, is there something wrong-- 
As he opens the door a crack, a gloved hand shoves it open.  The force of the blow sends Paul staggering backward, landing in a heap against the wall where a picture of his family tumbles over and shatters on his head. RAYMOND BARNELL (40s), a bear of man, enters, picks up Paul and throws him through the serving kitchen serving hatch.  Raymond leans through the hole. 
RAYMOND Hello brother. 
He walks around, takes a copy of "USA Today" and throws it at Paul. 
PAUL Raymond?  Is that... 
RAYMOND Page 16, Paul. That's why I love "USA Today", news from every fuckin' state.  Don't you want to read it?  I was eaten by wild fuckin' animals.  But ya know, despite that, I'm feeling pretty God-damned chipper. 
Paul beats a hasty retreat, stumbling through the mobile home with Raymond right on his heels. 
PAUL Raymond, let me tell you what happened here.  We all thought you were... 
RAYMOND Dead?  Yeah, I got that impression. 
PAUL But you had dropped off the face of the earth. 
RAYMOND And you just decide to make it permanent? 
PAUL But there were no records of you anywhere.  I checked. 
With that, Raymond kicks his brother hard in the ribs.  Paul doubles over, gasping for breath. 
RAYMOND In certain lines of quasi-legal employment, using your actual ID can be a hinderance.  But despite the reliance on aliases, it's nice to have your actual birth certificate to fall back on.  Gotta tell ya, Paul, I was pretty pissed. 
Raymond is about to kick him once more, but Paul puts up a hand, begging him to stop.  Raymond, relents, then bends over and helps his brother to a sitting position. 
TED You are a liar and thief. 
Paul stabs his shovel into a snow bank, then walks to Ted. 
PAUL You know Mr. Watters, I've had a pretty rough night, so if you wouldn't mind just leaving. 
Paul tries to guide Ted away, but slips and falls on the snow.  Ted, rolling his eyes, reaches down to help him up. 
TED (noticing the bruises) Hey.  How'd you get all cut up? 
MRS. WHERRY (O.S.) What's say you just move away from him. 
Ted, with his hands still on Paul, turns to see -- Mrs. Wherry, from her porch, a compound bow aimed at his forehead. 
MRS. WHERRY (cont'd) You all right there, Paul? 
PAUL I'm fine, Mrs. Wherry.  Just go back inside. 
MRS. WHERRY I can drop him if you want. 
PAUL I'm fine.  Really. (turning to Watters) I think you'd better go. 
Ted backs to his car, gets in and drives off.  Paul brushes the snow from his jacket, reaches up, touches his bleeding forehead (the fall having reopened the wound). 
MRS. WHERRY I've got some fishing line if you want me to stitch that. 
Paul waves her off, then stares at the blood on his fingertips.  An idea slowly takes hold. 
95    INT. BARNELL MOBILE HOME - MOMENTS LATER                                      95 
Raymond pours whiskey into a 7-11 specialty cup as Paul  pulls off his coat. 
RAYMOND He give you the check? 
PAUL No.  He thinks I...  It'll be fine. 
RAYMOND Maybe I'll pay him a little visit.  See if we can speed up the process. 
PAUL You don't have to... I figured out a way to take care of things. 
RAYMOND Yeah, I was watching from the window. 
Paul, agitated, pulls the blinds shut. 
PAUL You can't do that, Raymond.  If someone sees you... 
RAYMOND Ya know, I been thinking there, Paulie. 
PAUL About what? 
Raymond walks over to Paul.  Paul tenses, expecting to be hit.  Raymond moves right by to refill his drink. 
RAYMOND After we get her back from these guys who grabbed her, you think your wife'll be able to keep her mouth shut? 
PAUL I don't think I... 
RAYMOND Crazy people talk a lot.  And I think if you tell your therapist something, they can use it in court. 
PAUL She's not...  she doesn't have a therapist. 
RAYMOND (taking a slug) Still, might wanna think about it. 
PAUL Think about what? 
RAYMOND You crossed over into the bigs now, Paulie.  Fraud. Consorting with felons.  Got to "cowboy up." 
PAUL Cowboy up? 
RAYMOND Get tough, ya suck-hole.  I'm just saying sometimes a man has to make problematic decisions.  Cull the heard, so to speak. (off his look) Paul, come on, just kiddin' around, here.  Don't be such a fuckin' stick. 
Raymond, an enigma, looks at Paul, then grins -- just kidding.  Paul relaxes. Raymond tenses -- not really.  Paul's not sure how to read his brother as they shoot looks at one another -- sibling rivalry ad absurdum. 
96    EXT. CITY SKYLINE - MORNING                                                   96 
The sky moves from dark grey to light grey, then stops.  A thermometer outside on an office tower shows a brisk minus 20.  Workers bundle themselves against the cold, hurry to work past the drifts piled alongside the road. 
97    INT. INSURANCE OFFICE - MORNING                                               97 
Ted walks in, throwing his coat over the wall of his cubicle and is about to sit down when he notices Paul in his boss' office.  Ted moves closer. 
PAUL (MUFFLED) I haven't called the police yet, but I'll tell you it was certainly tempting. 
Ted has left the office, SLAMMING the door behind him. 
100   INT. INSURANCE OFFICE STAIRWELL - MOMENTS LATER                              100 
The door CLANGS shut behind Paul as he dials his cell phone. 
PAUL Hello... yes, I'm wondering what city department would be in charge of... sure, I can hold. (to himself) Hang on Mag Pie, just hang on. 
Paul puts a hand to his chest.  Suddenly dizzy, he drops to his knees and starts to RETCH.  Tears well up in his eyes.  After a few moments, the storm passes. Still on his knees, the person on the line comes back. 
PAUL (cont'd) Yeah, hi.   I was wondering if you could.... but I was... sure. 
He sits there, on hold again, waiting... 
101   INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING AREA - EVENING                                      101 
Ted walks to his car.  As he opens the door -- WHAM!  A fist to his face drops Ted.  Raymond in a ski mask, picks him up, opens the car door and lays Ted's head on the door jamb. 
RAYMOND Listen you little prick, we've had just about enough of this.  You get me? 
Raymond leans onto the door, Ted SCREAMING as his head is squashed in the vice. 
RAYMOND (cont'd) So let's just settle this right now, OK?  We want what's coming to us. 
Ted tries to say "yes."  Raymond releases his grip on the door, leans down and grabs Ted's wallet and walks off. 
102   OMITTED                                                                      102 
103   INT. BARNELL MOBILE HOME - NIGHT                                             103 
Paul walks in on A LOUD PARTY.  Raymond, drunk out of his head, has his arms around two marginal looking HOOKERS. 
PAUL Ray - 
Not wanting to use his brother's real name. 
PAUL (cont'd) Richard!  What in the blazes are you doing? 
RAYMOND Hey Paul.  Took care of our little problem today.  We should see some serious money any time, soon. 
PAUL Could... I have a word with you? 
104   INT. BARNELL MOBILE HOME / KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS                              104 
Paul pulls the sliding door closed behind Raymond. 
PAUL (whisper) Are those...? 
RAYMOND (serious) Prostitutes? (laughing) I sure as hell hope so, cause Jehovah's Witnesses won't lick your lolly no matter how much you pay them. 
PAUL How did you get them here? 
Raymond pulls out the credit card Paul got for him. 
RAYMOND Put it on my plastic.  See, got my name on it and everything.  It's every where I want to be. 
PAUL You can't use that.  You're supposed to be dead! They'll track us down. 
RAYMOND You think they give a shit who pays the bill?  Think for a minute, will ya? 
Paul turns, trying to compose himself, when he notices  a handgun sitting out on the counter. 
PAUL What... Raymond, what is... this? 
Paul pokes at the gun, sending the barrel spinning around to face him. Raymond grabs it and stuffs it into his pants. 
RAYMOND That's "muh gun," Paul. 
Paul's cell phone RINGS. 
RAYMOND (cont'd) Don't be long.  The little spinner's yours. 
Paul picks up the phone as the party revs back up. 
PAUL Yes, hello.  Sorry, what? 
105/106 INTERCUT:  BARNELL HOME / KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS                         105/106 
Jimbo is on the wall mounted phone. 
JIMBO You having a party, Mr. Barnell? (embarrassed for Margaret) That's... that's not right. 
The lights are back on as Paul, wearing his oversized red parka comes through the front door carrying his sack of cash.  Avis looks up. 
AVIS Mr. Barnell?  I didn't expect you back today.  Nice jacket. 
PAUL Well... I am.  And Avis? 
AVIS Yes? 
PAUL You've been with me for five years?  Paul?  Can we make it Paul? 
Paul enters the back room, closes the door.  Avis walks over. 
AVIS Sure.  I just thought it was more professional when people were around to call you Mr. Barnell. 
PAUL (O.S.) Avis.  There haven't been any people in here for months.  No one comes in here, unless they're looking for pornographic movies or deep fried fish, neither of which we carry.  So you can call me pretty much anything you want and it won't impress the customers at all because we don't have any. 
AVIS Are you OK, Paul? 
Paul opens the door.  Avis is surprised to see billowing clouds of down floating in the air behind him. 
PAUL No Avis, to be frank I'm a little frazzled right now. Now could you get me some tape, my passport out of the safe and two open-ended tickets to Paraguay. 
Paul shuts the door.  Avis gets to work. 
118   INT.  COFFEE ROOM - DAY                                                      118 
ARNITH and BILL, two city workers, sit sipping coffee at a cafeteria table.  The room is white, very clean and fairly new.  The men wear large orange overalls, their white construction safety helmets sit on the table beside them. 
ARNITH Trouble is the city keeps cutting us back and cutting us back. 
Raymond and Paul, wearing his big red parka, enter. 
PAUL Excuse me, are you Arnith? 
ARNITH sips his coffee, points to his name patch but doesn't look up. 
PAUL (cont'd) Great.  I was told to give you this. 
Paul hands Arnith a folded form.  Arnith puts his hand out, forcing Paul to move the form to him.  As Arnith looks at it. 
PAUL (cont'd) Disinterment order.  Got it from the coroner's office. My brother didn't want to be buried. 
ARNITH How'd you know? 
PAUL Know what? 
ARNITH That he didn't want to be buried. 
RAYMOND He left it in a letter. 
ARNITH And you just got it now? 
PAUL Ya know, I don't mean to be rude here, but I'm not sure this is any of your business. 
ARNITH That's entirely possible. 
Bill stifles a LAUGH.  Raymond is about to tear out Arnith's spine.  Paul holds his brother back. 
PAUL I, I don't think this is anything to be flippant about. 
ARNITH I appreciate that, Sir.  But I'm on a union specified break right now, which means you are talking to me as a private citizen. Now as a private citizen I can pretty much say whatever I want to. If you talk to me in 15 minutes I can assure you, you will be afforded every courtesy as specified in the workers policy guide and recently ratified in our latest collective agreement dated -- 
PAUL Sorry.  I'm just -- 
ARNITH Trying to get your brother out of the ground. We couldn't be more pleased.  You've arranged for transportation of the remains? 
RAYMOND We're gonna take him to go. 
BILL See, now that's a problem.  We can't release the body into your custody unless you are licensed by the state to convey deceased persons. 
ARNITH Good point Bill.  Bill knows exhumation policy.  You can look it up but I'm betting he's right.  You come back with a bonded agent and we'll get right on this. 
Paul thinks for a moment, digs into his pocket pulls out five crisp, new hundred dollar bills and SLAMS them on the table. 
PAUL I'll give you five hundred dollars to go get him now. 
119   EXT. GRAVEYARD - DAY                                                         119 
A large back hoe TURNS OVER.  The muffler BELCHES a cloud of black smoke into the air.  Arnith is at the controls, expertly maneuvering the shovel end towards the unmarked grave. 
120   INT. TRUNK OF PAUL'S CAR                                                     120 
PAUL They said it'd be in tomorrow by -- 
RAYMOND Right, right, you told me.  Then all we have to do is get her and the thing... Hey, remember that time in school, when I jumped out and scared you, and you fucking pee'd all over yourself? 
PAUL Was pretty funny. (raises his mug) Bottoms up. 
RAYMOND Okay, "Puddles."  Remember how they called you that?  Huh, "Puddles?" (about to drink - then) Christ, what time is it? 
PAUL It's early.  Come on... ya... (uncomfortably) ...pussy. 
Raymond LAUGHS, takes the drink. 
127   EXT. BARNELL MOBILE HOME - CONTINUOUS                                        127 
A beautiful winter's night, the soft snowy silence broken only by Raymond's drunken shot of... 
RAYMOND (O.S.) Pussy!!! 
A startled rabbit scurries across the snow. 
128   INT. BARNELL MOBILE HOME / VARIOUS - LATER                                   128 
Raymond is passed out on the sofa.  Paul sits, gun in hand, the barrel pointed at Raymond's forehead.  His finger grazes the trigger...  but it's suddenly all too real.  Paul lowers the gun, takes a deep breath and tries again.  Not wanting to be sprayed by Raymond's gray matter, he half turns his head...  Another idea comes to him.  Paul picks up a plastic picnic plate to use as a shield from the blow back. 
He gets ready to fire again, then makes the mistake of looking at Raymond. Maybe it's the light... maybe it's the small puddle of drool on the cushion, but he looks almost angelic.  Paul stares at his brother. 
In the kitchen, Paul fills a glass with water, empties the pistol's bullets into The cup and hides it on the top shelf. 
Paul puts the gun back.  Not sure of his next move, he spots the beat up clock radio lying next to his brother. 
A128  EXT. BARNELL HOME - MORNING                                                 A128 
Establishing. 
129   INT. BARNELL HOME / BEDROOM - MORNING                                        129 
Margaret, still tied up, lays on top of the bed covers. 
Gary walks past, looks in, checks his watch, then heads to the bathroom. 
Margaret listens as Gary turns on the jacuzzi tub jets.  As he starts singing, Margaret sits up and scooches over to the phone on the end table.  Her hands tied loosely to her chest, she manages to dial by placing the phone receiver flat on the bed. 
JIMBO (O.S.) Gary!  You seen my shirt? 
Margaret looks over to see Jimbo, wearing Paul's pajamas, walking past while shaving with a portable razor.  As the line rings. 
JIMBO (O.S.) (cont'd) Aw jeez, again? 
GARY (O.S.) It relaxes me.  You know it has twelve different settings? 
JIMBO (O.S.) No Gary, I don't know that because every time I thought about using it someone was in it. 
GARY (O.S.) Hey, I do a lot around here. 
As they continue to squabble, the phone line connects. 
911 RECORDING You have reached 9-11.  All our operators are busy, but your call will be handled in the order in which it was received.  If this is a -- 
Margaret, using her nose, hangs up. 
132   INT. BARNELL MOBILE HOME / LIVING ROOM                                       132 
Paul, quiet as a mouse and dressed in his money-lined parka, picks up his cell and his car keys, drops them quietly into his pocket.  Just as he finishes... 
RAYMOND (half asleep) What's going on. 
PAUL We're out of coffee.  But I'll be right back.  Still early. 
Not to worry.  Raymond has already rolled over. 
133   INT. BARNELL HOME / BEDROOM                                                  133 
Margaret has just dialed another number.  It RINGS on the other end... And RINGS... And connects. 
MARGARET Paul? 
AUTOMATED VOICE (O.S.) The number you have dialed is no longer in service. If you think you have -- 
Margaret disconnects the call, then dials again. 
134   INT. TED'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS                                            134 
Ted's car pulls up at the far end of the lot, about 200 yards from where Paul, Gary and Jimbo are parked.  Paul's car is in between Ted's car and Jimbo's. 
Paul gets out of his car, as do Jimbo and Gary.  Paul looks for Margaret in the back of Jimbo's car, but she remains lying down on the backseat. 
JIMBO Mr. Barnell.  I'll assume you've got our friend back there? 
PAUL Yes.  You can let her go now. 
153   INT. TED'S CAR                                                               153 
Ted looks at Paul's car, too far away to see much.   He's about to get out when Tiffany stops him. 
TIFFANY (gently) So, do you have a plan here? 
TED I'm gonna go talk to him.  You mind staying here? 
TIFFANY I guess.  So when do we call the cops? 
TED Soon as I... if he actually is doing... something.  I'll wave, alright? 
Tiffany gives him a quick kiss. 
TIFFANY That's a very good plan. 
Ted's about to jump out of the car, but has to pull back his door as another vehicle slides in beside them, the driver locking his brakes and sliding into the snow embankment. 
TIFFANY (cont'd) Tourists. 
Ted, a confused look on his face, looks over as Raymond gets out of his vehicle. 
TIFFANY (cont'd) What? 
TED That was... 
TIFFANY Who? 
Ted, too excited, fumbles with his seat belt as he tries to jump out of the car. 
154   CORPSE'S POV: FROM PAUL'S OPEN TRUNK                                         154 
Black.  The lid opens.  Jimbo, Gary and Paul look in at the frozen body.  Jimbo recoils at the mangled mess before him.  Gary reaches down and touches the well-chewed body. 
GARY How do we know it's him? 
PAUL Come on!  Where would I get another one? 
Good point.  Paul hands him the ransom money. 
155   OMITTED                                                                      155 
156   EXT. PARKING AREA                                                            156 
Ted rushes up beside Raymond. 
TED Excuse me.  Aren't you... Raymond Barnell? 
RAYMOND I know you? 
TED (confused) You're... You're dead? 
Raymond shoots him a look... Clearly this was taken as a threat.  Ted can't help but step back. 
TED (cont'd) That came out so wrong. 
Raymond sizes up Ted, then looks off to Paul's car. 
RAYMOND Go away, now. 
Raymond walks on.  Ted, realizing he has no choice, runs and jumps in front of Raymond, blocking his way. 
TED Okay, I don't know exactly what's going on here, but if you would come with me to my office, just for a few minutes, it would really help me out with my boss. 
Raymond steps around Ted.  Ted stays with him. 
TED (cont'd) Look, I'm not trying to screw with your life at all, but you can't just walk off with a million dollars and expect people to-- 
RAYMOND (stops cold) How much? 
TED See, your brother has, and I use this term carefully, stolen a million dollars from my insurance company. Now if we-- 
Before he can finish, Raymond hits him with an elbow to the temple.  Ted drops to his knees, but even as Raymond tries to walk off, Ted manages to grab his ankle. 
RAYMOND (cont'd) Oh put it down, Nancy. 
GARY You first. 
JIMBO Gary!  Just -- 
Raymond drops his gun to his side.  Gary smiles, too happy he won the face off. 
RAYMOND You win, tough guy. 
Gary, trying to be cool, flips the gun to his other hand.  As he does-- BANG!  The bullet rips into the snow about six feet from Raymond's feet. 
Raymond glares at Gary.  So does Jimbo. 
GARY (meek, apologetic) Sorry. 
Jimbo lunges for cover as Raymond FIRES back.  Gary, truly terrified, closes his eyes as he squeezes off shots on the run -- BANGBANGBANGBANG. 
One bullet bounces off Paul's car.  One hits Raymond.  With a quizzical look on his face, he drops to his knees.  A large crimson stain forms on his jacket. Everything goes quiet, except for the sounds coming from... 
Paul, almost crazed with grief, cradles his wife's body. 
PAUL Oh God... Oh Jesus... 
MARGARET (muffled) Oh fucking hell... I can't... breath. 
Paul gently turns her over.  Margaret, alive, unharmed but winded, tries to catch her breath. 
MARGARET (cont'd) Paul...  Someone kicked me. 
Paul feels around the bullet hole and pulls out a stack of money, now embedded with the slug from the Raymond's gun.  He starts to weep tears of relief. 
PAUL Can you stand. 
MARGARET Is... The Pope... a... 
PAUL Okay, easy... 
Gary is behind the other car with Jimbo. 
GARY (starting to lose it) He just, fell... Oh Jesus, oh God. 
Jimbo gently takes Gary's gun. 
JIMBO I know. 
As Jimbo puts an arm around Gary and helps him to the car, he sees Paul, arm around Margaret, coming their way.  Everyone stops.  A look passes, then both couples move off. 
161   EXT. PARKING AREA - CONTINUOUS                                               161 
As Jimbo and Gary drive away, Paul brings Margaret to his vehicle.  Spotting Raymond, he walks over, kicks the gun away, then leans down.  Raymond's not dead, but he's close. 
Paul has to turn away. 
RAYMOND (laboured) Look at me, you little... 
Paul turns back, not angry, not frightened, just a little sad.  Raymond, taken aback for a moment, tries for one last verbal shot, but all he can manage is... 
RAYMOND (cont'd) Puddles. 
And Raymond dies. 
162   EXT. PARKING AREA - CONTINUOUS                                               162 
Paul turns back to his car when he spots a delirious, damaged Ted stumbling toward him with Tiffany desperate to drag him the other way. 
TED Where do think you're going? 
TIFFANY Ted, leave him alone. 
TED No, no, no.  I have been beaten, humiliated, had my head squeezed by a guy... and I am getting some answers, right now. 
Ted, barely able to stay on his feet (concussion) gets in front of Paul, and just stands there and waits.  Paul can't help but feel bad for the guy. 
PAUL Okay. 
TED Well go ahead. (re: his left ear) I can still kind of hear out of this one. 
PAUL (a long pause) I love my wife, Mr. Watters.  And when you love someone, I mean, really love someone... 
The punch hits Paul on the top of his head.  He stumbles back, but Ted is on him before he can move out of range.  It's a strange looking fight between the younger (physically spent) and older (emotionally drained). 
