"BIRTHDAY GIRL" 
Screenplay by 
Tom Butterworth and Jez Butterworth 
FADE IN: 
In a Russian summer meadow, a young girl spins around and around. A simple guitar theme plays as the low sun catches her hair. Around her neck is a pair of field binoculars, and she runs through the meadow with them pressed to her face, spying butterflies, birds, rabbits. She reaches the top of a hillock, and jumps into the air, and flies up into the sky. We float up and up with her as she aims the binoculars up, up, into the sun. 
FADE THROUGH SUN TO: 
An aerial shot of the rolling English countryside. Nothing but fields and trees for miles. The shot describes a panorama before looking directly down, at the earth, and we begin to move. 
We fly low over a field, a ditch and straight out over six lanes of motorway. Cars and lorries tear below at a hundred miles an hour. We fly over the hard shoulder to another field beyond. 
We descend on two young boys in the field. A pornographic magazine is spread out of the flattened grass. One of the boys puts a match to the centre page and as the flames lick up, we begin to move again, across the field, over a path and into a suburban garden. 
We fly over five or six gardens, over a barbecue, over children splashing in a pool, over a woman sunbathing, a man mowing his lawn, a young boy bouncing up and down on a garden trampoline, to arrive on the patio of John Buckingham. He walks out onto the patio, where he sits in a chair, facing his house, setting down a mug of tea. 
CUT TO: 
A blurred face sharpening into focus, John Buckingham, about thirty-two, sitting on his patio, his garden behind, fields beyond. 
JOHN Hello. 
His hand adjusts a microphone on his lapel. 
JOHN Hello, hello. Hello... 
He shifts in his chair. Coughs. He looks straight at us. 
JOHN I don't believe in perfect love. You know, love that comes out of the sky like a thunderbolt and uh... This is ridiculous. 
He removes the microphone. He sits there, thinking very hard. 
JOHN No. No no no. Nope. 
He stands, turns and stretches. 
BLACKOUT: 
FADE UP: 
He is sitting as before, looking at us. 
JOHN Running. Reading. Going out. Staying in. The countryside. Films, if they're good. 
BLACKOUT: 
FADE UP: 
JOHN Thoughtful. Outgoing. Ambitious. Well-read. Reasonably popular. Balanced. Trusting. Quite attractive. Outgoing. 
BLACKOUT: 
FADE UP: 
JOHN Someone intelligent, of course. Kind. Pretty I suppose. But its not critical. 
EXT. JOHN'S STREET - DAY 
John watches while two removal men lift a new double bed from the back of a van. 
JOHN (V.O.) Someone with a sense of humour. Someone you can communicate with on the same level. Someone you can really talk to. I think communication is key. 
INT. BEDROOM - DAY 
John's hands smooth a crisp white sheet over the double mattress. An ant runs across the sheet. John squashes it and picks it carefully off. 
JOHN (V.O.) I think that by the time most people turn thirty they know where they're going. 
They shake hands. 
JOHN Welcome. (pause) Well. Look I didn't have a speech but... 
A distorted passenger announcement breaks above us. It's too loud to talk. It ends and they stand there in silence. He points to her luggage. 
JOHN Is that everything? 
NADIA Yes. 
JOHN Right. Okay. Good. 
They stand there. 
INT. AIRPORT LIFT - DAY 
Nadia and John stand side by side in a huge lift. 
JOHN We can talk in the car. 
A deafening roll of thunder. 
EXT. AIRPORT CAR PARK - DAY 
It's pouring with rain as they cross the car park towards a patched up yellow Rover. John stows the suitcase in the boot and opens the passenger door for her. 
INT. / EXT. JOHN'S CAR (MOVING) - DAY 
John turns the key in the ignition. The MG wheezes and coughs. He tries again. Nothing. The third time it just catches and he coaxes it to life. The colour's drained from his cheeks. 
They head for the motorway. The silence in the car lasts just long enough for John to feel he is breaking it. 
JOHN It's about forty miles from here. I don't know if you've looked at a map, it's close to London but it's a city in itself. A Roman city. It's a nice house. I'm having a problem with ants. I uh... It's the warmer weather. I can't seem to find the nest. Sorry, do you understand "ants"? 
NADIA Yes. 
JOHN I just can't find a nest. The root of the problem. I've looked everywhere. What's the Russian for ant? Sorry that's a stupid... Sorry. This is strange isn't it. 
NADIA Yes. 
JOHN I'm pretty nervous. Are you? 
NADIA Yes. 
JOHN I mean... "Ants." "I've got a problem with ants." 
He shakes his head. 
JOHN I had this... 
He pulls a sign from his jacket which says "Nadia!" 
JOHN As a joke but uh... 
He tosses it onto the back seat. 
They drive. He sees Nadia looking at England. 
JOHN So. Is it different to how you imagined it? 
NADIA Yes. 
JOHN I bet. (pause) What about me? Am I how you imagined? 
NADIA Yes. 
He double-takes, changes lanes. 
JOHN And how was the flight. Sorry, am I speaking too fast for you? 
NADIA Yes. 
INT. SPARE BEDROOM - DAY 
Nadia peers around the door to find John standing next to a narrow monk-like single bed. 
JOHN The uh... the other bedroom... 
She looks at it, then up at John. She turns and walks out. 
Now she's back, with her camouflaged hold-all, dumps it onto the floor, heaves the suitcase onto the bed and smoking no- hands, starts unpacking. John plugs in the lamp by the bed. To show Nadia how it works he switches it on, off, on, off, and then feels stupid. 
JOHN I'll get an ashtray. 
With John gone, Nadia stops unpacking. She walks to the window and stares out over the rooftops of the estate. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LOUNGE - DAY 
John on the phone. 
ANSWER MACHINE You have reached From Russia with Love. Our office reopens on Monday. If you are interested in our services... (etc. etc.) Thank You. 
JOHN This is John Buckingham from St Albans. I need to speak to you urgently. There's a critical problem. It's... Call me back as soon as possible. It's critical. 
INT. STAIRS / LANDING - DAY 
John climbs the stairs holding a saucer for an ashtray. He knocks lightly on the spare room door. 
INT. SPARE ROOM / LANDING - DAY 
Nadia is lying asleep on the bed in only her black underwear. We duck straight back out. 
John composes himself. He puts his head back round the door as if there's a real chance it will be shot off. She's facing away, arms folded, still holding the cigarette. It has burnt out, leaving a long curl of ash on her bare hip. 
He approaches the bed with immense trepidation, eases the cigarette from between her fingers and drops it in the bin. He stares at her bare hip, with the ash on it. Holding the saucer under the ash, he blows on it gently. It takes three careful breaths before it drops in the saucer. Unseen by John, her eyes are wide open as he steals out onto the landing. We stay with her a moment. 
CUT TO: 
A pot of stew, bubbling on the hob. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
John is stirring a pot on the hob. By his expression he might be defusing a bomb. 
His head cocks, he stiffens. Nadia walks right into the kitchen. She's changed, jeans and a tee shirt. Nadia takes the spoon from him, says something in Russian, gestures for him to sit. 
She tastes the stew. Now she stirs the pot. He watches her. 
CUT TO: 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
John and Nadia sit opposite each other. She takes a mouthful. They catch one another's eye. And again. 
On the wall across, six ants careen in crazy circles. John can see them, but doesn't move. 
He puts his fork down. 
JOHN I don't know what to say. Your letters were in English. Good English. You said you'd studied English. 
Nadia reaches down into her bag and pulls out a small box wrapped in brown paper. She places it in front of him. 
He warily unwraps a little wooden box. He opens the lid and fishes out a simple gold ring. He holds it in his palm. 
JOHN I can't take this. 
He puts it back in the box, hoping it will disappear. 
She fishes it out again and holds it on her palm for him to take. 
JOHN I can't take it. I'm not really a ring guy. 
John lying in bed staring out at a streetlight. 
INT. NADIA'S ROOM - DAY 
The morning. Nadia opens her eyes in the sun-filled room. 
INT. LANDING - DAY 
She pads down the hall in her nightshirt and opens the door to the bathroom. There on the toilet, naked, is John. He gives another short shout. Nadia holds his eye for a couple of seconds too long, before shutting us inside with him. 
EXT. JOHN'S GARDEN - DAY 
John sprints down his lawn, scattering the big black crows eating his garden. He jumps the fence, and across the fields. 
EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY 
John jogs along by a river in the countryside behind his house, wearing shorts and a tee shirt. His breath billows around him in the sharp morning air. 
He stops running by a gate overlooking a small hill. He doubles up to recover, panting hard. 
INT. JOHN'S GARDEN - DAY 
Two wild rabbits are nibbling the remains of a big breakfast left on the lawn. John climbs heavily back over his fence. 
There's a deck chair out there, surrounded by the remains of breakfast. Some glossy Russian magazines, a full ashtray, Nadia's knitting. 
The patio door is ajar, the net curtain billowing. He scans the garden jumpily. The boy next door is on his trampoline, bouncing up and down, watching John at the top of each bounce. 
INT. JOHN'S HOUSE - DAY 
Sweating from the run, John peers up the stairs. The house is silent. In the lounge he picks up the phone and dials a number. 
ANSWER MACHINE You have reached From Russia With Love. If you are interested... 
He hangs up. 
INT. LANDING - DAY 
John stands with his ear to the bathroom door. The shower's on. 
INT. NADIA'S BEDROOM - DAY 
It's empty. He slips inside. 
Stuff everywhere. Cigarette cartons, several lighters, spare wool, suitcase, rucksack. Huge poster of Bruce Springsteen on wall. 
Warily, he opens the bedside drawer: Different coloured bras and knickers. 
In her open suitcase lies a small wooden chest. He lifts it out and puts it on the bed, hesitates, then opens it. 
A pair of Russian Army field binoculars. He puts them on the bed beside him. A small silver pistol, the size of a Derringer. He studies it, and pulls the trigger. It's a cigarette lighter. 
A brochure of prospective husbands provided by the marriage agency. After a dozen or so photos he comes across his page but the photo has been cut out. He sees his name in the strange lettering, under the hole. 
INT. BATHROOM - DAY 
Nadia in the shower, eyes shut, water pouring over her face. 
INT. NADIA'S ROOM - DAY 
John flicks through a stack of photographs. One of Nadia as a young girl in a meadow, with binoculars around her neck -- John looks at the same binoculars on the bed next to him. He turns them over in his hands. 
He looks through them. He slowly lowers them. He's seen something. He stands and crosses the room. 
On the mantelpiece, in a silver frame, is his picture, cut from the brochure. He holds it in his hands. 
The shower has stopped. In a panic he replaces the picture, the photographs, the gun lighter, the brochure, and the binoculars. 
INT. LANDING - DAY 
Nadia leaves the bathroom, hair wrapped in a towel, and heads straight towards us. 
BRANCH MANAGER (V.O.) Initiative. John is reasonably quick to volunteer whenever others need help. Although he is sometimes reluctant and or unwilling to ask for it himself... 
She opens some pickled onions and pops one in her mouth. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY 
Cradling the jar of onions, she scans his bookshelf. 
BRANCH MANAGER (V.O.) He is adequate at resolving difficult or emotional customer situations... 
Bluffers guide to the Internet. She opens an old copy of The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe. Inside is written 'John Buckingham Class 3F'. 
BRANCH MANAGER (V.O.) He usually fulfills commitments made to customers within expected time frames. 
INT. JOHN'S BEDROOM - DAY 
She opens the wardrobe. In a shoebox she finds some photos. 
BRANCH MANAGER (V.O.) Customer Service. John shows a high degree of respect for customers... 
One of John as a little boy, holding a football, flanked by his parents. On the back someone has written "Summer 1973". 
BRANCH MANAGER (V.O.) John still has some reluctance to / or has problems in, carving out new relationships face to face. 
There is a photo of John, about three years ago, arm in arm with a plain, thin-looking girl, with small eyes. Another of him kissing her on the cheek. 
INT. BRANCH MANAGER'S OFFICE - DAY 
John listening. 
BRANCH MANAGER Judgment -- John makes able decisions in most areas of his job. 
INT. JOHN'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Nadia sees something at the bottom of the cupboard. She bends down to retrieve a black dustbin liner. She reaches in and pulls out a small stack of hardcore pornographic magazines. 
BRANCH MANAGER (V.O.) John follows instructions conscientiously and responds well to personal directions. 
She upends the bag and a half dozen videos fall out. She picks up a magazine and begins flicking through it impassively. 
INT. LOUNGE - DAY 
Nadia downstairs kneels in front of the T.V. and slips a video into the machine. Nadia's face is lit up by the screen. The sound of sex. 
BRANCH MANAGER (V.O.) John is normally very punctual and in most situations assumes responsibility for his own actions and outcomes. 
She pops a pickled onion in her mouth, and watches. We see the images close and pixellated, as we did the marriage videos in the titles. It's a bondage scene, the woman wears a gag. 
INT. BRANCH MANAGER'S OFFICE - DAY 
John back in the room. The report has finished and the manager is scrutinising him in silence. 
JOHN Thank you -- I think that's very fair. 
INT. / EXT. JOHN'S CAR (MOVING) - DAY 
John drives his Rover through the centre of town, the low orange sun on his face. 
EXT. JOHN'S CLOSE - DAY 
The Rover pulls into the driveway. John opens the glove compartment and removes the ring Nadia gave him, and puts it back on. He collects a brown paper package from the passenger seat. 
INT. JOHN'S KITCHEN - NIGHT 
John and Nadia at the supper table. She is knitting the jumper. Despite the silence, John seems more relaxed, in shirtsleeves and loosened tie. He puts his fork down, and places the brown bag on the table, pushing it across to Nadia. She opens it and removes a big hardback Russian - English dictionary. John smiles and nods "open it". She flicks through it. 
She turns it over in her hands, nods, puts the book down, reaches under the table and surfaces with the stack of porn magazines. She puts them on the table next to the dictionary. 
John beholds the pile. "Wet N' Wild" is on top. 
He rises slowly from the table and sleepwalks from the kitchen. 
Rain coming down in John's garden. The pair sit under the shelter of the back porch. John has his hands out as Nadia is winding red wool it into a ball. The jumper is half finished. 
The rabbits shelter from the rain under broad leaves. 
John in a pub with a four colleagues from the bank. He sips his half, half listening to the conversation. It all seems so dull. He finishes his drink and looks at his watch. They ask him if he's staying for another. 
A knitting needle is drawn from a row of red stitches on the nearly-finished jumper. 
Nadia kneels over John holding the knitting needles. She presses one to his skin and we watch it drawn across his chest in close up, up to his neck. 
His eyes are fixed on hers. 
Close up on Nadia's face. Her mouth is gagged and she's lying on her front, head half-buried in a pillow. We can just make out John behind, on top of her. Both are lying still and breathing hard, covered in sweat. Catching her breath Nadia yanks the gag off and wriggles out from underneath him. She snatches up a towel and covering herself hurries to the bathroom. 
The guitar theme ends. 
INT. LANDING - NIGHT 
John presses his ear to the bathroom door. The sound of retching. 
The toilet flushes. John pads back to his bedroom. Through the gap in the door he sees Nadia coming out, go to her room, and shut the door. He rests his head against the door frame. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LOUNGE - DAY 
A beautiful morning. Through the patio window, John watches Nadia in the garden, sitting on the lawn reading her dictionary in the sunlight. In dungarees with her hair up, she looks very young. 
EXT. GARDEN - DAY 
He walks warily out into the sunlight. She looks up, then back to the big book in her lap. He places the tea next to her on the grass. 
JOHN Are you O.K.? 
She looks at him, then down at her tome. She speaks slowly, in a heavy accent: 
NADIA Today is bath day. 
JOHN Sorry? 
She studies her book. Looks up. 
NADIA Today is bath day. 
He shakes his head. 
JOHN Bath day? 
She nods. 
JOHN I don't understand. 
NADIA Happy bath day. 
The penny drops. 
JOHN Today? 
She frowns. John leafs through the dictionary. 
JOHN Syevodnya? 
NADIA Syevodnya 
JOHN Happy Birthday. Happy Birthday. 
He puts his hand on her shoulder. 
NADIA Party. (pause) Party. Syevodnya. 
John nods, smiling. 
YURI (to John) You don't speak Russian? Pratsteetye! This explains your cold eyes. 
Nadia begins gabbling to Yuri in Russian. Yuri says the English word -- "Friends". 
NADIA (to John) "Frenzy". 
JOHN Yes I know. 
YURI (himself) Yuri. (Rasputin) Alexei. Alexei and Yuri. 
Alexei speaks. 
JOHN What did he say? 
YURI He says he feels safe here. 
Nadia talks fast to Yuri. 
YURI She says she wanted to tell you but her English is shit. And no one speaks Russian, it's very hard for her. The light please. 
Alexei turns off the light again. Nadia blows out her candles. They are plunged back into darkness. John turns the light on again. Yuri is already sitting down. 
JOHN I need to know who you are first please. 
YURI Oh. (Yuri stands) We are Russian. 
JOHN Yes. I know. 
YURI Good. (he sits down) 
JOHN And... 
YURI And what? You mean from the beginning? Jesus. Can I uh okay, as we say in Russia can I cut a long story short. Okay. Nadia is my little cousin. Except she's not. But we say cousin. This is for you. 
He hands John another bottle of vodka. 
JOHN Hold on. 
YURI Toast first then we talk seriously, I can see you are serious about us. 
Vodka is splashed into their glasses. Yuri raises his glass and shouts a toast in Russian: "Vashe Zdarovye!". They down their vodka, John sips at his, then realises he must finish it. Yuri makes as if to throw his in the fireplace. 
YURI Just kidding. 
Sausages, cheese, bread and pickle bottles rain onto the table from Yuri's rucksack. 
JOHN (to Yuri) So hang on. You're both Nadia's cousins? 
YURI (shaking his head) Of course not. Alexei, he's is my problem. 
JOHN Right. 
YURI We better watch him. He's crazy. 
JOHN Right. 
YURI I am actor, he is actor, although he is an actor stroke musician. I just noodle along, I'm not so good. He makes me look like a retard -- He smokes me. I don't mean he smokes me. 
Yuri mimes giving a blow-job. 
YURI I mean he smokes me. Do you say "smoke" in U.K.? 
He mimes the blowjob again. 
JOHN No. 
YURI Right. So I can say he smokes me. So. 
Pause. 
JOHN So? 
YURI "I have these uh..." She explains to you... "When I was a little girl my father had these beautiful old glasses." Like... I don't know the word. Like for watching uh... for watching the birds. 
We see John's face. 
JOHN Binoculars. 
YURI Binoculars. He had these Binoculars he has kept from the war. 
CUT TO: 
Scene 1 reprise. 
EXT. SUMMER MEADOW - DAY 
A young girl runs through a summer meadow with a pair of Russian Army field binoculars, around her neck. 
YURI (V.O.) I would run around with them taking pictures of things I liked with my mind. If I saw something beautiful I would take a picture. 
With the binoculars pressed to her face, she spies butterflies, birds, a rabbit. She stops running and aims the binoculars up, up, into the sun 
INT. JOHN'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Yuri translates. 
YURI The day before I left Russia my father gave me the old binoculars. He said that when I saw you I was to stand far away and look at you with these, and to examine your face closely. And if you were a bad person I could run away. 
Nadia looks at the table. 
YURI She says she took a picture. 
John watches Nadia looking at the table. She glances up once and catches his eye. 
Alexei suddenly slams his hand down on the table. He raises his palm. There is an ant squashed there. He shows Yuri. 
ALEXEI Nasyekski. 
EXT. JOHN'S GARDEN - NIGHT 
The small party has moved outside to the patio, where they sit around a low wooden table in the mellow candlelight. A huge late Summer moon hangs over the fields. Alexei tinkles beautifully on his guitar. 
He stops asks a question in Russian. 
JOHN What was that? 
YURI Oh nothing. 
JOHN Tell me. 
YURI No. It is too judgmental. 
JOHN Tell me what he said. 
YURI He says why did you send to Russia for a wife. 
Silence. John suddenly looks sick. 
YURI You are not ashamed of it? It's no surprise to want to love. 
JOHN No. It's not that. 
YURI Do you believe in love? 
JOHN I suppose it's... I mean define your terms. 
YURI It's very strange. How many people are truly themselves with their love? It is the greatest human disaster and it is never in the newspapers. There are no Marches Against Heartache, no Ministries Against Loneliness, no Concerts Against Disappointment. We look away. And still we know in secret that nothing is more important to us. The one thing we all share but don't say. Look John I will show you something. 
He takes a plate and starts reaching for the food. 
YURI Here look, something beautiful from Russia. Here is Life, there, take it. 
John accepts the plate. 
Next to the rabbit skin is a hand-drawn map. A dotted line winds around the map and ends with an X in a small wood. 
He looks at the rabbit skin, with its eyeless sockets. 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
John follows a path through a big silent wood, the low sun flaring and catching his white work shirt. 
P.O.V. OF JOHN 
through binoculars, a long way off and squinting into the sun. 
Nadia lowers the binoculars and looks past us. 
CUT TO: 
John spots some figures lying on the grass in the distance. He heads towards them, and watches them for a moment from thirty yards away. 
Alexei, Yuri and Nadia sit in a small clearing. A blanket, cushions, bread and vodka are scattered around. Yuri is strumming a guitar. Alexei and Nadia are laughing and chatting. He removes a small twig from her hair and flattens it under his big hand. John watches the gesture. It's so intimate they could be lovers. 
YURI (calls) John. We can see you hiding. 
John steps out of his hiding place and approaches the group. Alexei has Nadia falling about laughing about something. He smiles at her then nods to John. 
Pieces of cooked rabbit lie in tin foil. Alexei feeds a piece to Nadia with a big hunting knife. Nadia smiles at John, and starts knitting. 
YURI How is bank? 
JOHN Fine. I thought you were leaving today. 
YURI To be indoors on such a day. It's crime. 
Nadia stops knitting and takes her shirt off and stretches back to sunbathe in her black bra. Alexei takes the knife he has just finished cleaning and holds the cold wide blade flat above Nadia's bare stomach. Just before pressing it down he looks across at John. Nadia yelps and sits up. They laugh, and Yuri joins in. John laughs uneasily. 
Alexei notices marks on Nadia's midriff. He asks her about them in Russian. 
John goes white, unable to understand Nadia's explanation. He has no idea what she told him. 
EXT. LAKE IN FOREST - DAY 
At sunset, the four run towards a lake in their underwear. They jump and dive in, and begin splashing each other. 
John duck-dives under the water and swims through the sunlit streaked green water. We see him under the water, swimming towards us, caught by the sun's rays. 
John surfaces, and wipes the water from his eyes. He spots Alexei and Nadia playing in the water. Alexei grabs her and throws her in the air and she comes down with a splash. 
John treads water nearby. He watches them both hold their noses and disappear under the surface. 
They've both vanished. John ducks under the water. 
John's underwater P.O.V.: It's too murky to see anything. 
The two surface, breathing hard, laughing. John watches them. 
Alexei holds Nadia tight and looks like he might even kiss her. But instead he ducks her and holds her under the water. 
John treads water nearby. She's been under a long time. 
JOHN Hey. 
John begins to swim toward Alexei. Just as he gets near, Alexei lets Nadia surface, coughing and spluttering -- she shouts at Alexei in Russian, angry. 
Alexei makes for her again but she pushes him away, twice, almost slapping him. She is very uncomfortable. She swims away. 
Yuri admonishes his friend in Russian. Alexei stares at John, then swims off powerfully back towards the shore. 
YURI He's just having fun. He's maybe too strong you know... 
John watches Nadia walk out of the lake towards her clothes. 
INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Alexei and Yuri shout at each other. Nadia begins crying. 
YURI Sit down please. 
John sits across the table from Nadia. 
JOHN Tell him to stop and let her go, and we'll talk. 
The kettle boils. Alexei takes the kettle and holds it over Nadia's head. 
John springs up. 
JOHN Put the fucking kettle down. 
YURI John. 
JOHN Put the fucking kettle down. Tell, Yuri, tell him put it down or I'm going to make him. 
Yuri translates -- Alexei replies. 
YURI He says you scare him so much he must go to the toilet in his trousers. John, he is a soldier. A trained killer. We must do what he says. 
JOHN What? What does he want? 
Alexei speaks. 
JOHN What did he say? Tell me! 
YURI He says you are very sad ridiculous man. I don't agree of course. And that you must pay someone to have sex like a prostitute. Nadia is a prostitute. I'm sorry. 
JOHN What does he want. The Russian shithead. What do you want ? 
YURI He wants money. 
JOHN Tell him to put the kettle down and I'll give him money. 
Yuri translates this for Alexei. Alexei has a reply. 
YURI He wants a lot of money. 
JOHN I'll give him money. Tell him to put the... 
YURI He wants the money from your bank. 
JOHN I'll fuckin' give it to him! We'll go down there. 
YURI You don't understand. He wants all the money that is in your bank. 
JOHN I've got eight hundred pounds. Oh Jesus. 
The penny drops. 
JOHN Oh Jesus. 
YURI He is sure you can do this. Of course you can not. 
JOHN Oh Jesus. Of course I can't. 
Alexei doesn't need the translation he tilts the kettle, and a small amount of boiling water trickles onto Nadia's hair. She screams through the gag. 
John tries to reach across to her but Alexei draws the knife and holds it to his face. 
JOHN Just leave her alone. 
YURI I'm so sorry. 
JOHN Leave her alone. 
CLOSE UP On Nadia's terrified eyes, imploring John to help her. 
INT. / EXT. JOHN'S CAR - DAY 
JOHN Yes. 
BRANCH MANAGER We're starting to see results. This is Karen, who's uh... taking uh... it. 
They say hello to each other and MOSELEY asks her a couple of questions. 
JOHN Excuse me. 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
John nips out and fetches his guitar cases. He rounds the corner, down a couple of steps. He checks himself into the Safe Area. A Colleague passes him. 
COLLEAGUE Morning John. Hey, Moseley's here. 
JOHN I'll give you a tune later. 
INT. SAFE ROOM DOOR - DAY 
John punches in the security code. He opens the safe door and goes inside, closing it behind him. We see his stricken face peering through the toughened glass. 
INT. TRAINING ROOM - DAY 
Robert Moseley falls backwards into the arms of an employee. 
MOSELEY It's weird isn't it. 
A little bored perhaps, Moseley gazes out through the open door. He sees... 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
John bowling out of the safe-room backwards heaving two guitar cases. One bursts open spilling bundles of fifties onto the floor. 
INT. TRAINING ROOM - DAY 
Moseley, the Branch Manager, Clare, and five Trust and Letting Go catchers all watch... 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
John scoops up the money, refasten the case and stand to see them all watching him, as the five Trust and Letting Go fallers crash to the ground in unison. 
EXT. SIDE STREET - DAY 
John hauls ass towards us straight down the middle of the road, a guitar case in either hand, footsteps clapping loudly on the wet cobbles. Alarms sound, dogs bark. 
EXT. STREET CORNER - DAY 
He skis around a corner, and sprints up this other street. We are close by his head, as he sprints one hundred metres. 
EXT. CAR PARK ROOF - DAY 
Running flat out across the car park. Yuri throws open the car door and John hurls the guitar cases inside. He dives in, turns the key in the ignition. The Rover coughs and wheezes. He tries again. It spits and misfires. The third time it catches and lives. John grinds the gears and lurches off. 
INT. MULTI STOREY CAR PARK - DAY 
The Rover hurtles down the ramps. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
It careens down a side-street. 
INT. / EXT. MOVING ROVER - DAY 
Alexei opens one of the cases and looks inside. He takes a deep breath and swears in Russian. 
He shows what is in the case to Nadia. Her eyes widen. 
Alexei gently lowers the gag and kisses her on the mouth. She returns the kiss hungrily. 
John spots them in the mirror and nearly crashes the car. 
He looks desperately across at Yuri. Yuri is now pointing the big knife at John's ribs. The Russian shrugs almost apologetically. 
INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT 
Yuri in the bathroom, he undoes his flies pees. At the other end of the bathroom, tied to the bidet, gagged, is John. 
YURI How you doing? 
John refuses to meet his eye. Yuri flushes and wipes his hands. 
YURI I'll show you something. It should make all this easier I think. 
From his back pocket, Yuri takes out an old envelope. He opens it and removes a dozen or so Polaroids. 
John looks down at the first Polaroid. Nadia, Alexei and a man John doesn't recognise at a birthday party. There is a cake with candles and everyone is smiling. The next picture is the same. And the next. 
Sometimes Germany, sometimes France, but otherwise the pictures are the same, each 'fiancee' beaming with his arm round Nadia, Alexei looking on. 
John studies the faces of his fellow dupes and at last comes to his own picture. Despite himself tears come to his eyes. 
YURI Not all these bastards were like you, believe me. You should not too feel bad. 
Yuri takes John's left hand and pulls off Nadia's ring. He puts it in his pocket. 
INT. MOTEL BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Alexei smokes on the bed. Nadia is lying the other way. She holds her hand out for his cigarette and he passes it. They have the relaxed air of longtime lovers. 
Subtitles again. 
NADIA It's enough isn't it? 
ALEXEI What do you mean? 
NADIA You know what I mean babe, It's enough. We can stop. 
ALEXEI Do you want to stop? 
NADIA Yes. 
ALEXEI We'll stop then. 
They kiss. He takes her hand, and notices the tie marks on her wrists. 
ALEXEI What's this? 
NADIA It's nothing. I burnt myself. 
ALEXEI That's not a burn. 
NADIA It is. I did it cooking. 
They sit there looking at each other. 
ALEXEI On both wrists? 
Nadia looks back at him. The seconds pass. 
NADIA What? I did it cooking. 
Alexei studies her face. She pulls a face. He keeps staring. 
NADIA What? 
They sit there in silence. Alexei is so big, and she is so small. 
NADIA Listen, I made you something. 
Nadia leans over the bed, and searches in her bag. Alexei watches her closely. She comes back up with the jumper she has knitted. 
NADIA Put it on. 
He looks at the jumper, then back at her. 
INT. SMALLER MOTEL BEDROOM - DAY 
Tied to the radiator, gagged with duct tape, is Nadia. 
John looks down at her. She looks away as her eyes fill with tears. 
He sits on the bed facing her. They stay like that for a long moment before he reaches over and starts untying her knots. He peels the tape off her mouth. Suddenly he slaps her across the face. 
Her head hits the radiator. Nadia gasps hard from the shock of the blow. Without warning she slaps his face, equally hard. 
This starts a long silent fight; kicking, hitting, biting, a real struggle. 
Its intensity is almost sexual, but has the edge of real violence. They end up on opposite sides of the room, both panting, hurt and beaten. 
NADIA (in English) Great. You've split my fuckin, lip. 
John lies there on the floor, panting, and he hears the English words. 
Exhausted, John stands, wipes his mouth, and rushes her anew. Nadia dodges out the way and cuffs him painfully on the ear. The whole fight starts again and ends only when neither has the strength to go on. Nadia staggers into the bathroom where she shuts the door and begins to sob uncontrollably. John lies on the bed listening to her cry. 
EXT. DUAL CARRIAGEWAY - DAY 
The mid morning traffic flows by on the dual carriageway. 
INT. HAPPY EATER - DAY 
Nadia and John sit in silence in the half empty diner. Nadia has a cut lip and a graze on her chin. John has a Thousand Yard Stare and a lesion over his left cheekbone. 
The Waitress comes over. 
WAITRESS Good morning. What can I get you? 
NADIA I'll have an espresso, with a small pastry, a croissant or something. 
WAITRESS We only do a croissant with the Continental breakfast. 
NADIA Just get me a coffee. 
WAITRESS One coffee. And for you Sir ? 
John doesn't answer. 
NADIA He'll have a coffee. 
The waitress leaves them. Nadia lights a cigarette and they sit in tense silence, the pain of betrayal, and recent violence, thick in the air. 
JOHN You can't smoke in here. 
Nadia ignores him. John bellows 
JOHN YOU CAN'T SMOKE IN HERE! 
The diner falls silent, people stare. She takes a last drag and crushes the butt on the floor. A waitress comes over and puts down two coffees. 
NADIA I don't expect you to understand. 
It seems as if John has no intention of replying. He sips his coffee, and puts it down. He begins speaking very calmly. 
JOHN Oh, I don't know. In my job as Deputy Assistant of New Business at the bank would have to listen to the problems of a great many individuals. This took a lot of understanding and sympathy, to try to work out solutions to their problems. But, you see, I'm not in that line of work anymore. Nowadays I'm a bank robber. 
NADIA You don't understand anything. 
JOHN I think that about covers it. I think I have grasped the part about you being dumped though. That's got to hurt, I imagine. That's got to smart a bit. I mean strictly in my observer's capacity it seemed you two were getting on Pretty Fucking Famously. 
He sips his coffee. 
JOHN Unless. Unless this is part of the routine. You get tied up, stick around, distract me, they both bust in and Steal My Cup Of Coffee. 
NADIA It's makes it easier. Okay. 
JOHN I don't want to know. 
They sit side by side in the waiting room, not talking. Nadia looks resigned to her fate. John is tight-jawed, unyielding. 
They wait as the the Duty Sergeant deals with a woman who's lost her hat. 
NADIA (quietly, to John) Where's the restroom? 
JOHN What? 
NADIA I'm going to be sick. Where's the... 
JOHN What? No you're not.. 
NADIA I'm going... I am... I'm going to be sick. 
JOHN (overlapping) No you're not. How... Nice one. How dumb do you think I am ? 
Nadia stands and addresses the Duty Sergeant. 
NADIA Where's the restroom? 
SERGEANT The what, love? 
NADIA The toilet. Where's... 
SERGEANT Down there on the left. 
She heads off. John springs up. He seizes her arm as casually as possible. 
INT. POLICE STATION CORRIDOR - DAY 
John frog marches Nadia down the corridor to the Ladies. She wrestles her arm free again and disappears inside. 
John lurks outside. He seems certain she's got one leg out the window RIGHT NOW. 
He can't bear it any longer. He looks both ways and nips inside. 
INT. LADIES - DAY 
Standing in the Ladies, John hears Nadia in a cubicle, throwing up. He hears the toilet flush. 
Nadia comes out. He looks at her. 
JOHN You're pregnant. 
Nadia looks at the floor. 
INT. POLICE CORRIDOR - DAY 
John walks out of the toilet and stands against the wall of the corridor. He looks both ways. After a few seconds Nadia appears in the corridor. They stand there. John isn't looking at her. 
A policeman appears from round the corner, and walks towards them. He stops, and addresses John. 
POLICEMAN Can I help you? 
John looks at the Policeman, then at Nadia. The seconds pass. 
POLICEMAN Sir? Can I help you? 
John is still looking at Nadia -- He closes his eyes. 
JOHN No. 
EXT. OUTSIDE POLICE STATION - DAY 
John walks back to the Rover, Nadia behind. They reach the car. Nadia looks at John over the roof of the car. 
NADIA What are you doing? 
John looks sick. He speaks very quietly. 
JOHN Get in the car. 
INT. / EXT. CAR (MOVING) - DAY 
Nadia puts a cigarette in her mouth and pops the dashboard lighter. John takes the cigarette and throws it out the window, followed by the lighter. Nadia just gazes out of the window. 
JOHN So, uh, Alexei, which I know isn't his name... 
NADIA I don't want to talk about him. 
JOHN Fine. 
NADIA It's none of your business. 
JOHN Fine. Absolutely. Must be disappointing though. Must come as a hell of a shock. 
Nadia ignores him. 
JOHN So uh... 
NADIA Look, if you want to know is he better in bed than you then yes he is. 
JOHN Oh Jesus. 
NADIA If what you want to know is does he have a bigger cock than you, then yes he does. 
JOHN (overlapping -- bigger) Of course. Of course. Of course he does. Of course. Thank you. Thanks. 
NADIA But, you know, so what? 
They drive. 
JOHN It's his baby I take it. 
She doesn't answer. 
JOHN Not the kids type then is he? Not that broody. You must be pretty miffed. 
NADIA He will come back. 
JOHN Excuse me? 
NADIA He left me my passport and ticket. It's pretty clear he wants to see me again. 
JOHN Yeah. I tend to tie up and abandon women I really want to see again too. 
NADIA No. But you tend to tie them up. 
John freezes. He looks across. Nadia gives nothing back. 
JOHN Fuck off. 
Nadia is just looking at him. 
JOHN Fuck off. You started it. 
She is just looking at him. 
JOHN I don't want to talk about it. 
NADIA Why not? 
JOHN Shut up. I'm not listening. 
NADIA You don't want to talk about it. 
JOHN No. 
NADIA Okay we won't talk about it. 
Nadia looks out the window. 
NADIA We'll pretend it never happened. 
NADIA Did she leave you? Come on. It's nothing to be ashamed of. Who did she leave you for? Your best friend? Her boss? A woman? Did she leave you for a woman, John? 
JOHN She's dead. 
Pause. 
NADIA I'm sorry. I didn't mean to hurt you. I'm sorry. That's awful. Forgive me. 
Pause. 
NADIA I'm sorry. 
JOHN I don't know why I said that. She's not dead at all. 
Nadia looks at John. 
NADIA What? 
JOHN I don't know why I said it. I'm sorry. 
NADIA She's alive? 
Nadia starts to laugh. Long and loud. We have never seen her laugh before. 
NADIA She's alive!! She is not dead? 
JOHN Laugh it up. 
She starts to cough. She gets on her hands and knees and coughs like fury. 
JOHN You should stop smoking. You're pregnant. You smoke like a fucking lab dog. 
NADIA I'm trying to quit. 
JOHN I've got news for you. It's not working. 
NADIA I smoke more these days. I smoke more when I'm unhappy. 
JOHN Nobody's that unhappy. 
NADIA Maybe I want to die. Don't you want me to die? 
JOHN I don't want anyone to die. 
NADIA Except for Small Eyes. 
JOHN Except for Small Eyes. 
She laughs again. 
NADIA So why did it end? 
John thinks. It looks as if he's going to tell the whole story. In the end he shrugs. 
JOHN I don't know. 
NADIA What was her name? 
JOHN What's your name? 
The fox cries out again. 
NADIA Listen. It's definitely a fox. Now I'm scared. 
They listen to the fox crying in the night. 
NADIA You know you can come under the blanket. 
JOHN It's alright. 
The scene from bird's eye view. John lies back and stares at the stars. Nadia curls up on the other side of the fire, and hugs herself. 
NADIA What are you doing here? 
John and Nadia look at each other. 
ALEXEI What the fuck is he doing here? 
He looks at the little gun. 
ALEXEI That's that cigarette lighter I gave you isn't it? 
Alexei stands. John takes a step back. Alexei walks calmly towards John and throws a punch. It catches John right on the chin and he hits the wall and goes down very fast. 
NADIA Stop. 
Alexei turns round to see Nadia holding the knife. He is dumbstruck. 
ALEXEI What? What are you doing? 
NADIA (to John) What are you doing here? 
Alexei kicks John in the ribs. 
NADIA (in Russian) Stop it! 
He looks at Nadia, the girl he came back for, angrily pointing the knife at him. He suddenly looks completely punctured. John has struggled up again and stands behind him. They are both looking at Nadia. 
ALEXEI What. You're what? You're with this creep now. 
NADIA Leave him! 
ALEXEI You have. You've actually fallen for this prick. 
NADIA No I haven't. 
Alexei looks dumbstruck. He laughs emptily 
ALEXEI Babe it's me. I won't let you get away. 
Nadia stares back at him. The seconds pass. She speaks in a whisper. 
NADIA I'll kill you if you try. 
In the impasse, John picks up a lamp and hurls it at Alexei's head. It is going to hit him, but reaches the length of its cord and stops six inches short. In the confusion. Alexei grabs Nadia's wrist and forces her to the ground. He grabs the knife, just as John brains him with one of the guitars. It emits a fruity final chord. 
INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR / ALEXEI'S SUITE - NIGHT 
Whistling, Yuri comes out of his suite, knocks briskly on the door of Alexei's and enters. We walk with him down the hallway into the bedroom to find Alexei, heartbroken, tied and bound to a desk chair. 
Yuri murmurs something in Russian. 
SUBTITLE Fuck a duck. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ALEXEI'S SUITE - NIGHT 
Nadia stands at the window and stares at her reflection, or past it into the blackness. 
NADIA Get their passports. 
John finishes tying up Yuri, and removes his passport from his jacket. Behind Nadia another plane arcs up into the night sky. 
He takes Alexei's passport from his pocket, but Alexei is only watching Nadia. 
ALEXEI Don't do this. 
She carefully places tape across his mouth. 
Almost as if having second thoughts she bends down to kiss his cheek. The 'kiss' suddenly makes Alexei's eyes widen in pain. As she stands her lips are bloody. She's bitten him on the cheek. A single streak of blood runs from the gash. 
NADIA (to John) Get your money. 
