Charlie puts his foot up on Nick's fender to tie his shoe. Nick, spotting an ankle holster peeking from Charlie's sock, grabs Charlie's foot.  Charlie teeters. 
NICK What's this? 
CHARLIE Let go... 
Nick pulls out a Beretta 32. 
CHARLIE Back-up. 
NICK Get rid of it. 
CHARLIE Why? 
NICK It's not regulation.  And the only way you're gonna stop anybody with it is to show it to him, and while he's laughing, you can shove it down his throat. 
CHARLIE (looking at Nick's bike) I'll get rid of it when you get rid of the egg-beater. 
The Harley comes to life spitting a cloud of blue smoke. Nick puts on his paint-flecked helmet, slides down some ski goggles. 
CHARLIE Nick, let's go hunting.  Bag Cavello. 
NICK Charlie... 
Nick pops the bike into gear. 
NICK ... You still got shaving cream on your ear. 
Nick rolls out and disappears in a haze of blue smoke. 
EXT.  BELT PARKWAY - VERRAZANO BRIDGE - NIGHT 
WE FIND Nick, a lonely, solitary figure bobbing in and out of the lights and shadows.  The SOUND of wind whips through his helmet; cold air stings his cheeks... The tail lights of Nick's bike disappear into the night. 
EXT.  SUBURBAN STREET - STATEN ISLAND - NIGHT 
Civil service heaven.  Nick hits the cut switch and glides past the manicured lawns and well kept houses of this development.  A basketball net in every driveway, a Buick or Chrysler in every garage. 
One house sticks out.  The lawn is brown, paint is peeling off the garage door and newspapers are scattered on the driveway.  Nick glides once around the cul de sac looking at the house.  His house.  It's as inviting as an open grave.  He shoots away. 
INT.  EL GRECO DINER - STATEN ISLAND - NIGHT 
A hanger sized roadhouse, wall to wall red velvet. 
Nick's the sole figure at the counter, coffee and the Daily News in front of him.  A NURSE walks in and sits down a half dozen seats away.  Nick look up. 
NICK Short shift? 
CONNIE Yeah... I came to save you.  If you're hopeless, I'll pull the plug. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  CONNIE'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Nick and Connie are in bed.  They're both looking up at the ceiling.  They've just made love. 
CONNIE It's getting too cold even for me, Nick. 
NICK Connie... 
CONNIE All right, how's the new partner? 
NICK High spirits, desire, commitment. 
CONNIE You'll take care of that. 
NICK Give me a break, would you? 
CONNIE If you give me one. 
Nick kisses her.  The first suggestion of real affection. The SOUND of someone KNOCKING on the door.  Reluctantly, they stop.  Connie gets up and puts on her robe. 
NICK Are you expecting anyone? 
CONNIE I wasn't expecting you. 
She disappears down the hallway.  We HEAR the door open, then telling someone to wait. 
CONNIE (poking her head in the room) Imagine a small, greasy Boy Scout. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  CONNIE'S APARTMENT 
Nick, wearing only his pants, is doing a slow burn. Charlie is holding his hands up defensively. 
CHARLIE ... I found the goombah... Cavello. He's -- 
NICK -- I should tear your head off. 
CHARLIE Whoa, I knew you were going to say that.  I absolutely anticipated that, Nick.  But I said to myself, Charlie, Charlie, we can move up on this, so go find Nicklaus... He'll be pissed for a moment, but then it'll dawn on him -- 
NICK -- Hey, I got a better chance of being hit by a bus then moving up. 
Charlie looks away momentarily, letting it slide.  He knows he's on sensitive ground. 
CHARLIE 
his hand close around the grip of the Beretta.  He unsnaps the ankle holster.  The SNAP can be heard across the room. Nick's hand closes around Charlie's and squeezes till the knuckles turn white. 
CHARLIE (in a whisper) What are you doing? 
NICK Saving your life. 
NUMBER TWO 
levels the scattergun at Nick and Charlie. 
AT THE TABLE - NUMBER ONE 
calmly holds the blade at the man's throat as he reaches into the man's jacket and removes a small, rectangular, plastic-wrapped parcel. 
He feels its weight, then flips it to NUMBER TWO. 
Abolofia, realizing that whatever is going on doesn't affect him or his, resumes eating. 
ABOLOFIA You people are wild... Wild. 
NUMBER ONE backs the blade off.  The man raises his napkin to the small wound.  A droplet of blood has stained his shirt collar.  NUMBER ONE turns around as if to leave. 
What happens next could be a whim, an after thought. Number One spins around and THRUSTS the blade deep into the man's chest.  He withdraws it with a half twist, and in the same motion fatally slashes the translator's throat before the old man's body hits the floor. 
Blood pours from the businessman's mouth onto his Scungilli, spreading across the white cloth and onto the floor. 
CAVELLO 
reaches for a gun under his coat.  But NUMBER TWO pumps two rounds into his face.  At this range, there's not much left. 
The killers slowly back out the door, covering the room with the scattergun.  The minute the door shuts, Nick leaps up, pulling his shield and revolver. 
NICK (shouting) Police officers.  Everybody stay put. (to Charlie) Get back up. 
Abolofia's eyebrows rise at this development. 
Nick bolts out the door leaving Charlie in charge.  He's never been in charge before. 
CHARLIE (nervously showing shield) Police. 
EXT.  THE LIME HOUSE - NIGHT 
A Lincoln tears around the corner to pick the killers up. 
Nick flies out the Lime House door and hits the ground. 
Number Two pumps out shells as fast as he can squeeze the trigger.  He's wild.  The front windows of the Lime House shatter. 
The LIMO DRIVER jerks to a halt.  Number Two tosses the package to him. 
Nick empties his revolver.  Number Two goes down. 
The driver floors the accelerator, leaving Number One to take off on foot.  Nick follows, reloading as he runs. 
INT.  THE LIME HOUSE 
Everyone's frozen on the floor. 
CHARLIE Call 911.  Tell them an officer needs assistance.  Say ten thirteen. 
Nothing from the owner who looks at Abolofia.  Charlie grabs the owner by his collar and shoves him toward the phone. 
CHARLIE Do it, you dumb bastard! 
Suddenly Charlie feels something wet at his feet.  He looks down to see that he's standing in a pool of blood from the massacre.  So much for his new shoes. 
He wheels around, then quickly backs out the door. 
EXT.  STREET - DOWN THE BLOCK FROM THE LIME HOUSE 
Deserted.  The wail of police sirens in the distance. Charlie has his gun out.  He's drenched in sweat.  Where is his partner? 
CHARLIE NICK...!  Shit... SHIT!! 
CUT TO: 
ANOTHER STREET - ALLEY - NIGHT 
Nick, gun drawn, slowly rounds the corner to the alley: it's the ad hoc drugstore for the night.  Drugs going up and down in pails, two dozen junkies buying, shooting, slumped on the ground.  Everyone scatters -- the one's that can. 
AN ABANDONED PAIL 
swings slowly back and forth from three stories up.  Nick cautiously moves down the alley, holding the gun in both hands.  A Junkie steps out of a doorway, Nick swings his gun and nearly blows him away. 
NUMBER ONE 
We see his eyes first as he steps out of the darkness at the back of the alley.  From now on we'll call him KOBO. His sunglasses are on his forehead; his hands dropped casually at his side.  A very cool character. 
Kobo slowly raises his hand, and making a gun with his finger, slowly points and "shoots" at Nick... He lowers his hand. 
NICK On the ground, man.  NOW!! 
Kobo cups his hands around his ear.  He doesn't understand English.  Nick, keeping his gun fixed, comes up to him and kicks out his legs. 
INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM 
ABOLOFIA is seated in chair next to his LAWYER.  Nick, Oliver, and a third detective are grilling him. 
ABOLOFIA He was with a friend, sure.  I shake hands with the guy and a minute later he's bleeding all over my socks. 
ATTORNEY Will that do officers?  My client has had a terrible shock. 
NICK Yeah, he's not used to seeing other people do the killing. 
ATTORNEY I won't tolerate harassment! 
OLIVER What about the package? 
ATTORNEY We know nothing about it. 
Silence.  Abolofia looks at Nick, then at Oliver. 
ABOLOFIA Hard to believe a trained police officer could let this kind of thing happen right in front of his face. 
NICK I did make a mistake.  I let the wrong guy get hit. 
Abolofia doesn't blink an eye, goes for the jugular. 
ABOLOFIA Cheer up, Nick.  I'm sure it's easier to pick a dead man's pocket. 
Nick springs from his feet.  Oliver grabs Nick before he can get close to Abolofia. 
ATTORNEY That's it, we're through! 
CUT TO: 
KOBO 
the Japanese killer who smashed in Nick's face last night. He's sitting in an interrogation room an hour later with a DETECTIVE and a JAPANESE TRANSLATOR.  He won't talk. 
OBSERVATION ROOM 
Nick and Oliver watching through the glass. 
OLIVER Doesn't speak a word of English. And he won't speak Japanese either. No papers.  The Japanese embassy is very interested. 
NICK Why? 
OLIVER He's wanted in Japan.  They want him first.  Then we can have him. 
NICK What? 
Oliver nods.  That's the way it is. 
ON KOBO 
he turns and looks at Nick.  He can't possibly see him through the one way glass but he knows Nick's there. 
ON NICK 
looking at him. 
ON KOBO 
making a cutting mark across his forehead, right where Nick's bandage is.  It's uncanny. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  OLIVER'S OFFICE - LATER 
Nick is sitting in front of Oliver's desk.  The sunlight makes him wince; wincing makes his face hurt. 
OLIVER Japanese embassy talks to state department.  State talks to police plaza.  They to me and me to you. Shit rolls down hill. 
Oliver drops a file folder on the desk.  Nick opens it: petty cash, vouchers and plane tickets. 
OLIVER You and Charlie are taking the Jap home, tonight. 
NICK What...?  What if I say no? 
OLIVER Check your gun before you leave. They're not allowed in Japan.  It's a nice, safe country. 
NICK Why me? 
OLIVER They said send a detective if I could spare one. (then) I can always spare you. 
Nick bridles at the insult.  Oliver's had a hard-on for Nick for years, and Nick's tired of it. 
NICK (soft) You got something to say to me, Captain? 
Oliver doesn't want to get into it. 
OLIVER Yeah.  Have a wonderful flight. 
CUT TO: 
THE ORANGE SUN 
on the tail of a Japan Airlines 747.  A driving rain storm.  The plane taxies down the runway and disappears into the black rain. 
NICK You going to take this crap off our hands? 
NAGASHIMA (confused) Crap...?  Oh, the prisoner.  Yes. 
He barks some orders to the officers who immediately take Kobo by the arms and put cuffs on him.  Nick unfastens his cuff when they're through. 
In contrast to Nagashima's gentility, the cops are rough with the prisoner. 
CHARLIE (extends his hand) Charlie.  Kon-ich-iwa. 
Nagashima shakes his hand.  Bows.  Charlie bows back. Nick wouldn't bow if his life depended on it.  Nagashima hands Nick an official looking document. 
NAGASHIMA If you will please give this to the customs inspector he will expidate -- expedite you.  We have a car and a driver outside. 
NICK Right. 
CHARLIE (bows) Arigato. 
Nick grabs Charlie by the arm and starts for the customs line. 
NICK Givin' you a book is like givin' a baby a gun. 
CHARLIE Hey, when in Rome -- 
NICK In Rome, I'll bow. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  CUSTOMS BOOTH - DAY 
NICK and CHARLIE make their way through the crowd toward the head of a long line.  They dump their bags on the counter.  The INSPECTOR, furious that they have taken cuts in line, barks at them in Japanese. 
NICK Inspector Nagashima told me to give you this. 
He hands the Inspector the official looking document.  The Inspector scans the paper.  Hands it back to them. 
INSPECTOR (broken English) You must get in line behind the rest. 
NICK We're cops.  Pol-ice-men. 
The Inspector signals a nearby POLICEMAN.  The Inspector says something in Japanese.  Hands the policeman the document.  The policeman shakes his head, amused, points to the end of the line. 
NICK Fellas, get serious. 
From off screen someone CALLS OUT: 
MAN (O.S.) Nick! 
Nick and Charlie turn to see KOBO, their prisoner, standing on the other side of the thick plastic divider. The handcuffs are off.  The three alleged 'policemen' are heading out the door behind him.  It was a set-up:  Nick and Charlie have been had. 
KOBO (perfect English) Thanks for the ride, detective. 
He slowly backs away from the glass as if he had all the time in the world, finally disappearing in the crowd. 
CUT TO: 
NICK AND CHARLIE 
trying to shove past the customs inspectors who are wrestling them aside. 
NICK Cops!  He's our prisoner! 
Two more policemen arrive.  Nick and Charlie are thrown up against the wall.  Out come the cuffs.  SNAP! 
NICK What's going on?  We're the good guys! 
CUT TO: 
INT.  TOKYO POLICE HEADQUARTERS - DAY 
Fifty identical desks.  Fifty identical phones.  Fifty identically dressed men in white shirts and ties working under the fluorescent lights of this large open room. 
We GLIDE PAST the rows of desk to find INSPECTOR OHASHI, mid forties, sitting behind a perfectly arranged desk. Ohashi prides himself on order. 
Nick and Charlie are standing in front of him. 
NICK Get me something like an Identi-Kit and I'll give you a description. 
Ohashi remains poker faced.  He continues to arrange papers and apply his hanko (personal seal) to the bottom of a stack of official papers. 
CHARLIE There must be some witnesses from the airport? 
Still nothing from the good inspector. 
NICK What is it, tea time? 
Still nothing from Ohashi.  Finally: 
OHASHI (quiet rage) You lost a man we wanted for some time.  It was very incompetent on your part, officer. 
NICK Incompetent is letting people waltz through a secure area wearing your uniforms, carrying official documents. 
Ohashi bows slightly, we're not sure why. 
NICK I want a gun. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  SIDE STREET - MINIMAI MURAMATSU - NIGHT 
The jammed streets are barely wide enough to get a motorcycle down.  It's a bad neighborhood, one of the poorest in Tokyo. 
We spot the small kimono clad WOMAN, clip-clopping on wooden geta, leading Nick and Charlie through this labyrinth. 
CHARLIE (looking around) Getting very weird. 
NICK I'd feel better if we had some heat. 
CHARLIE Maybe we should bail? 
Seeing they've stopped, the woman gestures for them to hurry up, then disappears around the corner. 
NICK (looking at the maze of streets) Think we could find our way back? 
CUT TO: 
A GARISH PINK SIGN - PINK SARON BAR 
A poor man's idea of a bar.  The woman points inside, chirps away in Japanese, bows, then hurries off leaving Nick and Charlie on their own. 
INSIDE PINK SARON 
Nick and Charlie disappear into darkness as the woven flaps shut behind them.  A vintage wurlitzer juke box glows across the room.  An Enka plays.  (Haunting Japanese blues.) 
MAN'S VOICE (FROM THE DARKNESS) Big shots from New York.  I like your style! 
ICHIRO MATSUMOTO steps into a pool of light just inches from them.  He is a short overweight man looking every minute of his fifty-five years.  His white short sleeve shirt is too tight; his narrow tie spotted in the middle; his collar soaked in sweat.  He's not drunk yet, but he's been at it a while.  Call him Ich. 
ICH (bowing) Detective Ichiro Matsumoto.  I'm the man you're looking for. 
This is Ohashi's best man?  Well, at least he speaks English. 
ICH The man you are looking for, Kobo, was a member of the Samaguchi-gummi. A Yakuza. 
Ich nods, offers them what's left of his Sapphoro beer. They shake their heads.  Ich finishes it. 
NICK Where do we start looking for this guy? 
ICH Where would you look for the mafia? 
CHARLIE The back room at Lombardi's after the Columbus Day Parade.  Under the bed.  In the mayor's office. Everywhere. 
Ich heads for the door without saying a word. 
NICK Where're you going, Ichiro? 
ICH (stops, faces them) The mayor's office, under the bed, the back room at Lombardi's. (tucking in his shirt tail) And call me Ich. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  ICHIBANKAN BAR BUILDING - KABUKI CHO - NIGHT 
Imagine an ultra modern indoor shopping mall, except there aren't any stores.  The only product sold here is pleasure:  Bars, hostess clubs, Turkish baths.  A post- modern red light district with music piped in and automated doormen. 
INT.  LAS VEGAS WELCOME CLUB 
Hip, younger Japanese are wedged together at the long chrome bar.  The GUYS sport leather jackets and Raybans. The GIRLS are decked out in fifties American party dresses and short cropped hair.  Jerry Lee Lewis wails in the background. 
Nick, Ich and Charlie are at one end of the long bar.  Ich is drinking them both under the table. 
ICH (singing) "Goodness, gracious, great balls of fire." (raising glass for toast) To the killer.  Jerry Lee Lewis. 
NICK (checking his watch) Jerry Lee Lewis, Elvis, Dinky Doo And The Don't's.  Let's book, Charlie.  If he starts on Motown, we'll be here all night. 
ICH No, this is the place for the young Yakuza. 
NICK That's what you said in the last three piss pots. 
Ich sets down his drink, pours more sake for Nick and Charlie then for himself.  He's having a great time. 
ICH I love you people.  The music, the clothes, the movies... Japanese respect only what is Japanese. 
Nick glances at Charlie. 
NICK It's incredible.  Hit him or something. 
CHARLIE I don't think he'd feel it. 
ICH (beginning to slur his words) Americans change everything.  When I was young the city was wood and paper... I was ten when the bombers came.  I lived underground for three days.  When I came up, the city was gone... A ball of fire. 
Nick gets to his feet.  Ich grabs him by the arm, stopping him. 
ICH It began to rain, Nick.  You know what color the rain was? 
Ich doesn't give him a chance to answer. 
ICH Black... It was black from the ash. Very impressive.  You Americans, you could make black rain. 
Ich polishes off his drink.  An awkward silence.  Charlie, wanting to lighten the mood -- 
CHARLIE (leaning close) Say Ich, between friends, where can I grab some squish around here? 
Suddenly, the street is empty again.  Silent except for the SOUND of the wind beating against paper lanterns, rustling the wind chimes... 
Hold on Nick and Charlie standing in the middle of the street, realizing just how far away from home they are. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT.  HOTEL - THE NEXT MORNING 
A rocket shaped building:  a mixture of Dutch Gable and Japanese Minka roof.  The mid-day sun beats down on a particular room. 
INT.  HOTEL ROOM 
Nick and Charlie are sacked out.  They never bothered to pull the curtains.  THE SOUND OF KNOCKING at the door. 
ICH (O.S.) Nick! 
NICK Give us a break... 
ICH (O.S.) It's Ichiro.  Ich. 
NICK Leave the rice cake outside and go home! 
But Ich persists. 
AT THE DOOR 
As Nick opens up.  Ich bows.  He's now clean shaven and has put on a clean shirt. 
ICH There's been a murder.  Yakuza.  You should come. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  PRINTING PLANT - DAY 
The murder scene.  NO SOUND. 
A SERIES OF SHOTS: 
A BODY FROM THE WAIST DOWN in the claws of six foot working robotic.  The tattooed covered legs swing back and forth like a pendulum. 
THE TORSO is wedged in between two enormous printing rollers. 
THE HEAD is resting in the middle of a conveyer belt. It's been drenched in black printer's ink which has begun to congeal. 
WE SLOWLY TRACK PAST Ich, Charlie, and Nick, watching. Charlie has the dry heaves. 
REAL SOUND as we reveal the full crime scene.  Instead of the usual cigar smoke, camera flashes and radio chatter, there is order and quiet.  A slow underwater dance. 
INSPECTOR OHASHI 
quietly gives an order.  Someone turns off the robotic. The severed legs stop swinging. 
Nick, Charlie and Ich walk over to Ohashi.  Ich bows deeply.  Ohashi doesn't acknowledge any of them, talks to a man holding a tape measurer. 
NICK Could you fill me in? 
OHASHI Why don't you ask your chief detective? 
Ich looks down at the floor. 
NICK Because I want you to tell me. 
OHASHI The young are eating the old, something that usually doesn't happen here. 
NICK Can we skip the poetry, inspector? 
Ohashi pauses.  Ich looks at Nick as if to warn him he can't speak to Ohashi that way. 
OHASHI There's a war, detective, between two rival groups.  The man who escaped, Kobo, leads the younger group.  They did this. 
ICH Kobo's a wild boy.  He was a lieutenant in the Sammaguchi-gummi. 
OHASHI (in Japanese) Excellent, Officer Matsumoto.  How is your investigation going? 
ICH (in Japanese) Well, sir.  Thank you for giving me the opportunity to work with these distinguished gentlemen. 
He bows.  It's pathetic. 
POLICE LIEUTENANT Looking for clues in the bottom of a sake bottle, Matsumoto? 
Laughter all around. 
OHASHI He's an officer of great distinction. 
Another sarcastic dig.  Ich stoically stands and takes it. 
CHARLIE Hey, Ich has been helpful. 
OHASHI (ignoring him, to Nick) Have you changed your mind and decided to go home, detective? 
NICK Not until one of us bags Kobo. (looking at the corpse) And it doesn't look like you're doing so hot. 
Ohashi coolly flicks the ashes of his cigarette and we -- 
CUT TO: 
Nick is close enough to see, too far to do anything.  He's blocked by TWO MORE LEATHER BOYS.  He tries to shove past, but they grab him. 
KOBO 
holding Charlie by his coat lapels.  An express train tears into the station.  Kobo casually glances at 
NICK 
trying to struggle free. 
KOBO 
his eyes still on Nick, drops Charlie in front of the speeding express as if he were a sack of laundry. 
NICK 
NICK NO!! 
A woman SCREAMS. 
The train barrels through the station. 
Kobo starts toward Nick.  He's next. 
A pair of SUBWAY POLICEMEN burst through the crowd searching for Charlie because he vaulted the turnstile. 
NICK 
manages to break free of the leatherboys holding him. They flee into the crowd as the police close in. 
ACROSS THE PLATFORM - KOBO 
slips into the wave of commuters being shoved into a train by white-gloved MEN.  It's their job to shove commuters into the already packed cars. 
Nick goes for Kobo, but the crowd closes in front of him. He can't get through. 
THE SUBWAY DOORS 
slam shut.  The train pulls out leaving Nick standing on the empty platform. 
THE LAST CAR 
streaks past him.  Kobo stands in the rear window, getting smaller and smaller until the train disappears down the tracks. 
ICH Nick! 
Ich, out of breath, is standing on the platform.  Nick looks at him with disgust -- where the hell was he. 
STAY on Nick, his head bowed, being surrounded by the sea of blue-suited commuters. 
FADE TO WHITE. 
FADE IN: 
NICK'S FACE against a white wall.  That's all we see. Ohashi's voice OFF SCREEN. 
OHASHI (O.S.) ... You ignored me.  I don't care about what you want.  Get on a plane, detective Conklin.  Go home. 
We HEAR a door open and SLAM shut off screen.  Hold on Nick, frozen in place, then: 
CUT TO: 
INT.  CENTRAL SECTION - TOKYO POLICE H.Q. - DAY 
Again, the fifty desks, fifty faceless men working. Typewriters CLACKING, phones RINGING.  We MOVE down the rows to find Nick sitting behind one of the desks.  He's on the phone to New York. 
OLIVER (V.O.) (PHONE) It's not your job. 
NICK He was my partner. 
OLIVER (V.O.) (PHONE) They're blaming it on you.  Christ, Conklin, you didn't even tell me you lost the prisoner! 
NICK I planned on catching him, Captain. 
OLIVER (V.O.) (PHONE) How?  You don't know the place.  You don't know the language.  Get on the plane. 
NICK He killed a police officer. 
OLIVER (V.O.) (PHONE) Your plane's at nine a.m.  Be on it. That's orders.  Period. 
Oliver hangs up.  A moment of long distance hum cross talk.  Nick doesn't move.  Pull back through the rows of cops busily working... SOUND FADES. 
Charlie Parker's alto sax FADE UP as we -- 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  SHINJUKU - NIGHT 
The MUSIC continues.  The sax screams as the melody is abandoned. 
Nick is drunk.  Roaring angry drunk.  He doesn't know where he is.  He doesn't care.  He plows down the street, occasionally grabbing a passerby, then letting them go. 
Nick begins to laugh.  A couple is staring at him, Nick yells at them, but we DON'T HEAR HIM.  He stumbles on... drop back to find. 
ICH 
EXT.  NARITA AIRPORT 
The brightest object in the frame is a yellow forklift carrying a jostling aluminum coffin toward the open belly of the cargo plane.  Nick watches it from the edge of the tarmac. 
AIRPORT CHECK IN GATE 
Nick hands the clerk his ticket. 
NICK ... Smoking. 
CLERK Aisle or window? 
Nick spots a folded newspaper someone has left on the counter.  He can't read it, of course, but there's a picture of the subway platform where Charlie was killed, swarming with police.  Nick continues to stare at the paper. 
CLERK Aisle or window, sir? 
NICK (looks up) I want to cash it in.  Yen. 
CUT TO: 
ICH'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Nick steps in, drops the two suitcases. 
NICK Ichiro? 
The woman steps out of the kitchen, babbles something in Japanese.  Nick doesn't have a clue. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  LAS VEGAS WELCOME BAR - AFTERNOON 
Only a handful of patrons.  Joyce is straightening bottles behind the bar. 
NICK (O.S.) What's tricks? 
She looks up, surprised to see Nick standing in front of her. 
JOYCE Ich said you left. 
NICK There was a change in plans. 
Beat. 
JOYCE I'm sorry about your friend. 
Nick's surprised at how fast she heard. 
JOYCE Dead gaiijin's are big news. 
NICK Gaiijin? 
JOYCE An outside person.  A foreigner.  A barbarian.  You, me. (beat) More you. 
NICK I could use some help.  Show me around.  I'll pay you for your time. 
JOYCE I don't give tours. 
Nick smiles. 
NICK You can count on the truth from people who don't like you. 
JOYCE You have a helluva way of asking for help. 
NICK You have a helluva way of answering. 
Draw. 
JOYCE Look, you need Ich.  I've been here five years and I still can't read all the street signs. 
NICK Maybe I'm a quicker learner. 
JOYCE I don't think so. 
From OFF SCREEN: 
ICH (O.S.) Nicklaus-san. 
Nick turns to see Ich, leaning against the door frame. He's already had a few drinks too many.  He's delighted to see Nick. 
ICH I've continued working on the case! 
NICK I can see that. 
Ich ambles into the room, slips down into a chair.  He spills the contents of the large manila envelope he's been carrying onto the table:  a wallet, a set of keys, playing cards, etc. 
ICH (signaling to Joyce) Joyce... A drink please. (to Nick) Kobo has disappeared.  My superiors don't trust me. 
Nick walks over to the table and looks at the items. 
ICH Kobo's.  Taken off him when he was arrested in New York. 
Nick sits down.  Joyce gives Ich his scotch. 
ICH I knew you'd come back.  You feel you have a debt you can never pay. But you will, even if it costs you your life.  Giri.  Honor. 
NICK (to Ich) Now we're making progress. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  SEIBU DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY 
CLOSE ON A SALESGIRL behind the cosmetic counter.  She is wearing the store uniform:  blue and white dress and white gloves.  A doll.  We shouldn't recognize her at first. Then -- 
INSERT A PHOTO 
one of Kobo's porno pics.  It's the same face. 
REVEAL NICK 
holding the photo, standing in the crowded store.  Ich is beside him. 
NICK That's Kobo's girl?  He's sure? 
Ich glances back at the man in the Hawaiian shirt standing by the door.  The man nods. 
ICH He's sure. 
They watch the girl help a customer choose an eyeliner. 
ICH Nick, no one's seen Kobo in three days.  He might not even be in Tokyo. 
NICK Only one way to find out... Get her up in the morning and put her to bed at night. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  SOBA RESTAURANT - DAY 
NICK 
is struggling with his chopsticks and bowl of noodles. From O.S. A LOUD SLURPING SOUND.  The sound stops, then starts again.  Nick can't eat.  He sets his bowl down and looks over at 
ICH 
slurping his noodles.  It is considered polite to slurp soba noodles as loud as possible. 
Ich stops.  Looks at Nick, then resumes his slurping. 
NICK Think you could keep it to a dull roar? 
They're sitting by the window across from the Seibu department store watching the entrance. 
ICH It's good manners. 
Nick nods.  Picks up his bowl.  Again the LOUD slurping off screen.  Nick starts to eat the noodles.  He can't continue with Ich slurping.  He sets the bowl down. 
Ich grins, resumes slurping and we -- 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - SIX P.M. 
The SALESGIRLS are lined up at the door bowing and thanking the last customers for shopping in their store. Standard practice. 
The GIRL whom Nick and Ich have been watching comes out wearing her uniform and heads down the street. 
NICK AND ICH 
waiting in the restaurant, get up to follow. 
CUT TO: 
THE GIRL 
stepping out of the laundry carrying her wash.  She walks past a doorway where... 
NICK is standing. 
ICH now walks past his partner picking up the tail.  No acknowledgement between them. 
EXT.  STREET CAR STATION 
There are dozens of street cars waiting to pull out.  The girl is on one of them.  Ich has lost her.  Nick and Ich hurry from car to car. 
ICH You said you could keep up with her! 'No problem, Nick-san.' 
NICK (cutting Ich off) No.  Don't say anything.  Don't do anything, and for Christ's sake, don't apologize! 
ICH Nick... 
Nick hurries toward another car to check it out. 
NICK What'd I tell you? 
ICH There she is! 
They spot the girl sitting in the window of one of the street cars, about to turn onto the main street. 
The two cops race for the car.  Nick leaps on.  Ich is a few steps behind.  Nick sticks out his hand, pulls Ich up. They stand looking at one another, both breathing hard, both out of shape. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  HOSTESS CLUB 
Nick waiting under the pink neon sign. 
INT.  HOSTESS CLUB - LATER 
Ich is sitting at the crowded bar.  A HOSTESS has her arm around his neck.  He checks out the room, searching for the girl.  He notices two THUGS standing outside a sliding door.  Ich finishes his drink. 
ICH (in Japanese) Let me up. 
HOSTESS (shoving him down) Sit, sweetie. (to bartender) Another Seagrams! 
Ich relents.  Then, spotting something across the room: 
WHAT HE SEES:  A rice paper door slides open, momentarily revealing a DOZEN men with close cropped hair sitting on tatami mats, playing poker.  Some have their coats off, revealing arms covered with tattoos.  Yakuza. 
A hostess, serving drinks, steps but leaving the door partially open. 
The hostess slides the door open to the adjacent room, but Ich CANNOT see inside.  She slides it shut. 
Ich's hostess wants him to buy another drink, but Ich shakes his head, gets to his feet, and pretending to be drunk, stumbles toward the sliding doors. 
Ich bumps into a table; slaps a stranger on the shoulder; then starts singing along with Frank Sinatra on the stereo.  He's a little too loud, a little off key. 
The bodyguards eye Ich suspiciously.  He stumbles past them, then grabs the sliding door and yanks it open. 
INSIDE THE ROOM 
A low table.  Kobo is at one end.  An older, distinguished, sliver-haired man in his seventies whom we will come to know as SUGAI is at the other.  Ich can't believe his eyes:  Sugai is the head of the largest Yakuza syndicate in Japan. 
A half dozen LIEUTENANTS sit on either side of the table. Half are older, dressed in conservative suits; the other half are younger wearing $700 Issy Miyake jackets. 
SUGAI AND KOBO 
are having a heated discussion.  The GIRL Ich and Nick have been following walks over to Kobo and sits beside him.  This makes Sugai even more irate.  He's on his feet, red faced and screaming. 
FOUR GUARDS 
seeing Ich, pull out their Beretta's.  Two more grab him and fling him head first against the wall. 
ICH (drunken, in Japanese) I have to piss, gentlemen... I'm so sorry but I have to -- 
The bodyguards hurry him towards the door. 
EXT.  HOSTESS CLUB 
Nick checks his watch, it's been an hour - where the hell is Ich? 
Ich comes stumbling up the steps, still affecting his drunken, pigeon-toed walk.  Nick, of course, thinks Ich has gotten drunk again.  Two of the bodyguards are watching from inside. 
NICK I don't believe it... (grabs him) Son-of-a-bitch -- 
Ich, knowing they're being watched, grabs Nick by the sleeve and drags him off still pretending to be drunk. 
ICH (under his breath) I'm not drunk... 
NICK We're through.  I mean it.  This is the end of the line, Matsumoto. 
ICH Nick -- 
NICK Shut-up. 
No longer fearing he's being watched, Ich abruptly stops his affected walk, and sounding very sober -- 
ICH You shut-up! (then) Kobo is inside.  He's with Sugai, the head of the Summaguchi-clan. 
ACROSS THE STREET 
Ich is dialing on the police call box as he fills Nick in on Sugai. 
ICH ... A Godfather.  His man was killed at the printing plant. 
NICK I want to yank Kobo. 
ICH Not without a small army, Nicklaus- san. 
Ich quickly speaks on the police phone, then hangs up, pleased with himself. 
NICK Ich, my name is Nick.  Not Nicklaus, not Nicklaus-san, not Nick-san. Nick. 
ICH San is an honorable title. 
Ich realizes it's better to drop it. 
CUT TO: 
THE HOSTESS CLUB - MINUTES LATER 
Drunken Salarymen spill out the door. 
ICH AND NICK 
are standing across the street waiting for the cops to arrive. 
Nick freezes. 
NICK While you were hanging out at the visa office, we found the son-of-a- bitch. 
OHASHI Look. 
Ohashi directs Nick's attention across the street where a SURVEILLANCE VAN is parked.  The rear doors are open revealing a van full of surveillance equipment and cops. 
OHASHI You ruined an on-going investigation that could have gotten us more than one runner. (to Ich, in Japanese) I want a full report in the morning, officer. 
Ich bows as Ohashi walks off. 
NICK Maybe if you'd work with us -- 
Ohashi ignores him, continues walking toward his waiting car. 
NICK (shouting) Hey...! (Ohashi keeps walking) HEY, I'M TALKING TO YOU, INSPECTOR! 
OHASHI (his back toward Nick) Twenty-four hours, detective. 
Ohashi slips into his car.  Nick storms up to the car and slams his fist on the window. 
NICK Ohashi! 
Ohashi faces straight ahead, ignoring Nick.  Nick takes the extradition paper and spikes it on the car antenna. 
Ich grabs Nick by his arm, pulling him back from the car. The car pulls away. 
ICH Nick, stop! 
Nick whirls, and before he realizes what he's doing, punches Ich below his left eye.  Ich stumbles back over the curb and lands on his ass. 
NICK Damnit, Ichiro, I'm tired of people telling me what I can and can't do. No one ever solved anything sitting on their ass. 
Nick, beside himself with frustration, watches Ohashi's car disappear down the block. 
ON ICH 
looking up at 
NICK 
who walks off without looking back at his partner. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  ICH'S BATHROOM - SEVERAL HOURS LATER 
Nick, standing beside the tub, dumps a pail of hot water over his head, rinsing himself off.  He grabs a towel and walks out of the room. 
INT.  ICH'S APARTMENT 
Ich, holding an ice pack to his face, is lying on a tatami mat against the wall looking up at the ceiling.  An open bottle of Seagrams beside him. 
Nick stretches out on another tatami on the opposite side of the room and looks up at the ceiling, too. 
NICK The ice help? 
Nothing from Ich. 
NICK Where does this Sugai live? 
ICH (cold) A resort city, Beppu. 
NICK I want to go talk to him. 
ICH What...?  Why? 
NICK Because he knows how to get to our man. 
ICH He'll never speak to a Gaiijin. 
NICK I'll be a nice Gaiijin. 
Nick gets up and goes to the closet.  He slides open the door.  All of his and Charlie's clothes have been neatly hung up. 
He shoves Charlie's jacket aside.  Something's wrong with the way it hangs.  He pulls the jacket out, runs his hand over the coat, feeling something heavy in the lining. 
Nick rips the lining open.  Charlie's .32 Beretta and a spare clip tumble out. 
NICK The little bastard.  God bless him. 
Ich takes a drink from his bottle. 
ICH It's very small. 
NICK Big enough. 
ICH It's illegal, Nick. 
NICK It's a new deal. (putting it in his waist band) ... coming with me tomorrow? 
ICH Sugai's not going to be impressed with your gun, Nick. (beat) No.  I won't put myself in danger for you anymore. 
Nick picks up the liquor cap which rolled across the floor.  He tosses it to Ich.  Ich reaches for it, but misses. 
NICK Sure, pal.  You've got better things to do. 
JOYCE I don't remember saying yes. 
NICK I don't remember you saying no. 
Joyce smiles, heads inside. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  ICH'S APARTMENT - DAWN 
Ich is sleeping. 
Nick slips into his leather motorcycle jacket.  He drops Charlie's gun into his pocket.  He glances down at Ich, seeing if he's awake.  He's not.  Nick walks out. 
Ich opens his eyes.  He's been awake the whole time. 
CUT TO: 
THE YANAKA CEMETERY - DAY 
Ich, wearing a blue suit, is pouring water over a simple stone with a wooden dipper.  Next, he places incense in a holder and folds his hands in prayer. 
The photo on the stone is of a young man wearing a school uniform.  Ich's son. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A BULLET TRAIN - DAY 
It's bull's-eye nose cone scuds across the endless rice paddies west of Tokyo.  Women in straw hats stand in the knee deep water pruning the rice by hand.  Old Japan rubbing shoulders with the new. 
INT.  TRAIN - DAY 
CLOSE ON NICK looking out the window as the countryside shoots past at 140 mph.  From O.S. several children chanting:  "Harrow, Harrow." 
Nick looks over to see three uniformed school children thrusting their notebooks and pens at him. 
JOYCE 
is sitting across from Nick. 
JOYCE They want your autograph. 
NICK Who am I supposed to be? 
JOYCE This little guy thinks you're Robert Redford... the other one thinks you're Charles Bronson... 
NICK Tell them I'm not. 
She does, but the kids insist. 
JOYCE They'll never go away. 
Nick, reluctantly signs.  Joyce takes one of the kid's notebooks before passing it back. 
JOYCE Mick Jagger? 
Joyce smiles, surprised at his choice.  Then, she looks up shocked to see -- 
ICH 
carrying a gift wrapped package under his arm.  He's wearing his hat, blue suit and tie. 
Ich sits ACROSS the aisle from Nick and Joyce.  He doesn't say a word.  Faces straight ahead. 
Nick looks at Joyce, then back at Ich. 
NICK I'm sorry, Ichiro.  I lost it last night.  I shouldn't have hit you. 
Still nothing from Ich. 
NICK What's in the box? 
ICH (still not facing him) For Sugai.  Caviar, French cheese, ham... If you come to apologize for interrupting his meeting, Sugai may feel obligated to see you. 
NICK So I bring some cheese? 
JOYCE Gifts are expected here. 
Nick nods, looks back out the window.  He'll never understand this country.  He looks back to see -- 
Joyce looking annoyed at him.  Nick gets the message. 
NICK Hey, Ich... Thanks.  I'm glad you're here.  I mean it. 
Ich still won't acknowledge Nick. 
EXT.  BULLET TRAIN 
The Bullet Train disappearing into the foothills. 
EXT.  BEPPU - DAWN 
Plumes of white steam spindle skyward from every street corner.  If you didn't know it was steam, you'd think the city was on fire.  Beppu is a resort famous for it's geothermal baths. 
EXT.  SUGAI'S HOUSE 
SUGAI The other plate is currently in New York, in the hands of Kobo's man. Find it for me. 
NICK You trust me? 
SUGAI I'll pay you. 
Nick laughs at Sugai's audaciousness. 
NICK (indicating the counterfeit bills) With these? 
SUGAI Swiss bank deposit.  Gold bullion. Whatever you want.  You know the city and the police. 
NICK If I say no? 
SUGAI You're smarter than Kobo.  You know the price of deceit.  Think about it. 
NICK I don't have to. 
Sugai cools.  Without a word he gets to his feet and starts toward the door. 
NICK I have ten hours to grab my man. 
ON SUGAI 
still walking with his back to Nick. 
NICK (O.S.) You won't get hurt. 
Sugai turns to see Nick, across the room, pointing the Beretta at his head. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  ROOM - SUGAI'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER 
The room where Ich and Joyce are waiting.  Sugai enters. Their surprise turns to shock when they see Nick behind him holding a gun to the old man's head. 
ICH No... 
NICK Let's go.  Him first. 
ICH Nick, you can't do this. 
NICK It's done. (to Joyce) You don't have to come. 
She hasn't moved a muscle. 
INT SUGAI'S HOUSE - ENTRANCE WAY 
Sugai watches calmly as Nick, Ich, and Joyce put their shoes on.  Nick keeps the gun on him. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  SUGAI'S COURTYARD 
Nick steps out of the house.  He now has one end of a wire coat hanger loosely wrapped around Sugai's neck, the other end around his wrist.  His gun is pressed just beneath Sugai's ear.  If nick gets shot, so does Sugai. 
A handful of guards stand in the courtyard, one is polishing Sugai's Debonnaire car.  They spot Nick and Sugai coming, and immediately pull their guns. 
NICK Explain to them.  They shoot me, they kill you. (Sugai hesitates) DO IT! 
Sugai explains to his lieutenants.  They stand helpless as Nick walks Sugai toward the car. 
NICK Grab the keys, Ich, and get inside. 
ICH No. 
NICK Not now, man, okay, not now.  Work with me. 
Ich takes the keys from the man polishing the car.  He gets inside.  Joyce hurries in bedside him. 
ICH You don't know what you're doing. 
Nick slides Sugai in the back seat, carefully reaches over and shuts the door. 
NICK Start it. 
ICH (terrified) I can't... 
JOYCE Slide over. 
Joyce, furious at Nick, starts the car, gets behind the wheel.  Ich gets in on the other side. 
She spins the car around.  The gate opens.  They tear off. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  STREET - BEPPU - DAY 
The car bursts through the funnels of steam from the hot- springs beneath the street.  It tears down the narrow block dodging traffic.  Joyce is concentrating hard on the road. 
NICK (to Ich) Where's somewhere safe? 
Nothing from Ich.  He's still apoplectic. 
JOYCE (angrily) You came up with the first part. 
THE CAMERA FINDS the closed elevator door.  It opens, Kobo steps out, followed by a half-dozen more men all carrying Sig-Saur assault rifles -- very heavy artillery. 
CUT TO: 
SUGAI 
wearing his hat and coat is sitting on the couch, his back to us, facing out the window. 
Drop down to -- 
THE ROOM BENEATH HIM 
A couple are making love in the Hawaiian theme room. 
The door burst open.  Two men, cradling Sig-Saur rifles in their arms, step in.  They aim at the ceiling, blasting into Sugai's room above. 
THE GIRL 
starts screaming.  The men ignore her and continue to pump bullets into the ceiling. 
KOBO AND HIS MEN 
stop in front of every door long enough to blast into the room.  They make their way down the hall. 
A naked man steps into the hallway and is matter-of-factly gunned down. 
Kobo and his men stop in front of Sugai's room. 
INT.  SUGAI'S ROOM 
Sugai, wearing his hat, is slumped down on the couch which has been splintered by the bullets from below. 
OUTSIDE THE ROOM 
Kobo signals the men.  All six open-up through the door. 
INSIDE THE ROOM 
The door, what's left of it, is kicked open.  The six men step in, shooting in all directions:  into the bathroom door, into the closet... Windows shatter, mirrors fall, total destruction.  They stop.  SILENCE. 
Kobo walks up to Sugai who is slumped on the couch.  He lifts up his hat.  It's a cowboy mannequin wearing Sugai's clothes. 
THE ELEVATOR DOOR 
opens.  A DOZEN of Sugai's men carrying machine pistols come out. 
THE OUTSIDE BALCONY 
Nick and Ich lie on their bellies, guns out. 
INSIDE THE ROOM 
Kobo's men turn.  Sugai's men open-up.  Three of Kobo's hitters go down.  The others try to flee into the adjoining room. 
Kobo goes for the balcony. 
THE BALCONY 
as Kobo steps out.  He steps right into -- 
NICK 
who slams the side of Kobo's head with the butt of his gun. 
THE ROOM 
Nick and Ich drag Kobo in by his jacket collar.  Sugai, very much alive, walks in from the hallway.  Nothing is said.  Sugai looks at Kobo for a long beat, then walks out. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  SUGAI'S HOUSE - DAY 
KOBO 
standing alone in the middle of a tatami room.  His face is badly beaten.  His hands are bound.  Two guards stand near the wall.  Nick and Ich stand across the room. 
SUGAI 
wearing a western suit, is asking Kobo questions in Japanese.  Sugai barks at him again.  Kobo refuses to answer.  Sugai pulls up a shuto -- an 18 inch knife -- from it's scabbard. 
SUGAI (in Japanese) Contact your associate in New York and tell him to hand my plate over to Abolofia. 
Nothing from Kobo. 
SUGAI You have betrayed the syndicate and personally dishonored me.  I would rather the deal fell through than... 
The guards walk over and turn Kobo around.  His back is to Sugai.  Sugai runs the sword across the nape of Kobo's neck drawing blood.  The guards tighten their grip on Kobo's arms. 
NICK 
can't believe Sugai's going to kill him.  Nick starts to get up, Ich stops him. 
Kobo realizes Sugai isn't just threatening him. 
KOBO No... I'll arrange it. 
The police car streaks across endless fields. 
INSIDE THE CAR 
Nick is at the wheel.  He rubs the sleep from his eyes. Ich is slumped down in the seat watching the road. 
Ich pulls out a cigarette.  Nick lights it for him. 
NICK Joyce told me about your family. It's tough... 
Ich looks up surprised. 
ICH Thank you. (beat) You have one? 
NICK A wife.  She left. 
ICH I'm sorry. 
NICK Me too. 
Ich glances over at Nick, then back at the road. 
Nicks rubs out his cigarette and presses down on the accelerator. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT.  KOBO'S HIDEOUT - DAWN 
A small, contemporary house perched on a dry piece of land.  A paved road, lined with dense foliage runs on a berm between the flooded rice paddies. 
ON NICK AND ICH 
sitting in the car watching from a hillside turnoff. There's no easy way in. 
NICK Let's go. 
Ich hands Charlie his shuto -- an 18 inch long knife. 
NICK What's that for? 
ICH Luck. 
Nick tucks the shuto inside his jacket. 
NICK Thanks. 
Nick opens up his door and climbs out. 
ICH You know, Nick, we can't lose. 
NICK (stopping) Why's that? 
ICH Because we're the biggest things to hit this town since Godzilla. 
CUT TO: 
THE DIRT ROAD 
leading to the house lined with foliage.  The rice paddies on either side. 
CUT TO: 
NICK AND ICH 
making their way through the waist high water. 
TWO WORKERS 
with their hoes make their way into the water.  They don't see our cops. 
OUR COPS 
making their way along the edge of the road.  The SOUND of a motorcycle coming. 
THE MOTORCYCLE RIDER 
slows and drops a gear as he turns off the main road and onto the dirt berm toward the house.  He's one of Kobo's Bosozoku -- a long way from the streets of Tokyo. 
The rider comes around the bend to see -- 
A COP 
standing in a uniform.  Ich.  For a moment he doesn't know what to do.  Then, he draws a pistol from his belt and accelerates toward Ich. 
ICH 
stands his ground as the bike closes in.  The biker takes aim. 
Ich drops off to the side as -- 
NICK 
rises from a ditch and swings a hoe at the rider as he passes, catching the man across the face.  The rider drops like a swatted fly.  The biker's momentum carries it a few yards before it falls and skids to a halt. 
Nick hurries to the bike. 
ICH Yes... 
NICK (to Joyce) Call for help. 
Nick mounts the other bike, and puts the turbo charged rocket into gear. 
THE ROAD 
Rain pours down as Kobo turns onto the main road.  He opens up the throttle, and in less than a second, he's a screaming dot in the distance. 
NICK 
comes around the same corner.  His bike fishtails and slides out from under him. 
FURTHER DOWN THE ROAD 
Kobo tears past a police car.  The police car takes off after him. 
THE FOOTHILLS 
A series of steep switchbacks traverse the steep, densely forested hills. 
Kobo's bike flies up the road.  The police car can't keep up, begins losing ground. 
THE POLICE CAR 
going flat out, falling further and further behind. Kobo's going to escape. 
SUDDENLY 
Nick, bent low, shoots past the cop car.  His left arm is scraped and bloody. 
ON KOBO 
glancing back, to see Nick gaining on him.  Kobo's pleased.  He gives it more gas. 
NICK 
pulling eight-five... ninety... one hundred.  The rain stings his face.  It's hard to keep his eye open. 
THE FOOTHILLS 
Kobo leaning into one of the steep turns, climbing higher and higher toward the clouds clinging to the top of the peak. 
NICK 
is gaining on him.  He HEARS something coming up behind him. 
A BOSOZOKU 
the one Ich shot in the leg, is closing fast on his tail. 
ON NICK 
as the biker draws even. 
THE BIKER 
pulls out his long knife and slashes at Nick's shoulder. 
Nick drops back causing him to miss.  The biker drops back.  Nick tries to speed up, but the biker sticks with him.  He's a good rider, this boy.  Very, very good. 
The biker moves in again, blade drawn. 
NICK SEES 
something the biker doesn't. 
A TRUCK 
coming around the corner. 
NICK 
swerves to avoid it at the last moment.  The biker reacts too late and runs -- 
INTO THE GLEAMING 
radiator of the two ton truck, and disappears beneath its wheels. 
ON KOBO 
around the bend, glancing back.  Empty road.  He eases up on the throttle -- a free man... He circles back only to see 
NICK 
burst around the corner charging toward him at a hundred- and-twenty miles per hour, in the driving rain. 
KOBO 
waits and waits.  Nick draws closer.  Then, Kobo tears off back down the mountain, shooting past Nick. 
Nick brakes... He slows down, and starts to turn, but the wheels whirl on the gravel and the bike goes into a skid, heading right for the edge of the road. 
CUT TO: 
NICK 
still moving, his arms and legs feel like lead. 
KOBO'S FINGERS 
as they reach for the plate. 
NICK 
grabs Kobo's wrist forcing him to drop the plate.  Nick picks up a rock.  It looks as if he's going to smash Kobo's head.  Instead, he brings it down on the plate, shattering it in a half-dozen pieces. 
Nick tosses the pieces in front of Kobo's face. 
NICK Keep the change. 
Nick, exhausted, slowly falls onto his back.  He looks over at Kobo, their faces are inches apart.  Nick makes a slashing mark with his index finger above his eyebrows. The same gesture Kobo made to Nick through the two-way mirror in New York. 
Nick passes out.  His eyes shut... the screen... 
FADES TO BLACK. 
BLACK SCREEN 
The SOUND of three police cars screeching to a halt.  The SOUNDS of the police SIRENS winding down. 
The SIRENS get softer mixing with the SOUND of RINGING phones, CLACKING typewriters, VOICES... 
FADE IN: 
INT.  TOKYO POLICE HEADQUARTERS 
Fifty identical desks.  Fifty identically dressed men in white shirts and ties work under fluorescent lights. 
OHASHI 
is at his desk studying a report. 
Suddenly, the lights go out.  The fan's stop, so do the electric typewriters. 
Ohashi looks up to see -- 
ICH 
walking toward him down the long aisle, his left arm is bandaged, his right hand handcuffed to Kobo on crutches. 
Ich silently leads the captured man down the long aisle to Ohashi's desk. 
ICH 
stops in front of the desk and snaps to attention. 
ICH Constable Ichiro Matsumoto presents captured prisoner Kobo, Chief Inspector Ohashi. 
Ich salutes. 
OHASHI Inspector Ohashi will take charge of the prisoner. 
Ich uncuffs Kobo and steps aside to reveal -- 
NICK 
standing at the far end of the room by the fuse box.  He's also bandaged and on crutches. 
Nick looks at Ohashi without saying a word, then flips the main switch up.  The lights and fans start working. 
He turns and walks out the door. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  POLICE COURTYARD - A FEW DAYS LATER 
A small decoration ceremony. 
ON ICHIRO 
getting two golden suns pinned to the lapel of his dress uniform. 
In the far corner 
NICK, JOYCE AND 
Ichiro's wife, dressed in a formal kimono, watch the ceremony. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  JAPANESE RESTAURANT - TOKYO - DAY 
Joyce and Nick are sitting alone at a table.  Nick's left arm in in a sling. 
NICK Can't make you change your mind? 
JOYCE Last time you asked me to come along I nearly got a hole in my head. 
NICK Might be different in New York. 
