BLACK SNAKE MOAN 
Written by 
Craig Brewer 
Only one kind of blues... And that consists between male and female. - Son House 
EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - EARLY DAWN 
RAE is naked. 
Wrapped around her shoulders is a loose-knit spread that conceals her slender form. She is in her 20's: a strawberry blond, with cinnamon freckles spotted across her pale skin. She is beautiful without trying. 
She stares at the distant trees. This is the South; the small town of FISHERVILLE, TENNESSEE. 
Soon Rae will be alone. 
CUT TO: 
INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - EARLY MORNING 
RONNIE is 25 years old. His hair is cropped in a military issue buzz. 
Rae's face is wet with tears as Ronnie gently makes love to her. She touches his face and sobs like a child. 
CUT TO: 
INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - LATER THAT MORNING 
RONNIE is dressed in his National Guard fatigues, packing up his gear. 
Rae is now wearing a short jeans skirt and a T-shirt with a gray wolf print ironed on the front. There is a knock at the door. Rae flinches. Ronnie opens the door revealing GILL MORTON, Ronnie's buddy from high school. 
GILL Still need a lift? 
RONNIE Yeah. Transmission's shot. 
Gill and Rae's eyes meet. Gill sees that Rae is crying. 
GILL Gonna have a smoke. 
Ronnie shuts the door and feels a wave of sudden nausea. He rushes past Rae. 
RONNIE Shit... 
INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - BATHROOM - MORNING 
Ronnie is vomiting into the toilet as Rae rubs his head. Each painful dry heave makes Rae comfort him more. 
RAE Baby... 
EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - MORNING 
Ronnie places his duffle bag in Gill's truck. Rae begins to cough. 
GILL You sick? 
Rae doesn't answer. 
Gill backs away, allowing Ronnie and Rae some privacy. The two lovers stare into each others eyes and then embrace. 
Rae peeks over Ronnie's shoulder at Gill with an expression of dread. Anger seizes her. 
RAE This ain't gonna work. 
RONNIE Rae... 
RAE I don't see why we gotta lie 'bout it when you and I know this ain't gonna work. 
RONNIE (holds her face in his hands) Rae don't do this now... 
RAE It's stupid... It's so fucking stupid! 
RONNIE Rae! 
Silence. Rae melts. Tears stream down her face. 
RONNIE (reaches in his pocket) Look it. I got somethin' for us. This is gonna help, okay. 
GILL You gonna miss your bus. 
Ronnie removes a small digital watch and fastens it around her wrist. 
RONNIE This watch here is gonna beep at midnight. Every night. That's when it comes up on you the hardest, right? 
LINCOLN, a 13-year-old black boy, comes out of the open loading door. 
LINCOLN You won't at the square this mornin'. 
LAZARUS Get me ten bags of mulch. 
LINCOLN Yes'sir. 
Lincoln runs off. Laz yanks off his black tie. 
EXT. MELVIN'S FEED STORE - LATER 
Lincoln slaps the last bag of mulch into the bed of Laz's truck. Laz hands Lincoln a twenty. 
LAZARUS Keep the change on that. 
LINCOLN Naw... I got it, Mr. Lazarus. (makes change) You wanna tip me, best do it in butter beans. Momma say she need a bag 'a yours, none of that store-bought junk. That's what she said. 
Laz smiles. He takes the change. Climbs in his truck. 
LAZARUS Alright, Lincoln. You come on by, I'll load you up. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. LAZARUS'S BARN - LATE DAY 
Lazarus steers his tractor toward his small home in a sea of lush green kudzu. He kills the engine and looks beyond the nose of his tractor. He lights a cigarette. Below the nose is the head of a rose garden with a painted sign under it: Rose's Roses. 
Laz inhales smoke and exhales hate. The tractor lunges forward, trampling the garden, ripping the flowers to shreds. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BOJO'S - EARLY EVENING 
MAYELLA is a heavy, forty-year-old black woman. Her blue neon tube top matches her short pants stretched across her healthy ass. She is flipping through the juke box selection. 
MAYELLA You gonna put some Luther Vandross in here? Shit, he black ain't he? 
BOJO is reading a paper behind the bar. He's short and stout, looking like a sad bull dog. 
BOJO He black alright, he just ain't blue. 
MAYELLA Why you stop havin' dancin' on Saturday? Used to have bands... all kind's live shit. Like a wake up in here, now. 
BOJO Folks can dance when they want. Didn't buy that mirror ball for nothin'. 
MAYELLA You seen my snake-skin shoes? 
Mayella lifts up her leg and stretches it over the bar with a provocative flourish. Her shoe is bright blue. 
MAYELLA They're from New York. My niece gets 'em on the computer. 
LAZARUS They got blue snakes up north? 
Mayella turns to Laz sipping a beer at the end of the bar. 
MAYELLA Naw. They got some blue dye, though. You think them boots you got on come from a black cow? 
BOJO Wanna get on somebody 'bout live music, get on ol' Laz, there. He the one got this place shakin' back in the day. 
MAYELLA Don't gotta tell me. Me and my girlfriends use-ta talk 'bout them hard fingertips he got pickin' that guitar. 
LAZARUS Got'em pickin' peas, not strings. 
Mayella moves in close, with the tips of her tits touching his arm. 
MAYELLA They still hard? 
LAZARUS Mayella. It ain't happened yet. Ain't happenin' tonight. 
MAYELLA (retreating with a glare) I know you hurtin', Laz. I got ears, you know. But you should know more'n me... ain't no better cure for them blues than some good pussy. 
Mayella saunters over to the pool table with the others. 
BOJO Whole lotta woman, right there. 
LAZARUS She can still spread it around. 
The door opens behind Laz. Bojo sees the man entering. 
BOJO Laz. We friends and all but... promise me you'll keep yo cool in my joint. 
Laz turns to see the door shut behind his brother, DEKE WOODS. He is younger than Laz and a bit smaller. Laz turns to Bojo. 
LAZARUS I'm gonna finish my beer. 
KELL Satellites... You mean in space? 
CONNER Uh-huh. 
KELL Good thing you can block, Conner, cuz you're dumb as a sack of shit. 
Jesse notices Rae coughing. She pulls her aside as Conner rambles. 
JESSE You wanna go home? 
RAE It gets worse there. Leavin' me to my own mind. That's just not good. 
JESSE (pours a shot of vodka) Here. Pound this and I'll join you. 
Rae and Jesse take a strong shot. It burns. 
JESSE One more. Fuck the chaser. 
As they pound one more, Rae notices Gill, Ronnie's friend, staring at her from across the room. 
JESSE Better? 
RAE Yeah. 
BATSON and MARK approach Jesse and Rae. They are both sophomores, both skinny and harmless. 
BATSON Hey, Jess. 
JESSE Boys. 
BATSON You robotrippin' tonight? 
JESSE I'm just gonna smoke. 
Rae peeks at Gill maneuvering through the room. 
BATSON (rummages in his pockets) Got eight packs of DXM. Oxycontin. Got a shit load of Coricidin if you want to get out-a-body, n'all. 
JESSE You just trying to get me outta my clothes. 
RAE Be right back. 
Rae pushes through the crowd of drunken kids to get to Gill. 
RAE It's not like I can't go out and have fun with my friends. 
GILL You think I'm Ronnie's spy or somethin'? Come tomorrow that dumb- ass gonna be halfway round the world tryin' to keep his head on his shoulders. You think he's gonna be thinkin' about you? 
RAE You go to hell. 
Rae pushes through the crowd, back toward the others. 
RAE (to Batson) How many to fuck me up? 
QUICK CUTS of: Batson popping out five red cough pills. Rae swallowing all five and chasing them with vodka. Conner's girl falls off his lap. Kell laughs. The laughter echoes and grows as we: 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CONNER'S HOUSE - THE KEGGER - HIS PARENT'S WATERBED - NIGHT 
CLOSE ANGLES: We never quite see the whole of what is implied. Rae's eyes, Jesse's mouth, a boy's shoulder. 
The room is packed with bodies. Rae laughs with pleasure as her eyes attempt to focus. The kid on top of her finishes and rolls off. 
JESSE What's so funny? 
Jesse is straddling a guy in an arm chair, Chinese-eyed and bouncing. Rae tries to respond coherently as another football player rolls her over on all fours and takes her from behind. 
RAE (laughing) Oh... I'm just on a water bed... And it's just... so... Goddamn... funny! 
A few coughs. Rae focuses to see a younger guy sitting at her eye level. 
RAE Hi. 
BRYAN Hey. 
RAE You ain't the kicker, are you? 
BRYAN No, ma'am. 
RAE Cuz let me tell you, you boys gotta run the ball more. You get into a kicking game, ya'll gonna lose. 
BRYAN Can I put it in your mouth? 
RAE Okay. 
Gill's truck flies down the dark road. 
INT. GILL'S TRUCK - NIGHT 
Rae is looking out the window, drifting in and out. 
GILL Thought you had a skirt earlier. 
RAE I got others. 
Gill pulls to the side of the road and kills the engine. He watches Rae tilt her head from side to side. 
GILL This thing you got... I've heard people say, you'd fuck a tree if it was handy. I can see that. (shakes his head) But that nigger Tehronne. Thinks he's some player cuz he hustles dope and stolen hubcaps. I mean, I can see a tree. But that piece of shit? 
RAE (lost in hazy sorrow) I begged him. Don't see why he had to go... 
GILL I bet you did. Just had to get that black cock up in you. I swear to God. What Ronnie sees... you disgust me. 
Gill grabs her legs and spreads them with no resistance. Her head rolls from side to side on the truck seat as Gill unzips his pants. 
Rae starts giggling. 
GILL The fuck you laughin' at? 
RAE (giggling) You don't got half what Tehronne got. 
Gill flinches upright. A rage builds in his eyes. 
EXT. ROAD - NIGHT 
From outside the steamed truck window, we see Gill beat Rae repeatedly. 
Silence. 
GILL (muffled from the inside) Get up! I ain't playin'! OPEN YOUR GODDAMN EYES! 
Silence. 
He opens the truck door, fear in his eyes. Rae isn't moving. Blood is on her face. 
GILL Oh, Jesus... 
A hasty idea. He pushes her out of the truck. She falls to the dark pavement in a tangle of her own limbs. 
The door slams. Gill floors the gas. Rae lies motionless alone under the stars. 
Her watch alarm goes off: Beep-beep. Beep-beep. Beep-beep. 
CUT TO: 
INT. A BUS - NIGHT 
Ronnie is asleep on the bus, unaware that his watch alarm in beeping at him. 
A Guardsman sitting next to him shakes Ronnie awake. 
GUARDSMAN Hey. 
Ronnie silences the alarm. He regards the watch with sadness and affection. 
EXT. FREEWAY - NIGHT 
The bus roars past. The red brake lights fade into night. 
FADE TO BLACK: 
INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING 
Lazarus has fallen asleep sitting at his kitchen table. His eyes open. Standing is difficult. The guitar falls to the floor. 
The phone rings. Dizziness hits, but he manages to pick up the receiver. 
LAZARUS Huh? 
INT. CHURCH OF GOD / LAZARUS'S HOME - EARLY MORNING 
R.L. is on his cell phone. He is placing hymnals in the back racks of the church pews. 
R.L. Bojo called. Said you got to see your brother at the long end of a broken bottle. 
LAZARUS You gonna preach 'bout turnin' the other cheek? 
R.L. I think you did alright by God under the circumstances. (R.L. pauses) Your people are here for you, Laz. This is your home. No shame in showing your face. 
LAZARUS Don't know if God wanna see me. 
An old black man named RED sits on a bench next to an older white man in his early eighties holding a cane. RED is the paid caretaker of MELVIN. 
MELVIN How's the squash this year? 
LAZARUS It's good, Mister Melvin. I'll bring ya some. 
Laz rushes inside. 
INT. MACON DRUGS - AFTERNOON 
The variety of cough medicine confuses Laz as he examines them. 
ANGELA approaches Laz. She is dressed in a floral print dress with a white lab coat. Angela has a few extra pounds on her but she wears it well with her caring face and sweet manner. 
ANGELA Lazarus? 
LAZARUS (startled) Oh! Gave me a start. 
ANGELA I'm sorry. It's these soft shoes I wear for my back. 
LAZARUS You hurt it? 
ANGELA I'm standing most of my day. They're for support. (a smile) Didn't see you in church this mornin'. 
LAZARUS (tries to lie) Been on the crop. May need to get some extra hands if I don't want to work on Sundays. 
ANGELA Well. It's good to see you. 
Angela wants the conversation to continue but Laz remains silent. She smiles awkwardly. 
LAZARUS Angela? 
ANGELA Yes? 
LAZARUS I need to uh... 
ANGELA Go on, Laz. You can talk to me. 
LAZARUS My little niece... she got this deep cough. 
ANGELA You take her to a doctor? 
LAZARUS (struggles to lie) No. No, she can't go. Mean to say... they's just no money fo'a doctor. Her daddy left for a job, and uh... give her to me to look on. I just... (a pitiful pause) I don't know what to do. 
Angela thinks for a moment. 
ANGELA You wait right here. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - DAY 
Snot and spittle has run down the side of Rae's face -- her eyelids stick together as she tries to open them. 
There is a creak, followed by another. Rae has become aware that someone is slowly walking up the front porch. 
The door opens. Silhouetted in the day's blinding light is a white man in his 40's. His face is indistinguishable to Rae's affected gaze. 
Is this a dream? 
He stands above her and lights a cigarette. The Zippo lighter clasps shut. The man lowers it to his side where Rae can see it clearly. A bald eagle is printed on the side, a sight that makes Rae's eyes open wide in horror. 
Her breath grows deeper -- a girlish plea. This is no dream -- it's a nightmare. 
RAE Mm-mm... Mm-mm... 
A massive hand slaps down over her mouth. Her crusted eyes peer above the hairy knuckles. He sucks on the cigarette. A red cherry blazes at the end. The man pushes the blanket off of her and grips her panties. 
Rae's eyes close. She knows what is next. In his clenched fist, the panties are ripped off. 
RAE NOOOOO! 
Rae flinches awake from the fever-induced nightmare and falls to the wooden floor, drenched in sweat. Weakened and shaking, she scampers away, finally collapsing in the kitchen. Her hand reaches out and lands on the strings of Laz's guitar on the floor. She grips the steel strings with her trembling fingers. 
A single bass note twangs as she passes out. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MACON DRUGS - AFTERNOON 
Angela stands between the aisles, motioning Laz to approach, away from the girl at the counter. 
ANGELA Is your niece older than 12? 
LAZARUS Oh, she older than that. 
LAZARUS Come on, gal... 
She turns and runs away as best she can. Laz chases after her. He's much older than her and a bit slower, but her balance betrays her. 
Laz wraps his arms around her. Rae screams to the sky. 
RAE NO! NOOO! NOOOOOOOOOO! 
And then, stillness. Rae lies limp in Laz's arms, unconscious. 
He reaches down and lifts her wrist to his face. The green screen of the digital watch pulsates with the alarm. 
He pushes the side button. The beeping stops. Silence. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Laz lays Rae back onto his couch. Her eyes open into slits. She can see Laz's form over her like the man in her nightmare. 
Rae grabs Laz's wrist. He flinches with her force. 
RAE (the whisper of a child) Is'okay... Is'okay... 
Struggling with exhaustion, Rae moves Laz's hand to her bare stomach. She rubs it slowly up and down her form, suggestively. 
Laz slips his hand away and claps it tight over her eyes. Rae holds her breath, waiting to be molested, her lip quivering. 
LAZARUS (singing deep and soft) Goin' over that hill. Goin' over that hill. Well, I ain't gonna stop until I reach my God's top. I'm goin' over the hill. Well I went to the valley, I didn't go to stay. Soul got happy, I stayed all day. I'm goin' over that hill. 
Rae relaxes and falls into a deep sleep. 
Laz backs away from her, a touch of fear in his heart. The voice of Tehronne is heard from earlier in the day. 
TEHRONNE (V.O.) She a freak. Got what you call a sexual addiction. 
LAZARUS (V.O.) What'chu sayin'? 
TEHRONNE (V.O.) What I'm tellin' you. Girl gotta get dick or she go crazy. 
FLASH TO: 
INT. POOL HALL - EARLIER THAT DAY - FLASHBACK 
Lazarus looks at Tehronne with a furrowed brow, confused. 
TEHRONNE First hooked up with that bitch when she was 16. Girl was fuckin' the principal and two of her teachers. You know coach Reynolds? 
LAZARUS Uh-huh. 
TEHRONNE He tapped that. 
LAZARUS Naw! 
TEHRONNE Go ask him. 
FLASH BACK TO: 
INT. LAZARUS'S BARN - NIGHT 
Lazarus opens his barn, slicing through the darkness with his flashlight. 
TEHRONNE (V.O.) She been bumpin' around all her life, hookin' up with whoever keep her fed and fucked. 
He crosses to the other side, pulls on a beaded chain turning on the single bulb above his work table. 
TEHRONNE (V.O.) I seen her give it up on park benches, back of trucks, hoopty hoods, you name it. 
Laz opens an old wooden box on his work table. He looks inside. 
FLASH TO: 
INT. POOL HALL - MORNING - FLASHBACK 
Laz looks ill. Tehronne checks his pager briefly. 
TEHRONNE You ever seen a train run on a woman? 
LAZARUS Nuh-uh. 
TEHRONNE Meanin' like a team of fellas go to work on her and she don't even break a sweat. (puts his pager away) She into football, you know. You got a letter on your jacket you get that pussy in ya lap. I ain't playin'. 
Tehronne's friend breaks on the pool table with a sharp crack. Lazarus is genuinely disturbed. 
LAZARUS How a girl get like that? 
LAZARUS Way I see it, it's gonna take a while for you to get right. 
RAE The fuck you been doin' to me? 
LAZARUS I ain't laid a hand on ya but to ease yo fever... Remember like I say, I found you in the road... 
RAE (yanks at the chain around her waist) Get this Goddamn thing off me! 
Rae stumbles as she moves away from Laz. Laz tries to reassure her. 
LAZARUS Now, no harm's come to you... and I aim to keep it that way. Ain't gonna... gonna run a train over ya... or however you call it... see... you was runnin' wild on me... these fever dreams you was havin'... these fits. I'd be chasin' you all night. 
RAE Well I'm woke now... you can take this off. 
Rae waits. 
LAZARUS Gal, you ain't right yet. 
RAE I'm right enough to stand on my own two feet. Now take this Goddamn chain off... 
LAZARUS How you let men treat ya like they do? 
RAE What? 
LAZARUS These men you up under. How you let them do ya like that? 
RAE (grips the chain) Do me? Do me like this, you mean? Like chainin' me up? 
LAZARUS You know what I'm talkin' about. (beat) All that mess with ya teachers and... boys in the backs of trucks. 
RAE (shocked) The hell you know about me?! You got no right to talk to me about that shit! The hell you think you are? 
LAZARUS (interrupting) I've saved ya life, gal. I can do and say whatever the fuck I want. 
Rae begins to feel a pang of panic. She goes to the chain locked around the radiator. She yanks on it a few times. 
LAZARUS I give ya enough chain so's you can get about the house. Get you to the kitchen. You need the bathroom, it'll reach. 
RAE What do you want? 
LAZARUS We got everything we need. Plenty of food. Ya medicine still got a few good swallows in it... 
RAE WHAT DO YOU WANT FROM ME?! (Laz can't answer) WHATEVER YOU GONNA DO TO ME, JUST DO IT! AND LET ME GO! 
LAZARUS God saw to it to put you in my path. And I aim to cure ya of your wickedness. 
This statement terrifies Rae. The fear can be seen in her eyes. She backs away -- the chain scrapes across the floor. 
RAE You some kind'a pervert? 
LAZARUS No ma'am. 
RAE Some crazy Jesus freak, gonna fuck the spirit into me... 
LAZARUS In my house, you watch that lip... 
RAE (furious, near tears) Look it, mister... you wanna have your way, you take it. I'll do whatever you want. But you gotta let me go. You can't do this! You can't KEEP ME HERE! 
LAZARUS You sick. You got a sickness... we broke that fever... we gonna break that hold the devil got on ya. 
Rae pushes Laz back and bolts for the door. Laz falls back against the side table by the couch, toppling the lamp. 
EXT. LAZARUS' HOME / INT. LAZARUS' HOME - AFTERNOON 
The door slams against the house as Rae rushes out in her wolf shirt and panties -- the chain trailing behind her. 
RAE (screaming) HELP! 
Laz watches as the coil unravels and snaps taut, yanking on the old radiator. 
Clank! The chain whips Rae down to the ground. Laz watches as dust flies of the radiator with each tug. 
RAE SOMEBODY! 
CLANK! 
The fear in Laz's face is replaced with a grin as he watches his radiator hold firm. 
RAE SOMEBODY HELP ME! 
Outside, Rae bucks and screams, yanking on the chain like a wild mustang. Her bare feet and legs are soiled with fresh mud and grass as she claws at the ground. 
Laz crosses to the radiator and pats it like a proud parent -- his wedding ring clicks against the iron. 
LAZARUS (to the radiator) Ain't gonna be moved. 
Laz kneels next to her and gently frees her bare ankle from the tangled chain. 
LAZARUS You hungry? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - ON THE PORCH - LATER THAT DAY 
They are both seated on the front porch with paper plates in their laps. Laz watches with amusement as Rae tears into her chicken and gobbles up the vegetables. 
LAZARUS I put some back ache into growin' them greens. You should slow down and see how they taste. 
Rae remains under Lazarus' intense gaze as the cicadas sing. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE VEGETABLE GARDEN - SUNSET 
Rae stares off at orange clouds and purple sky. She takes a step to her left, walking through the parallel rows of squash. 
The chain gently rattles behind her. Laz has given her about 20 feet of slack. He holds the chain tight around his fist. 
Rae grins, standing proud in her wolf shirt and panties. 
RAE You like this? Walkin' me through this field like I's your mule? 
LAZARUS Can't sit all day on that sofa. Need to get your legs strong. 
RAE (sassy) If I break one you gonna shoot me? 
Rae teases Laz by adjusting her panties. She turns back to the sunset and stretches. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT 
Rae's smoldering eyes don't leave Laz as he chains her to the radiator. Laz nervously preaches, trying to avoid the sight of her bare legs curled up on his couch. 
LAZARUS My Daddy was one of the first mens to organize soil conservation in these parts. That's a group of farmers, you know, each season they'd rotate the crop. Know why it's best to rotate em like that? 
RAE Uh-uh. 
Laz moves in close and starts applying antibacterial cream to the cut above Rae's eye. 
LAZARUS Cuz once in a while soil need a change. Corn take up a lot of nitrate in the fertilizer. So next crop what ya do is plant ya some soy beans. That give off a lot of nitrate. Change keeps it all growin' and growin' strong. (regarding the eye) Sting a bit? 
RAE Itches. 
LAZARUS Means ya healin'. (a nod) So all this farmin' make me think on Matthew. Matthew 13. The parable of the sower? Man toss seed on rock, on the wayside, some fell in thorns... you know the story? 
RAE Uh-uh. 
Laz starts putting the cream on her scabbed knees. He rubs them gently. 
LAZARUS The seed that land on good soil is for them who hear the word of God... and understand the word of God. Not enough for you to hear what I'm sayin', you gotta understand. 
RAE I know. I get it. What's Matthew doin'? 
LAZARUS Gal... Matthew ain't doin' shit... this just a story... (quelling his frustration) Look it. I've seen it in nature, I've seen it in men. Ya got to change up your crop. Cuz that seed ain't gettin' in. (Rae remains silent) Ya gotta cut this shit out. Got no cause to be up under these fools, ruttin' on ya like you a bitch. Like you somebody's dog. No woman... who joins in union with Almighty God... or man... in the sanctity of marriage... should degrade herself... and bend to ANOTHER MAN'S WILL! 
Rae is aware that Laz is somewhere else, talking to someone else other than her. There is anger in his tone as he rubs ointment on her bare, scabbed knees. 
LAZARUS (shouting) My God, gal, don't you got no SENSE? I ain't sayin' I ain't weak? Shit. Playin' guitar in the blood-bucket jukes all ya life... a nigga learn how to sin, let me tell you! (grips her by the legs) I GOT SIN IN ME! I AIN'T GO'N LIE! BUT I GOT RESPECT! AND ALL YOU GOT IS BILE, GAL! 
RAE Let go of me... 
LAZARUS GIVIN' UP THAT SWITCH LIKE A TRAMP! BEHIND MY BACK AND KILL MY BABY...! 
Rae yanks free of Laz's grip, recoiling on the couch. 
RAE GET OFF ME! 
Laz awakens from his rant. He blinks and stands. A sudden shame overtakes him. He crosses into the kitchen to hide by the sink. 
He pours Rae a glass of water and returns to her side. 
LAZARUS (offering her the glass) Didn't mean to go off on a tear like I did. I just got to thinkin' about things... 
Rae leans up into his face. The glass of water is touching her chest. Laz remains hypnotized by her eyes. 
RAE Why is it you old men gotta talk so much? Like little boys, gotta talk yourself into fuckin' me. (his knuckles touch her skin) We can take our time. I'm grown. I get it. (she leans even closer) You wanna give me 'nother bath? 
Laz stands and backs away. He quickly leaves the room. 
INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - THE BEDROOM - NIGHT 
ELLA MAE Well... I hope these will work for your niece. She can always come back in and swap sizes. 
Lazarus points to a small display of fine lotions. 
LAZARUS Mind I ask, what's all this business here? 
ELLA MAE These are whipped body creams. It's like a lotion. 
LAZARUS For your hands? 
ELLA MAE Some women prefer not to scent their bodies with perfume. So now they have scented creams. They help moisturize a woman's skin. (unscrewing a jar) This one's my favorite. It's called Ginger Souffle. I recommend... applying the cream while the skin is still damp. So... perhaps just after a shower. 
LAZARUS (likes what he smells) I'll take a jar of that, too. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - AFTERNOON 
Rae rattles into the kitchen, her damp clothes clinging to her form. She picks up Laz's guitar off the table and places it in her lap. 
She plucks a few random strings out of boredom and smiles. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MACON DRUGS - AFTERNOON 
The same apathetic girl is working the front counter as Laz enters the drug store with a basket of arranged vegetables. 
LAZARUS Lookin' for Miss Angela. 
GIRL She in the back. 
Laz makes his way to the back of the store. He spies Angela in the back pharmacy, sorting pills for a pick-up. He watches her work for a moment until, finally, she sees him. 
ANGELA Wait right there. 
Laz waits as Angela rounds the corner. 
LAZARUS I brung you a little basket of goodies. Fresh squash, tomatoes, some okra, butter beans. 
ANGELA (taking the basket) You didn't have to do this. 
LAZARUS Just wanted to say how much I appreciate you helping me the other day. My niece, she's cured up, and I got you to thank. 
ANGELA Well that's good. I'm happy to hear it. 
Angela smiles. There is tension and attraction between the two. 
LAZARUS Look here. I got somethin' special for you. 
Angela is flush as Laz moves closer than he has ever been before. He reaches in the basket for the jar of cream. 
LAZARUS This here is a whipped... body cream. And it's got a smell to it. Tell me what you think. 
Laz holds the jar up to her nose. Angela closes her eyes and smells. Her expression says enough -- she loves it. 
LAZARUS They call this Ginger Souffle. Best if it... if it go on your skin just after you been in a hot tub... or shower. 
Angela takes the lotion from his hand. She is subtle and demure, but the woman is deeply affected. She smiles. 
ANGELA This was very sweet of you. 
LAZARUS Well. Hope you enjoy it. 
Angela watches Laz as he walks out the door. The apathetic girl moves up behind Angela. 
GIRL Oooooo. 
ANGELA Hush up. 
EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - MACON DRUGS - AFTERNOON 
Laz opens his truck and waves goodbye to Old Red. Melvin is holding a healthy squash. 
RED You gonna be on the square later on? 
LAZARUS Got all my honey-do's done with. I'm headin' home. 
RED Stay cool. It's a hot one. 
Laz pulls away in his truck and rounds the corner just as R.L. crosses the street. He steps over to talk to Red. 
R.L. Hey, Red. Was that Laz just left? 
RED Yes'sir, Rev'rend. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. GREYHOUND BUS STATION - LATE AFTERNOON 
A bus stops at the station. The doors swing open. A few passengers exit the bus followed by Ronnie. 
He is not wearing his uniform. 
EXT. GREYHOUND BUS STATION - PHONE BOOTH - LATE AFTERNOON 
He drops his duffle bag and pops a few quarters in the phone. He waits, allows the phone to ring. 
RONNIE (into the phone) This is Ronnie again. Don't know if you been gettin' my messages but... I'm down at the bus station and... (struggles) I just need you come get me. You get this message, I'm on the interstate headin' downtown toward the square. (sadness hits) Rae. I really need you to... come find me. Please. 
Ronnie hangs up the phone. He remains motionless, fearful and alone. 
He picks up his duffle and walks down the interstate. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - SUNSET 
Lincoln stands over the barbecue spraying lighter fluid over the coals while R.L. peels back the corn husks. 
LINCOLN We gonna eat with her? 
R.L. That's what I was told. 
LINCOLN She still gonna have that chain on? 
R.L. Well... I'm working on that. (trying to change the subject) So... what's goin' on in your life, Lincoln? 
LINCOLN I ain't no virgin no more? 
Lincoln tosses a match on the coals. They ignite with flame. 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - SUNSET 
Laz is humming to himself as he finishes chopping up the potatoes. He wipes his hands and catches Rae standing behind him. 
She looks classic in the floral sundress. She folds her arms, feeling awkward under Laz's approving gaze. 
LAZARUS Now that's sharp. That is sharp. Chain give you any trouble? 
RAE Uh-uh. 
LAZARUS Good. Now I got the steaks on, potatoes at a boil, and biscuits ready to pop in the oven. R.L. and Lincoln out yonder grillin' up the corn. What do you know how to make? 
RAE I don't fuckin' cook. 
LAZARUS (a look of disappointment) Gal, I been around hard-cursin' folk all my life. And let me tell you... 
RAE Look it... I put the Goddamn dress on, didn't I? I think I'm handlin' myself with some... fuckin' restraint here... how you got me locked up like a dog on a... 
LAZARUS If all you got is filth comin' out'cha mouth... people just gonna tune ya out. (interrupting her) Rae. RAE! I'm not fightin' with ya. I just know you got more in you than junk. (a breath) Now, you sayin' you don't know how to cook anything at all? (Rae shrugs) You know how to boil water? 
RAE I can handle that. 
LAZARUS (hands Rae a pot) Well, get to it. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - AT THE TABLE - NIGHT 
The four of them (Rae, Laz, Lincoln, and R.L.) are all seated at the kitchen table, holding hands as R.L. says grace. 
Rae peeks at the others with their eyes closed tight. She follows their example. 
R.L.  We ask that you bless this meal put before us. May the food nourish our bodies and this fellowship nourish our spirit. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. 
LAZARUS & LINCOLN Amen. 
There is a sudden flurry of activity at the table as the four begin piling up their plates. 
R.L. Pass them potatoes, Lincoln. 
LAZARUS Y'all let me know if these steaks are too dry. 
R.L. This all looks wonderful. 
LINCOLN I skipped lunch. 
LAZARUS Well, dig in, son. Got plenty to eat. 
Rae's eyes are fixed on R.L. as he picks up a devilled egg. She looks over at Laz who is aware of her anxiety. He gives her a wink. 
RONNIE Uh-uh. I's hitchin' up the interstate when I seen your truck outside. 
GILL You need a ride? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
Gill's truck rounds the bend and up the gravel drive leading up to Ronnie's trailer. 
The headlights scan across the porch as Gill parks. 
INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
Ronnie is the first through the door, calling out for Rae before he can turn on the lights. 
RONNIE Rae? 
Gill enters. He sees that the trailer is the same as it was the day he picked up Ronnie, nothing is different. 
RONNIE This don't feel right. Kitchen looks just like I left it. I know, cuz I cleaned it. 
GILL She ever tell you she was thinkin' of taking off? 
RONNIE I just been so mixed up lately, Gill. And, you know, with her history, I can see how she could get scared... (tears) ...and run. 
Gill is disturbed by Ronnie's sudden flood of emotion and tears. He crosses to the pantry, already knowing which cupboard to pull the liquor out of. 
He pours two drinks. He hands one to Ronnie. 
GILL Drink. Come on, drink some. 
Ronnie manages a few swallows. 
RONNIE Her momma works down at the grocery, down on the square. Maybe she seen her. 
Gill stands over Ronnie, looking down on his pitiful face. 
GILL Ronnie. You can't see cuz you're too close to it. (Ronnie waits) These nervous spells you get. You never had that shit back in school... 
RONNIE That's not right, really, cuz I... 
GILL (continuing) You joined up in that monkey troop cuz you had a plan for yourself. Army'd pay for school. You were gonna get a degree, maybe somethin' in business or agriculture and you were gonna make somethin' of yourself. 
His words are painful to Ronnie. Gill doesn't hold back. 
GILL And then you had to fall in love with the school slut. 
RONNIE Now wait... 
GILL (continuing) With all she was doin'. With all the shit she kept doing! You stayed stuck to that bitch's ass and you wouldn't let go. 
RONNIE I know about how she was like. But we was different. I's the only person she talked to about it. How she's abused. Terrible things, Gill, just terrible... 
Rage suddenly fills Gill. He grabs Ronnie and throws him against the wall. 
GILL YOU HAD A PLAN! YOU HAD A GODDAMN LIFE! AND SHE JUST FUCKED THE GUTS OUT OF YOU! 
RONNIE It's not her fault, Gill. She's had to take care of me all this time, cuz I'd just start throwin' up... choking. Just losin' my grip. And she listened. She listened to me. (Gill releases Ronnie and walks away) And... I got better. I don't get nervous like I used to. And since we been together... she been faithful to me. Put all that junk behind her... 
GILL The only thing that cunt's had behind her is me and half the town fuckin' her. (Ronnie can't believe it) Your first night away, I come over and drop off the spare keys like you wanted me to. You weren't gone two hours and she was aching to get me inside her. Like she was havin' some kind'a fit. 
Ronnie can't respond. Tears roll down his face. Gill holds up the whiskey bottle. 
GILL (pours a drink) Don't you think it's funny how I know where everything in your house is? (moves in close) I don't care if that hurts you or not. Truth is I don't know who you are anymore. So fuck it. 
Gill turns away. Ronnie grips Gill around the neck from behind. He bends him back painfully and throws his head up against the wall. 
EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
The front door burst open as Gill goes flying down the front porch. Ronnie cocks a .45 and shoves it into his belt. 
Ronnie pins Gill's elbow behind his back and retrieves the keys from his front pocket. 
GILL You gonna steal my truck? 
RONNIE Make yourself at home. You done it already. 
Gill watches Ronnie tear down the drive in his own truck. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - NEAR THE BARN - NIGHT 
Laz and R.L. are smoking. Laz smiles as he watches Lincoln and Rae through the kitchen window as they wash dishes and talk about football. 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Rae watches with intense curiosity as Laz tunes his guitar, sitting at the table. 
LAZARUS (takes another drink) Ain't played 'fore nobody in years. 
Laz slides his calloused fingers across the strings, spurring the old guitar into an impressive wail. Rae grips the chair. 
LAZARUS (plays as he remembers) Funny how a sound just speak to ya heart. 
A haunting slide guitar riff barks. Rae has a physical reaction to the music. She is fascinated and fearful. 
LAZARUS (thinks) Wanted me some kids. A whole mess of 'em. But Rose, my wife... chil'ren was for another time. (takes a drink) They's this one spring... I saw a change in her. Her breasts start swellin' up. Come a few mornings I hear her heavin' in the bathroom. I seen it with women before. I knew. 
Laz thinks for a moment. Continues playing. 
LAZARUS Come a day, Rose say she had to go visit her folks in Jackson. Didn't want me to come... so I stayed put. (remembers) When she come back... (hesitates) They talk about a woman havin' that glow. Couldn't see it no more. She... took it away. Cut it out. 
The guitar's song turns dark. Laz slides his fingers up the guitar strings, lingering on low growns. 
LAZARUS One night... While she sleepin'. Held a pillow in my hands. I could see myself killin' her. What evil in my heart make me wanna kill her, I don't know? It's that voice in me. Each time I think it's gone, he come howlin' back. Devil or no, I don't know. But I am a haunted man. 
Fear spreads across Rae's face. Laz is talking about something all too familiar. 
LAZARUS Calls me when I'm ailing. When I can't find my home, lost in the pines. I calls it the Black Snake Moan. (he closes his eyes and sings) Mm-mm... Got no momma now.Mm-mm... Got no momma now.It's over late last night, don't need no momma now. 
Laz stops. He sways back and forth with his eyes closed. Rae hears the swell of the cicadas. Her eyes dart to the front door as the familiar creek of footsteps are heard. 
RAE Sing, Lazarus. (kneels next to him in fear) Please keep singin'. 
The door swings open. A white calloused hand appears around Rae's mouth. 
She gasps in terror, clutching Laz's leg. The white hand is gone. Tears come to her. She trembles as Laz sings. 
LAZARUS (singing) Mm-mm... Black snake crawlin' in my room.Mm-mm... Black snake crawlin' in my room.Some pretty momma better come and get this black snake soon. 
Rae rests her head against his knee. 
LAZARUS (singing) Black snake is evil, black snake is all I see.Black snake is evil, black snake is all I see.Woke up this mornin', black snake moved in on me. 
Laz concludes the song. Rae raises up to her knees, facing Laz. Tears have run down his dried face. He opens his eyes. 
LAZARUS My life is gone. Only life I was livin'. And I lost it. 
RAE I'm here with you. 
LAZARUS I had love in my heart. And I gave it to one woman. And she gone now. (his lip quivers) Where am I gonna put all this love? 
Rae gently touches his cheek. The wind picks up outside. 
RAE You can give it to me. 
Rae kisses Laz. He is motionless at first, allowing it to happen. His hand moves from the neck of his guitar to the bend in her neck. 
The passion intensifies as they squeeze the guitar between them. 
Laz pulls his lips away and holds her head in his hands. They are so close, they are breathing into each other's mouths. 
RAE You can't start this and not finish. Not with me. (kisses him) Please... 
The guitar clangs to the floor as Laz lifts Rae in his arms. They kiss, ravenous for each other. He knocks up against the side table, causing his Bible to fall to the floor, face up and open. The wind pushes the front door open, slamming it hard against the wall. 
They turn together, kissing, Laz slowly spinning with Rae in his arms. But Laz is soon distracted by the pages of his Bible fluttering on the floor. The wind is blowing the pages, turning them with an unseen hand. 
LAZARUS Wait... I gotta stop... (Rae's kisses get more aggressive) Rae stop... (she can't hear, the burning has her) Dammit, Rae... GET OFF! 
It takes a considerable effort to pull Rae away. She falls to the floor, dizzy and sucking in air. 
LAZARUS This ain't the way for me. I'm sorry. 
Rae is struggling for breath. She desperately grabs at Laz. 
RAE Not gonna lie to you, Laz... (labored breath) This one's a doozy. I don't think... I don't think I can stop this. 
Her eyes roll back briefly, almost losing consciousness. Laz catches her and holds her tightly. 
LAZARUS Tell me what to do. 
RAE (Barely able to speak) The... chain helps. 
Laz grips the chain and wraps it around Rae. 
As the burning increases. Laz holds Rae tight across his lap, his back up against the radiator. 
RAE I seen a man die. He couldn't breathe... his heart was... was givin' out. 
Rae kneels down next to her. She's trying to make a connection. 
SANDY What happened to your face? 
RAE Got in a little accident. 
SANDY (not believing her) Yeah. 
Sandy stands and wipes her brow. 
RAE Since you workin' on the square now, maybe we could get some coffee in the morning, if you want. 
SANDY You need money again? 
RAE No. That's not why... (a frustrated breath) Why we always gotta do this? I mean, you and me been at each other as far back as I can remember. Wasn't no love between us. And I'm your daughter. I'm the only family you got. 
SANDY You never needed nobody. Always made that clear to me. 
RAE Yeah. I know I did. But... (struggles with tears) I'm tryin' to be dif'rent. I'm tryin' to... get some peace, you know? 
SANDY I'm workin' here, Rae. Can you see that? 
RAE I just wanted some make-up. 
SANDY All that shit's on aisle 5. 
Rae starts walking away. She quickly turns. 
RAE I just think you should'a kept him off me, that's all. 
SANDY The hell are you talkin' about? 
RAE Now see? Don't do that. I'll go along with all you say about me. But that... you can't pretend no more on that. Cuz I was just a kid, Momma. (a terrible silence) I didn't know about any of that stuff he was doin' to me. (tears well up) And you let him do it. Some big nobody in your life... and you let him do as he wanted... with the only SOMEBODY you had. 
It is clear from Sandy's reserved anguish that Rae is telling the truth. 
Sandy firmly grips her by the arm and walks her out. Rae winces in pain like a toddler being led off to a car for a good whipping. 
RAE I'm sorry... I didn't mean to shout... 
SANDY All my life I been puttin' out your fires, with you givin' out your snatch to every waggin' dick in this town. And you gonna lay the blame at my feet? Well, I ain't gonna take that. 
RAE But... Momma... just tell me... not gonna be mad... we can just talk about it... Be eye to eye on this... You don't even got to say you're sorry... Just say how you knew... 
SANDY Only thing I'm sorry for is listenin' to my parents and having you instead of doin' what I should'a done. 
Sandy walks back up the aisle returning to her canned tuna. 
And then the rage hits Rae. 
With each breath Rae grits her teeth tighter. She grabs a mop off the side aisle and turns around. Sandy is pricing cans, down on her knees. She doesn't see Rae coming. 
RAE ...tell me you don't know... goddamn LIAR! 
Rae clocks her over the head, sending Sandy into the display of cans. Rae hits her again with the mop. She is screaming in short anguished breaths. 
Rae grabs everything she can and dumps them onto Sandy: Bags of flour, cans, entire shelves of ketchup. 
RAE SAY IT! JUST FUCKING SAY IT! 
Mark comes running to the aisle followed by two other employees. Stunned customers watch in amazement. 
MARK Rae! Rae! What are you doin'? 
RAE (hysterically screaming and thrashing the mop) GET OFF ME! GET OFF ME! GET... HIM...OFF! 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - AFTERNOON 
Laz and Angela are seated next to each other under the gazebo. 
ANGELA I's thinkin' about singing in the choir. 
LAZARUS At church? 
ANGELA Mm-hm. I don't know if I got a good voice or not but... practice is only on Mondays and Wednesdays, so... 
LAZARUS (grinning) You gonna sing me somethin'? 
ANGELA When? Now? Oh. No. 
LAZARUS Come on, just a little somethin'. Right here. Go'on now, don't be shy. 
Angela blushes. She looks around and then leans in close to Laz. She sings softly, sweetly, with all her soul. 
We CUT TO him on his stomach searching for something under his bed. 
Another old guitar case comes out, followed by another, then another. Finally, Laz stands, an old maroon case in his grip. 
He opens the latches on the side and lifts the thin lid, revealing a gorgeous cream colored electric guitar. 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT 
Rae has not fallen asleep yet. She turns to see Laz entering the dark room with the maroon guitar case. 
LAZARUS You and me, we night owls. No use fightin' this shit. (tosses her a dress) Get up. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BOJO'S - NIGHT 
Laz's truck groans as it bounces into the crowded parking lot of Bojo's. 
Rae steps out, looking beautiful in her sun dress. Laz slams the door to his truck, guitar case in hand. 
They begin walking inside. Rae's watch goes off. She quickly turns it off. But a faint echo of the alarm can be heard behind her. She stops and turns toward the truck. The sound is gone. 
LAZARUS What is it? 
RAE Nothin'. 
They go inside. 
Ronnie's hand appears from under the blue tarp in the back of Laz's truck. He pulls himself out and looks around. 
INT. BOJO'S - NIGHT 
Laz and Rae stand like strangers by the door. The place is wall to wall -- people at the bar, people playing pool. 
Laz sees the culprit of this show. R.L. is gabbing with Bojo, a beer in his hand. 
LAZARUS Get'chu at that table up yonder. 
RAE By myself? 
LAZARUS You can handle it. 
As Rae makes her way through the crowd of people, Laz marches over to R.L. 
LAZARUS The hell is this shit? 
R.L. What? I called Bojo, like you say. Called up the fellas in the band... 
LAZARUS The fuck are all these people doin' here? Been drinkin' in this shit hole for years ain't seen this many people since I don't know... 
BOJO Shit hole... Hey kiss my ass, Laz. 
LAZARUS Nigga, you go'on kiss my ass. Ya both called everybody, didn't ya? 
Bojo turns away to another customer. R.L. grins as he removes a flask. He offers it to Laz. Laz snaps it away. 
LAZARUS There you go, preacher man. Get me drunk so I don't stick my foot up yo ass. 
R.L. I just know how you get. Good to know, them butterflies still in ya gut. 
Laz and R.L. look over at Rae seated alone at a small table near the stage. 
R.L. Heard about this morning. 
LAZARUS We ain't here to talk about that shit. 
Laz surprises R.L. by walking away and up onto the stage. 
Rae watches as Laz, shakes hands with some of the band members. A few whistles from the crowd. 
Laz sits down at a chair off to the right of a short mic stand. 
He plugs in. 
Rae watches curiously as Laz tunes his guitar -- moans of electric distortion. 
R.L. sits next to her. 
R.L. You in for it, now. He gonna nail it to the wall tonight. I done pissed him off. 
The drummer kicks in. Laz tears into the strings. The entire place begins to undulate and bounce as Laz returns to the blues. 
LAZARUS (singing) I don't know, but I been around, tell me them women shake 'em on down. 
Cheers. Rae watches in awe. She's never seen anything like it. She is surrounded by couples dancing so close they might as well be naked. But there is also a great sense of safety as Laz controls the room with his music. 
RONNIE You feelin' sick? 
RAE I'm just in one of my moods. You know how I get. 
RONNIE Yeah, I know. 
Ronnie tries to look away, trying to make an awkward moment less awkward. Rae's anxiety is hitting her. 
RAE I think it'd be better if you talk to me. 
RONNIE Yeah? 
RAE Just about anything, you know. It can be funny or... not. Just tell me somethin'. 
Ronnie nervously considers this before agreeing to open his mouth. He points into the tub. 
RONNIE Well. That's my vomit. I came in here to get sick. I thought I'd make the toilet but... anyway, I got sick. 
RAE Are you wasted? 
RONNIE No. I just got a messed up stomach. 
RAE (remembering) Holy shit! 
RONNIE What? 
RAE Holy shit, Ronnie! (smacks him on the arm) You're a fuckin' rock star. 
RONNIE I'm a what? 
RAE All them people shoutin' your name like they were doing tonight! Shit! That arm you got'll get'chu on a box of cereal... 
Ronnie leans over and dry heaves into the tub. It is painful. Rae leans forward and touches his back, comforting him. 
RAE Hey? You okay, Ronnie? 
Ronnie falls back, gripping his stomach, there are tears in his eyes from the dry heaving. Suddenly emotion hits him. 
RONNIE (through tears and clenched teeth) Box of cereal... well, Goddamn... (looks at his trembling fists) Everybody keeps sayin' things to me take make me feel great. But I don't feel great at all. I feel like I'm comin' outta my skin. Like I'm losin' control of my mind. (looks into Rae's eyes) I'm not like this. I'm not usually so... afraid. (really starts crying) I don't know what's... wrong... 
Rae pulls Ronnie to her. He cries into her shoulder. She gently rubs his wet face and sings her words of comfort. 
RAE Is'okay... Is'okay... 
Ronnie begins to calm down. The sobbing abates. 
The metal music from the party outside is muffled through the door. The two hold onto each other in silence. 
Rae pees. They both giggle, a welcome release of tension. 
RAE I feel better. Do you? 
RONNIE Yeah, I do. 
EXT. LAZARUS' BARN - NIGHT 
Ronnie lifts his head from sleep - his memory of Rae has vanished. 
He is leaning against the corner of the barn, his .45 in his grip. His gaze slowly turns toward Laz's darkened house. 
His hand begins to shake. 
FADE TO BLACK. 
EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - EARLY MORNING 
A crow squawks in the rows of corn. A bright morning is coming. 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING 
Laz is still asleep. The sound of clumsy guitar playing, accompanied by a tiny voice, can be heard. 
RAE (plucking, trying to find the right note) You... are my... sunshine. 
Laz opens his eyes. 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - EARLY MORNING 
Laz quietly creeps into the doorway to watch Rae struggle with the guitar playing. He could stay there for hours watching this little girl play his guitar. 
Rae looks up and sees Laz. She stops playing. 
RAE Sorry. 
LAZARUS Looks like you know a song. 
LAZARUS Test. Shit. What kind'a test you thinkin'? You mean like, if you a man or not? If you a killer? Only one way to prove that. You just look me in the eye, boy, and you squeeze that trigger back. 
Ronnie grips the shaking gun. A severe attack is on the rise as he listens to Laz. 
LAZARUS Ain't that easy, is it? I been in some scraps, son, I know. First there's that loud crack. Always louder than you think. Like it just come-up- a-cloud and clapped a mess thunder right in ya hand. BAM! 
Ronnie flinches. He tries to control his breathing. 
LAZARUS White light. Smell of smoke. Taste of my blood and brains in your mouth, stingin' ya eyes. 
Ronnie almost vomits, but he holds it back. 
RAE Oh, baby... just let me... 
Rae moves closer to him, wanting to comfort him but she stops as Ronnie points the gun at her. His eyes pleading for her to stay back. 
RONNIE GODDAMMIT, RAE! 
LAZARUS BOY! YOU KEEP THAT GUN POINTED AT ME! (Ronnie obeys) You need to kill a man, all you gotta have is a good reason. (watches Ronnie fight his attack) You know she been here with me, don't cha? Been all over town, givin' up that switch you thought was your own. 
RONNIE SHUT UP! SHUT UP! 
LAZARUS Put all your love and dreams into one woman... she turn around and give it all to another man. That's a good reason to paint the wall with me, kid. She'd fear ya then. Cuz there won't be no more question in her mind. She with a real man now. A real KILLER! 
A flood of tears are streaming down Ronnie's face. The gun is shaking furiously in his hand. 
RONNIE Don't... don't say that to me... 
LAZARUS (getting fed up) Son, I'm grown. Don't got patience to suffer you children and this monkey junk. I'm too old to play house... (looks at Rae and then back at Ronnie) ...and cowboys. So let's have it. End me or get out of my face! 
Ronnie looks like a scared five year old having an asthma attack. Laz barks at him one last time. 
LAZARUS Go'on. Do it. (silence) DO IT! 
The last shout from Laz completely destroys Ronnie. His shoulders slump. The gun lowers in his grasp. A low sob is heard as he falls to his knees. 
Laz snatches the gun from his hand and stands. 
RAE Ronnie? 
Rae inches closer to Ronnie as he kneels over and weeps. She gently touches his shoulder. He turns his anguished face to her and tries to speak. 
RONNIE I can't stop... I can't stop... being scared. What am I gonna do... 
Ronnie hides his face in his hands. Rae throws her arms around him and holds him tight. 
RAE I got you, baby... I got you... 
Laz removes the clip and crosses to the kitchen. He slams the gun on the sink, opens a drawer and removes the wall phone. 
RAE (seeing Laz plug the phone in) What are you doing? (Laz dials a number) You gonna call the cops? You think they gonna help this? They ever help you, Laz? Huh? (Laz listens on the phone) DAMMIT LAZ PUT THE PHONE DOWN? 
Laz looks at Rae. There is hurt in his eyes. 
LAZARUS Thought you knew me better, gal. (into the phone) I need you at my house... right now. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT 
R.L. crosses from the kitchen. He hands a glass of water to Rae seated on the couch. He hands another to Ronnie seated next to her. R.L. sits before them as Laz lingers in the doorway. 
R.L. (to Ronnie) I imagine there's a lot of good between you two. But I want you to tell me what's bad. Go'on. And don't hold back. 
Ronnie is very uncomfortable. He looks at Rae seated next to him and then back at R.L.. 
RONNIE I hate this town. You can't round the corner without bumping into someone who's got your number. (a brief look at Rae) We did a lot of dreamin', me and Rae. Makin' plans to get out. I'd do my tour and... we'd move outta here. Go to Chattanooga. And I'd work for my uncle. (looks down, tears come to Ronnie) But... when Rae gets like she does. And she does the things that she always done. Makes me feel like she loves this place more'n me. 
Rae starts shaking her head, tears come to her eyes. R.L. raises a hand to silence her. 
R.L. Go on, Ronnie. 
RONNIE All my life people called me shit like, sissy and... nervous and... I got few things in my life that make me feel like... like... 
LAZARUS Like a man. 
RONNIE (surprised) Yes. I mean that's it. I wanna feel like a man with her. I wanna feel like the only man with her. 
Ronnie wipes the tears from his eyes with his shirt sleeve. R.L. turns to Rae. 
R.L. (looks at Rae) Now, Rae, we're not here to fix you or judge you. Only you and the Almighty can do that. But I want you to tell me about these spells you get. 
Rae takes a deep breath. She looks up at Laz. He encourages her with a nod. 
RAE It starts like this... fire... that spreads. Starts in my head. Then moves to my stomach. Then it goes lower. I can stop it sometimes but mostly I just jump on and ride it out... then everything'll go back to normal, you know. Only thing ever took that feeling away was... was... when I met Ronnie. (the emotion really hits hard) Cuz I love him so much. He's all I got in my life that's special. And I like taking care of him and helping him when he gets nervous. When I can do that for him... it's like I'm givin' somethin' of myself that I haven't givin' nobody else. 
Rhonda has three white dresses over her arm as she hurries past Ronnie, seated next to the back dressing rooms. 
The door doesn't close all the way. He stands and moves in for a peek. Angela pokes her head out and grins. 
ANGELA What are you doing? 
RONNIE (shrugs) Just wanted to see. 
ANGELA You know the rules. (vacant look from Ronnie) You do know the rules, don't you? 
RONNIE Yeah, I know. 
ANGELA Then start taking them seriously. 
RONNIE Yes, ma'am. 
INT. ELLA MAE'S WOMEN'S CLOTHING - DRESSING ROOM - DAY 
Rae is standing in bra and panties up on a small platform in front of a tri-divided mirror. Ella Mae takes the dresses from Rhonda. 
Angela sees that Rae is nervous. 
ANGELA It's okay to breathe, honey. 
RAE Yes, ma'am. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - LATE DAY 
Ronnie is wearing a brown corduroy jacket. He is attempting to tie his neck tie in the side mirror of Laz's truck. 
Lincoln, also wearing his Sunday best, steps up behind him. 
LINCOLN You Ronnie? 
RONNIE Yeah. 
LINCOLN I'm Lincoln. Guess I'm gonna be your best man. 
RONNIE (ultimately accepting) Okay. 
LINCOLN You havin' trouble with that tie? Cuz I'm pretty good at it. 
Ronnie nods. Lincoln steps behind him to tie the tie. 
LINCOLN Gotta do it like this or I get all turned around. 
INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - LATE DAY 
Laz is wearing the same suit he wore at the cafe with Rose. He is seated in Ronnie's trailer, outside the back bedroom door. 
Angela steps out from the bedroom with a grin. 
ANGELA She's ready for you. 
INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - BACK BEDROOM - LATE DAY 
Laz opens the door, carefully looking around the doorjam. He sees her standing before the dresser mirror. She looks beautiful, simple, and elegant. 
Rae desperately searches Laz's eyes for approval. 
LAZARUS Now that's sharp. That's real sharp. Miss Ella Mae set you up, didn't she? You like it? 
RAE I've had nice things before but I always ruined 'em somehow. 
LAZARUS Well, this one's yours now. You ready to take care of it? 
Rae bows her head. She fights back tears. 
RAE I want to. More'n anything. But I... 
Laz holds her face in his hands. He speaks softly. 
LAZARUS Now... let's stop that. (smiles) You and me... we can handle this. You hear me, gal? We gonna be just fine. Now live ya life. Pull your shit together and live your life. 
His words are piercing and true. Rae nods, decides. 
RAE Okay. 
R.L.'s words are heard as Rae wraps her arms around Laz and rests her head on his chest. 
RAE I don't want you to let go. 
LAZARUS Maybe I won't. 
