BLADE - by David S. Goyer 
BLADE 
by 
David S. Goyer 
Darkness, BLOOD-CURDLING SCREAMS. Presentation credits roll as we FADE UP ON: 
INT. HOSPITAL, INNER-CITY TRAUMA WARD - NIGHT 
It's 1967, the Summer of Love and -- 
BOOM! Entry doors swing open as PARAMEDICS wheel in a FEMALE BLEEDER, VANESSA (20s, black, nine months pregnant). She's deathly pale, spewing founts of blood from a savagely slashed throat -- 
A SHOCK-TRAUMA TEAM swarms over her, inserting a vacutainer into an artery to draw blood, wrapping a blood pressure cuff around her arm -- 
NURSE #1 (with stethoscope) She's not breathing! 
SENIOR RESIDENT Intubate her! 
The RESPIRATORY THERAPIST feeds an endotracheal tube down the woman's ruined throat, attaches that to an Amblu bag -- 
RESIDENT Blood-pressure's forty and falling -- 
The woman starts spasming violently. It takes three staff members just to hold her down. 
SENIOR RESIDENT Jesus, her water's broken -- (calling for help) She's going into uterine contractions -- 
CAMERA PUSHES IN on the woman as she bolts upright, SCREAMING to wake the dead. We PLUNGE INTO the darkness of her mouth and find ourselves -- 
INSIDE HER BLOODSTREAM 
The sound of a HEART BEATING, pounding as we whip-snake through -- 
CORPUSCLES 
floating in amber plasma. Erythrocytes, leukocytes, neutrophils and eosinophils. 
The rhythmic expansion of the artery walls, pulsing with each successive surge of blood as the HEART BEATS FASTER AND FASTER, taking us -- 
IN UTERO, 
A CHILD, alive but unborn, shifting in a sea of amniotic fluid, surrounded by the white, protective substance known as vernix caseosa. The HEARTBEAT races like a locomotive now. The unborn child shifts, turns its head towards us -- 
-- and opens its eyes. 
CUT TO: 
A SWORDBLADE 
cleaving the darkness, radiant light slicing across gleaming Damascus steel. Words acid-etched in the weapon's fine-tempered surface: 
BLADE 
Main credits end. 
EXT. INNER CITY, INDUSTRIAL GHETTO - NIGHT 
A decaying no man's land populated by condemned buildings and HUNGRY HOMELESS. Steam rises from manhole covers, drifting across the litter- lined streets. Suddenly -- 
A black Mercedes 850 appears over the crest of a hill, ROARING past us, stereo system belting out FILTER. 
INT. MERCEDES - NIGHT 
Raquel, a wasp-wasted woman, sits behind the wheel. 20s, rich, sickeningly attractive. Hungry eyes. 
Squirming around in the passenger seat is DENNIS, a model/actor boy- toy with a sub-zero IQ and a "fuck me sideways" grin. 
DENNIS So where we going? 
RAQUEL It's a surprise. 
DENNIS I likes surprises. 
Raquel eyeballs Dennis -- "if looks could devour". 
RAQUEL What do you have down there, little man? 
CURTIS What about the chemistry panel? 
Karen looks to Julie, who reaches for a computer print-out. 
JULIE Blood sugar level is three times the norm, phosphorous and uric acid are off the scales. (shrugs) Like the woman said, impossible. 
Karen removes her glasses, rubbing the bridge of her nose. 
KAREN Curtis, it's three in the morning. I'm really not in the mood for one of your practical jokes. 
CURTIS (insistent) It's not a joke. I've got the stiff sitting in the morgue right now -- look, just come up and see him, okay? Five minutes, that's all I ask. 
KAREN I thought you promised to give me some distance? 
CURTIS This is purely professional curiosity, Karen, I swear. 
Karen rolls her eyes, lets loose a tired sigh. 
KAREN Five minutes, not a second more. And I don't want to hear a word about "us". 
CURTIS No problem. 
INT. HOSPITAL MORGUE - NIGHT 
The dead of night, not a mouse in the house. Curtis and Karen, each garbed in a mask, stand on either side of Quinn's body, which now rests on the autopsy table. 
QUINN'S BODY 
A preliminary exploratory Y-incision has been made across the chest, stretching from shoulder to shoulder, then continuing on down the abdomen. Ribs and cartilage have been cut open to expose the heart and lungs. 
KAREN You haven't started in on the internal organs? 
CURTIS Just the blood sample from the pericardial sac. 
Curtis pauses, studying Quinn's disfigured face -- the features seem much less damaged now -- almost as if the corpse were healing itself. 
CURTIS That's weird -- 
KAREN What? 
CURTIS He looks different now, burns are less extreme, some of these wounds have closed up -- 
Curtis pulls out a penlight, flicks it on. He leans over Quinn, shining the light into one of his eyes. 
CURTIS Tell me something, honestly, you ever have second thoughts about us? 
KAREN (grudgingly) Sometimes -- 
Curtis looks up from the corpse, grinning beneath his mask. 
KAREN -- but then I remember what an ass-hole you were and I'm snapped back to reality. 
CURTIS Jesus, Karen, you're breaking my heart here -- 
Quinn suddenly bolts up from the autopsy table, sinking his fangs into Curtis' jugular. He snaps the man's neck in two for easier access, sucking in blood like a living vacuum. 
Karen stumbles backwards, sending autopsy tools CLATTERING. 
QUINN 
rises from the table, flinging Curtis' twitching body aside. He curls his blood-soaked lips back, baring viper-like fangs, emitting a GUTTURAL GROWL -- 
QUINN (crazed by thirst) -- more -- blood -- 
Karen backs into the corpse drawers, but Quinn is upon her in a half- second, wrapping a hand about her throat. His mouth opens/morphs disturbingly wide as if to swallow her head whole, caustic saliva dripping from his canines -- 
Karen tries to turn her head away, but Quinn's grip is vise-like. She finds herself staring into his eyes -- pupils pulsing rapid-fire, opening and closing, hypnotic -- 
As Quinn sinks the tips of his fangs into Karen's carotid artery and starts to nurse -- 
BANG!!! A load of MAHOGANY buckshot chews into Quinn's side. He HOWLS in pain. Another load catches him full in the face. He drops Karen. She falls to the floor -- 
KAREN'S POV 
The sound of RUSHING BLOOD pounding through her skull. Everything spinning. She struggles to move, turns her head, finds herself eye to eye with Curtis' corpse. 
ON QUINN 
rising, his face torn up, smoking. WHIP PAN TO -- 
A gate grinds open. 
We follow the Olds as it cruises around the back of the building, heading down a concrete loading ramp. At the bottom of the ramp, a heavy iron door rises. Blade's Olds disappears into the darkness. 
INT. ABANDONED FACTORY, INDUSTRIAL ELEVATOR - NIGHT 
More UV lights flicker on. We're in a massive loading elevator which HUMS as it ascends, eventually reaching its destination with a BOOMING CLANG. The doors at the rear glide open. Blade guides the Olds out. 
INT. ABANDONED FACTORY, WHISTLER'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT 
Set up in an old ironworks, the place looks like a cross between an auto junkyard and an armory. Equipment is strewn everywhere -- lathes, mills, old furnaces, gutted vehicles, an ad hoc surgical theater -- all of it jerry-rigged in a brutal, oily-tech. 
Blade climbs out of the Olds. He opens the passenger door and pulls Karen out, carries her in his arms. 
BLADE Whistler! 
WHISTLER (O.S.) Are we bringing home strays now? 
ABRAHAM WHISTLER (60s) 
hobbles out of the shadows, leaning heavily on a cane. Gimlet-eyed, bitter, his right leg encased in a metal brace. Though his face is lined with wrinkles and his hair has long since gone gray, we sense he could kick the living shit out of any man half his age. 
BLADE She's been bitten. 
WHISTLER You should've killed her, then. 
BLADE She hasn't turned yet. (pointedly) You can help her. 
Blade and Whistler stare each other down. Finally, Whistler turns and heads over to the operating theater. 
WHISTLER No promises. You watch her close. She starts to turn, you finish her off. 
Blade nods, lays Karen down on the operating table. Whistler turns on an overhead light. Karen is sheathed in sweat, ashen. She's lost a lot of blood. 
Whistler snaps on a pair of surgical gloves, probes the wound in Karen's neck with an antiseptic swab -- there's capillary damage around the perimeter of the wound, the tissue looks bruised, gangrenous. 
WHISTLER Localized necrosis. She's borderline. Another hour and she'd be well into the change. 
Whistler cracks open a smelling salt capsule and waves under Karen's nose. As she starts to stir -- 
WHISTLER Can you hear me, woman? 
Karen's eyes open wide. She's scared, disoriented -- 
KAREN What -- ? 
WHISTLER You've been bitten by a vampire. We've got to try and burn out the venom, just like a rattlesnake bite -- 
Whistler reaches for a massive syringe filled with caustic-looking fluid. Karen sees the syringe, resists -- 
WHISTLER Hold her. 
Blade forces Karen back. Whistler readies the syringe. 
WHISTLER (reading her name tag) "Dr. Karen Jansen". Listen close, I'm going to inject you with an antidote made from allium setivum -- garlic. This is going to hurt. A lot. 
Whistler sinks the needle into Karen's neck and depresses the plunger. "Hurt" doesn't begin to describe what Karen experiences next. Imagine undergoing childbirth while someone pumps battery acid through your veins. 
Karen SHRIEKS, her body going into uncontrolled paroxysms. The wound on her neck begins to smoke as the antidote attacks the poisonous vampire venom. 
Karen clutches at Blade's arms, digging her nails in. She stares up at him with unflinching intensity, like a child desperately searching for assurance. 
ON BLADE, 
uncomfortable playing the roll of nursemaid. He'd like nothing more than to be done with this, but the only thing he can do is hold Karen while she rides out the seizures. 
KAREN'S POV 
growing darker by the moment. The last thing she sees is Blade staring down at her -- then the night closes in. 
INT. HOUSE OF EREBUS, MEETING ROOM - NIGHT 
CLOSE ON a monitor featuring footage taken at the vampire club massacre. Blade turns and stares into the camera, fires his cross- bow. The screen cuts to static. 
A WITHERED, CLAWED HAND 
moves into frame, holding a remote. With a tap of a button, the monitor goes dark. 
PULL BACK TO REVEAL a large, minimalist conference room -- the House of Erebus, seat of the vampire race's legislative assembly. 
strapped into some kind of Inquisition-esque restraint chair. His shirt is off, his body slick with sweat. Whistler finishes strapping Blade in, then stands back, holding up a gas-powered pistol injector, hesitant -- 
WHISTLER I had to increase the dose. You're building up a resistance to the serum -- 
BLADE (impatient) Just do it, old man. 
Whistler nods, fitting Blade with a bite guard. Then he presses the pistol-injector against Blade's carotid artery. 
Blade shakes violently, grinding his teeth through the bite guard, veins cording in his neck. He clutches Whistler's hand, holding it tightly as he fights his way through the hellish seizure. To his credit, Whistler never lets go. 
Mentor and student stare at one another as the mysterious serum runs its violent course. We understand that these shared moments, oddly private in their horror, are the glue which binds the two vampire hunters together. Finally, Blade slumps forward in his restraints, exhausted. 
KAREN 
She draws back, instinctively knowing that she's just witnessed something she shouldn't have. She looks for an exit, SEES another doorway. She makes for it -- 
INT. WHISTLER'S LAB - TANK ROOM - DAY 
A dusty, darkened hole of a room, no windows, just shadows, crumbling concrete, rust stains, and -- 
A LARGE TANK 
filled with swirling blood plasma, choked with electrical leads and biomedical sensors. SOMETHING floats within, suspended in the murky fluid -- a child , two or three years of age, drifting about like a medical oddity preserved in formaldehyde -- 
THUMP! The child SLAMS up against the glass. Karen backpedals, startled. Its eyes are open now, pupils blown. It snarls, revealing a mouthful of razored fangs, trailing mouth-slime across the glass as it futilely tries to chew its way through to Karen. 
Karen stifles a sob, turning and running right into -- 
BLADE, 
who now blocks the exit, sword in hand. Karen retreats a step, wary -- 
BLADE You shouldn't be here. 
KAREN I'm sorry, I -- 
WHISTLER (O.S.) Wandered off the beaten path, Doctor? 
Whistler has entered the room from a second doorway. Karen looks from Whistler to Blade, trapped between them -- 
KAREN Who are you people? 
WHISTLER My name is Abraham Whistler. (re: Blade) This is Blade. As for our little homunculus here -- 
Whistler limps over to the tank, rapping his cane against it. The creature snaps at it reflexively, following the silver tip back and forth like a fish after a lure. 
BLADE -- he's a vampire. 
KAREN You're joking -- 
WHISTLER Not at all. You're looking at a prime specimen of the homines nocturna. 
Whistler toys with the feral creature, engaging in a certain amount of sadistic delight as its efforts grow increasingly more frenzied. Suddenly, it surges towards the top of the tank, clawing at the lid -- 
Karen becomes alarmed -- but then a massive ELECTRICAL JOLT shocks the creature back into submission. 
WHISTLER If Blade hadn't brought you here, you would've wound up like him. 
Karen brings a hand to her bandaged neck, recalling the events of the previous night. She looks to Blade. 
KAREN Why did you help me? 
Blade scowls, his gaze flickering to Whistler. 
BLADE Stupidity. 
WHISTLER (appraising her) Maybe not. I did some checking, she's a hematologist. Knowledge like that might come in handy. 
BLADE It's not worth the risk. We can't trust her. 
KAREN Why? 
BLADE Because you're tainted. The venom's still inside you. You could still turn on us. 
KAREN What happens then? 
Blade looks to Whistler -- as far as he's concerned, the debate's over. 
BLADE Then I have to take you out, just like any other bloodsucker. 
Just then, Gideon MOANS. Blade drags the man up so they're eye to eye. 
BLADE How 'bout you, Officer? You a good little bloodhound? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. KAREN'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DUSK 
Blade and Karen are now standing by Gideon's police cruiser which is parked outside Karen's apartment. Blade shoves Gideon against the hood of the cruiser. He finds Gideon's keys, moves to the trunk, opens it -- 
IN THE TRUNK -- 
A sophisticated medical cooling unit for transporting organs. Blade opens the unit, coolant vapor hisses out. Inside are plastic bags containing blood. 
BLADE Looks like our friend was blood-running. (to Gideon) Where were you headed? 
Gideon mumbles through a split lip and chipped teeth -- 
GIDEON Mphuck you -- 
WHAM! Blade plants Gideon's face into the hood of the car. Gideon GROANS, coughs -- 
GIDEON Jesus -- 1227 Brookner -- Holliston Clinic -- 
Blade releases him, then reaches for his Casull. 
KAREN What are you doing?! 
BLADE Preventive medicine. 
Karen steps in front of Blade, shielding Gideon. 
KAREN You can't do this, he's human, it's murder. 
BLADE It's war, now get the fuck out of the way! 
Karen grabs Blade's arm, wrestling with him, trying to push his hand away. As the two of them struggle, Gideon makes a break for it, stumbling across the lawn. Blade pushes Karen aside, takes aim, FIRES -- 
-- but Gideon ducks into an alley, disappearing from sight. Blade spins on Karen, enraged -- 
BLADE God-damnit!!! Do you have any idea what you just did?! He'll warn them. They'll be waiting! 
But Karen's defiant, she's not backing down. 
KAREN You were going to kill him. What was I supposed to do?! Shut my eyes and pretend I didn't see what I saw? 
Blade tears off his glasses. Karen gasps -- 
BLADE'S EYES 
aren't human, nor are they vampire. They're something else -- emerald green, laced with swirling flecks of red. 
BLADE Let me set you straight on something, Doctor. What you've "seen" so far is nothing. The world you live in's just the sugar-coated topping. There's another world beneath it, the real world -- and it's a fucking bloodbath. If you want to survive in it, you'd better pull your head out of your ass. 
Blade slips his glasses back on, leaving Karen shocked into silence. He heads for his Olds without looking back, climbs in, guns the engine. In seconds, he's gone, tearing off down the street in a cloud of exhaust. 
EXT. EDGEWOOD TOWERS, PENTHOUSE - DUSK 
We are soaring through the air above the gleaming city skyline, moving towards the Edgewood Towers whose windows reflect the blood- red sinking sun. 
INT. FROST'S PENTHOUSE, POOL - NIGHT 
Suffused lighting, elegant tile-work featuring evocative mosaics, the quiet strains of CLASSICAL MUSIC -- 
MERCURY, 
the lupine Gaultier girl from the club, glides beneath the water, surfacing at the deep end. We SEE -- 
FROST 
lounging in a chair, studying a laptop which rests beside him. On the screen is a digitized image -- a page taken from an ancient manuscript, written in a secret tongue. 
Officer Gideon waits nearby, cradling his ruined hand, his battered face cast downward like a boy who's been called into the Principal's office. 
GIDEON Look, I know you're disappointed -- 
FROST Crestfallen. 
GIDEON Blade was waiting for me. There wasn't anything I could do. 
your basic inner-city blood-barter establishment where desperate transients parley their plasma into cash. 
KAREN (recognizing it) I know this place -- it's a blood bank. 
BLADE Owned by vampires. There's one of these in every major city, and just like Domino's, they always deliver. (looking to Karen) You telling me you're ready to walk through that door? 
Karen nods. Blade continues to stare at her, taking her measure -- there's a strength in this woman's eyes, she has the soul of a fighter -- and Blade recognizes it. 
BLADE All right, then, listen up, Vampire Anatomy 101. Crosses and running water don't do dick, so forget what you've seen in the movies. 
Blade enumerates the following on his fingers: 
BLADE You use the stake, silver, or sunlight, got it? 
Blade holds up one of his Casulls. 
BLADE Know how to use one of these? 
Karen takes the weapon from him, eyes all over it. 
KAREN No. 
Blade takes the gun back, snorting derisively. 
BLADE Safety's off, round's already chambered -- (cocking it) Silver hollow-points filled with garlic. You aim for the heart or the head, anything else is a one-way ticket to a pine box. 
Blade hand it to her again, then starts across the street towards the clinic. Karen follows -- 
INT. HOLLISTON CLINIC, LOBBY - NIGHT 
Blade enters, swinging his rifle around for all to see. 
BLADE Get out. Now. 
The POTENTIAL DONORS scramble for the exit. Behind the counter, TANAKA, a male nurse, reaches for an alarm button. Blade vaults over the counter, aiming his rifle. 
BLADE I know you're blood-running. Who's your sponsor? 
TANAKA I don't know what you're -- 
POW! Blade backhands him across the face hard enough to loosen his teeth. Karen flinches, stepping forward -- 
KAREN What if you've made a mistake? 
Blade pins Tanaka's head to the wall, turning it to the side -- revealing the man's glyph. It's different than Gideon's, looking more like a Japanese kanji character. 
BLADE What's this? A birthmark? 
Blade grips Tanaka by his collar, shoving him through a doorway -- 
INT. HOLLISTON CLINIC, SUPPLY ROOM - NIGHT 
Karen and Blade SEE supply cabinets, cots, a number of locked refrigeration units. Blade FIRES into the door handle of one of the units, tears it open -- the fridge is stacked floor to ceiling with plastic packets of blood. 
BLADE (to Karen) Still think we might be wrong? (to Tanaka) How much are you shipping? 
TANAKA Bite me! 
Blade opens FIRE, sweeping his rifle around the room, shooting everything in sight. Glass cabinetry shatters, ampoules and vacutainers go flying. Tanaka cowers, arms wrapped about his head. 
Blade stops shooting. He leans down towards Tanaka, placing the end of his rifle against the man's forehead. Tanaka looks like he's about to wet his pants. 
BLADE I've got a message for your masters -- the night's no longer safe for their kind. 
Blade pulls back his rifle, leaving a red indentation mark where the end of the rifle barrel pressed into Tanaka's skin. He starts towards the exit. Karen follows. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BLADE'S OLDS - NIGHT 
Blade and Karen return to the Olds. He keys the ignition, lets the engine idle. They're parked down the street from the blood clinic. Karen looks to Blade, confused -- 
KAREN You let him go -- (off Blade's nod) An hour ago you were ready to kill a man for less, this one didn't even talk. 
BLADE He will. 
Blade points -- 
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD -- 
ON THE STRIPPER 
as she catches sight of Blade and freezes in mid-routine. The stripper pulls off her hood. Long black hair with a streak of white tumbles down her back -- it's Mercury. 
INT. BLACK PEARL, HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Blade and Karen head past the bathrooms. At the end of the hall is a door marked "OFFICE". Just then, the Men's door opens, a DRUNK COLLEGE KID steps out, SEES Blade -- 
KID Hey -- 
Blade plants a hand over the kid's face, shoving him back into the bathroom as he kicks open the office door -- 
INT. THE BLACK PEARL, BACK OFFICE - NIGHT 
Tanaka spins around, startled, tries to throw a punch -- 
Blade traps Tanaka's arm, levering the man up and over. He CRASHES into a shelving unit, taking the whole thing down with him. Karen winces. Blade grabs a handful of Tanaka's hair, yanks his head up -- 
BLADE Where's the entrance?! 
TANAKA I can't -- they'll kill me! 
Blade rips off his glasses and gives Tanaka an eyeful -- his irises pulse and glow. 
BLADE I got news for you, butt-boy. You're already dead. 
TANAKA (terrified) Oh God, shit -- behind the bookcase -- 
Blade drops Tanaka, moves to the bookcase. He searches the wall a moment, then finds a trigger. Hits it -- the bookcase slides aside, revealing a hidden elevator. As Blade moves to put his sunglasses back on -- 
BLADE'S POV (IN THE REFLECTION OF HIS SUNGLASSES) 
We see Tanaka behind him, pulling a handgun out of a desk drawer, swinging it up -- 
Blade unholsters one of his Casulls faster than any gunslinger in history. He FIRES over his own shoulder, BLOWING Tanaka back against the wall. 
Blade puts his sunglasses back on, motions to the elevator, then nods to Karen -- 
BLADE After you. 
INT. THE BLACK PEARL, ELEVATOR - NIGHT 
The elevator descends. Then a tone CHIMES, signaling the end of the ride. The doors hiss open -- 
INT. THE VAMPIRE ARCHIVES, HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Blade and Karen enter the narrow, maze-like "stacks" of the vampire archives, weaving their way through shelves of climate-controlled, digitized records. 
KAREN What is this place? 
BLADE Some kind of archive -- 
KAREN Isn't this all a little high-tech? I thought vampires were more into cobwebs and coffins. 
BLADE You've been watching too much TV. They've got their claws sunk into everything -- finance, real estate, politics. Probably own half of Downtown. 
Blade pulls a CD-ROM from the shelves, its spine labeled in indecipherable vampire glyphs. 
BLADE This must be where they keep their records -- 
He pauses, hearing a DISTANT WHISPER. Blade signals quiet, silently leading Karen through the stacks towards -- 
PEARL'S LAIR 
A vestibule of sorts, leading to a larger bed chamber constructed of rice paper shoji screens and tatami mats. Candles glow within, illuminating a MONSTROUSLY OBESE SHADOW beyond the translucent rice paper walls. 
The shadow speaks in a tremulous, bird-like voice -- the secret tongue. As Blade draws his sword, the massive shadow freezes -- 
PEARL'S VOICE (frightened) Lorca, is that you? 
Blade slides open the nearest shoji screen -- 
INT. PEARL'S BED CHAMBER - NIGHT 
Nothing Karen's seen up until this point could prepare her for the archive's curator -- 
PEARL, 
a nine-hundred-pound androgynous vampire of Asian origin, lounging amidst pillowed rice mats, wearing a communications headset. Think of a cross between Divine and Jabba The Hutt. Skin the complexion of buttermilk, so corpulent he can barely move, so engorged with blood that he's actually sweating it from the pores of his skin. 
Enraged, Pearl LUNGES from his bed. Karen triggers the UV rig, flash- frying him to a blackened crisp. Pearl quivers, his enormous body smoking like a piece of charred meat. 
Blade looks back at Karen with newfound respect. She shrugs. 
KAREN He moved. 
Blade turns back to the vault, setting off the charge. BOOM! Blade kicks the damaged door in, knocking it clear off its hinges -- 
INSIDE THE VAULT, 
ancient papers flutter through the smoky air like wind-borne leaves. Blade and Karen SEE a lucite-encased document -- fragments of an ancient, calligraphied papyrus. 
KAREN What are these? 
QUINN (o.s.) Curiosity killed the cat. 
Blade and Karen spin -- 
-- QUINN, 
Mercury, and a number of other vampires stand at the entrance to the vault. 
QUINN (grins) Hola, amigo. Remember me? 
Karen triggers the UV light, but Mercury ducks under it, ripping it from her hands, crushing it. In a split-second, the she-demon has her claws around Karen's throat. 
As Blade reaches for his rifle, the vampires converge on him like quicksilver. They drag Karen and Blade out -- 
PEARL'S BEDCHAMBER 
The vampires fling Blade against the wall, pinning him. 
QUINN You took my arm, Blade. But that's okay, I'm growing a new one -- 
Quinn lifts up his "arm". A skeletal forearm has grown from the stump. It's got cartilage, sinew, and muscle, but no flesh yet. 
QUINN Nice, huh? Think I'll ever play the piano again? (shrugging) You can slice him, you can dice him, and the man just keeps on coming. 
Blade struggles violently, but Quinn is upon him, pounding his fist into Blade again and again and again -- giving him payback with compounded interest. When it's over, Quinn steps back, winded -- 
Blade's head hangs down. He gasps, wincing, every breath sending a red hot poker to his gut. Quinn grabs a hold of Blade's jaw, forcing his head up. 
QUINN Stay with me, sweetness, I'm not through with you yet. 
Quinn pulls Blade's jacket open, sees the bandoleer of mahogany stakes. He tugs one out, admiring it. 
QUINN Teak. Nice craftsmanship. (to the others) Now here's a man who takes his job just a little too seriously, don't you think? (back to Blade) Which reminds me, Blade, think I owe you one -- 
Quinn stabs the stake into Blade's shoulder. Blade CRIES OUT, tries to pull free. Karen, who's being held by Mercury, averts her gaze. 
QUINN Actually, if you want to get technical, I owe you two. 
As Quinn reaches for another stake, Blade starts to laugh. 
QUINN What's so funny, bright eyes? 
BLADE I'm expecting some company. 
It's then that Quinn notices the micro ear-coil radio receiver in Blade's ear. As we MOVE IN on it, we hear a tiny VOICE squawking from it: 
VOICE (filtered) Get down! 
Blade kicks his feet out, sending Quinn flying backwards. He tears free of the vamps holding him and DIVES forward, knocking Karen to the ground just as -- 
BOOM!!! The wall of Pearl's bedchamber EXPLODES INWARD, knocking Quinn and the rest of his cronies to their feet. 
WHISTLER 
stands in the smoking hole where the wall used to be, brandishing his cane in one hand and an automatic rifle in the other. He balances the rifle against his hip like an over-the-hill gunslinger and OPENS FIRE on the vampires. 
Blade rolls, snatching up a fragment of the parchment which has blown free from the vault. Seconds later, he and Karen are fleeing after Whistler, retreating back through his newly created exit. 
INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT 
The three of them find themselves ankle-deep in a flooded sewer tunnel running parallel to the archives. Whistler pauses, wheezing from overexertion. 
WHISTLER Christ, I'm too old for this. Somebody get me a goddamn wheelchair. 
Blade leans against the tunnel wall, GRUNTING as he yanks the stake from his shoulder. He then pulls out a light-stick, snapping it, illuminating the area in a GREEN GLOW -- disturbing waves of GLITTERING COCKROACHES. 
KAREN What am I injecting you with? 
BLADE (weakly) Serum -- it's a human hemoglobin substitute. 
Karen locates a vein, presses the injector against it -- Blade tenses, grits his teeth, fights to keep his body thrashing as the serum enters his bloodstream. He grips the wall behind him -- actually digs his nails into the metal surface -- the agony he's going through is excruciating, like nothing we could imagine. 
When it's over, he slumps forward, spent, vulnerable, flushed with sweat. Karen stares at him -- 
KAREN You're one of them, aren't you? 
Blade turns away from Karen, filled with self-loathing. 
BLADE Not quite. I'm a hybrid. Half-human, half-vampire. 
Off Karen's surprised reaction, we -- 
CUT TO: 
INT. WHISTLER'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT 
The loading elevator CLANGS to a stop. Blade throws the gate open. Karen helps him out. Now that they're safely back, the last of Blade's strength seems to dissipate. 
WHISTLER 
is waiting for them, sitting at a workbench. 
WHISTLER What took you so long? 
BLADE Don't even start, old man. 
Blade throws his sword aside, then moves off into the shadows, disappearing beyond the curtains. Karen looks to Whistler -- 
KAREN Why didn't you tell me the truth about him? 
WHISTLER We weren't sure we could trust you. 
Whistler sighs, removing his glasses. 
WHISTLER Blade's mother was attacked by a vampire while she was pregnant. Ultimately, she died, but her unborn child lived. Unfortunately, he'd undergone certain genetic changes while in the womb -- 
Whistler reaches for a pack of cigarettes, pulls one out. He thumbs a match, fires up. Takes a long drag -- 
WHISTLER I found Blade when he was thirteen. He'd been living on the streets, feeding off the homeless. Apparently the Thirst manifested itself at puberty -- (beat) I took him for one of them at first, almost killed him, too. But then I realized what he was. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. EDGEWOOD TOWERS, PENTHOUSE - NIGHT 
Frost stands at the window, looking out at the glimmering cityscape before him. 
INT. FROST'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT 
Frost turns away from window. Quinn, Mercury, and the other vampires from the Black Pearl stand before him. Quinn cradles his amputated stump with his newly grown arm. 
QUINN He took my fucking hand! Again! 
FROST You seem to be in the habit of losing them fairly often, Quinn. Maybe the amputee lifestyle just suits you. 
The other vampires laugh. Quinn stares them into silence. 
QUINN We need to find him, tonight. 
Frost claps a hand on Quinn's shoulder. 
FROST Down, boy. Blade's not going anywhere. I promise. Right now, though, we've more pressing business -- (off Mercury's look) It's time Dragonetti paid the piper. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WHISTLER'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT 
Whistler studies Karen, exhaling another lungful of smoke. 
WHISTLER Blade's unique, you know. A one in a billion anomaly. He can withstand sunlight, garlic, even silver. But he still has the Thirst. 
KAREN What happens if he doesn't take the serum? 
WHISTLER The Thirst overcomes him, just like the others. It's not something he can control. (sighs) The problem is, time's running out. His body's starting to reject the serum. And so far, all my efforts to find a cure have ended in failure -- 
KAREN No offense, Whistler, but you're not exactly working with state of the art equipment here. You might have missed something. 
FADE IN on Dragonetti, his face covered with a black condemned man's hood -- 
Frost stands before him, grinning like the Cheshire Cat. He's dressed from head to toe in a black motorcycle suit -- boots, gloves, a visored helmet tucked under one arm. Mercury and Quinn are standing nearby, similarly attired. 
We're on a stretch of rocky coastline, tucked away in a secluded cove. Dragonetti has been stripped bare, chained like Prometheus to an ancient standing stone. 
DRAGONETTI (straining) What is this? Where am I?! 
Frost steps forward, pulling Dragonetti's hood off. Dragonetti stares at his surroundings, horrified. 
FROST When was the last time you stopped to appreciate a sunrise, Dragonetti? Three, four hundred years? 
Frost checks his watch, then looks to the ocean. On the horizon, a sliver of gold appears. 
FROST How do you like that? Right on time. 
DRAGONETTI (snarling) The other elders will never let you get away with this! 
Just then, the TWELVE VAMPIRE ELDERS emerge behind Frost, forming a circle around Dragonetti. All wear business suits, gloves, along with high-tech "sun masks" to protect their faces from the light's lethal rays. 
They stare at Dragonetti like a silent jury. His face darkens, anger rising -- but there's a desperation in his eyes now too. He speaks in the secret tongue: 
DRAGONETTI (subtitled) Don't you see, you fools?! He'll betray you too! He's planning on invoking LaMagra himself! 
The vampires just smile and shake their heads. 
FROST The wheel turns, old fang. Guess you just got a little too long in the tooth. 
Dragonetti's cries are cut short as Frost forces the aging vampire's mouth open, ripping out his fangs with his bare hands. Dragonetti GURGLES and SHRIEKS, sounding like a dying animal. 
Frost turns to face the Twelve now, his eyes bright with victory. He pulls on his motorcycle helmet, as do Mercury and Quinn. 
Behind them, Dragonetti struggles furiously against his chains to no avail as the first faint rays of daylight fall upon him, channeled inward by the natural formation of the cove -- 
Dragonetti HOWLS, his skin beginning sizzle and smoke. Then he catches fire like paper beneath a magnifying glass. He thrashes about as his flesh starts to run from his body. 
THE VAMPIRE ELDERS 
watch, impassive, protected by their masks -- 
-- when suddenly, TWELVE FIGURES rise up behind them, clad in bike helmets and black leather, just like Frost. The intruders grip each of the Elders in a strangle hold, ripping their masks off. 
FROST Dragonetti was right. You were fools to trust me. 
Frost flips down the visor of his helmet even as -- 
THE RED SUN 
rises in all its fiery glory. 
One by one, the vampire Elder's heads catch fire, skullflesh sizzling away -- burning down the line of them in successively building intensity until all twelve EXPLODE in a conflagration of BLINDING WHITE LIGHT. 
Frost and his compatriots are blown off their feet by the sheer intensity of the occult blast -- a blast which sends the skeletal bodies of the Elders SLAMMING into the rock wall. 
When it's over, Frost picks himself back up. We SEE that the only thing left of Dragonetti and the others are -- 
THIRTEEN SHADOW SILHOUETTES 
permanently etched onto the rock's surface, just like the bombing victims of Hiroshima. 
INT. WHISTLER'S WORKSHOP - DAY 
Karen stands at a lab table with Whistler, preparing a number of blood sample vials. They are surrounded by host of new medical equipment -- from centrifuges to genetic sequencers and beyond. 
Blade emerges from his room, looks to Karen. As if by silent agreement, last night's words go unacknowledged. He straps on his bandoleer of stakes, secures his scabbard. 
WHISTLER Going somewhere? 
BLADE China Town. I need more serum. (re: new equipment) What's all this? 
KAREN I made a trip to the hospital last night, borrowed some equipment. 
BLADE (sarcastic) For your miracle cure? 
WHISTLER She's been making real progress, Blade. (to Karen) Show him -- 
Karen looks to Blade, who shrugs. She opens a refrigerator, removing a syringe filled with blue fluid. 
KAREN This is sodium citrate. It's an anti-coagulant. We use it to treat blood-clots sometimes. Vampire blood is thinner than humans, though. Watch what happens when I introduce some into a sample -- 
EXT. WHISTLER'S WORKSHOP - DUSK 
CLOSE ON Karen as she moves to the grimy outer windows, watching the sun go down, an unmistakable look of dread creeping over her. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. LANDFILL GHETTO - DUSK 
Windy. Urban desolation. Blade stands on the perimeter of a sprawling cardboard and plywood squatter's ghetto which has sprung up around the city dump. CHILDREN and DOGS forage for salvageable items, while in the distance, dumptrucks grind over the dunes of refuse. 
MOMENTS LATER, 
Blade is winding his way through the maze of makeshift homes and ashcan fires. A CROWD quickly closes in around him, suspicious. A BRUTISH MAN steps forward, challenging him -- 
MAN Extranjero. ¿Quien es? 
BLADE I'm here to see Miracia. Kam sent me. 
The man turns to his fellow squatters, WHISPERING. After a heated debate, a GAUNT WOMAN steps forward, motioning -- 
WOMAN This way. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WHISTLER'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT 
Whistler and Karen sit at a work table. Karen is looking at a blood smear slide through a microscope. 
KAREN All right, let's start with the basics -- why do vampires need to drink blood? 
WHISTLER Their own blood can't sustain hemoglobin. 
KAREN Then vampirism is a genetic defect, just like Hemolytic anemia? 
Whistler nods. 
KAREN So what about gene therapy? 
Whistler looks intrigued. Karen continues. 
KAREN Basically you'd have to re-write the victim's DNA, alter it so that the DNA will produce proteins capable of generating hemoglobin. 
WHISTLER How? 
KAREN With a retrovirus. It's injected into the bone marrow cells, it causes the host's DNA to mutate. They've been using them to treat Sickle-cell anemia. 
Whistler can hardly believe what he's hearing. 
WHISTLER You're serious? You actually think this could work? 
Karen pauses -- we can see in her expression that there's something she's been holding back. 
KAREN On me, yes. On Blade, I'm not so sure -- (gravely) The problem is, Blade didn't contract the vampire virus from a bite like I did. He was born with it. The irony is, I could probably cure every vampire but him. 
WHISTLER Then we're back to square one, aren't we? Sooner or later, the Thirst always wins. 
At that moment, the lights in the workshop flicker, then go out. Karen looks around the room, alarmed. 
KAREN What happened to the power? 
WHISTLER (concerned) I don't know, but the back-up generator should've kicked in. 
A few seconds pass. The back-up generator still hasn't activated. Whistler moves to the window -- 
WHISTLER UV floodlights are down too. 
As Whistler reaches for a flashlight we hear the sound of GLASS SHATTERING coming from the other end of the workshop. Whistler shines the flashlight in that direction. We hear more sounds now -- water draining, glass tinkling. 
Whistler raises a finger to his lips, signaling silence. He edges towards the black-out curtains, Karen falling in behind him. 
INT. WHISTLER'S WORKSHOP - TANK ROOM - NIGHT 
Whistler and Karen enter, cautious -- 
THE TANK 
containing the vampire child has been smashed open. It's empty now, with just the steadily draining blood seeping across the floor in a widening pool -- and a trail of tiny BLOODY FOOTPRINTS leading back out into the main workshop. 
INT. WHISTLER'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT 
BLADE Who is LaMagra? 
MIRACIA The vampire God. This speaks of His return. 
Miracia's fingers search the parchment again. 
MIRACIA "-- there will come a Day Walker." (reading) "His blood will call the Sleeper from beyond the Veil of Tears." 
Blade stares at Miracia, shaken. 
BLADE His blood -- ? 
The old woman nods, reaching for a smoldering cigarette. 
MIRACIA The Day Walker's blood is a disparador -- a trigger, you see? For LaMagra's return. One need only consume it and the spirit of his ancestors will settle upon him. (reading) "And the Sleeper will rise from the shadows anew, cleansing the world in a Tide of Blood." 
BLADE (recalling the phrase) "The Blood Tide". 
MIRACIA (nodding) Yes. The vampire apocalypse. It is said that all who feel its taint will succumb to the Thirst. 
BLADE How do I stop it? 
Miracia shrugs, spreading her hands. 
MIRACIA The Great Wheel turns, my friend. The Dark is rising. How would you fight a shadow? 
Miracia sits back, slumping into her chair. The candles have burnt themselves down to nothing. 
MIRACIA I am tired. Dawn is coming. 
BLADE But I just got here -- 
MIRACIA You've been here longer than you think. 
Blade rises, looking to the horizon. Incredibly, dawn is coming. As he stands there, mystified, the wind picks up, sweeping the parchment fragment out of his hand. He tries to snatch it back, but the fragment is quickly borne away. He watches it disappear into the sky, then turns back -- 
Miracia is gone. Blade glances around him, but she's nowhere to be found. 
CAMERA PULLS BACK, 
isolating Blade amidst the ghostly squalor. From our vantage point, he looks like any other homeless phantom. 
INT. WHISTLER'S WORKSHOP - DAWN 
Blade steps out from the elevator into the workshop -- 
The place has been trashed. It looks like a tornado touched down in his absence. Blade pulls out one of his .454s, cautious -- 
BLADE WHISTLER?! 
-- and then he stops dead in his tracks. 
WHISTLER 
has been strung up by his arms against the far wall, tortured and left for dead. In response to Blade's voice, a MOAN escapes the dying man's lips. 
Blade rushes to the wall, cutting Whistler down with his sword, gently lowering him to the floor. As he cradles the old man in his arms, Blade sees the primary wound -- two ragged puncture marks along Whistler's throat. 
BLADE Jesus, Whistler, what did they do to you? 
Whistler opens his eyes, struggling to speak -- 
WHISTLER Frost took her -- 
Whistler spasms and coughs, wincing from the pain. 
BLADE Don't try to talk -- 
WHISTLER Listen. You have to -- finish me off. You don't want me coming back. 
BLADE No, we can treat the wounds -- 
But Whistler is shaking his hand. 
WHISTLER Too far gone, you know that. 
Blade's at a complete loss. 
BLADE Whistler, I can't. 
KAREN There's no need for any of this. Your condition can be treated. Whistler and I were working on a cure when -- 
FROST What makes you think we want to be cured? Blood is only part of the equation. The hunt, the killing, that's what the Thirst is really about. 
KAREN But you use blood banks -- 
FROST Only as a last resort. Preserved blood is inferior. There's no flavor left to it, no life. (rising from his seat) Fortunately, I've found a way around that particular obstacle. 
Frost moves to the end of the room. He pushes a button. With a HUM the wall slides open, revealing something Karen wishes she'd never seen -- living blood banks. 
THREE SEDATED HUMANS 
have been hooked up to IV feeds which replenish various nutrients as their blood is drained from them. Shunts have been implanted in their forearms which serve as taps. 
FROST Under these conditions I can keep a donor alive for years, producing anywhere from fifty to a hundred pints of blood. (admiring his charges) Of course, this is just a pilot program, really. Once the Tide comes, we'll need to expand production. So many more mouths to feed -- 
Karen turns away, overwhelmed by revulsion. 
KAREN You're a monster. 
FROST Why? Because we live at another species' expense? Your people farm cattle and veal, don't they? Fattening them up with steroids? It's called evolution, Doctor. Survival of the fittest. 
Frost stares at Karen with an intense, uncompromising gaze. 
FROST I have a wake-up call for the human race. You're no longer at the top of the food chain. 
EXT. SKYSCRAPER ROOFTOP - DAY 
BLADE'S POV 
A telephoto view of Frost's penthouse. The windows are polarized, blocking out the sun's harsh rays. 
Blade lowers a pair of binoculars. He's standing on the roof of a building across the street. He hefts an air-launcher rifle up into firing position -- 
BANG! An iron spike trailing a steel cable rockets through the air between the two buildings, sinking into the concrete facade of Frost's penthouse. Blade secures his end of the rope. He slips a pulley over the rope, grabs hold of two handles, and leaps off the roof ledge! 
WHOOSH! Blade slides towards Frost's penthouse, a good twenty stories above street level. A second before he reaches the windows, Blade lets go. Momentum sends him CRASHING through in a shower of glass. 
INT. FROST'S PENTHOUSE - DAY 
An ALARM is ringing. Sunlight streams in through the broken window. TWO VAMPIRE GUARDS who have been caught in the sudden swath of light are burning up before our eyes. Blade climbs to his feet -- 
A THIRD VAMPIRE 
leaps at him. Blade spins, flipping the vampire over his shoulder, sending him straight through one of the other windows -- 
EXT. FROST'S PENTHOUSE - DAY 
The vampire tumbles earthward, SCREAMING as the sun's rays ignite his body, falling like a human comet. 
INT. FROST'S PENTHOUSE - DAY 
Blade unsheathes his sword and heads out into the hall -- 
INT. FROST'S PENTHOUSE, HALLWAY - DAY 
To Blade's right is the inner chamber with the "waterfall" walls. As ANOTHER VAMPIRE approaches, Blade readies his sword -- 
VAMPIRE You think I'm afraid of that toothpick of yours? 
BLADE You should be. I've made some improvements. 
And with that, Blade thrusts his blackened sword forward, right through the vampire's chest. 
The creature SHRIEKS and atomizes -FWOOSH!- flying apart in a fine- beaded spray of blood mist. 
Up ahead are a set of steel doors with a time-lock mechanism. Blade draws a Casull, BLASTS away at the lock, then shoulders the doors open -- 
INT. FROST'S SLEEPING CHAMBER - DAY 
We are in a windowless, vault-like room dominated by a series of high-tech STAINLESS STEEL SARCOPHAGI. Think of a hyperbaric coffin, each unit possessing a small face-plate window through which the sleeping subject can be viewed. 
Blade unsheathes his sword. He grabs the lid of the first sarcophagus, HEAVING upward. With a PNEUMATIC HISS, the lid rises, belching out a cloud of condensation mist. 
As the mist clears, revealing the occupant within, Blade raises his sword, ready to plunge it downward -- only it's not Deacon Frost who rests beneath him, it's -- 
VANESSA, 
Blade's mother!!! Although some thirty years have passed since the events of our prologue, Vanessa looks exactly the same -- vibrant, beautiful, full of life. Her eyes open. 
BLADE What are you talking about? 
Karen forces herself to meet his gaze. 
KAREN Your condition's congenital, the genetic mutations occurred in utero. All the other victims contracted vampirism after birth. 
Blade stares at Karen, disbelieving. Who could imagine a more horrifying irony? She's crying now. She can't help it. 
KAREN I can't cure you, Blade. I can cure myself, but I can't cure you. (beat) I'm so sorry. 
Blade's head sinks, the last vestiges of hope draining out of him. 
And then, as if the final stake were being pounded in, the truck lurches to a stop. We hear the ENGINE being killed, then FOOTSTEPS approaching, and then a series of BOLTS BEING SHIFTED as -- 
-- the back of the truck is thrown open. Frost stands there, grinning, flanked by Mercury, Quinn, Vanessa, and a half-dozen other VAMPIRE ASSOCIATES. 
FROST Welcome home, children. 
EXT. THE BANK OF EREBUS - NIGHT 
Blade and Karen are dragged from the back of the truck, which is revealed now to be an armored car. 
THE BANK OF EREBUS 
rises up before them. A towering beaux-arts edifice situated in the heart of the city's high-priced financial district -- one of the many institutions owned and operated by the vampire enclave. 
Frost starts up the marble steps towards a grand, triple-arched entrance flanked by Corinthian columns. Karen and Blade are dragged along after him. 
INT. BANK OF EREBUS - ATRIUM - NIGHT 
Frost leads his vampires into a high-ceilinged atrium, moving towards a bank of elevators -- one of the doors of which is outfitted with a high-tech hand-key ID system. 
Frost places his palm on the ID screen. The screen GLOWS GREEN, acknowledging his identity. In response, the doors HISS open. 
INT. SECURITY ELEVATOR - NIGHT 
Blade and Karen are pulled inside the elevator. The control panel buttons have vampire glyphs, rather than numbers. Frost presses the bottom one. The doors close with a WHOOSH and the car descends -- down, down, down. 
Frost glances over at Karen, smiling amiably. 
FROST On its surface, this building houses one of the city's oldest financial institutions -- and for over two-hundred years its served our corporate needs. Look beneath the surface, however, and you'll discover another truth entirely -- 
The elevator CHIMES, having arrived at its destination. The doors HISS open, revealing 
INT. THE TEMPLE OF NIGHT 
A vast, barrel-vaulted chamber lined with recessed tombs stretches out before us -- an underground cathedral of sorts, wrought from alabaster and marble. Restrained. Elegant. Replete with dark splendor. 
FROST As above, so below. 
Torches burn in wall sconces, casting everything in a warm, amber glow. Frost takes in the beauty of the place. 
FROST Welcome to our hall of ancients, Doctor. We call it the Temple of Night. 
Blade and Karen are led to the middle of the room, where a stone altar rises up from a dais. Blade is roughly thrown to the ground. He kneels there, eyes cast downward. Broken. His system being assaulted by the devastating effects of the Thirst. 
Quinn and Mercury pick their way through Blade's discarded gear. Quinn picks up the punching dagger, admiring it. 
Frost turns to Mercury, who's been holding Blade's scabbarded sword. 
FROST Let's see this sword of his. 
Mercury draws the sword, handing it to Frost. He sights down the length of it, testing its weight. With a flick of his wrist, he lashes out, slashing Blade's cheek open. 
FROST Still quite sharp, I see. 
Blade feebly struggles to rise. Frost clubs him on the back of the neck with the sword pommel. Blade crumples. Karen tries to pull free, but Quinn holds her tight. 
KAREN Blade -- 
FROST You're wasting your breath, woman. He can't hear you now. It's the Thirst, you see? It already has him in its grip. 
Frost reaches down, dragging Blade's head up by his hair. Karen watches on as Frost continues to taunt him. 
FROST How long has it been since you had your serum? Twelve hours? More? You must be quite thirsty by now. 
He crouches down so he's eye to eye with Blade. 
FROST What does it feel like? Is your blood on fire? Are you burning up inside? Give in to the Thirst, Blade. Embrace your true nature. 
Frost leads Mercury, Quinn, and the others from the sanctuary. 
Blade struggles futilely against his bonds, crying out in frustration, his body eventually sagging from exhaustion. 
VANESSA (O.S.) There's no use fighting us, Jason. 
Blade looks up, focusing now on -- 
VANESSA, 
who has remained behind. Blade stares at her. As terrible as his physical torment is, his mother's betrayal is infinitely worse. 
BLADE How could you be a part of this? 
VANESSA These are my people now. I'm one of them. 
BLADE You don't have to be. 
VANESSA You don't understand. I've killed, I've hunted, and I've enjoyed it. 
She draws closer, caressing her son's face. There's just a hint of creepy eroticism in her action, a dash of incest. 
VANESSA I wish you could see the world as I do. Deacon opened my eyes. There's no turning back from that. 
BLADE I don't believe that. 
VANESSA You will. Time is on our side. Sooner or later, the Thirst always wins. 
Vanessa turns away now. Blade cries after her -- 
BLADE Mother! 
Vanessa pauses, looking back, smiling cruelly. 
VANESSA Your mother died the night you were born. 
And with that, she's gone, melting into the shadows. 
CUT TO: 
INT. THE BONE PIT - NIGHT 
Karen rises, wary, taking in her shadowed surroundings. 
HEAPS OF HUMAN BONES 
are piled against the pit walls -- skulls, rib-cages, femurs, tibias -- all picked clean of flesh. Some of the skulls have large, canine- like fangs -- the remnants, no doubt, of long-deceased vampires. 
Suddenly we hear a WHISPER of sorts, the soft CLINKING of bone fragments grinding together -- 
Karen spins, trying to place the source of the sound. Then she hears the SOUND again. Behind her now, closer. 
REVENANT (O.S.) Karennnnn -- 
Karen looks up with a growing sense of dread. 
A FACE 
emerges from the darkness. Pallid, cadaverous, shedding its desiccated flesh. Lidless eyes like black marbles slick with Vaseline. A mouth like a raw wound. 
REVENANT Karreennnnnn. I never thought I'd see you againnnnn. 
Karen backs away, realizing who she's standing before. 
KAREN Curtis?! 
What used to be Curtis SNARLS, knocking Karen back into the drift- pile of bones. It pins her to the ground, kneeling above her, gurgling through its gutted trachea. 
CURTIS REVENANT Tell, me, Karennn -- ever have second thoughts -- about us? 
Karen SCREAMS, trying to force the revenant away from her, but it lunges closer, lolling its distended tongue over her mouth in a pathetic approximation of a French kiss. 
She fumbles behind her, choking, grabbing hold of a human femur, blindly swinging it upward -- 
CRACK! The blow shatters the Curtis-thing's jaw. It rears back, falling to the side. 
Karen crawls out from under its weight, swinging the femur again and again -- 
CRACK! CRACK! CRACK! Karen pummels the howling horror, driving it back until the femur actually splinters in half. The creature's head hangs at an awkward angle now, its neck broken -- but still it advances, dragging itself back up. 
Vanessa hands Frost the chalice containing Blade's blood. He lifts it up for all to see. The vampires begin to chant en masse, some long- forgotten invocation in the vampire tongue. 
FROST (grinning, to himself) "And what rough beast, its hour come round at last, slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?" 
Frost lifts the chalice to his lips and begins to drink. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ANTECHAMBER - NIGHT 
Blade tries to sit up, gripping Karen's wrist -- 
BLADE Get out of here -- 
KAREN I'm not leaving without you. 
BLADE You don't understand. The Thirst -- 
He clutches his stomach, experiencing phenomenal pain. 
BLADE (gasping) -- tearing me -- apart. 
KAREN I know. Take some of my blood. 
BLADE No -- 
KAREN It's the only way. You know that. We'll never get out of here alive if you don't. 
Blade suppresses a shudder. Simply keeping himself from attacking her takes every ounce of his resolve. 
BLADE I can't -- I won't be able to stop -- 
KAREN Yes you will. The human side of you is stronger. I know it is. 
Karen matches Blade's gaze, steeling herself. The truth is, she's terrified. 
Blade stares back at her. At this moment, he wants what Karen is offering more than anything he's ever desired. And so he rises -- 
CUT TO: 
INT. TEMPLE OF NIGHT - SANCTUARY - NIGHT 
Frost continues drinking down the blood, when suddenly, a force seizes his body. He throws his head back, eyes rolling to white, flinging the chalice aside. 
And as the vampire incantation reaches a fevered pitch, we SEE the stone tomb tablets off the vampire ancestors beginning to judder -- as if some force within were trying to break free -- 
CUT TO: 
INT. ANTECHAMBER - NIGHT 
Karen turns her head to the side, baring her neck, offering herself to Blade. Blade opens his mouth. His canines elongate. He lowers his head -- 
-- and starts to feed. Karen involuntarily stiffens as Blade's teeth puncture her skin and we -- 
CUT TO: 
INT. TEMPLE SANCTUARY - NIGHT 
Frost shakes, possessed by an unseen force. A wind picks up from nowhere, swirling about the chamber, accompanied by a strange HUMMING. 
Suddenly, one of the tombs BURSTS OPEN. A WRAITH-LIKE SPIRIT rushes outward in a fountain of light, penetrating Frost's body. 
Then ANOTHER TOMB SPLITS APART. Then ANOTHER, and ANOTHER -- until a torrent of SPIRIT-WRAITHS are surging into Frost, buffeting him about like a scarecrow in a cyclone. 
Mercury, Vanessa, and the other vampires back away, apprehensive, humbled by what they're witnessing. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ANTECHAMBER - NIGHT 
Blade moans, sinking his teeth deeper. Karen's head rolls back. Her eyes open -- glassy, unseeing -- as a wave of ecstasy overtakes her. 
She shudders, her breath quickening, falling into a synchronous rhythm with Blade's. Her fingers dig deep into his back, clawing downward, tearing into him -- 
She's not Karen anymore -- she's a red blood cell, an erythrocyte, spinning in a river of plasma, roaring up Blade's femoral artery, racing towards the pumping chambers of his heart which beats like the deafening breath of God, which blots all other sounds out of existence and we're -- 
CUTTING BACK AND FORTH NOW 
between Frost's transformation and Blade's, each of them growing stronger by the second, caught in an ever-increasing feedback loop of expanding energy until -- 
Meanwhile, Blade traps Mercury's other hand, disarming her, flipping her over his shoulder. He hefts his Casull, BLASTING her into eternity -- 
A bloodbath ensues. Blade moves like speed-personified, FIRING off one, two, THREE HEADSHOTS with brain-numbing accuracy, cutting down the vampires where they stand. 
It's an orgy of gunpowder smoke and showering bodily fluids and -CLICK-CA-CHING-CLICK!- Blade and Karen have spent their bullets and -- 
FROST (O.S.) Enough!!! 
Blade turns to face -- 
FROST, 
who's advancing, clutching Blade's own sword in his hand. He thrusts the sword forward -- 
Blade presses the grip-trigger on his punching dagger -CHING!- the two side blades spread out. We hear the RASP and CLANG of metal on metal as Blade manages to trap the sword-point between two of the dagger blades -- 
For a moment, both men are eye to eye, their weapons locked together, then, Frost forces Blade backwards -- 
What happens next is the most blindingly-fast sword fight ever exposed to celluloid. Both men, fueled by super-human speed, lunge and spin across the cavern floor in a blurred ballet of lethal moves. 
Frost lands a powerful blow on Blade's shoulder, the sword-edge biting deep into the flesh. Blade SCREAMS. Frost withdraws the sword for another strike -- 
-- until Blade sees an opening and takes it, slicing Frost's left arm off at the shoulder -- 
The severed arm releases Blade's sword, but the arm doesn't fall! To Frost and Blade's mutual surprise the arm floats in mid-air, bleeding red, quivering like zero-G liquid, then SLURPING back to Frost's arm- stump to re-attach itself! 
Undaunted, Blade slices the punching dagger into Frost's mid-section, meeting only liquid-like resistance. The moment Blade withdraws his dagger, Frost's flesh seals itself up again. 
Blade hesitates now, uncertain -- and Frost laughs, understanding what has happened. 
FROST You're too late, Blade. I'm already changing. Don't you see? The Sleeper has awakened. I'm not just Frost anymore. I'm becoming a god now, blood incarnate. 
Even as Frost utters the words, his body begins to ripple and morph, bleeding red, taking on the characteristics of liquid. He doesn't walk so much now as flow. He's become a three-dimensional creature of animated blood! A blood demon. 
ON KAREN, 
as she watches Frost's transformation, wide-eyed. She SEES Blade's discarded sword, reaches for it -- suddenly, a SHADOW moves on the periphery of her vision -- 
VANESSA 
rushes at Karen in a near-blur. The SNARLING hellion is upon Karen in an eye-blink, SLAMMING her down against the temple floor, pinning her. 
VANESSA Did you think I'd forgotten you, you little whore? 
BACK TO FROST, 
who towers above Blade, swaying back and forth in his new, liquid- like form. 
FROST You can't hurt me anymore. 
WHOOSH! Frost rises upwards on a spiraling column of blood, HOWLING WITH LAUGHTER, then just as suddenly -- 
-- splashes back to earth, spreading out in a widening pool. In the blink of an eye, he streams through Blade's feet, re-solidifying behind Blade. Blade spins, swings his dagger -- 
Once again, Frost morphs into blood-form. He races around Blade in a series of spouting arcs, turning from blood-form to solid and back again in a series of split-second transformations. 
Blade whirls, striking with his dagger and missing every time -- 
WHOOSH! Frost suddenly dissipates, SPLASHING away into a million zero-G blood bubbles, vanishing. Blade spins, unnerved, trying to pin-point his foe's next manifestation. 
BLADE Where are you?! 
Frost's voice answers from all directions. 
FROST Everywhere. 
A DROPLET OF BLOOD 
spatters the floor at Blade's feet. Blade looks up -- 
A SHOWER OF BLOOD 
rains from above, coalescing into Frost as he sweeps down on Blade like a giant bird of prey, crushing him against the temple floor. 
FROST You want my blood so much?! Take it! 
Frost's arms elongate and liquefy, flowing into two snake-like spouts of blood -- the rest of Frost remains solid. The blood-spouts twist around Blade's neck, melding together, completely encasing Blade's head in a bubble of blood. 
Blade claws at the blood-bubble as if it were a solid object that he could dislodge, but his fingers just pass through it! 
