Blood Simple 
"BLOOD SIMPLE" 
By 
Joel Coen and Ethan Coen 
LANDSCAPES 
An opening voice-over plays against dissolving Texas landscapes--broad, bare, and lifeless. 
VOICE-OVER The world is full of complainers. But the fact is, nothing comes with a guarantee. I don't care if you're the Pope of Rome, President of the United States, or even Man of the Year--something can always go wrong. And go ahead, complain, tell your problems to your neighbor, ask for help--watch him fly. Now in Russia, they got it mapped out so that everyone pulls for everyone else-- that's the theory, anyway. But what I know about is Texas... 
CUT TO 
ROAD  NIGHT 
We are rushing down a rain-swept country road, listening to the rhythmic swish of tires on wet asphalt. 
VOICE-OVER And down here... you're on your own. 
INT. CAR NIGHT 
We are looking at the backs of two people in the front seat-- a man, driving, and a woman next to him. 
Their conversation will be punctuated by the occasional glare of oncoming headlights and the roar of the car rushing by. 
The windshield wipers wave a soporific beat. The conversation is halting, awkward. 
WOMAN ...He gave me a little pearl-handled .38 for out first anniversary. 
MAN Uh-huh. 
WOMAN ...Figured I'd better leave before I used it on him. I don't know how you can stand him. 
MAN Well, I'm only an employee, I ain't married to him. 
WOMAN Yeah... 
Pause, as an oncoming car passes. Finally: 
WOMAN ...I don't know. Sometimes I think there's something wrong with him. Like maybe he's sick? Mentally?... Or is it maybe me, do you think? 
MAN Listen, I ain't a marriage counselor. I don't know what goes on, I don't wanna know... But I like you. I always liked you... 
Another car passes. 
MAN ...What're you gonna do in Houston? 
WOMAN I'll figure something out... How come you offered to drive me in this mess? 
MAN I told you. I like you. 
WOMAN See, I never knew that. 
MAN Well now you do. 
WOMAN ...Hell. 
Another pause. Another car. 
Suddenly: 
WOMAN Stop the car, Ray! 
CLOSE SHOT BRAKE 
Stamped on. 
EXT. CAR 
Low three-quarters on the car as it squeals to a halt. 
A car that has been following screeches to a halt just behind it. 
Both cars sit. 
Rain patters. 
INT. FIRST CAR 
Close on the man, from behind. 
He looks at the woman. 
MARTY Listen, I got tickets for the Oilers and the Rams next week in the Astrodome. Ever sat on the fifty yard line? 
DEBRA I don't follow baseball. 
Marty laughs. 
MARTY You won't have to. I'll explain what a palate is. 
DEBRA You won't have to. I just wanted to see if you knew. 
Marty smiles bleakly. Debra drains her glass as Meurice returns. He sets another Cognac in front of Debra, and a glass of milk in front of Marty. 
MARTY What's this? 
MEURICE You said the usual-- 
MARTY Red Label. 
MEURICE (picking up the milk) Right. Sorry. 
MARTY Pour that back. 
MEURICE What. 
MARTY Don't throw that out. 
MEURICE Right. 
He wanders on down the bar; Marty's attention returns to the woman. 
MARTY So how long have you know Meurice? 
DEBRA About ten years. 
Marty's attention is caught by something down the bar. He half-rises from his stool. 
MARTY What--Waitaminute--What... 
HIS POV 
Meurice is pouring the milk down the sink. He looks innocently up. 
MEURICE What. 
BACK TO MARTY 
Angry but not knowing what to say. He glances around the bar, sinks slowly back onto his stool. 
MARTY Deuce in the corner needs help. 
MEURICE Right. 
Marty sits staring across the bar for a moment, nods a couple of times at nothing in particular, then looks back at the woman. 
MARTY ...So what're you doing tonight? 
DEBRA Going out with Meurice. 
Marty tosses a beer nut into his mouth. 
MARTY Tell him you have a headache. 
Debra gives him a level stare. 
DEBRA It'll pass. 
MARTY We don't seem to be communicating-- 
DEBRA You want to hustle me. I don't want to be hustled. It's as simple as that. Now that I've communicated, why don't you leave? 
MARTY I own the place. 
DEBRA Christ, I'm getting bored. 
MARTY I'm not surprised, the company you've been keeping the last ten years. 
They both fall silent as Meurice enters frame. He takes a bottle from the bar and pours himself a drink. 
MARTY What's this? 
MEURICE What. 
MARTY (pointing at Meurice's drink) This. 
MEURICE Jack Daniels. Don't worry, I'm paying for it. 
MARTY'S FRONT FOYER 
We are looking across a dark, high-ceilinged foyer toward the front door. Ray leans against the doorjamb, in silhouette in the open doorway. He is facing a curved staircase that descends into the foyer. Abby appears at the second-floor landing and starts down the stairs. 
RAY Why d'you wanna leave all this? 
ABBY You kidding? I don't wanna leave all this, I just wanna leave Marty... 
As she reaches the bottom of the stairs: 
ABBY ...Drive me to a motel? 
RAY You can stay at my place, I'll drop you there. 
ABBY Where... where you going? 
RAY See a guy. 
ABBY (nervously) Don't go to the bar, Ray. I know him, that ain't a good idea. 
RAY I just gotta see a guy. 
MARTY'S BAR 
The crowd has thinned out. Meurice and Debra are in the foreground. 
Ray enters from the street and makes his way over to them. 
MEURICE Howdy stranger. 
RAY Meurice. Sorry I didn't show last night. 
MEURICE Wasn't too busy. You missed a good one, though. This white guy walks in about one o'clock, asks if we have a discount for alcoholics... I tell him to get lost, but Marty's sitting here listening and I can tell he's thinking that maybe it ain't such a bad idea... 
He pours Debra another drink and starts to set one up for Ray. 
MEURICE ...Ray, this is Debra. She's a geologist. That's the theory of rocks. 
Ray nods at Debra. 
RAY Is Marty here? 
MEURICE Not here tonight. Wasn't here last night. He's especially not back in his office. 
RAY (leaving) Thanks Meurice. 
MEURICE For what? 
EXT. BACK OF MARTY'S BAR 
Marty is sitting on the stoop that descends from his back office to a graveled back parking lot; he is framed in the open doorway of his brightly lit office. He stares fixedly at something offscreen. 
MARTY'S POV 
In the middle distance a huge incinerator operates full blast. Orange flames lick out the sides; white smoke billows out the top. Two figures in silhouette are chucking garbage in through a large gate. 
BACK TO MARTY 
Behind him, in the office, we see the door from the bar open, and Ray entering. 
RAY Marty? 
Marty looks over his shoulder, then back toward the furnace. Ray descends the stoop and stands in front of him. 
RAY ...Well...? What? 
Marty stares past Ray across the parking lot. 
MARTY What "what"? 
RAY Am I fired? You wanna hit me? What? 
MARTY I don't particularly want to talk to you. 
RAY Well... if you're not gonna fire me I might as well quit. 
MARTY Fine. Suit yourself. (still staring fixedly at the furnace) ...Having a good time? 
Ray tenses. There is a pause. 
RAY ...I don't like this kind of talk. 
Marty still stares at the furnace. 
MARTY Then what'd you come here for? 
MARTY'S OFFICE 
Marty listens. He says nothing, still tilted back in his chair, staring at the ceiling. 
RAY'S LIVING ROOM 
Abby listens. She shifts the phone to her other ear, listening hard to the sound of the fan. There is another long pause. 
ABBY ...Marty? 
The phone goes dead just as we hear the front door opening. Abby looks up as she cradles the phone. 
Ray is standing in the doorway. 
RAY Who was it? 
ABBY What? 
RAY On the phone. Was it for you? 
ABBY I don't know, he didn't say anything. 
RAY Uh-huh. So how do you know it was a he? 
ABBY (smiling) You got a girl--am I screwing something up by being here? 
Ray leans against the door and folds his arms, watching Abby. 
RAY No, am I? 
Abby looks at him, puzzled. After an uncomfortable pause: 
ABBY ...I can find a place tomorrow, then I'll be outta your hair. 
RAY If that's what you want to do, then you oughta do it. You, uh... you want the bed or the couch? 
Abby shifts uneasily, looking at Ray. 
ABBY Well... the couch would be all right... 
RAY You can sleep on the bed if you want. 
ABBY Well... I'm not gonna put you out of your bed... 
RAY You wouldn't be putting me out. 
ABBY ...Well, I'd be okay in here-- 
Ray walks toward the bedroom. 
RAY Okay. 
MARTY'S OFFICE  LATER 
Still tilted back in his chair, Marty stares glumly at the ceiling. The bar itself is completely still except the rhythmic whir of the fan. 
CLOSE SHOT  A CEILING FAN 
Turning slowly. We tilt down from the fan to frame Abby, lying under a sheet on Ray's couch, staring up at the fan in the darkened living room. The room is still. We hear only the whir of the fan and the distant sound of crickets. Abby turns her head, looking offscreen. 
HER POV 
A ray of light slants up the hallway from the direction of the bedroom. The light is snapped off, leaving the hallway in darkness. We hear a faint cough and the creaking of bedsprings. 
RAY'S BEDROOM 
Ray lies in bed, staring at the ceiling. 
RAY'S LIVING ROOM / HALLWAY 
LONG SHOT  THE LIVING ROOM  FROM THE HALLWAY 
Abby sits up. She stands and walks across the moonlit room toward the hallway. We pull her back down the hall toward the bedroom. She pauses in the bedroom doorway and looks down toward the bed. 
ABBY'S POV 
Ray in bed, his eyes closed. 
BACK TO ABBY 
We pull her as she enters the room, then tilt down with her as she hesitantly sits on the edge of the bed. 
ABBY'S POV 
Close shot, Ray asleep. 
BACK TO MARTY 
Backing toward his car, a Cadillac parked at curbside, still looking at Ray. He turns to get into the car. 
The German shepherd lopes across the lawn and takes a clean leap into the car through the open window on the passenger side. 
Marty turns the ignition. The engine coughs and dies. He tries again; it starts. 
The car roars up the street. 
RAY 
Watching the car. He looks at Abby. 
ABBY 
Still panting. Up the street we can hear Marty's car alternately racing and stopping, shifting in and out of gear. His engine rumble starts to grow louder again. 
RAY Like to have seen his face when he found the dead end. 
In the background we see Marty's car roar by in the opposite direction. 
MOUNT BONNEL  EVENING 
LATERAL TRACK 
Moving past a row of cars parked on an overlook near the top of the mountain. Below we can see the lights of the city of Austin. The lot is littered with beer cans. We hear the sound of rock music coming from various car radios. Several teenagers lean against cars drinking beer; inside the cars we can see the vague forms of others. 
TEENAGER Hey mister, how'd you break your pussyfinger? 
His friends laugh. 
TRACK PULLING MARTY 
Ignoring the laughter as he walks past the cars, apparently looking for someone. His right index finger is taped up in an aluminum splint. 
MARTY'S POV 
At the end of a row of cars we see a green Volkswagon bug. Leaning against the hood is Visser, still dressed in his rumpled yellow suit. He is smoking a cigarette, talking to a sixteen-year-old girl in shorts and a tube top. When he notices Marty: 
VISSER (to the girl) Sorry sweetheart, my date is here... 
The girl drifts off. Marty enters frame and Visser turns to him. 
VISSER ...She saw me rolling a cigarette and thought it was marijuana. (he laughs) I guess she thought I was a swinger. 
Visser open the back door of the car. Marty ignores the invitation, walks around to the front on the passenger side and gets in. 
INT. VISSER'S CAR 
As Visser gets into the driver's seat. A small topless doll is suspended from the rearview mirror. Visser gives it a tap. As it swings back and forth two small lights, one behind each breast, blink on and off. 
VISSER Idnat wild? 
Both men sit watching the doll intently. 
Finally Marty reaches up and stops its swinging with the rounded end of his splint. Visser eyes the splint. 
VISSER (genially) Stick your finger up the wrong person's ass? 
Marty is silent, but Visser is in a good mood. 
VISSER You know a friend of mine broke his hand a while back. Put in a cast. Very next day he takes a fall, protects his bad hand, falls on his good one, breaks that too. So now he's got two busted flippers and I say to him "Creighton, I hope your wife loves you. 'Cause for the next five weeks you cannot wipe your own goddamn ass..." 
Overcome by laughter. Finally: 
VISSER ...That's the test, ain't it? Test of true love-- 
MARTY Got a job for you. 
VISSER (settling down) ...Well, if the pay's right and it's legal I'll do it. 
MARTY It's not strictly legal. 
Visser shrugs, lights up another cigarette with his fraternally inscribed lighter and drops the lighter onto the dashboard. 
VISSER If the pay's right I'll do it. 
MARTY It's, uh... it's in reference to that gentleman and my wife. The more I think about it the more irritated I get. 
VISSER Yeah? Well how irritated are you? 
Marty doesn't answer. Finally Visser laughs. 
VISSER ...Gee, I'm sorry to hear that. Can you tell me what you want me to do or is it a secret? 
RAY (sleepily) ...I don't know if you can fire a psychiatrist, exactly. 
ABBY Well, I didn't see him anymore, I'll tell you that much. 
HIGH ANGLE  RAY 
His eyes half-closed. 
RAY Uh-huh. 
ABBY I said, Marty, how come you're anal and I gotta go to the psychiatrist? 
RAY What'd he say? 
SIDE ANGLE  ABBY 
Framed against the window. 
ABBY Nothing. He's like you, he doesn't say much. 
RAY (murmuring) Thanks. 
ABBY Except when he doesn't say things they're usually nasty. 
RAY ...Mm-hmm. 
ABBY When you don't they're usually nice. 
RAY ...You ever get tired? 
ABBY Huh? Oh, yeah, I guess. Mm-hmm. 
Ray's hand rises into frame and coaxes Abby back down onto the bed, revealing, through the window, a green Volkswagon now parked at curbside on the lamplit street. 
We hear the rustle of sheets. 
As we hold on the window, we begin to hear the faint, distant sound of metal scraping against metal. 
HALLWAY / LIVING ROOM 
We track down the dark hallway into the living room. As the camera advances the sound of the scraping becomes louder. 
We are moving across the living room up to the front door of the bungalow. The scraping is louder still as we finally frame on a close shot of the doorknob, which is jiggling ever so slightly. 
We hear a click as the lock finally releases. 
The door swings slowly open, revealing a man's hand on the outside doorknob. We follow the hand as the man advances slowly and quietly across the living room. 
Abby's purse comes into frame, sitting on a bureau; next to it is a large tote bag. The hand rummages through the tote bag briefly, then the purse. The man withdraws Abby's pearl- handled revolver. He breaks it open. 
LOW-ANGLE CLOSE SHOT  THE MAN'S FACE 
It is Visser. As we hear a click offscreen, his face glows a dim orange. 
BACK TO HIS HANDS 
His right holds the revolver, cylinder open, inside the purse. His left holds his cigarette lighter as he inspects the chamber. Three of the holes glint silver, the other three are black--empty. 
We hear the faint creaking of bedsprings. 
WIDE SHOT  LIVING ROOM 
Visser cocks his head, listening, and looks down the hallway. He takes a couple of quiet steps across the living room and, as the camera tracks up to him, opens the back door of the bungalow. 
We follow him outside onto the lawn. 
EXT. RAY'S BUNGALOW 
We track behind him as he rounds the corner of the house and approaches the open window to Ray's bedroom. He slows, moves more cautiously, then sinks to his knees under the window. As he reaches into his breast pocket the camera continues tracking up to and over him, finally framing his POV through the window. 
On the bed inside we can dimly see Abby and Ray, asleep. 
We have been hearing a faint rumble, becoming louder and louder as if approaching from a distance. Just as the rumble becomes deafening a sudden bright flash of light illuminates the room, seeming to polarize the image of Abby and Ray in bed, and we: 
CUT TO 
EXT. PHONE BOOTH DAY 
A huge truck roars by on the street behind Visser, and with it the deafening rumble recedes. It is a painfully bright day. Visser stands sweating in the phone booth with the receiver pressed to his ear. We hear the phone ringing at the other end. 
Finally, it is picked up. 
VOICE Hello. 
VISSER Marty? 
VISSER'S POV 
The standing safe behind the desk. 
BACK TO VISSER 
Still looking at the safe. Beads of sweat have popped out on his forehead. He fans himself with his cowboy hat. 
VISSER ...and you did say somethin' about some money. 
We hear a toilet flush offscreen. 
LONG SHOT  MARTY'S OFFICE 
As he reenters the office. 
MARTY Your money, yeah. 
Visser stares dully down at the desktop. 
VISSER Something I got to ask you, Marty. I've been very very careful. Have you been very very careful? 
MARTY Of course. 
VISSER Nobody knows you hired me? 
HIGH ANGLE  CORNER OF THE OFFICE 
Marty is hunched over the open safe, still holding the envelope. Blocking Visser's view of the safe with his body, he slides the picture of Abby's and Ray's corpses from under the envelope into the safe, then withdraws two packets of money. 
MARTY Don't be absurd, I wasn't about to tell anyone... 
He shuts the safe and spins the dial. 
MARTY ...This is an illicit romance--we've got to trust each other to be discreet... 
He walks across the room and throws the money and the envelope down on the desk. 
MARTY ...For richer, for poorer. 
Visser looks from the money down at his hands. They are sweating. 
VISSER Don't say that. Your marriages don't work out so hot... 
He wipes his hands on his pants. 
VISSER ...How did you cover the money? 
Marty sits and props his booted feet up on the desk. 
MARTY It's taken care of. The less you know about it the better. 
He smiles. 
MARTY ...I just made a call about that. It'll look fine. 
VISSER (shaking his head) I must've gone money simple. This kind of murder... 
He nods toward the envelope on the desk. 
VISSER ...it's too damn risky. 
MARTY Then you shouldn't have done it. Can't have it both ways. 
He pushes the money across the desk with his boot. 
MARTY ...Count it if you want. 
VISSER (reaching into his coat) Nah, I trust ya. 
His hand comes out with a gun pointing at Marty and--BAM--he fires, an orange lick of flame spurting from the gun. 
Both men sit frozen. Visser's hand is the only thing that moved. 
CLOSE SHOT  MARTY 
Staring at Visser. 
After the gun blast we hear only the whir of the fan. 
CLOSE SHOT  VISSER 
Staring at Marty. 
MED SHOT  MARTY  OVER VISSER'S SHOULDER 
He stumbles slightly and we hear the sharp blast of a gun and the sound of something metallic skating across the floor. 
Ray, startled, steadies himself against the desk, then studies Marty. 
RAY'S POV 
There is a dark pool of blood under Marty's chair. 
BACK TO RAY 
He looks back up at Marty, then walks behind his chair and throws a wall switch. The room is bathed in light. His eyes still on Marty, Ray crosses behind the desk. 
RAY'S POV  TRACKING SHOT 
The camera moves in a slow arc around the back of Marty's motionless head. 
BACK TO RAY 
Still moving. He looks away from Marty, scans the floor. He gets down on his hands and knees and peers under the safe. 
RAY'S POV 
There is a glinting silver circle in the darkness under the safe. It is the business end of the revolver that Ray half- stumbled over, half-kicked. 
BACK TO RAY 
Still on his hands and knees. He reaches in and we hear a rattle as he gropes under the safe. He withdraws the gun, looks at it. 
THE GUN 
It is Abby's revolver. 
BACK TO RAY 
For a long moment he doesn't move. Then, slowly, he starts to get up. 
WIDER 
The desk, Marty behind it, Ray straightening behind him. Ray looks from the gun to Marty, slowly sets the gun down on the desk. A pause. He begins to hoist Marty from the chair. 
There is noise from the bar, as of someone entering. 
Ray reacts. 
THE DOOR 
Separating the bar and back office. Ray hurries to it. 
MEURICE (O.S.) Marty? 
Footsteps approach the door. 
EXTREME CLOSE SHOT  RAY'S HAND ON THE DOOR BOLT 
He turns it gently. The bolt clicks shut. 
BACK TO RAY 
Meurice's footsteps draw nearer. 
MEURICE (O.S.) Marty, ya home? 
There is a rap at the door; Ray stands frozen. The doorknob rattles. Ray reaches out compulsively to grab it, but stops himself before actually touching it. 
Now Meurice's footsteps can be heard going casually back into the bar. We hold on Ray's rigidly set face. 
MEURICE (O.S.) What day is it today, Angie? 
WOMAN (O.S.) Tuesday. 
MEURICE (O.S.) Tuesday is ladies' night. 
WOMAN (O.S.) What? 
MEURICE (O.S.) Tuesday night is ladies' night. All your drinks are free. 
We hear a record drop on the jukebox and a Motown song blares. 
Ray crosses to Marty's chair and takes off his nylon windbreaker. He stoops down and tries to mop up the pool of blood with his windbreaker. This isn't going to work. 
He rises and walks over to the bathroom, the windbreaker dripping blood. 
MARTY'S OFFICE BATHROOM 
CLOSE SHOT  FAUCET 
RAY'S POV  TRACKING 
Toward the car. Still no sign of movement. 
BACK TO RAY 
He slows as he draws up to the back of the car. He looks in the back window. 
RAY'S POV  BACK SEAT OF THE CAR 
It is empty. 
The door on the highway side is ajar. 
BACK TO RAY 
No reaction. 
He walks around the back of the car onto the highway. He looks up the road. 
RAY'S POV 
Marty is crawling up the road on his hands and knees, leaving a trail of blood. The headlights of Ray's car give a fantastically long shadow. 
BACK TO RAY 
Still no reaction. He gets into the driver's seat and stares through the windshield as he gropes for the ignition key. 
RAY'S POV 
Marty, crawling. 
BACK TO RAY 
He throws the car into drive, looks at his target, thinks-- decides. He pulls the key out of the ignition and goes around to the trunk of the car. He opens it and pulls out a shovel. 
MARTY  LOW ANGLE 
From in front. The headlights glare behind him. His breath vaporizes. In the background Ray is walking toward him, dragging the shovel, which scrapes along the asphalt. As Ray moves into the foreground and turns to face Marty only his lower legs and the shovel are in frame. 
The shovel rises out of frame. 
CLOSE SHOT  RAY 
Both hands hold the shovel tensed over his shoulder. He stares down at Marty. A long pause. We hear a distant rumble. 
CLOSE SHOT  RAY'S FEET 
Inches away from Marty. Marty's hand slides forward and wraps around one of Ray's ankles. 
BACK TO RAY 
He shudders. He adjusts his grip on the shovel. 
The rumble grows louder. 
RAY'S FEET 
He jerks his foot away, breaking Marty's grasp. 
BACK TO RAY 
Looks up from Marty. The rumble grows louder. 
RAY'S POV 
Headlight beams, although not yet the headlights themselves, are visible a long way down the road. 
BACK TO RAY 
Staring down the road. Finally he lowers the shovel, walks back to the car and throws it viciously into the trunk, walks back up into the foreground and stoops down. 
CLOSE SHOT  MARTY 
As Ray grabs him under the armpits and starts dragging him back to the car. Just before Ray heaves him into the back seat, Marty coughs weakly. A fine spray of blood comes out with the cough. 
The engine rumble is quite loud now. 
MED SHOT  RAY  FROM ACROSS THE ROOF OF THE CAR 
As he slams the back door shut. He presses himself against the side of the car. Headlights glare over him; the truck roars by just behind him. 
EXT. OPEN FIELD 
FULL SHOT  RAY'S CAR 
MED SHOT  RAY 
Working furiously. His breath comes in short gasps. 
HIGH SHOT  THE GRAVE 
It is filled. Ray is packing down the earth, slamming the shovel furiously against the bare patch of earth. 
CLOSE SHOT  THE BLADE OF THE SHOVEL 
Being slammed down against the earth. Again and again. 
EXT. OPEN FIELD  SUNRISE 
The staccato beat of the shovel slamming against earth drops out at the cut. There is perfect quiet. The sun is just peeping over the horizon. In the foreground Ray is sitting in the open door of his car, smoking a cigarette. His gaze is fixed on a spot offscreen. 
HIS POV 
A house. Quite near by. 
The house and its perfect green rectangle of lawn are set incongruously in the middle of the open field. 
BACK TO RAY 
Staring, without emotion. 
He takes one last, fierce drag on the cigarette, then flicks it away. He takes the shovel, walks over to the grave and stares at it for several seconds, shovel clasped firmly in both hands. 
He walks back to the car. 
HIGH SHOT 
House, car and grave. Ray throws the shovel into the car, gets in, and turns the ignition. 
The engine coughs weakly and dies. 
He tries again. Same result. 
One more time. The engine coughs, sputters, and fires to life. The car runs over the grave and rattles on across the rutted field towards the highway in the distance. 
INT. RAY'S CAR  DAWN 
As Ray drives down the straight empty highway in the flat early-morning light. 
CLOSE SHOT  RAY 
Pale and unblinking. 
RAY'S POV  THE HIGHWAY 
In the distance we see a beat-up white station wagon approaching. It's headlights wink on, then off again. 
BACK TO RAY 
He squints at the approaching car. 
RAY'S POV 
The car is closer. It's headlights wink again. 
BACK TO RAY 
His jaw tightens. He stares intently at the car. Then, abruptly, he looks down at his dashboard. 
CLOSE SHOT  HEADLIGHT KNOB ON THE DASHBOARD 
His headlights are on. Ray's hand enters frame and pushes in the knob. 
SIDE ANGLE  RAY 
Watching the approaching station wagon. As it passes we catch a glimpse of its occupant. He grins and cocks a you-got-it finger at Ray before roaring out of frame. 
EXT. DESERTED GAS STATION 
HIGH ANGLE 
The station hasn't opened yet. Ray's car, empty, stands alone in the lot. Flat prairie stretches to the horizon. No movement in the frame. 
At the cut we hear the faint sound of a phone ringing through a receiver. After four or five rings the phone is picked up and we begin a slow crane down. 
ABBY (through phone; sleepily) Hello? 
RAY (present; very hoarsely) Abby... you all right? 
ABBY Ray?... What time is it? 
RAY (groggy) I didn't think I could sleep. I'm surprised you could. Are you all right? 
ABBY Yeah... 
She walks over and sits down on the bed. 
ABBY ...You called me this morning. 
RAY Yeah. 
Abby looks at him, expecting more. Finally: 
RAY ...I just wanted to let you know that everything was all right. I took care of everything. Now all we have to do is keep our heads. 
ABBY ...What do you mean? 
Ray finally looks directly at her. 
RAY I know about it, Abby. I went to the bar last night. 
Abby is looking at him in alarm. 
ABBY What happened?--Was Meurice there? 
RAY Yeah. 
He laughs shortly. 
RAY ...He didn't see me, though. Nobody saw me. 
The chair grates back as he stands up and looks vaguely around the room. 
RAY ...Is it cold in here? 
Abby is looking at him nervously. 
ABBY Well... what happened? 
RAY I cleaned it all up, but that ain't important... 
He starts nervously pacing around the room, looking for something. 
RAY ...What's important is what we do now; I mean we can't go around half- cocked. What we need is some time to think about this, figure it out... 
He moves a packing crate aside, still hunting around the apartment. 
RAY ...Anyway, we got some time now. But we gotta be smart. 
ABBY Ray-- 
RAY Abby, never point a gun at anyone unless you're gonna shoot him. And when you shoot him you better make sure he's dead... 
Ray's pacing is more agitated as he looks distractedly around the apartment. 
RAY ...because if he's not dead he's gonna get up and try and kill you. 
He pauses, seemingly at a total loss. 
RAY ...That's the only thing they told us in the service that was worth a goddamn--Where the hell's my windbreaker? 
ABBY What the hell happened, Ray? 
Ray is walking to the window. Sunlight streams in around him. 
RAY That ain't important. What's important is that we did it. That's the only thing that matters. We both did it for each other... 
He stoops down to look through a pile of clothes by the window. 
RAY ...That's what's important. 
ABBY I don't know what you're talking about. 
Ray's head snaps around. Staring at her he slowly rises to his feet and then remains still. 
ABBY I... I mean what're you talking about, Ray? I haven't done anything funny. 
RAY ...What was that? 
Abby, startled, can't contain her agitation anymore. 
ABBY (rapidly) Ray, I mean you ain't even acting like yourself. First you call me at five in the A.M. saying all kinds of nice things over the telephone and then you come charging in here scaring me half to death without even telling me what it is I'm supposed to be scared of. I gotta tell you it's extremely rattling. 
RAY 
We track toward him, isolating him against the window. He is perfectly still. For a long time he can't speak. 
MARTY'S VOICE (barking) Listen asshole, you know who this is. I just got back from Corpus and there's a lot of money missing from the safe... 
The mail stops dropping; Marty has Meurice's attention. 
MARTY'S VOICE ...I'm not saying you took it but the place was your responsibility and I told you to keep an eye on your asshole friend. Don't--uh, don't come to the bar tonight, I've got a meeting. But tomorrow I want to have a word with you, and with Ray--if you can find him. 
Dial tone. Beep. 
Meurice's hand drops into frame. 
WOMAN'S VOICE Meurice, where the hell have you been? I-- 
His finger presses the stop button. 
MATCH CUT TO: 
RAY'S FINGER 
Pressing into a dark stain in the upholstery of the back seat of his car. When he raises it the fingertip is red--the seat still wet with blood. 
CLOSE SHOT  RAY 
Looking down at the seat. He backs out of the car and walks up the driveway to his house. 
INT. RAY'S LIVING ROOM 
As he comes through the screen door. It bangs shut behind him. As he crosses the living room we see, and he hears, Meurice's Trans Am pulling up and stopping at the foot of the lawn. Ray turns and looks out the window. 
CLOSE SHOT  CLOSET DOOR 
Ray throws it open and hurriedly pulls out the first thing at hand--a sheet. We hear the door of the Trans Am open and slam shut. 
EXT. RAY'S BUNGALOW 
TRACKING SHOT  ON RAY 
Exiting the house as the screen door bangs and shudders behind him. He hurries down the walk. 
TRACKING SHOT  RAY'S POV 
Meurice is rounding the bottom of the lawn and starting up the drive toward the incriminating car. Its back door is standing ajar. 
MEURICE I hope you're planning on leaving town. 
BACK TO RAY 
Reacting to the line as he reaches the car. He bends over to throw the sheet over the seat just as Meurice walks up behind him. 
RAY (his back to Meurice; arranging the sheet) Got a problem, Meurice? 
MEURICE No, you do, cowboy. You been to the bar? 
Ray is still hunched in the open doorway. He freezes momentarily in arranging the sheet. 
RAY ...Why? 
MEURICE You shouldn't have taken the money... 
Ray doesn't reply or turn around. Meurice is getting more strident. 
MEURICE ...Look at me man, I'm serious. You broke in the bar and ripped off the safe... 
Ray backs out of the car and turns around. 
MEURICE ...Abby warned me you were gonna make trouble. Trouble with you is, you're too fucking obvious; the only ones with the combination are me and you... 
Ray looks evenly at Meurice. Behind him the sheet has been arranged over the seat. He puts an unlit cigarette in his mouth. 
MEURICE ...and Abby. Maybe. But as far as I'm concerned that only leaves one fucking possibility. 
RAY (tonelessly) What's that? 
Meurice reaches out and swipes the unlit cigarette out of Ray's mouth. 
MEURICE Those things are nothing but coffin nails. 
He turns and stares down the street, exasperated. 
MEURICE ...Look. Personally I don't give a shit. I know Marty's a hard-on but you gotta do something. I don't know; give the money back, say you're sorry, or get the fuck out of here, or something... 
Mow that his temper is gone, he realizes he has nothing much to say. He shakes his head and turns back down the drive, muttering as he lights himself Ray's cigarette. 
MEURICE ...It's very humiliating, preaching about this shit. 
CLOSE SHOT  RAY 
Staring. 
ABBY'S POV 
The dead fish. 
BACK TO ABBY 
She seems to be falling slowly backwards. The camera falls with her, keeping her in close shot. Her head hits a pillow. We pull back slowly to reveal that she is lying on the bed in her apartment, staring across the room. She lies motionless on the bad, her eyes wide. 
ABBY'S POV 
Across the darkened apartment we see the curtainless windows, and beyond them, across the lamplit street, the facade of the opposite building. 
LONG SHOT  ABBY 
Lying still. After a moment she gets out of bed, crosses to the front door of the apartment, locks it, then walks unsteadily back to the bed. 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN: 
SAME LONG SHOT  ABBY IN BED 
She opens her eyes, lies still for a moment, coughs. She gets out of bed and walks across the still dark apartment to the bathroom. She shuts the bathroom door. 
BATHROOM 
Abby looks at herself in the mirror above the sink, then turns on the tap water. From a neighboring apartment we hear a dull rhythmic thumping on the wall. She pauses, listens for a moment, then starts to splash water on her face. 
From somewhere offscreen we hear the sharp sound of glass shattering. It reverberates for a moment, then dies. Abby looks up at the bathroom door. We hear a scraping at the lock of her apartment door. Abby listens. 
Suddenly we hear the lock springing open, and the front door swinging on its hinges. 
CLOSE SHOT  ABBY 
Startled. She shuts off the water and stands motionless. Droplets of water are streaming down her face. 
We hear the sound of footsteps in the next room, crunching across broken glass. 
ABBY Ray...? 
There is no answer. After a moment we hear bedsprings creak in the next room. Abby opens the bathroom door and walks out. 
MAIN ROOM 
A shaft of light slices across the floor from the open bathroom door. Broken glass glints on the floor. In the semi- darkness we can see that someone is sitting on the bed. The person looks up. 
It is Marty. 
Abby recoils. 
MARTY Lover-boy oughta lock his door. 
Abby looks nervously at Marty. Droplets of water are still running down her face. She brushes one from her eye. 
MARTY I love you... 
He smiles thinly. 
MARTY ...That's a stupid thing to say, right? 
Abby takes a step back. 
ABBY I... I love you too. 
Still smiling, Marty shakes his head. 
MARTY No. You're just saying that because you're scared... 
He stands. We hear glass under his feet. He unbuttons the middle button of his coat and reaches inside. 
MARTY ...You left your weapon behind. 
He withdraws something from an inside pocket and tosses it to her. 
CLOSE SHOT  ABBY'S HANDS 
As she catches the object. It is her compact. 
CLOSE SHOT  ABBY 
She looks from her hands up to Marty. 
MARTY He'll kill you too. 
Ray shakes his head, smiling. Abby squints at him, looking for help. 
ABBY ...I don't know, wasn't it you? Maybe a burglar broke in, and you found-- 
RAY With your gun?... 
He puts the knife in his pocket and walks over to the door. As he approaches her: 
RAY ...Nobody broke in, Abby. I'll tell you the truth... 
Ray faces Abby in front of the door. 
RAY ...Truth is, I've felt sick the last couple of days. Can't eat... Can't sleep... When I try to I... Abby... 
It's difficult to bring out. Ray's hand gropes for the cross- slat on the screen door. Finally: 
RAY ...The truth is... he was alive when I buried him. 
Abby stares. 
An object materializes in the sky beyond them. It is flipping end-over-end in slow motion, moving toward Abby and Ray and the screen door. Abby and Ray, each staring at the other, fail to notice until-- 
THWACK--it bounces off the screen. 
Abby starts; Ray doesn't. 
The spell is broken, Abby pushes hesitantly at the screen door. Ray's hand slides off the cross-slat; he makes no move to stop her. 
CLOSE SHOT  THE FRONT STOOP 
As Abby steps over the rolled-up newspaper that hit the screen door. 
TRACKING SHOT  ON ABBY 
Hurrying down the driveway to get to her car. A low rumble is building on the soundtrack. Abby glances at Ray's car as she passes it. 
ABBY'S POV  TRACKING FORWARD  THE CAR 
More blood has seeped into and dried on the dropsheet covering the back seat. The bass rumble grows louder, punctuated by a rhythmic thumping. 
EXT. MEURICE'S APARTMENT  DAY 
OVER ABBY'S SHOULDER 
As she pounds frantically on the door--the sound continuing over the cut. After a moment the door edges open. 
Meurice is standing in the doorway in a long bathrobe. A sleeper's blindfold is pushed up over his forehead. 
MEURICE Abby. What's the matter? 
ABBY I... I'm sorry, Meurice. I gotta talk to you... Can I come in? 
He looks at her hard. 
MEURICE Yeah... yeah, come in... 
He steps aside to let her pass. 
MEURICE ...but I gotta tell ya... 
INT. MEURICE'S APARTMENT 
As Abby enters. 
MEURICE ...I'm retired. 
Meurice switches on a table lamp; the curtains are drawn against the sun. Abby follows Meurice over to the bar. 
MEURICE Jesus, I got a hangover. Want a drink? 
ABBY No, I-- 
MEURICE Well I do... 
He pours himself a drink. 
MEURICE ...For you I answer the door. If you wanna stay here, that's fine. But I'm retired. 
ABBY Something happened with Marty and Ray-- 
MEURICE (sharply) Abby... 
He glares at her. 
MEURICE ...Let me ask you one question... 
He looks up in his rearview mirror. 
RAY'S POV 
The headlights of the other car remain motionless behind him. The car makes no move to pass. 
BACK TO RAY 
He slowly takes the cigarette from his mouth and drops it onto the seat next to him. His eyes shift from the rearview mirror to the traffic light. 
RAY'S POV 
Green fog floats past the green light. 
BACK TO RAY 
His face frozen. He turns slowly to look behind. 
RAY'S POV 
The other car is still motionless. We hear the muted rumble of its engine. 
BACK TO RAY 
His eyes shift back to the mirror. He gropes for his window handle and slowly rolls it down. He sticks out his left arm, eyes still on the rearview mirror, and waves for the other car to go around him. 
RAY'S POV 
The other car remains still for a moment. White fog floats up beyond the red fog created by Ray's brake lights. 
Finally the car pulls out slowly to the left to pass. 
BACK TO RAY 
Watching the car pass. 
RAY'S POV 
As the car pulls out into the light from the intersection and Ray's headlights, we see that it is a battered green Volkswagon. First the car itself, and then its red tail lights, disappear into the fog. 
BACK TO RAY 
Watching, for a long moment. 
Finally he takes his foot off the brake, turns the steering wheel hard left and hangs a U-turn. 
MARTY'S LIVING ROOM  WIDE 
A light is switched on in the expensively appointed room. Meurice enters, walking silently on the carpet, looking around the room. He throws the light off at the far end and leaves. 
MARTY'S BEDROOM  WIDE 
The door swings open.  Meurice throws the switch near the door and the room is bathed in light. We are once again in the bedroom where we earlier saw Abby looking through her purses. 
We start to hear the faint buzzing of a fly. 
Meurice glances around, throws off the light, and shuts the door. Black. 
MARTY'S OFFICE 
Somewhere offscreen a light is switched on and we are looking in close shot at the dead fish. 
The sound of the fly is louder with the cut. 
CLOSE SHOT  RAY 
Standing in the doorway from the bar, staring down at the fish. 
WIDE SHOT  THE OFFICE 
Ray glances around at the broken glass lying on the floor. His gaze shifts to the safe and the hammer in front of it. He walks over to the safe and stoops down. 
CLOSE SHOT  RAY AT SAFE 
He works its battered dial and it swings open. He shuffles through the contents and brings out a small pile of photographs. 
RAY'S POV 
As he flips through the photographs. The first four are Ray and Abby in the motel room bed. The last is a mounted 8 x 10: Abby and Marty on a Gulf beach. 
BACK TO RAY 
Looking. 
HIS POV  PICTURE DETAIL 
MED SHOT  ABBY 
Sitting on the sofa, looking down out of frame. Behind her Meurice agitatedly paces back and forth, waving the splintered bottom half of the cue stick. His voice is unnaturally loud. 
MEURICE ...Something pretty fucking weird is going on. Put your coat on and I'll drop you at home. But don't talk to either of 'em until I do. And don't worry. Believe me. These things always have a logical explanation. Usually. 
ABBY'S POV 
The splintered top half of the cue stick on the coffee table. 
INT. ABBY'S HALLWAY 
Abby approaches her door in the foreground and lets herself in. 
INT. ABBY'S APARTMENT 
Looking toward the window. The room is dark. Through the window we see the facade of the building across the street. Abby enters frame in the foreground, in silhouette against the window, and throws an overhead light switch. The bright light reveals Ray standing by the window, looking out. 
RAY (abruptly) Turn it off. 
Abby jumps, startled. 
ABBY Ray... 
EXT. ROOF OF FACING APARTMENT BUILDING 
From the roof of the building across the street we are looking down on the facade of Abby's building. Most of its windows are dark, but in a brightly lit fourth-floor window we can clearly see Abby and Ray. 
A man is on the roof in the foreground, hitching a rifle to his shoulder. 
INT. ABBY'S APARTMENT 
Ray turns from the window which, with the switching on of the overhead light, has become a mirror of the interior of the apartment. 
RAY Just turn it off. 
EXT. FACING ROOF 
The light goes out in the apartment across the street; its window goes opaque. 
INT. ABBY'S APARTMENT 
Dark now. Ray still stands by the window, looking out. Abby still stands by the light switch. 
RAY (answering a question) No curtains on the windows. 
Abby is clearly apprehensive--about Ray, not about anything outside. 
ABBY ...So? 
RAY I think someone's watching. 
Abby doesn't understand, and has had enough. As she throws the light back on: 
ABBY So what'll they see? 
Ray turns angrily from the window. 
RAY Just leave it off. He can see in. 
EXT. FACING ROOF 
Ray and Abby are once again clearly visible. Ray is starting across the room. 
INT. ABBY'S APARTMENT 
Abby takes a fearful step back as Ray strides toward the light switch, next to her. 
ABBY (abruptly) --If you do anything the neighbors'll hear. 
This brings Ray up short. He stares at Abby. It registers that it is him she's afraid of. 
RAY You think... 
He shakes his head. 
RAY ...Abby. I meant it... when I called... 
Abby takes another step back. Her voice comes out, after a pause, half-strangled: 
ABBY ...I love you too. 
Ray winces. He slowly shakes his head with a pained half- smile. 
RAY Because you're scared. 
We can hear footsteps approaching up the hallway. 
Abby enters frame and kneels down next to Ray. She fumbles around him briefly in the darkness. 
The doorknob rattles. Abby freezes, listening, trying to control her breath. After a moment we hear a scraping at the lock. 
Abby moves to the bathroom adjoining the main room and shuts the door behind her. 
BATHROOM 
It is very small. Abby presses her palms against the door and slowly eases her ear against the door to listen. The scraping in the apartment door lock continues. Sweat streams down Abby's face. She brushes a drop from her eye. 
We hear the snap of the lock springing open, and the front door swinging on its hinges. 
CLOSER ON ABBY 
Her ear pressed to the door. From the next room we hear the sound of footsteps crunching across broken glass. 
Abby backs away from the door, stares at it, then turns and moves to the bathroom window. She looks out. 
ABBY'S POV 
A sheer drop to the narrow backyard of the building four stories below. Next to Abby's window is another window, separated from hers only by the breadth of the wall, that separates the two apartments. 
ABBY'S APARTMENT 
Visser hunches, hands on knees, over Ray, who lies on the floor out of frame. 
VISSER (grimly) All right... 
He hunkers down closer to Ray. 
VISSER ...You got some of my personal property. 
He is rummaging through Ray's pockets but comes up empty- handed. 
VISSER ...One of you does. 
Visser looks down at Ray, glances around the room, looks back down at Ray. 
VISSER ...I don't know what the hell you two thought you were gonna pull. 
His hand, gripping something, flashes down out of frame. We hear a dull crunch. 
BATHROOM 
Abby has drawn her head back from the bathroom window. She moves back to the door and braces herself against it. 
ABBY'S APARTMENT 
Visser straightens up from Ray's body. He drops something to the floor, out of frame, that lands with a thud. 
He goes over to the light switch on the wall and flips it back and forth. No light. 
He goes over to the brass lamp, sets it upright, tries its switch. Again nothing. 
He disappears into the kitchenette as we hold on its open doorway. After a moment we hear a refrigerator hum as a cold blue light plays in the doorway. There is the rattle of a can being pulled off the refrigerator rack, and the snap of its pull-tab being opened. After a couple of audible slurps we hear the can go back on the rack and, as the blue light disappears, we hear the refrigerator door close. 
Visser reappears in the doorway. He surveys the room, fixes on the bathroom door, goes over, turns the knob. The door swings open. 
He walks in. 
BATHROOM 
Visser looks around the cramped space. The shower curtain is drawn. He casually draws it back. The shower is empty. 
He goes to the window and leans out. 
VISSER'S POV 
The sheer drop below; the other window to one side. 
BACK TO VISSER 
He draws his head back in, presses his palms against the adjacent wall, and eases his ear to the wall to listen. 
Perfect quiet. 
After a moment he goes back to the window, braces himself against the sash, and sticks his arm out--groping for the window of the adjacent apartment. 
EXT. ABBY'S BUILDING / BATHROOM WINDOW 
CLOSE SHOT  VISSER'S FACE 
Pressing against the glass as he leans against the upper half of the bathroom window. 
