MRS. SINGER Don't apologize. That's the kind of attitude you've got to have these days... 
EXT. THE BEACHFRONT - NIGHT 
The hottest January in fifty years has brought the crowds to the beach in search of relief. But they've been disappointed. Even the breeze off the ocean seems blown from a hair dryer. Still, the nights are a trifle better and the Beachfront, the penny arcades, the ice cream stands and bars are busy, even now in the middle of the week. 
Racine comes out of a bar and lights a cigarette, idly watching the passing parade. There is a free band concert in progress at the band shell. Racine wanders in that direction. 
EXT. THE BAND SHELL - NIGHT 
The Miranda Beach High School Orchestra is playing to a full, sweating house; the audience is a sea of orange programs fluttering away as fans. People come and go frequently. 
The atmosphere is as innocent and informal as the music the band is playing now. 
Racine leans against the back rail, smoking, his eyes playing over the scene with no expectations. 
Then, down near the center aisle, a WOMAN rises. As the band plays on, this extraordinary, beautiful woman, in a simple white dress, moves down the aisle. She moves wonderfully. The dress clings to  her body in the heat. 
Racine watches, mesmerized, as she walks directly toward him. She passes within a few inches of him, her eyes lowered. Racine's body sways a moment as she goes by, as though buffeted by some force. But they do not touch. She goes out onto the Beachfront walkway. 
EXT. THE BEACHFRONT WALKWAY - NIGHT 
The Woman, MATTY, has walked to the rail. She stands there now lighting a cigarette. She presents her face 
to the ocean, hoping for a breeze.    We move in on her, with Racine. 
Racine lights a new cigarette and smiles at her. She looks at him and, for an instant, her eyes race over his body, then she looks back at the ocean. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              8. 
RACINE You can stand here with me if you want, but you'll have to agree not to talk about the heat. 
She looks at him, and there is something startling about the directness of her gaze. When she speaks, she is cool without being hostile. 
MATTY I'm a married woman. 
RACINE Meaning what? 
MATTY Meaning I'm not looking for company. 
She turns back toward the ocean. 
RACINE Then you should have said -- 'I'm a happily married woman.' 
MATTY That's my business. 
RACINE What? 
MATTY How happy I am. 
RACINE And how, happy is that? 
She looks at him curiously. She begins walking slowly along the rail. He walks too. 
MATTY You're not too smart, are you? 
Racine shakes his head "no." 
MATTY I like that in a man. 
RACINE What else you like -- Ugly?   Lazy? Horny? I got 'em all. 
MATTY You don't look lazy. 
Racine smiles. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              9. 
MATTY Tell me, does chat like that work with most women? 
RACINE Some. If they haven't been around much. 
MATTY I wondered. Thought maybe I was out of touch. 
She stops again at the rail as a small breeze blows in from the ocean. She turns her back to it and, with her cigarette dangling from her lips, she uses both hands to lift her hair up off her nape. She closes her eyes as the air hits her. Racine watches very closely. 
RACINE How 'bout I buy you a drink? 
MATTY I told you. I've got a husband. 
RACINE I'll buy him one too. 
MATTY He's out of town. 
RACINE My favorite kind. We'll drink to him. 
MATTY He only comes up on the weekends. 
Matty lets her hair fall and again begins moving down walkway. She drops her cigarette and steps on it. 
RACINE I'm liking him better all the time. You better take me up on this quick. In another forty-five minutes I'm going to give up and walk away. 
Racine is behind the desk. Occupying the two seats in front are a married couple rapidly approaching divorce. They are arguing now, each trying to convince Racine of their view. Racine nods occasionally, looking from one to the other. But he is also looking between them, through the open door out to the reception room, where his secretary Beverly is kneeling before the lowest drawer of a filing cabinet. Her back is turned and her jeans are tight across the bottom. There's nothing especially provocative about her pose. She's just there. Working away. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 13. 
Racine walks across his office and closes the door.   He goes back to his seat. The couple continues. 
EXT. THE BAND SHELL - NIGHT 
Another concert going on, a trio   of musicians. Racine moves down the sidewalk away from   the audience. He looks around as he lights a cigarette.    She is nowhere in sight. Racine opens the door to his car,   a nicked-up red '64 Stingray. 
EXT. PINEHAVEN - DAY 
Racine drives past a neat sign -- 
"You are entering PINEHAVEN Please drive carefully" 
There's money here. Many of the homes are not visible from the street -- only their gates announce their presence. Those that can be seen are sprawling and lavish. The Waterway appears to the left. A large white yacht cruises slowly by. 
INT. RACINE'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Racine sits in bed smoking a cigarette. At the mirror, a Nurse in a fresh white uniform steps into her white shoes and begins attaching her cap with bobby pins. 
INT. COCKTAIL LOUNGE - PINEHAVEN - NIGHT 
Dark. Almost classy. The place is half full. Matty is drinking at the end of the bar, her cigarettes next to her glass. The bar chairs near her are empty. 
Racine comes in, looks around, walks over and sits in the seat next to her. She looks up, surprised. 
MATTY Look who's here. Isn't this a coincidence? 
Racine looks at her, almost as though he can't place her. But he doesn't push that effect hard. He lights a cigarette. 
RACINE I know you. 
MATTY You're the one that doesn't want to talk about the heat. Too bad. I'd tell you about my chimes. 
RACINE What about them? 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               14. 
MATTY The wind chimes on my porch. They keep ringing and I go out there expecting a cool breeze. That's what they've always meant. But not this summer, This summer it's just hot air. 
RACINE Do I remind you of hot air? 
The Bartender has come up. 
RACINE Bourbon, any kind, on the rocks. (to Matty) Another? 
She thinks, then nods her agreement.    The Bartender moves away. 
MATTY What are you doing in Pinehaven? 
RACINE I'm no yokel. Why, I was all the way to Miami once. 
MATTY There are some men, once they get a whiff of it, they'll trail you like a hound. 
The Bartender brings their drinks and leaves. 
RACINE I'm not that eager. 
MATTY What is your name, anyway? 
RACINE (offers his hand) Ned Racine. 
MATTY Matty Walker. 
She takes his hand and shakes it. Racine reacts strangely to her touch and doesn't let go right away. She gently frees it, then refers to his look as she picks up her drink -- 
RACINE Are you all right? 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                  15. 
MATTY (laughs) Yes. My temperature runs a couple degrees high. Around 100 all the time I don't mind it. It's the engine or something. 
RACINE Maybe you need a tune-up. 
MATTY Don't tell me -- you have just the right tool. 
RACINE I don't talk that way. 
MATTY How'd you find me, Ned? 
Racine gives her a look. 
RACINE This is the only joint in Pinehaven. 
MATTY How'd you know I drink? 
RACINE You seemed like a woman with all the vices. 
MATTY (smiles) You shouldn't have come. You're going to be disappointed. 
Racine agrees. Matty looks him over a moment, then turns to unlock the door. 
INT. ENTRY HALL/SECOND FLOOR HALL - NIGHT 
Matty comes in and puts her purse on a hall table as Racine moves forward to look around. Despite the night gloom, it's clear the place is expensively decorated in a manner entirely consistent with the exterior of the house. Fine antiques, carefully chosen fabrics, and a meticulous selection of accessories have given the place the look of an affluent home of Thirties America. And yet the overall effect is almost contemporary, so burnished are the woods, so fresh all the elements. It works. 
RACINE Just like my place. 
Matty gives him a searching look, then      leads   him up the stairs, flipping on only an occasional      light   in their path. In the second floor hall, Matty       moves   to the front of the house. Racine glances into the       gloom   that hides Matty's bedroom. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              19. 
RACINE No help? 
MATTY She goes home nights. 
RACINE You're not nervous alone? 
Matty pauses at the doors to the porch, unlocking them, and looks at Racine as though she barely understands the question. 
MATTY No. 
EXT. SECOND FLOOR PORCH - NIGHT 
The TINKLING is distinct out here. Matty and Racine come out onto the porch. There are about thirty wind chimes of various, lovely designs -- crystal, metal, wood hanging at intervals from the rim of the wide porch awning, completely encircling Matty and Racine. 
Halfway down the long lawn is a white gazebo. Beyond it, the waterway is shimmering in the moonlight. At the edge of the water is a small boat house. 
Racine walks along under the chimes, looking up at them. A smile plays across her face. He looks back at Matty, 
RACINE You do have chimes. 
He looks out at the boat house. 
RACINE What's that? 
MATTY A gazebo 
RACINE No, out there. 
MATTY Boat house. 
RACINE What is in there? 
MATTY Boat. 
Racine moves back and stands very close to her. He looks at her in the moonlight, but she concentrates on the distant water. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 20. 
MATTY It's a mess. There's a row boat, a lot of lounge chairs... things like that. 
Racine puts his hand up under her hair, on her nape. She closes her eyes at his touch, then moves away, as though by an act, of will, to the door, half opening it. 
MATTY I think you should go now. 
RACINE I just got here. 
MATTY You've seen them. Please go. 
Racine steps toward her, but she ducks inside and moves through the intermittent light of the hall and down the steps. Racine follows her. 
INT. ENTRY HALL 
Matty stops at the entry hall, leaning against the wall. 
RACINE You didn't bring me here to see your wind chimes. 
He puts an arm on each side of her, caging her against the wall. She looks up at him. 
MATTY Yes, I did. I said what I meant. Do you ever do that? 
RACINE No.     not very often. 
He kisses her light on the forehead.   Again she reacts, but fights it. 
RACINE I don't think you want me to go. 
MATTY Yes... Please. 
He kisses her lightly on the nose. 
RACINE There's nothing to be afraid of. 
MATTY There is for me. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                21. 
Matty slips under his arms and quickly steps out the front door. She stands just outside watching him. Racine shakes his head, goes out there. 
EXT. FRONT TERRACE - NIGHT 
RACINE (reacting) Hey, gimme a break here.    It takes a little while. 
MATTY (ignoring him, laughs) It's your fault. 
RACINE (smiling) It takes me a good thirty seconds. 
MATTY Are you sure?    I just want to make sure here. 
She pulls him down. 
On the lounge cushions that are spread across the floor, Matty rolls on top of Racine. Racine reacts with exaggerated pain to the roughness of the cushions. 
RACINE Jesus, I think you're right -- (he rolls over her) -- you better be on the bottom. 
MATTY No, you misunderstood -- (she rolls over him) -- this is my new saddle, and I just want to -- 
RACINE Wow!   No, I must object -- 
Laughing, they roll again and we're on Racine's face as we: 
CUT TO: 
INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Racine's face; he is still rolling, but he is alone. He has just rolled off the bed. He lies there like a dead man. 
RACINE (finally, breathless) Enough. 
INT. MASTER BATHROOM - NIGHT 
Racine is at the sink, having just washed his tired face. He opens the medicine cabinet and looks at all the 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               25. 
toiletries of Matty's husband. He selects a cologne, is impressed by its expensive look, and slaps a little on his jaw.  He doesn't like the smell. He closes the cabinet and moves back into the bedroom. 
INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Matty, wrapped in a thin white terrycloth robe, is stripping the bed of its sheets. Racine watches from across the room. 
RACINE What are you doing? 
MATTY I've got to wash these. 
RACINE You're afraid of your maid? 
MATTY That's right. My mother told me "knowledge is power." 
RACINE This is an interesting interpretation. Is that why you've started smoking my brand? 
Matty straightens with an armload of sheets. 
MATTY No one must know. Promise me, Ned. No one. 
He promise with a gesture. 
INT. RACINE'S APARTMENT - DAWN 
Racine comes in, beat. He throws his jacket across a chair. Out the windows to the porch, the sun is rising out of the Atlantic. Racine goes there and closes the curtains. In the gloom he walks to his bed and sits on the edge, kicking off his shoes. He picks up his alarm clock and begins setting it. 
EXT. WALKER HOUSE - LAWN/GAZEBO - NIGHT 
Racine has just parked his car and is walking back across the lawn. Matty is standing in the gazebo, her back turned, looking out at the Waterway. 
She is dressed in white and from here she looks very much as she did when they first met. There are wind chimes hanging from the gazebo. 
RACINE Hey, lady, wanna make love? 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              26. 
The lady in question turns around, surprised. It is not Matty at all. It is MARY ANN. She's attractive, but a little cheap-looking. She looks him over. 
MARY ANN I don't know. Maybe This sure is a friendly town. 
Racine is nonplussed.   He doesn't know what to do. 
RACINE I'm sorry. 
MARY ANN (mock hurt feelings) You are? You mean the offers no good? 
Racine comes up on the porch. 
RACINE I feel like a jerk. 
Mary Ann gives him a salacious smile. 
MARY ANN Maybe you were supposed to deliver it next door? (a beat) You must be looking for the lady of the house. 
Unbeknownst to either of them, Matty has been watching from the lawn. Now she moves up into the gazebo. In her right hand she has an envelope, well-filled and sealed. 
EXT. INTERSECTION 
RACINE You're killing me. 
MATTY Is there any more ice?   I'm burning up. 
Racine gropes for the ice container and dumps the remaining ice cubs Into the tub with them. Matty snatches one out of the water and holds it to her forehead. 
MATTY He's coming up tomorrow. 
Racine knows. 
MATTY I can't stand the thought of him... He's small and mean... and weak. 
Racine watches some water run through his fingers. He cradles her head in an embrace that has nothing to do with sex. She looks sad. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              30. 
EXT. GROUNDS - WALKER'S PLACE -- NIGHT 
The Middle of the Night. A light FOG has rolled in. Racine is walking slowly through the shadows of the heavy foliage. He stops beside a rubber tree. 
RACINE'S POV. The Walker House. In front sits a huge white Cadillac. All the lights in the house are out. The wind chimes TINKLE softly. 
Racine lights a cigarette. 
INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY 
Racine stands at the window staring down at the busy Main Street. He is far away. 
INT. ENTRY HALL - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT 
Racine has just entered.   Matty is calling from somewhere out of sight. 
MATTY (O.S.) Just do what I say! Go into the living room. 
RACINE Come on! It's been three days.      I want to see you -- 
MATTY (O.S.) I'm going to make it up to you tonight. But you must behave.      Now go! 
RACINE I'm going.   I'm going. 
INT. LIVING ROOM 
Racine goes into the living room and sits down on the couch. 
RACINE I'm here. 
MATTY (O.S.) Good. 
Matty comes in carrying a tray with two drinks on it. And she is dressed in the uniform of an airline stewardess, complete all the way to her little cap. She cannot keep a straight face, despite her efforts. Racine begins to laugh. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                31. 
MATTY (choking back her giggles) Good evening, sir... welcome to... to Flight 413 ... nonstop to ... 
She hands him a drink, but he takes it and the tray and puts them on the floor. He pulls her down across his lap. They are both laughing hard. He kisses her. 
RACINE What do you take me for? 
MATTY Don't you like it? 
RACINE You think I'm a kid? 
MATTY You don't like it? I thought you went for this stuff. 
He pushes her back across the sofa. 
MATTY Wait ...   wait ... I want to tell you about the   thing... the thing that will drop   from the ceiling... in case the   cabin suddenly depressurizes -- oho... 
EXT. DRIVING RANGE - NIGHT 
A dozen Golfers are practicing, spotted along the  row of hitting pads under floodlights. Most are drenched   with sweat from their exertion in the muggy air. Their   randomly timed swings send streaking white bullets into the darkness. But what is hypnotic, what so captures   a hot night in sound, is the irregular CRACKING of clubs  meeting balls: CRACK, CRACK-CRACK-CRACK, CRACK-CRACK! 
In the darkness of the overlooking parking lot, behind a high fence, sits the Stingray, with Racine in the driver's seat and Matty close beside him. They sit in silence. 
MATTY (finally) What are we doing here? 
RACINE (hushed) Listen! (CRACK, CRACK) I love that sound. 
Matty listens, but her eyes are on Racine. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                32. 
MATTY I want to be in bed. 
RACINE Is that all you ever think about? 
Racine watches the Golfers, listening intently.    Then he sees that Matty is crying. He comforts her. 
RACINE Hey!   I'm kidding. 
Matty looks straight ahead and her tone is somber. 
He takes a big bite of pie. 
LOWENSTEIN Oscar, I just don't understand how you could be doing advanced theoretical thinking like that and still be stuck working in our little town. 
GRACE (good-humored) Lowenstein dreams of bigger things. 
LOWENSTEIN Assistant County Prosecutor isn't the end for me, fellows. 
RACINE Hell, no. Someday -- Deputy County Prosecutor. 
LOWENSTEIN When the truth comes out about some of the dirt I've been involved in, (MORE) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                36. 
LOWENSTEIN (CONT'D) my future in this state will be unlimited. 
Glenda the Meter Maid passes their table on her way out. She has eyes only for Racine. 
GLENDA Hello, Ned. 
RACINE Hi, Glenda. 
She goes out. Lowenstein and Grace look at Racine, then at each other. Grace smiles hugely. 
EXT. LIGHTHOUSE/SAND DUNES - NIGHT 
The big beacon turns in the distance, throwing an intermittent bridge of light across the water toward us. 
The undulating dunes stretch off as far as we can see. Racine's Stingray is parked on the dirt access road. Below it, Racine and Matty sit close in the warm sand. 
MATTY Don't say it, if you don't mean it. Please, Ned, don't. 
RACINE I do. I want you with me. 
She looks at him a long time. There is real joy in her face. And tears in her eyes. We're very close to those eyes as she wipes the tears away. Racine puts an arm around her. She looks out at the lighthouse. 
MATTY I'm going to tell Edmund I want a divorce. I won't stay any longer. I would have, if you hadn't come along. The life is comfortable. I was willing to go on. But you've reminded me of what it can be... I know now that these last three years I've been living half a life. It's my fault, I don't deny it. You have to let yourself be bought. I did. I let it happen. I've lived so much of my life with nothing. When you have no money, you have no choices. I don't care what they say -- money is freedom. That's something they don't teach you in school. But I found out. And when Edmund came along when I saw a chance to stop struggling I took it. I'm not ashamed. (MORE) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org          37. 
MATTY (CONT'D) He got   what he wanted... he has a knack   for that. But no more. I'm ready   to walk away from the money. I have   to be with you. 
RACINE (kisses her, smiles) It is conceivable I'll make a buck someday. 
MATTY (hugs him closer) Oh, I know you will, darling. I didn't mean that. I know you will. But it doesn't matter. It's you I want. That's all. 
RACINE Anyway, you'll come out all right. 
MATTY Of the divorce? 
RACINE Yeah.    He's ripe. 
Matty is silent for a long beat. 
MATTY No.   I signed a pre-nuptial agreement. 
RACINE What? 
MATTY He insisted. He blamed it on his sister Roz -- she's always hated me -- but I know he wanted it too. 
RACINE How is it? 
MATTY Bad. I get some money for a year. Not much. That's it. But I don't care, Ned. Not if I can be with you. 
She searches his face, almost frightened. 
MATTY Does it matter, Ned? Tell me the truth please. I'll understand, I swear to you. 
RACINE The truth? I wish you were going to be loaded. Does it matter? No. No. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               38. 
They kiss. 
MATTY God, you've made me happy. (she pulls away) It's time for your present. 
She jumps up and runs back to the car. Racine walks back there as Matty takes a wrapped package out of the car. She hands it to Racine, who leans against the car to unwrap it. 
MATTY From now on, when it starts coming down on you, I'll be there to protect you. 
Racine opens the box and smiles broadly. It is a hat a fedora in the classic style. 
MATTY Put it on! I'll bet I guessed the size right. 
Racine puts on the fedora. It fits. He looks simultaneously old-fashioned, a visitor from the Forties, and also very chic, a present-day fashion plate. But most of all, he looks exactly right. Matty squeals in glee at the sight. 
MATTY I love it. 
RACINE I want to see. 
Racine tries to see his reflection in the car's side view mirror but he has trouble. Matty, very animated in her delight, steps up and kisses him quickly. 
Walker looks at Racine and laughs. As he begins to speak, he focuses intently on Racine. He seems to be trying to communicate something other than what he's saying. 
WALKER You wouldn't believe the dorkus she was with when I met her. The guy came to us with a business proposition. We're always looking for opportunities. If the conditions are right. We're willing to take an occasional risk, if the downside isn't too steep. But this guy hadn't done his homework, he didn't know the bottom line. That's how I knew he was full of shit. You've got to know the bottom line. That's all that really counts. 
Again Walker takes off his glasses. He holds them up to the light and then rubs them again with his handkerchief. 
WALKER He didn't have the goods,  this guy. He was like a lot of guys  you run into -- they want to get  rich, they want to do it quick, they  want to be there with one score. 
He puts his glasses back on, stares at Racine. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              48. 
WALKER But they're not willing to do what's necessary. Do you know what I mean? 
Racine looks at him in silence for a moment. 
RACINE I'm not sure. You mean, lay the groundwork? Earn it? 
WALKER No. I mean do what's necessary. Whatever's necessary. 
The two men stare at each other a few beats. 
RACINE Yeah. I know that kind of guy. I can't stand that. It makes me sick. 
WALKER Me too. 
RACINE I'm not like that. 
Walker ROARS with laughter. A huge, powerful burst that shakes the table. And Racine laughs with him. 
EXT. WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT 
Matty's bedroom window, from a distance.  The light goes out, Racine is watching from the shadows of the gazebo. He stares up there. The TINKLING of the  wind chimes rises and rises. It crests and begins to fade,  replaced by the WHOOSHING. 
EXT. BEACH - DAWN 
Racine runs south along the beach. The WHOOSHING slows. He is looking at something. He takes out his cigarettes as he slows to a walk. When he is directly across from what he's staring at, he sits in the sand, He lights up. 
RACINE'S POV - "THE BREAKERS," an ancient wooden beach hotel, of medium size, sits at the edge of the beach. It is closed down, boarded up, deteriorating horribly in the ocean air. 
EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY 
Lunchtime. Racine is headed toward his office, briefcase in hand. Beverly appears out of the noon crush; she's going the other way in a hurry. 
BEVERLY There are some messages on your desk. Be back in an hour. Got to run. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               49. 
INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY 
Racine comes into the reception room from the hall. He's surprised the door is unlocked. He crosses the room and opens the door to his office. 
Matty is sitting in one of the chairs in front of his desk. She jumps up at the sight of him and moves up to embrace him. 
RACINE Jesus!    Did Beverly see you? 
Matty kisses him on the mouth, then shakes her head "no." 
MATTY I waited till I saw her leave.      Please don't be angry with me. 
RACINE Angry? I'm not angry -- How'd you get in? 
MATTY It didn't lock. Oh. Ned, hold me. Please just hold me, God, I love you. 
Racine reaches over and locks the door to his office. 
MATTY He left this morning.      I had to see you. 
RACINE (kissing her) I know. 
MATTY I couldn't call. I'm afraid to call. I was afraid you wouldn't let me come. 
RACINE Yes, that's right. You can't call. Never call. We have to be very careful now about the phone. The phone company keeps records. 
MATTY I'm careful. I hated it, Ned. I hated sitting there with the two of you. I thought I was going to scream. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              50. 
RACINE (distracted, thinking) You did good. (finds his thought) You've called my apartment from the house. 
MATTY No, never. 
RACINE No?   Those two times -- 
MATTY I went to phone booths. I'm afraid of him, Ned. I'm always afraid. 
RACINE That's good. We have to be careful about the phones now. 
MATTY Why, Ned, why do you say this now? 
RACINE (in his own thoughts) We could account for a couple calls. We've had some contact. That would make sense. 
MATTY I don't know why he's so crazy about her. Maybe because he never had any of his own. She's a cute little girl, all right, but other than that... I know this, though, her mother has worked plenty hard to keep Heather on Edmund's mind, Always bringing her around, reporting everything she does in school. That Roz is a smart one. And you know that anything Heather inherits goes straight to Roz. Heather won't even get a look at it. That's the part I can't stand. That's why it seems so wrong to have half of it go to her. 
She hands him his glass and stands next to him, her hand playing with his hair. 
RACINE That's the way it is.       There's nothing we can do about it. 
She kneels beside him. 
MATTY Are you sure, Ned? I've been thinking about it. Maybe there is. The will is with his lawyer in Miami I know that. What if I could get him to bring it home? He did it once, he'd do it again. If I could swing it, couldn't we rewrite it? Change it. Then when he dies, I could find the new one. We could just change it a little. Every little change would mean a lot to us, End. You're a lawyer. You know how to write it. It wouldn't seem so odd. I could say he brought it home and we talked about it and decided to make some changes up here. And I knew you already -- 
Racine is shaking his head. 
RACINE No.   Forget it. 
MATTY I just don't see why Heather should take half -- 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                55. 
Racine puts down his drink and turns to look down at her. 
RACINE Listen to me, Matty. Nothing strange can happen in his life right now, not one thing out of the ordinary. That's vital, that's the main thing. If anything does, the chances double that we get caught. You and I are walking out there on the edge every second now. One false move and we're gonna fall off. It'll be all over. You've got to remember that all the time. (he studies her face) You'll get half of everything and it'll be plenty. No matter what it is, we're gonna be satisfied. We're not gonna get greedy. If we do, we'll get burned. You gotta believe me, baby, the odds that we'll get burned are good enough without looking for trouble. 
She studies him with frightened eyes, then nods her agreement and lays her hand in his lap. 
MATTY You're right, darling.   I'm sorry. I know you're right. 
EXT. "THE BREAKERS" - NIGHT 
Middle of the night. No one in sight. Now comes the only movement -- a Miranda Beach Police Patrol Car drives slowly up the street next to the old hotel and turns south on Ocean Avenue. When it is gone, all is dead again. 
EXT. THE BEACH - NIGHT 
Racine has   watched the patrol car from the  darkness of the beach.   Now he sits in the sand again,  his back against the raised   bank of sand on which he runs.   He lights a flashlight   and makes a notation in a small  notepad. 
INT. "THE BREAKERS" - NIGHT 
Racine's footsteps creak through the blackness. Then his flashlight reveals a corridor in the crumbling basement of the old hotel. Racine is not the first to have violated the premises -- scattered about are beer cans, whiskey bottles, beds made of newspapers, the remains of food. Rats CHITTER and scamper in the shadows. A lizard scoots over the pipes. 
Racine goes through a doorway and is in what used to be a supply area at the bottom of a stairway. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                56. 
Scattered about are empty wooden food crates. The walls are lined with tall wooden shelves; one of these units is tipped over across the room, Racine shines his light in that direction and sees what caused the shelves to fall. One of the beams which cross the ceiling has rotted loose and dropped one end to the floor. 
Racine has found what he wanted. 
EXT. WALKER HOUSE - PARKING AREA - MIGHT 
We're CLOSE ON RACINE'S WATCH; it reads 2:30. 
RACINE Okay.   Gotta go. 
Racine, at the wheel of the Stingray is looking at his watch. Matty is leaning down to the window dressed only in a robe. 
MATTY Be careful. 
RACINE I'm just going for a ride.   I wish it was all this dangerous. 
She kisses him deeply. 
MATTY I love you. 
He looks at his watch again and pulls away.     Matty stands watching. 
EXT. FROM PINEHAVEN TO "THE BREAKERS" - SERIES OF SHOTS - NIGHT 
Racine drives his murder route. The roads are almost totally deserted. Intermittently he passes signs welcoming him to the towns as he travels south. 
A. The first stretch of his trip, Racine travels on a deserted back road with overhanging trees. A Teenage Hotrodder passes him and he is alone again. As he turns off the road, he checks his watch. B. He drives through a neighborhood of neat houses. No life. C. He turns onto a four line interstate. More traffic here -- long haul truckers, late night drinkers. D. He drives across a graceful drawbridge, rimmed by lights, over a canal. E. He drives toward the ocean beside a pretty lake in a park. A patrol car passes the other way. Racine checks his watch. F. At "The Breakers." Racine follows the same path as the police car he'd watched. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                  57. 
INT. COUNTY JAIL - CORRIDOR OUTSIDE VISITING ROOM - DAY 
A seedy-looking Thief is brought out of the visiting room by a Uniformed Deputy, followed by Racine, briefcase in hand. Racine shakes the Thief's hand. The Deputy leads the Thief away down the hall. Racine glances at his departing client, then heads in the other direction. Before he has gone too far a heavy, metal, barred door at the other end swallows up the Thief with a piercing CLANG! Racine jumps. He puts a hand against the wall. 
INT. BED - MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Racine and Matty, just their heads on one pillow, inches apart. They look at each other in silence. Finally -- 
RACINE And? 
MATTY The side door. 
RACINE And? 
MATTY Two A.M. I send him down. 
RACINE We won't talk again after     I leave here tonight. I'll be in      Miami by noon Friday. You won't be      able to reach me. When I see you      again, he'll be dead. 
Matty nods.   She begins to cry.     Racine touches her. 
Matty's face, her head on a pillow, turned away from her husband, away from the bedroom door. Her look is just as intense as Racine's. Her eyes are focused on - 
An alarm clock on the nightstand -- 1:15. 
There is the SOUND of a car somewhere outside and Matty reacts to it silently. She listens with her whole being. The wind chimes TINKLE. 
EXT. SIDE DOOR - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT 
Racine's hand takes hold of the doorknob. He tries it. It won't open. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                60. 
Racine's face. Puzzled. He gives an irritated glance upward. Then he moves along the wall. 
INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
The alarm clock -- 1:42. 
Matty watches. Matty listens. She tries to confirm that Walker is sleeping without looking there. Matty begins to move her legs slowly toward the side of the bed, to get out. 
Suddenly, the bed lurches. Matty gasps and whips her head around to look. Edmund is standing next to his side of the bed in his undershorts. He puts on his glasses and looks at her. 
WALKER Jesus, take it easy. I thought I was tense. 
MATTY What are you doing? 
WALKER I can't sleep. I'm going down and get something to drink. 
Matty watches with panicky eyes as Edmund moves toward door. When she speaks, her voice is different, husky. 
MATTY Edmund. 
He turns to look at her.   She moves once on the bed, languidly. 
MATTY I can't sleep, either. 
He peers at her in the darkness. 
MATTY Lock the door, darling. 
Edmund studies her, then walks over and locks the door. 
WIPE TO: 
INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Edmund's alarm clock - 2:05. Edmund rolls into view, his breath ragged. Matty's hand is on his chest. 
Edmund looks at her and laughs. 
WALKER You trying to kill me? 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                61. 
Matty, flat on her back, smiles weakly and looks at the ceiling. Again, the mattress moves. She looks at Edmund. He has pulled on his shorts and is walking toward the bathroom. 
WALKER I'm going downstairs.     Do you want anything? 
He disappears into the bathroom. Matty slips out of bed. She is wearing a silky nightgown. She hurries to the bedroom door. 
MATTY (calling softly to him) I'll go down with you. 
She opens the door and steps into the hall. 
INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL - NIGHT 
Matty looks across the hall toward the open door to the guest room; it is dark. She hurries to the stairs, peering down into the darkness. She starts down the steps. 
INT. FIRST FLOOR HALL - NIGHT 
MATTY'S POV as she comes down the steps. Each shadow, doorway, and alcove threatens to erupt with life. 
Matty reaches the bottom of the stairs and peers around. She starts back along the dark hall of the house just as Edmund comes out of the bedroom upstairs; he is still in his undershorts. He reaches the top of the stairs as Matty moves back along the hall. The alcove under the stairs is in black shadow. Matty is focused on it. 
Just as she reaches it, the lights in the hall snap on. Racine is standing under the stairs, poised to strike the figure in the hall with a heavy wooden plank about two feet long. Matty gasps at the sight, but it is covered by -- 
WALKER (at the top of the stairs) Christ, woman, did you ever hear of turning on the lights? 
Racine doesn't breathe. Matty is frozen in the spot, directly in front of Racine and five feet below Edmund, who now starts down the steps. 
MATTY Edmund... wait! 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                62. 
WALKER (stops) What is it? 
MATTY (whispering up at him) Put on a robe or something. What if Heather wakes up and comes down. 
Edmund frowns, goes back up the stairs. 
WALKER (grumbling) Damn. She's not going to wake up at 2 o'clock in the morning... 
MATTY (O.S.) It is me. 
RACINE It's open. 
Matty comes in.  She peers into the darkness until she sees him. She  locks the door and turns to face him. She is dressed in a pale silk suit and blouse, very carefully put together.  She looks as good as she ever has; she seems to create her own light. 
MATTY Why haven't you answered your phone? 
RACINE You took a chance coming here. Where's Edmund? 
MATTY He's not coming up this weekend. Why haven't you answered? 
RACINE I didn't want to talk.     I just wanted to think. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                66. 
MATTY (nods; then, after a moment) Can I get in with you? 
Racine just stares at her. 
MATTY I don't know what Heather will tell Roz. Maybe nothing. Maybe she'll be embarrassed or afraid. Maybe she'll think she imagined the whole thing. 
RACINE (chuckles without humor) Maybe we all did. 
MATTY We'll know if she does tell. Roz will report to Edmund quick enough. It's exactly what she's always wanted. 
Matty disappears for a moment into the shadows. 
MATTY I've been thinking, too. 
RACINE And what have you got? 
Matty emerges from the darkness and sits on the edge of the bed next to Racine. She looks into his eyes. 
MATTY I think we should give it up. We haven't done anything criminal, yet. 
Racine has been thinking along the same lines.    He stubs out his cigarette. 
RACINE It's not too late to back out. 
MATTY That's right.   I don't think we can do it. 
RACINE What do you mean? 
MATTY Things have already started to go wrong. I feel like we got to the edge and looked over and, well, it was too much. We'll just have to live with that. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org            67. 
She sits down on the bed. 
MATTY I'll divorce him. And     we won't have his money. Part of me     wants it so bad. I'd be lying if I     said I didn't. But it's the worst part    of me, the weakest part. 
She leans back against him. 
MATTY All that matters is that we're together. 
RACINE (after a moment) You don't think I can pull it off. 
MATTY It's not you, it's us. I'm sure I'll make some mistake. 
RACINE That's not what you really mean, is it, Matty? 
MATTY Yes it is. 
RACINE (very calm, flat) No, it isn't. You think he's too much for me. You think I'll fuck it up, get us caught. 
Matty turns toward him. 
MATTY No, darling. Don't talk that way. It's not true. 
Racine studies her face. 
RACINE No? Well that's what I've been thinking. 
MATTY You're wrong. Don't think that, ever! I know you could do it. (moving closer) But all I care about is you. The money doesn't matter. 
RACINE It does in this world, the one we're living in. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                68. 
Matty presses her head against his chest. 
MATTY Why torture ourselves about it? 
Racine laughs; he doesn't know what's funny. 
RACINE When's he coming back? 
MATTY Friday. 
RACINE That'll be it, then. Nothing will stop us. 
Edmund comes slowly down the steps, his gun pointing here, then there in his perfectly steady grip. The thrill of the hunt is in Edmund's eyes. The downstairs is thick with ominous shadows. At the bottom of the steps, he stops and listens again. He moves in two quick steps to the entry hall and looks into the living room and dining room. He seems to hear something at the rear of the house. He turns and moves back along the central hall, very slowly. The alcove under the stairs is pitch black. Edmund points his gun at that approaching space and stops. He listens. The TINKLING of the wind chimes rises weirdly, making it hard for him to hear. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                71. 
Edmund's hand reaches out to the wall.   His fingers find the light switch. He flips it. 
For a second, we are blinded by the glare. In the next Instant, as we see that the space below the stairs is empty, Matty screams from the top of the stairs -- 
MATTY He has a gun! 
Edmund thinks she is warning him.   He spins to look. 
WALKER Where? 
Suddenly, Racine bursts from the hall closet, the wooden plank raised above his head. He brings it down fast toward Edmund's head. 
Edmund reacts instinctively, raising his arm, the arm that holds the gun, to protect himself. The wooden plank smashes down -- half its force taken by Edmund's forearm, half by his head. The gun BLASTS once. 
One small window in the front door shatters and the bullet continues into the night. 
Edmund's revolver slides across the hall floor into a corner. 
Edmund is on the floor, blood pouring from his scalp. But he is coming on like a crazed beast. His glasses askew, but still on his head, he has grasped Racine around the legs. With a powerful lunge, he pulls Racine's legs out. Racine crashes to the hall floor, losing the wooden plank. 
Matty, frozen at the stair railing, cries out. 
Edmund is pulling Racine toward him with all his might, crawling up Racine's body as they both slide on the wood floor. Edmund reaches out one huge hand, and pulls Racine even closer. 
Racine puts his left hand into Edmund's face, his thumb flat against the lens of Edmund's glasses and pushes his head back. The glasses fly away and Racine loses his hold. Edmund comes on. 
Racine's right hand gropes -- gropes -- finds the wooden plank. He swings it up. 
The wooden plank describes a perfect arc into our view, and then out, finding its mark with a HORRIBLE THUD. 
Matty, up the stairs, turns away. 
Racine falls back on the floor. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               72. 
EXT. TRUNK OF WALKER'S CADILLAC - NIGHT 
The trunk is open like a giant maw. A sheet of plastic has been spread across the inside. Edmund's body flops down inside. He has been dressed, his shoes and watch put on. Racine drops the blooded wooden plank beside the body, then throws a blanket over the corpse and slams the trunk. Racine turns to Matty who stands, fully dressed, shaking in the foggy air. 
RACINE The cars at the end of the drive. Spend the fifteen minutes cleaning up inside, then come. You're gonna have to be careful in this fog. (he looks at her) Are you all right? 
She nods. 
RACINE Fifteen minutes. 
Racine gets in the Cadillac and pulls away. 
INT. CADILLAC - ON DESERTED BACKROAD - NIGHT 
WIPE TO: 
The first stretch of Racine's route to "The Breakers" looks different in the dense FOG. Racine has to take it slowly. 
He consults his watch. A branch from one of the overhanging trees looms up abruptly in the windshield, like a grasping arm. Racine flinches. 
EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT 
Racine drives through the silent neighborhood. The  houses are invisible in the FOG, their presence indicated only by an occasional glowing light. Suddenly, a police  SIREN pierces the night, followed by the appearance of a flashing red light on the street behind the Cadillac. 
INT. CADILLAC - NIGHT 
Racine's eyes jump to the rear view mirror and the flashing red light growing in it. Racine pulls over. The police car slows as it reaches the Cadillac, pulls alongside, and then speeds on ahead, SIREN squealing. A light goes on in the house in front of which Racine has stopped. He pulls away. 
EXT. FOUR-LANE INTERSTATE - NIGHT 
The Cadillac pulls up to the interstate from the side street. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 73. 
As on the other night, there is more traffic here.   But it is moving slowly in the FOG. 
INT. CADILLAC - NIGHT 
Racine has to cross two lanes of traffic to go south. He peers out through the misted windshield. He starts to pull out and a sports car appears from nowhere, doing fifty, sitting on his HORN. Racine hits the brakes. As soon as it has passed, there is a lull. Racine fishtails across the road just ahead of a truck and moves south. 
EXT./INT. CADILLAC - INTERSTATE - NIGHT 
The traffic on Racine's side of the interstate has slowed. There's an accident up ahead. The police car that passed Racine is on the scene, but the lone Cop is not enough. Some Passing Motorists have pulled over to help with the wreck and direct traffic. The FOG is aglow with flashing red and white lights and burning flares. A Man signals for Racine to stop. The cars in the opposite lanes are allowed to pass through. Racine keeps his head down. 
A STOCKY TRUCKER comes out of the glowing FOG and walks up to the Cadillac. He leans down into the driver's window. 
STOCKY TRUCKER Hey, man, do you have any flares? 
RACINE Uh -- no.     I don't think so. 
STOCKY TRUCKER (irritated) Could you check your trunk? We got kinda of a mess here. 
No one does. In fact, Racine, Matty and Roz all immediately produce their own packs of cigarettes. The effect is comical and everyone in the room laughs at the group reflex. Roz notices that Lowenstein is not lighting up and offers him one of hers. 
LOWENSTEIN I don't need my own. I'll just breathe the air. 
Roz smiles and tilts her head to blow a stream of smoke toward the ceiling. We TILT UP with it as the white smoke intrudes the clear air and -- 
WIPE TO: 
The same space, thick with smoke, and TILT DOWN to the assembled group, all of whom are focused on Hardin, except for Lowenstein, whose glance dances about the rapt faces. 
HARDIN Everything's in order up to there. The problem comes in the language of the bequest to Heather. It's a technical matter. (MORE) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               83. 
HARDIN (CONT'D) In writing the will, I'm afraid Mr. Racine violated what's known as "the rule against perpetuities. 
Hardin watches Racine, who reacts minutely. 
HARDIN It's a small thing, but it's the law. It forbids an inheritance to be passed down indefinitely for generations. Many general practitioner lawyers don't fully understand it. It doesn't come up much for them, because wills this complex are usually handled by estate departments in larger firms. Handled by lawyers who specialize in this type of work. 
Matty turns a confused look to Roz who returns it sympathetically. Hardin notes it. 
HARDIN I know this is terribly confusing, but if you'll bear with me... I spotted the problem right away, but since Edmund's intent was clear, I thought it in everyone's best interest to try and get the will admitted into probate anyway, even though it was technically incorrect. I knew that a probate judge in Miami would spot the mistake right away. That's all they do all day, they're expert. So I thought I'd bring it up here to Okeelanta County -- since Edmund had the residence here -- and see if I could get lucky with a judge who didn't know estate law quite so well... (dryly, he can't resist) Perhaps find one with the same kind of training as Mr. Racine. 
Racine watches him, his mind racing ahead too fast to bother being insulted. Lowenstein can't help a small, wincing smile. Now Hardin gets to his payoff and there is no amusement in his tone. 
HARDIN Unfortunately, my plan backfired. I ran into a judge who'd had other dealings with Mr. Racine. A Judge Costanza. (MORE) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                84. 
HARDIN (CONT'D) In fact, it seems there were problems with an estate in a case four years ago. Very different problems, it's true. But on a will Mr. Racine prepared. It was quite a mess. Accusations of carelessness, a malpractice suit... (to Racine) I think he called it the Gourson case? 
Racine watches him dully, then concentrates on taking out a cigarette. 
ROZ Once again, Mr. Hardin, you've lost me. 
MATTY Yes, what does all this mean? 
HARDIN It means, I'm afraid, that Edmund's will is invalid. Edmund Walker died interstate, as though there were no will at all. 
Roz looks at Matty with panicky eyes. 
MATTY So... what happens now? 
Hardin looks her over coldly.    He doesn't believe she doesn't know, 
HARDIN You don't know? 
MATTY (irritated) No, I don't. 
HARDIN Perhaps Mr. Racine would like to tell you. 
Racine is recovering. He gives Hardin a quick, ugly look, then turns toward Matty, and speaks quietly. 
RACINE In the state of Florida, when a person dies without a will, and there are no children and no surviving parents, then the spouse inherits everything. 
It seems to take a long moment for Matty to fully digest this. It takes not quite as long for Roz. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                  85. 
Her face goes through several transformations: confusion to disbelief to despair, then on in the direction of outrage. 
Lowenstein's eyes are flashing around at the faces.    He seems genuinely amused. 
MATTY My god.   You mean... it's all mine? 
Hardin is an unconvinced audience.   He nods. 
HARDIN Though that was clearly not your husband's intention. 
MATTY My god. 
HARDIN He intended Heather to benefit -- 
MATTY (looking between Hardin and Roz) Of course, of course, I understand. Of course. 
HARDIN As you can imagine, Mrs. Walkers given the circumstances of Edmund's death, none of this is going to happen... how should I say it... simply. 
Matty seems still in shook. 
MATTY ... Of course... 
EXT. PARKING LOT BEHIND SHILLER, HASTINGS (WEST PALM BEACH) - DAY 
Matty, Racine, Roz, Lowenstein and Hardin stand talking in a little cluster near the building. They say their good-byes with much handshaking. Matty lays a reassuring hand on Roz's arm and kisses her on the cheek. As she breaks from the crowd, Racine walks with her. The others stand talking a little longer. Racine takes off his jacket in the blazing Heat. He is very aware of the little group behind them as he walks with Matty to her Mercedes. When they are out of earshot -- 
RACINE You look good in black. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                86. 
MATTY I've missed you so badly.   I need you. 
GRACE What was this Simpson's story? 
RACINE I don't know... old friend of theirs, good-looking broad. She was just passing through. 
GRACE On her way to Europe? 
Racine shrugs, he doesn't know. 
GRACE The passport people can't find any record of that. 
Lowenstein and Grace look at him a long time. 
GRACE What do you think? About the wife? 
Racine considers a moment. 
RACINE I suppose it's possible. I don't know much about her, except -- (he grins) -- what I've seen. Wouldn't shock me, either way. 
LOWENSTEIN I've got a feeling she's very bad news. Take some incredibly intelligent advice and stay away from her. 
GRACE He's right for once. 
They both get up to leave. Racine watches from the chair. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                90. 
RACINE Well, I'm sorry, guys.    I'm afraid I can't do that. 
GRACE Why not? 
RACINE First of all, did you get a look at her? 
They did. Racine grins. He stands up and comes right up to them. 
RACINE That wouldn't be quite so meaningful, except that today she started coming on to me. And maybe you haven't heard but the lady is about to come into a great deal of money. 
They look at him with some concern. 
RACINE The fact   is, she's invited me out to her place   tonight. And I'm going. And I'll   keep on going as many nights, or days,   or weekends, as she'll have me. 
LOWENSTEIN Ned, that lady may have just killed her husband. 
Racine smiles cheerfully and puts a reassuring arm around Lowenstein's shoulder, leading him to the door. 
RACINE Peter, she's not gonna inherit anything by killing me. 
Lowenstein is out the door now. He looks at Racine in wonder. He shakes his head and goes down the steps. Racine turns, smiling, to Grace, but Oscar is grim. 
GRACE Ned, you've messed up before. You'll mess up again. That's your nature. But they've always been small-time. This might not be. She's trouble, Ned. The real thing. Big-time, major league trouble. Watch yourself. 
Racine reassures his friend with touch and Oscar leaves. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                91. 
INT. WALKER HOUSE - ENTRY HALL - NIGHT 
Matty closes the front door behind Racine and wraps her arms around him. She kisses him hard and long on the mouth, then starts on his neck. He begins to push her away but she clings to him, eating him up. 
MATTY I know. I know. I know you'd probably like to kill me. I know. But please... you can hate me... punish me... hurt me if you want, but don't talk yet. 
She takes his hand and drags him to the steps and leads the way up, her eyes on him always. 
MATTY Please, Ned. 
He lets her lead him up the stairs. 
INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
They lie in bed. The wind chimes TINKLE outside. 
MATTY ... Mary Ann and I left Wheaton together and went to Chicago. We didn't know what we were doing. I got in bad trouble with drugs. Speed. Really bad. I did things... (she looks up at him) Whatever's the evilest thing you can think of me now, I did worse things then. There's nothing lower than the animal I was then. Worse than you can imagine. I thought I would die. I prayed I would... And then a man helped me. He got me clean. He didn't want much in return, either... He was a lawyer and he put me to work in his office. I learned a lot there. One time I even thought I might go to law school. ... That's where I picked up the business about making a will invalid. That happened to him once. I swear I would never have used that if I'd known about your case... I was afraid to tell you, Ned. I knew you wouldn't let me do it. I'm greedy, like you said. I wanted us to have it all. 
She moves up over him and looks into his face. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 92. 
MATTY I don't blame you for thinking I'm bad. I am. I know it. I'd understand if you just cut me off now. If you never trusted me again. You'd probably be smart. But you must believe one thing. I love you. I love you and need you. I want to be with you forever. 
She puts her head on his chest as Racine lights a cigarette. 
RACINE They already think you're involved. 
MATTY I don't care. 
RACINE Great. 
MATTY There's nothing we can do about it now. In a little while we'll either have the money or we won't. It's out of our hands. 
Racine thinks about this awhile.     He exhales a stream of smoke. 
MATTY I fired the housekeeper. We can stay together as long as we want. We're all alone here now. 
Lowenstein nods.   Racine opens the door and goes out of the office. 
INT. WAITING ROOM - DETECTIVE BUREAU - DAY 
Racine walks out of Grace's office. Lowenstein watches him go. Heather is absorbed in a magazine and Roz is distracted with her cigarette. Racine could keep on walking, but instead he walks over to Roz. She jumps when he speaks to her. 
RACINE Hello, Mrs. Kraft. 
She seems confused about how to act toward him.   Heather looks up casually. Racine shakes Roz's hand. 
ROZ Hello, Mr. Racine. 
RACINE How are you making out? 
ROZ We're all right, I guess. 
Racine crouches in front of Heather and smiles at her. 
RACINE You must be Heather. 
She nods.   He shakes her hand. 
RACINE I'm Ned Racine, Heather. I've heard a lot about you. It's nice to meet you. 
Heather nods uncertainly. 
HEATHER Thank you. 
RACINE I'm sorry our town is so hot for your visit. 
HEATHER It sure is. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               97. 
RACINE (smiles, stands) Goodbye. 
ROZ Goodbye. 
Racine walks away.   Heather watches him go.   Roz turns to Heather. 
EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY 
Racine walks down the sidewalk and enters Stella's Coffee Shop. 
INT. STELLA'S COFFEE SHOP - DAY 
As Racine comes in the front door, Stella is leaning over the counter in a gossipy huddle with a Cop and Glenda, the Meter Maid. When Stella notices Racine, she breaks off suddenly and moves away. The Cop and Glenda see Racine and go back to their food with great deliberateness. Racine takes all this in and settles at the other end of the counter. 
STELLA (too boisterous) Hi, Racine. How you doing today? 
RACINE I'm fine, Stella. I'm fine.    What's the latest? Any hot news? 
STELLA Nothing much doing. What'll it be? 
RACINE What's the special? 
STELLA Veal outlets. 
RACINE What day'd you cook 'em? 
STELLA They're fresh this month. 
Racine signals for her to bring it on.   He swivels around and looks out at the Court House. 
WIPE TO: 
LATER. 
Same shot. Lowenstein appears on the sidewalk across the street. He crosses over to Stella's and comes in. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                98. 
He spots Racine and comes over to the counter with a light dance-walk, breaking into actual dance only as he Pirouettes before landing in the stool beside Racine. Racine is almost done with his lunch. 
LOWENSTEIN (to Stella) The usual, my sweet. 
STELLA (O.S.) Two ice teas for Fred Astaire. 
Lowenstein looks at Racine and smiles. 
LOWENSTEIN Are you ready to hear something wild? 
RACINE I don't know. I may have had my share for the day. 
LOWENSTEIN No, this is right up your alley. 
Stella puts the two ice teas in front of Lowenstein. Lowenstein has to give her a look before she backs away. Lowenstein leans in confidentially toward Racine. 
LOWENSTEIN Little Heather comes out onto the back porch, and this dude is out there with her aunt, see? And he's turned away with his pants or shorts or whatever dropped, so he's mooning the little girl, right. And he and your friend are going at something which Heather couldn't quite figure out. 
Lowenstein begins to shake with laughter; he almost falls off the stool. Racine is confused. Lowenstein recovers his balance and lowers his voice again. There are tears in his eyes. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                102. 
EXT. THE MOON AND THE OCEAN - NIGHT 
It's the middle of the night. Bright under a full moon. And very quiet. The surf can be heard LAPPING at the beach. And then we hear HUMMING. 
EXT. THE PIER - NIGHT 
No sign of life. Still the HUMMING; it's a Broadway show tune. 
EXT. END OF THE PIER - NIGHT 
Lowenstein is there, all alone, silhouetted in the moonlight. He uses the rail like a ballet bar, returning to it each time he finishes a small combination of dance steps. The moves are not extravagant, there is not highkicking. Just a nice, smooth little combination that Lowenstein is repeating, again and again. 
He HUMS his own accompaniment. Then, softly at first, from the distance, comes the THUMPING of running shoes on old wood. It grows as Lowenstein completes another repetition. When the THUMPING has gotten close, it slows, then stops raggedly. Lowenstein looks that way. 
RACINE (O.S.) (out of breath) Peter? 
LOWENSTEIN Hi, Ned. 
Racine walks up, dripping sweat, already extracting his cigarettes from his shorts. 
RACINE What are you doing here? 
LOWENSTEIN I've been looking for you. 
RACINE Yeah? 
LOWENSTEIN Yeah.    You always run this late? 
RACINE Nah. I'm going to Miami tomorrow. I'm not gonna have time. 
LOWENSTEIN What's in Miami? 
RACINE I'm closing this real estate deal I've been working on. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                103. 
Lowenstein nods and turns to lean over the rail. Racine offers him a cigarette. Lowenstein accepts and Racine lights both of theirs. Lowenstein glances at Racine's pack as Racine puts it away. 
LOWENSTEIN You're some kind of health nut. (Racine smiles) Matty Walker smokes that same brand. I noticed that. 
RACINE Is this gonna be one of those conversations? Maybe I should have my lawyer present. 
LOWENSTEIN Buddy, your lawyer is present. 
They look at the ocean. 
LOWENSTEIN You know, that Edmund Walker was a bad guy. The more I find out about him, the happier I am he's dead. I figure it's a positive thing for the world. 
RACINE You're not known for being a hardliner. 
LOWENSTEIN Mmm. I have my own standards. I try to keep them private. (he looks at his cigarette) As far as I'm concerned, I don't care who killed him. And I don't care who gets rich because of it. (shakes his head) But Oscar, Oscar's not like that. His whole life is based on doing the right thing. He's the only person I know like that. Sometimes it's a real pain in the ass. Even for him. 
Lowenstein glances at Racine, but only for a moment. 
LOWENSTEIN Oscar's unhappy right now. He's in pain. 
RACINE Why is that? 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                104. 
LOWENSTEIN Because he likes you. He likes you even better than I do. (long pause) That's why he's been busting his butt trying to locate this Mary Ann Simpson. They finally found her place in Miami yesterday, but the woman herself was gone... looked like she left in a hurry. (a beat) Oscar thought any story she could tell might help you. He thinks you need help. 
Racine turns around, drapes his arms back along the rail and lets his head loll, like a tired runner. 
LOWENSTEIN Someone's putting you in deep trouble, my friend. From about three thirty to five AM on the night Walker was killed, someone called your hotel room repeatedly. The hotel didn't want to put them through, but whoever was calling convinced them it was an emergency. The phone rang and rang, but you didn't answer. 
Racine looks at him. 
LOWENSTEIN Don't say anything. Save it for some Other time. It gets worse. (he stamps out his butt) Now someone's trying to give us Edmund's glasses. We don't know who. We don't know what the glasses will tell us. But our negotiations are continuing. 
Lowenstein steps away, toward the street. He looks sad. 
LOWENSTEIN I wish I knew what to tell you, Ned. But I don't have any good ideas. 
He turns and walks away. 
LOWENSTEIN I'll see ya. 
Racine watches him go. He takes out his pack of cigarettes and extracts one. He stares at the pack in his hand. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                105. 
EXT. FRONT TERRACE - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT 
The house is dark. Racine tries the door a last time. (He's still in his sweaty running clothes.) No good. No one here. Racine peers inside one final time. He is looking through the new glass in the same little window shot out by Edmund's gun. The wind chimes TINKLE loudly. 
EXT. INTERSTATE 95 - DAY 
Racine's Stingray whips south in the morning light. 
BEVERLY Hey, are you all right? 
Racine stops for a moment and looks at her. He smiles and goes out. 
INT. COUNTY JAIL - VISITING ROOM - DAY 
Teddy Laursen sits across the table from Racine. Teddy, too, looks a little ragged. Nervous. 
TEDDY I don't know. It's a thing in Lauderdale. Something must've gone wrong, but they're not telling me. I'm a little worried. 
RACINE I'll find out. 
TEDDY No, no. That's not why I called you. In fact, I got me another lawyer. 
Racine watches him. 
TEDDY I think it would be better. You know Schlisgal. 
RACINE (nods, confused) He's good. 
Teddy looks around nervously. Racine waits. 
TEDDY This broad came to me last week. A real looker. She said you told her how to reach me, I figured you musta, she knew all about it. (Racine nods) She said you wanted another one. 
Teddy searches Racine's face, trying to see if the story was true. He's not surprised that it's not. 
TEDDY Yeah, I was afraid of that. But I'm a slow thinker. (MORE) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org             109. 
TEDDY (CONT'D) (lowers his voice even more) She had me show her how to rig it to a door, with a little delay. Does any of this mean anything to you? 
Racine looks at him blankly. 
TEDDY Then I'm glad I told you. Watch your step. 
RACINE Thanks, Teddy. 
Racine pushes his chair back. Teddy seems torn about saying more. He forces himself to -- 
TEDDY Racine... Don't thank me yet. These guys here, they've been asking me about The Breakers. (reads Racine's look) I haven't told 'em shit. But I don't like the look on their faces. 
Racine gets up. 
INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY 
Racine listens to the endless ringing on the other end of his call and slowly hangs up. The phone rings in the reception room and Beverly picks it up, then hits the hold button. 
BEVERLY (yells) Ned. It's Mrs. Walker. Do you want her? 
RACINE Yeah. (he picks up) Hello. 
MATTY (filtered throughout) Hello, Ned. Can we talk? 
Racine swivels in his chair so that he can see Beverly in the reception room. Beverly is just replacing the receiver on the hook and for a moment, she gives Racine a strange, ambivalent look. Racine watches her as she goes back to work and speaks quietly into the phone. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org         110. 
RACINE Okay. Where are you? 
MATTY I'm in Miami. I've been running around like crazy and I could reach you before I left. 
(a pause) Ned, everything's going to be all right. 
RACINE Tell me. 
MATTY I've got the money. I've taken it and sent it somewhere safe. It's all ours now. (Racine says nothing) But that's not the best part. 
RACINE What's the best part? 
MATTY The glasses. I got them back. That is, they should be ours by now. Betty had them. She wanted money. That's why I had to come down here. She made it all very difficult, but I think it worked out. 
RACINE Do you have them? 
MATTY No. She wouldn't do that. She's putting them in the boathouse. In the top drawer of the dresser in the boathouse. They should be there now, if she's kept up her end. 
RACINE Yes. 
MATTY I think you'd better get them right away. I don't trust her. 
RACINE In the boathouse. 
MATTY That's right. The top drawer of the dresser. Oh. Ned, we're going to be all right. I'll leave here as soon (MORE) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              111. 
MATTY (CONT'D) as I can. I should be there by seven- thirty. I can't wait to see you, darling. We've made it. 
Racine is silent. 
MATTY Are you all right? 
RACINE I could see. 
Matty comes up the steps and puts her arms around him. She closes her eyes as she hugs him. They are one figure melded in the gloom. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               114. 
MATTY It's all ours now, Ned. We could leave tonight if we wanted. It's over. 
RACINE Yes, it is. 
MATTY (voice changed) What's this --? 
Suddenly she backs away from him, down the steps, her white dress moving back into the bright moonlight from the shadow of the gazebo. She looks up at Racine. 
RACINE It's Edmund's gun. You remember it, don't you? 
He has it in his hand now. He looks it over casually, but the barrel is toward her. 
MATTY What is it, Ned? What's happened? 
RACINE I think you know. 
MATTY No.   I swear to you, I don't! 
RACINE It's the glasses, Matty. 
MATTY Weren't they there? Didn't she bring them? 
RACINE I didn't see them. 
MATTY She promised she'd bring them. 
RACINE Maybe I missed them. The way you missed them that night. 
MATTY Ned, I don't know what you think, but you're wrong. I haven't done anything to hurt you. I love you. You've got to believe me. 
RACINE Keep talking, Matty. Experience shows I can be convinced of anything. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                115. 
EXT. STREET NEAR WALKER PLACE - NIGHT 
Grace's car moves up the street past the gated drives. 
EXT. BACK LAWN - NIGHT 
Racine is at the bottom of the gazebo steps now. Matty has backed away, toward the Waterway. 
MATTY I did arrange to meet you. But, Ned, it all changed. You changed it. I fell in love with you. I didn't plan that... 
Racine laughs, short and bitterly. 
RACINE You never quit, do you? You just keep on coming. 
MATTY How can I prove it to you? What can I say? 
RACINE The glasses, Matty. Why don't you go down there and get them? 
Matty is silent. She starts to speak, but nothing comes out. Now there is real fear in her eyes. 
MATTY But you said they weren't there. 
RACINE I said I didn't see them. 
EXT. DRIVEWAY - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT 
Grace's car moves down the drive. 
EXT. BACK LAWN - NIGHT 
Racine has moved closer to Matty, away from the house. They are only six feet apart. Tears are now rolling down Matty's cheeks. 
MATTY I'll go, Ned. I'll go and look for them. 
She turns and starts walking toward the ocean. Just as she is about to disappear into the shadows, she turns back to him. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                116. 
MATTY Ned... no matter what you think, I do love you. 
AT THE CORNER OF THE HOUSE 
Grace has gotten out of his car. He starts toward the front door, but sees Racine out on the lawn. He heads out in that direction, but stops as Racine steps into a bright spot of moonlit lawn and the gun's shiny silverplate glints in the light. The gun is pointed at the retreating Matty. 
Grace pulls his own gun from a shoulder holster and raises it. He is about to call out, when Matty disappears completely in the gloom. Racine lowers the revolver wearily and stares out toward the boathouse. Grace lowers his gun and looks out there too. He moves slowly forward. 
Close on Racine's face. It's changing now. It's not just that he's very tired. The hardness is going out of his look. As the seconds tick by, and Matty does not reappear, he begins to lose faith in his view of the world. He begins to be afraid. Afraid for Matty. Even now. 
A sudden breeze starts the wind chimes TINKLING loudly. 
RACINE No, Matty! Stop! Don't go in! Matty. 
