"BONNIE & CLYDE" 
by 
David Newman & Robert Benton 
FADE IN. 
INT. BEDROOM.  CLOSE-UP OF BONNIE PARKER.  DAY 
Blonde, somewhat fragile, intelligent in expression.  She is putting on make-up with intense concentration and appreciation, applying lipstick and eye make-up.  As the camera slowly pulls back from the closeup we see that we have been looking into a mirror.  She is standing before the full-length mirror in her bedroom doing her make-up.  She overdoes it in the style of the time: rosebud mouth and so forth.  As the film progresses her make-up will be refined until, at the end, there is none. 
The camera pulls back and continues to move very slowly throughout the first part of this scene.  As the camera continues to move away, we see, by degrees, that BONNIE is naked.  Her nudity is never blatantly revealed to the audience, but implied.  That is, she should be "covered" in various ways from the camera's P.O.V., but the audience must be aware of her exposure to CLYDE later in the scene.  This is the only time in the film that she will ever be this exposed, in all senses of the word, to the audience.  Her attitude and appraisal of herself here are touched with narcissism. 
The bedroom itself is a second-story bedroom in a lower- class frame house in West Dallas, Texas.  The neighborhood is low income.  Though the room reveals its shabby surroundings, it also reveals an attempt by BONNIE to fix it up.  Small and corny objets d'art are all over the tops of the bureaus, vanity tables, etc. (Little glass figurines and porcelain statuettes and the like.) 
BONNIE finishes admiring herself.  She walks from the mirror and moves slowly across the room, the camera moving with her, until she reaches the screened window on the opposite wall.  The shade is up.  There are no curtains.  She looks out the window, looking down, and the camera looks down with her. 
EXT. BEDROOM.  BONNIE'S P.O.V.  DAY. 
Over her shoulder, we see the driveway leading to the garage connected to the house.  There is an old car parked in the driveway, its windows open.  We see a man walking up the driveway, somewhat furtively.  He is a rather dapper fellow, dressed in a dark suit with a vest, a white collar, and a straw boater.  It is CLYDE BARROW.  Obviously, he is about to steal the car.  He looks it over, checking around him to make sure no passers-by are coming.  He peers inside the front window to see if the keys are in the ignition.  He studies the dashboard.  BONNIE continues watching, silently. Finally she calls out. 
BONNIE Hey, boy!  What you doin' with my mama's car? 
EXT. DRIVEWAY.  DAY. 
CLYDE, startled, jumps and looks to see who has caught him. Obviously frightened, he looks up and his face freezes at what he sees. 
EXT. WINDOW.  CLYDE'S P.O.V.  DAY. 
We now see what he is looking at: at the open window, revealed from the waist up, is the naked BONNIE.  She looks down, an impudent half-smile on her face.  She doesn't move or make any attempt to cover herself. 
EXT. CLOSE-UP OF CLYDE - DAY - 
-- whose face changes from astonishment to an answering smile of impudence.  (Seeing what he has, he realizes that this girl is clearly not going to scream for the police. Already they are in a little game instigated by BONNIE, sizing each other up, competing in a kind of playful arrogance.  Before they speak, they have become coconspirators.) 
Close-up of BONNIE, still smiling.  Finally she speaks. 
BONNIE Wait there! 
INT. BEDROOM.  DAY. 
Running from the window, she flings open a closet and grabs a dress, and shoes.  She slips on the shoes, and flings the dress on, running out the door as she does.  The camera tracks with her, moving as fast.  As she runs down the stairs she buttons up the dress. 
EXT. DRIVEWAY.  DAY. 
She flies out the door, slamming it behind her, runs off the porch (all this has been one continuous movement since she left the window, in great haste) and continues quickly into the driveway.  Four feet away from CLYDE, she stops on a dime.  They stand there, looking at each other, smiling the same challenge.  For a few seconds, no one speaks, then: 
BONNIE (putting her on) Ain't you ashamed?  Tryin' to steal an old lady's automobile. 
CLYDE (with the same put-on) I been thinkin' about buyin' me one. 
BONNIE Bull.  You ain't got money for dinner, let alone buy no car. 
CLYDE (still the battle of wits going on) Now I got enough money for cokes, and since it don't look like you're gonna invite me inside-- 
BONNIE You'd steal the dining room table if I did. 
CLYDE (he moves from his spot) Come to town with me, then.  How'd that be? 
BONNIE (starting to walk onto the sidewalk) Goin' to work anyway. 
EXT. STREET.  MOVING SHOT.  DAY. 
The camera tracks.  It is a hot Texas afternoon, all white light and glare.  As they walk the block to town in this scene, their manner of mutual impudence is still pervading. 
CLYDE Goin' to work, huh?  What do you do? 
BONNIE None of your business. 
CLYDE (pretending to give it serious thought) I bet you're a...movie star! (thinks) No...A lady mechanic?...No...A maid?-- 
BONNIE (really offended by that) What do you think I am? 
CLYDE (right on the nose) A waitress. 
The camera remains just behind BONNIE's shoulder so that throughout the following scene we have BONNIE in the picture, looking at what we look at. 
CLYDE goes into the little store.  We remain outside with BONNIE watching.  For a minute nothing happens.  We can barely see what is going on in the store.  Then CLYDE comes out, walking slowly.  In one hand he holds the gun, in the other a fistful of money.  He gets halfway, to BONNIE and smiles broadly at her, a smile of charm and personality. She smiles back.  The moment is intense, as if a spark has jumped from one to the other.  Their relationship, which began the minute BONNIE spotted him in the driveway, has now really begun.  CLYDE has shown his stuff and BONNIE is "turned on." 
Suddenly the old man who runs the grocery store comes running out into the street, completely dumbfounded.  He stands there and says nothing, yet his mouth moves in silent protest.  CLYDE points the gun above him and fires.  It is the first loud noise in the film thus far and it should be a shock.  The old man, terrified, runs back into the store as fast as he can, CLYDE quickly grabs BONNIE's hand.  The camera swings with them as they turn and begin to run down the street.  A few yards and the stores disappear entirely. The landscape turns into that arid, flat and unrelieved western plain that begins where the town ends. 
EXT. STORE.  AT THE EDGE OF TOWN.  DAY. 
A car is parked at the back of the store.  As soon as they reach it, CLYDE motions and BONNIE gets in.  CLYDE runs to the front, lifts up the hood and crosses the wires to make it start.  As he stands back, BONNIE calls to him: 
BONNIE Hey, what's your name, anyway? 
CLYDE (he slams the hood) Clyde Barrow. 
He runs over to the door, opens it, shoves her over, and starts up the engine.  The entire sequence is played at an incredible rapid pace. 
BONNIE (loud, to make herself heard over the gunning motor) Hi, I'm Bonnie Parker.  Please to meet you. 
EXT. ROAD.  DAY. 
VROOM!  The car zooms off down the road, doing 90.  The fast country breakdown music starts up on the sound track, going just as fast as the car. 
EXT. CAR.  DAY. 
The car, still speeding, further down the road.  We zoom down and look in the rear window.  CLYDE is driving, we see from behind.  BONNIE is all over him, biting his ear, ruffling his hair, running her hands all over him--in short, making passionate love to him while he drives.  The thrill of the robbery and the escape has turned her on sexually. 
EXT. CAR.  ANOTHER ANGLE.  DAY. 
The camera pulls back and above the car.  The car starts to go crazy in a comical fashion, manifesting to the audience just what is happening to the driver controlling it.  The car swerves all over the road.  The car comes to a sudden halt.  The car starts again.  It swerves this time almost right off the road before it straightens out.  It jumps and jerks.  Another car comes down the road the other way and CLYDE's car swerves so much as to make the other guy drive right off the road into the dirt.  It is almost Mack Sennett stuff, but not quite that much. 
INT. CAR.  BONNIE AND CLYDE.  DAY. 
BONNIE grabs the wheel and turns it sharply. 
EXT. CAR.  DAY. 
It hairpins off the road onto a shoulder beneath some trees. 
INT. CAR.  BONNIE AND CLYDE.  DAY. 
--still settling to a stop.  BONNIE and CLYDE appear to be necking heavily now, punctuated by BONNIE's squeals of passion as she squirms and hops about like a flea, trying to get to CLYDE.  The floor gear-shift is keeping their bodies apart, however.  In exasperation, BONNIE takes the gear shift and shoves it forward out of their way.  She plunges onto CLYDE, burying him from view. 
BONNIE (kissing, biting) ...You ready?... 
CLYDE (muffled, laughing) ...Hey, wait... 
BONNIE (giggling herself) Aren't you ready?  Well, get ready! 
BONNIE has obviously touched him.  With savage coquetry she tears into her clothes and his. 
BONNIE (muffled) C'mon, honey, c'mon, boy...let's go...let's... 
CLYDE (muffled) Hey...hey, wait a minute...quit that now, cut it out. (sharply) I said, cut it out! 
He shoves her rudely away, slamming her into the far car door.  Suddenly it looks as if they've been fighting.  Both unbuttoned and unglued, they stare silently at one another, breathing heavily.  CLYDE gets out of the car, clearly shaken.  Despite the fact that he may have encountered this situation many times before, it's one that no twenty-one- year-old boy in 1932 is sophisticated enough to dismiss easily with bravado. 
BONNIE remains seated in the car.  She seems terribly vulnerable.  She fumbles about for a cigarette, too confused to figure out what didn't happen.  CLYDE turns back and reaches through the car window from the driver's side, lighting it for her.  BONNIE casts CLYDE a fishy stare, then accepts the light. 
CLYDE (trying to be casual, even insouciant) Look, I don't do that.  It's not that I can't-- (his voice cracks, the match burns his fingers, and he bangs his head onto roof of car, and he goes right on) --it's just that I don't see no percentage in it. (MORE) 
CLYDE (CONT'D) I mean there's nothin' wrong with me, I don't like boys. 
BONNIE doesn't know what she thinks, and CLYDE is trying to gauge her reaction--whether she feels rejected or repelled. In fact, it's both--along with a little latent fascination. 
BONNIE (finally, spitting out smoke) Boy...boy...boy... 
CLYDE (a little annoyed) Boy, what? 
BONNIE Your advertising is dandy.  Folks'd just never guess you don't have a thing to sell. (a little afraid) You better take me home, now. 
CLYDE (getting back into car) Wait! 
BONNIE Don't touch me! 
She gets out of car, leaving CLYDE draped across the front seat, reaching after her. 
CLYDE (furious) What?  What?? 
In a rage, he goes behind the partition, grabs the teller and pushes him ahead with the gun.  CLYDE is fuming.  He forces the teller out the front door. 
EXT. BANK #1.  DAY. 
--showing BONNIE in the car.  She is terrified as she sees CLYDE and the TELLER coming at her.  She doesn't understand what is happening. 
CLYDE (shoving the teller forward) Tell her!  Tell her! 
TELLER (acting like a man who has had his sleep interrupted by lunatics) As I was tellin' this gentleman, our bank failed last month and ain't no money in it.  I sure am sorry. 
BONNIE's reaction is one of hysterical relief and appreciation of what's funny in the situation.  She laughs uproariously, she can't stop laughing.  This makes CLYDE madder than ever.  He shoves the teller to the ground. 
INT. CAR.  DAY. 
Completely humiliated, CLYDE gets in the car, shoving BONNIE over.  She is still laughing.  BONNIE starts the car.  CLYDE points his gun out the window. 
Close shot.  Bank window--whereon is lettered: ASSETS-$70,000. 
INT. CAR.  CLYDE AND BONNIE.  DAY. 
Angle to include bank window.  CLYDE aims and puts a bullet through each of the zeros.  We see each zero shot through. Then the entire window hangs there for a second and suddenly crashes.  On the soundtrack, BONNIE's laughter. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CAR.  DAY. 
--still driving.  BONNIE has still not fully recovered from her mirth, but is quieting down because she sees that CLYDE is really mad and can't be pushed too far. 
CLYDE (steaming) We got $1.98 and you're laughin'. 
She tries to stop. 
EXT. STREET.  DAY. 
The car pulls down another street of shops in another little hick town.  A grocery store ahead. 
INT. CAR. 
CLYDE Keep it running. 
INT. GROCERY STORE.  DAY. 
There is an old CLERK behind the counter, and standing in the b.g., almost out of our vision, is a BUTCHER--an enormous giant of a man.  CLYDE steps up to the counter. 
CLYDE Give me a loaf of bread, a dozen eggs and a quart of milk. 
The CLERK gets the order and puts it in a bag.  He rings open the cash register preparatory to asking CLYDE for the money.  CLYDE pulls his gun. 
CLYDE This is a stickup.  I'll take all the money in that drawer now. 
He reaches over the counter into the cash drawer and grabs the bills.  He smiles.  Suddenly looming beside CLYDE is the BUTCHER, brandishing a meat cleaver.  Camera looks up at this formidable sight as the cleaver comes crashing down, missing CLYDE and sticking in the wooden counter.  He grabs CLYDE around the chest in a bear hug and actually lifts him off the ground.  The struggle is in silence.  CLYDE is terrified, fighting wildly to get free.  The gun in CLYDE's hand is pinned, because the man has CLYDE's arm pinned to his thigh.  CLYDE tries to raise the barrel at an upward angle to shoot, finally he is able to do so.  He fires.  The bullet enters the BUTCHER's stomach.  The BUTCHER screams, but reacts like a wounded animal, more furious than ever. He still holds CLYDE in a fierce hug, staggering around the store, knocking into shelves and spilling cans.  CLYDE is hysterical with fear.  He shoots the BUTCHER again.  The BUTCHER falls to his knees, but still he doesn't release CLYDE.  In a panic, CLYDE drags the man to the door, trying to get out. 
EXT. GROCERY STORE.  DAY. 
BONNIE sees CLYDE and the BUTCHER holding his legs.  She is terrified.  CLYDE drags him out on the street.  The BUTCHER won't let go.  CLYDE, in real panic, aims the gun at his head and fires.  Click.  Out of bullets.  In blind fury, he pistol-whips the BUTCHER's head with two terrific swipes. Finally the BUTCHER lets go.  Hysterical, CLYDE jumps away and leaps into the car on the other side.  BONNIE still at the wheel. 
CLYDE Get the hell out of here! 
They drive-off at top speed. 
INT. CAR.  DAY. 
CLYDE is shaken.  He speaks haltingly, panting; trying to get control of himself. 
CLYDE Damn him, that big son of a bitch... He tried to kill me... I ain't got eyes in back of my head... I didn't want to hurt him.  It wasn't a real robbery... Some food and a little bit of dough.  I'm not against him. Damn! 
EXT. SPEEDING CAR.  DAY. 
The car is speeding down an open road.  Suddenly it begins to buck and cough.  There is something wrong with the motor. 
CLOSE SHOT.  C.W. MOSS.  EXT. FILLING STATION. 
His cherubic cheeks are puffed up as he blows into the fuel lines of CLYDE's car.  There is a distinctly flat sound. 
BONNIE Mr. C.W. Moss? 
C.W. (anxious to prove himself) Sure, I could.  Sure I could.  I ain't scared, if that's what you think. 
CLYDE Prove it. 
C.W. walks away from the car.  Camera remains where it was. We see him walk inside the gas station office, open the cash drawer, close it and come out.  He emerges with a fistful of money.  He walks over to BONNIE's window, sticks his hand inside and drops the money on her lap.  We see the bills flutter down.  Not a word is spoken.  BONNIE moves over into the middle.  C.W. opens the door and gets in behind the wheel.  For a moment we see them all sitting there, each smiling their little smile.  CLYDE starts to hum a hillbilly tune quietly.  The sound track picks it up (banjo and violin, etc.) and as the music swells, they drive off down the road. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM.  DAY. 
A small room with a bed.  On it, covered by a sheet which humps like a mountain over his enormous stomach, is the BUTCHER.  His head is propped up on a pillow and he sips a liquid through a bent glass straw.  Camera is on the left side of the head of the bed, seeing the BUTCHER in a three- quarter profile.  On the opposite side of the bed stands a uniformed patrolman who is in the act of flashing mug-shot photos for the BUTCHER to identify his assailant.  The lawman holds a stack of them in front of them, swiftly changing the cards like a grade-school teacher with her flash cards.  At each picture, the BUTCHER grunts negatively and goes on sipping from his glass straw.  One picture, two, three go by.  The fourth picture is a mug shot of CLYDE. Again the BUTCHER grunts 'no,' without hesitation.  As the next picture comes into view, we 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. MOTEL.  NIGHT. 
--on a painted wooden sign, lit by one attached light, which reads: "MOTOR COURT". 
INT. ROOM IN MOTOR COURT.  NIGHT. 
--in darkness.  Camera is close on BONNIE.  She is awake and restless.  O.S. comes the measured snoring that we will think comes from CLYDE.  BONNIE raises up and kneels over Clyde.  She needs him.  Clyde seems to snore on.  Camera drops between them and we see that the snoring actually comes from C.W.  BONNIE drops back on her pillow.  We cut close on CLYDE.  He is awake. 
INT. CAFE.  DAY. 
BONNIE, CLYDE and C.W. seated in a booth in a cafe.  The Waitress brings the food and serves everybody.  We see C.W. With great concentration, as he does everything by relating to the immediate action he happens to be involved with, he takes the sugar shaker and begins methodically sprinkling sugar over all his food.  He sugars the meat, the beans, and the beets.  BONNIE and CLYDE watch this performance with first, amazement and second, disgust.  They can't believe what they see. 
BONNIE (incredulously) C.W., what are you doing?  Why do you do that? 
C.W. (beginning to eat it) Why not? 
BONNIE It's just disgusting, that's why. 
C.W. (chewing) Not to me it ain't. 
BONNIE But...but it makes everything sweet! 
C.W. Yeah, I know. 
With a resigned expression, BONNIE turns away and begins to eat.  Suddenly a look of consternation crosses C.W.'s face. 
C.W. Damn!  No mayonnaise! 
He gets up and goes down to the counter on the other end of the restaurant, out of our vision, apparently planning to put mayonnaise over the sugar.  The minute he is out of earshot, BONNIE gets CLYDE's attention. 
BONNIE Clyde, why does he have to stay in the same room as us? 
CLYDE seems not to have heard the question.  He takes up the sugar shaker and spreads a thin field of sugar on the dark table surface.  He will sketch his plan in the sugar. 
CLYDE Lemme show you about tomorrow. 
BONNIE Why? 
CLYDE Now C.W.'ll be waitin' right outside in the car.  Here is the teller's cage.  Four of them and over here the desks and what have you... 
BONNIE Why, Clyde... 
CLYDE Hmmm?? 
BONNIE In the same room with us? 
CLYDE Hell, where else?  Ain't gonna spread out all over the state... 
The harshness of his tone concerns him and he recovers with a smile. 
CLYDE (continuing) Not yet, anyway.  Now, the door to the bank is here now.  You cover me from there. 
BONNIE (takes his hand to her face) Just that I love you so much. 
CLYDE You're the best damn girl in Texas. 
C.W. comes back with the mayonnaise; looks at the table. 
C.W. Hey, you spilled the sugar. 
Three shot. 
The car shoots off down the road, doing ninety.  Police are firing at the escaping car; BONNIE and CLYDE are shooting out the back window; C.W. is almost having a nervous breakdown at the wheel. 
EXT. STREET.  A MOVIE HOUSE.  DAY. 
A police car that had been chasing CLYDE and BONNIE's car comes down the street.  It is obvious that the cops have lost them.  They are searching the street for a sign of CLYDE's car.  They pass a movie house whose marquee reads: "GOLDDIGGERS OF 1933."  They slow for a moment, decide that is not a probable place to look.  They drive off. 
INT. MOVIE HOUSE.  WIDE ACROSS AUDIENCE AT SCREEN. 
The opening musical sequence of "Golddiggers" is on the screen.  Ginger Rogers sings "We're In The Money."  Among the audience we cannot make out our three people.  It is a small audience and thinly dispersed. 
Tight shot at audience.  Camera pans the audience while on the track we hear the music of the song.  First of our group who becomes visible is C.W.  He is staring at the screen and eating bites from a candy bar in each hand.  Camera pans further and we see that CLYDE is in the row behind C.W. and a few seats to one side.  CLYDE is nervous and keeps watching the entrance doors.  He is in a rage.  He shifts in his seat. 
CLYDE Boy, you gotta be poor in the head. You...!  Count of you I killed a man.  Murder...you too. 
Shot from behind CLYDE.  Shooting toward screen. 
CLYDE (continuing) Dumb ass stupid. 
C.W. turns to CLYDE and nods agreement.  This infuriates CLYDE even more.  He slaps the back of C.W.'s head. 
CLYDE Ever do a dumb thing like that again, I'll kill you boy! 
Angle at BONNIE.  She has been watching the movie; is now disturbed by the noise.  She turns back to CLYDE from her seat on the aisle. 
BONNIE Ssshh!  If you boys want to talk why don't you go outside? 
She smiles at her joke and turns back to the screen to the movie which she is obviously enjoying enormously. 
INT. CHEAP MOTEL BATHROOM.  CLOSE-UP BONNIE.  DAY. 
On the right of the screen, f.g., BONNIE stands at the sink fixing her make-up in the mirror.  The make-up has become more conservative.  On the left, further back, is a bathtub and in it sits C.W.  His head and knees peek over the gray, soapy water.  He is engaged with his usual single-minded concentration, in washing himself, carefully scrubbing his arms, not a thought in his head.  BONNIE finishes her make- up and regards herself quizzically, tilting her head to look at herself at different angles.  She is smoking a cigarette, and really, studying herself. 
BONNIE What do you think of me, C.W.? 
C.W. Uh...well, you're just fine, I guess.  Uh, well, course you're a real good shot...and...uh...well, sometimes you look pretty as a painting. 
Camera stays with BONNIE during all this, watching her look at herself as she listens to C.W.'s evaluation.  She has a narcissistic concern at the moment and as she hears him enumerate her values, she thinks about each in turn and decides yes, that's true. 
C.W. Hey, uh, Bonnie...could you get me that washrag there? 
Responding automatically, BONNIE turns and walks to a towel rack, pulls the washcloth off and starts toward C.W. when suddenly she stops with a smile on her face and a sudden motion.  Teasingly, she holds the washcloth out at arm's length. 
BONNIE (coyly) Why'nt you come get it? 
C.W. (not even realizing what's on her mind) Huh? 
BONNIE (wiggling the washcloth like a bull-fighter's cape) Whyn't you come get it, C.W.? 
Suddenly C.W. looks mortally embarrassed as he realizes what that would entail. 
C.W. Aw, Bonnie, come on, gimme it. 
BONNIE tries another tack.  She begins sauntering over slowly, teasingly, still holding out the treasured washcloth. 
BONNIE (pertly) All right, I'll bring it myself. 
As she moves closer to the tub, C.W. realizes that she will be able to peer down into the tub and see him and he frantically reaches up with one hand and yanks the washcloth into the tub, causing a great splash.  BONNIE, somewhat the victim of the splash, jumps back and away.  Recovering her composure, she looks at C.W. who is slunk down in the tub like a gross September Morn.  She has tried him and he has failed; she realizes now that he was no choice for her; no real man, even if he might perform sexually.  He is a lump. This irritates her; his very presence is demeaning to herself and CLYDE. 
BONNIE (irritated with herself for even thinking of such a thing) You simpleton, what would you do if we just pulled out some night while you was asleep? 
C.W. (trying to give the right answer, but obviously faking it) Oh, I wouldn't know what to do. But you wouldn't do that.  You couldn't now. 
BONNIE realizes, with some weariness, the inevitable truth of what he's said; thus resigned, she says patronizingly: 
BONNIE That's right, C.W.  We'll always be around to take care of you. 
Pointedly, she throws her cigarette in his bath-water, "Sssssssssss."  She turns and leaves the bathroom, slamming the door behind her. 
INT. BEDROOM. 
Camera goes with her into the connecting bedroom.  CLYDE is sitting on the edge of the bed cleaning the guns and oiling them.  He is quiet and preoccupied and takes no note of BONNIE's present condition.  The moment she enters, he looks up. 
CLYDE (quietly) Bonnie, I want to talk to you.  Sit down. 
BONNIE sits, a little taken off balance by his serious manner.  But she listens quietly. 
Close-up.  BONNIE.  Day--expressionless, looking it all over. 
EXT. CABIN. 
BUCK and CLYDE notice nothing of this.  BUCK bounds over to BONNIE, all jollity. 
BUCK (grabbing her) Well!  You must be Bonnie!  Now I hear you been takin' good care of the baby in the family.  Well sis, I'm real glad to meet you! (he hugs her; BONNIE just lets herself be hugged) Say... (breaking the hug) I'd like you to meet my wife, Blanche. 
BONNIE (stiffly) Hello. 
BLANCHE (stiffly) Hello. 
There is an awkward pause.  Suddenly the screen door opens and C.W. comes out, dressed in his long underwear.  BLANCHE can hardly stand it. 
CLYDE Everybody, this is C.W. Moss. C.W., my brother Buck and his wife, Blanche. 
C.W. (friendly) Heighdy, y'all. 
He pumps BUCK's hand vigorously and then goes to BLANCHE. With his characteristic one-track intensity, he decides to act just as friendly as he can with BLANCHE, ignoring the fact that he's standing there in his underwear.  BLANCHE, however, is not ignoring it. 
C.W. Well how do, Mrs. Barrow.  Or can I call you Blanch?  I sure am pleased to meet you. (shaking her hand; Blanche is slowly going crazy with mortification) Did you have a hard time findin' us here in this neck of the woods? Well, you sure picked a good day for it.  Say, you got a Screenland there!  Any new photos of Myrna Loy? She's my favorite picture star. 
BLANCHE is starting to edge over to BUCK in sheer panic at this strange, young man in his BVD's but C.W. takes no notice of it. 
BLANCHE finally grabs BUCK's arm.  BONNIE watches it all, smirking. 
BUCK Hey, lemme get the Kodak! 
BUCK goes to his car and gets a folding Brownie camera. 
CLYDE (lighting up a cigar) Hey, C.W., go put your pants on. We're gonna take some pictures. 
BUCK Y'all hear about the guy who thought Western Union was a cowboy's underwear? 
BUCK and CLYDE and C.W. laugh heartily.  C.W. goes into the cabin.  BUCK pushes BLANCHE and CLYDE together, posing them for a picture. 
BONNIE Lemme get one of my bride and my brother. 
BLANCHE (getting kittenish, and overdoing it) Buck!  Don't take my picture now. I'm just a mess from driving all day. 
BUCK Oh honey, now you look real fine. 
BONNIE watches BLANCHE's behavior with hardly-veiled disgust. BUCK snaps the picture as BLANCHE is just about to move out of it. 
BLANCHE (with unbecoming girlish outrage) Did you take my picture?  Oh Buck! I declare-- 
BUCK laughs and goes to BONNIE, takes her by the arm and moves her next to CLYDE and BLANCHE.  He lines them up, steps back and takes their picture.  CLYDE is the only one smiling. 
CLYDE (pulling out his gun and posing like a movie tough) Hey, Buck, get one of this. 
BUCK does. 
BUCK (giving Clyde the camera) Clyde, you do one of me and my missus. 
He puts his arm around BLANCHE.  CLYDE takes the picture. 
CLYDE (throwing her a challenge) Let me take on of Bonnie. 
BONNIE grins at him and responds with amused arrogance. 
BONNIE (she yanks the cigar from Clyde's mouth, smokes it and poses) Okay. 
CLYDE snaps the picture.  Everyone but BLANCHE laughs.  C.W. comes out dressed. 
BUCK (drawing Clyde aside) Hey, brother, let's you and me do a little talkin'. 
CLYDE (handing C.W. the camera) Here, C.W., take the girls' picture. 
INT. CABIN.  DAY. 
They walk into the cabin.  Camera goes with them.  Bedroom is dark, shades pulled down.  There is an aura of boys' clubhouse secret camaraderie in the following scene: 
BUCK (as soon as the door is shut; conspiratorially) It was you or him, wasn't it? 
CLYDE Huh? 
BLANCHE giggles.  The two cars pull up before the garage and the people start to descend. 
INT. GARAGE APARTMENT.  DAY. 
A winded BUCK enters and puts down BLANCHE.  As others behind him carry in their things and disperse throughout apartment. 
BLANCHE Oh look, it's so clean, Buck.  And a Frigidaire...not an icebox! 
BUCK He give me the grocery number. 
He goes to the phone. 
BUCK (continuing) Lemme see, eh 4337...Operator... please ma'm, may I have 4337...if you please? 
BLANCHE Oh...they got linoleum on the counter.  Ain't that clever! 
BUCK Hello, Smitty's grocery...I'd like to order a mess of groceries.  Oh yeah...eh 143 Hillsdale Street. Lessee, about 8 pounds of porkchops, 4 pounds of red beans...a can of Chase and Sandborn...uh. 
BLANCHE Oh, isn't this something, Daddy! 
BUCK Sshh.  Uh...quart of milk...uh 8 bottles of Dr. Pepper and that's it, I guess.  No...no.  Uh...a box of Rice Krispies...Bye now. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM.  DAY. 
Open on BONNIE and CLYDE.  He is cleaning guns.  She is watching something off screen.  We hear a clicking sound. 
BLANCHE (O.S.) My, you need a haircut, Daddy.  You look like a hillbilly boy. 
A look of disgust crosses BONNIE's face.  CLYDE, who has been watching her, smiles.  The clicking sound increases suddenly. 
BUCK (O.S.) Gotcha! 
BLANCHE whoops.  Camera cuts to see that BUCK and C.W. are playing checkers and BUCK has just beaten him. 
C.W. Again. 
BUCK Boy, you ain't never gonna beat me but you keep tryin' now. 
He starts to set up the game again. 
BLANCHE Jest like an ol' man.  Plays checkers all the time and doesn't pay any attention to his poor lonely wife. 
She ruffles his hair again. 
BUCK Cut it out now, honey.  I'm gonna teach this boy a lesson he'll never forget. 
Camera cuts to BONNIE, watching with disgust.  Then slowly, a wicked little smile edges across her face.  She watches for a moment more, then she rises and with the most ingenuous look she can muster up, beckons to CLYDE to follow her into the bedroom.  A little puzzled, CLYDE follows. 
INT. BEDROOM. 
BONNIE closes the door and immediately begins fussing with CLYDE's hair, doing a scathing imitation of BLANCHE.  Though her miming expresses her irritation at being closeted with the Barrow menage, it is also a peach doing an imitation of a lemon--and it is disarmingly sensual... Indeed the mimicry allows BONNIE to be physically freer with CLYDE, and allows CLYDE to respond without anxiety, without self-consciousness. We should have the distinct--if momentary--feeling that CLYDE could suddenly make it with BONNIE. 
BONNIE (doing an unmerciful imitation) Oh, Daddy, you shore need a haircut. You look just like a little old hillbilly boy, I do declare. (she has her other hand toying with the buttons on his shirt, her hand slipping under, fluttering across his bare chest) Oh mercy me, oh my stars! 
CLYDE laughs, and BONNIE tugs at the shirt--she kneels on the bed over CLYDE, who quite easily drapes across it. 
BONNIE (a little louder) Oh, Daddy!  Yore such a slowpoke! 
She's letting her hair fall loose, its golden ends brushing up and down CLYDE's body. 
CLYDE (amused, but cautionary) Hush up a little.  They're in the next room. 
BONNIE (a mock-pout, but with an edge to it) Shoot, there's always somebody in this room, the next room and ever' other kind of room. 
CLYDE has his arm around BONNIE, and she's almost draped across him--but in the direction of the length of the bed, so their bodies almost form a crooked cross.  She digs an elbow into his stomach. 
CLYDE Oof!...now that ain't no nice way to talk about my brother. 
BONNIE (imitating Blanche again with baby talk) I ain't talking about your brother. 
Suddenly BONNIE straightens up to a kneeling position again, and cocks her head.  When she speaks now it is with a simple plaintiveness. 
BONNIE Honey, do you ever just want to be alone with Me? (sensing Clyde's sensitivity to the sexual implication) I don't just mean like that...I mean do you ever have the notion of us bein' out together and alone, like at some fancy ball, or, I don't know, where we walk in all dressed and they announce us and it's fancy and in public, but we're alone somehow.  We're separate from everybody else, and they know it. 
The police, down the stairs into the garage--we follow them with a hand-held camera tracking rapidly. 
EXT. STREET.  DAY. 
BLANCHE, however, in utter panic, just runs right out the front door, and begins running down the quiet residential street, going nowhere, anywhere. 
EXT. GARAGE APARTMENT.  DAY. 
BUCK, crouching, shooting with one hand, gets the garage door open.  A policeman fires.  BUCK fires back and the cop falls dead in the street.  BUCK, firing, dashes to the police car blocking their escape and releases the hand brake. CLYDE, BONNIE and C.W. leap into their car, gun the motor, still shooting madly.  Two more police fall dead or wounded. One policeman is hurled through a fence by the blast of a sawed-off shotgun.  BUCK jumps into the car with the others. They now begin to bump the police car with their car.  The police car picks up speed as they push it and it tears into the street right at the group of firing police.  The gang's car turns into the street toward the running BLANCHE. BONNIE and CLYDE are in front; BUCK and C.W. in the back seat firing back at police.  The car pulls alongside the wildly running BLANCHE; the back door is flung open and in almost the style of a cartoon, two hands reach out and lift her off her feet and pull her into the car.  They speed away. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CAR.  DAY. 
The inside of the car, still speeding.  BLANCHE is hysterical. C.W. is still firing out the window.  The pursuing police car's driver is shot and the car crashes into a tree.  The gang is not being pursued now, but CLYDE is driving at 90. BLANCHE is moaning and crying.  BONNIE, in front, turns around furiously. 
BONNIE Dammit, you almost got us killed! 
BLANCHE (crying) What did I do wrong?  I s'pose you'd be happier if I got shot. 
BONNIE (at her bitchiest) Yeah, it would of saved us all a lot of trouble. 
BLANCHE Buck, don't let that woman talk to me like that! 
BUCK (caught in the middle of a bad situation, knowing Blanche is wrong, but trying to soothe her) You shouldn't have done it, Blanche. (quietly, cont.) It was a dumb thing to do. 
BLANCHE (switching tactics) Please, Buck, I didn't marry you to see you shot up!  Please, let's go! Let's get out of here and leave. Make him stop the car and let us out! 
BUCK (still quietly) Can't.  I killed a man.  We're in this now. 
BLANCHE (loud and shrill) Please!  Please! 
BONNIE (exploding) Shut up!  Just shut up your big mouth!  At least do that, will ya, just shut up. 
CLYDE Cut it out, Bonnie. 
BONNIE is affronted.  BLANCHE continues sobbing. 
BONNIE (curtly) Stop the car.  I want to talk to you. 
Without a word, CLYDE stops the car. 
EXT. ROADSIDE.  DAY. 
BONNIE and CLYDE get out and walk fifteen feet away from the car.  Both are irritated and touchy.  Camera follows them. 
CLYDE (coldly) What is it? 
BONNIE Get rid of her. 
CLYDE Can't do that.  She's Buck's wife. 
BONNIE (snapping her words) Get rid of both of them then. 
CLYDE Why?  What's the matter with you anyway? 
BONNIE She's what's the matter with me, a damn stupid back country hick without a brain in her head. (contemptuously) She ain't nothin' but prunes and proverbs. 
CLYDE (really pissed-off at Bonnie) What makes you any better?  What makes you so damn special?  You're just a West Dallas waitress who spent half your time pickin' up truck drivers! 
This hits home with BONNIE.  He has said the unforgivable. 
BONNIE (raising her voice) You talk to me like that!  Big Clyde Barrow, just the same as your brother, an ignorant uneducated hillbilly. (with deadly archness) Only special thing about you is your peculiar ideas about lovemakin'--which is no love makin' at all. 
CLYDE stiffens.  The two of them stand silent and tense, almost quivering with anger.  They have stripped each other raw.  CLYDE turns and looks back at the car.  Everyone is waiting, watching them.  He breathes a deep sigh, like a man counting to 10 to hold his temper. 
CLYDE Look, Bonnie-- 
He can't finish. 
Close.  BONNIE.  She drops her head into her hand for a moment, comes up a little more relaxed.  She looks at CLYDE and her eyes reflect the realization of the pain she has inflicted on him.  She softens. 
BONNIE Clyde...honey...I didn't mean all that, honey.  Blame it on all that shootin', I just felt so bad...sure enough...Clyde? 
CLYDE Okay...Okay, hon...let's get movin'... 
C.W. He's lost, this here Texas Ranger. 
CLYDE claps BRYCE's hands behind his back, handcuffs him, spins him around. 
CLYDE (a little pissed) --he ain't lost...them banks are offerin' extra reward money fer us, and Frank figured on easy pickin's, didn't you? (he suddenly knocks Bryce's hat off) Didn't you? 
BRYCE flinches involuntarily.  BUCK suddenly grows wary at CLYDE's mood.  CLYDE leans into BRYCE, looking up. 
CLYDE --Now you ain't hardly doin' your job, Texas Ranger.  You oughta be home lookin' after the rights of poor folks, not out chasin' after us. 
He suddenly hefts BRYCE's huge bulk onto the fender. 
BUCK (trying to be casual) Easy there, Clyde.  Why take is so personal. 
CLYDE (to Bryce) Reg'lar laws is one thing.  But this here bounty hunting, we got to discourage that. 
BLANCHE looks very uncomfortable.  She starts to say something, but BUCK intervenes. 
BUCK Like how, Clyde?-- 
A tense moment.  CLYDE can't think of anything right away. 
C.W. (trying to be helpful) Shoot him. 
BONNIE shoots C.W. an angry glance--it's just what the gang doesn't want. 
C.W. (trying again) ...hang him?... 
Reaction--BONNIE carefully gauging the moment to intervene. 
BONNIE (suddenly) --uh-uh.  Take his picture. 
CLYDE's not sure he's heard right.  Neither is C.W. 
C.W. Take his picture? 
BONNIE (pointedly ignoring C.W., brightly) Then we'll let the newspapers have it--so's everyone can see Captain Frank Bryce of the Texas Rangers with the Barrow gang-- (moving demurely to Bryce) --and all bein' just as friendly as pie. 
BUCK (grasping possibilities immediately) ...yeah, yeah... 
BONNIE (continuing right on, coyly picking up Bryce's gun from grill) --why we 'bout the friendliest folks in the world.  Texas Ranger waves his big ol' gun at us, and we just welcome him like he's one of our own. 
CLYDE (grinning widely) Buck, get the Kodak! 
BUCK (relieved and excited) Hot dog! 
CLYDE (to Bryce) We're mighty proud to have a Texas Ranger in the family. 
BRYCE is obviously not pleased with this turn of events. Following dialogue is overlapped, ad-libbed, etc.  A sense of mounting glee at the kind of vengeance they are going to exact. 
New angle.  BUCK is fiddling with the camera, setting up the shot with CLYDE.  BUCK's following speech should be heard, b.g., to CLYDE's speech below it. 
BUCK ...keep him set on the hood, there...more to the sun, like that...yeah...when all his ranger friends see this...I bet he's gonna wish he was dead! 
CLYDE (to Bryce) ...see what come o' your mischief?...not doin' your job? Down in Duncanville last year poor farmers kepts the laws away from us with shot guns...you're s'posed to be protectin' them from us, and they're protectin' us from you. (giggling) --don't make sense, do it? 
BUCK C'mon, now, Clyde, you and Bonnie first.  Move into him, right close, right friendly. 
CLYDE All righty (to Bryce, whose hands are tied, hemmed in by them both) Don't move, now, hear? 
CLYDE grandly puts an arm on BRYCE's shoulder, BONNIE, looking up admiringly from the other side.  BUCK takes the picture.  BONNIE immediately hops onto the hood, next to BRYCE. 
BONNIE How's this? "Captain Bryce and new found friend." 
She coyly loosens his tie, tousles his hair, and plants a big kiss on him while still ogling camera. 
CLYDE ...yeah, yeah...quick, Buck, get it... 
BUCK ...I'm gettin' it, I'm gettin' it. 
Quite suddenly BRYCE, whose simmering intensity we should be more sensitive to than the gang is, spits on Bonnie.  BONNIE half-screams in disgust, but CLYDE is on top of BRYCE in a flash, half-strangling on his own fury.  He pulls BRYCE off the fender by the handcuffs, spinning him around crazily like a lasso.  BRYCE is literally ricocheted off the car by the force, and, with CLYDE hanging on by the cuffs, plummets down the embankment to the sandy beach below, both men falling, spinning.  BRYCE rises shakily.  He tries to walk away.  CLYDE grabs him again by the handcuffs and hurls him out into the water.  BRYCE smacks into a tree stump poking out of the shallows and goes down.  CLYDE is on top of him. 
Meanwhile, BUCK has rushed down into the water, tries to pull CLYDE off BRYCE. 
BUCK (frantic) I got the picture.  I got the picture... 
DISSOLVE: 
EXT. SUBURBAN STREET. 
A residential neighborhood on a suburban street.  A rather well-to-do neighborhood.  The camera is up on a porch of a white frame house, looking toward the street.  On the porch, sitting in the swing in the left f.g. are a MAN and a WOMAN. She is about twenty-nine, he is about thirty-six.  He is sitting with his back to us, embracing the WOMAN.  They are spooning, making low, loving murmurs. 
WOMAN Oh, now...now, dear... 
MAN Mmmm...sweet thing... 
We see in the distance two cars parked in front of the house. His and hers.  Suddenly we see another car drive up (BONNIE and CLYDE) and somebody gets out.  Then the whole gang gets out, ditches the one car and gets in one of the parked cars. All the while the couple on the porch is busy spooning.  The car begins to roll slowly into the street.  The WOMAN notices. 
WOMAN Say, isn't that your car, Eugene? 
MAN (still nuzzling her) Mmmmmm...huh? (he looks, leaps from the swing) That's my car!  Hey! 
The MAN and WOMAN run down the front steps and front walk to the second car.  They jump in and take off, giving chase. 
INT. CAR.  DAY. 
The WOMAN is driving (it's her car).  The MAN is furious. 
EUGENE I'll tear 'em apart!  Those punks! Steal a man's car right out from under him!  Wait till I get my hands on those kids, Velma, I'll show 'em! 
They continue driving, furious, the man cursing and muttering. We see through their windshield the other car way in the distance. 
VELMA What if they have guns, Eugene? 
EUGENE (realizing the possibility, he suddenly stops being mad and turns chicken) We'd better get the police and let them handle this. 
VELMA Right. 
EUGENE Turn around and let's get back to town.  We'll go get the sheriff. 
They are by now on a narrow dirt road and the WOMAN has to execute a U-turn.  It takes her about seven cuts to turn the car around in the narrow space.  They start back to town. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BONNIE AND CLYDE'S CAR. 
BUCK looks out the rear window. 
BUCK They stopped chasin' us.  They turned around. 
Close-up.  CLYDE grinning mischievously. 
CLYDE Let's take 'em. 
BUCK and C.W. laugh appreciatively at the reversal.  CLYDE turns the car around.  He performs the U-turn in the same narrow space in one, swift, smooth, beautiful turn. 
CUT TO: 
INT. THE OTHER CAR. 
VELMA looks in the rear view mirror and sees that now she is being chased. 
VELMA Oh, my Lord, they're comin' after us. 
EUGENE (in a panic) Step on it, Velma, step on it! 
Close-up.  Accelerator.  VELMA jams it down to the floor. The car speeds. 
EXT. ROAD.  THE CHASE.  DAY. 
BONNIE and CLYDE's car gaining on them, gaining on them, gaining on them and finally overtaking them, coming up and ahead, forcing them to the side of the road. 
Med. shot.  The MAN and WOMAN's car.  Terrified, they roll up their windows, lock their doors and huddle together. 
EXT. ROAD. 
The Barrow gang piles out of their car and walks over, having a merry time.  They surround the car and press their faces against the window, flattening their features, making menacing gestures at the shaking pair inside.  We see this from the point of view of the MAN and WOMAN inside the car. CLYDE pulls out a gun, makes as if to shoot, but he is kidding.  They all laugh uproariously, especially BUCK who is delighted with CLYDE's prank.  All of this we see in pantomime from inside the trapped car. 
EXT. CAR. 
CLYDE C'mon, get out!  Get out of there, I said. 
EUGENE (studying his hamburger) This isn't mine.  I ordered mine well done.  Who's got the other hamburger? 
Close-up.  C.W. who has already taken a bite of the other one. 
C.W. Oh, is this supposed to be yours? 
He extends the bitten burger out to EUGENE. 
Full shot. 
EUGENE That's okay, forget it. 
CLYDE laughs at this. 
BUCK (chewing) Haw!  I sure am havin' a good time! How 'bout you folks?  Ain't you glad we picked you up? 
CLYDE (laughing) Hey, maybe y'all ought to join up with us. 
That idea strikes everyone as being very amusing. 
EUGENE (laughing) Ha!  Wouldn't they be surprised back home to hear that? 
VELMA Yeah.  What would Martha and Bill say if they heard that? (she roars with laughter) (MORE) 
VELMA (CONT'D) 
EUGENE Lordy!  They'd throw a fit! (roars with laughter) 
BONNIE (laughing) What do you do, anyway? 
EUGENE (as his laugh begins to fade) I'm an undertaker. 
Suddenly everyone freezes.  A shudder, as if the cold hand of death had suddenly touched the occupants of the car.  The atmosphere changes to cold, deadly, fearful silence in exactly one second.  It is a premonition of death for the Barrows, and they react accordingly, BONNIE especially. 
Close-up.  BONNIE. 
BONNIE (tautly, in a flat voice) Get them out of here. 
EXT. ROAD.  NIGHT. 
The car brakes to a sudden stop.  The rear down is opened, the MAN and WOMAN flung out into the darkness.  The car drives off into the lonely night. 
From this point on, the audience should realize that death is inevitable for the Barrow gang, that it follows them always, that it waits anywhere.  It is no longer a question of whether death will come, but when it will. 
EXT. WOODS.  MORNING. 
Moving with CLYDE he tears through the brush, snagging his clothes, calling BONNIE's name.  CLYDE's search is so desperate here that for a moment we might think he is fleeing from something rather than looking for something. 
In a moment he emerges onto the road.  The car, with C.W. driving, and BUCK and BLANCHE beside him, is patrolling slowly up ahead of him. 
CLYDE spots it and runs toward it.  Hold on this angle until he catches up with it and leaps onto the running board. 
Moving shot.  Car.  Morning.  CLYDE, now on the running board, his head poked into the car, his face apple red and sweating. 
CLYDE (breathing heavily) ...see anythin', Buck? 
BUCK is shocked at his brother's desperation, but makes no overt comment on it. 
BUCK --not yet, boy. 
CLYDE (with an edge of paranoia, as if the three of them might be withholding something from him) --and nobody saw her leave, or heard anythin' (almost a threat) ...C.W....? 
EXT. CAR.  MOVING SHOT.  DAY. 
CLYDE gets the point.  For the very first time we see CLYDe, the leader, helpless as he hangs onto the running board. 
CLYDE (lamely) ...Well, where do you think she could've gone?...Buck?...Buck? 
BUCK (amazed and a little frightened) Jesus, I don't know... 
CLYDE looks helplessly at his brother, then drops off the running board and continues on foot, running along, scanning the fields--the car keeping up beside him as he runs and we truck before both car and CLYDE. 
Angle on car through windshield.  Reaction shot.  Day.  BUCK turning to BLANCHE, shrugging his shoulders, speechless. 
Reverse angle through the windshield.  Day--at CLYDE, who has suddenly seen something begins gesticulating wildly, almost--from car's POV, a little comically. 
BONNIE Don't go yet, Mama. 
UNCLE'S VOICE (cutting in) C'mere, c'mere you little corn roller. 
Wide angle.  As Uncle sweeps up the laughing little Tom. 
Reaction--BONNIE.  BONNIE turns with increased urgency to her MOTHER, who, having been hefted to her feet by BONNIE's sister, has turned to CLYDE, who gives her a big, boyish hug. 
MOTHER ...you know, Clyde, I read about y'all in the papers and I'm jes' scared. 
BONNIE (to Clyde) Sugar, make mama stay a while yet. 
CLYDE (ignoring Bonnie, as does Mother, ebulliently, even joshing) Now Mrs. Parker, don't y'all believe what you read in the papers! That's the law talking there.  They want us to look big so's they'll look big when they catch us. 
He knows he's stumbled onto the wrong thing, but he bounces right along--it's his style. 
CLYDE --and they can't do that.  Why, I'm even better at runnin' than robbin' banks--aw shoot, if we done half the stuff they said we did, we'd be millionaires, wouldn't we, old sugar. (MORE) 
CLYDE (CONT'D) (he turns to Bonnie who continues to stare at her Mother) And I wouldn't risk Bonnie here just to make money, uncertain as times are.  Why one time I knowed of a job where we could of make $2000 easy, but I saw the law outside and I said to myself, why Bonnie could get hurt here.  So I just drove right on and let that money lay. 
He waits for a response, as does BONNIE.  BONNIE's MOTHER smiles, a little abstractedly. 
MOTHER ...Maybe you know the way with her, then.  I'm just an old woman and I don't know nothin... 
She trails off, looking nowhere in particular.  CLYDE takes her reaction to mean that he's overwhelming her with his confidence, and continues to pour it on. 
CLYDE We'll be quittin' this just as soon as the hard times is over, Mother Parker, I can tell you that.  Why me and Bonnie were just talkin' the other day and we talked about when we'd settle down and get us a home, and Bonnie said, "I couldn't bear to live morn'n three miles from my precious mother." Now how'd you like that, Mother Parker? 
BONNIE's MOTHER has undergone a funny sort of transformation during CLYDE's speech--as if something had suddenly come into focus before the old woman's eyes. 
MOTHER Don't believe I would.  I surely don't. (to Bonnie) You try to live three miles from me and you won't live long, honey. (to Clyde) You'd best keep runnin' and you know it, Clyde Barrow. (matter of fact) Bye, baby. 
She hugs BONNIE who can barely respond.  We move in for a closeup of BONNIE as her various relatives, young and old come by to squeeze, kiss and hug her with a chirpy little chorus of Bye, Bonnie!  Bye, Bonnie, bye, bye, bye. 
DISSOLVE: 
EXT. PLATTE CITY MOTEL.  PLATTE CITY, IOWA.  DAY. 
Hold on the outside long enough to see the unusual structures: two little motel cabins connected by two identical garages, an entirely symmetrical structure. 
INT. PLATTE CITY MOTEL BEDROOM.  WITH BONNIE.  DAY. 
--as she tries, against heavy odds, to file and trim her nails in a corner of the room.  The odds are; CLYDE on a uke, b.g., BUCK, and BLANCHE--gathered around C.W. who sits in the only stuffed chair in the room.  Their o.s. raucousness is clearly shattering to BONNIE who, at a key moment in the scene, ends up spearing her cuticle with a file, spurting a little board and a lot of temper. 
Other angle.  CLYDE--BUCK--BLANCHE--C.W.  Day.  A naked lightbulb (the lampshade has been removed) glares down on C.W.'s chest--where a pair of bluebirds have been tattooed with a rocco flourish.  BUCK and BLANCHE are vastly amused-- rather BLANCHE takes delight in BUCK's delight. 
BUCK How long have ya had it? 
C.W. (like some docile animal submitting to inspection) --just got it. 
BUCK (to Blanche, who stares fascinated as one of C.W.'s pectoral muscles contracts and the wings flutter) Touch it, honey!  Go on! 
BLANCHE squeals with amusement.  BUCK takes BLANCHE's hand and places it on the bluebirds. 
BLANCHE (titillated with delight) Oh, no, Daddy!  No! 
Reaction BONNIE.  Day--as the file digs into her cuticle on BLANCHE's squeal.  With barely controlled rage: 
BONNIE What are you all doin'? 
INT. MOTEL BEDROOM.  GROUP SHOT.  FAV. BONNIE.  DAY. 
C.W. (insensitive to Bonnie's stare) Playin' with my tattoo, Bonnie. 
BONNIE Well, why don't you all go play with it somewhere else? 
New angle.  Motel bedroom.  Day. 
BLANCHE What's bothering her? 
CLYDE (sees something coming) Not now, Blanche. 
BUCK (who doesn't want to be victimized by Bonnie's temperament) What's bothering her, Clyde? 
BONNIE (exploding) I said go somewhere else! 
BLANCHE (quick to take offense, snaps) So what? 
C.W. Nothin'. 
BLANCHE, sick of it all, drops her head in her hand with a sigh. 
BLANCHE Oh, God... 
C.W. looks at her, finally decides to say something that occurs to him. 
C.W. Whyn't you go back home to your papa? 
BLANCHE (it's been her dream) Oh, if I could!  If I could just do that one thing!  Oh, there's no tellin' why this all happened.  I was a preacher's daughter. 
C.W. When church is your pa affiliated with? 
BLANCHE (much more interested in talking about herself) Baptist...oh, and he thought the world of Buck, my daddy did, even knowing that Buck was serving time in jail.  He forgave him for that 'cause he paid his debt to society. 
C.W. We were Disciples of Christ. 
INT. FRIED CHICKEN CAFE. 
The camera remains stationary in this scene, in this position. A lunch counter sweeps down the center of the screen.  We are at one end of the counter.  In the f.g., a DEPUTY sits drinking coffee, absorbed in his cup.  In the b.g., at the other end of the counter, by the Exit door, BLANCHE and C.W. are being handed their order by the counterman. 
BLANCHE Hey, C.W., I ain't got my money. Give me some, will you? 
The DEPUTY turns his head and looks over there.  C.W. opens his jacket to reach in his pocket for money.  As he opens his coat, his gun is clearly seen tucked in his pants. Camera zooms in to tight close-up of gun. 
Close shot.  DEPUTY--his face tense.  Sound of door closing shut, as C.W. and BLANCHE leave. 
DEPUTY (to counterman) Get Sheriff Smoot on the phone. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. PLATTE CITY MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT. 
On C.W.'s moonlit chest and face, tattooed bluebirds heaving and occasionally snoring in the night.  Behind him the room is dimly lit by flickering candles that are placed out of sight on the floor.  The shapes in the room--the bed is gutted and only the box mattress remains--dresser, lamp shades, etc., are grotesque in the flickering light.  O.s. sounds of BONNIE and CLYDE, BONNIE giggling and CLYDE whispering something we can't quite hear. 
Move across the room toward the gutted bed.  Move giggling from the floor beneath the box mattress--for a moment it should appear as if something perversely sexual may be going on between BONNIE and CLYDE. 
BONNIE'S VOICE Ready? 
CLYDE'S VOICE (a little embarrassed) Aw Bonnie-- 
BONNIE'S VOICE (coaxing) C'mon! 
CLYDE's arm wielding a Tommy gun, clears the bed.  With the muzzle, CLYDE knocks the swivel mirror on the dresser overhead, bringing BONNIE and CLYDE into view. 
Closer angle mirror--BONNIE and CLYDE.  Night.  BONNIE lies stiff as a statue on the white mattress, impeccably dressed for her funeral.  Candelabras made of empty beer bottles lie at her head and feet.  BONNIE's hands and face are powdered and painted a waxen white.  She wears a garish silk bow in her hair which it, for this occasion, curled like a little girl's. 
CLYDE sits up, beer bottle in one hand, Tommy gun in the other, derby hat cocked--and just a little unsure of the whole thing.  He takes a swig--BONNIE stops him, trying terribly hard not to change her position. 
BONNIE Lie down now, honey. 
CLYDE I've done enough! 
Angle on mirror--BONNIE and CLYDE.  Night. 
BONNIE (with patience, to a child) You have to lie down...it's the only way we can tell what we'll look kike together. 
She giggles again, more than a little gassed herself.  CLYDE clamps a big cigar between his teeth and abruptly lies down beside her.  CLYDE is both amused and annoyed. 
CLYDE (staring up at himself talking with cigar clenched between his teeth) Whatta you think? 
BONNIE (it suddenly strikes her) That's not the right tie! 
CLYDE What? 
BONNIE (rising, weaving a little) You can't wear polka-dots on an occasion like this. 
CLYDE Well what-- 
BONNIE Stripes.  Don't go away now. 
She weaves her way over to the dresser, takes a swig from a bottle there herself, checks her makeup, and returns with the tie.  Holding against his chest to try it out she almost falls into him.  CLYDE steadies her. 
EXT. STREET. 
The police run back to their cars to give chase, calling out to each other, unable to believe that the gang could possibly have gotten away. 
INT. CAR.  NIGHT. 
as it is speeding down the highway.  Crazy, mad hillbilly music on the soundtrack.  Packed inside this car right now is more sheer human misery and horror than could be believed. It is hell in there, hell and suffering and pain.  The car is a complete mess.  C.W. is sobbing.  Everyone is hysterical. BLANCHE is shrieking with pain and concern for BUCK.  BUCK is alternating between groaning and passing out completely. BONNIE is yelling at everybody to shut up. 
Only CLYDE, driving with both hands clenched on the wheel, is silent.  The car is doing 90. 
EXT. SUBURBAN STREET.  NIGHT. 
The car from the outside, a half hour later.  They have eluded the police.  They are barreling down the road at top speed on a nice suburban street with proper homes.  It is the middle of the night, utter silence.  CLYDE stops the car, points to ca car in a driveway--it is a beautiful, shiny new and expensive automobile.  C.W. runs out, runs up the driveway, peers inside, gets in, quietly backs it down the driveway and pulls behind the gang's bullet-riddled getaway car.  Suddenly they both zoom off down the road together. 
INT. OF THE NEW CAR.  NIGHT. 
C.W. driving alone.  He is crying, mumbling, wiping his eyes and nose with one hand while he controls the wheel with the other. 
EXT. RING OF FIRS.  NIGHT. 
A wide field in the country.  This is Dexter, Iowa.  It is quiet.  We see, in a long shot that takes in everything, that this is a meadow surrounded by a ring of trees, a dense forest that circles them.  The meadow, however, is large. 
The two cars drive into the middle of the field, headlights on.  They stop and the Barrow gang gets out.  They are in horrible shape--we can finally have a look at them.  Half- dressed in their pajamas, bloody, dirty, in tatters.  Those that can stagger out do so, others are carried.  A far shot of all this. 
Closer shot.  Moving closer to them, we see CLYDE and C.W. lay BUCK down on the ground.  CLYDE begins to administer to his wounds as best he can, mostly just wiping him off.  BUCK is semi-conscious.  All are in a semi-daze.  BLANCHE falls to her knees, still clutching her eyes.  She is totally hysterical. 
BLANCHE Oh, God, please help us!  Dear Father in Heaven, get us out of this and Buck will never do another bad thing in his life! (she continues moaning, praying, sobbing) 
BONNIE walks over to the group, looking at BUCK, C.W. goes over to her.  Two shot--BONNIE and C.W. 
C.W. He ain't got a chance.  Half his head blown off. 
Camera pulls back to take in BLANCHE. 
BLANCHE My eyes! (she SCREAMS) God, I think I'm blind. (in the headlights) ...light hurts so bad... 
BONNIE walks over to the car and comes back with the sunglasses BUCK had given BLANCHE.  Moving her out of the glare, she helps BLANCHE put them on.  BONNIE now has an arm around BLANCHE, and BLANCHE shivers into BONNIE gracefully. BONNIE is a little repelled by BLANCHE, but comforts her out of genuine feeling for her. 
BLANCHE (clinging) Please, please get us to a doctor! Tell Clyde to get us to a doctor. We'll die here. 
BONNIE (helping with glasses) --here, hon'. 
BONNIE looks silently up to CLYDE.  CLYDE is looking dumbly down at his mangled brother. 
BLANCHE (going on) Clyde, Clyde, please get us to a doctor. 
Though BLANCHE cannot see it, CLYDE has knelt down to the side of BUCK, taking BUCK's hand and with his other hand has begun smoothing BUCK's hair back, away from the wound. 
BLANCHE He's your brother! 
BONNIE (gently, knowing CLYDE will not and cannot answer BLANCHE) Buck can't be moved, now, hon'. 
BLANCHE's answer to this is hysterical sobbing, burying herself into BONNIE, mumbling half-coherent, muffled prayers between the sobs. 
With BUCK and CLYDE. 
BUCK (weakly) Clyde?...Clyde?... 
CLYDE Right here, boy. 
BUCK I believe I lost my shoes...maybe the dog hid 'em... (he lapses into unconsciousness again) 
CLYDE has begun to cry a little, continues to smooth back BUCK's hair with ritualistic regularity. 
Wide angle.  Night.  Camera pulls away, way back to wide shot of the entire field, showing the group in the center of the darkness, lit by the headlights. 
Match dissolve into early dawn, camera still on the wide shot.  The field is lighter, though the trees still loom blackly around it.  The two cars, one almost a shattered wreck, the other bright and shiny and new, are parked in the center.  The sky is light, but the trees cast a dark shadow on the field.  The gang is just sitting around.  BLANCHE weeping next to BUCK, C.W. sitting on the running board of a car, staring.  BONNIE standing and smoking.  CLYDE still with BUCK. 
All is quiet. 
EXT. WOODS.  DAY. 
From the edge of the woods, a man in a white shirt emerges from behind a tree.  The camera swings abruptly to get him. He calls out to the gang. 
MAN Surrender! 
BONNIE Baby, no... 
But CLYDE has not heard this last.  Working on pure adrenaline now, he struggles onward.  Camera tilts up slightly so we can see CLYDE as he essays his way toward a farmhouse with a car in the distance.  After a few moments he disappears and we can hear only the cracking of the stalks as that sound too diminishes, 
Full shot.  Cornfield.  Day.  Silence. 
Close.  C.W. and BONNIE.  Obviously some time later.  They both lie prostrate in the field, listening.  C.W. licks his lips. 
C.W. Maybe-- 
BONNIE Shhh! 
They wait for another long moment, picking up only the tiniest sounds. 
BONNIE (finally) Oh, no. 
C.W. (nervously) What?  What? 
BONNIE (as though it were the most logical thing in the world) I can't die without Clyde.  I just can't. 
C.W. looks at her as if she's gone crazy.  After another moment the corn begins to tremble, and we hear the o.s. sound of an approaching car. 
With C.W. Day--tentatively lifting his head up to clear the corn stalks.  With him we see the car looming larger, bearing down on us, splitting the corn stalks.  The car finally comes to a stop a few feet in front of C.W.  BONNIE is on her feet, and CLYDE tumbles out of the car, practically before it's stopped, sweeping BONNIE into him.  For a moment both are in their knees a few feet from the running board of the car, simply holding onto each other and not moving. 
C.W. (tugging at both of them frantically) C'mon!  C'mon!  C'mon! 
ABRUPT CUT: 
INT. CAR.  ABOUT A HALF HOUR LATER.  DAY. 
They have gotten away, but are still escaping.  C.W. is driving.  He is bare-chested.  CLYDE is beside him in front, his arm bleeding.  He falls in and out of consciousness. BONNIE is stretched out in back. 
Her shoulder has been bandaged with C.W.'s shirt.  She is unconscious. 
INT. CAR.  LATE DAY. 
CLYDE comes half-awake and looks over at C.W. 
CLYDE Head out, C.W. 
C.W. (determinedly) I'm goin' home to my daddy's farm. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. ROAD WITH CAMPSITE.  THE SAME EVENING. 
C.W. is driving down the road, hell for leather.  Nearing a campsite, where there are about six Okie cars and pick-up trucks all loaded down, with a number of poor families seated around a campfire, cooking.  C.W. jams on the brakes. He gets out, looking totally exhausted. 
Reaction shot.  The faces of the Okies, looking at this sudden presence in their midst. 
Back to C.W. 
C.W. (about to drop) Can y'all spare me a little water? 
EXT. CAMPSITE.  FULL SHOT. 
One man, the leader of the group, dips a cup of water and approaches C.W. suspiciously.  He comes close enough to make C.W. reach out for the water, but withholds it from him. 
MAN Who are you, boy? 
C.W. Name's Moss. 
This seems to be enough for the man, who gives him the water. As C.W. gulps it down, the man begins to circle the car, peering into it suspiciously.  Suddenly he starts and his eyes open wide. 
MAN (in really hushed and reverent tones) It's Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow. 
He stands there struck dumb, staring.  Those of the others who have heard him begin to come over.  Without a word they move quietly to the car and stare in. 
INT. CAR. 
BONNIE is out in the back seat; CLYDE is semi-conscious in the front seat.  He looks up through half-closed eyes. 
EXT. CAR. 
We see a woman pour a bowl of soup at the campfire and bring it to C.W.  He accepts it. 
BILLY (respectfully) Yeah, that's somethin' all right. Say, how many they say he shot anyway in his day? 
PETE Sixty-five they say. 
BILLY Son of a sea-cook! 
The door opens.  We see, full shot and then fast close-up FRANK HAMER.  It should be a complete shock to the audience-- this is the man kidnapped by the gang earlier and partially destroyed by BONNIE. 
HAMER is dressed in his Ranger outfit and hat, and again he has that quality of sinister frenzy beneath his calm manner. His attitude toward these lawmen is sheer condescension, friendly only out of convention, really superior and contemptuous of lesser workers in his field. 
HAMER (with politeness arising from condescension) Excuse me, am I in the right place? Is this Sheriff Smoot? 
PETE and BILLY jump up from the chairs and walk over to HAMER, hands extended.  They are quite impressed by meeting in the flesh. 
PETE (mispronouncing his name) Frank Hammer.  I sure am pleased to meet you! (shakes his hand) 
HAMER Hamer. 
EXT. MOSS FARM.  CLOSE SHOT NEWSPAPER.  DAY. 
A coil of rope snaps into and through the paper, splitting it and revealing C.W.'s startled face.  CLYDE strides the porch angrily, snapping the rope. 
BONNIE and MALCOLM are seated along with C.W.  Through BONNIE has her arm supported by a sling and CLYDE has his shoulder bandagedm it is evident by CLYDE's heady indignation and BONNIE's attentiveness that both are well on the way to recovery. 
CLYDE (still snapping rope) FLED?  What do they mean, fled? How in the nama God could I leave my brother to die when he was already dead when I left him? (livid) He was shot in too many pieces to pick off the ground!  Fled...what do they know, the papers or the police?... 
Suddenly he moves upon MALCOLM with enormous intent, as if by pounding the point home to the one relative stranger among them, he will justify it all.  MALCOLM momentarily flinches, then listens with intense deference. 
CLYDE Why, while we were all lyin' around here, near dead, they had us holdin' up the Grand Prairie National Bank!  They hung that one on us just for luck, I guess. 
CLYDE shakes his head, still thinking this over.  Abruptly, to BONNIE, with deadly seriousness: 
CLYDE Tell you what.  Soon's we get well, we're gonna take that bank! 
He breaks into a wicked grin, but then reels, catching himself on the porch railing.  He's obviously dizzy from exertion and anger.  BONNIE starts--then sees CLYDE is in control. 
CLYDE (remarking on his own dizziness) Whooooooo, boy... (kneeling, to Bonnie) They don't know nothin'--do they, sugar? 
BONNIE (assuring him) You did all you could, hon'. Nobody coulda done more. 
C.W. has been studying hard on the torn paper, b.g.  Suddenly: 
C.W. Hey.  How come I'm always called the "Un-identified sus-spect?" 
Group shot.  Porch.  C.W. has trouble with this last phrase. BONNIE laughs.  This picks up CLYDE's spirits once more. 
CLYDE (to C.W.) You can just thank your lucky stars that's all you are.  So long's they don't have your last name, you're home safe. 
MALCOLM (toadying to Clyde, talking to Clarence) Mr. Barrow's lookin' out for your interests, boy. 
C.W. (impressed) Oh...Hey, Pa, how you like havin' a coupla big deals stayin' with you? 
MALCOLM (friendly as can be) Ain't that somethin' for me? 
CLYDE (back in good mood, expansive) Well now, you been real nice to us, and I tell you what, let us pay you forty dollars for your hospitality, what do you say? 
MALCOLM (protesting vehemently) No, no, no.  I don't want your money.  I'm just pleased to have your company.  Any friend of my boy's... 
C.W. (abruptly) Hey, Pa, let's have supper.  I'm hungry. 
MALCOLM (smiling) Yeah...okay, Clarence... (to Clyde) You're welcome here, now you know that. 
INT. MOSS HOUSE. 
They go into the house.  Camera goes with them.  As soon as they are out of earshot from BONNIE and CLYDE, MALCOLM turns on C.W. displaying an entirely different demeanor from the one he presented outside. 
MALCOLM (indicating tatto which flutters through C.W.'s open shirt) You look like trash, boy, marked up like that.  Cheap trash. 
C.W. (protesting) Bonnie says it looks good. 
MALCOLM Bonnie, what does she know.  She's just cheap trash herself.  Look what they do to you, and you don't even get your name in the paper-- just pictures put on your skin, by "Bonnie and Clyde"-- (more to himself) --why they're a coupla kids. 
C.W. But, Daddy-- 
MALCOLM I'm just glad your ma ain't alive to see that thing. 
She does so.  CLYDE munches a cookie. 
BONNIE (continuing) Okay, here it is. 
Close-up.  BONNIE--as she reads intensely.  At the beginning of this montage, the camera remains on her face.  Behind her we see the rain on the window. 
BONNIE (reading) "The Story of Bonnie and Clyde" 
You've heard the story of Jesse James-- Of how he lived and died: If you're still in need Of something to read Here's the story of Bonnie and Clyde. 
Now Bonnie and Clyde are the Barrow Gang I'm sure you all have read How they rob and steal And those who squeal Are usually found dying or dead. 
They call them cold-hearted killers; They say they are heartless and mean; But I say this with pride, That I once knew Clyde When he was honest and upright and clean. 
But the laws fooled around, Kept taking him down And locking him in a cell, Till he said to me, "I'll never be free So I'll meet a few of them in hell." 
The road was so dimly lighted; There were no highway signs to guide; But they made up their minds If all roads were blind, They wouldn't give up till they died. 
CUT TO: 
INT. POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
The manuscript is lying on the police blotter.  HAMER picks it up and continues reading it.  He reads it in a halting way: 
HAMER The road gets dimmer and dimmer; Sometimes you can hardly see; But it's fight man to man, And do all you can, For they know they can never be free. 
From heartbreak some people have suffered; From weariness some people have died; But take it all in all, Our troubles are small, Till we get like Bonnie and Clyde. 
Close-up of a newspaper page.  The poem is printed all the way down the length of one column.  On the sound track, BONNIE's voice picks up the recitation: 
BONNIE'S VOICE (O.S.) If a policeman is killed in Dallas, And they have no clue or guide; If they can't find a fiend, They just wipe their slate clean And hang it on Bonnie and Clyde. 
INT. CAR.  CLOSE-UP OF BONNIE.  DAY. 
The day is sunny and we see it through the car window.  She continues reading, but now she reads it directly from the newspaper: 
BONNIE If they try to act like citizens And rent them a nice little flat About the third night They're invited to fight By a sub-gun's rat-tat-tat. 
Some day they'll go down together; They'll bury them side by side; To few it'll be grief-- To the law a relief-- But it's death for Bonnie and Clyde. 
BONNIE finishes the poem, as camera pulls back slightly to show that it is a different day, different clothes and the bandages are gone.  As she stops, she has an expectant and somewhat self-satisfied look. 
Close-up of CLYDE.  His eyes are wide, his mouth open, his face shows surprise and delight and he is on the verge of a giant laugh. 
CLYDE (in gleeful wonder) Damn!  That's me! 
A great laugh comes bursting from him.  Camera widens to take in BONNIE.  She is both startled and delighted by his response. 
CLYDE (continuing) In that poem! 
BONNIE giggles. 
CLYDE (continuing; it is all starting to come out now--his realization that he has made it, that he is the stuff of legend, that he is an important figure) A sub-gun's rat-tat-tat! (he begins to laugh loudly) Right in the paper! 
Close-up BONNIE.  Now laughing too, with a great feeling of joy. 
Two shot.  BONNIE and CLYDE. 
CLYDE Jesse James!  You hear 'bout old Jesse, now you goin' to hear 'bout Clyde! 
He puffs up with air and explodes like a steam valve. 
CLYDE (continuing) Pshhhhhh! 
He grabs BONNIE and chuckles delightedly. 
CLYDE (continuing) Damn, Bonnie!  You musta been one hell of a waitress! 
Close-up.  BONNIE--laughing, her eyes filled with tears. CLYDE's hand wipes them away. 
Two shot. 
CLYDE (shaking his head back and forth like a puppy, just so much glee in him that he can't hold it) Oooooh, that Clyde!  That's my boy, that Clyde! 
He looks at her with love and delight, hugs her tightly. 
