THE BOOK OF ELI 
Written by 
Gary Whitta 
June 21, 2007 
A civilization is destroyed only when its gods are destroyed. 
Emil Cioran 
EXT. FOREST - DAWN 
Bare as all hell. The trees stripped of their bark and white like ghosts. Some torn violently from their roots and felled. 
STARK GRAY SUNLIGHT shafts between the trees, clouded by a creeping fog that obscures the true color of everything. A LIGHT SNOW flutters. The world monochrome, lifeless and cold. 
A CAT prowls across the dead earth. Barely recognizable as the domestic breed it might once have been. Its fur mangy and rank, body rib-thin from starvation. Entirely feral. 
It moves slowly, cautiously. Sniffing the air, scanning the forest, alert. Trusting nothing of its surroundings. It paces across a leaf-strewn clearing, closing stealthily on: 
A DEAD MAN, splayed face-down in the earth. His feet bare. Face frozen in a grim death mask. A GAPING GUNSHOT WOUND in his head, the dried blood caked around it matting his hair. 
As the cat moves closer, approaching warily: 
P.O.V. FROM ACROSS THE CLEARING 
About thirty yards away. Someone is watching. Waiting. SLOW, DEEP BREATHS, heard through a GASMASK RESPIRATOR. 
CLOSE ON A PAIR OF INDUSTRIAL GOGGLES 
The MIRRORED LENSES reflecting the forest clearing, locked onto the cat. The slow, metered breathing continues. 
THE CAT slows, but continues pacing toward the corpse. More cautious than ever. It inches forward, sniffing at the body. 
ON THE WATCHER. Crouched behind the mangled stump of a felled tree. Concealed beneath a camouflaging mesh of leaves, twigs and bracken. A "ghillie suit" of the kind used by snipers. 
THE CAT sniffs at the dead man's hand, frozen by death in a grotesquely contorted claw. The animal still unsure. Looks around again, checking its surroundings for predators. 
THE WATCHER moves almost imperceptibly. The leaves covering him rustle ever so slightly as we hear - just barely - the familiar creaking sound of a BOW STRING BEING DRAWN TAUT. 
THE CAT hears it. Looks up, alert. Staring right at the watcher, but he is too well camouflaged to be seen. An interminable, tense BEAT - is the prey going to flee? 
Finally, the cat turns its attention back to the carcass, nibbling gingerly at the flesh of the man's fingers. 
THE WATCHER looses the arrow. It sails across the clearing and SKEWERS THE CAT clean through. It drops to the ground. 
THE WATCHER STANDS, shaking off the ghillie suit, revealing him to us for the first time. 
He wears a weather-beaten knee-length duster. Hooded sweater with more layers beneath that. Torn pants and scuffed work boots. Everything filthy and battered from years of wear. 
Along with the goggles, his face remains obscured by a DISPOSABLE PAPER DUST MASK and a CRUDELY-FASHIONED FUR HAT with dangling ear flaps that may once itself have been a cat. 
Around his neck he wears a silver SAINT CHRISTOPHER PENDANT hanging from a frayed twine cord. 
His name is ELI. 
He shoulders the bow and walks across the clearing. Crouches beside the dead cat and pulls out the arrow. Wipes the blood from the shaft, then reaches down to collect the body. 
Suddenly the cat SCREECHES AND FLAILS WILDLY! Eli recoils, falling backward, stunned, as the cat - MORTALLY WOUNDED BUT FIGHTING TO THE DEATH - bites and claws desperately at him. 
Eli struggles violently with the cat, wrestling it to the ground and grabbing up a HUNK OF FALLEN BRANCH. He holds the writhing animal down and CLUBS IT until it lays still. 
He sits back, breathing harder than the dustmask will allow. He yanks it down, revealing the dirty, unshaven face beneath. Impossible to tell his age, but certainly not a young man. 
For a moment he just sits there. Then bundles up the dead cat and returns to the mangled tree stump. Folds away his ghillie suit into a nearby RUCKSACK which he hauls up onto his back. 
A canteen dangles from the backpack, a SHOTGUN strapped to its side. Eli reaches down for his final possession - an old SAMURAI SWORD in a scabbard which he slings across his back. 
He gazes up at the sky. A snowflake drifts down and lands on his cheek. He reaches up and brushes it away, leaving a BLACK SMEAR on his face. Not snow after all, but some kind of ASH. 
EXT. FOREST ROAD - DAY 
Eli emerges from the treeline onto the cracked and ruptured asphalt. Lined by more of those ghostly, stripped-bare trees. 
He sniffs the air, breathing it in. Checks the road in both directions. Deserted. A few yards away is the rusted, burned- out chassis of a CAR. He heads toward it. 
The car rests half on the road, half in the adjacent ditch. Stripped of its tires and engine. In the driver's seat is a MUMMIFIED BODY. A BULLET HOLE piercing its forehead. 
Eli regards the body dispassionately. Tries the door handle but it's jammed. He yanks on it harder and eventually wrenches it open. He leans in and checks the man's feet. 
They're bare. No shoes or socks. Eli curses under his breath. 
He leaves the car behind and heads on down the road. As he walks away, we see that the sole of one of his boots has worn loose, held in place now only by a rubber band. 
EXT. ROAD - DAY 
He sits back in his corner and carefully unwraps it. It's an OLD LEATHER-BOUND BOOK. The binding cracked and pages dog- eared, thumbed through a thousand times and more. 
Eli gazes lovingly at it. Lets his fingers play across the beat-up old leather cover. A cherished thing. 
He begins to read, half-hidden in the shadows of the fading sunlight. Silently mouthing the words as he reads them. 
MANY PAGES LATER 
Eli closes the book and parcels it back up as before. Replaces it in his pack, then reaches in for something else. 
A CAR BATTERY. Old and streaked with acid stains. Attached to a tangled bunch of ELECTRICAL WIRING and JUMPER CABLES. Eli reaches into his pocket and produces: 
AN IPOD. Badly beat-up, the case pretty much held together with duct tape. But functional. Eli attaches the battery cable to the iPod and places the headphones in his ears. 
The music plays. Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 20 in D Minor. Eli rests back against the wall and pushes the volume way up. 
THE MUSIC SWELLS. Eli's fingers dance and swoop in the air, as though conducting an orchestra, as he is transported by the music to another world, a world far from this one. 
MORNING 
Sunlight shafts through the window. Eli sits slumped in the exact same position, headphones still in his ears. Asleep. 
The rat scurries up Eli's chest and licks his face. Slowly, he wakes, realizing he fell asleep with his music still on. Checks the battery. It's dead, drained overnight. He frowns. 
He gets to his feet, moves to the window and checks outside. All seems quiet. He loads up his backpack and weapons. 
ELI Come on now. 
The rat scurries up his leg, onto his duster and disappears into the breast pocket. Eli turns and moves out. 
EXT. ABANDONED HOUSE - MORNING 
The gate squeaks shut behind Eli as he exits the front yard. 
He breathes in the air, turns to feel the warm morning sun on his face. Then turns away from it and walks on down the road. 
EXT. ROAD - DAY 
The landscape barren and featureless, road lined with dead trees. Eli walks along the warped and broken asphalt. 
The road is strewn with burned-out cars and debris from a world long dead. A warped metal sign by the side of the road reads: LITTER REMOVAL NEXT TWO MILES BY: "CIRCUIT CITY". 
Up ahead is a HUNCHED FIGURE by the side of the road. Eli arrives to see that it's a YOUNG WOMAN. Bone-thin, dressed in filthy rags. Skin plagued by an unpleasant rash. 
The SHOPPING CART she was pushing has overturned into a roadside ditch, spilling its contents. Blankets, tins of food, old clothes. She's on her knees trying to gather it up. 
She looks up as she sees Eli approaching. Instantly cowers from him, raising her hands to protect herself. Terrified. 
YOUNG WOMAN Oh. Please don't hurt me. Here, take anything you want. You want some food? Take it. 
She offers him a can of pet food with a trembling hand. Eli stands there looking at her. His expression impossible to read behind the mirrored goggles. 
ELI I'm not going to hurt you. 
YOUNG WOMAN That's what the last guys said. 
Eli bends down and picks up a couple of the cart's spilled contents. Steps forward and offers them to her. 
ELI Here. 
She blinks. Unsure. Cautiously she reaches out and takes it. 
YOUNG WOMAN Could you help me? The wheel came off. I can't fix it. Maybe if I could get it out of the ditch. But I can't. 
Eli looks at the cart. It has come to rest in the ditch just inches from a THICK BRACKEN HEDGEROW that lines the road. 
He looks again at the girl. Her faded blouse is unbuttoned, revealing a little cleavage. Her skirt torn along the leg, showing more than a little thigh. Almost deliberate. 
He sniffs the air. Watches the hedgerow warily. Just like the cat he hunted, his senses heightened and on alert. 
Behind the hedge, THREE ROADSIDE BANDITS are crouched, waiting to pounce. Each armed with a crude blunt weapon. They exchange anxious looks. 
ELI sniffs the air again - then backs away from the girl. 
ELI One good thing about no soap any more. You can smell the road agents a mile off. 
The girl's face falls as Eli backs up. The three bandits EMERGE FROM THE HEDGEROW, brandishing their weapons. A couple of them wear old sunglasses and goggles similar to Eli's. 
The BANDIT LEADER grabs the girl by a fistful of hair as he passes, yanking her painfully to her feet. 
BANDIT LEADER Dumb bitch. What did we tell you? 
He pushes her away, she crumples to the road in a heap. 
Eli backs away, but TWO MORE ARMED BANDITS drop from hiding in the trees behind, cutting off his escape, surrounding him. 
BANDIT LEADER What you got there in the pack? 
LATER 
The five bodies are lined neatly in the ditch, half-covered with dirt. The best burial they are going to get. 
Eli stands before them, head bowed in prayer. He speaks quietly and quickly, a speech he has given many times. 
ELI God, the father of mercies, through the death and resurrection of his son has reconciled the world to himself and sent the holy spirit among us for the forgiveness of sins. 
The young woman stands a few yards away, watching him, transfixed. She has never seen anyone like him. 
ELI Through the ministry of the church may he give you pardon and peace, and I absolve you from your sins in the name of the father, and of the son, and of the holy spirit. Amen. 
He turns and walks away down the road, passing the woman. 
YOUNG WOMAN Thank you. You're... a good man. 
ELI There are no good men on the road. 
YOUNG WOMAN Where are you going? 
ELI West. 
YOUNG WOMAN Can... can I come with you? 
He doesn't even turn back to look at her. 
ELI No. 
He walks on, into the horizon. 
EXT. FREEWAY OVERPASS - DAY 
Straddling the desert like a giant, crumbling monument to a long-dead civilization. Eli steadily climbs his way up. 
He comes to an abrupt stop as we realize suddenly that the overpass has COLLAPSED at mid-point. RUSTED IRON RODS jut out from where the roadway has been severed. 
Eli just stands there at the edge for a moment, feeling the wind whip around him, his coat fluttering in the breeze. 
The overpass's collapsed section is now just a MOUNTAINOUS PILE OF RUBBLE that leads down to the road below. 
Eli steps onto the rubble. About to make his way down when he FREEZES. He hears something. The faintest of sounds. He takes cover, peering down at the road beneath the overpass to see: 
TWO PEOPLE walking together on the road. We see everything from ELI'S P.O.V. - too far to make out much detail, but apparently it is a MIDDLE-AGED COUPLE. 
The man pushes along an OLD WHEELBARROW covered by a tarp as the woman, seemingly his wife, walks alongside. The barrow's rusted wheel gives out a plaintive, rhythmic SQUEAK. 
Eli ducks down again as he hears something else. This time much louder. The menacing growl of MOTORCYCLE ENGINES. 
FOUR BIKES IN TOTAL. Riding out of the horizon, closing in on the couple. They see the bikes coming and panic. Try desperately to steer the barrow off the road. 
The bikes screech to a halt and the FOUR RIDERS dismount. Brandishing a variety of weapons. The couple make a run for it but they're quickly chased down and tackled to the ground. 
The woman SCREAMS and struggles helplessly as the bikers swarm over the man like a pack of predatory animals. 
The woman is pulled to the ground and the clothes stripped from her. Eli turns away. He knows what comes next. 
Eli listens as the woman screams and screams. He reaches for his shotgun... hesitates... then withdraws his hand. 
ELI It ain't your concern. Stay on the path. It ain't your concern. Stay on the path. 
Eli repeats it like a mantra. He clearly wants to intervene, but will not permit himself to. Instead, he simply sits and waits grimly as the woman continues to scream for help. And then finally, suddenly, is silenced. 
Down below, the bodies of the man and woman lay dead and bloodied in the dirt. The bikers tear the tarp from the wheelbarrow, spilling its contents onto the asphalt. 
They ferret through the items, scavenging a few items - we don't see what - and stuffing them into an old cloth satchel. They leave the rest strewn in the road and ride off in the direction they came, dust pluming in their wake. 
Eli waits until the sound of the motorcycles has receded into the far distance before emerging from his hiding place. 
EXT. ROAD BENEATH OVERPASS - DAY 
Eli crouches on one knee before the murdered couple. He signs a cross over their ravaged bodies as he mutters a prayer under his breath. Then stands and continues on down the road. 
EXT. ROAD FORK - DAY 
More desolate wasteland as far as the eye can see. The road forks again here. Eli arrives at the junction and stops. 
The road Eli is on leads further into the west. The other fork heads toward a SMALL TOWN just visible on the horizon. 
A HAND-PAINTED SIGN has been driven into the dirt nearby. No words, just a series of CRUDE PICTOGRAMS. A BED. A PLATE OF FOOD. A WATER FAUCET. AN ARROW points toward the town. 
Eli pauses, thinking it over. Retrieves the iPod from his pocket. Clicks the button, but no response. He sighs. 
He turns and heads down the other fork, toward town. 
EXT. DESERT TOWN - OUTSKIRTS - DAY 
A primitive, sprawling village of tents and barn-like structures. Built from corrugated iron, rotted wood, molded plastic, tarpaulin - materials scavenged from the old world. 
Eli raises his hand and holds it outstretched, palm faced downward. The engineer watches it closely for any sign of ticks or tremors, but Eli's hand stays steady as a rock. 
ELI I'm not one of them. 
The sight of the steady hand seems to reassure the engineer a little. Finally, he lowers the shotgun. 
ENGINEER What do you want? 
ELI I'm just passing through. I need some help. I can pay. 
ENGINEER What kinda help? And what kinda pay? 
ELI I'm going to get something out of my pack. Okay? 
The engineer raises the shotgun nervously again. 
ELI I know, I know. Slowly. 
The engineer watches him like a hawk as Eli opens up his pack and pulls out the car battery. When he sees it, he gasps. 
ENGINEER Holy shit. 
Eli places it on the counter. The engineer looks it over with awe, like it's a priceless historical artifact. 
ENGINEER Where'd you find this? 
ELI Years ago, in the outland back east aways. 
ENGINEER Does it work? 
ELI Yeah, it just needs a charge. Can you do it? I got the cables. 
ENGINEER Depends if you also got the coin. 
Eli pulls the Zippo lighter from his pocket. The engineer picks it up, sparks the flint, watches the flame flicker. 
ENGINEER It'll take a couple hours. There's a bar across the street you can wait, they just opened up. 
ELI I'll wait here. 
ENGINEER You don't trust me? 
ELI (SMILES) I don't know you. 
INT. PALLADIUM - AUDITORIUM - DAY 
This once grand theater have been largely gutted - seats torn out, fixtures and fittings stripped, curtains ripped from the stage. But still, there's a sense of grandeur to this place. 
Looking out over the stage, a ROYAL BOX - once the most prestigious seat in the house - has been converted into an OFFICE of sorts. Seats removed and replaced by an ORNATE MAHOGANY DESK facing inward, a CHANDELIER suspended above it. 
The whole set-up is gaudy and ostentatious - the work of someone who wants to project an aura of power and wealth, but has no taste whatsoever. 
A TALL MAN is seated in a battered leather armchair behind the desk, deeply involved in an OLD PAPERBACK BOOK. 
The book's cover is faded and partially torn away, the title still just visible: 7 HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE. 
The man is OLDER than most we've seen. His skin weathered by the elements and by a long life's experience. One of the very few people we've seen in this world close to Eli's age - and unlike everyone else we've seen, he appears healthy and well- groomed. A rich mane of hair, full set of teeth. 
He wears a tattered SUIT AND TIE. None of it matches, everything scavenged from different outfits and eras. But he looks almost civilized. Respectable. His name is CARNEGIE. 
He looks up from his book at the sound of a POLITE COUGH O.S. 
REDRIDGE stands before him. Tall, powerfully built. 
CARNEGIE What is it? 
His accent is like caramel. A RICH, DEEP-SOUTH DRAWL. 
REDRIDGE Survey team just finished up their inspection. It ain't good. 
Carnegie lowers his book. Concerned. 
CARNEGIE How bad is it? 
REDRIDGE Pressure is down again, and going by the new rod they sank levels're lower than they've ever been. 
Carnegie stands. Thinking. This is bad news. 
CARNEGIE How long? 
REDRIDGE Hard to say. Six months, maybe. A little longer if we're careful. But we're already- 
CARNEGIE Halve the rations. 
REDRIDGE We just halved `em last- 
CARNEGIE So halve them again! 
The bikers exchange looks. They understood maybe half the words in that sentence. The lead biker - named HOG - speaks. 
HOG We did good. 
CARNEGIE Well, let's see, shall we? 
Hog tips the satchel's contents out onto Carnegie's desk. 
BOOKS. About a dozen different volumes of all shapes and sizes. Carnegie rifles excitedly through the collection. 
We see various titles as he sorts through them. Treasure Island. The Da Vinci Code. A volume of encyclopedia. The Diary of Anne Frank. Tuesdays with Morrie. 
In amongst the books are a few MAGAZINES. An old issue of OPRAH magazine. A torn copy of SPORTS ILLUSTRATED... 
...And a NEWSWEEK. The cover graphic illustrates OPPOSING NUCLEAR ARSENALS over a world globe. On one side the STARS AND STRIPES, on the other flags indicating a SINO-ISLAMIC ALLIANCE. The headline reads: "IS THERE NO TURNING BACK?" 
CARNEGIE No. No. No. No. No. 
As Carnegie rejects each book with growing disappointment and frustration, it's clear he's looking for a specific volume. 
CARNEGIE It's not here. 
HOG These ain't worth nothin'? 
CARNEGIE When you bring me the book I asked you for, it'll be worth something. 
The bikers exchange more looks. An unspoken conversation. 
HOG We been doin' this a long time now. Had to make a whole lotta corpses to bring you all these books. You want us to keep at it, reckon it's worth more than a few free glasses of that swill you call liquor. 
Carnegie's guards bristle, ready for a confrontation. Carnegie just smiles, always ready to smooth things over. 
CARNEGIE Gentlemen, gentlemen. I urge you once again to take the long view here. When we find this book - and believe me, we will find it - we are going to build a new world. A world far greater, far more righteous than this one. And you and I are going to be perched right on top of it, looking down upon it, masters of all creation! 
As always, his carefully stage-managed rhetoric is delivered with the utmost conviction, every word dripping with passion and persuasion. He's a master salesman, a true huckster. 
CARNEGIE And you know, I think you're absolutely right. (MORE) 
CARNEGIE (cont'd) That is worth more than a few glasses of liquor. A whole lot more. 
He steps forward and looks Hog right in the eye. His gaze like a laser beam, utterly disarming. 
CARNEGIE The book I want is out there somewhere, just waiting to be found. Once there were millions of copies - you only need to find one! Find it and bring it here. And I promise you, you will be rewarded beyond anything you can imagine. 
It's impossible not to be swayed by this guy. He's just so full of fiery passion and infectious belief, you almost want to reach into your pocket and hand over your wallet. 
Hog snatches up his empty satchel. 
HOG This better not be bullshit. 
He turns and marches to the door, the other bikers following. The guards escort them out, only Redridge remains. 
Carnegie slumps back into his chair, frustrated, pissed off. 
REDRIDGE Might help if they knew just what they were looking for. 
CARNEGIE Not one of them can read. How would they even know when they found it? 
REDRIDGE So how's about you just tell me? 
Carnegie and Redridge lock eyes. BEAT. 
REDRIDGE Two years now you been sending these crews into the outland. Burning up gas we can barely spare. For a goddamn book? What the hell kinda book can be worth all this? 
Carnegie ignores him. Stands, walks toward the door. Redridge sighs, gestures toward the books piled on Carnegie's desk. 
REDRIDGE What about these? 
CARNEGIE Put them with the others. 
INT. PALLADIUM - MAIN LOBBY - DAY 
Redridge stands by the marble fireplace, tossing the books into the fire. The flames flicker and leap around the books as their pages blacken and are consumed by the fire. 
INT. ENGINEER WORKSHOP - DAY 
Eli watches as the engineer charges the battery with the gas generator, which chugs noisily. 
He licks his lips, dry as sand. Unscrews his canteen to take a drink, but it's down to its last few drips. 
ELI What's this place across the street? They got any water? 
ENGINEER We got our own underground spring here. Only fresh water in a hundred miles - if's you can pay for it. 
Eli thinks a while longer. Then stands and stuffs his shotgun inside his pack, shoulders his gear and makes for the door. 
ELI I'll be back. 
BARTENDER What about that? 
Eli stuffs the pendant inside his shirt. No way that's for sale. Instead, he reaches into his coat and produces the fur pelts he skinned from the dead cat, lays them out on the bar. 
ELI That's the best I got. 
The bartender takes a pelt and examines it. The mangy cat leaps up onto the bar and approaches. Sniffs at the pelts with suspicion and HISSES at Eli. 
Eli shoos the cat off the bar with a wave of his hand. At the biker's table Hog watches this, not happy about this. 
Satisfied with the pelts, the bartender gathers them up along with the scarf, then turns away toward the back room. 
BARTENDER Solara! 
A TEENAGE GIRL emerges from the back. No older than 16 or 17. Dressed in unflattering work clothes, face grimy, blonde hair tied back in a ponytail. But even through all this, it's clear she is a strikingly beautiful young woman. 
The bartender takes Eli's canteen and hands it to Solara along with a RATION CARD he keeps around his neck. 
BARTENDER Take this out back and get it filled. 
Solara takes the canteen, pausing for a moment to look Eli up and down. Unsure quite what to make of him, but intrigued. There's something about him she can't put her finger on... 
He doesn't look back at her. She turns and exits. 
EXT. DESERT TOWN - MAIN STREET - CONTINUOUS 
Solara exits via the Palladium's STAGE DOOR and walks across the busy street to where TWO OF CARNEGIE'S ARMED MEN stand guard around an ENCLOSURE OF CHAIN-LINK FENCE TOPPED WITH RAZOR WIRE. TOWNSFOLK wait in line with bowls and buckets. 
One of the guards recognizes Solara and lets her cut to the front of the line. He punches two holes in her ration card and lets her inside the chain-link enclosure. 
Inside is an OLD RUSTED SPIGOT attached to a pipe emerging from the earth. Solara cranks hard on the handle - it takes a few pulls before the water comes, and then only at a weak trickle; it will take a while to fill the canteen. 
INT. PALLADIUM - MAIN LOBBY - CONTINUOUS 
As Eli sits at the bar, a SHADOW comes into view and looms large over him. Hog is standing behind him, glaring, cutting a menacing figure in his armored cycle leathers. 
Solara senses trouble brewing and moves off, taking Eli's canteen away into the back room. 
HOG That was my cat. 
Eli doesn't turn. Just looks straight ahead. Impossible to read him behind those mirrored goggles. Utterly inscrutable. 
ELI Fine specimen. 
HOG I saw you push him off the bar. 
ELI I didn't push him. 
HOG You raised your hand at him. 
ELI Sorry. It won't happen again. 
The bartender looks at Hog nervously. 
BARTENDER Hey, how about another drink, Hog? 
HOG That cat's been comin' in here for nigh on two years. It got more right to be here than you. Who the fuck do you think you are? 
ELI I don't want any trouble. 
Hog grabs him by the arm. 
HOG Well, that's too bad, `cause- 
Blink. Suddenly Hog's head is pinned to the bar by nothing more than Eli's thumb. Pressed deep into a nerve cluster in his neck. Eli leans in close as Hog whimpers, paralyzed. 
ELI I know you. Murderer of innocent travelers on the road. You're going to spend eternity drowning in a lake of fire for the things that you've done. Did you know that? 
The other bikers stand and approach, the OTHER CUSTOMERS following suit. Eli senses the trouble gathering behind him. 
ELI You go on back to your table and I'll be on my way. All right? 
It's all Hog can do to just barely nod his head. Eli releases his thumb. Hog staggers backward, gasping for breath. 
Eli stands and makes toward the door, but the bikers and other patrons have moved to block his exit. 
BURLY PATRON You push Hog, you push all of us. 
Eli sighs, looks down at the floor. He's been pushed one time too many today. For the first time, we see anger in his face. 
ELI Cursed be the ground because of you. By toil shall you eat of it. Thorns and thistles shall it sprout for you. From the ground were you taken. For dust you are. 
The patrons look at Eli strangely. Who is this guy? 
Eli reaches back and draws the samurai sword. Carves a line in the dirt at his feet with the tip of the blade. 
ELI And to dust you shall return. 
CARNEGIE I've met walkers before. Not a particularly civilized bunch. Some have even taken to eating their own kind, did you know that? You wouldn't be one of those savages now, would you? 
Carnegie's gunmen look him over, inspecting him warily. 
CARNEGIE GUNMAN He ain't got the shakes. 
Carnegie's confident gaze remains fixed on Eli throughout. 
CARNEGIE Good. This is a civilized town. Under God. Do you know what that means? 
Eli can't help but react at the mention of that word. 
CARNEGIE It means we have laws here. Laws set down long before any of us ever walked this earth. And one of them is, you don't eat the flesh of your brother. Else you're no better than an animal. And not welcome here. 
Eli doesn't respond. Just stands there in Carnegie's gaze. 
CARNEGIE So what's your business here, friend? Walkers don't usually come into town less they want something. 
ELI I had a battery needed charging and a canteen needed filling. I didn't come here looking for trouble. 
Barely noticeable, Carnegie gestures to one of the gunmen, who nods in acknowledgement and leaves. 
CARNEGIE Well, you sure as hell found it. Do you know who I am? 
ELI No. 
CARNEGIE My name's Carnegie. I own this bar. I own the whole town. You've never heard of me? 
ELI That's you out there on the street. 
CARNEGIE Remarkable likeness, isn't it? You'd never guess half the men who built it were blind. A small tribute from a grateful people. I was deeply touched. 
ELI You had slaves build you a monument to yourself? 
The mention of that word rankles Carnegie. He walks around the desk toward Eli, waves an admonishing finger at him. 
CARNEGIE Don't call them slaves. That's an old word. I'm not a slaver. I'm trying to help these people. 
Carnegie can't help himself - once again he is in his natural element, spinning the argument his way, pitching. Selling. 
CARNEGIE In the outland the sightless are preyed upon like sick animals. Here at least they're protected. They do the essential work others don't want. And in return they eat, they drink, they survive. Last year, a couple of them even got married - performed the ceremony myself. (BEAT) You see, I'm not exploiting these people - I'm saving them! Any one of them is free to leave whenever they wish. But here they stay. And they thank me every single day for their salvation! 
An impressive, impassioned performance. He sounds just like an old-school TV evangelist. But Eli is unmoved. 
ELI It's none of my business what you do here. Like you said, it's your town. I just want to be on my way. 
CARNEGIE What's your name, walker? 
Eli doesn't respond. Just stands there. 
CARNEGIE All right, I guess we just call you Walker. Don't see too many folks your age these days. You lived in the world before? You can read? 
ELI I read every day. 
CARNEGIE That's good. Good man. We educated folk, we need to stick together, if we're ever going to rebuild this world. People like you and me, we're the future. 
ELI What do you want with me? 
CARNEGIE Straight to the point. I like that. Fact is, you could be in a lot of trouble. This is a peaceful town. You walk in here, armed, and the next thing a dozen of my good citizens are dead. I've hanged men for less. I could hang you. (BEAT) Or, you could come work for me. 
ELI What? 
CARNEGIE I never once saw anyone handle themselves the way you did down there in that bar. I don't know where you learned it, but I sure as hell could use it. 
ELI I'm not interested. 
CARNEGIE People who work for me can live better than any walker ever dreamed. Real beds, clean water, hot food. Women, even. You could do a lot worse, my friend. 
ELI I'm not your friend. And I'm not staying. I got someplace I need to be. Out west. 
CARNEGIE West? There is nothing west. It's all gone, a long time ago. 
ELI I've been told different. 
CARNEGIE By who? 
Eli doesn't reply. Carnegie smiles, dials up the charm. 
CARNEGIE All right, look. I'm going to make you an offer of goodwill. Stay the night, think it over. Try a little local hospitality. We'll talk again in the morning. If you're still not interested, you're free to go. No hard feelings. 
ELI Thank you for your offer. But I'd prefer to just leave right now. So you can either let me out of here, or I can kill my way out. 
The gunmen bristle, exchange nervous looks. Carnegie appears unfazed. He smiles. BEAT. He looks to the gunman at the door. 
CARNEGIE Let him go. 
The gunman opens the door. Eli turns and exits. 
As she turns for the door: 
ELI You're Carnegie's woman? 
CLAUDIA Why do you ask? 
ELI Just making conversation is all. Haven't had one of those in a while. Not a real one, leastways. 
Claudia smiles. Neither has she. 
CLAUDIA He found me in the outland. I was sixteen, my family had been... well, they were gone. There was just me and my baby. 
ELI You had a baby? 
CLAUDIA I'd met some men on the road. Bad men. They... 
BEAT. She trails off, struggling with this unhappy memory. Eli gets it, raises a hand reassuringly. 
ELI It's all right. 
CLAUDIA I was on the road for a year after that. I couldn't feed myself, let alone my little girl. And then Bill found us and he promised he'd take care of us. He told me he was going to make a place where we could be safe. And he did. He did all that. He built this whole town. He kept us safe. And he raised that child like she was his own. He's been so good to both of us. He saved us, really. 
There's a bittersweet quality to Claudia's words. As though there is more to the story than she is telling. 
Eli pulls out a chair at the table, offers it to her. 
ELI You want to eat some? 
She smiles and sits. Eli sits across from her. 
ELI When did you go blind? In the war? You get caught in a flash? 
CLAUDIA No, I was born this way. I think I'm lucky like that. 
ELI Lucky? 
CLAUDIA It's not like I ever knew what I'm missing. I was already used to being like this by the time... by the time it all happened. So I got around pretty good even when I was on my own. And now it's easy. I know every creaky old floorboard in here, and it's not like I ever go any place else. Bill would never allow it. He worries about me so much. 
Again, bittersweet. The sense that Claudia feels trapped. Thinking about it begins to upset her. She gets up. 
CLAUDIA I should go. He'll be wondering where I am. 
Eli stands, escorts her to the door and opens it. 
CLAUDIA Thank you. I enjoyed our conversation. 
ELI So did I. 
Eli closes the door, then sits back at the table. 
INT. PALLADIUM - CARNEGIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Carnegie washes, looking at himself in the old dressing-room mirror. He sees Claudia enter the room in its dim reflection. 
CARNEGIE You took your time in there. How long does it take to deliver a plate of food and some water? 
A subtly accusing tone. It makes Claudia nervous. 
CLAUDIA He wanted to talk. 
CARNEGIE Oh? What about? 
CLAUDIA Nothing really. He asked me what it was like to be blind. 
CARNEGIE He tell you anything about him? 
CLAUDIA No. I don't think he likes to talk about himself much. 
CARNEGIE Yeah, I got that. 
Claudia moves to the bedside, begins to undress. 
CLAUDIA I don't think he's going to change his mind by morning. I don't think he's going to stay. 
CARNEGIE What makes you say that? 
CLAUDIA Just strikes me as the kind of man who's of a mind, is all. Doesn't seem like the type to go changing it once it's set. 
CARNEGIE Well, we'll just see about that. 
CLAUDIA You saw him. He's not like the others. You won't be able to smooth- talk him and wrap him around your finger like you usually do. 
CARNEGIE Who said anything about me? (BEAT) I'm sending Solara. 
Claudia reacts suddenly to this. Shocked and angry. 
CLAUDIA You're doing what? CARNEGIE You know how often these walkers get laid? Never. Least not by anything living or willing. Girl like her can be very persuasive. 
She looks down, sad. She likes this guy. She doesn't want him to leave. Eli can sense her sadness. 
ELI Are you hungry? 
SOLARA I guess a little. 
ELI There's some food on the table over there. Let's eat. 
She walks over to where the dinner tray is covered by a small cloth. She whips it away - to reveal ELI'S RAT nibbling on a piece of cheese. Solara SHRIEKS and backs away. 
The rat scurries down the table leg and leaps up onto Eli's shoulder, just as afraid of her as she is of it. 
ELI It's okay, it's okay. He's with me. (to the rat) Don't be afraid, pal. This is Solara. She's our friend. 
Solara approaches warily. Reaches out and strokes him. The rat scurries up her arm. She almost shrieks again. 
ELI It's okay. It means he likes you. 
SOLARA It does? ELI Trust me, if he didn't like you, you'd know about it. 
Solara pets the rat on her shoulder. Then: 
SOLARA Did you really mean that? 
ELI Mean what? 
SOLARA That I'm your friend. 
BEAT. Eli finds himself surprised that he admitted such a thing. When is the last time he had someone he could call a friend? He can't even remember. 
ELI Sure. 
She smiles. Giggles as the rat's whiskers tickle her ear. 
Eli breaks the cheese in two and gives half to Solara. She's about to eat but stops as Eli clasp his hands in prayer. 
ELI Our father, we thank you for this meal which you have been so gracious to place before us. 
Unsure of what to do, Solara mimics Eli, putting her hands together and bowing her head. 
ELI We thank you for a warm bed and a roof over our heads on a cold night such as this. (BEAT) And we thank you for the gift of friendship in these hard times. 
Solara looks at him, touched by that. 
ELI Amen. (BEAT) You say that last part too. 
SOLARA Amen. And now we eat? 
ELI And now we eat. 
They sit and eat together, sharing the simple meal. 
PULL OUT from the window as they eat, away from the theater. Away from the town and its flickering points of torchlight. Moving farther and farther away until the entire town is consumed by the darkness of the world. 
EXT. DESERT TOWN - MAIN STREET - DAWN 
The pale sun rises over the town. To establish: 
INT. PALLADIUM - DINING ROOM - MORNING 
What was once the theater's COSTUME ROOM - OLD MANNEQUINS still stand around in the corners, creating an eerie feel. 
Carnegie and Claudia sit at a DINING TABLE, eating breakfast in silence. A third place is set, but no-one is seated there. 
Solara enters and sits down without a word. 
CARNEGIE Good morning, Solara. 
Solara doesn't say anything. 
CARNEGIE I said good morning, Solara. 
SOLARA Morning, dad. 
CARNEGIE How was your night? Did you sleep well? 
Claudia appears perturbed by Carnegie's subtle probing. Solara flashes him a frosty look. 
SOLARA I did like you asked. Isn't that what you really want to know? Just come out and say it. 
Carnegie glares at her sternly. 
CARNEGIE You don't speak to your father like that. When I ask you a civil question, I expect a civil answer. 
Solara lowers her head, scorned. Carnegie continues eating. 
CARNEGIE Did he say anything? 
EXT. PALLADIUM - CONTINUOUS 
Carnegie races from the lobby entrance and looks up at the open window to Eli's room. He could have easily jumped. 
Redridge emerges onto the street behind him. 
REDRIDGE Something wrong, boss? 
CARNEGIE Something wrong? Something wrong? The walker's gone! 
REDRIDGE That can't be. I had a man outside his room the whole time. 
CARNEGIE He jumped out the window, you idiot! You didn't think to put a man outside the fucking window? (beat; fuming) Find him. Now! 
REDRIDGE Boss, he could be anywhere. He... (REALIZATION) A battery. Didn't he say something about a battery? 
They turn to face the engineer's storefront - just as ELI EMERGES ONTO THE STREET, shotgun still in his hand. 
EVERYBODY FREEZES. Like a wild west stand-off. Redridge's fingers play over the butt of the pistol on his hip. 
BEAT as time hangs perfectly still for a second... and then ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE. 
Redridge draws and FIRES, SHATTERING A PARKING METER just inches from Eli and showering quarters all over the sidewalk. 
Eli rushes along the sidewalk, RETURNING FIRE. The shot wings Redridge in the shoulder. He goes down, wounded. 
Carnegie dives for cover as FOUR MORE GUNMEN rush from the theater. Carnegie waves frantically in Eli's direction. 
CARNEGIE Go! Go! 
They spot Eli sprinting away and rush off in pursuit. 
Carnegie gets to his feet and storms back inside the theater. 
INT. PALLADIUM - DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Solara and Claudia watch through the window. Turn suddenly when they hear the door slam open behind them. 
Carnegie stands in the doorway, glaring at them. 
EXT. DESERT TOWN - MAIN STREET - CONTINUOUS 
LOCAL RESIDENTS scream and rush to and fro in panic as Eli darts along the boardwalk. 
CARNEGIE'S GUNMEN pursue, firing their rifles wildly on the run. The bullets splinter wood, pierce barrels and crates, narrowly missing Eli as he dashes, keeping his head down. 
Eli aims the shotgun and FIRES without even looking. The shot HITS A GUNMAN SQUARE IN THE CHEST, dropping him to the dirt. 
Eli hits the deck, diving for cover behind a JUNKPILE as more gunfire ricochets all around him. He takes a moment to collect himself, reloads the shotgun. 
The three remaining gunmen close in on the junkpile warily. 
Eli signs a cross over himself with the shotgun, looks to the sky and offers up a silent prayer. Then emerges from around the junkpile back into the street. All three gunmen OPEN FIRE, their bullets whipping past on either side of him. 
In one swift motion Eli raises the shotgun and FIRES. Three shots in quick succession. And then there is silence. Smoke wisps from the shotgun's sawn-off barrel. 
The three gunmen LIE DEAD IN THE STREET. One hit square in the chest. The other two each have maybe one half of their heads remaining. 
Eli looks around. He's right at the end of the main road, the perimeter where the town meets the open desert. He's free. 
And then, A GIRL'S SCREAM. Distant but unmistakable. 
Eli whips around. In the upstairs window of the theater, Carnegie shoves Solara roughly against the wall. Barking angrily at her, shaking her. 
Eli looks at the road. Then up at the theater. Then back to the road again. 
ELI (quietly; to himself) It ain't your concern. Stay on the path. 
But he sounds less resolute now than before. Until today this was always a simple decision for him to make. But now... 
ELI Dammit... 
He marches back toward the theater, stepping over the fallen bodies of the gunmen, re-loading his shotgun as he goes. 
EXT. PALLADIUM - CONTINUOUS 
Redridge finally manages to clamber back up to his feet, wincing as he clutches his painful shoulder wound. 
He looks up just in time to see Eli coming right at him. Without breaking stride, he COLD-COCKS Redridge in the jaw with the shotgun, sending him back to the deck, out cold. 
INT. PALLADIUM - DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Eli kicks the door wide open, finds Carnegie holding Solara against the wall. She sobs, terrified. Eli levels the shotgun at Carnegie's head. 
ELI Let her go. 
CARNEGIE That cannon of yours casts a pretty wide net. I don't reckon you can hit me without hitting her. 
She runs out across the forecourt, onto the road. 
A FEMALE FIGURE is hunched by the side of the road about fifty yards up ahead. Hard to see what she's doing from here. 
SLUMPED FEMALE Hello? Is anybody there? 
Solara starts walking toward her. 
The woman has her back to Solara. She's on her knees, muttering to herself. Gathering objects up from the road. 
As Solara moves closer, we see that the woman is struggling with an UPTURNED SHOPPING CART. Stuck in a roadside ditch, its contents spilled out next to a few BRACKEN BUSHES. 
We see her face now. It's the SAME YOUNG WOMAN from before. The same shopping cart. The same trap. 
SOLARA Are you all right? 
The woman looks around, sees Solara standing nearby. She's shocked to see that it's a girl. 
YOUNG WOMAN Oh. Yes, I'm fine. Thank you. You go along, I'll be okay. 
SOLARA You look like you need some help. 
YOUNG WOMAN No, really! I'm fine. Really... I need a man to help. Not you. You just keep along. Please. 
The woman seems anxious to get rid of her. Tries to indicate the threat silently with her eyes, but Solara doesn't get it. 
SOLARA It'll just take a minute. 
She steps into the ditch and starts to haul the cart out. 
YOUNG WOMAN Really, it's fine! Please! 
Too   late. THREE ROAD BRIGANDS POUNCE FROM THE BUSHES. Every bit   as brutish and horrifying as the group that Eli killed on the   road in our opening. They grab Solara and drag her from the   road into the desert, screaming and kicking all the way. 
YOUNG WOMAN Let her go! She ain't got nothing! 
The BRIGAND LEADER looks Solara up and down lustfully. 
BRIGAND LEADER I ain't too sure about that. 
Solara is reviled by the man. He's filthy, his stench overpowering. One eye missing, just a dark, empty socket. He licks his lips, revealing a mouth almost devoid of teeth. 
YOUNG WOMAN This wasn't the deal! 
The brigand leader lashes out and grabs her by the throat. 
BRIGAND LEADER Shut your mouth, bitch. You oughta be grateful you're getting a break. 
He releases her. She slumps to the dirt, whimpering. 
BRIGAND LEADER Never did care much for that dried- up old snatch anyhow. 
He looks back to the struggling Solara. 
BRIGAND LEADER This one, though... this one looks fresh. You a virgin? 
She says nothing, just sobs helplessly. 
BRIGAND LEADER Well, let's find out. 
He unbuckles his pants, lets them drop to his ankles. 
We hear a sound. It's hard to place. Something like a THHUP. 
The brigand leader is frozen in shock. His face goes pale, the blood draining from it. The two bandits holding Solara look at their leader in dismay. Staring down at his crotch. 
A quiet whimper escapes from his lips as he looks down. 
There is an ARROW IMBEDDED IN HIS CROTCH. What was once down there is now just a bloody mess of mangled meat. More blood streams down his thighs. A real horror show. 
He staggers backward, shrieking. Hands shaking. Staring down at the awful wound from which the long arrow shaft extends. 
The two other brigands release Solara and whip around, scanning the horizon. They see nothing. One of them has a RIFLE. He unslings it and aims it frantically around. 
Then they both see it. Coming right at them. The most terrifying thing either has ever seen. 
ELI, WALKING TOWARD THEM FROM THE ROAD, OUT OF THE SUN. His silhouette distorted in the rippling heat. An avenging angel. 
He pulls another arrow and draws it back as the rifle bandit trains his weapon on him, finger tightening on the trigger. 
Eli SHOOTS. The arrow sails through the air and RIGHT INTO THE RIFLE BARREL. The feathers at the end of the shaft plugging the muzzle tight. 
Rifle bandit pulls the trigger. The gun EXPLODES, BLOWING HIS HANDS CLEAN OFF. He falls to the ground, screaming. 
Eli only had two arrows. He shoulders the bow and draws his sword. All the remaining brigand has is a small knife. The two now square off at arm's length. A hopeless mismatch. 
BEAT. The knife brigand hesitates, trembling. And then RUSHES ELI WITH THE KNIFE. Eli deftly sidesteps, flourishes the sword. So quick it almost seems like he didn't move at all. 
Eli casts off the camouflage net and walks toward the dead prairie dog. Solara just stands there, appalled. 
SOLARA You killed it! That cute little thing! 
Eli picks up the dead animal by the scruff. 
ELI It's good eating, is what it is. 
He yanks out the bloody arrow. Solara looks away. 
When she turns back, Eli is standing right there, holding the dead animal in front of her face. She YELPS in surprise and staggers backward, falling on her butt. 
SOLARA That's not funny. 
ELI If you're going to be on the road, you can't be picky about what you eat. You eat what's there to eat. 
SOLARA I'm not eating that. 
ELI (SHRUGS) More for me. 
EXT. WASTELAND CAVE - DUSK 
Eli and Solara sit in the mouth of a desert cave, around a flickering campfire. The prairie dog roasts on a spit. 
Eli digs his knife into the carcass, the blade comes out clean. It's done. He clasps his hands together and gazes down penitently at the ground. 
ELI Father, we thank you for your generosity in providing us with this meal. Bless this food to our use and us to thy service, and keep us ever mindful of the needs of others. Amen. 
Eli carves off a piece of meat. Juicy and succulent. He bites into it, teasing Solara by making a show of how good it tastes. He feeds a piece to the rat perched on his shoulder. 
Solara tries to appear uninterested, but she's starved. 
SOLARA What does that taste like? 
He takes another bite, thinks on this as he chews. 
ELI Tastes like chicken. 
She tries to fight the temptation to try it... but she can't. She reaches out and tears off a piece. Sniffs at it, takes a small bite... then quickly wolfs down the rest. Eli smiles. 
As she eats, she gestures toward Eli's Saint Christopher. 
SOLARA What is that? 
Eli reaches up and touches his hand to it. 
ELI It's a Saint Christopher medal. 
SOLARA Who's Saint Christopher? Is he a character from your book? 
Eli smiles and shakes his head. 
ELI Christopher was a man who lived a long time ago. He wanted to be a good man, he wanted to help people. So he would stand by a river that had no bridge and carry people across. He was a big strong man and there was no one he couldn't carry. 
Solara listens, rapt. Eli is a good storyteller. 
ELI Then one day a young child came to the river and asked to be carried across. Christopher tried to carry him but he was too heavy. He was just a small boy but he was heavier than any man he had ever carried. The boy explained that he was the son of God, and that he was so heavy because he bore all the sins of the world. After that, Christopher was able to carry him across and when they got to the other side the boy baptized him in the river. And that's how he became a saint. Later on, he was known as the patron saint of travelers. 
SOLARA What is a saint, anyway? 
ELI It's someone who spent their life doing good things for others. Enough that God himself took a special interest in them. 
Solara looks at Eli tenderly, with admiration. 
SOLARA Someone like you. 
Eli looks away, down at the ground. He appears sad. 
ELI No. Not like me. Saints ain't killers. And I done too much of that. Spilled too much blood. 
BEAT. No words, just the flickering firelight. 
SOLARA Will you read me some more from the book? 
ELI It's late. You should get some sleep. Maybe tomorrow. 
LATER - NIGHT 
The fire down to its last embers. Eli sleeps next to his pack, half-hidden in the looming shadows of the cave. His hat and goggles hung up for the night on the hilt of his sword. 
Solara sleeps nearby... then opens her eyes. Not asleep after all. She looks over at Eli - his face hidden in shadow and so impossible to tell if he's asleep or awake. 
SOLARA Eli? 
No response. Quietly, she moves forward, kneeling by his side. She opens his coat and checks the pockets. Empty. 
She goes deeper, peeling back the layers of clothing, stealthily frisking him. She finds something on his lapel, hidden under several layers, that causes her to stop. 
Eli wheels around and jabs a scolding finger at her. 
ELI You want to stay on this road with me, don't ever let me hear you take his name in vain like that again. 
Solara is surprised by the severity of his reaction. 
SOLARA Sorry. 
Eli resumes walking. 
ELI God has a reason for everything being the way it is. It's not always apparent to us. But it is his plan nonetheless. 
SOLARA So, is he talking to you right now? Telling you where to go? 
ELI It's not like that. It's kinda hard to explain. I'm guided by faith. 
SOLARA I don't know what that word means. 
BEAT as Eli thinks on how to explain it. 
ELI It means you know something even though you don't know it. 
Solara thinks about this, shakes her head. 
SOLARA That doesn't make any sense at all. 
ELI It doesn't have to. 
They walk on. 
EXT. HOUSE - DAY 
On the outskirts of a small town that lies in ruins. Almost every building burned or reduced to rubble. 
Except for one SMALL HOUSE. The building is damaged and worn but in mostly decent condition. It stands out among its surroundings for being the only structure still intact. 
The windows are BARRED. The outer structure fortified with SHEET METAL and other custom patch-ups. The whole plot surrounded by a CHAIN-LINK FENCE TOPPED WITH RAZOR WIRE. 
Eli and Solara crouch behind a pile of rubble nearby. 
SOLARA I don't get it. It looks almost... normal. Like nothing ever happened. How can it still be out here? 
ELI I don't know. 
SOLARA Maybe we should look inside. There might be food. 
BEAT as Eli considers. Then stands and unhooks his shotgun. 
ELI Stay behind me. 
They approach the house cautiously. Arrive at the perimeter fence. There's a gate held in place by a PADLOCK. 
Eli pulls a pair of BOLT-CUTTERS from his belt and snips the padlock free. Swings open the gate with a metallic SQUEAK. 
They move inside, up the garden path. Though the soil in the yard is dead, it's been carefully raked and tended. WEEDS arranged in thoughtful patterns, like real flowers. 
SOLARA This is weird. 
ELI Yeah. 
Eli steps forward, his foot planting on a CRACKED PAVING STONE that shifts almost imperceptibly under his feet. Accompanied by a barely audible SOUND. He looks down. 
ELI Shit. 
SOLARA What? 
A ROPE NOOSE suddenly whips around their feet, tightening at their ankles and YANKING THEM UPSIDE-DOWN INTO THE AIR. Eli drops his shotgun to the ground. 
They hang there for a moment, twisting in the breeze. 
The front door to the house SWINGS OPEN to reveal... 
AN ELDERLY COUPLE. The woman's gray hair tied into a neat bun. The man bald, squinting through wire-frame glasses. They look like the couple from Grant Wood's "American Gothic." 
Instead of a pitchfork the man holds a 12-GAUGE RIOT SHOTGUN which he keeps trained from the hip on Eli and Solara. 
They step outside, regarding their new visitors carefully. The man seems more suspicious than his wife. He drags Eli's shotgun toward him with his foot, hands it to his wife. 
ELDERLY MAN Who are you? 
ELI My name is Eli. This is Solara. We're travelers, that's all. We don't mean you any harm. 
ELDERLY MAN You cut my padlock. I saw you. Trying to break into our house. 
ELI I'm sorry. We didn't think anybody lived here. We thought it was abandoned, like all the rest. 
This seems to annoy the man. 
ELI They're worse than that. 
SOLARA What? 
ELI They didn't just kill these people. (BEAT) They ate them. 
Solara is stunned. 
SOLARA They what? ELI There's a disease in the outland. Spread by eating human meat. It affects the brain. Dementia, loss of motor function. Did you notice the old woman's hands shaking? She's got it. They've both got it. 
SOLARA Oh my God... 
INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Eli and Solara re-enter. Solara looks at George nervously. He's still carrying that shotgun. 
Martha's voice drifts in from the nearby KITCHEN. 
MARTHA (O.S.) I found some meat for those sandwiches! Are you hungry? 
SOLARA No! Thank you! 
ELI We really must be going. 
GEORGE So soon? 
An unnerving glint in his eye. Eli moves toward the door. 
ELI Yes, I'm afraid so. 
As he gets to the door, George moves to intercept. Hard to tell if he's blocking his path or moving to open the door for him. A tense BEAT. 
Martha emerges from the kitchen. 
MARTHA Are you sure you won't stay? 
ELI Yes. Thank you again for the tea. 
Eli stares George down. Reluctantly, George steps aside. Eli opens the door and escorts Solara outside. 
EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 
Eli and Solara emerge into the sunlight. Walk down the garden path. And FREEZE IN THEIR TRACKS. 
THE ARMED VEHICLES ARE COMING. Driving toward them out of the horizon in a hazy cloud of dust. 
SOLARA Oh no... it's my dad. It's his men. 
ELI Are you sure? 
SOLARA I recognize the cars. 
ELI Back inside. 
Eli bundles Solara back into the house. George stands in the doorway, squinting at the approaching convoy. 
INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
George follows them back in, furious. 
GEORGE What did you bring upon us? 
MARTHA George? What's wrong? 
GEORGE A whole convoy of armed degenerates, that's what's wrong! Coming here for them! And they led them right to us! 
Martha rushes to the window, pulls aside the lace curtain. Outside she sees the armored vehicles SCREECHING TO A HALT. 
The men spill out from the vehicles and take cover behind them, locking and loading weapons. 
MARTHA Oh no they don't... 
She rushes across the room, teeth gritted with determination. 
GEORGE Martha, what are you doing? 
MARTHA I finally got this house just the way I want it. I'm not going to let anybody tear it apart! 
She goes to the couch and yanks off the seat cushions. Underneath is a WOODEN LID which she throws open to reveal: 
A HUGE CACHE OF WEAPONS. Automatic rifles. Shotguns. Pistols. Grenades. And enough ammunition for everything. 
She pulls out an M-60 MACHINE-GUN, slings the strap over her shoulder and locks in a CHAIN OF BULLETS. She looks like a post-apocalyptic Martha Stewart. 
SOLARA Where did you get all this stuff? 
George pulls out an AK-47, slots in a magazine. 
Solara sits across the room, in the corner, sobbing. 
ELI It's all right. We're going to be all right. Trust me. 
MORE GUNFIRE splinters the window frame above his head. 
ELI You remember what I told you about faith? 
She nods. 
Eli peeks out and FIRES OUT THE WINDOW, dropping one of the enemy gunmen with a crack shot. Ducks back down as the return fire impacts around him. 
ELI We're going to get out of this alive. Both of us. I know. 
SOLARA Because God told you? 
ELI Because God told me. 
Amidst all the chaos and gunfire, George has been listening to this exchange. 
GEORGE What about us? 
BEAT. 
ELI He didn't mention you. 
BEAT. George chambers a round and RESUMES FIRING. 
EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 
Redridge's men continue the hail of gunfire. Six of them dead now, six more still standing. No lessening of fire from inside the house. They're losing. 
Redridge races between the vehicles, ducking from gunfire until he makes it to the back of the Dodge Caravan. Pops the trunk and pulls out a ROCKET-PROPELLED GRENADE LAUNCHER. 
He sets it on his shoulder, rests on the trunk to steady his aim. And FIRES. The rocket screams toward its target, tearing through the chain fence and TEARING AN ENTIRE CORNER FROM THE HOUSE in a fiery explosion. 
INT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 
Filled with smoke. The sounds of COUGHING. 
Dazed, George pushes his way through the smoke, waving his arms to clear it. A BLOODY GASH on his forehead. 
GEORGE Martha? Martha! 
He finds her lying on the tile floor in what remains of the kitchen. Or at least her top half. The rest of her is gone. 
George slumps to his knees with tear-filled eyes. Takes his wife tenderly by the hand for a moment. 
Then the anger returns. He gets up and turns, consumed now by a wild fury. Firing with rage over the torn brick wall. He CLIPS ANOTHER GUNMAN IN THE HEAD, killing him. 
George moves back toward the LIVING ROOM, firing as he goes. 
EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 
Redridge moves between the cars again, staying behind cover. George's hail of gunfire has them pinned down. 
REDRIDGE We got any more of those RPGs? 
CARNEGIE GUNMAN #3 That was it. 
REDRIDGE Screw this. 
Redridge jumps into the driver's seat of the minivan, turns the key in the ignition. Jams the accelerator down with the butt of his rifle, then shifts the transmission into DRIVE. 
REDRIDGE Get clear! 
The gunmen leap clear as the minivan HURTLES TOWARD THE HOUSE, engine roaring. CRASHES THROUGH THE CHAIN FENCE. 
INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Eli looks up from cover and see the van coming RIGHT AT HIM. He dives clear as the van CRASHES THROUGH THE WALL INTO THE LIVING ROOM. It SMASHES INTO THE FAR WALL, finally coming to a stop. 
More dust and debris, more coughing. Eli tries to get up, but winces in pain. Puts his hand to his side, it comes back WET WITH BLOOD. A bad wound. He covers it with his coat, stands and moves through the smoke. 
ELI Solara? 
SOLARA (O.S.) Eli! 
He finds her in the smoke. She embraces him. 
ELI Are you all right? 
SOLARA I'm fine. 
As the smoke clears, Solara sees George PINNED AGAINST THE WALL BY THE MINIVAN. His body crushed. Dead. 
SOLARA Oh God... 
Eli gathers up his stuff into his pack. Shoulders it and goes to pick up his sword, but Redridge puts his boot on it. 
REDRIDGE No weapons. 
Eli still has a half-dozen guns trained on him. He turns and walks away, toward the road. As he passes Solara: 
ELI I told you we'd both live. Now do you have faith? 
A tear runs down Solara's cheek as she watches him walk away. 
Redridge grabs her by the arm and pulls her toward the vehicles as his men load up and prepare to move out. 
IN THE REARMOST VEHICLE 
Solara sits in the back seat, staring out the rear window as it drives down the road at the tail end of the convoy. 
She watches as Eli moves away down the road, getting smaller and smaller until he is just a speck on the horizon. 
She bursts into floods of uncontrollable tears. 
LATER 
Solara in the back seat, calmer now. The tears dried on her cheeks. She sits staring blankly at the DRIVER in front. 
And then she LUNGES VIOLENTLY FORWARD. Clawing and biting at the driver, who struggles to fight her off. His hands come off the wheel and the car FISHTAILS WILDLY. 
REDRIDGE'S VEHICLE 
The DRIVER sees something odd in the rear-view mirror. 
DRIVER What the hell...? 
Redridge turns to see the car behind VEERING ERRATICALLY then SLAMMING ON THE BRAKES, stopping in the middle of the road. 
REDRIDGE Stop, stop! 
The car screeches to a halt. Redridge watches through the rear window as the driver's side door opens and the driver is KICKED OUT ONTO THE ASPHALT. 
The door closes again, the engine revs and the car TURNS AROUND, racing back down the road in the direction it came. 
REDRIDGE Shit. Turn around! 
DRIVER We ain't got the gas for it! 
REDRIDGE She's getting away! 
DRIVER We got the book! And we got barely enough gas to make it back as it is! We can't go chasin' her! 
BEAT. Redridge knows he's right. 
REDRIDGE Stupid little bitch... (BEAT) Drive on. 
The car moves on, following the rest of the convoy. 
EXT. HOUSE - DAY 
Solara screeches the car to a halt outside the smoking wreckage of the besieged house. She runs from the vehicle to where ELI'S SWORD lies in the dirt and grabs it up. 
EXT. ROAD - DUSK 
Solara races down the road in the car, pedal to the metal. 
SOLARA Come on, come on... 
Eventually, she sees him. At first just a dot on the horizon. But unmistakably Eli. By now, she'd know him anywhere. 
Suddenly the engine SPLUTTERS. She checks the fuel gauge; the needle deep in the red. She pounds the wheel in frustration. 
SOLARA No... No! 
The car grinds to a halt, dead. She flings open the door and leaps out of the vehicle, rushing after Eli on foot. 
ON ELI. As always, his pace steady and slow. The sun directly ahead of him as it sets on the horizon. Headed always west. 
Solara is running up behind him, a hundred yards back. 
SOLARA Eli! Eli! 
He doesn't stop or look back. Just keeps on walking. 
She finally catches up with him, breathing hard, exhausted. 
SOLARA Eli... 
ELI Thought you'd gone back to town. 
SOLARA I can't go back there. Eli, I'm so sorry. 
Eli, Solara and Lombardi sit at one of the long lunch-room tables. The two armed guards keep watch nearby. 
ELI Do you have something you can write with? 
LOMBARDI Mmm? Oh, yes of course! 
He pulls a pen from his pocket, motions to one of the guards. 
LOMBARDI Could you please bring us some writing paper? 
The guard nods and moves toward the door. As he does so: 
ELI Bring a lot of it. 
INT. PALLADIUM AUDITORIUM - CARNEGIE'S BOX 
Carnegie looks at the open bible, jaw hanging loose, his complexion ashen. Like he's just been slapped in the face. 
REDRIDGE What? What is it? 
INT. ALCATRAZ - CAFETERIA - DAY 
The guard brings a THICK SHEAF OF WRITING PAPER to the cafeteria table, sets it down by Lombardi. 
ELI Are you ready? 
LOMBARDI What exactly am I writing? 
ELI Pay close attention and write down every word exactly as I say it. 
Eli removes his goggles. Solara can't believe what she sees. 
His eyes are pale, milky-white, dead. TOTALLY BLIND. 
ELI The First Book of Moses called Genesis. Chapter one, verse one. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Verse two. The earth was without form, and void; and darkness was on the face of the deep. And the spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. Verse three. And God said, "Let there be light," and there was light. 
Lombardi hurriedly writes down every word. 
INT. PALLADIUM AUDITORIUM - CARNEGIE'S BOX 
Carnegie sits at his desk, still in shock. Eli's bible sits open on the desk before him. 
A BRAILLE BIBLE. 
Claudia is ushered in by a guard. 
CLAUDIA What's wrong? 
He rushes forward and thrusts the bible into her hands. 
CARNEGIE You told me once that you know how to read this. This blind language. 
CLAUDIA Well, a long time ago, when I was a little girl... 
CARNEGIE You're going to read it for me. Every word. And I'm going to write it down. Start at the beginning. 
As Carnegie hunts on his desk for a paper and pen, Claudia opens the book and trails her fingertips across the raised lettering. 
For a moment there is a glimmer of recognition... a faint smile... but then it fades as Carnegie turns back to her, eagerly clutching the writing materials. 
CLAUDIA I'm sorry. It's been so long. I don't remember. I don't remember any of it. 
Carnegie is aghast. BEAT as the anger swells within him, threatening to explode... 
CARNEGIE God fucking dammit! 
He swipes violently at the bible, knocking it out of Claudia's hands. He grabs it up and tries to rip it in two, but it's too thick to tear. Red-faced with rage, he tosses it out over the box balcony. It lands somewhere in the dark auditorium below, between the rows of gutted theater seats. 
As he paces angrily back past Claudia: 
CLAUDIA Bill, is there something- 
CARNEGIE Just go. Just get out of my sight. 
He slumps in his chair, exhausted and furious. Claudia sadly turns and leaves him alone with his thoughts. 
INT. ALCATRAZ - CAFETERIA - NIGHT 
Some considerable time later. Great stacks of paper have been filled with Lombardi's handwriting. 
Lombardi's pen races across the paper, struggling to keep up with Eli's recitation. 
Solara is curled up on a nearby bench, asleep. Eli's coat covering her to keep her warm. 
Eli clutches his wound painfully as he continues to recite. He looks paler now than ever. Close to death. 
ELI (V.O.) Dear Lord, thank you for giving me the strength and the conviction to complete the task you entrusted to me. Thank you for guiding me straight and true, through the many obstacles in my path. (MORE) 
