THE BOONDOCK SAINTS 
Written by 
TROY DUFFY 
Shooting Script:  White August 28, 1997 
INT.  GOTHIC CHURCH  10:00 A.M.  ST. PATRICK'S DAY 
DOWNTOWN BOSTON 
As we open we see the inside of an enormous church. A young looking PRIEST in his mid-thirties is finishing the delivery of the Lords Prayer. In the back of the church, in the last pew, there are two who kneel on the cold, stone floor. 
They do not stand to sing, nor do they offer signs of peace when told, but they pray. They grip and rub their rosaries. They mutter their words in Latin. 
CONNOR and MURPHY MacMANUS (mid-twenties) are shrouded in thick waist length navy P-coats, worn leather boots and the hungry clothes of the poor. The boys heads are shaved and they have facial hair. 
MONSIGNOR (dismissing young priest) Thank you Father Macklepenny, for coming all the way across town to be our guest speaker today. I hope you found our little parish to your liking. 
Macklepenny takes his seat on the alter along side the regular priests of the church. The MacManus brothers suddenly stand, as all others remain seated. Each church goer between them and the aisle shifts his/her position to allow the boys passage, as if on command. The two turn and begin to stride for the alter, eyes down, determined. 
ANNABELLE MACMANUS (V.O.) (thick Irish accent) They've never been like anyone else. From the moment they were born, of the same womb, on the same day, they just had their own way, my boys did. And I always knew that one day they would do something of true greatness. I just never expected they would bring about such a... such a reckoning. 
The MacManus brothers are fraternal twins. As Annabelle MacManus speaks, Macklepenny is taken aback as he scans the congregation amazed to find that he is the only one who thinks this out of the ordinary. 
The monsignor begins his sermon. Macklepenny rises to stop the boys from this disgraceful disturbance. 
The elder clergyman finds Macklepenny's arm, keeping him seated while shaking his head. Macklepenny's confusion gives way to awe as he watches the brothers step onto the altar, brush by the six seated priests, and approach the enormous crucifix. 
They both fall to their knees and kiss the feet of Christ. They rise and as abruptly as they came, they turn and head back down the aisle for the front door. They stop at the rear of the church, turning to listen to the sermon. 
MONSIGNOR (loud, authoritative) ...and I am reminded of this holy day of the sad story of Kitty Geneviese. This poor soul cried out time and time again for help but no person answered her calls. Though many saw, not one so much as called. Her assailant wiped the bloody knife off on her lifeless little body. They watched as he simply walked away. Nobody wanted to get involved. Nobody wanted to take a stand... We must fear evil men and deal with them accordingly but what we must truly guard against, what we must fear most (beat) Is the indifference of good men. 
The MacManuses turn and walk out the door. 
EXT. CHURCH STEPS  SUNNY MORNING 
The boys put on their dark glasses and pause at the top of the steps to light up their cigarettes. They both roll their cigarette butts along their tongues and screw them into their lips. In this unique way they light up, seemingly oblivious to their synchronicity and mimic. 
CONNOR (Irish accent) I do believe the Monsignor finally got a point. 
MURPHY (Irish accent) Aye. 
They leave. 
INT. NOLAND'S MEAT PACKING PLANT  4:00 P.M.  SAME DAY 
Murphy, wearing a white blood soaked smock and apron stands around the corner of the entrance to the loading dock. He grips a gigantic, bloody slab of meat and smirks. Connor flips his cigarette out the loading dock and passes his brother's hiding place. He notices the workers have stopped, and are looking at him. 
CONNOR What? 
Murphy slaps Connor square in the face with the bloody slab. 
Connor's face is caked with blood as he stands stunned. He then leaps on Murphy, sending him into a pile of nearby hamburger. He grabs a large cow tongue from a nearby heap and begins slapping Murphy in the face with it as they both laugh and the workers cheer. 
Their boss, McGERKIN approaches with a very large woman. 
Her head is clean-shaven. The two are still laughing, out of breath, they turn. 
MCGERKIN Boys this is Rose, Baum, Gurtle... Gurtle. 
ROZ Rozengurtle Baumgartner. 
MCGERKIN You'll be training her today, and do a good job. 
BOTH BOYS Aye. 
CONNOR (wipes hand and extends it) Pleased ta meet ya Rozie. 
She points to a tattoo on her neck that reads untouched by man. 
ROZ I prefer to be called Rozengurtle by men. 
BOTH (genuflecting, impassionate) Mother Mary, full of grace. 
MOM What did you do, Connor? 
CONNOR Well, we tried ta make friends and she gave me a shot ta the nuts. 
MOM (aghast) What... the dirty bitch! I hope ya trounced her a good one! 
CONNOR Well, I didn't but... 
MURPHY (shaking his fist) Don't worry, I respected the hell out of her for ya, Ma. 
Mom laughs. 
MOM Well listen, I know how my boys take ta scrappin' when they take ta drinkin'. 
BOTH (semi-condescending) Yes mother. 
MOM (light-hearted anger) I mean it now. I carried the two of you little bastards around in my belly at the same time you ungrateful pissants. Ya ruined my girlish figure in one fell swoop, and then ya sucked me dry. (grabbing her breast) My tits are saggin' down ta my ankles. I trip over em for Christ sakes, now ya listen ta me, NO FIGHTEN! 
The boys laugh. 
MOM Promise me boys. 
MURPHY We promise. 
CONNOR Yeah, we promise. 
MOM Well, there's my boys. (pulls back curtain, looks out window) Shit. I gotta go. Looks like I caused a ruckus with that shot. Half the damn neighborhood is comin'. 
MURPHY All right, love ya ma. Listen, before ya go just give us the goods, eh? 
CONNOR Yeah. It's been twenty-seven years. 
MOM Still bickerin' over that, huh? 
CONNOR Come on, ma. Out with it. Who came out first? 
MOM All right, I suppose you have the right ta know. 
The boys stand shoulder to shoulder, naked. They peer into the distance, ears to the phone, awaiting this most important information. 
MOM Are ya ready? 
BOTH Aye. 
Slight pause as mom slams a shot of Hennessey. 
MOM (yells) The one with the biggest cock! 
Mom slams down the phone and lets out a throaty laugh. The boys sign angrily. Connor walks over and hangs up the phone. 
CONNOR Crazy woman. 
When he turns, he notices Murphy is fixated on his brothers crotch. A triumphant smile spreads across his face. 
CONNOR Don't start. I've had ice on mine. 
EXT. AN ALLEY  MORNING 
PAUL SMECKER, F.B.I. agent, is lead by the Boston Chief of Police through a jungle of ravenous reporters, police lines and uniformed officers. He is impeccably dressed in a deep red suit. He is smiling, confident as he walks. He is a very good-looking, slender man. 
He looks intently, for a moment, at four uniformed officers. 
They approach two dead bodies, laying next to a dented green dumpster with half the paint job scraped off. 
One man, IVAN CHECKOV, lays on his stomach, closer to the dumpster than the other. The ass of his pants has been burnt out and a large cotton bandage is in its place. 
The other, VLADDY, has a blood soaked bandage around his head and is on his stomach as well. There are hundreds of pieces of porcelain of various sizes everywhere. Three plain- clothed homicide detectives, DUFFY, DOLLY and GREENLY hover close to the bodies. Dolly and Duffy listen to GREENLY, an obvious rookie, give his over-confident theory of what took place. 
The chief is about to interrupt them, but Smecker holds him back with a smile. The two wait and watch in a position, where the unsuspecting detectives have their backs to them. 
GREENLY (thick Boston accent) ...so these guys are just kickin' the shit out of each other. This guy (points to Vladdy) Picks up an old kitchen sink that some one threw out and crushes this guy (Checkov) With it. All right, so it makes a big bang and alerts their friend, who's standin' look out around the corner. So he comes over and gets into it with this guy, (Vladdy) He's angry at him, right? They get into an altercation in which the look out guy crushes this guy by jumpin on him. And look at the damage here. (Vladdy) I mean this guy's fuckin' hamburger man. His spine is crushed. He's all twisted and shit. That guy had to be one big mother fucker. Huge, 3-400 pounds, fuckin huge. 
DOLLY How did you know that? 
SMECKER Paraffin came up positive. And bullet holes are usually a big clue. 
CHAFFEY I can't find the second one, sir. 
SMECKER Look under the body. 
CHAFFEY (obeys) Got it. 
Smecker turns to detectives with a smirk. 
SMECKER You guy's ready for this? 
They both nod. 
SMECKER This was no gangland assassination. Though creative, it was way too sloppy. Something went wrong here. This has personal written all over it. Now, these men were crushed and the first natural reaction the body has to such trauma is to tense up. So now the two shots fired here were reflex rounds. These guys weren't shooting at anything, but they were just about to. 
Mitchell returns. 
MITCHELL Agent Smecker, (pointing to MacManus building) This is all illegal loft housing so there's no manager on the premises but I found a lady on the fourth floor said she's had water dripping down on her whole place. Started just this morning. 
SMECKER Fourth floor huh? Then we're heading to the fifth. Let's go up and see just how right I am. 
INT. MACMANUS' APT. BUILDING  FIRST FLOOR  MORNING 
The detectives pile into the elevator, Smecker last. Greenly has rejoined them. Smecker sips his latte. 
DUFFY So what are you thinkin' here? 
SMECKER Really want to know? 
All the detectives chant the affirmative. The doors close. 
INT. MACMANUS' APT. BUILDING  ELEVATOR  FIFTH FLOOR  MORNING 
As the doors open, all the detectives chorus their disbelief. 
GREENLY No way. You know how big a guy's gotta be to do that? Fuckin' huge. 
Smecker turns to Greenly in disbelief. 
SMECKER (beat) Oooo. I might be wanting a bagel with my coffee. 
Smecker exits the elevator leaving the three silent detectives with that thought. 
GREENLY (to Dolly) I ain't getting him no fuckin' bagel. 
The detectives exit the elevator. 
INT. MACMANUS' DOORWAY  INSIDE APT  LOOKING OUT TO HALL MORNING 
Smecker appears first, glancing in momentarily. The detectives pile in behind him. They survey the situation in total awe. 
SMECKER (to Greenly) We'll start the ass kissing with you. 
EXT. MACMANUS' APT. BUILDING  FRONT STEPS  MORNING 
Smecker saunters out, detectives on his heels. 
MITCHELL (approaches Smecker) Agent Smecker. I know this neighborhood pretty good. There's a bar called McGinty's down the block. It's a good bet they were there last night. 
SMECKER (turns to detectives) Good work, Mitchell. I'll check that out myself. 
Duffy starts walking down the street. A REPORTER is hot on his heels. 
REPORTER Hey, Duffy. What the fuck happened here? You owe me. This is the one I want. 
DUFFY Let's go get a cup of coffee. You ain't gonna fuckin' believe this one. 
Smecker is standing on the front steps in front of uniformed officers and homicide detectives. 
SMECKER I want A.P.B.'s put out. I want more uniforms on the streets. One thing's for sure, wherever these guys are they're hurting. 
SMECKER Well, not armed. If they had guns, they'd have used them. But dangerous? Oh yeah. 
MITCHELL What makes you think they're dangerous? They were just protecting each other. 
EXT. BOSTON POLICE STATION STEPS  DAY 
The two are limping up the precinct stairs. Connor is draped over Murphy who helps his brother along, they are still attired as in the E.R. 
INT. BOSTON POLICE STATION  PRECINCT OFFICE  DAY 
SMECKER Look, look! I'm not saying one way or the other. Just be careful and go by the protocol on this one. 
CHAFFEY Any tips on where these guys may be? 
SMECKER (to Officer Mitchell) 
Any word back from the E.R.s? 
MITCHELL No help at all. Swamped from St. Patty's. Packed with drunk, bloody Irish. 
SMECKER Just hit the bricks nice and hard. 
Grunt police work is going to bring this one in. 
GREENLY (talking loudly) These guys are miles away by now. 
The brothers quietly enter in the back of the room. All the officers are seated with their backs to them. Smecker and the brothers make eye contact. He knows who they are. They don't interrupt Greenly. 
GREENLY But if you want to beat your head against a wall, then here's what you look for. These guys are scared like two little bunny rabbits. Anything in a uniform or flashing blue lights will spook them. So the only thing we can do is put a potato on a string and drag it through South Boston. 
There is light chuckling from the police at this crack. 
MURPHY (loud) You'd probably have better luck with a beer. 
Everyone turns and looks. 
INT. INTERROGATION ROOM  BOSTON POLICE STATION  LATER 
The boys sit in two chairs at a plain table with a recording device on it. They are very serious and alert. Mitchell enters with coffee for them. He shakes their hands and says he really respects what they did. Surprised, they thank him. Chaffey enters with donuts and a repeat performance of respect. Slowly officers start to gather around the interrogation room door. 
INT. INTERROGATION ROOM  BOSTON POLICE STATION  DAY LATER 
There are at least 20 officers and detectives packed in the tiny room. The MacManus' visit with the excited cops. All are in high spirits. 
The room is loud as Smecker walks in. 
SMECKER What the fuck is this!? This isn't a fuckin' tea party. Get out! Only thing I want in here is them. 
They all file out. Smecker and the boys look each other over. 
SMECKER This conversation is going to be recorded. Just answer to the best of your knowledge. 
Smecker reaches for the record button. Murphy puts out his hand to stop him. 
MURPHY (politely) Excuse me, sir. 
Murphy turns to his brother and speaks in Latin, in hushed tones. It is subtitled in English. 
MURPHY "What do we tell him about the guns and money?" 
CONNOR "We just got up and left. Bum musta rolled them before the police got there." 
MURPHY (to Smecker) Okay. We're ready. 
Smecker in intrigued with this tiny display. He hits the record button. 
SMECKER You guys are not under oath, here. I am assuming you knew these two guys from before, huh? 
CONNOR We... met them last night. 
SMECKER They had some pretty interesting bandages. Know anything about that? 
They look at each other. 
CHECKOV You insult me. I would never drink that sewage. Especially with you people. You are fools. 
Checkov slaps the beer to the floor. 
CHECKOV This is no game! If you won't go, we will make you go! 
The boys look at each other, remembering what Mom said. 
They still hold the shots. 
CONNOR If ya want a fight, you can see you're outnumbered. We're trying ta be civil here, so I suggest you take our offer. 
CHECKOV I make the offers, ass-hole. 
Rocco pushes off the bar. He's had enough. 
ROCCO (standing between the two brothers) Hey, there Boris. What would you say if I told you that your pinko, commie mother sucked so much dick... 
Wham! Ivan punches him in the face. He is quickly down and out. Connor and Murphy's faces turn to stone as they speak the next few lines in flawless fluent Russian with English subtitles. 
CONNOR "Now, that wasn't too polite, was it?" 
MURPHY "I'm afraid we can't let that one go, Ivan." 
Checkov is completely taken aback. All the Irish are fairly impressed as well. 
CONNOR I don't think Ma would mind. 
They clink the glasses together, throw back the Hennessey, ball up the thick glasses in their fists, drop to one knee and both deliver a devastating blow to each of Checkov's quads. Murphy on the left, Connor on the right. He's down for the count, writhing on the floor. 
The boy's each take a Russian guy and start fighting as the others start kicking and spitting on Checkov. This is a bar brawl, lots of punches don't connect. Connor dismantles his man quickly. Murphy is still fighting as all the Irish try to jump in and help Murphy but Connor goes into psycho mode, pushing them all back. 
CONNOR Let the boy go. He knows what the fuck he's doing! 
They all back off and start to cheer him on. Murphy and Vladdy are ripping each other apart. Vladdy backs him against a wall and pulls back, exhausted, for one good punch. Murphy reaches up behind his head with both hands and pulls two bottles of wine from a wall rack. He swings them toward each other with Vladdy's head as the mid-point. The bottles haphazardly connect, one on each side of his head. He crumples to the ground in an explosion of glass and wine. 
There is shock and silence. 
CONNOR Nicely done, boy! 
INT. MCGINTY'S PUB  NIGHT  A FEW MINUTES LATER 
They have Ivan Checkov tied down to the bar on his stomach. 
Connor stands with an unlit cigarette dangling from his lips next to Ivan. He pours Hennessey all over Checkov's buttocks. 
They all cheer. Ivan's face is battered as Rocco wakes and approaches. He punches Checkov in the face in complete rage. 
Two friends subdue him as all chuckle. 
CONNOR Now, like my fine brother says, on St. Patty's everyone's Irish. And this piece of shit is about to be initiated. 
As they cheer, Connor lights up his smoke and tosses the match on Ivan's butt. 
The Hennessey is instantly ablaze and Checkov is screaming and wiggling in horror. Some just stand there stunned, but most of the remaining onlookers leap to Ivan's aid. They furiously pat him out and turn on Connor. 
FRIEND #1 Are ya tryin' ta kill him, ya fuck? 
INT. CONNOR AND MURPHY'S APT  EARLY NEXT MORNING 
Connor and Murphy, fairly beat up, sit up on their beds. 
They wear tattered bathrobes and boxer shorts. They put their feet down into their leather boots. The boys examine the extent of one another's injuries and reflect on their hangovers. They both laugh and grab their heads in pain. 
Boom! The door breaks open and in hobbles Checkov and Vladdy, guns drawn. Checkov is all beat up and the ass of his pants is burnt out. A bulky bandage covers his buttocks. Vladdy has a large bandage around his head. The boys stand in surprise. 
Ivan smashes Connor in the forehead with his gun, sending blood gushing down his face as he falls to the floor. Murphy helplessly yells his brother's name as he is brought to his knees by Vladdy. Ivan positions Connor on his knees before the toilet, which is open to the room. Checkov puts his foot on Connor's head and proceeds, as he struggles, to hand cuff him to the old toilet. So now Connor is bleeding and hugging the commode with his hands cuffed behind the bowl base. 
CHECKOV (almost whispering) I was going to kill you. But I'm not... I'm going to kill your brother. I'm going to take him down to the dumpster and I'm going to shoot him in the head. Then I'm going to throw his dead body in the garbage. (looks at this watch) Trash guys are coming in 10 minutes, gotta go. 
Checkov walks towards the door and says "let's go" to Vladdy. 
MURPHY It was just a bar fight. You guys are fuckin' pussies! 
The brothers laugh. Chaffey enters. 
CHAFFEY Ah, Agent Smecker, we have a problem. 
SMECKER What? 
CHAFFEY The press is everywhere outside. They're going nuts for these guys. What do you want to do? 
SMECKER You're not being charged. It's up to you. Do you want to talk to them? 
CONNOR Absolutely not. 
MURPHY No pictures, either. 
SMECKER Well, we could try the bag over the head thing. Walk you right out the front. 
CONNOR Our mother can see through bags. 
MURPHY Aye, she can. (beat) Any way we can stay here? 
CHAFFEY Sure, we have an empty holding cell, They can... can they stay? 
SMECKER Well, we'll have to check with your mother, but it's ok with me if your friends sleep over. 
They all chuckle. Chaffey is embarrassed. Smecker stands. 
SMECKER Time to feed the dogs. 
Smecker leaves. 
CONNOR He's a nice guy. 
Murphy speaks with the characteristic gay man's lingering "S". 
MURPHY Yes... he is. 
They laugh. 
EXT. BOSTON POLICE STATION  FRONT STEPS  EARLY EVENING 
The police chief is standing on the front steps of the police station making a statement to the ravenous press: cameras and pushy reporters. Agent Smecker stands slightly behind him. 
Rocco stands amidst the sea of reporters as the chief begins. 
CHIEF This is our official statement. The MacManus brothers are not being charged with a crime. It was a clean- cut case of self defense. We have thanked them for their cooperation and we thank you, the media, for your tireless pursuit of the truth. 
The press is ablaze with questions. Smecker turns and walks down the precinct steps, passing Rocco, who carries a bunch of folded clothes, and heads for the police station. Smecker glances in Rocco's direction, barely noticing the man who has already passed him. 
INT. MACMANUS' CELLS  EARLY EVENING 
Rocco approaches the wide open cell as Chaffey and Mitchell play cards with the brothers. Happy to see each other the boys and Rocco embrace. He hands them their clothes. 
INT. MACMANUS' CELL  NIGHT 
The boys are in a tight cell with a bed on each side. They are in their own clothes now. The brothers are fast asleep. 
Suddenly, they lurch forward, throwing their chests out, lips tight, still asleep. 
INT. POLICE STATION BATHROOM  NIGHT. 
An officer turns on the faucet of a sink and begins to wash his hands. We go down to the pipes beneath the porcelain basin. An old leak seeps water through a crack in the floor. 
INT. MACMANUS' CELL  NIGHT 
A water leak starts on the ceiling. It drips faster and faster. The water begins to follow a water damaged crack along the ceiling. It slowly spreads in two directions. 
The brothers struggle for air in their sleep. Then slowly, and at the same time, they each reach up one arm apiece and simultaneously curl their hands as if grabbing something. 
Their straining faces are brought from darkness to light as they sit up quickly, face to the ceiling. 
Their eyes open wide and they each draw their first breath as drops of the creeping water land on their foreheads. 
They look at each other across the room in shock as the drips of water still fall between them. 
Rocco starts for the door. Vincenzo begins whispering in Yakavetta's ear. 
YAKAVETTA Hey, Rocco, wait. Come back here. 
ROCCO Yeah boss? 
Vincenzo continues whispering for a few more seconds, long enough for Rocco to see. Vincenzo's lips are tight. His teeth grind. 
YAKAVETTA I always see you talking to the boys and making them laugh. They always come around telling me what a crack up you are. What is it they call you? 
ROCCO (totally intimidated) The... The funny man. 
YAKAVETTA The funny man. Well, I got a new job for you, just for now. Roc, I'm having a real shitty day. I'm depressed. Tell me a funny story or a joke. 
ROCCO (terrified) Uh. Okay... um... you hear the one about the, no fuck that one... uh... oh! oh! Well... shit. Okay, there's a white guy. He's walkin' along the beach and he finds a, a pot, y'know and ah, he rubs it and this genie pops out. But this genie, he's a ni... he's a black guy. 
YAKAVETTA He's a nigger. 
ROCCO Yeah. And uh, he's pissed off. He says, "Why you crackers always gotta find my mother fuckin' pot? And he tells him he's gonna grant all his three wishes but he's gonna give all the black guys... 
VINCENZO AND YAKAVETTA Niggers! 
ROCCO Sorry! Sorry! All the niggers on the planet get double what he wishes for. "I'll take a million dollars," he says. Genie give it to him and says every nigger on earth just got two million. "I don't care gimme a yacht." Poof there it is. (intimidated, losing steam) E-every bl... every nigger just got two yachts. Genie goes... (gives up) I'm sorry Poppa Joe. I can't. This joke sucks. 
Yakavetta takes a long pause. 
YAKAVETTA Continue the joke. 
ROCCO (deflated) He says, "What's your third wish?" And the guys says, "I-I want you to beat me half to death." 
There's a long tense pause. Suddenly, Yakavetta throws his head back and roars with laughter. Vincenzo joins in. Rocco lets out a semi-audible sign of relief and gradually starts laughing himself. 
YAKAVETTA (still in guffaw) Very good stuff, Rocco. Very good stuff. Tell me another one. 
Rocco returns to terror. Yakavetta erupts again pointing at Rocco. 
INT  COMMON BOSTON HOME  ANTEROOM  TWILIGHT 
Connor and Murphy give a huge Irishman guns, money and gold watches. He hands them two big black duffle bags and motions for them to help themselves as he counts the money. They enter a well equipped arsenal. They are giddy as they go on their first shopping spree. They toss in masks and gloves. 
They toss in four identical black finished 9mm handguns with silencers. 
CONNOR Know what we need, man?... some rope. 
MURPHY For what? 
CONNOR Charlie Bronson's always got rope. 
MURPHY What? 
CONNOR Yeah, these guys always got a lot of rope strapped around em in the movies and they always end up using it. 
MURPHY Oh, you've lost it, haven't ya? 
CONNOR I'm serious. 
MURPHY Me too. That's stupid. Name one thing we're gonna need it for. 
CONNOR I don't know they just always need it. 
MURPHY What is all this "they" shit? This ain't a movie. 
Connor pulls a large hunting knife from Murphy's bag. 
CONNOR Is that right, Rambo? 
MURPHY All right, get the stupid fuckin' rope. 
INT. SMECKER'S BEDROOM  NIGHT 
Paul Smecker lies in bed with his young lover, Reuben (mid- twenties). He has an innocent, feminine look and a GQ air about him. The two have just had sex and Reuben is far more excited about it than Smecker. 
Reuben pants and gestures that it was a wonderful experience. 
DUFFY (surprised) The fat man. 
SMECKER Well, Freud was right. So you think they came for the fag man, huh? And what do you base this upon? 
DUFFY He was the only one done right. Two in the back of the head. 
SMECKER And the pennies? 
DUFFY New hitman wants to leave his mark 
SMECKER That's a possibility. Y'know you Boston cops are perking up. That's two sound theories in one day, neither of which deal with abnormally sized men. (pause) Another possibility is that they were placed there with religious intent. 
DUFFY Yeah. Some cultures still put pennies in the eyes of the dead, or silver. 
SMECKER The Greeks. The Italians. 
DUFFY The Sicilians. 
DOLLY What's the symbology there? 
Smecker tosses the Idiot glance to Dolly. 
SMECKER Symbology? Well, now that Duffy has relinquished his King Bone Head crown I see we have an heir to the throne. I'm sure the word you were looking for was symbolism. What's the symbolism there? Let me explain it to you. In Greek and Roman mythology when you died you would have to pay the toll to Charon, the boatman who ferried you across to the gates of judgment. This made sure the dead came to atone for what they did during their lives, Detective... 
Smecker looks at his I.D. 
SMECKER Dollapoppaskalious. 
The detectives are impressed. 
DOLLY (DOLLAPOPPASKALIOUS) Holy shit. You're the first one that's ever got that. 
SMECKER (aside) Yeah, well... I'm an expert in name- ology. 
The detectives chuckle. 
INT. PLAZA HOTEL  SUITE LIVING ROOM  NIGHT 
Smecker is chain smoking. His clothes appear unkempt. His eyes show emotion at every new found clue. The detectives watch closely. He is hunched over the body of the fat man probing his wounds with his gloved fingers. Greenly has re- entered. He defiantly holds a cup of coffee but is too intimidated to interrupt Smecker. He sets it down and folds his arms. 
SMECKER I've seen burns like these before. They used silencers. Look at these entry and exit wounds. They're identical. 
He stands up and gives a lesson to the now eager detectives. 
He points his two index fingers to the back of his own skull. 
SMECKER The two bullets went in here, through the top of the skull, criss-crossed and exited through the eyeballs. This one clue tells us three distinct facts. Number one... Duffy. 
DUFFY They shot him at a downward angle. (makes connection) They put him on his knees. 
SMECKER Excellent! Number two. Greenly. 
GREENLY Uh. (thinking hard) Shit, I, uh... 
SMECKER It tells us that he was the last to die. All these men (fans across the corpses with his hand) Were carrying. They came in, dropped all in seconds and then took their time with fag man. Didn't they, Duffy?! (psychotic laugh) They sure as fuck did! 
A wide-eyed Duffy joins with Smecker, by nodding his head. 
Smecker is seducing all of them. 
SMECKER And number three, Dolly. 
DOLLY Uh... two shooters! 
SMECKER Fan-fuckin-tastic! 
Greenly and Duffy want to know how. 
SMECKER Now stay with me, boys. What did they do to make two such identical wounds? Did one guy put him on his knees, pop a cap in, sit him back up and shoot him again the same way? No. Two men of similar height dropped this guy down, each put some iron to his head and boom! That's all she fuckin' wrote! 
DUFFY What about one guy with two guns? 
SMECKER Possible, but unlikely. The angles are too extreme. A guy holding two guns to the back of your head is gonna shoot straight ahead. He wouldn't cock out his elbows, makes no sense. Besides, you telling me one guy came in here and killed eight men with eight extremely well aimed shots in just a few seconds? No way. Had to be at least two. 
MURPHY Kill em all. Admit it, even you've thought about it. 
Rocco ponders this as the boys continue to clean their weapons. 
ROCCO You guys should be in every major city. 
The boys chuckle. Rocco steadily works himself into a humorous frenzy. 
ROCCO This is some heavy shit. This is like Lone Ranger-heavy man. Fuck it! There's so much shit that pisses me off. You guys should recruit 'cause I am sick and fuckin' tired of walkin' down the street waitin' for one of these assholes to get me, y'know? 
MURPHY (chuckling) Hallelujah, Jaffar. 
ROCCO So you're not just talkin' mob guys. You're talkin' anyone, right? Even like pimps and drug dealers and all that shit? 
The boys look at each other and nod. 
ROCCO Well fuck, you guys could do this every day. 
MURPHY We're like 7-Eleven. We ain't always doing business, but we're always open. 
CONNOR Nicely put. 
INT.   ROCCO'S APARTMENT  NIGHT  ONE HOUR LATER 
The three are partying hard. There's a pizza surrounded by Guinness cans as they whoop it up, sitting at the round table. 
Rocco wears one of the masks. They're all drunk. The house cat is lounging on the table comfortably. 
ROCCO You fuckin' guys. You ruined me. I'm fuckin' done. Permanent package boy. 
MURPHY Who says that? You could take credit on it. 
ROCCO What are you serious? 
MURPHY Yeah, fuck it. If you think about it, it's all you can do really. You can't tell him it was us. Go in braggin' and shit. 
CONNOR Climb the corporate ladder, boy. Don Rocco. 
ROCCO Fuck it! I'm doing it. I deserve it. I've been working for those fat bastards since I was in high school and look at this place. 
The boys nod in agreement. 
ROCCO (working into a frenzy) They're fuckin' me man! Hey, they can suck my pathetic little dick. And I'll dip my nuts in marinara just so the fat fucks can get a taste of home while they're at it. That's it, it's done, I'm doing it. 
Rocco slams his fist down on the table next to Murphy's gun. 
The gun goes off with a bang! and blows the lounging cat right off the table. A softball-sized hole is blasted in the wall as a large splatter of blood sprays the area surrounding the hole. Everyone is in shock for a second. 
MURPHY I can't fuckin' believe that just happened! 
INT.  ROCCO'S APARTMENT  NEXT MORNING  11:30 A.M. 
The three are passed out all over the apartment. Rocco awakens. He stumbles past the wall with the large, round, pink stain on it. There is a crooked picture hanging in the middle of it. 
Rocco staggers to the kitchen and throws water in his face over a sinkful of dirty dishes. Connor awakens, grabs his jacket and follows Rocco out. 
EXT.  ROCCO'S FRONT STEPS  CONTINUOUS 
CONNOR (hung over) Donna's gonna be angry about her cat. 
ROCCO Shit. She's on every drug know to man. She'd have sold that thing for a dime bag. Screw her. (beat) But I do kinda feel like an ass-hole. 
CONNOR (chuckles) You sound real remorseful. 
Connor lights up two smokes and hands one to Rocco. 
ROCCO She ain't been around in weeks anyhow. 
CONNOR (beat) Listen. Something's been bothering me about last night. 
ROCCO What? 
CONNOR Well... what if your boss knew how many guys were supposed to be there... in that room? 
DOLLY (approaches Smecker) She was in here when it went down. 
SMECKER Can she I.D. them? 
DOLLY They were wearing masks. 
SMECKER Of course they were. How many? 
DOLLY Three. 
Smecker looks at Dolly surprised. 
DOLLY Only two did the shooting. (beat) So what are you thinking, Russian retaliation? 
SMECKER Nah, too quick half their infrastructure got taken out at the Copley plaza. Besides, if you're a hitter, you're either working for the Russians or the Italians. There's no riding the fence. Our little theory from last night just got blown to shit. Something... new is going on here. 
Smecker sits next to the girl. He has Compassion. She Cries. 
SMECKER Probably shouldn't work another shift for awhile. 
DANCER Fuck this job. I'm getting out of the porno business and I don't care who I gotta blow to do it. 
INT.  SIN BIN  SMALL ROOM  NIGHT 
The bodies have been removed and chalk outlines replace them. 
The bullet holes in the walls have been marked either A or B. The detectives watch Smecker. He is a mess. His clothes are disheveled and his hair is frazzled. 
SMECKER After talking to the dancer we know that their mark was the guy in the middle booth. After she watches them whack him, she passes out. (pause) Why the two extra victims? 
GREENLY Witness? 
SMECKER No way they could have seen it. 
Smecker hits an orange button on the wall and a black steel door with a money slot comes slamming down in front of the first booth. He does the same thing to the last booth, leaving the middle one open. Both doors possess peep holes. 
SMECKER (sarcastic) Allow me to enlighten you gentlemen to the protocol of the porno industry, as I'm sure you've never been in one of these places before. A man goes into the booth, puts the money in the slot. The dancer gets it on the other side. She hits the button, door goes up, now there is only glass between you and it's (makes a masturbatory gesture with hand) little fireman time. 
DUFFY No way they could have seen it? 
SMECKER Those doors were down... which means this. They looked down in through the peep hole, saw these guys and opened the doors from the inside. Pop, pop, pop, right through the glass. Why? 
DOLLY Maybe the three of them had something in common. 
SMECKER No. This guy is big time. (points to middle booth) These two are street-walking scum. 
GREENLY (kidding) Then that's what they had in common. They were all bad guys... now they're all dead bad guys. 
Smecker seems side-tracked and ponderous at Greenly's observation. He hits the orange buttons and raises the doors. 
SMECKER We got another thing to think about here. We got us a genuine Kennedy assassination style bullet theory. Two guns were used here, guns A and B. The guy in the middle was done with both. But this guy... (denotes right booth) ...he was killed with bullets from gun A only. And this guy... (denotes left booth) ...gun B only. But ballistics dug two slugs out of the wall from over here where the victim was done with A. 
Smecker points to two bullet holes in the wall of the booth on the left. Each is marked "B". He walks over to the right booth where in the exact location are two identical holes marked "A". 
SMECKER And it's the same story over here. Why the crossover? (beat) Theories. 
DOLLY That's just fucking weird. I have no idea. 
DUFFY Jesus. I just can't think anymore. That scene over at the coffee shop today tapped me out. 
SMECKER What? 
DUFFY A guy went nuts over off of Commonwealth today. Shot three guys to death in a coffee shop in broad daylight. Fled the scene. Don't have much on him. 
SMECKER (angry) Why was I not informed of this? 
GREENLY They weren't related. The guy used a 38. No pennies. Totally amateur. 
SMECKER Who were the victims? 
GREENLY A couple of peons for the mob and... 
SMECKER (livid) Oh that's just BEAUTIFUL! All the scumbags in the quiet city of Boston start dropping dead and you think it's unrelated?! Greenly, the day I want the Boston Police doing my thinking for me, I will have a fucking tag on my toe! Now, get me a squad car and get me over there. I want the crime scene photos and any witness statements. NOW! 
CONNOR (packing up gear) Who did you kill? 
MURPHY (packing up gear) Holy shit. Who? How many? 
ROCCO (rummaging through his drawers) Hurry the fuck up! 
MURPHY This is some crazy shit, man! 
ROCCO Those cocksuckers sold me out! 
CONNOR Did I fuckin' tell ya, Rocco? They pull on you first? 
DONNA ROCCO! 
ROCCO What did I fuckin' do?... in the middle of the Lakeview. 
CONNOR Lakeview the deli? Oh, shit! 
MURPHY Ha! Ha! Roc, you got a jumbo set of coconut balls man! 
DONNA/RAYVIE ROCCO! 
ROCCO (turns in rage) What? 
DONNA (softly) Where's my cat? 
ROCCO (slight pause) I killed your fuckin' cat, you druggie bitch! 
DONNA (shocked, hurt) You... oh god, why? 
ROCCO I felt it would bring closure to our relationship! 
DONNA (crying) You killed my... my... 
She stops, unsure of the cat's name. 
ROCCO (screaming) Your what?! Your fuckin' what?! 
DONNA My, my... 
ROCCO (puts his gun to his own head) Your what, bitch? I'll shoot myself in the head, you can tell me that cats name! Go ahead... Your what? Your precious little... (waiting for her response) 
DONNA (flustered, crying) Pee...Per...Man. 
ROCCO Peeperman? WRONG? What color was it?!!! 
DONNA It was... It was... 
ROCCO Male or female, bitch?!! 
RAYVIE Don't you yell at her you fuckin' prick! 
ROCCO Shut your fat ass, Rayvie! I can't buy a pack of smokes without running into nine guys you fucked. 
DONNA Don't you yell at her! 
Rocco rummages through her purse and finds her car keys. 
ROCCO All right, let's get the fuck outta here! 
They exit. Rayvie and Donna are hugging each other, crying. 
RAYVIE Is my... I mean it's not really...? 
DONNA No. No. It's not fat. 
INT.  CAR  EARLY EVENING 
Rocco is in the back. Connor is driving. 
ROCCO Those rat fucks! All of them were all laughing at me man! 
MURPHY You sure you killed them? 
The three wind down long dark hallways with Rocco leading the way until they reach a green door. The boys stand, side by side, directly in front of it. Rocco is just behind them. 
The three pull identical 9mm.'s and the boys pull on their masks. Rocco puts on a mask that he made from a dock worker's cotton hat. He looks ridiculous. 
MURPHY Okay Roc, this is... 
He turns and is instantly taken with laughter at Rocco's appearance. Connor turns, and has the same reaction. 
ROCCO What? You guys got masks. 
They are now pointing and laughing. 
MURPHY (through laughter) You look like Mush Mouth from Fat Albert. 
ROCCO (takes off mask) Fine! Fuck it! When we're done she can I.D. me. I don't care. Just tryin' to be professional, but no... 
CONNOR (still laughing) No. No. It looks good. C'mon, put it back on. It's good. 
He begrudgingly puts it back on. They reassume their position. 
CONNOR (imitating mush mouth) Okay Roc. You sure you're O-B-kay-B? 
INT.  SIN BIN  SMALL ROOM  NIGHT 
They burst into the room, climb up a few steps and are in a small round room with a couch in it. A topless dancer sits, smoking and drinking coffee, on the couch in front of three big black steel doors with money slots in them. Rocco seizes her, puts a hand over her mouth and a gun to her head. 
ROCCO Which one is he in? 
She points to the middle door. 
ROCCO (takes his hand off her mouth) What's his routine? 
DANCER H... h... he jerks off in there. Th... then he puts money through the slot and I raise the door. 
MURPHY How? 
She points to an orange button. Each door has a button to the left of it. 
ROCCO Then what? 
DANCER He watches me do my thing and f- finishes himself off. 
INT.  SIN BIN  CENTER BOOTH  NIGHT 
We see the fuzzy reflection of a cheap porno movie being reflected in Vincenzo's Elvis style sunglasses. He is shaking as he masturbates. 
VINCENZO (grunting, muttering) Don't you talk to me like that, you dirty little... give it to daddy... give it ta da King... garbage mouth, garbage mouth. 
INT.  SIN BIN  SMALL ROOM  NIGHT 
Rocco is looking through the peep hole down on Vincenzo. He still holds the terrified, crying dancer. 
ROCCO Oh man. He is some sicko. 
They back up and focus on the money slot. A hundred dollar bill comes through. Connor gives it to the dancer. 
CONNOR You've earned this. 
The boys begin to recite their prayer. Rocco is smiling and excited, he still hangs on to the now hyperventilating dancer. 
They press the button. The door goes straight up. Vincenzo has one moment of shock before the MacManuses decimate him through the glass with silenced bullets. The glass silently spiders and begins to fall in spots. His chest explodes, sputtering medallions and bits of gold chain inside the booth. 
The dancer faints and Rocco lays her down gently. 
The boys step down in the boot and begin their ritual. 
Rocco watches intently, intrigued. They finish and turn around to see Rocco is immersed in grabbing one of the unconscious dancer's breasts. They pull up their masks. 
CONNOR What the fuck are you doing? 
ROCCO I-I'll tip her. 
MURPHY We've teamed up with a sex offender. 
AUGUSTUS Listen kid, I think you better understand who you're dealing with here. 
YAKAVETTA Yeah. I was only twelve or thirteen when you guys used to talk about him, like he was a ghost or something. 
AUGUSTUS Your dad and I used him three times over twenty years, only when everything went totally fucked. Believe me kid, you don't want this guy unless you are 100% sure you need him. He is... a fuckin' monster. 
INT.  PRISON PROCESSING ROOM  DAY 
This is a gigantic three tiered room with guards on all tiers. 
They all cock their shotguns. 
A PRISONER is shackled barefoot to a small metal cart on wheels. His hands are cuffed before him with a chain linking his hands and feet. A guard is pulling the cart through the prison to the parole board room by a long chain. The cons have their mirrors out to get a better look. His face is in shadow as he bows his head. 
A metal cage is lowered around him from the ceiling. The parole board looks him over. A stenographer sits poised 
MR. COBB (English accent) Do you feel you have been rehabilitated? 
No response is given by the prisoner. The stenographer looks at MR. COBB who gives her the nod. She begins typing though no words are spoken. 
INT.  RITZY RESTAURANT BATHROOM  DAY 
AUGUSTUS I've had this guy in front of me, and I couldn't tell you what he looks like, sounds like. He is the Picasso of assassins, kid. He plants hair samples, blood. Puts skin under fingernails. He is a fucking genius. Only one problem. He's been rotting in prison for twenty-five or thirty years. Don't even know if he's still alive. Or if he's even up to it. 
Augustus hands him a piece of paper he scribbled on. 
YAKAVETTA There's ways around that. 
AUGUSTUS Go find one. 
INT.  PAROLE PROCESSING ROOM  DAY 
A large piece of paper is placed on the table and stamped with the words parole granted across it. 
INT.  HOTEL ROOM  BOSTON  DAY 
The prisoner, Il Duce enters. He is clad in a long dark trench coat with the collar pulled up, dark round glasses and a dark hat. He puts a suitcase on the bed. 
He walks over to the window. He slowly puts his hand outside and watches the sun bounce off it. Tears begin to flow from beneath his glasses as he breaks down. He begins to take off his clothes as he weeps, casting them aside. 
EXT.  HOTEL ROOM FIRE ESCAPE  BACK ALLEY  DUSK 
The Duke is fully naked, except for a hotel blanket which is wrapped around his waist, sitting on the fire escape. He smiles and is still misty-eyed as he beholds the sun setting. 
Scattered around him are all the furnishings of freedom; Snickers bars, all kinds of empty candy wrappers, Coke cans, and many assorted magazines. 
INT.  COFFEE HOUSE  NIGHT  2:00 A.M. 
Rocco and the brothers sit in an old Boston coffee house. 
ROCCO Let's talk some business here. I know a sick fuck... makes the ones we been doing look like altar boys. Worst night of my life when I met this guy. 
FLASHBACK  EXT.  SUBURBAN BEAVER CLEAVER-TYPE HOUSE  DUSK 
Rocco waits in a late model Chevelle in front of a white house. A man exits the house and walks across the sprawling front lawn. Rocco leans over and says How ya doin', man? 
The man doesn't respond and sits in the passenger seat. 
During the following scenes we FLASHCUT between bits of Rocco's experience that night to the coffee house and catch bits of dialogue as he explains. 
ROCCO The guy never says a fuckin' word to me. We're driving for 25 minutes. Never a sigh, no throat clearing, nothing. And his face, blank man. Just nothing there. 
EXT.  DECREPIT HOUSE  NIGHT  CONTINUED 
FLASHCUT: They pull up to a house in a scummy, Boston Logan Airport neighborhood. Rocco gets out and sits on the hood smoking as the man makes his way up the walk. 
INT.  DECREPIT HOUSE  CONTINUED 
Two tough looking wiseguys walk across a hallway cocking shotguns. They disappear into a room. 
FLASHCUT : He quietly enters the house and pulls a large bright-blue plastic tarp from his coat and spreads it across the floor in the hallway. We hear the sound of Sega video games being played. He pulls out two pistols with silencers and walk. 
He disappears into the living room. Two white flashes and the sounds of silencers. A hookerish looking mom enters frame in the B.G. in the kitchen. She is talking on the phone. She disappears from view. The man reappears and walks to the kitchen. A white flash and the sounds of silencer. 
Connor, Murphy and Rocco sit in a parked van, down the street from the Beaver Cleaver house. The three are sitting next to each other in the longer back seat. They have a counter in front of them with all their guns and accessories on it. 
The clicking of bullets into clips, and smacking of clips into guns are heard. Smecker sits in the captain's chair directly across from them, calmly smoking a cigarette. They finish their preparation. Rocco holds up his guns. 
SMECKER They waited in a parked car down the street for the kid to leave. 
Murphy spies a young boy peddling his bike out of the driveway. He goes to the front of the van. 
MURPHY There he goes. (turns back to them, pulls his guns) Okay, gentlemen. Are we ready to bring this man into the light? Are we ready to truly do the work of the Lord? 
CONNOR (cocks his pistol) A-fuckin'-men! 
ROCCO This is so fuckin' cool! 
EXT.  SUBURBAN BEAVER CLEAVER TYPE HOUSE  DAY 
Connor, Murphy, and Rocco make a frenzied exit from the van and walk across the front lawn, each carrying a black duffle bag and clutching a mask. The garage is opened a crack. 
They pull it up all the way. The sun shines in on Smecker who stands there smoking. 
INT.  SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  GARAGE  DAY 
They enter and close the door behind them 
SMECKER They went in through the garage. The kid says he leaves it open when he takes his bike out. 
They dive into their bags and suit up with leather gloves, masks, navy P-coats and their guns. 
INT.  SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  DAY 
The three open the door and enter the house and walk deliberately down the hallway. 
SMECKER (V.O.) Now, they know the wife is the gate keeper. She knows the code. 
EXT. SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  BACKYARD  DAY 
They walk with the terrified woman around the pool to a steel door pool house entrance. There is a number pad next to the door. Rocco positions her in front of it. 
ROCCO Don't fuck with me lady. I'll kill you. 
She slowly punches in the numbers. Smecker is standing there smoking. 
SMECKER The wife says she doesn't know what happened after she hit the code. She just remembers going down. But, judging by the burn mark on her back, I think what they did... 
Rocco pulls a stun gun and zaps her with it. She goes down. 
SMECKER ...was use a stun gun on her. 
Connor reaches for the knob but Rocco stops him. They wait, guns drawn and focus on the door knob. 
SMECKER Now the guy knows a friend is coming to the game. And they know that this door can only be opened from the inside. So they wait... and when that door opens, man... 
The knob turns and they kick it in. 
INT.  POOLHOUSE - DAY 
They burst in and line up shoulder to shoulder, guns aimed. 
Smecker stands beside Rocco with his thumb and forefinger extended to mimic guns. Five mafiosos sit around a poker table in front of time. Two men are playing pool to their left. Rocco quickly scans the room. 
ROCCO All of them. 
They begin firing. Men are dying, their chests exploding. 
Smecker moves his hands like firing guns and yells over the noise. 
SMECKER Nobody was ready for it. Devastation, panic! This was like shooting fish in a fuckin' barrel! 
Smecker points to the pool table as the two players dive under it. 
SMECKER Now these guys dove under the table. The trajectory on the bullets show they came from straight across. So this means one of our shooters... dropped to his knees... 
Smecker drops to his knees in perfect synchronicity with Rocco. They are side by side and leaning back. 
Rocco, Connor and Murphy walk toward the front door. 
EXT.  SUBURBANK "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  SIDEWALK  DAY 
(Slo-mo) Two black leather boots slowly walk up the sidewalk and stop in front of the new, gray Ford Taurus then turn toward the house. Il Duce removes a white balloon filled with a few ounces of fluid from the pocket of his black trench coat. He throws it on the walk, the blood splatters. He picks up the remnants of the balloon and puts them back in his pocket and stands there waiting, looking at the house. 
EXT.  SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  FRONT STOOP  DAY 
The boys come out, Rocco in the middle and slightly ahead of them. They look out to the walk, stunned. 
SMECKER Now they are staring at six guys with guns drawn. It was a fucking ambush. 
Our three heroes stand, their jaws dropping as their point of view reveals the Il Duce, standing alone, his hands folded in front of him. 
Suddenly, he throws open his trench coat to reveal a special leather vest beneath. Six guns, all different, are holstered on the front of it: three on each side extend from just below his collar bones to his abdomen. Connor and Murphy don't hesitate. They each draw one of their now unsilenced guns from their shoulder holsters and aim, one arm over each of Rocco's shoulders. The Duke draws his top two weapons and aims. 
SMECKER And this was a fucking bomb dropping in Beaver Cleaverville! For a few seconds this place was Armageddon! There was a fire fight! 
They all start shooting at once. The noise is deafening. 
The Taurus is being pierced and the front of the house is splintering as it is riddled with bullets. Smecker is still in the middle, hands raised to the heavens, turning circles. 
Rocco's pinky finger gets shot off, sending blood splattering against the house. He dives in the bushes reeling. He pulls a gun and starts firing. 
Murphy catches a bullet in the arm and dives for the bushes as well. Il Duce with lightening speed, drops the guns and pulls the next two down as he walks to his right about ten feet. He commences firing and the casings hit the sidewalk, all different calibers and sizes are dropping down the walk. 
It's him and Connor and nobody is backing down. They both grind their teeth as they fire rapidly at each other. At the same moment, The Duke gets hit in the arm and Connor takes a bullet in the leg. The firing ceases for a moment. 
Connor remains steady and Il Duce looks down at his arm and his own blood splattered on the sidewalk. 
IL DUCE No!... No! No!... 
He drops the guns and pulls the last two as he moves to the right. He fires with wrath as he screams the word No over and over. Rocco and Murphy return fire from the bushes yelling and swearing, as Connor does the same from his position on the stoop. 
The Duke turns and runs, leaving a sea of casings, and guns that extend for 35 feet down the walk. There are also two blood stains. 
In a frenzy the boys and Rocco get up and withdraw some spray bottles from their bags. The begin spraying all their own blood stains on the stoop and the front of the white house. 
They then pick up their things and run off. 
EXT. SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  FRONT LAWN  DAY 
Smecker comes back to reality and lights a cigarette in front of Dolly, Duffy, and Greenly. 
GREENLY What if it was just one guy with six guns? 
SMECKER Why don't you let me do the thinking, huh, genius? 
He turns to the forensics guys at the front of the house and begins to walk over to him. 
SMECKER What is taking so long with those blood samples? 
FORENSICS WOMAN #1 I can't get a good sample. There is variable here I'm not seeing. 
Smecker puts his finger through a big blood stain on the door and smells it. 
SMECKER (in shock, and rage) They used ammonia... none of this shit is any good... Fuck... You know what this means?! Even if we get suspects in this case, we got nothing... Nothing! 
He starts kicking the bushes and trying to tear them with his hands as he rages. The police and forensics all back off. 
SMECKER (screaming) Who the fuck are they?! I've never seen any-fucking-thing like this in my whole fucking life. Who the fuck are they?!! 
He backs against the building and slides down to a sitting position in the bushes as if he has given up. He raises his head and there he sees Rocco's pinky finger lying undiscovered in the bushes. He pulls a small plastic bag from his pocket and scoops it up. He shoves it back into his pocket and races off. 
DUFFY What? That's it?! 
INT.  ROCCO'S MOM'S KITCHEN  NIGHT 
Rocco, Connor, and Murphy are sitting around the table. 
They are numb with pain and silently sipping beers. Suddenly, Smecker comes on the news making an announcement that he is heading up the investigation to find the three of them. 
Rocco shuts it off. 
Rocco exits a package store just down the street. He is opening a new pack of cigarettes. He is surprised when he sees Smecker at the other end of the block. He follows the stumbling agent, fumbling for his gun. 
EXT.  STREET IN FRONT OF CHURCH  EARLY MORNING 
Paul sees a church and reflects for a moment before crossing the street and going in, Rocco a safe distance behind. 
INT.  CHURCH  EARLY MORNING 
Connor and Murphy are at prayer in the back of the church. 
It is mostly empty because of the early hour. 
Connor looks up and sees Smecker and Rocco way up in the front. His eyes are ablaze. He is up and walking and does not bother Murphy, who remains penitent. There are two confessional booths with a priest booth in the middle. 
Smecker goes in the booth on the far left. Rocco tries the door, it's locked. A middle-aged PRIEST slips a key in the priests booth and opens the door. Rocco shoves him in and goes in behind him. Connor has quickened his pace. He tries both doors. They're locked. He goes into the confessional on the right. 
INT.  CHURCH  PRIEST'S BOOTH  EARLY MORNING 
Rocco puts his gun to the priest's head. 
ROCCO You gonna do what I say, got it? 
PRIEST Yes. 
ROCCO I'm sorry you're gonna hafta see this. Don't look at me! 
PRIEST I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't see. 
ROCCO Shut up! Shut the fuck up! 
INT.  CHURCH  CONNOR'S CONFESSIONAL  EARLY MORNING 
Connor is furiously working his fingers through the lattice work to open the slider to the priest's booth from his side. 
INT.  CHURCH  PRIEST'S BOOTH  EARLY MORNING 
Rocco takes the priest and puts his face in front of the slider to Smecker's booth, gun to the back of his head. 
PRIEST Don't do this my son. 
ROCCO Open it! 
PRIEST Have you no fear of God? 
ROCCO That's who I'm doing this for, now open the fuckin' thing. 
Connor gets the slider open. Rocco's long hair hangs just inches from Connor's face. Connor puts his thumb and forefinger through, desperately reaching for a lock of Rocco's hair. Rocco jostles the priest and puts the gun hard to his head. 
ROCCO Father, I'll do you right here. 
PRIEST (slowly obey, whispering) God have mercy on my soul. 
Rocco starts to move the priest aside and put his gun to Smecker's now open slider. 
Just then Connor snags a piece of Rocco's hair and pulls him back hard and fast by it, until his head slams into the lattice work. Rocco grabs the priest back into position. 
Connor grabs a nice wad of Rocco's hair with his left hand, so that the side of Rocco's face is now pressed to the lattice. Connor then puts a gun to Rocco's head. 
CONNOR (hard whisper) You little fuck. Let him go. I'll drop you right here. 
ROCCO Okay, just calm down. He could hurt us, brother. He could ruin the whole thing. 
CONNOR Let him go or I will deliver you, right now. (pulls hammer back) 
ROCCO You won't do it Connor, you won't. You love me man. 
INT.  CHURCH CONFESSIONAL BOOTHS  EARLY MORNING 
Smecker wakes up from a drunken stupor. He looks through the slider window at the barely discernible face of the now crying priest. 
SMECKER (slurred, loud) Hello? You there? 
PRIEST Y-Yes my son. 
ROCCO (whispers to priest) Goddam right, I am. 
SMECKER I'm beginning to see. I've been doing my job... well for fifteen years and it's just not enough. All the things I wish I could do, these guys are doing. Millions of dollars in tax payers' money wasted on shit like wire taps and surveillance. Theses boys go in and take care of it for the price of a bullet. (looks up) Ww-what do you think I should do? Because I'm a law man. 
Rocco jostles the priest again. 
PRIEST The laws of God are higher than the laws of man. 
SMECKER (the clouds have lifted) Yes! Yes! I was thinking that, too. No. I was feeling it. All I needed was to hear you say it! Amen! I'll help them. 
PRIEST (whispers) Forgive me father. 
SMECKER Thank you, Father, thank you. (he attempts the sign of the cross but screws it up) Whatever. Goodbye, amen. 
Smecker exits and they all let go after a brief pause. Rocco turns and starts fixing up the priest's ruffled suit. 
ROCCO I wouldn't have, uh, killed you, Father. (signs cross) Dominus Ominus. Remember, you're bound. You can't talk about this... to anyone. 
PRIEST Just go! 
INT.  CHURCH  EARLY MORNING 
Rocco exits the booth and shuts the door behind him. Connor is standing outside, hands on his hips. Rocco smiles at him as Connor fumes. 
ROCCO (giggling) The Lord works in mysterious ways. 
Connor slaps him in the back of the head and kicks him in the ass. Rocco's still giggling as they exit. 
INT.  PHONE BOOTH  UPTOWN  LATER 
SMECKER That's all you can give me? 
INT.  PHONE BOOTH  DOWNTOWN  CONTINUOUS 
We shoot alternating coverage between the two locations. 
CONNOR Well, the light caught the side of his face for a second. And it looked like he had a gray beard, maybe... late fifties, early sixties. 
SMECKER So you're telling me it was one guy with six guns? A-and he was a senior fucking citizen? 
CONNOR I think it's better if we find this man before he finds us again. 
SMECKER I'll see what I can do. How do I get in touch with you? 
CONNOR We're going to hit Poppa Joe tonight, right in the comfort of his own home. Then we move on to New York. It's getting a bit hot for us here. 
SMECKER Be careful. 
CONNOR I'll call you tonight, afterwards. (hangs up) 
INT.  RITZY RESTAURANT BATHROOM  NIGHT 
Smecker stands beside Augustus, just the way Yakavetta did. 
AUGUSTUS I don't know who he is. Nobody does. 
Smecker tosses an envelope of cash in his plate, just as Yakavetta did. 
SMECKER What did he bring him in for? 
AUGUSTUS Needed an outsider. The package boy knows everyone. He'd spot our hitters a mile away. 
SMECKER Just for him? 
AUGUSTUS Well he's the one shooting up all his guys, right? He's scared of the kid. Says he's real good, got every available gun in the city up there. 
SMECKER Up where? 
AUGUSTUS Up his house. I don't know what's going on but I know it's gotta have something to do with this kid. 
SMECKER Oh fuck! (runs out) 
INT.  YAKAVETTA'S HOUSE  BASEMENT HALL  NIGHT 
