"BRAVEHEART" 
by 
Randall Wallace 
Early Draft 
FADE IN: 
EXT. THE SCOTTISH COUNTRYSIDE - DAY 
Epic beauty: cobalt mountains beneath a glowering purple sky fringed with pink, as if the clouds were a lid too small for the earth; a cascading landscape of boulders shrouded in deep green grass; and the blue lochs, reflecting the sky. We hear a voice, husky, Scottish... 
VOICE OVER I will tell you of William Wallace. 
EXT. MACANDREWS FARM - DAY 
A farmhouse and a large barn lie nestled in a Scottish valley. Riding down the roads that lead in from opposite sides are Scottish noblemen in full regalia: eye-popping tartans, sparkling chestplates. Even the horses are draped in scarlet. Behind each nobleman rides a single page boy. 
VOICE OVER Historians from England will say I am a liar. But history is written by those who have hung heroes. 
Another noble rides in from the opposite side. Two more appear down the road, converging on the barn. 
VOICE OVER The King of Scotland had died without a son, and the king of England, a cruel pagan known as Edward the Longshanks, claimed the throne for himself. Scotlands nobles fought him, and fought each other, over the crown. So Longshanks invited them to talks of truce. No weapons, one page only. 
The nobles eye each other cautiously, but the truce holds. 
They enter the barn, with their pages... 
EXT. SCOTTISH FARM - DAY 
Nestled in emerald hills are the thatched roof house and barn and outbuildings of a well-run farm. The farmer, MALCOLM WALLACE, and his nineteen-year-old son JOHN, both strong, tough men, are riding away from the farm. They hear hooves behind them and turn to see a boy riding after them. 
VOICE OVER Among the farmers of that shire was Malcolm Wallace, a commoner, with his own lands and two sons: John... 
We FAVOR JOHN WALLACE, the nineteen-year-old sitting easily on his horse, beside his father... 
VOICE OVER ...and William. 
WILLIAM, a skinny eight-year-old riding bareback, catches up to his father and older brother. 
FATHER Told ya to stay. 
WILLIAM I finished my chores. Where we goin'? 
FATHER MacAndrews'. He was supposed to visit when the truce was over. 
They ride on, over the lush hills. 
EXT. THE MACANDREWS FARM - DAY 
The horses are all gone; the place looks deserted. UP ON THE HILL we see the three Wallaces, looking down. 
FATHER Stay here. 
He means William. He and his elder son spur their horses. 
AT THE BARN - DAY 
The Wallaces ride up, looking around. 
FATHER MacAndrews!... MacAndrews!? 
Malcolm finds a pitchfork, John the woodpile axe... 
INT. THE BARN 
POV from within as the door opens and a widening block of sunlight illuminates the dusty shadows. Malcolm and John Wallace step in, and are shocked to see... 
POV THE WALLACES 
Hanging from the rafters of the barn are thirty Scottish noblemen and thirty pages, their faces purple and contorted by the strangulation hanging, their tongues protruding. 
Malcolm stabs the pitchfork into the ground in useless anger; John still grips the axe as he follows his father through the hanging bodies of the noblemen to the back row, to see the one man in commoner's dress, like theirs... 
FATHER MacAndrews. 
A SHUFFLE; John spins; William has entered the back door. 
Once again the boy stands in the doorway of the barn, looking at the garish, hanged faces in his nightmare. Then a mangled hand comes from behind him and grasps his shoulder, William gasps, but the hand holds him gently. He turns to see his father, and his brother! They are wounded, bloody, but they smile at him; they're alive! Weeping in joy, William reaches to hug them, but his father stretches forth a forbidding hand. 
William keeps reaching out helplessly. His father and brother move past him to the hanged knights. Two empty nooses are there. Before the boy's weeping eyes they put their heads into the nooses, and hoist themselves up. 
William's grief explodes; his tears erupt and 
HE WAKES IN HIS BEDROOM 
tears flooding down his face. A dream! Still upset, still grieving, he gets up and goes looking for his uncle. 
INT. HOUSE - NIGHT 
William moves down to the room where his uncle would be sleeping. He opens the door. The bed has been slept in -- but his uncle is not there. He moves downstairs to 
THE KITCHEN 
But his uncle is not there either. Then William hears a strange, haunting sound-distant, carried by the wind. He moves to the window and sees only moonlight. He opens the window and hears it more clearly: bagpipes. William lights a candle and throws open the door. Wind rushes in, blowing out his candle. But he hears the pipes, louder in the wind. 
EXT. WALLACE HOUSE - NIGHT 
William is barefoot and in only his nightshirt; but the sound of the pipes is growing louder. He moves through the moonlight, drawn toward -- the graveyard! He stops as he realizes this, then forces himself on. 
EXT. GRAVEYARD - NIGHT 
William moves to the top of the hill where his ancestors are buried, and discovers a haunting scene: two dozen men, the farmer/warriors of his neighborhood, are gathered in kilts -- and among them, a core of bagpipers. The pipes wail an ancient Scottish dirge, a tune of grief and redemption, a melody known to us as "Amazing Grace." Uncle Argyle has heard them and walked out too; he stands at the fringes of the torchlight, still holding the massive broadsword. He glances down, noticing William as the boy moves up beside him. William whispers... 
WILLIAM What are they doing? 
ARGYLE Saying goodbye in their own way -- in outlawed tartans, with outlawed pipes, playing outlawed tunes. 
The farmers file by the graveside, crossing themselves, each whispering his own private prayer. Argyle whispers, half to William, and half to himself... 
ARGYLE Your Daddy and I, we saw our own father buried like this, dead from fighting the English. 
William takes the sword from his uncle, and tries to lift it. 
Slowly, Argyle takes the sword back. 
ARGYLE First learn to use this. 
He taps William on the temple with the tip of his finger. 
ARGYLE Then I will teach you to use this. 
With an expert's easy fluidity, he lifts the huge sword. It glistens in the torchlight. The music plays, the notes hanging in the air, swirling in the Scottish breeze as if rising towards the stars... 
EXT. WALLACE FARM - DAY 
William and his uncle ride off in a farm wagon. William has a bundle of clothes in his lap, and glances at his uncle as if afraid of his disapproval if he looks back. But he does glance back just once, to see the deserted farmhouse. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. WESTMINSTER ABBEY - ROYAL WEDDING - DAY 
Amid the scarlet and ermine robes of officiating lords, with gemstones sparkling everywhere, we hear... 
VOICE OVER Twelve years later, Longshanks supervised the wedding of his eldest son, also named Edward, who would succeed him to the throne. 
LONGSHANKS, King of England, stands in the jeweled light of the ancient Abbey. Known as Longshanks because of the spindly legs that make him almost seven feet tall, he has a hawk's nose and a snake's eyes, punctuating a face of distinct cruelty. Historians of his day considered him and the line of Plantagenets from which he came to be devil worshipers. 
VOICE OVER As bride for his son, Longshanks had chosen a relative of his rival, the king of France. 
GENEVIEVE, a nineteen-year-old virgin of stupendous beauty moves down the aisle, the light in her face outshining her blindingly white wedding gown. As she reaches the altar her hands tremble, but she maintains her poise and control. 
She looks toward EDWARD, Prince of Wales. Pampered young men surround him as his retinue. He takes her hand coldly and goes through the ceremony under his father's stare. 
VOICE OVER It was widely whispered that for the Princess to conceive, Longshanks would have to do the honors himself. That may have been what he had in mind all along. 
The ceremony concluding, attendants lift back the bride's veil. Her wedding day, the ultimate moment -- and Prince Edward ignores her, to turn back to his friends. But prompted by one of the sour lords, he leans over and pecks his new Princess on the cheek. For an instant, we see in her eyes that her heart is dying. But she keeps her poise. 
VOICE OVER Having seen to his obligations to provide for a successor, Longshanks set about his fondest business -- to crush Scotland, and turn his power against France... 
CLOSE - A MAP OF THE BRITISH ISLES 
Longshanks' narrow finger jabs Scotland. 
LONGSHANKS Scotland! Scot-land! 
We are in the -- 
EDWARD You may. 
She starts to leave, as quietly as she came. But her husband calls after her. 
EDWARD Don't worry, m'Lady, it is my royal responsibility to breed. And I assure you, when the time comes, I shall... manage. 
She closes the door softly, on her husband and his lover. 
VOICE OVER Now in Edinburgh were gathered the council of Scottish nobles... 
ESTABLISHING COUNCIL - DAY 
The picturesque heart of Scotland, with its CASTLE on a fairy tale plateau above the Firth of Forth. 
INT. EDINBURGH CASTLE - DAY 
The nobles are gathered around a huge table. They rise at the entrance of young ROBERT THE BRUCE, a handsome young man, full of intelligence and power. 
VOICE OVER Among these was Robert, the 17th Earl of Bruce, a leading contender for the crown of Scotland. 
Robert strides to his seat in the center of the table, and the others settle in respectfully. MORNAY, another young warrior, gives him a bow, as does CRAIG, a grizzled noble. 
CRAIG Young Robert, we are honored -- 
ROBERT My father hears that Longshanks has granted prima noctes. 
CRAIG Clearly meant to draw more of his supporters here. 
MORNAY The Balliol clan has endorsed the right, licking Longshanks' boots so he will support their claim to the throne. If we make a show of opposition, the commoners will favor us. 
ROBERT It is too soon to step out alone. My father believes we must lull Longshanks into confidence, by neither supporting his decree nor opposing it. 
CRAIG A wise plan. And how is your father? We have missed him at the council. 
ROBERT He strained his leg so that it pains him to ride. But he sends his greetings -- and says that I speak for all the Bruces. And for Scotland. 
EXT. SCOTTISH VILLAGE, AT THE EDGE OF TOWN - DAY 
Flutes and dancing; laughter and garlands; village families have gathered for a wedding celebration -- we see the happy bride and groom. Farmers cart in fresh bread and hoops of cheese; villagers arrive with casks of beer or strings of smoked fish. 
And watching the people are ubiquitous English soldiers, battlescarred veterans with missing eyes and ears. 
Riding along the road comes William Wallace. Grown now, a man. He sits his horse as if born there, his back straight, his hands relaxed on the reins. He has a look of lean, rippled power. He looks dangerous. 
And the soldiers notice him, nudging each other as he passes. 
He carries a dead wild goose hanging across his saddle; he stops his horse at the edge of the clearing and surveys the scene. Farmers are roasting a pig; women are comparing handiwork; young men are tossing huge stones in the traditional Highland games -- and everyone is noticing William's arrival, especially the farm women with daughters of marriageable age. 
Among those watching William arrive is Campbell, grown older now; and with his old rebel friend, MacClannough. William dismounts and ties his horse to a willow. One of the English SOLDIERS shoves William from behind. 
SOLDIER Hey boy! You hunt this bird? 
William's eyes fix themselves on the soldier. 
SOLDIER It's against the law for Scots to own bows. You shot this bird? 
His buddies, enjoying their role as intimidators, grab the bird and begin to search it for evidence. 
WILLIAM I hit it in the head. With a rock. 
They don't believe that -- but they can't find any puncture wound on the bird. William reaches his hand out for the return of the bird. The soldiers drop it onto the ground. 
Slowly, William picks it up, and heads into the clearing. 
The farmers watch him come. 
Among those noticing William's arrival, but pretending not to, is MARION MacCLANNOUGH, grown now into a stunning young woman; her long auburn hair reminds us of those years long ago; she wears it the same way, straight and full down her back. Her dress is plain, like the grass that surrounds a wildflower. She's the most beautiful girl in the village, maybe in all of Scotland, and the soldiers who hassled William notice her too. 
William reaches the food table and contributes his goose to the feast. FARM WOMEN eye him; he nodes to one. 
WILLIAM Miz MacDougal. You look well. 
FARM WOMAN ...William? It's William Wallace, back home! -- Have you met my daughter? 
The daughter mentioned is missing teeth. William nods to her. It's impossible for him to giver her a smile as bright as her hopes, and she lowers her head in disappointment. But then raises her face in surprise as William takes her hand and gives her a respectful bow. 
He moves away from the table, passing through the crowd like a stranger. Then he glances toward the knot of girls. He sees Marion. She sees him, then looks away. Do they remember each other? He moves toward her; she is shy, her eyes downcast, but then she raises them and looks at him. 
They move closer and closer together. Just as they are about to reach each other, a huge round stone THUMPS to the earth at Williams' feet. 
Grinning, they embrace. MUSIC plays, the dancing begins. 
William walks to the knot of young ladies... but passes Marion, and moves to the girl with the missing teeth. 
WILLIAM Would you honor me with a dance? 
She's thrilled to accept; they begin to dance. 
GIRL You've taken over your father's farm? (beat) They say he died long ago. Fighting the English. 
WILLIAM He died in an accident, with my brother. Their cart turned over. 
The musicians interrupt their playing; a group of heavily armed horsemen, with banners and flying colors, ride up, reining their horses into the middle of the celebration. In the middle of the group is an English NOBLEMAN; he is gray, in his fifties, and stops in front of the BRIDE and groom. 
NOBLEMAN I have come to claim the right of prima noctes. As the lord of these lands, I will bless this marriage by taking the bride into my bed on the first night of her union. 
Stewart, father of the BRIDE, lunges forward. 
STEWART No, by God! 
The horsemen point their lances at the unarmed Scots -- who see that the English soldiers from the village have moved to the edge of the gathering, as if to dare any resistance. 
NOBLEMAN It is my noble right. 
Even unarmed, Stewart is about to attack -- but the bride intervenes. She grabs her father and whispers to him. She moves to her husband and does the same. Holding back tears, she allows herself to be pulled up behind one of the horsemen. Marion MacClannough is looking on, sobered by her friend's courage and sickened by her fate -- and Marion is even more unsettled as she notices that one of the soldiers, a particularly nasty looking brute with a scarred face, is leering at her. William Wallace sees this too. 
The noble and his escorts ride away, and as they do it begins to rain. The celebration destroyed, the Scots gather the food and disperse to their homes. But Wallace remains, standing in the downpour, keeping his thoughts to himself. 
EXT. THE WALLACE FARMHOUSE - MAGIC HOUR 
The farmhouse looks lonely and forlorn. William stands at the open door, and gazes out at the rain; it leaks on him, through his roof; he doesn't seem to notice. 
EXT. THE MACCLANNOUGH HOUSE - MAGIC HOUR 
A thatched cottage, lit with a cozy fire, beneath the rain. 
A hand KNOCKS on the door, and MacClannough opens it to find William, on a horse! MacClannough frowns. 
WILLIAM Good evening, sir. May I speak with your daughter? 
Mrs. MacClannough shoulders up beside her husband, and Marion appears behind her scowling parents. 
WILLIAM Marion... Would you like to go for a ride on this fine evening? 
MOTHER The boy's insane! 
WILLIAM It's good Scottish weather, Madam, the rain is fallin' straight down. 
MOTHER She absolutely may not, she'll -- Marion! 
Marion has grabbed a cloak off the back of the door; she runs out to hop up behind William, and they gallop away. 
THE RIDE - MAGIC HOUR 
William and Marion race along the heather, up and down hills, through swollen streams. The rain stops, as the sun sets; the Scottish mists lift, revealing stunning natural beauty. 
William stops the horse and they look out over it all together. He speaks, without turning to face her. 
WILLIAM Your father doesn't like me, does he? 
MARION It's not you. He dislikes that you're a Wallace. He just says... the Wallaces don't seem to live for very long. 
WILLIAM Thank you for accepting. 
MARION Thank you for inviting. 
WILLIAM I'll invite you again, but your mother thinks I'm crazy. 
MARION You are. And I'll come again. 
He lingers; he wants to say something, or maybe he just doesn't want the moment to end. Finally he spurs the horse. 
EXT. THE MACCLANNOUGH HOUSE - NIGHT 
They reach the door. William hops off the horse and reaches up to help her down the moment she touches the ground, they look into each other's eyes... but the door is snatched open so quickly by her mother that there is not time for a kiss. 
MOTHER Marion, come in! 
He walks her closer to the door. They turn and look at each other again. She waits for him to kiss her... 
INSERT - HIS NOTE 
Tonight. By the trees. 
EXT. MARION'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Marion slips out of the house and runs to the trees, where William waits with horses. She fetches a bundle she's stashed in the crook of a tree, and they mount and ride off. 
EXT. RUINS OF AN ANCIENT CHURCH - NIGHT 
The church is at the base of the precipice, beside the loch. 
INT. THE CHURCH - NIGHT 
This ancient Gaelic place of worship has been destroyed by the occupying army, and yet it looks devoutly holy this way, lit only by candles and moonlight through the open roof. The village PRIEST whom we saw at the wedding celebration is waiting at the altar. Marion steps into the confessional, as William moves to the altar and kneels in prayer. 
Marion emerges; she's changed into the wedding dress she made from the cloth she bought. William stands and watches her float down the aisle; his whole life was worth this moment. 
Together, the two lovers turn to the priest. 
PRIEST You have come to pledge, each to the other, before Almighty God. 
From within his shirt, William withdraws a strip of cloth woven in his family tartan. He and Marion each lift a hand to the priest, and he binds their wrists with the cloth. 
WILLIAM I will love you my whole life. You and no other. 
From her dress she takes a handmade handkerchief, embroidered with a thistle to look like the one she first gave him those years ago. 
MARION And I you. You and no other. Forever. 
The Priest waits for them to go on, but neither can; they're too taken with emotion, looking at each other. The Priest intones holy phrases... 
PRIEST Agus bhayd lauch... The Lord bless and keep thy love, now and forever. 
The lovers kiss. As they break their embrace, a figure carrying something dark and spiky appears at the broken door of the church, and William spins as if to attack, but the Priest catches his arm; they see the man carries bagpipes. 
PRIEST I trust him -- or I'd'a killed him me'self. A weddin' needs pipes. 
The piper begins to play, and the tune from his primitive chanter is wispy, ethereal, beautiful. The lovers look into each other's eyes, as the single melody of the pipes merges into a swell of music, UNDERSCORING MONTAGE 
William and Marion ride the path to the top of the precipice, where, in the shelter of the grove, they spend their honeymoon. The MUSIC CONTINUES as, still sweaty from their love-making, he returns her to her house just before dawn. 
She waves from her window, as William rides away, as we 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. VILLAGE OF LANARK - DAY 
It's Market Day in the village, busy with Highlanders, merchants of all kinds, and a few special attractions like jugglers and fortune tellers. Marion moves along a table full of flowers and fruit... William, concealed behind hanging baskets, watches her unseen, savoring the beauty of his beloved, bathing his soul in the sight of her. Then she looks up and spots him, her smile sudden and luminous, before she remembers to conceal it. He moves up beside her. 
WILLIAM I've missed you. 
MARION Shush. It's only been a day. (beat) And it's seemed like forever. 
WILLIAM Tonight then. 
MARION My parents are growing suspicious! I can't keep meeting you every night! 
Playfully he pokes his finger under the collar of her dress, pulling up the strip of checked cloth he gave her at their wedding, which she now wears hidden around her neck. 
WILLIAM Then when? 
MARION ...Tonight! 
Tucking in the cloth strip, she hurries away, smiling. 
ANGLE - DRUNKEN ENGLISH SOLDIERS - BY AN ALE CASK - DAY 
They spot Marion moving through the fair, glowing, beautiful. 
The soldiers smirk at each other; as Marion passes, one of them grabs her wrist. It's the soldier with the scar, the one who's been staring at her. 
SOLDIER Where are you going... lass? 
MARION Let go. 
A second drunken SOLDIER pipes up. 
SOLDIER #2 Why don't you marry my friend here? Then I'll take the first night! 
MAGISTRATE So why is this strip concealed? (beat) He fought for you, eh? 
EXT. TOWN SQUARE - DAY 
The Magistrate and his men bring Marion into the village center, and tie her to a post of the well. The townspeople don't want to be near the soldiers, but they hang on the fringes of the square, too curious to pull away. 
MAGISTRATE An assault on the king's soldiers is the same as assaulting the king! 
He looks down at Marion, her mouth bound, her eyes defiant. 
He jerks out his dagger and slices Marion's throat! 
Her eyes spring open like a doe's; then she sags, dead. The townspeople are speechless; even some of the soldiers are shocked. The Magistrate turns calmly to his men. 
MAGISTRATE Now. Let this scrapper come to me. 
LONG SHOT - EXT. THE GROVE AT THE PRECIPICE - DAY 
From a distance, we see Hamish approaching the grove, the same one where he and William played as boys. Hamish moves reluctantly, forcing himself forward; as he reaches the grove, William appears, hurrying out to him. 
We STAY IN THE LONG SHOT, seeing William asking anxiously for any news, and seeing Hamish's great shoulders as he tells him something that makes William step backwards... 
EXT. LANARK VILLAGE - DAY 
At a barrier across the main road into the center of the village are twenty professional soldiers, entrenched, fully armed -- bows, pikes, swords. They hear A HORSE'S SNORT... 
THE ENGLISH SOLDIERS' POV - WALLACE, ON HIS HORSE 
He has stopped, rock still. The soldiers hush; there is something unsettling about this man alone, staring at the twenty of them, as if to steel himself for the butchery. 
Wallace raises his sword, screams... and charges! 
EXT. VARIOUS ANGLES - LANARK VILLAGE - DAY - THE FIGHT 
We FAVOR WALLACE'S SUBJECTIVE POV: the barrier as his horse pounds toward it, the faces of the enemy soldiers with their eyes white with fear... They stand to shoot at him with their bows; the arrows WHISH toward the lens, fly past... 
The arrows tear through Wallace's clothes, but don't catch his flesh. He charges on; his horse LEAPS the barrier as Wallace simultaneously swings the broadsword -- and he's more than an expert: the tip, at the end of a huge arc, nearly breaks the sound barrier and the blade bites through the corporal's helmet, taking off the upper half of his head! 
The soldiers try to rally, to shoot him in the back as his horse leaps over them. One of them has sighted William's back... But Hamish and his father crash into them! It's a wild fight; old Campbell takes an arrow through the shoulder but keeps hacking with his sword; Hamish batters down two men -- and more Scots arrive! They overwhelm the soldiers. 
WALLACE RACES THROUGH THE VILLAGE - FAVORING HIS POV 
He dodges obstacles in the narrow streets -- chickens, carts, barrels. Soldiers pop up; the first he gallops straight over; the next he whacks forehand, like a polo player; the next chops down on his left side; every time he swings the broadsword, a man dies. 
Wallace gallops on; his farmer neighbors, and people from the village, follow in his wake. 
EXT. IN THE VILLAGE - DAY 
The Magistrate hears the APPROACHING SHOUTS. He and thirty more of his men are barricaded around the village square. 
MAGISTRATE Don't look surprised! We knew he'd bring friends! 
The see Wallace gallop into sight; but he stops, then heads down a side street. 
The Magistrate and his men don't like this; where did he go? 
Which way will he come from? And then they hear the horses, and see the other Scots, at the head of the main street. The soldiers unleash a volley of arrows at them. 
They are loading to fire again when Wallace runs in -- on foot! -- and cuts down two soldiers! The other Scots charge! 
The startled soldiers break and run in every direction. 
The Magistrate, abandoned, runs too. Wallace pursues. 
Not far along a twisting lane, the bulky Magistrate falters. 
He turns to fight, and Wallace slashes away his sword. 
MAGISTRATE No! I beg you... mercy! 
IN THE TOWN SQUARE 
As the Scots see Wallace, they break off pursuing the English soldiers and stop to watch; dragging the Magistrate by his hair, Wallace hauls him back into the village square, slams him against the well, and stands over him with heaving lungs and wild eyes, staring at Marion's murderer. 
MAGISTRATE Please. Mercy! 
Wallace's eyes shift, falling on 
THE STAIN OF BLOOD 
WALLACE Today we will spare you, and every man who has yielded. Go back to England. Tell them Scotland's daughters and her sons are yours no more. Tell them Scotland is free. 
As the Scots cheer, Wallace throws Lord Bottoms onto the nag's back and slaps the horse's rear. IT shambles away, followed by the English survivors, as the Scots chant... 
SCOTS Wal-lace, Wal-lace, Wal-lace!... 
CLOSE - A GRAVESTONE - EXT. HIGHLANDS - DAY 
The marker is carved with the name MARION MacCLANNOUGH, and beneath her name A THISTLE is chiseled into the stone. 
Bagpipes wail like banshees and the Priest who married Marion and William now mutters ancient prayers as her body, wrapped in burial canvas, is lowered into the earth, under the sad eyes of those who just fought in the battle. 
Opposite William stands old MacClannough; he stares across the open hole that accepts the body of his daughter, his eyes full of pain, and then staggers away. 
Wallace kneels at the graveside in unspeakable grief. From within his shirt he withdraws the embroidered handkerchief she gave him, and the bloodstained strip of cloth he gave her. He places the strip over her heart, and as the gravediggers fill the hole her returns the handkerchief to its spot over his own heart. 
EXT. LONDON PALACE - DAY 
Prince Edward is in his garden, playing the medieval version of croquet with his friend. The Princess, ignored, sits watching. Longshanks marches through the game, furious. 
LONGSHANKS Scottish rebels have routed Lord Bottoms! 
EDWARD I hear. This Wallace is a bandit, nothing more. 
Longshanks slaps his son, knocking him down among the colored balls and wickets. Everyone gasps, stunned. 
LONGSHANKS You weak little coward! Stand up! 
Longshanks jerks him to his feet. 
LONGSHANKS I go to France to press our rights there! I leave you to handle this little rebellion, do you understand? DO YOU?! 
Longshanks grabs his son by the throat. 
LONGSHANKS And turn yourself into a man. 
The king leaves. The friends of the humiliated Prince hurry to him and lift him; as the Princess moves to him too... 
EDWARD Get away from me! 
He slaps her! Her personal guards, Frenchmen in distinctive uniforms, jump from their seats at the edge of the garden, but the Princess raises a hand to show she needs no assistance, and curtseys to Edward, who shouts -- 
EDWARD Convene my military council! 
As Edward marches off with his entourage, NICOLETTE, a beautiful raven-haired Handmaiden, rushes to the Princess, who is wobbly, hurt more than she let show. Nicolette whispers to her in French, with subtitles... 
NICOLETTE They say this Wallace killed thirty men to avenge the death of his woman. I hope your husband goes to Scotland. Then you'll be a widow. 
INT. BRUCE'S CASTLE - BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT 
Robert the Bruce is in bed with a young Nordic beauty with vacant blue eyes. She drowses; but the lovemaking has not defused the restlessness of Robert's spirit. He lies on his stomach, turned away from her on the bed. Stirring, she kisses his neck; but he doesn't respond. 
WOMAN I wanted to please you. 
ROBERT You did. 
But he is numb as she nuzzles him again. She sags back, and he still stares away, lost in thought. Realizing her hurt, he explains... 
ROBERT In Lanark village, the king's soldiers killed a girl. Her lover fought his way through the soldiers and killed the magistrate. 
She looks at him blankly. 
ROBERT He rebelled. He rebelled. He acted. He fought! Was it rage? Pride? Love? Whatever it was, he has more of it than I. 
WOMAN (hurt) You might have lied. 
ROBERT I'm too arrogant to lie. 
CLOSE - ROBERT THE BRUCE 
On his FACE as he moves grimly up a dark castle staircase. 
He follows a servant who carries a candle against the gloom. 
They reach a door, which the servant unlocks. Young Robert takes the candle, and enters -- 
A DARKENED ROOM 
Robert wills himself forward, and places the candle on a table in the center of the room. A SHUFFLE in the dark; then moving into the light is a LEPER whose once-noble features are decaying with the disease. Isolated in his disfiguration, he looks at his visitor -- his son -- with the eyes of the condemned. Young Robert forces himself not to look away. 
WALLACE We make spears. A hundred spears. Fourteen feet long. 
HAMISH Fourteen? -- 
SENTRY (O.S.) Volunteers coming in! 
They look to see a half dozen new volunteers being led in, blindfolded. When the guides remove the blindfolds, the new recruits see Wallace and rush to him, bowing. 
RECRUIT (FAUDRON) William Wallace? We have come to fight and die for you! 
WALLACE Stand up, man, I'm not the Pope. 
FAUDRON I am Faudron! My sword is yours! And I brought you this tarta -- 
As he reaches into his cloak, both Hamish and Campbell instantly draw their swords and put the points to his neck. 
SENTRY We checked them for arms. 
Carefully, Faudron pulls out a beautiful tartan scarf, and replaces Wallace's tattered old one. 
FAUDRON It's your family tartan! My wife wove it with her own hands. 
WALLACE Thank her for me. 
A loud voice interrupts... 
VOICE Him? That can't be William Wallace! I'm prettier than this man! 
They all look at a slender, handsome young man, STEPHEN, who is talking to himself -- or more accurately, seems to listen to some unheard voice, then answer it... 
STEPHEN All right, Father, I'll ask him! (to William) If I risk my neck for you, will I get a chance to kill Englishmen? 
HAMISH Is your Poppa a ghost -- or do you converse with God Almighty? 
STEPHEN In order to find his equal, and Irishman is forced to talk to God. (quickly) Yes, Father!... (to Wallace) The Almighty says don't change the subject, just answer the fookin' question. 
CAMPBELL Insane Irish -- 
Stephen whips a dagger from his sleeve and puts it at Campbell's throat. 
STEPHEN Smart enough to get a dagger past your guards, old man. 
Wallace jerks his sword to the Irishman's throat, and grins. 
WALLACE That's my friend, Irishman. And the answer's yes. You fight for me, you kill the English. 
Stephen grins, and happily tucks away the dagger. 
STEPHEN Excellent! Stephen is my name. I'm the most wanted man on the Emerald Isle. Except I'm not on the Emerald Isle of course, more's the pity. 
HAMISH A common thief. 
STEPHEN A patriot! 
Wallace shakes his head and moves back to the fire, as the sentries take the newcomers to find their own spaces. 
EXT. SCOTTISH COUNTRYSIDE - DAY 
A column of English light cavalry -- a hundred riders -- moves through the picturesque beauty of the Highlands. 
English LORD DOLECROFT is in command, wearing a hat with a pompous white plume. UP AHEAD, the English SCOUT sees five Scots, including Hamish, walking out of the forest. The Scots run; the Scout rides back to Dolecroft. 
SCOUT Scotsmen, Sire! Headed west! 
DOLECROFT They've blundered at last! After them! 
The English force charges off. Hamish and his men changed direction but the English spot them crossing a hilltop and ride after them. The Scots run for their lives; the English horses gallop. The Scots run down one slope, up another; the English follow, find their horses stumbling, and see... 
SCOUT We're in a bog! 
DOLECROFT Here, it's firm this way -- 
But as they move toward the firm ground, fifty Scots appear on the crest of the hill. Hamish leads them, smiling. 
Dolecroft wheels and looks to his rear; Wallace appears there, with fifty more, and more Scots appear to the left and right of the English, who are surrounded in the bog. Too late, Dolecroft realizes his blunder. Wallace lifts his broadsword, screams, and leads the charge... 
EXT. SCOTTISH WOODS - DAY 
The Scots are moving through deep woods; they are laden with the booty they took from the English cavalry: extra weapons, clothing, food -- and one man even wears the late Dolecroft's plumed hat. Wallace is leading them, traveling with his heavy sheathed broadsword across his shoulders. 
WALLACE The dogs have a scent. My scent. Someone must have given it to them. 
STEPHEN Who would do such a thing? 
WALLACE Exactly. 
Wallace pulls out his dagger... 
THE DOGS 
bark frantically now; they smell a kill; they tug so hard at their leashes that the handlers are almost dragged along. 
HANDLER Be ready! We have them! 
The soldiers grip their weapons, ready to take their prisoners. They burst into the little clearing; the dogs find a body, stabbed, his throat cut; the dogs plunge their snouts into the gore, yipping wildly. The handlers must fight furiously to tear the dogs from the body. 
Lord Pickering approaches the body and looks down. It is Faudron, mangled now but clearly identifiable -- with the scarf he gave William, in place of William's own, tucked into his shirt. 
LORD PICKERING Damnation! Damnation! 
As Pickering rants, his men look at the darkness all around. 
LORD PICKERING After him! Get them going again! 
HANDLER Their noses are drowned in new blood, they'll follow nothing now! 
And just as the realization hits Pickering that he can't pursue Wallace any further, a cloaked figure mixed in among his men leans in from behind him to whisper... 
STEPHEN OF IRELAND The Almighty says for you to give His regards to the Devil. 
Pickering's eyes go wide, then roll back as Stephen's dagger slides expertly through his back ribs and into his heart. As Pickering falls and his men realize what has happened, Stephen has already run back into the trees. 
Pickering's men freeze at this sudden turn of events. Even the dogs whimper, picking up the rising fear of the men around them. Then from the darkness all around them comes a chorus of demonic, bloodcurdling yells -- 
WALLACE/HAMISH/STEPHEN ARRRRRGGGGGGGHHHH! 
Three wild men tear out of the darkness from different directions, their swords slashing. Pickering's men panic and run, their dogs yelping, and the other soldiers, evident by their torches, fell with them in all directions. 
Wallace, Hamish and Stephen are left alone in the heart of the woods, howling, barking like dogs, snarling like wolves -- and then laughing like hyenas! 
STEPHEN I thought I was dead when ya pulled that dagger! 
WALLACE No English lord would trust an Irishman! 
HAMISH Let's kill him anyway. 
They laugh again; then Wallace's laughter leaks away, and he stares into the trees, where he saw Marion in his dream. 
VARIOUS SHOTS - THE STORY SPREADS THROUGH SCOTLAND... 
Two men are talking in A VILLAGE... 
VILLAGER ...and William Wallace killed fifty men! Fifty, if it was one! 
The same tale is exchanged by two farmers AT A CROSSROADS... 
FARMER A hundred men! With his own sword! He cut a through the English like -- 
The tale is repeated IN A TAVERN... 
DRINKER -- Moses through the Red Sea! Hacked off two hundred heads! 
DRINKER #2 Two hundred?! 
DRINKER Saw it with my own eyes. 
And the rumors are discussed even INSIDE THE PALACE GROUNDS IN LONDON, where the Prince and his friends are trying on elaborate attire presented them by fawning tailors, and the Princess, ignored by her husband, strolls and chats with her Handmaiden, Nicolette (in subtitled French). 
NICOLETTE When the king returns he will bury them in those new clothes. Scotland is in chaos. Your husband is secretly sending an army north. 
PRINCESS How do you know this? 
NICOLETTE Last night I slept with a member of the War Council. 
PRINCESS He shouldn't be telling secrets in bed. 
NICOLETTE Ah, Oui! Englishmen don't know what a tongue is for. 
The Princess blushes, whacks her with her fan, and smiles. 
Wallace reins his horse around to face the mob of sullen men, now frightened, ready to desert. We play this picture, Wallace sitting his horse, looking down in awe at this thing that has grown beyond anyone's imagination. 
He glances at his friends: Campbell, Hamish, Stephen. 
They've got no suggestions, they're just as awed as he is. 
SCOTTISH VETERAN We didn't come to fight for them! 
SHOUTS FROM MOB Home! The English are too many! 
Wallace raises his hand, and the army falls silent. 
WALLACE Sons of Scotland!... I am William Wallace! 
SOLDIER William Wallace is seven feet tall! 
WALLACE Yes, I have heard! He kills men by the hundreds! And if he were here, he would consume the English with fireballs from his eyes, and bolts of lightning from his ass! 
Many laugh -- all get the point. 
WALLACE I am William Wallace. And my enemies do not go away. I saw our good nobles hanged. My wife... I am William Wallace. And I see a whole army of my countrymen, here in defiance of tyranny. You have come to fight as free men. And free men you are! What will you do with freedom? Will you fight? 
VETERAN Two thousand, against ten? We will run -- and live! 
WALLACE Yes. Fight and you may die. Run and you will live, at least awhile. And dying in your bed many years from now, would you be willing to trade all the days from this day to that, for one chance to come back here as young men, and tell our enemies that they make take our lives, but they will never take our freedom? 
Down on the plain, English emissaries in all their regal finery gallop over the bridge, under a banner of truce. 
VETERAN Look! The English comes to barter with our nobles for castles and titles. And our nobles will not be in the front of the battle! 
WALLACE No! They will not! 
He dismounts, and draws his sword. 
WALLACE And I will. 
Slowly, the chant begins, and builds... 
SCOTS Wal-lace! Wal-lace! WAL-LACE! 
BAGPIPERS play, pulling the mob back into companies. But through the lifting mists they see the overwhelming enemy army. Hamish, Campbell and Stephen move up beside William. 
STEPHEN Fine speech. Now what do we do? 
WALLACE Bring out our spearmen and set them in the field. 
Campbell, Hamish and Stephen ride off. Mornay reins his horse over, lifts the reins of Wallace's horse, and extends them to him: an invitation to join the pre-battle talks. 
Wallace mounts up and rides out with the Scottish nobles to meet the English contingent. 
OUT ON THE FIELD, THE TWO GROUPS OF RIDERS 
meet like the captains of football teams before the kickoff. CHELTHAM, head of the English contingent, glares at Wallace. 
CHELTHAM Mornay. Lochlan. Inverness. 
MORNAY Cheltham. This is William Wallace 
CHELTHAM Here are the King's terms. Lead this army off the field, and he will give you each estates in Yorkshire, including hereditary title, from which you will pay him an annual -- 
WALLACE I have an offer for you. 
CHELTHAM ...From which you will pay the King an annual duty... 
Wallace pulls his broadsword and snaps it at Cheltham, whose eyes flash in disbelief at the bad manners. 
LOCHLAN You disrespect a banner of truce?! 
WALLACE From his king? Absolutely. Here are Scotland's terms. Lower your flags and march straight to England, stopping at every Scottish home you pass to beg forgiveness for a hundred years of theft, rape, and murder. Do that, and your men shall live. Do it not, and every one of you will die today. 
Cheltham barks at the Scottish nobles... 
CHELTHAM You are outmatched! You haven't even any cavalry! In two centuries no army has won without it! 
WALLACE I'm not finished. Before we let you leave, your commander must cross that bridge, stand before this army, put his head between his legs, and kiss his own ass. 
The outraged Englishman gallops back to his lines. 
MORNAY I'd say that was rather less cordial that he was used to. 
WALLACE Tell Mornay to ride to the flank and cross upstream. Wait! Tell him to be sure the English see him ride away! 
Hamish hurries off with the message. 
The English infantry keeps moving across the little bridge. 
The Scottish nobles watch from their positions on horseback. 
They have a few dozen mounted riders, none heavily armored. 
LOCHLAN If he waits much longer -- 
Hamish hurries up. 
HAMISH Ride around and ford behind them! 
MORNAY We should not divide our forces! 
HAMISH Wallace says do it! And he says for you to let the English see you! 
MORNAY (understanding) They shall think we run away. 
Mornay leads his riders away. 
LORD TALMADGE 
sees the Scottish nobles ride off, and shouts to Cheltham... 
TALMADGE See! Every Scot with a horse is fleeing! Hurry! Hurry! 
He drives half his army across the river. 
WALLACE 
lifts his sword. 
WALLACE For Scotland! 
He charges down the hill... 
THE FIGHT AT STIRLING BRIDGE - VARIOUS SHOTS 
The Scots follow Wallace on foot, charging into the English. 
The English leaders are stunned by the ferocious attack. 
TALMADGE Press reinforcements across! 
The English leaders try to herd more of their footsoldiers onto the bridge, which only hams them up. Meanwhile, on the other side of the bridge, Wallace and his charging men slam into the English infantry with wild fury. The English fall back on each other, further blocking the bridge. 
UP ON THE HILLTOP 
The nobles look back with grudging admiration. 
MORNAY He's taking the bloody bridge! The English can't get across! He's evened the odds at one stroke! 
With rising desire to join the bandwagon, the nobles spur... 
DOWN ON THE PLAIN, Wallace and the attacking men drive the English back, killing as they go. The Scots reach the bridge itself. The waters below it run red with blood. 
Talmadge has begun to panic. 
TALMADGE Use the archers! 
GENERAL They're too close, we'll shoot out own men! 
ON THE BRIDGE 
the Scots are carving their way through the English soldiers; nothing can stop them. Wallace is relentless; each time he swings, a head flies, or an arm. Hamish and Stephen fight beside him, swinging the broadsword with both hands. Old Campbell loses his shield in the grappling; an English swordsman whacks at him and takes off his left hand, but Campbell batters him to the ground with his right, and stabs him. Reaching the English side of the bridge, the Scots begin to build a barrier with the dead bodies. 
The English are not without courage. Cheltham leads a desperate counterattack. The Scots make an impenetrable barrier of slashing blades. Still Cheltham keeps coming; Wallace hits him with a vertical slash that parts his helmet, his hair, and his brain. 
TALMADGE has seen enough; he gallops away. The remaining English General tries to save the army. 
GENERAL We are still five thousand! Rally! 
The English try to form up; but the Scottish horsemen, fording the river high upstream, come crashing into the English flank and ride over the surprised English infantry. 
AT THE BRIDGE, WALLACE 
WALLACE LISTEN TO ME! Longshanks understands this! This! 
He brandishes the broadsword. 
WALLACE There is a difference between us. You think the people of this country exist to provide you with position. I think your position exists to provide the people with freedom. And I go to make sure they have it. 
Wallace bangs through the door. Suppressing smiles, his friends file out behind him. 
INT. EDINBURGH CORRIDOR - DAY 
Wallace and his men are marching away, as Robert the Bruce runs out after them. 
ROBERT Wait! ...I respect what you said. But remember, these men have lands, castles. Much to risk. 
WALLACE And the common man who bleeds on the battlefield, does he risk less? 
ROBERT No. But from top to bottom this country has no sense of itself. Its nobles share allegiance with England and its clans war with each other. If you make enemies on both sides of the border, you'll end up dead. 
WALLACE We all end up dead. It's only a question of how. And why. 
Wallace walks; Robert catches up and speaks to him in an urgent half whisper, so that no one else can hear. 
ROBERT I'm no coward! I want what you want! But we need the nobles. 
WALLACE Nobles? What does that mean -- to be noble? Your title gives you claim to the throne of our country. But men don't follow titles, they follow courage! Your arm speaks louder than your tongue. Our people know you. Noble and common, they respect you. If you would lead them toward freedom, they would follow you. And so would I. 
Wallace walks away, leaving Robert the Bruce alone. 
THE SCOTTISH ARMY - DAY 
Wallace rides at the head of his army, moving through the countryside of northern England. It is autumn, the foliage is beautiful, the wheat fields gold with harvest. 
EXT. ESTABLISHING YORK CITY - DAY 
A medieval city guarded by a fortress. 
INT. THE FORTRESS - MAP ROOM - DAY 
The ROYAL GOVERNOR is a spoiled young man, Longshanks' nephew. He is studying maps and written appeals for help; his CAPTAIN of defenses strides in with another note. 
CAPTAIN Message from your cousin, the Prince. He says London has no more troops to send. 
GOVERNOR Every town in Northern England is begging for help! Where will Wallace strike first? 
CAPTAIN I should think these smaller settlements along the border... 
They hear shouts as a rider arrives and dismounts. They look out to see a panicked RIDER, who shouts up... 
RIDER He advances! 
GOVERNOR To what town? 
RIDER He comes here! 
SMASH TO: 
CARTS, RUMBLING IN PANIC DOWN A ROAD 
as civilians flee the walled city in the distance. 
THE SCOTTISH ARMY 
has cut a huge tree and placed it on wheels. It rumbles ominously TOWARD CAMERA... 
THE CIVILIAN PANIC CONTINUES as more people join the swell of those leaving York. 
THE SCOTTISH ARMY keeps coming on. 
INSIDE THE WALLS OF THE CITY - DAY 
The governor is furious and confused. 
GOVERNOR We will not allow a bandit to panic the greatest city in Northern England! Close off the escapes! Let no one leave! 
CAPTAIN The city has emptied already, Sire. Only the Scottish civilians remain. 
The Governor turns to his captain with a look worthy of his uncle, Longshanks the King. 
ON THE BATTERING RAM 
Then Longshanks unleashes his own hateful fury; he grapples with Edward, knocking the dagger away and hurling him to the floor; then Longshanks kicks his son, again and again. He exhausts his fury on him. 
Edward is a bloody mess; Longshanks coughs up a bit of blood. 
He ignores it and his son's wreckage, and goes back to the discussion, as if this fight was normal business. 
LONGSHANKS We must sue for a truce, and buy him off. But who will go to him? Not I. If I came under the sword of this murderer, I would end up like my nephew. And not you, the sight of my faggot son would only encourage an enemy to take over this country. So whom do I send? 
Longshanks calculates. 
EXT. WALLACE ARMY CAMP - DAY 
A full encampment, across an English field; campfires chase the dawn chill. Soldiers sharpen swords and spear points. 
Wallace is huddled with his inner circle, all except Campbell, who receives a report from a scout. 
CAMPBELL A royal entourage comes, flying banners of truce, and the standards of Longshanks himself! 
Wallace buckles on his sword. 
AN ENGLISH PAVILION TENT - YORKSHIRE - DAY 
Set up for a meeting in a sunny meadow. Wallace and his men ride in, wary, ready for ambush. They surround the tent. 
There are two dozen royal soldiers there, but they make no threatening moves. 
No sound from the tent. Wallace rests his hand on the handle of his broadsword, ready. 
WALLACE Longshanks! I have come. 
Servants pull back the sides of the tent door, and a tall, slender, shapely female figure appears there. There in the shadows, she looks just like Marion! William is not the only one who notices the resemblance; he glances at Hamish and Campbell and sees them haunted by it too. Is this another dream? He pales, as she steps into the morning sun. She moves toward him, her face lowered. It is Marion! 
She reaches him, lifts her face... and he sees the Princess! 
William is relieved -- and yet as he sees the Princess more closely he is still shaken by the resemblance in the way she carries herself, her shape, the fall of her hair. 
The Princess is struck with Wallace, too -- tall, powerful, and commanding. Wallace dismounts, and moves to face her. 
Their eyes hang on each other. She sees something that she has not seen in the face of a man in her whole life. 
She surprises him by bending at the knee, in a half-submissive yet proud curtsey. 
PRINCESS I am the Princess of Wales. 
WALLACE Wife of Edward, the king's son? 
She nods; somehow she is already ashamed. 
PRINCESS I come as the king's servant, and with his authority. 
WALLACE It's battle I want, not talk. 
PRINCESS But now that I am here, will you speak with a woman? 
She leads him under the pavilion, a purple canopy shading rich carpets laid on the bare ground. Watching the gorgeous walk, Stephen lies back on his saddle and twitches his leg like a horny dog. Hamish backhands him; Campbell, Hamish and Stephen quickly dismount and follow the procession, shouldering their way in beside the Princess's French guards, so they can watch Wallace's back. The rest of the Scots surround the tent, ready for ambush. 
Nicolette is among the royal attendants there; seeing Wallace, she shoots a glance at the Princess that says Ooo-La-La! The servants have brought a throne for the Princess, a lower chair for Wallace. She sits; he refuses the chair. 
She studies him, taking in his anger and his pride. 
PRINCESS I understand that you have recently been given the rank of knight. 
WALLACE I have been given nothing. God makes men what they are. 
PRINCESS Did God make you the sacker of peaceful cities? The executioner of the king's nephew, my husband's own cousin? 
WALLACE York was the staging point for every invasion of my country. And that royal cousin hanged a hundred Scots, even women and children, from the city walls. 
PRINCESS That is not possible. 
But knowing Longshanks' family, she glances at a richly dressed Advisor, a CRONY of the king, who averts his eyes. 
WALLACE Longshanks did far worse, the last time he took a Scottish city. 
The Crony mumbles to her in LATIN, WITH SUBTITLES... 
CRONY (Latin) He is a murdering bandit, he lies. 
WALLACE (Latin!) I am no bandit. And I do not lie. 
PRINCESS Forgive me, Sire. I thought that generosity might demonstrate your greatness to those you mean to rule. 
LONGSHANKS My greatness is better demonstrated with this. 
From a box at his feet the king withdraws a crossbow and throws it onto the table. Most of those there are shocked. 
EDWARD The weapon has been outlawed by the Pope himself! 
LONGSHANKS So the Scots will have none of them, will they? My armorers have already made a thousand. 
Longshanks smiles. No one notices that the Princess is deadly pale. 
EXT. WALLACE ARMY CAMP - DAY 
The Scots are lining up to leave their encampment. Wallace is about to give the signal to start the march when Hamish, beside him, comes alert; a small group of riders in distinctive attire are coming toward them; what can this be? 
HAMISH William -- French guards? 
The riders stop at a distance, and out from their ranks comes a single rider, sitting sidesaddle. It is Nicolette. 
Wallace and Hamish recognize her from the Princess's visit. 
She trots her horse the rest of the way, while the French guards stay back. Hamish helps her from her horse. She moves to Wallace, and opens the heavy folds of her heavy riding cape. 
Secreted there, hung from a rope at her neck, is a crossbow. 
EXT. A FIELD IN SCOTLAND - DAY 
Wallace has gathered the nobles, among them Robert the Bruce, Mornay, and old Craig, for a demonstration. Hamish and Stephen have placed a spearman's chestplate against a bale of hay. As William cranks the crossbow to its full cocked position and places a bolt in its slot, Stephen tucks a melon behind the armor. 
William aims... and fires. The bolt slashes through the air and punches through the armor and the melon, leaving no doubt what it would do to a man's heart. The nobles pale. 
CRAIG That is why the Pope outlawed the weapon! It makes war too terrible. 
MORNAY How many does Longshanks have? 
WALLACE A thousand. (beat) You have made me Guardian of Scotland. So I tell you this is what we face. 
CRAIG We must sue for peace. 
WALLACE Peace?! 
CRAIG We cannot defeat this -- 
WALLACE With cavalry -- not heavy, like the English, but light, fast horsemen, like you nobles employ -- we could outmaneuver their bowmen! 
CRAIG It is suicide. 
ROBERT Sir William -- 
The Bruce sees Wallace about to explode, and tries to intervene -- but Wallace's anger is too great. 
WALLACE We won at Stirling and still you quibbled! We won at York and you would not support us! Then I said nothing! Now I say you are cowards! 
The nobles grip their weapons; Wallace, Hamish and Stephen are ready to finish this quarrel right here. Robert the Bruce, backed by Mornay, steps between the two sides. 
ROBERT Please, Sir William! Speak with me alone! I beg you! 
The nobles stalk away, and Robert draws Wallace away, to the target Wallace shot, so they are alone. 
ROBERT You have achieved more than anyone dreamed. But fighting these odds looks like rage, not courage. Peace offers its rewards! Has war become a habit you cannot break? 
The question strikes deep. 
WALLACE War finds me willing. I know it won't bring back all I have lost. But it can bring what none of us have ever had -- a country of our own. For that we need a king. We need you. 
ROBERT I am trying. 
WALLACE Then tell me what a king is! Is he a man who believes only what others believe? Is he one who calculates the numbers for and against him but never weighs the strength in your own heart? There is strength in you. I see it. I know it. 
ROBERT I must... consult with my father. 
WALLACE And I will consult with mine. 
Robert the Bruce walks off the field, heading the way the other nobles went. Wallace rejoins Hamish and Stephen. They look to him; what do we do now? 
WALLACE Remember when the English turned their hounds on us? Maybe we should introduce them to our dogs. 
INT. THE DARKENED ROOM OF BRUCE THE ELDER, THE LEPER 
WALLACE, WITH STEPHEN 
They see the Scottish army abandoned. 
STEPHEN Betrayed! 
Wallace glances to the other hilltop; still no sign of Bruce. 
He looks on in agony as the crossbowmen unleash another volley. The Scottish spearmen, bunched in a tight group, are helpless. The bolts fall, cutting through their helmets and breastplates like paper. Wallace has no cavalry -- and his men are being slaughtered! He spurs his horse, and Stephen and the infantrymen race behind him. 
The English heavy cavalry surge to meet them, but Wallace weaves through them, dodging with his horse, slashing with the broadsword, cutting down on knight, another, another... 
The Scottish infantry claws in, dragging down the horses, hacking the knights as they run by. 
The English bowmen are about to fire again, but they see the Scottish charge bearing down on them and adjust their aim; the bolts cut into the infantrymen; one bolt tears off the armor of Wallace's left shoulder. He wobbles on his horse, regains his balance, and keeps up the charge. 
AT THE ENGLISH COMMAND 
Longshanks and his generals are watching the action. 
GENERAL My God, and still they come! 
LONGSHANKS Use the reinforcements! But take Wallace alive! 
The General signals and the English reinforcements surge into the battle. 
IN THE THICK OF THE BATTLE 
On horseback, Wallace fights his way into the watery edge of the field, where English infantry is now overrunning the schiltron. He hacks men down left and right, reaches the Scottish center, and finds Hamish bending over another soldier. Wallace dismounts. 
WALLACE Hamish! Ham -- 
And Wallace sees that Hamish is holding his father, fallen in battle. Wallace has no time to react; he cuts down and English swordsman moving in to hack Hamish's back. Wallace lifts Campbell across the saddle, and shouts at Hamish... 
WALLACE Get him away! 
Hamish obeys, jumping onto the horse and galloping back toward the rear. Wallace fights with new vengeance, swinging the double-edged broadsword with deadly accuracy. 
Rallied by Wallace's presence, the Scots surge back. Then Wallace sees the English reinforcement cavalry coming. 
WALLACE A charge! Form up! Form up! 
The Scots pull up spears and hastily form another schiltron. 
The spears bristle out, ready... the English horsemen thunder in. But before the spears impale the horses, another flight of crossbow bolts cuts down half the Scots still fighting. 
Hamish reaches the rear of the battle and lowers the limp body of his father to the Scottish monks who are attending to the wounded and giving absolution to the dying... 
Still Wallace fights back, meeting the English charge. The Scots hold their own. An English knight tries to ride over William; he knocks the lance aside, and tough the horse slams into him, William also unseats the rider. 
The rider rolls to his feet. William struggles up to meet him -- and comes face to face with Robert the Bruce. 
The shock and recognition stun Wallace; in that moment, looking at Robert the Bruce's guilt-ridden face, he understands everything: the betrayal, the hopelessness of Scotland. As he stands there frozen, a bolt punches into the muscle of his neck, and Wallace doesn't react to it. 
Bruce is horrified at the sight of Wallace this way. He batters at Wallace's sword, as if its use would give him absolution. 
ROBERT Fight me! Fight me! 
But Wallace can only stagger back. Bruce's voice grows ragged as he screams. 
ROBERT FIGHT ME! 
All around, the battle has decayed; the Scots are being slaughtered. Another bolt glances off Wallace's helmet; a third rips into his thigh plate, making his legs collapse. 
Suddenly Stephen comes through the melee, on Robert's horse! 
He hits Robert from behind, knocking him down, and jumps to the ground to try and lift William onto the horse! 
Robert sees a knot of crossbowmen moving up, sighting out Wallace, taking careful aim! Bruce leaps up and helps Stephen sling Wallace onto the back of the horse, even covers him with his shield, deflecting another bolt fired at Wallace, as Stephen mounts too. 
As the horse plunges away into the smoke, Robert falls to the water. His own troops reach him, realize who he is, see the horrible expression on his face, and race on after the Scots. 
Robert is left alone, on his knees in the water, the fire and noise of battle now dim to him, as if his senses have died along with his heart. 
LONGSHANKS 
Looks over the battlefield, strewn with the bodies of the Scottish dead. For now, he is satisfied. 
EXT. ROAD - SUNSET 
Mornay, in an opulent bedchamber hung with tapestries and carpeted with eastern rugs, lies in bed, tossing in the restless sleep of a tortured soul. 
He thinks he hears galloping. In SUBLIMINAL FLASHES he DREAMS of Wallace riding toward him. 
He wakes, and listens to a strange noise. It is hoofbeats! 
Coming closer. He hears shouts too, screams from below -- and those strange, approaching hoofbeats... 
WALLACE, ON HORSEBACK 
rides up the circular stairs inside Mornay's castle! His horse bounds up the stone -- Mornay's guards are behind him, on foot, pursuing. 
At a landing, Wallace cuts down a guard, and gallops higher. 
IN HIS BED, MORNAY 
sits up gawking as the door explodes inward and Wallace rides through! Mornay is frozen. Wallace slashes him down. 
Out in the corridor, the guards gather; they have Wallace trapped. He covers the horse's eyes with a cloth and spurs his flanks. The blind animal runs through the window! 
EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT - SLOW MOTION 
The horse and rider plunge past the sheer walls of the castle... and into the loch! Mornay's guards and the castle servants cluster at the windows to see Wallace and the horse surface, and swim to the shore, escaping! 
EXT. SCOTTISH VILLAGE - DAY 
The news has spread through the countryside. In the town square, drunken Scotsmen chant... 
PEOPLE Wal-lace! Wal-lace! Wal-lace! 
Old Craig rides past them, heading toward the Bruce's castle on the hill above the town. 
INT. BRUCE CASTLE - DAY 
Robert is in his central room; he hears the chanting from far below. Old Craig enters. 
ROBERT Is it true about Mornay? 
Craig hands him the bloody nightshirt Mornay was wearing. 
ROBERT And he rode through the window? My God. 
He can't hide his admiration. From below, he still hears the people CHANTING... 
EXT. LONDON - GARDENS - DAY 
Longshanks and Edward are in the royal gardens, resplendent with spring. Longshanks pulls a new flower, and crushes it. 
LONGSHANKS His legend grows! It will be worse than before! 
EDWARD You let Wallace escape your whole army. You cannot blame me for this. 
Longshanks glowers at his son; the Princess arrives. 
PRINCESS Good day to you, M'Lords. 
EDWARD You mock us with a smile? 
PRINCESS I am cheerful with a plan to soothe your miseries. All of England shudders with the news of renewed rebellion. 
EDWARD Wallace's followers. 
PRINCESS Wallace himself. If you wish to pretend a ghost rallies new volunteers in every Scottish town, I leave you to your hauntings. If you wish to take him, I know a way. 
Edward snickers in derision -- but his wife is steel. 
PRINCESS I have faced him. Have you? 
LONGSHANKS Let her speak. 
PRINCESS He will fight you forever. But what does he fight for? Freedom first, and peace. So grant them. 
EDWARD The little cow is insane -- 
PRINCESS Grant, as you do everything else, with treachery. Offer him a truce to discuss terms, and send me to my castle at Locharmbie as your emissary. He trusts me. Pick thirty of your finest assassins for me to take along. And I will set the meeting, and the ambush. 
LONGSHANKS You see, my delicate son? I have picked you a Queen. 
EXT. THE PRINCESS' SCOTTISH CASTLE - DAY 
She wants to say something -- but instead she says something else. 
PRINCESS There will be a new shipment of supplies coming north next month. Food and weapons. They will trav -- 
WILLIAM No. Stop. I didn't come here for that. 
PRINCESS Then why did you come? 
WALLACE Why did you? 
PRINCESS Because of the way you're looking at me now. The same way... as when we met. 
He turns his face away. Gently, she pulls it back. 
PRINCESS I know. You looked at me... and saw her. 
He twists back toward the window. 
PRINCESS You must forgive me what I feel. No man has ever looked at me as you did. 
Surprised, he looks at her now. 
WALLACE You have... you have a husband. 
PRINCESS I have taken vows. More than one. I've vowed faithfulness to my husband, and sworn to give him a son. And I cannot keep both promises. 
Slowly, it starts to dawn on him what she's asking, and an unexpected smile plays at his lips. Her smile lights too. 
PRINCESS You understand. Consider, before you laugh and say no. You will never own a throne, though you deserve one. But just as the sun will rise tomorrow, some man will rule England. And what if his veins ran not with the blood of Longshanks, but with that of a true king? 
WALLACE I cannot love you for the sake of revenge. 
PRINCESS No. But can you love me for the sake of all you loved and lost? Or simply love me... because I love you? 
Slowly, he reaches to the candle flame, and pinches it out. 
IN THE SHADOWS OF THE COTTAGE BED 
we see the surging, pent-up passion... and 
DISSOLVE TO: 
THE LOVERS 
Their bodies limp, they lie asleep, entwined. The first rays of morning spread yellow light through the room and across their faces. 
Wallace wakes suddenly; sunlight! He grabs for his clothes, as she wakes, covers herself in the blanket and jumps out of bed, rushing to the window to look out. 
PRINCESS No one! Hurry! 
He reaches her, throws the window open, and sees a clear path down the wall to safety. He stops and looks at her, and touches her face in gratitude. She has to ask... 
PRINCESS When we... did you think of her? 
Pausing to look straight into her eyes, he kisses her -- her, not Marion -- and climbs out. She watches him go. 
EXT. GROVE OF TREES - NIGHT 
Wallace stands alone in the grove where Marion lies. 
MONTAGE 
-- Wallace and fifty men gallop through a village on the way to an English fortress; the villagers drop what they're doing and run to follow them; we see Wallace's face, relentless, as he hacks men down in the attack; with the fortress sacked and smoking in the background, we see Wallace lead his men away, the people cheering him... 
EXT. FOREST ENCAMPMENT - NIGHT 
Once again, Wallace stares at the fire, beside his friends. 
HAMISH Rest, William. 
WALLACE I rest. 
HAMISH Your rest is making me exhausted. 
Stephen offers the jug; Wallace declines. 
STEPHEN Come, it'll help you sleep. 
WALLACE Aye. But it won't let me dream. 
