BREAKDOWN by 
Jonathan Mostow 
March 1996 
Revised First Draft 
FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY 
FADE IN: 
EXTREMELY TIGHT ON ELECTRONIC GUTS 
of a video camera. The screwdriver blade of a Swiss Army knife ENTERS FRAME, methodically tightening a row of screws. 
PULL BACK to reveal: 
EXT. BOMBARDED NEIGHBORHOOD (WAR-TORN COUNTRY) - DAY 
On the backslope of a mound of rubble, a three-man TV crew (field producer, reporter, and cameraman, all wearing flak jackets) waits while the cameraman, JEFFREY TAYLOR, works to repair his malfunctioning minicam. 
Throughout this sequence, ROD, the reporter, types on a laptop computer, oblivious to what is happening around him. 
HOWARD, the field producer, lies on his stomach, peering cautiously over the crest of the rubble through binoculars. 
Beyond him we see an empty street. It is lined with buildings blasted by shells: a sawtooth wall in the f.g., a ruined high-rise at the end of the street, billboards in an unrecognizable foreign language. 
HOWARD How about it, Jeff? 
Jeff finishes his repair job, snaps the minicam closed. 
JEFF Done. 
Jeff slips the knife back in his pocket, scrambles over the loose bricks and stones to a position next to Howard. 
EXT. SAWTOOTH WALL - DAY 
A frightened woman lurks nervously in the shelter of the wall. She is young, in her early twenties, with shining dark hair down to her shoulders. She's carrying an armload of books. 
EXT. MOUND OF RUBBLE - DAY 
Jeff focuses the minicam. 
MINICAM POV 
FRAMED in the viewfinder we see the frightened woman. 
HOWARD (O.S.) Nice legs. 
Jeff ignores Howard, PANS the minicam DOWN the street. In the viewfinder we see the flash of sun on metal. 
EXT. RUINED HIGH-RISE - DAY 
A row of blasted windows. In one of the windows, a sniper crouches. Sunlight glitters on his rifle barrel. 
EXT. MOUND OF RUBBLE 
JEFF (matter-of-fact) Sniper. 
HOWARD Where? 
JEFF High-rise. Top floor.        Window in the middle. 
HOWARD (looking through his binoculars) Stay on him. Stay on him.        Now go back to the woman. Now! 
Jeff swings the minicam and -- 
EXT. SAWTOOTH WALL - MINICAM POV 
-- the image blurs, then holds steady on the frightened woman. Nervously, she peeks around the corner. 
HOWARD (O.S.) Back to the sniper. 
EXT. MOUND OF RUBBLE 
HOWARD Stay tight on the sniper. Jesus -- look at him! He's about fourteen! Don't lose this! 
Jeff kneels on the ridge, minicam on his shoulder. 
EXT. RUINED HIGH-RISE - POV THROUGH VIEWFINDER 
Jeff's minicam ZOOMS IN ON the sniper. The sniper sees the woman peeking and gets his rifle in firing position. 
JEFF He sees her. 
EXT. MOUND OF RUBBLE 
HOWARD Stay on her. If she runs, widen and try to get her and sniper in the same frame. 
Jeff turns his head away from the camera and stares at Howard. 
JEFF I said he sees her. 
HOWARD I heard you.    Stay on her. 
Jeff looks to Rod for support but he's busy typing, oblivious. 
Jeff hesitates, then lifts the minicam to his eye again. 
Something catches her attention from across the room. She rises, pulls a loose robe around herself and pads over to a closed door. She knocks softly. 
AMY Can I come in? 
JEFF (O.S.) Sure. 
INT. DARKROOM - NIGHT 
A walk-in closet has been converted into a small photographic darkroom. Moist 8 X 10 prints hang from a clothesline, bathed in a warm red glow. The images are moody black and white landscapes. 
Jeff stands over the developer, timing a print. Amy enters through a thick black curtain behind him. He doesn't look up. 
AMY Couldn't sleep? 
Jeff shakes his head. Amy looks over his shoulder at a landscape photograph in the developing tray. 
AMY I remember when you took that. We had fun on that trip, didn't we? 
Jeff nods.    Amy looks at him.     After a beat: 
AMY You want to talk about it? 
JEFF There's nothing to talk about. 
AMY C'mon, Jeff. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF I told you. I quit.   Walked out. end of story. 
AMY That's   it? 
Jeff nods. 
AMY Whatever happened back there wasn't your responsibility. You can't keep beating yourself up over it. 
He says nothing. 
AMY What do you think? You could have stopped that girl from getting killed? 
JEFF You don't understand... 
He stops, lifts his eyes. 
JEFF It was different this time. 
He breaks off and pushes through the curtain.    She watches him go. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM - KITCHEN AREA - NIGHT 
Jeff pours himself a glass of milk. Amy enters, stands on the other side of the counter. Jeff doesn't meet her eyes. After a beat: 
JEFF I talked to Reynolds. (a beat) He thinks I could still get the job at the San Diego station. 
AMY Oh, Jeff, you didn't... 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF Think of it. Low pressure, a steady paycheck. So I shoot city council meetings -- how bad could it be? 
She looks at him, concerned. 
AMY Is that what you really want -- or are you just running away? 
JEFF Who's running? It's good money, full benefits. I'm tired of freelance. We could finally put some money in the bank. 
AMY You know I'll never stand in your way. But you've worked so hard. Are you sure you want to throw it away? 
JEFF Throw what away? Don't you get it? I don't do anything. I sit, I watch, I film -- I let it happen. 
AMY You're supposed to let it happen. It's your job. 
JEFF No, Amy.   It's my excuse. 
She looks at him, not understanding.       He hesitates. 
JEFF That girl... it's like I was paralyzed. I wanted to do something, but I didn't. I just stood there and watched her get killed. 
He looks at her, emotional. 
JEFF Please, babe, I need this.     Say yes and we'll take as long    as you want -- drive cross-country    and make a vacation out of it.     What do you say? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Amy looks at him, considering. We hear a faint RUSH OF WIND. Then it gets LOUDER... LOUDER... and -- 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CREDIT MONTAGE - VARIOUS LOCATIONS - LOW ANGLE - DAY AND NIGHT 
The metallic grill of the Cherokee explodes INTO FRAME as the car whooshes over us, hurtling down the Massachusetts Turnpike. 
TRUCKER Okay, then. Good luck.   Enjoy the rest of your trip. 
EXT. GAS STATION - DAY 
As Jeff continues pouring the oil, he doesn't notice the mud-streaked Dodge Ram pickup pulling up to the pumps behind him. The driver, EARL, climbs out. The other man remains in the cab with the smoked windows rolled up. 
Earl is a beefy man about Jeff's age. He wears a sweat- stained Western hat, cowboy boots and a T-shirt with the sleeves cut out to display his tattooed biceps. He saunters over to the Cherokee, stands there a beat, looking over Jeff's shoulder. 
Jeff senses something behind him, turns. His eyes widen as he sees Earl, recognizes the pickup as the one he nearly hit a few minutes before. Earl stares at him, unsmiling. 
EARL (flatly) Nice car. 
Jeff is in an awkward position. He's got a half-full upside-down bottle of oil in his hands. If he lifts it now, he'll spill on the engine. He turns his gaze back to the engine, decides to keep pouring. 
JEFF Thanks. 
Earl steps around to the open passenger window, peers in. Jeff watches him, wary. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
EARL Air, C.D., leather -- I guess you sprung for the whole nine yards. 
JEFF I guess. 
EARL Then again, out here, what you really need's a C.B. radio. 
JEFF Is that right? 
The oil bottle empties    out. Relieved, Jeff pulls it away and screws back on the    crankcase cap. He shuts the hood with a thunk and moves    around to the side of the car to remove the gas nozzle    from the tank. Earl blocks his path. 
EARL 'Course, if you use a C.B., you gotta have a handle. 
Jeff says nothing.      This is not a friendly conversation. 
EARL How about Shit-for-Brains? (beat) You damn near killed us back there, boy. 
JEFF Look, I'm sorry, I didn't see you. You pulled out in front of me. 
EARL The hell I did. I saw what happened. 
Looking past Earl, Jeff sees Amy come out of the mini- mart with a bag of groceries. He speaks carefully, anxious to avoid a confrontation. 
JEFF How about if we just forget it, okay? I'm sorry it happened. I don't want any trouble. 
EARL (snorting) Yeah.     I bet you don't. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Earl glares at Jeff before turning away.    He passes Amy, gives her a broad smile. 
EARL Howdy, ma'am. Caught this fellow tryin' to steal your Cherokee. 
Amy takes in the situation. She nods politely. Earl continues into the mini-mart. She approaches Jeff, puzzled. 
AMY What was that about? 
JEFF Nothing. Guy in the truck. Thinks I tried to hit him. 
Jeff glances apprehensively at the man in the pickup, who has not moved during the scene. He looks back at the mini-mart. 
JEFF C'mon, let's go. 
AMY You want me to drive? 
JEFF Later.   Just get in. 
AMY Is something wrong? 
JEFF No, let's just go. 
Jeff climbs in behind the wheel. Amy glances at him and gets in the car. Jeff keys the IGNITION and pulls away. 
INT. CHEROKEE - DRIVING - DAY 
As Jeff steers back onto the highway, he glances in the rear-view mirror, sees -- 
MIRROR POV 
Earl coming out of the mini-mart, staring after the disappearing Jeep. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Jeff shifts in his seat, relieved to be getting away from there. Amy watches the speedometer as it climbs to 75, then 80, then 85. 
AMY This isn't the Grand Prix, you know. 
Jeff releases his foot from the accelerator.     The needle sinks back down to 65. 
She gives him a long contemplative look. 
AMY What's bothering you? 
JEFF I told you. Nothing. (pause) The guy was an asshole. 
He goes to the passenger's side and takes a hand-held cellular phone from the glove box. He dials zero and hits "send." The PHONE BEEPS. 
AMY Out of range? 
Jeff grunts, tosses the phone on the seat. It bounces and lands on the floor. Amy watches as he returns to the engine and begins unscrewing the radiator cap. 
AMY What's going on, Jeff? 
JEFF What's it look like?      I'm trying to fix the car. 
AMY Not the car. 
JEFF What? 
AMY What's going on with you? 
Jeff busies himself with the engine, not answering. 
AMY It's been a month since you got back. You can't keep shutting me out like this. 
Jeff says nothing. 
AMY Jeff, I'm talking to you. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF (flaring) Look, I really don't want to go into this right now. I'm changing jobs, our finances are fucked, and we're stuck in the middle of nowhere. So could we maybe just fix the -- 
He stops in mid-sentence. There is a RUMBLE in the distance. They look down the road. 
JEFF Christ, not these guys... 
JEFF'S POV - DODGE RAM PICKUP 
approaching fast on the road. As it streaks past, Earl yells and launches a beer bottle from the window. The BOTTLE SHATTERS on the asphalt. 
BACK TO JEFF 
watching the Ram speed away. 
JEFF Asshole... 
AMY (looking down the road) Jeff -- 
A quarter-mile away, the pickup is slowing. It pulls a U-turn and stops, facing the Cherokee. It just sits there, ENGINE IDLING. 
JEFF What the hell? 
AMY What's he doing? 
JEFF I don't know. 
Jeff watches the pickup, frowning. Then, from the opposite direction, they hear a LOW RUMBLE. They turn and stare at -- 
MASSIVE TRACTOR-TRAILER 
coming over a crest in the road. 
It's a huge eighteen-wheeler. A white 1988 Peterbilt. It grinds into low gear and slows, BRAKES CREAKING. 
The TRUCK comes to a halt with a HISS of compressed air. 
DOWN HIGHWAY 
the PICKUP STARTS UP again. It pulls another U-turn and drives away, melting into the desert. 
AMY 
breathes a sigh of relief. 
The driver dismounts from the cab, leaving the ENGINE IDLING. We recognize him as the Trucker in the mini- mart. He removes his cap, revealing a shock of prematurely white hair. He is well-shaven, his clothes immaculate. His name is Red. 
RED (TRUCKER) You folks all right? 
JEFF Yeah.   Our car broke down. 
RED (chuckling) I figured that much. You want a hand pushing it off the road? 
JEFF Thanks, I'd appreciate it.    Amy, you want to steer? 
Amy gets behind the wheel and puts the shift in neutral. Jeff and Red push the car to the shoulder. As they push, Jeff glances at the CB antenna on Red's cab. 
JEFF Think you could radio a tow truck for us? 
RED I sure would if I could, mister, but my C.B. blew a fuse this morning. I'm waiting till I hit the truck stop on I-40 to get it fixed. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF How far is that? 
RED About 60 miles. 
JEFF (disappointed) Oh. 
Red walks around to the front of the car and peers down at the exposed engine. 
Jeff drives, a determined expression. 
EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - DAY 
The Jeep blows past. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. BELLE'S DINER - DAY 
A weather-beaten structure with a gravel parking lot.     A peeling sign on the roof: "Belle's: Beer & Food." There is a phone booth outside. 
The Cherokee pulls in and parks.      Jeff CHIRPS the ALARM, heads for the entrance. 
INT. BELLE'S - DAY 
Dark and dingy. Formica tables, a bar. Chunky customers in K-Mart clothes sit at the bar, nursing beers and watching a football game on a big MUTED TV. 
Jeff enters and all conversation stops. The other patrons turn and stare. After a moment, they return to their beers. 
Jeff glances around.   No sign of Amy.   No sign of Red. 
A bored-looking BARTENDER stands behind the counter, preparing a sandwich. Behind him, a blackboard menu. Jeff approaches. 
JEFF Excuse me. 
The Bartender looks up, a cutting knife in his hand. 
JEFF I was supposed to meet my wife here. 
The Bartender shrugs, gives him a look:    Yeah, so? 
JEFF Dark hair, slender, about five- five. Wearing a pale blue Benetton shirt. 
BARTENDER A pale blue what? 
JEFF Benetton shirt. 
The Bartender plops the sandwich on a plate, tears off an order slip. 
BARTENDER Hank!  Your order's ready. (to Jeff) I been busy. They come and go. 
JEFF It would've been within the last half hour. She might've been with a trucker? 
BARTENDER A trucker. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF Guy with a baseball cap.   Driving an eighteen wheeler. 
The Bartender thinks a moment, shakes his head. 
BARTENDER Don't ring a bell. 
JEFF You sure? 
The Bartender leans over the counter, calls out: 
BARTENDER Hey! Man here's looking for his wife, dark hair, button-on shirt, travelin' with a guy in a baseball cap. Anybody see 'em? 
Jeff looks up and down the counter. Blank faces, a few disinterested shrugs, a few headshakes no. 
A disheveled female barfly, FLO, grins up at him. 
FLO Looks like she got away from ya, cowboy. 
A few of the regulars chuckle at this.     Jeff ignores them, turns back to the Bartender. 
JEFF Could she have left a message with another one of your employees? 
BARTENDER Don't see how. I'm the only one who works here. 
Jeff scratches his head.    This doesn't make any sense. 
JEFF I don't understand. Is there another Belle's Diner? 
BARTENDER (chuckles) No siree. Definitely not. 
Jeff clenches his jaw, takes another look around.      An elderly couple sit at a rear table, watching him.      They whisper to each other. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF (under his breath) Shit. 
He turns and goes outside... 
EXT. BELLE'S - DAY 
Jeff squints in the bright sunlight. 
Maybe he got this place confused with a different diner. He peers up at the sign. It says "Belle's," all right. 
He walks to the phone booth, looks inside.   The phone book is missing. 
He picks up the receiver, listens for the dial tone... Phone works okay. He hangs up. 
(NOTE: Throughout this scene, various cars and trucks pass in either direction.) 
RED Jesus, pal, what the hell you doing? 
JEFF I was signaling you to stop. Didn't you see me? 
RED No. 
Jeff reacts.    How thick can this guy be? 
JEFF Where's my wife? 
RED Huh? 
JEFF My wife.     Where is she? 
Red gives him a puzzled look. 
RED How should I know where your wife is? 
JEFF I checked at the diner.      No one saw her there. 
RED Mister, I don't know what you're talking about. 
Jeff stares -- is this guy nuts? 
JEFF You gave her a ride. You were supposed to drop her at Belle's diner. 
Red searches his memory, trying to be as helpful as possible. He shakes his head. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
RED Nope.   Sorry. 
JEFF How can you not remember? It was just half an hour ago, for chrissakes! 
Red gives him a peculiar look. 
RED Mister, I never seen you before in my life. 
Suddenly, there is a loud SQUAWK from inside the cab -- the CB RADIO. 
CB VOICE (V.O.) (filtered) Breaker, breaker -- Iron Man, you copy? 
JEFF (reacts) Your radio works -- (locks eyes with Red) What the hell are you doing -- ? 
Jeff freaks out, circling the truck, calling loudly: 
JEFF Amy?    Amy?!   You in there? 
Red shrinks back, unnerved. 
RED Look, mister, I don't know what you want, but -- 
JEFF I want my fucking wife, is what I want! What have you done to her?! 
Red's eyes dart to something in the distance.        Jeff catches this, turns... 
SHERIFF'S PATROL CAR 
Cruising toward them. 
Jeff runs into the middle of the road and waves frantically. The patrol car switches on its flash bar and speeds up, pulling to a stop behind the Peterbilt. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
SHERIFF BOYD, 50ish, climbs out, sizing up the situation. Jeff runs over. 
JEFF Officer, I need your help! 
SHERIFF BOYD What's your problem? 
JEFF I don't know, this guy has my wife! 
SHERIFF BOYD Calm down, sir. Tell me what's going on. 
Jeff catches his breath. 
JEFF I don't know what the hell's going on. Last time I saw her she was with this guy in his truck. Now he's saying he's never seen her! 
RED Officer, he's crazy -- I don't know what he's talking about. 
JEFF Don't lie, you son of a bitch! 
The Sheriff unsnaps the safety strap on his holster... just a precaution. 
SHERIFF BOYD All right -- everybody just calm down. (to Jeff) Sir, you want to tell me what happened? 
JEFF Our car broke down. This guy stopped to help us, said he'd drive my wife to a pay phone.    But she never showed up. 
SHERIFF BOYD (turning to Red) Sir? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Sheriff Boyd looks up sternly as Jeff continues searching the cab. Red watches calmly. 
SHERIFF BOYD Mr. Taylor, either you come down from there or I'm going to have to arrest you. 
Jeff gives up reluctantly. He looks lame and desperate and he knows it. He steps down from the cab, gritting his teeth. 
JEFF It was him.    It was this truck. 
SHERIFF BOYD Uh-huh, I can see that. Did you get a license plate? 
Jeff stares at him, knows where this is going. 
JEFF No. 
SHERIFF BOYD What about the information on the door panel. You recall any of that? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF I wasn't paying attention. 
The Sheriff studies him a beat, nods. 
SHERIFF BOYD Mr. Taylor, did you by any chance have a beef with your wife today? 
JEFF What does that have to do with anything? 
SHERIFF BOYD Well, for starters, maybe she left you. 
JEFF I don't believe this... 
SHERIFF BOYD I've seen it a hundred times. Lovers, married couples, gay guys. You put two people in a car long enough, they'll go at it. Hell, I've even seen men dump their women on the side of the road, and vice versa. 
Jeff stares at the cop.    Emphatic: 
JEFF My wife did not leave me. 
RED (cuts in) Officer, I'm sorry, I'd like to stay and help, but I really got to make it to Fresno... 
SHERIFF BOYD I understand. Go ahead, sir.         I appreciate your cooperation. 
JEFF This is insane. You're just going to let him go? 
SHERIFF BOYD I've got his information. If we need to find him later, we'll know where to look. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
RED Much obliged. (to Jeff) Good luck findin' your wife, mister. No hard feelings. 
Red climbs into the cab. Jeff watches helplessly, resigned to the fact there's nothing more he can do.        The Sheriff goes to the cruiser and speaks on the radio.        As the truck drives off, Jeff goes over to the cruiser. 
SHERIFF BOYD Sir, I believe you that your wife is missing. Maybe you got confused about what truck she got into, maybe you had a fight -- you don't have to tell me. The point is I'm trying to help. 
He hands Jeff a card with an address printed on it. 
SHERIFF BOYD The town of Brackett's 31 miles that way. My deputy's name is Len Carver. He's a good man. He'll help you fill out the necessary forms if you want to report your wife missing. 
Jeff clenches his jaw as the words sink in.    The Sheriff softens, his tone sympathetic. 
SHERIFF BOYD If you want my opinion, your wife is probably around here. Lost or plenty pissed off and giving you a scare. Either way, she'll turn up. 
As Jeff stares at the Sheriff, the police RADIO SQUAWKS. 
DISPATCHER (V.O.) (filtered) Sheriff, this is dispatch. Mrs. Gilbert's locked out of her trailer again. Can you respond? 
SHERIFF BOYD (into mike) 10-4, dispatch. Tell her I'm on my way. 
He racks the mike. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF I want your name and badge number. 
The Sheriff looks up at Jeff, sighs. 
SHERIFF BOYD Sheriff Arthur Boyd. 226-93. This really isn't necessary -- 
JEFF Don't tell me what's necessary, goddamnit. I'm noting the exact time of this conversation. 10:52 A.M. 
SHERIFF BOYD (exhaling) Suit yourself, Mr. Taylor. 
The Sheriff shifts into gear and drives away. Jeff is left standing on the side of the road, desert in all directions. 
CUT TO: 
INT. POLICE STATION - DAY 
A wall is covered with missing persons' notices. Photographs of men, women and children stare back at us. Names and dates are printed across the bottom of the notices. 
PULL BACK to reveal Jeff staring at the gallery of faces. It's a creepy feeling. Several yards away, DEPUTY LEN CARVER, a young puffy-faced lawman, sits at a desk filling out a form. Jeff looks shaken. 
DEPUTY CARVER Is this a recent picture? 
Jeff glances over. Deputy Carver is holding up a wallet- sized photograph of Amy. 
BARTENDER What are you, nuts? I don't have to show you jack shit. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Jeff leans in his face. 
JEFF If my wife came in here, then her name's in that pile. 
The Bartender stiffens, stares him straight in the eye: 
BARTENDER You calling me a liar? 
A tense beat. 
Possessed by a sudden impulse, Jeff makes a grab for the receipts. Before he can reach them, the Bartender's hand clamps onto his. 
BARTENDER Mister, I've had just about enough of you. 
JEFF Let me see the fucking slips. 
In one swift motion, Jeff overpowers the man and extracts the receipts. He starts going through them, fast, looking at names. TULLY, MARK, FLO, ANDY and... 
Jeff raises his eyes to face the unpleasant end of a Smith & Wesson revolver. 
BARTENDER Now, mister, you're going to have to leave. 
Jeff takes a step back. Everyone in the diner is staring. He stumbles backwards, heads for the exit. 
EXT. BELLE'S DINER - DAY 
Jeff exits, breathing hard, and runs to the phone booth. 
PHONE BOOTH 
is occupied by a YOUNG MAN with an awkward oversized frame, ill-fitting clothes. Jeff raps on the glass anxiously. 
JEFF Please, I need the phone -- I have to call the police! 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
The Man looks up, dull and glassy-eyed. His sluggish demeanor suggests mental retardation. He hangs up and slowly opens the door. 
SLUGGISH MAN (drawls) My name's Billy. You the feller lookin' for his wife? 
JEFF How'd you know? Did you see her? 
The Sluggish Man hesitates. There's something holding him back. Jeff senses this. 
JEFF Please, if you know something, anything, tell me. 
BILLY (SLUGGISH MAN) (a beat) I seen her... maybe. 
JEFF What?    When? 
Billy is about to answer. In b.g., the Bartender sticks his head out of the diner. Billy backs away, spooked. 
BILLY Oh man. Never shoulda opened my damn mouth. Now I'm gonna git it. 
Billy breaks into a loping run through the parking lot. Jeff hurries after him and catches up, cornering Billy between two cars, trying to calm him. 
JEFF No one's going to hurt you, Billy. Just tell me what you saw. 
Billy glances around nervously, swallowing. 
BILLY She came in on a truck.   A big white one. 
JEFF Yes... 
BILLY Then she... she got in another truck. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF Another truck? With who? 
BILLY Dunno. Some men. Bad men. They say I'm a dummy, but I ain't. I see things. 
Jeff reels, struggles to stay focused. 
JEFF Do you know where they went? 
BILLY Uh-huh.    Route seven.   Up by the river. 
JEFF Where by the river? 
BILLY Dunno. They don't tell me that kind of stuff. 
JEFF Who doesn't? The bartender?      The men in the truck? 
Billy's expression darkens.     He starts backing away. 
BILLY I ain't talking to you no more. 
JEFF Billy, I need you to come to the police. If you tell them what you saw, they'll be able to help me. 
has been hiding in the bushes off the road. It lurches forward and stops in the middle of the road, blocking Jeff's escape. Jeff's eyes widen in fear as he recognizes the vehicle and its driver: Earl. 
Earl gets out of the cab with a hunting rifle.   He raises it to his shoulder. 
EARL (calling out) Out of the car! Put your hands where I can see 'em! 
JEFF 
swears, panicking. 
EARL I said get out, dammit!   Now! 
Jeff stares into the rifle, deliberating.   His hand moves to the gearshift. 
He jerks it into reverse and floors the gas! 
CHEROKEE 
peels out in reverse, snaking wildly side to side, aiming for the chainlink fence. 
It BURSTS the FENCE!   Poles and chain mesh go flying! 
JEFF 
cranks the wheel and brakes hard. The rear end of the Cherokee swings wide to the edge of the road. 
He throws the shift into drive and punches the throttle. 
EARL 
jumps in the Ram and takes off in pursuit. 
JEFF 
GUNS the ENGINE. The Cherokee bounces wildly on the rutted, storm-damaged road. He yanks the four-wheel- drive lever. 
DIRT ROAD 
The huge pickup streaks after the Cherokee, its 7.5-LITER V10 ROARING, oversized tires devouring the terrain. 
JEFF 
GUNS the ENGINE on the washboard road surface, the vibration nearly shaking the suspension apart while -- 
RAM 
keeps pace in the dust from its wake. Inside the cab, Earl can be seen speaking on a CB transmitter. 
JEFF 
throws the Cherokee into a sharp turn in the road. As the car rounds the bend, he looks up, reacting, as -- 
IDLED BULLDOZER 
blocks the road at a construction site. More unattended earthmoving equipment fills the road beyond. 
JEFF 
brakes wildly. To his right, a cliff goes straight up; on the left, a guardrail protects a steep ravine. 
He cuts the wheel left, CRASHES through the GUARDRAIL and plunges into the ravine! 
CHEROKEE 
bounces wildly as it hurtles down the slope, CRASHING through sagebrush and manzanita. 
JEFF 
clings to the wheel, tossed about violently, as suitcases and packing boxes go everywhere. 
The Cherokee hits a bump on the steep slope and CRASHES through the upper branches of a willow grove. 
As the leaves part, we see... a river. 
CHEROKEE 
lands on the passenger side with a SPLASH and comes to rest half-submerged in the RUSHING WATER. 
EARL 
jerks the Ram to a halt, leaps out and runs to the edge of the road to look down on the Cherokee in the river. 
EARL Sonofabitch... 
He grabs the rifle and begins making his way down the slope. 
INSIDE CHEROKEE 
The world is sideways. Water rushes into the car. Jeff is strapped into the driver's seat by the seatbelt. The AIRBAG DEFLATES with a HISS. 
Jeff grimaces in pain. He looks around, blinking.   The river is flowing right through the Cherokee! 
Luggage, styrofoam hamburger clamshells and empty Coke cans bob on the surface of the water. 
Jeff fumbles with the seatbelt release. The belt comes free and he drops suddenly into the water on the passenger side. 
He gets to his feet, reaches overhead to unlatch the driver's side door and pushes it open. 
He hoists himself through the door. 
Red turns back to Jeff. 
RED Like I said, Jeff, if you want to call the cops, there's nothing I can do. Hell, with the fire you've got in your eyes right now, I figure you're fixing on calling the F.B.I., C.I.A. -- even the 82nd Airborne. 
Jeff stares back. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
RED Problem is, you can see this town for miles around. So ask yourself: How's the law gonna get here? They gonna fly in? Drive in? Either way, we'll see 'em. So let me be very clear: if we see one unmarked car, one plane, one human being who even smells like a cop -- this deal is dead. 
He tosses Jeff the binoculars. 
RED Now take a look at the building with the flagpole. 
Jeff hesitates, then raises the binoculars. 
THROUGH BINOCULARS 
The IMAGE SHIFTS, then STEADIES and FOCUSES ON a small building with a police cruiser out front and a barely legible sign: "BRACKETT SHERIFF." It's the police station where Jeff filed the missing persons' form earlier. 
RED (O.S.) There's exactly two cops in this town. One of them's inside pulling ass duty; the other's on patrol in the foothills. Now a minute ago one of my men called in a non-injury accident on the I-40 connector. 
Deputy Carver comes out of the building gulping down a sandwich. He gets in the cruiser and pulls away, lights flashing. 
RED (O.S.) It'll take that good ol' boy 20 minutes to get to the connector, another 10 to see there's no accident, and another 20 or so to tool his way back. 50 minutes all in. 
The cruiser pulls away down the highway. 
JEFF 
lowers the binoculars and looks at Red. 
RED That's your deadline. If for any reason one of those cops pulls into town before I'm looking at a bag of money, your wife is dead, you're shit out of luck and we're gone for good. 
He smiles at Jeff. 
RED See, that's why there's no risk to us in this thing. You do the legwork. We sit back, we watch, we listen to our scanners, we monitor you every step of the way. If at any moment we don't like something, we split. Period. (beat) Helluva lot safer than sticking up 7-11s, wouldn't you say? 
They lock eyes.   Red tosses Jeff a Windbreaker. 
RED Put this on. You can't go into the bank like that. 
Jeff puts on the jacket.    It covers his filthy shirt. Red checks his watch. 
RED How about it, Jeff? Time to get the show on the road? 
ON Jeff's expression... 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BOTTOM OF MESA - DAY 
Jeff stumbles and nearly falls as he descends   the loose rock at the foot of the mesa. He looks up at    the ridge, but Red and his crew have pulled back out of   view. Jeff starts across an open field toward the town,   first jogging, then running. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Jeff hurries toward the bank. He looks back at the mesa again. The gang has disappeared. 
Up ahead, a mud-streaked pickup cruises the main street. Jeff eyes it warily. Is it one of theirs? The truck pulls around a corner. 
INT. BANK - DAY 
Jeff pushes through the main doors. It's a typical small town operation. A guard stands near the entrance. Several customers wait in line for the woman teller. 
Jeff looks at the slow-moving line and swears softly. He doesn't have time to wait. He glances around, sees an older man sitting at a desk in the rear of the bank, the nameplate on the desk identifying him as Roger Calhoun. Jeff approaches. 
JEFF I need to see the manager. I need a wire transfer from my bank in Boston. 
CALHOUN looks up from his paperwork, hesitates at Jeff's appearance. 
CALHOUN Yes... sir. I'm the manager. Would you like to have a seat? 
Jeff remains standing.    He eyes the other customers nervously. 
CALHOUN Sir? 
JEFF (turning; preoccupied) What? 
CALHOUN I said you can have a seat if you want. 
JEFF Right. 
He takes a seat across the desk from the manager, reaches into his wallet and brings out several forms of identification. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF Here's my driver's license, credit card if you need it, my account number in Boston... How long is this going to take? 
Calhoun looks at him curiously. 
CALHOUN Are you all right? 
JEFF (quickly) Yes, I'm fine. Look, that account only has $5,000 in it. How much can you advance me on my credit card? 
CALHOUN Excuse me? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HIGHWAY - OUTSKIRTS OF TOWN - DAY 
Jeff walks along the road, carrying the envelope. Various cars pass in either direction, but none slow down. 
Jeff stiffens as an 18-wheeler approaches. But the TRUCK THUNDERS past, blowing a cloud of dust and sand in his face. 
Jeff continues walking, anxiously checking over his shoulder every few moments. His eyes narrow. 
The Dodge Ram pickup is cruising toward him. It slows, then brakes to a halt. The passenger door opens. Earl sits behind the wheel, aiming an automatic pistol. 
EARL Toss the envelope on the seat. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Jeff stands firm. 
JEFF No.   First you tell me where she is. 
EARL Wrong, asshole. First you give me the money, then you find out. Unless you want me to shoot you dead right here on the highway. 
Jeff looks around, wonders if Earl would risk shooting him in view of passing traffic. 
Jeff hesitates, then tosses the envelope on the      seat. Earl opens it, reaches in and pulls out several      packets of currency. They are wrapped with paper bands       and appear to be stacks of fifties and hundreds. He       replaces them and gestures at Jeff with the gun. 
EARL Now lift your shirt and jacket and turn around. 
Jeff complies. Earl sees that he isn't carrying a gun. He beckons Jeff toward the truck with the automatic. 
EARL Turn around, hands behind your back, and step toward the truck. 
Jeff takes two backwards steps toward the passenger side door. Earl grabs his arms, yanks roughly and wraps them with several layers of duct tape. 
EARL Now get up in the truck, knees on the floor. Do it now! 
Jeff struggles into an awkward kneeling position on the floor, facing the rear of the pickup, his belly pressed against the seat. 
Earl reaches over and pulls the door shut. He throws the truck in gear and starts driving. Jeff grimaces, looking up at him. 
JEFF I gave you the money.     Now let her go. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
EARL 'Let her go.'    Do I look like I have her? 
JEFF What the hell -- 
Earl backhands Jeff against the passenger door. There is a RINGING sound and Earl pulls a CELL PHONE from his pocket. He presses a button and raises it to his face. 
EARL (on phone) It's done. I'm heading in. (a beat; listening) Gotcha. 
He ends the call and tosses the cell phone on the dash. 
EARL You gotta be the dumbest motherfuck yet. You think we picked you out of the blue? New car, Massachusetts plates -- probably be days before anyone misses you. Hell, you shoulda got the bumper sticker that goes with it: 'Rich Assholes Looking for Trouble!' 
He tucks the pistol in his belt.   Jeff looks at him, seething. 
Jeff tries to squirm free. Earl sees it and belts him across the temple. Jeff slams into the passenger door, wincing. 
EARL I'd have loved to see the look on your face when that car seized up. (mimicking panicked driver) Help, help, I ain't got no power! 
Earl laughs. Jeff has come to rest with his back against the door. By contorting his arms, he is able to draw the letter opener from his pocket. 
He manipulates the letter opener into position and begins cutting the duct tape that binds his wrists. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Steering with one hand, Earl reaches into the envelope, pulls out a packet of bills and waves it in Jeff's face. Jeff saws faster at the duct tape. 
EARL You know what I'm gonna do first with your money, boy? Well, do you? 
Jeff glares at him. 
EARL (fluttering bills under his nose) I'll give you a hint. Only one thing smells better than money. You wanta guess what? 
Earl laughs obscenely. He riffles the bills under his nose again, then stops abruptly, frowning. He looks down at the bills. 
EARL What the hell? 
Earl stares at the bills. Jeff works feverishly behind his back. Earl pulls out another packet, then another, examining the bills. 
EARL These are... it's nothing but singles... (erupting) You lyin' sonofabitch! 
There is a RIPPING SOUND. Jeff wrests his hands free and lunges across the cab. He plants the letter opener in Earl's shoulder! 
EARL Aaagghh! 
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY 
The pickup veers across the center line on the narrow mountain road. It swerves back, over-correcting wildly, and drifts for the opposite shoulder. 
INT. PICKUP - DAY 
INT. POLICE CRUISER - DAY 
The sheriff reacts. 
SHERIFF BOYD What the hell? 
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 
As the Ram passes, Sheriff Boyd throws the cruiser into a SCREECHING 180-degree turn. He flicks on the SIREN and takes off in pursuit. 
INT. DODGE RAM - DAY 
Jeff glances in the rearview mirror. The cruiser is on their tail, SIREN WAILING, lights flashing. He swears and pumps the brakes in a series of rapid bursts. 
JEFF End of the line, Earl! How about it? You gonna tell me? 
EARL She's with Billy. 
JEFF Yeah?     Where's that? 
EARL I don't know!    Driving around! 
Jeff hits the brakes again. 
INT. CRUISER - DAY 
Sheriff Boyd jerks the wheel to avoid a collision with the pickup as it slows and accelerates in rapid spurts. 
SHERIFF BOYD (on radio) Repeat, I am in pursuit of a Dodge Ram pickup. Request back-up, repeat, request back-up! 
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 
The cruiser pulls up alongside the pickup... 
INT. CRUISER - DAY 
Boyd reacts in amazement to what he sees -- 
SHERIFF BOYD Jesus Christ -- (on radio) Dispatch! Suspect identified as one Jeffrey Taylor, repeat, Jeffrey Taylor! 
Boyd taps his brakes, falling back behind the pickup. 
INT. PICKUP - DAY 
Jeff is wild-eyed. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF Where were you taking the money? 
EARL (losing it) To the truck stop... 
JEFF Where? 
EARL Main highway... Texaco... 
Jeff has the information he needs.       He slams on the brakes! 
INT. CRUISER - DAY 
Sheriff Boyd swerves to avoid a crash as the RAM SCREECHES to a halt in front of him! 
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 
The cruiser skids to a stop. Jeff leaps from the pickup with the pistol in his hand. He rushes toward the cruiser. Sheriff Boyd hops out, levels his service revolver. 
JEFF I know where she is!   My wife! 
SHERIFF BOYD (ignoring him) Drop the gun! 
Jeff pitches the gun away and it skitters down an embankment. He raises his hands. 
JEFF You don't understand!      She's been kidnapped! 
SHERIFF BOYD I understand plenty. Now get down on the ground or I'll shoot! 
He means it. 
INT. PICKUP - DAY 
Earl struggles for breath. The duct tape is still tight around his neck. He strains against the tape binding his limbs. 
He glances in the side view mirror to see the Sheriff ordering Jeff down on the ground. 
By wriggling and contorting his wrists, Earl is able to tear one hand free. Then he pulls away the rest of the duct tape from his knees. 
The tape is still wrapped tightly around    his neck, pinning him to the backrest. Earl claws     at the tape, but it won't come free. Finally, with both     hands, he reaches behind his head and yanks the read rest    from the seat. 
He reaches into his boot for something... 
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 
Jeff is spread-eagled on the ground. Sheriff Boyd calls out to Earl in the cab. He keeps his gun leveled. 
SHERIFF BOYD You there -- in the pickup! You all right? Can you get out? 
EARL Yeah! Just don't shoot me, officer! He's crazy, I tell you! 
Jeff's jaw tightens. He glances toward the road, sees two more highway patrol cars cruising the perimeter of the truck stop. 
Swearing, Jeff turns on his heels and walks away in the opposite direction, shielding his face. 
EXT. TRUCK STOP PARKING LOT - DAY 
Jeff emerges from between two vehicles, glancing over his shoulder nervously. He keeps his head down, moving fast. 
He scans the truck stop in all directions. The patrol car is still parked on the ridge, the patrolman peering through binoculars. 
Jeff quickens his pace alongside the truck stop building, passing a row of pay phones. He looks up, stops dead. 
Red is talking on a pay phone six feet away. 
Jeff stares. Red is facing away, unaware of his presence. Jeff darts into an adjacent pay phone. 
He shields his face with the receiver and listens. 
RED (on phone) I don't know, dammit, he was supposed to be here a half hour ago. There's reports on the police band about a cop down and this place is crawling with uniforms... 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Red waits, listens. 
RED Look, I'm getting out of here. Stay off the airwaves. Bring the girl and meet me at the barn... You got that? 
He hangs up.   Jeff presses the phone against his face and turns away. 
When he looks up, Red is walking toward his Peterbilt truck, parked in a row of big rigs. Jeff starts to follow, then freezes. 
Several cops are fanning out on foot, questioning everyone they encounter. 
Jeff sees Red getting into his truck. The ENGINE KICKS OVER. The BRAKES HISS and the truck begins pulling out. 
Jeff whips around. The older vacationing couple are talking to a cop fifty yards away. The husband points toward the pay phones. 
Jeff makes a sudden decision, doubles back behind a rolling farm truck. 
COP 
thanks the couple, calls out something to his fellow officers. 
JEFF 
runs alongside the farm truck, using it as a shield. He overtakes the truck, cuts across its path. The farmer BLARES his HORN. 
Jeff glances left. Red's tractor trailer is traveling across the crowded parking area, slowly gaining speed. Jeff sprints in front of a moving car. 
The driver jerks to a halt and HONKS, catching the attention of a nearby cop. Jeff quickly turns away, avoiding being seen. 
Red's 18-wheeler turns toward the access road. Jeff looks around, panicked. More cops are spreading out on foot. They'll notice him any second. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Jeff crouches low and scurries underneath a slow-moving postal truck. The truck speeds up, nearly crushing him under the rear wheel assembly. 
Jeff rolls out of the path of the giant wheels, gets to his feet on the other side and finds himself... 
... in the path of another huge truck! 
A cop is standing only 20 feet away! Jeff goes underneath another trailer, crawling between the moving wheels. He springs to his feet. 
Red's Peterbilt is pulling away! 
Jeff runs for all he's worth. His arms and legs pump furiously. He runs abreast of the truck... 
... and seizes the spare tire mount! 
EXT. INTERSTATE - UNDER TRUCK - DAY 
Jeff hangs on for dear life. His legs drag over the asphalt. He lets out a cry of pain. 
The truck is joining the highway, accelerating. 
Grimacing, Jeff swings his legs over the universal joint as the roadway races past below. The huge TIRES are a HOWLING blur. 
Suddenly his grip falters on the grease. His back scrapes the rushing asphalt. Jeff gasps, makes a grab and holds firm. 
As he hangs on, a station wagon overtakes the Peterbilt in the passing lane. A three-year-old boy sits in the rear compartment, staring out at Jeff, a puzzled expression on his face. 
Jeff stares back. It's an odd moment between the two. The station wagon continues forward and EXITS FRAME. 
EXT. INTERSTATE - DAY 
The PETERBILT THUNDERS over a patch of highway that is being graded for paving. 
EXT. UNDER TRUCK - DAY 
The tires kick up a hail storm of loose gravel and dirt, pelting Jeff all over his body. 
He realizes he can't stay where he is. Grunting with effort, he works his way hand over hand along the underside rigging toward the cab. 
He seizes the trailer hitch and hoists himself up. 
EXT. BETWEEN CAB AND TRAILER - DAY 
Red is out of his chair. Jeff dives first and seizes the rifle. He whirls, aims the pistol at Red. 
JEFF Don't fucking move! 
Everyone freezes. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Jeff sidesteps to the window. Billy is running across the yard. Is he headed for the barn? Jeff swears, turns back. 
JEFF Deke?   Deke?   Get on your feet! 
Deke rises, tears streaming down his face. 
JEFF It's okay, kid. Go over there, stand next to your mother. Hurry up. 
Deke obeys. Clutching his shoulder wound, Al glares at the child as he passes. 
Jeff deliberates. Where the hell was Billy going?          He gnaws his lip, decides. 
JEFF Okay... on your feet.   Now, everybody! 
Red, Arleen and Al get to their feet. Deke stays at his mother's side. Jeff aims the pistol at Red, holds the rifle with his other hand. 
JEFF Let's go.      Out. 
He herds them to the door.      Arleen looks to Red nervously. 
RED Do like he says, Arleen.      He's crazy. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BARN - NIGHT 
Jeff trains the pistol as his captives stand at the entrance to the barn. He glances around, keeping an eye out for Billy. 
JEFF (to Red) Okay. Reach into your pocket and hand the key to your wife. 
RED This ain't gonna work, boy. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
JEFF (jams pistol at him) Do it. 
Red fishes a key ring out of his pocket and extends it to Arleen. She just stands there. 
RED It's okay, Arleen.      Take it. 
She takes the keys. 
JEFF (indicating barn door) Okay, now unlock it. 
Arleen inserts a key, opens the padlock. 
JEFF Good.  Now give me the keys. (turning to Deke) Deke, push the door open. Quickly. 
Deke looks at his father. Red nods.         Deke goes to the door, begins wheeling it open. 
JEFF That's enough, Deke. (gesturing them inside with gun) Let's go. Move it. 
Jeff herds all four into -- 
INT. BARN - NIGHT 
Jeff leads the group through the barn at gun-point. 
He glances right and left, wired. The rifle is strapped to his back. He keeps the handgun ready. He peers under the tractor-trailer, looking for any sign of Billy. 
They reach the trap door. Jeff circles it, constantly keeping an eye on Red and Al. He hands the keys to Deke. 
JEFF Deke, I need you to open this. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Deke looks at his father. He kneels, unlocks the padlock and heaves open the trap door, revealing a narrow staircase slanting into the cellar. 
Deke looks down into the darkness and swallows. 
JEFF It's okay, Deke. There's a freezer down there with a woman in it. I need you to let her out. 
Deke descends the steps, frightened. 
DEKE (O.S.) (voice quavering) I can't see. 
Jeff jabs the pistol at Red:    Tell him where the light is. 
RED (a beat, to Deke) The switch is on the right. 
There's a CLICK and the light goes on in the cellar. Deke lets out a yip of fear. 
DEKE (O.S.) Dad... 
RED It's all right, son.     Just ignore that stuff. 
EXT. FIELD - LONG SHOT - DAWN 
Jeff and Amy are tiny figures sprinting across the flat terrain, illuminated by the red glow of a rising sun. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. TRAILER HOME - DAWN (MINUTES LATER) 
The morning sky is lighter now. 
A rickety trailer surrounded by a chicken coop, junked appliances and a clothesline. There's an old utility pickup truck parked in front. Jeff and Amy arrive out of breath. Jeff pounds on the door. 
JEFF Hello?   Hello?     Anybody home? 
There's no answer. Jeff puts his shoulder to the door and rams it open. The flimsy door gives way easily. 
INT. TRAILER - DAWN 
Jeff enters. The place is ramshackle -- torn vinyl furniture, empty beer bottles scattered about. A tattered flag hangs on the wall. There's no one around. 
JEFF (shouting) Hello? Anyone home? 
Amy follows him inside, looks around. Jeff crosses the room, snatches up a phone and dials 911. 
JEFF C'mon, c'mon... 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
While he waits for an answer, Amy leans the rifle against the wall. She notices a set of car keys hanging by the door. 
JEFF (re: keys) Take it. We may need to get out of here -- (into phone, suddenly) Hello! This is Jeff Taylor. I'm reporting an emergency... I don't know the address, the house belongs to a Red Barr -- I mean, Warren something... No, I don't know his name! 
AMY (suddenly hearing something) Jeff -- 
A DEEP RUMBLE is approaching, GETTING LOUDER by the second... 
JEFF No -- he kidnapped my wife, he's locked in a barn... Jeffrey Taylor. If you contact the police in -- 
Amy pulls a curtain aside, reacts to what she sees -- 
AMY (panicked) Jeff! 
Suddenly, the ROAR is DEAFENING -- 
The PETERBILT EXPLODES through the wall of the trailer home! 
JEFF AND AMY 
dive out of the way. 
INT. RED'S PETERBILT - DAY 
Inside the truck cab, we catch a glimpse of Red behind the wheel, shouting something inaudible. Fragments of debris cling to the grille. 
INT. TRAILER HOME - DAY 
The rickety structure spins 360 degrees! 
Jeff goes flying. A TELEVISION somersaults across the room and EXPLODES. Amy slams into a wall. 
The speeding Peterbilt shears away a section of the trailer home with a horrible RIPPING sound! 
The trailer home is suddenly open to the sky. 
INT. TRUCK CAB - DAY 
Red puts the truck into a hard turn, circling for another run at the devastated trailer. 
INT. TRAILER HOME - DAY 
Jeff struggles to his knees. 
JEFF Amy?! 
Amy is crawling over the debris. Jeff pulls her to her feet. He grabs the rifle and car keys. 
JEFF C'mon! 
They stagger through the gaping hole in the trailer. 
INT. TRUCK CAB - DAY 
Red sees Amy and Jeff flee the trailer and head for the utility pickup. He throws the Peterbilt into a turn. 
YARD 
Amy and Jeff run for the Ford F100 utility truck -- an aging blue-collar workhorse equipped with side-mounted toolboxes and a lumber rack bearing a ladder. 
IN FORD 
Jeff keys the ignition. The ENGINE SPUTTERS. Amy whips around to see the Peterbilt bearing down from the side. 
AMY Jeff, go!    Go! 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
a STRAY BULLET SLICES the hydraulic brake line running to the trailer. The HOSE HISSES and whips through the air! 
IN PETERBILT 
Red swears and lets the truck fall back, swearing. Up ahead is a long, curving downgrade. He taps the brakes. There is a jolt as the trailer bumps the tractor. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
RED Sonofabitch -- 
He realizes:    The trailer's got no brakes. 
HIGHWAY 
The Peterbilt descends the grade, letting out a RAPID- FIRE BLAT of BACKFIRES. It's gaining speed, bearing down on the Ford. 
IN FORD 
Amy turns in the seat, terrified. The truck looms closer. Jeff keeps the gas pedal on the floor. 
JEFF Hang on! 
They are flying into a hairy curve. 
IN PETERBILT 
Red struggles to stay in control. Every time he applies the brakes, the unchecked trailer jars the cab forward. 
The Peterbilt races into the curve. 
Red has no choice. He has to pump the brakes and risk jackknifing or the truck will fly off the road altogether. 
He hits the brakes! 
HIGHWAY 
The huge TRUCK SCREECHES on the asphalt, tires smoking, cab and trailer folding at right angles! 
Then, unexpectedly, the trailer disconnects from the cab! 
IN CADILLAC 
Flanking the Peterbilt, Al glances to the side and sees the trailer come untethered from the cab. 
Now the trailer is an unguided missile, weaving drunkenly back and forth across the blacktop. 
Al tries to swerve away. The trailer streaks toward him. Al SLAMS on the BRAKES, screaming! 
HIGHWAY 
The trailer piles into the Cadillac. There is a huge IMPACT as trailer and Cadillac are reduced to scrap metal! 
And just as this is happening... 
PETERBILT 
blasts into the rear of the Ford, jarring it forward with a CRUNCH of METAL and taillights! 
JEFF 
slams against the wheel. Amy is thrown against the dashboard. The Ford is being propelled downhill by the Peterbilt. 
HIGHWAY 
The two vehicles are now locked together, gaining speed as they hurtle down the grade. 
JEFF 
jams the pistol through the rear pass-through window and FIRES at Red in the truck. BULLETS PING off the grille. 
The GUN CLICKS empty. 
IN PETERBILT 
Red hits the brakes, but it's no use. The bumpers are meshed. The two vehicles plunge downhill, skidding sideways. 
Up ahead, a concrete bridge spans a deep gorge. 
HIGHWAY 
The Peterbilt and Ford fly onto the bridge. The big truck glances off a railing. The vehicles suddenly come unlocked. 
The FORD plows into the concrete railing with a CRASH! 
The PETERBILT creams it from behind and caroms away, SKIDDING the length of the bridge before SMACKING the opposite railing! 
INSIDE ROAD 
Jeff grimaces. In front of them, the concrete railing has broken away. Debris falls 300 feet to the bottom of the gorge. The Ford's right front tire hangs in the air. 
Jeff looks at Amy.   She looks wildly adrenalated, eyes wide. 
JEFF You all right? 
Amy looks back at him.   She expels a long breath and nods. 
Jeff forces his upper body through the driver's window and looks over the Ford's roof at the Peterbilt. 
Suddenly the passenger side door flies open and Jeff surges into the cab, landing on Red, clawing at his eyes! 
They grapple in the cab. Red swings an elbow into Jeff's face -- crack. Jeff drives a fist to his jaw! 
The steering wheel drifts counter-clockwise as the truck inches forward, ramming the Ford closer to the precipice. 
Red gets his hands around Jeff's neck as the steering wheel continues to move counter-clockwise... 
ON BRIDGE 
The truck is no longer hitting the Ford squarely. Instead, the Peterbilt's right front tire is riding up and over the cargo bed, crushing the left side of the Ford under its massive weight. 
IN PETERBILT 
Red has both hands around Jeff's windpipe.    He glances up for a second, reacts, but it's too late. 
ON BRIDGE 
The Peterbilt is surging up the driver's side of the Ford, using the pickup like a ramp! 
IN FORD 
Amy screams as the left side of the cab is flattened under the Peterbilt's weight! 
ON BRIDGE 
For an instant, the Peterbilt's front tires seem to hang in the air... then the truck is falling! 
IN PETERBILT 
Red and Jeff are thrown forward in the cab, still flailing at each other, as the truck plunges nose-first into the gorge. 
Then it jerks to a halt in mid-air! 
ON BRIDGE 
The left rear set of wheels on the trailer is snagged on the thick rebar reinforcement in the crumbled concrete railing. 
The Peterbilt is dangling nose-down from the bridge! 
IN PETERBILT 
Jeff slams into the windshield. Red lands on top of him. Loose objects from the cab rain against the windshield. 
They grapple. Red grabs Jeff's arm and twists sharply, forcing it at an impossible angle. Their faces are inches apart. 
RED You think you can fuck with me?! 
He headbutts Jeff viciously -- crack! Blood erupts from Jeff's nose and mouth. Red is about to deliver another blow when... 
... the windshield falls away! The loose items in the cab plummet 300 feet to the canyon floor below. 
Jeff drops through the windshield opening. He clings to the center support column. His legs dangle over the hood. 
Red slips through the opening, his hand locking on the steering wheel at the last instant. 
The windshield sails away into the gorge. 
ON BRIDGE 
The iron REBAR GROANS. It's beginning to give way under the weight of the truck. The truck slips slightly. 
ON PETERBILT 
Jeff feels the truck shifting. He grabs the windshield wiper blade with his free hand. The blade snaps away. 
Red is clinging to the steering wheel. He flails at Jeff with his feet, swearing. Jeff is barely out of reach. 
Jeff looks to the side. There is a grabhandle on the corner of the cab. He reaches with his free hand and seizes the handle. 
ON BRIDGE 
The REBAR GROANS. The truck is wedged against the Ford. As the truck slips, it forces the Ford closer to the edge. 
ON PETERBILT 
Jeff clings to the handle. He reaches for the passenger side door handle, working his way up toward the bridge. 
REBAR 
gives away once more and -- 
JEFF 
scales the cab, finding more handholds.   He climbs past the passenger door. 
Behind him, Red is working his way higher in the same manner. He grabs Jeff's foot, trying to pull him off the cab. 
Jeff kicks free and climbs past the sleeping compartment. Red grabs the door handle. Jeff boots the door release button. 
The passenger door flies open! 
Red falls away as the door opens. He's clinging to the open passenger door, suspended over the gorge. 
IN FORD 
Amy breathes in sharply, feeling the Ford move closer to the edge. She struggles to free her legs from the dashboard. 
AMY Oh God... Jeff... 
