Bender looks up. 
BENDER Crystal... 
VERNON Good.  Maybe you'll learn a little something about yourself.  Maybe you'll even--decide whether or not you care to return. 
Brian raises his hand and then stands. 
BRIAN You know, I can answer that right now sir...That'd be "No", no for me. 'cause... 
VERNON Sit down Johnson... 
BRIAN Thank you sir... 
He sits. 
VERNON My office... 
Vernon points. 
VERNON ...is right across that hall.  Any monkey business is ill-advised... 
He looks around at them. 
VERNON ...any questions? 
BENDER Yeah...I got a question. 
Vernon looks at him suspiciously. 
BENDER Does Barry Manilow know you raid his wardrobe? 
VERNON I'll give you the answer to that question, Mr. Bender, next Saturday. Don't mess with the bull young man, you'll get the horns. 
Vernon leaves. 
BENDER That man...is a brownie hound... 
Everyone tries to get comfortable and we hear a loud snapping sound.  Brian turns and looks and it is Allison, biting her nails. 
Bender's eyes widen as he turns to look.  Everyone is looking now.  Allison notices them looking at her. 
BENDER You keep eating your hand and you're not gonna be hungry for lunch... 
Allison spits part of her nail at Bender. 
BENDER I've seen you before, you know... 
We see Vernon look out from his office. 
We see Brian playing with his pen. 
BRIAN (quietly to himself) Who do I think I am?  Who are you? Who are you? 
He attaches the pen to his bottom lip and puts the top under his upper lip. 
BRIAN I am a walrus... 
Bender looks at him in utter confusion.  Brian notices this, laughs and takes the pen out of his mouth-- embarrassed. 
BENDER Totally? 
ANDREW Totally! 
CLAIRE (to Bender) Why don't you just shut up!  Nobody here is interested! 
ANDREW Really! (to Claire about Bender) Buttface! 
BENDER Well hey Sporto!  What'd you do to get in here?  Forget to wash your jock? 
BRIAN (nervous) Uh, excuse me, fellas?  I think we should just write our papers... 
ANDREW (to Bender) Look, just because you live in here doesn't give you the right to be a pain in the ass...so knock it off! 
Bender mockingly registers pain in his face. 
BENDER It's a free country... 
CLAIRE (to Andrew) He's just doing it to get a rise out of you!  Just ignore him... 
BENDER (to Claire) Sweets...you couldn't ignore me if you tried! 
Claire rolls her eyes. 
BENDER So...so! (to Andrew and Claire) Are you guys like boyfriend/girl- friend? (a beat) Steady dates? (another beat) Lo--vers? (another beat) Come on Sporto, level with me.  Do you slip her the hot...beef... injection? 
Claire and Andrew turn to face Bender, both furious. 
CLAIRE (screams) Go to hell! 
ANDREW (screams) Enough! 
CUT TO: 
7. INT. VERNON'S OFFICE - DAY 
We see Vernon in his office. 
VERNON (yells) Hey!  What's going on in there? (to himself) Smug little pricks! CUT TO: 
8. INT. LIBRARY - DAY 
They all look at each other.  Andrew turns away from Bender. 
ANDREW (to himself) Scumbag! 
Bender stands up and walks over to the railing.  He sits on it. 
BENDER What do you say we close that door. We can't have any kind of party with Vernon checking us out every few seconds. 
BRIAN Well, you know the door's s'posed to stay open... 
BENDER So what? 
ANDREW So why don't you just shut up! There's four other people in here you know... 
BENDER God, you can count.  See!  I knew you had to be smart to be a...a wrestler. 
ANDREW Who the hell are you to judge anybody anyway? 
Bender points at Brian. 
BENDER ...they are. (to Brian) What do you guys do in your club? 
BRIAN In physics, um, we ah, we talk about physics...about properties of physics. 
BENDER So it's sorta social...demented and sad, but social.  Right? 
BRIAN Yeah, well, I guess you could consider it a social situation.  I mean there are other children in my club and uh, at the end of the year we have, um, you know, a big banquet, at the, uh, at the Hilton. 
BENDER You load up, you party... 
BRIAN Well, no, we get dressed up...I mean, but, we don't...we don't get high. 
CLAIRE (to Bender) Only burners like you get high... 
BRIAN And, uh, I didn't have any shoes. So I had to borrow my dad's.  It was kinda weird 'cause my mom doesn't like me to wear other people's shoes.  And, uh, my cousin Kent...my cousin Kendall from, uh, Indiana... He got high once and you know, he started eating like really weird foods.  And uh, and then he just felt like he didn't belong anywhere. You know, kinda like, you know "Twilight Zone" kinda. 
CLAIRE (laughs) (to Bender) Sounds like you... 
ANDREW Look, you guys keep up your talking and Vernon's gonna come right in here...I got a meet this Saturday and I'm not gonna miss it on account of you boneheads... 
BENDER (to Andrew) Oh and wouldn't that be a bite... 
Bender lets out a moan of fake agony. 
BENDER Missing a whole wrestling meet! 
ANDREW Well you wouldn't know anything about it, faggot!  You never competed in your whole life! 
BENDER (with mock hurt) Oh, I know...I feel all empty inside because of it.  I have such a deep admiration for guys that roll around on the floor with other guys! 
ANDREW Ahhh...you'd never miss it.  You don't have any goals. 
BENDER Oh, but I do! 
ANDREW Yeah? 
BENDER I wanna be just--like--you!  I figure all I need's a labotamy and some tights! 
Brian becomes interested. 
BRIAN You wear tights? 
ANDREW (to Brian) No I don't wear tights, I wear the required uniform... 
BRIAN Tights... 
ANDREW (defensive) Shut up! 
They hear Vernon moving around out in the hall so Bender quickly comes and sits in the chair between Claire and Andrew.  He folds his hands on the table. Vernon goes back into his office.  Bender laughs and gets up.  He starts walking towards the double doors that separate the library from the hallway. 
BRIAN You know there's not s'posed to be any monkey business! 
Bender turns and points at Brian. 
BENDER (in a stern voice) Young man...have you finished your paper? 
Bender turns back away and goes to the door.  He looks around cautiously and removes a screw from the door. 
CLAIRE We were just sitting here, like we were s'posed to... 
Vernon looks around and looks at Bender. 
VERNON Who closed that door? 
BENDER I think a screw fell out of it... 
ANDREW It just closed, sir... 
Vernon looks at Allison in the back. 
VERNON Who? 
Allison lets out a squeak and slams her face onto the table, hiding in her jacket hood. 
BENDER She doesn't talk, sir... 
VERNON (to Bender) Give me that screw... 
BENDER I don't have it... 
VERNON You want me to yank you outta that seat and shake it out of you? 
BENDER I don't have it...screws fall out all of the time, the world's an imperfect place... 
VERNON Give it to me, Bender... 
CLAIRE Excuse me, sir, why would anybody want to steal a screw? 
VERNON (to Claire) Watch it, young lady... 
Vernon goes over to the door.  He tries to hold it open by putting a folding chair in front of it. 
BENDER The door's way too heavy, sir. 
The door slams shut despite the chair. 
VERNON (OS) God damnit! 
They laugh. 
Vernon opens the door again.  He comes back in. 
VERNON (pointing) Andrew Clark...get up here.  Come on, front and center, let's go. 
Andrew gets up and walks over to Vernon. 
BENDER Hey, how come Andrew gets to get up? If he gets up, we'll all get up, it'll be anarchy! 
Vernon and Andrew are now attempting to move the steel magazine rack in front of the door. 
VERNON Okay, now, watch the magazines! 
BENDER It's out of my hands... 
They get it into the doorway and it blocks the entire door. 
BENDER That's very clever sir, but what if there's a fire?  I think violating fire codes and endangering the lives of children would be unwise at this juncture in your career, sir. 
BENDER Do you really think I give a shit? 
VERNON Another... 
Bender glares at him. 
VERNON You through? 
BENDER How many is that? 
BRIAN That's seven including the one when we first came in and you asked Mr. Vernon here whether Barry Manilow knew that he raided his closet. 
VERNON (to Bender) Now it's eight... (to Brian) You stay out of it! 
BRIAN Excuse me, sir, it's seven! 
VERNON Shut up, Peewee! (to Bender) You're mine Bender...for two months I gotcha!  I gotcha! 
BENDER What can I say?  I'm thrilled! 
VERNON Oh, I'm sure that's exactly what you want these people to believe.  You know something, Bender?  You ought to spend a little more time trying to do something with yourself and a little less time trying to impress people.  You might be better off. (to everyone) Alright, that's it!  I'm going to be right outside those doors.  The next time I hafta come in here...I'm cracking skulls!  (Bender mouths “I’m cracking skulls”) 
Vernon leaves and closes the door.  A musical riff builds to a climax as Bender screams. 
BENDER (screams) Fuck you! 
We see the clock, it reads a quarter to eight. 
We see Bender, lighting his shoe on fire and lighting a cigarette with his shoe. 
We see Claire thinking. 
We see Brian playing with his balls. 
We see Andrew playing with his sweatshirt. 
We see Allison pulling a string around her finger and making it turn purple. 
We see Bender put the flames on his shoe out.  He then plays air guitar. 
We see Allison drawing. 
We see Andrew playing paper football.  He cheers silently. 
Allison shakes dandruff from her hair onto her picture. 
We see everyone fall asleep. CUT TO: 
13. INT. LIBRARY - DAY 
Later. 
Vernon is standing there staring at the sleeping kids. 
VERNON Wake up!  Who has to go to the lavatory? 
Everyone raises their hands. CUT TO: 
14. INT. LIBRARY - DAY 
ALLISON (loudly) Ha!!! 
Everyone looks at her shocked.  Allison blows her hair out of her eyes and grins. 
CLAIRE Shut up! 
ANDREW You're just feeling sorry for yourself... 
CLAIRE Yeah, well if I didn't nobody else would. 
ANDREW Aw...you're breaking my heart... 
BENDER Sporto... 
ANDREW What? 
Bender jumps down and goes next to Andrew. 
BENDER You get along with your parents? 
ANDREW Well if I say yes, I'm an idiot, right? 
BENDER You're an idiot anyway...But if you say you get along with your parents well you're a liar too! 
Bender turns and walks away from him.  Andrew follows and pushes Bender. 
ANDREW You know something, man...If we weren't in school right now, I'd waste you! 
Bender points his middle finger at the floor. 
BENDER Can you hear this?  Want me to turn it up? 
Bender flips his hand around so he is now giving Andrew the bird. 
Brian comes over and puts a hand on each of the guy's shoulders. 
BRIAN Hey fellas, I mean... 
Andrew pushes away from Brian. 
BRIAN ...I don't like my parents either, I don't...I don't get along with them...their idea of parental compassion is just, you know, wacko! 
Bender turns to Brian. 
BENDER Dork... 
BRIAN Yeah? 
BENDER You are a parent's wet dream, okay? 
Bender starts to walk away. 
BRIAN Well that's a problem! 
BENDER Look, I can see you getting all bunged up for them making you wear these kinda clothes.  But face it, you're a Neo-Maxi-Zoom-Dweebie! What would you be doing if you weren't out making yourself a better citizen? 
ANDREW Why do you have to insult everybody? 
BENDER I'm being honest, asshole!  I would expect you...to know the difference! 
ANDREW I said leave her alone! 
BENDER You gonna make me? 
ANDREW Yeah... 
Bender walks over to where Andrew is standing. 
BENDER You and how many of your friends? 
ANDREW Just me, just you and me.  Two hits. Me hitting you, you hitting the floor!  Anytime you're ready, pal! 
Bender goes to hit him but Andrew gets Bender down on the ground with a wrestling move. 
BENDER I don't wanna get into to this with you man... 
Andrew gets up. 
ANDREW Why not? 
Bender gets up. 
BENDER 'Cause I'd kill you...It's real simple. I'd kill you and your fucking parents would sue me and it would be a big mess and I don't care enough about you to bother. 
ANDREW Chicken shit... 
Andrew turns and walks away.  Bender takes out a switchblade and opens it. 
He stabs the switchblade into a chair. 
ANDREW Let's end this right now.  You don't talk to her...you don't look at her and you don't even think about her! You understand me? 
BENDER I'm trying to help her!. 
We see the janitor, CARL come into the room. 
CARL Brian, how you doing? 
BENDER Your dad works here? 
Brian is embarrassed. 
BENDER Uh, Carl? 
CARL What? 
BENDER Can I ask you a question? 
CARL Sure... 
BENDER How does one become a janitor? 
CARL You wanna be a janitor? 
BENDER No I just wanna know how one becomes a janitor because Andrew here, is very interested in persuing a career in the custodial arts... 
CARL Oh, really?  You guys think I'm just some untouchable peasant?  Peon? Huh?  Maybe so, but following a broom around after shitheads like you for the past eight years I've learned a couple of things...I look through your letters, I look through your lockers...I listen to your conversations, you don't know that but I do...I am the eyes and ears of this institution my friends.  By the way, that clock's twenty minutes fast! 
Everyone groans.  Bender smiles. 
Allison doesn't answer. 
ANDREW What do you drink? 
Allison still doesn't answer. 
ANDREW Okay...forget I asked... 
Allison waits for two beats and then speaks. 
ALLISON Vodka... 
ANDREW Vodka?  When do you drink vodka? 
ALLISON Whenever... 
ANDREW A lot? 
Allison smiles. 
ALLISON Tons... 
ANDREW Is that why you're here today? 
Allison doesn't answer. 
ANDREW Why are you here? 
Allison snaps back. 
ALLISON Why are you here? 
They stop walking and Andrew leans against the wall. 
ANDREW Um, I'm here today...because uh, because my coach and my father don't want me to blow my ride.  See I get treated differently because uh, Coach thinks I'm a winner.  So does my old man.  I'm not a winner because I wanna be one... I'm a winner because I got strength and speed.  Kinda like a race horse. That's about how involved I am in what's happening to me. 
ALLISON Yeah?  That's very interesting. Now why don't you tell me why you're really in here. 
ANDREW Forget it! CUT TO: 
17. INT. LIBRARY - DAY 
Claire and Bender and Brian are all sitting around waiting for the Cokes. 
BENDER Claire...you wanna see a picture of a guy with elephantitus of the nuts? It's pretty tasty... 
CLAIRE No thank you... 
BENDER How do you think he rides a bike? 
Claire rolls her eyes and turns away in disgust. 
BENDER Oh, Claire...would you ever consider dating a guy like this? 
CLAIRE Can't you just leave me alone? 
BENDER I mean if he had a great personality and was a good dancer and had a cool car...Although you'd probably have to ride in the back seat 'cause his nuts would ride shotgun. 
CLAIRE You know what I wish I was doing? 
BENDER Well Brian, it doesn't sound like you're doing any business... 
CLAIRE I think it's okay for a guy to be a virgin... 
Bender looks suprised. 
BRIAN You do? 
Claire smiles and nods. CUT TO: 
18.  INT. LIBRARY - DAY 
Later. 
Everybody has lunches now. 
Claire begins to take hers out of a small shopping bag. 
BENDER What's in there? 
CLAIRE Guess, where's your lunch? 
BENDER You're wearing it... 
CLAIRE You're nauseating... 
Bender grabs a Coke and tosses it over to Allison who catches it without even looking up. 
Bender then watches Claire set up a sushi platter. 
BENDER What's that? 
CLAIRE Sushi... 
BENDER Sushi? 
CLAIRE Rice, uh, raw fish and seaweed. 
BENDER You won't accept a guys tongue in your mouth and you're gonna eat that? 
CLAIRE Can I eat? 
BENDER I don't know...give it a try... 
We now watch Andrew take a couple sandwiches out of his bag, a bag of potato chips, an apple, a banana, a bag of cookies and a carton of milk. 
Allison opens her Coke and it fizzes over.  She loudly slurps it up off the table and her fingers. 
Andrew sees Bender looking at him. 
ANDREW What's your problem? 
Allison opens her sandwich and and tosses the meat up. It lands on the sculpture above. 
She opens some pixie stix and pours the sugar on the sandwich and then puts Cap'n Crunch on top of that. She crushes the sandwich together and loudly eats it. 
Bender goes over and sits by Brian, Bender takes Brian's bag lunch. 
BENDER What're we having? 
BENDER Do you believe this?  Huh?  It's about the size of a cigar...Do I stutter?  You see, this is what you get in my house when you spill paint in the garage. 
Bender begins to walk away. 
BENDER See I don't think that I need to sit here with you fuckin' dildos anymore! 
Bender walks over to a map table and throws all the maps on the floor.  He climbs up on top of the table and then up to the second floor balcony. 
CLAIRE (to Andrew) You shouldn't have said that! 
ANDREW How would I know, I mean he lies about everything anyway! CUT TO: 
19. INT. VERNON'S OFFICE - DAY 
Vernon puts an orange in his mouth and then attempts to pour coffee out of his thermos.  The top comes off and the coffee goes all over his desk. 
VERNON Oh, shit! CUT TO: 
20. INT. HALLWAY - DAY 
Vernon walks into the hallway, talking to himself. 
VERNON Coffee...looks like they scrape it off the bottom of the Mississippi river.  Everything's polluted, everything's polluted...the coffee. 
Bender comes out of the library doors followed bye veryone else. 
Bender and Claire are walking next to each other. Brian and Andrew are walking next to each other and at the end of the line, Allison is following. 
CLAIRE (to Bender) How do you know where Vernon went? 
BENDER I don't... 
CLAIRE Well then, how do you know when he'll be back? 
BENDER I don't...being bad feels pretty good, huh? 
BRIAN (to Andrew) What's the point in going to Bender's locker? 
ANDREW Beats me... 
BRIAN This is so stupid...Why do you think, why are we risking getting caught? 
ANDREW I dunno... 
BRIAN So then what are we doing? 
ANDREW You ask me one more question and I'm beating the shit out of you! 
BRIAN Sorry... 
Bender opens his locker. 
ANDREW Slob! 
BENDER My maid's on vacation. 
Bender pulls out a bag of marijuana. 
BRIAN Drugs... 
Bender runs away singing loudly.  “I wanna be an airborne ranger...” 
We see Vernon hear Bender. 
The rest of them run. 
VERNON That son of a bitch! 
We see Vernon looking for Bender until he finds him in the gym. 
Bender is going up for a basket. 
BENDER Three...two...one! 
He dunks the ball.  Vernon enters. 
VERNON Bender!  Bender!  Bender!  What is this?  What are you doing here, what is this? 
BENDER Oh, hi! 
VERNON Out!  That's it Bender!  Out, it's over! 
BENDER Don't you wanna hear my excuse? 
VERNON Out! 
BENDER I'm thinking of trying out for a scholarship. 
VERNON Gimmie the ball, Bender. 
Bender fakes the ball at Vernon.  He then sets the ball down and rolls it at Vernon who kicks it back at him. 
They leave. CUT TO: 
21. INT. LIBRARY - DAY 
The rest of the kids are all sitting back in their seats when Bender and Vernon enter.  Vernon pushes Bender. 
VERNON Get your stuff, let's go! (to everyone) Mr. Wiseguy here has taken it upon himself to go to the gymnasium.  I'm sorry to inform you, you're going to be without his services for the rest of the day. 
BENDER (to Vernon) B-O-O H-O-O! 
VERNON Everything's a big joke, huh Bender? The false alarm you pulled, Friday, false alarms are really funny, aren't they...What if your home, what if your family... (a beat) ...what if your dope was on fire? 
BENDER Impossible, sir...It's in Johnson's underwear... 
Andrew laughs. 
VERNON (to Andrew) You think he's funny?  You think this is cute?  You think he's bitchin', is that it?  Lemme tell you something.  Look at him, he's a bum. (to everybody) You wanna see something funny?  You go visit John Bender in five years! You'll see how God damned funny he is! (to Bender) What's the matter, John?  You gonna cry?  Let's go... 
Vernon grabs Bender's shoulder. 
BENDER Hey keep your fuckin' hands off me! I expect better manners from you, Dick! 
Bender takes his sunglasses out of his pocket and lays them in front of Andrew. 
BENDER For better hallway vision! 
Bender leaves but not before pushing stuff over on the way. CUT TO: 
BRIAN Andy...you wanna get in on this? Allison here says, she wants to run away, because her home life is unsatisfying... 
ANDREW Well everyone's home lives are un- satisfying...If it wasn't, people would live with there parents forever... 
BRIAN Yeah, yeah I understand.  But I think that her's goes beyond, you know, what guys like you and me... consider normal unsatisfying... 
ALLISON Nevermind...forget it, everything's cool! 
Allison starts putting everything back in her purse. 
ANDREW What's the deal? 
ALLISON No!  There's no deal, Sporto. Forget it, leave me alone. 
ANDREW Wait a minute, now you're carrying all that crap around in your purse. Either you really wanna run away or you want people to think you wanna run away. 
ALLISON Eat shit! 
Allison gets up and walks away. 
BRIAN The girl is an island, with herself. Okay? 
Andrew gets up and goes after her. 
ANDREW Hi, you wanna talk? 
ALLISON No! 
ANDREW Why not? 
ALLISON Go away... 
ANDREW Where do you want me to go? 
ALLISON GO away! 
Andrew turns away and Allison starts to cry. 
ALLISON You have problems... 
ANDREW Oh, I have problems? 
ALLISON You do everything everybody ever tells you to do, that is a problem! 
ANDREW Okay, fine...but I didn't dump my purse out on the couch and invite people into my problems...Did I? So what's wrong?  What is it?  Is is bad?  Real bad?  Parents? 
Allison is silently crying. 
ALLISON Yeah... 
Andrew nods. 
ANDREW What do they do to you? 
ALLISON They ignore me... 
ANDREW Yeah...yeah... 
They both are crying silently. CUT TO: 
They all look at her. 
ALLISON I'll do anything sexual, I don't need a million dollars to do it either... 
CLAIRE You're lying... 
ALLISON I already have...I've done just about everything there is except a few things that are illegal...I'm a nymphomaniac! 
Claire rolls her eyes. 
CLAIRE Lie... 
BRIAN Are your parents aware of this? 
ALLISON The only person I told was my shrink... 
ANDREW And what'd he do when you told him? 
ALLISON He nailed me... 
CLAIRE Very nice... 
ALLISON I don't think that from a legal standpoint what he did can be construed as rape since I paid him. 
CLAIRE He's an adult! 
Allison is relishing this attention. 
ALLISON Yeah...he's married too! 
Claire notes her disgust. 
CLAIRE Do you have any idea how completely gross that is? 
ALLISON Well, the first few times... 
CLAIRE First few times?  You mean he did it more than once? 
ALLISON Sure... 
CLAIRE Are you crazy? 
BRIAN Obviously she's crazy if she's screwing her shrink... 
ALLISON (to Claire) Have you ever done it? 
CLAIRE I don't even have a psychiatrist... 
ALLISON Have you ever done it with a normal person? 
CLAIRE Now, didn't we already cover this? 
BENDER You never answered the question... 
CLAIRE Look, I'm not gonna discuss my private life with total strangers. 
ALLISON It's kind of a double-edged sword, isn't it? 
CLAIRE A what? 
BENDER Talk to us! 
ANDREW & BRIAN Come on, answer the question! 
BENDER It's easy, it's only one question! 
Claire silences all of them by screaming. 
CLAIRE (screaming) No!  I never did it! 
Silence for two beats. 
ALLISON I never did it either, I'm not a nymphomaniac...I'm a compulsive liar... 
CLAIRE You are such a bitch!  You did that on purpose just to fuck me over! 
ALLISON I would do it though...If you love someone it's okay... 
CLAIRE I can't believe you, you're so weird.  You don't say anything all day and then when you open your mouth...you unload all these tremendous lies all over me! 
ANDREW You're just pissed off because she got you to admit something you didn't want to admit to... 
CLAIRE Okay, fine, but that doesn't make it any less bizarre... 
ANDREW What's bizarre?  I mean we're all pretty bizarre!  Some of us are just better at hiding it, that's all. 
CLAIRE (to Andrew) How are you bizarre? 
Allison decides to field that question. 
ALLISON He can't think for himself... 
ANDREW She's right...do you guys know what, uh, what I did to get in here?  I taped Larry Lester's buns together. 
Claire laughs. 
BRIAN (to Andrew) That was you? 
ANDREW (to Brian) Yeah, you know him? 
BRIAN Yeah, I know him... 
ANDREW Well then you know how hairy he is, right?  Well, when they pulled the tape off, most of his hair came off and some, some skin too... 
CLAIRE Oh my God... 
ANDREW And the bizarre thing is, is that I did it for my old man...I tortured this poor kid, because I wanted him to think that I was cool. He's always going off about, you know, when he was in school...all the wild things he used to do.  And I got the feeling that he was disappointed that I never cut loose on anyone, right...So, I'm...I'm sitting in the locker room, and I'm taping up my knee.  And Larry's undressing a couple lockers down from me.  Yeah...he's kinda... he's kinda skinny, weak.  And I started thinking about my father, and his attitude about weakness. And the next thing I knew, I uh, I jumped on top of him and started wailing on him...And my friends, they just laughed and cheered me on. And afterwards, when I was sittin' in Vernon's office, all I could think about was Larry's father. And Larry havin' to go home and...and explain what happened to him.  And the humiliation...fucking humiliation he mustuv felt.  It mustuv been unreal...I mean, (he's crying) I mean, how do you apologize for something like that?  There's no way...it's all because of me and my old man.  Oh God, I fucking hate him!  He's like this...he's like this mindless machine that I can't even relate to anymore..."Andrew, you've got to be number one!  I won't tolerate any losers in this family...Your intensity is for shit! Win.  Win!  WIN!!!"  You son of a bitch!  You know, sometimes, I wish my knee would give...and I wouldn't be able to wrestle anymore.  And he could forget all about me... 
BENDER I think your old man and my old man should get together and go bowling. 
Andrew laughs briefly. 
BRIAN It's like me, you know, with my grades...like, when I, when I step outside myself kinda, and when I, when I look in at myself you know?  And I see me and I don't like what I see, I really don't. 
CLAIRE What's wrong with you?  Why don't you like yourself? 
BRIAN 'Cause I'm stupid...'cause I'm failing shop.  See we had this assignment, to make this ceramic elephant, and um...and we had eight weeks to do it and we're s'posed ta, and it was like a lamp, and when you pull the trunk the light was s'posed to go on...my light didn't go on, I got a F on it.  Never got a F in my life... When I signed up, you know, for the course I mean.  I thought I was playing it real smart, you know. 'Cause I thought, I'll take shop, it'll be such an easy way to maintain my grade point average... 
BENDER Why'd you think it'd be easy? 
ANDREW You fucking prick! 
Bender turns to Andrew.  As he speaks, we can see his words hitting home. 
BENDER What do you care what I think, anyway?  I don't even count, right? I could disappear forever and it wouldn't make any difference...I may as well not even exist at this school, remember? (he turns to Claire) And you...don't like me anyway! 
CLAIRE You know, I have just as many feelings as you do and it hurts just as much when somebody steps all over them! 
BENDER God, you're so pathetic! (furious) Don't you ever...ever!  Compare yourself to me!  Okay?  You got everything, and I got shit!  Fuckin' Rapunzel, right?  School would probably fucking shut down if you didn't show up!  "Queenie isn't here!"  I like those earrings Claire. 
CLAIRE (quietly) Shut up... 
BENDER Are those real diamonds, Claire? 
CLAIRE (angry) Shut up! 
BENDER                       CLAIRE I bet they are...did you work, for the money               Shut... for those earrings?                   Your mouth! 
BENDER Or did your daddy buy those? 
CLAIRE (furious) Shut up! 
Claire starts crying. 
BENDER I bet he bought those for you!  I bet those are a Christmas gift! Right?  You know what I got for Christmas this year?  It was a banner fuckin' year at the old Bender family!  I got a carton of cigarettes.  The old man grabbed me and said "Hey!  Smoke up Johnny!" Okay, so go home'n cry to your daddy, don't cry here, okay? 
There are a few beats. 
ANDREW My God, are we gonna be like our parents? 
CLAIRE Not me...ever... 
ALLISON It's unavoidable, it just happens. 
CLAIRE What happens? 
ALLISON When you grow up, your heart dies. 
BENDER Who cares? 
Allison is on the verge of tears herself. 
ALLISON I care... 
BRIAN Um, I was just thinking, I mean.  I know it's kind of a weird time, but I was just wondering, um, what is gonna happen to us on Monday?  When we're all together again?  I mean I consider you guys my friends, I'm not wrong, am I? 
ANDREW No... 
BRIAN So, so on Monday...what happens? 
CLAIRE Are we still friends, you mean? If we're friends now, that is? 
BRIAN Yeah... 
CLAIRE Do you want the truth? 
BRIAN Yeah, I want the truth... 
CLAIRE I don't think so... 
Brian hides his head in his arm because he is crying. 
BRIAN Know why I'm here today?  Do you? I'm here because Mr. Ryan found a gun in the locker... 
ANDREW Why'd you have a gun in your locker? 
BRIAN I tried.  You pull the fuckin' trunk on it and the light's s'posed to go on...and it didn't go on, I mean, I... 
ANDREW What's the gun for Brian? 
BRIAN Just forget it... 
ANDREW You brought it up, man! 
BRIAN I can't have an F, I can't have it and I know my parents can't have it! Even if I aced the rest of the semester, I'm still only a B.  And everything's ruined for me! 
CLAIRE (with pity) Oh Brian... 
Brian bashes a chair over. 
BRIAN So I considered my options, you know? 
CLAIRE No!  Killing yourself is not an option! 
BRIAN Well I didn't do it, did I?  No, I don't think so! 
ALLISON It was a hand gun? 
BRIAN No, it was a flare gun, went off in my locker. 
ANDREW Really? 
Andrew starts to laugh. 
BRIAN It's not funny... 
They all start to laugh, including Brian. 
BRIAN Yes it is...fuckin' elephant was destroyed! 
ALLISON You wanna know what I did to get in here?  Nothing...I didn't have anything better to do. 
Everyone laughs. 
ALLISON You're laughing at me... 
ANDREW No! 
Allison starts to laugh too. 
ALLISON Yeah you are! CUT TO: 
31. INT. LIBRARY - DAY 
Later. 
We see Brian putting a record on and then music starts. 
We see them all dancing.  This goes on for the duration of the song. CUT TO: 
CLAIRE You know you really do look a lot better without all that black shit on your eyes... 
ALLISON Hey...I like that black shit... 
CLAIRE This looks a lot better...look up. 
We see Brian thinking about what he's going to write. 
We see Andrew just thinking. 
We see Allison and Claire again.  Claire is still putting make-up on Allison. 
ALLISON Please, why're you being so nice to me? 
CLAIRE 'Cause you're letting me. 
We see Brian begin to write. 
We see Andrew, still deep in thought. CUT TO: 
34. INT. CLOSET - DAY 
We see Bender, in the closet once again.  Claire opens the door and enters. 
BENDER You lost? 
Claire stares at him. 
Bender smiles. 
Claire smiles. CUT TO: 
35. INT. LIBRARY - DAY 
Brian is busily preparing the essay. 
Andrew looks up and sees the newly made over Allison and is in awe. 
Allison walks towards him and stops when she notices Brian staring at her with his mouth open. 
She glares at him. 
BRIAN Cool! 
ALLISON (smiling) Thank you! CUT TO: 
36. INT. CLOSET - DAY 
Claire kisses Bender, then she breaks the kiss. 
BENDER Why'd you do that? 
CLAIRE 'Cause I knew you wouldn't. 
BENDER You know how you said before, how your parents used you to get back at each other...wouldn't I be outstanding in that capacity? 
CLAIRE Were you really disgusted about what I did with my lipstick? 
BENDER Truth? 
