BRICK 
Written by 
Rian Johnson 
SUPER MAIN TITLES 
Over a grimy concrete wall creeping by. We emerge from... 
EXT. RUNOFF TUNNEL - EARLY MORNING 
A gaping hole in the concrete side of a freeway. On the embankment beside the hole BRENDAN FRYE squats, shoulders hunched. His dark eyes behind thin glasses watch the shallow stream of water which flows into the tunnel. 
THE WATER 
not more than six inches deep. Just beneath the surface a young woman's pale blue arm in gaudy bracelets bats against the edge of her body like a docked boat. A pebble plinks into the water beside it.1 
TITLE CARD OVER BLACK:         "2 DAYS PREVIOUS" INT. LOCKER CAGE - DAY 
A single locker. That same arm, bracelets and all, slips a note through the slats, then leaves quickly. 
As the cage empties a lone figure slumps to the locker. Opens it. The note falls to his feet. 
The figure is Brendan. He unfolds the note (folded in a triangle) -- "12:30 PICO & ALEXANDER". 
A STREET SIGN 
Pico and Alexander.2 
A WRIST WATCH 12:43.   Brendan looks up from the watch. 
EXT. STREET CORNER - DAY 
He sits on the curb of a wide suburban street, eats lunch from a brown bag and watches a phone booth on the corner. He shows no surprise when it begins to ring. Brendan goes to the phone and puts the receiver to his ear. Silence for a moment, then a thin female voice from the phone. 
Originally Dode was later revealed to have been hiding above the tunnel. The street names were changed in production to match existing streets (we couldn't afford to create custom street signs.) 
VOICE (over phone) Brendan? 
BRENDAN Emily? 
EMILY (weakly) Yeah. How's things? 
BRENDAN (slow, deliberate) Status quo. 
EMILY Yeah? 
BRENDAN Uh huh. 
EMILY That's good. 
Her voice thins to a high, strained breath. She is crying. 
BRENDAN What's going on, Em? 
EMILY (through strained crying) It's good to see you, Brendan. 
Brendan's eyes glance around the surrounding street. Emily is crying again. 
EMILY (CONT'D) (cont'd) It's been some time. 
BRENDAN Two months. 
EMILY Yeah. I didn't even know your locker. I had to ask Brain. 
More crying noises. 
BRENDAN Em, why don't we meet somewhere? 
EMILY I can't. 
BRENDAN Why not? 
EMILY I screwed up real bad. I really screwed up. 
BRENDAN Screwed up how? 
THE BRAIN Know him? 
BRENDAN By sight. 
THE BRAIN I won't argue then. Anyway Em tagged after them for a bit, but it didn't work. So she picked her way down the food chain. Last I seen she was with whasshername, that drama vamp. Small time dealer, augh, the evil one, the one you dated- 
BRENDAN Kara. 
THE BRAIN That's my bus. 
BRENDAN You know her locker number? 
THE BRAIN Kara's? 
BRENDAN Em's. 
THE BRAIN 
BRENDAN Thanks Brain. Keep your specs on, find me if she shows. 
THE BRAIN Sure. 
The Brain trots off. In the distance Brad and Laura laugh, and he kisses her. Her hair blows in the wind. 
EXT. LOCKER CAGE - DAY 
Empty. Locker 239 is open, its door swinging gently in the wind. 
EXT. BACK OF GYM - DAY 
Brendan sits against the massive building, flipping through loose papers. He finds two photographs, one of Emily hugging him, the other of Emily with a beautiful sharp-eyed girl at a party, drinks in hand. 
Sorting more papers, he finds a red card with a sequined mask on the front. The bottom edge has been torn off. 
EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY Sixth period has broke. Masses of students pile into busses. 
EXT. SCHOOL THEATER - DAY 
A huge chunk of brown building. Brendan strides towards it. 
INT. SCHOOL THEATER - CONTINUOUS 
Drama people sit on the floor facing the stage. Brendan steps behind one, the sharp-eyed girl from the picture. She holds a freshman boy's head in her lap. Pets it like a dog. 
She looks back at Brendan, her face in shadow. 
GIRL (through a mocking smile) Hello, Brendan. 
BRENDAN Kara. 
KARA Come to see the show? Kisses the freshman's forehead, purring. 
BRENDAN No, I didn't. (nudges the freshman with his toe) Lapdog, blow. 
The freshman sits up, looks to Kara like a spooked puppy. 
KARA (to the lapdog) Stay. (to Brendan) Don't be mean. 
BRENDAN I'm all friendly. (to the lapdog) Watch your head, kid - that thing bites. 
The dog pops up again. Kara pulls him down and nuzzles his ear. 
BRENDAN (CONT'D) (cont'd) I need words. KARA I'm listening. 
BRENDAN About Emily Kostich. 
She stops nuzzling a little too quickly. 
KARA (to the dog) Get me my purse. (he goes) Hurry! 
He breaks into a trot. Kara smiles at Brendan. 
BRENDAN Still picking your teeth with freshmen? 
KARA You were a freshman once. 
She slides her fingers up his arm. He growls and pushes them away. 
LAURA'S VOICE I know everyone and I've got all the time in the world. 
BRENDAN Folly of youth. Ask whose invitation I've got. 
LAURA'S VOICE (slightly) What you said. 
BRENDAN Emily Kostich. 
A beat. 
LAURA'S VOICE 15 Bush street, up in Stockton Cove. Buzz 42 at the gate. Nine o'clock. But who- 
Brendan hangs up. He folds his hands under his chin and stares at the phone, perfectly still. The clock on his desk says 4:53. DISSOLVE TO: 
Brendan at his desk, tapping away at Tetris. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
The desk is empty, Tetris paused. A shower runs behind an ajar door in the background. 
EXT. STOCKTON COVE GATE - NIGHT 
An imposing private community gate. Brendan coasts up on his bike and ditches it in the bushes. He checks the call box directory: "42 -- DANNON" 
Using the call box as a hand hold he hops the gate and walks briskly up the street. 
EXT. STOCKTON COVE STREET - NIGHT 
Shiny cars line the curb. Party noises come from an upscale two story house. Brendan takes a short breath, then strides up to the front door. 
INT. LIVING ROOM 
Large and clean, with a two story ceiling and a railed staircase at one end. Fifteen or twenty clean people, some in costumes, mill about in cliques. Brendan comes in as if he doesn't mind who sees him coming in. He gets a couple odd stares, but no one stops him. 
With non obtrusive confidence he cuts through the crowd to the beer keg in back and draws half a cup. 
INT. PARLOUR - SAME 
Richly adorned, crowded, lit with bright pools of light. Brendan drifts in and stands in the back, deep in shadow. 
The music comes from a baby grand piano set against one wall. Laura Dannon leans against it. She wears a red kimono, and is striking against the velvet black piano. Laura's kid sister, 11 years old with glasses, sits at the piano playing "All I do is Dream of You". 
Laura sings, lovely and soft but with strength.1 
Brendan watches from the back, his face obscured in shadow, but his eyes gleam. Through the darkened window behind him a match flares up, and someone standing outside lights a cigarette. 
Laura finishes the song. The room applauds, and she ruffles her kid sister's hair. 
Brendan ducks out, and into 
By the time we got around to production this had changed to "Someone to Watch Over Me," but the publishing rights proved too expensive (i.e. not free.) We chose the Gilbert & Sullivan song, which besides being lovely was also in the public domain (i.e. free.) 
INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME 
Brad Bramish, the jock who was kissing Laura in the parking lot, sits slouched on the couch in a dense crowd. He holds a cup and speaks much too loudly to a guy named Biff at his elbow. 
BRAD If the coach wants to play me I'll play, but I can't put my best game in if I've got to worry about whether I'm going to be in there. Halftime last game, coach is pissed I ran it on a pass play, out on the field he says to me 'you gotta think about the team and you gotta' you know and 'if you run that ball again you're out', and I said to him you gotta let me play! I'm out there, let me play, and he's saying 'no you're out' and I kept saying 'Let me play! Let me play! Let me play!', just right in his face- 
BIFF He was! 
BRAD Just 'Let me play! Let me play! Let me play!' 'No you gotta' 'No, let me play! Let me play! Let me play!' 
Brad hunches forward, his face swollen purple, yelling that over and over. Tom steps in front of Brendan, blocking his line of sight. 
Brendan scans the rest of the room. His eyes catch on Laura, leaning against a divan. Her bright, sharp eyes cut through the room, straight into Brendan. He wags his eyebrows at her. 
She looks away quickly. Brendan turns back to Brad, still shouting 'let me play'. Tom stands between them. 
BRENDAN Tom! 
Brad falls silent. Most of the room follows suit. Tom turns around. Brendan smiles good naturedly. 
BRENDAN (cont'd) Could you step aside, please? I'm trying to follow Brad's story, and it's difficult when I can't see his face. 
The room watches Brendan. Tom mumbles something and steps aside. Brad stares at Brendan stupidly. Brendan flashes a dopey grin and tips his glass. 
BRAD (stumbles) He doesn't give me a play to make, what can I do, you know? 
BRENDAN I saw her yesterday. 
LAURA Nearly nobody's seen her. So what did she tell you? 
BRENDAN (winces) Score 0 for finesse. 
LAURA Listen, you're scratching at the wrong door. I wasn't with Emily enough to know details of what she was in, I just got wind of the downfall, and I didn't get any details of that, except that it was bad. So now that we're showing some cards... 
BRENDAN If you haven't got a finger in Em's troubles, why'd her name get me into your rather exclusive party? 
LAURA Keep up with me now. I don't know, but it sounded like you did, and a body's got a right to be curious. Now I'm not so sure. 
BRENDAN Well I'll put that body to bed. I don't know a damn thing about whatever troubles, and that works for me. I just want to find her. 
A long beat. Laura studies Brendan's face, then seems to come to a decision. 
LAURA Coffee and pie. 
The words hang in the air a moment. A look of recognition from Brendan. 
BRENDAN Coffee and pie oh my? 
LAURA And you didn't hear it from me. 
He sips his drink. A voice calls from the glass door. Another girl. Laura flashes Brendan a look and goes to her. They have quick, quiet words and the girl leaves. Laura turns back to Brendan. 
LAURA (CONT'D) (cont'd) Will you wait here for me? 
BRENDAN Sure. 
LAURA You'll stay right here and wait -- I'll be five minutes. 
BRENDAN Yes. 
The moment she leaves Brendan runs across the lawn and hops the fence, into the neighbor's yard. 
EXT. SIDE OF HOUSE 
Brendan runs to the edge of the neighboring house and peeks around. Laura comes out the front door, cuts across the lawn and sidewalk and trots out into the street. Brendan 
begins to follow, but a noise from behind the fence stops him - a match being struck. 
Brendan creeps towards the fence and peers through a splintered hole. 
BRENDAN'S POV - THROUGH THE FENCE 
A brightly lit window in the side of Brad's house, and through the window the party. 
A dark figure wearing a long coat and broad rimmed hat, all inky black. The figure smokes a cigarette and watches the party, absently stroking his cheek. 
Brendan steps back - SNAP!   A twig. 
The figure freezes. Then, making no noise at all, it spins to face Brendan, a towering black form against the window. 
The glowing cigarette falls to the grass. A metallic glint, and a clicking sound not unlike a gun. 
Brendan throws himself backwards onto the grass. A beat. 
Through the hole the black of the figure's cloak whips away. 
Brendan hesitates, then hops the fence. 
EXT. SIDE OF BRAD'S HOUSE - SAME 
Brendan lands on his feet. No black figure to be found. 
The cigarette still smolders on the ground. Hand rolled, plain paper. 
Brendan gazes through the window, catching his breath. Then he breaks the trance and creeps towards the street. 
EXT. FRONT LAWN - NIGHT 
Peeking around the house, Brendan sees Laura cut across the lawn and trot into the street. Using parked cars as cover, Brendan follows. 
EXT. STREET 
Between cars, Brendan sees a lanky kid in baggy jeans and engineer boots with a clean shaven head leaning against a black Mustang. Laura goes to him and speaks quickly. 
STONER 1 (O.S.) Put him down, man! 
DODE Deal with whatever this ain't about and drop it. 
BIG STONER (to Brendan) Nothing more here, bra. 
BRENDAN Tell Emily I want to see her. Tell her if she still wants my help or not that's her business, but I want to hear it straight from her. 
DODE She don't - 
Brendan walks away. 
BRENDAN Today. She knows where I eat lunch. 
When Brendan is a safe distance away the biggest stoner shouts with conviction 
BIG STONER And stay out, punk! 
EXT. SIDEWALK - CONTINUOUS 
Brendan hides behind a tall clump of bushes. 
A moment later Dode hustles away from Carrows. Brendan follows. 
EXT. STREET - EARLY MORNING 
The sun is rising as Brendan tails Dode through the twisty suburban streets. 
Brendan takes cover as Dode stops by a white hatchback. 
A girl gets out of the car and embraces Dode. Her wrist is adorned with the same cheap plastic bracelets as the dead girl's arm. Dode speaks quickly to her, she nods and speaks back. He hands her a slip of paper, which she tucks into a brightly colored address book and slips in her jacket pocket. They embrace again, Dode walks off and the girl gets in her car. 
Brendan stumbles after the car, but it is quickly gone. He watches it go, then follows Dode back towards school. 
EXT. SCHOOL THEATER - MORNING 
Dode slumps into the front door of the brown building. Brendan watches him from a distance, eyes thoughtful. After a beat he turns and walks off into the thickening crowds of students. 
FADE OUT: 
FADE UP 
EXT. BACK OF SCHOOL - MIDDAY 
Brendan eats lunch alone on a concrete wall beside a long, empty utility road behind the school. 
LATER 
Reclining on the wall, reading "Lord of the Flies". He raises his eyes, and sits up suddenly. 
Off in the distance on the utility road a tiny figure approaches, stumbling. Brendan jumps and hits the ground running towards the figure. 
Meet the girl with cheap bracelets, the girl Dode spoke to, the dead girl, Emily. He catches her just as she stumbles and falls and carries her into the shade of a covered hallway. 
EXT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS 
Emily and Brendan sit in silence. She is very pretty, but she looks bad. Too much makeup, not enough sleep. She sniffles, speaks to her shoes. 
EMILY I must have sounded pretty crazy on the phone. Yesterday. 
She taps her shoes together lightly, eyes fixed on them. 
EMILY (cont'd) It was dumb, I got paranoid over a really stupid thing. I was high, I went crazy for a little bit, but now you have to forget about it. Please. That's how you can help me now, forget about it. 
She turns her weak eyes to Brendan for the first time.     His stare is unwavering, searching. She pushes on. 
EMILY (cont'd) Brendan, I know you're mad at all these people, cause you think I went away from you and went to them. But you've got to start seeing it as my decision, stop being angry because where I want to be at's different from where you wanna be at. 
BRENDAN (angry) Who fed you that line, Em? 
She looks back at her shoes. 
EMILY And stop picking on Dode. He's a good guy. 
BRENDAN The Carrows rat? 
EMILY He's a good friend. 
Sparsely furnished. Brendan plays Tetris on his computer, staring off into space. His mom's voice calls "Good night" and the hallway light turns off. 
LATER 
10:30 by the clock radio on Brendan's nightstand. The slip of paper rests beside it. Brendan lies in bed, staring at the symbol on the paper. His eyes tense. 
THE SYMBOL 
Growing larger, burning with a searing intensity, then folding into darkness. Water rushes overhead, over concrete, concrete with a hole in it -- the runoff tunnel, just for an instant, then back underwater, screaming. Brendan choking, screaming, plunging upwards. A woman with no face falls from the darkness and kisses him, her long hair sweeping around him then pulling away. As the last strands slide off his face he wakes up with a start. 
The clock says 3:46. Brendan drips with sweat, breathing raggedly. He takes the paper and a pencil from the nightstand and shades the symbol to look like this: 
FLASH CUT - The runoff tunnel, lining up perfectly with the now shaded symbol. 
BACK TO BRENDAN 
His eyes turn uneasy as he removes his glasses and clicks off the light. 
EXT. BRENDAN'S HOUSE - DAWN 
Brendan walks off into the hazy pre-dawn light. 
EXT. EDGE OF RAVINE 
Brendan stops at a high wall of weeds, listening to the low gurgle of moving water. Slowly, robotically he pushes through. 
EMILY'S BODY 
Face down, bobbing gently in shallow water. Bluish white. Red foam clings to her. 
EXT. RUNOFF TUNNEL 
Silently, as if lowered by a string Brendan sinks down, squatting in the mud. His lungs empty in one choppy breath. He pulls his glasses off sluggishly. 
EMILY'S ARM 
Lifeless, pale. 
BRENDAN'S FACE 
A contorted, frozen mask, eyes wet. 
EMILY'S HAIR 
Stringy, flowing gently in the water. 
BRENDAN'S EYES 
Dazed, drifting... then suddenly snapping to attention. 
A noise. From the tunnel. 
Brendan freezes. The inky blackness of the tunnel mouth opens like a vacuum... silent, but then - 
The scrape of a shoe against concrete, then echoing footsteps running away. 
Brendan springs like a cat, sprinting into the tunnel. 
INT. TUNNEL 
Nearly pitch black. 2 sets of running footfalls. Brendan is chasing, running full speed into the blackness, heart pounding - we almost don't notice that Brendan's are now the only footfalls. 
Brendan notices. He stops. Silence in the darkness, except for Brendan's breath... and someone near... 
SLAM! Brendan takes a fist in the cheek and goes down. An inky black figure steps from the shadows and kicks him in the stomach. Brendan curls on the ground, the figure over him. 
FIGURE (low whisper) Your little Em. 
The figure runs off. Brendan raises his head painfully - the figure is silhouetted briefly against the distant bright end of the tunnel, then is gone. 
EXT. RUNOFF TUNNEL - EARLY MORNING 
Emily's body is still there. Brendan crawls out of the tunnel and collapses in the shallow water, beside the body. He rests his head on his arm, eyes on Em's hair. 
EXT. CAMPUS - EARLY MORNING 
Cold and barren, nearly empty. Brendan limps across the barren lawns. 
Brendan puts on his glasses, stands to go. 
BRENDAN No, bulls would gum it. They'd flash their dusty standards at the wide-eyes and probably find some yegg to pin, probably even the right one. But they'd trample the real tracks and scare the real players back into their holes, and if we're doing this I want the whole story. No cops, not for a bit. 
THE BRAIN So what first? 
BRENDAN I don't know. Your mom still have the cell? 
THE BRAIN In her car. 
BRENDAN Borrow it for a few days, get me the number. (stands to go) Wait for my word, and cover for me first period. I'm going to be a little late. 
EXT. BASKETBALL FIELD - DAY 
A vast field of asphalt segmented by a dozen basketball courts outlined in cracked paint.1 Brendan trudges across it, his steps heavy. He stops and stands very still, staring at the ground for a beat then raising his eyes to 
THE HORIZON 
Flat, gray, pin straight. Brendan's voice starts speaking rapidly, confident and clear. 
This describes the location at my school that the "showdown" scenes were originally written for. Between when I wrote the script and when we shot it, however, the school expanded and built portable classrooms on the basketball field, and so we reluctantly moved these scenes to the football field. 
BRENDAN (O.S.) Yeah it was personal. Jerr spooked some decent gees and ran around some what was straight with him, but I'm nobody's bull runner. This wasn't a business sit. But yeah. I bulled him. Got in tight, partnered up and sent him over. 
PAN AROUND to reveal BRENDAN. He looks different, edgier, more alive, wearing different clothes and a thin goatee1. He keeps talking directly at us. 
BRENDAN (cont'd) I'd bull the lot of them, Em, I'd burn down the whole party if they tried to play you again. Jerr and whoever's next. I want to keep you safe. 
An ARM swings into frame, wearing cheap plastic bracelets and pale blue fingernail polish. It slaps Brendan hard in the face. He catches it. Emily wrenches her arm away and stumbles backwards onto the pavement. 
Brendan grabs her sleeve. She twists away. He grabs her shoulder, grabs her waist, she resists, and suddenly they are struggling with violent pent up intensity until with a shout she breaks away and falls to the ground. 
A beat.     Gulls cry in the distance. 
EMILY You can't keep me safe, Brendan. I'm in a bigger world now, and you can't hide me from it, and you can't beat it. Not if I don't want you to. 
Brendan's face looks lumpish, while Emily's is strong. She stands and walks off into the distance across the barren field. 
BRENDAN'S FACE 
Watching her go. It is back to present day, pale, clean shaven, sullen. His eyes are cold with resolve. 
EXT. RUNOFF TUNNEL - EARLY MORNING 
Brendan sloshes down into the water. Without delicacy he lifts Emily's body and pulls her back into the tunnel. 
INT. RUNOFF TUNNEL 
Which Joe would not even consider, thank god. 
Pitch back. Brendan lays the body down. Two beady eyes peer at him from the darkness - he freezes. The eyes hop forward - a gull. The two watch each other for a moment, then the gull squawks and flutters out the bright mouth of the tunnel. Brendan follows it without looking back at the body.1 
EXT. CROWDED HALLWAY - DAY 
Brendan and the Brain lean against a wall. The Brain slips him a piece of paper. 
THE BRAIN There's the cell number. 
BRENDAN Keep it on vibrate. 
THE BRAIN (pats his jacket pocket) Yeah. 
BRENDAN Better stop meeting me in the open too. I'm going to start getting visible, and I need you on the underneath. I'll call. 
THE BRAIN Trueman asked for you. Wants words in his office. 
BRENDAN I bet. Keep him off me - stonewall him, he won't bite, just keep him away from me. 
THE BRAIN I'll try. So what's first? 
BRENDAN Make Em's troubles mine. I'm going to throw a few words at you, tell me if they catch. Brick. 
THE BRAIN No. 
A very early draft held on the tunnel after Brendan left, and revealed a dark figure (Dode) creeping away from the top of the tunnel, causing the pebble described on page 1 to plink into the water. 
BRENDAN Or bad brick. 
THE BRAIN (on the phone) You didn't call. 
BRENDAN Sorry. Kara went home though, didn't she? THE BRAIN Yeah, but she stopped at a payphone and made two calls that she didn't want on her phone bill. 
BRENDAN Get the numbers? 
THE BRAIN No. Sorry. 
BRENDAN S'alright. Are me and Brad front page news? 
THE BRAIN All the buzz. You really do that? 
BRENDAN Yeah. 
THE BRAIN Why? Is Brad the Pin? 
BRENDAN Brad's a sap. I downed him on his field and his crew didn't bite. So now I know he's a sap and anyone who acts like he isn't is profiting by it. That's not why I roughed him, though. 
BRAIN For kicks? 
BRENDAN Economics. Brad's the school's biggest jake buyer, so if this Pin is behind all the selling, I just got his attention. Anyway, now's just shaking things out. Look, you know a kid around the burgh, lanky, short, shaved head, turns a black tang? 
THE BRAIN I told you before I don't know the car. Those types are a nickel a pound, but nobody I know that you don't. And Trueman again- 
BRENDAN Keep him off. And keep your specs on - I need to find that kid. 
THE BRAIN Okay. 
Brendan hangs up and turns sluggishly. 
A lanky kid with a short shaved head and engineer boots punches him in the face. 
Brendan hits the pavement. The lanky kid is over him in a split second, beating his face and body with short, heavy blows. 
Flashes of the lanky kid - a shiny scar shaped like a thin triangle runs down the side of his face. 
After a brief silent thrashing the kid walks off with several other blurry figures. A car peels out and roars off O.S. 
Brendan lies still. The class bell rings, very distant. Legs criss cross before his eyes, each blurring the world a bit more until it is completely smeared. 
FADE OUT. 
FADE IN: 
INT. OFFICE Brendan sits with an ice pack against his head in a tiny office. A man in his early thirties behind a wood colored 
desk and name plate, "GARY TRUEMAN, ASSISTANT VICE PRINCIPAL" plays with a pencil. 
TRUEMAN You didn't know this boy? 
BRENDAN No sir, never seen him. 
TRUEMAN And he just hit you? 
BRENDAN Like I said, he asked for my lunch money first. Good thing I brown bagged it. 
Trueman trains a good natured dubious eye on Brendan. 
TRUEMAN Alright Brendan. I've been looking to talk to you. 
Brendan doesn't react. 
TRUEMAN (cont'd) You've helped this office out before. 
BRENDAN No. I gave you Jerr to see him eaten, not to see you fed. 
TRUEMAN Fine, and well put. 
BRENDAN Accelerated English, Mrs. Kasprzyk. 
TRUEMAN Tough teacher? 
BRENDAN Tough but fair. 
TRUEMAN Mm. Anyway then, we know you're clean, and you've, despite your motives, you've been an asset to us. I think you're a good kid. BRENDAN Uh huh. 
TRUEMAN I want to run a couple names by you. 
The lanky shaved-head kid, whose name is Tugger.   Coming towards him fast. 
Brendan stands there for a moment, then lets the chunk fall to the ground. He casually leans against the car, removes his glasses, puts them in a hard case and puts the hard case in his pocket. 
Tugger hits him like a train and throws him across the pavement. Tug turns back to the car and takes out his keys. 
Brendan gets up and comes towards Tug, his face stiff. Tug turns and pops him once squarely in the mouth. Brendan falls to his knees. 
While Tug unlocks the door Brendan stands up woozily. Grunting, Tug spins and grabs Brendan's jacket, pushing him back while he slaps him hard in the face, back and forth, three times. When Tug lets go Brendan drops like a stone, catching himself on his hands and knees. The car door slams. 
The mustang drives about a hundred yards out into the parking lot, spins around and stops, facing Brendan. Its motor purrs deeply. Brendan begins to limp towards it doggedly, head up, eyes fixed. 
A crackling roar and short squeal of tires spit the mustang forward. It comes straight at Brendan, rumbling like a tank. 
Brendan stops walking and stands very still, eyes steady. The gap between him and the car closes in no time at all. 
It speeds past him not six inches to his left, brushing the edge of his jacket. Brakes squeal behind him. Brendan turns and lopes towards the mustang, idling about fifty feet away. 
He stops at the window.   Tugger eyes him curiously, with some respect. 
BRENDAN I want to see the Pin. 
TUGGER (nods slightly) Yeah, I guess you do. 
EXT. STREETS 
Twisty and narrow. The black mustang flies through them at impossible speeds, roaring past like a bullet. 
DARKNESS 
Loud engine noise, jostling, grunting. Then a metallic jangle, some scraping, and a CLINK! 
EXT. REAR OF FAST MOVING MUSTANG - LATE AFTERNOON 
The trunk pops open, revealing Brendan holding a jack rod. 
INT. MOVING MUSTANG - CONTINUOUS 
Tug is putting a tape in the deck, eyes down. Behind him the trunk pops open, then pulls down out of sight just as he looks back up. 
INT. TRUNK OF MOVING MUSTANG Brendan holds the trunk about three inches open, just enough to see which street signs pass by. Loud music plays from the car -- "Sweet Baby James" by James Taylor.1 
The car zooms on. 
BRENDAN'S POV 
Through the ajar trunk. The mustang slides to a stop beside an elaborate wooden mailbox carved as an eagle's head. Brendan closes the trunk. 
EXT. FRONT OF HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON 
A small one story house, slightly run down. Tugger opens the trunk and drags Brendan out, covering his eyes with a palm, slams the trunk and goes inside. 
When they are gone the broken trunk drifts open. 
INT. BASEMENT HALLWAY 
A very dim narrow hall with a steep stairway at one end, dark doors down the length of it and a lit door at the other end. Tugger drags Brendan down the stairway, drops him and goes into the lit room. 
Unfortunately Mr. Taylor flatly refused, which, given the context, was probably wise. 
Brendan lifts his head painfully. Surrounding him in the darkened doorways are dozens of boys, some dressed like Tugger, others dressed in black. 
Tug pokes his head out. 
TUGGER Alright. 
Arms pop out of the darkness and drag Brendan towards the lit room. 
INT. KINGPIN'S DEN 
A small room, amazingly messy. Clothes strewn about, groves of empty bottles, precarious piles of books. The overall impression though is not of jumbled chaos, but of a nest, comfortably woven and very worn in. 
A slim figure with wispy hair sits facing the wall at a small desk, writing under a green bookkeeper's lamp. 
Brendan is shoved into the center of the room. Tug and his clones slump against the surrounding walls. Brendan watches the thin figure's back. For a beat the only noise is the scratching of the thin man's pencil. Then he sighs and swivels around. 
Mid to late twenties. Sallow features, tired eyes. His clothes are so richly black it is difficult to make out specific items -- he is just one inky black mass from the neck down and eyebrows up. 
BRENDAN Water's fine, ma'am, thanks. 
MOTHER Now just a moment, we have apple juice here, if you'd like that, or milk, though you've got that in your cornflakes, I don't know if drinking it as well might be too much. 
BRENDAN Apple juice sounds terrific. 
MOTHER It's country style. 
BRENDAN That's perfect. 
She shuts the fridge. Tugger and the Pin sit behind her, looking comfortably bored. The Pin, a sharp black hole against the soft yellow kitchen, eats oatmeal cookies with small delicate bites. 
MOTHER I'll even give it to you in a country glass, how'd that be? Boys? 
TUGGER I'm fine, Mrs. M. 
PIN Thanks, mom. 
The Pin kisses her on the cheek. 
MOTHER Okay, well I'm going to go, um, do something in the other room now... 
She shuffles out. 
PIN (to Brendan) So hows bout we take another snap at hearing your tale? 
BRENDAN I don't know. It starts out same as before, and this floor ain't carpeted. 
PIN We're cooled off. 
BRENDAN Yeah well, your muscle seemed plenty cool putting his fist in my head. I want him out. 
The Pin grins thinly, uncomfortable. 
PIN Looky, soldier- 
BRENDAN The ape blows or I clam. 
TUGGER (stands violently) So clam! What've you got I can't beat out of you back in the basement? 
The Pin and Brendan are perfectly still, watching each other. 
PIN Give us a few minutes, Tug. 
Tug turns to him, but Pin keeps his eyes on Brendan. 
PIN (cont'd) I'll call you if whatever. 
Beat. Tug stomps off, slamming the narrow door hard behind him. The Pin goes back to gnawing his cookie. 
PIN (cont'd) So? 
Brendan sets down his spoon. 
BRENDAN About a year ago I had a small time dealing partnership with Jerr Madison. Know him? 
PIN Till he took the fall for you. 
BRENDAN Yeah well. I didn't ask him to, but he was a straight player. I got out clean - almost. Nothing on my official record, but the VPs play it like I owe them one. When I made it clear I wasn't playing their hound dog, well they didn't like it. They keep calling me in, badgering me. 
PIN Gee that's tough. 
BRENDAN I don't like being told whose side I'm on. So now they think I'm on your trail, I'm in a nice spot to know their movements and feed them yours. 
PIN I gotcha. 
BRENDAN You haven't got me yet. 
PIN What, price? 
BRENDAN Considering the benefits my services could yield, I don't think that's unreasonable. 
PIN And what are your services exactly, just so I can be specific on the invoice? 
BRENDAN (shrugs) Whatever serves your interests. 
The Pin stands. 
KARA Whatever happened to us, Brendan? 
BRENDAN Where's Dode flopped? 
She turns to face him. 
KARA We were a pair and a half for a few months, weren't we? Sometimes I miss having someone I can talk to. You ever miss having someone? I guess you must. 
Brendan's face is a mask. 
BRENDAN I need to hear Dode's tale about Emily. It's important. 
KARA (darkly) You better be sure you wanna know whatcha wanna know. 
Brendan stands, coughing. 
BRENDAN Uh huh. Laura's working with me now, and I'll have the Pin and Tug in my corner soon. The sooner I get the truth from Dode or the truth about Dode from you, the safer you'll both be. No? Pass it on to Dode anyway. Maybe he'll have the 
sense to get out from under you before he gets hurt. 
KARA You didn't, did you? 
Brendan leaves without looking back. 
INT. BRENDAN'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Brendan's at his desk, on the phone. 
THE BRAIN (on the phone) So what happens now? 
BRENDAN Now we wait for the Pin's answer. Unless his crew spotted VP Truman's social call this morning, it'll be yes. I'd give us 70/30. If we're in I get under his skin and see what's what. You stick to Kara, keep your specs peeled for Dode and stay away from Laura. 
The Brain is quiet for a beat. 
THE BRAIN I think she's with us, Brendan. 
BRENDAN (too sharp) I'll let you know when she is. 
A beat of silence. 
THE BRAIN Okay. 
Brendan gently replaces the receiver and sits for a moment in silence. 
EXT. LOCKER CAGE - MORNING 
The class bell rings, and the cage quickly empties. Brendan limps in, opens his locker. A note falls to his feet. It is folded into a star. He pulls it open. "TWELVE THIRTY PICO & ALEXANDER". He fishes the old note out and compares them - different handwriting. 
The locker cage is now empty and silent, except for the steady sound of heavy footfalls. Brendan looks up from the notes. 
A lug with a lumpish face is coming towards him. He wears a black trenchcoat over bulbous shoulders, and his black hair comes down over his eyes like a sheepdog's. 
BRENDAN You the Pin's? 
No answer. The lug keeps coming. 
BRENDAN (cont'd) So what's his answer? 
Closer, not slowing. Brendan tightens his hand into a fist. Then CLICK! and a long slender switchblade gleams in the lug's right paw. 
Brendan jumps back as the lug swipes the blade at his torso. Before the lug winds up for another slash Brendan is running. 
EXT. CAMPUS SQUARE - DAY 
Brendan runs through the empty campus square, the lug follows. 
EXT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY 
Wind rushing, sweating, the lug very close. Their footsteps clatter on the cement. Brendan swings around a corner, doubles back and stops with his back to a wall - he's lost sight of him. 
Brendan sweats, listening. The lug's footsteps echo through the hallways, coming from all directions at once. Then it seems clear - he's down the hall on Brendan's right. Brendan dashes left. Wrong. The lug looms over him, his knife hand flashing. Brendan's jacket shoulder tears open, and the white filling inside turns red. He stumbles back blindly, gets his footing and scrambles out of reach. 
Brendan sprints away, down the hall, gaining about thirty feet on the lug before turning the corner. 
Brendan drops to a sitting position. 
THE LUG AROUND THE CORNER 
VOICE (on the phone) I know what you did. I saw what you did.1 
The voice is low and garbled, filtered through something. 
BRENDAN So? 
VOICE Anyone I tell, it would ruin you some way. And I'm going to tell someone. 
BRENDAN Are you making an offer? 
VOICE Maybe. Or maybe I'll just do you in. 
BRENDAN Hire another hash head to blade me? 
Originally the source of this call was supposed to be a mystery, but during post production we decided it was one layer too many, and identified the caller as Dode. Brendan's first line was overdubbed in post to say `Dode?" instead of "So?" 
VOICE Don't need no blades, shamus. I just gotta squawk. 
BRENDAN What do you want? 
VOICE Just to see you sweat. 
CLICK. Brendan replaces the receiver and stands still for a moment. Then he inserts a coin and dials. 
THE BRAIN (on the phone) Brendan? 
BRENDAN Yeah. 
THE BRAIN You alright? 
BRENDAN Yeah, I'm fine. Keep digging on the Burns lug, but the main thing is to find Dode. He set up whatever Emily walked into, it's getting more and more urgent we talk. 
THE BRAIN Alright. Trueman was looking for you. 
BRENDAN Trueman and the VP? 
THE BRAIN No, just Trueman. 
BRENDAN Asked for me? 
THE BRAIN No, but looked. 
BRENDAN That's not good. Alright, keep me posted. 
Brendan hangs up. 
EXT. BEACH - NIGHT1 
A bonfire burns about a hundred feet off. Figures jump through the blaze to thrash music. The Pin and Brendan wander towards us on the dark beach. 
PIN So I'm going to start you on the dope circles, cleaning up the Turkish dues, pulling in the strags. 
BRENDAN Small fries. 
PIN Yeah, well. Just to see how you handle. Anyway there isn't much else doing. I'm tailing out this big deal, but that's almost done. 
BRENDAN Oh yeah? What was it? 
PIN Big time. Biggest I ever done, and there was a snag in it, but it's almost done now. 
BRENDAN What was it? 
PIN It's over. 
BRENDAN Almost, you said. 
PIN It's over enough. You're gonna make me curious, being so curious. 
They sit in the sand, facing the breakers. 
PIN (cont'd) I gotta lay something out. You're coming into a certain situation, and I'm bringing you in sort of because of it. 
If ever you want to witness a look of pure horror, shoot a micro budget feature film and tell your cinematographer that there will be an extended scene on a beach at night. Turns out it's difficult to light up a beach without very large and expensive equipment. Who knew. Shooting at sunset proved a fortunate and less horror inducing solution. 
(beat) I didn't tell Tugger to hit you for the Brad Bramish thing. Laura and I, I decided I oughta hear what you were gunning for before I made an enemy. Tug just did it, though. He was hot, and he just hit you. He's been doing that. 
BRENDAN Yeah? 
BRENDAN (cont'd) (into phone) Mr. Trueman please. 
Brendan compares the two notes from his pocket with Laura's - distinct handwriting on each. 
TRUEMAN (on the phone) This is Trueman. 
BRENDAN What the hell are you doing asking for me in class? 
TRUEMAN What the hell are you doing out of class? 
BRENDAN What? 
TRUEMAN (very deliberate) The VP and I needed to ask you a few questions about Emily Kostich, who you might have heard is missing. It's a very serious thing. The police are involved. The VP and I knew you two were close, so the VP and I came to ask you questions, but you were truant. If you don't have a valid excuse- 
Brendan hangs up. 
THE BRAIN What? 
BRENDAN I've been cut loose. I'm not safe here. We shouldn't have met in the open. Alright, lay low, but ask on the underneath for Dode. That's all that matters now, find Dode, but do it on the underneath, got it? 
THE BRAIN What are you going to do? 
BRENDAN I'd like to have played it safe, but there's no time. The Pin's not letting 
anything drop, so I gotta push things a bit. 
THE BRAIN How? 
BRENDAN I don't know. Just find Dode. 
EXT. THE PIN'S HOUSE - DAY 
The bird of prey mailbox looms ominously. Brendan knocks on the front door. No answer. He presses lightly on the screen door, and it gives. 
INT. KITCHEN - SAME 
Empty. Brendan crosses the warped linoleum and gently opens the narrow basement door. He descends into inky gloom. 
INT. BASEMENT HALLWAY - SAME Deathly still and silent. Barely breathing, Brendan goes to the lit doorway at the end of the hall. 
INT. PIN'S DEN - SAME 
Empty. Brendan floats through the room like a ghost, to the Pin's desk. 
Slowly, then with greater confidence he rifles through it - papers and trinkets, meaningless. 
He reaches beneath the desk, knocking it gently with his knuckles. Quickly he removes the top drawer and reaches down into the desk frame. 
Brendan draws out a stack of hundred dollar bills two inches thick. He pulls out another. Another. Another. Thumbing the stacks -- pure hundreds. 
Something creaks in the hallway. 
Brendan freezes. Silently he replaces the money and drawer, his eyes on the doorway. He creeps towards the door on the balls of his feet. 
INT. BASEMENT HALLWAY - SAME 
Still empty. Brendan creeps towards the stairs, passing other doorways, all open but for one. He stops for a moment, listening - silence. 
INT. STORAGE ROOM - SAME 
Brendan enters the room - pitch black but for a small high window. Brendan pulls the curtains aside. A beam of sunlight spills just enough light to reveal a figure in the dark. Brendan jumps back, and his reflection in the large mirror jumps as well. 
A white bird nesting in the window flutters into the dark room. 
Brendan walks the large mirror into the beam of light, reflecting it around the room like a flashlight. More junk, a mattress, then a strangely bare corner with a single white lump in it. The white bird stands behind the lump, its dark eyes caught in the bare light. 
The bird flies out the window. 
Brendan goes to the white lump, a small brick of white powder. White chalky residue patterns the floor -- there were other bricks there before. 
Behind Brendan, in the mirror, something moves. Someone else, in the room. 
Tugger. He throws Brendan across the room, then heaves him into a wall. 
TUGGER What with the poking, genius?! Maybe you're poking for your bull friends! 
BRENDAN Don't be a sap. I can't even face up at school, the VP's so hot for me. 
BRENDAN What was yours? DODE I loved her. And I woulda loved the kid. I'm gonna bury you. 
Brendan's face is empty. Dode walks stiffly away. Brendan puts a hand on his shoulder, but shrinks back in a coughing spasm. Dode grabs Brendan's wrist and hits him in the face. Brendan hits the pavement. 
EXT. HEAVEN - DAY 
Bright clouds, sharp light. Emily flies towards us, glowing, then dimmer, her wings splutter out, the clouds turn gray, and we are looking at Emily's picture in the newspaper article. 
EXT. BASKETBALL FIELD - DAY 
Brendan pulls the newspaper off his face, lying in a fetal position. Dode is nowhere to be seen. 
Slowly, painfully, Brendan hoists himself up. He coughs and splutters, barely able to keep his footing. 
He limps across the field. Every step is agony. The wind blows against him. The black field seems impossibly long, still he keeps limping forward, towards the ravine. 
EXT. RUNOFF TUNNEL - DAY Brendan slides down the embankment, landing on his feet. 
Gathered around the drain tunnel entrance are Tugger, the Pin, five of Tugger's flunkies and Dode in the middle. Everyone looks at Brendan. 
A long silence. Brendan clears his throat. 
BRENDAN What'd I miss? 
More silence. 
PIN Dode here says Emily Kostich is dead. 
Nobody reacts to that. Brendan's face is placid. 
BRENDAN Oh yeah? 
PIN Yeah. He says he knows who did it. He says he knows where the body's at. (beat of silence) And he says he wants more money than I think the information's worth. BRENDAN That so, Dode? (to the Pin) 
So walk. What's the info have to do with you anyways? 
DODE Plenty. 
PIN Plenty, he says. 
BRENDAN Uh huh. And he wants cash on the nail. He's a pot skulled reef worm with more hop in his head than blood. Why pay for dirt you can't believe? 
DODE You'll believe this. 
BRENDAN (shrugs) Maybe you will. 
DODE You'll believe it, cause it's someone close to you. Real close. 
The Pin looks up at Brendan, whose face is loose and nonchalant. 
BRENDAN Maybe it's hot, but it's Dode, you can't trust it. 
DODE Real close. 
Tugger's eyes are locked on Dode, his scar the color of raw liver. Brendan laughs and turns away. 
BRENDAN I'm getting my shoes wet for this. Let him milk you if you want. 
PIN (to Brendan) Stay. (to Dode) It's still too much. 
DODE No it's not. You won't complain when you hear it. 
Tugger twists a stick in his hands. Brendan watches him, curious. 
BRENDAN (murmurs) So maybe you should. 
DODE You had her against the wall with the brick - 
PIN I know my business. It's still too much. 
DODE (with growing confidence) It's not, cause that's not why she was killed, and it's real important to you, cause the person who killed her's real close, and cause he's got a lot to lose, and he knows if I don't bury him by spilling to you I spill to the bulls and bury him for real, and he's really really scared - she had a kid in her and he couldn't stand - 
Tugger springs like a cat.     He grabs Dode's hair and knees his face. 
Brendan stumbles towards them. 
BRENDAN Tug, it's alright! 
BRENDAN Yeah. 
THE BRAIN Are you - what, man, have you heard about Dode- 
BRENDAN I was there. 
THE BRAIN You- 
BRENDAN Where were you yesterday? I called. 
THE BRAIN Kasprzyk took my phone, turned it off. I just now got it back. 
BRENDAN Alright, listen- 
THE BRAIN Are you okay? 
BRENDAN Just listen. Is my name in the papers with the story? 
THE BRAIN No. 
BRENDAN Alright. Is it just Dode in the papers? THE BRAIN Yeah. What do you mean? 
BRENDAN Listen, I'm going to be calling you tonight, probably late. Sleep with your phone on. Could you get a car if you needed to? 
THE BRAIN If it's late enough I could take my mom's- 
BRENDAN Be ready then. I'll call. 
THE BRAIN Alright. 
INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT 
Brendan kicks in the door. Kara sits in front of the mirror in a soft pink robe, a boy on the floor beside her. She gasps. 
KARA Brendan. Did you hear about Dode? 
BRENDAN You scheming tramp. You set that poor kid up, you hid him, fed him your tale. You got info from Laura and held Dode like a card till you could play him. For money! 
Brendan throws a chair. The boy stands. 
KARA I don't know what you're talking about. 
BRENDAN You'd bury me at the same time, but it was mostly for the money. You got Dode thinking Em had his kid, thinking I did it, and that was enough for him, but he stuck to the money cause you had your claws in him, cause he couldn't come away from the deal without it and make you happy. 
KARA Sit down, you're a mess. Russ, go get my shoes from the wardrobe locker, would you sweetie? 
He goes, trying to look mean at Brendan. Brendan and Kara watch each other like caged rats. 
KARA (cont'd) Still wish you knew what you wanted to know? If it's any consolation, it probably wasn't Dode's kid. It might have been Tug's, but frankly I wouldn't bet a horse - it was a crowded field there at the end. 
Brendan grabs a clock and throws it. Kara's mirror shatters, revealing a grimy dark wall behind. 
KARA (cont'd) Meany. You want my tale, Brendan? I still know what Dode was selling, but I'd play it smart. A quick call from a payphone to copland, they drag the tunnel and you're through. 
She comes very close to him. Her robe falls open slightly. 
KARA (cont'd) Five thousand. Cash. I know you can get it from the Pin, but even if you can't I want it by first period tomorrow, or I play my hand and bury you. 
She turns away, lets her robe fall.1 
KARA (cont'd) Now get out. 
Brendan's eyes burn. He lunges at her. 
EXT. BACKSTAGE - SAME 
Drama geeks sit in groups. The dressing room door flies open and Kara flies out, stark naked. Brendan flies out after her. 
KARA What are you doing? 
BRENDAN Showing your ace. 
Brendan storms out. 
Also on the DVD. Fine retailers everywhere. 
EXT. PIN'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
BRENDAN It's yours. 
PIN That aint the point. I'm gonna start selling it. How do I know it aint bad? 
BRENDAN Why would it be? 
PIN Why was the last one? Cause someone got greedy. Tug here's had the means to swipe half and cut it bad for a long time. Now we're splits my loss of trust's retroactive. 
BRENDAN Did you, Tug? 
TUGGER (eyes hot on the Pin) No. 
BRENDAN Alright, so let's shake and blow. 
PIN Not good enough. 
Tug shoots to his feet, kicking away his chair. BRENDAN What would be good enough? 
PIN I wanna see him dose it. Just to prove it. Then we're square. 
TUGGER Hell for that! I didn't touch your junk, that's it. 
PIN I wanna see it. 
TUGGER To hell! 
PIN Your not wanting to dose it's telling me something right here. 
TUGGER Yeah, it better be! It's telling that I'm out from your thumb, that I aint playing lapdog to no gothed up cripple no more! 
Everyone in the room is on their feet.   Brendan steps forward. 
BRENDAN I'll dose it. 
All eyes to him, unbelieving. 
PIN What? 
BRENDAN If it'll shut you two apes up I'll   take the dose, and if I don't die we're   all right as rain, and if I do die you   two have your war, so long as you keep   it off my grave. Deal? 
PIN Fine.   Tangles. 
BRENDAN Johnny, go with him. They go. 
Tug just stares at Brendan, then tosses his hands up slightly and turns away. 
They all wait. 
CRASH! from the next room. Everyone freezes. More breaking, then scuffling and shouting. 
The two punks look at their bosses, then run out. Tug starts to follow, but Brendan holds him back. 
The noise through the wall grows tremendous, a full brawl. The ceiling pounds and shudders with footfalls and bodies hitting the ground. 
Then, from not too far away, a gunshot. 
The Pin stands and goes towards the door, but Brendan shouts 
BRENDAN (cont'd) No! 
and slams it shut. A few tense seconds. 
Another gunshot. Footfalls, then Tangles falls through the door, his chest red. The Pin bends over him. 
TANGLES (gasping) The brick, it's gone. The brick's gone. 
Tangles stops gasping. The Pin stands, eyes blazing at Tug. 
PIN Make peace, huh? Talk it out? Get your boys in my den soes you could snag it under my nose? 
Tug's scar is fiery red. He coils his body, snarling. 
TUGGER Alright! 
BRENDAN No, that's not- 
PIN Was it bad, Tug? Snag it so I don't know, or sell it off to flat the war odds? 
BRENDAN Did she blow last night? 
THE BRAIN No. Stayed there till six thirty, then walked to school. 
BRENDAN You didn't give her a ride, did you? 
THE BRAIN No. 
BRENDAN But she came straight to school from Tug's? 
THE BRAIN Yeah. 
BRENDAN She there now? 
THE BRAIN Yeah. Not with me, but here. 
BRENDAN Alright. Tell her I wanna meet up on the basketball field in half an hour, then go home and get some sleep. 
THE BRAIN Alright. Brendan hangs up, then pauses, lost in thought. 
EXT. SIDE OF GYM - LATER 
Brendan sits against the massive gym building, writing on a piece of looseleaf paper. 
EXT. ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - LATER Brendan slips the paper under a door stenciled "VP Offices". 
EXT. BASKETBALL FIELD - LATER 
Cold, barren. Wind whistles softly and jangles the metal mesh basketball nets like windchimes. 
Brendan stands crookedly, hands in pockets, eyes trained on the cold black horizon. A speck appears. Brendan waits for it, bracing himself against the wind. 
Laura. She puts her arms around him, a warm embrace. Brendan draws back. 
LAURA (softly) Did you see it all? With Tug and the Pin? 
Brendan looks at her a moment. 
BRENDAN No. I took your advice and didn't go. 
LAURA (confused) No? 
BRENDAN What happened? 
Laura looks at him strangely, a little uneasy. 
LAURA The papers say six dead, three around the house, one girl in the trunk of Tug's car, and the Pin and Tug. 
Brendan's face is frozen in an ambiguous frown. 
BRENDAN Yeah? LAURA Tug tried to shoot his way out when the police got there. They tied him to Dode, too. Same gun. And the girl. 
BRENDAN Huh. LAURA Well good thing you weren't there. 
BRENDAN Yeah. 
Laura's face softens a bit. 
LAURA You think the girl was Emily? 
BRENDAN Probably. 
Laura embraces him again, and doesn't let go. 
LAURA You loved her. 
BRENDAN (distant) Yeah I did. 
LAURA You did all this cause you loved her. And now it's finished. (tightens her embrace) I love you. 
BRENDAN No. 
Laura pulls back, looks at his face. It is a mask. 
LAURA What? 
BRENDAN No, it's not finished. Tug pulled the trigger on Em and he got the fall, but the bulls coulda found that out without me. Laura pulls back more. 
