CUT TO: 
INT. AMBULANCE--NIGHT 
Larry climbing through the back doors, sitting in the jumpseat at the stretcher's head as Frank hangs IV bags, replugs EKG wires that have come loose. 
Frank looks up, sees Mary entering; he takes her arm, turns her toward the rear doors: 
FRANK Help your family. Ride with your mother and brother. (she hesitates) Help your family. They need you more. Help yourself. 
Mary steps out, stands in the red flashing light as Larry closes the door, Frank climbs in the driver's seat. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. SECOND AVENUE--NIGHT 
The EMS bus cruises up Second. Frank checks the side mirror: John, Mary and Mrs. Burke pull behind in a black Ford. Seeing their faces, Frank flips the lights and siren on. It's too late to help Mr. Burke, but it's important to the family that it look urgent. Frank watches passing lights, cars, faces: 
FRANK (V.O.) I needed to concentrate because my mind tended to wander on these short trips. It was the neighborhood I grew up in and where I had worked most as a paramedic, and it held more ghosts per square foot than any other. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. OUR LADY OF MERCY--NIGHT 
Larry and Frank's 13 Zebra ambulance lined up beside two others outside a blazing "Emergency" sign on the crowded side street. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MERCY ER--NIGHT 
Every large city has a hospital Emergency Room so replete with trauma, violence and suffering it picks up the sobriquet "Knife and Gun Club." On Manhattan's Lower East Side it's our Lady Of Mercy, aka, Our Lady of Misery. 
ER: a white-lit cement box painted yellow and decorated with old framed Playbills. Four rows of six plastic chairs face a TV bolted and chained to the ceiling. The seats are filled with backed-up drunks, assault victims and "regulars," bleeding and spilling over against the walls and the floor, getting up to ask their status or going out to throw up and have a smoke. 
Larry and Frank wheeling Burke in, two IV lines, each connected to an elbow, tangled in EKG cables. Two LACERATED RUSSIANS scramble out of their way as they approach GRISS, the large black sunglassed security guard. He looks up from his television guide: 
GRISS Hey partner. Your man does not look well. They're not gonna appreciate you inside. 
FRANK (pumping Ambu-bag) Griss, let us in. 
GRISS Things are backing up. 
Griss pushes a button, activating the automatic door, striking the bandaged leg of a man lying down on a stretcher in the hall. Larry and Frank wheel Burke inside. A pleading family tries to follow. Griss stretches out his hand: 
GRISS (CONT'D) You can't go in there, folks. 
Mary, John and Mrs. Burke rush in from the street, hoping some miracle has occurred during the drive to the hospital, approach the sign-in desk. 
Frank and Larry pass four stretchers lined against the wall-- a passage nicknamed "Skid Row" leading past triage NURSE CONSTANCE's station. 
NURSE CONSTANCE Just keep moving. Don't even slow down. 
Nurse Constance turns back to the nervous man seated beside her: 
NURSE CONSTANCE (CONT'D) Sir, you say you've been snorting cocaine for three days and now you feel your heart is beating too fast and you would like us to help you. To tell the truth, I don't see why I should. If I'm mistaken, correct me. Did we sell you the cocaine? Did we push it up your nose? 
Larry and Frank slow at the last Skid Row stretchers. On one, NOEL, a young dark-skinned man with chaotic mess of dreadlocks, pulls feverishly at his restraints: 
NOEL For God's sake, give me some water. 
From the next stretcher a man with feet swollen purple like prize eggplants replies: 
BIG FEET Shut up! Goddamn civilians. 
She points to Burke. His monitor is ringing like a fire alarm. Hazmat and Crupp rush over, wave to others: 
HAZMAT (CONT'D) Crupp, start CPR. Milagros, get me an epi. Odette wake up Dr. Stark. Tell him I need a blood gas, stat. 
As the staff crowds around Burke, pulling the paddles from off the monitor, Frank, pushing his stretcher away, notices Big Feet climb onto his infected feet, hobble over, work to untie Noel. 
NOEL Bless you sir, bless you. 
BIG FEET Shut up. 
Frank heads down Skid Row pushing the stretcher, passing Nurse Constance speaking with a man with a gash over his eye: 
NURSE CONSTANCE ... so you get drunk every day and you fall down. Tell me why we should help you when you're going to get drunk tomorrow and fall down again? 
Frank pushes the automatic door button--and is suddenly hit from behind by Noel. The stretcher spins sideways. Noel dives out the doors for the water fountain, snorting up water like a bull. Mary Burke, standing with her family, looks at Frank. 
FRANK (stock reply) He's very very sick. 
MARY I know him. That's Noel. 
FRANK We'd better go outside. Quickly. 
Frank and Mary step out into the humid night. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT 
Checking behind then, Frank stops. Mary pauses before she speaks: 
MARY Is there any chance? 
FRANK (shakes head) I guess there's always a chance. 
The doors break open. Noel comes flying out, bounces on the sidewalk. Griss, in the doorway, closes the doors. 
Mary goes over to Noel: 
MARY Noel, Noel, it's me, Mary. From 17th Street. 
NOEL Mary, Mary, Mary. I'm so thirsty. They won't give me anything to drink. Please, Mary. 
MARY (heading inside) I'll get you some. 
Frank watches: Mary returns with a cup of water, gives it to a grateful Noel. 
FRANK I wouldn't do that. (Noel drinks) The doctor seems to think he's suffering from some rare disorder. 
MARY It's not so rare. He grew up on our street. He's had a rough life and he's a little crazy from it, but that's no excuse for not giving someone a lousy cup of water. 
Mary starts to cry. Frank fumbles in his pocket, finds a tissue, gives it to her. 
MARY (CONT'D) My father's dying, Noel. 
NOEL Oh Mary, Mary, Mary. 
Noel hugs her clumsily, his shoulders bobbing. Frank watches, realizing this is what he should have done for her. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. EAST SIDE STREETS--NIGHT 
13 Zebra cruising down Avenue C, Frank at the wheel, Larry shotgun. 
LARRY You're burned out. 
RADIO DISPATCHER One-three Zebra. Zebra three, I need you. 
LARRY You see, he's giving it to us anyway. 
RADIO DISPATCHER Zebra, are you there? I'm holding an unconscious at First and St. Marks. 
LARRY (screams) No! It's three o'clock. That can only mean one thing. 
FRANK Mr. Oh. 
LARRY It's Mr. Oh. I'm not answering it. 
RADIO DISPATCHER Answer the radio Zebra. You know it's that time. 
LARRY Four times this week I've had him. Aren't there any other units out there?  Don't answer the radio. They'll give it to someone else. 
RADIO DISPATCHER Thirteen Zebra. One-Three Zebra. You're going out of service in two seconds. 
Pause. Neither moves. 
LARRY Look, Frank, when I say don't answer it, that means answer it. (picks up the mike) You can do that for me at least. (keys mike) Three Zebra. 
RADIO DISPATCHER Yes, Zebra. You'll be driving to the man who needs no introduction, chronic caller of the year three straight and shooting for number four. The duke of drunk, the king of stink, our most frequent flier, Mr. Oh. 
LARRY Ten-four. (Frank starts the engine) Don't go. Not this time. 
FRANK (driving off) Relax, it's a street job, easy except for the smell. We'll just throw him in back and zip over to Mercy--no blood, no dying, that's how I look at it. He's just a drunk. 
LARRY It's not our job to taxi drunks around. 
FRANK They'll just keep calling. 
LARRY Someone's gonna die someday causa that bum, going to have a cardiac and the only medics will be taking care of Mr. Oh. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIRST & ST. MARKS--NIGHT 
Frank and Larry standing over Mr. Oh, 40, surrounded by street people. Oh lays curled up beside his wheelchair, wearing a black garbage bag with holes cut out for his arms, his pants around his knees. 
MALE STREET PERSON #1 He's bad mister. He ain't eaten nuthin all day, he's seizing and throwing up. 
LARRY (hand over nose) So what's different? 
MALE STREET PERSON #1 He says his feet hurt. 
FRANK Well why didn't you say so? 
LARRY He's drunk. 
MALE STREET PERSON #2 He's sick. You gotta help him. 
LARRY He's fine. He can walk to the hospital. 
FEMALE STREET PERSON Walk? You crazy? He's in a wheelchair. 
LARRY Don't start that. I've seen him walk. He walks better than me. 
Frank crouches over Oh, tries to pull Oh's pants over his white, dirt-stained ass. Oh moans: 
MR. OH Oh, oh, oh. 
A second ambulance skids to a stop. TOM WALLS, 35, a 220 pound bald-headed bruiser, gets out. 
LARRY Jesus, Tom Walls, that crazy motherfucker. 
FRANK Used to be my partner. 
WALLS Frank, this the guy you called about? I know him. (pushes Noel) You give my friend here any trouble and I'll kill you. 
NOEL Yes, at the hospital. 
WALLS This looks like a very bad man I took in a couple weeks ago, a man who'd been holding two priests hostage with a screwdriver. I told him if I ever caught him making trouble again I'd kick the murdering life outta him. 
FRANK It's not worth it, Tom. He's surrendering. 
WALLS No prisoners. Don't worry, Frank, just a little psychological first aid. 
Walls hauls back, swings at Noel; Noel ducks. 
WALLS (CONT'D) Stay still, dammit! 
Walls throws Noel against the bus, knocks him down, sets to kicking him. 
FRANK Don't do it, Tom! 
Noel moans. Larry sticks his head out the back of the bus: 
LARRY There's a double shooting three blocks- up. First and Third. confirmed. 
WALLS (looking up) We'll do it. 
Walls releasing Noel as Noel scrambles into the bus, Frank stepping over him, Larry climbing into the driver's seat, Frank closing the doors. Noel trembles: 
NOEL At the hospital. You told me at the hospital. 
Larry squeals off full gun, all sirens blaring: the Wah, the Yelp, the Super Yelp. Strobe bar, side strobes, quarter panel strobes. Rock n' roll. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIRST & THIRD--NIGHT 
Both EMS buses breaking to a stop at the crime scene, cops holding the crowd back; Walls, Frank, Larry, Walls' partner moving through the crowd. 
FRANK & WALLS EMS. Move it! 
BYSTANDER Man just walked up and shot 'em. Not a word. Man, that was cold. 
Two boys, DRUG DEALERS, lie bleeding on the sidewalk. Frank drops to his knees beside one, Walls the other. Larry wheels out the stretcher. 
FRANK (to Drug Dealer) Where you hit? 
VOICE IN CROWD Outlaw did this. He works for Cy. 
Two white vials roll out of the Drug Dealer's shirt: marked with red skull and crossbones. Frank looks over--they're gone, swiped by eager hands. 
Listening for a heartbeat, Frank calls to Walls: 
FRANK Major Tom, I'm going to Misery. You take yours to Bellvue. 
CUT TO: 
INT. 13 ZEBRA EMS VEHICLE--NIGHT 
Larry charging through the night while, in back, Frank, stethoscope in his ears, wrapping a tourniquet around the Drug Dealer's arm: he's dying fast. 
MARY That's my brother's problem. He's passed out inside. 
Larry jumps theatrically out of the ambulance, swings the mop wildly over his head: 
LARRY That's it! I can't do it anymore! 
Mary laughs once, less than a second. She notices blood stains on Frank's shirt: 
MARY That boy you brought in, he was shot, wasn't he? 
FRANK Yes. 
MARY He's dead, huh? 
FRANK Yes. 
MARY (pause) I think this place stinks. 
FRANK Our Lady of Misery. 
MARY Did you see my father? 
FRANK No. 
MARY It's crazy in there. What's wrong with that doctor? He keeps mumbling, poking himself in the eye when he talks to me. 
FRANK He's working a double shift. 
MARY Thing is, I'm supposed to be the fuckup. The one on the stretcher in there--that's supposed to be me. With my parents crying out here. I got a lot of guilt, you know what I mean? 
He does. 
MARY (CONT'D) My father's in a coma, now my mother's going crazy. It's like she's in a trance. 
FRANK She should go home. 
MARY I'd take her, but then who would stay here? 
Frank looks at her, trying to say the right thing. He notices Mrs. Burke coming from inside. 
FRANK Here she is. 
Mrs. Burke, dazed, steps out. They join her. 
MRS. BURKE It wasn't him. 
MARY You saw him? 
MRS. BURKE They showed me someone. It wasn't him. It wasn't my husband. 
FRANK Mrs. Burke, please, they'll take care of him. You should go home now. 
MRS. BURKE I should know my own husband. They wouldn't let me see him. 
She drifts away. Frank speaks to Mary: 
FRANK Larry and I'll drop her back home. Help me get her to the ambulance. 
MRS. BURKE You want some coffee? I have some apple sauce cake too. 
They walk Mrs. Burke to 13 Zebra. 
MARY Thank you. 
CAPT. BARNEY I'll fire you tomorrow. Hell, better than that, I'll forward you some sick time. A week, two weeks off-- how about that? 
FRANK I don't think a week's gonna do it. 
CAPT. BARNEY I'm sorry, Pierce. (hands Frank keys) You're going out with Marcus. Duty calls. The City needs you. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. SECOND AVENUE--NIGHT 
12 Young heading downtown, lights off, slowing down for cross streets. At the wheel: MARCUS, 45, black, reserved, chin erect, seeming too old for the job. Frank rides techie. 
MARCUS My Lord mother man, you look like hell. What were you drinking? 
FRANK The captain almost fired me tonight. I'm on my way out. Anytime now. 
MARCUS Nobody gets fired. Look at me. Only thing they might do is transfer you to the Bronx. You look like you aged ten years since I rode with you last. 
FRANK The ghosts-- 
MARCUS You ever notice people who see shit always, are crazy? 
FRANK I think the worst is over. 
MARCUS It can always get worse. You can't change what's out there, only where you're coming from. You got to let the Lord take over, in here. (points to Frank's chest) 
LOVE, a black, tough-talking female dispatcher, comes on the radio: 
DISPATCHER LOVE Twelve Young. (beat) Let's go, Twelve Young. Answer the radio. 
FRANK Hey, Marcus, it's Love. I haven't heard her in months. 
MARCUS She only works when I'm on. I make her wait and it drives her crazy. 
FRANK Is it true that you and Love went on a blind date? (Marcus looks away) She hit you with a bottle? 
MARCUS She loves me the way no woman ever has. 
DISPATCHER LOVE Twelve Young, I don't have time for your games. Now answer me or do I have to come out there myself? 
MARCUS I usually don't do calls before coffee. But I think it might do you some good. (picks up mike) Twelve Young is here and I'm gonna take care of you, baby. Don't you worry about a thing, yahear, cause Marcus is alive and on arrival. 
DISPATCHER LOVE I'm not your baby, Young, I'm not your mother either. You're going to a cardiac arrest, Avenue C and Ninth, northeast corner. It's a club. Take the side entrance. 
MARCUS Ten-four, hon. (to Frank) This is for you. 
Marcus flips on the lights and siren. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. NINTH & AVENUE C--NIGHT 
Marcus grabs the yellow airway bag, leaving Frank to lug the three heavier pieces as they push their way through the crowd toward a black jacketed DOORMAN holding a walkie-talkie: 
MARCUS (to crowd) I hope we're not late from you guys holding us up here. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CLUB BACKSTAGE--NIGHT 
The Doorman leads Frank and Marcus through the smoky graffiti- covered backstage ante-rooms to a cubicle where a knot of club types and band members hover around IB BANGIN, 18 year- old white rapper, face up, blank-eyed and breathless on dirt- impacted carpet. Hip-hop music echoes from the club PA. 
Frank kneels beside IB Bangin, taking a pulse, realizing it's the gray and black stage makeup making him seem DOA. He pulls up IB Bangin's eyelid, shines a light into the pupil. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MERCY ER--NIGHT 
IB Bangin sitting with Nurse Constance in triage. Past Griss, Frank talks with Dr. Hazmat: 
FRANK That guy I brought in yesterday, post-cardiac arrest. He's gone. 
HAZMAT Burke. You won't believe it. He's showing cognitive signs. He started with spontaneous respiration, now he's fighting to pull out the tube. Had to sedate him. He's in a CAT scan. I'm giving him every test I can: thromboytics, steroids, nitrodrips, heparin. 
FRANK What do you think? 
HAZMAT Who knows? It's all lower-brain-stem- activity. The heart refuses to stabilize--he's coded eleven times since he got here. This guy's a fighter. Every time the Valium wears off he starts yanking those restraints. 
FRANK The family know? 
HAZMAT I wanted to bring them in, to see if he'd respond to voices, but they weren't in the waiting room. The guy's daughter was in my face all last night and when I finally have something positive to tell her, she's gone. 
Frank nods, walks down Skid Row, passing Nurse Constance lecturing IB Bangin: 
NURSE CONSTANCE ... you put poison in your veins and now that you're breathing again you can't wait to say thank you and go back to poison shopping. Well, since we saved your life, maybe you could do us a favor and stop breathing in another city next time ... 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIRST AVE--NIGHT 
12 Young heading up the avenue. 
MARCUS I ever tell you about the time years ago I was on this ledge uptown, trying to talk this psycho inside? 
FRANK Where the guy jumped and you almost fell. No, you never told me that story. 
MARCUS No, you never listened. I was going, man, if someone on high hadn't pulled me in. I had put all I had into saving this dumbass lowlife suicidal that when he went down, there was a part of me that wanted to go with him. 
FRANK Make a left here. I want to stop. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BURKE APT. BUILDING--NIGHT 
Marcus stops the ambulance on 17th Street. 
FRANK I'll be right back. 
Frank gets out, walks over to the intercom, pushes the button for 5A. Mary answers: 
MARY (V.O.) Yes? 
FRANK Hello, I'm Frank Pierce, from the ambulance last night. I brought your father into the hospital and I just learned some news. 
MARY (V.O.) I'll be right down. 
Mary appears in a white sweater and simple gray skirt like schoolgirls wear. The dark makeup is gone. She looks happy. 
MARY (CONT'D) He's better, isn't he? 
FRANK Well, the doctor says he's showing some movement. It's still early, it might mean nothing, but I thought you'd want to know. 
MARY I knew. I sensed it when I heard your voice. 
FRANK You look so different. 
MARY I know. It's awful, isn't it? Night of the Living Cheerleaders. 
INT. LOCKER ROOM--NIGHT 
Passing Griss (reading anti-white agitprop) and waiting room regulars, Frank leads Mary to a small rectangular paramedic locker area: sofa, desk, two banks of gray lockers, walls decorated with hospital rules and regulations. 
FRANK He wants to pull that tube out. It's pretty painful--that's why they keep him sedated--but it's a good sign. 
MARY You sure? I know my father would hate to be tied down. He wouldn't even go to the dentist. 
He sits across from her, wishing he could be in three seats at once, each to watch her from a different angle. 
FRANK That's how it's done. You have to keep the body going until the brain and heart recover enough to go on their own. 
MARY He's better, though, right? 
FRANK (reluctant) He's better. 
MARY Look, I'm sorry, but it's important to me. I mean, a week ago I was wishing he was dead. And now I want hear his voice again, just once more-- you know what I mean? 
Marcus enters with a small pizza and two cokes. 
MARCUS Went over to Sal's got this. There must be some place in Hell for a guy who sells a dollar-fifty a slice. I call you if anything comes up. 
FRANK Thanks. 
Marcus exits. 
MARY I'm not really hungry. 
She says as she picks up a slice of cheese pizza. 
MARY (CONT'D) My father was a great man, you know. There was nobody he wouldn't help. You know that crazy guy Noel who I gave water to last night? He lived in our house for almost a year. A total stranger he'd do anything for, his own family though ... 
FRANK It's best not to ... (off her look) It's good pizza, huh? 
MARY Not as good as Nino's. 
FRANK You remember that pizza place, Joe's on Tenth Street maybe fifteen years ago?  When you ordered a pie it came with a little plastic madonna in the middle? 
MARY Yeah, or Saint Anthony. You from the neighborhood? 
FRANK I grew up on Elizabeth. I went to Blessed Sacrament. 
MARY On yeah? I went to Holy Name. Where'd you go to high school? 
FRANK We moved out after that. Upstate. 
MARY Like everybody else--except us. Always standing on the sidewalk waving goodbye to moving trucks. Your parents 
FRANK They're fine. My old man was a bus driver, mom a nurse--I was sort of born to it, I guess. 
MARY You married? 
FRANK Ah, no. I was. (beat) It's hard to explain. She had a hard time adjusting to, well, maybe it was my fault too. 
Pause.   This thought hangs in the air. From outside: a BELLICOSE DRUNK is escorted into the ER. 
DRUNK (O.S.) White cocksuckers! Get your--Ow! 
MARY Is it always this bad in here? I mean, how does anyone survive? 
FRANK It's been bad lately, but it's always bad. 
MARY How long you been doing this? 
FRANK I didn't kill you. 
Marcus, not hearing "Rose's" voice, replies: 
MARCUS No, you didn't, Frank, thank you. But there's still a couple hours left on the shift. 
FRANK I need a drink, that's all. 
Dispatcher Love's voice cuts through: 
DISPATCHER LOVE Twelve Young, answer the radio. I have a call for you. 
MARCUS She said to me, I love the way you talk on the radio. 
DISPATCHER LOVE I can't wait all night, Young. I'm holding a priority and if you don't answer I'm going to knock you out of service. 
MARCUS (keys radio) Don't worry, hon. Young is here and he's gonna help out--just remember, you owe me. 
DISPATCHER LOVE You're going to three-four Avenue C, 17 year-old female cardiac arrest, no further information. 
MARCUS Ten-four, hon. 
Marcus hits the siren. 
CUT TO: 
INT. RUNDOWN TENEMENT--NIGHT 
Frank and Marcus standing in a no-income apartment with their cardiac equipment. MARIA, a 17 year-old Hispanic girl, lies moaning and breathing shallow on a ratty sofa. CARLOS, her equally young boyfriend, watches anxiously, holding a candle for light. 
MARCUS Look at that. A fat junkie. That's a first. 
FRANK (to Maria) What's wrong. 
Carlos speaks broken English: 
CARLOS No English. She has terrible pain in her belly. 
FRANK (hands on stomach) Pregnant. 
CARLOS No, no, that's impossible. 
FRANK Are you pregnant? Estas embarazada? 
Maria shakes her head, looks away. 
FRANK (CONT'D) Can you walk? Puedes caminar? 
CARLOS She say she in great pain. 
FRANK Thanks for the translation. (to Maria) What's your name? Nombre? 
MARIA Maria. 
FRANK Let's have a look. 
MARCUS (to Carlos) You know each other a long time? 
CARLOS Two years. Ever since we left island. 
MARCUS In that time, you ever have sex? 
CARLOS Never. No cigarettes, no drugs, no booze. 
Frank looking at the EKG monitor--a green flatline--backs away. 
MISHRA Fuck. 
NURSE CONSTANCE Nothing. 
Frank walking away, not looking where he's going, backs into Noel's gurney. 
NOEL Excuse me, sir, excuse me, I would please trouble you for one cup of water. The smallest thing in the world to ask for, water. A man is dying and that is me. 
Noel, his face battered from his encounter with Walls, pulls at his restraints, howls: 
NOEL (CONT'D) For days I've eaten nothing but sand, O Lord, I waited so long. 
Hazmat looks over: 
HAZMAT Christ. Who the hell woke him up? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CANAL STREET--NIGHT 
12 Young on the road again, sky turning blue. 
FRANK Don't give me that look. 
MARCUS What look? 
FRANK You know what I'm talking about. It's all over your face. That I-just- saved-a-little-baby-boy look. 
MARCUS We just saved a little baby boy. Think of it that way. 
FRANK I don't want to hear about it, okay? That's three jobs for the night. It's over. Three jobs and time for a drink. Six am, the cocktail hour. Pass the bottle; I know you're holding. 
Marcus reaches under the seat, pulls a pint of vodka, a quart of orange juice and two cups out of an old gym bag, passes them to Frank. 
MARCUS The bar is now open. 
Frank mixes a screwdriver for Marcus, straight vodka for himself. 
FRANK I hate vodka. 
MARCUS Please, a little decorum if you will. What I was going to say is, is that holding that baby in my arms, I felt like I was twenty-one again. A call like that makes me think of going back to three nights a week, not two, start running again, cut down on the drinking. 
FRANK (pours drink) I'll drink to that. 
MARCUS (raises cup) Here's to the greatest job in the world. 
FRANK (knocks vodka back) Greatest job in the world. 
DISPATCHER LOVE Twelve Young, I have priorities holding. Pick up the radio. 
FRANK Don't do it, Marcus. Tell her the bus died, our radio's not working, our backs are out. Tell her we're too drunk to take any more calls. 
MARCUS Let's do it! (keys mike) It's Marcus, Love, only for you. 
DISPATCHER LOVE Male diff breather, approximately 30, Houston and A. 
MARCUS Ten-four. 
Marcus hits the sirens and lights, accelerates to full speed. The vodka spills; Frank grabs the dash. 
MARCUS (CONT'D) I'm coming, Love! I'm coming! 
No language, only brute power. You can't believe how relaxing it is. 
Kanita returns with a glass of water, gives it to Frank; Coates stands, feeds the fish. 
COATES (CONT'D) Frank, I'm trying to help you.  Drink up. 
Frank swallows the white pill, drinks the water. He places his arms on the chair: 
FRANK I guess I'll be going. 
COATES Just take it easy. 
Frank looks around the smoke-filled room. Kanita walks over, extends her hand. 
KANITA Take my pulse. (he does) It's good, isn't it? 
FRANK Perfect. 
KANITA I knew it. I was wrong about you. You're not so bad. 
Kanita runs her hand across his shoulders. Frank starts to nod. The room getting warm and dark. His eyelids lower: sleep, precious sleep. 
CUT TO: 
FRANK'S ROSE DREAM 
Voices and sounds echo through the purple haze as Frank's mind drifts in time and space. Action and sounds slow, speed up, distort--intermix with the Oasis--as Frank goes back: 
This is how it begins: the last time, the first time ... 
Larry exits 13 Zebra as Rose, 18, wearing a yellow rain slicker, falls to her knees in the miasmic dream stank, onto the sidewalk, then onto her back. From forty feet away Frank, seeing her reach for a parking meter, grabbing the tube kit, running. 
Rose gasping for breath, Frank falling to his knees, lifting her tongue, prying her teeth apart, slipping the blade between her lips--Rose not breathing: waiting for her to inhale, shooting the tube down her vocal cords. Larry listening to lung sounds, belly sounds: 
LARRY You're in the stomach! 
FRANK You sure? 
ROSE Rose! 
FRANK Huh? 
ROSE My name. Rose. 
LARRY You're in the stomach, man. 
Frank pulling the tube out, trying again. 
Somewhere: CY Coates laughs. 
LARRY (CONT'D) You're in the stomach! Let me try. 
FRANK One more time! 
Rose going blue, pulse rate dropping, EKG Slowing: Jim Morrison singing. 
LARRY Stomach again. 
FRANK No way! 
Larry ripping the tube from Frank's hands, taking over, pushing Frank aside, trying CPR, intubating Rose, air moving into her lungs--it doesn't matter. Rose is gone. 
Frank hears a SCREAM: it's his own voice. 
Mary grabs the railing, heads up the stairs. 
MARY What is it? You want to help me, you feel sorry for me? Keep it to yourself. 
FRANK I need to sit down a minute. 
MARY Or maybe you wanna fuck me? Everyone else has. 
Mary opens the door to her first floor apartment; Frank follows. The room is clean and feminine. Unframed water colors stacked against the wall atop a desk. A black lab greets Mary, she pets him. Frank slumps on the sofa. 
MARY (CONT'D) I've been clean two years now. I got a job. I paint when I'm home. Don't bother anybody. Then all this shit happens. 
Frank keels over onto his side, his head hitting a cushion, eyes closed, dog licking his cheek. 
MARY (CONT'D) Oh no you don't. You can't stay here. 
He's asleep, the sound of her crying fading in his head. 
FADE OUT: 
INT. MARY'S APT.--NIGHT 
FADE IN: a passing siren wakes Frank. He thinks back, looking around the darkened room, realizes where he is. The dog comes over, licks his hand. 
FRANK Hello, I'm Frank. Mary's friend. A very close friend who loves animals. 
He removes the blanket Mary has laid over him, stands: 
FRANK (CONT'D) Hello? 
Frank walks cautiously through the dark, finds a bathroom lit by a glowing Mickey Mouse switch. He flips on the switch: a string of green and red Christmas lights glow. Three types of soap sit on the sink. He turns on the faucet: 
FRANK (V.O.) (CONT'D) I washed my face with three kinds of soap, each smelling like a different season. It felt good to be in a woman's room again, especially a woman who wasn't comatose or severely disabled. I felt that perhaps I had turned a corner, like I saved someone, though I didn't know who. 
CUT TO: 
INT. EMS GARAGE OFFICE--NIGHT 
Frank standing at Captain Barney's desk. 
CAPT. BARNEY You're late, Pierce. I know, but I can't fire you. I've got nobody to work sixteen XRay with Walls. 
FRANK No ... 
CAPT. BARNEY I got some forms here to fill out about that accident when you get the time. (hands him keys) I'll fire you tomorrow. I promise. 
FRANK What if there is no tomorrow? 
CAPT. BARNEY Go on, get outta here, Pierce, before I give you a big hug. (to Miss Williams) I love this guy. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT 
Frank walks toward Sixteen XRay as Walls gets out of the front seat. The EMS vehicle is dented and rusted, a relic of wars and a hodgepodge of parts. 
WALLS Frank, what do you know. It's you and me again tonight, the Rough Riders, tearing up the streets just like old times. (kicks the front tire) This old bus is a warrior, Frank, just like us. I have tried to kill him and he will not die. I have a great respect for that. 
Frank makes a "be right back" gesture, walks into ER. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MERCY ER--NIGHT 
Frank places an open drug box on the stretcher, pulls out an IV set, wraps a tourniquet around his left bicep. 
FRANK I'm sick, Tom. I need a cure. (injects himself) Vitamin B cocktail, followed by an amp of glucose and a drop of adrenaline. Not as good as beer, but all I got. 
WALLS Come on, Frank. There's blood spilling in the streets. 
Frank crawls back in front carrying the IV bag, puts on the oxygen mask, turns on the main tanks, takes a deep hit. 
FRANK (pulls off mask) These are hard times, Tom. 
WALLS Yeah. Great, isn't it? 
FRANK Great to be drunk. Sobriety's killing me. 
WALLS Look up, Frank. Full moon. The blood's gonna run tonight. I can feel it. Our mission: to save lives. 
FRANK Our mission is coffee, Tom. A shot of the bull, Puerto Rican espresso. 
WALLS Ten-four. El Toro de Oro. Blast off. 
Walls hits the sirens, accelerates. 
FRANK The cure's not working, Tom. Maybe we should go back to the hospital. 
WALLS Don't worry, kid. Tom'll take care of you. Put your head out the window, get some of that summer air. Listen to the music. El Toro de Oro. Andale. Pronto. 
Walls turns up the radio, drums his hands against the wheel. 
DISPATCHER Okay, units, it's suicide hour. Fourteen Boy, I show you in the hospital sixty minutes but I know you're in the diner on 14th. Put down the burger, I got a call for you around the corner, 14 and 3rd, a man with a noose around his neck and nothing to hang it on. Sixteen XRay, don't even think about getting coffee, I have a call for you too. 
WALLS (on radio) Sixteen XTerminator here. We like our coffee bloody. Make it good--my partner's dying to help someone. 
DISPATCHER You're in luck, X: your patient awaits you with bleeding wrists on Avenue C and Fourth. 
Frank pulls the IV needle out of his arm, searches the glove compartment: 
FRANK Tom, where are the Band-aids? This is an ambulance, isn't it? 
WALLS (hitting the gas) Look out! 
16 XRay lurches forward. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. AVENUE C AND 4TH--NIGHT 
16 XRay brakes to a stop before a duster of derelicts, junkies and night people. Two DRUNKS are trying to help a friend with CUT WRISTS. 
WALLS What the hell's going on? 
DRUNK #1 You've gotta take him to the hospital. He tried to kill himself. Show him your wrist. Show A. 
Cut Wrists gets up, leans against the ambulance, shaking. 
DRUNK #1 (CONT'D) See, he ain't right. 
WALLS Hold it. I will not take anyone anywhere against his will. This is America. People have rights. 
DRUNK #2 He was bleeding before. He kept spilling his beer. I gave him mouth- to-mouth. 
WALLS You're lucky you didn't kill him. (to Cut Wrists) We're going to hear it straight from the loony's mouth. Are you crazy? Did you try to bump yourself off? 
CUT WRISTS (salivatory) Yesssss. 
DISPATCHER First of all, I want you to know how sorry I am about this. I've always liked you two. A unit above none, a legend in its own lunchtime, so it hurts me deeply to do this but I have no choice. You must go to Second and St. Marks. In front of a liquor store you'll find a forty year-old male, unconscious, lying next to his wheelchair. Do I have to say more? 
FRANK (to radio) You've said too much already. 
WALLS Mr. Oh. 
FRANK It's early for him. 
WALLS That's all right, we're not meant to do Oh tonight. Something is going to happen. I can feel it. 
Tom hears something on the police band: a call for units to Stuyvesant Town. 
WALLS (CONT'D) Bingo. (keys police walkie) EMS to Central. What was that call? 
POLICE DISPATCH A jumper. Stuyvesant Town. 
WALLS Ten-four.   One minute out. 
DISPATCHER Sixteen, Sixteen XRay. Level One Emergency. 
But they're not listening--Frank's off to Stuyvesant Town. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. STUYVESANT TOWN--NIGHT 
Police cars, fire engines, a massive Emergency Service rescue truck all flashing dome lights on the street, on the plaza surrounding Cy Coates' building: cops, Swat team, spotlights, onlookers. 
Frank and Tom, getting out, looking up: the spotlit figure of Cy Coates, thirteen floors above, suspended on a railing, legs dangling. 
WALLS Whadda we bring? 
FRANK Better bring it all. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LOBBY--NIGHT 
Frank and Tom, lugging their equipment, meet up with cops, firemen and their rescue equipment. 
FRANK The elevator's fucked. We'd never all fit anyway. Let's go. 
FIREMAN That's thirteen flights. 
WALLS The news guys just pulled up. 
POLICE SERGEANT The stairs, men, the stairs. 
The Sergeant leads a half dozen cops and firemen up the stairs as the elevator doors open. Tom, Frank and two COPS squeeze inside. 
WALLS This guy a jumper? 
COP We got a call for shots fired on the sixteenth floor. The jumper called right after. 
FRANK (to Walls) I'm going to sixteen. 
As the elevator doors close. 
CUT TO: 
INT. THE OASIS--NIGHT 
Frank steps out with the officers. The door to 16M is open: Kanita lies half in, half out the door, a perfectly round hole above her eye, splinters of bone and blood down the side of her nose. 
COATES (CONT'D) Isn't it beautiful? When the fires start to fall, then the strongest rule it all. I love this city. 
The torch breaks the spike free: Frank and Coates FREE FALL three feet, jerk to a stop. Cy yelps. The crowd cheers from below. 
Frank now grabbing, holding Coates tightly--Frank's hands the only thing keeping Coates from falling--as the cops hoist them up. 
COP (to Frank) Good thing we buckled you in, huh? 
COATES What about me? Who's supposed to buckle me? 
COP (to 2nd cop) I thought you did. 
2ND COP I thought you did. 
COP (to Coates) I'm so sorry, sir. 
The cops lift Frank and Coates onto the balcony. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT 
16 XRay parked in front. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MERCY CRITICAL CARE--NIGHT 
Frank walking out of the restroom wiping water off his face, looking at the gurney where Coates lies on his side, metal spike still sticking through his hip, IV line running to his arm, eyes closed. Nurses walk past Coates: he's stabilized, waiting his turn. CY, take a number. 
Frank spots Hazmat at Burke's cubicle, walks over. 
HAZMAT Nurse Crupp, we're going to need some Valium here. He's waking up again. 
The ventilator alarm goes off as Burke pulls at his restraints. 
HAZMAT (CONT'D) (urgent) Where's that Valium? 
Nurse Crupp walks briskly over, injects needle into one of Burke's IV bags. 
Burke's voice speaks in Frank's head: 
BURKE'S VOICE Don't. Don't do it. 
HAZMAT Give me a hand, Frank. I've got to get something between those teeth. 
Frank helps Hazmat force in a bite stick. The monitor alarm cuts off, the ventilator starts up again, pumping air in, pulling air out. 
HAZMAT (CONT'D) You can't believe how much he's improved. 
FRANK How many times have you shocked him tonight? 
HAZMAT Fourteen. We finally got him a room upstairs. Should be up there in a couple of hours. 
FRANK What do you do, just have someone follow him around with a defribilator? 
HAZMAT (laughs) That's good, Frank. No, but they might surgically implant one, about the size of my thumb. It goes near the shoulder here, with two electrodes connected to the heart. It sends a shock whenever it senses a drop in blood flow. Amazing, isn't it? 
FRANK A medical miracle. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MERCY WAITING ROOM--NIGHT 
DISPATCHER Sixteen XRay, a man at the bus terminal shot three years ago says his arm hurts. 
Frank looks at a group of girls exiting an after-hours club: every one a Rose. Rose faces. 
FRANK C'mon, Tom, pick up a job. 
WALLS You want some bum in the bus terminal? We'll wait for a real call. 
FRANK Let's get in a fight, then. 
WALLS Who with? 
FRANK That's your job. Just keep driving, keep moving. No stopping. We're sharks. We stop too long, we die. 
Walls hits the accelerator: the old bus jerks forward: 
FRANK (CONT'D) Let's break something, Tom. Let's bust something, bomb something. 
WALLS What do you want to break? 
FRANK (taking a drink) I don't know--let's break some windows. 
WALLS Why? 
FRANK Destruction, distraction. I feel the need. 
WALLS You need a reason, Frank. You don't just go around breaking people's windows. That's anarchy. 
FRANK What's the reason? Give me a reason, Tom. 
WALLS Let me think. 
Tom hits the siren as he swings wildly around a stopped cab and its turban-headed driver: 
WALLS (CONT'D) Classic cabbie move. (to driver) Hey, swammy, that's called a crosswalk. You stop before it, not on it! 
Walls turns onto a cross street, spots Noel standing by a Mustang, baseball bat on his shoulder. He wears yesterday's blood-stained clothes, cut tires tied to his shoulders and elbows, chest and belly wrapped with steel wire. 
WALLS (CONT'D) I know who to work over. Him. 
Walls slows as Noel lifts the bat, swings it into the Mustang's front window, shattering it, puts the bat down, using it like a cane as he walks to the next parked car. 
WALLS (CONT'D) This guy's been terrorizing the neighborhood for weeks, ever since he got outta jail, wreaking general havoc, contributing to the bad name of the place. The term "menace to society" was made up for him. 
FRANK He's crazy. He can't help it. 
WALLS (stops ambulance) Well, why don't they put him away? Prisons don't want him. I took him to the hospital yesterday and here he is again. 
Noel reaches the next car, a Bronco, carefully hefts the bat, smashes it through the windshield. 
WALLS (CONT'D) Look at that. Tell me that's a crazy person. Every move is calculated. He knows exactly what he's doing. This is the guy. I've been after him for weeks. He's quick, runs like a rat, tough for one person, but with two of us-- 
FRANK Okay, whatta I do? 
WALLS If he sees me, he'll run, so I'll get out here. You start talking to him about baseball or something while I sneak around behind and get down and you push him. When he falls we get him. 
FRANK That's ridiculous. 
WALLS Believe me, it always works. The simpler, the better. 
FRANK You learn that in the army? 
FRANK (CONT'D) Flatbush. 
Frank stands back, watching Walls and Noel like some static black and white TV screen from his childhood. Noel, trying to protect himself, cries out. 
WALLS (CONT'D) (swinging bat) To the moon, Alice! You little motherfucker! 
Frank charges forward into Walls, sending Tom, the baseball bat flying. Walls on the ground. Frank bends over Noel: Noel's face covered with blood, gasping for air, blowing red bubbles, convulsing. 
FRANK (to Walls) Get the kit! We're gonna tube him! 
WALLS Frank! 
FRANK Do it! 
WALLS (standing) Frank! 
FRANK (to Noel) We're gonna save you, Noel. You're gonna be all right. (to Walls) Do it, Tom! I'll call for fucking backup, I swear! 
WALLS You're crazy. 
Noel unconscious: Tom hurries down the alley toward the ambulance as Frank opens Noel's mouth. 
FRANK You're going to make it! You're going to make it! 
Pressing Noel's chest, Frank lowers his mouth, starts CPR. His mouth to Noel's. In the distance: Walls' footsteps returning. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT 
16 XRay parked out front: the sky is going blue. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MERCY ER--NIGHT 
Frank and Tom, their shirts blood-stained, pushing Noel down Skid Row, past Griss, past Nurse Constance. Tom wheels, Frank carries the IV bag. 
NURSE CONSTANCE Take him straight through. 
GRISS Who got that funky motherfucker this time? 
FRANK (to Nurse Constance) Last show of the night. 
HAZMAT (arriving) Jesus Christ. Nurse Crupp! (to Frank) Anybody else hurt? 
FRANK No. 
HAZMAT Crazy fucker. 
Walls pushes Noel into unit one. Frank looks over to unit three--Burke's cubicle is empty. 
FRANK Where's Burke? 
HAZMAT Upstairs. 212. Had to shock him twice more. 
Frank nods, walks out. Behind, Walls helps Hazmat and Crupp place Noel on a bed. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ROOM 212--NIGHT 
Frank Pierce walks down the hospital corridor, steps into room 212. 
Burke lies, tubed, wired and tied to life support. Blue light comes through the window. On the EKG monitor: a slow steady green endless line: up, down. 
