BURIED 
Written by 
Chris Sparling 
FADE IN: 
INT. UNKNOWN ROOM - NIGHT 
Darkness. Silence. After a long beat, we hear movement, confined and contained. We then hear the sound of a man, PAUL CONROY, groaning, making confused attempts at words. We hear his movement; short, abrupt shifting, ending almost immediately with the sound of his body banging against wood. He screams, though it's clear from the sound that his mouth is covered by something. After attempting to sit up, he immediately bangs his head against something. It's terribly warm and his breaths are labored. He attempts to move to his left and right, only to find that he is confined on those sides, as well. He frantically shifts about, only to discover, by touch, that he is encased in something. Something is very wrong, and he doesn't need to see to know that. Finally, we see him, lit by the flame of the Zippo he holds in his hands, which are bound together in front of him with rope. A rolled-up, dirty rag is tied tightly around his head, stretched across his mouth. Dried blood stains his hair and forehead. 
We see that he is lying in an old fashioned, wooden coffin. Nothing more than a few rotted-out planks of wood nailed together. Realizing the same, Paul is struck by an overwhelming, instant panic. With great difficulty, and while still holding the lit Zippo, Paul removes the muzzle from his mouth. 
PAUL What...? What is this? His words become almost unintelligible as he flails about, though fear is understood in his every utterance. He screams aloud, but his voice is captured by the coffin walls. 
PAUL Oh my God! Help me!! Help me!! He kicks and slams his hands against the top and sides of the coffin, all to no avail. His violent movements cause small grains of sand to trickle in through the space between the sides and top of the coffin, as well as a small gap that exists between one of the coffin's broken wooden planks. Sweat cascades down the side of his neck, dripping from his dampened brow. The heat inside the extremely close confines of the coffin is stifling. 
PAUL (CONT'D) Somebody help me! Please!! Paul continues with his futile efforts to pry off the top of the coffin. The sides, the top, the bottom -- all are too thoroughly reinforced by the force of what surrounds the coffin. Sand. It becomes clear to him that he is buried. He tries his best to calm himself, though he has trouble catching his breath. It takes him some time, but he eventually achieves some semblance of calm. Getting a good look at him for the first time, we see that Paul is somewhere around 37 years old. Unshaven and physically unremarkable, he embodies the blue-collar American everyman. He coughs. The minimal amount of oxygen in the coffin makes it hard for him to breathe. His eyes widen a bit upon seeing an exposed, rusty nail. He tries desperately to use the nail to cut through the old, frayed ropes that bind his hands. Doing so is no easy task. The incredibly tight quarters makes his every action nearly impossible. After a lengthy struggle, the rope snaps. Paul quickly frees his hands. A small victory. Very small. The heat is unbearable. Paul takes off his button-down shirt, leaving him in a T-shirt. His body battles against the walls and the ceiling of the coffin with every move he makes. He tosses his button-down shirt down by his feet. His undershirt is drenched through with sweat. Still trying to calm himself, but having little success in doing so, Paul looks around the coffin. His feet, though only his body-length away, seem miles from him. 
He looks at the top of the coffin, and then back at his feet. With great difficulty, he shifts his body so that his feet are pressed against the top of the coffin. He attempts to use his leg strength to push the top off of him, but it doesn't move even a millimeter. After several failed attempts, and with his legs exhausted, Paul drops his feet from the top of the coffin. He lay for a moment in silence, followed by an outburst of crying. Close to his head, on the corner of the floor, we see there's another broken plank. A small hole. He closes his cigarette lighter, extinguishing the flame. In total darkness, he continues to cry. 
PAUL (CONT'D) What is this? With his sobbing slowly subsiding, the coffin soon grows eerily silent. The sound of Paul's labored breaths are all we hear, softened under the blanket of absolute darkness. After a beat, the silence is interrupted by a subtle buzzing sound. The muted sight of strange, blueish light flickers in the coffin, by Paul's feet. He is extremely startled. The buzzing continues, as does the minimal splashing of light. It's coming from underneath his discarded button-down shirt, down near his feet. He lights the Zippo to get a better look. 
Pulling the shirt away, he realizes that what he is hearing and seeing is the vibrating ring and display features of an older model cell phone. He frantically reaches for it, though the coffin is far too small for him to reposition himself so easily. To his dismay, the phone stops ringing. But, his efforts to reach it continue. He uses his feet to search for the phone. After some trouble finding it, he eventually locates it. Clamping the phone together between his clasped feet, Paul then painfully angles his body so that he can reach his feet with his hands and grab it. He is soon able to reach it. Immediately thereafter, he flips open the phone and puts the receiver in front of him. 
We see that there is a Text Message waiting for Paul on the phone. However, Paul barely notices. The time on the phone reads 6:12pm. While the numbers and display screen icons are familiar to Americans, all the words are in Arabic. What he does notices is that the phone barely has one bar of signal strength. Worse yet, there is only half of the battery life remaining. He tries to remember the Safe Number he was given. With the phone open and ready to be dialed, Paul struggles to recall the information. 
PAUL (CONT'D) Come on, come on. What was it? 
Getting only two digits into dialing the number, he cannot remember much more and closes the phone. He wedges the lit Zippo into sand, which is compacted against a small hole in the wall of the coffin. Paul reaches into his pants pocket, frantically searching for something. He hastily removes a prescription pill bottle and a small, metal flask. Both are not what he was looking for. He then reaches to his back pocket and removes his wallet. It's empty. His license, his credit cards, his cash and, most importantly at that very moment, a piece of paper with the Safe Number written on it, are all missing. 
PAUL (CONT'D) No. Where the hell is it? Son of a...Come on! 
He screams aloud again, hoping greatly that someone can hear him. His frenzied maneuvering puts out the flame of the Zippo. 
PAUL (CONT'D) Help me! Please! Somebody help me! His words barely make it pass the coffin walls. With the cell phone still in hand, and laboring to reclaim the breath he just expended, Paul turns to desperation. He dials the international code of 001, and then dials 911. A FEMALE 911 OPERATOR answers almost immediately. 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR 911, please hold. The Female 911 Operator places Paul on hold. 
PAUL No! Wait! Paul accidentally bangs the cap of the Zippo against the coffin wall, putting out the flame. She quickly returns. 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR 911. What is your emergency? 
PAUL I was put here. 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR In the coffin? 
PAUL Yes. Please send help. 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR And you're saying the coffin is buried? 
PAUL I think so. It's...it's hot in here. I can't breathe. 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR Do you know your location, sir? 
PAUL I told you, I don't know. Somewhere in Iraq. 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR Iraq? 
PAUL Yes. I'm a truck driver, an American. I work for CRT. 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR Are you a soldier, sir? 
PAUL No. Please, please listen to me. I'm a truck driver. I work for CRT. I'm a civilian contractor working in Iraq. We were attacked in Baqubah, they...they... 
(STARTS CRYING) ...shot them. All of them. 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR They shot who, sir? 
PAUL All of the other drivers. 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR And you're saying this happened in Iraq? The country? 
PAUL Yes. Please, you have to help me. They gave me a safety number to call, but I had it stored in my wallet and -- 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR Mister Conroy, this is 911 emergency in Youngstown, Ohio. 
PAUL Ohio? 
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR Yes, sir. I'm not sure exactly how you called here if you're in another country, but if you'd like, I can patch you through to the Sheriff's Department. 
PAUL Sheriff's Department? No...you don't underst... 
(GIVING UP) ...forget it. Realizing that his conversation is both lengthy and useless, Paul ends the call. He checks the battery life on the phone. It still holds steady at two bars. He immediately dials another number, one that he can recall with ease. He again enters the 001 international code before making the call. Paul then dials his home phone. It rings several times, so far unanswered. 
PAUL Come on, come on. Pick up. Please. After sitting through the agony of a few more rings, Paul is met with the answering machine. 
PAUL Hello? Is this the F.B.I.? 
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS Yes it is, sir. 
PAUL I'm calling from Iraq. I'm buried in the desert somewhere. I need you to help me -- 
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS Whoa, whoa, sir. Slow down. When were you in Iraq? 
PAUL Now. I'm there now. I'm a truck driver for CRT. I've been here for nine months. 
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS May I have your name please, sir? 
PAUL Paul Conroy. 
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS (saying it as he writes it 
DOWN) Paul Conroy. (back on the phone) Okay, Paul, explain to me what's going on. 
Paul attempts to center himself so that he can accurately tell his story. 
PAUL Alright. Me and a convoy of other drivers were delivering kitchen parts to a community center. As we got closer, a bunch of kids started throwing rocks at our trucks. Then an IED went off up ahead and blew up one of the other trucks. These guys came out from behind the houses with guns and started shooting everybody right there on the street. 
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS Were you shot at? 
PAUL I don't know! (after a breath, calmer) I don't know. I was way in the back of the convoy. I must have got hit in the head with one of the rocks and got knocked out. That's the last thing I remember. But now I just woke up, and I was tied up and buried in a coffin. 
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS Who put you there? 
PAUL I guess whoever ambushed us. 
Special Agent Harris sounds slightly skeptical of Paul's claims. 
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS A bunch of kids? 
PAUL No, you're not listening. The kids threw the rocks at us, but then some Iraqi guys -- maybe insurgents, I don't fucking know -- popped out of nowhere and started shooting at us. 
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS I thought you said they didn't shoot at you. 
PAUL They didn't, I don't know! But they shot them! 
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS Sir, you're going to have to stop shouting if -- 
PAUL I'm shouting because you're not listening! I need you to help me! Please!! 
CRT OPERATOR Director of Personnel. Please hold. 
PAUL Personnel? No, I need to talk -- Paul is placed on hold. Synthesized soft rock plays in the background of the phone, maddening Paul further. Over the music, a CRT SPOKESMAN is heard, speaking a recorded testimonial during the on-hold message. 
CRT SPOKESMAN At CRT, we work with our clients to provide effective and sustainable solutions to the challenges they face in our fast-growing, global economy. As the premiere... 
The message is interrupted by ALAN DAVENPORT's outgoing voice message. 
ALAN DAVENPORT You've reached Alan Davenport, personnel director at Crestin, Roland and Thomas. Please leave your name and number at the tone and I will return your call as soon as possible. The BEEP sounds. Paul is confused as to why he was patched through to someone in human resources, but leaves a message nevertheless. 
PAUL This is Paul Conroy, I'm from Hastings, Michigan. I'm a driver for CRT, and my convoy was ambushed...by insurgents or terrorists. I don't know. I don't know who it was. I'm stuck in the ground, buried in a coffin and I need help. Please send help. I'm begging you. I think I'm in Baqubah in the Diyala Provence. Please send help right away. I can't breathe in here. I can't...please. I'm begging you. I don't know who else to call. 
I... 
Paul notices that his phone has again lost signal. 
PAUL (CONT'D) 
(EXASPERATED) ...fuck. Paul drops the phone to his side, the screen still emitting its glow. He explodes with a mixture of rage and fear. He screams and flails his feet and hands wildly, banging them against the walls of the coffin. His animalistic outburst causes the phone to close. The coffin returns to pitch black. After a long beat, Paul lights the Zippo, which remains wedged in the sand compacted against the small hole in the wall of the coffin. 
Paul takes a few moments to catch his breath. He looks again at the cell phone. Remembers receiving a Text Message. The icon on the phone's display indicates that he does, in fact, have an unread Text Message waiting for him. Paul quickly scrolls through the phone's menu, which is all written in Arabic, until he reaches what appears to be the Text Message option. Opening it, he sees a series of ten numbers. Using his click-up pencil, he scribbles the numbers onto the top of the coffin. Next to the number, he writes the word "HELP?" Noticing that his phone has again picked-up a signal, he dials the number. 
It rings once, but then the reception begins to falter. After only two rings, the call is ended. Paul's frustration mounts. He is barely able to fight off another fit of hysterics. He dials the number again. It rings once. A second ring. In the middle of the third ring, someone answers -- but they do not say anything. 
PAUL Hello? Hello? Is anyone there? Hello? After a beat, Paul hears breathing on the other end of the phone. He also hears a discordance of background sound; the din of a room filled with Arabic-speaking men. 
PAUL (CONT'D) Hello? Who are you? Please, you have to help me. Still, Paul's words are only met with slow, measured breaths. 
PAUL (CONT'D) Who is this? Hello? The person on the other end eventually speaks. An Iraqi man, JABIR, talks forcefully and aggressively in broken English. 
JABIR Breathe no breathe, American? Ah? Breathe no breathe? 
PAUL What? I don't know what you're saying. Who is this? 
JABIR American can breathe no breathe? 
PAUL No, I can't breathe. Please get me out of here. 
JABIR Get out? 
PAUL Yes, please get me out. Help me. 
JABIR Soldier. 
INT. COFFIN - MOMENTS LATER 
The Zippo lights. Paul holds it in his hand, using it to illuminate the inside of the coffin. He attempts to push it into its now customary resting place, but the sand has loosened, making it difficult for the Zippo to stay in place. It almost falls to the floor. 
Looking around, Paul sees there is a crack between two planks, located on the opposite wall of the coffin. He wedges the lit Zippo into the crack. With his hands now free, Paul haphazardly positions himself so that his back is facing the top of the coffin. His every move is arduous; the claustrophobic nature of the coffin bearing down on him. Paul positions his bent knees underneath his chest, with his shins and feet pressed against the bottom of the coffin. Using the strength of his legs, he attempts to lift the top off the coffin with his back. Trickles of sand fall in from the side of the coffin, sprinkling against the wooden base. 
He fails, only to immediately try again. And again. And again. Exhaustion sets in. Staring ahead, the phone sits in front of him. He notices that the battery life bars are still at one solid and one blinking. He grabs the cell phone, staring at it, trying to think of someone else to call. The battery life is limited. Every call has to count. He tries to remember some phone numbers, but has trouble recalling the information. 
PAUL 
(TO HIMSELF) Come on, what's her number? 
He cannot remember the number he's thinking of. He notices that the flame of the Zippo flickers, indicating its use of his much-needed oxygen. Paul closes the lid, extinguishing the flame. A second later, we see him, lit by the cell phone display screen. He dials the international code for the United States, followed by 411 information. A MALE 411 OPERATOR answers. 
MALE 411 OPERATOR What city and listing, please? 
PAUL Hastings, Michigan. I'm looking for Donna Mitchell. 
MALE 411 OPERATOR I have two Donna Mitchells, sir. One on Federal Road and one on Ardmore Avenue. 
PAUL Ardmore Avenue...I think. Yeah. Shit, I don't know. Just give me that one. 
MALE 411 OPERATOR Ardmore Avenue? 
PAUL Yes, Ardmore Avenue. 
MALE 411 OPERATOR Please hold for your number. Paul is switched to an AUTOMATED MESSAGE. 
AUTOMATED MESSAGE The number you requested, 269-948- 1998 can automatically be dialed for a charge of twenty-five cents by pressing the number one. Paul writes Donna's number and name on the top of the coffin and then presses the number one. He is connected. Her phone rings and rings. Paul's frustration is evident. 
PAUL Come on! Where the hell is everyone? 
The phone rings some more. Paul checks the battery life -- still at one and a half bars. DONNA eventually answers. 
DONNA Hello? Hearing her voice, Paul hurriedly places the phone to his ear. 
PAUL Donna, it's Paul. 
DONNA Hey, how's it going? 
PAUL Where's Linda? She's not answering her phone. I need to talk to her, I've been taken hostage by... Donna interrupts. We realize, as does Paul, that her voice was actually coming from her answering machine. 
DONNA 
DONNA What? It takes every ounce of Paul's being to keep himself from going off the deep end. He takes a beat to compose himself and then finally offers a very delicate and deliberate response. 
PAUL Donna, I'm very sorry I yelled. But, I'm only going to ask you once more to get me this number. If you don't get me this number, I'm going to die. 
DONNA What? 
PAUL I don't have time to explain. Please...the number. 
DONNA 
(BEAT) Hold on. We hear Donna put down the phone. In the b.g., we hear the sound of keys being pressed on a computer keyboard. After a beat, she picks the phone back up. 
DONNA (CONT'D) Okay...State Department. It's 202- 
PAUL 
DONNA Yeah. Paul writes the number on the top of the coffin, beneath the man others. He writes the initials "S.D." next to it. 
DONNA What the hell's going -- Paul hangs up on Donna mid-sentence. He dials the number the State Department right away. A STATE DEPARTMENT REP answers after a few rings. 
STATE DEPARTMENT REP United States Department of State. 
PAUL I'm an American citizen, working in Iraq. I've been taken hostage. I need to speak to someone right away. 
STATE DEPARTMENT REP Where are you calling from, sir? 
PAUL From Iraq. I'm a truck driver for CRT -- Crestin, Roland and Thomas. We were attacked and now I'm being held for ransom. 
STATE DEPARTMENT REP Are the kidnappers with you? 
PAUL No. I'm buried somewhere. 
STATE DEPARTMENT REP You're buried? 
PAUL Yeah, in a coffin, a wooden box. It's an old coffin, I think. 
STATE DEPARTMENT REP Did you try contacting the military out there? 
PAUL I don't have the number. 
STATE DEPARTMENT REP What number? 
PAUL I was given a number to call, a safety number. But the people took it. 
PAUL Well, since you know what the hell is going on, what have you done to get me out of here? 
REBECCA There's little we can do from Washington. 
PAUL So, that's it? I'm just supposed to rot in here because there's little you can do? 
REBECCA No. 
PAUL Then what? 
REBECCA I need to know where you were when your convoy was ambushed. 
PAUL In the Diyala Provence. In Baqubah. 
REBECCA Okay. And has contact been made with the kidnappers? 
PAUL Yes. The guy told me that he wants five million dollars by nine o'clock tonight. 
REBECCA Or else...? 
PAUL Or else he'll bring me to Sea World. What do you think, lady? Even faced with Paul's sarcasm, Rebecca remains stolid. Professional. 
REBECCA We'll do everything we can. 
PAUL So you'll pay them? 
REBECCA 
(BEAT) No. That we can't do. 
PAUL Wait...what? 
REBECCA It's the policy of the United States government to not negotiate with terrorists. 
PAUL To hell with that! It's easy for you to worry about policy, you're sitting in an air conditioned office somewhere, probably finishing up your sandwich from lunch. You're not the one stuck in a coffin, buried in the God damn desert! 
REBECCA I understand your frustration -- 
PAUL Frustration? Lady, I'm going to fucking die in here. Understand that! Rebecca is silent on the other end of the phone. Paul wonders if she is still there. The idea of being alone again scares him terribly. 
PAUL (CONT'D) Hello? Worried, Paul lights the Zippo. The reflection of the flame dances on his frightened eyes. 
REBECCA I'm here. 
REBECCA No, I'm covering yours. Everyone who needs to know about this does. 
PAUL You don't go looking for something if you don't know it's missing. 
REBECCA That's why you need to contact Dan Brenner right away. Paul still contemplates contacting the news, but soon acquiesces to Rebecca's pleas for him not to. 
PAUL Fine. 
REBECCA I'm transferring you now. 
Rebecca's gone. Paul waits. Several beeps sound as he's being transferred. Paul hears a faint sound coming from behind him, outside the coffin. While the beeps continue to sound, he lights the Zippo, circumspectly looking behind him. He doesn't see anything. With the Zippo still lit, Paul takes a deep, centering breath, followed by another. A few more long beeps pass before a ring is heard. After two rings, DAN BRENNER answers. 
DAN Brenner. 
PAUL Dan Brenner? 
Dan is quick to figure out who it is that must be calling him. 
DAN Is this Paul Conroy? 
PAUL 
(EXCITED) Yes, yes it's me. It's Paul. 
DAN Paul, I was informed of what's going on. I want you to know that we're already working on trying to get you out of there. 
Paul is relieved. His first glint of hope has appeared. Tears of joy instantly escape his eyes. 
PAUL Oh, thank you, God. 
DAN I was told that we have until 9pm. Is that right? 
PAUL That's what he said. 
DAN Alright. That doesn't give us a whole lot of time. And just so I have this right, the kidnappers buried you in the ground? 
PAUL Yeah, in an old, wooden coffin. 
DAN Okay. My guess is that since you're able to get a cell signal, you're no more than a few feet underground. 
PAUL I don't know. Maybe. 
DAN What about battery life? How much does the phone have left? Paul looks at the display to find out. 
DAN The kidnapper? 
PAUL Yeah. What do I do? 
DAN You know his number? 
PAUL Yeah. 
DAN Give it to me. 
PAUL What about the call? 
DAN Give me the number first. The phone has rung several times. Paul fears that Jabir may hang up. 
PAUL He's going to hang up. 
DAN Take the call. 
PAUL 
BUT -- 
DAN Take the call. Now. Paul complies with Dan's demand and switches to the other line. 
PAUL Hello. 
JABIR Two hour, six minute. Paul looks at his watch. Indeed, he has but two hours and six minutes until the time reaches 9pm. 
PAUL You have to give me more time. 
JABIR You talk to embassy? They give money? 
PAUL Yes. No. I talked to...someone. Government. They said that they won't pay the money. 
JABIR No pay? 
PAUL No. They said that they don't negotiate with terrorists. 
JABIR Terrorists? I am terrorist? 
PAUL Yes. You are terrorist, you son of a bitch. 
JABIR You are terrified, so I am terrorist? 
JABIR (after a beat) One million money. Jabir hangs up, ending the call. Paul sits motionless for a moment, soaking in all that Jabir has just told him. He again looks down toward his feet. He can see the protruding corner of the metal box, but it's positioned in such a way that it will clearly not be easy for him to reach it. Paul then tries to clasp the box with his feet, but after several unsuccessful attempts, he realizes that a new strategy is necessary. 
He makes efforts to reposition himself in the coffin, so that his head and feet will ultimately switch places. He struggles, inch by troubled inch, to make this maneuver. Sweat pours down the side of his face. The extremely tight quarters of the coffin make the repositioning nearly impossible. After expending a great deal of energy doing so, Paul eventually completes the turn of his body. He examines the small, rusted metal box. On it is a cartoon picture of a small Arab boy and girl playing with a red rubber ball. Skeptical at first, Paul carefully examines the box and shakes it gently. Items are heard rummaging inside. He carefully opens it. A fluorescent green light shines from inside. Paul looks inside and finds a lit, green glow stick, fluorescing brightly and now illuminating much of the coffin. He closes the lid of the Zippo. Removes the stick. Looking into the small box again, he finds several other items: a small, disused flashlight; a second, unlit glow stick; a jackknife; and lastly, a folded piece of paper. He slowly unfolds the piece of paper. We see that his ransom message is written in an unintelligible mix of English and Arabic. Paul shakes his head and lets out a sigh of disgust. He crumbles up the paper into a ball and listlessly drops it to his side. He covers his face with his hands, his labored breaths echoing in his palms. 
Under the low-light of the green glow stick, Paul picks up the phone and dials his home. Per usual, he gets the answering machine. His son, Shane, is heard on outgoing message. 
SHANE Thanks for calling the Conroy's. We're not home right now. Please leave a message at the beep. Thanks. Paul's eyes well up with tears. He smiles at the sound of his son's voice. The Beep is heard. Paul hangs up without leaving a message. He looks at the time. It's 7:02pm. Battery life is holding steady at one and a half bars. He remembers something. 
PAUL Shit. Paul presses and holds down the shortcut button on the phone that changes the ringer from vibrate to an audible tone. The glow stick begins to slowly fade. Paul dials Dan Brenner. After a few rings, Dan answers. 
DAN Paul? 
PAUL Here's his number... 
Paul presses the green key, bringing up the last numbers dialed and received. 
DAN Hold on. Alright, go ahead. 
PAUL It's 07902-24-921. Dan says something to someone who is in the room with him, and then returns his attention to Paul. 
DAN This is huge. Unless they're using a cloned line, we should be able to find where this is coming from in minutes. 
PAUL What about me? Can you track my cell signal? 
DAN We're having a lot of trouble with yours. Seems to be an EDS line, probably through one of the Egyptian carriers. 
PAUL What does that mean? 
DAN That...it's not going to be easy. 
PAUL He wants me to make a ransom video. 
DAN No. Hold off for as long as you can. 
PAUL If it's going to get me out of here, I'm making it. 
DAN The last thing we want is for this to end up all over Al Jazeera. 
PAUL We? Paul becomes angry, again sensing that more emphasis is being placed on containing the situation than rescuing him. 
DAN This can't turn into an international incident. 
PAUL That's all you people care about! But what about me? Don't you care about me? 
DAN Trust me, if it was an option, I would do that in a heartbeat. 
PAUL How many others have there been? 
DAN Since I got here? Hundreds. Journalists, contractors, soldiers...hundreds have been taken. It's one of the only functioning businesses out here. 
PAUL How many have you rescued? Dan is reluctant to answer the question. 
PAUL (CONT'D) How many? 
DAN 
(BEAT) Not many. 
PAUL Tell me their names. 
DAN Who? 
PAUL Any of them. Make me know they really do matter to you. 
DAN Mark White. 
PAUL Who was Mark White? 
DAN A kid from New Hampshire. Twenty- six years old. Med student. Came over here to help out local doctors. 
PAUL What happened to him? 
DAN Insurgents grabbed him. 
PAUL When? 
DAN About three weeks ago. Paul writes "MARK WHITE" on the top of the coffin, below the list of phone numbers. He circles the name. 
PAUL You remember his name. 
DAN I remember all their names. 
PAUL (afraid to ask) Did he...? Is he...? The glow stick begins to fade. 
DAN Yeah. Yeah, Paul, he's alive. Hearing this affords Paul some semblance of relief. Paul shakes the glow stick, returning it to its full strength. 
PAUL Where is he? 
PAUL Yeah, I sent...never mind. Listen, I...I'm going to go now. I just wanted to talk to you, you know, just to say bye. I love you, Mom. Maryanne doesn't respond. 
PAUL(CONT'D) Did you hear me? Mom? I told you...do you want to tell me you 
LOVE -- 
MARYANNE Yes, dear. Your father and I have been playing gin rummy every night. 
PAUL (after a beat) Okay, Mom. Tell Pop I said hi. Paul ends the call and instantly begins crying his heart out. He lays there, sobbing relentlessly. After a long beat, the cell phone rings. Decidedly different than his past reactions to an incoming call, Paul seems hopelessly disinterested. The ring is maddening. He mindlessly presses the shortcut button, resetting the ring to vibrate mode. He eventually picks up the phone, but there is not anyone on the other end. It's then that he sees that it was not a call that came in, but instead was a picture message. Pressing what appears to be the Accept button, the incoming picture begins to download. Several seconds later, the picture downloads and an image appears on the display of Paul's cell phone. It's of a woman -- bound and gagged, a gun pressed against the side of her head. 
PAUL Oh no. No, no, no! Paul frantically dials the number to reach Jabir. As soon as the phone connects, Paul begins his desperate plea. 
JABIR Video make? 
PAUL Let her go. Please. Please don't hurt her. The Woman is heard in the background of Jabir's phone, crying muffled words through her muzzled mouth. 
JABIR We shoot her if you no make video. 
PAUL No! No, please no shoot. No shoot her. 
JABIR You get money. American million. 
PAUL I will, I promise. Just don't shoot her. She's a mother, she's got two kids. 
JABIR Two kids? 
PAUL Yes. She has two kids. 
JABIR I have five. Now only one. You make video. Now!! 
PAUL Wait... 
JABIR No wait!! I give three seconds. 
PAUL I can't read the paper. 
JABIR Three... 
PAUL No. Wait! 
JABIR Two... 
PAUL I don't know what you want me to say! 
(MORE) 
PAUL (CONT'D) Please call me as soon as you get this. I love you...I love you. Call me right away. Please. Paul hangs up. He looks at the battery life left on the phone. One bar. He then checks his watch. It's 8:19pm. Both are not good signs, and he knows it. 
PAUL (CONT'D) Oh shit. He begins to panic. Grabbing the pocket knife that was left inside the metal box, he slides the blade in the space between the sides of the coffin and the top. Paul grabs the glow stick. But, because it was partially melted to the floor, the stick snaps in two. Liquid oozes out of the small portion of the stick that remains stuck the floor. 
PAUL Son of a... Paul grabs the flashlight. Turns it on. It works for a second, but then goes out. Shaking it only produces intermittent beams of light. He turns the top, switching to the red bulb. It works. The coffin fills with a reddish hue, but then it, too, goes out. Growing incensed, Paul switches back to the white bulb. It works. He returns his attention to the coffin. His efforts to use the knife as a fulcrum are futile. Still, he tries. Bending the blade well past its design, it nearly breaks off its handle. The flashlight turns off. After a good shaking, it turns back on, emitting white light. With oxygen levels extremely diminished, efforts of this kind are all too much for Paul to take. He has to stop and try to catch his breath. As he endeavors to get his wind back, the cell phone rings. Not a call this time, but instead a video message. It has been sent by Jabir. Paul's trepidation is evident. He fears what the incoming video may show. 
After a beat, he presses the Accept button and the video downloads. Within seconds, the video plays on his phone display screen. We see, in the video, the American Woman that previously appeared in a picture message that was sent to Paul. She is still bound at her wrists, but her gag has been lowered. She sits on her knees. Standing behind her are three men, all with their faces shielded by Arab headdresses. They each hold AK-47 assault weapons. Paul watches in horror as the terrified woman speaks, through her tears, into the camera. 
WOMAN My name is Pamela Gorham. I'm a food service worker at F.O.B. Anaconda, employed by Crestin, Roland and Thomas. My captors' requests for ransom have gone unanswered, and -- The Woman, Pamela, looks off-screen to her right. Someone is fast approaching her. She cowers, protectively holding her bound hands in front of her face as she screams. 
WOMAN (CONT'D) (to the person) No...wait!! Please -- no!! Another Iraqi man steps into the camera's line of site, a handgun already brandished. Without as much as a moment's hesitation, he fires two rounds directly into Pamela's head, killing her. 
The video message ends immediately thereafter. Paul is in complete shock. He screams aloud, slamming his closed fist against the bottom of the coffin. 
PAUL No! No, no, no!!! Still in the throes of emotional torment, Paul vomits on himself. He doubles over, only to vomit once again. His body, taxed almost to the point of complete physical breakdown, gradually slows and levels itself. With his vomit- smeared face pressed cheek-down onto the bottom of the coffin, Paul stares into nothingness. 
After a beat, his eye catches a glimmer of light -- the blade of the knife, reflecting off the beam of the flashlight. Paul reaches for the knife. Lying on his back, still suffering enormous mental strain, he places the cutting edge of the blade against his neck. His jugular vein. His hand shakes, his lips tremble. The hand that holds the blade tightens its grip on the handle. It, too, shakes. Paul closes his eyes. A small amount of blood begins to drip from the side of his neck, where the blade of the knife rests, ready to open his vein. 
After a great deal of consideration, Paul throws the knife to the foot of the coffin. He can't do it. The flashlight falls from Paul's chest. It turns off upon landing on the floor of the coffin. Paul sits in darkness. His breaths echo off the coffin walls. After a beat, he turns on the flashlight. It turns off after less than two seconds. This time, however, he does not shake it, nor does he hit it. A moment later, we hear a click, followed by the sight of a red light beam emitting from the flashlight. It holds steady. 
Paul shines it onto the names and phone numbers written on the top of the coffin. He stops at "MARK WHITE." After a beat, he lowers the flashlight to his side. He picks up the phone and dials Brenner. After one ring, Brenner answers. He's clearly not pleased. Paul, however, is surprisingly calm. Detached. Almost disturbingly so. 
DAN Why the hell did you make that video? 
PAUL It's all a bunch of lies. 
DAN What is? What are you talking about? 
PAUL All of it. 
DAN All of what? 
PAUL Nobody gives a shit about any of us. We're nothing to you people. 
DAN We're going to find you. 
PAUL By looking the other way? 
DAN You can't start breaking on me now, Paul. You have to stay strong. 
PAUL You let her die. 
(BEAT) What the hell happened out there, Paul? 
Paul doesn't answer at first. 
DAN (CONT'D) Paul. After a beat: 
PAUL We had just left Anaconda, everything seemed okay. We knew that a bunch of our CB radios had been stolen and that the Iraqis were listening in, so we made sure to switch from our usual channels. Pam was riding with Jeff Breer, the convoy commander. She wanted to ride with me like she usually did when she hitched a ride from base, but it seemed safer for her to be with the C.C. As we headed down the road, all these kids came running into the street. Dozens of them. It almost seemed like they were expecting us, except we got there faster than they thought we would. So they run on up in front of me, and I slam on my brakes. The rest of the drivers were already further up ahead, so they kept going. Next thing I know, one of the lead trucks got hit by an IED. I hear Tommy Wilkes on the radio saying, Sandman's hit, Sandman's hit. He's...he's everywhere. 
(MORE) 
PAUL (CONT'D) That's when the Iraqis came out of their mud huts from the side of the road and started shooting everybody. I couldn't believe what was happening. It seemed like slow- motion, like I was watching it on TV. People -- my friends -- were getting killed, and all I could do is watch. I didn't even notice that the kids were throwing bricks and rocks at me until one split my windshield. Sort of snapped me out of my trance. But then, I guess I got hit in the head with a rock, `cause I blacked out. 
DAN Do you happen to remem...mo... nea... The cell phone service begins to cut out. Suddenly, the coffin begins to vibrate slightly, dropping sand granules through the crack and onto the wood bottom, followed by the faint sound of an explosion. Within seconds, the explosions grow louder and more proximate. The vibration becomes so intense that it violently shakes Paul around the coffin. The sound of jet plane engines are heard coming from above, flying by as the massive explosions continue. Sand seeps in through the crack between the top and sides of the coffin as it shakes. Paul does his best to brace himself, but the bombardment is far too powerful. 
A large crack forms in the wooden cover to the coffin, spanning almost its entire length. Sand immediately pours through the concave shaped crack, seeping in onto Paul like an hourglass. Fearing that the top of the coffin may collapse under the immense pressure from the sand above, Paul positions himself underneath it and presses with all his might. He grunts and screams loudly, using what little strength he has left to keep the top from caving. The shaking soon stops, though the steady flow of sand continues. 
In efforts to prevent the sand from filling the coffin any faster, Paul removes the button-down shirt from the hole and stuffs into the area where it enters with the greatest volume. He removes the balled-up cloth from the other hole and does the same with it. Both offer very little help. The flashlight falls to the floor. The red light beam turns off. Darkness. The sound of sand steadily pouring down. 
PAUL 
(EXHAUSTED) Oh no...no... Paul clicks the flashlight to a different setting. White light shines, but then goes out. He shakes the flashlight and it stays on, shining its normal white beam. 
He assesses his situation, noticing that the coffin is already filled with a small layer of sand; a situation that is only going to get worse with time. 
PAUL This can't be happening. We see that Dan Brenner is no longer on the phone, and that the display menu shows an icon of a phone with a line through it -- No Service Available. Once he feels it is secure enough, Paul slowly moves his body away from the crack. Although slightly caved, it does not show any more signs of possible collapse. Sweat drenches his face. His eyes affixed, in utter disbelief, on the sand as it spills into the coffin, filling in around him inch-by-inch. 
He grabs the cell phone, only to see that he does not have a signal. 
PAUL (CONT'D) No. Come on. Please work. He shakes the cell phone and moves it all around the coffin, hoping that it may somehow help. His efforts are futile. The flashlight goes dead. He hits it, shakes it. It turns back on. The brightness is diminished. Still the sand continues to fall, drowning him deeper and deeper in a pool of granules. Then, very surprisingly, the cell phone rings. Paul answers right away. 
PAUL 
(FRANTICALLY) Hello? Hello? Who's there? Alan Davenport answers calmly from the other end. 
ALAN DAVENPORT Is this Paul Conroy? 
PAUL Yes. Yes, this is Paul. Who are you? 
ALAN DAVENPORT Paul, my name's Alan Davenport, I'm the personnel director here at Crestin, Roland and Thomas. 
PAUL I left you a message. 
ALAN DAVENPORT You did. I also heard from Rebecca Browning over at the State Department. Are you able to speak on the status of your situation? 
ALAN DAVENPORT Thank you. Now, Mister Conroy, when were you hired by CRT? 
PAUL About nine months ago. Around January of 2005. Why are you wasting time with this? 
ALAN DAVENPORT I have your official date of hire as January 4th, 2005. Is that correct? 
PAUL Who cares? This is fucking crazy -- 
ALAN DAVENPORT January 4th, 2005. Is that correct? 
PAUL Yes! 
ALAN DAVENPORT And during your initial training, before being sent to Iraq, were you made aware of the dangers inherent to the position for which you were hired. 
PAUL You mean when I came down there to Dallas and you guys said that all of the trucks would be armored and have bulletproof glass? The flashlight dims. Paul angrily shakes it, returning it to full strength. 
PAUL (CONT'D) You mean when you told us that things were safer than ever over here? Is that when I was made aware? 
ALAN DAVENPORT I need you to answer yes or no, please. 
PAUL 
(BEAT) Yes. The flashlight begins to slowly dim. 
ALAN DAVENPORT During that time, did you also receive and sign an employment contract with CRT, which thoroughly explained company policy as it pertained to your specific terms of employment? 
PAUL Yeah, I signed a bunch of things. 
ALAN DAVENPORT Yes or no. 
PAUL Yes. I signed the contract. Yes! 
ALAN DAVENPORT It's our understanding that you were taken hostage in Iraq two hours ago, is that also correct? 
PAUL Yes. That's completely correct. What is the point of all this? 
Alan breaks from the H.R. handbook script, though his tone remains just as matter-of-fact. The flashlight continues its steady, slow dim. 
ALAN DAVENPORT Our legal department requires that we obtain a sworn affidavit from employees, confirming that they understand the reasons for their forced separation from the company. As of this morning, your employment with CRT was officially terminated. 
PAUL Wait, wait, wait -- The flashlight dims even more. 
ALAN DAVENPORT It was brought to our attention that you were engaging in relations with a fellow CRT employee -- Pamela Gorham. 
JABIR You cut off thumb finger, send video. 
PAUL I'm not doing that. 
JABIR Yes! Paul puts the batteries back inside the flashlight. Begins screwing on the cap. 
PAUL No. 
JABIR No? 
PAUL That's right, no. You let me out of here, and I'll cut off my whole God damn hand if you want. Jabir again says something to someone in the room with him, returning to Paul after a brief moment. Paul finishes closing the top of the flashlight. 
JABIR You have wife? Click. The flashlight turns on! 
Paul considers Jabir's question to be a potential sign of compassion. 
PAUL Yes, I do. And a son. A young son. I want to go home...to see them. Please, sir. 
JABIR Sir? 
PAUL Yes. Sir. I say that out of respect...to you. 
JABIR 243 East Walnut Street. Hastings, Michigan. U.S.A. 
PAUL 
(CONCERNED) That's my...why did you say that? 
JABIR You show blood...or they show blood. 
PAUL That's...you're lying. You're nobody...all of you. You can't get to them. 
JABIR No? 
PAUL No. You're peasants, criminals, that's all. You don't even know where Michigan is. 
JABIR Detroit. Ann Arbor. Even this basic knowledge is enough to make Jabir's threats that much more real. 
PAUL You looked at a map. That's all you did. 
JABIR You show blood, or they show blood. Send video by five minutes. Jabir ends the call. Realizing that Jabir is gone, Paul quickly dials his wife's cell phone. After several rings, her voice mail picks up. 
LINDA (V.O.) Hi, this is Linda. Please leave a message. Thanks and have a great day. 
PAUL I'm...here. 
DAN We're coming for you now. You hear me? We know where you are. 
This news serves as somewhat of an adrenaline rush for Paul, who musters up even the modicum of strength he seemingly did not have left in him. 
PAUL You're coming? 
DAN We are, Paul. We're almost there now. 
PAUL How do you know? 
DAN Coalition forces picked up a Shiite insurgent just outside of Baghdad. 
(MORE) 
DAN (CONT'D) Said he knew where an American was buried alive. He agreed to show us where if we let him go. 
PAUL You're coming for me? 
DAN We're practically there already. An impossible smile fights its way to Paul's lips. His momentary joy is just that, however, for the sand has almost completely filled the coffin by this point. 
PAUL You have to hurry. 
DAN We are. 
PAUL No...you have to hurry. The sand...it's filling up fast. 
DAN Just hang in there for three more minutes. This will all be over soon, I promise. Paul is very hopeful that Dan is correct in his assumption. 
PAUL Okay. I believe you. Thank you. Thank you. A beep is heard. Paul has another call coming in. He's visibly elated upon seeing who it is. 
DAN Three minutes. Try to -- 
PAUL I have to go! 
DAN Paul, no -- 
PAUL Call me right back. 
DAN Paul! 
PAUL Call me right back. Paul switches to the other call, despite the fact that he has a mere eight inches left before the entire coffin is filled with sand from top-to-bottom. He holds the flashlight just above the top of the sand pile, allowing it to illuminate what little unoccupied area remains. 
