KAYLEIGH Mommy lives far away but she comes and visits. 
LENNY (to Tommy) If I'm retarded, why didn't my mommy move away from me? 
Tommy gets upset. He swipes his hand down Lenny's picture and his macaroni "mother" crumbles to the floor. Lenny begins to cry. 
EVAN Hey, what'd you do that for? 
TOMMY Fat little baby, crying for mommy. 
Evan takes the ruined picture and leans down next to Lenny. 
EVAN Come on, Lenny. It's not that bad. You can still see your mom a little. 
Lenny, unable to stop crying, begins hyperventilating out of control. His desperate gasps for breath are frightening. 
Evan, scared, looks around for Mrs. Boswell, but cannot find her. He reaches up to his own picture and quickly tears his own macaroni "mother" apart and places it over Lenny's picture. It's a nuclear family again. Lenny slowly is able to catch his breath. 
LENNY (grateful) Can... can... Can I have this? 
EVAN Sure. I was gonna make a new one, anyway. 
Kayleigh helps Lenny glue a new "mother" in place and she smiles gratefully at Evan. 
As Evan smiles back at Kayleigh, Mrs. Boswell calmly enters the room in time to see Evan tacking up his butchered family portrait. She shivers. 
EXT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY - 1989 
Gothic. Imposing. Andrea runs up the stairs. 
INT. SUNNYVALE - DR. REDFIELD'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 
DR. HARLON REDFIELD, 40, a handsome and extremely genial man, scrutinizes a disturbing drawing. 
DR. REDFIELD And you say he doesn't remember any of it? 
ANDREA (anxious) Not according to his teacher. It just got me thinking about Jason and what if Evan's inherited his father's condition? 
DR. REDFIELD Hold it, hold it, Andrea. Let's not jump to conclusions. I'll run some preliminary tests, see what we can rule out. 
Andrea nods and forces a thankful smile. 
DR. REDFIELD Tell you what, bring Evan here tonight and we'll run a CAT-scan series. 
EXT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - NIGHT 
The looming building looks even more frightening at night. Andrea and Evan head up the stairs. 
EVAN I don't like this place, Mom. It's creepy. Please can we go? I promise I won't make any more bad pictures! 
ANDREA (lighthearted) You'll be fine. Dr. Redfield just wants to give you some tests. You'll like him. 
INT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - NIGHT 
Andrea leads Evan into Dr. Redfield's office. Dr. Redfield warmly greets Evan at the door. 
DR. REDFIELD Hello, Evan. It's very nice to meet you. (to Andrea) He's as handsome as his father. 
EVAN (stunned) You know my father? 
Before Dr. Redfield can answer, Andrea cuts him off. 
ANDREA That's why I wanted you to come here, Evan. Dr. Redfield already has a background in memory loss. 
EVAN My father has a bad memory, too? 
DR. REDFIELD (off Andrea's look) Uh, tell you what, Evan. If it's okay with your mother, I'd like to run some tests. Nothing scary. 
Evan raises an eyebrow at the doctor. 
DR. REDFIELD Okay, it might be a little scary... 
INT. LABORATORY - MOMENTS LATER 
Evan looks terrified as he lies on a medical platform as a series of CAT-scan images are taken. In another part of the room, a distressed Andrea speaks quietly with Dr. Redfield. 
ANDREA Just tell me that Evan doesn't have Jason's illness... 
DR. REDFIELD Look, Andrea, I'm sure he'll test negative for brain disorders. But there's something else you can try to monitor his memory. 
ANDREA Anything. 
DR. REDFIELD A journal. Just have him write down everything he does. 
ANDREA Why? What for? 
DR. REDFIELD It could be extremely useful to jog his memory. See if he remembers anything new the next day. And I'll have the test results back in a few days. 
EVAN Where am I? What happened? Where did we all go? 
MR. MILLER Calm down, kid. Stand still. 
Evan backs up and awkwardly scurries around the basement, grabbing his clothes. 
Panicking. 
EVAN I was just somewhere else -- how did I get here? 
MR. MILLER Quit acting like some retard or I'll call your mother and tell her what a naughty little shit you've been. 
EVAN Kayleigh? What happened? 
Kayleigh's eyes are unable to leave the floor. She begins adjusting her disheveled clothing. Evan trembles. 
EVAN What's wrong with me? 
Tommy silently watches from the top of the basement stairs, absently wringing the head off one of his sister's dolls. 
INT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY 
Dr. Redfield places Evan's CAT-scan slides on the light box. Andrea squints, unable to interpret them. 
DR. REDFIELD Well, the good news is that the results are negative. I've found no evidence in the way of lesions, hemorrhaging, tumors... 
ANDREA And the bad news? 
DR. REDFIELD Unfortunately, we've got nothing to work with. It's harder playing detective now. 
ANDREA But you must have something to go on? 
DR. REDFIELD If I had to guess, I'd say the blackouts are stress related. 
ANDREA But he's seven. What kind of stress can he have? 
DR. REDFIELD Plenty. Who knows? Maybe he's got severe coping problems about not having a father. Did you say the last blackout occurred when he was with his friend's dad. 
ANDREA Come on, I doubt the answer's that simple. 
DR. REDFIELD You'd be surprised how often they are. 
ANDREA Well, he has been pushing me to meet his father, but I've been putting it off. 
DR. REDFIELD It's worth a shot. I can arrange a controlled meeting. A careful dose of sedatives for Jason, some security, you and I monitoring. Evan comes in for a quick visit and with any luck, no more missing father complex. 
ANDREA How soon?... 
INT. ANDREA'S CAR - COUNTRY ROAD - DAY 
Evan, dressed in his Sunday best, writes copiously in a journal marked "AGE 7." 
EVAN'S DIARY 
"April 15. Today I get to mete my father. His name is Jason and he is crazy. I hope he lets me call him dad." 
INT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY 
Andrea tightly grips Evan's hand as the pair follow Dr. Redfield down a corridor. Evan's enthusiasm is dampened by the sounds of distant screams and bloodcurdling laughter. 
EVAN Dad lives here? 
DR. REDFIELD Not in this wing, actually. No. 
ANDREA Now your father may seem sleepy to you, but that's just because of his medicine, okay? 
EVAN Okay. 
They walk to the end of the corridor and come to a "Visitor's Chamber". 
Dr.Redfield leads Evan inside. Andrea begins to follow, but the doctor gestures that she stay outside. 
INT. SUNNYVALE - VISITOR'S CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS 
Evan takes a seat at a long rectangular table. His eyes are fixated on the door on the other side of the room. Finally, a dark figure can be seen through the opaque glass. 
JASON, thirty and haggard looking, enters the room. His eyes want to sparkle at seeing his son for the first time. But tranquilizers have dulled the effect. 
Evan's eyes fixate on the leg-restraints and handcuffs that hinder Jason's movement. Finally Jason sits. 
He smiles warmly and speaks in over-enunciated tones. 
JASON It's okay. I won't bite. You've seen pictures of me, right? 
EVAN Uh-huh. Mom says I have your eyes and your -- 
SMASH CUT TO: 
TOMMY What did I say about mentioning that bitch? 
KAYLEIGH (uncomfortable) Where the hell are you taking us anyway? Just blow something up already. 
TOMMY Just blow something up? Are you nuts? There's an art to mass destruction. Would you just paint the Mona Lisa? No. Besides, we're here already. 
Now at the edge of the woods, Tommy spots: 
EXT. MRS. HALPERN'S HOME - CONTINUOUS 
A MAILBOX sits at the end of the driveway. It's exquisite. An exact replica of a Colonial home it serves. 
Across the street, Tommy hands the blockbuster to Lenny. 
TOMMY Here you go, buddy. 
LENNY (recoiling) What? No frigging way, man. I'm not touching that thing. 
TOMMY The hell you aren't. Anyone of us does it, you'll puss out and narc for sure. 
LENNY Ain't gonna work this time, buddy. Look how small that fuse is! I'll get killed. 
EVAN Not necessarily. 
All eyes turn to Evan as he takes his lit cigarette, breaks off the filter and jams the fuse into the unlit end. 
EVAN That should buy you ten minutes at least. 
LENNY Gee, thanks friend. 
EXT. MRS. HALPERN'S HOME - CONTINUOUS 
Lenny paces back and forth next to the three-story mailbox, desperately trying to appear nonchalant. He pretends to notice his shoe's untied and bends down to tie it. From the woods, the other kids watch anxiously. 
TOMMY Oh, for Christ's sake, just do it, Lenny. 
Finally, Lenny throws the bomb in the mailbox. Then sprints like hell to the woods. Kayleigh shakes Lenny's inhaler and hands it to him when he gets back. 
LENNY (taking puff) Thanks. 
Evan pats Lenny on the back. 
EVAN You got balls, man. 
The four watch the mailbox in intense anticipation. Evan smiles with the cigarette pressed tightly between his lips and places his hands over Kayleigh's ears. She smiles back at him and presses his hands against her head. Tommy catches this and seems disturbed, and quickly turns back to -- 
The mailbox. Tick-tock... tick-tock... It's like a staring contest... 
SMASH CUT TO: 
EXT. HALPERNS' FOREST - DAY 
Evan, running full speed, comes to in an unfamiliar place. He instantly loses his footing and falls to the ground. Lenny, falling on top of him. 
TOMMY Hurry! Let's go! Get him up, Evan! Come on! 
EVAN (frantic) What happened?? Where are we?! 
Evan gets up and starts running, then realizes he's not being followed. Kayleigh and Tommy are helping Lenny up and carrying him. Evan realizes that Lenny's completely dazed. Evan doubles back, grabs Lenny's arm and he and Tommy drag Lenny through the woods as fast as they can. 
KAYLEIGH (crying) Oh God... what did we do? 
EVAN Shit, Lenny. What's happened to you! We've gotta get help! 
SMASH CUT TO: 
EXT. LENNY'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY 
Andrea's car screeches to the curb of Lenny's house. Lenny's mother, Mrs. Kagan, frantically loads Lenny into an ambulance. 
As Andrea rushes up to the ambulance, Mrs. Kagan gives her an icy glare and slams the ambulance door in Andrea's face. Andrea turns to Evan, now trembling on the front stoop. 
ANDREA What is it? What happened? 
TOMMY (staring menacingly at the others) We were just building a fort in the woods when Lenny freaked out. One minute he was fine, then he just froze up. Right guys? 
ANDREA What happened, Evan? The truth. 
EVAN I don't know... I don't remember. 
ANDREA Something must've happened! What set him off? 
EVAN I... I blacked out. 
ANDREA (building frustration) Don't try to use your blackouts to get out of this one! 
Evan looks helpless. 
On "mailbox", Tommy suddenly grabs Evan's jacket and SHOVES him against a parked car. Tommy looks around to make sure nobody heard anything. 
TOMMY Don't ever bring that shit up again. Not ever. Not to me, not to Kayleigh, or even Lenny. The stupid fuck if he ever learns to talk again. Understand? 
Evan nods, scared. Tommy gives a final shove. 
TOMMY Ever. (re: Kayleigh) She don't want to talk about it, anyway. Do you Kayleigh? 
Tommy's right. Kayleigh clearly doesn't. 
INT. MULTIPLEX THEATER LOBBY - DUSK 
Kayleigh shuffles behind Evan and Tommy as they head toward the theatre. Evan drops back. 
EVAN Are you okay? 
Kayleigh says nothing as Tommy sees the theatre playing SEVEN and whispers. 
TOMMY There it is. Let's go. 
INT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Andrea does the dishes as the TV plays a NEWSCAST in the b.g. 
ANCHOR (on TV) ...was the grizzly aftermath of what police officials of upstate New York are calling a horrible act of vandalism gone awry. 
Andrea turns to the TV, blocking our view. We can only hear the report as she watches intensely. 
ANCHOR The powerful explosion is believed to have been caused by a small quantity of dynamite. 
Andrea's face looks haunted by the on-screen images. She shakes her head in terror and grabs the remote. 
ANCHOR Police thus far have no leads as to the suspects... 
She clicks off the TV, trembling. 
INT. MULTIPLEX THEATER - NIGHT 
The movie's in progress. Evan and Kayleigh sit behind Tommy. 
TOMMY Holy shit! Look at that fat fuck! You'd have to wipe his ass with a forklift! 
Some crowd members TURN around and give Tommy a SHUSH. Tommy whips M&Ms at them. 
TOMMY Shut up, faggot. No one's talking to you! 
Kayleigh, repulsed, suddenly darts from the aisle and runs out. Evan follows. 
INT. LOBBY - CONTINUOUS 
Evan follows her to a small alcove. 
EVAN I'm sorry Kayleigh. This was a bad idea. 
KAYLEIGH You really don't remember anything that happened? 
Evan shakes his head "no". She looks devastated. 
KAYLEIGH You're so lucky. 
She begins to cry. Evan makes sure no one's staring. 
EVAN It's going to be okay. Lenny'll be fine. You'll see. 
He reaches to comfort her. But she winces. 
KAYLEIGH Ouch. 
EVAN I'm sorry. 
She pulls her sleeve up, revealing a large bruise. 
KAYLEIGH It's not your fault. Mrs. Kagan called dad and blamed us for what happened to Lenny. 
EVAN Damn. Your dad did this? 
Kayleigh pulls back her shirt collar to show an even larger, darker bruise. 
KAYLEIGH (looking down) I deserve a lot worse. 
EVAN What are you talking about? What you deserve is a better brother and father. All they do is make you feel like shit. 
She looks into his eyes. 
EVAN You really have no clue how beautiful you are, do you? 
She searches his eyes for sincerity. And finds it. They lean into each other for a TENDER KISS. After a moment, a ROAR from nearby. 
MRS. KAGAN (acidic) Lenny's been through a hell of an ordeal no thanks to you. 
Evan and Kayleigh look guilty as the garage door opens up and Mrs. Kagan continues into the garage. 
INT. LENNY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Alone, Lenny concentrates on a MODEL AIRPLANE. There is a sudden KNOCK at the window. Lenny's head jerks around to see Evan and Kayleigh smiling through the window. 
EXT. LENNY'S WINDOW - CONTINUOUS 
Evan and Kayleigh stand on the ivy-covered trellis. 
EVAN (quietly) Welcome home. Thought you might like some fresh air for a change. 
KAYLEIGH Hi, Lenny. 
Lenny twitches ever-so-slightly. 
LENNY Is Tommy with you guys? 
Evan shakes his head "no". 
EVAN It's cool. 
Lenny looks back at the model airplane. Needs to think. 
EXT. JUNKYARD WOODS - DAY 
Evan, Lenny and Kayleigh pass a junk pile in the woods. 
KAYLEIGH (to Lenny) So what did you do in there? 
LENNY It was awful. You can't sleep 'cause everyone's screaming all night long. I never want to go back. 
As Evan and Kayleigh absorb this in silence, they see a column of smoke billowing in the horizon. 
KAYLEIGH Do you see that? 
Evan and Kayleigh run toward the smoke. Lenny nervously follows behind. 
They exit the woods to find: 
EXT. JUNKYARD - CONTINUOUS 
Tommy has stuffed a dog into a gunny sack which he douses with lighter fluid. 
Next to a campfire. 
EVAN Crockett!! 
Evan and Kayleigh rush toward the trapped, helpless dog. Tommy is ready for them. He drops the lighter fluid, picks up a wooden plank and SWINGS! Evan ducks back at the last minute and Tommy accidentally connects with Kayleigh's head. 
Knocking her unconscious. 
TOMMY Look what you made me do! 
EVAN What's wrong with you?! 
Tommy, enraged, fakes a high swing, then goes for Evan's knee cap. BASH! Evan doubles over in pain and falls to the ground, clutching his knee. Tommy moves to the fire, Crockett squirming inside the bag and picks up the lighter fluid. 
Evan painfully looks up from the ground and his eyes dart from the sight of Kayleigh, unconscious, to Crockett, trapped in the tied gunny sack. 
EVAN Kayleigh! Wake up! 
No response. 
TOMMY Why don't you fucking kiss her, Prince Charming! 
Tommy squeezes the bottle hard, creating a flaming fuse from the campfire to the fluid soaked dog. 
As the flames near Crockett, Evan, seething with rage, stands up with clenched fists and CHARGES Tommy at FULL SPEED -- 
SMASH CUT TO: 
EXT. JUNKYARD - DAY 
Evan comes to in an unfamiliar place. Still in running mode. His body contorts spastically like a fish on land, since he is now lying face down on the ground. 
Evan regains himself and sits up painfully. His face is badly bruised and he clutches his battered ribs. 
EVAN How long was I out? 
He gets no answer from Lenny, who stands in the exact same spot. Tommy is nowhere in sight and the sound is of Kayleigh weeping. Evan spins to face her. 
EVAN Kayleigh?! Are you okay? Where's Crockett? 
Kayleigh, her knees drawn tightly to her chest, is unable to answer through her tears. Evan struggles to rise but he becomes dizzy and falls back to the ground. 
THUMPER Here, bro. Found your T-shirt. 
Evan nods thanks, picks up his journal. Reads something and smiles. 
EVAN Get dressed, Thumper, you're taking me out for my birthday. 
THUMPER I thought you were a December baby. 
EVAN This is bigger. Seven years to the day. No blackouts. 
Thumper pulls out a bong. 
THUMPER Let's do this. 
EXT. DIRTY HANK'S BAR - DAY 
INT. DIRTY HANK'S BAR - CONTINUOUS 
A popular watering hole. A dark rustic interior, blasting alternative rock. 
Plenty of underage students carry pitchers of beer to their tables. 
Evan and Thumper play pool against two young women. HEIDI, beautiful, wears ripped jeans, no make up. She sinks the eleven ball off the rail. KRISTEN coolly smokes a cigarette, confident that she and Heidi will hold the table. 
KRISTEN So... which one of you has a pet worm? 
Thumper proudly steps forward. 
THUMPER Worms, plural. 
KRISTEN That's so gross. 
Thumper steps back, points to Evan. 
THUMPER Talk to him about it, he's got the fetish. 
Heidi sinks another ball and looks up at Evan strangely. 
EVAN Actually, they're for a psych project. A study on memory. 
Heidi misses her shot and passes the cue to Evan. 
HEIDI (stifling a yawn) Shit, better explain before all the excitement gives me a heart attack. 
Evan speaks as he knocks the one-ball in the corner pocket. As he talks, at a table behind them, some obnoxious Greeks, including HUNTER, SPENCER, and GWEN make fun of Thumper. 
EVAN It's an experiment with flatworms and a maze. You take a flatworm and run it through the maze until he's memorized it. Then you put a new flatworm in the maze. He's clueless. Banging into walls, getting lost, whatever. 
THUMPER (thoughtfully) Like Ozzy. 
Gwen giggles as Spencer throws popcorn at Thumper's head. 
SPENCER Ten bucks says he eats it off the floor. 
Thumper seems oblivious to their taunts as Evan knocks the three-ball in the side. 
EVAN You chop up the smart flatworm and feed it to the dumb one and presto, the dumb one suddenly knows the maze inside and out. 
Evan walks past Heidi, putting his hand on her shoulder to squeeze by. The hand lingers longer than necessary and Heidi doesn't mind. He sinks another ball. 
EVAN Just by absorbing the first worm into its cellular structure, it gets all of the worm's memories. 
THUMPER (thoughtfully) That's probably why Hannibal Lecter's so smart. 
A handful of popcorn hits Thumper's face. They all try to ignore Hunter and Spencer's jeers. 
HEIDI So what's the point? 
EVAN (setting up the eight) Maybe if I can figure out how the memories of a simple worm function, it'll help me understand the complexities of the human brain. 
Another barrage of popcorn hits Thumper's jacket. Although his hand clenches on the cue. He meekly shuffles away to the opposite side of the pool table from the cackling Greeks. 
HEIDI (intrigued) So are you planning on becoming a doctor or something? 
Thumper casually takes the pool cue from Evan. 
EVAN No, I just don't want to lose my mind. 
As Heidi digests this, Thumper carefully lines up his shot... The eight ball. 
CRASH!!! The cue ball intentionally jumps the table, rocketing into the pitcher of beer on the Greek's table. They're all soaked with beer and debris. 
Just as they begin to rise, Thumper smashes the cue stick on the table, WHISTLING innocently (while now brandishing a spear). They sit the fuck down. 
Kristin, impressed, casually wraps her arm around Thumper's waist. He smiles coolly, it's nothing. 
EVAN (to Heidi) I think that's your game. 
WHOOSH OF FLAMES 
And Evan passes out. 
FLASH! 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT - 2002 
Evan comes to with Heidi slapping him awake. 
EVAN Oh my God! No! No! 
Heidi rolls her eyes. 
HEIDI Wake up, idiot. It was just a dream. 
She stands and angrily puts on her jacket. 
EVAN (freaked out) It didn't feel like a dream. 
HEIDI Maybe because they never do. (sarcastic) So Don Juan, you pass out on all your dates? 
Evan doesn't even hear her. After getting his bearings, he grabs his jacket and exits, leaving her dumbfounded. 
INT. EVAN'S CAR - SUNRISE 
Evan drives... 
EXT. LENNY'S HOUSE - DAY 
Evan, exhausted, finally pulls into Lenny's driveway. Very little has changed in the past seven years. 
INT. LENNY'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
ANGLE ON LENNY 
Now 20, making a model airplane. He's still overweight and looks like his mother dresses him. 
PULL BACK TO REVEAL 
The room is filled with model airplanes. Hundreds of them. 
A KNOCK on Lenny's bedroom door. Mrs. Kagan, grayer, fatter, opens the door and escorts Evan inside. She glares at Evan while pretending to be cheerful. 
MRS. KAGAN I've got a surprise for you, Lenny. You'll never guess who's here. 
Lenny looks up to see Evan, his jaw drops. 
ANGLE ON EVAN 
Looking around, shocked to see: 
PAN ALL THE WAY AROUND THE ROOM. 
Nothing has changed in the past seven years. 
The same kids' toys, posters and comic books. 
AS WE PAN ALL THE WAY AROUND TO LENNY 
We see he's working on the model again, in his own world. The window of opportunity for conversation has closed. 
EVAN Hey, uh, it's me. Evan. 
Silence. Lenny frowns. 
EVAN What's that you're working on? A model? 
Nothing. 
EVAN Well, you look busy, so maybe I should make this quick. I'd totally understand if you didn't want to get into this right now, but that day at the junkyard, could you help me remember what happened? Any details? 
No response. Evan picks up a model airplane from the desk. 
LENNY I couldn't cut the rope. 
EVAN (containing excitement) Yeah, good, what else do you remember? 
LENNY Drop it or I'll slit your mother's throat in her sleep. 
Evan, startled, drops the model on the desk. An epiphany. 
EVAN Jesus Christ. It really happened. 
Lenny stares out the window. 
EVAN Couldn't you have moved in with your mom? 
KAYLEIGH (shaking her head) She had a new family. Not enough space for me. Said I should have moved in with her when we were kids. But... whatever. 
They walk in silence for a moment. 
EVAN Actually, Kayleigh, the reason I came back to town was to talk to you. 
KAYLEIGH (brightening) Me? Are you kidding? Why? 
EVAN Remember when I was a kid I had all these blackouts? 
KAYLEIGH Of course. 
EVAN Well, lately some of the memories have begun to come back and I'd kinda like to talk to you about one of them in particular. It'd be a big help. 
KAYLEIGH Well, sure. I'll try to remember. Shoot. 
EVAN When we were kids. Your dad was making a movie. Robin Hood or something? 
KAYLEIGH (cold) What do you want to know, Evan? 
EVAN It's just... did he... what happened in the basement? 
KAYLEIGH It was a long time ago. 
EVAN I know, but... 
KAYLEIGH (cold) Is that why you came all the way back? To ask a lot of stupid questions about Robin Hood? 
EVAN No, but I think something really bad might've happened to us. 
Kayleigh stops walking and crushes her cigarette. 
KAYLEIGH Is there a point to any of this? 
Evan's features shift from inquisitory to tenderness. He steps closer to Kayleigh and softly strokes her face. She flinches at first, but remains in the same spot. 
EVAN Whatever happened, it wasn't our fault. You know we couldn't have stopped it. 
Kayleigh begins to tremble. Tears flow. 
EVAN Look, Kayleigh. This may sound like bullshit coming from a guy who hasn't spoken to you in seven years... 
She moves her face away from his hand. 
EVAN But you were seven years old and there's nothing you could've done to deserve... 
Her face collapses and she turns away. 
KAYLEIGH (defeated) Just shut up, Evan. You're wasting your breath. 
EVAN You can't hate yourself just because your dad's a twisted freak. 
KAYLEIGH Who are you trying to convince, Evan?! You come all the way out here to stir up my shit just because you had a bad memory!? You want me to cry on your shoulder and tell you that everything's all better now? Well fuck you, Evan! Nothing's gonna be all better! Okay?! Nothing ever gets better! 
Kayleigh runs, stops and turns back to Evan. 
KAYLEIGH If I was so wonderful, Evan, why didn't you ever call me? Why'd you leave me here to rot?! 
She turns and runs away. Evan looks sick with guilt. 
EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS - QUAD - DAY - 2002 
A few GREEKS play frisbee and talk trash. Evan, tired and depressed, sits on the lawn nearby, fingering the new burn scar on his belly. Contemplating... 
INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT 
Evan enters his dorm. He ignores Thumper, who sits on Evan's bed sucking furiously from a gurgling bong. He chokes out a message. 
THUMPER Some dude left a message for you. 
Evan puts a towel under the door. 
EVAN You can smell it all the way in the bathroom. 
Evan hits "play" on the answering machine. 
ANSWERING MACHINE (male voice) Hi, Evan, this is Professor Carter. Just wondered why you didn't hand in your essay this afternoon. I was a bit concerned. Call me to schedule a make-up. 
BEEP. Thumper offers Evan a magnified frown of disapproval. 
ANSWERING MACHINE (male voice) What did you say to my sister motherfucker?! Last night she cried on the phone for over an hour to me. (enraged breathing) She said you came and saw her last night. 
Thumper coughs accidentally, tips the bong over on Evan's bed. Reacting quickly, he grabs a towel from under the door and wipes off Evan's comforter. 
ANSWERING MACHINE (Tommy; cont'd) She... she fucking killed herself tonight. She's dead. (beat) And so are you. 
MR. MILLER (hoarse whisper) Who -- who are you? 
Evan impatiently waves the question. 
EVAN Let's just say you're being closely watched, George. Your other option is to get your porn off the rack and treat Kayleigh like... oh, let's say like how a loving father treats his daughter. Sound okay to you, Papa? 
MR. MILLER (choking) ...yes. 
EVAN Listen close then, fuckbag. You screw up again and I swear I'll flat out castrate you. 
The impact of the last sentence isn't lost on Mr. Miller. 
EVAN One last thing. 
Evan leans over to whisper in Kayleigh's ear. Kayleigh stares at the floor, then looks up at her father and shivers. 
Kayleigh looks into Evan's eyes for support. Evan nods go on. His confidence brings a boldness to her lips. 
KAYLEIGH Don't you ever touch me again. 
MR. MILLER I -- I won't. 
Kayleigh summons her own new courage. 
KAYLEIGH I'm cold. And I'm putting on my clothes. 
As he leaves to pick up her clothes, Evan grins. 
EVAN What you need to do is discipline your son Tommy, because the kid's one sadistic pup. 
Hiding at the top of the basement stairs, Tommy recoils in horror and picks up one of his sister's dolls and begins twisting the head back and forth... 
FLASH! 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. SORORITY BEDROOM - MORNING - 2002 
A broad smile lines Evan's face as he slowly wakes up from his slumber. He suddenly grabs his head as if suffering from a pounding migraine. 
MONTAGE OF SWIRLING MEMORIES 
Quick cuts and flashes of Evan and Kayleigh growing older -- she seems more carefree now, full of life and less self- conscious. 
EXT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - DAY - 1989 
Evan pulls Kayleigh around in a little red wagon. 
INT. FAMILY RESTAURANT - DAY - 1989 
Evan and Kayleigh play in a tub of balls in the playroom. 
EXT. PLAYGROUND - DAY - 1989 
Kayleigh pushes Evan on a tire swing. 
INT. MULTIPLEX THEATER - NIGHT - 1995 
Tommy, glaring at Evan, thrashes the Teen Punk. 
EXT. JUNKYARD - DAY - 1995 
Burning sack in flames. 
EXT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - STREET - 1995 
QUICK FLASH of the U-Haul driving away. 
EXT. BUS STATION - DAY - 1995 
At thirteen, Kayleigh spunkily hops off a GREYHOUND BUS and runs into Evan's arms. 
EXT. ANDREA'S NEW HOUSE - DAY - 1995 
Still thirteen, Evan peddles his bike by his new house, Kayleigh riding on the handlebars. 
More memory flashes of Evan and Kayleigh throughout the teen years, they grow up as lovers now: 
EXT. LAKE - DAY - 1997 
Evan and Kayleigh have romantic picnic on a rowboat. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FIELD - SUNRISE - 2002 
Evan and Kayleigh watch the sunrise after senior prom. 
BACK TO: 
Thumper eyes this strange preppy kid with distaste. 
THUMPER Whasamatter? Lost your Rolex? 
EVAN Huh? 
THUMPER Fuck off, frat boy. 
Thumper walks away, leaving Evan dumbfounded. 
INT. COLLEGE CLASSROOM - DAY 
Evan runs into the lecture hall and gets in line behind other STUDENTS who are taking No. 2 pencils from a box on Professor Carter's desk. 
Evan hears PEOPLE he cannot see calling his name. Somehow, it's more creepy than cool. The Professor makes a loud announcement. 
PROFESSOR CARTER Remember, everyone! Only two weeks until your science projects are due. 
EVAN (quietly) I still owe you an essay from last week. Is there any way I could get an extension? 
PROFESSOR CARTER And you are...? 
EVAN (disappointed) Evan Treborn. 
PROFESSOR CARTER The answer's 'no', Mr. Treborn. Now take a seat. The exam's about to begin. 
Evan walks up the aisle and takes a seat. As he sits down, someone puts his ARM menacingly around Evan's throat. 
Evan flinches, turns around and sees Hunter, the frat guy Thumper assaulted the other night at Dirty Hank's bar. 
EVAN Leave me alone, asshole. I didn't lay a hand on you, okay? 
Hunter bursts out laughing. 
HUNTER Evan, you're hysterical. You study for this? 
EVAN (awkward) We'll find out soon enough. 
HUNTER (laughing) Me neither. 
Hunter surreptitiously hands Evan a cheat-sheet to the exam. Evan's face brightens. 
EVAN You're kidding. Are these the answers?! 
HUNTER Damn, Evan, on the D.L. 
EVAN (holding it lower) Thanks. Wow. Hey, I want to do something really special for Kayleigh tomorrow. If I said I needed some help from you and the brothers... 
HUNTER I'd say blow me. Get the pledges to do it. 
Evan nods and smiles as exams are passed down his row. 
INT. SORORITY BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Evan and Kayleigh have just finished having sex. She seems incredibly satisfied, but he looks slightly uncomfortable. 
KAYLEIGH Oh my God, that was good. Where'd you learn all those new tricks? 
EVAN So it didn't feel... weird? 
KAYLEIGH Yeah, if you call multiple orgasms weird. 
She giggles and snuggles into him. He's grateful for her affection, but still looks uneasy. The PHONE RINGS and he automatically answers it. 
EVAN Yellow. 
Silence on the other end. More silence. 
KAYLEIGH Fuck 'em. 
As Evan hangs up, he and Kayleigh share a giggle and he resumes snuggle position. 
EVAN What do you think it is about us that makes us so perfect? Like, looking back, whatever gave you the nerve to sneak out and visit me after I moved away? 
KAYLEIGH (laughs) As if my dad could've stopped me from seeing you. What's he gonna do to me? 
Evan smiles to himself. And hugs her tighter. 
EVAN You think we'll always be together? 
For the first time she looks at him with concern. 
KAYLEIGH That is the plan, right? Hell or high water? 
He's in heaven, but plays it cool. 
EVAN Just making sure. 
KAYLEIGH It's my fault. I should have told you he was released a few weeks ago. 
EVAN Might'a been nice. (re: pepper spray) Like this is gonna do any good. Maybe one of the frat guys has a gun. 
KAYLEIGH Please, Evan. Don't even joke. He wouldn't hurt you. He's just trying to scare you away from me. 
EVAN (shaking the cannister) Yeah, right. Tell that to Crockett. 
KAYLEIGH (quietly) It's not his fault, Evan. You knew how bad he had it when we were kids. 
EVAN Don't give me this Oprah-book club bad upbringing shit, because you turned out fine. 
KAYLEIGH (quietly) My father never laid a hand on me. It's like the prick saved it all up for Tommy. 
Evan sits in silence for a moment, contemplating this. Kayleigh's eyes plead for him to have compassion. 
EVAN Fine, then. We'll let campus security deal with him. 
EXT. COLLEGE QUAD - NIGHT 
Kayleigh and Evan walk through the all-but-deserted campus. Evan seems especially paranoid. In the distance, some guy vomits loudly. 
KAYLEIGH Are you okay? 
EVAN What do you mean? 
KAYLEIGH It's just... you've been acting kinda strange, you know? 
EVAN Like how? 
KAYLEIGH I don't know. You seem... different. You make weird jokes. Your accents changed. You don't even walk the same. 
EVAN I walk differently? 
KAYLEIGH I can't put my finger on it, but everything's a bit off. Even the dinner tonight. It was beautiful, but... 
EVAN I know I've been actin strange lately. It's just that... I don't want anything to happen to us. 
The guy along the path gags loudly into the bushes. Kayleigh and Evan instinctively avert their eyes. Suddenly, Kayleigh's ears perk and she stops walking mid-stride. 
KAYLEIGH Wait. Something's not right. Isn't that your jacket? 
EVAN What? 
The guy, wearing Evan's brown suede jacket, suddenly springs to his feet, revealing his face for the first time. 
KAYLEIGH Tommy. 
Tommy has grown in the last seven years. He has long, greasy hair and some tattoos. He holds a TIRE THUMPER (a short, steel bat for truckers) menacingly in his right hand. 
Evan stands frozen in fear, his hands rooted in his coat pockets. 
EVAN Leave us alone you sick fuck! 
TOMMY Get this "us" shit. As if I was gonna lay a hand on my own sister. You've done nicely for yourself, Evan. Nice friends, nice life, not to mention you're fucking my sister. Not a bad piece of ass if I say so myself. 
KAYLEIGH Shut up, Tommy! 
TOMMY Aw, hey now, that was a compliment. 
Tommy takes a few practice swings with the tire thumper. 
EVAN What the hell are you doing? 
TOMMY It wasn't enough that the whole world loves you, but you had to take away the last person on earth who didn't think I was a piece of shit. 
EVAN (suppressing panic) No one thinks you're a piece of shit, Tommy. 
TOMMY Right, Evan. I believe you just said "sick fuck." 
Tommy rushes Evan and bashes him with the tire thumper in the shoulder and ribs. 
Evan goes down. As Tommy prepares to bash his brains in, Evan whips out the Pepper Spray and nails Tommy in the face. 
Tommy reels back in pain, covering his eyes with this free hand. Evan struggles to his feet and circles around Tommy, keeping a distance as he douses Tommy with Pepper Spray. Kayleigh screams. Tommy blindly stumbles around, madly swinging the tire thumper. Evan charges forward in an uncontrollable rage, rips the weapon out of Tommy's hands and sprays a lethal dose of pepper spray into Tommy's open mouth. 
KAYLEIGH Evan, stop! You're gonna kill him! 
EVAN He's a fucking maniac! 
Evan knocks Tommy down with the tire thumper. Kayleigh screams and tries to hold Evan back, but he easily wrestles free of her. She runs to a blue streetlight on the quad. 
EVAN He ruined Lenny's life -- 
Evan kicks Tommy hard in the ribs. Kayleigh pushes a button on the "Blue Light" lamp post and an ALARM WAILS. 
EVAN He killed Crockett -- (kicks him) Murdered that woman and her baby! (kicks again) And he's trying to kill me, Kayleigh! He's trying to fucking kill me! 
Another Neo-Nazi, RICK, swats Evan's journals out of his hands and onto the floor. Life springs back into Evan as he rushes for the journals. He and Rick grab the journals at the same time. A minor tug of war. 
EVAN Let go! They're mine! 
Rick tears them away, Evan coming up with only a few torn pages. Evan sees the damage and goes mental. 
EVAN Motherfucker! 
Evan swings at Rick and misses. INMATES CHEER! It's on! Rick lunges for Evan, a brief and painful scuffle ensues, the journals getting trampled. Suddenly -- The sounds of COCKED RIFLES echo through the air. The fight stops instantly as Rick and Evan look up to see -- 
ANGLE ON 
OFFICER STATION. Officers aim rifles at the pair. From an upper tier, even more officers with more rifles. 
Their barrels sight directly at Evan. Rick steps away, quick to maliciously scoop up Evan's torn journals. 
KARL We'll be comin' for you tonight, sister. 
Evan catches his breath, then looks at the remaining few pages on the floor. 
INT. EVAN'S CELL - DAY 
Evan enters the cell with a few entry pages. He looks through them. Nothing there. 
Evan nods depressed, then sees the page from his "Age 7" journal, grabs Carlos' duct tape and tapes the page over his bed. 
INT. PRISON CORRIDOR - DAY 
Evan, walking toward some White Supremacists, flinches whenever the occasional INMATE brushes against him. Evan is completely paranoid, waiting for an inevitable attack. Karl makes himself visible among them, holding a journal. He reads: 
KARL (from Evan's journal) Today I found my grandfather's death certificate. He died in a nut house, just like my father. Mom denies it, but she thinks I'm gonna end up the same way... 
The other Supremacists start laughing and calling "looney" and "nut job." Evan rushes past them and they make chicken clucks at him. 
EXT. PRISON YARD - DAY 
Evan and Carlos sit on BLEACHERS that overlook the other prisoners working out. 
Evan closely watches Karl and Rick who stare daggers at him from across the yard. A SKINHEAD PASSES SOMETHING with a white-taped handle to Karl but no officers seem to notice. 
Evan slides closer to Carlos and stares at the Jesus Christ tattoos all over Carlos' back. 
EVAN You're religious Carlos, you believe that bit about "the Lord works in mysterious ways?" 
CARLOS Straight up. 
EVAN Because I think he sent me to your cell on purpose. For you to help me. 
CARLOS Shit. I knew you were crazy. 
EVAN I ain't bullshitting. Jesus speaks to me in my dreams. 
Carlos scoffs whatever. 
EVAN Pack of smokes says I can prove it to you. 
Carlos is suddenly interested. 
INT. EVAN'S CELL - LATER 
Evan holds a tattered journal entry in his hand and finishes up a conversation. 
Carlos looks dumbfounded. 
EVAN So when I'm out, I need you to watch my face and hands closely. 
CARLOS You need to see the prison shrink, man. 
Their conversation stops when a convict rolls a mail cart by, Evan looking up expectantly. 
EVAN Anything today? 
CONVICT Yep. Just not for you. 
Disappointed, Evan turns back to Carlos. Holds up his journal entry. 
EVAN Just tell me if anything weird happens. 
CARLOS Weirder than this? 
EVAN Marks, scars, I dunno. Anything could happen I guess. 
Evan studies the page. 
JOURNAL ENTRY 
"On Wednesday I got in trouble for a drawing that I didn't do. Mommy wont let me see it." 
WORDS from the entry begin to SHIMMER. REVERBERANT SOUNDS OF BARKING break the sound barrier and the image of Aryans storming the cell behind him become a FRENETIC BLUR 
SMASH CUT TO: 
EXT. JUNKYARD WOODS - DAY - 1995 
Evan, thirteen again, comes to in the woods. Evan stumbles at first, then rights himself. He seems strangely exhilarated. A sinister victory smile. 
EVAN Rot in hell you fucking animals. 
Kayleigh and Lenny, walking by his side, do a double take. Evan shrugs "just kidding" and looks around, getting his bearings. He whips his hand out and stops them. 
EVAN Wait. Before we -- 
He suddenly notices Kayleigh who now no longer looks an awkward and unkempt tomboy, but rather a vibrant and feminine young girl. Whereas her clothes were loose and unflattering before, she is now radiant and wears fashionable styles. Evan remembers his mission and darts over to a JUNK PILE. 
EVAN We need something to cut open the sack! 
Kayleigh and Lenny stare at him, concerned for his sanity. 
Evan roots through the trash until he finds something: a razor sharp piece of metal about two feet long. Evan offers it to Lenny. 
EVAN I want you to take this, Lenny. Today's your day of atonement. I know how guilty you feel about that woman and her baby -- 
KAYLEIGH Evan. Stop it. It's not the time. 
EVAN (frantic) Now's the only time! (to Lenny) Today you get a chance to redeem yourself. Start over with a clean slate. Tabula rasa -- 
LENNY What are you talking about? 
KAYLEIGH You're acting crazy! 
EVAN (desperate; to Lenny) Please. If you've ever trusted me before, trust me on this one. 
Evan places the metal shard in Lenny's hand. 
EVAN Cut the rope. 
Lenny slowly follows Evan as he bolts away. 
EXT. JUNKYARD - LATER 
Evan groans on the ground, writhing. Tommy's voice hitches, eyes watering from pent up frustration. 
TOMMY Listen to me good, Evan... 
EVAN I'll do whatever you want. You don't want me to ever see Kayleigh again, fine. Just let Crockett go. Besides, you kill him now and they'll stick you in juvy for sure. And I know you'd never leave your sister alone with your father. 
Evan's words hit home and Tommy's anger slowly dissipates. A look of understanding passes between them. Gratitude, even. 
Tommy looks at the sack and begins to untie it. Lenny comes screaming from nowhere like a bat out of hell! With all of the force he can muster, he jams the metal shard all the way through Tommy's throat! 
Tommy clutches his throat, gagging in blood. Evan surveys the scene in shock: 
EVAN Oh fuck, Lenny, no! 
Lenny drops to the floor, Indian style, wipes the dirt in his hands and freezes up completely. Kayleigh wakes up and SCREAMS when she sees blood spurt from Tommy's throat. 
Meanwhile, Crockett escapes from the sack. 
EVAN'S POV 
Lenny, silhouetted by the sky, seems to vibrate violently as if operating a jack-hammer. 
FLASH! 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. COLLEGE - EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT - 2002 
Evan comes to in a familiar place. His original college dorm - ONLY BACKWARDS. 
EVAN Christ. Help me. 
He sits upright in bed and takes in his surroundings. When suddenly, Evan clutches his head in severe pain. 
A MONTAGE OF IMAGES ASSAULT HIM: 
INT. SORORITY BEDROOM - DAY 
Color memories of Kayleigh's sorority fade to BLACK and WHITE and dissipate. 
EXT. FRAT HOUSE - NIGHT - 2002 
Memories of Evan's vandalized car fade to BLACK and WHITE and dissipate. 
INT. PENITENTIARY - DAY - 2002 
Still nothing. Not even a glance in his direction. Evan sighs and gives up. 
EVAN Okay, Lenny. Just wanted to say "hi". 
Evan turns around to leave. 
LENNY You knew the whole time, didn't you? (Evan spins around) When you put the blade in my hand, you knew something big was going to happen. Didn't you?! 
EVAN (jaw dropped) Y... yes. I guess I did. 
Lenny's eyes seethe with hate. 
LENNY Then you should be where I am. You should be where I am. 
Evan backs away, face guilt-stricken. 
INT. EVAN'S DORM - DAY 
Evan enters his dormroom (where everything's backwards), reaches under his bed and is relieved to find the journal marked "AGE 7". 
EXT. COLLEGE QUAD - DAY 
Evan is ignored by several Theta Chi pledges as he plops himself by a tree and hunts through his journal to find the entry from when he was seven and visited Jason at Sunnyvale. 
JOURNAL ENTRY 
"Today I get to mete my father. His name is Jason and he is crazy. I hope he lets me call him dad." 
Evan takes a calming breath and begins reading. 
EVAN (as if reciting a mantra) Today I get to meet my father. His name is Jason and he is crazy... 
Evan gets some strange looks, but continues. As he does, the trees and frisbee-playing students behind him VIBRATE and SHUDDER. 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. SUNNYVALE VISITOR'S CHAMBER - DAY - 1989 
Seven-year old Evan comes to during the time he first met his father, Jason. 
Jason waits patiently for young Evan to finish his sentence. 
JASON Are you okay? You looked like you were somewhere else for a second there. 
EVAN Look, Jason, I need some fast answers if I'm ever gonna fix what I've done. 
Jason is completely thrown. 
JASON I was praying this curse would have ended with me. 
EVAN But it didn't. And now I need info to make things right again and you're the only one who can give it to me. 
JASON (frustrated) There is no "right". When you change who people are, you destroy who they were. 
EVAN Who's to say you can't make things better? 
Jason seems extremely upset to hear Evan say this. 
JASON You can't play God, son. It must end with me. Just by being here, you may be killing your mother. 
EVAN Bullshit. I'll send you a postcard when I've made everything perfect again. 
Jason launches himself across the table, shackles and all, and grabs hold of Evan's throat. 
EVAN'S POV 
As Jason looks down at us, frothing at the mouth, there's a trick of the light where Jason's head seems to VIBRATE against the ceiling. 
FLASH! 
SMASH CUT TO: 
EXT. COLLEGE QUAD - DAY - 2002 
Evan's hands instinctively reach for his throat, then he realizes his surroundings. Heartbroken, he shuts the journal and stands up shakily. 
INT. RIDGEWOOD DINER - EARLY EVENING 
Evan eats in the same diner where Kayleigh used to work. As he eats, his arm sits in front of his plate, protectively. Guarding his food. 
WAITRESS Just get out, didja? 
EVAN Huh? 
WAITRESS (re: his arm) Nothing. Just that my brother did a stint in the pen and he used to eat like that. 
EVAN (defensively) I come from a big family. 
EVAN Yeah? 
KAYLEIGH On the bridge. How did you know that Tommy had your dog? That was no fucking hunch. 
EVAN Do you remember when I was a kid and I had those blackouts? 
Evan continues and Kayleigh listens with a mixture of intense interest and matched skepticism. 
DISSOLVE TO LATER: 
INT. DINER - NIGHT 
Kayleigh finishes a plateful of food at a busy diner. She lights up an after-dinner smoke. 
KAYLEIGH You're right, Evan, I don't believe you. 
EVAN I never thought you would. That's why I've never bothered to tell a soul until now, and why I never will again. 
KAYLEIGH I'm the only person you've told? That's a great line. Does that make other girls swoon? Do they actually eat up this bullshit? 
EVAN I couldn't give a shit if you believe me or not, and frankly I'm too tired to prove it to you. 
KAYLEIGH Oh? There's proof now? 
EVAN (tired) Shit. I dunno. How would I know about the twin moles on your inner thigh? 
KAYLEIGH Anyone with fifty bucks could tell you that. 
EVAN Then forget that. How about... you prefer the smell of a skunk to flowers, you hate cilantro because for reasons unknown to you, it reminds you of your step-sister. 
Kayleigh's jaw drops. 
EVAN Oh! And when you orgasm, your toes go numb. I'm sure your clientele aren't privy to that one. 
Kayleigh tries to conceal the surprise in her eyes. 
EVAN I just thought you should know. 
KAYLEIGH Know what? 
EVAN That I didn't leave you there to rot. 
Kayleigh flinches as if her should had been invaded, then her eyes fill with distrust and contempt. 
KAYLEIGH There's one major hole in your story. 
EVAN Which is? 
KAYLEIGH There is no fuckin' way on this planet or any other that I was in some fuckin' sorority. 
She opens Evan's wallet and leaves a twenty on the table. 
KAYLEIGH Sure you don't want your wallet? 
EVAN Don't think I'll need it where I'm going. 
KAYLEIGH Off to change everyone's life again, is that it? Maybe this time you'll pop up in some mansion while I wind up in Tijuana doing the donkey act. 
EVAN I'm over it. Whenever I try to help anyone it all turns to shit. 
KAYLEIGH Well, don't give up now, Slick. You've already done so much for me. Hell, why don't you go back in time and save Mrs. Halpern and her baby. Then maybe Lenny wouldn't freak out and ruin my family. 
She gets up and puts on her coat. 
KAYLEIGH Oh, here's one! Go back when I'm seven and fuck me in front of Daddy's handicam, you know, straighten me out a bit... 
She tosses his wallet over her shoulder at him and leaves. 
INT. EVAN'S DORM - DAY 
Evan enters his familiar looking dorm and hears the familiar sounds of Thumper having sex with another naked GOTHIC CO- ED. On Evan's bed. 
EVAN Get out. Both of you. 
THUMPER Sorry, dude. Just figured it'd be okay with you bein' sick and all. 
Evan's temper flares and he picks up a chair and SMASHES it against a wall above Thumper's head. 
EVAN I'm not saying it again. 
Thumper and the co-ed quickly cover themselves in the blankets and leave. Alone in the room, Evan looks under his bed and breathes a sigh of relief to see all of his journals are intact. He sifts through them again. He finally finds the passage he needs. Something catches the corner of Evan's eyes and he turns to examine it. 
To the left of Thumper's Buddha statuette sits a large VOTIVE CANDLE that bears a portrait of Jesus Christ. 
EVAN (humble) Lord give me the strength and guidance I need to set things right. 
As he begins reading a passage to himself, SOUNDS ECHO backward at us from another time and place. And the entire ROOM SHIMMERS around him -- 
Evan moans and tries to rub his temple with his stump. 
EVAN Where are we going? 
KAYLEIGH We have to get you to Sunnyvale. You're having one of your famous hemorrhages. 
EVAN Stop! Take me back! 
LENNY Sorry, tough guy, no can do. Your mother would kill me. 
Evan launches his body forward and spills clumsily out of the wheelchair. Lenny must halt in order not to crush Evan. As Evan writhes about on the floor, his legs paralyzed, a CROWD GATHERS. 
Evan focuses on Lenny, but it's hard to ignore the crowd that titters and snickers in the background. 
EVAN Take me back, Lenny! (teeth clenched) You owe me that much. 
Kayleigh turns to face the jeering crowd. 
KAYLEIGH What are you geeks looking at? Must be nice to be so goddamned perfect, huh? Fucking losers. 
The crowd breaks up and leaves. 
EXT. COLLEGE QUAD - DAY 
It's calm now. Lenny and Kayleigh push Evan's wheelchair around the quad. Evan now wears prosthetic arms. Random PEOPLE call out to Lenny. He's extremely popular in this world. 
LENNY 'Sup, Sheila! We missed you at the party! Don't even think I'm giving you my lab notes either! Think I like getting up for "eight thirty's"? 
Lenny pushes Evan past Thumper and Cricket. Their conversation stops and they stare at their feet as Evan gets wheeled by. Evan boils to be treated as if he were non-existent. 
LENNY Hey, there's Tommy. 
Evan spins around in fear. He sees Tommy, clean-cut, and handing out flyers in front of a banner that reads "Campus Crusade for Christ." Tommy seems good-natured now, working hard and soliciting names for his list. He looks up as Evan rolls along and his eyes brighten to see Evan. 
TOMMY I did what you said, man! We're pooling our student funds with Hillel House and we're going to have an Awareness Dance. 
EVAN Oh goody, nothing like spinning my chair around to a techno mix of Hava Nagila til I puke. 
Tommy frowns and exchanges glances with Lenny, who shrugs and nods back to him. 
LENNY Uh, we should be getting to class now. 
EVAN Forget it. What's the point of Psych now? Tomorrow I could wake up as some dirt farmer in Bangladesh. 
Another exchanged glance. Kayleigh looks at Evan. 
KAYLEIGH Let's go for a stroll. 
Evan allows Kayleigh to roll him away from the others. To the very spot where Evan once killed Tommy. 
Evan stares at his prosthetic hand which he can "magically" will to open, close, open, close... 
EVAN So Tommy's really into this Jesus kick, huh? 
Kayleigh looks at him curiously. 
KAYLEIGH You know how spiritual he's gotten ever since he saved Mrs. Halpern and Katie. 
EVAN He saved Mrs. Halpern? Please, the twisted fuck. 
Kayleigh, now by a bench. Stops and sits. As she casually uses her foot to turn his chair to face her, she pulls out a granola bar and hands it to him. 
His prosthetic hand crushes it. It crumbles to dust. She seems more confused. 
KAYLEIGH Is something the matter? 
EVAN (re: prosthetic arms) Yeah, I think I gotta get these fixed or something. 
She leans into him, gently feeding him her remaining bar. 
EVAN Kayleigh? Do you ever think about "us?" I mean, wonder if it could ever have been different between the two of us? 
KAYLEIGH Sure, Evan, why not? You were the first person I really ever cared about. 
EVAN I was? 
KAYLEIGH That's why when I was little I never went to live with my mother. 
EVAN I don't get it. 
KAYLEIGH (feeding another bite) When my folks split, they gave me and Tommy a choice who we wanted to live with. I couldn't stand my dad, but I knew if I moved to my mom's I'd never see you again. 
EVAN I never knew that. So then you still sometimes think of us... together? 
KAYLEIGH It's crossed my mind from time to time. 
EVAN (hopeful) And...? 
FLASH! 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. EVAN'S ROOM - SUNNYVALE - DAY - 2002 
Evan lies in a room, same posters from college adorn the walls. Blood flows freely now. 
EVAN (sobbing uncontrollably) Kayleigh... no! You can't die again! I won't let this happen. I won't! 
Evan fights off the pain and looks under his bed for something. 
EVAN Where are they?! 
His journals are missing! He runs from the room. 
INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFCIE - DAY 
Evan runs into Dr. Redfield's office just as another patient is leaving. 
DR. REDFIELD Hey, Evan. What's the big rush? We don't meet for another hour. 
EVAN Where are my goddamn books? 
DR. REDFIELD Books? 
EVAN My journals! Where are they? 
The doctor looks heartbroken, as if Evan has had a relapse. 
DR. REDFIELD It kills me to have to go through this again. There are no journals. There never were. It's part of this fantasy world your mind created to cope with the guilt of killing... 
Evan looks stunned. Refusing to believe it. 
DR. REDFIELD Think Evan. You've invented a disease that doesn't exist. Alternate universes with colleges, prisons, paraplegia... 
EVAN But I... I need those books. 
DR. REDFIELD You remind me of your father. He always screamed for a photo album even though he never had one. 
EVAN Photos? 
Evan's eyes roll back and he collapses lifelessly to the floor. 
INT. SUNNYVALE LABORATORY - DAY 
Evan lies on a platform and gets another series of CAT-scans. 
INT. EVAN'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Evan, no longer incapacitated, stares out the window into the darkness. Alone. 
Trapped. Hopeless. 
INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFICE - DAY 
Later that day, Dr. Redfield posts the new CAT-scan slides on the light box and shudders when he sees the results. Andrea looks on anxiously. 
DR. REDFIELD Jesus, no. 
Andrea, biting her nails, is unable to conceal her fear. 
ANDREA No dances, just tell me. 
DR. REDFIELD (devastated) The hemorrhaging... the neural damage is irreparable. I'm frankly surprised he still has use of his motor functions. 
Andrea begins to break down in tears. Evan secretly listens in from the hallway. 
His gaunt face looks deep in thought. He takes a breath and enters the lab, making sure not to look directly at his weeping mother. 
EVAN Hey, Mom, didja remember to bring those goofy old home movies we used to make? 
Andrea wipes tears away, nodding in advance. 
INT. DR. REDFIELD'S CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
Evan sees no one is watching him in the institution corridor as he throws his weight into the door of the doctor's office, breaking it open. 
Sporadically, severe VIBRATIONS invade Evan's environment, threatening to distract him from his mission. 
INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
Evan enters the office and tears the file cabinets apart, looking for something. 
His nose bleeds profusely and he repeatedly wipes the blood off his face with irritation. 
Evan sees a cardboard marked TREBORN, E. Grabs it and hides under the doctor's desk. 
