CANDLE TO WATER 
Written by 
Nick Green 
Shooting draft (05/04/12) 
BLACK 
SUPER 
`Veracity' 
Then: 
BROOKE VO (phone filter) There's never been anyone like you, since you. I love you Vaughn. I love you like no-one else ever has, or could. I'm not going to try to persuade you. Just follow your heart. OK? 
FADE IN ON 
1.01 INT. SALOON CAR ­ EVENING 
The car is stuck in rush-hour traffic, which surrounds VAUGHN (40), as he wrestles with the hardest decision of his life. 
He speaks into the car mobile phone kit microphone. 
VAUGHN I don't know. I mean I want you, I want to be with you. You know that. It's just . . . 
He glances at his mobile phone in its car kit dash cradle. The display says `OFFICE'. The lights of cars outside illuminate the falling snow, which is beginning to settle on the road. 
He waits. No response. No need for one. 
VAUGHN Can you . . . just give me twenty four hours ­ OK? 
Beat. The dashboard lights seem swirl around him. Stress. 
BROOKE OS (phone filter) Are you lost? You sound lost. 
VAUGHN Thought I'd try a new way home. Beat the traffic, you know. 
He looks at the sea of cars around him sardonically. 
BROOKE OS (phone filter) A little girl fell in love with a little boy. Still falling over here! 
Her laughter sounds loud on the car phone speakers. 
VAUGHN OK ­ I'll call you, babe. OK? 
Beat. The dashboard lights. Snow. Rush hour. Stress. 
His satnav sounds bizarrely loud, suddenly: 
SATNAV VOICE In point two of a mile, keep right . . . 
BROOKE (laughter, phone filter) See ­ even she's on my side! (beat) I love you Vaughn. Once upon a time. 
Vaughn takes a deep breath, loathes the traffic outside. 
His phone display indicates another incoming call: `Mia'. 
VAUGHN I love you too. I gotta. . . I'll call you ­ OK. Bye baby. 
BROOKE OS (phone filter) Another call. Is it her? 
VAUGHN (hesitant) Yes. 
BROOKE OS (phone filter) I guess you better take it. 
2|Page Vaughn looks at the incoming call display message. His finger hovers between the `accept' or `reject call' buttons. 
VAUGHN I have to go. I'll call you. . . 
BROOKE OS (phone filter) I know. I figured. 
VAUGHN What does that mean? Look you know how it is. I'll see you very soon. Always ­ OK? Ciao baby. 
Vaughn holds a can of soup - all that's left of his dignity. 
Mia puts the shopping away in the cupboards and the fridge. 
The tension is palpable. Silence strangles them both. 
Mia finishes putting things away without looking at him. 
The last item goes in the last cupboard. Bags are stored. 
A beat. Vaughn's body is wracked by guilty tension. 
MIA (still no eye contact) You out later then darling? 
SUPER 
Don't do this to me - please? 
Vaughn hides his torment and indecision as best he can. 
VAUGHN Yeah. Probably. I don't know. 
SUPER 
I don't love you anymore. 
BROOK VO Just follow your heart. OK? 
Mia takes the can of soup from him and puts it away. 
5|Page MIA (eventually) Fine. 
SUPER 
Do I disgust you that much? 
Mia leaves the kitchen without looking at him. 
CUT TO 
1.05 INT. SUBURBAN SEMI ­ DAY 
Vaughn, Mia and Pip sit at the table eating lunch. 
PIP But why not? Daddy said we could. Daddy? 
Vaughn reacts half-heartedly but lovingly to Pip. Mia pretends everything is fine: the stiffness of her body and the smile. 
VAUGHN I'm not sure sweetheart. 
BROOK VO (seductive whisper) You promised. 
Vaughn looks at Pip's hands. Innocence. The stony road ahead. 
MIA Daddy's not feeling too well, darling. I'm sure a swim will do us all good. 
The lack of eye contact with Vaughn speaks volumes. 
PIP Daddy? Please? Mia said you'd. . . 
Mia chastises Pip. 
MIA Mummy. It's mummy! Who's Mia!? 
PIP Mamma Mia! 
Vaughn manages to smile. He wants to throw up. 
6|Page VAUGHN Sure thing, nitwit. Let's give it half an hour to let our lunch go down. I'm fine. 
SUPER 
Daddy you are a lying piece of shit. 
1.06 INT. SUBURBAN SEMI ­ DAY 
BROOKE My lord. 
She smiles her love. He accepts it. He wants it ­ all of it. 
She puts the kettle on. A beat of silence. 
BROOKE What you did . . . I mean I appreciate what you've done for me ­ for us. All I can tell you is that it will be worth it. We're meant to be together, V. You've always said that. 
His mobile phone bleeps a text message. He ignores it. 
VAUGHN Come on. You don't owe me anything. I made a choice. 
He grabs her, kisses her. He looks like a man trying to convince himself that if he ignores it, reality will go away. 
Emotion overwhelms her, so she gets busy with the tea. Vaughn looks around again, and out of the window. A cheap view, too. 
BROOKE I've been waiting to show you. 
She smiles again. Taking her cue, he looks at the portrait photography on the walls in the living room. It's brilliant. 
VAUGHN My God, Brooke. It's . . . 
He is lost for words. 
9|Page BROOKE You want to grab a shower. We should go out and celebrate. 
She does another little dance of joy. 
VAUGHN You're telling me I stink. Mea culpa! 
BROOKE No! 
She screams a little, laughs a lot. She buries her nose in his armpits ­ or tries to. They play-fight and kiss. The kiss develops into more. She wants him. They are lost in each other until Vaughn slows them down, pulls back slightly, gently. 
VAUGHN I'll take a shower. 
BROOKE I'll show you. Might even watch you. A man in my shower. The little boy a little girl fell in love with. Once upon a time. 
VAUGHN (the boy inside) He's still in there somewhere. 
BROOKE And now . . . 
The kettle boils. It doesn't turn itself off. They hold each other's eyes. The kettle over boils. The thing between them builds and builds until she suddenly laughs and turns the kettle off. He indicates upstairs, and then exits upstairs. 
She watches him go. Her excitement is obvious. If she senses that something is wrong, there is no outward sign of it. 
1.13 INSERT 
IMAGES: Brooke being attacked by a knife wielding lover; Brooke curled in a bloody ball, weeping; Brooke the 5 year old child playing with a 7 year old boy in long lost sunshine. 
CUT TO 
10 | P a g e 1.14 INT. CHEAP FLAT ­ HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Dusting snow off them, Vaughn and Brooke come through the front door, which Brooke closes behind them. They're drunk, laughing, and sexual. Snow falling is visible outside. 
1.15 LATER INT. CHEAP FLAT ­ BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Vaughn and Brooke fall onto her bed. They undress each other. The momentum builds until knife scars on Brooke's body are revealed. He sees them. She turns the light off, tries to hide them. She tries to make light of it but she's ashamed of them. 
The momentum of their desire founders, and stops. 
BROOKE (eventually) I'm so sorry. 
SUPER 
Accept me - I beg you. 
VAUGHN (hushing her) Don't be daft. I'm sorry. It's. . . 
SUPER 
You're damaged. How can I want you? 
BROOKE You don't need to be. Take your time. 
SUPER 
I don't care anymore. 
BROOKE Start on Monday. It'll be good for us ­ we can be DINKYs. 
SUPER 
I beg you with all my life. 
VAUGHN It's great ­ really. 
SUPER 
Forgive me ­ I want only that. 
BROOKE You're hungry. Thirsty? Let me get you a drink. Drink for my king. Then maybe . . . 
She twirls a seductive finger around his tie. They kiss. 
17 | P a g e 1.29 INT. CHEAP FLAT ­ BEDROOM - EVENING, LATER 
Vaughn and Brooke begin to make love in bed. It's better this time: their passion builds; it's going to be OK. But then 
He begins to falter and she begins to cry. Her cry becomes a 
SCREAM 
Vaughn pulls back from her, looks at her. Her terror. 
VAUGHN Tell me! For God sake . . . 
She suddenly seems alone, naked on the bed. She tries one last time: she goes to him, touches him; but he can't respond. 
He realises. And now her dream is over. 
VAUGHN Who did this to you? 
BROOKE Does it matter? He was jealous. He's everything you're not. Vaughn? You love me. Baby? You don't need to fear him. They're just scars. Oh God, no. Vaughn? They're just scars for God sake. This is my body! 
Vaughn searches for words, but he finds only his reality. 
Reaching critical emotional mass, she gets up quickly, puts the overhead light on. It seems stark and horribly bright. 
She weeps, reveals her damaged knife SCARRED body to him. 
BROOKE Can you see properly? Can you? (of her scars) Do you like them? 
1.30 INSERT 
IMAGE: Brooke being shanked by her jealous ex-lover. 
BACK WITH 
1.31 INT. CHEAP FLAT ­ BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Vaughn suddenly feels as vulnerable as she looks. 
18 | P a g e VAUGHN (incredulous) Why didn't you tell me? 
BROOKE Smart question Vaughn, smart. 
He looks at her. He sees suicide in her eyes. 
She suddenly lunges for him, starts to punch him. To Vaughn this now has the quality of a nightmare. This is impossible. 
BROOKE Love me. 
They struggle. She's no match for him, but he is half hearted. 
BROOKE Love me! 
He takes it. She smashes at him. His nose and mouth bleed. 
BROOKE Love me, bastard! COWARD! 
There is an unusually long delay before Mo responds. 
Mo approaches, and stops when he reaches DOLORES. 
MO No sweat Doll. 
DOLORES Dolores! How many more times? 
But she's smiling. There's familiarity between them. When Mo smiles, however, the smile seems out of place on his face. 
MO No worries Doll. 
21 | P a g e Mo laughs. A strange laugh. She throws him an angry face. 
DOLORES Sorry mister Caudwell. Mo here will see you out. I have to . . . 
She heads off, pulling one last face at Mo as she goes. 
CY OK (indifferent) thanks. 
Cy's voice is barely audible as he rummages in boxes. 
Mo looks in at him. He gets a text, checks it, and responds. 
With a `ha!', Cy pulls something out of a box. Mo waits. As he does so, he shifts his weight from his right foot to his left. 
Cy emerges from the storage area looking flushed with effort. 
CY Thanks. 
MO No sweat. 
Mo goes to lock storage area 110. Cy looks at the object he has retrieved: an old VHS video cassette. Mo sees it. 
MO Wow ­ that's an old VHS isn't it? 
CY It is indeed. Are we done? 
Cy speaks to him grudgingly. He wants to get the hell out. 
The door locked, Mo starts to walk away from 110 with Cy. 
MO Ain't seen one of those for years. Never used one. 
CY Really. 
Cy walks way ahead of Mo. The hell out of here. 
MO Wait ­ I gotta sign you out man. Paperwork. You got the forms? 
22 | P a g e CY Man? What the hell happened to `sir'? 
His disgust is obvious in the way he avoids looking at Mo. 
MO Sir? You're a knight? The queen dub you or something? If I don't call you sir that doesn't mean I don't respect. It just means I don't call you sir. 
CY Fine. It doesn't really matter. Sorry. 
Cy walks faster but Mo knows he doesn't know where he's going. 
Mo looks more closely at him. 
MO Wait ­ you're that director. 
CY Can we please just finish up and go. I'm late. 
MO Seriously ­ I know you. I'm an actor. We met once. Maybe . . . 
Cy keeps walking but doesn't know where he's going. 
CY You've got the wrong man. 
MO No seriously. We met at an audition. You auditioned me. 
Cy just speeds up. 
Mo lets go of Cy's hand. Cy is relieved. They walk on. 
CY (looking around for exit) How hard can this be? 
MO (as Cy speaks, above) Pros or ho's ­ know what I'm saying. 
Mo laughs. It's a strange sound. 
MO What's on the video? None of my biz, I know; but I'm curious. 
26 | P a g e CY If you must know, it's a show- reel. An old one. 
MO Yup. Got the old bit. (looks at the VHS. Old) Wow. (laughs) Ain't you got one online? Mine's online. 
They round a corner. Cy twigs they're back where they started. 
CY Right. Get us the fuck out of here or I'm going to . . . 
Cy reaches for his mobile phone. He goes to dial, but Mo 
SMASHES 
it out of his hand. It hits the floor and breaks. 
2.35 EXT. STORAGE DEPOT ­ DAY, SAME TIME 
People coming and going and cars and lorries and the city skyline. Nothing out of the ordinary. The way things are. 
2.36 INT. STORAGE DEPOT ­ DAY, SAME TIME 
Cy stares at his smashed phone, at Mo. Mo's face is a mask. 
The mask eventually moves. Confusion hits Mo's face. It's as if another part of him did that, a part he can't control. 
MO Look sorry about that dude, but you need to let me know. That's my simple question: what happened. 
Panic starts to show itself in Cy's face. Deep down. 
CY What happened? 
MO The audition. I didn't get the job. 
Mo shifts his weight from his right foot to his left. 
Cy glances around, at his smashed phone on the floor. 
27 | P a g e He looks up, sees CCTV cameras. He stoops down to pick up the parts of his broken phone. He finds the SIM card, pockets it. 
There's something pathetic about the way he stoops. 
MO (eventually) Seriously. The Silver thing. 
Cy stands, meets Mo's gaze full on for the first time, really. 
CY Look I don't know. Actors ­ we would have seen dozens. I mean it was a long time ago. I don't know what you mean `what happened'. 
Mo just looks at him. Unsettling. 
CY If you didn't get it, you didn't get it. It's the - (nervous laugh) - it's the way of the world, no? 
Mo just looks at him. A door opens and closes somewhere. 
CY This is ridiculous. 
Cy sets off on his own walking again. He's had enough. 
MO I know how good you are. 
Cy stops, turns. What? 
MO I know your true potential. I know your talent doesn't belong packed up in here. Your greatness. And you've failed. 
Cy swallows air. 
CY What are you doing? 
It's dark, and to Cy feels like a cage. 
CY You think you can actually DO THIS?! What the fuck. . . 
Cy screams `Help'. No response. 
Mo looks around. He pulls up a box on one side, and sets an old chair opposite it on the other side of the caged area. 
31 | P a g e Cy throws himself at the door, heaves at it. 
CY What the fuck, sunshine. Equity subscriptions lapsing are they? 
MO Cy, seriously, man who directed nothing: let's just get this right. Then we can get on with things. You can go back your self-loathing and I can continue my rounds. 
CY What!? Screw you. (loud, to anyone again for help) FUCK YOU! 
Mo smashes his fist into Cy's face. 
CY What the fuck is the matter with you? Jesus Christ! 
MO Jesus not in here, bro. Christ a nipple sucked by mugs. One born every minute, tick tock. 
Mo flicks his keys around in circles. Shock grips Cy's throat. 
MO OK. So what's the brief? 
CY What? 
MO What's the scenario? Set the scene for me. Point me in the right direction. Even Brando needed goalposts. 
Cy looks around for escape. A phone rings, somewhere OS. 
CY Help. HELP! 
The phone stops ringing. A silent vastness of industrial dark. 
32 | P a g e MO No sweat, Doll. Just relax. This place is damn big. And you're talking to the big expert here. (shows Cy his shoes) Gotta do a circuit every hour. (beat) We gonna just do this thing, then it's home free. OK? Relax. 
Cy tries to slow his breathing down, get a grip. 
MO That's it old fella. Get sorted out. In and out. Let it all be cool. 
Cy's breathing in the dark. Mo's keys. No way out. 
CY You'll be missed. 
He jerks his head. He means the office ­ colleagues. 
MO Well not really Mister De Mille. It's just me and Doll today. Cutbacks. Don't ya love them? 
Cy tries the door again, but it's half-hearted. 
MO Set me straight, mister director! 
Mo stands, suddenly, and comes over to Cy quickly. He grabs him by the hair and forces him to sit down on the old chair. 
MO The director's chair. 
CY What the fuck do you want? 
MO You know what I want. Just like you: another chance. Audition me again, you fucking VHS crumb. Give me my brief. Motivation, reality ­ the whole bit. Go. 
Mo sits down opposite Cy on the box. He waits. 
33 | P a g e Cy stares at him. This is insane. But he has no choice. 
CY Do what you want, wanker. 
Mo immediately gets up, starts beating him to pulp. 
2.39 INT. THE WAREHOUSE - DAY 
Row after row of caged storage areas. Industrial vastness. 
No hint of violence. No sign of anything wrong. 
It's agony, but eventually Cy manages to speak. 
CY You did it. You got the job. 
Mo stands, smiles, basking in his moment of glory. 
This is his prize. This is his moment. But his face darkens. 
MO LIAR! 
Mo starts to beat Cy gain, but this time he kicks him too. He goes berserk, throwing Cy around like a rag doll, pulping him. 
2.46 INT. THE BOX - DAY 
Dolores enters. 
DOLORES Cuppa, Mo? Mo? 
The room is empty. She approaches Mo's desk. She doesn't even glance at the bottle of prescription pills, on which the word `suppression' is just visible. She glances at the CCTV screens. Nothing. She presses a button, bringing up the display from another CCTV. She sees the grainy, monochrome image of Cy's pulped face being smashed against the bars of 222. As she gasps in horrified reaction and grabs the phone 
37 | P a g e CUT TO 
2.47 EXT. STORAGE DEPOT ­ DAY, SAME TIME 
People coming and going and cars and lorries and the city skyline. Nothing out of the ordinary. The way things are. 
Very slowly, gradually, we 
FADE TO BLACK 
38 | P a g e Story #3 
BLACK 
SUPER `Crackerjack' 
3.48 EXT. LONDON E3 - EVENING 
Footsteps and breathing: the SOUNDS of a young man running for his life. The staccato pounding of his feet becomes a mantra that builds until it develops a life of its own, and a surreal edge. It becomes a ghostly, dreamlike sound ­ evil perhaps. 
The running footsteps suddenly stop. The breathing continues. 
JADEN VO (between breaths) Aight ­ am done runnin'. Do what ya gotta do. 
Beat, then 
FADE IN ON 
3.49 INT. COUNCIL HOUSE ­ EVENING 
AUSTEN (12) plays Skyrim on a brand new Mac PowerBook. The hi- tech, futuristic sheen of the Apple is utterly at odds with the room Austen is in: money seems to be in short supply here. 
Austen is a cut and paste hoodie: a white boy going nowhere. 
JADEN (18, white) enters. Lean and strong, Jaden is savvy ­ but drugs have left their mark on his face and in his eyes. 
JADEN What the fuck, my fam . . . 
He grabs the Mac from Austen. They push and pull for it. 
AUSTEN No way! Fuck off now, brah! 
Jaden whacks Austen around the head ­ light, but hard enough to break his grip. Jaden puts the computer to one side; the way he handles it suggests that replacing it would be a synch. 
Austen attacks him, but Jaden restrains him. 
39 | P a g e JADEN You got homework. Do the work. 
AUSTEN Fuck that. Gimme . . ! 
Austen makes for the Mac again, but Jaden restrains him. 
They fight a moment, but it's futile: Austen pulls back, humiliated and outraged. He kisses his teeth and birds. 
JADEN Don't be doin' that fam. It's all wrong. You ain't black yet. 
ON Austen's snarl, FREEZE FRAME and 
3.52 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE ­ EVENING 
In the kitchen-diner: Jaden, Austen and their dad: PAUL (50s). 
Paul says a prayer before they eat their corner shop meal. 
Jaden's hands are together in respect for Paul. Austen deliberately pays no attention to the ritual at all. 
PAUL . . . for this gift of daily bread we thank thee oh Lord. . . 
Jaden throws Austen a look. Mean and fierce. And now suddenly we see what he's capable of. Fear overcomes Austen's arrogance. He puts his hands together and closes his eyes. 
PAUL . . . and for the gift of these fine sons I thank thee oh Lord. . . 
The crucifix on the wall. Christ's tormented face in the cheap shadows of this dull, crappy kitchen. It's all Paul has. 
PAUL . . . beseech thee to look down on them and protect them with thy everlasting mercy . . . 
Seeing Jaden's eyes now closed in prayer for Pauls' sake 
Austen can't resist feeling the wad of new cash in his pocket. 
42 | P a g e PAUL Thanks be to God. Amen. 
The boys join him in `Amen' ­ Jaden properly; Austen barely. 
They begin to eat their corner shop meal. 
Austen sees a shadow cross Jaden's face as Jaden remembers 
3.53 INT. E3 HOUSE ­ NIGHT 
In washed-out, high grain: 
Jaden necks and smooches with a black girl called LYCIA. 
Around them the party pops: drugs and big bass and wannabe cool young kids getting into each other or off on each other. 
Lycia smiles and laughs and love the attention, but 
A young black guy ­ J.C. ­ looks death at her, his girl, then at Jaden, who meets the challenge of the alpha competition. 
Jaden feels the bulge in his belt at the base of his spine. 
3.54 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE ­ EVENING, LATER 
The meal over, Jaden does the dishes. Paul sits at the table. 
Austen playing Skyrim in the next room is audible. 
Paul breaks down in a fit of coughing. 
Christ watches on. 
JADEN Fuck. 
Jaden suddenly leaves the sink and goes into the 
3.55 INT. LIVING ROOM - EVENING 
Jaden grabs the Mac off Austen again. This time Austen cowers. 
3.56 INT. KITCHEN - EVENING 
Paul lights a cigarette. A moment's pleasure. He slips into what might be a reverie, or just exhaustion. ON PAUL, hearing this as Paul might - given his dislocated state of mind: 
43 | P a g e JADEN OS (angry) Get with the fuckin' homework, swear . . . Told ya before get on with it . . . (calmer) One life, one chance, my fam . . . I help ya, no sweat . . . (angry again) Just get with it, ya little . . . 
The sound of a punch, perhaps. 
Paul flinches. He looks to Christ. Christ is tormented. 
3.57 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE ­ EVENING, LATER 
Jaden feels the bulge in his belt at the base of his spine. 
JADEN (between breaths) Aight ­ am done runnin'. Do what ya gotta do. 
The big black guy comes at him with the shank. It's J.C. ­ the hood from the party. The other guys back him up. 
J.C. An' all   dis for a three oh four. (kisses   his teeth) You could had her   anyways if you'd asked me nice   fam, swear. 
J.C. lunges at Jaden. His shank cuts Jaden mid torso. The other guys follow up, their blades flashing, searching. 
Jaden withdraws the bulge at the base of his spine. His gun. 
BOOM ­ his gun speaks - he shoots J.C. dead. 
BOOM, BOOM 
46 | P a g e The gun speaks to the other two guys, killing China outright and wounding the white guy badly. White guy falls, screaming. 
JADEN Shut the fuck . . . 
He kneels over white, tries to stop him screaming. But he 
SCREAMS 
over and over - blood pouring from his punctured chest. 
JADEN 
Looks around, desperate for him to stop it. Already 
THE STREETS 
around him are changing ­ as if they are turning to look but 
WHITE GUY 
Screams and grabs at his bleeding chest. His wild eyes beg. 
JADEN 
Begins to fold, to lose it as reality comes rushing in and he 
SHOOTS 
White guy dead. Shuts up. Silent streets. Then after forever 
SIRENS 
Grow out of the darkness. 
Jaden throws his gun away instinctively. Incrimination. He starts to run. Changes his mind. Turns and picks the gun up. 
Sirens seem to haunt the city. And now Jaden 
RUNS 
So that the city is just lights and people and cars and noise and people and darkness and people and there, amongst them 
AUSTEN 
Watching him, his brother and his idol. So now we 
CUT TO BLACK 
47 | P a g e 3.61 INT. / EXT. IMAGES, STROBE FAST: 
Jaden crouches down in the darkness, blood on his hands, blood on his shirt, blood on his cut torso, blood on his soul. 
Jaden stashes his gun in a cloth under the floorboards. 
Jaden is tormented by what he's done. Self-loathing. 
J.C. and the other dead guys ­ a bloodbath. Sirens growing. 
Jaden throws up on a street corner. 
49 | P a g e 3.72 EXT. E3 ­ NIGHT 
Jaden walks the streets. Hoods look at and greet him in a different way. Respect, but this is a dead man walking. 
3.73 INT. / EXT. GOLF GTI/E3 ­ DAY 
Jaden drives Austen, who is in his school uniform. His hands up on the wheel, the dragon tat on Jaden's arm is visible. 
To Austen, Jaden looks a little pale, a little ill. 
They see a cop car. Another passes them coming the other way. 
AUSTEN Five oh everywhere. Wot's poppin? 
JADEN Police. They're called police. 
AUSTEN Bacon fryin' for breakfast. 
Jaden throws him a look. 
Their shared secret dominates their every breath. 
AUSTEN Wot's poppin with the pussy, fam? 
JADEN Jesus fucking Christ. You mean how's the young lady in your life, my blood? Since when the fuck you become some kind of born again reggin? 
AUSTEN I wonder if you should mind you language in front of your baby brah, blood. 
JADEN I say blood, you say blood. I say brah, you say brah. I say. . . 
AUSTEN Potato, potarto, tomato, tomarto. 
They drive a while. Then Jaden sees that Austen's hair 100% exactly matches his own in terms of its length and styling. 
50 | P a g e JADEN You get your hair cut? 
AUSTEN And? 
They approach the school. 
Austen glances at Jaden's torso and then gets out of the car. 
JADEN Brah? You turn into me and I'll kill you - hear? 
Austen looks at him. Tears well up in his eyes. He nods. 
Emotionless, Jaden closes the car door and drives off. 
On the pavement, Austen watches him go. 
3.74 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE ­ NIGHT 
By torchlight under his duvet, Austen draws a `tat' on his forearm with a biro that matches Jaden's real tat perfectly. 
3.75 INT. JADEN'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Smoking a bong and drinking, his headphones on and the music cranked high, Jaden fights an inner battle he can never win. 
He looks at his gun on his bedside table. A thing of new evil. 
Septic, the wound in his torso is draining him of life. 
3.76 INT. CHURCH ­ DAY 
Jaden and Austen kneel beside Paul in prayer. Except that Jaden only kneels on one knee and Austen on neither; and neither of them are really praying. Beside them Paul prays with worshipers in the congregation of a dozen or so. 
Jaden's hoodie hood is down out of respect. Austen has his hoodie hood up. Jaden pulls it down. Austen throws him a look, kisses his tongue. Jaden's eyes darken. Austen relents. 
Jaden looks over, sees a man who seems wrong in here. He twigs: plain clothes COP. Cops don't pray and this one is. 
51 | P a g e 3.77 EXT. E3 ­ NIGHT 
Jaden sprints flat out through the people, cars, and lights. At this speed his footsteps are barely a fluttering staccato. 
He won't make it. 
He makes a gun of his hand and shoots himself in the mirror. 
Cool. 
3.87 EXT. LYLE PARK, CANNING TOWN, LONDON ­ EVENING 
Fugitive Jaden stands looking into the flowing river. He is pale and gaunt and dirty. Austen stands behind him. He looks exactly how Jaden used to look. And his torso is bandaged. 
Jaden squints at him. 
JADEN Why you fuckin' grass me up. Though you was my brah. 
Austen thinks about it for a while. 
AUSTEN I didn't tell the pigs. Just (falters, then) . . . just Hugo up school. 
Traffic SOUNDS ebb and die. History flows down to the sea. 
AUSTEN Told because I was proud of ya brah. Massive proud. 
Jaden looks at him. Proud of him? Fuck. 
AUSTEN Couldn't help it. 
Jaden has to hold on to the railings now. 
AUSTEN What the pigs gonna do with ya? 
54 | P a g e Jaden looks around him. Darkness is falling. 
Austen produces a gun from the base of his spine. His gun. 
JADEN Where the fuck . . ? 
He stares at Austen's gun. Tears blur the evening. 
He says it with his tears. This isn't going to happen to you. 
AUSTEN Only way you're gonna stop me turning into you is by killing me, brah. Long one short. 
Austen holds his arms out as if to say `this is what I am'. 
Jaden reaches for the base of his spine. 
Austen stands there waiting for Jaden's bullet. 
Jaden takes his hand away from his gun. 
Jaden mumbles something inaudible. 
AUSTEN Say what brah? Too much . . . 
He indicates his ears, that wanking makes you deaf, laughs. 
JADEN (a mumble) Said go home. Fix dad's tea. I'll be there soon as. OK? 
3.88 EXT. ROYAL VICTORIA DOCK ­ NIGHT, LATER 
Jaden stands there alone. It's getting cold. 
AUSTEN VO (Jaden's memory) Only way you're gonna stop me turning into you is by killing me, brah. 
JADEN Got a better idea, baby blood. 
Jaden pulls out his gun and shoots himself in the head. Dead. 
55 | P a g e 3.89 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE ­ EVENING 
In the kitchen-diner: Austen and Paul at the table. 
Paul says a prayer before they eat their corner shop meal. 
Austen's hands are together in respect for Paul. 
But Paul can't speak. Austen sees his tears, which escape from behind the barrier of his cracked hands like eager jewels. 
Thug#2 works Nicholas expertly, and with professional care. 
URI Alright, alright ­ thank you Mister Karaczun. This is . . . 
This is getting them nowhere. Uri looks at Nicholas' pulped face ­ at the new damage that Thug#2 has done. Pointless. 
Thug#2 stands back, waits. 
58 | P a g e Uri stands, goes to a cabinet and pulls out a set of surgical implements. He puts a pair of rubber sanitary gloves on. He lays out the implements on a metal table beside Nicholas. 
He goes to work. 
4.93 INT. ARTIST STUDIO ­ DAY 
ELLE (30's) draws a female nude in white pastel on black paper. The drawing is as exquisite as she is, if that's possible. Elle is the kind of woman that men will do anything for - the kind of unforgettable beauty you see very rarely. 
Elle takes extreme care with the drawing. Her attention to it and involvement with it is absolute. She is alone in the studio, which contains other drawings and simple furnature. 
The SOUNDS of Uri torturing Nicholas OVER are in extreme, hideous contrast to the beauty of Elle and her drawings. The contours of Elle's face and the fine lines and moments of shade in her drawing. The sounds of unimaginable suffering. 
Five minutes of drawing. Five minutes of Nicholas' screams. 
Then the SOUND of Uri dropping an implement and cursing. 
The Thugs mumbling. 
CUT TO BLACK 
A heart PULSE falters, and then stops. 
An electrocardiograph flat line SOUND. 
A beat, then 
UP ON 
4.94 INT. RESEARCH ROOM, FACILITY ­ DAY 
Uri stands back. There is blood all over his rubber gloves and some on his apron. He looks at Nicholas, feels his pulse. 
Nicholas is dead. 
4.95 INT. BOARD ROOM, FACILITY - DAY 
Uri sits at a huge, polished oak business meeting table. He is now dressed in a business shirt, tie and three-piece suit. But a louche handkerchief in his breast pocket adds a touch of flare to his sombre ensemble. Uri is somewhat frustrated. 
59 | P a g e Three other suits are at the table: BOOTHY (50s), the boss, SILK (40s), #2, and PARKER (30s), #3. All but Parker are middle class and business-like. In here, PC efficiency is all. 
BOOTHY Has the next of kin been informed? 
Silk clears his throat. 
SILK Not yet sir. 
BOOTHY (inform her) There's never a good time. 
SILK Yes sir. 
Silk makes a note on his iPad. 
Boothy looks at Uri as if waiting for an explanation. 
URI Our intelligence . . . 
The irony of that comment creates a response that emanates from Boothy and travels round the table hierarchically. 
BOOTHY As the board understood it, the prisoner was verified as the jihadi. There was DNA. . . 
URI We now believe the evidenced might have been contaminated. 
BOOTHY (not impressed) Was there any form of extraction? 
URI The suspect revealed nothing of the activities of which he was suspected by the board, sir. 
PARKER Fruit was not born. 
Boothy reads something else on his laptop: 
63 | P a g e BOOTHY NP was arrested on the night of the fourth (reads more then) Transported under guard to the facility. Work began on the seventh to determine. . . 
Boothy removes his glasses, looks at Uri. 
BOOTHY So what was going on between the fourth and the seventh? 
Uri clears his throat. 
URI I was on holiday, sir. 
SILK Ah. Anywhere nice? 
URI Malaga again, sir. My wife does like it there. 
BOOTHY Well not a bad choice at that time of year. We recommended that to do didn't we? 
URI You did, sir, yes. Your wife actually sent us the brochure if you recall. 
4.98 INT. ARTIST STUDIO ­ DAY 
The phone rings. Elle leaves her drawing reluctantly, but then smiles when she answers the phone. She misses her man! 
ELLE Hello. (then, disappointed) Yes. (then, with dread) Yes. 
BOOTHY VO We actually tried Corfu this year. Not bad ­ though it could have been warmer. 
Elle listens to the caring sharing voice on the phone. 
64 | P a g e She listens, then puts her hand to her mouth. Her beautiful eyes cloud with tears. She starts to buckle and sway. Then she collapses. There's a certain grace to the way she does it. 
SILK VO I can actually recommend Crete at this time of year. A bit populous, but there are places where one can escape the hordes. 
Elle drops the phone. 
4.99 INT. BOARD ROOM, FACILITY - CONTINUOUS 
Boothy and Parker laugh at/with Silk. Uri's face is stone. 
BOOTHY Oh Lord, Michael; if we left it to you we'll all be holidaying on the Norfolk Broads! 
Silk pulls a `well actually' face. There is some laughter until Boothy stops laughing and re-focusses on their agenda. Boothy reads from his laptop again, then removes his glasses. 
BOOTHY What we're left with is something of a mess. I'm sure you agree. 
He looks at Uri and waits. The others do the same. 
URI Sorry sir I don't suppose we could get some . . . I'm . . . 
Uri makes a thirsty gesture. Mildly irritated, Boothy presses a button on an intercom. It buzzes the other end, then 
BOOTHY (into the intercom) Sharon could we get some more coffee please. (to the others) Biscuits? (the others nod except Uri) And some biscuits. The usual. Actually if there are any chocolate digestives. 
SHARON OS (on the intercom) Certainly sir. 
65 | P a g e BOOTHY (into the intercom) Thanks Sharon. 
Boothy scratches his head, refocuses. Uri waits. 
4.100 INT. COUNTRY HOME ­ DAY 
Dressed like an accountant, Uri writes on his desktop. 
URI My desire to meet with you arises from a strong urge to inform you of the circumstances under which your husband actually passed away. The fact is, Mrs Pentane, that you have certainly been misinformed. 
Uri looks up, out of the window. He looks at his hands. They seem so ordinary, so dull, and so average. He drinks more JD. 
4.101 INT. BOARD ROOM, FACILITY - DAY 
Uri accepts the coffee Sharon pours for them all. She puts a plate of digestives down on the table and leaves the room. 
BOOTHY Thanks Sharon. 
Sharon smiles a response. She closes the door behind her. 
URI Mrs Pentane very good of you to see me like this. 
ELLE Come in Mister Tallow. 
She wants anything but this dull little man in her apartment. 
Uri enters. He wipes his feet excessively, over and over. 
She closes the door behind him. He looks around. 
68 | P a g e URI Lovely, just lovely. This is yours? Goodness. 
He goes to a piece of art hanging on the wall. A nude. 
URI It's amazing. Such talent. Me . . . 
He shrugs as if worthless. Elle tries to hold it together. 
ELLE Can I get you anything? 
URI No ­ really I'm fine. Thank you. 
He has trouble meeting her eyes. That unsettles her even more. 
URI Such platitudes! Here we are trapped inside a Terrence Rattigan three act . . . 
He laughs. It sounds unnatural. 
Wary of him in the extreme, he gestures to a seat reluctantly. 
She sits down opposite him. Her body language is pure defence. 
URI Mrs Pentane. A delicate subject of course. Your husband. 
She blinks. He can see the unimaginable depth of her grief. 
Uri gets some correspondence out of his briefcase. 
URI Good, old fashioned paper. Nothing like it. 
He waves the sheets of paper around. She can't even react. 
URI Firstly I'm so very sorry for your loss. I know the ministry has informed you that your husband ­ Mr Nicholas . . . 
She puts her hand across her slightly swollen belly. 
69 | P a g e She's pregnant. My God. Uri frowns slightly, struggles. 
URI Misses Pentane the fact is that . . . 
She looks at him with exhausted, beautiful eyes. 
URI The truth is Misses Pentane that . . . I'm here to tell you that . . . Well this may not be what you want to hear but . . . 
He looks at her, looks away. He can't meet her gaze. 
ELLE (get the fuck out) If you'd kindly hurry. Please. 
Her phone bleeps a message alert. An isolated sound. 
URI Misses Pentane I . . . 
He can't speak. Why did he come here? This is impossible. 
URI Misses Pentane . . . 
ELLE Oh for God sake! 
She gets up, stands, walks away from him. He stands. 
URI The fact is that your husband did not die in the manner in which you have been told he died. As I alluded in my letter, my email. . . 
She opens the door for him to leave. He wants to die. 
ELLE I can't do this now. I'm sorry. 
77 | P a g e (cont'd) an incident that killed a close colleague of hers and resulted in Shona being pensioned, invalided out of the army. In your opinion Chris, this - the PTSD - should have been crucial to the decision not to prosecute Shona for murder, a charge you now feel should have been reduced to what: manslaughter? She didn't seem like much of an invalid in the way she dealt with Rounds did she? So for you - was this a travesty of justice? Really? 
MARLOW VO My sense of it is, Christie, as I've said, and the reason I feel I failed, really, is that the state must find a way to take responsibility. 
The hoodie climbs over the back fence of a house. He then proceeds up the garden ­ again hugging the shadows for cover. 
FEMALE DJ VO But now you're considering retiring? With a future as QC certain. A Law Lord perhaps. You're regarded by many as a (laughs) legal wunderkind! 
MARLOW VO Well I don't know about that. But yes, I'm looking to move out of the legal profession now. 
FEMALE DJ VO Because of this case, specifically? As Queens Council you could help people like Shona. Lots of Shonas. 
MARLOW I know. But look. For me it's this: we send her out to Afghanistan. We tell her to kill people who resisted our invasion. (as the DJ starts to speak) But (more) 
78 | P a g e (cont'd) anyway ­ look: we make her an expert. A killing machine. And then war breaks our machine. So then our machine needs Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder drugs in order to function in normal life. To make a cup of tea, for God sake. (silence a beat, then) She's a broken child, Chrissie. We broke her. So then when she kills a known psychotic child molester and murderer in her home in the middle of the night ­ in her home - in self-defence ­ we, the state, we call that murder, and we throw her to the dogs. We screw her up in the name of a cause in some country some people - and lets' face it, in a part of the world not many British people know or give a damn about - and then we finish the job. We prosecute her for murder and lock her up. 
The hoodie chooses a ground floor window. He jemmies it open. 
FEMALE DJ VO But ultimately the only alternative is that we don't have a professional, a standing army. We rely on . . . 
MARLOW VO I understand. I understand that when you sign up, you take your chances. You become an organ of the state, and if that state tells you to kill people in its name, it chooses not to call that murder. It chooses then to call you a hero ­ especially if you die. 
FEMALE DJ VO So these young people, the soldiers who give their lives in the defence of our liberty (more) 
79 | P a g e (cont'd) don't deserve the label hero. Is that what you're saying? 
The hoodie climbs through the window he has jemmied open. 
MARLOW VO Nation states have always protected themselves from their own imperial absurdities. What would be left if there was no chance of glory? Why would anyone sign up? Look: in war, anywhere, people do what they can to survive. All I can say is that personally, I mean as Shona's brief, I failed to make the court see sense. For me, you know, it's like you can murder in the so called defence of the state but if you kill in the defence of yourself . . .You know it's like, I mean as Shakespeare said `if his cause be wrong, our obedience to the king wipes the crime of it out of us.' 
His voice dissolves and fades away as we 
CUT TO 
5.114 INT. SHONA'S HOME, BEDROOM ­ NIGHT 
SHONA (20s, black) is awoken by a sound ­ the dull clunk of something giving under strain. She lifts her head up, listens. 
Another clunk, but this followed by other sounds downstairs. 
Shona is quickly out of bed, standing. She moves in a way that suggests combat training: with controlled power and assurance. 
She is not afraid. 
5.115 INT. SHONA'S HOME, KITCHEN - NIGHT 
CALEB (20s, white) breaks in through the kitchen window. He's young and hooded. His thin face is haunted by addiction. 
Caleb climbs through the window he has just jemmied open. He stands in the kitchen a moment, listening. He hears nothing. 
80 | P a g e He starts to move quietly through the kitchen towards the 
5.116 INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Caleb enters. He looks around, sees the usual living room stuff: a settee, some ornaments, a TV and iPod and iPod dock; a shelf bearing a few ornaments ­ OK, but Caleb wants more. 
What Caleb doesn't seem to see are the mantelpiece photos of Corporal Shona smiling with her Para mates in Afghanistan. 
Caleb turns and heads towards the door. He goes out into the 
5.117 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Caleb emerges from the living room. 
CRACK 
A fist connects with his jaw, sending him staggering. 
CRACK, CRACK 
Another two blows ­ a fist and a kick. Caleb sprawls, and then manages to stand as Shona attacks him. She moves fast and with focus ­ a shape in the darkness moving very fast. Caleb lashes out with his right fist. He misses. She lands another two punches to his neck and face. He yells and lashes out again. This time he connects with the side of her head. She goes sprawling. He dives towards her and pounds her with his fists. 
CALEB What the fuck ­ easy-peasy, ho! 
She fights him: the focussed power of a trained soldier; but he's too strong and doesn't seem to feel blows that should be causing him a lot of pain. He PUNCHES her in the head twice. 
He looks at her, waits. She grimaces in controlled agony. 
CALEB Don't make me spell it out. You know why we in `ere `aving this. 
Losing it, he suddenly goes to her, grabs her and drags her to the settee. He throws her on it. The pain makes her wince. She muffles her scream with pride. She now knows he is psychotic. 
CALEB DON'T PLAY ME, BITCH. Where's your fuckin' gear. Everybody got gear round this green and pleasant land. 
He points his gun at her head. She shakes her head no. 
CALEB What the fuck. You the only bitch I picked in this whole postie with no gear? Fuck. Trust Caleb to pick a soldier. 
He glances at the photographs again, grins. 
CALEB You got that uniform still? I like a woman in uniform. 
She just looks at him through the fog of bloody agony. 
CALEB How come you so hot, babes? You leave the central heating on all night to keep you snuggles? Nothing like a man for that. 
84 | P a g e He removes his jacket, and then the hoodie he wears beneath it. She can see his prison tats and scars on his neck. She can see the injection marks on his dirty, skinny forearms. 
CALEB Hey ­ what you lookin' at? Look at me. At me eyes, ho. 
She won't meet his eyes. ON her eyes in ECU: 
The SOUNDS of war until 
CALEB I said look at me you fuckin' . . . 
He jabs the gun into her crotch, leans close to her. 
She looks him in the eyes. She sees everything that's wrong. 
CALEB You know what I am ­ huh? You know what I am, really? (leans close, looks deep into her eyes) I'm hungry. Starved. (stands up, moves towards the door) Wot you gonna give Caleb tweet ­ apart from laters? 
He grins, looks at her crotch and licks his lips. 
Her eyes are glass. She closes them to make it all go away. 
CALEB Hey ­   no: none of that. You stay front   and fucking centre. On the ball.   Keep your soldier eyes on me   no matter what. Hear me? 
She opens her eyes. The SOUNDS of war. Her war. Her hell. 
CALEB That's better, soldier soldier. Now don't be going for no walkies ­ `kay? 
Backing towards the door he looks and points his gun at her. 
CALEB Not a muscle, ho. You stay like a good doggie ­ period. 
85 | P a g e He doesn't trust her, but he's going to take a chance. 
He heads out of the room quickly and goes into the 
5.118 INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Caleb goes through cupboards - fast. 
CALEB Not a move, babes. I'm watching. (searches cupboards) Where you keep the cake, ho? Me and Victoria sponge, we're tight as a schoolgirl's twat. 
Going from cupboard to cupboard, he sees the usual food and crockery etc. In one cupboard he sees bottle of prescription pills: benzodiazepine, diazepam, and methylphenidate. 
CALEB (a low whistle) And I thought I was fucked up. What they do to you out there, babes? Turn you into a raghead? 
He grabs a bottle of benzodiazepine and goes back into the 
5.119 INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Reading the bottle label he doesn't notice that she has gone for a brief moment. But when he does, he throws the bottle aside and starts moving. He runs out of the room and heads 
5.120 INT. UPSTAIRS - NIGHT 
Caleb runs up the stairs onto the landing, his gun up. 
CALEB Hey ­ fuck, bitch. Hey! 
