Chuck looks at Lev with respect.  Right answer. 
CHUCK So how come the other drivers haven't left yet? 
The Translator asks Lev, who looks at him as if he is crazy, then snorts an answer.  The Translator blushes. 
TRANSLATOR He says -- he is a very rude fellow -- 
CHUCK Tell me exactly what he said. 
TRANSLATOR He says why don't his farts smell sweet? 
Chuck grins.  Lev shrugs and says something else. 
TRANSLATOR He says that's just the way it is. 
CHUCK Lev -- it's Lev, right?  Listen, this is FedEx.  We don't have to accept the way it is. 
EXT.  HOTEL - ST. PETERSBURG 
A weary Chuck enters the hotel.  In the sky above him we see the Northern Lights.  He doesn't even look up. 
INT.  HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT - LATER 
Chuck is watching CNN on the television, working his PowerBook, and holding the phone. 
CHUCK No, keep trying.  A circuit's bound to open up. 
He hangs up. 
CHUCK (to himself) Those damn Northern Lights. 
Just then the lights go off.  For a moment everything is darkness.  Then a small light switches on.  Chuck has a headlamp on. 
He gets up, heads into the bathroom.  We stay in the bedroom. After only a moment, the light reemerges.  It heads over to his bag.  We go with it. 
Chuck takes out a roll of toilet paper.  The guy is prepared for anything.  He goes into the bathroom, closes the door. 
The lights come back on just as the phone rings. 
We hear scuffling sounds on the other side of the door. Chuck charges out, holding up his pants. 
Grabs the phone. 
CHUCK Hello?  Great.  Try it. 
He waits.  We hear an ANSWERING MACHINE. 
KELLY (V.O.) This is Kelly, leave me a message and I'll call you back soon as I can. 
This is not what Chuck wanted to hear. 
CHUCK Kelly, damn, look, this is Chuck.  I'm going to be a little late.  Well, more than a little.  I had to go to Russia. Couldn't be helped.  Could you call and cancel the trip?  Look, we'll sail the Keys in March.  It's better then anyway. I'll be back before Christmas.  I promise.  I think.  I mean, I will.  I, uh -- 
He's stumbling over whether to say I love you. 
CHUCK I miss you. 
He gently hangs up the phone. 
INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG - SERIES OF SHOTS 
A surprised Yuri stands with the attractive assistant as Chuck takes his clipboard away. 
An even more surprised Lev stands by his truck as Chuck hands the clipboard to him. 
Chuck and the loaders clean off the graffiti. 
Working alongside the sorters as the packages come in, Chuck points out how to organize the inflow. 
Chuck and Lev go over large maps of St. Petersburg with the drivers. 
INT.  FEDEX WAREHOUSE - ST. PETERSBURG - WEEK LATER 
A big semi is being loaded with outgoing packages for the airport run.  Aleksei, Chuck, Lev and the office executives watch as containers are rolled on. 
LEV We've never got all the trucks in on time.  Never. 
Chucks looks at the clock. 
CHUCK Only one still left? 
LEV Route six. 
Aleksei points at the big semi. 
ALEKSEI If we don't send it now we may miss the connection in Paris. 
The pressure in on.  Chuck looks around at his team. 
CHUCK (to Aleksei) Give it five minutes. 
EXT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG - MINUTES LATER 
The last truck rolls in. 
INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG 
The last truck enters and loading dock.  A few loaders move toward it.  The executives all stand and watch.  But not Chuck.  He's hands on. 
CHUCK Let's go. 
He heads toward the truck and begins pulling off packages. All the other executives follow him. 
EXT.  CHARLES DE GAULLE AIRPORT - NIGHT 
The MD-11 takes off. 
INT.  MD-11 - NIGHT 
Chuck is focused on his PowerBook with the screen away from us, Stan is doing tai chi amidst the FedEx containers.  It feels a little surreal, all those containers surrounding them. 
Stan comes over, looks at the image on the computer.  It's a sailboat with some technical specifications under it. 
STAN I didn't know we had sailboats. 
CHUCK It's a ketch Kelly and I had chartered. 
STAN For all those vacation days you got coming. 
Chuck doesn't look up. 
CHUCK And never take. 
STAN Look, I'm sorry about your plane.  But I couldn't risk being late into Memphis. 
CHUCK Forget it. 
STAN You know General McLelland, he wouldn't attack unless he had everything just right.  Finally Abe Lincoln came to him and said, General, if you're not going to use my army, could I borrow it for a while?  So he gave it to Grant and Grant just said, let's go. 
CHUCK I'm from Arkansas.  Tell me a story with Robert E. Lee in it and maybe I'll pay attention. 
STAN We're warriors, not desk jockeys.  We've got to be bold.  You always want all your ducks lined up.  But nothing's 100 percent.  It's always 60-40, maybe 51-49. Hell, I'd take 40-60.  Then roll the dice. 
CHUCK That's why you're a gambling man. 
STAN That's why I'm running foreign and you're not.  That's why you're not married and I am. 
CHUCK For the third time. 
STAN Take the plunge, admit your mistakes, move on to tomorrow.  That's FedEx, that's women, that's life. 
Stan is so outrageous, Chuck can't help but laugh. 
CHUCK You are one sick fucker. 
STAN I'm trying to help you here.  There's Warsaw, there's this -- 
CHUCK This was nothing like Warsaw.  I held the truck then minutes, it's not that big a deal. 
But apparently it is. 
STAN Look, that kids' bike, that's a guy who'll do what it takes to get there on time.  Live up to your legend, that's all I'm saying. 
Chuck reaches in his pocket, pulls out a bill. 
CHUCK A hundred rubles St. Petersburg hits 95 percent in a month. 
STAN Ninety five percent?  Just give me the money now. 
CHUCK Talk is cheap.  Are we on or not? 
STAN We're on. 
Chuck closes the PowerBook. 
CHUCK Let's go off-line. 
They both take out their Valium -- the price they pay for being such road warriors. 
CHUCK Two Valium... 
Stan puts on his Walkman. 
STAN And the Stones.  Got to be. 
It's their ritual.  Chuck puts headphones from his Walkman over his ears, puts a mask over his eyes and leans his head back onto the headrest.  We hear the Rolling Stones. 
EXT.  MEMPHIS AIRPORT - NIGHT - WIDE 
The MD-11 arrives at its gate.  The cargo doors open. Forklifts and a gangway roll up to the side. 
INT.  MD-11 - NIGHT 
Stan stands smiling over Chuck. 
STAN Chuck.  Wake up Chuck. 
Chuck pulls off the mask, takes out the earplugs.  He manages a groggy grin. 
STAN You gotta do your own delivery from here. 
INT.  SUPERHUB - NIGHT 
Chuck walks through the extraordinary nexus of speeding packages that intersect in intricate paths above and around him.  This is the beating center of the FedEx world, the crossroads, the deep core where everything connects.  In his still-drugged state it all seems weirdly psychedelic.  A Christmas tree goes by, then a huge plastic Santa Claus, both with shipping labels. 
EXT.  CHICKASAW GARDENS - MEMPHIS - NIGHT 
Chuck's car pulls into the driveway of a small cottage in an older Memphis neighborhood.  The radio is playing the news. 
INT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER 
Chuck drops his briefcase and his bag.  The place is a jumble of clothes, papers, books, etc.  In the living room is a tank of tropical fish.  The water looks a little green.  No bubbles are coming from the filter. 
Uh oh. 
Chuck walks to the tank.  He tightens a piece of tape that holds the power cord onto the filter, taps the filter with his finger, once, twice...the bubbles start again. 
KELLY Come on. 
INT.  KELLY'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER 
A tiny cubicle with a door.  She closes it, takes some paper towels out of the desk, wipes his fingers. 
KELLY We're on the deck of the ketch, the air's soft, the water's clear as crystal... 
She licks the last bit of toner off his fingers. 
CHUCK That's carcinogenic. 
She ignores that, stays with the fantasy. 
KELLY We're covered with suntan lotion and sweat.  Our skin is so hot, it's glowing... 
And she comes closer to him. 
KELLY We could take a swim. 
She's really close now. 
CHUCK On the other hand we could not take a swim... 
They squiggle themselves onto the desk. 
INT.  LAB - NIGHT 
Someone kicks the door shut.  Now the figures are in silhouette, lit by the light in the office. 
And then the light goes out. 
EXT.  FEDEX OFFICES - NEXT MORNING 
A nondescript office park near the airport.  No sign. Chuck's car screeches into the parking lot.  He jumps out, glances at this watch, and heads for the building at a run. 
INT.  EXECUTIVE CONFERENCE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 
A large room dominated by an animated MAP OF THE WORLD. Lights at various locations blink and flash.  Above the map are a large Sign saying "Here Today, Gone Tomorrow" and two huge digital Clocks -- one keeping time, the other a countdown clock for that day's package sort at the SuperHub. 
The operations team of FedEx sits around a large table.  Each has on a headset.  BECCA TWIGG, the business-like senior vice president of Operations, addresses questions to a man -- COLIN PARKER-BOWLES, the European operations manager -- on a LARGE TV SCREEN in front of her.  "London" is superimposed on the screen. 
BECCA So why was Milan late, Colin? 
COLIN One of the race horses coming from Ireland got colic and had to be off- loaded in Brussels.  That put the Jumbo 15, six hours late into Charles De Gaulle.  Customs had difficulty locating the dutiable items... 
Colin continues as Chuck, out of breath, slips under the screen and heads for the one remaining vacant seat -- across from Stan.  Next to Stan is MAYNARD GRAHAM, an MBA systems man.  Becca addresses a question over to Stan. 
BECCA Stan, can we get P&A down to work with Milan customs? 
STAN We're already on it. 
BECCA Good.  And let's look at our live animal policy.  I don't think the income stream justifies delaying IP product, especially at Christmas. 
Colin disappears.  A red light goes on.  Becca pushes a button.  Another face comes on the screen.  "Oakland" appears under the face. 
BECCA Stand by, Benson, we're still wrapping up foreign. 
She turns pointedly to Chuck. 
BECCA Chuck, thanks for joining us.  Status? 
Chuck swallows nervously, tries to talk matter-of-factly. 
CHUCK Becca, as you know St. Petersburg was consistently running late by six to ten hours -- sometimes a full day or more.  I replaced the station manager.  We identified inefficiencies and worked out a quality improvement plan I believe can be met. 
MAYNARD You replaced the station manager with a driver.  A local with no knowledge of our systems. 
BECCA Shouldn't you have brought in someone from Memphis?  Russia is priority one. 
MAYNARD James Pottinger is available. 
The process is being ripped out of Chuck's hands.  He struggles to get an answer. 
STAN He's a numbers cruncher.  Chuck's done all the right things here... 
Stan is doing his best to back up Chuck. 
CHUCK Jim's a terrific financial man, no question.  But we can't always parachute in from Memphis.  We've got to build up our local staff. 
MAYNARD We've got to improve foreign on-time, that's what we've got to do.  If this new guy's so good, how come the very first plane he sent missed the connection in Paris? 
Maynard knows how to go for the jugular.  Everyone looks at Chuck. 
CHUCK We're building a new team here.  We got every package on the truck for the first time ever.  Success is the best teacher. 
MAYNARD I don't call missing the plane a success. 
Everyone looks at Chuck. 
EXT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - DAY - LATE THAT AFTERNOON 
Chuck lugs a big package up to the door, knocks on it.  Kelly opens the door. 
KELLY Merry Christmas eve. 
CHUCK Not if you work for FedEx. 
INT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - DAY 
Chuck enters as they keep talking.  Her house is cozy but also where she works.  There's a computer, specimen jars, and some terrariums with frogs inside.  A Christmas tree with packages under it. 
KELLY You break four million packages last night? 
INT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - MINUTES LATER 
Chuck enters.  The tree and the presents under it are gone. 
CHUCK Kelly?  Kelly? 
No answer, nothing but the sound of Jango, who begins yelping in the kitchen. 
INT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER 
Chuck picks up Jango, who is barricaded in the kitchen with some food, some water, and some wet newspapers. 
CHUCK There.  There.  Easy now. 
EXT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - BACK YARD - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER 
Holding Jango, Chuck walks out into the back yard. 
CHUCK Kelly? 
A fire still smolders.  The packages have burned.  The tree is a blackened mess. 
Chuck stares at it. 
EXT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - NEXT MORNING 
Chuck gets into his car, puts Jango on the front seat next to him.  Pulls out of the driveway. 
EXT.  ARKANSAS HIGHWAY - DAY 
Chuck is in his car, with the dog on his lap. 
EXT.  FARM HOUSE - DAY 
Chuck's car drives up to a typical Arkansas farm house.  His MOM is setting some Christmas tree lights around the door. Chuck gets out of the car.  There's a large wet spot on the front of his pants. 
MOM What happened to your pants? 
CHUCK Mom, meet Jango. 
Chuck displays the puppy. 
EXT.  FARM HOUSE - SHED - DAY 
Chuck works on an old tractor in the shed.  Some small legs appear in his vision, then a small face.  This is AMANDA, his niece. 
AMANDA Dinner's ready. 
INT.  FARM HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 
Around the table are Chuck's brother ROGER, his wife MARY, Amanda, and her TWO BROTHERS.  Mom brings in the turkey, places it on the table, sits down.  They all hold hands and bow their heads. 
MOM Chuck? 
Chuck hesitates just a moment. 
CHUCK Bless us O Lord, and these thy gifts, which we are about to receive, from thou bounty, through Christ the Lord.  Amen. 
ROGER Let's eat. 
EXT.  FARM HOUSE - LATER THAT DAY 
The children burst out the door, shrieking, chased by Jango. 
INT.  FARM HOUSE - DAY 
The grown-ups are cleaning up after Christmas dinner.  The scene moves between the table, the kitchen counter, and the refrigerator.  It's an old-fashioned kitchen, simply furnished. 
MARY How's Kelly? 
CHUCK Great. 
ROGER Thought you were going to bring her. 
CHUCK So did I. 
MOM It seemed like she had such a good time last time. 
CHUCK It's nothing you did, Mom, believe me. 
MARY Jennifer's still down at the post office. And she's still got that crush on you. 
ROGER And she's still got those -- 
MARY Roger. 
ROGER You should have stuck around. 
This is an old, sore subject. 
CHUCK Look, I help take care of the place.  You got my check, didn't you Mom? 
MOM That new roof, that's your doing. 
ROGER You're just allergic to farming, that's what dad said.  Can't stand to be alone. Can't stand to be in one place.  Can't stand the sight of...blood. 
He drops the turkey giblets into the trash. 
MARY Roger's going to put chickens in here. 
Chuck can't believe this. 
CHUCK Come on Roger, this is dad all over again.  You already did beefalo, chinchillas, and what was that, ostrich? They chased Mom around the yard, sprained her hip. 
The moon has just begun to rise, casting eerie light into the jungle.  The shadows reach out to grab Chuck, then real branches and vines tug at him.  He heads into thick blackness. 
EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT - LATER 
Chuck emerges around the rocks.  He reaches the stack of familiar FedEx boxes -- Ahh, home!  He's breathing hard, from both fear and exertion. 
CHUCK Got to drink.  Got to drink something. 
With his last strength he opens a coconut on the stick.  He bangs hard on the shell and gulps down the milk.  He stares at the stack of FedEx boxes.  What could be inside?  He reaches out and touches one. 
CHUCK They don't belong to you. 
Responsibility gets the better of necessity, and he takes his hand away. 
EXT.  BEACH - MORNING 
Face red from the sun, Chuck hacks at a palm frond with his stone knife.  He saws the palm frond off near the base, leaving it about a foot long. 
CHUCK Got to have shade.  Got to have a hat. 
He ties the loose fibers into a sort of circle, then sets it upon his head.  It looks amazingly like some sort of primitive cap. 
He grabs a couple of FedEx boxes and heads for the beach. 
EXT.  BEACH - LATER 
Chuck finishes the P on H E L P, which he has spelled out with the FedEx boxes on the beach. 
EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY - LATER 
Chuck scrambles down a ravine.  He kneels down and feels the ground.  It is dry, completely dry. 
EXT.  LAVA SLOPE - DAY 
Chuck traverses the slope, determined to find water. 
A FLAT ROCK - LATER 
With a puddle of dirty water trapped in a tiny hollow. Suddenly Chuck flops down into frame.  He tries to scoop up some water in his hands, but he just splashes it around.  He licks his fingers.  Then he gets down on his stomach and laps up the water with his tongue.  Like an animal. 
In the bottom of the small depression is some fine mud.  He rubs it on his reddened face and across his burned lips. 
CHUCK Oh, God.  Thank you. 
EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT 
Chuck lies in darkness, his eyes reflecting the moon. 
EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY 
Chuck is drenched in sweat.  He is at the bottom of a hole six feet deep.  He takes one last dig with the flat stick, then licks the moist clay that sticks to it. 
EXT.  BEACH - DAY 
Chuck breaks open another coconut and gulps down the milky liquid.  With a stone knife he digs in the shell for some of the meat, but it's dry and chewy and fibrous.  He spits it out, then lies back on the sand and stares at the first stars.  Half sings to himself. 
CHUCK You deserve a break today... 
He is desperately thirsty.  Hunger gnaws at him. 
EXT.  BEACH - DAY - LATER 
Holding a sharpened stick, Chuck wades in the shallows at low tide, looking for fish.  It's difficult to keep his balance. Suddenly a shadow flashes by, glinting in the morning sunlight.  Chuck hurls the spear, which ricochets off the water and floats away. 
Chuck plunges into the water after the fish with his bare hands.  The fish reverses direction.  Chuck leaps after it and goes under.  He comes up spluttering, on his hands and knees in the shallows. 
Suddenly a whole school of fish swims by him, moving in unison, like one creature, splitting around Chuck like mercury.  He grabs at them desperately.  Nothing. 
CHUCK Damn fish! 
On some rocks he sees clusters of limpets.  He takes a rock and tries to dislodge one, but it smashes into a soggy mess. 
EXT.  BEACH - DAY 
Discouraged, he sits down on the beach and gets his breath. 
Idly, Chuck takes out his wallet.  The money is soaked.  He lays it out to dry.  He finds a PHOTOGRAPH OF KELLY, soaked and mushy. 
He tries to smooth it out.  For a moment he is overcome.  His face tightens, his eyes get moist.  He stares out to sea. 
CHUCK Wait a minute.  Wait just a minute. 
He picks up his wallet again and takes out a credit card. 
EXT.  BEACH - MINUTES LATER 
Chuck wades in the water, stops by a rock covered with limpets.  He uses a CREDIT CARD to scrape off a limpet. 
CHUCK Don't leave home without it. 
With his finger, he prods around in the mucous-like meat, then tilts up the shell and we see the gooey gray stuff slide off the shell into his mouth. 
CHUCK Yuck. 
He starts to spit it out.  Tries to make himself like it. 
CHUCK Yumm. 
And he swallow it. 
EXT.  BEACH - SUNSET 
Chuck sits in the shade of a palm tree surrounded by a pile of smashed coconut husks and a stack of limpet shells.  He checks his watch for a moment. 
CHUCK Okay.  Okay now. 
EXT.  PALM GROVE - LATER 
Hands bandaged, Chuck tries to strike a spark on the roller blade wheel housing.  Tries over and over.  Nothing. 
He takes a long drink from his canteen, and flinches.  His tooth is starting to hurt.  He fishes some Tylenol out of the surgeon's bag and takes two. 
EXT.  OTHER SIDE OF ISLAND - DAY 
Chuck picks some berries and gingerly tries them.  They're not bad.  He eats more.  Then more.  What a relief. 
EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT 
Chuck lies on his palm fronds, groaning and holding his stomach.  He drags himself to his knees, crawls a few feet, and throws up in great, violent heaves. 
EXT.  BEACH - DAY 
Still looking a little green, Chuck marks another day on his tree calendar. 
EXT.  SUMMIT 
He stares out to sea.  Nothing. 
EXT.  WELL - DAY 
Chuck lies on his belly and drinks from the well, which has filled with water.  Then he washes his face and splashes water over his neck.  The surface of the well stills, bringing CHUCK'S REFLECTION into focus.  He stares at himself. 
Very carefully Chuck shaves with the surgeon's scalpel. 
Chuck checks out his new appearance in the water.  Much better.  A clean start now. 
EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT DAY 
He sits in front of his failed efforts to make fire. 
CHUCK You're not getting it hot enough.  Got to hold the heat.  Got to hold the heat. 
EXT.  BEACH - LATER 
Chuck carefully shaves some tinder.  Puts it under a piece of bamboo split lengthwise with a notch cut across it. 
EXT.  BEACH - LATER 
Chuck uses a bamboo stick to try to make friction in the split half of the bamboo.  He saws back and forth with all his might, pressing it down in the groove. 
EXT.  BEACH - LATER 
Chuck gives one last saw with his bamboo and stops, utterly defeated.  It's all too much. 
CHUCK Sonofabitch! 
He starts to rub again.  He breathes hard, sweat pours off his face.  He is really going for it, what the hell!  A tiny wisp of smoke appears!  Chuck saws with even more energy. 
CHUCK Come on.  Come on. 
The smoke increases.  Chuck rips away the bamboo, grabs the nest of shavings, and blows on it frantically.  The smoke flickers and dies.  Chuck can't believe it. 
CHUCK No.  No.  No. 
EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT 
Chuck lies in his bed of palm fronds, shivering.  He looks up at the stars, which blaze furiously. 
CHUCK That's the big dipper...Orion...or is that the Southern Cross...?  Kelly would know. 
And he misses her so much.  A shower of meteors streaks across the sky, as if the very heavens are raining down on Chuck. 
EXT.  BEACH - DAY 
Chuck readies his two sticks of bamboo again and begins sawing with tremendous energy.  He smells something.  Is it smoke?  He pulls off the log and looks eagerly at the nest of tinder.  There's nothing there. 
CHUCK Dammit! 
He replaces the log and starts wearily to saw again. 
TIME CUT 
The sun has moved in the sky.  Chuck is still sawing.  Again the smoke appears.  Again sweat pours from his face.  The smoke increases.  He saws even harder.  His breath comes in anguished gulps.  Smoke is curling up now.  Chuck tears away the bamboo, picks up the nest of kindling, and blows on it gently.  The smoke increases. 
He blows some more.  A fragile crimson spark appears. 
CHUCK Careful now, careful... 
He gently places the nest of shavings in the kindling, then blows on it with utmost care, as if he were holding life itself.  He shreds his money and business cards over the tiny flame. 
Suddenly, the evening breeze lifts the nest out of the kindling.  Desperate, Chuck grabs it.  Trying to shield it with his body, he grabs some palm fronds and jams them into the sand, trying to make a windbreak.  They rustle and shake and blow over. 
The wind blows harder.  Chuck jams some rocks in a circle to make an eddy.  But the fire is out.  No words now, just a loud, primal groan of pure despair. 
And then, into his vision floats...smoke. 
Chuck looks down.  A wisp of smoke curls up from the nest of tinder!  Chuck blows on it gently.  Suddenly a tiny tongue of flame flickers and catches on the kindling! 
CHUCK Yes!  Yes!  Yes! 
He feeds in some more twigs, more tinder.  The flames lick out, catch, grow. 
CHUCK If I ever forgot to thank you God, and I am sure I did, thank you now. 
EXT.  BEACH - WIDE - NIGHT 
The fire burns on the beach.  Chuck rushes about, piling on driftwood. 
EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT 
Chuck stands by the edge of the water, which shimmers in the reflected light of the fire.  A wave come in, licks at his toes.  Lifts up a coconut husk, sweeps it gently out.  Chuck watches, gets an idea. 
EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT 
He begins to dig in the sand by the raft.  He grabs the oar and digs faster, making a trench up to where the raft is. 
EXT.  BEACH - MORNING 
The rising tide floods water into the trench.  Chuck rocks the raft back and forth.  It floats!  As the wave recedes, it takes the raft with it.  Chuck has to run beside it. 
CHUCK TRYING TO ESCAPE - MONTAGE 
Over and over, we see Chuck capsize at the reef.  The first time he has a bandage on his leg.  He tries everything -- different rafts, different approaches, but each time the ocean spits him back. 
EXT.  LAGOON - DAY 
Defeated and utterly exhausted, Chuck swims back from his latest failure.  He wades back ashore with the FedEx box and throws it on the ground by the palm tree.  He has tried so hard to escape, so incredibly hard, done everything humanly possible and beyond.  He rips off his life preserver, throws it into the underbrush, then collapses on the beach. 
CHUCK You're too low in the water.  Too damn low. 
Chuck's shoulders begin to shake, as he is racked with deep sobs of despair. 
And then he throws his head back and lets forth, from deep inside himself, a SCREAM of rage and anger and pain.  The Scream pierces the indifferent natural sounds of the island, the rustling of the breeze, the lulling rhythm of the waves. It is powerful, disturbing, primal. 
The breeze picks up.  Behind Chuck, the palm trees begin to sway.  The tide is reaching up toward the beach.  The waves crash louder.  The palm trees sway even more. 
Chuck picks up some wet sand and rubs it on his body. 
CHUCK Dust thou art -- that's for damned sure -- and unto dust shalt thou return. 
A few DROPS OF RAIN begin to fall, splashing on Chuck and sizzling in the fire. 
Chuck looks up:  clouds have obscured the sun.  The wind blows harder.  The rain falls harder, streaking the sand Chuck had rubbed on his body.  STEAM sizzles out of the fire. 
Chuck looks up, disbelieving.  The bottom falls out of the heavens -- monsoon rain, more rain than you have ever seen before.  A long wave rolls up, its frothy fingers reaching for the fire. 
Forget the raft!  Forget despair!  The fire could go out! This is disaster! 
CHUCK Shit! 
He springs into action.  Chuck grabs an empty FedEx box. With his wooden shovel he frantically SCOOPS SOME COALS out of the fire as the rain HISSES and POUNDS at them.  He slides the coals into the FedEx box, grabs some sticks of driftwood and sets off on a run. 
EXT.  WOODS - DAY 
Chuck runs through the woods, slipping and stumbling.  Vines grab at him.  The rain is so thick he can hardly see. 
EXT.  WOODS - MINUTES LATER 
Chuck bursts out of the woods into the lava field.  Smoke pours out of the FedEx box.  The coals are about to burn through! 
EXT.  LAVA FIELD - MOMENTS LATER 
Chuck stumbles up the slippery rocks, dragging the smoking box.  His face is drenched, desperate. 
EXT.  CAVE - DAY - MINUTES LATER 
Chuck tumbles into the cave just as the coals burn through the FedEx box. 
Using the remains of the box, he desperately tries to scoot the coals into a dry spot. 
One by one, THE PRECIOUS COALS GO OUT. 
Dripping water off his hands and face, he pushes a few together with his fingers, ignoring the burns. 
CHUCK Please...please...please... 
He stomps on the driftwood and saws at it with his knife.  He places this kindling on the coals.  They sputter and sizzle. Barely catch.  He fans them with the box.  A tiny flicker catches, then starts to grow. 
CHUCK Firewood.  I need firewood. 
SERIES OF SHOTS 
On the beach, Chuck desperately gathers more firewood in the driving monsoon.  He can barely see.  Driven by the storm, the waves are licking at the palm grove. 
He runs through the woods.  Branches whip at his face.  Roots tear at his feet, tripping him. 
He stumbles up the lava field.  Sliding.  Struggling.  Barely able to breathe, the rain is so strong. 
INT.  CAVE - DAY 
He dumps the firewood on the floor of the cave.  But where the fire had flickered, there is only a pile of wet black ashes. 
THE FIRE IS OUT. 
INT.  CAVE - NIGHT 
Chuck lies on the floor of the cave, shivering in the darkness as the rain falls.  His fire is out, his tooth is killing him, he can't escape. 
EXT.  CAVE - NEXT DAY 
Chuck emerges from the cave.  The rain has stopped.  This is the absolute lowest.  His face reflects his pain and despair. He's trapped.  It's hopeless.  Everything he tried to build is gone. 
EXT.  LEDGE - DAY 
Chuck slowly walks out on the ledge.  He stares down at the waves breaking on the jagged rocks far below. 
He lets go one hand.  Then lets go the other.  He is barely balanced.  It looks like a wisp of breeze would blow him right off.  He slides one foot to the very lip of the precipice. 
Suddenly his foot slips! 
Instinctively he turns into the cliff, grabs for a hold!  One hand reaches for a nubbing of rock, slips off!  The other closes, his fingers straining to hold him. 
He ties the string tightly around the shaft.  He does his work automatically. 
INT.  CAVE - NIGHT - LATER 
Chuck eats some fish and some mashed breadfruit.  He chews each bite, his eyes in distant focus.  The firelight flickers on his face. 
EXT.  CLIFF - SUNRISE 
Chuck carries firewood up to the summit.  He mechanically adds wood to the fire.  As he does so, something out to sea catches his eye.  He stops and stands up. 
CHUCK'S POV - WHALES 
WHALES broach out past the rocky point.  Spouts of water shoot into the air. 
ON CHUCK 
As he watches them, a light comes back into his eyes.  He grins.  There's a big gap where his teeth had been.  He turns and strides down the hill. 
EXT.  CLIFF - MOMENTS LATER 
He heads across the rock bridge that once had so terrified him, without losing stride.  It's second nature now. 
INT.  CAVE - MOMENTS LATER 
Chuck enters the cave, picks up the ball and heads out. 
EXT.  SUMMIT - EVENING 
The signal fire burns.  A spectacular cloudy sunset lights up the sky.  Chuck sits with Wilson on the summit, a bowl of mashed breadfruit in one hand, a bowl of roasted eel skin in another. 
As Chuck watches the sunset unfold, watches the whales going by in the darkened water, he takes some roasted eel chips, dips them into the breadfruit paste, and offers one to Wilson.  His voice is flat, monotonal. 
CHUCK Chips?  Dip? 
But Wilson declines. 
CHUCK No? 
He takes a big crunchy bite. 
CHUCK Another fucking day in paradise. 
PULL BACK as the sun goes down and Chuck reaches into the bowl again and dips an eel skin chip in the dip. 
EXT.  ROCKY LEDGE - NIGHT - LATER 
Torch in one hand, Wilson in the other, Chuck walks across the rocky ledge.  He passes the flume without even noticing. 
Suddenly his shoe breaks!  It's sandal made of woven yucca leaves. 
He bends down and fixes it, then heads on down the ledge. 
EXT.  LEDGE - MOMENTS LATER 
Chuck makes a casual leap, a leap he has made hundreds of times, but this time the sandal comes loose.  It catches on a rock, and CHUCK FALLS! 
His hands are cut and bruised.  He tries to get up, can't. Chuck sits back and examines his foot.  His fingers come back covered with blood.  He reaches out to steady himself, and leaves a HANDPRINT OF BLOOD on the rock. 
INT.  CAVE - LATER 
Chuck wraps his foot in bandages. 
INT.  CAVE - LATER 
Chuck's face is sweaty.  He looks down at his foot.  It is red, swollen, infected.  He stands up, tries to put some weight on it.  The pain is intense. 
Chuck sticks the scalpel onto some coals to sterilize it.  He holds it over his foot, takes a breath, then jabs in into the wound.  The pain is intense.  Chuck passes out. 
INT.  CAVE - NIGHT 
Chuck stirs, takes a drink, weakly tosses on another log, and collapses back on the floor. 
INT.  CAVE - DAY 
Chuck wakes up, trembling, shaking, wet with sweat.  He staggers up.  His shadow sways on the wall of the cave.  He struggles to get another log on the fire.  He squints at his only companion, the soccer ball. 
CHUCK Help me, Wilson... 
He collapses again. 
INT.  CAVE - NIGHT 
Chuck stirs and squints his eyes.  He takes a drink of water. He is feeling better.  He puts another log on the fire and slowly begins to chew on some breadfruit and dried fish. 
EXT.  BEACH - LATER 
Chuck slowly wades into the water, favoring his injured foot. But something feels different.  He glances around.  What is it?  And then he sees something, perhaps the worst possible sight. 
CHUCK'S POV - SAIL 
A SAIL is moving steadily away from the island. 
CHUCK 
Throws down the spear and waves his arms. 
CHUCK No!  Wait!  Come back! 
He runs into the water and starts to swim.  He is so weak, however, he can only make a few strokes.  He tries to yell as he swims... 
CHUCK Wait!  Wait! 
Choking and weak, he turns back and drags himself up on the beach.  In the b.g., the sail dwindles into the distance. 
Chuck goes from tree to tree, making handprints along his path.  Chuck was here.  This is his mark. 
EXT.  PALM GROVE - DAY 
He covers the calendar trees with handprints.  Then stops. Sees something.  Eyes fixed on the beach, he walks toward the shoreline. 
EXT.  BEACH - DAY 
Chuck emerges from the palm trees, and now we see what he had seen. 
A FIFTY-FIVE GALLON OIL DRUM. 
And another one.  TWO.  Chuck stares at the barrels. 
CHUCK Hello. 
EXT.  BEACH - LATER 
Chuck sits staring at the oil drums.  It's almost as if he is hesitating to take advantage of them.  That he may not want, really, to leave now. 
Then his inner struggle ends. 
CHUCK What the hell are you waiting for? 
EXT.  BEACH - LATER 
Filled with determination, Chuck rolls a barrel up the beach. 
EXT.  BEACH - LATER 
Using a palm tree as a fulcrum, Chuck hauls hard on a rope made of vines, pulling the barrel up off the beach. 
EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY 
Chuck throws aside palm leaves, revealing...the remains of his raft. 
INT.  CAVE - NIGHT 
Chuck is drawing with a purpose now.  And we see what he is working on.  The plans for a raft. 
INT.  CAVE - NIGHT 
Chuck is making a list of what he needs.  He works intently. 
CHUCK Canteens.  Sea anchor.  Got to weave rope.  Spears.  A sail. 
EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY 
Chuck lashes the barrels onto the raft.  Checks the knots. Lashes more rope. 
INT.  CAVE - NIGHT 
He sews dresses together with handmade fiber string. 
INT.  CAVE - NIGHT 
He weaves videotape together to form a sea anchor. 
EXT.  BEACH - DAY 
Chuck digs a channel toward the raft. 
INT.  CAVE - DAY 
Chuck constructs a water collection device with some FedEx boxes, some plastic weighted with a stone.  Explains it to Wilson. 
CHUCK Now I'm hoping that if this is airtight I'll get condensation down here, a cup or so a day.  If I'm careful it should be enough. 
INT.  CAVE - NIGHT 
Chuck writes on the wall. 
CHUCK If I never return, know that here lived Chuck Noland for four years.  I drew these paintings.  I made these marks. And then I took my fate in my own hands and set forth to save myself, God willing. 
EXT.  BEACH - DAY 
Chuck loads the raft, which rocks gently in the cove.  He has a sail made of designer dresses sewn together with fiber thread.  A sea anchor secured by videotape woven together into a rope.  Plastic bottles filled with water.  A signal kite made of FedEx paper. 
Then comes the FedEx box with the angel wings.  Then Wilson. 
CHUCK Wilson, my main man.  Time to go. 
And he gently leads the raft into the lagoon. 
CHUCK Wonder what odds Stan would give me on this.  I'd say 90-10.  Against. 
He jumps onto the raft, begins to paddle out toward where the surf crashes onto the reef. 
EXT.  LAGOON - DAY 
Waves break against the reef.  With his paddles Chuck maneuvers the raft toward the cut in the reef.  Boom!  The wave crashes, the water surges through the cut, then recedes with a whoosh. 
Chuck watches, times the waves, paddles like mad.  He's committed.  SCRAPE goes the first barrel, then the second, riding the receding wave.  He's out! 
But the next wave is already surging forward.  It smashes the raft against the reef!  Coconuts and foodstuffs hurtle off the raft! 
The barrels cushion the impact.  The raft tilts, spins, but stays outside the reef!  The ropes holding the jugs of water break!  The water sweeps overboard! 
The wave recedes again.  Chuck recovers, paddles with all his strength, and then he's clear of the breakers! 
For a long moment he floats on the rollers, getting his breath. 
The water jugs float away, carried by the waves back into the lagoon.  Chuck could go back and get them.  If he were being prudent, he definitely would. 
BADCHUCK No. 
GOODCHUCK Take it, damn it. 
BADCHUCK No. 
GOODCHUCK Wilson, do you believe this?  Take the damn water. 
Slowly Chuck gets up, lifts up the water jar, and takes a swallow.  Then another. 
GOODCHUCK Stop.  Enough. 
Then another. 
EXT.  RAFT - DAY - LATER 
Chuck works to braid a new rope.  He is focused, concentrating as hard as he can, but everything is slow and hard and he's weak and clumsy.  He tests the rope, but it doesn't hold. 
GOODCHUCK Think.  Got to use something else. 
He gets an idea, starts to pull the signal kite in. 
BADCHUCK If they can't see you, what's the point? 
GOODCHUCK Survive today, that's the point. 
The kite rope is much thinner than the rope he had used to tie the logs, but it's all he has.  He ties the log with the kite rope.  Exhausted, he lies back down. 
EXT.  RAFT - NIGHT 
The moon is full.  The waves cast off shadows on the ocean. Chuck is staring into the sky, trying to find a star to navigate by. 
GOODCHUCK Polaris, where are you?  Maybe I'm too far south. 
BADCHUCK You don't know where you are.  You missed the shipping lanes. 
GOODCHUCK Moon's too bright. 
We hear the fraying sound again. 
EXT.  RAFT - DAY 
Chuck saws at the outer log with his stone knife.  Across the water comes a storm.  We can see it like a waterfall moving toward us. 
BADCHUCK You're putting off the inevitable. 
GOODCHUCK I'm putting it off. 
He looks at the deteriorating rope, at the rotting sail. 
BADCHUCK That's what's happening to you. 
Chuck pushes the outer log away, then takes the loose rope and begins to lash it around the center logs. 
BADCHUCK You're rotting away. 
The raft is rocking.  The waves are stronger.  It's hard to tie the logs together. 
Rain falls like a sheet on Chuck. 
BADCHUCK Get water! 
GOODCHUCK Fix raft first. 
BADCHUCK Water water water -- 
Chuck works frantically in the rain, trying to tie the rope. Finally he does. 
Then he scrambles for his water collecting funnel, struggles to pull it up.  One corner is stuck and collapses. Desperately he rights it, pulls the funnel up. 
Drops begin to run down the sides and collect in the jar. Soaked, Chuck stares at the water as it rises. 
Then the rain stops. 
We see the line of rain recede away from Chuck, spattering the ocean.  But all around him the ocean is calm again. 
And out comes the sun. 
EXT.  OCEAN - DAY 
The raft floats on quiet seas.  The sky is blue, with few high cirrus clouds so motionless they seem pasted on. 
Chuck lies on the raft, sick and weak. 
Suddenly, from the depths beside him, silently rises a huge shape. 
A SPERM WHALE, still mainly submerged.  The blow hole is near Chuck, wet and pulsing like giant lips.  The eye of the whale is only a few feet away.  It looks upon Chuck out of an intelligence deep and alien. 
He slowly comes to his knees and stares at it. 
The blow hole opens and WHOOSH, out shoots a geyser of fine spray which settles on Chuck in a mist. 
The whale rises farther, dwarfing the raft.  From the whale comes a deep sound like a foghorn. 
Startled, Chuck jumps back, rocking the raft.  He catches himself, slowly reaches out and touches the whale. 
The whale blows again, drenching Chuck in more spray. 
Chuck touches the whale again. 
GOODCHUCK You like that? 
Very slowly it drifts along with the raft. 
He pulls himself back on the raft. 
He lies there exhausted, the glow from the phosphorescence casting a greenish light on his face. 
EXT.  OCEAN - DAY 
Clouds are building up.  In the distance lightning flashes. The clouds come closer. 
Little bits of electricity jump off the mast.  Saint Elmos fire jumps around Chuck's hand. 
Fascinated, he holds out his hand.  The fire jumps from his hand to the mast. 
Suddenly lightning shoots from the sky and strikes the ocean! A huge spout of water explodes like a depth charge.  The CRACK is intense, then rolls away. 
Chuck stares, then realizes the danger and throws himself down on the raft.  Suddenly a wall of rain sweeps over him and the ocean begins to roll.  The thunder is deafening. Lightning flashes bursts through the rain. 
CHUCK Sea anchor!  Let out the sea anchor! 
Frantic, Chuck lets out the sea anchor as the raft scuds down a huge wave.  The anchor catches, slowing the raft so that it rides the wave down. 
The waves come at him high as houses.  The raft rides up one side, then plunges down the next. 
All Chuck can do is hold on. 
EXT.  OCEAN - DAY 
The storm has passed.  The raft floats on big dark rollers. 
We hear the chirping and squeaking of dolphins.  They come close to the raft.  Chuck watches them play.  Then realizes they are chasing his fish.  They drive them along, into the path of another dolphin, who darts in and rips into the dorado, turning the water around the raft into churning, bloody foam. 
CHUCK Stop! 
He takes his oar and begins beating the water.  The killing continues. 
CHUCK You fucking murderers! 
Suddenly the water is still.  One dolphin sticks its head out of the water and stares at Chuck, squeaking. 
Another dolphin lifts its head up, then another.  They squeak to each other, clearly communicating and talking about Chuck. 
CHUCK I know you're talking about me! 
He splashes the water with his oar. 
They dive, then jump into the air, squeaking as they go. 
CHUCK (very softly) Take me with you. 
They're gone. 
CHUCK Why me?  Why me, God? 
He begins to laugh. 
BADCHUCK Listen to this, Wilson. (deep voice: God) Because you piss me off. 
EXT.  OCEAN - DAY 
Chuck tries to stretch with some simple yoga.  Each movement takes forever. 
He rolls over onto his stomach and tries to do a pushup.  He can't.  Collapses onto the raft. 
BADCHUCK You're falling apart. 
Tries to do another pushup.  Can't. 
BADCHUCK First you eat your fat, then you eat your muscle. 
He rolls over. 
BADCHUCK Then you eat your mind. 
He looks at the ocean.  They're in a line of garbage, a thick slick of debris dumped off of ships. 
GOODCHUCK Roll on you deep and dark blue ocean roll. 
He closes his eyes.  After a minute they come open. 
GOODCHUCK I'm late, I'm late, for a very important date. 
They slowly close again. 
BADCHUCK I'm lost.  Goodbye. 
GOODCHUCK No! 
His eyes come open again. 
BADCHUCK Look, just slip off the raft.  The ocean would feel so good, the water's so soft and warm.  Take a little swim.  Sleep. 
GOODCHUCK You quitter you quitter you quitter. 
BADCHUCK The sea is lovely, dark and deep. 
GOODCHUCK But I have promises to keep. (rolls over) And miles to go before I sleep. (props himself up) And miles to go before I sleep. (purpose now) Got to fix the sea anchor.  Use the sail. 
BADCHUCK Use the sail for a sea anchor and you won't move. 
GOODCHUCK If I don't have a sea anchor I'll capsize. 
BADCHUCK Die tomorrow or die today. 
He hums Beethoven's fifth.  BA BA BA BUM. 
If the Dorado was a gift from God, this is a message from Hell. 
Then the shark is gone. 
EXT.  RAFT - DAY - MOMENTS LATER 
Chuck lies back on the raft.  He is humming. 
BADCHUCK What are you smiling about?  They'll be back. 
GOODCHUCK I'm dancing on the roof of the Peabody Hotel.  With Kelly. 
He smiles at the thought. 
GOODCHUCK The music ends.  We go back to the table. The waiters have brought dinner.  New York Strip with Bordelaise Sauce. Mushrooms in brown gravy.  Roasted potatoes with garlic and rosemary.  Green Beans with almonds.  Fresh biscuits and cornbread, dripping with butter.  A nice salad with ranch dressing.  A jumbo shrimp cocktail. 
Thinks about that, it spoils the picture. 
GOODCHUCK No shrimp. (then) We eat. 
He closes his eyes.  This is the greatest fantasy. 
GOODCHUCK (as the waiter) For dessert, we have pecan pie a la mode, we have a double chocolate cake with creme anglaise, we have a nice pear torte, fresh key lime pie, or perhaps if you care to wait a few minutes, a grand marnier souffle? 
Chuck thinks over the options, thinking of each one. 
GOODCHUCK Why, bring them all, bring them all. 
He rolls over.  There, square in his vision, is a ship, its form coming in and out of a low haze. 
Chuck jumps to his feet.  Waves.  Screams. 
GOODCHUCK Here!  Over here! 
The ship moves on.  We can see the decks the rigging, the vastness of it. 
Chuck realizes he is naked.  Struggles to pull on the remains of his pants finally holds them like a diaper with one hand as he continues to wave. 
On the ship no one is to be seen.  It is a spooky sight. 
The big tanker moves on. 
We are on Chuck's face.  Passed up again. 
Then he realizes what is about to happen.  He throws out the sea anchor. 
He throws himself onto the raft and grips it as tight as he can, wiggles his feet into the ropes. 
CHUCK Oh, shiiiittt! 
Then comes the wake of the ship.  It rocks the raft like a piece of flotsam.  The raft rides high up on the wave, then shoots down it, but the sea anchor holds, and the raft slows and rides along with the wave. 
And then the sea is calm again. 
Slowly Chuck sinks to his knees.  His hand lets loose his pants. 
He lies down on the raft and imagines the conversation with the ship's captain. 
CHUCK Permission to come aboard, sir. 
CHUCK/CAPTAIN Permission granted. 
CHUCK May I ask, where are you bound? 
CHUCK/CAPTAIN San Francisco.  And you? 
CHUCK As it happens, I'm headed for Frisco myself. 
CHUCK/CAPTAIN Would you do us the honor of joining us? We're just sitting down at mess.  Pork chops and gravy, cranberries, baked potatoes with all the trimmings, fresh- baked bread, apple pie... 
CHUCK No please, join me.  Some sundried fish strips, a few eyeballs, some gills to munch on. 
The depression comes back again. 
BADCHUCK They're never going to see you.  You're just another piece of trash in the ocean. 
GOODCHUCK They're on autopilot. 
BADCHUCK They're always on autopilot.  Or else it's night, or you're in the sun, or you're in the trough of a wave.  They'll never see you. 
GOODCHUCK Damn it!  Don't be so negative! 
Chuck picks up Wilson. 
GOODCHUCK Wilson, what's your story? 
He holds Wilson close to his chest. 
BADCHUCK I float.  You sink.  End of story. 
GOODCHUCK I'm serious.  I'm always going on about me, me, me.  Enough about me.  Your turn. 
BADCHUCK It's a fucking soccer ball, you idiot. 
GOODCHUCK Shut up. 
He lies on the raft and holds Wilson close. 
We move up until we see -- 
EXT.  OCEAN - AERIAL - EVENING 
Chuck lying curled up on the raft, Wilson cradled in his arms, and all around the vast empty ocean. 
Finally he reaches it, hangs on the side, breathing hard, choking, crying. 
He struggles to pull himself on board. 
But he is weak, so weak.  He can't do it. 
Summoning some primitive reserve of strength, he tries again. This time he slides on. 
He lies on the raft, panting. 
Then with all his strength he pulls himself to his feet, holds on to the mast, scans the ocean for Wilson. 
CHUCK Wilson! 
Nothing but waves. 
This is too much.  Chuck starts to cry. 
EXT.  RAFT - DAY - LATER 
Chuck takes a swallow of water, washes it around in his mouth, then swallows.  With his wet tongue he licks his cracked lips. 
The sun breaks through the clouds. 
With what strength he has left, Chuck raises the canopy, fastens it. 
He sits in the meager shade, his head between his knees. 
Closes his eyes.  Just for a minute. 
EXT.  OCEAN - DAY - LATER 
A different sort of shadow crosses Chuck's face.  He opens his eyes. 
There, riding right beside his raft, is a ship, a huge rusty tanker.  Someone shouts down in a language we don't understand. 
Chuck sits up, can't believe it.  Struggles to cover himself. 
EXT.  OCEAN - DAY - LATER 
Chuck is lifted up the rusted steel side of the boat in a Jacob's ladder. 
EXT.  SHIP - DAY - LATER 
Chuck steps on board, can't support himself. 
The crew gathers around.  None of them speak English, but there is a spontaneous outburst of human connection. 
One man brings some water.  Another a blanket.  Another some warm tea. 
Chuck sits there, shivering now. 
CHUCK Thank you.  Oh thank you. 
Deliriously happy.  Delirious. 
INT.  U.S. NAVAL HOSPITAL - HAWAII 
A cavernous hanger-sized ward brightly lit and filled with row upon row of hospital beds, each with its table, side chair, and lamp, each with a stainless steel bedpan and neatly folded sheets and blankets stacked ready to use, and each completely empty. 
Except for one. 
And on that bed we see Chuck, in a blue hospital gown.  An IV drips into his arm.  He plays idly with the remote control of the bed.  He raises the head, then the foot.  He pushes another button and the knee rest bends the bed again. 
A DOCTOR enters, carrying a thick chart.  Chuck gives him a big manic grin.  Malcolm MacDowell in "A Clockwork Orange." 
CHUCK My favorite doctor.  What's the verdict? 
DOCTOR Under the circumstances your overall health is good.  Those salt water boils you picked up on the raft are ulcerated, but they're healing nicely. 
He checks his blood work records. 
DOCTOR Hemoglobin's 10.8 -- you're anemic, that's why we're giving you iron. Potassium's low -- we're giving you an electrolyte solution with your IV. Sodium's over 150, way too high.  You may experience swelling in your extremities as you rehydrate and discharge the salt. In spite of your dietary deficiencies there's no sign of mental deterioration. 
Chuck has been trying not to laugh.  Now he can't stop himself. 
DOCTOR What's so funny. 
Chuck can't seem to help laughing at everything. 
CHUCK Sorry...sorry... Why do my joints still ache? 
DOCTOR Dehydration.  Vitamin deficiency. Protein deficiency.  Any or all of the above. 
CHUCK All I ate was fish.  That's solid protein. 
DOCTOR Protein digestion is very costly in water usage. 
CHUCK Which I didn't have. 
DOCTOR And fish are very low in fat, which is energy inefficient.  So you're going to burn up your own cells no matter how much you eat.  Luckily you ate the eyes and pancreas, which contain some Vitamin C, so you didn't get scurvy. 
Chuck laughs again. 
CHUCK I am one lucky guy. 
DOCTOR Your body chemistry and your exposure to the elements would normally lead to irritability, depression, anxiety, periods of self-reproach.  It's almost like schizophrenia.  Different sides of your personality might come to life, speak out, act out. 
CHUCK But all that's behind me.  I'm fine now. 
He starts to laugh again. 
DOCTOR If you say you are. 
TECHNICIAN But would he hear of me driving him around?  Not on your bloody life.  Rinse please. 
Chuck does.  Stan bursts into the room. 
STAN Chuck!  God damn! 
Chuck struggles out of the chair. 
STAN God damn.  God damn.  God damn. 
They are both almost overcome.  Stan holds Chuck by the shoulders and looks at him. 
STAN You're alive, you're fucking alive! 
Chuck laughs, thrilled to see Stan. 
CHUCK I beat the odds! 
STAN You beat 'em to shit, pal!  Jesus! 
TECHNICIAN I still need to floss you. 
Stan notices the technician. 
STAN Hello. 
CHUCK This is Amber.  Her boyfriend lost his foot in a shark attack. 
He says this with an absolute straight face, holding back the laughter with great effort.  Instantly there's this connection again between him and Stan. 
TECHNICIAN Ex-boyfriend. 
STAN Really. 
And he and Chuck make eye contact and we see a glimpse of their shared unspoken irony. 
STAN Uh, there's somebody out here who wants to see you. 
Chuck stares sharply at him.  Kelly?  Stan nods, but there's something he wants to say. 
STAN She thought you were dead.  We all did. 
That's not all Stan wants to say.  But Chuck is limping out the door. 
INT.  DENTIST - WAITING ROOM 
Typical dentist waiting room.  Chairs, tropical fish tanks, magazines, a few waiting patients...and Kelly, looking nervous. 
Slowly and painfully Chuck enters.  He's quite a sight.  She stands up.  There's a long moment where they look at each other. 
Then she comes into his arms.  Holds him tight.  She's part laughing, part crying. 
KELLY I'm sorry... I'm sorry... 
CHUCK Hey...hey...it's okay! 
Chuck is happy, he's still riding the high. 
KELLY You're so thin.  Am I hurting you? 
Well, maybe a little, but who cares?  He hasn't been hugged or barely touched in so long. 
CHUCK No...no...feels good... 
She disengages, looks at him with that old smile. 
KELLY Right back, you said you'd be right back. 
CHUCK A few things came up.  Or went down. 
He meets her gaze, looks her over with a smile. 
CHUCK You look...wonderful.  I like your hair. 
He notices the ring on her hand. 
KELLY I got married. 
CHUCK I thought you might have. 
KELLY I would never -- 
CHUCK I know. 
KELLY If I'd known you were alive -- 
CHUCK I would have done the same thing. 
His responses come so quick.  Chuck seems blissfully sure of himself. 
KELLY I didn't want to.  It just happened.  One day Gary was there.  He took care of everything.  He took care of me.  I was a mess. 
CHUCK You have any children? 
Kelly nods. 
CHUCK Got a picture? 
Kelly fishes for a photo, shows it to Chuck.  It's a little girl with a dog. 
KELLY Her name's Hannah. 
CHUCK Is that Jango? 
CHUCK We're not meant to be alone.  Not like that.  Share life, that's what came to me out there.  Be with someone. 
And that's the point, isn't it?  We are social animals.  No man is an island. 
KELLY This is so unfair. 
CHUCK That's what I told the fish I caught. But I ate them anyway. 
And the laughter comes again.  Kelly grins, embarrassed, a little worried. 
KELLY You okay? 
CHUCK Great.  Really. 
She stares at his face, reaches out, touches it again, this time with great tenderness. 
He nods, her touch feels so good. 
A wave of emotion comes over her:  pity?  love? 
KELLY What will you do? 
CHUCK I don't know.  I really don't know. 
We hear a distant beep-beep, discrete as a car horn can be. 
KELLY I've got to get back to Memphis. Hannah's babysitter has finals. 
CHUCK It means a lot...that you came. 
KELLY I had to come.  To be sure you were okay. 
They hold each other.  For a long time. 
KELLY I love you, Chuck. 
CHUCK You too. 
KELLY I'm so glad you're alive. 
Chuck grins. 
CHUCK You too. 
Then she heads for the waiting car.  Chuck stands by his raft, watching her go. 
INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT 
Chuck and Stan ride on the plane.  Chuck is coming down off his survival high.  He has the Angel Wing FedEx package with him. 
STAN When I first showed up, I thought you'd lost your fucking marbles. 
CHUCK I never thought it would end.  Then it did.  It was so great to be saved, I couldn't stop laughing. 
Stan pulls a flask out of his bag. 
STAN You need a drink. 
Stan takes two glasses from his bag, rests them on a FedEx container, and pours the whiskey. 
CHUCK For years my only drinking buddy was a soccer ball.  Wilson. 
Stan hoists his glass. 
STAN To Wilson. 
CHUCK To Wilson. 
Now's when Stan gets to the question he's been wanting to ask, that Kelly wanted to know, that we all want to know. 
STAN So, what's it all about? 
Chuck stares at him. 
STAN You've been over the line and you came back.  You've been saved, hallelujah! 
CHUCK Hallelujah. 
Stan looks over at him. 
STAN I'm serious.  The burning bush, the big picture, the words in neon... 
CHUCK What's it all about?  It's about being so thirsty you'd crush a fish's backbone to suck out the spinal fluid -- that's what it's about. 
Stan sits back, repulsed but relieved. 
STAN Do what it takes.  That's what I always told you. 
He pours another drink. 
STAN To life.  Fuck 'em if they can't take a joke. 
CHUCK To life. 
STAN That's all there is. 
CHUCK Believe me I know. 
He takes a sip of his drink, just savoring it, thinking. 
CHUCK But it's not being bold or being in the game or rolling the dice. 
All those things Stan used to tell him. 
CHUCK Digital laser readers.  Wow.  Terrific. 
He looks around at everyone, doesn't know what else to say. 
CHUCK I've never heard it this quiet. Shouldn't you all be getting back to work? 
The tension is broken.  Everyone laughs.  Phil Steele motions with his hand.  Let it be done. 
ANOTHER ANGLE - WIDE 
The vast, incredible machinery creaks to a start.  Everyone shakes Chuck's hand as he leaves the podium. 
As he heads for the car, REPORTERS shout questions. 
INT.  CAR - MEMPHIS FREEWAY 
We are assaulted by a surge of light, motion, activity. Snaking lines of traffic in both directions, big overpasses, the city rising beyond. 
Stan drives with a certain aggressiveness.  Chuck looks out at the traffic, at all the activity, at the vast intricate anthill of humanity going everywhere and nowhere. 
CHUCK Take your time. 
STAN What? 
CHUCK That's what it's about. 
STAN Being patient.  Don't rush things.  I get it. 
He swerves into another lane. 
CHUCK Not just that.  Take your time.  Use it. Live it. 
STAN Deep, real deep. 
He grins, cuts across to the exit. 
STAN So where to?  The office?  The hotel? The beach? 
Chuck stares at him.  Are you kidding? 
STAN What, then? 
CHUCK Deliver this package.  Then, I dunno. 
STAN (re: the package) You want that delivered, we'll deliver it.  That's what we do. 
CHUCK I need to do it. 
STAN Finish what you started.  You haven't changed, Chuck.  It's still you. 
Right. 
CHUCK You want to help, help me find the woman who sent this. 
INT.  OPERATIONS CENTER - DAY 
Stan and Chuck are in the office of a TECHNICIAN who is working away at his computer.  The Technician pulls the bar code from the Angel Wing FedEx box up on his computer screen. 
TECHNICIAN Okay.  After three years the PTR reverts to tape storage, which is okay because we access it through the CPC.  Here it is. (gestures at computer map) Ten packages from the same sender.  Baku. Delhi.  St. Petersburg.  The guy was a real road warrior.  This package was Kuala Lampur.  No activity in his account after this package.  No forwarding addresses after K.L. 
CHUCK What about the sender? 
TECHNICIAN Sure.  Bettina Peterson.  Marfa, Texas. Let's run a current check. 
He works some keys, waits. 
TECHNICIAN Hmmm.  Durango, Colorado; Asheville, North Carolina, then...canceled her account. 
CHUCK Can you find her? 
TECHNICIAN You're looking at a Level III search. For your Level III, you gotta have E-4 authorization.  I don't have it. 
STAN I do. 
He holds out a badge. 
TECHNICIAN Okay, let's let it rip. 
He starts to pull up the data. 
CHUCK Thanks.  For everything. 
STAN No sweat. 
EXT.  CHUCK'S MOTEL - THAT NIGHT 
Chuck leaves the motel, the Angel Box under his arm.  He ties it into a pannier on the side of a bicycle. 
EXT.  MEMPHIS - CHICKASAW GARDENS - NIGHT 
Chuck sneaks up to a craftsman cottage and stands by a tree with a swing on it.  Inside we see Kelly making dinner for her husband, who plays with their daughter.  For a moment Chuck watches through the window, and we watch with him. Then the dog begins to bark. 
EXT.  CEMETERY - NIGHT 
Chuck walks through the cemetery late at night.  He comes to his gravestone, stares for a long moment at the inscription, then takes out a spray can of paint and puts a HANDPRINT on it. 
He gets back on his bicycle and rides away. 
EXT.  HIGHWAY - DAY 
Chuck rides his bicycle down a road leading into the South. 
EXT.  FREEWAY - DAY 
Chuck pulls some clothes out of his saddle bags. 
EXT.  GAS STATION - MOMENTS LATER 
Chuck emerges from the restroom wearing a FedEx shirt and shorts. 
EXT.  BEACH HOUSE - HOUR LATER 
A classic beach house.  Sand dunes, stilts.  Carrying the Angel Wing Box under his arm, Chuck checks the address in his hand.  Mounts the steps.  A light mist falls.  You can see the Gulf behind the house, gray and moody. 
A WOMAN, BETTINA, answers the door -- THE woman from the beginning.  She wears cut-off jeans and a blue work shirt covered with paint.  There's a tattoo on her ankle. 
CHUCK FedEx for Bettina Peterson. 
The woman stares in disbelief at the package she hasn't seen in years and never expected to see again. 
BETTINA Where did you get that? 
Chuck displays a FedEx badge. 
CHUCK Charles Noland.  FedEx Special Projects. 
Bettina notices Chuck's bicycle. 
BETTINA You came on a bicycle?  No wonder it's so late. 
CHUCK There was an unavoidable delay. 
Bettina stares at the package, her own memories coming back. 
BETTINA Well, I have to say, I'm impressed.  You never gave up. 
CHUCK No. 
She holds the box and studies him for a long moment. Something -- the look on his face, the extraordinary reappearance of this long-lost package -- makes her curious. 
BETTINA You know what happened to this? 
CHUCK As much as anybody. 
BETTINA Want to come in?  Get dry for a minute. 
CHUCK Okay.  Sure. 
She lets Chuck in the door. 
INT.  HOUSE - DAY 
Ladders.  Scaffolds.  Huge paintings are everywhere. Paintings of wings and angels -- like the package.  Chuck stares at them.  Bettina watches Chuck stare. 
BETTINA I've got some coffee on.  Would you like some? 
INT.  KITCHEN - LATER 
Bettina pours some coffee.  The package sits in the counter. Some magazines are spread around, including a People Magazine with Chuck's photograph on the cover. 
CHUCK (takes a sip) It's good. 
They smile awkwardly at each other.  She starts to open it. 
BETTINA Hmmm.  Feels like it might have gotten wet. 
CHUCK Possible.  So you did those wings? 
BETTINA Yeah.  A long time ago. 
CHUCK They're harder to do than they look. 
BETTINA Oh?  You've tried? 
CHUCK Well, I do a little drawing -- 
She's opened the package.  She pulls out the bottles of salsa and the letter. 
CHUCK Our apologies that it never made it to the recipient. 
BETTINA He was a sorry sonofabitch, and I'm sorry I ever married him. 
There is a moment where neither knows what to say. 
BETTINA You look familiar. 
Her eyes start to register recognition.  She glances at the magazine with Chuck's picture on it.  She picks it up. 
BETTINA I can't believe this.  I -- I -- They are... You're a gifted artist.  You're into something very powerful.  Primal. Truly. 
CHUCK Well, not really, I -- 
BETTINA You are.  Yes you are. (so many things she wants to say) What gave you the idea to paint on that cave? 
Chuck thinks about that.  After a moment, he grins. 
CHUCK To tell you the truth -- you did. 
BETTINA Do you...have any more packages to deliver? 
CHUCK No.  that was the last one. 
BETTINA Just sit here, I'll get us some lunch. 
Chuck sits back on the couch, taking in the sight of the ocean in the light rain.  He looks over at all the canvases, the easel, the palettes.  The wind rustles the palm trees around the house.  The surf crashes and rustles.  Familiar sounds.  Island sounds. 
He relaxes a little.  Maybe the package with the wings was a sign, he kept it all these years precisely for this.  Then there's a sound of a truck in the driveway. 
