Chasing Amy 
Chasing Amy 
Written by Kevin Smith 
INT. COMIC BOOK STORE - DAY A pile of COMIC BOOKS are on a shelf next to myriad others. The most prominent one is called BLUNTMAN AND CHRONIC'.  A hand reaches in and pulls one out of frame. HOLDEN opens the comic and flips through it He shakes his head.  BANKY looks over his shoulder. 
BANKY Felt Like this fucking day would never come.  Issue two - on the shelf. 
HOLDEN Yippee. 
BANKY Don't start, alright!  This is a cool moment, and I'd appreciate you not trying to ruin it.  How often does a guy get the opportunity to purchase something with his name on it! (points to name on cover) Banky Edwards- right! (points to the other) Holden McNeil. HOLDEN I know my name. BANKY C'mon, sour puss.  We got the rest of our lives to be artists.  But it's supply and demand.  And right now, the unwashed masses demand this. HOLDEN (off comic) This is easy, alright!  And right now it pays the bills.  Just don't forget that we're better than this. BANKY I'll tell you who we're better than: these two fags right here. They approach the counter, where STEVE-DAVE, the store manager, and WALT the Fan-boy, play a card game. BANKY (lays books on the counter) Alright Old-Maid's - take a break from the Crazy-8's marathon and ring us up. STEVE-DAVE (not looking up) Well, well,well, Walt Did you see who it is!  The local celebrities.  Quick - get them to autograph one of their books so we can sell it for triple it's value. WALT I'm not that in need of fifteen cents right now. They snicker and high-five one another.  Holden rolls his eyes. BANKY You guys operate the smallest, ladies' bridge circle I've ever seen. WALT For your information, we're playing Crimson Mystical Mages' - an overpower card game. Not that either of you would give a shit about something as advanced	as this - there are no dick or poopie jokes involved. BANKY (to Holden) I don't think they're fans. WALT No, we're not.  You're both a couple of fucking no talents that got lucky. STEVE-DAVE And obviously your handlers or hangers- on convinced you that your first comic was good which it was not it was thoroughly mediocre with a few spiky bits of dialogue.  And when you get your foot in the door of the business, what do you do!  You turn out a piece of shit like Bluntman and Chronic'. WALT Tell him, Steve-Dave. STEVE-DAVE (off comic) Bluntman and Chronic'.  Pah. What was that thing the little stoner pulled on the villain in the last issue! WALT The Stinky-palm. STEVE-DAVE Stinky-palm.  You give comics a bad name I tell all my customers not to buy it, to spend their money on a real comic book. WALT Fucking one hit wonder, dime-store Frank Miller's. STEVE-DAVE This is the reality at Comic-Toast - you're not going to get your ass kissed here, because both me and Walt think you suck. WALT And me. STEVE-DAVE I said that. Steve-Dave offers the boys his two middle fingers, then goes back to playing his game with Walt.  Holden and Banky stare, shocked.  Banky nudges Holden and they both exit Steve-Dave and the Fan-boy slap hands and go back to playing. WALT I've got a dragon card - forty power- ups and twelve life points!  Ha!  I get your elf card! STEVE-DAVE You're such a bitch!  But thankfully, I've saved a dark forces Shaman card for just such an occasion. WALT You suck!  Eighty six life-power points to my twenty two! STEVE-DAVE I schooled their asses, now I'm schooling your's. Suddenly.  A trash can crashes through the front window. Steve-Dave and Walt hit the deck like bitches, covering one another.  They look up slowly. Steve-Dave leaps to his feet and looks at the shattered mess.  He pulls something off the garbage can and reads it. WALT You know it was those two fucks! Let's call the cops and have them busted!  I know where their studio is! Or better yet, let's sue!  You can sue them, Steve-Dave! STEVE-DAVE (still reading note) That won't be necessary. WALT What?!  Why the hell not! STEVE-DAVE (holds up check) Because this is a check for three times what that window cost. (reading note) Dear critics - thanks for the insight. But like my grandmother always said - Fuck 'em if they can't take a joke.. and break their window.' Kiss it,		Banky the Hack. P.S. - Your card game blows. WALT He said Kiss it! CREDITS INT. COMIC BOOK: CONVENTION SIGNING BOOTH - DAY A physically large FAN - sweaty brow, tote bag bursting with comics - leans forward, smiling. FAN Could you sign it To a really big fan! Holden sits at a table.  Across from the barely-managing- to-stand Fan.  He offers him a patronizingly kind, half- smile in return, HOLDEN You bet. We're at a Comic Book show, specifically at a book- signing. Behind Holden hangs a large banner, heralding HOLDEN McNEIL AND BANKY EDWARDS - CREATORS OF BLUNTMAN AND CHRONIC'. Beside it is a large mock-up of the comic book cover which features two stoner super-heroes who bear a striking resemblance to a pair of very familiar friendly neighborhood drug dealers, Holden hands the book back to the Fan. FAN I love this book man!  This shit's awesome.  I wish I was like these guys - getting stoned, talking all raw about		chicks and fighting supervillains!  I love these guys! They're like Cheech and Chong' meet Bill and fed'! HOLDEN I like to chink of them as Rosencrantz and Guildenstern' meet Vladimir and Estragon'. FAN Yeah! (beat) Who! BANKY signs the book of another COLLECTOR. COLLECTOR So you draw this! BANKY (signing the comic) I ink it and I'm also the colorist. The guy next to me draws it.  But we both came up with the characters, COLLECTOR What's that mean - you ink it'! BANKY Well.  It means that Holden draws the pictures in pencil, and then he gives it to me to go over in ink COLLECTOR So you just trace! Banky freezes up.  He composes himself and continues signing. BANKY It's not tracing.  I add depth and shading to give the image mere definition. Only then does the drawing really take shape. COLLECTOR You go over what he draws with a pen - that's tracing. BANKY (hands book back to Collector) Not really. (calling out) Next! A LITTLE KID steps up but the Collector lingers. COLLECTOR Hey man.  If somebody draws something and then you draw the same thing right on top of it, not going out-side the designated original art what do call that! LITTLE KID (shrugs) I don't know.  Tracing? COLLECTOR (to Banky) See? BANKY It's not tracing. COLLECTOR Oh, but it is. BANKY (to Little Kid) Do you want Lour book signed or what? COLLECTOR Hey - don't get all testy with him just because you have a problem with your station in life. BANKY I'm secure with what I do. COLLECTOR Then say it - you're a tracer. BANKY (grabbing Little Kid's book) How should I sign this? LITTLE KID (grabs book back) I don't want you to sign it, I want the guy that draws Bluntman and Chronic to sign it.  You're just a tracer. COLLECTOR Tell him, Little Shaver. Holden accepts a comic from another Fan. HOLDEN (off comic) Who do I sign it to! Before Holden can finish, a loud crash is heard.  He looks to his left and freaks. Banky is throttling the Collector from across the table. The Collector attempts to fight him off.  SECURITY GUARDS pull them apart. Holden grabs Banky. COLLECTOR Jesus!  All I did was call him a tracer! BANKY (to Collector) I'LL TRACE A CHALK LINE AROUND YOUR DEAD FUCKING BODY, YOU FUCK?! HOLDEN (to Security Guard) Could you get him out of here! The Security Guards drag the collector away. COLLECTOR Hey, wait a sec!  He jumped me!  And you're dragging me away!! (exiting) Fucking tracer! BANKY (calling OC) YOUR MOTHER'S A TRACER!! 
HOLDEN Can I explain the audience principle to you!  If you insult and accost them, then we have no audience. BANKY He started it!  Fucking cock-knocker! He's lucky I didn't put my pen through his thorax! HOLDEN Need I remind you... (holds up watch) Curtain's in ten minutes. INT. COMIC BOOK CONVENTION LECTURE HALL - DAY HOOPER fills the frame.  He comes off like a typical, pro- black/anti-white homeboy. HOOPER For years in this industry whenever an African-American character - hero or villain - was introduced usually by white artists and writers - they got slapped with racist names that singled them out as negroes: Black Panther, Black Lightning, Black Goliath, Black Mantra, Black Talon, Black Spider, Black Hand, Black Falcon, Black Cat.. VOICE FROM CROWD She's white. HOOPER She is? (beat) Well bust this - regardless. We're at a panel discussion.  The room is full.  Five creators sit at a long table, their names on placards in front of them. (One of them is a very striking Girl.)  The banner behind them reads WORDS UP - MINORITY VOICES IN COMICS'. HOOPER (holds up comic) Now my book, White-Hating Coon', doesn't have any of that bullshit. The hero's name is Maleekwa, and he's a descendant of the black tribe that established the first society on the planet, while all you European mother fuckers were still hiding in caves and shit, all terrified of the sun. He's a strong role model that a young black reader can look up to, Cause I'm here to tell you - the chickens are comin' home to roost, ya'll: the black man's no longer gonna play the minstrel in the medium of comics and Sci- Fi/Fantasy!  We're keeping it real, and we're gonna get respect - by any means necessary! During the speech, Holden and Banky enter and sit up front. HOLDEN (calling out) Bullshit!  Lando Calrissian was a black man, and he got to fly the Millennium Falcon! Hooper whips his head around, looking for the source of the comment HOOPER Who said that?!? HOLDEN (standing) I did!  Lando Calrissian is a positive black role model in the realm of Science Fiction/Fantasy. HOOPER Fuck Lando Calrissian!  Uncle Tom nigger!  Always some white boy gotta invoke the holy trilogy'! Bust this - those movies are about how the white man keeps the brother man down - even in a galaxy far, far away.  Check this shit.  You got cracker farm-boy Luke Skywalker, Nazi poster boy - blond hair, blue eyes. And then you've got		Darth Vader: the blackest brother in the galaxy.  Nubian God. BANKY What's a Nubian? HOOPER Shut the fuck up!  Now Vader, he's a spiritual brother, with the force and all that shit.  Then this cracker Skywalker gets his hands on a light- saber, and the boy decides he's gonna run the fucking universe - gets a whole Klan of whites together, and they're gonna bust up Vader's hood the Death Star.  Now what the fuck do you call that! BANKY Intergalactic Civil War! HOOPER Gentrification.  They're gonna drive our the black element, to make the galaxy quote, unquote safe' for white folks. HOLDEN But Vader turns, out to be Luke's father.  And in Jedi, they become friends. HOOPER Don't make me bust a cap in your ass, yo!  Jedi's the most insulting installment, because Vader's beautiful,		black visage is sullied when he pulls off his mask to reveal a feeble, crusty white man! They're trying to tell us that deep inside, we all want to be white! BANKY Well isn't that true! Hooper explodes, He pulls a nine millimeter from his belt, draws on Banky and fires.  Banky goes down, falling forward into the crowd The crowd screams and starts to scatter, Hooper jumps over the table and raises his fists in the air. HOOPER BLACK RAGE! BLACK RAGE!!  I'LL KILL ANY WHITE FOLKS I LAY MY MOTHER FUCKIN' EYES ON!!! The crowd-is gone.  Holden sits in his chair, laughing. Hooper steps off the stage and picks Banky's head up off the floor. HOOPER (breaking character) What's a Nubian!'  Bitch, you almost made me laugh! Hooper sounds different Actually, he sounds gay. Actually - he is.  Banky smiles. BANKY Well what about you!  You didn't tell me you were going to scream Black Rage'.  I nearly pissed myself. HOLDEN How do you manage to get away with this all the time?  Shouldn't cops be busting your head open right about now? BANKY Wrong coast. HOOPER (off gun) Well this right here - she full of blanks, okay.  And Opiate gets all sorts of legal clearances before I go on. HOLDEN Your publisher condones these theatrics! HOOPER Condones?  Honey, they insist.  I need to sell the image to sell the book Would the audience still buy the Black Rage' angle if they found out the book was written by a.. a... BANKY Faggot. HOOPER When you say if it sounds so sexy... (he kisses Banky full on the lips) BANKY (wipes his lips) Hey, hey!  I'll play your victim, but not your catcher. VOICE How is it that you sound like Minister Farakhan when you're on stage.. They turn to see... A beautiful, blonde, ruffled-haired angel swinging her purse in a circle. Her name is ALYSSA.  She's the striking Girl from the panel who didn't get to say much. ALYSSA ...and the King of Pop when you're nor. HOOPER Look out, boys - this kitten has a whip. ALYSSA (shoves and slaps him) Always before I get to speak!  I swear - the next con I attend and they ask me to be on the minority panel, if I see your name anywhere near the List, I'm passing. HOOPER (defending himself) Holden.  Banky - this pile of P.M.S. is Alyssa Jones.  She does that book Idiosyncratic Routine'.  This is the fourth panel we've been on together, and even though she knows my publisher sets this up and pays for the event. She still gets mad when it ends with my act. ALYSSA I just wish I was the one who gets to shoot you. HOOPER That's what my father said when I came - nay - leapt out of the closet (off guys) These boys do Bluntman and Chronic', which outsells both of our books put together, hence they're never on a panel with the likes of us.  They slumming right now. BANKY I've read your book.  It's cute. Chick stuff, but cute. Holden hits him. BANKY What? HOLDEN (shoots him a look; to Alyssa) Sorry about him.  He's dealing with being an inker. ALYSSA (to Banky) Oh. You trace! Banky seethes. HOLDEN (shaking her hand) I really enjoy your book I'm surprised we've never met at any other Con's before. ALYSSA Lose the dick or change your skin tone and we can get to know each other on panel after panel while the Pink Black Panther here plays Chuck D. for the fanboys. HOOPER Hey, jealousy. (to the Boys) I told Alyssa I'd buy her a post-rave drink.  Do the Garden-Staters have to sprint to the Lincoln Tunnel, or can you stay for a round in the big, scary city! BANKY We're gonna take off soon... HOLDEN We'll go. Banky offers Holden a puzzled glance.  Then he nods to Hooper. BANKY We'll go. INT BAR - NIGHT Holden, Banky, Alyssa and Hooper sir around a table drinking, talking, and smoking. BANKY Archie, alright!  Archie and the Riverdale gang were a pure and fun- lovin' bunch.  You can't find dysfunction in those comics, because they were just flat out wholesome. HOOPER Archie and Jughead were lovers. (sips his drink) BANKY Shut the fuck up. HOOPER It's true.  Archie was the bitch and Jughead was the butch - that's why Jughead wears that crown-looking hat all the time: he the king, of queen Archie's world. BANKY Man, I feel a hate-crime coming on HOLDEN He's got a point.  Archie never did settle on Betty or Veronica. BANKY Because he wanted them both at the same time, you assholes!  He never chose one because he was trying to get both of them into a three-way! HOOPER (pulls out a dollar and hands it to Banky) Here.  I want you to go down to the corner store and buy yourself a clue. Go on. BANKY Eat it.  Urkel. HOOPER I told you to watch it with that Urkel shit.  Face it, girl - Archie's a sister. BANKY (getting up; to Hooper) That's it.  You. HOOPER Moi? BANKY You are marching back across the street with me, and we're going to pick up a shit load of Archie books, I am going to prove to you - beyond the shadow of a doubt that Archie was all about pussy.  Come on. HOOPER (sliding out of booth) This boy is conflicted, I shall play mother-therapist for him.  You two sit tight.  We shall return promptly. Banky and Hooper exit, leaving Alyssa and Holden alone at the table. ALYSSA Is he always Like that! HOLDEN For years now.  Started back in third grade - a nun was teaching us about the Blessed Trinity.  She's going on about the three persons in one God thing - Father, Son, Holy Spirit - and he just goes ballistic.  I guess it was too big for him to grasp.  They got into this huge fight. ALYSSA Please.  How bad could it have been! HOLDEN You ever seen a nun call a small child a fucking cunt-rag'?  Wasn't pretty, Shit like that's bound to happen when you make a kid wear a matching tie and slacks everyday. ALYSSA And your parochial school misadventures! HOLDEN Limited to wine-tasting prior to mass. Turned me into a grade school alcoholic altar boy.  I couldn't tell you how many mornings after serous benders		I'd wake up next to strange priests. ALYSSA Aren't you the sharp wit! HOLDEN Sharp!  No.  I'm just a fan of clergy- molestation humor.  Probably why the extended family quit inviting me to First Communion parties. Alyssa laughs.  Holden smiles. ALYSSA (looking OC) You play darts! HOLDEN Not professionally.  You know - only in bars. 
AT THE DART BOARD 
A dart hits the board then, one hits the wall beside the board. 
Alyssa winds up with another dart.  Holden watches. Her's always hit. His never do. 
ALYSSA So your new book seems to be selling like mad. 
HOLDEN It goes back to something my grandmother told me when I was a kid. "Holden," she said "The big bucks are in dick and fart jokes."  She was a church-goer. 
ALYSSA Uh-oh - the cry from the heart of a real artist trapped in commercial hell - pitying his good fortune.  I'm sure you can dry your eyes on all those fat checks you rake in. 
HOLDEN I'm sorry - did I detect a note of bitter envy in there! 
ALYSSA Nope.  I'm happy my stuff gets read at all.  There's very little market for hearts and flowers in this spandex- clad, big pecs, big tits, big guns field.  If I sell two issues, I feel like John Grisham. 
HOLDEN (looking out window) It's all about marketing.  Over- or underweight guys who don't get laid - they're our bread and butter.  People like those two outside should be yours. 
Through the window, we see a COUPLE making out on the hood of a car. 
HOLDEN And sadly, there are more of our core audience out there than yours. (smiles) Look at that, though - kind of gives you a little charge, to see two people in love.  And all over Banky's car, no less.  That car's seeing more action right now than it's seen in years. 
ALYSSA Bubbly guy like that, it's hard to figure out why. 
HOLDEN (still looking at OC Couple) You've gotta respect that kind of display of affection.  It's crazy, rude, self-absorbed - but it's love. 
ALYSSA That's not love. 
HOLDEN Says you. 
ALYSSA That out there!  That's fleeting. 
HOLDEN Fleeting. 
ALYSSA Uh-huh.  You wanna hear about love! Oh, I'll tell you about love. 
HOLDEN A story? 
ALYSSA The story.  The original love story. 
HOLDEN 'Doctor Zhivago'. 
ALYSSA Nope.  My mother's uncle.  He was a millionaire. 
Alyssa exits to the night.  Holden stares after her.  Two beats later, Hooper and Banky enter, holding an 'Everything's Archie' comic between them. 
BANKY You're insane.  Archie is not fucking Mister Weatherbee! 
HOOPER Deny, deny, deny. (to Holden) Where's Alyssa? 
HOLDEN Huh!  Oh.  She left.  She said she'd call you later. 
BANKY (off comic) He's just offering to help Archie with his homework! 
HOOPER Read between the lines. 
BANKY (shoves book at him) Fuck this. (to Holden) Let's go.  Traffic. (no response from Holden) Holden! 
HOLDEN (shaken) What! 
BANKY Let's go. 
HOOPER (looking out window) D'jou see that dent in the hood of your car! 
BANKY (looking out window) What the...!  Son of a bitch! 
Banky runs out Holden shrugs at Hooper. 
HOOPER Let me guess: you like her! 
HOLDEN Who? 
HOOPER Miss Alyssa Jones. 
HOLDEN She's alright. 
HOOPER As long as that's all. (finishes drink) Maybe you can convince that partner of your's to drop me off downtown before you scurry out the tunnel! 
HOLDEN (beat) Mister Weatherbee wasn't really trying to fuck Archie, was he! 
They begin exiting. 
HOOPER Hell no.  Weatherbee was Reggie's bitch. 
INT. STUDIO - DAY 
We're in Holden and Banky's studio/apartment.  It's a rented loft-style place with high ceilings, wood floors and sparse furnishings.  There are posters on the walls, a sort of kitchenette, a hockey net, a big TV. (with all the trimmings - VCR, Laserdisc player, Sega, SNES), a huge comfy couch, and two drawing boards with adjacent desks (littered with pencils, pens, coloring pencils, paints, erasers, etc.) - at which sit Holden and Banky. They're working.  Some music plays. 
C.U. OF HOLDEN PENCILING - over his shoulder, we see Holden sketching Chronic in mid-attack of his arch- nemesis - the Giggler.  Holden erases a line and re- draws. 
C.U. OF BANKY INKING - over his shoulder, we see Banky outlining a pre-penciled page.  He traces Bluntman swinging from a street light. 
The two work in silence.  Then... 
BANKY (not looking up) This is one of the best street lights you've ever drawn. 
HOLDEN It's the one across from the post office. 
BANKY Looks just like it. 
HOLDEN Thanks. (beat) What do you wanna do tonight! 
BANKY Get a pizza.  Watch 'Degrassi Junior High'. 
HOLDEN (brings his two pointer fingers together) We shared a moment.  And in that moment, one thing was made abundantly clear: this girl loves me, my friend. Loves-me. 
6.	INT. HER-STERECTOMY - NIGHT						6. 
It's a club - people are mingling, a band is playing, it's loud.  But something's fishy.  Hooper's tending bar. He hands a GUY a drink.  The Guy sips it. 
GUY This is so watered down.  It's terrible.  Why is it you can never get a decent drink in these places! 
Hooper looks around in a very exaggerated fashion. 
GUY What are you doing! 
HOOPER Trying to find you a tissue. 
The Guy shoots Hooper an angry glare, Banky enters. 
BANKY Alright - bring on the free hootch. 
HOOPER As long as you don't bitch about how little alcohol is in the drink. (hands Banky a drink; to Guy) You owe me five sixty. 
GUY (off Banky) And I suppose you're going to make your friend here pay for his drink right! 
BANKY Hey, I befriended a guy in a position of authority so I could abuse that authority and get free shit.  You want to do the same?  There's a lonely Hindu works at the'7-ll' across the street.  Get in tight with him. 
The Guy angrily pulls out his money and slams it on the bar. 
GUY I work at that '7-11'! (storms away) 
BANKY (calling after him) Wanna be friends! 
HOOPER Where's your better half! 
BANKY Taking a piss.  Guy's got a bladder like an infant. 
HOOPER That's funny - he says you're hung like an infant. 
BANKY Must his mother tell him everything! 
Holden enters. 
BANKY What'd you do - fall in love? 
HOLDEN Where is she? 
HOOPER Over there... 
ON THE DANCE FLOOR - in the middle of a thrall of people - dances Alyssa.  She moves like a cat and she's looking very sexy. 
OC HOOPER Been dancin' for an hour.  Hasn't stopped yet. 
Hooper, Holden, and Banky stare OC. 
BANKY She ain't no Denny Terrio, I'll say that. 
Holden smacks Banky and moves to exit. 
HOOPER Wait. wait, wait - there's something you should know. 
HOLDEN She's got a boyfriend. 
HOLDEN You know what this is!  This is fate. 
ALYSSA (regarding her move) No, this is the 'Rog'. 
HOLDEN I was talking about us meeting - what are the chances! 
ALYSSA Pretty slim.  I haven't been back to the 'burbs since my friend's funeral. 
HOLDEN The Quick Stop girl died! 
ALYSSA Another friend - Julie Dwyer.  She died in the.. 
HOLDEN Y.M.C.A pool!  Damn!  You knew her too! 
ALYSSA So well. 
HOLDEN One friend in an asylum, the other friend in the grave.  You're a dangerous person to know. 
ALYSSA But I can tap. (does an impromptu tap dance) That was the Buffalo Two-Step. 
HOLDEN Very solid. 
ALYSSA That's what six years of tap lessons yields. 
HOLDEN Two towns away from each other for years and we had to meet in New York. 
The Sand stops playing. People clap. 
ALYSSA Coulda been worse - we could have not met at all. 
Holden looks at her. 
OC SINGER Thank you.  Thanks. 
The SINGER on stage speaks into the microphone. 
SINGER A long time ago, we used to have this bass player who took off one day to draw funny books or something.  Maybe you've seen her stuff - it's called 'Idiosyncratic Routine'' 
The crowd applauds.  Alyssa shakes her head, smiling. Holden pokes her. 
SINGER But what a lot of people don't know is that she used to harbor these delusions that she could sing.  And she used to subject us to these throaty renditions of Debbie Gibson tunes and shit, insisting that we let her front on a few numbers.  Well, we didn't and she quit.. and then she got famous, the bitch. (crowd laughs) But she's here tonight, and I think if we all begged, or maybe offered her some X, she'd get up here and treat us to some of her vocal stylings. (crowd applauds) What do you say, Alyssa? 
Alyssa shakes her head no.  The crowd urges her.  Holden pushes her forward. 
SINGER She's shy. (yelling) GET UP HERE AND SING, BITCH!! 
The crowd thunders.  Alyssa offers the Singer an embarrassed half-smile.  She looks at Holden, who claps along with the others and nods toward the stage.  Alyssa shakes her head and relents, heading through the crowd 
Banky and Hooper stand at the bar. 
BANKY This is so queer. (he exits) 
HOOPER (beat) You don't know the half of it. 
Alyssa jumps on stage, hugging the Singer.  She takes the mic, shaking her head.  The crowd is applauding. 
ALYSSA She is such a twat. 
The crowd cheers.  Alyssa laughs.  She turns to the band and says something which they nod.  She turns back to the crowd. 
ALYSSA Yes? 
BANKY You said 'fuck'.  To that girl.  You said you'd 'fuck' her. 
ALYSSA And? 
BANKY How can a girl 'fuck' another girl! Were you talking about strap-ons or something? 
HOLDEN (hits him) Would you shut up!! 
BANKY What!!?  It's a valid question.  You know the dyke stuff in the Penthouse Letters section is written by guys - this is our chance to get the inside scoop. 
HOLDEN (to Alyssa) I don't know how many times I can apologize for him. 
ALYSSA It's okay.  Secretly, all I really want is to be the center of attention. (to Banky) I've never used a snap-on. 
BANKY Then what's with saying 'fuck? Shouldn't you say 'eat her out' or at least modify the term 'fuck' with something like 'fist'? 
ALYSSA Let me ask you a question - can men 'fuck' each other! 
BANKY Ask Hooper. 
ALYSSA In your estimation. 
BANKY Sure. 
ALYSSA So for you, to 'fuck' means to penetrate.  You're used to the more traditional definition - you inside some girl you've duped, jack-hammering away, not noticing that bored look in her eyes. 
BANKY Hey - I always notice the bored look in their eyes. 
ALYSSA (laughs) 'Fucking' is nor limited to penetration, Banky. For me it describes any sex when it's not totally about love.  I don't love Kim, but I'll fuck her.  I'm sure you don't love every girl you sleep with. 
BANKY Some of them I downright loathe. 
ALYSSA But I'll bet it's different with the ones you love.  I'll bet you go the full nine when it's not just a quick fix - like you go down on them longer or something. 
HOLDEN Here we go. 
BANKY I don't do that. 
ALYSSA What?!?! 
BANKY I stopped dropping.  It got to be too frustrating. 
HOLDEN As stupid as you usually come off during this diatribe of your's, you're going to come off ten times as stupid on this occasion. 
BANKY What?!  I lost my tolerance for the bullshit baggage that comes with eating girls out.  What's the big deal?! 
ALYSSA If you say the smell, so help me, I'll slug you. 
BANKY Not the smell - the smell is good. I'm talking about not being able to do it property.  And my mother brought me up to believe that if I can't do something right I shouldn't do it at all.  Of course, my father told me she gave lousy head, but that's beside the point. 
ALYSSA At least you blame yourself for your sexual inadequacies. 
BANKY No, I blame them.  Chicks never help you out.  They never tell you what to do.  And most of them are self- conscious about that smell factor, and so most of the time they just lay there, frozen like a deer in the headlights, right?  Not for nothing, but when a chick goes down on me.  I let her know where to go, and what the status is.  You gotta handle it like CNN and the Weather Channel - constant updates. 
HOLDEN You're such an idiot. 
ALYSSA No, he's got a point.  That's how I was in high school - I was nervous, and inhibited about being eaten out. But by the time I got to college, that all changed.  I loosened up.  Not only did I learn to communicate - I learned to be bossy. I was like one of those guys at the airport with those big flash lights - waving them this way, directing them that way, telling them when to stop. 
The Execs and Sloss laugh.  Holden and Banky politely join in.  Banky shoots Holden a 'these guys are idiots' look. 
EXEC 1 Which brings us to our proposal: we are extremely interested in doing twelve, half-hour 'Bluntman and Chronic' cartoons.  The age of Beavis is coming to a close, and we're looking for something... something... 
BANKY Even more retarded and juvenile to sate the voracious, intellectually- challenged miscreants that make up your key demographic. 
The Execs laugh hard.  Sloss secretly shrugs to Banky and gives the thumbs up. 
EXEC 1 (composes himself) So what do you say! Are we in business! 
Banky leans back into the couch, wearing a thoughtful face.  He looks to Holden, then to Sloss.  Sloss nods in understanding. 
SLOSS Jim, Sean - could we have a few minutes! 
EXEC 2 (looks to Exec 1) Uh... absolutely.  We'll just.. 
EXEC 1 Uh...wait outside 
The Exec's smile and head our, closing the door behind then.  Sloss turns to Banky. 
SLOSS So?  Did I do good? 
BANKY You did better - you sold us out! 
They clasp hands and quietly explode in ebullience. 
SLOSS Do you know how much you'll make on merchandising alone! 
BANKY (as Simon Bar Sinister) Money and Power, and Money and Power... 
SLOSS (joins in) Money dnd Power, and Money and... 
HOLDEN (interrupting) I don't think it's a good idea. 
Banky and Sloss freeze.  They stare at Holden. 
BANKY What's not a good idea!  Please don't say the cartoon, please don't say the cartoon... 
HOLDEN The cartoon. 
SLOSS What?!?  Are you out of your fucking mind! 
BANKY (getting up) John, let me handle this. ( to Holden) You are out of your fucking mind, aren't you! 
HOLDEN Is this how you want to be remembered! As the guy who created Bluntman and Chronic! 
Banky sits at the Exec's desk and starts rifling through the guy's stuff. 
BANKY No, I'd like to be remembered as the filthy rich guy who created Bluntman and Chronic. 
HOLDEN But it'll be all glossy and main- stream.  We'll lose any artistic credibility we ever had. 
SLOSS (to Banky) Is it me!  I don't see the problem. 
BANKY (to Sloss) He just has to get over this crush of his. 
SLOSS Oh God - not on Carrie Fisher again! (to Holden) Holden - she's not really a Princess. 
BANKY (opening drawer with a letter opener) Not on her; on Alyssa Jones - the chick that does that comic book 'Idiosyncratic Routine'.  You ever seen it? 
ALYSSA Aren't there some men that you find attractive?  Granted, not enough to sleep with, but still - just handsome or something! 
HOLDEN Sure.  Harrison Ford.  And our mail- man. 
ALYSSA Well it's the same thing.  I look at you and just find you really handsome. And you know, it has very little to do with your look, per-se.  Your look is fine, don't get me wrong.  But it's more your outlook.  The things you say, the way you see things.  It's... I don't know... attractive, 
Holden looks away, embarrassed, 
ALYSSA I weirded you our the other night 
HOLDEN Huh!  No, not really. 
ALYSSA Come on. 
HOLDEN (beat) It's just that we've.., I mean, I've never seen that kind of thing up close and personal.  It just took awhile to process, longer than usual. 
ALYSSA Do you want to talk about it! 
HOLDEN Um.  If you want to. 
ALYSSA I like you.  I haven't liked a man in a long time.  And I'm not a man-hater or something.  It's just been some time since I've been exposed to a man that didn't immediately live-into a stereotype of some sort.  And I want you to feel comfortable with me, because I want us to be friends.  So if there are things you'd like to know, it's okay to ask me. 
HOLDEN (beat) Why girls? 
ALYSSA (beat) Why men? 
HOLDEN Because that's the standard 
ALYSSA If that's the only reason you're attracted to women - because it's the standard.. 
HOLDEN It's more than that. 
ALYSSA So you've never been curious about men? 
HOLDEN Curious about men?  Well... I always wondered why my father watched 'Hee- Haw'. 
ALYSSA You know what I mean. 
HOLDEN No. 
ALYSSA Why not! 
HOLDEN No interest. 
ALYSSA Because...? 
HOLDEN Girls feel right. 
ALYSSA And that's how I feel.  I've never really been attracted to men.  I'm more comfortable with the idea of girls. 
HOLDEN Wait, wait, wait - you're still a virgin? 
ALYSSA No. 
HOLDEN But you've only been with girls. 
ALYSSA You're saying a person's a virgin until they've had intercourse with a member of the opposite sex? 
HOLDEN Isn't that the standard definition? 
ALYSSA Come on. 
HOLDEN Just...uh... just give me a moment. 
INT AIRPORT - DAY 
Holden enters. Banky tries to balance way-too-much luggage. 
HOLDEN Look at you.  It's a two day trip. 
BANKY I got the Sega in one bag, my clothes in the other, and two months worth of unread comics in this one. 
HOLDEN We're going to a convention, for the love of God.  We'll be busy from ten 'till eight each day. When are you possibly going to have time for any of that shit?  In fact, fuck it - you're leaving some of this shit here in a locker.  Come on - give me the two that aren't clothes. 
BANKY Hold on. (starts rifling through one bag) 
HOLDEN What are you doing? 
BANKY I just have to get something. (pulls out a huge stack of porno books) 
HOLDEN Who are you, Larry fucking Flynt? What are you going to do with all of those? 
BANKY Read the articles.  What do you think I'm going to do with them?  They're stroke books. 
HOLDEN You've got like thirty books there! We're only there for two days! 
BANKY (leafing through mags) Variety's the spice of life.  I like a wide selection.  Sometimes I'm in the mood for nasty close-ups, sometimes I like them arty and air-brushed.  Some times it's a spread brown-eye kind of night, sometimes it's girl-on-girl time.  Sometimes a steamy letter will do it, sometimes - not often, but sometimes - I like the idea of a chick with a horse. 
A beeping sound is heard.  Holden checks his beeper. 
HOLDEN Go check us in.  I've gotta call Alyssa. 
BANKY His master's voice. 
HOLDEN Put that stuff away. 
Holden exits.  Banky starts packing his mags up.  A little KID enters, staring at him. 
KID What are those? 
BANKY (looks at kid then books) Do you Like horsies? 
Holden finishes dialing the phone.  Cross cut between him and Alyssa at home. 
ALYSSA I hope for the sake of the women you've dated that you're only this quick in returning calls. 
HOLDEN What's up?  I'm about to get on a plane. 
ALYSSA Ohhh.  Why! 
HOLDEN Last minute invite to the Dragon Con'. 
ALYSSA Shit. 
HOLDEN What? 
ALYSSA My sister's at my parents'.  I was gonna go see her. 
HOLDEN The one that wrote the book? 
HOLDEN Excuse me? 
WOMAN You've got it in your head that Alyssa's not really into chicks - that she just hasn't met the right man. And you believe you're it.  You're going to treat her right, fuck her like a stud, and 'straight-jacket' her back from the land of the lost.  And the sad truth is that you'll accomplish none of that and wind up as either an even more bitter misogynist or a reverse fag-hag. 
Holden's at a loss.  Alyssa slips past the Woman, carrying an overnight bag. 
ALYSSA Don't mind her.  That's just her way a saying hello. 
WOMAN Actually, it's just my way of saying "Give it up." 
ALYSSA (to Woman) You're such an asshole. 
WOMAN When you file the date-rape charges, don't say I didn't warn you. 
HOLDEN (holding out hand) I'm Holden, by the way. 
WOMAN I'm the voice of reason that Miss Bitch is having such a hard time listening to. 
HOLDEN Look, we're just friends. 
WOMAN That's what every guy says before he tries purring your hand on his dick. 
HOLDEN And how do you know men so well? 
WOMAN Because I lapdance for a living, dick- head. 
She slams the door. Holden looks to Alyssa. 
ALYSSA Ohhh - you look so cute! 
She heads down the stairs. 
HOLDEN Who was that? 
ALYSSA Just an occasional friend. 
HOLDEN Why would you want to hang our with someone bitter as that? 
ALYSSA (stops) Remember this! (sticks out huge tongue) Her's is even bigger than that. 
She smiles and continues on.  Holden looks back up at the door.  He sticks his own tongue our and sizes it with his fingers. 
EXT TURNPIKE - DAY 
The car sits in traffic. 
INT CAR - DAY 
Holden sighs.  Alyssa plays with the radio. 
ALYSSA You were raised Catholic, right? 
HOLDEN Yeah.  You? 
ALYSSA Baptist. 
HOLDEN Really?  Did you have a strict upbringing? 
ALYSSA Please There was no time to be bad - we were too busy saying 'Jesus'. 
HOLDEN (off game) What?  Do something! 
BANKY (off game) You fucking cock-teaser.  I'll knock your fucking teeth out and pass all over your ass. 
HOLDEN Look at how slow you are.  Christ, you move like a geriatric. 
BANKY (screaming at screen) Fuck!  You Fucking cock-sucker, man! These faggots won't do what I tell them to! 
HOLDEN Oh. It's the controller, right?  It's always the controller. 
BANKY No, it's these... fucking queers on blades that can't accept a fucking pass to save their lives!  What period is this? 
HOLDEN Final sixty of the third. 
BANKY Fuck!  Look at your fucking guys, they... FUCK!!! (whips controller) FUCKING COCK SUCKER, MAN!  I SWEAR TO GOD! 
Banky storms away.  Alyssa looks at Holden, 
HOLDEN Imagine if I'd only beaten him by one instead of thirty. 
INT SKEE-BALL ARCADE - DAY 
Holden feeds a couple dollars into the change machine. Alyssa looks on. 
ALYSSA Explain this again. 
HOLDEN How could you have grown up down the shore and never played skee-ball? What did you do with your youth? 
They head toward the skee-ball runs. 
ALYSSA Stayed out late, smoked pot, screwed around. 
HOLDEN Not your grade school years; your high school years. 
ALYSSA (off skee-ball run) This looks complicated. 
HOLDEN (Inserts coin and pulls lever) The premise is very basic - you roll the ball up the ramp at varying speeds, in an effort to pop it into the score circles.  The higher the score, the more prize tickets you get. 
ALYSSA What do you do with the prize tickets? 
HOLDEN Trade them in for prizes that aren't worth nearly as much as you paid to play the game. 
ALYSSA Then what's the point? 
HOLDEN It's fun. 
ALYSSA And you question my lifestyle. 
HOLDEN Observe. 
Holden rolls the ball.  It pops into a twenty point circle. 
HOLDEN See?  It's just that simple. 
ALYSSA Why not just walk up there and put it in the fifty every time? 
HOLDEN Where's the skill in that? 
ALYSSA Oh, this is a skill?  I'm sorry, I had no idea. 
ALYSSA But you know what? (picks up his face) I have more faith in you than that. (rips her tickets off) Come on - I want my cheap prize. 
INT STUDIO - NIGHT 
Holden enters.  Banky's still playing Sega.  Holden sits next to him. 
HOLDEN (off screen) How bad do you suck! 
BANKY How was your pseudo-date? 
HOLDEN Leave it alone. 
BANKY That chick bugs me. 
HOLDEN (rubs his head; in baby-talk) Aww.  Everyone bugs you. 
BANKY Get off. (off game) Fucking faggot!  Did you see that?! Your dyke courting ass just got me scored on! 
HOLDEN (beat) You know, you should watch that.  If you're going to get all bent out of shape while playing the game, so much so that you need to curse the t.v., try not to gay-bash it, alright. You're nor that kind of guy. (gets up) And don't call her a dyke, alright? She's a lesbian. 
Holden goes to his drawing table and takes off his coat. Banky sits there, shocked.  He puts the controller down and crosses to the drawing table. 
BANKY What the fuck is going on here? 
HOLDEN (pulling out pencil) I'm starting a new page. 
BANKY (smacking pencil away) Not with this shit!  With you.  What the fuck is going on with you and that girl? 
HOLDEN We're friends. 
BANKY She's programming you. 
HOLDEN I beg your pardon?  Programming? 
BANKY Yeah.  And apparently, you don't even realize it.  What does it matter if I refer to her as a dyke, or if I call the Whalers a bunch of faggots in the privacy of my own office, far from the sensitive ears of the rest of the world? 
HOLDEN It's passive/aggressive gay-bashing; and I know you're not really prejudiced at heart.  You should just find some other way to express your anger, is all I'm saying. 
Holden starts drawing.  Banky stares at him.  Then he grabs the pencil out of Holden's hand and shoves him to the side.  He starts drawing something. 
HOLDEN What the fuck are you doing! 
BANKY Bear with me here.  I just want to put you through this little exercise. (drawing feverishly) Okay, now see this?  This is a four way road, okay? 
Banky draws a four-way stop.  He illustrates according to his voice-over. 
BANKY V.O. And dead in the center, is a crisp, new, hundred dollar bill.  Now at the end of each of the streets, are four people, okay?  You following?  Up here, we got a male-affectionate, easy- to-get-along-with, no political agenda lesbian.  Okay?  Now down here, we have a man-hating, angry-as-fuck, agenda-of-rage, bitter dyke.  To this side, we got Santa Claus, right?  And over to this side - the Easter Bunny. 
Banky finishes drawing.  Holden's shaking his head 
BANKY Which one's going to get to the hundred dollar bill first? 
HOLDEN What is this supposed to prove? 
BANKY I'm serious.  This is a serious exercise.  It's like an S.A.T. question.  Which one's going to get to the hundred dollar bill first - the male-friendly lesbian, the man-hating dyke, Santa Claus, or the Easter Bunny? 
HOLDEN (beat; then pissed) The man-hating dyke. 
BANKY Good.  Why? 
ALYSSA Are you an authorized deal-maker in this establishment?  Do you have the power to negotiate. 
CASHIER You wanna haggle over the price of your French Dip? 
ALYSSA I want to haggle over the price of fine art. 
CASHIER What do you mean? 
ALYSSA (pointing OC) There.  By the kitchen.  That painting. 
CASHIER What about it? 
ALYSSA The price tag says seventy five. 
CASHIER So! 
HOLDEN (to Alyssa) Tell me you're kidding! 
ALYSSA I'll give you fifty. 
CASHIER (to OC) Manuel!  Bring, me the Dyksiezski off the wall. (to Alyssa) All my years in the diner business, I've waited for this day - the day when someone wanted to buy one of the pictures. 
ALYSSA (holds out hand) Alyssa Jones.  Pleased to meet you. 
CASHIER You say you want to haggle, but you don't know rule one about haggling, which you just broke: you never give your name.  The name is power, and to give the opponent that piece of you is to give away victory. 
ALYSSA I'm only trying to conduct a transaction.  We're not opponents. 
CASHIER (accepting painting from BUSBOY) Oh, but we are - if you think I'm letting this beautiful piece go for fifty. 
ALYSSA Ah-ha! (to Holden) Now we're haggling. 
24.    INT CAR - NIGHT									24. 
It's drizzling outside.  Holden drives.  Alyssa hugs her painting and pushes her bare feet against the windshield, making footprints. 
HOLDEN I've always wondered what kind of people buy those things.  I can't believe you talked him down to twenty five! 
ALYSSA It was looking shakey when he told me the artist was a blind cripple with a hump-back, but I held my ground. There's no room for sympathy in the buyer's market. 
HOLDEN Where are you going to hang it? 
ALYSSA I'm not.  You are. 
HOLDEN You want me to hang it for you?  You better hope it doesn't get out to the girl-nation that you needed a man to help you hang a picture. 
ALYSSA You're going to hang it in your house. I bought it for you. 
HOLDEN (laughs) Yeah, right. 
ALYSSA (looks at him) I'm serious. 
Holden stares at her. 
HOLDEN Why? 
ALYSSA Because it's captured the moment. It'll be a constant reminder - not just of tonight, but of our introduction, the building of our friendship, everything.  Make no mistake about it my Friend - it's a gift to you, from me, so you'll always remember us. 
Holden stares ahead.  Then he swerves the wheel to the right. 
All four Girls stare at Alyssa, a bit horrified.  She stops painting. 
JANE Oh, Alyssa - no.  Not you. 
TORY You're dating a guy? 
ALYSSA He's not like a typical man.  He's really sweet to me, and we relate so well.  You guys'd love him, really. 
They stare at Alyssa.  Then Dalia gets up. 
DALIA I've gotta go to the store. 
JANE I'll go with. 
They exit.  Alyssa looks to Tory and Nica. 
TORY (pouring wine) Whelp - here's to both of you. (moves the glass to her lips) Another one bites the dust. 
INT HOLDEN'S BEDROOM -NIGHT 
Holden and Alyssa lie in each other's arms, moonlight bathing them.  She smokes. 
HOLDEN Can I ask you something? 
ALYSSA Don't even tell me you want to do it again. 
HOLDEN Why me - you know?  Why now? 
ALYSSA Because you were giving me that look, and I got wet... 
HOLDEN You know what I'm talking about. 
ALYSSA Why not You? 
HOLDEN I'm a guy.  You're attracted to girls. 
ALYSSA I see you've been taking notes. Historically, yes  that's true. 
HOLDEN Then why this? 
ALYSSA I've given that a lot of thought, you know?  I mean, now that I'm being ostracized by my friends, I've had a lot of time to think about all of this.  And what I've come up with is really simple: I came to this on my terms.  I didn't just heed what I was taught, you  know?  Men and women should be together, it's the natural way - that kind of thing.  I'm not with you because of what family, society, life tried to instill in me from day one.  The way the world is - how seldom you meet that one person who gets you... it's so rare.   My parents didn't really have it.  There was no example set for me in the world of male/female relation ships.  And to cut oneself off from finding that person - to immediately half your options by eliminating the possibility of finding that one person within your own gender... that just seemed stupid. So I didn't.  And by leaving my options open, I was branded 'gay', which to me was no big deal - labels are labels, you know?  They define what you do, not who you are, I guess. But 		then you come along.  You - the one least likely; I mean, you were a guy. 
HOLDEN Still am. 
ALYSSA And while I was falling for you, I put a ceiling on that, because you were a guy. Until I remembered why I opened the door to women in the first place - to not limit the likelihood of finding that one person who'd compliment me so completely.  And so here we are, I was thorough when I looked for you, and I feel justified lying in your arms - because I got here on my terms, and have no question that there was someplace I didn't look.  And that makes all the difference. 
HOLDEN (beat) Shit. 
ALYSSA What? 
HOLDEN Well, you took the luster our of it. 
ALYSSA What luster? 
HOLDEN (joking - in case you didn't get it) Of how I brought you back from the other side.  How all you needed was the right man to turn you around. 
ALYSSA You're not the right man. (kisses him) You're just the one. 
She snuggles into him and closes her eyes.  Holden stares at the ceiling. 
BANKY That's what she says.  But I say her on her hands and knees getting filled out like an application constitutes 'being with a guy'. 
HOLDEN He's pulling your chain.  And the fact that you even bought it for a second makes you look like an idiot. 
BANKY I'm getting your back, asshole! People don't forget shit like 'Finger Cuffs'.  And if it got out that she's queer as well, how do you think it's going to make you look? 
HOLDEN I give a shit what people think. 
BANKY Alright, forget about that; what if she's carrying a disease?  That was just one story - what if there's more? 
HOLDEN (grabs his coat) You're such a fucking asshole. 
BANKY What?  Oh, it's not possible that she's all crudded up?  Cohee I can vouch for as clean - the dude never got laid in high school.  But Derris is an arch fucking bush-man!  Name me one chick in our senior class that Rick Derris didn't nail, for Christ's sake! 
HOLDEN Would you let this go?  I'm telling you - she's never even been with a guy, let alone those two zeroes. 
BANKY And I'm telling you, the bitch could be a bigger fucking germ farm than that monkey in 'Outbreak'! 
Holden grabs Banky and pins him against the wall. 
HOLDEN Give it a rest!  Do you hear me?!  I'm tired of this shit!  She's my goddamn girlfriend, do you understand?!  Show her a little fucking respect! And if you ever even so much as mention that Alyssa looks a little peaked from now on, I'll put your fucking teeth down your throat! 
He releases Banky.  Banky brushes himself off. 
BANKY Maybe I'll put your fucking teeth down your throat. 
HOLDEN (walking out) Not bloody Likely. 
Banky runs to the open door. 
BANKY (calling after him) I've been working out you know! (no response) You better be ready to make that M-TV deal! 
The downstairs door slams.  Banky makes a muscle, then feels it. 
INT TOWER RECORDS - DAY 
Holden and Hooper peruse laser discs. 
HOOPER Where's that bitch partner of your's been? 
HOLDEN Sulking.  He's having a real problem with this Alyssa thing. 
HOOPER I think it's more like Banky's having a problem with all things not hetero right about now.  And I'm just another paradigm of said aberration. 
HOLDEN Banky does not hate gays, you know that. 
HOOPER But I do think he is a bit homophobic. And this latest episode between you and Ms. Thing has tapped into that. In his warped perception, he lost you to the dark side - which is she. 
HOLDEN You make it sound like me and him were dating. 
HOOPER Don't kid yourself - that boy loves you in a way that he's not ready to deal with. 
HOLDEN (beat) He's been digging up dirt on Alyssa. 
HOOPER And just what has Mister Angela Lansbury uncovered about your lady fair? 
HOLDEN He heard some bullshit story that she took on two guys. 
HOOPER Really?  Well then he's barking up the wrong we if he wants to split you up, isn't he?  He's not going to make you see the error of your ways by pointing out how truly gay she's not (holds up a disc) This one? 
INT RINK LOBBY / EXT PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
Alyssa marches quickly, pulling on her coat.  Holden catches up to her.  We track with them our into the parking lot. 
HOLDEN So it's true?! 
ALYSSA Yes Holden!  In fact, everything you heard or dug up on me was probably true!  Yeah, I took on two guys at once!  You want to hear some gems you might not have unearthed - I took a twenty six year old guy to my senior prom, and then left halfway through to have sex with him and Gwen Turner in the back of a limo!  And the girl who got caught in the shower with Miss Moffit, the gym teacher?  That was me! Or how about in college, when I let Shannon Hamilton videotape us having sex - only to find out the next day that he broadcast it on the campus cable station?!  They're all true - those and so many more!  Didn't you know?  I'm the queen of urban legend! 
HOLDEN How the hell could you do those things?! 
ALYSSA Easily!  Some of it I did out of stupidity, some of it I did out of what I thought was love, but - good or bad - they were my choices, and I'm not making apologies for them now - not to you or anyone!  And how dare you try to lay a guilt trip on me about it - in public, no less!  Who the fuck do you think you are, you judgemental prick?! 
HOLDEN How am I supposed to feel about all of this? 
ALYSSA How are you supposed to feel about it? Feel what ever the fuck you want about it!  The only thing that really matters is how you feel about me. 
HOLDEN I don't know how I feel about you now. 
ALYSSA Why?  Because I had some sex? 
HOLDEN Some sex? 
ALYSSA Yes, Holden - that's all it was: some sex!  Most of it stupid high school sex, for Christ's sake!  Like you never had sex in high school! 
HOLDEN There's a world of fucking difference between typical high school sex and two guys at once!  They fucking used you? 
ALYSSA I used them!  You don't think I would've let it happen if I hadn't wanted it to, do you?!  I was an experimental girl, for Christ's sake! Maybe you knew early on that your track was from point 'a' to 'b' - but unlike you I wasn't given a fucking map at birth, so I tried it all!  That is until we - that's you and I - got together, and suddenly, I was sated. Can't you take some fucking comfort in that?  You turned out to be all I was ever looking for - the missing piece in the big fucking puzzle! (tries to calm down) Look I'm sorry I let you believe that you were the only guy I'd ever been with.  I should've been more honest. But it seemed to make you feel special in a way that me telling you over and over again how incredible you are would never get across. 
She touches his face.  He pulls back.  She stares at him, hurt and pissed. 
ALYSSA Do you mean to tell me that - while you have zero problem with me sleeping with half the women in New York City - you have some sort of half-assed, mealy-mouthed objection to pubescent antics, that took place almost ten years ago?  What the fuck is your problem?!? 
Holden's eyes are downcast.  Alyssa waits for a response. 
HOLDEN I want us to be something that we can't. 
ALYSSA And what's that? 
HOLDEN (beat) A normal couple. 
Holden skulks off.  Alyssa stares after him, and then starts kicking and punching a car beside her, finally slumping to the ground.  She cries. 
INT STUDIO - DUSK 
Holden sits on the couch, alone in the dark.  The door opens and Banky enters.  He stands there, sizing up Holden's mood. 
BANKY The girl? 
Holden nods.  Banky nods back.  He stands there for a beat.  Then he sits beside Holden.  He opens his arms. Holden shifts into his friend's embrace and begins crying on his shoulder.  Banky pats his back.  Pull back on a man in pain and the comfort of a friend. 
INT DINER - NIGHT 
Holden sits alone at a booth.  He stirs his iced tea. 
OC VOICE Yo, look at this morose mother fucker here.. 
Holden looks up.  JAY and SILENT BOB stand above him. 
JAY Smells like somebody shit in his cereal. 
Holden rubs his eyes. 
JAY You're dating Finger Cuffs?  Wait a minute I thought she was all gay and shit! 
HOLDEN She is.  Or was.  I don't know. 
The Waitress returns with the order. 
JAY And you go out with her?  Shit, man - you're a lucky dog.  She bring other chicks to bed with you, get a little of that filet o' fish sammich going on? 
The Waitress stares wide-eyed and offended at Jay. 
JAY (off the Waitress' look) Yeah - you know what I'm talking about, baby. (Waitress  leaves;  to Holden) So - four tits, or what? 
HOLDEN It's not like that. 
JAY Well what's it like then? 
HOLDEN Right now? (beat) I don't know.  I love her.  But she has a past 
JAY I'll say.  Stuffin' two guys, eating chicks out.  Yo - I heard one time, she had this dog... 
HOLDEN Eat your fucking bagel already! 
JAY (to Silent Bob) Look at this touchy mother fucker right here. (to Holden) So, if you're all in love with her, what's the problem? 
HOLDEN The problem is shit like that.  It was one thing when it was just girls - that was weird enough.  But now you throw guys into the mix - two guys at once, no less.  All that experience...What am I supposed to think? 
JAY You think good; because now she'll be all true blue and shit.  The girl's tasted life, yo.  Now she's settlin' for your boring, funny-book-makin' ass. 
HOLDEN Settling.  That's comforting, Jay. Thanks. 
JAY That's what I'm here for. 
HOLDEN I'm lust having a problem with all of it I can't get it out of my head these visuals of her doing all this shit. And I don't know why I can't let it go.  Because I'm crazy about her, you know?  I look at this girl, I see the future.  I see kids.  I see grand- kids. 
JAY You're scaring me. 
HOLDEN I'm scaring myself.  Because I think so much of her,  and then I can't get over shit like 'Finger Cuffs'. (shakes his head) I don't know what I'm doing. 
Holden looks out the window.  Jay continues to roll his joint.  There's silence. Then... 
BOB You're chasing Amy. 
Holden's head snaps forward.  He stares, wide-eyed at Silent Bob. 
HOLDEN What..what did you say? 
BOB You're chasing Amy. 
Holden stares, shocked.  He looks to Jay, who's still rolling his joint. 
JAY What do you look so shocked for?  He does this all the time.  Fat bastard thinks just because he never says anything, that it'll have some huge impact when he does open his fucking mouth. 
BOB Why don't you shut up?  Jesus!  Always yap, yap, yapping all the time.  Give me a fucking headache. (to Holden) I went through something like what you're going through.  Years ago. Same kind of thing with a girl named Amy. 
JAY When? 
BOB A couple of years ago. 
Banky sits at his own signing table.  Behind him hangs a banner that reads 'BANKY EDWARDS - CREATOR Of BABY DAVE'. A small line is formed in front of him.  He talks with a FAN. 
FAN Do you know how much it's going for these days?  One ten.  You signing it will push that up even higher, 
BANKY If you sell it, I want a kickback (starts signing) 
FAN I don't know if this is true, but I heard once that there was going to be an animated series. 
BANKY There was going to be 
FAN What happened! 
BANKY (off comic) You're looking at it.  No Chronic - no cartoon 
FAN That sucks man.  That would've been awesome. 
BANKY Tell me about it 
FAN Is that what happened to you and Holden McNeil?  You got into a fight over the rights or something? 
BANKY It was a little more involved than that. 
FAN Whatever happened to him? 
BANKY He quit the biz.  I guess. 
FAN You guys don't talk anymore? 
BANKY (looks OC) No.  Not really. 
Banky locks eyes with someone OC.  His expression softens. 
Holden leans against a wall on the far side of the room. He smiles at Banky.  Banky smiles back, and sort of nods. 
Holden holds up a copy of Banky's new solo comic.  He points to it and gives a thumbs up. 
OC FAN Probably shouldn't have killed off Chronic. 
Banky smiles to OC. 
BANKY Guess not.  Some doors just shouldn't be opened. 
Banky looks in another direction, OC.  He looks at Holden and points to it.   Holden looks in the same direction, and then looks back at Banky and nods. 
OC FAN You don't need that guy, anyway.  You do great stuff without him. 
Banky looks at Holden for a beat.  Then he brings his pointer fingers together,  mimicing Holden's 'shared moment' gesture. 
Holden shrugs slightly, then crosses his fingers - as if to say 'hopefully'. 
OC FAN You were just carrying that guy, anyway. 
Banky sort of smiles at the OC Holden.  Then he offers his own thumbs up - as to say 'good luck'. 
BANKY (to fan, still looking OC) You're so right. 
Holden smiles back, nods 'bye', and walks off. 
OC FAN Well, keep up the good work, man. Love them dick jokes.  Love 'em.  See ya. 
