CHERRY FALLS SCREENPLAY BY KEN SELDEN FIRST DRAFT 
FEBRUARY 14, 1998 
FADE IN: 
EXT.  TOWN - NIGHT 
The hanging sign says 'Entering Cherry Falls, Ohio' 
We see Cherry Falls - A small town in rural Northeastern Ohio. This is Norman Rockwell land, red barns on dirt roads, a square in the center of town. But things are hidden here. The barns are locked, the shades are drawn. 
Dissolve to: 
EXT.  LOVER'S LANE 
A romantic turn-off used exclusively for parking. A river gushes by. Crickets chirp. The trees blow in the autumn wind. A single car sits on the lonely road. The muffled sound of a young couple making out drifts through the streamed up windows. 
INT.  CAR 
A teenage boy's hand is under a teenage girl's shirt, gently massaging her breast. He pulls his hand out from under her shirt and places it on her bare knee. 
As he starts to slide his hand up her leg, she grabs his hand and gently pulls it away. She places it back on her breast, sliding it under her shirt. 
We pull back. STACY and ROD, two healthy sixteen year olds, are passionately making out in the proverbial back seat of a big American car. 
Rod smiles seductively, kisses Stacy, and places his hand back on her knee. Once again, she stops him, this time just squeezing his hand tightly. 
STACY No. 
He doesn't give up easy. He playfully wrestles his hand free and slides it under her skirt. She grabs his hand again. 
STACY I said no. 
ROD But you don't really mean it. 
He struggles to free his hand. 
STACY Yes I do. Keep it in your pants Rod. 
He gives up, aggravated. 
ROD Maybe it won't stay in. 
STACY Maybe you better just drive me home. 
He starts the car, glares at her for a second, then turns it off. 
ROD Let me just ask you a serious question first. 
STACY What? 
ROD Aren't you worried you could die a virgin? 
STACY (sarcastically) Yeah. I'm extremely worried about that. It's right up there with global warming. 
ROD On our way home, a drunken driver could hit us head on and send us flying through the windshield. Terminate us instantly. We'd never experience what it means to make love. 
STACY If sheep don't count. 
ROD That wasn't me ... 
STACY I know. I'm kidding you. Chill out. 
ROD Well I'm trying to be real here and you're mocking me. 
STACY (softening) I'm sorry, but you're not going to die a virgin Rod. 
EXT.  LOVER'S LANE 
There is another car around the bend, hidden from sight. It's an old beat up Imperial from the late sixties. Someone is watching them. It's probably a psychopath. 
INT.  ROD'S CAR 
Rod leans in and starts kissing Stacy again. 
ROD(cont.) I don't wanna take that chance. I want my first time to be with you. 
She kisses him back. He slides his hand under her skirt again. 
STACY Stop it. 
He doesn't. STACY Rod! 
ROD (exasperated) You're being unfair. 
STACY Unfair?! 
EXT.  STACY'S 
Rod gets out of the car and cautiously moves to the edge of the dark woods. 
EXT.  WOODS 
Rod's POV - The woods are pitch black. 
ROD Stacy? 
STACY(O.C.) (struggling, in the distance) ROD! 
EXT.  WOODS 
The killer kicks Stacy in the side, instantly shutting her up. He gags her and ties her to a tree trunk. She struggles, but she's no match for the killer. 
INT.  CAR 
Rod grabs his flashlight from the glove compartment. 
EXT.  WOODS 
Rod's flashlight beam frantically cuts through the woods. 
Rod charges through the woods, desperately looking for any sign of Stacy. 
EXT.  WOODS 
Stacy's right hand is raised above her head and placed, palm out, against a tree trunk. 
EXT.  WOODS 
Rod searches for Stacy, his flashlight jaggedly cutting the darkness. 
EXT.  WOODS 
The huge nail, extremely sharp and jagged, is placed in the center of Stacy's outstretched palm. 
The hammer is pulled back, aimed at the head of the nail. 
EXT. WOODS 
Rod stops and frantically looks around, knowing he's fighting a losing battle. 
ROD Stacy?! 
EXT.  WOODS 
The hammer descends on the nail. 
Stacy screams out in pain, even through the gag, as he hand is nailed to the tree. 
EXT.  WOODS 
Rod hears her muffled cry and runs toward the sound. 
Stacy's left hand is now placed up against a different tree. 
Another nail is readied. 
Stacy tries to free her nailed hand but it's useless. She goes into shock. 
Rod's flashlight continues to cut through the night. His feet trample fallen branches. Suddenly, he stops. He's found her. 
Stacy is stretched out between two trees, gagged, one hand nailed to each tree. She almost looks crucified. 
Rod, starts toward her, not sure what to do. He looks into Stacy's terrified eyes. She's looking behind him. 
Rod quickly turns around but he's too late. 
A knife comes plunging down toward Rod's chest. 
Stacy frantically tries to free herself but she only succeeds in ripping her palms on the nails. 
Rod falls to his knees, blood streaming from his chest and mouth. 
Stacy can't even react anymore, she's so horrified. 
The killer's hand rips open Stacy's shirt and feels her soft ripe stomach. 
Stacy looks down, terrified of what the killer has planned. 
A small but extremely sharp razor attached to the end of a pencil is placed up against Stacy's bare stomach. The killer's hand grips it like it's an ordinary pencil. 
Stacy's eyes grow abnormally wide as the carving starts. She's never experienced such pain. 
Blood drips to the ground. 
JODY Dad ! Most of my friends can stay out until 11 on school nights and 1 on weekends! 
BRENT They're not all the sheriff's daughter. Goodnight. 
He leaves. Jody is furious. She lies down on the bed to stew. She might at well have stayed out. The phone in the hallway rings. She leaps up. 
INT.  HALLWAY 
Jody runs up to the phone but waits for it to ring a second time before picking it up. She crosses her fingers, praying it's Kenny. 
JODY Hello. (beat) One second. (to her dad) Hey Adolph, it's the station! 
Brent comes out and picks up the phone as Jody heads back to her room, disappointed. 
INT.  BEDROOM 
Jody flops on the bed. 
BRENT(O.C.) Hello. (beat) What? 
INT.  HALLWAY 
Brent it shocked. 
BRENT Where? 
MARGE MARKEN, Jody's mother, comes out of the bedroom, sensing something terrible has happened. Marge is a couple of years older than Brent. She's a bit lifeless, a pretty woman who's whole life is her daughter and a bottle of Peachtree Schnapps. 
BRENT(CONT'D) I'm on my way. 
INT.  JODY'S 
Jody sits up on her bed, also sensing something big has happened. 
INT.  HALLWAY 
Brent buttons up his shirt. 
MARGE What happened? 
BRENT Two kids were found mutilated in the woods. Lock the door after me. 
Brent grabs his gun belt and heads down the stairs. 
Jody appears. She and her mom share a concerned glance. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. STACY'S HOUSE 
Brent pulls up. A lot of official cars are already there. 
EXT. WOODS 
A trail of flares eerily light up the woods, leading to the crime scene. 
EXT.  WOODS 
The murder sit. Police cameras flash. Stacy is still nailed to the tree. Rod is dead on the ground below her in a puddle of his own blood. 
Brent walks up, immediately repulsed by the gruesome sight. His deputy, JACK WEBBER, sidles up next to him. 
DEPUTY Her parents reported her missing about an hour ago. 
A flash bulb momentarily lights up the scene. Brent pulls out his flashlight to better survey the carnage. 
He starts on Rod, throat slit, chest gutted. He then moves to Stacy, looking at one nailed hand, then the other. 
BRENT What kind of a person wakes up in the morning and says to themselves, 'Think I'll nail a sixteen year old girl to a tree today'? 
DEPUTY The same type that decides to carve into her stomach. 
Brent finally shines the flashlight beam on Stacy's stomach. Carved into her flesh is the word 'VIRGIN'. 
CUT TO: 
MONTAGE 
High school kids are getting ready for school. 
Body parts are being covered. Pants and stocking are pulled up over bare teenage legs. 
Shirts and bras cover bare teenage chests. 
Zippers are pulled tight. Buttons are buttoned. 
The school bell rings and the kids arrive in cars, on bikes, walking. 
JODY I will. Is that all? 
TOM Could you tell Mr. Marliston we'd like to see him. 
JODY SURE. 
She leaves. 
BRENT Why'd you send for Lenny Marliston? 
TOM The kids adore him. They confide in him. His patchouli reeking rear might know if Stacy and Rod were really virgins. Why didn't you ask Jody that? 
BRENT She's my daughter, Tom. 
TOM So? 
BRENT So you just don't point blank ask your teenage daughter about sex. 
TOM Why not? You worried you might find out how much she actually knows? 
Brent gives Tom a 'keep your cynical shit off my daughter' look. 
LEONARD You rang? 
TOM Come in Leonard. Have you met Brent Marken? 
LEONARD No but I've always wanted to. 
He shakes his hand firmly. 
BRENT Nice to meet you too. My daughter speaks highly of you. 
Leonard examines Brent's face carefully. Brent is a little taken aback by his intensity. 
LEONARD We have the same color eyes. 
BRENT I guess we do. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CAFTERIA 
MARK SHALE, a seventeen year old, rail thin pothead is sitting at a table in the crowded cafeteria eating lunch. The place is a zoo. CINDY, a cute, mini-skirted brunette, and BEN,  a frizzy-haired, tattooed, pierced, punk- rocker, are sitting with him. 
Jody is standing at the door with her best friend SANDY, looking for a place to sit. Sandy is thin and a little underdeveloped for her age. She is wearing very little make-up, a baggy shirt and baggy jeans. Although she looks much more tomboyish than Jody and a year or two younger, she is still quite cute and curvy, just lacking a  bit in self-confidence when it comes to boys. Sandy is staring at Mark. 
JODY Go sit next to him. 
SANDY Who? 
JODY Mark Shale. 
SANDY Why? 
JODY Don't you want to talk to him? You watch him eat everyday. 
SANDY I don't watch him eat everyday. 
JODY You stare at him non-stop, like every lunch. Like this. Like most people stare at car accidents. 
Jody imitates Sandy. 
SANDY The seat behind him is open. Come on, I can eavesdrop too. 
JODY You eventually have to talk to him. 
SANDY Why? All my mom and dad ever do is watch each other eat and they've been married for twenty years. 
Cindy sees Jody approaching and motions her over. 
CINDY Jody! 
Jody starts toward her table. 
SANDY No! That's his table. 
JODY You're going to look really amoebic splitting off from me now. 
The other three kids look up as Jody sits don. 
Sandy has no choice but to sit down next to Mark. She immediately freezes up. 
CINDY Did your dad question you this morning? 
JODY Just a little. 
BEN Did he ask you if Stacy and Rod has ever exchanged bodily fluids? 
INT.  RESTAURANT 
Annette's mom pushes the man's hand under her dress. 
INT.  HOUSE 
Annette's throat touches the glass. She's all but lost. 
INT.  RESTAURANT 
Annette's mom lets out a huge  laugh, knocking over her red win, soaking the white tablecloth in red. 
INT.  HOUSE 
Annette's eyes roll up into her head. 
Annette, half alive is dragged out the window. 
Out come the hammer and nails. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  HOUSE 
Annette's parents pull into the driveway: 
They are still giggling. It's been a great night. They are sauced. 
INT.  LIVING ROOM 
Annette's parents come inside. 
MOTHER Annette. We're home. 
She notices a red spot on the carpet and leans over to inspect it. 
INT.  HALLWAY 
Annette's mom starts down the hallway, noticing the trail of blood leading to Annette's door, realizing something is wrong. 
MOTHER (concerned) Annette? 
She tugs at Annette's door. 
INT.  BEDROOM 
The door is still barricaded. 
EXT.  CORRIDOR 
Her mother frantically tugs at the door. Her dad appears. 
MOTHER Annette!! 
Her dad lifts his foot and starts kicking at the door. 
It begins to splinter. 
INT.  BEDROOM 
They break through. Annette's dad pushes the dresser out of the way and they barge in. 
The room seems to be empty except the window has been broken and blood's splattered around it. 
MOTHER Annette? 
She notices the shade to the other window has been drawn and is flapping oddly, caught on something. 
She walks over, frightened, gathers her nerve, then pulls the shade up. 
Annette has been nailed to the outside of the house, her dead eyes looking in. 
'VIRGIN' is carved deeply in her forehead. 
Her mother screams. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HOUSE 
COP Cars are everywhere. 
INT.  BEDROOM 
Brent is staring at the word 'VIRGIN', carved into Annette's forehead. He's really worried, He's figured out that his town is under siege. 
INT.  LIVING ROOM 
BRENT No. Let her get at least one more peacefully night's sleep. 
EXT.  CHERRY FALLS 
It's a new day. As the kids arrive at school, rumors are flying. Everyone is a little more on edge. The same tribes exist but kids are starting to glance and listen to kids from other tribes. The social structure is starting to fray. 
INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE 
Brent is upset, confused. 
BRENT If I'd gone public with this yesterday Annette Michaels might be alive today. 
TOM Oh GOD Brent, is there anything you don't feel guilty about? 
BRENT is there anything you do? 
TOM Focus on the present. You always want to change the past. Let's figure out what you are going to tell the parents today, not what you should told them yesterday. 
BRENT I'm going to tell them everything I know. I'm calling a town meeting for eight p.m. 
TOM You tell these people someone is out there killing virgins and we're going to have a goddamn fuckfest on our hands. 
BRENT Better than a pile of dead teenagers. 
EXT.  TOWN HALL 
The town bell rings in the steeple. It's eight o'clock. 
EXT.  MAIN STREET 
The shops close down. All the townsfolk head toward the assembly hall. 
EXT.  SCHOOL 
The parents arrive. They are all concerned. They've all heard rumors by now. They hurry into the school, whispering to one another. 
INT.  AUDITORIUM 
The parents are seated, whispering, buzzing. Brent walks up to the podium. He's very nervous as he looks out at the crowd, realizing he's going to really, really upset them. He takes a deep breath. 
BRENT I think you all know why I CALLED THIS Town meeting. In the last two days, three of our children have been murdered and it appears that we have now established a common link between the killings. 
The crowd grows still. Everyone is interested in this information. Brent pauses. 
FATHER 1 Well, what is it? 
BRENT All three of the victims attended our public high school and all three were or appear to have been...um...virgins. 
There is a ripple of confusion that runs through the auditorium. 
MOTHER 1 So? 
MOTHER 2 (very concerned) You're almost positive that's who this monster is targeting? 
MOTHER 1 Virgins? 
BRENT We found the word 'virgin' written at both crime scenes. 
FATHER 1 Why didn't you tell us this yesterday? 
BRENT We didn't think this was a serial killer. We thought it was an isolated incident. 
This is all very upsetting to everyone. 
MOTHER 3 Are you close to an arrest? 
BRENT I can't say we are. 
FATHER 2 What are we supposed to do? 
BRENT What do you mean? 
MOTHER 2 What are we supposed to tell our kids? 
FATHER 2 To go out and get laid if they wanna feel safe? 
BRENT I think that's' up to each and everyone of you. 
FATHER 3 I can't lock my daughter in the basement. 
FATHER 2 I wouldn't worry about it Victor. 
A few other parents laugh. 
FATHER 3 What's that supposed to mean? 
FATHER 2 Nothing. 
JODY Yes? 
KILLER(O.C.) Are you Jody? 
Once again, a woman's voice. 
JODY Yeah. 
KILLER(O.C.) I'm Kenny's Aunt Lisa. 
JODY Kenny's aunt? 
KILLER(O.C.) Yes. He asked me to come over and talk to you. 
Jody senses something is off. 
JODY On what side of the family? 
KILLER(O.C.) His mother's side. 
JODY His mother's an only child. 
Jody suddenly gets it and tries to slam the door closed but the killer is too fast, sliding a hand and foot in, pushing her way into the house. 
Jody fights to push the door shut but she can't. The killer is stronger. The killer's hand gropes for the lock latch. 
Jody frantically looks around for a weapon and spots an electric screwdriver sitting in the back pantry. She grabs for the screwdriver with one hand as the killer pushes harder. 
Jody drills the killer's elbow. 
The killer screams and lets go. Jody slams the door shut, double locking it. 
INT.  FRONT HALLWAY 
Jody runs to the front hall and double locks the front door. 
INT.  LIVING ROOM 
Jody picks up a phone but it's dead downstairs too. She looks around. 
EXT.  HOUSE 
She notices a shadow move across the back window. The killer hasn't left. The killer seems to be following her. 
INT.  FRONT HALL CLOSET 
Jody grabs a baseball bat from the front hall closet. The killer's shadow appears outside. 
INT.  KITCHEN 
Jody runs into the kitchen, grabs a knife. The window above her breaks. The killer is right outside. 
INT.  DINING ROOM 
Jody runs into the dining room, not sure where to go. Suddenly the window breaks there. The killer is stalking her from the outside. 
INT.  HOUSE - MONTAGE 
THE HOUSE is under siege and Jody is trapped in it. She runs from room to room, turning the lights out but windows break wherever she goes. It's terrifying. 
INT.  FOYER 
Suddenly there is a silence. Jody stops running. She realizes that the killer must be climbing in somewhere. Jody isn't sure what to do. 
She hears something in the family room. 
INT.  FAMILY ROOM 
Jody enters. She sees the killer's shadow cross the window. She runs out. 
INT.  HALLWAY 
Jody creeps through the dark house, unsure where to go. 
INT.  DEN 
Jody creeps back into the den. The killer doesn't seem to be there either. 
The window is broken. The curtains flap in the breeze. She moves toward it, wondering whether it's safe to climb out. She looks in the mirror. 
In the mirror, Jody can see the killer's shoes peeking out from under the drapes. The killer's in the room. The drapes start to move. 
Jody turns around and swings the bat, hitting the killer squarely in the head, sending her to the ground, pulling the drapes down. 
INT.  HOUSE 
Jody tears for the front door. 
Jody looks back down at her bloody leg. There is a 'V' carved into it. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  HOUSE 
Later that night. Police cars are lined up outside the house. 
INT.  HOUSE 
Police are scouring the house. Jody is trying to sup some hot chocolate but her hands are still shaking. 
JODY It was a she. 
BRENT Are you sure? 
JODY She said she was Kenny's aunt Lisa. 
Her mom comes in with a bottle of cognac, ready to pour a little into Jody's cup. 
BRENT What are you doing? 
MARGE This will relax her. 
BRENT She's underage. 
Brent motions towards the cops, his co-workers, who are scurrying around the house. Mom gives Brent a dirty look and pours just a spot into Jody's glass. Sandy enters. She sees Jody and runs to her. 
SANDY Oh my god. ARE YOU OK? 
Jody breaks into tears. They hug. 
JODY Someone tried to kill me. 
SANDY The phone just went dead. I called the police and ran right over as fast as I could. 
Sandy is really terrified too. 
Dissolve to: 
EXT.  CHERRY FALLS 
Another morning in CHERRY FALLS. The town may look peaceful but it isn't. 
INT.  SANDY'S BATHROOM 
Sandy is getting dressed in her usual manner but he hand is shaking. She's still terrified. She looks at herself in the mirror and decides to make a change. 
Lipstick goes on. mascara and eyeliner follow. 
Sandy examines herself in the mirror. She's all made-up. SHE USUALLY wears a tenth as much. 
INT.  SANDY'S BEDROOM 
Sandy slides into a slightly provocative dress. She looks much hotter than she did when we first met her. 
INT.  STAIRCASE 
Sandy starts down the stairs. She stops to check out where her mother is. 
INT.  KITCHEN 
SANDY'S MOTHER is making breakfast. 
INT.  STAIRCASE 
Sandy hurries downstairs, grabs her coat and heads out the door, hoping her mom won't notice how she's dressed. 
Her mom hears her and catches a glimpse of her new outfit. 
MOTHER You're wearing a skirt? 
Sandy doesn't want to get into it. She charges right out the door. 
SANDY Bye mom. 
EXT.  SANDY'S HOUSE 
Sandy goes tearing up the street as her mother opens the door after her. MOTHER SANDY?! 
No way is Sandy turning around. 
EXT.  SCHOOL 
The kids arrive at School. Everyone is freaked. The word spreads fast about Jody's attack. Many of the kids, like Sandy, have worn a little extra make-up or a little tighter jeans. There's a sexual electricity everywhere mixed in with a lot of fear. 
The normal tribes are disbanding. What are forming in their place are sexual tribes. Today, at the high school, sexual history bands kids together. Not aesthetics, popularity, or wealth. Punkers chat with nerds, cheerleaders with potheads. 
JODY Who is she Daddy? 
BRENT Never mind darling. You go back to school. I don't want you missing anymore classes today. 
He picks up the picture and heads quickly into his own office. Jody watches through his window, sensing he's very, very upset. 
INT.  OFFICE 
Brent picks up the phone and quickly dials a number. 
INT.  MAIN ROOM 
Jody has never seen her dad like this. She quietly picks up the phone and listens in. 
Her dad is talking to the principal, Tom Sisler. 
BRENT IT'S LISA SHERMAN. But she still looks like we're eighteen. 
TOM (on phone) That's impossible. 
BRENT (growing frantic) I swear to God. It's her. She told Jody she was Kenny's 'AUNT LISA'. I'm getting this sickly feeling... 
TOM Calm down Brent. 
INT.  OFFICE 
Brent looks out and sees that JODY is on the phone, eavesdropping. 
BRENT I'll call you right back. 
INT.  MAIN ROOM 
Jody, busted, hangs up. 
Brent comes storming out. HER FATHER is livid. SHE'S NEVER SEEN HIM SO ANGRY AND UPTIGHT. 
BRENT You were eavesdropping. 
JODY (a little scared) No I wasn't. 
BRENT What did you hear? 
JODY Nothing. I just picked up the phone to say goodbye to you. You didn't say goodbye. 
BRENT Ok. Goodbye. Now get back to school. 
She nods and heads out, freaked. Her father's never treated her this harshly before. 
EXT.  HIGH SCHOOL 
As Jody approaches the high school, she's still on the edge, given the attack of the night before as well as he dad's reaction to the picture. She hears a moan coming from behind some bushes. She stops and notices a Girl's shoe sticking out from under the bush. Worried it might be someone badly hurt, she cautiously starts toward it. Suddenly a couple of more feet pop out. Jody jumps back, frightened, but then realizes that it's just a  couple of her classmates having sex in the bushes. 
Jody heads toward the main school entrance. She starts noticing a lot of kids are outside, a few more hidden from sight, having sex. Something's up. 
INT.  HIGH SCHOOL 
Jody opens her locker. Sandy comes running up to her, very excited. 
SANDY You ok? 
JODY (noticing Sandy's attire) FINE. Are you? 
SANDY Hurricane Hormone. it's flattened the whole school. Guess what? 
JODY What? 
SANDY (whispering) Mark invited me to the party. 
JODY What party? 
SANDY Shh. Ben's party. Tonight. Haven't you heard? 
JODY No. 
Sandy notices that a teacher is nearby. Sandy pulls Jody into a stairwell. 
INT.  STAIRWELL 
Jody is now really intrigued. 
SANDY (whispering) You can't tell your parents. 
JODY Ok. 
SANDY Especially not your dad. 
JODY I won't. 
They notice a group of kids huddled around a car. 
HOMELY GIRL 1 What's that? 
They walk up. 
'VIRGIN' has been written in blood on one of the windshields.  A mutilated boy looks out of the driver's window of the car.  The girl's faces go white. IT'S ANOTHER BODY! 
More and more kids gather around the murder site. The kids are all freaked, giving each other the eye. No one wants to be next. 
All of a sudden the body moves, screaming to the heavens, freaking all the kids out. The dead body leaps out of the car and runs away as other kids and teachers run over. Everyone heard the scream. 
Homely girl 2 whispers to her friend. 
HOMELY GIRL 2 (whispering) Ok. Pick me up at seven. 
INT.  CORRIDOR 
Chaos has taken over the school. Hardly anyone is still going to classes. 
Kenny is standing in the hallway, looking for Jody. He knows her class schedule and that she'll be passing by. 
Jody appears from her classroom. She starts toward Kenny, at first not noticing him. 
Jody looks up and she sees him. She stops. She knows what he's there to talk to her about. He runs over to her. 
KENNY (very concerned) Are you O.K.? 
JODY I'm fine. 
KENNY I heard you got attacked. 
JODY I did. 
KENNY I was worried about you. Did you hear about the bash? 
JODY Yeah. I think it's really sick. 
KENNY Why? 
JODY Three of our classmates are dead. That's not really the occasion for a party. 
KENNY Nobody wants to be the fourth. Please go with me. 
JODY Did Sharon say no? 
KENNY You know I want to go with you. 
JODY I'm so flattered but I can't. I'm grounded. 
KENNY Everyone's grounded. There's a killer on the loose. 
JODY No I'm really grounded. When I got in late the other night, my father was waiting up for me. 
He grabs her passionately. 
KENNY If you don't want to go with me just say so. Say 'Kenny, I DON'T WANT TO MAKE LOVE TO YOU' but don't use your dad as an excuse. I'm so sick of it. 
JODY I'm not using him as an excuse. 
OF COURSE SHE IS. 
KENNY Yes you are. You always do. It's why we broke up. You always hide behind him. 
JODY I do not. 
KENNY I feel like I NEED YOU DAD'S permission just to kiss you. Jody, it's time to assert yourself To be a big girl. An individual. I'm going to this party tonight. Jimmy's my ride. Come over to my house after school. We'll go together. 
JODY I have to go home after school. I have something really important I have to ask my mom. 
KENNY They're not picking me up until six. 
JODY I'll think about it. 
KENNY Yes! 
He kisses her full throttle. She's into it. She smiles at him as he darts off. She's happy but scared. She's got her guy back, at least for the moment. 
INT.  SCHOOL 
The clock strikes three. The bell rings. 
EXT.  SCHOOL 
Kids charge out, ready for a memorable evening. 
INT.  JODY'S HOUSE 
BRENT No. I'll handle this. 
INT. STATION 
Brent and the deputy head into the main station area. Brent grabs his gun. The DESK SERGEANT is on the phone. 
DESK SERGEANT Sir, we're getting calls from other towns. Boys throughout the country have heard about what's going on here and they're heading our way, apparently, looking for girls. 
BRENT Put a squad car at every entrance to town. 
The desk sergeant picks up another call. 
SERGEANT Your wife's on line three. 
BRENT I can't talk to her now. 
SERGEANT There's a problem with Jody. 
BRENT Tell her she has to handle it. 
He heads outside. 
EXT.  POLICE STATION 
The deputy walks Brent to his car. 
DEPUTY As bizarre as it may sound, seems someone is planning to have a big party tonight. 
BRENT No? 
DEPUTY Should we close down any eruption? 
BRENT Are you sure? 
DEPUTY We're seeing all the signs in town. 
BRENT I like the idea of all the kids in one place. If it happens, just keep a man outside until you hear from me. I'll be back in a couple of hours. 
He jumps in his car and speeds away. 
EXT.  LIBRARY 
The gray old ivy-covered town library. Jody rides up and heads inside. 
INT.  LIBRARY 
Jody enters the vast library. It's empty. Almost spooky. A seventy year old lady, MISS DUNLOP is behind the desk, robotically stamping the back flaps of books. 
MISS DUNLOP Hi Jody. What can I DO for you? 
JODY Hi Miss Dunlop. Where do you keep the old town papers? 
MISS DUNLOP They're all on microfiche. What year are you looking for? 
JODY Twenty eight years ago. 
MISS DUNLOP Follow me. 
INT.  LIBRARY - UPSTAIRS 
They head up the stairs and into the microfilm room. 
JODY This place is empty. 
MISS DUNLOP Everyone's getting ready for the party. 
JODY You heard about that? 
MISS DUNLOP Of course. NO ONE EVER SHUTS UP IN THE LIBARY. Kids were whispering about it all day. 
JODY Don't you think it's sick? 
MISS DUNLOP Not at all. In fact, I thought about going. 
JODY You Miss Dunlop? 
She hands Jody the microfiche. 
MISS DUNLOP Unfortunately I qualify. Think I'm too old? 
JODY (lying) No. 
MISS DUNLOP You're sweet. I really wish someone had thrown a party like that when I was your age. My life might have been very different. 
SHE SLOWLY HEADS DOWN THE STAIRS. 
cut to: 
JODY And the police did nothing? 
MARGE EVERYONE JUST KIND OF LOOKED THE OTHER WAY. 
JODY How could you? 
MARGE I don't know. We just did. I guess I was kind of scared going against the gain. Against the whole town. 
JODY The word is Mob. 
MARGE I've regretted it ever since. Never run with the herd just because they're the herd. 
JODY Who were they? 
Marge freezes. She didn't want to be asked that. 
MARGE Who? 
JODY The men. Do any of them still live around here? 
MARGE Two men left town right after it happened. 
JODY You're not telling me something. 
Marge takes a deep breath, unsure what to say. 
MARGE Mr. Sisler was one of them. 
JODY (shocked) The principal? 
MARGE Yes. 
JODY Who was the fourth? 
Marge is stricken. She looks down. 
MARGE God. It's like everything that was ever repressed in this town is suddenly bubbling up through the ground. 
Jody gets it. 
JODY Dad? 
Her mother can't deny it any longer. 
JODY(CONT'D) (horrified) THAT'S why he called Mr. Sisler first. He was one of them. 
MARGE Not a day has gone by where your father has not torn himself to shreds for what happened. We both have... 
JODY NO! 
Jody gets up. MARGE He dedicated his life to law enforcement after... 
Jody runs off, very upset. 
EXT.  LIBRARY 
Jody jumps on her bicycle and speeds off. 
EXT.  GARDEN 
Marge sits down and stares straight ahead, crushed. 
EXT.  INDIANA DIRT ROAD 
The rusty old mailbox on the forgotten dirt road reads 'Lisa Sherman' Brent's police car turns into the driveway. 
INT.  CAR 
Brent pulls up to the house. he sits and stares for a moment. 
EXT.  LISA SHERMAN'S HOUSE 
It's a dilapidated old house, uncared for, overgrown, a 'For Sale' sign stands crookedly in the front yard. 
Brent gets out of the car and heads to the front door, stepping over rusty tools and old auto parts. 
EXT.  FRONT DOOR 
Brent lifts his hand and is about to knock. He can't. He walks around in a circle, composing himself, preparing himself to face Lisa Sherman after all these years. He draws the gun from his holster and knocks. 
No one answers. 
He knocks again. 
No one answers, again. 
A WOMAN, THE CARETAKER, appears from the side of the house. 
INT.  LEONARD'S HOUSE 
Mr. Leonard opens the door to his house. Jody walks in behind him. 
LEONARD of COURSE. You're not scared? 
JODY Of course I'm scared. 
LEONARD Then you should go. 
JODY You think I should go to the party, Mr. Marliston? 
LEONARD I really do. For your own safety. 
Jody doesn't know what to make of this. It's not what she expected to hear from her teacher. 
Leonard goes into the kitchen. Jody sits on the couch and looks around. She's immediately sensing that something is off about the place. It's certainly not the way she imagined a teacher's house to look. It has all sorts of city plans, maps, and drawings on the walls. Years of Cherry Falls yearbooks and newspapers are stacked in piles. 
He reappears with two beers and a pot filled with soapy water. He hands her a beer. 
JODY I just feel so manipulated. By everyone. My dad, my boyfriend, and now some psychopath I don't even know. 
SHE TAKES THE BEER, surprised he's giving her alcohol. He kneels down in front of her and begins to clean the wound on her leg. 
LEONARD We're all manipulated. From the moment we're born. The event that fatalistically shaped my life happened before I was even born. 
JODY Really? 
LEONARD Yes. We have no real freedom. You of all people should understand that. This may sting. 
Jody is beginning to feel strange. There's something off kilter about this whole encounter. 
JODY Me? Why me? 
LEONARD Because of your father. The way what his sins shaped you. 
He starts putting a disinfectant on her wound. 
JODY What do you know about my father? 
LEONARD He's a rapist. Like mine. 
She grimaces. The disinfectant hurts. 
JODY (a little scared)_ Your father raped someone? 
LEONARD Lisa Sherman was my mother. Do you know who that is? 
JODY Yes. 
LEONARD I was born nine months after she was raped. One of the four men who raped her is my father. I have no idea which one. 
JODY You're the killed. 
LEONARD Yes that's the whole point. This is what I was put on this earth to do. Rape the town that raped my mother. Steal its pristine innocence like it stole hers. I've planned this since I was a very little boy. You have no real freedom either. Your father has cast a shadow that you've never eluded. 
Jody gets up and starts backing away from him but he gets up quickly. He's not letting her get away. 
Jody bolts for the door but she doesn't have time to open it. 
Leonard grabs her and throws her across the room. 
Jody smashes into a  table. He bends down to pick her up, but she pulls a book case over on him, narrowly escaping. 
She runs for the back door. 
INT.  BACK DOOR 
Jody opens the back door and gets halfway out when Leonard runs up to her, pulls her away from the door, and slugs her in the face, sending her sprawling to the ground. He picks her up and punches her a second time, breaking her nose, knocking her half out. He picks her up by the waist and carries her to the basement stairs. 
INT.  BASEMENT STAIRS 
Leonard throws Jody down into the dark basement. She tumbles down the stairs, hitting her head on the cold stone floor. 
He comes charging down after her, closing the door behind them. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  PARTY HOUSE 
The CD is now skipping. Kids are in every corner, bed , and closet, making out. Every square inch of the house is being taken as the party shifts into higher gear. It's a sea of sheets and blankets rippling with bodies under them. Giggles and moans are heard every second. 
INT.  A CLOSET 
Sandy and Mark are gently kissing in the closet, still standing up. Mark studies Sandy's face for a second, then slowly lifts her dress, sliding his hand on to her thighs. 
MARK You're so beautiful. 
The door at the top of the stairs opens. 
Leonard appears in silhouette carrying the body wrapped in a blanket. He throws it down the stairs and turns the lights on. 
The basement is almost an exact replication of the basement in his mother's house. A cot in the same spot. The dresser as well. The Lisa Sherman costume is neatly hung from big metal hooks. 
Leonard sits Jody back up. 
A little blood drips from Jody's closed hands. She has the shard. 
Leonard ties the other body to a chair facing Jody. He starts singing SLY AND THE FAMILY STONE. 
LEONARD (singing) 'It's a family affair, It's a family affair.' 
He undoes the blanket revealing the battered but still breathing body of Jody's dad. Brent's bleeding from the forehead, nose, and mouth. He's badly beaten up. 
Jody gags on her gag. Her dad looks her in the eye. 
LEONARD Well, we may be family One in four chance. 
Leonard picks up his razor and starts towards Jody. 
LEONARD Sheriff Brent, you will be the second of the four horsemen of the apocalypse to die. But first you will watch as I slice up your little girl. 
Brent starts frantically shaking no, trying to escape as Leonard kneels in front of Jody and runs his hands up under her dress, exposing her shaved, nubile leg. The 'V' is still fresh in her calf. 
Leonard starts to cut an 'I' next to it. 
Jody's face grimaces in pain. Blood drips to the ground. Her leg starts to shake. 
LEONARD You're shaking too much. If you don't stop shaking Jody, I'll have to kill before I carve. We wouldn't want that. 
Jody concentrates on trying to show no pain, not to flinch. It's tough. Her father watches, horrified. 
Cut to: 
EXT.  STREET 
Kenny runs down the street, heading toward Jody's house. He stops to catch his breath for a second. He notices something. 
EXT.  LEONARD'S 
Jody's bicycle is still leaning against Leonard's porch. 
EXT.  STREET 
Kenny crosses the street to Leonard's house and inspects the bicycle. It's hers. 
INT.  BASEMENT 
Leonard continues to work on Jody's bare leg, starting the 'R'. Jody and her father stare at each other, helplessly. 
LEONARD My mother said, after you and your three droogs raped her Brent, that people in town refused to let her use their bathrooms. Is that true? Did people really call her a slut and tell her 'you can't shit here'? She used to snarl that at me. That's all she really did, at least in my direction, was snarl. When she looked at me, she saw only you. 
Jody gags in pain. Brent looks away. 
LEONARD Open your eyes Brent. Watch. Or will I cause her much more pain. 
Brent opens his eyes. More blood drips. Jody starts to lose consciousness, barely able to stand it anymore. The doorbell rings. Leonard looks up, concerned. 
EXT.  HOUSE 
Kenny rings it again. No one answers. 
He walks over to the window and looks through a crack underneath the curtains. 
INT.  HOUSE 
Kenny's POV - Jody's coat and purse are still on the couch. 
EXT.  HOUSE 
Kenny senses that something is really off. He rings again but no one answers.  Worried, he pops the screen. It's breaking and entering time. 
INT.  LIVING ROOM 
Kenny climbs into the living room and looks around. 
KENNY Hello? Jody? 
INT.   BASEMENT 
Leonard hears Kenny. He can't ignore him any longer. 
LEONARD Who the fuck is breaking into my house? 
Leonard checks Jody's and Brent's ropes are tight, then heads up the stairs. As soon as he disappears, Jody wriggles toward her father and starts cutting his ropes with the shard of glass. 
KENNY Climb on. 
INT.  BACK PANTRY 
Leonard breaks through the door. 
INT.  KITCHEN 
Leonard runs into the kitchen and looks out the window. 
EXT.  HOUSE 
Kenny and Jody are peddling away down the driveway. 
EXT.  BACK DOOR 
Leonard bursts out of the house and jumps into his car. 
INT.  CAR 
Leonard starts the car. 
EXT.  HOUSE 
The car squeals out of the driveway, rims sparking wildly. 
EXT.  SUBURBAN STREET 
Kenny frantically pedals the bike up the pristine suburban street. Jody hangs on for dear life. 
JODY Go to the police station! 
KENNY Deputy Webber's at the party. It's only three blocks away. 
Leonard's car squeals around the corner behind them. 
JODY Fuck! It's him. 
INT.  CAR 
Leonard steps on the gas. 
EXT.  STREET 
Kenny peddles as fast as he can, going up onto the sidewalk but that doesn't stop Leonard. He comes screeching up on the sidewalk right behind Kenny, ready to run him over. 
Kenny tears up onto a lawn, Leonard follows him, grass spewing up everywhere. 
Kenny cuts hard between two trees and back onto the street. He heads onto the other sidewalk. LEONARD remains in pursuit, knocking into several cars, flattening several fences, and mutilating a cat along the way. 
Leonard gains on them as they zigzag up and down the pristine street, destroying it. 
Leonard pulls up right behind them. He hits the gas. Kenny has to turn hard to avoid getting hit. 
Kenny can't hold the bike upright and it slides out from under them. 
EXT.  BACKYARD 
Kenny and Jody tumble up someone's driveway, smashing into their fence. 
EXT.  STREET 
Leonard can't hold the car straight and it 360s across several lawns. Finally stopping, smashing into a parked car. 
EXT.   BACKYARD 
Kenny helps Jody to her feet. 
BACK OF HOUSE 
The GERMAN SHEPARD that lives in the house comes charging out of the dog door towards them, barking and snarling. 
KENNY Shit. 
Kenny helps Jody over the fence, then leaps up on it just as the German Shepard snaps at him. 
He jumps down on the other side, safe. 
The German Shepard smells something else and tears away. 
EXT.  FRONT OF HOUSE 
Leonard gets out of his car and takes a step toward the house when the German Shepard comes charging out the open fence.  Leonard screams. The dog pounces on him, starts humping his leg. Leonard rolls his eyes. The dog thrusts away. 
CLOSE ON THE RAZOR. Leonard raises the razor, contemplates, then rolls his eyes. He pushes the dog off of him.  It lets out a panted growl, almost like it's saying 'going so soon lover boy?' Leonard hops back in his car, speeds off down the street. The dog barks wildly up at the night sky. Talk about being left with a hard-on. 
EXT.  PARTY HOUSE 
Kenny and Jody limp toward the front door. 
INT.  PARTY HOUSE 
Kenny and Jody limp through the front door. Couples are everywhere. There's no room to even walk. 
The party has reached it's 'climax'. 
We see the faces of teenage boys and girls as they lose their virginity. They run the gamut of emotions. Some are terrified, some are ecstatic. Some are concentrating as hard as they've ever concentrated, some are closing their eyes, trying to fade out. 
We see Sandy, Mark, Cindy, and Ben all having a blast. Sharon has managed to find a new partner and the nerds are riding the homely girls. It's orgiastic. 
Kenny and Jody can only marvel at it as they limp through the maze of bodies looking for a place to hide. 
KENNY GRABS  a sheet off the ground and carries Jody up the stairs. 
INT.  MASTER BEDROOM 
Kenny carries Jody into the huge bedroom. 
A couple of kids look up as the door opens. There must be over a 100 teenagers in the room, adjoining bathroom, and closets. The room is just a sea of kids humping two deep, under blankets. 
KID ON FLOOR There's no room in here. 
ANOTHER KID Yeah. Get lost we're packed. 
Kenny pays no attention to them. He shoves his way into a corner,  pissing off everyone on the way, stepping on a few hands and other appendages. He puts Jody down and starts unbuttoning her shirt. 
JODY (whispering) What are you doing? 
KENNY Pretend we're just another couple. 
He pulls her under the sheet. 
INT.  PARTY - DOWNSTAIRS 
Leonard comes in the front door, his razor in hand, the policeman's blood still dripping from it. He looks around, wondering if they're here. 
No one seems to notice Leonard as he hunts for Jody and Kenny, walking through the sea of bodies, dripping blood on the backs of a couple of kids. A serial killer at a fuckfest.  Leonard smiles at the sight of all the teenagers copulating. 
INT.  MASTER BEDROOM 
Kenny and Jody curl up next to each other. Kenny kisses her. She kisses him back. 
They're into each other. They can't keep their hands off each other. They start to really make out. 
INT.   PARTY DOWNSTAIRS BEDROOM 
Leonard moves into one of the bedrooms. He switches the lights on. 
The kids look up pissed off. There's not an inch of floor space. 
BOY Hey! Turn that off. 
GIRL Mr. Marliston?! 
LEONARD Hi Samantha. Excuse me. 
He steps over a thrusting hairy ass, surveys the room.  No Kenny. No Jody. 
GIRL (freaked) What are you doing here?! 
The girl breaks into orgasm before she can barely finish the sentence. Leonard flips the lights off and heads out of the room. Through out the entire proceedings, everyone was fucking like no one entered the room. Homeostasis remains stable. 
INT.  PARTY STAIRCASE 
Leonard heads up the stairs, still looking for Kenny and Jody. A couple of kids on the staircase notice him. He almost trips on one. They start whispering to each other, freaked out that a teacher is there. More and more kids start looking up The party has definitely been disturbed. 
INT.   MASTER BEDROOM 
Jody hears the disturbance. She stops Kenny and listens. 
INT.   BEDROOM 
Leonard checks another bedroom. He flips the lights on. No Jody, no Kenny. He leaves. More and more kids notice him. 
INT.   MASTER BEDROOM 
Jody and Kenny know he's close. Leonard appears in the doorway. 
KENNY (whispering) It's him. 
Leonard accidentally steps on a boy's hand as he enters the room. The boy, JIMMY, is pissed off.  He looks up and realizes who it is. 
LEONARD Pay no attention to me. 
JIMMY What are you doing here? 
Leonard is just a few feet from Jody's leg. 
Jody and Kenny push closer to the door. 
Leonard reaches for Jody's leg. He can't quite grab it. 
Kenny and Jody reach the door. They're almost out. Leonard lungs and grabs Jody's leg. 
Jody screams out in pain, falls into the crowd. 
JODY Kenny! 
Kenny tries to grab for her but he can't reach her. The force of the mob pushes him out the door, through the vortex. 
INT.  UPSTAIRS 
Kids jam the staircase. There's too many trying to get down at once. Everyone's still pushing. The kids on the staircase can't keep their position and start falling forward, pushing harder. 
INT.  BEDROOM 
Leonard keeps hold of Jody's leg and pulls her toward him. 
EXT.  BALCONEY 
Kenny tries to get back to Jody but there's no way he can make headway back into that room. 
KENNY Jody?! 
The staircase is now jammed with people, starts to buckle. 
The banister breaks. Kids start falling off the balcony and staircase, onto kids below, CRACKING SKULLS, breaking bones. 
INT.   DOWNSTAIRS 
Lamps smash to the ground. Tables are trampled. Basically, the entire inside of the house is destroyed in the stampede which puts something out of fucking JUMANJI to shame. 
INT.   BEDROOM 
Leonard gets hold of Jody's waist and pulls her towards him, razor ready. 
INT.   UPSTAIRS CORRIDOR 
Everyone gives one final push out. Kenny is swept on to the staircase. It can't take the pressure and finally cracks. 
Kids tumble on top of each other falling to the floor below as the staircase splinters. Hurt kids are everywhere as more and more get pushed over the edge. It's a disaster. Broken boned teenagers litter the floor like it were a battlefield. 
Kenny manages to grab hold of the second floor as kids fall past him. 
The whole house begins to buckle. 
INT.   BEDROOM 
The room empties as the kids push out. Leonard pulls Jody up next to him and puts the razor to her neck. He draws the first spot of blood. 
JODY Please! You wouldn't kill your sister, would you? 
LEONARD You think you're my sister? 
INT.   STAIRCASE 
Kenny manages to pull himself back up to the second floor. 
INT.   BEDROOM 
Jody turns to look at LEONARD as Kenny appears in the doorway. 
JODY We have the same color eyes. 
He looks into her eyes. 
LEONARD You're right. We do. 
Leonard stares at Jody for a moment, relaxing his grip, giving Kenny just the break he needs to dive for Leonard's arm, surprising him, knocking him over. They struggle for the razor but Leonard overpowers him and grabs it, cutting his own hand. He turns and slices Kenny down the side, cutting him deep. 
Kenny fights off the pain and leaps on Leonard's back, grabbing his arm around the neck. 
Leonard stands up and twirls around, trying to knock Kenny off his back, smashing him into walls. 
Kenny screams in pain, but doesn't let go, pulling at Leonard's face and throat. 
Leonard spins faster. 
JODY struggles to her feet, holding her neck, still losing a little blood. Kenny's grips start to slip as Leonard reaches back, to slice him across the face and neck. 
LEONARD, backs up towards the window, slips over a dildo. He screams, loses his grip on Kenny, goes crashing out the second story window. 
EXT.  HOUSE 
