CHINATOWN 
Written by 
Robert Towne 
FULL SCREEN PHOTOGRAPH Grainy but unmistakably a man and woman making love. Photograph shakes. SOUND of a man MOANING in anguish. The photograph is dropped, REVEALING ANOTHER, MORE compromising one. Then another, and another. More moans. 
CURLY'S VOICE (crying out) Oh, no. 
INT. GITTES' OFFICE 
CURLY drops the photos on Gittes' desk. Curly towers over GITTES and sweats heavily through his workman's clothes, his breathing progressively more labored. A drop plunks on Gittes' shiny desk top. 
Gittes notes it. A fan whiffs overhead. Gittes glances up at it. He looks cool and brisk in a white linen suit despite the heat. Never taking his eyes off Curly, he lights a cigarette using a lighter with a "nail" on his desk. 
Curly, with another anguished sob, turns and rams his fist into the wall, kicking the wastebasket as he does. He starts to sob again, slides along the wall where his fist has left a noticeable dent and its impact has sent the signed photos of several movie stars askew. 
Curly slides on into the blinds and sinks to his knees. He is weeping heavily now, and is in such pain that he actually bites into the blinds. 
Gittes doesn't move from his chair. 
GITTES All right, enough is enough. You can't eat the Venetian blinds, Curly. I just had 'em installed on Wednesday. 
Curly responds slowly, rising to his feet, crying. Gittes reaches into his desk and pulls out a shot glass, quickly selects a cheaper bottle of bourbon from several fifths of more expensive whiskeys. 
Gittes pours a large shot. He shoves the glass across his desk toward Curly. 
GITTES Down the hatch. 
Curly stares dumbly at it. Then picks it up, and drains it. He sinks back into the chair opposite Gittes, begins to cry quietly. 
CURLY (drinking, relaxing a little) She's just no good. 
GITTES What can I tell you, Kid? You're right. When you're right, you're right, and you're right. 
CURLY Ain't worth thinking about. 
Gittes leaves the bottle with Curly. 
GITTES You're absolutely right, I wouldn't give her another thought. 
CURLY (pouring himself) You know, you're okay, Mr. Gittes. I know it's your job, but you're okay. 
GITTES (settling back, breathing a little easier) Thanks, Curly. Call me Jake. 
CURLY Thanks. You know something, Jake? 
GITTES What's that, Curly? 
CURLY I think I'll kill her. 
INT. DUFFY & WALSH'S OFFICE 
Noticeably less plush than Gitte's. A well-groomed, dark- haired WOMAN sits nervously between their two desks, fiddling with the veil on her pillbox hat. 
WOMAN I was hoping Mr. Gittes could see to this personally. 
WALSH (almost the manner of someone comforting the bereaved) If you'll allow us to complete our preliminary questioning, by then he'll be free. 
There is the SOUND of ANOTHER MOAN coming from Gittes' Office. 
Something made of glass shatters. The Woman grows more edgy. 
INT. GITTES' OFFICE – GITTES & CURLY 
Gittes and Curly stand in front of the desk, Gittes staring contemptuously at the heavy breathing hulk towering over him. Gittes takes a handkerchief and wipes away the plunk of perspiration on his desk. 
CURLY (crying) They don't kill a guy for that. 
GITTES Oh they don't? 
CURLY Not for your wife. That's the unwritten law. 
Gittes pounds the photos on the desk, shouting; 
GITTES I'll tell you the unwritten law, you dumb son of a bitch, you gotta be rich to kill somebody, anybody and get away with it. You think you got that kind of dough, you think you got that kind of class? 
Curly shrinks back a little. 
CURLY ...No... 
GITTES You bet your ass you don't. You can't even pay me off. 
This seems to upset Curly even more. 
CURLY I'll pay the rest next trip. We only caught sixty ton of skipjack around San Benedict. We hit a chubasco, they don't pay you for skipjack the way they do for tuna or albacore. 
GITTES (easing him out of his office) Forget it. I only mention it to illustrate a point... 
INT. OFFICE RECEPTION 
He's now walking him past SOPHIE who pointedly averts her gaze. He opens the door where on the pebbled glass can be read: "J. J. GITTES and Associates. DISCREET INVESTIGATION" 
GITTES I don't want your last dime. 
He throws an arm around Curly and flashes a dazzling smile. 
Gittes, impeccably dressed, passes the drunk on the way up the stairs. 
INT. COUNCIL CHAMBERS 
Former Mayor SAM BAGBY is speaking. Behind him is a huge map, with overleafs and bold lettering: 
"PROPOSED ALTO VALLEJO DAM AND RESERVOIR" 
Some of the councilmen are reading funny papers and gossip columns while Bagby is speaking. 
BAGBY Gentlemen, today you can walk out that door, turn right, hop on a streetcar and in twenty-five minutes end up smack in the Pacific Ocean. Now you can swim in it, you can fish in it, you can sail in it but you can't drink it, you can't water your lawns with it, you can't irrigate an orange grove with it.  Remember we live next door to the ocean but we also live on the edge of the desert. Los Angeles is a desert community. Beneath this building, beneath every street there's a desert. Without water the dust will rise up and cover us as though we'd never existed! (pausing, letting the implication sink in) 
CLOSE – GITTES 
sitting next to some grubby farmers, bored. He yawns, edges away from one of the dirtier farmers. 
BAGBY (O.S.) (continuing) The Alto Vallejo can save us from that, and I respectfully suggest that eight and a half million dollars is a fair price to pay to keep the desert from our streets and not on top of them. 
AUDIENCE – COUNCIL CHAMBERS 
An amalgam of farmers, businessmen, and city employees have been listening with keen interest. A couple of the farmers applaud. 
Somebody shooshes them. 
COUNCIL COMMITTEE 
In a whispered conference. 
COUNCILMAN (acknowledging Bagby) Mayor Bagby... let's hear from the departments again. I suppose we better take Water and Power first. Mr. Mulwray. 
REACTION – GITTES 
Looking up with interest from his racing form. 
MULWRAY 
Walks to the huge map with overleafs. He is a slender man in his sixties, who wears glasses and moves with surprising fluidity. He turns to a smaller, younger man, and nods. The man turns the overleaf on the map. 
MULWRAY In case you've forgotten, gentlemen, over five hundred lives were lost when the Van der Lip Dam gave way core samples have shown that beneath this bedrock is shale similar to the permeable shale in the Van der Lip disaster.  It couldn't withstand that kind of pressure there. (referring to a new overleaf) Now you propose yet another dirt banked terminus dam with slopes of two and one half to one, one hundred twelve feet high and a twelve thousand acre water surface. Well, it won't hold. I won't build it. It's that simple. I am not making that kind of mistake twice. Thank you, gentlemen. 
Mulwray leaves the overleaf board and sits down. Suddenly there are some whoops and hollers from the rear of the chambers and a redfaced FARMER drives in several scrawny, bleating sheep. Naturally, they cause a commotion. 
COUNCIL PRESIDENT (shouting to farmer) What in the hell do you think you're doing? (as the sheep bleat down the aisles toward the Council) Get those goddam things out of here! 
FARMER (right back) Tell me where to take them! You don't have an answer for that so quick, do you? 
Bailiffs and sergeants-at-arms respond to the imprecations of the Council and attempt to capture the sheep and the farmers, having to restrain one who looks like he's going to bodily attack Mulwray. 
FARMER (through above, to Mulwray) You steal the water from the valley, ruin the grazing, starve my livestock who's paying you to do that, Mr. Mulwray, that's what I want to know! 
L.A. RIVERBED – LONG SHOT 
It's virtually empty. Sun blazes off it's ugly concrete banks. Where the banks are earthen, they are parched and choked with weeds. 
After a moment, Mulwray's car pulls INTO VIEW on a flood control road about fifteen feet above the riverbed. Mulwray gets out of the car. Me looks around. 
WITH GITTES 
Holding a pair of binoculars, downstream and just above the flood control road using some dried mustard weeds for cover. He watches while Mulwray makes his way down to the center of the riverbed. 
There Mulwray stops, tuns slowly, appears to be looking at the bottom of the riverbed, or at nothing at all. 
GITTES 
Trains the binoculars on him. Sun glints off Mulwray's glasses. 
BELOW GITTES 
There's the SOUND of something like champagne corks popping. Then a small Mexican boy atop a swayback horse rides it into the riverbed, and into Gitte's view. 
MULWRAY 
Himself stops, stands still when he hears the sound. Power lines and the sun are overhead, the trickle of brackish water at his feet. 
He moves swiftly downstream in the direction of the sound, toward Gittes. 
GITTES 
Moves a little further back as Mulwray rounds the bend in the river and comes face to face with the Mexican boy on the muddy banks. 
Mulwray says something to the boy. 
The boy doesn't answer at first. Mulwray points to the ground. The boy gestures. Mulwray frowns. He kneels down in the mud and stares at it. He seems to be concentrating on it. 
After a moment, he rises, thanks the boy and heads swiftly back upstream – scrambling up the bank to his car. 
There he reaches through the window and pulls out a roll of blueprints or something like them. He spreads them on the hood of his car and begins to scribble some notes, looking downstream from time to time. 
The power lines overhead HUM. 
He stops, listens to them then rolls up the plans and gets back in the car. He drives off. 
GITTES 
Hurries to get back to his car. He gets in and gets right back out. 
The steamy leather burns him. He takes a towel from the back seat and carefully places it on the front one. He gets in and takes off. 
GITTES (continuing; eagerly) So what you got? 
Walsh shows him the photos. He looks at them. They are a series outside a restaurant showing Mulwray with another man whose appearance is striking. In two of the photos a gnarled cane is visible. 
GITTES (continuing; obviously annoyed) This? 
WALSH They got into a terrific argument outside the Pig 'n Whistle. 
GITTES What about? 
WALSH I don't know. The traffic was pretty loud. I only heard one thing – apple core. 
GITTES Apple core? 
WALSH (shrugs) Yeah. 
INT. GITTES' OFFICE 
Gittes tosses down the photos in disgust. 
GITTES Jesus Christ, Walsh. That's what you spent your day doing? 
WALSH Look, you tell me to take pictures, I take pictures. 
GITTES Let me explain something to you, Walsh. This business requires a certain finesse. 
The PHONE has been RINGING. Sophie buzzes him. 
GITTES Yeah, Sophie? (he picks up the phone) Duffy, where are you? 
Duffy's VOICE can be HEARD, excitedly. "I got it. I got it. He's found himself some cute little twist in a rowboat, in Echo Park." 
GITTES (continuing) Okay, slow down – Echo Park. (to Walsh) Jesus, water again. 
WESTLAKE PARK (MCARTHUR PARK) 
Duffy is rowing, Gittes seated in the stern. 
They pass Mulwray and a slender blonde girl in a summer print dress, drifting in their rowboat, Mulwray fondly doting on the girl. 
GITTES (to Duffy, as they pass) Let's have a big smile, pal. 
He shoots past Duffy, expertly running off a couple of fast shots. 
Mulwray and the girl seem blissfully unaware of them. 
DUFFY 
Turns again and they row past Mulwray and the girl, Gittes again clicking off several fast shots. 
CLOSE SHOT – SIGN: 
"EL MACANDO APARTMENTS" 
MOVE ALONG the red tiled roof and down to a lower level of the roof where Gittes' feet are hooked over the apex of the roof and Gittes himself is stretched face downward on the tiles, pointing himself and his camera to a veranda below him where the girl and Mulwray are eating. Gittes is clicking off more shots when the tiles his feet are hooked over come loose. 
Gittes begins a slow slide down the tile to the edge of the roof and possibly over it to a three-story drop. He tries to slow himself down. The loose tile also begins to slide. 
Gittes stops himself at the roof's edge by the storm drain and begins a very precarious turn, this time hooking his feet in the drain itself. The loose tile falls and hits the veranda below. He stops as it's about to slide over the edge. He carefully lays it in the drain. But a fragment off the cracked edge of the tile falls. 
WITH MULWRAY AND THE GIRL 
Mulwray staring at the fragment at his feet. He looks to the girl. 
He's clearly concerned. He rises, looks up to the roof. 
FROM HIS POV 
The roof and the sign topping it betray nothing. He slowly sits back down, staring at the tile fragment. 
CLOSE SHOT – NEWSPAPER "DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER BLOWS FUSE OVER CHIEF'S USE OF FUNDS FOR EL MACANDO LOVE NEST." 
In the style of the Hearst yellow press, there is a heart- shaped drawing around one of the photos that Gittes had taken. Next to it is a smaller column, "J.J. Gittes hired by suspicious spouse." 
INT. BARBERSHOP – GITTES 
Holds the paper and reads while getting his haircut and his shoes shined. In fact, almost all the customers are reading papers. 
BARNEY (to Gittes) When you get so much publicity, after a while you must get blasé about it. 
A self-satisfied smile comes to Gittes' face. 
BARNEY (continuing) Face it. You're practically a movie star. 
In b.g., customers can be OVERHEARD talking about the drought. 
Interspersed with above, someone is saying, "They're gonna start rationing water unless it rains." Someone else says, "Only for washing your cars." Third says, "You're not going to be able to water your lawn either, or take a bath more than once a week." First says, "If you don't have a lawn or a car, do you get an extra bath?" 
Gittes has been staring outside the barbershop. A car is stalled. 
The hood is up. A man watches his radiator boiling over. 
GITTES (laughing) Look at that. 
BARNEY Heat's murder. 
OTHER CUSTOMER (end of conversation) Fools names and fools faces... 
EVELYN Yes, that Mulwray, Mr. Gittes. And since you agree with me we've never met, you must also agree that I haven't hired you to do anything. Certainly not spy on my husband. I see you like publicity, Mr. Gittes. Well, you're going to get it. 
GITTES Now wait a minute, Mrs. Mulwray... 
She's walked past him toward the door. He stop her. 
GITTES (continuing) ...there's some misunderstanding here. It's not going to do any good to get tough with me. 
Evelyn flashes a cold smile. 
EVELYN I don't get tough with anybody, Mr. Gittes.  My lawyer does. 
Evelyn starts out the door and Gittes starts after her. This time he's stopped by the Gray-Haired Man who has also come out of his office and up behind him. 
GRAY-HAIRED MAN Here's something for you, Mr. Gittes. 
Gittes turns to be handed a thick sheaf of papers, a summons and complaint. Evelyn walks out the door. 
GRAY-HAIRED MAN (continuing; pleasantly) I suppose we'll be hearing from your attorney. 
Gittes stares down at the papers in his hand. 
INT. GITTES' INNER OFFICE – GITTES, DUFFY & WALSH 
On Gittes' desk. There are empty coffee cups, the summons and complaint, and the newspaper Gittes had brought with him from the barber shop. 
The three men are sitting, worn and silent. Walsh chewing gum is the loudest noise in the room. 
Gittes looks to Walsh with obvious irritation. Walsh stops chewing. 
Duffy puts out a cigarette in the dregs of one of the coffee cups. 
GITTES (to Duffy) There's seven ashtrays in this room, Duffy. 
DUFFY Okay. 
GITTES That's a filthy habit. 
DUFFY I said okay, Jake. 
GITTES Yeah, yeah. If she'd come in here saying she was Shirley Temple you'd say okay to that, too. 
WALSH Look, Jake. She gave us Mulwray's real phone number and address. 
GITTES All she needed for that was the phone book! 
WALSH No, no. She said not to call, her husband might answer. 
GITTES When I find out who that phony bitch was. 
Gittes is staring down at the newspaper. He suddenly grabs the phone, begins dialing. A tight little smile breaks out on his face. 
He buzzes Sophie. 
GITTES Sophie. 
SOPHIE Yes, Mr. Gittes. 
GITTES Get me the Times. Whitey Mehrholtz. (as he waits) And how about that snotty broad? (the phone to his ear) What does she think, she's perfect? Coming in waving her lawyers and her money at me – so goddam smug. She's no better than anybody else in this town. 
Sophie BUZZES. 
GITTES (continuing) Whitey, what's new, pal?... Yeah, listen, where did you get those photographs... Yeah, blowing a fuse over the El Macando love nest.  That's cute, Whitey... so who sent them to you... I sent them? (Gittes laughs a little hysterically) Why would I be asking how you got them if I sent them?... Whitey?... Whitey?... C'mon, level with me for once, my tit's in the wringer and it's beginning to hurt... yeah... yeah... yeah. 
He hangs up. 
WALSH So he says you sent them? 
GITTES (after a moment) They're all a bunch of phonies. 
INT. DEPARTMENT WATER & POWER – HALL 
Gittes stops outside a door marked: 
"HOLLIS J. MULWRAY CHIEF ENGINEER" 
He enters an outer office. The SECRETARY looks surprised. 
GITTES Mr. Mulwray, please. 
SECRETARY He's not in, Mr.? 
GITTES Gittes. 
SECRETARY May I ask what this is regarding? 
GITTES It's personal. Has he been out long? 
SECRETARY Since lunch. 
GITTES Gee whiz. (he glances at his watch) And I'm late. 
SECRETARY He was expecting you? 
GITTES Fifteen minutes ago. Why don't I go in and wait? 
Without waiting for a response, he does. The Secretary half rises in protest but Gittes is through the inner door. 
GITTES I get by. 
ESCOBAR Well, sometimes it takes a while for a man to find himself and I guess you have. 
LOACH Poking around in other people's dirty linen. 
GITTES Yeah. Tell me, you still throw Chinamen into jail for spitting on the laundry? 
ESCOBAR You're behind the times, Jake. They've got steam irons now. (smiles) And I'm out of Chinatown. 
GITTES Since when? 
ESCOBAR Since I made Lieutenant. 
It's apparent Gittes is impressed despite himself. 
GITTES Congratulations. 
ESCOBAR Uh-huh. So what are you doing here? 
GITTES Looking for someone. 
ESCOBAR Who? 
GITTES Hollis Mulwray. You seen him? 
ESCOBAR Oh yes. 
GITTES I'd like to talk to him. 
ESCOBAR You're welcome to try. There he is. 
Escobar points down to the reservoir. A couple of men using poles with hooks are fishing about in the water. It can be SEEN that one of them has hooked something. 
He shouts. The other man hooks it, too. They pull, revealing the soaking back of a man's coat. They start to pull the body into the skiff. 
INT. CORONER'S OFFICE – EVELYN AND ESCOBAR 
Are standing over the body of Mulwray. Escobar has the sheet drawn back. Evelyn nods. 
Escobar drops the sheet. Escobar and Evelyn move a few feet to one side and whisper, almost as though they were trying to keep the corpse from hearing them. 
ESCOBAR It looks like he was washed the entire length of the runoff channel. Could he swim? 
EVELYN Of course. 
ESCOBAR Obviously the fall must have knocked him out. 
Evelyn nods slightly Escobar coughs. A coroner's assistant wheels the body out of the office. 
ESCOBAR (continuing) This alleged affair he was having. The publicity didn't make him morose or unhappy? 
OUTSIDE THE CORONER'S 
Gittes has been sitting on a wooden bench, smoking and listening. At this question, he rises and looks through the doorway. 
Escobar sees him, ignores him. Evelyn doesn't see him. 
EVELYN ...Well, it didn't make him happy... 
ESCOBAR But there is no possibility he would have taken his own life? 
EVELYN (sharply) No. 
ESCOBAR (a little uncomfortably now) Mrs. Mulwray, do you happen to know the name of the young woman in question? 
Evelyn shows a flash of annoyance. 
EVELYN No. 
ESCOBAR Do you know where she might be? 
EVELYN Certainly not! 
Escobar and Evelyn move slowly toward the door. 
ESCOBAR You and your husband never discussed her? 
EVELYN (stopping, faltering) He... we did... he wouldn't tell me her name.  We quarreled over her... of course. It came as a complete surprise to me. 
ESCOBAR A complete surprise? 
EVELYN Yes. 
ESCOBAR But I thought you'd hired a private investigator. 
EVELYN A private investigator? 
ESCOBAR (gesturing vaguely toward the door) Mr. Gittes. 
EVELYN Well yes. 
Evelyn looks up to see Gittes standing in the doorway only a foot or two from her. She stops cold. They look at one another for a long moment. 
EVELYN (her eyes on Gittes) But I... I... did that because I thought it was a nasty rumor I'd put an end to... 
She finishes, looks plaintively at Gittes. Escobar is right at her back. Gittes says nothing. 
Gittes picks up the sheet and pulls it back. CAMERA GETS ITS FIRST GLIMPSE of Mulwray's body. Eyes open, the face badly cut and bruised. 
MORTY Yeah? Ain't that something? Middle of a drought, the water commissioner drowns. Only in L.A. 
GITTES (looking at. Mulwray) Yeah. Banged up pretty bad. 
MORTY That's a long fall. 
GITTES So how are you, Morty? 
Morty is wheeling in another body with the help of an assistant. 
MORTY Never better. You know me, Jake. 
As he begins to move the body into the refrigerator, he breaks into a wrenching spasm of coughing. Gittes spots the other body, lowers the sheet on Mulwray. 
GITTES (picking up on cough) Yeah, so who you got there? 
Morty pulls back the sheet. 
MORTY Leroy Shuhardt, local drunk used to hang around Ferguson's Alley. 
Morty brushes some sand from the man's face, laughs. 
MORTY (continuing) Quite a character. Lately he'd been living in one of the downtown storm drains. Had a bureau dresser down there and everything. 
Gittes has already lost interest. He starts away. 
GITTES Yeah. 
MORTY Drowned, too. 
This stops Gittes. 
GITTES Come again? 
MORTY Yeah, got dead drunk, passed out in the bottom of the riverbed. 
GITTES The L.A. River? 
MORTY (a little puzzled) Yeah, under Hollenbeck Bridge, what's wrong with that? 
Gittes has moved back to the body, looks at it more closely. 
GITTES It's bone dry, Morty. 
MORTY It's not completely dry. 
GITTES Yeah, well he ain't gonna drown in a damp riverbed either, I don't care how soused he was. That's like drowning in a teaspoon. 
Morty shrugs. 
MORTY We got water out of him, Jake. He drowned. 
Gittes walks away mumbling. 
GITTES Jesus, this town... 
EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD – GITTES – DAY 
He's parked on an overpass. The sign HOLLENBECK BRIDGE on one of its concrete columns. Gittes looks down into the riverbed below. 
FROM THE BRIDGE 
Gittes can see the muddy remains of a collapsed shack, its contents strewn down river from the bridge. Below him, lying half over the storm drain and one wall that was on the bank of the river is a sign that proclaims "OWN YOUR OWN OFFICE IN THIS BUILDING $5000 to $6000" which was used as a roof of sorts. Downstream, there's the dresser, an oil drum, a Ford seat cushion, an Armour lard can, etc. The trashy remains of Shuhardt's home. 
Gittes scrambles down the embankment and as he lands near the storm drain one shoe sinks, ankle deep into mud. Gittes pulls it out, swearing. 
He begins to walk a little further downstream when he hears the vaguely familiar SQUISHY CLOP of something. 
Clearing the bridge on the opposite side is the little Mexican Boy, again on his swayback horse, riding along the muddy bank. 
They look at one another a moment. 
GITTES (calling out to him) You were riding here the other day, weren't you...? 
The Boy doesn't answer. 
GITTES (continuing) Speak English?... Habla Ingles? 
THE BOY (finally) Si. 
GITTES Didn't you talk to a man here... few days ago... wore glasses... he... 
The Boy nods. 
GITTES (continuing) What did you talk about, mind my asking? 
The shadows of the two are very long now. 
THE BOY (finally) The water. 
GITTES What about the water? 
THE BOY When it comes. 
GITTES When it comes? What'd you tell him? 
The PHONE is RINGING. Sophie BUZZES. 
GITTES (pressing down intercom) Yeah, Sophie. 
SOPHIE'S VOICE A Miss Sessions calling. 
GITTES Who? 
SOPHIE'S VOICE Ida Sessions. 
GITTES Don't know her. Take a number. 
NEW ANGLE – REVEALING 
A bandage spread-eagled across Gittes' nose. 
WALSH So some contractor wants to build a dam and he makes a few payoffs. So what? 
Gittes turns slowly to Walsh. He lightly taps his nose. 
WALSH (continuing) Think you can nail Mulvihill? They'll claim you were trespassing. 
GITTES I don't want Mulvihill.  I want the big boys that are making the payoffs. 
DUFFY Then what'll you do? 
GITTES Sue the shit out of 'em. 
WALSH Yeah? 
GITTES Yeah. What's wrong with you guys? Think ahead. We find 'em, sue 'em. We'll make a killing. (a dazzling smile) We'll have dinner at Chasen's twice a week, we'll be pissing on ice the rest of our lives. 
WALSH Sue people like that they're liable to be having dinner with the Judge who's trying the suit. 
Gittes looks irritated. The PHONE RINGS again. 
SOPHIE'S VOICE Miss Ida Sessions again. She says you know her. 
GITTES Okay. 
Gittes picks up the phone. He winks to his boys. 
GITTES (continuing) Hello, Miss Sessions. I don't believe we've had the pleasure. 
IDA'S VOICE Oh yes we have... are you alone, Mr. Gittes? 
GITTES (clowning a little for the boys) Isn't everybody? What can I do for you, Miss Sessions? 
Walsh promptly starts to tell Duffy the Admiral Byrd story. 
IDA'S VOICE Well, I'm a working girl, Mr. Gittes. I didn't come in to see you on my own. 
GITTES When did you come in? 
IDA'S VOICE I was the one who pretended to be Mrs. Mulwray, remember? 
Walsh has finished off the punch line and both men are laughing raucously. Gittes drops the mail he's been loafing through and puts his hand over the receiver. 
GITTES (to Duffy and Walsh) Shut the fuck up! (then back to Ida) ...Yes I remember nothing, Miss Sessions, just going over a detail or two with my associates... you were saying? 
IDA'S VOICE Well I never expected anything to happen like what happened to Mr. Mulwray, the point is if it ever comes out I want somebody to know I didn't know what would happen. 
GITTES I understand... if you could tell me who employed you, Miss Sessions. That could help us both. 
IDA'S VOICE Oh no. 
GITTES ...Why don't you give me your address and we can talk this over? 
IDA'S VOICE No, Mr. Gittes. Just look in the obituary column of today's Times... 
GITTES The obituary column? 
IDA'S VOICE You'll find one of those people. 
GITTES 'Those people?' Miss Sessions. 
She hangs up. Gittes looks to his two men. 
INT. BROWN DERBY – CLOSE ON NEWSPAPER 
Gittes is seated, flips through the paper until he finds the OBITUARY COLUMN, scans it, looks up, abruptly tears the column from the paper and puts it in his pocket. 
When he closes the paper we can SEE headlines in the left hand column: "WATER BOND ISSUE PASSES COUNCIL". Ten million dollar referendum to go before the public. 
Evelyn Mulwray is standing at the table as he does so. He rises, allows her to sit. 
CLOSE ON EVELYN 
Gittes watches her as she removes her gloves slowly... She's wearing dove gray gabardine, subdued, tailored. 
GITTES Thanks for coming... drink? 
The waiter's appeared. Evelyn is looking at Gittes' nose. 
EVELYN Tom Collins with lime, not lemon, please. 
Evelyn looks down and smoothes her gloves. When she looks back up she stares expectantly at Gittes. 
EVELYN I don't see anyone for very long, Mr. Gittes.  It's difficult for me. Now I think you know all you need to about me. I didn't want publicity. I didn't want to go into any of this, then or now. Is this all? 
Gittes nods. 
GITTES Oh, by the way. What's the 'C' stand for? 
He's been fingering the envelope... 
EVELYN (she stammers slightly) K... Cross. 
GITTES That your maiden name? 
EVELYN Yes... why? 
GITTES No reason. 
Evelyn turns into Gittes. 
EVELYN You must've had a reason to ask me that. 
GITTES (shrugs) No. I'm just a snoop. 
EVELYN You seem to have had a reason for every other question. 
GITTES No, not for that one. 
EVELYN I don't believe you. 
Gittes suddenly turns sharply in to Evelyn. 
GITTES (moving in) Do me a favor. Sit still and act like I'm charming. 
Evelyn involuntarily draws back. 
GITTES (continuing) There's somebody here. Say something. Anything. Something like we're being intimate. 
Evelyn reluctantly allows Gittes to move closer and dangle his hand in front of their faces. She stares at him. 
EVELYN (meaning his nose) How did it happen? 
GITTES (quietly) Been meaning to talk to you about that. 
EVELYN (quietly) Maybe putting your nose in other people's business? 
GITTES (quietly) More like other people putting their business in my nose. 
Evelyn actually smiles a little. 
WOMAN'S VOICE You son of a bitch. 
Gittes looks up and flashes his smile. 
GITTES Mrs. Match. How're you? 
MRS. MATCH is swaying over the table, a plump woman with a glass of whiskey in one hand, a large purse in the other, and a menacing look in her eye. 
MRS. MATCH Don't give me that, you son of a bitch. 
GITTES Okay. 
Gittes turns back to Evelyn. 
EVELYN (softly) Another satisfied client? 
GITTES Another satisfied client's wife. 
MRS. MATCH Look at me, you son of a bitch. You... you bastard. Are you happy, are you happy now? 
She tries to take a swipe at Gittes with her purse. Gittes covers himself. Waiters rush over. 
MRS. MATCH You smug son of a bitch. My husband's so upset he sweats all night! How do you think that makes me feel? 
GITTES Sweaty? 
Mrs. Match swings at Gittes again and again. She catches him on the nose. It hurts. He covers it, then swings his leg out from under the table and deftly kicks her in the shin. 
Mrs. Match drops her purse and spills her drink. She grabs her shin, hopping around a little. The waiters who had tried to restrain her now try to keep her from falling over. 
GITTES Let's get out of here before she picks up her purse. 
They rise and move toward the door. 
EVELYN (quietly) Tough guy, huh? 
Gittes looks, sees she's kidding, and nods. 
OUTSIDE IN THE PARKING LOT – DUSK 
Gittes' car has been brought by the parking attendant. The attendant opens the passenger side for Evelyn. 
EVELYN Oh, no. I've got my own car. The creamcolored Packard. 
GITTES (to attendant who dutifully starts for her car) Wait a minute, sonny. (to Evelyn) I think you better come with me. 
EVELYN What for? There's nothing more to say. (to attendant) Get my car, please. 
The attendant starts after it again. Gittes leans on the open door of his car and in to Evelyn. He talks quietly but spits it out. 
GITTES Only when I breathe. 
YELBURTON (laughing) Only when you breathe... don't tell me you're still working for Mrs. Mulwray? 
GITTES I never was. 
YELBURTON (stops smiling) I don't understand. 
GITTES Neither do I, actually. But you hired me or you hired that chippie to hire me. 
YELBURTON Mr. Gittes, you're not making a bit of sense. 
GITTES Well, look at it this way, Mr. Yelburton.  Mulwray didn't want to build a dam and he had a reputation that was hard to get around, so. you decided to ruin it. Then he found out that you were dumping water every night. Then he was drowned. 
YELBURTON Mr. Gittes! That's an outrageous accusation.  I don't know what you're talking about. 
GITTES Well, Whitey Mehrholtz over at the Times will. Dumping thousands of gallons of water down the toilet in the middle of a drought.  That's news. 
Gittes heads toward the door. 
YELBURTON Wait. Please sit down, Mr. Gittes. We're... well, we're not anxious for this to get around, but we have been diverting a little water to irrigate avocado and walnut groves in the northwest valley. As you know, the farmers there have no legal right to our water, and since the drought we've had to cut them off. The city comes first, naturally.  But, well, we've been trying to help some of them out, keep them from going under. Naturally when you divert water you get a little runoff. 
GITTES Yeah, a little runoff. Where are those orchards? 
YELBURTON I said, the northwest valley. 
GITTES That's like saying they're in Arizona. 
YELBURTON Mr. Gittes, my field men are out and I can't give you an exact location... 
Gittes nods. 
GITTES You're a married man, am I right? 
YELBURTON Yes... 
GITTES Hard working, have a wife and kids... 
YELBURTON Yes... 
GITTES I don't want to nail you. I just want to know who put you up to it. I'll give you a few days to think it over. (hands him a card) Call me. I can help. Who knows? Maybe we can lay the whole thing off on a few big shots and you can stay head of the department for the next twenty years. 
Gittes smiles, leaves an unsmiling Yelburton. 
INT. GITTES OFFICE 
Gittes enters, drops his hat on Sophie's desk. Sophie tries to tell him something but Gittes goes on into his office. 
EVELYN MULWRAY 
Is sitting, smoking. She looks up when he enters. 
EVELYN What's your usual salary? 
Gittes moves to his desk, barely breaking stride at the sight of her. 
GITTES Thirty-five bucks daily for me, twenty for each of my operators, plus expenses, plus my fee if I show results. 
He's sitting now. Evelyn is very pale now, obviously very shaken. 
EVELYN Whoever's behind my husband's death, why have they gone to all this trouble? 
GITTES Money. How they plan to make it by emptying the reservoirs, that I don't know. 
EVELYN I'll pay your salary plus five thousand dollars if you find out what happened to Hollis and who is involved. 
Gittes buzzes Sophie. 
GITTES Sophie, draw up one of our standard forms for Mrs. Mulwray. (he leans back; to Evelyn) Tell me, did you get married before or after Mulwray and your father sold the water department? 
Evelyn nearly jumps at the question. 
GITTES (continuing) Your father is Julian Cross, isn't he? 
EVELYN Yes, of course. It was quite a while after. I was just out of grade school when they did that. 
GITTES So you married your father's business partner? 
Evelyn nods. She lights another cigarette. 
GITTES (continuing; staring at her, points to the ashtray) You've got one going, Mrs. Mulwray. 
EVELYN Oh. 
She quickly stubs one out. 
GITTES Is there something upsetting about my asking about your father? 
EVELYN No!... Yes, a little. You see Hollis and my fa... my father had a falling out... 
GITTES Over the water department, or over you? 
EVELYN (quickly) Not over me. Why would they have a falling out over me? 
GITTES (noting her nervousness) Then it was over the water department. 
EVELYN Not exactly. Well, I mean, yes. Yes and no.  Hollis felt the public should own the water but I don't think my father felt that way.  Actually, it was over the Van der Lip. The dam that broke. 
ALBACORE CLUB – DAY 
A pleasant but unobtrusive clapboard blue and white building on the bay overlooking the harbor. The seaplane lands. A motor launch with a burgee of a fish flying from it turns and heads in the direction of the plane. 
EXT. WINDING ROAD – RANCHO DEL CRUCE 
Gittes, driven in a station wagon, passes under the sign with a cross painted below the name. 
The ranch itself is only partially in a valley on the island. As the wagon continues one can SEE that it is actually a miniature California, encompassing desert, mountains and canyon that tumble down palisades to the windward side of the sea. 
The wagon comes to a halt where a group of hands are clustered around a corral. The circle of men drift apart, leaving JULIAN CROSS standing, using a cane for support, reedy but handsome in a rough linen shirt and jeans. When he talks his strong face is lively, in repose it looks ravaged. 
EXT. BRIDLE PATH – GITTES & CROSS 
Walking toward the main house. A classic Monterey. A horse led on a halter by another ranch hand slows down and defecates in the center of the path they are taking. Gittes doesn't notice. 
CROSS Horseshit. 
Gittes pauses, not certain he has heard correctly. 
GITTES Sir? 
CROSS I said horseshit. (pointing) Horseshit. 
GITTES Yes, sir, that's what it looks like. I'll give you that. 
Cross pauses when they reach the dung pile. He removes his hat and waves it, inhales deeply. 
CROSS Love the smell of it. A lot of people do but of course they won't admit it. Look at the shape. 
Gittes glances down out of politeness. 
CROSS (continuing; smiling, almost enthusiastic) Always the same. 
Cross walks on. Gittes follows. 
GITTES (not one to let it go) Always? 
CROSS What?  Oh, damn near yes. Unless the animal's sick or something. (stops and glances. back) And the steam rising off it like that in the morning. That's life, Mr. Gittes. Life. 
They move on. 
CROSS (continuing) Perhaps this preoccupation with horseshit may seem a little perverse, but I ask you to remember this. One way or another, it's what I've dealt in all my life. Let's have breakfast. 
EXT. COURTYARD VERANDA – GITTES & CROSS AT BREAKFAST 
Below them is a corral where hands take Arabians, one by one, and work them out, letting them run and literally kick up their heels. 
Cross' attention is diverted by the animals from time to time. An impeccable Mexican butler serves them their main course, broiled fish. 
CROSS You know, you've got a nasty reputation, Mr. Gittes. I like that. 
GITTES (dubious) Thanks. 
CROSS If you were a bank president that would be one thing, but in your business it's admirable. And it's good advertising. 
GITTES It doesn't hurt. 
CROSS It's why you attract a client like my daughter. 
GITTES Probably. 
CROSS But I'm surprised you're still working for her, unless she's suddenly come up with another husband. 
GITTES No. She happens to think the last one was murdered. 
Cross is visibly surprised. 
CROSS How did she get that idea? 
GITTES I think I gave it to her. 
Cross nods. 
CROSS Uh-huh. Oh I hope you don't mind. I believe they should be served with the head. 
Gittes glances down at the fish whose isinglass eye is glazed over with the heat of cooking. 
GITTES Fine, as long as you don't serve chicken that way. 
CROSS (laughs) Tell me. What do the police say? 
GITTES They're calling it an accident. 
CROSS Who's the investigating officer? 
GITTES Lou Escobar – he's a Lieutenant. 
CROSS Do you know him? 
GITTES Oh yes. 
CROSS Where from? 
GITTES We worked in Chinatown together. 
CROSS Would you call him a capable man? 
GITTES If you want to hire me, I still have to know what you and Mulwray were arguing about. 
CROSS (painfully) Well... she's an extremely jealous person. I didn't want her to find out about the girl. 
GITTES How did you find out? 
CROSS I've still got a few teeth in my head, Mr. Gittes, and a few friends in town. 
GITTES Okay. My secretary'll send you a letter of agreement. Tell me are you worried about that girl, or what Evelyn might do to her? 
CROSS Just find the girl. 
GITTES I'll look into it as soon as I check out some avocado groves. 
CROSS Avocado groves? 
GITTES We'll be in touch, Mr. Cross. 
INT. HALL OF RECORDS – DAY 
Dark and quiet except for the whirring of fans. Gittes approaches one of the CLERKS at a desk. 
GITTES I'm a little lost. Where can I find the plat books for the northwest valley? 
The Clerk's droopy eyes widen a little. 
CLERK Part of it's in Ventura County. We don't have Ventura County in our Hall of Records. 
Which is a snotty remark. Gittes smiles. 
GITTES I'll settle for L.A. County. 
CLERK (regards him, then) Row twenty-three, section C. 
The Clerk turns away abruptly. Gittes regards his back a moment, then goes to the stacks. 
THROUGH THE STACKS 
Gittes sees the Clerk turn to another, say something. The second clerk gets on the phone. Gittes watches a moment, then swiftly turns his attention to the stacks. 
He hauls down the northwest valley volume, opens it. It's huge and there's a lot to go through. 
The print itself makes him squint. 
INSERT PAGE 
Showing TRACT, LOT, PARCEL, even a METES AND BOUNDS designation where the description of the land parcel is long and hopelessly involved e.g. '6000 paces to Rio Seco, thence 7000 paces to Loma Linda, etc.' These descriptions are old and faded. In the owners' column, however there are numerous freshly typed names pasted over the prior owners. 
GITTES Hauls the huge volume back to the Clerk's desk. 
GITTES (to Clerk) Say... uh... sonny. 
The Clerk turns sharply around. 
GITTES How come all these new names are pasted into the plat book? 
CLERK Land sales out of escrow are always recorded within the week. 
Gittes looks a little surprised. 
GITTES Then these are all new owners? 
CLERK That's right. 
GITTES (astonished) But that means that most of the valley's been sold in the last few months. 
CLERK If that's what it says. 
GITTES Can I check one of these volumes out? 
CLERK (quietly snotty) Sir, this is not a lending library, it's the Hall of Records. 
GITTES Well, then, how about a ruler? 
CLERK A ruler? 
GITTES The print's pretty fine. I forgot my glasses. I'd like to be able to read across. 
The exasperated Clerk reaches around, rummages, slaps a ruler on the desk. 
Gittes goes back to the stacks with the ruler. He opens the book, places the ruler not horizontally but vertically. 
INSERT PLAT BOOK NORTHWEST VALLEY 
Beside the OWNER column he places the ruler, looks toward the clerks, then swiftly rips down the page, tearing out a strip about two inches wide containing the owner's name and property description. As he tears, he either sniffles or coughs to cover the SOUND of the PAPER being ripped. 
EXT. ROAD – GITTES DRIVING – DAY 
Amidst a hall of shimmering dust and heat, parched and drying groves, narrower roads. 
He passes a ramshackle home, next to a rotting orchard. There is a "SOLD" sign on the collapsing barn. Gittes stops, checks it against the names he had taken from the Hall of Records. 
OLD STUCCO BUILDINGS FURTHER ON 
And a few withered pepper trees. Gittes has paused at this dried-up intersection. There is a "SOLD" sign on a drug store. Gittes looks OFF SCREEN. 
Coming INTO VIEW above the arid fields is a spiraling cloud of purple smoke. Gittes heads in that direction. 
BIG FARMER (shoving Gittes) Whyn't you pick on somebody your own size? 
RED FACED FARMER I said cut that out! Give him a chance to say something. 
Gittes looks up at the Red Faced Farmer. 
GITTES (reaching down for his wallet) Name's Gittes. I'm a private investigator and I'm not with either one. 
RED FACED FARMER Then what are you doing out here? 
GITTES Client hired me to see... whether or not the water department's been irrigating your land. 
RED FACED FARMER Irrigating my land? (exploding) The water department's been sending you people to blow up my water tanks! They threw poison down three of my wells! I call that a funny way to irrigate. Who'd hire you for a thing like that? 
Gittes reaches into his pocket. The paper's on the ground. He picks it up. 
GITTES Mrs. Evelyn Mulwray. 
BIG FARMER Mulwray? That's the son of a bitch who's done it to us. 
GITTES Mulwray's dead. You don't know what you're talking about, you dumb Oakie. 
The Big Farmer takes a swing at Gittes. Gittes kicks him squarely in the nuts, knees him in the jaw after he's doubled up, and hits him solidly. The Crippled Farmer takes careful aim and brings his crutch down on the back of Gittes' head. Gittes is knocked to the ground and lies still beside the Big Farmer who is writhing in agony in the dirt. 
RED FACED FARMER Well, that's that. 
BLACK SCREEN 
There's a PURLING SOUND, which soon becomes defined into the SOUND OF VOICES talking quietly – about whether to move or not to move, doctors, etc. 
CLOSE – EVELYN MULWRAY 
Is staring down at Gittes who's lying in the screened in porch of the farmers. His wife, the Red Faced Farmer, and the Big Farmer are there, along with the dog. 
The Red Faced Farmer's wife has set tea out. The farmers, all of them, now seem awkward and a little embarrassed. 
FRONT PORCH – RED FACE FARMER'S HOUSE – REACTION – GITTES – DUSK 
He focuses on Evelyn who sits right next to him. He's got dried blood down the side of his face from his nose, a huge mouse on his cheek, and his clothes are torn in a couple of spots. 
GITTES (to Evelyn) What's going on? 
DUBOIS (quietly, almost as if he were in a hospital) You didn't look too good, so we thought we better call your employer. 
Gittes nods. He checks his watch. He looks out. It's almost evening. 
Gittes says nothing. The wife of the Red Faced Farmer (DUBOIS) looks reproachfully at Dubois. Gittes feels the back of his head, It obviously hurts him. 
EXT. DUBOIS FARMHOUSE – EVENING 
Evelyn and Gittes go out to her car, the cream colored Packard. 
Dubois accompanies them, along with the Big Farmer who is carrying a crate of something. Gittes has cleaned himself up a little. 
DUBOIS Look here, if it's all the same with you, we'll get your car patched up. If you'll tell me what your trousers run you, I'll make good on them, Mr. Gittes. 
GITTES It's okay, Mr. Dubois. 
DUBOIS, (to Evelyn) It's just that they're after everybody out here, tearing up our irrigation ditches trying to make our land worthless so they can pick it up for twenty-five dollars an acre. 
Gittes nods. 
DUBOIS (continuing) Anyway. Earl here is sorry, too. He wants to give you something to take back with you. 
Gittes looks. Earl has the huge crate he's holding brim-full of avocados. 
GITTES Thanks, Earl. 
INT. CAR – EVELYN & GITTES – DUSK 
Evelyn driving. 
GITTES Thanks for coming... 
Gittes pulls out cigarette case, takes one, offers one to Evelyn who refuses. 
GITTES That dam is a con job. 
EVELYN What dam? 
GITTES The one your husband opposed. They're conning L.A. into building it, only the water won't go to L.A. It'll go here. 
EVELYN The Valley? 
GITTES Everything you can see, everything around us. I was at the Hall of Records today. (whips out papers, turns on the car light) That bother you? 
EVELYN No. 
GITTES (looking over papers) In the last three months, Robert Knox has bought 7,000 acres, Emma Dill 12,000 acres, Clarence Speer 5,000 acres, and Jasper Lamar Crabb 25,000 acres. 
EVELYN Jasper Lamar Crabb? 
GITTES Know him? 
EVELYN No, I think I'd remember. 
GITTES Yeah. They've been blowing these farmers out of here and buying their land for peanuts. Have any idea what this land'll be worth with a steady water supply? About thirty million more than they paid. 
GITTES They may not know it but they are. 
Gittes strolls toward the women knitting and working on the quilt. 
GITTES Hello, girls. 
Two of the ladies giggle. The third continues to busy herself with her quilt, off by herself. 
GITTES (continuing) Which one of you is Emma Dill? 
Two of them say "she is," and point in different directions. The third gives them a curt look and goes back to her knitting. Gittes approaches her. 
GITTES Are you Emma? 
Some old voice is singing softly, "Don't Sit Under the Apple Tree." 
EMMA Yes. 
GITTES I've been wanting to meet you. 
EMMA Why? 
GITTES Did you know that you're a very wealthy woman? 
EMMA (stitching, smiles) I'm not. 
GITTES Well you own a lot of land. 
EMMA Not anymore. Oh, some time ago, my late husband owned a good deal of beach property in Long Beach, but we lost it. 
Gittes looks at the quilt. In it is the head of a fish among the rest of the crazy quilt pattern. Gittes spots it. 
GITTES That's just lovely. 
EMMA Thank you... 
He looks through the quilt for other pieces of the fish, comes across the tail and by it the initials A.C. 
GITTES (indicating tail) Where did you get this material? 
EMMA (what it sounds like) The apple core club. 
GITTES The apple core? 
EMMA No. The albacore. It's a fish. My grandson's a member and they take very nice care of us. 
GITTES How do they do that? 
EMMA Give us things. Not just some old flag like this, but –- 
GITTES (kneeling) But what? 
PALMER'S VOICE We're a sort of unofficial charity of theirs, Mr. Gittes. Would you care to come this way? Someone wants to see you. 
Gittes looks up, sees Palmer standing in the doorway, looking taut and a little drawn. Evelyn is beside him. She gestures as if there's someone behind Palmer. 
Gittes rises. 
GITTES See you later, Emma. 
He walks toward Palmer who waits for him to walk in front. 
AT THE ENTRANCE HALL – MULVIHILL 
Is waiting. He's got his hand in his pocket. Evelyn looks to Gittes. 
The four of them stand there, Mulvihill towering over everyone. 
MULVIHILL Come on I want you to meet somebody, Gittes. 
GITTES (glancing from Palmer to Mulvihill) Can we leave the lady out of this? 
MULVIHILL (a little uncertain) Yeah, why not? 
GITTES Okay, I'd like to walk her to her car. 
EVELYN I'll stay. 
GITTES (taking her by the arm) Get in the car. 
MULVIHILL I'll see she makes it. 
Mulvihill has walked up beside Gittes. He makes the mistake of opening the glass door in the entryway, putting his back to Gittes for a moment. Gittes swiftly pulls Mulvihill's jacket up over his head. He spins him around. With his jacket covering his face, Gittes hammers away at Mulvihlll, beating him against the glass door, along the wall, mercilessly pounding his fists into the cloth until the cloth turns red and Mulvihill begins to sink to the red tile floor. 
Palmer screams. Evelyn stands there astonished. Mulvihill's gun has clattered to the floor. 
GITTES (as Mulvihill hits the floor, to Evelyn) What are you waiting for? Get in the car! 
Evelyn goes. 
Mulvihill tries to get up again. Palmer starts to go for the gun, nearly picking it up. Gittes slaps it out of his hand and kicks it. 
It goes flying down the hall, at least thirty feet; hits the wall. 
Palmer goes screaming off into the night. Gittes turns back to Mulvihill who starts to get up, then collapses. 
Gittes goes out the front door, ignoring the excited audience of ancients behind him. 
EVELYN (continuing) Boy oh boy, you're a mess. 
GITTES Yeah. 
EVELYN (working on him) So why does it bother you to talk about it... Chinatown... 
GITTES Bothers everybody who works there, but to me... It was... 
Gittes shrugs. 
EVELYN Hold still. Why? 
GITTES You can't always tell what's going on there. 
EVELYN ...No. Why was it. 
GITTES I thought I was keeping someone from being hurt and actually I ended up making sure they were hurt. 
EVELYN Could you do anything about it? 
They're very close now as she's going over a mouse very near his eye. 
GITTES Yeah. Make sure I don't find myself in Chinatown anymore. Wait a second. 
He takes hold of her and pulls her even closer, 
EVELYN (momentarily freezing) What's wrong? 
GITTES Your eye. 
EVELYN What about it? 
GITTES (staring intently) There's something black in the green part of your eye. 
EVELYN (not moving) Oh that... It's a flaw in the iris... 
GITTES ...A flaw... 
EVELYN (she almost shivers) ...Yes, sort of a birthmark... 
Gittes kisses her lightly, gradually rises until he's standing holding her. She hesitates, then wraps her arms around him. 
INT. MULWRAY BEDROOM – TELEPHONE 
On a nightstand, city lights visible through the open window behind it. It is RINGING. Evelyn's arm reaches INTO SHOT. SOUND of something hitting the headboard. Gittes moans. 
VIEW SHIFTS TO INCLUDE Gittes in bed, holding his head, which he's just hit. Evelyn pauses in her reach to the phone. She turns to him, whispers, "I'm sorry," kisses him on the head and lips. PHONE CONTINUES TO RING. She picks it up. 
EVELYN Hello... (in Spanish now) No, no, I'll come and help, just keep watching her and don't do anything until I get there... 'bye. 
VIEW SHIFTS AGAIN TO INCLUDE Gittes in bed, watching Evelyn next to him as she's talking on the phone. She hangs up. She touches Gittes' cheek lightly. 
EVELYN I have to go. 
Gittes stares at her silently. 
GITTES Where? 
EVELYN Just... I have to. 
GITTES And I want to know where. 
EVELYN (she starts out of bed) Please don't be angry... believe me, it's got nothing to do with you. 
GITTES (stopping her) Where are you going? 
EVELYN (near tears) Please!... Trust me this much... (she kisses him lightly) I'll be back. Look, there is something I should tell you. The fishing club that old lady mentioned, the pieces off the flag. 
GITTES The Albacore Club. 
EVELYN It has to do with my father. 
GITTES I know. 
EVELYN He owns it. You know? 
GITTES I saw him. 
EVELYN (sitting up straight) You saw my fa... father? When? 
GITTES This morning. 
EVELYN (panicked) You didn't tell me. 
GITTES There hasn't been a lot of time. 
She leaps out of bed, throwing on a robe. 
EVELYN What did he say? (insistent) What did he say? 
GITTES That you were jealous, and he was worried about what you might do. 
EVELYN Do? To who? 
GITTES Mulwray's girlfriend, for one thing. He wanted to know where she was. 
Evelyn starts quickly for the bathroom, then comes back and kneels by the side of the bed, takes Gittes' hand. 
EVELYN She's not tied up! 
GITTES You know what I mean. You're keeping her there against her will. 
EVELYN I am not! 
GITTES Then let's go talk to her. 
Gittes starts to get out of the car. Evelyn grabs his arm, nearly screaming: 
EVELYN No! 
Her intensity actually rips Gittes' already partially torn jacket. 
He looks at it and her. It seems to have a momentary calming effect on both of them. 
EVELYN (continuing) She's too upset. 
GITTES What about? 
EVELYN Hollis' death. I tried to keep it from her, I didn't want her upset before I could make plans for her to leave. 
GITTES You mean she just found out? 
EVELYN Yes. 
GITTES That's not what it looks like, Mrs. Mulwray. 
EVELYN What does it look like? 
GITTES Like she knows about Hollis' death. Like she knows more than you want her to tell. 
EVELYN You're insane. 
Gittes explodes. 
GITTES Just tell me the truth. I'm not the police. I don't care what you've done. I'm not going to hurt you, but one way or another I'm going to know. 
EVELYN You won't go to the police if I tell you? 
GITTES I will if you don't. 
A long pause. Evelyn's head sinks onto the steering wheel, her hair covering her face. 
EVELYN She's my sister. 
Evelyn is breathing very deeply now. Not crying, but the kind of deep breathing that comes from real hysteria. Gittes puts an arm on her shoulder. 
GITTES Take it easy... If it's your sister it's your sister... why all the secrecy? 
She lifts her head and looks up at him. He's genuinely puzzled. 
EVELYN (really upset) I can't... 
GITTES Because of Hollis? Because she was seeing your husband? Was that it? Jesus Christ, say something. Was that it? 
She nods. Gittes sighs. 
EVELYN (finally) I would never ever have harmed Hollis. I loved him more than my own family. He was the most gentle, decent man imaginable... and he put up with more from me than you'll ever know... I just wanted him to be happy... 
She begins to cry softly. 
GITTES (after a moment) I took your husband's Buick... (he opens the car door) I'll return it tomorrow. 
EVELYN Aren't you coming back with me? 
GITTES Don't worry. I'm not telling anybody about this. 
EVELYN ...That's not what I meant. 
There is a long moment of silence. Gittes looks over to Evelyn. Her hair covers most of her face from him. 
GITTES (finally) Yeah, well... I'm very tired, Mrs. Mulwray. Good night. 
He gets out and slams the car door. She drives off. 
INT. SHOWER – GITTES' APARTMENT – GITTES 
The spray is hitting him full on the top of the head. Gittes is so exhausted he's literally holding onto the nozzle as the water pours down. He shuts the shower off, reaches weakly for a towel, dabs his nose lightly with it. 
INT. GITTES' BEDROOM – GITTES 
Pads around in elegant silk pajamas. 
He walks over to the window where morning light is streaming in. He closes the curtains, collapses on the bed, on top of the covers, inert. Almost immediately the PHONE RINGS. Gittes lets it go on for a moment, then picks it up without saying anything. 
VOICE ON PHONE (male) Gittes?... Gittes? 
GITTES Yeah. 
VOICE ON PHONE Ida Sessions wants to see you. 
GITTES Who? 
VOICE 0N PHONE Ida Sessions, you remember Ida. 
Gittes slowly rises to one elbow. 
Of bungalow Gittes watches Evelyn, the girl and Kyo head for Kyo's black dusty sedan. 
Gittes drops the curtain, heads swiftly to the phone. He dials. 
GITTES Sophie... is Walsh there?... yeah, listen, pal, Escobar's going to try and book me in about five minutes... relax, I'll tell you. Wait in the office for two hours. If you don't hear from me, you and Duffy meet me at 1712 Alameda. 
WALSH'S VOICE Jesus, that's in Chinatown, ain't it? 
The front BELL RINGS. 
GITTES I know where it is! Just do it. 
Gittes hangs up and goes to the door. He opens it. No one is there. 
GITTES (not even bothering to look around the sides) Come on in, Lou. We're both too late. 
Escobar and his minions appear from either side of the door. 
GITTES Looks like she flew the coop. 
Escobar nods. 
ESCOBAR I don't suppose you got any idea Where she went? 
GITTES Matter of fact I do. 
ESCOBAR Where? 
GITTES Her maid's house. I think she knows something's up. 
ESCOBAR What's the maid's address? 
GITTES She lives in Pedro. I'll write it down for you. 
ESCOBAR No, Gittes, you'll show us. 
GITTES What for? 
ESCOBAR If she's not there, you're going downtown, and you're staying there til she shows up. 
GITTES (deliberately petulant) Gee, Lou, I'm doing the best I can. 
ESCOBAR (shoving him toward the door) Tell us about it on the way to Pedro. 
EXT. SAN PEDRO – 29TH STREET – DAY 
A steep hill overlooks part of the harbor. Escobar's unmarked car pulls up to a stop in front of a Spanish duplex perched on the steep hillside. 
ESCOBAR That's it? 
GITTES Yeah. 
ESCOBAR Well, let's go. 
GITTES Do me a favor, will you, Lou? 
Escobar waits. 
GITTES (continuing) Let me bring her down myself... she's not armed or nothing... she won't be any problem... I'd just like a minute alone with her... It would mean something... to...  her... and to me. 
Escobar shakes his head. For a moment it looks like it means no. 
ESCOBAR You never learn, do you, Gittes? 
GITTES (a little chagrined) I guess not. 
ESCOBAR Give you three minutes. 
GITTES Gee, thanks, Lou. 
Gittes gets out of the car, glances around, goes up the stairs. He looks back down at Escobar. Gittes rings the bell. He waits. It opens. It's a WOMAN who's not recognizable. She's got the remnants of a black eye. 
WOMAN Yes?... 
Gittes looks past her to Curly, the fisherman from the first scene. 
He's seated at the dinner table with his father, his mother, and his children. Curly looks up in surprise. 
CURLY (happily) Mr. Gittes! Come in, come in. 
Gittes enters and closes the door. Curly rises and comes over to him, greets him happily. 
CURLY Gee, this is a surprise, Mr. Gittes. 
GITTES Call me Jake. How is everything? 
CURLY Just sitting down to supper, Jake. Care to join us? 
GITTES No thanks. 
CURLY How about a glass of wine? Honey, this is... 
WIFE (coolly) Yes, I know. 
GITTES Thanks just the same, Curly. I could use a glass of water, though. Come out with me to the kitchen for a second. 
CURLY (puzzled) Sure thing. 
CROSS Yes... I think I can manage... 
Cross dips into his coat pocket and pulls out a pair of rimless glasses.. He puts them on, reads. 
GITTES 
Stares at the bifocal lenses as Cross continues to look through the obituary column. He looks up. 
CROSS What does this mean? 
GITTES That you killed Hollis Mulwray. 
Gittes is holding the bifocals with the broken lens now. 
GITTES Right here, in this pond. You drowned him...  and you left these. 
Cross looks at the glasses. 
GITTES ...the coroner's report showed Mulwray had salt water in his lungs. 
CROSS (finally) Hollie was always fond of tide-pools. You know what he used to say about them? 
GITTES Haven't the faintest idea. 
CROSS That's where life begins... marshes, sloughs, tide-pools... he was fascinated by them...  you know when we first came out here he figured that if you dumped water onto desert sand it would percolate down into the bedrock and stay there, instead of evaporating the way it does in most reservoirs. You'd lose only twenty percent instead of seventy or eighty. He made this city. 
GITTES And that's what you were going to do in the Valley? 
EXT. POND – CROSS AND GITTES 
CROSS (after a long moment) No, Mr. Gittes. That's what I am doing with the Valley. The bond issue passes Tuesday. There'll be ten million to build an aqueduct and reservoir. I'm doing it. 
GITTES There's going to be some irate citizens when they find out they're paying for water they're not getting. 
CROSS That's all taken care of. You see, Mr. Gittes. Either you bring the water to L.A. or you bring L.A. to the water. 
GITTES How do you do that? 
CROSS Just incorporate the Valley into the city so the water goes to L.A. after all. It's very simple. 
Gittes nods. 
GITTES (then) How much are you worth? 
CROSS (shrugs, then) I have no idea. How much do you want? 
GITTES I want to know what you're worth. Over ten million? 
CROSS Oh, my, yes. 
GITTES Then why are you doing it? How much better can you eat? What can you buy that you can't already afford? 
CROSS (a long moment, then:) The future, Mr. Gittes. The future. Now where's the girl?... I want the only daughter I have left... as you found out, Evelyn was lost to me a long time ago. 
GITTES (with sarcasm) Who do you blame for that? Her? 
Cross makes a funny little cock of his head. 
CROSS I don't blame myself. You see, Mr. Gittes, most people never have to face the fact that at the right time and right place, they're capable of anything. Take those glasses from him, will you, Claude? 
Mulvihill moves INTO VIEW. Extends his hand for the glasses. Gittes doesn't move. 
CROSS It's not worth it, Mr. Gittes. It's really not worth it. 
Gittes hands over the glasses. 
CROSS Take us to the girl. Either Evelyn allows me to see her, or I'm not averse to seeing Evelyn in jail. If I have to buy the jail. Hollis and Evelyn kept her from me for fifteen years. It's been too long, I'm too old. 
EXT. CHINATOWN STREET – NIGHT 
The streets are crowded. Here and there one can see Chinese in traditional dress. 
GITTES 
Driving slowly, spots Katherine with Ramon and luggage, nearly lost in the crowd. They are walking toward a car parked near a laundry truck. 
Gittes sees them, keeps driving. 
CROSS (suddenly) Stop the car. Stop the car! 
Mulvihill tries to clobber Gittes. Gittes elbows him. The car jumps the curb and hits a lamppost. 
EXT. STREET – CROSS 
Leaps out of the car shouting: 
CROSS Katherine! Katherine! Wait! 
Gittes is after him, grabbing him. Cross tries to swing at Gittes with his cane. Mulvihill comes up behind Gittes and the three of them begin an awkward wrestling match, the crowd scattering, Mulvihill pulling his revolver, trying to hit Gittes on the side of the head. The three men crash to the pavement. 
CURLY 
Starts out of the car toward Gittes. Gittes sees him. 
GITTES No, Curly, get 'em out of here! Get 'em out of here! 
He bites Mulvihill's hand and furiously pounds it into the sidewalk, shaking gun loose. Mulvihill and Gittes try for it but someone else has it. 
