CHRONICLE 
Written by 
Max Landis 
Based on a story by 
Josh Trank and Max Landis 
FROM ANDREW'S FIRST CAMERA. 
CUT - to indicate time lapses within a scene 
INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM 
The room is dingy. Unkempt. The camera sits on the bed, on its side, facing the door. We can hear someone moving around off screen. 
The door handle clicks; someone's trying it.    Then nothing. Then, suddenly, loud pounding on the door. 
Andrew's voice is scratchy and prone to cracking.   He speaks with a rushed mix of fear and anxiety. 
ANDREW (O.S.) What do you want, I'm getting ready for school- 
MR. DETMER (O.S.) Why is the door locked, unlock this fucking door right now. 
The bed stirs as Andrew sits down. 
MR. DETMER (O.S.) (CONT'D) I said unlock this door. UNLOCK THE DOOR. OPEN THE DOOR, NOW. 
ANDREW (O.S.) You're drunk- 
MR. DETMER (O.S.) Listen, you don't tell me- IF I'M DRUNK, OR- 
ANDREW (O.S.) It's seven thirty. In the AM. You're drunk, dad, that's crazy- 
MR. DETMER (O.S.) What're you doing in there. 
ANDREW (O.S.) I'm filming this. 
MR. DETMER (O.S.) What? 
ANDREW (O.S.) I bought a camera. I'm filming all your shit from now on. 
There's a beat, and then we can hear Mr. Detmer moving away from the door. 
INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - SANDRA DETMER'S ROOM 
Equally dingy. SANDRA DETMER, gaunt and sickly, is sat up in bed. Andrew's filming her. She's clearly very ill, speaking in a weak rasp. Andrew now holds the camera. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Mom? Will you say hi to the camera? 
SANDRA DETMER Who's the audience? 
ANDREW (O.S.) The millions of people watching at home. 
SANDRA DETMER Hello world. Do I look awful? 
ANDREW (O.S.) No, you look great. 
SANDRA DETMER I've been looking a little better, yeah? 
ANDREW (O.S.) (CONT'D) Okay, okay. 
INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - HALLWAY 
Andrew's filming himself putting stuff in his locker, and does a quick sweep of the crowded school hallway. 
ANDREW (O.S.) This is my school, I guess.   This is the hallway- 
GIRL Vote "Kaz!" 
A girl suddenly approaches, awkwardly handing Andrew a flyer. 
GIRL (CONT'D) Vote Steve Kazinsky for Senior class president! 
ANDREW (O.S.) ...yeah- 
GIRL Every vote counts. 
Andrew films the flyer for a moment, brightly colored and featuring a picture of a smiling Steve Kazinsky, before something yanks the camera away. 
For the first time we see ANDREW Detmer, 17, pale, awkward and gangly, with long, stringy hair and thin, scraggly beard. He looks anxious, if not afraid. 
BRYCE (O.S.) Yo this camera is a piece of shit. It's like from 2004 or some shit. 
WAYNE, 17, big and hateable in his Ed Hardy T-shirt, appears wrapping his arm roughly around Andrew. 
WAYNE Hey, how do I look? (starts muscle posing) Like this? Ooh, that's good.   Like this? That's sexy, right? 
ANDREW Bryce, gimme my camera back- 
BRYCE (O.S.) Fuck you Andrew, shut up.   This camera's a piece of shit. 
WAYNE You got me, let's go. Wayne turns and knocks everything out of Andrew's locker. Bryce starts to walk away with the camera. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Hey, Bryce, come on, give it back- 
The camera is set down on the ground, and then abruptly kicked back to Andrew. He picks it up, checking on it. 
ANDREW (CONT'D) (quietly, sad) Oh come on... 
EXT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - FOOTBALL FIELD 
A view from the bleachers as the soccer team practices. The cheerleaders are practicing too. We cut: a different view, lower. 
ANDREW (O.S.) This is where I eat lunch, out here on the bleachers. 
CUT.   LATER. 
The camera's next to Andrew as he's eating, down on the bench. A CHEERLEADER approaches. 
CHEERLEADER Hi. 
ANDREW Hey- 
CHEERLEADER Could you not videotape us, please? It's really fucking creepy. 
ANDREW I wasn't, videotaping you, so much as I was just- 
CHEERLEADER                           ANDREW Just don't videotape-              -you know, filming what I do during the- 
CHEERLEADER Don't videotape us, okay, or we'll call security. We see you watching us, we're not stupid, and it's sketchy, so back off. 
ANDREW (O.S.) What were you guys doing out here? This is way out- 
STEVE Me and your cousin were blazing a little. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Matt's out here? 
STEVE A bunch of people were out here, but I think they've all gone back, now, cause we're like, obsessed with the thing. 
ANDREW (O.S.) The what? 
CUT. 
They're in the woods now, thick and dizzying. It's near silent but their feet crushing the Fall leaves on the ground. Steve walks out ahead. 
STEVE Andrew Detmer, that's right.   I remember you from homeroom, Freshman year. 
ANDREW (O.S.) You remember that? STEVE Yeah, I have a memory for faces. I'm gonna go into politics, which is ironic because I'm soooo fucking high right now- probably shouldn't be letting you videotape this- 
ANDREW (O.S.) I'm gonna be so rich when you're president, you have no idea- 
STEVE Yeah, video footage of me luring you into the woods for gay sex- wait, hey- HEY, MATT, IS THIS IT? 
MATT (O.S.) Down here! 
ANDREW (O.S.) Matt? 
The camera turns to reveal Matt, standing next to some kind of craggy hole in the ground, at the base of a hill in the woods. It's big, but the darkness beyond is impenetrable to the camera. It looks like a big black spot. 
STEVE There we go. There it is. 
CUT. 
Andrew and Steve are now down with Matt by the hole. Andrew is keeping the camera fixed squarely on the murky blackness, nervous. 
STEVE (V.O.) Where is everybody? 
MATT They all left. 
ANDREW (O.S.) We're not supposed to be out here. 
STEVE Is it still making the sound? 
MATT Yeah.   Did you tell Andrew? 
STEVE Oh, Andrew, it's making a sound- 
MATT Here, listen. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Guys- 
STEVE You've got to get really close to hear it. 
Andrew takes a tentative step towards the hole. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Guys, just don't like- don't push me, or do anything like that- 
STEVE (O.S.) You've got to go closer.     Like almost inside it. 
There's a beat. 
MATT We're not going to push you, we just wanna get it on tape. 
Steve laughs, and turns, going back into the darkness. Andrew follows. 
CUT. 
Matt's face is suddenly in front of the camera. 
MATT -shouldn't have come in here. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Steve's up ahead- 
MATT At first I thought this was a solutional cave, but now...I dunno, it's like a lava tube, or something. 
ANDREW (O.S.) I don't know what you're talking about. 
MATT Look at the walls. Look at how smooth they are. It's just straight shot down, I mean, we must've already gone forty or fifty feet- ANDREW (O.S.) Don't talk about it, you're making me nervous. 
MATT You ever hear of Plato's allegory of the cave? 
ANDREW (O.S.) No. 
MATT Nevermind. 
CUT. 
Walking. Darkness. The cave is even tighter now. The light flickers, some kind of electrical disturbance, then goes out completely We hear Andrew curse, fumbling with it, and the nightvision mode comes on. 
CUT. 
The nightvision is scrambling badly.   All the forms are distorted and then- 
STEVE (O.S.) Can you believe this, this is NUTS- 
The nightvision is turned off, revealing Matt. They've come into a larger chamber in the cave, one somehow lit from within; the boys are bathed in a softly pulsing turquoise glow. 
They speak loudly, clearly talking over something we can't hear. 
MATT Is that, is that showing up on the camera? 
ANDREW (O.S.) I don't wanna film it, it's messing with the camera- 
Matt forcibly turns the camera, to reveal Steve standing next to some kind of massive crystalline rock structure growing from, or maybe embedded in, the wall. Around it, and him, float wispy little clouds of light, turquoise and beautiful. 
Steve is clearly entranced, sweeping his hands through the light. STEVE Touch one! 
We see Matt, now also surrounded by the little aurora borealis like clouds, touch one; it comes apart in a silent little explosion of light, beautiful. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Guys maybe...maybe we shouldn't... 
A light cloud passes in front of Andrew, and we sees his hand to extend to touch it. The subsequent little light burst badly warps the camera, clearly permanent damage. 
CUT. 
Andrew is now very near to the crystalline structure; viewed up close, it's almost arachnid, organic somehow. The light clouds have turned yellow. Matt is practically inside the structure, pressing it with his palms. 
MATT -changes color, see? It must be reacting to the heat, some kind of exothermic reaction- 
ANDREW (O.S.) WHAT? I can't hear you over the- you know- 
STEVE Make it change again!    This is awesome! 
Matt presses with his palms. There's a low sustained hiss as the light clouds turn an angry shade of red. A stream of them is released from beneath the structure. The camera jerks suddenly, revealing Steve, who's clutching his ears. 
INT. MATT'S KITCHEN 
Steve is very intently using his newfound powers to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, knife shakily moving over bread. The camera is set down on the counter, Matt and Andrew watching. 
ANDREW The trick is to pretend like it's on a plate. You get it on the plate and then you wrap the plate around it, and you can move it however you want. 
STEVE Mhm. 
MATT I've been pretending I was like, holding it in a fist, like a floating hand. 
ANDREW Yeah?   Plate's easier for me. 
STEVE Guys, check it out. 
Steve has a glob of jelly and a glob of peanut butter floating freely. They slap together and then down onto the bread, which slaps closed. 
STEVE (CONT'D) Ha! (notices his bloody nose) Shit, shit- 
INT. MATT'S ROOM - LATER 
Matt's room is covered in band posters, kind of a mess. Matt's sitting on the floor by a desk, slowly assembling a LEGO set with his telekinetic abilities. Andrew's filming from the bed, where he's laying down. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Try to imagine that your squeezing the entire piece in your hand. 
MATT That's what I'm doing, it's just, it's hard. You're better at this than me, you do it. 
ANDREW (mocking) Really? Andrew points at the lego set, and it flies together. 
MATT (wowed, laughing) Dude, holy shit! 
CUT. 
Andrew and Matt are laughing as Steve enters, holding out his cell phone. 
STEVE Guys, listen, listen.   Samantha. 
Steve puts his voice-mail on speaker.   SAMANTHA Pezon, 16, sounds a bit frustrated. 
SAMANTHA (ON PHONE) I know you're over at that guy Matt's house right now, okay, cause they said you didn't show up for soccer practice, but you said the only reason you couldn't come see Bound By Love with me was because of soccer practice, so...You know, I just, I don't know what to think. I feel like we never hang out anymore, you've just been hanging out with those two guys for the last like three weeks, and I...ugh, call me back. 
STEVE What would you suggest, as like, a course of action for me, here? 
MATT Why are you asking US for advice on girls? 
ANDREW (O.S.) Because we're his mistress. 
Steve laughs. 
INT. STEVE'S CAR - NIGHT 
Steve is driving Andrew home. 
STEVE -new camera's working out for you, that's good. CUT. 
STEVE (CONT'D) I have to admit, though, I don't understand the filming thing. 
ANDREW (O.S.) I told you, it's just my thing for right now. 
STEVE You don't feel like it's a little weird? Like it puts a barrier between you and everything? 
ANDREW (O.S.) Maybe I want a barrier. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Couldn't that metaphor just be for any muscle in the human body, like working out or- 
STEVE No, I like braingina.   Braingina is the shiiiiit. 
Steve floats up a bunch of chips from his bag, and then rapid fires them into his mouth. 
ANDREW (O.S.) I think it's time we took this out of the backyard. Matt and Steve look confused. 
INT. STEVE'S CAR 
Steve is driving, Matt's shotgun, Andrew's filming from the back. 
STEVE If anyone criticizes you, just call them a hater. It's like calling someone a racist, they'll just drop whatever they're complaining about and be like "I'M NOT A HATER." Nobody wants to be a hater. 
EXT. WAL-MART 
Matt and Steve are walking in, Andrew lagging behind filming. 
STEVE (CONT'D) Just stay back a little ways, yeah- 
ANDREW (O.S.) I got it. 
INT. WAL-MART 
The guys are trying to stay out of sight, looking down an aisle where shoppers stand. 
STEVE (O.S.) That girl, with the cart. 
A frumpy woman with a shopping cart suddenly starts pulling on the cart. It suddenly breaks away from her, and goes careening down the aisle by itself, her chasing after it. We can hear the guys cracking up, trying to stay quiet. 
MATT (O.S.) She's chasing- she's chasing it- 
CUT. 
Toy aisle. A toddler is looking at teddy bears. 
ANDREW (O.S.) I got this. One of the teddy bears suddenly comes to life, waving at the little boy. The little boy is wowed. The teddy bear suddenly takes off and flies through the air. Again the stifled laughter. 
STEVE (O.S.) Oh my god Andrew, look- 
Andrew pans up to reveal a woman at the end of the aisle; she saw everything, and is looking around, wide eyed. 
CUT. 
They're by the check out. 
MATT (O.S.) See that guy chewing gum? 
ANDREW (O.S.) Umm... (camera finds the guy) Got him. 
MATT I'm gonna get the gum right out of his mouth- watch this. 
There's suddenly a little air ripple in front of the man's mouth, and he's yanked face first into the gum and candy rack, which all crashes apart. The guys all crack up and start running. 
STEVE (laughing) GUYS, WHY ARE WE RUNNING!? We don't need to run, we don't need to run! 
EXT. FIELD - SUNSET 
Matt sits on the hood of a car.   He and Andrew are flinging rocks with their powers. 
MATT That was a good one, you got that one far. 
Andrew holds out said wrapper in front of the camera. 
MATT That's like, at least twice as much blood as I usually see on a taco bell wrapper. 
STEVE Guys, guys. Look. 
The camera moves around to show the woman returning to the space where her car was parked. She stops, baffled, and looks around. We hear the guys stifle laughter. 
She notices her car parked up ahead and walks over to it, looking around. Andrew tries to get a better angle, and she notices him, and stares. 
STEVE (O.S.) (CONT'D) Ignore us! 
MATT (O.S.) We're (beat) Mormons! 
The woman stares a moment longer, and goes to her car. 
INT. MATT'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER 
Matt's driving, Steve's shotgun, Andrew filming from the back. It's raining. 
MATT -sfucking insane, we just changed her life. We did- 
ANDREW (O.S.) Her face, I can't get her face out of my head. 
STEVE That was fucking great. I mean, this just gives me so many ideas, already, stuff we could do- 
There's honking from outside. 
MATT Oh come on, what is this? 
STEVE He's like right on your bumper, too. 
Matt rolls down the window and gives the signal to pass. More honking. 
MATT Can you fucking believe this guy? 
STEVE He's just some asshole redneck, look at him. He's fucking with us. 
They are driving out over a bridge in the woods. 
MATT I don't know what to do, what should I- 
ANDREW (O.S.) (laughing) Here, take the camera, take the camera. 
He hands off the camera to Steve; now we see Andrew sitting in the back seat. Behind him, through the back window, we can see a pick-up truck, honking, way too close. 
ANDREW (CONT'D) Abracadabra. 
Andrew flicks his hand at the truck. The effect is instantaneous: THE FRONT OF THE TRUCK CAVES IN LIKE IT JUST HIT A BRICK WALL, WHAM, AND SENDING IT CRASHING OFF THE BRIDGE, OUT AND DOWN AND INTO THE WATER. STEVE (O.S.) ...I...what... 
EXT. THE BRIDGE 
The camera is being held loosely at Steve's side; everything's upside-down, and we can't see anything, but can hear the guys are clearly freaked out. 
MATT (O.S.) What the fuck did you do, man, what the fuck- 
ANDREW (O.S.) I didn't mean to, I didn't- 
MATT (O.S.) Fuck! SHIT! What's wrong with you, look at this, fuck! 
STEVE (O.S.) Is he still in there? If he's in there we have to get him out- 
Steve seems lost for words. 
ANDREW (O.S.) I- 
MATT We need rules, okay. Rule #1, you can't use it on living things. Rule #2, you can't use it when you're angry- 
ANDREW (O.S.) You can't just declare rules, you're not- MATT I will fucking declare rules, okay? If we keep going, and getting stronger, we need rules. We need rules. (beat) Damn it Andrew turn off the cam- 
SNAP TO BLACK. 
INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM 
It's morning. The camera lays on the bed.     Andrew can be heard breathing. 
CUT.   LATER. 
The camera moves, and is picked up, following a spider as it moves across the floor. It crawls up onto the side of the bed, then onto the sheets. Andrew's finger points at it. 
The spider is telekinetically lifted into the air.    It hangs struggling there for a moment, then becomes rigid. 
He spreads his fingers, and the spider abruptly separates into all of its component parts. They stop moving, hanging lifeless. 
Andrew's home phone rings, and he drops the spider.    Rings again. 
MR. DETMER (O.S.) (from downstairs) Andrew! Answer the fucking phone! 
INT. MATT'S CAR - STEVE'S STREET 
Andrew's filming Matt from shotgun. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Did he say what it was about?   When he called, what did he say? 
Matt's quiet. 
ANDREW (O.S.) (CONT'D) Are you still mad at me? 
MATT I'm not mad. 
ANDREW (O.S.) (beat) You seem mad. 
MATT ...Power corrupts, is all I'm saying, man. 
ANDREW What does that even mean? 
MATT I just mean that we have to think about things more now, okay? We can't just DO things, we have to think first. 
ANDREW ...I understand. 
MATT It's just- nah, nevermind, we're here. 
EXT. STEVE'S HOUSE - MORNING 
The house is big and nice, somewhat isolated.    Matt is walking up ahead of Andrew to the door. 
STEVE (O.S.) Hey kids. 
Matt stops, and both Matt and Andrew look around. 
MATT Steve?   Where are you? 
CUT. 
STEVE Yes you do, you have a talent, you have a talent. 
ANDREW (O.S.) (getting it) ...Oh, no way. No way- 
INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - SANDRA DETMER'S ROOM 
Sandra's in bed, sicker than ever. 
SANDRA DETMER You look handsome. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Yeah, Steve chose my clothes, he's gonna do my hair. 
SANDRA DETMER I'm glad you are spending so much time with your friends. 
ANDREW (O.S.) Oh yeah, me too. 
CUT. 
Andrew's camera is down at his side. MR. DETMER (O.S.) -getting to school? 
ANDREW I don't know what you mean- 
MR. DETMER (O.S.) Don't bullshit me idiot. Matt doesn't come, he don't drive up. You leave the house, and who the fuck is giving you rides to school? 
ANDREW Matt. 
MR. DETMER No, wrong. Something's fucking going on with you, you can't hide it. Think you can slink around, sneaking- sneaking around the house, smiling, I know your shit. And we ain't got no more fucking money for your mother's pain medication, either. 
ANDREW ...I'm sorry, I'll try to- 
MR. DETMER Sorry isn't good enough, fuck up! You're a fuck up. You fuck everything up. Put that fucking camera away- 
INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - AUDITORIUM 
At first, it's just a shot off Matt's feet, the camera pointing down, and we can hear hub-bub all around. It goes to nightvision for a moment, then over-exposes, then back to normal. 
MATT (O.S.) (grumbling) Fuck...the stupid... 
The camera is levelled, showing a high-school auditorium's stage. A group of kids are playing screamo music. Cut, a little later. A girl is singing. Cut. Casey, the girl with the videoblog from the barn party, is doing hip-hop booty dancing. She's good. The camera lingers on her. MATT (O.S.) (CONT'D) ...s'fuckin awesome... 
CUT. 
It's a few minutes later. "Techno-Syndrome" (MORTAL KOMBAT!) begins to play. There's a beat, and then Steve, in a tuxedo, rushes out onto stage. The applause is DEAFENING, girls screaming, etc. 
He raises his hands for silence, and then "presents" Andrew, also in a tuxedo. Mixed reaction from the crowd. Andrew's carrying a deck of cards; he fumbles them, they spill onto the floor. Audience laughter; Steve throws up his arms in exasperation. 
Andrew shrugs, and all the cards leap back up into his hands. There's a beat, and then the audience goes APESHIT. 
MATT (O.S.) (CONT'D) Yes!   Fuck yes! 
CUT. 
Andrew is juggling, six balls at once. Steve is drinking a soda, and offers Andrew the soda. Andrew is annoyed. Steve pantomimes joy at not having to give up his soda. Andrew stops juggling, leaving all the balls hanging in the air, and snatches away Steve's soda. 
Steve lunges after him and gets back his soda, only to have all the balls drop out of the air and hit him. The audience is LOSING THEIR FREAKING MINDS. 
CUT. 
People around Matt are buzzing about how awesome it is. 
Andrew is transporting buckets of water across the stage, spilling water everywhere. Steve is pantomiming anger at the shoddy job he's doing. Andrew pantomimes "Well, you try." Steve tries, but trips and falls, sending the contents of the bucket flying out over the audience- 
ANDREW (O.S.) Monica, yeah- 
MONICA Yeah!   Hiiii! 
CUT. 
More shots of the party, of Monica talking. She entreats Andrew to join her on a beer-pong team. A little tipsy, Andrew agrees, setting down the camera on a couch. It lays there. SOME GUY picks it up. 
SOME GUY And now, you get a special treat, I'm gonna film myself taking a piss. 
Matt snatches away the camera from him. 
CUT. 
Matt's walking around with the camera now he films people dancing, talking, a people taking shots. Casey passes, filming for her video blog. Matt's camera follows her, but then goes back to Steve, who's cheering on Andrew and Monica, who are of course dominating at beer-pong. But they take shots anyway. 
CUT. 
STEVE (drunk) Matt, you have the camera yeah? You have the camera, cause, don't let him forget the camera, okay? That's Andrew's camera. 
MATT (O.S.) Right on. 
CUT. 
Matt wanders the party; a stoner comes up. 
STONER Hey Matt, wanna blaze? 
MATT (O.S.) (beat) No, I'm good. I'm just filming for Andrew. 
STONER Andrew? He's upstairs in the bedroom hooking up with that, whatshername, hair girl. 
MATT (O.S.) Yeah, I'm a little drunk though. Movies! Makin movies. 
The stoner wanders off. 
MATT (O.S.) (CONT'D) I'm making an experimental film. 
EXT. HOUSE PARTY - PORCH 
Matt turns the camera around to film himself. 
MATT Hey Andrew, hope you're seeing this. Congratulations, sir. I'm drunk, sorry. I was really worried about you, like, before everything, but I do feel like... (beat) I feel like this will get better for you, man. I'm sorry I haven't been there for you as much, you know, when we were growing up, because, I know you could be an angry...be an angry dude. But I love you, you know. Detmer-Garrety extended family for liffffeeeeee. (beat) But listen when did I become the one who's...who's out alone filming myself, with the camera- 
CASEY Hey Matt. 
The camera spins to reveal her, and then immediately drops to Matt's side. 
CASEY (O.S.) (CONT'D) What were you filming? 
MATT (O.S.) Just a thing, it's nothing like- you know, Eye Of The Storm or anything- 
CASEY (O.S.) You watch my blog? 
MATT (O.S.) I- yeah, a lot of people do. I've actually been stalking you since like, sophomore year- sorry, use of the word stalking- 
CASEY Stockings are why I love Christmas. You wanna get outta here? This place is too loud for me. 
MATT Yeah, I- YES- yeah, just gotta drop off the cam- 
Matt fumbles with the camera, turning it off. 
STEVE Hung over, dude! You should be too! Let's just- 
ANDREW (O.S.) No! 
STEVE What the fuck are you doing? ANDREW (O.S.) I'm filming the storm, no one's ever filmed a storm like this up close bef- 
STEVE No, we're getting the fuck down, now. This is fucking crazy, Andrew- what- what happened to your face? 
ANDREW (O.S.) ...My dad- 
STEVE Your dad fucking beat the shit out you! Come on, we'll go to the cops, let's get out of here. He can't do that Andrew. (MORE) STEVE (CONT'D) This is not the way you handle it, we'll go together, let's go, he can't do that- 
ANDREW (O.S.) You don't give a shit, stop acting like you care! 
STEVE I don't fucking care!?    You're my best friend, idiot! 
ANDREW ...What? 
STEVE I hang out with you and Matt practically every fucking day! You think I talk to anyone else about my parents, or my feelings on shit, are you that fucking insecure? 
ANDREW (long beat) I'm an idiot. I'm sorry Steve, oh god, I'm sorry- 
STEVE Dude, it's okay.     You just need help, okay? 
ANDREW Yeah, yes, I don't know what I'm doing- 
STEVE It'll be fine. But we've- ...Do you hear that? I hear...singing. 
A BLINDING FLASH OF LIGHTNING STRIKES STEVE, BLASTING HIM OUT OF THE SKY. The boom of thunder is deafening. For a moment, all we can see is the stormscape, and then we hear Andrew's rushed, panicked breathing. 
DIGITAL DISTORTION TO BLACK. 
EXT. CEMETARY - DAY 
It's a gray, dark day. A funeral is in progress; we're filming from within the mourning party. 
A large picture of Steve is on a stand as the priest reads a eulogy. Andrew's camera movements are rigid again, tight and confined, back to how they were when we first started. 
We see Steve's mother and father. His mother is sobbing. His father simply looks shellshocked, staring at the casket. Steve's mother leans on his father, and he pushes her away. There's Samantha, crying uncontrollably. The camera passes Matt... 
Who's staring directly at us. 
CUT. 
Andrew walks along in the cemetary, filming tombstones. 
MATT (O.S.) What are you doing? Filming graves, I don't get it. 
The camera looks up at Matt.    He's keeping his distance. 
MATT (CONT'D) You're not returning my calls, why aren't you returning my calls. 
ANDREW (O.S.) I've been busy. 
MATT No you haven't. Why aren't you returning my calls. Turn off the camera. 
ANDREW (O.S.) ...No. MATT Turn off the camera. 
Silence. 
MATT (CONT'D) I had a missed call from you, that morning. And from Steve. I listened to your voicemail. No voicemail from Steve. 
They're Wayne's bloody teeth. 
ANDREW (O.S.) See, this one, I got clean, cause I did a little lasso around the root, but these two, they're broken cause I think I pulled them from the middle. Matt was always better at the little, the intricate stuff, he got good at that. See how broken it is, ugh, sloppy. 
INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - GUIDANCE COUNSELOR'S OFFICE 
Mike FERNANDEZ, 30s, serious but warm, sits across the desk from Andrew. The concern in his voice is very real. 
FERNANDEZ Could you put the camera away? 
ANDREW (O.S.) No, I'm filming this. I film everything. 
FERNANDEZ I understand that things have been very hard for you recently, Andrew, but the camera kind of- it alienates a little, you know? 
ANDREW (O.S.) What did you want to talk about? 
FERNANDEZ (beat) There's concern for your grades, Andrew. And as far as I know you've yet to apply to any colleges, so- 
ANDREW (O.S.) It's not doable. Financially, they're not- I mean, my dad didn't go to college either. 
FERNANDEZ Well, yes, but I still think it's worth thinking about. There are three different community colleges locally that offer great programs for- 
ANDREW (O.S.) I don't need college, Mr. Fernandez. 
FERNANDEZ (beat) I think that's a very close-minded attitude, Andrew. I know that you come from a difficult background, and I know how horrible the pain can be when you lose a friend. But I don't think you should let this make you lose hope. I mean, this is your future. You don't want to compromise your future. (long beat) Andrew? 
INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM 
The camera is sitting on the floor. We can hear screaming from downstairs. Andrew picks up the camera, and goes to the mirror, filming himself filming. After a beat, he steps out from behind the camera, leaving it hanging in the air. 
He stands looking at himself, and then the camera. The camera turns to face Andrew. He doesn't look good, but gives a weak smile. 
INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - MS. DETMER'S ROOM 
We're peeking in through the door. We can see Sandra Detmer writhing around in agony in the bed, moaning in pain. She lets out a long scream, and then seems to notice us watching. 
SANDRA DETMER Richard is that you? Richard, you have to let me have my medicine, I can't...Andrew? Who is that? Look, please come in here, I need help to turn over. It hurts, please, Andrew, you have to tell your father...tell your father to get my medicine... 
Sandra, her eyes closed in pain, is lifted and rolled onto her side. 
SANDRA DETMER (CONT'D) Andrew...thank you Andrew...was that you? Did you- 
The door closes. 
EXT. JUNKYARD - NIGHT 
The junkyard is filled with junked cars, metal garbage, old equipment. The camera sits awkwardly on the hood of a wrecked car as Andrew fidgets to get it mounted. The area is lit by lights from the main building, not too far away, but you can tell he's not supposed to be in here. 
CUT. 
Andrew moves out in front of the camera. He telekinetically pulls an old car forward, and lifts it easily. He moves it left, moves it right, rolls it, sets it back down. 
CUT. 
Andrew is sitting, resting, tired.   He speaks directly to the camera. 
ANDREW I've been doing a lot of reading, like you know, online, about evolution, and the way it works, and you know, natural selection. The uh... (cut) The strongest animals will always survive, and they're the ones that you know, will prosper, or grow, and survive, by feeding on the smaller animals. And as humans we- see, there's...uh- (cut) There's this thing called an Apex Predator, and basically what that is the most powerful predator in an ecosystem. And humans, you know, we're the apex predator, because there's nothing that preys on us, cause of weapons and stuff. But if something could, I bet it would. I... (cut) I mean, what I'm trying to say is, a lion doesn't feel guilty when it kills a gazelle. You don't feel guilty when you squash a fly, you know- I think that means something. I think it really means something. 
CUT. 
Andrew's back out with the car. He lifts it again, then makes a quick "squeezing" motion. As he does this, the car violently compresses down to the size of a basketball. Andrew flings the ball of metal into a scrap pile, which collapses loudly. 
CASEY A week. MATT (beat) Okay, if you don't film me for one week- 
CASEY (O.S.) Ahhhh- 
MATT One week, I'll show you my new trick. I guarantee you will shit bricks. Yeah? 
CASEY ...Ughhhh. 
INT. CASEY'S HOUSE - CASEY'S BEDROOM 
Matt's asleep in bed on a different day.   Casey's filming from next to him. 
CASEY (O.S.) (whispering) I'm filming you and you don't know. I'm terrible. I'm gonna show you this later and you're gonna be like "whaaaaaaaaaat!" 
EXT. CASEY'S HOUSE - BACKYARD 
Matt runs out ahead of the camera, and does a little shuck- and-jive boxer dance. 
CASEY (O.S.) You ready? 
MATT I'm ready! 
CASEY (O.S.) Are you sure- 
MATT Let's do it! Woo! 
Casey raises a paintball gun out ahead of the camera. She fires. Matt's arm whips out, impossible fast. He holds up the caught paintball. 
CASEY (O.S.) (awed) Holy shit, Matt. 
MATT COME ON!   BRING IT ON! 
Casey fires several more shots, Matt catches them effortlessly, then hurls them all into the air. Mid-air, they all pop, some of the paint landing on the camera and Casey. 
CASEY (O.S.) (laughing, awed) Matt, oh my god, oh my god! 
INT. CASEY'S HOUSE - CASEY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
It's dark; the camera turns on, then the light, revealing Matt, groggy, half awake. 
CASEY (O.S.) What happened? 
MATT Ughhhh camera...I had that dream again. 
CASEY (O.S.) Tell me. 
MATT It's like I'm...I'm not me, I'm something else. And I'm out in this...out in space. And stars are all around me, and I'm zooming past them; everything is really like three-D, I can see the shape of the stars. I'm looking for somewhere to sleep, or something, and I see earth, and I go down to earth. And then...I don't know, just the main part is that I'm out and there are the stars and they just look like millions of little points of light...And Steve is there. 
CASEY (O.S.) Steve is there? 
MATT Yeah but he feels like he's not part of it. Like he's there separately, inside my head. Andrew is there too. I don't know. I'm worried about Andrew. (beat, slyly) Why don't you put the camera away? 
CASEY (O.S.) Oh yeah? What's gonna happen to me if I put the camera away- 
MATT Oh I think you know. I think you know what's going down. 
CASEY (O.S.) We could leave the camera on. 
MATT You arrrrreeee...C'mere. 
Matt advances on Casey, and the camera falls off to the side of the bed. We can hear her giggling, which is abruptly muffled by kissing. 
ANDREW (O.S.) That's right. 
PHARMACIST Okay, and the copay on that is...Seven hundred and fifteen dollars, eighty three cents. 
Silence. 
ANDREW (O.S.) I have to come back. PHARMACIST Okay, we'll hold it for you. 
INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM - LATER 
Andrew is filming out his window, watching his father leave. His stereo plays David Bowie. Once his dad's car is gone, Andrew sets down the camera on the dresser opposite the mirror, and leaves the room. 
Time passes, and Andrew reappears, now dragging a crate. He opens it, and pulls out his father's fireman's uniform. We do short-space time cuts as he takes out the jacket, looks at it, and turns it inside out, so that the metallic fireproof inner lining is exposed. 
"Ziggy Stardust" comes on Andrew's stereo. 
Andrew, wearing the jacket, looks at himself in the mirror, his back to the camera. He reaches down, and picks something up, looking at it, then pulls it over his head. 
It's a gas mask. 
He stands there staring at the surreal, hard edged, faceless figure in the mirror. Looks right. Looks left. Adjusts the mask. 
Then turns and whips out his hand; the camera is abruptly yanked across the room. 
EXT. RUN-DOWN HOUSE - SUNSET 
It's a run-down house in Andrew's neighborhood. The streetlights and the setting sun give everything light in yellow orange haze. 
Howard, Costly, and some other thugs are chilling on the porch, laughing loudly, smoking a blunt. They clearly haven't noticed Andrew, who's filming from out by the street. 
He reaches down, and picks up a rock, then hurls it at the house. It flies up and breaks a window. Costly, Howard and the thugs immediately mobilize, swearing and posturing as they rapidly surround Andrew. 
He doesn't react. 
HOWARD You are about to get fucking stomped, you know that right? You hear me son? Come to my house, it's late, I don't see any fucking police officers or some shit, I don't know what you you think you're doing throwing shit at my house- 
COSTLY No, wait, what the fuck. What the fuck are you dressed up like that for. Are you high? 
HOWARD Lil' Andrew's straight up tripping right now, I don't even know, I'ma give your ass a wake up call- 
Howard starts towards Andrew, who raises a hand out in front of the camera. He makes the "gun sign." 
HOWARD (CONT'D) Oh you got a gat? I got a gat too bitch- 
Howard starts to pull a gun from the back of his pants. 
ANDREW (O.S.) (firing the finger gun) Bang. 
Howard's body abruptly FOLDS BACKWARDS with a sickly loud chorus of cracks, and then is FLUNG ASIDE. The thugs, shocked, don't have a second to react before Andrew telekinetically BLOWS ONE OF THEM BACKWARDS, sending him smashing headfirst through the windshield of his car. 
Costly and the remaining thug start running, and the remaining thugs legs suddenly flip up out from under him, breaking, bending and twisting like a rag doll, before he's propelled face first into the ground, WHAM. 
Andrew launches into the air, coming down just in front of Costly, who skids to a halt. 
COSTLY -no, no- 
Costly is shoved to the street and ground back and forth as though under the weight of a giant thumb, leaving a glistening smear of clothes, blood and skin, before he falls across the curb. 
We can hear the men screaming and groaning in agony, but other than that, the night is silent. 
Andrew raises a hand, and all of their wallets and loose money lift away from them, flying to him. There's a beat, and then Andrew launches into the air. 
MR. DETMER Shit. Jesus, look at this.   Can I have a moment with my son. 
POLICE DETECTIVE Yeah I- I'll be outside the door, yeah? 
MR. DETMER Okay. 
The officer closes the door, and Mr. Detmer goes and sits down in a chair next to the bed. He sits there staring at Andrew, clearly horrified and upset, and buries his head in his hands. We SPEED UP THE RECORDING, and Detmer just sits like that. After five minutes of speed up, we slow down. 
MR. DETMER (CONT'D) I want you to apologize to me. 
Andrew is comatose. 
MR. DETMER (CONT'D) I said I want you to apologize to me. I know you can hear me. So I want you to sit up and apologize to me. I want you to stop this bullshit right now. 
Andrew is comatose. 
MR. DETMER (CONT'D) Do you know how much this shit is going to cost me? Do you know what you've done to your family? (beat) You don't even care, do you? You just don't give a fuck, you've got your fucking morphine, don't you. 
There's a beat, and then Detmer suddenly slaps Andrew's burnt shoulder. Andrew flinches badly, and his pulse speeds up on the monitor. MR. DETMER (CONT'D) Stop it. I'm not buying this shit, you can't just play this off like a fucking (slap) Game, this is real. You really fucked me, me and your mother you know that, you little (slap) Shit. Andrew no longer flinches, but the slaps leave red, bleeding molten welts. Detmer stands up, clearly upset, and takes a quick pace forward and back. 
MR. DETMER (CONT'D) Goddamn it, goddamn it!- 
Detmer goes to slap Andrew again, and Andrew's arm jerks up. Mr. Detmer floats is telekinetically lifted into the air. 
He hangs screaming and struggling for a moment, then becomes rigid. 
Andrew spreads his fingers, and his father abruptly separates into all of his component parts. They stop moving, hanging lifeless, then drop to the ground in a bloody mess. 
Andrew's eyes open, revealing black-red eightball hemorrhages, and he seizes badly, letting out a scream of agony, and then another, tearing at his IV. 
The police detectives rush the room, reacting with horror to the gore that was Andrew's father. They barely have time to scream out when Andrew snaps his cuff free of the bed, and lets out AN ENORMOUS CONCUSSIVE BLAST, blowing apart everything in the room including the camera. SMASH CUT TO: 
FROM CASEY'S CAMERA. 
INT. CASEY'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM 
All of Casey's family is present, along with lots of little kids. Everyone's gathered around Casey's little brother, who's being presented with a birthday cake. Matt looks happy. 
EVERYONE -appy birthday to you! 
Everyone let's out a cheer, including Casey, but then she notices Matt abruptly duck out. She follows him to the bathroom... 
CUT. 
...where he's holding his nose, which is bleeding badly. 
CASEY Matt- 
MATT Do you hear that, how can you not hear that? 
In the background, we can hear the house phone ring.    Then cell phones. 
CASEY Matt, what hap- 
MATT The singing, how can you not hear that!? Something's wrong, okay, something's wrong with Andrew, or- 
CASEY Matt, please, okay, you're scaring me, are you okay- 
MATT No, something's wrong, something's wrong. 
Matt pushes past her, running upstairs. Casey starts to follow, but then stops, lowering the camera. 
They're getting into downtown now. We can hear sirens. Casey is filming out the window, everything looks normal, until there's a loud crash; then Casey swishes the camera to reveal that a police car, its siren still moaning, has landed on top of a newstand, apparently dropped from the sky. 
CASEY (CONT'D) How- how is that possible, that's not possible- 
There's an explosion from nearby and shattered glass rains down onto the car. Matt slams on the brakes, looking up through the windshield, searching the sky. 
MATT Where are you, man? 
There's a beat, and then a police officer abruptly appears on the passenger's side, next to Casey. 
POLICE OFFICER Listen, you can't be here, I need you to turn this car around right now and- 
The police officer is yanked upwards, disappearing from sight for a moment before coming crashing down thirty feet away. Casey screams. 
CASEY What's...What is...What's...Matt please, please- 
The car SUDDENLY ROCKETS INTO THE AIR, straight up, flipping end over end, past the tops of the buildings, and then comes to a stop, hanging at about two hundred feet. Casey's breathing is painfully short and sharp. Matt stares out into the night sky. 
He flicks on the brights. There's Andrew, in his hospital gown, floating a dozen feet out, his flesh charred and twisted, his body clearly wracked with agonizing pain. A news helicopter circles past out of sight, and for a moment, Andrew is framed in the chopper's spotlight. 
His eyes flash to the car. 
ANDREW (screaming) WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE!? The windshield is TORN OUT, and seconds later MATT IS RIPPED OUT OF THE CAR AS THOUGH YANKED BY A GIANT HOOK, taking his seatbelt with him. CASEY No NO NO 
The car goes into freefall, no longer important to Andrew, plummeting down, down, down. Casey's screams are barely audible over the rushing of the wind as the buildings rush past outside, her camera frozen in place as she plummets to her death. 
And then suddenly, so suddenly it's completely disorienting, the side of the car bursts apart and we're flying, blurred views of buildings, the sky, the side of some jeans... 
Stillness. Casey's camera is pointed down, showing her adidas...and Matt's high-tops. 
MATT (O.S.) Stay here, okay? You have to stay here. 
CASEY (O.S.) (barely coherent) You can fly? 
MATT (O.S.) Stay here.     I have to talk to Andrew. 
CASEY (O.S.) Matt..what... 
MATT (O.S.) Casey, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. 
Matt's feet suddenly go out of frame. 
CASEY (O.S.) Matt wait!     WAIT PLEASE!   MATT! NOTE: In the following sequence, everything is seen in glimpses and glances, never lingering too long on one thing. Much of what happens should be seen through implication, rather than direct effect. 
Everything happens very fast, and none of the cameras can fully keep track. 
FROM SEVERAL HELICAMS. 
The feed is crisp and clear, but without the satellite audio, meaning no narration from the reporter. There are several chopper's flying at different distances from the action, and we intercut as necessary. 
EXT. DOWNTOWN PORTLAND 
The news chopper at first shows Casey's destroyed car laying in the street, then pans back up to show Andrew, who's floating hunched over, vomiting. 
Matt flies up behind him, and tries to help him, but Andrew shoves him away. We're too far away to hear anything that's said. 
Matt tries again, and Andrew yells something. Matt, clearly upset, replies. Andrew, talking fast and jerky, gestures towards his burns. Matt tries to reply several times, but Andrew isn't hearing it. Matt smiles nervously at the destruction, and says something gently. 
Andrew replies, and whatever is said here, it causes a radical shift in Matt's demeanor. He's no longer concerned; he seems repulsed. Andrew says more, clearly SCREAMING at Matt. 
Matt seems to beg Andrew for something and Andrew relents. Matt continues, more forcefully, and then notices something to his right. A BUS SMASHES HIM OUT OF THE AIR, SWATTING HIM LIKE A BUG INTO THE SIDE OF AN APARTMENT COMPLEX. Andrew suddenly turns, flailing an arm at us in the chopper; a mailbox comes CRASHING UP INTO THE CAMERA. 
He approaches Andrew, talking again, more fervently. Andrew just shakes his head, falling repeatedly as he tries to stand, like a wounded dog. 
Two cop cars skid to a halt nearby, the officers unloading and taking cover. One of them advances on Matt and Andrew, gun raised. Matt goes out in front of Andrew, protective, pleading, raising his hands. 
The cop is clearly panicked. He fires a shot.    Matt's arm whips out, impossible fast; he buckles and screams in pain, holding his hand, which is gushing blood. 
Andrew blasts the Matt falls, screaming, and Andrew stands. officers backwards. CAMERA-MAN (CONT'D) OH SHIT!   Oh jesus christ! 
Andrew approaches Matt, screaming and looking absolutely terrifying. Matt turns and ROCKETS OFF INTO THE SKY, Andrew following a second later, tackling Matt out of the air. 
FROM KPR-PORTLAND'S LIVE-ON-THE-SCENE. 
We're at street level in downtown, people are absolutely everywhere, wandering out into the street, baffled, scared and looking for answers. A FIELD REPORTER fixes herself, preparing to speak. 
FIELD REPORTER Are we...Okay, yeah, gimme- two, one- We're live on the scene on Parson Boulevard just south of the center of downtown, and- There's a rushing, screeching sound from around the corner. The camera jerks, and moves towards the corner, the cameraman man running to see what the sound is. 
FIELD REPORTER (CONT'D) Shawn, wait, you're unplugged. Shawn- 
Something around the corner explodes, and Matt comes flying past overhead, slightly on fire, before Andrew comes lunging at Matt, catching him, twisting out and over the camera man, SLAMMING HIM INTO THE SIDE OF A SKYSCRAPER ON THE STREET. Andrew lifts Matt up high into the air, scraping him against buildings on either side of the street, bouncing like a pinball until- 
FROM ABC 5'S HELICAM. 
-Matt struggles, and there's a visible ripple in the air; a massive concussive burst, sending both of them rocketing downwards as though shot out of a cannon. They strike the massive bronze statue of "Portlandia," a trident wielding demigoddess, in front of the Michael Graves building, uprooting it from its pedestal before crashing to the ground. 
Matt's body accordions brutally when he lands, and he flops down at a broken, dead angle. Andrew lands nearly as badly, lays still for a moment, and then begins twitching and screaming when the chopper's spotlight hits him. 
FROM MICHAEL GRAVES' BUILDING EXTERIOR SECURITY CAMERA 
The statue of Portlandia lays awkwardly in the street. Andrew writhes. Matt is motionless, blood pooling around him, his back broken. 
FROM POLICE DASHBOARD CAMS, HELICOPTER CAMERAS, HANDHELDS FROM WINDOWS, EVERYTHING. 
A bunch of squad cars and emergency units converge around the front of the Michael Graves building and downed statue. Matt and Andrew's bodies are painted by spotlights as police and news helicopters hang overhead. 
Police unload en-mass, guns out, immediately forming a perimeter and pushing in. We're with them as they approach; the mood is of barely controlled panic, officers shouting back and forth to each other. Andrew and Matt are polka-dotted by red-laser sight dots. 
Andrew suddenly stands up, and several officers fire; the bullets spark off an invisible barrier in front of him, and he shakily raises both hands. 
The all of the police officers, firemen and paramedics are telekinetically lifted into the air. 
They hang struggling for a moment, and then all of their limbs go rigid. We've seen this before. 
Andrew screams, and then...It all happens in under two seconds: 
Matt swings an arm, blinding fast; the triton wielding arm of Portlandia bends jaggedly, bringing down the pitchfork hard, first through Andrew, then into the pavement. 
Andrew stands impaled, a look of shock on his face, and then Matt flails up his hand; the bullet lodged inside fires out, striking Andrew in the head, killing him instantly. 
All of the floating people drop, dazed. 
Matt collapses.   After a moment, the police advance. 
CUT TO BLACK. 
FROM CLEAN ROOM CAMS. 
The clean room cams are incredibly hi-def, crisp and clear, with all manner of data and time codes scrolling all over the top and bottom of the screens. 
Matt lays on the floor of a perfectly white room. At the far end is a blackened out two way mirror. There's a camera on the inside of this too, and we can see resolute men in suits reflected on the inner glass, watching with unreadable expressions. 
There is a chair and a table, but he's clearly fallen out of the chair. It's maybe an hour after the scene in front of the Michael Graves building, and he's received no medical attention. 
