THE CIDER HOUSE RULES 
Written by 
John Irving 
Production Draft 
FADE IN. BEGIN TITLE SEQUENCE. 
EXT. ST CLOUD'S - TRAIN STATION - DAWN 
An establishing shot of the rundown train station on an overcast morning. There's snow on the station platform. A train arrives and departs. 
LARCH (V.O.) In other parts of the world, young men of promise leave home to make their fortunes, battle evil, or solve the problems of the world. 
Behind the station, at the top of the hill, lies the St. Cloud's orphanage. 
LARCH (V.O.) I was myself such a young man, when I came to save the orphanage in St. Cloud's... many years ago. 
EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - ORPHANAGE - EARLY MORNING 
A man and woman (COUPLE #1) make their way toward the main entrance of the large brick building. 
LARCH (V.O.) Here in St. Cloud's, I have come to understand that promises are rarely kept, that the battle isn't so much against evil as ignorance, and that being successful can't hold a candle to being of *use*. 
The couple enters the orphanage, where we hear the sound of babies. 
LARCH (V.O.) Nor have I solved the problem I came here to solve. 
INT. ORPHANAGE - MORNING 
Two nurses, EDNA and ANGELA, chase CHILDREN--a morning routine. 
LARCH (V.O.) Even in the most enlightened times, unwanted babies will manage to be born. That there will always be orphans is simple not a problem to be solved. Here is St. Cloud's, we don't regard the sordid facts of life as problems. 
The camera goes up the stairs with some of the kids. 
INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - DAY 
We enter an office where DR. LARCH shows couple #1 their newly adopted son, HOMER, an infant who lies smiling in Dr. Larch's arms. 
LARCH (V.O.) In truth, we've only had one real problem. 
We close in on the infant until his face fills the screen. 
LARCH (V.O.) His name was Homer Wells. 
Dr. Larch hands over the infant to the adopting parents. 
LARCH I named him after the Greek writer. You know Homer, of course? 
Hesitant nods. (They don't look as if they read.) 
LARCH I made his name "Wells" because I could tell he was very deep. 
The parents look with pride at their adopted son. 
LARCH (V.O.) In truth, Nurse Angela named him-- her father *drilled* wells, and "Homer" was one of her family's umpteen cats. 
INT./EXT. ORPHANAGE - DAY 
At the front door, Larch and the nurses wave and call good- bye to Homer, they close the door. 
INT./EXT. ORPHANAGE - NIGHT 
The same door swings open; it's another night. The same couple is bringing Homer back. There is concern in their faces as Nurse Edna lets them in. 
INT. BOY'S DIVISION, DOORWAY - NIGHT 
Larch is delivering his benediction to the boys. 
LARCH "Good night, you Princes of Maine, you Kings of New England!" 
As he turns, he is startled by Nurse Edna, waiting with couple #1 and baby Homer. 
ADOPTING MOTHER There's something wrong with him! He never makes a sound. 
Larch looks quickly at Homer. 
LARCH (V.O.) He didn't cry enough for them, if you can believe it. 
ADOPTING FATHER Do you think we could have a look at someone a little different? 
The mother hands over the baby to Larch. Baby Homer lets out a happy squeal as soon as he's in Larch's arms. The parents stare in disbelief. 
LARCH (V.O.) Thus was Homer Wells returned. He was too happy a baby. 
EXT. ORPHANAGE - DAY 
Angela and Edna call and wave good-bye to a two-year-old Homer, leaving with COUPLE #2. Larch stands on the porch and watches the family head down the hill. 
Homer enters, he stands uncomfortably, watching Larch for a moment. Then he turns around and walks back into the corridor. 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
Homer calls out as though he's just coming down the corridor. 
HOMER Dr. Larch! Dr. Larch! 
INT. DISPENSARY - DAY 
Larch wakes up; he shakes off the ether haze. Homer reenters. 
HOMER We've got two new patients, one to deliver. 
Dr. Larch and Homer leave together. 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
The *two* doctors walk briskly down the hall, a couple of professionals. 
LARCH First pregnancy? 
HOMER Yes, for both. 
LARCH (sarcastically) I presume you'd prefer handling the delivery. 
HOMER (tiredly; an old topic) All I said was, I don't want to perform abortions. I have no argument with *you* performing them. 
LARCH You know *how* to help these women-- how can you not feel *obligated* to help them when they can't get help anywhere else? 
HOMER One: it's illegal. Two: I didn't ask how to do it--you just showed me. 
LARCH What *else* could I have showed you, Homer? The only thing I can teach you is what I know! In every life, you've got to be of use. 
Homer and Larch split off and disappear into two different operating rooms. As he goes, Homer mumbles to himself, "Of use, of use, of use." 
INT. OPERATING ROOM - DAY 
Larch and Angela are preparing the ether for DOROTHY, a not visibly pregnant woman. The sounds of labor across the hall can be heard Over. 
LARCH (holds the cone) Have you ever had ether, Dorothy? 
DOROTHY Once, when they took out my appendix. 
ANGELA (looks for scar) No one's touched your appendix. 
DOROTHY Whatever it was... the ether made me sick. 
LARCH It won't make you sick this time, Dorothy--not the way I do it, just a drop at a time. 
DOROTHY I can't pay for this, you know--I got no money. 
LARCH One day, Dorothy, if you have any money, a donation to the orphanage would be very much appreciated. 
ANGELA Only if you can afford it. 
LARCH (holds the ether bottle) Try to think of nothing, Dorothy. 
Angela puts the cone over Dorothy's mouth and nose; Larch drips the ether on the cone. A newborn wails in the other O.R. Over. 
INT. DELIVERY ROOM - DAY 
Homer has delivered CARLA. A newborn baby is screaming in Edna's arms. Homer is attending to Carla, who is panting. 
HOMER That was good, Carla--that was *perfect*. Everything's fine. 
CARLA I don't wanna see it! 
EDNA You don't have to see it, dear. Don't worry. 
CARLA I don't even wanna know what sex it is--don't tell me! 
HOMER We won't tell you, Carla. You're going to be okay. 
EDNA Your *baby's* going to be okay, too. 
CARLA I don't wanna know! 
Larch pops into the delivery room; he peers at the baby. 
LARCH He's a big boy! 
CARLA Let me see him, for Christ's sake--I wanna see him. 
Edna shows the baby to Carla, who stares, then turns away. Larch whispers to Homer. 
LARCH Would you mind having a look at Dorothy? 
INT. OPERATING ROOM - DAY 
Angela sits with the still-etherized Dorothy while Larch and Homer confer over a basin containing Dorothy's uterus. 
Larch plucks Fuzzy from in front of the phonograph and zips him into the breathing tent. Fuzzy smiles. As larch leaves, MARY AGNES, a pretty but tough-looking teenager, comes into the dispensary. 
HOMER What is it, Mary Agnes? 
Mary Agnes smiles at Homer; then she sticks her tongue out at him. Homer looks at her impassively, but as the moment continues his expression suggests his annoyance. Fuzzy starts to cough; he wheezes as he breathes. Homer leans down; he peers at Fuzzy through a hole by the zipper of the tent. 
MARY AGNES (garbled because of her tongue) Look! 
Homer examines Mary Agnes' tongue. 
HOMER Did you bite it? 
MARY AGNES I don't remember. 
HOMER (dismissively) It looks like you bit it--it'll be all right. 
MARY AGNES Maybe I was kissing someone and he bit me. 
HOMER (looks at her tongue again) No, you did it yourself. Maybe in your sleep. 
MARY AGNES I must have been *dreaming* of kissing someone. 
Homer is not responding to her come-on. He wheels Fuzzy into the hall. 
HOMER Story time, Fuzzy! 
INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - NIGHT 
In the girls' bunk room, Nurse Edna is saying prayers. The girls lie with their palms pressed together on their chests. 
EDNA "Oh Lord, support us all the day long..." 
EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - THE HILL - NIGHT 
The building of St. Cloud's is silhouetted against the sky. Carla, the woman we saw deliver the baby, is heading down the hill alone, she sobs, not looking back. 
EDNA (O.S.) "...until the shadows lengthen and the evening comes, and the busy world is hushed, and the fever of life is over, and our work is done." 
INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - NIGHT 
In the bunk room again, with Edna and the girls. 
EDNA "Then in Thy mercy grant us save lodging, and holy rest, and peace at the last." 
ALL THE GIRLS Amen! Amen! Amen! 
INT. BOYS' DIVISION - NIGHT 
Dr. Larch is reading from Oliver Twist--the death scene of Bill Sike's dog. The boys listen in horror in their beds. 
LARCH "A dog, which had lain concealed till now, ran backwards and forwards on the parapet with a dismal howl, and collecting himself for a spring, jumped for the dead man's shoulders." 
Homer enters; he walks quietly to his bed in the far corner of the room, where he starts to undress. 
LARCH "Missing his aim, he fell into a ditch, turning completely over as he went; and striking his head against a stone, dashed his brains out. 
Larch turns out the lights. From the open doorway to the hall, Larch delivers his nightly benediction. 
LARCH Good night, you Princes of Maine! You Kings of New England! 
Larch closes the door, leaving them in the semi-darkness. One young boy runs into Homer's bed, nervously giggling. 
FUZZY (in his breathing tent) Why does Dr. Larch *do* tht every night? 
CURLY (about seven) Maybe to scare us... 
COPPERFIELD (about eleven) No, you jerk. 
STEERFORTH (about nine) Dr. Larch *loves* us! 
FUZZY But why does he do *that*? 
BUSTER He does it because we like it. 
The boys silently agree, Homer among them. 
EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - EARLY MORNING 
The girls, led by Mary Agnes, round a corner of the orphanage, towing a sled piled high with snowballs. 
MARY AGNES Buster is mine. You two get Copperfield and Curly. Nobody touches Fuzzy. 
They shriek as the boys suddenly surprise them. Buster throws two hard snowballs that hit Mary Agnes and CLARA (eight or nine) before Mary Agnes overwhelms him and repeatedly sticks his head in the snow. Copperfield, terrified of Mary Agnes, escapes. Curly misses, then tips over the sled of snowballs as Clara and the adorable HAZEL (five or six) throw him to the ground. Fuzzy drops his one snowball; he runs aimlessly in circles, coughing, as Nurse Edna explodes from a door of the orphanage. 
EDNA Stop it! No fighting! *Share* the snowballs! 
BUSTER (mouth full of snow) They're *our* snowballs! They *stole* them! 
MARY AGNES They attacked us--just like the Japs! 
Fuzzy coughs and wheezes, trying to catch his breath. 
Homer sees Curly standing all alone by a window in the corridor; a suitcase is next to him. 
HOMER Hi, Curly. You going somewhere? 
Curly shakes his head. 
CURLY I thought they might take me. 
HOMER They wanted a girl. 
CURLY Nobody ever wants me! 
Homer embraces Curly and lifts him up, he grabs the suitcase and continues down the corridor. 
HOMER You're one of the best, Curly--we couldn't let just anyone take you. 
CURLY Dr. Larch wouldn't let just anyone take *any* of us! 
HOMER That's true. 
CURLY Nobody's asked for me, have they? 
HOMER Nobody special enough, Curly. 
CURLY You mean somebody asked? 
HOMER Only the right people can have you, Curly. 
Homer disappears into the boys' bunk room carrying Curly and his suitcase, leaving the corridor empty. 
INT./EXT. ORPHANAGE - DAY 
Faces in the windows; the orphans watch Hazel walking across the snowy lawn with her new parents. 
INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - NIGHT 
Edna (with the girls) gives her good-bye blessing to Hazel. 
EDNA Let us be happy for Hazel. Hazel has found a family. Good night, Hazel. 
THE GIRLS Good night, Hazel! Good night, Hazel! Good night, Hazel! 
INT./EXT. ORPHANAGE - FRONT DOOR - DAY 
The front door opens. The orphans excitedly run outside onto the green lawn, into the warm weather of spring. 
INT. DISPENSARY - MORNING 
Angela is singing along with the song on the phonograph, a more romantic song then before, which rouses Larch from his ether. He is grumpy, but she sings the song in his ear and won't give him back the ether cone; he rolls away from her, but she tickles him and bites his ear, coaxing him into a more playful mood. 
LARCH I was dreaming about you. How beautiful you were! 
ANGELA You weren't dreaming about me. 
LARCH I was! 
Playfully, she slips out of his embrace. 
ANGELA Then I wasn't beautiful. 
LARCH You were! You *are*! It was fantastic. 
ANGELA It was just the ether, Wilbur... 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 
Homer wheels a tray with glasses of water between the beds. A DISTRAUGHT PREGNANT WOMAN stops him by her bed. 
HOMER Are you okay? Can I get you anything? 
DISTRAUGHT WOMAN No one but me ever put a hand on me, to feel that baby. Don't you want to touch it or put your ear down to it? 
HOMER Okay. 
Homer touches the woman's belly. 
DISTRAUGHT WOMAN Put your ear there. Go on. 
Homer cautiously lays his ear against her belly. 
DISTRAUGHT WOMAN You shouldn't have a baby if there's no one who wants to put his face right there! 
She holds Homer's head against her belly; she presses his face into her. She shuts her eyes. Homer's eyes stare widely. Dr. Larch stops in the doorway; he watches with concern. 
DISTRAUGHT WOMAN Stay right there. Right where you are. Stay right here. Right here. 
EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - TRAIN STATION - DAY 
Homer at the train station, staring down the empty tracks. Buster is hanging around with him, kicking a rock. 
BUSTER Do you ever think about leaving this place to go find them? 
Homer shifts his weight to the other foot; aggravated; he stands there. 
HOMER She's a patient, right? She should see a doctor. 
Homer and Larch stare at each other. 
LARCH (trying to stay calm) Homer, you are a skilled and gifted surgeon. You have near-prefect obstetrical and gynecological procedure. 
Homer is also trying to avoid a fight. 
HOMER I just mean I'd rather fix the movie. Tonight. 
Larch can't hide his disappointment. 
LARCH Sure. Okay. You splice. I'll deliver. 
It is an uneasy peace. 
INT. BOYS' DIVISION - NIGHT (LATER) 
Homer is adjusting Fuzzy's breathing tent as the other boys climb into bed. 
FUZZY Homer... doesn't King Kong think the woman is his *mother*? 
HOMER Uh, sure--that's what Kong thinks, all right. 
FUZZY That's why Kong loves her! 
Larch comes in and walks over to Homer and Fuzzy. Larch and Homer exchange a look. 
HOMER I thought it was my turn. 
LARCH It is. I'll get this. You go ahead. 
Homer sits down with 'David Copperfield.' There is quiet anticipation while Homer readies himself to read. 
HOMER (reading) "Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether that station will be held by anybody else, these pages must show." 
Larch continues to adjust Fuzzy's breathing tent. 
HOMER "I was a posthumous child. My father's eyes had closed upon the light of this world six months, when mine opened on it." 
FUZZY (whispers to Larch) His father's dead, right? 
LARCH (whispering back) That's right, Fuzz. 
Close on Fuzzy. 
HOMER (O.S.) (continues reading) "There is something strange to me, even now, in the reflection that he never saw me..." 
As Larch bends over Fuzzy to fix the breathing apparatus, Fuzzy whispers. 
FUZZY Is *your* father dead? 
LARCH (nods, whispers) Cirrhosis--it's a disease of the liver. 
FUZZY *Liver* killed him? 
LARCH *Alcohol* killed him--he drank himself to death. 
FUZZY But did you know him? 
LARCH Barely. It hardly mattered that I knew him. 
FUZZY Did you know your mother better? 
LARCH (nods, still whispers) She's dead now, too. She was a nanny. 
FUZZY What's a nanny do? 
LARCH She looks after other people's children. 
FUZZY Did you grow up around here? 
LARCH No. She was an immigrant. 
FUZZY What's an immigrant? 
LARCH Someone not from Maine. 
EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - NIGHT 
The orphanage in moonlight. Not a sound. 
EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - MORNING 
The children are chasing a ball near the incinerator. 
A VERY FRIGHTENED GIRL---not one of the orphans--is lying next to the incinerator. 
Edna kneels by the strange girl, who cringes with fear. 
Buster is driving the old pickup truck, with the shovels and a wheelbarrow in the back. Larch and Homer are in the cab, they are being bounced all over the cab by Buster's wild driving. Larch looks at Homer; he stares at him with a curious smile. 
HOMER What?! 
Larch says nothing. Homer gives him a look. 
LARCH (smiling) It's just a marvel to me that you still have such high expectations of people. 
HOMER I'm happy I amuse you. 
LARCH (to Homer) Try to look at it this way. What choice does Buster have? What are his options? Nobody will ever adopt him. (Buster considers this) 
HOMER Try to look at it *this* way. Buster and I are sitting right here beside you. We could have ended up in the incinerator! (Buster grins) 
LARCH Happy to be alive, under any circumstances--is that your point? 
Buster is distracted; he drives the truck into a ditch and it bounces around, missing a tree by an inch. He is up on the road again in a few seconds. 
HOMER Happy to be alive... I guess so. 
They are all distracted by a luxurious convertible that overtakes them on the hill to the orphanage. The fast car is driven by a handsome man in the uniform of the Army Air Corps-- a YOUNG OFFICER. From the passenger seat, a BEAUTIFUL YOUNG WOMAN smiles at them, rendering them speechless. 
EXT. ORPHANAGE DRIVEWAY - DAY 
The luxurious convertible (now parked) has drawn all the orphans to it. The handsome young officer (WALLY) and the beautiful young woman (CANDY) stand confused by the car; they are surrounded by the curious orphans, with whom they are painfully self-conscious. They are overly friendly to the children as they are anxious of Larch and Homer and Buster (in their gravedigging attire), who are getting out of the truck. Nervously, Wally gives the children chocolates. 
CANDY So many children. Are they all orphans? 
WALLY Well, this *is* an orphanage. 
The kids climb into Wally's car. 
CANDY Oh, they're getting into the car... watch your fingers! 
Curly tugs on Candy's dress, staring up at her, his face already smeared with chocolate. 
CURLY I'm the best. 
CANDY (sweetly) You are? 
WALLY (good with kids) The best? Wow! The best at *what*? 
CURLY I'm the best one. 
Curly's nose is streaming snot. Candy kneels beside him and holds her handkerchief to his nose. 
CANDY Here, blow... 
Curly tries to talk while she's holding his nose. 
CURLY I really *am* the best, I just have a cold. 
CANDY Blow! There, I bet that feels better. 
CURLY (sniffs) Yeah. 
The other orphans are dying with envy--Candy is so beautiful. (Some, like Buster, are torn between Candy and the car.) 
LARCH Curly, come here! 
CURLY (to Larch) *Tell* them! I'm the one. 
Virtually all the orphans have climbed into Wally's car. 
HOMER (to Wally) I'm sorry. They're not used to seeing a car like this. 
WALLY It's okay--I don't mind. 
Larch, scowling, presents himself to the new couple. 
WALLY We brought some chocolates for the kids. 
LARCH (witheringly) Chocolates. How *thoughtful*. 
Larch picks up Curly and carries him toward the boys' division. 
CURLY I'm the best! *Tell* them! 
LARCH You're the best, Curly. 
INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - DAY 
Homer is seated in the desk chair. The impressive couple sit in front of him. 
HOMER So, Mrs... 
CANDY Candy. Candy Kendall. 
Wally jumps up to his feet to shake Homer's hand. 
WALLY Wally. Wally Worthington. 
INT. BOYS' DIVISION - DAY 
Cranked at three-quarters, Fuzzy sits in bed, wheezing and coughing. He's drawing with great intensity, using crayons on a piece of paper held by a clipboard. Homer sits on the end of Fuzzy's bed, cleaning up Steerforth. Homer pauses to look out of the window; he sees Wally, dashing and spotless in his uniform beside his flashy car. A life Homer might have had crosses his face. 
FUZZY (O.S.) Homer, when is Halloween? 
Homer turns to Fuzzy, who holds up his picture--a big pumpkin with a jack-o-lantern face. 
HOMER (distracted) Uh... it's the end of October. 
FUZZY Is that soon? 
Homer looks at Fuzzy; his little body is working hard just to breathe. 
STEERFORTH That's a few months away, Fuzz. (to Homer) I still don't feel so good. 
FUZZY (disappointed) Oh. It's the best time! How come we only get pumpkins once a year? 
Fuzzy coughs and coughs. 
HOMER Don't get too excited, Fuzzy. 
FUZZY Why can't we have pumpkins for Christmas, too? We don't get any good presents at Christmas, anyway. 
Homer looks out the window at Wally again. His decision forms. 
EXT. ORPHANAGE DRIVEWAY - DAY 
Homer approaches the flashy car, where Wally is still pacing. 
HOMER Has anyone offered you anything to eat? 
WALLY Actually, someone did. I just didn't think I could eat anything. 
An awkward silence, which Homer covers by examining the car. 
HOMER (trying to sound casual) I wonder if you might give me a ride. 
WALLY Sure! Be glad to! Uh... a ride where? 
HOMER (unprepared) Where are you going? 
WALLY We're heading back to Cape Kenneth. 
Homer nods, but he has no idea where Cape Kenneth is. 
HOMER Cape Kenneth... 
Wally nods. 
HOMER That sounds fine. 
INT. STAIRWAY/CORRIDOR - DAY 
Homer runs up the stairs, two steps at a time; he races into a corridor at full speed, exhilarated. Suddenly Dr. Larch appears in front of him. Homer stops abruptly, out of breath, unable to speak. 
INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - DAY 
As Homer stands guiltily, Larch rifles through an X-ray file, holding various X rays up to the lit screen. He quickly finds the one he's looking for, attaching it briefly to the screen for a confirming look--a heart X ray, which Larch waves at Homer as he talks. 
LARCH (sarcastic) Doubtless you'll let me know what immensely worthwhile or at least *useful* thing it is that you find to do. 
HOMER (restrained) I wasn't intending to leave here in order to be entirely useless--I expect I'll find some ways to be of use. 
LARCH In other parts of the world, I suppose there are other ways. 
HOMER (still restrained) Of course. 
LARCH (blows up) Are you really so *stupid* that you imagine you're going to find a more gratifying life? What you're going to find is people like the poor people who get left here--only nobody takes care of them as well! And you won't be able to take care of them, either. There's no taking care of *anybody*-- not out there! 
HOMER (feeling trapped) You know I'm grateful for everything you've done for me... 
LARCH (calmly) I don't need your gratitude. 
Larch hands Homer the heart X ray. 
HOMER (exasperated) I don't need this--I know all about my condition. 
LARCH It's your heart--you ought to take it with you. 
Camera closes on Homer with the X ray. 
INT. KITCHEN - LATE AFTERNOON 
Buster and Mary Agnes are serving the evening meal while Larch rails at Angela and Edna, who are helping Buster and Mary Agnes. The sound of children in the dining hall is intermittent and chaotic. 
EDNA Going where? Does he have a plan of some kind? 
ANGELA Will he be back soon? 
LARCH I don't know! He's just leaving-- (to Angela) you're the one who says he needs to see the world! (to Edna) *That's* what he'll do--he'll see the world! 
Wally is taking his uniform off as he speaks, just dropping it on the floor as he quickly puts on some farm clothes. 
OLIVE How do you do, Homer Wells... 
Homer has never met anyone like her. 
HOMER How do you do... 
Mrs. Worthington starts picking up her son's uniform from the floor. She is politely curious about Homer. 
OLIVE Were you a friend of the bride or the groom? 
Homer looks confused; he seems to have forgotten about the alleged wedding. Wally puts his arm around Homer, urging him into the hall. 
WALLY Homer is everybody's friend, Mom... the bride's, the groom's, mine, Candy's, *everybody's*. 
Homer is embarrassed, but Olive is obdurately well-mannered. 
OLIVE Well, perhaps you'll come to dinner, Homer... 
Wally calls to her as he pushes Homer down the hall. 
WALLY Not tonight, Mom--he's got to meet *Mr. Rose*! 
EXT. CIDER HOUSE - DUSK 
Homer and Wally get out of the jeep at the cider house, a barnlike building with adjacent sheds and, behind it, line after line of trees--the apple orchards. 
Homer sees an outdoor shower where THREE BLACK MEN are showering. It is a wooden stall that leaves the shower's occupants visible above and below their midsections. A FOURTH BLACK MAN is caught naked, running behind the cider house and out of sight as he wraps a towel around himself. 
JACK You already used up the hot water! 
MUDDY You're usin' my soap, ain't you? 
JACK I ain't usin' no soap--it's too cold to bother with soap! 
MUDDY There ain't never enough hot water, soap or no soap. 
WALLY They're migrants. 
HOMER (no clue) Migrants? 
WALLY Yes. They pick fruit, all kinds. They travel up and down the coast with the seasons. (leaning close to Homer) The trick to Mr. Rose is, you have to let him be the boss. 
Homer wonders what that means as Wally reaches for the door of the cider house. Before Wally can knock, a pretty young black girl, ROSE ROSE, bumps open the screen door with her hip and throws a bucket of water in the grass--almost hitting Homer and Wally. 
ROSE ROSE That sink's backed up again, Wally. I thought you was gonna get me a plumber. 
WALLY Rose, this is Homer--Homer, this is Mr. Rose's daughter, Rose. 
HOMER Rose Rose? 
ROSE ROSE Pretty, ain't it? You a plumber? 
WALLY No, no--Homer is a new *picker*. He's going to stay here with you. 
This gets the attention of the men on their way from the showers. They walk over, towels around their waists. 
ROSE ROSE (suspiciously) He's stayin' *here*? 
The screen door swings open and shut again, startling them all, as MR. ROSE comes out of the cider house. 
MR. ROSE That daughter of mine sure is Miss Hospitality, ain't she, Wally? 
Grinning, Mr. Rose shakes Wally's hand. Rose Rose goes back inside the cider house as Mr. Rose shakes Homer's hand. Homer introduces himself. 
MR. ROSE You got lots of experience pickin', I suppose. 
WALLY Homer's got no experience, Arthur, but he's smarter then I am. He's a fast learner. 
Mr. Rose looks briefly at the men, who wait for his reaction. 
MR. ROSE This is history. Ain't that what you're sayin', Wally? I guess we makin' *history*... havin' this young man stay with us! 
Wally slaps Homer on the back; he goes inside the cider house to help Rose Rose with the plumbing. 
WALLY (over his shoulder) See you later. 
Homer looks at Mr. Rose for instructions. Mr. Rose stares back at him with his enigmatic smile. 
HOMER So. What should I do now? 
MR. ROSE Out back, there's a shed. It's just a mess. If that shed was better organized, I could put my truck in there. 
Homer looks at Mr. Rose with an uncomprehending expression. 
MR. ROSE If you're as smart as Wally says, you know you sometimes gotta do one job before you do another. 
Homer thinks that over. 
Later, Homer is cleaning out the shed. 
All the smokers laugh and cough in their beds. 
MR. ROSE (uncharacteristically blunt) Stop it, Homer. They aren't our rules. We didn't write them. I don't see no reason to read them. 
HOMER Okay... 
Rose Rose stomps back to her bed. Her father absently snaps his towel. 
INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT (LATER) 
Everybody is asleep, except Homer. He is staring at the ceiling in the quiet semi-darkness, the book lying on his chest. 
LARCH (O.S.) (distant echoing) Good night, you Princes of Maine! You Kings of New England. 
INT. BOYS' DIVISION - NIGHT 
Dr. Larch is standing in the doorway to the boys' room; he closes the door. 
INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT 
Homer, on his bed, closes his eyes. 
INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT 
Larch lies in bed with his eyes open. (No ether.) 
EXT. CIDER HOUSE - NIGHT 
The cider house and the apple orchard in the moonlight. 
EXT. ORCHARDS - MORNING 
Wally in his farm clothes at the wheel of the Jeep--he is racing through the orchards, dodging trees, with Homer in the passenger seat, hanging on for dear life. 
WALLY Remember this! In the morning, when the tall grass is wet, you can make the Jeep slide on the grass. Can you feel it? 
Homer is excited as Wally weaves among the trees--faster and faster. 
WALLY It's almost like flying. 
HOMER What about the trees? 
WALLY The trees are flak--antiaircraft fire from those geeks on the ground. 
Wally brakes hard. The Jeep comes to a stop in the packing- house area. 
Candy has been waiting on the loading platform. The pickers are working in the background. 
WALLY (defensively to Candy) I was just showing Homer the orchards... kind of a geography lesson. 
CANDY (good-naturedly) I know what you've been doing. 
She pulls an apple branch, with an apple to two, out of the vehicle's grille--or else the branch is wedged in the front - bumper or headlight area. Candy playfully starts poking Wally with the branch. 
CANDY (to Wally) You've been giving him a *flying* lesson! 
WALLY (teasing her) He *loved* it! (to Homer) Didn't you? 
HOMER Yeah, it was great. 
Wally gets the apple branch away from Candy. He pins her arms at her sides--he hugs her, kisses her. She doesn't struggle. 
CANDY (laughing to Homer) He thinks people *like* to get whacked by branches. 
WALLY *Homer* liked it! (to Homer) Didn't you? 
HOMER Yeah, sure. There's no stress or strain around here... 
They all laugh. Homer observes the happy couple. 
EXT. ORCHARDS - DAY 
Homer is walking with Wally and Candy. The orchards are beautiful. 
EXT. PACKING HOUSE - MORNING 
Much activity: the pickers are unloading apple crates from a full flatbed trailer. An angry-looking VERNON gives Homer an evil glare. Homer spills some apples lifting the crate to the loading platform. 
VERNON What's wrong with you? 
Mr. Rose takes Homer aside. 
MR. ROSE That's Vernon. You best stay away from him until he gets to know you better--then you best stay away from him *more*! 
Wally, in full uniform, appears from inside the packing house; he calls for Homer. 
MR. ROSE Out lieutenant's calling you, Homer. Mind your ass. 
Homer smiles are runs toward Wally. 
INT./EXT. PACKING HOUSE - MORNING 
EDNA Homer was born *here*, in, what was it, 1922? 
LARCH "...graduated Bowdoin College, 1935, and Harvard School of Medicine, 1939." 
ANGELA This is *your* life story, Wilbur! You just changed the dates! 
LARCH "An internship and two years of training at the Boston Lying-in, South End Branch. For his age, he was judged an accomplished gynecological obstetrical surgeon; he is also experienced in pediatric care..." 
ANGELA You *invented* him! You've completely made his up! 
LARCH Don't you understand? The board is going to *replace* me! That's what the "new blood" is *for*! 
EDNA You mean they'll replace you with someone who won't perform abortions. 
LARCH (sarcastically) Well, we can only guess about that, Edna. They *are* against the law. 
ANGELA These *credentials* are against the law! 
LARCH We all know who trained Homer--his credentials are as good as mine are. Don't you be holy to me about the *law*! What has the law done for any of us here? 
Edna and Angela think this over. 
LARCH (points at file) So here is my candidate. What do you think? 
EDNA But what about school records? Homer doesn't have any *diplomas*... 
Larch turns the easel around. Attached is a parchment headed: "HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL"--it's a diploma-in-progress. 
LARCH He *will* have them, Edna. 
The women are shocked, awed. 
ANGELA Oh, Wilbur, I don't know... (sudden thought) We don't even know where he is! 
EXT. CIDER HOUSE, ROOF - NIGHT 
ROSE ROSE (O.S.) Where's that Homer? 
Homer stands in front of a ladder that leans against the cider house; he starts to climb up, drawn by the murmuring voices, the soft laughter. 
JACK (O.S.) Who cares? 
MR. ROSE (O.S.) Now, now. He's a good boy. 
JACK (O.S.) Shit. We don't know what he is. 
MR. ROSE (O.S.) Jack, you gotta watch your language 'round my daughter. 
Homer arrives at the top and sees everyone sitting on a long plank, a bench attached to the apex of the roof--obviously a popular spot. 
MR. ROSE Here he is. 
No one moves. 
MR. ROSE Where's your manners? Make room for Homer, so's he can enjoy the view. 
MUDDY What view? 
Peaches slides over and Homer sits down. 
HOMER Are we supposed to be up here? The rules said... 
MR. ROSE Homer, you the only one who's read them rules, so you the only one who feels like he's doin' somethin' wrong. 
The others laugh. 
MUDDY *What* view? 
MR. ROSE Well, Muddy, we can look at all these angry stars Homer's been readin' to us about. 
More laughter; Homer smiles, enjoying the teasing. 
JACK (gesturing toward the Worthington farmhouse) I bet the view looks better from the Worthin'tons'. 
MR. ROSE You think so, Jack? Well... I wouldn't want to be in that Wally's shoes tonight. 
ROSE ROSE (playfully, teasing him) Daddy, I'd like to be in that Wally's shoes *every* night. 
MR. ROSE (teasing her back) You lucky you in your work boots tonight, girl... 
ROSE ROSE What's lucky about that? 
Rose Rose is being physically affectionate with her father-- lightly punching his arm, rubbing the top of his head. 
MR. ROSE You know where that Wally is tonight, darlin'? He's up there in them angry stars. (gesturing at the dark sky) He's flyin' all around up there... with them Japs shooting at him. 
They all look up, imagining that. Homer more than the others. Rose Rose, looking thoughtful, rests her head on her father's shoulder. They are completely natural together. 
EXT. CAPE KENNETH - APPLE MART - DAY 
Homer and the pickers are loading crates of apples into a shipping truck. Olive and Candy are consulting some papers (the shipping tally) on a clipboard; Mr. Rose is standing beside them. 
Homer and Ray and Candy go up the gangplank from the dock to the lobster pound. 
RAY They're the garbage-eaters of the ocean's floor. The seagulls clean up the shore. The lobsters clean up the bottom of the sea. 
HOMER They eat everything? 
RAY Everything that falls to the bottom. 
CANDY It's time somebody ate *them*. 
RAY (to Candy) I was lookin' for Wally's letter. I was gonna show it to Homer... (to Homer) They made him a captain already-- *Captain* Worthington! 
CANDY Daddy, it's a letter to *me*. 
RAY He mentions Homer, too, you know. 
CANDY (awkwardly) Wally said to say, "Hello." 
HOMER (equally awkward) Oh! That's... nice. 
RAY (to Homer) Wally said the most spectacular hits were in the oil fields at Yenangyat. 
Later, through the window of the lobster pound, we see them eating lobster around a kitchen table. Laughter and some unclear dialogue drift to us. 
EXT./INT. CAPE KENNETH/WALLY'S CAR - NIGHT 
With the bicycle stowed in the trunk, Candy is driving Homer back to the cider house. They pass a drive-in movie theatre, the marquee announcing "CLOSED FOR THE SEASON." Homer stares in awe at the giant blank screen. 
HOMER A movie *outside*? 
CANDY Yes. But it's closed all the time now, because of the blackout. 
HOMER People watched the movies in their cars? 
CANDY (smiling) When they watched at all. Do you like movies? 
HOMER Yes! I've only seen one, though. 
Candy looks at him; he isn't joking. 
CANDY You've seen only one movie? Which one? 
HOMER "King Kong". It's really good. 
Candy laughs. 
CANDY I haven't seen "King Kong" since I was a kid! 
Homer laughs a little self-consciously; around her, he feels like he's *still* a kid. 
INT. DINING HALL - EARLY MORNING 
At one table, the children are happily eating apples; a few of the kids are stuffing apples from a big bowl into their pockets. At another table, Larch, Edna, and Angela sit around an open packing crate of apples. Larch takes a bite from an apple and spits it out. Angela takes the apple out of his hand. 
ANGELA That's a pie apple, Wilbur. Homer said you're not supposed to eat it! 
Angela hands him another apple. 
LARCH So he's an apple expert, is he? 
Angela gives him a critical look as Larch takes a bite out of the new apple. 
LARCH (sarcastically) Oh my, yes! This is a *far* superior taste--and crisp, too! You know, so many apples are disappointingly mealy. I wonder of most of the apples in my life weren't meant for pies! 
ANGELA Wilbur, he picked them for us himself... 
LARCH (incredulous) You don't find it depressing that Homer Wells is picking apples? 
Both Edna and Angela glower at him. 
LARCH Or that he can't be bothered to write us a proper letter? A dissertation on apples, we don't need! 
EDNA (annoyed) He probably doesn't make much money picking apples--he must have had to pay to send them, too. 
LARCH I wouldn't worry, Edna, that he doesn't have money. If he gets hungry, he can pick his dinner! 
Larch angrily tosses the half-eaten apple into the garbage. 
EDNA Wilbur, it's a *gift*! How can you be angry with Homer for sending us a *gift*? 
Larch stares into space, depressed. Then he examines the crate and finds the mailing label that says "OCEAN VIEW ORCHARDS--CAPE KENNETH, MAINE." He rips it off, holds it up triumphantly. 
LARCH I'll show him a *gift*! I'll give him a gift he can *use*! 
Larch storms out of the room. 
INT. CAPE KENNETH - MOVIE THEATRE - NIGHT 
A newsreel from the war is playing on the screen--soldiers marching, smiling, waving to the camera. Homer and Candy sit together watching. Homer is completely fascinated; Candy watches Homer as much as the news. Her expression changes when the newsreel cuts to footage from an air raid. 
EXT. CAPE KENNETH - MOVIE THEATRE - NIGHT 
CANDY You just cuddle. You come to hug... to kiss. You don't *come* here to watch the movie. 
HOMER (teasing her) That's what *I'd* come here for. I'd watch the movie. 
CANDY Not with the right girl you wouldn't. 
Homer's expression changes from exhilarated to guilty. He leans back in his seat and looks straight ahead at the screen. Candy tentatively leans her head on his shoulder. Homer looks afraid to breathe. 
From behind, with her head on his shoulder, they look like a normal couple. We track in toward the huge screen until we see only the screen. There are shadows on the black screen. Suddenly the movie "King Kong" appears. 
INT. DINING HALL - NIGHT 
"King Kong" is playing against the bare, white wall. Fuzzy is very weak, but he smiles at the sight of the love-struck Kong holding the screaming Fay Wray in his giant hand. Dr. Larch runs the projector; he sits close beside Fuzzy. When the film breaks in the predictable place, Fuzzy makes no protest. Dr. Larch looks at Fuzzy, who has stopped breathing; his eyes are closed. 
LARCH Fuzzy? Fuzzy? 
They are alone in the dining hall. Larch has wheeled in Fuzzy for a private viewing. 
EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - GRAVEYARD - MORNING 
Buster helps Larch lower the small coffin into the grave. The tiny gravestone says "F.S." 
BUSTER What are you going to tell the little ones? 
LARCH I'll tell them Fuzzy was adopted. 
BUSTER Why would the little ones believe that *anyone* would adopt him? 
LARCH They'll believe it because they want to believe it. 
BUSTER Shouldn't we tell Homer? 
LARCH If Homer wanted to know what was happening here, he could pick up a telephone and call us. 
INT. BOYS' DIVISION - NIGHT 
The boys in their beds listen to Buster inventing Fuzzy's "family." 
BUSTER It was a family with a better breathing machine then the one Dr. Larch built. 
INT. ST. CLOUD'S - CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
Larch leans against the wall, covering his eyes, overhearing the boys. 
BUSTER (O.S.) The family that adopted Fuzzy, they *invented* the breathing machine. It's their business... breathing machines. 
Larch pauses; he waits to see if they believe this. 
CURLY (O.S.) Lucky Fuzzy! 
Larch almost breaks with a sudden sharp breath. 
ALL THE BOYS (O.S.) Good night, Fuzzy! Good night, Fuzzy! Good night, Fuzzy Stone! 
EXT. CIDER HOUSE - MORNING 
As the men sit at the picnic table eating their cornbread, Rose Rose pours coffee. A jeep comes down the orchard road toward them. It's Olive. Mr. Rose leads the "Good mornin', Mrs. Worthin'ton!" greeting. Olive has an armful of clothing and a fairly sizable package; she brings the latter over to Homer. 
OLIVE Some mail for you, Homer. 
Homer shakes the package; he puts the package beside the table, unopened. Olive turns to Rose Rose. 
OLIVE And some clothes for you, dear-- (nodding to the cider house) let's go see if they fit. 
Mr. Rose watches Rose Rose and Olive disappear into the cider house. The other men view Homer's package with curiosity, especially Peaches. 
PEACHES Ain't you gonna see what it is, Homer? 
MR. ROSE Mind your own business, Peaches. 
PEACHES Sorry, Homer... 
INT. BUNKHOUSE - LATE AT NIGHT 
Homer lies awake in bed; everyone else is asleep. Homer pulls the package out from under his bed, opening it just enough to see what it is; then he shoves it back under his bed. 
EXT. OCEAN/BEACH - DUSK 
The beach at sunset. Candy and Homer, dressed for cooler weather, are alone at the water's edge. From a paper bag, Candy is scattering some small, brightly colored pieces of broken glass. 
HOMER Aren't you worried that people will cut their feet? 
CANDY Nobody will swim here until next summer. By then, the water will have rubbed the glass smooth against the sand--there won't be any sharp edges. 
She finds and old piece of glass among the stones and shells at the high-tide mark. 
CANDY See? That's last year's glass, or from some year before. I put glass here every year. The ocean makes it beautiful. 
Candy holds up a piece of glass to the sun for Homer to look at. The ocean is a gray-green color, the glass a paler shade of green. 
CANDY Give me your hand. 
MUDDY It's that Candy, too... 
Then comes Mr. Rose, slyly smiling, taking it all in--there's no hiding what's going on. Homer and Candy are caught, their shirts untucked and half-unbuttoned--they're still out of breath. The pillows lie crazily on the beds, each one of which has been stepped on. 
MR. ROSE Don't this place look like home? 
PEACHES It look nicer then home! 
MR. ROSE What have you two been doin' to make it look so nice? 
Rose Rose enters. She looks hardened, toughened--not happy. She plops down her stuff on her bed, looking only at Candy. 
ROSE ROSE How is that Wally doing? 
CANDY Oh, he's fine! I just heard from him. He's bombing all these places... 
Homer tries to help out. 
HOMER (mumbling) ...bridges, oil refineries, fuel depots... 
He peters out, knowing how sick of hearing this Candy is. He tries to change the subject. 
HOMER Where's Jack? 
There is an uncomfortable silence. 
MUDDY He just wasn't up for the trip. 
More silence. 
MR. ROSE That Jack just never knew what his business was. 
One look at Muddy and we know something pretty bad happened to Jack. 
EXT. ORCHARDS - DAY 
The pickers on their ladders, all picking. Homer is now a good picker; he looks over at Rose Rose. She is slumped against the ladder, not picking, completely ignoring an argument beneath them in the aisle between the trees. (Mr. Rose is checking over the apples Peaches has just picked.) 
MR. ROSE You pickin' nothin' but cider apples, Peaches--I hope you understand that. 
PEACHES They ain't drops--I picked 'em off the tree! 
MR. ROSE Then you pickin' 'em too fast--they ain't no better than drops to me. See that bruise, and that one? *Half* of these is bruised! Look at this one! It ain't got no stem! You might as well *step* on 'em, too--they only good for cider. 
EXT. ORCHARDS - DUSK 
In the aisle between the trees, Homer and Candy are arguing in one of the work vehicles. 
CANDY Do you think I'm having a good time? Do you think I'm just *teasing* you? Do you think I *know* whether I want you or Wally? 
HOMER So we should "wait and see." For how long? 
CANDY I grew up with Wally. I began my adult life with him. 
HOMER Fine. That's all there is to it then. 
CANDY No! That's not all there is to it! I love you, too--I *know* I do. 
HOMER Okay, okay--I know you do, too. 
CANDY (bitterly) It's a good thing I didn't have that baby, isn't it? 
Her sudden hardness leaves him speechless as they go their separate ways. Candy drives on. 
EXT. CIDER HOUSE - SUNNY MORNING 
Breakfast time at the picnic table. Rose Rose by herself, away from the table. She does not look well; she suddenly goes back inside the bunkhouse. 
PEACHES (calling after her) Ain't you eatin' with us, Rose? (to the men) She used to eat with us. Now we ain't good enough for her, I guess. 
HERO She ain't hungry, maybe. 
MUDDY She ain't hungry every mornin' 'cause she's sick every mornin'. 
Homer gets up to take his dishes inside. 
INT. KITCHEN AND BUNKHOUSE - MORNING 
When Homer comes in, Rose Rose is throwing up in the sink. 
HOMER You okay, Rose? 
ROSE ROSE I guess you must like watchin' me be sick... 
HOMER I don't like watching anyone be sick. 
Rose Rose lies down on her bed with the curtain open. There is something familiar about the way Homer approaches her bedside; he does so with the authority of a doctor. He sits on the edge of her bed with such complete self-assurance that she doesn't protest. 
HOMER How many months are you? 
She just stares. But she doesn't stop him when he touches her abdomen. It's as if she knows that he knows what he's doing. 
Rose Rose stops; she can't even continue setting the table. Her voice turns bitter, despairing. 
ROSE ROSE It sure ain't Jack. 
There, suddenly, is Mr. Rose, walking past them. He is uncharacteristically tentative. 
MR. ROSE (to his daughter) I'll be up top... 
Mr. Rose leaves Candy and Rose Rose alone again. Rose Rose nods almost invisibly after her father. Rose Rose looks pointedly at Candy, nodding. Candy slowly gets it. Mr. Rose is the father! Rose Rose lets that sink in; she keeps looking at Candy with an ashamed expression. 
EXT. ORCHARD - DAY 
The pickers are at work, on their ladders, when Candy runs down the aisle between two rows of trees. She stops at the bottom of Homer's ladder, out of breath. Muddy and Peaches and Hero, in the treetops, are watching and listening. 
CANDY She won't go to St. Cloud's! 
HOMER (shrugging) Well, we can't force her. It's her decision. 
CANDY You don't understand! It's her father... 
HOMER Mr. Rose *knows*? 
CANDY (shouting) He's the *father*! He's her baby's father! 
The pickers can't help but hear this, too. Candy starts to leave, Homer running after her. 
HOMER Wait... *wait*! Are you sure? 
CANDY We've got to keep her away from that bastard! 
Candy leaves. Homer starts looking for Mr. Rose. 
EXT. ORCHARD, NEAR CIDER HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER 
Smiling his enigmatic smile, Mr. Rose keeps slowly picking while Homer stands at the foot of his ladder. 
MR. ROSE I didn't see where you was pickin' this mornin', Homer, but you musta worked up a big appetite. You look like you're serious about gettin' to your lunch today! 
HOMER Is it true? 
Mr. Rose stops picking, his eyes darting to see who's around. 
HOMER Are you sleeping with your own daughter? 
Mr. Rose, with deliberate slowness, comes down the ladder. 
MR. ROSE (slyly; still composed) I think you been stayin' up too late at night, Homer. 
HOMER You're actually having sex with your own little girl? Is that possible? 
MR. ROSE Ain't nobody havin' *sex* with my little girl, Homer--that's somethin' a father knows. 
HOMER You're lying. How can you... with your own daughter! 
Mr. Rose switches from sly to threatening in a split second. 
MR. ROSE Homer, don't you know what business you in? You don't wanna go into no business with me, Homer--ain't that right? 
HOMER Go on, cut my clothes. I've got other clothes. 
Mr. Rose is indignant. 
MR. ROSE You a fine one to be talkin' about lies. Shame! These people took you in. That boy Wally's at *war*! 
That takes some of the steam out of Homer's superiority. 
HOMER But she's your *daughter*... 
MR. ROSE And I *love* her! There ain't nobody else gonna treat her as good as I do! (looks away) I wouldn't do nothin' to hurt her, Homer--you must know that. 
Homer turns; he speaks over his shoulder as he walks away. 
HOMER She's *pregnant*. Do you know *that*? 
By his expression--he looks as if he's been punched--it's clear that Mr. Rose didn't *know that*. 
The other pickers are on their way to lunch; it's obvious that Muddy, Peaches, and Hero already know that Mr. Rose is sleeping with his daughter. 
EXT. CIDER HOUSE - PICNIC AREA - LUNCHTIME 
Rose Rose is sitting at the picnic table when the pickers arrive for lunch, almost simultaneously with Homer. He looks at, then looks away from, Rose Rose. Mr. Rose is the last to sit down at the table as a very tense, wordless lunch begins. 
EXT. ORCHARD - DAY 
Homer is on a ladder picking apples. Muddy climbs a ladder on the other side of the same tree. 
MUDDY Don't mess in this, Homer, if you know what's good for you. 
HOMER How long's this been going on, Muddy? 
MUDDY Long enough. You ain't gonna stop it. 
Homer tries to cuddle closer, but Candy sits up, preoccupied. 
HOMER Just tell me. I'll do whatever you want to do. 
CANDY Nothing. 
HOMER Isn't that like waiting and seeing? 
CANDY No. Nothing is nothing. I want Wally to come home. I'm afraid to see him, too. 
HOMER I know. (he kisses her) Is *that* nothing. 
CANDY No, don't--that's something. Nothing is nothing. (Homer's sad smile) Don't even look at me. I want... 
Candy buries her face in his chest. 
CANDY ...to do nothing. 
Homer holds her, doing nothing, while she sobs. As her crying subsides, Homer's thoughts are far away. With Candy slumped against him, hugging him, he doesn't look at her; instead, he looks out to sea and at the darkening coast, Candy's words resonating. An unfamiliar expression is on his face. 
HOMER (mumbling to himself) It's a tempting idea, I know... to do nothing. 
Candy is silent. Homer feels strangely agitated; he shifts his position. 
CANDY (groans) Please don't move, don't go anywhere. 
HOMER (overly genuine) *Go* anywhere? Of course not! That would be *doing* something, wouldn't it? We wouldn't want to *do* something. Let's just sit here all night! 
CANDY (irritated) If you're trying to be funny, Homer... 
HOMER (irritated, too) I'm not trying to be anything--I'm just doing nothing! If I wait and see long enough, then--with any luck-- I won't *ever* have to make up my mind! Decisions can be painful, after all... 
Candy is angry; she gets to her feet and stares hard at him. 
CANDY Stop it! Just cut it out! 
HOMER (mock surprise) You got up! You *did* something! If you keep this up, you might be in danger of making a *decision*! 
CANDY For God's sake, Homer, Wally's been shot down! 
Candy sobs. Homer puts his face in his hands for a minute. He regains his composure and stands up. 
HOMER (genuinely contrite) I know, I'm sorry. 
CANDY (yelling and sobbing) He's *paralyzed*! 
HOMER (deadpan; just the facts) He's *alive*. He still loves you. (pause) So do I. 
CANDY (anguished) What do you want me to *do*? 
He faces away from her. 
HOMER (with calm resolve) Nothing. You're not the one who has to do anything. 
EXT. CIDER HOUSE - NIGHT 
Homer is in semidarkness as he walks toward the cider house. 
MR. ROSE (O.S.) Where do you think you're going? 
ROSE ROSE (O.S.) You gotta let me go, Daddy. Please... 
Homer walks faster. When he gets to the cider house, he sees Mr. Rose and Rose Rose arguing. Rose is sitting on the bicycle, a bundle of her clothes tied up behind the seat. 
MR. ROSE You ain't goin' nowhere in the middle of the night, girl! 
ROSE ROSE I ain't your business no more, Daddy. Please let me go. 
Rose Rose starts to pedal away, but Mr. Rose stops her. She starts to struggle. 
HOMER Hey, hey! Stop it. Maybe I can help. 
They turn to see Homer. 
MR. ROSE You just go inside, Homer. We don't need no help. 
ROSE ROSE That's right, Homer. This ain't your business. 
She tries to break free from her father and pedal away, but he stops her again. They keep struggling. 
HOMER Please listen to me! *Both* of you... 
MR. ROSE You forget yourself, Homer. This here's my daughter! You got your own mess to deal with--ain't that right? 
Homer steps between them, which makes Mr. Rose furious. 
MR. ROSE (yelling) What business is you in, Homer? 
HOMER Mr. Rose, I'm in the *doctor* business. (to Rose Rose) If you want, I can help you. You don't have to go anywhere. 
Rose Rose and Mr. Rose stop struggling. Suddenly Homer is in charge. 
HOMER "Two: Please don't go up to the roof to eat your lunch." 
PEACHES That's the best place to eat lunch! 
HOMER "Three: Please--even if you are very hot--do not go up to the roof to sleep." 
HERO What do they think? They must think we're crazy! 
MUDDY They think we're dumb niggers so we need dumb rules--that's what they think. 
HOMER This is the last one. 
The men groan, in mock disappointment. 
HOMER "Four: There should be no going up on the roof at night." 
PEACHES Why don't they just say, "Stay off the roof!"? 
HERO Yeah, they don't want us up there *at all*! 
Homer crumples the list and throws it into the wood stove. 
ROSE ROSE (to Homer) That's *it*? 
HOMER That's it. 
ROSE ROSE It means nothin' at all! And all this time I been *wonderin'* about it! 
PEACHES They're *outrageous*, them rules! 
MR. ROSE Who *live* here in this cider house, Peaches? Who grind them apples, who press that cider, who clean up the mess, and who just plain *live* here... just breathin' in the vinegar? (he pauses) Somebody who *don't* live here made them rules. Them rules ain't for *us*. *We* the ones who make up them rules. We makin' our *own* rules, every day. Ain't that right, Homer? 
HOMER Right. 
Camera closes on Candy. 
INT./EXT. WALLY'S CAR - DRIVE-IN THEATRE - EVENING 
Homer and Candy sit and stare at the blank screen; they don't look at each other. Candy grips the steering wheel of the parked car. 
CANDY Please don't make me say it again. 
HOMER No, that's not it--I just want to be sure I understand you. 
Candy slumps forward with her forehead on the steering wheel. 
HOMER I *helped* you not to think about Wally. You were so upset--you couldn't stand worrying about him, about his being killed and not coming back-- but when you were with me, you could stop worrying... well, for a while, anyway. This is how I helped you, right? 
CANDY Please... that's enough. I *loved* you, too--you know I did. 
HOMER "...did." Well, okay. 
CANDY Please don't... 
HOMER (sarcastically) And now that Wally's coming back, and because he'll certainly *need* you... 
CANDY You say that as though it's some awful thing! (angrily) I never stopped loving Wally! 
Homer lets that sink in. 
HOMER (still sarcastic) At least there's no more waiting and seeing. At least I got to see the ocean. 
Candy covers her face in her hands and cries uncontrollably, unstoppably. Homer's anger keeps him impervious to her tears-- another "first" for him. He turns and looks at her with an almost clinical curiosity; then he goes back to staring at the blank screen. 
EXT. ORCHARD - IN FRONT OF THE APPLE MART - DAWN 
The rain has stopped but the grass is wet, the trees glistening in the dawn light as Wally's car stops and Homer gets out. The car exits the frame in one direction; Homer, walking, exits the frame in another. 
EXT. CIDER HOUSE - DAWN 
As he walks toward the cider house, Homer sees Muddy and Peaches and Hero waving to him from the roof. 
MUDDY Rose Rose has runned away! 
PEACHES She took off in the night! 
MUDDY She took off on the bicycle, man. 
Homer starts jogging, then running toward the cider house. Muddy comes down the ladder to meet him. 
INT. BUNKHOUSE - EARLY MORNING 
Rose Rose's bed is exposed. The curtains are flung open; her bed is empty. Mr. Rose is still in his bed, in the fetal position we have seen before. Mr. Rose's trancelike expression doesn't change as Homer and Muddy enter. 
MR. ROSE Ain't nobody gonna find her, Homer-- she's long gone. (pause) I swear, I didn't try and stop her-- I just wanna touch her hand before she go. That's all I wanna do, I swear. (pause) Where'd she get that knife, Muddy? That looked like *your* knife--what I seen of it. 
Muddy is scared; he looks to Homer for advice. 
MR. ROSE If that was your knife, Muddy, I wanna thank you for givin' it to her-- no girl should be goin' *hitch-hikin'* if she don't got a good knife with her. 
HOMER (seeing the blood) Where'd she get you? 
He tries to turn his face away from the cone, but he presses his face into the sill--thus holding the ether-soaked cone over his mouth and nose. His hands twitch, he's trying to wake up; the hand that holds the ether bottle lets the bottle fall. The bottle shatters against the sill; the ether spreads, running red with blood from a cut on Dr. Larch's hand or finger. Music continues Over. It's a funeral. 
INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
Buster is bringing in the wood as the music plays Over. Buster smells the spilled ether. He heads toward the dispensary, sniffing. Camera follows him into the dispensary. 
In the dispensary: Buster approaches Larch's ether-bed. 
BUSTER Dr. Larch? Dr. Larch? 
He drops the armload of wood and runs for help. 
INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT 
Angela enters. She feels for Larch's pulse; Larch is dead. Angela opens a window. She pull's Larch's body away from the windowsill. Buster joins her on the bed. 
ANGELA (V.O.) I can assure you that the overdose was entirely accidental. 
INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT 
Homer finishes reading the letter; he puts it down, gets up, and walks to a window. He stares into the night. 
ANGELA (V.O.) Let us be happy for Dr. Larch. Dr. Larch has found a family. 
THE BOYS (V.O.) Good night, Dr. Larch! Good night, Dr. Larch! Good night, Dr. Larch! 
Homer wipes a tear off his cheek. 
EXT. PICKERS' TRUCK - CIDER/PACKING HOUSE - MORNING 
The truck is packed for the long trip south; it passes by the packing house, which looks closed for the season. No one else is about. Muddy is driving slowly, his arm out the open window. In the back, huddled among their belongings, are Peaches and Hero (on one side) and Homer (on the other). The pickers are trying to draw Homer into their conversation, while Homer is giving the apple farm a good-bye look. He has made up his mind about something. 
MUDDY You ever see a palm tree, Homer? 
PEACHES He ain't never been outta Maine! 
HERO Ain't you sick of pine trees, Homer? 
Homer just smiles and shakes his head. 
EXT. WORTHINGTON HOUSE, DRIVEWAY - MORNING 
As the pickers' truck drives past, Homer is on the side of the truck nearest the Worthington house and driveway; he sees Olive and Candy and Ray helping Wally out of the car and into a wheelchair. A NURSE stands by. 
Wally is wearing what appears to be an oversized officer's coat or flight jacket, his face looking small in the overlarge clothes. He can't move his legs at all, and his mouth is drawn into a tight-lipped smile. 
PEACHES (O.S.) Let me tell you somethin' about Florida, Homer. 
HERO (O.S.) The Sunshine State! 
PEACHES (O.S.) It's so nice 'n' warm down there, you can pick them grapefruits and oranges *naked*, if you want to. 
Olive is dissolved in tears. Candy is sobbing; she kisses Wally, without ceasing, while he haltingly touches her face, her hair. 
In the truck the smile is gone from Homer's face. He shakes his head. 
HOMER Thanks, guys... I'd like to go with you. But I've got to move on. 
MUDDY Yeah, well... you could move on with *us*, man! You could move on somewhere *warm*! 
PEACHES Homer, stayin' in Maine ain't movin' on! 
This makes all the pickers laugh, but Homer just smiles and shakes his head. He watches the Worthington house disappear from view. 
INT. MOVING TRAIN - PASSENGER CAR - NIGHT 
A CONDUCTOR, taking tickets, comes to Homer, who is better dressed than we've ever seen him; he is looking at his sober reflection in the black window-glass of the night train when the conductor gets his attention. When the conductor moves on, Homer takes Angela's letter out of his breast pocket; he skips ahead to the end. 
ANGELA (V.O.) Dr. Larch often wondered how the world was treating you. 
EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - GRAVEYARD - AFTERNOON 
ANGELA (V.O.) He talked a lot about you, hoping you would be of use, whatever you were up to. 
Angela and Buster and Mary Agnes and Edna carry Larch's coffin; they set it down by the raw hole. The pile of fresh dirt stands out against the new snow; the hole is black against the new white. 
EDNA (O.S.) "Oh, Lord, support us all the day long..." 
We see the wheelbarrow with the gravestone. 
EDNA (O.S.) "...until the shadows lengthen and the evening comes, and the busy world is hushed, and the fever of life is over, and our work is done." 
INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - NIGHT 
We see the faces of the girls praying for Larch (Mary Agnes, too) as Edna finishes her favorite prayer. 
EDNA "Then, in Thy mercy grant us a safe lodging, and a holy rest, and peace at the last." 
INT. MOVING TRAIN - PASSENGER CAR - NIGHT 
Camera closes on Homer, sleeping to the sound of the rocking train. Angela's letter lies in his lap. 
