THE CINCINNATI KID 
Written by 
Ring Lardner Jr. and Terry Southern 
Based on a novel by 
Richard Jessup 
SHOOTING DRAFT - 1965 
FADE IN: SERIES OF ESTABLISHING SHOTS - DAY 
Exterior scenes of St. Louis, particularly the riverside industrial district. Even more important to establish than the place is the time: end of summer, 1936. Election posters would help, with the Republican ones stressing such themes as "Burst the Roosevelt Bubble," "Save the American Way of Life," "Vote for Landon and Knox." 
EXT. FACTORY - DAY 
One of the most typical scenes of the day: a mass picket line outside a textile or shoe factory. And the picketing is anything but peaceful; the demonstrators are in direct conflict with the police, who are trying to keep an entrance open for strike-breakers. Whatever the general action, a small segment of struggle breaks off from it, and it is this that our CAMERA picks up: some police chasing some pickets or some pickets chasing some strike-breakers, the one faction pursuing the other up an alley with violent intent. 
EXT. ALLEY - DAY 
A couple of the pursuers catch up to the pursued and assault them with clubs or other weapons. The fighting is bitter, dirty and noisy. 
INT. KITCHEN IN SLEAZY RESTAURANT NEAR RAILROAD 
The eight men gathered here in a game of five-card stud are clearly removed from the struggle outside, even though the SOUNDS of it are very close, coming through window opening on the alley. In fact the noise is so loud that the DEALER of the hand in progress reacts in annoyance. 
DEALER Somebody shut the goddam window. Let a man think. 
The player nearest the window shuts it. The Dealer, who also owns the restaurant, is the talkative type of poker player. Except for THE CINCINNATI KID, the other men at the table look like hoods of one sort or another: gunmen, labor spies, extortionists, what have you. The man who fancies himself the toughest of them all is named DANNY, and he and The Kid have almost all the money on the table between them, about a hundred dollars in front of each. No other player has more than a few dollars left, and now, as fifth cards are dealt, there is about forty dollars in the pot. Only four men are left in the hand. 
DEALER Possible straight gets a -- (deals the card) -- lovely little four. 
FIRST PLAYER On the last hand even, you couldn't give me a break. 
DEALER I put the brakes on your straight, didn't I? (he laughs; no one else does; he deals to The Kid) There you are, son, a gorgeous deuce. 
KID Thanks. 
DEALER (deals to Danny) And our lucky friend from Chicago gets a queen with his pair of sixes. Little lady make you happy, Buster? 
DANNY Deal to yourself, clown. 
DEALER Dealer gives himself a -- (deals card and groans) I might have known. (to Danny) Bet your sixes, Buster. 
DANNY I told you not to call me that. (then as the dealer turns away) Cost you -- (counts out his money) Ninety-four bucks. 
DEALER Biggest pot of the whole game, I got to drop. 
DANNY (to First Player) Interested? 
FIRST PLAYER Wouldn't call you if I had a pair higher'n sixes. Which I ain't. 
He turns over his cards, leaving it up to The Kid. 
KID Don't seem like he'd bet out without something better than the sixes, does it? (fingers hole card as if to fold) Cost me every cent I've won since yesterday afternoon. (studies Danny's face) But I tell you, I got this stubborn streak. Call the ninety-four dollars. 
He counts out the money, which is almost all he has. 
DANNY (indignantly) You can't have better than a pair of kings! 
KID Oh, I'm not claiming anything that fine. (turns over an eight, making a pair of them) Just enough to beat the pair of sixes. 
DANNY You seen my hole card, you bastard! (indicating Dealer) He was dealing them high. 
Attending to first things first, The Kid has been pulling in the pot, adding it to his own stake, and pocketing the total. Now as Danny accuses him again, The Kid looks him squarely in the face. 
DANNY You stole that dough. 
KID You better watch those loose lips of yours, you want to have any teeth left behind them -- Buster. 
He stands up. 
DANNY You wouldn't of shelled out ninety- four bucks -- 
KID I called you on account of I didn't think you had another pair or another six and I know a punk like you would get greedy and try and buy the last hand. 
He walks off, disappearing through a door marked "MEN." 
INT. MEN'S ROOM - THE KID AT MIRROR 
SHOOTER He won't, the way I'll spread the word. He'll have to take you on, someone in your class. If he ducked it, that'd make you The Man. 
KID You think he knows I'm around? 
SHOOTER He can smell meat like you a mile and a half up the river. He knows you're around and he'll sit down with you. You want to butt heads with The Man, I'll set it up. 
Ahead, on the levee, CHRISTIAN is seen waiting for The Kid. She has not yet seen them as they approach off the pier. 
SHOOTER There's your woman. 
KID I wouldn't want to wait around too long. I want to get in and get it over with. 
SHOOTER He must of come to St. Louis for a big money game. I'll probably get asked do I want to deal it for them. And however long that takes, he'll have to rest up for you. 
KID Oh, well, if he's tooling a dollar, I can understand that. Sure. 
SHOOTER You got much of a stake? 
KID Close to three grand. 
SHOOTER Work on it. But three grand will give you a ride and even if you don't win, why you'll come away with a good idea of what you're made of. But once you go in Kid you can't quit. You get that straight right now. Two of you go in and only one of you can come out. 
Christian sees them and moves toward them. 
KID Well, school's out. I damn sure don't want no lessons. I want everything he's got. 
SHOOTER It's the only way to be, Kid. 
Shooter turns away abruptly as Christian arrives, giving her a brief nod. 
SHOOTER See you. 
The Kid takes Christian's arm automatically; he watches The Shooter walk way down Harold Street. He and Christian head in another direction. She is humming a mountain tune. 
CHRISTIAN When we leaving town, Kid? This week? 
KID No, I won't be ready. Not for a while. 
CHRISTIAN I thought -- 
KID Might even turn out we don't go. 
She is surprised by this and, in her own hesitant way, curious. 
CHRISTIAN You must feel different about it than you did Saturday. 
He looks at her fondly and, for one fleeting moment of weakness, is actually tempted to tell her about Lancey. But it is too sharp a break with tradition. 
KID Yeah, I'm feeling a little different. (TIME LAPSE) 
INT. KID'S BEDROOM 
It is night and the room is lit only by a single lamp where Christian sits in her nightgown on a chair by the window, turning over the pages of a mail-order catalogue. In f.g. The Kid lies on his back under a sheet on the bed, his eyes closed and his hands clasped tensely behind his neck. He opens his eyes and turns to look at her. The movement catches her eye, and she instantly stops turning the pages, afraid the noise has disturbed him. 
KID It's all right. You don't have to act like a cat. You're not bothering me. 
CHRISTIAN You want me to turn out the light? 
KID No. I'm overtired, that's why I can't sleep. (sits up and swings his feet to the floor) Why can't you sleep? 
CHRISTIAN (lightly) Undertired, I guess. If a person rests all day, she doesn't have much to rest up from at night. (stands up) Why don't you have a nice hot bath? I could give you a rubdown and then you could have a nice hot bath, and then maybe you could sleep. 
She waits at the foot of the bed for him to come slowly to a decision. 
KID 'Kay. Can't hurt to try it. 
She goes into the bathroom, where she turns the water on gently so the tub will take a long while to fill. Then she takes a bottle of alcohol from the medicine chest and returns to the bedroom with it. She stands in front of him waiting for him to move, but The Kid is singularly listless. Not till she sets the bottle down does he respond by turning his face to the pillow. She goes right to work on his shoulder muscles, and she seems to know what she is doing. 
KID What did you do with yourself this time? 
CHRISTIAN Last night I went to a movie with The Shooter's woman. French movie. 
KID In French? 
CHRISTIAN They had the words in English at the bottom of the picture. But The Shooter's woman knew what they were saying without it. Pig's woman or somebody told me she went to college. 
KID Sure. Majored in man-eating. 
CHRISTIAN I think maybe she really did go. But I never quite dared to up and ask her. 
KID I didn't know you ran with The Shooter's woman. 
CHRISTIAN Will it be long? 
KID Why? (then) What's the matter? 
CHRISTIAN I thought -- 
KID Thought what? 
CHRISTIAN I'd go home and see Mama. 
KID I wouldn't be able to spare you much change. 
CHRISTIAN Oh, I wouldn't want much. Bus is really the best way to go. 
KID Would a hundred fish do it? For the bus and something nice to bring your Mama? 
CHRISTIAN That would be fine, Kid. Just fine. 
KID When would you want to go? 
CHRISTIAN There's no reason for not going right now unless -- 
She lowers her eyes, finding it hard to say the words. 
KID Unless what? 
CHRISTIAN Unless you wanted to go to bed first. 
KID Do you want to? Would you like it? 
CHRISTIAN Un-huh. I'd like it. 
KID You want dessert? 
CHRISTIAN No. You? 
KID (shakes head) Coffee? 
CHRISTIAN I don't need it. 
KID Neither do I. 
He looks o.s. raising a hand to summon the check. 
(TIME LAPSE) 
INT. KID'S APARTMENT - DARKENED WINDOW 
It is dark in the room and dark outside, the street lamps furnishing only enough light for a faint border around the window shade. Christian's head and nude back move into the Shot; she pulls the shade aside to look out. 
LONG SHOT - ILLUMINATED CLOCK - CHRISTIAN'S P.O.V. - NIGHT 
The time is a few minutes before ten. 
INT. KID'S APARTMENT - CHRISTIAN 
She lets the shade fall back into place. Moving quietly in the darkness, she begins to dress. CAMERA PULLS BACK and PANS to include The Kid, lying on the bed with a sheet over him. He seems to be asleep until he speaks. 
KID You still haven't said it. 
CHRISTIAN Said what? 
KID If you're coming back. 
Christian abandons the process of dressing herself and sits down in the easy chair to answer this question. 
CHRISTIAN Maybe I ought to stay with Mama and Papa a while, and see. 
KID What's to see? 
CHRISTIAN I never did like city streets. 
KID Oh. 
CHRISTIAN Uh-huh. The promise didn't fulfill itself for me. 
KID Promise? 
CHRISTIAN Come to the city and all. Electric lights and flush toilets. All the pretty dreams -- it was all promise. 
KID Oh, I see. 
The Kid and Christian sit in silence. She puts her hand on his. 
(TIME LAPSE) 
INT. BUS TERMINAL 
The Kid and Christian sit on a bench in the waiting room, still silent. He has her suitcase between his legs and a pile of magazines on his lap. She looks at a clock and gets to her feet. He follows her to the door, carrying the suitcase and magazines. 
EXT. BUS PLATFORM - NIGHT 
Christian boards a bus that has seen better days. On the steps she turns to take the bag from him, but he follows her on. 
INT. BUS - NIGHT 
Christian takes a seat. The Kid puts her suitcase in the overhead rack and hands her the magazines, none of which would be classed as heavy reading. 
CHRISTIAN Goodbye, Kid. Good luck. 
KID Goodbye, Christian. 
They don't kiss. He turns and goes out. 
EXT. BUS PLATFORM - NIGHT 
There are not many passengers boarding this bus. After a couple of moments, the driver closes the door and starts off. Christian waves from the window, and The Kid waves back to her. When the bus has gone, he walks around the outside of the terminal to the front. 
EXT. FRONT OF BUS TERMINAL - NIGHT 
There are a couple of cabs at a taxi stand. One of the hackies offers his services to The Kid, but The Kid declines. He wants to walk. 
(TIME LAPSE) 
INT. ROOM IN PLUSH HOTEL 
It is midday and the poker game is almost twenty- four hours old. Our attention is focused on Bill Schlaegel, who is writing out a check. 
BILL Four stacks? Right, Schooter? 
SHOOTER Four. 
The Shooter takes advantage of the lull in the proceedings to move to the telephone. 
BILL Thank you for the entertainment, gentlemen. My particular gratitude to you, Lancey. It's been a rare pleasure to watch a great artist at work. Thank you for the privilege. 
Lancey gives him a quick look, finding this a bit thick. 
LANCEY Well now, son, you're quite welcome. Can't say I recall another man, in all my days on the three rivers, who seemed to find it quite so pleasurable losing all that money. 
Bill puts his check down in front of The Shooter's place, and gets to his feet. 
BILL Good day, gentlemen. You're welcome to use the premises as long as you like. 
CAMERA MOVES with Bill as he passes The Shooter, who is waiting on the phone while the hotel operator dials his number. Bill gives him a friendly pat on the back, and speaks in a low, harsh voice for The Shooter's ears alone. 
BILL I want to see you. 
Bill goes out. Shooter looks after him as his party comes on the phone. 
SHOOTER (into phone) Hi, Kid. Shooter here. Listen, I told the woman I'd take her to the ball park, but I'm still working. How about you and Christian take her out? 
INT. KID'S APARTMENT 
KID (into phone) Christian's gone home to see her folks. 
INT. PLUSH HOTEL ROOM 
SHOOTER (into phone) Oh. (then) Well listen, would you mind taking her yourself? The gang'll be there, in the section... Thanks. Appreciate it. See you. 
He hangs up, returns to the table and starts to shuffle the cards in his own spectacular way. 
(TIME LAPSE) 
EXT. BUSCH STADIUM, ST. LOUIS - DAY 
A game is in progress between the Cardinals and another National League club. The batter at the plate connects for a long one. CAMERA FOLLOWS the flight of the ball. 
EXT. STANDS - THE KID AND MELBA 
They are making their way to meet their friends in the section they prefer. They stop to watch the ball as the fans around them rise to their feet. The section they have just reached is in the sun, overlooking the outfield. 
EXT. FIELD 
He stands up but doesn't move toward her. 
KID Sure you are. You're The Shooter's woman. 
MELBA Right. And maybe I'll go on being The Shooter's Woman, even after you and I have had our little romp. What do you think about that? 
KID First place, Old Shooter'll come barging through that door any minute. He said they were winding it up. 
MELBA No barging. He doesn't have his key with him. (stands up) Have to buzz from downstairs. (moves toward him provocatively) So we can treat ourselves to a little sample of things to come. 
The Kid stays where he is as she comes up against him. 
KID Also it don't mean anything to you, you're Christian's friend? 
MELBA Honey, she lost her franchise the minute she got on that bus. You know that. (her arms around him) I have a shaky sense of security, Kid. Don't make me feel unwanted. 
He kisses her and lets himself enjoy it for a while, then pulls away. 
MELBA No good? 
KID You know damn well how good it was. Where's a pack of cards? 
MELBA What do we need cards for? 
KID Gin or casino, you name it. All I know is we're switching to another indoor sport. 
INT. ROOM IN PLUSH HOTEL 
The poker game is over. Two of the Wealthy Types have already departed; one is finishing a drink on the way out; another is putting his winnings into his wallet; a third is writing out a check. Lancey and The Shooter still sit at the table in f.g. 
SHOOTER Lady Fingers'll want to come, I bet, and she's right on the edge of her stake. She could spell me dealing. 
LANCEY Sure, sure. Haven't seen the dear old bitch in fifteen years. 
SHOOTER Well, that's it, then. Monday night, Room Three-Eleven at the Dorset Hotel. And may the best man win. 
LANCEY Yes, that's how it usually comes out in the long run. You think this boy is going to give me trouble, Shooter? 
SHOOTER Yeah, he's going to give you trouble. 
LANCEY I don't want it to be one of those marathon games. Not any more. 
SHOOTER Like the session with The Portugee at Jolly's in Omaha. Remember? 
LANCEY Sure, sure. Longest game I ever played though, I was a kid on my way to the Klondike gold rush. At Soapy Smith's in Skagway. Four nights and three days. 
SHOOTER You win? 
LANCEY Depends how you look at it. When we wound up, the Yukon River had frozen over and you couldn't get through to Dawson City till the following June. Made myself a Hundred and fifty bucks and missed the gold rush. 
SHOOTER You been around a long time. 
LANCEY That is undeniably true. But it doesn't mean I'm ready to retire. How old is this boy of yours? 
SHOOTER Twenty-six, twenty-eight, something like that. 
LANCEY Well, now, makes me feel a whole lot better, knowing that. I was thirty- six when I sliced up Eddie the Dude. This Kid of yours is just going to have to wait a few years. 
INT. CORRIDOR, PLUSH HOTEL - FELIX 
He is standing by an elevator in f.g. keeping watch on a row of room doors including the site of the poker game. FELIX is an impressive physical specimen whose capacity for brutality is masked by a quiet, deferential manner. When he sees a door open, he moves so as to be out of The Shooter's sight as the latter comes toward him. It isn't until The Shooter rounds the corner in f.g. and presses the button for the elevator that Felix makes his presence known. 
FELIX Excuse me, Mr. Shooter, sir, but Mr. Schlaegel asked me to remind you how eager he was to see you. 
The doors of the elevator open. Felix yields precedence to The Shooter and they enter it. The doors close. 
INT. LOBBY, PLUSH HOTEL - AT THE ELEVATORS 
An elevator opens, and The Shooter and Felix come out. 
SHOOTER I ought to call my woman. 
FELIX Yes, of course. They always like to know it if you're going to be late for supper. 
CAMERA MOVES with them as The Shooter leads the way to a row of telephone booths and enters one. 
INT. SHOOTER'S APARTMENT - MELBA AND THE KID 
They are sitting at the table in a game of casino. She plays an ace from her hand, adds a seven from the board, and lays them both on top of a three-card pile. 
MELBA Still building eights. 
He starts out. Melba stares after him, scarcely able to believe what is being done to her. 
MELBA Sure, it means I'm your mother. 
EXT. SCHLAEGEL ESTATE - DAY 
An expensive automobile, with Felix at the wheel and The Shooter next to him in the front seat, approaches the main house of a lavish estate in a St. Louis suburb. It continues along the driveway past the house. 
EXT. AREA AROUND SWIMMING POOL - CLOSE - BILL AND BABY 
In swimming trunks, Bill is spoon-feeding a year-old BABY in a highchair. Looking o.s., he waves in greeting to The Shooter. 
EXT. SCHLAEGEL ESTATE - THE SHOOTER 
He walks from the parked car toward the pool, returning Bill's salutation. 
EXT. AREA AROUND POOL 
SHOOTING from behind The Shooter as he approaches the attractive family group that includes, besides Bill and the baby, a FIVE-YEAR-OLD GIRL who is having her hair brushed after swimming by ROSANNA SCHLAEGEL, her beautiful mother. A family dog completes the picture. Bill continues to feed the baby as he hails The Shooter. 
BILL Shooter -- very generous of you to come on such short notice. Rosanna you know, and I think you've met my daughter June. (indicating baby) No point introducing you to William the Fourth. He has a bad memory for names. 
SHOOTER (greeting them in turn) Mrs. Schlaegel. How are you, June. What's it all about, Bill? 
BILL Little something I'd like to sound you out on. But the least I can do is offer you a drink. 
ROSANNA Like me to fix it, love? 
BILL Wonderful. Why don't you do a batch of your Bloody Marys? If that's okay with you, Shooter? 
SHOOTER Great. Whatever. 
As she goes off, Rosanna cautions June about her hair. 
ROSANNA Just don't let it get wet again. 
As soon as his wife is gone, Bill goes right to the topic he doesn't want to discuss in her presence. 
BILL I've been quite busy on the telephone since I last saw you. There's a lot of interest all over the country in this game with Lancey and The Kid. 
SHOOTER Betting interest? 
BILL Jack Doyle in New York is giving twelve to five on Lancey. Same odds in Reno. I've taken fifty thousand of it so far. 
SHOOTER Fifty thousand! 
BILL I'll probably go for more but I didn't want to rock the odds. 
SHOOTER I knew you liked The Kid's style but why you going in so deep? 
BILL Two reasons. First, I want to see that smug old bastard gutted worse than he gutted me. Second, as long as that's going to happen, I don't see why I shouldn't make some money out of it. 
SHOOTER But how can you be so sure? The Kid could do it, we both know that, but -- 
BILL "Could" isn't good enough for a man who hates to lose money as much as I do. He's going to need help -- from the best man with a pack of cards between Omaha and New Orleans. 
SHOOTER Not a chance, Bill. You ought to know I never ever use what I got with the cards for nothing but tricks and dressing up a game. 
BILL Sure, I know it. That's why you're the man they choose to give them a square deal. That's what makes it so perfect. Nobody'll be looking for it. 
SHOOTER It's out. Out. 
BILL The great thing is they'll be so close, The Kid won't need much. Three or four key hands. 
SHOOTER Understand this, Bill. I'd like for The Kid to win, and I sure as hell don't want to see you lose all that money -- 
BILL If I did, I'd have to collect that twelve grand you owe me. Not myself. My collection agents. You knew poor Wildwood Jones, didn't you? 
SHOOTER OK but I'm paying it off! It's comin' in ain't it? Six grand already. (then as Bill just looks at him) Bill, you got to listen to me --! 
BILL No, I don't. It's quite the other way around. You have some delusion you're a free agent, but you're not. I own you. 
SHOOTER For God's sake --! 
BILL Shut up. I'll cross the twelve off the books and give you ten thousand dollars in cash. And you can tell The Kid if he needs more of a stake, I'll put it up. (looks o.s. and smiles) Marvelous. Here's Rosanna with what you need. 
CAMERA MOVES to include Rosanna carrying a tray with glasses and a pitcher full of Bloody Marys. 
BILL -- for that dry feeling on the roof of your mouth. (TIME LAPSE) 
INT. KID'S APARTMENT - CLOSE SHOT - WINDOW - DAY 
CRAIGIE I mean in God. 
KID That's a tough one. I don't disbelieve in Him, but I couldn't say I believed in Him either. I guess I just never paid Him much mind. Didn't seem important. 
CRAIGIE God not important? 
KID I don't mean what He does isn't important -- if He exists. I mean it's not important to me whether He exists or not. 
CRAIGIE Christian was raised in a Christian home. 
KID Is that so? I didn't know --- (then) I'm not aware of the difference. (pause) I'm not asking permission to marry Christian, you know. 
CRAIGIE I know. 
KID If I was, the only person I'd be asking it from is her. 
CRAIGIE (after a moment) Who is this fella Christian says you're going to play that's so important? 
KID He's the king of the stud poker players. 
CRAIGIE And you're going to play him. 
KID Yes. 
CRAIGIE Are you any good? 
KID I'm this good. The Man has got to play me. 
CRAIGIE What happens if he don't? 
KID Then I'm The Man. 
CRAIGIE That important to you? 
KID I been trying to figure that out ever since I set it up. 
CRAIGIE You playing because of money? 
KID (after a moment) Not really. 
CRAIGIE Christian said you never was much worried about money -- I been worried about money most of my life -- up until I figured out it wasn't so important. 
KID No, it's necessary, but it isn't so important. 
CRAIGIE Well how come you want to play this King fella? 
KID Ambition -- maybe security, like that. 
CRAIGIE Is it aspiration to be the King or just uncertainty about the future? 
KID I ain't looking for security if that's what you mean. 
CRAIGIE Not trying to lock something up tight and nail it down? 
KID That would figure into it. But that isn't all of it. -- It's important to me. 
CRAIGIE Now son which is more important to you, this king business or Christian? 
KID If you got the guts to ask that question, Mr. Craigie, I guess I got the guts to answer it. Christian, if you came right down to it, is not as important as doing what I have to do. 
Craigie has finished piling the manure. He puts away his shovel. 
CRAIGIE Well son, I had to know. 
KID Know what? 
CRAIGIE There never was a man worth a damn, to my mind, who let his woman stand in the way of the thing he had to do. (then) I got to go now -- see what I can do for a sick heifer. Why don't you take Christian, when her Mama lets go of her, and tell her I said you should go to the old spring. It's a good place. 
KID Thanks. I'll tell her. 
Craigie walks away. 
(TIME LAPSE) 
EXT. SPRING - DAY 
It is a small shack against a rocky bluff. CAMERA PANS Christian and The Kid as they come down the path and enter. 
CHRISTIAN It stays warm all winter. 
DISSOLVE: 
CRAIGIE Seems like there should be something else to it -- 
KID There is -- Making the man you're playing against think he's got the best hand -- and making him pay to find out. (TIME LAPSE) 
INT. CRAIGIE KITCHEN - THE KID 
He is lying on a cot in the darkness, next to the big wood- burning stove. Christian enters the SHOT and slips under the covers with him. 
CHRISTIAN I can't stay long. Papa'll be getting up to milk. 
KID I'm the one can't stay. I got to head for that bus. 
CHRISTIAN Why did you come, Kid? 
KID Well, hell, I don't know. I had kind of a rough time after you left. 
CHRISTIAN Rough how? 
KID Tuesday there was a ball game, but then the Cardinals went on the road. I never known time to drag so; I was all torn apart -- 
CHRISTIAN Because of the poker game coming up? 
KID That's how I read it, but I was reading it wrong. It wasn't Lancey or the game that was chewing at my insides -- 
CHRISTIAN What else is there could give you such a bad time? 
KID I finally figured it. I located where the trouble was. It was you. 
She is genuinely surprised at this and at first a bit dismayed. But her more considered reaction is one of pleasure. 
CHRISTIAN Oh, -- 
She kisses him. 
KID When you talk about doing something besides poker if I get to be The Man, you don't mean pass up the chance to make some dough from it for a while? 
CHRISTIAN I sure don't. I told Papa, wherever money comes from, it feels the same when you spend it. 
KID You were going to do some thinking down here. 
CHRISTIAN I done some. 
Then they both react as Craigie can be heard getting up. 
KID I'll be back after the game Christian -- You wait here for me and I'll let you know. 
CHRISTIAN All right Eric -- Good luck Monday. 
She gives him a quick kiss and stands up. 
KID I got that made now. You said it right. My time's come. 
(TIME LAPSE) 
EXT. CROSSROADS COMMUNITY - NIGHT (PRE-DAWN) 
The sun hasn't risen yet as The Kid boards the bus for St. Louis outside the general store. 
EXT. HIGHWAY IN MISSOURI - DAY 
The Kid's bus crossing the endless plain in the afternoon sun. 
EXT. ST. LOUIS BUS TERMINAL - NIGHT 
The clock above the loading platform says it is a little after two in the morning as the bus pulls up, and The Kid, groggy from the long ride, gets out. 
INT. KID'S APARTMENT 
He enters wearily, goes straight into the bedroom and collapses on the bed. After a moment he summons the energy to loosen his shoelaces and kick his shoes off. But that completes his preparations for sleep. 
INT. SHOOTER'S APARTMENT 
The Shooter is awake because he can't sleep, and Melba is awake because she is trying to persuade him to do what she considers prudent. He sighs deeply as she solicitously pours him a cup of coffee. 
SHOOTER Twenty-five years I been building a reputation. 
MELBA Handle this thing right and your reputation will be better than ever. 
INT. LANCEY'S HOTEL ROOM 
Lancey is also awake, confronting a row of medicine bottles. He finishes laying out an assortment of four different pills and capsules, pours himself a glass of hot milk from a carafe, and proceeds to take the pills one at a time, with a sip of milk after each. 
The Kid sees Lancey approaching, and turns to him. 
LANCEY Hello, Kid. Pleasure to know you. 
KID Lancey. I been looking forward a long time. 
LANCEY Sure, sure. You seem to know about everybody. Yeller from New Orleans? 
KID What do you say, Yeller? Still feeling salty with me? 
YELLER Forgiven long since. (to Lancey) We had a little jurisdictional dispute. 
KID I hustled a couple of boys, right in his territory. 
YELLER So I tried to tell him our rules down there. Colored marks are for colored hustlers. 
KID And I tried to tell him how I got no prejudice. When I'm on the edge of my stake, I hustle anybody at all, regardless of race, creed or color. Anybody at all. 
YELLER Including my girl. 
KID Hell, I figured I was doin' you a favor. 
YELLER You did. 
Suddenly they both laugh over a private memory and shake hands, obviously old friends. 
LADY FINGERS (to Lancey) Did you know Old Cottonhead died? 
LANCEY No, I hadn't heard. 
LADY FINGERS Heart give out in a high-low game. 
LANCEY (turning to The Kid) How you feel, Kid? 
KID Great. You? 
LANCEY The best. You think maybe we ought to see if we can stir up some action? 
KID Whatever you say, Lancey. You're the -- (correcting himself) You're our guest in this town. 
LANCEY Well, I'm kind of in the mood to play a little cards. 
KID I think we ought to be able to get a game together in this crowd. 
LANCEY But first you take a look at things -- make sure everything's the way you want it. I already been around. 
KID Thanks. I'll do that. 
He turns toward the center of the room. The Shooter follows him. 
MED. SHOT - AT POKER TABLE - KID AND SHOOTER 
The old, solidly built wooden table has been covered with a white linen cloth on top of a blanket. The cloth is tied down under the rim so that the surface of the table is flat, tight and cushioned by the blanket. The Kid presses his fingers into it to test these factors. 
SHOOTER It's an old table. Everything's pretty old in this hotel. 
KID It's solid, that's what counts. And you got the top fixed perfect. 
Lancey comes into the SHOT behind them. 
LANCEY Light all right for you? 
SHOOTER Two hundred watt bulb. 
KID Fine, excellent. Okay with you? 
LANCEY Sure, sure. Shooter's set us up just great. 
KID Sure has. 
SHOOTER Thank you, gents. Tried to do the best I could. (looks from one to the other) Cards? 
LANCEY Why not? 
KID Good a time as any. 
SHOOTER (calling) Hoban! Okay! (to Kid and Lancey) You both know Joe Hoban. He's a draw poker man, but clean and straight as they come. 
Hoban comes into the SHOT with a dispatch case, which he sets on the table. He unlocks it with a key and turns it upside down. Thirty sealed decks of cards spill on the table. 
HOBAN They come from the St. Louis Bridge Club, but they're poker size cards. They been bonded by the club steward and I seen him take them out of the safe. Shooter, Lady Fingers and me pick them up and come straight here with them. 
The Kid has taken his roll from his pocket and is counting it out rapidly. The other players watch, interested to see how much he is putting out. After counting out one stack of thirty hundreds, he distributes the rest in stacks of twenties, tens and fives, folding each bill over once as protection against picking up more than one at a time. 
SHOOTER Gentlemen, this is a game of five- card stud poker. There is no limit. A dead man has one half hour to raise his roll outside and get back in the game. 
The Kid has completed his count. 
REVERSE ANGLE - FEATURING LANCEY 
He takes the money from his satchel. 
LANCEY Five grand? Nice, tidy sum. I'll put out the same. 
CAMERA PANS to Yeller. 
YELLER I swear I don't know what I'm doing sitting down with you titans, but maybe it's worth putting up five thousand for the educational value. 
CAMERA PANS to Pig as he brings out a roll and drops it casually in front of him. 
PIG I'll play with what I have in my pocket till I have to send out for more. Twenty-seven, twenty-eight hundred, I don't know. 
CAMERA PANS past The Kid to Sokal, who is counting out bills from an impressive roll. 
SOKAL Five G's, I'm with it. Don't mean I'm goin' blow it all, though. 
CAMERA PANS to The Shooter, who is counting out a smaller stake than anyone. 
SHOOTER Last and certainly least -- 
He puts his money out without counting it, takes a deck of cards, rips the cellophane off it, takes the jokers and tosses them offhandedly to one side, not seeming to take aim. 
FEATURING THE JOKERS 
Heads turn as the cards sail through the air in unison, landing inside The Shooter's familiar hat, which is resting crown down on the mantelpiece. The spectators gape at the display of dexterity. 
FEATURING THE SHOOTER 
He begins to shuffle and all eyes are upon him, not from suspicion but from pure admiration. He is in peak form, shuffling six times, once for each player and then slapping the cards down before Lancey, who is to the right of him, with an empty chair in between. 
CLOSE - LANCEY 
He waives his privilege of cutting with a barely perceptible nod. 
THE POKER TABLE 
The Shooter acknowledges the compliment with the same sort of gesture. Then he begins to deal in his magnificently precise way, pitching each card so that it comes to a stop six inches in front of the player's money and in clear view of everyone at the table. 
CLOSE SHOT - SHOOTER'S HANDS 
With Sokal in b.g. It is notable that as The Shooter completes dealing hole cards and switches to the first up card, there is no visible difference in the motion of his hands. He calls the cards as he deals them. 
SHOOTER Seven, nine, trey, nine, ace, and The Shooter guns up a ten. Ace bets. 
LANCEY Ten dollars. 
SHOOTER Dealer folds. 
SOKAL Call the sawbuck. 
CLOSE SHOT - FROM BEHIND KID 
He looks at his hole card: an ace. 
KID I'm in. 
PIG'S VOICE Call. 
YELLER'S VOICE Call. 
THE POKER TABLE 
The Shooter deals again. 
SHOOTER King to the seven, pair of nines, deuce to the trey, queen-nine, ace- eight. 
KID Nines bet twenty bucks. 
Each other player folds in turn. The Shooter pulls in the cards, and The Kid pulls in the seventy dollars. The Shooter shuffles and deals again. 
SHOOTER Queen, ten, king, four, ace again, and a king for The Shooter. 
LANCEY Ace bets ten dollars 
THE POKER TABLE 
Shooter deals another round: an eight of clubs to Sokal, a second seven to Pig, a ten to Lancey. 
SHOOTER Possible straight flush, pair of sevens. Pair of jacks are still high. 
LANCEY Check to the sevens. 
SOKAL Likewise. 
PIG (trying to be casual) Bet the size of the pot. Nine hundred and eighty dollars. 
LANCEY In for nine eighty. 
SOKAL I'll play. 
TWO SHOT - HOBAN AND BILL 
BILL What's with Lancey? I thought he'd raise with three jacks or drop with two pair. 
HOBAN He probably thinks Pig's faking the queens. Anyhow, Doc's liable take them both with a straight or a flush. 
THE POKER TABLE 
There is a good deal of suspense hanging on each card as The Shooter deals. Sokal gets a five of diamonds, and his disappointment is too great to conceal. 
SHOOTER Busted, no flush, no straight. Pair of sevens with a queen gets a nine. To the pair of jacks, a trey. 
PIG (counting his money, trying to be calm) Pair of sevens will bet whatever I got here. Twenty-four hundred bucks. 
LANCEY I'll call your twenty-four hundred -- 
CLOSE SHOT - THE KID 
He watches Lancey, puzzled; this isn't what he had expected. 
LANCEY'S VOICE (O.S.) -- and raise you whatever I have left. 
The Kid relaxes; this is more the way he figured it. 
THE POKER TABLE 
Lancey is completely calm. Pig is shattered, his whole world suddenly blown apart. 
LANCEY Comes to fourteen hundred fifty dollars, Pig. Don't imagine you'll have any problem promoting that much in half an hour -- plus whatever you care to raise me. 
All eyes are on Pig, which doesn't make it any easier for him. He just sits there, his hands shaking. 
SHOOTER Fourteen fifty to the queens. You want to take your half hour, Pig? 
There is another long moment before Pig flips over his up cards. 
PIG No, I'm out. Out of the game. 
He looks at Lancey with malevolence. Lancey turns over his up cards and tosses them in front of The Shooter. Pig suddenly lunges toward the cards, wanting a look at Lancey's hole card, but Lancey is too quick for him and pushes the cards into the pack The Shooter is assembling. 
SHOOTER (to Pig) You Tap City? 
Pig is suffering, weighing the advantages and disadvantages of making the dread admission. Finally he nods. The Shooter takes a ten dollar bill from his own stake, and the other four remaining players each add a ten. The Shooter pushes the money toward Pig. 
PIG I got a woman. 
SHOOTER I thought you and Hilda were quits. 
PIG We're back. 
The other players look at The Shooter to see if he is going to accept this statement at face value. He nods, that he does, and each man contributes another ten. The Shooter passes the second fifty to Pig. 
SHOOTER See you around, Pig. 
PLAYERS (ad lib) So long, Pig -- See you -- 'Night. 
PIG (getting up) So long. 
CAMERA FOLLOWS him to the door. The spectators make room for him, no one saying anything. At the door, Pig turns back for his valedictory gesture. 
PIG Good luck -- Kid. 
He goes out. 
CLOSE SHOT - LANCEY 
LANCEY Your age, you don't need a regular vacation every year. But me, I have to forget the grind for a couple of weeks. I go to this place near Delray Beach, and the whole time I don't play anything but bridge. 
KID That's interesting. I could go for bridge if there was a way to do it without partners. 
LANCEY I'm not keeping you from your woman, am I? 
KID (after a slight hesitation) No. We're -- she's gone away for a while. We're not sure we're looking for the same thing. 
LANCEY I'm sorry to hear that. 
KID I was hoping Christian would run with me and wouldn't try to make a big deal out of it. 
LANCEY But she tried? 
KID Yeah, and now I don't know. I don't figure a man can change his way because the way I see it a man's lucky he's got something going for him that he can hold on to. A man can't change his way for a woman. 
LANCEY Nooo, a man can't do that. 
KID I been wondering if it isn't maybe a better idea not to look for a fixed thing. Just tie in to something nice when you're away from the action, and enjoy it, and let it wear itself out. 
LANCEY (after a long moment) That's very interesting you should say that. You're pretty young to have figured things out already. 
KID Well she didn't understand how it was with me and --- 
LANCEY (warmly) Between us? 
KID There ain't but a few people, I guess who would understand -- 
LANCEY (as The Kid doesn't finish) Kid, you're the best stud man I've seen in 35 years of action. You know that? 
KID Well -- thank you. 
LANCEY And when it comes to broads, which is getting to be an academic problem -- I can look back now to the two or three I ever considered I might want to spend the rest of my life with, and you know what? I like it... looking back on them, that is -- (then) I always got a lot of companionship out of a good book. 
KID It's very educational, hearing what it's like for a man your age. 
LANCEY Glad to be of help. And it's good we had this little talk so I know we can be friends regardless what happens. 
KID That sounds good to me. I didn't think you was coming in at me like a grudge match. 
LANCEY No room for any kind of emotion in a fair game of stud. I learned that a long time ago. 
LADY FINGERS' VOICE (O.S.) Ready for some action, gentlemen. 
They look at each other and then exit. 
ANGLE INCLUDING THE POKER TABLE 
Lady Fingers is sitting in Shooter's place, rippling and shuffling the cards. Yeller, Sokal, and The Shooter are all either sitting at the table or standing near it. Lancey, followed by The Kid, returns to the table. 
LADY FINGERS It's a whole New Deal. Good hands all around. Prosperity for everybody. 
LANCEY You're still good, Fingers. 
LADY FINGERS Getting crippled up, Lancey. Not many of the old gang left. You heard Whistling Sam was gone? 
LANCEY No, I didn't hear. 
LADY FINGERS I was the one got called to the morgue to identify him. I don't suppose you seen anybody been run over by a twelve- ton bulldozer. 
LANCEY No, can't say that I have. 
LADY FINGERS Don't go out of your way. 
(TIME LAPSE) 
INT. POKER SUITE - TOWARD WINDOWS 
Morning sunlight is streaming in. 
THE POKER TABLE 
The Kid, facing the sun, wears his eyeshade. The Shooter has resumed the deal and now hands out last cards to Sokal, The Kid and himself. 
SHOOTER Bet the pot. Four hundred and twenty dollars. 
SOKAL Fold. 
KID It's yours. 
SHOOTER Thanks, gents. Makes me exactly even. This kind of a game, that's a smart place to quit. (takes his money off the table) Just do the dealing, if that's all right with everybody. 
LANCEY Two thousand dollars. 
The Kid lifts his hole card and we see it is a ten. 
KID Call two thousand. 
He turns to watch The Shooter. 
FEATURING THE SHOOTER'S HANDS - KID'S P.O.V. 
Again there is no indication of improper dealing as The Shooter gives Lancey an odd card and The Kid a ten, completing his full house. 
LANCEY'S VOICE (O.S.) Two thousand more. 
THE POKER TABLE 
KID Take it. I can't beat three sevens. (then as The Shooter's eyes flicker with surprise) I'd like a break to get some food and sleep -- I'm winners so it isn't up to me to say it but I'm saying it anyway. 
He exits. After a moment The Shooter follows. Lancey watches them go then rises, apparently still fresh and strong. Lady Fingers joins him. 
LANCEY (pleasantly) My dear, that young man is a stud poker-playing son-of-a-bitch. 
LADY FINGERS Gettin' to you, Lancey? 
Lancey looks at her a moment, then smiles. 
LANCEY (softly) Not yet he isn't. 
He moves through the crowd, then exits. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BEDROOM - BILL'S SUITE - THE KID & SHOOTER 
They are alone in the room. Shooter is uncomfortable and would like to be elsewhere but The Kid is standing in front of the closed door. 
THE KID Now, just what the hell are you trying to pull? 
SHOOTER (trying to bluff it) Nothing -- what are you talking about? 
The Kid grabs him and slams him against the wall. 
THE KID You, Shooter Man -- you been feeding me cards for an hour. 
SHOOTER (angry and ashamed) The hell I was. (he waits a brief moment then eases away from The Kid) Christ, Kid, even if I was you couldn't spot it -- I'm too good a mechanic for anybody to spot it. 
THE KID (grabbing him and slamming him against the wall again) But I was looking for it, Shooter -- four times you give me the cards I need. 
SHOOTER (a little shrill) You seen it before often enough. One player draws four good ones. 
THE KID Never in a game when I been told ahead the dealer has a stake in my coming out on top. 
SHOOTER (slumping) My woman told you. 
THE KID She told me enough to make me start thinking. 
SHOOTER (almost pleading) Why should you bitch if I give you a little help? 
THE KID Why, you dumb bastard? -- You have to ask me why. (ready to hit him) I could break you apart for what you've done. 
SHOOTER (backing off) Kid, you got to understand. It wasn't my idea -- 
THE KID Well who the hell's was it then -- Schlaegel? -- 
SHOOTER He's got the squeeze on me Kid and he's meaner than hell. He'll cut me up if I don't come through. (then) You think I wanted to deal a phony game? You think it don't mean something to me? I never done a crooked thing before in my life. 
THE KID My ass bleeds for you -- Now you get straight on this. No fix. You come along straight or I blow it wide open. 
SHOOTER He's liable to kill me. 
THE KID He ain't goin' to do nothin' to you except pay off because I'm goin' to win. 
SHOOTER It is a hell of a chance to take. 
THE KID You got no choice. 
SHOOTER He ain't goin' to like it. 
THE KID (almost yelling at him) He ain't goin' to know. (then quietly) Shooter, I'm goin' to win this one -- win it my way -- and you ride with me or you're out, finished. 
SHOOTER I ride with you. 
There is a KNOCK on the door. 
MELBA Rolls and coffee for the hard-headed hero. 
CAMERA PANS to take in the view of the bedroom as she crosses it to the door, talking as she goes. 
MELBA Believe me Kid there is too much at stake for us to rely on your doing it on your own. 
She has paused at the door to finish her sentence. Now she unlocks and opens it -- to Christian. Melba is so taken aback she can't do anything but stand there holding the door open. The Kid, in the bathroom in f.g., is similarly frozen in his tracks. After a moment Christian advances into the room. 
REVERSE ANGLE - CHRISTIAN IN F.G. 
The scene as it looks to Christian is circumstantially incriminating. CAMERA MOVES with her gaze from The Kid to the one mussed bed, to Melba. The faces and the silence of the two people are even more incriminating than the circumstances. 
CHRISTIAN Hello, Kid. Hello, Melba. (a pause) You said wait home 'til you let me know. 
THE KID Yeah, that's what I said. We took a break in the game to catch some sleep. Shooter sent his woman up here to wake me up. 
MELBA Yeah, I woke him up. 
CHRISTIAN It don't take much. 
MELBA No, I didn't find it any trouble. (awkwardly) Well, you children don't need me, that's for sure. See you downstairs. (to Christian) You, too, honey, right? 
CHRISTIAN I'll be around if The Kid wants me. 
THE KID See you, Melba. Thanks. 
MELBA Por nada, as they say. It was nothing. 
She walks past CAMERA and a moment later comes the SOUND of the door closing behind her. The Kid, who has moved into the bedroom, crosses to his clothes on a chair, and picks up his undershorts and trousers. He returns to the bathroom, using the door for partial concealment as he removes his towel and puts on his shorts and trousers. 
THE KID You been to the place? 
CHRISTIAN No, I've got my bag downstairs. Maybe I'll take it over later on tonight. 
THE KID How's your Mama and Papa? 
CHRISTIAN Fine. How's the game going? 
The Kid fastens his trousers and returns to the basin to give his face a last few strokes with the razor and wash off the soap. 
THE KID It's come to be just me and Lancey. 
He comes back into the bedroom to finish dressing. As his movement brings him fairly close to Christian, he realizes he hasn't kissed her, and repairs the omission before putting his shirt on. 
CHRISTIAN (after the kiss) I was wondering. 
THE KID I got my mind on the cards. 
CHRISTIAN I know. And I don't want to rattle you. We got plenty to talk about, but it can all wait. Except I want to say this. I came back because I figured if it was going to work with us, it's silly me sitting home with Mama while you're playing your big game. I mean if I'm any use to you at all, this is when it's most important. 
To The Kid preoccupied by the game and the fix, feeling both affection and guilt. The idea that she can be any use to him against Lancey is one he can't grasp. 
THE KID I'm glad you came, Christian. You got as much right here as anybody. (then) More right, I should have said. 
CHRISTIAN Should you? 
THE KID Hell, yes. The change I come out with when I win this one, you're going to be the one to spend it. 
He moves toward the door. 
CHRISTIAN Eric -- 
THE KID (turning back) Look, I said I'm glad you came -- and that's all until I wrap this up -- I'm a poker player, remember? 
She looks at him. After a moment he exits. She follows. 
CUT TO: 
THE POKER TABLE 
It is evening. Lady Fingers deals a first up card to the two players. The Kid gets an eight, Lancey a jack. 
THE KID The eight'll try two bills. 
LANCEY (turning his card) No stay. 
Lady Fingers scoops up the cards, shuffles them into the rest of the deck, submits it to Lancey for his cut, and deals them another two cards apiece -- all in the space of seconds. The Kid gets a queen, Lancey a nine. 
THE KID Two hundred. 
THE KID If you think so. (to Christian) Sorry. 
CHRISTIAN What's wrong? 
THE KID Nothing, Nothing you have to worry about. I'll see you later. 
He heads for the door. Christian looks after him. 
THE KID Get something to eat. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BILL'S SUITE 
Bill and The Kid are sitting at a room-service table. Bill nibbles at some cheese and crackers while The Kid tackles a large steak. Felix, the chauffeur, stands in attendance on them. 
BILL I thought it would be better if you and I sat down together to see if we couldn't work out our differences. Felix! 
He motions to Felix, indicating a wine bottle on the table. Felix steps over and refills The Kid's glass. 
THE KID What I told The Shooter goes. 
BILL Are you saying no before we've even discussed it? Am I to feel all my arguments will be wasted? 
The Kid just looks at him -- then returns to his meal. 
BILL I'll skip to the final argument. (then) More salad, perhaps? 
He makes a peremptory gesture to Felix, who springs forward to offer the salad bowl to The Kid. 
BILL The Shooter will be back dealing when you start again. He will give you an occasional helpful card. 
THE KID That's an argument? 
BILL That's a fact. I'm coming to the argument. 
THE KID I'll give you a fact. I won't let it happen. 
BILL Is that knife sharp enough? Felix. 
Felix jumps into action again. He moves to The Kid's side, reaches into a breast pocket and takes out a switch blade, which he clocks open an inch or two from The Kid's neck. It is an extremely ugly-looking and menacing weapon. 
BILL See if it cuts better with that. 
Felix hands the knife to The Kid, who tries it on his steak. 
BILL Sharp? 
THE KID Very. But it don't cut any ice with me. 
He jams the knife in the table and snaps off the blade. 
THE KID (rising) Not this time. He exits. 
INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR 
As The Kid exits Christian is waiting for him. He moves down the corridor, preoccupied. She follows. 
THE KID Did you eat? 
CHRISTIAN No. 
THE KID (stops, looks at her irritated) Why not, for Chris sakes? 
CHRISTIAN Eric -- 
THE KID (moving away) You should eat something. 
CHRISTIAN (loudly, stopping) I've got to talk to you. 
He stops, looks at her. 
THE KID Talk. 
CHRISTIAN (fumbling) It's -- about us. What's going to happen? 
THE KID (interrupting) What's going to happen? What's going to happen for Chris sake is I'm going to win the game. (then more softly) You go back to the apartment, honey, this might take two more days. 
CHRISTIAN (flatly) If I go, I'm not going back to the apartment. If I go -- I'm just going. 
THE KID (after a long moment) Well, that's up to you, Christian. 
HOBAN AND YELLER 
HOBAN (excitement in his voice) The Kid is pushing it and making it stick. 
CAMERA MOVES to the other four spectators as they react to The Kid's successful streak. 
SHOOTER (in a low voice) He's getting to him. 
And it looks that way. Lancey appears old and unsure. The Kid sharp and cold. A young barracuda moving in for the kill. 
CAMERA MOVES in close to Christian as she tries to catch The Kid's eye. Thinking she has it, she smiles her encouragement. 
FEATURING THE KID 
He looks right at her and doesn't seem to see her. Lady Fingers has dealt the first up cards of a new hand, and Lancey is high. 
LANCEY Two hundred. 
THE KID And up five. 
LANCEY Fold. 
CLOSE - CHRISTIAN 
Amid the growing excitement and tension she is a complete outsider. 
(TIME LAPSE) 
THE POKER TABLE 
The Kid shows two jacks and two odd cards; Lancey a pair of aces and two odd cards. Lancey puts about eight hundred dollars into the pot. 
LANCEY Betting the jack isn't there, Kid. 
The Kid exposes his hidden jack. 
SHOOTER, BILL AND MELBA 
Greed and an almost vicious satisfaction marks their faces as they watch Lancey falter. The Shooter whispers to Bill just loud enough for the girl to hear. 
SHOOTER We're in -- I think he's got him. 
Christian looks at them, then at The Kid. Hesitates a moment then suddenly gets to her feet and starts for the door. Only Melba notices her, and even she doesn't have time to question her. CAMERA FOLLOWS Christian to the suite entrance, where she picks up her bag then turns to look back at the table. 
FEATURING THE KID 
The place where Christian was sitting is right in his line of vision but he hasn't observed her departure. 
CLOSE SHOT - CHRISTIAN 
She goes on out the door. 
INT. POKER SUITE - ANGLE INCLUDING WINDOW 
The second dawn of the contest is near at hand. The room, continuously lived in for so long by so many people, is a shambles of dirty glasses and plates, empty bottles, full wastebaskets and ash trays, and frayed people. At the poker table, Lady Fingers is dealing a new hand. 
LADY FINGERS A jack and a ten. Jack bets. 
CAMERA MOVES in close enough for us to see the cards. Lancey has the jack of hearts, The Kid the ten of clubs. 
LANCEY Jack is willing to wager two hundred dollars. 
The Kid takes his first look at his hole card. 
CLOSE SHOT - SHOWING FACE OF HOLE CARD 
It is the queen of hearts. 
THE KID And up five hundred. 
Lancey looks at him a long moment. His face pale and shaken. The Kid is beating him. Pushing -- buying -- always pressing and Lancey knows he is losing one hand at a time, not badly but consistently and inevitably. His age and fatigue are a strong handicap for the long pull. Then his face settles as if he had come to a decision. He smiles lightly summoning some last reserve of strength, almost as if he knows this will be the last hand, win or lose. 
LANCEY Call your five hundred and five hundred more. 
THE KID (after a brief hesitation) Call. 
HOBAN AND YELLER 
HOBAN Fifty to one hundred says Lancey paired his jacks. 
YELLER Mark it. 
Bill hisses softly into The Shooter's ear. 
BILL Kid has him, doesn't he? 
But The Shooter, like the Kid, is white-faced and frozen by the raise. 
THE REMAINING SPECTATORS 
They crowd in close to the table: Hoban, Yeller, Bill, The Shooter, and Melba. 
KID (after a long moment) I'm taking my half hour to raise my stake. 
LADY FINGERS I declare a thirty-minute break. Leave your cards and money on the table. The game will start again at five forty-five. 
LANCEY I'll take your marker, Kid. 
KID I can raise it. 
LANCEY I know you can. 
KID Long as you know. (he raps the table) -- Call. 
LANCEY (turns up a heart seven) Straight flush to the jack -- That's $6700 you owe me, Kid. 
CLOSE SHOT - THE KID 
There is nothing to be gained from a poker face now, and he reacts with a stunned expression in which all the accumulated strain and fatigue is beginning to show. CAMERA MOVES among the spectators: Hoban and Yeller, who are sorry for The Kid and admiring of Lancey; Bill, who is all the more angry at his defeat because his hopes were up; The Shooter, who is a very unhappy man; and Melba, whose anger at the Kid is balanced by her fear of Schlaegel and what will happen to The Shooter and possibly to her. 
THE POKER TABLE 
Lancey pulls in the money while The Kid stares at him dumbly. Lady Fingers riffles the cards. 
LANCEY New deck. 
LADY FINGERS Are you playing, Kid? You got a half an hour to raise your stake. 
KID No -- I'm through. 
LADY FINGERS (formally) Gentlemen, this game is over. 
LANCEY You're one hell of a poker player, Kid. That was a rough hand. 
KID Thanks. 
LANCEY What's the tab for the whole show? 
As he settles up, the CAMERA FOLLOWS The Kid to his brandy bottle. As he pours himself a slug, Melba and Shooter join him. 
CLOSER ANGLE 
MELBA You had to do it, didn't you -- you had to go for it your own way. (then, as The Kid doesn't answer) Well, sonny, I hope you learned something. I know we sure as hell did. 
KID Where's Christian? 
MELBA She's gone. She's got too much sense to stick with a two bit loser. 
SHOOTER Shut up. (then:) Sorry, Kid. 
KID Yeah. (then:) I should have known he had it, Shooter Man. I walked into it. 
SHOOTER (trying to grin as Schlaegel and Felix move up) Well, Kid, it's like I said -- you just wasn't ready. 
BILL (to The Shooter) Are you ready, Shooter Man? We're having a meeting and I suggest you join us. 
Shooter looks at him a moment and nods, and taking Melba by the arm, moves toward the door followed by Felix. 
MELBA Why me -- I'm not part of this. 
SHOOTER (jerking her forward) Oh, yes you are -- you and your big mouth -- you're part of it all right. 
SCHLAEGEL He's right, my dear. Now run along with Felix. We're going to have a long talk about that big mouth of yours. 
Melba starts to protest, but Felix jerks her out the door. Shooter hesitates, then follows. 
DIFFERENT ANGLE 
Schlaegel turns to The Kid. 
SCHLAEGEL I was wrong. I figured you for brains. But you're a loser, Kid. You had a chance to play with grownups and you ran. (then, as Lancey and Lady Fingers approach) They weren't playing your game. They were playing mine. Think about that while you find a place to hide. But hide good, Kid -- because I got a message for you and I'm going to see it delivered. 
The Kid looks at him, looks at Lancey and Lady Fingers, wondering about what Schlaegel has said, angry about it. 
