Shot of early tintype stills of Thomas Foster Kane and his wife, Mary, on their wedding day.  A similar picture of Mary Kane some four or five years later with her little boy, Charles Foster Kane. 
NARRATOR Fifty-seven years later, before a Congressional Investigation, Walter P.  Thatcher, grand old man of Wall Street, for years chief target of Kane papers' attack on "trusts," recalls a journey he made as a youth... 
Shot of Capitol, in Washington D.C. 
Shot of Congressional Investigating Committee (reproduction of existing J.P. Morgan newsreel).  This runs silent under narration.  Walter P. Thatcher is on the stand.  He is flanked by his son, Walter P. Thatcher Jr., and other partners.  He is being questioned by some Merry Andrew congressmen.  At this moment, a baby alligator has just been placed in his lap, causing considerable confusion and embarrassment. 
Newsreel close-up of Thatcher, the soundtrack of which now fades in. 
THATCHER ...  because of that trivial incident... 
INVESTIGATOR It is a fact, however, is it not, that in 1870, you did go to Colorado? 
THATCHER I did. 
INVESTIGATOR In connection with the Kane affairs? 
THATCHER Yes.  My firm had been appointed trustees by Mrs. Kane for the fortune, which she had recently acquired.  It was her wish that I should take charge of this boy, Charles Foster Kane. 
NARRATOR That same month in Union Square - 
INVESTIGATOR Is it not a fact that on that occasion, the boy personally attacked you after striking you in the stomach with a sled? 
Loud laughter and confusion. 
THATCHER Mr. Chairman, I will read to this committee a prepared statement I have brought with me - and I will then refuse to answer any further questions.  Mr.  Johnson, please! 
A young assistant hands him a sheet of paper from a briefcase. 
THATCHER (reading it) "With full awareness of the meaning of my words and the responsibility of what I am about to say, it is my considered belief that Mr. Charles Foster Kane, in every essence of his social beliefs and by the dangerous manner in which he has persistently attacked the American traditions of private property, initiative and opportunity for advancement, is - in fact - nothing more or less than a Communist." 
Newsreel of Union Square meeting, section of crowd carrying banners urging the boycott of Kane papers.  A speaker is on the platform above the crowd. 
SPEAKER (fading in on soundtrack) - till the words "Charles Foster Kane" are a menace to every working man in this land.  He is today what he has always been and always will be - A FASCIST! 
NARRATOR And yet another opinion - Kane's own. 
Silent newsreel on a windy platform, flag-draped, in front of the magnificent Enquirer building.  On platform, in full ceremonial dress, is Charles Foster Kane.  He orates silently. 
TITLE: 
"I AM, HAVE BEEN, AND WILL BE ONLY ONE THING - AN AMERICAN." CHARLES FOSTER KANE. 
Same locale, Kane shaking hands out of frame. 
Another newsreel shot, much later, very brief, showing Kane, older and much fatter, very tired-looking, seated with his second wife in a nightclub.  He looks lonely and unhappy in the midst of the gaiety. 
NARRATOR Twice married, twice divorced - first to a president's niece, Emily Norton - today, by her second marriage, chatelaine of the oldest of England's stately homes.  Sixteen years after that - two weeks after his divorce from Emily Norton - Kane married Susan Alexander, singer, at the Town Hall in Trenton, New Jersey. 
TITLE: 
FEW PRIVATE LIVES WERE MORE PUBLIC. 
Period still of Emily Norton (1900). 
DISSOLVE: 
Reconstructed silent newsreel.  Kane, Susan, and Bernstein emerging from side doorway of City Hall into a ring of press photographers, reporters, etc.  Kane looks startled, recoils for an instance, then charges down upon the photographers, laying about him with his stick, smashing whatever he can hit. 
NARRATOR For wife two, one-time opera singing Susan Alexander, Kane built Chicago's Municipal Opera House. Cost: three million dollars. Conceived for Susan Alexander Kane, half-finished before she divorced him, the still unfinished Xanadu. Cost: no man can say. 
Still of architect's sketch with typically glorified "rendering" of the Chicago Municipal Opera House. 
DISSOLVE: 
A glamorous shot of the almost-finished Xanadu, a magnificent fairy-tale estate built on a mountain. (1920) 
Then shots of its preparation. (1917) 
Shots of truck after truck, train after train, flashing by with tremendous noise. 
Shots of vast dredges, steamshovels. 
Shot of ship standing offshore unloading its lighters. 
In quick succession, shots follow each other, some reconstructed, some in miniature, some real shots (maybe from the dam projects) of building, digging, pouring concrete, etc. 
NARRATOR One hundred thousand trees, twenty thousand tons of marble, are the ingredients of Xanadu's mountain. Xanadu's livestock: the fowl of the air, the fish of the sea, the beast of the field and jungle - two of each; the biggest private zoo since Noah.  Contents of Kane's palace: paintings, pictures, statues, the very stones of many another palace, shipped to Florida from every corner of the earth, from other Kane houses, warehouses, where they mouldered for years. Enough for ten museums - the loot of the world. 
More shots as before, only this time we see (in miniature) a large mountain - at different periods in its development - rising out of the sands. 
Shots of elephants, apes, zebras, etc. being herded, unloaded, shipped, etc. in various ways. 
Shots of packing cases being unloaded from ships, from trains, from trucks, with various kinds of lettering on them (Italian, Arabian, Chinese, etc.) but all consigned to Charles Foster Kane, Xanadu, Florida. 
A reconstructed still of Xanadu - the main terrace.  A group of persons in clothes of the period of 1917.  In their midst, clearly recognizable, are Kane and Susan. 
NARRATOR Kane urged his country's entry into one war, opposed participation in another.  Swung the election to one American President at least, was called another's assassin. Thus, Kane's papers might never have survived - had not the President. 
TITLE: 
FROM XANADU, FOR THE PAST TWENTY-FIVE YEARS, ALL KANE ENTERPRISES HAVE BEEN DIRECTED, MANY OF THE NATIONS DESTINIES SHAPED. 
Shots of various authentically worded headlines of American papers since 1895. 
SOMEBODY'S VOICE Motivation - 
RAWLSTON That's it - motivation.  What made Kane what he was?  And, for that matter, what was he?  What we've just seen are the outlines of a career - what's behind the career? What's the man?  Was he good or bad?  Strong or foolish?  Tragic or silly?  Why did he do all those things?  What was he after? (then, appreciating his point) Maybe he told us on his death bed. 
THOMPSON Yes, and maybe he didn't. 
RAWLSTON Ask the question anyway, Thompson! Build the picture around the question, even if you can't answer it. 
THOMPSON I know, but - 
RAWLSTON (riding over him like any other producer) All we saw on that screen was a big American - 
A VOICE One of the biggest. 
RAWLSTON (without pausing for this) But how is he different from Ford? Or Hearst for that matter?  Or Rockefeller - or John Doe? 
A VOICE I know people worked for Kane will tell you - not only in the newspaper business - look how he raised salaries.  You don't want to forget - 
ANOTHER VOICE You take his labor record alone, they ought to hang him up like a dog. 
RAWLSTON I tell you, Thompson - a man's dying words - 
SOMEBODY'S VOICE What were they? 
Silence. 
SOMEBODY'S VOICE (hesitant) Yes, Mr. Rawlston, what were Kane's dying words? 
RAWLSTON (with disgust) Rosebud! 
A little ripple of laughter at this, which is promptly silenced by Rawlston. 
RAWLSTON That's right. 
A VOICE Tough guy, huh? (derisively) Dies calling for Rosebud! 
RAWLSTON Here's a man who might have been President.  He's been loved and hated and talked about as much as any man in our time - but when he comes to die, he's got something on his mind called "Rosebud." What does that mean? 
ANOTHER VOICE A racehorse he bet on once, probably, that didn't come in - Rosebud! 
RAWLSTON All right.  But what was the race? 
There is a short silence. 
RAWLSTON Thompson! 
THOMPSON Yes, sir. 
RAWLSTON Hold this thing up for a week. Two weeks if you have to... 
THOMPSON (feebly) But don't you think if we release it now - he's only been dead four days it might be better than if - 
RAWLSTON (decisively) Nothing is ever better than finding out what makes people tick.  Go after the people that knew Kane well.  That manager of his - the little guy, Bernstein, those two wives, all the people who knew him, had worked for him, who loved him, who hated his guts - (pauses) I don't mean go through the City Directory, of course - 
The Third Man gives a hearty "yes-man" laugh. 
THOMPSON I'll get to it right away, Mr. Rawlston. 
RAWLSTON (rising) Good! 
The camera from behind him, outlines his back against Kane's picture on the screen. 
RAWLSTON'S VOICE It'll probably turn out to be a very simple thing... 
FADE OUT: 
NOTE:  Now begins the story proper - the seach by Thompson for the facts about Kane - his researches ... his interviews with the people who knew Kane. 
It is important to remember always that only at the very end of the story is Thompson himself a personality.  Until then, throughout the picture, we photograph only Thompson's back, shoulders, or his shadow - sometimes we only record his voice. He is not until the final scene a "character".  He is the personification of the search for the truth about Charles Foster Kane.  He is the investigator. 
FADE IN: 
EXT. CHEAP CABARET - "EL RANCHO" - ATLANTIC CITY - NIGHT - 1940 (MINIATURE) - RAIN 
The first image to register is a sign: 
"EL RANCHO" 
FLOOR SHOW 
SUSAN ALEXANDER KANE 
TWICE NIGHTLY 
These words, spelled out in neon, glow out of the darkness at the end of the fade out.  Then there is lightning which reveals a squalid roof-top on which the sign stands.  Thunder again, and faintly the sound of music from within.  A light glows from a skylight.  The camera moves to this and closes in. Through the splashes of rain, we see through the skylight down into the interior of the cabaret.  Directly below us at a table sits the lone figure of a woman, drinking by herself. 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. "EL RANCO" CABARET - NIGHT - 
Medium shot of the same woman as before, finishing the drink she started to take above.  It is Susie.  The music, of course, is now very loud.  Thompson, his back to the camera, moves into the picture in the close foreground.  A Captain appears behind Susie, speaking across her to Thompson. 
THE CAPTAIN (a Greek) This is Mr. Thompson, Miss Alexander. 
Susan looks up into Thompson's face.  She is fifty, trying to look much younger, cheaply blonded, in a cheap, enormously generous evening dress.  Blinking up into Thompson's face, she throws a crink into ther mouth.  Her eyes, which she thinks is keeping commandingly on his, are bleared and watery. 
Manuscript, neatly and precisely written: 
"CHARLES FOSTER KANE 
WHEN THESE LINES APPEAR IN PRINT, FIFTY YEARS AFTER MY DEATH, I AM CONFIDENT THAT THE WHOLE WORLD WILL AGREE WITH MY OPINION OF CHARLES FOSTER KANE, ASSUMING THAT HE IS NOT THEN COMPLETELY FORGOTTEN, WHICH I REGARD AS EXTREMELY LIKELY.  A GOOD DEAL OF NONSENSE HAS APPEARED ABOUT MY FIRST MEETING WITH KANE, WHEN HE WAS SIX YEARS OLD...  THE FACTS ARE SIMPLE.  IN THE WINTER OF 1870..." 
The camera has not held on the entire page.  It has been following the words with the same action that the eye does the reading.  On the last words, the white page of the paper 
DISSOLVES INTO: 
EXT. MRS. KANE'S BOARDINGHOUSE - DAY - 
The white of a great field of snow, seen from the angle of a parlor window. 
In the same position of the last word in above Insert, appears the tiny figure of Charles Foster Kane, aged five (almost like an animated cartoon).  He is in the act of throwing a snowball at the camera.  It sails toward us and over our heads, out of scene. 
Reverse angle - on the house featuring a large sign reading: 
MRS. KANE'S BOARDINGHOUSE 
HIGH CLASS MEALS AND LODGING 
INQUIRE WITHIN 
Charles Kane's snowball hits the sign. 
INT. PARLOR - MRS. KANE'S BOARDINGHOUSE - DAY - 
Camera is angling through the window, but the window-frame is not cut into scene.  We see only the field of snow again, same angle as in previous scene.  Charles is manufacturing another snowball.  Now - 
Camera pulls back, the frame of the window appearing, and we are inside the parlor of the boardinghouse.  Mrs. Kane, aged about 28, is looking out towards her son.  Just as we take her in she speaks: 
MRS. KANE (calling out) Be careful, Charles! 
THATCHER'S VOICE Mrs. Kane - 
MRS. KANE (Calling out the window almost on top of this) Pull your muffler around your neck, Charles - 
But Charles, deliriously happy in the snow, is oblivious to this and is running away.  Mrs. Kane turns into camera and we see her face - a strong face, worn and kind. 
THATCHER'S VOICE think we'll have to tell him now - 
Camera now pulls back further, showing Thatcher standing before a table on which is his stove-pipe hat and an imposing multiplicity of official-looking documents.  He is 26 and, as might be expected, a very stuffy young man, already very expensive and conservative looking, even in Colorado. 
MRS. KANE I'll sign those papers - 
KANE SR. You people seem to forget that I'm the boy's father. 
At the sound of Kane Sr.'s voice, both have turned to him and the camera pulls back still further, taking him in. 
Kane Sr., who is the assistant curator in a livery stable, has been groomed as elegantly as is likely for this meeting ever since daybreak. 
From outside the window can be heard faintly the wild and cheerful cries of the boy, blissfully cavorting in the snow. 
MRS. KANE It's going to be done exactly the way I've told Mr. Thatcher - 
KANE SR. If I want to, I can go to court. father has a right to - 
THATCHER (annoyed) Mr. Kane, the certificates that Mr.  Graves left here are made out to Mrs.  Kane, in her name.  Hers to do with as she pleases - 
KANE SR. Well, I don't hold with signing my boy away to any bank as guardian just because - 
MRS. KANE (quietly) I want you to stop all this nonsense, Jim. 
THATCHER The Bank's decision in all matters concerning his education, his place of residence and similar subjects will be final. (clears his throat) 
KANE SR. The idea of a bank being the guardian - 
Mrs. Kane has met his eye.  Her triumph over him finds expression in his failure to finish his sentence. 
MRS. KANE (even more quietly) I want you to stop all this nonsense, Jim. 
THATCHER We will assume full management of the Colorado Lode - of which you, Mrs. Kane, are the sole owner. 
Kane Sr. opens his mouth once or twice, as if to say something, but chokes down his opinion. 
MRS. KANE (has been reading past Thatcher's shoulder as he talked) Where do I sign, Mr. Thatcher? 
THATCHER Right here, Mrs. Kane. 
KANE SR. (sulkily) Don't say I didn't warn you. 
Mrs. Kane lifts the quill pen. 
KANE SR. Mary, I'm asking you for the last time - anyon'd think I hadn't been a good husband and a - 
Mrs. Kane looks at him slowly.  He stops his speech. 
THATCHER The sum of fifty thousand dollars a year is to be paid to yourself and Mr. Kane as long as you both live, and thereafter the survivor - 
Mrs. Kane puts pen to the paper and signs. 
KANE SR. Well, let's hope it's all for the best. 
MRS. KANE It is.  Go on, Mr. Thatcher - 
THATCHER Come on, Charles.  Let's shake hands. (extends his hand. Charles continues to look at him) Now, now!  I'm not as frightening as all that!  Let's shake, what do you say? 
He reaches out for Charles's hand.  Without a word, Charles hits him in the stomach with the sled.  Thatcher stumbles back a few feet, gasping. 
THATCHER (with a sickly grin) You almost hurt me, Charles. (moves towards him) Sleds aren't to hit people with. Sleds are to - to sleigh on.  When we get to New York, Charles, we'll get you a sled that will - 
He's near enough to try to put a hand on Kane's shoulder.  As he does, Kane kicks him in the ankle. 
MRS. KANE Charles! 
He throws himself on her, his arms around her.  Slowly Mrs. Kane puts her arms around him. 
KANE (frightened) Mom!  Mom! 
MRS. KANE It's all right, Charles, it's all right. 
Thatcher is looking on indignantly, occasionally bending over to rub his ankle. 
KANE SR. Sorry, Mr. Thatcher!  What the kid needs is a good thrashing! 
MRS. KANE That's what you think, is it, Jim? 
KANE SR. Yes. 
Mrs. Kane looks slowly at Mr. Kane. 
MRS. KANE (slowly) That's why he's going to be brought up where you can't get at him. 
DISSOLVE: 
1870 - NIGHT (STOCK OR MINIATURE) 
Old-fashioned railroad wheels underneath a sleeper, spinning along the track. 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. TRAIN - OLD-FASHIONED DRAWING ROOM - NIGHT - 
Thatcher, with a look of mingled exasperation, annoyance, sympathy and inability to handle the situation, is standing alongside a berth, looking at Kane.  Kane, his face in the pillow, is crying with heartbreaking sobs. 
KANE Mom!  Mom! 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
The white page of the Thatcher manuscript.  We pick up the words: 
"HE WAS, I REPEAT, A COMMON ADVENTURER, SPOILED, UNSCRUPULOUS, IRRESPONSIBLE." 
The words are followed by printed headline on "Enquirer" copy (as in following scene). 
INT. ENQUIRER CITY ROOM - DAY - 
Close-up on printed headline which reads: 
"ENEMY ARMADA OFF JERSEY COAST" 
Camera pulls back to reveal Thatcher holding the "Enquirer" copy, on which we read the headline.  He is standing near the editorial round table around which a section of the staff, including Reilly, Leland and Kane are eating lunch. 
THATCHER (coldly) Is that really your idea of how to run a newspaper? 
KANE I don't know how to run a newspaper, Mr. Thatcher.  I just try everything I can think of. 
THATCHER (reading headline of paper he is still holding) "Enemy Armada Off Jersey Coast." You know you haven't the slightest proof that this - this armada - is off the Jersey Coast. 
KANE Can you prove it isn't? 
Bernstein has come into the picture.  He has a cable in his hand.  He stops when he sees Thatcher. 
KANE Mr. Bernstein, Mr. Thatcher - 
BERNSTEIN How are you, Mr. Thatcher? 
THATCHER How do you do? - 
BERNSTEIN We just had a wire from Cuba, Mr. Kane - (stops, embarrassed) 
KANE That's all right.  We have no secrets from our readers.  Mr. Thatcher is one of our most devoted readers, Mr.  Bernstein.  He knows what's wrong with every issue since I've taken charge.  What's the cable? 
BERNSTEIN (reading) The food is marvelous in Cuba the senoritas are beautiful stop I could send you prose poems of palm trees and sunrises and tropical colors blending in far off landscapes but don't feel right in spending your money for this stop there's no war in Cuba regards Wheeler. 
THATCHER You see!  There hasn't been a true word - 
KANE I think we'll have to send our friend Wheeler a cable, Mr. Bernstein.  Of course, we'll have to make it shorter than his, because he's working on an expense account and we're not.  Let me see - (snaps his fingers) Mike! 
MIKE (a fairly tough customer prepares to take dictation, his mouth still full of food) Go ahead, Mr. Kane. 
KANE Dear Wheeler - (pauses a moment) You provide the prose poems - I'll provide the war. 
Laughter from the boys and girls at the table. 
BERNSTEIN That's fine, Mr. Kane. 
KANE I rather like it myself.  Send it right away. 
MIKE Right away. 
THOMPSON You know why?  She was so - 
BERNSTEIN Sure, sure. 
THOMPSON I'm going back there. 
BERNSTEIN Who else did you see? 
THOMPSON Nobody else, but I've been through that stuff of Walter Thatcher's. That journal of his - 
BERNSTEIN Thatcher!  That man was the biggest darn fool I ever met - 
THOMPSON He made an awful lot of money. 
BERNSTEIN It's not trick to make an awful lot of money if all you want is to make a lot of money. (his eyes get reflective) Thatcher! 
Bernstein looks out of the window and keeps on looking, seeming to see something as he talks. 
BERNSTEIN He never knew there was anything in the world but money.  That kind of fellow you can fool every day in the week - and twice on Sundays! (reflectively) The time he came to Rome for Mr. Kane's twenty-fifth birthday... You know, when Mr. Kane got control of his own money...  Such a fool like Thatcher - I tell you, nobody's business! 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
DISSOLVE IN: 
INT. BERNSTEIN'S OFFICE - DAY - 
Bernstein speaking to Thompson. 
BERNSTEIN He knew what he wanted, Mr. Kane did, and he got it!  Thatcher never did figure him out.  He was hard to figure sometimes, even for me. Mr. Kane was a genius like he said. He had that funny sense of humor. Sometimes even I didn't get the joke.  Like that night the opera house of his opened in Chicago... You know, the opera house he built for Susie, she should be an opera singer... (indicates with a little wave of his hand what he thinks of that; sighing) That was years later, of course - 1914 it was.  Mrs. Kane took the leading part in the opera, and she was terrible.  But nobody had the nerve to say so - not even the critics.  Mr. Kane was a big man in those days.  But this one fellow, this friend of his, Branford Leland - 
He leaves the sentence up in the air, as we 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. CITY ROOM - CHICAGO ENQUIRER - NIGHT - 
It is late.  The room is almost empty.  Nobody is at work at the desks.  Bernstein, fifty, is waiting anxiously with a little group of Kane's hirelings, most of them in evening dress with overcoats and hats.  Eveybody is tense and expectant. 
CITY EDITOR (turns to a young hireling; quietly) What about Branford Leland?  Has he got in his copy? 
HIRELING Not yet. 
BERNSTEIN Go in and ask him to hurry. 
CITY EDITOR Well, why don't you, Mr. Bernstein? You know Mr. Leland. 
BERNSTEIN (looks at him for a moment; then slowly) I might make him nervous. 
CITY EDITOR (after a pause) You and Leland and Mr. Kane - you were great friends back in the old days, I understand. 
BERNSTEIN (with a smile) That's right.  They called us the "Three Musketeers." 
Somebody behind Bernstein has trouble concealing his laughter. The City Editor speaks quickly to cover the situation. 
CITY EDITOR He's a great guy - Leland. (another little pause) Why'd he ever leave New York? 
BERNSTEIN (he isn't saying) That's a long story. 
ANOTHER HIRELING (a tactless one) Wasn't there some sort of quarrel between - 
BERNSTEIN (quickly) I had nothing to do with it. (then, somberly) It was Leland and Mr. Kane, and you couldn't call it a quarrel exactly.  Better we should forget such things - (turning to City Editor) Leland is writing it up from the dramatic angle? 
CITY EDITOR Yes.  I thought it was a good idea. We've covered it from the news end, of course. 
BERNSTEIN And the social.  How about the music notice?  You got that in? 
CITY EDITOR Oh, yes, it's already made up. Our Mr. Mervin wrote a small review. 
BERNSTEIN Enthusiastic? 
CITY EDITOR Yes, very! (quietly) Naturally. 
BERNSTEIN Well, well - isn't that nice? 
KANE'S VOICE Mr. Bernstein - 
Bernstein turns. 
Medium long shot of Kane, now forty-nine, already quite stout. He is in white tie, wearing his overcoat and carrying a folded opera hat. 
BERNSTEIN Hello, Mr. Kane. 
The Hirelings rush, with Bernstein, to Kane's side.  Widespread, half-suppressed sensation. 
CITY EDITOR Mr. Kane, this is a surprise! 
KANE We've got a nice plant here. 
Everybody falls silent.  There isn't anything to say. 
KANE Was the show covered by every department? 
CITY EDITOR Exactly according to your instructions, Mr. Kane.  We've got two spreads of pictures. 
KANE (very, very casually) And the notice? 
THOMPSON (after a pause) I guess Mr. Kane didn't think so well of Susie's art anyway. 
BERNSTEIN (looks at him very soberly) He thought she was great, Mr. Thompson.  He really believed that. He put all his ambition on that girl.  After she came along, he never really cared for himself like he used to.  Oh, I don't blame Susie - 
THOMPSON Well, then, how could he write that roast?  The notices in the Kane papers were always very kind to her. 
BERNSTEIN Oh, yes.  He saw to that.  I tell you, Mr. Thompson, he was a hard man to figure out.  He had that funny sense of humor.  And then, too, maybe he thought by finishing that piece he could show Leland he was an honest man.  You see, Leland didn't think so.  I guess he showed him all right.  He's a nice fellow, but he's a dreamer.  They were always together in those early days when we just started the Enquirer. 
On these last words, we 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. CITY ROOM - ENQUIRER BUILDING - DAY - 
The front half of the second floor constitutes one large City Room.  Despite the brilliant sunshine outside, very little of it is actually getting into the room because the windows are small and narrow.  There are about a dozen tables and desks, of the old-fashioned type, not flat, available for reporters. Two tables, on a raised platform at the end of the room, obviously serve the city room executives.  To the left of the platform is an open door which leads into the Sanctrum. 
As Kane and Leland enter the room, an elderly, stout gent on the raised platform, strikes a bell and the other eight occupants of the room - all men - rise and face the new arrivals.  Carter, the elderly gent, in formal clothes, rises and starts toward them. 
CARTER Welcome, Mr. Kane, to the "Enquirer."  I am Herbert Carter. 
KANE Thank you, Mr Carter.  This is Mr. Leland. 
CARTER (bowing) How do you do, Mr. Leland? 
KANE (pointing to the standing reporters) Are they standing for me? 
CARTER I thought it would be a nice gesture the new publisher - 
KANE (grinning) Ask them to sit down. 
CARTER You may resume your work, gentlemen. (to Kane) I didn't know your plans and so I was unable to make any preparations. 
KANE I don't my plans myself. 
They are following Carter to his raised platform. 
KANE As a matter of fact, I haven't got any.  Except to get out a newspaper. 
There is a terrific crash at the doorway.  They all turn to see Bernstein sprawled at the entrance.  A roll of bedding, a suitcase, and two framed pictures were too much for him. 
KANE Oh, Mr. Bernstein! 
Bernstein looks up. 
KANE If you would come here a moment, please, Mr. Bernstein? 
Bernstein rises and comes over, tidying himself as he comes. 
KANE Mr. Carter, this is Mr. Bernstein. Mr. Bernstein is my general manager. 
CARTER (frigidly) How do you do, Mr. Bernstein? 
KANE You've got a private office here, haven't you? 
The delivery wagon driver has now appeared in the entrance with parts of the bedstead and other furniture.  He is looking about, a bit bewildered. 
CARTER (indicating open door to left of platform) My little sanctum is at your disposal.  But I don't think I understand - 
KANE I'm going to live right here. (reflectively) As long as I have to. 
CARTER But a morning newspaper, Mr. Kane. After all, we're practically closed twelve hours a day - except for the business offices - 
KANE That's one of the things I think must be changed, Mr. Carter.  The news goes on for twenty-four hours a day. 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. KANE'S OFFICE - LATE DAY - 
Kane, in his shirt sleeves, at a roll-top desk in the Sanctum, is working feverishly on copy and eating a very sizeable meal at the same time.  Carter, still formally coated, is seated alongside him.  Leland, seated in a corner, is looking on, detached, amused.  The furniture has been pushed around and Kane's effects are somewhat in place.  On a corner of the desk, Bernstein is writing down figures.  No one pays any attention to him. 
KANE I'm not criticizing, Mr. Carter, but here's what I mean.  There's a front page story in the "Chronicle," (points to it) and a picture - of a woman in Brooklyn who is missing.  Probably murdered. (looks to make sure of the name) A Mrs. Harry Silverstone.  Why didn't the "Enquirer" have that this morning? 
CARTER (stiffly) Because we're running a newspaper, Mr.  Kane, not a scandal sheet. 
Kane has finished eating.  He pushes away his plates. 
KANE I'm still hungry, Brad.  Let's go to Rector's and get something decent. (pointing to the "Chronicle" before him) The "Chronicle" has a two-column headline, Mr. Carter.  Why haven't we? 
CARTER There is no news big enough. 
KANE If the headline is big enough, it makes the new big enough.  The murder of Mrs. Harry Silverstone - 
CARTER (hotly) As a matter of fact, we sent a man to the Silverstone home yesterday afternoon. (triumphantly) Our man even arrived before the "Chronicle" reporter.  And there's no proof that the woman was murdered - or even that she's dead. 
KANE (smiling a bit) The "Chronicle" doesn't say she's murdered, Mr. Carter.  It says the neighbors are getting suspicious. 
CARTER (stiffly) It's not our function to report the gossip of housewives.  If we were interested in that kind of thing, Mr. Kane, we could fill the paper twice over daily - 
KANE (gently) That's the kind of thing we are going to be interested in from now on, Mr. Carter.  Right now, I wish you'd send your best man up to see Mr. Silverstone.  Have him tell Mr.  Silverstone if he doesn't produce his wife at once, the "Enquirer" will have him arrested. (he gets an idea) Have him tell Mr. Silverstone he's a detective from the Central Office. If Mr. Silverstone asks to see his badge, your man is to get indignant and call Mr. Silverstone an anarchist. 
Loudly, so that the neighbors can hear. 
CARTER Really, Mr. Kane, I can't see the function of a respectable newspaper - 
Kane isn't listening to him. 
INT. ENQUIRER OFFICE 
Cartoonist and Kane working on comic strip of "Johnny the Monk." 
DISSOLVE: 
Floor of room -  Two kids on floor, with newspaper spread out, looking at the same comic strip. 
Kane's photographic gallery with photographers, stooges, and Kane himself in attendance on a very hot-looking item of the period.  A sob sister is interviewing this hot number and Kane is arranging her dress to look more seductive. 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
DISSOLVE IN: 
The hot number reproduced and prominently displayed and covering almost half a page of the "Enquirer."  It is being read in a barber shop and is seen in an over-shoulder shot of the man who is reading it.  He is getting a shine, a manicure, and a haircut.  The sob-sister caption over the photograph reveals: "I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT I WAS DOING, SAYS DANCER.  EVERYTHING WENT RED."  An oval photograph of the gun is included in the lay- out of the pretty lady with a headline which says: "DEATH GUN." 
STREET - SHOT OF BUCKET BRIGADE 
Shot of Kane, in evening clothes, in obvious position of danger, grabbing camera from photographer.  Before him rages a terrific tenement fire. 
DISSOLVE: 
INSERT:  Headline about inadequacy of present fire equipment. 
DISSOLVE: 
Final shot of a new horse-drawn steam engine roaring around a street corner (Stock). 
DISSOLVE: 
A black pattern of iron bars.  We are in a prison cell.  The door is opened and a condemned man, with priest, warden and the usual attendants, moves into foreground and starts up the hall past a group which includes phtographers, Kane's sob- sister, and Kane.  The photographers take pictures with a mighty flash of old-fashioned flash powder.  The condemned man in the foreground (in silhouette) is startled by this. 
DISSOLVE: 
A copy of the "Enquirer" spread out on a table.  A big lay-out of the execution story includes the killer as photographed by Kane's photographers, and nearby on the other page there is a large picture of the new steam fire engine (made from the stock shot) with a headline indicating that the "Enquirer" has won its campaign for better equipment.  A cup of coffee and a doughnut are on the newspaper, and a servant girl - over whose shoulder we see the paper - is stirring the coffee. 
The Beaux Art Ball.  A number of elderly swells are jammed into a hallway.  Servants suddenly divest them of their furs, overcoats and wraps, revealing them to be in fancy dress costume, pink fleshings, etc., the effect to be very surprising, very lavish and very very ridiculous.  We see, among others, Mr. Thatcher himself (as Ben Hur) ribbon around, his bald head and all.  At the conclusion of this tableau, the image freezes and we pull back to show it reproduced on the society page of the "New York Enquirer." 
Over the "Enquirer"'s pictorial version of the Beaux Art Ball is thrown a huge fish - then coffee grounds - altogether a pretty repulsive sight. 
The whole thing is bundled up and thrown into a garbage can. 
Extreme close-up of the words: "OCCUPATION - JOUNALIST." 
Camera pulls back to show passport open to the photograph page which shows Kane, registering birth, race, and nationality. Passport cover is closed, showing it to be an American passport. 
EXT. CUNARD DOCKS - GANGPLANK AND DECK OF BOAT - NIGHT - 
As camera pulls back over shoulder of official, taking in Kane, Leland, and Bernstein, we see the bustle and noise of departing ocean liner.  Behind the principles can be seen an enormous plain sign which reads: "FIRST CLASS."  From offstage can be heard the steward's cry, indispensable in any Mercury production, the old familiar cry, "All Ashore That's Going Ashore!" - gongs, also blasts of the great whistle and all the rest of it. 
THE OFFICIAL There you are, Mr. Kane.  Everything in order. 
KANE Thank you. 
Kane and Leland and Bernstein start up the gangplank. 
THE OFFICIAL (calling) Have a good rest, Mr. Kane. 
KANE Thanks. 
BERNSTEIN But please, Mr. Kane, don't buy any more paintings.  Nine Venuses already we got, twenty-six Virgins - two whole warehouses full of stuff - 
KANE I promise not to bring any more Venuses and not to worry - and not to try to get in touch with any of the papers - 
STEWARD'S VOICE All ashore! 
KANE - and to forget about the new feature sections - and not to try to think up and ideas for comic sections. 
STEWARD'S VOICE All ashore that's going ashore! 
Kane leaves Leland and Bernstein midway up gangplank, as he rushes up to it, calling back with a wave: 
KANE Goodbye, gents! (at the top of the gangplank, he turns and calls down) Hey! 
KANE (calling down to them) You don't expect me to keep any of those promises, do you? 
A band on deck strikes up "Auld Lang Syne."  Bernstein and Leland turn to each other. 
BERNSTEIN Do you, Mr. Leland? 
LELAND (smiling) Certainly not. 
They start down the gangplank together. 
DISSOLVE: 
LONG SHOT OF THE ENQUIRER BUILDING - NIGHT 
The pattern of telegraph wires, dripping with rain, through which we see the same old building but now rendered fairly remarkable by tremendous outline sign in gold which reads "THE NEW YORK DAILY ENQUIRER."  A couple of lights show in the building.  We start toward the window where the lights show, as we - 
DISSOLVE: 
EXT. OUTSIDE THE WINDOW AT BERNSTEIN'S DESK - NIGHT 
The light in the window in the former shot was showing behind the letter "E" of the Enquirer sign.  Now the letter "E" is even larger than the frame of the camera.  Rain drips disconsolately off the middle part of the figure.  We see through this and through the drizzle of the window to Bernstein's desk where he sits working under a blue shaded light. 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. BERNSTEIN'S OFFICE - ENQUIRER - DAY - 
Bernstein and Thompson.  As the dissolve comes, Bernstein's voice is heard. 
BERNSTEIN The way things turned out, I don't need to tell you - Miss Emily Norton was no rosebud! 
THOMPSON It didn't end very well, did it? 
BERNSTEIN (shaking his head) It ended - (a slight pause) Then there was Susie - that ended, too. (shrugs, a pause; then looking up into Thompson's eyes) guess he didn't make her very happy - 
(A PAUSE) You know, I was thinking - that Rosebud you're trying to find out about - 
THOMPSON Yes - 
BERNSTEIN Maybe that was something he lost. Mr. Kane was a man that lost - almost everything he had - (a pause) You ought to talk to Bradford Leland.  He could tell you a lot. I wish I could tell you where Leland is, but I don't know myself.  He may be out of town somewhere - he may be dead. 
THOMPSON In case you'd like to know, Mr. Bernstein, he's at the Huntington Memorial Hospital on 180th Street. 
BERNSTEIN You don't say!  Why I had no idea - 
THOMPSON Nothing particular the matter with him, they tell me.  Just - (controls himself) 
BERNSTEIN Just old age. (smiles sadly) It's the only disease, Mr. Thompson, you don't look forward to being cured of. (pauses) You ought to see Mr. Leland. There's a whole lot of things he could tell you - if he wanted to. 
FADE OUT: 
FADE IN: 
EXT. HOSPITAL ROOF - DAY - 
Close shot - Thompson.  He is tilted back in a chair which seems to be, and is, leaning against a chimney.  Leland's voice is heard for a few moments before Leland is seen. 
LELAND'S VOICE When you get to my age, young man, you don't miss anything.  Unless maybe it's a good drink of bourbon. Even that doesn't make much difference, if you remember there hasn't been any good bourbon in this country for twenty years. 
Camera has pulled back, during above speech, revealing that Leland, wrapped in a blanket, is in a wheel chair, talking to Thompson.  They are on the flat roof of a hospital.  Other people in wheel chairs can be seen in the background, along with a nurse or two.  They are all sunning themselves. 
THOMPSON Mr. Leland, you were - 
LELAND You don't happen to have a cigar, do you?  I've got a young physician - must remember to ask to see his license - the odds are a hundred to one he hasn't got one - who thinks I'm going to stop smoking... I changed the subject, didn't I? Dear, dear!  What a disagreeable old man I've become.  You want to know what I think of Charlie Kane? Well - I suppose he has some private sort of greatness.  But he kept it to himself. (grinning) He never - gave himself away -  He never gave anything away.  He just - left you a tip.  He had a generous mind.  I don't suppose anybody ever had so many opinions.  That was because he had the power to express them, and Charlie lived on power and the excitement of using it -  But he didn't believe in anything except Charlie Kane.  He never had a conviction in his life. I guess he died without one - That must have been pretty unpleasant.  Of course, a lot of us check out with no special conviction about death.  But we do know what we're leaving ... we believe in something. (looks sharply at Thompson) You're absolutely sure you haven't got a cigar? 
THOMPSON Sorry, Mr. Leland. 
LELAND Never mind -  Bernstein told you about the first days at the office, didn't he?  Well, Charlie was a bad newspaper man even then.  He entertained his readers, but he never told them the truth. 
THOMPSON Maybe you could remember something that - 
LELAND I can remember everything.  That's my curse, young man.  It's the greatest curse that's ever been inflicted on the human race.  Memory - I was his oldest friend. (slowly) As far as I was concerned, he behaved like swine.  Maybe I wasnt' his friend.  If I wasn't, he never had one.  Maybe I was what nowadays you call a stooge - 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
DISSOLVE IN: 
INT. CITY ROOM - THE ENQUIRER - NIGHT - 
The party (previously shown in the Bernstein sequence). 
We start this sequence toward the end of the former one, but from a fresh angle, holding on Leland, who is at the end of the table.  Kane is heard off, making a speech. 
KANE'S VOICE Not one of you has been hired because of his loyalty.  It's your talent I'm interested in.  That talent that's going to make the "Enquirer" the kind of paper I want - the best newspaper in the world! 
Applause.  During above, Bernstein has come to Leland's side. 
BERNSTEIN Isn't it wonderful?  Such a party! 
LELAND Yes. 
His tone causes Bernstein to look at him. 
KANE'S VOICE However, I think you'll agree we've heard enough about newspapers and the newspaper business for one night. 
The above speeches are heard under the following dialogue. 
BERNSTEIN (to Leland) What's the matter? 
LELAND Mr. Bernstein, these men who are now with the "Enquirer" - who were with the "Chronicle" until yesterday - weren't they just as devoted to the "Chronicle" kind of paper as they are now to - our kind of paper? 
BERNSTEIN Sure.  They're like anybody else. They got work to do.  They do it. (proudly) Only they happen to be the best men in the business. 
KANE (finishing his speech) There are other subjects in the world - 
Kane whistles.  The band and the chorus girls enter and hell breaks loose all around Leland and Bernstein. 
LELAND (after a minute) Do we stand for the same things that the "Chronicle" stands for, Mr. Bernstein? 
BERNSTEIN (indignantly) Certainly not.  So what's that got to do with it?  Mr. Kane, he'll have them changed to his kind of newspapermen in a week. 
LELAND Probably.  There's always a chance, of course, that they'll change Mr. Kane - without his knowing it. 
Kane has come up to Leland and Bernstein.  He sits down next to them, lighting a cigarette. 
KANE Well, gentlemen, are we going to war? 
LELAND Our readers are, anyway, I don't know about the rest of the country. 
Bernstein and Leland on deck. 
BERNSTEIN (turns to Leland) Do you, Mr. Leland? 
LELAND (smiling) Certainly not. 
Slight pause.  They continue on their way. 
BERNSTEIN Mr. Leland, why didn't you go to Europe with him?  He wanted you to.  He said to me just yesterday - 
LELAND I wanted him to have fun - and with me along - 
This stops Bernstein.  Bernstein looks at him. 
LELAND Mr. Bernstein, I wish you'd let me ask you a few questions, and answer me truthfully. 
BERNSTEIN Don't I always?  Most of the time? 
LELAND Mr. Bernstein, am I a stuffed shirt? Am I a horse-faced hypocrite?  Am I a New England school-marm? 
BERNSTEIN Yes. 
Leland is surprised. 
BERNSTEIN If you thought I'd answer different from what Mr. Kane tells you - well, I wouldn't. 
LELAND (good naturedly) You're in a conspiracy against me, you two.  You always have been. 
BERNSTEIN Against me there should be such a conspiracy some time! 
He pauses.  "Auld Lang Syne" can still be heard from the deck of the department steamer. 
BERNSTEIN (with a hopeful look in his eyes) Well, he'll be coming back in September.  The Majestic.  I got the reservations.  It gets in on the ninth. 
LELAND September the ninth? 
Leland puts his hand in his pocket, pulls out a pencil and small engagement book, opens the book and starts to write. 
Leland's pencil writing on a page in the engagement book open to September 9: "Rector's - 8:30 p.m." 
DISSOLVE: 
Front page "Enquirer."  Large picture of the young couple - Kane and Emily - occupying four columns - very happy. 
EXT. HOSPITAL ROOF - DAY - 
Leland and Thompson.  Leland is speaking as we dissolve. 
LELAND I used to go to dancing school with her. 
Thompson had handed Leland a paper. 
LELAND What's this? 
THOMPSON It's a letter from her lawyers. 
LELAND (reading aloud from the letter) David, Grobleski & Davis -  My dear Rawlston - (looks up) 
THOMPSON Rawlston is my boss. 
LELAND Oh, yes.  I know about Mr. Rawlston. 
THOMPSON He knows the first Mrs. Kane socially -  That's the answer we got. 
LELAND (reading) I am in receipt of your favor of yesterday.  I beg you to do me the courtesy of accepting my assurance that Mrs. Whitehall cannot be induced to contribute any more information on the career of Charles Foster Kane. 
She has authorized me to state on previous occasions that she regards their brief marriage as a distateful episode in her life that she prefers to forget.  With assurances of the highest esteem - Leland hands the paper back to Thompson. 
LELAND Brief marriage!  Ten years! (sighs) 
THOMPSON Was he in love? 
LELAND He married for love - (a little laugh) That's why he did everything. That's why he went into politics. It seems we weren't enough.  He wanted all the voters to love him, too.  All he really wanted out of life was love.  That's Charlie's story - it's the story of how he lost it.  You see, he just didn't have any to give.  He loved Charlie Kane, of course, very dearly - and his mother, I guess he always loved her.  As for Emily - well, all I can tell you is Emily's story as she told it to me, which probably isn't fair - there's supposed to be two sides to every story - and I guess there are.  I guess there's more than two sides - 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
DISSOLVE IN: 
Newspaper - Kane's marriage to Emily with still of group on White House lawn, same setup as early newsreel in News Digest. 
DISSOLVE: 
Screaming headline: OIL SCANDAL! 
DISSOLVE: 
Headline reading: KANE TO SEE PRESIDENT 
DISSOLVE: 
Big headline on "Enquirer" front page which reads: KANE TO SEE PRESIDENT 
Under this, one of those big box signed editorials, typical of Kane, illustrated, on subject of the power of the president, expressed in about nine different cases of type, and illustrated by a cartoon of the White House, on which camera tightens, as we - 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
INT. KANE'S OFFICE - ENQUIRER - NIGHT - 
The staff standing around, worried to death, in their shirtsleeves. 
KANE (to Reilly) Take dictation -  Front page editorial -  "This afternoon a great man was assassinated.  He was the President of the United States -" 
LELAND Charlie - 
KANE Yes? 
LELAND Do you think you're the one who should call him a great man? 
KANE Why not? 
LELAND Why not?  Well - nobody's a great man in your estimation until he's dead. 
REILLY (quickly) Maybe we'd better wait for more word on the President's condition. 
KANE (still looking at Leland) What do you mean by that? 
LELAND (quietly) Competition. 
REILLY He may recover - 
KANE (still holding on Leland) What do you mean by that? 
LELAND (steadily) Yesterday morning you called the President a traitor.  What do you think that crowd is doing down there?  They think you murdered him. 
KANE Because the crackpot who did it had a copy of the "Enquirer" in his pocket? 
LELAND - and that copy of the "Enquirer" said the President should be killed. 
KANE I said treason was a capital offense punishable by death - 
LELAND You've said a lot of things about the President in the last few months. 
KANE They're true!  Everything I said! Witholding that veto was treason! 
LELAND (interrupting) Charlie! 
KANE (riding over him) Oil belonging to the people of the United States was leased out for a song to a gang of high-pressure crooks -  Nobody can blame me because - 
LELAND Look out that window. 
Kane stops - looks at him. 
LELAND There are the people of the United States, and they are blaming you - Oh, I know it doesn't make any sense, but at least you can learn a lesson from it. 
KANE (snarling) What lesson?  Not to expose fraud when I see it?  Not to fight for the right of the people to own their own property? (he turns to Reilly) Run it the way I said, Reilly - "This afternoon a great man was assassinated -" 
LELAND Charlie!  Now you're not making sense. 
KANE (sharply) I don't have to.  I run a newspaper with half a million readers and they're getting a martyred president this morning with their breakfast. I can't help that.  Besides, they all know I'm married to his niece. I've got to think of her. 
LELAND What? 
KANE I've got to think of Emily - 
LELAND (after a silence) I'd like to talk to you about that. 
KANE Go ahead. 
Leland looks back at Kane, is conscious of the boys standing around. 
LELAND Finish your editorial. 
Leland walks out in to the City Room.  More staff members in shirt sleeves in a state of panic.  Leland goes to his desk, takes out a bottle, pours himself a very stiff drink.  A door opens.  A Policeman enters with Bernstein.  Bernstein is badly battered.  The boys crowd around. 
LELAND (worried) What's happened? 
BERNSTEIN (smiling) I'm all right, Mr. Leland.  Only there was some fellows out front that thought they ought to take things up with me.  I learned 'em! Didn't I, officer? 
THE COP (grinning) You sure did -  Say, the Commissioner said I was to stand by and protect Mr. Kane until further orders, no matter how he felt about it.  Where is he? 
LELAND (finishing his drink) In there. 
BERNSTEIN If you hadn't come along and protected me when you did, I'd have killed them fellows. 
LELAND (pouring himself another drink) Go and get yourself washed up, Mr. Bernstein. (he looks his face over thoroughly) There doesn't seem to be an serious injury. 
BERNSTEIN Not to me.  But you will let that cop go home with Mr. Kane, won't you? 
LELAND Yes, Mr. Bernstein. 
Bernstein leaves the picture with sympathetic attendance. Leland finishes his second drink. 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. KANE'S OFFICE - NIGHT - 
The bottle is finished.  The door in the Sanctrum opens.  Reilly and the others leave. 
REILLY (as they go) Goodnight, Mr. Kane. 
Kane stands in the door, waiting for Leland.  Leland gets up and moves toward the office - goes in, sits down across from Kane at the desk.  An uncomfortable pause.  Then Kane smiles ingratiatingly.  Leland tries to cope with this. 
Leland shakes his head.  Kane lifts his glass. 
KANE To love on my terms.  Those are the only terms anybody knows ... his own. 
DISSOLVE: 
EXT. ENQUIRER BUILDING - NIGHT - 
Kane, Leland, and a couple of policemen make their way out of the front toward a hansom cab. 
A VOICE FROM THE CROWD You moiderer! 
A rock is thrown.  It hits Leland on the face.  A little blood flows.  Kane doesn't see it at first.  Then when he's in the hansom cab, he turns and notices it. 
KANE Are you hurt? 
Leland has a handkerchief to his face. 
LELAND No.  I wish you'd go home to Emily. She'll be pretty upset by all this - She still loves you - 
The crowd, pushed by the cops, retreats in the background, but still hard by. 
KANE You still want to be transferred to the other paper? 
LELAND Yes. 
KANE (leaning out of the hansom cab) Well, you've been getting a pretty low salary here in New York.  It seems to me that the new dramatic critic of our Chicago paper should get what he's worth. (almost as a question) 
LELAND (with handkerchief still attached to his face) I couldn't possibly live on as little as that, Charlie.  We'll let the salary stay where it is. 
The hansom cab starts up.  We hold on Leland's face as we 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
DISSOLVE IN: 
INT. KANE'S NEW YORK HOME - KANE'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING - 
Emily is in bed, a damp cloth over her temples.  Kane is standing at the foot of the bed.  The baby's bed is in a corner of the room.  The baby's nurse is standing near the crib, a nurse for Emily is near her.  Kane is looking fixedly on Emily, who is staring tiredly at the ceiling. 
KANE (to the nurse) Excuse us a moment, please. 
The nurse looks at Emily. 
KANE (peremptorily) I said, excuse us a moment. 
The nurse, unwilling, leaves. 
KANE I've been talking to Leland.  Emily - You can't leave me now - not now - 
Silence. 
KANE It isn't what it would do to my changes in politics, Emily -  That isn't it -  They were talking of running me for governor, but now, of course, we'll have to wait - It isn't that, Emily -  It's just - the president is your uncle and they're saying I killed him. 
Still silence. 
KANE That story about the murderer having a copy of the "Enquirer" in his pocket - the "Chronicle" made that up out of whole cloth -  Emily, please - He's going to be all right, you know, he's going to recover - (bitterly) If it will make you any happier, we had nine pages of advertising cancelled in the first mail this morning.  Bernstein is afraid to open any more letters.  He - 
He stops.  He sees that he's getting no place with Emily. 
KANE (exasperated) What do you expect me to do?  What in the world - 
EMILY (weakly) Charles. 
He waits for her to continue. 
EMILY Do you really think - (she can't continue) Those threatening letters, can they really - 
She sits up and looks at the crib.  She almost continues to look at the crib, with almost unseeing eyes. 
KANE (uncomfortably) They won't do anything to Junior, darling. (contemptuously) Anonymous letter writers -   I've got guards in front of the house, and I'm going to arrange - 
EMILY (turning her face toward him) Please don't talk any more, Charles. 
Kane is about to say something, but bites his lips instead. Emily keeps staring at him. 
EMILY Have they heard from father yet? Has he seen - 
KANE I've tried to tell you, Emily. The President's going to be all right.  He had a comfortable night. There's no danger of any kind. 
Emily nods several times.  There is an uncomforable silence. Suddenly there is a cry from the crib.  Emily leaps from the bed and rushes to him.  She bends over the crib. 
EMILY (murmuring) Here I am, darling...  Darling!... Darling, it's all right...  Mother's here. 
KANE Emily - you musn't leave me now - you can't do that to me. 
EMILY They won't hurt you, darling. Mother's with you!  Mother's looking after you! 
Kane, unwanted, ignored, looks on.  Tightening his lips, he walks out. 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
DISSOLVE IN: 
INT. KANE'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
There are good nights.  Kane's car is at the curb and he starts to walk toward it with Junior and Emily. 
EMILY I'm sending Junior home in the car, Charles - with Oliver - 
KANE But I'd arranged to go home with you myself. 
EMILY There's a call I want you to make with me, Charles. 
KANE It can wait. 
EMILY No, it can't. (she bends down and kisses Junior) Good night, darling. 
JUNIOR Good night, Mom. 
The driver is holding the rear door open as Emily guides Junior in. 
KANE (as car starts to drive off) What's this all about, Emily? I've had a very tiring day and - 
EMILY It may not be about anything at all. 
A cab has pulled up. 
THE DRIVER Cab? 
Emily nods to him. 
EMILY I intend to find out. 
KANE I insist on being told exactly what you have in mind. 
EMILY I'm going to - (she looks at a slip of paper in her hand) - 185 West 74th Street. 
Kane's reaction indicates that the address definitely means something to him. 
EMILY If you wish, you can come with me... 
Kane nods. 
KANE I'll go with you. 
He opens the door and she enters the cab.  He follows her. 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. CAB - NIGHT - 
Kane and Emily.  He looks at her, in search of some kind of enlightenment.  Her face is set and impassive. 
DISSOLVE: 
EXT. AND INT. APARTMENT HOUSE HALLWAY - NIGHT - 
Kane and Emily, in front of an apartment door.  Emily is pressing the bell. 
KANE I had no idea you had this flair for melodrama, Emiliy. 
Emily does not answer.  The door is opened by a maid, who recognizes Kane. 
THE MAID Come in, Mr. Kane, come in. 
They enter, Emily first. 
INT. SUSAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - 
There is first a tiny reception room, through which an open door shows the living room.  Kane and Emily enter from the hallway and cross to the living room.  As they enter, Susan rises from a chair.  The other person  in the room - a big, heavyset man, a little past middle age - stays where he is, leaning back in his chair, regarding Kane intently. 
SUSAN It wasn't my fault, Charlie.  He made me send your wife a note. He said I'd - oh, he's been saying the most terrible things, I didn't know what to do...  I - (she catches sight of Emily) 
ROGERS Good evening, Mr. Kane. (he rises) I don't suppose anybody would introduce us.  Mrs. Kane, I am Edward Rogers. 
EMILY How do you do? (pauses) I came here - and I made Mr. Kane come with me... (she consults the note in her hand without reading it again) because I recieved this note - 
ROGERS I made Miss - Miss Alexander send you the note.  She was a little unwilling at first - (he smiles grimly) but she did it. 
SUSAN I can't tell you the things he said, Charlie.  You haven't got any idea - 
KANE (turning on Rogers) Rogers, I don't think I will postpone doing something about you until I'm elected. (he starts toward him) To start with, I'll break your neck. 
ROGERS (not giving way an inch) Maybe you can do it and maybe you can't, Mr. Kane. 
EMILY Charles! (he stops to look at her) Your - your breaking this man's neck - (she is clearly disgusted) would scarcely explain this note - (glancing at the note) Serious consequences for Mr. Kane - (slowly) for myself, and for my son.  What does this note mean, Miss - 
SUSAN (stiffly) I'm Susan Alexander. (pauses) I know what you think, Mrs. Kane, but - 
EMILY (ignoring this) What does this note mean, Miss Alexander? 
ROGERS She doesn't know, Mrs. Kane.  She just sent it - because I made her see it wouldn't be smart for her not to send it. 
KANE In case you don't know, Emily, this - this gentleman - (he puts a world of scorn into the word) is - 
ROGERS I'm not a gentleman, Mrs. Kane, and your husband is just trying to be funny calling me one.  I don't even know what a gentleman is. (tensely, with all the hatred and venom in the world) You see, my idea of a gentleman, Mrs.  Kane - well, if I owned a newspaper and if I didn't like the way somebody else was doing things - some politican, say - I'd fight them with everything I had.  Only I wouldn't show him in a convict suit, with stripes - so his children could see the picture in the paper. Or his mother. (he has to control himself from hurling himself at Kane) It's pretty clear - I'm not a gentleman. 
EMILY Oh!! 
KANE You're a cheap, crooked grafter - and your concern for your children and your mother - 
KANE What are you waiting here for? Why don't you go? 
EMILY Goodnight, Charles. 
She walks out.  Rogers stops as he gets directly in front of Kane. 
ROGERS You're the greatest fool I've ever known, Kane.  If it was anybody else, I'd say what's going to happen to you would be a lesson to you. Only you're going to need more than one lesson.  And you're going to get more than one lesson. (he walks past Kane) 
KANE Don't you worry about me.  I'm Charles Foster Kane.  I'm no cheap, crooked politician, trying to save himself from the consequences of his crimes - 
INT. APARTMENT HOUSE HALLWAY - NIGHT - 
Camera angling toward Kane from other end of the hall.  Rogers and Emily are already down the hall, moving toward foreground. Kane in apartment doorway background. 
KANE (screams louder) I'm going to send you to Sing Sing, Rogers.  Sing Sing! 
Kane is trembling with rage as he shakes his fist at Rogers's back.  Susan, quieter now, has snuggled into the hollow of his shoulder as they stand in the doorway. 
DISSOLVE: 
The "Chronicle" front page with photograph (as in the "News Digest") revealing Kane's relations with Susan. 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
DISSOLVE IN: 
Front page of "Chronicle" - Headline which reads: 
ROGERS ELECTED 
DISSOLVE: 
Front page of "Enquirer" - Headline which reads: 
FRAUD AT POLLS 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - 
Emily is opening the door for Leland. 
EMILY Hello, Brad - 
LELAND Emily - 
He pauses.  Leland comes in.  Emily closes the door. 
EMILY I'm sorry I sent for you, Brad - didn't - 
LELAND Chicago is pretty close to New York nowadays - only twenty hours - 
She doesn't have anything to say. 
LELAND I'm glad to see you. 
She smiles at him and we know that there isn't anybody else in the world for her to smile at.  She's too grateful to talk. 
EMILY Are all the returns in? 
Leland puts his hat unconsciously on his coat by the newspaper. 
EMILY Let me see it. 
Leland takes the newspaper out of his pocket and hands it to her.  She takes it.  We see the headline, not an insert, but it registers.  It reads: "Fraud at Polls."  Emily is looking at the paper with unseeing eyes, and a little smile. 
LELAND (after a pause) Almost two to one - 
EMILY I'm surprised he got the votes he did. 
LELAND Emily! 
EMILY Why should anyone vote for him? He's made it quite clear to the people what he thinks of them. Children - to be told one thing one day, something else the next, as the whim seizes him.  And they're supposed to be grateful and love and adore him - because he sees to it that they get cheap ice and only pay a nickel in the street cars. 
LELAND Emily, you're being - a little unfair -  You know what I think of Charles' behavior - about your personal lives - 
EMILY There aren't any personal lives for people like us.  He made that very clear to me nine years ago - If I'd thought of my life with Charles as a personal life, I'd have left him then - 
LELAND know that, Emily - 
EMILY (on top of Leland) Maybe I should have - the first time he showed me what a mad dog he really was. 
LELAND (on the cue "dog") Emily, you - 
EMILY Brad, I'm -  I'm not an old woman yet - 
LELAND It's - all over - 
He stops himself. 
EMILY (after a pause) Know it is, Brad - 
LELAND He's paying for it, Emily.  Those returns tonight - he's finished. Politically - (he thinks) - socially, everywhere, I guess. don't know about the papers, but - 
EMILY If you're asking me to sympathize with him, Brad, you're wasting your time. (pauses) There's only one person I'm sorry for, as a matter of fact.  That - that shabby little girl.  I'm really sorry for her, Brad. 
LELAND (testily) All right, all right. (he has begun to move forward on the Nurse's arm; turning to Thompson) You won't forget, will you, about the cigars?  And tell them to wrap them up to look like toothpaste, or something, or they'll stop them at the desk.  That young doctor I was telling you about, he's got an idea he wants to keep me alive. 
DISSOLVE: 
EXT. "EL RANCHO" CABARET IN ATLANTIC CITY - EARLY DAWN - 
NEON SIGN ON THE ROOF: 
"EL RANCHO" 
FLOOR SHOW 
SUSAN ALEXANDER KANE 
TWICE NIGHTLY 
glows on the dark screen as in the previous sequence earlier in the script.  Behind the lights and through them, we see a nasty early morning.  Camera as before, moves through the lights of the sign and down on the skylight, through which is seen Susan at her regular table,  Thompson seated across from her. 
Very faintly during this, idle piano music playing. 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. "EL RANCHO" CABARET - EARLY DAWN - 
Susan and Thompson are facing each other.  The place is almost deserted.  Susan is sober.  On the other side of the room, somebody is playing a piano. 
SUSAN How do you want to handle the whole thing - ask questions? 
THOMPSON I'd rather you just talked. Anything that comes into your mind - about yourself and Mr. Kane. 
SUSAN You wouldn't want to hear a lot of what comes into my mind about myself and Mr. Charlie Kane. 
Susan is thinking. 
THOMPSON How did you meet him? 
SUSAN I had a toothache. 
Thompson looks at her. 
SUSAN That was thiry years ago - and I still remember that toothache. Boy!  That toothache was just driving me crazy... 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
DISSOLVE IN: 
EXT. CORNER DRUG STORE AND STREET ON THE WEST SIDE OF NEW YORK - NIGHT - 
Susan, aged twenty, neatly but cheaply dressed in the style of the period, is leaving the drug store.  It's about 8 o'clock at night.  With a large, man-sized handkerchief pressed to her cheek, she is in considerable pain.  The street is wet - after a recent rain. 
She walks a few steps towards the middle of the block, and can stand it no longer.  She stops, opens a bottle of Oil of Cloves that she has in her hand, applies some to her finger, and rubs her gums. 
She walks on, the pain only a bit better.  Four or five houses farther along, she comes to what is clearly her own doorway - a shabby, old four-story apartment house.  She turns toward the doorway, which is up a tiny stoop, about three steps. 
As she does so, Kane, coming from the opposite direction, almost bumps into her and turns to his left to avoid her.  His shoulder bumps hers and she turns.  As she does so, Kane, forced to change his course, steps on the loose end of a plank which covers a puddle in the bad sidewalk.  The plank rises up and cracks him on the knee, also covering him with mud. 
KANE (hopping up and down and rubbing his knee) Ow! 
Susan, taking her handkerchief from her jaw, roars with laughter. 
KANE It's not funny. 
He bites his lip and rubs his knee again.  Susan tries to control her laughter, but not very successfully.  Kane glares at her. 
SUSAN I'm sorry, mister - but you do look awful funny. 
Suddenly, the pain returns and she claps her hand to her jaw. 
SUSAN Ow! 
KANE What's the matter with you? 
SUSAN Toothache. 
KANE Hmm! 
He has been rubbing his clothes with his handkerchief. 
SUSAN You've got some on your face. 
KANE If these sidewalks were kept in condition - instead of the money going to some cheap grafter - 
Susan starts to laugh again. 
KANE What's funny now? 
SUSAN You are.  You look like you've been making mud pies. 
In the middle of her smile, the pain returns. 
SUSAN Oh! 
KANE You're no Venus de Milo. 
SUSAN (points to the downstair window) If you want to come in and wash your face -  I can get you some hot water to get that dirt off your trousers - 
SUSAN Excuse me, Mr. Kane.  I know this takes a lot of nerve, but - who are you?  I mean - I'm pretty ignorant, guess you caught on to that - 
KANE (looks squarely at her) You really don't know who I am? 
SUSAN No.  That is, I bet it turns out I've heard your name a million times, only you know how it is - 
KANE But you like me, don't you?  Even though you don't know who I am? 
SUSAN You've been wonderful!  I can't tell you how glad I am you're here, I don't know many people and - (she stops) 
KANE And I know too many people. Obviously, we're both lonely. (he smiles) Would you like to know where I was going tonight - when you ran into me and ruined my Sunday clothes? 
SUSAN I didn't run into you and I bet they're not your Sunday clothes. You've probably got a lot of clothes. 
KANE (as if defending himself from a terrible onslaught) I was only joking! (pauses) This evening I was on my way to the Western Manhattan Warehouses - in search of my youth. 
Susan is bewildered. 
KANE You see, my mother died, too - a long time ago.  Her things were put into storage out west because I had no place to put them then. I still haven't.  But now I've sent for them just the same.  And tonight I'd planned to make a sort of sentimental journey - (slowly) - to the scenes of my youth - my childhood, I suppose - to look again at - (he changes mood slightly) and now - 
Kane doesn't finish.  He looks at Susan.  Silence. 
KANE Who am I?  Well, let's see.  Charles Foster Kane was born in New Salem, Colorado in eighteen six - (he stops on the word "sixty" - obviously a little embarrassed) I run a couple of newspapers.  How about you? 
SUSAN Oh, me - 
KANE How old did you say you were? 
SUSAN (very bright) I didn't say. 
KANE I didn't think you did.  If you had, I wouldn't have asked you again, because I'd have remembered. How old? 
SUSAN Pretty old.  I'll be twenty-two in August. 
KANE (looks at her silently for a moment) That's a ripe old age -  What do you do? 
SUSAN I work at Seligman's. 
KANE Is that what you want to do? 
SUSAN I want to be a singer. (she thinks for a moment) I mean, I didn't.  Mother did for me. 
KANE (sympathetically) What happened to the singing? You're not in a show, are you? 
SUSAN Oh, no!  Nothing like that.  Mother always thought - she used to talk about Grand Opera for me.  Imagine! An American girl, for one thing - and then my voice isn't really that kind anyway, it's just that Mother - you know what mothers are like. 
A sudden look comes over Kane's face. 
KANE Yes - 
SUSAN As a matter of fact, I do sing a little. 
KANE (points to the piano) Would you sing for me? 
SUSAN (bashful) Oh, you wouldn't want to hear me sing. 
KANE Yes, I would.  That's why I asked. 
SUSAN Well, I - 
KANE Don't tell me your toothache is bothering you again? 
SUSAN Oh, no, that's all gone. 
KANE Then you have no alibi at all. Please sing. 
Susan, with a tiny ladylike hesitancy, goes to the piano and sings a polite song.  Sweetly, nicely, she sings with a small, untrained voice.  Kane listens.  He is relaxed, at ease with the world. 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. "EL RANCHO" CABARET - EARLY DAWN - 
Susan tosses down a drink, then goes on with her story. 
SUSAN I did a lot of singing after that. I sang for Charlie -  I sang for teachers at a hundred bucks an hour - the teachers got that, I didn't - 
THOMPSON What did you get? 
SUSAN (glares at him balefully) What do you mean? 
Thompson doesn't answer. 
SUSAN I didn't get a thing.  Just the music lessons.  That's all there was to it. 
THOMPSON He married you, didn't he? 
SUSAN He was in love with me.  But he never told me so until after it all came out in the papers about us - and he lost the election and that Norton woman divorced him. 
THOMPSON What about that apartment? 
SUSAN He wanted me to be comfortable - Oh, why should I bother?  You don't believe me, but it's true.  It just happens to be true.  He was really interested in my voice. (sharply) What are you smiling for?  What do you think he built that opera house for?  I didn't want it.  I didn't want to sing.  It was his idea - everything was his idea - except my leaving him. 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. LIVING ROOM OF KANE'S HOUSE IN NEW YORK - DAY - 
SUSAN Love!  You don't love anybody!  Me or anybody else!  You want to be loved - that's all you want!  I'm Charles Foster Kane.  Whatever you want - just name it and it's yours! Only love me!  Don't expect me to love you - 
Without a word, Kane slaps her across the face.  They look at each other. 
SUSAN You - you hit me. 
Kane continues to look at her. 
SUSAN You'll never have another chance to hit me again. (pauses) Never knew till this minute - 
KANE Susan, it seems to me - 
SUSAN Don't tell me you're sorry. 
KANE I'm not sorry. 
SUSAN I'm going to leave you. 
KANE No, you're not. 
SUSAN (nods) Yes. 
They look at each other, fixedly, but she doesn't give way. In fact, the camera on Kane's face shows the beginning of a startled look, as of one who sees something unfamiliar and unbelievable. 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. KANE'S STUDY - XANADU - DAY - 
Kane is a the window looking out.  He turns as he hears Raymond enter. 
RAYMOND Mrs. Kane would like to see you, Mr. Kane. 
KANE All right. 
Raymond waits as Kane hesitates. 
KANE Is Mrs. Kane - (he can't finish) 
RAYMOND Marie has been packing since morning, Mr. Kane. 
Kane impetuously walks past him out of the room. 
INT. SUSAN'S ROOM - XANADU - DAY - 
Packed suitcases are on the floor, Susan is completely dressed for travelling.  Kane bursts into the room. 
SUSAN Tell Arnold I'm ready, Marie.  He can get the bags. 
MARIE Yes, Mrs. Kane. 
She leaves.  Kane closes the door behind her. 
KANE Have you gone completely crazy? 
Susan looks at him. 
KANE Don't you realize that everybody here is going to know about this? That you've packed your bags and ordered the car and - 
SUSAN - And left?  Of course they'll hear.  I'm not saying goodbye - except to you - but I never imagined that people wouldn't know. 
Kane is standing against the door as if physically barring her way. 
KANE I won't let you go. 
SUSAN You can't stop me. 
Kane keeps looking at her.  Susan reaches out her hand. 
SUSAN Goodbye, Charlie. 
KANE (suddenly) Don't go, Susan. 
SUSAN Let's not start all over again, Charlie.  We've said everything that can be said. 
KANE Susan, don't go!  Susan, please! 
He has lost all pride.  Susan stops.  She is affected by this. 
KANE You mustn't go, Susan. Everything'll be exactly the way you want it.  Not the way I think you want it - by your way.  Please, Susan - Susan! 
She is staring at him.  She might weaken. 
KANE Don't go, Susan!  You mustn't go! (almost blubbering) You - you can't do this to me, Susan - 
It's as if he had thrown ice water into her face.  She freezes. 
SUSAN I see - it's you that this is being done to!  It's not me at all.  Not how I feel.  Not what it means to me. (she laughs) I can't do this to you! (she looks at him) Oh, yes I can. 
She walks out, past Kane, who turns to watch her go, like a very tired old man. 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
DISSOLVE IN: 
INT. "EL RANCHO" CABARET - NIGHT - 
As the dissolve completes itself, camera is travellling across the floor of the chapel past the crypts of Kane's father and mother - (marked: James Kane - 18- TO 19-; Mary Kane - 18- TO 19-;) - past a blank crypt, and then holding on the burial of Kane's son.  A group of ordinary workmen in ordinary clothes are lowering a very expensive-looking coffin into its crypt. Kane stands nearby with Raymond, looking on.  The men strain and grunt as the coffin bangs on the stone floor.  The men now place over it a long marble slab on which is cut the words: 
CHARLES FOSTER KANE II. 
ONE OF THE WORKMEN Sorry, Mr. Kane, we won't be able to cement it till tommorrow.  We - 
Kane looks right through him.  Raymond cuts him short. 
RAYMOND Okay. 
The men tip their hats and shuffle out of the chapel.  Kane raises his head, looks at the inscription on the wall.  It is a little to one side of Junior's grave, directly over the blank place which will be occupied by Kane himself. 
KANE Do you like poetry, Raymond? 
RAYMOND Can't say, sir. 
KANE Mrs. Kane liked poetry - 
Raymond is now convinced that the old master is very far gone indeed - not to say off his trolley. 
RAYMOND Yes, Mr. Kane. 
KANE Not my wife - not either of them. 
He looks at the grave next to his son's - the grave marked "MARY KANE." 
RAYMOND (catching on) Oh, yes, sir. 
KANE (looking back up at the wall) Do you know what that is? 
RAYMOND (more his keeper than his butler now) It's a wall you bought in China, Mr. Kane. 
KANE Persia.  It belonged to a king. 
RAYMOND How did you get him to part with it, Mr. Kane? 
KANE He was dead...  That's a poem.  Do you know what it means? 
RAYMOND No, I don't, Mr. Kane. 
KANE I didn't used to be afraid of it. 
A short pause.  His eyes still on the wall, but looking through it, Kane quotes the translation. 
KANE The drunkeness of youth has passed like a fever, And yet I saw many things, Seeing my glory in the days of my glory, I thought my power eternal And the days of my life Fixed surely in the years But a whisper came to me From Him who dies not.  I called my tributary kings together And those who were proud rulers under me, I opened the boxes of my treasure to them, saying: "Take hills of gold, moutains of silver, And give me only one more day upon the earth." But they stood silent, Looking upon the ground; So that I died And Death came to sit upon my throne.  O sons of men You see a stranger upon the road, You call to him and he does not step.  He is your life Walking towards time, Hurrying to meet the kings of India and China. (quoting) O sons of men You are caught in the web of the world And the spider Nothing waits behind it.  Where are the men with towering hopes? They have changed places with owls, Owls who have lived in tombs And now inhabit a palace. 
Kane still stares at the wall, through it, and way beyond it. Raymond looks at him. 
DISSOLVE OUT: 
DISSOLVE IN: 
INT. GREAT HALL - XANADU - NIGHT - 
Thompson and Raymond.  Raymond has finished his beer. 
RAYMOND (callously) That's the whole works, right up to date. 
THOMPSON Sentimental fellow, aren't you? 
RAYMOND Yes and no. 
THOMPSON (getting to his feet) Well, thanks a lot. 
RAYMOND See what I mean?  He was a little gone in the head - the last couple of years, anyway - but I knew how to handle him. (rises) That "Rosebud" - that don't mean anything.  I heard him say it. He just said "Rosebud" and then he dropped that glass ball and it broke on the floor.  He didn't say anything about that, so I knew he was dead - He said all kind of things I couldn't make out.  But I knew how to take care of him. 
Thompson doesn't answer. 
RAYMOND You can go on asking questions if you want to. 
THOMPSON (coldly) We're leaving tonight.  As soon as they're through photographing the stuff - 
Thompson has risen.  Raymond gets to his feet and goes to the door, opening it for him. 
RAYMOND Allow yourself plenty of time. The train stops at the Junction On signal - but they don't like to wait.  Not now.  I can remember when they'd wait all day ... if Mr. Kane said so. 
Raymond ushes Thompson into 
INT. THE GREAT HALL - XANADU - NIGHT - 
The magnificent tapestries, candelabra, etc., are still there, but now several large packing cases are piled against the walls, some broken open, some shut and a number of objects, great and small, are piled pell mell all over the place.  Furniture, statues, paintings, bric-a-brac - things of obviously enormous value are standing beside a kitchen stove, an old rocking chair and other junk, among which is also an old sled, the self-same story.  Somewhere in the back, one of the vast Gothic windows of the hall is open and a light wind blows through the scene, rustling the papers. 
In the center of the hall, a Photographer and his Assistant are busy photographing the sundry objects.  The floor is littered with burnt-out flash bulbs.  They continue their work throughout the early part of the scene so that now and then a flash bulb goes off.  In addition to the Photographer and his Assistant, there are a Girl and Two Newspaperment - the Second and Third Men of the projection room scene - also Thompson and Raymond. 
The Girl and the Second Man, who wears a hat, are dancing somewhere in the back of the hall to the music of a phonograph. A flash bulb goes off.  The Photographer has just photographed a picture, obviously of great value, an Italian primitive. The Assistant consults a label on the back of it. 
ASSISTANT NO. 9182 
The Third Newspaperman starts to jot this information down. 
ASSISTANT "Nativity" - attributed to Donatello, acquired Florence 1921, cost 45,000 lira.  Got that? 
THIRD NEWSPAPERMAN Yeah. 
PHOTOGRAPHER All right!  Next!  Better get that statue over there. 
