City of Joy 
Written by GERALD BRACH & ROLAND JOFFE 
October 1990 Early Draft 
FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY 
CITY OF JOY 
FADE IN: 
TITLE SEQUENCE. EXT. BIHAR - DAY (DAWN, SUMMER, MID-1980) Heat that has mass. That rises off the parched earth in shimmering waves. After a moment, we see what appear to be figures coming out of the haze, one by one. A family with their few belongings: HASARI PAL, 33, his wife, ALOKA, 28, and their children, daughter, AMRITA, 13, sons MANOOJ and SHAMBU, 11 and 9; HASARI'S MOTHER and FATHER. They embark toward the night, the rising sun behind them. 
EXT. ROADSIDE - BUS STOP - DAY (DAWN) Hasari's Father passes a gourd of precious water. Hasari serves the children first. Shambu gulps entirely too much, the others forcing him to stop by a unified force of will. Embarrassed, he passes the cup to his brother, who sips, as does his sister. Aloka barely wets her lips, insisting on leaving the last drops for Hasari. And now, a rooster tail of dust rises up behind the approaching bus and the old parents bid farewell to their son's family. There is an intense sadness at leaving the land and Hasari's Mother clings to him... HASARI I'll send money soon. His Mother nods, as Hasari erupts in a small cough which, by habit, he suppresses. His Mother crushes Aloka to her. HASARI'S MOTHER Don't let the children out of your sight. Not for a moment. Now the children. She wants to keep them here even as the old man touches her, reminding her she must let them go. HASARI'S MOTHER Help your parents. Don't fight with each other. And, Manooj, stay away from the cinema, do you hear? Shambu, his eyes big as saucers, whispers to his grandma... (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: SHAMBU I don't want to go. There are bad men with long knives who steal children. That does it: Hasari's   Mother dissolves in tears, but the old man nevertheless  unlooses her insistently from the children. Aloka and   the children get on the bus as the old man embraces his  son. HASARI'S FATHER A man's journey to the end of his obligations is a very long road. Yours begins here. 
EXT. ROADSIDE/INT. BUS - DAY There's not an empty inch inside the little vehicle or on top.  The passengers are silent. A woman breast feeds a baby.  Several passengers fan themselves. Many sleep. The Pals squeeze wearily into the rear seat. MANOOJ (to his neighbor) Our farm has died, so we are moving to Calcutta to become rich! Hasari and Aloka look  at each other: If only it were the pursuit of wealth and  not survival. The woman under- stands. And now the   BUS GRINDS forward and the Pals look back. Hasari coughs,   suppresses it... as silence falls. The elder Pals stand huddled   together in the dust and we see, nestled behind a boulder   at the roadside, a tiny, blue flower -- beautiful and   fragile, but like all things alive, determined to live...   and we hear the sound of a DOZEN VOICES CHANTING a quiet   mantra in unison as we -- DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. ASHRAM - ANOTHER FLOWER - DAY This flower floats gently in a bowl of water. The TITLES END as we PULL BACK SLOWLY to reveal a dozen Anglos, several Indians, and one Kenyan seated cross-legged before an aging Yogi, who's quietly urging the suppli- cants to find "their light, allow your white light to fill your spirit's eye." Above, ceiling fans move the air. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: As we PAN the group, we see that everyone has his/her eyes closed in earnest meditation... until we COME TO an American, MAX LOEB, 29, who pops open first his right eye -- looks to his right and left -- closes his right eye and opens his left eye -- looks left and right... and then, instead of continuing the mantra and the search for his white light, expels a stream of air through his pursed lips, making a vibrating, flatulent sound, one indicative of sizeable frustration and dismissal. MAX Get serious. Around him, other single eyes pop open, searching for the source of this unmeditative sound. Max nods and smiles a wry smile as if to say: This just ain't doin' it for me, folks. 
EXT. HOWRAH STATION (CALCUTTA) - DAY (EARLY MORNING) A huge bridge dominates the skyline. The train     trundles to a stop, its WHISTLE clearing the way. People     hang on its sides, sit on the roof... and now flood the    platform, flowing into the station, clearing a view for us    of the Pals, clinging to their baggage in the middle of    this human anthill. 
CLOSE ON THEM (MOVING) Hands reach out with sweets to sell, with tea, asking for money. MANOOJ Daddy, I'm scared. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: HASARI Scared? No -- why? This is very exciting. As soon as we get to our friend's house, everything will be fine. But, despite Hasari's charade of confidence, they (and we) are overwhelmed by the size of the station and the desperate energy of the humanity around them. As they press on, a small beggar woman huddled on the platform turns her eyes eerily on Manooj... as a deformed hand stretches INTO the FRAME. Aloka senses someone: A beggar, face half-hidden and eaten away by leprosy. This terrifying image presses the boys tightly to their mother and moves Hasari to encircle Armita with one hand and attempt to wrap the other three inside the embrace of his other hand. It does not seem possible that he can protect all of them against the predatory eyes watching them. He moves them quickly to a wall... HASARI Wait right here. Don't move. 
WITH HASARI He moves to a line of VENDORS, shows a piece of paper to one, as he digs out his precious screw of money to make a purchase of sweets from the Vendor. HASARI Please, can you direct me to my friend at this address? We are to stay with him. The Vendor gives the address a look, shows it to the Vendor next to him. Both look at Hasari. VENDOR #1 There's no such address as this in Calcutta. HASARI But that's not possible. VENDOR #1 Of course    it is possible! I have lived here    all my life. You are new. Who     would know if a place exists or    does not? VENDOR #2 Bombay, perhaps. Delhi.     Look there. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Dear God, what now? Stunned, Hasari hands Vendor #1 a rupee and, with the sweets, turns back to his family, his face going through a magical transformation as he prepares to suggest to the family that all is well. 
EXT. CHOWRINGHEE LANE - DAY (MIDDAY SUN) A few clean and cared-for Ambassador cars sweep into the gateway of the Grand Hotel, past a gateman. RACK FOCUS TO: 
FEET - MAIDAN 
Feet tramping the pulsating tarmac, sending up dust. 
ANOTHER ANGLE The Pals, scared, dispirited, weary, consumed by the crowd. They've been walking a long  time. Shambu cries; Aloka tries to ease his fear. They  stop numbly at the edge of the park, put their bundles down against a long wall. Across the way, a thin policeman shares a cigarette with a group of traders. There is a deeply fearful look in Hasari's eyes, a look he is having difficulty controlling now. He needs to revive the family's confidence. He takes out his precious bundle of rupees and gives one to Manooj. Manooj, though, is fixed on the cinema across the street. Hasari indicates a stall just across the main road. 
HASARI Manooj, go and get some fruit. Come straight back. Delighted with his task, Manooj sets off, his eyes on the marquee of the theater with its huge cardboard cutout of Kumar Kapur, starring in Hot Gun. Hasari calls out to him to watch where he's going; the mere crossing of the street is a potential parental nightmare. A hand ruffles Manooj's head and a TALL MAN with dark eyes and a sweet smile comes at the boy's anxious parents. GANGOOLY (TALL MAN) Yes, hello, brother. Bihar, am I correct? HASARI Yes, how did you know? (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Hasari is torn between speaking to the man and watching his son's incredible journey across the street. GANGOOLY Let me say only that the terrible malevolence that has visited your part of the country affects us all. HASARI Three years without rain. Nothing came out of the earth but debts. GANGOOLY Terrible. And now, the    family on the street. It is not    acceptable. (smile widens) And if I can't help, my   name is not Mr. Gangooly... Which,   blessedly, it is. And now a smile as full as the sky above. 
EXT. SMALL BUILDING IN BACK STREET - DAY A brick slides out of the wall. We're BEHIND the brick and see Gangooly's soft face as he reaches in and pulls out a key. The street is small and empty.  Though the houses are nothing much, to the Pals, they look like palaces. Manooj and Shambu run about in delight. Gangooly motions for quiet. With a flourish, he  opens the door. 
CONTINUED: It's full of something brown. He  pushes his fingers in and feels this bit of earth with a tenderness that's almost religious, puts a pinch to his nose and breathes it in. The LAUGHTER and SHOUTING  from the bathing area is GROWING. 
INT. BATHING AREA Shambu is paddling near the tap. Aloka is bending over the drain and Amrita is rinsing her heavy, dark hair with a pot. Manooj is nearby, rubbing himself with an old towel. Hasari enters unnoticed and looks at the group with tenderness... and with gratitude for their good fortune. 
A MAN, red with anger, yanks the curtain aside, stares. The family freezes. Aloka's hair drips unnoticed on her sari. MAN What are you doing here?   Who are you? HASARI My name is Pal, Hasari. Mr. Gangooly rented this space to -- MAN Mr. Who? HASARI Gangooly.   You must be his cousin, Mr. Moti. MAN I don't know any Gangooly and my name is Binal and this is my home -- get out! The furious Binal, followed by the Pals, goes into the main part of the room. A small crowd has been attracted by the noise. HASARI But this is true. We paid him a deposit of fifty -- BINAL A man goes out because he has to work, and some beggar tries to move in while his back is turned. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: This while Binal has begun to throw things out onto the street, though this cleansing of his home doesn't stop him from picking up a stick. The odd sympathizer meets with... BINAL So, should I suffer if they are so stupid to jump into the first mouth that wants to eat them? He turns with the stick on Hasari. BINAL You're lucky I don't kill you! 
Hasari looks at Manooj, who drops his eyes. They collect the remainder of their possessions and hurry out the door. 
EXT. SMALL STREET - DAY Full of neighbors. There's a suppressed violence in the air. A man pushes Aloka. Sweat streaming down his face, Hasari confronts the man. A WOMAN pushes the men apart. WOMAN Go to the river. Try to squeeze in there. 
EXT. VICTORIA MONUMENT - STREET - NIGHT (DUSK) Calcutta broiling: Buses, vendors, carts, rickshaws, children beg at car windows. The Pals stand, uncertain, and for the first time a rickshaw fills Hasari's eye, carrying two passengers. But now he shoulders his burden and leads the family toward the river. We HOLD until they grow small against the setting sun, gleaming red against the white domes of the Victoria Monument. 
INT. CHATTERGEE'S LIBRARY - TORSO - NIGHT Moving through the dark, a figure, touching things, looking at photographs of the Chattergees. We hear a MUFFLED DIALOGUE mixed with the SINGING a la Dean Martin of "Everybody Loves Somebody Sometime": "Goddamn it, boy, what's the matter with you? -- "Everybody loves somebody sometime" -- "Go for it, son!" -- "Sure, Dad, whatever you say, Dad." -- "Everybody falls in love somehow" -- "You're the dad, Dad." Now, a humidor. Max opens it, takes out a cigar, takes two. Takes five. Senses someone. Turns. 
ANOTHER ANGLE Ravi in her bathrobe. MAX I'm starving. He gives her his best saint's smile. RAVI Well, you don't want to eat those awful cigars. Come with me, we'll wake up the cook, she'll fix you something proper. 
EXT. KITCHEN - WINDOW - NIGHT 
THROUGH the window, we see the bleary-eyed cook laying out food as Ravi chatters away at Max, he with a beatific grin on his face as he feeds himself. 
EXT. RIVER BANK - HOWRAH BRIDGE - DAY The bridge etched against the dawn sky. The corpse of an indigent is collected and put on a cart. 
INT. JUTE MILL - DAY A flaking gray wall, half-obscured with moldering files. The grilled window lets in a little light and the quiet supplications of those outside. An old CLERK at a desk. A voice calls out.       The Clerk looks up, crosses to the grill. Hasari's tense face through the bars. A TRUCK RUMBLES past, drowning out the words... except these: "...trade union." The Clerk shakes his head sadly. On the verge of panic, Hasari hangs onto the window... CLERK Do you have family? 
HASARI Yes, yes of course. But I'm three days without work. I'll take anything. The Clerk digs in his pocket, presses two rupees on Hasari. CLERK Here, now go away. HASARI No, I don't want you to give me -- The next man in line forcibly moves Hasari out of the way. CLERK In this city, a man with a family can't be proud. Take it! 
The Clerk waves him away, turns his attention to the next man. 
INT. CHATTERGEE RECEPTION ROOM - DAY (LATE AFTERNOON) Manubai's face.   Then Max's.   Then hers.    Then his. Looking at each other.   Five days.   Kiss.    Ravi. MAX I said you have three days to get me into bed, and I'm betting you can't do it. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MANUBAI It's all right for you to use my mother as your tour guide and meal ticket, because she'll get something nice out of it. But what would I get? He stares at her a moment, then gets up, goes around the table. MAX Well, gee,    I don't know. Maybe I could say    something so amusing that you'd    laugh so hard it would break that    hot poker you have up your ass. She stares at him. He bends to kiss her. She doesn't pull away... but after a moment he realizes she isn't responding. He continues the kiss, but he opens his eyes... to find her staring at him. He pulls back. They stare at each other another moment, then Max senses someone in the doorway. 
RAVI Staring at them, disappointment filling her eyes. 
MAX The same sound of frustration and ennui he made in the ashram. 
EXT. CHATTERGEE HOME - DAY His arm around Max, Veejay guides the young man toward a waiting taxi. VEEJAY Believe me, I understand, but you know how women are. Do you have enough money? Max gives him a non-commital shrug.    Veejay winks, stuffs the money into Max's pocket. 
EXT. GREEN ACRES COURTYARD - COW - DAY (LATE AFTERNOON) Bare feet... and then sneakered feet step over the sleep- ing bovine, who turns a disinterested eye up. 
ANOTHER ANGLE Max is guided by a grumpy hall PORTER wearing an off- white shirt and bellbottoms through the walled and well planted courtyard of an inexpensive hotel. Max gives the cow a bemused eye... 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY The room is utterly utilitarian. The Porter turns on a ceiling fan, sending an army of cockroaches scurrying for calmer terrain. Max clearly doesn't care for cockroaches. PORTER It pleases you? 
MAX No fruit basket? No mini bar? Max hands the Porter several rupees. PORTER Bar? Of course -- many, many. But make care, Sahib. Please, for me. If it is lady you like to know -- yes? -- you let me. Huh? Very sweet girl, good nature, very sweet. Or boy, very good... Max puts a finger on the Porter's head, turns him for the door. PORTER No like boy? Something then for smoke -- mmmh, very good for smoke! 
EXT. GREEN ACRES - NIGHT The sky turns red. The Porter looks up, shakes his head: Poor young man, stuck with only a trumpet for company. 
INT. MAX'S ROOM Max sits on the floor in a corner and plays as we hear the sound of a fierce WHISTLE and a SCREAMING ENGINE. 
EXT. SETTLEMENT - CLOSE ON BULLDOZER - DAWN A gigantic earthmover lurches into position. 
ANOTHER ANGLE Swarming police. 
PALS Awaken -- startled, disoriented. Aloka gentles the children as Hasari moves instinctively toward the threat. 
SCENE A black ambassadorial car pulls up, out of which steps a BABU. A microphone and speaker has been set up. Another car unloads several politicos with party banners. A minion hands the Babu the mike; he wants to get on with it before this turns into a political rally. Hasari is close to him, as is Arun. BABU The municipality has directed us to carry out the destruction of this settlement. All of you must go -- now! For a moment there is a babble of fear and frustration. Then from Hasari's side, Arun confronts the Babu. ARUN For what reason? The Babue appears disconcerted.   He's not accustomed to the poor asking questions. BABU Because this settlement is impeding construction work. 
ARUN We're not moving! Why should we move? Who is the municipality? We are! This is our home! BABU I have my orders. ARUN If we're driven from here, where should we go? BABU I'll give you five minutes to gather your things. Then, the settlement comes down. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: ARUN Why should you alone be burdened with such a task? Let me help! Arun begins to tear his shelter apart, and to heave the pieces at the Babu, who retreats. Others soon take up the call to vent their frustration, hurling things at the police and at the driver of the tractor. Quickly we've got a full-scale riot. The police wade into the crowd, pounding people with their sticks, Arun one of the first to get hit. He staggers into Hasari's arms. 
FAVORING PALS/ARUN AND HIS FAMILY 
Unbelievable! Panic-stricken, Hasari and Aloka gather the children and their few belongings... as beside them a woman goes down from a stick to the head; Aloka stops instinctively to help the woman, but Hasari grabs her, trying to shelter her and the children as well as Arun's wife and children, clutching Arun to him as in the chaos they manage to escape. 
EXT. CHURCH - CLOSE ON BILLBOARD - DAY On the billboard: A maharajah sleeping snugly on a thick mattress. From his dreamland he inquires solicitously: "Have you ever thought of a Rajah Double Spring as a present?" We PAN DOWN and FIND the Pals and Arun and his family, panting, terrified, beneath the sign. SHAMBU Daddy, are we going to die here? Hasari can see on everyone's face this question. 
HASARI No! Today, I'm just a mangy dog on the street, but soon, I swear, I'll look other men in the eye! (a beat) I swear. Yet on his face we see the extraordinary pressure to make this promise reality. 
POOMINA I can do anything you want, sahib. She fingers the   Hebrew letter at Max's throat, on its gold chain. For    a moment, Max is mesmerized by this child; but then,   as she begins more serious ministra- tions, he pulls   back. MAX Hold it, time out. Time, there's time out on the field. POOMINA Is problems, sahib? MAX Is problems, yeah, just a couple. POOMINA No, please, yes, I can -- 
There's something desperate in her that makes him put a finger to her lips and say... MAX How 'bout some chow? (she doesn't get it) I was just about to order some room service. Food. I call, they come, we eat. She stares at him. INT. MAX'S ROOM - NIGHT (HALF HOUR LATER) Max smokes a Monte  Cristo and watches Poomina, like a frightened little  animal, devour the last of a Green Acres room service  meal and then wrap a small piece of fish in the paper  napkin. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: She looks up at him, delivers a small burp.    Covers her mouth in charming embarrassment. POOMINA Now, you are ready for great pleasure, yes? MAX Watching you eat was my great pleasure. Now you go home. As he escorts her toward the door, Poomina is distressed. Max realizes she can't leave empty-handed. He pulls out some notes. 
MAX For you. She hasn't given up, though, and as he takes the money, she stands on tiptoe and kisses him. Torn, Max begins to respond. He stops  himself, his grip on her causing her discomfort. His  breath comes in little bursts. MAX You're a very wet kisser. Work on it, get in touch in five years. He leads her toward the door. Like some lunatic comedy. she resists. He pushes. She locks her knees. He opens the door. MAX Goddamn it, cut it out!   Now, good night. He muscles her out the  door, closes it, wipes his lips. He stares at a parade  of cockroaches gliding along the wall as he listens to  her CRYING quietly on the other side of the door. He   debates... and he loses. Opens the door. Poomina stands   there; the tears stop and a lip- twitching smile lights  her face. MAX Five years already? Gee, time really flies when you have no moral conviction. She slides into his arms, pressing against him. With his shoulder, he closes the door, leaving us outside. 
INT. BACK ALLEY - BAR - FLAMING LIGHT - NIGHT A bare light bulb; a SCRATCHY vinyl RECORD on a turn- table. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Poomina watches Max do a sleight-of-hand trick with a coin. He tosses it up, brings his hands past each other, then holds out his fists; she picks on... but the other holds the penny. Fooled, she laughs. He does it again; she points to one fist -- empty -- then other -- also empty. Max reaches behind her ear and... produces the coin. She loves it, her laughter escalating. But then she seesm to read something in the b.g. where we see four thugs, two of whom will become known to us as THE GOONDA, a capo to the local "mafia" chieftan, and ASHOKA, son of the local Godfather. Ashoka works on a pimple on his chin. The Goonda meticulously cleans a spot of mud with spit from one of his expensive new running shoes. Max eyes the thugs eyeing him. 
MAX Short guys!   Quit lookin' at us! This remark goes over big with the thugs. Max doesn't care. He knocks off the last of the beer in his bottle. The bartender brings them two shots of something in two unmatched glasses. POOMINA Special drink for you, sahib. Only the most man can drink it. You make try. For me. MAX For you, I would drink battery acid. POOMINA Who that finish first.   I bet! She puts her glass to her lips and, in a childish, exaggerated way, mimes waiting for him to commence a drinking race with her. The two of them toss off what's in their glasses. The bangla in Max's glass is stronger than battery acid. He does an elaborate routine involv- ing the pain, the surprise, the sheer awfulness of the drink. But puts it down with mock machismo. POOMINA I beat! MAX I really don't think so -- oh no, nay, nay! I never lose the truly irrelevant contest. POOMINA We have fun some more.   I bet again! (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: She turns to the bartender, calls for two more. All the while, in the b.g., The Goonda and his two thugs watch emotionlessly and Ashoka works on his acne. 
EXT. BAR - NIGHT Max sings "Take It to the Limit" with enormous inebriated sincerity as Poomina helps him out of the bar. There's a big black motorcycle parked outside. Max glances at it as they start down the alley. As he looks back to the road ahead, he finds The Goonda in front of him. Max isn't so drunk that he doesn't sense what this is about. He looks behind him. Indeed, the other two goons are there. Ashoka straddles the big cycle. 
MAX Well well. Seek punishment and ye shall find. Knowing what's  coming, Max nevertheless unleashes a beautiful howl  and tries to trample The Goonda off- tackle. From   behind, he's hit with a length of stick. He goes down,  looks up through blasted eyes at Ashoka as two sticks now  land against his shoulder and his head... 
EXT. MAHARAJAH SIGN - NIGHT The Pals sleep beneath the sign. Hasari awakens from restive sleep to the sound of a FIGHT. He gets up. The others awaken. ARUN Don't go -- what are you doing? 
HASARI It sounds like someone needs help. Hasari bolts for the corner. 
JOAN Indeed. What brings you to our country? MAX I came to find my white light. JOAN Ah, yes.   I take it you didn't find it. MAX Kept opening the doors and windows of my spirit, but couldn't see a goddamn thing. JOAN What do you do in America? Max is slow to answer.   Discreetly, Hasari hangs back, listens. 
JOAN Oh, how exciting. Must be something illegal. Are you a criminal of some sort? MAX I suppose that depends how you define the word: I'm a doctor. JOAN I see. How long are you here? Perhaps I could recruit you for -- MAX Forget it. You've got your non- practicing Catholics. I'm a non- practicing doctor. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: JOAN How very distressing.     Why's that? MAX Found out I just really don't like sick people. Well, I'm outta here. I owe you one. JOAN I can't imagine ever divining how to collect, but there are a few of us Indians, you know, who believe the tourist trade ought to be encouraged. 
Max turns to Hasari. Hasari is incredibly shy, can barely meet Max's eyes. MAX Thank you very much.     Let me... He goes for his money. HASARI No, please. Max finds his pockets empty. Then reaches for his wrist -- his watch is gone -- and then his throat -- his chai is gone, too. JOAN I'm afraid they cleaned you out. Ram, here's your first rider. (to Max) Take this. 
She holds out several rupees toward him.      All eyes on them. JOAN Go on, it's all right.     You'll owe me two. 
EXT. STREET - FLYING FEET - DAY Max in the rickshaw, Hasari running alongside Ram, an exuberant smile slashed across his face. HASARI You see, I can keep up. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: RAM Keep up, of course. Anyone can run at this pace. But you think it's easy to run and to pull? HASARI I can do it.   I could pull it. MAX Come on, give him a shot. He's as fast as you and looks twice as strong. RAM Will you still pay me when he runs you into a ditch? MAX Absolutely.    I trust the man. Suddenly, Ram comes to a stop. RAM All right, you, come, step in here. Hasari looks on Max with enormous gratitude. Ram puts the shafts down, has a short coughing fit, spits some phlegm, looks at Max. MAX I hope you're taking something for that. Ram waves him off as Hasari lifts the shafts to his hips. RAM Now, fine, pull, go. Hasari tries to pull, but the center of gravity isn't easy to find. This is enormously difficult and Hasari's very clumsy at it. The street is crowded. The traffic is beginning to back up behind them. The driver and conductor of the tram let fly a tirade of insults. RAM See, mister! What did I tell you? Come on! What do you think this is -- some village street? You've got to move quickly. He turns to Max. RAM You see, it takes a gift. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MAX I say he can do it. I'll bet you the fare he can do it. (play by play) What do you think, rickshaw fans, can he do it? The crowd isn't in for fun. Hasari strains forward. The rickshaw moves with him. Ram moves alongside, shouting instructions and oaths. A cop comes on the run, screaming at Hasai... which makes Ram importune more strongly and Max joke more vociferously. Even under this incredible pressue, Hasari gains confidence and begins to move quicker, earning shouts of approval from Max and Ram, who now has trouble keeping up as they make their way through the maelstrom, an avalanche of oaths following them. 
INT. GODFATHER'S HOUSE - DAY At first all we see are feet on a marble floor. The Goonda's in his running shoes, then Ram and Hasari's bare feet. This is the partitioned splendor of an old house sprinkled with the relics of a grand colonial past. Everything is baroque, rotting and somehow impressive. Hasari has never been anywhere like this, and is caught between curiosity and fear of breathing. 
INT. "THRONE ROOM" The three men enter a large room shuttered from the sun- light -- dusty and packed with a ramshackle assortment of furniture. Two fat blue titmice perch in a cage next to ambitious plaster portrait of Napolean. Sitting behind a desk is Ashoka, leaning over a mirror, squeezing a balky pimple. Near a large window, his 60-year-old father, GHATAK, in a European jacket and dhoti, works with intense concen- tration at repairing a pair of broken glasses with a twist of fine wire. The three new arrivals stand silent and respectful before the desk. At last, without raising his head... ASHOKA Not a tongue between you then? (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: RAM Yes, yes, I am wondering, sir, we are, is it possible you might have something for my friend? Ram indicates Hasari, as if there might be some question to whom he's referring. Ashoka attacks the pimple. RAM Let me explain it for your ears, sir. My cousin from Bihar has just arrived in our city -- GOONDA They've brought a small present -- of respect. The Goonda places a small bundle of rupees on the desk. Ashoka allows himself a disinterested glance at Hasari. ASHOKA So, you want to be a human horse? RAM Oh yes! I have personally witnessed his excellence -- yes. ASHOKA He doesn't talk? Can he neigh at least? (to Hasari) You -- do your ears function? HASARI Oh yes, Babu.    Can I... uhm...? 
ASHOKA Neigh!   Like a horse. Ashoka pulls back his lips, shows his teeth and imitates a neigh: "Ne-igh! Ne-igh!" HASARI Well, yes, Babu, I can do that. Would you like me to imitate a horse? Finished with the pimple, Ashoka wipes a finger on his shirt and takes a helping off a plate of sweetcakes as... 
CONTINUED: RAM Let Hasari go! The line of rickshaw pullers  turns to Hasari. The other pullers wish him well as he  comes forward. His heart pounds; ever so politely, he  helps the School Girl into his carriage. She gives him   the address of the St. Pius School. HASARI I'm sorry, I don't know where that is. You're my very first passenger. SCHOOL GIRL Really.   Well, I hope I bring you luck. She gives him a sweet smile. SCHOOL GIRL That way, and then to the right. His moment has arrived. He looks at Ram... and thrusts his hips forward, setting off into the insanity of the traffic, eyes flicking left and right. A HORN RAILS at him and a taxi tries to run him down, calling and laugh- ing as Hasari jumps in terror. RAM (calling) Feed the police! Other pullers laugh,  call after Hasari... and as he approaches the first  corner, he manages to pull out a rupee and deposit it  into the hand of the impassive traffic policeman and  then turn right. 
EXT. ST. PIUS - DAY The School Girl hands him a slip of paper. SCHOOL GIRL This is my home address. Pick me up promptly at seven each morning. HASARI Yes, thank you, you can depend on me. The girl runs into the school  yard, met immediately by friends. Hasari looks around   at the clean, bustling school, at all the children in  their crisp uniforms and a look of great yearning comes  over his face. 
INT. SMALL RESTAURANT - DAY Max is trying to explain to the waiter what he wants. MAX Beef. You know -- cow? Minced, little salt, pepper, slap it flat like this, throw it on the grill, flip it. Now, though, he just glimpses the shiny gas tank and engine of a motorcycle around the hip of the waiter. He leans out. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Ashoka, astride his motorcycle, GUNNING the ENGINE as a boy runs out of a store with an armload of cassettes. 
WITH MAX AND WAITER MAX Put it on the grill, I'll be right back. 
WITH ASHOKA He pulls the boy's ear, REVS the ENGINE to go... and senses someone close. He turns to find an American hovering at his shoulder. MAX You know, I have to say you really don't look Jewish. I believe that's mine. 
He reaches for the necklace with the Hebrew letter. Ashoka recognizes Max. Looks around for help. There is none. ASHOKA Don't touch me. No one touches me. MAX Really? Max grabs Ashoka... who breaks free, and GUNS the CYCLE down a side street. Max gives chase, his aching ribs slowing him a bit. 
SEVERAL CUTS Ashoka, glancing back, begins to open up some distance. Yet, Max hangs tough, weaving like a broken field runner through the mass of bodies and vehicles. Now, suddenly, he loses Ashoka. He has to make a choice about this corner or that one. He chooses. 
EXT. CITY OF JOY - AROUND CORNER - DAY (EARLY EVENING) A COP steps into his path.   He sees Ashoka up ahead.    He's hopelessly out of breath. MAX Oh... great... good...good timing ...him! 
He can't talk and breathe. He points desperately. The Cop glances where Max points, but he makes no move to give chase. COP May I see your passport? MAX Passport? I'm in the middle of a high speed chase. That guy -- COP Passport please. A crowd has begun to form. In the distance, we see a group of girls carrying cricket equipment COMING AT us. MAX It's in my hotel room. 
COP Passport, please, now. MAX Ready my lips: I do not have my passport with me at this... (he gets it) Ah, I see, said the blind man. The Cop obviously is doing this at Ashoka's behest. Max starts around the Cop. The Cop, however, sticks his club in Max's face; there's fire in Max's eyes... but a hand takes the Cop's stick before Max can make a big mistake. 
EXT. RAM'S HUNT NIGHT - UPSTAIRS Children leaning down as smoke wafts up. We FOLLOW the smoke DOWN TO Max's cigar. Aloka and Amrita laying the food out. Shambu rubbing his father's aching legs as Hasari and Manooj plant the seeds in Hasari's little tea caddy full of earth from home. Max is watching this "family" huddled around the father. 
RAM Another few months, I'll be able to pay off the moneylender in my village and go home and open a grocery shop. All around me sacks overflowing with all kinds of dal and rice, aromatic spices, piles of vegetables... and at night, I'll lie on my back beneath the trees sniffing fresh aubergines. This beautiful picture burrows into Hasari's mind.   For a moment, he goes there -- home, to the village... RAM If my wife will let me come within a hundred miles of the place where she herself resides. Ram laughs, Hasari smiles... 
HASARI Amrita, I saw a beautiful wedding sari today. Amrita is terribly embarrassed. RAM It was six hundred rupees only. He laughs at the impossibility of the price. MAX That's only 40 dollars, isn't it? HASARI If you have it. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MAX I'll send it to you from America when I get home tomorrow. HASARI That's very generous but no, thank you. MAX Repayment for punching you in the nose. HASARI You have repaid me by sharing our supper. 
Joan indicates that Max should let it go.    Hasari ever so carefully waters the tea box. RAM Doctor Big Brother, I myself would be willing to accept a gift. Could you give me five rupees in a note -- ten, perhaps. My ankle is badly swelled; the higher the number the more the swelling sinks. Max has to laugh. MAX I don't have a cent on me.   I'll owe you. RAM How much? 
Now everyone's attentions is taken by a CRY from Shambu, who expels his breath, his terrified eyes directing our attention to... 
ANOTHER ANGLE It's an amazing sight. Two lepers: ANOUAR, bearded with a sharp intelligent, unmarked face, makes his way along on a small wheeled board, at an amazingly fast pace, ahead of SAID, a huge, mute leper. They stop some feet away. Lepers aren't often welcome. Out from behind Said steps Poomina. POOMINA Joan Di, my sister! (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: She sees Max, gasps, throws herself behind Said. Joan looks at Max -- he starts to speak, she points a finger that silences him... JOAN It was Poomina who brought you to us. She has herself and her sister to support. It's all right, Poomina. Anouar, what is it? She moves to them.   They're all three badly out of breath. 
WITH JOAN AND LEPERS 
ANOUAR It's Meeta! It's her time. But something is wrong. The midwives don't know what to do! Dr. Sunil, could he help, perhaps? JOAN Dr. Sunil isn't here. POOMINA Meeta will die. 
ANOTHER ANGLE Joan turns to Max, who hasn't heard the exchange. JOAN Max, I wouldn't ask, but it's an emergency. A pregnancy gone awry. It's a leper. Could you have a look? Max is clearly thrown by the sight of the lepers. MAX I don't have any experience with leprosy. JOAN Good Christ, son, because she's a leper doesn't mean she's not built like a woman! HASARI I can run and get Dr. Sunil. JOAN It's too far. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Suddenly, impulsively... ALOKA I could help.    I've had three babies. RAM You can't do that. They're outcasts, they're unclean. There are murmurs of assent from the others. JOAN Oh nonsense!    It's not contagious! 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Ashoka, with The Goonda and two henchmen, in the b.g. ASHOKA Not working? How will my father eat this evening? HASARI I was just... ASHOKA You have a daughter? HASARI Yes, Babu. MARWARI (O.S.) Rickshaw wallah! Called to work, Hasari starts for his rickshaw, but Ashoka hangs on to his ear for another uncomfortable moment... as he slips a rupee into Hasari's shirt pocket. 
ASHOKA Keep working. Give this to Sister Joan and your friend the doctor when you go home. Now he hands Hasari a sealed envelope and turns his ear loose. Hasari springs toward his passenger. 
INT. EXAMINING ROOM - DAY Max with his stethoscope to Meeta's baby. Meeta in a brightly-colored sari and a lot of bracelets and Aloka looks on. Poomina clings to the wall. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MAX He's just malnourished. Is she giving him the milk we gave her or selling it? Aloka asks Meeta in Hindi. Meeta clearly swears she's giving the baby the milk. Aloka pushes her. ALOKA Not all.     Most. MAX Tell her to give all the milk to the baby. 
Aloka does so as Max bounces the baby, coos to it play- fully. The baby pees all over him. Aloka translates quickly. Meeta starts apologizing. Poomina can't help laughing. Max reminds Meeta that that's once for each of the two weeks of the baby's life. Aloka soothes Meeta as she hustles her, Poomina, and the baby out, then quickly begins to wipe Max's face with a clean rag. This isn't something she's accustomed to doing, but she's doing it before she has time to think. Max finds himself conscious of her closeness to him... and then she becomes suddenly self-conscious and she backs off, ducks her head. He peeks up under. MAX Psst. She looks at him. MAX It's okay. 
He smiles.   So does she. 
EXT. SQUARE - DAY (EARLY EVENING) Sunil stands outside the clinic, rolling his sleeves down. Anouar waits at a polite distance. Exhausted but exhilarated, Max and Aloka emerge with an elderly woman patient, Max singing Chuck Berry to the woman's embar- rassed delight: "They're really rockin' in Boston, in Philadelphia, P.A..." Sunil looks at his American colleague, smiles a small smile. SUNIL Good night, I'll see you day after tomorrow. MAX Good night, Sunil. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: "... Deep in the heart of Texas, around the Frisco Bay..." Manooj and Shambu come charging at Max with the soccer ball, hoping to engage him as a playmate. Hasari returns home with his rickshaw. Selima waves at Max, indicates she's cooking dinner. Joan wanders out of the school as the kids are released and go charging through the square. Joan has the Pal kids in hand. SELIMA Very special supper for you tonight, Doctor Big Brother!   Will you stay? 
MAX Wish I could, Selima,  because I'm sure hungry! Sixteen   hours of pestilence and misery  always make me famished. I have   to go with my man Anouar tonight.   I've got lepers to heal! ANOUAR No, no, you know how patient we are. Eat, eat. MAX (to Aloka) You're not tired, are you? ALOKA Not if you're not. Between Hasari and Aloka, there's just a flicker of tension; evidently, this has become Max's (and her) normal day. But he's also worried about the note from Ashoka. Joan joins them with the Pal children. JOAN Well, I think we've got three very good potential scholars here. Behind the children's backs, she points at Manooj and indicates the kid's really got a head. JOAN Given him some time here, he'll be good enough for a proper school. HASARI It's more than a father could hope. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MAX Fifteen years from now: Miami, Florida, Dr. Manooj Pal, in association with Dr. Maxwell Loeb. For a moment, Hasari is swept up in this little reverie, then remembers reality. HASARI (giving her the note) From the godfather's son. For you and the doctor. Amidst instant concern, Joan opens the envelope.   Looks at Max. We hear the sound of BANGLADESH MUSIC. 
INT. GODFATHER'S "THRONE ROOM" - OLD RADIO - DAY The MUSIC is of days gone by, playing on an old RADIO. Sticks of burning incense send off trails of smoke. The godfather, MR. GHATAK, Looking infirm, wipes a tear from his eye. GHATAK Acha! Now we see   Max and Joan seated on cushions before the godfather,   tea in hand. Max catches a glimpse in an anteroom of   several thugs with several young girls, one of whom is   Poomina. She catches a glimpse of Max as she disappears   past a door. A moment later, her head peeks around the   door frame. She brings her hands together. ASHOKA (O.S.) You! 
EXT. JOAN'S ROOM - KIDS - ABOVE - NIGHT Leaning over, listening, taking in the aroma of... 
INT. JOAN'S ROOM Max's cigar. He sits slightly apart from Joan, Sunil, Aloka, Ram, Hasari, Selima, Margareta, Surya, SALADDIN, ASHISH and Shanta, Aristotle John, MEHBOUB, Anouar, and Said. Hasari is stretched out, Aloka rubbing his screaming legs. Throughout the following, their eyes meet and deflect... SALADDIN The Godfather is at least civilized. The son is vicious. Remember the last elections -- the Molotov coctails, the blows with iron bars. They'll throw us out. We won't be able to find anyone else to rent to us. We'll just have to agree to pay what he wants. MEHBOUB Saladdin's right. Neither nature nor the people with the power have any conscience. We have to pay. A sigh escapes Surya.   He shakes his head.    Eyes flick at him. ASHISH What do you say, Doctor Big Brother? SUNIL I think we must try to break the Godfather's hold on us. 
This is startling and is met with a babble of cautious agreement and dispute. SUNIL Please, hear me out. But I think we have to be very cautious. MAX How the hell do you proceed with caution against these people? You can't. You have to risk everything. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MAX (CONT'D) You try to negotiate with these people, you make compromises with them, they'll eat you alive. Stand up against them now and they'll fold. I guarantee it. Underneath, they're cowards, they got no guts. We show them we're strong and the'll just move on to easier pickings. ASHISH We?   You have an airplane ticket. Still, he's clearly piqued a lot of support. 
SUNIL You know, Max, this is not American gangster television. SALADDIN Yes, if you're wrong, you don't have to be here. MAX I'm not wrong. You bow your heads, you plead with your Gods to do what you won't do yourselves. You put up with this nightmare as if there were no choice. I'm telling you, if you don't stand up to that little pimple face now, he'll own you for the rest of your lives. Everyone stares at him. Many of them want to buy his commitment. There's another large sigh from Surya. Aloka and Hasari's eyes bang off of each other, she silently urging him to speak. He's deeply conflicted and deeply frightened. ANOUAR Even though I am invisible to some of you and I don't have a complete set of legs to stand on, I stand with the Doctor Big Brother. Maybe nature doesn't have a conscience or those with the power, but don't we? Said, the giant mute, mades an unintelligible sound in his throat, but clearly he's agreeing with Anouar. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MARGARETA I agree with Anouar and Max Daddah. I think it's worth the chance. Silence... until Aloka and Hasari's meet again and, out of his terrible fear and conflict, he says very shyly... HASARI Is it permitted to speak? There are quick nods around the room.   With great difficulty, Hasari says his piece. HASARI I want my children to be educated and cared for; this is our home, we have never had such friends. But many of us owe a great debt to the Godfather. He is strong and could kill us... But we must choose. I trust my Big Brother. I say we must stand up. There's still dissension, but somewhat more support. Said makes a fierce, unintelligible supportive sound. Surya sighs again. Eyes flick at the old man. SUNIL Sister Joan, what do you think, really? JOAN Well, I think Max has hit on the heart of what we're trying to build here: a self-help society. Each of us has to decide for himself. As for me, I suppose I think, really, that if the bastards are going to suck us dry, I'd like to get in a couple of good left- handers before I turn the other cheek. SALLADIN But who will rent to us! Surya clucks his tongue and shakes his head; everyone assumes he is preparing a heated refutation of the resisters. His sighs, though, have been a building commitment. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: SURYA I have a property I will    rent you for two hundred rupees a    month, and not a rupee less. As     for protection... you are on    your own. Many of the faces are uncertain -- Hasari's notable among them. 
MONTAGE - INT./EXT. COWSHEDS - DAY A) Two cows are shooed out of the ramshackle building as bustling activity on the new clinic begins. Cleaning the place. Debris being torn out, hurled into a pile in the street. B) Said, with the strength of three men, holds up a heavy beam while Hasari tries to secure it. Max, hot, smelly, and hating the place, stands in the middle of the room, wishing he were elsewhere. The beams starts to slip. Max leaps to Hasari's side. C) We see    that Max and Hasari are thrown together again in some    carpentering task in uneasy camaraderie. A finger    pokes Max on the back. He turns to find Poomina    holding out two cups of tea. D) The whole    group shares a meal, prepared under   the direction    of Selima, though the lepers remain   separate from the    normals. Anouar leads the lepers in    singing a song.     Joan and Margareta pick it up, as do   several other of    the normals. E) Equipment from the old school/clinic being moved from the square down here. 
F) Max and Aloka do one of those dances where two people with arms loaded try to go around each other. Finally he says he'll stand still and she should go around him. They both laugh. Hasari watches. G) As Max puts medicine into a cabinet, Ram peeks in, nods his approval, "helpfully" passes Max something Max can reach just fine himself, shows Max an enormous hole in his shorts and hits Max for ten rupees. H) A small truck carrying a charitable organization's logo on the side is being unloaded of powdered milk and various other things. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: I) UPSTAIRS AND STAIRWELL Hasari and Max    move the last cot upstairs and into place beside a    window that will come into play at the end (It looks    down on the street). Hasari nods to Max, indicating he    should look. J) THEIR POV Everyone gathered as Shanta and Ashish put a banner above the door: "You are invited to the festival of this world and your life is blessed." The assemblage applauds and embraces. K) UPSTAIRS 
Hasari smiles at Max, brings his hands together, but doesn't embrace the doctor. 
EXT. CLINIC - NIGHT Everyone lingers, adults and children. Max plays his trumpet, accompanying Surya on his zither. Manooj hovers over Max. MANOOJ Doctor Big Brother, aren't you going to smoke your evening cigar? Max points at his trumpet, continues playing. MANOOJ Please. Max indicates his pocket. Manooj takes out a cigar and a clip. Clips the cigar, holds it out to Max, who indi- cates Manooj should light it, and keeps playing. Manooj looks at Hasari, who nods. Shambu holds a match to it. Everyone watches as if this were a major event. Manooj takes a puff, chokes, offers the cigar to Mehboub, who takes it, puffs, passes it. Everyone relaxes, enjoys the peacefulness of the smoking and the aroma wafting upward. Ram taps at Max's elbow. RAM It has come to me tonight to write a letter to my wife. Ram produces a mangled one piece letter -- envelope. RAM Please. (CONTINUED) 
ANOTHER ANGLE Max (with Hasari in the b.g., confused, conficted).   Max slings the Goonda against the side of a truck. GOONDA That was a mistake, Doctor. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MAX The mistake's yours, putz. (to Aloka) Get these people inside. Aloka starts forward, leading the lepers. She's stopped by a sudden blow from the Goonda's stick across her shoulders, knocking her to the ground, bleeding from the neck. Hasari bolts for his wife, gets caught up in the melee. Max swings   around on the Goonda and for the first time we realize how   strong he is, and that he knows how to box. The Goonda   goes down and violence erupts. Anouar is chopping at   the legs of one of the thugs working on Said. The massive   Said tears free and starts to beat the crap out of the   two thugs holding him. The noise brings everyone out of the square, those lined up at the clinic, the children from the school. Sunil comes flying out of the clinic. A stampede of those waiting outside the dispensary and those normally in the crowded alley ensues. Shanta runs inside for help. Shopkeepers barricade their shop windows. One of the thugs pours gasoline over Anouar and  lights a match. Hasari kneels beside Aloka when he sees   the match ignite the tiny leper. Without thinking,   Hasari hurls himself on top of Anouar, rolling him in  the dirt and against his own body to put out the flames. Joan shouts, demanding the violence stop. She's hit from behind; she decides talk isn't going to do it. She grabs a piece of lumber and starts to fight. 
ANGLE ON DISPENSARY An EXPLOSION in the doorway, scattering anyone who remains in the area of the dispensary doorway, badly wounding Mehboub. More people with sticks. Hasari goes down under    several bodies. Max reaches Aloka, helps her up, sends    her toward the clinic. He tears an attacker off of Hasari    and they fight back to back a moment. A SECOND EXPLOSION    near them... and through the smoke Max sees... 
ANOTHER ANGLE Ashoka astride his motorcycle, behind his dark glasses, with more thugs, these with Molotov cocktails and pick- axes, ready to raze the clinic and school and the surrounding neighborhood. Sunil drags Mehboub inside. People chant: "White Monkeys, go home! White Monkeys, go home! No lepers here! No lepers here!" The thugs cock their iron bars and bricks and Molotov cocktails. Max picks up an iron bar of his own and starts for Ashoka. Suddenly, there's a DETONATION followed by a BLAST of air so fierce, Max is thrown to the ground. A bottle of GASOLINE has EXPLODED just behind him. He's enveloped in smoke. 
An assailant bears down on Joan with a cutlass. As the assailant is about to strike, Hasari seizes the attacker and hurls him backward. Ashish steps in and slashes the assailant with his own weapon, startling, even repelling Hasari. From all over   the lane, young fighters have come and joined the fray, not   bothering to choose sides but merely enjoying the release.    Hasari lunges for a woman under attack by a boy, arriving   too late to stop the boy from plunging his knife into the   woman's belly. Hasari fights his way to the woman, but   she staggers into the mob. Max knocks down one of the thugs only to have  another hand grasp his shoulder. He turns, fist cocked to   find Poomina, her hands holding her face together. Slowly,   she takes hands away. The sides of her face have been   laid open. Max sweeps her up in his arms, heads for the  clinic. MAX Oh, little girl, little girl... Joan is suddenly beside Ashoka. JOAN We'll pay! All right then, so by all means, protect us! Ashoka raises a hand,   The Goonda blows a whistle, and the fighting stops as   suddenly as it began. The com- batants are breathing   heavily. There is silence but for the groans and cries   of the wounded and grieving. ASHOKA In a world such as ours, everyone needs protection. For the fee we discussed, from this day forward, I can assure you nothing like this will happen again. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: A beat... Saladdin is at Joan's shoulder.     Ashoka points a finger at Hasari. ASHOKA You. I warned you about the company you keep. He REVS his MOTORCYCLE and SCREECHES away, leaving Hasari staring after him in his dust. 
INT. COURTYARD - DAY People peer in through every opening. Mehboub's chest is bandaged. Sunil squeezes through the packed courtyard and hallway, Ashish carrying a wounded woman behind him. Hasari steps into a doorway, us WITH him. 
INT. EXAMINING ROOM - MAX, ALOKA, POOMINA Max, blood crusted on her face, sutures Poomina's awful facial wound as Aloka prepares a compress. ALOKA Will she... Her face, will it... MAX If she's very careful and doesn't do anything to open the wound, the scarring will be minimal. (to Poomina) Do you understand? You can't... You have to stay here. (to Joan) You make her stay here. 
JOAN I'll try. MAX Don't goddamn try, Joan!   Goddamn do it! Poomina peers through her pain at Max, his hands putting her back together. MAX (a litany) I hate this place, I hate this place, I hate this place. Max looks at the doorway and he locks eyes with Hasari. Max breaks the contact. Hasari stares at him as we hear the godfather's MUSIC on the RADIO. 
EXT. GODFATHER'S COURTYARD - HAND AND PENCIL - DAY A hand tap, tap, taps against a ledger. 
COURTYARD Ashoka sits behind a little table, picking absently at his face. The Goonda is slouched near the table, smoking a cigarette and fiddling with a thin switch. (It's dif- ficult for him to show Ashoka the respect his inherited position gives him.) The Goonda has a bruise under one eye from his altercation in the City of Joy yesterday. The air is filled with the MUFFLED SOUNDS OF the STREET. FROM here, we can see the evermore enfeebled godfather in his "throne room," wrapped in a cashmere, listening to the radio. Ashoka looks up, stares impassively at someone. ASHOKA Well.    What have you got to say? 
ANOTHER ANGLE For the first time, we see who Ashoka's speaking to. HASARI I told them that your father provides us with a great deal and that -- Ashoka slams his hand on the register. ASHOKA From this minute, you   are off the list! You will leave    your rickshaw here... where it will   be reserved for a man who deserves   our trust. He stands up.       Hasari is near tears. HASARI Please, Babu, this is as if the ground has opened up. I have to speak to Mr. Ghatak! Hasari starts for the house. The Goonda stops him and, quickly, has Hasari on his knees, his arm twisted pain- fully behind his back. Ashoka jumps at Hasari, grabs his ear. ASHOKA My father's ill! You are speaking to me! (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: We hear the sound of CRACKING NUTS as we MOVE FROM Manooj to three kids we've seen in the neighborhood (two boys Manooj's age and Shoba, who's Shambu's age) and then to Shambu, each kid dipping into the bag in his turn. Finally: Max's (and on the other side of him, Amrita and Poomina.) The bag arrives... empty. MAX (whispering) Thanks, guys. Who wants to go for more peanuts? No one. We're talking about rapt attention.   We hear NUTS CRACKING. Max smiles. 
EXT. STREET - NEAR CITY OF JOY - NIGHT Max and the boys walking home after the movie, the boys dancing around each other, acting out the fight sequences, all of the sword-fighting against Max, who battles them all over the street, in and around cars, Poomina and Amrita looking on shyly, as El Max fights to save their honor. MANOOJ I can't decide if I want to be Kumar Kapur or a doctor. MAX Ha ha! You can be both! Manooj Pal, swashbuckling physician! MANOOJ You're so much fun, El Max. I wish my daddy were as much fun as you. 
Max stops the fight, takes Manooj by the shoulders. MAX I wish my father loved me like your father loves you. Your dad's a very special man. And now, en garde! As the battle continues, the bright beams of a truck come at them. MAX Time out, men. Off the street till this truck passes. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: The kids move toward the wall of the building they're passing, but the truck seems to turn toward them, seem- ing not to intend to pass, but to hit them. The look on Max's face lets us know he senses something terrible is in the offing here. He shouts for the kids to get out of the way, shoving the kids closest to him into a doorway. He turns to Shambu, who's behind him, calls to him. But in a panic, Shambu doesn't move into the shelter   of the building on his right... but tries to run across   the street. Max leaps for the little boy too late... as    the truck just misses Max and clips Shambu hard, sending   the little boy flying. 
EXT. SQUARE - NIGHT Manooj runs   ahead of everyone as he charges into Ram's hut, crying   for his father. Behind Manooj come the others, Max   carrying Shambu in his arms. Hasari and Aloka, Ram,   Joan, others in the square hurtle out of their huts. MAX I can't do anything here. He's got a compound fracture, he hemorrhaging. We've got to get to a hospital -- now! JOAN You'll never get a taxi at this hour. 
EXT STREET - HASARI'S FEET - DAY (EARLY EVENING) He pounds along,  the wheels wobbling and squeaking, urging people out  of his way. Max runs alongside Hasari. Aloka sits on the  seat with Shambu, whose quiet moaning fills her ears.   Blood drips down the rickshaw. 
EXT. PARK STREET - FROM THE RICKSHAW - DAY Several taxis waiting for clients outside a row of restaurants. Hasari and Aloka watch as Max argues with the drivers. They won't take a bleeding passenger. 
SAME STREET - MOMENTS LATER The race to the hospital continues. 
EXT. MEDWAR PINE MEMORIAL HOSPITAL - NIGHT The arrive at the gates of the huge, Victorian hospital. People sleep outside the gates. 
INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - SIDE ROOM - DAY The wards are full, as are the corridors. Patients on beds and stretchers everywhere. Most have at least one member of their family to look over them. In a side room, Max is arguing with a porter who tells him he can't help him.  Max slaps some rupees into the porter's hand, tells him to take him to the person in charge. Shambu is fading. Aloka smooths the sweat from his brow, trying to keep Shambu alive by force of will and love. Then Max is back, standing over her with another man. It may take a moment before we recognize the ATTENDANT from the Blood Bank. MAX They'll admit him, but we have to pay for the blood. I gave him all I had. He wants more. Do you have anything? ALOKA Sister Joan gave me this. Aloka holds out a fistful of rupees. The Attendant blows through his lips, indicating it's a paltry sum. Max grabs the money and shoves it at the Attendant. MAX We haven't got any more! The Attendant doesn't move... until he sees Max is about to explode. MAX If this child dies while you stand here, I'll kill you. The Attendant is smart enough not to push any further. MAX Now, I need an X-ray room and I need an O.R. nurse. ATTENDANT Not possible. You can't give care, you're an American. You must be an Indian doctor. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MAX Then take me to one! As Max takes flight with the Attendant, Aloka strokes Shambu and Hasari hovers. We CLOSE IN ON Shambu's inanimate face and HOLD a moment. 
ANOTHER ANGLE Max hurtles down the corridor with a young INTERN in tow. Almost a kid, he's been up for days. But he's going to help. INTERN This way, please. Max scoops Shambu up and rushes down the corridor behind the Intern, leaving Hasari and Aloka looking after him. His arm comes around her shoulders. 
CONTINUED: The Godfather stares at Hasari, flicks his eyes at Max. Waits. HASARI When you gave me work, I swore I would be as your youngest brother. Your son thinks I have been disloyal. He took my rickshaw. With my friend, I have remade this one. I beg you to let me go again onto the streets. I have my family. The old man looks at the rickshaw, at the obvious care that went into its renovation, at this unlikely team of refurbishers. He reaches a shaking  hand out toward a shaft. Hasari brings it close. The   old man rubs the shaft. GHATAK It is very beautiful. HASARI Thank you, Babu. GHATAK If I may say, it has an allure. HASARI An allure, Babu -- thank you. The Godfather stares at Hasari, then at Max. GHATAK The world is chaos. We struggle to build something permanent, then our bodies betray us, our sons betray us. (to Hasari now) Yes, you may take your rickshaw out. If you can face up to my son. The Goonda gets back into the car and the car pulls away and we are left with Hasari and Max as moment. 
EXT. SKELETON WAREHOUSE (MITRA & CO) - DAY Hasari enters. 
INT. MANAGER'S OFFICE - DAY The manager stares at Hasari, as he consumes a pot of rice and vegetable curry. Gangooly hovers like a crow. Hasari stares at the contract before him. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: HASARI If a man dies and he's not burned, what do you think becomes of his soul? The manager turns his palms up, continues chewing. Hasari stares through the window at the row of skeletons. HASARI I must provide for my family. GANGOOLY Oh, it's a noble fate. If indeed your wheel ceases to turn, you will help educate somewhere in this great world a fine doctor. Hasari bends to the contract and laboriously signs his name. 
EXT. GODFATHER'S HOUSE - DAY Hasari arrives to an outcry of anger. There are several dozen rickshaws. Among the passersby, we see umbrellas, as the people on the street try to combat the incredible heat. HASARI What's going on? CHOMOTKAR The Godfather ill! The son is raising the rent! Ashoka is on his front steps with a loudspeaker before a growing crowd of pullers. He's backed up by the Goonda and a dozen of his thugs. The loudspeaker lifts Ashoka's voice above the anger. ASHOKA Do you know how much it costs to change the spoke in a wheel? Or how much baksheesh I have to pay the police? Impulsively, Hasari moves forward. Cries from pullers: "Who will be the victims of this madness? You?" "Hell no!" "You don't need the six rupees each old crate brings you per day to fill your belly! For us, it means death!" The street is so packed with rickshaw and pullers now that cars can't get through. A chorus of HORNS HONK; drivers scream. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: RAMATULLAH We haven't been breaking our backs between the shafts of our rickshaws in order to weep for you! Hasari continues forward, his eyes on Ashoka. CHOMOTKAR The only thing that matters is the bundle of rupees we take to the munshi each month to feed and to answer the daily needs of our children! 
RASSOUL steps up on a telagarhi with a loudspeaker. RASSOUL Listn to me! Listen now! Listen to me! (when the pullers quiet) Friends! I ask you to vote for an unlimited strike. Inkalabad zindabad! Long live the revolution! Rickshaw Workers Union zindabad! A strike? No income at all? The slogan is taken up by a small percentage of the assemblage. Fear and doubt on many faces. ASHOKA That's what I thought. All right, get to work! Customers are waiting! 
ON HASARI Something detonates in him and he jumps onto the tela- garhi and grabs the microphone from Ashoka. Police arrive in vans. HASARI Friends! The Godfather at least is a caring man! This one, though, the son -- A signal from Ashoka and one of the thugs knocks Hasari down. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: ASHOKA We helped this man! We gave  him a job, a place to live! This  is how he shows his gratitude.  Get on the streets now! Or turn  in your machines! Hasari gets up and tries to speak. HASARI Friends -- don't! If we stand -- He gets hit again. A number of the pullers come forward and a riot starts. The police move in, beat and arrest many of the demonstrators. Ramatullah and Chomotkar try to help Hasari, but they are descended on by cops who hurl them aside and beat Hasari senseless until the: SCREEN GOES BLACK. 
FADE IN: INT. BONSAL COURT - DAY Birds flying  below ceiling. The room has a barred cage running all  around its edge; the cage is filled to near overflowing.   Hasari stands before the JUDGE, his face covered with  blood, his body a mass of aches and welts. At the back  of the room, Max and Aloka; elsewhere, Ashoka, the  Goonda, and several of his thugs. HASARI The life of a rickshaw puller is not one a man would choose if he had a choice. Our feet blister and burn up from the boiling asphalt, our noses burn from the fumes of countless motor cars and buses, our backs curve permanently from the loads we carry hour after hour, day after day. But I am proud to be one of the human horses who carry my countryman from place to place and I am thankful for the opportunity to make a living. But I will not keep silent anymore and I will not be cheated and threatened anymore. Life is hard enough. No more. Ramatullah starts to applaud.   Rassoul follows suit. The Judge bangs his gavel. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: JUDGE Silence! (when it's silent) This man will be permitted to use his rickshaw without let or hindrance. And I will make a restraining order against Mr. Ghatak. Cheers from the pullers.   The Judge bangs his gavel. JUDGE I haven't finished these proceedings. For his part in this disturbance, I fine the defendant 50 rupees. HASARI Fifty rupees, Your Honor? That's -- JUDGE Pay at this time or spend seven days in jail! Seven days in jail will cost him far more than fifty rupees. As he reaches into his pocket for his screw of money, a hand suddenly protrudes into the cage through the bars. RAMATULLAH Hasari! And now another hand with several rupees reaches through. RASSOUL Hasari! Now a dozen voices call his name and a  dozen hands reach through the bars with rupees clutched  in their fists and press the money into Hasari's hands.   The Judge, Max and Aloka, and certainly Ashoka watch this  in amazement. The Judge bangs his gavel. Max turns, shoots a little finger gun and winks at Ashoka. 
CLOSE ON ASHOKA ON his face, we see pure hatred for these two men. 
INT. COURTYARD - NIGHT He bangs on Joan's door. She opens the door in her Indian pajamas. One look at him... JOAN What's happened? MAX Ashoka ordered me to go home. Well, I've come home. 
A beat. She steps aside, he steps in, and the door closes him safely inside. 
EXT. PARK CIRCUS - DAY The rickshaw station. The  rain pours down. People clambor for rickshaws. The  line moves forward as fast as the pullers can take on passengers. Hasari, Ram, Ramatullah, Chomotkar look at the stalled buses, the streetcars, the taxis, the private cars. CHOMOTKAR What a joy it is to survey this disaster! We will all make a fortune! (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: HASARI The monsoon is the great Durga's gift to the human horse! Hasari glances at Ram, who isn't a part of the joking. HASARI What's the matter? RAM I'm wet and I'm cold. Your daughter is getting married. Time is passing. I want to go home to my wife. 
Chomotkar touches Hasari, nods across the street.   There, we see the Goonda and two thugs. RAMATULLAH Hasari! It's Hasari's turn.   He can't stay to talk with Ram now. He has to go. MARWARI #4 How much to the market? HASARI Eight rupees. MARWARI #4 What!   I won't pay it! HASARI Who else needs a ride?       I am available at a price! 
Several others crowd and shove toward him. MARWARI #4 No!   Take me -- I'll pay, let's go! HASARI The price just went up!       Ten rupees! In advance. The Marwari hesitates only as long as it takes him to dig in his soaking wet pants and to slap the bills into Hasari's hand and climb aboard. Hasari sets out with great difficulty -- and greater determination -- through the floodwaters, flicking his eyes at the Goonda as he goes. 
EXT. WEDDING SHOP - DAY Water  pours down. FROM HERE we see Hasari inside, putting money  down in front of the shop owner and then hustling back  into the rain and taking up his shafts. We WATCH the owner  look after him with a touch of disdain as he comes into  the window and takes down the beautiful green and gold  sari. 
EXT. CLINIC - GUTTERS - NIGHT Water pouring from above; the gutters overflow with refuse. We PAN UP to the clinic. 
INT. CLINIC COURTYARD 
Water pouring off the room into the courtyard. Hasari locks his rickshaw into the shed and turns out, attention to Max, Aloka, Joan, Poomina, Margareta, Mehboub, several others trying to patch leaking roof tiles and keep supplies high and dry. 
INT. CLINIC ROOM Hasari enters. Max looks at him, doesn't like the look of the obviously exhausted man. HASARI How can I help? 
EXT. CIRCULAR ROAD - FISTFUL OF RUPEES (RUNNING MONTAGE) - DAY An Anglo couple jockeying for preference. Hasari selects them from a crowd. This is the beginning of RUNNING MONTAGE. A)   He runs AT us from different directions with riders -- pushing, pushing -- the water getting higher, our FOCUS VARIOUSLY IN NORMAL AND SLOW MOTION ON his feet, his tensed muscles; for a moment, we hear only his breathing, the sound of his feet on the pavement, the RAIN AGAINST the CANOPY of the rickshaw. B)   He drags up with an entire, well-to-do family of six, packed into the rickshaw. C)   He stumbles to a stop outside the emergency entrance to the hospital, carrying a mother and her sick child. (CONTINUED) 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Manubai and Ravi, their car parked at the entryway to the clinic. A big puddle separates them. MAX I'd throw my cape down, but I'm all out of dry capes. He sloshes through the water to them, wiping his muddy hands on his pants. He offers a semi-clean hand to each in turn. MAX It's very nice to see you.   Both of you. RAVI We heard you were still here. Vijay wanted to send some things. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: She indicates the car, which is packed with dry food and such. MAX Shall we unload the car? RAVI Yes, yes, by all means. Max whistles, indicates the car. People come and start unloading it, Ravi showing the way, leaving Max and Manubai alone a moment, Aloka flicking her eyes at the two of them. MANUBAI I'm surprised. I really didn't think you'd stick it out. MAX People grow older; sometimes they even grow up. He smiles a sweet smile at her.    She smiles back at him. 
EXT. MUD BANK - WIDE SHOT - DAY Anouar on Said's shoulders. The big mute runs, followed by Hasari and a phalanx of rickshaw pullers: Chomotkar, Rassoul, Ramatullah-Joan, Aloka, Manooj, several others in the rickshaws, Max and Sunil, each with his doctor bag -- all of them running in silhouette along the embankment in the rain. ARISTOTLE JOHN Where can we take them? We can't take them back to the clinic. No one will put up with it. SALADDIN We can't let them drown, can we? Eh, Max Daddah? 
EXT. LEPER COLONY - DAY The leper colony is submerged. The parents have put their children on the roofs and the relatively able- bodied lepers are piling charpoys one on top of another to protect the sick and the infirm. Meeta and her baby are on a roof. The mud bank is too slippery to get the rickshaws down and back up. HASARI It's too deep! (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: A beat. EXT. LEPER COLONY - PAIR MUDDY, PARTIAL HANDS - SAME DAY - SOME MINUTES LATER A leper clings to a rope as several of the human horses pull him and others up the mud bank. 
ANOTHER ANGLE Max, Hasari, Rassoul, and Chomotkar up to their necks in water; Hasari and Rassoul have a door on their shoulders; on top of the door, a sick leper woman. Max is lifting one child, then another onto the door. The two pullers make their way slowly toward the mud bank. 
ON MUD BANK Aloka, Joan, helping lepers into rickshaw. MEETA Anouar! ANOUAR Max Daddah! 
ON MEETA AND BABY The hut starts to come apart under them. Max and Chomotkar quickly move to the house with another door. MAX We're here!   We're here! Chomotkar holds the door up as Meeta holds the baby out in the direction of Max's voice. Max catches the baby as the house slips down, then grabs Meeta, who clings to him. 
EXT. MUD BANK - DAY Hasari pulling the lead rickshaw. Anouar on Max's shoulders, the two of them leading a terrible ensemble version of "Hound Dog." An air of festivity among lepers and rescuers. They come to a bridge made of two planks over rushing water. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Several rickshaws go across but as Max and Anouar start over, suddenly the ground gives way beneath Max's feet. Anouar falls free; someone grabs him; but a blackish stream rushes into Max's mouth and in an instant he's swept beneath the gurgling filth. The density of the filth makes his effort to surface ineffective. It looks for all the world like he's going to drown. 
ON OTHERS Max has disappeared. Instinctively, Hasari dives into the maelstrom. He, too, disappears. After some moments, Hasari surfaces, spitting the filth out of his mouth. He dives again, comes up somewhere else. Dives a third time. Is down. Is down. Is down. Then suddenly bursts out of the filth, dragging the unconscious form of Max Loeb into the air. More people have gathered. Cries of: OTHERS It's the doctor. Save Doctor Big Brother! Aloka passes a baby to someone and helps Hasari push Max up onto the bank. But now Hasari doesn't know what to do and turns to his wife. Aloka quickly clears Max's mouth and begins to admin- ister mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. She blows, she breathes; she blows, she breathes. People crowd in. Aloka blows, she breathes. It seems, though, that by his stillness and by the looks on people's faces that Max is dead. Yet, more determined still, Aloka goes on; blows, breathes... 
CONTINUED: MAX Why? ASHOKA My father was weak. He let you and your European friend give these little people ideas. It's over. MAX You can't do this! He takes no more than a step at Ashoka, a hand coming up, when he's hit hard from behind. Goes to his knees. 
MAX Jesus Christ. His hand comes away from the back of his head with blood. He tries to rise and is hit again. HASARI (to the kids) Get back! Stay back! ASHOKA No, no, come forward.   Come. Ashoka glides toward the petrified Amrita. The Goonda remains unmoving, watchful. Ashoka puts out his hand with its rings, and strokes Amrita's cheek. ASHOKA What a little woman already, hey? HASARI Please, don't touch her, Babu. ASHOKA What did you say? HASARI I said, Please, don't touch her. Hasari glances over his shoulder, his eyes bouncing off the Goonda's impassive face. Now, the knife comes out of Ashoka's pocket, snaps open, glints in the light. ASHOKA She's going to give someone a lot of enjoyment. Yes. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: There's a moment of unbearable tension as everyone, in- cluding the Goonda, realizes this man is out of control. ASHOKA (to the Goonda) He said 'please' didn't he? 'Please, don't touch her?' The Goonda stares at Ashoka... And now Ashoka reaches out and we FOLLOW CLOSE on his hand as it moves ever so slowly through space to settle on Amrita's breast. And now Hasari explodes. He hits Ashoka. A hard punch to the chest. Ashoka stumbles and falls to one knee. 
The Two Thugs make    a move to come to his rescue... but a curious thing stops    them: the Goonda's arm, outstretched across their path,    his eyes alerting them not to proceed. Max lurches to his    feet unsteadily. ASHOKA Bhose, help me! Hasari unloads a punch into Ashoka's face; Ashoka's nose pours blood; he starts to whimper. He clutches Hasari hard to him. Holds him. Hasari struggles, slams his palm into Ashoka's chin, sending Ashoka to the ground, sending the knife skidding across the ground. Hasari grabs the knife, straddles Ashoka, about to kill. But he can't do it. HASARI Life is hard enough.     No more. Leave us alone. Hasari backs off, leans against a wall, stares down at Ashoka, his hands in tight against his body. Manooj and Shambu stare at their father in awe. Shambu sees something on the ground where the first blow was delivered to Ashoka's chest. Everyone has moved slightly to one side. He bends and closes his fist around something. The Goonda steps between Ashoka and Max and Hasari. GOONDA You won't be bothered again. A look from the Goonda and the Thugs vanish, leaving Ashoka cowering in a doorway on his knees. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Shutters start to open, people begin   to appear again in doorways and windows. Fearing for his life, Ashoka suddenly   bolts. Max is fixed on Hasari. He lets up a    scream of exulta- tion, his hand going out for a "five"   from Hasari. The kids charge toward Hasari. Then everyone freezes. Hasari lists to his right side and blood starts to pour from the knife wound in his abdomen under his pressing arm. 
EXT. MAX'S ROOM - UPSTAIRS BALCONY - NIGHT 
From here we can see Hasari on Max's cot under "The Raft of the Medusa" in the little room overlooking the street. Out here, the two doctors are alone. MAX Why don't you go on home.   I'll stay with him. Sunil nods. Max grips Sunil's hand strongly. Sunil goes down the steps. Max moves to Hasari's bedside. He watches Hasari breathing. He looks up at "The Raft of the Medusa." 
INT. MAX'S ROOM - NIGHT (SEVERAL HOURS LATER) A thin stream of dawn light coming through the half- closed shutters. 
FROM HERE - THE BALCONY Through the open door, we can just see Joan, praying quietly. Close around her, Anouar, Meeta, Surya, Marga- reta, Poomina... 
THE ROOM Beneath "The Raft of the Medusa," Hasari Pal speaks to his family and Max, Aloka sitting close to the bed, the Children on the bed beside their father, and Max standing close. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: HASARI A man's journey to the end of his obligations is a very long road. And you have to remember that you can never give up. We pray that life will bless us, that we will be kings, with possessions and money that we can rule over all around us. But it's a mist; the only thing that makes it possible to endure life is our love, one for the other. A beat, the family and Max tightly bound together.   And now we hear the dim sounds of RICKSHAW BELLS. 
HASARI I was dreaming the sound of rickshaw bells, and now I hear them. Max opens the windows.   Manooj helps his father sit up. 
