CLIFFHANGER 
Written by 
Michael France 
EXT. MOUNTAIN RANGE - HELICOPTER SHOT - DAY 
An unparalleled set of sheer mountains -- part of the Colorado Rockies. The peaks rise a challenging half mile and more out of the valley -- wind-whipped snow mists over the mountains like a low fog. The tranquility is broken as a helicopter BLASTS into view, fighting the wind as it heads for the center of it all. 
Our CREDITS fly us past and through this magnificent range. There are sky-piercing peaks that slope up to a narrow, high pinnacle -- and others that are steel, straight-up approaches to large plateaus. One of the mountains has a crystal lake on top -- with a waterfall that drains from it and exits from the middle of a mountain wall. Nearby, an abandoned cable ladder is bolted into the same wall, leading to the top. 
BACK IN THE HELICOPTER 
We can see a man sitting in its doorway, looking out -- 
INT/EXT HELICOPTER - BINOCULAR POV 
The glasses scan systematically, slowly -- to us, it looks like nothing more than a field of gray and white. 
FRANK (O.S.) Nothing yet. 
EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - LONG SHOT 
The helicopter now circles this tallest mountain -- "The Tower", separated from a lower but equally formidable peak by a chasm of two hundred feet -- that drops 3,500 feet below. 
INSIDE HELICOPTER - FRANK AND MAGGIE 
Spotter FRANK NEWELL (50s) scans the mountain wall.  MAGGIE DEIGHAN (30s) expertly pilots the helicopter through the storm winds. Both wear orange jackets identifying themselves as members of the Rocky Mountain Park Rescue Team. 
FRANK Wait a minute -- there's Hal. (beat) And his date. 
BINOCULAR POV - A LEDGE 
that's part of the smaller peak. HAL TUCKER (30s) and his "date", SUSAN COLLINS (20s), are decked out in climbing gear. Hal's aplomb suggests he's a veteran climber -- Susan's worried look shows she isn't. Hal and Susan huddle together, both cold, but okay. Hal has a makeshift splint wrapped around his lower leg, and a slow burning flare in one hand. 
INSIDE HELICOPTER 
Frank lowers his glasses -- Maggie struggles with the wind. 
MAGGIE How do they look? 
BINOCULAR POV - HAL AND SUSAN 
Hal, now aware of the copter, looks towards it, smiling -- and starts jerking off the flare. 
FRANK (O.S.) He's signalling "okay." 
MAGGIE (O.S.) Where's Gabe? 
The POV dips down -- there's somebody climbing below, in an orange rescue jacket. 
FRANK (O.S.) Right where he's supposed to be. 
CLOSER ON THE CLIMBER 
This is GABE WALKER (30s). In spite of the cold and the snow, he's fearlessly, swiftly scaling the tower without safety lines, as if he's done it a hundred times. That's because he has done it a hundred times. This is what Gabe lives for. 
ON THE LEDGE 
Gabe, almost there, finds a fingertip-width handhold at arm's length -- grabbing it, he pulls himself up on the ledge with a move that's just a little tougher than chinning yourself on a doorjamb. Winded, Gabe slumps down next to the couple, and tries to light a cigarette. The lighter only sparks. 
HAL Excuse me -- I know you're my salvation, and all -- do you think you could rescue us before your smoke break? 
Hal pulls out a box of wooden matches and lights one Bogart style, one-handed with a thumbnail, cupping a hand to shield it against the wind. Gabe bends down for it -- a familiar routine. We know in a glance they've been friends for years. 
GABE Maybe you could tell me why I am rescuing you. 
HAL Basically -- I've fallen down, and I can't get up... 
GABE (into radio) Rescue One -- have located helpless climber, please prepare idiot line for transport, over -- 
THE HELICOPTER dips down towards the ledge -- no way can it land there. Frank lowers a rescue wire to 
GABE 
who precariously swings out from the ledge to grab it -- the wire is just out of reach. Hal grabs the radio. 
HAL Rescue One -- please remind me to tell you about the time I hauled your hero here down Mt. Huntington on my back, over -- 
MAGGIE (O.S.) (through radio) Hal, if I hear that story one more time, I'm making you limp down the entire three thousand feet, over -- 
Gabe finally grabs the line, secures it to a heavy piton, and hammers it into the wall. 
GABE (to Susan) This guy showing you a good time? 
THE HELICOPTER 
swings over across to the facing mountain -- Maggie lands the copter, in spite of the winds, on a small plateau. Frank gets out to secure the wire -- there's now a lifeline spanning the chasm. 
ON THE LEDGE 
Gabe finishes anchoring the line in the rock -- he extinguishes his cigarette in the snow, and naturally, pockets the butt. Hal, propped up against the wall, expertly rigs a seat harness around his legs -- Susan helps him get part of it around his splint, and Gabe clips it to the line. 
GABE Now, remember -- keep your arms and legs within the vehicle at all times -- 
HAL (laughing) Fuck you -- 
With that, Hal pulls himself hand-over-hand across the sloping line -- Hal makes a point of looking down -- 
HAL'S POV -- THE DROP 
is vertigo defined. Thirty five hundred feet straight down. You could stack the World Trade Center towers on top of each other and they'd still be shorter than this mountain is high. However -- 
HAL 
lets go of the overhead line and claps his hands to his face in mock horror -- he quickly whizzes down the last thirty feet of the line, where Frank catches him and pulls him out. Hal gets out of the harness, checks every stitch of it, signals thumbs-up, and sends it back. 
GABE 
deliberately lets go of the main line and launches himself at Susan -- 
THEIR HANDS 
miss -- 
ANGLE ON BOTH 
Gabe's three foot safety line pulls taut, testing the limits of the line above as it yanks him back -- 
GABE'S POV - SUSAN 
is just out of reach -- her hand is still stretched out, her eyes still locked on 
GABE 
who can only look down, swaying helplessly on the wire as Susan's SCREAM starts -- 
ON THE OPPOSITE SIDE 
Frank and Maggie look down in horror, but neither look as anguished as Hal -- 
LONG SHOT - SUSAN 
falling -- falling -- falling -- looking very small against the vast mountain range -- 
SUSAN'S POV - FALLING 
from this height takes the longest nineteen seconds you can imagine -- 
GABE 
twists from his safety line, spinning helplessly -- he wants to, but can't, shut his eyes -- 
GABE'S POV - THE CHASM 
Susan is gone. Her SCREAM, cut short, echoes -- the "safety" harness spirals down after her like a carefree bird -- 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT/EXT SMALL AIRLINER - GABE'S POV OUT WINDOW - DAY 
As the plane dips to land, Gabe can see a bird circling far below, over the same mountainous terrain. 
INT. SMALL AIRLINER - GABE 
sweating, panting, awake. It hasn't been that long since the accident -- a year, to be exact -- but he looks older. He looks as if he's watched Susan Collins drop at least one hundred times. Gabe reels himself in as a STEWARDESS hands him a glass of water. 
STEWARDESS Take this. (Gabe does) Afraid of flying? 
Gabe shakes his head. 
GABE Falling. 
INT. TERMINAL - DAY 
Gabe, with no luggage, is at the small airport's only car rental counter, doing the paperwork for a RENTAL AGENT. 
RENTAL AGENT Midsize? 
GABE Any size, any color, any model. 
RENTAL AGENT How long will you be needing it? 
GABE (flat) Just under six hours. 
MAGGIE (O.S.) You aren't wasting any time, are you? 
Gabe turns and looks at 
MAGGIE 
who is standing off to the side. 
MAGGIE I knew you'd be coming by. Today. 
Gabe's happy to see her -- but at the same time, he isn't. She looks too good -- and she brings up quite a mixed bag of memories. Maggie carves on a smile. 
MAGGIE If you're in that much of a hurry, why don't you ride with me? 
INT. RESCUE HELICOPTER - DAY 
Maggie pilots the copter, heading out toward the mountain range. Gabe fiddles with some of the equipment inside. Both grope for a way to start the conversation. 
GABE This is new... 
MAGGIE It's a thermal scope -- picks up body heat of lost hikers -- 
Gabe flicks it on, looks at the total absence of heat as they fly over the snow. 
GABE Still find the dead ones the old fashioned way, I guess. 
So much for small talk. Gabe is clearly uneasy watching these mountains go by. Maggie breaks an awkward silence -- 
MAGGIE You could have said goodbye. 
GABE (shakes head) If I did, I'd have to listen to you tell me one more time that it wasn't my fault. 
MAGGIE (angry) Today -- especially today -- you get to hear it again. The harness clip broke.  Cold stress -- one in a million equipment failure. You and Hal could have checked it from then till now and it still would have happened. (beat) You did everything right -- 
GABE -- If I did everything right, Susan Collins would still be alive. 
THE HELICOPTER 
whizzes on to the Ranger station -- a small building by an old country road. Not much activity outside of some ROOKIE CLIMBERS working out on a CLIMBING PRACTICE WALL. Maggie starts to land the copter, and as she does -- 
MATHESON We got word that somebody's been observing your currency shipments -- this load, the $5,000s -- over the last three deliveries. 
TRAVERS (laughs) There isn't a hell of a lot anyone can do but observe. (beat) This is the most protected shipment we've got -- and the most useless for a thief. Those bills aren't in circulation. You think five thousand dollar bills are easy to pass? Who the fuck would try? 
Matheson hands Travers a folder. 
MATHESON This guy might. 
We look over Travers' shoulder at the photos, which are all blurry, all blown up from different surveillance pictures -- and all of them show ERIC QUALEN. 
TRAVERS Who is he? 
MATHERS (patient) His name's Eric Qualen. One of the East German spies who got shut out by the reunification. The CIA issued an inter-agency warning about him right after the wall came down. He's got nowhere to go and nothing to lose. He's also got the international connections to get rid of bills like these -- and he's probably desperate enough to try for them. Fifty million bucks buys a lot of sanctuary. 
TRAVERS Could you get to the part where I'm supposed to care? 
MATHESON (shows him more photos) We had two agents monitoring him. These two -- Gleason and Quinones. Their last report said he was going to try to take this shipment. 
TRAVERS (turning away) Thanks for the tip. But I've got work to do. 
MATHESON (stopping him) Did I say "last" report? I think I did. I mean last fucking report. These guys have vanished. 
TRAVERS You have my sympathy, but -- (exasperated) There's a reason we do things this way, all right? Armored cars can be hijacked. Trains can be derailed. But nobody can get to us in flight. The only time this is on the ground is at the mint, or on the Presidio runway in San Francisco. Either way, someone would have to shoot his way past a couple of thousand guards. 
Matheson still isn't convinced. 
TRAVERS If you're worried about an inside job, forget it. I checked the plane from top to bottom an hour ago. And these three are my best against. Even if one of them did go skydiving, they wouldn't get far. Each case has an electronic tracer with a range of one hundred miles. 
Travers pulls a tracking device about the size of a watchman out of his jacket pocket. The small screen shows three red blips at rest -- matching the three currency cases. 
TRAVERS (facing down Matheson) I haven't lost a bill in eight years. And I'm not scrubbing this shipment because you scare easily. 
MATHESON (an easy smile) Who said anything about stopping the shipment? (beat) I've been tracking Qualen for almost a year. If he pulls something, I want to be in on the party. 
Travers, angry, turns to Wright. Wright clearly doesn't like this either, but is resigned to it. 
WRIGHT This is cleared from the top, Travers. Matheson will accompany you on the flight to San Francisco. (beat) Show him every professional courtesy. 
Travers turns back to a smiling Matheson, looking like he'd rather kill him instead, as we -- 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MOUNTAIN RANGE - MAGGIE'S HELICOPTER 
is being buffeted by storm winds and a light snow -- Maggie struggles hard with the controls, but -- 
INSIDE HELICOPTER 
Visibility is near zero. Maggie keys the radio. 
MAGGIE Rescue One to base, over. 
HAL (O.S.) Rescue One -- have you sighted them? Over -- 
MAGGIE Negative, Hal -- storm's already moving in -- I can't see them, and winds are too strong to stay up here -- over -- 
HAL (O.S.) Rescue One -- abort. They'll be all right. Brett and Evan are dumb enough not to log in, but they're smart enough to have storm gear. Head back to base. (not unkindly) Maybe you can catch Gabe before he leaves. Over. 
MAGGIE I don't think he's planning a long visit, Hal. (back to business) Rescue One heading back to base, over and out. 
THE HELICOPTER 
banks a 180 to fly back -- we can see over the horizon that the storm is moving in fast. 
INT. CAVE - DAY 
We can hear Maggie's helicopter flying off overhead -- camped inside the cave are BRETT and EVAN, both 20s, both shivering, amid their gear -- backpacks, cooking stuff -- and parachutes. These are Colorado rock jocks -- thrillseekers who'll try anything if the odds are strong enough they'll die in the process. 
EVAN (freezing) Way to check the weather, Brett. 
BRETT (shivering yet macho) Hey. If it were easy, it wouldn't be worth d-doing. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. TREASURY JET (DC-9) - DAY 
The DC-9 cruises over increasingly mountainous, remote terrain. 
INT. JET - CLOSE ON TRAVERS 
who looks tense -- we MOVE AROUND the cabin and find two more relaxed Treasury agents are dozing on the opposite side of the plane, their arms chained to the currency cases. Matheson is edgy. Another AGENT offers some condescending reassurance. 
AGENT Just enjoy the view, huh? (Matheson says nothing) Relax. I mean, what could happen in the air? 
Matheson turns back to his window and looks down -- 
WINDOW POV - THE GROUND BELOW 
is covered with snow -- the jet's shadow moves sleekly and plainly over it. But after a moment we see -- -- another jet's shadow on the ground, coming up fast! 
INSIDE THE DC-9 - MATHESON 
reacts this and shifts his look upward to -- 
WINDOW POV - ANOTHER PLANE (GULFSTREAM) 
is flying a parallel course to the Treasury jet, and is just one hundred yards away. Close enough to see Eric Qualen's face in one of the windows. 
INSIDE THE PLANE 
Matheson stands -- Travers has noticed the plane by now too, and gets out of his seat as the other agents react. 
TRAVERS (to other agents) Stay put! Don't panic, goddammit! 
Travers moves into 
THE COCKPIT 
Ice, building in a small crevase, builds and CRACKS the adjoining rock -- several ten-pound boulders fall, causing a chain reaction 
ROCKSLIDE 
that bounces down the wall -- 
GABE 
hugs the ice wall, making himself as flat as possible -- 
GABE (shouting down) Rockslide! 
HAL 
flattens too as rocks bounce past -- the second anchoring piton LOOSENS as it is struck by a falling rock -- Hal nervously eyes the last piton between him and Gabe -- 
THE PITON - CLOSE 
also has been clipped by the still falling boulders and droops at half mast -- no way are these going to hold in the unreliable ice -- 
HAL 
tries to stay flat, but one boulder painfully CLIPS him on the shoulder, knocking him from his perch -- Hal falls -- 
WIDER - HAL FALLING 
In falling, Hal's weight on the rope yanks out the nearest anchor piton -- Hal tumbles in space, keeping pace with the boulders, as -- 
GABE 
who's seen everything we have, quickly reaches to the piton he's just anchored, and removes the carabiner clip -- 
HAL - FALLING 
The rope draws taut, yanking out the last piton between he and Gabe -- nothing but a few yards of slack rope now -- 
GABE 
has the bolt gun out. He rapidly hooks the rope's carabiner clip to the chambered bolt, and FIRES it at a solid rock ledge above him -- 
INSERT - THE BOLT 
imbeds solidly in the rock -- 
GABE 
lashes the rope to his shoulder, bracing for the coming impact by lodging his feet in the ice -- 
THE JOLT - WIDER SHOT 
The line pulls taut, leaving Hal suspended, the wind knocked out of him from the impact -- 
GABE 
is almost dragged down by the jolt -- he painfully takes most of the impact in his shoulders -- the shock forces his feet through an ice ledge -- but the rope, bolted to the rock above, has held. Barely. 
GABE (shaken, voice gone) Anchored -- (shouts this time) Anchored! 
HAL 
now somewhat recovered, steadies himself. 
HAL (breathless too) You're sure this time -- 
Hal climbs up the rope, finally reaching another ledge slightly below Gabe's. Hal leans against the wall, gasping, as Gabe clips the gun to his pack. 
HAL (looking up at gun) Don't say it -- 
GABE (wheezing too) It's kind of hard to resist -- 
GABE                         HAL It's not dead                It's not dead weight -- you                weight -- I am. are. 
Hal and Gabe start howling -- that hysterical, giddy laugh that only comes from just missing a violent end. 
WIDE SHOT ON MOUNTAIN - THE TWO LEDGES 
Hal and Gabe's friendship is starting to resurface -- their LAUGHTER is nearly louder than the wind, as we -- 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. PRECIPICE EDGE - DAY - BINOCULAR POV 
From the top of the bluff, someone is looking down through binoculars -- Gabe and Hal's orange jackets are plainly visible a few hundred yards below. 
RYAN 
lowers the binoculars, and keys an ear button on the headset radio he's wearing, sending a beep. 
INSIDE THE PLANE 
Travers is wearing another headset -- the others are just resting in the seats 
TRAVERS (into mouthpiece) Have they arrived? (two beeps in response) Good. Return to the plane and cover your tracks. 
QUALEN (to others) Get ready. 
ON THE MOUNTAIN BELOW 
Hal and Gabe are tired, but get a second wind from the excitement of being almost on top. Gabe stops, breathless for a second, then goes on. Hal lags a little behind. 
GABE Come on -- the hard part's over. 
Gabe heads up and over 
THE MOUNTAIN'S EDGE/CRASH SITE 
and helps Hal up. From here, the rest of the range looms large. Even in the continuing snowstorm, it's a spectacular sight -- but Gabe and Hal don't pause to enjoy it. This isn't a trip for sport. Hal looks off into the trees, and sees the torn tree stumps from the plane crash. 
HAL Sure. All the bullets we can eat. 
GABE That's not what really worries me. 
HAL There's something else to worry about? 
GABE Yeah. Once they've got what they're after -- they're gonna need a copter to get out of here. 
HAL (realizing) Maggie. 
Gabe nods grimly -- and keeps moving up. The rest keep pace. 
THE WALL 
The climbers have reached a point of comparative comfort on the wall -- the ledge is now two feet wide. Travers takes out the tracer monitor -- the monitor shows that the first case is just above them. 
TRAVERS Hold it. (beat) It's up there. 
"UP THERE" - AN OVERHANG 
juts out of the wall fifty feet above their position. As the rest of the wall above is completely sheer, it's obvious that the case, if it is above, has landed on top of a ledge. 
But this isn't easily accessible -- we MOVE DOWN from the overhang and can see there are only the smallest of handholds to get up there, and those are slick with ice and snow. Worse, the rest of the mountain bulges outward in a curve, making climbing almost impossible. 
ON THE LEDGE 
Travers holds his gun on Gabe, and motions up 
TRAVERS Fetch. 
GABE I'll need the ice axe. 
TRAVERS (laughs) You've got to be kidding. 
GABE (sighs) Okay. How about some tape? 
Travers nods -- Kynette pulls a roll of tape out of Gabe's confiscated pack and throws it to him. 
GABE Crampons too. 
Travers hesitates, but nods -- Kynette throws him the iron spikes. Gabe fastens them to his boots. 
Gabe looks up -- this is going to be tough, even for him. In spite of the cold, he takes off his gloves -- that's how small these holds are -- and he meticulously tapes up his hands and his fingers. 
HIGH ANGLE - GABE 
moves up the wall with some ease at first -- there are hand-sized handholds, and decent footholds -- but twenty feet up, there's nothing. To keep going, Gabe has to painfully wedge his fingers into small cracks, essentially supporting his weight only by several fingerholds at any given moment. We can see from the angle that Gabe is at least 3,000 feet from solid ground. We can see from his face that he's trying not to think about it. 
ON THE LEDGE - TRAVERS AND QUALEN 
watch Gabe's slow progress. 
QUALEN I don't trust him. 
TRAVERS (indicating wall) Where could he go? 
QUALEN I'd rather he didn't show us. (beat) We don't need two guides. 
TRAVERS (shrugs) You win. Kill him when he gets down. 
GABE ON THE WALL - CLOSE 
Make that "if he comes down". Gabe is now in one of the worst positions possible for a free climb. He is moving up the underside of the overhang and is essentially hanging upside down, knifing his fingers into tiny cracks for support. It's excruciating -- both in terms of muscular effort, and the abrasions that come from forcing fingers into ice and rock again and again. Gabe keeps his hold with one hand and slides the other up, hammering it into a crack wedge with ice -- some of the ice chips whistle past and down -- 
-- finally, Gabe gropes one hand over the edge, and pulls himself onto 
THE OVERHANG 
Exhausted, Gabe pulls himself prone across the top. Something hard is underneath him -- Gabe recovers and brushes the snow off the money case that's underneath. It's battered from the fall, but is still barely holding together. Gabe manages to force open the trashed locks -- he looks inside the case, and fingers a band of $5000s. 
GABE Jesus. 
ON THE LEDGE - TRAVERS AND QUALEN 
look up. They can see Gabe has made it -- but they can't see him, or the case. 
TRAVERS (impatient, shouting) Lower it down -- now! 
ON THE OVERHANG - GAB 
has no intention of doing this -- he snaps the case shut and looks over at a ledge that moves off from it -- and at the ice and snow above. 
ON THE LEDGE - TRAVERS AND QUALEN'S POV 
try to look up and locate Gabe. They can't. Until -- 
GABE (O.S.) (shouting down) I've got a better idea. Why don't you come up and get it? 
With the case, Gabe moves, back against the wall, on a ledge that skirts off the overhand -- from Travers and Qualen's point of view. Gabe can hardly be seen -- since the mountain bulges out as it goes up. Gabe's got a slight edge of cover. 
TRAVERS (shouts to Heldon) Get him! 
Heldon runs along the lower ledge, FIRING up at -- 
GABE 
who has to flatten against the upper ledge -- bullets howl past at twenty per second, SPARKING against the lip of the rock -- it's cover, but not much -- 
HAL 
looks up, worried -- 
HAL'S POV - ICE AND SNOW 
piled by the ton from the storm, lie further above -- the ice holding it back already, already weakened by the sun, is being chiselled away by bullets -- 
ON THE LOWER LEDGE - QUALEN 
It's a crevice in the mountain, about two feet wide -- a climber would call this a "chimney" -- and it's packed with ice and snow. It's also packed with 
GABE 
-- his hand gropes out -- and with some difficulty, he digs himself out, gasping and coughing. Gabe, coated with snow, leans against the wall and rests. Alive. 
INT. RANGER STATION - DAY 
Maggie is on the phone, pacing, as Frank is slumped in front of the radio scanner. Suddenly, the radio comes to life. 
HAL (O.S.) -- Come in, Rescue Unit -- over -- 
Maggie bolts over to the radio before Frank can react. 
MAGGIE (keying mike) Rescue Unit -- what's going on, Hall? -- over -- 
EXT. MOUNTAIN - WOODED AREA - DAY 
Travers has his gun pressed to Hal's temple. 
TRAVERS No tricks, no procedural codes, no personal messages -- just tell them everything's under control and you're taking care of the wounded. 
HAL (keys it) We've reached the wreckage -- top of Comb Bluff -- six injured, but they're responding to treatment. Everything A-OK. Over. 
MAGGIE (O.S.) Everything isn't okay, Hal -- I'm coming up after you -- over -- 
HAL Negative, Maggie. Winds are too high, and the passengers' injuries are all superficial. We're going to ride out the storm here -- over -- 
Travers yanks away the radio. 
TRAVERS Have her come up. 
HAL Forget it -- downdrafts would wipe her all over the peaks -- (Travers starts to argue) -- Not that I expect you to give a shit, but it's our only copter. You'll be stuck. 
Travers relents and hands the radio back. 
MAGGIE (O.S.) I can handle the winds -- 
HAL (breaking in) Forget about it, Maggie, that's an order -- acknowledge -- 
INT. RANGER STATION 
Maggie looks out the window. The station's windspeed gauge is flying around so fast it looks like it might take off. 
MAGGIE Acknowledged. Let me talk to Gabe -- over -- 
HAL (O.S.) (hesitates) You can't. He's taking care of passengers. Just like I should be. Over and out. 
Maggie leans back in the chair, looks out at the storm, and tries not to worry. She fails miserably. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN - WOODED AREA - TRAVERS AND HAL 
TRAVERS (snatching radio away) Good. You might live longer than your friend. Now -- (takes out monitor) -- what? 
Hal takes the monitor -- the next blip is above, almost straight up. Hal motions to the wooded area ahead. 
HAL The next one's on top of the peak. This'll be long, but easy -- more like a hike than a climb. 
TRAVERS (suspicious) It looks like a winding route. 
HAL There's a more direct route. The East Face. But it's the wall on the other side, and it's smooth as glass. Maybe a dozen guys in the world could do it in good weather. Only a psycho would try it in a snowstorm. 
Travers digests this, and motions Hal to move on as we -- 
CUT TO: 
CLOSE SHOT - GABE'S FACE 
is torn in pain. In spite of the cold and wind, he's drenched in sweat, half exertion, half fear. We pull back to take in 
THE EAST WALL - LONG SHOT 
Envision a wall. A really big wall. A really, really big wall. A wall that's as wide as it is high -- five thousand feet by five thousand feet -- narrowing to a domed peak at the summit. 
Now picture the same wall, checkered with ice. If this were horizontal, you or I couldn't walk on it without falling. 
Now picture the same wall with an orange dot, two-thirds of the way up it. The orange dot is 
GABE 
and he barely has the strength to hold on, much less go up. Gabe holds himself steady with one hand, gets a foothold, and swings another hand up to SLAM it against the wall. 
He's improvised gear -- he's tied a crampon to one hand. But it's as awkward as it sounds. Gabe moves up only a foot or so -- then pulls out the crampon, reaches up, and SLAMS it into the wall, starting the painful process over again. 
CUT TO; 
INT. DENVER MINT - WRIGHT'S OFFICE - DAY 
Wright's pacing around, trying to figure out what in his office he should break first. Davis shows up at the door. 
WRIGHT (furious) Okay -- I know it's not in San Francisco. I know it's not here. I know it's not in any fucking airport from here to Montana. Where it's not - we got that covered. Now, do you have any ideas on where it is? 
DAVIS (walking to a map) There's no radio contact, sir. At all. We're not receiving the tracer signal from the cockpit's flight recorder. Radar lost it after it went low here. 
He points to a huge part of Colorado. Hundreds of square miles. 
DAVIS We have to assume it went down in the storm. 
WRIGHT Air search? 
DAVIS (shakes head) That storm hasn't quit yet. Weather service says we've got it until tomorrow morning at least. Even if we could get a plane up now, it'd be impossible to see anything on the ground. And -- 
Wright slumps into a chair. 
WRIGHT -- The roads are shut down, right? 
DAVIS Most of this area doesn't even have roads. 
THE MONITOR 
which shows he's practically on top of the case -- finally 
TRAVERS 
shoves his way through some small pines -- he can see the blinking of the red tracer light ahead through the branches. 
TRAVERS (calling behind) It's over here! 
Travers shoves his way through the branches, and heads for the light -- but something's wrong -- Qualen comes up behind Travers and shines the light on 
A SNOWMAN 
cute, if hastily constructed, stands with a five-pebble smile, as well as Douglas' cap, in a clearing. The still blinking, still operable tracer is now the nose of the snowman. The case is leaned up against it. 
Travers runs over to the case, furious, and opens it. It's empty -- except for a single $5000 bill. Travers picks it up -- scrawled on the margin is "LET'S TRADE." 
TRAVERS (incredulous) He's still alive. (furious) He's still alive! (to Qualen and the others) He can't be far away -- spread out! 
Qualen, Kynette, Delmer and Krystel fan out into the woods, each with a flashlight and a fun. Ryan, however, straps on nightfinder goggles and runs out without a flashlight. 
TRAVERS (to Hal, brandishing gun) Put your hands on your head. 
ELSEWHERE ON THE SUMMIT - GABE 
watches the chaos with a grin from a slightly elevated vantage point -- he can see the flashlight beams, all headed in the wrong direction. But he doesn't see 
RYAN - "NIGHTFINDER" POV 
With these goggles, light is amplified a thousandfold -- this isn't one of those infra-red, thermo-blob jobs -- it looks more like day for night photography. Even starlight is enough for Ryan to run easily through the thick woods -- and he's going in the right direction. 
GABE 
begins climbing down to level ground so he can circle closer to where Travers is holding Hal -- before he can get far -- 
"NIGHTFINDER" POV - RYAN 
looks up, and can clearly see Gabe climbing down the small rock, twenty yards distant -- 
RYAN 
smiles, looking macabre under the goggles, and opens fire -- 
GABE 
is startled as the bullets impact inches over his head -- he jumps the last ten feet to the ground and is running even as he hits the ground -- more bullets hit where Gabe was a split second ago -- 
RYAN 
chases Gabe, easily maneuvering through the trees -- 
GABE 
runs too, trying to dodge Ryan's continuing fusillades -- Gabe knows this territory, but to him, it's still pitch dark -- he stumbles, and rams against trees -- 
RYAN 
keeps coming up behind, closing the hap, Gabe's bright form just ahead -- 
GABE 
comes out of the trees and finds he is on another part of the summit. All that's beneath him is 
GABE'S POV 
-- a sudden, sloping plunge down a field of ice. No escape route here -- anything that goes down this slide is going all the way to the ground far below. 
GABE 
is driven forward by a fresh burst of bullets -- he dives to the edge of the ice field and ducks behind a boulder -- the sole source of cover. 
ELSEWHERE ON THE SUMMIT 
Kristel, Qualen and Kynette, having heard the gunshots, are now rushing to Gabe's position -- 
RYAN 
almost casually emerges from the woods. He can see there is nowhere for Gabe to have gone -- except behind the boulder. He walks toward it as if he had all the time in the world. 
GABE 
fumbles in his backpack and pulls out something from the Douglas exhibit -- an ancient flare that looks like a can of sterno. Gabe pulls out his lighter and tries to light it -- it resists and looks like a dud, but finally it catches, and as it ignites Gabe heaves it over the boulder at Ryan -- 
RYAN - "NIGHTFINDER" POV - THE FLARE 
arcs over the boulder to fully ignite, turning everything into a blinding, agonizing flash of white -- 
RYAN 
SCREAMS, putting one hand over the goggles, trying to rip them off -- 
GABE 
bolts out from behind the boulder to rush him -- 
RYAN 
instantly aware of what Gabe's doing, blindly shoots, fanning out in a semi-circle as he gets the goggles off -- 
GABE 
just runs straight ahead to Ryan, getting to him before the machine gun field of fire can intersect his path -- Gabe tackles Ryan as he manages to get the goggles off -- both men fall to the ground, and -- 
The machine gun CLATTERS away, landing on the edge of the ice, just out of reach -- Ryan, now recovered from the blinding flash, pulls an ice axe out of a pack sheath and swings it at Gabe -- Gabe rolls away in time, and gets to the machine gun, grabbing it -- But Ryan dives for Gabe, slamming into him -- the force of it knocks the machine gun loose -- it skips down the ice slope -- but the momentum of Ryan's hit also carries both Gabe and Ryan over the edge, onto -- 
THE ICE SLOPE 
DAVIS Not yet -- 
WRIGHT (heading to the door) Get the copters ready. We take off in three minutes. 
DAVIS The winds are still too strong -- 
WRIGHT Sorry to hear it. We're still going. The plane might be intact. 
Wright drags the protesting Davis out the door. 
DAVIS Sir -- 
WRIGHT Shut up. That fifty million isn't coming out of my pension. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN TOP - DOUGLAS TOURIST SHACK - DAY 
Travers, Qualen and the rest of the expedition head out of the shack, a little groggy. Odds are no one got much sleep. 
Travers shoves Hal toward a sketchy "YOU ARE HERE" map of the mountain range, and hands him the tracer monitor. 
TRAVERS Still interested in staying alive? 
Hal matches the monitor to the map -- the blip is higher up. 
HAL (pointing to map) It's up here. Somewhere on the Tower. There's a way to cross over to the top in about half a day. 
TRAVERS Show me. 
Travers shoves Hal forward -- the others follow. 
ELSEWHERE ON THE MOUNTAIN/SUMMIT - BINOCULAR POV 
From about fifty yards off, someone watches Hal lead the gang away from the shack. 
BRETT (O.S.) They're heading toward the opposite edge. An easy way down. 
BRETT AND EVAN 
are crouched in the woods. Brett, gun in hand, has no idea how far out of his league he is. Evan looks like he's having second thoughts, but he can't hack down now. 
BRETT I'll cut around this side, and wind up in front. You come up behind them -- quietly. And we've got 'em. 
EVAN Brett -- they've got five guns -- 
BRETT And you can collect them all after I get the drop on 'em. Let's get moving. 
Brett, automatic held high, circles off through the woods. Evan reluctantly lopes off toward his assignment. 
BELOW - GABE'S CAVE 
Gabe pulls his jacket on -- reversed, with the grey lining out, so the orange won't make him so easy to spot -- and starts out towards the facing Tower -- his route, clearly, is going to be along the rock wall. It's relatively sheer, but there are shelves cut into it to make walking easy. 
MOUNTAIN TOP/SUMMIT - BRETT 
races quietly through the woods in a parallel path with Hal, who's guiding the hang. Brett circles around ahead of them, waiting. Before he can jump out -- 
HAL'S POV - ON BRETT 
hiding ahead in the trees and rocks. 
HAL 
makes eye contact with Brett, realizes what he's doing, and shakes his head as violently as he dares -- no, don't -- 
BRETT 
gives Hal a confident wink in response, then pounces in front of the gang, gun held high. 
BRETT End of the line! 
Travers, Delmer, Kristel and Kynette are startled, but don't immediately comply. This throws Brett off his stride. 
BRETT (nervous now) You heard me! Drop the guns! 
Travers smiles and steps closer to Brett. The others walk up in front of Hal. Travers actually laughs. 
TRAVERS "End of the line"? That's classic. (beat) You've got style. So, I'm going to give you a three-count to figure out how to turn the safety off. 
Brett doesn't even look down -- he responds by FIRING a short burst over Travers' head. 
BRETT Nice try. I've got one of these at home. Now drop 'em. 
All drop their guns -- Brett, unfortunately, realizes at the same time we do -- 
BRETT Hey -- where's the other guy -- 
HAL (shouting) Brett, behind you! 
Too late -- Brett can only twist around half way before -- 
QUALEN 
easily mows down Brett with his machine gun, riddling him with at least thirty rounds at close range. Brett falls dead into the snow. Qualen walks up to Brett's corpse, blood steaming in the reddening snow, and kicks it over. 
BELOW ON THE WALLSIDE 
Gabe, reacting to the sound of the machine gun fire, climbs up, but there's nothing he can do -- 
TRAVERS AND QUALEN 
and the others pick up their guns. 
TRAVERS (turning to face Hal) Time to -- 
Travers sees that Hal is gone -- he's escaped in the confusion. 
IN THE WOODS - HAL 
turns away -- he can't watch Evan hit bottom -- he grimaces and looks up with absolute hate at 
TRAVERS 
who doesn't see Gabe -- he's laughing at Evan's desperation, which ends as his death scream is cut off. 
Hal is led over to the spur, with the other gang members behind him. Hal looks as angry as Gabe. 
QUALEN Was that Walker? 
TRAVERS No such luck. (to Hal, smiling) Cheer up. Everyone should die in a spot this beautiful. 
ON THE LEDGE BELOW - CLOSE ON GABE 
who has heard this and is shaking with fury. 
GABE (quietly) Don't worry. You will. 
LONG SHOT OF MOUNTAIN 
On top, Hal reluctantly leads the gang away -- below, we can see Gabe start out on a parallel path along the ledges. 
EXT. RANGER STATION - HELIPAD - DAY 
Winds or not, Maggie is untying the helicopter's rotor from the bolts on the helipad. Frank, who has obviously just awakened, rushes out of the station. 
FRANK Maggie -- what are you doing -- 
MAGGIE I'm going to go nuts if I sit here one more hour. 
FRANK Still a little breezy out, Mag -- 
Maggie gets into the helicopter and starts the rotor. 
MAGGIE (over engine's whine) You coming? 
Frank hesitates, but climbs in the other side. The helicopter lifts off and heads toward the mountain range. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN - AERIAL SHOT - DAY 
The next obstacle Hal is leading the gang through is a buttress -- a large, stark boulder formation -- that lays between the mountain they've just come from, and the nearest mountain to it: the Tower. This is lower down from the summit -- it's solid and treeless. 
Hal and the rest of the expedition is totally exposed as they climb in single file up to the top. Terrain is flat enough that the climb amount to an uphill run on all fours. 
CLOSER ON HAL AND GANG 
Hal leads the gang forward -- and keeps casting anxious glances back at them. And beyond them. Travers notices this. 
TRAVERS Forget about it. He's smart, but he's not invisible. 
Hal looks back. Travers is right. There's absolutely no way Gabe can come up behind them without being seen. 
LOWER DOWN ON BLUFF 
where the bluff meets a tree-lined plain. Gabe, in hiding, watches Hal and the others go up. No, he can't follow them up the bluff's side without being seen. But Gabe moves closer to the bluff's base -- Gabe shoves through some trees to the beginning of 
THE "CHIMNEY" 
A crevice runs the entire length and breadth of the bluff. 
GABE 
pulls out his ancient binoculars, and scans the crack. 
GABE'S POV - THE CHIMNEY 
Starting with an outside view, we can see that the crevice runs all the way up, and through, the bluff -- but it's a zig-zag, not a straight line. 
Picture a mine shaft designed by a madman. The crack moves upward, then erratically to the side, then straight up again. The width of the crack is uneven, ranging from six inches to six feet. And that's just how it looks on the outside. There's no telling what the interior is like. 
Gabe turns the binoculars to the inside of the crack. It's hard to see much -- it's very, very dark. But it looks as if the crack goes all the way through the bluff, as well as all the way up it. On this route, Gabe can tunnel through the mountain instead of going up the side. 
GABE 
puts away the binoculars and wedges himself into the crack, starting the long process of going up -- and through -- the mountain formation. 
EXT. COLORADO WILDERNESS - PLANE CRASH SITE - DAY 
A frenzy of activity, as several dozen Treasury agents sift through the snow for the wreckage of the CT-39, some taking photos, some taking videotapes, some putting the pieces into bags for analysis. Many bags. Many small bags. 
WIDER ON CRASH SITE 
The Treasury plane has been completely pulverized by the crash and its subsequent explosion -- there are few pieces here that aren't charred, and fewer still that are any larger than a paperback book. 
WRIGHT 
unhappily walks through the carnage and past agents gathering up the plane, to a harried crash specialist from the FAA -- ROSS STUART (40s) -- who is organizing the debris. 
WRIGHT What can you confirm? 
STUART Well, sir -- it crashed. That, I can confirm. (condescending) We've been here just about one hour. These events take months to analyze. So if you'll excuse me -- 
He walks away -- but Wright, pissed, spins him around. 
WRIGHT No, I don't think I will. The reason the FAA pays you is to exercise your vast, amazing knowledge of these "events". So I expect you to come up with some stunning insights, something a slow-witted fuck like me hasn't already observed. (gesturing to wreckage) One: it didn't blow up in mid-air, because the debris isn't widely dispersed. But was there a bomb on board that could have disabled it? I wonder. (pointing back) Two: There wasn't an attempted landing. Otherwise, there'd be debris to the east of the wreckage, where the plane was coming from. Did it come straight down? That's got me scratching my head too. (gesturing back to wreckage) And three: the flight recorder's tracer led us here in the first place. So where is the goddamn thing? That one's got me all aflush with curiosity. 
STUART (a little cowed) You'll be the first to know. 
WRIGHT Oh, I believe you. 
Wright storms off as agents delicately handle debris. 
EXT. TOP OF THE BLUFF/VISTA - DAY 
A vista. From this point, you can see everything else in the mountain range. The only thing left that's taller is the Tower, a hundred yards away. Between the two mountains lies a drop of a mere four thousand feet. 
Hal has led the rest of the gang up to the edge. Travers approaches him, furious. 
is fading fast. A match's last gasp is brighter. 
GABE 
exasperated, puts the penlight in his mouth and moves on. 
GABE (garbled) Much better. 
Gabe inches on to the side. Looks up to see if the crack has gotten wider. It hasn't. Gabe mumbles something phonetically near "motherfucker" around the flashlight, aiming it up -- 
GABE'S POV - UP 
No opening larger than a mail slot -- 
GABE 
still cursing, still looking up, still moving to the side -- he gets the opening he wants, but not where he wants it -- 
The crack suddenly, drastically widens as he moves to the side -- since he's been bracing his back against the wall, Gabe falls out of control, twisting around, face down -- 
Gabe bounces down the walls for several yards and catches himself by bracing his arms and legs against the crack. It's now five feet wide as he painfully brakes himself -- 
GABE'S POV - THE PENLIGHT 
falls out of Gabe's mouth and tumbles down, ping-ponging from one side of the crack to the other as it tumbles a long, long way down -- even after the light is gone, we can still hear the penlight's receding clattering against the walls -- 
GABE 
is now, literally, in a jam. There are no handholds, no ledges, and the walls are slick. All he can do is remain braced against the crack's walls until his already sore arms and legs give out. 
EXT. RESCUE HELICOPTER - NEAR BLUFF'S BASE - DAY 
Frank is now flying the helicopter -- a body bag is stashed in the back, and Maggie is in the passenger seat. 
MAGGIE (motioning down) Bring it down here. 
FRANK Maggie -- 
MAGGIE Just do it, Frank. 
EXT. BLUFF BASE 
The copter touches down -- Frank doesn't turn it off. Maggie jumps out with a walkie talkie. Frank makes another try. 
FRANK Maggie, this is dumb -- 
MAGGIE No it isn't. I'm going to find Brett -- I don't want to have to talk to his widow too. Fly Evan's body back to base -- I'll call you when I've found Brett. Or Hal. Or Gabe. Or anybody. 
Maggie runs off into the snow as Frank lifts off. Maggie moves quickly through the snow, and it isn't long before she spots multiple tracks in the snow -- they lead toward, and up, the buttress. Now she's really confused. But with nothing left to do, she starts climbing up the side. 
EXT. WIRE CROSSING - HAL'S POV 
As we've caught Hal in mid-crossing, he's looking from whence he came -- the opposite side of the buttress, where Travers has a gun trained on him -- 
HAL 
unhappily hangs high above the ground from the harness kindly provided by Travers -- 
HAL'S POV - ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WIRE 
Kristel is waiting, also with a gun trained on him. Hal arrives and disengages -- the harness is pulled back. 
BUTTRESS SIDE OF WIRE 
Kynette pulls the harness back and hands it to Qualen, who's standing next to Travers. 
KYNETTE (motioning up) I'm going back. 
TRAVERS Look -- this part is nothing, believe me -- 
KYNETTE Walker should be coming up by now. 
Kynette, automatic strapped to his chest, rushes back to the buttress' summit. 
INT. BUTTRESS CRACK/CHIMNEY 
Gabe is just as we left him. Face down, arms and legs pressing against the five-foot gap of the tunnel walls. 
Carefully, Gabe takes one hand off the wall, gets out his lighter with the other, and ignites it for a look -- 
GABE'S POV - UPWARD 
Just as the crack has widened below him -- it's wider above him. More important, it slants at an easy enough angle to allow him to walk up. If only he can get up there. 
GABE 
snaps the lighter shut, pockets it, and readies himself. 
Gabe steadily "walks" up the vertical passage by bracing himself with one leg and one arm -- then moving the other leg and arm up. 
Gabe repeats this until he has his hands on the curved edge where the crack snakes into a sideways passage. But there are no handholds that will allow Gabe to get a grip and simply swing over and climb up. 
GABE (winded) So much for the easy part. 
OVERHEAD ANGLE - THE CRACK 
Gabe takes a deep breath, readies himself, and shoves himself away from the wall with his arms, pushes himself into a squat against the opposite wall, hanging for a second with no support at all, and he springs from that all into 
THE DIAGONAL PASSAGE 
Gabe lands hard but flat on the passage and immediately starts backsliding into the drop, but he digs in with his boots and his hands. Safe at last. Gabe carefully stands in a crouch -- and starts heading up. 
EXT. BUTTRESS TOP 
Kynette moves to the edge, lies flat, and looks down -- 
KYNETTE'S POV - ON THE BUTTRESS SIDE 
GABE AND MAGGIE - FURTHER DOWN 
-- bullets are RICOCHETING all over -- Gabe throws himself over Maggie to shield her. 
KYNETTE 
can't see what he's shooting at, so he mercifully stops. Seeing the rope, he bends down to climb after them -- 
GABE AND MAGGIE - FURTHER DOWN 
Gabe reaches up and tugs gently on the rope twice -- 
KYNETTE - REACHING FOR THE ROPE 
-- which is tied in a standard climber's slipknot and comes undone with a final tug -- the rope, freed of the piton, falls down, but Kynette firmly grabs hold of the end -- 
GABE 
feels the rope go taut -- he yanks the rope down hard -- 
KYNETTE 
gets more pull than he counted on and takes a head first fall into the crack, disappearing with a scream -- Qualen has just arrived in time to see this -- 
GABE 
looks over as Kynette bounces past him, a few feet away -- the rope goes slack in his hand as Kynette falls below. 
UP ABOVE - QUALEN 
in frustration, FIRES a burst straight down into the crack -- 
GABE AND MAGGIE - IN THE CRACK/CHIMNEY 
Gabe and Maggie move laterally through the crack -- now about thirty feet from where they started, so ricochets are a serious but decreasing problem. 
The crack narrows from five to three feet. Gabe edges Maggie down into it, and along a ledge moving to the side. 
GABE This way. (off Maggie's look) I like the outside of the mountain better too, but -- 
Gabe and Maggie move along the ledge -- 
QUALEN 
is still at the edge of the crack -- stymied. He's definitely not climbing down after them -- he pulls back from the edge. 
IN THE CRACK/CHIMNEY - GABE AND MAGGIE 
find a comparative point of comfort -- a toe-sized ledge. Maggie is moving ahead of Gabe. 
GABE Stop. 
MAGGIE We can't -- 
GABE I need to stop. 
Exhausted, Gabe braces himself against the wall. 
GABE (looks at Maggie) I'm glad to see you -- but Christ, I wish you hadn't come. 
EXT. WIRE CROSSING - TOWER SIDE - DAY 
Qualen whizzes across the wire on the harness, easily making it to where Hal, Travers and Kristel are waiting. 
TRAVERS Don't tell me -- 
QUALEN (disengaging) He's still alive. 
Travers takes a couple of heavy swings at the connecting bolt with Hal's axe. Qualen grabs his arm before he can take a third swing -- and looks at his watch. 
QUALEN For another two minutes. 
IN THE CRACK/CHIMNEY - GABE AND MAGGIE 
Gabe catches his breath. All this is taking its toll on him. 
MAGGIE It hurts just looking at you. 
GABE (still panting) Try it from this side. Do you still have your radio? 
MAGGIE It's not going to work in here. 
GABE Let's give it a try. (she hands it to him) I'm in bad need of a ride. (keys it) Come in, Rescue Unit -- 
EXT. TOWER FACE - DAY 
Hal is leading the expedition upward along a ledge -- the radio, in Travers' pack, comes to life. 
GABE (O.S.) (over radio) -- Come in, Rescue One -- 
Travers stares daggers at Qualen. Qualen looks to his watch. 
QUALEN Patience. 
INT. RESCUE STATION 
The radio is reading Gabe loud, if not clear -- the interference of solid rock is garbling it. But we can see out the window that Frank is now between radios, carefully hauling Evan's body from the helicopter to the station on a collapsible gurney. No one else is in the station. 
GABE (O.S.) (over radio, broken up) -- Come in, Frank -- 
INT. BUTTRESS CRACK/CHIMNEY 
Gabe, exasperated, stops for a moment. 
GABE Is there anybody else on the radio? 
Maggie shakes her head no. 
DAVIS I've got something here. 
STUART Let's have it. 
DAVIS There's an unconfirmed report of a distress call made from a plane that crashed. 
STUART That's really, really interesting, but (gestures around) -- kind of old news, don't you think? 
DAVIS This call was supposedly made from a plane that crash landed. After it landed. 
STUART (waves it off) Sounds like they got it wrong. Next time you interrupt my work make sure it's something I can use. 
INT. MOUNTAIN CRACK/CHIMNEY 
Gabe and Maggie cautiously move along a single ledge -- finally, some light can be seen, thirty feet ahead, as they round a corner. 
GABE (smiling) Come on -- we're almost out. 
The crack narrows, and Gabe straddles it, putting his feet on the opposite edge to walk faster. But before he can go on -- 
A HAND 
grabs one of Gabe's ankles from below and yanks him down -- Gabe tumbles painfully, braking himself in front of 
KYNETTE 
bruised and bloody, who has survived the earlier fall and made his way out. His look is not a forgiving one. 
KYNETTE Miss me? 
Kynette smashes Gabe's face with a devastating, brass-knuckled punch -- 
GABE 
falls back, desperately grabbing at the walls to stop himself from going all the way down -- as he weakly tries to get up -- 
KYNETTE 
calmly opens his knife, and re-laces his fingers into its brass-knuckle handle. 
TOWER FACE 
The gang and Hal watch the mountain top, with very different expectations and hopes -- their vantage point keeps them from seeing where the crack actually comes out. 
QUALEN (looks to Hal) You might say a few words for your friends -- this is the one that will bury them. 
BOMB NUMBER TWO - INSERT 
Ready to blow -- 0:10 -- 0:09 -- 
IN THE CRACK - MAGGIE 
can only look down helplessly at 
GABE AND KYNETTE 
fighting -- Gabe is on his feet, but Kynette, slashing at him with his knife, is forcing Gabe to back up -- the crack is getting wider, and finding footholds while crab-walking backwards in the dark isn't east. 
Gabe's in a rotten fighting position -- as he has to spread his feet out wider as he backs up, he's always lower than Kynette. 
Gabe throws a punch at Kynette's stomach, but there's no power to it. Kynette hits Gabe with a brutal knuckle-duster punch -- Gabe flies back several feet, somehow managing to straddle the crack walls -- which are now four feet apart. Kynette moves in for the kill. 
BOMB NUMBER TWO - INSERT 
The LED counts down -- 0:02 -- 0:01 -- 0:00 -- but doesn't detonate. A green light starts flashing, but the bomb hasn't gone off. 
IN THE CRACK/CHIMNEY 
Kynette moves in over Gabe and swings down with the knife -- But Gabe grabs his knife hand, and adding his own force to the swing, imbeds the knife to the hilt in the rock wall, trapping Kynette's hand in the brass-knuckle handle. 
Gabe stabilizes himself on Kynette's trapped arm and gets a little payback -- three solid roundhouse punches to Kynette's face -- he then climbs up his pinned opponent, stepping up on Kynette's stuck hand as if it were a piton. 
TOWER FACE 
Qualen's smirk is wiped off his face. The bomb didn't work? 
TRAVERS What happened? 
QUALEN I'm not sure -- I set the timer -- 
Qualen gestures helplessly, putting the radio in Hal's reach. Hal takes advantage of this, throws off Travers, and grabs the radio. 
HAL (keying radio) Gabe, it's a dud -- 
But the second Hal transmits -- 
BOMB NUMBER TWO 
detonates over the central part of the crevice, and as promised, it's even bigger than the first -- 
INSIDE THE CRACK 
The bomb instantly blasts tons of rock down the crevice -- 
GABE AND MAGGIE 
The RUMBLE of the approaching rockslide is unmistakable -- Gabe shoves Maggie forward -- 
GABE Move! 
Maggie doesn't have to be told twice -- she and Gabe move out the narrowed crack quickly, but under the circumstances, this "running" looks damn slow -- 
KYNETTE 
struggles with the stuck knife as the cave-in knocks him off the wall and buries him instantly -- 
GABE AND MAGGIE 
GABE (misses the point) Yeah, they made it pretty good then. Each of these strands ought to hold about 300 pounds before snapping. 
Gabe rapidly ties the rope to the piton -- Maggie works on the third connecting knot as she does the mental calculation of what she and Gabe weigh together. 
MAGGIE (dazed) Ought to. About. (beat) Will it hold? 
Gabe takes the line from her and lets it drop. Ninety feet of what looks like twine. 
GABE Depends on how big a breakfast you had. You want to go first? 
Maggie's stunned -- but there's no choice. She starts the rappel down, and Gabe is close behind. 
INSERT - THE THIRD BOMB 
is ready to blow -- 0:12 -- 0:11 -- 
MAGGIE AND GABE - RAPPELLING DOWN 
To make this even trickier, they have to swing over to the side about fifteen feet to get to the cave -- meaning they have to move down in pendulum type swings that put even more pressure on 
THE ROPE 
which looks sorely tested at one knot -- it's coming undone -- 
MAGGIE AND GABE - RAPPELLING 
They swing down lower -- twenty feet to the cave, four thousand to the ground -- 
INSERT - THE BOMB 
MAGGIE AND GABE - RAPPELLING 
They reach the end of the rope -- six feet above the cave and fifteen feet away laterally. 
GABE (shouting) Swing towards it -- and drop! 
Maggie nods -- they start the swing over -- as they get over the cave's lip -- 
THE ROPE 
snaps -- 
MAGGIE AND GABE 
fall, landing roughly on the cave's narrow lip -- Gabe starts to slip over, but Maggie pulls him back as -- 
ABOVE ON THE WALL 
The bomb detonates and starts raining debris -- an instant, massive rockslide -- 
MAGGIE AND GABE 
dive into the small cave as the rockslide tumbles past -- exhausted, they collapse on the cave floor. 
THE HELICOPTER - OVER THE TOWER 
Frank, obviously, is surprised by the nearby explosion. 
FRANK What the fuck -- 
But he sees Kristel in a clearing. Face down in the snow. First things first. 
EXT. TOWER/CLEARING 
Frank lands near her, and rushes over to her. Frank turns her over and breaks a capsule under her nose. She "wakes up" with a start and looks "terrified". 
KRISTEL What -- who are -- 
FRANK Don't worry. I'm here to help. 
KRISTEL (recovered) Glad to hear it. 
Kristel sees the snap is off Frank's holster -- she grabs it, spins it around, and pulls the trigger. CLICK. Frank grabs her wrist with a move faster than you'd expect from him, and he yanks the pistol back. 
FRANK Jailhouse load. First chamber's empty -- (aims gun) -- the rest aren't. Forgive me, but things have been a little strange this morning. 
Nearby, the helicopter radio crackles to life. Frank backs toward the helicopter, keeping the gun trained on Kristel. 
But Frank only gets to the helicopter door before -- 
DELMER 
comes out of hiding and empties a clip from his automatic into Frank. Frank is pinned to the door by the fusillade before he can even get a shot off. Travers runs over to Delmer and shoves the barrel up. 
TRAVER Stop! (explaining) You'll damage the helicopter. 
As if to punctuate this, Frank -- and the now ruined pilot side door -- fall to the ground. The radio continues to squawk as Travers grabs Frank's discarded gun. 
TRAVERS (to Kristel) Answer that. 
Kristel brushes the snow off her and goes over to the radio. 
STUART (O.S.) (over radio) Calling Rocky Mountain Rescue -- come in, Rocky Mountain Rescue -- over -- 
KRISTEL (keying radio) Rocky Mountain Rescue One, over -- 
EXT. TREASURY PLANE CRASH SITE - DAY 
Wright, davis, and an irritated Stuart huddle over a radio. 
STUART This is Ross Stuart, Federal Aviation Administration -- please identify -- over -- 
EXT. HELICOPTER - DAY 
By now, the others have come out of hiding and up to the helicopter. Kristel grabs some papers from a plastic packet on the helicopter seat -- and keys the mike. 
KRISTEL Copy, FAA. This is Margaret Deighan, Rocky Mountain Rescue. Over -- 
Dedicated agent Travers leans in reasonable comfort against the helicopter and keys his headset mike. 
TRAVERS Qualen. How far along are you? 
QUALEN (O.S.) (over radio) Not as far as we'd be with the helicopter. 
FURTHER DOWN ON MOUNTAIN/TOWER 
Qualen, Kristel and Delmer follow Hal's lead down the side -- it's not too steep a grade, but it's solid rock and it's covered with ice and fresh snow -- all have to brace themselves with their hands to keep from slipping down. 
TRAVERS (O.S.) (over radio) We have less than half a tank of fuel, Eric -- if we burn it up treasure hunting we'll never get off this rock. Now -- how far away are you? 
QUALEN (keys radio) It looks like two miles, but -- 
Qualen's foot slides out from under him -- he catches himself. 
QUALEN -- it'll take some time. 
TRAVERS (O.S.) (over radio) Time we have -- Walker's dead, Wright's an idiot. And our guide -- 
QUALEN (keys radio) What about him? 
TRAVERS (O.S.) (over radio) As soon as he becomes a convenience instead of a necessity -- kill him. 
QUALEN (keys radio) Agreed. 
HAL 
can only hear Qualen's end of the conversation -- but his face shows he can guess what they're talking about. 
CUT TO: 
GABE'S FACE - CLOSE 
Gabe's rattled too -- but for a brand new reason -- we PULL BACK to see Gabe at 
THE WIRE'S EDGE 
where the wire -- that wire -- links the buttress with the facing Tower. Whipping in the wind, it looks risky -- but that's not the problem. 
Gabe stares at the other edge for a moment. Immobile. Remembering Susan's death. Gabe shakes out of it when -- 
MAGGIE Gabe? (beat) I'll go first. 
GABE (shakes his head) If I don't go first, I might not go at all. 
Gabe hooks his ankles over the wire and starts dragging himself, hand over hand, across the abyss -- no safety line this time. As his weight pulls the line taut, the wind rocks him back and forth. Gabe steadily drags himself out -- 
GABE ON WIRE - LONG SHOT 
Fatigue stops Gabe in the middle -- a half mile up, strung between two gigantic mountains, he looks as insignificant and alone as a man possibly can be -- 
CLOSER ON GABE 
Panting with exertion, frozen -- he can barely hold his grip and has an elbow crooked around the wire for support. Gabe's eyes are shut -- he looks near collapse -- 
FLASHBACK - GABE'S POV 
Gabe is falling from the wire in slow motion, trailing Susan -- she spirals out of reach as his line SNAPS him back -- 
GABE'S 
grip unconsciously relaxes -- but his eyes jolt open and he clamps both hands shut on the wire. Gabe, drawing on some inner fury, drags himself with long, sharp yanks -- 
MAGGIE 
tensely watches Gabe's crossing -- 
OVERVIEW - GABE 
is about ten feet away from the end -- 
GABE'S UPSIDE-DOWN POV - THE END OF THE WIRE 
looks a lot further away than that -- 
GABE 
pulls faster -- and reaches the other side. Gabe maintains his hand grip and swings his feet onto the ledge, leaning back against the wall to catch his breath. 
GABE (winded, shouting across) Think you can beat my time? 
MAGGIE 
smiles -- this is more like the Gabe she remembers. She gets on the wire and starts across in a fast, easy rhythm. 
GABE 
watches her, grinning. Admiration for Maggie is washing away bad memories of Susan. 
GABE (to himself) Shit -- she is in better shape. 
Maggie pulls across fearlessly -- but -- 
INSERT - THE BOLT 
on Gabe's side of the wire is giving where Travers had hacked at it -- just a millimeter, but it's pulling loose -- 
GABE 
doesn't notice and shouts across at Maggie, now half way. 
GABE (enjoying it now) Quit sandbagging it -- I haven't got all day -- 
INSERT - THE BOLT 
is coming looser -- Maggie's quicker crossing is thrashing the wire and straining the bolt's weakened anchoring -- 
where Gabe replants the sign near the top of another slope. Gabe heads down towards some rocks -- -- and spots the third case, which took a tough landing on one rock -- it's shattered into halves, and the bands of $5000s are scattered around in the snow. 
Gabe rushes down behind a rock and starts gathering the cash -- soaked by the snow, they've frozen into ice bricks. As Gabe stuffs them into his pack, he's startled by something coming over the rock -- Gabe whirls around to face 
A RABBIT 
that's landed in the snow and looks a lot more frightened than Gabe was. Gabe leans back, relieved. For now. 
EXT. FURTHER UP ON SLOPE - HAL AND GANG 
are closer now -- but as they move down, Hal freezes in place as he sees the "Bitker" sign some distance ahead. The sign is out of place. A signal from Gabe -- he is alive. And here. 
Qualen and the others check the monitor. Hal takes the opportunity to back up to a rock formation and swiftly, subtly wedge something into a crack behind his back -- 
INSERT - THE OBJECT 
is what Hal lifted off Frank's body -- a speed load cylinder from a revolver, with six fresh bullets in it. 
QUALEN 
checks the monitor -- the relative position shows they're -- 
QUALEN Almost there. 
-- but Qualen's grin is wiped away as he looks down at -- 
THE MONITOR 
-- the tracer blip is moving -- fast -- away from their position! 
QUALEN'S 
face shifts from incredulity to realization to rage. 
All eyes are on the monitor -- Hal, at the rock formation, has one hand behind his back. 
INSERT - HAL'S HAND 
shakes a box of matches from his sleeve -- he slides a single wooden match halfway out of the pack -- and ignites it with his thumbnail -- 
HAL 
moves away from the rock, to draw their attention from what he's been doing -- 
HAL Oh, no -- you didn't lose another one, did you? 
Delmer clicks off his safety and aims at Hal -- Qualen runs into the woods, guided by the monitor -- Kristel follows. Delmer backs Hal up at gunpoint. Hal deliberately moves in a semi-circle, putting Delmer's back to the rocks. 
DELMER What about him? 
QUALEN (over his shoulder) Kill him! Now! 
Delmer grins as he aims at Hal. 
DELMER Tell me -- where would you like the first half dozen shots to go? 
INSERT - THE MATCH 
has burned more than halfway down to the rest of the box, which is behind the speed load cylinder -- 
HAL AND DELMER 
HAL (hands up) As long as you're taking requests -- how about -- the base of your spine? 
Delmer smiles and starts to squeeze the trigger -- Hal tenses up, it's now or never -- 
INSERT - THE MATCH 
burns down to the box, igniting all the matches -- 
ON DELMER 
as there is the sudden sound of six distinct, consecutive gunshots behind him -- the fire's blasted the powder in all the bullets. Delmer, startled, spins around and FIRES up, FIRES down, FIRES across -- by the time he realizes no one's there and he turns back around to find -- 
-- Hal is gone, vanished into the woods. 
FOLLOWING QUALEN 
through the woods -- up a slope, around a tree, down another slope -- his eyes fixed on the screen and the blip that's zig-zagging just ahead of him. 
QUALEN (tagging headset radio) Travers. Get down here. Now. 
TRAVERS 
is trying to repair the helicopter door when the call comes. 
TRAVERS Have you found the money? 
QUALEN (O.S.) No. Walker has. 
Travers, furious, flings the door aside, jumps into the copter and starts the rotor. 
QUALEN 
is running alone, following the monitor lead -- until he sees a band of $5000s in the snow. Sure he's on the right track, Qualen picks it up and picks up his pace too. But we can see that behind him and higher up -- 
GABE 
who is on a rise behind a rock, watches Qualen's futile pursuit from a distance, amused. Amused, until -- 
KRISTEL You would have lived longer, if you weren't such a smartass. 
Gabe spins his head around -- and his temple smacks into Kristel's gun barrel. 
KRISTEL You telegraphed this kind of stunt with that joke snowman. Too bad for you we're not all gullible. 
Kristel starts to squeeze the trigger. 
Gabe, still prone, reaches out -- the chunk of ice with Qualen's machine gun is floating by. Gabe snatches up the gun and pulls the trigger. Nothing but an empty CLICK. 
QUALEN Far more intimidating when it's loaded. 
The chunk of ice with Gabe's ice axe floats by Gabe -- Gabe grabs for it, but misses -- as the ice raft spins around, Qualen manages to snatch it up -- Qualen scythes it down at Gabe, slamming the blade into the ice as Gabe rolls away -- 
WIDER VIEW - THE ICE RAFT 
is nearing the center of the whirlpool -- the current is faster and stronger here -- if it doesn't swallow the ice raft, it will definitely upend it -- 
QUALEN AND GABE 
stay on opposite sides of the ice raft for balance -- Qualen swings out at Gabe with the axe. Gabe ducks and tries to go low to hit Qualen with the gun, but Qualen swings the axe down again, whizzing right past Gabe as it sinks into -- 
THE CENTER OF THE ICE RAFT 
-- a crack spiderwebs through the ice around the blade -- 
GABE 
quickly reacts, jumping onto another bed-sized chunk of ice floating by, landing on his stomach and braking himself by digging his crampons in -- just as -- 
QUALEN 
realizing what deep shit he's in, looks for another chunk of ice to make the same move -- to sees one just out of reach. Qualen pulls the ice axe out of the raft's center to drag the other chunk closer in -- -- as he does, the entire raft disintegrates under him -- Qualen plunges into the water, and tries to maintain a slippery grip on what ice is left -- 
-- but now at the center of the whirlpool, Qualen is drawn into the vortex -- 
GABE 
struggles to his feet and looks down, wincing -- 
GABE'S POV - QUALEN GOING DOWN 
Qualen's inaudible scream is just a burst of rising bubbles as he shoots down to the bottom of the lake -- and beyond -- 
QUALEN'S POV - UNDERWATER 
Qualen is shoved with incredible force and speed through the lake's tunnel drain -- 
ON THE MOUNTAIN WALL - THE WATERFALL 
BLASTS OUT full force, hurling a still thrashing Qualen a half a mile to the ground below! 
GABE 
has no time to celebrate -- the chunk of ice he's on leaves him moments from the same fate. One more time around, and it's down the drain. Gabe takes a deep breath. No choice. He leaps -- 
WIDER VIEW - THE ICE - GABE LEAPING 
-- from one chunk of ice to the other, running the way you would across stones in a stream, zig-zagging to catch the ones big enough to support him -- only his crampons keep him from sliding off, only his momentum keeps him from capsizing the ice chunks, which shoots away from him in his wake -- 
GABE 
lands on an ice raft floating towards the bridge. No choice -- Gabe lunges off the ice raft and reaches for one of the bridge supports -- his hand catches -- but it's slippery and he's weakened -- Gabe slides off, but -- 
A HAND 
reaches down and grabs him -- 
HAL 
pulls Gabe the rest of the way onto the bridge. Gabe's surprise gives way to a grin almost as big as Hal's. 
HAL (eyeing Gabe's ruined shirt) Nice outfit. (hands him his parka) I know you never liked the orange, but 
GABE Didn't care for the Smokey The Bear hats, either. That's why I quit. (pulls on parka) You all right? 
HAL I feel better than you look. I can live with that. 
Gabe looks down at the parka -- it's completely full of bullet holes. 
GABE Hardly seems worth zipping, huh? (serious now) Frank? 
Hal sobers -- shakes his head no. A cloud passes over Gabe's face. 
HAL It's not over, Gabe. Travers took the helicopter. 
INSIDE HELICOPTER - FLYING ELSEWHERE OVER MOUNTAIN 
Maggie's hands are cuffed to a bar on the helicopter's roof. Travers keys his headset radio while piloting the copter. 
TRAVERS (into radio) Qualen -- Kristel -- come in -- 
HAL AND GABE ON BRIDGE 
Gabe hears Hal's borrowed headset radio crackling -- he holds his hand out to Hal. 
GABE May I? (dons it, keys it) They can't talk right now, Travers. Kristel's busy making snow angels -- and I'm not sure, but I think Qualen is still falling. (radio silence) Any messages? 
A moment's silence -- then -- 
MAGGIE (O.S.) (over radio) Gabe? 
GABE (keying it) Maggie -- 
INSIDE COPTER - TRAVERS 
yanks the radio off Maggie and puts it back on -- 
TRAVERS (into radio) You wanted to make a trade earlier, Walker -- still interested? 
GABE (O.S.) (pause) I've got the money. Fly to the lake. And if you touch her -- 
Travers cuts off the radio, smiles, and banks the helicopter down around the mountain wall. 
GABE AND HAL ON BRIDGE 
CLOSE ON GABE 
eyes widening with realization. Gabe gets up from the spur and starts running back towards the woods -- several hundred yards from safety -- before he can get very far -- 
THE HELICOPTER 
tops the precipice edge and, sweeping low over the snow, it gets between Gabe and the trees, cutting him off -- 
WOODED AREA - HAL AND MAGGIE 
watch, powerless -- 
HAL He's going to run Gabe down -- 
TRAVERS IN HELICOPTER 
Ashen, hyperventilating, he's running on pure adrenalin and fury as he drives the stick forward -- 
TRAVERS POV - GABE 
is stiff-legging it toward the edge of the mountain -- but he's too banged up to run fast through the thick snow -- 
THE HELICOPTER 
with its skids skipping just over the snow overtakes -- 
GABE 
as he throws himself flat into the snow -- the front of the skid misses Gabe by inches as it blasts over him -- 
THE HELICOPTER 
moves out over the precipice edge -- Travers banks it wide to circle back around for another run -- 
GABE 
gets back up as the helicopter swings back behind him -- 
IN A WOODED AREA 
Hal rips the lining out of one of his pockets and stuffs it into one of the ammo clips -- Maggie stays back as he runs for all he's worth out into the clearing -- 
THE HELICOPTER 
has circled back around, stopping at a hover far back in the clearing -- Travers intends to not just run Gabe over, but to run him off the edge as well -- 
GABE 
lumbers as fast as he can towards the edge -- 
TRAVERS 
knows he has Gabe nailed -- he shoves the stick forward -- 
THE HELICOPTER 
flies forward, skids just inches over the snow -- 
HAL 
runs out to where Travers is heading -- he lights the cloth in the ammo clip -- as 
THE HELICOPTER 
flies past 
IN THE CLEARING 
Hal hurls the clip, with its cloth "fuse" burning down, into the doorless side of the copter -- 
INSIDE THE HELICOPTER 
-- the makeshift bomb bounces to the floor of the cockpit -- Travers sees it and looks down, but -- 
THE "FUSE" 
sputters out -- nothing but glowing embers in the cloth -- 
TRAVERS 
smiles -- nothing to worry about -- he speeds ahead -- 
CLOSE ON THE HELICOPTER'S SKIDS 
as they slice through the top of the snow towards -- 
GABE 
as he runs toward the mountain's edge -- it's just a couple of feet ahead, but the copter is a couple of feet behind -- 
-- as the copter overtakes Gabe, dipping even lower into the snow, he dives off the edge -- 
FOLLOWING GABE - FALLING 
Gabe is at the ladder -- he falls the first twenty feet of the long drop, then grabs a rung on the cable ladder, very painfully stopping his fall -- but in the same split second -- 
THE HELICOPTER 
skid meant to impale Gabe catches the top two rungs of the cable ladder -- 
WIDE SHOT - THE HELICOPTER 
-- caught in the rungs of the cable ladder, the helicopter keeps flying out over the abyss, but as it pulls the cable ladder, it pops out the bolts that hold the ladder in place, rung by rung -- -- still going full tilt, the copter strains against the ladder -- thirty feet of it tethers the copter to the wall -- -- and Gabe is dangling from the center of it. 
ON THE LADDER - GABE 
has one arm hooked around a rung, hanging on for his life as the copter thrashes the ladder up and down -- 
