CODE OF SILENCE 
Written by 
Michael Butler, Dennis Shryack, Mike Gray & John Mason 
Story by 
Michael Butler & Dennis Shryack 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
EXT. CHICAGO - NIGHT TO DAWN 
Thundering north through the glass canyons of the Loop, the elevated train SCREECHES through the city awakening. As it races north across the river past ancient factories giving way to high rise splendor, lights glistening against the dawn, we see the complex business of bringing a city to life in the morning. 
On the Near North Side an assortment of revelers are winding up their night on the town. 
The pressmen loiter outside the Tribune loading docks, and fishing boats are outbound through the Chicago River locks. 
A streetsweeping crew moves through the Fulton Market, Chicago's central meat and produce distribution center. 
At the Merchandise Mart platform the elevated train picks up two old cleaning ladies wearing babushkas. 
EXT. ALLEY - DAY 
The el train RUMBLES north past the aging tenements of Uptown into the Belmont Avenue Station. 
And down below, a garbage truck is slowly working its way up the alley. A garbage man in city overalls WHISTLES to the driver and the truck stops. He rolls a can to the grinding jaw as the driver sits, tense and alert, scanning the street. 
There's something odd about this driver. And the garbage man too, for that matter. 
EXT. EL PLATFORM - DAY 
SPIDER, a nervous looking black man, steps out onto the platform. As the train pulls away we see him reach into his shirt pocket and CLICKS his ball point pen a couple of times. He WHISPERS into it. It is a concealed radio transmitter. 
SPIDER Say, hey, Cub fans, I hope to hell y'all down there cause we got a big game today. 
He heads for the stairs and the street below. 
INT. TRUCK CAB - DAY 
The truck cab is equipped with a police radio. The driver, RICH DONATO, adjusts the volume. Over the SPEAKER, HEAVY WITH STATIC, we can hear the SOUND of the RECEDING EL TRAIN. 
SPIDER (V.O.) (from radio) The school bus be waitin. 
Donato motions for the garbage man. 
EXT. ALLEY - DAY 
EDDIE CUSACK jumps up on the truck's running board and sticks his head in. On the seat beside Donato is a sledgehammer and a sawed off automatic rifle. The two men stare at each other as they concentrate on the CRACKLING RADIO. 
SPIDER (V.O.) (from radio) S'happenin, Doc? 
DOC (V.O.) (from radio) Hey, I got it all right here, my man. Jus be waitin on you. 
SPIDER (V.O.) (from radio) We ain't got far to go. 
EXT. EL STATION - DAY 
DOC is at the wheel of a late model Cadillac. Spider gets in and they pull slowly away from the curb. 
EXT. EL STATION - DAY 
At the corner in a beat up Pontiac are officers MUSIC and BRENNAN. The two rough looking detectives follow Doc's car through half closed eyes. 
They also HEAR Spider's TRANSMITTER. The quality of the reception improves as Spider and his antennae clear the steel support structure of the el platform. 
The garbage truck GRINDS forward and halts again. Eddie comes up to the cab. He is wearing a gun under his overalls. He and Donato listen on the RADIO to the CONVERSATION coming from inside the building. 
INT. COMACHO FRONT STAIRS - DAY 
A muscular Latino, POMPAS COMACHO, leads Spider and Doc down the paint-peeling corridor. The SOUND of BABIES CRYING and FAMILIES WAKING gives a sense of teeming humanity behind every door. 
The Latino knocks at a door heavily fortified with burglar bars. The door opens. The bars are unlocked. 
SPIDER How y'all doin? 
VOICE (V.O.) (from within) It's O.K. O.K. Como esta? 
Pompas leaves the two men and heads down the stairs toward the front door. 
INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY 
Doc and Spider enter. They're patted down. 
A sleepy eyed Latino woman comes to stand in the bedroom doorway. VICTOR COMACHO barks at her in Spanish, and she disappears into the bedroom. 
EXT. ALLEY - DAY 
Eddie stands on the running board of the truck with Donato at the wheel. They listen to the RADIO. 
DOC (V.O.) (from radio) Hey, man, we're clean, huh. We ain't fools. 
SPIDER (V.O.) You do that real nice, Pancho. what say we get married. 
Eddie tosses a soiled Rubic's Cube into Donato's lap. 
EDDIE Found you a present. 
DONATO Shit, those things will fuck up your mind. 
EXT. CEMETERY - DAY 
Cragie is watching over the wall with his binoculars. He looks back at Kosalas, who is hopping from foot to foot. 
CRAGIE If you gotta take a leak, do it now. 
KOSALAS I can't go wading in with my shlong flapping in the wind. 
CRAGIE Sure you can. It's called diversionary tactics. 
Cragie laughs and swigs straight from the bottle. The RADIO CRACKLES. 
BRENNAN (V.O.) (from radio) What's going on in the ballpark? 
DONATO (V.O.) (from radio) Don't get froggy. Wait for the green light. 
EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY 
A painter's van passes Brennan's Pontiac and parks in front of the building half way up the block. 
INT. BRENNAN'S CAR - DAY 
Music doesn't like this. 
MUSIC What the hell is this cat up to? 
BRENNAN Going to work asshole. What do you think. 
MUSIC At this hour. 
BRENNAN They got a hardass for a boss. Like us. 
EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY 
INT. PAINTER'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Tony and his men face the window across the gangway. Two of them hold sawed off double barreled shotguns. Tony counts it down, and they all fire as one. 
One GIANT BLAST tears into the window. It disintegrates. 
The four men toss aside their empty guns, and grab other guns. 
EXT. GANGWAY - DAY 
Eddie HEARS THE GUNFIRE and hits the wall. He sees the glass showering down around him. He vaults over the backyard fence and head for the porch stairs. 
EXT. CEMETERY - DAY 
Kosalas is finally pissing against the wall. 
KOSALAS I knew it. 
Cragie is using the crate to climb the wall. He is up and over, and falls to the ground on the other side. He's still trying to get to his feet when Kosalas comes over. 
They start running, yanking their guns out. 
INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY 
Doc and Spider are blown backwards in their chairs. One of the cousins has fallen across the piles of money and drugs. Victor and the other cousin are slumped on the floor. The woman in the bedroom is screaming. 
Through the jagged glass around the window frame, Tony's boys shove a broad plank. 
EXT. GANGWAY - DAY 
Three floors up, we see the "painters" rush across the gangway to the other building. 
EXT. COMACHO BACK STAIRS - DAY 
EFREN COMACHO, the heavyweight guarding the back door, is distracted by the SHOUTS and GUNFIRE upstairs. Eddie crashes through the door and Efren spins just in time to meet Eddie's blurring attack. 
The struggle on the landing is brief. Efren's size is no match for Eddie's speed and power. With a grunt he sags to the floor. 
Eddie leaps over him and bounds up the steps. 
EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY 
Brennan, Music and Kobas are now on their way, using parked cars to cover their advance toward the front door of the Comacho building. 
EXT. COMACHO BACK STAIRS - DAY 
Eddie passes the second floor landing and takes a quick look up the porch stairs. The door to the second floor apartment starts to open behind him. He spins and kicks it. 
There stands a terrified old woman looking up the barrel of his gun. 
EDDIE (shouts) Police! No se mueve! 
He spins and bounds up the stairway. 
INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY 
The woman is huddled in a corner, still screaming. Tony comes to stand over her, and coldly shoots her. Then he rips off his mask and goggles as his boys clear the bodies and scoop up the drugs and money from the table. 
Victor Comacho lies slumped against the wall, one side of his face and one shoulder bloodied. He appears dead, eyes open. But then he blinks once. 
INT. COMACHO BACK STAIRS - DAY 
Eddie has entered the rear of the apartment. He moves cautiously forward. 
INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY 
Tony and his partners start back over the gangway to the other building. Vito is bringing up the rear. 
Kosalas, down the hallway, hugs the wall, petrified. 
KOSALAS Cragie?! 
CRAGIE It's O.K. I got the sonovabitch. 
Kosalas creeps ahead, gun drawn, just in time to see Cragie pull a small handgun from his pocket and lay it in the boys hand. 
Cragie looks up at Kosalas and their eyes meet. 
EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY 
Luna's van, it's windshield shot out, takes the first corner on two wheels. Behind him the police scramble for their blue and whites. Half way down the block, the van lurches into an alley. 
EXT. ALLEY - DAY 
The van hurtles down the alley, splashing through puddles past the loading docks of a packing company. Parked along one side of the end of the alley is a meat truck from the opening montage. A loading ramp leads to the gaping rear doors. 
The thieves have done their homework. The Luna gang slams up the ramp into the rear of the meat truck. 
A bee fy compatriot in a blood stained butcher's smock pulls several sides of beef along the rail and into the truck. With the van concealed, the line of police cars ROAR splashing by. 
INT. PAINTER'S HALL - DAY 
Cragie, kneeling over the body, looks at Kosalas eyeball to eyeball. 
SCREAMS come from within the boy's apartment. 
CRAGIE (yelling into the apartment) Police! Stay where you are! 
They HEAR FOOTSTEPS pounding up the front stairs. Cragie and Kosalas look up. 
Eddie appears at the front of the hall, gun drawn. He sees the boy on the hallway floor. 
He approaches cautiously, taking in the body, the gun, Cragie sitting against the wall, and the distraught Kosalas who stands transfixed by the dead kid. Eddie goes to Kosalas. 
EDDIE Take it easy, Kosalas. 
CRAGIE The kid didn't dust him. I did. 
Eddie looks at Cragie. 
CRAGIE Him or me, Sarge. (pause) The kid saw the whole thing. 
Both Eddie and Cragie look at Kosalas. 
CRAGIE Tell him, Nick. 
It almost sounds like an order. 
Kosalas looks like he's going to be sick. 
KOSALAS (softly) Yeah, that's how it went down. 
EDDIE (pause) Stay here. (to Cragie) Take care of your partner. 
Eddie walks away. 
EXT. GANGWAY - DAY 
The gangway is now filled with squad cars, ambulances, and cops. 
As the paramedics walk Victor Comacho to the ambulance, bloody, bandaged, but very much alive, he and Eddie LOCK EYES for a brief instant. 
Several ferocious looking Comacho relatives have been allowed inside the police lines. One of them steps close to Victor. 
VICTOR (to relative) Call Luis. 
EDDIE You know, it's kind of interesting. That 16 year old in the hallway with the gun? Partida told me he doesn't have a record. The kid's never been arrested. 
KOSALAS Yeah, well, you know, if you read the papers, cops only shoot honor students. Sole support of the family and all that. 
EXT. AIRPORT - DAY 
The airport bristles with corporate jets departing and arriving. 
TOWER (V.O.) ...Lear 9 Lima Kilo number 2 for landing -- wind south 20, altimeter two-niner-niner-two... 
And now comes a mystery jet, wearing no company colors, banking in over Lake Point Tower and WHISTLING low over the Planetarium to a touchdown. 
The white Learjet taxis to a halt at the far end of the field as an undistinguished Buick rolls down the ramp to meet it. 
Eddie and Kosalas stand by their car, parked across the runway from the Learjet. 
The jet's engines shut down, the door opens, and a grim but handsome man emerges. LUIS COMACHO, a cruel and uncompromising survivor, has arrived. With him is an incredibly beautiful exotic woman. 
He is met by Pompas and Efren Comacho, the two lookouts who survived the raid. And Victor Comacho, who was wounded in the raid, is here with his shoulder bandaged. 
EXT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY 
From where Eddie and Kosalas are standing it is impossible to hear the conversation at the Learjet, but it is clear that Luis Comacho is upset. They see Luis slap Pompas and Efren. Then he grabs Victor by both arms, ignoring his wound, and screams at him. 
KOSALAS Nice fellow this Luis Comacho. Donato says they call him the Angel-of-Death. 
Victor grimaces, in great pain, and his knees buckle. 
EDDIE Real sweetheart. 
INT. LUNA'S HOUSE - DAY 
In the dining room DIANA LUNA, a pretty 19 year old, helps her 80 year old grandmother THERESA decorate a "HAPPY BIRTHDAY" banner, some red and green crepe paper. 
MOLLY LUNA (O.S.) Now? 
DIANA No! 
Diana and her grandmother grin at each other. They are done. Theresa stands back to admire their work. 
MOLLY (O.S.) Now? 
DIANA Mama! 
A PHONE RINGS 
DIANA Daddy, would you get that! 
Diana rushes into the kitchen and comes right out with a birthday cake, and sets it on the table next to some presents. 
THERESA Bella. 
Diana goes to the stairs where her mother sits with her hands over her eyes. 
DIANA Keep 'em closed now. 
She leads her mother to the dining room. 
DIANA O.K., open 'em. 
MOLLY LUNA opens her eyes. Theresa and Diana beam. Diana kisses her mother who almost cries. 
DIANA Happy birthday, momma. 
THERESA (in Italian) Happy birthday, Molly. 
Diana hands Molly a card from the table. Molly starts to open it. 
ODELL Bow to your master! 
EDDIE Later, Odell. It's been a rough one. 
ODELL Y' tellin me! We all seen it on the TV! 
WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.) Odell! 
EDDIE Bow to your master. 
Odell takes off. 
EDDIE Hey, Odell. Here, make yourself crazy. 
The kid stops, and Eddie tosses him the Rubic's Cube. 
Eddie nears his apartment, we hear a MALE VOICE SINGING. 
INT. EDDIE'S APARTMENT - DAY 
The door is ajar. Eddie lives in a modest apartment. FRED PIRELLI, a great bear of a man, 65, sings at the top of his lungs. He is bent over the space heater, tearing it apart. 
PIRELLI You look like shit. 
EDDIE Thanks, pal. 
PIRELLI They had a shot on the tube of you guys comin' out in front of the building. How's Donato? 
Eddie collapses on the sofa. 
EDDIE Pissed cause he lost a shoe. (pause) Luis Comacho is in town. 
PIRELLI He'll collect himself some scalps before this one's over. Your answering machine is on the fritz again. Some woman with a fantastic voice was callin' about comin' over this weekend ta help you with somthin', and then the tape went nuts. 
EDDIE Want somthin' to drink? 
PIRELLI Does the Pope shit in the woods? Is a bear Catholic? 
ODELL Me too. 
Odell shows in the doorway. Eddie gets up and the kid tosses him the Rubic's Cube -- all done. 
Eddie looks at it, and the kid goes into the kitchen. 
EDDIE I hate smart ass kids. 
Odell laughs. 
PIRELLI Gonna get down in the 30's tonight. Your pilot light is out. 
Eddie tosses the Cube into the waste basket and opens the refrigerator. 
EDDIE I've been told that more than once. 
PIRELLI (seriously) So, who you figure pulled out the rug? Gypsies? Mob? 
Eddie comes back into the living room, hands a beer and a soda to Odell, and flops back on the sofa with his own beer. 
EDDIE Somebody knew what they were doin'. They blew the top off an anthill. 
Pirelli reaches for his drink and Odell hands him the soda. Pirelli grabs the beer before Odell can drink and switches. 
PIRELLI I'd figure the Mob but Scalese ain't that stupid. (pause) Hah! Sombody put the valve in backwards. 
Pirelli and Odell turn to Eddie who tries to look innocent -- but fails. Eddie purposefully studies the answering machine on the coffee table in front of him. 
WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.) Odell! I ain't calling you again! 
EDDIE Drop it. 
The controller, scared shitless, drops the hand control. 
The Prowler dies -- the plug pulled. 
Eddie smiles at Kates, and exits. 
INT. MORGUE VIEWING ROOM - DAY 
The curtain is drawn back from the viewing window and the Comachos SEE the bodies of their cousins. Luis is here with Pompas, Efren, and Victor. Their attorney, Sanchez, has joined them. They are speaking Spanish. 
SANCHEZ (subtitle) A war does no good for any of us. It can only make what is bad worse. 
Luis says nothing. He looks through the window at the bodies. Finally he speaks. 
LUIS (subtitle) Get them out of here. Fix them up. I want them to be beautiful for their mother. 
He kisses his fingertips and touches the glass. 
LUIS (subtitle) I promise you, my brothers, there will be blood for blood. 
Sanchez sighs. 
INT. MORGUE HALL - DAY 
Luis Comacho storms out of the room into the corridor followed by the others. 
Eddie and Kosalas are just entering. Victor spots Eddie and turns to Luis. 
VICTOR (subtitles) This is the cop. 
The Comachos slow down. The two groups survey each other -- Luis, hatred oozing from his eyes. And Eddie, without slowing, looks the vicious Colombian over with cool contempt. 
Eddie walks by. 
LUIS How much did they pay you to set up my brothers, Pig. 
Eddie freezes, makes a slow turn, and meets Luis' eyes. 
Suddenly Eddie moves, faster than anyone else can react to, and he has Luis pinned to the wall, choking him. 
EDDIE Stay off my streets, asshole. Or I'll bite your head off, and shit in your neck. 
He releases Luis just as quickly, and turns to walk out, Kosalas backing with him, hand on gun. 
Luis gets some air back, and starts to scream. 
LUIS (subtitle) You're meat cop! Dead meat! 
The other Comachos have to restrain him. 
INT. MORGUE EXAMINING ROOM - DAY 
Retired detective HANK FLANNIGAN runs the high-tech morgue where the bodies are stacked on trays like bakery buns. Flannigan, a trim, bespectacled Mr. Clean, clicks his false teeth between thoughts. 
The body on the exotic lab table is the gunman Eddie shot during the raid. Eddie is here to confirm the identification. His new partner, Kosalas, is with him, very uncomfortable in this setting. 
FLANNIGAN Eenie Verona is the gentleman's name. (looks down) You did a hell of a job on him. 
EDDIE I was motivated. 
Flannigan has already pulled Verona's record. He hands it to Eddie who passes it on to Kosalas without looking at it. Kosalas concentrates on the file, uneasy with the dead. 
FLANNIGAN Know him? 
EDDIE He's a punk. Punk thief. Booster. 
EDDIE (V.O.) Just watch, kid. Learn. 
Diana leaves the children with the zoo lecturer. 
DIANA Be back in a minute. 
She crosses to the two goons and looks up at Gamiani. 
DIANA What do you want? 
LOU Your Papa worries about you. 
DIANA Get out of here, Lou. Leave me alone. 
Gamiani shrugs, his pal Tito seems embarrassed, but they don't move. 
INT. GORILLA HOUSE - DAY 
The CHILDREN SCREAM, and LULU, the half-ton baboon flies into frame, swinging down from the artificial branches of an iron tree in the three story central cage. The children clutch at Diana in delightful terror. The gorilla, inches away, kisses the thick glass that separates them. 
Lulu swings to the upper branches and sits, arms crossed, staring eyeball-to-eyeball at her human counterpart, Gamiani. Tito eats popcorn. 
Eddie and Kosalas walk behind a mother and child, each holding a balloon. 
EXT. LIBRARY - DAY 
Diana is on the front steps of the library saying good-bye to two of the children from the zoo. She hands them over to their mothers, and goes up the steps into the building. 
Gamiani and Tito pull over and park down the street. 
Eddie comes around the corner, and follows her in. 
INT. LIBRARY HALL - DAY 
The sign on the door tells us this is the city's Special Education Program office. Diana enters the office and confers briefly with another staff member. 
INT. LIBRARY HALL - DAY 
Through the open door of the Special Education Program office, Eddie observes Diana chatting with her co-workers. 
INT. READING ROOM - DAY 
Eddie follows as Diana walks through the great hall past long tables and out the other door. 
EXT. LIBRARY - DAY 
Diana comes down the steps, wading through the swarm of homebound commuters, and catches a cab. 
And head and shoulders above the crowd, scanning the tops of heads, is Lou Gamiani. 
Tito comes around the corner in his car, and pulls up to the curb. Gamiani jumps in, and they take off after Diana's cab. 
Eddie and Kosalas follow in Eddie's car. 
EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 
Diana enters an apartment building. 
EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 
By the time Diana exits it is dark. She is with a friend, and both are in some kind of Halloween costume. They catch a cab. 
EXT. PARTY STREET - NIGHT 
The taxi stops in front of an ancient brick loft building. Diana and her friend get out and hit the buzzer at an unmarked door. The door opens and they disappears inside. 
Gamiani's car cruises past. It pulls up at the corner and it's lights switch off. 
DIANA Hey, what the hell do you think you're doing? 
EDDIE I thought you knew all about cops. You don't put anything up your nose do you? 
Eddie searches Diana's purse. He find her drivers license. 
EDDIE Diana Luna? (pause) You're Tony Luna's daughter? 
He drops the license into the purse and hands it back to her. She stares him in the eye defiantly. 
DIANA I don't know where he is, and I don't really give a shit. (tired) When are you people going to realize I don't have anything to do with my father. 
Eddie tries to give her his card. 
EDDIE For when you need a friend. 
She won't take it. 
DIANA I've got all the friends I want. 
Eddie puts the card into her purse. 
EDDIE But do you have all the friends you need? 
She walks away angrily. Eddie watches her leave, and then steps over a few of the wasted witches to get to the phone on the drug laden coffee table. He dials. 
EDDIE (to phone) This is Sergeant Cusack. I want a team to cover a house on the southwest side. (pause) L-U-N-A, Anthony. (pause) Yeah. Crazy Tony Luna. I don't think he's around, but if he shows up bring him in. 
The dope-smoking party-goers stare at this cop in shock. One of the ladies tries to casually cover the cocaine with a magazine. Eddie hangs up the phone, and pushes past them to the door. 
EDDIE (nods) Catch you later. 
He is out the door. 
INT. GYM - DAY 
Several plainclothes officers, some of them women, stand on either side of the door with their backs to the wall, guns at the ready. One of the men reaches out and POUNDS on the door. 
OFFICER Police! Open up! 
They rush the door and SMASH it, SHOUTING and scrambling into the apartment. 
KOBAS (V.O.) (from bullhorn) Awright awright hold it. 
The instructor, Kobas, walks in criticizing their style. 
KOBAS For Christ's sake! You tryin to get your partner killed, Jackson? 
This is not the real thing; only practice. 
CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL -- 
INT. GYM - DAY 
The apartment is only a mockup set in the corner of this vast skylit city warehouse. Runners race around the track at the perimeter. 
On the wall are large photos and diagrams of the Prowler. Below the photos are sign-up sheets for the required training sessions. 
In another corner is the weight room, the ring, and the workout area. Eddie is here, working out, sparring with a partner who has large padded mits on each hand. 
INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY 
Brennan and a couple of buddies approach Kosalas as he ties his gym shoes. Brennan is carrying a petition. He hands it to Kosalas and looks around the room. He spots another cop. Cragie is in the background putting on his jacket. 
BRENNAN (shouts across the room) Hey, Mahoney. I want you to help me get some signatures on this letter for Cragie. 
Brennan looks down at Kosalas who is hesitating. Kosalas looks back at Cragie. There eyes meet. He signs. 
Luis Comacho is in the limo along with the woman from the airport. 
INT. BRENNAN'S CAR - DAY 
Brennan and Music are following the procession. Brennan is on the radio. 
MUSIC (to mike) The funeral director says they plan on cruisin right past luna's house. 
EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY 
Tito, one of Tony Luna's bodyguards, watches from the steps of Luna's porch as a procession of cars follows the hearses slowly up the street. 
At the end of the block, an old man is selling produce to the neighborhood housewives off the tailgate of his truck. They watch the procession in wonder. 
INT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY 
The cortege passes the unmarked car down the block from Tony's house. Eddie is watching. Kosalas is with him. 
KOSALAS (to radio) They're wastin' the show. Tony's not even in town. 
EDDIE He'll get the word. 
Across the street, WE SEE another bodyguard joint Tito on the front steps. They stand, arms folded, watching the procession. 
INT. LIMO - DAY 
Luis Comacho takes a flower and tosses it out the window as he cruises past the two goons. Their EYES LOCK. Tito walks up and grinds the flower into the ground with his shoe. 
EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY 
Brennan and Music bring up the rear in their ummarked car. 
INT. LUNA'S HOUSE - DAY 
Tito, the body guard, picks up the phone. 
EXT. LAKE - DAY 
At the pay phone next to a lakeside bait shop, Tony Luna is getting the word. He's worried. 
LUNA (to phone) What the fuck are you talkin about? Nobody's gonna touch nothin. Just stay put. (pause) I give a shit about their fuckin parade? 
A floozy slides up next to him, and he puts an arm around her waist. 
LUNA (to phone) They wanna throw flowers we can fix it so they're pushing up daisys. 
He laughs. The girl joins in like she's supposed to. 
EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
A tan Dodge rolls over the rutted scrapyard roadway, bouncing toward the immense old warehouse along the river's edge. The city seems to have abandoned this remote industrial area; giant grain elevators, rusting freighters and vast scrapyards surround us. 
INT. POMPAS' CAR - DAY 
Pompas and Efren Comacho drive through the gate and enter the warehouse as the door opens for them. 
INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
The car halts in the vast empty chamber. It is quickly surrounded by members of the Comacho family. They begin to unload the car. The trunk is filled with cases of heavy ammunition. 
At the back of the warehouse, other Comachos are test firing their weapons. 
INT. LUIS' OFFICE 
Luis is directing things as they are preparing for battle. The weaponry spread on the table is astonishing. 
EXT. HARBOR - DAY 
Kosalas is still sounding the HORN. 
EXT. HARBOR - DAY 
Eddie runs toward the car. 
EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY 
A body lies in the flowers in the service area next to the giant greenhouse. Several unmarked cars and two blue and whites are parked in the dirt drive as Eddie and Kosalas pull up. The cops have roped off the area. Music and Brennan are there. 
Eddie looks at the body as Music comes over. 
MUSIC Tony Luna's bagman. 
Kosalas looks at the body. 
MUSIC They call that a Columbian necktie. 
Kosalas winces. 
MUSIC They found the manager of Tony's restaurant hanging from a hook in his kitchen. Looked like someone tried to carve a canoe out of him. Tony's used car lot on Ashland is burning as we speak. The head salesman is a fried zuccini. 
KOSALAS Oh Jesus. It's starting. 
Eddie stands to one side. 
EDDIE Let's go. 
EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY 
A kid on a bike makes his way up the quiet tree-lined street, tossing newspapers onto the porches of the block. 
Around the corner at the end of the block, the produce truck starts slowly forward. As it turns onto Luna's block, a car pulls up behind it and stops, blocking the street. 
The produce truck parks at the curb in front of the Luna house. A neighbor from across the street approaches. The front door of Luna's house opens, and Tito emerges, helping Tony's aged mother down the steps to buy vegetables. 
INT. PRODUCE TRUCK - DAY 
On the floor near the wheelwell is the dead produce man. 
EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY 
The rear doors of the produce truck swing open. The neighbor, Tito, and Tony's mother are instantly killed. 
From outside three Comachos enter the open front door of the Luna house. We hear the SOUND of MUFFLED GUNFIRE from inside. 
INT. LUNA'S HOUSE - DAY 
Bits and pieces. A Shattered orange juice container. Eggs cooking on the stove. A woman's vanity. 
On the floor; a woman's legs, a housecoat, slippers. A silhouette of a Comacho in the hallway RAKING one of Tony's guards. 
A family photo on the mantle which includes Diana and her father is BLASTED to bits. 
EXT. LUNA'S BACK YARD - DAY 
One of Tony's men tries to escape through the back of the house. He is pursued by a Comacho who guns him down. 
EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY 
Luis Comacho sits in a car in the next block surveying the scene. The cousins are walking briskly out. They jump in a car and drive off. 
INT. LUIS' CAR - DAY 
Luis nods to his driver. They pull away. 
EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY 
EXT. WABASH AVENUE - DAY 
In the shadow of the el tracks, Diana runs for her life, racing north on Wabash through crowds of shoppers with the Comachos moving relentlessly a half block behind. 
Opposite Marshall Field's, she abruptly cuts across traffic and runs into an alley between the giant men's and women's stores. 
With terror in her eyes, Diana runs, searching frantically for a guard, a policeman, somebody with a gun. But the Comachos are closing in on her. 
She dives through a revolving door into the building. 
INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY 
Diana runs past the perfume displays, notions, and lingerie, and out the Randolph Street exit. 
EXT. RANDOLPH STREET - DAY 
Two Camachos, who stayed on the street, spot her as she leaves. 
Racing through the alley, Eddie spots them running in the next block. 
EXT. LAKE STREET - DAY 
Running east on Lake Street, she glances over her shoulder. She doesn't see them. She ducks into the alley. But the Comachos round the corner just in time to catch a glimpse of her. 
EXT. ALLEY - DAY 
This alley leads to the lower level of Michigan Avenue. She turns back to find the exit blocked by the Comachos. She flees downward. 
INT. LOWER MICHIGAN - DAY 
The green flourescents of the "Emerald City" give a deathly cast to the underground street as Diana rounds the corner, and collapses against the wall. Her heart pounding like a frightened deer, she has run as far as she can. 
Pompas Comacho and two of his colleagues come racing around the corner. They spot her crouched against the wall. 
She starts to SCREAM but Angel grabs her by the collar and pulls her up to his face and she stops, wide-eyed with terror as he touches her throat with his knife. 
POMPAS Come on, Chika. We gonna have some fun. You gonna take us to your father. 
We hear a loud metallic CLICK. We see the barrel of a huge revolver. They wheel to see Eddie crouched, gun drawn, in the alley entrance. 
EDDIE Pompas, you're getting to be a fucking pain in the ass. 
The boys put their hands up, but Eddie doesn't see the third, SAMO, coming up behind him. 
Angel grabs Diana by the hair, shielding himself, and starts backing up the stairs that lead to the street. 
EDDIE Let her go, pooch. 
Samo jumps Eddie, and the gun goes flying. It hits the pavement and bounces off the high curb into the street. 
In a staggering blur Eddie takes out the Comachos, kicking the last one end over end. But Angel and the girl have disappeared to the street above. 
Eddie retrieves his gun and runs up the steps. 
EXT. STATE LAKE EL STATION - DAY 
With a knife at her side, Angel Comacho leads Diana up the steps of the old el station. They pass through the turnstyle out onto the platform just as the train pulls to in. Angel forces her onto the train. 
Eddie comes pounding up the steps and onto the platform just in time to stop the closing train door with his foot. 
INT. EL TRAIN - DAY 
Eddie wedges his way aboard and the train pulls out. The passengers looks at him like he's crazy. 
Eddie works his way through the cars toward the rear. 
Angel spots him. Knife still in hand, he pulls Diana from car to car past the terrified passengers until finally he is cornered at the end of the train. Angel searches frantically for a way out. 
DIANA I'll take my chances. 
NOTE: Ad lib dialogue throughout scene for possible later use. 
NOTE: Radio newscast describing the Luna killings can be mixed with the above dialogue. 
INT. EDDIE'S HALL - NIGHT 
Eddie and Diana climb the stairs. 
INT. PIRELLI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
The DOORBELL buzzes repeatedly. 
PIRELLI (shouts) Keep your goddamn pants on! 
Pirelli, padding across the floor in his shorts, looks like a bear called out of hibernation. He has a service revolver in his hand. He peers through the peep hole, then unbolts the door. 
PIRELLI This your idea of a social call? 
Eddie enters with Diana. 
EDDIE Fred Pirelli, this is Diana. Diana Luna. 
Pirelli reacts to the name. 
Diana is in a daze, close to shock. 
Pirelli takes her and leads her to the couch. 
PIRELLI C'mon, kid. Let's get you off your feet. 
Eddie motions him aside. 
EDDIE Can you put her up till I find her old man? 
PIRELLI Does a bear...? 
EDDIE Am I putting you on the spot? 
PIRELLI I spent 30 years on the spot. What ever you need. 
Eddie starts to go, and Diana reacts, suddenly frightened. 
DIANA Eddie? 
EDDIE I'll be right across the hall. I'm just gonna clean up. 
He leaves. 
INT. EDDIE'S APARTMENT 
Eddie falls fully clothed onto the mattress. The PHONE RINGS. 
He rolls over in disbelief, staring at the ceiling. 
It RINGS, and RINGS again and again and again. He finally picks it up. 
INT. TAVERN - NIGHT 
This is the after-hours watering hole for the police force and half the cops we've seen so far, including Cragie, are clustered at the bar or playing darts at the back of the room. There are a half a dozen women there also. Three of them are cops. 
Kosalas is here too. He's been drinking. He leans against the wall talking on the pay phone by the men's room. 
KOSALAS (to phone) Say, Eddie. Why don' you come by and tip a few? (pause) Cause I gotta talk to you. (pause) Yeah, I know. But we gotta talk. (pause) Please. (pause) Yeah, at Mike's. 
He hangs up and heads back to his table, passing Officer Music at the bar. 
EDDIE Not now, Donato. 
DONATO O.K. O.K. But just let me plant two words in your brain. Alligator farming. 
Eddie shakes his head and walks to the back of the room where Kosalas sits hunched over a drink, the only man in the room not laughing. He looks up whens Eddie pulls over a chair. 
KOSALAS Beer? 
Eddie nods, and Kosalas signals the waitress. There is a long beat at Kosalas fidgets and Eddie waits. 
KOSALAS Looks like I'm caught between the rock and the hard place, Sarge. 
Eddie just looks at him. 
KOSALAS You know I really wanted to be a good cop, but... shit. It's hard enough sometimes just to stay alive. Comes so easy to you. You got all the fuckin' answers. Me, I'm still tryin' to find the questions. 
Eddie is still silent. Kosalas takes a swig of his beer, and finally blurts is out. 
KOSALAS Cragie planted the gun on the kid. Just wasted him, and then I... I don't know what to do about the hearing tomorrow... 
EDDIE Tell the truth. 
KOSALAS See. It's all so nothin' for you. If I talk straight every cop on the force will shit on me. If I don't... Cragie gets away with murder. 
EDDIE And the chance to do it again. Next time he might take away a cop. That make any difference? 
KOSALAS He's my partner. 
EDDIE Your partner's selling you out, Kosalas. He kills an unarmed kid, and now he's risking your ass to save his own. 
KOSALAS It was a mistake. 
EDDIE It cost an innocent kid his life. 
KOSALAS I know that! I KNOW THAT! 
He is too loud, and attracts attention. 
KOSALAS (softly) Jesus. I see that kid's face every time I close my eyes. 
EDDIE Tell 'em like it is, Nick. I'll back you up. 
Eddie gets up and walks away. 
INT. TAVERN - NIGHT 
The two amateur holdup men are being hustled out to the paddy wagon as Eddie heads for the door. Someone grabs his arm. 
It's Cragie, a little drunk. 
CRAGIE Nice to see you out with the boys for a change, Sarge. 
EDDIE Hello, Cragie. 
CRAGIE They tell me my Sergeant wouldn't sign for me. You want to tell me why? 
EDDIE You know why. 
CRAGIE No. Tell me. 
EDDIE (gently) You were a good cop for a lot of years. You've passed your limit now Cragie. 
CRAGIE Fuck you. Where do you get off? 
EDDIE Right about here. 
Eddie walks out the door. 
Cragie is neat as a pin, humble, cooperative to a fault. 
PARTIDA You have heard her tell this panel that she saw you lay the gun in her grandson's hand. 
He feigns compassion. 
CRAGIE I'm not saying the woman would make this up. But there's no way she could have seen anything from where she was standing in a hallway that dark. (pause) Like you said, she's the boy's grandmother. 
PARTIDA If it was dark, Officer, how were you sure Vega had a gun? 
CRAGIE We were lucky. There was a glint of light, a reflection comin off the barrel of the weapon. 
EXT. EDDIE'S ALLEY - DAY 
A carload of Comachos, including Luis, cruises down the street and parks in the alley next to Eddie's building. 
INT. OPS HALL - DAY 
The hearing is in recess and the hall is filled with smokers and coffee drinkers. 
Eddie is getting a BUSY SIGNAL on the pay phone. 
Donato approaches. 
DONATO You think he'll get a pass? 
EDDIE You heard it all. What do you think? 
DONATO If the hearing was over I'd have to put my money on the old lady. (smiles) But Kosalas's next. My bet's on Cragie. 
EDDIE The kid may surprise you. 
Eddie dials the number again. Still a busy signal. 
INT. PIRELLI'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Pirelli has Eddie's answering machine plugged in, and is tinkering with the insides. 
Diana comes into the living room, toweling her wet hair, just out of the shower, but in her street clothes. 
INT. HEARING ROOM - DAY 
Kosalas is on the witness stand. 
PARTIDA And right after you heard Officer Cragie's gun discharge, what did you do then? 
KOSALAS I immediately advanced down the hall. 
PARTIDA And what did you see? 
KOSALAS The deceased, Vega, lying on the floor. Officer Cragie was checking his vital signs. 
PARTIDA What happened then? 
KOSALAS We recovered a .25 calibre automatic from the teenager's right hand. 
PARTIDA Did you see that weapon in Vega's hand before Officer Cragie fired? 
KOSALAS Yes, sir. 
Cragie leans back. 
A ripple is felt in the crowd. The reaction of the boy's relatives, delayed by translation, is one of outrage. 
PARTIDA No more questions. 
As Kosalas steps down he keeps his eyes on the floor ahead of him avoiding eye contact. 
This bi-level street is as different as night and day. The lower level's eerie green lights make us feel like we're under water. Iron girders and concrete pillars support the street above. 
LOW WIDE ANGLE 
The Cadillac races through this vast man-made cavern, past the sub-level loading docks and service entrances of skyscrapers above. City work crews and all night commercial deliveries dot both the upper and lower levels of the chase. 
INT. EDDIE'S CAR - NIGHT 
Eddie is gaining in the battered Chevy. The Cadillac rockets up the next ramp to the street level. 
EXT. UPPER WACKER - NIGHT 
The Cadillac zooms up from below, crosses the intersection, and immediately takes the next down-ramp. Eddie flies up from below, briefly airborne, barreling after them into the tunnel. 
EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT 
A block later the Cadillac heads topside again. Eddie takes a gamble and goes straight ahead. 
At the next down-ramp, the Cadillac descends and Tony's boys find themselves doing 70 knots side by side with Eddie in the other lane. 
In the narrow concrete tunnel, the two cars battle each other like bulls in a chute, each one trying to cut the other off, bouncing from each other into the walls and back again. 
INT. CADILLAC - NIGHT 
The goon next to Luna is trying to get a shot off at Eddie. 
SCALESE This sonovabitch is crazy! 
Tony sees his chance and he lunges for the gun. In the struggle, the gun goes off and drills Rocco, the driver, through the side of the head. 
EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT 
The Cadillac ROARS out of control, its dead driver's foot pressing the accelerator to the floor. Scalese, in the front seat, tries to grab the wheel. 
Eddie is all over the road trying to avoid them. The river and the curve are ahead. 
Scalese's car hits the median at high speed, rolls, and slides SCREAMING into a concrete pillar and EXPLODES. 
Eddie stands on the brakes as his car slides alongside the flaming wreckage. 
INT. EDDIE'S CAR - NIGHT 
Eddie's car is on fire now, and the doors have been rammed shut. He kicks the window out on the passenger side. 
EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT 
Eddie runs for his life. The explosion knocks him to his knees. 
He gets up and moves away, looking back at Luna's and Scalese's spectacular funeral pyre. 
EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT 
The fire engines and police cars are arriving from every direction. 
With the flames still lighting his face, Eddie is making a call. 
EDDIE You tell Luis I got Tony Luna for him. Get me a time and place. 
INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
Diana is in bad shape. She is tied up. Numb with terror she listens, not comprehending, as the Comachos discuss their plans for her in Spanish. 
Luis comes over to her, and with his knife begins cutting off part of her clothes. 
LUIS Your cop friend is smart. Too smart and he dies. Then I take care of you personally. 
EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT 
With one hand Kosalas slams Cragie again, and reaches down with his free hand, lifting Cragie's pants leg and extracting a drop-gun from it's concealed holster. 
KOSALAS What's this for partner? Your next fuck up? 
Kates steps in and separates them. 
KATES (to the others) Get someone in the air. We're gonna find Cusack. 
INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
Diana, now hanging from her wrists like a slab of beef, is guarded by a couple of Luis' boys, eyeing her hungrily. 
Luis enters. 
LUIS (subtitles) Take off the gag. I want them to hear her. 
EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
Luis scans the daybreak sky. He and Efren take up positions. Above them and around them, every line of fire is covered. 
EXT. GRAIN ELEVATOR - DAY 
From the lookout's POV atop the towering grain elevator, WE SEE several garbage trucks moving in and out of an adjacent dump. 
One of them seems familiar to us. 
INT. TRUCK CAB - DAY 
Eddie's eyes search the harbour as he maneuvers slowly alongside a rusting freighter. He stops and gets out. 
EXT. GRAIN ELEVATOR - DAY 
Eddie opens the rear of the truck and lowers a ramp. 
EDDIE Here we go partner. 
He picks up his gun and a duffle bag from the cab and heads out. 
INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
The Comachos are ready and waiting. Luis walks through the middle of the vast empty plant toward the front, checking on his troops one last time. 
EXT. DOCK - DAY 
Against the grotesque shapes of the surrounding scrapyards, Eddie moves quickly from one concealment to the next, crouched low, advancing on the abandoned factory at the end of the dock. 
He lays down his duffle and pulls out a Halliburton case. He opens it. 
EXT. GRAIN ELEVATOR - DAY 
From inside the garbage truck WE HEAR an ENGINE STARTING. It REVS a couple of times. And from within the container compartment of the truck emerges the Prowler. It clatters down the ramp. 
EXT. GRAIN ELEVATOR - DAY 
The lookout spots the Prowler moving down the dock. He can't believe his eyes. 
He sights on the machine and FIRES. 
And in the distance, the Prowler senses the insult and immediately turns its camera eye up to him. 
The lookout FIRES again. Immediately, the turret swivels and the twin MACHINEGUNS ROAR. 
It's a long way down. 
INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
The SOUND of MACHINEGUN FIRE from outside galvanizes the Comachos. Luis runs through the long building toward the front with half a dozen of his men, all SHOUTING. 
