COLOR OF NIGHT 
Written by 
Billy Ray & Matthew Chapman 
CREDITS 
Credits start on a black screen, then they continue during the whole scene at Michelle's place, and they end at the beginning of the scene at Bill Capa's office. 
MICHELLE'S PLACE - INTERIOR DAY 
Close-up on a silver lipstick stand made into a bad taste musical box. We see Michelle's hand selecting a lipstick then we see Michelle putting the lipstick on her lips, seated in front of the mirror of her dressing table. She is dressed in a green frock, and her face shows that she is quite disturbed. Her apartment's decoration is very heavy, with a lot of various useless objects and gold-plated furniture and many mirrors. She looks for a new dress in her wardrobe, and get mad at not finding it. She then goes to a sofa covered with cushions, which she throws all around the place, still madder at not finding her dress. A cat, who was lying on the armrest of the sofa, runs away hurriedly from the mad Michelle. 
MICHELLE God !...... No !...... 
Michelle is back in front of the mirror of her dressing-table. She takes the lipstick and put a lot of it on her lips, then on her teeth, then all around her mouth. She makes faces to herself in the mirror. She seems more and more disturbed. She takes a chrome-plated revolver in her drawer, starts to put it in her purse, then takes it out, spins the cylinder of the revolver, and puts the revolver in her mouth, as if she wanted to kill herself. But instead, she starts sucking the barrel, while she strokes the revolver in a quite erotic way. 
BILL CAPA' OFFICE - INTERIOR DAY 
Large planes of ground glass. We hear, without understanding them, some voices and laughs. Then a male voice becomes more understandable... 
BILL'S VOICE So who do you think is the enemy ?... No, no, give me a specific answer... 
... then Michelle appears on the screen. She is dressed in a green suit, she is heavily made up, et she still seems very disturbed. The office is very chic and evidently belongs to a very rich New- York psycho-analyst. Beautiful and good taste furniture. Shelves with leather-bound books. 
MICHELLE You are the goddamned enemy, Capa, you and this all tower of psycho-babble. You know what I hope ? That God gets real pissed off and He shrivels up your cock, so that it points straight down to Hell, where you belongs !... 
During this reply, Bill Capa has appeared on the screen. He is seated. He is wearing a long-sleeve shirt, a necktie, but no jacket. He laughs at Michelle's last sentence. 
BILL OK... Michelle, so you will become His Avenging Angel, and swoop down to finish me off. He stands up. 
MICHELLE Now, I finally get it : you're are like my ex-husband. You think that everything got to be either black or white because you got color-blind. But God is on my side now. He knows I'm not like you 
BILL Well, we are pretty much the same, Michelle. We all do it. 
MICHELLE We all do what ? 
BILL Tend to view our lives as we were looking through a keyhole. I's a very limited view of the truth. So, we have to fill in the blanks. We invent things. 
MICHELLE I don't know what you mean. 
BILL You invent enemies to test your strength against. You invent gods to protect you from these enemies. 
MICHELLE Cutting him. What a depressing view of life you have, that is such horse-shit ! 
BILL Who is the enemy ? One minute you have friends, the next moment they've slipped away. You leave here and I wonder who is Michelle really hating this week. I try to remember and I can't bring it to mind. Do you know why ? 
MICHELLE No, why don't you tell me 
BILL Take a look in the mirror, Michelle 
MICHELLE Which mirror ?... This mirror ?... 
BILL Any mirror. Tell me what you see. 
MICHELLE We see Michelle as if we were watching her from behind the mirror. I see... I see your reflection over my shoulder... I see... there is nothing much that I really like... I think I prefer the view outside actually... 
During this last reply, Bill, standing up, is fidgeting with something on his desk. At Michelle's last words, he turns toward her, looking alarmed. But he doesn't have time to do prevent her from breaking through the glass pane and jumping outside. He yells «Michelle» twice. 
A STREET IN NEW-YORK - EXTERIOR DAY 
We see Michelle's body falling all the way down. Capa's office must be around the 25th floor. The body crashes on the street. A police horse, who was near the impact, rears up in fright. As if the asphalt were translucent, we see Michelle's body from underneath, with the blood flowing around it. 
SEVERAL VOICES All right, get back there... Stay back !... Get back in your car... Stop it... 
BILL CAPA'S OFFICE - INTERIOR DAY 
We see Bill with tears in his eyes. He walks to the broken window, and look outside. 
BILL Voice over. My God, it was the reddest blood I ever saw, poured around her green dress. And... Then the red disappeared... 
BITS OF CONVERSATION Is the aquarium with it ?... That's a blue shark... OK... Was that an after-schock I felt ?... 
CLARK He is dressed with a very neat grey suit. Everything on him is neat : not a hair going the wrong way. 33 and 3 is... 44... 45 
CASEY He is seated on an armchair shaped like a giant hand. He looks ver «artist». He wears his hair tied in a ponytail. He is making fun of Clark. 
CLARK 
CASEY 
CLARK CASEY 
CLARK 
CASEY 
SONDRA Casey, you're such a weenie ! 
BUCK He looks very rough, with his uncombed grey hair. He wears a red sweater without shirt, and a jacket. Leave him alone, will you ? 
CLARK 
BUCK Clark ! CASEY 
BUCK Clark ! 
CLARK Yeah ! 
BUCK Did you read the paper to-day ? 
CLARK No ! 
BUCK He take off his jacket. I was just wondering how many fucking pages it had ! Casey laughs. 
CLARK Oh Christ ! I fell right into that ! 
We see Bob behind the glass on the door of the room. He wears a shirt and a necktie, but no jacket. He looks pensively at the group. 
CASEY 
CLARK 
BUCK I care that he is late. 
CASEY I don't get it. 
SONDRA I do too. 
CASEY I don't care. 
SONDRA Why not ? 
BUCK Because his father's paying for his therapy. 
SONDRA Oh, my dead husband is paying for mine, and I still care. 
Casey is looking for his lighter. We see Sondra taping her chin with the lighter, then giving it back to Casey. 
CASEY Unbelievable !... Bob enters the room. 
BOB I think we should get started now... Clark... 
He closes the door. We hear Bill's voice. 
BILL Hey Bob ! 
BOB God ! Bill ! 
BOB'S OFFICE - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR DAY 
Bob jumps nervously, then walks in the corridor toward Bill. They hug each other. 
BUCK Yelling louder. Richie ! 
He signals him to take off his earphones. Richie takes them off. 
RICHIE What ! 
BOB Would you like to tell Bill a little something about yourself ? 
RICHIE No ! 
CLARK OK... If nobody else is going to do it, I will. Richie has a gender identity problem, and social phobia, and he's promised the group no to wear the walkman in this group. 
BUCK Doctor Clark, to lay the inventory on. I like that. 
CLARK Oh, Saint Christopher rattles his chain. 
BUCK Saint Michael, sir. CLARK This is not about you. 
BUCK You're right... 
BOB You know what I am saying ?... He talks to Richie. 
RICHIE One feels he has elocution problems. He stutters and looks for his words. I... I... I op... open my mouth to talk, but nothing... happens... except when I... when I do drugs. I... I can't... can't talk... so that's... how come I'm here... They... they say that I... I... that I blush too. 
CASEY Imitating him. Y-You c... can say that again... 
Richie jumps on Casey. Sondra stands up to stop him, but she is toot late. Richie falls on Casey and knocks his armchair down. 
RICHIE Fuck you !... Fuck you !... I'll tear your fuckin' head off ! You fuckin' cocksucker ! 
BUCK Get up! 
They fight on the floor. Buck tries to take them apart. He succeeds in tearing Richie away by holding him with both arms, and carrying him away. 
RICHIE Get the fuck off me ! 
BOB Buck. 
Richie gets free and walks rapidly out of the room. Sondra tries to follow him. Bob stops her. 
SONDRA Richie ! 
BOB It's all right... He'll come back... 
BUCK Voice over. What do you think, Doctor Clark ?... 
Bob straightens up the armchair and Casey stands up sneering. 
CASEY Was it something I said ? SONDRA You are an asshole ! 
BOB You know, guys... A little humanity... 
BUCK Talking to Bill. Funny... Oh, fucking laugh !...We're entertaining the shit out of you, aren't we ? 
SONDRA Why don't you stop feeling responsible for everyone. 
BUCK Would you stop wound-licking, Sondra. 
SONDRA She seems a bit shocked. Oh ! That's very nice ! 
BOB Buck ? 
BUCK I lost my wife... and daughter... And it just can't seem to pass... All right ? 
BILL Very sorry. How did they die ? 
BUCK They say... He starts crying. ... I... I can't talk about it... 
Sondra turns her head away : she looks disturbed and moved. Clark wipes his eyes. 
BOB Casey ? 
BUCK Coffee, anyone? 
BILL Yeah. 
CLARK He whispers. Nine. 
Bill remains seated and nods to the people getting out. Clark remains, behind Bill, in front of the shelves. He puts something back in a plastic bag and mumbles something we don't understand. Bill turns toward him. 
CLARK Have you read Bob's book ? 
BILL No, I haven't. 
CLARK He puts the bag in the pocket of this jacket, and takes a book on a shelf. He gives it to Bill. It's really... it's quite excellent. 
BILL "Way to go"... I'm glad to hear you liked it. 
CLARK He wipes his hand with a white handkerchief, wipes the handle of his black leather case before taking it, and then puts the handkerchief in the pocket of his pants. Very much. Good night, Doctor Capa. 
BILL Bill holds his hand out, but Clark does not take it. He just nods in a friendly way and goes out. Good night. Alone, Bill flips through the books. 
IN FRONT OF BOB'S OFFICE BUILDING - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Bill and Bob come out of the building where Bob's office is located. Bob has his jacket on and Bob is wearing a brown leather jacket. He is carrying his traveling bags. BILL Alone at last !... 
BOB Are you OK ? 
BILL Well, nobody jumped out of the window. So maybe I am making progress... 
BOB'S CAR - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Bob's expensive convertible Mercedes starts away. On the back license plate, we can read «WAY TO GO». The roof of the car is open. The rest of the scene takes place inside the car driving through Los Angeles. 
BOB You want to get a drink ? 
BILL Hu-hu ! 
BOB You want to get laid ? 
BILL He laughs. No ! 
BOB So what do you think of my little group ? 
BILL What's Buck's story ? 
BOB You mean, how did he loose his wife and kid. I don't know yet. He's not talking yet... Either ! 
BILL How about Casey ? 
BOB You tell me ! 
BILL Well... I smell money... Lots of it... Maybe an abusive father... How am I doing so far ? 
BOB A Plus ! 
BILL Daddy pays for the expensive loft downtown, and the very expensive artistic life style, as long a junior stays in therapy. 
BOB You got the hair on the back of my neck standing up ! 
BILL Yes, I'm a psychic when it comes to masochists. Five'll get you ten he likes to whack now and then. 
BOB Where did you get that from ? 
BILL I was born with it. Like a tuning fork. 
BOB What about Richie ? 
BILL Genuine nut-case. 
BOB Dangerous ? 
BILL Volatile ! Don't fuck with a trapped rat ! 
BOB Yeah !... Two mile any pace you like. And then... They mount their bicycles. ... let's do ten. 
They are now on the road in front of Bob's residence. 
BILL Ten ? 
BOB Too much for you, huh ? 
BILL I dunno... I was thinking of maybe twenty. He starts full speed. They are now on a minor dirt road. We can see Bob's house in the background. 
BOB Gees ! Billy ! You'll never change... Why don't we just drop our pants to see who's got the bigger dick, and then we can go back and have a nice civilized breakfast ? 
BILL Wouldn't be civilized... 
BOB Why ? 
BILL You'll be sulking ! 
BOB They are going uphill. You don't have hills in New-York... He slows down. Hang on a second... Hang on a second... Hang on a second... Bob stops and dismounts his bike. 
BILL What ? 
BOB What was that ?... What the hell was that ?... 
Bill dismounts his bike. Bob gets his bike upside down and sets it upright standing on the saddle and the handlebar. He checks the chain. Bill is leaning on his bike. 
BILL What are you afraid of ? BOB I got a gear slip, here somewhere... 
BILL That's not what I meant... What with the security systems, the security gates, looking over your shoulder. 
BOB I've been getting some threats. 
BILL What do you mean ?... Death threats ? 
BOB Pretty sure it's somebody in the Monday night group, I just don't know who... 
BILL Monday night as in last night ? 
BOB Yeah !... I was hoping that maybe with your tuning fork that you might have a hunch. 
BILL No... No hunch, Bob. What make you think it's somebody in the group ? 
Bob spins the pedals to check the chain. 
BOB Only about a dozen things... I's been going on for a couple of months now. It's funny how it gets you after a while. 
BILL Call the cops ?... 
BOB He puts his bike back on the wheels. Yeah ! They say if they had to protect every shrink in L.A., they'll need an army ! But that I should call them if anything happened. 
They put their sunglasses on. 
BILL He laughs. That makes sense. 
BOB Yeah ! Probably, it'll just blow over. 
BILL Yeah ! 
BOB How about you ? 
BILL About me... what ? We see them going very fast on the minor dirt road. A horse rider rides near them. What would you give a suicidal patient that's got everything ? They ride even faster while clowning, like riding on the back wheel. 
BOB Parachute, I heard it already. 
BILL Out here already, huh ? 
BOB Come on, old timer !... 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY 
The heavy metal door is sliding away. Bob and Bill are getting in. They dismount their bikes with some difficulty. They drop their bikes on the ground. BILL Oh, shit ! You may have to... You may have to carry me in. 
BILL Good. Yes, Bob Moore. 
HECTOR Four men and one woman. 
BILL Right. 
HECTOR And you sat in one of these sessions, right ? BILL Yes, I did. 
HECTOR So, who did it ? Anderson enters the room behind Bill, carrying a plastic cup. Hey-hey-hey-hey... ! Anderson ! This is civilization, man. What do think this is ?... Your bedroom ?... Anderson gives Bill the cup. Damn... Knock... Knock... Don't... don't come into my office like that, bro. Hey ! Anderson leaves the room and closes the door. It's third world thing !... Where were we ?... 
BILL He blows on the cup. You were probing me about the patients. And I was about to tell you that I really can't help you at all. I don't really know any of these people. 
HECTOR But you're a professional like me. You gotta have some kind of suspicion. 
BILL I really don't have a clue. I'd like to help you, but even if I could, there is an issue of confidentiality. 
HECTOR Confidentiality ?... 
BILL Yes. 
HECTOR He laughs and gets up. You're talking to me about an issue of confidentiality. BILL Similar to the Miranda oath. 
HECTOR He sits down on the desk, facing Bill. If a friend of mine got killed, and the only thing between the killer and me was Miranda, you know what I will do ?... Huh ?... Fuck Miranda up the ass. But don't tell anybody, because it's a matter of confidentiality... Shhh !... 
He puts a finger on his lips. 
BILL Oh, look ! I'm sorry I can't help you. I've only been in Los Angeles four days. 
HECTOR You're sleeping at that... dead guy's house, aren't you ? 
BILL Yes. HECTOR Maybe something will come to you in the night, you know, like dreams and shit. But... what happens to patients in a situation like this ? 
BILL Usually a colleague will offer to take over the group... continue the treatment. 
HECTOR He gets up. We see his pistol hooked on the back of his belt. How sweet !... How sweet !... It's like one of the vultures dies and then the others step in line and eat his portion. He mimes vultures walking. Is that what you're planning ? 
BILL No. 
HECTOR Why not ? 
BILL Because I really can't handle that right now. 
HECTOR Sure you can !... Come on !... You've been a week in L.A. and you already have you own private screwing farm. He sits back on the edge of the desk. How bad can that be ?... That's a great career move.... Where were you at the time of the killing, Capa ? 
BILL He pauses before answering. I was at his house, Bob's house. 
HECTOR You had to think about that ? BILL Jesus Christ !... Are you going to arrest me, Lieutenant Martinez ? 
HECTOR Hey ! You want a lawyer ? 
BILL Do I need a lawyer ? 
HECTOR You're in L.A. Everybody needs a lawyer. He goes back to his seat behind the desk, and conspicuously shows his back to Bill. All right !... You can go home now, take a shower. He turns back to Bill. And keep your mouth shut. The only thing that I got going for me is that few people know what happened, and I don't want the press fucking things up. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - INTERIOR NIGHT Bill plays with the «piece of art» made of pieces of glass. He pivots it. We can see Bill's face duplicated by the object. We then see Bill putting back in place the same crooked painting that Bob had been putting back in place the first time Bill was in the house. Then we see him walking pensively around the house. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - INTERIOR DAY 
A corridor. We hear the buzz of an intercom. Bill comes out of the bathroom, dressed in a white bathrobe. He is drying his hair with a towel. 
BILL All right !... All right !... Hold on ! 
He walks in the corridor, looking for the buzzer. He arrives into the main hall, near the video security device. On the wall near the TV set, two large paintings showing enlarged footprints. On the screen, we see Hector's face. 
BILL Oh shit ! 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - MAIN GATE - EXTERIOR DAY 
Hector is waiting in front of the gate. He is wearing a grey shirt, a beige blazer and a necktie, and a police badge on his belt. Next to him is Bob's car. Behind him, a uniformed police officer. Hector presses the bell. We hear a beep. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - HALL - INTERIOR DAY 
HECTOR I need you to do me a favor. 
BILL What's that ? 
They are crossing the garden. Hector is still in shirtsleeves and has some papers in his hand. 
HECTOR I want you to tell the group about Moore's death. 
BILL Me ?... 
HECTOR Yes. 
BILL Why ? 
HECTOR Well, maybe one of them won't come in, or maybe they will all come in, but then you would be able to spot something wrong. 
BILL I just can't handle it right now... OK ?... 
HECTOR I just had all the mess in his office cleaned up. Don't you want to help me find the killer ? Have a heart. BILL What does that mean? 
HECTOR If you don't tell them, I'll have to tell them. Am I the person to break the news to these people ? « Listen up, you fucking daffodils, your shrink is dead. They have reached the main gate. Hector gets out and Bill presses a switch. The gate starts sliding between him and Hector. Which means that all the time, effort and love you put in this relationship is wasted. You've got to remain as fucked up as you are or get worse. » 
BILL You are one sinister piece of work. All right, I'll do it. 
HECTOR It's better if you do it. 
A ROAD - EXTERIOR DAY 
We are in Bob's car, with the roof open. Bill is wearing a green polo shirt, jeans and sunglasses. He is on the phone, while he drives the car, but he drives slowly. 
BILL No, you listen to me. You don't understand, Gene. Don't lie, just give the family what it wants... No... No, you don't understand. We see Bill from the back. In the rear-view mirror of the car, we see another convertible vehicle approaching with also its roof open. A young girl is driving. She comes a bit too fast and bumps into the back of Bill's car. Bill jumps and stops his car. I have to call you back. Christ ! He puts the telephone back on his hook and gets out of the car. He goes to Rose's car. She is leaning on the steering wheel. Hey !... You're right ?... Hey !... He opens the door. She stands back. She is wearing a large beige sweater. 
ROSE Why me ?... Hi !... I'm Rose. 
BILL Hi, Rose !... I't nice to run into me like this !... I'm Bill Capa... 
He goes away from the car. 
ROSE I got no insurance... She gets out of her car. I know it's against the law and everything. She goes around her car, and looks at the damage. Don't bust my chops. I'll bring the money to you, if you just get an estimate. She stoops, picks up a piece of red plastic and gives it to Bill. OK ?... Just give me a break ! BILL Got a pen ? 
Rose goes to her car and Bill throws the piece of red plastic away. Rose gets into her car, looks into her purse, and takes a small notebook and a pen. Bill takes them but hesitates before writing. Rose smiles mockingly. 
ROSE Oh, poor old brain can't remember its own phone number. 
BILL I just moved here... From New York... I wrote my address down, because I am not sure about this number, and how long I gonna be there, so maybe you can call me sometimes for the next couple of days. 
ROSE I will. 
BILL Bye ! 
He goes away from the car. 
ROSE Hey !... Don't you want my address ? 
Bill gets into his car. 
BILL You could lie. 
He starts his car. 
BOB'S OFFICE - WORKROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Bill skip through the pages of a large notebook, looking exactly like the one Bob had hidden under a Van Gogh dustcover just before he got killed. He puts his back on the two other ones, already lying on the desk. He is wearing a grey T-shirt and an open denim shirt. 
BOB'S OFFICE - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Bill enters the room, coming from the workroom. 
BILL Hi !... Who hasn't arrived yet ? 
BUCK He is standing up. He is wearing a white T-shirt and a grey sweater with a V-shaped collar. Sondra... Where's Bob ? 
CLARK That is absolutely correct... A thief would not stick around and stab someone thirty times. 
BUCK He sits down. Since when did you become such an expert on robbery ? 
SONDRA It's not the robbery he's an expert on, it's the rage. 
RICHIE He has seated himself behind Sondra and puts his hand on her shoulder. What... what are we gonna do now ? I mean u...us, th...the group ? 
CASEY I bet Doctor Capa has an idea... 
BUCK What does he mean ? 
Casey hits his forehead. Buck is almost crying. 
BILL He sits down. I think Casey is suggesting that I... may have some plans to replace Bob... Casey sits down. 
SONDRA Maybe you should. 
BILL No... I can't do that... Not right now... 
SONDRA Why ?... 
BILL One reason is that I am more screwed up than you people are. 
CASEY I was just being obnoxious, and loud before. Anybody has a fucking Xanax ? 
SONDRA I have a librium... 
BUCK Stop with the drugs. 
CASEY It would be a good idea if you stayed. 
BUCK Bob isn't cold yet ? 
CASEY I mean, there'll be some connections. Right ?... 
SONDRA She gets up and sits down in front of Bill. She takes the cushion which was on the armchair and hugs it. You were Bob's best friend... You... you seem kind of like him... I'll be so much easier to trust you. 
BILL During the following reply, Richie comes and sits behind Sondra. I know what kind of force a group can become in your life... You tell things here... intimate things that... you wouldn't tell your best friend. I'm very flattered that you would... He stops. He seems ready to cry. But the truth is : You are the people that make this work. I would be more than happy to try to find someone for you to continue this, but I cannot help you. 
CLARK If my opinion counts for anything, I would like to ask : why it is you feel so inadequate for the task. 
Buck comes and sits next to Clark. 
BUCK Maybe he just don't like us. 
BILL No, that's not it, Buck. 
BUCK Why don't you step on something? 
CLARK You stop. 
BILL Six weeks ago, I spoke harshly to a patient. And she committed suicide... Right in front of me. Clark puts his handkerchief on his lips. Perhaps she would have done this, anyway. That's what my colleagues say... But I don't know... 
SONDRA Oh, I'm sorry. 
BILL He is crying with big tears. And my patient... Her name was Michelle... She jumped out... of a window in my office... Ohh... So much blood... And so red... And in right time, before my eyes... the red just disappeared... it's turned to grey... So I don't see... red now... Then I failed... so I can't help you... I don't think that you want someone like me around right now... 
Clark wipes his face again with his handkerchief. He seems to be extremely moved. 
BUCK I think I do. 
RICHIE M... me too. 
CASEY Why don't you give us a try for a month. 
CLARK Listen, if you need anything, any free legal advice, to help you wrap up Bob's affair, please don't hesitate to call me. I'm not with anyone right now. I'll be more than happy to help you in anyway. Clark gives his business card to Bill, who takes it. Then he gives him a kleenex. Bill wipes his eyes. 
BILL Thank you. 
We see, through the window, light-beams crossing in the sky. 
Bill has moved slightly away from Hector and turns his back to him. 
HECTOR Special rates ?... Ha ! ha !... What, like frequent flyer miles ?... Hector mime something (or someone) crashing on the ground. Then he walks around his car. Let me ask you something. Are you really color-blind, or is that some shit you feed them with so they feel sorry for you ? 
BILL No, unfortunately I am color... Did you bug the office ? 
HECTOR Hey, for a shrink, you're pretty fucking dense. 
Hector gets in his car, while the valet is holding the door for him. He closes the door and the car moves away, leaving a pensive Bill on the sidewalk. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Bill comes to the keyhole shaped door. We can see his car parked behind him. He dial a code on a keyboard and the gate opens behind the door. He looks cautiously around him before walking further. He presses a switch to close the gate. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - INTERIOR NIGHT Bill enters the house. It is very dark. He opens a glass door and walks slowly, while the door closes behind him. He hesitates a moment, then walk more decidedly... and falls heavily on the floor ! He stands back up with some difficulty, and discovers that the whole floor is flooded. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY 
Bill enters the kitchen without switching the light on. He takes a big butcher's knife in a stand on the table, and looks in the corridor. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Bill wades in the flooded corridor. He seems worried and we see the knife blade shining. He enters the bathroom, the door of which is wide open, and opens the shower stall. A rush of water runs out of it. An alarm starts sounding. He goes back into the corridor and turns off the garden hose faucet. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR NIGHT The alarm has stopped sounding. Bill is wearing short pants and he is emptying a bucket of water on the lawn. Then he spreads a wet cloth on the back of a seat. Several other wet clothes are already drying. 
ROSE Hello ! 
BILL Who's there ? 
We see Rose entering through the keyhole-shaped door. 
ROSE Hi !... Remember me ?... Fender-bender !... 
BILL There she is, a little angel, dancing on the head of a pin. 
Rose gets down the few steps to the garden. She is wearing a light flowered summer dress. 
ROSE So... did you get that estimate ? 
BILL No. 
ROSE Waow !... Nice place you got here. It's a little cold... but it's kind of tasteful, right ? 
BILL And wet ! 
ROSE You too, I guess. BILL Cold or tasteful ? 
ROSE So... Are we eating in here, or you take me out ?... 
Bill bursts laughing. 
BIG HOTEL - MAIN HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT 
We still hear Bill's laugh slowly fading out. We are looking above the main hall of a big luxurious hotel. Two attendants are pushing a baggage cart. We move with them to the restaurant room. Bill and Rose are seated at a table. 
ROSE You can't ? ... At all ?... Waow !... 
BIG HOTEL - RESTAURANT - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Close-up on Rose putting lipstick on. ROSE Not even a shade of pink ?... Can't tell me if it's smeared or not ? 
BILL I can't tell you if your eyes are bloodshed. 
ROSE Really !... That's sad !... You know what ?... In respect for your infirmity, I'm gonna give up wearing lipstick. Close-up on Rose putting her lipstick in her glass of water. There is something about me that I bet you find a little strange. Right ? 
In several shots during this dialogue, we see Bill seated in front of a mirror wall and Rose's reflection in the mirror behind Bill's back. 
BILL What is that ? 
ROSE Well, I haven't asked you what you do. 
Bill sits behind the desk. In front of the desk, already seated, Dale, Richie's brother. He is wearing an open khaki shirt. Bill wipes his glasses and puts them on. He is wearing an open light- blue shirt. 
DALE Richie is what he is. 
BILL What exactly is that? 
DALE He was born back of a van going up Route 5 to a Grateful Dead concert. The first sound he ever heard was "Beat It On Down The Line." 
They both laugh. 
BILL Well, it could be worse. 
DALE Not much. 
BILL How long have you been his guardian? 
DALE Since he was nine or ten. But I've always taken care of Richie. 
BILL So, what can I do for you ? 
DALE Um, I was hoping you would help me... get Richie out of therapy. Look, I know I'm just his brother, but I've been like a mother and a father to him... Bill takes his glasses off. and I know I can get overprotective, but... 
BILL Why would you want to take Richie out of therapy now ? 
DALE What Richie needs is normalcy. 
BILL Well, normalcy... Bill gets up and keeps on talking while walking in the room. Normalcy can be interpreted in a lot of different ways. 
DALE Richie has practically been raised by the state... Bill sits back. ... the social workers, psychiatrists... forcing him into this, um, psycho-servitude. He is the sweetest kid you'll ever meet, but he thinks of himself as handicapped. It just isn't right. 
BILL Well, he's got legal problems. Richie was sentenced by the court to mandatory treatment. 
DALE Every kid gets into trouble. And that's why I need you to help get him out. 
BILL You know, Dale, it's hard to tell when someone's feeling pain... but I want you to know... 
DALE If Richie feels pain... then I feel pain. Pretty much in tune with him. I just wish you'd give us a chance. 
BILL Let me check out Richie's status. Then, uh, I'll give probation a call. Bill gets up. 
DALE Oh, thanks. Thanks, Dr. Capa. Dale gets up and shakes Bill's hand. I really appreciate it. 
BILL You're welcome, Dale. You either lift weights or work with your hands. 
DALE Yeah, uh, I make furniture. 
BILL Really. Bill sits back, but not Dale. 
DALE Yeah, I made this desk for Bob, to remind him of New York. 
BILL No kidding. 
DALE We called it the Chrysler desk. 
BILL Chrysler. 
DALE You ever see his bed ? 
CASEY'S LOFT - INTERIOR DAY 
Tracking shot starting on a large painting showing a naked woman tied with ribbons. We hear the phone ringing. The answering machine gets on while the tracking shot moves to a painting showing another woman naked but for very small leather panties. She is hung upside down with chains and ropes. 
CASEY'S VOICE ON THE ANSWERING MACHINE Hi. This is Casey. I can't get to the phone right now, so, uh, leave a message. Thanks. 
A beep ends the message. The tracking shot moves on to a motorcycle, looking old, then to another painting showing a redhead woman wearing a bustier, a garter belt and hoses, all red. She is standing on hands and knees and she is wrapped with chains. We hear Bill's voice leaving a message on the answering machine. 
BILL'S VOICE ON THE ANSWERING MACHINE Casey, this is Bill Capa. It's around noon. Your father sent me a check for the private sessions you were having with Bob. Should I send the check back or do you want to continue ? Let me know, okay ? 
A click ends the message. During Bill's message, the tracking shot moves to a giant plastic statue, with Walt Disney's Pluto's head on a human male body. Then the tracking shot moves more quickly to another painting showing a redhead woman wearing a close-fitting sexy black overall. Then a close shot on a painting of a woman wearing a harness with spikes. Further away we see another painting showing a redhead woman being whipped. At the end of Bill's message, the tracking shots ends on Casey lying supine on a weightlifting bench. His writs are tied to the vertical bars where a dumbbell is resting. 
CASEY I think I want to continue. We hear the crack of a whip. Since the shot is showing only Casey's head and chest, we don't see who is whipping him. You bitch ! Another whip crack. I called you a bitch ! Whip crack. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Whip crack. The tracking shot starts moving backwards, but with a larger angle. Oh! Whip crack. Casey's voice is softer. Medium long shot on the room. Oh! I'm sorry. Almost hysterical laugh. 
BILL I bet you've seen every episode of Columbo, huh? Sound of a buzz. The two men look at the security screen. Who is it? Bill taps on the remote control, and Rose appears on the screen. 
ROSE Hi. It's me, Rose. The old fender bender. 
Bill taps again on the remote control to open the gate, and Rose leaves the TV screen. 
HECTOR That's a very young girl to be going around... fending benders. 
Bill puts the remote control down and follows Hector to the main gate. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR DAY 
Hector is walking to the exit. As he reaches the bottom of the steps, Rose is going down. Bill, standing behind a low wall, looks at her coming. 
BILL Here she comes. Weightless, hanging from the sky... wearing a short dress of indeterminate color. 
ROSE It's red, poor thing. 
BILL Thank you. 
They kiss. Rose takes his hand. 
ROSE I was thinking. Maybe I should see a shrink. 
BILL I can recommend someone. 
ROSE I feel better already. 
Close-up on their kissing. 
BILL God, I missed you. 
They are now at the edge of the pool. 
ROSE This time you won't miss. 
They fall fully dressed in the pool. Underwater shot. They keep on kissing in the water. Bill takes her dress off. She wears nothing underneath. We can see a rose tattooed on her buttock. She slips Bill's short down to his ankles. We get a brief view of Bill's penis. Above water shot. They are now in the water up to their waists. Bill is kissing Rose's breasts. Underwater shot. They are back underwater. Bill is kissing Rose's legs, and moves slowly up to her crotch. She has trimmed pubic hair, but with some left. Still kissing, Bill moves up along her stomach and reaches hers breasts, which he kisses greedily. Above water shot. Bill is leaning his back against the edge of the pool. Rose is lying on him. They are still in the water up to their waists. Underwater shot. Rose is kissing Bill's chest et goes slowly down his stomach, then along one of his legs. We get another brief view of Bill's penis. We notice that it is not erected (certainly to avoid being X-rated). 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY 
Multiple shots of Bill and Rose making love, seen through the «piece of art». Then tracking shot on the two bodies fondling each other. Shot on the bedroom window, and two hand-glider in the californian sky. Back to the lovers couple. They are sweating profusely. Their position and their movements suggest, without actually showing it, that Bill is inside Rose. Bill turns Rose around to put her lying on her stomach. Rose holds the two sculpted bed posts very tightly. It is suggested that Bill could be sodomizing her. They both moan. The moaning increases with a suggestion of an orgasm. 
ROSE Still holding the bedposts. She speaks with a breathless voice. I want you to get dressed up... Get dressed up... All right ? She turns around to face him. I want to get dressed up. 
BILL Right now ? 
ROSE Uh-huh. BOB'S RESIDENCE - DINING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Through the window, we notice that the night has fallen. Bill, seated behind the table, is wearing brown suit and necktie, very elegant. On the table, wine and water glasses and two chandeliers, with a lighted candle. In front of Bill, a plate with food. Rose enters the field, carrying another plate, which she sets on the other side of the table. In the plate, a piece of grilled beef, noodles et vegetables. Rose sits behind her plate. As the table is made of glass, we see that Rose is naked. 
ROSE You're not eating. Don't you like my food? 
BILL I'd like your food five inches to the left. 
ROSE Okay. Rose moves the plate to her left, showing her naked body though the glass table. But if you don't like this... I have something else for you. She laughs. 
BILL Yeah, okay. 
ROSE I think it's ready. 
She stands up laughing. Fade out on the next scene. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Long scene on the couple making love standing under the shower. Fade out on the next scene. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY 
Bill wakes up, naked, and alone in the bed. One of his hand is cuffed to one of the bedpost with a long strap. He laughs. 
ARCHIVES ROOM - INTERIOR DAY 
SONDRA'S RESIDENCE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY 
ROSE She is looking at herself in the full-length mirror. Who's that? 
SONDRA That's my analyst ! He's coming to visit me. 
ROSE When she hears Sondra's last reply, Rose's carefree face becomes very anxious. He what? 
SONDRA Oh, my God. He's coming over. 
ROSE Sondra, thanks. Oh, thanks a lot ! 
SONDRA What's the matter ? What ? 
ROSE Nothing ! She starts gathering her belongings. If you don't know, I thought we were just going to have a nice afternoon together... maybe have dinner. 
SONDRA She puts the telephone back on its stand and takes Rose's arm. Well, we can. Oh, don't worry. Don't be upset. You can stay here. Really. 
ROSE She closes her purse and puts it over her shoulder. You just don't understand, do you? 
SONDRA I don't. 
ROSE Nobody appreciates you the way that I do. People just use you, and you don't even see it. 
SONDRA Oh, don't be upset. She turns to Rose to look at her face. 
ROSE Rose kisses Sondra tenderly on the lips. That's more like it. Ciao. 
She leaves the room. Sondra seems very disturbed by the kiss. She puts her hands on her chest. 
SONDRA Oh, my God. 
SONDRA'S RESIDENCE - HALL AND SITTING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY 
Rose gets quickly down the stairs. Chimes. Rose gets large sunglasses out of her purse and adjust them on her nose before opening the front door. She opens the door to face Bill whom she almost jostle to get outside as fast as possible. Through a low window, we see her going down the stairs to the street. Larger shot. We discover the sitting-room next to the hall. Good taste expensive furniture, nice paintings, concert piano. Sondra gets down the stairs. Bill, who was looking around him, turns to her. 
BILL Hi, Sondra. Someone just let me in. 
SONDRA Hi. 
BILL I didn't just walk in on my own. 
SONDRA She closes the front door, which had remained open. Oh... no. That was my, um... That was my girlfriend, Bonnie. Yeah. 
BILL Bonnie. Yes. 
SONDRA Please, come in. BILL Thank you very much. Thank you. He enters the sitting-room, followed by Sondra. This is a really lovely place you have here. Yeah. He sits on a cushions-covered sofa. 
SONDRA You think so? Thank you. She sits on a small sofa without back. 
BILL A lot of nice, nice things. A lot of nice art. 
SONDRA She simpers a little. What did you come here for? 
BILL Well, I feel like I have so much... so much catching up to do with all of you. And I know that you're very close with Richie. And I was wondering if you could tell me anything that might help me... understand him a little better. 
SONDRA Richie's... my little baby. 
BILL His brother Dale thinks that your "little baby"... should be taken out of therapy. 
SONDRA That's insane! 
BILL He gets up. I think it's a mistake too. He goes to the window and looks at the children playing in a park. SONDRA That Dale is a dangerous bastard. 
BILL But he obviously seems to care for Richie a great deal. There's a big gap in Richie's life up until about a year ago. Did he ever mention a Dr. Niedelmeyer to you ? 
SONDRA I don't have much to tell. Richie's okay. He's sweet. Did you know that he was... molested as a child ? She has tears in her eyes. 
BILL No, I didn't know that. He comes back to her. It's sticking out all over. He sits on the bench of the piano. 
SONDRA It's fashionable. She laughs nervously. I mean, it pays well. At least, you know, you can write a book, go on Oprah. 
EDITH How very enterprising of you. 
She slams the panel shut. A few seconds, then she opens the door. 
BILL Actually, I was wondering if I could speak to Dr. Niedelmeyer. 
EDITH My husband died last year. If it makes you feel better, he suffered a lot. Well, anyway, it made me feel better. 
BILL I'm treating a young man that was a patient... of Dr. Niedelmeyer's when he was a child. His name is Richie Dexter. 
EDITH Why don't you leave me alone ? 
BILL If I could just ask you a few questions. 
EDITH You get out of here before I call the police ! She angrily slams the door shut. 
BILL Just a few questions. Mrs. Niedelmeyer... 
EDITH Voice over through the door. Get out of here ! 
Bill sighs, then walks away from the door. The camera moves above the door and ends up on a close-up of Niedelmeyer's carved face, who seems to sneer at Bill. 
BOB'S OFFICE - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT Night is falling on L.A. Clark, in the foreground, is counting books. Behind him, Richie, Buck and Casey are seated, Casey in his favorite hand-shaped armchair. Sondra is standing up. 
CLARK Fifty-eight. Now, if I'm not mistaken... last week there were 59 books on the shelf and this week there are only 58 books on the shelf somehow. 
BUCK Clark... what's the ashtray situation ? 
Sondra sits down and Casey sits in another armchair. 
CLARK Three. Not four, as recommended. There are three chairs and five assorted sofas. 
BUCK Who cares ? 
BILL He just came in and is standing by the window. He is wearing his glasses, jeans, open shirt and a light grey jacket. He turns around to speak to the group. Okay, let's get started. 
BUCK Finishing a sentence the beginning of which was not understandable. ... an emotional tar baby. 
BILL Today I'd like to focus on a most enlightening... and challenging topic. 
SONDRA She is - a bit lasciviously - sprawled in her armchair. Sex. 
BILL More or less. You see, the primary romantic relationship... in our life is often a symptom of our illness. He has seated himself in the hand-shaped armchair. 
CASEY Glad I wore my rubber pants. Buck snickers. 
BILL We keep making the same neurotic choices over and over every time we choose a new mate. So... If you had a magic wand... if you, uh, had a wish list... and could change your partner... Sondra, how would you make them different ? What's wrong ? What's missing ? 
SONDRA Now ? 
BILL You need a minute to think about it ? 
CLARK She's totally forgot her Rolodex. Casey snickers. Sorry, sorry. 
SONDRA Well, I don't have an attachment in my life right now. The last one sort of went to pieces. If you enjoy sex... A man thinks you're doing it with everybody. 
BILL He was jealous. He gets ups, walks to a cupboard, opens its door and takes a cup. 
SONDRA That's right. And I was as good as gold. 
BILL Well, there's a good chance that he was the one that was sleeping around... and projecting his fantasies and desires onto you. 
SONDRA This guy had a major projection, and he couldn't keep it in his pants. The whole group laughs. Bill smiles while pouring himself a coffee. 
SONDRA Anyway, I do have this girlfriend. She really makes me laugh. A wish list. I wish... she was a guy. 
BILL He comes back with his cup in his hand. Fair enough. Casey, what do you got for us? CASEY He is playing with a small statue of a monkey who looks at a skull.. He waits a few seconds, and puts the statue down before speaking. Well... I met this girl about a month ago. I've painted every inch of her in detail. She's the best model I've ever seen. Completely uninhibited. Does whatever I ask no matter how... 
BUCK He smiles. I'll bet she does. 
CASEY That's right, Buck. See, but this is where the problem comes in. It's what you see beneath the skin... when you study somebody endlessly, the way an artist does. I see a transcendental beauty there... beyond anything I could ever, ever imagine. 
BILL'S VOICE It's Dr. Bill Capa. Remember me ? 
Low-angle shot of the office, showing the high ceiling, with a vintage decoration, contrasting with the modern and functional furniture. 
ANDERSON Oh, yeah, yeah. The Bob Moore murder case. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - INSIDE CAR - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
The car has stopped but Bill still holds the phone. 
BILL I need to talk to you. MAIN POLICE STATION - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Same low-angle shot. 
ANDERSON I hope you're an early riser. I get off at 6:00. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - INSIDE CAR - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
BILL Okay. 
He puts the phone down, gets his car keys and his jacket, and leaves the car. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Bill gets out of the car and seems very intrigued by the fact that the keyhole-shaped door is open. He shuts his car door, and walks quietly toward the house. He looks around him in the garden, seeming more and more anxious. Finally, he enters the house. BOB'S RESIDENCE - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Still anxious, Bill walks along the corridor. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Bill enters the kitchen. A lot of cooking ingredients scattered on the table. A noise makes Bill turn around. Rose, who was kneeling behind the table, stands up. She smiles when she sees Bill. 
ROSE Hey. She snickers. The only piece of clothing she is wearing is a hotel room-maid white apron. Busy day ? Can I get you something ? Bill doesn't react at all. He looks shocked. No ? Okay. She crosses the room to get something in a drawer, showing her naked buttocks. All of a sudden, she seems to remember she is naked and put the two square fireproof cloths she is holding on her buttocks. Oh! I forgot about that ! She laughs then comes back to the stove, where she moves a dish. Bill's face still looks very shocked. 
BILL How did you get in here ? 
ROSE Last time I was here, I stole the key. It was by the door. 
BILL What about the alarm ? 
ROSE Oh ! I never thought about that. BILL It didn't go off ? 
ROSE No. Um, did I make a mistake ? You have someone in the car ? 
BILL No, goddamn it, there isn't someone in the car ! People are getting killed around here ! You walk around like it's goddamn Disneyland ! What if something were to happen to you ? 
ROSE She seems not to understand Bill's anger. I just thought that it would be a nice surprise, that's all. You don't look too happy to see me. 
BILL He waits a few second before he cools down. This is my happiness mode. I'm sorry. ROSE She is crying. Bill comes to her and takes her in his arms. I'm sorry. 
BILL I'm sorry. Baby, I'm sorry. This is a very nice surprise. He gives a quick look at her naked body. She laughs. Really nice. I'm sorry. They kiss. 
ROSE I'll never take a risk like that again. 
BILL Why don't you take the biggest risk of all and give me... your phone number. 
ROSE She laughs and goes away from him and back to her cooking. Christ, Capa ! I can't have people tying up the phone lines. I'm trying to run a business here. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Bill, with his shirt completely open, eats spaghettis in front of a lighted candle. Rose also eats spaghettis, still dressed only in her white apron. Bill drinks from a glass of white wine. Rose bites into a asparagus in a slightly erotic way. Under the glass table, we can see Bill's naked foot stroking Rose's foot. With her other foot, Rose moves Bill's pants up. Rose slides down on her chair, so Bill can reach her feet with his hands. Then Rose slides completely out of her chair and under the table. 
BOB'S RESIDENCE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
A toy remote-controlled tank is moving on Rose's naked legs. The shot gets larger and we discover that Rose is in a bathtub full of foaming water. BILL Voice over. General Patton comes out of the foothills. The tank moves on Rose's pubis, then on her stomach. Oh, he's in the swamp. Oh, oh, he's in the deep abyss. The tank skid on Rose's naked skin and doesn't succeed in climbing on her breast. We then see she is lying on her back on Bill's naked body, who is also lying on this back in the bathtub. Ooh! Ooh ! And now... Oh, he's having a problem. He's up in the Swiss Alps, ladies and gentlemen. They both laugh. We see Bill's hand holding the remote control. Fire one. Fire... Oh !... A direct hit ! The tank skids into the water and stops. 
ROSE Voice ironically disappointed. Oh. 
BILL Oh, our, our tank fleet is crippled. ROSE Yeah ? 
BILL It's goin' away. 
BILL'S VOICE ON THE ANSWERING MACHINE Hello ? Listen, Casey, y-you sounded a little upset. Just hang in there, okay ? 
CASEY Let me get this, huh ? No ? 
BILL'S VOICE ON THE ANSWERING MACHINE I'll be by this morning. So I'll see you in 30. 
CASEY Well, you think you can do it in 30 ? 
He snickers while the hand tighten the collar around his neck. 
CASEY'S LOFT - PARKING IN FRONT OF THE BUILDING - EXTERIOR DAY 
Bob's car stops in front of the building. Bill, wearing sunglasses, gets out of the car and walks toward a three-story, impressive but a bit dilapidated, brick building. Evidently, it is an old workshop changed into an artist's loft. We can still read «Nate Starkman & Son» on the front of the building. Bill comes to a large metallic door and presses on an intercom button. No answer. He tries again. He raises his head to the above windows. No one. He walks a few steps back to get a better view of the building. 
BILL He yells. Casey ! CASEY'S LOFT - INTERIOR DAY 
Casey is still lying on his exercise bench. Both his hands are tied to the weight-lifting device, and his mouth is gagged. He groans through the gag. 
CASEY'S LOFT - PARKING - EXTERIOR DAY 
BILL He puts his hands around his mouth to make his voice louder. Casey ! 
He comes back to the door and presses the intercom button several times. He raises his eyes and notice a folded fire-exit ladder. He test the strength of the folding gate pulled in front of one of the doors. It seems strong enough for him to climb it. He reaches the ladder, which he brings down. 
CASEY'S LOFT - ROOF OF THE BUILDING - EXTERIOR DAY 
Bill is now on the roof of the building. He jumps down in a sort of yard, in which are scattered various objects : plants, modern furnitures and a full-size very realistic plastic sculpture of a cow. Bill remains crouched a few second, pats the cow's snout, stands up and walks towards a glass wall located on one side of the yard. He notices he is above Casey's workshop. He walks along the glass wall to a closed window, from which smoke is coming out. 
BILL Oh, Jesus Christ. Bill succeeds in forcing the window open. A big cloud of smoke gets out of it. Casey ! Hey ! He walks through the open window. Casey! 
CASEY'S LOFT - INTERIOR DAY Bill walks on the upper gallery, coughing with the smoke. He takes off his sunglasses. Down he sees flames around the mantlepiece. He gets very quickly down the steps to ground level. He goes to the mantlepiece. What looks like pieces of paper are burning on the floor around the mantlepiece. He first tries to put the flames out with his foot, then he takes a small shovel and shovel the flaming papers back into the mantlepiece. A curtain suddenly opens on the glass wall above the workshop, flooding the room with bright light. Bill walks to the center of the room, and notice that paintings have been lacerated. On each one, it is the face of a red-hair woman which has been taken away. Bill runs back to the mantlepiece, where he picks up a piece of what he first thought was a piece of paper, but which is actually a piece of canvas from the paintings. On the half-burned piece of canvas, the face of a woman, who is heavily made up but looks slightly like Rose. He puts the piece of canvas down, and notice a slimy liquid on the floor. He turns around to try to find out more about this slimy liquid. He pulls a rope and the painting, hooked on an horizontal cable line, start moving toward him. Behind the paintings, hooked on the same cable, comes Casey's body, hanging upside down. He looks dead and sill have the gag on this mouth. The half-naked body is covered with graffitis. The slimy liquid on the floor is Casey's blood. 
BILL Ow ! Ow ! Ow ! Shit ! 
Suddenly the blood, which was grey seen through Bill's eyes, turns red. 
A ROAD - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Sondra's car. Sondra is driving. Rose is on the passenger seat, with her Bonnie's hairdo and make-up. The car radio is playing a song. 
ROSE I love this song. 
SONDRA I know. 
Honking. Two thirty-year old men, in an open convertible red car. 
THE RED CAR PASSENGER You girls want to go dancing ? 
THE RED CAR DRIVER Yeah. We're going to a party. 
SONDRA Hi ! Hi !... 
Rose bends over Sondra and kisses her tenderly. 
THE RED CAR PASSENGER Well, pardon me ! The two men look disappointed. Their car speeds up and goes away. The two women start laughing. Rose stands up through the open roof of the car. She waves to the passing cars. She then sits down and moves tenderly very close to Sondra. 
SONDRA What are you doing ? Rose takes Sondra's hand and guide it under her skirt toward her crotch. Wha... No! Sondra bursts laughing and takes her hand away. Rose keeps on cuddling Sondra who tries to concentrate on her driving. Don't ! Don't ! 
SONDRA'S RESIDENCE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Music from preceding scene has gone on without interruption. The two girls are dancing in front of the mirror. Sondra is wearing a tight-fitting black dress and Rose a skirt and a short top which shows her belly. SONG WORDS Out all night Lady did. When nobody else would. Lady did And she did it real good. Once was not enough. 
SONDRA Ah ! 
ROSE Sondra, go ! 
SONG WORDS Tell me, Katie What would your mama say. 
SONDRA Oh, I'm gonna go change the music. 
While Sondra moves away to change the music, Rose goes to the window. In the house across the street, she sees a couple kissing. The music stops. 
BUCK It's none of your fucking business. 
SONDRA You know, I can't stand this arguing. Really. 
CLARK I'd like to start, if I may. I'd like to apologize to the group and Sondra. While he is talking, Bill keeps on looking through his friend's diary. A photo is stuck between two pages. It is a photo of Rose naked. Everything that you said last week in group was right, and that's why I lost my temper. Uh, the young lady that I mentioned last week... that relationship has been terminated. No reason and no hope. She just, just called... and told me, and that's it. 
BILL He reads what is written on the back of the photo. "The sociopath, lacking the restraints that... hold a normal character together, can become anything. Amorality frees her to be universally perfect. A charming chameleon with a scorpion's tail." Do any of you recognize... recognize this woman ? He gives the photo to Sondra. SONDRA She laughs and brings the picture to her chest. Oh, my God ! Oh ! This is my girlfriend. This is Bonnie. 
BUCK He tears the picture away from her hands. Give me that ! He looks at the picture and turns to her. This your Bonnie ? This is your Bonnie ? Yeah ? 
SONDRA Yeah. Yeah. 
BUCK The one you've been boring the living shit out of us with ? This is the one that's saving you from yourself ? Your shopping mall hag ? 
SONDRA Shut up. 
BUCK The one that makes you smile ? 
SONDRA Shut up ! 
BUCK The one that you wish was a man ? 
SONDRA What are you getting at, Buck ? 
BUCK That Bonnie ? Is that it ? 
SONDRA That's right, that's it. That's right, That's right. 
BUCK Sondra... this is my Bonnie. 
SONDRA She bursts laughing, but she has tears in her eyes. You're lying. You're lying. You're lying. You're lying ! I don't believe you ! 
Bill looks intensely at her. Sondra has started sobbing. 
CLARK He tears the picture away from Buck's hands. Let me see that. 
BUCK He puts his head in his hands. Fuckin' A ! 
CLARK He looks at the picture. Well, yes, of course. This is the woman that I've been talking about. This is my Bonnie. Buck tears the picture away from his hands. Goddamn it, Buck ! Don't do that ! Do not do that ! 
BUCK Hey, hey, hey ! 
They are ready to fight. Sondra comes between them. The three of them are talking together. 
SONDRA You're lying to me ! Why are you lying to me ? 
CLARK Stop acting like an... Like an emotional child ! 
BUCK Goddamn tar baby ! 
SONDRA You're making it up ! You're making it up ! 
CLARK Nobody's making anything up... and stop it, stop it, stop it ! 
During this heated verbal exchange, Richie has picked the fallen picture from the floor. 
SONDRA Stop it ! 
CLARK Quit it ! You're crumpling the picture up ! I want you to stop showing off ! You're a little brat ! 
BUCK Fuck it ! You have the emotions of a styrofoam cup ! 
We see Richie putting the picture away and leaving hurriedly. 
CLARK You calm down, and you stop... 
SONDRA Where's the picture ? 
Lightning, thunder, and the pictures appears close-up in a hand. It is Hector's hand, who looks at them all, sneering. 
HECTOR How in the name of God... could all of you be going out with the same woman and not know ? Not have a clue ? Including you, Mr. Psycho-fucking-analyst ? Not to mention Bob Moore... who probably took this amazing picture himself in front of his expensive painting. I'm gonna call the Guinness Book of World Records... because I think this woman deserves credit. And I'm gonna make sure that all of your names are included... so you can all share in the glory. 
LARRY I don't have your magical tuning fork. All I know is that two people are dead... and she seems an excellent suspect. Bill, salmon swim upstream to mate and die. And so do men. 
BILL Is that what I'm doing? 
A STREET NEAR THE MAIN POLICE STATION - EXTERIOR DAY 
Anderson is walking in the street, a coffee paper cup in his hand. He is wearing suit and sunglasses, but also a very flashy necktie. Bill dressed in open shirt and sunglasses, walks toward him. 
BILL Anderson ! I need your help with something. 
ANDERSON Hey, man, how ya doin'? 
They start walking together in the street. 
BILL I'm sitting in a restaurant last night, and I'm looking out the window... watching this woman trying to back out of a space right in front of mine. ANDERSON A beautiful woman ? 
BILL Stunning. Anyway, the next thing I know, she busted out the headlight on my car. 
ANDERSON Uh-oh. Drives away, right ? 
BILL I don't even think she knew what she did. 
ANDERSON But you'd like to meet her ? Bill answers with a silly smile. All right, um, I'll see what I can do. You got the license number ? 
BILL He gets a piece of paper out of his shirt pocket and gives it to Anderson. Yeah. Thanks, man. All right. Thanks. 
ANDERSON Sure. 
The two men split up. Anderson walks into the police office. 
STREETS, THEN PARKING BUILDING IN L.A. - EXTERIOR DAY 
Bob's car, still dented all over, starts, with open roof, and Bill driving. He is wearing sunglasses. As the car passes a crossroad, we see, coming on its right , the «red car», also dented all over. It starts following Bill. Bill parks his car on a parking lot, at the bottom of a parking building. The red car climbs to the roof of the building. Bill cuts the ignition off, takes his keys and gets out of the car. He starts walking along the building, the red car following him from the roof. The red car stops behind a car parked on the edge of the roof, then starts pushing the car. The car breaks the guardrail and falls down to the ground. Bill raises his head, sees the car coming down, jumps away and falls flat on the ground, just avoiding the falling car, which crashes on two other parked cars. We see the front of the red car appearing behind the broken guardrail. Bill bangs his fist on the ground, while pieces of broken cars are flying all around him. 
BILL He yells. Damn ! 
BUILDING WITH GALLERIES - EXTERIOR DAY 
A very picturesque building with multiple open air galleries. On one of the galleries, Anderson walks toward Hector who is pointing a menacing finger to him. 
HECTOR I ought to shoot you! 
ANDERSON I came to make amends. 
HECTOR So make 'em, loudmouth ! 
Full shot of the building. Very typical L.A. architecture, looking almost like a movie set. Anderson and Hector are leaning against the bannister of one of the upper galleries. 
ANDERSON I just spoke to Bill Capa. This license plate might belong to our mystery lady. 
Close up on Anderson and Hector. Anderson gives to Hector the piece of paper Bill had given to him. Hector reads the paper. 
NIEDELMEYER'S RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY 
Bill runs to the door of the house. He knocks repeatedly and forcefully. 
BILL Mrs. Niedelmeyer ! It's Dr. Capa again. 
Edith Niedelmeyer opens the small panel in the door. She looks furious. 
EDITH You leave me alone ! Get away from here ! 
BILL I need your help, please ! 
EDITH Why are you torturing me like this ? 
BILL Mrs. Niedelmeyer, please ! 
NIEDELMEYER'S RESIDENCE - INTERIOR DAY 
Edith closes the small panel. Several heavy blows on the door, which eventually crashes open and gives access to Bill. The house is very heavily decorated. 
