CONAN THE BARBARIAN 
Written by 
Thomas Dean Donnelly & Joshua Oppenheimer 
Based on the writings of 
Robert E. Howard 
October 7, 2009 
OVER BLACK: 
In the darkness, we hear the solitary sound of a HEARTBEAT, resounding like a drum. 
NARRATOR (V.O) In between the years when the oceans drank Atlantis and the rise of the Sons of Aryas, there was an age undreamed of, when shining kingdoms lay spread across the world like blue mantles under the stars. Hither came Conan, the Cimmerian: a thief, a slayer, a king born of battle. 
Muffled sounds, as if underwater, echo: CLANGING swords, the guttural CRIES of combat. 
UNBORN BABY 
Eyes closed, floating at peace within red glow of the womb. 
Suddenly, a flash of steel, as a sword pierces the womb, its tip not an inch from the baby's head. 
As the sword is ripped out, light streams in from outside, we travel with it, into the DIN of BATTLE. 
EXT. CIMMERIA - MUDDY FIELD - DAY 
A blonde-haired, armored AESIR RAIDER withdraws the bloody sword from the stomach of ISLENE, a wild-maned Cimmerian beauty, many months pregnant, now clutching her bloody stomach. 
Across a muddy battlefield, the air a maelstrom of falling snowflakes and embers from trees aflame, the powerfully built CORIN rallies his fellow CIMMERIANS, until he spots Islene. 
CORIN Islene!!! 
Wielding a broadsword, runes etched into its surface, Corin cuts a bloody path through his enemies, his eyes never leaving Islene. 
The Aesir standing over Islene LAUGHS as she claws at the earth behind her, trying to pull herself away. 
AESIR Now, now little whore. Did I get you or your little one? 
Islene's hand reaches back once again -- and it finds a fallen warrior's SWORD. In one fluid motion she swings the sword around her body and drives it into the gap in the Aesir's armor -- at his groin. 
ISLENE I'd ask you the same. 
The Aesir HOWLS in agony, raising his sword to deliver the killing blow -- when another sword pierces his chest. The Aesir falls, revealing Corin standing behind him. 
Corin throws aside his horned helmet, and falls to his knees beside Islene, checking her wound. When he pulls his hands back they are coated in blood. 
Their eyes meet. Torment. Loss. They both know. She pulls a knife from the folds of her pelts, puts it in his hand. 
ISLENE (CONT'D) Take your child. 
CORIN I cannot. 
Islene looks to her naked belly. The baby inside presses against its womb, a visible impression on her flesh. 
ISLENE There is no time, husband. I would see my child's face. 
Islene's eyes flutter as she struggles. Corin lowers the knife. Islene's eyes lock with Corin's as he puts the knife to use. Never once does she scream. 
A moment later, Corin lifts the crying, blood-covered BOY up through the falling snowflakes to Islene's lap. 
ISLENE (CONT'D) A boy. He will be strong. A warrior with no equal. 
CORIN Do not speak, love. 
ISLENE You have never been able to still my tongue, and you will not this day. He will be wild, Corin. You must temper him. 
She shares one kiss with her child, its first taste not of mother's milk, but of her blood. 
ISLENE (CONT'D) (FADING) Conan. His--name--is--Conan. 
CONAN 
The boy's eyes are as deep and blue as the Eastern Sea. 
Conan steps forward from out of a thicket, his body covered in Pict blood. Three PICTS lie massacred, the bodies hacked to pieces. 
CORIN (CONT'D) What have you done, boy? 
Conan walks past the other stunned Cimmerians, up to his father. Conan SPITS OUT the bloody stone from his mouth. 
CONAN They killed one. I killed three. I am a warrior now. 
Uran and the other Cimmerian men exchange worried glances. Looking at the carved up bodies of the Picts, they are aghast. Conan looks confused. Why aren't they happy? 
CORIN A warrior? What you have done a jackal would do. Never a warrior. 
CONAN They would have done the same -- 
CORIN As I said, jackals. (TO URAN) He is not ready. I will forge him myself. 
CUT TO: 
TRAINING MONTAGE: 
Conan is tested under Corin's watchful eye: 
- Forced to sleep in the snow, while his father keeps warm inside. 
- A heavy boulder on his shoulder blades while he balances on wet river rocks. 
- Climbing a cliff face, his bare hands leaving blood behind on the jagged rocks. 
INT. CIMMERIAN FORGE - DAY 
Flames reflect in the blue eyes of Conan as he works the bellows of the forge. Sparks buzz like angry fireflies as he stokes the blaze. 
Corin sharpens a sword, perfecting it. Conan cannot take his eyes off it, stepping away from the bellows. 
CORIN Stoke your fire, boy. 
Conan slams the bellows closed, anger rising. 
CONAN "Stoke your fire, chop your wood." I have slept where wolves dare not. I have balanced a thousand river stones. When will you teach me the sword? 
Corin stares his son in the eyes. Judging. 
CORIN Think you're ready? Then tell me: what is a sword's purpose? 
CONAN To slay ones enemies. 
CORIN No. That is what it does. Its purpose is why you use it. 
He tosses Conan two lumps of ore. 
CORIN (CONT'D) Tell me, which makes the best sword? 
Conan takes the two lumps, testing them. He hands his father back one. 
CORIN (CONT'D) The stronger ore, eh? Then we shall make a sword of it, and tomorrow you will show me what brute strength yields. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD - DUSK 
With a setting sun silhouetting the two, Conan attacks Corin. Conan attacks with fury. Corin defends with grace. Until the boy overextends and Corin slashes down a counterattack that SHATTERS CONAN'S SWORD. 
Corin simply turns and walks away, leaving Conan to puzzle what happened. 
Corin lowers his sword and walks away, leaving Conan to puzzle what happened. 
INT. CORIN'S FORGE - NIGHT 
Conan works the bellows, putting his back into it. Corin places both ores in the furnace where they begin to melt. 
CONAN Why did it break? 
CORIN Because it had no life. 
CUT TO: 
Sparks fly as Corin pounds on the glowing edge of the sword with hammer. Corin nods at Conan, who sprinkles the glowing blade with ash. 
Corin walks out of the forge, looking around for Conan. Various other Cimmerians go about the daily routine, but Conan is nowhere to be seen. 
CORIN Conan? 
Corin looks to the ridge above the village, noticing a thick fog creeping in. The fog curls and eddies, something is out there. 
Suddenly, Lucius and his legion of silver-armored warriors burst out of the fog, attacking with speed and strength. 
But the Cimmerians are hardly caught flat footed. In seconds they are armed, and they counter the charge with a furious charge of their own. 
SLAM! Sword and bone collide as the two enemy fronts smash into each other. And the battle devolves into one-on-ones -- 
Where the barbarians have the upper hand. Uran and Corin lead the main push of battle-frenzied barbarians as they swing their huge broadswords, extending their reach advantage over the Aquilonian's shorter weapons. 
And quickly, the Aquilonian's numbers are cut in half. Corin squares off against Lucius himself. Lucius is sweating. Worried. It wasn't supposed to be this hard. 
LUCIUS Retreat! 
As a unit, the Aquilonians race back into the woods. In seconds, the Cimmerians give chase in wild pursuit. 
CORIN Wait! Hold your ground! 
But it's too late, nearly half the Cimmerian warriors are gone on the chase. 
EXT. CLIFF FACE - DAY 
Lucius and the Aquilonians race up to a sheer cliff face. Nowhere left to run. They turn to see the Cimmerians gathering in front of them. 
URAN Death is in the air, invaders. Can you taste it? 
LUCIUS (SMILES) Indeed. I savor it. 
Uran notices something is wrong. His eyes go skyward. Atop the cliff stand Cheren and a dozen more of his blind archers, bows at the ready with FLAMING ARROWS. 
They let the arrows fly, streaking balls of flame heading right for the Cimmerians. But they do not hit them. They hit the tree trunks beside them. 
And for a moment, the Cimmerians look relieved, until they notice small bags of a black substance tied to the arrows. The flames lick at the substance -- 
KABOOM! The forest erupts into flames as the Cimmerian warriors are burned alive. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN LAKE - DAY 
Conan spins, started by the sound of the explosion. He sees flames rising above the treetops beyond. 
He races back home. 
EXT. CIMMERIAN VILLAGE - DAY 
Corin sees the flames in the distance as well. Suddenly, Ukafa and his Kushite warriors erupt out of the forest. Armed with fearsome barbed spears they charge the remaining Cimmerians, savage against savage. 
But the Kushites are not alone. From behind the Cimmerians comes, AKHUN, a massive four hundred pounds of flesh, wearing loops of chains like armor, leads his turbaned TURANIAN HORSEMEN into the village. 
The Cimmerian WOMEN arm themselves, but the Horsemen attack with NINE TAILED WHIPS pulling their swords from their hands and dragging them to the ground. 
The Horsemen quickly gather up the women while Ukafa and his men keep the Cimmerian warriors all too occupied. 
CONAN 
Conan rushes through a river, now tinged red with blood, and reaches the far end of the village. 
Huts burn, women are chained, only a handful of Cimmerians still stand. Lucius and his Aquilonian mercenaries are helping the Spearmen slay the wounded. 
Conan grabs a fallen sword and rushes for the nearest Aquilonian and RUNS HIM THROUGH. A ZINGARAN spots him and rushes him with his spear. Conan readies himself for the CHARGE -- 
When the Zingaran loses his head, lopped off by Corin's blade. 
CONAN Father! 
CORIN Come. 
Corin, sporting a deep gash to his abdomen, pulls a reluctant Conan from the battle, back toward the forge. 
INT. FORGE - DAY 
The flames of the forge still burn as Corin pushes Conan into the room. He bolts the door behind him. 
CONAN Do we need more weapons? 
One by one, the lieutenants beat and stab Corin, taking pleasure in his pain. 
Conan struggles, trying to move, to yell, to do anything other than lie there. But a huge timber lies upon his back, pinning him to the ground. 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) Fariq! Come! 
Entering the wrecked forge is FARIQ, the six year old son to Khalar Singh. He stares at Corin's bleeding form with the dispassion of a sociopath. 
Khalar picks up THE SWORD Corin and Conan had forged together, the one Corin took away. He admires it, then hands it to his son. He keeps a hand on it as it is too heavy for his son to lift alone. He instructs his son as if teaching him multiplication. 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) Before you lies our enemy. His tribe waits for him in the beyond. What would you do? 
FARIQ I would cut out his eyes, father, so that he will not find them. So he will wander the afterlife forever. 
Khalar smiles. 
KHALAR SINGH Show me your strength, Fariq. Without it, you will never rule. With it, you will never be forgotten. 
Fariq DRIVES THE SWORD INTO CORIN'S EYE. Corin doesn't make a sound. Once Fariq has ripped out Corin's eyes, Khalar runs Corin through. 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) You have your desire. Death has found you. 
Corin spits out his last words, also meant for Conan. 
CORIN Soon -- it comes for you. 
CONAN'S POV 
Conan glimpses around the faces of Khalar and his men, each image seared into his memory as if ablaze. 
KHALAR SINGH Burn this place. It no longer exists. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CIMMERIAN VILLAGE - DAY 
The forge is lit afire from a half dozen torches, thrown onto its roof and inside its windows. Khalar and the other watch as the building roars into flame. 
INT. FORGE - DAY 
Smoke fills the air. Conan struggles, still unable to move. He COUGHS, dying. 
But then the fire collapses more of the forge, and the falling beams shatter the one that pins Conan to the ground. 
Slowly, painfully, Conan drags himself into the cooling trough that runs beneath the hut. 
FADE TO BLACK. 
EXT. CIMMERIAN VILLAGE - DAY 
Conan exits the forge only to see the entire village burning. The bodies of everyone he has ever known litter the landscape. Nothing stirs. Until he hears a strange CHOPPING SOUND. 
THE PICT 
Conan spots the Pict, who is decapitating a dead Cimmerian warrior, adding to the collection of heads at his tattooed waist. 
The Pict doesn't notice as Conan slips up behind him, then RUNS HIM THROUGH. 
As the wide-eyed Pict dies, Conan takes the sword and CUTS A NOTCH into his arm. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
NOTCHED ARM 
Where there was once a single notch, there are now FIVE such notches, on a much broader arm that struggles to pin another powerful looking arm. 
INT. BAR - MESSANTIA - NIGHT 
A raucous bar on the Argossean waterfront. Out the window we see a port lined with Shemish galleys and junks from Kush. 
The bar is filled with the hearty sailors and merchants of those ships, and those who desire to part them from their hard-earned money; Zamoran thieves, Hyborean mercenaries and Brythunian whores. Most of them watch the arm wrestling match taking place at the back of the bar. 
A pair of CITY GUARDS, short swords sheathed at their sides, enter the bar and are immediately summoned over by the harried BARKEEP. 
BARKEEP He's back there. 
The barkeep motion to the arm wrestlers. 
The guards holding Conan up by his arms, suddenly find those arms wrapped around their heads. Twist, twist. SNAP. SNAP. He breaks both their necks in an instant. 
The Lieutenant is horrified. He goes for his sword. Conan bats it out of his hand, slamming his head against the back wall. 
CONAN (CONT'D) The key to the cells. 
LIEUTENANT I don't have it. There's a guard inside the door. Only he can open it. 
Conan picks up the Lieutenant's sword. 
LIEUTENANT (CONT'D) You can't kill me! He'll only open the door for me! 
A FLASH OF STEEL as Conan delivers a blow. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CELLS - NIGHT 
A GUARD sits on a stool next to a heavy metal door. Behind him, the CAPTAIN OF THE GUARD beats a chained ONE-EYED PRISONER to a pulpy mess. 
There's a KNOCK at the door. 
GUARD #1 What is it? 
MUFFLED VOICE (O.S.) Need to see the Captain. 
The Guard exhales, frustrated. He stands up, getting his keys out. He stops. Opens the small EYEHOLE to see into the other room. 
The Lieutenant stares back at him. 
GUARD #1 Fine, fine. 
He opens the door-- 
Only to see Conan standing there, holding the decapitated head of the Lieutenant. 
The shocked Guard goes for his sword. Conan swings the Lieutenant's head, smashing it into the Guard's jaw and putting him down for the count. 
That's when the Captain of the Guard turns around. And WE RECOGNIZE HIM! He's LUCIUS, the disfigured Aquilionian who was one of Khalar Singh's lieutenants. 
LUCIUS Men! 
From around a corner come five more Guards, drawing their weapons. Lucius draws his as well. 
LUCIUS (CONT'D) You've made a huge mistake, ape. You'll never make it out of this place. 
CONAN I came for you, Lucius. 
Lucius nods to the guards, who advance on Conan. 
LUCIUS You talk as though you know me, ape. 
CONAN I do. And I am no ape. I am Cimmerian. 
As recognition crosses Lucius' face, Conan springs into action. He KICKS the table at the men, sending the knives and other torture implements flying right into the first guard. 
The second guard tries leaping over the falling table. Conan just grabs him in midair and throws him even faster into the iron bands of the prisoner cells. 
Lucius lunges at Conan, Conan steps in on him, grabbing his sword hand. In a show of strength, he twists Lucius' own sword until points down at the floor, then THRUSTS IT THROUGH LUCIUS' FOOT AND DEEP INTO THE WOOD FLOOR BELOW. 
Lucius BELLOWS in pain, pinned to the spot. 
The next three Guards rush forward, forcing Conan to deal with three weapons attacks at once. 
The first to strike swings a mace and chain that wraps around Conan's sword and he tries to yank it free from Conan's grip. Instead, Conan pulls him in a wide circle, sending him flying into a wall-mounted torch. The guard burns like dry kindling. 
The second to strike hits Conan on his sword hand, carving a deep gash and causing him to drop his sword. 
Conan turns to face him, eyes filled with rage. The guard's face goes pale. Conan head butts him with all his might and the guard goes down, bleeding from mouth, nose and ears. 
However, the last Guard is upon Conan before he can react. The powerful soldier uses the shaft of his poleax to lift Conan off his feet and back against the far wall, pinned by the neck. 
Conan struggles to breathe, the polearm shaft driving his throat into the wall. The thickness of the Cimmerian's neck gives him time to reach into his bracer, pulling out a hidden knife which he buries into the Guardsman's eye. 
CUT TO: 
Lucius SCREAMS in pain as Conan pours water on the burning guard, and lifts the table back onto its legs. Then he pulls the sword out of the floor, a thick plume of blood rising out of Lucius' now liberated foot. 
KHALAR SINGH Take care, Ukafa. You hold a special place in my kingdom, but blood you are not. 
UKAFA My apologies, Khalar Singh. I am simply concerned for your army. 
KHALAR SINGH And I would gladly sacrifice every last man to get my hands on the Queen. And in that respect, Fariq has my confidence. He knows more of the legends of Acheron than anyone. 
Suddenly, two forms race at them from the blinding sand. REMO and FARIQ. No longer a child, Fariq is now a man in his twenties, but he is hardly the strong warrior his father is. His frame is slight, his eyes beady. 
FARIQ Father, they are here! The hidden oasis, just as it was written. 
Khalar Singh looks to Remo for confirmation. The misshapen and shadowy Remo nods. 
EXT. CAVE TUNNEL - DAY 
Remo and Fariq lead Khalar and Ukafa into a natural tunnel carved out of rock. Inside, the sandstorm no longer rages. 
And on the other side of the tunnel -- 
EXT. OASIS - CONTINUOUS 
A protected rock oasis, heavy vegetation crawling up the encircling cliff walls, herds of sheep grazing on fields of grass. At its far end, beyond a deep blue pond, lies a Greek- influenced monastery and several tiled-roof, mud-brick houses. 
And moving between the pools are MEN and WOMEN going about their simple chores. They wear long flowing white linen robes and turbans. 
The air and sand are perfectly still within the perimeter of the oasis. But beyond it, the sandstorm rages all around, sand hurled violently hundreds of feet into the air, swirling around the oasis as though it were the eye of some mystical hurricane, protected by an unseen force. 
A row of robed YOUNG WOMEN kneel in front of one of the reflecting pools, quietly reading from prayer books and softly striking their right breast with a left hands wrapped in thorns. 
One girl, ILIRA, mischievously taps the shoulder of the girl next to her with her thorn. The girl, TAMARA, squeals in pain, angry her prayer was interrupted. 
Ilira is the fun-loving dilettante of the relationship. Tamara the studious good girl. 
TAMARA Stop it! I'm trying to pray! 
ILIRA I'm bored. 
TAMARA Then hit yourself. 
Tamara hits Ilira back with her thorn. Ilira SQUEALS, then hits a grinning Tamara back. Tamara grabs her, but as they TUSSLE-- 
FASSIR (O.S.) Is that how one shows penitence? 
Both girls instantly stop as FASSIR appears behind them. Fassir is an elder monk and leader of the monastery. He shakes his head, both out of fondness and disappointment. 
FASSIR (CONT'D) I expect more from a queen. 
ILIRA I'm sorry, Fassir. I just tire of saying the same prayer every day. 
FASSIR Then you should be able to translate it from its original Acheronian. 
Ilira's face scrunches, unsure. Tamara steps in to help Ilira save face. 
TAMARA Of course she can. She even taught it to me. "Never again." 
FASSIR Go on. 
TAMARA Never again will we stand by as darkness consumes the world. Never again will innocents suffer for others' power. Never again will the Queen suffer so Acheron may rise. 
FASSIR Very good, Tamara. You must have taught her very well indeed, Ilira. 
A smile on Fassir's face confirms he knows the truth. 
Suddenly, the monastery's BELL RINGS OUT. A moment later, a temple EXPLODES in flames. 
Pouring out from the swirling sands come Khalar Singh's army. Cheren and his archers stand atop Khalar's 
MAN OF WAR 
A massive siege engine atop which CHEREN and his archers fire FLAMING ARROWS. The arrows arc down and explode as they impact the tiled roofs. 
Sitting at the highest point of the Man Of War, Khalar Singh likes what he sees. 
CHAOS 
The monks scatter in every direction, but wherever they turn, more troops burst out of the swirling sand. 
A small handful of armed MONKS display acrobatic martial arts prowess as they battle with Khalar's heavily armed forces, but they are vastly outnumbered. 
REMO It was I, Lord. 
KHALAR SINGH Take four legions. Hunt her. Before I hunt you. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DESERT - DAY 
Tamara stumbles through a stretch of barren wasteland, the plumes of the oasis' sandstorm now off in the distance behind her. 
The sun mercilessly beats down upon her face, her lips are already chapped. She falls to her knees, unable to go on. 
She looks up, as the heat streams off the desert floor, creating a swirling mirage. Through which the silhouette of a rider appears, followed by others. 
SLAVER CARAVAN 
The horse-drawn carts of the caravan are lined with iron bars, and behind the bars are a bevy of young women, mostly looking worse for wear. 
The HEAD SLAVER rides ahead, and walks up to the heap of white cloth that is Tamara. 
TAMARA Water -- please -- 
He lifts her barely conscious head, eyeing her features, a greasy paw examining her body. He smiles. 
HEAD SLAVER The gods are good. (to the other slavers) Chain this one in my cage. She'll be the prize of the auction in Khor Kalba. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. OASIS - NIGHT 
The Man of War dominates the center of the oasis, its torches illuminating the scene before it. Akhun and the Turanians hold chains connected to the twenty women monks, kneeling, with their wrists chained to their neck collars. 
In front of them kneels Fassir, beaten and bloodied. 
Khalar Singh, Fariq, and Ukafa step down from the Man of War. Fariq carries with him a large iron box with ornate carvings on it. 
KHALAR SINGH All these years searching the ends of the earth. And here you are. Just a two day ride from Khor Kalba. I can scarcely believe it. 
FASSIR (in Acheronian, to monks) Say nothing. 
KHALAR SINGH (IN ACHERONIAN) Yes. Say nothing. Maybe he doesn't know who we are. Maybe he's not looking for the Queen. 
Several of the women look up at him, shocked. 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) That's right, my brethren, you have been lied to all your lives. Told you must hide yourselves, told you were alone. I want you to look at me, and see me for what I am. A brother. A friend. I have come not to hurt you, but liberate you. 
FASSIR You come for your own dark purposes, to raise Acheron. 
KHALAR SINGH Yes. I come to resurrect the greatest empire Hyboria has ever known. 
FASSIR An empire of evil, soaked in blood sacrifice and the blackest of magic. 
Khalar Singh becomes infuriated, eyes blazing. 
KHALAR SINGH Have you hidden from the world so long that you cannot to see? Blood, magic, death: it is everywhere. Acheron is no different than any other kingdom, but for its glory. (MORE) 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) And in place of that glory, you offer shame? I knew shame, but that was before I was shown my true lineage. 
Khalar draws closer to the women, looking them each in the eye. 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) When I was but a child, raiders destroyed my village, cut our fathers to ribbons, and burned our women as sacrifice to foreign gods. Those few who survived, we ran for our lives, chased into caves at the edge of the Eastern Sea, left with nothing to live for. But then we discovered it. Acheron. The temple that spawned an empire. We learned that we were not broken goat- herders on a desolate coastline. We were the sons and daughters of kings. (stares in Ilira's eyes) And queens. 
He motions to Fariq, who brings the iron box forward. 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) For thirty years I have searched for you. In that time I built both an army and empire, but they are nothing compared to what we can create together. We can raise Acheron again. Never again will we hide like rats. Never again will we watch as our loved ones are slaughtered. I call forth the Queen. Stand and join me, and this day will have a joyous end. 
No one moves. 
FASSIR You would have all the world suffer, as you have suffered. We will die before we help you. 
KHALAR SINGH Yes. You will. 
He nods to his son. He paces in front of the female monks, the box in front of them. 
FARIQ The caves beneath Khor Khalba contain all manner of creature, many -- altered -- by centuries of blood magic. But one, in particular, has developed a special connection to the blood. A thirst. It is said that only the Queen of Acheron itself can resist its embrace. 
He stops, one woman away from Ilira. 
As a SECOND WAVE OF RIDERS comes thundering towards them, before the Slavers can re-establish their perimeter. The riders start cutting the slavers down where they stand. 
CONAN 
Conan lodges his sword in a still-rolling boulder. As it rolls, it pulls him up on top of it. From this height, Conan launches himself down at the horsemen below. 
WHAM! He knocks a rider off his horse, Conan landing square in the saddle. He kicks the horse straight at the other riders. They don't see him coming until it's too late. He cuts them down where they sit. 
The last remaining CARAVAN DRIVER whips his horse team, trying to pull his wagon out of the fight. Conan spins to see a FLASH of steel and the rider's neck plumes in blood as he's decapitated. 
Which is strange since the cavalry are nowhere near the wagon. 
REMO 
The explanation comes as the shadow behind the driver MORPHS into Remo, the spindly Shadow Scout. He takes the reins, stopping the wagon. 
Conan spots him, recognition in his eyes. 
CONAN (CONT'D) You! 
There's a SCREAM. Conan turns to see the other two SHADOW SCOUTS already hacking their way through the slaves on one of the caged wagons. A Shadow Scout gets to Tamara, only to have her FIGHT BACK. 
Tamara kicks the first Scout in the face, slamming his head into the bars. However, the second one clubs her unconscious from behind. 
CONAN 
Leaps from his horse, launching his body at Remo. Remo dives and rolls away. Small and misshapen, he is nonetheless very fast. 
Conan strikes again. Again Remo dodges out of the way. 
The Shadow Scouts draw swords, but Remo waves them off, speaking in the broken language of a savage. 
REMO The girl! Bring her to Khalar! 
Conan launches an all out attack. Remo leaps over his sword and vaults Conan, landing on his back. He draws his sword, preparing to cut Conan's throat -- 
When Conan hurls his body backwards, into one of the huge rolling boulders. The impact crushes Remo and he loses his grip. 
Conan spins to strike again, only to see Remo MELT INTO THE SHADOW OF THE BOULDER. 
Conan turns his attention towards the other two Shadow Scouts as they drag the unconscious Tamara away. 
Conan mounts one of the cavalry horses and gallops towards the Scouts. They see him coming and let go of Tamara. THEY MELT AWAY INTO HER SHADOW AND DISAPPEAR. 
CUT TO: 
TAMARA 
Dazed, she struggles to her feet. Conan appears beside her, his dagger out. Tamara gasps in fear but Conan only reaches out and breaks the lock on her chains. 
CONAN Who are you? 
TAMARA I am nobody. 
He cuts the bonds on her feet. Tamara rises up, the battle scene revealed to her. 
Dead bodies of the Slavers and Turanian horsemen lie sprawled in every direction. Tamara takes in the gruesome sight, shocked. 
CONAN Many died to capture nobody. (motions to his horse) Get up. 
TAMARA And if I don't wish to ride with you? 
EXT. DESERT - DAY 
Conan rides his horse, Tamara trailing on foot, wrists tethered to Conan's saddle by a long rope. Tamara looks exhausted. 
They reach a gallery of broken columns, spires of fossilized coral that juts out of the desert. 
TAMARA Stop! I want water. 
Conan just keeps riding. 
CONAN Perhaps the slavers took your orders. I don't. 
TAMARA I never knew men could be so cruel. Now I wonder if the world is filled with animals such as you. 
CONAN You speak of animals as if they were less than men. But animals don't stab their brothers in the back or steal their mother's only possession. And they never lie. 
We GLIDE DOWN past hundred foot high pillars of flames, towards the growing sounds of SCREAMING and WAILING. 
The streets of Acheron are lined with thousands of SLAVES, young and old, chained together, toiling under the lash of their cruel masters, the 
ACHERONIAN WARRIORS 
Towering over the slaves, the warriors are a fearsome sight. Their armor, crafted from the bones of their defeated enemies, rises to a mask which covers much of their features. 
Only the red irises of their eyes peer through. That and their pitch black skin. 
The slaves hobble down the main boulevard, their naked feet splashing in streams of BLOOD which flow from the 
ACHERONIAN PYRAMID 
Up ahead looms a colossal pyramid, surrounded in a semi- circle by five massive statues. As we grow closer the grotesque surface of the pyramid becomes clearer, one hewn from cracked bone and empty sockets. 
The thunderous heartbeat seems all around us now. THUMP, THUMP. 
The three hundred foot high edifice is made ENTIRELY OF THOUSANDS OF HUMAN SKULLS. Many of the skulls still drip with blood, pouring down from the pyramid's crest, where stands 
A BLACK THRONE 
Images of snakes gorging themselves on hapless victims are carved in bas relief into the throne's surface. 
Standing before the throne, surrounded by BLACK ROBED PRIESTS are a man and woman, mere shadows in the silhouette of torches. 
The HEAD PRIEST and his ACOLYTE approach with TWO CROWNS. One is made of GOLD, the other of IRON. 
The Gold crown goes on the head of the man. For the woman, the Iron crown is placed on her head. 
And suddenly, THUMP, THUMP. IRON SPIKES SHOOT OUT OF THE IRON CROWN PIERCING THE WOMAN'S FOREHEAD, HER SCREAMS ECHOES THROUGHOUT THE CITY. 
Blood streams down the woman's face as she turns toward the torchlight. 
IT IS TAMARA. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CAMPFIRE - NIGHT 
Tamara leaps up, startled. Her face is covered in sweat, her eyes as terrified as the victim from her dream. 
Nearby we hear screaming of another type. Remo. 
EXT. OPEN FIELD - NIGHT 
MUFFLED SCREAMS. We pull out of Remo's wide mouth, stuffed with cloth, trying to bellow in uncontrollable agony. 
A hand comes in and pulls out the cloth. It's Conan. 
REMO Please! Mercy! 
CONAN You are more fit to inflict torture than to endure it. Your life is not nailed to your spine as my peoples are. 
We PULL OUT, revealing that Remo arms are spread-eagle, attached to ropes pulled taught by opposing tree limbs. 
Conan nudges him with the point of his sword. Remo SCREAMS in agony, then speaks in his savage, broken dialect. 
REMO Stop! Stop! I know how make you rich! Rich! You hear name Khalar Singh? You have what he want. The girl, yes? Khalar give you anything for her. More! 
CONAN Why would he? 
Remo pauses, not wanting to answer. Conan put the blade back to Remo's neck. 
REMO She could be the one. 
CONAN One what? 
REMO The one. The Queen. 
Conan's mind races, remembering Khalar's words from long ago. 
CONAN A queen in hiding. 
REMO Yes! Yes! I sent to find her. Bring her. He wait for me now, at Great Wall. He pay you anything. More! 
CONAN So I should ransom her to your master? Not exactly loyal -- but still, a good idea. 
TAMARA What does that mean? 
CONAN Clean hands mean nothing. Kings and Queens claim more lives than I will ever meet, and not a drop is spilled in their presence. 
TAMARA What are you talking about? I've done no harm to you. I've done no harm to anyone. 
Conan confronts her, enraged. 
CONAN You lie. You are the very reason my people are dead. 
TAMARA Are you mad? I never met your people. 
CONAN But Khalar Singh has. He destroyed my people, looking for you. 
Suddenly Tamara understands. 
TAMARA The one who came for us? His name is Khalar Singh? 
CONAN You know this. 
TAMARA We did not know who sought us, only that we were sought. 
CONAN You hid from him. And while you did, others died in your place. 
TAMARA If we did not hide, countless more would have been killed! You do not know what purpose he has for our queen. 
CONAN And I do not care, for he will not live to see it bear fruit! 
Tamara is shocked. 
TAMARA Wait -- you seek to kill this Khalar? We have the same aim. He takes my queen to Khor Kalba. I have sworn an oath to protect her. I can help you. 
CONAN Enough lies. 
Conan puts the gag back in her mouth and binds her hands. 
EXT. ROCK RIDGE - NIGHT 
Conan watches the Great Wall silently, absently playing with a DAGGER in his hand as he gauges the many guardposts along the wall. The archers. The barrels of oil. The cavalry. 
He feels eyes upon him and looks down at Tamara, still bound and gagged, her eyes burning holes in his forehead. Conan pulls out her gag. 
CONAN You will keep quiet. 
TAMARA What use is talking? You won't believe a word I speak. I only want to know this -- how will you kill Khalar? You are too big to play the assassin. 
CONAN You will be the lure that will draw me close. Then I will scale the wall and cut him down where he stands. 
TAMARA And the archers and cavalry? They will be napping? 
CONAN They will not be a problem. 
Tamara thinks about it. 
TAMARA No. Not good enough. 
Conan is shocked by her brazen response. 
CONAN Did I ask? 
TAMARA Should you fail, I'll be left without a weapon, helpless in my enemies hands. Let me help, Conan. 
Conan responds by putting the gag back in her mouth. 
CONAN I will not fail. 
But still Tamara glares at him -- and we can see the hint of Conan's resolve bending. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. GREAT WALL - DAY 
Khalar Singh stands atop the wall, awaiting Conan. Fariq draws close. 
FARIQ Let me take care of this thief, father. He's beneath your notice. 
KHALAR SINGH He killed Remo, likely his cavalry legion as well. Whatever he is, he is more than a mere thief. 
Conan spins to see the rough, brightly dressed Zamoran pirate ARTUS leaping down from the quarterdeck, his sword out. 
The other ZAMORAN PIRATES draw near as well. Tamara sees the scene, suddenly uncomfortable. 
CONAN I was just wondering what that smell was. (sniffs near Artus) Now I know. 
ARTUS We take no stowaways. Only paying passengers. You've best be laden with gold. 
CONAN If it's metal you seek, perhaps you'd settle for steel. 
In a flash Conan's sword lunges forward. CLANG. It meets Artus's, sparking as they collide. Artus LAUGHS. 
CONAN (CONT'D) Still fast Artus. 
ARTUS Fast, deadly, charming, rakishly handsome. (to the pirates) All hail Conan! 
PIRATES All hail Conan! 
Artus slaps his hand on Conan's back and Conan winces in pain. 
ARTUS Sorry, friend. Looks like you've had a rough road. 
CONAN It won't get easier. Khalar Singh lives. He'll be coming for me and the girl. 
ARTUS Good. We're scrapping for a fight these days. 
CONAN This one may be more than you wish. I need you to get me close to Khor Kalba. 
Artus rubs his beard. 
ARTUS Rest up. We'll get you there. 
Conan withdraws to his room. 
INT. ROOM - NIGHT 
Conan collapses on the bed as Tamara follows him inside. 
TAMARA We go to Khor Kalba? 
CONAN I do. 
Conan puts a brawny arm over his tired eyes. 
TAMARA No. We do. 
CONAN Just leave me to sleep. 
But Tamara doesn't leave, forcing Conan to respond. 
CONAN (CONT'D) You would risk your life for royalty? Why? 
Tamara pauses, realizing she must trust Conan to gain his help. 
TAMARA Because she represent freedom, not just ours but all Hyboria's. What do you know of Acheron? 
CONAN A tall tale. Meant to scare children. 
TAMARA It is no fable. It's my people's history. Acheron was an empire that swallowed all of Hyboria, led by the King and his legion of demon warriors. Unstoppable. Insatiable. Immortal. But still it had one weakness. For the true power of Acheron laid not with its King, but the Queen. Every twenty years, a new queen from the royal line would be coronated with a crown of iron. Spikes would pierce her, slowly drain her precious blood, and through her suffering Acheron would remain invincible. Until one of my ancestors, an Acheronian himself, put a stop to this tyranny. He and others spirited the new Queen away, hiding her from the empire and all those who would raise it again. 
CONAN What care I for queens and empires? 
Conan turns to head back to his bed. Tamara grabs him, incensed. 
TAMARA Didn't you hear me? This evil faces us all. All of civilization will fall if the army of Acheron is raised again. 
CONAN I heard. Only I would happily put all of your "civilization" to the torch myself. 
TAMARA But -- you owe me a debt, you thankless oaf! 
CONAN My only debt is to my people. And it still lies unpaid. 
EXT. MAN OF WAR - NIGHT 
The enormous siege vessel lies before a burning PORT CITY. 
A SAILOR, crying, grovels on his knees before Khalar and his men. 
Sure enough, the stern of the ship begins to part, revealing - 
A MASSIVE CROSSBOW 
Mounted with a barbed harpoon, fifteen feet long. 
CONAN Fire! 
They fire the weapon. The harpoon races for the bow of the Warship, a thick rope trailing it. It smashes into the wood, ripping through it like it was paper. 
CONAN (CONT'D) Rip her apart! 
The Pirates grab the heavy rope and run, pulling the rope, and the harpoon back towards the Wasp. 
As it's pulled out, the barbs of the harpoon rip a wider hole in the warship. 
WARSHIP 
The Captain and crew are in a panic. Men rush to patch the gaping hole in the hull. 
SAILOR We're taking on water! 
CAPTAIN Hard to port! 
UKAFA No. Let them fire again! 
CAPTAIN We will sink. 
Ukafa guts the captain with his spear. 
UKAFA So be it. (to his spearmen) Get below. Be ready. 
GALLEY 
The pirates load the harpoon in the crossbow device a second time. 
CONAN Fire! 
It fires, smashing again into the wooden hull of the Warship. 
WARSHIP - INSIDE 
The harpoon lodges deep inside the hull -- where Ukafa and his spearmen wait. 
UKAFA Now! 
They rush forward and grab onto the harpoon. 
GALLEY 
ARTUS Bring her back! 
Again, the pirates pull the harpoon back out. It falls into the water as they pull on the rope tied to it. 
They do not notice Ukafa and his dozen spearmen clasping the very same rope as its pulled toward the Galley. 
Artus looks at the Warship. It's foundering and sinking quickly. 
ARTUS (CONT'D) She's dead in the water! 
A CHEER goes up among the pirates -- 
And then one PIRATE takes a spear through the chest. All eyes turn to the side of the Wasp, where Ukafa and his men climb aboard. 
Conan's eyes alight with fury. 
CONAN Good. I was growing weary with boredom. 
Conan motions to a pair of pirates. 
CONAN (CONT'D) Hide her below. 
BATTLE 
The Spearmen rush to the attack. The pirates spring to the defense of the ship, countering the Spearmen with cutlass and dagger. Ukafa marshals his men as a fierce battle rages. 
UKAFA Find the girl! 
INT. COLOSSUS HEAD - DUSK 
Conan pulls off his jerkin, revealing a torso rippling with muscles. 
CONAN We'll rest here until morning. 
TAMARA Will I awake alone? Do you intend to leave me? 
CONAN I would do you a kindness. Khor Kalba will bring only death. 
TAMARA Please, Conan. Artus told me of how you lost your tribe. I too had to watch as my people were taken from me. 
Conan ignores her, gathering wood for a fire. 
TAMARA (CONT'D) All I ask is that you let me travel with you. I too have a purpose. I must get to the queen. I would rather you kill me here, than fail her again. 
Conan continues collecting, infuriating Tamara. 
TAMARA (CONT'D) I was wrong about you. You are no fearless warrior. Your heart is closed to all but fear -- and hate. 
Conan draws flint, starting the fire. Only once his task is complete does he answer Tamara. 
CONAN We leave at dawn. I will not break stride for you. Not once. I will get you into Khor Kalba. Beyond that I have my purpose, and you yours. 
Tamara offers a thankful nod, her anger subsiding. 
TAMARA Nice fire. Does it mean you'll actually cook the meat this time? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. KHALAR SINGH'S WARSHIP - DUSK 
Khalar looks at the destruction of Ukafa's warship, the bodies filling the water. Khalar spots Ukafa's dead body floating there, harpoon still lodged in his chest. 
The ship's CAPTAIN approaches. 
CAPTAIN The pirate ship sailed to the west. Even under full sail it'll be no easy task to overtake her. 
Just then, a FALCON approaches. The Falconer retrieves it, a parchment tied to its talon. He passes it on to Khalar Singh. 
Khalar Singh reads it, a smile creeping upon his face. 
KHALAR SINGH Fariq has done well. (to the Captain) Head east, back to Khor Kalba. 
CAPTAIN But our chase points the other way. 
KHALAR SINGH The chase is over. They come to me now. 
EXT. FOREST - LATE DAY 
Tamara watches Conan from a distance. He silently stalks prey with nothing more than a knife. 
A BOAR 
Its ears listen intently, aware. Suddenly, it bolts. 
CONAN 
Is just as quick, racing through the forest on a intercepting course with the great beast. He leaps over a fallen log, throwing his dagger with a sweep of his arm. 
The boar goes down, the blade through its jugular. Conan walks up to the struggling beast, showing no satisfaction as he mercifully SNAPS its neck. 
INT. COLOSSUS HEAD - NIGHT 
The great haunches of the beast roast over the fire. Conan turns the meat. 
Behind him, Tamara approaches. She has cleaned herself up, her white robe translucent in light of the fire, her wet hair glistening. 
Conan can't help but notice her supple skin, her curves. He stops chewing. 
Tamara notices. Embarrassed, she turns so that he can only see her side. Conan returns to his food. 
TAMARA What were the women of your tribe like, Conan? 
CONAN They fought beside the men. 
TAMARA So they were equals. And your mother? 
Conan meets its eye. 
CONAN (CONT'D) Do not test me, beast. 
TAMARA Is there not a living thing you can be at peace with? 
They ride into the city, past the troops. 
EXT. KHOR KHALBA CITY - ENTRANCE - DAY 
Conan and Tamara walk through the town's teeming market, a otherworldly bazaar replete with animal sacrifices, veiled faces and not a hint of morality. 
STRANGER 
A FIGURE, his form hidden beneath a cloak, spots Conan and Tamara as they enter, and begins to follow them. 
WOODEN PLATFORM 
The city ends at the sheer cliff wall at the bottom of the plateau. There stands a WOODEN PLATFORM that is lowered by a massive winch, unloading a cavalry regiment and then raising back up to the fortress above. 
CONAN It's probably only way into Khalar's fortress. I'm sure it is heavily guarded at all times, day and night. 
TAMARA So we must try to scale the cliff. 
CONAN And dodge arrows as we do so? 
Conan motions up to the winch. Standing beside it are a half dozen of the four-armed ARCHERS. 
CONAN (CONT'D) During the day, we'd easily be spotted on the climb. And it would be useless to even attempt at night. No, we must find another way. 
STRANGER'S POV 
As Conan continues around the base of the mesa, the Figure following Conan is joined by TWO OTHERS. 
ALLEYWAY 
Conan and Tamara reach a less crowded area of the village when a VOICE rings out behind them. 
VOICE (O.S.) Halt. 
Conan spins, sword at the ready. From out of the shadows comes a pair of MEN, their beady eyes fixed on Tamara. 
CONAN Thieves. You'll regret finding me. 
VOICE (O.S.) I think not. 
From out of the shadows steps the ONE-EYED THIEF, the same one who Conan saved from Lucius' beatings. He smiles at Conan, lifting a KEY from a rope around his neck 
ONE EYED THIEF It took longer than you think to cut this out of Lucius' stomach. After all that work, I figured I'd keep it -- for old times' sake. 
INT. THIEVES' TAVERN - AFTERNOON 
A rundown hall, built beneath the city. Wooden supports hold up the buildings of the entire city block overhead. 
And within the hall, a gathering of THIEVES and ROGUES. They're a flinty collection, many of them missing fingers or even hands, evidence of Khalar's cruel justice. 
They eat and drink, sharing tales and tips, WENCHES and SERVING WOMEN their cautious eyes following the Cimmerian outsider. 
The One Eyed Thief takes them to an open table, and immediately three of the serving women descend upon Conan, caressing him. 
Tamara watches this, jaw dropped, and manages a COUGH, even as a SERVING GIRL delivers mead to the table. 
Conan just smiles as he enjoys the silky bodies of the nubile women, their breasts practically framing his face. 
CONAN What? Do you wish to join in? 
CUT TO: 
Conan cleans mead from his face, scowling at Tamara, as the One-Eyed Thief uses the tabletop to explain the fortress. 
ONE EYED THIEF --so you were right about the platform. You'll be long dead before you make it top. Same with scaling the cliff. There's no known way to break into the fortress. 
CONAN So that's it? 
ONE EYED THIEF I didn't say that. I just said there's no known way in -- because no one has ever tried to. But breaking out -- that's another story. It's not much easier, but it's possible. 
The One Eyed Thief offers the same gap-toothed grin. 
CONAN (CONT'D) Let's go. 
EXT. CIRCULAR STAIRWAY - CISTERN 
As they work their way up the circular stairwell, towards a thin shaft of firelight up ahead. 
INT. DUNGEON - NIGHT 
Carved out of solid black rock, both sides of the broad corridor are occasionally punctuated by thick steel doors, leading to prison cells. 
Conan and Tamara emerge from a sewer drain, pushing their way to the floor of the hallway. The heavy darkness presses in on Conan's torch like a sentient, animate thing. 
The floor of the corridor is lined with DEAD BODIES, in varying states of decay. There are buckets, filled with entrails and feces, upended. Tamara put her hand over her mouth. 
Conan continues down the hallway. He and Tamara begin to hear the sound of EERIE CHANTING. 
TAMARA What is that? 
Up ahead, the torch-lined dungeon plunges into darkness as the torches end. Conan holds up his own torch, struggling to peer into the black void. 
CONAN Nothing good. 
Conan takes a step forward when suddenly a POWERFUL WIND blows out his torch. A moment later, there's the sound of A GATE WHISTLING DOWN AND CRASHING INTO THE GROUND. 
In the darkness, comes a DEEP, EARTHY CHUCKLE. 
VOICE (O.S.) Welcome. 
A HOST OF OIL LIGHTS SUDDENLY COME UP, revealing that the gate that closed behind them was actually just a door to a vast CAGE built around a massive PIT. 
INT. THE PIT - NIGHT 
The same pit where Fariq sacrificed the female monk, only now, a half dozen COMBATANTS stand on the grid above the void. 
Hanging high above the pit, in baskets, lie other PRISONERS, including Tamara's fellow female monks. Several of them YELL out Tamara's name as they see her. 
And watching everything, from an amphitheater above the cage, is the massive Akhun and several of his slavers. 
AKHUN Which ever one of you slaves gets me the girl, lives. 
The Combatants all close in on Conan and Tamara, each taking a different plank way to get to them. 
CONAN (TO TAMARA) Stay behind me. 
Tamara steps behind Conan, who blocks the others' path to her. 
CONAN (CONT'D) Who dies first? 
The first two COMBATANTS attack as one, the first wielding a short sword, the other a pike. The pikeman thrusts first, Conan deftly stepping aside, then pulling the pike, sending the wielder off balance and into the abyss. 
The prisoner with the short sword doesn't fare much better, as Conan evades his swipe and decapitates him with a single blow. 
TAMARA 
Tamara sees that the prisoner baskets are suspended by the top half of the metallic cage. She begins scaling the cage, her eyes set upon the imprisoned monks. 
CONAN 
Three more COMBATANTS step in to replace the fallen duo. Conan readies himself as the first one steps up, only to have the combatant suddenly grabbed by a ENORMOUS TENTACLE, much like the one Conan cut through earlier. 
TENTACLED MONSTER 
Up from the darkness of the pit comes a gargantuan monster; a gigantic octopus-like behemoth, with multiple tentacles that feed a pulsing black orifice lined with razor sharp teeth. 
The creature reaches out and grabs another SCREAMING combatants, lowering him to its mouth and devouring him in its gnashing maw. 
The creature reaches for Conan, who ducks underneath the tentacle, the slices it off. He immediately turns back to check on Tamara -- and he discovers she's not there. 
He looks up to see Tamara scaling the cage, now nearly fifty feet directly above him. 
CONAN (CONT'D) Crom! 
AKHUN 
The massive warrior spots Tamara getting close to the prisoner baskets and motions to his two Jailers. 
AKHUN Get her! 
Tamara looks at the other monks. 
TAMARA (CONT'D) Our duty was to keep the queen safe. We failed. But if Khalar brings her to Acheron, it will rise again -- and all our peoples' sacrifice is for nothing. (MORE) 
TAMARA (CONT'D) So if the queen is not free by the stroke of midnight -- she must be already dead. 
The other monks nod and they start to head off. Tamara is the last to head off, her eyes burning into Conan's. 
CONAN You want my help again. 
TAMARA No. You kept your word, I'll keep mine. I pray you fulfill your debt. 
Tamara kisses Conan's cheek one last time and heads off. 
INT. CATACOMBS - NIGHT 
The monk travel in single file, the Elder Monk leading the way. Suddenly, she stops, motioning to an entranceway ahead. 
ELDER MONK (WHISPERING) Guard. 
TAMARA (WHISPERING) Don't kill him. We need to find out which way Ilira was taken. 
The Elder Monk nods and slips up ahead. We hear a SMASH. 
INT. CATACOMB ENTRANCEWAY - NIGHT 
The stunned GUARD lies before the assembled monks. Tamara glares down at him. 
TAMARA Tell us where the last girl was taken. 
The Guard just LAUGHS at them through bloody teeth. 
CONAN (O.S.) Let me ask. 
The Guard's face drops as Conan steps out from the darkness. 
TAMARA Your debt -- 
CONAN Will be where your queen is. 
Tamara smiles. She knows it is a half truth. 
INT. FORTRESS - THRONE ROOM - NIGHT 
As Conan and the monks enter, the throne room is empty, scattered light barely illuminating the expansive chamber. 
Ilira sits on the throne, crown on her slumped head. Tamara runs over to her. 
TAMARA Ilira! 
She raises Ilira's head, only to discover lifeless eyes. Tamara cradles her best friend's face. 
TAMARA (CONT'D) She's dead. It's over. 
VOICE (O.S.) Not yet. 
Before the monks can react, ARROWS STREAK OUT FROM THE DARKNESS, killing them all. Only Conan is quick enough to dodge his arrow by diving aside. 
When he comes up, Khalar has Tamara, his sword at her neck. Several ARCHERS stand behind him, at the ready. 
KHALAR SINGH It's only begun. Because that one was not the heir to Acheron. 
Khalar smiles down at Tamara. 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) She is. 
Slowly, what he's saying dawns on her. 
TAMARA No. It can't be -- 
KHALAR SINGH Secretive, the traitors of Acheron. It wasn't easy, but Fariq finally wrung honesty from the girl. That poor innocent was forced to live a lie, even as the truth was kept from the queen herself. (MORE) 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) (TO CONAN) And you did the rest, barbarian. My thanks for delivering the Queen to me. 
TAMARA No! 
Suddenly, a trap door opens beneath Conan and drops down in the darkness, landing with a heavy THUD. 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) The Queen. Shackle her! 
THE ALTAR 
In agony, Tamara pulls one of the spikes out, then another. She pushes with all her might, lifting the crown of iron off her bloodied head -- 
When the Guardsmen charge her, pin her down, and force the crown back on. 
THUMP, THUMP! The crown spikes imbed themselves even deeper as Tamara SCREAMS. The blood now fills the channels of the altar. 
WE FOLLOW the trail of blood, down the side of the altar, in a spiral channel around the leg, and in a wide circle around the altar until reaching the channel's end -- 
THE FIRST DROP OF TAMARA'S BLOOD TOUCHES THE SACRIFICIAL POOL. It BOILS instantly, multiplying itself exponentially, bubbling forth and filling the entire pool. 
AND ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE. A massive earthquake jolts the entire cave. 
THE KILLING FLOOR 
As Khalar Singh and Conan battle, the ground beneath them on the wide cave floor CRACKS and SPLINTERS. 
THUMP-THUMP! The earthquake intensifies and the entire floor of the cave GIVES WAY, tumbling into an incredible abyss. Conan and Khalar alike grab onto the only rocks they can reach to prevent them from falling further. 
Conan ends up against one of the walls on the side of the cave. Khalar clings to the rocks on the edge of the sacred pool. 
Their bodies are illuminated by a fiery glow. They look below, searching for the source of the glow. 
ACHERON 
Another two hundred feet deep lies the golden spired city of ancient Acheron. The cave is but a forechamber, the slightest taste of the true glory and horror of Acheron. 
And as they stare down into the ancient city, the shadows there MOVE. 
Is it a trick of the light? No. Whatever the dark forms are, they are coming this way, climbing the tallest demonic spires and leaping impossibly far to climb up after Conan and Khalar Singh. 
Khalar gazes down at the city with wide eyes. 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) Beyond my dreams -- 
THE ALTAR 
Tamara, her body's blood nearly drained, is still shackled to the altar, which now teeters over the edge of chasm, poised to fall into the fiery depths. 
TAMARA Conan!!! 
CONAN 
On the other side of the abyss, Conan spots her and scales the cave wall, up to a tiered plateau. He moves quickly, trying to get to Tamara. 
KHALAR SINGH 
Khalar watches, entranced, as the first of the creatures rises out of the pit. They climb the walls like insects, clinging to the walls, their heads swiveling like a praying mantis. 
ACHERONIAN WARRIORS 
The look like the statues above -- a hybrid -- part human, part demon. Their skin is a perfect black, armor carved of black bone, faces once human but now demonic with blood red eyes and gnashing teeth. 
They advance on Khalar Singh, who is furthest down now that Conan climbs upward towards Tamara. 
KHALAR SINGH (IN ACHERONIAN) I am Khalar Singh, King of Acheron. I command you to kneel! 
And this demonic horde advances right for him, their razor sharp teeth bared. Unsure, Khalar grips his tulwars tight. The demonic creatures draw close, and they -- kneel. They climb out of the abyss and immediately lower their heads before Khalar Singh. 
Out of the corner of his eye, Khalar spots Conan, drawing near. 
KHALAR SINGH (CONT'D) (IN ACHERONIAN) Show him the might of the army of Acheron! 
But they do not rush to follow the order. They stir. One of them with more ornate bone armor than the rest looks over at Khalar's Guardsmen. 
ACHERONIAN COMMANDER (IN ACHERONIAN) First, we feed. 
Its voice is somewhere between a whisper and a hiss. 
KHALAR SINGH Fine. Take your fill. I will kill him myself. 
CONAN 
Conan is on an intercept course with Tamara, leaping across chasms from statue to statue. Just below him, the first wave of Acheronian Warriors reach the Khalar's remaining Guardsmen. 
