THE COOLER 
Written by 
Frank Hannah & Wayne Kramer 
EXT. STYGIAN DARKNESS - NIGHT 
STYGIAN DARKNESS 
The suggestion of traveling through space. Suddenly a star sparkles to life in the distance. Gives rise to another... and another... until we're looking at a whole galaxy of stars. No, not stars. LIGHTS. NEON LIGHTS. A throbbing skyline of neon. LAS VEGAS, NEVADA. As seen from a descending aerial shot. We PLUNGE down into her shimmering embrace... DISSOLVING TO: 
EXT. LAS VEGAS STRIP - NIGHT 
Cruising the Strip, taking in modern day Las Vegas. Sin City gone theme park. Gigantic behemoths of pulsating neon: THE MGM GRAND... EXCALIBUR... LUXOR... TREASURE ISLAND... passing revamped faithfuls like CAESARS and THE DESERT INN... 
...then heading DOWNTOWN to Fremont Street, where "old school" Vegas makes its last stand. BINION'S HORSESHOE, THE FOUR QUEENS, THE LAS VEGAS CLUB arid... 
THE SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO 
One thing's for sure. This place ain't no bastard child of Epcott Center. At least, not yet. Sure there's some flash going on, but it's more class than overkill. 
This is where the pro's come to savor a time forgotten. A joint where every dealer knows your name. Where part of the allure is the smell of moldy paneling and the tactile whisper of worn felt. Where "funny business" doesn't just get you blacklisted... It gets you dead. 
Lets us enter. 
INT. SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO - NIGHT 
CREDITS SEQUENCE 
TRACKING through the casino floor; highlighting SLOT MACHINE PAY-OFFS and pockets of rowdy players winning at BLACKJACK, CRAPS and ROULETTE. It's just one of those nights. The tables are on fire. 
A FLOOR MANAGER nods as a hefty bet is paid out to a shooter at a craps table: He checks out his watch, anxious for the arrival of... 
INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT 
From behind a FIGURE in a suit. All we see is a murky reflection in gold elevator doors. The floor numbers descending rapidly... 
INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT 
STICKMEN, CROUPIERS, DEALERS 
all anticipating the arrival of... 
INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT 
The elevator doors open... and we PAN DOWN to the figure's feet. He steps out onto the casino floor... and right away we notice he has a pronounced limp. 
Following behind the figure. We haven't seen his features yet... (and won't for a while.) 
TRACKING SERIES  
-- the figure (seen in soft focus) passes a ROULETTE TABLE, the wheel already in mid-spin. His hand casually brushes the side of the table... and we PAN ACROSS to the wheel -- just in time to see the ball landing on 00. The players HOWL defeat. The croupier rakes in all the losing checks with a slight nod of respect to the passing wraith... 
-- TRACKING PAST SOME BLACKJACK TABLES... RACKING from the passing figure (still in soft focus) to a DEALER calling out: 
DEALER Insurance? 
At the next table, ANOTHER DEALER pulls a six card 21. Off the players' stunned reactions. No way! One of the players instinctively glances behind him... but the figure has moved on. The dealer stifles a grin, her eyes following the figure as he heads toward... 
-- A HOT CRAPS TABLE. The CROWD APPLAUDS as the shooter lands a hard eight. The dice are fished back to the player. He shakes them up with double ought bravado. We RACK from his hand LARGE in the f.g. to our murky figure passing in the background. The player throws... (we keep tracking with the figure) as the stickman calls it: SEVEN OUT! to a thundering chorus of disappointment. 
-- Our figure passes by in the foreground, while in the background, we see a growing line of shame at one of the ATM MACHINES. 
-- Following behind our figure as he turns into a corridor of SLOT MACHINES. CUT TO REVERSE ANGLE from the far end of the corridor. As the murky figure approaches, a player in the f.g. hits a jackpot. 
It's in their reactions. A slight hesitation of the dice. 
Fingers tensing over a pile of chips. A hand tugging at a tie. 
The Cooler has arrived. 
As he reaches table eleven, Natalie intercepts him with a short glass of Chivas Regal. 
NATALIE This is you, right? 
BERNIE (takes it from her) Thanks. 
NATALIE Joe said I should stick around. You say something to Shelly? 
Bernie just smiles at her. 
NATALIE Wow. That was fast. Hey, thanks. 
She offers up a smile. It jump-starts those dormant eyes. 
Her whole face comes alive. Notches her up from an eight to a ten. Bernie immediately glances away. He's afraid what she might read in his gaze. 
BERNIE Don't mention it. 
Bernie gestures her over to table eleven. Immediately makes the HIGH ROLLER in question. A good old boy named BULLDOG. 
He's the one boasting loudly as he shakes the dice with one hand. 
BULLDOG I'll make you a fortune on five and nine. C'mon forty-five-sixty-three fifty-four! 
Bernie grabs the drink from Natalie's tray, intentionally bumps Bulldog... 
BERNIE Hey, buddy, is this your drink? 
BULLDOG Back off, pal. I'm on a roll here. 
Another man gladly accepts the drink. Meanwhile, Bulldog sends the dice high up into the air. They drop perfectly on the table. The stickman calls it. 
STICKMAN Seven out! 
BULLDOG Mother-fucker! 
STICKMAN Thank you for those bets, folks. 
The croupiers hungrily devour the chips from the table. 
Bernie moves on quietly before anyone notices. 
But he's been noticed all right. By Natalie. Not quite sure what she's just witnessed. Who is this guy? 
We hear a VOICE over the intercom. 
VOICE (V.O.) Conway, party of twelve, please check your reservation at the Paradise Lounge. 
Bernie reacts immediately to the code words over the speaker. 
BERNIE (to himself) Yeah, yeah, I'm comin'... 
CUT TO: 
INT. CASINO FLOOR CRAPS TABLE - MONTAGE - NIGHT 
A -- a player makes a hard six at a craps table. The players howl... 
B -- from the same angle we PAN UP from losing dice to the same guy. Bernie looming large in the background. 
SHELLY Revitalize? What are you talking about? We did thirty-five million last year. 
Nicky shoots a look over at Larry and Marty. Larry takes this as his cue. 
LARRY First off, Shelly, I want you to know, I have nothing but respect for you. You've done a fantastic job with the Shangri-la for the last sixteen years. No one would dispute that. 
NICKY Yeah, no one doubts that, Shelly. 
Shelly nods carefully. But... 
LARRY But, the business has changed out here. You just have to take a look at the Strip to see what I'm talking about. 
SHELLY You mean, that amusement park mook fest out there? You know what that is? That's a fucking violation of something that used to be beautiful. That used to have class. Like a gorgeous high priced hooker with an exclusive clientele. And then that Steve Wynn cocksucker knocks her up and puts her in a family way. 
Nicky and Larry exchange looks. Marty drops his gaze into his lap. 
SHELLY Now she's nothing but a cheap, fat whore hiding behind too much makeup. I look at her and see all those ugly stretch marks and I want to cry. 'Cause I remember her as she was. 
LARRY Yes, well... there's no denying the bottom line. Those eyesores are raking it in. And we can't compete against that. 
SHELLY What? You think I'm trying to compete with that? You think this joint's about bringing in the stroller crowd? Fresh off some fucking E-ticket ride, looking to break the house on red and black. Fremont's never been about that bullshit. This is where old time and real money comes to play. 
LARRY The numbers, they don't back you up, Shelly. Nostalgia's grand. We all love nostalgia -- but it belongs in a museum. I think it's time to decide whether you're running a museum or a casino. 
Shelly is close to losing it. He catches himself, takes a breath. 
NICKY Hey, forget about it. We'll talk later. Over dinner. 
MARTY (rubs his hands together) So, how's the action? 
Larry shoots him a disapproving look. Off Shelly's disturbed expression. He's already calculating serious damage control. 
INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT 
Bernie makes his way across the casino floor, when he's intercepted by Shelly. 
SHELLY Bernie. Mr. Cool. Got a moment? 
BERNIE I was just heading over to -- 
SHELLY It can wait. 
Shelly escorts Bernie over to a nearby bar area. The BARTENDER zips over with some drinks. 
SHELLY How's the knee? 
Bernie shrugs. Natalie steps up to the bar a few feet away. 
Puts in a drink order. She catches Bernie's eye. Nods. 
Bernie smiles. 
SHELLY I was speaking to this orthopedic surgeon over at Vegas Memorial. He tells me they can replace a man's entire kneecap with titanium. It's the kinda thing that costs a shitload, but since the man's into us for five hundred large, I'm sure we could -- 
BERNIE (stealing glances at Natalie) I told you, I'm not gonna be around after Sunday. 
SHELLY (sighs) Where you gonna go, Bernie? Where the fuck are you gonna go that's better'n here? I got you covered in this town. People, they know you work for me, that's currency in your pocket. That's fuckin' respect when you walk the floor. Where you gonna get that anyplace else? 
BERNIE (sighs) Seven days, Shelly. Seven days and I'm out from under. 
A beautiful WOMAN in a low cut dress, sashays her way past them, heading for a high rollers craps table. Shelly reaches out, napkin in hand, grabs her arm. Hands her his card. She snatches it, looks it over. Immediately loses all attitude. 
Oh shit. 
SHELLY That's right. I like to know who's shopping it in my neighborhood. You wanna keep working the Shangri-la, you come see me tomorrow morning in my office. We'll go over the rules together. And before you come, you bring me a clean bill of health. OK? 
Natalie shudders in disgust. She spins around to leave... runs smack into Bernie, spilling her tray of drinks on him. 
NATALIE Oh shit... Sorry... I'm such a klutz. 
Bernie wipes himself off, helps her pick up the pieces. 
BERNIE It's all right. Happens. 
Natalie tries to wipe him down a bit more. 
NATALIE Sorry, this guy... fuckin' hands, you know... 
BERNIE S'okay. You might want to stick around. 
Bernie wiggles his way next to Pinkerton. He gives the stickman a certain look. 
STICKMAN Excuse me, Mr. Pinkerton. You have no hard eight. 
PINKERTON (throwing in a chip) Gimmie a hundred dollar hard eight. 
Bernie just watches as Pinkerton throws the dice. 
STICKMAN Eight the hard way! 
The players go nuts. The stickman taps the felt in front of the shooter. 
STICKMAN Nine hundred dollars to Mr. Pinkerton. 
PINKERTON Parlay! Parlay! 
The Boxman seated at the center looks up at him. 
PINKERTON C'mon. You can take that action. 
The Boxman feigns concern, then nods in approval. 
PINKERTON That's what I'm talking about. None of this low limit bullshit. 
Just as the stickman feeds Pinkerton the dice, Bernie flips a dollar chip over toward the center of the table. Natalie peers between them to catch a glimpse. 
BERNIE Dollar hard eight. 
The chip lands on Pinkerton's parlayed bet. He releases the dice from his stubby little fingers. 
STICKMAN Eight easy! Easy eight! Hard eight comes down. 
The players cry out in defeat. Pinkerton grumbles to himself. He fingers his rail of chips. 
PINKERTON Five hundred dollar hard eight. And press my nine up two units. 
He throws in the chips. The croupier places his bets. The dice are fed back to him. He throws. 
STICKMAN Easy way eight! Eight easy! 
Pinkerton is fit to be tied. After a passing moment of clarity he empties his entire rail. 
PINKERTON Hard eight. 
The entire table stops down for a second. 
PLAYER (O.S.) Way to go, Pinkie! Bet the farm. 
Pinkerton sets his dice carefully and lets them fly. 
STICKMAN Seven out! 
LARRY (re: Bernie) Let me guess? This is one of your "coolers?" 
SHELLY Why don't you announce it to the whole fucking joint? 
LARRY (lowers his voice) Man, they told me you were a stickler for the old ways. But coolers? What is this guy, some kind of degenerate gambler? Reformed card shark? He doesn't look too effective to me. 
SHELLY He's the best. Take it from me. 
LARRY Sure. Whatever. But there ways -- subtle ways -- to keep things in our favor. I'm talking more forward thinking methods. 
SHELLY That right? I suppose you got a whole fucking prospectus on the subject. 
LARRY As a matter of fact I do. Like, right off the bat, I can tell you this wallpaper isn't going to cut it. It's too uplifting. I would go with more muted tones. 
SHELLY Yeah? Wallpaper? 
LARRY And personally, I think the waitresses can all pop another button or two. Myself, I wouldn't hire anything less than a C cup. 
Shelly looks to Bernie. You believe this mook? Larry extracts a CD from his jacket... 
LARRY Know what this is? Music to be sure. Pleasant, non-intrusive. But blended in at a subsonic level is a mantra. "Lose... lose... lose." And that's just skimming the surface. We really need to talk, Shelly. 
Shelly is close to losing it. When MORRIE, the manager of the Paradise, comes running up... 
MORRIE Shelly, you better come quick. 
INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
Shelly, Larry and Bernie following behind Morrie as he hastily leads them down a hallway of the Shangri-la's best suites. They arrive at an open door, the sound of a TELEVISION beckoning them inside... 
INT. BUDDY STAFFORD'S SUITE - NIGHT 
Starting on the TV set: "Lost Horizon" (1937) is playing. 
It's the scene where Robert Conway (Ronald Coleman), his brother and Maria are leaving the lost city in the end. 
Conway looks back for one last tearful view of paradise. 
PANNING OFF THE SCREEN to a pair of naked feet on the floor next to the bed... revealing Buddy slumped against the side of the mattress... a hypodermic needle protruding from his arm. Death glaze fixated on the screen. 
Bernie slumps back against the wall. Catches his breath. 
Shelly just stares at Buddy, a slight tremor of grief threatening his granite features. He glances over at Larry, who takes in Buddy's deathly repose without a hint of emotion. Larry meets Shelly's eye with a subtle smirk of one-upmanship. 
An incendiary beat passes between them. Then... 
SHELLY (to Morrie) Get a hold of his daughter. Assist her with the arrangements. The Shangri- la will take care of everything. 
MORRIE What about the Paradise? 
SHELLY She goes dark tonight. 
LARRY That won't be necessary. 
Shelly and Larry exchange looks again. Bernie picks up on it. The tension in the room threatens nuclear fission. A loud ANIMAL ROAR reverberates on the soundtrack... 
accompanied by jungle-like percussion... as we CUT TO: 
INT. THE PARADISE LOUNGE - NIGHT 
A "now performing" poster on a metal stand: JOHNNY CAPPELLA live at the Paradise Lounge! 
PANNING off the sign and following a COUPLE through the doors into the theater. 
...our eye drawn to the stage. A troupe of gorgeous FEMALE DANCERS in leopard print G-strings, grinding their hips to the muscular rhythm. 
BERNIE You know, you don't have to tell me this. 
NATALIE I want to, Bernie. Better you know the worst of me up front. Later, when I'm already invested in you, it'll be too hard to come clean. After I tell you this, you'll probably... I mean, I'll understand. 
She tears her eyes away from Bernie. Bernie can't believe what he's hearing. That she wants to be invested in him. 
What could be so bad? 
NATALIE I gave my son up for adoption. I just wanted my life back. I was seventeen going on eighteen and I was selfish. My family, they didn't want to have nothing to do with me after that. So I hitched a ride out here. Figured I could make it as a showgirl. Ten years later... (shrugs; starts to break up) I like to think that if it happened when I was older -- with some guy I cared about -- maybe things would have been different. I think about my Little Joe. And, I do know he's better off. I'm convinced of that. 
She lowers her soda. Turns to Bernie. He studies her for a lengthy beat, stoic features. She wipes away her tears. Oh well, that's that. Bernie stands up. Looks around... focuses on the arcade clock. It reads 1:40 a.m. He turns to her... 
BERNIE So, you wanna go try your hand at the dime pitch? It's early still. 
Off Natalie's tear-filled features. She breaks into a laugh- cry... 
CUT TO: 
INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Bernie and Natalie making love. Slow, tender. Natalie doesn't make with the "Oh yeah, baby, you're doing great" encouragement. Just some low key moans. Bernie doesn't come too soon either. He outlasts Sinatra through several cuts. 
In contrast, we hear the hooker and her John howling away through the walls. An escalating ostinato of "Oh Baby's." 
Until Natalie reaches behind her and raps her fist against the wall. Big smile from both of them. 
EXT. LUCKY STAR MOTEL - DAY 
Bernie and Natalie returning from breakfast in Bernie's Buick. Bernie can't find a parking spot. Natalie climbs out, heads for the room. 
Natalie arrives at the room. She's about to stab the key in the lock, when she realizes the door is ajar. She hesitates for a moment, then pushes it open... 
INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY 
...to find Mikey and Charlene waiting on them. Charlene is puffing away on a Marlboro when Natalie enters. She immediately stubs it out. Rises, heads for the bathroom. 
CHARLENE I gotta go pee. I'm always peeing. 
She closes the door after her. 
NATALIE (to Mikey) How did you get in here? 
MIKEY I told the desk clerk Bernie was my old man. He let us wait inside. That a problem? 
NATALIE Bernie's looking for a parking space. 
MIKEY (chuckles) Shit. I musta taken the last one. 
Mikey steps up to Natalie. She hasn't moved from the doorway. Her dislike for Mikey is evident. 
MIKEY Tell me something, Natalie? Is he paying you? 
NATALIE Excuse me? 
MIKEY My old man, is he renting your ass? 'Cause otherwise I just don't get it. A loser like my pops in the company of some primo T & A. It don't compute. 
Natalie doesn't dignify Mikey with an answer. She stares him down unflinchingly. Mikey reaches out to Natalie's ear, "pulls" out a $20 dollar chip. 
MIKEY This enough to get me a taste? Family discount? 
He drops the chip down Natalie's cleavage. Natalie still doesn't react. Mikey reaches up, starts caressing her face. 
She flinches. Right then, the door swings open. Bernie enters. Mikey snaps his fingers and a rose appears in his hand. He extends it to Natalie. She ignores the gesture, steps aside. 
BERNIE Mikey... 
SHELLY What's going on, Nicky? 
NICKY I'm sorry we didn't say nothing about this earlier... but the deal wasn't closed yet. 
MARTY Don't worry, Shelly, you're gonna love it. 
Nicky gestures to Larry. Larry whisks the plastic sheet off the table... 
...to reveal an impressive SCALE MODEL of a redesigned SHANGRI- LA HOTEL AND CASINO. 
The model boasts huge snow-capped Himalayan peaks a la "Lost Horizon," surrounding a completely overhauled hotel and casino. A Matterhorn-like rollercoaster traverses the mountain top. Gold and marbled pillars, terraces and floors promise to raise the bar on Las Vegas opulence. We're looking at a hundred million dollar investment easy. 
NICKY The new Shangri-la Hotel and Casino. We break ground on her in six months. 
Off Shelly's startled expression -- 
NICKY I know what you're thinking? Where's she gonna go? You need space to expand, right? Well, that's been taken care of. We're now the proud owners of The Golden Frontier next door. 
LARRY (gesturing to the model) She's perfect. Three floors of gaming, IMAX theater, entertainment center, boutiques, restaurants, rollercoaster, you name it. She'll pay for herself in three years, and then it's easy money. 
NICKY Isn't she great, Shell? 
Shelly slowly approaches the model like a condemned prisoner mounting the scaffolding. 
We see his stoic features reflected in her sparkling swimming pool. 
SHELLY In "Lost Horizon," these people, their plane crashes in the Himalayas -- and they get rescued and taken to this Utopia in the mountains. Shangri- la. It's beautiful. The place is completely isolated. Untouched by the outside world. There's no war, no greed, no bullshit... Time is slowed down. People, they don't age. It's... paradise. That's what Shangri- la is. Paradise. 
LARRY Yeah, we've all seen the movie. And your point is? 
Shelly whirls around, yells: 
SHELLY You don't fuck with paradise! All'a ya! 
NICKY Hey, Jesus, c'mon, Shelly. We're not trying to fuck with it. We're trying to make it better. 
SHELLY How... how, Nicky, could it be any better? Right now it's perfect. It's the last of its kind. It's pure... and this. (points to the model; weary) ...this is just... it's a mockery. An insult. Trying to make something of it that it isn't. 
LARRY What are you talking about? It's right outta the movie? 
SHELLY Whose talking about a fuckin' movie? This ain't a fuckin' movie. This is my life. This is my house of worship. You people are shittin' on all that's sacred to me. 
A tense silence ensues. Nicky, Larry and Marty exchange looks. 
SHELLY (tired laugh) I got just one question? Where you gonna be when they decide to change it back? When the people, they come looking for the real Vegas, from before all this Epcott Center bullshit. Who's gonna it give it to them? You guys? I don't think so. You know who? The same fucks who started this shit in the first place. It's all gonna come full circle and bite you in the ass. Mark my words. 
Shelly falls silent. Massages his forehead. Shit, that wasn't the way to handle it. 
Nicky gets up from the sofa, walks over to Shelly, places a hand on his shoulder. Shelly flinches, but doesn't pull away. 
NICKY You make some good points, Shelly. Maybe it'll swing back the other way, who knows? But the smart money suggests we roll the dice. I'm not gonna bullshit you; naturally there's gonna be a lot of restructuring in the months to come, but I want you to know, you'll always have a place with us. 
SHELLY Where's that? Behind the bar? 
MARTY (laughs) Behind the bar, that's a good one. 
NICKY I think you should take some time and think things through. All this, it's a lot to digest, y'know. 
MARTY Speaking of things to digest, I'm starving. How's that buffet they got in the Valley of the Blue Moon? You recommend their prime rib, Shell? 
Shelly stares right through Marty. Choke and die on it, motherfucker. 
SHELLY It's food. 
NICKY Hey, my arteries can use a workout. Lead us to the trough, Shell. 
The players make their bets. 
SUBURBANITE Good now throw it before you fucking keel over and die, old man. 
Nicky slowly starts his routine defiantly. 
SUBURBANITE Happy birthday to me. Happy Birthday to me... Jesus, fuck, I'm another year older already. 
Nicky throws. 
STICKMAN OUT! Seven! Line away. 
Nicky claps his hands dealer style -- for effect -- and with a gentlemanly smile steps back from the table. Nicky's chips are quickly swept up by the croupier. 
SUBURBANITE Don't take it so hard, pops. Everybody craps out. 
Nicky locks eyes with the suburbanite. Then flashes a smile that suggests he's going to brush it off. He turns away from the table... 
SUBURBANITE Now go change your fucking Depends. 
Nicky makes like it's all in good jest. Yeah, that's real cute. He heads around the table to the suburbanite, holds out his hand as if to say: Hey, no hard feelings. The suburbanite shrugs. What the fuck? I was just playing with you, pops. He reaches for Nicky's hand... when Nicky suddenly headbutts him. Before anyone can react, Nicky starts laying into the suburbanite. The man goes down and. 
Nicky continues pummeling him... 
NICKY Who's laughing now, huh? ya fuckin! prick! C'mon, crack wise again... Ya fuckin' smooth as a Ken doll, no- dick, suburbanite scum. How's that for a game?! 
Shelly alerted to the fracas, rushes back to the table. He takes immediate control of the situation. Snaps his fingers at security. The suburbanite is whisked away with a pocketful of comps and a bruised ego. Shelly takes Nicky aside, attempts to calm him. Nicky keeps railing at Shelly: 
NICKY That ain't right, Shelly! Guy fucks up my game like that. Who the fuck does he think he is? 
SHELLY You're right. He's just a piece of shit. Forget about him. 
NICKY I thought this joint had more class. Used to be, we wouldn't even let bums like that in... 
Nicky catches himself. He looks at Shelly for a beat. 
There's an unspoken understanding between them. "The good old days." We see Bernie in the b.g., looking more than a bit shocked. 
INT. THE MAKAWAO BAR AND GRILL - NIGHT 
Bernie seated with Natalie. 
BERNIE This town... You know, Natalie, all I want to do is go some place where I can tell day from night. Where they got clocks on the wall. I can't breathe around here no more. Four days and I'm gone. I'm not even sure I can hold out that long. 
NATALIE (a beat) So where does that leave us? 
BERNIE A week ago, I didn't remember what it was like to have a woman's hands on me. I'm still pinching myself, expecting to wake-up from... (just blurts it out) Come with me, Natalie. I want you to come with me. 
NATALIE God, Bernie, that's... 
BERNIE I'm sorry. I didn't mean to spring that on you. 
NATALIE Bernie... I want to be with you. I do. But I don't know if I can leave with you. 
Bernie's look: Why? 
NATALIE I was working on a compatibility chart for the two of us. And it looks good, really, it does. 
BERNIE So, what's the problem? 
NATALIE That's with us here. In Vegas. 
Bernie's expression: Oh. 
NATALIE Maybe I was being presumptuous, 'cause I knew you were leaving... and I tried working it in different ways... It wasn't good, Bernie. I got scared. But that's just for now, for the immediate future. Once the planets realign, maybe a year from now... 
CHARLENE Come on all you's. Put a good thought in for our baby! 
As everyone dotes over Charlene, Mikey quickly swaps the dice before anyone can see. He throws. 
STICKMAN Six the hard way! 
Mikey is paid nine thousand by the croupier, as is Charlene. 
Bernie stands frozen. He doesn't bother trying to get any closer to the table. He knows it'll do no good. 
CHARLENE Oh my god, I just felt him kick! He knows. He knows you're all pulling for him. God bless you all. 
Natalie looks over at Charlene. Their eyes meet for a second. It's as though Natalie knows it's a scam and Charlene's acknowledging it. 
Mikey throws again. 
STICKMAN Six the hard way! Look out, we got a shooter! 
Another nine grand. Mikey's rail is nearly full. Charlene hops around awkwardly causing more distraction. 
Bernie is really sweating it out now. Then Shelly arrives. 
Larry is hot on his tail. 
SHELLY How much? 
BERNIE Eighteen thousand since I stepped up. I'm sorry, Shelly, I guess I've been hit and miss lately. 
Shelly's expression tells us he isn't so sure. Something definitely isn't kosher. 
As Charlene chatters on, Mikey switches the dice back. 
Shelly makes him. 
SHELLY (sotto) Fucking amateurs... 
Mikey throws... 
STICKMAN Seven out! Line away. 
The players and crowd, though disappointed, applaud Mikey's achievement. 
MIKEY (bowing) I thank you. My wife thanks you. My unborn child thanks you. 
Mikey moves his rail of chips to the felt. 
MIKEY Color me up will ya? 
Larry notices Shelly slipping on a pair of leather gloves. 
LARRY You've gotta be kidding me. (off Shelly's steely glare) That's not how I propose we handle it. We'll turn the matter over to the authorities. They'll be blacklisted, their credit ruined... 
SHELLY (gets in Larry's face) And then we'll give 'em both a lollipop for the ride home. Come watch and learn, Harvard. A little lesson on how to protect your investment -- the old school way. 
Shelly walks over to Mikey and Charlene, Larry lingering behind him. 
SHELLY Hey, that was some run you had back there. 
MIKEY Uh, thanks. Just lucky I guess. 
Mikey steals a tense glance at Charlene. She starts to fidget nervously. 
SHELLY Why don't we go do this in my office? I don't like to hand out all this amount of cash on the floor. 
Security (Tony and Lou) corrals the couple. Leads them away. 
CHARLENE Oh god, oh god... you gotta get me to the hospital... contractions... 
BERNIE Shelly, please help her. That's my grandson... 
SHELLY Hey, why don't we all break out the champagne? Lootz is about to become a granddaddy. (walks over to her) How you doin' there, sweetheart? Must hurt like crap, huh? 
CHARLENE (nods) Hurts so bad... 
SHELLY Yeah? 
Suddenly Shelly kicks Charlene in the belly! WHAM! She screeches out. 
NATALIE Oh God... 
BERNIE Jesus NOOOOO!!! 
Even Shelly's goons can't believe what they've just witnessed. Larry is aghast. Bernie rushes Shelly, starts raining blows on him. Shelly swats him off. He drops down next to the squirming girl, rips her sweater and blouse up over her stomach... 
...to reveal a mound of fake padding. He tears the padding away from her, throws it at Bernie. 
SHELLY Here! It's a fuckin' boy. Anyone got a cigar? 
The muscle start laughing it up. Relief. Larry emits a nervous giggle. Natalie's jaw hits the floor. Bernie takes a step back. He's about to go into serious shock. Charlene curls over, sobbing. 
SHELLY (to Bernie) You sure you still want to be good for it? Because if you want to change your mind, I don't blame you. 
Bernie looks over at Mikey. He stares up at his father, trembling. 
MIKEY I'll make it up to you, Pop, I swear... 
Bernie holds his son's gaze for a beat. He's almost tempted to... He just shrugs and nods at Shelly. 
BERNIE It's on me. 
SHELLY (shakes his head) That's the worst fucking call you ever made in your life. 
ON NATALIE at that moment. We can tell she agrees with Shelly... but thinks all the more of Bernie for it. That might even be love in her eyes. 
Shelly snatches his baseball bat up off the floor. Walks over to Mikey, and brings it down full force, pulverizing Mikey's left kneecap. Oh man, the scream... 
BERNIE What are you doing?! I thought we had -- 
SHELLY 150 G's buys their lives. This is just a little slap on the wrist to remember me by. 
Natalie turns her head. She's about to throw up. Larry watches, unflinchingly. Charlene is making with some serious pleading now. 
CHARLENE Oh god... it wasn't my idea. 
Shelly steps up to Charlene, tapping the base of the bat in the palm of his hand. He smiles reassuringly at her. 
SHELLY You know, motherhood is a beautiful thing. This... you made a mockery out of it. Maybe you'll get to experience it for real one day. 
CHARLENE (nods, sobbing) I want... to be a mother... please don't hurt me... 
SHELLY I'm not going to hurt you. 
Shelly turns his back on her. Charlene starts sobbing relief. They're not going to hurt her. It's going to be all right. Wrong. Shelly throws the bat to Lou. The heavy steps up to the plate (as we RACK FOCUS to Shelly walking away) -- CRUNCH!!! followed by the girl's SHRIEKS. Natalie buries her head in Bernie's shoulder. 
SHELLY (to Tony and Lou) Get 'em outta here. You ever see them in this joint again, kill 'em. 
SHELLY (to Bernie and Natalie) You two, you're still on shift. 
Shelly catches Larry's eye: I hope you were taking notes. 
INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
He glances over his shoulder... No Natalie. Just her impression in the sheets. And a note on her pillow. For a moment his heart stops. He conjures up the worst. Grabs up the note, unfolds it. 
We see a lipstick kiss and the words: HAVE A SPECTACULAR DAY! 
Bernie lets out a joyful whoop! Leaps out of bed... 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS - DAY 
CLOSE-UP: Trixie eating some tuna out of her bowl. We hear the record player needle drop on "Luck Be A Lady." Cut to: 
Bernie's feet gliding around the room... PAN UP to Bernie dancing with himself. He's positively aglow. He snatches up a salt shaker and sings along with Sinatra. It's true -- love makes the world go around. It obviously also gives life to dead plants, as evidenced by the small bulb that has sprung up overnight above his radiator. But we won't dwell on that. 
INT. SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO - DAY 
Bernie struts into the casino a changed man (still to the tune of "Luck Be a Lady"). Even his limp seems less pronounced as he greets fellow workers as they pass. 
He catches a glimpse of himself in a wall mirror. Maybe for the first time, he likes what he sees. In the reflection he notices Natalie smiling at him. He meets her eyes. She averts them quickly, keeps walking. 
INT. SHELLY'S OFFICE - THAT MOMENT 
Shelly watches Bernie from the video monitor. He appears less than delighted over Bernie's sunny disposition. He picks up the phone, dials. 
SHELLY (into phone) Yeah, it's me. Get Bernie over to crap table six. 
INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT 
Per usual, Bernie walks up to the bar, asks for a cup of coffee. Doris slides it over. 
BERNIE (looking around) Got any cre -- 
Before he can answer, Doris hands him a container of cream. 
A full container. Taken aback, he starts pouring it into his cup, when he hears a VOICE over the intercom: 
VOICE (V.O.) Lovett, party of six, your table is ready, Lovett, party of six. 
Bernie looks to Doris. 
BERNIE Duty calls. 
INT. CASINO - MONTAGE - MOMENTS LATER 
A -- Bernie arrives at a hundred dollar blackjack table just in time for the dealer to bust out. The crowd goes crazy! 
B -- Bernie takes a break by leaning up against the side of a slot machine. Suddenly, the woman playing it hits a jackpot. 
C -- Everywhere he seems to go, people continue to win. 
D -- Bernie, despite the spooky irony, can't help but smile as mountains of chips pile up on the tables. Shelly appears behind him. Not a happy camper. He gestures Bernie to follow him. 
INT. CASINO SLOTS AREA - NIGHT 
They head over to a section of slots. As they pass one of those huge million dollar slots, the FLOOR MANAGER cuts in front of them. 
FLOOR MANAGER Hey, Shelly, check it out. The new Mega-Million. I call her Marnie, 'cause she's one frigid broad. Sure, once in a while she'll flash you a bit of tit, but your chances of hitting a home run -- one in twenty million. Here, give her a shot... 
He hands Shelly a cup of quarters, takes off. Shelly looks to Bernie. He's trying to keep a lid on his anger. 
SHELLY (feeding Marnie quarters) You wanna tell me what's going on out there? 
BERNIE I don't know... 
Shelly pulls the lever. 
INT. SHANGRI-LA CASINO - NIGHT 
Bernie approaches some cocktail waitresses about to go off duty. 
BERNIE Hi. Any of you seen Natalie around? I'm supposed to give her a ride home. 
COCKTAIL WAITRESS #1 I think she left already. She wasn't feelin' too good. We been covering for her. 
Off Bernie's expression: Oh... 
EXT. LUCKY STAR MOTEL - NIGHT 
Bernie's Buick pulls into the lot. He parks, heads for his room. 
INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Bernie enters. Flips on the light. No Natalie. 
BERNIE (calls to the bathroom) Natalie? You in there? 
No answer. He heads over. Finds it empty. Concern spreads across his features. He glances around the room. Notices the closet wide open. Natalie's clothes missing. 
BERNIE (sotto) Natalie. 
That's when he catches sight of the note taped to the dresser mirror. He rushes over, rips it off. 
I'M SORRY BERNIE. I GUESS IT JUST WASN'T IN THE CARDS FOR US. TAKE CARE, NATALIE. 
Bernie slumps to the floor in disbelief. Starts to tremble. 
Then rocks back and forth, wracked by stifled sobs. Christ, make it stop hurting... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - LATER 
Bernie seated at the foot of the bed, drinking bourbon from a solitary glass. He's almost gone through an entire bottle. 
He glances down, notices a pair of Natalie's stockings sticking out from under the bed. He brings them up to his face. Breathes her in, only to exhale a sorry breath. 
INT. SHANGRI-LA CASINO - BAR - NIGHT 
Bernie stops at the bar for a cup of coffee. Doris starts to pour the cream... whoops... empty. Bernie shrugs. Par for the course. Time to go to work. 
INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT 
We see Bernie back in top form. Forget Mr. Cool, he's turned into Mr. Freeze with a vengeance. The high rollers are facing a nuclear winter on the floor thanks to Bernie. 
SERIES 
A -- A man with a fresh bankroll sits at a card table full of hubris. Bernie pulls up a chair next to him. 
B -- We see a crowd of players hovering over a busy craps table. The cheerful congregation turns sour as the dice are flung. Players groan as they jettison the table, leaving just Bernie... 
C -- We see a dealer pull a six card twenty one as players sit with twelves and thirteens. They sit stunned as their money is swept away. The same man with the hefty bankroll unclips the last of his green. He throws it over to the dealer to change in. 
D -- Larry, roaming the floor, is visibly disturbed by Bernie's cooling ability. It's something he can't quantify and it unsettles him. He glances up toward Shelly's observation window, knows the man is gloating. 
Good call. From behind the glass, Shelly lights up a stogey. Hint of a smile. You go, Bernie. 
INT. PARADISE LOUNGE - NIGHT 
Johnny Cappella rocks the house. PAN ACROSS to Shelly and Bernie seated in Shelly's booth. Shelly is in a jovial mood, while Bernie is a portrait of misery. 
BERNIE I want you to tell me the truth, Shelly. Did you say something to Natalie? Did you muscle her -- 
Which only seems to make it worse, as Bernie's presence spurs the player on to an even bigger win. 
Bernie has that goofy "my heart is full" look about him. 
Which can mean only one thing in Shelly's book. The man looks about ready to split an atom. We see Larry hovering nearby with a smug grin. Off of Shelly's enraged expression... 
EXT. LUCKY STAR MOTEL - DAY 
Lou's black Oldsmobile pulls into the parking lot. Shelly and the boys climb out, head for... 
EXT. THE MOTEL COURTYARD - DAY 
Natalie's sunning herself at the pool. The only other people around are a middle-aged couple and a young boy. 
Shelly (slipping on his leather gloves), followed by Lou and Tony, strides purposefully up to Natalie -- no hellos, nothing -- just grabs her by the hair... 
NATALIE Hey! Ouch! What are you...? 
He drags Natalie over to Bernie's room, kicks the door open, shoves Natalie inside... 
INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Shelly throws Natalie onto the bed. Lou closes the door and draws the blinds. 
NATALIE You got no fucking right...! 
SHELLY What did I tell you?! What did I fuckin' tell you?! 
NATALIE I tried... I couldn't... 
SHELLY I don't give a fuck! 
Shelly heads over to the closet, rips it open, pulls out a suitcase. He starts throwing Natalie's clothes into the case. 
SHELLY You're gone, sweetheart. History. Kiss paradise goodbye. 
NATALIE (hysterical) I can't leave! I won't! I love him. Doesn't that mean anything to you, you heartless fuck? 
Shelly stops packing. He grabs Natalie up off the bed, starts smacking her around. 
SHELLY Who the fuck do you think you are? You ain't nobody! I could make you disappear like this... (snaps his fingers) And nobody would ever notice you were gone. Nobody! 
NATALIE (yells) Bernie would! I got friends! You don't fuckin' own me. You got no right -- 
Shelly lifts Natalie up, throws her across the room into the dresser mirror. SMASH! She crumbles to the floor, glass showering her. Natalie grabs up a shard, rushes Shelly with it... 
NATALIE Fuck you! 
She slashes Shelly across the arm. Ouch, fuck! Before Tony and Lou can make a move, Shelly ensnares her wrist -- snaps it backwards -- AARRRRGGHHH!!! Shelly snatches up the shard, shoves her back on the bed. We see her terror reflected in the jagged glass against her cheek... 
SHELLY You fuckin' cunt... 
He slices her cheek open. 
Tony and Lou look on with mutual expressions: Shelly's getting a little carried away here. 
Shelly staggers to his feet... 
SHELLY You think that's bad? That's just a taste, bitch. You're still here when Bernie gets home and I'll finish the job. I'll cut you into so many fuckin' pieces, the vultures'll be trading on you for a month. 
Shelly reaches into his jacket, pulls out a wad of bills. 
Throws them at Natalie. 
SHELLY Here... go get yourself some cosmetic surgery. 
BERNIE We gotta get you to the hospital. We'll talk about this later. 
NATALIE Just tell me one thing, Bernie. Tell me there's gonna be a later. 
Bernie doesn't answer her. 
INT. HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM WAITING AREA - NIGHT 
FADE IN on Bernie's hunched over figure, waiting on Natalie. 
He tugs at his car keys as he wrestles with his emotions. 
Natalie's betrayal has finally sunken in. The man's in pain. 
His natural instinct is to just take off. Run. Fuck Natalie. Fuck Shelly. Fuck this whole goddamn town. 
Suddenly he looks up. A couple of people pass by in front of him... and then there she is. Standing a few feet away, face patched-up, arms clutching herself, not sure whether to approach him or not. 
The sight of her just breaks Bernie's heart. He stands slowly, legs like jelly -- and in that instant it's all so clear to him. He walks over, forgiveness in his eyes, contrition in hers. 
She tries to say something. He shakes his head. 
BERNIE Ssshh. 
They embrace with an intensity that threatens to merge their atoms into a single being. 
INT. BERNIE'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT 
Bernie drives down a quiet Vegas street. It's spooky. 
Almost too quiet. All the lights are green as they cruise into the night. 
NATALIE Tell me again, Bernie. Tell me it's all gonna be okay. 
BERNIE Everything's gonna be fine. This is our time. This is you and me and we're going for it. 
Natalie leans over and kisses him. As she does so, she catches sight of her face in the mirror. Starts to tear up. 
BERNIE You look in the mirror, you don't like what you see, don't believe it. You look in my eyes. That's the only mirror you gonna need. Look in my eyes, Natalie. 
She looks into Bernie's eyes. Sees the most beautiful girl in the world. Tears roll down her cheeks. 
BERNIE I love you. Marry me? 
Off Natalie's startled reaction... 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HOLY ROLLER WEDDING CHAPEL - NIGHT 
A NEON SIGN READS: "HOLY ROLLER WEDDING CHAPEL. OPEN 24 HOURS." 
BOOM DOWN as Bernie carries Natalie out of the chapel, their lips fused together. 
INT. BERNIE'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT 
Bernie and Natalie burn down the highway. The lights of the big city just a glimmer in the rearview. 
Up ahead, a billboard reads: THE SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO. TAKE A GAMBLE ON PARADISE. 
TIGHT on Bernie. His expression turns grim. Natalie picks up on it. She shakes her head. Silently pleading: Bernie, no. 
Bernie tries to shrug it off. But the spectre of Shelly sits firmly on his shoulder. There's no escaping him. We see Bernie fighting it. Losing. SHIT! 
In the next instant, Bernie pulls a quick U-turn across the middle shoulder, starts back toward Vegas. 
BERNIE (a hoarse whisper) Why? Why, Shelly? 
SHELLY Because you never give up a good thing, Bernie. You are a good thing. The best fuckin' cooler there ever was. And I need him back. 
BERNIE He ain't never comin' back. 
SHELLY That's a dead man talking. 
BERNIE I'm through with this joint, Shelly. Natalie and me, we just got married. We're outta here. I'll get a job out there in the world. Send you half my paycheck every month. Make good on my obligations. 
SHELLY (gets in Bernie's face) You try to walk on me, Bernie, and I'll fuckin' bury you. The both of you. 
BERNIE I don't think so. 
Shelly's expression: Oh yeah? 
BERNIE You whack me, then Bernie Lootz ain't the world's biggest loser no more. That honor's gonna fall upon you, Shelly. And maybe you had it all along. 
SHELLY What the fuck? Me? I'm the loser? 
BERNIE What you got? What do you got in your life besides this joint? 
SHELLY What the fuck more do I need? 
BERNIE You got nothin', Shelly. This place -- your legacy -- it's a mirage. You turn your back and it don't even exist. There's no day, there's no night, it's all just one big fuckin' blur and it don't count for nothin'! 
Shelly looks to Tony and Lou: 
SHELLY You believe this fuckin' guy? 
Bernie gets eye-to-eye with Shelly. A first. 
BERNIE I feel real sorry for you. Yeah, you got this fear of germs thing. But it goes deeper than that. You can't get close to no one. On an emotional level. You're the worst kind of gambler there ever was: too scared to put his chips on the table. Too scared to open his heart... to extend any real kinda friendship. Always afraid it's gonna end out in the desert. Well, sweet fuckin' dreams, pal, 'cause I'm out and if that's where it ends, that's where it ends. 
Bernie turns his back on Shelly, strides over to the door. 
SHELLY That's a real heartfelt speech, Lootz. All that Jimmy Stewart in ya face intensity. You almost sold me. (massages his throat) Man, I've got a fucking lump in my throat. (a beat) But it still don't change things. You bail on me without making good on my 150 G's and I'm gonna be forced to close the books on you. You and the broad. You leave me no choice. 
Bernie turns, looks at Shelly. Shelly's dead serious. They hard stare each other for a beat. Bernie doesn't say anything. At least, not out loud. His eyes do all the talking: "I guess you leave me no choice either." HOLD on Bernie's steely resolve. 
INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT 
This could be the opening of the film -- Bernie standing with his back to us, facing the gold elevator doors. Murky reflection. The floor lights ascending fast... 
The doors open and the soundtrack goes SILENT. SLOW PUSH IN on him as he takes in the action -- a gladiator about to enter the Coliseum. Something comes alive in his eyes. A spark of determination. This is not the expression of a loser. CLOSE-UP as his foot steps onto the casino floor -- 
An explosion of amplified CASINO WALLA shatters the previous silence. 
INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT 
We follow Bernie as he wanders through the casino like he's done a thousand times -- but this time with conviction. 
INT. CASINO FLOOR - CRAPS TABLES - NIGHT 
Bernie steps up to an empty table, throws down the whole three grand onto the felt. 
BERNIE Change only... 
The CREW working the table stop down as they realize who it is. The table is dead. Bernie couldn't be needed. The croupier slowly gathers up the green, hands it to the boxman. 
CROUPIER Check change three thousand. 
The boxman counts the cash. 
BOXMAN This a pleasure cruise, Bernie? 
Shelly sits alone in his office, nursing a glass of Scotch, listening to some scratchy Chet Baker on the turntable. He looks pre-occupied. Almost melancholic. Bernie's assessment of his life having hit home. 
Suddenly the door is thrown open. It's Tony... 
TONY Shelly, take a look at number 4. 
INT. CASINO - CRAPS TABLES - MOMENTS LATER 
Shelly wanders up slowly to find Bernie at the center of the crowd. He steps behind the table into the casino pit to get a closer look. 
SHELLY (to the boxman) How much is he up? 
The boxman looks up nervously. 
BOXMAN Around three hundred thousand. 
Shelly mouths the words under his breath. 
SHELLY Why didn't one of you fucking geniuses call me? 
BOXMAN We tried. You weren't picking up. Besides, it was Bernie. 
The game resumes. 
STICKMAN Alright. We're coming out folks, hands high... 
Bernie stops. 
BERNIE Wait! 
Everybody quiets down to listen. 
BERNIE Color me up a hundred fifty thousand. (beat) And give it to him. 
Bernie points to Shelly standing in the pit. The crowd watches the drama play out. 
BERNIE That's what I owe you, Shelly. There it is. We're square. (to the table) Let it be known, Bernie Lootz lives up to his obligations. 
The boxman colors up a hundred fifty thousand in chips, lays them out on the table. He counts it and claps his hands together for the cameras. 
BOXMAN One hundred fifty thousand, coming in. 
Shelly stands motionless. Staring into Bernie's eyes. The whole crowd watches. After what seems like an eternity, Shelly nods. Then the Boxman feeds the chips in with the others. A moment later, we can nary tell they were ever gone. 
Larry appears next to Shelly. Nicky and Marty watching from the sidelines -- dour expressions. 
LARRY What's the matter with you? He's one of ours and he's taking us to the fucking cleaners. 
SHELLY Lootz's off the clock. As long as he's off the clock, he's free to play. Just like every other schmuck in this joint. 
LARRY It smells wrong. I'm shutting him down. He's not leaving here with a dime -- 
Shelly suddenly jabs Larry in the throat with the tips of his fingers. Larry gasps, starts to cave. Shelly keeps him upright, escorts him to a nearby men's room. Nicky and Marty looking on in amazement. 
INT. MEN'S ROOM - NIGHT 
The door flies open, Larry catapults into frame. OOF! 
Bounces off the wall. Shelly's right behind him. He drags Larry to his feet. Slams him into the wall again -- gets right up in his face. 
SHELLY Now you listen real good, you Harvard turd. Lootz is on the up-and-up. He leaves here tonight with whatever he comes out with. You so much as touch a hair on his head and I'll fucking wallpaper this joint with your ass. Muted tones, right? (slams him hard) What's that? I don't hear nothing. Wait a minute -- yeah, now I hear it. 
Blended in at a subsonic level. 
Some kinda mantra: pain, pain, pain. 
He doesn't answer. Just starts up the car... 
INT. SHELLY'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
On the surveillance monitors: the epidemic continues -- players winning at every table. The Shangri-la's been wiped out. There's no way they can cover this amount of winning action. 
PANNING ACROSS to Shelly. Defeated. The phone rings incessantly in the b.g. Shelly ignores it. 
Lou pokes his head into the office: 
LOU Want me to get that, Shelly? 
Shelly doesn't respond. He reaches into his desk drawer for that bottle and a glass. Is about to pour himself a shot... 
Fuck it. Pushes the glass aside. Takes it straight from the bottle. The phone keeps ringing... 
On the scale model of the newly proposed Shangri-la. Hold on it. 
WHAM! A chair enters frame, shatters "paradise." 
WIDER: Shelly trashing the model with a vengeance. Kicking the debris around the office. 
Drenched in sweat, Shelly staggers over to his desk. Swats the empty gin bottle to the floor. Picks up his disinfectant spray, gives his desk one last wipedown. Immaculate. 
Stands, walks out... 
INT. BERNIE'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT 
We see the lights of the city receding in Bernie's rearview mirror. Once outside of the city limits Bernie pulls the car over. 
NATALIE What are you stopping for? 
Bernie throws open his door... 
BERNIE I think I'm gonna... 
Throw up. And he does. It's as if he's choking up the entire city. Everything that's bad about it. Finally, he pulls himself back into the car. Slams the door. 
Natalie touches his cheek, a reassuring look in her eyes. 
Suddenly, he's smiling. He opens his coat and a huge wad of cash tumbles out. He throws it up into the air. Natalie almost chokes with surprise. 
BERNIE Bahamas, here we come, baby. 
She throws her arms around him... 
Suddenly an EXPLOSION OF LIGHT! A flashlight. In the hand of a MOTORCYCLE COP. He raps on the window... 
COP Step out of the car please. 
BERNIE (lowers the window) What's the problem, officer? 
The cop runs the flashlight over the bundles of cash littering the car interior. 
COP Just step out of the car, please. Both of you. 
Bernie and Natalie exchange unsettled looks. The cop lowers his hand to his gun. Bernie nods at Natalie. They climb out. He directs them off to the side. Shines his light in their faces. 
BERNIE If my driving... if I was going a little fast -- I was just over excited, officer. See, we just had a big win at the Shangri-la -- 
COP You didn't win nothing. 
The cop pulls out his revolver, trains it on them. 
INTERCUT WITH: 
