CORIOLANUS 
Written by 
William Shakespeare 
Screenplay by 
John Logan 
INT. DARKENED ROOM - DAY 
The blade of a knife. 
Pulled from its sheath, intricate tribal etchings on the blade catching the light. 
The blade being pulled across a sharpening stone. Swoosh- swoosh-swoosh. Rhythmic. A well-practiced hand. A muscular, tattooed arm. 
The blade held up. Razor sharp. The glow of a TV in the darkened room is the only illumination. We see images on the TV: 
GLOBAL AND URBAN STRIFE slums barricades poverty starvation demonstrations repression refugee camps barbed wire prisons riot police tear gas violence... 
Then the images settle to now, BREAKING NEWS: FOOD RIOTS IN ROME. Images of a protest march. A crowd filling the streets. Soldiers moving into position. We see placards: "DOGS MUST EAT," "MEAT WAS MADE FOR MOUTHS." The man sharpening the knife watches the images. His eyes are cold. Almost disinterested. 
Then he stops. Frozen in mid-stroke. Something on the TV suddenly rivets him. His eyes no longer cold. 
The TV shows one of the soldiers, a high-ranking officer. Imperious. Giving orders. We will come to know this is a man as Caius Martius -- Coriolanus. 
TULLUS AUFIDIUS, the man sharpening the knife, gazes at the image on the screen. 
He leans forward. Emerging from the darkness. We see his face. 
He is a handsome and imposing figure, magnetic in his personality. Charismatic, yes, but also neurotic and edgy. Uncomfortable in his own skin. Some demons there. He watches the face of Caius Martius on the TV screen. 
Then he puts the point of his knife against the screen. Against Caius Martius' heart. Holds it there Presses the point against the screen Muscles knotting in his forearm As if he could thrust the knife through the screen and into the heart of Caius Martius... His nemesis His dark angel. Sharp cut to-- 
EXT. ROME - STREET - DAY 
We move with an intense woman down the street. She is nervous. Checks she is not being followed. She is TAMORA, an extreme figure on the political landscape. To the Roman elite she is a dangerous anarchist -- to her supporters she is an ardent patriot and democrat. As she moves, we take in Rome. It might be Mexico City. Or Chechnia. Or El Salvador. Or Detroit. Or Baghdad. Or London. This Rome is a modern place. It is our world right now: immediately recognizable to us. Elements of classical architecture loom over decay. Monolithic modernism and brave public monuments are lost in a sea of brazen advertising billboards, neon shopping plazas and drab super-highways. Splendor and squalor sit side-by-side. It is a volatile, dangerous world. William Shakespeare's Rome. She comes to a graffiti-covered apartment building. Looks around. Enters. 
INT. APARTMENT - DAY 
A secret political meeting in a police state. Tension. Cigarette smoke hangs in the air. Men and women gathered, hushed and urgent tones. A cell meeting of the political opposition, the resistance. A TV shows the food marches elsewhere in the city. The gathering storm. CASSIUS is a leading proletariat organizer: 
CASSIUS Before we proceed any further, hear me speak -- You are all resolved rather to die than to famish? The others agree. They are not wild-eyed radicals. They are normal people, from all walks of life. You and me. 
CASSIUS First, you know Caius Martius is chief enemy to the people. A voice from the back of the room: 
TAMORA Let us kill him. The others turn. Tamora, just entering, pulls off her coat, joins the others: 
TAMORA And we'll have corn at our own price. Is it a verdict? Some are unsure. She is too extreme for some. 
CASSIUS 
(PRESSING SLIGHTLY) We are accounted poor citizens, the patricians good The leanness that afflicts us, the object of our misery, our sufferance, is a gain to them. Let us revenge this with our sticks ere we become rakes! I speak this in hunger for bread, not in thirst for revenge. A woman, a YOUNG MOTHER, protests: 
Tamora, Cassius and the others are now in the midst of the protest march. The crowd has become a mob, with a life and will of its own. The crowd surges forward-- They round a corner and suddenly stop-- For a formidable sight awaits them- 
RIOT POLICE. Rows of black uniforms. Full riot gear with plexiglass shields and dangerous truncheons. 
A few soldiers on horses as well. The crowd starts and shifts nervously, unsure how to proceed. Should they launch themselves against this monolithic military force? A long, tense beat. Then... One of the horsemen trots forward... He rides a beautiful white horse... It is CAIUS MARTIUS. (Soon to be given the honorary title Coriolanus.) He is intense and patrician. Uncompromising. A man of steel. A soldier. He wears a crisp, military uniform. From his position on the horse, Martius looks over the rioters... His gaze is ice... A long beat... Then he dismounts... He slowly walks to the unruly mob... With no hesitation, unarmed... He stops before them... And speaks with absolute disdain. 
MARTIUS What's the matter, you dissentious rogues, That, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion, Make yourselves scabs? 
CASSIUS 
(SARCASTIC) We have ever your good word. 
MARTIUS 
(SNAPS) He that will give good words to thee will 
FLATTER Beneath abhorring. The crowd is hushed. Taking in his every word. 
We note a TV news crew has moved into position and is filming eagerly. Some in the crowd film with cell phone cameras. Streaming video. We intercut some of these perspectives. 
MARTIUS What would you have, you curs? He that trusts to you, Where he should find you lions, finds you 
HARES; Where foxes, geese. He walks along the front of the crowd. Some are frightened by the great Martius. Some are even awed. Others glare at him with loathing. 
MARTIUS Who deserves greatness Deserves your hate... Hang ye! Trust ye? With every minute you do change your mind, And call him noble that was now your hate, Him vile that was your garland. He continues along the crowd, his cold eyes taking in face 
AFTER FACE: 
MARTIUS What's the matter, That in these several places of the city You cry against the noble Senate, who, Under the gods, keep you in awe, which 
ELSE Would feed on one another? He stops and glares at the mob with seething anger. He climbs back onto his horse. Stares down at them. 
AN ULTIMATUM: 
MARTIUS Go GET YOU HOME, YOU FRAGMENTS! A tense beat. The riot police shift nervously. The crowd is unsure. The TV news crew films everything. 
Cassius looks around. He sees the police ready with tear gas. He sees old men, women and children in his crowd. He doesn't want this to explode. He exchanges a few whispers works with Tamora. Word is passed and the crowd begins to disperse. Some run off in a panic. Others walk away. The danger has passed. Senator Menenius, who has been watching from nearby, gestures for Martius to join him. He is an old family friend of Martius' as well as his mentor and chief political advisor. Menenius is relieved bloodshed has been avoided. 
MENENIUS These are almost thoroughly persuaded; For though abundantly they lack discretion, Yet are they passing cowardly. 
MARTIUS They are dissolved. Hang 'em. Senator Menenius watches the crowd. Disturbed. 
MENENIUS I would they were abed. 
MARTIUS I would they were in Tiber. They move off. 
INT. DARKENED ROOM - DAY 
We see the TV image of Martius railing at the people from 
BEFORE: 
MARTIUS 
(ON TV) Go GET YOU HOME, YOU FRAGMENTS! Tullus Aufidius is leaning in. Watching so closely. From his POV: the pixilated close-up of Martius' face on the screen. He runs his knife blade back and forth. Turns it in the light; the reflection of Martius' face distorting as he rotates the blade. 
THEN: 
VOLUMNIA I pray you, daughter, sing, or express yourself in a more comfortable sort. If my son were my husband, I should more freely rejoice in that absence wherein he won honor than in the embracements of his bed where he would show most love. She moves across the room to fetch a cigarette. She moves, always, with stately grace. She walks past a series of photographs. They tell the story of Martius' life: the happy baby; the stern dead father; the rigid young military cadet; the formal wedding; the restrained and unsmiling adult. In the photos we sense a transformation: innocent boy to experienced, severe looking soldier. Volumnia is present in most of the pictures. 
AS: 
VOLUMNIA When yet he was but tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, I, considering how honor would become such a person, was pleased to let him seek danger where he was like to find fame. She lights her cigarette. 
VOLUMNIA To a cruel war I sent him, from whence he returned, his brows bound with oak. 
VIRGILIA But had he died in the business, madam, how then? 
VOLUMNIA Then his good report should have been my son. (she rivets Virgilia) Had I a dozen sons I had rather have eleven die nobly for their country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action. A MAID enters. She speaks to Volumnia (the true mistress of the house) not to Virgilia. 
MAID Madam, Senator Menenius is come to visit you. 
VOLUMNIA Tell Menenius we are fit to bid him welcome. The Maid goes. 
VIRGILIA Beseech you, give me leave to retire myself. 
VOLUMNIA Indeed, you shall not! She turns off the TV and goes to a bar to mix drinks. She mixes the drinks aggressively, strangely inspired by the discussion of war: 
VOLUMNIA Methinks I hear hither your husband's 
DRUM; Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call 
THUS: 
(MORE) 
VOLUMNIA (CONT'D) "Come on, you cowards! You were got in fear, Though you were born in Rome." His bloody 
BROW Then wiping, forth he goes. 
VIRGILIA His bloody brow? 0 Jupiter, no blood... 
VOLUMNIA Away, you fool! It more becomes a man Than gold his trophy. 
VIRGILIA Heavens bless my lord from fell Auf idius ... 
VOLUMNIA He'll beat Aufidius' head below his knee And tread upon his neck. Senator Menenius enters, he is comfortable in this house and an old ally of Volumnia's. 
MENENIUS My ladies both, good day to you. Volumnia hands him one of the drinks she has been mixing: a perfect martini. She knows how he takes his drink. She is not above flirting with him when it suits her ends. 
MENENIUS How do you both? 
(TO VIRGILIA) And how does your little son? 
VIRGILIA I thank you, sir; well, good. 
VOLUMNIA He had rather play with swords and hear a drum than look upon his schoolmaster. 
MENENIUS On my word, the father's son! He and Volumnia laugh. Menenius has sensed Virgilia's tension. Tries to cheer her: 
MENENIUS Come, I must have you play the idle housewife with me this afternoon. 
In the face of the crossfire, the Roman soldiers start 
FALLING BACK-- Martius refuses to yield -- pushing and shoving his men toward the burning bus -- screaming in fury over the noise: 
MARTIUS You souls of geese, That bear the shapes of men! PLUTO AND 
HELL! All hurt behind! Backs red, and faces 
PALE With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home, Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave 
THE FOE 
AND MAKE MY WARS ON YOU! An EXPLOSION -- dirt and brick shards slash across Martius' face -- blood-- This only pushes his fury to white rage-- 
MARTIUS Look to it. Come on! 
FOLLOW ME! He leaves his soldiers behind-- Moves alone to the burning bus and fights his way through the 
FLAMES-- Martius is in his own world now. He doesn't even realize he is alone. He has become a sort of killing machine. A shark moving through the ocean. Ruthless and efficient. We become the warrior. From Martius' POV: We move through disorienting curtains of smoke... Continue down the street... Firing a heavy machine gun... Volscian soldiers contort and die, torn to pieces by the bullets... The heavy machine gun is empty, we drop it and use a sidearm, firing strategic shots... Volscian soldiers dart up -- fire -- and die... We keep moving steadily forward... Shadowy shapes moving nearby, we fire. Killing civilians. The fortunes of war... 
Strange surreal images. We smash into a house. An OLD MAN crouches, terrified, in a corner. He reaches forward. He is offering us water. An act of kindness amid the carnage... We move on... Panicked civilians, scattering in terror... Volscian soldiers rush us, attacking, we slam them aside... We duck down, roll under a car, emerge and fire... More Volscians die... We continue forward... Then the pistol is empty, we drop it and pull a machete-like knife... Still moving relentlessly forward... Slashing and killing... Hand-to-hand now... Carnage. 
EXT. CORIOLES-ALLEY - DAY 
Aufidius and his aides are racing down an alley, trying to get to Martius-- Roman fire stops them-- They return fire as they divert down another alley, trying for a better strategic position, running flat out-- 
EXT. CORIOLES - LATER 
Titus and the soldiers are still pinned down at the burning bus. Two soldiers race back to Titus to report, they dive for cover. 
TITUS What is become of Martius? 
SOLDIER 1 Slain, sir, doubtless. 
SOLDIER 2 He is himself alone, To answer all the city. 
TITUS Thou art lost, Martius... Titus has no time to mourn. He looks over the hopeless situation. Scanning the rooftops, windows and shops. Then he stops He sees something Past the burning bus Through the smoke and flames... He glimpses a ghostly figure... 
TITUS Who's yonder, That does appear as he were flayed? 0 gods! He has the stamp of Martius. It is indeed Martius. A shocking sight. Drenched head-to-toe in blood. His face splattered with gore. His eyes wild. Lost in something like rapture. 
MARTIUS Come I too late?! Come I too late?! 
TITUS Ay, if you come not in the blood of others, But mantled in your own. Martius laughs wildly and embraces Titus, who comes away splattered with blood: 
MARTIUS 0, let me clip ye In arms as sound as when I wooed, in 
HEART As merry as when our nuptial day was done! SUDDENLY -- a deafening explosion -- and RPG EXPLODING from nearby. Then gunfire. Bullets shatter windows. The Volscians are attacking again. The Romans instantly begin diving for cover and taking up 
DEFENSIVE POSITIONS-- 
Martius scans the location. Sees the attack is coming from an old Hilton hotel. Now pockmarked with bullets and artillery shells. Most of the windows shattered. This is the Volscian stronghold. The last stand. He sees flashes of Volscian soldiers moving on the roof and balconies, and snipers firing from windows. There is an open plaza, littered with bodies and debris, in front of the hotel. Martius stops scanning with his binoculars-- Sees Aufidius moving in the hotel, directing the battle-- 
MARTIUS There is the man of my soul's hate-- 
AUFIDIUS-- Piercing our Romans. 
LEVEL-- 
THEN-- Another EXPLOSION rocks the hotel-- Part of the roof COLLAPSES-- Concrete SLAMS down-- A cloud of smoke, dust and debris obscures everything- Martius is tossed violently to the ground in the action-- Aufidius is pulled away by several of his men. They drag him to safety. Roman soldiers fire after them. The sound is deafening in the confined garage. But Aufidius and his comrades disappear into a cloud of dust. Gone. Martius glares after him. Wipes blood from his eyes. 
INT. CORIOLES-HOTEL-LOBBY - NIGHT 
The hotel lobby has been turned into a hastily assembled emergency triage station. The moaning and screaming of the injured are constant. Roman medics attend to the wounded: administering IVs; arranging evacuations; performing battlefield surgery. Martius sits, dried blood covering his face, looking over his injured and dying soldiers as a medic stitches up a wound in his arm. Titus is with him. General Cominius enters with several attending officers, going to congratulate Martius. 
COMINIUS If I should tell thee over this thy day's work, Thou would not believe thy deeds. Martius is barely listening. His attention is on a YOUNG SOLDIER across the room. The Young Soldier is injured, pale and thirsty. Dying. 
COMINIUS But I'll report it Where Senators shall mingle tears with 
(MORE) 
COMINIUS (CONT'D) 
SMILES; Where great patricians shall attend and shrug, In the end admire and say: "We thank the 
GODS Our Rome hath such a soldier." 
MARTIUS 
(SHIFTING PAINFULLY) Pray now, no more. My mother, When she does praise me, grieves me. I have done as you have done - that's what I can; Induced as you have been - that's for my country. Martius continues to look at the poor dying soldier. 
TITUS Rome must know The value of her own. It were a 
CONCEALMENT Worse than a theft, To hide your doings. 
MARTIUS I have some wounds upon me, and they 
SMART To hear themselves remembered. The surgeon finishes stitching Martius' arm. Starts to clean another wound. 
COMINIUS Should they not, Well might they fester against 
INGRATITUDE Too modest are you. Impatient, Martius rises, painfully and slowly. He takes his canteen and crosses to the Young Soldier. Gives his canteen to the boy. The Young Soldier drinks. His deep, sad eyes gaze up at Martius. Martius watches as... The Young Soldier dies. The light goes from his eyes. His head hangs awkwardly. His boyish face is leaden. Martius suddenly finds himself exhausted. Morally and physically spent. 
MARTIUS 
(TO COMINIUS) I will go wash; And when my face is fair, you shall 
PERCEIVE Whether I blush or no Howbeit, thank you. Martius stares at the dead soldier. 
EXT. CORIOLES-STREET - NIGHT 
Aufidius and some of his Volscian soldiers, bloody and filthy, are on foot. They are moving through the outskirts of Corioles, leaving the city. Exhausted after the long and failed battle. Fires burn from blasted shops and homes. The Romans have clearly laid waste to this part of the city. There is a minivan stopped ahead of them. Bullets holes everywhere. Bodies inside. They walk to it. Aufidius looks in. A dead family. Father, mother, kids in the back. Bloody toys on the floor of the minivan. Roman atrocities. Aufidius gazes at the bodies. His face hardens. He whispers to himself: 
AUFIDIUS Five times, Martius, I have fought with thee; so often hast thou beat me, And would do so, I think, should we 
ENCOUNTER As often as we eat. He becomes aware some of his men are looking at him, disturbed at his fervor. 
AUFIDIUS 
FOR WHERE I thought to crush him in an equal force, True sword to sword, I'll stab him some way, Or wrath -- or craft -- may get him. 
SOLDIER He's the devil. 
Volumnia, Virgilia and Menenius are hurrying down a corridor, excited. All are well-dressed, for an important public event. 
VOLUMNIA Honorable Menenius, my boy Martius approaches! For the love of Juno, let's go. 
MENENIUS Is he not wounded? He was wont to come home wounded. 
VIRGILIA 0, no, no, no... 
VOLUMNIA 
(VICTORIOUSLY) 0, he is wounded! I thank the gods for it. 
MENENIUS So do I too -- if it be not too much. Brings a victory in his pocket, the wounds become him. Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly? 
VOLUMNIA Titus Lartius says they fought together, but Aufidius got off. 
VIRGILIA In truth, there's wondrous things spoke of him. Gods grant them true. 
VOLUMNIA (an exhalation of scorn) True?! 
MENENIUS I'll be sworn they are true. Where is he wounded? Volumnia and Menenius now gleefully add up her son's wounds like accountants -- or campaign managers. 
VOLUMNIA In the shoulder and in the left arm. There will be large scars to show the people, when he shall stand for his place He received in the repulse of Tarquin seven hurts in the body. 
MENENIUS One in the neck, and two in the thigh - there's nine that I know. 
VOLUMNIA He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five wounds upon him. 
MENENIUS Now it's twenty-seven. Every gash was an enemy's grave. We focus on Volumnia's face as she thinks about her son. 
VOLUMNIA 
BEFORE HIM He carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears. Death, that dark spirit, in his nervy arm 
DOTH LIE; Which, being advanced, declines, and then men die. They hurry to the stop of a grand staircase, where there are people waiting... 
INT. SENATE-STAIRS - DAY 
They join Cominius and other dignitaries at the top of a majestic stairway. An honor guard of Roman soldiers in dress uniforms are waiting. Roman flags flutter. All very ceremonial. Martius enters below. The honor guard snaps to attention. Martius -- hereafter called Coriolanus -- slowly begins to cross to the steps. We see that walking is very difficult for him. His wounds are severe and every movement is agony. He has paid a steep price for his victory. Photographers flash photos and a TV crew film the ceremony. Coriolanus finally reaches the steps leading up. He takes a breath and slowly begins to climb the stairs, each step a challenge. Volumnia looks down on him. Unmoved by his pain. Virgilia is distraught. As Coriolanus slowly hauls himself up the last few steps, General Cominius speaks into a cluster of microphones and addresses the press: 
COMINIUS Be it known, As to us, to all the world, that Caius 
MARTIUS Wears this war's garland And from this time, For what he did before Corioles, call him, With all the applause and clamor of the host, "Caius Martius Coriolanus!" 
(TO MARTIUS) Bear the addition nobly ever! The soldiers salute in a grim sort of chant: 
SOLDIERS Caius Martius Coriolanus! Coriolanus has reached the podium. An awkward beat. Cominius gestures for him to speak into the microphones. He tersely does so: 
CORIOLANUS No more of this; it does offend my heart. Pray now, no more. An awkward silence. Cominius elegantly tries to covers the 
MOMENT: 
COMINIUS Look, sir, your mother. 
CORIOLANUS 
(TO CASSIUS) You know the cause, sir, of my standing here. 
CASSIUS We do, sir. Tell us what hath brought you to it. 
CORIOLANUS Mine own desert. 
TAMORA Your own desert? 
CORIOLANUS Ay, but not mine own desire. 
TAMORA How not your own desire? 
CORIOLANUS No, it was never my desire yet to trouble the poor with begging. 
CASSIUS You must think, if we give you anything, we hope to gain by you. 
CORIOLANUS Well then, I pray, your price of the Consulship? 
WAR VET The price is to ask it kindly. 
CORIOLANUS Kindly, sir, I pray, let me have it. I have wounds to show you, which shall be yours in private Your good voice, sir. What say you? 
WAR VET 
(IMPRESSED) You shall have it, worthy sir. 
CORIOLANUS A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices begged. I have your alms. Adieu. Business done, so he thinks, Coriolanus crisply moves on. Cassius is not convinced. 
CASSIUS But this is something odd. Coriolanus continues on. He sees a large JAMAICAN WOMAN with her CHILDREN, carrying plastic grocery bags, talking to a SHOPKEEPER. He goes to them: 
CORIOLANUS Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your voices that I may be Consul. 
JAMAICAN WOMAN You have deserved nobly of your country, and you have not deserved nobly. 
CORIOLANUS Your enigma? 
JAMAICAN WOMAN You have been a scourge to her enemies; you have been a rod to her friends You have not indeed loved the common people. 
CORIOLANUS You should account me the more virtuous that I have not been common in my love Therefore, beseech you, I may be Consul. 
SHOPKEEPER We hope to find you our friend, and therefore give you our voices heartily. 
JAMAICAN WOMAN You have received many wounds for your country. 
CORIOLANUS I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no farther. 
JAMAICAN WOMAN The gods give you joy, sir, heartily! Coriolanus is warming to the task, it's easier than he thought. He moves to a central, open area and declares 
PUBLICLY: 
CORIOLANUS Your voices! For your voices I have 
FOUGHT; Watched for your voices; for your voices 
BEAR Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice 
Coriolanus launches himself into the crowd with blistering 
ANGER: 
CORIOLANUS My nobler friends, I crave their pardons. For the mutable, rank-scented crowd, Let them regard me as I do not flatter, And therein behold themselves. I say again, In soothing them, we nourish against our 
SENATE The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition, Which we ourselves have ploughed for, sowed, and scattered, By mingling them with us! 
MENENIUS Well, no more! 
TITUS No more words, we beseech you-- The mob has surrounded them all by now. The police are getting nervous, eyes darting uneasily from the unruly crowd to the volatile men. This all has the potential of sparking to violence. We note a TV news crew moving into position, covering the action. Others film with cell phone cameras. We intercut some of this footage. 
BRUTUS (to Coriolanus, provoking) You speak of the people As if you were a god to punish, not A man of their infirmity. 
SICINIUS It were well we let the people know it. 
CORIOLANUS Were I as patient as the midnight sleep, By Jove, it would be my mind! 
SICINIUS It is a mind That shall remain a poison where it is, Not poison any further. 
CORIOLANUS 
(EXPLODES) "Shall remain"! Hear you this Triton of the minnows? Mark 
YOU His absolute "shall"? 
BRUTUS Why, should the people give One that speaks thus their voice? 
CORIOLANUS I'll give my reasons, More worthier than their voices! Menenius tries to pull him away, Coriolanus shakes free and continues the attack: 
CORIOLANUS By Jove himself, It makes the consuls base; and my soul 
ACHES To know, when two authorities are up, Neither supreme, how soon confusion, May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take The one by the other. The crowd roars angrily -- Coriolanus spins on them: 
CORIOLANUS Thus we debase the nature of our seats, and make the rabble Call our cares fears; which will in time Break ope the locks of the Senate, and 
BRING IN The crows to peck the eagles! 
MENENIUS Come, enough! 
BRUTUS Enough, with over-measure. 
SICINIUS (calls to the mob) He has spoken like a traitor, and shall 
ANSWER As traitors do! At the word "traitor" Coriolanus loses all reason, he is 
FIRE: 
CORIOLANUS Thou wretch, despite overwhelm thee! 
BRUTUS Manifest treason! 
SICINIUS This is a Consul? No! 
CORIOLANUS Hence, old goat! Coriolanus grabs Sicinius roughly and flings him aside-- At this -- the crowd ROARS in outrage -- the TV crews hustle 
MENENIUS Only fair speech. 
COMINIUS I think it will serve, if he Can thereto frame his spirit. 
VOLUMNIA He must -- and will. 
(TO CORIOLANUS) Prithee now, say you will, and go about it. 
CORIOLANUS 
MUST I With base tongue give my noble heart A lie that it must bear? . Well, I will do it. But he is still agitated. Volumnia shares a concerned glance with Menenius. 
CORIOLANUS 
(BITTERLY) Away, my disposition, and possess me Some harlot's spirit. A beggar's tongue Make motion through my lips, and my armed knees, Who bowed but in my stirrup, bend like 
HIS That hath charity received! The thought of begging is too much, he rejects it, breaking 
AWAY: 
CORIOLANUS I will not do it! Lest I cease to honor mine own truth And by my body's action teach my mind A most inherent baseness. Volumnia snarls at him, exasperated, building to a thunder that dwarfs his: 
VOLUMNIA At thy choice, then! To beg of thee, it is my more dishonor Than thou of them. Come all to ruin! Let Thy mother rather feel thy pride than 
FEAR Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at 
DEATH With as biq heart as thou! Do as you like! The words echo. It is as if he has been slapped. His resolve vanishes. 
CORIOLANUS Pray, be content... Mother, I am going, chide me no more. He awaits her approval. She will not yet grant it. 
CORIOLANUS Look, I am going... Commend me to my wife. I'll return Consul, Or never trust to what my tongue can do In the way of flattery further. She graciously bows to him. 
VOLUMNIA Do your will. Then she kisses him. And she goes. Like a queen. Volumnia triumphant. Always. Then a shocking hard cut to: 
INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - DAY 
A crowded TV studio. The audience stands are filling up. Television cameras. Lights. Heavy security. On the stage: the set for a chat show. Translight of a city skyline behind the set. Two standing microphones. At the side of the set, Sicinius and Brutus are conspiring with the two citizen activists, Cassius and Tamora: 
BRUTUS 
(TO SICINIUS) In this point charge him home: that he 
AFFECTS Tyrannical power. If he evade us there, Enforce him with his envy to the people. 
SICINIUS 
(TO TAMORA) Have you a catalogue Of all the voices that we have procured Set down by the poll? 
TAMORA I have; it's ready. 
SICINIUS When the people hear me say "It shall be 
SO In the right and strength of the Commons," be it either For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them, If I say "Fine," cry "Fine!" - if "Death," cry "Death!" 
TAMORA We shall inform them. 
INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - DAY 
MENENIUS Consider further, That when he speaks not like a citizen, You find him like a soldier. Do not take His rougher accents for malicious sounds, But, as I say, such as become a soldier. Coriolanus cuts in, his impatience getting the better of him: 
CORIOLANUS What is the matter That being passed for Consul with full voice, I am so dishonored that the very hour You take it off again? 
SICINIUS We charge you that you have contrived to 
TAKE From Rome all seasoned office, and to 
WIND Yourself into a power tyrannical 
(MORE) 
SICINIUS (CONT'D) (the coup de grace) For which you are a traitor to the people. Coriolanus responds, a cobra striking: 
CORIOLANUS How? Traitor?! 
MENENIUS 
(ALARMED) Nay, temperately! Your promise. 
CORIOLANUS The fires in the lowest hell fold in the people! Call me their traitor, thou injurious Tribune! 
SICINIUS 
(CALLING) Mark you this, people?! The crowd responds, egged on by Cassius and Tamora. A murmur of voices, a chant growing, "Traitor traitor traitor..." Brutus cleverly plays the reasonable voice, knowing his words will further rile Coriolanus: 
BRUTUS But since he hath Served well for Rome-- 
CORIOLANUS 
(SNAPS) What do you prate of service? 
BRUTUS I talk of that, that know it. 
CORIOLANUS You?! I'll know no further. Let them pronounce death, exile, Flaying, pent to linger But with a grain a day - I would not buy Their mercy at the price of one fair word! 
INT. VILLA -- LIVING ROOM - DAY 
Volumnia watches, alarmed now. She knows this rage will prove to be disastrous for her son. 
INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - DAY 
Sicinius seizes the moment to destroy Coriolanus, barking into the microphone: 
SICINIUS In the name of the people And in the power of us the Tribunes, we, Even from this instant, banish him our city! In the people's name, I say IT SHALL BE SO! Well-rehearsed by Cassius and Tamora, many in the crowd respond with a fierce cry: 
CROWD It shall be so! It shall be so! Let him away! 
TAMORA He's banished! IT SHALL BE SO! 
CROWD It shall be so! It shall be so! It shall be so...! Cassius and Tamora keep the crowd at a fever pitch-- They keep chanting and railing-- A building seismic rumble-- 
COMINIUS 
CORIOLANUS 
(TO VIRGILIA) Come, leave your tears. A brief farewell. 
THE BEAST With many heads butts me away. 
VIRGILIA 
0 HEAVENS 0 HEAVENS Volumnia has tears in her eyes as well. Coriolanus is surprisingly unsentimental and tough with her: 
CORIOLANUS Nay, mother, Where is your ancient courage? 
VOLUMNIA Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome, And occupations perish! 
CORIOLANUS Nay, mother, I shall be loved when I am lacked. She nods to him, she has regained her composure. 
Only then do they climb from the car. 
EXT. WASTELAND CHECKPOINT - DAWN 
Coriolanus takes his leave: 
CORIOLANUS 
(EMBRACING TITUS) Bid me farewell. 
TITUS Farewell, Martius. 
CORIOLANUS 
(EMBRACING COMINIUS) Cominius, droop not, adieu. I'll do well yet. He goes to Menenius, who is genuinely distraught. For all his political machinations, he truly cares for Coriolanus. Coriolanus is moved to see Menenius so emotional. 
CORIOLANUS Thou old and true Menenius, Thy tears are salter than a younger man's, And venomous to thine eyes. 
MENENIUS 
(DEEPLY) If I could shake off but seven years I'd go with thee every foot. They embrace. Then Coriolanus knows it is time to go. He picks up a traveling bag and slings it over his shoulder. Looks back at his friends and family. A beat. A certain darkness creeps into his expression. An ominous resolve. 
CORIOLANUS You shall hear from me still. He turns and looks to the distance. Miles and miles of wasteland and desolation. 
His future. 
CORIOLANUS I go alone, Like to a lonely dragon. He strides off. The soldiers manning the checkpoint raise the barrier. Coriolanus walks under it. And begins walking down the long highway away from Rome. The only sound is the cold, lonely moan of the wind. We fade to... 
EXT./INT. EXILE SEQUENCE - DAY/NIGHT 
Coriolanus' exile. We see his long odyssey. It is a grueling physical journey -- and also something of a spiritual challenge. He is solitary and without comfort: vulnerable to the elements and also to the demons of his own psyche. We see him as... He walks along the barren highway. Trash piled along the road. A car zooms past. Whoosh. He is lost in dust... Blazing heat, like a furnace, as he trudges over desert terrain. Burning oil wells blacken the sky in the distance... Isolated, within himself, as he walks past the detritus of war a burned out tank a mountain of rusted artillery shells skeletons bleached in the sun... His clothes are dusty and dirty now. A sandstorm. He wraps a scarf around his head, like a burnoose. Only his eyes visible now... A gypsy boy in tattered clothing riding a white horse passes him. The boy looks at him intently as he passes... We get a sense of him moving into different terrain, up into a mountain range, climbing... Then descending. Pouring rain. Lightning sparking. He is almost a Romantic figure now. Byronic. Wrapped in a cloak against the wildness of nature; the chiaroscuro flashes of light illuminating his haunted eyes... 
We end at... 
EXT. OUTSIDE ANTIUM - NIGHT 
Coriolanus stands. Like a statue. All his life in his blazing eyes. He is staring at a small town in the distance. We see a sign: ANTIUM. His destination since he began. The home of his nemesis, the hated Aufidius. He begins to walk to the town. 
INT. POLITICO BAR - DAY 
SICINIUS Why stay we to be baited With one that wants her wits? 
VOLUMNIA I would the gods had nothing else to do But to confirm my curses! Menenius gently restrains Volumnia and the Tribunes finally escape the bar. Volumnia takes a breath, controls herself. 
VOLUMNIA Could I meet 'em But once a day, it would unclog my heart Of what lies heavy to it. 
MENENIUS You have told them home; And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me? She turns to him. A cold and killing fire in her eyes. 
VOLUMNIA Anger's my meat. I sup upon myself, And so shall starve with feeding. She takes Virgilia's hand and drags her out. Menenius watches. Saddened. Once proud Volumnia, reduced to this. 
EXT. ANTIUM - NIGHT 
Antium is an old Volscian city gone to seed. It is Latin in flavor, something like Havana. There is life to the place, a certain humid vitality. Someone is singing in a bar. Old men are playing dominos on a patio. Flickering TV and radio babel from terraced apartment buildings. 
Coriolanus, his face still shrouded in the burnoose, like a Hamas soldier, moves through the streets. He takes in the life of the town as he walks. Studying the faces of the Volscians around him. Coriolanus sees a heavily-guarded apartment building at the end of the street. Jeeps and SOLDIERS. Coriolanus approaches with stealth, moving in and out of shadows along the street, ducking into doorways and alleys, taking advantage of the darkness. He stops. Steps into the shadows. For he sees... Aufidius. Walking with a few of his officers. Aufidius is beloved in Antium. He has an easy manner with the people. He stops and chats. Laughs with them. He dances for a moment with a little girl. Coriolanus watches from the shadows, his expression complex. There is real envy . Aufidius has such a comfortable way with the common people, he's natural, unaffected. Aufidius jokes with the little girl's parents for a moment and then moves on. Coriolanus watches Aufidius and his men go into an apartment building. He scans the building with the eye of a Special Forces soldier. He sees that the soldiers guarding the building are bored, it is perfunctory work. Two YOUNG WOMEN, perhaps hookers, move past the front of the building, flirting with the soldiers. The soldiers call and whistle to them, delighted. Coriolanus uses this distraction to slip into the shadows behind the soldiers and sneak into the building... 
INT. APARTMENT BUILDING-CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
Coriolanus moves again with stealth, heading toward what is clearly the center of the action: a noisy room on the second floor. The doorway is guarded by two serious GUARDS. These are not the bored soldiers out front, these are grim and intense warriors. 
Coriolanus considers his course. Decides. Takes a breath. Focuses. He is like ice now. 
HE MOVES-- A steady stride-- He walks right up to the Guards-- Before they can even respond-- He punches one HARD in the throat -- the Guard recoils, gasping for air-- Simultaneously, Coriolanus SLAMS his other hand violently over the entire face of the second Guard -- grabbing his face firmly and SHOVING him back into the door-- So hard that the door slams aside-- And Coriolanus shoves the Guard into-- 
INT. AUFIDIUS' CHAMBER - NIGHT 
Aufidius is having dinner with some of his men, their wives and some children-- The soldiers bolt up, upsetting the table, smashing dishes -- pulling guns -- alarmed-- As Coriolanus powers in, still holding the second Guard by 
THE FACE-- He flings the Guard aside-- Aufidius and his men, all pointing weapons at Coriolanus, are stunned. A long beat. Coriolanus' face is still masked by the burnoose. Only his cold eyes are visible. 
AUFIDIUS Whence comes thou? What wouldst thou? Thy name? Coriolanus does not respond. 
Aufidius is growing uneasy. His men are tense, ready to open fire at any second. 
AUFIDIUS Speak, man! What's thy name? 
CORIOLANUS A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears, And harsh in sound to thine. The other Guard from outside, and several other soldiers, rush in. Weapons drawn, surrounding Coriolanus. He doesn't move a muscle. Aufidius, intrigued by the stranger's courage, waves his men off. 
AUFIDIUS Say, what's thy name? Thou has a grim appearance .What's thy name? 
CORIOLANUS Know'st thou me yet? 
AUFIDIUS I know thee not Thy name? Finally, Coriolanus removes his burnoose. His face is exposed. The Volscians are stunned. 
CORIOLANUS My name is Caius Martius, who hath done To thee particularly and to all the 
VOLSCES Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness 
MAY My surname Coriolanus. The Volscians look to Aufidius, very nervous, unsure how to proceed. Aufidius just stares back at Coriolanus, staggered. 
CORIOLANUS Only that name remains. Aufidius doesn't understand. Coriolanus explains: 
CORIOLANUS The cruelty and envy of the people, Who have all forsook me, hath devoured the rest, And suffered me by the voice of slaves to 
BE 
WILT HAVE The leading of thine own revenges, take The one half of my commission. The Volscian soldiers and politicos are shocked. Aufidius is giving Coriolanus command of half his forces! 
AUFIDIUS And set down--- As best thou art experienced, since thou 
KNOWS Thy country's strength and weakness--- thine own ways, Whether to knock against the gates of Rome, Or rudely visit them in parts remote, To fright them ere destroy. Aufidius looks at Coriolanus hard. There it is. The gauntlet is thrown down. Coriolanus will have to completely betray Rome: expose her military weaknesses, tell her secrets. For all his neurotic intensity, Aufidius is a shrewd man. Coriolanus nods and turns to the battle map, moving various markers around to show Rome's defensive positions. Aufidius watches him with Machiavellian calm. 
INT. POLITICO BAR - DAY 
Several weeks later, back in Rome, politics go on as usual. Menenius is passing the Tribunes' table. They josh with him: 
BRUTUS Is this Menenius? 
SICINIUS 'Tis he,'tis he! 0, he is grown most kind of late. Hail sir! 
MENENIUS Hail to you both. 
SICINIUS 
YOUR CORIOLANUS Is not much missed, but with his friends. 
MENENIUS All's well, and might have been much 
BETTER IF He could have temporized. 
SICINIUS Where is he, hear you? 
MENENIUS Nay, I hear nothing. His mother and his 
WIFE Hear nothing from him. 
BRUTUS Caius Martius was A worthy officer in the war, but insolent, Overcome with pride, ambitious past all thinking, 
SELF-LOVING-- 
MENENIUS I think not so. 
SICINIUS And Rome sits safe and still without him. They are distracted when people begin talking loudly, alarmed, at the bar. They hush each other and watch the TV over the bar. Something has happened. On the TV: a SPECIAL REPORT. Breaking News. A scroll across the bottom of the screen reads "The Volscians On The March?" 
TV ANCHORMAN 
(ON TV) Reports the Volsces with two several 
POWERS Are entered in the Roman territories, And with the deepest malice of the war Destroy what lies before them... 
The whole bar is growing quiet now. All watching the TV, which shows grainy indistinct images -- like cell phone pictures -- of troops and tanks. 
MENENIUS 'Tis Aufidius, Who, hearing of our Martius' banishment, Thrusts forth his horns again into the world. 
SICINIUS 
(NERVOUS) Come, what talk you of Martius? 
BRUTUS It cannot be the Volsces dare break with us. 
TV ANCHORMAN 
INT. VOLSCIAN CAMP-AUFIDIUS' QUARTERS - DAY 
A shattered building. Old graffiti on the walls. Weapons. Maps. Aufidius' gear. Aufidius sits on his cot, deep in thought. He pulls a folded bit of paper from his pocket. Carefully and lovingly unfolds it. He has been carrying this paper for months. We realize it is the glossy magazine cover with the picture of Coriolanus that Aufidius tore out earlier. He gazes at the picture, his fingers smoothing the paper, tracing the contours of Coriolanus' face... 
AUFIDIUS Whether t'was pride, Whether defect of judgement, Or whether nature, Not to be other than one thing, Made him feared, So hated, and so banished. A beat as he studies the picture. His lieutenant watches him closely, disturbed by Aufidius' obsession with Coriolanus. 
AUFIDIUS So our virtues Lie in the interpretation of the time. He brings the picture closer, whispering now: 
AUFIDIUS One fire drives out one fire; one nail, 
ONE NAIL; Rights by rights founder, strengths by strengths do fail And when, Caius, Rome is thine, 
(MORE) 
AUFIDIUS (CONT'D) Thou art poorest of all -- then shortly art thou mine. 
INT. ROMAN WAR ROOM - DAY 
Rome is at war now, so the room is busy and tense. Maps and video footage chart the enemy's progress. Soldiers confer urgently outside the door. Menenius stands with the two Tribunes, Brutus and Sicinius. With them are several SENATORS and GENERALS. Menenius snaps angrily: 
MENENIUS No, I'll not go! 
SICINIUS 
(IMPLORING) 
GOOD MENENIUS-- 
MENENIUS Go, you that banished him! A mile before his tent fall down, and 
KNEE The way into his mercy. They stop when Titus enters with General Cominius. Titus is dusty, has just come from somewhere. He is pale. Truly shaken. Menenius and the others crowd around him, waiting for his report. Titus sits, takes a moment to pull himself together, and then reports with the grim severity of a death sentence: 
TITUS He would not seem to know me. A beat. 
TITUS I urged our old acquaintance, and the 
DROPS That we have bled together. "Coriolanus" He would not answer to, forbade all names... A long beat. They wait for him to go on. Titus searches for the words to continue. 
TITUS He was a kind of nothing. (a difficult beat) Titleless... Till he had forged himself a name in the 
FIRE Of burning Rome. He has no more to say, his head drops. Menenius begins to leave the room. The Tribunes stop him, leading him to a secluded corner: 
SICINIUS If you refuse your aid 
IN THIS-- 
BRUTUS 
IF YOU Would be your country's pleader, your good tongue, More than the instant army we can make, Might stop our countryman. 
MENENIUS No, I'll not meddle. 
SICINIUS Pray you, go to him. 
MENENIUS What should I do? Brutus stops him, with real emotion: 
CORIOLANUS Another word, Menenius, I will not hear thee speak. Menenius stares at him, shaken to the core. The Guards pull Menenius away. Coriolanus doesn't even glance at him. 
EXT. CHECKPOINT-HIGHWAY - DAY 
Back at the Roman checkpoint, Menenius strides toward his limousine. He has been deeply shaken by his interaction with the transformed Coriolanus. General Cominius follows urgently, Menenius doesn't stop: 
MENENIUS This Martius is grown from man to dragon. He has wings; he's more than a creeping thing. He stops at his limo. 
A beat. He turns back to Cominius. We see the pain in Menenius' eyes. 
MENENIUS There is no more mercy in him than there is milk in a male tiger. He climbs into his limo. Shuts the door. The limousine drives off, sending up a cloud of dust that swirls around Cominius. 
INT. MENENIUS' LIMO - DAY 
Menenius sits in the back of his limo as it speeds back to Rome. The rejection by Coriolanus has wounded him. Also he is plagued by guilt. He helped create this monster. He pushed Coriolanus into politics. And now Coriolanus has lost his soul, even his humanity, and Rome is to be put to the sword. All his fault. This preys on him. 
EXT. TRAIN TRACKS - DAY 
Menenius' limousine pulls over by an isolated set of railroad tracks. Weeds springing up. Battered advertising posters. An old chain link fence. Menenius climbs out of the car and walks along the tracks. Thinking. He stops. He sits on the railroad tracks. Pulls out a little pocket knife and, in the Roman fashion, efficiently slits his wrists. He stares out over the hideous landscape. Blood begins to pool around his stylish shoes. From afar we see him, sitting on the railroad tracks, alone and forlorn in this surreal urban wasteland, like a Samuel Beckett character. He slumps over. 
Menenius is dead. 
INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - SUNSET 
The red glow of dusk is shining through the cracked and dusty windows. Coriolanus, still in the barber chair, broods silently. Aufidius sits nearby, watching him. The visit from Menenius is troubling Coriolanus. 
CORIOLANUS My partner in this action, You must report to the Volscian lords how 
PLAINLY I have borne this business. Aufidius is curiously formal in his response, the estrangement he feels toward Coriolanus growing: 
AUFIDIUS Only their ends You have respected; stopped your ears 
AGAINST The general suit of Rome; never admitted A private whisper, no, not with such 
FRIENDS That thought them sure of you. 
CORIOLANUS This last old man, Whom with a cracked heart I have sent to Rome, Loved me above the measure of a father. Shouts and whistles from outside the factory draw their attention. 
EXT. VOLSCIAN CAMP - SUNSET 
Volumnia, Virgilia and Young Martius stride past the soldiers and mountains of military hardware. Volumnia leads, pulling the others by the hand. Some of the soldiers whistle. Some spit. Others laugh and make lascivious noises. Many just watch with grim dislike. Volumnia appears to be completely impervious to the whistles and cruel taunts. Her head is high, back straight, eagle eye forward. She was never more a Roman patrician. 
She is magnificent. 
INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - SUNSET 
Coriolanus stands as Volumnia, Virgilia and Young Martius are led into the factory. He tries to register nothing, assuming a sort of glacial calm. Volumnia and the others stop -- taking in Coriolanus' savage new demeanor and appearance -- taking in the Acolytes and pagan totems. Volumnia just stands, peering sternly at her son. As if daring him not to crumble before her. He doesn't. Aufidius watches everything closely. It is Virgilia, finally, who bravely approaches: 
VIRGILIA My lord and husband-- He stop her, almost a warning, with: 
CORIOLANUS These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome. 
VIRGILIA The sorrow that delivers us thus changed Makes you think so. 
CORIOLANUS Best of my flesh, Forgive my tyranny, but do not say For that "Forgive our Romans." She shows great courage. Stepping forward and kissing him deeply. A long kiss. 
NO SOONER March to assault thy country than to Tread on thy mother's womb That brought thee to this world. 
VIRGILIA 
(STANDS) Ay, and mine, That brought you forth this boy, to keep 
YOUR NAME Living to time. Young Martius stands as well and approaches his father, challenging and warlike: 
YOUNG MARTIUS You shall not tread on me. I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight! Coriolanus stares at him -- the intensity of the boy's aggression is disturbing. And familiar. 
CORIOLANUS I have sat too long. He rises and turns as if to go-- 
VOLUMNIA Nay, go not from us thus! Her command stops him. She appeals, quickly getting to the point of her argument: 
VOLUMNIA If it were so that our request did tend To save the Romans, thereby to destroy The Volsces whom you serve, you might 
CONDEMN US As poisonous of your honor. No, our suit Is that you reconcile them -- so the 
VOLSCES 
(MORE) 
VOLUMNIA (CONT'D) May say "This mercy we have showed," the Romans, "This we received," and each in either 
SIDE Give the all-hail to thee and cry, "Be 
BLEST For making up this peace!" Coriolanus does not respond. She softens... 
VOLUMNIA Speak to me, son... Still he does not respond. His emotions are roiling. Still she is soft and vulnerable... 
VOLUMNIA Why dost not speak? But softness is not a note she plays naturally. She knows it. Her natural aggressiveness comes out, anger and outrage gradually boiling to the surface: 
VOLUMNIA Thinks thou it honorable for a noble man Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak you. He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy. Perhaps thy childishness will move him 
MORE Than can our reasons. There's no man in 
THE WORLD More bound to his mother, yet here he lets me prate Like one in the stocks! She is assaulting him now, on the attack: 
VOLUMNIA Thou hast never in thy life Showed thy dear mother any courtesy, When she, poor hen, Has clucked thee to the wars and safely 
HOME Loaded with honor. Say my request's unjust, And spurn me back; and the gods will 
(MORE) 
VOLUMNIA (CONT'D) plague thee, That thou restrains from me the duty 
WHICH To a mother's part belongs! Coriolanus can take no more, turns and begins to walk away-- Volumnia reacts like lightning -- grabbing Virgilia and Young Martius and dragging them to the dirt with her-- 
VOLUMNIA Down! Let us shame him with our knees! She claws at the dirt -- like Hecuba -- keening -- a shocking explosion of raw emotion -- almost an incantation: 
VOLUMNIA Down! An end! This is the last. So we will home to Rome, And die among our neighbors. Nay, behold! This boy, that cannot tell what he would 
HAVE But kneels and holds up hands for fellowship, Does reason our petition with more 
STRENGTH Than thou hast to deny it. She remains kneeling, panting for air. Coriolanus looks at her. His noble mother. Clawing in the dirt like an animal. Filthy. Despairing. Her face wet with tears. She looks back up at him. She senses she has failed. It's over. 
LIEUTENANT Our soldiers will remain uncertain whilst 'Twixt you there's difference; but the 
(MORE) 
LIEUTENANT (CANT'D) fall of either Makes the survivor heir of all. 
AUFIDIUS I know it, And my pretext to strike at him admits A good construction. A beat. He continues more to himself than them, almost convincing himself. 
AUFIDIUS I raised him, and I pawned Mine honor for his truth; who being so heightened, He watered his new plants with dews of flattery, Seducing so my friends. 
(BITTERLY) At the last I seemed his follower, not partner, and He waged me with his countenance as if I had been mercenary. 
LIEUTENANT So he did, my lord. The army marveled at it; and in the last, When he had carried Rome and that we 
LOOKED For no less spoil than glory-- Aufidius works himself into an intense, neurotic rage: 
AUFIDIUS There was it! For which my sinews shall be stretched upon him. At a few drops of women's rheum, which 
ARE As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and 
LABOR Of our great action -- Therefore shall he die, And I'll renew me in his fall. 
LIEUTENANT Therefore, at your vantage, Ere he express himself or move the people With what he would say, let him feel your sword, Which we will second. 
AUFIDIUS 
(SEES SOMETHING) Say no more. In the distance they can see a Roman military truck approaching. Clouds of dust billow up. They exchange a look. This is what they have been waiting for. They stand, stretch and prepare. The truck stops across the highway from them and Coriolanus gets out. He holds a copy of the peace treaty in a leather portfolio. He is unarmed. He stops. He sees Aufidius and the thugs. Waiting for him. Like a death squad. Coriolanus looks at them. He knows exactly what's going to happen. He is ready. He nods and the truck drives off. Coriolanus slowly crosses the highway to the truck stop, like a gunslinger walking down Main Street. There is something new to Coriolanus here. A sort of acceptance. He knows his time is past. Aufidius and the thugs go to meet him. The thugs spread out a bit, strategically, getting ready to strike. Coriolanus' experienced eyes miss none of this. They meet in the parking lot. 
CORIOLANUS 
(TO AUFIDIUS) I am returned your soldier, No more infected with my country's love Than when I parted hence, but still 
SUBSISTING Under your great command. He hands the treaty portfolio to Aufidius: 
CORIOLANUS We have made peace With no less honor to the Volscians Than shame to the Romans. 
AUFIDIUS (handing the treaty to 
LIEUTENANT) Read it not, But tell the traitor, in the highest 
DEGREE He hath abused your powers. Coriolanus is ready for Aufidius' ploy. He is amused at the obvious attempt to anger him: 
CORIOLANUS Traitor? How now? 
AUFIDIUS Ay, traitor, Martius. 
CORIOLANUS "Martius"? 
AUFIDIUS Ay, Martius, Caius Martius! Dost thou 
THINK I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy 
STOLEN NAME "Coriolanus"? He spins to the others, making the case against Coriolanus with cutting bitterness: 
AUFIDIUS 
