"CRASH" 
Screenplay by 
David Cronenberg 
Based on a novel by 
J.G. Ballard 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
EXT. AIRFIELD -- DAY 
We are moving through a small airfield full of parked light planes. There are no people around. We move through the cluster of planes toward a hangar on the edge of the field. 
INT. HANGAR -- DAY 
We are still moving through light planes, but now we are inside the hangar. Some of the planes have their engine covers open, parts strewn around. Others are partially covered with tarps or have sections missing. There is even a sleek executive jet parked in one corner. 
As we float past the planes we notice a woman leaning against the wing of a Piper Cub, her chest against the wing's trailing edge, her arms spread out to each side, as though flying herself. As we get closer we see that her jacket is pulled open to expose one of her breasts, which rests on the metal of the wing. 
CU breast on metal. CU hard nipple and rivets. 
CU woman -- Catherine. Early thirties, dark, short hair, stylish executive clothes. Her eyes are wide open but unfocussed. A hand grips her shoulder from behind. We follow the hand down behind Catherine and discover a man crouched behind her, kissing her back. 
Catherine is standing on a low mechanic's platform and her skirt has been raised and hooked over the wing's flap. She wears garters and stockings but no panties. 
The man, handsome, cruel-looking, rises up behind her, enters her, kisses her neck. Catherine half closes her eyes. She rotates her pelvis gently against the thrusting. 
EXT. FILM STUDIO -- DAY 
We are floating toward the modest gates of a small film studio; the sign above the gates says 'CineTerra' in Art Deco script. 
INT. FILM STUDIO -- DAY 
CATHERINE In the private aircraft hangar. Anybody could have walked in. 
JAMES Did you come? 
CATHERINE No. What about your camera girl? Did she come? 
JAMES We were interrupted. I had to go back to the set... 
Catherine turns toward James and pulls open her blouse, exposing her left breast. She pulls James's face down and presses her nipple against his cheek. 
CATHERINE Poor darling. (pause) What can I do about Karen? How can I arrange to have her seduce me? She desperately needs a conquest. 
JAMES I've been thinking about that, about you and Karen. 
INT. DEPARTMENT STORE. LINGERIE DEPARTMENT -- DAY 
James lingers among racks of nightdresses outside a changing cubicle. Monitored by a bored, seen-it-all middle-aged saleswoman, James glances now and then through the curtains to watch Karen help Catherine try on underwear. 
Karen, Catherine's secretary, a moody, unsmiling girl, is methodically involved in the soft technology of Catherine's breasts and the brassières designed to show them off. 
Karen touches Catherine with peculiar caresses, tapping her lightly with the tips of her fingers, first upon the shoulders, along the pink grooves left by her underwear, then across her back, where the metal clasps of her brassière have left a medallion of impressed skin, and finally on the elastic-patterned grooves beneath Catherine's breasts themselves. 
Catherine stands through this in a trance-like state, gabbling to herself in a low voice, as the tip of Karen's right forefinger surreptitiously touches her nipple. 
INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING-LOT -- DAY 
James sits in the car beside his wife. She watches as his fingers move across the control panel, switching on the ignition, the direction indicator, selecting the drive lever, fastening his seat-belt. 
As the car moves off, James puts his free hand between Catherine's thighs. 
INT. FILM STUDIO. JAMES'S OFFICE -- NIGHT 
James studies storyboards for an automotive battery commercial, which are spread out over a broad architect's table. He makes notes on each panel of the boards with a sharp pencil. 
As we move around him, we reveal his secretary, Renata, sitting and watching him intently from the vantage point of her corner chair, her hand poised to write down anything he might say in a small, leather-bound notebook. 
Traffic is beginning to back up behind the accident and a growing circle of spectators, some of them pedestrians, some drivers who have left their own cars, begins to form. 
The more adventurous members of the crowd paw hesitantly at the seized doors of the two cars, afraid really to yank them open in case the violence of that act might trigger some further unnamed catastrophe. 
INT. JAMES'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Numbly watching James as she fumbles to undo her seat-belt, the woman in the other crashed car inadvertently jerks open her blouse and exposes her breast to James, its inner curve marked by a dark, strap-like bruise made by her seat-belt. 
In the strange, desperate privacy of this moment, the breast's erect nipple seems somehow, impossibly, a deliberate provocation. 
INT. HOSPITAL -- DAY 
We are close on a face having makeup applied to it. It is a very pale, blotchy face, and the makeup is smoothing it, making it appear healthy and even slightly tanned. There are also some crude black stitches in this face, and we realize that it is James's face, and that a very serious Catherine is applying the makeup. 
James's legs are up in a sling, drainage tubes coming from both knees. Wounds on his chest: broken skin around the lower edge of the sternum, where the horn boss had been driven upwards by the collapsing engine compartment; a semicircular bruise, a marbled rainbow, running from one nipple to the other. Stitches in the laceration across the scalp, a second hairline an inch below the original. Unshaven face and fretting hands. 
Catherine is dressed more for a smart lunch with an airline executive than to visit her husband in hospital. 
CATHERINE There, that's better. 
JAMES Thank you. 
James examines himself in her hand-mirror, staring at his pale, mannequin-like face, trying to read its lines. 
Catherine looks around her as she puts her makeup away. There are twenty-three other beds in the briskly efficient-looking new ward, all of them empty. 
CATHERINE Not a lot of action here. 
JAMES They consider this to be the airport hospital. This ward is reserved for air-crash victims. The beds are kept waiting. 
CATHERINE If I groundloop during my flying lesson on Saturday you might wake up and find me next to you. 
JAMES I'll listen for you buzzing over. 
Catherine crosses her legs and tries to light a cigarette with a heavy, mechanically complex lighter with which she is obviously unfamiliar. 
James waves the folder away. Catherine examines his body, aloofly curious. 
JAMES Where's the car? 
CATHERINE Outside in the visitors' car-park. 
JAMES What!? They brought the car here? 
CATHERINE My car, not yours. Yours is a complete wreck. The police dragged it to the pound behind the station. 
JAMES Have you seen it? 
CATHERINE The sergeant asked me to identify it. He didn't believe you'd gotten out alive. 
JAMES It's about time. 
CATHERINE It is? 
JAMES After being bombarded endlessly by road-safety propaganda, it's almost a relief to have found myself in an actual accident. 
INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAYS -- NIGHT 
James is taking his walk through the hallways, trundling his IV stand along with him like an awkward pet. 
A white-coated doctor -- Vaughan -- steps into the ward from a room at the end of the hall. He is bare-chested under his white coat. His strong hands carry a briefcase filled with photographs, which he pauses to shuffle through, as though checking a map. 
As James approaches this new visitor, Vaughan's pockmarked jaws chomp on a piece of gum, creating the impression that he might be hawking obscene pictures around the wards, pornographic X-ray plates and blacklisted urinalyses. He sports copious scar tissue around his forehead and mouth, rumpled and puckered as though residues from some terrifying act of violence. 
Vaughan looks James up and down, taking in every detail of his injuries with evident interest. 
VAUGHAN James Ballard? 
JAMES Yes? 
VAUGHAN Crash victim? 
JAMES What about his wife? The woman doctor? Have you visited her yet? 
CATHERINE No, I couldn't. I feel too close to her. 
EXT. ROAD HOME FROM HOSPITAL -- DAY 
Catherine and James travel home in the back seat of a taxi. Learning against the rear window of the taxi, James finds himself flinching with excitement toward the approaching traffic streams, which now seem threatening and super-real. 
Catherine watches him, aware that he is over-exhilarated, very excited herself by his new sensitivity to the traffic. 
EXT. BALLARD APT. BALCONY -- DAY 
James sits in a reclining chair on the balcony of his apartment, looking down through the anodized balcony rails at the neighborhood ten stories below. 
Cars fill the suburban streets, choking the parking-lots of the supermarkets, ramped on to the pavements. Two minor accidents have caused a massive tail-back along the flyover which crosses the entrance tunnel to the airport. In one of them, a white laundry-van has bumped into the back of a sedan filled with wedding guests. 
James gazes raptly down at this immense motion sculpture, this incomprehensible pinball machine. 
Catherine comes on to the balcony, kneels down beside him, begins to toy lovingly with the scars on his knees. 
CATHERINE Renata tells me you're going to rent a car. 
JAMES I can't sit on this balcony forever. I'm beginning to feel like a potted plant. 
CATHERINE How can you drive? James... your legs. You can barely walk. 
JAMES Is the traffic heavier now? There seem to be three times as many cars as there were before the accident. 
CATHERINE I've never really noticed. Is Renata going with you? 
JAMES I thought she might come along. Handling a car again might be more tiring than I imagine. 
CATHERINE I'm amazed that she'll let you drive her. 
JAMES You're not envious? 
HELEN This is your car? 
She reaches out a gloved hand and touches the radiator grill, feeling a chrome pillar torn from the accordion, as if searching for some trace of her husband's presence among the blood-spattered paintwork. 
JAMES You'll tear your gloves. 
James gently takes her hand and moves it away from the grill. 
JAMES I don't think we should have come here. I'm surprised the police don't make it more difficult. 
HELEN Were you badly hurt? I think we saw each other at the hospital. (pause) I don't want the car. In fact, I was appalled to find that I have to pay a small fee to have it scrapped. 
JAMES Can I give you a lift? (almost apologetically) I somehow find myself driving again. 
INT. JAMES'S CAR -- DAY 
James is driving Helen Remington away from the police pound. 
JAMES You haven't told me where we're going. 
HELEN Haven't I? To the airport, if you could. 
At these words, James is stricken by an odd feeling of loss. 
JAMES The airport? Why? Are you leaving? 
HELEN Not yet -- though not soon enough for some people, I've already found. A death in the doctor's family makes the patients doubly uneasy. 
JAMES I take it you're not wearing white to reassure them. 
HELEN I'll wear a bloody kimono if I want to. 
JAMES So -- why the airport? 
HELEN I work in the immigration department there. 
HELEN I've found that I enjoy burying myself in heavy traffic. I like to look at it. Yesterday I hired a taxi-driver to drive me around for an hour. 'Anywhere,' I said. We sat in a massive traffic jam under an off- ramp. I don't think we moved more than fifty yards. (pause) I'm thinking of taking up a new job with the Road Research Laboratory. They need a medical officer. The salary is larger -- something I've got to think about now. There's a certain moral virtue in being materialistic, I'm beginning to feel. Well, it's a new approach for me, in any case. 
JAMES The Road Research Laboratory? Where they simulate car crashes? 
HELEN Yes. 
JAMES Isn't that rather too close...? 
HELEN That's the point. Besides, I know I can give something now that I wasn't remotely aware of before. It's not a matter of duty so much as of commitment. 
They have now reached the top level of the multi-story car- park, and James pulls into a parking spot overlooking a major runway. An immense jumbo jet is maneuvering into its take- off position. 
James turns off the car and puts his arms around Helen. She offers no resistance, as though the whole scenario were well understood and agreed upon. James kisses her mouth, her eyelids, unzips her dress. 
With the jet engines screaming for accompaniment, Helen lifts her right breast from her brassière, pressing James's fingers against the hot nipple. Helen now straddles him and, awkwardly meshing with the technology around them, they make love in the driver's seat of the car. 
INT. BALLARD APT. -- NIGHT 
James and Catherine make love in the same position as in the preceding scene. 
James's thoughts keep flashing back to himself and Helen in his car, the images mixing confusingly with his present lovemaking to Catherine. 
INT. FILM STUDIO. JAMES'S OFFICE -- DAY 
James is back in his office, but it is obvious that he is only nibbling at the work that has piled up in his absence. Renata comes in. 
RENATA I almost forgot to give you this. Probably because I know you're going to like it. 
Renata hands James a brown manila envelope with no markings on it. 
JAMES What is it? 
RENATA A complimentary ticket for a special stunt-driving exhibition. Definitely not part of the big auto show. There's a map in the packet and a note requesting you be discreet about the location. 
JAMES Really? What kind of exhibition is it? 
HELEN That's Vaughan. He talked to you at the hospital. 
JAMES Oh, yes. I thought he was a medical photographer, doing some sort of accident research. He wanted every conceivable detail about our crash. 
HELEN When I first met Vaughan, he was a specialist in international computerized traffic systems. I don't know what he is now. 
VAUGHAN (over speakers) The second star is stuntman and former race driver -- Colin Seagrave, who will drive our replica of James Dean's car. 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- NIGHT 
Seagrave, a coarse and burly man, wriggles his way behind the wheel of the delicate little race car without acknowledging the cheers of the crowd. He wears James Dean clothes -- a red windbreaker, a white T-shirt, jeans, loafers, prescription glasses with clip-on sunshades. 
As he talks, Vaughan tours the phalanx of tripod-mounted cameras to check their placement, and chats off-mike with the pair of cameramen with hand-held cameras. He seems to be more the director of the event, possibly the ringmaster, than an actor in it. 
VAUGHAN (over speakers) I myself shall play the role of James Dean's racing mechanic, Rolf Wütherich, sent over from the Porsche factory in Zuffenhausen, Germany. This mechanic was himself fated to die in a car crash in Germany twenty- six years later. And the third and in some ways most important party, the college student Donald Turnupseed, played by movie stuntman Brett Trask. 
Trask, slim and wiry, wearing loafers and a blazer, waves his hand and gets into a replica of Turnupseed's two-tone, black-and-white 1950 Ford sedan. He starts up the Ford, which smokes badly, and drives it up the hill about 100 yards. 
VAUGHAN (over speakers) Turnupseed was on his way back to his home in Fresno for the weekend. James Dean was on his way to an automobile race in Salinas, a dusty town in northern California. The two would only meet for one moment, but it was a moment that would create a Hollywood legend. 
At this point Vaughan, who is dressed in light-blue cotton 1950s mechanics' overalls, sees James and Helen in the thin crowd and waves to them, as though they were long-standing aficionados of crash spectacles. He doesn't wait to see if they react, but immediately steps into the passenger side of the Porsche, microphone still in hand. 
VAUGHAN (over speakers) You'll notice that we are not wearing helmets or safety padding of any kind, and our cars are not equipped with roll cages or seat-belts. We depend solely on the skill of our drivers for our safety, so that we can bring you the ultimate in authenticity. All right, here we go. The fatal crash of James Dean! 
Vaughan hands the microphone to a stills cameraman who also functions as an assistant, and then sinks down into the silver car. 
Seagrave starts the Porsche, which settles quickly into a husky idle. A few blips of the throttle, and then the Porsche is reversed down to the edge of the lighted strip of road. 
When the Porsche stops, the excited crowd goes quiet. An assistant with a walkie-talkie kneels beside the silver car on the driver's side, co-ordinating the start with his opposite number standing next to the Ford over the hill. 
There is a calculated pause before anything happens, and then the Porsche spins its wheels and accelerates up the hill. 
From their vantage point in the stand, James and Helen can clearly see that the Ford has also started and that the two cars are headed toward each other, each in its respective lane. 
The Porsche accelerates hard, the Ford lumbers along at a moderate pace, swaying clumsily on its soft springs. 
Just as James and Helen step on the road, six police cars, lights flashing and sirens wailing, converge on the lit stretch of road, three from each end. They screech to a halt and dozens of cops pour out of the cars. 
The crowd panics and streams down from the grandstand on to the road. A loudspeaker mounted on one of the police cars begins to blare. 
POLICE (over loudspeaker) This is an illegal and unauthorized automotive demonstration which is in contravention of the Highway Traffic Act. You are all liable to fines and possible arrest and confinement... Disperse at once! Disperse at once! 
Because James and Helen are just in advance of the first wave of spectators, they manage to link up with Vaughan as he helps haul a still-groggy Seagrave off the road and into the woods. Helen takes Seagrave's free arm. 
HELEN (to Vaughan) What's the matter with Seagrave? 
VAUGHAN Hit his head, I think. His balance is off. 
The police spread out through the crowd, collaring people at random before they are able to escape into the woods. 
EXT. WOODS -- NIGHT 
James and Helen help Vaughan hustle Seagrave through the woods. The din of the roadway fades away behind them. 
JAMES Why are the police taking this all so seriously? 
VAUGHAN It's not the police. It's the Department of Transport. Internal politics. It's a joke. They have no idea who we really are. 
In the gathering darkness of the woods, it is apparent that James doesn't really know who they are either. 
INT. VAUGHAN'S LINCOLN -- NIGHT 
Vaughan drives the Lincoln through a scarred, bleak landscape. In the front seat with him are Helen and James. Seagrave is lying down in the back seat with his eyes closed. 
VAUGHAN That was glib, wasn't it? 'James Dean died of a broken neck and became immortal.' But I couldn't resist. 
Vaughan puts his hand between Helen's thighs. She seems not to notice, but her eyes close dreamily every once in a while. James watches microscopically. 
Sometimes, when the flow of traffic allows, Vaughan stares intently at James while his hand works away between Helen's thighs, and James looks away, flushed, like a schoolgirl. 
EXT. SEAGRAVE'S GARAGE -- NIGHT 
INT. VAUGHAN'S WORKSHOP -- NIGHT 
James follows Vaughan down a cramped corridor to a photographic workshop formed out of a warren of small rooms. Vaughan eases James into the first room and then carefully closes the door behind them. 
JAMES Do you live here? With Seagrave? 
VAUGHAN (laughs) I live in my car. This is my workshop. 
Pinned to the walls and lying on the benches among the enamel pails are hundreds of photographs. The floor around the enlarger is littered with half-plate prints, developed and cast aside once they have yielded their images. Vaughan makes a sweeping gesture that takes in all the photographs. 
VAUGHAN And this is the new project, Ballard. 
As Vaughan hunts around the central table, turning the pages of a leather-bound album, James looks down at the discarded prints below his feet. Most of them are crude frontal pictures of motor-cars and heavy vehicles involved in highway collisions, surrounded by spectators and police, and close- ups of impacted radiator grills and windshields. 
Vaughan opens the album at random and hands it to James. He leans back against the door and watches as James adjusts the desk lamp. 
The first thirty pages record the crash, hospitalization, and post-recuperative romance of the young woman Gabrielle -- a social worker, the photos suggest -- who is currently getting very stoned in the next room. 
By coincidence, her small sports car had collided with an airline bus at the entry to the airport not far from the site of James's own accident. Vaughan had obviously been there, shooting film, moments after the crash. The incredibly detailed photos end with her affair with her physical therapy instructor. 
The remainder of the album describes the course of James's own accident and recovery, and includes his sexual encounters with Renata, Helen Remington, and his own wife, Catherine. Vaughan stands at James's shoulder, like an instructor ready to help a promising pupil. 
James closes the book. 
JAMES What kind of help can I possibly be to you? You seem to be everywhere at once as it is. 
At that moment, there is a knock at the door, and then Gabrielle enters and takes a few stiff steps into the room on her shackled legs. She holds out a couple of joints to Vaughan. 
GABRIELLE Thought you might be missing these. (to James) So here you are at the nerve centre. Vaughan makes everything look like a crime, doesn't he? 
Vaughan takes the joints and lights them both. He hands one to James, who takes it gratefully. 
JAMES What exactly is your project, Vaughan? A book of crashes? A medical study? A sensational documentary? Global traffic? 
VAUGHAN It's something we're all intimately involved in: the reshaping of the human body by modern technology. 
CATHERINE Do you find him attractive? 
JAMES He's very pale. Covered with scars. 
CATHERINE Would you like to fuck him, though? In that car? 
JAMES No. But when he's in that car... 
CATHERINE Have you seen his penis? 
JAMES I think it's badly scarred too. From a motorcycle accident. 
CATHERINE Is he circumcised? Can you imagine what his anus is like? Describe it to me. Would you like to sodomize him? Would you like to put your penis right into his anus, thrust it up his anus? Tell me, describe it to me. Tell me what you would do. How would you kiss him in that car? Describe how you'd reach over and unzip his greasy jeans, then take out his penis. Would you kiss it or suck it right away? Which hand would you hold it in? Have you ever sucked a penis? Do you know what semen tastes like? Have you ever tasted semen? Some semen is saltier than others. Vaughan's semen must be very salty... 
They both have huge orgasms within moments of each other. 
INT. HELEN'S CAR -- DAY 
We are close on the distracted, solicitous face of Helen Remington. 
HELEN Have you come? 
Helen Remington and James are having sex in the back seat of Helen's car, Helen sitting on James's lap with her back to him. She dismounts him and touches his shoulder with an uncertain hand, as though he were a patient she had worked hard to revive. 
EXT. AIRPORT CAR-PARK -- DAY 
Helen's car is parked on the upper level of the airport car- park, which is currently quite busy. Streams of traffic, both pedestrian and vehicular, flow past the car. 
INT. HELEN'S CAR -- DAY 
James lies against the rear seat of the car while Helen dresses with abrupt movements, straightening her shirt around her hips like a department-store window-dresser jerking a garment on to a mannequin. 
JAMES Please finish your story. 
HELEN The junior pathologist at Ashford Hospital. Then the husband of a colleague of mine, then a trainee radiologist, then the service manager at my garage. 
James looks down at the silk-suited wife of a Ministry official standing beside him. Her eyes watch the film with a rapt gaze, as if she were seeing herself and her daughters dismembered in the crash. 
INT. VAUGHAN'S CAR -- NIGHT 
James rides in Vaughan's car. Vaughan drives aggressively, rolling the heavy car along the access roads, holding the battered bumpers a few feet behind any smaller vehicle until it moves out of the way. 
VAUGHAN I've always wanted to drive a crashed car. 
JAMES You could get your wish at any moment. 
VAUGHAN No, I mean a crash with a history. Camus's Facel Vega, or Nathaniel West's station wagon, Grace Kelly's Rover 3500. Fix it just enough to get it rolling. Don't clean it, don't touch anything else. 
JAMES Is that why you drive this car? I take it that you see Kennedy's assassination as a special kind of car crash? 
VAUGHAN The case could be made. 
They approach a major intersection. For almost the first time on this drive, Vaughan applies the brakes. 
The heavy car sways and goes into a long right-hand slide which carries it across the path of a taxi. Flooring the accelerator, Vaughan swerves in front of it, tires screaming over the blaring horn of the taxi. 
As they settle down, Vaughan reaches behind him and lifts a briefcase off the back seat. 
VAUGHAN Take a look at this and tell me what you think. 
James opens the briefcase and slides out a thick packet of glossy photographs, all of them marked up with coloured ink pens. 
The photos are culled from a variety of sources -- newspapers, magazines, video stills, film frames -- blown up to uniform 8' x 10' size. Each one depicts a famous crash victim in the prime of life, and each one has the wounds to come marked up very explicitly -- lines circling their necks and pubic areas, breasts and cheekbones shaded in, section lines across their mouths and abdomens. Handwritten notes complement the circles and arrows. 
A second packet of photographs shows the cars in which these famous people died. Each photo is marked to show which parts of the cars destroyed or fused with which famous body part: for example, a close-up of the dashboard and windshield from the Camus car -- Michel Gallimard's Facel Vega -- is marked 'nasal bridge', 'soft palate', 'left zygomatic arch'. 
JAMES It's very... satisfying. I'm not sure I understand why. 
VAUGHAN It's the future, Ballard, and you're already part of it. For the first time, a benevolent psychopathology beckons towards us. For example, the car crash is a fertilizing rather than a destructive event -- a liberation of sexual energy that mediates the sexuality of those who have died with an intensity impossible in any other form. To fully understand that, and to live that... that is my project. 
JAMES What about the reshaping of the human body by modern technology? I thought that was your project. 
RENATA I'm going to leave now. Do you want a lift? 
JAMES No, thanks. I'll go with Vaughan. 
EXT. FILM STUDIO. PARKING-LOT -- DUSK 
James walks out into the nearly deserted parking-lot to find two cars parked in front of Vaughan's Lincoln: a police patrol car and Catherine's white sports car. 
One policeman is inspecting the Lincoln, peering through the dusty windows, with Vaughan fidgeting beside him. The other stands beside Catherine's car, questioning her. 
James slows guiltily as both policemen begin to talk to Vaughan. Catherine spots James and walks crisply over to him. 
CATHERINE They're questioning Vaughan about an accident near the airport. Some pedestrian... they think he was run over intentionally. 
JAMES Vaughan isn't interested in pedestrians. 
As if taking their cue from this, the policemen walk back to their car. Vaughan watches them go, head raised like a periscope. 
CATHERINE You'd better drive him. He's a bit shaky. I'll follow in my car. Where is yours? 
JAMES At home. I couldn't face all this traffic. 
CATHERINE I'd better come with you, then. Are you sure you can drive? 
As Catherine and James walk toward Vaughan, he reaches into the rear seat of his car and pulls out a white sweatshirt. As he takes off his denim jacket, the falling light picks out the scars on his naked abdomen and chest, a constellation of white chips that circle his body from the left armpit down to his crotch. 
EXT. JAMMED MOTORWAY -- NIGHT 
The Lincoln has entered an immense traffic jam, and brake- lights flare in the evening air. Vaughan sits with one arm out the passenger window. He slaps the door impatiently, pounding the panel with his fist. 
A police car speeds down the descent lane of a flyover, headlights and roof-lamps flashing. Ahead, two policemen steer the traffic from the nearside curb. Warning tripods set up on the pavement flash a rhythmic 'Slow... Slow... Accident... Accident...' 
Eventually, they begin to edge past the accident site, which is lit by a circle of police spotlights. Three vehicles -- a taxi, a limousine and a small sports sedan -- have collided where an on-ramp joins the main roadway. A crowd has gathered on the sidewalks and on the pedestrian bridge that spans the road. 
Beside the taxi, its three passengers lie in a group, blankets swathing their chests and legs. First-aid men work on the driver, an elderly man who sits upright against the fender of his car, face and clothes speckled with drops of blood. 
When the roof of the sports sedan is levered up, the hair of the driver, its only passenger, comes off with it as though scalped, stuck to the roofliner with drying blood. But it's soon apparent that it's not hair, but rather a cheap, tangled, platinum blond wig. 
Vaughan makes his way over to the sedan, intrigued by the dangling 'scalp', which is almost phosphorescent in the road- rescue work lights. Catherine trails obediently behind him, like a harshly disciplined puppy. 
When the body of the driver is exposed to the lights, the effect is doubly grotesque, for not only is the driver dead and partially crushed, but he is also a cross-dresser: Seagrave, in Jayne Mansfield drag. His long, greasy hair is tied up in a knot on his head, he is unshaven, his huge, fake bosom is bloody and askew; his bloated, muscular body strains against the pink 60s skirt and jacket, the blue suede boots with high heels. 
There is also a dead Chihuahua bitch inside the car with Seagrave, which Vaughan manages to move with his foot until a cop, outraged, shoos him away. The dog is stiff with rigor mortis, obviously dead long before the crash. 
An excited Vaughan has spotted James and now approaches him, breathless. 
VAUGHAN It's Seagrave. He was worried that we would never do Jayne Mansfield's crash, now that the police were cracking down. So he did it himself. 
Vaughan turns back to look at the wreck again, almost reverent. This is Seagrave's own solitary work of art. 
VAUGHAN (shakes his head) The dog -- God, the dog is brilliant, perfect. I wonder where he got it? 
Now Vaughan turns to James, his face flushed, incandescent with joy. 
VAUGHAN Come with me, James. I have to document it. 
Vaughan lopes off toward the Seagrave wreck. 
But James hangs back, watching, as the passengers from the taxi are carried on stretchers to an ambulance. The dead chauffeur of the limousine lies with a blanket over his face, while a doctor and two ambulance men climb into the rear compartment. 
Beyond them, Vaughan begins to snap away at every possible aspect of Seagrave's wreck, beginning with the dead Chihuahua. 
EXT. MOTORWAY VERGE -- NIGHT 
Some time later, as the crowd disperses and the traffic begins to flow normally, James kneels beside the Lincoln and shows Vaughan the blood on his door. Catherine sits in the back seat. 
JAMES We must have driven through a pool of blood. If the police stop you again, they may impound the car while they have the blood analyzed. 
Vaughan kneels beside him and inspects the smears of blood. 
VAUGHAN You're right, Ballard. There's an all-night car-wash in the airport service area. 
At just this moment, Catherine looks into James's eyes in an instant of complete lucidity. Her expression shows both irony and affection, an acceptance of a sexual logic they both recognize and have prepared themselves for. 
James sits quietly in the front seat as the white soap sluices across the roof and doors like liquid lace. Catherine cries out, a gasp of pain cut off by Vaughan's strong hand across her mouth. He sits back with her legs across his hips, slapping her with his free hand. His sweaty face is clamped in an expression of anger and distress. The blows raise blunted weals on Catherine's arm and hips. 
EXT. DESERTED MOTORWAY -- NIGHT 
James drives the Lincoln home along a deserted motorway. 
INT. VAUGHAN'S CAR -- NIGHT 
The street-lamps illuminate Vaughan's sleeping face in the rear of the car, scarred mouth lying open like a child's against the sweat-soaked seat. 
Catherine sits forward, freeing herself from Vaughan. She touches James's shoulder in a gesture of domestic affection. In the mirror, James can see the weals on her cheek and neck, the bruised mouth that deforms her nervous smile. 
EXT. BALLARD APT. BUILDING -- NIGHT 
The Lincoln pulls up at the Ballards' apartment building. James and Catherine get out and stand in the darkness beside the now-immaculate black car. Vaughan is still asleep in the back. James takes Catherine's arm to steady her, holding her bag in his hand. 
As they walk toward the entrance, Vaughan gets up and climbs unsteadily behind the steering wheel. Without looking back at James and Catherine, he starts the engine and quietly drives off. 
INT. BALLARD APT. BUILDING. ELEVATOR -- NIGHT 
In the elevator, James holds Catherine closely, lovingly. 
INT. BALLARD APT. BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
That night, James kneels over Catherine as she lies diagonally across the bed, her small feet resting on his pillow, one hand over her right breast. 
She watches him with a calm and affectionate gaze as he explores her body and bruises, feeling them gently with his fingers, lips and cheeks, tracing and interpreting the raw symbols that Vaughan's hands and mouth have left across her skin. 
INT. AIRPORT CONVENTION CENTER. AUTO SHOW -- DAY 
James and the crippled Gabrielle visit the annual auto show, which occupies the immense halls of the airport convention center. He watches appreciatively as she swings herself on her shackled legs among the hundreds of cars displayed on their stands. 
Gabrielle approaches the imposing Mercedes stand and, pivoting about on her heels, seems to take immense pleasure from these immaculate vehicles, placing her scarred hands on their paintwork, rolling her injured hips against them like an unpleasant cat. 
Knowing that Vaughan will not stop, will kill him, James presses himself against the concrete wall. The Lincoln swerves after him, its right-hand fender striking the rear wheel housing of the car James has just left. It swings away, ripping the open passenger door from its hinges. 
A column of exploding dust and torn newspaper rises into the air as it slides sideways across the access road. The Lincoln remounts the curb on the far side of the road, crushing a ten-yard section of the wooden palisade. 
James can see Vaughan flicking a look back, his hard eyes calculating whether or not he can make a second pass at him. The rear wheels regain their traction on the road surface and the car swings away on to the motorway above. 
James leans against the roof of the abandoned car. The passenger door has been crushed into the front fender, the deformed metal welded together by the impact. 
James retches suddenly and emptily. 
Shreds of torn paper eddy through the air around him, pasting themselves at various points against the crushed door panel and radiator hood. 
EXT. BALLARD APT. BALCONY -- DAY 
James sits on the balcony of his apartment, watching the sky. A single-engined airplane floats above the motorway, a glass dragonfly carried by the sun. It seems to hang motionless, the propeller rotating slowly like a toy aircraft's. The light pours from its wings in a ceaseless fountain. 
Below it, the traffic moves sluggishly along the crowded concrete lanes, the roofs of the vehicles forming a continuous carapace of polished cellulose. 
Suddenly, Catherine is behind him. She puts her hands on his shoulders and he turns to her as though in a dream, gestures toward the airplane. 
JAMES I thought that was you, up there. 
CATHERINE My last lesson's next week. (pause) James... my car... 
James can see now that Catherine is frightened. He takes her hand. 
JAMES What? Tell me. 
EXT. BALLARD APT. DRIVEWAY -- DAY 
Catherine's car sits in the driveway. The paintwork along the left-hand side has been marked in some minor collision. Catherine and James stand examining the mark soberly, archeologists faced with a problematic hieroglyph. 
CATHERINE I wasn't driving. I'd left the car in the parking-lot at the airport. Could it have been deliberate? 
JAMES One of your suitors? 
EXT. POLICE POUND. GATEHOUSE -- NIGHT 
James stands talking to the officer at the gatehouse window, holding Catherine's arm around his waist, pressing her fingers against the muscles of his stomach. 
JAMES I'd like to register a claim for the black 1963 Lincoln, the one that came in a couple of days ago. Is there a form I can fill out? 
POUND OFFICER There certainly is, but you'll have to come back between 7:30 and 4:30 to get one. What's your attachment to that thing? 
JAMES A close friend owned it. 
POUND OFFICER Well, it's got to be a total write- off. I don't see what you could possibly do with it. 
EXT. CROWDED RAIN-STREAKED ROADWAY -- SUNSET 
We are close on the huge, battle-scarred grill of Vaughan's Lincoln, now brought back to swaying, bellowing life. 
The restoration of the Lincoln is as Vaughan would have wanted it: just enough to get it running and nothing more, with ugly brown primer slapped on to the replaced panels, and whatever was cracked, scraped and crumpled still cracked, scraped and crumpled -- a mobile accident rolling on badly misaligned wheels. 
INT. VAUGHAN'S LINCOLN -- SUNSET 
We pull back to see James alone in the car. The road is crowded and manic; James is intense, hard, exhilarated, alert -- a hunter. The car is full of junk, pop cans, styrofoam containers, all suggesting that he has basically been living in the car for some time. 
James is searching for something among the lanes of traffic, threading the immense car in and out of the shifting holes that appear and disappear, driving with a fluid recklessness that is recognizably Vaughan's style. 
Suddenly, James becomes tense, focused: he has spotted what he has been looking for. 
EXT. CROWDED RAIN-STREAKED ROADWAY -- SUNSET 
Through the Lincoln's insect- and oil-smeared windshield we can see the unmistakable shape of Catherine's white sports car, itself winding its way aggressively through the braids of vehicles. 
The Lincoln lurches out on to the narrow emergency lane and takes off after Catherine's car, scraping the low concrete wall as it wallows from side to side, clipping the corner of a truck that has made the lane too narrow. 
INT. CATHERINE'S SPORTS CAR -- SUNSET 
In her mirrors, Catherine spots the Lincoln charging toward her along the emergency lane. Her demeanor is just as predatory as James's, and she does not hesitate to react. 
