CREATION 
Written by 
John Collee 
Note: 
Our story alternates between Past and Present 
"Present" means the fall of 1858 when Darwin was 49. The children are: Etty (15) George (14) Betty (11) Franky (10) Lenny (8) and Horace (6). 
"Past" means the summer of 1850, when Darwin was 41. The children are: Willy (11), Annie (9) Etty (6) George (5), Betty (3) Franky (2y) and baby Lenny. 
1   INT. DARK ROOM. THE PAST. DAY                                  1 
In darkness, chemicals wash over a copper plate. Strange silvery patterns evolve in the half-light. 
2   EXT. TERRA DEL FUEGO. DAY                                      2 
Our POV rotates downwards onto an irregular shape. 
This shape is grey-green and crammed with detail which emerges as we draw close - like a continent seen from outer space. 
A fruit fly lands on it and we now recognise the shape as a patch of lichen. 
A number of other fruit flies are grazing there. 
Wider. The lichen is on a rock. A   black lizard climbs over the horizon - stalking flies. 
A slow advance. A sudden rush. A fly is snapped up and mashed between toothless gums. 
The lizard is fixing its beady gaze on the next potential victim when... 
A shadow falls, the lizard tries to flee. A seabird grabs the lizard in its claws. Death is sudden and bloody. 
The bird settles to eat. 
Whizz...Thunk. A sharpened stick flies out of nowhere and impales the bird through its wing. 
The wounded bird falls between boulders, flapping helplessly. 
The rest of the flock take to their air, calling and wheeling as... 
A crowd of local savages come racing over the larger horizon of the rocks armed with primitive bows and arrows, spears, rocks and throwing-sticks... 
A child grabs the injured bird and kills it. 
An adult biffs the child on the head and steals the bird. 
The rest of the savages leap among the jagged rocks smiting each other, shouting and snarling among the whirling flock of birds. 
AND WE CUT TO 
3   EXT. COASTLINE. DAY                                           3 
A POV shot through a telescope: The whirling birds the strange half-animal forms of the savages. 
The whole scene is jerky, out of focus and inaudible at this great distance like a very old silent movie. 
CHARLES DARWIN (V.O.) In Terra del Fuego. The "land of fire" - A blighted and loveless country on the earths furthest rim - there lives a community of the dirtiest, the rudest, the least civilised beings you can imagine. 
The telescope focusses. The image becomes a little clearer 
4   EXT. CLIFF TOP. DAY                                           4 
The flock of boobies fly out to sea. 
The savages follow as far as the top of the cliffs, where they stop in sudden amazement, staring at a distant sailing ship. 
DARWIN (V.O.) They were all completely naked, the men as well as the women, with hair down to their bottoms. They spoke in grunts and they never washed their hands and faces! In many respects they resembled wild animals, except that animals are kinder to their children. 
A savage child makes a comment and gets biffed on the head again. 
11   INT. BUCKINGHAM PALACE. DAY                                   11 
Jemmy Buttons, looking very smart in velvet suit with silver buttons gives proper bow and shakes the Royal hand. 
Fuegia Basket curtsies. 
Queen Victoria remains out of shot but her attendants hand out presents off a purple silk cushion: A Bible for Fuegia and a telescope for Jemmy 
12   EXT. SHORE OF TIERRA DEL FUEGO. DAY.                          12 
Hairy savages reassemble on the cliff tops 
DARWIN Two years later. Captain Fitzroy and I took them back, in the company of a young Parson, hoping they would bring the other savages to god and to teach the others by example. 
The hairy savages squint from the cliffs to sea.... 
Another boat, the Beagle, has anchored in their bay. 
Captain Fitzroy is being rowed ashore with Darwin, plus a very young parson and the two young Fuegans, who are happy and agitated to see their homeland again. 
DARWIN And what do you think happened? 
13   INT. DAGUERROTYPE STUDIO. THE PAST. DAY.                      13 
Annie suspects there is a joke coming and cant help her mouth from twitching the corners. 
DARWIN (laughing) Correct! A complete and total failure! 
14   EXT. ROCKY CREVICES. TERRA DEL FUEGO. DAY                    14 
At the first sight of their countrymen, Jemmy and Fuegia rip off their clothes, drop the bible and the telescope, and run to join them, yelling like nut-cases. 
HAIRY SAVAGES YAAAAAH!! 
JEMMY/ FUEGIA Yaah!! Yahh!! 
The benighted young parson scrambles after them, collecting their discarded garments from among the rain-swept rocks. 
PARSON Jemmy! Fuegia 
The telescope is smashed. The Bible lies abandoned - the wind catching its soggy pages and whirling them off in the storm. 
15   INT. DAGUERROTYPE STUDIO. DAY.                               15 
Darwin still laughing, dabs his eyes 
ANNIE (laughing) Yaaah! 
The photographer disappears behind black curtains. 
TECHNICIAN Very still now. No more talking please 
Annie composes her face in an expression of angelic seriousness. 
A glass dome above her head glows snapdragon blue 
Close on Darwin watching his daughter, his eyes still damp with tears of laughter. 
Electricity hums. The strange blue light glows brighter, brighter... Brighter. 
The image of his daughter imprints on Darwin's memory. Just so. Forever. 
16   INT. DOWN HOUSE. DINING ROOM. THE PRESENT. EVENING.          16 
Servants are laying a table for dinner 
Gas lamps and the coal fire struggle to illuminate the lofty room. 
Mrs Davies the Welsh cook, bangs the dinner gong and shouts across the darkening garden outside. 
MR DAVIES (O.S.) Children! Franky! Horace! Dinner! 
Darwins attractive wife Emma adjusts the lamps and the boys run in, Franky aged 10 Lenny aged 8 Horace aged 6. 
CHILDREN Can we take Mr Hooker to the Chalk pits. Why can't he stay. Can we pick blackberries? 
EMMA I think he is just here to work 
17   EXT. DOWN HOUSE. DARWIN'S STUDY. THE PRESENT. NIGHT.          17 
A branch taps gently against the window pain, like an insistent guest demanding to be admitted. 
The coal fire burns low in the grate - wind in the chimney rattling the damper 
Firelight flickers on a collection of finches in a glass case, on a bird skeleton, on a fossil, and on numerous specimen bottles containing the fleshy parts of barnacles preserved in spirit-of-wine. 
Darwin sits immobile in his chair, regarding a locked, black lacquered steel trunk, on the floor under his work table. 
A voice speaks behind him. 
ANNIE Aren't you going to open it? 
He turns and sees her sitting on the day bed - the same little bright eyed girl from the daguerrotype studio. 
She's the same age as she was then and wearing the same checkered dress - though Darwin himself has aged ten years. 
DARWIN Maybe best if I just burn the whole lot. 
ANNIE (horrified) No papa - You can't. I'm in it. 
DARWIN Don't be absurd. Of course you're not. 
ANNIE The story of me when I was small. You showed me the pages. 
DARWIN Ah yes. 
ANNIE "The natural History of babies" ...Remember? 
DARWIN Of course I remember. 
He continues to stare at the shiny black box, his hand fluttering lightly - a nervous tic. 
Music seeps in - a soothing Chopin Nocturne and.... 
18   INT. DOWN HOUSE DRAWING ROOM.   THE PAST. NIGHT               18 
Darwin aged 40 - bright-eyed and inquisitive leans over to examine something, offering it his finger tip while making little tut tut tut noises. 
In the cot is a one-month old baby. 
DARWIN Annie. Annie. Annie. 
The piano music continuing over, as her fist closes round the end of his finger, then tries to pull it towards her mouth. 
He pulls it away from her and she frowns. 
He offers it again and the tug of war becomes a game. 
Baby Annie laughs. 
Darwin writes something in his notebook. Then tucks his pencil behind his ear and tries out various facial expressions - scowling, smiling - to gauge the baby's response. 
Emma turns on the piano-stool. 
EMMA (affectionately) What are you doing? 
DARWIN Just playing. 
She comes over and, leaning against him, reads from his notebook. 
EMMA "Six weeks: Gurgles. Holds tight to my finger. Tries to suck. Smiles at my smile" 
The baby lets out a long yodel of pleasure 
DARWIN I should add that she is musical. 
EMMA I hope you do not plan to treat all our children as little animacules to be included in your experiments. 
Emma, knowing her husband's ambivalence towards religion, casts him a slightly arch, amused look. Innes notices this, though he pretends not to. 
Hooker returns from the river, looking slightly damp, with the rod which he has managed to retrieve 
HOOKER Everyone's a bit wet. Sorry, but the fish are surely biting. More worms, boys, more worms. 
George is looking under stones 
HOOKER Try over there, Georgey, we've used all these ones up. 
They move off, joining Annie and the other in their hunt for crawling things. The air above them is heavy and sparkling with pollen. 
21   EXT. OCEAN. NIGHT                                            21 
A sailing ship sails past, trailing phosphorescence it its wake. 
DARWIN (V.O.) On the Beagle, quite, often we would drop a flask in the ocean and find it teeming with living particles which glowed in the night 
22   INT. SHIP'S CABIN. NIGHT                                     22 
The figure in silhouette of young Darwin inspects a flask of sea water, glowing in the darkness. 
He takes a few drops on a watch glass and places them on the illuminated stage of his microscope. 
Under the microscope, against a black background, millions of tiny swimming animals. 
23   EXT. BY THE RIVER BANK. THE PAST. DAY                        23 
Cut to the air above the picnickers - alive with glittering particles - against the dark trees behind. 
DARWIN ....so much beauty for so little purpose. 
EMMA Surely not without purpose. They were helping to light the ship's way were they not. 
Darwin smiles at the idea, turns to Innes 
DARWIN Are you familiar with the works of Thomas Malthus, Mr Innes?. 
INNES He married his first cousin didn't he? 
EMMA So did Charles.... So did I. 
INNES Oh, I was not at all suggesting.... 
Emma waves it away. Just teasing 
DARWIN He made the point that if every trout, say, has a hundred offspring And so on and so on through the generations. Then the planet would be knee deep in trout in just a few decades. 
INNES Of course most of the eggs are destroyed and eaten so the numbers remain stable. That is the beauty of God's plan. 
Emma gives Darwin a "So there" look and hands Innes a sandwich. 
EMMA Cheese and cucumber 
INNES Thank-you 
Somewhere in the woods, Annie has found a treasure trove of worms and slugs. 
ANNIE (O.S. DISTANT) Over here ....there are millions! 
DARWIN It doesn't strike you as an exceedingly wasteful plan - these myriad lives created only to be immediately extinguished. 
EMMA (a gentle warning) Charles.... 
INNES (confidently) They are providing food for others. 
DARWIN You think they are happy about it? 
INNES Happy? 
Close up on a writing worm. Hooker is instructing George how to put a worm on a hook. 
HOOKER Through his bottom and up though his mouth - perfect 
BRODIE Once. But he went to Australia and I missed my chance. 
Willy passes the door, his hair in need of brushing. 
BRODIE Master William. Hairbrush. 
William comes in. Brodie brushes the back of his hair. 
WILLY Ow. Ow! 
BRODIE Well what do you expect. It is a birds nest. 
WILLY Papa says God doesn't care if we are neat. 
BRODIE (brushing) Your father is a very wize man but has a small understanding of religion. No-one can read what goes down in Gods great book of accounts. ....Fingernails. 
Willy presents them for checking. 
BRODIE You can go. 
30   INT. HALLWAY. THE PAST. DAY.                                  30 
The children come racing and swinging and clattering down the stairs. 
Emma, holding the baby in one arm, steers a tricycle out of the way, clearing a path to the door 
EMMA Mrs Davies, Will you ask Jenny to wear a bonnet. I would not like people to think her fast. 
George aged 5 tugs at her skirt 
WILLY Can I bring my mouse for a blessing? 
EMMA What mouse? 
George (5) pulls it out from his pocket. Its dead, muddy and bloody 
GEORGE Elsie caught it in the barn. We need to pray for his soul 
EMMA Mice don't have souls. Leave it on the window sill. Everyone come now or we shall be late. 
31   EXT. LANEWAY. DOWN HOUSE. THE PAST. DAY                       31 
Pealing of church bells 
Mist rises from the ploughed fields and hangs among the ancient oaks. 
A little procession heads down the lane. The Darwins - Charles and Emma - plus their servants and children (older now, for we have flipped into the present), all in their Sunday best. 
The trees are bare. Their breath condenses as they walk. 
32   EXT. VILLAGE SQUARE. THE PRESENT. DAY                         32 
The ancient flint church stands in the centre of Downe (sic) village, opposite the George and Dragon pub. 
A massive and venerable Yew tree casts its shade over a number of gravestones one of them inscribed "to Mary Darwin born Sept 1842 died Oct 1842." 
Beyond the church fence, villagers greet each other before heading inside. The great majority of the village have turned out, from Squire Lubbock through the tradesmen and domestic servants from the village to the clodhoppers (farm labourers) in their colored smocks. 
Rev Innes is welcoming his large flock at the gate. 
EMMA Reverend Innes. 
INNES (smiling) Ma'am. Welcome. Welcome 
Then his eye moves on to Charles Darwin and his smile falters, his expression turning slightly cold. 
Darwin tips his hat rather stiffly and walks away, through the throng of parishioners, leaving his family to file into the church without him. 
33   EXT. WOODLAND. PRESENT. DAY                                  33 
Darwin walks across the meadow and into the woods. 
A flock of crows take flight from the rookery in the bare trees overhead. 
FRANKY ....and he wouldn't let you leave unless you agreed to marry his fattest daughter. 
HOOKER Yes. (Conspiratorial) ....but you are never to tell my wife that! 
EMMA Children leave Mr Hooker alone now. I'm sure he has more important things to discuss. 
HOOKER Not really, but I think Mr Huxley does.... 
Huxley has seen Darwin, washing his hands by the "skeletonizing shed". 
Huxley hangs back to introduce himself as Hooker steers Emma off into the house. 
HOOKER I have my heart set on a cup of tea and one of Mrs Davies' scones. 
Emma looks anxiously after Huxley but allows herself to be gently side-lined. 
37   INT. KITCHEN. THE PRESENT. DAY .                             37 
Emma is by the kitchen window, rearranging tea things on a tray. 
The sky outside is dark and lowering. 
Through the window she can see Darwin heading off down the sand walk - head bowed, walking stick in hand - deep in conversation with Huxley. 
She drops a tea-cup which smashes on the stone floor. 
MRS DAVIES I'll do that ma'am. Please. Let me do it. 
38   EXT. DOWN HOUSE. THE SAND WALK. THE PRESENT. DAY.            38 
The Sand-walk is a gravel walking path between the garden and the fields, flanked by mature oaks and ancient willows. 
HUXLEY We're reforming the Linnean. The committee will comprise myself, Lyell, Huxley...yourself of course if you are willing. 
Darwin grunts noncommittally. The Crunch crunch of their feet is punctuated by the regular stomp of his metal-shod walking stick. 
HUXLEY We intend to reclaim science as a profession - wrest it away from the country parsons and beetle- collectors. Your book will be our rallying point. 
DARWIN. You know it is not yet any fit state to publish. 
HUXLEY I have read your detailed abstract. The argument is complete and utterly compelling. All that is lacking is the detail and we know you have that in abundance. Your barnacle work has established you as the pre- eminent authority on marine life. 
DARWIN. On one small mollusc! 
HOOKER In which the whole story of creation can be read. Do not pretend to me that was not your intention. 
DARWIN. Honestly.... 
HUXLEY A "family tree" of barnacles stretching back 300 million years to the time it was a free swimming prawn!. 
DARWIN. There are many gaps. 
HOOKER Of course with gaps! But that is the very point. If we but had the complete fossil record we could trace all life back to one speck of protoplasm. The branching of forms in ever more complex succession...until. 
DARWIN. Yes yes, but one cannot infer too much. 
HOOKER Mr Darwin. Either you are being disingenuous or you do not fully understand you own accomplishment. You have killed God. 
DARWIN. Mr Huxley 
HUXLEY ....and good riddance to the bearded malicious old bugger! 
DARWIN (interrupts) Please I must beg of you.... 
HUXLEY No. I must beg of you sir. Joseph Hooker we know is too nice a chap to do it. You are a fine and brilliant man who hates to give offence - an admirable quality - wish I had it myself. But what do we believe? What do we know to be true. Will you light the way or leave us all to flounder in the mire for another decade. 
He stops and lowers himself onto a bench, teeth clenched. 
HOOKER Are you alright? 
DARWIN. A touch of indigestion. It will pass. 
Its clearly worse than that, but Huxley, refusing to be distracted, blithely ignores it and sits down beside him til the worst of it passes. 
DARWIN What are you doing, Annie? 
ANNIE I'm making you beautiful. 
DARWIN I have to work. 
Though the soft touch of her little hands is almost too real for him to bear and he closes his eyes 
ANNIE Breath in, papa. Breathe out. Now Tell me a story. 
DARWIN I have no time.... 
ANNIE About Jenny. Please? 
The sound of a wave breaking. Wind stirs Darwin's hair 
He opens his eyes and he is .... 
42   EXT. ENGLISH BEACHSIDE. THE PAST DAY                          42 
Sitting with Annie ten years ago on an English pebble beach. 
She has collected a pile of shells and is arranging them in "families". 
The dialogue is continuous 
DARWIN Why do you always ask for Jenny? Its so sad. 
ANNIE That's why I like it. It makes me cry. 
She looks up from her shells and smiles winningly. 
Darwin looks out to sea, at the bright crashing line of surf, and begins the familiar, much-told tale: 
DARWIN Once apon a time there was a family of Orang-u-tangs living in the jungles of darkest Borneo 
43   EXT. JUNGLES OF BORNEO. DAY                                  43 
Our POV moves between dark tropical trees to find a group of Orangutans flopping around grooming each other. 
As with the land of the Fuegan savages, there is something slightly artificial about these jungles, as though the trees really belong in Kew gardens, and the naked jungle warriors, whom we now see stalking through them, are on loan from the museum of mankind. 
DARWIN Their eldest daughter was the most loving, caring and trusting Orang of all. 
We follow a young nimble female, swinging through the trees, revelling in her own gymnastic ability, until she stops - hearing something: the sound of human speech. 
DARWIN But these qualities in themselves cannot guarantee an ape's survival. Sometimes, quite the reverse. 
Native hunters are creeping through the undergrowth 
A warning screech from one of the Orang-u-tangs posted as lookouts. 
Most of the apes flee up into the canopy. Jenny stays where she is, fascinated, just a moment longer than is prudent. 
DARWIN When she realized her danger it was too late. 
As she turns to flee a weighted net is thrown on top of her. The hunters pounce. 
DARWIN They put her in a bag and carried her off.... 
ANNIE " much to her loving parent's sorrow." 
DARWIN Exactly. 
The family screech and hoot, anguished, as the hunters head back off through the trees. 
44   EXT. MARKET-PLACE. DAY                                        44 
Exotic coins and bank-notes pass from hand to hand: from the tribal chief to the sultan, in his overlarge turban, from the sultan to the trader in his solar topee and stained white suit. 
DARWIN The hunters sold her the to the Sultan who promptly sold her to a visiting Englishman who packed her aboard a sailing ship and brought her to London zoo. 
Jenny is taken out of a bamboo cage and put into a metal cage. 
Jenny laughs waves a hand as if to say: "Play, if it amuses you. I'm must kidding." 
47   EXT. THE BEACH. THE PAST. DAY                                 47 
The salt wind. The dazzling light. The slow pulse of the surf. 
Darwin has paused in his narrative. 
ANNIE Go on papa. 
DARWIN Go on what. 
ANNIE The bit where she gets sick and dies. 
DARWIN No. Why do you want to hear that bit? 
ANNIE I just like it. It makes me cry. 
Darwin smiles, his own eyes filling with tears. 
Then a door opens, softly, in the sky. 
48   INT. THE STUDY. THE PRESENT. NIGHT                            48 
It opens wider to reveal Emma's elegant profile, framed against the gaslight of the hallway. 
Her POV: the black box is unlocked and open, its contents strewn around the floor at darwins feet. 
Darwin is sitting on the floor of the study holding in his had a magazine, published by the Society for the useful Distribution of Knowledge, with a picture of Jenny on the cover 
EMMA Are you coming to bed? 
DARWIN Presently. 
He doesn't move. She comes in 
EMMA What did Huxley want? 
DARWIN He thinks I should write it and be done with it. He feels it is a question of moral courage ...or the lack of it. 
EMMA You did not tell him about your health. 
DARWIN His theory is that I am making myself ill by holding back. That I should lance the boil. Plunge in and hang the consequences. 
EMMA Thank the Lord he is not a surgeon. 
Darwin takes a breath and plunges in himself: 
DARWIN I've concluded he is right. Bite the gag. Speed is everything. It will all be over in a matter of months. 
Emma is horrified. 
EMMA It is not mere months that concern me Charles. Nor even years or decades... 
Its said quietly but with genuine anguish. To Emma it is as though her life partner has announced he's contemplating suicide. 
EMMA Do you really care   so little for your immortal soul   - for the knowledge that you   and I may never be together,   in all of eternity. 
DARWIN (softly) You know that what concerns you concerns me also. What do think has held me in limbo all these years. 
Emma has. They both know it. She turns abruptly from the door and hurries away. 
49   INT. BEDROOM. THE PRESENT. NIGHT.                            49 
Emma has been crying. She lies in bed pretending to sleep. 
Darwin gets into bed behind her. He wants desperately to reach out a hand to touch her, to comfort her, but he cannot do it for fear of weakening his own fragile resolve. 
DARWIN Dearest Emma. You know This is not a decision made lightly.... 
50   INT. DARWINS STUDY. THE PRESENT. DAWN                        50 
In the dawn light, Darwin is writing a letter to his wife. 
The church beadle comes out behind him. 
BEADLE Are you all right, sir? 
DARWIN Never better. Thank-you. 
He heads off up the gravel path 
55   INT WOODLANDS. THE PRESENT. DAY                               55 
The faint and Distant sound of church singing filters through the misty woods. The black wet trunks of trees catch the sunlight. 
Frosty dew highlights Mistletoe and holly and dead bracken and the sudden red flash of a robin. 
Darwin cuts a strange dark angular figure, walking along the narrow track a single step at a time. 
He pauses breathing, and listens. 
His quick eye catches the robin seizing a worm. 
Further on. A pheasant breaks cover. A hare stands upright in a clearing then bounds away. 
Darwin looks down and takes another step, placing his feet carefully, silently so as not to disturb the wildlife. 
Cut to a different pair of much newer shoes in exactly the same spot. 
56   INT. WOODLANDS. THE PAST. DAY                                 56 
Darwin is ten years younger, pacing in the same, measured way through summer woodland. 
There's a noise behind him and he turns, finger to his lips for silence. 
Annie turns away from him and passes the sign down the line of children: Etty, George, Betty and Franky, in decreasing order of height. 
ANNIE Shh 
FRANKY (to ANNIE) What are we looking at? 
The question comes back up the line 
DARWIN A weasel. 
The children bunch up to gaze on a strange and wonderful sight. 
In a little sun-dappled clearing a weasel is turning loop the loops in a strange spiralling dance for the benefit of... 
...a young rabbit, which sits utterly hypnotized by the performance. 
At first its strange and amusing, then the dance becomes more sinister. The weasel advancing by tiny increments as it tumbles in the air, finally 
ANNIE NO! 
The weasel seizes the bunny rabbit by the back of the neck and shakes it savagely. 
The rabbit shrieks and spasms. 
Annie is beside herself, drumming the ground with her feet in a fever of fear and pity. 
The rabbit is still in its dearth throes, its neck broken, its back legs still jerking 
ANNIE No! No! Stop it. Daddy. Stop it. Make it stop. 
The rabbit is already dead. 
DARWIN Annie, Annie, Annie. 
He sinks to his knees, heedless of the mud on his Sunday best worsted, embracing her. 
The others are shocked and amazed by the rabbits death, but none of them distressed as Annie. They are country children and death is an everyday event 
GEORGE The chickens do that too when cookie kills them 
ANNIE (tearful furious) Chickens are different! (To her father) (MORE) 
DARWIN We might find oysters and sponges imprinted in it, or dinosaurs if we were lucky... 
GEORGE What's a dinosaur? 
ETTY Professor Owen invented them. 
DARWIN They are the giant lizards which lived on earth before there were any humans. 
BETTY But they weren't real 
DARWIN Of course they are, Betty. Did I never tell you of the skeletons I found in South America (to Etty) Do you remember Mr Martell? 
ETTY No. 
Annie arrives, hopping nimbly over the rocks still in her wet swimsuit 
ANNIE Yes you do. When he came to tea and showed us drawings of his Iguanodon. And George burnt his fingers roasting chestnuts. 
ETTY Oh yes. 
ANNIE She doesn't remember. 
DARWIN You should have your clothes on Annie. You are quite blue. 
ANNIE Savages don't swear clothes. 
She runs to the top of a great fallen rock, spreads her arms out, and yells to the sky. 
ANNIE I'm a Fuegan. 
DARWIN Well don't fall and hurt yourself. Your mother would never forgive me. 
Annie gives a shout and disappears head over heels. 
DARWIN Annie! 
ANNIE I've found one! 
In the rubble at the base of the rocks she has landed, unhurt and quite by accident on a perfect specimen of a fossilized trilobite. 
60   INT. DARWIN'S STUDY. THE PRESENT. DAY                        60 
The black box lies open with all its secrets strewn around the office. 
Stacks of paper - a stack for every chapter - are held down with paperweights - a fossil, a skull, a specimen bottle. 
Darwin squares a stack of blank paper between his hands, then reaches for his pen. 
61   INT. VILLAGE SCHOOL. THE PAST . DAY.                         61 
Annie reaches for her pen. 
Reverend Innes is giving the children their writing lessons, according to "Mulhauser's technique" 
INNES First positions. 
The children assume the position as if in some militaristic drill. 
INNES Second positions. 
Grips are adjusted, pens are dipped. 
INNES Assume the distance. 
The children lean back fractionally, so their elbows are just back from the edge of the desk. 
INNES .....and begin. 
The Children start to copy the sentence which Innes has written on the blackboard. 
Annie reads the sentence and hesitates: "And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested" 
62   INT DARWIN'S STUDY. DAY.                                    62 
DARWIN (his arm is stuck) In his rights to torture our children for expressing the plain truth. 
Brodie appears and Darwin ushers Annie towards her 
DARWIN                           EMMA ...Please take her to           It is not the truth as he kitchen.                        sees it 
DARWIN Well damn how he sees it. Damn the pair of them and all their works 
EMMA Charles listen to yourself. Listen 
Blocking his path as he heads for the door. Her palm flat on his lapel, soothing, reasoning with him 
DARWIN Emma please. I will not have Innes tell me what I can and cannot tell my children. 
EMMA It is what I have told them every night at bedtime. It is the instruction my aunt and your brother and most of our family live by. It is what all of the village believe ...or try to. Charles. Must our children be revolutionaries at nine years of age. Write to him with your concerns - our concerns - about the manner of the punishment but please do not set yourself against him. Think of my feelings on this. I beg you. 
Finally his outrage has spent itself, neutralized by her gentle persistence and the deep affection he holds for her. 
DARWIN You're right of course.... I'm sorry. 
He embraces her. 
Emma is reassured, she cannot see the conflict written all over Darwins face. 
65   INT. STUDY. DAY. (THE PRESENT)                                65 
The conflicted expression has hardened, the furrows in Darwin's brow etched deeper, as he dips his pen and begins the second chapter. 
From the floor below we can hear Emma practising a piece of music on the piano - Chopin's revolutionary etude: a rippling, brooding arpeggio running up and down the keyboard, redolent of an angry sea. 
Darwin's pen scratches doggedly over the paper. 
66   INT. BEDROOM. NIGHT.                                          66 
In the bedroom, in his nightgown, Darwin scrubs the ink stains off his fingers with a pumice stone. 
Emma passes behind him, preparing for bed. He glances at her in the mirror 
DARWIN You're still angry with me. 
EMMA No. Why? 
DARWIN I can always tell by your playing. 
EMMA Not angry. I'm sad. 
67   INT. DARWIN'S STUDY. THE PRESENT. DAY                         67 
Darwin sits at his desk, writing and editing, his hand clamped on the pen. 
A voice speaks from nowhere 
ANNIE Talk to her. 
DARWIN (still writing) And say what? She does not want to hear it. 
ANNIE Then write to her. 
DARWIN (irritably) That is what I am doing Annie, I am writing all of it. 
68   EXT. DARWIN'S STUDY. DAY                                    68 
Emma, passing the open door glimpses Darwin talking angrily to himself as he writes. 
DARWIN ....and then she can read it, and we can all be free of this! Now, please, Annie no more interruptions! 
69   EXT. GARDEN. DAWN                                           69 
The music continues, louder. 
A frosty coating of dew covers the lawn. 
Footprints lead to a strange wooden tower in the garden. Parslow stands outside, shivering in the grey morning light. 
Darwin trying, to slip in discreetly is spied by a group of locals who hail him and gather around him, wedging him into a corner with their overloud loud talk and laughter. 
THATCHER Mr Darwin! Mr Darwin! I was explaining to Mr Goodman here your interest in breeding. Mr Darwin is our foremost scholar in the village. 
DARWIN No. No I am but one of many. There is Squire Lubbock, and the reverend Innes 
The Thatcher waves them away as lesser talents. 
THATCHER ....he is also a noted explorer, the author of many books.. 
DARWIN ...which no-one has read. 
THATCHER ...a fellow of the Royal society and a prodigious expert on clams...oysters? 
DARWIN Barnacles. 
THATCHER Mr Goodman, now, is the foremost pigeon fancier in all the southern counties. Kent champion two years running. I swear he can give you any beak or plumage in four generations. Head and tail in five. 
DARWIN How do you do it? 
GOOODMAN By breeding cousin with cousin. I find it the fastest way to alter the strain - provided you do not weaken it in other ways. 
Darwin takes a slug of whiskey 
93   INT. DARWIN'S STUDY.   THE PRESENT. NIGHT                     93 
He is drinking in his office. 
The clock strikes twelve. The page in front of him remains stubbornly blank 
Darwin is rising from his desk when he sees something move. 
In one of the bottles on his desk, a fleshy marine specimen seems to have come to life. 
It writhes blindly in its bottle of formalin, making a sound like a baby crying. 
Darwin, recoiling in horror, pushes himself back from his desk. The castors on his chair trundle back from his desk. 
Behind him he hears a tapping and turns to see that all the birds in his big glass display case of Galapagos finches have started to beat against the inside the crowded glass case. They flutter, frenzied, tapping with their beaks on the inside of the glass, which shatters as... 
One by one the bottled specimens explode, discharging their contents onto the floor. 
A lamp falls over. The room is filled with birds the floor awash with formalin and broken glass. 
The Study seems to tilt like the cabin of a ship in a storm and. 
94   INT. DARWIN'S BEDROOM. THE PRESENT. DAWN                     94 
Darwin wakes from the nightmare asleep at his desk, the whiskey bottle a quarter empty, ink on his hands and his shirt cuffs 
He gets up and puts on his shoes. 
95   INT. DOWN HOUSE. DRAWING ROOM. THE PRESENT. DAWN .           95 
The scullery maid, lighting the fire, looks round and sees Darwin. 
He walks past her without a word and heads out into the garden. 
96   EXT. DOWN HOUSE GARDEN. THE PRESENT. DAWN                    96 
Darwin heads across the lawn, takes a key from his belt and opens the door of the skeletonizing shed. 
97   INT. SKELETONIZING SHED. THE PRESENT. DAWN                   97 
In the grey light he takes in the corpses of doves from the dovecote. 
Some have been skinned, their pelts curing on frames, their carcasses steeping in a buckets chemicals which remove the flesh from the bones. 
Previously he regarded this place as a sort of laboratory. Now it seems a place of horror. 
The door opens behind him. Its Parslow. 
DARWIN Get rid of them. 
Upstairs, Servants are packing for a journey. 
The vigorous Darwin of the past moves swiftly from room to room, gathering his things. Hat and gloves, books, spectacles, papers. 
Emma, eight months pregnant, tries to keep up with him 
EMMA Charles, please reconsider 
CHARLES Emma it is weeks now, months. She is getting worse, not better. 
EMMA Then I am coming with you. 
DARWIN You cannot come. How can you possibly come in your condition. 
EMMA It is not so far. 
DARWIN It is two days by coach and train. Who will look after the others. 
EMMA I do not care for the others. I care for Annie! 
Etty, coming apon then unexpectedly, hears this and is instantly heartbroken. 
EMMA is devastated by the slip but is presently too overwrought to retract it. 
DARWIN Leave us please, Etty. 
Parslow has gathered up Annie from her room and is carrying her downstairs, pale and sickly-looking, with Brodie fussing behind. 
BRODIE Make sure she is tucked in. Watch her shawl 
ANNIE I don't need to go. 
At the bottom of the stairs, Darwin takes Annie from Parslow's arms 
DARWIN The coach is outside. I will carry her from here. 
EMMA Annie... 
ANNIE Mama... 
She clasps Emma's hand. Darwin keeps heading for the door. Emma holds fast to Annies hand and follows behind 
DARWIN You will see Mamma when you are better. Say goodbye now. 
Parslow holds the door open. The coach is at the Gate. Emma stops on the threshold, unable to let go her daughters hand and suddenly deeply convinced that she is making a mistake here. 
EMMA Wait. I am coming with you 
DARWIN Please, Emma 
EMMA Wait there. 
She hurries back inside. Darwin makes a decision and heads for the coach. 
105   EXT. DOWN HOUSE. DAY                                           105 
Down the patch and through the open gate with the servants following. 
DARWIN Get aboard. Brodie 
ANNIE (shouts back) Mama! 
The garden gate clangs shut behind them. 
106   INT. DOWN HOUSE STAIRWELL/ UPPER HALLWAY. THE PAST. DAY        106 
Emma looks out of the upstairs window, realizes they plan to leave without her and hurries downstairs again. 
107   INT. COACH. THE PAST. DAY                                      107 
Charles bundles Annie inside. 
DARWIN (to the coachman) Go. Go. 
Darwin untucks his shirt. Gully prods at Darwin's belly. Darwin winces. 
DR GULLY Pulse hectic, togue furred, liver tender and enlarged. 
Darwin's ink stained fingers speak volumes. 
DR GULLY No doubt you have been exercising your brain every hour that God gave you. 
DARWIN I was persuaded to write book. 
DR GULLY Madness there are far too many of those already. Are you Sleeping? 
DARWIN Poorly. 
DR GULLY I suppose never taking the 50C dilution of Chelidonium. 
DARWIN (shakes his head) I had the gardener build a water tower. It no longer has any effect. 
GULLY Of course not. Your gardener is not a hydrotherapist. What on earth possessed you ? 
DARWIN I feared I was dying. 
DR GULLY Oh come come come. We shall not have that talk here. 
Half turning to his assistant, who is staking notes. 
GULLY A smart spinal scrub. Cold douche daily at 7.00. Wrapping in towels and sweating by the lamp. 
Then, to Darwin: 
DR GULLY No red meat, no reading, no mental agitation of any kind. We shall soon have you right old friend, we shall have you right. 
114   INT. TREATMENT ROOMS. DAY                                    114 
Music over: 
Darwin sits in a deep metal bath while one of Gully's assistants scrubs his spine with a loofah. 
115   INT. DOUCHE. DAY                                             115 
Darwin stands in a shaft of light, grabbing onto the hand rails as the icy flood continues to crash down on his shoulders, splintering and fracturing in the shaft of light. 
116   INT. TREATMENT ROOMS. DAY                                    116 
Two assistants bind him tight in damp linen sheets, til he is immobilised like a cocoon, with his legs together and his hands by his side. 
They pick him up and lie him down, quite rigid beside another pod like creature, similarly swaddled, with a red face and a beard. 
BEARDED STRANGER Mr Darwin is it? 
Darwin nods, unable to turn his head, or make any gesture with his hands. 
The stranger continues to talk to him nonetheless. 
BEARDED STRANGE William Carter of Southampton. I read your Beagle account many years ago. Former naval man myself. What brings you here? Myself, a Bilious fever with blood per rectum, but I have every faith in Gully. The man is a miracle worker. 
117   INT. TREATMENT ROOM. DAY                                    117 
Darwin sits with a blanket draped over his shoulders, under the merciless glare of a heat lamp. 
Sweat pours off him and forms puddles at his feet. 
118   EXT. TERRACE. DAY.                                          118 
A bright sunny day. Darwin, looking weak but purged, sits on the terrace, sipping a glass of foul-tasting mineral water and looking out over the stone houses, fields and valleys of Malvern. 
Gully sits with him, interviewing him. 
GULLY What action do you most associate with the symptoms. Eating? Strong emotion? Strenuous Excercise? 
DARWIN Does the exercise of memory count as an action. 
GULLY Memory of what. 
Mr St John' face hardens. 
MRS ST JOHN (coldly) I'm a professional lady Mr Darwin. I don't do party tricks. 
DARWIN I am a professional man. And I asking for no more than I ask of all my colleagues - a demonstration of competence. 
MRS ST JOHN It is you who are here to be tested, Sir, not me. 
DARWIN Then I am sorry to have wasted your time. 
He puts his jacket back on and heads for the door. 
121   INT. HALLWAY. NIGHT.                                       121 
Mrs St John follows him. As he reaches for the doorhandle, and opens it, she says: 
MRS ST JOHN She's with you, you know that. 
Darwin turns. 
MRS ST JOHN Your little girl. I saw her from the window standing at the top of the steps. 
DARWIN How dare you. 
MRS ST JOHN Pardon? 
DARWIN ...prey on people's grief like this. 
MRS ST JOHN I have done no such thing. 
DARWIN (furious) Do you take me for an idiot? Clearly Gully has appraised you of my history. 
MRS ST JOHN I beg to inform you he did no such thing! 
DARWIN It is chicanery of the very lowest order and I despise it utterly! 
MRS ST JOHN Get out. 
122   EXT. THE HOUSE. DAY                                           122 
Darwin steps outside and she slams the door on him. Darwin continues to rant at the closed door, standing in the pouring rain without his umbrella. 
He gets to the top of the steps, and looks around, trying to get his bearings. 
In a pool of lamp-light at the far end of the street a figure stands watching him. 
Darwin squints at her through the rain, which is falling harder now. 
The figure is Annie. 
She looks at him crossly, then heads off up a cobbled side- street. 
Darwin follows. 
123   EXT. MALVERN. SIDE STREETS. VARIOUS. NIGHT                    123 
Darwin pursues his daughter up narrow cobbled lanes. 
DARWIN Annie. Annie! 
The rain is getting heavier, turning the gutters into rivers. 
Water overflows the drains and culverts and rushes over the cobbles, making them slick and treacherous. 
Darwin hurries down darkened lanes and alleys, the sound of rushing water echoing all around, the little girl always ahead of him. 
A DRUNK MAN in oilskins comes barreling past him, head down, cursing the weather. 
A child's ball goes floating downhill in the current. 
Darwin loses Annie, then he sees her again, at the top of a steep flight of stone steps. 
Darwin, drenched chases after her. 
The older Darwin, hesitates, chest pounding, outside the door of number 14, then unlocks it as... 
131   INT. GUESTHOUSE. THE PAST. DAY                              131 
The younger Darwin bursts into room 14 and takes in the scene. 
The room is full if light. A maid is bundling soiled sheets. Brodie is there with a harrassed-looking Dr Gully. 
They turn as he enters. 
Annie lies on the bed between them, her breathing fast and shallow. She manages a weak smile. 
DARWIN Is she any better? Does she want for anything? 
Gully stands up from the bed. His expression tells us hope is fading. Annie's pale sunken cheeks and caked lips confirm it. 
Darwin kneels by her bedside, clasps her little hand is his own. 
DARWIN Darling Annie. I am here now. 
Annie lets out a reedy whine of appreciation and strokes his lapel "making him beautiful" 
Brodie cannot bear it and bursts into tears. 
132   INT. ROOM 14. THE PAST NIGHT.                               132 
Annie sleeps. 
Darwin sits up, writing to Emma, crying as he writes. 
DARWIN (V.O.) Dearest Emma. I think it best for you to know how every hour passes. It's a relief for me to tell you. Whilst writing to you I can cry tranquilly. 
133   INT. ROOM 14. THE PAST DAY.                                  133 
A local surgeon lays out various instruments, including a glass syringe with a long needle. 
Annie struggles and whimpers. Brodie comforts her 
DARWIN (V.O.) Mr Coates the Surgeon came today to draw off Annie's water. This did not hurt her, but she struggled with surprising strength against being uncovered. 
BRODIE There there. It will all soon be over. 
134   EXT. CHURCH AT MALVERN. ENTRANCE. DAY                        134 
Darwin enters through the heavy stone entrance. 
135   INT. THE CHURCH AT MALVERN. DAY                              135 
The relatives of the sick, stand or sit among the pews, arriving, praying, departing 
Darwin kneels awkwardly in front of the altar, clasps his hands together and prays: 
DARWIN Save her. I will believe whatever. Forever. Please save her 
He looks up at the image of Christ on the cross, hoping against all reason, for some sense of epiphany. 
It's not working. He feels nothing embarrassment at the cheapness of the gesture. 
136   INT GUEST HOUSE. ROOM 14.   THE PAST .NIGHT                  136 
Darwin sits alone with Annie who is babbling incoherently. He can't make out anything she says 
DARWIN (V.O.) Our dear child has taken a turn for the worse. She talked a great deal but we could seldom make out anything. Much of what she says we cannot make out from the roughness of her poor mouth. 
137   INT. GUEST HOUSE. ROOM 14 NIGHT                             137 
Dr Gully leaves, the surgeon arrives. The maids squeeze between the two medical men, bundling sheets 
DARWIN (V.O.) Today she vomited rather much again. Dr Coates has been to draw off more water. 
Brodie and the maid roll Annie on her side and cut off the tail of her shirt, then roll her on her back again, with a pillow between her two bony knees. 
DARWIN Is that good, my lovely 
She doesn't notice the figure of Darwin until he appears, like a ghost, reflected in the polished wood of the piano. 
She turns with a start and sees him, still in his dripping coat, hair plastered over his brow 
DARWIN Sorry. I startled you. 
EMMA Take your coat off by the fire there. What time is it? 
Darwin stays where he is, dripping on the carpet 
DARWIN We need to talk. I need to talk to you. 
EMMA Of course, but dry your hair. I shall call for a towel. 
As she moves to the bell-pull he grabs her wrist 
DARWIN I went back to Worcester Road. I saw Annie. 
EMMA Charles. No. 
DARWIN Let me tell you. 
EMMA I don't want to hear it. This must stop. 
DARWIN You don't understand. 
EMMA I do! Do you think me deaf and blind. You have lived with her and spoken with her every day since she died. 
Parslow comes in with firewood then sees Emma yelling at darwin and hurriedly retreats, spilling logs in the hallway. 
EMMA She is more real to you than I am. She's dead Charles. 
DARWIN I know that. 
EMMA Then what is wrong with you that even our poor daughter cannot be left in her grave but you would.... 
DARWIN I know she is dead. I know it. It is you who will not accept the fact, preferring to think of her in heaven. 
This again! The unspoken argument which has been brewing for a decade, never before expressed so bluntly. Emma heads for the door 
EMMA Get away from me! 
She heads into the hallway, he follows her ranting 
DARWIN Snowy white wings and dancing with the angels. Is that your idea of honesty. 
Servants scramble out of sight and out of earshot 
EMMA Why did you come back. I will not hear this! 
Emma picks up her skirts and hurries up the stairs. Darwin pursues her. 
On the landing, Betty and Horace, wide eyed and terrified are bundled into the nursery by Brodie as Charles thunders up the stair. 
DARWIN You have to Emma, everything these was between us is gone. The boat is wrecked and sunk now. We have to hold to something else. 
EMMA To what. Your ghosts? Your theories? What Charles. 
CHARLES To the truth of what we know it. 
She slams the bedroom door on him and bolts it. 
DARWIN Open this door Emma. The truth, how wonderful and extraordinary our daughter was.... 
EMMA (through the door) I know that. I do not need you to say it. Of course I know. 
Charles throws his shoulder to the door and bursts through it. Emma screams 
CHARLES But free of the fantasy, free of the rest, the silly vain hope that we will be reunited in heaven and the nagging unspoken belief that I killed her! 
In the lower hallway all the servants hear this 
In the nursery, Brodie, aghast, covers the childrens ears 
