Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon 
by 
Wang Hui Ling, James Schamus, Tsai Kuo Jung 
based on the novel by 
Wang Du Lu 
EXT. YUAN COMPOUND - DAY 
Security men and porters are loading wagons for a convoy. As they work, we see across the lake a lone horseman entering the village.  One of the men recognizes him. 
WORKER Master Li is here! 
ANGLE ON: Li Mu Bai, thirties, powerful and handsome. 
In the background, old Aunt Wu, at the sight of Li Mu Bai, drops her parcels and runs excitedly into the building. 
INT. YUAN HALLWAY - DAY 
Aunt Wu runs hurriedly through the halls. 
AUNT WU Shu Lien! 
INT. YU'S ROOM - DAY 
Yu, a beautiful woman in her early 30s, is finishing packing for the convoy, wrapping a few small items in a linen wrapper, as Aunt Wu bursts in. 
AUNT WU Li Mu Bai is here! 
INT. YUAN PRACTICE HALL - DAY 
LI How's everything? 
AUNT WU Fine.  Please come in. 
Yu sits, composed, as Aunt Wu ushers Li in.  Li carries a large object, wrapped in silk. 
Yu smiles. 
YU Mu Bai...It's been too long. 
LI It has. (he glances around the room) How's business? 
YU Come with me to Peking.  You can give the sword to Sir Te yourself. It'll be just like old times. 
LI First I must visit my master's grave.  It's been many years since Jade Fox murdered him.  I have yet to avenge his death.  And yet I'm thinking of quitting.  I must pray for his forgiveness. 
YU Join me once you have finished.  I can wait for you in Peking. 
LI Perhaps. 
EXT. THE GATE TO PEKING. DAY 
Customs officials have just finished checking the contents in a row of carriages bearing the Sun Security insignia. The caravan slowly passes through the checkpoint into the boundaries of Peking.  Yu, riding a handsome horse and clearly the leader, watches as her crew clears inspection. 
GUARDS Ok.  Pass. 
YU Thanks.  Let's go into the city. 
EXT. OUTSIDE A DEPOT. DAY 
Workers are busy unloading the contents from the carriages. Boss Giao is checking off the merchandise -- a cargo of medicinal herbs. 
GIAO Everything got here safely.  I'm much obliged. 
YU Just doing my job. 
GIAO Sun Security has been the best since your father started it. You're a credit to his memory. 
YU Thank you. 
GIAO I mean it. 
EXT. DAY. PEKING 
From a gray tiled roof, we can see Peking's magnificent grid of houses extending miles and miles out, freshly painted by the morning sun. 
EXT. PEKING STREET. DAY 
Dusty and congested as always, people, horses, and carriages are fighting to get through the boulevards. 
A group of jugglers perform at a corner. 
Yu surveys the busy street from on top of her horse. 
INT. TE'S GREAT HALL - DAY 
Yu presents the sword to Sir Te. 
Yu gently lays the sword, still in its sheath, in Jen's hands. 
JEN It's heavy for such a thin piece of metal! 
YU The handle is heavy.  And the blade is no ordinary metal.  Still, the sword is the lightest of weapons. You're just not used to handling it. 
JEN But I have had much practice.  As a child in the West, a platoon lived with us.  They'd let me play with their weapons.  The scabbard is so beautiful. 
YU Beautiful but dangerous.  Once you see it tainted with blood, its beauty is hard to admire.  It's 400 years old. 
JEN Exquisite!  You said it belongs to... 
YU My friend Li Mu Bai.  He's given it to Sir Te as a gift. 
JEN Li Mu Bai!  The famous warrior? Why would he give his sword to Sir Te? 
YU You're too young to understand. 
JEN You're a sword fighter too? 
Yu yanks the sword out of the sheath.  An eerie sound resonates within the study.  Jen is even more impressed. 
YU Yes, I am.  But I prefer the machete.  Certain moves, however, call for a sword. 
JEN Really? 
Yu puts the sword back in the case. 
JEN (longingly) It must be exciting to be a fighter, to be totally free! 
YU Fighters have rules too: friendship, trust, integrity... Without rules, we wouldn't survive for long. 
JEN I've read all about people like you. Roaming wild, beating up anyone who gets in your way! 
YU Writers wouldn't sell many books if they told how it really is. 
JEN But you're just like the characters in the stories. 
YU Sure.  No place to bathe for days, sleeping in flea-infested beds... They tell you all about that in those books? 
JEN You know what I mean.  I'm getting married soon, but I haven't lived the life I want. 
YU So I heard.  Congratulations.  It's the most important step in a woman's life, isn't it? 
JEN You're not married, are you? 
BO Governor Yu's house! 
EXT. ROOF TOP 
Yu and the Black Figure continue to fight. 
YU Get down here!  Give back the sword! 
EXT. GOVERNOR YU'S - NIGHT 
Yu slowly gets the upper hand in her fight with the thief. A small arrow cuts across the night and flies toward Yu. She catches it, but the masked figure takes the opportunity to get away. 
Yu pauses to feel the arrow in her hand, standing in the empty courtyard. 
EXT. TE'S SIDE ENTRANCE - DAY 
De Lu escorts Yu into Te's. 
DE LU Sir Te awaits you. 
INT. TE'S GREAT HALL - DAY 
Men are standing at attention.  Bo is giving his account of what happened, as Yu enters. 
BO I'm sure the thief is in the Yu household. 
SIR TE How dare you imply? 
BO But I say -- 
SIR TE -- Enough. 
The men hustle out.  Bo can barely contain his frustration. 
YU Has Governor Yu ever seen the sword? 
SIR TE Yes, though I doubt he's involved in this. 
YU But the sword could be in his compound. 
SIR TE Then someone's trying to set him up. We should inform Li Mu Bai. 
EXT. OUTSIDE GOVERNOR YU'S COMPOUND - NIGHT 
Madam Yu is returning from temple.  The governess is helping her out of the carriage.  Servants are peeling bills off a wall across the street. 
GOVERNESS This spells trouble. 
JEN I have a guest. 
The governess gets up to leave just as the maid shows Yu in. 
MAID This way please. 
The governess and Yu exchange quick glances.  The governess bows slightly and departs. 
JEN I've missed you. 
YU How so? 
JEN I'm bored. 
Yu sees the calligraphy. 
YU You're doing calligraphy? 
JEN I'll write your name.  Just for fun. 
Jen writes Yu's name with great confidence and swiftness. 
YU I never realized my name looks like "sword." 
Jen freezes slightly. 
YU You write gracefully.  Calligraphy is so similar to fencing. 
JEN Maybe it is.  I wouldn't know. 
The maid enters with tea. 
JEN Please. 
YU Thank you for seeing me.  I hear your wedding day is near.  You must be overwhelmed by the preparations. 
JEN I'm hardly doing a thing.  The less I think of it the better.  My parents are arranging everything. The Gous are a very powerful family. My marrying one will be good for my father's career. 
YU You are fornuate to marry into such a noble family. 
JEN Am I?  I wish I were like the heroes in the books I read.  Like you and Li Mu Bai.  I guess I'm happy to be marrying.  But to be free to live my own life, to choose whom I love... That is true happiness. 
YU Do you think so?  Let me tell you a story. 
INT. TSAI'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Inside the tiny house, they discover a hooded figure going through their belongings. 
Immediately Tsai throws a knife, which rips off the figure's mask -- revealing Bo.  Tsai has another long knife at his throat. 
TSAI Who are you? 
BO Wait!  I'm a friend! 
Tsai pauses. 
INT. TSAI'S HOUSE - NIGHT (LATER) 
May fans a small coal-fired grill that is boiling a sizzling pot of vegetable and meatball soup.  Her father and Bo are now friendly dinner companions, much to May's delight. 
TSAI I don't care about your sword. 
BO Why were you spying on the Yus? 
TSAI I'm looking for someone.  Jade Fox. I'm a police inspector from Shaan Xi, Gen Su district.  Jade Fox is a master criminal.  I hear she infiltrated the Yus.  She must have come with them when they transferred here.  But with Yu's reputation, I can't just go in and accuse her. 
BO This Jade Fox is a woman? 
TSAI Yes. 
BO Then leave her to me. 
TSAI Pardon me, but I doubt you can handle her.  My wife was quite a martial arts expert.  Jade Fox killed her.  So you see, this is personal.  Leave her to me. 
MAY It's ready! (re: the soup) 
BO I'm ready for anything! 
Bo fishes into the pot with his chopsticks.  May intercepts him with her own chopsticks. 
MAY Father gets first dip. 
Tsai stiffens and snaps his chopsticks, not to pick up a meatball but to catch an incoming dart.  A dart wrapped with a note.  Bo jumps up. 
TSAI They're gone. 
MAY What does it say? 
TSAI "We'll settle this at midnight on Yellow Hill."  Good, the fox is out of her hole. 
YU No, I'd already sent them home. You can blame me for losing the sword, but please trust that I'll get it back soon using my own methods. 
LI That's not what I meant.  I don't care about the sword. 
YU What do you mean?  Didn't you come back here for it? 
LI I don't know it was stolen until I got here. 
YU Then, why did you come? 
LI Well, we had talked... 
De Lu enters. 
DE LU Pardon my intrusion.  Master Li, your room is ready. 
LI Thank you.  Please lead the way. 
EXT. YELLOW HILL - NIGHT 
Tsai, Bo, and May wait under an ancient tree.  Bo stifles a yawn. 
BO The fox doesn't care much for punctuality.  Still no sign of her. 
An old lady struggles up the hill, wearing a floppy hat over her face, holding a cane.  The three exchange glances. 
TSAI Enough!  Show yourself. 
The old woman shrinks in fear, but then throws off her disguise and unveils herself -- the Governess. 
FOX Tsai... you dog!  You will pay for your stubbornness. 
BO That's what you think, old witch! 
TSAI If you surrender now, you'll suffer less.  But if you resist, I won't stop until you're dead. 
MAY Father!  Let me avenge my mother's death. 
FOX You'll soon end up like her, you little whore! 
BO You'll pay for that! 
A fierce battle begins, the main fighting between Tsai and Fox, with May and Bo getting a stab in occasionally, when the opportunity presents itself. 
TSAI (to Bo) She's going to paralyze you! 
May drops to the ground, cradling her dead father's head. Bo kneels beside her. 
MAY Father! 
EXT. TE'S - DAY 
Te and a group of his men look down as a cloth is removed from over the body of Tsai.  Bo and May stand before them. 
TE This is Tsai? 
MAY My father.  Police Inspector from Shaan. 
TE This should be reported to Governor Yu.  The victim is an officer.  You believe the killer is hiding out in his compound. 
YU I'd bet my life on it! 
TE (to Li and Yu) Come with me. 
He exits the room. 
INT. TE'S STUDY - DAY 
Te, Li, and Yu are seated. 
SIR TE This needs to be resolved, and quickly. 
LI I'll get into the Yu household and get her.  I'll ferret out Fox and her gang. 
YU We must be careful.  Governor Yu is a court official, and in charge of security.  Any disturbance will cast suspicion on him.  It might get Sir Te in trouble. 
SIR TE This is a delicate matter. 
YU Sir Te, can you find some excuse to invite Madam Yu and her daughter? 
SIR TE What do you have in mind? 
YU The best way to trap a fox is through her cubs. 
Sir Te and Li look puzzled. 
EXT. SIR TE'S GARDEN - DAY 
Yu sits with Madam Yu and Jen.  They busy themselves with various items for her trousseau. 
MADAM YU Madam Te is certainly spoiling us with these wedding gifts.  She's being so considerate. 
LI Congratulations. 
EXT. TSAI'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
May opens her door, only to find Bo standing guard. 
MAY Why don't you come in? 
BO I'm standing guard. 
MAY Come in.  It's cold. 
She turns back inside, hesitates, then turns back to him. 
MAY Come in.  We don't have to fear Jade Fox if we're together. 
EXT. TE COMPOUND - NIGHT 
A still, dark night. 
EXT. TE'S STUDY - NIGHT 
Something moves in the moonlight.  A hooded figure jumps down. 
Li Mu Bai, who had been hiding in the shadows, comes forward. 
LI Isn't it a bit too late to be out? You've brought me the sword? 
FIGURE I do as I please. 
The masked figure lunges away, but Li Mu Bai leaps with incredible speed and grabs the sword from her. 
LI Where's your master? 
FIGURE What's it to you? 
The figure floats away.  Li chases after her. 
EXT. PEKING STREET - NIGHT 
The two fly over houses and bounce off of rooftops, displaying amazing floating skills. 
INT. ABANDONED MONASTERY - NIGHT 
The figure bounces into an old monastery.  Li is already there. 
Jen slips in through the window.  She pulls off her mask, as she spots the Governess/Fox sitting and sewing. 
FOX You're home late... or should I say early? 
JEN Why are you still here?  You killed a policeman.  You should leave! You'll bring ruin on my whole family. 
FOX They wouldn't have found me if you hadn't stolen the sword.  Like a little girl, you thought stealing would be fun?  You, too, are responsible for that death.  Come with me.  You don't want to waste your life as the wife of some bureaucrat.  Denied your talent... As a master and disciple we will rule. 
JEN I'll never live as a thief! 
FOX You're already a thief. 
JEN That was just for fun.  How can I leave?  Where would I go? 
FOX Wherever we want.  We'll get rid of anyone in our way.  Even your father. 
JEN Shut up! 
FOX It's the Giang Hu fighter lifestyle... kill or be killed. Exciting, isn't it? 
JEN I owe you nothing. 
FOX Yes, you do!  You are still my disciple. 
Jen lunges at the Governess, and the two exchange a few blows.  Jen presses her finger against one of the Governess's pressure points, disabling her.  Jen pushes her across the room. 
JEN You think you've been teaching me all these years from the manual? You couldn't even decipher the symbols! 
FOX I studied the diagrams.  But you hid the details! 
JEN You wouldn't have understood, even if I had tried to explain.  You know... you've gone as far as you can go.  I hid my skills so as not to hurt you. 
FOX If I hadn't seen you fight with Li Mu Bai, I'd still be ignorant of all you've hidden from me. 
JEN Master... I started learning from you in secret when I was 10.  You enchanted me with the world of Giang Hu.  But once I realized I could surpass you, I became so frightened!  Everything fell apart. I had no one to guide me, no one to learn from. 
FOX Believe me, I've a lesson or two left to teach you! 
Fox exits. 
EXT. GOVERNOR YU'S GATE - DAY 
The Governess leaves, a small sack over her back. 
EXT. TE'S COURTYARD - DAY 
LO If you like that arrow, I can make you a bow.  Great for hunting wild chicken.  They're delicious. 
Jen raises one of the arrows, going on the attack again, but her legs betray her and she falls. 
LO You need to eat, understand?  Then you'll have the strength to fight. Understand? 
He helps her up, then pours her some horse milk from a sac. He hands her a small chunk of food, which she first accepts grudgingly, then, her hunger getting the better of her, she starts to wolf it down. 
LO You're eating too fast.  Slowly. 
EXT. CAVE - DAY 
Lo walks out into a barren mountain landscape.  A chicken roasts over a fire.  Lo whistles. 
Jen appears suddenly with a rock and knocks it over his head. Lo passes out as Jen scurries away. 
EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE AND DESERT - DAY 
Jen tries to find her way among the treacherous stony terrain, her lips chapped and fingers bloody and blistered. But soon she passes out. 
INT. CAVE - NIGHT 
Jen again awakes inside the cave.  Lo tries to feed her some water, but she chokes, and tries to push him away, only to find that her legs and hands are tied up. 
LO You've got quite a temper.  It's better this way. 
JEN You coward! 
LO Still in a bad mood?  At least you're speaking.  What's your name? 
Jen spits at Lo. 
LO I didn't think the Hans had names like that. 
Later: She weaves in and out of consciousness.  In the flickering lights, she sees Lo sharpening his arrows. 
Later, he pulls back an opaque curtain to reveal a makeshift bathroom -- a water-filled cavity serves as a tub. 
He rises as Jen sobs at the sight of her imprisoned and dishevelled body.  He comes over and unties her. 
LO Relax.  If I had wanted to, I would already have done it.  You must be dying for a bath.  Fresh water's hard to get here.  But I managed to bring some up.  You can wear my clothes when you're done.  They're clean.  Don't worry.  I'll sing, so you'll know where I am.  After the bath, you'll be calmer. 
Jen nods and the bandit releases her.  He starts to sing as he walks out.  Jen waits until the sound recedes before closing the curtain behind her and dipping into the pit. While she bathes, she listens to his singing, a loud rendition of a tribal song.  Lo apparently doesn't remember all the lyrics, and la-las his way through more than a few passages.  Jen smiles. 
INT. CAVE - NIGHT 
EXT. DESERT - DAY 
Lo and Jen ride through a mountain pass. 
EXT. CLIFF - DAY 
Lo and Jen stand at the crest of a cliff.  Lo looks over, viewing the desert valley below, as Jen joins him.  They see a troop of uniformed men riding by in the distance. 
LO Your father's men are still looking for you.  They're still out there, circling closer. 
JEN Let them look. 
LO It is trouble for me. 
Jen bites her lip. 
JEN Don't send me back! 
LO You must decide.  You might get tired of this life.  You might begin to miss your family.  If it were our daughter, we'd look for her too.  She would miss us.  Jen... I want you to be mine forever.  I will make my mark on the world.  I will earn your parents' respect. We have a legend.  Anyone who dares to jump from the mountain, God will grant his wish.  Long ago, a young man's parents were ill, so he jumped.  He didn't die.  He wasn't even hurt.  He floated away, far away, never to return.  He knew his wish had come true.  If you believe, it will happen.  The elders say, "A faithful heart makes wishes come true." 
INT. TENT - DAY 
Jen and Lo kiss.  Jen takes the jade comb out of her hair and presses it into his palm.  Jen starts to cry.  They embrace. 
JEN Keep it safe.  Return it to me when we are together again. 
LO I will. 
JEN (smiling painfully) If you don't, I'll come after you. And I won't let you off so easy. 
EXT. TENT - DAY 
Jen quietly walks out and stands sadly in the early morning light. 
End of flashback. 
INT. JEN'S ROOM - NIGHT 
LO Wherever I went, someone always recognized me.  I really tried. Later, I heard you came to Peking. I was afraid I'd never see you again.  So I came.  I can't let you marry. 
Jen is about to respond when a servant's voice is heard from outside the door. 
JEN (whispering) Go. 
LO Jen... 
LO Come with me to the desert!  Jen! Come with me to Xin Jiang! 
The guards surround Lo, but he escapes. 
EXT. BEIJING STREET - DAY 
Lo leaps and lands right in front of Li Mu Bai, his fingers pressed against Lo's neck.  Yu comes running around the corner and sees them. 
LI Where is Jade Fox? 
Yu jumps in and pushes Li away. 
YU (to Lo) Come with me!  Hurry! 
INT. CITY OUTSKIRTS - DAY 
Lo sits dejectedly, having told his story to Yu and Li, who look him over. 
YU (to Lo) You thought she'd give it all up and go back West with you? 
LO She's mine. 
LI Either way, you are no good to her dead.  With the Gou and Yu clans hunting you, you'll soon be in their hands. 
LO I don't care anymore. 
LI If you truly loved her, you wouldn't say that. 
YU Don't you want to see her again. 
LI All right.  I'll write you an introduction.  Take it to Wudan. Wait there for news from me. 
LO All right. 
EXT. TE COMPOUND - NIGHT 
Yu and Li enter, as other men and women race through the compound, a sense of panic in the air.  Yu gives Li a look. Li shrugs. 
INT. TE'S HALL - NIGHT 
A crowd, including Li and Yu, stand by as Te opens the empty sword case, his voice rising. 
SIR TE When will this end?  They take it, they put it back, they take it again.  My home is turning into a warehouse. 
Bo bursts into the hall, bows to Te. 
The men all nod their heads. 
EXT. OUTSIDE HWAI AN - DAY 
Li and Yu ride together. 
LI (to Yu) We're close to your headquarters. Go home and check in. 
YU What about you? 
LI I'll look around and catch up later. 
YU Not a bad idea.  Tonight we'll get a good night's sleep at headquarters. 
Yu takes a fork off the road.  Thunder can be heard in the darkening sky. 
EXT. SUN COMPOUND - DAY 
A group of security men are practicing Kung Fu in the front yard of Sun Security.  They stop when Yu enters. 
SECURITY MAN A Mistress, you're back. 
YU It's you!  How's everything here? 
CAPTAIN Fine.  You've been gone a while. 
YU Yes, and I leave again tomorrow. Your wife was due? 
AH WAI Yeah, a baby girl. 
YU Good! 
AH WAI I'll be happy if she's half as strong as you. 
YU Mrs. Wu... 
AUNT WU You're back! 
YU How's the arm?  Still sore? 
AUNT WU Much better.  You've been gone so long. 
YU Li Mu Bai is coming to stay the night. 
AUNT WU (excited) I'll go and make up his room! 
Jen jumps out. 
INT. YUAN COURTYARD - DAY 
Jen soars out to the front courtyard where the guards are still practicing. 
They raise their weapons at the sight of an intruder. 
YU (calling out) Jen! 
Jen greets Yu with the Green Destiny. 
YU Everyone out.  Shut the doors. 
The men leave. 
YU Fine... the friendship is over. 
Yu scoops up a weapon from one of many lying around and begins her battle with Jen. 
Yu uses every weapon that's available against Jen but none are any match for the Green Destiny. 
After slicing through another set of Yu's weapons, Jen looks admiringly at the Green Destiny in her hands. 
YU Don't touch it!  That's Li Mu Bai's sword. 
JEN Come and get it if you can. 
YU Without the Green Destiny, you are nothing. 
JEN Don't be a sore loser.  Go ahead. Take your pick.  I'll wait.  Go ahead. 
Yu picks up a huge broad sword and attacks.  Just as the Green Destiny slices it in half, Yu holds the broken blade at Jen's neck.  She pauses before hurting Jen, then pulls back. 
YU Give me the sword. 
Jen, taking advantage of Yu's trust, slices her arm. 
JEN Take it! 
Yu, her shoulder bleeding, falls back as Li Mu Bai jumps in. 
LI (enraged) Stop it!  You don't deserve the Green Destiny. 
JEN Not another lecture!  On guard! 
Jen dives in to retrieve it.  He follows Jen downstream by hopping from one rock to another.  Jen recovers the sword but is herself drowning.  Suddenly Jade Fox swings into the rapids and fishes Jen out.  Jade Fox carries the unconscious Jen away.  Li gives chase, but loses them. 
INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY 
It's raining.  Inside an old factory, Fox heats some medicine paste and then dips a needle in the paste.  She burns the needle point, causing a blue smoke.  She lights some incense and puts it in a burner near Jen, who is barely conscious. 
FOX Sooner or later, they'd drag you back to Peking.  Your parents will never accept you again.  But why go home?  We've gone this far, we won't stop now.  You'll always be my lady.  At last, we'll be our own masters.  We'll be happy.  That's the most important thing.  All we have left is each other, right? Lie down and rest. 
Jen is too weak to respond. 
Fox leaves Jen clutching the Green Destiny. 
EXT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY 
Fox scurries ahead in the rain.  Her eyes catch something, but she keeps moving. 
INT. YUAN COMPOUND - DAY 
Aunt Wu finishes bandaging Yu. 
AUNT WU She's crazy.  You should have killed her. 
YU I didn't have the heart. 
AUNT WU Well, Li Mu Bai can do it. 
Yu senses movement at the window.  Looking out, she sees Jade Fox in the distance. 
INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY 
Jen wakes up, flushed from fever.  She takes a sip from a cup of water -- it's empty.  She tosses the cup, gets up, and walks into the rain. 
EXT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY 
Jen walks out, raises her face into the rain, and drinks the raindrops.  Thirst quenched, she turns around and finds Li standing there.  Jen limps towards him while mumbling. 
JEN Is it me or the sword you want? 
Jen falls into Li, who checks her pulse and looks at her eyes. 
LI You've been drugged! 
Li carries her inside, kicking away the incense burner. 
INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY 
Bo is burying Fox in the rain. 
EXT. YUAN COMPOUND - NIGHT 
The guards surround Jen.  She pushes past them. 
JEN Where is Mrs. Wu? 
Aunt Wu comes running out. 
AUNT WU Stop it! 
Jen pulls out Yu's comb. 
JEN Shu Lien told me to show you this. 
AUNT WU Let her in. 
INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - NIGHT 
Yu sits across from Li, whose pose is almost meditational, eerily calm. 
YU Mu Bai, hold on.  Give me some hope... 
LI Shu Lien... 
YU Save your strength. 
LI My life is departing.  I've only one breath left. 
YU Use it to meditate.  Free yourself from this world as you have been taught.  Let your soul rise to eternity with your last breath.  Do not waste it... for me. 
LI I've already wasted my whole life. I want to tell you with my last breath... I have always loved you. I would rather be a ghost, drifting by your side... as a condemned soul... than enter heaven without you.  Because of your love... I will never be a lonely spirit. 
Yu cries. 
She kisses him lightly.  He closes his eyes. 
EXT. PATH - DAY 
As the sun rises, Jen rides speedily, clutching the medicine in her hands. 
INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY 
Li is in Yu's arms.  They're holding hands.  The sun shines in.  Yu slowly releases Li's stiff fingers -- he is dead. 
