DANCES WITH WOLVES 
Written by 
Michael Blake 
MAY 23, 1989 Final Draft 
INT. FIELD HOSPITAL TENT - DAY 
A black screen. 
The sound of a knife cutting through boot leather. 
Fade in on the waists of two men (THE SURGEONS) hovering around a crude operating table. 
In the extreme background, TWO STRETCHER BEARERS are just leaving. 
SURGEON 1 (O.S.) Is this the last one? 
One of the bearers stops and looks back. His face is numb. And he nods hollowly. 
We cannot see the patient stretched out on the table. But we do see that the first surgeon has succeeded in getting the man's boot off. 
SURGEON 2 (O.S.) God, what a mess... at least there's no gangrene. 
SURGEON 1 (O.S.) There will be if it doesn't come off. 
SURGEON 2 (O.S.) Well I can't saw if I can't keep my eyes open.  Let's coffee up... he can wait a few more minutes. 
As the TWO SURGEONS duck through a tent flap in the background we see a mangled foot, torn by shrapnel, it oozes blood from a cut clear to the bone. 
LIEUTENANT JOHN J. DUNBAR'S eyes are now open. He's a young man, his features sharp and handsome. With effort, he lifts his head and searches the room. 
His eyes come to rest on the form of a legless man lying in bloodsoaked sheets. He's whimpering like a child. 
Dunbar comes to a sitting position on the operating table. As his eyes move around the room they come to rest on a crate filled with the boots of men who have lost their legs. 
A cane travels through space and deftly hooks one of the boots. 
Lieutenant Dunbar brings the boot onto the operating table. He tries to pull it on his mangled foot, but the pain makes him cry out. Deliberately he breaks the cane and sticks a piece of it between his teeth. 
Tears of pain are rolling down his face. A sweat has broken out on his forehead and with great determination he pulls the boot on. 
EXT. FIELD HOSPITAL TENT - DAY 
The two weary surgeons sip on steaming mugs of coffee, their white coats spattered with blood. Their brief respite is interrupted by the sound of a muffled scream. 
Together they turn and rush back into the tent. 
INT. FIELD HOSPITAL TENT - DAY 
The operating table is empty save the broken cane and a small pool of blood. Dunbar is gone. 
LEGEND: ST. DAVID'S FIELD, TENNESSEE - 1862 
EXT. CIVIL WAR HILL - DAY 
In a natural valley below is a peaceful field.  And on either side of the field, seperated by a hundred yards of green, are low rock walls. 
Several dairy cows are lying dead in the field. 
A group of MOUNTED UNION OFFICERS, ride onto the crest of the hill and look down at the field. The distinguished man with a long grey beard is GENERAL TIDE. 
EXT. CONFEDERATE WALL - DAY 
Ragged CONFEDERATE SOLDIERS crouch sullenly behind one of the walls. 
EXT. UNION WALL - DAY 
And just behind the other wall are UNION MEN, better equipped perhaps, but just as weary as their enemies. 
We hold on one man, an enlisted soldier, SERGEANT PEPPER. He chances to glance behind and squints at a strange sight. 
A solitary officer is standing a few feet behind him. The sun is at his back, giving him a ghostly feel. Eerily he takes a step or two forward. He's limping badly. 
The sergeant recognizes him. It's Dunbar. 
PEPPER Lieutenant... izat you? 
Dunbar says nothing. He just stands and stares. It unnerves the sergeant. 
PEPPER What're you doing here lieutenant? 
DUNBAR This is where I belong... this is my outfit. 
The sergeant stares at Dunbar's foot. 
PEPPER You went to hospital? 
DUNBAR It was no good... what's going on here? 
A ping of riflefire flies overhead and the sergeant dives for the wall. He calls over his shoulder. 
PEPPER Better come to cover lieutenant... those boys are shooters. 
Dunbar settles next to the sergeant. 
PEPPER What's goin' on here... seems to be the question alright... you could ask the major but he don't know. He's busy tryin' to figger out how come the officer's mess run outta peach ice cream... 
The sergeant nods at the distant hill and Dunbar looks too. 
PEPPER General's come up to see the show but all he knows is there ain't no show... 
Now he nods toward the trees behind them and the lieutenant follows. Several union men are clustered around a huge hunk of material attached to a gondola. 
The sound of men's voices is coming near. Suddenly, General Tide is peering down at him. Dunbar stares back, glassy eyed. 
DUNBAR Don't take off my foot. 
General Tide stares down into Dunbar's blank face. He kneels next to the lieutenant and bends to whisper in his ear. 
GENERAL TIDE You rest easy son... you'll keep you're foot. As God is my judge, you'll keep it. 
The general looks up at one of his aides. 
GENERAL TIDE Bring up my ambulance... 
AIDE Sir? 
GENERAL TIDE Bring up my ambulance. And bring my surgeon with it. We've got an officer who's worth something lying here. 
The aide dashes off to do what he's told, as General Tide gently removes Dunbar's foot from the stirrup and lays it carefully on the ground. The image fades out. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
The image of a boot fades in, pull back to see that a lone rider is coming toward us. He has had a long and dusty trip. It's Lieutenant Dunbar. He's still riding the little buckskin. 
LEGEND - FORT HAYS. KANSAS - 1863 
Dunbar pulls up short. He stares thoughtfully at something in the distance. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) The strangeness of this life cannot be measured. In trying to produce my own death, I was elevated to the status of a living hero. 
Dunbar starts forward and the camera swings around to cover his back. In the distance we can see an isolated and dreary military post. 
The sky is very blue. The sun is bright. A rough-hewn, unfenced fort is straight ahead. 
There are several miscellaneous stone structures, a well- stocked stable, barracks, officer's quarters and in the center of it all, a headquarters building. 
Lieutenant Dunbar, riding straight and tall on his powerfully built buckskin, Cisco, passes into view. He's headed for the center of the fort. 
INT. FORT HAYS HEADQUARTERS - DAY 
Silhouetted against the outside, Lieutenant Dunbar pauses in the wide doorway of headquarters. We can hear the distant sounds of work and life coming from the outside but in here it's strangely quiet. 
A SERGEANT sits at a desk in the foyer. Across the way, at another desk, is an enlisted CLERK. Both men glance from their paperwork at the man in the doorway. But it's only a glance and they go right on shuffling paper. 
Footfalls sound in a hallway and a blue-eyed officer with slick, black hair swings into the foyer. He too has a slackness that echoes the dreariness of this post. 
The blue-eyed officer, LIEUTENANT ELGIN, and Dunbar meet at the doorway. Dunbar glances down at a scrap of paper in his hand. 
DUNBAR Where can I find Major... Fambrough? 
ELGIN Turn right... all the way to the end of the hall. 
Being roughly the same age and rank these two might idle awhile, but Dunbar is eager. He's already moving. 
FAMBROUGH (O.S.) Lt. John J. Dunbar. 
DUNBAR Sir? 
Dunbar stops and turns, peering down the hallway. No one is there. 
INT. FAMBROUGH'S OFFICE - DAY 
Sitting behind the desk, holding a set of orders is MAJOR FAMBROUGH. 
FAMBROUGH Lt. John J. Dunbar. 
Lt. Dunbar is standing in front of the desk. 
DUNBAR Yes sir? 
FAMBROUGH Indian fighter, huh? 
DUNBAR Excuse me? 
FAMBROUGH (indicating paper) Your orders say you are to be posted on the frontier. The frontier is Indian country. I quickly deduced that you are an Indian fighter. 
He arches an eyebrow, challenging the lieutenant. He has sad swollen eyes. He is an army lifer passed over too many times for promotion and right now does not look like a well man. 
FAMBROUGH I did not ascend to this position by being stupid. 
DUNBAR No sir. 
Fambrough returns to the order. Dunbar watches him in silence. 
The major's tunic is covered with food stains. Sweat has broken out all over his head. His grooming is awful. His hands are trembling slightly. Something is very wrong with him. 
Now the major sees something on the official paper. He looks quickly at the lieutenant, then back at the paper, moving his lips but making no sound. 
FAMBROUGH It says here you've been decorated. 
DUNBAR Yes sir. 
FAMBROUGH And they sent you out here to be posted? 
DUNBAR Actually sir, I'm here at my own request... I want to see the frontier. 
FAMBROUGH You want to see the frontier? 
DUNBAR Yes sir... before it's gone. 
The major fixes Dunbar with a sly look. 
FAMBROUGH Such a smart lad coming straight to me. 
Still sly, Fambrough digs into a side drawer. There is the distinct clink of glass on glass as he rummages. Now Fambrough has what he wants, a blank official form. He begins to fill it out, writing in a disturbingly childish way. 
FAMBROUGH Sir Knight, I am sending you on a knight's errand. You will report to Captain Cargill at the furthermost outpost of the realm... Fort Sedgewick. 
Looking over his shoulder at the journal, we see that this latest entry is one of many and Dunbar is embellishing it with a drawing of a star. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
Dunbar is off the seat riding atop the mountain of supplies. He is writing in his journal. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) We have been gone four days now and still we have seen no signs of life. Only earth and sky. 
Dunbar stops his writing. 
DUNBAR How far do you make the fort? 
TIMMONS Far. 
DUNBAR How far? 
TIMMONS Forty or fifty miles, maybe... what's the big hurry on Sedgewick? 
DUNBAR It's going to be my post... my home. 
TIMMONS You ain't hard to please, I'll say that. 
Timmons slows the wagon and stops.  He has seen something. 
TIMMONS Look yonder. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
A cluster of bones bleached white, are lying in the tall grass. Human bones. Dunbar is squatting next to them. Timmons' head dips into view over his shoulder and the teamster's mouth splits into a toothless grin. 
TIMMONS Somebody back east is sayin'... "why don't he write?" Stupid bastard. 
The teamster spits and starts for the wagon. Dunbar comes to his feet and examines the burnt out remains of a wagon. Then, he finds an arrow in the grassy wheel. Looking off he can only guess at the drama here. The sun is sinking fast below the great expanse of prairie. 
EXT. SEDGEWICK BLUFF - DAWN 
A hatless soldier in a tattered overcoat, CAPTAIN CARGILL, is on the bluff staring morosely through his telescope. One hand rubs a sore spot on his jaw. He sticks the telescope in his overcoat pocket. He wedges a hand into his mouth and wiggles a loose tooth. He gives it a tug but it is not ready to come out. 
The breeze is coming up and Captain Cargill pulls his overcoat closed. As he slips his last button through the hole, it breaks off, bounces off of his foot and rolls a few feet down the bluff. 
Captain Cargill watches the button forlornly, making no move to go after it. He raises his head once more and looks to the east. Nothing is out there. 
EXT. SEDGEWICK CUT BANK - DAWN 
Cargill is walking along the base of the cut bank. He stops, staring up at a series of holes dug into the bluff. Their entrance covered with "found" draperies of all description. He works up the courage to call out. 
CARGILL Corporal Guest... Corporal Guest... Corporal Guest. Corporal Guest, you don't have to talk to me... just please come out. 
At last there's some real movement behind one of the holes and CORPORAL GUEST crawls through one of the curtains. He neither salutes nor speaks. He blinks down at Cargill, looking more like a hobo than a soldier. 
CARGILL It's the end... assemble the men in front of my quarters. 
EXT. CARGILL'S QUARTERS - DAY 
The "MEN" have lined up in front of Cargill's sad, sod hut; pitiful men. Sick, moth-eaten, crushed in spirit. There are nine of them. Just behind Cargill is a half-collapsed supply house and a broken down corral holding two bony horses. 
Cargill has a brave face and a broken heart. 
CARGILL You hate me... but I feel none of the same for you... you men stayed. You stayed after they took all our horses. You stayed after all the others deserted. You stayed on the promise that the army would resupply us. I've looked for that wagon from Fort Hays just as you have... day after miserable day. All I can say is that I'm proud of you. Get your things men, we're leaving this place. The army... can go to hell. 
The zombie troops have already broken ranks, lurching back to their holes and gear like a gang of drunks. 
Cargill walks out of frame to reveal the broken down sign that hangs askew above his quarters: "Fort Sedgewick." 
EXT. SEDGEWICK BLUFF - DUSK 
A solitary WOLF trots along the top of a bluff overlooking the river. He has two white socks running up his front legs. An old jagged scar cuts across his muzzle. He's watching the ruins of Fort Sedgewick. 
The little band of troops, all on foot, with their two lame horses trailing behind are fading in the distance. 
EXT. WAGON CAMP - DAWN 
The wagon is parked in a shallow depression, its team unhitched. Under the wagon the forms of two men lay curled up in blankets. 
Dunbar is sleeping peacefully, his nose pressed against a jacket. Now his nostrils begin to twitch. His face turns sour and he wakes to find that he's been sleeping against the stink of Timmons. Flies buzz about the teamster's sleeping body. 
Dunbar quickly pulls away from the bad smell. He rolls out from under the wagon and clambers to his feet. 
Lieutenant Dunbar looks out over the prairie. It's going to be a spectacular day. 
In the far distance, a column of buzzards is circling. Dunbar has paused to watch them. He ducks back under the wagon. 
DUNBAR Timmons... Timmons. 
No response from the deep-sleeping driver. Dunbar starts to move closer to shake him awake but the odor under there makes him think twice. He snatches up the arrow and probes under the wagon. 
DUNBAR Timmons. 
The teamster comes awake with a squeal, he joins Dunbar staring up at the circling birds. 
DUNBAR Something's out there... 
TIMMONS Somethin' dead. 
DUNBAR Might have a look. 
TIMMONS Might stay clear of whatever did the killin'. 
Timmons' mood is different now. He begins to hitch the team with a new sense of urgency. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
From a high point on the prairie we can see the wagon moving west. And no more than half a mile away we can see Cargill's column, moving east. Neither is aware of the other's presence. 
Several buzzards are settling on a half-butchered horse. It's one of the animals that was with Cargill's command. We can hear men singing. The shaky little column from Fort Sedgewick is marching east for Fort Hays. 
INT. QUARTERS - NIGHT 
A lamp turns up, casting a glow over Dunbar's incredibly cramped quarters. 
He adjusts the lamp and sits back on the bunk, his journal on his lap. He begins an entry. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) Have arrived to find Fort Sedgewick deserted. Am now waiting for the garrison's return or word from headquarters. Post is in exceedingly poor condition. Have decided to assign myself clean-up duty beginning tomorrow. Supplies abundant. The country is everything I dreamed it would be. There can be no place like this on earth. 
Dunbar signs the entry, yawns contentedly and reaches to turn down the lamp. 
A wolf howls somewhere outside. It's low at first but it keeps on building. At its height, the howl sounds as though it is coming from, something gigantic. 
Dunbar is still listening after it's gone. He hears wood snap in the direction of the river then all is quiet again. Without hesitating, he slips the big revolver out of its holster and cradling it like a teddy bear, slips it under his blanket. 
The light is left blazing. 
EXT. SEDGEWICK - DAWN 
First light over the sad fort. 
INT. QUARTERS - DAWN 
Dunbar is sleeping quietly. He opens his eyes and rears his head to get his bearings. Then he flops back down and shuts his eyes, hoping for more sleep. 
He hears two heavy footfalls in rapid succession. 
Dunbar holds his breath staring at the doorway. Quietly, he pulls his gun aiming it directly at the doorway. 
Silence. Suddenly, a shadow starts across the threshold, followed quickly by Cisco's big buckskin head. The horse watches Dunbar a moment, then looks curiously around the room. 
EXT. CORRAL - DAY 
Dressed in pants, old boots, and a threadbare shirt, Dunbar bangs home a nail on the sagging corral gate. He tests the gate's swing and satisfied with this, he latches it leaving Cisco inside. 
The lieutenant picks up a water bucket and we follow as he walks the few, quick yards it takes to reach the bank overlooking the river. 
When he sees what lies along the slope below, he stops. At this spot just below the fort, a garbage dump falls away to the stream. Old containers, sacks, rags, trash, bottles, and a thousand other miscellaneous scraps. 
Dunbar hops over the steep lip of the bank and starts down the gentle incline, eyeing the trash as he goes. Now he reaches the stream and kneels, preparing to dip the bucket. 
He sniffs a bad odor, looks across the stagnant stream and sees something sticking out of the water. 
It's a cloven hoof. And further out, another. And part of an antler. There are decomposed antelope corpses everywhere. 
EXT. RIVER - DAY 
An antelope skeleton is being pulled from the muck. 
Dunbar is stripped to the waist as he drags the body through deep water. Covering his face against the stink is a bandana. His pants are soaked and he's sweating hard. 
At the stream's edge he heaves the antelope onto a pile holding several others. Under the bodies is a huge bed of trash which he has already collected. 
The body he tosses up slips and he has to right it. Now he wades back into the river and searches the water with his hands for more. 
EXT. RIVER BANK - DAY 
Dunbar fastens the last of the traces to a pile of garbage spread out on a sheet of canvas. He picks up a set of long reins, clucks to Cisco and they start up the steep bank with the load. 
EXT. RIVER - DAY 
A distinct change has taken place with the water. It's running. 
EXT. TRASH PILE - DAY 
Oil is pouring out of a jug and onto the great heap. Dunbar empties the last of the oil and throws the empty jug onto the pile. He takes the match he's been holding between his teeth and flicks it to life with a fingernail. He flips it onto the heap. 
The fire catches immediately and Dunbar has to back away a few steps as the flames send a column of thick, black smoke into the air. 
To Dunbar's horror, the smoke billows bigger and bigger... climbing into the sky as a signal for anyone to see. 
DUNBAR Damn... damn. 
He stoops for his rifle and we follow as he scrambles up the slope. The lieutenant clambers over the lip and stops to scan the horizon. 
But we continue, following the black smoke as it towers higher and higher until it is just a wisp. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
Four fantastic faces fill the screen, three together, one a little apart. They are tired, frustrated faces, and also very fierce. They are painted. Several wear their hair in spiked roaches, one has brightly-colored eagle feathers jutting out of his scalp at all angles. The FOUR WARRIORS are naked from the waist up. 
They are Pawnee, the scariest of all the Plains Tribes. The man a little apart looks THE TOUGHEST. The four men are squatting on their haunches and four scrawny ponies stand behind them. All the men are staring in the same direction from a low rise on the prairie. 
It's smoke, a column much smaller than Dunbar's. The smoke is drifting up from the furthest of a line of rolling gullies. 
We can see the whole Indian party now: the four men and their ponies, two injured men on travois and two extra ponies. 
(PLEASE NOTE: ALL INDIAN DIALOGUE WILL BE IN NATIVE DIALECT AS INDICATED BY TRIBE. SUBTITLES WILL BE USED.) 
THE TOUGHEST Only a white man would make a fire for everyone to see. 
1ST PAWNEE Maybe there's more than one. 
The Toughest turns back to face the others. Without another word, he jumps on his horse. Another silence as the three warriors consider what to do. 
2ND PAWNEE We have no rifles. White men are sure to have rifles. 
3RD PAWNEE We should forget this and go home. 
The Toughest has listened all the while, growing more and more disgusted. He pulls the blanket from his shoulders and flings it angrily at his companions. 
TOUGHEST Then go. I for one, will not debate the merit of a single line of smoke in my own country. 
He starts his pony walking down the rise toward the smoke. 
1ST PAWNEE (shaking his head) He will not quit until we are all dead. 
EXT. SEDGEWICK - DAY 
The spectacular face of Kicking Bird is staring at something. 
He's looking thoughtfully at the "new" Fort Sedgewick; the tidy grounds, the great awning, the repaired corral. The beautiful, buckskin standing inside. 
EXT. RIVER - DAY 
Comfortable with his nakedness, Dunbar is meandering along the stream in no particular hurry. He's very white. His skin practically sparkles in the sun. 
Dunbar is making his way up the bluff. The steepest part is at the lip and here he drops to all fours. 
Dunbar's face comes into view. He freezes. 
Someone is creeping under the shade of the awning... an aboriginal man. 
Dunbar's head pops down behind the bluff. 
The lieutenant is down on his naked haunches. His heart is pounding in his ears. Sweat has broken out on his face. His mouth is dry as ash. 
He's playing back images in fragments. A deerskin shirt, strands of hair sewn along each sleeve. Fringed leggins. A dark, faded breechclout. Moccasins with beading. A single, large feather drooping behind a head of shiny, black hair. Braids wrapped in fur. A lethal stone club hanging from a red hand. No eyebrows on a magnificent, primitive face. 
Dunbar stays in a crouch, trying to think on jellied legs. His breathing has quickened. His mouth is open. 
A horses' whinny startles him. 
Ever so slowly, the lieutenant peers over the bluff. 
The aboriginal man is in the corral. He's walking slowly toward Cisco. One hand is held out reassuringly, the other is grasping a rope. He's making gentle, cooing sounds and is only a step or two from being able to loop his line over the horse's neck. 
DUNBAR You there! 
Kicking Bird jumps straight into the air. As he lands he whirls to meet the voice that startled him. 
Dunbar is coming. His hands are clenched and his arms are swinging stiffly at his sides. 
Kicking Bird has turned to stone at the sight of this horror. With a sharp intake of breath, he staggers back a few steps. Then he turns and runs, tearing through the corral fence as if it were made of twigs. He leaps onto his horse and quirts the pony into full gallop. 
Dunbar is watching from the yard. His jaw is clenched, his hands are still fisted. 
The great grassland is empty. Kicking Bird is gone. 
INT. SUPPLY HOUSE - DAY 
The first of three carbine boxes is lugged off the stack. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
The three boxes are stacked on the open prairie. Suddenly a shovelful of dirt flies out of an unseen spot next to the crates. Another flying shovelful. And another. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) Have made first contact with a wild Indian. One came to the fort and tried to steal my horse. Do not know how many more are in the vicinity but I am taking steps for another visitation. Am burying excess ordnance, lest it fall into enemy hands. 
The last square of sod is placed carefully on the surface of the earth. Dunbar drives a bleached rib bone into the ground at an angle just in front of his cache. 
Dunbar steps back from his work. The replaced sod is invisible. The guns will not be found. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
The lieutenant sits atop Cisco scouting along the bluff. Fort Sedgewick lies in the background. 
INT. QUARTERS - DAY 
Dunbar's journal lies open on his bunk. We hear a digging sound in the background. The lieutenant is facing the wall of his quarters. Using a bayonet as a cutting tool, he has carved a window out of the sod. He's nearly finished and is just tidying up. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) Have made all the preparations I can think of. I cannot mount an adequate defense but will try to make a big impression when they come. Waiting. 
Finished, he retreats to his bunk and sits staring across at his new window. He glances at the journal by his side and has a thought. He picks it up and starts to write. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) The man I encountered was a magnificent looking fellow. 
EXT. TEN BEARS' LODGE - DAY 
An old Indian man sits in the shade outside his lodge. His skin is leathery, his hair grey and wispy but his eyes are bright as diamonds. He is TEN BEARS, well past sixty, but still strong enough to be the head man. He is, for the most part, oblivious to the GRANDCHILD squirming in his lap. 
He's smoking a long-stemmed pipe, but the main object of his interest is an old woman squatting next to him... PRETTY SHIELD. She's pounding away at something in a bowl. 
Ten Bears looks up to notice Kicking Bird. The medicine man is passing not far away and Ten Bears' eyes follow him carefully, not glancing away until Kicking Bird has ducked into his lodge. 
TEN BEARS Kicking Bird has been keeping to himself these last few days. I do not like to see our medicine man walking so alone. 
The old woman looks up from her pounding but does not respond. 
TEN BEARS What does his wife say? 
PRETTY SHIELD He is keeping to himself. 
Ten Bears gives his wife a challenging look and she bristles. 
PRETTY SHIELD That's what she says. 
Ten Bears accepts this. Then he looks down at the bowl. 
TEN BEARS Make sure that meat is soft... my teeth hurt. 
Ten Bears looks once more at the entrance of Kicking Bird's lodge. 
INT. KICKING BIRD'S LODGE - DAY 
Kicking Bird sits next to the fire playing with his son but he is preoccupied with something. 
There is a rustle of movement at the tent flap, and Ten Bears peers in. 
TEN BEARS May I come in? 
The little boy races over to the old chief, Kicking Bird makes a move to pull him back, but Ten Bears indicates the boy should stay. 
Smiles a Lot trots his pony over to Otter. 
SMILES A LOT If we take the horse of a white god they will make up songs about us. 
OTTER Maybe. 
SMILES A LOT They will ask us to go on raids. 
OTTER Who gets the white god horse? 
SMILES A LOT I do... but we share... you and Worm can ride him too. Who can say this is not a great plan? 
Otter and Worm have blank expressions. 
INT. QUARTERS - NIGHT 
Dunbar is snoring. The lantern is turned down low. A horse whinnies loudly and Dunbar arises. 
In the next instant there is a pounding of hooves and the yelping of Indian boys. 
Reeling with sleep, Dunbar is up and moving. He grabs a rifle and lurches for the door. 
As he runs through the door he forgets to duck under the wooden cross beam. His skull cracks resoundingly against the. overhang and Dunbar slumps onto his back... out cold. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - NIGHT 
The three boys are shrieking as they race across the prairie with their prize. Otter has Cisco by a lead line. Smiles A Lot gallops alongside. 
SMILES A LOT Let me take him Otter. 
OTTER I have him. 
To Smiles A Lot's amazement, Otter is suddenly gone. He's zooming backward in midair. 
Otter comes to ground a few yards back, throwing up a puff of dust. Cisco has screeched to a halt. Now he rears up, twisting until the rope is free of Otter. Then he sticks his tail in the air and makes tracks in the direction of the fort. Worm chases after Cisco as Smiles A Lot sees to Otter 
EXT. PRAIRIE - NIGHT 
Smiles A Lot pulls his pony up next to Otter and peers down at the fallen boy. 
SMILES A LOT What happened? 
OTTER I don't know. My arm doesn't work. 
SMILES A LOT You shouldn't have fallen down... now we'll get in trouble. 
OTTER It was your idea. 
SMILES A LOT My idea was only to take the horse. 
This squabble is interrupted by Worm's return. He gallops up and jumps off his pony. 
SMILES A LOT Otter hurt himself. 
Worm shakes his head in frustration. Otter grabs a handful of dirt and flings it at Smiles A Lot and Worm. 
OTTER (to Worm) You're not hurt... I'm hurt. 
WORM I will be when my father finds out, his bow will be across my back. 
INT. QUARTERS - DAWN 
It's growing light and Dunbar is just coming to. He rolls to one side and touches the egg that has risen on his forehead. He hears movement in the yard and looks out. 
Cisco is pawing the ground. The Indian line still around his neck. 
EXT. RIVER - DAY 
Dunbar is sitting naked in the shallow river below the fort. He has worked up a good lather on his face and is shaving. The big Navy revolver and his gunbelt are slung over his shoulder. Dunbar glances at the far bluff. 
Two Socks is sitting quietly, watching the shaving ritual below. 
The lieutenant is finishing shaving his moustache. He stares onto the surface of the water trying to get it just right. Once again he glances up at Two Socks. 
Two Socks' attention has been diverted. He's on guard, staring intently across the river. 
Dunbar looks quickly at the bluff nearest the fort. Everything is still. He looks back at Two Socks. 
The wolf is gone. 
The lieutenant hears something now. Hoofbeats. Hoofbeats coming in a rush. 
He bursts from the water and scrambles up the incline. 
EXT. CORRAL - DAY 
They're streaming past him. FIVE MOUNTED WARRIORS bunched around Cisco: raw, powerful men on painted, feathered ponies. Wind In His Hair is one of them. 
Their faces are streaked with colorful designs, their weapons slung around the shoulders, their nearly naked bodies all sinew and bone. They are the full and breathtaking glory of war. 
Dunbar is struck dumb. He stands still as the pageant passes in front of him. 
The sight of Dunbar troubles Wind In His Hair, so much that he pulls up a hundred yards away. He sits a moment on his whirling pony, trying to decide if he should confront this white god. 
He makes a warrior's choice. Wind In His Hair shouts to his fellows to go on and charges down the slope... straight for Dunbar. 
Dunbar's eyes are fixed on the closing horseman. He can't move. 
Wind In His Hair is coming flat out, his lance extended. At the last moment he pulls up so hard that the black pony skids to a sit. The horse is up quickly and hard to manage. He pitches back and forth only a few feet in front of Lieutenant Dunbar. 
WIND IN HIS HAIR I am Wind In His Hair. Do you not see that I am not afraid of you?... Do you see? 
Dunbar stares expressionlessly into the Sioux's eyes. He doesn't blink. 
Wind In His Hair suddenly turns his pony and whips after his comrades. A big smile breaks out across his face. 
Kicking Bird nods his assent and Dunbar flashes a pleased smile. 
DUNBAR Buffalo. 
EXT. SEDGEWICK - DAY 
Dunbar is watching Kicking Bird and Wind In His Hair walk their horses up the ridge to meet the waiting escort. Each horse has a gift of coffee and sugar slung over its withers. Occasionally, Wind In His Hair dips a hand into one of the bags and carefully licks each finger. 
Dunbar waves up at them but there is no response. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) The sugar didn't figure to last at that rate any way. I don't believe I'd go too far in saying that a foundation for good relations is being laid. 
DISSOLVE INTO: 
EXT. SEDGEWICK - DAY 
DUNBAR (V.O.) They have come again, as always the same two with an escort of six. 
Dunbar is standing in the same spot, it is a new day 
Leaving their ever present escort behind, Kicking Bird and Wind In His Hair ride into the fort. 
Kicking Bird's pony is carrying something large and bulky on his withers. A buffalo robe. Dunbar walks up to greet them. Kicking Bird returns the welcome and signs to him as he speaks. 
KICKING BIRD Have you seen any buffalo? 
Dunbar can only shake his head no. 
Kicking Bird accepts this and dismounts. 
Dunbar throws his customary wave but the escort remains noncommittal. 
EXT. HILL - DUSK 
Dunbar is lying on his buffalo robe, his hand runs against the grain of the thick fur. He begins writing in his journal. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) I believe I am dealing with Kiowa Indians as I have heard that word on several occasions. 
He rolls on his back, and lays aside the journal, practicing the hand signals. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) I am learning the Kiowa words for head, hand, horse, fire, coffee, buffalo, hello and goodbye. 
EXT. SEDGEWICK - DAY 
It's raining. High on a hill, the Indian escort waits stoically, horses heads bowed in the drizzle. On the haunches of one of the ponies is a single deer. 
Down below, Wind In His Hair and Kicking Bird are still mounted and converse with Dunbar using sign talk. 
DUNBAR No, I haven't seen any buffalo. Are you hungry? I have food... are you hungry? 
Dunbar suggests they take some of his supplies but Kicking Bird will not stand for this. He waves Dunbar off. The three men say their goodbyes, and Dunbar as usual throws a wave to the six men on the hill. 
Unexpectedly, one of them returns it and the other five react with surprise. 
ESCORT 1 He waved. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) Nothing I have been told about these people is correct. They are not beggars and thieves. They are not the bogeymen they have been made out to be. 
Kicking Bird and Wind In His Hair disappear over the hill, followed by their escort. 
Lightning bursts far out on the prairie. 
INT. QUARTERS - NIGHT 
Dunbar huddles beneath the warmth of his buffalo robe. He is finishing up the second of two drawings. It is a portrait of Wind In His Hair, he carefully titles it "The Fierce One." He has already completed a likeness of Kicking Bird and underneath it the words "The Quiet One." 
EXT. KICKING BIRD'S LODGE - DAY 
Several children are playing close-by as Stands With A Fist works over a staked-out hide, scraping away the excess flesh. Though her arms are lined with scabs her work is methodical and unforced. She seems recovered. 
KICKING BIRD (O.S.) Stands With A Fist. 
She looks up to see the medicine man looming over her. 
KICKING BIRD We will talk awhile. 
INT. KICKING BIRD'S LODGE - DAY 
Except for Kicking Bird and Stands With A Fist, the tipi is empty. They are just seating themselves at the firepit in the center of the lodge. A brief silence, during which Kicking Bird studies the girl with the bowed head. 
KICKING BIRD Your wounds are healing well? 
STANDS WITH A FIST Yes. 
KICKING BIRD You are happy here, with my family? 
STANDS WITH A FIST I am glad to be here. I am missing my husband. 
KICKING BIRD Perhaps you will marry again when the time is right. 
STANDS WITH A FIST Perhaps. 
Kicking Bird is leading up to something and Stands With A Fist fears it. She keeps her head bowed. 
KICKING BIRD We have word from many places that the whites are... 
Kicking Bird stops himself, he knows this must be hard. She brings her green eyes to bear on the medicine man, waiting to hear more. 
KICKING BIRD They are coming into everyone's country. They will soon be in ours I think. This white man who lives at the old soldier fort, the one who calls himself loo ten tant... I have visited him and I believe his heart is a good one. He knows things about the whites which we do not. 
He pauses letting this sink in. 
STANDS WITH A FIST I am afraid of the man at the fort. 
KICKING BIRD He is only one man. 
EXT. RIVER - DAY 
Stands With A Fist is still in shock. The drumming in the village is very loud now. She rises unsteadily to her feet and starts back to camp. 
EXT. SEDGEWICK - NIGHT 
The moon is full. As we look down on the fort we can hear a new sound coming off the prairie. A light rumbling. 
INT. QUARTERS - NIGHT 
Lieutenant Dunbar is asleep in the moonlight. The rumbling is getting louder. It wakes him. He gropes about, lights the lantern and listens to the strange, powerful sound. 
Something's in the air. He holds the lantern toward the ceiling. Particles of dirt and dust are being shaken from the roof. It's the earth that's trembling. 
EXT. SEDGEWICK - NIGHT 
Dressed in only pants and boots, Dunbar walks along the bluff above the river, his lantern held out in front of him. The sound is tremendous now. Dunbar stops as a great wall of dust rises before him. 
At the same time, he realizes something is alive behind the wall of dust, he recognizes the sound... the sound of thousands of hoofbeats. 
He sees one veer out. And now another. And another, darting briefly from the great cloud of dust. The most powerful force on the prairie now seems like the most powerful force on earth as it thunders by. 
The buffalo. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - NIGHT 
Dunbar and Cisco are running flat out in the moonlight. 
EXT. INDIAN VILLAGE - NIGHT 
The village is coming up. A great fire is blazing at the far end. Horse and rider speed past the first lodge. 
It's an important mission for the lieutenant. As he gallops through the village, he says one word over and over, trying to remember the correct pronunciation. It's the Sioux word for buffalo. 
EXT. FIRE - NIGHT 
Everyone has gathered around the great blaze. In the center of the circle close to the fire, the buffalo men are dancing. Others are dancing too. The music is very loud. 
The little buckskin is out of his head with speed. He doesn't answer the bit when Dunbar first tries to pull him up. 
People scatter in all directions, as Dunbar and Cisco charge into their midst. 
Dunbar pulls back with all his might, and the buckskin sits down. He's wet from his long ride, and Dunbar can't stay on his back. As Cisco rears, he slides off and tumbles onto his back. 
Angry warriors pile on top of him. Dunbar shouts out the word for buffalo, yelling it over and over as the warriors pummel him. 
So many men have rushed into the fray that none can deal the lieutenant a decisive blow. They roll about in the dust. Just as Dunbar's cries have begun to lose their strength, he feels a sudden lessening of the weight upon him. 
As the men pile off, Dunbar is left flat on his back. His lip is split and blood is streaming from his nose. 
He's looking into a familiar face. The man's head is covered with the full skin and feathers of an eagle. Kicking Bird. 
DUNBAR Buffalo... 
Kicking Bird doesn't understand or can't hear. He brings his face close to Dunbar's. 
DUNBAR Buffalo... (making horns with his fingers) Buffalo. 
KICKING BIRD Buffalo? 
DUNBAR Yes. Buffalo. 
Kicking Bird raises up and yells it out to his people. 
KICKING BIRD The buffalo have come. 
For a fleeting moment there is shocked silence. Then the Sioux explode with excitement. 
Still dazed, Dunbar is pulled to his feet. The people are surging in around him with yelps of joy. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
A wide stretch of prairie, falling away to nothing. 
The buffalo have left a trail in the form of a tremendous swath of torn-up ground, several hundred yards from side to side. 
Indians on horseback move into the picture. 
Most of Ten Bears' camp is moving out in a long, noisy column. Spirits are high. First come the lead scouts, followed by Ten Bears and his advisors, Kicking Bird and wind In His Hair among them. A large body of warriors come next. Behind these men are the women, children and elderly. Dunbar is riding at the head of the last group. 
The attitudes of the people have changed significantly. People who catch his eye are openly smiling at the lieutenant. 
An old woman comes alongside and offers him a piece of dried meat, patting his hand as he takes it. 
Here comes Smiles A Lot, Worm and Otter, all on ponies, galloping up beside him. They want to play. 
SMILES A LOT Loo ten tant... 
He motions for Dunbar to break ranks and while the lieutenant is puzzling this out, a chorus of cries comes from the column's front. 
Three far-ranging scouts are coming in at a run. 
EXT. COLUMN - DAY 
The scouts pull up in front of Ten Bears to make their report. There's no way to know what's going on but something important is happening. 
Wind In His Hair suddenly breaks ranks and rides back to the main body of warriors. A dozen warriors strip off their shirts and leggings. They're ready in moments. Then, with Wind In His Hair leading them, the party breaks away from the column and rides east at a gallop. 
The column resumes its southward march. 
EXT. COLUMN - DAY 
The day has grown hot as the column continues its march through changing terrain. 
Dunbar is suffering some. The heat and dust are monstrous. At the moment however, he's most concerned with Stands With A Fist. She's riding closeby and he watches her with interest. 
Kicking Bird reaches out and feels the strange material on either side of Wind In His Hair's chest. 
WIND IN HIS HAIR I traded for it. 
KICKING BIRD Does it scratch the skin? 
WIND IN HIS HAIR A little. But do you see how good it looks. Everyone says it looks good. Everyone. 
EXT. TEMPORARY CAMP - NIGHT 
Dunbar keeps to the shadows as he makes his way through camp. Now he slows his step. 
Light from another fire is spilling into his path. There's music too. And singing. The voices are high and feminine. 
Dunbar peers around a lodge. A group of young women are dancing in a clockwise circle. Their steps are light-hearted. This is dancing purely for the fun of it. 
One of the young women spots him standing behind the lodge and there's a wave of shy giggling as news of "loo ten tant's" presence is passed along. Embarrassed, Dunbar starts along the fringe of the fires, nodding politely to the women as he goes. 
One has more courage than the others. She breaks out, takes his hand and steers him gently into the dance circle. Whatever resistance he might have is buried by the girl's insistent encouragement. She keeps showing him the step and the lieutenant tries to pick it up. 
The movement is simple and the music is mesmerizing. Awkward at first, Dunbar quickly gets the hang of it. In short order, he's keeping up with the others. And he's enjoying himself. 
Soon he has relaxed enough to shut his eyes, carried along by the eternal sound of the drums. He doesn't notice that the circle has begun to shrink. There is a touch of the devil in their eyes. 
He bumps into somebody and the woman behind bumps into him. But the girls just laugh and so does Dunbar. It was a pleasant accident. But quickly there's another accident. And then all their bodies are squeezing against his. The girls are murmuring good things to him. Their hands are touching him everywhere. 
It's okay with Dunbar. Everybody's having a good time. The drumming suddenly stops however, and the women scatter away from the fire, leaving Dunbar suddenly alone. Kicking Bird is standing not far off. 
DUNBAR They asked me to dance... 
The medicine man says nothing. 
DUNBAR I was just dancing... 
The lieutenant does a step or two, trying to explain. Finally, that strange half-smile appears on Kicking Bird's face. 
EXT. KICKING BIRD'S LODGE - NIGHT 
Stands With A Fist has been watching everything from the tipi flap. Now she ducks back inside. 
INT. KICKING BIRD'S LODGE - NIGHT 
The fire is still burning in the center of the lodge. Dunbar is sleeping soundly. 
It's not a moment later that we hear the soft sounds of mumbling somewhere in the lodge. Then it's quiet. There's that mumbling again. And now a woman's giggle. 
Dunbar stirs, waking and curious, sits up a little and looks across the fire. There is movement on Kicking Bird's platform. The medicine man's head and that of his wife come into view for a second or two before they sink back down into shadow. The movements and sound that follow become more forceful. They're having sex. 
Embarrassed, the lieutenant averts his eyes, they happen over the forms of Kicking Bird's deeply sleeping children, the low-burning fire, and settle on Stands With A Fist's back. 
Lieutenant Dunbar, the sounds of lovemaking floating over him, peers again in that direction only to meet the smiling eyes of Kicking Bird and his wife. 
Embarrassed again, he stares open-eyed at the ceiling. He looks like a man who knows something is happening but doesn't know what it is. 
Stands With A Fist's eyes are open too. She doesn't move. 
EXT. VILLAGE - DAWN 
The faintest seam of light is starting to glow on the eastern horizon. 
EXT. KICKING BIRD'S LODGE - DAWN 
The camera pans off the tipi to the eastern horizon. 
It's the pony herd. And Dunbar is walking in that direction. His feet leave a trail in the wet grass. 
First one, then two, then whole groups of ponies lift their heads and prick their ears at Dunbar's approach. 
Dunbar walks to the edge of this great sea of horses, he stops and gives a long whistle. 
A figure, previously unseen, sits up on the back of a pony. It's Smiles A Lot. He and Dunbar glance blankly at each other. But in a moment, both are distracted by movement in the herd. 
Horses are being gently eased out of the way by Cisco who is answering Dunbar's call. A moment later and they are reunited at the edge of the herd. 
Grasping a hunk of Cisco's mane, Dunbar starts to lead him back to the village. The temporary camp is starting to come to life. And with Cisco at his side, Dunbar pauses to take in the scene. 
EXT. SEDGEWICK - DUSK 
An escort of six warriors is galloping up the bluff to join the rest of the column as they make their way back to camp. Dunbar looks on, a travois of meat next to him and gives a last wave. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) To stay any longer would've been useless. We had all the meat we could possibly carry. We had hunted for three days, losing half a dozen ponies and only three men injured. Many times I have felt alone but until this afternoon, I have never felt completely lonely. 
INT. QUARTERS - DAY 
The person we see from the waist up bears little resemblance to the Lieutenant Dunbar we've known. 
His long hair hides his face on his slightly bent head. His skin is not so white anymore, and the great bone-pipe breastplate covers his torso. 
Dunbar starts to write and stops, he repeats this action. It is clear that as Lieutenant Dunbar, he can find nothing to say. He lays the pen down momentarily. 
DUNBAR (V.O.) Made a long patrol today. There is nothing to report. The truth is I am bored. 
There is the scurry of movement and the scratch of tiny paws. His eyes roam to the place in the corner where sacks of flour and hard biscuits and other provisions are stored. Watching the sacks more closely, he sees that they are infested with mice. 
Restlessly, he walks to the doorway, gazing out onto the old fort. The awning is beginning to tear at the corner. And then he spots something. 
EXT. QUARTERS - DAY 
A large prairie chicken is lying in front of the quarters. Dunbar squats next to it. It's neck carries punctures, and when he dabs a finger on the wounds, he finds that the blood is still wet. The lieutenant rises slowly, his sharp eyes sweeping the fort. 
He's waiting patiently in his usual spot on the bluff overlooking the river. Two Socks. 
Dunbar smiles and shakes his head. Watching his old friend, he picks up the bird and begins to pluck with an ease that suggests he's had some experience. 
EXT. QUARTERS - NIGHT 
Dunbar hands the pipe back, and as Kicking Bird takes it he hears the light tinkling of bells. 
Dunbar hears it too. As he looks toward the sound, a shadow falls across the arbor's entrance. 
KICKING BIRD We were waiting for you. 
Stands With A Fist ducks through the arbor's entrance and seats herself between Dunbar and Kicking Bird. 
Stands With A Fist is wearing a band of bells around one ankle. She has a pair of simple but pretty moccasins on her feet. Her dress is old but well-cared for. Animal teeth are sewn along her bodice. On her wrist is a solid brass bracelet. Her hair is tied back loosely with a bret, accenting the feminine in her face. 
Her whiteness seems to show more than ever. But it is not dominant. The Sioux is dominant. 
KICKING BIRD (to Dunbar) Welcome. It is good that you are here. 
Kicking Bird looks to Stands With A Fist. She takes her time and the words are accented but they are close enough. 
STANDS WITH A FIST Hullo. You here... good. 
The words are sweet music to the lieutenant. He replies with a feeling of great relief. 
DUNBAR Thank you... I feel good. 
STANDS WITH A FIST (to Kicking Bird) He thanks you. It is good. 
KICKING BIRD Ask him why he is at the soldier fort. 
STANDS WITH A FIST (to Dunbar) Uhh... you... come... 
Dunbar jumps in. There are things he wants to know, has waited a long time to know. 
DUNBAR Wait... what is your name? 
STANDS WITH A FIST Our... names? 
KICKING BIRD What does he say? 
STANDS WITH A FIST He wants to know how we are called. 
KICKING BIRD Ahhh... He's right. I'm sorry. 
The medicine man nods agreeably. He smiles at Dunbar, quite right, introductions should come first. 
STANDS WITH A FIST He... he... Kick... 
DUNBAR Kick? 
STANDS WITH A FIST More. 
She kicks at the ground with the toe of her moccasin. Dunbar doesn't get it. She kicks a little harder. 
DUNBAR Kicking? 
STANDS WITH A FIST Kicking... yes... Kicking... Bird. 
DUNBAR (to Kicking Bird) Kicking Bird... (to Stands With A Fist) What does he... is he a chief? 
Stands With A Fist has the word but it takes a few seconds to make it come out of her mouth. 
STANDS WITH A FIST Hul... hal... ho-lee... holy... holy man. 
DUNBAR Oh... (glancing at Kicking Bird) 
A brief silence. Kicking Bird seems ready to speak but Dunbar is too quick. 
DUNBAR (to Stands With A Fist) Your name... you. 
She thinks. It's hard. She smiles thinly. 
STANDS WITH A FIST I don't know. 
An idea comes to her. She stands up quickly. 
DUNBAR Up? Get up? 
STANDS WITH A FIST No. 
She repeats the movement again. 
DUNBAR Stand. 
Her smile is a little wider this time. 
STANDS WITH A FIST Yes... Stands. 
Dunbar starts to speak but she cuts him off. 
STANDS WITH A FIST More... (thinking) Wiff... (quickly) With. 
She draw something in the dirt. It's an "A". 
DUNBAR Stands With A... 
Now she makes a fist and holds it close to Dunbar's face. 
DUNBAR Fist? 
She nods. 
DUNBAR Stands With A Fist. I'm John... John Dunbar. 
STANDS WITH A FIST John Dunbar. 
DUNBAR Yes. 
EXT. VILLAGE - DAY 
She smiles and tries again. 
STANDS WITH A FIST (in english) That man is a fighter. 
He really wants to get one right on the first try. His brows come together as he concentrates. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Again. 
He listens hard. 
STANDS WITH A FIST That man is a fighter. 
Dances With Wolves thinks some more. When he speaks it is with quiet confidence. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES (in english) Alright... I have it... (in Sioux) That man... 
STANDS WITH A FIST Yes... 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Is... 
Dances With Wolves' eyes get big. He leans forward for emphasis his whole face lit with the joy of having the right answer. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES A... bone! 
Stands With A Fist doubles up and falls onto her side, laughing all the way. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES A bone... right? 
Stands With A Fist doesn't really hear. She's rocking back and forth on the floor of the arbor, laughing so hard that her eyes are tearing. 
Her laughter subsides to an occasional chuckle but Dances With Wolves is quiet. He gazes at her face. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES What is the word for beautiful? 
Stands With A Fist hesitates in her answer, meeting his gaze. A little boy pokes his head in. 
LITTLE BOY What are you doing here? 
The moment is broken. Stands With A Fist brings herself to respond. 
STANDS WITH A FIST It is hot. We are sitting in the shade. 
This makes so much sense to the little boy that he trots in and flings himself on Stands With a Fist's lap. Then a squirm or two. 
LITTLE BOY I'm hungry. 
STANDS WITH A FIST Alright. 
Stands With A Fist leads the little boy off to a lodge. Dances With Wolves watches her walk away. From out of nowhere, Smiles A Lot appears. He's been milling about the arbor eavesdropping, and looks over to Dunbar with a teasing smile. 
SMILES A LOT ...a bone. 
INT. KICKING BIRD'S LODGE - NIGHT 
Black Shawl is settling the youngest children in for bed, Stands With A Fist is playing with the oldest of the children. They're setting up a child's tipi. 
BLACK SHAWL How is Dances With Wolves? 
Stands With A Fist stares straight ahead as if she were wondering the same thing. Which she was. 
STANDS WITH A FIST What do you mean? 
BLACK SHAWL How is he learning? 
STANDS WITH A FIST He learns well... he is fast. 
Case closed, she goes back to playing and Black Shawl continues putting the kids to bed. 
She looks again at Stands With A Fist wondering "what did you think I meant?" 
EXT. KICKING BIRD'S LODGE - DAY 
Dunbar is sitting on Cisco. It's plain he's been waiting for someone. 
Stands With A Fist pulls aside the lodge flap, she's lugging a couple water bags. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES You go for water? 
His Sioux is perfect, and she smiles. 
STANDS WITH A FIST Yes. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Let us take you. 
EXT. RIVER TRAIL - DAY 
Cisco makes his way down the river trail, he shies at the flurry of wings as a covey of quail fly up before them. Stands With A Fist tightens her grip around Dances With Wolves waist. 
EXT. RIVER - DAY 
Stands With A Fist draws water into a set of bladder bags. Dances With Wolves squats next to her, staring at the eddying stream. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES How did you get your name? 
Stands With A Fist smiles to herself as she fills up the last of the bags. 
STANDS WITH A FIST I was not very old when I came to be with the people... I was made to work. 
She lugs the filled bags onto shore and sits next to Dances With Wolves. 
STANDS WITH A FIST I worked every day... very hard... there was a woman who didn't like me. She called me bad names... sometimes she beat me. One day she was calling me these bad names, her face in my face, and I hit her. I was not very big, but she fell down. She fell hard and didn't move. I stood over her with my fist and asked if any other woman wanted to call me bad names... (laughing at the recollection) No one bothered me after that day. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES I would not think so. 
A little silence. 
BLACK SHAWL You can't, he is gone. 
Stands With A Fist bolts up, racing to the lodge flap -- she pulls it aside and is stunned by the sight of Dances With Wolves' abandoned lodge -- Cisco is nowhere to be seen. 
She turns away, tears coming to her eyes. Black Shawl is beside her watching -- the girl's emotions have betrayed her. 
Black Shawl takes the crying girl into her arms. A child runs into the lodge but Black Shawl indicates "not now." 
The message is clearly understood, and the child digs in his heels and heads the other way. 
EXT. FORT - DAY 
The breeze is up and the remaining shreds of canvas that were once the awning are flying like tattered flags. 
Leading Cisco, Dances With Wolves walks into view. It will be his last visit to his old home and he is taking his time. 
He watches the blowing canvas. The sound of it snapping is all that can be heard. 
He steps over to the supply house. He starts to peer in, but when he places a hand against the sod, part of the wall gives way. 
INT. QUARTERS - PAY 
Part of the old bed has collapsed but some of it is still strong enough for support and here Dances With Wolves is sitting as he leafs through his beloved journal. 
He reads a little entry here and there, sometimes smiling at the memory. 
A few blank pages remain at the back of the book. Reaching these he closes the journal and holds it on his lap, letting his mind run for a moment. 
Now he notices the old pen and ink. He picks them up and opens the journal for one last entry. 
He writes: "I love Stands With A Fist" and signs himself "Dances With Wolves." 
Something is moving outside and Dunbar stops, drawing his gun out. He drops the book on the bed and carefully moves outside. 
EXT. QUARTERS - DAY 
Lying in the sun a few feet away is Two Socks. He looks up hopefully at Dances With Wolves. The two partners stare at each other for a moment. 
Then Dances With Wolves reaches into a little day pouch at his side and pulls out a strip of jerky. He squats close to the ground and offers the meat to the wolf. 
Two Socks is up now. He takes several tentative steps. His nose sniffs at the meat and he opens his mouth. Teeth and fingers touch as the wolf takes the meat delicately. 
Now, in his customary style, he moves away, heading out onto the prairie with his prize. 
Dances With Wolves watches a moment longer. Then he vaults onto Cisco's back and they canter off in the direction of the village. 
EXT. RIVERSIDE - DAY 
Stands With A Fist is wading through the water, her mind is far away. 
In a moment there is a shift in the wind. The rustling of the trees alerts her to a presence she had not thought to feel before. 
Gradually, she raises her eyes to see the figure of a man moving through the trees... Dances With Wolves. 
Stands With A Fist walks slowly out of the water. He opens his arms and she melts into them, letting her head rest against his chest. 
STANDS WITH A FIST I am in mourning. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES I know... Stone Calf told me. 
She presses her body full against his, feeling all of him. 
STANDS WITH A FIST No one can know... we must be careful. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Yes. 
STANDS WITH A FIST We must be careful. 
She climbs higher into his arms for a moment. Then, supporting each other, the lovers move into the cover of the willow breaks along the river. 
EXT. RIVER PATH - DAY 
The path leading to the river is deserted. 
Suddenly, a couple steps out of the cover of the willows alongside the path. Stands With A Fist and Dances With Wolves look up and down the path. They start for the village, holding hands. 
As they near the top of the trail their hands part. A few steps later and someone calls from the bushes startling Dances with Wolves. 
SMILES A LOT What are you doing? 
Smiles A Lot, Worm and Otter are sitting pathside. Worm is holding a sack. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Nothin'. 
Smiles A Lot looks to Stands With A Fist. 
STANDS WITH A FIST Nothin'. 
Worm opens the sack. A large, wriggling snake lies in the bottom. 
WORM We got a snake. 
OTTER We're gonna see if it can swim the river. You wanna come? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Okay. 
The two parties split up and everyone says goodbye to Stands With A Fist. She makes her way up to the village. 
Dances With Wolves watches her go. Turning back to head down to the river, he is greeted by the open hissing mouth of Worm's snake. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Don't do that! 
Worm and Otter laugh and race off down the path. 
Smiles A Lot and Dances With Wolves follow, Dances With Wolves a little ahead. Something on his back, something curious, has captured Smiles A Lot's attention. 
The war party with Kicking Bird and Wind In His Hair at its head has halted in the middle of nowhere. The Sioux riders are coming toward them at a run. They pull up, excited with what they have to tell. 
The returning war party and the two riders who met them start ahead at a gallop. 
INT. KICKING BIRD'S LODGE - NIGHT 
Black Shawl and Stands With A Fist are clearing things away. The medicine man has hosted a dinner party which is now winding down. 
Wind In His Hair is there, Dances With Wolves and several other prominent warriors. It's purely social and all the men are enjoying themselves. 
Dances With Wolves sneaks a look of affection at Stands With A Fist, and she returns it. 
Then, with more theatricality than is really necessary, he stretches his arms and yawns. Wind In His Hair looks at his friend with surprise. 
Dances With Wolves gets to his feet. 
WIND IN HIS HAIR There is gambling tonight... at Horse Back's lodge. Horse Back's games are always good. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES I am tired... and Horse Back already has a good rifle of mine. (to Kicking Bird) thank you... (to all) goodnight. 
He slips out. In a few seconds, the men have pick up another topic to jawbone. 
They pay no attention to Stands With A Fist's momentary exit, But Black Shawl does, it doesn't bother her, but she notices. 
INT. KICKING BIRD'S LODGE - NIGHT 
The medicine man's wife is already in bed as he slips under the covers with a grunt. 
BLACK SHAWL How long will Stands With A Fist mourn? 
Kicking Bird gives his wife an odd look. 
KICKING BIRD I don't know. 
BLACK SHAWL I hope it will not be too long. 
Kicking Bird rises on his elbows. 
KICKING BIRD Something has happened? Well what? 
BLACK SHAWL She has found love again. 
KICKING BIRD With who? 
BLACK SHAWL Dances With Wolves. 
KICKING BIRD Are you certain of this? 
BLACK SHAWL When you see them together you will know. 
Kicking Bird stares wearily across the floor. 
KICKING BIRD What are people saying? They're not angry? 
BLACK SHAWL No. They like the match. It makes sense. They are both white. 
KICKING BIRD I suppose I will be the one to say something. 
A brief silence. 
BLACK SHAWL She's your daughter now. 
Kicking Bird glances up frustrated with himself. 
BLACK SHAWL You can't see everything coming. 
EXT. INDIAN VILLAGE - DAY 
Stands With A Fist is walking through the village with Kicking Bird's youngest child. They're both carrying armloads of firewood. 
Here comes Kicking Bird. He's out of breath. 
KICKING BIRD Stands With A Fist. 
STANDS WITH A FIST Yes. 
KICKING BIRD You are no longer a widow. 
Kicking Bird turns abruptly and stalks off, leaving Stands With A Fist to ponder the meaning of his curt announcement. A smile gradually works onto her face. 
INT. DANCES WITH WOLVES' LODGE - DAY 
Dances With Wolves sits waiting as a voice comes to him from the outside. 
Wind In His Hair's face pokes through the entrance. He steps inside, followed by Smiles A Lot. 
WIND IN HIS HAIR There's talk that you want to get married. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES To who? 
Wind In His Hair and Smiles A Lot share a smile. 
SMILES A LOT To Stands With A Fist. 
WIND IN HIS HAIR That's the one isn't it? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES She's in mourning. 
SMILES A LOT Not today. 
WIND IN HIS HAIR She has been released. Kicking Bird did it. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES He did? 
Wind In His Hair isn't really listening. He glances around the lodge curiously. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Yes. 
KICKING BIRD Good, then take her inside... she is your wife. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Oh... good... thank you... goodbye... 
The newlyweds disappear into their new home. The flap is dropped and there it stays. The light begins to change, growing darker, the wind comes up, blowing leaves against the door. In the distance there is thunder. 
EXT. INDIAN VILLAGE - DAY 
The lodge flap is still closed. But now it is covered in sunshine. 
Smiles A Lot, Worm and Otter are just across the way, bundled now against the chill of oncoming winter. They're watching too. Smiles A Lot is standing next to Worm, -- Otter is on his haunches. Both are gnawing at a breakfast of dried meat as they talk nonchalantly. 
WORM Dances With Wolves' door is closed alot these days. 
SMILES A LOT They're trying to make a baby. 
The two older boys look down at Otter. 
OTTER I know that. 
SMILES A LOT You would think they could have made a baby by now. 
WORM Maybe they're having a hard time. Some people have a hard time. 
SMILES A LOT I don't think they're having a hard time. 
OTTER Me neither. 
A silence as the boys watch smoke curl out of the lodge. Worm laughs to himself. 
OTTER Maybe we should pull the smoke flap closed. Then they would come out. 
The boys look at each other for the first time, their eyes brightening. What a great idea! 
The two boys are stalking toward Dances With Wolves' lodge when they see something that makes them peel off in another direction. 
It's Kicking Bird, coming to call. 
KICKING BIRD Dances With Wolves, are you in there? 
In a moment the lodge flap opens and Dances With Wolves steps outside. He's fully dressed but a little disheveled. 
KICKING BIRD I am riding today to a far away place. It is a place I haven't seen for a long time. A sacred place. I would like you to come with me. 
Dances With Wolves ponders this. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
Kicking Bird and Dances With Wolves are cantering side by side across the open prairie. 
They pull their horses to a walk and Kicking Bird glances Dances With Wolves' direction. 
Dances With Wolves' glances back and smiles. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES It's good to be out. 
KICKING BIRD Yes it must be. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES We are trying for a baby. 
KICKING BIRD No waiting? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES No waiting. 
The medicine man keeps looking at his protege. There is virtually no semblance of Lieutenant Dunbar left. 
KICKING BIRD I was just thinking that of all the trails in this life, there is one that matters more than all the others. It is the trail of a true human being. I think you are on this trail and it is good to see. 
Dances With Wolves doesn't reply, but he is blushing a little. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
Dances With Wolves and Kicking Bird gallop their horses to the crest of a steep hill and rein to a halt. 
Down below, miles distant, is the curving line of a river. But there is a section of river, directly before them, that cannot be seen. It is screened by a mammoth stand of trees, some of them towering a hundred feet or more. 
He glances at Dances With Wolves but his companion doesn't see. He's staring in wonder at the great forest before him. 
KICKING BIRD It is said that all the animals were born here... that from here they spread over the prairies to feed all the people. Even our enemies say this is a sacred place. 
They start toward the river at a walk. 
EXT. BROKEN FOREST - DAY 
The two riders come out of the sunlight and onto a shaded path leading into the forest. They've only gone a few yards when Kicking Bird pulls to a stop. The men sit on their horses in complete silence. Dances With Wolves is still fully entranced. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES It's quiet. 
But Kicking Bird does not acknowledge his companion's words. He seems to be concentrating on the quiet. The quiet is wrong and Kicking Bird knows it. He moves forward slowly. 
Following behind Kicking Bird, Dances With Wolves' attention is focused on the tree tops above him. A curious buzzing sound has started up and is growing louder by the moment. Perhaps there are bees swarming in the branches overhead. 
Now he is distracted by Cisco coming to a stop. Kicking Bird too has stopped. Just ahead the forest opens into an incredible cathedral-like expanse. Sunlight streams down onto the floor in beautiful pools. 
But still there is a deathly quiet and Dances With Wolves can see now that this remarkable place has been horribly desecrated. 
Trees have been felled everywhere, most of them left to rot for no explicable reason. 
At the same time he sees this destruction Dances With Wolves realizes that the strange buzzing sound is not coming from overhead but from the forest floor. 
The insects are not bees. They are flies and they are swarming over dozens of carcasses strewn over the ground. Badgers, skunks, squirrels and other small animals, nearly all of them killed merely for target practice. 
The men and their ponies move on. Deer carcasses are everywhere, many of them horribly mutilated. A choice flank portion is cut away here and there, while ninety-five percent of the bodies have been left to rot. 
The soldiers in the wagon, a collection of pimply-faced teen- agers and middle-aged rabble, are aiming their rifles. Cisco rears high in the air as the volley is fired from the wagon. 
Dances With Wolves is pitched off to one side, landing hard on the ground. When he gets his senses back the first thing he sees is Cisco. The buckskin is lying very still. 
Oblivious to the shouts of the soldiers racing toward him, Dances With Wolves runs crab-like to his horse's side. 
Cisco's been shot several times, one bullet taking him in the heart. He's dead. 
Dances With Wolves whirls to face the soldiers. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES You killed him... 
That's the last thing he says. A rifle stock slams into the side of his face and as soldiers swarm over him, everything goes black. 
EXT. COLUMN - DAY 
Ten Bears village is on the trail. Kicking Bird is riding down the line. He notices Stands With A Fist. She is terribly distraught. 
Kicking Bird glances at the sun. The day is more than half- over. He kicks his pony back up the line next to Wind In His Hair. 
KICKING BIRD Something has happened... Dances With Wolves is not coming. 
WIND IN HIS HAIR He must have trouble. 
KICKING BIRD Pick two good men with fast ponies and send them back to the soldier fort. 
INT. SUPPLY HOUSE - DAY 
Dances With Wolves lies unconscious on the floor of the ruined supply house. One side of his face is grotesquely swollen from the blow he took. Blood still seeps from a long split of the skin along his cheek. 
He groans. Voice are playing about his ears, the voices of white men. He opens his eyes. 
A bearish, bearded SERGEANT BAUER, is squatting directly in front of him. Behind the sergeant, peering over the crumbled walls like visitors at a zoo, are a crowd of ordinary soldiers. 
BAUER Spivey... 
A pitiful looking man, SPIVEY, who is a soldier by name only, answers up. 
SPIVEY Yessir sergeant... 
SERGEANT BAUER Tell the major he's wakin' up... and move your worthless ass. 
The sergeant's smallish eyes are fixed on Dances With Wolves. With some effort he manages to get himself into a sitting position against the back wall. 
SERGEANT BAUER Got yourself a helluva shiner, didn't ya? 
Dances With Wolves only blinks at him. His cheek is crushed and so is his spirit. 
Someone calls attention and two officers walk into the roofless supply house. One is a MAJOR, one is a young lieutenant -- Lieutenant Elgin -- the officer Dances With Wolves bumped into at Fort Hays. Neither one recognizes the other. 
MAJOR Does he speak english? 
SERGEANT BAUER Don't know sir... you speak english? Talk english? (kicking at one of Dances With Wolves' boots) Talk? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES I speak english... 
Everyone is shocked at the clarity of the words. 
MAJOR Who are you? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Lieutenant John. J. Dunbar. This is my post. 
MAJOR Why are you dressed like this? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES I came out from Fort Hays last April. But there was no one here. 
The major and the lieutenant exchange whispers. 
ELGIN You have proof of that? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES My journal is on the bunk in my quarters. My orders are in the journal. It will tell you everything. 
ELGIN Spivey, you and Edwards were here first. Did you find anything... a journal. 
Spivey shifts uncomfortably. 
SPIVEY We didn't see nothin' sir. 
ELGIN Where's Edwards? 
SPIVEY He's outside. But he didn't see nothin' either. 
Elgin indicates to the major that he will get to the bottom of this and walks out the door -- the major follows. 
Dances With Wolves lets his head slump forward. The men gathered around the supply house murmur among themselves, commenting on the prisoner. They can't take their eyes off him. Neither can Sergeant Bauer. He watches the prisoner from a distance. Then he walks across the floor, squats in front of him and whispers coarsely in his face. 
SERGEANT BAUER You turned Injun, din'cha? 
Dances With Wolves lifts his head and stares at the sergeant. 
SERGEANT BAUER Din'cha? 
The major and the lieutenant suddenly reappear. 
ELGIN What is your name? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Dunbar... D.U.N.B.A.R... John. 
ELGIN You say you are an officer? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Did you read my orders? 
ELGIN No. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES It was in my journal. 
Dances With Wolves sticks a toe under the lip of the plate and flips it over. Most of it hits Spivey, a little splashes on Bauer. Spivey moves to kick the prisoner, but Bauer intercedes with his rifle. 
SERGEANT BAUER Go on ahead Injun... You'll just get hungrier is all... but mebbe that don't matter. Word is they're gonna ship you back to Hays. And they'll hang you once you get there. 
Bauer and Spivey leave him and Dances With Wolves kicks out viciously at the spilled plate. 
EXT. TEMPORARY CAMP - DAY 
There's a tremendous upheaval. Ten Bears' band has halted its march. SIX PAINTED WARRIORS all heavily armed are jumping onto their ponies and being handed the lines to spare mounts. Wind In His Hair is their leader. 
The whole village is up to see them off. 
Smiles A Lot, painted and carrying a bow and quiver rides into the midst of the group. Wind In His Hair studies the resolute boy. 
WIND IN HIS HAIR You will hold our horses... nothing more. 
Smiles A Lot nods. 
With a great whooping from the villagers, the rescue party roars out of camp. 
EXT. SEDGEWICK - DAY 
The wagon is pulling out with an escort of SEVEN SOLDIERS. 
Dances With Wolves' spirits are very low as he sits in the bed of the jolting wagon. Spivey is guarding him.  Elgin is leading the detail. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY. 
Dances with Wolves watches a ridge in the distance for any sign of riders. 
SPIVEY I don't see nobody. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
Elgin and one of the escort soldiers are scouting far out on the prairie. The lieutenant pauses and looks back at the wagon. It is far behind in the distance, but still coming. 
EXT. WAGON - DAY 
Dances With Wolves is dozing as the wagon jolts across the ground. Suddenly a shot rings out. Dances With Wolves opens his eyes. 
The wagon driver is aiming his rifle out at something on the prairie. He fires again. 
Dances With Wolves looks over the wagon bed and sees Two Socks. He's standing still, fifty yards away. Staring in his old inquisitive way at the wagon. 
SPIVEY Lookit the stupid bastard... he ain't even runnin'. 
Two shots ring out in rapid succession. 
BAUER Don't shoot, I seen 'em first... it's my shot. 
Sergeant Bauer fires his own round. Everyone has missed. Bauer is jamming another cartridge into the chamber. 
DRIVER It's my shot goddamit. 
Now Spivey decides to get into the act. He rises up with his rifle aiming. 
SPIVEY You dumb sons a bitches. 
Before he can fire, there's a rattling of chains. And the next moment, Spivey's feet are being pulled out from under him by Dances With Wolves. His rifle fires harmlessly into space. 
Bauer turns from the wagon seat and slams the back of the prisoner's head with the gunstock. Dances With Wolves falls back, letting go of the shaken Spivey. 
Bauer smiles at Spivey contemptuously. 
BAUER He mighta killed you. 
In the next instant, Spivey gives Dances With Wolves a resounding crack in the sternum with the butt of his rifle and he goes down on his back. 
More shots are fired. Dazedly, Dances With Wolves looks out and sees Two Socks still running parallel to the wagon. 
There's another shot and then shouting. 
SOLDIER 1 I got him... 
SOLDIER 2 The hell you did... 
SOLDIER 1 I got him... dead shot boys. 
Spivey is still poking Dances With Wolves. 
SPIVEY You want more?... get up... get up. 
ELGIN Spivey! 
Elgin has ridden alongside the wagon. 
ELGIN I see you bash the prisoner once more and I'll put those shackles on you... 
Elgin's men are headed up towards Two Socks when shots ring out. 
ELGIN You men! Get back to your places. 
The camera continues over the hill to Two Socks' body, but it is no where in sight. Instead the Indian war party of six is waiting silently in ambush. Frustrated, they will try again. 
EXT. RIVERBANK - DAY 
The wagon is making its way steadily down, toward the river. Dances With Wolves watches the line of growth along the river get closer, his eyes and ears and nose full alert. 
If they come this will be the place to do it. Dances With Wolves will make the most of this hope. 
The wagon moves down a narrow pathway, not much more than a game trail. The lieutenant raises his hand and the wagon halts at the river's edge. 
A soldier rides back and forth in the water on the other side of the river. He's checking for any signs of ambush. The soldier starts back to them. 
SOLDIER All clear lieutenant... 
DANCES WITH WOLVES What ever is on your mind. 
STANDS WITH A FIST We have decided. You are my husband. I am your wife. That is all I know. 
Dances With Wolves lays his forehead on her back. He sighs. Then he pulls away, slips a robe around his shoulders and walks out of the lodge. 
Sadly, she watches him go. 
EXT. PRAIRIE - DAY 
We follow a pair of boots walking in the snow. Pan up to find an ORDERLY bringing coffee to a MAJOR. He is surrounded by other officers and in front of him a large column of men is moving toward the snow covered mountains. 
The Major tosses the remaining coffee in a fire and he prepares to mount. 
We pan up with the smoke and the steam. 
EXT. TEN BEARS' LODGE - DAY 
It's cold in the Sioux camp. A warm column of smoke is spiraling out of Ten Bears' lodge. 
INT. TEN BEARS' LODGE - DAY 
Several men are gathered around Ten Bears' fire, including Kicking Bird, Wind In His Hair and Dances With Wolves. 
All the men are draped with blankets. The wind is howling outside. The men are engaged in small talk as the pipe goes around the circle. 
The pipe comes around to Dances With Wolves, and the man next to him must nudge him to attention. Dances With Wolves takes the pipe and begins to smoke. 
Ten Bears watches him closely. 
TEN BEARS (to Dances With Wolves) Dances With Wolves is quiet these days. 
He does not reply. He smokes a little more and passes the pipe. 
TEN BEARS Is his heart bad? 
Dances With Wolves glances at the men around the fire. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Killing the soldiers at the river was a good thing. It made me free and my heart was big to see my friends coming to help me. I did not mind killing those men. I was glad to do it. 
He searches for the right words. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES But the soldiers hate me now like they hate no other. I am more than an enemy to them, I am a traitor. They will hunt for me. They will not give up. And when they find me they find you and that cannot happen. 
Objections break out all around the fire. Wind In His Hair jumps to his feet and even Kicking Bird is protesting. 
TEN BEARS Quiet!... sit down Wind In His Hair. You are hurting an old man's ears with your loud talk. 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
The column of soldiers can be heard but not seen. They are moving forward, singing the Battle Hymn of The Republic. 
INT. DANCES WITH WOLVES' LODGE - DUSK 
Stands With A Fist is building up the fire in their cozy home. Dances With Wolves works on a long-stemmed pipe which is in the last stages of completion. 
TEN BEARS (O.S.) Dances With Wolves? 
Dances With Wolves gets up, opens the flap and admits the old chief. A few snowflakes cling to his wispy hair. 
He goes straight to the fire and sits. 
TEN BEARS Ahh... this is a nice fire... at my age a good fire is better than anything. 
Stands With A Fist brings two small bowls of food, places them next to the men and busies herself with something else. Though neither one is much interested they begin to eat. 
TEN BEARS I wondered how your bad heart was doing and though I would come by and see for myself. This place doesn't look so bad-hearted. 
Dances With Wolves smiles. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES No, we are happy. 
TEN BEARS But you are leaving anyway? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES I have talked with Stands With a Fist and we will go together. 
TEN BEARS Have you told this to Kicking Bird or to Wind In His Hair. 
It's anguish for Dances with Wolves to think about his friends. He shakes his head "no". Ten Bears thinks again in silence. 
TEN BEARS You are the only white man I have ever known. I have thought about you alot. More than you know. 
DANCES WITH WOLVES That does not surprise me. 
TEN BEARS You have always spoken with your heart. And like all of us, you are a free man and can do anything you like. When I look across this fire, I do not see a white soldier. I see only a Sioux named Dances With Wolves. And there is nothing they hate so much as a Sioux. 
Ten Bears words always have purpose and as always, he makes his point. 
He pauses for a moment and notices Dances with Wolves' nearly finished pipe. 
TEN BEARS You are making a pipe? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES Yes? 
Ten Bears holds out a hand and Dances with Wolves hands the pipe to him. Ten Bears inspects it briefly. 
TEN BEARS This might be a pretty good pipe... how does it smoke? 
DANCES WITH WOLVES I don't know, I haven't tried it yet. 
TEN BEARS Let's smoke it awhile... it is good to pass the time this way. 
EXT. WINTER CAMP - DAWN 
From a little distance, Wind In His Hair is watching Dances With Wolves' lodge. His face is full of uncertainty and a kind of pain we have never seen before. He is in agony. 
