4. Newspaper presses rolling at high speed. 
5. Newscasters chattering excitedly into their microphones. 
6. A large telephone switchboard with the girls in a frenzy of activity as they try to handle the calls pouring in. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. BASEBALL STADIUM - LONG SHOT 
The players are standing on the field in the crowded stadium, but the game has been interrupted and everyone is listening to the voice on the loudspeaker system. (Actual stock shot would be coverage of some dedication or ceremonial.) 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. PENTAGON OFFICE - CLOSE SHOT 
A Brigadier General speaks in clipped tones into the telephone. There are a couple of other officers in the room. 
BRIGADIER GENERAL (into phone) Get me the Chief of Staff. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. U.S. SENATE OR HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (STOCK) 
A shot, if one is available, of either House listening raptly as an announcement of great import is read by the Chair. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. OFFICE - CLOSE SHOT 
A distinguished-looking government official speaks into the phone with a sense of subdued urgency. 
GOVERNMENTAL OFFICIAL I want to speak to the President. (listens for a moment) I'm sorry -- you'll have to interrupt him. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. RADIO AND TELEVISION STUDIO - MED. SHOT 
A nationally known news commentator -- for purposes of this script let's say Drew Pearson -- is seated before a radio mike. He is also being photographed by TV cameras. In a wall near him is a TV screen which shows what is going out on the air. During the ensuing speech, a man comes in a hands him a sheaf of news bulletins. 
PEARSON Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, this is Drew Pearson. We bring you this special radio-television broadcast to give you the latest information on the landing of the "space ship" in Washington. 
CLOSE SHOT - PEARSON 
PEARSON Government and Defense Department officials are concerned by reports of panic in several large Eastern cities. I am authorized to assure you that so far there is no reasonable cause for alarm. The rumors of invading armies and mass destruction are based on hysteria and are absolutely false. I repeat -- these rumors are absolutely false! 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
PEARSON The ship, designed for travel outside the earth's atmosphere, landed in Washington today at 3:47 p.m., Eastern Standard Time. We still don't know where it came from, but I can reveal that military leaders are considering two possibilities; that it came from some unfriendly power here on earth -- or that it actually arrived from another planet. 
CAMERA PANS to and DOLLIES IN on the TV screen in the wall. On the screen is a shot of the space ship. 
PEARSON'S VOICE (over scene) The ship is resting exactly where it landed two hours ago, and there has been no sign of life from inside it. 
OUR CAMERAL HOLDS on the TV screen. The cuts that follow are inside the frame of the screen: 
EXT. THE MALL - MED. SHOT 
Two platoons of infantry soldiers surround the ship, their rifles at the ready. 
PEARSON'S VOICE (over scene) Troops have been rushed from Fort Myer and they have formed a cordon around the ship. 
MED. SHOT 
showing two machine guns, two Sherman tanks and two 75MM guns. The gun crews are posted for action and all weapons are trained on the space ship. 
PEARSON'S VOICE (over scene) They are supported by machine guns, tanks and artillery. 
MED. SHOT - POLICE CORDON 
Cops are holding back a section of a large crowd, some distance away from the ship. The people are wide-eyed and tense with excitement. 
PEARSON'S VOICE (over scene) Behind police lines, there is a large crowd of curiosity seekers. 
SERIES OF INDIVIDUAL CUTS 
ANOTHER ANGLE - THE TROOPS 
as they react to the full shock of what has happened. Most of them stand rooted to the ground. Several laugh hysterically. A few break and run wildly. 
MED. SHOT - CROWD OF CIVILIANS 
Sudden pandemonium breaks out. Utterly terrified by what they have witnessed, the crowd becomes a wild, milling, screaming mob, concerned only with escape. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT 
He is walking slowly, deliberately, menacingly toward the tank commander who fired on Klaatu. Standing by the debris of his tank, the man is immobilized with terror. The robot starts to reach out to grab him. 
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
lying on the ground. He speaks to Gort sharply, in a strange language. 
KLAATU Gort! Deglet ovrosco! 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT 
He pauses obediently in the act of reaching out for the tank commander. Dropping his arms, he stands motionless and remains that way. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
He has raised himself to a sitting position on the ground, his wounded shoulder giving him considerable pain. The two platoon leaders come into scene hesitantly, badly shaken by the awesome demonstration of power they have seen. They are uncertain as to what they should do. The platoon leader eyes the smashed object on the ground curiously and turns questioningly to Klaatu. With great dignity, Klaatu picks up the broken object, which we see well for the first time. It is a delicately-made tubular telescope, badly smashed. On it are indications of small electronic gadgets. 
KLAATU It was a gift. For your President. (glances at the broken object ruefully) With this he could have studied life on other planets. 
Klaatu lets the object drop with a shrug of mild exasperation. The two lieutenants exchange a helpless look of bewilderment. Then Klaatu raises himself to his feet painfully, holding his wounded shoulder. As he does so, a colonel and a captain come into scene. 
COLONEL (to the lieutenants) Is he all right? 
FIRST PLATOON LEADER Got hit in the shoulder, sir. 
The three junior officers exchange ineffectual glances and look to the colonel, who thinks for a moment before making his decision. 
COLONEL Send for an ambulance. Get him to Walter Reed Hospital right away. 
CAPTAIN Yes, sir. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. SITTING ROOM - WALTER REED HOSPITAL - NIGHT 
There is a door to the corridor and a door to Klaatu's room. In the small sitting room, talking in tones of hushed concern, is a group of men. There's a Major General, a likable man with a chest full of ribbons. There are also a Colonel in command of the hospital, a high-ranking police officer, a couple of medical officers and two civilians. The conversation is interrupted by the entrance from Klaatu's room of a Medical Corps Major, followed by an Army Nurse. 
GENERAL (to Major) How is he? 
MAJOR WHITE He's all right, General... Blood pressure's a little high, but it could be aggravation. 
GENERAL (wryly) Can't blame him. I always get mad when somebody shoots me. 
MAJOR WHITE He still wants to see the President. 
COLONEL (to General) We informed the White House over an hour ago. 
GENERAL (to Major) Didn't drop any hints about where he's from, did he? 
MAJOR WHITE No, sir, he didn't. 
The door to the corridor opens and a worried young Captain enters. 
CAPTAIN Excuse me. (to the Colonel) What about the reporters, Colonel? They're swarming all over the lobby. 
The Colonel turns, in deference, to the General. 
GENERAL (quietly) Tell them there won't be any statement tonight. 
CAPTAIN Yes, sir. (glancing down the corridor) Mr. Harley's here from the White House. 
Harley appears in the doorway, a brief case under his arm. He's a dignified, intelligent member of the White House secretariat. He proceeds uninterruptedly into the room, nodding cordially to the General. 
HARLEY General -- 
GENERAL (indicating Klaatu's room) Right in there, Mr. Harley. 
Harley is thoroughly shaken. The tremendous force and power implicit in Klaatus's manner preclude the possibility of argument. 
HARLEY (after a long thoughtful moment) We could call a special meeting of the General Assembly... But of course the UN doesn't represent all of the nations. 
KLAATU Then why not a meeting of all the Chiefs of State? 
HARLEY (helplessly, but patiently) Believe me, you don't understand. They wouldn't sit down at the same table. 
Growing a little impatient with such nonsense, Klaatu eyes him evenly, speaks with Jovian authority. 
KLAATU I don't want to resort to threats, Mr. Harley. I simply tell you bluntly that the future of your planet is at stake... I suggest you transmit that message to the nations of the Earth. 
The eyes of the two men meet for a long, silent moment. Then Harley rises quietly. 
HARLEY I will make that recommendation to the President. (he picks up his brief case and hat) I must tell you in all honesty that I'm extremely dubious about the results. 
KLAATU (with a half-smile) Apparently I'm not as cynical about Earth's people as you are. 
HARLEY I've been dealing in Earth's politics a good deal longer than you have. (he bows) Goodnight, sir. 
He turns and goes out. 
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
He stares after Harley for a moment, puzzled by this strange and apparently unreasoning world he has come to. He shakes his head in thoughtful, tolerant bewilderment. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. SPACE SHIP - LONG SHOT - NIGHT 
Searchlights have lighted up up the eerie shapes of the space ship and Gort. A circle of soldiers guard the area, while a crew of men can be seen working around the ship. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - AT SHIP 
A Master Sergeant of Engineers, dressed in fatigues, is inspecting the side of the ship carefully. He has an acetylene torch in his had and a welding helmet over his face. The Major General, previously seen in the hospital sitting room, enters and speaks to the Sergeant. 
GENERAL Getting any place, Sergeant? 
SERGEANT (raising his helmet) No, sir. (shaking his head in annoyance) Beats me, General. I saw that ramp come out of the side of the ship -- right here. Now I can't even find a crack! 
A man named Carlson, a civilian metallurgical expert, comes into scene. The General nods to him. 
GENERAL What's the report, Carlson? 
CARLSON (discouraged) We've tried everything from a blowtorch to a diamond drill. 
GENERAL (nodding toward Gort) What about him? 
CARLSON He's made out of the same stuff. 
THREE SHOT – GENERAL, CARLSON AND SERGEANT 
GENERAL Has he moved? 
SERGEANT No sir. Not an inch 
CARLSON This is the toughest material I ever saw, General. For hardness and strength, it's out of this world. 
GENERAL (with a wry half-smile) I can tell you officially -– that's where it came from. 
The two men exchange an uneasy glance, then turn to look at the ship. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. SITTING ROOM – WALTER REED HOSPITAL 
Two Medical Corps officers, a Captain and a Major are interestedly studying a series of X-ray films. 
MAJOR The skeletal structure is completely normal. (pointing) Same for the major organs -– heart, liver, spleen, kidneys. 
CAPTAIN And the lungs are the same as ours. Must mean a similar atmosphere -- similar pressure. (nodding, toward Klaatu's room) How old do you think he is? 
MAJOR Oh, I'd say forty-five. 
CAPTAIN (smiling) He told me this morning when I examined him. He's seventy-eight. 
HARLEY Under the circumstances I'm afraid that will be impossible. 
Harley has paused near the door, a little embarrassed by Klaatu's level gaze. 
HARLEY I must ask that you don't attempt to leave the hospital. Our military people have insisted on this. I'm sure you'll understand. 
With a polite nod, he goes out. Klaatu stares after him as he realizes that he is in effect a prisoner. He shakes his head slowly, thoughtfully. The ways of this planet are strange indeed. 
INT. SITTING ROOM - MED CLOSE SHOT - AT DOOR 
Harley has paused to watch as the M.P. takes out a key and inserts it in the lock of Klaatu's door. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
As he hears the click of the lock, he turns toward the door. Realizing they've locked him in, he smiles with tolerant amusement. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. HOSPITAL SITTING ROOM - MED CLOSE SHOT - NIGHT 
In the dim light of one lamp, the door to the corridor opens and a nurse enters carrying a tray of medication. She is accompanied by the same M.P. as previously seen. The nurse pauses as the M.P. takes out a key and inserts it in the lock of Klaatu's door. To his surprise he finds that the door is not locked. He exchanges a glance with the nurse, then pulls the door open and hurries inside. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM 
as the M.P. crosses the unlighted room toward the bed. The only light cones from the open door to the sitting room. The M.P.'s eyes go wide as he looks at the bed. It is unmade and unoccupied. Terrified, the M.P. turns to the nurse, who is standing in the doorway. 
M.P.  He's gone! 
The M.P. dashes out of the room, through the doorway past the nurse. She turns to follow him as we-- 
DISSOLVE TO: 
MONTAGE - NIGHT 
A series of short DISSOLVES, showing: 
1. The M.P. excitedly reporting Klaatu's disappearance to the Officer of the Day. 
2. The hospital guard detail hurrying out of the guardhouse to form up in front of the Sergeant of the guard. 
3. A high-level military conference gathered at a table, discussing the matter with great concern. 
4. A street corner newsstand, with people eagerly grabbing papers. The headline reads: "MAN FROM MARS" ESCAPES FROM ARMY HOSPITAL! 
5. Radio announcers chattering excitedly into their microphones 
6. A series of close-ups of people listening to the radio. Their faces reveal their awestruck terror. 
7. A terrified mother drags her two children in from the street through the front door, slams the door and bolts it. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - MED. CLOSE SHOT - NIGHT 
CAMERA is on the back of a man dressed in a business suit, who is walking along the sidewalk of a dimly lighted, almost deserted, middle-class street. He carries a suitcase and he glances idly at the drab-looking stone facades of the old two-story houses. As he passes, from the open windows of the houses come the voices of radio announcers. We get a sentence or two from one house and then, as the man and our CAMERA pass on, this voice fades and another is picked up. We get the impression that everyone is glued to his radio. 
RADIO VOICES (over scene) --authorities at Walter Reed Hospital refused to comment on how he managed to escape, or what measures might be taken to apprehend him. 
--these fantastic descriptions of the creature are denounced as rumor by police Chief Walter Baxter. He is not eight feet tall, as reported -- nor does he have tentacles in place of arms-- 
--there's no denying that there is a monster at large -- that we are dealing with forces beyond our knowledge and power. The public is urged to take ordinary precautions and to remain calm, as we await further developments-- 
--three separate reports of people who claim to have seen the "space man" in the past hour. One from Des Moines, Iowa; one from a village in northern Florida; and one from Chicago. 
CAMERA OVERTAKES the man as he pauses under the light of a street lamp, and reveals that it is Klaatu. He has stopped to look at something out of scene. 
CLOSE SHOT 
from Klaatu's viewpoint, of a sign on one of the houses, reading: ROOM FOR RENT 
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
He seems to hesitate, debating a plan he has in mind. He raises his right arm to scratch his head thoughtfully, and notices for the first time a small tag, or ticket, attached to the inside of the right forearm of the coat he is wearing. Puzzled, he pulls off the ticket and looks at it. 
INSERT - TICKET 
INT. BOARDINGHOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY 
Five of the boarders -- Mr. and Mrs. Barley, Mr. Krull, Helen Benson and Klaatu - are finishing their Sunday morning breakfast. Mrs. Barley is a middle-class Helen Hokinson lady, form and unrelenting. Her husband is a born complainer. Mr. Krull is a shriveled little accountant, precise and finicky. As they finish their coffee, all except Helen are immersed in the Sunday papers. Helen seems preoccupied with her own thoughts. From a portable radio on the table comes Gabriel Heater's voice. 
GABRIEL HEATER'S VOICE --and so, this Sunday morning, we ask the question that's been plaguing; the entire nation for two days now: "Where is this creature and what is he up to?" If he can build a space ship that can fly to Earth -- and a robot that can destroy our tanks and guns -- what other terrors can he unleash at will? ...Obviously we must find this monster. We must track him down like a wild animal and destroy him. 
INSERT - NEWSPAPER PAGE IN MRS. BARLEY'S HANDS 
It is a full page layout, in the style of the American Weekly, showing a demented artist's conception of a mass invasion of space ships. Weird-looking creatures are slaughtering Earth people with ray guns. The caption at the top of the image reads: "Are We Long For This World?" (Gabriel Heater's voice continues uninterruptedly over this and the next two scenes.) 
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
He is reading his paper with considerable interest. 
INSERT - NEWSPAPER STORY 
The third-page story reads: SAVANT CALLS MEETING TO STUDY SPACE SHIP. Professor Jacob Barnhardt, world-famous scientist and Nobel Prize winner, has invited fellow scientists from all over the world to meet with him in Washington and study the recently landed "Space Ship." 
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
His face is thoughtful as he finishes reading. This story seems to impress and interest him. Then suddenly he finds his attention caught at what the Radio Voice is saying. 
GABRIEL HEATER'S VOICE But where would such a creature hide himself? Would he disappear into the north woods? Or would he slither off into the sewers of some great city? 
Klaatu has a reaction of affronted dignity at this monstrously distasteful idea. 
GROUP SHOT 
AS THE RADIO VOICE CONTINUES: 
GABRIEL HEATER'S VOICE There is grave danger -- everyone agrees to that. The question is what can we do to protect ourselves? What measures can we take that will-- 
During the above, Mrs. Barley has turned to her husband in sharp annoyance. 
MRS. BARLEY George, I wish you'd turn that radio off. I'm trying to concentrate. 
Mr. Barley reaches out and snaps off the radio. 
MR. BARLEY (snorting, he tosses his paper down) Why doesn't the Government do something -- that's what I want to know. 
MR. KRULL (mildly) What can they do? They're only people -- Just like us. 
MR. BARLEY People my foot! They're Democrats! 
MR. KRULL It's enough to give you the shakes. He's got that robot standing there -- ten-foot tall -- just waiting for orders to destroy us. 
HELEN (thoughtfully) This space man -- or whatever he is. We automatically assume he's a menace... Maybe he isn't at all. 
MR. BARLEY (glaring at her for this silly notion) Then what's he hiding for? Why doesn't he come out in the open? 
MR. KRULL Yeah. (indicating the radio) Like the fella says: "What's he up to?" 
HELEN Maybe he's afraid. 
MRS. BARLEY (with a derisive snort) He's afraid! 
HELEN After all, he was shot the moment he landed here. (she pauses for a moment thoughtfully) I was just wondering what I would do. 
KLAATU (to Helen, helpfully) Perhaps before deciding on a course of action, you'd want to know more about the people here -- to orient yourself in a strange environment. 
MRS. BARLEY (sharply) There's nothing strange about Washington, Mr. Carpenter. 
KLAATU (quietly, tongue in cheek) A person from another planet might disagree with you. 
MRS. BARLEY If you want my opinion, he came from right here on Earth. (with significant emphasis) And you know where I mean. 
MR. KRULL They wouldn't come in a space ship. They'd come in airplanes. 
MRS. BARLEY (as though with superior knowledge) I wouldn't be so sure about that. 
MR. BARLEY (delivering the final word) Stands to reason that fella wants some thing or he wouldn't be here. (facing Klaatu) That make sense, Carpenter? 
Klaatu pauses for a moment, then recites pleasantly. 
KLAATU I must admit I'm a little confused. 
Bobby looks up at him in bewilderment. After a moment Klaatu speaks slowly, thoughtfully. 
KLAATU Bobby -- who's the greatest man in America today? 
BOBBY (puzzling it over) Gee -- I don't know... The space man, I guess. 
KLAATU (secretly amused) I was speaking of earth men. I meant the greatest philosopher -- the greatest thinker. 
B0BBY You mean the smartest man in the whole world? 
KLAATU Yes -- that would do nicely. 
BOBBY (after a moments thought) Well -- Professor Barnhardt, I guess. He's the greatest scientist in the world. 
KLAATU (he pauses thoughtfully, speaks slowly, as he recalls the newspaper story he read) He lives here in Washington, doesn't he? 
BOBBY Sure. Right near where my mother works. 
KLAATU Where is that? 
BOBBY Department of Commerce. She's a secretary. (Klaatu nods) They have a man they call the Secretary, but he isn't at all. My mother's a real secretary. (after a moment; eagerly) Mr. Carpenter -- now can we go see the space ship? 
EXT. THE MALL - LONG SHOT - SPACE SHIP AND GORT - DAY 
A crew of Army engineers is in process of erecting a temporary structure such as a large Quonset hut or B29 hanger to enclose the space ship and Gort. The walls are partially up and already have concealed part of the ship. The area is roped off and there are Army guards to keep the sightseers back. There is a crowd of people behind the ropes, watching. CAMERA MOVES IN to reveal the backs of Bobby and Klaatu. 
TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY 
Bobby is studying the ship and Gort eagerly, his imagination thoroughly aroused. Klaatu is watching the men at work with mild, quiet amusement. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT 
from Bobby's viewpoint. 
TWO SHOT - BOBBY AND KLAATU 
Bobby's eyes are wide with awe as he watches the giant robot. 
BOBBY Boy, I'll bet he's strong. I bet he could knock down a whole building. 
KLAATU (with a quizzical smile) I shouldn't be at all surprised. 
Bobby's attention shifts to the ship. 
MED. SHOT - SPACE SHIP 
From Bobby's viewpoint. 
TWO SHOT - B0BBY AND KLAATU 
BOBBY (excitedly, indicating the ship) Gee, I'd like to get inside and see how it works. What do you think makes it go? 
KLAATU (quietly, after a glance around) Well -- atomic power, I would imagine. 
BOBBY (looking at Klaatu incredulously) I thought that was only for bombs. 
KLAATU No. It's for a lot of other things, too. 
BOBBY You think it can go faster than an F- 
KLAATU Yes -- I think so. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT KLAATU AND BOBBY 
shooting from a side angle to include a couple of men who are listening to Klaatu's conversation. They are nudging each other, amused at the way this man is pretending to explain things to the little boy. 
BOBBY About a thousand miles an hour? 
Klaatu has noticed the two men, who have edged a little closer to listen. He is not perturbed by them, but he lowers his voice a bit. 
KLAATU Maybe four thousand miles an hour. And outside the Earth's atmosphere a good deal faster. 
BOBBY (excitedly) Gee! How could they make a landing? 
KLAATU Well -- there are several ways to reduce landing speed. You see, the velocity-- 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - SECTION OF BLACKBOARD 
It is covered with a particularly complicated series of equations in a chalky scrawl, involving angles of vector, Keplerian ellipses, etc. The final equations are unsolved; they have no answers after the "equals" sign. Across are little printed signs tacked to the blackboard reading: "Don't erase!" and "Don't touch!" 
TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY 
Bewildered, Bobby looks from the blackboard up at Klaatu. Still studying the blackboard, Klaatu is shaking his head and clucking his tonsure as one might at the attempts of a child to solve a problem in arithmetic. 
BOBBY (indicating the equations) What does that mean? 
KLAATU It's a problem in celestial mechanics. 
BOBBY Bet he's the only one in the world knows the answer. 
KLAATU (he shakes his head, smiling) He doesn't know the answer. And he'll never get it that way. 
Bobby moves over to a pair of French doors beyond the window and tries to peer in through the curtained doors. He absently tries the doors and finds them locked. Then he turns away with a disappointed but philosophical shrug. 
BOBBY We probably couldn't get to see him even if he was home. 
As Bobby moves away from the doors dejectedly, Klaatu puts his hand on the knob. 
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY 
He's watching Klaatu and his eyes widen at what he sees. 
BOBBY (in complete surprise) Hey -- where you going? 
CHOOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
He has opened the door and is standing in the doorway, his hand, still on the knob. He is smiling at Bobby with secret amusement. He's got an idea. 
KLAATU If he's that difficult to see, perhaps we ought to leave a calling card. 
Klaatu disappears into the study. Amazed, Bobby follows. 
INT. BARNHARDT'S STUDY 
Bobby watches as Klaatu walks to the blackboard and picks up a piece of chalk. As though correcting a schoolboy's work, he makes large check marks at several points in each equation. 
EXT. PORCH - BARNHARDT'S HOUSE 
An efficient-looking middle-aged woman is mounting the steps to the entrance, getting her front door key out of her purse, when her eye falls on the French doors, which are standing ajar. Puzzled, she starts down the porch toward the doors. This woman is Barnhardt's secretary and her name is HILDA. 
Bobby is watching as Klaatu writes across the blackboard in a bold hand: Differentiate the equation ( ). 
Klaatu underlines this comment with a sharp stroke, when a stern voice is heard off screen. 
HILDA'S VOICE What are you doing in here? 
FULL SHOT 
as Klaatu and Bobby turn in surprise. Standing in the open French doors is Hilda, eyeing them with stern suspicion. 
HILDA (outraged by Klaatu's desecration of the sacred blackboard) How dare you write on that blackboard! (Klaatu eyes her mildly) Do you realize the Professor has been working on that problem for weeks? 
KLAATU (pleasantly) He'll catch on to it in no time now. 
HILDA (controlling herself with an effort) How did you get in here? And what do you want? 
KLAATU We came to see Professor Barnhardt. 
HILDA Well, he's not here. And he won't be back till this evening. (sternly) I think you'd better leave now. Unruffled, Klaatu turns to the desk and scribbles something on a scratch pad. He tears off the piece of paper and hands it to Hilda. 
KLAATU You might keep this. (with easy assurance) I think the professor will want to get in touch with me. 
With a polite nod he goes out the French doors, followed by Bobby. Hilda eyes the door for a moment, then glances down at the paper in her hand, disturbed and puzzled by this stranger. Her glance wanders to the blackboard and she picks up an eraser, debating whether to erase Klaatu's corrections. At that moment the French door opens and Klaatu sticks his head in. Startled, Hilda drops the eraser. 
KLAATU (pointing to the blackboard) I wouldn't erase that. The Professor needs it very badly. 
And he disappears, leaving Hilda to glare after him in impotent rage. Deciding that this man is either a crackpot or a menace, she goes to the telephone on the desk and starts dialing a number. 
EXT. BARNHARDT'S HOUSE - MED. SHOT 
as Klaatu and Bobby come down the steps and turn into the sidewalk. They are talking and laughing together, but we can't hear their conversation. CAMERA PANS with them as they move on up the sidewalk, revealing two kids playing hopscotch. Klaatu watches, fascinated, as he walks by. Then, having passed the kids, he tries the one-footed, then two-footed hop that characterizes the game. 
KLAATU Some places that's what people use for money. They're easy to carry -- and they don't wear out. 
BOBBY (staring at them fascinated) Bet they're worth about a million dollars. 
KLAATU Would you give me your two dollars for a couple of them? 
BOBBY (with a nervous, unsure smile) Well, sure, but-- 
The boy studies Klaatu's face to see if he's kidding. Realizing that he's not, Bobby's face takes on a childishly shrewd expression -- as though he were about to trade a jackknife for an ocean liner. 
BOBBY (slowly) Okay. 
The boy takes out two dollar bills and offers them almost challengingly. Klaatu takes the bills and hands Bobby two good-sized Diamonds. They study their new acquisitions with interest. Bobby looks up from his diamonds to steal a guilty glance at Klaatu. 
BOBBY Let's not say anything to my mother about this, Mr. Carpenter. 
KLAATU (mildly curious) Why not, Bobby? 
BOBBY (gravely) She doesn't like me to steal from people. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. BOARDINGHOUSE STREET - MED. SHOT - NIGHT 
Shooting toward the curb as a police prowl car drives up and stops in front of the boardinghouse. A Detective in plainclothes gets out and gestures to the uniformed Driver to pull up the street a way and wait. The Driver nods and the car moves off as the Detective crosses the sidewalk to the boardinghouse. 
EXT. BOARDINGHOUSE - MED. CLOSE SHOT 
As the Detective mounts the steps he glances through a window into the living room. Klaatu can be seen reading to Bobby, who is perched happily on the arm of Klaatu's chair. The Detective moves to the front door ant rings the bell. There is the sound of running feet and in a moment the door is opened and Bobby appears. 
DETECTIVE Mr. Carpenter come home yet? 
BOBBY (studying the man curiously) Yeah -- he's right inside. 
INT. DOWNSTAIRS - BOARDINGHOUSE 
DETECTIVE Tell him I'd like to see him. 
BOBBY (calling out) Mr. Carpenter--! (to the Detective) Come on in. 
The Detective steps inside and Bobby closes the door, as Klaatu appears from the living room. 
DETECTIVE Your name Carpenter? 
KLAATU (puzzled that anyone should know him) Yes. (then recalling, with a smile of satisfaction) Oh -- I suppose Professor Barnhardt's looking far me. 
DETECTIVE (dryly, with grim emphasis) I been looking for you all afternoon. 
EXT. BOARDINGHOUSE STREET - MED. SHOT - NIGHT 
An inexpensive convertible -- a 1948 Ford, or Chevrolet -- drives up and stops in front of the house. Helen and Tom are in it. 
INT. CONVERTABLE - TW0 SHOT - HELEN AND TOM 
You get the feeling that Helen and Ton have spent a very enjoyable day together and are reluctant to say goodnight. Tom puts his arm around her and kisses her. 
HELEN (fondly) It was a wonderful day. 
TOM You still haven't answered my question. 
HELEN (warmly sincere) You know how I feel, Tom. I just want to think it over. 
TOM The boss is leaving for Chicago tomorrow. If I could tell him I was getting married -- with two dependents-- 
HELEN (smiling) You're a good salesman -- but I've got to think about it. 
TOM A good insurance salesman wouldn't give you time to think. 
With a smile and, a quick kiss, Helen gets out of the car. 
HELEN 'Night. 
MED. SHOT 
as Helen turns and hurries across the sidewalk to the house. In the entrance she turns and waves to Tom. He waves back and drives off slowly. Helen lets herself in with her key. 
THIRD COP That'll be all, Mr. Baxter. Sorry to bother you... Next. 
CAMERA MOVES ON to a third desk where a small, rat-faced man is standing uneasily before the two cops, one of whom is flipping through a card file. 
FOURTH COP Cappo, John C? (the man nods) Two priors -- one for petty theft -- one for shoplifting. 
FIFTH COP (waving the man away) Okay, Jonny -- you can go. 
MAN (with a nervous grin) Sometimes a record comes in handy. (and he moves off) 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - AT LIEUTENANT'S DESK 
A Detective Lieutenant in plain clothes is questioning Klaatu, who stands beside the Detective who brought him in. The Lieutenant is a rugged but dignified man about fifty, intelligent and businesslike. 
LIEUTENANT The Professor's secretary says she found you in Barnhardt's room, making marks on his blackboard. 
KLAATU I was only trying to be helpful. He was having difficulty with a problem. 
The Lieutenant exchanges a look with the Detective. 
LIEUTENANT (sardonically) Oh, I see. He was having trouble and you were helping him out. 
KLAATU (pleasantly) That's right. 
LIEUTENANT (quietly sharp and accusing) I suppose you know that Barnhardt does a lot of secret work for the Army. 
KLAATU In this case the secret wouldn't be worth much. He doesn't know the answer himself. 
LIEUTENANT (growing impatient) But I suppose you know the answer. 
KLAATU (with a deprecating shrug) It's really quite simple... The three- body problem, you know. 
The lieutenant shifts in his chair, annoyed that he has to deal with this madman. He glances at a report on his desk, trying to control his impatience. 
LIEUTENANT Your name's Carpenter -- that right? (Klaatu nods) Any identification, Mr. Carpenter? Driver's license -- social security number? 
KLAATU No -- I'm afraid not. 
LIEUTENANT Well, how do I know who you are? 
KLAATU (secretly amused) You don't. 
The Lieutenant is turning away in exasperation as a uniformed cop comes into the scene. 
COP Excuse me, Lieutenant -- (pointing offscene) The Doc says this man needs treatment right away. 
MED. SHOT 
A man about forty-five, bloodied and badly beaten, is being supported and half-carried by two policemen. A police doctor is guiding them to a doorway, near which is a sign INFIRMARY. The man is almost unconscious, incapable even of holding up his head. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - AT LIEUTENANT'S DESK 
LIEUTENANT What's the story? 
COP Some fella caught him lookin' in a window and figured he was the space man. The whole neighborhood went crazy and they ganged up on him. Would have killed him if we hadn't come along... Turns out he was just a prowler. 
The Lieutenant grimaces his disgust and impatience with mob violence. 
LIEUTENANT Okay -- book him and get him fixed up. (the cops nods and goes, and the Lieutenant growls as he turns back to Klaatu and the Detective) Looks like everybody's goin' nuts. 
KLAATU (appalled by what he has seen and heard) They would have killed this man? 
LIEUTENANT (gruffly) People get hysterical enough, they do anything. (impatiently) Look, Mr. Carpenter -- if you can't identify yourself, I got to send you over to the Army. 
KLAATU (pretending impatience, but actually growing concerned) How long will that take? 
LIEUTENANT They can tell right away. They've got a couple of doctors who saw this man in the hospital. (to the Detective) Take him over to G2. 
Really concerned now, Klaatu tries to find a way out. He attempts an authoritative air. 
KLAATU It's very important, Lieutenant, that I see Professor Barnhardt. 
DETECTIVE Come on, Mr. Carpenter-- 
Shaking off the Detective's hand, Klaatu speaks to the Lieutenant. 
Barnhardt closes the door and turns to find Klaatu watching him with a faint smile. Barnhardt sinks into a chair, trying to adjust his mind. 
KLAATU (dryly) You have faith, Professor Barnhardt 
BARNHARDT It isn't faith that makes good science, Mr. Klaatu. Its curiosity. (unable to conceal his interest) Sit down, please. I have several thousand questions to ask you. 
KLAATU (ignoring the invitation) I would like to explain something of my mission here. 
BARNHARDT That was my first question. 
KLAATU (with some bitterness) It was my intention to discuss this officially -- with all the nations of the Earth -- but I was not allowed the Opportunity. I have come to realize since that your mutual fears and suspicions are merely the normal reactions of a primitive society. (gathering his thoughts) We know from scientific observation that you have discovered a rudimentary kind of atomic energy. We also know that you are experimenting with rockets. 
BARNHARDT Yes -- that is true. 
KLAATU In the hands of a mature civilization, these would not be considered weapons of aggression. But in the hands of your people-- (he shrugs and shakes his head) We've observed your aggressive tendencies, and we don't trust you with such power. 
BARNHARDT (puzzled) If you mean that you are afraid of us-- 
KLAATU (with cool impressive emphasis) We want to be sure you don't make -- let us say -- an unfortunate mistake. We know the potentiality of these developments and we are disturbed to find them in the hands of children... You see, we've had atomic energy for five thousand of your years. (indicating the telephone) We discarded instruments like this many centuries ago. (he paces thoughtfully) So long as you were limited to fighting among yourselves -- with your primitive tanks and planes -- we were unconcerned. But soon you will apply atomic energy to space ships -- and then you become a threat to the peace and security of other planets. That, of course, we cannot tolerate. 
BARNHARDT (thoughtful and impressed) These other planets -- do they have peace and security? 
KLAATU We had our atomic wars -- thousands of years ago. (he smiles wryly) After that we fought with bows and arrows. Then, slowly, we learned that fighting is no solution -- that aggression leads to chaos. 
BARNHARDT (with deep conviction) We scientists understand this. Even we primitive scientists. (Straightforwardly) What exactly is the nature of your mission, Mr. Klaatu? 
KLAATU I came here to warn you that, by threatening danger, your planet faces danger -- very grave danger. I am prepared, however, to offer a solution. 
BARNHARDT Would you care to be more specific? 
KLAATU (evenly) What I have to say must be said to all concerned. (with a suggestion of deference to Barnhardt) It is too important to be entrusted to any individual. 
Barnhardt is forced reluctantly to accept Klaatu's refusal to go any further. After a moment's thought, he speaks seriously, but with a twinkle in his eye. 
BARNHARDT I gather that your efforts on the official level were not entirely successful. 
KLAATU (sternly, as this unpleasant episode is recalled) I come to you as a last resort -- and I confess that my patience is wearing thin. (with Jovian annoyance) Must I take drastic action in order to get a hearing? 
BARNHARDT (uneasily) What -- what sort of action do you mean? 
KLAATU Violent action -- since that seems to be the only thing you people understand. (quietly) Leveling the island of Manhattan, perhaps -- or dropping the Rock of Gibraltar into the sea. 
Barnhardt stands staring at him for a moment, passes his hand across his brow. Then, as Klaatu watches, Barnhardt paces the floor, trying to digest what he has heard. After a moment, he turns to Klaatu. 
BARNHARDT Would you be willing to meet with the group of scientists I am calling together?. Perhaps you could explain your mission to them, and they in turn could present it to their various peoples. 
KLAATU (quietly, evenly) That's what I came to see you about. 
Barnhardt flings him a glance, then looks momentarily sheepish. But his own eagerness carries him on. He paces the floor thoughtfully. 
BARNHARDT It is not enough to have men of science. We scientists are too easily ignored -- or misunderstood. We must get important men from every field. Educators -- philosophers -- church leaders -- men of vision and imagination -- the finest minds in the world. 
KLAATU I leave that in your hands. 
BARNHARDT You'd have no objection to revealing yourself at this meeting? 
KLAATU No -- not at all. 
BARNHARDT What about your personal safety in the meantime? What about the Army -- and the police? 
KLAATU My name is Carpenter and I'm a very earthy character living in a respectable boarding house. 
BARNHARDT (smiling, but a little concerned) I'm afraid I can't offer you any real protection. I have no influence in cases of inter-planetary conspiracy. 
KLAATU I'm sure I'll be quite safe until the meeting. 
BARNHARDT (he suddenly pauses, thoughtfully) One thing, Mr. Klaatu. Suppose this group should reject your proposals. What is the alternative? 
KLAATU (with a sense of quiet, inescapable power) I'm afraid you have no alternative. In such, a case the planet Earth would have to be-- (he looks for the right word) --eliminated. 
The implications of this statement leave Barnhardt speechless, his keen mind reeling. 
BARNHARDT Such power exists? 
KLAATU I assure you such power exists. 
HELEN (in explanation) I was talking to Mr. Carpenter. 
TOM (lightly, but with real sarcasm underneath) I hope Mr. Carpenter won't think I'm intruding. 
Helen tries to shush him, to indicate Klaatu is in the next room, when Klaatu appears in the doorway. He must have heard Tom's remark, and there is an awkward moment. Klaatu is completely unperturbed, but Helen is embarrassed. 
KLAATU Excuse me. I was just going up to my room. 
HELEN (guiltily) Goodnight, Mr. Carpenter. 
Klaatu stops and turns to face them pleasantly. 
KLAATU Have a good time -- both of you. 
He goes on up the stairs. Helen steers Tom toward the living room. 
HELEN Why don't you wait in here while I get my things? 
INT. LIVING ROOM 
As they enter from the hall, Helen turns to Tom reproachfully. 
HELEN (quietly) Oh, Tom, that was awful. 
TOM (momentary apologetic) I'm sorry. I guess I'm just tired of hearing about Mr. Carpenter. (Helen shushes him) I don't like the way he's attached himself to you and Bobby. After all, what do you know about him? 
This touches on Helen's own private doubts, and she cannot answer. 
HELEN I'll go get my things. 
She turns quickly and goes into the hall and hurries up the stairs. Tom looks after her, dismissing the matter with a shake of the head and a philosophical sigh. Of such stuff are women made. 
INT - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY 
Helen reaches the top of the stairs, crosses to her room and grabs a coat off the bed. She's putting it on as she moves down the hall to Bobby's room, the door of which is open. 
INT. BOBBY'S ROOM 
Bobby is at a table doing his homework and Klaatu has just finished explaining an arithmetic problem to him, as Helen enters, still putting on her coat. 
KLAATU (about to leave) All you have to remember is, first find the common denominator -- then subtract. 
BOBBY Thanks, Mr. Carpenter. 
KLAATU (to Helen, pleasantly) I'll say goodnight again. 
Helen is embarrassed. She would like to apologize for the awkwardness downstairs but she doesn't quite know how to go about it. 
HELEN Mr. Carpenter, I-- (it's too complicated; she can't do it) Goodnight. 
KLAATU (with a warm smile of complete understanding and appreciation) Goodnight, my dear. 
He turns and goes out, closing the door. A little distracted, Helen turns to Bobby. 
HELEN Go to bed, darling. You can finish that in the morning. 
BOBBY Okay. 
Helen watches as he starts to put away his work. She wants to tell him something, but finds it difficult to say. 
HELEN (hesitantly, almost guiltily) Bobby -- I think it would be better if we didn't see quite so much of Mr. Carpenter 
BOBBY (shocked, and bewildered) Gee, why, Mom? He's my best friend... And he's awful good in arithmetic. He even helps Professor Barnhardt. 
HELEN Did you and Mr. Carpenter really go to see Professor Barnhardt? 
BOBBY Sure we did! He wasn't there but we went to see him. And Mr. Carpenter showed him how to do his arithmetic. 
Helen is surprised to get this corroboration for Klaatu's story. Sensing his mother's uneasiness, the boy looks for something intriguing -- some deep, dark secret. 
BOBBY (shrewdly) Mom -- is there something wrong with Mr. Carpenter? 
HELEN What do you mean, dear? 
BOBBY I mean -- on account of that policeman last night. (his eyes light up hopefully) You think he's a bank robber, maybe? Or a gangster? 
as Klaatu maneuvers around the side of the building, where there is a window. It has no glass in it but is heavily barred. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
as he leaves the concealing foliage and crosses the clear, grassy area surrounding the building. He stops and tries to see through the window. 
MED. SHOT - GORT 
shooting through the barred window into the building. The huge robot looms large and eerie in the shadows cast by a couple of naked work-lights. His head is angled, away from the window. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT 
as Klaatu approaches the window. Aiming his flashlight at Gort, he flashes the light intermittently, as though signaling. (This should not approximate any known code.) 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT 
As we watch, the intermittent flashes of Klaatu's light appear on the wall ahead of Gort. Slowly, evenly, the robot's head turns to face the window. 
MED. SHOT 
from Gort's viewpoint, of the window, with Klaatu's light flashing its signals. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
shooting on his back, as he finishes signaling and cuts off the flashlight. He turns ant starts back for the concealment of the foliage. 
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY 
craning his neck to look for Klaatu, who has eluded his view. Suddenly he sees Klaatu again. 
MED. SHOT - KLAATU 
making his way behind the foliage toward the front of the building. Arriving at a point opposite the entrance, Klaatu waits and watches. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - ENTRANCE TO BUILDING 
The two guards are standing in the doorway in positions of relaxed alertness. Suddenly, inside the building behind them, the giant figure of Gort looms silently in the doorway. His two great arms reach out, grab the two guards and drag then back inside the building. 
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY 
He lets out an inaudible gasp as he sees this. Bug-eyed, he glances quickly to the point where he last saw Klaatu. He is amazed at what he sees. 
MED. SHOT 
from Bobby's viewpoint. Klaatu has emerged from the concealment of the tree-lined path and is making his way calmly toward the entrance of the building. 
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY 
As he watches Klaatu enter the building, his curiosity conquers his fear and he starts tremblingly toward the structure. 
INT. BUILDING - FULL SHOT 
as Klaatu enters. The huge shapes of the space ship and Gort loom large and eerie. Klaatu starts across the barren enclosure toward the ship. 
EXT. ENTRANCE TO BUILDING - MED. CLOSE SHOT 
as Bobby approaches the door, fearful but fascinated. He peers cautiously inside and his eyes grow wide as saucers. 
EXT. BUILDING - MED. SHOT 
In *f.g., near the door, the two guards lie unconscious. As Klaatu walks toward the ship Gort slowly turns his head to follow him with him with eyes. Klaatu touches a point on the unbroken surface of the ship and the ramp silently swings out and down to the ground. Klaatu mounts the ramp and disappears inside the ship, whereupon the ramp silently closes. 
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY 
as he watches this; his eyes bulging. He can scarcely believe what he has seen. Suddenly a wave of sheer terror sweeps over him. Scrambling to his feet, he turns and runs wildly away. 
INT. SMALL CORRIDOR - SPACE SHIP 
CAMERA FOLLOWS Klaatu as he moves down the tiny, dimly lighted entrance corridor. He steps into the main cabin of the ship and flips a switch which bathes the cabin in a diffused, shadowless light. The walls are lined with a complex of mysterious gadgetry -- knobs, dials, indicators, etc. All of this should be as imaginative and unorthodox as possible, while still retaining a feeling of sound but highly advanced engineering. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT 
as Klaatu moves to the communications panel, flipping switches and turning dials. Indicators light up. There are crackling, whirring and buzzing sounds. Klaatu starts speaking into a built-in microphone in his own strange language. He speaks in rapid-fire explanation, continuing to talk, as we-- 
DISSOLVE TO: 
HELEN (takes the stone and studies it, amazed by its size) Is it real? 
TOM (with the shrug of an amateur) Looks real to me. 
BOBBY Mr. Carpenter's got a lot of diamonds. (he digs into his pocket) He gave me a couple of them. 
Helen takes the two diamonds Bobby holds out in his hand, looking at them in amazement. 
HELEN He gave these to you? 
BOBBY (guilty for his own sharp dealing) Well, not exactly. I gave him two dollars. 
TOM This doesn't make sense... I think the guy's a crook. I never did trust him. 
Helen tries to shush Tom, not wanting to re-stimulate Bobby's imagination, but it's too late. 
BOBBY Gee, Mom, do you think maybe he's a diamond smuggler? 
HELEN (firmly) Come on, darling -- we're going up to bed. 
TOM I wonder if we ought to-- 
HELEN (cutting him off with a look) Bobby and I have had enough excitement for tonight. 
TOM (seriously concerned) You think it's all right for you to stay here? 
HELEN (nods reassuringly) I've got a good lock on my door. (smiling at Bobby) And Bobby's going to sleep in my room tonight. 
BOBBY Oh, boy -- can I, Mom? 
HELEN Yes, dear. Come on now. (she happens to look down at his feet. Puzzled, and concerned, she feels his shoes) Bobby, your shoes are soaking! 
BOBBY (reluctantly, with childish guilt) Yeah -- the grass was kind of wet. 
As the impact of this sinks in, Helen and Tom turn to stare at each other in questioning consternation. 
FADE OUT: 
FADE IN: 
INT. OFFICE - DEPT. OF COMMERCE BLDG. - MED. CLOSE SHOT DAY 
It is a typical government office, with lots of desks in it. Helen is at her desk, straightening it up to go to lunch. This done, she moves briskly to get her coat. CAMERA PANS to follow her and suddenly, startlingly reveals Klaatu standing near the clothes rack, as though he had materialized out of thin air. Helen is thoroughly startled. 
HELEN (unnerved) Oh -- hello-- 
KLAATU May I see you for a minute? 
HELEN I -- I was Just going to lunch. 
KLAATU (quietly insistent) May I walk out with you? 
She is nervous and uneasy but obviously can't refuse. The telephone on her desk rings and Helen turns to answer it. 
HELEN (into phone) Mrs. Benson speaking. (recognizing the voice, she glances nervously at Klaatu) Oh, hello... 
INT. JEWELRY SHOP - MED. CLOSE SHOT 
It's a rather swank shop. Tom is standing at the counter phoning. The Jeweler is behind the counter examining a stone through his eyepiece. 
TOM (into phone, cheerily) I'm at Bleeker's getting an appraisal on that diamond. I thought we might have lunch together. 
INT. OFFICE - DEPT. OF COMMERCE - MED. CLOSE SHOT 
HELEN (with a nervous glance at Klaatu) I -- I'm afraid I can't -- not right now. Can I talk to you later?. Yes, that'll be fine. 'Bye. 
She hangs up and smiles uneasily as she rejoins Klaatu and leads the way out into the corridor. 
INT. CORRIDOR - TWO SHOT 
CAMERA MOVES with Helen and Klaatu as they go down the corridor. Klaatu's mood is one of quiet tension. 
KLAATU (watching Helen's reaction) I saw Bobby this morning before he went to school-- 
HELEN (glancing at him apprehensively) Yes--? 
A couple of engineers are working feverishly over a huge and complicated control panel. They are working by the light of two incongruous and ineffectual candles. 
INT. NEW YORK SUBWAY KIOSK 
People carne pouring up the stairs wildly, feverishly anxious to escape the darkness below. Their eyes blink weakly in the unaccustomed sunlight. 
EXT. SHOT - NEW YORK STREET 
Cars, taxis and busses are stalled, their frenzied drivers unable to figure out what's happened. A junk peddler with a broken-down horse and wagon moves grandly and leisurely through the stalled vehicles. The peddler bears a happy grin of superiority. This is his moment of triumph over modern civilization. 
LONG SHOT - TIMES SQUARE 
with all traffic stalled. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - TIMES SQUARE 
of two cab drivers whose taxis have stalled beside each other in traffic. One has gotten out of his cab. The other is seated at his wheel, looking around in awe and terror, his tough Manhattan heart shaken. 
CAB DRIVER My ol' lady was right. We shoulda got a place in the country. 
LONG SHOT - PICCADILLY CIRCUS - DAY 
with all traffic stalled. (It is about 5:00 P.M.) 
TWO SHOT - TWO COCKNEYS 
standing on the sidewalk, awe-struck at the weird sight before them. One of them speaks in terror, hardly daring to articulate his thoughts. 
COCKNEY It's that space man -- that's wot it is. 
LONG SHOT - MOSCOW STREET - DUSK 
with all traffic stalled. (It is about 8:00 P.M.) 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - TWO RUSSIANS 
They are an elderly couple. Staring bug-eyed at the strange street scene, the woman mutters some terror-stricken comment in Russian. 
LONG SHOT - PLAZA. DE LA CONCORDE - DAY 
with traffic stalled. (It is about 5:00 P.M.) 
CLOSE SHOT - FRENCH WOMAN 
She is middle-aged and there are tears of fright in her eyes. She is mumbling a prayer in French. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BARNHARDT'S STUDY - DAY 
Barnhardt is seated comfortably at his desk with a book on his lap. He has been interrupted by the entrance of Hilda, his secretary. At the moment she`s beside herself with excitement. Barnhardt watches her with a half-smile of secret amusement. He has already deduced the cause of what's happening. 
HILDA You should see it, Professor Barnhardt! You should go out and see it for yourself! 
BARNHARDT Thanks -- I'm enjoying it right here. 
HILDA The whole city has stopped. People are running around like ants! 
BARNHARDT (musing admiringly on Klaatu's cleverness) What a brilliant idea. I never would have thought of it. 
Hilda flings him a questioning look, annoyed that he won't share her excitement. 
BARNHARDT What about the people who are coming to the meeting tonight? Have they all arrived? 
HILDA (nodding) I talked to most of them this morning... They were all very curious about the meeting. 
BARNHARDT Good. Did you speak to our friend Mr. Carpenter? 
HILDA (nodding) He'll be there at 8:30. 
BARNHARDT (studying her for a moment) Tell me, Hilda -- does all this frighten you -- does it make you feel insecure? 
HILDA Yes, sir -- it certainly does! 
BARNHARDT (nodding with a bland little smile) That's good, Hilda. I'm glad. 
HELEN (looks at her watch, then back at him, awe-struck) Yes -- Just exactly. 
STREET - MED. SHOT - DAY 
Showing a section of street traffic as it comes back to life. From everywhere comes the sound of self-starters. Trolley bells start clanging. Then automobile horns. People climb back into there vehicles and traffic starts to move. 
SERIES OF CUTS 
of other streets, as the strident sounds of traffic build up and normalcy is regained. 
INT. LOBBY - DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE BLDG - MED. SHOT - DAY 
as Helen and Klaatu come out of the elevator and start across the lobby, CAMERA HOLDING ON THEM. Helen is preoccupied with concern for Klaatu's safety. 
HELEN Where are you going now? 
KLAATU Back to the boardinghouse. I'll be safe there for the afternoon -- and I can keep an eye on Bobby. He's the only other person who knows anything about-- 
This recalls to Helen something she had forgotten and she stops in sudden concern. 
HELEN No, wait a minute -- there's someone else. 
KLAATU Who? 
HELEN Tom... He was there last night when Bobby told me what he saw. 
The look of concern on Klaatu's face heightens Helen's overwhelming fear and uncertainty. 
HELEN (worriedly) Of course, he doesn't know anything definite. He'd talk to me first, anyway, before-- (interrupting herself in sudden decision) We can't take that chance. I'll get in touch with him right away and make sure. 
Helen turns and starts determinedly for the lobby door, followed by Klaatu, as we-- 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. TELEPHONE BOOTH 
Helen is nervous and worried as she speaks into the phone. 
HELEN (into phone) --But I've got to talk to him. It's terribly important. When is he coming back? 
INT. TOM'S OUTER OFFICE - CLOSE SHOT - SECRETARY 
Tom's secretary has not yet recovered from the shock of what has happened to the world. 
SECRETARY I don't know, Mrs. Benson. He left before noon -- before that awful electric business. I'm scared to death, Mrs. Benson. I -- No, he wouldn't tell me where he was gong. Said it was something personal. 
INT. TELEPHONE BOOTH 
HELEN Tell him I want to see him the minute he gets in... No, I'll call back. 
Helen hangs up, thoroughly worried and distraught now. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INSERT - NEWSPAPER HEADLINE 
The headline reads: WORLD-WIDE POWER JAMMED PRESIDENT DECLARES EMERGENCY STEP UP HUNT FOR SPACE MAN. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. AIRPORT - MED. SHOT - DAY 
at passenger loading gate. A group of passengers is held back as soldiers close the gate to the runway, preventing their boarding their plane. The passengers mill about in consternation as a voice is heard over a p.a. system. 
VOICE Attention, please.... All flights from National Airport have been canceled until further notice.. All flights from this airport have been canceled. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. RAILROAD STATION - MED. SHOT AT TRAIN GATE - DAY 
M.P.'s are blocking the gates leading to trains and ticket takers are busy explaining matters and remonstrating with irate ticket holders. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. BUS DEPOT - MED. SHOT - DAY 
HELEN I'm not going to let you do it, Tom. (with deep personal urgency) Believe me, this is literally the most important thing in the world. 
Tom picks up the phone and answers it. 
TOM (into phone) Yes?... What's his name, Margaret? General Cutler? (disappointed that the connection isn't completed) All right, I'll hold on. 
Realizing what he's doing, Helen crosses to him, pleading wildly, desperately. 
HELEN Tom, you mustn't -- ! You don't know what you're doing! It isn't just you and Mr. Carpenter. The rest of the world, is involved! 
TOM (exasperated) I don't care about the rest of the world! 
It is as though he had slapped her across the face. Suddenly he has revealed himself, naked and distasteful. Feeling guilty as he sees the contempt and revulsion in her eyes, he tries the old charm, holding his hand over the phone. 
TOM You'll feel different when you see my picture in the papers. 
HELEN (staring at him starkly) I feel different right now. 
TOM (uneasily) You wait and see. You're going to marry a big hero! 
HELEN I'm not going to marry anybody. 
She turns and runs quickly out of the room. Tom's inclination is to follow her, when his connection is completed. 
TOM (into phone) Hello, General Cutler? (irritated) No, I don't want to speak to his aide. I want to speak to the General. Tell him it's about the space man... My name is Tom Stevens. S-t-e-v-e-n- s. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - MED. SHOT - DUSK 
Helen hurries out of the building, hails a cab, gets into it and the cab drives off. 
INT. TOM'S OFFICE - CLOSE SHOT - TOM 
Tom now has General Cutler on the phone. 
TOM (into phone) That's right, General. That's where he's staying... Yes, of course I'm sure. 
INT. GENERAL CUTLER'S OFFICE - PENTAGON BLDG. 
The General is on the phone and is making notes. There are a couple of officers standing near his desk, a Colonel and a Lieutenant Colonel. 
GENERAL CUTLER (after listening for a moment) Thank you very much, Mr. Stevens. I'll want to talk to you further but I haven't time now. (hangs up and turns to Colonel) Deploy all Zone 5 units according to Plan B -- immediately. 
The Colonel nods and starts out of the room, as we-- 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. TAXI - MED. CLOSE SHOT - HELEN - NIGHT 
The cab is traveling through city traffic. Nervous and edgy, Helen glances at her watch impatiently. 
EXT. STREET - MED. SHOT 
A jeep filled with armed soldiers is moving down the street at a fast clip. Behind the jeep is an Army staff car. 
MED. CLOSE- SHOT - STAFF CAR 
shooting from outside into the car. In the front seat beside the driver is a full Colonel, wearing helmet and side-arms. The car is moving swiftly through traffic as the Colonel speaks into the transmitter of a radio. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - COMMAND AND RECONNAISSANCE CAR 
It is filled with soldiers wearing helmets and carrying rifles and Tommy guns. It is traveling quite fast. A soldier with a handy-talkie transmits an order to the driver. 
MED. LONG SHOT - STREET 
The C. and R. car is seen to be at the head of a convoy of eight Army vehicles which are moving swiftly down the street. The trucks are filled with armed soldiers. 
MED. LONG SHOT - ANOTHER STREET 
On this street also an armed convoy is racing by, headed by a Jeep mounting a .30 caliber machine gun. 
MED. LONG SHOT - ANOTHER STREET 
On this street also a convoy rolls by. 
looking ahead out of her side of the cab, at the intersection. 
MED. SHOT - INTERSECTION 
from Helen's viewpoint. There is an Army vehicle waiting in the side street. 
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU 
as he looks out of his side of the cab. 
MED. SHOT - INTERSECTION 
In this side street, too, an Army vehicle is standing. 
TWO SHOT - HELEN AND KLAATU 
Their eyes meet for a moment, neither willing to conjecture what this might mean. The very quietness of the operation is ominous and menacing. Their faces show grave concern. 
INT. STAFF CAR - CLOSE SHOT - COLONEL 
COLONEL (into radio) Attention, Zone 5 -- report when target vehicle passes your position. 
EXT. TAXI MED. CLOSE SHOT 
shooting through the window at Helen and Klaatu, who are growing more tense and nervous. 
MED. SHOT - INTERSECTION 
shooting over the back of a jeep mounting a machine gun as the cab passes the intersection. The driver picks up his radio and reports into it. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - WEAPONS CARRIER 
shooting through the windshield as the driver reports by radio, his eyes shifting to follow the moving cab. 
INT. TAXI - TWO SHOT - HELEN AND KLAATU 
Helen is biting her lips nervously. She steals a sidelong glance at Klaatu to find him staring ahead, deeply preoccupied and concerned. 
HELEN (trying to give him encouragement) It's only a few blocks to Barnhardt's. 
KLAATU I'm worried about Gort. I'm afraid of what he might do -- if anything should happen to me. 
HELEN Gort? (puzzled) But he's a robot. I mean -- without you, what could he do? 
KLAATU (slowly) There's no limit to what he could do. He could destroy the Earth. (with great urgency) If anything should happen to me, you must go to Gort. You must give him this message: "Klaatu barada nikto." Please repeat that. 
HELEN (shocked and bewildered, she repeats nervously) "Klaatu barada nikto." 
KLAATU (gravely) Remember those words. 
Helen nods, repeating the words soundlessly. 
SERIES OF CUTS 
of vehicle drivers reporting by radio as their eyes follow the progress of the taxi. (These should be shot so we don't hear what is said.) 
CLOSE SHOT - COLONEL IN STAFF CAR 
listening to these reports. Then he speaks into his transmitter with quiet tension. 
COLONEL (into radio) Attention, Zone 5... Section number 2 -- block off Tenth Street at Massachusetts. All vehicles close in. 
The Colonel motions to his driver and the staff car pulls out. 
EXT. STREET - MED. SHOT 
as a convoy of eight vehicles moves down the street going very fast and swings around a corner. 
SERIES OF CUTS 
of individual vehicles that have been waiting at intersections, as they pull out and down the main streets to converge on the taxi. 
MED. SHOT 
at a major intersection, as the convoy of eight vehicles previously seen dashes through the intersection and stops. The cars quickly arrange themselves so that they form a roadblock, completely sealing off the street. 
