The Day the Clown Cried 
THE DAY THE CLOWN CRIED ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY By JOAN O'BRIEN And CHARLES DENTON Based on a Story Idea by JOAN O'BRIEN Additional Material by Jerry Lewis 
I TOOK A CHILD BY THE HAND... TO LEAD HIM ON HIS WAY. I TOLD HIM OF THE LOVE OF GOD... AND TAUGHT HIM HOW TO PRAY. AND AS I SEARCHED FOR BETTER WAYS HIS GUIDE AND HELP TO BE... I FOUND, AS WE WALKED HAND IN HAND, THAT HE WAS LEADING ME. "THE DAY THE CLOWN CRIED" 
COLD OPENING 
EXT. PARIS CIRCUS - NIGHT 
The normal activity and excitement of showtime around the circus is in evidence where we see the half dark street and alley directly adjacent to the circus tent which (in Paris is an enclosure)... the animals, the midgets, the people and the roustabouts moving with a fixed speed and getting faster as we now know showtime is momentarily due. 
We MOVE TOWARD the action, slowly but definitely picking up SOUNDS and actions of the busy people as we go. 
STRAIGHT CUT TO: 
EXT. CIRCUS - FRONT OF CIRCUS - PEOPLE ENTERING - NIGHT 
We see barkers, children, people, pushing... buying tickets, hats, candy... SOUNDS of children laughing, MUSIC playing from o.s. within the tent area... and we... 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BACK OF CIRCUS - NIGHT 
A continuation of the animals, trainers, clowns INTERCUT with the action of the circus customers jamming the entranceway to get in... (complimented CUTS from backstage to out front... building to the final crescendo... as we see the alley empty and clear out vs. the front area clearing and also becoming empty.) 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. CIRCUS PROPER - NIGHT 
The fully dressed orchestra playing the oncoming people to their respective seats as we PAN ALONG the happy faces and excited children... DOWN and BACK within the circus backstage and SLOWLY COME TO A STOP OUTSIDE: "CLOWN ALLEY". 
CLOWN ALLEY - NIGHT 
The heartbeat of any circus... The long row of unkempt, yet beautifully neat trunks where the clowns make up, with many of the clowns just coming in and setting their clothes and things around their own little areas... midgets running and playing, like the little children they are about to entertain... MUSIC is in the deep background... as we COME TO A STOP at the large trunk with the letters clearly printed ...'GUSTAV - EUROPE'S PREMIER CLOWN." 
We PULL BACK and AWAY from the lettering on the trunk and REVEAL the face of a gentle but drawn man, a man whose body and movements indicate he has been at this for a long time. As he sits, the little midgets run close to see what they can do to help; one pulls the chair for him to sit on; another brings a hot cup of coffee; another takes his coat and hangs in on the hattree, adjacent to his trunk... as we PUSH PAST HIM to introduce the other clowns... some half made up, others finishing their make-up... and some just sitting and rapping together, smoking, drinking coffee, waiting for showtime... and in the very distant b.g., almost against the wall of clown alley, we see the trunk and the body of a "CLOWN" in silhouette... we CRAWL TOWARDS the body and the trunk... and COME TO A STOP... HOLDING FULL FRAME.  The clown, already made-up and dressed in his tramp outfit, has his head in his hands, leaning down on the trunk table top, a depressed and sad looking hulk of a man... an o.s. voice: 
MIDGET Coffee?  It's nice and hot. 
The MIDGET slides the cup in front of the clown's face... as he picks up his head and smiles and nods yes... he sips the coffee and we see the clown is HELMUT DORQUE (pronounced Doork). 
He is a depressed and very unhappy clown... the frown on his face shows years of knocking around... plus fear that those years are now over.  From o.s. we HEAR the SOUND of a small air horn being blown and carried by one of the midgets.  He is yelling through an old megaphone. 
MIDGET 15 Minutes to circus... 15 minutes to circus. 
Upon hearing this, "Clown Alley" really gets busy... all the clowns get up and put their last minute touches together... touching up their make-ups... getting their coats and props together... and as they get themselves up and ready, they exit the clown alley area and start for the arena.  The last one to go is Helmut, lingering behind intentionally as we: 
CUT TO: 
INT. CIRCUS ARENA - CLOSEUP RINGMASTER - NIGHT 
RINGMASTER Ladies and gentlemen, we proudly present... "The Clowns"! 
INT. CLOWN ALLEY - NIGHT 
Helmut hangs back until the very last clown exits Clown Alley, as we: 
CUT TO: 
INT. CIRCUS PROPER - NIGHT 
The MUSIC is really going strong... and the clowns come on like all forty.  They explode in the ring... doing all their bits and pieces which ultimately brings them back to the entrance area they just came from and they make the "West Point" arch for the TIMPANI DRUM ROLL and the grand entrance of "Gustav" the Great. 
CLOSER SHOT 
"Gustav" makes his famous comedy walk into the tent with the longest pair of tails ever seen (at least 75 feet long) and at the end holding them from dragging on the floor is Helmut, the "Tramp Clown". 
WIDER SHOT 
We see Gustav taking the applause, and it is tremendous.  He stops center of the ring, but Helmut keeps walking and doesn't see the post in front of him as he walks around the post, still holding the tails and goes on his butt, pulling Gustav down as well.  The audience screams with laughter, believing this all part of the act, as we: 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. CLOWN ALLEY - NIGHT 
All the clowns are sitting around their respective trunks and there is a sense of gloom permeating the air, as Gustav and MR. SCHMIDT pace back and forth behind Helmut, both going at him unmercifully. 
MR SCHMIDT (in the middle of his tirade) Not to mention how unprofessional that was... 
HELMUT But it was an accident... 
GUSTAV Oh, sure it was... A very well planned and calculated accident! 
HELMUT I swear to you... it was an accident! 
Gustav stops and grabs Schmidt's arm, and with a threatening, pointing finger... 
GUSTAV I don't want to hear any more... You will get me another stooge. I don't want this man!! 
SCHMIDT Don't get excited, Gustav, you shall have it. 
GUSTAV You bet I will, or you shall have no show. 
Gustav walks away, sits at his trunk, starts taking his make- up off. 
Helmut hears it all and it sounds so good and right. 
HELMUT I will go now and see Schmidt... I will tell him I won't take any more degradation... I will tell him I am a "clown" not a stooge...  A "clown"... A special person...  A special clown... 
Ada happily gets his hat. 
ADA (placing the hat on his head) Go, my love... Go and fight for what you know is right... I will warm your dinner and wait for you to come home. 
She kisses him, opens the door for him and he goes. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. THE EMPTY CIRCUS - NIGHT 
The low key light and the silence of the circus is almost ominous and a little frightening for Helmut as he walks across the empty arena... with a small light burning from up high. All the equipment is tied off.  Slight ANIMAL SOUNDS in the deep background... and the faintest SOUND of circus music is heard.  Helmut is now center of the main ring and stops and looks around. 
HIS POV - THE EMPTY STANDS 
CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT 
His face tense, then eases as he looks around. 
HIS POV 
The stands are full, the lights come up, and the audience is standing, applauding thunderously! 
MED. CLOSE - HELMUT 
In his clown outfit bowing and acknowledging the ovation. 
HIS POV - THE AUDIENCE 
as they stop applauding and sit down. 
WIDE SHOT 
Helmut -- the chair and the trombone -- 
THE TROMBONE PANTOMIME 
As the completion of the "Trombone Pantomime" Helmut walks away from the position he was in with the trombone and bows and milks the crowd for reactions and as he bows the second time... WE SHIMMER: 
BACK TO: 
CLOSE - HELMUT 
In bowing position as he looks at the crowd. 
HIS POV - THE EMPTY STANDS 
CLOSE - HELMUT 
His face shows signs of utter despair and dejection... the dream is gone and the memory of what was really hurts deep down.  He looks around making sure he hasn't been noticed by anyone and takes that deep sigh and strolls towards the back of the circus tent area on his way to find Schmidt. 
WIDE ANGLE 
TRUCK WITH HIM, HOLDING the many empty seats in the b.g. as he walks... trying to muster up the courage he's going to have to call... something that has now become totally foreign to him. 
HIGH SHOT - THE EMPTY CIRCUS 
We see Helmut as the tiny figure he feels like, walking out of the tent area and into the backstage section. 
CUT TO: 
BACKSTAGE OFFICE AREA - NIGHT 
Helmut enters the section of the circus where Schmidt has his "Temp" office quarters.  It is a tent-like arrangement with the canvas flap as his door and we see light streaming from the half open canvas flap. 
HIS POV - THE TENT OFFICE 
Helmut looks and sees a shadow of a body moving around in the tent office area and starts for it. 
INT. TENT OFFICE - NIGHT 
Schmidt pacing up and down... thinking, as we PULL BACK to see Gustav seated in one of the fold-up chairs with a "I am waiting" look on his face. 
SCHMIDT Naturally, I agree... Doork is a nuisance, but to just let him go seems a little unfair. 
GUSTAV Schmidt!  Don't make me put it on a "either him or me basis". 
SCHMIDT All right... all right... I'll give him -- 
CUT TO: 
OUTSIDE OFFICE TENT - HELMUT - NIGHT 
listening. 
SCHMIDT (V.O.) -- his two weeks notice tomorrow. Will that satisfy you? 
GUSTAV (V.O.) Perfectly!!  Let's have a drink... 
Helmut drops his head, completely discouraged and saddened by what he knows is a losing battle.  As he starts to walk away we can HEAR the tinkling of glasses and the slight laughter of the two men as we watch Helmut slowly scuff his way towards the backstage circus exit, as we: 
DISSOLVE (12-ft) HOLDING his walk over his limp body at bar. 
The corporal clicks his heels, thrilled that he can go. 
CORPORAL Yes sir!!!! 
He exits, and returns with Helmut and one more guard.  Helmut stands in the doorway, frightened and unsure, Reicher still pacing behind his desk feels Helmut's presence... 
REICHER Alright, come in, sit down! 
Helmut walks to the chair in front of Reicher's desk... The spineless corporal moves towards the door... turns... and takes his position on the opposite side of the door that the guard is standing at... 
Reicher picks up the folder again, fingers through it.  As he looks through the folder, he looks at Helmut and looks and fingers pages and the silence and the anxiety is getting to Helmut as he sweats and waits. 
Reicher is toying with him, and each time Reicher looks up the sick, little-boy smile crosses Helmut's face, hoping to endear himself to this Prussian pig! 
Reicher finally sits down beside his desk in a chair that resembles a throne.  It is high and it looks down on Helmut. 
(Props:  This chair must be higher and taller than Helmut's chair... for POV shots diminishing Helmut seated there. 
OVER REICHER ON HELMUT 
REICHER (soft spoken) Are you Helmut Doork? 
HELMUT (nervously) Doork, yes sir, Helmut Doork!  I am he!  Yes sir, that is correct, Doork! 
REICHER And are you a clown in the circus? 
HELMUT (ego setting in and forgetting for a moment his trouble and danger) Not JUST A CLOWN!  I am Helmut Doork, Premier Clown!  I've clowned for the royal heads of many of our finest countries, why there were times when I had to... 
REICHER (breaking in) That was years ago... According to these papers you are now just a helper in the circus with little or no importance!! 
This stuns Helmut, his facade destroyed... His face drops along with his fear... 
HELMUT (meekly) Some things are only temporary... Lt. Reicher!  Only yesterday, I had calls from one of the great circus owners in all of Europe... he... 
REICHER (breaking in, strong and angry) You are NOTHING!!  You are a HAS BEEN!!  You WERE A CLOWN... 
REICHER (continuing) You are now a prisoner of the State and that's not funny... Can you make something funny out of that, Clown? 
Helmut sinks even lower in the over-stuffed chair, despair in his eyes and a weight on his heart... the truth slashing at his very being. 
HELMUT (softly) No!  Lt. Reicher, I can't make anything funny from that thought... 
REICHER It is no thought... It is fact, Clown, unquestionable fact!!  Now down to the issues at hand...  Did you willfully and with malice attack the State and impersonate the Fuhrer? 
HELMUT (softly) I was drunk!  It was a mistake!  I meant no disrespect... Sir... Honestly, I was drunk and not responsible for my actions and thoughts!  And my actions were subconscious! 
REICHER (screaming) Subconscious??  Meaning it was all motivated by truth that came out under the influence of alcohol! 
HELMUT (still softly) I am a LOYAL German! 
REICHER And what kind of commendation would you expect for being a loyal German? 
HELMUT I want nothing!  But I'm more loyal than most Germans I know... 
REICHER Like who? 
Helmut realizes this was the wrong thing to say... he sweats... 
HELMUT Ah, like... re... 
REICHER Names!   Names!!!  Who? 
HELMUT I don't know... 
REICHER Sir!!! 
HELMUT I don't know, sir... 
REICHER But you said other Germans... What OTHER Germans...  Who are they?  Why aren't they loyal?  Who? 
HELMUT (trying desperately to cop out) I'm not responsible for what I say now... 
REICHER Why?  You're not drinking... you said you weren't responsible last night because you were drunk!  Are you drunk now? 
HELMUT No, sir! 
REICHER Then why are you not responsible now? 
HELMUT I don't know!! 
REICHER SIR!!! 
HELMUT I don't know -- sir !!! 
REICHER Why are you not responsible?  Why? Why?  Why?  Why? 
On each attack of the word "why", Reicher creeps up closer and closer to Helmut, really intimidating him... and the sound of his voice echoes and becomes monotone and ominous... 
[THE NEXT TWO PAGES OF THE SCRIPT ARE MISSING AS THEY ARE IN THE ORIGINAL] 
The corporal gets Reicher's point and marks his notebook, flips the cover closed, snaps to attention as we: 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT RAILWAY STATION - DAY 
Helmut digs the knife into the table top and buries his head in his hands... totally shook from the encounter... 
GUARD Your release? 
He begins to laugh, but hysterically. 
GUARD Release?  They told me you were funny...  but I never realized just how funny you are...  RELEASE ???? 
And the hysterical laughter really echoes throughout the mess hall as the Guard makes his way towards the exit.  The men at the table slowly get up and exit the scene, as do the others at the surrounding tables... leaving Helmut just sitting there... we PULL BACK to reveal the empty mess hall, and the lonely sad body of Helmut, as he looks around realizing he's alone, gets up and slowly creeps out of the hall like a puppy with his tail between his legs... as we 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. PRISON YARD - FULL SHOT - DAY 
There are two rows of prisoners quarters, wooden buildings, weather beaten each row consists of about a dozen barracks each... joined at the ends, farthest from the CAMERA by the administration building, a two story type making a "U" shape of the compound... The entire yard is surrounded by two high wire fences about ten yards apart and fifteen feet high. At intervals of about twenty-five yards, in the area between the fences, are the guard towers, each about eighteen feet above the ground equipped with searchlights, sirens, machine guns, with three Guards on duty.  Along outer fence, also about twenty-five yards apart, other powerful lighting equipment mounted on high poles. 
It is morning and although the sun shines brightly it doesn't in any way alter the drabness of the compound... nor does it help change the look of the men... 
There are about three hundred men milling about, some still chewing what was their breakfast, some pulling brown bread from their shirt fronts and exchanging bread for cigarettes or just making deals, one with another... some sit along the barracks walls trying to get some sun... others walking in circles... some talking, laughing, even playing cards... doing whatever they can to kill time... 
PAN the entire camp.  At completion of the long PAN introducing the prison camp, we pick up the sixtyish JOHANN KELTNER (formally ANDERLICH), a warm, sensitive looking greying man, thin but with a dignity and a serenity about him... He walks briskly (and we know he'd love to walk slowly and tiredly, but we can see he knows his attitude and conduct will help those that can't help themselves...) 
His face tells us he is good, kind and the reason men want to live, he is special and he smiles at all those he passes, greets the men and is generally what man wishes he could be under the same circumstances... 
He walks into the building, which we learn is the barracks... 
INT. BARRACKS - DAY 
The barracks are empty... Keltner enters the huge room and looks around and sees Helmut at the other end of the barracks just walking back and forth like a caged lion... angry, hurt, sad, and generally out of sorts... he can't even hear Keltner approaching him... he finally stops at the back wall of the barracks and lays his head against the barracks wall... 
HELMUT (not aware Keltner is behind him) Dear God, please hear me! 
KELTNER He hears you, my son... 
Helmut jumps, scared... throwing his back against the wall, like a man who fears being attacked at any time... 
KELTNER (sympathetically) Here, here, easy, you can't do this to yourself... 
HELMUT You frightened me, Johann, I'm sorry... 
KELTNER (softly) You have nothing to be sorry for... Fear isn't something controlled by man...  fear can not be conferred with...  there isn't anyway known to mankind where man can say to himself...  "I will not be afraid"... Oh, certainly man can try to fight it... but faith and believing are man's only chance...  You must have faith... you must! 
HELMUT I have faith... but not always... sometimes it eludes me...  I can't remember to remember it. 
KELTNER But that's natural... you can't expect to be perfect in what you try to do... 
HELMUT I don't know... 
He starts pacing again. 
KELTNER I heard what happened at breakfast this morning with ROTHMAN, the guard... 
Helmut spins around, frightened again... 
HELMUT Will they do something to me? What have you heard? 
KELTNER (putting his arm around him) Nothing, absolutely nothing... don't worry about it... I just wanted you to know that I believe you handled yourself admirably... 
HELMUT That was one time I didn't care for the laughs I was getting from some of the men... 
KELTNER Of course you didn't... but I'm sure you know man laughs for two reasons... one because something is funny... two, because they fear showing fear... they laughed because "there but for the grace of God go I!" 
HELMUT Do you really think so? 
KELTNER I'm certain of it! 
Helmut smiles and takes Johann's hand, tenderly, and warmly: 
HELMUT Thank you, Johann.  I always feel so much better after you talk to me... 
KELTNER I'm glad, Helmut, I'm very glad... you know you can always talk to me, about anything... 
HELMUT (remembering) Oh!  I almost forgot... 
Helmut puts Johann around the back of the barrack area near the wall out of sight of anyone coming in... 
HELMUT Before breakfast this morning,  I spoke to one of the guards, a very intelligent one, and he seems quite nice and friendly too.  Well, he said that the Gestapo has set up a special review board to handle cases just like mine.  And he said he would get me a form, a special form.  Just been printed up.  And I'm to fill it out.  Isn't that good? 
Keltner looking at him, like a child that believes in the boogie man: 
KELTNER How many times since you've been here, have you filled out forms? Twenty?  Thirty times?? 
HELMUT (in fast) But this is different.  It's entirely new. 
Helmut takes out a set of papers from his back pocket to show Keltner. 
HELMUT See?  These are made up by the Gestapo itself... and the form will go directly to Berlin, to Gestapo headquarters.  That's the important thing about this... the Gestapo's in on it.  That's a very good sign. (a beat) Isn't it a good sign? 
KELTNER (sympathetically) Yes, my son, it is a good sign. 
HELMUT (in fast, excited; scanning the papers) And I have to be very careful of everything I put down on the form. The tiniest detail could make the difference.  Don't you agree? 
Helmut looks up and notices Johann is looking up towards the ceiling of the barracks... watching something... Helmut looks up, too. 
THEIR POV - THE BIRDS 
GUARD ATTENTION ! 
The men jump, but quickly, to their feet, and stand at attention at the front of their bunks, ala inspection in the army.  They are rigid and waiting to hear what's up.  The Guard takes a few steps into the barracks... behind him we see several prisoners carrying bunks waiting to enter the barracks. 
GUARD All the prisoners from the other side of the camp are being moved over to this side of the camp over to this side of the camp.  Barracks "H" will make room for three additional bunks. 
He takes a few steps down the aisle... 
GUARD I want all the bunks moved down toward the far end.  Get them as close together as possible. Now! GET MOVING! 
LONG SHOT 
The men scramble back to their own bunks and immediately begin pulling, shoving, and grumbling comments about being too overcrowded as it is... 
THE MEN (ad lib) Gotta have more room... We need more space...  Hey, watch where you're going. This is stupid! 
GUARD (yelling) YOU!  You down there at the end... get those bunks right up against the wall. 
CLOSE - HELMUT AND KELTNER 
As bunks are moved towards the far end of the barracks, Keltner and Helmut prepare to move their bunks, the last ones on their side.  Helmut and Adolf, who have already made their move, come up to Keltner to help him with his bunk... Helmut sees that Keltner has help so he decides to back off and hide in his little corner with his pencil and scrap of paper... totally involved with his own pain and his undying fantasy about his ultimate release... 
WIDER SHOT - THE ENTIRE BARRACKS 
The guard looks down the barracks as the men just about finish the moving job... 
GUARD Hurry it up!  Come on, get moving! 
The guard turns towards the door and motions for the SIX PRISONERS to enter the barracks... they enter by pairs, each pair carrying a double-tier bunk. 
Their personal belongings are piled on the bunks and slung over their shoulders in sacks (barracks bags)... the Guard motions for the two bunks to be placed next to Helmut's and one on the opposite side... next to the Stout Prisoner... NOTE:  This arrangement leaves space for one additional bunk right by the door. 
The guard motions for the Stout Prisoner and Herman to give the new arrivals a hand with the placement of their bunks. 
GUARD Get them close. (he looks around the barracks) You're all going to be nice and cozy in here. 
STOUT PRISONER (in a loud voice) Yeah, like triplets before they are born to a mother weighing 98 pounds... 
HERMAN That's what I call cozy! 
The guard smiles, and all the men laugh... 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
The guard starts for the door, satisfied with the arrangements... as he gets the door open, Helmut runs over to catch him before he makes his exit... 
HELMUT (anxiously) Excuse me, sir, the papers...  Did they arrive yet? 
GUARD (annoyed) They'll have to wait! 
He exits, closing the door behind him.  Helmut, with a look of despair on his face, goes back to his bunk. 
MED. SHOT - HELMUT AND KELTNER 
HELMUT You'd think, since he was coming over here anyway, the least he could do was bring the papers with him. 
KELTNER This moving men around has undoubtedly kept him very busy... don't worry, he'll bring them. 
HELMUT I'm sure if I asked him again he'd really become annoyed with me.  Would you remind him for me, please? 
KELTNER (kindly) Of course I will. 
Helmut climbs up to his bunk and goes back to his precious paper work. 
WIDER ANGLE 
As the new prisoners make up their bunks and arrange their belongings, the regulars of Barracks H, among them Adolf, Ludwig, Herman and Franz, begin moving towards them to meet them.  Keltner turns to the new white-haired prisoner whose bunk is directly next to his. 
KELTNER I've seen you around the yard, but the others... 
WHITE-HAIRED MAN About thirty of them got here yesterday from the prison outside of Frankfurt. 
1ST NEW PRISONER (who occupies the bunk above the white- haired prisoner) For the last three months we've been shuttled from one camp to another. 
2ND NEW PRISONER (his bunk is the lower bunk on the direct opposite side) Now they're shuffling us from one side to another.  I think they're trying to lose us. 
HERMAN Do you think they're bringing in war prisoners? 
LUDWIG I don't know why they're sending them here...  we're overcrowded as it is. 
KELTNER No, no... it's got to be something else...  Otherwise they would have left the bunks. 
ADOLF It could be possible that he is fixing up the barracks for some of his lady friends. 
KELTNER That many women? 
HERMAN (standing at attention) Reverend, we Germans are SUPERMEN! 
All the men break out in laughter at Herman's comment and his actions... but the laughter is cut short as they HEAR the door open again, and they all look in that direction. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
SHOOTING OVER the men onto the door, entering is the same guard that was just there... this time he enters with two more prisoners carrying their bunks.  One of them is JOSEF GALT, a burly bully like man, who knows all the tricks of survival, and ERNST UHLMANN, a think little man with a face like a weasel... they follow the Guard into the barracks proper. 
GUARD ATTENTION ! 
GUARD (as he finishes his walk) You are a sick looking group of things...  I can't even call you human...  because you're not... you're all lice...  DISMISSED! 
The men break up and go about their business, they move in all directions, but Keltner starts for the doorway to the barracks and is detoured by the guard who knew he would, as he stands in the way of Keltner who has to turn away and go about his business... the Guard peeks into the barracks. 
INT. BARRACKS - GUARD'S POV - DAY 
Helmut still sleeping... 
EXT. BARRACKS - CLOSE - GUARD - DAY 
He is delighted... he grabs the door and slams it shut with a bang that would wake the dead... then opens it again and walks off... 
INT. BARRACKS - CLOSE - HELMUT - DAY 
He jumps from out of his hard sleep... foggy and unsure about where he is, what time it is and he looks around and sees the barracks are empty... and he panics... but he is also shivering... the barracks feel like the inside of a meat truck refrigerated somewhat below zero... 
Helmut grabs his pants from the front of his bunk, pulls the cover over him and tries to get the pants on under the cover... It is cold!  (Photographically, we can show "cold"... Props:  vapor/smoke.) 
He gets his pants on and jumps down onto the cold floor and dances from the ice-like floor, he bends down looking for his socks and shoes... he wears just a tee-shirt... 
Having trouble finding both shoes, he grabs the blanket again and covers himself with it, while searching for the other shoe... 
He finds the other shoe and proceeds to put them on... takes a beat and sees he has no socks on... reaches under the bank and pulls out the pair of socks... which stand straight up (from the cold ... he holds them in the air, and drops one at a time and they sound like "pans" hitting the floor... he takes one and blows warm air from his mouth into the socks, one at a time, which warms them... (Props:  the socks need discussion!) 
He then proceeds to put his shoes on and puts one on, and then the other... now wearing both shoes he starts to tie the laces... he pulls them straight away to tie and they stand straight up!  (Props:  this is done with leather laces, pure leather... it works without any unnecessary rigging!) 
INSERT - THE STANDING STRAIGHT LACES 
BACK TO SCENE 
He finally gets them tied and starts, still sleepily, into the toilet area... (We can go for a great sound joke here.) He steps into the latrine, closes the door and we HEAR the SOUND of crushed ice being poured into the bowl... he flushes and we HEAR what might sound like an ice crusher... he steps out of the latrine and walks over to the basin and turns the water on. 
INSERT 
The water spigots... they both read "COLD". 
BACK TO SCENE 
And as he takes some water on his hands to his face... it is "cold" and his face just freezes from the pain of the cold... he looks around and sees the little metal ashtray, that looks like a small bowl or a tin from a used shaving cream lather soap... he fills it with water.. and to show his ingenuity, he takes a lighter from his pocket, places the tin on the edge of the sink and lights the fire under the tin (which couldn't possibly hold more than a handful of water) and proceeds to heat same... 
Once he is satisfied that it is at least warmer than the spigot supplied, he grabs for the tin which is so hot from the burning, he screams in another type pain... the pain of "HOT" hurting... he decides to flick his fingers in the tin bowl and splash some of the water on his face (which is by now, just drips of water)... brushes his teeth with his finger and soap... straightens his hair and exits the toilet to his bunk to get his shirt... another "ICE COLD" item... he feels how cold it is, and doesn't have the courage for another climate blast... he rolls up his shirt and places it under his armpit to warm it... as it hits under his arm... the cold just about wipes him out... he decides to sit on it... and he does. 
CLOSE - THE GUARD - AT THE DOOR 
He's been peeking all the while... He figures he's had his laugh, and it's the first time we see he can laugh... he steps into the barracks area, and yells: 
GUARD Doork!  Move it out, and on the double!! 
Helmut jumps with fright, unravels his shirt, runs towards the open door putting on his shirt as we 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BARRACKS H - NIGHT 
Most of the men are clustered around their bunks, and in the dull light we see some of them in the aisles, talking, playing cards... while most of the others are whistling, clapping, and laughing as Uhlmann does his silly little clog dance... it is apparent the ugly episode between Galt and Uhlmann has been forgotten for the moment. 
The lights are hung from cords down off the ceiling and for a complex this size it could use ten... there are but two. 
Uhlmann is having the time of his ignorant life... the more the men applaud, the more he "clog dances". 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - LUDWIG AND ADOLF 
They are both seated on their top bunk, Adolf enjoying the poor dance Uhlmann is giving as Ludwig looks down the aisle towards Helmut's bunk. 
LUDWIG (nudging Adolf) It looks like Helmut found some new ears to listen to his Super Star fantasies... 
Adolf takes a look, shrugs his shoulder, as if to say I couldn't care less... and goes on watching the action of Uhlmann and the other men... 
LUDWIG (to himself, but for Adolf to hear as well; a la Shakespeare, mimicking Helmut) Ringling Brothers would have done anything for me to appear with them but I had to do what was best for me! 
CLOSE - HELMUT AND THE FOUR NEW PRISONERS 
The four new men are surrounding Helmut on the top of his bunk listening to his bragging. 
HELMUT So I told Mr. Ringling if he wanted "Helmut" he'd have to bring his circus to Germany... I am a German, I told him, and my responsibility is to my own people who are my biggest fans. 
1ST PRISONER (NEW ONE) Did you really say that? 
HELMUT (proudly) Of course I did... they offered me anything...  anything I wanted to go with them. 
2ND NEW PRISONER Hey! I saw the circus in Berlin about four years ago...  Didn't  you make your entrance in a long tail coat with a pair of tails on the jacket about fifty feet long?  Sure!  And a funny Little clown at the very end carrying the tails like a woman's train? 
Helmut studies the prisoners glare and decides he couldn't even remember the clown he saw was Gustav the Great, why not?  No one would ever know... and he nods with a kind of studied humility... yes. 
2ND NEW PRISONER You were great! 
Helmut eats it up. 
2ND NEW PRISONER You should have seen him... You'd never know it was him... with the long tails  and white tie... red nose...  long hair...  and a battered top hat... with the hair hanging way down to his shoulders...  and, ah, let me see... oh, yeah... your mouth went from ear to ear. 
HELMUT (softly) Right! 
3RD NEW PRISONER How do "clowns" ever come up with such ideas for faces and make-up? 
HELMUT It doesn't happen overnight... it takes years and years... You try many faces, then finally you hit the one that's just right for you. 
Galt doesn't like no for an answer... 
GALT (gritting his teeth) Now, me and these... gentlemen... we don't expect you to do your "act", just a little something that'll give us a laugh, that's all. 
Keltner moves in from o.s. and stands at the back of the group watching and listening. 
LUDWIG (to all the men) Aw, forget it... and that's probably his problem...  he's forgotten how! 
GALT (trying to suck him in) Wait a minute, you guys... show people have to be in a mood... (to Franz) Play a little music, like in a circus... 
Franz starts playing his harmonica... slowly... 
GALT There!  Ain't that nice?  Don't it put you in a mood? 
HELMUT (getting fed up) I TOLD YOU!  I need things to do my act. 
2ND NEW PRISONER Hey, Doork, what about that drunk routine... that was funny... 
Helmut looks at him puzzled... he can't think or remember anything at this point... certainly not anything relating to any of the previous lies he's told... 
GALT (pacifying his head off) Yeah, that drunk thing...  that does sound funny... 
HELMUT I still need many things... props and... 
2ND NEW PRISONER (puzzled) I don't remember you using anything in that drunk routine. 
GALT (starting to fume) Hey... are you trying to fool us? 
With this Keltner moves in and up to Galt. 
KELTNER Leave him alone! 
GALT Stay out of this, Reverend. We're not doing anything... We just want him to join in the fun. 
UHLMANN (to the men) Right!  If a Reverend can give us a laugh, why not a clown? 
All the men ad lib their agreement with what Uhlmann just said; it appears that they are all on Galt's side, and Keltner knows it. 
KELTNER (to Helmut, softly) It doesn't have to be anything special... a little dance, maybe? 
HELMUT (taking it all out on Keltner) Like that disgusting exhibition you did?  Oh, no... not me! 
4TH NEW PRISONER Go on, Doork, so I can tell my kids. 
HELMUT Can't you get it through your heads, I need... 
GALT (firmly) WE need you to give us a laugh. 
Galt grabs Helmut's jacket and pulls him off the bunk, nose to nose to him... 
GALT So... TRY! 
Galt has Helmut by the neck portion of the jacket, practically choking him to death... his vice-like hands are closing in on his throat and Helmut's trying vainly just to breathe... 
One of the prisoners starts pounding his feet and making a march-like noise yelling from the other end... "So try!"... "So try!"... "So try!"... "So try!"... the other prisoners in the barracks pick up the chant and the stomping... Keltner doesn't even hear the racket they've started because of his concern for Helmut being choked to death... He tries to loosen Galt's hands from Helmut's throat. 
KELTNER That's enough, leave him alone! 
GALT Stay out of it, Reverend! 
Galt spins Helmut around so that his back is facing the aisle and he walks him into the center area... the other men feeling this violence happening, and watching.  Helmut being choked, triggers all of their venom and their hate and they really come on strong... stomping, yelling... 
THE MEN (ad lib) Choke him harder...  see if that's funny!  Make him dance! Hey, Doork!... be funny now! He don't look so funny to me!  He sure as hell looks funny to me!  Hey, Galt, pull his string and make the dummy funny! 
And they stomp and they stomp and they stomp... "So try!"... "So try!"... They get louder and louder... Helmut is kicking his legs, which are off the ground, and Galt won't let go. 
CLOSE - HELMUT 
His face is turning color... he hasn't a lot of air left in his lungs... and Keltner is practically hanging onto Galt trying to get his hands loose... and Galt could carry another three men without batting an eye.  Galt puts him down slowly, in the middle of the aisle, so that just his feet touch the ground, but he keeps his hands around his throat. 
GALT Your public is calling, clown... now, clown! 
WIDER SHOT 
SHOOTING OVER Galt, Keltner and Helmut, we see the door of the barracks slam open and bang against the wall making more noise than anything all the men made together, and they all freeze... 
MED. CLOSE - THE GUARD 
He stands in the doorway, legs spread apart, hands on his waist... and he is wearing a raincoat, the barracks has become totally silent... all that is heard is the rain pecking away on the roof.  Galt has let go of Helmut who just lays on the floor with Galt and Keltner on both sides of him... 
GUARD (walking slowly into the barracks) What is going on here? (to Helmut) On your feet! 
Helmut gets up, dizzily, just about getting oxygen back into his system... 
GALT (like a little boy) He was showing us some of his funny clown falls... 
The Guard surveys the faces of the others as they stare back. 
GUARD Because of all the noise coming from in here -- I have been called up front to explain...  I don't like to be called up front...  I don't like to have to explain... (menacingly) And, you might not like it, either. (a beat) Back to your bunks, all of you... Turn out the lights, and keep it QUIET ! 
As the guard turns to the door to go, Helmut takes a step forward about to stop the guard, Keltner grabs his arm and turns him the other way... the Guard exits closing the door, quietly behind him... The men start to disperse... Galt gives Helmut a "I'll get you for this" look and returns to his own bunk with Uhlmann almost up his ass following... Keltner leads Helmut back to their bunk. 
HELMUT (whispering) I was just going to ask him about the forms... my release... 
KELTNER (shaking his head) That was not the time, believe me! 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
SHOOTING ACROSS the prisoners in f.g. toward the new fence. Guards move among the men, herding them into lines.  On the other side of the fence, we can see the new arrivals lining up, being prodded into place by Guards. 
LONG SHOT - PRISON YARD - DAY 
On both sides of the fence, the prison inmates have assembled in the wet, forbidden yard.  On one side are the regular prisoners, who watch the guards warily as they straighten their lines.  On the other side are the new prisoners -- about two hundred frightened Jews of all ages, including thirty or forty children and a number of very old men and women.  They stand in absolute silence as the loudspeakers blare again, except for the crying children. 
LOUDSPEAKER Attention!  The Commandant issues the following special order:  the north side of the camp is now temporary quarters for non-Aryan prisoners.  Fraternizing between Aryan and non-Aryan prisoners is strictly prohibited.  Any violation of this order will be severely punished.  Heil Hitler... Repeating... 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
SHOOTING THROUGH the booted, outspread legs of a soldier guard in f.g. toward the line of prisoners behind him.  One woman holds a child of about three who cries inconsolably. 
LOUDSPEAKER The Commandant issues the following special order: 
As the announcement is read, the guard's legs turn around, and he walks away from the CAMERA toward the woman.  He stands before her menacingly, and she clutches the child closer to her in a futile attempt to hush its crying. 
LOUDSPEAKER The north side of the camp is now temporary quarters for non-Aryan prisoners.  Fraternizing between Aryan and non-Aryan prisoners is... 
MED. SHOT - PRISONERS 
SHOOTING along line of prisoners from barracks H to show their various reactions as the announcement continues -- disdain, surprise, sympathy and relief.  The guard stands with his back to the line at the end farthest from the CAMERA. Galt is near the CAMERA. 
GALT (under his breath) Jews! 
Prisoners nearest to Galt eye him questioningly. 
LOUDSPEAKER ... strictly prohibited.  Any violation of this order will be severely punished.  Heil Hitler. 
The loudspeakers go dead.  The prisoners stand silently studying the new arrivals across the yard.  The new prisoners self-consciously file back into their huts on the other side of the fence.  As the prisoners begin to break rank -- 
GUARD Prisoners from barracks H remain in line.  Barracks H will remain in line. 
The prisoners turn and look in direction of the Guard as they straighten their lines.  The guard paces slowly along the line inspecting it silently.  On the fringes of the scene, we can see prisoners from other barracks gathering to see what their fellow convicts are in for. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - GUARD 
Finally he stops and contemplates his shabby charges with disgust. 
GUARD I said last night I didn't think I would enjoy being called up to account for the noise coming from barracks H.  I can tell you this morning I didn't enjoy it. 
He walks down the line, looking at each man. 
GUARD I don't know what caused the trouble last night, but I'm not blaming you entirely. (fatherly) I failed you.  I should have seen that you all have much too much energy for the confined life you lead here. (he smiles benevolently) 
GUARD We're going to correct that.  I've been told that energy comes from food. 
MED. SHOT - PRISONERS 
Their faces reflect that they know what is coming. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
SHOOTING PAST the line of prisoners in f.g. to the Guard, who has paused to let his words sink in. 
GUARD So... to help you... all rations are canceled for the next... forty-eight hours. 
A hushed ripple of ad lib grumbling and growling rolls along the line of prisoners. 
GUARD And, if that doesn't quiet you down, I'll think of some other ideas you'll like even less. I'm going to make this barracks the quietest in the camp. (roaring) Is that clear? 
The prisoners are silent but their faces register their resentment. 
GUARD Now, don't blame me. (with sly meaning) I didn't start the trouble last night. 
The truth of what he has said is reflected in the faces of the men. 
GUARD Fall out. 
ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING HELMUT, KELTNER 
As they stand with the other prisoners, watching the guard move off.  Keltner looks worried, the others are angry, Helmut seems undecided as his eyes follow the guard. 
HERMAN Bastard! 
STOUT PRISONER I can't go without food. I'll starve. 
Suddenly Helmut makes up his mind and starts off after the Guard.  Keltner, sensing the mood of the men, puts a restraining hand on his arm, whispers to him hoarsely. 
KELTNER Helmut, don't. 
But Helmut shakes him off and hurries away. 
The other prisoners notice where he is headed and exchange looks.  Keltner shakes his head.  Galt's eyes narrow as he watches Helmut run off after the guard. 
GALT (loudly) He's the one we can thank for the diet. 
MED. SHOT - GUARD - MOVING 
The CAMERA MOVES BACKWARD as the Guard strides toward it, his face sour.  Behind him we can see Helmut running to catch up to him.  When he is close enough... 
HELMUT Sir?  Corporal... 
The guard stops and turns so abruptly that Helmut almost runs into him. 
FULL SHOT - HELMUT, MEN 
Galt takes his hand away from Helmut's mouth.  Helmut doesn't utter a sound.  He knows that Galt and the men mean business and he now must do something.  He nods his head. 
HELMUT All right... all right. 
The men move back to give him room.  Frantically, he tries to think of something to do... he knows it must be great... or else his myth will explode.  He walks around in a little circle, trying, trying to think of something.  Finally he faces them.  He bows his legs and pretends he's a bow-legged man trying to walk a high wire, but he's so frightened the result is pathetic, not funny. 
PAN SHOT - PRISONERS 
The camera works across their faces, which are expressionless. 
MED. SHOT - HELMUT 
Seeing that he is getting no reaction from his "audience", Helmut tries something else. 
He pulls his shirt over his head and walks around like a headless man.  He pretends to trip over some unseen object, peers through the front of his shirt at it, and stamps on the object.  Again he tries to walk over it, and again he slips. 
MED. SHOT - HELMUT, MEN 
as Helmut starts to repeat the same routine, many of the men are openly contemptuous.  Galt wears a smirk.  Keltner, unable to watch Helmut's degradation, moves away.  Others express their disappointment, their disdain. 
MEN If he's Germany's greatest clown, God help the Fatherland.  Doork, the Great!  You got paid for that?  To go without food is bad enough, but to have to watch that! 
2ND NEW PRISONER (accusingly) You're not the clown I saw.  You lied.  You're big all right.  A big liar. 
4TH NEW PRISONER (contemptuously) And I was going to tell my kids! 
UHLMANN He's no clown.  Not even a bad one. 
HELMUT I am.  I am a clown! 
They move away from him. 
HELMUT (continuing) Give me a chance.  I just got started. 
But the men continue to walk away.  Helmut tries to do a hand stand, but his hands slip in the mud, and he lands ignominously on all fours.  When he looks up, only Adolf, Galt and Uhlmann remain. 
ADOLF (sadly) That's what we've been eating our hearts out to see! (a beat) You stink.  You really stink. 
HELMUT I... I slipped.   I can do it. 
Seeing the disbelief on their faces, Helmut becomes almost hysterical.  He is still on his knees. 
HELMUT I am a clown.   I am.  I am. 
He pounds on the ground in frustration.  Galt spits contemptuously, and the three start to leave.  Galt turns back, looks down at Helmut.  Very deliberately, he comes forward to stand at a mud puddle. 
GALT Doork the Great. 
With that he kicks a shower of mud directly into Helmut's face. 
CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT 
The mud splatters over his face.  He cries out.  His hands go to his eyes instinctively.  he kneels there, rocking back and forth in misery.  Then from o.s., we HEAR a tiny, tentative laugh -- the tiniest laugh ever heard.  Helmut looks up quickly.  He isn't sure that he heard it. 
Then it comes again, a little stronger.  He looks around quickly to see who has come back to taunt him, to ridicule him. 
LONG SHOT - PRISON YARD - HELMUT'S POV 
The yard is empty except for a few prisoners from other barracks way off on the other side. 
CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT 
He is puzzled.  Then again he hears the laugh o.s.  He turns slowly to look behind him. 
MED. SHOT - BOY - HELMUT'S POV 
On the other side of the fence stands a wide-eyed boy of about eight, who is watching Helmut timidly.  The ragged youngster laughs again, hesitantly, as if unsure what Helmut is doing is supposed to be funny, but finding it so nevertheless. 
CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT 
He looks uncertainly at the youngster.  Is the child ridiculing him, too?  He leans over the mud puddle and looks at his reflection.  He likes what he sees.  The mud on his face looks almost like a primitive clown mask.  Very deliberately Helmut scoops up more mud and puts a blob of it on the end of his nose.  He waits for the child's reaction. 
CLOSE SHOT - BOY 
His eyes are laughing, but his little lips are pressed tight together.  He has been taught not to make sounds... not even sounds of laughter.  But finally what he is looking at becomes too much for him and the laughter spills out between his lips as they form a smile.  He laughs delightedly now, satisfied that Helmut is being purposely amusing. 
TWO SHOT - HELMUT, BOY 
Helmut gets to his feet, bows slightly and stiffly to the child, and then attempts another hand stand.  This time he holds himself up for a moment and then deliberately allows himself to fall on his back in the mud. 
CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT 
As he lands, he quickly glances off towards his barracks, but from the look of disappointment on his face, we know that none of his barracks mates are watching.  When he hears more laughter from o.s., he quickly rolls on his side to look. 
MED. SHOT - CHILDREN - HELMUT'S POV 
Two more youngsters have joined the first, and all are laughing excitedly.  The first child jumps up and down, clapping his hands. 
WIDER ANGLE - FROM THE FENCE - FAVORING HELMUT 
Helmut gets up and bows, more deeply this time, a tribute to the children's vindication for his claim that he is a clown. He turns toward the direction of his barracks. 
HELMUT (screaming at top of voice) Come back, damn you, come back.  The children... they're laughing.  They're laughing.  I am a clown.  I am a clown. 
Helmut shakes his head "yes", turns and quickly hustles off in the direction of his own barracks, the CAMERA MOVING with him.  After a few steps. 
BIG PRISONER'S VOICE Doork! 
MED. SHOT - BIG PRISONER - HELMUT'S POV 
The Big Prisoner looks at Helmut, then at the piece of bread Helmut had given him.  His manner is self-conscious.  He tosses the piece of bread to Helmut. 
MED. SHOT - HELMUT, BIG PRISONER, OLD PRISONER 
Helmut catches the bread, his smile expressing his thanks. The Old Prisoner puts his arm around the Big Prisoner's shoulder, while the Big Prisoner tries not to show that he is pleased with himself for his "generous" act. 
MED. SHOT - HELMUT 
Taking bites of the bread, Helmut, rather jauntily, lopes off toward his own barracks.  As he moves among the other prisoners, the CAMERA MOVING with him, we see many of them point or nod toward Helmut and smile good-naturedly.  Helmut is completely unaware of them, so lost is he in his own thoughts. 
EXT. BARRACKS H - MED. SHOT - KELTNER, FRANZ, HERMAN - DAY 
They sit in the shade beside their barracks.  Herman is using his empty bowl as a fan.  Keltner is just finishing his food. Franz is examining his jacket, his empty bowl beside him on the ground. 
FRANZ (IRRITATED) I mean it this time. 
KELTNER Don't tell us.  Tell him. 
Franz holds up the tattered jacket to show that a button is missing. 
FRANZ What am I supposed to do? Use pins? 
HERMAN Who has a pin? 
Keltner chuckles. 
FRANZ You can laugh.  He isn't always after you for something. 
KELTNER No? 
He fishes in a pocket and pulls out a large piece of chalk, holds it up. 
FRANZ What's that? 
KELTNER Chalk. 
FRANZ What for? 
KELTNER (SHRUGS) Says he can mash it into a powder and put it on his face. 
Herman stops fanning along enough to ask... 
HERMAN Where'd you get it? 
KELTNER From a guard. 
Astonished, Herman and Franz look at him questioningly. 
KELTNER (lowers his voice) A very bad Nazi.  Still has a heart. 
Herman and Franz smile.  Then Franz holds up his tattered coat. 
FRANZ I wish he'd have a heart and use someone else's coat. Or better yet -- his own. 
KELTNER (looking o.s. and nodding) Ask him. 
WIDER ANGLE - FAVORING HELMUT 
As he comes flapping up, still munching on the piece of bread given to him by the Big Prisoner.  Keltner holds out the chalk to him. 
KELTNER Finally got it. 
Helmut takes it and examines it in a very professional manner. Herman and Franz exchange looks.  Keltner waits for Helmut to speak. 
KELTNER (a little annoyed) Isn't that what you wanted? 
HELMUT (holding up the chalk) This will do more for the act than anything.  Wait'll you see! 
KELTNER (a sigh of relief) For a moment there you had me worried. 
FRANZ (indicating bread Helmut's nibbling on) I see you got smart. 
HELMUT His conscience bothered him. 
KELTNER I thought he would kill you when he saw what you had done to his shoes. 
HELMUT (sheepishly) So did I. 
The men laugh. 
FRANZ I don't know what I'm laughing at... look at what he's doing to my coat. (holds it up) Look at it!  Yesterday a button off. 
And you've got it ripped here under the arm.  Besides all that falling down isn't doing it any good. 
HELMUT (firmly) I've got to have it.  It is the only one I can get on and still is tight enough to look funny. 
FRANZ At the rate you are tearing it up, it's going to look a lot funnier. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
They arrive at the steps to the barracks.  Helmut swings Franz's coat over his shoulder as he starts up the steps. 
HELMUT If you have time later, I'd like you to see something I've been working on.  I hunch down and do a tiny soldier parading.  Think they'll like it? 
KELTNER (pointedly) Who?  The adults? 
HELMUT (matter of fact) The children, of course. 
KELTNER I thought the smart clown only played to the adults. 
Helmut, caught in a contradiction of his own "theory" of clowning, gives Keltner an annoyed look, then goes into the barracks letting the door slam behind him. 
CLOSE SHOT - KELTNER 
As he stands at the bottom of the steps -- he shakes his head and smiles as he marvels at the change taking place in the pompous Helmut as the little gentle clown within him struggles to emerge. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. PRISON YARD - PAN SHOT - CHILDREN - DAY 
The CAMERA is PANNING across the faces of about forty children behind the fence as they watch Helmut o.s.  Some of them are laughing; some clapping; some squealing with glee, and a few just watching quietly, but with laughter in their eyes. Behind them, near the barracks on the non-Aryan side, a number of adults also are looking on, but they hang back, fearful that getting too close to the fence might provoke the always anticipated wrath of the guards. 
EXT. PRISON YARD - FULL SHOT - DAY 
We see now that Helmut on his side of the fence is performing for the children on the other side of the menacing barbed wire fence.  Behind him, also at a safe distance because they still aren't certain of the official reaction to all of this, a number of his fellow political prisoners are watching his antics.  But, in spite of his talk about the importance of playing to the adults -- it is the children that Helmut plays to -- and it is for their laughter that he listens. The CAMERA MOVES IN to -- 
MED. FULL SHOT - HELMUT 
And we see that he has used the chalk to whiten his face. With charcoal he has blackened his eyebrows, formed a wide black mouth and drawn lines down over his eyelids to his cheekbones, giving him the appearance of a clown at once sad and happy.  At the moment he is coatless, but Franz's coast lies nearby on the ground.  For the stunt he is doing now Helmut carries the remains of an old broom and a piece of cardboard.  He is trying to sweep a small heap of dirt he has gathered onto the cardboard, but each time he tries, the dirt goes over the cardboard and he must sweep it into a pile again.  After a few attempts he feigns exasperation and ponders the problem.  Inspiration comes.  He sweeps the dirt into a pile again, bends over and very carefully sweeps it into the front of one of his shoes, holding up the split top to let it in.  This accomplished, he is very proud of himself, but when he tries to take a step, some of the dirt comes out.  Frustrated, he ponders again, and again has an inspiration.  He removes the shoe and puts it under his arm. But as he walks away with it, all the dirt slides out through the open toe.  The children roar with delight. 
CLOSE SHOT - LITTLE GIRL 
She is a flaxen-haired youngster of about five who holds a weathered rag doll as she jumps up and down for sheer joy at Helmut's performance. 
CLOSE SHOT - LITTLE BOY 
He is a completely delighted boy of perhaps seven.  Each time Helmut does something he particularly enjoys he hugs himself and spins around. 
CLOSE SHOT - BROTHER AND SISTER 
The girl is no more than four; the boy about eight.  He clings to her hand as they watch Helmut, unsmiling, perhaps not understanding.  The boy looks at his sister, and a tiny smile tugs at her mouth.  The boy smiles back.  The girl giggles. The boy laughs outright.  They have re-discovered happiness. 
They look back at Helmut, both laughing. 
CLOSE SHOT - SISTERS 
The older girl is ten or eleven; her sister five or six, tugs at her arm, and the older girl bends down to her.  The younger girl whispers to her, pointing to Helmut, and the older girl picks her up.  The little one puts her arms tightly around her sister's neck.  Both laugh merrily. 
MED. FULL SHOT - HELMUT 
He is putting on Franz's too-small jacket.  He tries to button it, but it won't go around him.  He sucks in his belly, but then his pants begin to slip, and he grabs at them with an embarrassed look at the laughing children. 
Deciding that the only way to button the coat is to hunch his shoulders, he tries that, but now his shoulders must remain hunched.  He manages to pick up the broom and puts it over his shoulder, playing soldier.  But when he tries to snap to attention, the coat pops open again, bringing another roar of laughter from Helmut's audience. 
Now he marches a few steps toward the CAMERA, stops, snappily puts the rifle down at rest position and salutes -- knocking himself flat.  Another roar of laughter.  As it swells, we -- 
PAN SHOT - JEWISH PRISONERS 
The laughter o.s. continues to swell as the CAMERA PANS across the faces of the adult Jewish prisoners huddled near their huts.  They smile, fearfully at first, then break into timorous laughter. 
ARYAN PRISONERS - PAN SHOT 
As the laughter swells even more, the CAMERA MOVES over the faces of the political prisoners on Helmut's side of the camp.  They, too, are laughing -- some tolerantly; some at Helmut rather than with him, but they are laughing. 
As the laughter continues to SWELL, the CAMERA PANS over to yard-guard.  He is trying very hard not to laugh.  The result is a self-conscious giggle. 
As the laughter grows even louder, the CAMERA PANS as though wafted on the waves of laughter, up to a guardtower, and we see two rifle-armed soldiers in the tower watching the performance below them.  They gesture in Helmut's direction and laugh. 
The CAMERA continues to PAN over to the administration building and UP to an open window on the second floor. 
CUT TO: 
INT. COMMANDANT'S OFFICE - FULL SHOT - DAY 
LT. SCHARFF, handsome, mid-30's, stands with his back to CAMERA at an open window in a small, but luxuriously furnished office.  The window through which he is looking opens onto the prison yard.  An AIDE pokes his head in the doorway. 
AIDE (in a loud whisper) He's coming back down the hall. 
Scharff nods, quickly closes the window, gives a look around the room, and follows the Aide out. 
CUT TO: 
INT. COMMANDANT'S OUTER OFFICE - FULL SHOT 
As Scharff comes through the door from the adjoining room. The Aide is standing in front of a small desk.  Scharff takes his position beside the door into the outer office.  They wait.  After a beat, the room's other door opens and in comes COL. HEINRICH BESTLER, a slightly built, pinch-faced SS officer in his 50's.  Scharff and Aide spring to attention and give him the salute. 
SCHARFF AND AIDE Heil Hitler. 
BESTLER Heil Hitler. (striding into his inner office as he passes Scharff) 
BESTLER (continuing) Come in. 
CUT TO: 
INT. COMMANDANT'S OFFICE - FULL SHOT 
Helmut goes to the door and looks out. 
CUT TO: 
LONG SHOT - CHILDREN AT THE FENCE - HELMUT'S POV 
The children are still pressed against the fence, still trying to get a glimpse of Helmut 
CUT TO: 
MED. SHOT - BARRACK "H" 
Helmut stands just inside the doorway... looking out. 
HELMUT I wish to God I didn't care.  I wish to God I could forget them. 
Helmut walks back to Keltner. 
HELMUT But I can't. 
Helmut looks at Keltner, his eyes pleading for help. 
KELTNER I'm going to ask you a question, Helmut, and I want you to think carefully before you answer. 
Helmut nods. 
KELTNER The reason you can't get them out of your mind -- is it because you need them -- for you audience? 
Helmut drops his eyes as he attempts to find the right answer. 
KELTNER I want the truth. 
HELMUT (after a moment) I know I can't perform for them anymore.  I know that. (a beat) I really don't know what the reason is.  I think it's got something to do with... well, I don't want those little ones to think I've turned against them, too.  That's why I've got to do something.  Something. 
Keltner studies Helmut for a moment. 
KELTNER You'll be taking a chance.  A great chance. 
Helmut nods that he know this. 
KELTNER (very definite) All right!  Come on then. 
HELMUT Where are you going? 
KELTNER You want to talk to the children? Well, I think I can help you. 
HELMUT There's no reason for you to get involved in this. 
KELTNER Reason?  When war is waged against children!  That is reason enough for the whole damn world to get involved. And it will, believe me, it will. 
Keltner puts his arm around Helmut's shoulder.  Helmut grins, a broad grin of thanks. 
KELTNER So, come on, Doork the Great, let's start getting involved. 
They both walk quickly to the door. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HELMUT'S BARRACK - DAY 
As Keltner and Helmut come out.  In the b.g. we can see the soccer game still going on, the players shouting excitedly at each other.  Keltner surveys the scene for a moment. 
KELTNER Wait here. 
He moves down the line of barracks toward the mess hall. 
EXT. PRISON YARD - FULL SHOT - DAY 
As Keltner moves among the men lounging around the barracks, talking and watching the soccer game.  Trying to appear as nonchalant as possible, we whispers something to a group of prisoners.  They glance back at Helmut and then nod.  Keltner moves on to another group, taking care to avoid the two yard guards, one of which is the guard in charge of Barrack "H". Again Keltner murmurs something to the other prisoners, and again they look at Helmut and nod assent.  Keltner goes on to another group.  As he does, the men in the first group casually disperse and start across the yard toward the fence, moving around the soccer players.  One of them goes up to Ludwig, who is playing in the match, and whispers something to him.  Ludwig nods, and the other prisoners move away. Ludwig runs off chasing the "ball". 
MED. SHOT - LUDWIG 
as he storms into a clutch of players, including Galt, all kicking at the "ball". 
LUDWIG (low to Galt) Kessler is going to talk to the children. Cover him. 
GALT (mean) Who says so? 
LUDWIG (evenly) The Reverend says cover him... so we cover him. 
The players around Galt give him a meaningful look and he gets their message. 
GALT All right!  I was just asking. 
FULL SHOT 
As Keltner's plot takes shape, we see a dozen or so prisoners wander, apparently aimlessly, across the yard and form a spectator's section for the soccer game with their backs to the fence, thus providing a shield between the children and the guards.  The game picks up tempo, but the play somehow stays in the center of the yard, strengthening the shield. 
MED. SHOT - HELMUT 
As he watches the plan in action.  Keltner rejoins him. 
KELTNER You know what to do? 
Helmut nods. 
SCHARFF You see, sir, he's been trying to get a review of his case.  Claims he's here by mistake.  I could tell him you would recommend the review. 
BESTLER A man who wants something.  Good. Very good strategy, Lieutenant. (he turns to face Scharff) However, when you bring him back here, return him to solitary and keep him there. (a beat) I've seen the best of men, after several years in solitary, unable to remember even their own names. 
SCHARFF Then I have your permission to take the clown. 
BESTLER Permission granted. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
LONG SHOT - OPEN ROAD - DAY 
A small open truck with 12 soldiers in the back, followed by a staff car, move along the road. 
INT. STAFF CAR - MOVING - DAY 
DRIVER is in the front seat, Helmut and Scharff in the back. 
MED. SHOT - HELMUT - SCHARFF 
Helmut has been cleaned up, but still shows the effects of the beating and his stay in solitary.  Holding a small mirror, he is applying his makeup.  He occasionally closes or tries to shade his eyes from the light.  They ride on in silence. Scharff stares straight ahead. 
HELMUT Wish you could've gotten the big shoes.  The children laugh so when they see them flopping up and down. 
Scharff makes no reply.  Helmut starts to put on his big black mouth. 
HELMUT (a touch of the old arrogance) The Commandant, himself, asked for me! (a beat) You say he's personally requesting a review of my case!  Why, that means I'm practically on my way back to Berlin. (studies mouth in mirror) Should be red.  Mouth looks better in red. (a beat) Know the first thing I'm going to do when I get to Berlin?  Buy an overcoat with a fur collar.  Had such a coat. Very elegant. Very elegant. (finishing the up- turned corners of mouth) It's a good idea... moving the children. 
Scharff reacts to this.  He looks sharply at Helmut. 
HELMUT Prison's no place for children. I said all along that it was some kind of mistake. 
SCHARFF (uncomfortable) Finish your makeup.  We're almost there. 
HELMUT Know what Johann Keltner said? 
SCHARFF Who? 
HELMUT Keltner.  From my barracks.  The minister. He said... Let me think. He said... men who wage war on children. That's it. Men who wage war on children... commit such a crime... (a beat as he thinks) ... such a heinous crime.  That's it.  Men who wage war on children commit such a heinous crime that even the devil damns their souls. 
Scharff looks as though he'd just been slapped across the face.  He quickly turns toward the window.  Helmut inspects his reflection in the mirror as he draws black vertical lines down over each eye -- giving him a very lost, sad, dejected look. 
EXT, RAILROAD SIDING - LONG SHOT - DAY 
as the truck and staff car leave the highway and jolt down a short roadway to a railroad siding where a boxcar sits on the tracks.  Uniformed GUARDS stand watch on both sides of the car, which has the door nearest the CAMERA, partially open.  The truck and staff car pull up to the nearest boxcar. The soldiers jump from the rear of the truck, one of them carrying a large burlap sack. 
MED. SHOT 
as Scharff gets out of the car, from the boxcar comes the SOUND of children crying. 
SCHARFF (to Helmut in car) Wait here. 
Scharff strides purposefully over to Sergeant Hoffman, the guard beside the open door.  Hoffman salutes Scharff. 
SCHARFF Any word about the train yet? 
HOFFMAN No, sir.  The last we heard -- it won't get here until evening. 
SCHARFF Anyone been around? 
HOFFMAN No, sir. 
SCHARFF With all that wailing, it's a wonder. Couldn't you keep them quiet? 
HOFFMAN I didn't know what to do, Lieutenant. I was afraid to close both doors. 
SCHARFF (to other soldiers) Keep a tight guard on the whole area. No one gets near here.  Understand? (to Hoffman) You post them. 
HOFFMAN (saluting) Yes, sir. 
Hoffman moves over to soldiers and begins giving them their orders. 
SCHARFF (to soldier holding the sack) Leave that here. 
The soldier puts down the sack, and hurries off after the others with Hoffman leading the way.  Scharff turns toward the staff car. 
SCHARFF (calling to Helmut) Over here, Clown. 
Helmut quickly gets out of the car and moves over to Scharff. He looks toward the partially open door. 
HELMUT They're crying. 
SCHARFF (indicating the sack) Take that in to them. 
Helmut picks up the sack and peers into it. 
HELMUT What is it? 
SCHARFF Bread.  They won't wait so loud with their mouths full. 
HELMUT (shocked) How... how long have they been here? 
SCHARFF You just get in there and keep them quiet.  You can do that, can't you? 
Helmut nods.  Scharff puts his hand on Helmut's shoulder. Helmut stiffens under his touch. 
BOY W-I-L-L-I-E. 
HELMUT Fine.  I'll just write that on top of your head. 
Using the eraser end of the pencil, Helmut carefully traces the letters on top of the boy's head.  The youngster peers upward, wondering. 
HELMUT There.  See, this way we'll all be able to tell everybody else's name just by looking at his head. 
CLOSE SHOT - BOY 
still looking up, but now doubtful. 
BOY Did you really? 
MED. SHOT - THE GROUP 
HELMUT Of course I did.  Here... 
He pulls an older boy to his feet, winks at him and points to the first boy's head. 
HELMUT (to the older boy) Tell him what it says. 
OLDER BOY (giggling) It says Willie. 
BOY (impressed) Really?  Truly? 
He puts his hand to his head. 
HELMUT Be careful.  Don't smear it. (he glances around) Let's see now... Yes.  You shall be next. 
He points to a Czech girl of about six.  He motions for her to come over to him.  She shyly bows her head.  Her friends push her forward. Helmut holds out his hand to her, she grabs it. 
HELMUT What is your name? 
She looks at him, then at the other Czech children.  They all giggle. 
HELMUT (squatting down beside her) Forgive me.  I don't speak your language. 
He gently plants a kiss on her cheek and she puts an arm around his neck. 
HELMUT (to others) See!  We understand each other. Now... (he points to Willie) Willie. (he points to himself) Doork. (points again to Willie) Willie. (pointing to himself) Doork. 
The child's eyes light up and she whispers into Helmut's ear. 
HELMUT A beautiful name!  Now you tell all the children. 
CZECH GIRL (almost a whisper) Inga. 
HELMUT It's such a pretty name... say it again. 
CZECH GIRL (more sure of herself) Inga! 
She quickly bows her head for Helmut to outline her name on the top of it. 
HELMUT (with a flourish of his pencil) I-N-G-A.  There it is. 
The little girl gives a quick curtsy and hurries back to her group.  Helmut glances around at the children. 
HELMUT Let's see now.  Who wants to be next. 
The little girl with the doll presses forward. 
HELMUT You? 
Shaking her head she holds up the doll. 
HELMUT Her? 
LITTLE GIRL So the little children will know her name. 
HELMUT Of course.  That way she can't get lost, can she?  What's her name? 
LITTLE GIRL Frederika. 
HELMUT (mock dismay) Frederika? 
He studies the top of doll's tiny head.  Then he holds up his hand and measures off a distance of about three inches in the air with thumb and forefinger. 
HELMUT Frederika! 
Next he puts the doll's head between his thumb and forefinger, illustrating that the head is too small for the name. 
HELMUT Couldn't we just make it Freda? 
LITTLE GIRL (solemnly) Oh, no!  Frederika. 
Helmut shrugs, closes one eye and begins writing in tiny letters on the doll's head.  The children laugh delightedly. 
EXT. RAILROAD SIDING - FULL SHOT - DAY 
Sergeant Hoffmann is walking his post beside the open door of the boxcar.  Inside we can see Helmut and the children and HEAR their laughter. 
The CAMERA PANS over to the staff car, where Scharff sits in the front seat smoking a cigarette and waiting. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
MED. SHOT - SERGEANT HOFFMAN 
With a cautious look around, he reaches under the waiting boxcar and brings out a box-type, battery operated lantern. He goes to the boxcar door and peers inside. 
SERGEANT HOFFMAN (calling) All right, clown, time to get off. 
Helmut appears at the door and looks down. 
HELMUT What is it? 
SERGEANT HOFFMAN Train is here.  They are hooking it up now. (he hoists the lantern inside) Here.  Tell them not to light it up until the doors are closed. 
Helmut gives him a look of deep gratitude. 
SERGEANT HOFFMAN (curtly) And get off right now. 
Just then the boxcar is jolted as the locomotive makes contact and Hoffman runs off toward the front of the car. 
INT. BOXCAR - EVENING 
The jolt has awakened several of the children, who gather around Helmut in the dimness of the car, frightened and bewildered. 
CHILDREN We're moving.  What's happening? What was the noise?  Doork, where are we going? 
HELMUT (forced gaiety) It's nothing.  You're going for a train ride.  What do you think of that?  A real train ride. 
CHILDREN (pressing close -- sensing his anxiety) Is it far?  Are you coming, too?  I don't want a train ride. 
HELMUT Oh, it'll be fun.  I would like to come, but I don't think I can. 
CHILDREN (pleading) Please come, Doork.  Please.  Please. Please. 
HELMUT I can't.  They want me to stay here. 
There are cries from the children, whose pleading eyes make Helmut terribly uncomfortable.  He backs toward the door. 
HELMUT But... I'll come to see you.  Soon as I can. And, I want you all to promise me to be very good.  No crying. 
The children stare at him silently, their eyes unconsciously accusing.  With him goes all their security.  Helmut knows it, but he has no choice.  When he reaches the door... 
HELMUT If you want me...  remember, just close your eyes. 
CLOSE SHOT - LITTLE GIRL WITH THE DARK EYES 
Wordlessly, she shuts her eyes -- tight. 
PAN SHOT - CHILDREN 
Following the dark-eyed girl's example, the smaller children one by one, close their eyes. 
CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT 
Near tears with emotion, he wavers.  Then with great control.. 
HELMUT (huskily) Goodbye. 
MED. SHOT - HELMUT 
He turns and sits down on the floor of the car with his feet hanging outside.  He is just about to jump down when he is stopped by a LOUD WAIL of anguish from one of the children behind him.  He turns and looks back at them. 
MED. SHOT - CHILDREN - HELMUT'S POV 
A BOY of about six, one of the Czech youngsters, is crying with the dejection of a lad who has just lost everything. The other little Czechs and the older girl who first recognized Helmut at the boxcar door are trying unsuccessfully to console him.  Between cooing and patting the boy's shoulder, the girl throws accusing looks at Helmut. 
WIDER ANGLE - TO INCLUDE HELMUT 
Uncertain what to do, Helmut glances around outside. Satisfied that the train isn't going to move at once, he gets up and goes to the children. 
HELMUT What's this now?  Crying?  After all the fun we've had? 
The boy only looks at Helmut and goes right on crying.  Helmut looks helplessly at the older girl. 
GIRL It's his birthday.  He thought there would be presents. 
HELMUT (to girl) He's a Czech.   Do you speak... 
GIRL (annoyed) Of course not! 
Helmut is angry with the girl because he really wants to get off the train and yet can't because of the accusing look in her eyes. 
HELMUT (pointedly) Then how do you know it's his... birthday? 
GIRL (with typical child logic) He told me. 
HELMUT He speaks German? 
GIRL No. 
HELMUT But he told you it's his birthday? 
The girl nods firmly as do the other children.  The boy watches it all, wide-eyed.  Helmut figures to put an end to this. 
HELMUT What date is this? 
GIRL (after thinking it over) Why, it's his birthday! 
SCHARFF Kessler in the car? 
SERGEANT HOFFMAN Kessler? 
SCHARFF The clown? 
SERGEANT HOFFMAN (looking around) I... I guess he is, sir. 
SCHARFF You GUESS! 
Scharff races to the car with Sergeant Hoffman right behind him. The CAMERA FOLLOWS them. 
Scharff peers inside and finds the car empty.  With an angry glance at Hoffman, he hurries to the truck and looks in the cab.  It too is empty. 
SCHARFF (moving back toward Hoffman) I told you to get him off the train. 
SERGEANT HOFFMAN I told him, sir.  HE was standing right by the door.  I'm sure he got off. 
SCHARFF Did you see him? 
SERGEANT HOFFMAN Why, I... 
SCHARFF DID you? 
SERGEANT HOFFMAN You told me to see that the car was coupled on.  When I came back... Why wouldn't he get off? 
SCHARFF Idiot! (shouting) Guards.  GUARDS! 
The other soldiers come running from o.s. 
SCHARFF The clown prisoner is missing.  He may have escaped.  Search the area. If he got off the train he must be around here someplace. 
The soldiers rush o.s. into the deepening darkness. 
CLOSE TWO SHOT - SCHARFF, HOFFMAN 
SCHARFF You know what happens if he gets away. 
SERGEANT HOFFMAN (hopefully) He can't get very far. 
Scharff looks o.s. after the disappearing train. 
SCHARFF If he's on that train -- he's going farther than you know --- 
CUT TO: 
LONG SHOT - TRAIN - EVENING (STOCK) 
The rear of the boxcar is just disappearing from sight in the darkness. 
CLOSEUP - SCHARFF 
SCHARFF ... or he knows. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BOXCAR - MOVING - DAY 
It is the next morning.  Light is coming from the vents and the lantern which hangs from a peg in the middle of the right side of the car.  Helmut is asleep on the floor with the children huddled around him.  He lies on his side with one arm thrown protectively over the little Czech girl, Inga, and Willie.  Behind him, the Czech birthday boy and the girl with the doll are cuddled close to him.  Other youngsters have their heads on his legs and feet, and all are as close to him as they can get. 
He is, in fact, a sort of human bed.  From the train NOISES o.s. we can tell that the freight train is slowing down. Then, with a jolt, it stops, and o.s. we HEAR a truck engine approaching.  Helmut stirs and sits up, trying to get his bearings.  This arouses some of the children and they too sit up and look around. 
CHILDREN What is it?  Are we there, Doork? Where are we?  Why are we stopping? 
HELMUT I don't know. 
He untangles himself, rises and stretches his numbed arms and legs.  He starts toward the door, but it slides open suddenly and a BURLY GUARD vaults inside.   Behind him we see a truck similar to a moving van being backed up to the boxcar.  Helmut blinks uncertainly at the light pouring through the door. 
BURLY GUARD Everybody up.  No noise. 
The children are too startled to move.  The guard notices Helmut and reacts. 
BURLY GUARD Who the hell are you? 
HELMUT Where are we? 
BURLY GUARD How the devil did you get in here? 
HELMUT I... I'm from the other prison.  Got locked in -- by accident. 
BURLY GUARD Ah, for... (shouting out the door) Sergeant! 
CUT TO: 
EXT BOXCAR - DAY 
We see now that the train has stopped at an isolated siding. The truck has backed up almost to the door of the boxcar.  A SERGEANT climbs down from the cab of the van and hurries to the boxcar door, the CAMERA PANNING him there. 
SERGEANT What's the matter? 
BURLY GUARD Look at this.  He's from the other camp.  Got in here with the shipment. 
SERGEANT How did that happen? 
HELMUT I... I was taking care of the children back there and... accidentally got locked in. 
Runkel smiles, moves away from Helmut. 
RUNKEL You misunderstand completely.  The Judas goat is never killed.  He isn't worth killing. (moves to cell door) I'm just asking you to lead them. 
ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING HELMUT 
His eyes plead, "No.  I can't do it.  No." 
RUNKEL Not... even to save your own life? 
For a brief moment, Helmut struggles to find the courage to stand up to Runkel -- but he has no courage and he sinks slowly to his knees, his head bowed. 
CLOSE SHOT - RUNKEL 
RUNKEL (victorious) I'm glad to see you're not a self- appointed martyr. 
TWO SHOT - HELMUT, RUNKEL 
Runkel towers above Helmut who sits back on his haunches, leaning against the wall. 
RUNKEL Just think!  Now you're really one of us. 
The truth of Runkel's remark hits Helmut like a devastating blow.   He turns his face to the wall in shame.  Runkel walks to the door, raps on it, the guard outside swings it open. 
HELMUT (attempting to get to his feet) Sir... Sir... could I... could I have a little time with them before ... before... 
His voice trails off.  Runkel looks at Helmut while he thinks it over.  He moves back to the middle of the cell. 
RUNKEL Yes.  Yes, of course. (he looks at his watch) I can give you about half an hour. (a little smile lights his face) You see, we're not heartless men here. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. CHILDRENS' HUT - DAY 
ANGLE to the door as Helmut and the Sergeant approach from o.s.  Helmut has freshened his make-up. 
SERGEANT Remember what I told you. 
HELMUT There won't be any trouble. 
Helmut goes to the door and starts to open it.  The CAMERA MOVES UP to -- 
CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT 
With a great effort, he composes himself and throws open the door. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CHILDRENS' HUT - DAY 
ANGLE to the door, where Helmut stands wearing an enormous grin.  The children are about the barren room in little groups.  When they see Helmut, they leap up and run to him, clinging to him as he closes the door behind him and moves into the room. 
CHILDREN Doork, Doork, you came back.  You came back.  We thought you'd left us.  Don't leave us, Doork. 
The children continue to ad lib expressions of mingled fear and delight at his return.  Helmut goes among them, patting their heads comfortingly. 
HELMUT There.  There.  It's all right. It's all right.   Everything is going to be all right. 
When the youngsters are calmed, Helmut holds up his hands for silence. 
HELMUT Now I want everyone to put on a big smile and sit down, because we're going to have more fun than we've ever had. 
Slowly, still unconvinced that they have nothing to fear, the children sit on the floor. 
HELMUT Good.  We'll start by seeing that we all have our names on our heads. 
The children begin to lower their heads so Helmut can check to see if their names are still there. 
HELMUT (as he moves among them) Yes, yes.  There's Fritz, Maria, Sadie, Inga, Josef, Nathan, Helga, Willie... 
The little girl with the rag doll holds up the doll for Helmut to see. 
HELMUT Ah, yes, Frederika!  Good.  I see all of your names. 
This is almost too much for Helmut, but he manages to control himself by turning away for a beat.  Then he turns back to the children, his big smile back in place. 
HELMUT Now... on with the show.  Just watch this. 
CUT TO: 
PAN SHOT - CHILDREN 
Their little faces are troubled, worried. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
PAN SHOT - CHILDREN 
It is a half hour later, and now the children are laughing at something Helmut is doing o.s.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK to -- 
MED. SHOT - THE GROUP 
Helmut is walking an imaginary tightrope.  Every few steps he almost loses his balance, but with comical gyrations he manages to complete the walk.  He bows deeply to the children -- and falls flat on his face.  The youngsters laugh, applaud and squeal delightedly. 
TWO SHOT - HELMUT, WILLIE 
