MR. MCALLISTER tries to make it upstairs against the steady stream. 
MCALLISTER Slow down boys, slow down you horrible phalanx of pubescense. 
INT CHEMISTRY LAB - DAY 
A teacher walks up and down the aisles, handing out books. 
TEACHER Pick three laboratory experiments from the project list and report on them every five weeks. The first twenty questions at the end of chapter one are due tomorrow. 
The students let out a collective groan. 
INT. LATIN CLASSROOM - DAY 
Mr. McAllister paces back and forth in front of the blackboard and gets the students to repeat everything he says. 
MCALLISTER (students repeat after each word.) Agricolam. Agricola. Agricolae. Agricolarum. Agricolis. Agricolas. Agrilcolis. 
Again, please. Agricola. 
INT. MATH CLASSROOM - DAY 
Dr. Hager walks up the classroom aisles with his arms behind his back. 
HAGER Your study of trigonometry requires absolute precision. Anyone failing to turn in any homework assignment will be penalized one point off their final grade. Let me urge you now not to test me on this point. 
INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY 
Students enter Keating's classroom, talking and acting up. Keating glances out from his room off to one side. 
KNOX Hey Spaz, Spaz. 
Spaz turns around in time to be hit by a ball of crumpled up paper while Cameron smacks him on the shoulder. 
CAMERON Brain damage. 
The students quickly quiet down as Keating emerges from the other room, whistling the 1812 Overture. He walks up the length of the classroom and out the door without a word. The students look around at one another, uncertain of what to do. Keating pokes his head back in the doorway. 
KEATING Well come on. 
He gestures them to follow and the students, after some hesitation, grab their books and follow Keating out into the main entranceway. 
INT. ENTRANCEWAY - DAY 
Keating stands before the school's trophy cabinets and waits until all the boys arrive. 
KEATING "Oh Captain, My Captain" who knows where that comes from? 
Todd looks up as if he knows the answer, but says nothing. Spaz blows his nose a little too close to Meeks for his liking. 
KEATING Not a clue? It's from a poem by Walt Whitman about Mr. Abraham Lincoln. Now in this class you can call me Mr. Keating. Or, if you're slightly more daring, Oh Captain, My Captain. 
The students laugh slightly. 
KEATING Now let me dispel a few rumors so they don't fester into facts. Yes, I too attended Hell-ton and survived. And no, at that time I was not the mental giant you see before you. I was the intellectual equivalent of a ninety-eight pound weakling. I would go to the beach and people would kick copies of Byron in my face. 
The boys laugh once again, while Cameron, obviously trying to write all this down, looks around confusedly. Keating looks down at papers in his hand. 
KEATING Now, Mr Pitts. That's a rather unfortunate name. Mr. Pitts, where are you? 
Pitts raises his hand while everyone around him snickers. 
KEATING Mr. Pitts, would you open your hymnal to page 542 and read the first stanza of the poem you find there? 
PITTS "To the virgins, to make much of time"? 
KEATING Yes, that's the one. Somewhat appropriate, isn't it. 
PITTS "Gather ye rosebuds while ye may, old time is still a flying, and this same flower that smiles today, tomorrow will be dying." 
KEATING Thank you Mr. Pitts. "Gather ye rosebuds while ye may." The Latin term for that sentiment is Carpe Diem. Now who knows what that means? 
Meeks immediately puts his hand up. 
MEEKS Carpe Diem. That's "seize the day." 
KEATING Very good, Mr.- 
MEEKS Meeks. 
NEIL Suit yourself. 
INT. TODD'S ROOM - EVENING 
Todd is seated at his desk. He scrawls "CARPE DIEM" across a blank page of his notebook. He looks at it for a few moments before crumpling it up and opening up his Chemistry book. 
INT. ENTRANCEWAY - NIGHT 
Hager comes down the stairs. Knox is looking at one of the old class photos on the walls. 
HAGER Ready Overstreet? 
Knox reluctantly follows after Dr. Hager. 
KNOX Ready to go sir. 
EXT. ROAD - NIGHT 
The car leaves Welton and drives towards the Danburry's house. 
INT / EXT DANBURRY'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
The doorbell rings. 
MRS DANBURRY (O.S.) Chet, can you get that? 
CHET (O.S.) I can't, Mom. 
CHRIS (O.S.) I'll get it. 
The door opens and Knox is awe-struck by the beautiful girl (CHRIS) who has answered the door. 
CHRIS Can I help you? 
Knox manages to break out of his daze. 
KNOX Hi. Knox Overstreet. Uh, Dr. Hager. 
CHRIS Hi. 
KNOX This is the Danburry's, right? 
CHRIS Are you here to see Chet? 
KNOX Mrs. Danburry? 
Chris begins to laugh as Mrs. Danburry arrives behind her. 
CHRIS No. 
MRS DANBURRY Sorry. Thank you Chris. I'm Mrs. Danburry. You must be Knox. 
KNOX Yes. 
MRS DANBURRY (to Dr. Hager) Back by nine. (to Knox) Please come in. 
CHET (O.S.) Chris, come on, what are you doing? 
CHRIS Chet, I'm coming. 
Knox enters the house, his mind still hung up on Chris as MR DANBURRY comes out of the living room to meet him. 
MR DANBURRY Knox. How are you? Joe Danburry. 
KNOX Nice to meet you sir. 
MR DANBURRY Well he's the spitting image of his father, isn't he. How is he? Come on in. 
CHET (O.S.) Chris! 
KNOX He's great. He just did a big case for GM. 
CHRIS (O.S.) I'm coming. 
MR DANBURRY I know where you're headed, like father like son, huh? 
INT. STUDENT LOUNGE - NIGHT 
Several students are throwing darts at a small rubber skeleton hanging from the bulletin board. Various students are studying and playing games. Meeks and Pitts are sitting at one table working on their "hi-fi system". Meeks is waving an antenna around with no luck. Pitts points out to him that he forgot to plug it in. Neil, Cameron, and Charlie are working on their trig homework. 
KEATING I mean, how can you describe poetry like American Bandstand? I like Byron, I give him a 42, but I can't dance to it. 
Charlie suddenly appear to become interested in the class. 
KEATING Now I want you to rip out that page. 
The students look at Keating as if he has just gone mad. 
KEATING Go on, rip out the entire page. You heard me, rip it out. Rip it out! 
Charlie looks around at the others. He then looks down at his own notes, which consists of drawing breasts. 
KEATING Go on, rip it out. 
Charlie rips the page out and holds it up. 
KEATING Thank you Mr. Dalton. Gentlemen, tell you what, don't just tear out that page, tear out the entire introduction. I want it gone, history. Leave nothing of it. Rip it out. Rip! Begone J. Evans Pritchard, Ph.D. Rip, shred, tear. Rip it out. I want to hear nothing but ripping of Mr. Pritchard. 
Meeks looks around reluctantly and then finally begins tearing out pages. 
KEATING We'll perforate it, put it on a roll. 
Keating sees Cameron still hesitating. 
KEATING It's not the bible, you're not going to go to hell for this. Go on, make a clean tear, I want nothing left of it. 
Keating goes over to his room. Cameron turns around to Neil. 
CAMERON We shouldn't be doing this. 
NEIL Rip, rip, rip! 
Neil makes Cameron turn back around. 
KEATING (O.S.) Rip it out, rip! 
From outside the classroom, Mr. McAllister hears all the noise and sees all the students ripping out the pages. He bursts into the room. 
MCALLISTER What the hell is going on here? 
The boys all turn around in shock. Charlie stuffs a crumpled page into his mouth. Keating emerges from his room with a waste paper basket. 
KEATING I don't hear enough rips. 
MCALLISTER Mr. Keating. 
KEATING Mr. McAllister. 
MCALLISTER I'm sorry, I- I didn't know you were here. 
KEATING I am. 
MCALLISTER Ahh, so you are. Excuse me. 
Mr. McAllister slowly backs out of the classroom. 
KEATING Keep ripping gentlemen. This is a battle, a war. And the casualties could be your hearts and souls. 
Keating holds out the basket to Charlie who spits out a wad of paper. 
KEATING Thank you Mr. Dalton. Armies of academics going forward, measuring poetry. No, we will not have that here. No more of Mr. J. Evans Pritchard. Now in my class you will learn to think for yourselves again. You will learn to savor words and language. No matter what anybody tells you, words and ideas can change the world. I see that look in Mr. Pitt's eye, like nineteenth century literature has nothing to do with going to business school or medical school. Right? Maybe. Mr. Hopkins, you may agree with him, thinking "Yes, we should simply study our Mr. Pritchard and learn our rhyme and meter and go quietly about the business of achieving other ambitions." I have a little secret for ya. Huddle up. Huddle up! 
The boys get up from their seats and gather around Keating in the center of the class. 
KEATING We don't read and write poetry because it's cute. We read and write poetry because we are members of the human race. And the human race is filled with passion. Medicine, law, business, engineering, these are all noble pursuits, and necessary to sustain life. But poetry, beauty, romance, love, these are what we stay alive for. To quote from Whitman: "O me, o life of the questions of these recurring, of the endless trains of the faithless, of cities filled with the foolish. What good amid these, o me, o life? Answer: that you are here. That life exists, and identity. That the powerful play goes on, and you may contribute a verse. That the powerful play goes on and you may contribute a verse. 
Keating looks up at Todd. 
Keating What will your verse be? 
INT. HEAD OF CAFETERIA - DAY 
The cafeteria is filled with students and teachers standing before the tables saying grace. 
ALL For what we are about to receive, may the Lord make us truly grateful. Amen. 
Mr. Keating and Mr. McAllister are seated next to one another at the table. 
MCALLISTER Quite an interesting class you gave today, Mr. Keating. 
The other boys crouch down around Keating. 
KEATING The Dead Poets were dedicated to sucking the marrow out of life. That's a phrase from Thoreau that we'd invoke at the beginning of each meeting. You see we'd gather at the old Indian cave and take turns reading from Thoreau, Whitman, Shelley; the biggies. Even some of our own verse. And in the enchantment of the moment we'd let poetry work its magic. 
KNOX You mean it was a bunch of guys sitting around reading poetry? 
KEATING No Mr. Overstreet, it wasn't just "guys", we weren't a Greek organization, we were romantics. We didn't just read poetry, we let it drip from our tongues like honey. Spirits soared, women swooned, and gods were created, gentlemen, not a bad way to spend an evening eh? Thank you Mr. Perry for this trip down amnesia lane. Burn that, especially my picture. 
Keating hands the annual back and walks away, whistling once again. Neil remains crouched. 
NEIL Dead Poets Society. 
CAMERON What? 
The school bells begin ringing and everyone heads back towards the school. Neil stands up. 
NEIL I say we go tonight. 
CHARLIE Tonight? 
CAMERON Wait a minute. 
PITTS Where's this cave he's talking about? 
NEIL It's beyond the stream. I know where it is. 
PITTS That's miles. 
CAMERON Sounds boring to me. 
CHARLIE Don't go. 
CAMERON You know how many de-merits we're talking Dalton 
CHARLIE So don't come, please. 
CAMERON Look, all I'm saying is that we have to be careful, we can't get caught. 
CHARLIE No shit, Sherlock. 
HAGER (yelling) You boys there, hurry up. 
Neil turns around and faces the other boys. 
NEIL All right, who's in? 
CAMERON Come on Neil, Hager's right- 
NEIL Forget Hager, no. Who's in? 
CHARLIE I'm in. 
HAGER (O.S.) I'm warning you, move. 
CAMERON Me too. 
PITTS I don't know Neil 
NEIL What? Pitts- 
CHARLIE Pitsie, come on. 
MEEKS His grades are hurting Charlie. 
NEIL You can help him Meeks. 
PITTS What is this, a midnight study group? 
NEIL Forget it Pitts, you're coming. Meeks, are your grades hurting too? 
MEEKS I'll try anything once. 
CHARLIE Except sex. 
MEEKS Ha ha ha. 
CAMERON I mean as long as we're careful. 
The boys run into the building. 
Hager walks past the bathroom and into his room. 
HAGER Cut out that racket in there. 
The kazoo player lets out a rude squeek before finally stopping. Hager glares at them for a moment. 
INT NEIL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Neil stands in his doorway. He looks across the hall to the other room where Cameron and Charlie are standing. Cameron gives a thumbs up. Neil closes his room door and takes out his cloak and a flashlight. Setting the flashlight down on the desk, he notices a worn book, "Five Centuries of Verse", sitting there. Opening it up, he sees John Keating's name at the top followed by "Dead Poets". Below the title of the book, is written: "To Be Read At The Opening of D.P.S. Meetings." Along with several lines from Thoreau, beginning with "I went to the woods because I wanted to live deliberately" 
INT STAIRWAY - NIGHT 
The shadows of hooded figures can be seen moving throughout the darkened halls. 
INT HAGER'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Hager hears a dog barking. 
INT HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Someone drops a number of dog biscuits by the dog's feet. He stops barking and immediately begins gobbling them down. Hager looks out into the hallway with his flashlight but sees nothing. 
EXT SCHOOL GROUNDS - NIGHT 
The boys quietly leave the building and set off running across the fields towards the woods. 
EXT WOODS - NIGHT 
The boys search about the trees trying to find the cave. Meeks is searching around when Charlie leaps up behind Meeks in the dark shining the flashlight up at his own face and grabs Meeks by the shoulder. 
CHARLIE Arrr, I'm a dead poet. 
MEEKS Aww, Charlie. 
CHARLIE (laughing) Guys, over here. 
MEEKS You're funny. You're real funny. 
INT CAVE - NIGHT 
The boys are trying to start a fire. The cave is quickly filling up with smoke. 
MEEKS It's too wet. 
CHARLIE God, are you trying to smoke us out of here? 
MEEKS No, no, the smoke's going right up this opening. 
Pitts tries to stand up and slams his head into the low rock ceiling. He lets out a yell while the others laugh. 
NEIL You okay? 
PITTS Oh God. Clowns. 
NEIL All right, all right, forget the fire. Let's go gentlemen. 
Neil stands before the others with the book in hand, and takes a drag on a cigarette. 
NEIL I hereby reconvene the Dead Poets Society. 
The boys cheer. 
NEIL Welton chapter. The meetings will be conducted by myself and the other new initiates now present. Todd Anderson, because he prefers not to read, will keep minutes of the meetings. I'll now read the traditional opening message by society member Henry David Thoreau. "I went to the woods because I wanted to live deliberately. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life." 
CHARLIE I'll second that. 
NEIL "To put to rout all that was not life, and not, when I had come to die, discover that I had not lived. 
Several boys whistle softly in reaction to the poem. 
NEIL And Keating's marked a bunch of other pages. 
Neil begins flipping through the book. 
CHARLIE All right, intermission. Dig deep right here. Right here, lay it down 
CAMERON On the mud? We're gonna put our food on the mud? 
CHARLIE Meeks, put your coat down. Picnic blanket. 
CHARLIE 
Teach me to love? Go teach thyself more wit. I, chief professor, am of it. 
Neil gets up and looks over Charlie's shoulder to see what he is reading. 
CHARLIE The god of love, if such a thing there be, may learn to love from me. 
Charlie winks at the guys and they clap and cheer. 
NEIL Wow! Did you write that? 
Charlie turns over the centerfold to show where he had written down the poem. 
CHARLIE Abraham Cowley. Okay, who's next? 
Neil sits reading from the book by flashlight. 
NEIL Alfred Lord Tennyson. Come my friends, 'Tis not too late to seek a newer world for my purpose holds to sail beyond the sunset. And though we are not now that strength which in old days Moved earth and heaven; that which we are, we are;-- One equal temper of heroic hearts, Made weak by time and fate, but strong in will. To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield. 
Meeks takes center stage and begins reading a poem like he is performing a chant. 
MEEKS Then I had religion, then I had a vision. I could not turn from their revel in derision. Then I saw the Congo creeping through the black, cutting through the forest with a golden track. Then I saw the Congo creeping through the black- 
CHARLIE Meeks, Meeks. 
MEEKS 
...cutting through the forest with a golden track. Then I saw the Congo creeping through the black, cutting through the forest with a golden track. 
Knox picks up a metal container and begins using it as a drum. The other boys stand and begin going in a circle, making music with sticks of wood, combs, etc. 
Then I saw the Congo creeping through the black, cutting through the forest with a golden track. Then I saw the Congo creeping through the black, cutting through the forest with a golden track. 
BOYS 
Then I saw the Congo creeping through the black, cutting through the forest with... 
The boys continue to chant the chorus as they emerge from the cave. 
EXT. CAMPUS - NIGHT The clock tolls two as the boys silently run back to their dorm. 
INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY 
Keating is walking to the front of the classroom filled with students. 
KEATING A man is not very tire, he is exhausted. And don't use very sad, use- 
He points to the back of the classroom. 
KEATING Come on, Mr. Overstreet, you twerp, KNOX Morose? 
KEATING Exactly! Morose. Now, language was developed for one endeavor, and that is? Mr. Anderson? Come on! Are you a man or an amoeba? 
Keating stands before Todd's desk. Todd looks up nervously but says nothing. Keating paused for a moment before looking away. 
KEATING Mr. Perry? 
NEIL Uh, to communicate. 
KEATING No! To woo women. Today we're going to be talking about William Shakespeare. 
The class lets out a collective sigh. BOY Oh, God! 
KEATING I know. A lot of you looked forward to this about as much as you look forward to root canal work. We're gonna talk about Shakespeare as someone who writes something very interesting. Now, many of you have seen Shakespeare done very much like this: 
Keating holds out his right arm dramtically and begins to speak in an exaggerated British accent. 
"O Titus, bring your friend hither." But if any of you have seen Mr. Marlon Brando, you know, Shakespeare can be different. "Friend, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears." You can also imagine, maybe, John Wayne as Macbeth going, "Well, is this a dagger I see before me?" 
INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY 
The students are all seated together near the front of the room as Keating reads from a book. 
KEATING "Dogs, sir? Oh, not just now. I do enjoy a good dog once in a while, sir. You can have yourself a three-course meal from one dog. Start with your canine crudites, go to your Fido flambe for main course and for dessert, a Pekingese parfait. And you can pick your teeth with a little paw." 
INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY 
The students are all back in their normal seats and Keating leaps up onto his desk. 
NEIL So, I'm gonna act. Yes, yes! I'm gonna be an actor! Ever since I can remember, I've wanted to try this. I even tried to go to summer stock auditions last year, but, of course, my father wouldn't let me. For the first time in my whole life I know what I wanna do. 
Neil grabs a handful of papers off Todd's bed and tosses them into the air. 
NEIL and for the first time I'm gonna do it whether my father wants me to or not! Carpe diem! 
TODD Neil, Neil, hold on a minute. How are you gonna be in a play if your father won't let you? 
NEIL First I gotta get the part, then I can worry about that. 
TODD Yeah, but won't he kill you if he finds out you went to an audition and didn't even tell him? 
NEIL No, no, no, no. As far as I'm concerned, he won't have to know about any of this. 
TODD Well, that's impossible. 
NEIL Bullshit! Nothing's impossible. 
TODD Well, why don't you just call him and ask him? And m-maybe he'll say yes. 
NEIL That's a laugh! 
Neil tosses the blanket back onto his bed. 
NEIL If I don't ask him, at least I won't be disobeying him. 
TODD Yeah, but if he said-- 
NEIL (shouting angrily) Jesus, Todd! Whose side are you on? 
Todd says nothing. Neil looks at him for a moment and then takes the flyer back from Todd. He walks over to the window, his excitement gone. 
NEIL I mean, I haven't even gotten the part yet. Can't I even enjoy the idea for a little while? 
Once again, Todd says nothing. After a moment, Neil sits on the heater and Todd returns to his poem. 
NEIL You're coming to the meeting this afternoon? 
TODD I don't know. Maybe. 
NEIL Nothing Mr. Keating has to say means shit to you, does it, Todd? 
TODD W-What is that supposed to mean? 
NEIL You're in the club! Being in the club means being stirred up by things. You look about as stirred up as a cesspool. 
Neil gets up from the window and stands over Todd. 
TODD So- You want me out? 
NEIL No! I want you in, but being in means you gotta do something. Not just say you're in. 
TODD Well, listen, Neil. I-I appreciate this concern, but I-I'm not like you. All right? You, you, you say thing and people listen. I'm, I'm not like that. 
NEIL Don't you think you could be? 
TODD No! I--I, I don't know, but that's not the point. The, the, the point is that there's nothing you can do about it, so you can just butt out. I can take care of myself just fine. All right? 
NEIL No. 
TODD What do you mean, "no"? 
A smile comes to Neil's face. 
NEIL No. 
Neil grabs Todd's notebook of poetry and runs across the room with it. Todd leaps up after him. 
TODD Give me-- Neil. Neil, give that back. 
The two begin racing in circles around the room, jumping from bed to bed as Todd tries to grab his poem back. 
NEIL "We are dreaming of a--" Poetry! I'm being chased by Walt Whitman! Okay, okay. 
Neil drops the notebook. Cameron walks into the room. 
CAMERON What are you guys doing? I'm sure-- You see this chemistry- 
Cameron tries to hold up his book and Neil snatches it from his hands and suddenly all three of them are racing around the room. 
Keating puts a look of disgust on his face. 
KEATING Oh! Boo! Come on, Charlie, let it fill your soul! 
Charlie raises his hands over his head. 
CHARLIE "To indeed be a god!" 
INT. DORM HALLWAY - DAY 
Neil is racing down the hallway, all excited. 
NEIL Charlie, I got the part! I'm gonna play Puck! I'm gonna play Puck! 
He pounds on Charlie's door. 
MEEKS What did he say? 
PITTS Puck? 
NEIL That's the main part. 
KNOX Great, Neil. 
NEIL Charlie, I got it! 
CHARLIE Congratulations. Good for you, Neil. Good for you. 
Neil enters his room with Todd and sits down at his typewriter. 
NEIL Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
TODD Neil, how are you gonna do this? 
NEIL They need a letter of permission from my father and Mr. Nolan. 
TODD You're not gonna write it. 
NEIL Oh yes, I am. 
TODD Oh, Neil. Neil, you're crazy. 
Neil begins typing. 
NEIL Okay. "I am writing to you on behalf of my son Neil Perry." 
Neil begins laughing and stomping his feet up and down. 
NEIL This is great. 
EXT. CAMPUS - NIGHT 
A lone bagpiper plays out on the dock. 
INT. TODD'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Todd is pacing circles about his room as he reads his poem. His pacing slows and then he tears the poem up. 
INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY 
Knox stands at the front of the room with his poem in hand. 
KNOX (quietly) "To Chris." 
Charlie looks up from his desk with a grin. 
BOY 1 Who's Chris? 
BOY 2 Mmm, Chris. 
KNOX I see a sweetness in her smile. Blight light shines from her eyes. But life is complete; contentment is mine, Just knowing that... 
Several students begin to snicker. 
KNOX just knowing that she's alive. 
Knox crumples his poem and walks back to his desk. 
KNOX Sorry, Captain. It's stupid. 
KEATING That's it. Wonderful. Wonderful. 
Keating removes his hands from Todd but Todd keeps his eyes closed. 
TODD And, and all the time he's mumbling. 
KEATING What's he mumbling? 
TODD M-Mumbling, "Truth. Truth is like, like a blanket that always leaves your feet cold." 
The students begin to laugh and Todd opens his eyes. Keating quickly gestures for him to close them again. 
KEATING Forget them, forget them. Stay with the blanket. Tell me about that blanket. 
TODD Y-Y-Y-You push it, stretch it, it'll never be enough. You kick at it, beat it, it'll never cover any of us. From the moment we enter crying to the moment we leave dying, it will just cover your face as you wail and cry and scream. 
Todd opens his eyes. The class is silent. Then they begin to clap and cheer. 
KEATING (whispering to Todd) Don't you forget this. 
EXT. SOCCER FIELD - DAY 
Keating's students are playing a soccer game. After they score the winning goal they hoist Keating onto their shoulders and carry him away. 
INT. CAVE - DAY 
The boys are all sitting around the cave lighting their pipes. CHARLIE Attaboy, Pittsie, inhale deeply. 
MEEKS My dad collects a lot of pipes. 
CHARLIE Really? Mine's got thirty. 
PITTS Your parents collect pipes? Oh, that's really interesting. 
CHARLIE Come on, Knox. Join in. 
MEEKS Yeah, Knox, we're from the government. We're here to help, man. 
CHARLIE What's wrong? 
PITTS It's Chris. Here's a picture of Chris for you. 
Pitts holds up a centerfold. 
MEEKS Smoke that. Put that in your pipe and smoke it. 
KNOX That's not funny. 
CHARLIE Knock it off. Smoke your pipes. 
MEEKS Neil! 
Neil enters the cave carrying a beat up light stand. 
NEIL Friend, scholar, Welton men. 
MEEKS What is that, Neil? 
PITTS Duh. It's a lamp, Meeks. 
Neil removes the shade from the lamp, revealing the shape of a man as the base of the lamp. 
NEIL No. This is the god of the cave. 
MEEKS The god of the cave. 
Charlie begins making loud noises with his saxophone. 
PITTS Charlie, what are you doing? 
CHARLIE What do you say we start this meeting? 
BOY 1 Y-Yeah, just-- I need a light. I just gotta- 
BOY 2 Got my earplugs? 
Charlie stands up and clears his throat. 
CHARLIE Gentlemen, "Poetrusic" by Charles Dalton. 
CHRIS (O.S.) Okay. Bye. 
KNOX Thank you. I'll see you. Bye. 
KNOX Yawp! Can you believe it? She was gonna call me. She invited me to a party with her. 
CHARLIE At Chet Danburry's house. 
KNOX Yeah. 
CHARLIE Well? 
KNOX So? 
CHARLIE So, you don't really think she means you're going with her? 
KNOX Well, of course not, Charlie. But that's not the point. That's not the point at all. 
CHARLIE What is the point? 
KNOX The point, Charlie, is, uh-- 
CHARLIE Yeah? 
KNOX that she was thinking about me. I've only met her once, and already she's thinking about me. Damn it. It's gonna happen, guys. I feel it. She is going to be mine. Carpe. Carpe! 
Knox flips his scarf dramatically around his neck as he walks away and climbs the stairs. 
EXT. COURTYARD - DAY 
The students are standing in a line while Cameron, Pitts, and Knox are walking in a circle. Keating watches as they go around. 
KEATING No grades at stake, gentlemen. Just take a stroll. 
After a few moments, the three boys begin to march to the same beat. 
KEATING There it is. 
The other boys start clapping to the rhythm of their steps. 
KEATING I don't know, but I've been told-- 
BOYS I don't know, but I've been told-- 
KEATING Doing poetry is old-- 
BOYS Doing poetry is old-- 
Mr. Nolan looks out at them from his office as Keating joins the boys and begins marching with them. 
KEATING Left, left, left-right-left. Left, left, left-right-left. Left, halt! 
The boys come to a halt. 
KEATING Thank you, gentlemen. If you noticed, everyone started off with their own stride, their own pace. 
Keating begins walking very slowly. 
KEATING Mr. Pitts, taking his time. He knew he'll get there one day. Mr. Cameron, you could see him thinking, "Is this right? It might be right. It might be right. I know that. Maybe not. I don't know." 
Keating begins walking with his groin pushed forward. 
KEATING Mr. Overstreet, driven by deeper force. Yes. We know that. All right. Now, I didn't bring them up here to ridicule them. I brought them up here to illustrate the point of conformity: the difficulty in maintaining your own beliefs in the face of others. Now, those of you -- I see the look in your eyes like, "I would've walked differently." Well, ask yourselves why you were clapping. Now, we all have a great need for acceptance. But you must trust that your beliefs are unique, your own, even though others may think them odd or unpopular, even though the herd may go, "That's baaaaad." Robert Frost said, "Two roads diverged in a wood and I, I took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the difference." Now, I want you to find your own walk right now. Your own way of striding, pacing. Any direction. Anything you want. Whether it's proud, whether it's silly, anything. Gentlemen, the courtyard is yours. 
The students begin walking about, some walking casually, others making up silly walks. Keating notices that Charlie is still leaning up against one of the pillars. 
KEATING You don't have to perform. Just make it for yourself. Mr. Dalton? You be joining us? 
CHARLIE Exercising the right not to walk. 
KEATING Thank you, Mr. Dalton. You just illustrated the point. Swim against the stream. 
Nolan moves away from the window where he had been watching them. 
EXT. CAMPUS - NIGHT 
Neil is walking by with the notes for the play when he notices Todd sitting off by himself on one of the walkways. 
NEIL Todd? Hey. 
KNOX Now, Chet, I know this looks bad, but you've gotta- 
Chet throws himself at Knox, hurling them both to the floor. He then straddles Knox and begins to punch at him as Knox simply tries to protect himself. 
CHRIS Chet, no! You'll hurt him! No! No! Stop it! Leave him alone! 
CHET Goddamn! 
CHRIS Chet, stop it! 
Chris manages to haul Chet away from Knox. 
CHET Bastard! 
Knox takes his hands away from his face and feels at his bloody nose. Chris tries to help him up. 
CHRIS Knox, are you all right? 
CHET Chris, get the hell away from him! 
CHRIS Chet, you hurt him! 
CHET Good! 
KNOX I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. 
CHRIS It's okay. It-It's okay. 
Chet hauls Chris away from Knox and then points at him. 
CHET Next time I see you, you die. 
INT. CAVE - NIGHT 
Tina passes a bottle of alcohol to Neil. 
TINA Go ahead, pass it around. 
Cameron motions for Neil not to take it but Neil takes a swig anyway. There is a moment of awkward silence. 
MEEKS Me and Pitts are working on a hi-fi system. It shouldn't be that hard to, uh, to put together. 
PITTS Yeah. Uh, I might be going to Yale. Uh, uh, but, I, I might not. 
GLORIA Don't you guys miss having girls around here? 
MEEKS AND PITTS (smiling) Yeah. 
CHARLIE That's part of what this club is about. In fact, I'd like to announce I published an article in the school paper, in the name of the Dead Poets. 
CAMERON What? 
CHARLIE Demanding girls be admitted to Welton. 
PITTS You didn't. 
CHARLIE (whispering to Meeks) So we can all stop beating off. 
NEIL How did you do that? 
CHARLIE I'm one of the proofers. I slipped the article in. 
MEEKS Look, uh, it's, it's over now. 
CHARLIE Why? Nobody knows who we are. 
CAMERON Well, don't you think they're gonna figure out who wrote it? They're gonna come to you and ask to know what the Dead Poets Society is. Charlie, you had no right to do something like that. 
CHARLIE It's Nuwanda, Cameron. 
GLORIA That's right. It's Nuwanda. 
CHARLIE Are we just playing around out here, or do we mean what we say? For all we do is come together and reach a bunch of poems to each other. What the hell are we doing? 
NEIL All right, but you still shouldn't have done it, Charlie. This could mean trouble. You don't speak for the club. 
CHARLIE Hey, would you not worry about your precious little neck? If they catch me, I'll tell them I made it up. 
INT. ASSEMBLY HALL - DAY 
MR. NOLAN At these boys' ages? Not on your life! Tradition, John. Discipline. Prepare them for college, and the rest will take care of itself. 
INT. STUDY ROOM - DAY 
Charlie sits with his bongos as the other boys are all crowded around him. He hits the bongoes as he mimes Nolan's footsteps. 
CHARLIE Creak. He started walking around towards my left. Creak. Creak. "Assume the position, Mr. Dalton." 
The door opens and Keating walks in. Many of the boys get up from their seats. 
KEATING It's all right, gentlemen. 
CHARLIE Mr. Keating. 
KEATING Mr. Dalton. That was a pretty lame stunt you pulled today. 
CHARLIE You're siding with Mr. Nolan? What about Carpe diem and sucking all the marrow out of life and all that? 
KEATING Sucking the marrow out of life doesn't mean choking on the bone. Sure there's a time for daring and there's a time for caution, and a wise man understands which is called for. 
CHARLIE But I thought you'd like that. 
KEATING No. You being expelled from school is not daring to me. It's stupid, 'cause you'll miss some golden opportunities. 
CHARLIE Yeah. Like what? 
KEATING Like, if nothing else, the opportunity to attend my classes. Got it, Ace? 
CHARLIE Aye, aye, Captain. 
KEATING Keep your head about you. That goes for the lot of you. 
BOYS Yes, Captain. 
KEATING Phone call from God. If it had been collect, it wouldn't been daring. 
Keating leaves and the boys gather around Charlie once again. 
CHARLIE All right. Go on. 
EXT. CAMPUS - DAY 
Neil bikes away as the clock bell tolls. 
INT. THEATER - DAY 
Neil walks into the back of the theater and watches various actors rehearsing on stage. A smile fills his face. 
DIRECTOR We're trying to rehearse, okay? Start. 
LYSANDER A good persuasion, therefore hear me, Hermia. 
DIRECTOR Wait, please. Excitement. I don't hear any excitement about this play. And take her hand. Bring her down the stage and stop. And "There, gentle Hermia." Okay? Try again. 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY 
The bell rings and students rush down the hall. 
BOY What's for dinner? 
PITTS Spaghetti and meatballs! 
Neil comes up the stairs as everyone else swarms down to the cafeteria. 
NEIL Save some for me. "But, room, Fairy! Here comes Oberon." 
Neil opens the door to his room and sees his father sitting at his desk. 
NEIL Father. 
MR. PERRY Neil. 
NEIL Wait a minute. Before you say anything, please let me ex- 
Mr. Perry rises from the desk. 
MR. PERRY Don't you dare talk back to me! It's bad enough that you've wasted your time with this, this absurd acting business. But you deliberately deceived me! How, how, how did you expect to get away with this? Answer me. Who put you up to it? Was it this new man? This, uh, Mr. Keating? 
NEIL No. Nobody-- I thought I'd surprise you. I've gotten all A's in every class. 
KEATING Well, you have to talk to him before tomorrow night. 
NEIL Isn't there an easier way? 
KEATING No. 
NEIL I'm trapped. 
KEATING No, you're not. 
EXT. CAMPUS - DAY 
Knox exits one of the doors. The ground is covered with a thick layer of snow. He looks around to see if anyone is about and then hurries over to the bike rack. grabbing one of the bikes, he hurries off. 
INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY 
A crowd of students come in from the cold. Knox pushes his way through them, carrying a handful of wildflowers. He begins searching for Chris. 
KNOX Chris! 
He approaches a girl with hair similar to Chris' and turns her around, only to realize that it's not her. 
KNOX Chris Noel. Do you know where she is? 
GIRL Um, I think she's in room 111. 
The girl points down the hallway and Knox sets off in that direction. 
KNOX Thanks. 
Chris is at her locker talking to a friend. She just closes her locker as she notices Knox coming towards her. She turns away. 
KNOX Excuse me. Chris. 
CHRIS Knox, what are you doing here? 
KNOX I came to apologize for the other night. I brought you these and a poem I wrote for you. 
Chris pulls him aside, out of the main hallway. 
CHRIS Knox, don't you know that, if Chet finds you here he'll kill you? 
KNOX I can't care. I love you, Chris. 
CHRIS Knox, you're crazy. 
KNOX Look, I acted like a jerk and I know it. Please, accept these. Please. 
CHRIS No. No-- I, I can't. Forget it. 
Chris walks away. The school bell rings and she enters her classroom, closing the door behind her. Undaunted, Knox follows, opening the door and standing before her desk. 
CHRIS Knox, I don't believe this. 
KNOX All I'm asking you to do is listen. 
As Knox begins to read his poem, the classroom grows quiet as everyone stops to listen. 
KNOX The heavens made a girl named Chris With hair and skin of gold. To touch her would be paradise. 
Chris holds her head in her hands in embarrassment. 
INT. CAMPUS KITCHEN - DAY 
Knox sneaks in through a side door. He snatches a slice of toast from the counter and motions to one of the staff to keep secret. He then begins to eat the toast as he hurries away. 
INT. STAIRWAY - DAY 
The school bell rings and Knox pushes his way up the stairs past the slower students. At the top he joins the other boys where they are grabbing their books. 
CHARLIE Get out of here. Cameron, you fool. 
Charlie notices Knox and grabs his jacket. 
CHARLIE Hey, how'd it go? Did you read it to her? 
KNOX Yeah. 
The boys begin to get all excited but Charlie shushes them. 
Charlie hustles the boys away. Meeks remains staring at her. Charlie returns to drag him away. 
KNOX Chris, you can't be in here. I-If they catch you, we're both gonna be in big trouble. 
CHRIS Oh, but it's fine-- 
Knox shushes her and leads her out the door. 
EXT. CAMPUS - NIGHT 
Snow is lightly falling as Chris and Knox walk outside. 
CHRIS It's fine for you to come barging into my school and make a complete fool out of me? 
KNOX I didn't mean to make a fool out of you. 
CHRIS Well, you did. Chet found out. And it took everything I could do to keep him from coming here and killing you. Knox, you have got to stop this stuff. 
KNOX I can't, Chris. I love you. 
CHRIS Knox, you say that over and over. You don't, you don't even know me. 
Keating calls out from a nearby car. 
KEATING Will you be joining us, Mr. Overstreet? 
KNOX Go ahead, Captain. I'll walk. 
CHRIS Knox, Knox, it just so happens that I could care less about you? 
KNOX Then you wouldn't be here warning me about Chet. 
CHRIS I have to go. I'm gonna be late for the play. 
KNOX Are you going with him? 
CHRIS (laughs) Chet? To a play? Are you kidding? 
KNOX Then come with me. 
CHRIS Knox, you are so infuriating. 
KNOX Come on, Chris. Just give me one chance. If you don't like me after tonight, I'll stay away forever. 
CHRIS Uh-huh. 
KNOX I promise. Dead Poets Honor. You come with me tonight. And then, if you don't want to see me again, I swear I'll bow out. CHRIS You know what would happen if Chet found out? 
KNOX He won't know anything. We'll sit in the back and sneak away as soon as it's over. 
CHRIS And I suppose you would promise that this would be the end of it. 
KNOX Dead Poets Honor. 
CHRIS What is that? 
KNOX My word. 
Chris walks away from him and then turns to face him. 
CHRIS You are so infuriating. 
Chris gestures for Knox to follow her. Charlie does a little twirl as he joins her and puts his arm around her. They walk away. 
INT. THEATER - NIGHT 
The audience is packed. The stage is set up to resemble a forest and lights dance about it. From behind a bush, Neil emerges, wearing a crown of twigs and berries and twigs on his hands. In the audience, Charlie emerges from his seat, all excited. 
CHARLIE Hey, there he is! Hey, hey. 
Cameron shoves him back into his seat. 
KEATING Shh, boys. 
On stage, Neil hides behind a tree as a girl emerges, similarly clad, but with flowers in her hair. Neil sneaks over to the girl. 
FAIRY 
Either I mistake your shape and making quite, Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite Call'd Robin Goodfellow: 
Neil nods in agreement. 
ACTOR What did you think? 
WOMAN Really I thought you were all just wonderful! 
Neil emerges from the curtains, carrying his costume. The theater is nearly empty now, except for Mr. Perry standing at the back. Neil smiles at him but the smile quickly disappears. 
EXT. THEATER - NIGHT 
Mr. Perry pushes his way through the crowd of people, with Neil close behind. 
MR. PERRY Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. 
The boys notice Neil and try to dtop him to talk. 
CHARLIE Neil, Neil, you were great. 
NEIL I can't, guys. 
TODD Neil! Neil! 
Outside of the crowd, Keating manages to catch up to Neil. He takes hold of Neil's coat. 
KEATING Neil. Neil. You have the gift. What a performance You left even me speechless. You have to stay with- 
Mr. Perry returns from his car and shoves Neil aside. 
MR. PERRY Get in the car. Keating, you stay away from my son. 
CHARLIE Neil! Neil! Mr. Perry, come on. 
KEATING Don't make it any worse than it is. 
Neil and Mr. Perry get into their car and drive away. Keating stares after them. 
CHARLIE Is it okay if we walk back? Captain? 
Charlie motions Todd to follow. 
CHARLIE Knox. 
The boys leave and Keating continues to stare after the car, wiping the falling snow from his face. 
INT. MR. PERRY'S STUDY - NIGHT 
A photo of Neil standing stiffly with his parents sits on a table between a glass of alcohol and a half filled ashtray. Mrs. Perry watches through the window as her husband and son arrive and then takes a nervous puff on her cigarette before sitting down. Mr. Perry walks in with Neil close behind him. Neil sits down beside the desk while Mr. Perry remains standing. 
MR. PERRY We're trying very hard to understand why it is that you insist on defying us. Whatever the reason, we're not gonna let you ruin your life. Tomorrow I'm withdrawing you from Welton and enrolling you in Braden Military School. You're going to Harvard and you're gonna be a doctor. 
NEIL But that's ten more years. Father, that's a lifetime! 
MR. PERRY Oh, stop it. Don't be so dramatic. You make it sound like a prison term. You don't understand, Neil. You have opportunities that I never even dreamt of and I am not going to let you waste them. 
Neil rises to his feet. 
NEIL I've got to tell you what I feel. 
Mrs. Perry stands up. 
MRS. PERRY We've been so worried about-- 
MR. PERRY What? What? Tell me what you feel. What is it? 
Neil looks to his mother and then back to his father but says nothing. 
MR. PERRY Is it more of this, this acting business? Because you can forget that. What? 
NEIL Nothing. 
Neil sits back down dejectedly. 
MR. PERRY Nothing? Well, then, let's go to bed. 
Mr. Perry leaves. Mrs. Perry pauses on her way out and kneels behind Neil. 
NEIL I was good. I was really good. 
Mrs. Perry nods slightly. MRS. PERRY Go on, get some sleep. 
Todd opens his eyes and sees Charlie's face 
TODD What is it? 
Todd looks over to see Pitts, Meeks, and Knox by the door. 
CHARLIE Neil's dead. 
EXT. CAMPUS - DAY 
It is a snowy, overcast morning. Todd walks through the snow. He has his coat on over his pyjamas. The other boys follow closely behind him as he walks down towards the water. He stops and stares out at the snow-covered surroundings. 
TODD It's so beautiful. 
Todd begins to gag and then goes down on his knees, vomiting into the snow. The other boys huddle around him, hugging him. 
CHARLIE Todd. It's okay, Todd. 
PITTS Calm down. 
CHARLIE It's all right, Todd. 
PITTS Todd, it's okay. It's okay, Todd. 
CHARLIE It's all right. It's alright. 
Charlie grabs a handful of snow and wipes Todd's mouth with it. 
TODD He wouldn't-- He wouldn't have done it. 
MEEKS You can't explain it, Todd. 
TODD It was his father! 
CHARLIE No! 
TODD He wouldn't have left us. It's because he- He wouldn't have. His dad was-- his, his father did it. 
CHARLIE Todd. 
TODD His father killed him. He made him do it. 
MEEKS You can't explain it, Todd. 
Todd pushes himself away from the boys and stumbles down the hill, slipping and falling in the snow. 
MEEKS Todd! 
CHARLIE Leave him be. 
The boys watch as Todd runs down towards the dock by the river, yelling and crying. He finally seems to regain control of himself and walks in silence out onto the dock. 
INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY 
Keating sits by himself at his desk. After a moment he gets up and walks over to Neil's desk. Opening it, he finds his copy of "Five Centuries of Verse" and flips through the first few pages. Sitting down at the desk, he returns to the opening page, reading the opening verse written there. Keating begins to sob, then closes the book. 
INT. ASSEMBLY HALL - DAY 
A church service is going on. The boys have joined in the other students in a hymn. Charlie is the only one not singing. He stares off into nothingness. 
BOYS (singing) All my life Thy light shall surely follow me And in God's house forevermore My dwelling place shall be Amen. 
Mr. Nolan stands at the pulpit, with the rest of the professors seated behind him. 
MR. NOLAN The death of Neil Perry is a tragedy. He was a fine student. One of Welton's best. And he will be missed. We've contacted each of your parents to explain the situation. Naturally, they're all quite concerned. At the request of Neil's family, I intend to conduct a thorough inquiry into this matter. Your complete cooperation is expected. 
INT. CLOAKROOM - DAY 
The boys (except Cameron) are sitting about the cluttered room waiting. Charlie lights a cigarette. 
CHARLIE You told him about this meeting? 
PITTS Twice. 
CHARLIE That's it, guys. We're all fried. 
PITTS How do you mean? 
CHARLIE Cameron's a fink. He's in Nolan's office right now, finking. 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY 
Todd is lead up the steps to Mr. Nolan's office by Hager. 
INT. NOLAN'S OFFICE - DAY 
Todd enters the room to see his mother and father seated opposite Mr. Nolan's desk. 
MR. ANDERSON Hello, son. 
MRS. ANDERSON Hello, darling. 
TODD Mom. 
THe door closes behind Todd. He remains standing, not knowing what to do. 
MR. NOLAN Have a seat, Mr. Anderson. 
Todd sits down next to his parents. 
MR. NOLAN Mr. Anderson, I think we've pretty well put together what's happened here. You do admit to being a part of this Dead Poets Society? 
Todd says nothing. 
MR. ANDERSON Answer him, Todd. 
TODD Yes, sir. 
Mr. Nolan puts his glasses on and glances at a paper before him before removing his glasses once more. 
MR. NOLAN I have here a detailed description of what occurred at your meetings. It describes how your teacher, Mr. Keating, encouraged you boys to organize this club and to use it as a source of inspiration for reckless and self- indulgent behavior. It describes how Mr. Keating, both in and out of the classroom, encouraged Neil Perry to follow his obsession with acting when he knew all along it was against the explicit order of Neil's parents. It was Mr. Keating's blatant abuse of his position as teacher that led directly to Neil Perry's death. 
Mr. Nolan motions to Todd's father, who passes along a sheet of paper to Todd. 
MR. NOLAN Read that document carefully, Todd. Very carefully. 
Todd looks at the paper, which already contains the signatures of the other four boys. 
MR. NOLAN If you've nothing to add or amend, sign it. 
TODD What's gonna happen to Mr. Keating? 
MR. ANDERSON I've had enough. Sign the paper, Todd. 
Mr. Nolan holds out a pen for Todd to take. 
EXT. CAMPUS - DAY 
Mr. McAllister leads his students, textbooks in hand, through the snow outside the classrooms. 
McALLISTER Grass is gramen or herba. Lapis is stone. The entire building is aedificium. 
Keating looks out from his office window. McAllister pauses and looks up at Keating, giving him a brief wave. Keating waves back. 
INT. KEATING'S OFFICE - DAY 
Keating laughs slightly as he watches McAllister from the window. Inside, all his belongings have been packed up. 
INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY 
The students are all seated at their desks in silence. Everyone looks as the door opens. They quickly stand as Mr. Nolan enters the room. 
MR. NOLAN Sit. 
The students sit once again as Mr. Nolan walks to the front of the room. 
MR. NOLAN I'll be teaching this class through exams. We'll find a permanent English teacher during the break. Who will tell me where you are in the Pritchard textbook? 
MR. NOLAN Mr. Anderson? 
TODD Uh, in the, in the Pr- 
MR. NOLAN I can't hear you, Mr. Anderson. 
TODD In the, in the, in the Pritchard? 
MR. NOLAN Kindly inform me, Mr. Cameron. 
CAMERON We skipped around a lot, sir. We covered the Romantics and some of the chapters on Post Civil War literature. 
