DEEP COVER 
Written by 
Michael Tolkin and Henry Bean 
Story by 
Michael Tolkin 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
EXT. CLEVELAND STREET - NIGHT (1970) 
Rain. Christmas lights. A rusted out '56 Lincoln rattles down the bleak boulevard. In it: JOE STEVENS, an angry, black man in his late 20's, beside him his 10-year-old son, JOE JR. 
Joe Jr. stares out the window at passing: boarded buildings, whores with raincoats over their heads trying to flag down a john, a black Santa, a knot of drinkers. Breaking the silence: 
JOE STEVENS Your mother okay? 
JOE JR. Yes, sir. 
They stop at a light. Joe Stevens tries to furtively snort a little something. He spots Joe Jr. watching. 
JOE STEVENS (firm, without irony) Don't you do this shit, boy. Don't you ever fuckin' touch it, you hear me? 
Joe Jr. stares, silent; Joe Jr.'s about to hit him. 
JOE STEVENS (continuing) You hear me, goddam it? 
The boy nods. Satisfied, Joe Sr. draws in the stuff. It makes him feel good, strong, worried and determined all at once. 
JOE STEVENS (continuing; charged up) What do you want for Christmas? 
JOE JR. I don't know. 
JOE STEVENS (light changes; he accelerates) You don't know?? You gotta know what you want, boy, if you ever expect to get it. 
A sudden charm to his bravado. Joe Jr. smiles uncertainly. Joe Sr. grins back, pulls up in front of a liquor store. 
JOE STEVENS (continuing) Wait here. This won't take a minute. 
Joe Jr. doesn't notice or doesn't remark that his father, just before entering the store, draws a handgun from beneath his coat. 
The boy gazes dreamily at the street. The lunatic Black Santa marches by, ranting to himself ("Then the white man say..."). The RAIN HAMMERS on the roof and windshield. Joe Jr. breathes on the glass, fogging the scene. 
From the store: MUFFLED GUNFIRE. 
Joe Jr. looks that way. Another GUNSHOT, then: 
His father comes out the door clutching money in one hand. He strides toward the car with a reckless pride. He doesn't notice: 
The liquor store door opens behind him. 
A SHOTGUN BLAST. Joe Stevens' guts splatter onto the car windshield. A look of terrible amazement; he sinks to his knees. 
JOE JR. Daddy!! 
He jumps from the car, kneels by his father. 
The STORE OWNER (47, Slavic) drags the gun toward them, bleeding profusely. 
STORE OWNER (enraged, almost to tears) Fuckin' niggers... fuckin' niggers... 
JOE STEVENS 
looks at the money in his hand: two 20's, two 5's. 
JOE STEVENS Fifty bucks... fifty goddam bucks. (looks up at his son) I'm sorry... 
He stuffs the blood-soaked bills in the boy's shirt pocket and dies. Joe Jr. looks up at... 
THE STORE OWNER 
Bloody, nearly unconscious, he aims the shotgun at the boy who is too frightened to move. 
JOE JR. Please, Mister... 
Terry intercepts him on his way out of the room. 
TERRY She was running behind his chair when he got up. It was an accident. (he's uncertain) A complete... total... accident. 
Stevens looks at Carmen who giggles. He's humiliated by his own temper, attempts to calm himself. Terry puts a sympathetic hand on his shoulder. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. LOS ANGELES - AERIAL SHOT - DAY 
The immense sprawl, the arterial flow of the freeways, the blinding light. We DESCEND... 
INT. TRAIN STATION - UNDERGROUND - DAY OR NIGHT 
People getting off, among them the former Joe Stevens, now known as JOHN HULL. He's carrying a suitcase. 
INT. TRAIN STATION/EXT. STREET - DAY 
Hull goes up the stairs onto a downtown street. 
EXT. ANOTHER STREET - DAY 
South L.A. neighborhood. A 13-year-old BLACK YOUTH selling drugs through a car window. Hull walks by. He's at ease, looking around, his manner subtly announcing that he belongs here, just as in the train station he seemed to belong among the commuters. 
EXT. TRANSIENT MOTEL - COURTYARD - DAY 
A fat BLONDE WOMAN (61, large white glasses, tiny shoes) leads Hull down a corridor. 
BLONDE WOMAN Television mostly. I was on "Sky King" twice, "Ramar of the Jungle." That was a silly show. The jungle was mostly flats... 
They pass an open door where a 6-year-old boy, JAMES, a latchkey, sits on the stoop playing Gameboy; inside, his mother, BELINDA, a broken down whore, is doing her nails and drinking Pepsi. She looks up, bats her lashes at Hull. 
BLONDE WOMAN (continuing) You want my advice, I'd stay away from that bitch. 
She opens the door to the room across the hall. A dump. Hull walks in, drops his duffle: he'll take it. The Blonde lounges in the doorway. He closes the door. 
INT. ROOM - DAY 
Hull empties his pockets on the dresser. Looks at his money, room key, identification. Looks at himself in the mirror. He touches his clothes, his face, tries on different expressions. 
(NOTE: Throughout the film, Hull continually checks himself out in mirrors, both to adjust his appearance to the circumstances and as if in an attempt to recall who he "really" is.) 
EXT. 79TH AND FIGUEROA - TWILIGHT 
On the seam between South-Central and USC. Lots of people out: children, students, dealers, whores. Hull with a new haircut. 
EXT. ANOTHER, SIMILAR CORNER - DAY 
Dealers (most in mid-teens) meeting cars, making transactions. All this casually observed. EDDIE comes up the street, reciting his version of an old street toast. 
EDDIE On the day of the King's castration, all the counts and no accounts were down on the deck with Georgia Tech taking turns in the back seat... 
Those dealers not at car windows, gather around. He never speaks to them, goes on declaiming as he exchanges drugs for money. 
Hull watches, talking to another street person. His appearance continues to change: clothes, posture, walk, gestures subtly conform to the environment, a bit like Zelig. Throughout the film his appearance shifts, depending on who he's with. We always recognize him, but each time he's different. 
He walks up to a dealer, makes a quick buy and keeps going. But he sees them and is seen. 
INT. AN OFFICE - NIGHT 
Hull drops eleven foil balls on a green blotter. Carver counts out money for him. 
INT. HULL'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY 
He sits at the window, eating a burrito, watching little James play in the courtyard. 
EXT. STREET - EVENING 
Hull approaches another Dealer, the 13-year-old seen earlier (angelic face). Like Hull, he's trying to act tough. 
HULL Whatta you got? 
13-YEAR-OLD DEALER (voice just changing) Nickel rock, dime rock. Excellent shit. 
Hull exchanges a folded twenty for two foil balls. He walks off. He has gone twenty feet when... 
RED RANGE ROVER 
HULL There was also a woman, but she's not here. (as Carver reaches in a drawer) I saw a kid killed. Twelve, thirteen at the most. Turf war. 
Carver shrugs: these things happen. He hands Hull a lot of cash, much more than expected. Hull does understand. 
CARVER Get to Elias. Then to Barbosa. 
HULL You can't rush this stuff. 
CARVER Rush it, please. I want art, John, not reality. Budget hearings start in April, and I need Gallegos by then. They won't give us funding for three ounce buys. 
HULL We're not just doing this for the funding, are we? 
CARVER Without funding, we aren't doing it at all. 
TITLE: TWO WEEKS LATER 
INT. CRACK HOUSE - DAY 
Virtual darkness save splinters of light between the curtains. Pipes burn here and there in the gloom. Ten or fifteen crackheads huddle around a battery-operated TV on which Tom Brokaw is narrating an NBC documentary on drugs. A 12-year- old sits against a wall too stoned even for television. 
Hull approaches Eddie, regally installed on an automobile bench seat-cum-sofa, a lit pipe in one hand. We barely notice the redhead kneeling between his legs, face buried in his crotch. He greets Hull from wrecked bliss. They know each other now. 
EDDIE My man, Dudley, he's so fud-ley... 
Hull greets Eddie, some of the others, drops familiarly onto an adjacent auto seat. The patrons are making fun of Brokaw, laughing, exchanging fives. 
HULL Eddie, man, I need... 
Eddie holds up a hand telling Hull to wait. His mind is elsewhere. His features contract in brief concentration. 
CHORUS OF COMMENTS Whatever happened to that Drug Czar motherfucker?... He gave up 'cause he finally realized he didn't know nothing about any of that shit... 
More laughter, etc. Eddie's concentration peaks, breaks off into a sigh and a smile. 
Eddie sings a satisfied little song... 
The redhead rises from Eddie's crotch, and we see it's a boy, seventeen going on death; he might have been pretty a year ago. 
Eddie passes him the crack pipe, lets him suck greedily for a few seconds before ripping it out of his scabrous mouth and offering it to Hull, who, with a grimace that gets laughs, declines. The others continue to watch and comment on the speech. 
EDDIE So what is it you need so bad, blood? Need, need, need?? 
HULL A whole K, quick as you can get it. 
EDDIE (impressed, a trace of envy) Comin' in the world, Dudley. 
HULL (winning grin) All because of my man... 
Eddie likes that, holds out a hand. Hull hits it. 
EDDIE Give me a day. 
Hull nods, rises. 
EDDIE (continuing) Stick around, let the bitch Hoover you, too. 
Indicating redhead. 
In all these scenes, Hull acts indifferent to the horror, but here the effort costs him. He masters his disgust with a joke. 
HULL Only if you Clorox him first. 
Everyone laughs, even the boy. 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Eddie comes out the back door of a building, is immediately collared by Taft (the cop on the videotape). He's in his mid- 40s, stocky, balding. 
TAFT (cheerful, gregarious) Eddie Shitface! Where you been, boy? 
Eddie breaks free, runs three feet before HERNANDEZ (a muscular Mexican) knees him in the groin. Eddie crumples. 
TAFT (continuing) Eddie, I don't think I introduced you to my new partner, Michael Hernandez... 
HERNANDEZ Pleased to meet you, Mr. Shitface... 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
ELIAS (continuing) Nancy, get out of here. 
NANCY For you; it's Eddie. 
She hands him a cordless phone, goes inside closing the door. 
BARBOSA You got a tasty wife, David. No wonder you don't want us coming here. 
ELIAS (warning him) Don't talk about her that way. 
Barbosa laughs. 
GOPHER He can't help it, David, it's his nature. 
ELIAS (into phone, chipper) Eddie... Sure, man, what do you need? 
INT. A BOXING GYM - NIGHT 
Elias joins Eddie and Hull to one side. In the b.g. two guys sparring. 
EDDIE David, this is John, John, David. Eddie, this is Eddie. Everybody ready? 
HULL (to Elias) So what's this, you want to meet me? 
ELIAS (charming, touch of mockery) I like to know the important customers. 
Hull makes a show of weary patience, gestures: here I am. 
ELIAS (continuing) You're taking a lot of weight for a guy we hardly know. Where're you moving this stuff, John? We haven't seen you around. We like to have a sense who your customers are. 
HULL Ah, come on, man, do Macy's tell the Gimbel motherfuckers? 
ELIAS (beat; watches him) Eddie, forget this guy, he's a cop. 
He gets up, walks away. 
ON HULL 
He's blown it. He's been made. The crushing failure. He rallies himself to indignation. 
HULL What is this shit, Eddie? I thought you were the man. 
Eddie's sickened, wants to get paid, owes Taft a bust. 
EDDIE Nobody's the fuckin' man. Go to your place. I'll call you. 
EXT. GYM/INT. A VAN - CONTINUOUS TIME 
Taft and Hernandez, watching the gym. Hull comes out, looks up and down the street carefully. Taft sits up, pays attention. 
TAFT This is our collar? 
Hernandez grunts. 
TAFT (continuing) Who is he? 
HERNANDEZ Some scumbag... 
But Taft clearly thinks there's something different about Hull. He's not sure what, but it troubles him. (NOTE: Hull makes a little move that Taft will later realize was a cop's move. For now he can't quite place it.) 
EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS TIME 
Eddie pleading his case to Elias. 
EDDIE He's no cop, David. He's an animal. You see his eyes? You never see a cop with those eyes. I know this shit, man, you don't. 
ELIAS (giving him an opening) What's going on, Eddie? 
EDDIE Twenty-six thousand cash is what. We need it, David. We're behind. 
Elias studies Eddie: is he a rat? Elias hopes not, but he's going to find out. He hands a fat Federal Express envelope through the window. 
ELIAS (a warning) I want him to get it all, Eddie. 
Eddie bows in gratitude, hurries off. 
EXT./INT. HULL'S MOTEL - NIGHT 
running. Police and SIRENS pursuing. He hurls the Fed Ex envelope into a dumpster. HELICOPTER light sweeps over him. 
As he cuts around a building, Taft opens a car door right into his face. Hull goes down hard. 
TAFT (into car radio) Thank you kindly... 
He waves at the helicopter which goes away, kneels over Hull who is twitching spastically on the ground, gasping for air. Hernandez arrives carrying the Fed Ex envelope. 
TAFT (continuing) How you doin', child?... 
Hull is astonished to look up and see Taft looming over him, the man he remembers from the videotape. He tries to speak: 
HULL (barely audible) You... 
TAFT (briefly puzzled) Me? Of course, it's me. You know me? 
Hull shakes head, winces. 
TAFT (continuing) Hurts, huh? 
Hull tries to curse. 
TAFT (continuing) Here, I want to show you something. You have kids? 
He takes out his wallet, opens it to pictures of his two children, a boy and a girl, seven and eight. 
TAFT (continuing) These are mine. Aren't they the most beautiful children you ever saw? 
Hull groans, twists in pain. Taft sticks the pictures in his face. Hull is affected by the children despite everything. 
TAFT (continuing) Yeah, I know, they kind of leave you speechless. So let me ask, if someone put a gun to your baby's head, wouldn't you kill him if you could? 
Hull just looks up. 
TAFT (continuing) Me, too. And you're the bastard with the gun. 
He takes the Fed Ex envelope from him. 
HULL (hoarse; his first words) You know the difference between a nigger and a black man? 
TAFT Don't jive me, boy. 
HULL The nigger's the one covers Whitey's ass by puttin' the brothers in jail. 
Taft yanks him hard to his feet; Hull cries out in pain. 
TAFT You ain't my brother. 
INT. COURTROOM - NIGHT 
Hull is led in with other handcuffed PRISONERS. Carver is here, catches Hull's eye. Hull shakes his head; doesn't want Carver to intercede. A woman PUBLIC DEFENDER (26, attractive, harried) addresses the prisoners. 
PUBLIC DEFENDER Hi, I'm Shelley Weissbrod. This is only an arraignment, a preliminary hearing, but if you don't have money for an attorney, the Public Defender's office can... 
Hull is listening to this when a BAILIFF taps his shoulder. 
BAILIFF You've got counsel. Over there. 
Puzzled, Hull sees the back of a suit conferring with a PROSECUTOR. The suit turns. It's DAVID ELIAS who smiles, offers his hand. Hull is stunned. Elias enjoys that. 
HULL You're a lawyer?? 
ELIAS I'm your lawyer. 
HULL Who hired you? 
ELIAS (smiles) It's pro bono. If you don't want me, there's Shelley. She's good. She just can't provide special services... 
HULL Like what? 
VOICE (O.S.) (calling the next case) John Hull... 
ELIAS Getting your case called first. 
Elias addressing the court. 
ELIAS (continuing) Your Honor, I believe the preliminary police toxicology report will show that the substance seized from my client was Mannitol, a baby laxative. We move for immediate dismissal. 
EDDIE I don't have it right now. But I can -- 
GOPHER (sadly) Then goodbye, Eddie. I forgive you for what you said to me. 
EDDIE (pleading) Twelve hours. Tomorrow morning. 
BARBOSA Six... seven... (to Elias) You want to do it, David? 
Elias looks stricken. Barbosa laughs. Eddie jumps up. Hull turns away, can't bear to watch this. 
BARBOSA (continuing) Nine... 
EDDIE 
grabs the first thing he lays eyes on, a tiny snail fork and plunges it into Barbosa's neck. 
As if it were a fly bite, Barbosa flings the table aside and, with a long knife already in his hand, guts Eddie from groin to breast bone. Eddie falls like a suddenly emptied sack. 
Elias can't help gasping. 
Hull looks away, hiding his horror. 
Barbosa rips the fork out of his neck and hurls it at the body. 
BARBOSA Piece of shit! 
Elias stares at Eddie's body, transfixed. Horrified, fascinated, afraid, in awe. Barbosa turns to Hull. 
BARBOSA (continuing) What'd you think? 
HULL At least it was clean. 
BARBOSA (pleased, to Elias) What about you, bar mitzvah body? First time you saw somebody die? 
ELIAS (eyes fixed on the body) No. (catching breath) At camp... when I was fourteen... a friend of mine was water skiing... The motorboat ran him over... A junior counsellor was driving. 
BARBOSA You should kill a man some day, David, it's liberating... (walking out) Summer camp. I'm in business with somebody who went to summer camp. 
Everyone else is silent, grave. 
INT. ELIAS'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING 
Through sliders we see a small pool. Elias and Hull sit over uneaten omelets. Both still shaken by the previous scene. 
ELIAS Eddie, man... He was always nice to my daughter. 
HULL How'd a guy like you get into this? 
ELIAS The way most drug lawyers do: clients paid me in product, and I had to move it. Soon I was doing more dealing than law. But this was '83, '84, there was so much money we thought it would never end. 
HULL Yeah. And now...? 
ELIAS The road gets rougher. Cocaine's a dying business. 
HULL Then what are we doing here? 
ELIAS People are always going to want to get high. Every society has ways to alter consciousness. 
HULL Because they can't bear reality. 
ELIAS (smiles) We all need our delusions, only the means change: psychedelics, opiates, prayer, orgies, human sacrifice... 
HULL What's next? 
Elias puts a finger to his lips. 
HULL (continuing) Why aren't you selling it? 
ELIAS I know how to make it and market it. But I need capital. That's the only reason I'm hanging out with an asshole like Barbosa. (feels his hatred of Barbosa) And because I can't get to the big guys. 
HULL Who are the big guys? 
ELIAS Gallegos, et cetera. 
HULL (reacts to the name) Why can't you get to them? 
ELIAS What do you care? 
INT. CRACK HOUSE - DAY 
Hull doling out vials to DEALERS seen earlier with Eddie. 
HULL (V.O.) I can't do this shit. I just can't. 
EXT. A STREET - DAY 
DEALERS going up to cars as before, only now they're Hull's dealers. A well-dressed Black businessman buys from his BMW. 
CARVER (V.O.) But you want to be of use. You want to get drugs off the street, don't you? 
HULL (V.O.) That's why I'm here. 
EXT. SAME - ANOTHER TIME 
Another sale: Teenagers on foot. 
CARVER (V.O.) Well, this is the cost. Pay it or go grow flowers someplace. 
EXT. HULL'S MOTEL - ANOTHER TIME 
He comes out of the motel talking to a Dealer we've seen above. 
HULL You can't back down with them. You've got to project strength, from inside, you know? 
The Dealer nods. Across the street Hull sees: 
A blue sedan. Taft and Hernandez. Taft gives Hull a little nod and grin. 
EXT. STREET - ANOTHER TIME 
Hull sitting in an aging Trans Am, making entries in a notebook. Across the street he watches: 
A PREGNANT WOMAN (19), a squawling baby in arms, buying from one of his Dealers. 
He kicks the dash in frustrated anger. Under the MUSIC: 
HULL Cocksucker... 
As soon as the woman's gone. He goes over to the Dealer, slaps his head, slaps it again. Under the MUSIC: 
DEALER (hurt, confused) What'd you do that for? 
HULL (walking off) 'Cause I can, motherfucker, 'cause I can. 
EXT. SAME - ANOTHER TIME 
A white housewife making a buy from a new mini-van, a baby in the car seat. 
EXT. STREET - TWILIGHT 
Two USC football players (letter jackets, huge) hassling BIJOUX, a woman dealer, pushing her, she pushes back, curses. 
Suddenly Hull comes running up, shoves them apart. He's yelling, pointing a finger in their faces. Elias comes up behind, calmer. 
Hull is smaller than either USC kid, but they back down as he curses them. Under MUSIC: 
HULL ...Touch her again, motherfuckers, I'm gonna mess you up. 
A brief scuffle. Hull decks one USC, and Elias pulls him off. The kids leave. Elias doubles over with laughter. Hull yells at Bijoux and walks off. 
EXT. APARTMENT HOUSE - DAY 
Hull (looking at written address) knocks on a door. It's opened by a beautiful, dark-skinned black woman in a skimpy robe. She looks at him with disarming frankness. He thinks he must be in the wrong place. 
HULL Is David Elias here? 
ELIAS (O.S.) Momentito... 
Through the door we see him emerge from a bedroom stepping into his loafers, buttoning his shirt. He gives the woman along, dark kiss, caressing her body. 
ELIAS Jacqueline, ho-ney... 
She laughs, closes the door. As he and Hull walk to the street, Elias sings happily to himself: 
ELIAS (continuing) "Who's making love to your old lady... while you're out make love...?" (cheerful) How come I like balling black chicks so much? 
Betty ignores him, does her lines. 
MCCUTCHEON (taunting Hull) Oooh... Cocaine, I love it and I hate it and I love it. The disease is the cure. 
She can't help looking at Hull who's looking at her. She and Elias are stoned; he's not. 
MCCUTCHEON (continuing) Don't look at me. Elias, tell him not to look at me. I don't like the fucker. 
But Elias is too busy vacuuming up Hull's leftovers. 
ELIAS (sniffling) John's an ascetic Negro; he wants to make sure you know he's not a jungle bunny. 
HULL Watch your mouth, David. 
ELIAS But he's got another side. You should seen him on the street the other day with these two USC kids. Do the spade bit for her, John. (black accent) I'm gonna mess you up, muthafugga... 
He sticks his finger in Hull's face just like Hull with the boys. 
HULL Don't call me a spade. And don't tell me to play black. 
He says it gently, but Betty hears the edge. 
ELIAS (hurt, disappointed) Come on, John, you do it so well. (falling into it) Ah ain't playin', muthafucka. Ah ain't playin'. 
Hull glares; Elias refuses to be intimidated. 
ELIAS (continuing) Don't fuckin' dis me, muthafucka. Fucka... fucka... fucka a... fucka b... fuck b-hive... fucka, fucka, fucka... 
Elias dances around repeating "fucka" until it's almost musical. 
Hull picks him up and slams into a wall. 
HULL Say it again, and I'll kill you. 
Elias throws Hull back against a display case. He's strong and unafraid. They're ready to fight. 
MCCUTCHEON Grow up, assholes! 
This half snaps them out of it. Still glowering, they slowly relax, release each other. 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Hull sits in the Trans Am eating a sandwich and watching the street as a DEALER leans in the window telling his sob story. There's an authority to Hull's manner that tells us he may not like this job, but he knows how to do it. 
DEALER ...The guy ripped me off, man, so I don't got the money, I don't got the stuff and -- 
HULL (eyes on street) You gotta pay anyway. 
DEALER Oh, but, man... 
As he raps on, comical pathos, Hull spots in his side mirror... 
THE RED RANGE ROVER 
coming slowly this way. Ivy in the passenger window, the barrel of an automatic weapon glinting in the streetlight. 
HULL Shit... 
Hull glances up: Bijoux is selling on the next corner. 
The Range Rover passes the Trans Am. Ivy leans out. 
Hull flings open the Trans Am door, throwing the Dealer to the ground. He jumps from the car: 
HULL (continuing) Bijoux!! 
She turns. Sees Ivy. She puts out her hands to block the shots. The SOUND of the gun is inaudible. The barrel bounces slightly. Bijoux sprawls backward. 
Bijoux: dead on the sidewalk, limbs askew, bleeding from many wounds. 
Hull, standing over her, covers her face. 
EXT. SAME - MUCH LATER THAT NIGHT 
The body has been taken away, the crowd has cleared. Elias sits on the hood of the Trans Am. Hull stands, staring down. 
ELIAS It wasn't your fault. (no response) What could you have done? 
INT. REAR OF CLUB - A SHORT HALLWAY - NIGHT 
leading toward the rear door they saw from the alley. 
MOVING DOWN THE HALL 
A woman's room. A men's room. Hull goes into... 
INT. MEN'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Ivy is pissing into a urinal. He's so huge he seems to take up all the space in the tiny room. Hull stares at him, unable to look away. 
He notices Hull. All dialogue is UNDER the POUNDING MUSIC. 
IVY What're you looking at? 
Hull stares at Ivy's face. Ivy considers this rude. 
IVY (continuing) You want to suck it, bitch? (offers his dick) Or drink it? 
Laughing, he turns, urinates on Hull's pants. Hull doesn't move. 
IVY (continuing; recognizing him) Oh, I know you. You're the bitch whose whore I wasted tonight, ain't you? 
Somebody pushes on the outside of the door. Hull holds it closed with his back. 
IVY (continuing) I gotta take care of you, too, huh? 
He reaches into his pants for the butt of a gun. 
Hull is frozen. 
Ivy starts to draw it out. 
Hull steps forward, grabs Ivy's gun arm. With his other hand he clumsily pulls a silenced .22 from inside his jacket, puts it in the underside of Ivy's jaw and SHOOTS twice. Ivy's brains spray upward onto the wall, and he slides straight to the floor. Hull steps out into... 
INT. SHORT HALL - NIGHT 
An Hispanic busboy coming out of the kitchen sees him and the gun in his hand, freezes. 
Hull walks past him and out the back door. From inside we see Hull go down three steps, stumble in the drive and fall to his knees, the gun CLATTERING away from him. 
A couple that had been making out, stops, looks. 
It takes Hull a moment to gather himself. He picks up the gun, gets into Elias's car. It drives away. 
INT. HULL'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Alone, he looks at his face in the mirror. As if he doesn't know the person there. 
With a knife, he draws out something hidden inside the wooden backing of the mirror. A manila envelope. He empties it onto the dresser: 
Mementos among which we see, carefully preserved, the blood- soaked bills his father gave him. Hull ignores them and picks up... 
PHOTO OF HIS CHILDREN 
He smooths out the folds, stares at it as if trying to fix this in his thoughts. 
EXT. MOTEL COURTYARD - PAY PHONE - DAY 
Hull on the phone. He's unusually excited, even moved. 
HULL ...Carmen, it's me. It's Daddy... 
INT. HULL'S HOUSE - CLEVELAND - DAY 
Carmen on the phone, jumping up and down with excitement. 
CARMEN Daddy!! 
HULL (V.O.) (through phone) Hi, baby. How are you? I miss you! 
CARMEN What? 
HULL (V.O.) I miss you... 
CARMEN (thrilled) I miss you, too, Daddy... 
HULL He supplies Barbosa. To get to him we'll have to take quantity. 
CARVER Then you've got to -- 
HULL That's what killing Ivy did. I'll get to him soon. 
Carver's impressed. 
HULL (continuing) Is that it? 
CARVER (seeing him to the door) I want you to get a new apartment. Something expensive. 
HULL I like where I am. 
CARVER That shithole? You're big time now. Act it. And get some clothes. Spend money. Have fun. That's an order. 
INT. HULL'S MOTEL - OFFICE - DAY 
Hull in a new, expensive suit, gives the big Blonde Woman cash. 
HULL Whether I'm here or not, no one else uses that room. And change the linen twice a week, just like now. (starts to go, stops, more money) And make sure James gets what he needs. And something for you. 
He adds another bill. She smiles. 
INT. A RENTED CONDOMINIUM - DAY 
Views, open space, expensive furnishings. Hull (in another fancy suit) is hanging a couple of Betty's masks. He's meticulous about their placement. 
Elias wanders out from the other rooms, looking around. 
ELIAS (impressed, envious) Nice place. Nice suit. 
Hull has a moment of self-consciousness about the suit, checks himself out in a mirror -- a private moment. 
Elias flops on a couch, puts his feet on an antique coffee table. 
HULL Hey...! 
He hurries over, lifts Elias feet to the floor. Hull brushes the wood, inspects it carefully, fusses, worries... Elias is amused. 
ELIAS You pick all this shit out yourself? 
HULL A Jewish lady in the store helped me. 
ELIAS (mock touched by racial harmony) Aw... Very nice. Understated. I'm impressed. 
Hull starts to place stacks of cash in a briefcase. He's momentarily mesmerized by all the money. 
HULL (to himself) Fifty bucks, fifty fucking bucks... 
ELIAS You sold it all? 
Hull nods. 
ELIAS (continuing) I'll order a couple more keys from Barbosa. 
HULL Order ten. 
ELIAS Ten?? 
HULL Better twenty. 
ELIAS (afraid of that) I don't want to push it. 
HULL I do. We've got a bigger territory, we need more product. I want to deal directly with Gallegos. It would save us money. 
ELIAS Barbosa'll never let us near him. 
Hull closes the briefcase, ushers Elias toward the door. He's going out, too. 
HULL If we buy twenty, Gallegos'll come to us himself. 
ELIAS How do you know? 
HULL When I bought a key from Eddie, you came to me. 
Elias laughs, surprised, afraid. 
INT. CLUB - NIGHT 
Kids dancing to a live STAGE ACT. High in a wall: a lit window. 
INT. THAT ROOM - NIGHT 
Very different from the club. A comfortable room with a bar, tables, filled with men much older than the dancers below. Barbosa and Gopher at the bar with Elias and Hull. Chino and other SHADOWY FIGURES lurk in the room's depths. 
BARBOSA Ten kilos? You're always late on two. 
HULL Not ten... twenty. 
Barbosa's impressed. 
HULL (continuing) The more we have, the more we can move. There're markets we can't open because we don't have the inventory. 
Barbosa's coked to the eyeballs, mean and dangerous. 
BARBOSA Finally some balls on this team... (taunting Elias) Come work for me, John. I'll give you your own franchise. You can supply Elias, lean on him when he's late. 
ELIAS Go fuck yourself. 
Barbosa laughs. 
HULL I'm with David. 
BARBOSA Why? He give you his "designer drugs" pitch. He's never going to do it. He's a shmuck. 
ELIAS Don't talk to me that way. 
BARBOSA I'm not talking to you at all. I'm talking to John. 
GOPHER It's the cocaine. Don't listen to him. Felix, you've had enough... 
BARBOSA Shmuck. 
Elias goes for him. He's fast and strong, and it takes Chino and Hull to pull him off. 
GOPHER Praise God they don't let guns in here. 
CALMING VOICES "None of that in here..." "Take it outside..." 
Barbosa's laughing, but his cheek is flecked with his own blood, and his eyes are dead. 
BARBOSA David, you've been working out, you're getting strong. Are you quick, too? (shadow boxes) Come on, I'll give you a shot at me. 
ELIAS Any time, any place. 
BARBOSA Right here, right now. Do this. 
He puts his hands out, palms up. 
ELIAS This? What is this? 
BARBOSA You know, you slap me, I slap you. (mimes that game) Come on, it's fun. Like summer camp. 
It doesn't look fun. Elias glances at Hull for guidance. 
HULL Don't waste your time. 
BARBOSA Stay out of this. (to Elias) Come on, you can do it, David, you're not a shmuck. 
Elias puts his hands out, palms up. Barbosa covers them with his own. ON THE HANDS: Barbosa's broad, muscular with thick gold rings and a Rolex; Elias's paler, slighter, a wedding band and a slim watch. 
BARBOSA (continuing) Slap my hands. Just slap them. 
Elias looks Barbosa in the eye. He's trying to be a snake, but he's more the mouse. He looks away and as he does tries to... 
Slap him with both hands but hits only... 
Air. The room breathes. Barbosa turns his rings so the big surfaces point down. 
BARBOSA (continuing) Now it's my turn. 
GOPHER It's Barbosa's turn. He's gonna kill the white boy. 
ELIAS One more. 
BARBOSA Shut up. 
INT. BOXING GYM - NIGHT 
Barbosa, Gopher with Hernandez, Taft's partner. Now we know Hernandez is corrupt: that's how they knew Eddie was talking. 
BARBOSA I got nothing to give you, my man. I'm an il-liquid son of a bitch. 
HERNANDEZ Felix, I keep telling them, "I have informants down there, I'm working guys, I can't say who..." If you don't have money, give me busts, or they're gonna start wondering about me. 
GOPHER They're already wondering. 
BARBOSA (deadpan) You can have Gopher. 
GOPHER Oh Gawd... 
BARBOSA How about a lawyer? 
GOPHER (knows who he means) Felix, don't do this. 
HERNANDEZ (he knows, too) Great, lawyers are great, Jewish is best. But I need spades, too. The politicians want dark facts to scare the suburbs so they'll vote Republican. 
BARBOSA Lawyers and spades; I got the trifecta: two dealers and a girl who does their wash. Two niggers and a kike; all Democrats. 
HERNANDEZ You're my man. And afterwards... 
Hernandez rubs thumb against fingers. 
BARBOSA When this is over, I'll send you to Hawaii, Maui. It's very beautiful in Maui, it's a very spiritual place. 
HERNANDEZ I just want money. 
And he's gone. 
GOPHER I wouldn't trust that man when he's out of rifle range. 
Barbosa looks tired. 
GOPHER (continuing; premonition of disaster) Don't do this, Felix. It'll go wrong. Kill Elias if you have to, honey, but don't set him up for this. It damages your prestige. 
Barbosa faces his cocaine. He tries to resist the pull, then yields. He does another line. It's his friend. He loves it. He picks up a cellular phone, dials. 
BARBOSA David, you're awake, I'm impressed... I'm sorry about what happened... Listen, I'll get you twenty boxes, like you wanted. You were right, you should have what you need... Tomorrow night... Bring your partner and that girl with the store, Betty... I need her advice on something. I want us to have fun, like we used to. We'll go to that shrimp place, okay?... Good... Me, too, David. (hangs up; does another line; drawing it deep into him) Yes! 
INT. CARVER'S OFFICE - BEFORE DAWN 
Hull jacked up, excited, pleased with himself. As he paces, Carver observes his beautiful suit, shoes, expensive watch. He looks much better than Carver. 
HULL We're getting twenty kilograms tomorrow. (notes the lightening sky) Tonight. I made it happen. I pushed Elias, now he doesn't make a move without me. 
CARVER You run Elias. 
HULL I control him. Barbosa's selling it to us because he thinks I can move it... (now the big news) And last night I met Ramon Gallegos. 
Carver sits up fast. Hull likes that. 
HULL (continuing) We're getting the dope from him; it's still coming through Barbosa, but Gallegos will approach me soon on his own. We're going to get him, Gerry. We're going to bring him and the whole thing down. 
Carver sits back, grimaces. 
HULL (continuing) What's your problem? 
CARVER (looking out window) My problem? My problem is that you don't really know what's happening. 
HULL (sardonic) Oh, so, tell me what's happening, Gerry. 
CARVER Barbosa is setting you up tonight. 
HULL Bullshit. 
CARVER He's dealing you to Taft and Hernandez. You're going to be taken down as you receive the drugs. They're putting together the arrest team right now. 
That rocks Hull. He is up, pacing. 
HULL What do we do? 
CARVER You stay away. We're going to take them down. 
Elias, energized by Hull's command, grabs Barbosa and throws him toward the limo. 
HERNANDEZ'S POV THROUGH NIGHT SCOPE 
TAFT We have a problem. 
HERNANDEZ Shit! Shit! Shit! (aiming rifle; Hull in sights) Enough of this... 
TAFT No! 
EXT. TWO CARS - NIGHT 
Hull shepherding everyone into the limo. He glances toward the van. On instinct. He pulls Chino to him. 
A RIFLE SHOT 
Chino's head explodes. Betty screams. 
BARBOSA (screaming at van) Don't shoot... Don't shoot... 
INT. VAN - NIGHT 
Taft hurling Hernandez against the wall. 
TAFT Goddam it, what the hell are you doing? 
EXT. TWO CARS - NIGHT 
SIRENS. GUNFIRE. Elias drags Barbosa into the limo. Hull throws Betty into the front seat. The limo takes off. 
EXT. STREET/INT. LIMO - DRIVING - NIGHT 
Hull driving, Betty up front. Elias with a gun on Barbosa in back. Hull slaloms the limo through police GUNFIRE. Windows are blown out. Glass everywhere. 
MCCUTCHEON (weeping) I asked for this... I asked for it... It's my fault... 
HULL (calm, eyes on road) Relax. We'll make it. 
She looks at him, stunned yet soothed by his certainty. 
BARBOSA He's a cop. He has to be. How else would he have known? 
HULL If I was cop, you'd be face down back there. 
MCCUTCHEON How did you know? 
HULL The whole thing smelled. Changing his mind about the stuff. Meeting us way out here. And I'd seen cops in that van before. Hernandez is dirty, that's who he's using. 
ELIAS (to Barbosa) Get out of the car. 
He starts to open the door. 
HULL David, not now. 
ELIAS Yes, now! 
INT. TAFT AND HERNANDEZ'S CAR - NIGHT 
Racing. Taft at wheel, raging at Hernandez. 
TAFT Who are you, man? Who the fuck are you? 
HERNANDEZ (stonewalling) I'm me. 
INT. LIMO - DRIVING - NIGHT 
ELIAS He traded us to the cops. Just like Eddie. Eddie, who was nice to my daughter, had to die because that's the rule. And you were vulgar about my wife, Felix, so at the very least the same rule applies to you. 
BARBOSA I'll give you money. I'll give you a million. Anything you want. 
ELIAS I want you to get out of the car. Get out of the fucking car. Out of the fucking -- 
MCCUTCHEON (near tears) No, no... we can't do this. 
HULL (turning around from front seat) Stop it, David, or we're... 
Elias wheels on him, sticks the gun in his face: 
Hull looks at her. 
MCCUTCHEON (continuing) Stop it! 
He brakes to a stop. She jumps out, leans back in. 
MCCUTCHEON (continuing) No more laundering, no more anything. I'm finished with this. 
And she disappears into the night. Elias watches her go. Hull resumes driving. 
ELIAS She knows too much. We have to kill her. 
HULL No! She's with me. She's not going to talk. (looks at Elias) You touch her, I'll kill you. 
ELIAS She's your responsibility then. 
Hull accepts it. 
ELIAS (continuing) We're going to get the money now, John. Enough for the new drug. We're going to be rich. We're going to be so rich that we're going to leave the world of ordinary people and going to a higher realm. I mean that. 
HULL They're going to come after us. 
ELIAS (matter-of-fact) It's a hardball game. We're hardball players. 
EXT. COMMERCIAL STREET - EAST L.A. - NIGHT 
Hernandez comes out of a bodega with groceries, wine and a woman. He nuzzles her as he lets her into his car. As he's getting behind the wheel, Molto (Gallegos' guard) stops the door from closing. The conversation is entirely in SPANISH. 
HERNANDEZ It wasn't my fault. 
MOLTO It never is. 
He SHOOTS him in the head. Hernandez slumps against the wheel. The woman screams. Molto walks away. 
EXT. AN APARTMENT COMPLEX/INT. BETTY'S APARTMENT - DAWN 
Hull finds a door, pushes the buzzer. Betty looks through the glass. She's afraid of him. 
MCCUTCHEON Don't kill me. I'm not going to talk. I swear. Please. 
Then she looks closer and sees not murder in his face, but need. She opens the door. Without a word, he gathers her to him. She can't resist him now. Her mouth is everywhere on him. 
INT. HER BEDROOM - DAWN 
Betty gasping in the wake of pleasure, turning her face away from him, she feels so exposed. 
MCCUTCHEON Don't look... 
She hides her face in his neck. 
INT. SAME - LATER 
They lie in each other's arms, relaxed together for the first time. A wonderful, unprotected openness. 
HULL (softly) Tell me about you. 
MCCUTCHEON (half-kidding) Everything worth knowing you just found you. 
He laughs. They begin to make love again. Suddenly: AN EXTRA HAND stroking Betty's hair. She gasps. A gun in Hull's ear. Another in her face. Guns all around. 
HULL Don't hurt her. 
Hands pull him out of bed, leave her there alone. We see Molto, two or three others. 
EXT. A CEMETERY - MORNING 
RAMON GALLEGOS lays a bouquet of white lillies on a grave. He kneels, whispers a prayer, crosses himself. 
He rises and walks to where Molto and the other guards hold Hull and Elias. Gallegos is in his thirties, more European than Barbosa. He has a distinctly mild manner. 
ELIAS Who's grave? 
An impudent question, but Elias seems strangely bright-eyed despite the guns held on him. 
GALLEGOS My wife's. She died of leukemia three years ago. (looks around) I like to be among the dead. They never interrupt you. (turning to them) Felix Barbosa started out as a skinny fourteen-year-old fucking Yankee businessman in Bogata hotels. He grew up. He made himself strong and rich, but getting there made him sick, and that killed him. So he lost everything for the same reason he'd gotten it in the first place. Now we'll see if you can do as well. 
A PRIEST going by greets Gallegos who responds warmly. They chat a minute in SPANISH. The Priest leaves. 
HULL David, we've got thirty-six hours. 
ELIAS (slams trunk, moves toward door) Pick me up at Jacqueline's in the morning. 
HULL Sooner than that. 
Elias gets in the car and drives off. Hull turns and a dark American sedan pulls up alongside. Carver behind the wheel. 
CARVER (an order) Get in. 
INT. CAR - NIGHT 
HULL (as he gets in) What are you doing here? You're going to get me killed. 
Carver peels away fast. He's very angry, frightened, too, but that's hidden. 
CARVER Where the hell have you been? 
HULL Doing my job. 
There's an indifference to Carver's authority we haven't heard before. Hull isn't even aware of it, but Carver is. 
CARVER You violated a direct order to stay away from that bust. As a result, a police informant is dead, a state senator was critically injured in the tunnel pile up and a city policeman was subsequently murdered. 
HULL I didn't blow my cover. 
CARVER Don't get smart with me, motherfucker. 
HULL Don't be a shmuck, Gerry. I'm talking to Gallegos. I'm collecting his money. We can set him up right now. (NOTE: Carver arrives somewhere and parks. To be discussed, but let's say, for now, that we are:) 
EXT. SANTA MONICA PARKING STRUCTURE - OVERLOOKING OCEAN - NIGHT 
They get out of the car. Carver takes out a flask, has a drink, offers it to Hull who declines. 
CARVER Never have, never will. (puts the flask away) I want you to give me your gun. You're coming in right now. 
HULL (doesn't understand) Coming in where? 
CARVER Your assignment has been terminated. You're not going out there again. If I have to, I'll put you in custody. 
HULL (uncomprehending) I'm going to have Gallegos in two days. 
Carver says nothing. Suddenly Hull understands. 
HULL (continuing) You're protecting him. You're protecting Gallegos. 
Carver snorts: ridiculous. 
HULL (continuing) No, of course. That's why you wanted to bust Elias and Betty. I was getting close, and you wanted to cut this off then... What is he, the new Noriega? Helps you fight commies, so you let him sell drugs to the niggers. Two birds with one stone. 
CARVER You violated orders, so you're through. Don't make a conspiracy theory out of it. 
HULL (laughs) I'm through...? Then, I might as well have a drink after all. 
Surprised, Carver reaches for the flask. As he does, Hull grabs him, pushes him out over the edge of the building, holds him there. 
HULL (continuing) Now tell me the truth or they're going to decide your troubles got the best of you. 
Carver struggles. Hull pushes him out farther. Carver dangles. 
CARVER You're insane. 
HULL All the more reason to do what I say. Jesus, Ger, I'm having trouble holding on... 
CARVER All right! 
HULL Say it! 
CARVER It's the State Department. 
Hull pulls him back in. Carver slumps against the wall, drinks greedily. Hull lets him for a moment, then takes the flask away. 
CARVER (continuing) I told you, Gallegos's uncle is a big deal down there. 
HULL Guzman. 
CARVER Guzman, right. Our government supports Guzman because he's a moderate. That's a right-winger who's pro-U.S. (he doesn't like it either) If Gallegos got busted here, it would hurt Guzman's political career there. It's politics, John, not drugs. 
MCCUTCHEON Of course, you can. 
HULL (almost angry) No! This is what I'm supposed to do. 
MCCUTCHEON Supposed to? Who said you're supposed to? 
HULL The whole fuckin' world. You think I didn't try something else? But everything funnels you right back here. Like it's where you had to go all along. 
MCCUTCHEON But you know what you're doing, don't you, selling this stuff? Doing to our own. 
HULL If I tried to get out now, they'd kill me. 
MCCUTCHEON (tortured) I can't be with somebody's who involved in drugs. 
He nods. He knows. He's even happy about it. But she won't yield. Finally he gets up and walks back out the door. 
EXT. GOPHER'S BUILDING - 4 A.M. 
The neighborhood is reminiscent of the one where Joe Stevens Sr. was killed. The rap club still pumps MUSIC onto the 4 A.M. streets where whores, junkies, children, teenagers with beepers and Nikes, welfare mothers roam as if it were daytime anywhere else. Their eyes, yearning, sullen, vital, hopeless and hoping stare at... 
HULL 
Everyone knows what he is: the Black Man with the Big Car. They don't remember when he was just another hustler making street buys. Now they hate him, revere him, want to be him, not caring what it entails. Every eye follows as... 
He and Elias cross the street toward Gopher's door. Hull's eyes don't go right or left. He's a driven man now. 
INT. GOPHER'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Gopher has just been roused from sleep. A light in his face, Hull and Elias looming over him. 
HULL There've got to be more. We have a million two, we owe Gallegos one eight. 
GOPHER I told you everyone. Everyone who owed him, everyone he... One eight? He's lying. Barbosa barely owed him a million. 
Hull and Elias look at each other. 
INT. BETTY'S STORE - MORNING 
Taft is showing her photocopies of phone bills, bank transactions, invoices. She's obviously upset. 
TAFT I got every money transfer, every phone call, all your laundry tickets. 
MCCUTCHEON (miserable) What do you want? 
TAFT John Hull. 
MCCUTCHEON I can't! 
TAFT Or you'll go away 'til you're a dried up old woman, and when you come out, ain't nobody gonna want you. 
She covers her face. 
EXT. EAST L.A. STREET/INT. CAR - DAY 
Elias driving a car we haven't seen before and snickering to himself at some private joke. 
HULL What are you laughing at? 
Elias shakes his head: nothing. He laughs. They pull into the lot beside a movie theater. 
INT. THEATER - DAY 
A Technicolor Spanish melodrama is winding to its lurid end. A door in back opens, and a burst of daylight reveals Hull and Elias being brought in by a guard and met by Molto. 
Molto and the guard frisk them, take their guns and money satchels, make them wait a moment until... 
The movie ends. 
The house lights come on revealing Ramon Gallegos as the only spectator in the theater. He beckons. Molto and the guard bring Hull and Elias down the aisle to him. 
Gallegos looking in the satchels. A tense moment. 
HULL It isn't one eight. (off Gallegos) It's a million one. That's all Barbosa owed, it's all we're paying. 
Gallegos is stern for a moment, then laughs. 
GALLEGOS Big brass balls. Collecting money makes you strong. 
SAME - LATER 
Molto tied to a tree. Elias is giving him instructions while, strangely, removing Molto's shoes and socks. 
ELIAS (to Molto) Disce a Senor Guzman que... (his Spanish isn't good enough) ...that we have his money, and we're willing to talk as soon as he comes to town. We'll know how to reach him. Okay? 
Molto just glares at him. Elias smiles, takes the shoes and socks and all the contents of Molto's into the Winnebago, and he and Hull drive away, leaving the car behind. 
EXT./INT. A PARKING GARAGE/INT. WINNEBAGO - EVENING 
The Winnebago enters the garage, Elias greeting the attendant, "Hey, Frank." Frank waves him in. 
The garage is filled with various RVs. Hull pulls the Winnebago into an empty spot beside Elias's car and gets out. Elias remains in the cabin making calculations. 
ELIAS Approximating the cubic capacity and depending on the denominations of the bills, it's somewhere between fifty million and two hundred million dollars. Right back there. 
As he does, Hull checks his gun, walks around behind the vehicle and prepares to shoot Elias in the back of the head through the open window. Elias finishes his money report, and sits there as if unaware of Hull, but: 
ELIAS (continuing; not turning around) Think I'm crazy? 
HULL Yes. (blowing up, gun still on him) I can't believe you got us into this. All of fucking Latin America is going to be after our asses, including Renaldo Guzman who's friends with fucking George Bush. 
ELIAS I know they're coming after us. I want them to. We'll give them the money, but we'll make a deal for ourselves. We'll get what we need for the synthetic drugs. I've thought it all out. I've been thinking it out for years. 
Hull uncocks the gun, rubs it against his burning face. Elias turns around, embraces him. 
ELIAS (continuing) We're going to have everything. Don't you want everything, John? 
HULL They're going to get your family, David. They'll kill your wife and daughter. 
ELIAS (serene) Nancy and Miranda left the country two days ago. 
HULL You knew about this then? 
Elias smiles. 
HULL (continuing) What about Betty? 
EXT. BETTY'S JEWELRY SHOP - EVENING 
A car SQUEALS to a stop. Molto and three thugs smash through the glass door. They disappear into the store where things can be heard BREAKING. They emerge a moment later, jump into the car. 
EXT. SYNAGOGUE - EVENING 
Hull's car races up. He jumps out, dashes toward the building. 
INT. SYNAGOGUE SOCIAL HALL - EVENING 
Forty PEOPLE on folding chairs. Hull enters on a dead run. He stops short when he sees: 
BETTY 
at the front. He signals to her, but she's already saying: 
MCCUTCHEON Hi, my name is Betty. 
EVERYONE IN THE ROOM Hi, Betty! 
MCCUTCHEON My name is Betty, I'm a drug addict. And I've been clean for nineteen days. 
The room bursts into APPLAUSE. She sees Hull at the back; he signals to her, but she goes on. 
MCCUTCHEON (continuing) I've been using drugs and selling them, and I've wanted to stop for a long time, and the only way I did was because I met a man I loved and who loved me. I know that's not what I'm supposed to say. I'm supposed to say there was a higher power, and maybe there was, behind it all, but this man is strong and his love made me strong enough that I could start, or at least think about a life that didn't have drugs in it... 
She's looking right at Hull as she speaks. He's torn between the danger he knows she's in and his emotion at what she's saying. 
EXT. SYNAGOGUE - EVENING 
Hull hurrying Betty toward his car. She's protesting. 
MCCUTCHEON I've got to get clothes. 
HULL You can't go back. 
INT. HULL'S CONDO - EVENING 
Molto and men pouring through it. In frustration, Molto smashes the table Hull had fussed over when Elias put his feet up. 
