DETROIT ROCK CITY 
Written by 
Carl V Dupre 
FADE IN: 
INT. MRS. BRUCE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Decorated in Carol Brady chic. When it's not gaudy, tacky, and loud, it's blander than toast. Colors like lime green and sunshine orange should be reserved for popsicles only. 
MRS. BRUCE, late 30's, enters looking exhausted. She carries a glass of wine in one hand and a book in the other, Erma Bombeck's The Grass Is Always Greener Over The Septic Tank. 
HUMMING "We've Only Just Begun," Mrs. Bruce crouches next to her wildly-ancient entertainment center complete with 8-track. She flips the first record forward on her Ronco Record Mate. Album after album flaps forward. Olivia Newton-John, Neil Diamond, the Osmond Brothers. She stops on the Carpenters and sighs at the serene cover art. Just what the doctor ordered. 
Placing the vinyl on the turntable, she CLICKS the dustcover closed and FLICKS "Play." Reclining in her Lazyboy, she sips her wine, opens the book and awaits the mellow tones of Karen Carpenter. 
Suddenly, her eardrums are hammered by machine gun GUITAR. Caustic ROCK 'N' ROLL assaults her senses. She jumps, spilling her wine all over herself. This isn't the Carpenters... 
IT'S KISS! 
Racing to the entertainment center, she turns the volume control knob so violently, it comes off in her hand. The music is even louder now. 
Flustered by the awful noise, she tries lifting the dustcover. It's stuck. She screams and covers her ears. This is Hell. Running to the rear of the huge console, she stretches to reach the plug, but can't. Fingertips millimeters away. 
As the cacophony POUNDS she shakes the entire stereo with all her frantic might. 
SCREEEEEECH! The needle scrapes across the vinyl with a shrill, finally coming to a stop. Whew, silence! 
Then, POP, the dustcover opens unceremoniously. Shaken, she grabs the record with trembling hands and reads the label... 
KISS - LOVE GUN, SIDE TWO 
Mrs. Bruce's blood boils. 
MRS. BRUCE KISS! The devil's music! 
EXT. LEX'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
A small, two-story house amid a suburban neighborhood of other two-story houses. Uninspired architecture. Spindly trees. 
Two-car garage. 
A faint yellow glow emanates from a cellar window across which shadows frantically dart. Over the CRICKETS, we hear MUFFLED, BADLY-RENDERED ROCK 'N' ROLL. SCRATCHY, GUTTURAL, inhuman. 
CAMERA MOVES to the cellar window. Inside we see four TEENAGE BOYS who are to blame for the racket. Band practice. 
INT. LEX'S BASEMENT/BEDROOM - NIGHT 
An inner-sanctum of KISS devotion. Faux-wood paneling is plastered with countless KISS posters, pictures, fold-outs. The ceiling is wallpapered with more KISS posters. KISS dolls, magazines, records, comic books clutter the shag-carpeted floor. Fast food wrappers heap over the KISS garbage pail. 
The four high schoolers rock their hearts out as they blast a familiar tune offensively off-key. 
BOYS SINGING "I wanna rock 'n' roll all night and party every day!" 
They stink, but they sure are trying hard. Meet the band "Mystery." Concert tee-shirts, holey jeans, total burn-outs. 
HAWK, a scraggily-haired, disenchanted youth, strains his vocal chords on the microphone as he SCRATCHES at his rhythm guitar. Hawk is sort of the brains of this operation, but knowing the others, that doesn't say much. 
LEX POUNDS a bass with earnest determination. Lanky with bad posture, Lex is already sporting worry lines. He takes everything way-too-seriously. 
TRIP STRUMS lead guitar like he's hammering nails. All id, Trip is slightly out of his mind. But, is it the chemicals or just his chemistry. He always wears a knit cap. 
JAM, a sensitive kid (but no wuss), BASHES on his drums like a madman making the bass drum pulsate like a spastic heart. The big drum bears the word "Mystery" painted on its skin with a lightning "S" just like the KISS logo. 
They bring the classic tune to a shrieking conclusion and thrust their hands over their heads in the KISS symbol. Hawk screams into the mike at their imaginary audience. 
HAWK Thank you, Cleveland! You're a great crowd. But after three and a half hours of kick-ass rock and seven encores on top of that, I'm sorry to say that this time we really gotta get back to our hotel rooms and fuck some groupies. 
Behind him, Trip grabs Lex's bass and swings it by the neck at an amp pretending to bash it over and over again. Lex quickly yanks it away from him. 
LEX What the fuck, Trip? That's my bass! 
Jam emerges from behind the pile of drums smiling. 
JAM That was curly! 
TRIP Just one more day of school to get through, girls, before tomorrow night... Live! (getting excited) COBO Hall! Detroit, Michigan! (like an announcer) You wanted the best! 
Hawk is on the phone as Lex and Trip scour every inch of the cluttered room on their hands and knees searching frantically for something. 
HAWK Jam, listen up. 
JAM (O.S.) Hawk? 
HAWK Just listen up, man, cause we are in a quandary. 
INT. JAM'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Jam clutches the phone with his shoulder GRUNTING as he does battle with the Bullworker for possession of his foot. 
HAWK (O.S.) Are you on the crapper with one of those antenna phones? Sounds like you're taking a dump the size of Butte, Montana. 
JAM It's my Bullworker. 
HAWK (O.S.) Anyway, listen up. They're gone! 
JAM What's gone? 
HAWK (O.S.) The KISS tickets, you nimrod! They're just fuckin' gone! Please tell me you have'm! 
JAM (panicked) Gone!? Why would I have the KISS tick...? 
HAWK (O.S.) Just check whatever you were wearing last night. Now! 
Jam briefly scans his surroundings double-taking at the denim jacket lying on the floor. He checks the pockets and sees four tickets labelled KISS - JUNE 7, 1978 - COBO HALL, DETROIT. 
JAM Whew! Oh, God, Hawk... I got'm! Somehow I musta taken Trip's jacket by mistake! 
INT. LEX'S BASEMENT/BEDROOM - DAY 
Hawk SIGHS like a deathrow convict pardoned at the last second. 
HAWK (to others) He's got'm! 
Lex and Trip collapse with relief. 
HAWK Trip, he took your jacket by mistake. You must be wearing Jam's. 
Trip reaches in a breast pocket and pulls out Rosary beads. Spooked, he drops them like they were a bug. 
HAWK (into phone) Cool. 
JAM (O.S.) I'm really sorry about that, man. 
HAWK Don't be a fembot. So, are you like grounded because of last night, or what? 
INT. JAM'S ROOM - DAY 
JAM Of course, but has that ever stopped me before? Besides, my mom's going to some church meeting and won't be back till late. No sweat... See you guys in school. 
CLICK. DIAL TONE. Jam hangs up. 
INT. LEX'S BASEMENT/BEDROOM - DAY 
Lex buckles his belt with its huge KISS belt buckle. 
LEX Poor, Jam, man. Imagine having to stash your KISS records inside Carly Simon album covers. No question, Mrs. Bruce is a psycho-bitch from hell. 
TRIP You're one to talk, Lex. Your mom's a fuckin' dyke. 
Trip pockets his wallet which is affixed to a long chain attached to a side belt loop. 
LEX Trip, a female gynecologist does not a lesbian make. And even if it did, at least my mom didn't give birth to me while she was on LSD. 
TRIP Shrooms! And even if it was LSD, I can still give my mom a kiss without smelling the catch of the day. 
HAWK Both you assholes, SHADDAP! 
Lex and Trip shaddap. 
HAWK Enough of the mom-bashing, all right? Lex's mom is cool about us crashing over here while she's out of town. And if it weren't for Trip's mom, we wouldn'ta smoked that fine Panama Red last night. So leave the women who gave you life out of it. They're both cool. 
Trip and Lex cease and desist the mom-bashing and continue getting ready for school. Suddenly, Lex pushes Trip angrily. 
LEX Trip, you fuckin' asshole. 
TRIP What? 
TRIP Hey, that dork looks just like Jam. 
Hawk and Lex look and laugh when they see him. 
LEX Shit, that dork is Jam. 
HAWK (to Jam) YO, DOOFUS! 
Jam gives them the finger. 
INT. SCHOOL LOCKER AREA - DAY 
Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam grab books from their lockers. KISS stickers, photos, and rock magazine cut-outs line the insides. Jam's locker door is covered with Peter Criss only. 
TRIP So, Jam, who did your wardrobe, Tad the preppie sailboat captain? 
JAM Hey, my mom had me over a barrel, all right. After last night, I had to let her dress me today. It's a give and take relationship. 
LEX Yeah, she gives you shit and you take it. 
HAWK Okay, enough. Enough. Gimme the tickets. I wanna hold onto them. 
JAM They're still at my house in Trip's jacket. 
HAWK They're what? 
JAM She was standing right over me when I was changing for fuck's sake. 
TRIP That's some sick shit right there. Did she comb your ass hair for you too? 
LEX If your mom so much as smells those tickets, they're history, and we get screwed outta seeing KISS for the third year in a row, the third year! 
JAM Don't worry about it. They're perfectly safe. We can pick them up after school. My mom won't be home. It's no problem. 
HAWK All right. After school we double- time it to your house for the tix before heading to the train station for the 2:45 to Detroit Rock City. 
JAM Check. 
The BELL RINGS. 
HAWK As they say in the Tampon biz, see you next period. 
SLAM! They shut their lockers in unison. 
INT. STUDY HALL - DAY 
The STUDY HALL TEACHER grades papers. On the wall a picture of President Carter hangs next to Old Glory. The words "Be Quiet" are written on the blackboard. 
Students study, read, doodle, sleep. Jam is at his desk touching up the word "Mystery" on his drumstick. Next to him sits BETH. Quirky, but cute, she stares longingly at him wanting to say something, but not having the guts. 
Pleased with his work, Jam puts the drumsticks on the desk and opens a Peter Criss album cover notebook depicting countless doodles of the KISS logo, the Mystery logo, and renderings of Peter Criss. 
Beth SIGHS and opens her own notebook. Drawings of hearts fill the pages. In them is written "Beth + Jeremiah" and "I love Jeremiah." 
Then, one of Jam's drumsticks rolls off the desk and onto the floor. Beth quickly reaches down to grab it for him just as he bends to get it too. THUD, they bash heads. 
JAM Oof! (whispering) Sorry. 
Rubbing her head, she smiles and hands him the drumstick. 
BETH No problem. 
JAM Thanks. 
He stuffs his drumsticks in his socks pulling his pantlegs down. Jam and Beth stare at each other. There's a mutual crush, but both are apprehensive about making the first move. Both want to speak, neither does. They awkwardly go back to their notebooks. 
Mustering the nerve, Jam breaks the ice and whispers... 
JAM Beth? 
Beth spins too quickly. Her pen flies out of her hand. 
BETH Yes? 
BOINK! The pen hits Jam in the eye. 
JAM Ow! 
Feeling awful, Beth moves in to help. The teacher looks up sternly. 
JAM You mean, you're sending me to... b- b-boarding school? 
MRS. BRUCE What else can I do? Oh, records and magazines and comic books are one thing, but tickets? TICKETS? Jeremiah, do you realize what this means? That you're no longer content merely hearing their awful songs or looking at photos of their horrific faces! Now you want to see the devil in the flesh. You want to reach out and touch pure evil... and in Detroit no less! 
She flicks the lighter, not yet lighting the cigarette. 
JAM Mom, three of those tickets don't even belong to me. They're for the guys. 
Mrs. Bruce holds the tickets over the lighter's flame. 
MRS. BRUCE And if the "guys" have parents who truly love them, they will elevate me to sainthood for getting rid of these blasted things. 
Mrs. Bruce lights her smoke with the flaming tickets, then drops them in the ashtray where they burn for a cruel eternity. Jam stares semi-catatonic through his mom's sour expression. 
MRS. BRUCE It's been a long time coming, son, but you're finally going to get the kind of discipline you deserve. 
She stands and pulls him out the front entrance by his arm. 
REVERSE ANGLE ON NEARBY CORNER 
Hawk, Trip, and Lex peek around it, their heads forming a totem pole. One-by-one they pull back. 
AROUND THE CORNER 
They slump against the wall devastated. 
LEX I knew it! I knew this was gonna happen! I had a bad feeling since last night. Remember? We are so totally fucked! 
TRIP Waitaminit, dudes! I got it! Maybe we can glue the tickets back together! 
HAWK What are you, high? 
TRIP Yeah. 
HAWK For once Lex is right. It's over. Things can't get any worse from here. 
Suddenly, a caustic voice BLURTS from down the hall. 
VOICE I hope you rodents have hall passes! 
The boys whip their heads around to see a potbellied, yellow- toothed, security officer with long sideburns and slicked back hair at the far end of the hall, fists on his hips. Meet ELVIS. 
LEX Wanna bet. 
ELVIS Could that be three detentions I smell? 
Elvis laughs and breaks into a run barreling down on them like a maniac. Keys JANGLING furiously. 
HAWK Second floor girls' john! Two minutes! He'll never look there! 
LEX Check! 
They take off in three different directions. Still laughing, Elvis stops where the boys just were. Which one to follow? He bolts after Hawk who has taken the nearest staircase. 
INT./EXT. JAM'S STUDY HALL - DAY 
Beth looks sadly out the window watching Mrs. Bruce push Jam in the car. Beth puts her hand on the pane wanting to touch him. 
INT. STAIRWAY - DAY 
Meanwhile, Elvis HUFFS and PUFFS up a flight of stairs arriving at a set of swinging doors. He goes to push one in, but it swings out at him with a vengeance knocking him backward. 
From behind it pops Hawk wielding a fire extinguisher. BLAST! A hail of foam covers Elvis's face. Hawk shoves the extinguisher into the man's arms and pushes Elvis backwards down the stairs. He topples ass-over-head till he hits the landing. 
HAWK You're way out of your league, Elvis. 
Elvis rises and shakes the CO2 off like a wet dog. Looking up, he sees the door gently swinging in and out. No sign of Hawk. 
INT. GIRLS' BATHROOM - DAY 
Trip kicks a bathroom stall violently. 
TRIP Fuck! Shit! 
Lex sits on the toilet in the stall. 
LEX Hey, take it easy, man. This is the girls' crapper, remember? 
TRIP Wake up, Lex! We just watched Jam's mom torch our fuckin' KISS tickets! Not REO Speedwagon! Not Journey! Not the Bay City Rollers! KISS! If you can think of a better reason to trash a bathroom, I'd sure like to hear it! 
Hawk scopes out the cafeteria to make sure the coast is clear. 
HAWK Ok, dudes, follow my lead. 
LEX Wait a minute. We ditching the rest of school? 
TRIP About fuckin' time if you ask me. I'm just going through the motions till I drop out anyway. 
LEX Hello summer detention. 
HAWK As I was saying, follow my lead. And maintain. Elvis just showed up. 
Hawk points across the cafeteria and sure enough Elvis has just entered. Luckily, he hasn't noticed the boys yet. 
Elvis swaggers to a table of CHEERLEADERS, puts his leg on a chair and starts a one-sided conversation with them. They promptly push their trays away, having lost their appetites. 
Meanwhile, back at the condiment tray, Hawk and Trip each grab a big handful of ketchup packets and head to a table. Lex reluctantly follows suit grabbing a big handful of ketchup packets too. All three of them put their trays down and sit. 
HAWK (eyeing Elvis) Five second rule, boys. See you on the other side. 
Hawk approaches the exit door, glances either way, then leaves. 
Trip and Lex look at their watches for five seconds. Then Trip heads for the exit door also. 
Lex still stares at his watch. After five, he looks at Elvis, who stops talking to the cheerleaders. As if possessing some sixth sense, Elvis turns quickly and looks STRAIGHT INTO CAMERA. 
ELVIS'S POV -- He spots the swinging exit door and an empty table with three full lunch trays sitting on it. 
ELVIS Excuse me, ladies. 
Relieved he's gone, the cheerleaders start eating again. 
Elvis moves through the cafeteria in SLOW MOTION toward the exit door. The hunter in action. 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY 
Elvis pushes through the door and into a hall, dead-eye stare focused up ahead where the hallway turns sharply. He catches a glimpse of Lex. Smiling like the devil, Elvis bolts. 
INT. OTHER HALLWAY - DAY 
Lex catches up with Hawk and Trip just as Elvis swings around the corner and marauds after them CACKLING maniacally. A mad chase ensues. Down hallways. Around corners. Upstairs. Down ramps. 
Hawk, Trip, and Lex scramble as fast as they can to escape the clutches of their sideburn-clad nemesis. 
As the boys pass a classroom, a NERD comes out pushing a projector on an AV cart. Thinking fast, Hawk grabs it out of the nerd's hands and pushes it down the hall at Elvis. 
NERD Hey, I'm responsible for that! 
CRASH! Elvis bashes face-first into the rolling cart. He and the projector go tumbling. Not wasting a second, Elvis is back on his feet and after them again. The nerd grabs his hair in horror at the sight of the smashed projector. 
AROUND A CORNER 
Elvis SKIDS around the corner and trips on a fire hose stretched across the floor from its glass box to a water fountain pipe. He slides on his belly along the polished floor unable to stop. 
INT. ENGLISH CLASS - DAY 
Old MISS HIBBS is lecturing on MOBY DICK. The kids are dozing. 
MISS HIBBS Then a cry from the crow's nest... "Thar she blows!" 
Suddenly, a screaming Elvis slides into the open door on his stomach and bowls Miss Hibbs over like a Brunswick. He clamors to his feet and shoots out the room leaving everyone stunned. 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY 
Pausing at the corner, Elvis takes a breath and leaps around it. He smiles at what he sees. 
Up ahead, Hawk, Lex, and Trip stand on a 3-stair stoop, desperately pulling at a locked door. Elvis smiles. They GULP. 
ELVIS KISS concert? Kiss my ass morelike. A nice, fat detention oughta put a crimp in this evening's plans. 
Elvis takes his key ring off his belt and begins twirling it. The boys turn and face him. He savors the moment. 
ELVIS Looking for something, rodents? 
HAWK Yeah, Elvis... 
Hawk's brow furrows as he pulls about fifty ketchup packets out of his pocket. Trip and Lex do the same. 
HAWK ..Your ass on a lunch tray. 
They hear an ENGINE and turn to see a delivery truck labelled PIZZA PIG parking behind them. A DELIVERY BOY holding a pizza box steps out. Trip's mouth waters. 
TRIP (licking his chops) Mmm, pizza... 
Seeing the boys, the delivery boy stops at the Volvo. 
DELIVERY BOY Hey, you guys know where... (looks at slip on box) Philip McNutly's office is? 
Hawk, Trip, and Lex exchange an anxious glance, then Hawk smiles. He is officially inspired as he turns to the boy. 
HAWK Yeah, I'm Philip McNutly. 
INT. FATHER MCNULTY'S OFFICE - DAY 
The Father TAPS his pencil looking impatiently at Jam who has totally withdrawn. He sits motionless staring into space. 
FATHER MCNULTY Jeremiah, are you aware you need to answer these questions, not just listen to them? Jeremiah? 
Jam doesn't respond. 
FATHER MCNULTY Please don't become difficult this early in your stay. I hate disciplining boys before I get to know them. 
A NUN enters KNOCKING. 
NUN Forgive me, Father. A young man here with a pizza for you? 
FATHER MCNULTY Ah, yes! Send him in Sister Conimaria. 
The nun exits and a second later Hawk enters wearing Lex's baseball cap pulled down over his eyes. 
FATHER MCNULTY Well, what's the damage, pizza fellow? 
HAWK Ten even. 
The priest swivels his chair around and unlocks a box labelled "Donations." While he looks for cash, Hawk gives Jam a discreet kick in the shin. Jam looks up and recognizes Hawk. He then looks out the window seeing Trip, Lex, and the Volvo below. 
For the first time we see what Jam looks like with a big, fat, shit-eating grin on his face. 
HAWK (whispering to Jam) If he offers you a slice, you're not the least bit hungry, check? 
JAM (whispering) Check. 
Father McNulty swivels back around with a ten. 
FATHER MCNULTY Here's ten and I'm donating your tip to the church. The Lord thanks you. 
HAWK Tell the Big Guy not to mention it. 
Hawk takes the ten, tips the brim of the baseball cap and leaves, giving Jam a cautious wink as he goes. 
FATHER MCNULTY And not a moment too soon. I'm famished. I hope you brought a lunch for yourself. 
JAM No, but I'm not hungry anyway. 
Father McNulty raises his eyebrows, then opens the pizza box. 
FATHER MCNULTY Well! It finally speaks. There's one barrier we've broken through. 
Father McNulty smiles, taking a big bite. Jam smiles for an entirely different reason. The priest mumbles with a mouthful. 
FATHER MCNULTY You know, your coming here reminds me of a gospel called The Prodigal Son. 
Jam grins a bit feigning interest. 
FATHER MCNULTY There was once a farmer who had two sons. Both grew up on the farm, helping their father until... (suddenly alarmed) GYYAACK! 
Father McNulty GAGS sticking his pizza-covered tongue out. He pours himself a glass of wine and sucks it down looking concerned for the moment. Finally, he BELCHES. 
FATHER MCNULTY That was a very stale mushroom. (beat) Where was I?... Ah, yes, one day the elder son decided to leave the farm... 
INT. VOLVO - DAY 
Hawk, Trip, and Lex look up at Father McNulty's window. 
TRIP Usually takes anywhere from ten minutes to half an hour. 
They look at their watches, then back at the window. 
HAWK Shit! This is such a lousy view. How the hell are we gonna know when he's lit? 
Lex looks at the speedometer. Hawk's got it up to ninety- five. 
LEX Jeezis, Hawk, can you at least keep it within twenty miles of the speed limit? 
HAWK Lex, am I gonna have to lock you in the trunk till we reach Detroit? Don't worry, these babies are built for speed. 
Trip holds his stomach as we hear it GROWL. 
TRIP I'm starvin' and it's way past lunchtime. 
HAWK Totally. All I've had for chow was a packet of Pop Rocks and a Yoo-hoo. 
Trip spots a sign on the side of the road: Next Exit, Sandusky. 
TRIP Let's stop in Sandusky, Hawk. 
HAWK What's in Sandusky? 
TRIP Pizza, and I been jones-in' for a pizza ever since we left St. Bernard's. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
MOMENTS LATER 
INT. VOLVO - DAY 
The boys chomp on their pizza slices and chug cans of Hawaiian Punch. Another raucous KISS tune BLARES. 
Behind them, a car horn starts HONKING rhythmically. Hawk looks into the rearview mirror and sees two guys and two girls in a tailgating Trans Am. 
The guys have 90 M.P.H. haircuts, tacky, wide-collared shirts, and massive amounts of jewelry on their necks. 
The girls wear 10-layer make-up, mega-jewelry, and hair teased so high, it touches the car's roof. 
HAWK Only a car full of guidos and stellas would ride someone's ass on a two- lane road and beep. 
INT. TRANS AM - DAY 
The speakers BLAST a DISCO SONG to which the four passengers sing. KENNY, the driver, HONKS to the disco beat. 
They're slightly older than our heroes and very full of themselves. Kenny and his best girl CHRISTINE sit in the front. BOBBY and BARBARA are in the back. It's a double disco date. 
INT. VOLVO - DAY 
Trip lifts a rubbery slice of pizza to his mouth and the top layer slides off PLOPPING into his lap. 
TRIP Eyowch! This is one hot pizza! 
LEX Trip, huck that out before it stains the upholstery! 
Trip grabs the wad of goop and throws it out the window. 
EXT. TRANS AM - DAY 
Just as the DISCO TUNE playing in the Trans Am hits the next chorus, a fistful of pizza SPLATTERS across the windshield. Freaked, Kenny swerves and zigzags all over the road. 
Righting himself, Kenny's entire family might as well have been insulted. 
KENNY Stop singing... NOW! 
He turns off the stereo and floors the accelerator, swerving into the left lane and passing the Volvo. Bobby is just now noticing the mess on the windshield. 
He starts to laugh. 
BOBBY Hey, Kenny, look! There's a hunk of fawkin' cheese on your windsheel! 
INT. VOLVO - DAY 
Lex is looking at the mess on the Trans Am's windshield and the anger in the eyes of its passengers. 
LEX Holy shit! We just pissed off the Incredible Hulk, his idiot half brother and two circus clowns. 
The Trans Am runs alongside the Volvo and Hawk turns to see Kenny pointing to the breakdown lane. 
KENNY Stop the friggin' car NOW! 
Hawk rolls up his window. Kenny yells, VOICE MUFFLED, and points to Hawk who pays absolutely no attention whatsoever. 
JAM Don't you think we should at least pull over and offer to clean it off? 
HAWK We're right behind you, Simo. Just wanted to thank you in advance for handing over those burly-ass tix me and my buds won this morning. 
The boys do a Three Stooges handshake and say "Curly!" Simple Simon on the other hand suddenly appears nonplussed 
SIMPLE SIMON Your name isn't Trip is it? 
INT. PRODUCER'S BOOTH - NIGHT 
Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam sit in the tiny producer's booth with Simon who fast forwards a reel-to-reel tape through some very loud, high-speed conversation and bits of music. 
Looking at the footage counter on the tape player, he slows down at a certain point and lets the boys listen to this: The CLICK of a phone being answered. 
SIMPLE SIMON'S VOICE Simple Simon on the Rock, go caller. 
TRIP'S VOICE Hello? Is this me? I'm Trip. Am I on the air? 
SIMPLE SIMON'S VOICE I should hang up on you right now, but you're the right caller so answer quick or get your battleship sunk. What are the names of the four members of KISS? 
TRIP'S VOICE Gene Klein, Stanley Eisen, Paul Frehley, and Peter...Criscula! Yeah, that's it! 
Pause. 
SIMPLE SIMON'S VOICE Is that your final answer? 
TRIP'S VOICE (with trepidation) Yeah. 
SIMPLE SIMON'S VOICE (building to crescendo) Trip? You just got yourself four tickets and four backstage passes to KISS live at Cobo Hall tonight! 
Pause. 
TRIP'S VOICE I did? 
SIMPLE SIMON'S VOICE Yeah, you did! 
TRIP'S VOICE Yeeeehaaawww!! This is totally fuckin' curly, man! Thank you God! 
CLI-CLICK. 
SIMPLE SIMON'S VOICE Whoa, easy, Trip, this is radio, not "Taxi Driver." Now listen up cause this next part is crucial. Stay on the line so we can get your full name, information, and... 
DIAL TONE. 
SIMPLE SIMON'S VOICE Trip? Trip? Oh, man, you didn't hang up on me did you? Trip? (beat) What kind of total moron would hang...? 
Simple Simon stops the tape and looks at the boys who look like they've just been served a life sentence behind bars. 
SIMPLE SIMON Well, there you have it. We had no choice but to give the tickets to the next caller. I'm sorry. 
Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam stare at the floor in silence. 
SIMPLE SIMON We got sodas in the fridge if that helps any. 
INT. W.A.R.P. TOWER ELEVATOR - NIGHT 
Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam ride back down the elevator sipping NeHi sodas, watching the floor numbers get lower and lower. Terry Jack's immortal hit "SEASONS IN THE SUN" plays over the elevator speaker. 
HAWK Well, here we are, dudes. One hour and thirty minutes away from the concert of the century... ticketless. All thanks to Wile E. Coyote, Super- Fucking Genius over here. 
Trip looks away from the rest, ashamed. 
LEX Really, Trip, can we bore holes in your head and use it as a bong so it actually does us some good for a change? 
TRIP Fuck you, Lex! This whole thing wouldn't have happened if it wasn't for you jinxing us. I just made an honest mistake. 
HAWK Oh, I'm sorry, Trip. What you made was a big, brainless, pile of horse shit. No offense. 
JAM Guys, GUYS! Come on, if this is anyone's fault, it's mine. I was the one who grabbed Trip's jacket by mistake. It's my fault and I apologize. 
HAWK Please, Jam, we're trying to vent some hostility here. Sure the whole thing may be your fault, but who's gonna get pissed off at you? 
Jam looks at his feet. 
JAM Sometimes I think I don't deserve friends as good as you guys. 
Hawk, Trip, and Lex cringe. 
HAWK I have one question. How could a kid who wails on the drums like it's the only thing keeping him alive even think of such a femmy thing to say? 
TRIP Really, Jam, you tryin' to make us barf? 
TRIP Waitaminit, dudes! I got it! We find four really small kids, beat the shit outta them and steal their tickets. What do you think? 
HAWK (sarcastic) Brilliance, Trip. Sheer brilliance. Give Albert Einstein here the Nobel Prize. 
Trip smiles proudly. 
LEX I think we should try sneaking in. 
HAWK Four dudes sneaking in? We'd get busted fer sure. Bad plan. 
LEX Okay, one of us sneaks in, gets four ticket stubs off some kids in the audience, comes back out, and we all "re-enter" the concerto. Voila! 
HAWK Still too risky for my money. (looking at watch) We're running out of time here. This is KISS! A victory for one is a victory for the team. I'm sure I can barter with a scalper, but if you dudes think you got better plans, go for it. We'll reconvene at that intersection... 
Hawk points to the intersection where the church, the male strip joint, the parking lot, and the Smiley Mart are located. 
HAWK ...at twenty-thirty hours. 
TRIP One more time in English. 
HAWK For the next hour and a half it's every dude for himself. Try to get at least one ticket and at 8:30 P.M. we'll meet over there. 
JAM (inspired) Wait! I know how we can get in! 
HAWK Jam, shut-up! You're not allowed to speak, remember? Go use whatever femmy idea you have to get yourself a ticket or four. I don't wanna hear it. 
JAM (sadly) But... my plan involves all four of us acting together. 
HAWK See you at 8:30, Jam. Later. (to Lex and Trip) Dudes? Later. 
Hawk, Trip, and Lex split up, leaving Jam alone. He starts walking in the opposite direction, passing MATMOKS. The leader is still on a roll, yelling through the megaphone. 
LEADER Look around you tonight, mothers! Look at all the young faces! They smile and laugh but their eyes have lost all hope! Not one among them appears to possess the love and fear of God... This satanic group KISS has stolen their souls. 
The leader's gaze finally falls upon Jam. He lets out a GASP. Yes, the leader is Mrs. Bruce. So this was her church meeting. 
She freezes when she sees her son; her jaw slackens. Meanwhile Jam looks stunned beyond comprehension. 
JAM Oh... dear... Lord!! 
Mrs. Bruce quickly hands the megaphone to another MATMOK member, who picks up where Mrs. Bruce left off. 
Jam looks around for someplace to run and hide, but it's too late. Mrs. Bruce slices through the crowd of KISS fans and grabs Jam by the ear. He yelps. 
MRS. BRUCE I don't know how you got here tonight and I don't want to know either. All I know is you're going to pay dearly for this one, young man! 
EXT. ST., SEBASTIAN'S CATHEDRAL - NIGHT 
Mrs. Bruce tugs Jam toward the intersection we saw before. They cross the street toward the corner where the Cathedral sits. 
Jam looks up at the cross on the steeple and GULPS with trepidation. 
JAM Mom, what're we...? 
MRS. BRUCE Just keep your lying, heathenous trap shut, Jeremiah. 
They climb the steps to the cathedral passing a bulletin board reading: Thank God It's Friday Mass, 6PM-7PM. 
PARISHIONERS exit the beautiful church, shaking hands with a PRIEST as they leave. 
PARISHIONERS What a wonderful mass, Father/So inspirational, Father/Thank you. 
PRIEST Thank you/Come again next week. 
Mrs. Bruce pulls Jam up to the priest. 
PRIEST Next mass is tomorrow morning, sister. 
MRS. BRUCE Can we talk, Father? I'm desperate. My son was about to defy God by going to that blasphemous KISS concert. 
PRIEST In that case, come right in. 
Meanwhile, across the street... 
EXT. WHITE CASTLE HAMBURGER JOINT - NIGHT 
Parked in front of the busy fast-food establishment we recognize the two-toned Chevy Impala with luggage tied on top. In the window we see Beth and her parents sitting at one of the booths. 
Out the window Beth looks across the street just as Jam, Mrs. Bruce, and the priest enter the cathedral. Her face drops. 
TRIP No thanks, dude. I'm beating my ticket out of some poor, defenseless chump. 
Trip exits FRAME. 
SCALPER What's happening to kids today? 
INT. IT'S RAINING MEN STRIP JOINT - NIGHT 
Hawk enters your average, everyday, male strip joint. A crowd of LUSTY WOMEN cheer on a STRIPPER IN A FIREMAN'S SUIT. He dances on a lighted, tile stage under a spinning, mirror ball. 
Hawk shows the MAN AT THE DOOR his fake license and the man nods him in. He approaches the bar in the early stages of being very intimidated. 
The BARTENDER, a man dressed only in tight, black, tuxedo pants, shirt cuffs, and a tie, comes up to Hawk. 
HAWK (voice cracking) Like to sign up for the contest. 
The bartender gives Hawk the once over. 
BARTENDER You're a little scrawny, but thanks to the concert we're low on amateurs. Name? 
HAWK Hawk. 
BARTENDER Pick a song, Hawk. 
HAWK Got any KISS? 
BARTENDER You kidding? This is Detroit. Drink? 
HAWK Yeah, a man's drink... 
Hawk squints at a name tag on the bartender's tie. 
HAWK ...Dickey. 
Dickey goes to the bottle rack on the other side of the bar. 
HAWK (to himself) I'm gonna need all the help I can get tonight. 
Dickey returns with the drink and Hawk pulls out his money clip. 
HAWK (looking at the drink) What's that? 
BARTENDER You mean you never seen a Jack Daniels on the rocks before? 
Hawk looks at the unfamiliar drink again trying to play it cool. 
HAWK Sure, I have. But not one with ice in it, that's all. 
BARTENDER (seeing money clip) Save your money, stud muffin. The lady at the end of the bar sends her love. 
Dickey points to a WOMAN sitting at the end of the bar. Mature and sexy. She's a knock-out. Every teenage boy's fantasy. Hawk's eyes pop at this "Mrs. Robinson" before him. 
HAWK Whoa... she is a killer. 
BARTENDER Amanda Finch. Her ex is one of the wealthiest businessmen in Detroit. Play your cards right and you could hit paydirt. She like 'em young. (leaning in) And since you look a little new at this, let me give you three words of advice. Hard to get. Think it, act it, know it, be it. Nothing a woman loves more than when you beat her at her own head games. 
Dicky pats Hawk's shoulder and leaves. Hawk looks away from Amanda and scans the room. He glances back at Amanda. She's still gazing at him the way queens of yore must have eyed particularly cute knights. She winks and toasts Hawk. 
Hawk raises his glass smiling nervously. They both sip at their drinks. She licks her lips suggestively at him. And, Hawk proceeds to COUGH up his mouthful of Jack Daniels, SPRAYING it all over the bar. 
SMILEY MART / HAULING BASS 
EXT. SMILEY MART - NIGHT 
Your typical 70's convenient store. Out front two SIX YEAR OLDS in Star Wars tee-shirts play tug-o-war with a Stretch Armstrong doll. 
Trip stomps over grabbing them by their mini shirts. When he tries to act tough, it's pathetic. Even six year olds aren't afraid. 
TRIP Hey, you little twerps, gimme your KISS tickets or I'll pop your fuckin' faces in. 
SIX YEAR OLD #1 We don't have any KISS tickets. 
SIX YEAR OLD #2 Yeah, KISS sucks! 
TRIP I oughta kick your asses for sayin' that. 
He grabs the Stretch Armstrong and stuffs it in his pocket. 
TRIP But I'm in a hurry so I'll just take this instead. Now scram. 
Chongo scratches his head. 
CHONGO How much cash do you figure? 
LITTLE KID Take five for a minute, Chongo. Let me do the math. 
The little kid taps his finger on his chin and the theme from "JEOPARDY" begins. While the kid thinks, Trip looks nervously up at Chongo and his buds. Chongo reaches into his denim vest pocket and we hear a CRINKLING NOISE. He comes back up with two walnuts, putting them between his bicep and forearm. 
Trip watches in horror as Chongo makes a muscle and the walnuts are shelled between two walls of iron-hard flesh. CREEEAAAACK! Chongo eats the walnuts, shells and all. 
EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
The full-to-capacity parking lot is patrolled by a couple of SECURITY GUARDS. 
Lex cautiously makes his way to the edge of the parking lot and looks at the back side of Cobo Hall just beyond the chain link fence that surrounds the lot. 
He crouches down and walks between two cars parked against the fence, looking both ways. Seeing a guard's flashlight beam, he sits stock still until the beam sweeps past, then SIGHS eased. 
LEX (whispering to self) I can't believe I'm actually entertaining the notion of sneaking in. I oughta have my cranium examined. 
Lex finds a vertical break in the chain link. He lays on his back, slides through, then stands on the other side of the fence. He's at the edge of a weedy, littery field that also happens to be poorly lit. 
LEX Whoa. Danger Will Robinson. 
Spooked, he lays down again intending to slide back through when a flashlight beam hits his eyes. 
SECURITY GUARD'S VOICE Hey you! Get back in here! 
Lex sees the guard standing about fifty feet away on the other side of the fence. Panicking, he bolts deeper into the field. 
SECURITY GUARD'S VOICE You're not getting far, kid! 
Lex double-times it as we hear the guard yelling into his walkie-talkie. 
SECURITY GUARD'S VOICE We got one just ran into the field from the north lot! 
The field gets darker as Lex closes in on Cobo Hall's well- lit loading dock, where ROADIES empty the remaining bits of KISS's monstrous set from an 18-wheeler. Other huge trucks are parked nearby. There's a bustle of last minute activity. 
EXT. LOADING DOCK - NIGHT 
Lex scurries from giant speaker box to a stack of lights to huge trunks, keeping well hidden. He dodges roadies and avoids being seen by OTHER GUARDS. 
He slithers along side the 18-wheeler and nears the loading bay. Up ahead some auxiliary speakers, drum kits, and scaffolding wait their turn to be carried into the building. 
SECURITY GUARD'S VOICE There he is! 
Lex spins. The security guard, flanked by two others, barrel right for him. 
LEX Shit! 
He dives rolls under the 18-wheeler. The three security guards leap for the pavement and crawl under the semi after him. 
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE SEMI 
The three guards scramble to their feet and grab a SCRAWNY BODY. They spin him around roughly. 
SECURITY GUARD Alright, wiseguy, you are so outta here! 
They suddenly realize they've got the wrong man. It's a roadie. 
ROADIE Hey, what the fuck? 
The roadie holds up his all-access laminate angrily. 
ROADIE Keep your paws to yourself, ya dumb fuckin' apes. 
The security guards look around frantically for Lex as other roadies join in to defend their comrade. 
SECURITY GUARD Where'd he go? You see him? 
No one pays attention as a bass drum is carried past the guards and up the loading dock ramp. They don't notice Lex crammed inside contorted into a shape befitting a yoga master. 
Praying he won't be spotted, Lex holds his breath as he's carried into the building and disappears. 
JAM IN A JAM / KISS THIS 
INT. ST. SEBASTIAN'S CATHEDRAL - NIGHT 
Jam sits in the front pew, head buried in his hands as Mrs. Bruce and the priest talk on the alter. 
Hawk looks up at the hundreds of astonished eyes staring at him. He wipes his mouth, then a look of ease washes over his face. 
HAWK Wow. I feel a hundred times better! 
He hands the vomit-filled pitcher back to the shocked woman. 
HAWK Thanks lady. 
He looks over at the emcee, who gazes at Hawk from the DJ booth. 
HAWK Maestro? As you were. 
The emcee stands perfectly still, jaw agape. 
HAWK Come on, dude, we got a bunch of frisky felines waiting for some entertainment! The show must go on! 
Hawk starts gyrating even though the music is still off. The emcee shrugs, re-cuing the song. It starts again as Hawk faces the crowd, dancing with new-found bravado. 
The women come out of their dumbstruck comas and reluctantly start CLAPPING again. 
Hawk pulls off his jacket and twirls it over his head Roger Daltry style. Then he pulls it back down and tosses it into the crowd. The women actually fight over it. 
Encouraged, Hawk then peels off his KISS Army tee-shirt and hurls it at the women, who SQUEAL with delight. Sure, he may be scrawny, but they don't mind. This lad's got personality. 
Adrenaline pumping, confidence building, Hawk starts playing the crowd of very responsive ladies. 
He unbuttons his jeans first. Then, leaving them on, he does an "air guitar" medley: Chuck Berry, ZZ Top, Angus Young from AC/DC, and Elvis Costello in six easy steps. 
Hawk finishes off with a Pete Townshend windmill, shaking his ass at his audience in mid-strum, then licks his finger and touches one of his cheeks: "hot stuff" (he does this in a manly way of course). 
Then Hawk pauses to adjust what looks to be his underwear bunching up in his crack. 
The women WHOO-HOO. 
He segues into a Mick Jagger rooster strut and the ladies go ga-ga. He makes the sign of the horns with each hand and wiggles a protruding tongue like Gene Simmons. The gals scream in orgastic joy. 
Then, Hawk goes for the gold. Yes, he does the Fonzie dance! The women are now overcome by sheer animal lust. Hawk's whipped his audience into a frenzied pack of bitches in heat. Amanda smirks and sucks from her little drink straw suggestively. 
At long last Hawk figures he has to give them what they want. 
He puts his fingers to his fly, pauses, then unzips. His Brittanias fall to his ankles, revealing a pair of bony legs sticking down from some KISS boxer shorts. The ladies go batty. 
Unfortunately Hawk has neglected a cardinal rule of disrobing. Never pull your pants down without taking your shoes off first. He tries to kick off his shoes. The left one goes flying across the bar and THWACK, beans a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN in the face. She flies backwards over a chair. 
Trying to kick the other shoe off, Hawk loses his balance and falls backwards, hitting his head on the edge of the bar. 
DRUM ROLL / NEGOTIATION 
INT. SMILEY MART - NIGHT 
Trip looks at the little kid, Chongo, and the two buds in fear. 
TRIP Two hundred bucks? 
LITTLE KID You heard me, nad breath. My time's precious and I think that's a reasonable price to pay for your sorry life. 
TRIP Look, I want to live, but I don't know where the fuck I'm gonna find two hundred bucks. 
The little kid shakes his head in disgust. 
LITTLE KID Chongo? Take him outside and tear his ass out through his mouth. 
Chongo advances, muscles flexing. 
TRIP Hold on! I know how I can get the money! I just figured it out! Only you might wanna wait outside. 
The little kid and Chongo look at each other. 
CHONGO I don't trust him. 
LITTLE KID I think he's on the level. He's too stupid to try anything sneaky anyway. Look at him, he's a moron. 
They look back at Trip. 
LITTLE KID You got fifteen minutes and not a second longer. We have a concert to go to. See you outside. 
Trip nods sullenly as the kid, Chongo, and the two buds exit. Then he checks to make sure Stretch Armstrong is still with him. 
INT. BASS DRUM - NIGHT 
BETH can hardly speak. She gulps thinking of what to say. 
BETH I have a confession. Here it is. 
Beth gives him the biggest, wettest, sloppiest kiss in recorded history. She pulls away finally wiping her mouth. 
BETH I didn't mean for that to be so... intense. Forgive me. 
JAM I don't care. I wanna hear more. 
She lunges at him again, kissing him for dear life. Her lips leave his and begin to explore his chin, neck, ear. 
BETH I've loved you ever since I first laid eyes on you, Jeremiah. I've just always been too scared to show it. 
JAM Beth, I can't believe you just said that because that's exactly how I've always felt about you... Call me Jam. It's my band name. 
BETH You don't know how long I've been waiting to hear that... Jam! 
He kisses her neck. Unable to stop, they start undressing each other, both breathing heavy. 
BETH We've got to take this slow... 
JAM Right, slow... 
BETH Oh, screw it! 
She tears his tee-shirt open with her teeth. 
INT. IT'S RAINING MEN STRIP JOINT - NIGHT 
A really buff STRIPPER dressed as a construction worker is on stage with about ten others who stand in the background. The emcee's hand hovers above the stripper's head. 
EMCEE Okay, ladies, it's down to... Troy the Human Jackhammer... 
The women APPLAUD as we... 
FOLLOW the emcee's hand to Hawk who holds an ice pack on the side of his head. 
EMCEE ...and Mr. Massive Head Wound Accompanied by an Upset Stomach-Hawk! 
The women APPLAUD but not quite as loud. 
EMCEE No contest. The grand prize of seventy- five dollars goes to Troy the Human Jackhammer! 
The women cheer and a DISCO SONG starts as Troy does a reprise of his act. Hawk walks away from the stage with the rest of the rejected strippers, looking the way he feels: pretty damn stupid. He puts on his pants, trying to walk at the same time and falls to his knees. 
A helpful hand grabs him under the arm and helps him up. It's Amanda looking lustier than ever. 
HAWK Thanks, miss. 
AMANDA You're too kind. I'm Amanda. 
HAWK Right, well, thanks for the drinks and stuff, Amanda, but there's no reason for me to stick around these parts anymore. 
AMANDA Don't be so glum, Hawk. The night's still young and filled with plenty of compensatory possibilities. 
HAWK Huh? 
AMANDA I'd be in a position to spend some money on you if you'd get in a position and spend some time on me. 
Hawk GULPS. 
INT. CONFESSIONAL BOOTH - NIGHT 
Jam and Beth lay buck naked, tightly wrapped around each other in the heat of passion on the confessional booth floor. They kiss, sweat, and PANT heavily. 
Suddenly, the sliding door to the priest's booth opens. Jam and Beth freeze. 
PRIEST'S VOICE Where are you, son? 
JAM Uhh, tying my shoe. 
PRIEST'S VOICE Oh. So, have you thought of a colorful confession yet? 
JAM Actually, yes. Last year I walked out of a candy store with a Reggie Bar I hadn't paid for, but went back and apologized the next day. 
PRIEST'S VOICE Boooring. Think, boy, think! 
We hear the door SLIDE shut again as Beth and Jam pick up where they left off. 
The hipster protectively pulls the dressing room door shut as two SECURITY MEN jump in front of it. 
Instantly, huge, burly hands come down on Lex's shoulders. Before he can react, a slew of OFFICERS have him off his feet and carry him away, a stunned expression frozen to his face. 
EXT. ALLEY BEHIND COBO HALL - NIGHT 
Lex is thrown into a heaping garbage dumpster by the scruff of his neck. The security officers laugh and pat themselves on the back as they hurry back in. 
Lex peeks out the lid. The alley is dark and spooky. He jumps out of the trash and comes face to face with the biggest GERMAN SHEPHERD that has ever lived. Its teeth are bared and its black, wolf-like body is coiled, ready to spring. GRRRRRRR! 
Lex jumps backward hitting the dumpster. A GROWLING PITBULL walks out from the shadows and joins the Shepherd. 
LEX (petrified) Dogs! Why did it have to be dogs! 
Then, a GROWLING DOBERMAN with a spiked collar emerges from the darkness on the other side of the alley, its solid, muscular form making the brick building nearby look like jello. 
Lex starts SLAPPING himself on the face. 
LEX Wake up, Lex! Wake up, man! This part's gotta be a nightmare! 
No luck. He stops, when several other DOGS emerge from the shadows and gather behind the first three. These new mutts immediately join in the GROWLING chorale. The Shepherd snaps at Lex. 
LEX (to the heavens) God, if you ever get me outta this, I swear I will never masturbate again! 
The pack BARKS even louder. 
LEX (to heaven again) I REALLY MEAN IT THIS TIME! 
INT. CONFESSIONAL BOOTH - NIGHT 
Beth lays in Jam's arms on the floor. They might as well be the only two people on the face of the earth. They whisper. 
BETH So. Is it true that Gene Simmons had a cow's tongue grafted onto his real one? Y'know, to make it so long? 
JAM I dunno. I think he had the piece of skin under his tongue removed so he could stick it out farther. I'm not too up on Gene trivia. 
BETH Your man is the drummer, Peter Criss, right? 
JAM Peter Criss is my inspiration, man. If I paid a hundred bucks for a KISS show and all I saw was his solo, I'd consider it... money... Hey, how'd you know that? 
BETH I have all your notebook doodles memorized, Jam... Here. 
She opens her backpack and pulls out a package addressed to Jam. The return address reads: Beth Bumsteen, Somewhere in Ann Arbor. 
JAM Ann Arbor? 
BETH My dad's company is relocating him. We're moving. That's why I was acting so freaky in school today. I thought it was the last time I'd ever see you. Anyway, open the box. I would have given it to you this morning, except... like I said, I was freaking out. 
Jam opens the box and his jaw drops. It's a black tee-shirt with the "Mystery" logo printed in white on the chest. Jam holds it up. It's gigantic. 
BETH I pass by this really cool tee-shirt shop on my way to school every day and I know you wear those black tee- shirts all the time. You look like a size thirty-five, but all the sizes were in Roman numerals. So I got you an XXXL. That's thirty-five, isn't it? 
Touched, Jam kisses her for a long time. He starts putting on the shirt when suddenly they hear the SHUFFLING of the priest entering his booth. Jam grabs his clothes and sits back on the bench. Beth starts getting dressed at his feet. 
PRIEST Okay, you better have something really sinful for me this time, son. My patience is worn to threads and your mom will be here any minute. 
JAM (pulling up his pants) Alright, Father, here it is. About two weeks ago I went to my cousin's wedding and one of the bridesmaids asked me if I wanted to take a bath. 
PRIEST No... 
Beth is tying her shoes. Jam slips on his socks. 
JAM I was insulted, so I asked her if I was wreaking some wicked b.o., right? Then she said no, she wanted to take a bath with me. 
PRIEST Oh, this is terrible... Please go on. 
JAM Well, she was a very tempting siren, Father. Built like you wouldn't believe. So I gave into temptation about a block away from the wedding reception at this little motel that charges by the hour. 
Jam pauses. 
PRIEST Well? Continue! Continue! 
JAM Okay... when she peeled off that gown, you'll never guess what she was wearing underneath. 
PRIEST Was it a teddy? 
Fully dressed, Beth crawls out of the confessional. 
JAM No. Much bet... I mean, much more sinful than that. 
BEEFY JERK #2 You're lucky you're still alive, wench. If you was a guy, we woulda thought nothin' of sawing your head off with a butter knife. 
BEEFY JERK #1 What are we gonna do with her anyway? 
Beefy jerk #2 bares what's left of his yellow, crusty teeth 
BEEFY JERK #2 I dunno, but she sure looks fun. 
Beefy jerk #1 touches the bandage on his head. 
BEEFY JERK #1 Yeah, and payback's a bitch. 
Christine GAGS at the thought. 
ANGLE ON WALL CRACK 
Lex's eyeball bulges with terror. 
EXT. IT'S RAINING MEN PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
DOLLY FROM the front end of a Jaguar XKE, Michigan vanity plate reading: AMANDA. 
TO its windshield, through which we see Hawk and Amanda kissing in the front seat, clad only in their underwear. Something like "ME AND MRS. JONES" plays on the radio. When they separate, Amanda takes out a flask and offers it to Hawk. 
HAWK Thanks. 
He gulps some down and pulls the flask away COUGHING. 
HAWK What the hell is that? 
AMANDA Gin. 
HAWK Whoa. Some of this hard liquor's a tad too manly for me. I'm a brewski man myself. 
AMANDA Better ease up then, Hawk. Wouldn't want to give you whiskey dick would we? 
HAWK Who's Whiskey Dick? 
Amanda plants a stocking foot on Hawk's crotch and rubs. 
AMANDA Well. Obviously no one you have to worry about... Woody. 
HAWK My name's not Woody, it's Haw-haw... 
Hawk's eyes cross as he lets out a DEEP, OBNOXIOUS GROAN. 
HAWK ...holy shit! 
Amanda looks down at his crotch. 
AMANDA But you do know Premature Peter, don't you? Shame, I just bought these stockings. 
Hawk has never been more embarrassed. 
HAWK Well, Amanda, this has been quite a night. So far you've seen me and my dick throw up. (to the heavens) What's next? Projectile diarrhea? (beat, to Amanda) Man. What a stud, huh? 
AMANDA Believe it or not, you still have a way to go before you start competing with my soon-to-be-ex-husband... the champion of lousy lovemaking. The man who thinks he's the biggest and the best... The man who thinks every secretary, stewardess, and cocktail waitress he fucks should lick his feet for the honor. The man for whom faking it was invented. Christ, if I hadn't gotten pregnant with our son, I would have never known I even had sex with the prick. 
She takes a healthy swig of gin, relishing its bitterness. 
HAWK You love him? 
AMANDA I just told you, he's a big, hairy... 
HAWK No, I mean... you love your son? 
AMANDA More than anything in the world. 
HAWK And he loves you back, doesn't he? 
AMANDA He's a little spoiled, but I know he does. 
HAWK Well, shame on him if he doesn't. 
She pats his shoulder. 
AMANDA You're sweet. 
Hawk stares out the windshield. 
BEEFY JERK #1 Who's there? 
Silence except for CRICKETS. Then... from out of the darkness emerges a figure... Lex. Christine's eyes brighten like a bulb. 
LEX I'm here for the girl and the car. You can try to stop me, but I must warn you, it may be hazardous to your health. 
The beefy jerks laugh at this little punk. They start toward him, one with a tire iron, the other a big monkey wrench. 
BEEFY JERK #1 Too bad. He was such a young idiot. 
BEEFY JERK #2 Ehhh. He was a stupid boy. He deserved to die. 
Lex lets out a quick HIGH-PITCHED WHISTLE. The pack of BARKING dogs led by the Shepherd, the Pit Bull, the Doberman, and the Basset Hound, step from the darkness and flank Lex, GROWLING and SNARLING at the beefy jerks. 
LEX Listen to them. Children of the night. What music they make... Hounds of hell? Say hello to dinner! 
The beefy jerks drop their tools on their feet and yelp in pain. The pack takes this as a threat and charge the beefy jerks, who bolt for a glass-partitioned office. The dogs SCRATCH and BARK at the window ferociously. 
Lex smiles at Christine. She smiles back. He presses the "down" button on the lift and the Volvo descends. Lex yells to the beefy jerks through the glass. 
LEX One foot out of that office and your asses are Alpo! 
Lex unlocks Christine. She leaps into his arms. 
CHRISTINE Wow! Thank you! You're cooler than the Fonz. 
She gives him a lingering kiss. Lex leans back, gives the double thumbs-up, and says... 
LEX Aaaayyyyy! 
Lex takes her hand and they walk over to the Volvo. Lex lets her in then rounds the car to the driver's side. 
BEEFY JERK #1 Hey, what about the dogs? 
LEX You got a phone in there? 
They nod. Lex drips a dry smile onto them. 
LEX Call the cops. 
The beefy jerks watch in disbelief as the Volvo SCREECHES out of the chop shop. 
2 GODDBYES, A PUNCH IN THE GUT AND A DRUMSTICK 
EXT. WHITE CASTLE PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
Beth's parents wait in the running car as Jam and Beth share a heartfelt good-bye outside the back door. 
BETH Ann Arbor isn't... that far from Cleveland, right? 
JAM Nah. Once I get my own wheels, I could come up all the time. 
BETH That'd be great. Hey, maybe someday your band'll play there. It's a college town, you know? 
Jam takes her hands. 
JAM I feel like such an idiot. Why didn't I just say something a year and a half ago? Man, think of how much time we wasted. 
BETH Let's not think about the past. Let's just think about from today on. I'll never forget you, Jam. 
JAM Tell me about it. Church will never be the same again. 
They stare at each other for a really long time. Then, kiss. 
BEEP. BEEP. Dad looks back out the window and CLEARS HIS THROAT LOUDLY. 
BETH (flustered) Coming dad. (to Jam) I'll call you. Soon as we get a phone. Bye. 
JAM Bye. 
She gets in the car. They both wave as the Impala turns a corner out of sight. Jam is left alone still waving long after she's gone. 
INT. AMANDA'S JAG - NIGHT 
Amanda and Hawk are half-dressed post-coitus. She looks in her purse. 
HAWK Amanda, as ironic as this is gonna sound, I can't take any money for... I'm no Midnight Cowboy, y'know. It would only cheapen the whole deal for me. 
AMANDA I'm not paying you for the lovemaking, Hawk. I just want you to have whatever you needed the money for when you took me up on my offer. 
Taken aback by his confidence, Mrs. Bruce grabs his ear and tries to pull him away. He won't budge. 
JAM Again, can I have my drumsticks? 
A BUNCH OF IDIOTS walk by with big transistor radios. One of them holds a Mr. Microphone and heckles the MATMOKS. 
LEAD IDIOT Hey, I'm on the radio! Hi, good- lookin'. We'll be back to pick you up later! 
Mrs. Bruce yells at Jam through her bullhorn. 
MRS. BRUCE Drumsticks are the least of your worries, young man. You are in a world of... 
Jam yanks the Mr. Microphone from the lead idiot and screams at his mother, his voice amplified on the transistors. Everyone stares. 
JAM I know, mom, I've been in trouble for about twelve hours now! Hellooooo!? 
The other MATMOKS turn to look as Jam climbs onto a trash receptacle and shouts down at his mother, his face slowly turning purple. 
JAM I'm gonna be spending the next two years of my life at St. Bernard's Boarding School, remember?! I'm gonna be outta your hair till I'm a legal adult, remember?! That way, all you have to do is go to church, light a candle, pray to a little statue for me, and voila! All is forgiven and forgotten, right mom?!! Then, you can spend your days in guilt-free pursuit of more constructive activities like telling everybody else how screwed up their lives are! That way you no longer need the patience and understanding required to communicate on some normal level with your own child!!! And that way you don't even have to think about how tough it was for you when you were growing up, and it's a good thing too. Cause if you did, you'd realize what a LOUSY, GODDAMN, SHITTY- ASS, PARENT YOU ARE!!! 
The crowd of KISS fans APPLAUD Jam's rant. Mrs. Bruce is utterly winded from the assault. 
MRS. BRUCE (timidly) Jeremiah... what's gotten into you? 
JAM (into Mr. Microphone) I just lost my virginity in a confessional booth! Lord have mercy!! 
The crowd cheers. Jam jumps down and hands the Mr. Microphone back to the lead idiot. He turns to his mom. 
JAM For the last time, mom. Let me have my fucking drumsticks. Please. 
Mrs. Bruce reaches into the trash, finds the drumsticks and hands them to him. He spins them like pistols, then stuffs them into his socks and walks away. 
SIMPLE PLAN 
EXT. IT'S RAINING MEN STRIP CLUB - NIGHT 
Hawk runs to the scalper across the street who's selling a ticket to another KISS fan. 
HAWK Whoa! Whoa! WHOA! That better not be the last ticket! I hope you have another one for me! 
The scalper sees Hawk and bolts down the street disappearing around a corner. Hawk stops. He's lost him. 
Hawk sulks to the now-familiar intersection where all four landmarks meet. He takes one more look up the block at Cobo Hall. Nearly all the KISS fans are inside. The streets are almost deserted. 
HAWK Fuck me! 
He sees someone out of the corner of his eye across the street. It's Jam. Lex approaches the other corner. Trip comes up to the forth corner. They all stop when they see each other. Each standing on his own corner. They're all pissed. They meet in the middle of the street as last minute CONCERT GOERS hurry by. 
HAWK Any luck? 
TRIP Plenty, but it was all bad. 
LEX I found the Volvo. 
HAWK Tickets? 
They all shake no. 
HAWK Well, dudes, the only way we're gonna see KISS this tour is by some fuckin' miracle. 
Suddenly, a commotion up the street. A SURLY MOM yanks four 12 YEAR OLD BRATS dressed like KISS by the scruffs of their necks. She's furious, they're CRYING. 
SURLY MOM How dare you sneak out of the house like that! You had me worried to death! Don't you know this is Detroit! And for a degenerate band like KISS! They're sick, sick, sick and oughta be in jail with their vile antics! 
She throws a wad of paper to the pavement as they pass our four heroes. The dudes watch her pull the brats away. 
SURLY MOM Just wait until your father gets ahold of you! 
Jam, Hawk, Lex, and Trip turn and look at the crumpled wad at their feet. It's an envelope. An ANGELIC SPOTLIGHT FROM ABOVE highlights it. 
LEX No... You don't think...? 
HAWK Nah. Couldn't be. 
They all shake their heads in unison resolved that it isn't. Then, unable to control themselves, they dive for the envelope. Jam tears it open. His trembling hand reaches in. All their eyes focus like lasers on what's inside. 
Jam pulls out four KISS tickets. Their jaws drop. Their eyes bug. 
JAM It's a miracle! A miracle! 
