DOG DAY AFTERNOON 
"DOG DAY AFTERNOON" 
by 
Frank Pierson 
Final Draft 
FADE IN: 
EXT. ELECTRIC SIGN 
It FILLS THE SCREEN (designed to exactly FILL THE FRAME size of whatever ratio we're shooting in).  It says: 
This message will be a little cryptic to the movie audience on an essentially BLACK SCREEN.  HOLD for a beat, then it changes: the lights flash this sign, which should explain it to everyone: 
And a slow distant ROLL OF THUNDER in the far distance; now the SOUND of media begin to come up loud, under: 
EXT. FLATBUSH AVENUE - DAY 
LONG SHOT down the Avenue, 400 mm lens, heat waves shimmering, thousands of old people, and people with children in strollers moving restlessly about in the heat on those endless miles of benches. 
The SHOT is ON SCREEN only for a beat or two, then gone... 
SOUND TRACK COMES FROM A THOUSAND TRANSISTOR RADIOS, TV SETS, AUTO RADIOS, BLENDED IN THE OPEN AIR... 
RADIO ANNOUNCER 1 (V.O.) ...the situation continued tense in the Middle East today, as... 
EXT. SHEA STADIUM (TV CLIP) - DAY 
An unnamed player swings and hits a high pop up... 
ANNOUNCER 2 (V.O.) ...hits a high inside pitch foul into the upper stands... 
ANGLE ON CROWD 
as the ball comes down they scramble and fight for it... 
A touch of viciousness... 
ANNOUNCER 3 (V.O.) ...B-52's meanwhile, unleashed the heaviest bombing of the war... 
EXT. MOVIE HOUSE TO MACDONALD'S - DAY 
We are SEEING HEIDI, though we don't know it yet - she's just another pretty 175-pound Italian girl with two kids, KIMMY, JIMMY, about four and five years old.  Right now she is a lump of browning flesh, shining with oil among rows of similar ladies (mostly thinner, but all with a certain unhealthy softness about them) laid out in rows and groups across the sand.  SHOOT LOW AND LONG, so heat shimmers rise, as though the heat were baking the oil out of this mob, visible suntan oil pollution...  Heidi's transistor blasts ROCK MUSIC into the air. 
LYRICS (OVER) (Roberta Flack) REVEREND LEE, SHE SAID, LORD KNOWS I LOVE YOU, REVEREND LEE - DO IT TO ME (etc., etc.) 
ANNOUNCER 3 (V.O.) ...the American High Command announced the famed 25th Cavalry Division would be coming home!  The 25th Cavalry, long since afoot, hardened in battle in the jungles of World War II... 
FAR DISTANT THUNDER ROLLS... 
INT/EXT. SONNY'S CAR - STREET - DAY 
It is parked in a drab Brooklyn street.  Beside the car stands SAL, medium height, also good-looking in an intense boyish way.  His eyes dart about suspiciously, the ever-watchful Sal. 
There is a watchful reserve in Sal that contrasts to Sonny's outgoing bounciness: first impression is Sonny is all bark; Sal is the bite.  Sal is dressed in impressive blue suit style, he looks like a kid trying to impress the Godfather. He even wears a hat.  Now, matching Sal's preparations inside the car, he checks his tie's alignment, shoots his cuffs and is ready... 
Meanwhile, on their car radio: 
ELTON JOHN (Amoreena) AND SHE DREAMS OF CRYSTAL STREAMS OF DAYS GONE BY WHEN WE COULD LEAN LAUGHING FIT TO BURST UPON EACH OTHER... 
ANOTHER ANGLE BY CAR 
As he turns, from the back of the car, JACKIE appears with a huge florist box, tied with ribbon.  Jackie is an eighteen year old with bad complexion and in contrast to Sonny and Sal is dressed in teenage sloppiness.  Adidas, T-shirt, bowling jacket, jeans.  He is uncertain: waits for directions from Sonny.  Sonny takes the florist box from him. 
We see a water truck drive down the street, followed by Sonny's car, which drives up near bank.  It stops, Jackie gets out, crosses to bank window, peers through, then 
ANGLE INSIDE CAR 
returns to car.  Leans in, has fake conversation with Sonny. 
They are waiting.  Sonny checks his watch, turns to Sal in back seat: 
SONNY 30 seconds, Sal... 
They wait.  At appropriate moment, Sal exits car, walks toward bank.  Slowly Sonny gets out. 
INT. BANK - DAY 
A slightly seedy little branch bank, old yellow brick, blond varnished wood, a rubber plant, an American flag.  Through the windows we SEE HOWARD, the aged black bank guard, in uniform, taking down the American flag from outside.  Past him comes Sal carrying an attache case.  He passes Howard coming toward us through the door into the bank.  As he passes CAMERA: 
INSERT: BANK CLOCK 
as it CLICKS from 2:57 to 2:58 PM. 
MOVING SHOT WITH SAL 
as he moves toward the left-hand deposit-slips desks. 
seeing that the bank is closed, locked in, with no customers, crosses toward the front teller's cage area, carrying the florist box.  As he reaches the other side, he rips open the box and takes the rifle out and aims it level onto SYLVIA BALL, the teller, who automatically takes the "closed" sign and holds it in front of her face as though to protect herself from the rifle. 
SYLVIA (holding sign in front of her face) Sorry, this window is shut... 
TWO SHOT - MULVANEY AND SAL 
as Mulvaney stands and yells to Sylvia... 
ANGLE ON BACK OF BANK, REST ROOM AREA 
as MARGARET, an accountant, comes out of the ladies' room, starts to cross downstage toward her desk, sees what is happening, and momentarily freezes in her tracks. 
SONNY 
The cues have got all fucked up, but he's so programmed and ready, he can't adjust, so the speech he had ready comes out now: 
SONNY Okay, this is a stickup!  Nobody move!  This is a fucking stickup! Just freeze now, goddammit!  Get away from your desk... get in the center - get in the center! 
Sylvia and Edna start to move toward the rear of the bank, toward Margaret's desk. 
MULVANEY 
aghast at his own outspokenness... Sal holding the gun levelled on him. 
MULVANEY Okay, okay... we know it's a stickup! 
SONNY (to Jackie, re: Howard) If he moves - blow his guts out... Cover him! 
TWO SHOT - SONNY & JACKIE 
Jackie, staring at the real guns, turns to Sonny... 
JACKIE I'm sorry, Sonny... I can't make it... 
Jackie starts to move toward the front door. 
SONNY Hey, for christ's sake... now... fuckin' asshole... (turns to Sal) He can't make it. 
SAL Fuck him - let him out! 
Sonny yells out at frozen Howard. 
SONNY Hey... let him out! 
MULVANEY (yells) Do what the gentleman says, Howard. 
Sonny sees that Howard is useless, so he runs to Howard, grabbing the keys from him and pulls Howard along with him to the front door.  Jackie unlocks the door, and Jackie, with a last apologetic glance, gives his gun to Sonny and vanishes into the sweltering afternoon.  Sonny then frisks Howard and has a sudden afterthought as he locks the door again.  He quickly unlocks it and shouts out at Jackie. 
EXT. BANK - DAY 
SONNY Hey, don't take the car! 
JACKIE (on sidewalk) Well, how'll I get home? 
SONNY Take the subway.  We need the car. (as Jackie starts to walk away) Hey, gimme the keys - the keys! 
Jackie stops, fumbles for keys, crosses back to Sonny with them. 
JACKIE (points to fig. desk) Sonny, there's somebody under that desk over there... I'm sorry... 
SONNY It's okay... it's okay... 
Sonny turns into the bank once more, as Jackie walks off toward the subway, pointing inside at a desk near the window as he does, to point something out to Sonny. 
INT. BANK - DAY 
Sonny, re-entering the bank, speaks to Howard. 
SONNY Lock it. 
Sonny now crosses to desk that Jackie indicated, as everyone watches him, as though it's all in the game. 
SONNY (taps loudly on top of desk) Hey... get outta there!  Nobody's gonna hurt you. 
JENNY, a young, frightened girl, peeks out from under the desk, obviously afraid to reveal herself. 
Sonny starts to move toward the front of the bank.  Sal turns so he can cover everyone.  Sonny turns to order Howard. 
SONNY Pull the drapes. 
Howard doesn't move. 
SONNY Pulla drapes! 
Howard belatedly leaps to work, pulling drapes that screen off the interior from outside.  The door has no drapes or blinds and thus when the drapes are closed there is a corridor of space across the street we will always be able to see. And from which people outside will always be able to see in. As Howard finishes the task, he then walks back to the huddled group on the rear. 
SONNY 
on his way to the back of the bank, is digging into his jacket pocket; he swings around as he passes the camera that is bolted to a wall bracket covering the tellers' area.  He whips out a spray can and gives the lens a shot of red paint. There are three cameras in all, each of which he sprays. 
SONNY (grinning) No replay, folks... no alarms... 
SONNY (to Miriam) Okay... open this. 
Miriam crosses to gate, presses the necessary button and the gate opens from them.  Sonny watches this carefully, noting where the buzzer button is.  He crosses in front of the drawer at the first cage.  He tries to open the drawer. 
It's obviously locked. 
SONNY Okay, who's the head teller here? 
SYLVIA I am. 
SONNY Open this up! 
Sylvia comes forward and unlocks the first drawer, and begins to remove the cash, but Sonny grabs her hands...  alarmed... 
SONNY Don't take it all out! 
He grabs a piece of paper or cardboard... 
CLOSE SHOT - SONNY'S HANDS AND CASH IN DRAWER 
He takes all the singles but one out of the singles slot in the drawer, leaving the bottom single in place.  It is held there by a metal clip.  He carefully slips the paper under the clip and then removes the single. 
It is clear this is an automatic alarm - meanwhile... 
SONNY Boy, I can't trust a one of you... I worked in a bank, I know the alarms, so don't try to fool around with me! 
BACK TO SHOT OF SONNY AND SYLVIA AND MIRIAM 
as they move to 2nd cash drawer at 2nd teller's cage.  Sylvia unlocks the drawer and starts to reach in for the cash, but Sonny pushes his hand into the drawer instead.  He begins to stuff the money into the bag.  Some fives, packaged with rubber bands, in the drawer, he holds up so Sal and all can see them... He laughs! 
SONNY Decoy money, right, it's marked! Shit! 
He throws it into the air so the bills flutter all around him, gaily... In the background, Mulvaney, having finished with the phone conversation, is moving to the rear with the rest of the girls.  Sonny now moves to the 3rd cage's cash drawer... Mulvaney ends phone conversation and Sal moves him over to group at vault. 
SONNY (mimicking Sylvia) 'This window is shut...' 
Again, the same procedure begins.  Sylvia unlocks the cash drawer and Sonny starts to scoop it out and put it into the opened plastic bag that Miriam holds. 
SAL Cheer up, you'll be the veteran of a robbery, the bank sends you a dozen red roses, you know that? 
At this point, THE PHONE BEGINS TO RING AGAIN (#2) 
SONNY (yelling to Sal) Sal, let him answer the goddamn phones, they're driving me crazy! Look at this chicken shit! 
Again, Mulvaney starts to cross back to his desk, again followed by Sal.  Sonny yells out to Mulvaney as he crosses to answer the phone. 
SONNY Hey, you, manager... Don't get any ideas, fucker... See that man there? I bark and he bites! 
MULVANEY Believe me, I'm on your side. 
SONNY My side, shit! 
They move to Drawer #4. 
SYLVIA Listen, we got young girls here... you could watch your language. 
SONNY I speak what I feel. 
MULVANEY ON THE PHONE 
MULVANEY Hello... I'm sorry I can't talk to you right now... I suggest you call during banking hours tomorrow.  What is your name? 
BACK ON SONNY, SYLVIA AND MIRIAM 
SONNY Gimme the traveler's checks and the register. 
They cross toward the last drawer area (#5).  Miriam is still crying silently.  Sonny holds out the plastic bag for the checks for her.  She drops it. 
SONNY Please... quit that.  It's not necessary. 
With everything in the bag, Sonny now takes the register and starts to move the two girls toward the rear near the vault. 
MULVANEY Can you hurry it up? 
BACK TO SONNY 
as he moves toward the rear (Sylvia and Miriam now re-joining other women), to get a wastebasket.  Accomplishing this, he starts to burn the pages of the register, tearing out pages as he does so.  It's smokey as hell, but not burning well. He drops it, smoking, into the wastebasket. 
SONNY (to Howard) Hey, you!  Give me the keys... We're gettin' outta here. 
HOWARD (gasping for breath) Huh? 
MULVANEY Howard? 
HOWARD Huh? 
ON HOWARD The old man is panicked, great patches of sweat spreading around his armpits. He breathes in asthmatic gasps; now he flinches at his name, as though he's been hit. 
MULVANEY (stands, receiver still to ear, then covering it with his hand) Howard, give him the keys... 
SONNY Gimme the keys to get outta here! 
SONNY ...Just give me time to think... 
PHONE STARTS TO RING (#5). 
MULVANEY We're all in the barrel together... 
Phone continues to ring.  Sonny finally grabs it (desk opposite Mulvaney). 
SONNY (into phone) All right, bastards!  You keep away from the bank or we start throwing bodies out the front door one at a time.  You got that? 
A startled apologetic man's voice speaks: Now ANOTHER PHONE BEGINS TO RING (#6). 
MAN'S VOICE (V.O.) I just called to ask Jenny what time she's gonna get off. 
SONNY Who's this? 
MAN (V.O.) It's her husband. 
Sonny abruptly holds the phone out from his body at arm's length, disgusted. 
SONNY Is there a Jenny here? 
Nobody moves.  They all stare at him.  Finally he singles her out. 
SONNY It's your husband. 
Jenny starts to move toward Sonny. 
JENNY What do I say? 
SONNY Tell him the truth!  Tell him whatever you tell him! 
OTHER PHONE CONTINUES TO RING (#6). 
As he puts down the phone for her to pick up, Sonny reaches for the other phone that is RINGING. 
SONNY What a fuckin' comedy! (into phone) WNEW plays all the hits. 
MORETTI (V.O.) Listen, first off, is anybody hurt in there? 
SONNY ...But you keep away from the bank or we start throwing bodies out the front door one at a time... You got it?  Okay? 
He hangs up the phone.  Sal looks at him. 
SAL You mean that? 
SONNY What? 
SAL ...The bodies out the door. 
SONNY I want him to think that. 
SAL But do you mean it? 
At this moment, Jenny, phone in hand, is turned to him, respectfully like a child in an authoritarian household, addressing her father: 
JENNY He wants to know what time you think you'll be through. 
ON SONNY 
stares at her.  For the first time, he realizes how frightened she is, how serious, grotesque, and funny it all is.  He takes the time to be tender with her, as though she were a not-too-bright child in the presence of a tragedy she'll never understand. 
SONNY Tell him I don't know. 
Now Sonny turns to speak to Mulvaney. 
SONNY Where's the back door? 
MULVANEY It's locked on the inside. (beat) It's through that passageway and to the right. 
Sonny disappears toward the back door.  Jenny continues her phone conversation. 
MAN (V.O.) Jenny? 
JENNY He says he doesn't know.  Why don't you cook whatever's there? 
MAN (V.O.) It looks like a whole roast. 
JENNY Honey, send out for Kentucky fried chicken.  The baby, just open a bottle of prunes, and one of the beef.  The bottles are in the fridge. 
MULVANEY (to Jenny) Hurry up! 
MAN (V.O.) I know how to fix the bottle.  They got guns? 
JENNY (with the baby on her mind) What guns? 
MAN (V.O.) The robbers in the bank.  They got guns? 
JENNY Yeah.  A lot of guns. 
MAN (V.O.) Well, stay away from them.  Don't get close. 
They are now unified.  Sonny whispers something to Sal. 
SONNY To show that we're negotiating. 
SAL All right... send them the guard. 
SONNY All right... let's go. 
Sylvia takes Howard by the arms and starts to lead him toward the front door.  Sal watches as they move toward front door. 
SAL Cover her, Sonny. 
Sonny moves with them toward the front door, his gun aimed at them during the walk. 
Finally they arrive, and Howard moves toward the door by himself.  But the door is obviously locked. 
SYLVIA He needs the keys. 
Sonny gives her the keys. 
SAL (from the rear) Only one, Sonny. 
Sonny covers Sylvia as she moves to unlock the front door for Howard. 
SYLVIA Go along, Howard. 
ANGLE OUTSIDE DOOR 
As Howard is pushed out the door by Sylvia, a cop from a nearby car rushes up to him and shoves him to a curbside car where he bends Howard over the car, putting his hands behind him for handcuffs and starts to frisk him. 
HOWARD'S POV - QUICK CUTS 
About 100 weapons ranging from machine guns to hand guns to sniper rifles are whipped up and pointed straight at his chest and head.  The effect is as though he is about to be blown entirely away. 
ANGLE ON THE BARBER SHOP 
Moretti rushes out, screaming to the cop with Howard. 
MORETTI Don't fire! 
THE RADIO NETWORK SCREAMS 
RADIO VOICES Did he say fire?  What fire?  Do we fire or what?  Who fired? (Etc.) 
VARIOUS COPS 
Confusion reigns.  They don't know if the perpetrator or not, since they haven't yet seen Sal or Sonny.  Guns  are up, aimed, being pushed down... Cops run for better vantage points. 
ANGLE ON HOWARD 
as Moretti reaches him.  He pulls the cop away from him and starts to give him hell for the rough treatment being given the guard. 
ANGLE IN DOOR OF BANK 
With Sylvia in doorway, staring wildly at the street scene. Sonny is beside her covering her with his rifle. 
SYLVIA My God!  That's Howard!  We voted to send him out! 
VARIOUS ANGLES 
as the cops slowly realize their mistake.  They stand back from Howard, who is virtually catatonic with fear and shock now.  They get him up, a reluctant to believe they could have made such a mistake... 
ANGLE ON TV CAMERAMAN 
Near barber shop, across the street, jockeying, trying to focus in on him, elbowing each other, they yell out: 
CAMERAMAN Hey!  Come out, get in the light. Hey, out where we can get a shot, huh?  Who's the black guy? (etc. AD LIBS) 
LOW ANGLE - HELICOPTER (TO AND FROM) 
swings in over street to try for a shot.  Howard is being taken in the direction of the barber shop. 
MORETTI 
to Cops. 
MORETTI Get him outta here! 
DOOR OF BANK 
Sonny back in the shadows with Sylvia, looking at Moretti, appalled. 
ON MORETTI 
Behind him a mob scene.  Howard is being led away, weeping. Photographers, cops, a phalanx of cops have their weapons levelled on Sonny like a firing squad.  It is right on the edge of violence... of blowing up.  Sonny and Sylvia are in the shelter of the doorway, Moretti stands on the sidewalk, looking toward Sonny inside the bank. 
MORETTI Sonny - come out here a minute. 
At this point, he removes his jacket and drops it to the ground, showing Sonny that he is unarmed. 
SONNY You got these cops outta here. They're comin' in too close. 
He hesitates in the doorway as the two women rush to the TV which is already on, the station showing live coverage of the bank robbery.  On SCREEN, Sonny can be seen ordering the cops around.  Moretti looks furious. 
ON THE TV SET 
VI (as the recognizes Sonny) Oh, My God in Heaven! 
TV NEWSMAN ...the robber, whose identity is not known, came out of the bank, with a hostage, Mrs. Sylvia Ball... 
FAT WOMAN (proud) Did I tell you?  He looks good! 
IMAGE OF SYLVIA ON TV 
VI What's he doin' this for?  He didn't tell me he needed money.  He would of told me. 
TV NEWSMAN ...Mrs. Ball, is everyone all right in the bank? 
HUSBAND Why rob a bank when you got a sucker for a mother? 
SYLVIA Oh, yeah, the one girl was cryin', but we're havin' a ball, so far, if just nobody shoots... 
VI Why didn't he tell me? 
NEWSMAN What about the man inside the bank? What is he doing? 
HUSBAND I just hope he gives the wrong name. 
He reaches for TV to turn it off.  Vi stops him. 
SYLVIA Sal?  He never talks, only goes: 'Sonny, you want me to shoot that one, this one.' 
HUSBAND Is that all there is -- that little bastard down there in the bank? 
TV NEWSMAN Mrs. Ball, do you think they might shoot, if they get desperate? 
VI You got money for the subway? 
SYLVIA Hey, wait, he's goin' back in. (she turns OUT OF PICTURE) 
FAT WOMAN Subway!  It's a special occasion -- take a cab, for God's sake! 
NEW IMAGE 
Sonny returning toward bank. 
EXT. BANK - DAY 
TWO SHOT - SONNY AND MORETTI 
as they shake hands.  As Sonny starts into the bank first, he holds the door open, waiting for Sylvia.  In the meantime, the 2nd-floor media man yells down to her. 
SYLVIA (looking up toward them) I gotta go now. 
MEDIA (2ND FLOOR) Hey, lady... you're out now.  Stay out! 
Sonny, waiting patiently, holds door open for her. 
SYLVIA They're my girls.  They need me in there. 
And she walks through the door past Sonny and into the bank. Moretti yells up at the media to get the hell away and at the same time, turns to a nearby cop and gives orders for the air conditioning to be turned off inside the bank. 
As the crowd realizes what has happened, they APPLAUD and SCREAM.  At the door: 
ANGLE IN BANK DOOR 
as Sonny turns to grin and wave back at crowd. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - DAY 
as Sonny and Sylvia walk into bank and head for the group at the rear.  Mulvaney is seated at his desk, but the rest of the girls are standing around the vault area. 
Sylvia heads for the girls as Sonny walks toward Sal. 
SYLVIA Hey, girls -- I was on television... 
MULVANEY (to passing Sonny) What about Howard? 
Sonny makes reassuring gesture to let him know Howard is safe. 
SONNY (to Mulvaney) Turn on the TV. 
Mulvaney turns on the TV set.  In the meantime, Sylvia has reached the other girls. 
GIRLS What happened? 
And Sylvia begins to recount the events out on the street, mainly about herself as a television celebrity. 
ANGLE ON TV SET 
as we see the image of a TV NEWSMAN across the street.  Then, as his director CUTS, we will see on the TV set an 
ANNOUNCER (V.O.) Ladies and gentlemen, our transmission has been temporarily interrupted. Please stand by. 
Sonny hangs up the phone, looks at Mulvaney, puzzled at the outcome of the conversation. 
SONNY Why the hell did he do that?  What the hell did I do? 
MULVANEY I guess he didn't appreciate your use of language.  They don't speak that way on television.  It's a rule. Do you realize you've cut off a valuable source of communication? 
Sonny now moves over to Sal. 
SONNY Okay, Sal... what do we do? 
SAL (no answer) 
SONNY I figure maybe we can get the FBI to make a deal... 
SAL What kind of a deal? 
SONNY Maybe we can get outta this thing alive... get 'em to drop the kidnapping charges... 
SAL What do you mean?  You talkin' about coppin a plea? 
SONNY (starts to speak, but Sal interrupts) 
SAL ...because if you're talking about coppin' a plea, I'm tellin' you right now, there's no deal... I'm never going back to prison... We got our own deal already... Do you remember the pact we made?  You and me and Jackie - that night in the bar... we were talkin' about if we get trapped in the bank, what are you gonna do... Right?  What did we say?  What did we say! 
SONNY We'd kill ourselves. 
SAL Does that still go? 
PHONE RINGS. 
SONNY We're not there yet. 
PHONE CONTINUES TO RING. 
Sonny now walks over to the ringing phone on Edna's desk. Jenny, sitting on top of the desk, thinks the call is from her husband, starts to reach for it but as she does, Sonny grabs it away from her. 
SONNY You're on the phone! 
1ST CRANK (V.O.) Kill them all.  Now. 
It's a heavy adhesive voice that can be heard clearly throughout the bank. 
SONNY Kill them all now?  You fuckin' creep! Don't call here again! 
Sonny slams down the receiver, looks around at the group. 
SONNY You see what we're dealing with? They want me to kill all of you! 
MULVANEY What now, Sonny? 
SONNY Wait a minute... I've been looking at this all wrong... Let's look at it the other way... 
He crosses over to Sal. 
SONNY Look, we gotta get a jet outta here... outta the country.  We gotta get a helicopter.  Okay, Sal?  We get a helicopter on the roof to take us to the jet and we fly to the sunny Caribbean.  Algeria.  We got to look at the bright side.  We got 'em by the balls, we got the hostages, we can get anything we want.  They gotta give it to us. 
Edna exits ladies room as Sonny crosses back to the phone, picks it up. 
SONNY (into phone) Get me Moretti. 
Now Sonny turns and speaks to the group. 
SONNY We're all gonna get outta here. You're all gonna be all right.  I'm gonna ask for a helicopter and a jet... and we're gonna get outta here alive... You've all been all right with me and as long as it stays that way, then things are gonna be all right - as long as you cooperate... (into phone) Moretti, I want to talk to you.  I'm comin' out. 
Sonny slams the phone down and walks over to Sal, rifle still in his hands. 
SONNY You realize, Sal, that we're gonna get outta the country, so if you wanna talk to somebody, do it now... You gotta Mother or a Father? Friends? (Sal nods no) If we gotta be outside the country, where do you wanna go?  Any country. Just name a country. 
SAL Wyoming. 
SONNY (stopped for a moment) Wyoming... That's not out of the country -- that's in the United States... Look, I'll be back. 
Sonny starts to walk toward the door.  As he does, Sal calls back to him. 
SAL Sonny!  Gimme the gun.  You don't need that. 
Sonny realizes what he's saying and crosses back to Sal and hands him the gun, then moves toward the front door. 
EXT. BANK - DAY 
Much as before.  Sonny steps out.  The guns start to come up. 
SONNY Put them down. 
The Cops lower their weapons.  Moretti comes out on the sidewalk.  He's eating an ice cream bar, and stands seemingly at ease, an island of calm control in a storm of passion about to be let loose.  The Cops are always about to explode. 
MORETTI Sonny, ya want somethin'? 
Sonny is about to open his mouth when a medium-size dark- haired Man who has been standing among people behind the barriers puts his head down and runs at astonishing speed right across the street towards Sonny.  He catches everybody so by surprise he is already on Sonny before anyone can do more than start to yell at him to stop.  Sonny, himself, can't believe it!  He is slammed to the ground and the Man begins to punch him and beat him viciously.  Cops charge in and with great difficulty pull him off. 
INT. HEIDI'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Chaos out of cut-rate furniture stores.  Full of unwashed glasses, kids' clutter.  Throughout, the children rush around unchecked.  Neighbors enter without ceremony and listen. The Cops stand, trying vainly to communicate... As they enter... 
HEIDI (continuing) And things are adding in my head, how crazy he's been acting, and in with a bad crowd, an' I look at him, he's yellin' at the kids like a madman.  So inna car I said to him, Sonny, what you gonna do with the gun?  You gonna shoot me and dump my body inna river or what?  I was so scared of him, I never been scared of Sonny never.  You know, his mother says the cops was always at our house, we was always fighting.  I hit him with the jack in the car once, but I only missed and hit myself, you should of seen my leg.  And all he would ever do is put on his coat and go out.  So they say it's Sonny but I don't believe it. 
COP 1 Lady, you saw him.  You saw his gun. 
HEIDI He might of done it, his body functions might of done it, but not he himself. 
INT. BANK - LATE AFTERNOON - APPROX. 5 PM 
The group is now situated like this: 
1) MULVANEY'S DESK - the TV is on; seated in his chair, filing her nails is MIRIAM. 
Seated to her left, having pulled the chair a patron uses, is MARIA, watching TV and listening to her transistor radio, against her left ear, at the same time. 
MULVANEY (at back water cooler - will eventually move back to his desk, sit down to Miriam's right.) 
2) EDNA - is now behind the Tellers' cages, straightening up the mess; she picks up the loose money that Sonny had scattered thru the air, puts them into packets and ties them with rubber bands. 
3) SAL - is seated in the rear Conference room, still holding his rifle, feet up on the table. 
4) MULVANEY & DEBORAH - at the rear water cooler (from which she will move to see what's wrong with Margaret) 
5) MARGARET - seated at her desk, obviously ill, wiping her forehead, head bowed. 
6) SYLVIA and JENNY - at far right table, doing a crossword puzzle. 
7) SONNY - pacing back and forth Mulvaney's desk, posing a legal puzzle for Maria. 
Sonny, his gun now lying across the top of Mulvaney's desk, is pacing back and forth between the desk areas.  He's talking to Maria in particular, but anyone in earshot in general. 
SONNY Let's say I put a gun to your head and I tell you to kill a cop...  and you did.  Who'd go to the electric chair... you or me? 
MARIA You would... you told me to do it. 
SONNY But you shot him. 
MIRIAM (joining in) But you told her to. 
SONNY Yeah - But you did it. 
Deborah crosses to Margaret who is ill.  Deborah goes to Sylvia - who returns with her her to Margaret. 
It should begin getting dark in through here.  It is very hot and sweaty in the bank.  OPEN SCENE ON: 
CLOSE MULVANEY ON PHONE 
He is sweating, worried.  He is listening to a conversation we can HEAR... as it goes on SHOT WIDENS to reveal the others in various postures of waiting.  Sal more disheveled, Sonny's restlessness is unabated; he paces about like a caged animal. The voice on the phone is breathy and youthful: Sonny has been listening for a long time. 
JESUS FREAK (V.O.) Jesus Christ is coming back and he's really pissed. 
SONNY (gently) Yeah, well I don't blame him. 
JESUS FREAK (V.O.) You know, Sonny, I used to dope a lot, and I was into dipping?  And I did a couple bank jobs, and the Lord Jesus in his everlasting mercy saved me, you know how? 
Sonny is desperate to get off the phone but doesn't dare risk the wrath of God by hanging up on this guy.  He might have the secret after all. 
SONNY No.  Look, we're kind of.... 
JESUS FREAK (V.O.) That's why I can talk to you, as an equal, Sonny.  You got to merge your whole soul with God.  And then you are Him and one with the Holy Ghost. 
SONNY Yeah, well... maybe you better talk to one of these others, okay? 
JESUS FREAK (V.O.) Sonny?  Don't send me away!  I can help you save your soul ... 
Sonny hangs up.  Deborah moves to Margaret, who is ill.  She goes to tell Sylvia who immediately crosses to Margaret. 
ANGLE ON MARGARET & SYLVIA 
SYLVIA The air conditioning is off or something. (Looks at Margaret) she's sick. 
Sonny runs around, notices her - sees that air conditioner is off. 
SONNY Where's the air conditioning? 
MULVANEY I don't know, Sonny... on the roof somewhere I guess. 
SONNY (improv. about going out back to find the air conditioning mechanism) Sonny moves toward Sal in the Conference room.  Mulvaney follows discreetly behind him. 
SONNY Sal, I'm gonna take a look at the air conditioning. 
Sonny and Mulvaney start to move out toward the back door area. 
SONNY (to Mulvaney) Do you think we can turn it on? 
MULVANEY I don't know. 
At this point, Sal calls out to Sonny, and gets up to move to him. 
The cops, safely distanced and back in cover, peek out at: 
BANK DOOR 
It is okay. 
RADIO NETWORK (V.O.) What's happening?  He shot through the door.  Is he coming out?  Can you see in... (Etc., etc.) 
ON MORETTI 
reaches out his hand for a bullhorn that is thrust into it immediately. 
MORETTI (on bullhorn) Sonny! 
A few louts in the crowd yell out in imitation: 
LOUTS Sonny! 
MORETTI Sonny! 
CROWD (echoing) Sonny! 
Moretti shrugs off his irritation and raises the bullhorn one more time: the crowd is ready and SCREAMS in unison as Moretti says: 
MORETTI & CROWD Sonny! 
You could hear it for a half a mile! 
Sonny starts to yell at Moretti. 
SONNY (inside bank) What the hell you doin' back there? 
MORETTI Sonny, come on out! 
Sonny walks over to Sal, gives him the rifle. 
SONNY Sal, watch 'em... I'm goin' out. 
ANGLE ON BANK 
as Sonny comes charging out. 
SONNY What the fuck do you want? 
MORETTI They were... 
SONNY You tryin' to fuck me? 
MORETTI No, I'm not tryin' to fuck you. 
SONNY So, what were they doin'?  You're tellin' me you had nothin' to do with that back there? 
MORETTI I swear to God I had nothing to do with it... 
SONNY Bullshit... I don't walk to talk to you... 
MORETTI Wait a minute... everything you asked for is on the way... 
SONNY Yeah... 
MORETTI Is on its way... The helicopter can't land but we got a bus... the jet's on its way to Kennedy... we got a bus coming here... 
SONNY You're full of shit... 
MORETTI Sonny, your wife's on the way...  We reached her... your wife's on the way... everything you asked for, you got. 
SONNY Well, what were you doin' back there? 
MORETTI It can't happen again... I'll do everything I can to stop anything I can... 
SONNY You know, you're telling me that a helicopter can't land here... 
MORETTI Can't land... you'd kill people... 
SONNY Don't fuck with me... 
MORETTI I'm not... I'm not... you're gettin' a bus... you're gettin' a bus... the jet's comin' into Kennedy... and your wife's on the way... what else do you need?  What else can I get you?  Listen, I don't know how you can do better...  see that man over there... the FBI guy... 
SONNY Just one more explosion like that and you're gonna see a dead body... 
MORETTI There won't be... there won't be... What else do you need?  How else can we help you? 
SONNY All right... I got some hungry people in there... I want to get some pizza... some stuff like that... 
MORETTI What else? 
SONNY Cokes, seven-ups... (Moretti repeats) also some aspirin... 
MORETTI Aspirins... okay you got it. (turns behind him to a near-by cop) Charlie!  Six pizzas! 
SONNY Okay... 
MORETTI So whatsa deal? 
COMMISSIONER They jet's comin' out.  But don't let 'em off the ground. 
MORETTI What if we gotta kill a whole lot of people? 
COMMISSIONER Don't let 'em off the ground. 
MORETTI Listen. 
He leans down to get close to his commissioner, because he's not fooled by the camaraderie into a false sense of security. 
TIGHTER TWO SHOT - MORETTI AND COMMISSIONER 
COMMISSIONER (anticipating) If you're right I'm gonna back you a hundred percent, you know that. 
MORETTI (pleasantly) Fuck you, sir - if I'm right, I don't need you.  What I want is - if I make an honest mistake I want help. 
The Commissioner nods - presses a button and the window goes up to keep the air conditioning in and the heat out. 
INT. BANK - LATE AFTERNOON - APPROX. 5 PM - MAIN BANK AREA 
as we hear Jenny on the phone with her husband.  Sonny is doing the manual of arms with his rifle. 
JENNY ...well, just pick him up and hold him.  No, he's not spoiled, he's just got to settle his stomach after eating.  He's used to me feeding me, that's all. 
At one point, Sonny starts to show Miriam how to hold the gun and in mock seriousness, she tries to do the manual of arms. 
WE DRIFT TOWARD THE BACK CONFERENCE ROOM 
where Sal is seated at the Conference table, rifle on the table.  Edna and Sylvia are also seated there.  Maria enters. 
SYLVIA Somebody give me a cigarette. 
Maria walks over to her, offering her one, then remembers: 
MARIA Sylvia, you don't smoke. 
SYLVIA I never smoked before in my life but I got a right to start now if I want to. 
SAL You don't smoke... why do you want to start now. 
SYLVIA Because I'm scared, that's why. You never smoked? 
SAL I used to, but I stopped. 
SYLVIA You stopped?  Why? 
SAL Because I don't want cancer. 
SYLVIA You don't want cancer?  You're about to get your head blown off, you're worried about cancer. (to Maria) Gimme the cigarette. 
Maria starts to hand one to her. 
SAL No!  I'm not kidding.  Don't you understand?  You're pure! 
SYLVIA Pure? 
SAL You shouldn't start now. 
SYLVIA For God's sake!  As soon as I'm outta this bank robbery, I'm gonna stop... okay? 
SAL Go ahead.  Do what you want to do. I hate to see you break a perfect record.  You oughta take care of your body. 
SYLVIA My body?  What for? 
SAL Your body is the temple of the Lord. 
SYLVIA (staring at him) You're serious! 
SAL You're really pure, you know?  You got a perfect record.  You never used that stuff to ruin your body, why start now? 
SYLVIA You know, you remind me of my 19- year-old brother - only he's got his hair down to his knees - he looks like something that eats berries and roots out of the ground.  God forbid I should say something to him like, 'Listen, if you ever smoke marijuana, just remember that it's illegal' and he storms outta the house.  You rob a bank, but you keep your body pure, is that it? 
SAL You gonna smoke the cigarette? 
SYLVIA Yes... 
Sal gets up and starts to leave the room... 
SYLVIA (calling to him) Sal... If I die of cancer it's going to be half your fault. 
Sylvia grabs the cigarette from Maria. 
SAL (exiting) No - it's because you're weak. 
Sonny continues with "Manual of Arms" business with rifle. Mulvaney is on the phone. 
MULVANEY (overlapping Janet into phone) Mulvaney... (listens) 
JANET (into phone) I don't know. 
SONNY Is he all right?  Is he all right? 
MORETTI (V.O.) He's all doped up. 
SONNY I want to talk to him. 
MORETTI (V.O.) He's groggy, Sonny.  Let me get him on his feet and he'll call you back. (hangs up) 
INT. BARBERSHOP 
as Moretti hangs up phone and walks over to Leon, who now has a glass of water and a cold towel. 
MORETTI Leon?  Whatsa matter?  They give you a shot down the hospital or what? 
LEON Oh, God, they shot me with like unreal! 
MORETTI Well, you got to get hold of yourself. You got to talk to him, tell him to give himself up. 
LEON Oh no! 
MORETTI He's got eight people in there with him.  He's got this kid with him... they're gonna shoot the people. 
LEON I can't help it.  I can't stop him from anything. 
MORETTI If he won't listen to you, who will he listen to? 
LEON He won't listen to anybody.  He's been very crazy all summer.  Since June he's been trying to kill me. 
MORETTI You try calling the police? 
LEON What good is that?  They couldn't stop him.  And it'd just make him mad.  They don't know him. 
MORETTI Somebody's got to stop him, Leon. 
LEON He was under great strain: you don't understand, he's a very mixed up person. 
MORETTI He's makin' threats in there. 
LEON He's scared.  It's crazy.  I never met anyone like him.  His wife, he's a wonderful father to his children. His mother - you should see her - his mother and father together are like a bad car wreck - he lets it all slide off his back, he sees them, he pays their rent.  Unbelievable. I wanted to get married... He didn't really want it... he's married already!  But he did it.  I don't know why.  I thought it would help me, but it didn't.  I was just as confused and unhappy was before; I did terrible things. 
MORETTI What kind of things, Leon? 
LEON Ten days I spent in Atlantic City - Sonny was frantic - he knew I was drinking; he didn't know where I was... who I was with.  I couldn't explain why I did the things I did. So I went to this psychiatrist who explained to me I was a woman in a man's body.  So Sonny right away wanted to get me money for a sex change operation: but where was he to get that?  2500 dollars!  My God, he's in hock up to his ears already. 
MORETTI He needed money?  For the operation for you? 
LEON It made him crazy - so much demand, he'd fly into this rages.  And I got more depressed than ever; I saw I'd never get the operation.  So I tried to take my life - I swallowed about a half pound of pills...  blues, reds, yellows, downers, uppers, screamers... you name it.  But I just threw them up and wound up in the hospital.  Sonny comes there and looks at me and just says: 'Wow!' So when I hear he's in the bank, I almost go crazy because I know he's doin' it for me. 
MORETTI Well, don't you figure you owe to him to get him out of there? 
LEON I can't talk to him. 
MORETTI You're in it up to your ass, Leon. You're an accessory.  You talk him out of there and they might be a little more understanding of your case. 
LEON I'm afraid. 
MORETTI How is he gonna hurt you on the telephone? 
LEON I don't know what to say to him.  I can't. 
MORETTI You think it over, Leon. 
Moretti walks over to the wall phone, picks up the receiver, and waits to be connected with the bank and Sonny. 
ON LEON 
Terrified.  He really can't do it. 
ON MORETTI 
waiting. 
OMITTED 
INT. BANK - TURNING DARK NOW 
as the phone rings.  Sonny picks it up, hears Moretti's voice. 
MORETTI (V.O.) He won't talk to you.  Let me work on it. 
Sonny hangs up.  He and Sal walk toward the group at the rear, around the desks. 
ANGLE ON TELEVISION SCREEN 
as we see TV newsman speaking. 
TV NEWSMAN ...police are questioning Leon, a year-old admitted homosexual, who claims to have been married to one of the bank robbers in a ceremony last November... [etc.]... 
During the speech, Sylvia and her group wander toward Mulvaney's desk to listen, as Edna wanders down from the Conference Room, crosses to the set and turns up the volume. 
ON SONNY 
Sonny rushes in.  The phone rings.  He picks it up. 
SONNY Hello.  Hello, Leon. 
LEON Hello, Sonny. 
SONNY How are you doing? 
LEON Well... I'm out of the hospital. 
SONNY (pleased) Yeah.  You said... I thought you were never getting out? 
LEON I never thought I'd get out this way.  I'll tell you. 
SONNY Well... huh... 
LEON Ooohh... 
SONNY Oh... huh... how you feeling? 
LEON I'm really shakey. 
SONNY Well, you know... Moretti told me before that you were drugged up. 
LEON Yeah.  It was terrible. 
SONNY That... huh... they just shoot you with drugs. 
LEON You come in and they say, right away, that you are crazy.  And they start putting things in your arm...  you know.  How do they expect you to get uncrazy if you're asleep all the time? 
SONNY Yeah... 
LEON You can't talk or do anything.  You really feel... you know... I'm just sort of coming out of it now. 
SONNY (pensive) So... that sure is something. 
LEON Yeah.  So how are you? 
SONNY (chuckling) Fine, thank you.  I'm in trouble. That is... now I am! 
LEON (chuckling) Yeah... I know. 
SONNY I don't know what I'm gonna do... you know.  Boy... I'm dying. 
LEON What?  What are you talking about? You are dying?  Did you ever listen to yourself when you say that? 
SONNY What are you talking about? 
LEON What do you mean... what am I talking about?  Do you realize that you say that to me every day of your life? I am dying.  Do you know... do you realize the death that you are spreading around to the people who are around you? 
SONNY Now don't give me that deep shit now.  Don't start with that shit. 
LEON No really... I don't think that you realize what it means.  The things that you do, Sonny.  You put a gun to somebody's head... 
SONNY I don't know what I'm doing. 
LEON (annoyed) Yeah... obviously you don't... when you put a gun to somebody's head... and you say go to sleep so that it won't hurt when I pull the trigger. Death?  Don't talk about death to me.  I have been living with death for the last six months.  Why do you think I'm in the hospital?  I take a handful of pills to get away from you.  And then here I am out of the hospital talking to you on the phone... again.  I have no friends left.  No job.  I can't live.  I have to live with people.  This death business... I'm sorry! 
SONNY I'm not on the phone to talk to you about that.  Well, I don't know what to say, Leon.  When you gimme that... when you hit me with that shit.  I mean, what am I supposed to say? 
LEON (indifferent to Sonny) I'm sorry... 
SONNY I told you.  That I got a lot of pressures.  You said to me that you needed money, and I knew that you needed money!  I saw you there lying in the hospital like that...  and I said... shit, man, I got to get this guy some money. 
LEON (excited) But I didn't ask you to go rob a bank. 
SONNY (getting louder) All right.  I know you didn't ask me.  You didn't ask me but I did it. 
LEON Well... 
SONNY I did it on my own.  I did this all on my own.  I ain't laying it on anybody.  Nothing on anybody.  I'll tell you something, though, it's about time that I squared away my accounts... you know.  I am squaring away my accounts with life.  Maybe this whole thing is gonna end, somehow.  Maybe it'll just end! Maybe I'll just close my eyes and the whole fucken thing will be over. That would be all right too!  I said... I thought I would square it away with you... you know?  That I would get you down here and that I would say so long to you... or, if you wanted... you know, to take a trip... 
LEON What trip? 
SONNY I'm getting out of here, man.  I'm not going to stay here and I'm not giving up.  I mean, huh, they're going to kill me, anyway.  So fuck it!  But, if I can get out of this... I am going to get out.  And, how I'm going to do it is to get a jet out of here and I'm flying the fuck out... That's all, Leon.  If you want to come with me, then you're entitled... you can come.  You're free to do what you want. 
LEON I'm free to do what I want?  And you think I would want to go with you some place on a plane?  Where? Where ya going? 
SONNY I gotta jet coming here and we're gonna try to get the fuck outta this thing.  And we're gonna go, man! 
LEON You're crazy. 
SONNY That's it. 
LEON You're really crazy. 
SONNY I know! 
LEON Where you gonna go? 
SONNY Who the fuck knows?  I think we're gonna go... we worked it out to Algeria.  So, I don't know.  So I'll go to Algeria. 
SONNY Do you still want the operation? 
LEON (moody) Yeah... yeah. 
SONNY Well, then... 
LEON It's my only chance! 
SONNY I don't know what to say to ya!  I guess I just wanted to say I'll see ya... or whatever. 
LEON Thank you much... and huh, bon voyage. 
SONNY Right.  See you sometime. 
LEON Yeah... see ya in my dreams, huh? 
SONNY Yeah... I'll write a song.  Ha, ha. I don't know.  Life is funny! 
LEON You said a mouthful... sweetheart! 
INT. BANK 
Sonny hangs up, walks back toward rear of bank and picks up receiver again on Edna's desk. 
SONNY (into phone) You cut off incoming, gimme a line. I want to talk to my wife, I want to say goodbye to my kids. (line is connected, he begins to dial; anguished; to the group) Here I am, I could call, and they'd put anybody on the phone, the Pope, an astronaut, the wisest of the wise and who do I have to call? (to phone; as she answers) Heidi? 
HEIDI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
The TV is on, the kids up and racing around, neighbors pouring beer -- An event! 
HEIDI (on phone; excited) Hey, Sonny!  I'm watchin' it on TV! 
ON SONNY 
SONNY What about the kids? 
ON HEIDI 
HEIDI They don't know, I sent them to the neighbors.  Sonny, Jesus, it's not like you.  I can't believe, because you never hurt anybody since the day I knew you. 
ON SONNY 
SONNY Heidi, I'm dying. 
ON HEIDI 
HEIDI (oblivious) I blame myself, Sonny.  I notice you been tense, like something is happening; the night before last you're yellin' at the kids like a madman, believe me.  And then you wanted me to go on this ride with the kids, this caterpillar about from here to there - fulla one-year- old kids.  It's ridiculous.  I'm not about to go on this ride, so you yell right there, 'You pig, get on the fuckin' ride!' Well, everything fell outta - me - my heart, my liver fell to the floor - you name it! Yellin' at me in front of all those people.  Because you never talked and I never been scared of you, never. I think: he's gonna shoot me and dump my body in the river. 
ON SONNY 
SONNY Heidi, for Christ sake, shut up! Will you shut your fucking mouth and listen?! 
ON HEIDI 
HEIDI (afraid) See?  You're screaming with the language and all!  A person can't communicate with you.  You become a stranger in your own home... 
ON SONNY 
he sits, dispiritedly listening to this rap: seeing her in a clear and unambiguous light as before he saw Leon: what a waste to live in the company of people like this! 
ON HEIDI 
HEIDI ...because you hurt me, God how you hurt me.  Can you imagine, marrying another man?  Did I do something to make you do that?  Did I ever turn you down, or anything?  The only thing I couldn't do, you're gonna laugh, is go on top - I got this fear of high places! (giggles) And I let myself get fat. 
ON SONNY 
SONNY Don't call yourself fat. 
ON HEIDI 
HEIDI I know you can't stand me to say I'm fat.  Like I can't stand you being a bank robber.  I guess that's what love is -- huh, Sonny? 
ON SONNY 
SONNY (weakly) Heidi - why didn't you come down here? 
ON HEIDI 
HEIDI Jesus - what - I'm afraid - I'm gonna get shot or whatever.  You oughta see it on TV, the guns, the cops, they got cannon, machine guns, they're loaded with gear. 
ON SONNY 
SONNY They're not after you, they're after me. 
ON HEIDI 
HEIDI Listen, it's late already when I realize it's not just a couple of ordinary faggots, it's just you and Sal.  I couldn't get a baby sitter. 
Heidi goes on and on, but Sonny just drops the phone on the hook.  As he walks toward the rear of the bank, Sylvia, seated atop Margaret's desk, gets off and follows Sonny toward the Conference room.  At the same time, Edna is lifting Margaret's feet up onto a chair and Jenny and Deborah start to walk toward the Conference room, too.  Maria paces back and forth, transistor to her ear. 
Sonny walks into the Conference room.  The doctor is through examining Mulvaney.  Miriam is seated across the table from him. 
Sonny walks back toward Sal, who is seated in Conference Room. 
SONNY Hey, Sal... How you doin'? 
SAL Okay. 
Sonny crosses back downstage again to Mulvaney and Sylvia. 
SONNY (referring to Sal) You know, I don't know him very well - but he's not gay... and he's not going back to prison...  One time when he was in prison, they gang- banged him; 13 years old and eight guys gave it to him...  So Sal isn't goin' back to prison, no way. 
MULVANEY I'm sorry. 
SONNY You know... I like you people... I really do. 
MULVANEY We like you, too. 
SONNY You know - I had a job once.  I used to work in a bank.  I had been training... I used to have a boss... Mr. Don Frio... he wore a toupee... I wonder if you'd hire me if I came in here and asked you for a job... 
MULVANEY Would I hire you? 
SONNY Yeah. 
MULVANEY Why not? 
SONNY (grinning) I don't think so. 
Sonny walks back toward Sal. 
SONNY I told you -- they're sending a jet. It's all worked out... 
But doubt hangs in the air like a pall... 
CLOSEUP - SAL 
looking at him.  Implacable.  This tension between them over the question of Sonny's loyalty must be kept constantly alive with CUTS and looks, over dialogue... 
SYLVIA & MULVANEY 
SYLVIA Somebody give me another cigarette. 
Sal turns to look at her reproachfully. 
ON SYLVIA 
SYLVIA I wish somebody would tell me I'm gonna live long enough for it to be a habit.  My parent, she'll be okay. My husband, he'll be okay.  I even know who the bum is gonna marry. Terrific.  She'll take good care of him. 
MULVANEY Girls, I wanta apologize.  For my language back there. 
Embarrassed, he walks toward the rest of group in the rear, stands by Edna's desk. 
MULVANEY Ladies... I want to apologize for my language back there. (he walks over to his desk, sits down) 
Sonny exits Conference Room and moves downstage. 
SYLVIA (amazed) What'd you say?  I didn't hear you say anything. 
They think for a moment. 
JENNY He said the 'F' word. 
They stare at her incredulously. 
Someone giggles. 
EDNA What? 
JENNY The 'F' word.  He did.  He said the 'F' word. 
Edna crosses to her desk - disgusted - and starts to tidy up. 
The giggle catches the edge of their panic and anxiety and sweeps them into uncontrollable giggles and laughter: Sonny roars.  Sal and Edna alone remain unsmiling.  After a few seconds they force themselves to stop, to behave like they should under the circumstances.  They are gasping and crying. Then... 
SONNY What's so funny? 
EDNA Well, I'm a Christian, and my ears are not garbage cans. 
It sets them off again.  They howl and giggle and laugh. 
Until at last they run down again.  At this point, Sal rushes out of Conference Room. 
SAL Who's that? 
He has seen something in the middle of the street, and now... 
NEW ANGLE 
as they all turn to look out through the door. 
THEIR POV 
Backlighted by the floodlights in the middle of street escorted by Sheldon, stands a figure, dumpy and gray, tentatively waving, a figure that bends over baby carriages in the park, picks beans one by one out of supermarket bins, lip reads get-well cards in pharmacies. 
Maria and Miriam are still dancing; Margaret is at her desk; Sal, Jenny and Deborah are in the Conference Room; Sylvia is still behind Tellers' Cages. 
SONNY Mister Mulvaney? 
MULVANEY Yeah? 
SONNY Are you a lawyer? 
MULVANEY No.  I had some legal training, but... 
SONNY I want to dictate my will.  I need a notary? 
SYLVIA I'm a notary. 
She leaves Tellers' Cages area, crosses to Sonny, grabbing a pen from Edna's desk on the way.  Sonny's urgent mood reaches them.  Sylvia gets note pad from Mulvaney.  Takes the dictation... 
SONNY Being of sound mind and body, and all that shit... 
Sylvia nods: got it. 
SONNY To my darling wife Leon whom I love as no other man has loved another man in all eternity, I leave $2,700 from my $10,000 life insurance policy, to be used for your sex change operation.  If there is money left over it is to go to you on the first anniversary of my death, at my grave. I expect you to be a real woman then, and your life full of happiness and joy.  To my sweet wife, Heidi, five thousand from the same policy.  You are the only woman I have ever loved, and I re-pledge my love to you in this sad moment, and to little Kimmy and Jimmy.  I hope you remember me, Jimmy.  You are the little man of the family now, and will have to look after them for me.  To my mother I ask forgiveness.  You don't understand the things I did and said, but I'm me, and I'm different.  I leave you, the rest of the policy and my stamp collection.  I want a military funeral and am entitled to one free of charge.  Life and love are not easy and we have to bend a lot.  I hope you find the places and the people to make you all happy as I could not.  God bless you and watch over you, as I shall, until we are joined in the hereafter, sweet Leon, my Heidi, dearest Kimmy and Jimmy, and my mother.  Sonny... here I'll spell the last name... 
He sits and writes it for Sylvia. 
SONNY Type that up and I'll sign it. 
Nobody says anything about this document.  What is there to say?  Sylvia walks to her desk at the front of the bank, near the window, and begins typing. 
EXT. BANK - VARIOUS ANGLES - NIGHT 
The restless crowd STIRS, sensing something happening. Turning to see something coming. 
APARTMENT FIRE ESCAPE 
The Cops gear up their weapons: radios CRACKLE.  Something, a vehicle, is moving through the crowd, Cops shoving people aside to let it through.  The Old Lady pays no attention. 
She is down to one of the very last pieces of the puzzle and is searching for the spot for it. 
LOW ANGLE IN CLEAR PLACE IN FRONT OF BANK 
as the vehicle clears the crowd and slowly draws up in front. 
It is a long airport limousine of the type with many doors. 
It stops.  Everyone's attention is on it.  A black DRIVER gets out, a gay Afro knit on his head, coke dealer's shades, for the cognoscenti, one very long little finger nail, a nifty Van Dyke style beard and one gold front tooth.  He looks around, holding a sheet of paper.  Sheldon, others, approach.  They are looking into the vehicles, opening doors, checking tires, etc. 
DOOR OF BANK 
Sonny appears.  He strides to the limo. 
SONNY Okay.  Get away from it. 
After a moment the Cops all move back.  Sonny opens the front door and begins to check it out.  The Driver starts to move away... 
SONNY These seats come out? 
DRIVER Yeah. 
INT. LIMO - CLOSE - SONNY AND DRIVER 
Together they remove the seat so Sonny can check for guns concealed below, etc.  Improvise to fit conditions of the car. 
DRIVER (dawning on him) Jesus, you're the man! 
SONNY Come on, what's under this? 
They pry up a seat and look under, etc., all through: 
DRIVER I was lookin' at it.  I saw you, man!  Jesus!  You oughta see yourself! You wouldn't believe it. 
SONNY Yes, I would. 
DRIVER God damn it, Sheila isn't gonna believe it.  They just call in and say gas up a stretchout and get it down to (address in Brooklyn) and I say, 'shit, another load of Elks for the massage parlors.' 
SONNY (finished) Okay. 
Driver stands up, getting a good look at Sonny. 
DRIVER Well, by God I'm gonna remember you! 
And he turns and walks away. 
Driver stops, uncertainly.  Cops grab him to hustle him away. Sheldon steps forward with a neat twenty-years-younger carbon copy of himself... 
SHELDON Here's your driver, this is agent Murphy. 
NEW ANGLE Sonny and Murphy.  Sonny eyes Murphy, thinks, then begins to frisk Murphy. He finds nothing. 
He stands up and eyes Murphy.  He just doesn't like it. 
SONNY I don't want him. 
SONNY You got Bank Americard? 
MULVANEY (tired) What now, Sonny? 
SONNY (gathers money from near-by money bag) Listen, I owe a couple hundred dollars!  I don't wanta leave owing anybody anything!  A clean slate, a new leaf... 
He plunks his card down before Sylvia. 
SONNY (continuing) I paying off. (money from attached case) Here.  Two hundred should do it. 
They start the action of filing the form and accepting the money... Sonny stops them... 
SONNY Just give me a receipt.  Hey, Sal, you okay? 
SAL (deep in his hair or tie or?) Okay, Sonny. 
SONNY All right. (accepts receipt) 
SYLVIA Here's your document, Sonny. 
SONNY Yeah - it looks real official. 
They are ready.  A moment in the dark.  Sonny holds out the will to Mulvaney. 
SONNY Hold it for me? 
Mulvaney takes it.  Sonny shakes his hand.  Suddenly, emotionally, he embraces Sylvia.  Suddenly they are all saying silent goodbyes.  Shaking hands all around, formally. 
Only Sal is left untouched, standing apart, watching them, in the dark. 
EXT. BANK - NIGHT 
Everyone waits in silence.  The lights.  The limo.  The Driver waiting in the driver's seat.  After a beat the door begins to open. 
VARIOUS ANGLES 
as Cops' guns are brought to bear.  On the apartment fire escape the Old Lady is asleep, her puzzle complete.  The snipers raise their rifles. 
FRONT OF BARBER SHOP - NIGHT 
Sheldon stands there.  The police radio network CRACKLES: "They're coming out.  Perpetrators and hostages together. Only authorized personnel may previously authorized, and etc."  Sheldon's eyes go to: 
HIS POV - SNIPER 
A middle-aged Man who looks like an overweight accountant, in flak vest and helmet that seems too small, aiming through a telescopic sight at: 
DOOR OF BANK 
SONNY (letting Murphy out first; yells outside) Get away from the car! 
Something that looks like a multi-legged animal emerges.  It is Sonny and Sal in the center of a tight group of the girls and Mulvaney, so they are completely protected on all sides by hostages.  Over their heads is thrown some drapes from the bank that further prevent the police from drawing a clear head on Sonny or Sal without hitting a girl.  In fact they can't be seen at all.  This weird apparition appears, hesitates.  The crowd YELLS: "SHOOT!"  CHOREOGRAPH THE ACTION so the group hesitates, takes a step forward, then it's clear Sonny can't see well enough to go direct to the car, and the girls are uncertain which direction to go in, not having been briefed.  So they stumble about, make false starts, and finally arrive at the car, where one girl gets into the second row of seats behind the Driver.  Then Sonny slides across next to Driver. 
VARIOUS ANGLES TO COVER 
The police have no chance to shoot.  The group looks like a bewildered centipede finding its way.  Mulvaney detaches himself from the group and slips into the front seat, on Sonny's right. 
ON EDNA 
standing alone, outside filled-up limo.  Sheldon walks over to Mulvaney's window. 
SONNY (to Sheldon) Okay - you got your one. 
SHELDON (to Murphy) You follow my car. (he moves off) 
Maria gets in the rear-most row of seats.  Sal next to her in the middle and then another girl.  One woman, Edna, a plain middle-aged woman who has not said a word until now is left over.  She stands by the side of the limo as the doors close and this phase of the operation ends, without mishap. 
SONNY (elated) Fuck!  We did it! 
SYLVIA (to Edna) Goodbye, honey.  Wish us luck! 
Edna pecks out dry little kisses to the nearest girls. 
ANGLE THROUGH SONNY'S DOOR WINDOW 
as Edna pecks... goodbye. 
SONNY I'll be a son of a bitch -- we're all okay!  Hey, man!  Honk the horn. Let's go! 
Sal has his gun pointed on back of Driver's head. 
MURPHY Hey, Sal - do me a favor... point that gun up, huh?  We hit a bump and the fuckin' gun'll go off. 
The Driver honks the HORN: they're ready.  The crowd SCREAMS. 
Cops keep jockeying for position, but there is no way to get a shot in. 
ON SHELDON 
No emotion.  He steps into his car, a police car pulls up behind, and the procession starts to pull slowly toward the crowd. 
ON EDNA AND BANK 
MARIA I pray for your safety... (meaning Sonny and Sal) ...Sal?  Because I know it's your first plane trip.  Don't be scared, you know? (gives him her rosary) 
And Maria walks away.  Now the plane has taxied into position, where it can be seen in floodlights.  It looks big and impressive.  We know the FBI has snipers ringing it. 
SONNY I ain't eaten all day.  I just realized it. 
SHELDON We'll have hamburgers on the plane. You ready? 
MURPHY (turns to Sal again) Sal, keep it up, huh?  The gun - please... 
CLOSE - SONNY 
looking at the plane, grasping his money and his gun.  The rifle stands straight up between his legs.  Sheldon leans down, peering in at him. 
SONNY What do you think, Sal?  You ready to go? 
ANGLE - SAL 
in front of Sonny, behind Mulvaney.  For the first time he smiles.  He realizes that escape is within their grasp.  The smile transforms him from a formidable Mafia imitation into an utterly sweet and defenseless youth. 
SAL (gun pointing high) Hey, Sonny - You did it! 
CLOSE - SONNY 
SONNY Let's move it, goddamn it. 
SHELDON (to Driver) You ready to get out first? 
DRIVER Yes. 
Driver starts to turn in the driver's seat! 
Sheldon brings up his hands to reach through the open window to grab Sonny's rifle barrel, pushes it away, aiming out windshield. 
Mulvaney sees them beginning their move and starts to duck. 
Sal begins to see movement out of the corner of his eyes and is barely beginning to react. 
DRIVER TURNING HAS A GUN OVER THE BACK OF THE SEAT! 
Sonny sees it, and Sheldon's hand grabbing the barrel of his gun at the same moment. 
Sheldon drives hard into the side of the limo, reaching in. 
Mulvaney grabs the girl next to him and pulls her by the hair down toward the floor. 
Sal, open-mouthed with amazement, is a split-second late bringing his gun up. 
Driver completes his turn and has his gun leveled at Sal between Miriam and Margaret in middle row. 
Sheldon grabs his rifle barrel and pulls hard.  Sonny lets it go. 
Sal stares at the gun barrel, trying to get his gun up... 
Driver FIRES. 
Mulvaney hits the floor. 
Sheldon holds Sonny's gun. 
Sonny, CLOSE, watches. 
Sal, hit, slams back into the seat; the gun flies upward. Another SHOT hits him, flinging his head back. 
Driver holds his third shot, turns to Sonny - holds gun to his temple. 
Sonny looks down so he can see fully as: 
Sal's head snaps back for a split second and stares directly into Sonny's eyes, upside down. 
He stares sadly, into Sonny's eyes.  As though he knew it all along -- betrayed. 
And dies. 
The SHOT is ECHOING.  Now SCREAMS, YELLS, SLAMMING doors, panic... Sonny's voice:  "Shoot me!  For God's sake, shoot me!" 
FULL SHOT 
They come pouring out of the limo, scrambling frantically away from it.  The limo -- the people fleeing it.  Agents pull people away from the car. 
Driver and Sheldon and Cops peer into the back.  Sal's body lies slumped. 
Driver, Sheldon, other Cops stand about, recovering.  No one makes the slightest sort of congratulatory move, it was just another job.  Driver clears his weapon, hands it to Sheldon to be filed in case of investigation. 
ON SYLVIA, MULVANEY, HOSTAGES 
They hug, cry, laugh, jump up and down: they're alive! 
SYLVIA (to Mulvaney) I been dying to do this for years! 
And she kisses him hard in the mouth.  He laughs and kisses back... 
