"DOUBLE INDEMNITY" 
Screenplay by 
Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler 
Based on the novel 
"Double Indemnity In Three Of A Kind" 
by 
James M. Cain 
CHARACTERS 
WALTER NEFF PHYLLIS DIETRICHSON BARTON KEYES LOLA DIETRICHSON MR. DIETRICHSON NINO ZACHETTI MR. NORTON MR. JACKSON SAM GORLOPIS 
SEQUENCE "A" 
FADE IN: 
A-1 LOS ANGELES - A DOWNTOWN INTERSECTION 
It is night, about two o'clock, very light traffic. 
At the left and in the immediate foreground a semaphore traffic signal stands at GO. Approaching it at about thirty miles per hour is a Dodge 1938 coupe. It is driven erratically and weaving a little, but not out of control. 
When the car is about forty feet away, the signal changes to STOP. Car makes no attempt to stop but comes on through. 
A-2 A LIGHT NEWSPAPER TRUCK 
is crossing the intersection at right angles. It swerves and skids to avoid the Dodge, which goes on as though nothing had happened. The truck stops with a panicky screech of tires. There is a large sign on the truck: "READ THE LOS ANGELES TIMES". The truck driver's infuriated face stares after the coupe. 
A-3 THE COUPE 
continues along the street, still weaving, then slows down and pulls over towards the curb in front of a tall office building. 
A-4 THE COUPE 
stops. The headlights are turned off. For a second nothing happens, then the car door opens slowly. A man eases himself out onto the sidewalk and stands a moment leaning on the open door to support himself. He's a tall man, about thirty- five years old. From the way he moves there seems to be something wrong with his left shoulder. 
He straightens up and painfully lowers his left hand into his jacket pocket. He leans into the car. He brings out a light-weight overcoat and drapes it across his shoulders. He shuts the car door and walks toward the building. 
A-5 ENTRANCE OF THE BUILDING 
Above the closed, double-plate glass doors is lettered: "PACIFIC BUILDING". To the left of entrance there is a drugstore, closed, dark except for a faint light in the back. The man comes stiffly up to the doors. (CAMERA HAS MOVED UP WITH HIM). He tries the doors. They are locked. He knocks on the glass. Inside, over his shoulder, the lobby of the building is visible: a side entrance to the drugstore on the left, in the rear a barber shop and cigar and magazine stand closed up for the night, and to the right two elevators. One elevator is open and its dome light falls across the dark lobby. 
The man knocks again. The night watchman sticks his head out of the elevator and looks toward entrance. He comes out with a newspaper in one hand and a half-eaten sandwich in the other. He finishes the sandwich on the way to the doors, looks out and recognizes the man outside, unlocks the door and pulls it open. 
NIGHT WATCHMAN Hello there, Mr. Neff. 
Neff walks in past him without answering. 
A-6 INT. LOBBY 
Neff is walking towards elevator. Night watchman looks after him, relocks door, follows to elevator. Neff enters elevator. 
A-7 ELEVATOR 
Neff stands leaning against wall. He is pale and haggard with pain, but deadpans as night watchman joins him. 
NIGHT WATCHMAN Working pretty late aren't you, Mr. Neff? 
NEFF (Tight-lipped) Late enough. 
NIGHT WATCHMAN You look kind of all in at that. 
NEFF I'm fine. Let's ride. 
Night watchman pulls lever, doors close and elevator rises. 
NIGHT WATCHMAN How's the insurance business, Mr. Neff? 
NEFF Okay. 
NIGHT WATCHMAN They wouldn't ever sell me any. They say I've got something loose in my heart. I say it's rheumatism. 
NEFF (Scarcely listening) Uh-huh. 
Night watchman looks around at him, turns away again and the elevator stops. 
NIGHT WATCHMAN (Surly) Twelve. 
The door opens. Across a small dark reception room a pair of frosted glass doors are lettered: PACIFIC ALL-RISK INSURANCE COMPANY - FOUNDED 1906 - MAIN OFFICE. There is a little light beyond the glass doors. 
Neff straightens up and walks heavily out of the elevator, across reception room to doors. He pushes them open. The night watchman stares after him morosely, works lever, elevator doors start to close. 
A-19 PHYLLIS 
PHYLLIS Is there anything I can do? 
A-20 NEFF 
NEFF The insurance ran out on the fifteenth. I'd hate to think of your getting a smashed fender or something while you're not fully covered. 
A-21 PHYLLIS 
She glances over her towel costume. 
PHYLLIS (With a little smile) Perhaps I know what you mean, Mr. Neff. I've just been taking a sun bath. 
A-22 NEFF 
NEFF No pigeons around, I hope... About those policies, Mrs. Dietrichson -- I hate to take up your time -- 
A-23 PHYLLIS 
PHYLLIS That's all right. If you can wait till I put something on, I'll be right down. Nettie, show Mr. Neff into the living room. 
She turns away as gracefully as one can with a towel for a wrapper.] 
A-24 ENTRANCE HALL 
Neff watches Phyllis out of sight. He speaks to the maid while still looking up. 
NEFF Where would the living room be? 
MAID In there, but they keep the liquor locked up. 
NEFF That's okay. I always carry my own keys. 
He goes through the archway. Maid goes off the other way. 
A-25 LIVING ROOM 
Neff comes into the room and throws his briefcase on the plush davenport and tosses his hat on top of it. He looks around the room, then moves over to a baby grand piano with a sleazy Spanish shawl dangling down one side and two cabinet photographs standing in a staggered position on top. Neff glances them over: Mr. Dietrichson, age about fifty-one, a big, blocky man with glasses and a Rotarian look about him; Lola Dietrichson, age nineteen, wearing a filmy party dress and a yearning look in her pretty eyes. Neff walks away from the piano and takes a few steps back and forth across the rug. His eyes fall on a wrinkled corner. He carefully straightens it out with his foot. His back is to the archway as he hears high heels clicking on the staircase. He turns and looks through the arch. 
NEFF'S VOICE The living room was still stuffy from last night's cigars. The windows were closed and the sunshine coming in through the Venetian blinds showed up the dust in the air. The furniture was kind of corny and old-fashioned, but it had a comfortable look, as if people really sat in it. On the piano, in couple of fancy frames, were Mr. Dietrichson and Lola, his daughter by his first wife They had a bowl of those little red goldfish on the table behind the davenport, but, to tell you the truth, Keyes, I wasn't a whole lot interested in goldfish right then, nor in auto renewals, nor in Mr. Dietrichson and his daughter Lola. I was thinking about that dame upstairs, and the way she had looked at me, and I wanted to see her again, close, without that silly staircase between us. 
A-26 STAIRCASE (FROM NEFF'S POINT OF VIEW) 
Phyllis Dietrichson is coming downstairs. First we see her feet, with pom-pom slippers and the gold anklet on her left ankle. CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY as she descends, until we see all of her. She is wearing a pale blue summer dress. 
PHYLLIS' VOICE I wasn't long, was I? 
NEFF'S VOICE Not at all, Mrs. Dietrichson. 
CAMERA PULLS BACK WITH HER INTO THE LIVING ROOM. 
PHYLLIS I hope I've got my face on straight. 
NEFF It's perfect for my money. 
PHYLLIS (Crossing to the mirror over the fireplace) Won't you sit down, Mr. -- Neff is the name, isn't it? 
NEFF With two f's, like in Philadelphia. If you know the story. 
PHYLLIS What story? 
NEFF The Philadelphia story. What are we talking about? 
PHYLLIS (She works with her lipstick) About the insurance. My husband never tells me anything. 
NEFF It's on your two cars, the La Salle and the Plymouth. 
He crosses to the davenport to get the policies from his briefcase. She turns away from the mirror and sits in a big chair with her legs drawn up sideways, the anklet now clearly visible. 
NEFF We've been handling this insurance for three years for Mr. Dietrichson... (His eyes have caught the anklet) That's a honey of an anklet you're wearing, Mrs. Dietrichson. 
Phyllis smiles faintly and covers the anklet with her dress. 
NEFF We'd hate to see the policies lapse. Of course, we give him thirty days. That's all we're allowed to give. 
PHYLLIS I guess he's been too busy down at Long Beach in the oil fields. 
NEFF Could I catch him home some evening for a few minutes? 
PHYLLIS I suppose so. But he's never home much before eight. 
NEFF That would be fine with me. 
PHYLLIS You're not connected with the Automobile Club, are you? 
NEFF No, the All-Risk, Mrs. Dietrichson. Why? 
PHYLLIS I guess so. I usually am. 
NEFF Same chair, same perfume, same anklet? 
PHYLLIS (Opening the door) I wonder if I know what you mean. 
NEFF I wonder if you wonder. 
He walks out. 
A-28 EXT. DIETRICHSON HOME - (DAY) 
Shooting past Neff's parked car towards the entrance door, which is just closing. Neff comes towards the car, swinging his briefcase. He opens the car door and looks back with a confident smile. 
NEFF'S VOICE (Over scene) She liked me. I could feel that. The way you feel when the cards are... 
A-29 ENTRANCE DOOR, DIETRICHSON HOME 
In the upper panel the peep window opens and Phyllis looks out after Neff. 
NEFF'S VOICE falling right for you, with a nice little pile of blue and yellow chips in the middle of the table. Only what I didn't know then was that I wasn't playing her. She was playing me -- with a deck of marked cards -- and the stakes weren't any blue and yellow chips. They were dynamite. I went back to the office that afternoon to see if I had any mail. It was the same afternoon you had that Sam Gorlopis on the carpet, that truck driver from Inglewood, remember, Keyes? 
A-30 NEFF 
He sits in his car, presses the starter button, looking back towards the little window in the entrance door. 
A-31 ENTRANCE DOOR 
The peep window is quickly closed from inside. 
A-32 STREET 
Neff makes a U-turn and drives back down the block. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A-33 LONG SHOT - INSURANCE OFFICE - TWELFTH FLOOR - (DAY) - CAMERA HIGH 
Activity on the eleventh floor below. Typewriters working, adding machines, filing clerks, secretaries, and so forth. Neff, wearing his hat and carrying his briefcase, enters from the vestibule. He walks towards his office. He passes a few salesmen, etc. There is an exchange of greetings. Just as he reaches his office a secretary comes out. She stops. 
SECRETARY Oh, Mr. Neff, Mr. Keyes wants to see you. He's been yelling for you all afternoon. 
NEFF Is he sore, or just frothing at the mouth a little? Here, park these for me, sweetheart. 
He hands her his hat and briefcase and continues right on, CAMERA WITH HIM, to a door lettered: 
BARTON KEYES - CLAIMS MANAGER 
Keyes' voice is heard inside, plenty loud. Neff grins as he opens the door and goes in. 
A-34 KEYES: OFFICE - (DAY) 
A minor executive office, not too tidy: large desk across one corner, good carpet, several chairs, filing cabinet against one wall, a dictaphone on the corner of the desk. 
Keyes is sitting behind the desk with his coat off but his hat on. A cigar is clamped in his mouth, ashes falling like snow down his vest, a gold chair and elk's tooth across it. On the other side of the desk sits Sam Gorlopis. He is a big, dumb bruiser, six feet three inches tall -- a dirty work shirt and corduroy pants, rough, untidy hair, broad face, small piggish eyes. He holds a sweat-soaked hat on his knee with a hairy hand. He is chewing gum rapidly. As Neff opens the door, Keyes is giving it to Gorlopis. 
KEYES Wise up, Gorlopis. You're not kidding anybody with that line of bull. You're in a jam and you know it. 
GORLOPIS Sez you. All I want is my money. 
KEYES Sez you. All you're gonna get is the cops. 
He sees Neff standing inside the door. 
KEYES Come in, Walter. This is Sam Gorlopis from Inglewood. 
NEFF Sure, I know Mr. Gorlopis. Wrote a policy on his truck. How are you, Mr. Gorlopis? 
GORLOPIS I ain't so good. My truck burned down. 
He looks cautiously sideways at Keyes. 
KEYES Yeah, he just planted his big foot on the starter and the whole thing blazed up in his face. 
GORLOPIS Yes, sir. 
KEYES And didn't even singe his eyebrows. 
GORLOPIS No sir. Look, mister. I got twenty- six hundred bucks tied up in that truck. I'm insured with this company and I want my money. 
KEYES You got a wife, Gorlopis? 
GORLOPIS Sure I got a wife. 
KEYES You got kids? 
GORLOPIS Two kids. 
A-35 EXT. OFFICES - TWELFTH FLOOR 
Neff comes out of Keys' office and walks back along the balcony. Activity of secretaries going in and out of doors, etc. Neff enters his own office. 
NEFF'S VOICE (Over scene) I really did, too, you old crab, always yelling your fat head off, always sore at everyone. But behind the cigar ashes on your vest I kind of knew you had a heart as big as a house... Back in my office there was a phone message from Mrs. Dietrichson about the renewals. She didn't want me to come tomorrow evening. She wanted me to come Thursday afternoon at three-thirty instead. I had a lot of stuff lined up for that Thursday afternoon, including a trip down to Santa Monica to see a couple of live prospects about some group insurance. But I kept thinking about Phyllis Dietrichson and the way that anklet of hers cut into her leg. 
A-36 INT. NEFF'S OFFICE 
Anderson, a salesman, sits at one of the desks, filling out a report. Neff enters, goes to his own desk. He looks down at some mail. On top there is a typewritten note. He reads it, sits down and leafs through his desk calendar. 
A-37 INSERT - CLOSEUP - CALENDAR PAGE 
Showing date: THURSDAY 23 May and five or six appointments penciled in tightly on the page. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A-38 DIETRICHSON HOME - ENTRANCE HALL - (DAY) 
THE CAMERA PANS with Phyllis Dietrichson's feet and ankles as she comes down the stairs, her high heels clicking on the tiles. The anklet glistens on her leg as she moves. THE CAMERA PANS ON. Phyllis has reached the entrance hall, and as she walks toward the front door her whole body becomes visible. She wears a gay print dress with a wide sash over her hips. She opens the door. Outside is Neff, wearing a sport coat, flannel slacks. He takes his hat off. 
PHYLLIS Hello, Mr. Neff. 
He stands there with a little smile. 
PHYLLIS Aren't you coming in? 
NEFF I'm considering it. 
He comes in. 
PHYLLIS I hope you didn't mind my changing the appointment. Last night wasn't so convenient. 
NEFF That's okay. I was working on my stamp collection. 
She leads him toward living room. 
A-39 DIETRICHSON LIVING ROOM 
Phyllis and Neff come through archway. She heads toward a low tea table which stands in front of the davenport, with tall glasses, ice cubes, lemon, a pot of tea, etc. 
PHYLLIS I was just fixing some iced tea. Would you like a glass? 
NEFF Unless you have a bottle of beer that's not working. 
PHYLLIS There might be some. I never know what's in the ice box. (Calls) Nettie!... 
She pours herself a glass of tea. 
PHYLLIS About those renewals, Mr. Neff. I talked to my husband about it. 
NEFF You did? 
PHYLLIS Yes. He'll renew with you he told me. In fact, I thought he'd be here this afternoon. 
NEFF But he's not? 
PHYLLIS No. 
NEFF That's terrible. 
PHYLLIS (Calls again, impatiently) Nettie!... Nettie!... Oh, I forgot, it's the maid's day off. 
NEFF Don't bother, Mrs. Dietrichson. I'd like some iced tea very much. 
PHYLLIS Lemon? Sugar? 
NEFF Fix it your way. 
She fixes him a glass of tea while he is looking around. He slowly sits down. 
NEFF Seeing it's the maid's day off maybe there's something I can do for you. 
She hands him the tea. 
NEFF Like running the vacuum cleaner. 
PHYLLIS Fresh. 
NEFF I used to peddle vacuum cleaners. Not much money but you learn a lot about life. 
PHYLLIS I didn't think you'd learned it from a correspondence course. 
NEFF Where did you pick up this tea drinking? You're not English, are you? 
PHYLLIS No. Californian. Born right here in Los Angeles. 
NEFF They say native Californians all come from Iowa. 
PHYLLIS What crown block? 
NEFF Only sometimes they have to have a little help. They can't quite make it on their own. 
PHYLLIS I don't know what you're talking about. 
NEFF Of course, it doesn't have to be a crown block. It can be a car backing over him, or he can fall out of an upstairs window. Any little thing like that, as long as it's a morgue job. 
PHYLLIS Are you crazy? 
NEFF Not that crazy. Goodbye, Mrs. Dietrichson. 
He picks up his hat. 
PHYLLIS What's the matter? 
NEFF Look, baby, you can't get away with it. 
PHYLLIS Get away with what? 
NEFF You want to knock him off, don't you, baby. 
PHYLLIS That's a horrible thing to say! 
NEFF Who'd you think I was, anyway? A guy that walks into a good-looking dame's front parlor and says "Good afternoon, I sell accident insurance on husbands. You got one that's been around too long? Somebody you'd like to turn into a little hard cash? Just give me a smile and I'll help you collect." Boy, what a dope I must look to you! 
PHYLLIS I think you're rotten. 
NEFF I think you're swell. So long as I'm not your husband. 
PHYLLIS Get out of here. 
NEFF You bet I will. You bet I'll get out of here, baby. But quick. 
He goes out. She looks after him. 
A-40 EXT. DIETRICHSON HOME - (DAY) 
Neff bangs the front door shut, walks quickly to his car and drives away. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
NEFF'S VOICE (Over scene) So I let her have it, straight between the eyes. She didn't fool me for a minute, not this time. I knew I had hold of a redhot poker and the time to drop it was before it burned my hand off. I stopped at a drive-in for a bottle of beer, the one I had wanted all along, only I wanted it worse now, to get rid of the sour taste of her iced tea, and everything that went with it. I didn't want to go back to the office, so I dropped by a bowling alley at Third and Western and rolled a few lines to get my mind thinking about something else for a while. 
A-41 DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT - (DAY) 
Shooting past Neff sitting behind the wheel of his car The car hop hangs a tray on the door and serves him a bottle of beer. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A-42 INT. BOWLING ALLEY 
Neff bowling. He rolls the ball with an effort at concentration, but his mind is not really on the game. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A-43 EXT. APARTMENT HOUSE - (DUSK) 
It is late afternoon. The apartment house is called the LOS OLIVOS APARTMENTS. It is a six-story building in the Normandie- Wilshire district, with a basement garage. THE CAMERA PANS UP the front of the building to the top floor windows, as a little rain starts to fall. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
NEFF'S VOICE (Continuing) I didn't feel like eating dinner when I left, and I didn't feel like a show, so I drove home, put the car away and went up to my apartment. 
A-44 INT. NEFF'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - (DUSK) 
It is a double apartment of conventional design, with kitchen, dinette, and bathroom, squarecut overstuffed borax furniture. Gas logs are lit in the imitation fireplace. Neff stands by the window with his coat off and his tie loose. Raindrops strike against the glass. He turns away impatiently, paces up and down past a caddy bag with golf clubs in it, pulls one out at random, makes a couple of short swings, throws the club on the couch, paces again. 
NEFF'S VOICE (Continuing) It had begun to rain outside and I watched it get dark and didn't even turn on the light. That didn't help me either. I was all twisted up inside, and I was still holding on to that red-hot poker. And right then it came over me that I hadn't walked out on anything at all, that the hook was too strong, that this wasn't the end between her and me. It was only the beginning. 
The doorbell rings. 
NEFF'S VOICE (Continuing) So at eight o'clock the bell would ring and I would know who it was without even having to think, as if it was the most natural thing in the world. 
Neff goes to the door and opens it. 
PHYLLIS Hello. 
Neff just looks at her. 
PHYLLIS You forgot your hat this afternoon. 
She has nothing in her hands but her bag. 
NEFF Did I? 
He looks down at her hands. 
PHYLLIS Bourbon is fine, Walter. 
He lets her go and moves toward the dinette. 
A-45 THE DINETTE AND KITCHEN 
It contains a small table and some chairs. A low glass-and- china cabinet is built between the dinette and kitchen, leaving a space like a doorway. The kitchen is the usual apartment house kitchen, with stove, ice-box, sink, etc. It is quite small. 
Neff goes to the ice-box and Phyllis drifts in after him. 
NEFF Soda? 
PHYLLIS Plain water, please. 
NEFF Get a couple of glasses, will you. 
He points at the china closet. He has taken a tray of ice cubes from the refrigerator and is holding it under the hot- water faucet. 
NEFF You know, about six months ago a guy slipped on the soap in his bathtub and knocked himself cold and drowned. Only he had accident insurance. So they had an autopsy and she didn't get away with it. 
Phyllis has the glasses now. She hands them to him. He dumps some ice cubes into the glasses. 
PHYLLIS Who didn't? 
NEFF His wife. 
He reaches for the whiskey bottle on top of the china closet. 
NEFF And there was another case where a guy was found shot and his wife said he was cleaning a gun and his stomach got in the way. All she collected was a three-to-ten stretch in Tehachapi. 
PHYLLIS Perhaps it was worth it to her. 
Neff hands her a glass. 
NEFF See if you can carry this as far as the living room. 
They move back toward the living room. 
A-46 LIVING ROOM 
Phyllis and Neff go toward the davenport. She is sipping her drink and looking around. 
PHYLLIS It's nice here, Walter. Who takes care of it for you? 
NEFF A colored woman comes in twice a week. 
PHYLLIS You get your own breakfast? 
NEFF Once in a while I squeeze a grapefruit. The rest I get at the corner drugstore. 
They sit on the davenport, fairly close together. 
PHYLLIS It sounds wonderful. Just strangers beside you. You don't know them. You don't hate them. You don't have to sit across the table and smile at him and that daughter of his every morning of your life. 
NEFF What daughter? Oh, that little girl on the piano. 
PHYLLIS Yes. Lola. She lives with us. He thinks a lot more of her than he does of me. 
NEFF Ever think of a divorce? 
PHYLLIS He wouldn't give me a divorce. 
NEFF I suppose because it would cost him money. 
PHYLLIS He hasn't got any money. Not since he went into the oil business. 
NEFF But he had when you married him? 
PHYLLIS Yes, he had. And I wanted a home. Why not? But that wasn't the only reason. I was his wife's nurse. She was sick for a long time. When she died, he was all broken up. I pitied him so. 
NEFF And now you hate him. 
PHYLLIS Yes, Walter. He's so mean to me. Every-time I buy a dress or a pair of shoes he yells his head off. He won't let me go anywhere. He keeps me shut up. He's always been mean to me. Even his life insurance all goes to that daughter of his. That Lola. 
NEFF Nothing for you at all, huh? 
PHYLLIS No. And nothing is just what I'm worth to him. 
NEFF So you lie awake in the dark and listen to him snore and get ideas. 
PHYLLIS Walter, I don't want to kill him. I never did. Not even when he gets drunk and slaps my face. 
NEFF Only sometimes you wish he was dead. 
PHYLLIS Perhaps I do. 
NEFF And you wish it was an accident, and you had that policy. For fifty thousand dollars. Is that it? 
END OF SEQUENCE "A" 
SEQUENCE "B" 
FADE IN: 
B-1 INT. NEFF'S OFFICE - (NIGHT) 
Neff sits slumped in his chair before the dictaphone. On the desk next to him stands a used record. The cylinder on the dictaphone is not turning. He is smoking a cigarette. He kills it then lifts the needle and slides off the record which is on the machine and stands it on end on the desk beside the other used record. He reaches down painfully to take another record from the rack beneath the dictaphone, looks at it against the light to make sure it has not been used, then slides it into place on the machine and resets the needle. He lifts the horn and resumes his dictation. 
NEFF The first thing we had to do was fix him up with that accident policy. I knew he wouldn't buy, but all I wanted was his signature on an application. So I had to make him sign without his knowing what he was signing. And I wanted a witness other than Phyllis to hear me give him a sales talk. I was trying to think with your brains, Keyes. I wanted all the answers ready for all the questions you were going to spring as soon as Dietrichson was dead. 
Neff takes a last drag on his cigarette and kills it by running it under the ledge of the dictaphone stand. He drops the stub on the floor and resumes. 
NEFF A couple of nights later I went to the house. Everything looked fine, except I didn't like the witness Phyllis had brought in. It was Dietrichson's daughter Lola, and it made me feel a little queer in the belly to have her right there in the room, playing Chinese checkers, as if nothing was going to happen. 
DISSOLVE: 
B-2 A BOARD OF CHINESE CHECKERS CAMERA WITHDRAWS AND GRADUALLY REVEALS THE DIETRICHSON LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
The checker-board is on the davenport between Phyllis and Lola. Mr. Dietrichson sits in a big easy chair. His coat and tie are over the back of the chair, and the evening paper is lying tumbled on the floor beside him. He is smoking a cigar with the band on it. He has a drink in front of him and several more inside him. In another chair sits Neff, his briefcase on the floor, leaning against his chair. He holds his rate book partly open, with a finger in it for a marker. He is going full swing. 
NEFF I suppose you realize, Mr. Dietrichson, that, not being an employee, you are not covered by the State Compensation Insurance Act. The only way you can protect yourself is by having a personal policy of your own. 
DIETRICHSON I know all about that. The next thing you'll tell me I need earthquake insurance and lightning insurance and hail insurance. 
Phyllis looks up from the checker-board and cuts in on the dialogue. Lola listens without much interest. 
PHYLLIS (To Dietrichson) If we bought all the insurance they can think up, we'd stay broke paying for it, wouldn't we, honey? 
DIETRICHSON What keeps us broke is you going out and buying five hats at a crack. Who needs a hat in California? 
NEFF I always say insurance is a lot like a hot water bottle. It looks kind of useless and silly hanging on the hook, but when you get that stomach ache in the middle of the night, it comes in mighty handy. 
DIETRICHSON Now you want to sell me a hot water bottle. 
NEFF Dollar for dollar, accident insurance is the cheapest coverage you can buy, Mr. Dietrichson. 
DIETRICHSON Maybe some other time, Mr. Neff. I had a tough day. 
NEFF Just as you say, Mr. Dietrichson. 
DIETRICHSON Suppose we just settle that automobile insurance tonight. 
NEFF Sure. All we need on that is for you to sign an application for renewal. 
Phyllis throws a quick glance at Neff. As she looks back she sees that Lola is staring down at her wrist watch. 
LOLA Phyllis, do you mind if we don't finish this game? It bores me stiff. 
PHYLLIS Got some thing better to do? 
LOLA Yes, I have. 
She gets up. 
LOLA (To Dietrichson) Father, is it all right if I run along now? 
DIETRICHSON Run along where? Who with? 
LOLA Just Anne. We're going roller skating. 
DIETRICHSON Anne who? 
LOLA Anne Matthews. 
PHYLLIS It's not that Nino Zachetti again? 
DIETRICHSON It better not be that Zachetti guy. If I ever catch you with that --- 
LOLA It's Anne Matthews, I told you. I also told you we're going roller skating. I'm meeting her at the corner of Vermont and Franklin -- the north- west corner, in case you're interested. And I'm late already. I hope that is all clear. Good night, Father. Good night, Phyllis. 
She starts to go. 
NEFF Good night, Miss Dietrichson. 
LOLA Oh, I'm sorry. Good night, Mr. -- 
NEFF Neff. 
LOLA Good night, Mr. Neff. 
PHYLLIS Now you're not going to take my car again. 
LOLA No thanks. I'd rather be dead. 
She goes out through the archway. 
NEFF'S VOICE (Continued) ...but we couldn't be seen together any more and I had told her never to call me from her house and never to call me at my office. So we had picked out a big market on Los Feliz. She was to be there buying stuff every day about eleven o'clock, and I could run into her there. Kind of accidentally on purpose. 
B-12 INT. MARKET 
Neff stops by the cashier's desk and buys a pack of cigarettes. As he is opening the pack he looks back casually beyond the turnstile into the rear part of the market. 
B-13 ROWS OF HIGH SHELVES IN MARKET 
The shelves are loaded with canned goods and other merchandise. Customers move around selecting articles and putting them in their baskets. Phyllis is seen among them, standing by the soap section. Her basket is partly filled. She wears a simple house dress, no hat, and has a large envelope pocketbook under her arm. 
B-14 INT. MARKET 
Neff has spotted Phyllis. Without haste he passes through the turnstile towards the back. 
B-15 THE SHELVES 
Phyllis is putting a can of cleaning powder into her basket. Neff enters the shot and moves along the shelves towards her, very slowly, pretending to inspect the goods. A customer passes and goes on out of scene. Phyllis and Neff are now very close. During the ensuing low-spoken dialogue, they continue to face the shelves, not looking at each other 
PHYLLIS Walter. 
NEFF Not so loud. 
PHYLLIS I wanted to talk to you, Walter. Ever since yesterday. 
NEFF Let me talk first. It's all set. The accident policy came through. I've got it in my pocket. I got his check too. I saw him down in the oil fields. He thought he was paying for the auto insurance. The check's just made out to the company. It could be for anything. But you have to send a check for the auto insurance, see. It's all right that way, because one of the cars is yours. 
PHYLLIS But listen, Walter --- 
NEFF Quick, open your bag. 
She hesitates, then opens it. Neff looks around quickly, slips the policy out of his pocket and drops it into her bag. She snaps the bag shut. 
NEFF Can you get into his safe deposit box? 
PHYLLIS Yes. We both have keys. 
NEFF Fine. But don't put the policy in there yet. I'll tell you when. And listen, you never touched it or even saw it, understand? 
PHYLLIS I'm not a fool. 
NEFF Okay. When is he taking the train? 
PHYLLIS Walter, that's just it. He isn't going. 
NEFF What? 
PHYLLIS That's what I've been trying to tell you. The trip is off. 
NEFF What's happened? 
He breaks off as a short, squatty woman, pushing a child in a walker, comes into sight and approaches. She stops beside Neff, who is pretending to read a label on a can. Phyllis puts a few cakes of soap into her basket. 
WOMAN (To Neff) Mister, could you reach me that can of coffee? (She points) That one up there. 
NEFF (Reaching up) This one? 
She nods. Neff reaches a can down from the high shelf and hands it to her. 
WOMAN I don't see why they always have to put what I want on the top shelf. 
She moves away with her coffee and her child. Out of the corner of his eye Neff watches her go. He moves closer to Phyllis again. 
NEFF Go ahead. I'm listening. 
PHYLLIS He had a fall down at the well. He broke his leg. It's in a cast. 
NEFF That knocks it on the head all right. 
PHYLLIS What do we do, Walter? 
NEFF Nothing. Just wait. 
PHYLLIS Wait for what? 
NEFF Until he can take a train. I told you it's got to be a train. 
PHYLLIS We can't wait. I can't go on like this. 
NEFF We're not going to grab a hammer and do it quick, just to get it over with. 
PHYLLIS There are other ways. 
NEFF Only we're not going to do it other ways. 
PHYLLIS But we can't leave it like this. What do you think would happen if he found out about this accident policy? 
NEFF Plenty. But not as bad as sitting in that death-house. 
B-20 NEFF - ON PHONE 
His eyes are on Keyes. He speaks into the phone as calmly as possible. 
NEFF I'm listening. Only make it short... Margie. 
B-21 PHYLLIS - ON PHONE 
PHYLLIS He's on crutches. The doctor says he can go if he's careful. The change will do him good. It's wonderful, Walter. Just the way you wanted it. Only with the crutches it's ever so much better, isn't it? 
B-22 NEFF'S OFFICE 
Neff on phone. 
NEFF One hundred percent better. Hold the line a minute. 
He covers the receiver with his hand and turns to Keyes, who is now standing at the window. 
NEFF Suppose I join you in your office, Keyes -- 
He makes a gesture as if expecting Keyes to leave. Keyes stays right where he is. 
KEYES I'll wait. Only tell Margie not to take all day. 
Neff looks at Keyes' back with a strained expression, then lifts the phone again. 
NEFF Go ahead. 
B-23 PHYLLIS, ON PHONE 
PHYLLIS It's the ten-fifteen from Glendale. I'm driving him. Is it still that same dark street? 
B-24 NEFF, ON PHONE 
He is still watching Keyes cautiously. 
NEFF Yeah -- sure. 
B-24A CLOSEUP - PHYLLIS - ON PHONE 
PHYLLIS The signal is three honks on the horn. Is there anything else? 
B-24B CLOSEUP NEFF, ON PHONE 
NEFF What color did you pick out? 
B-25 PHYLLIS, ON PHONE 
PHYLLIS Color? (She catches on) Oh, sure. The blue suit, Walter. Navy blue. And the cast on his left leg. 
B-26 NEFF, ON PHONE 
NEFF Navy blue. I like that fine. 
B-27 PHYLLIS, ON PHONE 
PHYLLIS This is it, Walter. I'm shaking like a leaf. But it's straight down the line now for both of us. I love you, Walter. Goodbye. 
B-28 NEFF'S OFFICE 
Neff on the phone. 
NEFF So long, Margie. 
He hangs up. His mouth is grim, but he forces a smile as Keyes turns. 
NEFF I'm sorry, Keyes. 
KEYES What's the matter? The dames chasing you again? Or still? Or is it none of my business? 
NEFF (With a sour smile) If I told you it was a customer -- 
KEYES Margie! I bet she drinks from the bottle. Why don't you settle down and get married, Walter? 
NEFF Why don't you, for instance? 
KEYES I almost did, once. A long time ago. 
Neff gets up from his desk. 
NEFF Look, Keyes, I've got a prospect to call on. 
Keyes drives right ahead. 
KEYES We even had the church all picked out, the dame and I. She had a white satin dress with flounces on it. And I was on my way to the jewelry store to buy the ring. Then suddenly that little man in here started working on me. 
He punches his stomach with his fist. 
B-37 EXT. DIETRICHSON HOME - (NIGHT) - LONG SHOT - NO TRAFFIC 
Some windows are lit. Neff comes into the shot and approaches cautiously. He looks around and then slides open the garage door. 
B-38 INT. GARAGE 
Neff closes the garage door. Very faint light comes in at a side window. He opens the rear door of the sedan, gets in and closes the door after him. The dark interior of the car has swallowed him up. 
NEFF'S VOICE Then I was in the garage. His car was backed in, just the way I told Phyllis to have it. It was so still I could hear the ticking of the clock on the dashboard. I kept thinking of the place we had picked out to do it, that dark street on the way to the station, and the three honks on the horn that were to be the signal... About ten minutes later they came down. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
B-39 EXT. DIETRICHSON HOUSE 
The front door has opened and Dietrichson is half-way down the steps. He is walking with crutches, wearing the dark blue suit and a hat. The cast is on his left leg. There is no shoe on his left foot. Only the white plaster shows. Phyllis comes after him, carrying his suitcase and his overcoat. She wears a camel's-hair coat and no hat. She catches up with him. 
PHYLLIS You all right, honey? I'll have the car out in a second. 
Dietrichson just grunts. She passes him to the garage, CAMERA WITH HER, and slides the door open. 
B-40 INT. GARAGE 
THE CAMERA IS VERY LOW INSIDE THE SEDAN, shooting slightly upwards from Neff's hiding place. The garage door has just been opened. Phyllis comes to the car, opens the rear door. She looks down, almost INTO THE CAMERA. A tight, cool smile flashes across her face. Then, very calmly, she puts the suitcase and overcoat in back on the seat (out of shot). She closes the door again. 
B-41 EXT. GARAGE 
Dietrichson stands watching Phyllis as she gets into the car and drives out to pick him up. She stops beside him and opens the right-hand door. Dietrichson climbs in with difficulty. She helps him, watching him closely. 
PHYLLIS Take it easy, honey. We've got lots of time. 
DIETRICHSON Just let me do it my own way. Grab that crutch. 
She takes one of the crutches from him. 
DIETRICHSON They ought to make these things so they fold up. 
For a moment, as he leans his hand on the back of the seat, there is danger that he may see Neff. He doesn't. He slides awkwardly into the seat and pulls the second crutch in after him. He closes the door. The car moves off. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
B-42 INT. CAR 
Phyllis driving and Dietrichson beside her, face TOWARDS THE CAMERA. Dietrichson has a partly smoked cigar between his teeth. They are in the middle of a conversation. 
DIETRICHSON Aw, stop squawkin' can't you, Phyllis? No man takes his wife along to a class reunion. That's what class reunions are for. 
PHYLLIS Mrs. Tucker went along with her husband last year, didn't she. 
DIETRICHSON Yeah, and what happened to her? She sat in the hotel lobby for four days straight. Never even saw the guy until we poured him back on the train. 
B-43 CLOSEUP ON NEFF'S FACE LOW DOWN IN THE CORNER BEHIND DIETRICHSON 
His face is partly covered by the edge of a traveling rug which he has pulled up over him. He looks up at Dietrichson and Phyllis in the front seat. 
PHYLLIS' VOICE All right, honey. Just so long as you have a good time. 
DIETRICHSON'S VOICE I won't do much dancing, I can tell you that. 
B-44 HEADS & SHOULDERS OF DIETRICHSON & PHYLLIS - AS SEEN BY NEFF 
PHYLLIS Remember what the doctor said. If you get careless you might end up with a shorter leg. 
DIETRICHSON So what? I could break the other one and match them up again. 
PHYLLIS It makes you feel pretty good to get away from me, doesn't it? 
B-45 PHYLLIS & DIETRICHSON - FACING CAMERA 
DIETRICHSON It's only for four days. I'll be back Monday at the latest. 
PHYLLIS Don't forget we're having the Hobeys for dinner on Monday. 
DIETRICHSON The Hobeys? We had them last. They owe us a dinner, don't they? 
PHYLLIS Maybe they do but I've already asked them for Monday. 
DIETRICHSON Well, I don't want to feed the Hobeys. 
B-46 CLOSEUP - PHYLLIS' FACE ONLY 
There is a look of tension in her eyes now. She glances around quickly. The car has reached the dark street Neff and she picked out. 
DIETRICHSON'S VOICE And I don't want to eat at their house either. The food you get there, and that rope he hands out for cigars. Call it off, can't you? 
Phyllis does not answer. She doesn't even breathe. Her hand goes down on the horn button. She honks three times. 
DIETRICHSON'S VOICE What are you doing that for? What the -- 
PORTER Yes, sir. 
NEFF I'm going back to the observation car for a smoke. 
PORTER This way, sir. Three cars back. 
He holds the vestibule door open. Neff hobbles through. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
B-55 INT. PULLMAN CAR - DIM 
Most of the berths are made up. As Neff hobbles along, another porter and some passengers make way for the crippled man solicitously. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
B-56 PLATFORM BETWEEN TWO CARS - VERY DIM 
The train conductor meets Neff and opens the door for him. Neff hobbles on through. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
B-57 INT. PARLOR CAR - MOVING TRAIN 
Four or five passengers are reading or writing. As Neff comes through on his crutches they pull in their feet to make room for him. One old lady, seeing that he is headed for the observation platform, opens the door for him. He thanks her with a nod and hobbles through. 
B-58 OBSERVATION PLATFORM 
Dark except for a little light coming from inside the parlor car. The train is going at about fifteen miles an hour between Glendale and Burbank. Neff has come out and hobbled to the railing. He stands looking back along the rails. SUDDENLY A MAN'S VOICE speaks from behind him. 
MAN'S VOICE Can I pull a chair out for you? 
Neff looks around. He sees a man sitting in the corner smoking a hand-rolled cigarette. He is about fifty-five years old, with white hair, and a broad-brimmed Stetson hat. He looks like a small town lawyer or maybe a mining man. Neff does not like the man's presence there very much. He turns to him just enough to answer. 
NEFF No thanks, I'd rather stand. 
MAN You going far? 
NEFF Palo Alto. 
MAN My name's Jackson. I'm going all the way to Medford. Medford, Oregon. Had a broken arm myself once. 
NEFF Uh-huh. 
JACKSON That darn cast sure itches something fierce, don't it? I thought I'd go crazy with mine. 
Neff stands silent. His mind is feverishly thinking of how to get rid of Jackson. 
JACKSON Palo Alto's a nice little town. You a Stanford man? 
NEFF Used to be. 
He starts patting his pockets as if looking for something. 
JACKSON I bet you left something behind. I always do. 
NEFF My cigar case. Must have left it in my overcoat back in the section. 
Jackson takes out a small bag of tobacco and a packet of cigarette papers. 
JACKSON Care to roll yourself a cigarette, Mr. --? 
NEFF Dietrichson. Thanks. I really prefer cigars. (Looking around) Maybe the porter -- 
JACKSON I could get your cigars for you. Be glad to, Mr. Dietrichson. 
NEFF That's darn nice of you. It's car nine, section eleven. If you're sure it's not too much trouble. 
JACKSON Car nine, section eleven. A pleasure. 
He rises and exits into the parlor car. Neff turns slowly and watches Jackson go back through the car. Then he moves to one side of the platform and looks ahead along the track to orientate himself. He gives one last glance back into the parlor car to make sure no one is watching him. He slips the crutches from under his arms and stands on both feet. He drops the crutches off the train onto the tracks, then quickly swings his body over the rail. 
B-59 EXT. MOVING OBSERVATION CAR - CAMERA FOLLOWING 
Neff is hanging onto the railing. He looks down, then lets go and drops to the right-of-way. THE CAMERA STOPS. The train recedes slowly into the night. Neff has fallen on the tracks. He picks himself up, rubs one knee and looks back along the line of the tracks and off to one side. 
B-60 DARK LANDSCAPE - RAILROAD TRACKS 
Close beyond the edge of the right-of-way, the silhouette of a dump shows up. Beside it looms the dark bulk of the Dietrichson sedan. The headlights blink twice and go out. 
B-61 NEFF 
He starts running towards the car. He runs a little awkwardly because of the improvised cast on his left foot. 
B-62 CAR IN THE DARK 
The front door opens and Phyllis steps out. She closes the door and looks in the direction of the tracks. The uneven steps of Neff running towards her are heard. She opens the back door of the car and leans in. She pulls the rug off the corpse (which is not visible) and stands looking into the car, unable to take her eyes off what she sees, while at the same time her hands mechanically begin to fold the rug. The running steps grow louder and Neff comes into the SHOT breathing hard. He reaches her. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
B-72 B-73 INSERTS 
Telephone bell box and the door bell. The cards are still in position. Neff's hand takes them out. 
NEFF'S VOICE (Cont'd) In the apartment I checked the bells. The cards hadn't moved. No calls. No visitors. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
B-74 LIVING ROOM - NEFF'S APT. NIGHT - ELECTRIC LIGHTS ON 
Neff comes from the bedroom, wearing the light grey suit he wore before the murder, only with out a tie. He buttons his jacket, looks around the room, and opens the corridor door. 
NEFF'S VOICE I changed the blue suit. There was one last thing to do. I wanted the garage man to see me again. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
B-75 BASEMENT GARAGE - (NIGHT) 
Fifteen or twenty cars are parked now. Charlie, the attendant has washed Neff's car and is now polishing the glass and metal work. Neff comes from the elevator. Charlie sees him. He straightens up. 
CHARLIE You going to need it after all, Mr. Neff? I'm about through. 
NEFF It's okay, Charlie. Just walking down to the drug store for something to eat. Been working upstairs all evening. My stomach's getting sore at me. 
He walks up the ramp towards the garage entrance. 
B-76 STREET OUTSIDE APT. HOUSE - (NIGHT) - SHOOTING TOWARDS GARAGE ENTRANCE 
Neff comes out at the top of the ramp and starts to walk down the street, not too fast. CAMERA PRECEDES HIM. He walks about ten or fifteen yards. At first his steps sound hard and distinct on the sidewalk and echo in the deserted street. But slowly, as he goes on, they fade into utter silence. He walks a few feet without sound, then becomes aware of the silence. He stops rigidly and looks back. CAMERA STOPS WITH HIM. He stands like that for a moment, then turns toward the CAMERA again. There is a look of horror on his face now. He walks on, CAMERA AHEAD OF HIM again. Still his steps make no sound. 
NEFF'S VOICE That was all there was to it. Nothing had slipped, nothing had been overlooked, there was nothing to give us away. And yet, Keyes, as I was walking down the street to the drug store, suddenly it came over me that everything would go wrong. It sounds crazy, Keyes, but it's true, so help me: I couldn't hear my own footsteps. It was the walk of a dead man. 
FADE OUT: 
END OF SEQUENCE "B" 
SEQUENCE "C" 
FADE IN: 
C-1 NEFF'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
Neff sits before the dictaphone. There are four cylinders on end on the desk next to him. He gets up from the swivel chair with great effort and stands a moment unsteadily. The wound in his shoulder is paining him. He is very weak as he slowly crosses to the water cooler. He takes the blood stained handkerchief from inside his shirt and soaks it with fresh water. 
The office door opens behind him. He turns, hiding the handkerchief behind his back. In the doorway stands the colored man who has been cleaning up downstairs. He is carrying his big trash box by a rope handle. 
COLORED MAN Didn't know anybody was here, Mr. Neff. We ain't cleaned your office yet. 
NEFF Let it go tonight. I'm busy. 
COLORED MAN Whatever you say, Mr. Neff. 
He closes the door slowly, staring at Neff with an uneasy expression. Neff puts the soaked handkerchief back on his wounded shoulder, then walks heavily over to his swivel chair and lowers himself into it. He takes the dictaphone horn and speaks into it again. 
NEFF That was the longest night I ever lived through, Keyes, and the next day was worse, when the story broke in the papers, and they were talking about it at the office, and the day after that when you started digging into it. I kept my hands in my pockets because I thought they were shaking, and I put on dark glasses so people couldn't see my eyes, and then I took them off again so people wouldn't get to wondering why I wore them. I was trying to hold myself together, but I could feel my nerves pulling me to pieces.... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
C-2 INSURANCE OFFICE - TWELFTH FLOOR - DAY 
Neff comes through the reception room doors with his hat on and his briefcase under his arm. He walks towards his office, but half way there he runs into Keyes. Keyes is wearing his vest and hat, no coat. He is carrying a file of papers and smoking a cigar. 
KEYES Come on, Walter. The big boss wants to see us. 
NEFF Okay. 
He turns and walks beside Keyes, CAMERA AHEAD of them 
NEFF That Dietrichson case? 
KEYES Must be. 
NEFF Anything wrong? 
KEYES The guy's dead, we had him insured and it's going to cost us money. That's always wrong. 
He stops by a majolica jar full of sand and takes a pencil from his vest. He stands over the jar extinguishing his cigar carefully so as not to damage it. 
NEFF What have you got so far? 
KEYES Autopsy report. No heart failure, no apoplexy, no predisposing medical cause of any kind. He died of a broken neck. 
NEFF When is the inquest? 
KEYES They had it this morning. His wife and daughter made the identification. The train people and some passengers told how he went through to the observation car.. It was all over in forty-five minutes. Verdict, accidental death. 
The door bell rings. 
Neff stops in sudden alarm. It can't be Phyllis. The time is too short. For a second he stands there motionless, then crosses to the door and opens it. 
In the open door stands Keyes. 
NEFF Hello, Keyes. 
Keyes walks past him into the room. His hands are clasped behind his back. There is a strange, absent-minded look in his eyes. Neff closes the door without taking his eyes off Keyes. 
NEFF What's on your mind? 
Keyes stops in the middle of the room and turns. 
KEYES That broken leg. The guy broke his leg. 
NEFF What are you talking about? 
KEYES Talking about Dietrichson. He had accident insurance, didn't he? Then he broke his leg, didn't he? 
NEFF So what? 
KEYES And he didn't put in a claim. Why didn't he put in a claim? Why? 
NEFF What the dickens are you driving at? 
KEYES Walter. There's something wrong. I ate dinner two hours ago. It stuck half way. 
He prods his stomach with his thumb. 
KEYES The little man is acting up again. Because there's something wrong with that Dietrichson case. 
NEFF Because he didn't put in a claim? Maybe he just didn't have time. 
KEYES Oh maybe he just didn't know he was insured. 
He has stopped in front of Neff. They look at each other for a tense moment. Neff hardly breathes. 
Keyes shakes his head suddenly. 
KEYES No. That couldn't be it. You delivered the policy to him personally, didn't you, Walter? And you got his check. 
NEFF (Stiff-lipped, but his voice is as well under control as he can manage) Sure, I did. 
Keyes prods his stomach again. 
KEYES Got any bicarbonate of soda? 
NEFF No I haven't. 
Keyes resumes his pacing. 
KEYES Listen, Walter. I've been living with this little man for twenty-six years. He's never failed me yet. There's got to be something wrong. 
NEFF Maybe Norton was right. Maybe it was suicide, Keyes. 
KEYES No. Not suicide. (Pause) But not accident either. 
NEFF What else? 
There is another longer pause, agonizing for Neff. Finally Keyes continues: 
KEYES Look. A man takes out an accident policy that is worth a hundred thousand dollars if he is killed on a train. Then, two weeks later, he is killed on a train. And not in a train accident, mind you, but falling off some silly observation car. Do you know what the mathematical probability of that is, Walter? One out of I don't know how many billions. And add to that the broken leg. It just can't be the way it looks, Walter. Something has been worked on us. 
NEFF Such as what? 
Keyes doesn't answer. He goes on pacing up and down. Finally Neff can't stand the silence any longer. 
NEFF Murder? 
KEYES (Prods stomach again) Don't you have any peppermint or anything? 
NEFF I'm sorry. (Pause) Who do you suspect? 
KEYES Maybe I like to make things easy for myself. But I always tend to suspect the beneficiary. 
NEFF The wife? 
KEYES Yeah. That wide-eyed dame that didn't know anything about anything. 
NEFF You're crazy, Keyes. She wasn't even on the train. 
KEYES I know she wasn't, Walter. I don't claim to know how it was worked, or who worked it, but I know that it was worked. 
He crosses to the corridor door. 
KEYES I've got to get to a drug store. It feels like a hunk of concrete inside me. 
LOLA Could I talk to you, just for a few minutes? Somewhere where we can be alone? 
NEFF Sure. Come on into my office. 
He pushes the swing door open and holds it for her. As she passes in front of him his eyes narrow in uneasy speculation. 
D-2 TWELFTH FLOOR - BALCONY 
Neff comes up level with Lola and leads her towards his office, CAMERA WITH THEM. 
NEFF Is it something to do with -- what happened? 
LOLA Yes, Mr. Neff. It's about my father's death. 
NEFF I'm terribly sorry, Miss Dietrichson. 
He opens the door of his office and holds it for her. She enters. 
D-3 INT. NEFF'S OFFICE - (DAY) 
Lou Schwartz, one of the other salesmen, is working at his desk. Lola enters, Neff after her. 
NEFF (To Schwartz) Lou, do you mind if I use the office alone for a few minutes? 
SCHWARTZ It's all yours, Walter. 
He gets up and goes out. Lola has walked over to the window and is looking out so Schwartz won't stare at her. Neff places a chair beside his desk. 
NEFF Won't you sit down? 
At the sound of the closing door she turns and speaks with a catch in her voice. 
LOLA Mr. Neff, I can't help it, but I have such a strange feeling that there is something queer about my father's death. 
NEFF Queer? Queer in what way? 
LOLA I don't know why I should be bothering you with my troubles, except that you knew my father and knew about the insurance he took out. And you were so nice to me that evening in your car. 
NEFF Sure. We got along fine, didn't we. 
He sits down. His face is grim and watchful. 
LOLA Look at me, Mr. Neff. I'm not crazy. I'm not hysterical. I'm not even crying. But I have the awful feeling that something is wrong, and I had the same feeling once before -- when my mother died. 
NEFF When your mother died? 
LOLA We were up at Lake Arrowhead. That was six years ago. We had a cabin there. It was winter and very cold and my mother was very sick with pneumonia. She had a nurse with her. There were just the three of us in the cabin. One night I got up and went into my mother's room. She was delirious with fever. All the bed covers were on the floor and the windows were wide open. The nurse wasn't in the room. I ran and covered my mother up as quickly as I could. Just then I heard a door open behind me. The nurse stood there. She didn't say a word, but there was a look in her eyes I'll never forget. Two days later my mother was dead. (Pause) Do you know who that nurse was? 
Neff stares at her tensely. He knows only too well who the nurse was. 
NEFF No. Who? 
LOLA Phyllis. I tried to tell my father, but I was just a kid then and he wouldn't listen to me. Six months later she married him and I kind of talked myself out of the idea that she could have done anything like that. But now it's all back again, now that something has happened to my father, too. 
NEFF You're not making sense, Miss Dietrichson. Your father fell off a train. 
LOLA Yes, and two days before he fell off that train what was Phyllis doing? She was in her room in front of a mirror, with a black hat on, and she was pinning a black veil to it, as if she couldn't wait to see how she would look in mourning. 
NEFF Look. You've had a pretty bad shock. Aren't you just imagining all this? 
LOLA I caught her eyes in the mirror, and they had that look in them they had before my mother died. That same look. 
NEFF You don't like your step-mother, do you? Isn't it just because she is your step-mother? 
LOLA I loathe her. Because she did it. She did it for the money. Only you're not going to pay her, are you, Mr. Neff? She's not going to get away with it this time. I'm going to speak up. I'm going to tell everything I know. 
NEFF You'd better be careful, saying things like that. 
LOLA I'm not afraid. You'll see. 
She turns again to the window so he won't see that she is crying. Neff gets up and goes to her. 
LOLA I'm sorry. I didn't mean to act like this. 
NEFF All this that you've been telling me -- who else have you told? 
LOLA No one. 
NEFF How about your step-mother? 
LOLA Of course not. I'm not living in the house any more. I moved out. 
NEFF And you didn't tell that boy-friend of yours? Zachetti. 
LOLA I'm not seeing him any more. We had a fight. 
NEFF Where are you living then? 
JACKSON Are these photographs of the late Mr. Dietrichson? 
KEYES Yes. 
JACKSON Then my answer is no. 
KEYES What do you mean no? 
JACKSON I mean this is not the man that was on the train. 
KEYES Will you swear to that? 
JACKSON I'm a Medford man. Medford, Oregon. And if I say it, I mean it, and if I mean it, of course I'll swear it. 
KEYES Thank you. 
Keyes turns to Neff. 
KEYES There you are, Walter. There's your proof. 
Keyes remembers he forgot to introduce Jackson. 
KEYES Oh, Mr. Jackson, this is Mr. Neff, one of our salesmen. 
JACKSON Please to meet you, Mr. Neff. Pleased indeed. 
NEFF How do you do. 
JACKSON Very fine, thank you. Never was better. 
KEYES Mr. Jackson, how would you describe the man you saw on that observation platform? 
JACKSON Well, I'm pretty sure he was a younger man, about ten or fifteen years younger than the man in these photographs. 
KEYES Dietrichson was about fifty, wasn't he, Walter? 
NEFF Fifty-one, according to the policy. 
JACKSON The man I saw was nothing like fifty- one years old. Of course, it was pretty dark on that platform and, come to think of it, he tried to keep his back towards me. But I'm positive just the same. 
KEYES That's fine, Jackson. Now you understand this matter is strictly confidential. We may need you again down here in Los Angeles, if the case comes to court. 
JACKSON Any time you need me, I'm at your entire disposal, gentlemen. Expenses paid, of course. 
Keyes picks up the telephone on his desk and speaks into it. 
KEYES Get me Lubin, in the cashier's office. 
Meanwhile, Jackson crosses over to Neff and, during the ensuing dialogue between him and Neff, we hear Keyes' low voice on the phone in background. We do not hear what he says. 
JACKSON (To Neff) Ever been in Medford, Mr. Neff? 
NEFF Never. 
JACKSON Wait a minute. Do you go trout fishing? Maybe I saw you up Klamath Falls way. 
NEFF Nope. Never fish. 
JACKSON Neff. Neff. I've got it! It's the name. There's a family of Neffs in Corvallis. 
NEFF No relation. 
JACKSON Let me see. This man's an automobile dealer in Corvallis. Very reputable man, too, I'm told. 
Keyes rejoins them at this point. 
KEYES All right, Mr. Jackson. Suppose you go down to the cashier's office -- room twenty-seven on the eleventh floor. They'll take care of your expense account and your ticket for the train tonight. 
JACKSON Tonight? Tomorrow morning would suit me better. There's a very good osteopath down here I want to see before I leave. 
Keyes has opened the door for Jackson. 
KEYES Okay, Mr. Jackson. Just don't put her on the expense account. 
Jackson doesn't get it. 
JACKSON Goodbye, gentlemen. A pleasure. 
He goes out. 
KEYES There it is, Walter. It's beginning to come apart at the seams already. A murder's never perfect. It always comes apart sooner or later. And when two people are involved it's usually sooner. We know the Dietrichson dame is in it, and somebody else. Pretty soon we're going to know who that somebody else is. He'll show. He's got to show. Sometime, somewhere, they've got to meet. Their emotions are all kicked up. Whether it's love or hate doesn't matter. They can't keep away from each other. They think it's twice as safe because there are two of them. But it's not twice as safe. It's ten times twice as dangerous. They've committed a murder and that's not like taking a trolley ride together where each one can get off at a different stop. They're stuck with each other. They've got to ride all the way to the end of the line. And it's a one-way trip, and the last stop is the cemetery. 
He puts a cigar in his mouth and starts tapping his pockets for matches. 
KEYES (Continued) She put in her claim and I'm going to throw it right back at her. (Pats his pockets again) Have you got one of those? 
Neff strikes a match for him. Keyes takes the match out of his hand and lights his cigar. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
D-11 INT. NEFF'S OFFICE - (NIGHT) 
Neff is dictating into the dictaphone. 
NEFF Yeah, I remembered it all right. Just as I remembered what you had told me, Keyes, about that trolley car ride, and how there was no way to get off until the end of the line, where the cemetery was. And I got to thinking what cemeteries are for. They're to put dead people in, I guess that was the first time I ever thought about Phyllis that way. Dead, I mean, and how things would be if she was dead. Because the way it was now she had me by the throat. She could hang me higher than a kite any day she felt like it. And there was nothing I could do, except hold my breath and watch that day come closer and closer, and maybe pray a little, if I still knew how to pray... I saw Lola three or four times that week. I guess it sounds crazy, Keyes, after what I had done, but it was only with her that I could relax and let go a little. Then one night we drove up into the hills above Hollywood Bowl... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
D-12 HOLLYWOOD HILLS (NIGHT) (TRANSPARENCY) 
Neff and Lola are climbing over a low hill in the foreground. The sky is starlit and music from the Bowl comes over the scene from below (Cesar Franck D Minor Symphony). As he helps her climb up, CAMERA PANS with them and shows the expanse of the Bowl below, a packed audience, and the orchestra on the lighted shell. 
They sit down on the grass. Neff sits near her, not too close. It is very dark and they are silhouetted against the shell lights. Neff puts a cigarette in his mouth and strikes a match. The flame lights up Lola's face. Neff glances at her. She is crying. He lights his cigarette and blows out the match. A pause follows. 
NEFF Why are you crying? 
Lola doesn't answer. 
NEFF You won't tell me? 
LOLA (In a choked voice) Of course I will, Walter. I wouldn't tell anybody else but you. It's about Nino. 
NEFF Zachetti? What about him? 
LOLA They killed my father together. He and Phyllis. He helped her do it. I know he did. 
NEFF What makes you say that? 
LOLA I've been following him. He's at her house, night after night. It was Phyllis and him all the time. Maybe he was going with me just for a blind. And the night of the murder -- 
NEFF You promised not to talk that way any more. 
LOLA -- he was supposed to pick me up after a lecture at U.C.L.A. -- but he never showed up. He said he was sick. Sick! He couldn't show up, because the train was leaving with my father on it. 
She begins to cry again. 
LOLA Maybe I'm just crazy. Maybe it's all just in my mind. 
NEFF Sure, it's all in your mind. 
LOLA I only wish it was, Walter, because I still love him. 
Over Neff's face, as he listens to the music, comes the commentary. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
D-13 LOBBY OF PACIFIC BLDG. (DAY) 
NEFF'S VOICE Zachetti. That's funny. Phyllis and Zachetti. What was he doing up at her house? I couldn't figure that one out I tried to make sense out of it and got nowhere. But the real brain-twister came the next day. You sprang it on me, Keyes, after office hours, when you caught me down in the lobby of the building. 
About 5:00 P.M. or a little later. A stream of office employees is coming out of an elevator; a second elevator reaches the lobby and some more office employees come out, among them Neff, wearing his hat and carrying his briefcase. 
CAMERA PRECEDES HIM as he walks toward the entrance doors. He is stopped by Keyes' voice, off to one side. 
KEYES' VOICE Oh, Walter, just a minute. 
Neff stops and looks towards the cigar counter, as he moves towards him. Keyes is standing there buying cigars. He is stuffing them into his pockets. 
NEFF Hello, Keyes. 
KEYES Hang onto your hat, Walter. 
NEFF What for? 
KEYES Nothing much. The Dietrichson case just busted wide open. 
NEFF How do you mean? 
KEYES The guy showed. That's how. 
NEFF The somebody else? 
KEYES Yeah. The guy that did it with her. 
NEFF No kidding? 
KEYES She's filed suit against us, and it's okay by me. When we get into that courtroom I'll tear them apart, both of them. Come on -- I'll buy you a martini. 
NEFF No thanks, Keyes. 
KEYES With two olives. 
NEFF I've got to get a shave and a shoeshine. I've got a date. 
KEYES Margie. I still bet she drinks from the bottle. 
PHYLLIS And what are you thinking about now? 
NEFF I'm all through thinking. This is goodbye. 
PHYLLIS Goodbye? Where are you going? 
NEFF It's you that's going, baby. Not me. I'm getting off the trolley car right at this corner. 
PHYLLIS Suppose you stop being fancy. Let's have it, whatever it is. 
NEFF I have a friend who's got a funny theory. He says when two people commit a murder they're kind of on a trolley car, and one can't get off without the other. They're stuck with each other. They have to go on riding clear to the end of the line. And the last stop is the cemetery. 
PHYLLIS Maybe he's got something there. 
NEFF You bet he has, Two people are going to ride to the end of the line, all right. Only I'm not going to be one of them. I've got another guy to finish my ride for me. 
PHYLLIS So you've got it all arranged, Walter. 
NEFF You arranged it for me. I didn't have to do a thing. 
PHYLLIS Just who are you talking about? 
NEFF An acquaintance of yours. A Mr. Zachetti. Come on, baby, I just got into this because I knew a little something about insurance, didn't I? I was just a sucker. I'd have been brushed-off as soon as you got your hands on the money. 
PHYLLIS What are you talking about? 
NEFF Save it. I'm telling this. It's been you and that Zachetti guy all along, hasn't it? 
PHYLLIS That's not true. 
NEFF It doesn't make any difference whether it's true or not. The point is Keyes believes Zachetti is the guy he's been looking for. He'll have him in that gas chamber before he knows what happened to him. 
PHYLLIS And what's happening to me all this time? 
NEFF Don't be silly. What do you expect to happen to you? You helped him do the murder, didn't you? That's what Keyes thinks. And what's good enough for Keyes is good enough for me. 
PHYLLIS Maybe it's not good enough for me. Walter. Maybe I don't go for the idea. Maybe I'd rather talk. 
NEFF Sometimes people are where they can't talk. Under six feet of dirt, for instance. And if it was you, they'd just charge it up to Zachetti, wouldn't they. One more item on his account. Sure they would. That's just what they're going to do. Especially since he's coming here, tonight... Oh, in about fifteen minutes from now, baby. With the cops right behind him. It's all taken care of. 
PHYLLIS And that'd make everything lovely for you, wouldn't it? 
NEFF Right. And it's got to be done before that suit of yours comes to trial, and Lola gets a chance to sound off, and they trip you up on the stand, and you start to fold up and drag me down with you. 
PHYLLIS Listen, Walter. Maybe I had Zachetti here so they won't get a chance to trip me up. So we can get that money and be together. 
NEFF That's cute. Say it again. 
PHYLLIS He came here the first time just to ask where Lola was. I made him come back. I was working on him. He's crazy sort of guy, quick-tempered. I kept hammering into him that she was with another man, so he'd get into one of his jealous rages, and then I'd tell him where she was. And you know what he'd have done to her, don't you, Walter. 
NEFF Yeah, and for once I believe you. Because it's just rotten enough. 
PHYLLIS We're both rotten, Walter. 
NEFF Only you're just a little more rotten. You're rotten clear through. You got me to take care of your husband, and then you got Zachetti to take care of Lola, and maybe take care of me too, and then somebody else would have come along to take care of Zachetti for you. That's the way you operate isn't it, baby. 
PHYLLIS Suppose it is, Walter. Is what you've cooked up for tonight any better? 
Neff gets up from the davenport. He listens to the music for a moment. 
NEFF I don't like this music anymore. It's too close. Do you mind if I shut the window? 
Phyllis just stares at him. He goes quietly over to the window and shuts it and draws the curtain. Phyllis speaks to his back: 
PHYLLIS (Her voice low and urgent) Walter! 
Neff turns, something changes in his face. There is the report of a gun. He stands motionless for a moment, then very slowly starts towards her. CAMERA IS SHOOTING OVER HIS SHOULDER at Phyllis as she stands with the gun in her hand. Neff stops after he has taken a few steps. 
NEFF What's the matter? Why don't you shoot again? Maybe if I came a little closer? 
Neff takes a few more steps towards her and stops again. 
NEFF How's that. Do you think you can do it now? 
Phyllis is silent. She doesn't shoot. Her expression is tortured. Neff goes on until he is close to her. Quietly he takes the gun out of her unresisting hand. 
NEFF Why didn't you shoot, baby? 
Phyllis puts her arms around him in complete surrender. 
NEFF Don't tell me it's because you've been in love with me all this time. 
PHYLLIS No. I never loved you, Walter. Not you, or anybody else. I'm rotten to the heart. I used you, just as you said. That's all you ever meant to me -- until a minute ago. I didn't think anything like that could ever happen to me. 
NEFF I'm sorry, baby. I'm not buying. 
PHYLLIS I'm not asking you to buy. Just hold me close. 
