GALEN 
He gawks skyward. Suddenly, the old man leans down and addresses him. 
ULRICH (a shout) We have visitors! 
CUT TO: 
ROTUNDA - NIGHT 
Clustering together in the center of a wide reception hall is a contingent of weary peasants, awkward amidst the dusty rugs, drapes and heavy furniture. Their leader is a fineboned youth, not yet twenty. Like the others, he is uneasy; his name is Valerian. Hodge enters and sets a tray of mead before them. He leaves without a word. The visitors stare glumly at the refreshment, but are too timorous to go near it. 
CONJURING ROOM 
Galen helps Ulrich prepare for the audience. The sorcerer peers at himself in a full-length mirror, adjusting the hem of a black robe. 
ULRICH Looks forbidding enough, don't you think? 
GALEN Here are your sticks. 
ULRICH No -- they'll think me infirm. You know, Balisarius wore this whenever he changed lead into gold. He could really do that, you know. I never could. Too bad -- you'd stand to inherit some real wealth. 
GALEN You're in a morbid frame of mind. What's all this about dying? You don't even look sick. 
ULRICH (tying on a sash) You still wearing that amulet? (Galen nods) Good. Don't lose it. It still belongs to me. 
He backs away from the mirror and fits a silver coronet onto his head. 
ULRICH Now, adeptus minor, get yourself a handful of that sulphurous ash over there... 
The sorcerer starts down a circular stone staircase. 
THE ROTUNDA 
The visitors watch warily as a door swings open and Galen makes his entrance, his face expressionless and hands pressed together. He looks rather young to be the famous Ulrich. 
Galen allows a moment to go by, then throws his arms wide. Ka-whump! and Ulrich appears in the doorway in a smoky fireball. Alarmed, the visitors retreat. 
ULRICH Nunc habeus lux! 
Pffst! around the room candles flare in their niches. 
ULRICH Et calor! 
In the fireplace, the birch logs are suddenly ablaze. Ulrich totters to the hearth and extends long bony fingers toward the warmth. 
ULRICH Welcome to Cragganmore. I am Ulrich. Which one of you calls himself Valerian? 
The travelers are suitably dazzled by the magician's performance. The young leader of the party screws up his courage and speaks. 
VALERIAN That would be me. We are here on behalf... 
ULRICH I know why you're here. You're a delegation from Urland, from beyond Dalvatia. Let's see the artifacts. 
The travelers exchange nervous glances. Valerian motions to one of his companions. The man steps forward and hands over a leather pouch. One by one, Valerian places the contents on the table for Ulrich's inspection. 
COURTYARD - DAY 
The travelers are making ready for departure in the grey light of dawn. As Hodge stuffs provisions into a wicker box, Ulrich wraps padding on a newly fashioned pair of crutches. 
ULRICH I know of this dragon. Vermithrax Pejorative: she's four hundred years old. As far as I can tell she's the last of her kind. Very appropriate that I'm the one to finish her off, don't you think? (he tries out the crutches) There. Flatten the highest mountain. What say you, Galen? (no answer) Speak up. (still no answer) You, Hodge. 
Hodge mutters something inaudible and grimly keeps packing. 
ULRICH (to Galen) While I'm gone see you keep your nose in your books and your hands out of my reagents. Leave my instruments alone too. 
Galen crouches against the castle wall; he regards his master sullenly. 
GALEN Look at yourself. How far will you get like that? A league, two leagues? 
ULRICH I'm not worried about the road. 
GALEN (sarcastic) Why don't you wave your hands around and summon up a coach-and-four? 
ULRICH Don't mock me. 
Galen gets up and calls out to the Urlanders. 
GALEN You pilgrims: You're used to lotteries. Why not draw straws to see who'll be first to carry ironshanks here. 
This is too much for Hodge. 
HODGE Hold your tongue. If the master's got a mind to go, he'll go. 
Galen approaches the old sorcerer. 
GALEN Send me. You're always saying I need seasoning. I need a test. Let me go. 
ULRICH You're not ready. 
GALEN I'm ready for anything. 
ULRICH (wan smile) Don't be so hasty. Your time will come. 
The walkers are ready to set forth. Hodge picks up his pack, steps forward and pulls open the great gate. 
HORSEMEN 
Three mounted men are outside the gate, helmets on their heads, swords on the belts and longbows across their shoulders. They look formidable. The Urlanders take a step backward. 
VALERIAN Tyrian!? 
Tyrian is a lean, heavily bearded nobleman. There is a coat of arms on the shield strapped to the pommel of his saddle. 
TYRIAN (amiable) Good morning, all. 
VALERIAN We're not afraid of you. Give us the road. 
TYRIAN Why, the road is yours. All the way to Urland. It's a long journey, isn't it? But when you're in search of a sorcerer, I suppose no distance is too great. 
Sensing trouble, Galen moves forward. Ulrich touches his arm. 
Everyone is filled with dread. Hodge is shaking. From the castle come the rattling of shutters and Galen's muffled cries. A sick sarcastic smile has crept over Tyrian's lips. He tenses himself to thrust. 
ULRICH Go on. Don't worry, you can't hurt me. 
CONJURING ROOM 
Galen stops hammering and presses his face to a crack in the shutter. Below he can see the participants in this grisly drama. He holds his breath. Tyrian makes a sudden movement and buries the blade in Ulrich's chest. But the sorcerer stands unbent, seemingly unhurt. Then, after a long moment, he slowly sags forward over the dagger and the hand that holds it. Tyrian shrinks back and allows the body to fall in a heap. Very quickly he remounts. In another moment he and his companions are gone. The others are riveted in horror. Hodge sinks to his knees and wails his grief. 
Galen turns away from the window and gazes blankly into the gloomy conjuring room. Click! The doors unlatch themselves and swing open. 
CUT TO: 
FUNERAL PYRE - DAY 
Ulrich, principal magician and sorcerer of the western world, reposes on a hardwood pyre. His hands are folded on his chest. His face is peaceful. While the visitors wordlessly look on, Galen touches a burning brand to the kindling. At first the fire catches normally enough, but when the flames start to envelop the body they suddenly turn pale green, producing an unearthly roar. The onlookers back away from the intense heat. 
GALEN 
The erstwhile apprentice stands his ground, blinking back tears, his face weirdly illuminated by the fire. 
CUT TO: 
CONJURING ROOM - DAY 
Galen sits alone amidst the museum-like collection of magical apparatus. He stares at the amulet, considering its significance. His reverie is interrupted by the murmur of voices below. At the window he looks down to see Hodge bidding farewell to the delegation from Urland. Valerian is the last to leave. He pauses at the gate and glances up at Galen. Then he moves on. The young student of magic sets his jaw, suddenly filled with resolve. 
Moving through the room, he busies himself with the old man's effects. He scoops up the loose books and parchments and locks them into trunks. He drapes muslin cloths over the alchemical devices. He sows a handful of salt over the pentagram inscribed in the floor. Finally, he opens the cages and releases the crow, the falcon, and the great horned owl. 
COURTYARD 
Hodge is up on the burned out funeral pyre, anxiously scraping ashes and small bones into a leather pouch -- the remains of Ulrich. Up behind him comes Galen, now clad in a traveler's cloak, with a pack on his back and a staff in his hand. 
GALEN Hodge -- what are you doing? 
Hodge quickly conceals the pouch. 
HODGE Just making my farewell, thank you very much. 
He quickly climbs down, picks up his pack and follows Galen out through the gate. As the door is pushed shut a huge oaken timber falls into place, barring the castle against the uninvited. 
CUT TO: 
HILLTOP - DAY 
Galen and Hodge labor to the crest of a grassy hill and turn to look back across a wide valley. There on another hilltop on the far side sits Cragganmore, lit by the red rays of the setting sun. Galen removes the amulet from his neck and clutches it in his fist. Hodge is bug-eyed to see it. 
HODGE Be careful with that! You don't know what you're doing. 
GALEN Stand back! 
He raises his hands toward the castle and calls out: 
GALEN Cragganmore! Domus non i am! Silva celet! 
CRAGGANMORE 
GREIL Because some people said, find a magician. Not just a local fellow, an import, a good forty leagues from home. An all-powerful necromancer. Ha -- some necromancer! 
Malkin, an older man, speaks up. 
MALKIN Hold your tongue, Greil. Sit. Eat. 
GREIL I'll not sit. I'll not eat. See you the Great Bear. His tail points east. It's the equinox. Have you forgotten? Or rather not think about it? 
VALERIAN (miserable) He's right. I brought us here for nothing. May the gods help whoever's daughter it is tonight. 
There is a noise from the darkness beyond the campfire. Two of the men get to their feet and listen. At first silence, then more rustling. Without a word the two men dart into the bushes and haul two interlopers before the company: Galen and Hodge. 
HODGE Good morrow, good morrow. Peace be with you. 
GALEN Easy now. We mean no harm. We've been looking for you. 
GREIL (growl) Well, you've found us. 
GALEN (brushing himself off) More the other way around, I'd say. 
VALERIAN What do you want? 
GALEN A few words, that's all. You were looking for a conjurer. 
VALERIAN He's dead. 
GALEN Right. Requiscat in pace. (he takes a deep breath) Ecce: magister novus! 
GREIL How say you? 
Galen surveys the puzzled faces. He draws himself up and plunges in: 
GALEN My lord Ulrich is no longer. All that you asked of him, you may now expect of me. The dangers he would face, I will now conquer. The task he would undertake I will now fulfill. I am Galen Bradwardyn, inheritor of Ulrich's craft and knowledge, and I am the Sorcerer you seek. 
There is a moment of depressed silence. Hodge rolls his eyes. Greil starts to chuckle, then to laugh. Soon the others are laughing too. 
GREIL Well, that's a handsome thought, O wizard of wizards. But if there's one thing our friend Tyrian has shown us, it's to beware the pig in the poke. Who's got a dagger? 
HODGE No tests!! 
GREIL Call it proof, then. 
Someone brings out a dagger and hands it to Greil. Valerian pushes it away. 
VALERIAN We've seen enough tests. 
But Greil persists, waving the knife at the group. 
GREIL Well I haven't. All I've seen is death. Death in our families, death on the road, and tonight, death at home. 
He lashes out with the knife. Galen jumps back, but Valerian steps in, delivering a quick kick to Greil's gut, followed by a right to the jaw that sends the bigger man sprawling. He takes the knife. 
VALERIAN What's come over you, anyway? Have you lost your wits? 
He propels Galen out of harm's way and sits him down on the other side of the fire. Greil nurses his jaw. 
Tyrian kneels beside a mountain waterfall, having a drink while his men hover in the background. One of them points down the slope. 
MAN There. I see them. 
Tyrian wipes his mouth unhurriedly and strolls over to look. Far below, half hidden by trees, the little company of Urlanders winds its way through the forest. 
A frown creeps over Tyrian's face. 
TYRIAN Who's that old man? 
MAN Where? Which one? 
TYRIAN That one. That's the man from Cragganmore. Now what's he doing here? 
MAN Filling in for the chief, I reckon. 
TYRIAN (weary) What a pity. 
CUT TO: 
HODGE 
Hodge marches along with the rest. When he's sure no one else is looking he burrows into his garments and brings out the leather pouch containing Ulrich's ashes. Reassured that it's still with him, he tucks it away again. Galen falls into step. 
GALEN What have you got there? 
HODGE None of your business. 
GALEN A little gold, eh? What do you say I change it into lead? 
HODGE Save your jokes for someone else. Me, I don't care for braggarts. 
They pass Valerian, who has dropped out of line. 
HODGE And I don't care for frauds. 
GALEN I'm no fraud. 
HODGE Call it fool then. Upstart. Whatever pleases you. 
GALEN Hodge, nobody forced you to come along. 
HODGE Oh, I'm here of my own free will, all right. We each do the master's bidding in our own way. 
GALEN Well, if he told you I needed wetnursing, why don't you just turn yourself around and go back home. 
Hodge snorts and fusses with his pack. 
HODGE Home, is it? You've seen to that, haven't you? Gone to seed, I'd say... 
He glances over and discovers Galen missing. 
GALEN 
He walks back along the trail, looking for Valerian. Pretty soon the rest of the travelers are out of sight. He hears the sound of a splash. He turns off the trail and pushes through some shrubbery. 
VALERIAN Ask my father. 
They finish dressing in silence. Finally: 
GALEN The lottery! Daughters are chosen, but sons are not! 
VALERIAN That's right. Unless you have plenty of gold or property. 
GALEN What do you mean? 
VALERIAN If you're rich enough, your name never goes in. (bitter) My father is poor. So are a lot of fathers. 
He studies her. She jams a hat down over her head and, once more the young man, stalks off. 
THE VISION 
Galen walks down to the edge of the pool to retrieve his pack. As he leans over he catches sight of what appears to be a reflection in the water: Tyrian on horseback. He whips around, but no one is behind him. Riveted by the vision, he hurries along the bank to follow it. After a few paces the blurry figure dismounts, unslings a longbow, nocks an arrow and draws the string taut. 
GALEN (horrified) No! 
FOREST 
Galen sprints through the trees. Up ahead is Valerian, walking resolutely. 
GALEN No! 
She glances back at him and grimly keeps on walking. Galen shoots past her and on into the forest. 
GALEN Hodge! 
TRAVELERS 
Galen races up the trail rounds a bend and sees the Urlanders coming toward him. Hodge precedes the group with an unsteady gait. He sees Galen, raises up his arms and flops face down on the trail. A long arrow protrudes from his back. Galen kneels beside him. The uneasy company keeps its distance. Hodge struggles to speak. 
HODGE Galen? Can you hear me? 
GALEN I hear you. 
HODGE You know, somebody shot me, but I can still talk. There's something that has to be done. 
GALEN I know. 
HODGE Not that cockatrice. Ulrich's ashes. Here. 
Hodge's hand comes out from under his coat gripping the leather pouch. Galen tugs at it, but Hodge can't let go. 
HODGE Take it. Sorry, you'll have to peel it loose. 
Galen pries the sack out of Hodge's clenched fingers. Suddenly the hand comes up, grabs Galen by the hair, and pulls him near. 
HODGE (a croak) ...burning water... find the lake, throw it in... 
GALEN (holding up the pouch) What are you doing with this, Hodge? 
HODGE ...burning water... 
GREIL Look, you don't have to do this. We know you're a fine young magician. None better. There's no need to prove it to us. 
GALEN Are there other entrances? 
VALERIAN No. One's enough. 
GREIL Come on. The road's this way. We'll tell everybody how close you got. 
GALEN (coolly) No smoke. How do you know it's in there? 
GREIL Don't be a fool. Come away now and live to tell about it. 
Instead, Galen starts into the crack. Greil and Malkin hasten away, but Valerian lingers, watching in mounting frustration as Galen probes further and further into the lair. She picks up a fistful of stones and throws them at him. 
VALERIAN Go ahead! You're going to die! What a fine trick that will be! 
But Galen is lost in the gloom. She flees. 
UNDERGROUND 
Galen puts his hand on the rugged wall: the rocks are hot to the touch. Something glinting on the floor catches Galen's eye: an irridescent disk, a dragon scale. It flashes the colors of the rainbow as Galen examines it. All at once the ground shudders; chunks of rock fall from the ceiling. A pall of smoke billows up from the depths. 
OUTSIDE 
Galen staggers out of the fissure coughing and gagging in a swirl of smoke. There is no sign of the Urlanders. He throws down his pack, climbs onto a huge boulder and surveys the massive cliffs rising behind the lair. He grasps the amulet and closes his eyes. 
GALEN Now, great mountain, hear my command: Terrae lapsus consignet latibulum draconis! Evanescat latibulum draconis! 
LANDSLIDE 
With a thunderous splitting sound, the entire top of the cliff pitches forward and topples onto the lower half of the mountain, sweeping tons of debris into the air. Boulders the size of houses bound down the mountain toward the magician. Eyes wide with awe, he turns and runs for his life. Even as he careens down the slope, chunks of rock rumble past. One catches him at the knee and sends him flying. 
He covers his head and joins the landslide. Finally the dust lifts and he finds himself in a gully face to face with the cowering Urlanders. They look with real fear at the man who just conjured up the Apocalypse. Tattered and torn, covered with dirt, Galen climbs up out of the shelter for a look at his handiwork. 
LANDSCAPE 
The territory has been drastically transformed: the dragon's lair is now buried beneath hundreds of tons of broken granite. The Urlanders look upon the new landscape with stupefaction. Galen grins a triumphant split-lip grin that fails to win them over. Presently they back away and run off down the trail, Valerian in their midst. Galen's grin fades. 
CUT TO: 
VILLAGE - DAY 
The Village of Swanscombe is little more than a rough and ready collection of thatched huts and mud-daubed outbuildings surrounded by cultivated fields. Dogs sleep in open door- ways; chickens peck around the communal well -- but there are no people in evidence as Valerian and her company troop into town. 
VALERIAN 
She trots across the square and enters a deserted blacksmith shop. 
VALERIAN Father? Hello? 
She goes over to the forge. Hot coals are burning. She becomes aware of a sound -- voices -- chanting. 
SQUARE 
She walks across the square toward the voices. She is joined by Greil, Malkin and the other travelers, all of them puzzled by the desolation. As they approach the grange hall the voices grow louder. They seem to be singing. The main doors open briefly and three villagers scamper out, dripping wet and wrapped in white muslin. Valerian and her companions look at each other in astonishment. 
A procession of curious villagers winds its way into the badlands. They gather on a promontory overlooking the dragon's lair. They stand there for a long time, a chill wind whipping their garments, trying to understand what's happened. The monk is mightily displeased. 
BROTHER JACOPUS Praise God! Blessed is he that is humble before the Lord! 
VALERIAN Your god had nothing to do with it. 
Indeed, Galen's act is already the stuff of legend: 
MALKIN We saw it with our own eyes. He flew to the mountain top. He was a bird. He brought forth lightning. I saw it. 
Some of the younger villagers scamper forward to the spot where the cave had its opening. With yells and whoops they beat the ground with clubs. In the crowd Simon begins to smile, then to laugh. Soon he leads the villagers in a tumultuous cheer. Brother Jacopus and some of his converts drop to their knees and pray. 
CUT TO: 
CELEBRATION 
The inhabitants of Swanscombe have decked out the town square and are making a night of it. By torchlight they dance merrily to jigs and reels provided by the local fiddlers. Ale flows freely from oak casks. 
VALERIAN'S HOUSE 
Valerian is kneeling before a trunk full of women's clothing. She pulls out a long simple frock, goes to a crude mirror, and holds it up against her body to gauge the effect. Her father comes up behind her. He is angry and frightened. 
SIMON Put that away. What if you were seen? 
VALERIAN I'm going to be seen. I want to be seen. Tonight the world finds out that you never had a son. 
SIMON No, you mustn't do that. It's too soon. We've got to think about this, we've got to make a plan. 
VALERIAN Father: the danger is over. 
He sits on the bed and puts his head in his hands. 
SIMON I know. What am I going to say to my friends who still mourn for their lost girls. 
VALERIAN You'll say you did what you had to. This is a time for celebration -- and forgiveness. 
He looks up at her, trying to imagine what it's going to be like having a daughter. 
CELEBRATION 
Galen is surrounded by a crowd of wide-eyed kids and not a few adults, entertaining them by pulling duck's eggs out of their ears and causing coins to disappear. Presently he feels the attention of his audience shift away to someone standing behind him. He turns to find a shy but determined Valerian sweetly decked out in her blue frock. A buzz goes through the crowd. Valerian blushes and wavers: she seems ready to bolt for home. But Galen takes her by the hand, and with conspicuous politesse leads her to the dance. 
DANCE 
It's forward, back and around sixth-century style: the young sorcerer can't take his eyes off his partner. But she's too shy to return his gaze. 
GALEN Looks like you've been up to a little sorcery yourself. 
Valerian doesn't know what to say. 
GALEN Or is it witchcraft? 
She still doesn't reply. It's all she can do to keep on dancing. 
GALEN What's the matter? A real woman never stops talking. 
CUT TO: 
THRONE ROOM - DAY 
Within the castle is a great hall with shafts of daylight poking in through narrow windows set high in the walls. In the middle of the room stands a carved oak throne. There is Casiodorus Rex, King of Urland, a bearded man in his fifties, as spare and somber as the room in which he sits. He is flanked by a few servants, assorted courtiers and Tyrian. Standing before them all is Galen, looking unhappy. He pours a pitcher full of water into a small glazed goblet. 
GALEN One of the best things about the water here in Urland is that there's so much of it -- look at that! 
Water continues to pour into the goblet without overflowing. Galen takes a sip. 
GALEN Mmm. Good. But not cold enough. Perhaps I could borrow a scarf from his Majesty. 
The King makes no sign. Galen approaches stiffly, takes a scarf and retreats. 
GALEN I cover the goblet, so... remove, so... and behold: winter in a mug! 
And he's done it: he turns the goblet over and a small chunk of ice hits the floor. The royal reaction is equally frosty. Galen is bombing, and he knows it. 
GALEN All right. How many of you have ever seen a table fly? 
He mutters an incantation. In the audience, Tyrian notes that Galen has his hand wrapped around the amulet. There is a loud clatter as the heavy oak table before the throne begins to jitter and buck. As the wine spills and plates go flying, the King wearily raises a hand. 
KING Enough! That's fine. 
GALEN Wait, it'll rise now. 
KING Don't bother. Not necessary. 
The table cracks in half and dumps a mess of fruit and crockery at the onlookers' feet. 
KING Tell me: the landslide -- it was accomplished this same way? 
GALEN Yes. 
KING I see. And having rendered such unique service to our kingdom, what would you claim as a reward? 
GALEN Please -- no payment. I have always found magical practice to be its own reward. I seek only some yet greater challenge. 
This handsome sentiment doesn't go over any better than his tricks. 
KING Did you ever hear of King Gaiseric? Of course not, you weren't even born. He was my brother, a great King and a valiant man-at-arms. When he ascended to the throne, the dragon was unbridled. No one knew where it might strike next. So he brought forth his broadsword and his spear, assembled a company of his best fighters and went out to do battle. (pause) He was never seen again. But his attack provoked the most terrible reprisals: whole villages incinerated, entire crops burned. Death, famine, horrible. 
The King grimaces as the memories come flooding back. 
KING (quietly) How did you arrogate to yourself the role of savior? 
GALEN I was invited. 
KING Not by me. Did you ever consider the consequences of failure? 
GALEN What failure? What's the matter with you people? You want the dragon back? 
KING Then the beast is dead? 
GALEN Yes, of course. Dead. 
GALEN Virgin? 
ELSPETH Maiden. 
GALEN If you say so. 
ELSPETH What do you mean? 
GALEN (sighs) Nothing. 
ELSPETH I've participated in every drawing since I came of age. 
GALEN Maybe. 
ELSPETH It's true. You don't believe me. You think I'm lying. Well I'm not. 
GALEN I'm sorry. I heard a rumor. Families with money, that sort of thing. 
ELSPETH Don't listen to rumors. They're lies. I have to go now. 
GALEN Wait -- how long do I have to stay in here? 
ELSPETH Until we know. Not long. Goodbye. Vale. Dormi bene. 
She slips away down the corridor. 
LIBRARY 
King Casiodorus and Tyrian are huddled over a table piled high with manuscripts and papers. Tyrian clears a spot and sets out a stack of lead bars. 
KING That's enough. Let's not be greedy here. 
The King picks up Galen's amulet, and holds it over the bars in his clenched fist. 
KING Now then: I, Casiodorus Rex do hereby command thou base metal to change thy essence and become gold. 
There is a rustle of skirts and Elspeth appears behind him. 
ELSPETH Father? 
KING Not now. Tyrian, remove all but one bar. We'll try it one at a time. 
ELSPETH Father: did you know that some families have paid bribes to stay out of the lottery? 
The King and Tyrian glance up at her. 
KING Nonsense. By the power of this amulet, justly wielded by my hand in accordance with the laws of Urland, now lead be thou gold. 
The lead remains unchanged, but the King gives out a cry and drops the amulet. 
KING I'm burned! What devilish thing is this? 
ELSPETH Have you ever kept my name off the lottery list? 
KING That'll be all, Tyrian. You may withdraw. 
TYRIAN There! Stop him! 
Galen rides like mad for the exit, but he's a half-second late: the doors boom shut in his face. He wheels the horse around. The King's men are coming toward him with pikes. Digging his heels into the horse's sides, he urges the animal back across the courtyard, up the steps and right into the building! 
THRONE ROOM 
Galen gallops into the empty chamber, knocking over the throne and vaulting a table. Hot on his heels are armed soldiers. He kicks the horse again and shoots under an archway. 
KITCHEN 
The kitchen is already in chaos from the earthquake when Galen charges in on his wild steed. Food, utensils and cooks go flying. He reins in, ducks his head, and squeezes the horse out into a narrow hallway. 
HALLWAY 
He clatters down the passageway. But here comes a contingent of footmen from the opposite direction. Galen rides them into the walls! 
STAIRS 
The horse scrabbles up the stairs, Galen tucked low against its neck. On the upper landing he comes face to face with Tyrian and more soldiers. 
TYRIAN Get him! Stab the horse! 
Galen jerks the animal around and plunges back down the stairs. 
LIBRARY 
Whinnying and blowing the horse bursts in, a wild-eyed Galen still in the saddle. He finds himself confronting the King and his daughter. 
Casiodorus grabs Elspeth and retreats into a corner. 
KING Tyrian! Tyrian! 
Tyrian sweeps in with his men. The doors slam shut. 
KING So much for your magic! So much for your sorcery! 
Galen is trapped. Just as Tyrian reaches for the horse's reins, the animal rears up, rolling its eyes. At that moment the floor heaves and cracks in a new series of shocks. The men at arms go down like ten pins. Tyrian reels back, dodging stone blocks loosened from the ceiling. As the shaking continues, a weakened section of wall gives way. Galen sees daylight! Without even waiting for the quake to cease, he prods the horse across the room and through the wall to freedom. 
CUT TO: 
DRAGON COUNTRY - DAY 
The unnerved citizens of Swanscombe gather on the promontory overlooking Galen's landslide. Every few seconds there is a new shudder and more rocks pour down the long slope. Valerian stands trembling with her father. Presently Brother Jacopus elbows his way forward. 
BROTHER JACOPUS Listen to me, my brethren. The moment of our fear is the moment of our triumph. This is a sign from God. Follow me, and our faith will send this creature straight to hell. 
Holding a cross before him, he starts up the slope. No one follows. They haven't been Christians all that long. One or two near Valerian get down on their knees and pray silently. Greil looks things over. 
GREIL You call yourselves Christians? 
He strides after the monk. But he's the only one. 
NEAR THE LAIR 
The determined monk has arrived at the epicenter. His sandals are smoking on the hot gravel. Sweat shines on his face and neck. 
GALEN I can't do it. 
VALERIAN (this stops her) What? Why not? 
Galen's hand moves up to where the amulet used to hang. 
GALEN I just can't. 
VALERIAN But you're a sorcerer. 
GALEN I'm no sorcerer. Whatever power I might have had, it's gone. 
VALERIAN It can't be! 
GALEN I know: I'm an imposter. A fraud. A fake. I'm sorry... 
For a moment, Valerian is too stunned to speak. Then her face colors. 
VALERIAN You're sorry?! Listen to that! The damn thing is loose, we're all on fire and you're sorry! 
Galen sinks to the floor and sits in the ashes. 
VALERIAN You didn't have the faintest idea what you were doing, did you? You're a fool -- and I'm a bigger one for bringing you here. 
She snatches up a pitchfork and glowers at him. 
VALERIAN I don't want you in this house. Get out. 
But Galen still sits there like a puppet with its strings cut, every dream of glory utterly crushed. This piteous sight touches Valerian's heart. Her gaze softens. She slowly lowers the pitchfork. 
FADE OUT: 
FADE IN: 
TOWN SQUARE - DAY 
A knot of villagers lead Tyrian and his henchmen across the square directly to the blacksmith's shop. The King's men dismount and pound on the door. It swings open. Valerian is standing there. 
TYRIAN Where is he? 
VALERIAN Not here. I can't help you. 
A cry goes up from the villagers. They know damn well he's in there. 
VALERIAN'S HOUSE 
Tyrian pushes Valerian aside and steps into the room. Aided by some townfolk, his men proceed to ransack the premises, overturning barrels, sticking their swords through flour sacks, poking through the tumbledown thatch. Valerian's eye falls on Malkin, who has involved himself in the search. 
VALERIAN You too? 
MALKIN (returning her look) Damn right. 
Finding nothing, the group pushes into the metal shop, where Simon is hammering an iron wheel rim back into shape on an enormous anvil. He lays down his tools and grimly watches the men go through, overturning benches and tables. Tyrian props a leg up on the anvil and addresses himself to Simon. 
TYRIAN As the proud new father of an eligible daughter who was some-how overlooked all these years, it may interest you to know that the King has called for a new lottery. 
SIMON Don't do that! (he looks at Valerian) Girl-child, when you were born I knew I had to do something, so I set about the task of fashioning an extraordinary weapon: I had the skill to make it -- (bleak pause) -- but not the nerve to use it. 
She looks at him with affection. Leaning forward, she plants a kiss on his bald pate. 
VALERIAN I'm thankful for that. (to Galen) No man should choose a senseless death. 
CUT TO: 
STREAM - DAY 
Galen, Valerian and Simon tramp through a glade to a mossy bank. There a wide stream flows lazily under a canopy of trees. 
VALERIAN If it's me you're worried about, don't. So my name has been entered, what of it? There are hundreds of girls. My name just won't be drawn. I know it won't. 
Galen walks out into the shallows and pushes the sword-tip into the sandy bottom, angled so that the edge splits the current. 
GALEN Valerian, this isn't just for your sake. 
He walks back to shore. All three watch the sword to see what will happen. 
SWORD 
Big flat oak leaves are gliding along the current. Very slowly, they go by the sword, some of them very close. Finally, one of them floats against the leading edge of the blade and without a ripple is cleft in two. Simon gives Galen a significant look. 
VALERIAN I don't care. It doesn't matter. What you want to kill isn't flesh and blood. 
SIMON Oh, it'll bleed, all right. 
VALERIAN How do you know? No one's so much as even scratched it. 
They look to Galen. The apprentice's face is full of doubt. 
GALEN I'll need the amulet. 
CUT TO: 
KING'S CASTLE - NIGHT 
Carrying torches to light their way, families -- some with maiden daughters -- gather from all over the country in the courtyard of the King's castle. Simon is there with Valerian, and so is Galen, disguised in rough farm clothes and a wide- brimmed hat. Like many others, he carries a stick topped with a bleached skull -- to all appearances, just another participant in this weird pagan ritual. A barrel decorated with flames and dragon's wings sits on a raised dais in front of the main entrance. Horsrik, the King's herald, supervises preparations for the lottery. Armed guards appear carrying a sealed chest. Horsrik breaks the seal and the guards pour the contents -- hundreds of wooden tiles, each bearing the name of a potential sacrifice -- into the barrel. Trumpets blare and drums roll and the royal party strolls onstage: the King, his daughter, courtiers and Tyrian. Valerian nudges Galen. 
VALERIAN (pointing) Look at her. The Princess. 
GALEN I know. We've met. 
Valerian gives Galen a sharp look. Horsrik unrolls a parchment. 
HORSRIK (reading) People of Urland: whereas the peace of the kingdom has been disrupted by the mischief of an interloper; and whereas this interloper being fled; now therefore, his majesty the King hereby proclaims the sum of thirty ducats to be paid to anyone producing the miscreant Galen Bradwardyn, fraud enchanter, to our satisfaction. 
Galen pulls his hat low over his eyes. As the moment for the drawing approaches, Valerian becomes more and more uneasy. She pushes forward through the crowd until she's just below the barrel. She eyes the people around her. Some of them seem equally worried, others -- the better dressed and better fed -- are smug and complacent. The King and his retinue are serene. A chant goes up from the crowd: 
CROWD Stir the tiles! Stir the tiles! 
Horsrik picks up a wooden staff surmounted by a carved dragon's head and stirs up the names. This done, a new chant goes up: 
CROWD Bare the arm! Bare the arm! 
Galen can hear the voices in the courtyard as he rushes down a hall. Suddenly he stops short. There in front of him is a guard leaning out a window to watch the proceedings. Galen hovers on the verge of panic as the guard abruptly moves. But the man is only headed for another window and a better view. Galen manages to fall into step an arm's length behind him and slip by without a sound. 
LIBRARY 
Galen enters the library, his enormous shadow dancing crazily on the torchlit walls. Hurrying through, his attention is drawn to some open books on a table. Closer inspection reveals magical writings and symbols. Galen paws over everything, suddenly aware that he must be close to the amulet. But where is it? 
COURTYARD 
As the crowd disperses Valerian watches Elspeth walk back in the castle, lofty and composed. She looks for Galen and discovers he has gone. 
LIBRARY 
By now, the room is in total disarray. Galen has opened all the chests and trunks and knocked half the books from the shelves. No amulet. He's feverishly working on a locked drawer when a voice interrupts him. 
KING Don't go to all that trouble. 
Galen whirls around to find the King standing in the doorway. The monarch looks shattered. Galen edges toward the split in the wall and finds that it has been shored up with timbers. At that moment Tyrian comes through the door, sizes up the situation and draws his sword. 
GALEN I'm unarmed. If you want a fight, at least give me a weapon. 
TYRIAN (pushing by the King) I think not! 
KING Stop! Don't harm him. (to Galen) And you -- don't run away... please... 
The King's voice is cracking. Galen and Tyrian are equally taken aback. The King searches through the books remaining on the library shelves. 
KING (shaky) I've always had the greatest admiration for the black arts. You chaps with your mysterious spells... I didn't think it would be necessary, you see. Vermithrax is an old dragon. And that, I thought, was the beauty of my plan -- buying time. We'd wait her out. I'd live to see the end of her. (firm) That's still going to happen. 
The King finds the book and takes the amulet out. With trembling hands, he passes it to Galen. 
TYRIAN Sire! 
KING He shall have it. (pleading) It's my daughter. Save her, I beg you. 
CUT TO: 
VILLAGE - DAY 
The people of Swanscombe are clearing up the rubble and beginning repairs on their dwellings. Standing in their midst, lecturing every passerby, is Greil. He holds up the charred remains of Brother Jacopus' wooden cross. 
GREIL Holy of holies -- he did not die in vain. Can you hear me, brothers? 
Some workmen go by lugging new thatch. Malkin is with them. 
MALKIN (gently) We hear you, Greil. 
GREIL Well and good, but I'm Greil no longer. Call me Gregorius, after the Bishop of Rome. 
Malkin and the others stop to listen. 
GREIL I saw him die. Like Our Lord Jesus on the cross he was, scourged by evil. But he showed no fear. Such is the power of the Holy Ghost. 
BLACKSMITH SHOP 
Galen lurks in the shadows of Simon's metal shop looking out on the square where Greil is holding forth. 
She shudders. Galen's eyes are still fastened on her. She's fighting to retain her hard manner, but the agitation and dread are plain. 
GALEN Hatchlings. They'll have to be killed too. Anything else? 
Valerian wants to be bold, but on this final point, can't muster the courage. 
VALERIAN (tiny voice) You're in love, aren't you? 
GALEN (slowly nodding) Yes. 
VALERIAN That's all right. I understand. She's very beautiful, very brave. 
GALEN Who is? What do you mean? 
VALERIAN Your Princess. But I don't care. It doesn't change the way I feel. (firm) Listen to me, Galen Bradwardyn, sorcerer's apprentice; you're going to be dead, the dragon will be worse than ever, there will be more lotteries, and I'm not a boy any more. 
GALEN And you'll be eligible because -- 
VALERIAN Because I'm still a virgin, and I want you to do something about it. 
Galen takes her in his arms; she is trembling. He tilts her face up toward his and kisses her. 
GALEN I am in love. But not with the Princess. 
Their image is reflected in the waters. Through the ripples she is visible pulling briefly away to remove her clothes. 
From afar, they are two tiny figures under the overarching oaks and willows. They embrace and sink down into the deep grass beside the water. The leaves continue their unhurried course downstream. 
CUT TO: 
DRAGON COUNTRY - NIGHT 
A cold wind whistles through the rocks near the dragon's lair. By the light of a flickering torch two workmen finish driving a heavy post into the ground. As they affix a pair of iron manacles they see the torches of a procession coming up the slope. They hurry down to meet it. Horsrik is in the lead, followed by soldiers and royal attendants. Elspeth rides in the tumbril behind a blindfolded horse. Bringing up the rear is Tyrian. At last the cart can go no further. Elspeth alights and leads the rest of the troop to the post. As the soldiers put the irons around her wrists, Horsrik unrolls a parchment, turns his back on the wind and begins to read: 
HORSRIK Now be it known throughout the kingdom, that the Princess, having been chosen by a deed of fortune and destiny -- 
Horsrik blinks. There's a black stain growing in the middle of the parchment; all at once it bursts into flames. He cries out and flings the document away. There follows a flash of light and a puff of smoke and Galen is standing there, as if he had materialized out of thin air. Horsrik and his startled men backpedal down the slope. 
HORSRIK No fire, I beg you. 
Galen raises his hands in a menacing gesture. 
GALEN Be gone! 
That's enough for Horsrik and company: he and the soldiers depart. 
HORSRIK (over his shoulder) I declare these proceedings duly ordained... 
Only one man remains behind the challenge the young sorcerer: Tyrian. He draws his sword. 
TYRIAN I knew I'd find you here. Well, I'm not as sentimental as some. The kingdom, every one of us, need this sacrifice. If you intend to interfere, you'll have to kill me. 
GALEN I've got plenty of reasons to kill you that have nothing to do with this sacrifice. 
Galen draws his own sword. As it emerges into the night air it seems imbued with a blue phosphorescence. 
CUT TO: 
DAWN 
Valerian roams the rock-strewn slope not far from the dragon's lair. Presently she comes upon a once-familiar object -- the fire shield. Half the scales are gone, the rest are charred and curling. Grimly, she moves on. A few paces away she picks up the blunted sword. She scans the rocks and finally sees what she's looking for. 
GALEN 
He's lying face down behind a boulder, his clothes charred, patches of skin scorched. He looks dead. Valerian rolls him onto his back. She gasps: the eyes are open, regarding her. 
GALEN Still alive. 
CUT TO: 
BLACKSMITH SHOP - DAY 
Simon is standing by the anvil with the broken sword in his hand, lost in thought. 
HOUSE 
In the adjoining house Valerian tends Galen's wounds. He's propped up on a palette enduring the application of poultices. 
VALERIAN You know what we have to do. (he looks at her with dull eyes) We have to leave Urland. 
He winces in pain. 
VALERIAN Not because of what happened. I brought you here -- it didn't work -- now I'm taking you away. Do you understand? (Galen does not react) You said you loved me. Is it true? If it is, it's the only good we've done. Let's not lose that too. (pause) Galen? 
He seems miles away. She turns aside, on the verge of tears. Simon is standing there, still holding the sword hilt. 
SIMON She's right. What kind of a life could you have here? It's too late for me, but you're young enough. (he shows them the sword) You know what I think? Magic is dying out, fading from the world. But that makes me happy. That means the dragon will be dying too. 
Galen looks at him; he has heard everything. He sits up and fondly regards Valerian. 
PACKING 
Valerian packs her belongings into a rucksack. The last item in is her blue frock, carefully rolled. Beside her, Galen dons clean traveling clothes. He stiffly crosses the room and drags his pack out of the corner. He sorts through the effects, and amidst the clothing and supplies discovers the leather pouch containing Ulrich's remains. He contemplates it. 
VALERIAN What's that? 
GALEN Nothing. I was just thinking -- poor Hodge. 
He tucks the pouch away, throws some clothes on top and ties the satchel shut. 
CUT TO: 
STREAM - DAY 
Beside the quiet stream Simon bids farewell to the young couple, embracing each in turn. They slosh across the shallow water and follow a path into the woods. 
CUT TO: 
VILLAGE SQUARE - DAY 
Greil is standing outside the half-burned grange hall, summoning the Christian faithful. He proclaims the call to worship by hammering on a small bell. One by one the townsfolk arrive. Among them is Simon, looking bereft. 
ULRICH It can wait. 
GALEN No it can't. Listen: I thought I was a sorcerer -- but I wasn't. I thought I had power -- but I didn't. I thought I was you -- but I'm not. 
He hangs his head. Ulrich regards him steadily. 
ULRICH Well said. Now hurry. 
He leads the way across the rocks to the shore and into the tunnel. 
VALERIAN 
Time seems to have come to a stop. Overhead, the moon is locked in front of the sun. At the lair, Valerian stands frozen as the dragon leans over her. The great head sways from side to side. The jaws hinge open. Suddenly, Valerian recovers herself and makes a run for it, leaping and scrabbling over the rocks. A plume of flame licks at her heels. She sees a protective crevice and heads for it, but a winged claw drops to block her way. She changes direction and is cut off again. Cat and mouse. 
VERMITHRAX 
The pale yellow eyes stare implacably down at the hopeless victim. The igniter jets come on, then off, as the beast suddenly stiffens. The head rotates, almost as if catching a new scent. Finally the eyes focus on the entrance to the cavern. 
ULRICH 
There is the sorcerer, leaning on Galen, coolly regarding the creature. The old man's expression hardens. 
ULRICH Draco draconis... 
The dragon lifts its wings as if to menace them, then flaps twice and is airborne. The thing shoots overhead and, with a rush of wind, flies off into the gloom. 
IN THE ROCKS 
Valerian struggles out of her hiding place. 
VALERIAN Galen! 
Galen runs to her. They embrace. When they look up, Ulrich is at their side. 
ULRICH Where's my amulet? Give it to me, please. 
Galen's hand locates the jewel under his shirt. He finds himself reluctant to part with it. 
With a hurricane howl, a column of flame touches down nearby and rushes toward them. They stagger back as the dragon sweeps past. 
ULRICH Be quick! 
Galen hands his treasure over. Ulrich closes his hand around it. 
ULRICH Come close to me. 
Galen and Valerian approach. The old man's hand is suffused with an internal glow. Behind them, the dragon is turning for another pass. 
VORTEX 
All at once the glow brightens, and in another instant the world spins off into a blur, setting all three afloat in a timeless netherworld. Valerian and Galen cling to each other in terror. 
ULRICH Don't be afraid. You have served me with great courage. Now you must show me you have even more. 
GALEN Anything! 
