A DRY WHITE SEASON 
Rewrite by EUZHAN PALCY 
May 1987 Revised First Draft 
FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY 
"IN THE WHOLE WORLD THERE IS NOT A SINGLE POOR DEVIL WHO IS LYNCHED, NOT ONE MISERABLE MAN WHO IS TORTURED IN WHOM I TOO, I AM NOT MURDERED AND DEGRADED." 
Aime Cesaire 
PRE-TITLE: 
FADE IN: EXT. DAN PIENAAR SECONDARY SCHOOL FOR BOYS - DAY 
Dan Pienaar school is a typical Johannesburg Afrikaan school. The students are mainly from middle-class families. School athletics are in progress. The stu- dents, in their smart school uniforms, are cheering enthusiastically a relay race on the immaculately-kept sports ground. GORDON NGUBENE, a 47-years-old African laborer is work- ing in the school garden. A few feet away is his 15- years-old son JONATHAN leaning against a wall watching the games. BEN DU TOIT, a 50-year-old Afrikaaner history teacher, is enthusiastically cheering his son JOHAN, a 15-years-old, who is leading neck-and-neck with another boy in the last leg of the race. The excitement increases as they approach the tape. Ben is beside himself, egging his son with shouts. The young teacher, VIVIERS, standing next to Ben, is shouting "come on Johan," and slapping the father on the back. Johan breasts the tape just ahead of the other boy. The ground is invaded by boys running to congratulate Johan. Ben hurries towards his happy but exhausted son; the proud father pushing his way through the animated boys. As he reaches Johan he pats him on the back. BEN This was your best race. JOHAN (excited) I beat him, Papa. 
BEN (proudly) You did son. Come on, shower. 
They walk happily towards the school buildings in conver- sation, Johan being slapped on the back by friends. Ben stops to talk to Gordon who jumps to his feet. 
BEN I'll be expecting you. There isn't much to do, only weeding the marigolds and watering the lawn and flowers. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: GORDON We'll be there, Mr. Ben'sir, Jonathan come to help me. Ben hadn't seen Jonathan.    He turns to him. 
BEN And how's the algebra?   Still giving you trouble? JONATHAN (with respect) Just a little, Mr. Ben'sir. JOHAN Me too. 
GORDON (straightening himself) He's working hard, Mr. Ben'sir, and your money will not be wasted. Emily and me will always thank you. 
BEN (as he leaves) See you both later. Gordon returns to his work a little distance further. A group of students are laughing and pushing each other boisterously. As they near Jonathan, two nudge each other and giggle. Then, one of them trips Jonathan. He falls to the ground and jumps up aggressively, about to attack the boy. Gordon shouts "Jonathan." The headmaster, MRS. CLOETE, aged 65 years, has observed the incident, but takes no action. 
Jonathan stands panting with rage.       He suddenly strides away towards the gate in a rage. 
GORDON (shouting angrily) U ya phi? (Where are you going?) 
Jonathan turns to look at his father and continues to walk off. TITLES. 
EXT. SOWETO BEER HALL - AFTERNOON The beer hall is a large complex with a drinking area with long rows of low benches. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Men sit drinking African beer in one-half and one gallon plastics containers. The place buzzes with noise. Several people are touting wares for sale. Suddenly a group of about twenty youths walks into the drinking area, obviously to cause trouble. The LEADER starts to address the clients. 
LEADER Your children are starving and you are drinking. We demand freedom and our fathers are drunk. We ask you to boycott these beer halls. Revolution and drink don't work together! 
A large MAN WITH SIDEBURNS, obviously drunk, stands up, a stick in his hand. MAN WITH SIDEBURNS Since when do children talk like this to their fathers? They need thrashing. 
The man and several others advance on the boys. The boys run into the serving area, close the doors and start breaking up the place. Two police Land Rovers SCREECH to a halt outside. The boys run out through a side en- trance. They are chased by the police who are black. Jonathan and his best friend Wellington, also 15 years, are walking towards the beer hall when the boys come running out chased by the police. It is prudent for them to run down the street. The boys and police are bearing down on them. Their escape is cut off by the apperance of another police Land Rover. Two policemen, two blacks and two whites join in the capture. Jonathan, Wellington and about ten of the boys are arrested. As they are hundled into the vehicle, they protest their innocence without success and are driven away. 
INT. SOWETO POLICE STATION - CHARGE OFFICE - AFTERNOON The charge office is sparcely furnished with a long bench along a wall. There is a reception counter with Sgt: Van Zyl in charge. The boys are lined up against a wall. The sergeant stands with a tall blond man with a scar on his chin, CAPTAIN STOLZ. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: The sergeant reads out a name and    looks at Stolz; if he nods the boy stands aside. After     this ritual, the ones that Stolz has chosen are marched    to a waiting police van and driven away. The others are     taken to the cells at the police station, these include    Jonathan and Wellington. 
EXT. DUTCH REFORM CHURCH - DAY The MUSIC STOPS. The doors open. The 40 years-old- minister Bester comes to the door, then stands and greets his parishioners as they file out of the church. Amongst them, Ben Du Toit -- his wife, SUSAN, a clean- cut, immaculate, "toe-the-line" beauty and his son, Johan -- the blond, blue-eyed, tanned and torsoed fourteen- year-old every father dreams of. Susan greets friends and acquaintances, pausing to chat... mostly formalities. Johan, his eyes on a girl his age. She is with her father, Mr. Cloete, the headmaster -- she smiles at Johan from a distance; he waves awkwardly as she drives off with her parents. SUZETTE his daughter, sophisticated -- groomed. She takes her baby from the black nanny waiting in the car, carries the child to the group chatting with CHRIS, her husband. She shows it off proudly. Ben is chatting, concerned, to a WOMAN. She looks drawn and worried. 
MRS. COETZEE (WOMAN) He won't come to church. He lies in bed all day, listening to his headphones. 
CONTINUED: Examples:    "EQUAL EDUCATION NOW" "ONE MAN ONE VOTE" "FREE OUT LEADERS" "NO TO THE AFRIKAANS LANGUAGE" There are chants of slogans as they march: 
STUDENTS 'If we learn Afrikaans vorster must learn Zulu.' 'Bantu education! Stinks! Stinks! Stinks!' 'Equal education! Now! Now! Now!' They also start singing a freedom song. 
FURTHER UP STREET Three police Jeeps block the route of the march. A little distance behind are police troops carriers ('hippos'). About six police-dog-handlers in camouflage uniforms stand across the road waiting for the march to approach. 
As the march gets closer the students' singing increases in volume. The Soweto   police COMMANDANT steps forward with a loud- speaker in   hand.  He confronts the lead of the march. He signals for   them to stop. The dogs are straining at their leashes and   their handlers taunt the leading group. COMMANDANT Now listen to me, this is an illegal demonstration. I order you to disperse immediately. 
The Students start singing the African national anthem 'Nkosi Sikelele.' Children of 8, 9, 10 years singing lustily with their fists clenched as everyone else. Jonathan and Wellington singing. 
Camouflauged police scrambling out of Jeeps with guns and tear gas grenades. They stand with the rifles pointing at the marchers. The singing continues. The Commandant confers with a junior officer who hurries to the group of policemen and gives them instructions. The ones carrying tear gas move towards front. The police start donning gas masks. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: COMMANDANT This is the last warning. Disperse immediately or I will take action. A voice in the crowd shouts "Banutu education..." 
The crowd shouts back "Stinks, Stinks, Stinks." The Commandant gives a hand signal. 
Tear gas canisters are thrown into the crowd, the dog- handlers attack. There is panic with Students running in all directions, several choking. 
Some of the students start throwing stones at the police, hitting one in the face; he is helped away by a black policeman. Without warning, SHOOTING STARTS. Children drop, wounded; friends trying to help the dying and seriously wounded, others helped away. 
Some boys appear with dustbin lids as protection and they pelt the police with stones. The police in the 'hippos' are jumping off and pursuing Students, some SHOOTING. Woman grabs two of the running children age about 9/10 and hustles them into house. Jonathan and Wellington are running with      a group.  In the distance the sound of an AMBULANCE SIREN.       A Jeep cuts off their escape, they turn back running      as SHOTS are FIRED towards them, a little girl drops,      shot in the back. Jonathan shouts to Wellington who       is ahead of him. JONATHAN Wellington!   Wellington! 
Wellington looks back, sees Jonathan trying to help the little girl. He runs back to help. Another girl, aged about 17 years, is also trying to help. 
Two policemen suddenly appear from behind a house, they are about 18 years old. The girl straightens up and confronts the two policemen shouting hysterically. 
GIRL Shoot me!   Come on, shoot me! Shoot me! (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: She slumps to the ground crying. 
Jonathan, Wellington and the Girl are hustled into a crowded van amid punches and kicks from the police. The van drives off leaving the injured Girl on the road, neighbors run to assist the Girl. 
As the van is passing, see a burning car, in the distance a building on fire; another AMBULANCE SIREN. CUT TO: 
MONTAGE 
A) EXT. AFRIKAANER SCHOOL 
B) The screams, the laughter of white kids playing at their school, massed in conviviality, Johan one. C) Behind, aboard a mower, motors Gordon, in the blue overall of a groundsman, intent in his task. OVER this white pacifist content, hear... ... GUNSHOTS, SCREAMS, TERROR. D) EXT. SOWETO - AFTERNOON 
The carnage, the dead, the wounded. The stunned bewilderment of blacks and police alike... even the latter unnerved by their own brutality. END MONTAGE. EXT. JOHANNESBURG SUBURB - LATE AFTERNOON 
Soweto train rushing through suburb of Johannesburg. REVERSE SHOT FROM train. 
INT. SOWETO TRAIN CARRIAGE - LATE AFTERNOON The third-class carriage is crowded with African commuters returning to Soweto. The passengers represent all the social and economic strata of Soweto: laborers, factory workers, domestic servants, clerk secretaries, the unemployed, etc. In the carriage, Gordon, returning from work, standing. 
A LARGE middle-aged WOMAN is standing in the crowded aisle at one end of the carriage. She suddenly shouts: (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: LARGE WOMAN (to man in front of her) Careful with your bag. Can't you see where it's touching? 
MAN #1 (standing half-way down carriage) Can I see where it's touching? 
LARGE WOMAN Men of today only like looking. Laughter in the carriage.    Gordon is also enjoying the joke. 
MAN #2 (standing by a door) It's the electricity. MAN IN KHAKI UNIFORM What has electricity to do with it? A few voices also ask same question. MAN #2 Today with the electricity they say: (in an affected voice) 'Darling let's not switch off the light.' Laughter and voice saying "that's true." 
WOMAN #1 (standing very near Gordon) I hope you have electricity with those thick glasses of yours. With your eyes you couldn't find anything. 
More laughter. 
EXT. SOWETO MAIN ROAD - DAY Stanley and Gordon are driving along Soweto main road. 
A 10-years-old BOY stops the car. INT. STANLEY'S CAR - DAY 
BOY (to Stanley) Baba, I heard you're looking for Wellington. He's out, Baba. 
STANLEY Where is he?   Where is he? BOY He's with some boys at Dube's shop. STANLEY Thank you very much. You've worked like a man. (turning to Gordon) Let's go. 
Stanley turns the car round and drives off at speed. EXT. DUBE'S SHOP - DAY Wellington and a few pals are standing outside the shop -- they greet Stanley as they see the car -- Stanley shouts back greeting. STANLEY Take it easy, boys. Hey Wellington! Wellington comes to the car.   He's limping, wearing sunglasses. As he's approaching the car, Stanley opens the back door for him. 
He enters and removes the glasses. Stanley notices a deep scar from the forehead to the cheek. 
STANLEY What happened... Don't tell me... 
GORDON Did they do that to you? (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Wellington has a nervous arm-twitch... and nods to the question. 
GORDON (anxiously) I want to know what happened to Jonathan. 
WELLINGTON Isn't he out yet? (pause) I last saw him weeks ago. STANLEY Jonathan is dead. 
GORDON I have to know how he died. INT. BEN'S DINING ROOM Sizette and   Chris with the family at dinner. Suzette is passed the   Rand Daily Mail newspaper by Chris, folded at an article   headlined: "WHAT REALLY HAPPENED TO JONATHAN NGUBENE?"    by Melanie Bruwer. SUSAN Isn't that tragic? Jonathan was such a nice boy. Even played with my Johan when they were small, God. BEN And he was such a nice boy, well- mannered. SUSAN You said he was very bright at school. Chris helps himself to more.     Suzette looks at the paper. 
SUZETTE Well, this kind of journalism doesn't help the situation. Look at her face? What does she look like? CHRIS The Rand Daily Mail always exaggerates. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: She passes the paper to Ben. He looks at Melanie's pic- ture: she looks 30 years old, long black hair, large dark eyes with a fierce, unsettling, uncompromising stare, a small nose and a generous and sensual mouth. BEN Looks quite attractive to me. 
Chris and Johan laugh. BEN (he surveys the article; then with a serious tone) '... Is only the latest in scores of black youths who have disappeared whilst in police custody.' CHRIS What does she expect? They're out of control. Give then an inch and they take a hundred miles. It's in their nature. The only language they understand is force. JOHAN Chris, Jonathan was fifteen, like me. Would you use force on me? CHRIS You're not a terrorist. If you were -- like an increasing number of them, you'd deserve it. Look, every time you pick up the newspaper... 
BEN (interrupts; focusing on the paper) My God, one hundred shot! They didn't have to kill them. SUSAN This bloody Bruwer woman reports one hundred shot, but the radio said only twenty and the police were attacked first. SUZETTE I thought the idea was to give them their own areas, banstustans. Let them live with their own kind. No chance of conflict then. Everybody's happy. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: JOHAN And who would do the work? 
SUZETTE Pardon? 
JOHAN The work, who'd do it? SUSAN You for a start. Come on!    Help me clear these dishes. As Johan stands, to clear the table. He turns to his father with a smile, and shrugs -- an irritated Suzette joins them. 
INT. GORDON'S HOUSE (SOWETO) - NIGHT The small dark room is crowded. The one oil lamp -- on the table -- At the table sits Gordon... his glasses on the end of his nose. Emily is sitting by the stove.      Robert stands beside her chair, watching, listening. The youngsters are sleeping in opposite directions on the iron bed. 
Wellington is sitting beside Gordon at the table. There is something wild in his manner. He looks everywhere as if he is scared of being attacked unawares. The black cleaner from John Vorster Sq. stands near the table. Gordon is reading aloud from a handwritten document. 
GORDON 'On the second day of our detention at John Vorster Square we were taken to one of the top floors. We were ordered to undress and they started to beat us with fists and sjamboks. This for a long time.' 
Wellington nods and gets more paranoid. The black cleaner puts an understanding hand on his shoulder. GORDON 'On one day me and Jonathan...' 
Gordon pauses... steadies himself... pushes his glasses up his nose... clears his throat... 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: GORDON '... We were asked questions for the whole day and night by Capt. Stolz and different policemen -- they never stopped. They tried to force us to say we were the leaders at our school, that we were working for the A.N.C. and got money from overseas. Capt. Stolz wanted to know the names of the students committee and where he can find Toni Mtimkulu -- Everytime they asked question, they beat us. It was bad beating.' 
Wellington nods again.    Emily closes her eyes to shut out the image. GORDON 'We told them we had done nothing and didn't know about all the things they are asking us; on two occasion they put a wet bag over my head and I -- couldn't breathe -- I thought I was going to die. One day I heard Jonathan being beaten. He was screaming and crying, and then a noise like tables and chairs being knocked down, and Capt. Stolz shouting "you bastard, get up, do you hear me?" Ngubene, don't pretend here, get up." Then the next day I heard he had gone to hospital and I never saw him again.' There's a long silence. Gordon closes his eyes and struggles with his grief. Emily sobs, Robert looks on in anger. Then, finally, Gordon offers a pen to Wellington, who is about to sign the foot of the state- ment, when... 
... Suddenly there   is the sound of a TRUCK APPROACHING. Wellington rushes   to the front window and peers outside; then panics, fear   in his eyes, he runs into a bedroom and jumps through the   window. 
Everyone in the room is bewildered. The front door bursts open. Emily sits impassively look- ing at the five policemen (two whites and three Africans). 
CONTINUED: Ben smiles and Cloete goes into the office. 
The woman approaches Ben... talks to him... they both turn back to see... ... Emily standing there, a soaking headscarf tied native- style around her head. 
Ben thanks the woman and crosses the yard. BEN What's happened, Emily? EMILY (calmly) I'm sorry, Baas... but it's Gordon. EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - DAY ... Stanley is waiting in his car.     His sunglasses on his nose... ... The SCHOOL BELL RINGS to give the end of the tea inter- val. Ben walks out with Emily to Stanley's car. Stanley gets out, they stare at each other. Finally Stanley breaks the silence. STANLEY (putting out his hand) How's it? I'm Stanley! I heard about you! Ben feels a little uncomfortable. EMILY This is Stanley Makhaya... He helps us all the time. Stanley opens the door to Emily. 
BEN Don't worry too much, Emily, I'm sure Gordon will be home in a few days. 
Stanley slaps the door with a big laugh.     He gets into the car and drives away. CLOSE ON BEN 
perplexed. 
INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - JOHN VORSTER SQUARE - DAY Gordon stands facing the wall, his arm raised.    He has wetted his trousers. 
Captain Stolz is pacing behind him. Lieutenant Venter, sitting on the edge of the desk, is smoking. 
STOLZ Come on, Kaffir, talk! GORDON Please, I've done nothing.   All I tried to do was to find... Stolz interrupts him with a blow to his face.    As Gordon drops his hands, the officer shouts to him. 
LIEUTENANT VENTER Up with those bloody arms! STOLZ We don't like gramophone records here! Now who has been giving you informations? 
Gordon doesn't answer. The Lieutenant walks slowly to him, calmly removes his fag-end of cigarette from his lips and stubs it on Gordon's neck. LIEUTENANT VENTER (very calmly) Why don't you answer the Captain, han? He walks back to his place. 
Captain Stolz opens the door and shouts: STOLZ Johannes!    The bag! 
Gordon has a look of terror. Immediately a black security policeman walks in with a bag. 
STOLZ All right. 
Johannes goes to wet the bag in a bucket in a corner. 
Lieutenant Venter grabs Gordon, throws him onto a chair and handcuffs his hands behind the chair. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Stolz is supervising. 
The Lieutenant places the wet bag over Gordon's head and ties it. Gordon starts groaning and wriggling. 
CUT TO: INT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - DAY 
Under the gaze of a uniformed POLICEMAN in a bulletproof glass cage, Ben fills in a slip, then hands it to the Policeman, who then makes a phone call. 
Whilst waiting, Ben notices a video surveillance camera. 
Just then, a 20-year-old African girl, Afro-style hair, is brought in held on both sides by two white policemen. She is taken into a lift. Ben watches them enter the lift and follows the progress of lift to the 10th floor. The Policeman stamps the slip and gives it to Ben. POLICEMAN Somebody will meet you on second floor. Ben enters a lift. INT. INTERROGATION ROOM (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - DAY Gordon's still sitting on the chair, slumped -- Johannes removes the handcuffs as the Lieutenant removes the wet bag. Gordon is breathing heavily and semi-conscious. 
Suddenly Captain Stolz punches him heavily on the face. Gordon drops on the floor with blood gushing from his nose and mouth. Captain Stolz grabs him by his collar. 
STOLZ (hysterically) Come on you bloody black bastard. Who has been telling you lies? 
The PHONE RINGS.    Stolz drops Gordon and walks to answer. 
STOLZ (calmly) I'll be down immediately, Colonel. CUT TO: 
INT. VILJOEN'S OFFICE - DAY Behind the large desk, Colonel VILJEON replaces the tele- phone receiver; there is a KNOCK on the door -- and a young policeman ushers in Ben. Colonel Viljoen stands and ex- tends a hand. VILJOEN Come in, Mr. Du Toit, come in. How do you do? They shake.   He's a large, friendly man, ruddy face, gray crew cut. 
BEN Nice to meet you, Colonel Viljoen. 
VILJOEN I used to watch you play for the Transvaal. You were one of the great wing forwards. BEN (grinning) Long time ago. 
STOLZ We told him how his son died, Mr. Du Toit. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Ben turns back, surprised. 
VILJOEN You have a son, Mr. Du Toit? The Colonel looks up at him... the first sign of steel in his eyes... then back to the papers. 
The noise starts again behind Ben. VILJOEN Does he burn and destroy -- everything he can lay his hands on?... No -- and neither does mine. That's what I can't understand... after everything the government does for them. (looks straight at Ben) Think about it, Mr. Du Toit. We're for you, not against you. BEN (irritably) I've never doubted it, Colonel. It's you who appear to be doubting me. These questions.   You're making me feel like a criminal. There's a moment's pause -- then a burst of laughter. VILJOEN I'm sorry, Mr. Du Toit... I'm sorry. It's force of habit. Once a policeman, always a policeman, eh? More laughter -- Ben joins in.    Viljoen stands, signalling an end to the meeting. EXT. BEN'S CAR - DAY 
Johan is sitting, waiting, in the parked car... the RADIO ON. He's bored. INT. COLONEL'S OFFICE 
VILJOEN ... As soon as we're satisfied he's innocent, he will be released. We know what we're doing, Mr. Du Toit. You want your wife and that boy of yours to sleep safe tonight, don't you? (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Ben nods, smiles, makes for the door, turns. 
BEN One last favor, Colonel? VILJOEN Fire away! 
BEN Gordon's wife -- she's very worried. May she bring him some food and a change of clothes while he's still here? VILJOEN No problem!    Thank you for your help... BEN Thank you.    I'll rely on you, then. VILJOEN Will you find your way out? 
BEN I think so. And thanks.    I feel much happier now. VILJOEN Good! And give my regards to your father-in-law -- tell him we'll have a drink sometime -- maybe go to a game. 
BEN I will.   Goodbye. 
And the door shuts behind him. There's silence for a moment... Viljoen staring at the closed door -- Stolz looks expectantly at him. 
VILJOEN (pointing up) Is the little bird singing yet? 
STOLZ I'm working on it. VILJOEN Good. 
Stolz leaves, shutting the door behind him. CUT TO: 
EXT. JON VORSTER SQUARE Ben opening his car. Johan is sitting in the front seat. As Ben gets into the car, he glances at the John Vorster Square building. INT. BEN'S CAR - DAY 
Ben is motoring through and out of Johannesburg.    Johan is silent beside him, impatient. BEN I talked to them. Gordon will be released soon. The colonel was very understanding. JOHAN Did you see Gordon? 
Ben suddenly realizes that he didn't ask to see Gordon. BEN (embarrassed) No. JOHAN Did they say anything about Jonathan? BEN No, but... Johan, he is dead. We can't do anything for him. Don't mention this visit to your mother. Okay? INT. DU TOIT KITCHEN - NIGHT Suzette and Susan in the kitchen arranging the dessert tray. The kitchen is surprisingly neat. LAUGHTER is coming from the dining room. SUZETTE What extra-mural interest? 
SUSAN Champion of political detainees! 
Ben comes in to open extra bottles of wine, hears Susan's line. SUZETTE (laughing, turns to Ben) Is that right, Papa? (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: BEN That's right, Suzette. But, only one detainee: 'Gordon!' SUZETTE Our Gordon? 
BEN That's right. SUZETTE (disbelieving) My God. What on earth for? Susan leaves the kitchen without a word, with the dessert plates on the tray to the dining room. 
INT. DU TOIT HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT Susan reaches VIVIERS and the minister DOMINEE BESTER, with their dessert plates. The candles have burned down amid the detritus of dinner: glasses disarranged and dirty, the cloth spotted with food and wine and ashes. In addition to Viviers, dateless, and Bester and his wife, the school's headmaster, Cloete and his wife. INT. DU TOIT HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT Ben hastily uncorking a bottle of wine while talking to Suzette. SUZETTE It must be a mistake, Papa. 
BEN Of course it is. I went down there, told them. They're looking into it. SUZETTE Went down where? 
BEN John Vorster Square. 
Suzette giggles, amazed. 
SUZETTE You old devil you. Does Ma know? 
BEN No. And you're not going to tell her. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: A pause.   She looks at him. 
SUZETTE Be careful. I don't want my favorite Papa in trouble, Gordon or no Gordon. 
CLOETE Then he's got nothing to worry about! VIVIERS Except his three teeth. Our government mustn't allow such things to happen. After all, it's a Christian government. (turning to Bester) What do you say, Dominee? Bester doesn't answer. 
BEN (irritably) I'm not talking about the government! I believe in our government, damn it... His sharp tone surprises everybody.    He quiets. 
BEN ... Look, I know the police often know more than we do. I'm not questioning that. I'm as loyal as the next man. But I do know Gordon Ngubene... there is something wrong. 
There's a moment's embarrassed silence, broken by Suzette's entrance with a tray of glasses and a bottle of brandy. SUZETTE (putting the tray in front of Ben) Anything else, Papa? (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Ben starts pouring, and offers the first glass to Bester. 
BEN Dominee? Bester shakes his hand. 
BESTER Nee Dankie. Ben hands the glass to Viviers. 
Immediately Viviers raises his glass and laughingly says: VIVIERS Oom, Ben, may your problems be small ones! INT. INTERROGATION ROOM (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - DAY Gordon is undoing his trousers. Venter roughly drops the trousers and pushing him to the floor. He handcuffs him while Johannes pulls off the trousers and underpants, and manacles his ankles. Johannes fetches a rod. Venter goes to a cupboard, pulls out two electric wires with electrodes attachments and places them on the desk. All the preparation is done with practiced efficiency. From the adjoining room there are angry shouts of a woman. 
Venter and Johannes place the rod between Gordon's elbow- joints and the back of his knees. The door opens. Gordon has a look of terror on his face. 
CAPTAIN STOLZ (O.S.) Sorry I'm late. 
Captain Stolz enters carrying a thickish file under his arms, goes straight to the desk and sits down. CAPTAIN STOLZ Johnannes, the table. 
Johannes moves the table in line with the desk. Lieutenant Venter and Johannes lift the trussed Gordon and the ends of the rod between the desk and table. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: LIEUTENANT VENTER You're a heavy shitface. Too much mealie porridge! Captain Stolz holds Gordon by the head and swings him like a pendulum. 
STOLZ How do you feel today?   Ready to fly? 
Very calmly Captain Stolz pulls out some papers from the file. STOLZ (pointing one sheet of paper) Yes, Mister Ngubene, we know about this Wellington... and... (pointing another affidavit) ... We know about him... and him ... Now, we want the names of the others. And today you're going to tell us. The WOMAN in the next room SHOUTING louder than before -- that one is a real and tough activist -- 
STOLZ (to himself) Bloody woman. (to Johannes) Water! As Johannes is fetching the bucket of water.        Venter goes to the cupboard and stays there. 
LIEUTENANT VENTER 'Samson' is ready, Captain, shall I switch him on? 
Johannes empties the bucket over Gordon.     Stolz attaches the terminal to Gordon's earlobes. 
STOLZ (to Venter) Okay.   Gert! Gordon is given a short burst of electric shock. 
GORDON (reacts) Hai! 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: STOLZ That was a small taste of 'Samson.' We have a whole day... A knock at the door. 
STOLZ ... Kom! A black policeman in uniform.       JOHNSON SEROKE, enters with a letter in his hand. 
STOLZ What do you want? 
SEROKE A letter for you, Captain. Stolz goes to take the letter and turns to place it on his desk. He notices Seroke still standing. STOLZ What are you bloody-well waiting for? SEROKE No reply, Captain? STOLZ Get out of here. Seroke leaves. STOLZ (to Gordon) Now about these affidavits who told you to collect them? The A.N.C.? Who recruited you? Gordon mumbles something. 
STOLZ What? He bends forward to hear, and Gordon's swollen, puffy eyes hold his gaze. 
GORDON I don't know anything about the A.N.C. 
STOLZ You've had your chance.    Now you're going to shit. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: STOLZ (CONT'D) (to lieutenant in Afrikaans) Reg gert. (Okay, Gert) Gordon suddenly shakes violently and shouts repeatedly. 
GORDON Hai!   Hai!   Hai! INT. DUTCH REFORM CHURCH - MORNING 
STANLEY (with a mischievous smile) You got to go? Of course, Lanie... the last farewell. But we have to be careful. 
INT. STANLEY'S CAR - DAY Stanley drives sportingly as he talks to Ben, seated in the back. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: STANLEY We expected it. 
BEN How can you talk like that!? STANLEY A guy gets picked up by the S.B... he's part of history, man. BEN You mean you had no hope, you didn't believe he'd be released? STANLEY Hope's a white word, Lanie... It's not hope we need. 
There's silence for a moment. BEN Well, thank God Emily has you to lean on, Stanley. STANLEY Emily is like my sister... We go back many years. BEN Do you belong to the xhosa tribe too? STANLEY I am an African. That's all! (looking through the rear mirror) Comprende? BEN I am an African too! Stanley turns abruptly. 
STANLEY What? BEN I was fourteen before I wore shoes -- except for church... I grew up on a plaas miles from any town... watching sheep and... STANLEY (interrupts) Bullshit! Next you'll have me believing we grew up in the same country, same laws, same freedom, same everything! (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: He laughs. 
EXT. SOWETO BORDER - DAY STANLEY (like a tour guide) We are now about to leave the white jungle and entering the land of love and glory. The car approaches a huge perimeter notice: 
"YOU ARE NOW ENTERING SOWETO TOWNSHIP.    NO PERSON WITHOUT THE NECESSARY PERMIT IS ALLOWED..." 
Ben is driven into a different world; children playing in dirty streets, in wrecks of cars, open spaces devoid of vegetables, smoke from large rubbish dumps, burnt-out skeletons of buses, beer halls and buildings. Clusters of policemen in battle dress patrolling in the distance. BEN So this is Soweto. 
STANLEY (like an actor, with big expansive gesture) Land of love and glory, Lanie! (turning suddenly to Ben) But watch out for the police and army. They're patrolling all the time. 
The car follows an isolated broken stretch of tarred road hill cluttered with rusty tins, cardboard containers, bottles. 
EXT. FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY A group of young children playing under the blinding sun in a muddy ditch, notice the big painted butterfly on the hood of Stanley's car. They wave and scream at Stanley in their language and he screams back at them. 
Two little girls start running, heading toward the car. Stanley notices the red VW parked in a corner. He man- euvers and parks his car nearby. 
STANLEY (opening door) Hurry up, Lanie. 
BEN'S POV A modern funeral parlor with its name painted on the side: "MOROKA FUNERAL DIRECTOR (PTY) LTD." 
BACK TO SCENE Stanley notices the two little girls with dusty smiling faces, standing there waiting for him. 
STANLEY (checking his pants' pockets) No sweets today. I'm sorry, babies. The children give Stanley a coy disbelieving look as they watch him go with the "white man." 
CHILDREN'S POV On the doorstep of the funeral parlor: Stanley and Ben run into a young woman coming out with a shoulder bag and a camera. The young woman and Stanley exchange a quick, friendly greeting -- it's MELANIE BRUWER, the Rand Daily reporter -- and keep moving. BACK TO SCENE 
Ben turns back for a moment. Her face seems familiar to him. He would like to talk to her, but there is no time. Stanley is already inside. INT. FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY Ben and Stanley follow the proprietor who is expensively- dressed in a dark suit. Gordon's coffin stands as one of many in the room. Inside the casket, brass fittings, white satin, lies Gordon, incongruous, ludicrous in a black Sunday suit. His hands are crossed on his chest like the claws of a bird and his face, barely recognizable, is gray, the left side distorted, blackish purple. 
There are rough stitches of the postmortem across his skull and a scar on his lips. Stanley speaks in an African language to the undertaker. The man opens Gordon's shirt and reveals the bruised and battered chest. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
Stanley observes Ben who looks at the wounds with horror. 
Then another command from Stanley and the undertaker opens the shirt to the waist. Ben's ashen. Stanley thanks the man and turns to leave. Ben remains a minute. He shuts his eyes tightly. Now he saw it. Now he must believe it. He must accept that this battered corpse is Gordon. As he follows Stanley, he thanks the undertaker. 
EXT. FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY 
Outside the "sunlight," the children's laughter and Stanley, hands in pockets, waiting for Ben by the car. 
The same two little girls approach Stanley who gives them some coins -- they run off happily. Ben is coming outside blinking in the glaring sunlight. Stanley glares at Ben, who is pale, shaken and silent. They get into the car in silence. STANLEY (turning to Ben) 'The living close the eyes of the dead. The dead open the eyes of the living.' 
Stanley starts the car. BEN Please, take me to Emily. 
Stanley looks at him. STANLEY Look, we'd took one hell of a chance to get here, let's not push it. BEN I really have to see her, Stanley. Stanley drives off. 
She turns and walks into the house, leaving Ben. 
EXT. SOWETO CEMETERY - MORNING The large Soweto cemetery has scores of graves ready for burials. The chief mourners, Emily, Robert, his sister, Margaret, four relatives and Stanley are standing on either side of the PRIEST. Gordon's coffin is in the grave; several wreaths are on the side of the grave. 
There are about fifteen hundred mourners, and half are youths. There are several local reporters and overseas television reporters. The police are in attendance in large numbers at the edge of the crowd, some in battle dress and some with dogs. PRIEST Before I conclude, I have to say we are tired of making this journey every day, sometimes twice in one day, burying our children, and those, like our departed brother, Ngubene who were merely seeking the truth; and those who have been denounced by traitors amongst us; and those who have been brutally killed for no reason, yes I shall say it, by the police. Let those who rule this land of ours listen to the word of God; let them listen to our peaceful and just demands; let them be humble and go down on their knees and seek forgiveness, then listen to God. The crowd roars:   "Amanda!   Amanda!" The Priest starts a short hymn and the crowd joins in. 
At the end of the hymn. PRIEST We will have a few words from Mr. Pilani our father and leader. The crowd starts singing a freedom song with arms raised. The funeral has now become a political demonstration. 
Mr. Pilani, who is a dignified, educated 70-years-old, walks slowly and waits beside the chief mourners. He is handed a loudspeaker. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: A SENIOR POLICE OFFICER threads his way through the crowd, a loud hailer in his hand. As he reaches the grave he turns. The crowd is quiet. He says something to the Priest then addresses the crowd. SENIOR OFFICER The funeral is over. I order everyone to go home. This is not a political rally. I repeat, disperse. 
As though by signal the police start attacking the mourners with truncheons and dogs. There is pandemon- ium, women screaming, people falling into graves or covering in them. 
The Priest and Stanley lead Emily and the family away in the opposite direction. The press and television are recording the scene. The police start throwing tear gas canisters. There is no confrontation, the crowd is fleeing in all directions. One television cameraman is purposely pushed into a grave by a very young policeman, his round recordist is pulled up into the adjourning grave by the connecting cord. Melanie stands on a tombstone watching and making notes. INT. BEN'S LOUNGE - NIGHT Ben, Susan watching the main evening news bulletin on TV. On the screen a sequence of rioting. 
COMMENTARY (V.O.) Despite repeated warnings young blacks attacked the police with rocks and petrol bombs. Five policemen were injured. Susan briefly glances at Ben. 
COMMENTARY (V.O.) Several arrests were made. One youth was killed and five wounded. 
Follows the newscaster and then reports: NEWSCASTER (V.O.) This morning there was a serious disturbance at the funeral of Gordon Ngubene. Susan leaves the room. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: NEWSCASTER The detainee who committed suicide by hanging himself at John Vorster Square. An overseas television cameraman broke an arm during the disturbance. It's been reported that several people had been killed by a car-bomb in Belfast Northern Island... Ben turns OFF the TV and stays in his thoughts. 
EXT. JOHANNESBURG - STREET - AFTERNOON Stanley and Ben are driving in the outskirts of Johannesburg. 
EXT. APPROACHES OF SOWETO - AFTERNOON Stanley drives seemingly alone at very high speeds, which he maintains through the streets of Soweto... using his horn to scatter people out of his way, to the anger and indulgence of others. 
The CAR SCREECHES to a halt outside Emily's house. Stanley gets out of the car and greets the startled neighbors... and acknowledges the friendly shouts of children. 
Stanley looks around, then goes back to the car, opens the back door, leans and says something. Suddenly, to everyone's astonishment, Ben crawls out of the car; Stanley hustles him into Emily's house. 
Stanley waves at the people, a sign of assurance, then closes the door behind him. 
INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON Ben stands awkwardly for a moment, taking in the room and the people in it. He then walks over to Emily who is standing at the table. He goes to shake her hand. BEN How are you, Emily? 
EMILY Well, thank you, Mr. Ben, sir. Eh, that's father Masonwane, our priest, and that's Margaret from next door. 
Ben nods at them.    Stanley sits himself down. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: STANLEY (raising his hand in greeting) Mfundisi... (priest) ... Sisi! (sister) 
EMILY (to Ben) Please sit down. Take this chair, the other one is broken. BEN (apologetically) I didn't mean to disturb you. I've come to talk to you. EMILY (as she sits on the broken chair) Yes, it's good. What I want to know is why did they kill him. He didn't do them nothing. You know, Mr. Ben, sir, I washed his whole body for he was my husband. And I know a man who killed himself, he doesn't look like that. 
MARGARET Master, you must understand she's still raw inside. BEN I'm sure. Robert walks in, looks at Ben and walks into his bedroom to fetch something, then as he's about to go out: EMILY Robert, where are you manners today? Don't you greet visitors? Robert stops momentarily and looks at Ben with hostility and hurries out of the room banging the door. 
EMILY I'm sorry for his rudeness. PRIEST (to Ben) You have to understand what's happening to our children today, they're like wasps when you burn their nest. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MARGARET That's right. Our children are saying 'that's enough!' Things have to change in this country. They accuse us of being cowards. 
BEN Emily, I have really come to assure you that I will do all I can to help you find out what really happened to Jonathan and your husband -- we cannot bring them back to life, but we can make sure that this sort of thing won't ever happen again. 
PRIEST You mean well, sir, but it's better to forgive. If we keep the pain alive then hate and bitterness will remain with us. BEN The air must be cleared.   So we can breathe again. PRIEST The air can only be cleared if we forget about yesterday's thunder. EMILY Mr. Ben is right. It's not that I want to go on with this thing because it's a bad thing that Jonathan died, that Gordon died that's hard enough to bear, but I can forgive it. But they covered Gordon's name with dirt and we must clean it up, else he'll never have peace in his grave. 
STANLEY (to Ben) You must understand for us, suicide is a coward's way out, how do they say, it's a 'cop out.' BEN Gordon wasn't a coward and we'll prove that. We have a very good advocate for the inquest. His name is De Villiers. I have confidence in him and the truth will come out. (CONTINUED) 
DR. JANSEN Some were fourteen to twenty days old, others three to four days and others even more recent. 
DE VILLIERS Even more recent. I see. I understand you had a Dr. Hassiem present at the autopsy. 
DR. JANSEN That's correct. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: DE VILLIERS There were two reports, ours and his. Did they tally? DR. JANSEN Yes, it was.   In most respects. 
ON Stanley listening. DE VILLIERS Isn't it normal practice to have one report? Why did Dr. Hassiem decide to draw up a separate report? If he really co-signed yours. 
DR. JANSEN That's for him to answer! DE VILLIERS I would very much like to, Dr. Jansen, but he's been detained -- you know of course that he represented the Ngubene family. Thank you. There's a murmur around the court... Ben looks across at Viljoen who returns his gaze -- smiling. 
CUT TO: DR. HERZOG the police physician, giving evidence. DE VILLIERS Dr. Herzog, did you examine the deceased? DR. HERZOG Yes, one day Captain Stolz called me in. The man had toothache. DE VILLIERS (aggressive) That's all? 
DR. HERZOG (uncomfortable) As far as I could tell -- yes. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: DE VILIERS You didn't examine him thoroughly? 
DR. HERZOG Why should I? The man was perfectly healthy, just complaining of toothache. I extracted three decayed teeth, and gave him aspirin for the pain... that's all. 
DE VILLIERS Did the captain or anyone else assist you during the examination? 
DR. HERZOG (hesitates) I... I cannot remember. DE VILLIERS (more aggressive and accusing) Dr. Herzog, tell us. Have you been intimidated by the Security Police or did you deliberately cooperate with them in playing their disgusting little game of hide-and-seek? 
LOUW (jumping up from his seat) I protest, Your Worship. 
MAGISTRATE Advocate De Villiers, will you refrain from insinuations? 
DE VILLIERS Thank you, Doctor Herzog... I'm sure Gordon Ngubene was extremely grateful! Herzog's face is impassive. 
ON crowd reacting. 
MAGISTRATE Advocate Louw? 
During the hubbub De Villiers and the state advocate trade places. The courtroom is quiet. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: LOUW Thank you, Your Worship. I'd like to call Captain Stolz. There's a buzz from the spectators as Captain Stolz walks up to the witness stand. He's given a Bible. 
ON Ben -- watches him. CLOSEUP - STOLZ 
In witness box, swearing in Afrikaans. LOUW You're a police officer stationed at John Vorster Square? 
STOLZ That's right, Your Worship. LOUW You arrested Gordon Ngubene. Could you describe what happened? 
STOLZ Acting on information we had received, I went to the house of the deceased, accompanied by Lieutenant Venter, Lieutenant Botha, and three native members of the security force. This was about 10 P.M. I informed Ngubene that he was under arrest under Article 6 of the Terrorism Act. He then became violent and resisted arrest. A certain force had to be applied to restrain him. 
ON Stanley listening. ON Ben listening. 
STOLZ We found several incriminating documents. These pointed to his involvement with the A.N.C. and activities endangering the security of the state. 
ON Ben looking at Stolz, and shaking his head, bewildered. LOUW Was the deceased ever assaulted to your knowledge? STOLZ Never. He was always treated with courtesy and correctness. But, one time we had cause to use force against him. It was the day before his death. The deceased suddenly showed signs of aggression. He tried to jump through the open window of my office. He was acting like a mad man. It took six of my men to restrain him, and he had to be manacled hand and foot, for his own safety. But once he calmed down, he was ready to make a statement about his activities. The next morning we found him dead in his cell. MAGISTRATE Is the statement in evidence? LOUW No, Your Worship. It can't be disclosed in court without damaging our investigation, but I would like to offer into evidence a suicide note written by the deceased. Louw, taking it from his file on the table. Stanley and Margaret listening. 
LOUW 'Dear Captain. I prefer to die rather than betray any more of my friends. Amandla! Gordon Ngubene.' He hands it to the court clerk.   There's uproar at this. 
LOUW Thank you, Your Worship. MAGISTRATE Advocate De Villiers? 
(CONTINUED) 
BEN It's obvious to anybody! The evidence is clear! (pause) Did you see Archibal's back? He didn't have to tell the truth. 
Dan Lewinson's dry laugh catches in his throat. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: LEWINSON That's what Stolz is saying to him right now in his torture room. CUT TO: 
INT. COURTROOM - AFTERNOON 
Advocate De Villiers and a dignified Emily in the witness stand. 
EMILY Captain Stolz lied. My husband never fight the police when he was arrested. They were rough with him, pushing him and threatening. DE VILLIERS When your husband's clothes were given to you, in what condition were they? EMILY There was blood on them and in the back pocket I found three broken teeth. DE VILLIERS Now Mrs. Ngubene, you have seen the note that's said to have been written by your husband. Do you recognize the writing? 
EMILY (firmly) That's not how my husband writes. (strongly) He never wrote that letter, they lie. 
DE VILLIERS Thank you, Mrs. Ngubene. MAGISTRATE Advocte Louw? 
He shakes his head. EMILY (facing the Magistrate and in firm voice) They killed my husband and son. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: ON Ben, satisfied. 
MAGISTRATE (to a policeman next to Viljoen) Will you take the woman out? 
DE VILLIERS I'd like to call my last witness. Grace Nkosi. 
Grace's name is called. She is an attractive 20-years- old girl. As she passes by Ben, he watches her with concern; her face looks familiar. Of course he remembers having seen her at John Vorster Square the first time he went there to meet the colonel. GRACE NKOSI is the African girl the two security officers were lifted to the ten flour. He recognizes her. Grace Nkosi in the witness stand. She swears in Xhosa. DE VILLIERS Were you ever detained? GRACE Yes sir, at John Vorster Square. 
DE VILLIERS For how long? GRACE Six months. DE VILLIERS Can you tell us what happened to you during that time? GRACE I was interrogated by many special policemen, but mainly Captain Stolz and the one they call Venter. As they were searching somebody I know, they wanted me to tell them where that person was hidden. As I refuse to cooperate they beat me with a sjambok. After some time I fell and they kicked me in the face and stomach. 
ON Ben obviously shocked. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: GRACE I spot blood and they try to make me lick it. Then Captain Stolz threw a wet towel and started twisting it around my neck... (she illustrates) ... until I lost consciousness. They did this several time and the last one Captain Stolz said 'come on meid, speak up, or do you want to die like Gordon Ngubene?' A few days later I was released. ON Melanie taking notes. 
DE VILLIERS Thank you, Miss Grace. That's all, Your Worship. LOUW (rising and looking at Grace for some seconds) You made that up. Say you made it up. GRACE It's the truth. I have nothing more to say. Louw sits down. MAGISTRATE We shall adjourn until tomorrow morning. I'll hear the arguments and give the verdict. 
The crowd stands and starts to leave the courtroom. DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. COURTROOM - MORNING (SECOND DAY) A silent black crowd; Emily, Margaret, Stanley anxiously awaiting the verdict. Today the public gallery is more crowded than before. MAGISTRATE I wish to thank both advocates for conducting this case without rancour and in the best traditions of the South African legal profession. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: ON Ben's face.    ON Dan Lewinson's face.   ON Viljoen and Stolz's faces. 
MAGISTRATE I have listened to all the evidence and the arguments. To begin with I have to say that there was no conclusive evidence offered to prove beyond doubt that members of the Security Police had been guilty of assault or any irregular conduct on the deceased. There were indications that Ngubene was aggressive and on more than one occasion had to be restrained with force. There was sufficient evidence to conclude that death had been caused by a trauma following pressure applied to the neck, consistent with hanging. Consequently, I find that Gordon Ngubene committed suicide by hanging himself and that on available evidence his death cannot be attributed to any act or omission or amounting to a criminal offense on the part of any person. 
CUT TO: Viljoen and Stolz smiling, shaking hands with Advocate Louw in congratulations. 
CUT TO: INT. FOYER OF COURTROOM - DAY 
The predominantly black crowd obviously dissatisfied with the verdict, discussing it as it moves slowly towards the main entrance. 
In the crowd Stanley, Margaret and Emily controlled, dignified but obviously pained. 
CUT TO: 
BEN totally depressed, walking up to Emily. 
(CONTINUED) 
BEN Please.   A... 
MELANIE (interrupts, mischievous) A brandy? 
BEN (looking at her surprised, then smiling) No thanks, a beer will be fine. 
Melanie goes into the kitchen leaving Ben. He cannot forget what he heard and what he saw in the court! 
She returns barefooted, with two beer mugs, and hands one to Ben. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MELANIE The mugs are the few things that Dad brought from Germany. He studied philosophy in Tubingen and Berlin before the last war. 
BEN I thought they were German? Melanie sits, her legs propped up on the settee, hugging her knees. 
MELANIE Mr. Du Toit, tell... 
BEN (interrupts) Please, call me Ben. MELANIE All right, Ben, tell me, why are you so depressed? You really expect a different verdict? 
BEN (disgruntled) Why do you ask? Can you understand it? 
MELANIE Of course I understand it. What could they have. I'm not cynical. I'm only trying to be realistic. 
BEN Tell me, Miss Bruwer... 
MELANIE Ben and Melanie, that's fair. BEN Tell me, do you believe in the notion of justice? MELANIE (lighting a cigarette) I'll never stop believing. But in this country I've learned it's pointless to look for it in certain situations. 
BEN What use is a system if justice does not apply to all situations? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MELANIE Exactly. And you cannot fight for justice unless you know injustice very well. You've got to know your enemy first. 
BEN That's a tall order: 'know injustice... know the enemy.' it seems I have a long haul ahead of me. 
MELANIE Not at all, Ben. You have already taken the first steps. (pause) Welcome to South Africa! She smiles. INT. BEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Susan is sitting at the dressing table. She is applying cleansing cream to her face. She is relaxed. Ben is getting ready for bed. SUSAN Did you enjoy the 'bobotie?' When I heard the verdict on the news I knew you'd be upset. (softer) I wanted to make you something special. 
BEN (thoughtful) Thank you, darling. 
A pause.     Susan starts to remove the cream. SUSAN I'm glad it's all over. You take things to heart too much. Ben comes and stands behind Susan -- looking at her through the mirror. 
BEN (trying to keep control of himself) They killed Gordon -- first they kill Jonathan, and then him. How can they get away with it? (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: SUSAN (soothingly) Now come on, Ben. Gordon's death upset me, too. But the Magistrate had all the facts. He must know what he's doing, he's had years of experience. The case has run its course, and nobody can do anything more about it! It's all over and done with. 
BEN (looking at her) I'm not so sure about that, Susan! 
Susan swivels around and faces Ben. 
SUSAN I'm damned well sure! It's over, Ben! You better get that into your head. Ben just stares at her with seething anger.       She stands up and starts being hysterical. SUSAN A teacher, always a bloody teacher. You never moved yourself for us. But for the blacks, oh yes. Whose side are you on, Ben? And I'm sick and tired of those natives coming here. Why don't you bloody well go and live in Soweto? 
Ben strides out of the room. SUSAN (following and shouting) Now where are you going? BEN (without looking) Soweto! Then shuts the door behind him. 
Susan stands stupefied.    There's the sound of the SPARE ROOM DOOR. INT. SPARE ROOM - NIGHT 
Ben is standing in the middle of the room, in the dark. On the wall behind him is a young Suzette's picture. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: After a few seconds, Ben moves slowly to the bed and sits on it still in deep thought. 
SLOW MOVE TO a: CLOSEUP ON BEN 
BEN Did you read the papers, Dominee? Were you happy with what came to light? And is it the Magistrate's work to pretend that the facts which came to light didn't exist? BESTER Was it really facts, Ben? Just then the African "HERDBOY" walks up to them taking off his lattered greasy hat. BESTER Ja?   What is it Tom? TOM (HERDBOY) Does the Baas want me to bring the bull now? BESTER Later, Tom. TOM (HERDBOY) Dankie, Baas. 
Tom hurries away. BESTER I bought a bull last week. BEN I know, Gordon. What they said about him, that he was plotting against the government -- is a downright lie. He was only doing what I would have done as a father; searching for his son. 
BESTER No one but God can see what's in our hearts. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: BESTER (CONT'D) Isn't it presumptuous to pretend we can speak for someone else? BEN Have you no faith in your fellow men, Dominee? Don't you love your neighbor? BESTER (confronting Ben) Wait a minute, instead of criticizing blindly, don't you think we have reason to be proud of the judiciary we have?  suppose this had been Russia; what do you think would have happened then? BEN What's the use of reaching a court when a handful of people have all the power to decide what is going to be said in that court and by whom? The one man they allowed to speak for himself, that young Archibald Chigorimbo, didn't he immediately deny everything they forced him to say in his statement? And the girl who spoke of her own torture? 
CUSTOMER PAGE 99 MISSING 
BEN That did not refer to our situation in this South Africa. Do you know what I believe in, Dominee, that once in one's life, just once, one should have enough faith in something to risk everything for it. BESTER One can gain the world and still lose one's soul. Tea must be ready. Bester and Ben walk towards the house still in conversation. 
INT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - MORNING The staff is having coffee during morning break in the staff room. The room has several easy chairs, a table with the morning newspapers on it. The walls have pictures of South African scenes. There are several conversations in Afrikaans.   This is the first morning since the photograph. 
Ben walks into the staff room. The conversations stop. Everyone looks at him with hostility. The teachers all place their cups on the table and quietly file out of the room. Ben pours himself a cup of coffee; as he takes his first sip, Cloete looks in, sees him. He walks in. 
CLOETE I hope you don't mind us talking here. BEN I don't mind, Mr. Cloete. CLOETE I'll come to the point. You can't imagine how shocked I was by that scandalous photograph in the Ossewa. 
BEN The woman lost her husband, she was shattered with grief. CLOETE A Kaffir woman, Du Toit. BEN (angrily) I can't see that it makes any difference. 
CLOETE Have you gone color blind then? And what about the apartheid laws? Our first responsibility as teachers is the reputation of the school, the pupils entrusted to us. We have to be an example to them in and out of this school yard. 
Ben looks at him calmly. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: CLOETE I thought I had warned you about involving yourself with Kaffirs. Obviously you didn't heed my advice.  That's all I have to say for now. 
Cloete walks out of the room. Viviers hurries into the room, he is late for his coffee. 
VIVIERS 'Morning, Oom Ben. 
BEN (acknowledging greeting) Viviers. VIVIERS (pouring coffee) Private coffee with Cloete? 
Ben picks up the copy of the Ossewa with the photograph and shows it to Viviers. EXT. MELANIE'S HOME - DAY 
Ben stops the car in the Bruwer driveway. From the driving seat he searches the garden for Bruwer. He walks up to the front door and knocks, but there's no reply. He goes 'round to the back and finds the old man on his knees weeding his vegetable garden. BEN Good afternoon, Professor. BRUWER (looking up) Melanie isn't home. You are... BEN Ben Du Toit. You have a nice vegetable garden. 
BRUWER You mean the area or the produce? 
BEN Both.   What plants are these? (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: BRUWER What's the world coming to? It's herbs, can't you see? Thyme there, oregano over there, feunel next to the tomatoes, sage here and rosemary somewhere. Poor plants, they re not in their ideal soil or climate. Next time, I'll bring some soil from the mountain of Zeus. Perhaps the old man's holiness will do the trick. 
He throws down the small weeding-fork. BRUWER Come, you are just the person to sample my greengage wine. I don't suppose you've ever tasted it? I'm sure I'm the only person in the country making greengage wine. He leads Ben to the two old chairs by the back wall. He enters the kitchen and returns with a bottle of greengage wine and two glasses. BRUWER (as he pours) The first bottle this year, and you don't have to tell me if you like it or not. Tell me, did you ever study philosophy? BEN Not really.   I've read a few books. BRUWER (taking a sip) Not bad, in fact quite good. Now where was I... Oh, I was going to say after decades of philosophy, I find myself being forced back to the earth. Do you know, Ben, we're all living in the spell of abstractions. Hitler, apartheid, the great American dream, the lot? 
BEN What about Jesus? 
BRUWER Misunderstood. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: BRUWER (CONT'D) (referring to the wine) You don't have to finish it. BEN (lying) It's quite nice. BRUWER Melanie has told me a little about you. It's not an easy road you have chosen. BEN I feel I have no choice. 
Bruwer farts loudly, Ben is taken aback, but the Professor continues. BRUWER Of course you have a choice. Damn it. One always has a choice. Only thank God you made the choice you did. But all I want to say is, keep your eyes open, young man. BEN That's encouraging. BRUWER We are both Boers, Ben. We know how hard our people worked to get a toehold on this land; it was a good life. Now look at the mess. It's all systems and no God! Sooner or later people start believing in their way of life as an absolute: unmutable, fundamental, a precondition. Saw it, with my own eyes in Germany, a nation running after an idea. Sieg heil, sieg heil. I left there thirty years ago because I couldn't take it any longer. And now I see it happening in my own country, step by step. Terrifyingly predictable. This sickness of the great abstraction. 
He farts and sips his greengage wine. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: Ben is so fascinated by the old man's conversation he didn't react. He is learning form his old Afrikaner. 
BEN What you say is very interesting and important. 
BRUWER Take for example the way the government is handling the electorate; like a bloody donkey. Carrot in front and kick at the backside. The carrot is apartheid, Dogma. The kick is quite simply, fear. Black peril, red peril, whatever name you want to give it. (pause) Fear can be a wonderful ally, Ben. I talk too much, I always do with younger people, they don't fall asleep to me. BEN (laughs) We Afrikaners have to stop to turn a blind eye and look around us and at ourselves. 
INT. BEN'S LIVING ROOM - DAY The search continues in the living room.        Susan is standing pale, rigid, shocked. STOLZ Mr. Du Toit. If you're keeping anything from us, we can turn this whole house upside down if we want to. We have all the time in the world. SUSAN (throwing Ben a warning daggers look) I'm afraid I don't understand. 
Nothing from Stolz. One of the men starts to roll up the carpet to look under it. Susan has to move out of his way. 
BEN (gently to Susan) Why don't you go upstairs? STOLZ I'm afraid she has to stay where we can see her -- in case she wanted to warn someone. SUSAN My father's an M.P.!   Warn who? 
CONTINUED: EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - DAY 
All four tires of Ben's car have been slashed to ribbons. INT. BEN'S GARAGE - DAY 
Ben and Johan are there. 
Ben takes a file from under a toolbox and measures it carefully against the drawer base. Then, he selects a piece of wood approximately the size of the drawer and tries it for size. We should be in no doubt that's he's constructing a hiding place. 
INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - AFTERNOON Susan is preparing a roast. There's music from a trans- istor RADIO. Susan is startled by a voice, her father's (Ben's FATHER-IN-LAW). She turns OFF, the RADIO. FATHER-IN-LAW Roast beef, I hope it's like your mother's. SUSAN (happy) Papa! He is aged about 70 years, thick set. She rushes to him and he hugs her tightly and practically lifts her off the floor. She kisses him. 
SUSAN Where's Mama? 
She disentangles herself and goes to the living room as excited as a child, the mother is standing by two cases, smiling. 
Susan hugs her. SUSAN Mama! 
She holds her mother at arm's length inspecting her. SUSAN The perfume and a new hairstyle. 
MOTHER Your father insisted that I don't disgrace you. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: SUSAN (hugging her again) I expected you a little later. FATHER-IN-LAW She insisted we start early. Where is Ben? 
JOHAN (walking in with golf club bag) In the study. I'll get him. FATHER-IN-LAW Have you put on weight, Susan? 
SUSAN Please don't say that, Papa. Ben walks in. BEN Sorry.   Didn't hear you arrive. 
He shakes hands with Father-In-Law. FATHER-IN-LAW How are you, Ben? 
BEN Fine. He goes to MOTHER-IN-LAW.        He kisses her on the cheek. 
BEN And how are you, Ma? 
MOTHER-IN-LAW (MOTHER) Well, Ben, still have trouble with my feet. 
BEN Why doesn't everyone sit down? SUSAN I'll prepare some tea.     I baked a cake. She goes to the kitchen. 
EXT. LOCAL GOLF COURSE - SUNSET 
Ben and Father-In-Law are having a drink after a round of golf, outside the club house. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: FATHER-IN-LAW I'm getting tired of the trek to Cape Town and then back to Pretoria. If I had my way, Parliament and government would be in the same city. There's nothing wrong with Pretoria. 
BEN I thought you'd prefer Cape Town; the sea and Table Mountain. 
FATHER-IN-LAW That's for   holidays. Anyway, Ben, one of the   reasons for this visit was that I   wanted to have a discussion   with you. BEN What about? FATHER-IN-LAW It's that photograph in the papers. Ben, a thing like that could be an embarrassment for someone who is a member of Parliament. It's a grievous day when one's family's behavior comes between him and his duty to the fatherland. BEN Are you blaming me for trying to help those people? FATHER-IN-LAW I've been doing that all my life, be they black or white. But no member of our family has been seen with a Kaffir woman before, Ben. 
Father signals the African waiter for more drinks. BEN I am glad you mentioned it, Father. Because I'd like to discuss the whole thing with you. First, there's the matter of Gordon Ngubene himself. 
FATHER-IN-LAW What about him? I thought the case was closed. (CONTINUED) 
INT. STANLEY'S CAR - NIGHT Ben and Stanley driving in Soweto. 
It's a different city by night. The dark seems to soften the violence of the confrontation, hiding the details which, by day, assault and insult the eyes. There are several GUNSHOTS in the distance. The only light comes from the small, square windows of the innumerable houses. 
STANLEY Did you hear that, Lanie?     More kids dying? 
Ben says nothing. Further on there's a group of people outside a house.        As they pass they hear HYMN SINGING from the house. 
BEN What's happening?   What's the singing? STANLEY A wake for a child; eight months old. She was sleeping and they threw tear gas into it. They drive on. CUT TO: INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT Ben, Stanley and Emily are sitting    'round the table. Ben has pulled the lamp closer to read    one of two notes from Gordon -- one is written on ruled    paper, the other a square of toilet paper. The notes     have been smuggled out of John Vorster Square. 
GORDON (V.O.) (shakily) 'My dear wife, you must not worry about me. I miss you and the children. You must look after them in the fear of the Lord. I'm hungry, and I don't know what they want from me. But I think I'll be home some day. I think about...' They are interrupted by a KNOCK at the door. Emily snatches the notes and stuffs them into her bosom. Everyone is tense as Emily slowly walks up to the door. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: She opens it and   a man with a hat and dressed as a min- ister walks in.    Before anyone can say anything, Stanley bursts out in a   loud laugh. The man is slightly built, aged 40 years.    He is JULIUS NQAKULA. STANLEY On your knees, everyone, prayers time. Ben is perplexed.    Emily closes the door and locks it. 
STANLEY Hey man, you should have been a mfundisi holiness oozer... 
JULIUS (removing this hat) Okay, Stanley. It's stupid, but one is forced to do these things. He walks up to Ben and offers him his hand. JULIUS I'm Julius Nqakula... I'm banned and also under house arrest. That's why I have this ridiculous garb on. BEN I understand. STANLEY He's one of the most solid lawyers we have; they've immobilized him, that's the right word isn't it? 
He laughs. BEN Stanley has told me about you. I appreciate the risk you are taking by coming here to meet me. I was reading the notes Gordon smuggled out of John Vorster Square... 
JULIUS May I have a glance at them? Emily produces the notes. Julius takes them. He starts reading the toilet paper, which is harder to read. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: GORDON (V.O.) (speaking with great difficulty) 'My dear wife. I am still in these conditions... worse... and too much pain. They don't want to believe me. You must try to help me. They won't stop. You must care for the children. I don't know anymore if I will come home alive. They're very -- (a word mumbled) -- but God will provide. I love you and I miss you very much. Try to help me because...' 
The voice breaks off. JULIUS (to Emily) When did you get the letters? EMILY (uncomfortable) The first one two days after they took him away. And the other one came later. BEN But, Emily, why didn't you tell me long ago? EMILY I had given my word to the man -- who brought them to me -- BEN Emily, I have to meet the man. EMILY He said he didn't want anybody to know who he is. I cannot make trouble for him in his work. BEN He has to be persuaded.   He is very important to us. EMILY (to Julius) You as a lawyer will understand. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: EMILY (CONT'D) We intend starting a civil suit against the police, to do that it is necessary to have as many affidavits as we can from people who have any information about Gordon since he was arrested. And this man is vital and so is the Indian doctor. JULIUS You mean Dr. Hassiem. How are you going to do that? You know of course that he is detained. 
BEN I know, with luck they may release him. JULIUS With luck. BEN But, Emily, this man is important, please try to tell him we will protect his identity. No one will know. Nothing will be done without his approval. I only want to talk to him. JULIUS Why don't you leave it to Stanley and I? What do you say, Stanley? 
STANLEY Sure. 
BEN May I call you Julius, I'm not very good with some African names. 
STANLEY (laughs) Nqakula, that's a hell of a name. 
JULIUS Please call me Julius. BEN This case must be reopened and we must win. We have to dig up everything. We need your cooperation, Julius. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: JULIUS Where do I start? Don't forget my restrictions. STANLEY They did not ban you so you could sit on your backside and have a Soweto holiday. BEN You could help with the affidavits. Lewinson the lawyer has stressed their importance. JULIUS We know each other. He's a good lawyer for this kind of case. Of course I'll do what I can. My commitment forces me. BEN I'm glad. JULIUS How   are you planning to safeguard the   documents? Stanley told me you   have already had a said by the   S.B. 
BEN I wouldn't worry.    I have a secure place. STANLEY Let's hope so. EMILY I'll make some tea. STANLEY Not for me, Sis -- too strong for me. No whisky? EMILY In my house? You know better than that, Stanley. 
STANLEY Tea then... (turning to Julius) ... and God forgive me -- 
CUT TO: 
INT. BEN'S GARAGE - EVENING Ben is standing by the workbench, the new drawer he and Johan built for the toolbox, open before him. 
He's rereading Gordon's letters to Emily. Sound of approaching FOOTSTEPS. Ben quickly puts the letters into the drawer and shuts it. 
Susan appears at the door -- she looks ten years older. SUSAN Ben, it's Johan. You'd better come. INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - EVENING 
Johan sits, Ben crouched before him.   The boy's shirt is torn, his eyes swollen, his lip cut.   He looks at the floor. Susan hovers. SUSAN He won't tell me why it happened Ben holds his son's arms, gently. BEN Johan.   Was it because of me? He doesn't answer for a moment.   Then he nods. SUSAN You see! It's gone too far, Ben. You've got to stop it... 
JOHAN (shouting at his mother) I don't care! It doesn't hurt me! Susan stares at him, at Ben, turns abruptly, walks out of the room. Johan looks at his father. 
JOHAN It was my friends, Dad. They're so stupid... They won't listen. They don't even want to know what you're trying to do. He's crying. 
CONTINUED: VILJOEN Now wait, wait a minute, Mr. Du Toit, you're not trying to blame me? BEN Tell me, Colonel, why is it so important to you people to stop my enquiries about Gordon Ngubene? VILJOEN Is that what you are doing? (he pauses) Well, now. If you possess any information that may be of use to us, I trust you won't hesitate to discuss it with me. He leans forward towards Ben, his tone darkening. VILJOEN Because if there are facts you are deliberately hiding from us, Mr. Du Toit -- If you give us reason to believe that you may be involved in activities that may be dangerous to both yourself and us -- then I can foresee some problems. BEN Is that a threat, Colonel? VILJOEN (smiling and sitting back) Let's call it a warning. A friendly warning. For God's sake, open your eyes, Mr. Du Toit! Don't you see you're being used! 
BEN (sarcastically) By the Communists, I suppose. 
Ben gets up to go.    The colonel doesn't rise to see him out. BEN Goodbye, Colonel. (at the door, turning back) I'm sure. He leaves.    The colonel immediately picks up the phone. 
EXT. BEN'S KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING A 40-year-old African woman walks up to Ben's kitchen door. She knocks. 
Ben opens the door in pyjamas and dressing-gown.    She hands him a note and leaves. 
Ben reads the note and goes back into the house. 
EXT. STREET IN VREDEDORP - MORNING Vrededorp is a colored section of Johannesburg. It's rundown area vacated by whites. There are children play- ing in the street. Some unemployed men are sitting on old chairs outside a doorway; a vendor is serving two women from his milk churn. 
Ben drives into the street   searching for an address. He stops outside a house. As    he gets out of the car the children and everyone stop   to look at him with interest. He walks up to a door and   knocks. A COLORED WOMAN appears as the door opens.    She is young and obviously educated. 
COLORED WOMAN Mr. Du Toit? Ben nods, hesitatingly. 
COLORED WOMAN Please, come in. Ben walks into the living/dining room. It's a    very tidy room with a three piece sitting room suite, a   sideboard with a clock on it. At one end of the room is    the dining area. The floor is linoleum and covered with    a rug in the middle. 
Stanley is lounging on a settee, beer in hand. On the chair next to him a black man in a brown striped suit, drinks orange squash. Thirtyish, pleasant face but very tense. He rises as Ben walks in. STANLEY (rising and shaking hands with Ben) How's it? No trouble finding this place? You met Sadie. She's one of us. 
Ben nods to her. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: STANLEY And this is Johnson Seroke.    The man of the letters. BEN (nodding in greeting) Johnson. 
SADIE (COLORED WOMAN) Please sit down, Mr. Du Toit. A beer, tea or orange squash? 
BEN A beer would be nice. 
Sadie goes to a cupboard and brings out a bottle of beer and a glass. She opens the beer and hands it to Ben. She disappears into the bedroom with a curtain at the door. STANLEY You know they call this place Vrededorp, but we baptize it Malay Camp. Your first time in Malay Camp, Lanie? BEN I've driven through here many times. STANLEY The main road, eh? BEN (smiling) Ja. 
The woman re-enters. SADIE You'll excuse me. Stanley, you know what to do with the key. STANLEY Sure, Sadie. And thank you. Can I help myself to another beer? 
SADIE You know it is. Goodbye, Mr. Du Toit, and you, be careful. 
To the Seroke. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: SEROKE (trying to smile) Okay, Sadie. Sadie leaves. 
STANLEY That woman can die for you. We mustn't be long, Johnson has to be back on duty. 
BEN Alright, let's get on with it. Stanley tells me, you work at John Vorster Square. 
SEROKE I had no choice, they transferred me there. BEN Yet you smuggled out letters to Emily? 
SEROKE (pulling the fingers of his left hand one by one cracking the joints over and over) What do you do if a man asks you, and he's in trouble? STANLEY If they find out he'd be in very big trouble. BEN I know that. Tell me, what do you know about Gordon? SEROKE Very little. BEN You did talk to him from time to time? 
SEROKE He gave me the letters. 
BEN When was the last time you saw him? (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: SEROKE Just before he died. 
BEN Did you attend any of the interrogations? 
SEROKE No. I'm not a member of the Special Branch. But once I had to deliver a letter to Capt. Stolz, Gordon was there. BEN (concerned) How were they interrogating him? 
BEN And then you became a journalist? 
Melanie goes to the living room, as she passes Ben she touches his arm and continues talking. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: MELANIE (O.S.) I thought it would force me, or help me, to expose myself. To force me to see and to take notice of what was happening around me. 
BEN Did it work? She returns to the kitchen with a cigarette. 
MELANIE I wish I could give you a straight answer. What did help me was my wanderings in Africa. 
BEN How did you manage that on a South African passport? We South Africans are white devils in Africa. MELANIE My mother was English, remember? So I get a British passport. It comes in handy even for the paper. BEN You really are your father's daughter! MELANIE I wonder what he's doing right now. Most likely standing on a rock, looking through his old binoculars at springbok or a lion or whatever. One of the two large CATS approaches them, tail in the air, and goes to Melanie, drubbing against her legs, PURRING luxuriously. She picks it up into her arms. BEN How often does he go on these trips to the veldt? 
MELANIE It depends -- (approaching Ben with cat) -- Bonjour, Ben. I'm Porto and my friend is Bello! Ben smiles and starts to caress Porto in Melanie's arms. 
EXT. SOWETO - EMILY'S HOUSE - MID-MORNING Parked outside the house is a municipality truck already half-laden with Emily's furniture and possessions. Four Africans in khaki overalls are loading the truck -- super- vising the eviction of Emily are a white Soweto official, Captain Stolz and Lt. Venter. In the b.g., a hundred yards away is a "hippo" with black and white armed policemen. Behind the truck are two police Land Rovers. 
Emily is sitting outside on one of her chairs as neighbors walk up to her to comfort her and say their goodbyes. Her daughter is carrying the youngest child and standing next to Emily -- several children are watching. A woman in the crowd starts singing a freedom song: "UMZIMA LOMTHWALO" ("THIS BURDEN IS HEAVY"). The song is taken up by the other women. 
Venter tries to stop them and disperse them. Stolz signals to him to leave them alone. One of the Africans then walks up to her for the chair. She refuses to get off the chair. The man looks at the white official as though to ask "what do I do." The official looks at Stolz. Venter walks up to Emily and, about to pull her off the chair. 
EMILY Don't you touch me! Venter pulls back. The women start to ululate. Emily rises majestically, takes the youngest in her arms and walks slowly to the truck followed by her daughter. People cluster around her, singing with rage and shaking her hand. Stolz observes the scene, impassive. WOMAN (V.O.) Come back!    Buya! CROWD (shouts) Buya!   Buya! Emily and the children are helped onto the back of the truck which drives away preceded by the police "hippo" and escorted from the rear by the Land Rovers. The crowd continues singing. 
EXT. STREET - MORNING 
Ben is leaving his home. This is a Saturday morning. Two men are sitting in a car a few yards from the entrance to the house. Ben doesn't pay attention to them. When he is about twenty yards past, one of the men, Jaimie -- who was present when Gordon was arrested -- gets out of the car and follows Ben. Ben stops at a corner for a car and again the FOOTSTEPS stop. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: He turns furtively and sees the man, stopped, turning his head. Ben decides to turn the corner, and listens to the FOOTSTEPS. The man is still following. Ben then decides to turn right back to have a good look at the man. They pass each other and Ben takes a good look at him and turns back onto the streets to the local shops. The man decides not to follow. 
INT. BEN'S STUDY - NIGHT Ben and Stanley sit. Ben on his desk. Stanley in an armchair with a drink. They look perplexed. STANLEY (irritated) She's a widow, man. That's what happens in Soweto when a woman loses her man. They throw her out of the house and out of the city. BEN (disgusted) Zululand! The whole thing smells of being an excuse to send her hundreds of miles from the case. And how will they live there?... STANLEY Shit! I was about to find her a place, but I had to go to look for Robert. BEN So, that's why you went to Botswana for. STANLEY Sis Emily asked me but it was no use. His mind was made up. He was going to join Wellington in Zambia. 
BEN Couldn't you stop him?   He's a little boy, Stanley! 
Stanley gulps down his whisky and stands up. STANLEY (focusing Ben in the eyes) He'll be back in a few years.     And he won't be throwing stones! Then, puts the empty glass on the desk. 
INT./EXT. STANLEY'S HOUSE - EVENING Stanley peers through the curtains: he sees a car parked outside the house. In it Jaimie and another S.B. They are watching the house. Stanley quietly opens the door and walks outside. EXT. STANLEY'S HOUSE - EVENING 
Stanley walks past his car and approaches the policeman. STANLEY (using his usual humor) Good evening. I'd like to invite you into my humble home, but it's full of terrorists. 
The two policemen get out of their car, obviously angry. JAIMIE (pointing at Stanley's car) Open the boot! You cheeky bastard! STANLEY Okay, with pleasure. They search and find nothing. JAIMIE Open the door and remove the seat. Stanley executes the order. Jaimie and the OTHER POLICE- MAN peer in, their eyes sweeping the car. 
OTHER POLICEMAN Now, your pass, bliksem. 
Stanley   produces his passbook and hands it to the Police- man who   inspects the pages laboriously, then throws the book to   the ground. Stanley doesn't pick it up and just watches   the man. 
JAIMIE You watch your bloody step!     Right? 
They return to their car and drive off. Stanley looks at them thoughtfully, then picks up his book. EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - MORNING 
All the students are in classes. Cloete walks        out of a classroom and sees Capt. Stolz walking towards       the build- ing. Cloete stops to wait for him. They shake         hands and walk to Cloete's office talking affably. They        enter office. 
INT. BEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Ben and Susan in bed, asleep. The PHONE RINGS... waking them both. Ben answers. There's no one there. He puts it down. The RINGING STARTS AGAIN. Ben puts the re- ceiver down. SUSAN (calmly) Ben, please stop whilst there's time. Please, Ben. BEN (focusing on ceiling) It's impossible to stop now, Susan. I believe I'm right in what I'm doing. If I stop now I'll go mad. 
SUSAN (despaired) Whatever the price you pay for it? BEN (painfully) I have got to. 
Susan shuts her eyes tight and turns her back on him to hide her tears. DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. CLOETE'S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON It's a functional office. Picture of the South African president (1976) John Vorster, on the wall. Various staff pictures... Ben, summoned by Cloete, sits. CLOETE Think of your heritage, man. My God -- think of your wife, your family, friends, neighbors. What's going to happened to them -- all of us -- if we can't depend on our own kind? We're educationalists -- teachers. We are building for the future. 
DR. HASSIEM Dr. Jansen and I didn't disagree on the facts. After all we examined the same body in the same time. But just on the interpretation. For example, if Gordon, had really been hanged, the marks on his throat would have been concentrated on the front. (he touches his larynx) But in this case, the bruises were more obvious on the sides. Pause.   Ben nods, silent. DR. HASSIEM Something else really upset me, perhaps it isn't important. BEN What was it? 
Dr. Hassiem puts down his daughter. DR. HASSIEM (leaning forward) You see, through a misunderstanding I arrived at the morgue too early for the autopsy. There wasn't a soul around except a young African attendant. When I told him I'd come for the autopsy, he let me in. The body was on the table dressed. I noticed blood on the clothes. 
BEN And then? 
DR. HASSIEM As I examined the clothes more closely, a police-officer came in and said I wasn't allowed in the morgue before Dr. Jansen arrived. When I returned with Dr. Jansen, half an hour later, the body was naked. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: BEN (excited) Doctor, we've already got the African attendant's affidavit. He testified that Capt. Stolz ordered him to burn the clothes. (pause) Did you mention what you said in your report? DR. HASSIEM Of course.   I found it most odd. BEN Doctor Hassiem would you be prepared to put that in writing? 
Dr. Hassiem thinks it over for a while then: DR. HASSIEM Please excuse me for a minute. Ben watches him leave the room, the little girl following him. He gets up from the chair, walks to the window, glances through it, then steps to look at some family photographs on the mantlepiece. Amongst them a photograph of Dr. Hassiem before "Big Ben." Dr. Hassiem returns with a file, the daughter still following. 
DR. HASSIEM (opening the file) This is my report. I only have one copy. 
BEN (astounded) You have a copy of the report? 
Hassiem grins. DR. HASSIEM I know how to hide things from the S.B., Mr. Du Toit. Ben congratulates him by a deep laughter. 
CUT TO: INT. HASSIEM'S OFFICE - DAY 
Ben and Dr. Hassiem working as a team, tape the type- written sheets of the report among a Rand Daily Mail newspaper pages at the back. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: On Dr. Hassiem's desk we recognize next to the phone, the little girl's photograph. 
DR. HASSIEM I hope you have as secure a place as I have. 
BEN (with an accomplice smile) I think so. 
INT. BUILDING IN CONSTRUCTION - LATE AFTERNOON A multi-storied building half-built. Stanley standing on the fourth floor watching Ben's arrival. 
Ben searches for Stanley who draws Ben's attention; beckons him up. Ben indicates they meet halfway. He joins Stanley who's sitting on a pile of bricks. STANLEY (with expansive gesture) Take a pew, man. BEN (sitting and excited) We have it, Stanley! STANLEY Have what? BEN Hassiem's report. You know what that means, Stanley? Melanie arrives in two days. We'll have all the evidence. Everything is in place. We'll get them yet, especially Stolz. STANLEY That's fantastic, man. 
Stanley produces from his jacket pocket a newspaper -- Rand Daily Mail. He opens it on a certain page with the picture of an African in police uniform, and hands it to Ben. 
BEN (shocked) God!   It's Johnson Seroke. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: STANLEY Late at night. A knock on the door. He opened and five shots, point-blank range. Face, chest, stomach. 
BEN (reading) 'A police spokesman when questioned said: "It's not the first time that a black member of the police has lost his life in the service of his country, fighting terrorism." (folding paper in disgust) Bloody bastards! They killed him. Stolz must have thought he knew too much. STANLEY What's the score? The nurse is detained; the mortuary attendant has disappeared; the police van driver who brought Jonathan to hospital is detained. Julius is in jail, and now Johnson dead. BEN Who's next on their secret list, I wonder? How much longer must the list grow of those who pay the price of our efforts to clear Gordon's name. 
STANLEY Hey! Are you going soft, Lanie? We must keep going even more so now. And for every bloke who's going to die of bloody natural causes in their hands. And for our children's future. 
BEN I know. If I can no longer believe that right is on my side, if I can no longer believe in imperative to go on, what will become of me, Stanley? Ben looks at Johnson's picture again and shakes his head. 
INT. BEN'S STUDY - DAY A 8x10 black and white photograph on Ben's desk. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: On the photograph a naked man and a girl on a bed and a bedside lamp on its side. The man is Ben and the girl is Melanie. Stolz in sports jacket, standing next to the desk is speaking... patronizing. 
STOLZ We're all made of flesh and blood, Mr. Du Toit -- we've all got our flaws. And if a man likes to sample the grass on the other side of the fence, well, that's his own business. But it would be unpleasant if people found out about it, especially if he's a teacher. BEN You mean, if I cooperate, if I stop digging, embarrassing you, threatening you... these photographs will disappear. 
STOLZ Let's just say I may be able to use my influence to make sure that a private indiscretion isn't used against you. BEN Suppose I refuse? Stolz looks past Ben. STOLZ Is this your son? 
Ben whirls around to see Johan at the door. He shoots, puts himself between the photograph and his son obviously surprised to find Capt. Stolz there. 
BEN Johan, leave us alone, please. 
