THE BREAKFAST CLUB 
Duck Soup (1933) 
Screenplay by 
Harry Ruby, Bert Kalmar and Grover Jones 
The story begins with an opening shot on the exterior of the executive mansion.  It is a gala day.  Soldiers are lined up in front of the entrance; expensive cars and carriages are arriving and depositing distinguished notables from the adjoining countries.  Two trumpeters at the head of the stairs announce the arrival of each notable. 
In the large reception hall, Mrs. Teasdale, wife of the late president, is greeting the newcomers.  The room is filled with distinguished guests.  At the moment we see Mrs. Teasdale, she is talking with a notable.  In the near background is a group of distinguished men, members of her own cabinet.  Her words to the notable are not lost on them, and as she begins to praise the new dictator, there is the exchange of disapproving glances. 
MRS. TEASDALE It is so good of you to come. 
NOTABLE An honor, Mrs. Teasdale...  You must indeed have great faith in your new dictator to give him such a magnificent reception. 
MRS. TEASDALE I feel that Rufus T. Firefly is the only logical successor to my dear departed husband.  He has the statesmanship of Gladstone, the humility of Lincoln, and the wisdom of Pericles. 
The notable kisses her hand once more and leaves the scene. As he does, the background group moves into Mrs. Teasdale. Their spokesman addresses Mrs. Teasdale. 
FIRST CABINET MEMBER (Protestingly) Mrs. Teasdale, as members of Freedonia's cabinet, we do not approve of your choice.  Who is this Rufus T. Firefly? 
SECOND CABINET MEMBER (Waving aloft a paper) A stranger in our midst, an agent for the Eureka Ammunition Company. Think of it, Gentlemen, an ammunition salesman dictating the policies of our peace-loving country. 
THIRD CABINET MEMBER Reconsider, Mrs. Teasdale, before it is too late.  The citizens of Freedonia want a President! 
MRS. TEASDALE As the widow of your last president, I have the right to choose -- and, Gentlemen, I refuse to discuss the matter any further. 
Mrs Teasdale turns her back on them, leaving them to mumble among themselves. 
From off scene comes a servant's voice, announcing: 
SERVANT His Excellency, Ambassador Verdi Trentino of Amnesia! 
Cut... to the archway.  We see Trentino enter with a beautiful brunette at his side.  He is followed by two or three of his fellowmen.  He moves across the reception hall to Mrs. Teasdale, bows most graciously and presses his lips to the back of her hand, then introduces his companion. 
TRENTINO Mrs. Teasdale... my niece, Vera. 
Mrs. Teasdale shakes the girl's hand warmly. 
MRS. TEASDALE (To niece) Your uncle has been such a friend to us in every crisis.  Without his country's financial aid -- 
TRENTINO (Lightly) What is money? (Tenderly) Mrs. Teasdale, for you -- I would do anything. 
MRS. TEASDALE (Flustered) Ambassador! (Attempting to change the subject) I am so anxious for you to meet our new dictator. 
This finishes on an operatic note with everybody with outstretched hands turned toward the main door that connects the reception hall with the outer hall. 
Groucho doesn't appear and once more they all sing. 
ALL (singing) Hail, hail, Freedonia... Land of the brave and free. 
Again Groucho fails to appear and they all sing once more. 
ALL Hail, hail, Freedonia... Land of the brave and free. 
Mrs. Teasdale exchanges an apprehensive glance with Bob. Vera and Trentino smile. 
MRS. TEASDALE (Nervously) I hope nothing has happened. 
BOB Mrs. Teasdale, I assure you there is nothing to worry about.  Father is probably taking extra care in getting into his robes of state.  I'll call him. 
Bob goes over to a corner of the room and pulls a tapestried bell cord.  This rings a fire bell in Groucho's room -- and Groucho is disclosed asleep in his canopied bed under a mosquito netting.  He has an unlighted cigar in his mouth. The continued jangling of the fire bell awakens him from his slumber and he rises quickly.  The cigar begins to emit smoke when he starts puffing.  He hurries over to one corner of the room where his clothes are arranged in fireman fashion, gets into them, and then sides down a fireman's pole into the reception hall. 
The guests are singing the last two lines of the national anthem when he arrives. 
ALL Hail, hail, Freedonia... Land of the brave and free. 
Groucho starts across the hall in the direction of Mrs. Teasdale.  He passes several notables, one of whom is wearing an impressive looking medal.  Groucho deprives him of it without stopping his forward movement, and pins it on himself. He pauses only when he is facing the principal group. 
MRS.  TEASDALE (Beaming as she addresses Groucho) As chairwoman of the reception committee, I welcome you and extend the good wishes of every man, woman and child of Freedonia.  I deem it an honor on this momentous occasion... 
GROUCHO (Interrupting) Never mind that stuff... 
He takes a pack of cards from is pocket and extends them to Mrs. Teasdale. 
GROUCHO Take a card. 
The bewildered Mrs. Teasdale complies. 
Groucho puts the other fifty-one cards in his pocket. 
MRS. TEASDALE What'll I do with this card? 
GROUCHO You can keep it -- I've got a whole pack...  Now what were you saying? 
MRS.  TEASDALE As chairwoman of the reception committee, I welcome you with open arms. 
GROUCHO How late do you stay open? 
MRS. TEASDALE In choosing you, I feel that I serve my country well.  I heartily endorse everything you stand for. 
GROUCHO (Throwing her a glance) And Vera niece, too. 
VERA Your Excellency, please don't think me silly, but I'd love to have a picture of you.  I want to hang it in my bedroom. 
GROUCHO You couldn't hang me in your bedroom -- I'll make a note of it.  Where's my secretary? (Looking around) 
Bob (ZEPPO) enters scene. 
BOB Here I am, Father. 
GROUCHO (To Bob) Take a letter. 
BOB (Taking out a stenographer's pad and pencil) Who to? 
GROUCHO The President of the United States. 
Bob writes as Groucho dictates 
GROUCHO My dear President...  read it back... 
BOB (Reading from pad) "My dear President"... 
GROUCHO That doesn't sound right...  take out "President"...  now read it. 
BOB (Reading) "My dear"... 
GROUCHO That's not right yet... put back "President" and take out "dear"... How does it read now? 
BOB (Reading) "My President"... 
GROUCHO There's still something wrong with it... take out "President" ...now what've you got? 
BOB (Reading) "My"... 
GROUCHO Now we're on the right track... Put back "dear"... How does it read? 
BOB (Reading) "My dear"... 
GROUCHO You can't say that to the President... Put back "President"... Now let's hear how sounds. 
BOB (Reading) "My dear President"... 
GROUCHO That's what I wanted in the first place.  Tear it up and send it airmail. 
BOB Is that all? 
Groucho does a dance with Mrs. Teasdale who joins him reluctantly and registers embarrassment as dance continues. He might finish dance in her arms, looking tenderly at her as she beams down at him. 
MRS. TEASDALE (As she beams on him) You've made a wonderful impression. Your views are liberal... It is easy to see you have an open mind. 
GROUCHO That's what I get for dressing in a hurry. 
MRS. TEASDALE Your Excellency, you mustn't forget your appointment at the House of Representatives... Have you got your speech ready? 
GROUCHO I wrote a speech last night that'll knock them off their seats... (He takes a paper from inside pocket as he says above... then reads from paper) Four score and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation -- 
MRS. TEASDALE Why, that's the speech that Lincoln made at Gettysburg... 
GROUCHO (With a look of great surprise) He did?... I told my son not to leave it laying around... Where is son? 
Bob enters 
BOB Here I am, Father... 
GROUCHO Send for my car... 
BOB (Calling to servant off scene) His Excellency's car! 
This is repeated by a servant's voice off scene... 
A servant enters to Groucho, bearing his high silk hat. 
He bows low as he hands it to Groucho... Groucho takes hat, removes a white rabbit, hands it back to servant, dons his hat and with a swanky gesture exits... again we hear a servant's voice calling: "His Excellency's car"... 
We see the trumpeters at the top of the steps of the mansion, outside, standing at attention... their trumpets at their sides... 
From inside comes the voice of a servant calling "His Excellency's car"... 
The trumpeters click their heels, draw themselves erect, put the trumpets to their mouths and blow a fanfare to summon the car... 
We cut to the Exterior of the Dictator's garage.  This is a pretentious affair.  In central foreground a wall, in the center of which is a large wrought-iron double gate.  On each side of the gate is a crest or design in relief.  Also two liveried guards stand erect before the gate.  A trumpeter on the wall above.  Through the gate we see the patio and suggestions of the garage.  Two or three high-class cars in background identify the garage. 
At the beginning of the scene, we hear finish of trumpeter's call.  Instantly the two guards move to the center of the gates and call through the bars - 
GUARDS (In unison) His Excellency's car! 
Almost instantly there is a terrific roar of motors on the other side of the wall.  The two guards open gates moving in military manner.  Immediately the gates are wide open, Harpo appears on his motorcycle, that carries a side car. 
The motorcycle is decorated... perhaps a crest in relief on the side of the car...  a thin staff, about four or five feet high is fastened to the handle bars...  As Harpo rides along, he hoists the Freedonian flag to the staff.  Further along the road he hits a man... he looks behind to see what damage he's done, but continues riding... A CUT BACK to the man shows that he is lying prostrate on the ground. 
We CUT BACK to Harpo, who is just getting off motorcycle... he takes another look back at the man, lowers the flag to half-mast, takes bugle, which is hanging on his car and blows a few bars of taps... he mounts motorcycle again and starts off... 
BOB I object!...  we have no right to discuss this matter in the absence of my father. 
SPEAKER (To House) We have been meeting every morning for eight days and not once has His Excellency been on time... 
TRENTINO (Looking at his watch) Gentlemen, I cannot wait much longer... 
SPEAKER (To Bob) Would you mind calling your father again? 
Bob presses a button, either on desk or wall... 
CUT TO - the corner of Groucho's bedroom, showing fireman's pole.  The sound of the clanging bell is heard over scene. 
Groucho hurries into scene, fully clad but for his coat which he has on his arm... without waiting to don his coat he slides down the pole.  We pick him up finishing the slide down the pole into the House of Representatives.  As he arrives the members are on their feet singing the last four bars of the national anthem. 
MEMBERS (Singing) HAIL, HAIL, FREEDONIA Land of the brave and free... 
Groucho hurries toward Speaker's desk, putting on his coat as he goes...  Just as he reaches the desk the singing subsides.  Groucho turns to the body of men and looks off in the direction of one of the representatives. 
GROUCHO (Pointing toward the individual off scene) The Secretary of Agriculture was a little flat... (He takes a match and scratches it across the top of the desk to light his cigar... takes a few puffs, then raps the gavel.) I move we open the morning session... Has anybody got a cork screw? (Looking out and around at members) 
[page missing] 
GROUCHO What's to stop you from digging one... And after you dig a river, how're ya gonna cross it without a bridge...? We've got to have a bridge to stop people from going places -- then we've gotta stop them from coming back.  If you're worried about the expense we can have a bridge with only one end -- and if that's a success we can do away with it altogether. I'm telling you that what this country needs is -- 
Off scene we hear Chico's voice singing "P-E-A-N-U-T-S"... this is followed by the piping of a whistle playing the first strain of the PEANUT VENDOR... 
Groucho listens, annoyed and then continues 
GROUCHO If there's one thing we don't need right now -- it's peanuts -- gentlemen, what good is a bridge if you haven't got ammunition to blow it up... ammunition was never cheaper...  Right now, you can get two cannons for the price of one and shoot twice as far for half the money...  With every five thousand dollar purchase we throw in a Big Bertha... If you don't like her, you can throw her right out again.  I tell you no country can protect itself without -- 
Again Chico's voice comes over scene singing "P-E-A-N-U-T- S"...  The whistling of the first strain of song - the PEANUT VENDOR is heard again 
SPEAKER I'm sorry your Excellency, it is that infernal peanut vendor Chicolini... How can we accomplish anything with that constant annoyance? 
TRENTINO Your Excellency - are we or are we not going to discuss this problem - my time is valuable - I'm a man of few words - 
GROUCHO I'm a man of one word... SCRAM!!! 
Trentino exits resentfully 
GROUCHO (To Bob - aroused) Go out and chase that peanut vendor away from the building -- Get rid of him if you have to use violence - if necessary call out the militia and if he isn't looking get me a bag of peanuts. 
BOB I've tried to chase him but it's no use - he won't go - 
GROUCHO He won't eh? - We'll see about that - send for your father immediately. 
CHICO I don't call him, I whistle. 
GROUCHO What do you whistle? 
CHICO Yankee Poodle. 
GROUCHO I've got just the place for a man like you but I'm too busy right now to do any digging.  What do you call your dog when you want him? 
CHICO I don't want him. 
GROUCHO Well, if you don't want your dog why don't you put him in a pound? 
CHICO He only weighs ten ounces -- 
GROUCHO I can use you in the House of Representatives.  We need a man who understands dogs -- and that's where this country is going to.  Step inside. 
Groucho turns and disappears from the window - CUT INSIDE of House of Representatives 
GROUCHO (To Bob) In case of fire, how long will it take to empty this place? 
BOB (After a moment's thought) About - thirty-four seconds. 
GROUCHO We'll start a fire -- (Indicating representatives) -- and get rid of these microbes. 
Groucho exits towards door leading into his private office. CUT to inside of private office which has another door leading to a hallway, and among other articles of furniture, there is an impressive-looking desk on which is a telephone.  Just as Groucho comes through the door into his office, Chico enters through the other door.  He is wearing gauntlets, reaching half way up his arms.  As they walk toward each other the telephone rings and the two men make a mad  dash for the telephone on the desk.  Chico beats Groucho to the phone, picks up the receiver. 
CHICO (At telephone) Hello!...  Yes...  Yes...  He's not in... 
Chico hangs up receiver and turns to Groucho who is waiting impatiently 
CHICO That was for you. 
GROUCHO I'm sorry I'm not in.  I wanted to have a long talk with you...  Now look here, my good man, you've got to stop yelling "peanuts" in front of the House of Representatives. 
CHICO Oh no, I can't do it. 
GROUCHO You don't want to be a public nuisance, do you? 
CHICO Sure.  How much does the job pay? (or) Sure, if there's a chance for advancement. 
GROUCHO You wouldn't consider going over Niagara Falls without a barrel? 
CHICO 'At's-a no good.  I went to Niagara Falls once. 
GROUCHO Did you shoot the rapids? 
GROUCHO Then we've gotta start one. Do you know how to start a war? 
CHICO Sure, that's easy.  You gotta insult somebody. 
Groucho suddenly slaps Chico across the face with his gloves, then as quickly brings to light a card which he presents to Chico in the professional manner of an experienced duelist 
GROUCHO My card. 
CHICO (Laughing) That's a-no good.  You gotta insult somebody from another country.  Look -- (Puts his large gloves on the desk) I come from one country.  You come from another country.  I say something you don't like.  You say something I don't like - and I'm insulted. 
GROUCHO Why wasn't I insulted? 
CHICO You was insulted, but you don't know it. 
GROUCHO (Indignantly) Then I demand an apology! 
CHICO That's a-no good.  If I apologize we no got a war.  Look -- I send you a scrap of paper.  You send me a scrap of paper -- and we have a scrap. 
GROUCHO You've got a brain after all - and how you get along without it is amazing to me -- Now, who can I insult?...  Who do we owe money to?... (Enthusiastically) AMBASSADOR TRENTINO!  How about him? 
CHICO He's-a very easy to insult --  I say something to his niece once, and he slapped my face. 
GROUCHO Why didn't his niece slap your face? 
CHICO She did. 
GROUCHO What did you say to her? 
Chico whispers in Groucho's ear -- Groucho gives him an indignant look 
GROUCHO You're lucky I don't slap your face -- you oughtta be ashamed of yourself. Where did you hear that story? 
CHICO You told it to me. 
GROUCHO (Puzzled for a moment) Oh, yes, I remember -- and I should have slapped Mrs. Teasdale's face when she told it to me... I'm going right out and find Trentino.  You go right out and get yourself an army. 
Chico turns to go - Groucho stops him 
GROUCHO Wait a minute.  What kind of an army do you think we oughtta have? 
CHICO I think we oughtta have a standing army, so we can save money on chairs. 
At this point Chico is at the door and exits - Groucho slams the door right in his face - then he walks over to the desk and sees the larger gauntlets.  He takes a swing with his own gloves, then takes a hefty swing with the gauntlet.  He leaves his own gloves on the desk and exits with the gauntlets in is hand. 
CUT outside.  Harpo is just pulling up to the curb in front of the House of Representatives, in his motorcycle and side car.  Groucho comes from the building wearing gauntlets, gets into the side car and with a dignified wave of his hand, says: 
TRENTINO (Furious, to Gloria) Can't we go some place where we can be alone? 
GROUCHO (To Mrs. Teasdale) What can this mug offer you?  Wealth and family.  I can't give you wealth... (Archly lifting his eyebrow) ...but we can have a little family of our own. 
MRS. TEASDALE (Coyly) Oh, Rufus! 
GROUCHO All I can offer you is a Rufus over your head. 
MRS. TEASDALE (Happily confused) Oh, Your Excellency, I don't know what to say. 
GROUCHO I wouldn't know what to say either if I was in your place. (Turning to Trentino) Maybe you can suggest something. 
TRENTINO (Hotly) This has gone far enough!  This interruption is humiliating, to say the least... 
GROUCHO Well, why not say the least and get it over with? 
MRS. TEASDALE (Fearful) Gentlemen!  Gentlemen! 
TRENTINO (Half addressing Mrs. Teasdale) I didn't come here to be insulted. 
GROUCHO That's what you think. 
TRENTINO (Furiously) You swine! 
GROUCHO Give me that again! 
TRENTINO You worm! 
GROUCHO Once more! (Holds his gauntlets in his hand, ready at any moment to strike) 
TRENTINO You upstart! 
GROUCHO That's it!  No man lives who can call a Firefly an upstart. 
Without further ado, Groucho strikes Trentino across the face with his gauntlets.  Then he quickly flashes his card and extends it to Trentino in the manner of a duelist. 
GROUCHO (As he offers the card) Touché. 
A sudden ripple of excitement as the guests, attracted by the rumpus begin to move into the scene.  Prominent among these is Vera Trentino.  Trentino refuses Groucho's card, white with rage. 
TRENTINO (Coldly) I shall report this indignity the my President. (To Mrs. Teasdale - polite but firm) Mrs. Teasdale,  I feel this regrettable occurrence will plunge our countries into war. 
MRS. TEASDALE (Half crying) This is terrible! 
VERA Uncle, you can't do this! 
INSERT of newspaper.  The newspaper moves up to CAMERA from background -- as it stops we read the following headlines: 
"ARMIES MOBILIZE AS WAR CLOUDS GATHER!" 
Through this insert we get the vague impression of war activity.  We see the movement of soldiers' feet.  From the background the second insert moves up to CAMERA... 
The first insert moves past CAMERA and the second insert comes from the background.  The headline reads: 
"AMNESIA HASTENS PREPARATIONS!" 
Through this insert we see the heavy wheels of army wagons moving along.  This is replaced by the the insert coming from the background.  The headlines read - 
"FREEDONIA'S LEADER MAINTAINS ATTITUDE OF DIGNIFIED SILENCE!" 
Bombing planes move through this insert.  The front page of the paper is turned and followed by a few other pages until we come to the classified ad section of the paper.  We see the following advertisement: 
WANTED: - A female spy. 
Must be young and attractive Apply to Office of Secretary of War. 
Above this ad we just see a few lines of another ad -- 
WANTED: -- A Chauffeur Below the war nurse ad we see part of another ad in which a cook is wanted. 
DISSOLVE TO 
A SHOT (in movement) of a row of shapely legs, obviously those of very pretty girls.  The CAMERA moves upward disclosing the faces of the girls, who are sitting in a row in the ante-room of the Secretary of War's office.  On the door leading to the Secretary's private office, we see the lettering: PRIVATE.  The CAMERA discloses only four or five of these girls, but we know there are more in the room.  Bob appears in the doorway leading to the Secretary's office and addresses the first girl - nearest the door. 
BOB The Secretary of War will see you next, Miss. 
This girl is very pretty and has a very attractive form. 
She smiles at Bob, rises and exits into the Secretary's office.  Bob closes the door behind her.  The CAMERA now moves along the row of girls and the sixth or seventh girl in the row is Harpo, dressed as a girl.  On the other side of him are more girls.  A girl to the right of him turns to the girl beside her. 
GIRL (To the girl at her right) Did you hear the one about the woman taking a bath?... Well, she forgot to lock the door... A man came in and said, "I'm a doctor"... The woman said, "I'm not sick"... and the man said, "that's all right.  I'm not a doctor." 
All of the girls laugh heartily at at this remark. 
Harpo is laughing also.  He slaps the story-teller on the leg. 
Her laughter ceases instantly.  She slaps him back, and gets another slap on the leg in return.  A little squeal of pain from her and she raises her dress disclosing a bruise on her leg just above the knee. 
GIRL (To Harpo) Look! 
Harpo does so, then pulls up his own dress and points to his leg for her to look.  On his leg is tattooed a picture of two hearts entwined with an arrow running through both.  She gives Harpo dirty look and rises 
In the absence of Mrs. Teasdale, Vera is seated by fireplace while Ambassador Trentino is excitedly pacing up and down... 
TRENTINO This is all Firefly's fault -- that idiot, that fool... 
VERA I thought everything was working out fine. 
TRENTINO Fine nothing!  I didn't want war... My plan was to marry Mrs. Teasdale and overthrow Firefly. 
VERA Maybe you can still win the old dame over -- why not try to -- 
At this point Trentino sees Mrs. Teasdale coming downstairs and hushes Vera with a nudge. 
MRS. TEASDALE (As she descends stairs) I'm so sorry I've kept you waiting... 
Trentino walks over to meet her. 
TRENTINO (Taking her hand) Mrs. Teasdale... (Kisses her hand) I deeply regret the unfortunate affair with his Excellency, but his attitude left me no alternative... 
MRS.  TEASDALE (Emotionally) To think that this should happen after all these years of friendship. 
VERA Maybe the war can still be averted... 
MRS. TEASDALE (Hopefully) Oh, if only it could... 
TRENTINO Mrs. Teasdale, I'm willing to pocket my pride and do anything I can to make up with his Excellency. 
MRS. TEASDALE (Solicitously) Oh, would you...? 
TRENTINO For you, I would do anything... (Bowing graciously) 
VERA If only we can get his Excellency to listen to reason... 
TRENTINO (To Mrs. Teasdale) Perhaps he will listen to you... 
MRS.  TEASDALE Perhaps...  I'll call him... 
She goes the phone... as she starts to dial the number there is a quick CUT to Trentino and Vera who are exchanging significant looks... 
CUT BACK to Mrs. Teasdale at phone... 
MRS. TEASDALE (Talking into phone) Hello, your Excellency?...  I hate to disturb you -- I know you're a very busy man, but I must see you at once. 
CUT TO Groucho at other end of telephone...  He is lying in bed, in his flannel nightgown, eating crackers...  the bed is strewn with cracker boxes and crackers... 
GROUCHO (Into phone) Why not come over here? -- You can come in the back way and no one'll see you... 
GROUCHO That's it... 
Takes gloves from Trentino's breast pocket and socks him across the face... and puts them in his own breast pocket. Trentino becomes apoplectic 
TRENTINO (Spluttering and stuttering) Why - er - Mrs. Teasdale - this is an outrage!  This man is impossible... My course is clear...  this means war... (Turns to go and turns and yells to Groucho) You RUNT! 
GROUCHO I still like UPSTART the best. 
Trentino exits in a rage.  Vera pretends that she is overcome by the scene 
VERA (Putting her hand to her brow) Oh, this is dreadful!  If you'll excuse me I'll go to my room... 
She exits toward stairway 
MRS.  TEASDALE (Excited - almost hysterical) Yes, it's awful! (To Groucho) Are you sure you did the right thing? 
GROUCHO Of course.  Who ever heard of calling off a war after ordering all the ammunition? 
By this tine Vera has descended the stairs and exited from scene.  Groucho looks around the room furtively to make sure he is not being observed and takes a large envelope from his inside pocket. 
GROUCHO The plans of war are in this envelope. I want you to take care of them -- no one will ever suspect you. 
He hands papers to her 
CUT TO Vera lingering on stairs looking down on the scene below.  Having heard the conversation, she exits from scene, and we CUT down stairs to Groucho and Mrs. Teasdale. 
GROUCHO Guard them with your life... don't leave them out of your sight...  If the enemy gets those papers  we're lost.  If they don't get them, we're lost.  Can't you see what I'm trying to tell you?  I love you...   Mrs. Teasdale, you're the salt of the earth.  They don't come any better than you... 
MRS. TEASDALE (Modestly, with a bashful lowering of her eyes) Now -- er -- 
GROUCHO Well -- they might come better but they don't come any bigger... and the bigger the better.  The bigger the betta you've got on a horse, the more you lose, and speaking about horses, why don't you marry me. Come, come -- say yes and you'll never see me again.  I'll go 'way if it means your happiness... 
MRS. TEASDALE Oh, your Excellency, you take me off my feet. 
Groucho puts his arms around her and tries unsuccessfully to lift her off her feet. 
GROUCHO (Angrily) Swell chance I've got taking you off your feet... 
Mrs. Teasdale sinks down into a chair; without hesitation, Groucho slides into her lap and continues his passionate love making. 
GROUCHO Gloria -- may I call you Gloria? 
MRS. TEASDALE Why -- why -- of course. 
GROUCHO You can call me Gloria too.  Gloria -- what a beautiful name.  When I was born my mother named me Gloria -- two minutes later she found out her mistake... 
PREMIER DANSEUSE 
VERA TRENTINO 
DISSOLVE - Through program to stage of opera house - company singing aria from some well-known opera.  CUT TO orchestra box nearest proscenium arch.  Harpo and Chico are there fast asleep leaning on each other.  They are dressed in Inverness capes - wearing their high hats.  Chico has a red band across his shirt-front on which is embossed "Secretary of War" in gold letters.  An usher enters box with two people in the background. 
USHER (To Chico and Harpo) I'm sorry gentlemen - but you have the wrong seats. 
CHICO (Awakening) That's all right.  We're not enjoying ourselves anyway. 
USHER You belong in that box over there - (Pointing to vacant box on opposite side of house - orchestra box) 
CHICO (To Harpo) Come on -- 
They both step out of box, onto stage and stroll casually across as singing is going on.  Part of the way across, Harpo and Chico react to the singing of a very high note -- it's practically in Harpo's ear.  He stops -- makes a terrible face -- takes out ear-muffs, puts them on his ears and he and Chico continue toward the box -- 
CUT TO other box -- the one that Chico and Harpo are headed for.  Mrs. Teasdale and guests are being ushered in... 
Chico and Harpo come into scene, arriving at box.  Chico steps into box from stage.  Harpo is about to follow when he spies a pretty girl in box above.  He starts climbing up the proscenium arch to upper box -- the girl sees him, screams and dashes out of box.  Harpo completes climb into box -- at this point the singing has just finished and applause breaks out. 
Harpo acknowledges the applause as if it was in appreciation of his climb -- after a few quick bows he starts out of the box after the girl.  As he is running out of box into the foyer he bumps into Ambassador Trentino. 
TRENTINO (Stopping him) Wait a minute... Mrs. Teasdale is in the box below.  The plans of war are in her purse -- you've got to get them -- I don't care how, but get them -- and when you do, bring them to 492 North Myrtle Road -- you'd better write that down. 
Harpo takes out a pencil with heavy lead and writes the address on the white and purple-edged silk band which is across Trentino's shirt bosom.  Then he pushes Trentino's coat aside and from under his vest pulls the ribbon in the manner of a ticker tape -- tears it off -- and starts back to box. 
CUT TO 
LOWER BOX 
MRS. TEASDALE I wonder what's keeping His Excellency? 
CHICO Never mind His Excellency -- you gotta your pocketbook? 
MRS. TEASDALE Yes -- why? 
CHICO I wanna powder my nose... 
Mrs. Teasdale laughs good-naturedly and puts the purse behind her between her back and the back of the chair...  as we go to stage where the shooting of the apple in "William Tell" is being enacted.  William Tell is just placing the apple on his son's head -- he turns his back on his son and walks toward opposite side of stage with bow and arrow. 
CUT TO 
UPPER BOX 
Harpo takes a look at apple on the boy's head -- reaches down in box and comes up with a bow and arrow.  He takes a good aim and lets the arrow fly...  It hits its mark and the apple falls to the ground.  William Tell, having arrived at spot from which he's going to shoot, turns to take aim and sees that the apple is gone.  He picks up another, at the base of an apple tree and starts in direction of his son. 
HERO (Continuing singing) Fetch my boots -- (Harpo throws boots on stage Hero continues) Bring me my sword -- (Harpo throws a sword on stage --) 
Hero continues his song while Harpo litters the stage with various articles - a saddle - a chair, etc... 
CUT TO box below - Chico is trying to reach for pocketbook on ledge but can't get it.  He whistles up to Harpo.  Harpo looks down and Chico pantomimes to him to get the pocketbook, pointing to it.  The singing stops and aplause follows -- the orchestra starts a selection -- which continues through following routine without any singing. 
CUT TO box above.  Harpo takes out a fishing pole with a reel on it -- he unwinds reel and the line descends 
near box below and lands in a man's hair -- the man occupies an aisle seat in the orchestra -- near Teasdale box. 
CUT TO Harpo reeling in.  CUT TO man on aisle seat -- The hook has caught onto his toupe and its being pulled off his head.  CUT TO Harpo reeling in with great satisfaction in the belief that he has the purse -- on the end of the line comes the toupe.  Harpo, astonished, looks down on the victim who, minus the toupe, now displays a shiny bald pate. 
Harpo takes out his fountain pen and releases gadget. The ink pours down on the bald spot of the man below and spreads into the form of a toupe parted in the middle.  CUT BACK to Harpo - he places the toupe on the bare back side of a figure of Cupid carved on the arch.  He is now suddenly attracted by something on the stage -- it is a pool with a practical fountain in its center.  Harpo digs into a decorative flower box set in a groove in the proscenium arch. 
He brings out a real live worm and baits his hook -- stands up and casts... the line swishes through the air and the hook lands in the pool on the stage.  The line instantly tightens and a large carp fish is yanked out of the pool... as the line is drawn in the fish nearly hits Mrs. Teasdale. 
She covers her face with her hands.  Chico takes advantage of her action, grabs the line, removes the fish, and puts hook on handle of purse...  then signals Harpo with a whistle and in the manner of a construction foreman, motions to him to start "hoisting".  The line becomes taut and the purse is yanked out of view.  Mrs. Teasdale uncovers her face and discovers that the purse is missing. 
MRS.  TEASDALE (Hysterically) My purse -- my purse is gone! 
There is a buzz of excitement among the rest of the guests as they help Mrs. Teasdale look for the purse. 
Chico joins in the search.  He grabs an elderly dignified man in the party, throws back his coat and starts to frisk him. 
CHICO He no got it --- 
As he turns to frisk another man, Mrs. Teasdale says 
MRS. TEASDALE This is dreadful -- I must see His Excellency at once --- (She exits from box) 
CUT TO ballet dancers' dressing room, where we find Groucho still pumping away on Vera Trentino's leg --- 
VERA Are you sure you're not tired? 
GROUCHO Tired!  I'd like to stretch this into a week - 
Mrs. Teasdale enters the scene.  The sight shocks her but she recovers herself sufficiently to hide the embarrassment. 
MRS. TEASDALE I hope I'm not interrupting. 
GROUCHO (Still pumping - looks over his shoulder at Mrs. Teasdale) Take a seat -- you're next. (He lets go of Vera's leg - and she exits) 
MRS. TEASDALE Your Excellency, something terrible has just happened. 
GROUCHO That's all right.  I'll fix you right up. 
CHICO (Exasperated) Hey, you never get the safe open that way. (Looking up at Vera's room) We gotta try the combination...  You gotta the combination? 
Harpo nods and takes from under his coat a woman's silk combination... winks and looks back in the direction of Vera's room...  Chico snatches it out of his hand and throws it away. 
During above Mrs. Teasdale has come out on balcony, sees the boys but can't distinguish them in the room which is practically in darkness except for a few splotches of moonlight.  She runs back into her room... 
CUT TO Mrs. Teasdale's room...  she is at telephone dialing a number... 
MRS. TEASDALE (After a slight nervous pause) Hello?  Your Excellency?  There are burglars in the house...  I want you to come right over. 
CUT TO Groucho's bedroom.  He is at the other end of the phone in bed. 
GROUCHO (Into phone) You come over here.  There are no burglars in my house. 
CUT BACK to Mrs. Teasdale at phone. 
MRS. TEASDALE (Into phone) But Your Excellency, you must -- I tell you there are burglars here... Oh, thank you...  Please hurry... 
CUT TO Chico and Harpo in living room below at safe. 
Harpo has just finished putting a stick of dynamite in the door of safe... 
CHICO Light it... Now we blow him up... 
Harpo strikes a match, but Chico stops him from lighting it. 
CHICO Wait a minute... we gotta fix it so it don't make-a so much noise... What-a we do? 
Harpo takes out a large wad of cotton, tears it, hands two pieces to Chico... they both stuff their ears with large pieces. 
CHICO That's fine... Now, nobody hear the noise. 
Harpo lights fuse... each stands on either side of safe door waiting for the explosion... after a slight pause, there is a terrific blast of sound... and the screen is masked with smoke.  The smoke clears away and the safe door falls to the floor.  Groucho walks out of the safe putting the plans of war in his inside pocket... 
After a few steps he stops and addresses the boys... 
GROUCHO That woman is crazy... there are no burglars around here... 
FADE OUT 
END OF SEQUENCE "G" 
SEQUENCE  "H" 
FADE IN - to insert of newspaper which comes from background to CAMERA.  A screaming headline reads: 
END OF SEQUENCE "H" 
SEQUENCE "J" 
DISSOLVE through the shooting of previous scene to STOCK SHOT of artillery fire on battle field - a profile SHOT with all the activity of an actual battle, but without an indication of falling men.  DISSOLVE from this to interior of Groucho's headquarters behind the front - a wooden shack. The sound of a distant booming of guns is heard over this scene.  On the wall is a large war map with colored thumb tacks indicating the positions of Groucho's men and the enemy. 
Groucho, in the uniform of a Confederate General, (a Robert E. Lee make-up), is studying the war map with a few of his Generals. 
GROUCHO (Looking at a tack in a distant sector) Either there's a fly in the room or we've got a soldier in Africa. 
The door flies open and Bob, in a snappy uniform, enters excitedly and breathlessly.  He faces Groucho with a quick salute and a click of the heels. 
BOB (Taking a dispatch from under his belt) A dispatch from the front, sir. 
Groucho snatches the dispatch from Bob's hand, tears it open -- reads it quickly -- claps his hand to his brow and staggers. The generals crowd about him. 
A GENERAL (Solicitously) Bad news, sir? 
GROUCHO Bad news -- its disastrous! 
A FEW GENERALS (Simultaneously) What is it? 
GROUCHO (Reading from dispatch) Private Moscowitz quits! (Groucho rushes to radio operator) 
GROUCHO Clear all wires... (The operator works key) 
GROUCHO The enemy has taken Hill 25, throwing twelve Hill-billies out of work... Our front is exposed to the enemy -- we'll have to bring up the rear... (Turning away, then turning back to Generals and continuing) P.S.  Have misplaced flag of truce... look in upper lefthand drawer of my bureau... 
The whining of an approaching shell is heard and a shell about three feet long comes sailing through the open window, speeds through the room and tears through the opposite wall, leaving a clean-cut hole.  Groucho rushes to window and closes it. 
CUT TO: 
SHOT of No Man's Land, with shells exploding in all directions.  We see a head slowly appearing over the edge of shell-hole, looking through spy-glasses.  It is Harpo... 
CUT TO: 
Inside of shell hole... 
Harpo registers that he has seen something of startling interest.  He drops the glasses, scrambles out of shell-hole and runs out of scene.  He rushes to his waiting motorcycle (without the side-car). 
The staff with the flag flying from it is attached to the handle-bars.  He leaps onto the motorcycle seat and starts off. 
CUT TO: 
A war nurse, attracted by the roar of the motorcycle. 
CHICO Oh, sure.  We have horse maneuvers every morning. 
At this point, an unusually large shell comes crashing from above, imbedding itself, point down, in the floor without exploding.  Groucho and Chico rush over to look at it. 
GROUCHO (Looking at shell) Acme Ammunition Company, eh?  How do you expect to win the war with shells that don't go off?  Now, if you were buying your stuff from me, you wouldn't have that trouble.  Eureka Ammunition is guaranteed to explode -- or your money back.  Let me show you some samples. 
Groucho opens door and yells to some one outside 
GROUCHO Bring in No. 47, line 8. 
Harpo enters, bent forward, tugging at a rope which tightens over his shoulder, in the manner of a Volga Boatman... at the end of the rope is a cannon, on two wheels 
GROUCHO (Pointing to gun) That's our latest number...  our sixteen-inch Horowitz gun. (To Harpo) Load it up. 
Harpo pours a great quantity of powder into the cannon, then to make sure he has enough, he lights a match and looks into the hole.  Groucho takes the lighted match from Harpo.  He lights his own cigar, hands the match back to Harpo.  Harpo pours in a little more powder, makes sure he has enough, then proceeds to ram the powder in the barrel with his horn. He rises and moves to wall toward which the cannon is pointed. He draws a target on the wall with a piece of chalk -- goes back to cannon.  He picks up the firing string, and faces the target toward which the cannon is pointing.  Chico puts his fingers into his ears.  Groucho picks up a pencil from desk - taps it on desk - then raises both hands, in the manner of an orchestra leader.  He holds this pose for a second - and on the down beat, Harpo jerks the string and there is a terrific explosion.  The cannon fires out the back end instead of the front and blows a hole through the back wall.  The two stare off in the direction of the hole.  Groucho turns to Chico. 
GROUCHO With a gun like that you can kill some of your own men. 
CHICO That's-a pretty good.  I'll take a dozen of them. 
GROUCHO Anything else? (Writing order on pad) 
CHICO (Mentally figuring) Yes, one gross of bullets, two dozen hand-grenades, three kegs of powder -- and throw in some matches. 
GROUCHO (Writing) Fine.  We'll throw in the matches before we make the delivery.  By the way, how're you fixed for spys? 
CHICO Fine.  We gotta him. (He indicates Harpo) 
GROUCHO So! -- He's on your side, too. 
CHICO Sure. 
GROUCHO Well, with you two fellows on the other side, this country should have no trouble keeping the wolf from the door. 
Harpo opens the door and discloses a dozen or more snarling wolves at the door. 
CUT TO - INTERIOR enemy headquarters.   The booming of distant guns comes over the scene.  Trentino is there with a Sylvanian general. 
GENERAL Something must be done immediately. The soldiers are getting discouraged. 
TRENTINO There's only one thing to do... we must capture Firefly. 
GENERAL But how?  It's a very dangerous undertaking. 
TRENTINO (Standing near widow) Ask for volunteers.  Some one must make the sacrifice -- someone -- (Stops to gaze out of window attracted by off scene roar of motor) Here comes Chicolini.  Maybe he'll do it. (Walks away from window) Unless we can make Firefly our prisoner, we're lost. 
Chico and Harpo are standing at the open door looking down. 
CHICO Look!  That's-a Firefly's headquarters. (Pointing down) We catch him right now. 
Harpo reaches back into the cabin, picks up an enormous hook and throws it out.  The rope that is attached to the hook starts playing out rapidly. 
CUT TO -- 
LONG SHOT miniature of dirigible and rope dangling from it... 
Then CUT TO - SHOT of rope and hook as it approaches Groucho's headquarters.  It hooks onto the roof of the shack and raises it off the ground.  CUT TO - 
LONG SHOT - miniature of dirigible carrying the shack through the air. 
CUT TO - inside of headquarters. 
GROUCHO (To generals) Gentlemen, the overhead is killing us.  Everything is going up.  If we don't watch ourselves, we'll come down with a crash.  Now -- all those in favor of taking a cut say "aye"... 
ONE GENERAL (Protesting) But Your Excellency! 
GROUCHO Carried unanimously. 
CUT TO - SHOT of dirigible carrying the shack. 
The shack just clears a steeple by a few inches. 
CUT TO - INSIDE of headquarters. 
GROUCHO Now go right out there and fight. (To one general) You go out there and relieve General Beauregard, and while you're at it, see what General Motors is doing. 
The general, without saluting, exits out of door and closes door behind him. 
GROUCHO (To another general) Call him back -- he didn't salute me. 
The second general exits out of door without saluting, closing door behind him. 
ZEPPO Father, he didn't salute you either. 
GROUCHO (Angrily) Attention! 
The remaining generals jump to their feet, stand at attention and salute. 
GROUCHO Go out there -- all of you -- and bring those generals back -- dead or alive. 
All of the generals exit through to door; the last one closing door behind him. 
