"E.T." 
Commentary by Richard Michaels 
TITLES: "E.T. - THE EXTRA-TERRESTIAL" 
[The letters are in soft-purple against a black background. Purple is traditionally the color of that which is sacred.] 
EXT: NIGHT SKY: NIGHT 
The black screen becomes a night sky. The camera angles lowers to show a forest against the night sky. 
EXT: LANDING SITE: NIGHT 
In an opening in the forest stands a spacecraft. The view of the craft is obscured by tree branches. The atmosphere is misty, with blue lights coming from the spacecraft. 
[The opening scene is misty and diffused. This forces the audience to pay close attention to the images on the screen. The characters are not clearly seen. This engages the audience, as they attempt to see what the aliens really look like.] 
One creature walks up the gang blank and into the ship. 
INSERT: ALIEN HAND 
A strange hand, with two long and slender fingers protruding, move aside a branch that obstructs the view. 
[This concentrates the audience's attention. The creature going into the ship is being observed by another creature. Who are they? What's going on? This is another technique that forces the audience to focus on the action.] 
INT: SPACECRAFT'S GREENHOUSE: NIGHT 
The inside of the ship appears to be a greenhouse. There are sounds of water dripping. Cone shaped objects (possibly alien plants) sit among earth plants. Vapors flow up from the plants. 
[These images all appear non-threatening. The aliens are inferred to be collecting vegetation, and are thereby inferred to be harmless.] 
[Like many of Spielberg's other films, the opening sequences contain almost no dialogue. The story is told without verbal exposition. He forces the audience to become engaged in the storytelling process by giving them just bits of information that they have to piece together into the story. He doesn't insult their intelligence.] 
When E.T hears the sound, his red heart lights up. The homing signal reverberates in his chest. 
[This establishes that his heart is used as a communication device, i.e., these aliens communicate with their hearts.] 
"Keys" hears this sound and quickly turns around. He points his flashlight towards the sounds. The other men join him as they walk towards the sound. E.T. screams and runs away, which is indicated by the shaking bushes. The men with flashlights chase after him. 
[So, like Dorothy in the WIZARD OF OZ, the opening scene has the protagonist being pursued by an unknown antagonist.] 
EXT: SPACECRAFT: NIGHT 
The lights dim on the footings of the spacecraft, presumably because the spacecraft is preparing to takeoff. 
[The protagonist has the added jeopardy of being abandoned.] 
EXT: FOREST: NIGHT 
E.T. screams as he races for the spacecraft. The glow from his red-heart reflects off the bushes as he runs towards the white light of the spacecraft. 
[The audience still hasn't seen the face of the protagonist.] 
EXT: SPACECRAFT: NIGHT 
A lone alien stands before a large round white light, as he signals for the other aliens to return to the ship. 
EXT: FOREST: NIGHT 
Men with flashlights run through the forest, as they pursue the red glowing light racing towards the spacecraft. One of the pursuers is the man wearing the keys on his waist. 
EXT: SPACECRAFT: NIGHT 
The grated gangplank lifts up, blocking the entrance to the ship. Behind the grate stands the alien against the large round white light. The red light of the aliens heart lights up as he stands behind the barrier. 
[This image exhibits an obstacle to E.T. returning to his ship.] 
One of the boys tells Elliott that he can't join when they are in the middle of the game. 
[Audience empathy is generated for the young child who is being excluded from the game.] 
Elliott walks up to the table and yells at his brother, Mike. Michael says that Elliott has to ask Steve, who is the Game Master, and who has absolute power. 
[The notion of "absolute power" is set up here, for a "payoff" later when Elliott uses it to keep Michael silent about E.T.] 
[Elliott's objective here is to play the game, but also to be accepted by the group and gain the respect of the older boys.] 
Steve tells Elliott that first he has to wait for the pizza, then when he brings it back he can play. Steve gives him money for the pizza. Elliott picks up his baseball and glove, then leaves the room. 
[The ball and glove are props that will be used in the story.] 
[Elliott's sub-objective is to get the pizza. Once this is accomplished, he'll be able to play the game.] 
EXT: ELLIOTT'S HOUSE: NIGHT 
It's a rainy, misty night. Elliott, with ball and glove in hand wait at the bottom of the driveway for the pizza. A car pulls up and parks in the driveway. Elliott pays the driver, then takes the pizza box from him as the car pulls out of the driveway. 
Elliott walks up the driveway and into the garage. He hears a noise in the backyard, then calls out the name "HARVEY," presumably his dogs name. 
INT: ELLIOTT'S HOUSE: NIGHT 
Elliott's mother wears an orange outfit as she works in the kitchen. She bends over to put dishes into the dishwasher. When she does this one of the young boys reaches out to put his finger on her rear. Mike yells for him to stop. He pulls his finger away. 
INT: PATIO: NIGHT 
Elliot walks past the ping pong table when he hears more noises in the backyard. Again he calls out the name "Harvey." 
[This generates tension and suspense in the audience.] 
With the pizza box in hand, Elliot walks past the patio table and towards the shed in the backyard. A bright crescent moon hangs in the night sky. 
The clock on the end table indicates 2:00. Next to the clock is a picture of a dog, presumably Harvey. This same dog lies asleep in the bed. He hears a noise and picks up his head. He is in the lower half of a bunk bed. On the top bunk sits Elliott. He is awake as he listens to the noise outside. 
[Elliott's objective is to prove there's a creature in the shed.] 
EXT: BACKYARD: NIGHT 
Elliott opens a gate and walks into the backyard. He carries a flashlight in his hand and shines it into the cornfield next to his house. He walks into the field. 
EXT: CORNFIELD: NIGHT 
Elliott walks into the cornfield. He whistles, and gets entangled in the cornstalks as he walks. He sees tracks in the dirt with his baseball nearby. He continues to walk through the field. 
[The stalks are obstacles that obstruct both his path and his vision. It also clutters the visuals and forces the audience to pay closer attention. The suspense increases because they aren't sure whether he'll meet up with the alien or the coyote.] 
Elliott pushes aside some stalks and shines the light into the face of E.T. Together, in unison, the scream. Elliot drops his light, then continues to scream as he looks around the field. E.T. cries out and runs away through the cornfield. 
[Their reactions upon seeing each other were identical. This is the first instance of a series of situations which will "merge" their characters to such an extent that whatever empathy the audience has for one they will also have for the other.] 
EXT: BACKYARD: NIGHT 
Elliott runs into his backyard. His play swings sway back and forth in the air, as if someone had just bumped into them. Two garbage pails fall over near an open metal gate at the top of a stone stairway. The garbage rolls out of the cans and down the stone stairs. A red light by the gate lights the stone stairway. 
[The audience psychologically associates this red light with E.T.'s red lighted heart, and makes the inference that he had run up the staircase and out the gate.] 
Elliott has an expression of wonderment and gratification on his face as he looks up the staircase, for he has just established the existence of the creature in the shed.] 
EXT: GARAGE: DAY 
Elliott rides down the driveway on his bicycle. He next rides down a dirt road that overlooks the suburban community. 
[Elliott's new objective is to locate the creature.] 
EXT: FOREST ROAD: DAY 
The alien approaches Elliott. The bright light from the shed makes it impossible to see his face: only the outline of his form is visible. The alien walks right up to the edge of the lawn chair. 
[The scene is filled with suspense because Elliott may be in jeopardy from the creature.] 
The alien slowly moves its hand over the chair, then drops candies onto the blanket. Elliott relaxes. 
[This non-verbal gesture by E.T. demonstrates that he is harmless. The tension in the scene is thereby released. Elliott has achieved his objective: he established contact with the alien.] 
INT: ELLIOTT'S HOUSE: NIGHT 
Elliott places candy on the carpet, then walks backwards down the hallway towards his room. E.T. walks up the stairs and reaches out for the candy, which he then takes into his hand and eats. 
[Elliott's new objective is to get the alien into his room. His main obstacles are to somehow persuade the alien to come into the house, while not waking his family.] 
[This scene also is a good example of how to structure a scene's beginning. In real life, the scene would have started in the backyard, tracked through the kitchen, the living room and then up the stairs. But since all of that information would have been redundant, picking the action up from the top of the stairs was sufficient.] 
INT: ELLIOTT'S ROOM: NIGHT 
Elliott places candy on the floor by the entrance to his room. A sign on his door contains the word "ENTER." E.T picks up the candy. 
Elliott has run out of candy. He goes to his desk in search for more. He opens some drawers, but doesn't find any. When he returns to the doorway, E.T. has already entered the room. E.T. pulls a box down from the table, then knocks a can filled with pens onto the floor. This makes a loud noise, and forces Elliott to quickly close the door to his room. 
[The audience still does not have a clear view of E.T.'s face nor body. This holds their attention during the scene. They are waiting for that wonderful moment.] 
Elliott throws a blanket over E.T. as they stare at each other. E.T. is finally revealed to the audience. 
Elliott moves his hand in front of his face, a gesture indicating bewilderment. E.T. mimics this action. 
[This is the beginning of their efforts to communicate, but also the start of the audience emotionally identifying the two characters as one object of empathy.] 
Elliott places his fingers to his lips to see if E.T. will respond in the same manner, which he does. Elliott then places one finger to his ear, which E.T. also mimics. Elliott smiles, then holds his left hand up with all five fingers spread apart. E.T. raises his left hand with three fingers spread apart. Elliott closes his fingers until there is only one remaining up. E.T. does the same. They both wiggle this one finger. A poster on the wall between Elliott and E.T. has the word "SUPERSTAR" printed on it. 
[These actions help the audience to conceive of these two characters as "mirror images" of one another, worthy of equal empathy. It also bonds the young children in the audience to them, because the characters are speaking in a language they too can understand. All the children in the audience have just been through the experience of learning a language. They can easily identify with the problems that that two characters in the story are having in communicating with each other. This forges a bond between the children and both Elliott and E.T. This also forms the basis for the repeat viewing of this film which was essential for its phenomenal box-office success.] 
[Humor is generated because the audience knows that he is fooling his mother.] 
INTERCUT: DRIVEWAY 
Mike continues to back the car down the driveway. He overshoots the edge and goes out into the street. He then pulls forward across the sidewalk. 
INTERCUT: ELLIOTT'S ROOM 
"You were outside waiting for that thing?" says Mary. Elliott nods. 
[Elliott is covered in blue-white colors, which traditionally signify innocence, and which generates audience empathy for him.] 
She tells him not to watch TV, kisses him, then leaves the room. Elliott quickly closes the blinds. 
EXT: DRIVEWAY: DAY 
Mary runs down the driveway towards the car. Gertie points out the patches of lawn that Mike pulled onto the driveway as he was driving the car. Mary pulls her into the car. 
INT: ELLIOTT'S ROOM: DAY 
Elliott gestures for E.T. to walk out of the closet, which he does. He is wearing Elliott's robe. Elliott asks him if he talks. 
[Elliott's objective is to communicate with E.T., his obstacle is that E.T. does not speak the English language.] 
"Me Human. Boy. Elliott, Elliott, Elliott" says Elliott. 
E.T. turns away and walks towards the work table. Elliott picks up objects, such as a can of coke and toy soldiers, from the table then names them for E.T. Elliott points to the fish and explains how the fish eat the fish food. He places a wooden toy shark into the fishbowl, then states that the shark eats the fish but nobody eats the shark. 
[In his effort to communicate with E.T., Elliott tries to teach him the language by showing him objects that are used in everyday life. This process is similar to that experienced by the children and parents in the audience everyday as they also learn and attempt to communicate with each other. This type of scene solidifies the audience's emotional bonding with Elliott and E.T.] 
E.T. takes a toy car into his mouth on chews on it. 
[Like many a child would.] 
INTERCUT: ELLIOTT'S ROOM 
E.T. accidentally opens up the umbrella. 
INTERCUT: KITCHEN 
Elliott screams with fright and drops the milk carton onto the floor. 
INTERCUT: ELLIOTT'S ROOM 
E.T. screams with fright, drops the umbrella, then runs into the closet. 
[This further establishes the merging of E.T. and Elliott into one being. Elliott shares E.T.'s feelings and simultaneously experiences what he experiences. The audience also experiences this surprise with them, which further tightens the bonds.] 
Milk flows from the open carton onto the floor, as Elliott leans into the open refrigerator. He clutches his chest and looks up towards the ceiling as he ponders his experience. 
INT: ELLIOTT'S ROOM: DAY 
Elliott carries a plate of food into the room. He walks past the open umbrella and looks into the closet. Stuffed animals line the back of the closet wall. E.T. pushes the animals forward. He was hiding behind them. He is still shaking from the fright experience. "Are you okay? Too much excitement, huh? You want a coke?" 
[This is the resolution of the last scene sequence. We see both characters' reactions to the events that have occurred.] 
EXT: DRIVEWAY: DAY 
Michael runs up the driveway towards his house. He's wearing a red football blazer. 
INT: ELLIOTT'S HOUSE: DAY 
Michael opens the front door and runs into the house. He takes off his red shirt to reveal the blue shirt he's wearing underneath. He picks up a magazine then opens the refrigerator. "Nothing but health shit," he says, as he takes out a can and shakes it. 
[The audience tenses up because jeopardy has just been introduced into the story. They wonder what will happen when Mike discovers E.T. in Elliott's bedroom.] 
INT: ELLIOTT'S ROOM: DAY 
EXT: COMMUNITY: DAY 
On the hilltop overlooking the neighborhood stands a man with a camera as he takes photos of the houses below. The man with keys on his waist walks into the area, as other men comb the ground with electronic equipment. 
[Jeopardy is introduced in the scene in order to maintain tension in the audience. The antagonist is getting closer to the home of the protagonist.] 
EXT: ELLIOTT`S HOUSE: NIGHT 
[This is an establishing shot.] 
INT: ELLIOTT`S HOUSE: NIGHT 
Mary, carrying a yellow watering pail, walks across the room and waters a large plant. Gertie pulls a little red wagon into the hallway. When asked by Mary what she's doing, Gertie replies that she's going to play in Elliott's room. "Okay, don't let them torture you," says the mother. "I won't, Mary," replies Gertie. 
[This generates humor because the child deals with the mother as if they are equals.] 
Gertie picks up a pot containing a sickly geranium plant and places it into the wagon. The phone rings and Mary answers it off screen. 
[The plant becomes an important prop because in the story it will represent the health and well-being of E.T.] 
INT: ELLIOTT'S ROOM: NIGHT 
Gertie knocks on the door. Mike lets her and Harvey into the room. They walk to the table where E.T. and Elliott are sitting. Gertie puts the sickly plant n the table. E.T. puts his finger into the plant. Elliott opens up an encyclopedia and points to California on a map of the United States. "We are here," Elliott says as E.T. munches on celery. Michael hands Elliott a globe and tells him to use this instead of the map. Elliott points to the globe, then asks E.T. where he's from. E.T. points out the window. 
[Elliott's objective is to discover more about the alien.] 
Elliott opens the book to a page that has the map of a galaxy. He points to the planet earth, touches the globe, then says "HOME, HOME." E.T. makes a soft noise that sounds similar to the word "home." Gertie watches him as he picks up round objects and places them on the map: three small pieces of fruit and two eggs. E.T.'s eyes concentrate on the table, which then starts to shake. The two eggs and three small pieces of fruit then lift off the table and float in the air. The children watch with awe. 
[This introduction of "magical" powers that E.T. possesses was unexpected and thereby helps to make the story unpredictable.] 
Elliott screams with fright and the floating objects drop to the floor. He walks to a lamp and stares into it. Mike asks what is wrong. "I don't know. Something scary," says Elliott as E.T. places his finger on Elliott's shoulder. 
[Jeopardy is introduced into the scene with this comment. Yet it is not E.T. who is to be feared, as indicated by his comforting gesture of placing his finger on Elliott's shoulder.] 
INT: ELLIOTT'S BEDROOM: DAY 
Mary walks into the closet and looks around. The camera pans across the large faces of all the stuffed dolls: Raggedy Ann, a Bear, a Monkey, E.T.'s Face, a Lion, etc. Mary doesn't notice E.T., then closes the closet door and leaves. 
[Humor is generated because of the incongruity of a living creature among the dolls, and the inability of Mary to distinguish between them. The laughter releases the tension that was created in the previous scene. This also reinforces the audience's emotional ties to E.T., since he is so "doll-like."] 
INT: SCHOOL: DAY 
A teacher walks down the aisle and announces to the class that today they will perform the frog dissection for which they have been preparing. As he passes Elliott's desk, he starts to say "frogs similar to," then he notices the drawing of E.T. The teacher picks it up. Elliott turns to see the pretty blonde girl staring at him. Realizing she's been caught, she quickly turns and looks away. 
[This attraction to Elliott is set up in order to payoff before the end of the school sequence.] 
INT: ELLIOTT'S ROOM: DAY 
E.T. opens the door to Elliott's room and walks out into the hallway. Harvey sees and quickly approaches. 
[Jeopardy: will the dog attack E.T.? At there last encounter E.T. was frightened by Harvey.] 
INTERCUT: CLASSROOM 
The teacher continues his instructions, telling the students that the scalpel is very sharp, and that they should use discretion when cutting. There should be very little blood, and maybe a little body fluids. 
[This exposition of the plans sets up the audience's expectations, which later will not be fulfilled. This is a standard structure used to generated excitement and unpredictability in a story.] 
INT: KITCHEN: DAY 
E.T., wearing a blue-flannel shirt, walks into the kitchen with Harvey at his side. He opens the refrigerator. Harvey licks his lips as he watches in anticipation of getting something to eat. E.T. takes out a plastic container of potato salad, opens it, then sticks his tongue into the salad. He hates the taste and throws it onto the floor. Harvey licks it up. E.T. then picks up a can of beer and drinks it as Harvey barks. 
INTERCUT: SCHOOL 
Elliott sits at his desk as he listens to the teacher speak. Elliott burps. All the children in the classroom stare at him. 
[This again shows the merging of Elliott and E.T.] 
E.T. gulps down another can of beer. 
INTERCUT: SCHOOL 
Elliott, drunk, sits at his desk. He turns and smiles at the pretty blonde girl across the aisle. She turns away from him with disgust. 
INTERCUT: LIVING ROOM 
E.T. plays on the keys of a voice generating language game. He next presses a button on a remote control which activates the TV set. A cartoon appears with a cat getting its tail caught on fire. The cat screams and E.T reacts with horror. He throws the beer can at the TV set. 
[Laughter is generated, for while this under normal circumstances would be inappropriate behavior, he makes sense given E.T.'s point of view.] 
He then presses another button on the remote, and the image of a flying plane appears on the screen. A spaceship next appears, and pulls the plane up towards it. 
INTERCUT: SCHOOL 
The teacher carries a jar of cotton balls soaked in chloroform, which he drops into the jars containing frogs. He tells the children to immediately put the lids on the jars. After telling the children that this won't hurt the frogs, he places a cotton ball into the last two jars, one of which belongs to Elliott. Elliott doesn't place the cover on his jar, but instead sadly watches as the frog tries to escape. Slowly he places to lid on it, as he gazes at the frog. 
"Say hi. Can you talk? Can you talk? Can you say hi?" says Elliott. 
[Elliott is making an emotional identification of the frog with E.T. by attempting the same process of communication. The situation also creates expectations in the audience that similar things will happen to E.T. once he is captured.] 
CLOSEUP: FROG'S FACE 
CLOSEUP: E.T.'S FACE 
[A cinematic technique which reinforces the identification of the frog with E.T. This sets up the audience for E.T.'s operation. They expect the frog to die, and they project these expectations to E.T. later in the story.] 
INTERCUT: LIVING ROOM 
E.T. has a hangover as he hiccups and puts his hand on his head. He then picks up the cartoon section of a newspaper. One cartoon strip has a picture of a communication device with a caption stating "HELP, HELP." 
On the TV monitor a woman is talking long distance n her telephone to her Uncle Ralph in California. E.T. hears the sounds coming from the TV, then turns to look at the monitor, where he sees a man talking into a phone in his hand. The camera pans to a phone near E.T. A child in the TV program picks up the phone, says hello to his uncle, then hangs up. 
INTERCUT: LIVINGROOM 
John Wayne pulls the woman back. 
INTERCUT: SCHOOL 
Elliott pulls the blonde girl back. 
INTERCUT: LIVINGROOM 
John Wayne takes the woman into his arms. 
INTERCUT: SCHOOL 
Elliott takes the blonde girl into his arms. 
INTERCUT: LIVINGROOM 
John Wayne kisses the woman. 
INTERCUT: SCHOOL 
Elliott, too short to kiss her, stands on the back of a student who was crawling on the floor after a frog. Elliott kisses the girl. 
INTERCUT: LIVINGROOM 
E.T., filled with fascination, watches the TV monitor. 
INTERCUT: SCHOOL 
The children's hands poke through the windows and free the frogs by throwing them out onto the grass. 
[Elliott was able to accomplish his objective of freeing the frogs. This sequence was structured to run in parallel in order to emphasize the merging of Elliott and E.T.] 
Elliott is walking towards his room when he hears Gertie talking to E.T. in her room. He drops his bags on the floor, and quickly enters her room. 
"Be good, be good," says Gertie as she closes the doors to her closet. Elliott pushes Gertie away from the closet and opens it. Inside is E.T. dressed up in girl clothes with a blonde wig on his head. He has a rabbit fur around his neck and wears a black hat with flowers. 
[This is completely inappropriate attire for an alien, whether male or female. The visual incongruity of E.T. in girl's clothes generates the laughter.] 
"Oh God!" says Elliott. "Elliott," says E.T. "What?" says Elliott, not yet realizing that it was E.T. who spoke. "Elliott, Elliott," repeats E.T. "I taught him how to talk. He can talk now," says Gertie. 
[Elliott, with the help of Gertie and the TV program, has completed one of Elliott's objectives: communicating with E.T.] 
Gertie points out the things that E.T. has brought upstairs: electrical toys and the plant. She wonders what he needs this for. E.T. holds the cartoon page of the newspaper out to Elliott. "E.T., can you say that? Can you say E.T.?" asks Elliott. "E.T.," repeats E.T. Elliott laughs with joy. E.T keeps repeating his name as he turns and walks through the closet into Elliott's room. 
"E.T., be good," says E.T. "Be good," I taught him that too," says Gertie. 
["Be good" is a fundamental value taught children, as basic as the principle "There's no place like home," taught in the WIZARD OF OZ.] 
"You should give him his dignity. This is the most ridiculous thing I've ever seen," says Elliott. 
E.T. hands Elliott the newspaper, and points to the Buck Rodgers comic strip. He then says "PHONE". Elliott is amazed at this. E.T. walks into the closet and says "HOME." Elliott confirms that this is E.T.'s home. E.T. then turns, walks to the window, points to the sky, and says "E.T. HOME PHONE." 
"E.T. PHONE HOME" says Gertie. "E.T. PHONE HOME" says Elliott. 
"He wants to call somebody," says Gertie. 
[This reconfirms E.T.'s objective.] 
Mike walks into the room and laughs at E.T.'s attire. 
"E.T. Phone Home," says E.T. 
"Oh my God, he's talking now," says Mike. 
E.T. once again points out the window and repeats that he wants to call home. "And they'll come?, says Elliott. "Come?" responds E.T. "Home, home" he repeats. 
The man in the van continues to listen to Elliott and Michael's conversation. Only the listener's eye is clearly visible. 
[This is a cinematic technique to signify the "ever-watching eye" of the faceless antagonist.] 
INT: GERTIE'S ROOM: NIGHT 
Mary lies in bed next to Gertie as she reads her the Peter Pan story. Mary reads that Peter has defeated the Indians, but Wendy and the boys have been captured by the pirates. He vows to rescue her. E.T. watches them from the closet. 
[Here the notion of "a rescue" is introduced, and visually associated with E.T. as he watches them from the closet. This is an emotional set up for the audience, so that they will later be supportive of Elliott and the boy's efforts to rescue E.T.] 
Mary reads the section of the Peter Pan story where Tinker Bell becomes poisoned. Elliott comes into the closet, stands next to E.T., then closes the door behind them. 
"Tinkerbell swallows the draft as Peter's hand reaches for it," reads Mary. "Why T, you have drunk my medicine." 
Elliott pulls E.T. away from the door, then shifts through a box of items that he brought up from the garage. He cuts his finger on the blade of a power saw, then says "OUCH," as he holds his bleeding finger up into the air. E.T. points his own finger towards Elliott. E.T.'s finger glows like a laser light as he says "ouch." He then presses this lit finger on Elliott's cut and heals it. 
[This establishes the fundamental goodness and healing power of E.T.] 
E.T. opens the slit in the closet door and continues to watch Mary read to Gertie the part where Tinker Bell is dying. 
"She says she thinks she can get well again if children believe in fairies. Do you believe in fairies? Say quick that you believe." "I DO! I DO! I DO!" says Gertie. "If you believe, clap your hands." Both Gertie and Mary clap their hands. Elliott places a blanket around E.T.'s shoulders and a scarf around his neck, as they listen to the rest of the story. "Thank you, thank you. And now to rescue Wendy," reads Mary. Elliott places his arm around E.T. 
[The Peter Pan story is used to set up the audience's emotional reactions to a fairy tale concerning near death and rescue. This emotional empathy will then be transferred to E.T., another "fairy-like creature" when he becomes sick and is rescued. Just as the audience felt like clapping for Tinker Bell, they will applaud the children's efforts to save E.T.] 
EXT: HOUSE: NIGHT 
Exhaust flows from the tailpipe of a van. This is the same type of poisonous exhaust image that the audience saw when vans drove into the forest at the beginning of the movie. 
[Jeopardy: the forces of the antagonist are still nearby.] 
INT: BEDROOM: NIGHT 
Elliott, dressed in white long-johns, sits on his bunkbed as he watches E.T. Michael stands next to him. Elliott comments that E.T. is putting together his instrument, while Mike fears that it might blow up the house. He also comments on the irregularity of E.T.'s breathing. 
Men get out of a parked car as Mary drives away. They take suitcases out of a second car, then walk up the driveway to Elliott's house. 
EXT: FOREST: NIGHT 
Elliott watches the treetops sway. He scratches his face, as does E.T. Together they stare at the stars. The wind causes the branch to sway, which then pulls the rope, which, in turn, pulls a fork across the saw blade. This drags the nails in the hanger across the flat surface of the blade, and sends signals out into space. Elliott is overjoyed and shouts that it works, while E.T. repeats the word "Home." Together they gaze up to the stars. 
[They have accomplished their objective of sending a message into space. Now, they wait to receive a signal back.] 
INT: ELLIOTT'S HOUSE: NIGHT 
The light from a flashlight crosses in front of a pumpkin's face. More light floods through the slits of Gertie's door. A hand holding a flashlight opens Gertie's door, and shines the light into the face of a black doll. 
[This has an irritating and frightening effect on anyone in the audience who has ever had the experience of having a light shined into their face.] 
Light from the flashlight searches around Gertie's room. 
INT: HALLWAY: NIGHT 
A pile of yellow electrical cord is stacked on the floor near a chair. It slowly unwinds as it is pulled by someone in Elliott's room. The door to Elliott's room is shut, with a poster sign hanging on it saying "DO NOT ENTER." The silhouette of a man passes behind the door, as sounds of a Geiger counter filter into the air. Muffled voices are heard as the cord is pulled to its fullest extent. It forces a chair to slam against the wall. 
[This last action has a jarring effect on the audience. Emotionally, the audience is outraged at the invasion of the children's rooms, and this creates hatred for the antagonist and his cohorts. They are still faceless so the audience can project the face of the persons they most hate onto these characters. This personalizes the story for them and gets them more intensely involved on an emotional basis. They also become intellectually involved, because the sounds of the Geiger counter and the extension of the cord to its maximum length forces them to infer that the antagonist has found E.T.'s "home" in the closet. This involves the audience in the story much more than if the filmmaker had shown the antagonist poking around in the closet.] 
EXT: FOREST: NIGHT 
"We have to go now E.T. It's so late already," Elliott says as both he and E.T. sadly gaze into the sky. 
[Their objective of receiving a return signal has not been achieved. Their sadness at failure creates empathy for them in the audience.] 
Elliott coughs from being out in the cold, damp air. 
[This is a setup for the later scenes when both Elliott and E.T. are deathly ill.] 
Elliott repeats that they really have to go home, but E.T. ignores him and has a sad expression on his face as he stares up to the sky. Elliott tells them that he has to give them some time. E.T. responds by saying "ouch," signifying that he feels pain. A small fawn watches them from a distance. 
Elliott is feverish from spending the night outside. Mary tells Gertie to go upstairs and draw him a bath. Mary walks over to the policeman (whose face is still unseen) and thanks him for his concern. 
Elliott asks Mike if E.T. is in the house. Mike shakes his head, indicating no. Elliot pleads with Mike to find him. He's somewhere in the forest near the bald spot. 
[This is the new objective: find E.T. and bring him back.] 
EXT: STREET: DAY 
Mike rides the bicycle with the basket in front down the driveway and into the street, past a car filled with waiting men. The car starts and follows Mike. He looks behind and realizes that he is being pursued. 
[This is a standard chase scene, with a friend who is trying to save the life of the protagonist being pursued. Both he and the protagonist are in jeopardy. Mike's new sub-objective is to lose those who are following him.] 
Mike cuts through a backyard and into an alley behind some houses. The car follows him. Mike then rides up an embankment and drives off in the opposite direction, leaving the car stranded behind. 
[He successfully accomplished his subobjective.] 
EXT: FOREST: DAY 
Mike rides through the forest as he calls out E.T.'s name. He stops and searches for E.T. Mike finds the abandoned communication device, then runs up a path and discovers E.T.'s white sheet hanging from the open gate. 
[The blue-orange colors of E.T.'s communication device are the same colors that Spielberg chose the logo of his production company, AMBLIN ENTERTAINMENT.] 
[This is the same gate near the landing site that the characters ran past in the opening sequence.] 
In another part of the forest, Mike rides his bike on a ridge above a stream. E.T lies in the water below, is skin discolored to that of sickly white. Mike sees him, grabs the sheet, then runs down the embankment. A raccoon wanders near E.T. Mike shouts him away, then covers E.T. Mike hears the sounds of a helicopter above him and looks up at the sky. 
[Mike has achieved his objective: he has found E.T. But, danger hovers above him in the unseen presence of the ever observing antagonist.] 
EXT: ELLIOTT'S HOUSE: DAY 
The shadow of a man falls on the driveway. The sound of keys jangling is heard. 
[High jeopardy: the antagonist is about to invade the home of the protagonist.] 
[This is the end of act two. The antagonist and his forces have invaded the home of the protagonist and taken them into possession. This terrifying invasion of the privacy of their home generates more empathy for Mary and her children.] 
EXT: STREET: DAY 
Men in helmets walk up a street as they push a large plastic tunnel. Police cars slowly drive up the street, as faceless men march to a drumbeat. 
[This is the beginning of the third act with the forces of the antagonist in complete control.] 
EXT: STREET: NIGHT 
Men with welding torches work on a truck. The plastic tunnel leads up the driveway to Elliott's house. The faces of the men are still not shown. They are either wearing helmets or are silhouettes. 
CLOSEUP 
The man with keys jangling on his side is putting on a pair of light-blue pants. 
INTERCUT: STREET 
Men are working outside. Large bright lights flood the area. 
INTERCUT: "KEYS" 
The man in the blue suit puts on a white pair of plastic gloves. Red and black colors on his cuff are associated with his keys as ominous music fills the soundtrack. 
[This is the only instance in this film where the traditional colors of the antagonist (red and black) are associated with the antagonist ("keys"). Putting on a light-blue outfit starts the transformation of the antagonist into a character worthy of audience empathy, for blue-white is the traditional production design colors signifying "innocence."] 
The man in the light-blue suit gets up walks through the plastic tunnel towards Elliott's house. He exits the tunnel and walks into the house which has been completely enclosed by plastic. 
Finally, the antagonist's face is shown. His head is covered by a blue hood while a light under his face mask accentuates his white shirt. 
Mary stands in the middle of the room with Gertie at her side. A doctor asks her questions about E.T., but Mary is more concerned with Elliott's state. A nurse cuts a lock from Gertie's hair (presumably for analysis), while both Elliott and E.T. can be seen on a video monitor. This nurse walks to Mike and cuts a piece of his hair while a doctor asks him questions about E.T. A video monitor shows Elliott and E.T. "Elliott thinks his thoughts," asks the doctor. "No, Elliott feels his feelings," answers Michael. 
[This is the first time in the film that the merging of Elliott and E.T. has been explicitly stated. Yet, this condition has been revealed to the audience non-verbally throughout the story. The verbalization seems redundant and not necessary, but does make sense as an explanatory comment to a character new to the story.] 
Two men ride inside the tan car. One speaks into the car radio saying that they'll get them at the bottom of the hill. The tan car pulls into the base of the hill and stops. One man gets out and starts to climb up the embankment. The bikers almost run him over. They ride over the hood of the car, then continue down the street, now pursued by a blue police car. 
The bikers cycle down a dirt road of a section of the community that is still under development. E.T., with the white blanket covering his head, sits in the basket of Elliott's bike. A blue car trails them. The bikers decide to split up. Two ride down an embankment. They are followed by another police car. The bikers then escape from their pursuers by riding down steep embankments. The cars cannot follow and must stop on different levels. The bikers unite and ride away. 
[It seems that the chase is over and they have eluded the antagonist.] 
The biker's are overjoyed by their victory. One takes off his hat, waves it in the air, and shouts "We've made it!" Suddenly, he quickly ducks to avoid being grabbed by a man. A group of men continue the chase. Several cars pull up ahead and form a blockade in the road. 
Elliott and E.T. ride forward. Horror grows on Elliott's face as he stares at the enemy in front of him. 
[This final confrontation between the protagonist (Elliott and E.T.) and the antagonist.] 
The antagonist is explicitly revealed at this moment. On the side panel of a car is a sign stating: 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY U.S. GOVERNMENT INTERAGENCY MOTOR POOL GSA 
The shadow of a shotgun covers the sign. Next, two shotguns are raised against E.T. and Elliott. 
Elliott shuts his eyes with fear. There is a closeup of E.T.'s face. With shotguns drawn, government agents gesture for them to stop. 
[This is the life and death final moment before the climax. The audience has been set up to expect that the government agents would shoot at the protagonist by Mary's comments in the park scene.] 
Suddenly, E.T. saves the day with his telekinetic powers. He lifts all of the bikers up into the air as they fly above the blockade. 
[The climax is over E.T. has saved himself and his friends] 
E.T. then flies the bikers over the housetops, and across the setting sun. Finally they float down onto a path in the forest. 
EXT: FOREST: DAY 
Elliott has reached the landing site. He brushes the leaves away from the turntable of the communication device. A blue-light floods Elliott's face. He looks up into the, along with the other bikers. E.T., with red-heart happily flashing, also gazes into the sky as his spaceship descends. "Home," says E.T. The spaceship continues its descent as E.T.'s red-heart flutters. The spaceship finally lands in a golden glowing light. 
A car pulls into the forest, and Gertie's voice can be heard pointing out the location of the boys. The ramp to the spaceship lowers. Gertie runs up to Mike and E.T. She gives E.T. the plant and says that she just wanted to say goodbye. Michael responds that E.T. doesn't know goodbye. "Be good," says E.T. "Yes," says Gertie, as she kisses him on the nose. Mike places his hand on E.T.'s head. 
