El Mariachi 
by Robert Rodriguez 
FADE IN: 
EXT. A JAIL IN MEXICO - DAY 
It's an early Friday morning and a patrol car drives up an unpaved road and parks next to a gutted police car on cinder blocks. The camera pans with the OFFICER as he exits his car and walks up to a ramp leading to the babay blue JAIL HOUSE. He is carrying a greasy bag of fast food. 
INT. JAIL LOBBY - DAY 
The Officer enters the lobby, tosses the bag of food to his PARTNER who is sitting at a desk. He grabs a tin cup and walks over to barred entrance to Block A. Twenty or so CRIMINALS, from drunks to drug dealers are sleeping peacefully in their cell on Block A. The Officer rattles the tin cup between the entrance bar. 
INT. JAIL CELLS - DAY 
The inmates stir, rubbing their dirty faces and trying to sit up. The camera dollies slowly down the narrow hallway of the block which has three cells: Two small ones side by side, and one bigger cell that faces the block entrance. The sound of scribbling and business dealing can be heard from inside the cell. It is AZUL jottin ginto a business ledger while chatting on his cellular phone. His cell is equipped with a small desk and a refridgerator. He hangs up the phone and continues writing. 
INT. JAIL LOBBY - DAY 
The Officer with the tin cup sits in a couch across from his partner, who is now eating, and reads a magazine. 
INT. JAIL CELLS - DAY 
Azul picks up his phone and makes another call. He talks business. In the other cell, prisoners are getting up and looking around. Azul hangs up the phone and writes. 
EXT. EL MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
A gorgeous, bikini-clad BABE struts slowly into a tighly framed glamour shot. She pauses, takes a deep breath, then dives a 'perfect ten' dive into a house-side moat. She swims long, slow motion strokes around the moat as the camera tracks alonside her, lovingly admiring her tan lines and hydrodynamic build. She slides out of the water and walks up a cobble stone walk, dripping as she passes a seated GENTLEMAN in a white suit. His face is unrevealed. As she enters the house, he sets his drink down by a phone. He lifts up the receiver and dials. 
INT. JAIL CELLS - DAY 
Azul's phone rings. He looks up at it, startled, as if no one has ever called him before. He glances at his watch, and then back at the phone, hesitating to answer it. He looks around the cell block as if someone might be playing a trick on him. Finally he answers it, pausing before saying hello. It is El Moco. 
MOCO (V.O.) Good morning, Azul. Do you know who this is? 
AZUL (into phone) Moco... What the hell do you want after all these years? 
EXT. EL MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
Azul looks out of the jail cell suspiciously. Peering down the hall, he sees the guys with the guns. He hides behind the wall, peering out to see what happens next. 
INT. JAIL LOBBY - DAY 
The Tall Men walk right up to the guard, and hand him a huge wad of money. The Guard tosses the money to his partner (still eating), then turns to unlock the block entrance bars. 
INT. AZUL IN JAIL CELL - DAY 
Azul puts the receiver back up to his mouth. 
AZUL (into phone) There are two men here with guns. Did you send them? 
EXT. EL MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
Moco, glancing at his watch, hangs up. 
INT. AZUL IN JAIL CELL - DAY 
Azul hangs up the phone and kicks his Bodyguard awake. The Bodyguard gets up and peers out the bars as Azul hides in a corner. 
INT. TALL MEN IN HALL - DAY 
The Tall Men walk steady and alert, ready to kill. They enter Azul's block and scope out the cells. 
The Bodyguard, seeing the tall men, retrieves his shotgun from under his mattress and grabs his machete from under the sink. He stands ready to fight. 
The Tall Men move slowly towards the big cell, somewhat cautious. They see the Bodyguard a second too late, for he sticks the shotgun between the bars, and shoots one of them before they can react. The shot one stumbles back into his buddy's arms. Azul's Bodyguard, amused by all this, opens his cell door effortlessly, and walks out as if to greet them. The Tall Men hear the sound of the other cells opening, so they turn around. The other prisoners on the block begin exiting their cells, carrying guns and Molotov cocktails. The Tall Man drops his gun. Finally, Azul exits his cell carrying his phone. The Bodyguard forces the Tall Men into an empty cell, closing and locking the door. 
Azul presses the #-button on his phone. Moco's phone number is automatically redialed. 
Moco answers. 
AZUL (into phone) I'm still here, Moco. And so are your little friends. But not for long. They have something they want to scream to you. Listen close, because you're going to repeat it to me when I come to visit you. 
INT. TALL MEN IN CELL - DAY 
The cellmates throw their Molotov cocktails into the cell. Moco hears the men screaming as they burn to death. Azul is holding the phone at arm's length into the cell. 
INT. JAIL LOBBY - DAY 
BARTENDER (cleaning a glass) Why? 
MARIACHI I'm a mariachi. A good one. I play beautiful ballads, old classic ballads, on an old-fashioned guitar. 
BARTENDER So what? 
MARIACHI I could add a little class to this place. I work for fairly cheap, I live mostly off tips. But I need steady work, and I can guarantee bringing in more customers. 
BARTENDER (nodding) Tell me, why would I need one little guitar player when I've already got a full band? 
Mariachi gives him a silent "what" look. 
The BARTENDER motions to a YOUNG MAN sitting near the small draped table. 
The Young Man removes the drape revealing a keyboard. Puts on his mariachi hat, dips his fingers into his shot glass and rubs his fingers together (as if warming up for the big show). He hits a few switches in EXTREME CLOSEUP as... 
... Mariachi adjusts himself to the seat. 
The Young Men gently taps one switch and the keyboard sounds like an accordion, pulsing out a beat. He then presses another switch and a horn section swells to a crescendo and waltzes the familiar riffs. He adds the string and horns accents by banging on the keys. He sounds awful. 
Mariachi grimaces slightly then turns back to the Bartender who seems to enjoy it. 
The Keyboard Mariachi finishes his song, sits back down. 
BARTENDER (nodding with satisfaction) There you see? Either I can pay one guy to sound like a full mariachi band... 
Mariachi picks up his guitar and lays some money next to his full drink. He looks disappointed. 
BARTENDER ... or I could spend the same money only get one little guitar player... Understand? 
MARIACHI (walking away) Thank you, sir. 
BARTENDER You want to earn a living? Get a real musical instrument. 
The Bartender picks up the bottle of soda pop Mariachis left behind and offers it to the other men on the table. They say no, pay, and leave. The Bartender offers it to the MEAN DUDES at the table. 
They all shake their heads no. 
The Bartender shrugs and dumps it. 
AZUL I'm looking for an old friend of mine. His name is... Moco. Do you know where I can find him. 
MAIN MEAN DUDE You can sometimes find him here. He owns this place. 
AZUL So you know him? 
MAIN MEAN DUDE We work for him. 
AZUL That's too bad. 
Azul turns to the mean Dude sitting to his left, and places the guitar in his hands. The Mean Dude is confused. 
AZUL Hold it please. 
Azul opens the case and pulls out the MAC-10. The other two Mean Dudes are already reaching for their pistols. 
The Bartender ducks beneath the counter. 
Azul fires a million bullets into two of the Mean Dudes, (the other is holding the case in shock). Their chests explode, causing neat little dollops of flesh and blood fly everywhere. The Mean Dude holding the guitar case is frozen with fear. He manages to look up at Azul, who is watching the Mean Dudes die a slow, bloody death. The barrel of the MAC-10 is smoking. Azul turns slowly to the Mean Dude holding the case. Azul aims his MAC-10 in the Dude's face. Still frozen holding the case, he spends his last moments looking down the gun's barrel. 
INT. BATHROOM - DAY 
The shots caused Old Mean Dude to peer out from his stall as the toilet paper fell to the ground and started to roll across the floor. He now watches it roll as more shots ring out. He pulls up his pants and and walks toward the door slowly. He is sweating profusely. He slowly picks up the toilet paper, plotting his next move. It grows silent... He takes a deep breath and rushes out the door. 
INT. CORONA CLUB MAIN ROOM - DAY 
The Old Dude bursts into the room with a roll of toilet paper in his hand, and a sheet of sweat sliding down his face. 
The Bartender rises up from behind the counter. 
The camera dollies slowly by the dead Dudes. Their blood-bathed faces twisted into odd shapes and expressions. The camera continues to dolly to the one dead Dude still holding the guitar case. His face is a bloody pulp. The camera stops dollying to the old Dude's mixed drink. A hand is stirring it with a straw. The camera pans up the arm to reveal Azul, standing expressionless with his gun sling over his shoulder. 
Shot at 16fps the Old Dude quickly drops the toilet paper and runs back inside the bathroom. 
Azul turns to his guitar case and carefully chooses another weapon. He grabs the drink and tosses a napkin over his arm like a waiter, then casually follows the Old Dude into the bathroom. 
The Bartenders glance at each other. One pours a shot glass full of tequila and raises it to his lips to drink it. Shots ring out and the Bartender spills the drink over himself. 
Without warning Azul bursts from the bathroom and walks calmly to his case. He replaces the weapon, picks up the case and leaves. 
Mariachi is turning a corner just as Mean Dude #5 exits the hotel. The Mean Dude walks off in the other direction. 
EXT. BOYSTOWN SALOON DOMINO'S - DAY 
Mariachi enters Domino's bar. DOMINO is waiting on a few bar bums that are nursing their jaws. Mariachi sits with them, asks for a refresco, He gets looks again. Domino serves him and he asks to see the owner. She says he's looking at the owner. He then asks her for work as a mariachi. She says she has no money to pay him. He looks arund the classy joint and knows she's lying (it turns out to be true, she has no money). When he asks how a girl can take care of herself in a town like this she stuffs a gun barrel in his mouth. He nurses his jaw, pays and leaves, as the others laugh. 
MARIACHI CHECKS IN TO HOTEL - DAY 
Mariachi enters the run-down lobby of the motel. The Viejo Clerk at the counter is reading his yellowed newspaper. Mariachi sees the Pit Bull laying by the counter. 
MARIACHI Pit bull. 
VIEJO CLERK Yeah, pit bull. 
MARIACHI I need a cheap room for a week, and I'd prefer to pay you in a few days, after I've found some work. 
VIEJO CLERK Sí, later... 
MARIACHI Thank you... 
The Old Man hands Mariachi a key for the second floor. 
MARIACHI Thank you, friend. 
As Mariachi walks away, the Clerk notices the guitar case and black clothes and he rereads the card Mean Dude left him. 
VIEJO CLERK (different tone of voice) Uh, excuse me señor? I forgot, I need a small deposit... 
Mariachi stops in his tracks. He turns back to the Clerk slowly... thinking. 
MARIACHI (walking back slowly) You can trust me. 
VIEJO CLERK I am very sorry, señor. But... how much can you spare? 
The dog is watching the event. 
MARIACHI (disappointed) I've only got a few pesos... I plan on finding work in town. 
VIEJO CLERK (grabbing money) Oh, that's enough for now, sir, thank you and... enjoy your stay. 
EXT. HOTEL COAHUILA - MEAN DUDES #5, 6, 7, 8 & 9 - DAY 
The Mean Dudes jump out of their truck and rush into the hotel, guns drawn. 
INT. HOTEL COAHUILA LOBBY - DAY 
The men burst into the lobby and the old men tells them the room number. They run out into the courtyard with the old man following. The Pit Bull is uninterested in the action. 
EXT. COURTYARD IN HOTEL COAHUILA - DAY 
The Mean Dudes run up the courtyard stairs and kick open the first door they come to and start blasting into the room. Screams are heard. The men stand back, and finally look down the steps at the Viejo Clerk who is waving his arms frantically. 
VIEJO CLERK 127!!! Cuarto 127, pendejos!!! 
They run to the room numbered 127 and cautiously stalk towards it as they reload their guns. 
INT. MARIACHI'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Mariachi is sitting on his bed listening to all this. He bolts to the restroom and turns to the shower. 
EXT. HOTEL COURTYARD - DAY 
Shot of men still stalking, cocking pistols. 
POV shot of what men see, as camera nears the door. 
INT. MARIACHI'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Mariachi rushes out of the bathroom towards the door. 
MARIACHI'S POV 
As camera nears the door, doorknob starts to move. Remembering that he never locked the door, he jumps to the side of the door as... 
EXT. HOTEL COURTYARD - DAY 
Men kick open the door and burst into the room. 
INT. MARIACHI'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
The truck turns a corner and the driver halts, comes out with a gun and tell Mariachi to get the hell out of his truck. Mariachi leaps out. He is about to continue running, but he stops, clenches his fists, and turns slowly as the camera dollies into his face. 
INT. MARIACHI'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Camera dollies into the guitar case on Mariachi's bed. 
EXT. DOWN THE BLOCK - DAY 
Mariachi runs back in the direction of the hotel, but as he turns the corner he has to slow down for the Mean Dudes are everywhere. Each one has his gun out and is looking around for the man in black. Mariachi walks slowly, whistling and nodding to everyone as they pass. A few look suspiciously at him but continue searching. Mariachi ducks inside the hotel. 
INT. HOTEL COAHUILA LOBBY - DAY 
Mariachi enters the lobby and winks at the old Clerk who is standing over his open register in shock. His eyes widen when he sees Mariachi. He runs out of the hotel. 
VIEJO CLERK (screaming, pointing inside) PENDEJOS!!! 
INT. MARIACHI'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Mariachi rushes in, grabs his jacket and puts it on. He grabs his guitar case and squeezes it tight, his eyes shut. Slow dolly into him, as his eyes open. 
CLOSEUP of plague on wall with mace and swords. He grabs the mace, swining it around a few times. He feels secure, now. He turns to leave. 
EXT. HOTEL COURTYARD - DAY 
Mariachi rushes out the door, he looks down and sees the Mean Dudes entering the courtyard. He ducks his head back just as they look up to see him. Mariachi runs up a smal flight of steps, where he then tosses his guitar onto a balcony, which he then jumps over to himself. 
The men rush up the steps shooting at the balcony. Bullets narrowly miss Mariachi as he climbs over the balcony to safety. 
INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - DAY 
Mariachi dashes down the hallway out onto a balcony. He sees no way down. 
EXT. COURTYARD BALCONY - DAY 
The Mean Dudes are climbing over the balcony like spiders. Mariachi runs back and slams his guitar into the first guy to make it over the balcony. His dummy falls down the stairs and over the narrow railing. The Dude splats on the ground in gruesome CLOSEUP. 
The old man looks over at him as he dies, then turns back as if nothing happened. Mariachi bolts back down the hill. 
EXT. FRONT BALCONY - HOTEL COAHUILA - DAY 
Mariachi nods an ashamed yes. 
Domino reaches for her gun under the counter. 
The camera is on Mariachi when she brings it out and points at him. 
MARIACHI (exhausted) Wait a minute... what's your name? 
DOMINO Domino. 
MARIACHI Wait a minute, Domino! It was self-defense. 
She cocks the pistol. 
MARIACHI (frantic) I'm new in town. I don't know everyone!!! I have no friends here... and no enemies. 
DOMINO (lowering the gun a bit) Thieves? 
MARIACHI (nodding) No way. They were well-dressed men. I checked into the cheapest hotel in town, no money, nothing of value, except this guitar and maybe this coat, which they could have taken when I left my room, but they didn't. They were only interested in killing me. 
DOMINO (lifting the gun back up) So why do you come here? You want to get me killed? 
MARIACHI I need a place to stay until I figure this out. They've got me mixed up with someone else. 
DOMINO And you've never seen them before? Not even in another town? 
MARIACHI (long pause) Are you saying they followed me, a mariachi, here? What for? 
DOMINO Maybe they hate your music. 
Mariachi stares at her expressionless. She stares back at him. 
DOMINO Maybe you were singing in another town, they hated your voice, and now they're trying to kill you. 
MARIACHI Are you serious? 
DOMINO (nodding) Yes. 
She laughes. 
Domino looks a little upset. She slides the phone towards him a bit. 
DOMINO Aren't you gonna call your boss? 
MEAN DUDE #5 (nodding) I have to tell Moco that he got away again... So, you better give me a drink first. 
Domino smiles and pours him half a beer mug with tequila. He laughs and drinks. As he's dialing, the camera is on Domino as she cleans up a few things, every once in a while glancing upstairs. 
MEAN DUDE #5 (into phone) Moco, he got away. Shot me in the arm. Killed La Palma. Pepino, Sunday. This guy is one slick maricon. Yeah. Also, I didn't get a look at him. So, unless he's still carrying that guitar around and hasn't changed clothes, I won't even spot him, and I don't think he'll be that obvious... 
MOCO (V.O.) Don't worry. If there's one thing I know, it's that he'll always wear black and he'll always carry that guitar with him. It's his signature. Besides, that's not a guitar he's carrying. It's a guitar case full of weapons. Find him. 
Mean Dude hangs up and puts his head in his hands. 
DOMINO Que paso? 
MEAN DUDE #5 I screwed up. The guy left his guitar case in the hotel room. We chased him out, but he came back for the case. 
DOMINO Maybe he loves his guitar. It's probably an antique. 
MEAN DUDE #5 It wasn't a guitar. It was a guitar case full of weapons that he uses on his victims. Adios, I'm gonna take a nap. And thanks for the drink. 
Mean Dude #5 stumbles as he tries to stand. 
MEAN DUDE #5 If you see this guy, call us. 
He is about to walk off with the bloody towel and he turns back pointing at it. She waves her hand at him, as if granting him permission to take it. She cleans his glass, and when he is gone she slams the glass down and runs for the stairs. A few seconds later she comes back into the bar, grabs the gun from under the counter and calls her assistant to watch the bar. He sees the gun and wonders what she's up to. She storms upstairs. 
INT. DOMINO'S LOFT - DAY 
Domino opens the door abruptly and finds Mariachi taking a bath. He bolts upright, pulls a towel up from the floor and sits frozen waiting for Domino's next move. She laughs and walks to the counter. 
DOMINO (friendly) I thought I told you not to touch anything. 
MARIACHI Sorry. I needed to relax. I can... 
DOMINO (smiling) No, it's alright, Finish up. Do you want shampoo? 
MARIACHI (laying back, closed eyes) Yes, please. 
MARIACHI I told you... I am a musician. 
Slow dolly into the case, which contains a white, well-kept classical guitar. Domino is seeing it, and for a moment she almost believes he is telling the truth. 
She rushes to it, grabs the guitar and tosses it to Mariachi. He catches it, choking after she releases the blade. She is on the other side of the tub, now. She jams the knife down between Mariachi's legs. Mariachi's eyes bug. 
DOMINO Play it. 
MARIACHI (still choking) W...w...what? 
Domino shoves the knife in deeper and Mariachi grimaces horribly. 
DOMINO Play it, damnit, play something sweet!!! 
Mariachi is sweating and his face is extremely red. He pauses for a long time before plucking an odd note. She squints as if she's caught him. But he eventually starts picking out a sweet little melody. 
DOMINO (growing impatient) SING! 
Mariachi starts to sing but chokes on the words. He starts over, playing a "Rancho Grande" sounding song with his own made up words. 
MARIACHI (in a high sweet voice) What is this place? That treats me like a murderer? They've all got their heads up their butts... Even this beautiful girl, With a knife to my balls, Should I kiss her or hit her... Or both? 
He finishes his song, bowing and thanking his imaginary audience. Domino is smiling. She pulls the knife slowly out of the water and wipes it off on her apron. 
DOMINO You're a mariachi, all right. And a good one. 
Mariachi bows a solemn thank you. 
MARIACHI I think this is the best I've ever played. You... inspired me. 
CLOSEUP of the knife. 
She laughs. 
MARIACHI Hire me. 
Domino looks at him with a silent "what?". 
MARIACHI I'm good. Hire me to play in your bar. I'll work mostly from tips. But, I need steady work. 
EXT. MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
Moco is sitting in his pool. A swimming WAITER is bringing him drinks. 
MOCO (into phone) Amigo! I'm glad I've reached you! You've not answered all day. Killing ten of my men must have been very time consuming! 
AZUL (into phone) Six. 
MOCO (into phone) What? 
AZUL (into phone) I've only killed six! You were always bad at maths, Moco. I guess that's why you never paid me half of the money. You thought it all belonged to you. 
MOCO (into phone) I knew half was yours... I got greedy, my friend. It's my nature. But you!!! You are modest! You've killed ten of my men!! I know, because I'm having them buried in my yard right now. With my dogs and cats. 
AZUL (counting on his fingers, into phone) I killed six. But don't bother counting so soon. The number will triple by tomorrow. 
MOCO (into phone) I'm sorry things turned out this way. My friend. I got greedy. I should never have tried to kill you. It would have been cheaper for me to pay you. Now I've got to find ten new men. 
AZUL (into phone) Six. 
MOCO (into phone) Ten. 
AZUL (into phone) I tell you what. You give me my money, and I won't kill any more of your men... And I won't kill you. 
MOCO (takes a sip, into phone) No, it's too late for that. We're going to have to see this through. 
AZUL (into phone) Just like the Moco I used to know. Still wearing white? 
MOCO (looking down at his clothes, into phone) What do you think? 
AZUL (into phone) I think you should change clothes. I'd hate to ruin a white suit with your stupid blood. 
Azul hangs up. He gets dressed and leaves. The little Rats are about to follow, but one Rat walks over to get one look at the girls. The girls tease him, and when he tries to advance them, they pull guns and laugh as the Rat runs away. 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Domino walks by with a trash can. Mariachi is sitting on a barstool. 
MARIACHI I need to get my money back from that hotel. I'll be right back. 
ASSISTANT Can I get something to drink or eat? 
AZUL One beer. 
The Assistant grabs a mug and starts to fill it at the tap. He fills it halfway when... 
AZUL In a bottle, wey. 
ASSISTANT (laughs) Sorry. 
He grabs a bottle and hands it to Azul, then lifts the mug, toasts and drinks it straight down. 
Azul drinks his straight down, too. 
AZUL (looking around) Isn't there a girl that works here? 
ASSISTANT Yeah, she owns the place. 
AZUL (heading a few bills to the Assistant) She owns it, now? Then she is Moco's girl? 
ASSISTANT (looking around) So-so. She's onto this new musician. 
Azul takes out a few more bills and hands them to the Assistant, and begins to stand up. 
AZUL Thank you. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Mariachi is out on the streets, returning to Domino's. 
EXT. BOYSTOWN SALOON - DAY 
As he crosses the street he notices Azul leaving the saloon with a guitar case. Mariachi runs into the saloon. 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Mariachi runs inside and checks to see if his case is still there. Domino comes downstairs. 
MARIACHI I just saw a guy with a guitar case like mine. It's him they want. 
He unsnaps three more... SNAP... SNAP... SNAP! 
MEAN DUDE #5 ... then we'll spray paint this street with your brains. 
He points the gun deep into Azul's face and cocks it. Azul closes his eyes. Mean Dude #5 lifts the lid. Azul hears a faint strumming sound, followed by the sound of the Mean Dude slamming the case shut. Azul opens his eyes. The Mean Dude resnaps the latches. SNAP... SNAP... SNAP-SNAP-SNAP!!! 
MEAN DUDE #5 (walking away) Sorry.... 
They walk away leaving Azul wondering what happened. 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Domino, Mariachi, and Assistant are standing at the bar. 
DOMINO Look, as long as you don't carry the case around, they'll leave you alone. It's that guy they're after. 
MARIACHI (putting on his coat) I better put this upstairs... 
He grabs the case and begins to take it to the stairs, but he pauses for it feels different to him. He slowly looks down at it. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Azul watches the Mean Dudes go and when tey turn the corner he puts the case on the ground to open it. 
EXT. AROUND THE CORNER - DAY 
The Mean Dudes are rounding the corner, but Mean Dude #5, who is last, snaps his fingers and motions to the others to keep quiet and to watch Azul 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Mariachi shakes the case, and puts it on the counter as if to open it... but he doesn't need to check it. He knows it's not his guitar. 
DOMINO What's wrong? 
Mariachi looks at her startled, then runs out of the bar with the case. 
EXT. AROUND THE CORNER - DAY 
Mean Dudes are watching Azul unsnap his case. 
Mariachi pulls out the MAC-10 and blasts the first Mean Dude he sees. He grabs the case and runs out into the street, jumping onto a truck and blasting the other Mean Dude from up there. He sees Mean Dude #5 run away. 
Mariachi comes off the truck and walks through the streets in slow motion. Peolple are staring at him as if he was Azul the killer. Mariachi walks straight to the bar. A BOY is bouncing a ball on one of the sidewalks. 
INT. AZUL'S HIDEOUT - DAY 
The camera dollies past the vacant pool table, and over to a Rat sitting in a chair, drinking a beer. The other Rat is pacing back and forth in front of the sitting Rat. Azul enters the room. Throwing his guitar case onto the pool table as a grand entrance gesture. The sitting Rat stands beside the pacing Rat. 
RAT #1 I'm sorry we left... 
RAT #2 ... We didn't know what to do... 
RAT #1 ... We figured you could defend yourself!!! 
Rat #2 nods in agreement. Azul unsnaps one of the latches. SNAP! 
AZUL You thought I could defend myself... 
SNAP! SNAP! 
AZUL ... against three armed men... 
SNAP! 
AZUL ... using this? 
He opens the case and the guitar sparkles at them. The Rats exchange glances. They look at the guitar then back at Azul. 
AZUL My case got switched with some maricon mariachi! 
RAT #1 Where is this mariachi? 
AZUL He's dead by now... So, I want you to go look for my case. 
The two Rats are about to leave. 
AZUL Leave me a wepon. 
Both Rats take out their guns. Azul takes Rat #2's gun. 
DOMINO I was on the phone, talking to a friend that knows what's going on. 
MARIACHI Did you mention me? 
DOMINO No... He told me the man in black is Azul. 
MARIACHI If his name is Azul, why doesn't he wear blue? 
DOMINO I don't know... Anyway, he's killing the men of the town drug dealer. The dealer's name is Mauricio. But he's known as Moco. 
MARIACHI And Moco is sending these men to find Azul. So, why do they chase me? 
DOMINO They have never seen Azul... only Moco knows him. My friend says the description Moco gave his men was that he wears black, and carries a guitar case. Sounds like you, no? 
MARIACHI Couldn't you tell your friend that there are two people like that in his town? One is a killer, and one is a mariachi. 
DOMINO Only special people can talk to Moco. Besides, you've killed a few of his men, now. Your best option is to keep out of sight, stop wearing black, and to hide that stupid case until this is all over. 
EXT. MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
Mean Dude #5 comes in and approaches Moco. 
MEAN DUDE #5 He got away... but I got a good look at him. 
Moco takes out a cigarette and puts it in his mouth. 
MEAN DUDE #5 Coca, Caca, Beto were killed. 
Moco takes out a match. 
MEAN DUDE #5 He won't get away again, Moco. I promise. 
Moco lights his match across Mean Dude #5's face and lights his cigarette. Mean Dude #5 walks away, as Moco flicks his match at him in slow motion. 
INT. DOMINO'S LOFT - NIGHT 
Mariachi is about to lay on the floor. She tosses him a blanket. 
MARIACHI Are you always closed Monday nights, or did you close since I can't play my guitar tonight? 
MARIACHI Same thing. 
DOMINO Look, you now how if you want to impress a girl, you send her flowers, candy, jewelry until you win her love? 
MARIACHI Yes. 
DOMINO If one present doesn't work, you keep sending bigger and better things until you win her or you're broke? 
MARIACHI Correct... 
DOMINO Well, Mauricio sent me flowers, then jewelry, then he gave me a job at his saloon, then he gave me the whole saloon... etc. 
MARIACHI He's still giving you things? 
DOMINO He'll never run out of money. 
MARIACHI And you accept it all? What's the last thing he sent you? 
Domino walks over to the counter and picks up a key. 
DOMINO A motorcycle. 
Mariachi laughs. 
DOMINO He wants me to ride out to his ranch when I've decided to be his. He thinks he's close to having me. 
MARIACHI Is he? 
DOMINO (pause) He was. 
She sits next to Mariachi. 
DOMINO Not anymore. 
They kiss. She gets up and is about to turn off the lights. 
MARIACHI So, you really are from a poor family. 
CLICK! 
LOCO (laughs, into walkie-talkie) He got in my truck. 
Mean Dude #5 laughs. 
MEAN DUDE #5 (into walkie-talkie) Take him around the block. 
Mean Dude #5 taps his buddy and they start running down the block. 
Mariachi is in back the truck searching for a weapon. The truck stops. Mariachi rolls to the side and gently lifts his head. 
POV Mariachi sees the two Mean Dudes walking at him. Mariachi turns and Loco is there to knock him in the face with the rifle butt. Mariachi falls into truck, blood trickling from his dizzying head. He tries to get up a bit, but Loco is in the truck now, and slams the rifle down into his face hard... Blackout. 
DUSTY ROAD TO MOCO'S 
Mariachi is unconcious in the back of Loco's truck. Mean Dude #5 and other Mean Dudes are riding in back with Mariachi. 
EXT. ROAD TO MOCO'S - DAY 
The above scene intercuts back and forth with the arrival of Loco. Loco arrives at the gate, Mean Dude #5 opens the gate, they drive through. The truck is facing Moco so he can't see Mariachi yet. Mean Dude #5 closes the gate and walks over to the truck, opens the back door, and calls Moco over. Moco walks over to the truck and looks inside. 
EXT. TRUCK - DAY 
Mariachi is laying there unconcious, Moco puts his arm around Mean Dude #5, who is looking very proud, and Moco pulls out a cigarette and a match. 
MOCO That's not him. 
Moco strikes the match behind Mean Dude #5's head. Mean Dude #5 stops smiling. 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Domino is waiting on customers. She glances at her watch. A few seconds later she glances at it again. She looks very worried. 
INT. AZUL'S HIDEOUT - DAY 
Azul's Rats burst into the hideout. FOUR GIRLS pop up over the partition with guns. The Rats stop in their tracks. The girls sigh a "oh, it's them" sigh and slink back to bed. Top shot of them trying to wake Azul. Azul wakes up and looks over the partition. 
AZUL Where's my case? 
RAT #1 We couldn't find it. 
