THE ELEPHANT MAN 
Written by 
Christopher De Vore, Eric Bergren & David Lynch 
Based on 
"The Elephant Man, A Study in Human Dignity" 
by 
Ashley Montagu 
BLACK 
FADE IN: ABSTRACT DREAM 
CLOSE-UP of a gold framed miniature portrait of JOHN MERRICK'S MOTHER (tune or melody over her picture, heartbeat), which DISSOLVES TO CLOSE-UP of real Mother smiling A shadow comes over her face. CLOSE-UP of elephant ears, trunks, faces moving. 
Dark, heavy feet stomping elephant trumpet, rearing up. 
Powerful hit and the Mother falls. Darker. Trunk slides over Mother's face and breasts and stomach, leaving a moist trail. 
MOTHERS POV of elephant's mouth, eyes, skin. Mother's face twists and freezes in a blurred snap roll. 
BLACK again. Knock, knock sound. Curtain opens to horrified faces. 
CUT TO BLACK AND SILENCE 
CIRCUS 
FADE IN TO steam shooting out of a huge old half-rusted calliope. The music is very loud and raucous. Moving up and back we see the black awning entrance to the freak tent, where FREDERICK TREVES, Resident Surgeon and Lecturer on anatomy at the London Hospital, is standing with his back to us observing the posters of the freaks. 
Coming along a muddy walkway at the side of the tent is Treves' wife, ANNE, and their two DAUGHTERS. The shrill over- whelming music seems to engulf her. 
She looks discomfited, vulnerable, and protective of her daughters. The girls, oblivious to any fear, are finishing their chocolate sweets. 
CLOSE-UP of Treves looking at a poster. 
He hears: 
#1 DAUGHTER Poppa! 
Treves turns and looks down to a chocolate-covered face. He smiles at the children and Anne. 
Anne sees the dirty faces and begins cleaning one of them. The other daughter looks into the freak tent. 
#2 DAUGHTER Poppa... may we go in there? 
ANNE Alright... Your turn. 
She turns the girl away from the freak tent and begins cleaning her face. 
Her kerchief pulls and distorts the little daughter's face. Suddenly the girl sees a ring of elephants in the distance. 
#2 DAUGHTER Oh,look M-ummy! Elephants! 
ANNE Oh, elephants! We'll go see them. 
She stands. 
ANNE (to Treves) You won't be long? 
TREVES I'll join you shortly. 
She takes the children off toward the elephants. 
Treves watches them go for a moment, then turns and we go with him into the dark freak tent. He pauses to pay admission at a small booth, then disappears within. 
DARKNESS. We hear what could be the trumpeting of an elephant. 
Treves parts the black canvas and enters the main part of the tent. Off to his left he sees a man wrapped in a black cape, holding a conch shell aloft and blowing powerfully into it. The tent is dimly lit with flickering oil lamps. People mill about through the weaving corridors. To Treves' right, he sees a sign reading, "The Deadly Fruit of the Original Sin," over a small, very dark corridor. 
Treves enters the passage and disappears into the shadows. 
The corridor has a series of flaps and turns to disorient the spectator. 
Treves carefully pushes his way through and arrives at the inner chamber. 
In a roped-off space stands a small stage set at eve-level, with curtains on three sides. On the stage is a bell jar filled with grey-murky fluid lit from behind with casts an eerie glow in the chamber. Suspended in the fluid is the life-sized body of a baby-doll with the attached head of a large snake. At the join of head and body is a blob of unidentifiable organic matter. It is obviously phony, but the effect is still very disquieting. At the bottom of the jar, in the muck, sits an apple with two large bites out of it. Behind the jar is a painting on the order of a religious triptych, portraying Adam on one side, Eve on the other, and the tree flowering over the jar. 
Treves' impassive face is bathed in the watery glow. He studies the strange object with a critical eye. In the passage we hear movement, and an OLDER GENTLEMAN enters. He seems visibly impressed with "The Deadly Fruit of the Original Sin." 
OLDER MAN A wicked birth... 
After a moment, Treves quietly leaves the inner chamber. 
As he pushes his way through the corridor, the noise grows and becomes a cacophony of strange sounds. He exits and hears a booming roar and the rush of air as a series of twelve candles, mounted in a row on a ten-foot stand, are blown out by "THE INCREDIBLE WIND-MAN." His BARKER steps up and talks to the people. 
BARKER Ladies and Gentlemen, his lungs are larger than this mammoth blacksmith's bellows. So great is his power of exhalation, rivaling even that of the Great North Wind, that he will now challenge two grown men to attempt to hold the bellows shut as he applies the mighty blast of his herculean breath! Are there any volunteers? 
A few people raise their hands. The Barker scans the crowd and then points over the heads of the volunteers to TWO MEN toward the back. 
BARKER Ah! I see two likely lads! Come forward! Come forward! Pit your strength against the Mighty Wind- Man! 
OWNER (to himself) ...Movin' again! 
He shakes his head in disgust. 
Now at the canvas, Treves tries to lift the edge to get a peek inside the wagon, but the meaty hand of the Owner clamps down on his wrist. 
OWNER Have a care, guv'nor. 
The two men look at each other for a solid moment. 
TREVES Forgive me... 
Treves backs away and returns his gaze to the painted canvas. 
FADE TO BLACK: 
OPERATING ROOM - THE LONDON HOSPITAL 
We see a bellows pumping air into the open grate of a cast iron stove. We hear moaning in the background. The coals flare to a fierce glow. From the mouth of the stove protrude the handles of several cauterizing irons, their heads imbedded in the coals. Up above the irons, Treves stands by a waist- high operating table covered with black leather. His face is illuminated by an oil lantern held by a nurse. 
The room is fairly dark owing to the oppressive overcast sky seen through two windows. There is also a large sink, a cupboard containing dressings, gags, manacles, emetics and other unattractive things, and two hard chairs. 
TWO STUDENTS and two other DOCTORS, MR. FOX and MR. HILL, are present. The two Students are pulling with constant pressure on a rope tied to the patient's leg. Treves and Mr. Fox are working on a chest wound caused by a machine accident. There are gear-wheel marks getting progressively deeper as they near a great open gash. Mr. Hill places a cotton mask over the patient's nose and mouth and applies drops of chloroform. The patient struggles, but soon his moans subside and he is unconscious. 
TREVES How long has this man been here? 
FOX Three quarters of an hour. 
TREVES Mmmm. Hodges, Pierce come closer. Mr. Hill, take hold of the rope please. It's a machine accident. I expect you'll be seeing a good deal of this. 
The two medical Students come forward. They stare uneasily at the gaping wound, which bubbles each time the man takes an agonized breath. 
Treves and Fox quickly and expertly tend the wound as Hodges and Pierce look on. 
TREVES (off handedly) Abominable things these machines. One can't reason with them. 
FOX What a mess. 
Treves now notices that the student's faces have gone a trifle ashen. 
TREVES What got you into medicine, Hodges? 
HODGES My father, sir. He's built quite a successful practice. I hope to take it over one day. 
TREVES Is that your case as well, Pierce? 
PIERCE Yes sir. Though of course I do have a great desire to help my fellowman. 
Treves smiles at them knowingly. 
TREVES Of course you do realize that medicine has changed quite a bit since your father's time. In those days we didn't even wash our coats. In fact, the sign of a truly accomplished surgeon-- was his black operating coat, so stiff with dried blood and pus that it could stand up by itself in the corner. I've still got mine upstairs... You don't mind blood, do you? 
HODGES & PIERCE Oh no, sir. (etc.) 
TREVES Good, that's one thing we've always plenty of. 
HALLWAY 
A hospital MESSENGER BOY, dressed in a blue uniform and a can is making his way down the hall. He stops and looks into an operating room much like the one we have just seen. 
Inside, the room is empty. The Boy closes the door and continues on to another operating room. The Doctors move with great urgency around the operating table. Blood is draining down into a white porcelain bowl. A Woman can be heard moaning. The Boy looks carefully, but finally closes the door and continues on his way. 
TREVES' OPERATING ROOM 
There is a hissing sound and steam from the cauterizing of the wound comes up obscuring part of Treves' face. The patient is being held down firmly by the other men. 
The door opens and Treves looks up. The Boy pops his head in. 
BOY Excuse me, Mr. Treves, sir. 
TREVES Yes? 
BOY I found it. 
TREVES (studying the Boy carefully) Did you see it? 
The Boy shakes his head slowly, "No." 
TREVES I'll be with you in a moment ... 
The Boy closes the door. 
FOX (quietly) I say Freddie, what are you about? 
TREVES Oh nothing... nothing of any great importance. 
AERIAL SHOT from third floor of the London Hospital looking down on the hospital square. 
Below, Treves is walking briskly across the square, through a gate and into the slums beyond. 
The aerial shot is actually FOX'S POV, and now we see Fox filled with curiosity, watching the figure from a window. 
Looking down from above and to the side of him, we follow Treves walking through a cobblestone street still wet from a recent rain, covered with horse manure and filth of all sorts. The air is smoky from meat burning fires. 
Rounding a corner, we see and approach the painted canvas sign of "The Elephant Man" covering the front of a small, dingy shop. The door of the shop is windowless and padlocked. Treves walks into the picture, studies the whole scene for a moment, goes to the shop door and finds that it is padlocked. 
The Elephant Man completes his turn and comes to rest. 
We see a CLOSE-UP of the Elephant Man looking at Treves. His face is utterly devoid, and incapable, of expression. 
We see the Elephant Man's eyes. He closes them. 
OUTSIDE THE SHOP 
The Owner is locking up. 
Treves, facing the street, drinks in the fresh air. He is trying to forget his shock, put everything into focus. 
He looks at the garish portrait again. 
Treves produces his purse. 
The Owner, smelling money, turns. 
Treves hands him several coins. 
TREVES So you'll bring him to me, tomorrow, 10:00 a.m.? Mr...? 
OWNER Bytes. Mr. Bytes. He'll be there. 
TREVES I'll send a cab. Here is my card. 
Treves hands the Owner a card. The Owner, greasy and dirty, shakes Treves' hand and squeezes his arm. 
OWNER Now we got a deal... We understand each other... guv. We understand each other completely. 
The Owner gives Treves the evil look of a conspirator. 
Treves walks off, disoriented. 
The Owner reads the card and smiles at Treves walking away down the street. 
DISSOLVE TO OUTSIDE THE SHOP 
A CABMAN is knocking on the door of the shop, staring at the portrait. The door opens, revealing a figure in a floor-length black cloak. On his head is an extremely large hat, cut to the lines of a yachting cap. A grey-flannel curtain hangs from the bottom of the cap all the way around, hiding his face. 
There is a horizontal slit in front for the eyes. On the figure's feet are large, bag-like slippers. The only part of the body seen at all is the left arm and hand, which protrudes from the cloak, holding a crude walking stick. 
The figure seems to loathe being in the open. We can just barely see in the darkness within the Owner standing to one side of the door, obviously enjoying the surprise on the Cabman's face. The Owner steps abruptly into his view. 
OWNER Don't just stand there. Help him up. 
The Cabman, does so, while a small, curious crowd forms. The Owner gives the Cabman the card. The Cabman jumps up onto the seat and off they go. 
THE RECEIVING ROOM - LONDON HOSPITAL 
The receiving room is a bare hall, painted stone color. It has rows of benches and a long desk where entries are made, and certificates and other papers are issued. It is a cold, harsh place. 
CABMAN Not at all, sir. My... pleasure. 
He exits. 
Treves turns and sees the Matron, staring. 
TREVES I'll be in my rooms, Mothershead. I'm not to be disturbed. 
She nods silently. Treves looks at the figure for a moment. 
TREVES Come with me, please. 
He starts to go out of the room. The hooded figure just stands there, motionless. 
We see the whole room, the people now silent. They all stare at the figure. 
No one makes a move. 
MATRON You heard the doctor... Go on. 
Treves turns to look at the hooded figure who stands there a moment, then slowly shuffles after him. Mrs. Mothershead and the people in the room watch him go. When he is out of sight, they all begin to talk excitedly. 
Mothershead stands fixed and watches too, ignoring the noisy room. 
TREVES' OFFICE 
The door opens and Treves leads the hooded figure to a chair in front of his desk and helps him to sit down, furtively trying to look into the eye-slit of the mask. In the small room the smell of the Elephant Man is overwhelming. 
Treves goes to the window and opens it. He nervously tries to compose himself, then turns to the hooded figure. 
TREVES My name is Frederick Treves... I am a surgeon here at the London Hospital, and I lecture in anatomy at the Medical College... I would very much like to examine you. Would that be all right? 
The figure in the chair is still. Treves is at a loss. His sense of discomfort is growing. He looks at the floor for a moment, then locks his eyes on the figure's left arm. 
TREVES Ah... yes. Um, first I would like to ask you a few questions, would that be all right? 
The figure does nothing. Treves sits down at his desk and picks up a pencil. 
TREVES Good. Now, let's see. Your Owner... um, the man who... who looks after you tells me that you are English and your name is John Merrick. Is that correct? 
The figure does nothing. 
TREVES Do you know where you were born? Where you come from? 
DISSOLVE TO LECTURE HALL - PATHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON 
BRIGHT LIGHT 
As we pull back and down in a slow spiral we see the light is coming through high windows. We now see several rows of distinguished doctors talking to each other in anticipation. As we continue to spiral down we see Treves before them at a podium. Behind him are two ASSISTANTS standing beside a curtained stall. Treves raps a pointer stick on the podium to bring the meeting to order. We move behind the stall as the Assistants part the curtains and we see the silhouette of the Elephant Man. The doctors talk among themselves quietly. 
TREVES He is English, he is twenty-one years of age and his name is John Merrick. Gentlemen, in the course of my profession I have come upon lamentable deformities of the face due to injury or disease, as well as mutilations and contortions of the body, depending upon like causes; but, at no time have I met with such a dreaded or perverted version of a human being as this man. I wish to draw your attention to the insidious conditions affecting this patient. Note, if you will, the extreme enlargement of the skull... and upper limb, which is totally useless. The alarming curvature of the spine... Turn him, please... the looseness of the skin, and the varying fibrous tumors that cover 90% of the body. 
Treves' voice fades as we DISSOLVE TO the Doctors, who at first were rigid and flustered, and now bent forward, concentrating, obviously consumed with interest. 
Spiraling down again we see Treves finishing his lecture. 
TREVES ...And there is every indication that these afflictions have been in existence, and have progressed rapidly, since birth. The Patient also suffers from chronic bronchitis. As an interesting side-note, in spite of the afore-mentioned anomalies, the patient's genitals remain entirely intact and unaffected. 
Treves nods to the Assistants and they go to the Elephant Man. We see them in shadow untying the loose knot of the loin cloth. 
CLOSE-UP of the shadow of the head of the Elephant Man. It goes up for a breath. 
TREVES So then, gentlemen, owing to this series of deformities: The congenital exostoses of the skull; extensive papillomatous growths and large pendulous masses in connection with the skin; the great enlargement of the right upper limb, involving all the bones; the massive distortion of the head and the extensive areas covered by papillomatous growth, the patient has been called, "The Elephant Man." 
TREVES OFFICE 
The Elephant Man (hereafter the E.M.) wearing his cloak, is seated by the desk. Treves stands behind him, measuring his head with calipers. He removes the calipers and notes the span, then sets them on the desk. He places the hood over the E.M.'s head. Treves sits at his desk and makes some final notes. He becomes more absorbed in his notes than in the E.M. The E.M. makes an unintelligible sound. 
TREVES Hmm? 
The E.M. is silent. Treves, only now realizing that the E.M. has said something, looks up at him. 
TREVES Hmm? 
The E.M. is silent. Treves passes it off as a sigh and turns back to his work. 
TREVES It's been a long day for everyone. 
He closes his notebook and rises. He remembers something. 
TREVES Oh, yes, you'll need a cab... (to the E.M.) Stay. 
He exits. The E.M. is alone. He rises and shuffles slowly about, investigating the room. He goes to the desk and begins touching things, including the calipers. He notices the card Treves gave to the Owner tucked in the back pages. He pauses for a moment and then takes the card. His hand disappears into the cloak, and he moves back into the corner behind the stiff, black operating coat. 
Treves re-enters. 
TREVES Come with me. 
The E.M. takes up his stick and follows Treves out. 
UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - THE LONDON HOSPITAL 
We see Treves and Fox alone at a window. They are looking down on the hospital square Treves had previously crossed and see the E.M., lit by gaslight and moving to a waiting cab. 
FOX You never mentioned his mental state. 
TREVES He's imbecile, no doubt from birth. He speaks, but... it's all gibberish. No, the man's a homeless idiot... (to himself) I pray God he's an idiot. 
The E.M., as he is getting into the cab, stops, turns and looks to the upper stories of the hospital. Treves and Fox are joined by three laughing colleagues who clap Treves on the back. 
THE FIRST Quite a coup, Freddie. You'll look splendid in the journal. 
THE SECOND Where ever did you find that creature? 
From the upper story we watch the cab drive away. 
THE THIRD (V.O.) It's a pity. 
FOX (V.O.) I pity the poor cab driver, myself. 
From outside the window we see Treves surrounded by his laughing friends. 
ENTRY HALL - TREVES' HOME 
We see a door. It opens and Treves walks in. He shuts the door, locks it, goes to a coat rack on the wall and hangs up his overcoat and hat. He notices his reflection in a mirror and examines himself wearily. Anne's smiling reflection appears beside his. 
ANNE Did it go well, darling? 
TREVES Yes, very well, I think. Are the girls in bed? 
ANNE Yes, and they send their kisses. Would you like your sherry now? 
TREVES No, I think a whiskey. 
We move past Anne's reflection to a CU of Treves. 
WHITECHAPEL - NIGHT 
We now see a bunsen burner roar of flame reflected in Bytes' eyes. Pulling back we see Bytes, quite drunk, sitting, cooking sausages over the hot brick. 
He takes another drink from his gin bottle. Up comes a wet belch and he takes another drink. 
The E.M. is crouched against the wall with a bowl of potatoes and a cup of water in front of him. With his good hand, he is picking tiny pieces of potato and feeding himself. The eating is fairly loud and animal-like. The drinking is even worse. 
The Boy is across the room asleep, wrapped in ragged little blankets. 
The E.M. takes a drink of water, making a loud smacking, slurping sound. 
Bytes looks up from his cooking with a smoldering look, just waiting for him to make the sound again. He does and Bytes takes his crop and violently jabs him. 
TREVES (gazing at him levelly) Everything will be seen to. 
MORNING - AERIAL SHOT LOOKING DOWN ON HOSPITAL SQUARE 
Through a window we see Treves and the E.M. walking through a back gate and across the square. MR. CARR GOMM, Hospital Chairman, turns and moves away from the window. 
HALLWAY 
NURSE NORA IRELAND is pushing a cart filled of empty breakfast trays down the hall. She glances into the stairwell and sees Treves and the E.M. coming through the door. She continues on, startled by the sight of the mysterious hooded figure. At the end of the hall, she goes into the kitchen. 
STAIRWAY 
Treves and the E.M. are laboriously climbing a flight of stairs. The E.M. is puffing and wheezing with the effort. Treves supports him under his right arm. 
KITCHEN 
Nora enters with the cart and waits for it to be restocked. She leans out the door for another look, but the hall is empty. A Nurse ladles mush into bowls. 
There is a lot of activity in the kitchen. Nora takes the cart stacked with full trays and pushes it out the door and down the hallway. 
HALLWAY 
Treves and the E.M. cross the hallway and head up a narrow stairway towards the attic. There is a sign reading "Isolation". 
Carr Gomm is leaning out the door to his office, unseen by Treves. He closes the door. 
GENERAL WARD - LONDON HOSPITAL - MORNING 
It is a long, high ceilinged room with large windows along one wall. Beds run the length of both sides of the room. It is a woman's ward and nurses are serving the patients breakfast. Nora enters and nurses take trays from her cart. Nora's mind is on what she has just seen. We see Mothershead come in the door behind her. 
MOTHERSHEAD (startling Nora) Nora! Mind your duties... if you don't concentrate dear, you'll only make more work for the rest of us. Now, get about your business. (pauses, seeing Nora's collar) ...and do get your collar straight, dear. 
NORA (fumbling with her collar) I'm so sorry, Mrs. Mothershead. 
MOTHERSHEAD Do get on with it, Nora. 
Mothershead walks on, as Nora now very flustered, picks up a tray. 
ISOLATION WARD 
CU of a bottle of dark fluid and a bottle of light fluid. Treves mixes the two in a glass. We are in a small oddly shaped room off the attic ward. 
There is one tiny barred window located high up on the far wall. There is also a bed, two hard chairs and a table. The E.M. is sitting on the bed in shadow and his disguise is now hanging from a peg on the wall beside him. He is still wheezing and appears to be very weak. Treves serves the mixture to the E.M., who sputters and gags on it, but manages to get it down. Treves goes to the table and puts the two bottles in his bag. He goes to the door and turns to the E.M. 
TREVES I don't know if you will understand this, but you will never go back to that man again. You're safe now. No one will ever harm you. Do you understand? 
The two men just look at each other. 
KITCHEN - LONDON HOSPITAL 
Treves enters the kitchen and nicks up a bowl. A NURSE ladles some porridge for him. 
NURSE Breakfasting with the patients this morning, Mr. Treves? 
TREVES It's for a patient. 
Treves exits and the nurses admiringly watch him go. 
FIRST FLOOR LANDING AND HALLWAY 
Treves climbs the stairs onto the landing. Down the hall, Mr. Carr Gomm is walking toward his office. Treves tries not to be seen, but to no avail. 
CARR Mr. Treves, come over here a moment, won't you? 
Treves hesitates, trying to hide the bowl, but gives up and goes down the hall to meet Carr Gomm. 
CARR Good morning, Treves. 
TREVES Good morning, sir. 
CARR (seeing the bowl) You've acquired a taste for this? 
TREVES It's quite nutritious, sir. 
CARR Don't be mad. This muck can kill you. 
Carr Gomm calls a Nurse from a nearby ward over. It is Nora. He takes the bowl from Treves and hands it to her. 
CARR Take this up, to to the man in the isolation ward when you have a moment, won't you? 
NORA (apprehensively) Yes, sir. 
TREVES Don't be frightened. He won't hurt you. 
CARR Indeed! 
He gestures toward his office door. As he and Treves enter the office, Nora looks apprehensively up the isolation ward stairs. 
MR. CARR GOMM'S OFFICE 
It is a small, elegantly furnished room with a large window. The two men sit, Carr Gomm behind his desk and Treves in a leather chair. 
CARR A hospital is no place for secrecy, Mr. Treves. Doctors spiriting hooded figures about are liable to cause comment. Why wasn't this patient properly admitted, and why is he in isolation? Is he contagious? 
TREVES No sir, he's got bronchitis and he's been badly beaten. 
MOTHERSHEAD I've heard. 
TREVES Yes... Well, I want you to clear up a little mess, a breakfast tray was spilt. And bring up another breakfast. When you've done that, you and I shall give the man a bath. But, Mothershead, I'm counting on your many years of experience to get you through this, Above all, do not scream, do not cry out, or in any way show this man that you are frightened of him... 
MOTHERSHEAD Sir, you don't have to worry about me. I'm not the sort to cry out. Shall we go in? 
TREVES Yes... Yes, let's go in. 
Treves opens the door. 
ISOLATION WARD 
Mothershead goes right to the mess. 
TREVES (to the E.M., hereafter Merrick) I would like you to meet Mrs. Mothershead - Mrs. Mothershead, Mr. John Merrick. 
Merrick looks up to Mothershead, then averts his eyes. He looks back at her and sees she has no difficulty being in his presence. 
MOTHERSHEAD How do you do? 
ISOLATION WARD LANDING 
At the door of Merrick's attic room stand two buckets of very dirty water. We hear footsteps coming up stairs and see a young porter carrying two buckets of clean, steaming water. He puts them down, knocks on the door, and takes the dirty water downstairs. The door opens, Mrs. Mothershead picks up the steaming buckets and takes them inside, shutting the door. 
ISOLATION WARD 
Merrick's seated in a tin bathtub trying to hide his nakedness. Mrs. Mothershead pours the water in. She scrubs his back with obvious distaste, but does her job. Months of filth and accumulated excrescence are turning the bath water a murky black. As Mothershead scrubs, Merrick slowly leans forward in the bath, closing his eyes, apparently oblivious to his surroundings. 
Treves sits beside him. 
TREVES The disease is shocking. 
Merrick's eyes flicker. 
TREVES I wonder how far it can go before it... 
Merrick flinches and pulls away. 
MOTHERSHEAD Sit still. Don't wiggle about like a pup. I won't stand for any foolishness. 
Treves leans forward and looks at Merrick. Merrick grows still, his eyes closed, apparently in a reverie. 
TREVES (V.O.) It's pretty certain that if he had the disease as a child, he was abandoned. But in that case, he'd have to have had care. The very fact that he's alive bears that out... (cut to Treves) But, where? 
Merrick is listening. 
MOTHERSHEAD The workhouse. 
TREVES Yes! The workhouse! 
At this word, Merrick begins to babble wildly. Obviously alarmed, he thrashes about in the tub, spilling water onto the floor. Treves, alarmed now himself, attempts to calm Merrick, who, still babbling, tries to rise from the tub. 
Mothershead clamps a hand on Merrick's left arm. At her touch, he is instantly subdued, at least physically. He sinks back into the tub and begins to weep. Treves and Mothershead are astounded by the tears rolling down Merrick's cheeks. They stand motionless looking down at the agonized, naked elephant man. 
TREVES (softly) The workhouse. 
FOLLOWING BUCKETS OF DIRTY WATER DOWN A HALLWAY BACK ENTRANCE - ALLEY 
The young PORTER is exiting with great difficulty through a large iron door carrying the two buckets. He sets one of the buckets down, takes the other and splashes it out into the alley. Some thick sludge dribbles from the empty bucket. Unseen by him, the NIGHT PORTER is standing just to the side and he now comes forward. The young Porter seems nervous in his presence. 
The Night Porter looks at his spattered shoes, then up to the Young Porter. 
NIGHT PORTER What's all this, then? 
YOUNG PORTER Mr. Treves is scrubbing his Elephant Man. 
NIGHT PORTER Elephant Man? 
YOUNG PORTER Yeah... I hear it's a real horror. Even made Mothershead scream. 
NIGHT PORTER Friend of the night, eh? The Elephant Man. I think I'll have me a look at that. 
Suddenly the Night Porter kicks the other bucket of filthy water violently, sending it splashing all over the young Porter. 
NIGHT PORTER Now, you need the scrubbing, ducks! 
He lets his cigarette drop to the ground, then stamps and grinds it with his brass-heeled boot, all the while smiling. Then he turns on his heel and leaves. 
CUT TO: 
Dark clouds rolling through an evening sky. 
ATTIC WARD 
Through the high barred window, we see the dark sky. The E.M. is on his bed in his sleeping posture. A dim gaslight burns in the room. 
CLOSE-UP of his head on the points of his knees. His breathing is more regular now. 
A GENERAL WARD 
Lights are being turned off. 
ANOTHER WARD 
Lights go off. 
TREVES What are you doing down there? Come up John, come up on the bed. The cold floor is bad for you. I won't hurt you, come on now... 
He helps Merrick up onto the bed and goes back to the table for the bowl. 
TREVES You must eat. We must keep your strength... 
He has turned back to the bed, but Merrick has slipped to the floor again, still trying to hide himself in the corner. 
TREVES ...What on earth is the matter with you? 
He puts the bowl down again and goes back to Merrick, who seems very upset at leaving his hiding place. 
TREVES Now please, John, you must do as I say. Come up from there. 
He starts to help Merrick up, but Merrick just presses himself farther back in the corner, still babbling. There are two raps at the door. Treves goes to it and lets Mothershead in. 
MOTHERSHEAD Good morning, Mr. Treves. It'll be his bath-time soon. Has he eaten? 
TREVES Not quite yet, Mrs. Mothershead. There seems to be some difficulty this morning. 
They both look at the bed. Merrick has almost disappeared under it. 
MOTHERSHEAD Won't come out, eh? 
TREVES No, he's very upset about something. 
MOTHERSHEAD Just being obstinate, sir. I'll handle it. 
She goes to Merrick and takes hold of his left wrist. 
MOTHERSHEAD Alright, my son, none of this fuss. Come up from there, this instant. 
She starts to force him up from the floor. Merrick is moaning now, still trying to get away. 
TREVES No! Don't pull at him like that. We don't want to frighten him more than he already is. 
By this time Mothershead has almost got him back on the bed. 
MOTHERSHEAD Honestly, sir, you must be very firm with this sort. Otherwise they'd lay about on the floor gibbering all day long. All he understands is a good smack. 
They help Merrick settle back on the pillow. Merrick is still making desperate, unintelligible sounds. 
TREVES He's had his share of "smacks", Mothershead. I expect that's what drives him under the bed. We must use patience and understanding with this man. 
MOTHERSHEAD Perhaps you've got the time for that, Mr. Treves, I certainly don't. I've got an entire hospital to look after, and you have your real patients. Don't waste your time with him sir, it's like talking to a wall. I don't mean to be harsh, but truthfully what can you do for him? I'll be back later for his bath. And Mr. Carr Gomm would like to see you when you have a moment. Good day sir. 
She exits. Treves shuts the door behind her and turns back to the bed. 
TREVES (to himself) What good am I to you...? 
He goes to the bed and sits down in front of Merrick, angered by his own seeming uselessness in the situation. 
TREVES ...What is my purpose? ...It's so important that I understand you. I want to help you, I want to be your doctor... (directly to Merrick) but I can't help you unless you help me, unless I know what you are feeling. I believe there's something back there, there's something you want to say, but I've got to understand you. Do you understand me? 
Merrick hesitates, then starts babbling again. 
TREVES No! You are going to talk to me! We are going to show them! We're going to show them that you're not a wall. We are going to talk! Do you understand? Nod your head if you understand me! 
Slowly Merrick nods yes. 
TREVES You do understand me! You understand. Now you're going to say it. I've got to hear how you say things. Now, very slowly, say "yes." 
Treves carefully mouths the word. 
TREVES "Yes." 
Merrick is still hesitant, from years of fear, but his eyes betray a growing excitement. Slowly, he tries to talk, his voice a tremulous whisper. 
MERRICK Yyyy... Yyye... yyyess. 
TREVES (grabbing Merrick's arm) Yes John! 
Throughout their dialogue, Merrick is still very garbled, but he no longer babbles. He makes a great effort to speak slowly, to form words the way Treves forms them, to be understood. 
MERRICK ...Yyes 
TREVES Yyyess. 
MERRICK Yyess. 
TREVES That's much better. I could understand that "yes". 
MERRICK (pleased) Yes! 
TREVES Very good! Oh yes! Now listen. I'm going to say some things to you and I want you to repeat them... um... I want you to say them back to me. Do you understand? I'm going to say some things to you and I want you to say them back to me. Do you understand? 
MERRICK Yes. 
TREVES Excellent! Now, say... "Hello" 
MERRICK Hello... 
TREVES My name is... 
MERRICK My... name is... 
HALLWAY - STAIRCASE - THE LONDON 
We see Treves leave Carr Gomm's office and walk toward us to the stairwell. 
As Treves begins down the stairs, he sees Bytes on the next landing coming up. 
Bytes spots him and goes toward him. 
BYTES I want my man back. 
TREVES Just a moment, how did you get in here? 
BYTES Never mind that, I want my man! 
TREVES He's still very sick. Please come downstairs with me. I'll explain the situation. 
BYTES (shouting) DON'T... Don't muck me about. You've had plenty of time to fix him up, and he's leaving with me, NOW. Do you understand me? Now, Mr. Treves. We had a bargain! 
TREVES You misunderstood. This man suffered a severe fall, if you take my meaning. He's my patient now and I must do what... 
BYTES Pull the other one, why don't you! We made a deal! 
TREVES I know what you've done to him and he's never going back to that. 
BYTES He's a freak! That's how they live. We're partners, him and I, business partners. You're willfully deprivin' me of my livlihood! 
TREVES All you do is profit from another man's misery! 
BYTES You think you're better 'n me? YOU wanted the freak to show all your doctor chums and make a name for yourself, you guv. So I gave him to you. On trust, in the name of science! And now I want him back. 
TREVES You don't own this man! 
BYTES I want him back! 
TREVES So you can beat him? So you can starve him? A dog in the street would fare better with you! 
BYTES I've got my rights, damn you, and I'm going to the authorities! 
CARR (V.O.) Well, go to the authorities... 
Now we see Carr Gomm standing above them, at the top of the stairs. 
CARR By all means do so. In fact, I'll fetch them myself. I'm quite sure they'd be very interested in your story, as well as ours. 
Livid, Bytes looks from Carr Gomm to Treves, at a loss for words. 
TREVES Now I think we really do understand one another. 
BYTES (venomously) Right... Right. 
He backs slowly down to the landing eyeing Treves and Carr Gomm. At the landing he casually turns and disappears down more stairs. Treves turns and gazes at Carr Gomm. 
CARR Singularly unpleasant chap... uh... I don't suppose there would be any harm in my meeting your... patient, Mr. Treves. 
TREVES (gratefully) Thank you very much Sir. Shall we say in a few days then? 
CARR Shall we say two o'clock tomorrow afternoon? 
TREVES (slightly taken aback) Wh... whatever is most convenient for you, sir. 
CARR Two o'clock then... you know Treves... It seems this acquaintance of yours has become rather more than just an acquaintance. 
TREVES ...Yes, Sir. 
They part company. We follow Treves down the stairs. 
TREVES (muttering) Two o'clock? 
Then we follow Carr Gomm to his office door. He stops short. 
CARR (mumbling out loud) Elephant Man? I don't want to meet an Elephant Man. 
HALLWAYS - THE LONDON (NIGHT) 
Again, the hospital is closing down for the night. Lights go off in each hallway. The staff is vacating the hospital. As the last light goes off, we hear the great iron door slam shut. 
TREVES' HOUSE - BEDROOM (NIGHT) 
Anne is at her dressing table, brushing out her hair. She is in a very flattering dressing gown, ready to turn in. We see her reflected in the mirror as well as Treves who is in his robe in the background seated at his side of their bed, deep in thought. Anne looks at Treves and smiles affectionately. 
ANNE (coyly) Freddie? 
Getting no response she renews her efforts. 
ANNE Freddie?... Freddie, don't look so discouraged. 
TREVES I shouldn't be. We made great progress today. I taught him to repeat a few basic phrases. He did rather well, too, but I had to lead him every step of the way. Though frankly, at times I was unsure of who was leading whom. 
ANNE What do you mean? 
TREVES Well, I wasn't sure whether he was parroting me because that's all he was capable of, or whether he sensed that that's all I wanted to hear, and he was trying to please me. 
ANNE But I thought you said that he was rather... simple? 
TREVES He is. I mean, I've always thought he was. I think he must be. Is he simple? Or is that just something I've wished upon him to make things simpler for myself? 
The sound is very close now, and Merrick's eyes are visibly agitated. 
Finally, the door bursts open and the Night Porter is standing there. He stares malevolently at Merrick for a long moment and then walks to him menacingly. 
NIGHT PORTER I hear you have some trouble sleepin'... 
He grabs Merrick fiercely by the hair and jerks his head back. Merrick immediately starts to wheeze and gasp. 
NIGHT PORTER Head's too heavy, eh? 
He pulls Merrick all the way down onto the bed, so that he is prone, struggling for breath. 
NIGHT PORTER And I heard a nasty rumor about you; I heard you can talk but you can't, can you... can you... can you?... 
MERRICK (struggling) Noooo! 
The Night Porter is as first surprised, and then pleased at the desperate sound. 
NIGHT PORTER No... No you can't! One word about me out of that stinking cakehole... Just ONE word, and you'll have no trouble at sleepin'... no trouble at all. You understand me? Do you!! 
MERRICK (croaking) Yyyesss. 
Satisfied, the Night Porter rights Merrick who is just able to catch his breath. The Night Porter smiles and pats Merrick on the shoulder. 
NIGHT PORTER There now, that's better, i'n' it? 
HALLWAY 
Treves and Carr Gomm are on their way to the committee meeting, confident of their position. Treves is holding a folder, and Carr Gomm is looking at the photographs of Merrick. 
CARR As far as I can see, the only obstacle might be Broadneck. He has enormous influence over the others, very old school, not an easy man to impress. In any case, if worse does come to worse, we still have the British and Royal Homes to fall back on, don't we. 
Treves is silent. They stop. 
CARR Don't we? 
TREVES No, we don't. Their committees have informed me that they're unwilling to take Mr. Merrick, even if they were supplied with funds. They don't want him. 
CARR Well, it's up to us then, isn't it? 
They continue walking. 
CARR Don't worry Treves, we'll make them see it our way. 
He looks at the pictures. 
CARR They've eyes, haven't they? 
They go through a door marked "Committee Room". 
COMMITTEE ROOM - THE LONDON HOSPITAL 
We see a pair of hands. One of the photographs of Merrick is passed to them. 
They hold it for a moment, then lay it down flat on the table. One of the hands covers the photograph with a piece of paper. 
TREVES (V.O.) ...Due to the progressive nature of the disease, I feel sure that the patient does not have much longer to live. 
We pan up from the hands to see BROADNECK, his face pinched with disgust. He sniffs, and gazes coolly at Treves. 
TREVES Forgive the redundancy, gentlemen, but there is no other place for him. Both the Royal Hospital and the British Home have turned him down even if sufficient funds for his care were provided. The workhouse is certainly out of the question. The patient has an overwhelming fear of returning to the horrors of his past. His appearance is so disturbing that all shrink from him. He cannot, in justice to others, be put in the general ward of the workhouse. The police rightly prevent his being exhibited, and he is mobbed in the streets wherever he goes. What is to be done with him? 
BROADNECK I, for one, am sick and tired of this competitive freak-hunting by these overly ambitious young doctors, trying to make names for themselves. To parade then about in front of the pathological society is one thing, but to waste this committee's valuable time with requests for shelter for these abominations of nature is quite another. 
TREVES Gentlemen, John Merrick is not an animal, he is a man, fully aware of his condition. An intelligent, sensitive, literate man, with an intimate knowledge of the Bible. His horrible infirmities do not reduce him to anything less than what he is, a man; and it would be criminal if we of the London Hospital, his final refuge, the last place on earth where this man can find peace, were to cast him out. 
Carr Gomm, from his chair on the committee, pounds his gavel. 
CARR Gentlemen, may I make a suggestion. There are two small rooms off Bedstead Square that are no longer in use and would be admirably suited to Mr. Merrick's needs. I also propose to write a letter to The Times, appealing to their readers for assistance. Knowing the generosity of the British public, I feel we would have little trouble in raising the funds for his maintenance. Indeed, this hospital's rules do preclude the admission of incurables, but if ever there was an exception to the rule, it is this patient. So therefore, I propose, if Mr. Treves is finished, that we put it to a vote. All those in favor of keeping Mr. Merrick here? 
Carr Gomm and another committee member raise their hands. Broadneck is displeased. 
BROADNECK One moment, (showing the picture of Merrick) as far as I'm concerned this creature has no business being in our hospital. I think Mr. Carr Gomm's letter would be an excellent idea, (to Carr Gomm) and when you appeal for funds, I think you should appeal for a more appropriate place for him as well. I agree the British public is generous, and I'm sure that somewhere the creature will find a happy and permanent home, but not here. 
One of the committee members says "I quite agree". Carr Gomm scowls a bit. 
CARR I see. All, then, that move we keep Mr. Merrick here? 
Carr Gomm raises his hand. None of the others do. Treves and Carr Gomm exchange hopeless glances. Carr Gomm looks at the man who had originally raised his hand. He looks away, ashamed. 
CARR All those opposed? 
Broadneck and the rest raise their hands. 
CARR I see. 
BROADNECK (triumphantly) Well then. In the meantime, of course, he needn't be turned out. He may stay in the rooms off Bedstead Square until such time as more suitable arrangements can be made, thus freeing the Isolation Ward for more deserving patients. Well then, Mr. Chairman, if there is nothing further to discuss, I move that we adjourn this meeting and all go bout our normal business. 
Carr Gomm cannot conceal his contempt. 
CARR I second the motion gentlemen. This meeting is adjourned. 
The others cough their agreement and hurriedly leave the room. Treves walks over to the committee table and takes the paper off the photograph. He stares sadly at Merrick's picture. 
CARR (V.O.) Somehow I don't think they quite understand. 
TREVES Very well, thank you. I have something for you, John. I'm sure you'll enjoy it, it's very popular. 
He holds the book out to him. It's an "Alice In Wonderland". 
MERRICK (surprised) Thank you... so much... oh it's beautiful! 
He lovingly feels the leather binding and looks at Treves with speechless gratitude. 
Merrick carefully opens the book to a colored frontpiece, the picture of Alice grown too large for a hallway, looking imploringly at the dwarfed White Rabbit. The caption reads "...curiouser and curiouser". He leafs through the pages looking at the other illustrations as Treves, delighted with the gift's effect, looks on. 
TREVES I came to tell you that I'll be here early tomorrow morning. We're moving you to your permanent home. I'm sure you'll be very happy there, John. So get a good night's rest, there'll be new people to meet tomorrow. Good night. 
Treves smiles broadly and exits. 
MERRICK (weakly) Good night. 
Treves' words have disturbed Merrick. He sinks into the pillows, the book before him. We see the picture of the Mock Turtle perched upon his rock, great tears rolling down his cow-like face, as Alice and the Gryphon look on with intense sympathy. Merrick looks up at his disguise hanging on the wall. 
THE PEACOCK PUB - WHITECHAPEL 
The Night Porter enters and saunters over to the noisy crowd. As they welcome him, he slaps down The Times on the bar counter for all to see. 
NIGHT PORTER Here... listen to this. This is a letter to THE London Times from the guvnor of the hospital. (starts to read) There is now in a little room off one of our attic wards a man named John Merrick, so dreadful a sight that he is unable even to come out by daylight to the garden. He has been called The Elephant Man on account of his terrible deformity... 
The Night Porter has the undivided attention of the people in the pub. 
NIGHT PORTER ...His appearance is so terrible that woman and nervous persons fly in terror at the sight of him. (pauses) ...and guess who can get you tickets to see him? Your own Sunny Jim! 
YOUNG MAN IN CROWD Let's go see him, then! 
NIGHT PORTER Keep your shirts on. (shaking his finger at them) ...When the time is right. Right now he's in the attic but tomorrow they're movin' him into Bedstead Square, right into my lap... then... for the right price you'll see something you'll never see again in your life. 
He lifts his glass to his lips. We move back to see Bytes' boys who, having heard the Night Porter's words, slips unnoticed from the pub. 
MERRICK (wheezing) Workhouse! 
HALLWAY - MOVING DAY 
Merrick, in his disguise, and Treves, one arm around him, are walking together. Merrick seems very uneasy. 
A Nurse, on duty early or late getting off, passes them. She stares at the hooded figure. They continue on in silence. 
BEDSTEAD SQUARE ROOM 
The room is now spotless. It is furnished with a bed and the required pillows, a small table and chair by the window, now curtained. Adjoining this room is a smaller one which contains a bathtub. 
Merrick enters and looks around, confused. Treves stands in the doorway. 
Merrick turns to him. 
TREVES This is your new home, John. 
Merrick pulls off his hood. His eyes are bewildered. 
MERRICK This... is my new home? 
TREVES Yes. 
MERRICK (incredulous) The hospital? 
TREVES Of course! What did you think? 
Merrick's eyes glisten with held back tears. He lowers them. 
MERRICK (almost sobbing) How long will I stay here? 
TREVES I promise you. You will never see the inside of that horrible place again. You will never, ever go back to the workhouse... or that man. It's a splendid room, don't you think? 
Merrick inspects his new home. He seems pleased-by the bathtub, by the table, by the window to the outside world. 
Merrick pulls the curtain aside and opens the window. He looks out and then up with a small intake of breath. Before him, beyond the hospital fence, the spire of St. Phillips Cathedral stands resplendently in the morning light. 
MERRICK When I'm next moved may I go to a lighthouse?... or to a blind-asylum? 
HALLWAY 
We see Carr Gomm walking to his office. He is met at the door by an anxious Treves. 
TREVES Has the response picked up? 
CARR Frankly, Treves, it's not what I'd expected. A few small cheques. Well- wishers. Don't worry, these things undoubtedly take time. 
TREVES But he's so afraid he's going to be carted off. I've promised him that won't happen. 
CARR Well... I'll let you know if there's something in the afternoon post. 
TREVES Please do. 
Carr Gomm goes back into his office and Treves walks off. 
MERRICK'S ROOM (A WHILE LATER) 
There is no one in the room. The bathroom door opens and Nora and another nurse enter, carrying buckets which they set down by the hall door. They straighten up and lean back against it. 
Mrs. Mothershead enters from the bathroom, speaking over her shoulder to Merrick. 
KITCHEN 
Anne is composing herself by busily fixing the tea and cakes. She stops for a moment, takes a breath, and then resumes her activity. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
Treves and Merrick coming down the stairs. Merrick is calm now. They go into the sitting room, where Anne is just setting the tea tray out. Treves ushers Merrick to a highbacked sofa and sits him down. Merrick is very shy of Anne. 
Treves and Anne sit on the other side of the table. 
ANNE Mr. Merrick, sugar? 
MERRICK Yes please, two. 
ANNE One or two? 
MERRICK Two, please. 
Anne serves the tea. 
TREVES John loves the house. 
ANNE Do you? 
MERRICK Oh yes. You have so many nice things, and so much room. 
ANNE Oh? 
TREVES Yes, we do have a lot of room. But you should see the place on weekends, when I see patients here. Sometimes there are so many, we have to set them down wherever we can. In fact, Mrs. Treves sometimes says that the only room she can call her own is the bedroom. 
Treves and Anne laugh good-naturedly. Merrick's face, as always, is quite blank. 
MERRICK (earnestly) Well, it's a lovely bedroom. What do you call that thing above the bed? 
TREVES That's a canopy, John. 
MERRICK Ohhh... 
TREVES How is your tea, John? 
MERRICK It's very good. I'm enjoying my visit with you very much. It's so very kind of you to have me as a guest in your home. I'm sorry I made a spectacle of myself. 
TREVES Not at all, John. 
MERRICK I love the way you've arranged your pictures on the mantlepiece. Is that the way it's done in most houses? 
TREVES Oh yes. 
MERRICK Who are they of? 
TREVES Oh, our relatives... the children. 
MERRICK The children! May I see? 
TREVES Of course. 
Treves goes to the fireplace and takes down a few pictures. He hands a picture of the girls to Merrick. 
MERRICK (as if looking at an icon) The Children. Where are your children 
TREVES Oh, they're gone for the day... with friends. 
MERRICK (the word gives him pleasure) Friends. Ah yes, friends! How nice. 
ANNE And here is one of Frederick's mother. 
MERRICK How lovely. 
TREVES Yes. 
ANNE And here are my mother and father. 
MERRICK They have noble faces. 
ANNE (a cord is struck) I've always thought that myself. 
MERRICK Oh, yes. 
Merrick sets the picture down carefully. 
MERRICK (ever so timidly) Would you... would you like to see my mother? 
TREVES (startled) Your mother? 
MERRICK Here. 
He reaches into his cloak and brings out the small portrait of the beautiful woman. Treves is absolutely amazed. Merrick gently hands the picture to Anne. 
ANNE Oh... why Mr. Merrick she's beautiful. 
MERRICK She has the face of an angel... She was an angel. She was so kind... so kind to me. It's not her fault, for in the fourth month of her maternal condition she was knocked down by an elephant. I'm sure I must have been a great disappointment to her. 
ANNE (visibly touched) Oh no, Mr. Merrick. No. No son as loving as you are could ever be a disappointment. 
MERRICK If only I could find her. If only she could see me now, here, with such lovely kind friends. You, Mrs. Treves, and you, Mr. Treves. Then maybe she would love me as I am. I've tried to hard to be good. 
MERRICK Good morning. 
TREVES John, there's someone here who would like to meet you. Would that be alright? 
Merrick is a trifle apprehensive, but he agrees. Treves ushers MRS. KENDAL through the door. At the sight of her, Merrick's eyes go wide. 
TREVES John, I'd like you to meet one of the brightest lights of the British stage, Mrs. Kendal. Mrs. Kendal, John Merrick. 
KENDAL Good day, Mr. Merrick. 
MERRICK Good day...! 
KENDAL I've brought you some things. I hope you'll like, Mr. Merrick. I hope you don't think it too forward. 
MERRICK Oh, no. 
KENDAL I knew you'd understand. Here. 
She-hands Merrick a nicely framed picture of herself. Merrick is speechless, overjoyed by the gift. 
KENDAL I want you to know that I don't go about giving my pictures to just anyone. 
MERRICK Oh, no. I would never think it! It's so beautiful. You are so... I'll give it a place of honor, here, next to my mother. 
He places it, with great care, next to his mother's portrait. 
KENDAL She's very pretty, your mother. 
MERRICK Yes. 
Treves smiles at them. 
Merrick is a trifle nervous but Mrs. Kendal smiles at him and he relaxes a little. 
MERRICK Mr. Treves says that you are in the theatre. Do you live there? 
KENDAL Oh no, Mr. Merrick. I just work there. 
MERRICK Well, even to work there would be wonderful. Is it beautiful? 
KENDAL You've never been? 
MERRICK Alas, no. 
KENDAL Well you must go. It is one of the most beautiful places on earth. Of course, I'm rather partial. 
MERRICK Tell me about it, please! 
KENDAL It's very difficult to put into a nutshell, but I should say the theater is the shrine of the imagination, where one may suspend disbelief and travel anywhere in the world, to any time you desire. You may look over the shoulders of kings, unobserved, battle with ruthless tyrants, and marry the beautiful princess, all in the space of a few hours. Onstage you may be whoever you wish to be, do anything you please, and always, always live happily ever after. The theatre is all the brightest and best things of the world, Mr. Merrick. It is lights and music, gaiety and joy. It's... well, it's romance. 
MERRICK (the magic word) Romance! 
KENDAL That's one thing the theatre has in great store. which reminds me. I have something else for you... 
She produces a beautiful leather-bound volume of Shakespeare's works. Merrick takes it with reverence and begins to leaf through it. 
KENDAL Have you read it? 
MERRICK No, but I certainly shall. 
Merrick finds a place and begins to read. 
MERRICK Romeo and Juliet. I know of this... "If I profane with my unworthiest hand, This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this: My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand, To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss." 
Merrick, embarrassed by these last words, starts to close the book. 
Mrs. Kendal knows Juliet's lines by heart. She looks at Merrick for a moment, then replies tenderly. 
KENDAL Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much, Which mannerly devotion shows in this; For saints have hands that pilgrims hands do touch, And palm to palm is holy palmer's kiss. 
Merrick pauses, looking at Kendal, then continues. 
MERRICK Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too? 
KENDAL Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer. 
MERRICK O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do. They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair. 
They both look at each other for a long, silent moment. Treves is touched and amazed. 
KENDAL Why, Mr. Merrick, you're not an Elephant Man at all... 
MERRICK Oh no? 
KENDAL Oh no... no... you're a Romeo. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
THE PEACOCK - WHITECHAPEL 
People are happily drinking and singing and laughing. Bytes and the boy are keeping a watchful eye on the Night Porter, who is making a deal with a couple of men at a table. They hand over a few coins and follow the Night Porter out of the pub. Bytes finishes his beer and thumps the glass down on the bar. He wipes his mouth with his sleeve and he and the boy casually follow the other three men out. 
Bytes and the boy stand by the pub door, watching the men cross the street and go to the back gate of the hospital which the Night Porter unlocks, and leaves unlocked, but closed, behind them. They walk into Bedstead Square, laughing quietly. 
Bytes crosses the street and goes to the gate. He walks along the iron fence and watches the Night Porter and his "customers". He stops and waits to see where they go. 
MOTHERSHEAD If you ask me, sir, he's just being stared at all over again. 
MERRICK'S ROOM 
We pan across Merrick's bookcase, now quite full, and we see a few titles: "Moll Flanders", "Emma', "Jane Eyre", "Pamela", and then to Merrick. He and Treves are reading poetry together. 
MERRICK When will the stream be aweary of flowing under my eye? When will the wind be aweary of blowing over the sky? When will the clouds be aweary of fleeting? When will the heart be aweary of beating, and nature die? 
TREVES Never, oh! Never, nothing will die. the stream flows the wind blows the heart beats Nothing will die. 
Merrick closes his book and sits silently for a moment. 
MERRICK Mr. Treves, there is something I've been meaning to ask you for some time... 
TREVES Yes, John? 
MERRICK ...Can you cure me? 
Treves is taken aback. He considers, then says tentatively. 
TREVES No John, I can't. I can care for you, but I can't cure you. 
MERRICK I thought as much. 
Merrick rises. Treves ponders over what Merrick has just said. He looks at Merrick and something very odd happens. Merrick is looking levelly at him. 
For the first and only time, we see expression on his face. It is a calm, knowing look, almost a benign smile. At that very moment there is a bright flash of light behind Merrick's head, seemingly from the window. Treves blinks, unable to comprehend what has just happened. When he looks again, the moment has passed. Merrick, his back to Treves, moves to the bookcase to replace the volume. 
TREVES John...? 
There's a knock at the door. 
MERRICK Come in. 
Nora enters with a brown paper parcel tied with string. Merrick says nothing. 
TREVES Are you looking for me, Sister? 
NORA No sir, Mr. Merrick. (to Merrick) I have something for you. 
She puts the parcel on the table and opens it. We see several squares of new cardboard, a cutting knife, a pastepot, and a few brushes and some paint. 
NORA I thought these things would be helpful with your cathedral. 
Merrick examines the materials with reverence, and thanks her profusely. 
Treves is moved and a little disconcerted. Merrick lays the things aside carefully and begins to pull the crude spires from the discarded box. Nora smiles at the busy Merrick and exits. 
TREVES The cathedral is coming along nicely. 
MERRICK (bending over the model) Yes, soon I will start the main spire, but I must finish these columns first, How kind of her! 
Treves notices to his dismay that the growths on Merrick's head are larger. 
He finds it very difficult to disguise his concern. 
TREVES How blind of me. Is there anything else, John, anything at all that I could get for you? 
MERRICK Oh no! There is nothing! I have everything, you have given me everything I could possibly want. I am happy every hour of the day. I only wish there was something I could give to you. 
TREVES Please John, it would give me so much pleasure to give you something. Something just for yourself. Isn't there something you would like to have? 
Merrick is silent. He goes over to his cloak, reaches into it and pulls out a folded up advertisement. He hands it to Treves, who examines it closely. It is an advertisement for an-elegant gentleman's dressing bag, boasting ivory brushes, silver fittings and Moroccan silk lining. 
TREVES You want a dressing bag, John? 
MERRICK You don't think it's too gaudy, do you? 
HALLWAY 
Mrs. Mothershead finds Treves walking slowly down the hall, looking at the ad. 
MOTHERSHEAD Mr. Treves, some more books arrived for Mr. Merrick. 
TREVES Thank you, Mothershead. Have a porter put them in my office. 
MOTHERSHEAD Yes sir. (seeing the ad) What's that? 
TREVES A dressing bag. 
MOTHERSHEAD Very smart indeed. 
TREVES Yes. John wants it. 
MOTHERSHEAD A dressing bag? 
TREVES You don't think it's too gaudy, do you. 
MOTHERSHEAD Well... 
TREVES John thinks it's very dashing. Something no gentleman should be without. I'm inclined to agree. 
He walks off. 
MOTHERSHEAD A dressing bag? 
Treves sits and Carr Gomm takes his place at the head of the table and raps his gavel. 
CARR Gentlemen, I know we begin every meeting by reading the minutes, but in the interest of speed I think we should conclude a matter discussed previously, to wit, that of Mr. John Merrick, the Elephant Man... 
Broadneck explodes to his feet. Carr Gomm smiles at Treves, who looks quite grim. 
CARR Mr. Broadneck? 
BROADNECK Mr. Chairman! I was under the distinct impression that we had concluded discussion of this disagreeable matter. Had we not ascertained that an Elephant Man is not acceptable as a patient? Have we not, very generously, allowed the creature to use two of our rooms until such time as he could be properly disposed of? Have we not... 
CUT TO MERRICK'S ROOM 
Merrick is working on his cathedral, painting details with a very fine brush. 
As he lifts the brush from the paint jar, a drop falls on the table. Merrick carefully lays down the brush and wipes up the spilled paint with a cloth. 
MERRICK I must be more careful! 
CUT TO COMMITTEE ROOM 
BROADNECK Which brings to mind my next point. The rules, gentlemen, the rules. In a society such as ours, it is of paramount importance that we not stray from the established order. Has that order not already been fearfully strained by allowing this... this... sideshow exhibit to take up residence, however temporary, in two very useful rooms, the purpose of which would be far better served in accommodating treatable patients, patients to whom this hospital was originally dedicated? I believe we have a duty... 
Carr Gomm still smiles. Treves is about to spring to Merrick's defense, but Carr Gomm catches his eyes and motions for him to remain silent. Treves is perplexed. Carr Gomm checks his pocket watch. 
CUT TO MERRICK'S ROOM 
Merrick as before, busily working away. We see a ladybug crawling slowly across the roof of the cathedral. Merrick notices it and watches for a moment, then reaches up and lays a finger alongside the bug. The bug crawls onto his finger and Merrick holds it closer to him. 
MERRICK ...Ladybug, ladybug, fly away home... it's cloudy out, I know, but remember; behind the clouds there is always the sun. 
CUT TO WHITECHAPEL ROAD 
We see a Royal carriage glide to a stop in front of the hospital. A footman jumps down and opens the door. A very elegantly dressed woman begins to emerge. 
CUT TO COMMITTEE ROOM 
Broadneck is still talking. 
BROADNECK ...In light of these facts, our course is clear. The question is not whether to accept this creature as a patient, the question is when will those rooms be vacated for use by better qualified, more deserving cases? I move that this Elephant Man be removed from the premises immediately. We have a sacred duty to cure the sick, not care for circus animals. That is my last word on the subject. Mr. Chairman, shall we vote? 
Broadneck turns to Carr Gomm. Carr Gomm checks his watch and clears his throat. 
CARR GOMM I take it, Mr. Broadneck, that your mind is fixed on this matter? 
Broadneck blusters with rage. 
BROADNECK Mr. Chairman! Don't you have ears? I am unalterably opposed to any... 
Carr Gomm smiles and again checks his watch. Treves is very nervous. 
CUT TO HALLWAY 
We see two nurses, their backs to us, walking down the hall. They start to go in a doorway when they stop suddenly, very startled, and curtsey deeply. 
Mothershead comes into the hall, also curtseying madly. She is followed by the elegantly dressed woman, who is followed in turn by two footmen. They walk regally down the hall. 
CUT TO COMMITTEE ROOM 
BROADNECK ...No, my mind is made up on this, and I am resolved to stand firm. You shall not sway me. May we now vote, Mr. Chairman, at long last? 
Carr Gomm checks his watch. The door to the room begins to open. He smiles. 
CARR Yes, I believe that time has come. 
The two footmen enter the room. 
1ST FOOTMAN Gentlemen, Her Royal Highness Alexandra, Princess of Wales. 
The elegantly dressed woman enters. Everyone rises. 
ALIX Good morning, gentlemen. I hope I am not interrupting? 
CARR Indeed not, your Highness. Your presence is always greatly appreciated. We were just about to put the matter of Mr. Merrick to a vote. (he turns to the other committee members) The Princess is very interested in Mr. Merrick's fate. 
ALIX Indeed I am sir, as is the Queen. I have a brief communication from her Highness which she has requested I read to you: To the Governing Committee, London Hospital. I would very much like to commend you for the charitable face you have shown Mr. John Merrick, the Elephant Man. It is laudable that you have provided one of England's most unfortunate sons with a safe and tranquil harbour, a home. For this immeasurable kindness, as well as the many other acts of mercy on behalf of the poor, of which Mr. Carr Gomm has kept me informed, I gratefully thank you. Signed Victoria, Empress of India, Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. (looking straight at Broadneck) I am sure you gentlemen may be counted on to do the Christian thing. 
Alix seats herself. 
CARR Thank you very much, your Highness, you may be sure we shall. 
Broadneck seems very unnerved. 
CARR Well then, I move that Mr. John Merrick be admitted to the London Hospital on a permanent basis, on condition that the Hospital shall receive a yearly payment equal to the cost of occupying one bed, and that the funds for his care shall be clearly separate from hospital funds. All those in favor. 
Carr Gomm raises his hand. The other members, puzzled, look at Broadneck. 
Quite red in the face, Broadneck looks at Carr Gomm, then to Treves, then to the Princess. He seems to almost deflate, then slowly raises his hand. The other members, now thoroughly confused, raise their hands as well. Carr Gomm bangs his gavel, smiling broadly. Treves is almost beside himself with happiness, and the Princess is obviously very pleased. 
CARR The motion is carried. 
Broadneck, humiliated, cannot look at anyone. 
CARR Well, now we may go about our normal business. 
MERRICK'S ROOM 
NIGHT PORTER Curtain time!!! 
Merrick is frozen, caught. Seeing Merrick in his outfit, the Night Porter's jaw drops. They both stare at each other. The Night Porter begins to laugh hysterically. Merrick frantically begins to put away his dressing bag articles. When Merrick starts taking off his ring, the Night Porter comes over to him and grabs him by the cloak. 
NIGHT PORTER No, no! You look lovely. Don't change a thing, darling. You look like the bleedin' Prince of Wales. 
The Night Porter drags him by the neck to the window. He throws the window open out in the square is the waiting audience. 
NIGHT PORTER My friends... The Elephant Man! 
He strips off Merrick's cloak. The audience gasps. A few people who have been before laugh and clap. 
MAN (W/THE WHORES) (laughing and clapping) Horrible... I told you it was horrible... just horrible. 
He starts kissing each whore. The crowd is mesmerized. Bytes moves in behind the Man with the Whores. 
BYTES (to Man) Perhaps the ladies would like a closer look? 
The Man begins to laugh. The Whores laugh drunkenly and halfheartedly resist being taken in to see The Elephant Man. As they are pushed through the door, 
WHORES Come on Jack... No... No, don't. (laughter) Etc. 
The Whores reluctantly enter the room. The Night Porter laughs at their discomfort. The Man notices all of Merrick's pictures of women. 
MAN 'Cor, he's a real ladies' man, come on... give the ladies' man a kiss. 
He lets one of the whores go and grabs the other one from behind at the wrists. 
MAN Come on, you'll give him a kiss. 
WHORE (still laughing but a trifle scared) Come on, Jack. 
The Night Porter has turned Merrick and is holding him for the approaching kiss. The crowd is egging them on. The man forces the Woman closer and closer and raises her arms to force her into an embrace. As Merrick and the Woman touch, being pressed together, the Woman begins to scream. The Night Porter, the Man and the crowd all laugh with glee. Merrick and the whore now have their faces pressed together. The Whore is screaming and Merrick is crying out and screaming too. 
MAN Here that's enough romance. Now into bed. 
Merrick and the Whore are pushed onto Merrick's bed. The Night Porter grabs the other Whore now. She begins screaming wildly. 
NIGHT PORTER A prince needs a harem! 
He pushes the screaming Whore down onto Merrick. Her screaming face goes right into his. Merrick tries to move away and as he does his head goes too far back and his cried turn to horrible wheezing. 
NIGHT PORTER Mind his head... You'll kill him. 
The crowd outside is trying to see in the window. Five or six more have gone into Merrick's room to see. All are laughing and screaming and trying to get a close look at The Elephant Man. 
NIGHT PORTER (yelling) Quiet down. Quiet down. You'll have the whole place down on us. 
BYTES (outside, yelling loudly) Bring him out then, so's we all can see him. 
Merrick recognizes his voice and looks frantically around for his former owner. The Night Porter pulls Merrick up by the window again. He then begins pushing the crowd out the door. 
NIGHT PORTER Everyone outside!!! 
Suddenly one of the crowd outside reaches up and grabs Merrick's good hand and pulls him half out the window. Others follow suit and haul him all the way through. The cathedral falls to the floor, breaking into several pieces. 
Because of the horror of touching him, the crowd outside lets Merrick fall to the ground. 
The Night Porter whirls around and sees that Merrick is gone. He pushes the rest of the people outside and quickly goes to Merrick, lifting him to his feet. 
Unseen by anyone, Bytes slips into Merrick's room. Merrick is now standing. 
The crowd moves in. The Night Porter is enjoying the festivities, but looks around nervously for trouble. 
ONE MAN Give 'im a drink. 
The Man grabs Merrick and pours some gin into his mouth, then pushes him away. 
He's caught by another man, fed liquor and pushed away. He's pushed now from person to person faster and faster. Finally Merrick falls to the ground, dizzy and a bottle of gin on Merrick's head. He coughs and moans through the wheezing. The crowd is now strangely silent circling The Elephant Man like a pack of dogs closing in on a terrified rabbit. Suddenly Merrick starts to wail. The crowd joins in and they hoist him above their heads, screaming with laughter, around and around, joining him all the while. 
Now we see a window reflecting the scene of terror. A curtain is pulled aside and we see through the reflection the face of the Young Porter, watching everything. 
NIGHT PORTER (V.O. THE REFLECTION) Here now... Here now... He's had enough... show's over! 
Merrick is lowered down into the crowd. it parts and the Night Porter emerges walking Merrick toward us to his room. 
NIGHT PORTER (to the crowd behind him) Meet you at the Peacock. 
ONE OF THE CROWD Bring your friend. 
NIGHT PORTER (laughs drunkenly) He's had 'is fill for one night. 
The crowd moves through the iron gate of Bedstead Square. In the background we see Bytes' boy sitting on top of a wagon. The Night Porter takes Merrick into his room and puts him on the bed. He drunkenly stumbles about trying to out the room in order. He places the smashed hulk of the cathedral back up on its table, inadvertently leaving the spire and a few columns on the floor. He picks the cloak up and replaces it on the peg. 
NIGHT PORTER (to Merrick) I did real well tonight. 
He takes a purse full of coins out of his pocket. He removes one small coin and flips it on the floor in front of Merrick. 
NIGHT PORTER Here... buy yourself a sweet. 
The Night Porter turns and leaves. 
Merrick, alone now, hears the Night Porter's echoing footsteps and the distant sound of the gate being closed. There is a long silence as Merrick collects himself. He then leans back into his pillows with a deep sigh. His eyes close. 
BYTES (V.O.) My treasure... 
BYTES You sly bastard. You're doing this to spite me, aren't you! 
BOY Aw, Bytes, he's sick. 
BYTES He's doing it to spite me, I tell you, and it's got to stop! 
BOY He's sick, Bytes. He's going to die. 
BYTES (enraged) If he does it's his own fault! But I'm not burying that swollen bag of flesh. 
He reaches in and grabs Merrick roughly by his arm, dragging him out of the wagon. 
BOY What are you going to do? 
BYTES I'll show you! I'll show you! 
He drags Merrick across the way to a small monkey wagon. The boy follows, his face filled with sympathy for Merrick. Bytes opens the cage door and stuffs Merrick in as the monkeys scream. 
BOY Don't! 
BYTES Shut up! 
He slams the door and latches it. Then he quickly turns, still in his rage, and starts for the wagon. As he passes the boy, the boy tries to stop him. 
BOY Bytes, please... 
Bytes knocks the boy down with the back of his hand. He stalks to his wagon and climbs inside. After some muffled sound, Merrick's food bowl comes flying out. There are more muffled sounds as Merrick's stick, cloak and hood are also thrown out one by one. 
BYTES Out! 
The boy looks to Merrick who is in a panic trying to keep himself away from the monkeys who scream loudly in all the excitement. We hear Bytes, cursing to himself, in the wagon. The boy, frightened, goes to the fire and pulls a blanket around him. 
Merrick crawls to one corner of the cage away from the screaming monkeys. 
Suddenly one of the braver ones leaps at Merrick with a scream, biting him on the arm, and moving quickly away. Merrick yelps with pain and struggles to move away. The other monkeys have gotten the idea now and they begin to move warily toward Merrick, screeching threateningly. Another leaps out and clings to Merrick's shoulder, biting and scratching furiously then he too jumps away. 
Merrick cries out. 
Now the monkeys are getting braver and more and more of them lash out at Merrick with their paws. They jump onto him with savage screams, biting him on the head and neck and shoulders. Merrick's eyes search for escape. The monkeys come on and on without a break, screaming madly all the while. 
With his good hand Merrick begins to pull himself up with the aid of a bar. 
The monkeys strive to pull him down. Merrick looks through the bars at the wagon and screams frantically. 
MERRICK Bytes! Bytes, please!! 
But Bytes won't come. Something is happening inside Merrick. A wave of feeling is growing, coming from a place in him very deep down and far away. 
This feeling seems to give him strength and he is able to pull himself all the way up in spite of the hairy moving mass that now seems to cling to every part of his body. 
The feeling is surging up inside Merrick making his body shake uncontrollably as if he were a volcano about to erupt. The monkeys keep on biting and screeching, pulling at him. Suddenly a formidable cry rings out of Merrick's mouth, with a power and assurance we have never heard from him before. He whirls about and cries out again a shattering "No", the force of which scatters most of the monkeys away from him onto the cage floor, dumbfounded. 
Merrick grabs a monkey who has managed to hang and throws it into the group of monkeys on the floor. 
MERRICK NO! I AM NOT AN ELEPHANT! I AM NOT AN ANIMAL!! I AM A HUMAN BEING! I... AM... A MAN! I AM A MAN!! 
The monkeys have been shocked into silence, pushed into the other end of the cage. Merrick, perhaps as surprised as the monkeys, rests against the bars of the cage. The monkeys make no move toward him. They sit across the cage from Merrick silently watching him with fear. 
FADE OUT: 
CUT TO: 
THE SILENT FACES OF THE MONKEYS 
We now see Merrick crouched in a corner of the cage in his sleeping position. 
We see the monkeys again, and hear whispering in the still night. CU of merrick's head resting on his knees. The whispering continues and a shadow falls across Merrick. Merrick begins to stir, his head comes up, and he looks around. The whispering stops. 
We pull back to see some of the freaks from the circus gathered around the monkey cage in a small group. They are: 2 pinheads (male and female), the dwarf we saw earlier with the plumed hat and the ark on a string, another male dwarf, a female midget, a lion-faced man, and an armless wonder. The female pinhead reaches into the cage and pats Merrick's head. 
PLUMED DWARF You alright? 
MERRICK y-y-yes-- 
PLUMED DWARF Want to come out? 
MERRICK You're English. 
PLUMED DWARF Of course! You want out? 
MERRICK Yes. 
PLUMED DWARF Won't be a moment. 
He looks to the lion-faced man and speaks to him in a foreign tongue. The lion-faced man unlatches the cage door. Then, after further instruction, from the plumed dwarf, the freaks gently help Merrick out of the cage, closing the door behind him. The dwarf speaks to the others again and the lion-faced man and the armless wonder move to each side of Merrick. The lion-faced man pulls Merrick's right arm over his shoulder. Merrick puts his left arm around the armless wonder. 
PLUMED DWARF We've decided... You've got to get away from here... 
He and the other dwarf light two lanterns and they begin to move off. 
The boy by the wagon has awakened. He sees the small caravan of freaks moving in the darkness, the light from the lanterns bobbing over the grass. His first instinct is to call for Bytes, which he almost does, but then he thinks better of it. He rises and goes to where Bytes threw Merrick's stick and disguise. 
He nicks them up and goes to the small band of strangely shaped beings. They stop and watch him warily. 
BOY (handing over the things) Here... you'll need these. 
KENDAL Well it is a miracle he ever got back. And, I'm sure, Mr. Treves, under your expert care, he'll have many happy years ahead. 
TREVES I fear not, Mrs. Kendal. Even in the short time he was gone the size of his head has increased rapidly... as is his pain. 
KENDAL How awful for John. 
TREVES And yet, not once have any of us heard him complain. 
KENDAL Is he... dying then? 
TREVES Yes. There is nothing more frustrating, nothing that makes a physician feel more useless, than standing by watching his patient deteriorate. And when that patient is a friend, no... no, there's absolutely nothing I can do. 
KENDAL Well, it's all quite... I've never heard... It's quite... 
TREVES (understandingly) Yes. 
MERRICK'S ROOM - MORNING 
Merrick stands before the row of smiling ladies on his wall. He surveys them lovingly for a long moment. He is holding in his hand a bundle of evening clothes, the handsome black bow tie lying on the new silk shirt. 
MERRICK You women are such strange and wonderful creatures... Alas, it seems to be my fate to fall in love with each and everyone of you. I especially wish you could all be with me tonight... I'm finally going to the theatre. 
He stands for a moment, reluctant to leave their company. He goes to his bed placing the clothes upon it, and then to the cathedral. He compares it with St. Phillips outside. He picks up the main spire and gazes at it, but his mind is somewhere else. 
MERRICK ...The theatre... 
CUT TO: 
THEATRE ROYAL - DRURY LANE 
We see the whole theatre. It is very ornate. The orchestra is tuning up and the house is filled with elegant, well dressed, handsome people all happily chatting and calling to one another. We see young men and women flirting boldly and generally enjoying each other's company. In the Royal Box Mothershead and Nora in evening gowns sit up front relishing the spectacle. 
In the back of the box John sits between Treves and the Princess. He is dressed in his evening clothes, his cloak tied over his shoulders like a cape, but he does not wear his hood. 
The Princess is explaining to Merrick the workings of a pair of opera glasses. 
He takes them and delightedly spies about the theatre. 
John is breathless as the house lights dim and the curtain rises. Enter chorus. 
CHORUS O for a Muse of fire, that would ascend The brightest heaven of invention, A kingdom for a stage, princes to act And monarchs to behold the swelling scene! Then should the warlike Harry, like himself, Assume the port of Mars; and at his heels, Leash'd in like hounds, should famine, sword and fire Crouch for employment. But pardon, gentles all, The flat unraised spirits that have dar'd On this unworthy scaffold to bring forth So great an object: can this cockpit hold The vasty fields of Rance? Or may we cram Within this wooden O the very casques That did affright the air at Agincourt? O, pardon! since a crooked figure may Attest in little place a million; And let us, ciphers to this great account, On your imaginary forces work. 
FADE OUT: 
CUT TO: 
Treves smiling at John. He exchanges knowing smiles with the Princess. John watches with the unconstrained delight of a child; but his rapture is even more intense and solemn. His attitude is one of wonder and awe, and he often leans forward, panting in his excitement. To John the characters are not actors in make-up and costume, but real people. 
CUT TO: 
Mrs. Kendal and an actor dressed as royalty doing the last scene of Henry the Fifth. 
K. HEN Fair Katharine, and most fair, will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms Such as will enter at a lady's ear And plead his love-suit to her gentle heart? 
KATH Your majesty shall mock at me; I cannot speak your England. 
K. HEN O fair Katharine, if you will love me soundly with your French heart, I will be glad to hear you confess it brokenly with your English tongue. Do you like me, Kate? 
KATH Pardonnez-moi, I cannot tell vat is "like me". 
K. HEN An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel. 
KATH O bon Dieu! les langues des hommes sont pleines de tramperies. 
K. HEN What say you, fair one? That the tongues of men are full of deceits? 
KATH Oui, dat de tongues of de mans is be full of deceits. 
K. HEN I know no way to mince it in love, but directly to say "I love you". What! A speaker is but a prater; a rhyme is but a ballad. A good leg will fall; a straight back will stoop; a black beard will turn white; a curl'd pate will grow bald; a fair face will wither; a full eye will wax hollow; but a good heart, Kate, is the sun and the moon, or rather the sun and not the moon; for it shines bright and never changes, but keeps his course truly. 
During the above, Merrick mouths the Kings lines. 
FADE OUT: 
CUT TO: 
The Royal Box, the Princess and the two friends enjoying the show. 
CUT TO: 
THE STAGE 
The chorus steps out to give the epilogue. 
CHORUS Thus far, with rough and allunable pen, Our bending author hath pursued the story, In little room confining mighty men, Mangling by starts the full course of their glory. Small time, but in that small most greatly liv'd This star of England: Fortune made his sword; By which the world's best garden he achiev'd. 
During the above, the CAMERA moves in on John. 
Amidst great applause the curtain rings down. Through the curtain comes Mrs. Kendal to renewed applause. She motions the audience to quiet down. 
MRS. KENDAL Thank you for your warm greeting. Ladies and gentlemen, tonight's performance was very special to me, because it was very special to someone else, a man who knows the theatre and loves the theatre, and yet tonight is the first time he's ever actually been here. I would like to dedicate... the whole company wishes to dedicate, from their hearts, tonight's performance to Mr. John Merrick, my dear friend. 
She gestures toward the Royal Box. There is modest applause as the audience rises and turns toward it. Merrick cannot be seen in the shadows, and the crowd cranes their necks trying to get a glimpse of him. We hear whispers of "Oh look! It's the Elephant Man! The Elephant Man!' run through the audience. Treves turns to John. 
TREVES Stand up, John. Let them see you. 
