EVEN COWGIRLS GET THE BLUES 
Written by 
Gus Van Sant 
Based on a novel by 
Tom Robbins 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
INT. CAVE NIGHT 
There is a huge ancient hourglass made of animal skins, and acorns plop through the waist of the hourglass one by one. It sits in a pool of water. In the water swim EYELESS CATFISH in geometric patterns. An underground stream feeds the pool of water and then flows into a huge underground crevasse that on occasion emits a LOW RUMBLE. 
INDIANS with torches surround the hourglass, which now we can see is in a cave. And as soon as the acorns have finished passing through the hourglass, a crew of Indians turn it on its opposite end. One of the Indians appears to be JAPANESE. 
ONE INDIAN stands at the wall of the cavern in front of a series of symbolic carvings and scratches, with stone in hand he makes a few hatchmarks, and keeps an eye on the CREVASSE. 
THE CREVASSE RUMBLES once more, loosening a few chunks of rock from the cave. 
The earth begins to shake. 
THE CHART KEEPER She is restless tonight. 
ANOTHER INDIAN She dreams of loving. 
STILL ANOTHER She has the blues. 
View of the chartkeeper's drawings. One is of a crane with a very long neck. Another is a primitive drawing of a naked girl, who has long flowing hair. She also has, pointed out from her sides, thumbs that are three times normal human proportions. A MUSICAL CHORUS sounds at the sight of this drawing of a girl with the thumbs. The chartkeeper puts the finishing touches on the drawing. 
And the song "Happy Birthday to You" strikes up on country and western guitar and polka-like accordion. title 
BIG THUMBS 
INT. RICHMOND VIRGINIA SUBURBAN HOME DAY 
We see CANDLES burning on a cake. It is somebody's birthday. And there are six candles on the cake. 
SISSY HANKSHAW is six years old. 
Her DADDY and a visiting UNCLE, finishing their rendition of Happy Birthday, are staring down at Sissy and looking at her young THUMBS, WHICH ARE UNUSUALLY LARGE and twitch with a mind of their own. 
She manages to blow out all six candles. 
UNCLE Well, you're lucky that you don't suck 'em. 
Directly under the wrist where the watch band would be is written MADAME ZOE. 
Madam Zoe in kimono and wig lets Sissy and her mother in the door. 
MADAME ZOE I am the enlightened Madame Zoe. 
Inside. Madame Zoe begins stubbing a cigarette in one of those enlightened little ceramic ashtrays that are shaped like bedpans and inscribed BUTTS. The trailer is cluttered, but not one knick-knack, chintz curtain or chenille-covered armchair seems to have come from the Beyond. 
MADAME ZOE There is nothing about your past, present or future that your hands do not know, and there is nothing about your hands that Madame Zoe does not know. There is no hocus-pocus involved. I am a scientist, not a magician. I, Madame Zoe, chiromancer, lifelong student of the moldings and markings of the human hand. I, Madame Zoe, to whom no facet of your character or destiny is not readily revealed. I am prepared to... 
Then she notices the thumbs. 
MADAME ZOE Jesus fucking Christ! 
Mrs. Hankshaw and the fortune-teller turn pale and uncertain, while Sissy recognizes with a faint smile that she is in command. 
Sissy extends the thumbs as an ailing aborigine might extend his swollen parts to a medical missionary. Sissy's mama draws a neatly folded five-dollar bill from her change purse and extends it alongside her smiling daughter's extremities. 
Madame Zoe returns to her senses, and takes Sissy by the elbow to sit at a For mica-topped table of undistinguished design. 
Madam Zoe holds Sissy's hands while she appears to go into a trance. 
She opens her eyes momentarily. 
MADAME ZOE You have a strong will. Will power and determination are indicated by the first phalanx. The second phalanx indicates reason and logic. You obviously have both in large supply. What's your name, dearie? 
SISSY Sissy. 
MADAME ZOE Hmmm. I'd say that you have an intelligent, kindly, somewhat artistic nature. However, Sissy, however, there is a heavy quality to the second phalanx- the phalanx of logic -- that indicates a capacity for foolish or clownish behavior, a refusal to accept responsibility or to take things seriously and bent to be disrespectful of those who do. Your mama tells me that you're pretty well behaved and shy, but I'd watch out for signs of irrationality. All right? 
She pulls her thumb to her breast. 
MADAME ZOE I guess the most important aspect of your thumbs is the, ahem, over all size. Uh, what was it, do you know, that caused...? 
Mom speaks out from the couch she is sitting on 
MRS HANKSHAW Don't know; the doctors don't know... 
SISSY Just lucky I guess. 
MADAME ZOE Do you study history in school? Galileo, Descartes, Newton? Lebinitz had very large thumbs; Voltaire's were enormous, but, heh heh, just pickles compared with yours. 
SISSY What about Crazy Horse? 
MADAME ZOE Crazy Horse? You mean the Indian? Nobody that I've ever heard of ever troubled to study the paws of savages. Well, I guess that about covers the three-fifty charge... 
Madame Zoe lets go of Sissy's thumbs and wipes her hands on her kimono. 
Delores catches it..... The card is the Queen of Spades. 
EXT. ROAD DAY 
Sissy is thirty years old now wearing a trademark colored jumpsuit. She is saying these words still: "Greater freedom of movement." 
Sissy sticks out her thumb, even though there is no traffic. 
A plane is flying overhead. Sissy hitches it; and the plane's flight path curves with in response to her gesture. A squirrel running by stops to look. The bus on the other side of the road skids to a stop and two cars coming her way stop as well. 
INT. CAR DAY 
The man driving looks over the back seat to the hitchiker behind him. 
INT. BUS DAY 
The bus driver does the same. 
EXT. ROAD 
From the look of her Sissy is a very seasoned hitchhiker, and she turns around relatively unimpressed with the fact that a car has stopped for her. 
SISSY'S VIEW. The man driving is black-skinned, beret-topped and he has four smiling gold teeth and six shiny brass saxaphones in the back seat. He wears a gardenia in his lapel and tokes on a short joint. 
SISSY Going north? 
MAN You bet your raggedy white ass I am. 
Sissy gets in. 
He turns up the volume of his radio and rockets north. 
INT. LINCOLN CONTINENTAL DAY 
Sissy ventures into her pocket and pulls out a slice of cheese and offers it to him. He now gets a better look at her unusual thumbs. They are elegant, but large boned, and disproportionate. They are banana shaped boats that makes it a little awkward to hold onto the cheese. 
MAN (taking an alarming interest in her thumbs) Thanks. 
SISSY American Cheese. The king of road food. 
He eats the cheese, and worries about the thumbs. He tokes on the joint between his fingers. 
MAN Are you in show business? 
SISSY I was a successful model once. 
MAN For magazines? 
SISSY Right off, I don't remember how old I was when I found out I was part Indian. My mamma's family, a lot of them, had lived out West, in the Dakotas, and one of them had married a squaw. Siwash tribe. My pleasure in Indianhood and my passion for car travel might be incongruous if not mutually exclusive........ After all, the first car that ever stopped for me had been named in honor of the great chief of the Ottawa: Pontiac...... 
In the distance, Sissy spies her destination. NEW YORK CITY. 
SISSY NEW YORK CITY. It's still a helluva town.... 
EXT. OFFICE BUILDING DAY 
Sissy gets out of the truck and looks up at a large building. 
INT. COUNTESS'S OFFICE DAY 
THE COUNTESS Sit down dear, do sit down. 
Sissy Hankshaw takes a seat. The Countess lifts a dusty decanter. 
THE COUNTESS Take a load off those lovely tootsies. Yes, sit right down. Would you fancy some sherry? 
The decanter is empty, a stiff fly lies feet up on it's lip. 
THE COUNTESS Shit O goodness, I'm all out of sherry; how about some Red Ripple? 
He reaches into a midget refrigerator beside his desk and pulls out some pop wine. 
THE COUNTESS You know what Red Ripple is don't you? It's Kool-Aid with a hard on. Tee Hee. 
Sissy manages a polite smile. She looks at a heavily finger printed glass. 
THE COUNTESS (he toasts) To my own special Sissy. Cheers! And welcome. So my letter brought ya flying, eh? Where were you? Salt Lake City? La Conner? Well, I may have a little surprise for you. But first, tell me about yourself. It's been six months, hasn't it? In some circles that's half a year. How are you? 
SISSY Tired... 
THE COUNTESS That's the very first time in the eons that I've known you that I've ever heard you complain. And now you're tired, poor darling. 
SISSY A born freak can only go uphill. 
THE COUNTESS Freak, schmeek. Most of us are freaks in one way or another. Try being born a male Russian countess into a white middle class Baptist family in Mississippi and you'll see what I mean. 
SISSY I've always been proud of the way nature singled me out. It's the people who have been deformed by society I feel sorry for. I've been steady moving for eleven years and some months. Maybe I should rest up for a spell, I'm not as young as I used to be. 
THE COUNTESS Shit O goodness, you won't be thirty for another year, and you're more beautiful than ever. 
SISSY Does that mean you might have an assignment for me? 
The Countess taps his monocle with his cigarette holder. He looks on his wall, and on a poster advertising a feminine hygene product, Yoni Yum Dew Spray, stands Sissy Hankshaw, her thumbs neatly hidden, chopped off by the borders of the photograph. 
THE COUNTESS You were the Yoni Yum girl from, let's see, (peruses the ad layouts on the wall) from nineteen sixty-eight through nineteen seventy. You've always smelled so nice. Like a little sister. The irony has just killed me. You, the Dew Girl, one of the few girls who doesn't need Dew. I loath the stink of females! They are so sweet the way God made them, then they start fooling around with men and soon they're stinking. Like rotten mushrooms, like an excessively chlorinated swimming pool, like a tuna fish's retirement party. They all stink. From the Queen of England to Bonanza Jellybean, they stink. 
THE COUNTESS Good, good, good... you'll enjoy it, you'll see. Julian is a gentleman. 
Suddenly the Countess swivels in his desk chair and leans forward. Lowering his wine glass, he focuses directly, intensely into Sissy's blue eyes. His smile widens. 
THE COUNTESS By the way, Sissy... he's a full blooded Indian. 
A title: 
COWGIRL INTERLUDE 
INT. RUBBER ROSE OUTHOUSE DAY 
The Outhouse Radio is playing "The Starving Armenians Polka" and Bonanza Jellybean and Delores del Ruby are in the privy, caught in the rain. 
JELLY Well, I'm not scared of a little rain. 
DELORES Me neither. 
JELLY Might as well brave it. 
DELORES Right. I don't know about you but I'm sure not sweet enough to melt. 
Delores flicks her whip at a sweat bee that has taken refuge in the privy and hits the photograph of Dale Evans upon which it has lit. 
Jelly looks out the door of the outhouse across a cut green lawn to a bunkhouse where we can see a gathering of other cowgirls. 
There is a fly buzz and a distant polka yip. Way off horse lips flutter. 
Bonanza spies a picture of Sissy Hankshaw, an advertisement for Yoni Yum Dew Spray mist, on the privy wall. 
JELLY (musing) Someday...... if that Sissy Hankshaw ever shows up here, I'm gonna teach her how to hypnotize a chicken. Chickens are the easiest critters on Earth to hypnotize. If you can look a chicken in the eyes for tens seconds, it's yours forever. 
INT. BUNKHOUSE DAY 
A meeting is in progression in the bunkhouse that morning. Mary is addressing the group. 
MARY I want to complain that some of the cowgirls have been sleeping two to a bunk again, in violation of the agreement that "crimes against nature" are to be confined to the hayloft. 
DEBBIE I don't care who lay with whom or where or how, but the moaners, groaners and screamers ought to turn down their volume when others are trying to sleep or meditate. 
Some of the younger cowgirls blush. 
BIG RED I want to complain about the food around here! It's rotten to the core. 
A round of support from the other cowgirls in the form of cattle calls. 
INT. OUTHOUSE DAY 
INT. CAB NIGHT 
Carla starts to pat Sissy's hand, then decides to leave the thumbs to themselves. 
The six of them are squeezed into the taxi. Sissy looks out the window of the taxi: 
SISSY'S VIEW as the taxi stops at a light, she can see a newsstand headline on the front page of the New York Daily News: 
THE CHINK SUMS IT UP, SAYS LIFE IS HARD IF YOU THINK IT'S HARD. 
EXT. JULIAN'S APARTMENT NIGHT 
THE TAXI stops in front of Julian's building. It discharges its passengers. 
INT. JULIAN'S APARTMENT NIGHT 
INSIDE Howard mixes Scotch and sodas, Rupert fills a syringe from a vial of aminophylline he has taken from its place behind a gelatin salad mold in the refrigerator. He gives Julian an injection. 
RUPERT There, that ought to beat them bronchial buggers into submission. 
He turns to Sissy. 
RUPERT I was a medic in the Army. I really should have become a doctor. Sometimes, though, I feel that pushing books is a whole lot like pushing medicine. Think of books as pills. I have pills that cure ignorance and pills that cure boredom. I have pills to elevate moods and pills to open people's eyes to the awful truth... 
CARLA Too bad you don't have a pill for bullshit. 
Carla smiles as if she were joking, but she'd said it tartly. Rupert glares and takes a big bite of Scotch. 
HOWARD (changing the subject) Where do you live, Miss Hankshaw? 
SISSY I'm staying with the Countess. 
HOWARD I know, but where do you reside when you aren't visiting New York? 
SISSY I don't. 
HOWARD You don't? 
SISSY Well, no, I don't reside anywhere in particular. I just keep moving. 
Everyone looks a bit astonished including the recumbent Julian. 
HOWARD A traveler, eh? 
SISSY You might say that, although I don't think of it as traveling. 
CARLA How do you think of it? 
Marie slips out of her own brassiere and moves her bare bosom close to Sissy's. 
MARIE Mine are fuller but yours are more perfectly shaped. 
HOWARD Highly debatable. I'll wager they're the exact same size. 
Howard cups his left hand about a Marie breast and his right about one of Sissy's. He weighs them in his palms, squeezes them the way an honest grocer squeezes excess water from a lettuce, and spreads his fingers to sample their circumference. 
HOWARD Hmm. Yours are larger, Marie, but Miss Hankshaw's -- Sissy's -- are more firm. You'd think they would have started to droop; I mean, from not wearing a bra. 
MARIE Howard! Watch your manners. You've made her blush. Here, Sissy, let me compare. 
Marie seizes Sissy's free breast, quickly, like a monkey picking a fruit, rolling it about in her hungry little finger, rubbing it against her chin and cheeks... 
...and... 
...it was like her earlier days as a hitchhiker.... nostalgic..... tropical plums. 
SISSY (in ecstasy) This place is finer than the place I live! 
Like a disc jockey from Paradise, Howard flips Marie over and plays her B side. Every now and then she reaches for Sissy to include her, but the laws of physics insist on being obeyed. 
Over and over Marie calls Sissy's name with half-closed eyes. 
The Barths are really going at it, Marie yowling like a cat. 
The POODLE in the kitchen begins to growl. 
SISSY So this is what it's like... so this is what it's really like. 
INT. LIVING ROOM NIGHT 
Sissy bounces out of the bed and patters through the living room and crawls under the cover with Julian. Julian stirs awake. 
JULIAN Oh, Sissy. I am sorry about all the fuss. 
Julian and Sissy embrace and go at it under the covers But suddenly: Julian stops after a brief climax. 
JULIAN (with downcast eyes) I apologize. 
Sissy cradles Julian and comforts him. 
JULIAN It is the measure of Western Civilization that it can encompass in harmony, balance off, as it were, such divergent masterworks as A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM and THE AMERICAN DREAM, as the dome of the Sistine Chapel and the ceiling of the Paris opera. 
Sissy sits up, her eyes moping about the apartment, looking but not seeing the macrame wallhangings, the volumes of Robert Frost. 
JULIAN What's the matter? 
THE COUNTESS It's high time you realized, honey babe, that a woman doesn't have to give the best years of her life to Radcliffe or Smith in order to speak the English language. 
JULIAN Countess. I'm really in a dither. She's turned my head. 
THE COUNTESS Ninety degrees to the left, I hope. How does she feel about you? 
JULIAN I think she's disappointed that I'm not more, ah, sort of atavistic. She's got some naive, sentimental notions about Indians. I'm sure she liked me, though; but.... then she left town. 
THE COUNTESS She always leaves town, you dummy. That doesn't mean anything. What about in bed? How does she like it in bed? 
Julian pauses for a very long moment. 
JULIAN How does she like what in bed? 
THE COUNTESS Like what? 
The Countess' teeth chatter in his mouth. 
THE COUNTESS What do you think? 
JULIAN Well.... er... 
THE COUNTESS Shit O dear, Julian. Do you mean to tell me you didn't get it on? 
JULIAN Oh, we didn't get it all the way on. 
THE COUNTESS Whose fault was that? 
JULIAN I suppose it was mine. Yes, it definitely was my fault. 
THE COUNTESS What do they do to you boys in those Ivy league schools, anyway? Strap you down and pump the Nature out of you? They can even press the last drop of Nature out of a Mohawk buck. Why, send a shaman or cannibal to Yale for four years and all he'd be fit for would be a desk in the military-industrial complex and a seat in the third row at a Neil Simon comedy. Jesus H.M.S. Christ! If Harvard or Princeton could get hold of the Chink for a couple of semesters they'd turn him into a candidate for the Bow Tie Wing of the Hall of Wimps. Oogie boogie. 
JULIAN If we Ivy Leaguers aren't earthy enough to suit you hillbillies, at least we don't go around indulging in racist terms such as 'Chink.' Next thing I know, you'll be calling me 'chief.' 
THE COUNTESS Chink's the guy's name, for Christ's sake. 
JULIAN What guy? 
THE COUNTESS Aw, he's some old fart holyman who lives in the hills out West. Gives my ranch the creeps and the willies, too. But though he be old and dirty, he's alive, I'll bet, clear down to his toes. They don't have his juice in a jar in New Haven. Well I suppose that I'll have to write Sissy out on the road. 
EXT. ROAD DAY 
Sissy makes little puffs of dust as she walks. 
From the direction of the ranch a VW Microbus is approaching. It is painted with mandalas, lamaistic dorjes and symbols representing "the clear light of the void." 
When the Microbus draws alongside Sissy it stops. Inside are two men and a woman. They are approximately twenty-four years old. 
MISS ADRIAN I'll tell you why, it's that plague of cowgirls. They've gradually infiltrated every sector of our program. The one named Debbie considers herself an expert on exercising and diet. With Bonanza Jellybean's permission and against my explicit orders, she's been coercing the guests into trying something called kundalini yoga. Do you know what that is? It's trying to mentally force a serpent of fire to crawl up your spinal column. Miss Hankshaw, our guests can't comprehend kundalini yoga, let alone do it. Yesterday, she ordered a new cookbook by a Tibetan Negro, entitled Third Eye in the Kitchen: Himalayan Soul Food. God knows what that will be like. The little barbarians are destroying everything that I've built, mocking all that the company stands for. And there's a new one, one they call del Ruby. She has the good will of a scorpion. I've considered it prudent to avoid a confrontation that might further upset the guests. But now that the season is practically over -- we operate April through September -- and the Countess is finally coming... 
EXT. RUBBER ROSE DAY 
The limousine pulls up in the drive. 
MISS ADRIAN'S VOICE Our Ranch has all the latest in modern facilities... 
INT. BEAUTY RANCH DAY 
We see women having facials. 
MISS ADRIAN'S VOICE We have a facial wing, and next to that is the Hair Barn... 
INT. HAIR BARN DAY 
Sissy is being given a tour by Miss Adrian. A variety of hairdos are witnessed. 
MISS ADRIAN We have a team of fifteen hair experts from all over the world. 
INT. EXERCISE ROOM DAY 
MISS ADRIAN And fanny flab flies off in this room at the rate of six hundred and seventy-five pounds a day... that's a lot of salted ham, Sissy.... 
INT. MAIN LODGE DAY 
Sissy and Miss Adrian walk through the lodge lobby, guests and cowgirls are conducting a variety of activities: 
A BIRD EXPERT projects slides of whooping cranes on the wall and is giving a lecture about the habits of the birds. 
In the center of the room COWGIRL DEBBIE is leading a mixture of cowgirls and guests in a meditative chant as they reach high above their heads in a yoga exercise. 
Miss Adrian stops in front of the registration desk and Sissy catches glimpses of the chaotic lobby. 
MISS ADRIAN Our special guest Miss Sissy Hankshaw is with us. 
The receptionist hands Miss Adrian a key to Sissy's room. 
A COWGIRL makes a face at Sissy as she walks by carrying a tray of herbal teas. 
A representative of the film crew is being intimidated by a Cowgirl who is looking though his camera lenses and shaking them and listening to them like you would put a shell up to your ear to hear the ocean. 
COWGIRL Cool! We're going to make a movie!... 
Another cowgirl, BIG RED, is lifting a piece of furniture and passes it to her accomplice. 
BIG RED Get rid of the furniture.... it's too masculine... Get rid of all the furniture and use it for kindling!!! Break away from these pig-like chauvinist masculine influences.... 
The Maid puts the tray down, and the cloth that covers the food is lifted away to reveal a shocking display of grease and calories. 
A vase of prairie asters stands over a double-meat cheeseburger, a package of Hostess Twinkies, a cold can of Dr. Pepper and a Three Musketeers bar. 
Sissy is delighted. 
SISSY Road food. How did you know? 
MAID Well it is a change of our usual grapefruit and melba toast, I'm sure. 
Sissy notices a card. It reads: 
Compliments of Bonanza Jellybean 
SISSY Bonanza Jellybean.... 
MAID She will be up to see you directly. 
Sissy devours her meal. Out her window she can see women on exercycles, women doing jumping jacks and women in beauty parlors. 
A FIST pounds on Sissy's door. 
IN SAILS Jelly, a cowgirl so cute she makes Sissy blush just to look at her. She wears a tan Stetson with an aster pinned to it, a green satin shirt embroidered with rearing stallions snorting orange fire from their nostrils. 
Her breasts bounce like dinner rolls that have gotten loaded on helium and, between red tinged cheeks, where more baby fat is taking its time maturing, she has a little smile that can cause minerals and plastics to remember their ancient animate connections. 
Jelly grasps Sissy's elbow and sits on the side of the bed. 
JELLY Welcome, podner. By God, it's great to have you here. It's an honor. Sorry I took so long getting to you, but we've had a mess of hard work these past few days -- and a heap of planning to do. 
SISSY Er, you seem to know who I am, and maybe even what I am. Thanks for the breakfast. 
JELLY Oh, I know about Sissy Hankshaw, all right. I've done a little hitchhiking myself. Ah shucks, that's like telling Annie Oakley you're a sharpshooter because you once knocked a tomato can off a stump with a fieldstone. I'd heard tales about you from people I'd meet in jail cells and truckstops. I heard about your, uh, your, ah, your wonderful thumbs, and I heard how you were Jack Kerouac's girl friend... 
Sissy sets her tray on the bedside table. 
SISSY No, I'm afraid that part isn't true. Jack was in awe of me and tracked me down. We spent a night talking and hugging in a corn field, but he was hardly my lover. Besides, I always travel alone. 
JELLY Well, that doesn't matter; that part never interested me anyway. The beatnicks were before my time, and I never got anything outta the hippies but bad dope, clichés and the clap. But the example of your life helped me in my struggle to be a cowgirl. 
The guests are huffing and puffing in between the pauses in conversation, in the background through the window in Sissy's room. 
SISSY Tell me about it. 
JELLY About... 
SISSY About being a cowgirl. What's it all about? When you say the word you make it sound like it was painted in radium on the side of a pearl. 
Gloria cuts in on Debbie and gives the beast a hug. 
HEATHER Look at those playfully wise eyes. 
GLORIA Ooo! It licked me! 
JELLY More and more people are discovering that cow's milk isn't fit for human consumption. Billy West says if we can produce enough goat's milk on the ranch to make it worth his while, he'll run it into Fargo regularly. 
She pauses and looks around the group in the circle. 
DELORES I'm aware that Tad Lucas rode broncs until her ninth month, but I don't think pregnant cowgirls are going to be any asset on this ranch. I hope you itchy clits who are sneaking down to the lake every night are taking precautions. It's bad enough we've got cranes coming; we don't need storks. I feel that those film makers should be removed from the Rubber Rose as soon as possible. Men can cause nothing but trouble here. I also feel that our guest (she nods at Sissy) should be excused while we discuss this matter further. 
Hurt, Sissy leaves the group. 
EXT. RANCH DAY 
Views of Sissy in her Whooping crane outfit dancing to Debussy in front of the Disney film crew. The documentary being directed by an effusive Frenchman. 
View of the camera crew training their long telephoto lenses on Siwash Lake. They all seem to be wearing the same trademark satin baseball jackets with one logo or another on their backs. 
Another view of the lake, from above, from the Chink's point of view and our first view of THE CHINK. The Chink spies Sissy and Jelly coming over a ridge. 
We cannot hear them at first, but Sissy and Jelly are talking. 
JELLY ......Delores zonks out on peyote at least once a week, but so far her Third Vision hasn't happened. Niwetükame, the Mother Goddess has not gotten back in touch with her. Meanwhile she and Debbie are rivaling each other like a couple of crosstown high schools. Tension. Cowgirl tension! What a drag. 
SISSY What is Debbie's position? 
JELLY Debbie says that if women are to take charge again, they must do it in the feminine way; they mustn't resort to aggressive and violent masculine methods. She says it is up to women to show themselves better than men, to love men, set good examples for them and guide them tenderly toward the New Age. She's a real dreamer, that Debbie-dear. 
SISSY You don't agree with Debbie, then? 
JELLY I wouldn't say that. I expect she's right, ultimately. But I'm with Delores when it comes to fighting for what's mine. I can't understand why Delores is so uptight about the Chink; he could probably teach her a thing or two. Ee! That grass tickles, doesn't it? God knows I love women, but nothing can take the place of a man that fits. Still this is cowgirl territory and I'll stand with Delores and fight any bastards who might deny it. I guess I've always been a scrapper. Look. This scar. Only twelve years old and I was felled by a silver bullet. 
Jelly takes Sissy's hand, carefully avoiding the thumbs and helps her feel the depression in her belly. The depression is a dimple, like another navel. 
AFTER A HUNGRY STILLNESS, like intermission at a wolf dance, rhythms are established. Jelly and Sissy are socked into one another now, and they arch and push and corkscrew and jackknife softly but with pronounced cadence. 
Everything becomes scrambled. They rock each other in cradles of sweat and saliva, until we can see nothing. 
Noisy breaths buck out of Sissy: "Jelly, Jelly" but she can't hear Sissy because she is screaming. Hysterical from the scalding hot softness of girl-love. 
EXT. HILLTOP DAY 
The Chink looks on from the hilltop above indifferently. 
EXT. FIELD DAY 
She hears the screen door screech open and a chaos of footsteps in the hall. She goes to her window. And she can see, partially cut off by the corner of the building, Miss Adrian screaming. 
MISS ADRIAN You will all be rounded up and sent to prison if you take this any farther! This is not your ranch!!!! 
EXT. THE FRONT YARD OF THE RUBBER ROSE 
The Countess seems to be taking it slowly, and calmly smoking a French cigarette. He observes the fighting among them with amusement. 
THE COUNTESS You pathetic little cutesy-poos. Do you actually suppose this exhibition of childlike melodrama is advancing the cause of freedom? 
JELLY You owe us this here ranch, as a token payment for your disgusting exploitations 
THE COUNTESS (tranquilly) Then take it. 
JELLY Go for it, girls! 
The hands, who carry axes, picks, pitchforks and shovels, retreat. The Countess, still grinning, reaches for an hors d'oeuvre and subjects his cigarette to a measured, self- assured puff. 
MISS ADRIAN (shaking her fist) Go to your bunkhouse and remain there! 
INT. ROOMS 
The guests are hurriedly packing their things. 
INT. SISSY'S ROOM 
She looks on. 
EXT. FRONT YARD 
When the revolutionaries have retreated about thirty yards, they stop. With astonishing rapidity, they unbuckle unbutton and unzip and step out of their jeans and underpants. Then, nude from the waist down, thatched pubises thrust forward, up front and leading the way, they begin to advance. 
The Countess's grin goes down his throat like bathwater down a drain. 
GLORIA Better reach for your spray cans! 
JELLY Not one of these pussies has been washed in a week! 
Rather pale, his nose twitching, the Countess drops the caviar canapé he has been holding. 
ON COME THE COWGIRLS, pelvises pumping, laying down what the trembling Countess believes to be a devastating barrage of musk. 
Miss Adrian, lost in her own hysteria, charges. A barbeque fork she hurls draws blood from Heather's eyebrow. 
Quick as a frog's tongue, Delores's whip cracks. It's lash curls around the ranch manager's ankles, pulling her feet from under her. She hits the sod in a jangle of jewelry and expulsion of breath. 
A Molotov cocktail thrown by Big Red says hello to the sexual reconditioning building. Within seconds, the structure is blazing. 
SISSY Wait! 
Warily he stops and turns, poised to flee again. 
Sissy smiles. 
SHE RAISES her ripe right thumb. And jerking it and swooshing it, she hitchhikes the Chink and his mountain. 
THERE HE STANDS where Sissy's thumbs have stopped him. The Chink wears the wary look of a wild animal. He's not going to stay stopped long. It is Sissy's move. 
SISSY Well, aren't you going to shake your whanger at me? 
The Chink pauses for a moment, then he slaps his thighs and giggles hysterically. Ha has, ho hos and hee hees squirt out of his nose and through the gaps in his teeth. 
CHINK (laughter dies a nervous chipmunk death) Follow me. I'll fix you supper. 
THE TWO doggedly walk up the steep trail. 
SISSY I'm a friend of Bonanza Jellybean's. 
CHINK I know who you are. 
SISSY Oh? Well, there's been some trouble on the ranch. I came up here to get out of the way. It's so dark now I doubt if I could find my way back down. If you could help... 
CHINK (voice that wears no pants) Save your breath for the climb. 
SISSY takes another look at the Rubber Rose, which is now quiet. We can hear faintly a distant popping of washcloths and girlish laughter. 
THEY make their way into a depression at the top of the mountain down a ladder of sticks. 
THE CHINK lights a large fire in the middle of the depression. 
HE puts a kettle of stew over the fire, and begins to roast yams. 
THE CHINK'S FACE as the fire dances off it. 
A CAN OF CHUNG KING water chestnuts is opened. 
CUT TO: Sissy and the Chink eating supper on a rough wooden bench. 
AND AS THEY FINISH, the Chink goes into a cave and returns with a tiny peppermint-stripped plastic transistor radio. He switches it on and the silence is broken by "The Happy Hour Polka." 
Still clutching the radio in one hand, the Chink hops into the wheel of firelight and begins to dance. 
Sissy walks around the fire watching the old geezer heel and toe, skip and hop. He flings his bones; he flings his beard. 
CHINK Yip! Yip! Ha ha ho ho and hee hee. 
An anesthesiologist sticks needles into a long, graceful neck. 
A nurse scrubs an arm. 
A body and table are draped with sheets to create a sterile field. 
A tourniquet is placed on a slender right arm. 
An elastic rubber bandage is applied so tightly it squeezes most of the blood out of an arm. 
A tourniquet is inflated. 
A surgeon outlines in iodine an incision around the base of a thumb. 
Pale smooth skin is incised along a premarked line and dissected down to the bone. 
Woman flesh is sewn shut with four-ought nylon suture. 
A tourniquet is deflated, a bloody arm bathed. 
A young woman is rolled into a recovery room. 
A nurse and two surgeons, their attention directed by an intensifying pinkish glow, turn to stare into a metal pan, where a huge human thumb, disarticulated from the hand it has been severed from, is now flopping about like a trout, or rather, arching and thrusting itself in a calculated and endlessly repeated gesture, the gesture of the hitchhike. 
EXT. SKY DAY 
Two representatives of the Fish and Wildlife Service are flying over Siwash Lake in a U.S. Forestry Service Helicopter. 
THEY CAN SEE the whooping cranes by the side of the lake. And as they are recording this, shots from a band of young women on horseback drive them away. 
EXT. RUBBER ROSE RANCH DAY 
the same two agents are driving in a truck approaching the Rubber Rose Ranch. Two bullet ricochets spin off the hood and roof of their truck and they stop to see a lone teenaged cowgirl with a rifle. 
EXT. RUBBER ROSE GATES DAY 
An entourage of Forest Service Rangers, a county sheriff, four deputy shriffs, a state game warden and Mottburg's town marshall and several of his deputies, the editor of the Mottburg Gazette and a couple of bird watchers or two are met by... 
AT LEAST FIFTEEN ARMED FEMALES at the gate of the Ranch. Through a bullhorn, Jelly speaks out at the entourage of law enforcement officers. 
JELLY Yep, the whooping cranes are here all right. They're in fine shape, and as you musta saw from your fucking whirly machine, unrestrained, free to go as they please. But this is private property and you aren't laying a foot on it. None of you. 
SHERIFF We'll be back with a court order and a fistful of search warrants. 
JELLY Just come back with a couple of people who know what they're doing and we'll let'em in for a nice close look at the birds. 
DELORES And make sure at least one of them is female, and you better do as we say or there may be trouble. 
NEWS REPORTER The Rubber Rose Ranch has issued a communiqué that was sent to the federal judge and copies of a recording to the press, today. 
We can hear the voice of Bonanza Jellybean: 
JELLY (over the radio) THE WHOOPING CRANE HAS BEEN DRIVEN TO THE EDGE OF EXTINCTION BY AN AGGRESSIVE, BRUTAL PATERNALISTIC SYSTEM INTENT ON SUBDUING THE EARTH AND ESTABLISHING ITS DOMINION OVER ALL THINGS -- IN THE NAME OF GOD THE FATHER, LAW, ORDER AND ECONOMIC PROGRESS. 
Sissy recognizes the voice. 
SISSY That's Jellybean! 
JELLY (V.O.) FROM MEN, THE WHOOPING CRANE HAS RECEIVED NEITHER LOVE NOR RESPECT. MEN HAVE DRAINED THE CRANE'S MARSHES, STOLEN ITS EGGS, INVADED ITS PRIVACY, POLLUTED ITS FOOD, FOULED ITS AIR, BLOWN IT APART WITH BUCKSHOT. 
INT. RANCH OFFICE 
Jelly is on the telephone. 
JELLY OBVIOUSLY, A PATERNALISTIC SOCIETY DOES NOT DESERVE ANYTHING AS GRAND AND BEAUTIFUL AND WILD AND FREE AS THE WHOOPING CRANE. YOU MEN HAVE FAILED IN YOUR DUTY TO THE CRANE. NOW IT IS WOMEN'S TURN. THE CRANES ARE IN OUR CHARGE NOW. WE WILL PROTECT THEM AS LONG AS THEY STILL REQUIRE PROTECTION -- 
INT. HOSPITAL RECOVERY ROOM DAY 
Sissy listens to the radio. 
JELLY'S VOICE WHILE WORKING TOWARD A DAY WHEN THE CREATURES OF THE WORLD NO LONGER HAVE TO SUFFER MAN'S EGOISM, INSENSITIVITY AND GREED. WE REFUSE YOUR ORDER. WE SAY TAKE YOUR ORDER AND SHOVE IT. THIS FLOCK OF BIRDS IS STAYING WITH US. GET LOST, MAC. 
EXT. ROAD DAY 
Sissy is hitchhiking with her new thumb. But cars pass one after another without stopping. Until Sissy finally tries her left thumb, which has been spared the knife. 
With this thumb there are new maneuvers to try out. And as soon as the does, a car stops. 
MOSAIC of hitchhiking brilliance with Sissy's use of her left thumb. A CLOCK IS TICKING past twelve then on to six and past eight.... she dances wildly around traffic, stopping the hardest of drivers, THE CLOCK TICKS AWAY and within thirty hours she is approaching Mottburg again. 
EXT. RUBBER ROSE DAY 
The Ranch is now surrounded by two hundred federal marshalls reinforced by a dozen FBI agents with loaded guns taking position outside the ranch. 
Sissy gets out of her car and walks past the posse and through the gates. 
Kym carries a radio which is playing "The Day-Old Apple Strudel Polka" across the corral. She carries the radio as if it is a suitcase full of skunk lice. 
KYM Man, this is the stupidest music I've ever heard. This radio should have stayed in the privy where it belongs. 
Kym ropes the radio to her saddle horn and prepares to give it a ride across the Dakota hills. She gets on her horse and rides by the Ranch bungalows and spies Sissy sitting in the outhouse. 
SISSY Howdy. 
Kym gets off her horse and hugs Sissy. 
DEBBIE AND JELLY TOGETHER PEYOTE! 
SISSY They're drugged. 
JELLY Aw, come off it, Sissy. What do you mean, 'drugged'? Every living thing is a chemical composition and anything that is added to it changes that composition. When you eat a cheeseburger or a Three Musketeers bar, it changes your body chemistry. The kind of food you eat, the kind of air you breathe, can change your mental state. Does that mean you're 'drugged'? 
Sissy frames the flock with the hole in the center of her cheese sandwich. 
SISSY No, I guess not. 
JELLY 'Drugged' is a stupid word. 
SISSY But the peyote is obviously affecting their brains. It's made them break a migratory pattern that goes back thousands of years. 
DEBBIE The way I see it, is that the peyote mellowed them out. Made them less uptight. They were afraid of bad weather and humans. That's why they migrated and kept to themselves. But the peyote has enlightened them. It's taught them there is nothing to fear but fear itself. Now they're digging life and letting the bad vibes slide on. Don't worry, be happy. Be here now. 
SISSY Fear in wild animals is completely different from paranoia in people. In the wilderness ecosystem, fear is natural and necessary. It's merely a mechanism for maintaining life. If the cranes hadn't had a capacity for fear, they would have disappeared long ago and you'd be having to get loaded with common old everyday meadowlarks and mallards. 
JELLY This here discussion is destined to become academic. Because we've got less than half a bag of peyote buttons left and Delores's run ended up in the Mottburg jail. So any day now we'll get a chance to see how the whoopers behave when they come down, to see if the peyote experience really changed them or not. But in the meantime, I want to say this about fear..... 
Then Sissy and Jelly hear a news broadcast on the radio. 
ANNOUNCER Judge Greenfield, at the request of the ACLU, has granted a forty-eight- hour extension of the deadline by which the Rubber Rose cowgirls must comply with his order. Negotiations between the cowgirls and the government are expected to follow. Another item in, the forewoman of the Rubber Rose Ranch, a Delores del Ruby is now free on bond after having been arrested in Mottburg with more than fifty pounds of peyote buttons. Her bail has been paid by the owner of the besieged ranch, Countess Products, Inc. Miss del Ruby's bail having come from the tycoon's personal advisor, a certain Dr. Robbins of New York City. 
SISSY Dr. Robbins? 
EXT. PRAIRIE NIGHT 
Sissy and Jelly lie under the same stars, under the same blankets. Under the same spell. 
JELLY Every time I tell you that I love you, you flinch. But that's your problem. 
SISSY If I flinch when you say you love me, it's both our problems. My confusion becomes your confusion. Students confuse teachers, patients confuse psychiatrists, lovers with confused hearts confuse lovers with clear hearts.... 
EXT. CAMPFIRE NIGHT 
Delores and some of the other cowgirls are talking. A sharp wind is beginning to gust. 
DELORES It isn't for ourselves that we take this stand. It isn't for cowgirls. It's for all the daughters everywhere. This is an extremely important confrontation. This is womankind's chance to prove to her enemy that she's willing to fight and die. If we women don't show here and now that we aren't afraid to fight and die, then our enemy will never take us seriously. Men will always know that, no matter how strong our words and determined our deeds, there's a point where we'll back down and give them their way. 
Delores cracks her whip then parades around the campfire. 
DELORES I'm prepared to win! Victory for every female, living or dead, who's suffered the temporary defeats of masculine insensitivity to their inner lives! 
A few of the cowgirls cheer. 
DONNA I'll fight the bastards. 
VOICE As words such as sweetheart" and "honey britches" and "forever" and "always" burned away, the cowgirl squirted a few tears. Her eyes were so misty she forgot to burn the bag. 
INT. BUNKHOUSE NIGHT 
Sissy is sobbing. 
Big Red offers a piece of homemade fudge and shows no surprise when Sissy refuses it. 
Kym kisses the lips quickly of the despondent Cowgirl, and the bunkhouse lights go out. 
Delores plunks a carefree song on an old Gibson, looks up at the moon. 
DELORES You know, podner, you can tune a guitar but you can't tuna fish. 
She plunks a few notes. 
DELORES God, but it's good to be a cowgirl. 
And the bunkhouse lights are turned off. There are some giggles from the cowgirls. 
INT. MAIN BEDROOM RANCH DAY 
THE CHINK wakes up and is being cared for by Sissy. He is in pain, but winking. 
SISSY Is everything getting worse? 
CHINK Yes, everything is getting worse. But everything is also getting better. 
SISSY The Countess has come to our aid. The Rubber Rose Ranch is officially deeded to all the cowgirls. And I have been asked to oversee the ranch. For $300 a week. And as it turns out, the Countess is not going to be the vegetable the doctors thought he was... here's a picture! 
Sissy shows a picture of the Countess recovering in a hospital bed, posing next to Doctor Robbins. 
CHINK I want to go back to the Clock People. I kind of miss those fool redskins and wonder what they're up to. What's happened to Jelly? 
SISSY She had a one way-ticket to Kansas City. 
CHINK You mean she's dead? 
The Chink mourns a bit. 
SISSY But that's an old story now...... I can't believe that you would leave the Butte. 
CHINK Easy come, easy go. 
DELORES Wow, you sure have a way with words. 
The Chink looks over and sees that Delores is standing in the doorway. 
