EXCALIBUR 
Written by 
Rospo Pallenberg & John Boorman 
Adapted from "Le Morte D'Arthur" 
by 
Thomas Malory 
Final Draft 
FADE IN: 
EXT. FOREST - NIGHT 
Darkness. The sound of battle cries and the clang of metal upon metal. The forest lights up with huge sparks flying from sword and ax as armored knights hack and swing at each other. Mounted knights collide head-on at full gallop, their armor made incandescent in the clash. Sparks eddy in their wakes and float to the ground. The forest catches fire. 
MAIN TITLES on the flames. Out of the sounds of ancient battle grows music, heroic and barbaric, shot through with melancholy. 
Two crazed eyes reflect the fire. The eyes belong to a man without age, at once ancient and boyish, female and male; his eyes are pained from the burden of too much knowledge. So close is he to the flames that a lock of his wild hair sizzles alight. He slaps at the fire as if it were an annoying insect. He wears a cloak of black trimmed with silver. It is Merlin. The wizard weaves a path through the burning forest, dodging the combatants, searching. 
MERLIN Lord Uther! Lord Uther! 
The forest around him weeps softly with the sounds that follow slaughter. Patches of undergrowth are smoldering. Small flames lick bark and branches. 
Smoke floats through the trees and hovers over the bodies of the dying and the dead. 
A huge knight reins up beside Merlin on a lathered horse. His armor is blood spattered. He is weary from battle. He looks down at Merlin, his countenance fierce. The blade of his sword glows with an unnatural aura. 
MERLIN It's done. A truce. We meet at the river. 
UTHER (disgusted) Talk. Lovers murmuring to each other... 
EXT. RIVER, FOREST - DAY 
Waiting on one bank of a small river that flows through the forest is a warlord, the Duke of Cornwall. He is flanked by his armored warriors. Lot of Lowthean prominent among them. They are battle-weary and bloodied, but they look ready to fight. Behind them is an army of lesser knights. 
To the opposite bank come Uther and Merlin, a much smaller force of knights, including Uryens, Lord of Gore, surrounding them. 
DUKE OF CORNWALL I spit on your truce, Uther. If you want peace, throw down your swords. 
Uther and the Duke of Cornwall glare at each other in silence across the river. Uther strains forward, burning with anger; but Merlin restrains him. 
UTHER I should butcher all and every one of them. Merlin, what is this wagging of tongues? 
MERLIN Just show the sword. 
Uther unsheathes his mighty sword, and brandishes it in the air high over his head. The blade hums disquietingly and leaves a lingering electric hue upon the air. The marvel instills dread in all present. 
MERLIN (waxing eloquent) Behold the sword of power, Excalibur. Before Uther, it belonged to Lud, before Lud, to Beowulf, before Beowulf to Baldur the Good, before Baldur to Thor himself and that was when the world was young and there were more than seven colors in the rainbow. (and in an aside to Uther) Speak the words. 
UTHER (bellowing) One land, one king! That is my peace! 
The Duke of Cornwall looks around nervously as some of his knights fall to their knees in awe. 
DUKE OF CORNWALL Lord Uther, if I yield to the sword of power, what will you yield? 
UTHER Me, yield!? 
Merlin urges Uther hard. 
MERLIN (a whisper) He has given. Now you must. 
The two knights glare at each other, rage contending with anger. 
UTHER The land from here to the sea is yours if you will enforce the King's will. 
The enemies lock eyes and Merlin watches anxiously. 
DUKE OF CORNWALL Done! 
HAG --I heard. I have come. I am also Merlin. 
The figure straightens, the filthy rags become a flowing cape, and the hair is swept back by the wind, andóit is Merlin, laughing. 
MERLIN I have walked my way since the beginning of time. Sometimes I give, sometimes I take. It is mine to know which, and when. 
UTHER (exploding) Dumb riddles, Merlin. I am your King. 
Ulfius edges away. 
MERLIN I know the storm inside you, and what it has wrought. The alliance I forged is wrecked. 
The Duke of Cornwall under siege. All this for lust. Selfish lust. 
Uther grabs Merlin. 
UTHER For Igrayne. One night with her. Do it. Use the magic. 
Merlin frowns pensively, his gaze searching strange distances and wandering; then focusing, blazing straight at Uther. 
MERLIN You will swear by your true kingship to grant me what I wish. Then you shall have it. 
Uther kneels and draws his sword and holds it up by the blade, a cross. 
UTHER I swear it. By Excalibur and the holy-- 
MERLIN --What issues from your lust will be mine. Swear it again. 
UTHER I swear it. 
Merlin looks down sorrowfully at the kneeling King. 
EXT. BATTLEMENTS, TINTAGEL CASTLE - EVENING 
The Duke of Cornwall watches a force of armored knights riding forth from Uther's war camp, with banners flying. It passes beneath the castle and on toward a distant cliff. 
DUKE OF CORNWALL (to a lieutenant) It's Uther and all his best knights. He leaves behind little more than fledglings to guard his camp. 
His eyes are as cold and as pale as ice. 
EXT. CLIFF ABOVE THE SEA - TWILIGHT 
Uther and his knights, and Merlin on a mule, ride to the high promontory and dismount. Here, overlooking the sea, is a circle of ancient stones, carved with strange runes and hieroglyphics, and as the wind moves through them it moans and sighs. 
The knights watch as Merlin and Uther, leading his horse, walk toward the stones. Merlin strides into the circle, turning to look at Uther, who hesitates. 
MERLIN Come. 
Uther starts to make the sign of the cross, but Merlin halts him with a gesture. Uther's hand drops, and he enters the circle with his horse. 
Merlin and Uther look out across the sea, to Tintagel Castle high upon the cliff. 
Merlin solemnly raises his arms toward that distant castle, and chants in an ancient language, the sounds of which he marries to the roaring and whining of the wind. The wind becomes stronger, and Merlin's incantations become more intense, and the wind in turn becomes wilder still. Until Merlin is charged with a fierce, nonhuman power, as the wind buffets his slight frame. 
And then, for all to understand: 
MERLIN I hold the balance of all things in my summoning. Arise mists. Come fog. 
EXT. VISTA FROM THE CLIFF - TINTAGLE CASTLE - TWILIGHT 
From the horizon a front of fog advances toward the castle to envelop it, and continues across the gulf to the circle of stones. 
EXT. GATE, TINTAGLE CASTLE - TWILIGHT 
The portal opens and a small force of armored men, led by the Duke of Cornwall, exits. A fog is thickening all around them. 
EXT. CLIFF ABOVE THE SEA - TWILIGHT 
The advancing front envelops Merlin and Uther, eddying around the stones.  All else is obliterated. 
MERLIN Mount your horse. 
The King does. 
He lifts himself up on his staff. He stands in the midst of the ancient stones, bristling with excitement. Uther's mighty knights are asleep, a deep unnatural sleep, huddled together and surrounded by their horses. And then Merlin swoons, collapsing to the ground. 
INT. HALL, TINTAGEL CASTLE - DAWN 
His lieutenants deposit the Duke of Cornwall's bloodless body upon the long table. His eyes are wide open, icy and cunning even in death. The ladies of the castle support and comfort the grief-stricken Igrayne as she approaches the body of her husband. Morgana hangs onto her mother's gown. 
IGRAYNE When did it happen? Where? 
LIEUTENANT In the camp of Uther, my lady, just after nightfall. 
IGRAYNE It can't be. He came to me, to his bed, last night. 
LADY It was his spirit, yearning for you in his hour of death, that visited you. 
IGRAYNE His spirit? 
Pale with grief, Igrayne stares at her dead husband in silence. 
Then her hand drifts to her stomach. When she talks again, undone and resolved, it is to all and herself: 
IGRAYNE Tintagel Castle falls to Uther. But what shall become of me, and the child I bear? 
Morgana shows no distress. She runs her baby hands across her father's face and closes his eyes. The intensity that was frozen in them is now added to her own pale and cunning eyes. 
EXT. CLIFF ABOVE THE SEA - DAY 
Merlin has been propped up against one of the stones. He is in a deep trance and Uther is attempting to shake him awake. 
UTHER I want her, Merlin. I cannot be without her. Tintagel is mine. Can I take her now? Tell me! 
Merlin's eyes open but he sees nothing, and only a puzzling squeal issues from him. 
INT. IGRAYNE'S BEDCHAMBER, TINTAGEL CASTLE- EVENING 
Morgana watches from a corner. The ladies of the castle surround Igrayne who is giving birth. 
Noisy crows alight on the windowsill. Only Morgana notices. 
INT. PASSAGEWAY, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT 
Uther strides to Igrayne's bedchamber, his warrior knights following. He is dirty and his iron dress is blood-spattered. 
UTHER (bellowing) Three horses died under me, so hard did I spur them here. Is it born? Is it alive? 
INT. IGRAYNE'S BEDCHAMBER, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT 
At his approach and entrance the ladies shrink back, and Morgana edges closer to her mother, and seats herself on the bed beside her. Ingrain holds her newborn baby in her arms, the blood of birth still wet upon it. 
UTHER Out! 
The ladies slip past him to the door, and he goes up to Igrayne. 
UTHER What is it, lady? 
Terrified of him, Igrayne faces him the best she can. 
IGRAYNE A boy, sir. Rest yourself. 
Uther waves away her words but does sit down on the bed, exhausted. He notices Morgana, who stares at him. 
UTHER Send the girl away. 
IGRAYNE She is just a child - 
UTHER Out! 
Igrayne draws the child to her and kisses her cheek. 
IGRAYNE (whispering) Go now. Come back later. 
The child leaves silently, hatred in her eyes. 
UTHER She watches me with her father's eyes. 
As Merlin walks through the castle, the baby crying in his arms, the knights and ladies step back, afraid to intervene in royal matters. 
INT. HALL, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT. 
Merlin comes across the empty banquet hall, cooing to the baby, strangely pacifying him. Morgana steps out of the shadows in his path, and Merlin stops at the sight of the little girl, her pale eyes glaring at him. 
She speaks haltingly and clearly while far-off Igrayne cries out her distress. 
MORGANA Merlin, are you now the father, and the mother, of the baby? 
Staring at her, Merlin shudders and without answering he continues away, faster now, and into an unlit passageway, disappearing from sight a bit sooner than an ordinary mortal would have. 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
The forest is dark and shiny with rain. An unseen battle rages. 
The first combatant in sight is Uther, who swings the mighty Excalibur, cutting an attacker in half at the waist. Uther and a small force of knights, Ulfius among them, are retreating through the slippery wet forest, completely outnumbered. 
Lord Lot of Lowthean and Lord Uryens of Gore are the leaders of the attack. 
URYENS (to his men) The King's sword. I must have it. 
Ulfius and his men stand their ground so the King may escape the onslaught. They are hacked down. 
Uther flees alone, severing the limbs of any man and tree that stands in his way. 
EXT. STONE IN THE FOREST - DAY 
Uther has gained on his pursuers. He comes to a small clearing where the spine of a buried boulder rises through the forest floor. He stops upon it, breathing hard, dripping blood. He rages aloud, but his throat is raw and cracked and only a whisper comes out. 
UTHER Merlin, where are you? To weave a mist, to hide us... 
He hears his pursuers closing in. 
UTHER No one shall have the sword. No one shall wield Excalibur but me. 
He holds it by the hilt with both hands, the blade pointing to the ground of stone. He flexes his knees. He lifts up his hands above his head. And with all the strength that rage and pain can muster, and more, he drives the blade of Excalibur into the stone, nearly to the hilt. His mouth widens in an awful silent scream, and then the foam of saliva pink with blood issues from deep within him, so violent was his effort. 
As the sword cuts into the rock, the earth shudders. 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
The forest quakes. The knights searching for Uther halt in fear. 
EXT. FIELDS, WOODS - DAY 
And far away, a caped figure is crossing a field toward a wood, when the earth shakes, stirring animals and birds. The man turns. He is Merlin, the two day-old baby peeking from his cape. Merlin is amazed at the phenomenon, he puts his ear to a rock protruding from the earth. 
MERLIN Into the spine of the dragon! (and then he is saddened) Uther... I loved you, mighty child. 
And tears welling, and giggling at the same time, he whisks away into the woods. 
EXT. STONE IN THE FOREST - DAY 
Uther staggers away, colliding with trees, staggering, crashing to the ground. Until the only life left in him is the coursing of his blood, flowing from his gaping mouth onto the leaves on the forest floor. 
The enemy knights advance through the trees. They prod at the fallen leviathan, they roll him over to get at his scabbard. Only then do they see the sword in the stone, and they stop, amazed and afraid. Their captains appear. Uryens sees what they are staring at, and races to the sword and attempts to pull it out. 
He strains with all his might, but it is immovable. 
LOT Let me. 
He shoves Uryens aside, but he can't loosen the sword either, and he rages with frustration. 
FADE OUT: 
LEGEND APPEARS: 
"Fifteen years passed and the land was without a king." 
FADE IN: 
EXT. FIELDS - DAY 
SIR KAY Father, I'll go and see what's keeping him. 
EXT. THE SWORD IN THE STONE - DAY 
Arthur stops at the edge of the dark forest, totally dejected, when he sees the sword in the stone. He walks up to it, his face lighting up, brimming with innocence. He is alone, as everyone has returned to the jousting ground. 
ARTHUR If only Kay could have it... 
He smiles, forgetting his troubles, a boy again living in a fairy tale. He grasps the sword by the hilt and it comes away easily from its stone lock. 
Not expecting it to, he nearly falls. He stares at it, terribly excited and surprised: he tucks it under his arm and rushes back. 
EXT. TENTS - DAY 
He bumps into Kay. 
ARTHUR (breathless) Your sword was stolen, Kay, but here is Excalibur. Is it too late? I hurried-- 
Kay takes it. He cannot believe what he's holding in his hands. He starts to talk but he is so agitated he can only stutter. 
EXT. JOUSTING GROUND - DAY 
Kay, with Arthur in tow, rushes to Sir Ector and shows him the sword; he trembles with excitement. 
SIR KAY Look, Father. Excalibur. Does that mean that I am to be king? 
Sir Ector is dumbstruck. 
SIR ECTOR Did you free the sword, boy? 
SIR KAY I... did, Father. 
Ector looks at his son amazed, wanting to believe but not able to. 
SIR ECTOR We must go to the stone at once. 
With Excalibur in hand Ector of Morven heads for the stone, Kay following, and Arthur too, the boy flushed with excitement but a little worried, not understanding what is happening. 
The exchange between Sir Ector and Sir Kay has been overheard. Some have seen the sword in Sir Ector's hand. Rumor spreads like wildfire. 
EXT. THE SWORD IN THE STONE - DAY 
As Sir Ector ascends the stone, from all parts of the jousting ground knights and squires, the Bishop and the clerics, and peasants too, press around. 
Ector lowers the blade into the tight cleft and Excalibur sinks to its original position. 
SIR ECTOR Draw it, son! 
Sir Kay grabs the hilt and pulls without conviction, and the sword doesn't give. Eyes downcast, he lets go. 
SIR KAY Sir, I didn't draw the sword. Arthur gave it to me. 
SIR ECTOR Arthur ?! (spinning around to face him) How did you get the sword, child? 
ARTHUR (frightened) Sir... Kay needed a sword. His was stolen. I saw Excalibur, and... I took it. 
SIR ECTOR You freed it, son? 
ARTHUR I did, Father. I beg your forgiveness. 
He starts to kneel but Ector pulls him up. 
SIR ECTOR Try the sword, Arthur. 
Arthur is about to grasp the hilt when Uryens and Lot, and other nobles, Leondegrance of Camelyarde, and Sir Caradoc and Sir Turquine among the younger, stride up. 
URYENS Stand back, Sir Ector, and take your children. 
LOT We will try again. 
Uryens, Lot, Leondegrance, Caradoc, Turquine - each in turn grapples with the sword, only to be defeated by its immobility. The crowd around the stone is thickening with common folk. 
SIR ECTOR Let the boy try the sword. 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
Arthur charges through the shadowy forest. He is in armor, but it is only a light tunic of mail. Excalibur is sheathed in a leather scabbard by his side. He is frantic and he calls urgently. 
ARTHUR ...Merlin... Merlin... 
His face shines with sweat, the horse is lathered. He dismounts and continues on foot into denser, more tangled undergrowth. 
ARTHUR Merlin! 
A huge eye opens in the foreground of what had appeared to be shadow, bark and tufts of weeds is really Merlin's head. 
MERLIN You called, sir? 
His voice is thin as he is awakening from a deep, exhausted sleep. Arthur finds him lying within the large gnarled roots of a great tree. The boy kneels before Merlin and lifts his hands and kisses them. 
ARTHUR You saved me from the arrow... 
MERLIN (a flicker of mischief) But not from your destiny. 
ARTHUR I want to thank you. 
MERLIN That's not why you came. 
Arthur blurts it out: 
ARTHUR Merlin, help me. I need your help. I don't know how-- 
MERLIN (irritated) 'Help me, Help me.' Help me get up. 
Arthur helps Merlin up and the wizard stands unsteadily. 
MERLIN I'm tired. Doing magic takes its toll, you know. My arms ache terribly... (he makes flying movements with his arms and grimaces) Once--or is it yet to happen--I stood exposed to the Dragon's breath so that a man could lie one night with a woman. It took me ten moons to recover. I'm sure that story would interest you, since... Well, we'll have to talk about it another time. You're too busy now. 
The forest groans and creaks, alive with murmurs and shrill calls. 
MERLIN It is whispered in the forest that... (he cups his ear with exaggeration) ...Leondegrance's castle is under siege by Lot and Uryens. 
ARTHUR (pressing) Yes, yes, I know that. Everybody does. Lord Leondegrance is my only ally among the barons and the great knights. I can't lose him. 
MERLIN Well there. You don't need me half as much as you think you do. You already know what must not happen. 
ARTHUR (exasperated) I must find the means to save him, then. I was hoping I could ask you for a little magic help, but if it makes you so tired... 
MERLIN Thank you. 
Silence. Arthur tries again. 
ARTHUR It's just that I have no experience, and no men to speak of. How can I-- 
MERLIN (suddenly fierce) Because you must! You and only you. Have you forgotten that it was you who freed Excalibur? 
Just as suddenly, he is his amused, ironic self again. 
MERLIN Besides, it will be a good lesson. (giggling) The best, if it's not the last. 
Arthur bows his head, confused and almost defeated. Merlin steals a look at him, and puts his arm around the boy. 
MERLIN Maybe you'd like to meet the power that gave you the sword? 
He enjoys being cryptic. 
ARTHUR How? Where? 
MERLIN In the great book. 
ARTHUR What book is that? 
MERLIN (melodramatic) The book without pages. Open before you, all around us. You can see it in bits and pieces, for if mortal men were to see it whole and all complete in a single glance, why, it would burn him to cinders. 
ARTHUR What?! 
EXT. FOREST AND ELSEWHERE - DAY AND NIGHT 
ARTHUR What's in them? 
She takes a cake and bites into it. 
GUENEVERE It is an ancient mixture, containing only soft, unborn grains, and flavored with roses. The rest is secret. 
Guenevere offers one to Arthur, and he hesitates, looking at it. 
MERLIN Looking at the cake is like looking at the future. Until you have savored its bitterness and its sweetness, its texture and its perfume, what do you really know? And then, of course, it will he too late. 
Arthur bites into the cake, and Guenevere looks deep into his eyes. 
MERLIN Too late... 
FADE OUT: 
A LEGEND APPEARS: 
"...but for years war kept Arthur from thoughts of marriage." 
FADE IN: 
EXT. OAK FOREST - DAY 
War tents have been pitched beneath the majestic trees. Near the banner of the Dragon a doe grazes. Arthur is older, in battle-scarred plate armor, pacing and angry. He is watched by his wounded and bruised knights--Kay, Uryens, Lot, Leondegrance, Caradoc, and some new young faces among the ranks. No one talks. 
The harsh clank of its battle trappings announces the arrival of a horse. All eyes watch it walk into the camp. A knight is slouched in the saddle. 
Arthur runs to meet the horse, followed by squires and some of the knights. 
He eases the rider to the ground, unlaces his helmet. It is Sir Ector, and his hauberk is badly dented. Tears burn in Arthur's eyes. 
SIR ECTOR He is the mightiest and fairest of knights. 
ARTHUR We fought and won battles, and now one man defeats all my knights? I will go. 
He pushes past the knights and goes to his horse. Kay steps in front of him. 
SIR KAY A king must not engage in single contest. I'll go again. 
Arthur rises into the saddle and takes a jousting spear from the rack. 
ARTHUR Where is Merlin? 
The squires are silent. 
Arthur gallops off in the direction Sir Ector came from. His knights are afraid for him. 
EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY 
His countenance grim, Arthur gallops along a trail bordering a plowed field when in it a scarecrow moves. It starts to run as stick-wielding farmers pursue it. It is Merlin. Arthur turns off into the field, and at the sight of an armored knight on a war horse, the farmers turn and flee. Merlin stops to catch his breath. 
ARTHUR (angry) I should have left you to fend for yourself. 
MERLIN I had to weave a little enchantment on the bees so I could get some honey, and I didn't feel up to using any more magic just yet. Anyway, I was in less danger than you'll be in today. 
Arthur's hand is clenched tight around Excalibur's hilt. 
ARTHUR So you were stealing their honey. They should have killed you. 
MERLIN Come now. So much anger for such a little crime? Are you sure there is nothing else troubling you? 
ARTHUR You know full well there is, and I go to meet it now. Come witness my revenge. 
He offers his arm and Merlin hoists himself up behind the King. 
EXT. GORGE THROUGH THE HILLS - DAY 
A waterfall cascades into a pool. The spray casts a rainbow. Beneath it is a colorful confusion of flowers and budding trees, a place dreamlike in its beauty. 
Arthur, with Merlin behind, gallops along the edge of the pool. The trail widens into a field of grass. Arthur reins beside a pile of broken lances and twisted shields. Across the field, pitched upon the trail is a war tent made of diaphanous white silk, a sky blue banner above it. Merlin slides off and Arthur continues. 
From the tent, a knight with jousting lance rides forward to meet him. His armor is so shiny it is a mirror. His eyes, seen through the open visor, seem to laugh. His speech is foreign, from across the sea. He is Lancelot of the Lake. 
Then Arthur sees something that startles him. Beneath the surface, suspended in the blue-green water amid the dancing weeds, he sees Excalibur, intact. 
It is held by a maiden in flowing gown the color of water, her long hair rippling across her face, obscuring it. 
ARTHUR Excalibur! Is it true? 
MERLIN The Lady of the Lake. Take it. Take it, quickly! 
Arthur dips his hand under the water and grasps the hilt and the moment he does the vision in the blue-green water fades. He rises with Excalibur in hand, and Merlin speaks before Arthur can ask the question. 
MERLIN There are infinite worlds within the infinite coils of the Dragon. In one of them, which I have not traveled, the sword was forged. I only know that the King is returned to us through the instrument of his power. The game continues! 
And he laughs. 
Just then Lancelot stirs. Arthur rushes to his side. He loosens his helmet and removes it, uncovering damp curls. The young knight's eyes open, and his laughing charm once more animates his face. 
ARTHUR Thanks to God, you are alive. 
LANCELOT (sitting up) I, the best knight in the world, bested! This is a great day, for my search is over. I love you, my King. 
He embraces Arthur, who is overwhelmed by his childlike directness. The King helps him to his feet. 
ARTHUR You are still the best knight in Christiandom. You gained a hundred advantages over me. It is I who must love you, for through your courage and patience you taught me a bitter lesson. 
LANCELOT Then make me your champion and I will always fight in your place. 
ARTHUR But your life and lands are far from here. 
LANCELOT I gave up my castles and my lands! 
He thumps his breastplate. 
LANCELOT My domain is here, inside this metal skin. And I would pledge to you all that I still own: muscle, bone, blood and the heart that pumps it. 
ARTHUR And a great heart it is. Sir Lancelot, you will be my champion. 
Lancelot draws his sword, holding it by the blade, a crucifix. 
LANCELOT In the name of Jesus Christ and His holy blood, I swear eternal faith to Arthur, King. 
They embrace, and Merlin watches. 
EXT. ARTHUR'S WAR CAMP - NIGHT 
Converging from different directions parties of mounted knights enter the war camp. Lancelot among them. They dismount, battle-weary and burning with the excitement of victory. They quench their huge thirst from buckets carried by squires. They rip off hunks of meat from carcasses sizzling on spits over a roaring fire. And they join the throng of knights, where stories of deeds of arms of the day are enthusiastically exchanged. 
A great number of knights are packed tightly around King Arthur, each man anxious to tell of his victories. One of them has the King's attention. 
KNIGHT ...We killed every one of them. Burnt their ship... 
Arthur sees Lancelot in the throng and moves toward him. Merlin follows Arthur and is pushed and knocked around in the crush of spikes and iron. The only unarmored man in the crowd, he glares at the excited knights irritably. 
ARTHUR Lancelot, how did you fare in the North? 
LANCELOT We spared the lives of a few, so they could sail home and tell their fellows what fate they met at the hands of King Arthur's knights... 
Arthur turns toward Uryens. 
ARTHUR And you, Uryens? 
URYENS Victory! 
ARTHUR Lot, and you? 
LOT We drove the invaders into the sea. 
ARTHUR You, Gawain, the East? 
GAWAIN The East is ours again. 
Cheers greet each declaration. 
ARTHUR The war is over. One land, one King. Peace. 
Lancelot wheels his horse around. 
LANCELOT I hear the stifled cry for help, I smell the reek of fear... 
With a shout the knight and his men draw their swords and rush Lancelot. He reins in his horse, causing it to rear and break their attack. He slides off, falling on his feet with sword drawn, already fighting. In an extraordinary show of sword play he cuts down six men. 
INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY 
Hearing Lancelot storm in, the man holding the child hands her to a woman and kneels before the altar, just as Lancelot bursts into the room, sword high and already swooping down on the man's neck. Lancelot brings the sword to a halt mid- air, his fury held in check. The repent man is spared. The woman kneels to kiss Lancelot's hand. 
EXT. SITE OF THE SWORD IN THE STONE - DAY 
The field is pitched with war tents and pavilions decked for holiday. Nobles and knights flank the King and Guenevere, a beautiful vision in white samite, a wreath of flowers around her head. Lancelot leads a long file of prisoners to the King. They fall to their knees, begging forgiveness; among them is the man whom Lancelot had spared before the altar. 
LANCELOT These men repented before God for their evil deeds. Those who would not, met their fate at the end of my sword. (he kneels) Accept the fruit of my first quest as my wedding gift. 
ARTHUR I do. Rise, Lancelot, come with me. 
He rises and follows Arthur and Guenevere into the central pavilion. Pages draw its curtains closed as they pass inside. 
INT. PAVILION - DAY 
Guenevere is surrounded by a group of ladies and maids who fuss over her dress and her hair. They eye the great knight and whisper about him, Guenevere laughing with them. 
Arthur sits, excited and happy. 
ARTHUR Sit beside me, Lancelot. 
Lancelot sits, stiff and upright. 
ARTHUR Your deeds set an example for all other knights. For your gift, ask a gift of me. 
LANCELOT Only give me leave to ride out again, to do what I am most able to do, and happiest doing. 
Guenevere overhears. She approaches and Lancelot jumps to his feet. 
GUENEVERE (to Arthur) He must stay for the feasting days of our wedding, and tell his deeds himself. 
ARTHUR (to Lancelot, smiling) I grant you your wish if you grant Lady Guenevere hers. 
LANCELOT I will stay Madame. 
Merlin leans close to Arthur. 
MERLIN The knights of Galys approach the camp. It would be politic... 
ARTHUR ...to ride out and meet them. 
He rises. Lancelot, who was about to sit again, straightens. 
ARTHUR I will ride with Sir Kay. Lancelot, rest here. 
GUENEVERE Don't start a war on my wedding day! 
ARTHUR Without Lancelot?! 
Arthur and Merlin exit, leaving Guenevere and Lancelot. She looks at him, lively and amused, and he can't help smiling. 
GUENEVERE Look Lancelot. The maids and ladies whisper about you. They all dream of winning you, young and old, fair and ugly. 
Lancelot blushes. 
GUENEVERE But surely that's no secret to you, dear Lancelot. You're the bravest and strongest knight they've ever seen, and beauty has kissed your brow. 
He can't look at her. 
GUENEVERE The well-kept secret is whether any of them has won your heart. 
LANCELOT No. 
GUENEVERE Why? 
LANCELOT I am a fighting man and I am married to the quest. That is enough. 
INT. CHAPEL - EVENING 
Arthur and Guenevere are radiant with joy, and Lancelot behind them mirrors the ceremony of their joining in his armor; and the sweet voices of the children fill the chapel as the Bishop pours the wine into the chalice, and lifts it up before him, blessing it. 
He turns to the royal couple. 
BISHOP Drink this the blood of Jesus Christ our Lord. 
The chalice seems to burn with a mystical light; and as the chorus soars: 
FADE OUT: 
A LEGEND APPEARS: 
"And Arthur built his castle, Camelot. And one day, in the far reaches of the Kingdom..." 
FADE IN: 
EXT. FOREST, STREAM - DAY 
It is shadowy and dark; ancient trees creak, unseen animals cry out. A rabbit hops into view and a boy leaps forward, grabbing the animal by the ears before it can move. He-- Perceval--is a wild boy of seventeen, dressed in skins with an endearing and childlike smile. 
PERCEVAL (to the rabbit) Sorry. Hungry. 
A din is heard to the forest, and it grows. Perceval glances around, panicked. The sound is the rubbing of leather upon leather, of metal on metal, for now a mounted figure in armor hovers over the terrified boy. 
PERCEVAL (stuttering) Have I taken too much? 
He lets the rabbit go free. The threatening figure dismounts. And Perceval, cartwheels backward, landing in the stream and scooping a fish out. 
PERCEVAL (desperately trying to ingratiate) I had rabbit yesterday. Today I'll eat fish... No? 
He returns the fish to the water. The figure steps into a pool of sunlight and a glorious halo streaks from the armor. It is Lancelot. 
LANCELOT Don't be afraid. 
Perceval is overcome with astonishment, and he kneels. 
PERCEVAL You're an angel! Not a devil... 
Lancelot laughs and pulls the boy to his feet. 
LANCELOT Just a man. A knight in the King's service. 
PERCEVAL You're a man?! (he reaches out to touch Lancelot) ...with metal skin! 
Perceval is beside himself with enthusiasm. 
PERCEVAL Can I grow metal skin? 
Lancelot rolls his eyes, amused. 
LANCELOT You've got a lot to learn. 
EXT. SPARSE FOREST - DAY 
Lancelot is cantering and Perceval is running alongside, shouting in gasps. 
PERCEVAL I'll learn... take me... to the King... What's a... King? 
Lancelot shakes his head and spurs the horse into a gallop. Perceval lengthens his stride, and keeps up! Lancelot reins to a halt. 
LANCELOT Very well. Climb up. 
PERCEVAL I will run. 
LANCELOT Listen, boy, it's more than twenty days from here. 
PERCEVAL Twenty days!? The world is that big? 
EXT. OUTSIDE CAMELOT, FOREST - DAY 
Perceval cannot believe his eyes. As Lancelot and Kay talk about him out of earshot, he sees things that he's never seen before; and he gapes like the country bumpkin that he is. 
LANCELOT It is deep... 
Arthur is about to rise to embrace him, but checks himself. 
ARTHUR You will be sorely missed. Heal yourself and come back. 
The exchange has become closely intimate, even though they stand apart and speak before everyone in the large hall. Lancelot leaves. Only Guenevere cannot watch. 
EXT. FOREST GLADE -DAY 
Water gurgles from a rock that is captive in the roots of an ancient oak. Lancelot, in armor, reclines against its trunk, the roots cradling him. He is perfectly still, drawing life from the vibrant, all-enfolding forest. 
Flower petals drift on the breeze. Trees sigh. Fox and rabbit, sparrow and hawk, at peace with each other, watch over the knight. 
EXT. FOREST -DAY 
A horse and rider tear through the thick undergrowth. It is Guenevere. The forest races past her as she gallops toward the glade, brambles tearing at her flesh and clothes. 
EXT. FOREST GLADE - DAY 
Lancelot gets to his feet, tense. Guenevere dismounts and approaches. She is flushed and breathless from the wild race. Her horse, left free, wanders over to his and grazes beside it. 
LANCELOT Why? You will destroy Arthur, and us... 
She moves closer and he thrusts out his mailed fist to keep her away. She clutches it and presses the metal to her soft tear-streaked cheek. 
LANCELOT The law forbids it. 
GUENEVERE Love demands it. 
Hungry with passion, she embraces the cold unmoving armor, kissing it. 
LANCELOT There are things about love-- 
GUENEVERE --Nothing! 
He steps back, drawing his sword. He holds it up by the blade between them. 
LANCELOT By my knight's sword, I swore faith-- 
And before he can finish she grabs the blade to push it aside. He holds it fast. Blood streams from her bare hands. He cannot prevail without cutting them deeply. He lets go of the sword, and she lets it fall to the ground. 
She embraces his still and defeated hulk. She kisses the metal, and sensation shoots through him, dizzying him. 
LANCELOT Guenevere... 
He folds her in his arm, and their bodies lock together as though a trap had sprung. Their mouths meet, each devouring the other... 
EXT. BATTLEMENTS, CAMELOT - DUSK 
Arthur and Merlin, the King desperate, the Wizard overwhelmed by compassion: 
ARTHUR I am alone and betrayed. By my wife, by my beloved friend, by my knights. And by you. Perhaps most of all by you. For you made me, you forged this wretched life. And like a child tired of a toy, you toss me aside, a babbling lecher trotting after my sister... 
MERLIN That is my destiny. I have a destiny, too... 
ARTHUR With all your powers, you are content to be ridiculed, laughed at... 
MERLIN My powers fade, Arthur. I resort to cheap tricks... (with sudden enthusiasm) Yes! I enjoy every moment of my foolishness, I join in the making of it, so no one can betray me. But you! You betray yourself. 
ARTHUR Me? I have lived by the oath of king and knight. 
MERLIN You betray the boy who drew the sword, the boy who saw the Dragon... the Dragon who moves close by, coiling and uncoiling, restless, looking down, waiting for the King to be a king... 
Arthur looks up and in the rolling clouds maybe, just maybe, the form of a dragon is taking shape. Arthur draws Excalibur, intensity animating his dead features. 
ARTHUR I must do it myself. I must kill them both. Lancelot and Guenevere. Will you ride with me, Merlin? 
MERLIN I cannot. I must not. Here I must stay. 
They embrace. Merlin is on the verge of tears, his face immediately sad and finally ancient. Arthur exits. 
Morgana, who has been watching from the shadows, watching from the shadows, slinks up to Merlin's side. 
MERLIN Happiness or horror. 
INT. CAVE BENEATH CAMELOT 
They pass through jaws of stalactites and stalagmites. Merlin cracks his staff whip-like and a ball of fire billows up from the tip and illuminates a cave wildly veined and filigreed with minerals and crusted with growths of crystals. The light goes out but the malachite and the gold, the quartz, diamond and beryllium burn dully. He turns to her, suddenly tall and unstooped, younger, sleek and evil. 
MERLIN In the folds of the earth where the forces that hold the world together are more alive, my power is strongest. Here I will possess you, as a man possesses a woman. And the god, the eunuch, the mule that I was, will be no more. 
He sweeps her up into his arms. 
MORGANA You are truly magnificent! 
MERLIN Flattery! Do you think I am ignorant of your stupid little games? Preying on you weakness of others. That's your power, a petty evil. Mine is great. Great plans. Impossible dreams. Laughable endings... 
He deposits her on bare rock. He kisses her. She pushes him away. 
MORGANA Merlin, the powers of Summoning, the true Name of the charms of Doing and Undoing. Show me! 
MERLIN I won't. You would misuse such power. I have paid enough for you, and I will have you. 
She leans forward and kisses his ear and whispers. 
MORGANA Make magic, my foolish wizard. For our love. Weave a marvelous room around us, a room worthy of our coupling. 
She draws closer, kissing him deeply. He breathes heavily. 
MERLIN What do you want? You must desire it for me to weave it. 
MORGANA Walls of shining crystals, burning with red fire, furnishings of metals and jewels never seen by man... 
Morgana falls silent as Merlin raises a hand, majestically intoning a harsh repetitive charm. The mineral veins of the cave begin to glow and fog seeps out from them enveloping the couple. 
MERLIN Desire it and it will be as you desire. 
Morgana burns with intensity. Merlin utters a formula and the fog coalesces around them into the shimmering presence of crystal walls, fountains raining jewels, flowers made of scented air, a bed of glass shot with light and covered with skins of animals dead before the time of man, goblets of ruby, tapestries woven of golden hair. She reaches out to touch the wall and her hand plunges through the unmaterialized illusion. 
MORGANA It's only a semblance. You disappoint me. 
She begins lacing up her loosened gown. 
MERLIN Don't touch the walls. Come close to me. 
She does, a mad hope in her eyes. She kisses his chest. 
MORGANA Do it, Merlin, the deepest secret. Fix it with the charm of Making, for our endless pleasure. 
He utters the ancient charm, Morgana listening closely, memorizing it. The illusion is all of a sudden solid. 
MERLIN For you... 
She runs her hand across the hard crystal surface, her eyes gleaming. 
From outside the wondrous room they can be seen to embrace. He carries her to the magical bed where he makes love to her, as they disappear from view in its effulgent light. 
She comes out through the crystal door, burning with evil intent. She turns to watch him asleep in the bed. 
She utters the charm of Summoning learnt from Merlin, and the room melts into an eddying carmine fog. Within it, Merlin struggles to awaken from the torpor of love, alarmed. 
Outside, Morgana utters the charm of Making and the gaseous mass begins to crystallize. 
Inside, Merlin is rising to his feet, breathing the red fog, his movements slowing to a standstill, his mouth opening in a scream of horror. 
The cloud has metamorphosed into a magnificent cluster of red crystals.  Morgana peers into its facets and there she sees, in fragments, Merlin's terror... an eye, the gaping mouth, a clawing hand--as he is entombed in the stone. She laughs in triumph. 
EXT. FOREST - CAMELOT - DAY 
Surrounded by forest, the spires and battlements of Camelot rise under black storm clouds. Arthur and Kay ride back to the castle. 
INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE - DAY 
The great hall is in gloom. Few knights are in attendance at the table. 
Some sleep off last night's wine. Arthur approaches, haggard, searching. 
INT. CHAPEL, CAMELOT - NIGHT. 
A bolt of lightening strikes the chalice, rocking the chapel, and Arthur is knocked back violently. 
Rain lashes in through the shattered window upon the terrified knights. They and the priest back away. Arthur is left alone. He rises and goes to the chalice, which is bent and cracked. He kneels before it. Steam hisses up as rain falls on it. 
INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE - DAY 
Sun streams in. Many of the knights are in attendance, in full armor. 
Ladies and pages watch from dark corners. Arthur addresses the fellowship. 
He holds the cracked chalice in his hands. He burns with a new-found fervor. 
ARTHUR Who will ride the labyrinths of the forest, to the very root of his soul, to the very ends of the earth, to find the secret that will redeem us from the evil that has fallen upon us, and make this chalice, and ourselves, whole again? 
Gawain rises and draws his sword in salute. 
SIR GAWAIN I will ride forth in the name of that quest, and commit my strength and my soul to it. 
Perceval, Kay and a few others draw their swords and touch their lips to the blades in oath. Sunbeams splash off their armor. 
PERCEVAL I will go. 
The rest of the fellowship draw their swords in imitation, but the resolution within them is not strong. Arthur comes forward to Gawain. 
ARTHUR Gawain, a dreadful fear is upon me, that we may never meet again, that the fellowship will be no more... 
He embraces Gawain, tears in his eyes. He turns to Perceval, and Perceval kneels. 
PERCEVAL We will find the secret or die. 
Arthur kisses the young knight's brow. Then he turns to Kay. 
ARTHUR Kay, I know your heart yearns to go, but I am prisoner to my duties, and you must be to yours, at my side. 
Arthur and Kay watch the knights file out till the hall is empty, the harsh song of their armor growing distant. 
FADE OUT: 
A LEGEND APPEARS: 
"For nine years they searched. Morgana's power grew in the land." 
FADE IN: 
EXT. SNOWSCAPE - DAY 
Under a leaden sky, Gawain drives his horse through swirling snow. He comes upon a mounted knight who is frozen in his tracks. He brushes the snow from the man's face. The frozen features belong to Caradoc. He slowly continues on his way. 
EXT. DEAD FOREST - DAY 
Dangling from the branches of a dead tree are a dozen dead knights of the Round Table, crows pecking at the rotting flesh in the chinks of armor. Perceval rides up, cries out in horror, and spurs his horse away. 
EXT. MOORS - DAY 
The rotting carcasses of sheep. The crops blackened and withered on the stalk. Hungry peasants head for a distant hill. 
EXT, HILLSIDE, MOORS - DAY 
A giant head has been carved out of an outcrop of rock, its stone mouth gaping toward the sky. 
People are congregated around the mouth. Peasants and farmers, they are wild with excitement, responding to drums throbbing and bagpipes wailing. 
They watch Morgana, who is surrounded by knights in dark armor. At her side is an angelic boy of eight, his eyes cold as his mother's. Morgana is more beautiful than ever, in flowing druidic robes, the gossamer silk clinging to her sweat-drenched body. 
She is standing by the deep hole which forms the giant's open mouth. It is covered by a tooth-like grating acting as a drain for the blood of human sacrifices made there. Before her is Gawain, chained and struggling against five strong men who hold him. Morgana lifts a dagger and plunges it into Gawain's chest. The fountain of blood that gushes from the great knight's body drives the crowd into a frenzy. 
MORGANA (intoning) The blood of this knight will feed the god in the earth, he is weak with hunger, and he will be made strong by this blood. Then he will plant his seed, and the land will be fertile once again. 
Gawain, his blood flowing from him and into the giant's mouth, looks up in anguish. His bellowing voice is echoed and amplified by the hollow beneath the drain. 
GAWAIN Arthur, forgive me. I die without the secret. I have failed. 
It is very dark and Perceval has to feel his way. 
He comes to the edge of a stream. He kneels to drink, and the horse drinks beside him. Then he rests back on his heels, brooding, too tired to rise. 
He lowers his eyes, staring into the dark water, defeated, empty. 
Before him in the water a long thin bar of light appears. He looks at it amazed. Voices are heard singing very far away. He reaches out to touch the long strip of light but his hand just disturbs the water. It is a reflection. The strip grows wider and the ethereal music is closer. 
Perceval looks up. The strip of light is before him, suspended, thirty feet above. It continues to grow wider. A drawbridge is being slowly lowered, allowing a powerful light to escape from within. 
Perceval is terrified. In pain, he slowly rises into the saddle, ready to gallop off; but fascinated, hypnotized by the sight, he cannot, and he stays and watches. 
The dim outline of a castle becomes visible as the drawbridge is lowered across the water to the ground at his feet. At the center of the blast of light coming from the castle, Perceval can make out a burning chalice. The music swells to a terrifying pitch, searing the forest. 
EXT. ENTRANCE TO CASTLE - NIGHT 
At the sight of the chalice, Perceval masters his fear. Bathed in light and music, he spurs the horse forward onto the drawbridge. 
Once he is on it, the bridge begins to rise. Unsure of its footing and blinded by the light, the horse becomes skittish, and Perceval has to struggle to control it. He dismounts to lead it, but the horse is terrified, rears up and jumps off the bridge, which continues to rise, drawn up by unseen hands. 
Perceval hesitates, then advances down the sloping drawbridge into the castle courtyard. All details are bleached out by the blinding light. The chalice appears suspended in space, and now the figure of a man can be glimpsed standing behind it. 
Enchanting music from unseen singers grows and weaves. Perceval looks back to see the drawbridge slowly closing, trapping him inside. 
He approaches the figure, his courage ebbing. Hands cupping the chalice, it speaks to him. 
FIGURE What is the secret of the chalice? Who does it serve? 
Perceval doesn't understand. He glances back again. The drawbridge is nearly closed. Terror seizes him. 
Panicked, puzzled, baffled, he backs away. He scrambles up the drawbridge desperate to reach the top before it closes. He claws his way up till his hand grasps the top. He heaves himself through the narrow closing slit which is about to crush him. He screams, and with a final effort he wriggles free and topples over crashing into the water below. 
EXT. DEAD FOREST AND STREAM - NIGHT 
He looks up. The drawbridge thunders shut, the last thin strip of light disappearing; and now he is surrounded only by the silence of the forest. 
Where there was a castle, now there is darkness. Perceval wades through the water. He has crossed the stream and all he can see and feel are tree trunks. The castle has disappeared. He is utterly defeated. 
PERCEVAL The chalice. The secret was in my grasp. I let it slip, afraid for myself. A question was asked. I didn't understand. I didn't try. I failed... 
FADE OUT: 
A LEGEND APPEARS: 
"Nine years passed." 
FADE IN: 
INT. CAVE BENEATH CAMELOT. 
Dripping water is steadily encrusting the crystal with limestone. 
INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE, CAMELOT - DAY 
Dead knights lay on biers. The once glorious seat of power is falling into decay. Few are in attendance around the table. Agitated, Kay enters and goes to Arthur, who is worn and haggard, and aged. 
KAY Your son Mordred is at the gate. 
Arthur comes alive. 
ARTHUR At last... 
KAY Don't recognize him. You were trapped by Morgana's sorcery. 
ARTHUR (staring off) ...Gawain and Perceval, Bors and Bohort, Caradoc and Ector, and all the others--lost to me. Only the echo of their voices remains in this empty hall. All I have left is the memory of their fellowship. Echoes and memories. I am a ghost of the King that once was... (he turns to Kay and with sudden harshness) ...Mordred is real, alive, my own flesh and blood. I will see him, I must. 
EXT. GATE, INSIDE AND OUTSIDE CAMELOT - DAY 
The drawbridge lowers slowly, and Arthur moves away from Kay and the other knights, and advances across it. 
Rooks wheel over the dead trees of the forest that surrounds Camelot. A group of armed men waits at the edge of the forest. One steps forward, a huge knight in black armor, the metal defining and exaggerating the powerful musculature of his body. He is Mordred, a young man of eighteen, and of extraordinary beauty. A page follows ten steps behind him bearing an enormous spear, its points hooded. Arthur stops at the edge of the drawbridge, the huge knight a few steps from him. Kay, ready for anything, moves halfway across the drawbridge. 
Mordred kneels on one knee. 
EXT. CASTLE GATE - NIGHT 
He steps onto the bridge and walks in. He crosses the courtyard as the drawbridge closes behind him. All details of the castle are bleached out by the searing light. 
EXT. CASTLE GATE - NIGHT 
He steps onto the bridge and walks in. He crosses the courtyard as the drawbridge closes behind him. All details of the castle are bleached out by the searing light. 
INT. CASTLE, VARIOUS 
Heading for the source of the light he ascends what seem to be a staircase. He enters a hall where the chalice stands suspended, burning with light, and the mysterious music swirls and grows. 
Perceval approaches the diaphanous and featureless Figure who stands over the chalice. 
FIGURE Who does it serve? 
PERCEVAL You, my lord. 
FIGURE I have waited long for you. Once you almost saw, but fear blinded you. Why am I served from the chalice? 
PERCEVAL Because you and the land are one. 
FIGURE I am wasting away and I cannot die. And I cannot live. 
PERCEVAL You and the land are one. Drink from the chalice. You will be reborn and the land with you. 
Perceval cups his hands around the chalice to lift it. But they close on nothing, and he draws back. The Figure's hands, although insubstantial, grasp Perceval's and appear to hold his hands around the cup. 
FIGURE But who am I? 
Perceval begins to kneel. 
PERCEVAL You are my lord and King. You are Arthur. 
The blinding light vanishes, the music drifts away. 
INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE - NIGHT 
Perceval falls to his knees before Arthur and he holds the chalice, now whole again, up to the King. It fills with blood from within and Arthur takes it from Perceval. He drinks. And having done so, he seems to become younger and to grow in strength. 
ARTHUR I didn't know how empty was my soul until it was filled. 
Sir Kay stands by the vast fireplace where a small fire burns, and only now looks up and is aware of Perceval. 
KAY Perceval, you have returned! 
ARTHUR Ready my knights for battle; they will ride with their King once more. I have lived through others far too long! Lancelot carried my honor and Guenevere my guilt. My knights have fought my causes. Mordred carries my sins. Now, at last, I will rule. 
EXT. WOODS AND FIELDS - NIGHT 
Arthur at the head of a small force of knights, their armor shining beneath the moon, gallops through the land. Where hooves thunder, the ground becomes alive with sprouts and tendrils, and bare trees start to bud, and grasses to blossom, the power of Nature exploding into life. 
INT. CONVENT - DAWN 
An old nun approaches the doors, upon which someone is pounding loudly. She opens the peephole. It is Arthur. 
NUN Go away. No man is allowed beyond these doors. 
ARTHUR I am Arthur. 
The old nun is amazed and starts pushing open the many bolts, mumbling and agitated. 
INT. CONVENT COURTYARD - DAWN 
She leads the King, his footsteps ringing in the silent cloister, past the doors to the cells. His armor is wet with dew and it shines with a dull and deep luster. Nuns whisper at his transit. She opens the door to a cell and Arthur steps inside. 
INT. CELL - DAWN 
Candles flicker on a small altar before which a nun is praying. She turns to see who has entered. It is Guenevere, older, thin with self-denial, all the more beautiful. She looks up at the majestic figure who stands before her. She nearly swoons. He helps her to her feet, and words rush from deep within him. 
ARTHUR Guenevere, accept my forgiveness, and put your heart to rest. We have suffered to long. I have always loved you, and I still love you. 
She weeps. 
MERLIN I know. I have heard noises and echoes through the stones... 
ARTHUR What is this place, Merlin? 
MERLIN It is like a tree. The roots of the stones spread out across the land and they draw on the thoughts and actions of men. Like sap those human matters course through the stones feeding the stars that are the leaves of the tree. And the stars whisper back to men the future course of events. (becoming passionate) But the earth is being torn apart, its metals stolen, and the balance is broken and the lines of power no longer converge. In fact, I nearly didn't make it in one piece. 
He limps affectedly and stretches with exaggerated pain. 
MERLIN But, I'm here. 
ARTHUR Where have you been these many years? Is it true that Morgana-- 
MERLIN --Stories... You brought me back. Your love brought me back. Back to where you are now, in the land of dreams... 
ARTHUR Is this a dream? Tell me, Merlin! 
Merlin smiles, turns and leaves, heading for Arthur's camp, giggling. Arthur starts off after him and awakens from the dream when he walks into one of the stones. It takes him a moment to realize that Merlin has vanished. 
ARTHUR Merlin?! 
He hurries away toward the camp. 
INT. KAY'S TENT, ARTHUR'S WAR CAMP - NIGHT 
Arthur shakes Kay awake, and as the faithful knight comes out of a deep sleep, he clutches Arthur's arm. 
KAY Merlin, will I live...? (he shakes away the dream) ...I was dreaming... 
ARTHUR Of Merlin? 
KAY Yes. He spoke to me. He said I would fight bravely tomorrow. I have never dreamed of Merlin before. 
ARTHUR I dreamed of him too... Merlin lives! He lives in our dreams now, in that dark and shadowy place that is as strong and real as this more solid one. He speaks to us from there. 
EXT. MORDRED'S WAR CAMP - NIGHT 
Cape flowing, Merlin sweeps between Mordred's war tents, and in the logic of dreams, unseen by the guards. He passes a tent where the huge shadow of Mordred is thrown on the canvas, as he sharpens the blade of a fearsome spear. 
He enters a tent. 
INT. MORGANA'S TENT - NIGHT 
She is stunningly beautiful in her sleep. Merlin leans over her lovely body, kisses her softly on the lips, and waits for her to awaken. 
MERLIN I have returned, enchantress. You are beautiful, magnificent. Have you used up all the magic you stole from me to keep yourself young? Have you any magic left to do battle with Merlin? 
INT. TENT - MORGANA'S DREAM 
She rises from her sleeping body. 
MORGANA You provoke me, Merlin. 
MERLIN What's behind that beauty? A wizened, cold-hearted snake. 
Merlin steps back, grandiose and melodramatic. 
MERLIN You are a snake about to strike! 
He raises his staff. 
MERLIN And I am the staff that drives the snake back. 
He lowers the staff with dreamlike slowness and she slinks right up to him. 
MORGANA Burning with the fire of desire, I am the flames that consume the staff to ashes. 
She winds her fluttering hands around the staff, and the shadows they cast upon the tent give the illusion of licking flames. 
MERLIN I am the cloudburst that quenches the flames. 
MORGANA I am the desert, where water disappears-- 
MERLIN --I am the sea, which covers the desert forever under its weight. 
EXT. MOORS BY THE SEA - FOG - DAY 
It is full day, and the fog blinds with its painful glare. Arthur with Perceval at his side rides through the fog, searching. Perceval takes up a challenge against the King. He unhorses this opponent, piercing him with his lance. He returns to the King's side. 
PERCEVAL There are too many on Mordred's side. We cannot hold out much longer. 
Kay is glimpsed fighting on foot, hurt, barely holding his own, but then the sight is hidden in the fog. 
Kay overcomes his opponent and stops to catch his breath. He is amazed by what he sees. A knight, in old, battle-scarred armor whose pieces don't match, cuts down the knights in black in foray after foray, wheeling and turning in a brilliant and ruthless spectacle of martial arts. He fights without a shield, a lance in his left hand and sword in his right. 
Kay moves away in search of Arthur. 
Arthur and Perceval watch the lone knight meting out death with such terrible beauty, weaving in and out of the fog. 
KAY He can be no other. 
ARTHUR Lancelot?... It is Lancelot! 
He spurs his horse forward to join him, but Perceval is quick to stop him. 
PERCEVAL No, my lord. We seek Mordred. 
KAY I will join him. 
Kay rises onto a fresh horse and gallops away. 
EXT. MOORS BY THE SEA - FOG - LATE DAY 
Arthur and Perceval ride alone, the accompanying knights gone, the dying and the dead and the crazed horses all around them. 
Squires are carrying Kay upon his shield. He is dead. Arthur leaps to the ground and reaches out to touch his face, and closes his eyes. He stifles his tears. 
ARTHUR Has anyone seen Lancelot? 
SQUIRE He lies over there, sir. 
Arthur rushes off, Perceval following on horseback. 
Lancelot is mortally wounded, blood flowing from his abdomen, his eyes open but his gaze dead. Arthur falls to his side. 
ARTHUR Squire! Here! 
But there is no one now except the dead and wounded, and Perceval, who dismounts to watch over the King, sword drawn. Desperate, Arthur stops the wound with his hand. Lancelot's eyes are sightless, but tears spill from them. 
LANCELOT Arthur. 
ARTHUR Lancelot, I will save you... Don't die. 
He tears off a piece of his tunic and staunches the wound with it. 
LANCELOT My salvation is to die a Knight of the Round Table. 
ARTHUR You are that and much more. You are its greatest knight, you are what is best in men. Now we will be together-- 
LANCELOT --It is the old wound, that has been opened. I have always known it would be the gateway to my death, for it has never healed. Let my heart do its job, my King, and pump me empty... 
Arthur takes Lancelot in his arms and rests his lips against the knight's brow. 
LANCELOT (a death whisper) Guenevere, has she come to you, is she Queen again? 
He lies, closing his eyes, unable to look at Lancelot. 
ARTHUR She is, Lancelot. 
A boyish smile settles over the features of Lancelot's face, and he dies. Arthur holds him to his breast, his eyes shut tight. 
A strong wind rises. Perceval kneels beside Arthur. 
PERCEVAL The fog is lifting. Only we remain alive. 
EXT. MOORS BY THE SEA - EVENING 
Arthur and Perceval rise, and as far as they can see across the green hills that roll down to the sea lies the aftermath of the massacre. Hacked bodies, abandoned armor, steaming horse carcasses, everything still. The murmur of the dying is carried on the wind to the soft roar of the sea. The squires have fled the scene of horror. 
