(PAUSE) What happened? Some fan went crazy and started shooting up the place. I don't know why. He was just nuts. Allegra Geller? She's with me. We're OK. Yeah. Yeah. 
(MORE) 
PIKUL (CONT'D) 
(PAUSE) You're kidding me. You're kidding me! God. 1 can't believe it. I can't do that. No, how can I do that? Well, I'm not really sure where we are because... Geller grabs the pink-tone from him. She fumbles around with it, trying to find the power button. She accidentally summons up a read-out, which she pauses to look at. What she sees makes her glance up at Pikul. 
PIKUL What? Can I have my pink-tone back? Geller finds the power button and pushes it. The pink inner light flutters out. She unceremoniously throws the pink-tone out the window. It lands in a rain ditch full of frogs. 
PIKUL 
(IN SHOCK) What did you do that for? That was our lifeline to civilization. 
GELLER That was a rangefinder. As long as you have that, they know where you are. 
PIKUL They? You mean head office? 
GELLER I mean anybody. 
(PAUSE) I heard what Levi said to you. He said, "We have enemies in our own house." He said it as he was dying. 
PIKUL 
(FLUSTERED) I don't think he died. I mean, do you? I think he maybe fainted... Maybe he went unconscious... 
PIKUL That was Alex Kindred, head of publicity and marketing, at Antenna HQ... 
(WISTFUL) .on that very expensive pink- fone you threw away. 
(DEEP SIGH) He said that some bizarre fanatical group called the Anti- eXistenZialists has put a price of 5 million dollars on your head, payable to anybody who kills you. It's been released to all the media now. Everybody knows about it. 
GELLER 
(IN DISBELIEF) Anti-existentialists? 
PIKUL No. Anti-eXistenZialists. Capital X, capital Z. They somehow found out about eXistenZ and they want to kill you for creating it. They say that the eXistenZ game system will "finally destroy reality", or something totally nuts like that. 
GELLER 
(STRANGELY SATISFIED) Yeah. 
PIKUL It makes sense to you? You're not suprised? 
GELLER I hear things. It's hard to surprise me. 
(PAUSE) And what else? 
PIKUL Kindred said that I'm your bodyguard and the company is holding me totally responsible for your safety. 
GELLER 
(WITH IRONY) Amazing, isn't it? 
EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT 
We follow the Defender as it parks outside the Salmon Falls Motel. Pikul jumps out carrying two paper bags of Perky Pat's takeout. He knees the truck door shut and walks over to motel door 5. 
INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Inside the very basic motel room, Pikul sits hypnotized, reverentially watching Geller as he obsessively packs the greasy remains of their Perky Pat burgers into the smallest possible paper bundle. Geller is sitting in the middle of her twin bed, her pod before her on a hotel towel which is draped over her lap, UmbyCord jacked into her bioport, a second towel slipping off her shoulders leaving her almost naked, her shoulder wound livid in the 25-watt light of the night table lamp. Her hands twitch delicately over the surface of the pod like insect antennae, so delicately that we are not sure that she is actually touching the pod. Her eyes are half-closed, and she is obviously in some kind of trance-like, ecstatic state. Finally, she comes out of it and unplugs her UmbyCord, discretely rearranging her towels in the process. She sighs and speaks, not exactly to Pikul. 
GELLER The whole gamesworld is in a kind of trance. 
PIKUL Yes. I remember you said that at the church. 
J 
GELLER People are prepared to accept so little. They're in a'cage formed out of their own limited 
(MORE) 
GELLER (CONT'D) expectations. They have no idea what amazing things could be theirs. 
PIKUL Where were you just now? What were you doing? 
GELLER (a worried frown) I was wandering through eXistenZ - the new system, I mean. (a shy, sexy smile) I like it in there. Of course, without another player you're only a tourist. It's frustrating. 
PIKUL Why won't you let me contact Antenna? They've got to be going crazy, wondering what's happened to you. I mean, it's not like we've done something wrong. We just ran because we didn't know how many of them there were, right? I think we owe it to Antenna to let them know you're all right, to get them to send somebody to help you who knows what he's doing... And besides, I can't... I can't just keep doing this, whatever it is, you know, forever, not having any idea when it's going to be... Geller gets up and goes over to Pikul. She pulls up his shirt. 
PIKUL Hey, what are you doing? 
GELLER Where's your bioport? Don't tell me you were never fitted. I can't believe it. Pikul shrugs his shirt back down, starts tucking it in. 
PIKUL No, I was never fitted with a bioport. What do you care? 
GELLER You're hoping to get into the biz and you've never played one of my games. You've never played any game. That means you have no idea 
what a genius I am. 
PIKUL 
(LAMELY) My clinic master told me I don't need to play a game to know how to sell it. 
GELLER Bullshit. Posturing. You don't play my games, you don't work for Antenna Research, I'll make sure of that. 
PIKUL Look, I've been dying to play your games. But I have this - phobia about having my body penetrated - surgically. You know what I mean. 
GELLER I'm not so sure I do. 
PIKUL Getting a bioport fitted... I dunno. I can't do it. It's too freaky. Makes my skin crawl. 
GELLER God, c'mon. They just pop your spine with a little hydro-gun. Shoot the port-plug into it. They do it at malls, like getting your ears pierced. 
GAS 
(COOL) A bioport, now, that's a sort of a hole in your spine, isn't it? Lotta assholes `round here, but that's generally it. I don't know why you'd be talking to me about that, lady. Geller smiles a knowing smile. 
GELLER Sure you do. Gas looks at her closely for the first time. His eyes widen in disbelief. He pulls a greasy wallet out of his overalls and flips out the card holders. Amongst various family photos, hot rod photos, fishing photos, is a photo of Allegra Geller clipped from a glossy magazine. Under the photo is the legend "Genius In A Game-Pod". Gas takes her hand in his and kisses it. 
GAS Allegra Geller. You changed my life. 
INT. GAS-STATION GARAGE - NIGHT 
Pikul sits on a mouldy, greasy, plump, wingback chair in the corner of the gas-station garage, watching Gas balance shakily on one leg as he puts on a fresh set of overalls. 
PIKUL What was your life like before? 
GAS Before? 
PIKUL Before it was changed by Allegra Geller. 
GAS I operated a gas station. 
PIKUL But you still operate a gas station, don't you? 
GAS Only on the most pathetic level of reality. Geller's work liberated me. 
PIKUL Liberated? 
GAS Did you ever play her game ArtGod? One word, capital A, capital G? 
PIKUL I don't have a bioport, remember? 
GAS "Thou, the player of the game, art God." Very spiritual. Funny, too. God, the artist. The mechanic. (chuckles to himself) Funny. Gas zips up his fresh overalls. 
PIKUL 
(UNEASY) Those are sterile, are they? 
GAS Not to worry. They way they set things up, you could fire in a bioport in a slaughterhouse and not generate an infection. 
PIKUL Then why the clean overalls? 
GAS It's a mental thing. Helps me focus. The one thing you don't want to do is miss with the stud- finder. 
PIKUL Oh, God. 
GAS 
(BIG SMILE) God, the mechanic. 
Z'R Gas slides open a drawer of his red metal mechanic's rolling toolbox and pulls out a greasy device that looks like a carbon-fibre voltage meter. 
GAS We call this thing a stud-finder.' It locates the spot on your spine where the x intersects with the y. We don't want to be even a micron out of whack. That's when you get troubles. It's a little radar/sonar/laser thingee. Marks you with a special range-finding dye. 
(PANIC-STRICKEN) What's going on? I can't walk! 
GAS The procedure comes with its own epidural, just like when you have a baby. Kinda like instant paralysis from the waist down? That's why it didn't hurt you. It'll wear off in about twenty minutes. As they ease Pikul into a sitting position in the chair, Gas almost drops the insertion gun which he has been holding in one hand. He leans it against the wingback chair, and Pikul notices blood and flecks of skin on Gas's work gloves. 
PIKUL You're looking more like a butcher than a mechanic. 
GAS Things do get kinda confused these days, don't they? I'm gonna go wash up. You two make yourselves at home. Gas strides off towards the washroom with an air of great satisfaction. Geller eases her game-pod out of its case and starts to attach its two-player, Y-shaped UmbyCord to it. 
PIKUL What are you doing? 
GELLER We don't have to wait for the swelling to go down. 
PIKUL You're going to port into me? While I'm paralysed? 
GELLER You wanted to play my game, didn't you? 
PIKUL Yeah, I did, and I do, but... Here? Now? 
GELLER It's an instant-on world, isn't it? She lifts up his shirt to reveal the new bioport. It already looks a bit less angry than it did before. Geller caresses it, prods it, plays with it. Then she takes out a little bottle of WD-40 and sprays it around and into the port. 
PIKUL What's that for? It feels cold. 
GELLER New ports are sometimes a bit tight. Wouldn't want to hurt you. 
PIKUL How come bioports don't get infected? I mean, they open right into your body... 
GELLER Listen to what you're saying, Pikul. Don't be ludicrous. 
PIKUL 
(VERY NERVOUS) Don't you think you could call me Ted? 
GELLER Maybe afterwards. Geller gently works her UmbyJack into Pikul's bioport. She locks her eyes onto his, then squeezes her game-pod's ON teat. Instantly, her pod convulses and begins to flash and spark and crackle. White electronic smoke seeps from its crevices and a kind of bioelectronic fat sputters from its pores. Geller leaps up from the arm of the chair and rips her UmbyJack out of Pikul's spine. He can't feel it, but the furious force of her move twists him in his chair. 
GELLER 
(FURIOUS) Shit, Pikul! I can't believe this! I trusted you and you blew my pod! You must have neural- surged! 
PIKUL What do you mean? 
GELLER 
(IN DESPAIR) I jacked you into my pod and you obviously panicked. Now it's totally fucked! This is a disaster! 
PIKUL I.. I was nervous, but I didn't panic. 
GELLER 
(FIGHTING HYSTERIA) I was forced to trust you and you panicked and you neural-surged, and you blew my pod. 
PIKUL You can get a new pod... 
PIKUL That's two people in one day who wanted to actually kill you. 
GELLER I've never been more popular. 
PIKUL Allegra, we need help. 
GELLER You're right. I've got to get this pod fixed. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY 
The Defender winds its way up a heavily wooded mountain road. 
EXT. CALEDON SKI CLUB - DAY 
The Defender turns off a dirt road and rumbles through an open gate. The stone gateposts bear a coy rustic sign which reads, CALEDON SKI CLUB - PRIVATE ROAD. 
INT. DEFENDER - DAY 
PIKUL We're going skiing? 
GELLER Nothing in the countryside is what it seems. It's all appearance versus reality, and the reality here is something unique. 
EXT. CALEDON SKI CLUBHOUSE - DAY 
The Defender pulls up beside the chalet-style ski clubhouse. As they get out of the truck, the same bizarre insect that Geller was playing with the night before lands on the truck's side mirror, narrowly missing Pikul as it flops around in the air. 
PIKUL Look at that huge bug. It's got two heads. 
GELLER ' They breed them here. They're not supposed to get away. They get out and walk towards the clubhouse. 
PIKUL What if somebody comes up here and really wants to ski? 
GELLER Nobody actually physically skis any more, Pikul. You know that. 
PIKUL I've watched some ski shows. Downhill racing, Austrian Alps. 
GELLER 
(CONTEMPTUOUSLY) Yeah, right. 
INT. CALEDON SKI CLUBHOUSE - DAY 
Pikul and Geller enter the clubhouse. There is nobody around. It looks like a real ski clubhouse, complete with racks of ski pants and ski boots. But when Pikul examines the goods, he can see that they're old and cracked and falling apart. They've been there for years. ` A man comes out of a back room, early sixties, authoritarian air, eastern-European. He is Kiri Vinokur, and he lights up when he sees Geller. 
VINOKUR My darling Allegra. I am so pleased to see you here. They embrace. 
GELLER Kiri Vinokur, this is my bodyguard, Ted Pikul. 
VINOKUR Hello, yes, I heard the ridiculous story about this fatwa against you. The company is desperately trying to find you. Is it really serious? Are you in danger? 
PIKUL If I'm her bodyguard, then she's in grave danger. 
INT. GUEST CHALET - NIGHT 
In their chalet, a cozy and inn-like'space, Pikul and Geller examine his new bioport while sitting on one of the chalet's twin beds. The region around the port looks swollen, bruised and tender. 
PIKUL It hurts. I think it's infected. 
GELLER It's not infected. It's just excited. It wants action. She attempts to jack her pod into his port using the Y- shaped UmbyCord, but he twists away from her. 
PIKUL But I really don't think that I want action. Me, I mean. The bearer of the excited bioport. What I want is... not now. Not here. I feel too... too exposed. Geller sighs, then switches into her explaining-the-facts- of-life-to-a-child mode. They are both aware that they are replaying an earlier moment. 
GELLER (cradling her pod) My baby here has now taken three major hits, one in the church, one in the gas station, and one on the operating table. The only way I can tell if everything's OK - the game's not been contaminated, the pod's not fucked - is to play eXistenZ with somebody friendly. Are you friendly, or are you not? Pikul swallows nervously, then turns his back to Geller so that she can port in. 
PIKUL You're telling me this thing will run off my body's energy? 
GELLER 
(PORTING IN) That's how they work. See? You're hummin' along already. Sure enough, he is. Geller deftly twists the second jack into her own bioport and takes a deep breath. 
GELLER All right. eXistenZ. Only from Antenna. Here we go. 
PIKUL 
(APPREHENSIVE) You've got a bit of an unfair advantage, don't you? How can I possibly compete with the designer of the system? 
GELLER You could beat the guy who invented poker, couldn't you? Geller flicks the game-pod nipple, and the chalet begins to melt away around them. 
INT. GAME STORE - NIGHT 
The chalet melts away and is replaced by a scruffy game store. A lot of kids and strange adults mill around amongst the dusty racks and pinball machines, examining packages of weird games and game devices, muttering secretively to each other, and it is amongst these dull rows of shelves that Pikul and Geller find themselves standing. A cashier works away behind an old-fashioned cash register that sits on a tall counter. The cashier, a gangly, sallow young man, glances at Pikul and Geller suspiciously from time to time. Pikul feels himself', his clothes, moves his arms, his tongue. He feels around behind him but there is no game-pod or UmbyCord in sight. 
PIKUL That was beautiful. I feel... just like me. Is that kind of transition normal, a kind of smooth dissolve from place to place? 
GELLER Depends on the style of the game. You can get jagged, brutal cuts, slow fades, shimmering little morphs... 
PIKUL This is amazing. I had no idea. We... we're still ourselves, but we're in the game. Where are we? 
GELLER It's basically a game store I used to hang out in as a kid. 
PIKUL 
(ENCHANTED) Are you serious? 
GELLER We're ported into a game-pod together, remember? eXistenZ has complete access to both our central nervous systems. Its game architecture will be based on our memories, our anxieties, our preoccupations... 
PIKUL 
(DISENCHANTED) Are you serious? 
GELLER You keep saying that. (examines a game-pak) Look at this. Games I've never heard of. Biological Father. Hit By A Car. Viral Ecstasy. Chinese Restaurant. (reads pak back) In Viral Ecstasy, you are a virus invading a specific human body. You create ingenious viral strategies to cope with the efforts of the body's immune system to destroy you..." 
PIKUL Wait a minute. That reminds me. What precisely is the goal of the game we're playing now? I mean, the rules, the objective... Nobody's ever really said anything about what you have to do in eXistenZ. 
GELLER 
(GIGGLING) It's your character who said it. It's a kind of schizophrenic feeling, isn't it? But you'll get used to it. There are things that have to be said to advance the plot and establish the characters, and those things get said whether you want to say them or not. Don't fight it. Just go with it. 
PIKUL But should you be saying that in front of him? Nader? 
GELLER Look at him. Pikul does. Nader doesn't seem to have heard him. In fact, he doesn't respond at all other than to hum the Antenna Research corporate-song and tap his fingers repetitively, caught in a small behavioural loop. Geller chuckles at Pikul's confusion. 
PIKUL 
(RE NADER) What's he doing? 
GELLER He's gone into a game loop, he's locked up, and he won't come out of it until you give him a proper game line of dialogue. 
PIKUL This is tricky. 
GELLER Start by repeating your last line. Include his name so he knows you're talking.to him. 
PIKUL We're here, Dorsey Nader, and that's all that matters. Nader immediately comes out of his loop. He chuckles. 
NADER You're right. That is all tha matters. Pikul smiles, delighted. Now he takes a deep breath, closes his eyes, relaxes. The line comes. 
PIKUL Well, Nader, you said you had what we want. We're waiting. 
NADER You're going to need these micro- pods to download your new identities. I assume that you both have had those industry standard bioports you mentioned installed. 
GELLER Yes, of course, that's right. We both have bioports. Here she pauses, looks at Pikul. 
GELLER We do, don't we? 
PIKUL I assumed we did. I mean, here. In the game. Of course, we might not. 
GELLER We'd better check. While Nader goes into game lock-up, Geller lifts up her shirt. Pikul takes a look. Her bioport is there, although slightly rougher, puckered, more organic than in non-game life. 
PIKUL Yeah, it's there. Looks a little different, but it's there. Geller grabs Pikul's shirt and lifts it. His is there too. 
GELLER I see what you mean. 
(TO NADER) Yes, we both have bioports. 
NADER 
(UNLOCKING) Good. Port in and this'll tell you all you need to know for now. Pikul and Geller examine the pak, which bears the Cortical Systematics name and logo. It seems to be a miniature version of their real-life game-pod. 
NADER I'm going to leave while you finish up here. It wouldn't be good for us all to be seen together. Nader gets up to leave, pauses at the door. 
NADER Don't do anything I wouldn't do. Nader chuckles a very theatrical chuckle, then leaves. 
PIKUL I assume that Nader is our entry point into the game. 
GELLER Yeah. Kinda disappointing. 
GELLER (kissing and caressing 
AGAIN) They're just where we left them, sitting quietly, eyes closed. Just like meditating. 
PIKUL (reluctantly kissing and 
CARESSING BACK) I don't know. I feel really vulnerable. Disembodied. 
GELLER Don't sweat it. All your senses are still operating. You'll pop right out of the game if there's a problem. They begin to make seriously hot love amrngst the game paks and cartons of replacement UmbyCords. And then the game store melts away around them. 
INT. TROUT FARM. ASSEMBLY LINE - DAY 
Pikul finds himself sitting at an immensely long bench in the process of assembling insect motherboards along with many other workers. Pikul can still feel the warmth of Geller's body, but she's nowhere to be seen. A gritty, narrow conveyor belt runs down the middle of the bench, upon which floats an endless stream of motherboard parts which the workers pick off as they need them. The belt begins and ends in the anonymous smoky innards of the building. The place, a high-ceilinged pre-fab, long and narrow with hundreds of blanked-out windows, houses a game-pod assembly line. Pikul looks down to find himself wearing a photo-ID card clipped to his shirt pocket that tells him he is somebody named LARRY ASHEN. He has to twist the card around because, of course, from his vantage point it is upside down. 
NOURISH Tryin' to remember who you are? Pikul snaps his head up to see a long-haired, morose-looking worker sitting next to him, snickering. Mocking Pikul, he twists his own card around, comically bunching up his work shirt so he can read his own name, which is YEVGENY NOURISH. 
NOURISH Hey, it works! I must be Yevgeny Nourish! Nourish leans over to squint at Pikul's name tag. 
NOURISH And you... you are new to the Trout Farm. 
PIKUL Yes. I... I'm... very new. Did you say trout farm? 
NOURISH You know - raise baby trout from eggs and then stock the rivers with them. 
(BROAD GESTURE) Entire place used to be a trout farm. Seems like most everything used to be something else, doesn't it? 
Pikul looks around him. The place is humming, but Geller is still nowhere in sight. The workers are small-town locals o_° a wide range of ages. Pikul looks down at his own hands, which seem to,know what to do: place glue on the boards, glue them down to a resin frame using a template, insert needle-like electrodes into the bodies of certain epoxied insects. The insect boards, Pikul notes, are actually whole insects coated in epoxy and frozen together like a sick collage. At least, here in the game they are. Pikul is now automatically doing flashy moves with the odd materials in front of him with great dexterity. Nourish takes note of this. 
NOURISH I (with admiration) You might be new but you seem to know what you're doing. 
PIKUL 
(GENUINELY PERPLEXED) It surprises me more than it surprises you. Nourish moves back to the insect motherboard that he has been working on, then leans over again exactly as he did the first time. It has the effect of an instant replay, but not in slow-motion. 
NOURISH 
(WITH ADMIRATION) You might be new but you seem to know what you're doing. Pikul realizes he hasn't given the right answer. He now just lets it come without thinking. 
PIKUL I, ah... I've been trained by the very best. Nourish unlocks and looks around with a delicate furtiveness. 
NOURISH 
(FURTIVE) So have I. Where do you plan to have lunch? 
PIKUL I'm new here. I have no plans for lunch. 
NOURISH 11 I suggest the Chinese restaurant in the forest. Everybody knows where it is. Just ask. 
PIKUL Won't you be going there too? 
NOURISH I have other plans for lunch. But I do suggest that you order the special. And don't take no for an answer. 
PIKUL It's her birthday. The waiter locks up for a moment, then unfreezes. 
WAITER A birthday is a special occasion. I will therefore bring the special for everybody. The waiter walks away. The others at the table get up and move away, drift over to other tables with occasional furtive backward glances at Pikul and Geller. 
PIKUL I guess the special isn't very popular. 
GELLER I guess. 
PIKUL But you know, really, don't you? You don't have to guess. I mean, it's your game, your little universe. 
GELLER I don't know. You have to understand that, to understand what we've really created with eXistenZ. 
PIKUL You're telling me, for example, that you don't know what the special is? 
GELLER Correct. I don't. 
PIKUL Or why we ordered it. 
GELLER We ordered it because another game character told you to. That's a clue we can't ignore. But that's just basic games playing. 
PIKUL I want to put the game on pause. Geller just looks at him, puzzled. Pikul panics. 
PIKUL 
(PANICKING) The game can be paused, can't it? I mean, all games can be paused, right? 
GELLER Sure, yeah, but why? What's wrong? Aren't you dying to see what's special about the special? 
PIKUL I'm feeling a little disconnected from my real life. I'm kind of losing touch with the texture of it, you know what I mean? I mean, I actually think there's an element of psychosis involved here. I mean, I don't know where my body really is, or where reality is, what I've actually done, or not done. 
GELLER That's a great sign. It means your nervous system is fully engaging with the game architecture. The game is a lot more fun when it starts to feel realer than real. 
PIKUL 
(PAUSE) Yeah. Pikul stands up and screams at the top of his lungs. 
PIKUL 
(SCREAMS) eXistenZ is paused! The Chinese restaurant melts away. 
INT. GUEST CHALET - DAY 
The guest chalet melts back up around them. Pikul looks around. They are still sitting on the bed, ported into Geller's pod together. 
PIKUL Did I do that? I guess I did. 
GELLER So how does it feel? 
PIKUL What? 
GELLER Your real life. The one you came back for. 
GELLER Oh, good! Pikul looks up from his big bowl, which is rapidly filling with creature parts. His fingers are'slimy and sticky, but he doesn't stop, his fingers working expertly on their own. 
PIKUL Good? You think this is good? 
( AM- 
O: 
GELLER Yeah. It's a genuine game urge. It's something that your game character was born to do. Don't fight it. 
PIKUL I am fighting it, but it isn't doing me any good. Pikul is now snapping together bits and pieces of bone, gristle and flesh, a grotesque Lego set. When he's finished, he's made a gun very much like the one that was used in the attempted assassination in the church. 
PIKUL Omigod, this looks awfully familiar. You sure this is OK? 
GELLER 
(NOT SURE) It should be OK. Now Pikul reaches into his mouth, pulls out a bridge of three teeth - one of them gold-filled - and loads them into the gristly magazine. 
GELLER Do you have that bridge in real life? 
PIKUL Absolutely not. My teeth are perfect. Don't ask me how I knew this thing was in my mouth. 
GELLER It probably wasn't until you ordered the special. He slaps the magazine into the handle, then pulls the slide back and releases it so that there is now a toothy round in the chamber. Then with a smile, Pikul points the weapon at Geller. 
PIKUL 
(CASUALLY) Death to the demoness Allegra Geller. 
GELLER (suddenly very uncertain) That's not funny! 
Pikul looks at Geller and sees that there is genuine terror in her eyes. 
PIKUL Sorry, I couldn't resist. But you know... I do feel the urge to kill someone here. Geller grips the edge of her bowl of hot-and-sour soup - the handiest weapon she has. 
GELLER 
(TENSING) Who? 
PIKUL I need to kill our waiter. 
GELLER 
(RELIEVED) Oh, well, that makes sense. 
(CALLS OUT) Waiter! Waiter! 
(TO PIKUL) When he comes over, do it. Don't hesitate. 
PIKUL But everything in this game is so realistic. I don't think I really could... 
GELLER You won't be able to stop. You might as well enjoy it. 
NOURISH Yes. 
(MORE) 
OC 
NOURISH (CONT'D) 
(BITTERLY) Their corporate slogan should be, "Enemies of Reality". A glazed look comes over Pikul. He begins to speak like a robotic orator. 
PIKUL 
(ROBOT-LIKE) Reality is a fragile thing. Most people think that reality must of course be the most solid thing, but it isn't. Reality is threatened now more than ever. It is being eroded and it is washing away in the deforming storm of non-reality, which masquerades as reality, and eventually replaces it. Deformed and crippled and limping and hideous, threatening to engulf us all. Geller looks at Pikul in admiring disbelief. 
GELLER 
(SOTTO VOCE) Where did that come from? 
PIKUL The game made me do it. 
GELLER I'm impressed. Nourish is also impressed. He smiles broadly, then takes Pikul in his arms and hugs him, then Geller. 
NOURISH 
(PASSIONATE) We love you two now, now that you have proven to be true and trustworthy Realists. We'll be in touch. Nourish turns around and walks back-towards the restaurant. 
PIKUL "Enemies of Reality"? Or does it really mean, enemies of eXistenZ? Are the Realists the game-life version of the Anti- eXistenZialists, desperately want to kill you? 
S' 
GELLER I wouldn't take it too seriously. 
PIKUL 1 Of course you wouldn't. But maybe you should. 
(PAUSE) But why is the name Cortical Systematics familiar? 
GELLER We saw it everywhere in Dorsey Nader's game store, remember? 
PIKUL Yes. So that makes it the game- life version of our own company. Cortical Systematics is equivalent to Antenna Research in the real world. 
GELLER That's probably fair to say. 
PIKUL So, then, do we meekly go back to work and say nothing? It sounds as though Nourish and his Realists are preparing to sabotage the Trout Farm. Before you know it, they'll be planning to assassinate game designers. 
GELLER We're just characters in here. Don't mix your real-life loyalties into it or you'll lose for sure. 
PIKUL Then what do we do next? 
INT. GAME STORE - NIGHT 
We are close on a Cortical Systematics logo on a game-pak. As Pikul and Geller pretend to examine the merchandise, they scan the game store for Nader. The store is quite crowded - same style of customers, maybe even some of the same faces, different clothes. They don't see Nader. Geller goes up to the cashier, the same gangly, sallow, bespectacled young man who was there the first time. 
CASHIER No, no. In fact, you would be useless to us without them. We Realists are forbidden to have them, and so we have to use people like you on occasion. 
GELLER I don't understand. Are you wanting us to jack a game into our bioports? 
CASHIER Game? No. Not a game. A weapon. (a creepy smile) You go back to the Trout Farm, and in a familiar place, you find a mouldy old wicker basket with a thread-bare canvas cover. 
PIKUL How will we know what to do? 
CASHIER (an even creepier' smile) Even a child would know what to do. Someone begins to knock loudly on a door very near by. The cashier is oblivious, but'both Pikul and Geller hear it. The stockroom begins to morph away as its objects are replaced one at a time by chalet objects. 
INT. GUEST CHALET - NIGHT 
Someone is knocking at the chalet door. 
VINOKUR (0. S. ) Sorry to interrupt you kids, but I thought you'd better have something to eat. We knocked on your door a few times to invite you to dinner... Pikul and Geller sit on the bed, game-pod between them, UmbyCord joining them to each other and to the pod. They look at each other. Pikul shrugs. 
GELLER Come on in. The door opens slowly to reveal Vinokur, who stands there uncertainly, holding a large tray. 
VINOKUR ..and when we got no answer, I figured you were playing eXistenZ to try out your new pod, and your new bioport. Everything's all right, I take it? An awkward moment, as though Vinokur has caught the pair having illicit sex. Vinokur moves into the room towards the table. 
VINOKUR Can I leave this here for you? Don't bother unporting. I just had to be sure our star designer was in a good place and that she'd recovered her multi- million-dollar game system from her defective pod. Vinokur puts down the tray, which holds several plates covered by smaller, inverted plates to keep the food warm. 
GELLER Thanks so much, Kiri. This is very sweet of you. 
VINOKUR 
I 
(AWKWARD PAUSE) So I take it she has. 
GELLER Has what? 
VINOXUR Recovered. eXistenZ. 
GELLER Oh, yes, sure. That's why we're so spaced out. 
(TO PIKUL) We were right into it, weren't we? 
PIKUL Yeah, we were. And it's amazing. 
VINOKUR Well, that's a relief. I'll leave you two alone. You can leave the tray outside your door when you're finished. 
PIKUL What is that you've brought? 
VINOKUR Believe it or not, it's Chinese food. There's a great Chinese restaurant on the other side of the escarpment road. Vinokur turns to go. 
GELLER Kiri? 
VINOKUR Yes? 
GELLER Have you heard anything yet? I mean, about the eXistenZ test seminar and the shooting? 
PIKUL Allegra, I'm worried that your game will wipe me off the face of the earth. I'm thinking I was right never to have a bioport installed. 
GELLER (sly, quick smile) But you have one now. And you're ported in. She mischievously flicks the pod nipple, and the chalet melts away around them. 
INT. TROUT FARM SECURITY - DAY 
Trout-farm workers shuffle along a murky pre-fab corridor towards a smoke-enshrouded security checkpoint. A puffy- faced woman with a clipboard is walking down the lineup checking faces and ID cards. With her we discover Pikul and Geller, once again wearing their ID cards which identify them as LARRY ASHEN and BARB BRECKEN. 
PIKUL That was cruel. I don't want to be here. 
GELLER It wasn't cruel, it was desperate. C'mon, Pikul. You've just got a bad case of first-time user anxiety. 
PIKUL I don't like it here. I don't know what's going on. We're blundering around together in this unformed world, whose rules and objectives are largely unknown, seemingly indecipherable, or even Possibly non-existent, always on the verge of being killed by forces we don't understand. 
GELLER That sounds like my game, all right. They are now close enough to the security cubicle'at the end of the corridor to see the workers ahead of them being frisked by hand, then scanned by a wand similar to the one that Pikul used at the church. 
PIKUL That sounds like a game that's not going to be easy to market. 
GELLER 
(LAUGHS) But it's a game that everybody's already playing! Existence, it's wonderful! 
INT. TROUT FARM. ASSEMBLY LINE - DAY 
Pikul and Geller have passed through security and now enter the assembly-line arena. They see Nourish at his accustomed place on the line, hunched over a pile of insect motherboards and now seeming, somehow, menacing, predatory in profile. The pair skirt the assembly-line area, carefully scanning as they go, but there is no wicker basket to be seen. 
INT. TROUT FARM. ASSEMBLY BAYS - DAY 
Pikul and Geller walk down the aisle connecting the assembly bays. Other workers drift casually in and out, preparing for their day in a desultory fashion. 
PIKUL The cashier said it would be in a familiar place. Is there such a thing here? 
GELLER My assembly bay. They make their way to the last assembly bay and slip inside it. There is, for the moment, nobody else there, but several pods have been left on the work tables half-assembled. Pikul spots it first, in the far corner: a large, mouldy wicker basket in the opposite corner. Something lumpy in it is covered by a thread-bare canvas sheet. 
PIKUL Is that it over there? They stroll over to the basket. Geller kneels down and carefully begins to unwrap it while Pikul stands guard. 
GELLER I'd say it's exactly as advertised. The final wrap comes off. In the basket is a necrotic, purpled, very diseased-looking pod. 
PIKUL God, it's ugly. Even for a game- pod. 
GELLER 
(PAUSE) I have a terrible urge to port into it. What about you? 
PIKUL (he thinks she's joking) Oh, sure. Yes. Desperate to port into it. Geller steps over to a bunch of UmbyCords draped over a peg and strips one off. She sits down on a rotting wooden folding chair next to the death-pod's basket and ports in one end of the UmbyCord. 
GELLER Here we go. Wanna give me a hand? 
PIKUL 
(HORRIFIED) You're not serious! I mean, that's a diseased pod! Once you port into that, you become, you... you... 
(HORRIFIED) No, no! 
S: Gathering up her last shreds of energy, Geller suddenly shoves a startled Pikul off her cord and picks up the linoleum knife from where Pikul dropped it. Trailing her bloody cord, she lunges at Nourishi driving the rusty, curved blade into his back with great force. Nourish turns to Geller, the torch circling towards her, wavering. He tries to touch her with the flame, staggers. 
NOURISH 
(DYING) Death... death to the demoness Barb Brecken... to the... 
PIKUL Death to who? (he fingers his ID card) Oh, yeah... Barb... Nourish drops the torch, falls to the ground and snaps into the foetal position. A wall of flame roars up around him, fueled by the straw, wood, canvas, pod-oils. Pikul jumps over to Geller and picks up the trailing cord, twists it in his hands until it stops bleeding. All four walls of the assembly bay are on fire now. The doorway is a flapping sheet of flame. Mixing with the swelling rush of the flame are the sounds of the entire plant going on alert: yells, screams, sirens, running feet, doors being slammed open and closed. Pikul holds Geller tightly. She is limp, weak, drained in his arms. 
PIKUL I think we just lost the game. But now, strange, anomalous objects begin to appear out a nowhere in the flames - a chair, a tv set, a bath tub, a table, objects emerging into the game from the quest chalet. After a moment's confusion, Pikul smiles. 
PIKUL Or maybe not. And sure enough, the Trout Farm and its flames and its black cloud melt away. 
R 
IT 
INT. GUEST CHALET - NIGHT 
As the guest chalet melts up around them, Pikul finds himself back on the bed, as he expected; but he is still embracing the swooning Geller, which he had not expected. 
PIKUL Allegra, we're back home. What's the matter, what's wrong? As Geller swims back up into full consciousness, she begins to talk, mumbling at first, then with terrible clarity. 
GELLER 
(BARELY COHERENT) Pikul. It's here, it's happened. It's come back here with us. We brought it back with us from eXistenZ. 
PIKUL Brought what back? I can't understand what you're saying. 
GELLER 
(WITH CLARITY) We brought the disease back with us. My pod is diseased. As though realizing the implications of what she's saying for the first time, Geller twists away from Pikul and begins to fumble with her UmbyJack. 
GELLER Oh God, I'm really going to lose it, I'm going to lose my game! Unport me! C'mon, unport me! Pikul unports her, then begins to tug at his own jack. When he takes a close look at the pod, he can see that it looks - unhealthy. Geller jumps off the bed and yanks open her bag on the table. She pulls out a tiny hypodermic syringe, unwraps it, flicks the bubbles out of it, falls to her knees beside the bed. 
GELLER 
(TO POD) I'm coming, I'm coming! Geller jabs the pod with the needle. As sne pushes in the plunger, she starts to massage it with her free hand, rub it, prod it. She's so close to it we think she might give it mouth-to-mouth. 
PIKUL But this can't be possible. How can a game event emerge into real life? 
GELLER 
(PANICKING) There's a very weird reality- bleed-through effect happening here. I'm not sure I get it. Pikul finally gets his UmbyCord unplugged. 
PIKUL What's in that needle? 
GELLER It's an anti-viral serum. It sometimes works if you get it in time. Unconsciously, Pikul scratches at his bioport. Geller fixes on him with strange intensity. 
GELLER Lemme see your bioport. 
GELLER I don't know! I don't know! The cashier strides into the room and pulls her to her feet. She tries to pick up her pod, but the cashier tugs her away from it. 
CASHIER Leave that rotting piece of meat here. It's done its job. Let it die. 
GELLER But my game! My game's inside it. I don't want my game to die. The cashier unslings his submachine gun, cocks it, and blows the pod into streaks of slime, flesh, and slivers of insect- board. Geller is in shock. Pikul turns her to face him, speaks' forcefully right into her face, shuts everything else out. 
PIKUL Allegra, listen to me. I think we're still inside the game. I think your real pod's out there somewhere, somewhere safe. I think it's OK to let go of this one, this pod. It's not the real one. A Molotov cocktail comes sailing into the room and shatters against the bed. The bed ignites with an explosive whump. 
CASHIER Everybody out! now! The three of them scramble out into the fiery night. 
EXT. CALEDON SKI-CLUB COMPOUND - NIGHT 
The cashier leads Pikul and Geller out of the guest chalet and down the mountain path. The chalet next to theirs begins to implode as they scurry by it. As they flee, they realize that all the chalets are on fire. There are people trying to fight the fires, running r frantically everywhere with hand-held extinguishers. There is also scattered gunfire, but who's firing on whom is impossible to tell. 
EXT. HILLTOP - NIGHT 
The cashier now leads them up to the top of a hill. 
CASHIER Up here. We can see everything from here. 
PIKUL What is it that we're seeing? 
CASHIER 
(GLEEFUL) The victory of Realism. And you were part of it. 
GELLER 
(DESOLATE) The death of eXistenZ. And we were part of it. The cashier turns on her with his gun. He snaps out his old clip and slams home a new one. He cocks the gun. 
CASHIER There's just one more thing. 
PIKUL 
(HORRIFIED) What are you doing? We're on your side. 
CASHIER 
(FIERCE) How could you be? How could Allegra Geller, the world's premiere game designer, be on our side? (off their bewildered 
LOOKS) Oh, Y93.' We know who you are. You can't hide inside a game forever. 
PIKUL Something's slipped over the edge, here, Allegra. Something's all wrong. 
CASHIER 
(SMILES) There. You see what I mean. You see the problem. 
The cashier raises his gun to fire at Geller, but before he can pull the trigger, he jolts backwards and falls twitching to the ground. From the shadows of the trees, backlit by the fiery landscape below, steps Kiri Vinokur. In his hand he holds the gristle gun which Pikul assembled in the Chinese restaurant. 
VINOKUR I tried to find you. Thank God I got here in time. (pause; waggles the gun) My dog brought me this. 
PIKUL 
(QUIETLY) But Allegra. What if we're not in the game anymore? 
GELLER (confused, childlike) Huh? If... if we... we're not? 
PIKUL 
(STRANGELY HARD) If we're not, then you just killed someone real. A real person. 
(PAUSE) You see what can happen. It's important for me that you see that. 
GELLER Why? 
PIKUL (standing over her) It wasn't an accident that you and I ended up on the run together. 
GELLER Not an accident? Pikul hefts the submachine gun in his hands. 
PIKUL No. 
GELLER 
(COLD) That's why you never had a bioport. You were one of them. 
PIKUL I still am one of them. 
GELLER But you have a bioport now. 
(IRONIC) I thought that was forbidden to Anti-eXistenZialists. 
PIKUL I made the bioport sacrifice to get close to you, to make love to my enemy. 
GELLER Why would you do that? 
PIKUL To understand what I have to kill. 
GELLER 
(QUIETLY) Then. understand this. Geller produces a tiny electronic remote controller from the pocket of her shirt. 
GELLER Understand that I suspected who you were from the moment you made that fake phone call to yourself in the limo. Understand that I knew you were my real assassin when you pointed the gun at me in the Chinese restaurant. She flicks up a safety cover on the remote's tip, revealing a toggle switch. Pikul's hands tense around the submachine gun. 
GELLER And understand that you're dead. Geller flips the toggle switch. The base of Pikul's spine blows out, his shirt billowing with blood as his bioport explodes. 
A delighted Geller dances to her feet as Pikul staggers backwards. 
GELLER 
(GLEEFUL) Death to the demon Ted Pikul! His eyes frozen in a death stare, Pikul falls, rolls down the hill into the underbrush. Smoke creeping up from the fires below curls over him like a blanket. Arms raised in the air, Geller dances around on the top of the hill, looking down on the flames and the chaos. 
GELLER (confident, laughing) Have I won the game? Have I won? Have I won? The hill, the trees, the flames melt down around her. 
NOURISH 
(LAUGHS) Nice try, but you're going to have to turn them in because they're beta versions, pre- production hand-made specials, and we need to study them after use for wear and tear and other things. But you'll get a certificate for helping us out here - I'm right about that, aren't I, Merle? 
MERLE 
(NODDING ENTHUSIASTICALLY) And that will entitle you to reserve one of the first batch of the TranscendenZ by PilgrImage game modules to hit the market, and at a seriously discounted price. You're gonna love it. Amidst applause and general excitement, Merle turns to the tripod-mounted chalkboard standing, as in the first scene, at the back of the dais. There we see the words that she has already written: TranscendenZ by PilgrImage. 
MERLE Remember - it's written like this. Capital T, capital Z. TranscendenZ. It's new, it's from Pilgrimage - capital P. capital I, and it's coming soon. 
Allegra Geller now stands up, walks over to Nourish and gently takes his hand. He turns to see who's got him, then smiles broadly. 
GELLER 
(SHYLY) I'd just like to say thank you to Mr. Nourish for giving me the chance to play the role of a star designer. I guess the game picked up on my ambitions to be like you. 
NOURISH well, let me first say that I'm kinda glad I lost this game. I don't usually play such nasty characters. 
(LAUGHTER) And, Allegra, you were so good in that role that I suspect it won't be long before PilgrImage is after you to sign a designing contract. (applause and laughter) And maybe you should take your friend Ted, here, Mr. Pikul, with you. He's obviously good in a crisis, and when you design games, there are plenty of them. Amid the renewed good-natured laughter, Geller blushes. She reaches out for Pikul's hand. 
GELLER I guess you all could tell that Ted and I had a relationship prior to our coming here. We really do like to play together. 
PIKUL (shy but determined) We do, but I'd like to assure everybody here that Allegra wouldn't really jump into bed with a security guard unless he was me. (laughs from the security 
GUARDS) Merle holds out her hand in a gesture of appreciation towards Nourish. 
MERLE Well, what do we say to our brilliant, award-winning game designer, Yevgeny Nourish? Does he have another winner on his hands or not? 
PC Wild applause from all garners, including Geller and Pikul. 
MERLE All right, now, I have to ask you some questions, before the game half-life wears off. First, let me thank you for taking part in this test seminar. PilgrImage wants to deliver nothing but the finest to the game enthusiast, and you have all been a proud part of that process tonight. When we've collected all the head-sets and game modules, we'll be handing out a questionnaire to each of you, and I'd like your answers to the questions to be as honest, as brutal, as clear as you can make them. Don't hold back. After that, we're going to form a focus group where we'll discuss details of each of your experiences playing TranscendenZ. You've all had different but interlocking lives in the game, and I think you'll be amazed when you hear each other's stories. 
INT. COUNTRY CHURCH. MOMENTS LATER - NIGHT 
While the questionnaires are being handed out by the assistants, Nourish confers with Merle in a corner. 
NOURISH 
(INTENSE) Merle, I was very disturbed by the game we just played. 
MERLE What do you mean? 
NOURISH It had a very strong, very real anti-game theme. I mean, it began with the assassination of a game designer. 
MERLE or Really? But that's very creative. 
(PAUSE) But on second thought, I see what you mean. It makes me nervous. You think it must have come from one of our game players? 
NOURISH It sure didn't come from me. The tone of it in the game was very, very passionate, fanatical. And the atmosphere of paranoia and betrayal was overwhelming. The whole thing felt unstable, dangerous, volatile. But worse than that, there was a kind of industrial espionage subplot. Stealing game-systems, jumping ship from one game company to another. That kind of thing. They both reflexively begin to scan the gaming group, who are all innocently dealing with their question cards. 
MERLE So which one of them did these elements come from? 
