EXTRACT 
Written by 
Mike Judge 
March 2008 
BEGIN CREDITS: 
EXT. REYNOLD'S EXTRACT BUILDING - DAY 
An idyllic American factory. There's a huge, long lawn in front. A Reynolds Extract sign in brick with flowers/landscaping around it, sits near the entrance. We see from the number of cars in the parking lot that it's a company of about 50 - 75 employees. 
INT. REYNOLD'S EXTRACT BUILDING - DAY 
We are in a manufacturing area of an assembly-line production. It's a big room full of intricate machines, huge vats of different colored extract and other food flavoring products, conveyor belts, bottling machines, etc. It has a high ceiling with offices on the second floor that have big windows overlooking this manufacturing area. We PAN up to the main office. 
INSIDE THE OFFICE JOEL REYNOLDS, head of the company, mid-thirties, is on the phone with his friend DEAN. DEAN (v.o.) You should come by tonight. Half price well drinks while the game's going. 
JOEL You always give me free drinks though. DEAN (v.o.) Oh yeah. Well come by anyway. 
JOEL Yeah?... Might as well. No action going on at my house, that's for sure. DEAN (v.o.) Really? The wife out of town? 
JOEL No... I just haven't been laid in a month. 
DEAN (v.o.) You guys having problems or something? 
JOEL No. This is pretty much normal these days... As CREDITS continue, camera PULLS OUT, back down to the manufacturing area, past a big vat of orange extract, down through various stages of assembly line production, then follows several bottles of orange extract moving past HECTOR, a Mexican immigrant employee in his thirties. The camera stops on him. Talking to Hector is STEP, a short, beady-eyed Charles-Manson-looking guy with a beard and mustache. Step is in his forties. He makes everything he says sound as macho and important as possible. 
STEP You get this job through Manpower? 
HECTOR Yeah. 
STEP I started here with Manpower too. Started out on the line just like you. 
(DEAD-SERIOUS) Only I did better... 40 crates a day. Beat. Hector is not quite sure what he's talking about. STEP continues telling his tale in such a way that the only polite reaction would be one of total amazement. 
STEP (CONT'D) I'm the best sorter in here. That's why they made me full time with benefits. I'll probably be floor manager this year. A FEW FEET AWAY we see RORY, a stocky indie-rock geek, with too many tatoos, hair shaved on the side with a ponytail, lots of bad piercings, wearing baggy shorts with lots of pockets and some kind of gothy T-shirt -- a look that ought to be out of style by now. 
Rory is putting stickers on boxes with a sticker gun. He flips the sticker gun around unnecessarily between each application, adding a few unnecessary moves/motions, slapping each box when he's done, generally making the activity look like more of a skill than it actually is. He approaches Step and Hector, pulling out some fliers from his many pockets. 
RORY (hands them each a flier) My band's playing this Friday, come check us out. Hector looks down at the flier. It's xeroxed with fifties clip-art, cut out letters and the name of the band, "God's Cock". Hector just looks at it confused, not knowing much English, not sure what he's supposed to be doing with the flier. AT THE END OF THE LINE, where boxes are loaded onto pallets, sits MARY, 58 years old, wearing a 15-year-old pair of acid- wash jeans, and an oversized tweety-bird T-shirt, fanny pack, and dayglow yellow triangle-shaped earrings. She's pear- shaped with short hair. She's bitter and bossy, always shaking her head at everyone. She sits on a stool with a clipboard, looks over her glasses at Hector, shaking her head. She talks to Gabriella, a Hispanic woman in her forties. 
MARY You see that... That new guy. He's holding us up. It's not my job to tell them to hold the line either. 
GABRIELLA And then Joel's gonna come yell at us, cuz he's not doing his job. 
MARY (folds her arms, fed up) I'm just gonna sit here. 
GABRIELLA You're not gonna shut it off? 
MARY I'm not gonna hold the line. If they're not gonna do their job, why should I do mine. Mary sits there, arms folded, lips pursed, refusing to pause the conveyor belt. 
INT. JOEL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 
Joel is still on the phone with Dean. 
JOEL If I don't get home before about 8:00, she puts on the sweatpants and once the sweatpants are on, it's over -- I get nothing. (notices something down 
JOEL 
(TO HIMSELF) Shit! Joel pulls into his driveway as Nathan flags him down. Joel begrudgingly rolls down the passenger side window so Nathan can talk to him. 
NATHAN Hi there Joel! Glad I caught ya... Nathan settles in like he's going to be there a while, leaning with his arms folded, hanging inside the car, trapping Joel. 
NATHAN How've ya been? I left you a message last week. I don't know if you got it or not. 
JOEL Yeah, actually Nathan, I'm kind of in a hurry here. 
NATHAN Oh yeah? You been busy? 
JOEL Yeah, in fact... (checks his watch) I should go right now actually. I gotta call the office before they leave. 
NATHAN Well, real quick while I got ya here -- what're you guys doing November 17th? 
JOEL Ah, I don't ah... (realizes his should fake 
IT) Actually we're going to be out of town that weekend. 
NATHAN Oh yeah? Where you going? 
JOEL Ah... 
NATHAN Oh, wait a minute -- I'm sorry, I meant the 7th. Yeah, November 7th. You'll be in town then right? 
JOEL 
(DEFEATED) Ah...Yeah. 
NATHAN Great. There's this dinner Leslie and I are going to. It's an annual thing -- we do it every year with the Rotary Club -- it's for charity. It's just a whole lot of fun, and we wanted to invite you and Suzie to be our guests at our table. It's-- 
JOEL I'm sorry, I ah... I just don't think that's something we're gonna want to do. 
NATHAN Really? Why not? It's a lot of fun. 
JOEL Oh, I don't know. Suzie doesn't really like going to stuff like 
THAT-- 
NATHAN Why not? 
JOEL Well, we wouldn't know anybody there. She get's kind of uncomfortable. 
NATHAN Oh no -- It's not like that. She won't be uncomfortable. I guarantee it. No, it's not like that at all. It's not formal or anything. Trust me. It's just a real loose bunch. 
JOEL I just don't... 
NATHAN I tell you what. Why don't we do this -- I'll go ahead and get tickets, since they're gonna sell out fast. You talk to Suzie. See what she says. Like I say, she won't be uncomfortable at all. Maybe I'll have Leslie give her a call -- you know how it is when the wives talk, heh heh-- Joel is about to snap. 
JOEL Um, why don't we talk about this later. (looks at his watch) I gotta make this call before they leave. Joel pulls away, forcing Nathan to raise off the window sill. 
JOEL (CONT'D) 
(CALLING BACK) Sorry... I just gotta make this call! 
INT. JOEL'S GARAGE - CONTINUOUS 
Joel pulls the car in, steps out and is shocked to see Nathan right there in his garage. 
MARY I knew it. That's what happens when you don't pay attention. 
INT. SCOREBOARDS -- LATER 
Joel sits at the bar, on a cell phone. Dean sits behind the bar on a stool. 
JOEL (to the person on the 
PHONE) Uh-huh... Alright. Let me know if you hear anything else. He hangs up, talks to Dean. 
JOEL (CONT'D) Well, he's definitely lost one of 'em. They think they might be able to re-attach the other one, but they're not sure. 
DEAN (shaking his head) Wow... 
JOEL Yeah... I'm not sure how it happened, but we have a great safety record and we comply with all the safety codes so... it was just a freak accident. There'll be an investigation of some kind I'm sure. 
DEAN Well, you have insurance for that kind of thing, right? 
JOEL Oh yeah. Of course. In fact, he'll probably get a huge settlement. 
DEAN Yeah. I would think so. I mean, it's your balls... Beat, as they contemplate the profundity of it. 
JOEL Boy it really makes you stop and think about how fragile we are -- especially our balls. They're just hanging there in a little sack between our legs. At any moment they could be cut off forever. 
DEAN Yeah. And your balls are really important man. Your balls are everything. What kind of life would you have with no testicles? Can you imagine that shit? 
JOEL Yeah... Beat. 
JOEL (CONT'D) You know Dean, my life wouldn't be much different than it is now actually. 
(MORE) 
JOEL (CONT'D) Except for once every three months when I have sex with my wife. In fact, I might even be better off... 
DEAN Wait. Three months? I thought you said it was once a month. 
JOEL I did? I must've been lying. I don't know... Maybe things'll get better when I sell the company. I'll be around more... 
DEAN Well, I hope so. That would suck... I get laid all the time. (off Joel's reaction) Sorry. 
JOEL Ah, it's all right... 
(THINKS) Actually, it sucks. 
DEAN Yeah, sexual frustration is bad news... You know what you oughtta do? 
JOEL What? 
DEAN Get some Xanax. 
JOEL Xanax? Isn't that for anxiety? 
DEAN Yeah it is, but I find it's good for just about any phsychological problem. I mean, basically it just makes you feel good, so it sort of works for anything. I even take it when I have a cold. It's probably great for sexual frustration. Want me to get you some? 
JOEL No. 
DEAN You know what else is good? Codeine cough syrup. 
JOEL For what? 
BRIAN Oh, by the way, guess who asked for a raise today? 
JOEL Who? 
BRIAN 
(GESTURES INDISCRIMINATELY to someone downstairs) Dinkus. Can you believe that? 
JOEL Brian, you call everyone here "Dinkus." I don't know who you're talking about. 
BRIAN You know, Forklift-Dinkus? 
JOEL Oh... I thought you call him "boy- genius." 
BRIAN Yeah, well boy-genius asked for a raise. I said, "are you kidding? You nearly got someone killed last week," and then he blamed it on Dinkus over there. 
JOEL You know Brian, you really ought to learn the employees' names. 
BRIAN Well, I was thinking about that, but hey, if this deal goes through next week, I won't have to. It's not like I'm gonna be inviting Dinkus and Boy-Genius over for dinner. 
INT. JOEL'S OFFICE - NEXT DAY 
Joel stands on one side of his office looking down through a long window overlooking the manufacturing area. Dean comes in, walks over to the window, looks down at the production floor with Joel. 
DEAN Hey man. What's goin' o-- Whoa! DEAN'S POV: It's CINDY, now working down on the floor, on the assembley line. 
DEAN (CONT'D) Damn! Who's she? Is she new? 
JOEL Yeah. She's a temp. 
DEAN She's a tramp? 
JOEL No a temp. Quit staring. 
DEAN Damn, she's hot! Way to go. 
JOEL Hey, I didn't hire her. She came here through Manpower, like everybody else. They just sent her over. 
DEAN Manpower, huh? Maybe I should give them a call. You don't usually have girls anywhere near that hot working here. What's the deal? 
JOEL Yeah, I know. I guess it makes sense though if you think about it. Hot girls need a job just as much as anyone else. 
DEAN (thinks for a second) Do they really?... Huh... You just don't see 'em here. Usually your temps look like winos. And they're guys. 
JOEL You wanna hear something really weird? 
DEAN What? 
JOEL She came on to me. 
DEAN No way! Really? 
JOEL Yeah. I mean, I'm pretty sure. I could be wrong, but... 
DEAN Hey, I'm sure she did. Are you kidding? You could have any girl down there. 
JOEL I don't know about that. 
DEAN I'm serious. Dude, you're the big shot here. You're the king of... What do you call that shit you make here again? 
INT. CINDY'S CAR - AFTERNOON 
Cindy sits in her parked car, going through the purse Mary just described. She takes some cash, puts it in her pocket, then finds what she's looking for -- the address book. 
ANGLE ON ADDRESS BOOK. Cindy turns to the Ws and finds Step Wilkenson. She notes his address. She starts the car and takes off. 
EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF STEP'S HOUSE - A LITTLE LATER 
Cindy sits and waits, listening to the radio. It's a very blue-collar neighborhood. She's about three houses away from Step's house, keeping an eye on it. After a beat, Step limps out of the house, walks over to his pickup truck, painfully gets in, and leaves. Cindy starts the car and follows from a distance. 
INT. GROCERY STORE - A LITTLE LATER 
Step wheels his shopping cart into one of the checkout lines. He uses the cart as a crutch to help him walk. Cindy gets in line behind him. She only has one item, a bottle of Reynold's Orange Extract. Step notices her. 
STEP You can go ahead of me if that's all you have. 
CINDY 
(SWEETLY) Thank you so much. (holds up extract bottle) I can't believe I'm buying this stuff -- I work at the factory. 
STEP Really? I work there too. Or, ah, I used to. 
CINDY Really? You're kidding! I just started there. What's your name? 
STEP I go by Step. Yeah, I'm the fastest sorter there... As Cindy and Step get to know each other we 
CUT TO: 
INT. JOEL'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Joel enters the living room. He first sees the sweatpants, then sees Suzie is sound asleep on the couch. He sighs, then turns and leaves. 
INT. SCOREBOARDS SPORTS BAR -- NIGHT 
Joel sits at the bar talking to Dean. Joel is drinking some kind of hard liquor, getting a buzz. 
JOEL I'm sick of it Dean. I'm sick of being turned down in my own house by my own wife. We're turning into one of those brother-sister couples. 
DEAN Huh...Now that you mention it, you guys kind of look alike too. 
JOEL 
(GROSSED OUT) No we don't! 
DEAN Okay. 
JOEL (takes a drink) Maybe things will be better after I sell the company... Or maybe it's just going to mean more time to sit around and contemplate not getting laid. Dean nods sympathetically. 
DEAN What about that girl at work? She still into you? 
JOEL Yeah... she was really coming on to me. She gave me her phone number and everything. Told me to call her if I wanted to go to that party. Can you believe that? And there's nothing I can do about it, but just be sexually frustrated. 
DEAN I've got some Xanax if you want it. Like I say, that always works for me. 
JOEL No thanks... 
DEAN Well maybe you should call that girl. 
JOEL No, I can't. I can't cheat on Suzie. I just gotta power through it until I'm so old that I can't get it up anymore. 
EXT. LAKE -- SAME TIME 
Step's truck is parked out at a lake in the country. He and Cindy sit next to each other on the tailgate, looking at the stars, talking. 
STEP I just believe that what's right is right. 
CINDY That's right Step, and what's right is for you to send a message. 
STEP A message? 
CINDY You need to send a message so that a horrible accident like this never happens to anyone else ever again. That's what's right. And the way you do that is to take them to court. 
STEP You think? 
CINDY Yes Step... That's why I called a lawyer for you -- that guy on all the bus stop benches. 
STEP Joe Adler? 
(TOUCHED) You did that for me? 
CINDY Mmm hmm... I just want you to do what's right Step. They start cuddling, kissing. Cindy pulls away. 
CINDY I'm sorry Step, your doctor said you shouldn't get aroused. 
STEP No he didn't. 
CINDY Maybe it was your lawyer, but he talked to your doctor. And your doctor said it's very important not to get aroused until after the trial... I'm sorry. 
STEP That's okay... You're so good to me Cindy. They start cuddling again. 
CINDY Look Step, you're getting me turned on, I'm getting you turned on... I better just go. 
INT. SCOREBOARDS SPORTS BAR -- LATER 
Joel is starting to look really tweaked as the drug-alcohol combination begins to kick in. Dean is examining a pill under the cash register light, trying to read the small print. He looks concerned. 
DEAN Shit... Do you remember what color that pill I gave you was? 
JOEL Huh? 
DEAN Damn. I don't think it was Xanax. I think that might've been Ritalin... Or "Special K." 
JOEL (feeling the buzz) Ah, who cares? 
DEAN It's just that, ah, Special K is a horse tranquilizer, kinda has a weird effect when people take it but... well, don't worry about it... You might not want to drink too much more though. 
JOEL (beginning to slur his 
SPEECH) You know that thing you were talking about? About the gigolo? 
DEAN Yeah? 
JOEL Do you think it would be wrong to do that? I mean morally wrong? 
DEAN (with full authority) Oh nooo. Definitely not. What could be morally wrong about it? 
JOEL I don't know... 
DEAN Look, if she doesn't want to go for it, she doesn't have to. And if she does, then she's the one who sinned, and then it's perfectly morally right for you to go out and boff whoever you want. 
BRAD Oooh, I see. Sorry man. Yeah, yeah. I get it now. You're not even gonna be there... 
JOEL Yeah, that's right. 
BRAD Yeah... cool. No problem. This is gonna be great! 
JOEL Remember, she might not go for it-- Brad starts to get a little too excited. 
BRAD Yeah, this is gonna be cool! I can hardly wait! Awesome. Hey man, if you know anyone else who needs -- you know -- what I do, like you know, lonely housewives and shit, maybe you could tell 'em about me, you know... Joel looks on with growing concern as Brad can't seem to stop talking. 
BRAD Cuz like, I figure if I did a few jobs and I was, like, really good? Then maybe they'd tell their friends, you know, and they'd give me a... what do you call those things? 
DEAN Referrals. 
BRAD Yeah yeah, those things. Then those women could tell more women and then it'd be like I was, like, uh... branching or.. 
DEAN Networking. 
BRAD Yeah, networking! Totally. Then if I got enough of 'em, maybe I could quit my landscaping job and do this full time. That would be awesome! Cause I hate landscaping. I like getting laid a lot better, and my boss is a total dick... 
EXT. SCOREBOARDS' PARKING LOT -- NIGHT 
Joel and Dean are at Dean's car, trying to say goodbye to Brad, who still won't shut up. 
BRAD Like I say, if your wife has any housewife friends who might-- Dean finally puts his foot down. 
DEAN Okay, you've said that a few times now Brad. Go on to your car. Okay? 
BRAD Alright. Cool. Like I say-- 
DEAN Goodnight Brad. 
BRAD Okay. See you later. Brad finally leaves. 
DEAN Let me drive you home. You're in no condition to drive. Joel stumbles into Dean's car. 
JOEL Are you sure about this guy Dean? He acts like he's never done this before. 
DEAN Oh no. He does it all the time. Don't worry. He just gets a little excited sometimes. He's cool. 
JOEL I don't know. He sure doesn't seem too bright. 
DEAN Yeah well, what do you excpect? He's a whore. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. REYNOLDS EXTRACT - EMPLOYEE BREAK ROOM - NEXT MORNING 
A break room with a kitchen. Joel is badly hungover. He looks like he's about to throw up as he reaches into the cupboard above the sink, downs a couple of aspirin, then drops some alka-seltzer in to a glass of water. Cindy comes in. 
CINDY Looks like you had one of those nights. 
(FLIRTATIOUS) Where was I? Joel nods, tries to grin and look cool as he takes a sip of his alkaseltzer. Then his eyes go wide, he almost does a spit-take as something suddenly dawns on him... 
JOEL Oh shit! He runs out of the room. 
CUT TO: 
INT. JOEL'S OFFICE 
JOEL Who? 
SECRETARY Brad Chavez. He said he's done with the job you guys talked about at your house? Do you want me to take a message? Joel looks pale. 
JOEL Um, no... He's the ah, pool cleaner. I better take that. Joel goes back in his office. HOLD on Brian, confused. 
INT. JOEL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 
Joel stares at the phone for a beat then picks it up. 
JOEL Hello? 
BRAD (V.0.) Hey, is this Joel? 
JOEL Yes. 
BRAD (V.0.) Hey, it's Brad. Mission accomplished dude. 
JOEL What do you mean? 
BRAD (V.0.) I mean it worked. She totally went for it. 
JOEL What? What're you...? (looks at his watch) You weren't even supposed to be there for another 45 minutes. 
BRAD (V.0.) Oh really? I forgot what time you guys said, and I was so excited about it, I just went over there. Joel sits down, freaked out. 
JOEL (reality setting in) So you mean she actually ah... you guys...? 
BRAD (V.0.) Yup. It was easy. 
JOEL 
(AGITATED) Easy? What do you mean "easy"? 
BRAD (V.0.) Oh, I don't mean easy like she was easy -- like she was a slut or anything. I just mean it wasn't hard to get her to... Never mind. 
JOEL No. Tell me. Tell me how it happened. 
(BRACES HIMSELF) I wanna hear everything. 
BRAD You sure? 
JOEL Yeah. 
BRAD (V.0.) Okay. Well, she let me in, so I went back like I was cleaning the pool... 
EXT. JOEL'S HOUSE - POOL -- DAY 
As Brad's dopey narration continues, we see the story he's telling. It plays out like a bad soft-porn flick on Cinemax. We see Brad wiping the side of the pool with a rag. 
BRAD (V.0.) .I don't know anything about pool cleaning, so I was just faking it. She was in her bathing suit... Suzie comes out and lies on one of the reclining chairs. 
BRAD (V.0.) .So I struck up a conversation... 
BRAD This is a really nice house. 
SUZIE Thanks. 
BRAD Is it your Dad's house? 
INT. JOEL'S HOUSE - EVENING 
Joel and Suzie are eating dinner. Suzie has a glow about her, looking better than ever -- relaxed, satisfied, etc. Joel's has a quietly pissed off demeanor. They eat in silence for a beat. 
SUZIE So... How's work? 
JOEL It sucks. 
SUZIE Really? What's wrong? 
JOEL Nothing. Suzie looks a little puzzled. They keep eating in silence for a beat. 
JOEL I don't feel well. I'm going to bed. 
INT. REYNOLD'S EXTRACT BUILDING - JOEL'S OFFICE - DAY 
From the window in his office, Joel watches Cindy working down on the production floor. Cindy looks up, they make eye contact for a brief moment. She gives him a flirtacious wave. Joel waves back. Then Rory comes by, starts talking to Cindy. 
INT. REYNOLD'S EXTRACT /MANUFACTURING AREA - CONTINOUS 
CINDY So you're in a band? 
RORY .Actually, I'm in five bands right now. But Godscock is basically the same four guys as Fighthead, but Fighthead's more of a thrash/skatepunk thing. Godscock is more melodic stuff. Cindy nods politely. Rory thinks she's interested. 
RORY (CONT'D) So you comin' Friday? 
CINDY Yeah, definitely. (looks at her watch) Ooh, I gotta go. Dentist appointment. 
RORY Cool. Cindy leaves. ANGLE ON Mary, on the other side of the room, watching them. She talks to Gabriella. 
MARY See, there he goes again, slowing us down. 
(RE: CINDY) Now she's a good sorter. They need to hire more people like her. 
GABRIELLA She's so nice too. Hector walks by. Mary just shakes her head. 
MARY I can't believe he's still working here. You know Silvia can't find her wallet. Thinks it was stolen. And guess who was in the locker room last? Hector. They both look at Hector and shake their heads in disgust. 
MARY You know, I could get a job at Southwest Airlines. My Niece works there. I'd get better benefits than we get here too. 
GABRIELLE Mmm hmm. I could get a job at Gemco. You think they would put up with this stuff at Gemco? Mmm mmn. They run a tight ship. 
MARY That's right. 
INT. JOEL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 
Joel's POV of Mary and Gabrielle, yacking self-righteously. Joel looks on with disgust... 
JOEL 
(TO HIMSELF) Good riddance... Brian steps in, taps on the door. 
BRIAN You got a second? I think we might have a big problem here. I'm not sure what happened, but all of the sudden Step says he doesn't want to settle anymore. I think he might've talked to a lawyer. Joel goes to his desk, sits down. 
BRIAN Like I say, General Mills isn't going to make their offer official until this settles. Joel considers this. 
JOEL I think Step is just chest-beating. He does this all the time. He gets all wound up, talks big, then he always backs down. And that's with his balls. 
INT. PAROLE OFFICE - AFTERNOON 
CINDY (CONT'D) I'll also put my number on here. In case you want to call me some time -- if you want. Joel blushes awkwardly, like a junior high school kid. 
JOEL Um... Okay. Sure. 
EXT. JOEL'S HOUSE - EVENING 
Joel pulls into the driveway and is STARTLED as he practically runs over Nathan, flagging him down. Joel MUTTERS obscenities as he reluctantly stops and rolls down the window. 
NATHAN Hi there. Almost missed ya. 
JOEL Hi. I can't talk right now-- 
NATHAN Hey, I noticed you guys got a new pool cleaner today. How is he? We're thinking of changing services. 
JOEL Look Nathan, I gotta... Wait, you mean yesterday, don't you? 
NATHAN Huh? 
JOEL The new pool cleaner. You saw him yesterday right? Not today. 
NATHAN No. It was today. The new guy. 
JOEL What'd he look like? 
NATHAN Blonde haired kid, about this high, good looking. Real good looking. 
IN FACT-- 
JOEL You sure it was today? Not yesterday? 
NATHAN Yeah. 
JOEL You're absolutely sure? 
NATHAN Yeah. I know it was today, because I came home for lunch. I was gone all day yesterday. Anyway, you think I could go ahead and get that check from ya? Like I say, it's 55 dollars a plate, so that'd be 110 total. There's no tax... Nathan leans up to scratch his back. Joel seizes the opportunity and pulls away, burning a little rubber. 
INT. JOEL'S HOUSE - BEDROOM -- MOMENTS LATER 
Joel is on his cell phone, yelling in hushed tones at Brad. He has the door shut so Suzie won't hear him. 
JOEL What the hell were you doing at my house today?! 
BRAD (V.0.) Oh, umm... nothing. 
JOEL Bullshit! 
BRAD (V.0.) Look, don't worry about it bro'. I won't charge you for this one. 
JOEL Won't charge me for...? You had sex with my wife again?! 
BRAD (V.0.) Well, I figured we already did it once, so what's the big deal? I mean, she said to stop by if I was in the neighborhood, so... Besides, I'm not gonna charge you-- 
JOEL Not gonna charge...? God damn you! Yes you are gonna charge me! I'm gonna pay you! You're not having sex with my wife for free! And I better not ever catch you anywhere near my house ever again! Joel slams down the phone. Then realizes it's a cell phone, picks it back up and hits the "End" button. 
INT. JOEL'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
Suzie is asleep on the couch in her sweatpants. Joel walks through, mumbles something about going to a party. 
INT. JOEL'S CAR -- NIGHT 
WILLIE (still holding out the bong and lighter) Bullshit. 
DEAN Come on Joel. Don't worry, this stuff isn't that strong. (to Willie, re: Joel) 
(MORE) 
DEAN (CON T-D) He gets paranoid when he gets too stoned. Joel looks at Willie then at Dean, then takes the bong, partly out of being intimidated by Willie. 
JOEL Ah, what the hell. Willie instructs Joel on the bong usage in the same condescending way a weight-lifting instructor would. 
WILLIE Okay, now this is a gravity bong. Have you ever used one before? 
JOEL Umm, I think... no. 
WILLIE Okay, pay attention. Put your thumb right here on the carburetor. When I pull the plunger up and say, "let go" I want you to let go and inhale hard. Joel's POV: Looking down the barrel of the three-foot bong with macho-man Willie holding the lighter at the bowl. 
WILLIE (CONT'D) Okay exhale! 
JOEL You know, maybe I should just let 
YOU GUYS-- 
WILLIE (starting to get scary) Bullshit! EXHALE HARD! Mostly out of fear, Joel exhales. Willie puts the bong up to Joel's face, lights it and starts lifting the plunger. Then pushes it down. 
WILLIE (CONT'D) Let go! Inhale! NOW! Joel lets go of the carburator, inhales. 
WILLIE (CONT'D) 
(INSANE) 
GO! GO! HARDER!!! 
Joel inhales with all his might, sucking up massive amounts of thick pot smoke as Willie pushes down the plunger. 
STONER-RIPPLE 
DISSOLVE TO: 
WILLIE'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT Willie, Dean and Joel sitting around, completely baked -- especially Joel. (We play most of the scene from Joel's stoned, paranoid POV.) Dean makes some kind of barely audible mumble -- or did he? 
JOEL What? Long pause. 
DEAN Huh? Joel's POV: looking from Dean to Willie. Willie sits there with red eyes barely open. Willie turns slowly to Joel. 
WILLIE Huh? 
JOEL Oh, I thought somebody said something. Willie looks at Joel, stone-faced, adding even further to Joel's paranoia. He stares at Joel for a long beat. Then, in an instant, he's right up in Joel's face. 
WILLIE 
BWAAAAAAAAAAAH!!! Joel jumps back, scared shitless. Willie starts laughing his ass off. 
WILLIE Haaaah ha... The look on your face! 
(INSANE CACKLE) Man you really do get paranoid when you get stoned. 
JOEL (fake, timid laugh) Yeah, heh heh... 
DEAN Hey Joel, why don't you call that chick now? 
DEAN Well, it looks like you guys got a lot to talk about here so I think I'm just gonna go ahead and take off. Later guys. Dean bolts. Willie moves in closer on Joel. Joel starts to leave, but Willie blocks him. 
WILLIE Kinda slutty? Willie grabs Joel and throws him against the wall. Joel tries to make a break for the door, but Willie hauls off and punches him across the face. The ass-kicking begins as we 
CUT TO: 
INT. JOEL'S HOUSE -- NIGHT 
Joel limps into the house, his face bruised black and blue from the ass-kicking. He looks awful. As he limps into the bedroom as quietly as possible, he trips on something, waking up Suzie. She turns on a light and sees Joel. 
SUZIE Oh my God Joel, are you alright? What happened? 
JOEL I'm fine. I'm fine. I just ah... got my ass kicked. Go back to sleep. 
SUZIE What? By who? What happened? 
JOEL It was just... some guy over at Scoreboards. 
SUZIE Let me drive you to the hospital. You need to get checked out. 
JOEL No. I'll be fine. I just want to sleep right now, okay? 
SUZIE You sure you're okay? It looks like your nose is broken, and your 
EYE-- 
JOEL 
(AGITATED) Don't worry about it! People get their asses kicked all the time! It's no big deal. Go back to sleep. 
INT. REYNOLD'S EXTRACT BUILDING - MORNING 
Joel walks past his Secretary. 
SECRETARY Hi Joel. Brian wanted to see you-- 
(NOTICING) Oh my God, what happened? Joel keeps walking, MUMBLES something about falling down some stairs, goes into his office and shuts the door. 
INT. JOEL'S OFFICE -- CONTINUOUS ACTION 
Joel walks over to the window overlooking the production area. He looks down and sees Cindy working, with her back turned. Shakes his head. Brian KNOCKS on the door and enters, looking worried. 
BRIAN Hi... Did you talk to Step yet? 
JOEL He isn't returning my calls. 
BRIAN Shit... We've got problems. He did hire a lawyer -- Joe Adler -- he's that personal injury lawyer you see on all the bus-stop benches. You oughtta see this guy. He's a real piece of shi-- (noticing Joel's face) Oh man, what happened to you? 
JOEL Oh, I fell down some stairs. 
BRIAN Damn... Well anyway, I hate to say this, but I think we're screwed. There's no way this Adler guy is gonna settle for anything less then bankrupting us. Says he'll sue us into the stone age. 
JOEL (clutches his head 
MISERABLE) Shit... I gotta talk to Step. Brian looks at Joel's bruised face. 
BRIAN Man, everyone's getting hurt. Cindy came in with a black eye today. You hear how she got it? 
JOEL Ah... no. 
STEP You know, my lawyer told me not to talk to you. 
(BEAT) You're not here to try to talk me out of suing are you? 
JOEL Oh, no... No, I'm just kind of curious about... ah... So you've been going out with Cindy, huh? 
STEP Yes sir. She's my girlfriend. We might even get married after all this lawsuit-settlement stuff gets worked out. 
JOEL .so some of the guys at work are saying you gave Cindy that black eye. 
STEP What? That ain't true at all. 
JOEL Yeah, I know it's not. 
STEP She got it from falling down some stairs. 
JOEL Hmm... Look, you might wanna be careful with Cindy. 
STEP 
(DEFENSIVE) What do you mean? 
JOEL Well, I'm not sure how to put this, but... You know, you got a lot of money coming your way with this settlement. You might wanna be 
CAREFUL-- 
STEP Oh no. No, she didn't even know about that 'til after we started going out. 
JOEL You sure about that? 
STEP Oh yeah. I didn't tell her about it for a while 'cuz I was kind of embarrassed, you know? You don't tell a girl you just met that you lost one of your balls. Especially a girl as hot as Cindy. 
JOEL Yeah... 
(DELICATELY) You know she lives with this guy Willie right? 
STEP That's her ex. She broke up with him. She's gonna move out. She just needs to get all her stuff outta there. 
JOEL You sure about that? 
STEP Oh yeah. She's moving in with me. 
JOEL Oh. Hmm... 
STEP Look, I know Cindy's got some problems, but she means well. She's the best thing that ever happened to me. 
JOEL Well, okay... If you say so. Another thing -- you just might want to watch your back. Some of the guys at work who think you gave Cindy the black eye were talking about paying you a visit -- you know, getting even. 
STEP Oh. Well I'm not worried about that. (dead-serious, proud) I could kick anyone's ass at that whole company. 
INT. JOEL'S HOUSE - DAY 
Brad and Suzie are by the pool which is filthy. Brad starts coming on to Suzie. She pushes him away. 
SUZIE No Brad, we can't. I'm sorry, but we have to stop doing this. 
BRAD Why? 
SUZIE It's not right. I feel horrible. Besides, I think Joel's getting suspicious. And you gotta start cleaning the pool too. 
INT. REYNOLDS EXTRACT - EMPLOYEE BREAK ROOM - DAY 
A bunch of employees including Mary, Garielle, and Rory are talking, getting worked up. 
RORY .And when they sell the company, Joel and Brian are gonna be the one's who get rich, and-- 
MARY And we're the ones doing all the work. 
GABRIELLE That's right. 
RORY It's bullshit man. We should get a piece of it. I work my ass off. 
MARY Gabrielle and I work harder than anybody. I should be making what Brian makes. If you add up all the crates I move, I lift 10,000 pounds a day. Minimum. 
GABRIELLE That's right. Here he's gonna make a million dollars, and we're the ones who do everything. I went to college. For three years. 
MARY If we quit, this place couldn't run. They wouldn't be able to sell this place for anything. JIM, a tall skinny 50-something guy with a ridiculously big mustache and a little paunch, chimes in. 
JIM That's why what we should do is, is we should all go on strike -- demand stock in the company before it sells. If General Mills knew we were on strike, they wouldn't buy this place until the strike was over. That way they'd have to give us stock. Jim points to his head, gives everyone a "how's that" nod. It starts to build steam. 
RORY That's right man. We should do it. We should strike. 
MARY That's right. I could get a job at Gemco like that. At Gemco, all the employees are owners -- even says so on the name tags. 
GABRIELLE Mmm hmm. I could get a job at Southwest Airlines... 
INT. REYNOLDS EXTRACT - CONFRENCE ROOM - DAY 
The meeting is already in progress. On Adler's side of the table are two other lawyers and a couple of paralegals. On Joel's side it's just he, Brian and Joel's secretary. Maybe one lawyer who doesn't say much. Everybody has in front of them a small stack of documents. The confrence room, like Joel's office, has a full length window facing the manufacturing area. 
ADLER Ok gentlemen. We've gone through everything and the only way we would even begin to consider a settlement would be to the tune of the number you see on the bottom of page 18. Does everyone have this? Joel and the rest of them find page 18. Joel is stunned by the number. 
JOEL What!!!? (so pissed he can barely get the words out) We don't have this much money! Not even close! 
ADLER Not in cash you don't. Of course not. But if you were to sell off your assets: the property lease, the equipment, the-- 
JOEL What the ff-- Are you shitting me!? That would bankrupt us! 
BRIAN This is what I've been trying to tell you Joel... 
JOEL If you think I'm just going to give up this entire company that I built from the ground up-- Adler jumps up, dripping with phoney, forced indignation. 
ADLER How about what my client gave up!? His testicles! How about that!? He walks over to the door... 
ADLER In fact, I'll make a deal with you - - we will drop this case right now if you come over here and put your testicles right here (indicates the space between the door and the 
HINGES) and let me slam this door like this... Adler SLAMS the door ridiculously hard. 
ADLER Go ahead. We can settle this right now -- call it even. I will drop this case right now if you let me slam your balls in this door, 
BECAUSE THAT IS WHAT HAPPENED TO MY 
CLIENT! 
JOEL It was an accident! 
ADLER Not according to our investigation. We believe that, in fact, there was gross negligence... 
INT. REYNOLDS EXTRACT - MANUFACTURING AREA - CONTINUOUS 
SUZIE Listen Joel, there's something I have to tell you. I think we need to be honest with each other. Suzie sits down. 
SUZIE (CONT'D) I'm not sure how to say this, but -- well, you've been so caught up in you're work lately, and I'm here alone all day and sometimes I just-- 
JOEL You banged the pool cleaner. 
SUZIE Wha... Suzie is stunned. 
JOEL That's what you're trying to tell me right? You had sex with Brad? 
SUZIE You knew? 
JOEL Yes I knew. I hired him. 
SUZIE Well I know you hired him, but how did you know about-- 
JOEL I don't mean I hired him to clean the pool, I mean I hired him to have sex with you. 
SUZIE What? 
JOEL He's a gigolo Suzie. Suzie is stupefied. 
SUZIE But... what... Why? Joel is so fed up, he just tells her everything. 
JOEL I hired him to have an affair with you so that I could have an affair without feeling guilty. I was really drunk and on some kind of horse tranquilizer and-- 
SUZIE Brad was getting paid?... (disbelief, hurt) So you've been paying Brad this whole time? All fifteen times?! 
JOEL FIFTEEN TIMES?! Jesus Christ Suzie! Joel sinks into his chair, shaking his head. 
JOEL (CONT'D) I only paid him once -- well, twice. The rest was on the house. Long beat as Suzie tries to let it all sink in. 
SUZIE You wanted to have an affair with another woman? 
JOEL Yes. But I didn't. Suzie paces around for a moment, reeling, processing all this. Then, decisively, 
SUZIE You asshole. 
JOEL Oh, I'm the asshole? 
SUZIE Yes! How could you? 
JOEL 
(LAUGHS) How could I? How could you?!!! You didn't have to have sex with him. You could've simply said "No thanks. Just clean the pool," but you didn't, did you?! No, you took him up on his little offer and had sex with him -- fifteen times! 
SUZIE None of this would've happened if you hadn't hired him. 
JOEL Okay. I'll admit, I made a big mistake. I was drunk, on drugs, stressed, sexually frustrated and I shouldn't have hired a male prostitute to seduce you. But if you had simply been faithful, none of this would've happened. Suzie just looks at him for a beat. 
SUZIE You're sick, you know that? Beat. Joel can't really argue this point. 
JOEL What do you see in Brad anyway? He's borderline retarded. You probably could've been arrested for having sex with a guy that dumb. 
SUZIE That's it. I'm leaving. Suzie heads for the door. Joel follows after her. 
JOEL No. You're not leaving me. I'm leaving you! 
SUZIE Fine. Joel opens the door, about to storm out, only to find NATHAN, standing right there about to ring the doorbell. 
CINDY I have no idea what you're talking about. 
JOEL Yes you do! You're the only reason he's suing us aren't you? You know how much work it took for me to build up that company? You just don't care about anybody do you? What are you, some kind of sociopath? Cindy looks like Joel might be getting to her. 
JOEL (CONT'D) You can't even admit that you stole this purse can you? You just can't do it. 
(MORE) 
JOEL (CONT'D) In fact, you probably can't tell the truth about much of anything, can you?... Cindy turns away from him, looking down at the floor. 
JOEL I bet Cindy's not even your real name is it? Who are you? Where the hell are you from? Cindy, still looking away, doesn't answer. 
JOEL (CONT'D) You can't answer can you? Because if you said one true thing, you'd have to tell the truth about something else and then it would all unravel wouldn't it? Then you'd have to admit that you stole this purse and God knows what else. Beat. Cindy still looking away, down at the floor. We see her eyes well up, about to cry, but Joel doesn't notice. 
JOEL 
(COMPOSES HIMSELF) Well, I'm leaving now. Joel picks up the purse. 
JOEL And I'm taking this purse with me. If it really is yours, you can call the police and tell 'em I stole it... In fact, I'm gonna call the police and report it... Joel walks towards the door. Then Cindy slumps down on the couch, mutters something, still looking down at the floor, her voice cracking slightly. 
CINDY Please don't... Joel stops. 
JOEL What? 
CINDY (still looking down) Please don't report it to the police. I'm on probation. I'll go to jail. For a long time. 
JOEL Well... Maybe you should've thought about that before you started ripping off my employees. Joel starts to open the door. 
CINDY Joel? Please? I'll leave Step alone. I promise. He'll drop the lawsuit. Joel considers this. 
JOEL How do I know that? 
CINDY You can keep the purse. If I don't leave him alone; if he doesn't drop the lawsuit, then you can report me. Please? Beat. 
JOEL Hmm... I guess that ah... Do you have Sylvia's wallet, and Jim's watch? Can I get those too? Beat. Cindy nods, still looking down. Joel considers it. 
JOEL Well... Okay then. I guess that works. 
(REALIZING) And I guess you just admitted that you stole the purse. That's good, I guess... A step in the right direction... Joel sits down on the couch also. With her head still down, Cindy is weeping quietly. Joel doesn't notice, looking straight ahead. 
JOEL So what's your deal anyway?... I mean, how did you end up like this? Joel finally looks over, notices that she's crying. He's caught off guard. 
JOEL .Ah... Cindy? Cindy breaks down and starts bawling. 
JOEL (CONT'D) Okay, now you see... that's what I'm talking about. You're trying to manipulate me now, and I'm not gonna fall for it... Cindy starts bawling even harder. 
JOEL (CONT'D) I really hope you're not faking this right now, because I'm feeling really bad. Are you faking it? Cindy shakes her head "no." 
JOEL I'm sorry, I was just curious, you know, how a person ends up like... this... Cindy suddenly starts BAWLING hysterically. Joel stands there awkwardly, not sure if he should hug her or comfort her in any way. 
JOEL Never mind. I'm sorry... Joel tentatively puts a comforting arm around her and she leans in to him, crying on his chest. He puts his other arm around her and she snuggles in even closer. As her crying gradually subsides she snuggles in even more. Finally, she lifts her head and they start kissing. As they get hot and heavy we 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. EXTENDED STAY AMERICA SUITES -- MORNING 
Wide shot of the Hotel. It's a beautiful morning. 
INT. CINDY'S ROOM - DAY 
JOEL Yeah... I'm beginning to think I might be the same way... I'm a little worried about what I'd do with too much time on my hands. 
STEP I just lay around and watch TV all day. 
JOEL Yeah,... I think I do a lot worse. 
STEP The problem is, if I bankrupt the company, there won't be a job to go back to. 
JOEL You don't have to bankrupt the company. 
STEP Yeah, but then if I drop the lawsuit, you'll sell the company, and the new company might not hire me. 
JOEL Well, maybe I don't have to sell the company... You know I've been thinking; all these years I've been building this company, dreaming about the day I could sell it and retire, but what would I really do if I retired? It's like that old saying -- it's not about the destination, it's about the journey? Step just stares at him blankly, he lost him. 
JOEL I guess what I'm saying is, too much free time might not be such a good thing -- like that old saying, idle hands are the Devil's playground? Step's never heard that one either. 
STEP I'm sorry, I don't do much book readin'. 
JOEL What I'm saying is, I'm thinking maybe I won't sell the company... 
STEP Really? 
JOEL that is, if you dropped the lawsuit. -- and remember, you'll still get that insurance money -- probably a couple hundred thousand. What do you think? 
STEP Hmm. That sounds fair... But under one condition... 
JOEL What's that? 
STEP You make me floor manager. 
JOEL Deal. They shake hands. 
INT. REYNOLDS EXTRACT - MANUFACTURING AREA 
Joel walks in with Step at his side. Addresses the employees. 
JOEL Hold the line! Mary shuts off the conveyer belt. 
JOEL Okay, listen up everybody. (Waits for them to settle) I've decided not to sell the company... Gasps and murmurs among the employees. 
JOEL And I'm making Step the new Floor Manager. More gasps and murmurs. 
JOEL And if anyone doesn't like it, I hear they're hiring over at Gemco... But just remember, at Gemco, the owner doesn't know your names; you never even meet him, he's at an office up in Chicago somewhere and you get an auto- response if you try to email him to complain about anything. Here, you can come up to my office any time you have a problem. Thanks. Joel walks off. Brian catches up with him. 
BRIAN Huh? You're not selling? 
JOEL It's about the journey Brian. The journey. ANGLE on Mary. She and Gabrielle start right back up. 
MARY You know, if Joel's going to put him in charge, we should go on strike. You know, at Gemco, the union handles the strikes and you don't even have to-- PULL OUT as Step cuts her off. 
STEP Quit yapping and get back to work or you're fired. Step walks off -- maybe pops a testosterone pill. Mary and Gabrielle keep muttering and shaking their heads. LONG PULL OUT as things get back to normal at the factory. 
INT. CHAPEL - DAY 
We are CLOSE ON NATHAN, in a coffin, embalmed. We PULL OUT to see mourners lined up, taking a last look at the body. Joel is among them. He looks down at Nathan for a moment and then continues to his seat. A few rows back, we see SUZIE, sitting by herself, dressed in black. 
EXT. CEMETERY - DAY 
Quick shot of Nathan's casket being lowered into the ground as the priest says the last few words. 
