THE FABULOUS BAKER BOYS - April 1985 draft 
LOG #028 
"THE FABULOUS BAKER BOYS" An Original Screenplay by Steve Kloves 
WARNER BROS.INC. 4000 Warner Boulevard Burbank, California 91522 
April, 1985 (C) 1985 WARNER BROS. INC. All Rights Reserved 
"THE FABULOUS BAKER BOYS" 
FADE IN: 
JACK BAKER 
is standing before a dirty window, looking out at a dirty city street.  He is wearing a tuxedo. 
VOICE (O.S.) Hey. 
WIDEN ANGLE 
It's the GIRL from this afternoon. 
JACK Hey. 
Jack looks at the Girl, sleepy and warm under the bedcovers, then at the rest of the apartment. Not good. 
GIRL Whatcha doin' over there? 
JACK Gotta go. 
GIRL How come? 
JACK Job. 
The Girl glances at the bedside clock. 
GIRL Funny hours. 
JACK Funny job. 
GIRL Will I see you again? 
Jack looks out at the dirty street again. 
JACK No. 
The Girl doesn't appear terribly unnerved by this. 
GIRL (at the tux) You weren't wearing that, were you? Earlier. 
Jack shakes his head, taps a brown paper bag on the sill. 
JACK Brought it. 
GIRL Shit, thank God.  You look like a creep. 
JACK Thanks. 
GIRL I mean, I'd hate to think I'd pick up someone who wore that shit. 
Jack smiles, grabs the paper bag, and moves to the door. 
GIRL (continuing) Hey. (as he stops) You got great hands. 
EXT.  STREET - JACK 
Jack ain't exactly Cary Grant, but any guy wearing a tux on these streets doesn't exactly mesh with the milieu.  Pausing for a flask of whiskey at an all-night liquor store, he breaks the seal before he hits the sidewalk and moves on, drinking as he goes.  Finally, he comes to a nice downtown hotel. Slipping the bottle in his coat, he squints up at the glittering building as if sizing up an opponent. 
DOORMAN Hey, Jackie! 
JACK How goes it, Tommy? 
TOMMY (DOORMAN) (shrugging) Ah, you know. Howsa pooch? 
JACK Losing his teeth. 
TOMMY No shit. It's the goddamn water. Kill an ox. I buy bottled for my Danny. You can't trust the taps. 
JACK Yeah. (standing back) Jesus, you look like fucking royalty, Tommy. 
Tommy brushes at his new velvet coat. 
TOMMY Yeah.  The big boys sent it down yesterday. 
JACK Another five years, huh? 
TOMMY Like clockwork.  You got a good memory, Jackie. 
JACK It ain't always a blessing.  My brother here? 
TOMMY (nodding) He's got blood in his eye. 
Jack glances at his watch, waves to Tommy, and moves into the hotel. 
INT.  HOTEL - ANGLE ON FRANK 
Jack's older brother, FRANK, is pacing outside the lounge when he sees Jack approaching. 
FRANK Great.  Terrific.  Glad you could make it. 
JACK How we doing? 
INT.  OFFICE 
Frank stands across the desk from a YOUNG MAN who, despite his youth, has an irritatingly paternal attitude toward the two men in his office.  Jack stays in the doorway, smoking a cigarette, as if to venture any further is to risk contracting some hideous disease. 
LLOYD (YOUNG MAN) (preparing a cash envelope) Terrific, boys.  Really.  Terrific. 
FRANK Thanks, Lloyd. 
LLOYD Yes, sir.  You're just what we needed on a night like this. 
FRANK Uh ... thanks. 
Frank glances at Jack and realizes he should have left him in the kitchen with Hector and the soup bone. 
LLOYD Only, Jack, do me a favor, will ya, pal?  If you wanna smoke, put on a pair of sunglasses and go play with the niggers on State Street.  These blisters from the midwest don't wanna watch some guy dripping ash all over himself while he's playing 'The Sound of Music.' 
ANGLE - JACK 
Smoke curls out of Jack's nose.  He is utterly still, like a pit bull eyeing a steak. 
BACK TO SCENE 
LLOYD Okay, boys, that ought to buy you a few more lessons.  By the way, Frankie, I'm declaring this. 
Lloyd slaps a slender envelope onto the desk and, business closed, busies himself with other matters. 
FRANK Uh ... You don't know when you'll be wanting us back, do you, Lloyd? 
LLOYD I'll call you. 
FRANK Uh, well, you know, the way our schedule is, I thought maybe... 
LLOYD I'll call you. 
Frank bites down and takes the envelope from the desk. 
JACK Count it. 
FRANK Huh? 
JACK Count it. 
FRANK Jack... 
JACK Count the fucking money, Frank. 
Lloyd looks up.  Jack is staring right into him. Reluctantly, Frank opens the envelope. 
FRANK It's all here. (pulling Jack out) I'll be talking to you, Lloyd. 
Lloyd doesn't answer.  He just looks at Jack, smiling with amusement. 
EXT.  STREET - JACK AND FRANK 
Jack comes out onto the street holding the wrapped soup bone, dogged by Frank, who's got the cardboard stand-up under his arm. 
FRANK You mind telling me what that was about in there? Was that planned? Or were you just bored and decided to get creative? 
JACK Fuck him. 
FRANK This isn't the Pine Tree Inn on Route 81, Jack. 
JACK Fuck him. 
FRANK (to himself) Fuck him.  Great.  Terrific.  Fuck him. 
The fabulous Bakers walk in silence until they come to Frank's car. Frank opens the trunk and starts to put the stand-up away. 
JACK So we on tomorrow night? 
FRANK (shaking his head) Maybe Thursday.  I hear the harpist at the Sheraton's got appendicitis. 
Jack nods and starts to walk away. 
FRANK (continuing) Hey. 
Jack stops. 
FRANK (continuing) Listen ... why don't you come out to the house this weekend.  Say hello to the kids. They've grown. 
JACK I hate your kids, Frank. 
FRANK You're their uncle. 
JACK Only by relation.  Besides, they hate me, too. 
FRANK They don't.  They're always asking about you. 
JACK They tried to electrocute me, Frank. 
FRANK It was an accident. 
JACK It was no fucking accident, Frank. The little one ... 
FRANK Cindy. 
JACK She threw a goddamn radio into the bathtub. How do you explain that? 
FRANK She didn't know what she was doing. You're too sensitive. 
JACK You got weird kids, Frank. 
FRANK Look, I just thought if you came out you might see what you're missing. 
JACK No thanks. 
FRANK No, I mean it. 
JACK So do I. 
FRANK We gotta go, Jack. 
JACK No, you gotta go 'cause if you don't get up there every couple weeks you feel guilty. I won't feel guilty, so I don't gotta go. 
FRANK This time you gotta go. 
JACK I don't gotta go. 
FRANK You gotta go. 
JACK Says who? 
FRANK Your older brother. 
JACK You're thirteen months older than me, Frank. That might've meant something in the Apache clubhouse, but it don't cut too deep anymore. 
FRANK Christ, Jack, it's her birthday. 
Jack glances up.  Frank nods. 
FRANK (continuing) So what do you say? Think the city can spare you for an afternoon? 
Jack squints out the window. 
FRANK (continuing) Okay.  And don't worry about a present. I got her something from both of us. 
EXT.  STREET 
Jack, cradling a pink bakery box in one hand, gets out of Frank's car and surveys the street on which he grew up. 
FRANK Make sure you lock. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Unless you count the elderly gentleman picking roses three houses down, there would not appear to be a wealth of potential car thieves in the immediate vicinity. But it's not Jack's car, so he doesn't press the point. 
BACK TO SCENE 
FRANK Place looks good, huh?  I got a neighbor boy to mow the lawn, pick up. Five bucks. Times've changed, huh? (pointing) See the tree? Remember the job Cecil did on it the day Dad planted it? You can still see the scars on the trunk.  Really. I was looking at it just the other day. Jesus, I thought he was gonna kill that cat. 
Frank smiles, recalling Cecil's near-demise, then raps on the front door. Jack studies the tree a moment, then gestures to the tiny ribboned box in Frank's hand. 
JACK So what'd we get her? 
FRANK You'll see. 
ANGLE - FRONT DOOR 
At that moment, the door swings open and ELLIE BAKER is there, a vibrant woman in her sixties. 
MRS. BAKER Well, if it isn't the fabulous Baker Boys! 
FRANK How's the birthday girl? 
MRS. BAKER A little stiffer, but just as sturdy. 
Mrs. Baker hugs Frank, then, a bit awkwardly, embraces Jack. 
MRS. BAKER (continuing) John.  It's good to see you. 
JACK (uncomfortable; balancing cake box) Good to see you, Ma. 
Jack looks over his mother's shoulder at Frank and mimics "John" with a knowing nod. 
FRANK Uh, Ma, you know, no one calls him that anymore. Jack. He goes by Jack. 
MRS. BAKER I thought maybe held gotten over that. 
FRANK Twenty years, Ma ... 
MRS. BAKER Yes, yes.  It's just that John is so much nicer. Jack sounds so ... crude. When I was a little girl, we had a pig on the farm named Jack. I guess I just can't help making the association. 
Jack's eyes slide over to Frank as if to suggest he holds his brother personally responsible for this. 
FRANK Uh ... yeah, well, you know, Ma, John Kennedy went by Jack. 
MRS. BAKER Catholics.  What do you expect? Oh, well, what's in a name, right? Let's go inside and have a look at that cake. 
As Mrs. Baker exits, Frank leans over to Jack. 
FRANK Keep her busy, will ya? I have to set a few things up. 
Frank disappears, leaving Jack alone on the porch with the bakery box.  Jack shakes his head, wondering how he's going to make it through the afternoon, then enters the house. 
INT.  HOUSE 
The front room is cluttered with his childhood. Most noticeable are the pianos: two tiny uprights, perfectly matched, their simulated ivory keys yellowed with age.  Above them, pressed between glass and framed, are the music ribbons, faded by twenty years of sunlight. Finally, there is the sheet music, dusty and dog-eared, piled everywhere in drunken stacks. This and all else in the room Jack confronts slowly, warily, but with a noticeable dispassion, until his eyes fall upon a photograph. In it, he and Frank are standing alonside a tall man in baggy slacks, safe within the arc of his long arms. 
Frank is staring straight into the camera, neat, clean, perfectly posed, but Jack, a year younger, his shirt too big, is caught in profile, looking up at the tall man with an almost worshipful gaze. 
MRS.  BAKER (entering) Well, now, where's everyone run off to? Frank? 
JACK Downstairs. 
MRS. BAKER Oh. 
All at once, Jack and his mother realize they are alone. 
INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT 
Jack lets himself into his apartment and stops. Across the room, curled up on the couch, is a little girl. Jack takes the girl gently in his arms and carries her to the bedroom.  As he folds a blanket under her chin, he pauses. The girl's face is calm, peaceful. 
EXT.  STREET - DAWN 
The next morning.  Early. The sun is peeking sleepily between the buildings and beginning to drip out onto the street.  Suddenly, RINGING OUT over the rooftops, is "JINGLE BELLS" -- not the entire song, just the first two bars, over and over. 
IHT.  JACK'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Jack, on the couch, his arm draped over a slumbering Eddie, opens his eyes.  Across the room, seated at the piano, is NINA, the little girl. She stops playing and turns. 
NINA Morning.  You want coffee?  I made coffee. 
Jack looks into the sleepy face of Eddie and sits up. He nods to the coffee.  Nina goes to the kitchen. 
NINA (continuing) I did the dishes last night. You're missing a cup. 
Jack rubs his head, then gets up and walks to the window. 
NINA (continuing) Did you break a cup, Jack? 
JACK Eddie did. 
Nina looks at Eddie, sleeping on the couch, then brings Jack his coffee with both hands. 
NINA I practiced the piano last night.  Two hours. I think I'm ready for 'Jingle all the way.' 
Jack nods.  Suddenly, the sound of HEAVY FOOTSTEPS is heard. Jack and Nina glance up at the ceiling. 
NINA (continuing) Guess they're up. 
JACK Sounds big.  What's he do? 
NINA Process server. Ma said it's like a lawyer only the hours are more regular.  All I know's he came to take the TV one afternoon and ended up staying for dinner.  And breakfast. 
JACK What happened to the donut king? 
NINA Married. 
Upstairs, a DOOR SLAMS and HEAVY FEET ECHO in the stairwell. Nina peers out the window. 
NINA No breakfast.  Maybe they had a fight. 
TWO DEEP THUMPS sound on the ceiling. 
NINA (continuing) Well, gotta go.  Teach me later? 
Jack nods. Nina kisses him on the cheek and exits. Jack walks over to the couch and gives Eddie a nudge. 
JACK Hey. 
INT.  LUAU LOUNGE 
Though the plastic palms and grass-skirted waitresses of the Luau Lounge make the Fabulous Baker Boys' presence seem a bit incongruous, Jack and Frank hold nothing back, giving "McCarthur Park" the full treatment. Unfortunately, the audience in the Luau Lounge wouldn't fill a Hawaiian haystack and their applause is less than volcanic. 
FRANK Uh, thank you.  That concludes our show for this evening.  Jack and I only hope you enjoyed yourselves as much as we did. 
As the guests wander out, clutching their roomkeys, a freckle-faced BELLHOP comes up. 
BELLHOP Mr. Baker. 
FRANK (tired) Yeah, Jimmy. 
JIMMY (BELLHOP) Mr. Simpson asked to see you. 
FRANK All right, tell him I'll be right there. 
As Jimmy exits, Frank stands and points at Jack. 
FRANK (continuing) Tomorrow we close with the 'Aquarius Suite.' 
INT.  HOTEL CORRIDOR 
Frank pauses before a door marked "HOTEL MANAGER." It's half-open.  Inside, CHARLIE SIMPSON, a heavy man in a shiny suit, is throwing darts in the general direction of a dartboard.  He's not very good.  Frank knocks. 
CHARLIE Frankie. 
FRANK You wanted to see me, Charlie? 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
CHARLIE Yeah, come on in. 
FRANK Little slow tonight. 
CHARLIE (waving it off) Mondays. 
Charlie takes an envelope from his desk and hands it to Frank. 
FRANK What's this? 
CHARLIE Your pay. 
FRANK Now?  Why not tomorrow?  After the show. 
CHARLIE Take it now. 
FRANK (confused) What about tomorrow? 
CHARLIE We don't need you, Frankie. 
For a moment, Frank just stands there. 
FRANK (lifting Cindy out of the pool) Nothing's the matter. Is it, sweetheart? 
DONNA I'll take her inside.  You too, little Frank.  Out of the pool. 
Donna shepherds the kids toward the house. 
FRANK Feet! 
The kids wipe their dripping feet on the outside mat and disappear into the house.  Frank turns to Jack. 
FRANK (continuing) It's probably the excitement of seeing you again. 
EXT.  BACKYARD (LATER) 
Donna comes out of the house with a tray of lemonade. The men are sitting by the pool in a pair of webbed aluminum chairs. 
FRANK Well, look at this. 
DONNA You bring trunks, Jack? 
JACK Trunks? 
DONNA Swimming trunks. 
JACK Oh. No. Strictly dryland. 
DONNA Too bad.  You could use some sun. Really. 
JACK Maybe next time. 
DONNA We have some lotion. 
JACK Just the same. 
DONNA Suit yourself. 
Donna returns to the house. Frank takes a sip of his lemonade and scans his surroundings complacently. 
FRANK Nice, huh? 
JACK What? 
FRANK The trees.  The flowers.  Nice. 
JACK Terrific. 
FRANK (expansively) Yeah ... we're gonna paint in the spring. After the rains.  Look good as new. 
JACK You ask me out here to sell me your house, Frank? 
Frank shakes the ice in his glass. 
JACK (continuing) Charlie paid you off last night, didn't he? 
FRANK I don't know what you mean. 
JACK The hell you don't. 
FRANK I told you.  Something came up. Some political dinner or something. 
JACK Bullshit.  Fifteen years, Frank. No one paid us off. 
FRANK It wasn't like that. 
JACK No? 
FRANK No. 
JACK What was it like? 
FRANK Hey pal, I got a mortgage, all right? I got two kids. I got a wife. Besides, he made the deal. There's no shame in it. 
JACK That how you see it? 
FRANK Yeah, that's how I see it. 
Jack shakes his head in disgust. 
FRANK (continuing) And don't go shaking your head, little brother. I'm not the one who walks in every night smelling like he's got a day job in a piss factory. (pause) It killed him, you know. 
Jack glances up.  Dangerous territory. 
JACK A gust of wind killed him. 
FRANK Yeah, and what put him up there? 
JACK Hey, you weren't there.  Right? 
Jack's look ends this.  Frank sighs. 
FRANK Look, can we forget last night? We gotta talk. 
JACK Talk. 
FRANK I been thinking maybe we should make some changes. (pause) I been thinking maybe we should take on a singer. 
Silence. 
JACK Sure, why not. 
FRANK It's just an idea.  I want your opinion. I mean, we go halfway on everything, right? 
JACK It's more like 40-60, wouldn't you say? 
WOMAN Hey.  You one of the fabulous Baker Boys? 
JACK AND FRANK 
are putting on their coats, preparing to leave. Frank is staring at his notepad. 
FRANK Thirty-seven.  Thirty-seven. 
JACK What? 
FRANK Thirty-seven girls. And not one who can carry a tune. That must be statistically impossible. 
JACK It was a somewhat extraordinary day. 
FRANK I just don't understand.  You would think someone ... anyone ... 
WOMAN (O.S.) Damn! 
The Woman in high heels stumbles into the doorway, holding a shoe in her hand.  It's broken. 
WOMAN (continuing) Brand new Thursday.  You believe it? 
After today, Jack and Frank are prepared to believe anything. 
WOMAN (continuing) This where the auditions are? 
FRANK This is where the auditions were. 
WOMAN What do you mean? 
FRANK We're finished. 
WOMAN What about me? 
Frank looks at his watch. 
FRANK You're an hour and a half late. 
WOMAN My watch is broken, too. 
FRANK Punctuality.  First rule of show business. 
The Woman looks around her. 
WOMAN This is show business? 
FRANK (in no mood) Look, miss.  We're tired, you have gum on your lip, and we're going home. 
WOMAN (touching her lip) Just like that, huh?  You're not even gonna give me a chance? 
FRANK Don't take it personally. 
WOMAN How should I take it? 
FRANK Impersonally. 
Frank begins to leave. 
WOMAN I don't believe it.  I come all the way down down here, break a heel, and you're not gonna give me a chance because I have gum on my lip and I'm a few minutes late. 
FRANK You're an hour and a half late. 
WOMAN So if I'm so 'late how come you're still here? 
FRANK We ran long. 
WOMAN So run a little longer. 
FRANK Miss -- 
WOMAN You find a girl? 
Jack and Frank glance at each other. 
JACK No. 
WOMAN So. I'm here, you're here, the piano's here.  What d'ya say? 
Before Frank can answer, Jack walks over to the piano. 
FRANK Terrific.  Thirty-eight. 
WOMAN What's that mean?  Thirty-eight. 
JACK Don't worry about it. 
WOMAN (to Frank) You know, I'm feeling a lot of hostility from you. 
FRANK (appealing) Jack. 
JACK Let's get it over with. 
FRANK All right.  What's your name? 
WOMAN Susie.  Susie Diamond. 
FRANK Catchy.  You have any previous entertainment experience, Miss Diamond? 
SUSIE (WOMAN) Well ... for the last four years I've been on call to Triple A Escort service. 
Jack and Frank exchange a glance. 
SUSIE (continuing) Hey, it's legit.  Strictly dinner and dance. 
SUSIE Time for what? 
INT.  DEPARTMENT STORE 
Frank, Jack and Susie dash through a cavernous downtown department store, the brothers turning a few heads with their tuxedoes.  As they reach the ladies' department, Frank begins to flip through the dress racks. 
SUSIE If you ask me, this is pretty stupid. 
FRANK Just look.  What do you wear? A nine? 
SUSIE (offended) A seven. 
FRANK My wife wears a seven.  You don't look like a seven to me. 
SUSIE I wear a seven. 
FRANK Okay, okay.  Here, how about this? 
SUSIE (looking) Save it for your wife. 
FRANK We're not exactly silly with time, you know.  Jack, you find anything? 
Jack, somewhat out of his element, is looking at belts. 
JACK No. 
FRANK Here, how's this? 
Frank holds out an inky black dress.  Susie gives it a long look. 
FRANK (continuing) Close enough.  Let's go. 
Frank begins to drag Susie into the dressing room. 
SUSIE Hey, pal.  I don't know about you, but where I come from there's a little girl's room and a little boy's room and the little boys don't go where the little girls go. 
FRANK All right, but make it quick. (remembering) Shoes!  What size do you wear? 
SUSIE (from the dressing room) Nine. 
FRANK Nine? 
SUSIE Nine! 
FRANK (to himself) Big feet. 
INT.  SHOE DEPARTMENT 
Frank and Jack work the shoe department, scouting the endless rows. 
FRANK See anything? 
JACK (holding one up) How about these? 
FRANK Jack, for crying out loud.  Your bachelorhood's showing. (seeing something) Ah, here we go. 
Frank grabs a pretty blue pump and gestures to the SALESMAN, who's waiting on a woman. 
FRANK Hey!  Do these come in black? 
SALESMAN I'll be with you in a minute, sir. 
FRANK I don't have a minute, pal.  Yes or no? 
SALESMAN (glowering) Yes.  They come in black. 
FRANK Okay.  Give me a pair of nines. Pronto. 
The Salesman looks casually at Jack. 
SALESMAN Does he want a pair, too? 
INT.  DRESS DEPARTMENT 
As Jack and Frank return to the dress department, Frank jettisons the shoebox and tissue paper. 
FRANK All right, we got your shoes. 
Just then, Susie steps out of the dressing room. Even Frank stops at the sight of her. 
SUSIE What do you think? 
FRANK Uh... good. 
SUSIE (turning to Jack) Zip me up? 
The dress is open down to the small of her back. It's a nice back. Jack takes the zipper and closes the panels carefully. 
SUSIE (continuing) Shoes? 
FRANK Right. 
Frank puts the shoes down and Susie steps into them. 
SUSIE They're tight. 
FRANK They're nines. 
SUSIE Well, they're aspiring to be sevens. 
FRANK You can buy new ones tomorrow. 
SUSIE Oh, thanks. 
A BELLBOY exits the elevator and, hearing Susie's voice coming from the lounge, stops. He looks to the CLERK behind the front desk. 
BELLBOY I thought the Bakers were on tonight. 
CLERK They are. 
BELLBOY Well, who's that? 
The Clerk looks up from the register and listens. 
CLERK I don't know.  Frank? 
INT.  LOUNGE 
Judging from the faces, Susie's as big a hit in the lounge as she is in the lobby.  Head thrown back, eyes closed, she sings with abandon, finishing on a long extended note, then swooping down in a dramatic, exhausted bow.  There is a split second of silence, then thunderous applause.  Magic. 
EXT.  HOTEL 
The new trio, fresh off their first gig, come out of the service entrance into the night. 
FRANK Fucking.  She says fucking in front of an entire room of people. 
SUSIE I said I was sorry. 
FRANK (to Jack) Did you hear it? 
JACK Fucking. 
SUSIE Look, they were all on their third Mai Tais by the time I got out there anyway. 
FRANK (directly to her) Fucking. 
SUSIE For Christ sake, I said it, I didn't do it. (pulling out some bills) Besides, I don't think they were too offended, do you? 
FRANK (grabbing the bills) Give me that. 
SUSIE Hey! 
FRANK We are not a saloon act.  We do not take tips from dirty old men. 
SUSIE (innocent) I was gonna split it with you guys. 
FRANK We do not take tips.  I'll apply this to the cost of the dress. 
Frank puts the money in his pocket.  Susie stares at him, steaming. 
SUSIE Then I want my name on the poster. And my picture! (taking off her shoes) And these shoes are too goddamn tight! 
Susie hurls the shoes at Frank and stalks off barefoot. Jack is leaning against the wall, watching it all with amusement. 
JACK Nice girl. 
ON Frank's expression we hear the OPENING NOTES of "New York, New York" and we see: 
SERIES OF SHOTS 
Susie and the boys performing it in one lounge after another, playing to increasingly enthusiastic audiences, no empty tables now. 
As the SONG ends, we CLOSE ON the cardboard stand-up, newly done over with a picture of Susie and an accompanying exclamation: "See the Sensational Susie Diamond!" As the FINAL CHORD sounds we -- 
CUT TO: 
INT.  LLOYD'S OFFICE 
Jack and Frank, once again in the office of the supercilious Lloyd, waiting as he prepares their cash envelope. 
LLOYD Yes, sir.  That's quite a girl you boys latched onto.  She a local? 
FRANK Born and bred. 
LLOYD Lucky for you.  Well, there you go, guys. Don't spend it all in one place. Oh ... you want to count it, Jack? 
FRANK We trust you, Lloyd.  You know that. 
Frank takes the envelope and begins to leave. 
LLOYD Say, Frankie.  Since I've got you here... How's next week look for you guys? 
Frank glances at Jack, giving it to him. Jack's eyes go cold. 
JACK We'll call you. 
As Lloyd's face drops, Jack and Frank step into the hallway and begin to walk slowly away, playing it cool, then glance at one another and begin to walk faster because they're about to burst out laughing. 
FOLLOWING SHOT 
By the time they reach the lobby, they are laughing, tripping across the carpet, out the front entrance and onto the sidewalk, where their voices explode in the night air and they begin to do a weird boyish waltz together, laughing giddily, until they see - standing under an awning, lighting a cigarette - Susie, watching them with raised eyebrows.  Jack and Frank, frozen in a clumsy embrace, quickly disengage and begin clearing their throats and squaring their cuffs.  Susie exhales a plume of smoke, studies them a moment, then smiles slightly. 
SUSIE Night, Bakers. 
As she turns away, Jack glances up, watching her trim shadow disappear down the street. 
EXT.  CITY 
Gray and cold.  The streets swept with rain. And once again the tentative piano: "JINGLE BELLS, jingle bells, jingle all the way. Oh what fun it is to ride ... Oh what fun it is to ride ... Oh what fun..." 
INT.  VETERINARY CLINIC 
Jack and Eddie are sitting in the waiting room: small and dirty and packed with pet owners and their animals. After a moment, a WOMAN with a clipboard appears. 
WOMAN Barker. (no takers) Jock Barker? 
JACK (realizing it's him) Baker.  Jack Baker. 
JACK Yeah. 
FRANK Well, the line's growing weaker, little brother. Lucky for us there aren't any dragons left to slay. 
INT.  LOBBY 
Jack and Frank step out into the lobby, thus giving a few people, Susie among them, the curious privilege of seeing Santa Claus exit a men's room. 
FRANK You want to come out to the house tomorrow? The way the bookings been piling up, Donna's decided to really lay it on.  Turkey, stuffing, the whole bit.  Kitchen's so full of food you can hardly move.  We could use another appetite. 
JACK Thanks, but I've got plans. 
FRANK All right, but if you change your mind, let me know.  I gotta go get Ma in the morning anyway. 
SUSIE (coming up) Well, well.  Ho, ho, ho.  You moonlighting at Macy's, Frank? 
FRANK For the kids. (moving off) Merry Christmas, you two.  Don't forget.  We leave the twenty-sixth. 
Frank pushes through the revolving door and steps out into the street in his Santa suit. 
SUSIE He do that every year? 
JACK Every year. 
SUSIE Aren't the kids asleep? 
JACK Every year. 
SUSIE So why's he do it? 
JACK I guess in case one year they're not. 
Jack looks into Susie's eyes, then crosses to the door and exits.  Susie watches him go, then turns to the desk clerk. 
SUSIE Call me a cab, will ya? 
INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT 
As Jack enters his apartment, he senses a presence in the room and looks over to the old phone booth. Nina is sitting inside on the little stool, her head tilted against the glass.  Jack studies her a moment, then takes the carton of eggnog he's carrying into the kitchen and grabs a pair of glasses.  He pulls a chair over to the phone booth and sits down. 
NINA How'd the show go? 
JACK Okay.  How'd yours go? 
NINA Not so good. 
Jack looks at Nina's face, tender and young in the soft shadows of the booth.  After a moment, her eyes shift to the carton in his hand. 
NINA Eggnog? 
Jack nods. 
NINA (continuing) From Hurley's? 
JACK Eighty proof. What d'ya say? Think you can handle it? 
Nina nods. Jack begins to fill the two glasses. 
NINA Jack. 
JACK Yeah? 
NINA Can I stay here tonight?  Even if she comes here? 
Jack pauses a moment, then closes the carton and sets it aside. 
JACK Sure. 
He hands Nina her glass, then takes his own. 
NINA Merry Christmas, Jack. 
JACK Merry Christmas. 
INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT - NEXT MORNING 
Jack and Nina are standing in the middle of the room, looking down at something. 
NINA What do you think? 
Eddie, outfitted in a brand new, spanking red dog sweater, stares up at Jack and Nina, wondering why he's the object of so much attention. 
JACK Very cool. 
EXT. CEMETERY - JACK, NINA AND EDDIE (sporting his new sweater) 
make their way across an empty cemetery. Nina is swinging a bottle of whiskey. 
NINA (looking around) There were more flowers last year.  Mr. Rinaldi down at the drugstore says it's going to snow by New Year's.  Says he can feel it in his elbows. I hope it snows.  I want to make a snowman. You ever make a snowman, Jack? 
JACK Sure. 
NINA That's what I want to do. I want to make a snowman. 
As they come to a plot of ground, they stop. There are two matching headstones, one for Jack's father, fully engraved, and another for Jack's mother, bearing only her name.  Jack studies the plot a moment, then crouches before his father's marker: "ANDREW S. BAKER. Adoring Husband of Eleanor, Loving Father of Franklin and John." Jack brushes some dirt from the face of the stone, then stands. 
NINA (continuing) Now? 
Jack nods.  Nina uncaps the whiskey bottle and pours it onto the dead man's grave. 
NINA (continuing) Merry Christmas, Mr. Baker. 
They stand another moment, just looking, then turn away. As they begin to walk, Jack sees Eddie in his new sweater sniffing at a gravestone. 
SUSIE Smells like fish. 
FRANK Of course it smells like fish. We're on the ocean. What'd you expect, Chanel number five? 
SUSIE (to herself) Smells like tuna number two to me. 
FRANK It's paradise.  That's what it is. Paradise. 
As Susie and Jack follow Frank up the drive, Jack notices the beat-up Eldorado in the parking lot, its toilet paper streamers blowing gently in the ocean breeze. 
INT.  HOTEL LOBBY 
The lobby is done in royal reds and blues and there are a lot of swords on the walls. Franks steps up to the front desk. 
FRANK Hi, we're the Fabulous Baker Boys. 
CLERK Glad to meet you.  I'm Terrific Tom. 
FRANK No. We're the entertainment. 
TOM (CLERK) Oh, right, gotcha.  You got bags? 
FRANK Outside.  Blue Chevy. 
TOM (ringing a bell) Cyril.  Chevy.  Blue.  Take 'em up to the Guinevere Suite. 
A lanky boy in velvet jodhpurs and high stockings ambles out for the bags.  Tom hands Frank the room keys. 
TOM (continuing) Right on the ocean, Mr. Baker. You can practically dangle your toes in the water. 
INT.  SUITE 
Tom wasn't kidding.  The immediacy of the ocean beyond the window is almost scary. 
FRANK You believe this?  I'm telling you, we're getting away with murder.  Two shows a night and the rest of the time we live like kings.  It's a crime. 
Jack stares at the ocean, then at the two beds placed side by side.  Suddenly Susie comes through the bathroom. 
SUSIE Hey, we're connected. 
FRANK Great. 
SUSIE Great? 
FRANK Yeah. 
Susie shrugs and returns to her room through the bathroom. 
JACK I thought we had separate rooms. 
FRANK (opening drawers) We do.  She's got hers, we've got ours. Hey. Wash and Dries. 
JACK I thought we all had separate rooms. 
FRANK Come on, Jack.  It's not like it's the first time we've bunked together.  It'll be like when we were kids.  Relax.  Enjoy the view. 
INT.  DINING ROOM 
Jack, Frank and Susie are in the dining room, which, like their rooms, looks out over the ocean. Dinner is over and they're well through a second bottle of wine. 
SUSIE You're kidding me. 
FRANK As Charlie Steinway is my witness. 
SUSIE Peggy Lee? 
FRANK Tell her. 
JACK She was staying at the Grand downtown ... 
FRANK It was April.  April seventeenth. That one I remember. 
JACK We were playing the lounge one night and she came in. 
FRANK Pearls.  White gown.  Beautiful. 
JACK Frank asked if she'd sit in for a song, she said yes, and we did a few bars. 
FRANK A few bars! 
SUSIE What'd she sing? 
FRANK People.' You think Streisand, right? Hot that night.  Chills. Through the whole audience.  I could hardly play. 
SUSIE Wow. You ever see her again? 
FRANK No. We got a picture, though. One of the waitresses had a camera. (to Jack) God, we were just kids.  That was something, wasn't it? 
Jack nods.  Frank shakes his head, still lost in the spring evening years before, then notices the newlyweds sitting across the room. 
FRANK (continuing) Hey, will you look at that? 
SUSIE They must've bought the same map we did. 
FRANK What do you say we send a bottle over? 
SUSIE I don't believe it.  You're a romantic, Frank. 
JACK He's drunk. 
FRANK Not true.  Besides, Jack's the romantic. 
SUSIE Oh yeah? 
JACK What? 
FRANK Thinking there's someone who looks like you, walking around the street somewhere. (smiling) Wonder if I saw him I'd think it was you? 
EXT.  HOTEL - DAY 
Jack is standing on the walkway that encircles the hotel, watching the waves tumble into one another. As he starts to take out a cigarette, he notices Florence Simmons standing a few yards away with a camera. 
FLORENCE SIMMONS I just know my sister won't believe me. Do you mind? 
Jack shakes his head and Florence starts to aim the camera. 
FLORENCE SIMMONS I really hate to impose.  It's just that the resemblance is so extraordinary. (focusing) I wonder if you could turn this way so your face isn't in the shadows. 
As Jack turns, he glances over Florence's swaying shoulder and sees Susie and a man standing at the other end of the walkway.  They are leaning into the wind, her hair blowing free, brushing the man's face. 
FLORENCE SIMMONS Say cheese. 
The camera clicks. 
FLORENCE SIMMONS (continuing) Gotcha.  Would you like a copy for yourself?  The hotel develops. 
Jack glances away from Susie and the man. 
JACK No. 
ON Jack's expression APPLAUSE is heard and a moment later we -- 
CUT TO: 
INT.  DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
That evening.  The trio has just finished a song and those on the dance floor are clapping. 
FRANK Thank you.  You know, before we came out here this evening, Susie and Jack and I were looking over your dedications and something struck us. 
Susie and Jack look at Frank as if they have no idea what he's talking about. 
FRANK (continuing) We realized that, well, we're really not so different from one another after all.  Oh sure, we may be at different points in our journey, but we all travel pretty much the same road. And so, with that in mind, we'd like to introduce you to two very special couples.  First, married for all of two days, please say hello to Helen and Bud Wilson.  Helen.  Bud. 
Those standing on the dance floor applaud as the young couple from the beat-up Eldorado make their way to the front of the room. 
FRANK (continuing) And now, our second couple.  I'm talking about Ethel and Bert Lane, ladies and gentlemen.  Now, Ethel and Bert would be upset with me if I told you they'd been married for fifty years.  Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, Ethel and Bert Lane have been married for seventy-five years! 
The audience lets go with an audible "ooh" and applauds enthusiastically. 
FRANK (continuing) Ethel, Bert.  Get up here and show these kids how it's done. 
A path is cleared and a tiny couple begins to make their way to the dance floor. 
FRANK (continuing) Aren't they a sight? 
They are indeed, and a sight slower getting to the dance floor than Frank anticipated. 
He nods to Jack and they launch into "The Anniversary Waltz," but have to keep repeating the opening passage while they wait for Ethel and Bert.  Finally, everyone on the dance floor steps back and, with some help from a few waiters, who slide a section of tables out of the way, Ethel and Bert Lane begin to dance in the center of the room, slowly but wonderfully, while the younger couple whirls around them like a youthful satellite. 
INT.  BATHROOM 
Jack is sitting in the bathroom again, smoking.  He hears Susie's door open, then VOICES -- hers and a man's.  He puts out his cigarette in the sink and leaves. 
INT.  HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY 
The next morning.  Frank, the early bird, is returning to the room with a newspaper under his arm. Whistling happily, he rounds the corner just in time to see a man exit Susie's room.  Astonished, then outraged, he goes to Susie's door and knocks sharply. 
SUSIE (opening door) Forget your tie, handsome ... Frank! 
FRANK You want to tell me what the hell's going on? 
SUSIE Huh? 
FRANK I just saw a man walk out of your room. 
SUSIE Uh ... 
FRANK In case you've forgotten, we're being paid to be here.  So it might be nice if you conducted yourself with a certain amount of decency. 
SUSIE Decency?  Hey listen, pal ... 
FRANK No. You listen.  I had my doubts about you from the beginning 
JACK Hey! 
Frank and Susie turn.  Jack is standing in the hallway. 
JACK (continuing) What're you trying to do?  Wake up the whole goddamn hotel? 
FRANK We were just having a little discussion about morality. 
SUSIE Some discussion. 
FRANK I just saw a man walk out of your room! 
JACK You saw wrong. 
FRANK Huh? 
JACK He's with the hotel.  I called him. 
FRANK What are you talking about? 
JACK We had a leak in the bathroom. He fixed it. 
FRANK He was wearing a suit. 
FRANK Right.  It's incredible how you do that.  Remember things. 
JACK A useless talent. 
FRANK Drove me crazy when we were kids. The way you never looked at the music. Miss Simpson would just play it and ... 
Frank snaps his fingers. 
JACK They were simple songs. 
FRANK Not for me.  I still have to look at the music sometimes, you know that?  Otherwise, I forget. I just forget.  But you.  You never forget. Ever. (turning) So how come you couldn't remember Ma's birthday? 
JACK I told you.  It's a useless talent. 
Frank studies Jack a moment, then stares out at the ocean. 
FRANK God, the old man would've loved this view, wouldn't he? 
JACK Yeah. 
FRANK I always think of him on New Year's. How he used to pour us each half a can of beer. Remember? 
JACK You always threw up. 
FRANK Yeah, and you drank yours like it was orange juice. He loved that about you. 
JACK He was just having fun. 
FRANK It was like you'd passed some test, you know? 
JACK It was just a can of beer, Frank. 
FRANK Yeah, but he told you things.  He never told me anything.  Even though I was the oldest. It was always you two, running off, doing things together. 
JACK You could've come. 
FRANK I could've.  But he didn't want me to. 
JACK You're making things up, Frank. 
FRANK Maybe so. (pause) You ever go back there?  Where it happened. 
Jack stares at the angry SEA, LOUD even through the thick glass. 
JACK No. 
EXT.  HOTEL - DAY 
The next morning.  Jack is sitting outside the hotel, watching HELEN and BUD WILSON pack up the Eldorado. The streamers, by now turned to mush, cling like oatmeal to the car's exterior.  After a moment, Frank exits with a little bag from the gift shop and pulls out a tiny souvenir shot glass. 
FRANK Want one? 
Jack shakes his head. 
FRANK (continuing) Ah well, the kids'll break a couple anyway. 
Suddenly, across the parking lot, the voices of the newlyweds are heard. 
BUD Give me the keys. 
HELEN You're not going to drive. 
BUD Give me the keys! 
HELEN You're not going to drive! 
BUD It's my goddamn car! 
HELEN It's our goddamn car! 
BUD Give me the keys. 
HELEN No. 
Bud hesitates, then makes a rush for his wife, but she's too quick and runs to the other side of the car. Frustrated, he begins to run around the car like a madman, trying to catch her.  Finally, when he gets close, she darts off, sprinting across the parking lot. 
FRANK I think I'll warm up the car. 
OVERVIEW - CITY 
Cold, dark, dangerous, but somehow looking quite appealing after a week in paradise. 
INT. CAR - NIGHT 
The trio, looking road-weary, is parked in front of Jack's building.  It is very late. 
FRANK That takes care of this week.  The tenth we got the Sheraton, the sixteenth we're at the Capri. 
JACK The tenth's out. 
FRANK What? 
JACK I can't make the tenth. 
FRANK What do you mean? 
JACK I mean maybe you should check with us before you go off and book us a month in advance. 
FRANK Be reasonable, Jack. 
JACK I play two hundred nights a year with you, Frank. How much more reasonable you expect me to be? 
Jack gets out of the car.  Frank shakes his head in exasperation, then looks to Susie. 
JACK Nothing. 
SUSIE What'd I say? 
JACK Nothing. 
SUSIE You're upset. 
JACK I'm not upset. 
SUSIE All I said was you were good. 
JACK (stops) Look. You don't know good. All right? 
SUSIE What's that supposed to mean? 
JACK It means you wouldn't know good if it came up and fucked you. 
SUSIE You were good. 
JACK Let's make a deal.  You shut up. 
SUSIE You were good. 
JACK (exasperated) How do you know? 
SUSIE (yelling) Because I saw the other people! And they knew you were good! You were good, goddamnit! 
Jack studies Susie, then glances off.  For a moment, they just stand on the corner, not talking. 
SUSIE (continuing) So you wanna get a drink? 
INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT 
JACK Nina? 
SUSIE Who's Nina? 
JACK Friend. 
SUSIE Friend?  What's she look like? Maybe I can help you find her. 
JACK She's four feet tall.  Ed? 
SUSIE Ed? How many people live here? 
Eddie walks around the couch and looks curiously at Susie.  Jack moves to the kitchen. 
JACK I have to make him some chili. Okay? 
SUSIE (a look) Sure. 
INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT - LATER 
Light from a weak lamp, lots of shadows, as romantic as Jack's apartment will ever get.  Outside the window, the city looks like a thousand jewels, gleaming. 
Susie cradles a drink in her hand as she moves slowly about the room, slipping, in and out of the shadows as if they were veils. 
SUSIE (at window) Like diamonds, huh?  I never get over it. When I was a little girl, my mama'd stand me before the window and tell me to close my eyes and make a wish.Like I could reach out and grab all the lights of the city and string them into-a necklace for myself.  She'd take my hand and when she closed her eyes, I don't know, it was like she really believed it. 
JACK How come you didn't close your eyes? 
She looks surprised by the question. 
SUSIE I don't know.  I guess I didn't trust the night like she did. 
Susie finishes her drink and sets it down. 
SUSIE (continuing) Let me have a cigarette, will you? All of mine are down there on the sidewalk. 
Jack looks at her curiously. 
SUSIE (continuing) Long story. 
Jack gives her an American cigarette and lights it. 
SUSIE (continuing) You know, I saw you guys once. You and Frank.  At the Roosevelt. 
JACK Must've been a cheap date. 
SUSIE Soap convention. 
JACK Soap? 
SUSIE Yeah, they got a convention for everything. At least he was clean.  Boy, the guys I met when I was with the service, you wouldn't believe.  The older ones, they were okay.  Nice.  Polite.  Pulled the chair out for you.  But the younger ones ... (shaking her head) Mama used to say, dance with a man once, but if you can feel calluses on his fingers, don't dance with him again.  She thought she had it all figured out. But she wasn't so smart.  There are killers with palms like a baby. 
Susie takes a long draw and blows the smoke out slowly. 
SUSIE (continuing) It wasn't so bad, though.  I'd get a nice piece of steak, flowers, sometimes even a gift.  Usually whatever the guy was into.  Got a socket set once. Believe it?  The guy looked like held just given me four dozen roses. (almost wistful) But I stayed at the Hartford once.  You should see the rooms.  All satin and velvet.  And the bed. Royal blue, trimmed in lace clean as snow.  Hard to believe sleeping in a room like that don't change your life.  But it don't.  The bed may be magic, but the mirror isn't.  You wake up the same old Susie. (pause) I didn't always, you know.  If I liked the guy ... 
Susie looks at Jack, but he just takes a drink.  She looks out the window again. 
SUSIE (continuing) Sometimes I wish the sun would never come up. 
She stares at the lights another moment, then turns and nods to the phone booth. 
SUSIE (continuing) So what's this? 
Jack frowns, takes another drink. 
JACK History. 
SUSIE Huh? 
SUSIE (continuing) The reason I came by ... I couldn't tell Frank... I'm leaving.  The act. 
Susie stares up at Jack, but he says nothing. 
SUSIE (continuing) It's a ... I met this guy at the resort.  He liked my voice.  And, it's ... He thinks I can sell cat food just by singing about it.  Can you believe it? 
Susie tries a laugh.  Jack nods. 
SUSIE (continuing) You can always get another girl. 
JACK (looks out window) There's always another girl. 
INT.  LOUNGE 
Jack and Frank stand in a lounge, talking to NICK, the manager.  Busboys move in and out, preparing the room for the evening. 
NICK Sick?  How sick? 
FRANK The flu. 
NICK So she's got a few sniffles. 
FRANK Doctor's orders. 
Nick frowns, looking at the two pianos across the room. 
NICK You got no right springing this on me, Frankie. It's unethical. 
FRANK Look, Nick.  You want us to pack up, we'll pack up. 
NICK What am I gonna do?  Put a record player out there? (exiting) Bad, Frankie.  Bad. 
JACK (to Frank) What're you doing? 
FRANK Just until we find another girl. 
JACK Cancel, Frank. 
FRANK You want to know how much I got tied up in deposits with Willie?  We're in for three weeks solid, Jack. 
JACK Better give her pneumonia. 
INT.  BACK ROOM 
Jack and Frank find themselves in the back room of Willie's again.  They do not look happy. 
GIRL (O.S.) Remember me? 
Jack and Frank look up.  A girl in a yellow and black dress is in the doorway.  She looks like a bumblebee. 
GIRL Monica.  Monica Moran.  I came in the last time you guys were looking for a singer. (smiling) Perseverance.  First rule of show business. 
Jack and Frank just stare at her. 
MONICA (GIRL) I bought a book.  That's what it says. 
EXT.  WILLIE'S - LATER 
Frank is looking at a list. 
FRANK We got the Roosevelt on Thursday, the Park in a couple of weeks.  Larry Shelton said he'd let me know by Friday on the Ambassador.  That's it. 
Frank folds the paper carefully. 
FRANK (continuing) I got some calls out.  Things that might be good for us. 
Frank looks over at Jack for the first time.  He's leaning against the building, staring at his shoes. 
FRANK (continuing) We'll try for a girl again next week. 
Jack nods. 
FRANK (continuing) Okay.  Well, the Roosevelt then. 
INT.  ROOSEVELT HOTEL - LOUNGE 
Once grand, now dark and dusty looking.  A small crowd. 
FRANK You know, my brother and I have been playing together, gosh, I don't know.  Jack? 
JACK Twenty-eight years. 
No response.  Bored, brutally indifferent faces. 
FRANK Of course, uh, back then it was, uh, a little different.  We were just kids.  Just about the only one who would listen to us was the family cat, Cecil.  We must've shaved three lives off old Cecil, huh, Jack? 
Frank laughs and his voice, eerily magnified by the microphone, is the only sound in the room. 
FRANK (continuing; hanging tough) Yeah, well, anyway.  It's nice to be back here in the Roosevelt Room, because this has always been ... 
Frank falters as he sees Mrs. Baker enter the lounge and seat herself at a table in the back of the room. Jack follows Frank's eyes and spots her. 
FRANK (continuing) a very special place for Jack and I. (recovering) And tonight we'd like to open with a very special song.  It's the song my mother and father danced to the night they were married.  This is for them. 
INT.  LOBBY 
Jack watches as Frank gives Mrs. Baker a hug. 
FRANK You should've told us you were coming, Ma. We would've come and got you. 
MRS.  BAKER Spur of the moment. 
FRANK So what'd you think? 
FRANK I don't know. Some disease. 
JACK What disease? 
FRANK I don't know. 
JACK You don't know? 
FRANK It's a disease, Jack.  We're against it. It's not a moral decision. 
JACK (another pause) What channels it on? 
FRANK Seventy-one 
JACK Seventy-one?  What's seventy-one? 
FRANK (defensive) A channel. It's just a little further down the dial, that's all. Look, it's publicity.  Publicity's publicity.  Right? 
Jack stares at Frank. 
JACK Right. 
INT.  HALLWAY 
Jack and Frank make their way down a hallway. 
FRANK The guy said to find Studio E and turn right.  What's that say? 
Suddenly, a rapid-fire THUMPING SOUND resounds through the corridor.  As Jack and Frank turn, they see a huge YOUTH in a wheelchair dribbling a basketball toward them. 
YOUTH Fast break! 
Jack and Frank step back and watch the kid one-wheel it around the corner. 
FRANK I guess it's that way. 
INT.  STUDIO 
Jerry Lewis need not fear.  This is strictly a tin foil and crepe paper operation. Along one wall is the "phone bank," monitored by a few sleepy volunteers, and opposite, in makeshift bleachers, is the audience.  A huge tote board, set on rolling astors, is next to the phones.  The total, at 2:15 AM, is $1125.38. As Jack and Frank enter, the kid in the wheelchair is doing basketball tricks before the camera. 
FRANK This must be it.  I'll see when we're on. 
Frank leaves. Jack glances around the studio like he's walked into a nightmare.  At the phone bank, a heavyset MAN in a sweatshirt and a cap, looks over.  Both the sweatshirt and the cap have "Earl" printed on them. 
EARL (MAN) You the magician? 
JACK No. 
EARL (disappointed) Oh.  What do you do? 
Jack points to the pianos across the room. 
JACK Piano. 
EARL (hopeful) Two at a time? 
JACK My brother and I. One each. 
EARL (disappointed again) Oh. 
JACK (indicating the kid in the wheelchair) What's wrong with the kid? 
EARL Knee.  Tore it up against St. Anthony's.  Right before the accident. 
JACK Accident? 
EARL The fire.  The way we're going we'll be lucky to buy a carton of jockstraps, let alone a new gym. 
As Jack registers this, Earl's PHONE RINGS.  Frank returns and gestures to the kid in the wheelchair. 
FRANK We're on after Meadowlark. (seeing Jack's face) What's wrong? 
JACK Are you kidding me?  Are you fucking kidding me? 
FRANK What? 
JACK We're playing for a goddamn gymnasium! 
FRANK (worried) What? 
Before Jack can further enlighten Frank, the kid in the wheelchair rolls off and a guy in a cheap rented tux strides in front of the camera.  He's VINCE NANCY, the host. 
VINCE Let's hear it for our own Jimmy Marshall, shall we? 
The audience applauds. 
VINCE (continuing) As most of you'know, young Jimmy put a nasty twist on that knee trying to win-one for good ol' Grant High this year.  Luckily, the doctors tell us Jimmy'll be able to play next season.  That is ... if there is a next season. (Uncle Sam) That's where you come in.  Pick up that phone. Make a donation.  Let's keep our kids off the streets and in the gym where they belong. 
Applause. 
VINCE (continuing) All right.  Well, friends, what can I say about our next guest? (consulting a card) He, uh, they, uh, we are very pleased to have with us two of the most respected men in the musical entertainment field.  I think you'll agree with me when I tell you we're in for a real treat when I say that we have with us ... the Fabulous Bunker Boys!  Come on out here guys. 
Vince gestures grandly to the left and Jack and Frank enter from the right. 
VINCE (continuing) Whoops, there they are.  Hey, nice suits, fellas. (to camera) Now I know a lot of you amateur musicians out there are going to want to rap with these guys and don't worry.  Right after they finish up here, they're going to be manning the phones.  Maybe we can even convince them to raffle off a few piano lessons if we're lucky.  What do you think? 
The audience applauds.  Jack glares at Frank.  He shrugs. 
VINCE (continuing) Well, all right then.  What are we waiting for?  Take it away, guys. 
Jack and Frank poise their hands over their pianos and begin to play.  As the music rises, the studio becomes very quiet, almost still.  Unfortunately, Jack and Frank are barely through the opening passage when a thunderously LOUD BELL begins to RING.  Suddenly, Vince steps out again. 
VINCE (continuing) Uh oh.  We know what that means, don't we?  It's time to turn the board over. (to Jack, Frank) I'm afraid you fellas'll just have to wait a minute. Let's bring out the board. 
FRANK (continuing; scared) Jack! ... Jack! ... 
Frank slides to the ground, afraid, trying to protect himself.  Jack hovers over him. 
JACK How's it feel to have your little brother beat the shit out of you?  Huh?  Huh! 
Jack comes down with a vicious fist at Frank's face. Frank holds up his hands, trying to shield himself, and catches a blow on his fingers. 
FRANK My hands!  My hands! 
Jack grabs one of Frank's hands. 
JACK (mocking) Your hands.  Your hands couldn't take the blue ribbon on amateur night. 
Jack bends back Frank's fingers. 
FRANK (terrified) Jack! 
JACK Who's weak now, big brother? 
Jack pushes Frank's fingers until the knuckles crack. 
FRANK Jack!  JACK! 
Frank's voice echoes high above the sound of the rain. Suddenly Jack stops.  Looking at Frank's hand, still clasped in his, he seems as shocked by his own behavior as Frank.  Letting go, he steps back awkwardly and looks at his brother, beaten, to the ground, his tuxedo ripped and dirty.  He stares at his own hands, the knuckles split and bleeding.  He no longer looks dangerous.  He looks hollow, frightened. 
JACK I'm through with it.  I can't do it anymore. 
Frank, rubbing his fingers, glances up at Jack, but Jack just turns away, leaving Frank on the sidewalk, and disappears into the rain.  MUSIC begins.  A sad, plaintive solo piano.  And we see: 
SERIES OF SHOTS 
Jack, crossing the street to his apartment, the rain over now. 
Frank, driving home, his face swollen and bruised in the dim glow of the streetlights. 
Jack, letting himself into his apartment and standing there.  Alone. 
Frank, easing the car into the driveway, turning off the engine. 
Jack, taking a bottle from the kitchen, moving numbly. 
Frank, much later, still sitting in the driveway as the sun begins to come up. 
Jack, sitting in the phone booth, the bottle in his hand. 
INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT - DAY 
The next morning.  Jack is sitting on the windowsill, watching the RAIN DRUM the GLASS.  He glances at the phone across the room, takes another look at the rain, then goes to the phone.  He picks it up hesitantly, then dials. It rings.  Again.  Again. 
CINDY (V.0.) Hello? 
Jack blinks.  It's Cindy. 
CINDY Hello ... Hellooooo ... (fainter) Daddy.  Daddy!  Someone's on the phone and they won't talk. 
Jack sets the phone back down on the cradle. 
INT.  BAR 
Jack stands in a dark bar.  It is early morning and the light from the street gives the room a ghostly atmosphere. A big, beefy MAN with a bar towel hooked in his belt is talking to Jack. 
MAN If they wanna talk about their wife, you listen. If they wanna talk about their job, you listen. If they wanna talk about their parakeet, you listen. That's it, six nights a week, nine to one or until I send you home.  Okay? 
Jack nods and points to the piano in the corner. 
JACK That it? 
MAN How many you need? 
Jack walks over to the giano and strikes a note. 
JACK It's out of tune. 
MAN Trust me, the way I fix a martini, it'll be in tune. 
The MUSIC RETURNS, sad and plaintive, and we see: 
INT.  FRANK'S HOUSE 
Frank, attempting to give piano lessons to a brother and sister tandem who would be better served by an obedience school.  While the little girl pounds incessantly on the piano, her brother runs circles around the room, destroying everything in sight. 
MUSIC CONTINUES and we see: 
EXT.  STREET Jack and Eddie, going for a walk, passing the diner where Jack and Frank's pictures are still displayed. 
MUSIC CONTINUES and we see: 
INT.  BAR 
Jack, in the bar, playing the music we've been hearing throughout the previous scenes.  It is after midnight and the tables are empty.  Only a few somber men remain at the bar.  They do not appear to be music lovers. As Jack finishes, he takes a cloth and wipes the keys. There is a glass on the piano with money in it. 
SUSIE (O.S.) I thought the Bakers didn't take tips. 
Jack glances up, but he knows the voice. 
JACK I give it all to charity. 
Susie nods. 
SUSIE Saw the sign outside.  Got your own sign, huh? 
JACK Yeah.  Got my own sign. 
INT.  APARTMENT HALLWAY 
Jack stands in an apartment hallway, waiting. After a moment, the door opens.  It's Susie. 
SUSIE Jack. 
JACK Hi. 
SUSIE Well, this is some surprise. (seeing his face) Hey ... You don't look so good, pal. 
Susie studies Jack as he glances around the hallway. 
SUSIE (continuing) Jack? 
Jack looks up. 
SUSIE (continuing) You want to come in? 
He nods.  Susie steps back and Jack enters. 
SUSIE (continuing) Let me get the light. 
JACK No. 
He stares directly into her eyes. 
JACK (continuing) Leave it dark. 
INT.  SUSIE'S BEDROOM - NEXT MORNING 
Jack is standing at the foot of the bed, looking down at Susie's naked back as she sleeps.  He studies her face as if looking for something, then takes his coat and begins to leave. 
SUSIE I used to do that. 
Jack turns.  Susie is looking at him. 
SUSIE (continuing) Sneak out in the morning.  Before the guy could wake up and ruin it.  Never figured I'd be on the other end of it, though. 
JACK I didn't want to wake you. 
SUSIE (smiling slightly) Yeah. 
JACK Thanks.  For letting me in last night. 
SUSIE Funny how life repeats itself, huh?  Over and over. Like a song. 
Jack looks at Susie for a long moment, then nods and turns for the door. 
SUSIE (continuing) Hey. 
Jack stops, his hand on the doorknob. 
SUSIE (continuing) Am I gonna see you again? 
Jack looks at her face, beautiful in the morning light. 
JACK Yeah.  You're gonna see me again. 
Susie smiles slightly. 
SUSIE Okay. 
EXT.  STREET 
Jack is standing across the street from his mother's house, just looking.  After a moment, he crosses the street.  As he moves up the drive, he takes notice of the tree growing in the front yard and crosses to it, kneeling by the trunk and studying the scars there -- cat's claws -- running vertically up the tree, the damage smoothed and widened by time.  He runs his fingers over the imperfection, then stands and walks toward the house. 
EXT.  HOUSE 
Through the screen door, Jack can hear a CLICKING sound and see partially into the front door.  Half the room is cast in shadow, the other in blinding light. He opens the door and enters. 
INT.  HOUSE 
Inside, the movie PROJECTOR is RUNNING, the tail of a completed FLIP SLAPPING like a whip against the carriage. Jack TURNS OFF the PROJECTOR and the room falls entirely into shadow.  For a moment, the house is silent, full of ghosts, then, gradually, a NOISE is heard coming from the kitchen. 
INT.  KITCHEN 
As Jack comes into the kitchen, he finds Frank searching through a cabinet.  He watches for a moment. 
JACK What're you looking for? 
Frank turns quickly, surprised. 
FRANK I didn't hear you come in. 
JACK What're you doing? 
FRANK Oh ... I was just hoping for something to drink.  But it seems the old lady was dry. Not even a bottle of cooking sherry. 
Jack nods.  Frank looks nervous. 
FRANK (continuing) Uh, we already boxed some things.  I figured you'd want to go through Dad's stuff.  It's in there. If you want to get started. 
JACK Later. 
Frank nods.  Silence. 
JACK (continuing) Is everything done?  The arrangements, I mean. 
FRANK Oh. Yeah.  It was all worked out before, you know. She and Dad had taken care of it. 
JACK Right. 
FRANK I set it for Wednesday.  The ceremony.  They're doing the stone today. (pause) It's okay?  Wednesday? 
