Family Man 
CHAPTER ONE - EARLY HISTORY 
1	INT. KENNEDY AIRPORT, PAN AM TERMINAL - NIGHT 
SUPER:  AUTUMN, 1987 
A line of PASSENGERS about to board a Pan Am flight to London. 
JACK CAMPBELL, 22, head full of long unkempt hair, Tom Selleck mustache,  the hopeful look of youth in his eyes... sitting next to... 
KATE REYNOLDS, 21, pretty, Dorothy Hamill haircut... rubbing the tears from  her swollen red eyes... 
KATE I got you a few necessities... 
Kate hands Jack a new copy of Vonnegut’s “Cat’s Cradle.” 
KATE  (CONT’D) Your copy was a mess... 
Jack accepts the book but he’s unable to take his eyes off Kate.  She hands him a cassette. 
KATE (CONT’D) Every one of these songs will remind you of me in a slightly different way... 
JACK All in one tape? 
KATE I also put side two of London Calling on there... 
Kate leans over and kisses him passionately on the lips. 
KATE  (CONT’D) That was not officially the goodbye kiss. It was just an interim kiss... 
He looks at her, his eyes welling up. He pulls her close, kissing her deeply. Then... 
ANNOUNCER (O.S.) This will be the final boarding call for Pan Am flight 4 to London, Heathrow. 
Jack takes Kate’s hand, getting up, turning sadly to the gate. 
KATE You have your ticket? 
Jack pulls out a BLUE PAN AM TICKET ENVELOPE.  Kate nods. They embrace and kiss again.  As they separate. 
JACK I’m not even gonna say it, Kate. Maybe it’ll be like I never left... 
Jack takes one lastlook at her, then heads for the gate. 
Kate stands there, watching him go.  Then... 
...a  moment of intuition. Something isn’t right. She looks at Jack, about to disappear into the jetway, trying to decide... 
KATE Wait. 
Jack turns. Kate approaches him. 
KATE (CONT’D) I have a bad feeling about this. 
JACK About the plane? What do you think it’s gonna crash? Don’t say that... 
KATE (shaking her head) I know we’ve talked about this a thousand times and we both agree that going to London is the right thing to do. But in my heart... this feels wrong. 
She looks at the gate...the last few passengers are boarding, then back into Jack’s eyes. 
KATE (CONT’D) Don’t  go, Jack... 
JACK You mean don’t go at all? What about my internship? 
KATE Believe me I know what an incredible opportunity this is for you... 
JACK For us, Kate. 
KATE Right, for us. But...I’m afraid that if you get on that plane... 
JACK What? 
Kate looks at him, pleading with her eyes, but she can’t say... 
KATE (torn) Go. I’m sorry, you should just go... 
JACK (thinking, then...) No, you’re right.  What are we doing? 
KATE We're being responsible.  Go. Get on the plane. 
His eyes narrow as he measures her determination... 
KATE (CONT'D) (a smile) Get the hell outta my sight. You bother me. 
A laugh from Jack.  Kate gives him a calm smile and a nod - it's not entirely convincing but it's enough for Jack. 
JACK (resolute) Okay, I'm going... 
He takes her in his arms one last time and hugs her tight.  Jack looks toward the gate, the line disappearing...Kate grasps his shirt tightly. 
KATE I can't seem to let go of you... 
JACK You hear me complaining about that? 
A sober look in Jack's eyes. 
JACK (CONT'D) Look, we're at the airport and no one ever thinks clearly at the airport so we should just trust the decision we already made.  You've been accepted to one of the best law schools in the country, I've got this internship at Barclay's Bank. We have a great plan, honey... 
Kate nods, then, with resolve... 
KATE You want to do something great, Jack?  Let's flush the plan...start our lives right now, today...I don't know what that life's gonna look like but I do know it has both of us in it.  And I choose us... 
Jack is jolted by her words. 
KATE (CONT'D) The plan doesn't make us great, Jack.  What we have together, that's what makes us great. 
Her words sink in...A long moment of decision...He looks toward the gate, only one person left in line...back to Kate...imploring him with her eyes. 
Finally...He kisses her deeply on the lips... 
Jack’s at the mirror in this incredibly neat marble- tiled bathroom, shaving with a silver-plated Hammacher Schlemmer razor, HUMMING with the orchestra... 
6	INT. JACK’S CLOSET - MORNING 
...the size of a small house, a long row of Zegna suits, shoe trees stacked with Italian shoes, tailored shirts everywhere. 
Jack’s still HUMMING to the music as he dresses in front of a mirror. 
7	INT. ELEVATOR - MORNING 
Jack, wearing an elegant camel’s hair overcoat and carrying a leather briefcase, a “Master of the Universe” smile on his face, now HUMMING the Bach piece from memory... 
The doors open at 6.  Jack self-consciously stops singing as ELIZABETH PETERSON, 60s, wearing a mink coat, gets on the elevator carrying a yappy little dog. 
JACK (a charming smile) Mrs. Peterson. 
MRS. PETERSON Hello Jack.  You don’t have to stop singing on my account... 
JACK It’s because I’m shy, Betty.  So, when are you going to leave that old corpse Mr. Peterson and run away with me? 
MRS. PETERSON You know you could never satisfy me the way he does... 
The doors open to the lobby.  Mrs. Peterson walks out ahead. 
8	INT. JACK’S BUILDING, LOBBY - MORNING 
TONY THE DOORMAN holds the door open for Jack and Mrs. Peterson... 
TONY THE DOORMAN Merry Christmas, Mr. Campbell. 
JACK How’d you do this year, Tony? 
TONY THE DOORMAN About four grand.  And a bottle of twenty five year old scotch from Mrs. Johnson in 9D.  I’m putting it all in commercial paper like you said. 
JACK Just until the Deutsche Mark turns... 
Jack exits the building... 
9   OMITTED 
9A	EXT. CENTRAL PARK - MORNING 
Jack’s Ferrari racing through the park... 
10	EXT. LASSITER BUILDING - MORNING 
A modern Wall Street building.  The sign above the glass doors reads, “P.K. Lassiter and Associates, Investment House.” 
The Ferrari SCREECHES to a halt.  Jack gets out, heads into the building... 
10A	INT. LASSITER BUILDING - CONTINUOUS 
...Jack throws his keys to a nearby SECURITY GUARD with a smile on his way to the elevators... 
CHAPTER THREE - JACK THE BUSINESSMAN 
DISSOLVE TO: 
11	INT. LASSITER BUILDING, CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY 
The Manhattan skyline shines through the windows of this beautiful conference room. 
SIX EXECUTIVES are seated at a huge oak table littered with coffee cups and lunch waste.  At the end of the table, ALAN MINTZ, 30s, balding, sits with a faraway look in his eyes, three empty Diet Coke cans in front of him. 
Mintz is poking at a shiny gold cherub dangling from a small, plastic Christmas tree, sitting in the middle of the table. 
Jack is addressing the group from the front of the room, standing in front of a computer with a huge flat screen monitor, covered with stock charts and tables... 
JACK ...if MedTech's shares sink any lower than... (casually executing a keystroke) ...forty three, we're in trouble with the stock valuation.  So for god's sake watch what you say to your institutional customers... 
Jack notices Alan Mintz playing with the cherub. 
JACK (CONT'D) ...we still have almost a full day of trading before zero hour and I don't want any trouble... (distracted by Mintz) ...penny for your thoughts, Alan... 
Alan looks up. 
ALAN Sorry, Jack.  I told Dee and the kids I'd be home by dinner.  You know, it being Christmas Eve and all. 
JACK Is that tonight? 
A LAUGH from the group.  Jack approaches Alan. 
JACK (CONT'D) You think I like being here on Christmas Eve, Alan? 
ALAN I don't know.  Maybe... 
Another LAUGH.  Even Jack lets out a good-natured chuckle. 
JACK Okay, maybe I do have a touch of tunnel vision this holiday season.  But in two days we're going to announce one of the largest mergers in U.S. corporate history.  Thirty billion dollars... (basking in the glory) When this kind of deal turns up you get on and you ride it `till it's over.  You don't ask it for a vacation... 
A chuckle from the group...the esprit de corps seems to energize Jack. 
JACK (CONT'D) (to the group) December 26th.  After that there'll be so much money floating around here it'll be like Christmas every day... (smiling) December 26th, people.  If you'd like to celebrate that day, you all have my blessing... 
Enthusiastic nods and words of agreement from the suits around the table... 
ALAN You're right, Jack.  Sorry... Jack approaches Alan. 
JACK I don't want you to be sorry, Alan, I want you to be excited.  I want my gift to be the first one you open this year.  You know why? 
ALAN Why Jack? 
JACK Because my gift comes with ten zeroes at the end... 
A MURMUR of excitement in the room, even Alan cracks a smile.  Jack puts a hand on Alan's shoulder. 
JACK (CONT'D) Good man... 
12	INT. LASSITER BUILDING CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
The conference room door opens and the SIX ENERGIZED SUITS emerge, each met by an ASSISTANT handing them messages. 
LASSITER You suddenly having trouble getting dates? 
JACK Not by a long shot. 
LASSITER Then leave it in the past. Old flames are like old tax returns.  You keep `em in the file cabinet for three years and then you cut `em loose. 
Jack shoots Adelle a satisfied smile, crumpling up Kate's message and tossing a perfect hook into a N.Y. Knicks hoop. 
JACK (to Adelle) I'll leave from the office tomorrow afternoon.  Call the group.  Schedule an emergency strategy session for noon. 
ADELLE That'll be a nice little holiday treat. 
15	EXT. LASSITER BUILDING - NIGHT 
A single light remains on in the building. 
16	INT. JACK'S OFFICE - SAME TIME 
Jack is alone in the office working on his computer, checking spreadsheets on a large flat screen monitor. 
Jack leans back in his chair rubbing his eyes.  He checks his watch.  It's past eleven.  He gets up, goes to the window, sees the city in all its Christmas glory, then he see it... 
...the message from Kate, crumpled in the trashcan...then turns back to the window, gazing out at the night... 
17	INT. LASSITER BUILDING - NIGHT 
Jack comes out of the elevator, walking past the lobby desk where FRANK, a security guard, sits watching the monitors. 
FRANK Mr. Campbell.  Why didn't you call down, I would've had Joe get your ride. 
Jack looks outside the front door to the snowy, quiet street. 
JACK I'm thinking I might walk tonight, Frank. 
FRANK Nice night for it.  I'll have Louis send your car home. 
A nod from Jack. 
FRANK (CONT'D) Merry Christmas to you, sir... 
JACK Thanks.  To you too... 
Jack puts on a pair of soft leather gloves and heads out into the crisp night air... 
18	EXT. LASSITER BUILDING - CONTINOUS 
Jack emerges from the building, walking across the large plaza, past the fountain...snow begins to fall... 
19	EXT. MANHATTAN STREET - A LITTLE LATER 
Jack's walking down the nearly empty street, snow falling down on him, a bounce in his step, looking at the windows of the closed shops along the way. 
He gets to the end of the block spots the Wong Brothers' 24 Hour Deli across the street... 
He heads toward it... 
20	INT. WONG BROTHERS' DELI - SECONDS LATER 
Jack walks into the brightly lit deli... 
SAM WONG, 20s, is with his 80-year-old GRANDFATHER behind the counter.  There's a NERDY COLLEGE KID at the salad bar, a drunken DEPARTMENT STORE SANTA at the liquor display, a WOMAN with a BABY in an aisle and... 
...a BLACK MAN, 30s, with a dollar sign and the name "CASH" tattooed on his arm, stands in front of the coffee machine... 
CASH Oh yeah...yeah, yee-ah!  She's a certified winner...paper- thin but good as gold... 
Jack notices Cash talking to himself, seemingly crazy. 
Jack approaches Sam Wong at the counter. 
JACK Egg nog? 
SAM WONG (pointing) Dairy case.  Five dollar. 
CASH (in the b.g., to Sam Wong) Y'all do the lotto here...? `Cause I got me a winner...I know, I know, Lotto keeps the black man down... but not me... 
Jack grabs a carton of egg nog, then notices Cash handing Sam Wong his ticket.  Jack heads back toward the counter... 
CASH (CONT'D) ...06...14...18...48...right there.  Four numbers...that's two hundred and thirty eight dollar... (a smile) Merry Christmas and shit... 
SAM WONG (barely looking at ticket) Ticket bad.  You draw in lines with pencil. 
CASH What're you talkin' about? 
SAM WONG (throwing the ticket back) You draw lines with pencil!  I know about this! 
The woman with the baby looks over...the college kid looks up, nervous...the drunken Santa, bottle of bourbon in hand, starts to walk by Jack...Jack instinctively puts an arm out, holding the Santa back... 
CASH What!?  Look at the ticket...! 
SAM WONG Get out, I call 911. 
The Santa looks at Jack, confused. 
CASH You're lookin' at me, you're not even lookin' at the ticket! 
The woman with the baby puts a loaf of bread back on the shelf, starts nervously inching toward the door. 
SAM WONG You leave now.  Take ticket somewhere else. (calling out) Next customer in line...! 
CASH You first generation, xenophobic, money-theistic, hot pastrami sandwich making... 
SAM WONG (screaming) Get out! 
Just watching...Cash shoves the ticket in Sam Wong's face... 
CASH LOOK AT THE GODDAMN TICKET!! 
A moment of decision for Jack.  Then... 
JACK (carefully) Let me see that ticket. 
CASH Wow.  It must be great being you.  You got it all. 
Cash looks at Jack.  He smiles and shakes his head. 
JACK Look, I'm not saying you'd be able to do it without some hard work... 
CASH (a hearty LAUGH) You still think this is about me, don't you? 
JACK Sure it's about you.  But it's about society, too. 
CASH Oh man, I'm gonna enjoy this one... Just remember, Jack, you did this.  You brought this on yourself... 
And with that, Cash turns and leaves Jack alone on the street with his egg nog... 
22	INT. JACK'S APARTMENT - LATE NIGHT 
Jack walks in and throws his keys on a table.  He takes off his gloves and overcoat, glances at the mail, then heads into the bedroom. 
Through the large windows we see snow falling... 
23	INT. JACK'S BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT 
Jack, flat on his back in bed, fast asleep... 
CHAPTER FOUR - A DIFFERENT LIFE 
DISSOLVE TO: 
24	INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE, MASTER BEDROOM - MORNING 
Close in on Jack’s face, bathed in morning light...he opens his eyes...feels something strange... 
Jack looks down...there’s a woman’s head resting on his chest. 
A look of confusion crosses his face...trying to remember... did he meet a woman last night...? 
He turns his head to find a large MUTT sitting faithfully beside the bed, wagging his tail... 
...did she have a dog? 
He looks down at the woman again, craning his neck to get a look at her face.  And then he sees her... 
...KATE REYNOLDS... 
...now 34 and even more beautiful, a look of utter contentment on her radiant face, sleeping soundly... 
His head darts around the room - it’s cramped and lived in, clothes and toys are strewn about, family photos on the dresser, Laura Ashley curtains, a tiny poster bed and a charming little bay window. 
He instinctively reaches for his Franck Mueller watch on the night stand, but it’s not there.  It’s a Timex Indiglo and it reads, “7:57 A.M...” 
Jack looks back at Kate...he rubs his eyes...maybe it’s a dream...but nothing changes.  Then, Kate stirs... 
KATE Mmmm...ten more minutes, Jack... it’s Christmas... 
Jack jumps as he hears Kate talk for the first time... 
Suddenly, the door bursts open...A SIX YEAR OLD GIRL, ANNIE, in a little nightgown, walks into the room carrying an 18 MONTH OLD BOY, JOSH, SINGING at the top of her lungs... 
ANNIE Jingle bells, Santa s mells, Rudolph laid an egg...la la la, la-la la la, la la la la la... 
Annie places Josh on the bed and then jumps up herself.  She gestures to the dog, patting the bed. 
ANNIE (CONT’D) You too, Luce... 
The dog faithfully jumps on the tiny bed, joining everybody else and leaving very little room.  Annie starts jumping. 
ANNIE (CONT’D) Rise...and...shine...! 
KATE (stirring) You’re jumping, sweetheart... 
Jack looks at this activity like a man at his own funeral. 
ANNIE Mom, don’t you think we need to open the presents? 
KATE (groggy) Mommy needs five more minutes in la la land. That could be her present... 
Josh crawls directly up to Jack’s stomach, climbing on. 
ANNIE C’mon, Dad.  Get up! 
She said “Dad.” 
That’s it.  Jack moves the baby gingerly over, then gets out of bed, stumbling over a baseball bat lying next to it. 
He picks up the bat...the same Willie Mays autograph bat that was encased in glass in his N.Y. apartment. 
Frightened, Jack drops the bad, looking down at himself for the first time...he’s naked... 
...a mortified look on his face as he sees the kids on the bed... 
...he quickly grabs a pair of sweat pants and a yellow cardigan off the chair and throws them on... 
Kate, still half asleep, reaches out her hand. 
KATE Jack...? 
Jack turns by instinct.  Kate grabs him, drawing him near.  A look of fear on his face as Kate opens her eyes... 
Eye contact...Jack’s certain he’s about to hear her scream... 
KATE (CONT’D) (still groggy) Strong coffee, okay? 
She lets him go as Jack backs out the door... 
25	INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE LIVING ROOM - SECONDS LATER 
A garishly decorated Christmas tree sits in the middle of this messy and disorganized living room, a bevy of gifts underneath and four red stockings over the fireplace. 
Jack darts to the top of the steps... 
KATE (O.S.) (calling from the bedroom) Use an entire can if you have to! 
Frustrated, Jack turns and runs back to the mini-van... 
CUT TO: 
30	EXT. LASSITER BUILDING - MINUTES LATER 
Jack pulls up across the street and gets out of the van.  Running across the empty plaza toward the building entrance... 
31	INT. LASSITER BUILDING, LOBBY - CONTINUOUS 
Jack bursts through the door, approaching the lobby desk where FRANK the security guard sits. 
Frank spots Jack and blocks his way. 
FRANK Whoa, whoa, whoa...hold it right there... 
JACK Frank.  Where’s Alan Mintz?  Is he here yet? 
FRANK Mr. Mintz? (a knowing chuckle) I don’t think so...building’s closed pal.  You’ll have to come back tomorrow. 
JACK Look, I don’t know what’s going on here but I am Senior Vice President of this company. 
FRANK I don’t care who you are.  It’s Christmas and like I told you the building is closed. 
JACK Maybe you’re not hearing me.  I am Jack Campbell... (approaching the building directory) Right here.  Jack Campbell, President... 
And then he sees it...”ALAN MINTZ - PRESIDENT,” listed plain as day on the building director... 
Jack looks at Frank, then back to the building directory... 
A pitying look from Frank...Jack stands there, in shock... 
CHAPTER FIVE - WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
32	EXT. LASSITER BUILDING, PLAZA - MOMENTS LATER 
...it’s desolate... 
Jack walks through the plaza like a zombie, his face registering nothing.  He crosses the street, moving toward the mini-van...oblivious...when... 
SCREECH...a Ferrari 456M stops within inches of Jack’s torso...a VOICE from the car... 
VOICE (O.S.) Hey!  Watch where you’re walking! 
Jack turns...sees the DRIVER low in the seat...can’t quite make out the face... 
VOICE You almost dented my two hundred thousand dollar car! 
Jack...still stunned...looks at the car, very familiar...the voice of the driver, also familiar... 
VOICE (CONT’D) That’s right!  My new car’s worth more than your shitty house! 
A look of realization on Jack’s face... 
VOICE (CONT’D) I feel like I really did win the lottery! 
...it’s Cash, and he’s in Jack’s car... 
Jack moves over to the passenger window in shock...a smile from Cash... 
CASH Miss me, Jack? 
JACK That’s my car!  You stole my car! 
CASH It’s a callable asset seized in accordance with the acquisition by-laws of your alt-fate contract... 
JACK What?! 
CASH Basically, it’s my car now.  Get in. 
Cash reaches over and opens the door.  Jack hesitates... 
CASH (CONT’D) Look, I don’t make the rules, Jack.  This is how it works.  Get in. 
Cash gives him a reassuring look.  Jack gets in... 
33	INT. FERRARI - CONTINUOUS 
Jack closes the door...Cash joyfully drives off in a burst of acceleration...Jack practically ends up in the back seat... 
CASH Might wanna fasten your seat belt, Jack... 
JACK (recovering) What the hell is happening to me?! 
Jack’s freaking out and Cash is enjoying every minute of it.  Cash hands Jack a paper bag.  Jack starts breathing into the bag. 
CASH This kinda thing makes a lotta guys throw up. Seen it happen.  So if you get the urge, do it out the window. (with a taunting laugh) I don’t want you marring this exquisite leather interior... 
Cash looks over at Jack...he’s really losing it, sobbing into the bag...almost hyperventilating...Cash smiles... 
CASH (CONT’D) Look, I don’t know what you’re getting so worked up about, you did this...you brought this on yourself. 
JACK Brought what on myself?! I didn’t do anything! 
CASH No?  C’mon, Jack...I’ve got everything I need, I don’t have regrets, that’s just not for me... sound familiar? 
JACK You mean because you thought I was cocky I’m now on a permanent acid trip?!! 
Cash gets a laugh out of Jack’s overreaction... 
CASH Everyone else in that store is a statue, they see their lives passing in front of their eyes, but not you.  You’re making a business deal... 
JACK (enraged) Give me my goddamn life back! 
CASH You?  What about me?  I’m working hard for you here, Jack.  On Christmas too!  Now you did a good thing last night, intervening that way.  I was moved... 
JACK (interrupting) Please.  Just tell me what’s happening to me. In plain English.  None of that mumbo jumbo... 
Cash turns to Jack. 
CASH It’s a glimpse, Jacko. 
ARNIE You and me, buddy.  We know how to live... 
Arnie shepherds Jack onto a bar stool and pours a drink out of a bamboo bottle holder. 
ARNIE (CONT’D) So Jack, you okay? 
Jack doesn’t respond, his eyes drawn to a softball team photo on the bar...Jack and Arnie kissing a huge trophy with the caption, “Plainfield, N.J. Softball League Champs, 1994.” 
ARNIE (CONT’D) I mean you leave the house on Christmas morning, you don’t tell anyone where you’re going... 
Jack looks over from the photo to Arnie... 
JACK We’re friends, aren’t we? 
ARNIE Maybe I don’t say it enough but you moving in next door to me... 
Arnie makes a fist and gestures to his heart.  Jack nods. 
ARNIE (CONT’D) Talk to me... 
A moment of decision for Jack as Arnie stands there, open eyed, ready to listen. 
JACK I’m having kind of a bad day. 
ARNIE (nodding) I read somewhere that the suicide rate doubles during the holidays... 
A raised eyebrow from Jack. 
ARNIE (CONT’D) (to himself) What am I saying?  You don’t need to hear that... (back to Jack) All I meant was a lot of people have a hard time dealing with all the forced reverie, that’s all.  Is that you? 
JACK Is it...? 
ARNIE Trouble at work? 
JACK I don’t think so. 
ARNIE It’s not Kate, is it? 
Jack pauses at the mention of Kate.  Arnie’s eyes widen... 
ARNIE (CONT’D) (proudly) You see, it’s like we’re in each other’s heads... 
JACK Kate’s my wife... 
Jack looks at Arnie as if he’s seeking confirmation. 
ARNIE (a playful smile) Just keep saying it, Jack, like a mantra. 
Arnie comes out from behind the bar, taking Jack by the arm. 
ARNIE (CONT’D) C’mon, I better walk ya home.  She’s mad enough as it is, right...? 
37	EXT. ARNIE’S YARD - SECONDS LATER 
Arnie walks Jack through his backyard... 
ARNIE Look, you fit the profile exactly.  Thirties, house, kids, financial responsibilities.  You start thinking...this isn’t the life I dreamt about.  Where’s the romance, where’s the joie de vivre?  Suddenly, every lingerie ad in the Newark Star Ledger represents a life you can’t have... 
JACK (thinking, then...) It’s just two kids, right? 
A chuckle from Arnie. 
ARNIE You made a choice, Jack, a promise to your wife. Maybe sometimes it seems like you gave up the world, but look what you got... 
They arrive at...the backyard of the Campbell house... cluttered with a swing set, a dog run with chewed up lawn, and a wooden sun deck in the process of being built... 
ARNIE (CONT’D) Four bedrooms, two and a half baths, and a partially finished basement... 
Jack trips over a wayward BIG WHEEL. 
ARNIE (CONT’D) (shaking his head) Kids... 
Arnie leads Jack toward the house. 
ARNIE (CONT’D) Okay look, you probably don’t want to hear this right now but remember what you told me last summer when I almost had that thing with Arnie Jr.’s speech therapist. 
A blank stare from Jack as they arrive at the sliding glass door...Arnie faces Jack squarely, grabbing his shoulders and looking him in the eye. 
ARNIE (CONT’D) Don’t screw up the best thing in your life just because you’re a little unsure about who you are.  Okay? 
Arnie gives Jack a comforting smie... 
ARNIE (CONT’D) God, it feels so good to finally give something back to you... 
Arnie turns Jack toward the door and slides it open. 
ARNIE (CONT’D) I’m gonna hug you now... 
Arnie gives Jack a gentle hug...then gives him a little push toward the door... 
38	INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE, DEN - CONTINUOUS 
Jack steps inside.  He turns back to the door but Arnie’s gone. 
Then, Kate enters the room, holding a portable phone... 
KATE (into phone) Hold on a second... 
She cups the receiver.  Jack looks at her, she’s dressed now, nothing fancy but she looks great. 
JACK You cut your hair... 
A curious look from Kate. 
KATE Ten years ago... 
Kate just stands there looking at Jack, giving away nothing. 
KATE (CONT’D) Are you okay? 
JACK Yeah...fine. 
Lucy’s sniffing around someone’s Christmas display but Jack’s too wrapped up in his thought process to notice. 
JACK (CONT’D) Triage.  It’s your signature.  You survey the damage, find out everything you can, you probe, leave nothing to chance.  I’m just gonna have to go detective. How did you get Mentadent?  You learned everything there was to know about toothpaste and then you pounced... 
Jack narrows his eyes, thinking about that deal... 
JACK (CONT’D) That’s our play here... 
Resolute, Jack turns to the dog. 
JACK (CONT’D) If you could take a dump some time in this century, then we could go home where it’s warm... 
Jack looks around at the unfamiliar houses... 
JACK (CONT’D) That is if I can even remember how to get home... (to Lucy) You remember, don’t you girl? 
But the dog ignores him, dragging Jack along... 
47	INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT 
Kate is in bed, fast asleep. 
Jack walks into the room, his face still red from the cold outside.  He looks over at Kate, sleeping happily. 
He takes off his shirt and khakis, laying them neatly on the chair.  He looks over at the pair of flannel pajamas folded on the dresser.  He shakes his head, resigned, then dons the pajamas and climbs into bed... 
CHAPTER SIX - BEING A PARENT 48	INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE BEDROOM - MORNING 
Morning light streams into the room.  The clock reads, 
Jack opens his eyes – a burst of light hitting them from the window...like the morning light in his Manhattan loft... 
He reaches across the bed...it’s empty... 
A smile of hope from Jack as he puts his head back on the pillow...maybe it was only a day...Then... 
The sound of a baby CRYING from the next room...A pained look on Jack’s face as he realizes he’s still in Jersey. 
Now the baby is WAILING...Jack lies still a moment, hoping it’ll stop...it doesn’t.  Then, he hears the sound of the SHOWER TURN ON in the bathroom. 
He gets out of bed and walks to the bathroom... 
49	INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS 
The shower is running, a tape player is BLASTING “Beast of Burden.”  Kate is in the shower SINGING LOUDLY with the song... 
JACK Hello? 
No answer... 
JACK (CONT’D) (louder, over music) Hello! 
KATE (singing) ...my feet are hurtin’... 
JACK (yelling) HEY! 
Finally, the music is turned down and Kate pulls the shower curtain open... 
Jack sees her naked body...raises an eyebrow...that’s something he’s missed...then... 
JACK (CONT’D) Uh...that baby’s crying... 
KATE (unimpressed) And...? 
...her expression makes Jack turn his gaze from her naked body. 
KATE (CONT’D) Don’t give me that look, Jack, Tuesday’s your day and you know it.  And try to get Josh to day care on time, okay?  He missed the macaroni painting last week... 
She closes the curtain and turns the radio back up. 
CUT TO: 
50	INT. JOSH’S ROOM - MORNING 
Annie’s watching from a baby-size Laz-E-Boy lounger as... 
Jack, in a robe, stands in front of a changing table, Josh laying happily on his back, playing with a set of plastic keys. 
Jack takes a fresh Huggies diaper and puts it next to the baby.  He surveys Josh, scratching his chin and rubbing his hands like Indiana Jones.  Josh playfully grabs at Jack’s nose. 
He looks over to Annie.  She’s still staring at him like he’s a Martian.  He looks at the instructions on the box of Huggies. 
JACK Pull tape... 
Jack searches the diaper for the tabs of tape, then gingerly pulls them apart, releasing the diaper from the baby’s bottom, and seeing what’s inside. 
JACK (CONT’D) Holy mother of god! 
Jack holds the diaper out away from him, searching for a place to put it.  Annie points to a Diaper Genie by the dresser. 
Jack throws the diaper in, then quickly replaces the lid.  Annie points to the container of Baby Wipes. 
JACK (CONT’D) You must be kidding... 
Annie stares at him a beat.  Then... 
ANNIE You’re not really our dad, are you? 
Jack turns to her.  She’s looking back at him with complete earnestness.  They stare at each other another moment.  Then... 
JACK No, I’m not. 
A look of curiosity from Annie. 
JACK (CONT’D) I work on Wall Street, you know with the big buildings...? 
No response from Annie... 
JACK (CONT’D) I live in an apartment house with a doorman, I can buy just about anything I want... 
Annie nods at Jack, still suspicious. 
JACK Good Lord... 
...a huge, three-story-tall plastic likeness of Big Ed Reynolds, ten gallon hat, lassoing a tire... 
55	EXT. BIG ED’S TIRES - MOMENTS LATER 
Jack approaches Big Ed’s from the parking lot...slowly, taking it all in... 
It’s like a Pep Boys with a Texas theme.  A big retail store for tires and auto parts, and a repair bay for everything from alignments to brake jobs... 
Jack walks to the tire bay where HECTOR, 40s, a Guatemalan mechanic in grease-stained coveralls, stands with TOMMY the salesman. 
TOMMY Hey Jack, you happen to know the stock number on those new Michelin X1's? 
JACK Uh...lemme get back to you on that one... (looking at his name tag) Tommy... 
HECTOR (to Tommy) Thomas, why you bother Jack about that.  Look it up yourself... (to Jack) Okay Jack, we talk later... 
Jack nods amiably then continues into the store... 
56	INT. BIG ED’S TIRES - CONTINUOUS 
Jack walks in...looks around...the store is teeming with activity, a post-holiday sale in progress... 
Big Ed, in his signature ten gallon hat, sees Jack from behind the counter... 
BIG ED Jack my boy!  You are looking mighty worse for the wear...Hey, guess who I played bridge with two nights ago...? 
Jack stares blankly at Big Ed... 
BIG ED (CONT’D) Hell, you’ll never guess.  One Sydney Potter.  That’s Sydney Potter, Chief Executive Officer of BuyRite Transport.  Only the third largest trucking company in the state.  I even let the sonuvabitch win, which wasn’t easy because the guy’s been bashed in the head by Teamsters so many times his brain’s like porridge.  Anyhoo, he’s looking for a new parts supplier... we can handle that kind of volume, right? 
Jack considers this briefly. 
JACK I’m gonna have to get back to you on that...Ed. 
Big Ed makes a gun gesture with his forefinger, winking at Jack, then turns back to the activity at the counter as... 
Jack spots KENNY, a very young sales associate, walking by.  He reaches out and taps Kenny on the shoulder. 
JACK (CONT’D) Do I have a private office somewhere in the building? 
KENNY Uh...sure Jack... (nervously pointing) Right back there... 
JACK Thank you. 
Jack walks into the office with his name on the door... 
57	INT. JACK’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 
There’s no Stairmaster here, no leather sofa or bar...it’s small, cramped and cluttered, the walls littered with tire inventory and price lists... 
Jack takes a slow, sad lap around the office. 
He makes it to the small wooden desk at the far end of the room and sits down behind it... 
On the desk are photos of Jack, Kate and the kids, a plastic Michelin Man model, a tire-themed day calendar and a small plastic figurine of a BOWLER, the word, “Bowlers Do It In An Alley” embossed on its base... 
He surveys the desktop briefly, then opens the top drawer, finding a personal checkbook and looking inside... 
He sees the bottom line and winces, then puts it back... 
Jack picks up the “Bowlers Do It In An Alley” figurine and gives it a good look... 
JACK Bowlers do it in an alley?...Non profit lawyers do it for free... what is it with these people?  Don’t they realize this refers to sex? 
He replaces the figurine then opens the bottom drawer where he spots a bottle of Glenfiddich.  He lifts it out... 
JACK (CONT’D) At least you splurged on some decent scotch... 
He takes a paper cup and pours himself a shot.  He drinks it down in one gulp and then crumples up the cup, throwing it toward the NET’S basketball hoop/garbage can near the door. 
He misses... 
He looks more closely at the photographs...most are family photos, a happy Jack with Kate, with Annie at the pony rides, at Josh’s birth...in every one of them, Jack is smiling... 
JACK (CONT’D) (to Jack in the photo) What are you smiling about...? 
He turns his head...spots a small plaque on the wall behind him.  It reads, “Jack Campbell - E.F. Hutton #1 Junior Sales Associate, 1988.”  Jack raises an eyebrow... 
JACK (CONT’D) Number one...not bad. 
He grabs it off the wall and looks at it more carefully... 
JACK (CONT’D) 
1988...?  I was in London in 1988... 
Jack’s jarred into reality... 
JACK (CONT’D) (to Jack in the photo) You never went to London... (picking up the photo) ...you never got on that plane... 
He stays there a moment...in shock.  Then... 
The P.A. system comes to life... 
ESTELLE (over P.A.) Jack to mag wheels...Jack, you’re needed in mag wheels, customer waiting! 
CUT TO: 
58	INT. BIG ED’S TIRES, MAIN FLOOR - MINUTES LATER 
Kenny leading Jack toward the “Mag Wheels” section. 
JACK ...I was the number one junior sales associate at E.F. Hutton in 1988.  Did you know that? 
KENNY No, I didn’t...that’s great. 
JACK That’s the kind of thing you can really build on... 
KENNY Uh huh... 
JACK (CONT’D) You want to bid hearts, we’re right there with you.  You feel the need to redouble, you’re not going to get any argument from us... 
Potter nods at Jack.  Jack moves in for the kill. 
JACK (CONT’D) The big guys may have the high cards, but you know as well as I do, Sydney, high cards don’t always take the trick. 
Potter pauses a minute, then... 
POTTER (to Big Ed, re: Jack) I like him... 
Big Ed smiles, letting out a relieved sigh. 
BIG ED (a wink to Jack) That’s my boy... (an arm around Potter) C’mon, lemme show you the rest of the ranch... 
Big Ed and Potter exit the office... 
BIG ED (CONT’D) (turning back to Jack) Nice shootin’, Jack... 
...leaving Jack there with a satisfied smile on his face. 
60	INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Jack is in bed watching CNBC...On the TV a young woman REPORTER at the anchor’s desk... 
CNBC REPORTER (ON T.V.) ...advancers led decliners by a nine to four ratio and the closing tick was a mildly bullish plus seventy six.  Much of the market’s action today was fueled by the latest round of merger mania to hit Wall Street... 
The Global Health Systems and MedTech logos appear on a graphic in the corner of the screen... 
CNBC REPORTER (CONT’D, ON T.V.) ...when Global Health Systems and MedTech Pharmaceutical announced their intentions to join forces in a massive one hundred and twenty two billion dollar stock swap deal.  Though neither side expressed significant regulatory concerns at the announcement press conference, it is believed that both the FDA and the FTC will be closely scrutinizing the marriage, the largest ever in the health care industry.  When asked about possible anti- competitive implications, Global Chairman Bob Thomas referred reporters to P.K. Lassiter and Company President Alan Mintz, the original architect behind the deal... 
Jack stares in shock as the image changes to a super confident looking Mintz shaking Bob Thomas’ hand at the press conference. 
CNBC REPORTER (CONT’D, ON T.V.) Ironically, Mintz first met Thomas at a Lamaze class... 
JACK A Lamaze class...!? 
CNBC REPORTER (ON T.V.) ...while coaching their pregnant wives, Mintz and T homas struck up a dialogue about the need for consolidation in the rapidly growing health care industry and two months later, the deal with MedTech was born... 
JACK What?!  That’s my deal? 
CNBC REPORTER (ON T.V.) In other business news, U.S. Labor Department officials announced today that two hundred and seventy-five thousand new jobs were created last month, twenty-five thousand less than economists were predicting, leading to a mild rally in the bond markets before midday. But as the trading session drew to a close, the profit takers stepped in and the long bond closed at ninety seven even, up only two ticks, the yield inching down to six point zero seven percent... 
Kate comes into the room from the hallway wearing only Jack’s NYU sweatshirt... 
KATE The kids are asleep... 
She goes over to the window and draws the blinds.  Jack looks up at her, nods, then goes back to the TV. 
KATE (CONT’D) Jack.  I said the kids are asleep... 
JACK (distracted) Well that’s just great...those little monkeys can be a real handful... 
Kate shuts off the TV. 
JACK (CONT’D) Hey!  I was watching that! 
KATE I thought we had a deal about you watching CNBC in bed. 
JACK I’m working on a new deal now... 
Kate throws a Kate Bush’s “The Sensual World” into the CD player. 
KATE Fine, but not tonight... 
She climbs onto the bed, a seductive look on her face. 
JACK Wait a second.  You want me, don’t you? 
KATE That is the general idea, yes... 
Kate starts kissing him...but Jack’s a little uncomfortable with the sudden intimacy...he pulls back, a little nervous. 
JACK Shouldn’t we grab some dinner first?  Maybe a bottle of wine...? 
KATE It’s ten thirty, Jack. By eleven you’re gonna be sprawled out on the bed snoring your head off. We don’t have time for wining and dining. 
JACK Whatever you say...honey. 
She starts kissing him again...but this time he just goes with it, and as her hands run through his hair he’s brought back to a different time and place... 
Jack momentarily pulls back and looks at her...it’s like the first time he’s really looked at her in eleven years... 
JACK (CONT’D) God...you’re beautiful... 
She smiles at him, almost uncomfortable with the compliment... 
KATE Thanks, Jack... 
JACK No, I’m serious...you’re really stunning... 
KATE This is good stuff, Jack, keep it coming... 
JACK I mean back in college, you were a very pretty girl, there’s no question about that.  But this... (lost in her) ...you’ve really grown into a beautiful woman... 
Jack stares at her, entranced...Kate pulls back, reacting to the intensity in his stare... 
KATE How can you do that? 
JACK (nervous) Do what? 
KATE Look at me like you haven’t seen me every day for the last twelve years... 
Jack freezes.  There’s love in her eyes but it’s not meant for him... 
She kisses him... 
KATE (CONT’D) Don’t move. 
She gets up off the bed and heads for the bathroom... 
He looks around...not sure what to do...Finally... 
KATE Maybe you’re not.  The Jack Campbell I married wouldn’t need a $2400 suit to make himself feel better about his life, but if that’s what it’s gonna take, then buy it. Just buy the goddamn suit ...we can take the money out of the kids’ college fund. 
They stare at each other for a moment...a stand-off... 
JACK Forget it... (taking off the jacket) We’ll get a funnel cake. It’ll be the highlight of my week... 
64	EXT. NEW JERSEY ROAD - NIGHT 
The blue mini-van makes its way down this road... 
65	INT. MINI-VAN - NIGHT 
There’s an icy silence in the car...Jack is behind the wheel, Kate next to him looking out the window, anger on her face... 
CHAPTER NINE - REMINISCING 
Jack checks the rear-view mirror, sees Annie and Josh in the back, both asleep... 
JACK (to Kate) Listen, I’m sorry about that back in the store. I really don’t want to fight with you... 
Kate just keeps looking out the window. 
JACK (CONT’D) But you must sometimes wonder how we ended up here.  I mean back in college, did you see us... (looking around) ...here...? 
She turns to him. 
KATE I’ll give you this, life has thrown us a few surprises... 
A glimmer in Jack’s eye... 
JACK It really has, hasn’t it?  So if you had to...what would you say was the biggest surprise? 
She glances at the kids sleeping in the back. 
KATE Well...Annie for one. 
JACK Surprise.  We’re pregnant... (a laugh) Yeah...that must’ve been...I mean that was very unexpected.  But what are you gonna do, right? 
KATE I think it worked out okay, don’t you? 
JACK Sure.  I really like Annie. 
KATE Good, Jack.  Maybe we’ll keep her. 
JACK No, I love Annie.  We had a lot of good times, didn’t we? 
KATE We were young... (a nostalgic smile) Remember that little place on Charles Street we used to go to? 
JACK Charles Street?  In the Village?  When we were living in Greenwich Village...? (off her nod) Great times.  Why’d we ever leave? 
KATE You can’t really raise a kid in an apartment in the Village... 
Jack nods, starting to piece it together. 
KATE (CONT’D) The trek out to the hospital every day didn’t help either... (looking at him) You were great. Surviving the heart attack was one thing... 
JACK You had a heart attack? 
KATE (a laugh) Jack, stop that. I'm still mad at you... (a sigh) ...who knows what would’ve happened if you hadn’t stepped in at the store. 
JACK That’s why I work for Big Ed? 
A look from Kate. 
JACK (CONT’D) (recovering) I mean, that’s why I work for Big Ed... 
Jack looks out at the road a moment, piecing it all together in his mind. 
JACK (CONT’D) (almost to himself) So we had a baby, Big Ed had a heart attack, we b ought that house, and I’ve been working for him ever since...Sayonara, Wall Street. 
Kate looks at him a little strangely. 
JACK (CONT’D) (turning to her) Our life in a nutshell... 
KATE If you want to look at it that way... 
JACK How would you look at it? 
She glances again at the kids in the back seat, then at Jack. 
KATE A great success story... 
A smile from Jack.  He admires her outlook even if he can’t bring himself to share it. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
66	INT. BOWLING ALLEY - EVENING 
A crowded suburban New Jersey bowling alley... 
Jack stands at a lane holding a bowling ball, the nickname “The Hammer” emblazoned over his bowling shirt pocket...He approaches the line and throws the ball down the lane... 
It’s ugly...The ball caroms off the hardwood into the gutter. 
JACK Damn... 
ARNIE (O.S., from behind) Jesus, Jack, this is a league match, for god’s sake! 
Jack turns.  Arnie and the BOWLING TEAM are in the scorekeeping area watching Jack make a mockery of the sport.  Jack scowls. 
ARNIE (CONT’D) Where’s your follow through?  Where’s your stance? 
JACK Hey, I’m doing the best I can... (under his breath) I’d like to see you hit a squash ball after seventeen beers... 
ARNIE You’re right.  Why am I so competitive!? Compensation, I guess. Look, just focus, Jack. You can still pick up the spare... 
Jack retrieves his ball, sets up, genuinely concentrating... 
JACK (quietly, to himself) You are Jack Campbell. You’re better than this sport.  You shot the rapids at Kenai.  You ran with the bulls at Pamplona.  You jumped out of a plane over the Mojave Desert, for Christ’s sake.  You can do this... 
Jack puts everything he has into the throw, heaving the ball down the lane with as much grace and power as he can muster...hitting the six pin and taking out four others. 
Arnie takes one last swig of his beer and gets up... 
ARNIE (CONT’D) I’ll see ya later, Jack... 
He leaves Jack alone, thinking... 
CHAPTER TEN - CAKE WARS 
69	INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE - NIGHT 
Jack walks into the house carrying his bowling bag.  He dumps the bag in the coat closet and walks into the kitchen where... 
Kate is at the counter, her back to him, poring over some legal documents. 
KATE (not looking up) How was the game, honey? 
JACK (opening the fridge) Long, boring, and generally pretty sad. Arnie seemed to enjoy it... (peering inside) Hey, where’s that chocolate cake...? 
Kate turns around, revealing a huge hunk of chocolate cake on a plate in front of her, a bite ready to go into her mouth. 
KATE (with a smile) You mean this chocolate cake? 
JACK That’s my piece.  I was saving it because I got nauseated from that store bought chicken. 
Kate takes the bite, a little piece of icing sticks to the side of her mouth. 
KATE It’s good... 
Jack approaches the counter. 
JACK Gimme that cake. 
She takes another bite. 
KATE No way. 
He makes a grab for the plate but she holds it out where he can’t reach it. 
JACK C’mon. 
KATE Sorry, Jack.  It’s too important to me. 
They stare each other down a moment.  Then... 
He tries to swipe the plate.  Kate jumps out of her chair, running out of the kitchen with the cake, laughing... 
Jack takes off after her...chasing her through the house... just about the catch up to her when... 
She darts up the stairs, still laughing...he follows her... 
JACK I want that cake! 
...reaches up...grabs her shirt...pulls her down playfully on top of him... 
KATE (laughing) You want the cake!? 
JACK (out of breath) I want it... 
She looks at him, then takes the whole piece in her hand and smooshes it right in his mouth... 
Beat.  Then, Jack starts laughing... 
JACK (CONT’D) Thank you... 
KATE It’s good, right? 
He takes a big clump of it and smooshes it in her mouth. 
They stay there a moment, lying on the stairs, feeding each other cake, laughing. 
Jack leans back on the stairs.  He looks at Kate’s face, practically covered in cake, smiling, and realizes... 
...he hasn’t laughed like this in thirteen years. Then... 
JACK Are the kids asleep? 
A sexy smile from Kate...they start kissing passionately right there on the steps...it’s heating up... 
KATE (caught up in the moment) Say it, Jack... 
JACK What...? 
KATE C’mon, you know what I like to hear... 
JACK (in the throes of passion) Yeah, baby, I know what you like to hear... 
KATE (kissing him) Then say it...just say it to me...! 
JACK (swept up in the moment) Oh yeah, you’re a bad girl, baby... You make me so hot...I’m gonna take you to that special place... 
Kate pulls away. 
KATE What...? 
Jack looks up at her, he can practically see the passion drain from her face... 
JACK Not it...? 
KATE Nice, Jack.  You’re sweeping me off my feet. 
JACK What? You make me hot... 
She gets up and heads up the steps, disappearing into the bedroom...Jack shakes his head, frustrated.  Then, he feels something licking at his hand... 
He looks down and sees Lucy standing next to him, wagging her tail, looking up at Jack with an “I’ve gotta go” look on her face.  Jack heaves a sigh, then... 
JACK (CONT’D) C’mon, Lucy, maybe one of us can get a little relief tonight... 
He leads the dog toward the front door... 
70	EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - MINUTES LATER 
Kate rubs her lips together, showing Annie how to do it.  Annie mimics her Mom, then Kate looks at her – Annie’s beaming. 
KATE (CONT’D) You’re gonna break a lot of hearts, you know. 
A smile from Annie... 
Pull back to reveal...Jack standing at the door, watching ...appreciating the kind of mother Kate is... 
79   OMITTED 
80	EXT. LOIRE - NIGHT 
A small, elegant French restaurant hidden on a tree- lined lower Manhattan street. 
81	INT. LOIRE - SAME TIME 
Jack is wearing the suit Kate gave him.  It’s not a Zegna, but he looks pretty damn good. 
He leads Kate toward the cloak room at this intimate restaurant... 
He helps her off with her coat.  Kate’s wearing the sexy little black dress and we can immediately see its effectiveness... 
JACK You look beautiful... 
A charmed smile from Kate as she hands Jack her coat. 
Jack hands the coats over to the COAT CHECK GIRL... 
JACK (CONT’D) (instinctively) Thanks, Catherine... 
Jack fakes a SNEEZE, trying to cover up...Kate gives him a pat on the back... 
KATE You okay? 
He takes Kate by the arm... 
JACK Fine... 
He leads her to the main room. 
She looks out at the room, elegant tables, French country decor, a PIANIST playing Cole Porter... 
KATE (quietly to Jack) Jack...can we afford all this? 
JACK What’s the difference? I’m taking my baby out for our anniversary, damn the costs... 
KATE How do you even know about this place? 
Jack’s caught for a moment.  Then... 
JACK Arnie... (insistent) Arnie.  He’ll throw you a curve ball once in a while, that’s for sure... 
Jack puts his arm around her and kisses her on the cheek... 
82	INT. LOIRE - A LITTLE LATER 
Jack and Kate sit at a secluded table, a WAITER standing next to them.  Jack’s not even looking at the menu. 
JACK We’ll have the tureen of quail breast with shiitake mushrooms to start, then the veal medallions in raspberry truffle sauce and the sea scallops with pureed artichoke hearts...sea scallops, North of the Caspian... 
Kate looks at Jack, a mixture of confusion and awe on her face. 
WAITER Very good, sir.  And may I say those are all excellent selections. 
JACK You may... (perusing the wine list) Also, we’ll have a bottle of Lafite, 1982. 
Kate reaches over and pulls down the wine list, reading it upside down. 
KATE It’s five hundred and fifty dollars, Jack! 
A wince from Jack...for a moment there it was almost perfect. 
JACK Just a glass of red wine for each of us... 
The waiter nods, then walks toward the kitchen... 
KATE You are so not off the hook yet, slick. 
JACK But I’m gettin’ close, right? 
A noncommittal nod from Kate.  Then Jack notices her look over at the pianist, drawn in by the music. 
JACK (CONT’D) You want to dance? 
A puzzled look from Kate.  There’s nobody else dancing.  There isn’t even much room to dance... 
KATE I don’t think there’s dancing here, Jack. 
Jack gets up and holds out a hand. 
JACK Sure there is... 
Kate looks around again, then she smiles. 
Kate rises, taking his hand.  Jack takes her in his arms, swaying slowly in the limited amount of space, confident and self-assured. 
The pianist looks up, smiling, appreciating their role in this romantic moment. 
Kate moves with Jack, following his lead comfortably. They look good together...in sync with each other... 
People are watching them...some of the men are impressed, others are scoffing, but the women are clearly charmed... 
KATE (whispering to Jack) Pretty good for a tire salesman from Jersey... 
Jack flashes her his most charming smile. 
JACK I have my moments... 
They continue to dance, in a world of their own... 
83	INT. LOIRE - LATE 
Jack puts Kate down and she takes in the room, antique furniture...it’s like walking into another world... 
KATE This is so beautiful... 
Jack smiles as he opens a champagne bottle sitting on a silver ice bucket... 
KATE (CONT’D) You know champagne makes me do crazy things. 
JACK (pouring) I’ll just full yours up to the top. (handing her a glass) Happy anniversary, sweetheart. 
Kate smiles, clinking her glass with Jack’s. 
KATE I don’t know how you did it, hoss, but you pulled it off. 
JACK I’m out of the doghouse? 
KATE Way out... 
Kate saunters into the bedroom, looking at the king- size poster bed, feeling the down quilt.  Jack follows her... 
KATE (CONT’D) (turning to him) You may even get lucky tonight... 
Kate kisses him...when their lips separate, we can see the powerful effect it has on him. 
Jack looks deep into her eyes, stroking her hair, lost in her. 
JACK You’re so...beautiful... 
KATE I already told you you were gonna get lucky, Jack... 
They kiss again, a long soulful kiss.  Then... 
Jack pulls back, a look of realization on his face... 
JACK My god, all this time...I never stopped loving you... 
KATE (a wide smile) That’s all I wanted to hear... 
She kisses him, their bodies intertwined...hands caressing ...more and more passionate...then reaches behind her to the light.  The room goes dark... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
86	INT. PENSION, SUITE - MORNING 
Morning sun streams onto Jack and Kate in bed... 
Kate, in Jack’s arms, her head on his chest, a contented smile on her face... 
Jack’s eyes open...adjust to the light.  He looks over at Kate. 
There’s something different in his eyes...something deeper.  Jack smiles...a broad, “I’m in love” kind of smile. 
Kate stirs, gently stroking Jack’s chest. 
KATE Mmmm...Jack... 
Kate lifts her head, turning to face Jack. 
KATE (CONT’D) I feel like I should give you money... 
Jack laughs. 
KATE (CONT’D) I mean, my god, Jack you were always good but this...this was... like a porno movie. 
Kate lays her head back on Jack’s chest, looking at Washington Square through the window. 
KATE (CONT’D) I could stay here forever... 
JACK I don’t think I’d fight you on that one... 
Kate lifts her head and looks at him expectantly.  They kiss. 
87	EXT. NEW JERSEY STREET - NIGHT 
The mini-van passes a sign that reads, “Welcome to Teaneck.” 
88	INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE, VARIOUS - MORNING 
Annie walking through the downstairs of the house, practicing her violin...it’s a noise bordering on MUSIC, but not quite... 
She walks into the kitchen where... 
Jack stands at the counter in his robe, reading the Newark Star Ledger and drinking a cup of coffee. 
He lowers the paper, watches Annie with a smile as she strolls through the room playing her violin badly...he goes back to his paper. 
89	INT. JACK’S CLOSET - MINUTES LATER 
Jack, still singing, donning his Dockers and short- sleeve oxford... 
89A	EXT. CAMPBELL HOUSE - MORNING 
The front door of the Campbell House... 
Jack emerges in his work clothes, putting his coat on, a bagel in his mouth... 
He disappears from frame, the screen door closing slowly behind him... 
In a moment...Kate appears at the door, a cup of coffee in her hand...she follows Jack with her eyes as he heads to the car. 
Then...a smile from Kate... 
In a moment...Jack returns to frame and heads straight into Kate’s arms... 
...a passionate kiss as she leans against the door post... 
KATE Have a good day... 
A smile from Jack as she pats him on the ass and sends him on his way... 
90	EXT. BIG ED’S - AFTERNOON 
CHAPTER FOURTEEN - A PERFECT LIFE? 
CUT TO: 
101	INT. CORPORATE APARTMENT - DAY 
A double door opens and Jack leads Kate into this huge duplex.  Kate looks around, taking the place in. 
JACK Welcome to Xanadu... 
The place is incredible...marble floors, architectural lines, high tech fixtures, elegant modern furniture... it’s striking but not at all homey like the Jersey house. 
JACK (CONT’D) Pretty incredible, isn’t it? 
KATE It’s like a museum. 
Jack nods. 
KATE (CONT’D) (turning to Jack) So what’s the big surprise? You didn’t rent this place for the weekend, did you? 
JACK Think bigger. 
KATE For the week? 
Jack chuckles. 
JACK This place is a perk, Kate. 
KATE A perk for what? 
JACK A company called P.K. Lassiter and Associates Investment House uses it to attract new executives... 
Kate’s confused. 
JACK (CONT’D) You’re talking to their new Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions. 
KATE What are you talking about, Jack? 
JACK I’m going into arbitrage, honey.  Turns out I have a knack for it.  I’ll be making two hundred grand a year plus a hefty bonus and that’s just to start.  And, we can live in this apartment practically rent free for as long as we want. 
Jack measures her reaction. It’s not good... 
JACK (CONT’D) We can finally afford to move back into the city. In style. 
Kate just looks at him, in shock. Then... 
KATE Are you out of your mind? 
JACK I don’t think so. This is going to be a better life for all of us, honey.  We’ll put Annie and Josh in private schools... 
KATE Annie goes to a great school. 
JACK I’m talking about the best schools in the country here, Kate... 
KATE Jack, what could you possibly be thinking? What about my job? 
JACK This is New York City, it’s like the needy people capital of the world.  Those Jersey clients of yours aren’t a tenth as pathetic as the ones you could get here... 
KATE (cutting him off) I can’t believe you want to move back into the city.  I thought the reason we left was because we didn’t want to raise the kids here? 
JACK No, this is the center of the universe.  If I were living in Roman times, I would live in Rome, where else?  Today, America is the Roman Empire and New York is Rome itself. John Lennon. 
KATE (cutting him off) Jack. 
Jack’s starting to struggle... 
JACK Look, I’m detecting a kind of funky tension here...We don’t have to live in this apartment. I don’t need this...I’ll commute...I’ll drive to work... 
Jack’s back on his heels...seeing his dream picked apart... 
KATE In traffic?  It’s over an hour each way?  That’s almost three hours a day.  When are you going to see the kids? 
He’s frustrated...he pauses a moment to gather himself. Then... 
JACK Kate. You’re not understanding me. I’m talking about a great life.  A perfect life. Everything we pictured when we were young. The whole package. You said it yourself, life has thrown us surprises, and so we made sacrifices. But now I can finally get us back on track... 
A sad chuckle from Kate. 
JACK (CONT’D) I can do that.  I want to do that.  For all of us. I need to do that as a man... (imploring her) Think about it.  No more lousy restaurants, no more clipping coupons, no more shoveling snow... 
KATE Then get a goddamn snow blower! 
Jack’s taken aback by the intensity of her tone. 
KATE (CONT’D) Don’t get a new career without even telling me. Don’t take Annie out of a school she loves.  Don’t move us out of a house we’ve become a family in... 
Kate stands there, wounded... 
KATE (CONT’D) (quietly) Don’t do that... 
JACK Look, you’re making this into something it’s not. This isn’t a referendum on our lives, Kate. It’s a step forward... (appealing to her) Don’t you see?  I’m talking about us finally having a life other people envy. 
Silence.  Kate looks him in the eye – a deep, piercing look... 
KATE They already do envy us, Jack... 
Kate picks up her bag and walks out of the apartment. 
102  OMITTED 
103	INT. ANNIE’S ROOM - NIGHT 
Annie is in a nightgown, practicing her violin. Jack walks in. 
It’s all he can do to hold back cringing at the missed notes. Annie finishes the piece, lowering the bow. 
JACK Very nice. What is it? 
ANNIE Mary Had A Little Lamb. 
JACK Ah. A classic... 
He turns and sees Annie at the open garage door, sitting on her bike, ringing the BELL. 
It’s an eerie moment for Jack... 
JACK What are you doing? 
ANNIE (a curious look) Ringing my bell... 
On Jack’s anxious face... 
109  OMITTED 
CHAPTER FIFTEEN – SAYING GOODBYE 
110	INT. CONVENIENCE STORE - NIGHT 
On Jack...crouched down in an aisle of this local convenience store...checking out the bags of rock salt... 
He looks at the price tag on one of the bags... 
JACK Four ninety nine?! It’s just salt for god’s sake... 
On the entrance to the store...the door opens, a YOUNG GIRL, 17, enters, an average suburban teenager... 
She glances at a fashion magazine, picks up a package of gum... 
From the POV of the cashier, we see the girl approach the counter... 
On Jack, crouched down in the aisle. He grabs a bag of salt from the shelf, when... 
CASH (O.S.) That’ll be sixty five cents, little angel... 
Jack registers the voice...he rises slowly, looking over to the front counter...where he sees... 
Cash, dressed in a typical chain convenience store uniform, ringing up the teenager... 
An excited smile from Jack at the sight of Cash... 
JACK You...! 
Then...the color drains from Jack’s face... 
JACK (CONT’D) What are you doing here... 
Jack moves toward Cash at the counter... 
JACK (CONT’D) You’re not sending me back... 
The girl eyes Jack curiously, then removes a dollar bill from her pocket and slides it across the counter to Cash... 
CASH Jack, it’s good to see you... 
Cash reaches into the register, taking out change for ten dollars...he hands the girl $9.35... 
CASH (CONT’D) (to the girl) Thank you darlin’... 
The girl looks at the money, realizing that Cash has given her the wrong change... 
CASH (CONT’D) (back to Jack, seeing the rock salt) What do you got there, rock salt?  Look at you, all domestic and shit... You really figured some things out, huh? 
The girl looks at Cash talking to Jack... 
JACK I’m not going back... 
The girl hesitates...Cash turns to her... 
CASH (to the girl) Everything okay...? 
She looks at him, a moment of decision, then... 
TEENAGE GIRL Yeah...fine. 
JACK (raising his voice) Hey! Did you hear me...?! 
Cash ignores Jack, watching the girl as she heads to the door, hesitates a moment, then walks out... 
A look of disappointment on Cash’s face as he reaches into his pocket, pulling out a little notebook... 
Cash looks at Jack. 
CASH (making a note in his book) 
That was a character issue... (shaking his head) ...and for nine dollars? That’s just sad... 
JACK Hey, I’m talking to you! I am not going back, do you understand...?! 
Cash looks at him, compassion on his face. 
JACK (CONT’D) You can’t do this. You can’t keep coming in and out of people’s lives, messing things up... 
CASH C’mon, Jack... 
Jack throws six bucks on the counter... 
JACK I’ve got kids, I’m going home... 
CASH You know what the word glimpse means, J? It’s by nature an impermanent thing. 
Jack walks determinedly toward the exit. He stops and turns at the door... 
JACK (pointing at Cash) I’m staying. 
Cash follows him with his eyes, a proud look on Cash’s face as Jack leaves... 
111	INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE, JOSH’S ROOM - LATE NIGHT 
Jack walks to Josh.  He’s sleeping soundly. 
Jack gently kisses Josh on the head, careful not to wake him. 
112	INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE, ANNIE’S ROOM - LATE NIGHT 
Jack looks at the clock, “9:23 a.m.”  He gets out of bed, throwing on pants and a pair of shoes, and leaves the room... 
117	INT. JACK’S APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
...Jack walks to the door just as... 
The doorbell RINGS.  He stops, then cautiously opens the door, seeing... 
PAULA, wearing a long overcoat and a wide smile on her face. 
PAULA Waiting for me by the door, huh? 
Jack looks at her. 
JACK Paula... 
Paula opens her coat – the only thing she has on underneath is a sexy little teddy. 
JACK (CONT’D) (momentarily distracted) That’s totally see through... 
PAULA (smiling) Merry Christmas... 
JACK (confused) Christmas?  It can’t be Christmas... 
Jack stares at her, totally confused... 
PAULA (lasciviously) It’s whatever you want it to be, Jack... 
Jack grabs a leather jacket then walks right by a shocked Paula and heads out the door, practically running down the corridor. 
PAULA (CONT’D) Jack?...Jack! 
CUT TO: 
118	EXT. GEORGE WASHINGTON BRIDGE - MORNING 
Jack’s Ferrari speeds down the bridge, toward Jersey... 
119	EXT. CAMPBELL HOUSE - MORNING 
Jack’s Ferrari pulls up in the driveway and he hops out. He races to the front door, POUNDING on it... 
A MAN in a Van Heusen shirt and Hagar slacks answers. Jack stares at him in shock. 
MAN Can I help you? 
JACK Is Kate here? Does Kate live here?! 
MAN Kate? No, there’s no one here named Kate.  Is that good enough for you? 
Jack starts rapping his head against the door post, much to the shock of the guy standing there. 
JACK Damn...damn...damn... 
MAN Hey, are you okay? 
JACK No...I’m not... 
MAN Is there anything I can do for you? 
Jack shakes his head mournfully. 
MAN (CONT’D) Hey, my wife’s in the kitchen. You got a cigarette? 
JACK I’m sorry, no... 
Jack walks off, beleaguered... 
120	EXT. ARNIE’S HOUSE - MINUTES LATER 
Jack’s car drives by as Arnie carries a bicycle box out to the garbage.  The car screeches to a halt in front of the driveway. 
ARNIE (shouting at Jack) Hey, you can’t park that thing here. 
JACK (out the window) It’s me, Jack... 
ARNIE I don’t care if you’re Tim Allen with your fancy car and all your tools, you still can’t park here. 
JACK Tell me you recognize me, Arnie.  Please... 
ARNIE How’d you know my name? 
JACK We bowl together. We’re bowlers ...we won a championship...we’re winners. 
ARNIE I never won anything in bowling. 
Arnie peers at Jack through the window. 
ARNIE (CONT’D) Wait a second... (thinking) Jack...Jack... 
JACK Yes...Jack Campbell... 
ARNIE Of course. Jack Campbell. I went to high school with you...you played baseball, right? (at the Ferrari) You’re doing well... 
JACK (remembering) Yes, that’s it...yes, we went to high school together. 
ARNIE You never really talked to me.  I wanted to talk to you, man... 
JACK Yeah...I guess I just wanted you to know, we could’ve been really good friends... 
120A	INT. FERRARI - DAY 
Jack driving...a CELL PHONE RINGS. 
A curious look on Jack’s face, it’s been a while since he’s heard that sound. 
JACK (answering phone) Hello? 
ADELLE (O.S.) Hey Santa, where are you? Everybody’s here. 
JACK Adelle? 
KATE Jack...God, it’s been so long...You look... 
She searches for a kind word, but he looks terrible. 
JACK You look great. 
KATE It’s good to see you... 
She looks at him another moment, then turns... 
KATE (CONT’D) (yelling inside) Lori! Where’s that box?! 
Kate walks inside, Jack follows her in sheepishly. 
125	INT. KATE’S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS 
...Jack accidentally knocks into a stack of boxes, sending a GLASS CANDY DISH CRASHING to the floor, SHATTERING it... 
JACK (bending down) I'm sorry... 
KATE Don’t worry about it, Jack... 
Jack looks up at...a beehive of activity – Lori on the phone, boxes stacked everywhere, TWO MOVERS packing up... 
JACK What’s going on? 
KATE (searching around) I’m moving to Paris...it was right here... (to Lori) It’s a box marked “Jack.”  I put it in the stack for the Salvation Army... 
JACK Paris? 
LORI (to Kate, with attitude) Do you want me to look for the box or call the airline? 
KATE Hey, kind of under a little pressure here. 
LORI Hey, kind of giving up Christmas day for my ex-boss here. 
Jack watches this back and forth. 
KATE You didn’t seem to mind offering to help me on Christmas day when you were unwrapping that Prada bag I gave you. 
LORI Maybe it’s by the wardrobe boxes... 
Kate heads over to some tall wardrobe boxes. 
JACK You’re moving... 
KATE Uh huh. To Paris. My firm has an office there and I’m going to be heading it up. 
JACK (stunned) To Paris. Paris, France. 
KATE (searching the boxes) That’s the one... 
JACK So you’re not at a non- profit firm? 
KATE (a chuckle) Not with what they pay me... 
JACK You’re not married, are you? 
KATE No, Jack, I never got married. You? 
JACK Not exactly... (looking around) Can we just take a minute here?  Maybe get a cup of coffee or something...? 
LORI (yelling) I’ll go for a cup of coffee! 
KATE Yes! 
A relieved smile from Jack... 
KATE (CONT’D) I found it! 
LORI Congratulations. The La Guardia flight’s canceled but I got you out of Kennedy on United at nine. Am I good or what? 
Jack’s smile disappears as Kate hands him a sealed box marked, “Jack”... 
KATE Here you go.  It’s just some old things of yours... 
Jack stands here, looking at the box, then at Kate... 
JACK Do you ever think about us, Kate?  About what might have happened...? 
A bemused LAUGH from Kate.  Then she sees he’s not laughing... 
KATE You’re serious... 
A nod from Jack... 
KATE (CONT’D) I’ll tell you what, Jack, if you’re ever in Paris, look me up. Maybe we’ll go for that cup of coffee. 
One of the movers passes by Jack carrying a box... 
Jack looks at Kate, flush with the realization that this isn’t the same woman he knew thirteen years ago, or left yesterday. 
JACK Sure. Goodbye, Kate. 
He leaves... 
CUT TO: 
126	INT. JACK’S APARTMENT - EVENING 
A scratchy Zeppelin album, the song “All Of My Love,” fills the room. Jack, a fifth of Bushmill’s by his side, goes through the box Kate gave him. 
He removes a worn leather jacket, feeling the soft material, then a “Mondale for President” button, which Jack smiles upon seeing, a couple Neil Young concert ticket stubs... 
He puts the leather jacket on, then sticks the Mondale button on the lapel.  He digs back into the box, finding... 
A messy, dog-eared copy of “Cat’s Cradle”...not the one Kate gave him at the airport, the one she replaced... 
Jack looks at it for a moment...lost in his sadness... then... 
He looks over at the clock, it reads, “8:29.” 
