FANTASTIC MR. FOX 
Written by 
Roald Dahl, Wes Anderson & Noah Baumbach 
March 4, 2007 
EXT. WOODS. DAY 
An apple tree stands alone at the top of a hill. A handsome fox dressed in an Edwardian-style navy velvet suit leans against it with his arms folded and his legs crossed, chewing on a reed of wild grass. He holds an apple core in his paw. He spits out a seed. He looks off across a meadow that descends into the valley below. A female fox strides briskly up the hill. Her coat is a paler, especially beautiful shade of fox-red, and she wears men's trousers and a dark tunic. Fox says as she approaches: 
FOX What'd the doctor say? 
MRS. FOX Nothing. Supposedly, it's just a twenty- four hour bug. He gave me some pills. 
FOX 
(REASSURINGLY) I told you. You probably just ate some bad gristle. Fox brushes the fur on Mrs. Fox's ears with his paws. They walk together along the crest of the hill to a fork in the path. Fox points: 
FOX Should we take the short cut or the scenic route? 
MRS. FOX Let's take the short cut. 
FOX But the scenic route is so much prettier. 
MRS. FOX 
(SHRUGS) OK, let's take the scenic route. 
FOX Great. It's actually slightly quicker, anyway. Fox throws his apple core away over his shoulder and dances a quick circle around Mrs. Fox, wrapping his arm around her waist extravagantly and making her laugh as they start off down the scenic route. 
EXT. FARM. DAY 
A rustic cottage surrounded by a small barn, a tin silo, and a rickity windmill. There is a sheep in a little pasture. A sign on a rail says Berkus Squab. Fox and Mrs. Fox watch from the bushes outside a fence. 
MRS. FOX What is a squab? 
FOX You know what a squab is. It's like a pigeon, I suppose. Anyway, it's a type of bird we can eat. Fox motions toward the edge of the property. 
FOX Should we go through the hole under the horse fence or climb the rail over the bridle path? 
MRS. FOX Well, I guess the horse fence would be a little safer. 
FOX But the bridle path puts us out right next to the squab shack. Mrs. Fox hesitates. She fiddles with her paws. She nods nervously. She shakes slightly. Fox looks at her funny. 
FOX What's wrong? I've never seen you like this. You're acting all skittish. Don't worry. I've been stealing birds for a living since before I could trot. 
MRS. FOX 
(SIGHS) I want to say I hate my job, but that would make it seem more important to me than I want people to think it is. Mrs. Fox puts down her bowl and starts slicing a loaf of bread. A small, narrow fox cub comes out of one of the bedrooms wearing white pants and no shirt. His hair is smashed all onto one side sticking up wrong. He is Ash. 
ASH I'm sick. 
MRS. FOX You're not sick. 
ASH I have a temperature. Mrs. Fox goes quickly over to Ash and puts her paw to his forehead. 
MRS. FOX You don't have a temperature. Ash turns away and says as he goes back into his bedroom: 
ASH I don't want to go. 
MRS. FOX Hurry up. You're going to be late. Mrs. Fox goes back into the kitchen and starts making toast and coffee. Fox whispers to her: 
FOX I love the way you handled that. Mrs. Fox looks at Fox sideways. She says loudly to Ash: 
MRS. FOX Your cousin Kristofferson's coming first thing tomorrow morning. I want you to be extra nice to him, because he's going through a very hard time right now, OK? Ash comes back out of his bedroom. He now wears a white cardigan and white socks with his white pants tucked into them. He says aggressively: 
ASH Where's he going to sleep? 
MRS. FOX We're going to make a bed for him in your room tonight. 
ASH I can't spare the space. Put him in Dad's study. Fox says without looking up from his newspaper: 
FOX Dad's study is occupied by Dad. Ash goes back into his bedroom. Fox lowers his newspaper. He looks around the room. He says to Mrs. Fox: 
FOX I don't want to live in a hole anymore. It makes me feel poor. Mrs. Fox stops buttering the toast. She looks to Fox and says 
SOFTLY: 
MRS. FOX We are poor -- but we're happy. Fox twists his paw in the air, indicating: 
FOX Comme-ci, comme-ga. Anyway, the views are better above ground. Mrs. Fox nods. She brings Fox a plate of toast and a cup of coffee. Fox takes her paw and says: 
FOX I'm seven non-fox-years old now. My father died at seven and a half. I don't want to live in a hole anymore, and I'm going to do something about it. Fox kisses Mrs. Fox's paw. He suddenly eats three slices of toast in a second and a half, savagely but neatly. He stands and picks up his cup of coffee. 
FOX Well, I'm off. Fox throws back the last of his coffee, kisses Mrs. Fox on the back of her neck, grabs his briefcase, tucks his newspaper under his arm, and walks to the door. He shouts 
CHEERILY: 
FOX Have a good day, my darlings! Ash comes out the bedroom again. He has now added a white cape to his ensemble and is in the middle of brushing his teeth. There is toothpaste all over his mouth. He waves briefly to Fox and goes back into his bedroom. Fox looks puzzled. 
FOX What's he wearing? Mrs. Fox shrugs. She smiles sadly and waves to Fox. Fox waves back. He starts to go out but pauses to look down at a folded up section of his newspaper. 
INSERT: A clipping from the real estate section. There is a photograph of a wide, sprawling beech tree at the top of a hill. A caption below it reads: Tree Living, Great Views, Classic Beech 
INT. TREE. DAY 
A door opens into a wide, low space with peeling paint. There is an old chair against the wall, a bare light bulb hanging 
FOX Really? Tell me about them. Silence. Badger sighs. He loosens his tie and settles in. 
BADGER All right... 
CUT TO: A fat man with a huge moustache. He wears a tweed suit which stretches at the buttons so much that they look like they are about to snap off. He holds a carbine rifle. He stands in front of his farm, which contains row upon row of chicken houses. He has an ugly face. He is Boggis. 
BADGER (V.0.) Walter Boggis is a chicken farmer. Probably the most successful in the world. 
INT. BOGGIS' KITCHEN. DAY 
Boggis sits at a chopping block tearing into a boiled chicken with a fork and a meat cleaver. 
BADGER (V.0.) He's unbelievably fat -- which maybe is genetic -- but he also eats three boiled chickens smothered with dumplings every day for breakfast, lunch, supper, and dessert. That's twelve in total, per diem. 
INSERT: 
Boggis' ear. Furry black and white hairs grow out of it. A fly buzzes around, lands on it, and crawls inside. Boggis sticks his pinky in after it and scratches. 
BADGER (V.0.) He never takes a bath, as a result of which his ear holes are clogged with all kinds of muck and wax and bits of chewing gum and dead flies and so on. 
CUT TO: A short, overweight man with one slightly wandering eye. He wears overalls and a cap. He holds a twelve-gauge shotgun. He stands in front of his farm, which consists of several long buildings in rows like a factory. He has a nasty face. He is Bunce. 
BADGER (V.0.) Nathan Bunce is a duck and goosefarmer. He owns about 2 million ducksand 500,000 geese. You might say he's kind ofa pot- bellied dwarf of some kind. 
EXT. SWIMMING POOL. DAY 
Bunce stands up to his nose in water. The depth reads 4FT. 
BADGER (V.0.) He's so short his chin would probably be under water in the shallow end of any swimming pool on the planet. 
INT. BUNCE'S KITCHEN. DAY 
Bunce sits on two stacked telephone books on a chair. He guts a dead goose, cutting out its liver and mashing it with a fork. A plate of doughnuts cools on the table. 
BADGER (V.0.) He eats only doughnuts with smashed-up goose livers injected into them. 
CUT TO: A tall, skinny man in a long trench-coat. He holds a Luger pistol. He stands in front of his farm, which is an apple orchard that stretches over thousands of acres. He has a mean face. He is Bean. 
BADGER (V.0.) Franklin Bean is a turkey and apple farmer. He keeps his birds in an orchard 
(MORE) 
BADGER (V.0.) (cont'd) where they run around squawking and gobbling, surrounded by apples. Bean aims his Luger and shoots a humming bird. Crazy turkeys run about among the trees. 
INT. BEAN'S SHED. DAY 
Bean works at a moonshine-type cider still, boiling chemicals and sipping from a bottle. 
BADGER (V.0.) He's probably anorexic, because he never eats anything. He's on a liquid diet of strong, alcoholic cider, which he makes from his apples. He's as skinny as a pencil, as smart as a whip -- and easily the biggest cusshole I've ever met in my life. 
FOX Good jump, Ash! Remember to keep your tail tucked! Fox looks at Mrs. Fox's canvas. It is a picture of the pond and landscape in severe weather with black clouds and lightning bolts. It is signed Felicity Fox. Fox raises an eyebrow. 
FOX Still painting thunderstorms, I see. Fox sees a small, Samsonite suitcase on the ground next to a pair of yellow sneakers. He frowns. 
FOX Whose suitcase is that? A boy's voice shouts from the high tree branch: 
KRISTOFFERSON Hello, everyone! Good afternoon! Fox, Mrs. Fox, and Ash look up, surprised. A second Fox cub stands poised on the edge of the limb. He is taller, leaner, sleeker, and it is immediately apparent even by his posture infinitely more graceful than Ash. He is Kristofferson. He wears a professional Speedo with a patch on it that says Swim Team. Fox brightens. 
FOX Kristofferson! Welcome to our little tree! I see you brought your swimming trunks! Kristofferson steps off the branch and performs a reserved but perfect jack-knife. He enters the water splashlessly. Fox leaps to his feet, applauding with his paws above his head, whistling and hollering: 
FOX Look at that! This kid's a natural! I'm speechless, Kristofferson! Kristofferson smiles modestly and shrugs. Ash stares at him stonily. Fox turns to Mrs. Fox. 
FOX Plus, he knows karate. 
INT. LIVING ROOM. EVENING 
Fox sits in his armchair reading the Gazette. Ash sits on a braided rug on the floor beside him reading a comic book called The Adventures of White Cape. On the cover, there is a picture of a ferret leaping off a motorcycle. Mrs. Fox is in the kitchen in the background flattening a hunk of dough with a rolling pin. Kristofferson is in the next room practicing tae-kwon-do. He wears khaki shorts, yellow sneakers, and a blue, short-sleeved, button-down shirt. 
ASH Do you think I'm an athlete? 
FOX (without looking up) What are you talking about? 
ASH Well, you know, I think I'm an athlete, and sometimes I feel like you guys don't see me that way. 
FOX What's the sub-text here? Ash thinks for a minute. He looks at Kristofferson in the next room. Kristofferson is now sitting Indian-style on the floor meditating. His paws are turned upward with his thumbs touching his index fingers forming a ring. Ash says loudly to Mrs. Fox in the kitchen: 
ASH How long is Kristofferson supposed to stay with us? 
MRS. FOX Until your uncle gets better. 
ASH Right, but roughly how long do we plan to give him on that? Double-pneumonia isn't even really that big of a deal, is it? In the background, Kristofferson stands up again and starts practicing violent karate kicks. Mrs. Fox leans into the doorway and whispers forcefully: 
MRS. FOX As a matter of fact, it is. He's lucky to be alive. Now -- 
ASH Right, but -- Kristofferson yells suddenly as he does a spinning double- kick with a chop: 
KRISTOFFERSON Ki-ya! Everyone looks startled. Kristofferson resumes his tae-kwon- do practice with an angry, wounded look on his face. Mrs. Fox 
SAYS COLDLY: 
MRS. FOX Lower your voice, Ash. 
EXT. TREE. NIGHT 
Fox and Kylie sit in a porch swing on one of the middle branches of Fox's tree. They drink cups of coffee. Crickets chirp. 
FOX Kids are crazy, aren't they? You got to try it, though. Raising a family. 
KYLIE Yeah. Sometimes I feel like maybe I 
Fox and Kylie in Fox's study earlier that afternoon. Kylie 
SAYS BLITHELY: 
KYLIE Beagles aren't so tough. 
FOX 
(ANNOYED) Yeah? Well, first of all, one of these beagles has chronic rabies, which he's on medication for, and if you get bit by him you have to get shots in your stomach for six months. And, second -- listen, I'm not going to justify this to you. Just pay attention and stop interrupting me. I'm taping this. 
EXT. RAVINE. NIGHT 
Fox and Kylie shimmy down a steep embankment and cross a stream. 
FOX (V.0.) I picked some blueberries, butterflied them with a scalpel, and laced each one with ten milligrams of high-potency sleeping powder. 
INSERT: Fox's paws meticulously sprinkle a powdered mickey into a dissected blueberry and stitch it shut with red thread. 
FOX (V.0.) Enough to tranquilize a charging gorilla. 
CUT TO: Fox and Kylie in Fox's study earlier that afternoon. They now smoke pipes. 
KYLIE How do we make them eat it? 
FOX (smiling, with utter certainty) Beagles love blueberries. 
EXT. RIDGE. NIGHT 
Fox and Kylie push through a bramble and climb to the top of an elderberry bush. Fox looks through his binoculars. 
FOX (V.O.) If we approach with the wind in our faces, we'll smell the chicken livers on Boggis' breath from at least fifty yards away. 
EXT. BARNYARD. DAY 
Seventy-five chickens stand around quietly but anxiously, darting wildly nervous looks at one another. They eat bits of grain off the ground. 
FOX (V.O.) Remember: they aren't very smart, but they're incredibly paranoid -- so always kill a chicken in one bite. 
CUT TO: Fox and Kylie in Fox's study earlier that afternoon. They now drink whiskey sours. Fox repeats: 
FOX One bite, get it? Fox waits for Kylie to respond. Kylie does not. Fox frowns. 
FOX Are you listening to me? I look into your eyes and I can't tell whether you're getting anything I'm saying. Kylie stares at Fox vacantly. He shrugs. (NOTE: an alternate set of eyeballs will be used for any shots indicating Kylie's vacant look.) 
EXT. MEADOW. NIGHT 
Fox and Kylie move swiftly through the tall grass. Fox pauses to sniff the air. He nods. 
FOX A few beagles, as we discussed, but we're ready for that. Fox and Kylie cross a dirt lane and come out of a shallow ditch. Fox licks the pinky of his paw and holds it up in the air. 
FOX Yeah. 
KYLIE What happens now? 
FOX I have no idea. Fox opens the door-flap a crack. He looks out and sees Boggis opening the front gate to let out his beagles and farmhands, barking and shooting, as they search for the intruders. Fox shouts to Kylie: 
FOX Holy cuss! They opened the gate! Follow me again! Lightning quick, Fox and Kylie burst out through the door- flap, race across the barnyard, and dart through the open gate. Up the road, Boggis screams furiously as he runs with his pack of beagles and farmhands. Fox and Kylie fly into the bushes. As they race through the underbrush Fox says 
BREATHLESSLY: 
FOX Let's hit the five and dime on the way home! We need to make some fake price tags and wrap these chickens in wax-paper so it looks like we got them at the butcher shop! Fox and Kylie howl ecstatically. 
MONTAGE: A fox's paw lifts a silver dome off a perfectly roasted chicken with an apple in its mouth. Fox and Mrs. Fox sit at a candle-lit table eating chicken and drinking wine. Ash, Kristofferson, and Kylie sit at a slightly miniature table eating chicken and drinking milk. Fox laughs hysterically as he tells his wife a story. Wine comes out of his nose. Fox and Kylie dash out the door of Boggis' Chicken House #7 carrying three more dead chickens. Lights jolt on. Farmhands run out firing shotguns. Fox and Kylie escape through a hole cut into the electric fence. Fox and Kylie dash out the window of Bunce's Poultry Barn C carrying two dead ducks and a goose. Alarms ring. Farmhands run out firing pistols. Fox and Kylie escape through a hole knocked into a brick wall. Fox and Kylie dash out the gates of Bean's Apple Orchard XII carrying two dead turkeys and a basket of apples. Automatic doors close. Farmhands run out firing rifles. Fox and Kylie escape through a hole chopped into a burning barricade. Fox and Kylie run full-speed through a clover field in the dark. The camera zooms in slowly on their faces as they ford a stream, leap a fallen hawthorn, and cross into the willow glade. They look exhilarated. 
INT. KITCHEN. EVENING 
Mrs. Fox studies a crayon price-tag labelled $4 attached to a wax-paper-wrapped parcel. She opens the parcel and holds up a dead chicken by the leg. There is a small metal clip around its ankle. She examines it. She frowns. Fox comes in, grabs an apple out of a bowl, and starts back out of the room. 
MRS. FOX Where'd you get this chicken? 
FOX 
(SHRUGS) I picked it up at the Five-and-Dime last night on my way back from -- 
MRS. FOX It's got a Boggis Farms tag around its ankle. 
FOX 
(HESITATES) Huh. Must've escaped from there before I bought it. 
INT. DINING ROOM. EVENING 
Ash, Kristofferson, and Kylie sit at the children's table eating dinner. Next to Ash, there is a small, slightly beaten- up statue of a fox with his front legs raised in the air holding a medal above his head. Kylie points at it. 
KYLIE What's that? 
ASH This? Nothing. Just some old trophy I won for being an athlete. Fox and Mrs. Fox sit at the adults' table. Fox guzzles down a last sip of wine and says with his mouth full of food: 
FOX I'm supposed to cover this book party at some animal's nest in a tobacco field down the hill, so me and Kylie are going to hop over there and give it a whirl. Don't wait up. Fox pulls his napkin out of his collar, drops it on the table, and stands up. Mrs. Fox asks cooly: 
MRS. FOX What's the book? 
FOX 
(HESITATES) Some memoir. I'll get him to sign you a copy. Fox kisses Mrs. Fox on the cheek. She looks at him suspiciously. 
FOX Dinner was -- (doing a little gesture) -- pitch-perfect. 
EXT. WOODS. NIGHT 
KYLIE WHISPERS: 
KYLIE Look at all this apple juice. 
FOX 
(STERNLY) Apple juice? Apple juice? We didn't come here for apple juice. This is some of the strongest, finest alcoholic cider money can buy -- or that can even be stolen. It burns in your throat, boils in your stomach, and tastes almost exactly like pure, melted gold. 
(SUDDENLY) Let's crack open one these 'shine jars and do a shooter. A match strikes in the darkness. Fox and Kylie look around the room frantically. On the highest shelf, peering out from behind a huge jar, they see an enormous rat in a striped shirt with a lit match in his claw. He puts the flame in his mouth to snuff it out and holds the matchstick in his teeth. He is longer than a fox and wiry, but with a small pot-belly. He wears a black beret and moves like a beatnik. He takes a draw from a small rubber tube inserted in the neck of his cider jar. He says with a slightly sinister New 
ORLEANS ACCENT: 
RAT Y'all are trespassin', now. Illegally. 'Round these parts, we don't take kindly to cider poachers. Fox and Rat stare at each other. Fox says, finally: 
FOX You've aged badly, Rat. 
RAT You're gettin' a little long in the tooth, yourself, partner. Rat spins around and hurls himself scuttling over a shelf, down the wall, and through the air onto the brick floor at Fox's feet. He flicks open a switchblade and brandishes it. He hisses. 
Kylie shrieks and darts into a hole where a brick is missing in the wall. Fox takes an old-fashioned boxing stance. 
RAT How's your old lady doin'? Kylie peers out from his hole in the wall nervously. Fox and Rat circle each other slowly. 
FOX Do you refer to my wife? 
RAT She was the town tart, in her day. Wild and foot-loose and pretty as a mink stole. She was a creme brulee -- until you made an honest woman out of her, Mr. Fox. Kylie says, intrigued, from his hole: 
KYLIE Is that true? 
FOX 
(ANNOYED) Of course, not. I mean, certainly, she lived. We all did. It was a different time. Let's not use a double-standard. She marched against the -- 
KYLIE But town tart? 
FOX Shut up. Rat lunges at Fox with his switchblade. Fox dodges nimbly. He cocks an eyebrow and smiles: 
FOX That was close, Rat. Be careful. 
RAT Oh, I'm as careful as a -- A door at the top of the stairs opens suddenly with a loud creak. Rat and Fox look terrified. They both dart away and hide behind cider jars. A heavy-set, middle-aged housekeeper carrying a rolling pin comes down the stairs and walks straight over to the shelf where Fox is hiding. 
HOUSEKEEPER How many jars should I bring up, ma'am? A strong, almost masculine woman's voice answers from 
UPSTAIRS: 
MASCULINE VOICE I don't know. Two, I guess. The housekeeper grabs the two jars directly next to the one Fox is hiding behind and tucks them under her arm. Fox tenses his body. He shivers slightly. A graze of the red fur of his arm sticks out barely from behind his jar. The housekeeper hesitates. 
HOUSEKEEPER He drank three yesterday, ma'am. 
MASCULINE VOICE All right, take three. The housekeeper grabs Fox's jar. Fox closes his eyes. 
KYLIE 
(AGONIZED) Stop! Stop! Stop! Fox and Mrs. Fox turn quickly to Kylie standing in the doorway with a red blanket wrapped around his shoulders. Ash 
and Kristofferson stand behind him. They look terrified. Kylie shouts in a pained voice: 
KYLIE You say one thing, she says another, and it all changes back again! The point of a shovel pierces the ceiling. Everyone looks up and stares in shock. Fox suddenly leaps across the room with a wild energy, scrambles halfway up a wall, and throws over two chairs. 
FOX I've got it! There's not a moment to lose! Why didn't I think of this before? 
MRS. FOX Think of what? 
FOX Think of the one thing a fox does quicker than a man, quicker than any other animal in the world! (at the top of his lungs) 
DIG!!! 
CUT TO: Everyone digging furiously. Dirt flies everywhere. The shot booms down into the ground, among the roots of the tree, through buried pebbles, layers of soil, and subterranean mineral deposits. 
TITLE: 
1 HOUR LATER The shot stops at the bottom of a dark hole deep, deep underground. Mrs. Fox lies on the floor, breathing heavily, with a lit lantern at her side. The cubs are sprawled out around her. Kylie leans in the corner with his shirt off tied around his waist. Fox stands up and clears his throat. Everyone looks at him. 
FOX I think it's time for me to give us a pep talk and explain some things. (commencing a speech) A very long time ago -- 
MRS. FOX May I have a word with you privately? 
FOX 
(HESITATES) Well, we're in a hole. Where -- 
MRS. FOX Just on the other side of this mineral deposit. Follow me. Fox reluctantly follows Mrs. Fox through a crack in the bedrock and into a small air-pocket with glittering quartz walls. She wheels on Fox: 
MRS. FOX I'm going to lose my temper now. 
FOX 
(PAUSE) When? 
MRS. FOX Right now. 
FOX 
(PAUSE) Well, when -- Mrs. Fox scratches Fox across the face, slicing a quick sliver into his fur. Fox cringes away with his paws up protectively. He lowers his paws. His eyes fill with tears. (NOTE: the scar in Fox's fur never grows back.) Mrs. Fox takes a deep breath. She says: 
MRS. FOX Twelve fox-years ago, you made a promise to me while we were caged inside that fox- trap that, if we survived, you would never steal another chicken, goose, turkey, duck, or squab, whatever they are. I believed you. Why did you lie to me? 
FOX 
(SIMPLY) Because I'm a wild animal. 
BUNCE I'm cussing loving this! 
BOGGIS Who's hyper-cussing-active now? Bean throws his tractor into top gear. The teeth of the giant shovels clank against each other, ripping through the tree's roots. 
INSERT: A temperature gauge with its needle pushing the limits of the red. 
CUT TO: A grizzled, white-haired man in a greasy yellow and black jumpsuit and coke-bottle protective eyeglasses. A patch on his pocket says E. Malloy. He watches the farmers digging crazily with the tractors. Sparks from the mayhem reflect dancing on his lenses. 
EARL MALLOY These machines weren't made to be handled like this. 
DISSOLVE TO: The hill with half its earth dug out from under the tree. The tree still stands precariously above the wild tractors. 
DISSOLVE TO: The hill now razed with the fallen, old beech tree laying on its side as the tractors dig deeper. 
DISSOLVE TO: The tractors almost completely below ground in a deep crater. A crowd of neighbors and local press from the town has gathered and watches as the tractors stop digging and rumble up out of the crater. The motors go quiet. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean climb down from their tractors. They look angry and tired. They stand among the workers and onlookers. A television reporter with an Action 13 camera crew confronts 
BEAN: 
REPORTER Farmer, correct me if I'm misreading the data, you've successfully destroyed the scenery, but the alleged fox remains at large. What will you three prominent farmers do now? 
BEAN Well, Dan, I can tell you what we're not going to do. We're not going to let him go. 
REPORTER Are you concerned about the possibility 
OF -- 
BEAN I have no further dialogue in this scene. Bean turns away from the reporter and pulls Boggis and Bunce aside. He addresses them with calm intensity: 
BEAN I'm not going home until we smoke this son-of-a-cuss out his hole, string him up on a clothesline, and fly him like a kite. Boggis, how many men have you got working on your farm? 
BOGGIS Thirty-five. 
BEAN Bunce? 
BUNCE Thirty-six. 
BEAN And I've got thirty-seven. That's 108 men altogether. Now what do I got here? Two quitters -- or are you staying with? 
CUT TO: That night. A helicopter with a Bean, inc. decal on the side of it circles the crater scanning the dark terrain with a searchlight. There are tents, trucks, and 108 men gathered around the perimeter. They sit on bricks and logs and are armed with bats, pistols, rifles, shotguns, bows and arrows, and hatchets. 
INT. HOLE. NIGHT 
Fox, his family, and Kylie lie exhausted on the floor of their deep hole. The walls are covered with knotted roots and vines. Fox says to Kylie: 
FOX One of those slovenly farmers is probably wearing my tail as a necktie by now. 
KYLIE You're paranoid, Foxy. 
CUT TO: Mrs. Bean sitting in her kitchen watching television next to an extremely skinny, freckled twelve year-old boy. The boy points at the screen and laughs to himself: 
FOX You don't just bang into somebody's cussing tunnel! 
BADGER Are you cussing yelling at me! 
FOX You're cussing right I'm cussing yelling! 
BADGER We're all cussing starving to death because of you, you mangy, cussing, little cuss! Fox and Badger snarl and scratch at each other, circling around the hole. They calm down slightly. Badger continues: 
BADGER We've been digging in circles for three days. Half the woods've been obliterated. Nobody can get out. Right now my wife's huddled at the bottom of the flint-mine with Mrs. Mole, Mrs. Beaver, Rabbit's ex- girlfriend, no food, no water, and twenty- seven hungry, whining, starving, little animal brats. This is a total cluster- cuss for everybody! Fox looks around the room at the entire gaunt, dirty, emaciated assembly. Everyone stares at him angrily. He swallows. The mole says softly.: 
MOLE I just want to see a little -- 
(SUDDENLY CRYING) -- sunshine. 
FOX 
(PUZZLED) But you're nocturnal, Phil. Your eyes barely even open, on a good day. 
MOLE 
(ENRAGED) I'm sick of your double-talk. We have rights! Beaver's son looms over Ash and Kristofferson in a muddy alcove on the side of the tunnel. He pokes Ash in the chest with the finger of his paw. 
BEAVER'S SON We don't like you, and we hate your dad. You're too snazzy. You dress like a girl. You're creative. Now grab some of that mud, chew it in your mouth, and swallow it. 
ASH (scared and disgusted) I'm not going to eat mud! 
BEAVER'S SON Cuss, yeah, you are. Beaver's son grabs a handful of mud, smashes it into Ash's mouth, and forces his jaws up and down in a chewing motion. Ash coughs and splutters. Kristofferson frowns. He takes off his shoes with his feet. He says with a quiet ferocity: 
KRISTOFFERSON Don't do that. Beaver's son looks to Kristofferson. He looks down at Kristofferson's feet. 
BEAVER'S SON Why'd you take your shoes off? 
KRISTOFFERSON So I don't break your nose when I kick it. Kristofferson kicks Beaver's son in the face, karate chops his neck, elbow-jabs him twice in the gut, and flips the enormous youth over his shoulder and into the mud. Beaver's son gets up, crying, and walks out of the alcove. Ash watches blankly with mud all over his mouth as Kristofferson puts his shoes back on. 
ASH I can fight my own fights. Badger and Fox stand facing each other at the end of the tunnel. Badger says aggressively: 
BADGER Those farmers aren't going to quit until they've got you and every member of your family nailed upside-down to a bloody stick with your eyes gorged out. 
FOX 
(FREAKED OUT) This is getting a little too personal. Badger waits for Fox to continue. Fox stares into space. 
FOX Give me a minute. Fox turns and walks away. He faces the wall of the tunnel. He sits down on a rock. Everyone watches him uncertainly. They look at each other. Badger starts to say something, but Kylie cuts him off sharply: 
KYLIE 
(SHARPLY) Shh! Badger falls silent. Fox sits with his chin on his paw, lost in concentrated thought. He stands up. He nods repeatedly and begins to pace. His eyes dart from one spot to another. His paws move abruptly around in the air drawing lines and shapes. He freezes and looks straight up at the ceiling of the tunnel. He snaps the fingers of his paw and looks to the others. He says with a cautious excitement: 
FOX I've got an idea. 
FOX 
SECOND -- Fox seizes a black chicken violently. 
CUT TO: Ash and Kristofferson running down the tunnel carrying two dead, black chickens. They turn three corners and arrive at the mossy hollow. They look inside. 
MONTAGE: Fox and the other diggers tunnel under the silo in front of Bunce Industries. Cows eat grass in the pasture above. Fox and the other diggers comes out of a hole in the floor and dance an ecstatic jig in a great storeroom lined to the ceiling with plucked ducks and geese. Smoked hams and sides of bacon dangle from the rafters. 
Fox and the other diggers tunnel under the windmill in front of Bean, inc. Sheep eat clover in the field above. Fox and the other diggers comes out of a hole in the floor and dance an ecstatic jig in a corrugated plastic and metal pen among dozens of gobbling turkeys. Fox and the other diggers race dancing ecstatically back through the complex network of tunnels carrying dead turkeys, geese, bacon, flour, salt, sugar, jars of cider, and a portable television set. 
INT. FLINT-MINE. DAY 
The flint-mine is a large but cozy space with stone walls, a dirt floor, a small kitchen, and a fireplace. There are rows of cots, sleeping bags, boxes, blankets, and suitcases for all the refugee animals. All the animals have gathered together and drink cider cocktails while small rabbits, skunks, and field mice set the table. The room is festooned with garlands. A well-dressed mole smoking a pipe plays the piano. A bespectacled rabbit leans against it humming a tune. Weasel stands in the corner talking with Beaver. 
WEASEL What am I going to do? I'm going to hold him to the terms of the contract. It's not my fault they uprooted it. Kristofferson serves cranberry punch from a tureen in the corner. Ash goes over to him and holds out a mug. 
ASH They say I owe you an apology for some of the mean things I said about your father's illness. His double-pneumonia or whatever they're calling it now. Kristofferson ladles Ash a cupful. 
KRISTOFFERSON 
OK. 
ASH So there it is. I hope we can continue our relationship as cousins or family members or however you want to define 
IT -- (suddenly more intense) -- but do me a favor for yourself. The next time you have a problem with something I've said, come to me as a fox 
(MORE) 
ASH (CONT'D) and let's deal with it right then and not let it blow up into a whole, huge thing involving parents and so on. Agreed? Ash drinks his punch in one long sip and holds out the empty mug for a refill. Kristofferson nods slowly. He points at Ash with his ladle. 
KRISTOFFERSON I'm going to teach you karate. Badger sits next to the fireplace with Fox and Kylie. 
BADGER I can imagine how painful, even just emotionally, that must be for you. 
FOX 
(UNEASY) Well, you know, it's not the end of the world. 
BADGER 
(MORE ANIMATED) Oh, but, Foxy, how humiliating! Having your whole tail blown clean off by a -- 
FOX 
(COOLY) Can we drop it? Kristofferson starts to refill Ash's mug again. Ash suddenly puts his paw over the brim. Kristofferson hesitates. Ash raises an eyebrow and says mysterriously: 
ASH Ever tasted one of Mrs. Bean's famous nutmeg-ginger-apple snaps? 
EXT. CAMP. DAY 
INT. SEWER SYSTEM. NIGHT 
The flood blasts out of a wide pipe rocketing the animals into a murky, brick cavern with drainpipes on all sides and three inches of black water on its floor. Fox picks himself up, dazed and scared, and looks around at his soaked friends and their families. 
FOX What the cuss just happened? Something with water. That was dangerous. Is anyone hurt? 
BADGER 
(FURIOUS ) We're all hurt! My entire flint-mine just got demolished! 
FOX Let's do a head-count! Everybody pick a buddy! Each animal turns to his neighbor and establishes their buddy relationship. Fox looks wildly agitated as his eyes dart about, searching. He shouts: 
FOX Where'd the boys go? Ash? Kristofferson? Ash's voice cracks on the other side of the cavern: 
ASH I'm here. Everyone turns to see Ash standing at the mouth of a smaller pipe. He looks devastated and terrified. Fox points to him. 
FOX Ash! Who's your buddy? 
ASH Kristofferson, but I lost him. 
FOX You lost him? Where were you? 
ASH We went for cookies. Everyone turns to Fox. Fox yells desperately: 
FOX Kristofferson! Fox sprints around the cavern, splashing, digging, and ducking in and out of tunnels as the others join his frantic search. His voice sounds pained as he shouts: 
FOX Kristofferson! Kristofferson! Kristofferson! 
CUT TO: The three farmers standing next to the fire truck. Bean holds a soaked, half-conscious Kristofferson up in the air by the tail. Kristofferson is quietly crying. 
BEAN Wrap this wet, little mutt in a newspaper and put him in a box with some holes punched in the top. 
INT. SEWER SYSTEM. NIGHT 
Everyone has gathered together. They are all in a state of shock. Fox turns to Mrs. Fox beside him. 
FOX Your brother's going to kill me, if he survives his double-pneumonia. Beaver runs into the brick cavern out of a drainpipe, 
SHOUTING: 
BEAVER There's only one way out of this sewer, but the manhole cover's closed, and there's a station-wagon parked on it -- which means we're permanently stuck down here. 
BADGER 
(BITTERLY) You still think we beat 'em, Foxy? Everyone turns to Fox and stares at him coldly. Fox sits down on the floor, in the water. He says quietly: 
FOX Somebody take over. I'm not in charge anymore. 
Everyone looks around at each other. They don't know what to do. Mrs. Fox sits down in the water next to Fox. 
FOX You're stepping on my lines. 
ASH Keep telling it. 
FOX So we dug. And the whole time I put paw over paw, scooping dirt and pebbles with your mother digging like crazy beside me, I kept wondering: who is this little boy going to be? 
ASH Or girl. 
FOX Or girl, right -- because at that point we didn't know. Fox grabs Ash by his shoulders and looks him in the eye. 
FOX Ash, I'm so glad he was you. Fox hugs Ash tightly, holds him for an instant, then let's go. He turns to the group. 
FOX Badger, organize a search party and try to find Kristofferson. Maybe he's alive. I'm sorry, everyone. I wish -- 
(HESITATES) Well, good-bye. Fox looks across the cavern to Mrs. Fox standing with her back to him. She turns to face him. Her eyes are burning. Fox smiles sadly. He races away down the drain-pipe. Everyone watches him disappear. Badger hesitates. He addresses the 
GROUP UNCERTAINLY: 
BADGER I guess we should probably split into a certain number of groups and start doing something, right? 
INT. CONDUIT. NIGHT 
Fox sprints full-speed in the darkness. His claws scratch rattling along the iron floor and splash through puddles of shallow water. Fox stops suddenly. He stands up tall on his hind legs. His ears perk up. One pins back. He listens. 
CUT TO: Badger carrying a lantern leading Ash, Mole, and two small rabbits down a drainpipe. Badger calls out: 
BADGER Kristofferson? Hello? Can you hear us? Rat's voice echoes in the darkness: 
RAT Y'all lookin' for somethin'? Nothin' down here but rusty bottle-caps and drainin' water. Everyone stops short. Rat drops into the pipe from an overhead drain ahead of them. He says ominously: 
RAT They got the boy. 
BADGER 
(FROZEN) Who's got him? 
RAT The farmers three. You know who I'm talkin' about. 
BADGER 
(HESITATES) They've kidnapped him? 
RAT Well-done, Mr. Badger. You're a smart man. They want to trade the son for his poppa. 
Rat flicks a folded letter through the air. Badger catches it. He opens it. Kylie looks over his shoulder. Badger frowns. 
BADGER Why'd they write this in letters cut out of magazines? 
KYLIE To protect their identities. (on second thought) Oh, right, but then why'd they sign their names? Plus, we already knew who they were because they're trying to kill us. 
FIELD MOUSE Not particularly, except maybe domestic/ kitchen sink-type stuff, but I have a hunch I might just -- 
(DEVIL-MAY-CARE) -- land a few good punches before I get stepped on, poisoned, or lured to my death by a little piece of cheese. Who's to say? 
FOX (smiling with admiration) You're a cuss of a lot bigger than you look, Rickity. Kylie tugs at Fox's sleeve. Fox turns to look at him. Kylie 
SAYS SHYLY: 
KYLIE I didn't get a job yet -- or a Latin name. What's my strength? Fox raises an eyebrow. He thinks of something: 
FOX Listen, you're Kylie. You're an unbelievably nice guy. Your job is really just to... be available, I think. I don't know your Latin name. I doubt they even had opossums in ancient Rome. Kylie puts his hands in his pockets and scowls. 
INT. SEWER SYSTEM. NIGHT 
Mrs. Fox puts the finishing touches on a vast mural painted on the longest, tallest wall of the brick cavern. She stands on a ladder. Her sleeves are rolled up, and she is splattered with twelve different colors of paint. She looks down to Fox standing below with an entourage of Kylie, Badger, Linda, and Rickity. The animal children mop and scrub in the background. Ash stands leaning against a push-broom watching his parents. Fox surveys the mural. It is highly detailed, filled with the textures of the landscape, and decorated with images of flowers, leaves, acorns, etc. It is signed Felicity Fox. Fox opens his arms wide and shouts: 
FOX It's stupendous. Where's us? 
MRS. FOX (pointing to a spot) Right here. 
FOX Paint an X. 
INSERT: The bottom of the map. Mrs. Fox's paw paints a red X and puts a circle around it. The shot zooms out to reveal the entire valley -- no longer a painting on the brick wall. Lighting strikes at the horizon. Dark clouds loom over the three farmers' compounds. It looks exactly like one of Mrs. Fox's paintings of a landscape in a rainstorm. Bean's helicopter circles the area. 
EXT. HILL. NIGHT 
A bicycle messenger with a head-lamp rings his bell as he approaches the farmers' camp. He stops in front of Bean and hands him an envelope. Bean tears it open and unfolds the letter inside. 
INSERT: 
A note written in letters cut out of magazines and pasted onto a piece of paper. It reads: Dear Farmers Boggis, Bunce, and Bean, I have no alternative but to agree to your terms. Move the station wagon and open the manhole cover below the foot of the drainpipe next to the cobbler's shop and meet me there today at 10 A.M. sharp. I will hand myself over to you in exchange for the boy's safe return. Cordially, Mr. Fox Bean frowns. He studies the letter. He shows it to Boggis and Bunce. 
BEAN Why'd he write this in letters cut out of magazines? 
BUNCE 
(SHRUGS) I don't know, but you did the same thing. 
BEAN 
(UNEASY) I don't trust this guy. Anyway, set up the ambush. 
INT. ATTIC. DAY 
The top floor of Bean Annex. The room is filled with boxes of Christmas ornaments, old sports equipment, two stained mattresses, and a broken birdcage. Cobwebs hang from the rafters below the sloped roof. Kristofferson stands with his hands in his pockets looking out between the slats from inside a padlocked apple crate on top of a gun locker in the corner. He clears his throat. He calls out politely: 
KRISTOFFERSON Could I have a cup of water, please? Kristofferson waits for a reply, but no one answers. He whistles to himself for a minute. He clears his throat again. He calls out: 
KRISTOFFERSON Excuse me! Excuse me? 
FOX That's not soap. 
KYLIE 
(HESITATES) Well, then why does he have that bubbly -- 
FOX He's rabid. With rabies. I've heard about this beagle. The beagle stands up. Fox says carefully: 
FOX Easy, boy. Fox takes a cautious step toward the beagle. He holds out the back of his paw for the beagle to sniff. He says back over his shoulder to Kylie and Ash: 
FOX I'm going to try to befriend him. I feel like there's a tenderness in his eyes. Fox takes another step. He makes a soft, kissing noise. The beagle watches him calmly. 
FOX Yes, I'm right. He's a good boy. A little lonely, maybe, but -- Fox takes another cautious step. 
FOX -- but terribly sweet. Hello, there, boy. Is your name Spitz? That's German, isn't it? 
KYLIE (aside, to Ash) I thought he said you never look a beagle in the eye. 
FOX 
(COAXINGLY) Why, you're just as sweet as a -- Fox and the beagle lock eyes. The pupils of the beagle's eyes contract then completely disappear, and the whites turn bright red. Fox's eyes open wider than their sockets. The rabid beagle erupts ballistically, attacking like an enraged maniac. His chain rips out of the cement. Fox, Kylie, and Ash shriek and scream, sprinting frantically around the courtyard as the rabid beagle, frothing, roaring, and snapping, tries desperately to kill them. Fox shouts, his voice cracking like a grandmother's: 
FOX Climb the trellis! In well under a second, Fox, Kylie, and Ash scale the trellis six stories -- Kylie's pants catching on a nail and ripping off on the way up -- and find themselves standing on the roof of Bean Annex. Kylie wears blue Fruit-of-the-Looms with a pattern of stars, moons, and planets on them. They all look down at the rabid beagle, which continues to pitch an insane fit, running in circles after its tail at the bottom of the courtyard. Fox takes in their new surroundings. He says, pleased: 
FOX So the attic is probably in the area right up around here somewhere, I figure, huh? Kylie and Ash, panting and dripping with sweat, both stare at Fox vacantly. (NOTE: a second set of alternate eyeballs indicating Kylie's vacant look will be used for Ash in this shot.) 
FOX 
(IRRITATED) Come on, guys. Stay with me. We did good. That's just some dog. Let's not get traumatized. 
EXT. ROOF. DAY 
Bean's helicopter lands on top of the Nag's Head. Fires smolder and farmers continue to chase around after animals in the village streets below. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean, leaning over and holding onto their hats, run to the chopper and climb inside. They take off. 
CUT TO: The street below. An orange and yellow Citroen van screeches into the melee. Painted yellow letters spell Badoit et Fils, Destruction des Animaux Nuisibles on the side of it with an image of a trapped fox. An old man with a grey moustache and a young man with a black moustache, both dressed in orange-and-yellow-striped uniforms, jump out of the van. They open the side door and start unloading stacks of metal cages. 
CUT TO: Rabbit still running full-steam down a country lane being pursued by the six farmhands. 
INT. ATTIC. DAY 
Kristofferson stands inside the apple crate leaning against the wall with his legs crossed and one arm akimbo with his hand on his hip. There is a clanking sound from above. Kristofferson looks up. A trap door in the ceiling creaks open. Fox, Kylie, and Ash look inside, down at Kristofferson. Kristofferson smiles oddly and says in a surprised, fancy-meeting-you-here voice: 
KRISTOFFERSON Hi! 
CUT TO: Fox and Kylie lowering Ash into the room with three different- colored shoelaces tied together and belted around his waist. Ash holds the shoelace and keeps a paw behind his back like a mountaineer. His feet touch down on the shelf. He runs to the apple crate and jiggles the padlock. He hesitates. He says 
SUDDENLY: 
ASH Can I get one of those karate lessons real quick? 
ASH I'm sorry. 
KRISTOFFERSON 
(DAZED) That's all right. You were just trying to unlock the apple crate. 
ASH No, I mean I'm sorry about -- 
KRISTOFFERSON (picking himself up) Oh, you mean from before. The apology you owed me which you never actually said. 
ASH Yeah. Kristofferson nods sadly. He takes a deep breath. He nods again. 
KRISTOFFERSON That's all right, too. Throw me the shoelace, please. Ash smiles. 
CUT TO: Badger trapped in his cage. He hears something. He looks quickly down the alley. The old, orange van turns the corner and approaches, bumping over potholes. Badger shrinks into the corner of the cage and mutters grimly to himself: 
BADGER Badoit et fils. 
A cobblestone beside Badger suddenly drops straight down and disappears into the ground. Badger recoils, scared and confused. Mrs. Fox pokes her head up through the hole. She is beaded with perspiration and breathes heavily. Her fur is wildly dishevelled. She looks to the van driving up the alley. She looks to Badger. She extends her paw to him and says 
FIERCELY: 
MRS. FOX Let's go! 
EXT. YARD. DAY 
Fox, Kylie, Ash, and Kristofferson come around the side of the building. They run to their motorcycle, outside the courtyard doors. They freeze. The front gates to the compound are closed and bolted. Bean's helicopter waits on top of the vegetable garden with its rotar-blades whirling. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean stand in front of Bean Annex with their weapons drawn. Fox sees his tail around Bean's collar. His eyes narrow. His jaw sets. He says to himself with growing emotion: 
FOX Your tractors uprooted my tree. Your posse hunted my family. Your gunmen kidnapped my nephew. Your rat insulted my wife -- and you shot off my tail. 
(STEELY) I'm not leaving here without that neck- tie. Bean smiles his sickly smile. Fox smiles back defiantly. Kylie looks utterly baffled. Ash says mystically: 
ASH I weigh less than a slice of bread. 
FOX 
(HESITATES) What? 
ASH I'll be right back. Ash runs. Fox, Kylie, and Kristofferson watch, shocked, as Ash sprints back to the courtyard doors. The three farmers open fire at him. Fox, Kylie, and Kristofferson duck and take cover behind a hay-bale. 
Ash dodges bullets. He jumps off the balls of his feet with his arms out over a sprinkler-pipe and swings like a gymnast onto a clothesline, then flies through the air doing another of his spectacularly awkward four-armed and three-legged back- flips. He lands on the handle of one of the courtyard doors 
AND SCREAMS: 
ASH Ki-ya! Ash cyclone-chops the doorknob. The lock clicks. Ash's eyes light up. Ash drops to the ground. He digs a hole and burrows into the dirt as bullets fly everywhere. He breathes in through his nose and out through his mouth. Fox watches with his jaw hanging open. The courtyard doors smash apart and the rabid beagle tears out into the vegetable garden growling, foaming, and thrashing crazily. The farmers shriek and scream and run around, panicking, with their guns blazing. Fox, Kylie, Ash, and Kristofferson jump onto their motorcycle. The beagle rips the tail from Bean's neck, shreds it, chews it up, and swallows it. Fox deflates for an instant, then recovers. He looks to Ash on the back of the motorcycle, behind him, with his hands around Fox's waist. He says with the deepest affection and respect: 
FOX Ash, that was pure, wild animal craziness. You're an athlete. Ash swallows. He beams. He sits up straighter. (NOTE: from this point onwards, an alternate version of Ash will be used which is slightly taller, slightly leaner, and animated slightly more gracefully.) Fox kick-starts the motorcycle and races across the farm. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean scramble onto the roof of a car port with an old, white Mercedes convertible under it. The snarling beagle barks and snaps below them. They watch as: Fox steers the motorcycle toward a broken apple cart at the edge of the property. He guns the motor and yells: 
FOX Holy swearing cuss!!! 
FOX He doesn't seem to know. Silence. Fox shouts to the wolf with a strange hitch in his 
VOICE: 
FOX I have a phobia of wolves! The wolf does not answer. It breathes heavily with its mouth open. Its teeth are long, sharp, and yellow. Its tongue hangs out, and its eyes are wild. Fox looks back at it with the identical expression for a minute, mesmerized -- then Fox closes his mouth and his eyes soften. Fox raises his paw in the air. The wolf blinks a few times. It raises its paw in the air. It turns away and trots off into the woods. Fox says wistfully: 
FOX What a beautiful creature. Wish him luck, boys. Fox guns the motor. Gravel spits from under the spinning tires, and they tear off down the road. The shot booms down into the ground, below the grass, through buried pebbles, layers of soil, and subterranean mineral deposits. 
TITLE: THREE DAYS LATER (2 1/2 Fox Weeks) The shot continues to descend past Badger and his family having dinner in a nicely furnished drain-pipe, past Rabbit and his family watching Magnum, P.I. on the stolen, portable television set in a well-appointed cement tunnel, past Beaver and Mrs. Beaver hosting Mole and Weasel for cocktails in a tasteful sewer-conduit. The shot stops in a small chamber adjacent to the brick cavern. The walls are filled with electrical cables, wires, pipes, and a large, new mural which depicts the Fox's former view of the valley as seen from their tree with a trompe 1'oeil window-frame around it. It is signed Felicity Fox. Ash and Kristofferson sit Indian-style meditating on a braided rug. Mrs. Fox works mixing paints and turpentine at an easel in the corner. There is an armchair with a folded-up copy of the Gazette on its cushion in the center of the room under a glowing lamp. Classical music plays on a radio. 
Fox swings his head into the room from a tunnel. He says 
GENTLY: 
FOX My darlings? Everyone looks to Fox. He signals them to follow him. 
INT. DRAINPIPE. NIGHT 
The cement conduit with the iron grating above it. Fox and his family walk briskly down the pipe. A knitted, woolen, artificial tail has been sewn into the seat of Fox's trousers. 
ASH Where are we going? 
FOX Nobody knows. 
ASH We were in the middle of a meditation practice. 
FOX Watch your step. Fox takes everyone through an opening and starts climbing a metal ladder. He says theatrically: 
FOX Let's see, now. Where does this lead? 
MRS. FOX Oh, no, Foxy. It's filthy. 
FOX Keep a good grip, everyone. 
ASH This better be worth it. 
FOX I think I see a little sliver of light. What's this? Is that a door? 
MRS. FOX You're a terrible actor, Foxy. 
KRISTOFFERSON Do you smell something? Is that -- 
(SNIFFS TWICE) -- freon? 
FOX Shh. I'm going to crack open this trap door and see if something's on the other side. I highly doubt it, though. There's probably just more sewer. Fox clears his throat. Pause. 
FOX You know, wouldn't it be surprising if -- 
ASH Open it. Fox pushes open the trap door and crawls out. Everyone follows him. 
