FARGO 
FARGO a screenplay by Ethan Coen and Joel Coen 
The following text fades in over black: 
This is a true story. The events depicted in this film took place in Minnesota in 1987. At the request of the survivors, the names have been changed. Out of respect for the dead, the rest has been told exactly as it occured. 
FLARE TO WHITE 
FADE IN FROM WHITE 
Slowly the white becomes a barely perceptible image:  white particles wave over a white background.  A snowfall. 
A car bursts through the curtain of snow. 
The car is equipped with a hitch and is towing another car, a brand-new light brown Cutlass Ciera with the pink sales sticker showing in its rear window. 
As the car roars past, leaving snow swirling in their dirft, the title of the film fades in. 
FARGO 
Green highway signs point the way to MOOREHEAD, MINNESOTA/FARGO, NORTH DAKOTA.  The roads for the two cities diverge.  A sign says WELCOME TO NORTH DAKOTA and another just after says NOW ENTERING FARGO, ND, POP. 44,412. 
The car pulls into a Rodeway Inn. 
HOTEL LOBBY 
A man in his early forties, balding and starting to paunch, goes to the reception desk.  The clerk is an older woman. 
CLERK And how are you today, sir? 
MAN Real good now.  I'm checking in - Mr. Anderson. 
The man prints "Jerry Lundega" onto a registration card, then hastily crosses out the last name and starts to print "Anderson." 
As she types into a computer: 
CLERK Okay, Mr. Anderson, and you're still planning on staying with us just the night, then? 
ANDERSON You bet. 
HOTEL ROOM 
The man turns on the TV, which shows the local evening news. 
NEWS ANCHOR - whether they will go to summer camp at all.  Katie Jensen has more. 
KATIE It was supposed to be a project funded by the city council;  it was supposed to benefit those Fargo-Moorehead children who would otherwise not be able to afford to attend a lakeshore summer camp.  But nobody consulted city controller Stu Jacobson... 
CHAIN RESTAURANT 
Anderson sits alone at a table finishing dinner.  Muzak plays.  A middle-aged waitress approaches holding a pot of regular coffee in one hand and decaf in the other. 
WAITRESS Can I warm that up for ya there? 
ANDERSON You bet. 
The man looks at his watch. 
THROUGH A WINDSHIELD 
We are pulling into the snowswept parking lot of a one-story brick building.  Broken neon at the top of the building identifies it as the Jolly Troll Tavern.  A troll, also in neon, holds a champagne glass aloft. 
INSIDE 
The bar is downscale even for this town.  Country music plays on the jukebox. 
Two men are seated in a booth at the back.  One is short, slight, youngish.  The other man is somewhat older, and dour.  The table in front of them is littered with empty long-neck beer bottles.  The ashtray is full. 
Anderson approaches. 
ANDERSON I'm, uh, Jerry Lundegaard - 
YOUNGER MAN You're Jerry Lundegaard? 
JERRY Yah, Shep Proudfoot said - 
YOUNGER MAN Shep said you'd be here at 7:30. What gives, man? 
MINNEAPOLIS SUBURBAN HOUSE 
Jerry enters through the kitchen door, in a parka and a red plaid Elmer Fudd hat.  He stamps snow off his feet.  He is carrying a bag of groceries which he deposits on the kitchen counter. 
JERRY Hon?  Got the growshries. 
VOICE Thank you, hon.  How's Fargo? 
JERRY Yah, real good. 
VOICE Dad's here. 
DEN 
Jerry enters, pulling off his plaid cap. 
JERRY How ya doin', Wade? 
Wade Gustafson is mid-sixtyish, vigorous, with a full head of gray hair.  His eyes remain fixed on the TV. 
WADE Yah, pretty good. 
JERRY Whatcha watchin' there? 
WADE Norstars. 
JERRY ...  Who they playin'? 
WADE OOOoooh! 
His reaction synchronizes with a reaction from the crowd. 
KITCHEN 
Jerry walks back in, taking off his coat.  His wife is putting on an apron.  Jerry nods toward the living room. 
JERRY Is he stayin' for supper, then? 
WIFE Yah, I think so...  Dad, are you stayin' for supper? 
WADE (off) Yah. 
DINING ROOM 
Jerry, his wife, Wade and Scotty, twelve years old, sit eating. 
SCOTTY May I be excused? 
JERRY Sure, ya done there? 
SCOTTY Uh-huh.  Goin' out. 
WIFE Where are you going? 
SCOTTY Just out.  Just McDonald's. 
JERRY Back at 9:30. 
SCOTTY Okay. 
WADE He just ate.  And he didn't finish. He's going to McDonald's instead of finishing here? 
WIFE He sees his friends there.  It's okay. 
WADE It's okay?  McDonald's?  What do you think they do there?  They don't drink milkshakes, I assure you! 
WIFE It's okay, Dad. 
JERRY Wade, have ya had a chance to think about, uh, that deal I was talkin' about, those forty acres there on Wayzata? 
WADE You told me about it. 
JERRY Yah, you said you'd have a think about it.  I understand it's a lot of money - 
WADE A heck of a lot.  What'd you say you were gonna put there? 
JERRY A lot.  It's a limited - 
WADE I know it's a lot. 
SALESMAN You bet. 
JERRY You wouldn't have an extra ticket there? 
SALESMAN They're playin' the Buckeyes! 
JERRY Yah. 
SALESMAN Ya kiddin'! 
JERRY'S CUBICLE 
Jerry re-enters. 
JERRY Well, he never done this before, but seein' as it's special circumstances and all, he says I can knock one hunnert off that TruCoat. 
CUSTOMER One hundred!  You lied to me, Mr. Lundegaard.  You're a bald-faced liar! 
Jerry sits staring at his lap. 
CUSTOMER ...  A fucking liar - 
WIFE Bucky, please! 
Jerry mumbles into his lap: 
JERRY One hunnert's the best we can do here. 
CUSTOMER Oh, for Christ's sake, where's my goddamn checkbook.  Let's get this over with. 
WIDE EXTERIOR:  TRUCK STOP 
There is a restaurant with many big rigs parked nearby, and a motel with an outsize Paul Bunyan and Babe the Blue Ox flanking its sign:  BLUE OX MOTEL. 
MOTEL ROOM 
Carl Showalter and Gaear Grimsrud are in the twin beds having sex with two truck-stop hookers. 
CARL Oh, Jesus, yeah. 
HIS HOOKER There ya go, sugar. 
GRIMSRUD Nnph. 
HIS HOOKER Yeah.  Yeah.  Oh, yeah. 
LATER 
The couples like in their respective beds, gazing at the offscreen TV. 
ED MCMAHON -  Johnny's guests tonight will be Lee Majors, George Wendt, and Steve Boutsikaros from the San Diego Zoo, so keep that dial - 
LUNDEGAARD KITCHEN 
We hear a morning show on television.  Jean Lundegaard is making coffee in the kitchen as Scott eats cereal at the table. 
JEAN I'm talkin' about your potential. 
SCOTT (absently) Uh-huh. 
JEAN You're not a C student. 
SCOTT Uhn. 
JEAN And yet you're gettin' C grades. It's this disparity there that concerns your dad and me. 
SCOTT Uh-huh. 
JEAN You know what a disparity is? 
SCOTT (testily) Yeah! 
JEAN Okay.  Well, that's why we don't want ya goin' out fer hockey. 
SCOTT Oh, man! 
The phone rings. 
SCOTT ...  What's the big deal?  It's an hour - 
JERRY Carl somethin'? 
SHEP Never heard of him.  Don't vouch for him. 
JERRY Well, that's okay, he's a buddy of the guy ya vouched for, so I'm not worryin'.  I just, I was wonderin', see, I gotta get in touch with 'em for, I might not need it anymore, sumpn's happenin', see - 
SHEP Call 'em up. 
JERRY Yah, well, see, I did that, and I haven't been able to get 'em, so I thought you maybe'd know an alternate number or what have ya. 
SHEP Nope. 
Jerry slaps his fist into his open palm and snaps his fingers. 
JERRY Okay, well, real good, then. 
CAR 
Carl is driving.  Grimsrud stares out front. 
After a beat: 
CARL ...  Look at that.  Twin Cities. IDS Building, the big glass one. Tallest skyscraper in the Midwest. After the Sears, uh, Chicago... You never been to Minneapolis? 
GRIMSRUD No. 
CARL ...  Would it kill you to say something? 
GRIMSRUD I did. 
CARL "No." First thing you've said in the last four hours.  That's a, that's a fountain of conversation, man.  That's a geyser.  I mean, whoa, daddy, stand back, man.  Shit, I'm sittin' here driving, man, doin' all the driving, whole fuckin' way from Brainerd, drivin', tryin' to, you know, tryin' to chat, keep our spirits up, fight the boredom of the road, and you can't say one fucking thing just in the way of conversation. 
Grimsurd smokes, gazing out the window. 
CARL ...  Well, fuck it, I don't have to talk either, man.  See how you like it... 
He drives. 
CARL ...  Total silence... 
JERRY'S CUBICLE 
He is on the phone. 
JERRY Yah, real good.  How you doin'? 
VOICE Pretty good, Mr. Lundegaard. You're damned hard to get on the phone. 
JERRY Yah, it's pretty darned busy here, but that's the way we like it. 
VOICE That's for sure.  Now, I just need, on these last, these financing documents you sent us, I can't read the serial numbers of the vehicles on here, so I - 
JERRY But I already got the, it's okay, the loans are in place, I already got the, the what, the - 
VOICE Yeah, the three hundred and twenty thousand dollars, you got the money last month. 
JERRY Yah, so we're all set. 
VOICE Yeah, but the vehicles you were borrowing on, I just can't read the serial numbers on your applicaton.  Maybe if you could just read them to me - 
JERRY But the deal's already done, I already got the money - 
VOICE Yeah, but we have an audit here, I just have to know that these vehicles you're financing with this money, that they really exist. 
JERRY Yah, well, they exist all right. 
VOICE I'm sure they do - ha ha!  But I can't read their serial numbers here.  So if you could read me - 
JERRY Well, but see, I don't have 'em in front a me - why don't I just fax you over a copy - 
VOICE No, fax is no good, that's what I have and I can't read the darn thing - 
JERRY Yah, okay, I'll have my girl send you over a copy, then. 
VOICE Okay, because if I can't correlate this note with the specific vehicles, then I gotta call back that money - 
JERRY Yah, how much money was that? 
VOICE Three hundred and twenty thousand dollars.  See, I gotta correlate that money with the cars it's being lent on. 
Jean glances back as she steps up from the toilet seat to the tank. 
The groaning of the door ends with the wood around its knob splintering and the knob itself falling out onto the floor. 
The door swings open. 
Grimsrud and Carl enter. 
THEIR POV 
Room empty, window open. 
Carl strides to the window and hoists himself out. 
Grimsrud opens the medicine cabinet and delicately taps aside various bottles and tubes, seeking the proper unguent. 
He finds a salve but after a moment sets it down, noticing something in the mirror. 
The shower curtain is drawn around the tub. 
He steps toward it. 
As he reaches for the curtain, it explodes outward, animated by thrashing limbs. 
Jean, screaming, tangled in the curtain, rips it off its rings and stumbles out into the bedroom.  Grimsrud follows. 
BEDROOM 
Jean rushes toward the door, cloaked by the shower curtain but awkwardly trying to push it off. 
UPSTAIRS LANDING 
Still thrashing, Jean crashes against the upstairs railing, trips on the curtain and falls, thumping crazily down the stairs. 
Grimsrud trots down after her. 
A PLAQUE:  WADE GUSTAFSON INCORPORTATED 
INT. WADE'S OFFICE 
Wade sits behind his desk; another man rises as Jerry enters. 
JERRY How ya doin' there, Stan?  How are ya, Wade? 
Stan Grossman shakes his hand. 
STAN Good to see ya again, Jerry.  If these numbers are right, this looks pretty sweet. 
JERRY Oh, those numbers are all right, bleemee. 
WADE This is do-able. 
STAN Congratulations, Jerry. 
JERRY Yah, thanks, Stan, it's a pretty - 
WADE What kind of finder's fee were you looking for? 
JERRY ...  Huh? 
STAN The financials are pretty thorough, so the only thing we don't know is your fee. 
JERRY ...  My fee?  Wade, what the heck're you talkin' about? 
WADE Stan and I're okay. 
JERRY Yah. 
WADE We're good to loan in. 
JERRY Yah. 
WADE But we never talked about your fee for bringin' it to us. 
JERRY No, but, Wade, see, I was bringin' you this deal for you to loan me the money to put in.  It's my deal here, see? 
Wade scowls, looks at Stan. 
STAN Jerry - we thought you were bringin' us an investment. 
JERRY ...  Wade, it's Jerry, I - we gotta talk, Wade, it's terrible... 
Beat. 
LIVING ROOM 
Jerry stands in wide shot, hands on hips, looking down at a telephone. 
After a motionless beat he picks up the phone and punches in a number. 
JERRY ...  Yah, Wade Gustafson, please. 
BLACK 
Hold in black. 
A slow tilt down from night sky brings the head of a large paper-mache figure into frame.  It is a flannel-shirt woodsman carrying a double-edged ax over one shoulder.  As we hear the rumble of an approaching car, the continuing tilt and boom down brings us down the woodsman's body to a pedestal. 
A sweep of headlights illuminates a sign on the pedestal: WELCOME TO BRAINDERD - HOME OF PAUL BUNYAN. 
The headlights sweep off and a car hums past and on into the background.  The two-lane highway is otherwise empty. 
INT. CAR 
Carl drives.  Grimsrud smokes and gazes out the window. From the back seat we hear whimpering. 
Grimsrud turns to look. 
Jean lies bound and curled on the back seat underneath a tarpaulin. 
GRIMSRUD Shut the fuck up or I'll throw you back in the trunk, you know. 
CARL Geez.  That's more'n I've heard you say all week. 
Grimsrud stares at him, then turns back to the window. 
At a loud WHOOP Carl starts and looks back out the rear window.  Fifty yards behind a state trooper has turned on his gumballs. 
Carl eases the car onto the shoulder. 
CARL Ah, shit, the tags... 
Grimsrud looks at him. 
CARL ...  It's just the tags.  I never put my tags on the car.  Don't worry, I'll take care of this. 
He looks into the back seat as the car bounces and slows on the gravel shoulder. 
CARL ...  Let's keep still back there, lady, or we're gonna have to, ya know, to shoot ya. 
Grimsrud stares at Carl. 
CARL ...  Hey!  I'll take care of this! 
Both cars have stopped.  Carl looks up at the rear-view mirror. 
The trooper is stopped on the shoulder just behind them, writing in his citation book. 
Carl watches. 
We hear the trooper's door open. 
The trooper walks up the shoulder, one hand resting lightly on top of his holster, his breath steaming in the cold night air. 
Carl opens his window as the trooper draws up. 
CARL How can I help you, officer? 
The trooper scans the inside of the car, taking his time. 
Grimsrud smokes and gazes calmly out his window. 
Finally: 
TROOPER This is a new car, then, sir? 
CARL It certainly is, officer.  Still got that smell! 
TROOPER You're required to display temporary tags, either in the plate area or taped inside the back window. 
Grimsrud notices. 
EXT. ROAD 
The car approaches, slowing. 
Carl, with the trooper's body hoisted halfway up, is frozen in the headlights. 
The car accelerates and roars past and away.  We just make out the silhouettes of two occupants in front. 
INT. CIERA 
Grimsrud slides into the driver's seat.  He squeals into a U- turn, the driver's door slamming shut with his spin. 
Small red tail lights fishtail up ahead.  The pursued car churns up fine snow. 
Grimsrud takes the cigarette from his mouth and stubs it in his ashtray.  We hear the churning of the car wheels and the pinging of snow clods and salt on the car's underside. 
In the back seat, Jean starts screaming. 
Grimsrud is not gaining on the tail lights. 
He fights with the wheel as his car swims on the road face. 
The red tail lights ahead start to turn.  With a distant crunching sound, they disappear. 
The headlights now show only empty road, starting to turn. 
Grimsrud frowns and slows. 
His headlights show the car up ahead off the road, crumpled around a telephone pole, having failed to hold a turn. 
Grimsrud brakes. 
Jean slides off the back seat and thumps into the legwell. 
Grimsrud sweeps his gun off the front seat, throws open his door and gets out. 
EXT. ROAD 
The wrecked car's headlights shine off into a snowfield abutting the highway.  A young man in a down parka is limping across the snowfield, away from the wrecked car. 
Grimsrud strides calmly out after the injured boy.  He raises his gun and fires. 
With a poof of feathers, a hole opens up in the boy's back and he pitches into the snow. 
Grimsrud walks up to the wreck and peers in its half-open door. 
A young woman is trapped inside the twisted wreckage, injured. 
Snow swirls in the headlights of the wreck. 
Grimsrud raises his gun and fires. 
AN OIL PAINTING 
A blue-winged teal in flight over a swampy marshland.  The room in which it hangs is dark.  We hear off-screen snoring. 
We track off to reveal an easel upon which we see a half- completed oil of a grey mallard. 
The continuing track reveals a couple in bed, sleeping.  The man, fortyish, pajama-clad, is big, and big-bellied.  His mouth is agape.  He snores.  His arms are flung over a woman in her thirties, wearing a nightie, mouth also open, not snoring. 
We hold for a long beat on their regular breathing and snoring. 
The phone rings. 
The woman stirs. 
WOMAN Oh, geez... 
She reaches for the phone. 
WOMAN ...  Hi, it's Marge... 
The man stirs and clears his throat with a long deep rumble. 
MARGE ...  Oh, my.  Where?...  Yah... Oh, geez... 
The man sits up, gazes stupidly about. 
Marge looks around as they start walking. 
MARGE Where is everybody? 
LOU Well - it's cold, Margie. 
BY THE WRECK 
Laid out in the early morning light is the wrecked car, a pair of footprints leading out to a man in a bright orange parka face down in the bloodstained snow, and one pair of footsteps leading back to the road. 
Marge is peering into the car. 
MARGE Ah, geez.  So...  Aw, geez. Here's the second one...  It's in the head and the ... hand there, I guess that's a defensive wound.  Okay. 
Marge looks up from the car. 
MARGE ...  Where's the state trooper? 
Lou, up on the shoulder, jerks his thumb. 
LOU Back there a good piece.  In the ditch next to his prowler. 
Marge looks around at the road. 
MARGE Okay, so we got a state trooper pulls someone over, we got a shooting, and these folks drive by, and we got a high-speed pursuit, ends here, and this execution-type deal. 
LOU Yah. 
MARGE I'd be very surprised if our suspect was from Brainerd. 
LOU Yah. 
Marge is studying the ground. 
MARGE Yah.  And I'll tell you what, from his footprints he looks like a big fella - 
Marge suddenly doubles over, putting her head between her knees down near the snow. 
LOU Ya see something down there, Chief? 
MARGE Uh - I just, I think I'm gonna barf. 
LOU Geez, you okay, Margie? 
MARGE I'm fine - it's just morning sickness. 
She gets up, sweeping snow from her knees. 
MARGE ...  Well, that passed. 
LOU Yah? 
MARGE Yah.  Now I'm hungry again. 
LOU You had breakfast yet, Margie? 
MARGE Oh, yah.  Norm made some eggs. 
LOU Yah?  Well, what now, d'ya think? 
MARGE Let's go take a look at that trooper. 
BY THE STATE TROOPER'S CAR 
Marge's prowler is parked nearby. 
Marge is on her hands and knees by a body down in the ditch, again looking at footprints in the snow.  She calls up to the road: 
MARGE There's two of 'em, Lou! 
LOU Yah? 
MARGE Yah, this guy's smaller than his buddy. 
LOU Oh, yah? 
DOWN IN THE DITCH 
In the foreground is the head of the state trooper, facing us.  Peering at it from behind, still on her hands and knees, is Marge. 
WADE Heck, you don't know!  You're just whistlin' Dixie here!  I'm sayin', the cops, they can advise us on this!  I'm sayin' call a professional! 
JERRY No!  No cops!  That's final!  This is my deal here, Wade!  Jean is my wife here! 
STAN I gotta tell ya, Wade, I'm leanin' to Jerry's viewpoint here. 
WADE Well - 
STAN We gotta protect Jean.  These - we're not holdin' any cards here, Wade, they got all of 'em.  So they call the shots. 
JERRY You're darned tootin'! 
WADE Ah, dammit! 
STAN I'm tellin' ya. 
WADE Well...  Why don't we... 
He saws a finger under his nose. 
WADE ...  Stan, I'm thinkin' we should offer 'em half a million. 
JERRY Now come on here, no way, Wade! No way! 
STAN We're not horse-trading here, Wade, we just gotta bite the bullet on this thing. 
JERRY Yah! 
STAN What's the next step here, Jerry? 
JERRY They're gonna call, give me instructions for a drop.  I'm supposed to have the money ready tomorrow. 
WADE Dammit! 
THE CASHIER 
She rings up two dollars forty. 
CASHIER How was everything today? 
JERRY Yah, real good now. 
PARKING LOT 
Snow continues to fall.  Jerry and Stan stand bundled in their parkas and galoshes near a row of beached vehicles. Wade sits behind the wheel of an idling Lincoln, waiting for Stan. 
STAN Okay.  We'll get the money together. Don't worry about it, Jerry.  Now, d'you want anyone at home, with you, until they call? 
JERRY No, I - they don't want - they're just s'posed to be dealin' with me, they were real clear. 
STAN Yah. 
Jerry pounds his mittened hands together against the cold. 
JERRY Ya know, they said no one listenin' in, they'll be watchin', ya know. Maybe it's all bull, but like you said, Stan, they're callin' the shots. 
STAN Okay.  And Scotty, is he gonna be all right? 
JERRY Yah, geez, Scotty.  I'll go talk to him. 
There is a tap at the horn from Wade, and Stan gets into the Lincoln. 
STAN We'll call. 
The Lincoln spits snow as it grinds out of the lot and fishtails out onto the boulevard. 
SCOTTY'S BEDROOM 
Scotty lies on the bed, weeping.  Jerry enters and perches uncomfortably on the edge of his bed. 
JERRY ...  How ya doin' there, Scotty? 
SCOTT Dad!  What're they doing?  Wuddya think they're doin' with Mom? 
JERRY It's okay, Scotty.  They're not gonna want to hurt her any. These men, they just want money, see. 
SCOTT What if - what if sumpn goes wrong? 
JERRY No, no, nothin's goin' wrong here. Grandad and I, we're - we're makin' sure this gets handled right. 
MARGE ...  Well, yah.  Who's this? 
VOICE This is Mike Yanagita.  Ya know - Mike Yanagita.  Remember me? 
MARGE ...  Mike Yanagita! 
MIKE Yah! 
Marge props herself up next to the still-sleeping Norm. 
MARGE Yah, yah, course I remember. How are ya?  What time is it? 
MIKE Oh, geez.  It's quarter to eleven. I hope I dint wake you. 
MARGE No, that's okay. 
MIKE Yah, I'm down in the Twin Cities and I was just watching on TV about these shootings up in Brainderd, and I saw you on the news there. 
MARGE Yah. 
MIKE I thought, geez, is that Margie Olmstead?  I can't believe it! 
MARGE Yah, that's me. 
MIKE Well, how the heck are ya? 
MARGE Okay, ya know.  Okay. 
MIKE Yah? 
MARGE Yah - how are you doon? 
MIKE Oh, pretty good. 
MARGE Heck, it's been such a long time, Mike.  It's great to hear from ya. 
MIKE Yah...  Yah, yah.  Geeze, Margie! 
GUSTAFSON OLDS GARAGE 
Jerry is on the sales floor, showing a customer a vehicle. 
JERRY Yah, ya got yer, this loaded here, this has yer independent, uh, yer slipped differential, uh, yer rack- and-pinion steering, yer alarm and radar, and I can give it to ya with a heck of a sealant, this TruCoat stuff, it'll keep the salt off - 
CUSTOMER Yah, I don't need no sealant though. 
JERRY Yah, you don't need that.  Now were you thinking of financing here? You oughta be aware a this GMAC plan they have now, it's really super - 
ANOTHER SALESMAN Jerry, ya got a call here. 
JERRY Yah, okay. 
JERRY'S CUBICLE 
He sits in and picks up his phone. 
JERRY Jerry Lundegaard. 
VOICE All right, Jerry, you got this phone to yourself? 
JERRY Well ... yah. 
VOICE Know who this is? 
JERRY Well, yah, I got an idea.  How's that Ciera workin' out for ya? 
VOICE Circumstances have changed, Jerry. 
JERRY Well, what do ya mean? 
VOICE Things have changed.  Circumstances, Jerry.  Beyond the, uh ... acts of God, force majeure... 
JERRY What the - how's Jean? 
A beat. 
CARL ...  Who's Jean? 
JERRY My wife!  What the - how's - 
A complementary track shows two rays being pushed along a buffet line, piled high with many foods. 
MARGE AND NORM AT A TABLE 
They sit next to each other at a long cafateria-style Formica table, silently eating. 
A hip with a hissing walkie-talkie enters frame. 
GARY Hiya, Norm.  How ya doin', Margie? How's the fricasse? 
MARGE Pretty darn good, ya want some? 
GARY No, I gotta - hey, Norm, I thought you were goin' fishin' up at Mile Lacs? 
NORM Yah, after lunch. 
He goes back to his food. 
MARGE Whatcha got there? 
Gary hands her a flimsy.  Marge takes it with one hand and looks, her other hand frozen with a forkful of food. 
GARY The numbers y'asked for, calls made from the lobby pay phone at the Blue Ox.  Two to Minneapolis that night. 
MARGE Mm. 
GARY First one's a trucking company, second one's a private residence. A Shep Proudfoot. 
MARGE Uh-huh...  A what? 
GARY Shep Proudfoot.  That's a name. 
MARGE Uh-huh. 
GARY Yah. 
MARGE ...  Yah, okay, I think I'll drive down there, then. 
GARY Oh, yah?  Twin Cities? 
Norm, who has been eating steadily throughout, looks over at Marge with mild interest.  He stares for a beat as he finishes chewing, and them swallows and says: 
NORM ...  Oh, yah? 
KITCHEN OF LUNDEGAARD HOUSE 
Jerry, Wade, and Stan Grossman sit around the kitchen table. It is night.  The scene is harshly toplit by a hanging fixture.  On the table are the remains of coffee and a cinammon filbert ring. 
WADE Dammit!  I wanna be a part a this thing! 
JERRY No, Wade!  They were real clear! They said they'd call tomorrow, with instructions, and it's gonna be delivered by me alone! 
WADE It's my money, I'll deliver it - what do they care? 
STAN Wade's got a point there.  I'll handle the call if you want, Jerry. 
JERRY No, no.  See - they, no, see, they only deal with me.  Ya feel this, this nervousness on the phone there, they're very - these guys're dangerous - 
WADE All the more reason!  I don't want you - with all due respect, Jerry - I don't want you mucking this up. 
JERRY The heck d'ya mean? 
WADE They want my money, they can deal with me.  Otherwise I'm goin' to a professional. 
He points at a briefcase. 
WADE ...  There's a million dollars here! 
JERRY No, see - 
WADE Look, Jerry, you're not sellin' me a damn car.  It's my show here. That's that. 
STAN It's the way we prefer to handle it, Jerry. 
THE DOWNTOWN RADISSON HOTEL 
Marge is at the reception desk. 
MARGE How ya doin'? 
Marge and Shep silently talk. 
Jerry stares, swallows. 
INSIDE THE CUBICLE 
MARGE - Wednesday night? 
Shep is shaking his head. 
SHEP Nope. 
MARGE Well, you do reside their at 1425 Fremont Terrace? 
SHEP Yep. 
MARGE Anyone else residing there? 
SHEP Nope. 
MARGE Well, Mr. Proudfoot, this call came in past three in the morning. It's just hard for me to believe you can't remember anyone calling. 
Shep says nothing. 
MARGE ...  Now, I know you've had some problems, struggling with the narcotics, some other entanglements, currently on parole - 
SHEP So? 
MARGE Well, associating with criminals, if you're the one they talked to, that right there would be a violation of your parole and would end with you back in Stillwater. 
SHEP Uh-huh. 
MARGE Now, I saw some rough stuff on your priors, but nothing in the nature of a homicide... 
Shep stares at her. 
MARGE ...  I know you don't want to be an accessory to something like that. 
SHEP Nope. 
MARGE So you think you might remember who those folks were who called ya? 
JERRY'S OFFICE 
Jerry is worriedly pacing behind his desk.  At a noise he looks up. 
Marge has stuck her head in the door. 
MARGE Mr. Lundegaard? 
JERRY Huh?  Yah? 
MARGE I wonder if I could take just a minute of your time here - 
JERRY What...  What is it all about? 
MARGE Huh?  Do you mind if I sit down - I'm carrying quite a load here. 
Marge plops into the chair opposite him. 
MARGE ...  You're the owner here, Mr. Lundegaard? 
JERRY Naw, I...  Executive Sales Manager. 
MARGE Well, you can help me.  My name's Marge Gunderson - 
JERRY My father-in-law, he's the owner. 
MARGE Uh-huh.  Well, I'm a police officer from up Brainerd investigating some malfeasance and I was just wondering if you've had any new vehicles stolen off the lot in the past couple of weeks - specifically a tan Cutlass Ciera? 
Jerry stares at her, his mouth open. 
MARGE ...  Mr. Lundegaard? 
JERRY ...  Brainerd? 
MARGE Yah.  Yah.  Home a Paul Bunyan and Babe the Blue Ox. 
JERRY ...  Babe the Blue Ox? 
MIKE Yah, if you're an engineer, yah, you could do a lot worse.  Of course, it's not, uh, it's nothin' like your achievement. 
MARGE It sounds like you're doin' really super. 
MIKE Yah, well, I, uh ... it's not that it didn't work out -  Linda passed away.  She, uh... 
MARGE I'm sorry. 
MIKE Yah, I, uh...  She had leukemia, you know... 
MARGE No, I didn't... 
MIKE It was a tough, uh ... it was a long -  She fought real hard, Marge... 
MARGE I'm sorry, Mike. 
MIKE Oh, ya know, that's, uh - what can I say?... 
He holds up his drink. 
MIKE ...  Better times, huh? 
Marge clinks it. 
MARGE Better times. 
MIKE I was so...  I been so ... and then I saw you on TV, and I remembered, ya know...  I always liked you... 
MARGE Well, I always liked you, Mike. 
MIKE I always liked ya so much... 
MARGE It's okay, Mike -  Should we get together another time, ya think? 
MIKE No - I'm sorry!  It's just -  I been so lonely - then I saw you, and... 
He is weeping. 
MIKE ...  I'm sorry...  I shouldn't a done this...  I thought we'd have a really terrific time, and now I've... 
MARGE It's okay... 
MIKE You were such a super lady ... and then I...  I been so lonely... 
MARGE It's okay, Mike... 
CARLTON CELEBRITY ROOM 
Carl Showalter is sitting at a small table with a tarty- looking blonde in a low-cut gown.  Each holds a drink. 
CARL Just in town on business.  Just in and out.  Ha ha!  A little of the old in-and-out! 
WOMAN Wuddya do? 
Carl looks around. 
CARL Have ya been to the Celebrity Room before?  With other, uh, clients? 
WOMAN I don't think so.  It's nice. 
CARL Yeah, well, it depends on the artist. You know, Jose Feliciano, ya got no complaints.  Waiter! 
The reverse shows a disappearing waiter and the backs of many, many people sitting at tables between us and the very distant stage.  Jose Feliciano, very small, performs on a spotlit stool.  The acoustics are poor. 
Carl grimaces. 
CARL ...  What is he, deaf?...  So, uh, how long have you been with the escort service? 
WOMAN I don't know.  Few munce. 
CARL Ya find the work interesting, do ya? 
WOMAN ...  What're you talking about? 
A DIRTY BEDROOM 
Carl is humping the escort. 
We hear the door burst open. 
Jerry enters and sits on the foyer chair to take off his galoshes. 
SCOTT'S VOICE ...  Dad? 
JERRY Yah. 
SCOTT'S VOICE Stan Grossman called. 
JERRY Yah, okay. 
SCOTT'S VOICE Twice. 
JERRY Okay. 
SCOTT'S VOICE ...  Is everything okay? 
JERRY Yah. 
Thoonk - the first boot comes off. 
SCOTT'S VOICE Are you calling Stan? 
JERRY Well...  I'm goin' ta bed now. 
CARL'S CAR 
Carl mumbles as he drives, underlit by the dim dash lights, one hand now holding a piece of rag to his shredded jaw. 
CARL ...  Fnnkn ashlzh...  Fnk... 
ROAD 
Carl's car roars into frame, violently swirling the snow. Its red tail lights fishtail away. 
FADE OUT 
HOLD IN BLACK 
HARD CUT TO:  BRIGHT - LOOKING THROUGH A WINDSHIELD 
It is a starky sunny day.  We are cruising down a street of humble lookalike houses. 
We pan right as we draw toward one house in particular.  In its driveway a man in a hooded parka shovels snow.  He notices the approaching car and gives its driver a wave. 
The driver is Gary, the Brainderd police officer.  He gives a finger-to-the-head salute and pulls over. 
OUTSIDE 
Gary slams his door shut and the other man plants his shovel in the snow. 
MAN How ya doin'? 
GARY Mr. Mohra? 
MAN Yah. 
GARY Officer Olson. 
MAN Yah, right-o. 
The two men caucus the driveway without shaking hands and without standing particularly close.  They stand stiffly, arms down at their sides and breath streaming out of their parka hoods.  Each has an awkward leaning-away posture, head drawn slightly back and chin tucked in, to keep his face from protruding into the cold. 
MAN ...  So, I'm tendin' bar there at Ecklund && Swedlin's last Tuesday and this little guy's drinkin' and he says, 'So where can a guy find some action - I'm goin' crazy down there at the lake.'  And I says, 'What kinda action?' and he says, 'Woman action, what do I look like,'  And I says 'Well, what do I look like, I don't arrange that kinda thing,' and he says, 'I'm goin' crazy out there at the lake' and I says, 'Well, this ain't that kinda place.' 
GARY Uh-huh. 
MAN So he says, 'So I get it, so you think I'm some kinda jerk for askin',' only he doesn't use the word jerk. 
GARY I unnerstand. 
MAN And then he calls me a jerk and says the last guy who thought he was a jerk was dead now.  So I don't say nothin' and he says, 'What do ya think about that?'  So I says, 'Well, that don't sound like too good a deal for him then.' 
GARY Ya got that right. 
MAN And he says, 'Yah, that guy's dead and I don't mean a old age.'  And then he says, 'Geez, I'm goin' crazy out there at the lake.' 
GARY White Bear Lake? 
MAN Well, Ecklund && Swedlin's, that's closer ta Moose Lake, so I made that assumption. 
VOICE His wife? 
MARGE Linda. 
VOICE No. 
MARGE Linda Cooksey? 
VOICE No.  No.  No.  They weren't - he, uh, he was bothering Linda for about, oh, for a good year. Really pestering her, wouldn't leave her alone. 
MARGE So ... they didn't... 
VOICE No.  No.  They never married. Mike's had psychiatric problems. 
MARGE Oh.  Oh, my. 
VOICE Yah, he - he's been struggling. He's living with his parents now. 
MARGE Oh.  Geez. 
VOICE Yah, Linda's fine.  You should call her. 
MARGE Geez.  Well - geez.  That's a suprise. 
MARGE'S CAR 
Marge drives, gazing out at the road. 
MARGE AT A DRIVE-THROUGH 
She leans out of her open window and yells at the order panel: 
MARGE Hello? 
MARGE AT THE GUSTAFSON OLDS GARAGE 
She sits in the lot, eating a breakfast sandwich. 
JERRY LUNDEGAARD'S OFFICE 
Jerry is at his desk using a blunt pencil to enter numbers onto a form.  Beneath the form is a piece of carbon paper and beneath that another form copy, which Jerry periodically checks.  The carbon-copy form shows thick smudgy, illegible entries. 
Jerry hums nervously. 
Glass rattles as someone taps at his door. 
Jerry looks up and freezes, mouth hanging open, brow knit with worry. 
Marge sticks her head in the door. 
MARGE Mr. Lundegaard?  Sorry to bother you again.  Can I come in? 
She starts to enter. 
JERRY Yah, no, I'm kinda - I'm kinda busy - 
MARGE I unnerstand.  I'll keep it real short, then.  I'm on my way out of town, but I was just -  Do you mind if I sit down?  I'm carrying a bit of a load here. 
JERRY No, I - 
But she is already sitting into the chair opposite with a sigh of relieved weight. 
MARGE Yah, it's this vehicle I asked you about yesterday.  I was just wondering - 
JERRY Yah, like I told ya, we haven't had any vehicles go missing. 
MARGE Okay, are you sure, cause, I mean, how do you know?  Because, see, the crime I'm investigating, the perpetrators were driving a car with dealer plates.  And they called someone who works here, so it'd be quite a coincidence if they weren't, ya know, connected. 
JERRY Yah, I see. 
MARGE So how do you - have you done any kind of inventory recently? 
JERRY The car's not from our lot, ma'am. 
MARGE but do you know that for sure without - 
JERRY Well, I would know.  I'm the Executive Sales Manager. 
MARGE Yah, but - 
MARGE The day of our homicides. 
VOICE Yah. 
Marge is peering to one side as she drives, looking through the bare trees that border the road on a declivity that runs down to a large frozen lake. 
MARGE And this guy is... 
VOICE Lundegaard's father-in-law's accountant. 
MARGE Gustafson's accountant. 
VOICE Yah. 
MARGE But we still haven't found Gustafson. 
VOICE (crackle) -  looking. 
MARGE Sorry - didn't copy. 
VOICE Still missing.  We're looking. 
MARGE Copy.  And Lundegaard too. 
VOICE Yah.  Where are ya, Margie? 
We hear, distant but growing louder, harsh engine noise, as of a chainsaw or lawnmower. 
MARGE Oh, I'm almost back - I'm driving around Moose Lake. 
VOICE Oh.  Gary's loudmouth. 
MARGE Yah, the loudmouth.  So the whole state has it, Lundegaard and Gustafson? 
VOICE Yah, it's over the wire, it's everywhere, they'll find 'em. 
MARGE Copy. 
VOICE We've got a - 
MARGE There's the car!  There's the car! 
We are slowing as we approach a short driveway leading down to a cabin.  Parked in front is the brown Cutlass Ciera. 
VOICE Whose car? 
MARGE My car!  My car!  Tan Ciera! 
VOICE Don't go in!  Wait for back-up! 
Marge is straining to look.  The power-tool noise is louder here but still muffled, its source not yet visible. 
VOICE ...  Chief Gunderson? 
MARGE Copy.  Yah, send me back-up! 
VOICE Yes, ma'am.  Are we the closest PD? 
MARGE Yah, Menominie only has Chief Perpich and he takes February off to go to Boundary Waters. 
ROAD EXTERIOR 
Marge pulls her prowler over some distance past the cabin. She gets out, zips up her khaki parka and pulls up its fur- lined hood. 
For a moment, she stands listening to the muffled roar of the power tool.  Then, with one curved arm half pressing against, half supporting her belly, she takes slow, gingerly steps down the slope, through the deep snow, through the trees angling toward the cabin and the source of the grinding noise. 
She slogs from tree to tree, letting each one support her downhill-leaning weight for a moment before slogging to the next. 
The roar grows louder.  Marge stands panting by one tree, her breath vaporizing out of her snorkel hood.  She squints down toward the cabin's back lot. 
A tall man with his back to us, wearing a red plaid quilted jacket and a hunting cap with earflaps, is laboring over a large power tool which his body blocks from view. 
Marge advances. 
The man is forcing downward something which engages the roaring power tool and makes harsh spluttering noises. 
The man is Grimsrud, his nose red and eyes watering from the cold, hatflaps pulled down over his ears.  His breath steams as he sourly goes about his work, both hands pressing down a shod foot, as it if were the shaft of a butter churn. 
The roar is very loud. 
MARGE ...  So that was Mrs. Lundegaard in there? 
She glances up in the rear-view mirror. 
Grimsrud, cheeks sunk, eyes hollow, looks sourly out at the road. 
Marge shakes her head. 
At length: 
MARGE ...  I guess that was your accomplice in the wood chipper. 
Grimsrud's head bobs with bumps on the road; otherwise he is motionless, reactionless, scowling and gazing out. 
MARGE ...  And those three people in Brainerd. 
No response. 
Marge, gazing forward, seems to be talking to herself. 
MARGE ...  And for what?  For a little bit of money. 
We hear distant sirens. 
MARGE ...  There's more to life than money, you know. 
She glances up in the rear-view mirror. 
MARGE ...  Don't you know that?...  And here ya are, and it's a beautiful day... 
Grimsrud's hollow eyes stare out. 
The sirens are getting louder.  Marge pulls over. 
MARGE ...  Well... 
She leans forward to the dash to give two short signalling WHOOPS on her siren. 
She turns on her flashers. 
She leans back with a creak and jangle of utilities. 
She stares forward, shakes her head.  We hear the dull click of her flashers. 
MARGE ...  I just don't unnerstand it. 
Outside it is snowing.  The sky, the earth, the road - all white. 
A squad car, gumballs spinning, punches through the white. It approaches in slow motion. 
An ambulance punches through after it. 
Another squad car. 
FADE OUT: 
FADE IN: 
HIGH AND WIDE ON A SHABBY MOTEL 
It stands next to a highway on a snowy, windslept plain. One or two cars dot the parking lot along with an idling police cruiser. 
MOTEL ROOM DOORWAY 
We are looking over the shoulders of two uniformed policemen who stand on either side of the door, their hands resting lightly on their holstered sidearms.  One of them raps at the door. 
COP ONE Mr. Anderson... 
A title fades in:  OUTSIDE OF BISMARK, NORTH DAKOTA 
After a pause, muffled through the door: 
VOICE ...  Who?... 
COP ONE Mr. Anderson, is this your burgundy 88 out here? 
VOICE ...  Just a sec. 
COP ONE Could you open the door, please? 
