BETTY Yes, tonight. 
TED I can't. 
BETTY Yes, you can. 
TED No, I can't. I never worked the night shift before. 
BETTY Oh night shift -- smight shift. 
TED We were supposed to work it together. 
BETTY I know, but I can't. 
TED Why not? 
BETTY I'm having a New Year's Eve party. 
TED Since when? 
BETTY Actually, I'm not having it. My roommate is. And there's this guy. German guy. He's gonna be there. And so am I. 
TED I can't run this place by myself. 
BETTY Oh, sure ya can. 
TED No, I can't. 
BETTY Sam ran this place by himself for fifty years. 
TED Yeah, and he had fifty years of fuckin' practice, too. I haven't had a day. 
BETTY Look, Teddy, calm down -- 
TED -- Don't call me Teddy. 
BETTY Ted, the night's cake. It's easy. The day's when it's busy. During the night there's nothing to do. 
TED It's New Year's Eve. 
BETTY Which'll make it less busy than normal. Ever worked on Christmas? Unless you sell turkeys, business is dead. You just got butterflies, that's all. 
TED What I have ain't butterflies. I can't handle this hotel all by myself. 
Betty slows the scene down. 
BETTY Okay, let's calm down a minute. Slow it down, cool it off. Let's just talk. 
TED You can say any goddamn thing you want -- 
BETTY -- Ted? I thought we were calming down? I thought we were cooling off? No hostility. Say good-bye to hostility. We're just talking. 
TED Okay... okay... okay... I'm calm, I'm cool, let's talk. 
BETTY Ted, in a nutshell, all you have to do is hold the fort. It's New Year's Eve. Most of the guests are going out. You'll just be giving them a little nod as they come staggering in at three... four... five... in the morning. Nobody's having any parties, a few get-togethers, but no parties. You got about three people checking in tonight, that's it. The only variable is Chester Rush in the penthouse. 
TED Chester Rush? The guy from The Wacky Detective? 
BETTY Yeah, him and his entourage checked in last night. They're in the penthouse. The only reason I refer to it as a variable is that he's a movie star. Ya never know about movie stars. I'm tellin' ya, Ted, it's cake. 
Betty takes a piece of paper and writes her number down. 
BETTY (continuing) And look, if you have any problems, call me at the party. 
Ted thinks about it for a moment. 
TED Okay. 
BETTY Great -- 
TED -- For fifty bucks. 
BETTY Fifty bucks! 
TED You're shirking your duties for this Nazi. For that you pay a price, and the price is fifty bucks. 
BETTY One, Horst is not a Nazi. Two, that's not a fair price. You're taking advantage of the situation. Twenty bucks. Now, twenty bucks is a fair price. 
TED Yeah, but what you're doin' to me ain't fair. And, you are completely and totally taking advantage of me and your position. So fifty bucks is the perfect price. 
Betty begrudgingly digs in her purse. 
ELSPETH Your nose. 
And saying this, she kisses Kiva's nose and leaves the room. Kiva is quieted now. As Elspeth closes the bedroom door, she has the last word. 
ELSPETH And I saw you checking her out. 
Kiva slinks back on the bed, put in her place -- for now. 
IN THE HALLWAY/EXT. ELEVATOR--DUSK 
The doors open and Ted pushes a cart of expensive designer luggage -- and lots of it -- behind yet another Gorgeous Gal. This one is Jezebel, a Southern beauty, fawning over her cat, as she carries nothing else, and proceeds down the hall like a Southern princess. 
JEZEBEL (talking to her cat in baby talk) Oh you little stinker... oh you sweet little muffin. Yes... Mama loves the baby. 
AT THE DOOR 
Jezebel bursts in, chattering. 
JEZEBEL Well, this is just darlin'! Just darlin' Hi-dee, girls... 
Ted carries all her bags inside awkwardly. Again, the place has become all the more transformed with wild canopies of exotic cloths and fixings. Elspeth and Athena are hard at work on a strange nature sculpture as Jezebel enters. She stands inside the powdered circle and before the hot tub, which now has dark blue water swirling inside. She presents her cat -- upward toward heaven -- frees the cat, bares her breasts and sucks in the vibes: "Ahhhh." 
Ted settles the bags down, hoping for a peek at her charms, but her back is to him. The kitty rubs on her leg. She picks it up and presses it against her bare breasts, petting it sweetly. She winks and hands him a tip. 
JEZEBEL Toodle-loo. 
And saying this, she shoos him away. Through the glass doors to the bedroom, she sees Kiva sprawled on the bed, writing on herself. 
JEZEBEL Well -- I see Elspeth has herself a new lil' fool -- what the hell is she doin' here on our night of annual ritual? 
ATHENA (wearily) I have sanctioned her presence, as long as she behaves. Come on -- there is more work to be done to welcome our great Diana. 
KIVA I WANT ROOM SERVICE!! 
ELSPETH Why do I always attract girls who are looking for a babysitter? 
JEZEBEL Well now, honey, maybe Juvenile Hall ain't the best place to find serious relationship material. 
Elspeth seethes at her. Jezebel acts blithely innocent. 
IN THE HALLWAY 
Ted is walking from the room with the cart. His face is etched in a mask of perpetual frown as he looks at the tip in his hand -- at least these lunachicks tip well. 
Waking him out of his deep mood is Raven. Another female intoxication, she wears a short skirt, all done up in Native American, Southwestern themes. No shoes. 
But she carries a small, old handmade broom. She moves down the hall, blissed-out. Ted makes eye contact, despite himself. 
RAVEN I'm looking for the room for making love. 
TED You might be referring to the Honeymoon Suite. Straight thata way... you can't miss it -- see all that furniture in the hallway -- 
RAVEN Oh I know the way. I just wanted you to know that I knew where I was going and that you needn't bother yourself with me. The others are here -- great! 
TED (wearily) Oh yeah -- it's so great -- it's fantastic. 
RAVEN (in deep empathy) Ohhh... I know it all seems very strange but you're coping with us much better than the bellboys of past New Year's. 
TED Past New Year's? 
RAVEN Oh yes -- we've been coming here every New Year... for a long time. Thanks for your patience. 
TED Oh hey -- no problem -- wreck the place. Bring in cats. Ruin the carpet with flea powder, pour paint in the Jacuzzi. Throw the furniture out the... where're your bags? 
RAVEN I travel very light. 
Ted looks down at the broom at her side, her bare feets, her thick dark hair. It keeps getting weirder. She wanders off. 
INT. FRONT DESK--NIGHT 
The last of the lovely girls arrives. She is different from the others. She looks like a farm girl, very Earth Mother, with a tablecloth halter top and skirt, sandals, and a simple scarf over her long dark curls. She carries two bags by herself and holds a small black pot under her arm. She is Eva. 
TED (already weary of these girls) Yeah, yeah, Honeymoon Suite. 
EVA Oh... yes... I'm late. 
She lowers her eyes, worried. 
TED All right -- lemme give ya a hand. 
EVA Oh... no, that's all right. I can carry them by myself. 
Jezebel folds her arms and clears her throat in the direction of Kiva, sitting idly on the edge of the blue water Jacuzzi, with her feet dipping irreverently in the water. 
ELSPETH Kiva... 
KIVA What? 
ELSPETH You have to go in the next room now. 
KIVA Oh, wow, like I'm bummed out that I can't watch. (whining at Elspeth) I'm bored! 
ELSPETH UP! 
She climbs up the stairs, trying to pull the brat to her feet. 
KIVA Don't put me in there by myself. I'll miss you way too much. 
ELSPETH Kiva, don't do this to me. 
Kiva sees a bit of weakening here; she takes her feet out of the Jacuzzi. She begins to speak softly. 
KIVA Please... if you just lemme... I'll play dress-up with you, the way you like it... you know what I mean... remember...? 
Elspeth begins to weaken. But continues to pull the brat up. Kiva pours on softer seduction. 
KIVA We can pretend and I'll do it exactly... the way you want it... with the egg whites and the kilt. 
Elspeth is now fully seduced. Kiva takes Elspeth's hand and presses it lightly on her face. 
ELSPETH You mean... like last week? 
Kiva nods. Elspeth is enthralled, but from a disgusted "ick" sound from Jezebel, Elspeth realizes she's revealing this side of her life -- in front of her coven. She nervously looks around and see all the coven looking at her: a disgusted Jezebel, an understanding Raven, a preoccupied Eva and an impatient and stern Athena. 
Elspeth comes to her senses, straightens her posture. 
ELSPETH We'll talk about this later, Kiva. 
KIVA (angrily) No! 
She turns on Elspeth and bites her hand. Elspeth pulls her arm away and grabs Kiva by the hair. 
JEZEBEL Aw, really now -- child abuse? 
ELSPETH You stay outta this! 
ATHENA I demand this stop now, Elspeth! 
Elspeth lets go of Kiva's hair. Kiva jerks away from her. 
KIVA I'm running away from you! 
ELSPETH Fine. Go ahead. And I'll call your parole officer and she'll find you and send you back to Eastlake! 
Kiva stomps off into the bedroom. 
ATHENA Now that the fucking melodrama is over, can we start the goddamn ritual -- pleeze? 
Elspeth enters the powered circle. Each girl takes off her shoes. They anoint themselves with oils. 
ATHENA We are communing here on New Year's Eve to bring to life the great goddess Diana, who was turned to stone in this very room forty years ago today. 
The girls moan in sleepy, eerie agreement as they begin to sway within the circle. 
ATHENA Diana, great beautiful one, we make these offerings to you, that we may undo the wicked spell which deprived you of the seed of your lover, your virginal blood, of your very life. We now form the symbolic rock with our bodies. 
And saying this, the girls all form a "rock" with their bodies gracefully draped one upon the other. Music begins, and slowly they start to unfold from the rock. 
The girls each find their place in a semicircle around the Jacuzzi. Some bare their breasts, other strip off a layer of clothes. They anoint their arms with water from the Jacuzzi. 
They begin a lovely dance, snaking their way around the semicircle. The first one to go from one end to the other is Athena. She then proceeds up the stairs and positions herself between the altar and the Jacuzzi. She steps forth with a bottle to the altar and pours it into the Jacuzzi. 
ATHENA On this night, in this hour, we Call upon the Ancient Power O Goddess bride, I offer thee Milk from a mother's sweet titty! 
Each of the girls moans eerily. Athena places the bottle on the altar and bows away. She joins the circle as Elspeth now steps forward with her offering in a vial. 
ELSPETH To reverse the evil which has been done I make this offering to the Divine One A whore not, an innocent was, For whom I seized a virgin's blood. 
JEZEBEL Goddess of Light, Goddess of Lust, To undo this awful spell is a real must. To bring you life and get you high I offer the sweat of five men's thighs. 
The girls moan loudly as they sway. Jezebel places her offering in the hot tub and bows out, returning to the circle. Now Raven comes forth with a small leather canteen. She unscrews the lid as she offers in her opiate stupor. 
RAVEN Diana, oh great one, we live without sun Until this wicked curse is undone. In hope that you live, and to us appear, I have collected a year's worth of tears. 
He postures proudly, all puffed out. Eva looks at him helplessly. And he paternally encourages her to explain. 
EVA Well... okay. The five of us -- Elspeth, Jezebel, Athena, Raven and me -- are a coven. 
TED Ha, like a coven of witches? 
EVA Yes. 
TED (stunned) Oh. 
He looks around the room: QUICK CUTS of candles, iconography, jars of lurid substances, unknown body parts of animals woven into the nature sculpture... and are those tongues in that can? Ted's getting the creeps, but again puffs himself up. 
TED I knew that! 
EVA (getting calmer) And you see, our coven has spent forty years trying to perfect a ritual to undo a wicked curse put on our goddess Diana. 
TED Gee, you don't look a day over twenty! 
EVA Oh... ha ha... I mean the witches before us tried and failed. But Athena, our High Priestess, discovered a great potion to reverse the evil spell which turned our beautiful goddess into an old rock. 
TED (looking at the rock) Yeah? Is... is that her? 
Eva nods, looking lovingly at the stone. 
EVA She was a beautiful virgin. An entertainer by trade, but a great sorceress by design. It was here in this very room, on her wedding night, a jealous rival placed the curse on Diana. 
TED She turned to -- that -- here? 
EVA Yes... and her young husband turned into a pink fish! They found him swimming in the pool in circles. While our dear goddess: a stone in her honeymoon bed. 
Ted frowns as he ponders all this. Eva takes a photo from the altar and hands it to Ted. 
EVA This was Diana. 
CLOSE ON photo: a Blond Bombshell in full-on Betty Page attire, a bare-tittied pinup girl, playfully spanking a girl in bondage with a spiked high heel. 
TED This girl here? This is the goddess Diana? 
The photograph slowly comes alive. Diana stops spanking the girl and unties her. 
She pulls the girl (in the black satin mask) up off her lap and makes the girl stand. The women face each other and break into a cheek-to-cheek tango. 
CLOSE ON Ted as he shakes his head. Are his eyes playing tricks on him? 
TED I hate to tell you this, but I kinda doubt she was a virgin. 
EVA Oh, but she was! She had lovers, but she saved that for marriage. Which is the example I've tried to follow: to do everything but that till I marry... 
She begins to sob again. Ted comforts her. 
TED Hey, don't cry... a virgin is a rare and beautiful thing. If you say she was a virgin, I'll believe it. 
EVA Well, it doesn't matter now... and she won't be resurrected tonight 'cause I failed her. I let my whole coven down! 
TED Wait a sec -- that rock was gonna turn back into this? 
He holds up the photo. Eva nods. 
TED Now, that would be something worth seeing! 
EVA Only, not now -- we were each supposed to bring something -- a life fluid. 
TED (wincing in disgust) If this is gonna be like one of those afterbirth conversations, I don't think I wanna hear this. 
EVA Only... I swallowed it... 
TED You swallowed what? 
Eva looks off. Ted searches his brains, thoroughly sickened now. 
TED You mean, you were supposed to bring... like... like a guy's... and you...? 
She nods; he winces, queasy. Eva looks at him, helpless. 
EVA And now, you're my last chance! 
TED (laughing) Yeah, sure. (then -- panic) Whoa, what? You want my -- for the -- witchy poo -- ahh no -- no way -- nope. Besides, it's against hotel policy. I was warned: "No sex with the clientele"! 
Eva sobs, pleading. She throws off her shawl, baring her lovely breasts, and reaches her arms around his neck. He keeps backing off. Unbeknownst to him, he is already doing a ritualistic shuffle. 
TED Ha, c'mon now, joke's over. (seeing this is no joke) Hey, we're gonna step in the flea powder. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
HOURS LATER 
Athena reads from a huge leatherbound book, The Book of Shadows, full of potions and spells. Four discouraged witches pack their bags. The room has been restored to its worldly under-splendor. Kiva uses the remote on the TV... so much for witchcraft. The slab of rock remains a slab. 
ATHENA I don't understand what went wrong. 
ELSPETH I say Eva pulled one over on us. 
EVA What? 
JEZEBEL Honey -- Eva was wearing the face of someone just fucked good... and the best actress in this world, or any other, can't fake a thing like that! 
ELSPETH Exactly -- if she was fucked so good, how could she save his come? 
RAVEN It could be done... 
ATHENA Girls, knock it off. (she looks up from the book) Maybe... maybe it needed to be the sperm of a virgin male. 
EVA (dreamily) He was no virgin! 
The witches sadly collect their things. Athena, deep in thought, strokes the slab. 
ATHENA Let's leave her here, with the sword, until dawn. I will come back for her before checkout time. I just... feel too sad to carry her away before the sun comes up to warm her. 
They all agree. They pick up their bags and head out. 
JEZEBEL (cuddling her cat) I can't believe we have to carry our own bags out! My mama would have a hissy fit! 
KIVA (flirtatiously) I'll carry your bags. 
ELSPETH (firmly) You're carrying my bags! 
They leave the room. Jezebel's cat leaps from her arms as she hoists her luggage. Eva walks out satisfied, thought perhaps a little sore -- "ouch," she says, and smiles. Athena takes one last look at their goddess slab. 
ATHENA Next year, we try again -- with virgin sperm. 
She closes the door on the Honeymoon Suite (till next New Year's Eve!). 
FADE TO BLACK. 
FOUR ROOMS 
FADE UP ON: 
INT. MON SIGNOR LOBBY--NIGHT 
Ted behind the desk, on the phone. We only hear his side. 
TED Oh, Jesus, what did I tell you? Do you want milk and cookies, or do you not? (pause) I can't turn on an adult station without permission from your parents. (pause, he checks his computer) That's not what the machine tells me. (pause) You be good and you'll get milk and cookies, but for now leave me alone, please. I'll be up later to put you both to sleep. 
He hangs up. 
TED (to himself) Goddamn kids. 
SUPER: 1:00 a.m. 
The phone rings again. 
TED Room Service. 
INT. ROOM 404--NIGHT 
A small party is going on. A long-haired Yuppie Scum type in on the line. Music BLARES. People dance in background. 
YUPPIE SCUM What room am I in? 
INT. FRONT DESK--NIGHT 
BACK AND FORTH 
TED This is the front desk, sir. 
The Yuppie turns away from the phone and speaks to Real Theodore. 
YUPPIE SCUM What room are we in? 
REAL THEODORE How should I know? I just got here. 
YUPPIE SCUM (into phone) You know, don't you have one of those light things? 
TED And make me an accessory in the murder of your husband? 
Ted collapses to his knees in front of Angela. 
TED That's not fair. It just isn't fair. 
ANGELA Get a fucking grip on yourself. First off, who says he's my husband? And second, we are a long way from fair here, fair is back in jolly old England eatin' crumpets and sipping on tea. 
Ted collects himself. 
TED Tut. Tut. Tut. Not so fast. Well, maybe there are two sides to this thing. 
ANGELA There are two sides to a plate, still you only eat off of one. Now GET THE GUN! 
TED So why's he got you tied up? 
ANGELA I'm a werewolf, Ted! Get the gun! 
Ted is at a loss as to what to do. Angela turns on the charm. 
ANGELA Come on, Ted. Come over here just for a minute. You can do it. Come on, Ted. You look like a good guy. 
Ted creeps towards her. 
ANGELA That's it, Teddy. You look so much more attractive when you're self- assured. 
Sigfried suddenly comes to life... He's heard from the bathroom belting out "Life is but a dream... she-boom, she- boom." 
ANGELA (she panics) Quick, he's coming back. Put the gag back in, and remember the gun! 
Ted hurries to replace the sock in her mouth. 
TED Nine thousand, three hundred and twenty-two times, to the best of my estimation. 
INT. ROOM 
Sigfried coughs, sending a chill up Ted's spine. Ted whips around to discover Sigfried leaning up against the door to the bathroom. 
SIGFRIED I was just beginning to think I could trust you, Theodore. Silly me. 
Ted's fingers are frozen over Angela's lips. 
TED I was just trying to help her breathe a little. 
SIGFRIED Don't let me stop you, Teddy. You don't mind me calling you Teddy, do you? 
TED That's fine. 
SIGFRIED I used to have a little bunny rabbit named Teddy, it looked real cute nibbling on Angela's ear. Only problem here is you're no bunny rabbit, Theodore, and it really fuckin' razzes me to picture you doin' it. But don't let me stop you, Teddy... no need to play sneaky-poo. 
Ted starts to back toward the door. 
TED Look, man, if this is some kind of Voodoo thing and you want me to have sex with your wife, there is absolutely no way. 
SIGFRIED (shouts at the top of his lungs) I said, nibble, asshole! Now! 
The directness of Sigfried's command, coupled with the SOUND of a trigger being cocked, forces Ted to approach Angela. Angela is a stunning beauty, and Ted being kind of a shy guy makes for an awkward situation. Ted leans forward. As he closes in, Angela's eyes close. 
TED (whispers) Sorry, lady. 
Ted pulls up short of actually nibbling on Angela. 
SIGFRIED What's the matter, no whiz left in the cheese? I'm not cramping your style, am I? 
TED Look, I'm not playing this game anymore. 
Sigfried yanks Ted backwards. He wraps his arms around him. 
SIGFRIED It's almost all over, Theodore, and soon you can go home to Mommy. 
Ted struggles to free himself from Sigfried's powerful bear hug and blasts out the following monologue. 
TED My name is not Theodore, it's TED, TED, TED, T... E... D... TED... NOT TEDDY, NOT THEODORE... TED... Yes, my mother did me the service of naming me Theodore and I haven't a clue as to how you know that because everyone who knows that lives a long way away from here. Do you have any idea what it's like to go to school where all the other kids' parents are in jail doing time for crimes like grand larceny, aggravated assault, burglary and murder, and you get stuck with a mother who names you Theodore and dressed you up in little matching pink outfits with, get this, a little blue bow fucking tie! Well, I'll tell you what happens. Pretty soon Theodore becomes "Theo the Thumper," and when Theo the Thumper gets old enough, he packs his bags and goes thousands of miles away where he can put the whole bloody mess behind him. So, if you don't mind, shoot me now, because no one is going to call me that again. My name is Ted, okay? Got it? TED! 
Sigfried has followed the entire tirade in stunned silence. He takes a step toward Ted and offers him his hand. 
SIGFRIED Sigfried. 
TED What? 
SIGFRIED My name is Sigfried. 
ANGELA Where's the fucking nitro? 
TED I couldn't find it! 
ANGELA You took long enough. Untie me, for Christ's sake, you fucking upset him and he's dying. 
Ted struggles to untie Angela. 
TED I thought you wanted to kill him. 
ANGELA You'd make a great cop, Theodore. 
The knots are all over the place and a real bitch to untie. 
TED I can't handle this alone, I'd better get help. 
Ted turns on a dime and runs smack into Sigfried, who's been taking in the whole conversation. 
SIGFRIED I tie a pretty good knot, don't I, Ted? 
TED Thank God you're okay... 
SIGFRIED Never felt better. 
Angela hears Sigfried's voice from behind her back. 
ANGELA You bastard! 
SIGFRIED (to Angela) Come on, honey, don't get mad. It was just a little test, and I'm glad I did it because now I'll know forever that you really do love me. Truly and deeply. 
ANGELA If the simple fact that I didn't want your bloated, dead body lying out on the floor is love, then no wonder we find ourselves as we are at this very fucking moment. 
SIGFRIED Oh, no. I heard you and there was genuine care in that voice. Can't be denied. Can it, Ted? 
TED I think you're right and, if you just keep this kind of open dialogue going, you'll go a long way to resolving this misunderstanding. 
Ted edges his way toward the door. 
TED (continuing) You'd be surprised what happens when people just listen to each other without succumbing to all that pain and anger. 
ANGELA You heard shit, monkey boy. Easy for you to say after you fuck another man's wife. You should at least have the guts to stand by your convictions. 
Sigfried turns an icy eye on Ted, who has given up all hope of ever getting out of the room. 
TED That's a lie, Sigfried. I swear to God. 
Angela continues her tirade. 
ANGELA When I think of all the times you were inside me promising me a better life, it makes me want to puke. 
Sigfried slowly raises his gun, pointing it directly at Ted's chest. 
TED Why are you doing this? What have I ever done to you people? 
ANGELA What didn't you do, stick man? Unfortunately, you don't have the balls to back up the actions of your huge cock. 
The words hit Sigfried like bullets to the chest... his legs weaken. 
SIGFRIED (whimpering) He's got a huge cock? 
TED She's lying again, mister. It's not that big. 
SIGFRIED Show it to me. 
TED Come on, man, she's lying. Can't you see she's fucking with you? 
ANGELA Put it this way, God made up for what he did to Gumby with Ted here. 
SIGFRIED Show it to me. 
ANGELA Show him your cock, Theodore. 
Sigfried runs over to Angela and kneels in front of her. 
SIGFRIED Stop talking about his cock, will you?! 
ANGELA It's hard to stop talking about something so huge. I could go on and on about his cock, bone, nob, bishop, wang, thang, hotrod. Hump mobile, Oscar, dong, dagger, banana, cucumber, salami. Sausage, kielbasa, schlong, dink, tool, Big Ben, Mister Happy, prick, disk, pecker, peter, pee-pee, wee-wee, weiner, pisser, pistol, joint, hose, horn, middle-leg, third- leg, meat, stick, joystick, dipstick. 
Angela is on a roll. She fires the words at Sigfried, hitting him pointblank. He staggers. He pleads with her to stop, covering his ears. Ted watches the man crumble. 
ANGELA (continuing) Junior, the little head, little guy, Rumple Foreskin, Tootsie Roll. Snake, one-eyed monster, one-eyed wonder, shaft, sword, meat whistle, skin flute, love muscle, Roto-Rooter, instrument, banger, rammer, ramrod, cherrypicker, log, pole. 
TED You people gonna be okay? 
Angela sits next to Sigfried and gently strokes his back. 
ANGELA We're fine, Ted. 
Ted points to a tray with half-eaten food on it. 
TED Would you like me to...? 
ANGELA Another time, Ted. 
Ted slowly walks toward the door and takes one last look at the strange couple at rest in the corner of the room before closing the door behind him. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HALLWAY--MOMENTS LATER 
Ted walks down the hallway, lost in thought. An energetic Young Guy with a bouquet of flowers plows into him. 
YOUNG GUY Happy New Year, buddy. 
TED Happy New Year. 
YOUNG GUY I was just in room 404, what a party! You know where room 409 is at? 
TED Beats me. It's somewhere around here. 
The guy takes off in the direction Ted's walking from. Ted suddenly realizes who this guy is and whips around, shouting to the Young Guy. 
TED (continuing) Hey, what's your name? 
The door SLAMS on room 409. 
FADE OUT 
FADE TO BLACK 
STORY TITLE CARD: 
ROOM 716 "THE MISBEHAVERS" 
FADE UP 
THE FRONT DESK 
SUPER: 10:30 p.m. 
Ted is relaxing at the front desk. He breathes slowly. He finally has one moment's peace after an already long night. He even has a chance to straighten his tie. 
The phone RINGS. 
TED Front desk. 
CUT TO: 
ROOM 716 
CLOSE-UP of a cigarette hanging out of a Man's mouth as he speaks into the telephone. 
MAN Bottle of Moet et Chandon. Fast. 
Man hangs up the phone and stubs out his cigarette into an already overstuffed ashtray by the bed. Man turns around to face the camera. He is a dark and handsome Latin male in his mid-30s. Dangerous. Impatient. 
He walks toward the camera as he continues straightening his tie. 
He stops at the door of the bathroom and watches his Wife and two kids get ready for the party. Wife seems to be a beautiful woman in her mid-30s. The children are Sarah, nine, and Juancho, six. 
Man strikes up another cigarette and finishes his tie. 
He watches his Wife comb Juancho's hair down and to the side like an idiot. 
Not being able to stand it anymore, Man tears Juancho away from his Wife and snatches the comb. 
MAN Give me that... 
Man begins to slick Juancho's hair back. 
MAN There... see? You look cool with your hair up like this. Like me... 
Juancho is smiling now. He's happy he's going to look like his dad. 
MAN Okay? 
He blows one kiss. One for both of them. 
As Man and his Wife walk out the door, Man turns back to the children... 
MAN Don't misbehave. 
He closes the door. 
Sarah stands in the middle of the room. She's looking at the door Man and Wife just disappeared through. Stunned. 
Her dress looks frilly and beautifully uncomfortable. She touches the edges of the fabric. 
SARAH Why did we have to get all dressed up if we weren't going with them? 
CUT TO: 
INT. HALLWAY 
Man and Wife are walking down the hall. 
Man stops in his tracks. Wife stops too and looks at Man. They wait. 
CUT TO: 
ROOM 716 
Juancho shuts off the television. He drops the remote to the floor. His attention is on the fireworks outside. He leaps to the window and begins unlatching it. 
SARAH What are you doing? 
JUANCHO Escaping. Stinks in here, anyway. 
Man bursts through the door of the hotel room and stands in the doorway, glaring at the mischievous Juancho. 
Juancho bangs his head on the window trying to get back inside. He leaps to the floor and tries to turn on the TV with the remote. 
MAN (stern) What did I say? 
Juancho turns to Man as if he'd been sitting there watching television the whole time. 
MAN Behave. 
JUANCHO Yes, Papa. 
Ted appears at the door with Man's champagne. 
TED The champagne you ordered, sir. 
MAN No time for this. Leave it on ice. 
Ted proceeds to place the champagne in the room. 
WIFE But I want some now... 
Ted is torn. Man pushes him into the room. 
MAN There'll be plenty for you and the party, baby, you can bomb yourself all you want at the party. 
WIFE What a waste. 
Ted places the bucket near the bed. After setting up the bottle, he turns to leave, but now Man closes the door, trapping Ted inside with them. 
MAN (to Ted) Hey. 
Ted looks around, bewildered. Now what? 
Man is reaching into his coat pocket. 
MAN You want five hundred bucks? 
TED Sure! 
Man hesitates a moment, then pulls out his wallet. That was too easy. 
MAN How about three? 
TED Three hundred? 
MAN Yeah. 
MAN (to the children) His name is Ted. If you need anything, dial 0 and ask for Ted. 
Sarah catches the name tag and reads the name on it: "TED -- BELLHOP." 
Sarah looks up at Ted. She clips the pin to her dress and smiles shyly at him. 
Man puts the money in Ted's pocket and then grabs his ear, pulling him close. 
MAN (deadly whisper) If something happens to my children, I wouldn't want to be you. 
WIFE Make sure they're in bed before midnight. 
TED (thinking) Before midnight? Then should I wake them up for the countdown to the New Year? 
Wife looks disgusted. 
WIFE No... 
As Man and Wife exit, he turns to the kids and says: 
MAN Don't misbehave. 
Man closes the door. 
INT. HALLWAY 
Man and Wife book it down the hall before Ted can change his mind. 
ROOM 716 
Ted is standing facing the door the Man and Wife just disappeared through. He turns around slowly to face the children. 
His eyes are wide. His face is quiet. Stern. 
The children are staring at him. 
TED Okay. These are the rules. Don't break the rules and I won't break your necks. 
The kids look at each other. 
TED (smiling) I always wanted to say that. Someone said that to me when I was a kid. 
Sarah laughs at his joke. 
TED Except they were joking. I'm not. 
Ted goes to the door. 
TED The rules are simple. Don't do anything you wouldn't do if your parents were here. If there's an emergency, call me on the phone, like your dad said. 
SARAH That's not what he said. 
Ted's surprised by a challenge this early in the game. 
SARAH He said to call if we need anything. 
TED Well, I've got a lot of work to do and I can't have you calling me every time you want a drink of water, so please limit your calls to emergencies only. 
SARAH We paid you five hundred dollars. We'll call you if we need anything. You don't want to upset my dad. 
TED Okay. Please. Try to call only when necessary. Watch TV, and if you're good, I'll bring up some milk and cookies. Bye. 
Ted leaves. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HALLWAY 
Ted walks briskly down the hall, counting his money the whole way. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ROOM 
Juancho takes off his socks and shoes and throws them onto the floor. Sarah looks at the discarded shoes and socks. 
CLOSE ON the shoes and socks. 
Sarah looks over at Juancho's bare feet. Her nose twitches. 
SARAH Your feet stink. 
Sarah tries to ignore him as he stalks the room. It's only a matter of time before he finds mischief. 
Juancho sees the champagne bucket and Bingo!, he goes for the bottle. 
JUANCHO (holding up the bottle) Hey, get a bottle opener! 
Sarah opens her mouth, as if about to tell him to leave the champagne alone. She stops herself when she realizes she wants some champagne too. 
She quickly scrambles about for a bottle opener while Juancho unwraps the bottle top. 
Sarah opens the dresser drawer with such force that a few hidden contents long forgotten in the back of the drawer slide forward. 
Some coins, a paperclip, and a hypodermic needle. She looks down at the needle that lays beside the Gideon Bible and casually picks the phone back up and punches 0. The phone rings. 
FRONT DESK 
Ted, bucket of ice in his hand, gets ready to go to room 404. As he crosses the desk, the phone rings. He looks at the board and see room 716's light blinking. 
He sighs in exasperation. 
INT. ROOM 
Sarah sees Juancho shaking the champagne bottle violently. 
SARAH Don't shake it! (into phone) Ted? Hi. It's me. Sarah. 
TED Yeah. Who died? No one? Then don't call me. 
SARAH I thought I'd tell you that your cleaning ladies are doing a bum job. There's all kinds of leftover stuff around here. 
Sarah picks up the needle and rolls it over in her hand several times. 
SARAH Needles and things. We're not supposed to have needles here, are we? I mean, they don't come with the room, do they? Send someone up here to clean this place up right. 
The champagne bottle explodes all over Juancho. He looks surprised. 
SARAH (to Juancho) I TOLD YOU NOT TO SHAKE IT! (to Ted) I gotta go. My brother just exploded the champagne all over the room. Oh, and bring us a couple of toothbrushes. There's a card in the bathroom that says you'll bring free toothbrushes if we ask for them. 
She hangs up. 
A frustrated Ted hangs up the phone. He walks briskly to the elevator. 
Sarah and Juancho are pouring themselves champagne. They turn up the television and drink. Juancho shudders at the taste, but tries to drink as much as Sarah. 
Sarah clearly doesn't like it, but tries to pretend she does. 
Sarah picks up an instruction card near the phone to see how to make room-to-room calls. 
SARAH I'm calling another room, give me three numbers. 
JUANCHO 
Sarah punches in the room number. The phone rings. 
She holds the needle up to the light to examine it. 
SARAH Hello? Hi. You don't know me, and I don't know you, but... do you have any needles? We've got needles here and I was wondering if they come with the room or not. Don't have any? Thanks. Just checking. 
She hangs up. 
Juancho puts down his champagne glass and searches his father's coat pocket. He finds a pack of cigarettes and takes one out. He puts it in his mouth and pretends to smoke. 
Sarah checks out the hypodermic needle carefully. She has an idea. 
MONTAGE: 
In the bathroom, Sarah seeks out her mother's lipstick. 
ROOM 716 
Sarah stands atop the chest of drawers and uses the lipstick to draw a bull's-eye on one of the hotel art paintings. She writes numbers next to each circle representing points. 
Juancho is standing at the foot of the bed, cigarette hanging out of his mouth, as he practices his dart-throwing technique. 
SARAH (pointing out the rules) The center is the bull's eye, 100 points, this one's 10 points, this one's 20 points. 
WHACK! The needle lands an inch from her face in the 20-point slot. 
SARAH Hey, wait a minute. Let me get out of the way! 
Sarah, a little tipsy now, grabs the needle and staggers to the bed. She hears the key in the doorway and throws the needle into the curtain to hide it. 
TED Yes... I did. 
The children are quiet. 
TED And now look at me. 
CHILDREN (in unison) We can't. 
TED Good. You'll do just fine. Sleep well and I won't tell your parents about the champagne. 
Ted leaves. 
CUT TO: 
AFTER A MOMENT OF DARKNESS 
After a moment of darkness, the night is disturbed by the loud crashing of fireworks outside the window. 
Sarah sits up, eyes closed. Her face feels the warmth coming from the window and she tilts her head toward it. 
The light of the fireworks dances its reflections off her face. 
She inhales deeply... then makes a sour face. She goes for the bathroom, arms outstretched like a blind girl. She gets to the bathroom, turns on the light, and searches for the sink. 
She begins to wash the ointment off her eyes very carefully. She dries her eyes thoroughly and opens them... checks them in the mirror. A little red, but otherwise fine. 
She goes back into the bedroom, turns on the television and grabs the new champagne bottle. She shakes it violently. 
Juancho wakes. He turns his head to her. His eyes are still closed. 
JUANCHO Are you watching TV? 
The champagne bottle explodes. She pours herself a glass. 
SARAH Yep. If you wanna watch too, you have to go wash your face. 
Juancho gets up smiling and tries to run to the bathroom. He slams into the wall, hard. 
SARAH Be careful... 
Juancho walks into the bathroom a little slower, more cautious. 
Sarah pours herself another glass. She downs the glass and shudders. 
She smells the bad smell again. Only now she really smells it. 
She smells her feet. Nothing. She smells the champagne. Nothing. 
Juancho enters the room and sits on the bed. Sarah grabs his foot and smells it. 
She drops his foot. 
Juancho stares blankly at her. 
Sarah looks down at the mattress. She smells the mattress. 
Juancho looks at her as if she's drunk. 
Sarah leaps off the bed and turns on the room lights. She takes a huge swig from the champagne bottle, then stalks toward the mattress. 
Juancho leaps off the bed as well and stands back. 
Sarah pulls the mattress off of the bedsprings enough to see what is underneath it. 
Juancho screams. Sarah is too stunned to scream. Stuffed into the bedsprings is a woman's dead and beaten corpse. 
CUT TO: 
CLOSE ON 
Ted's phone ringing. 
Ted looks at the phone as if pondering whether or not to answer it. He taps his fingers. Finally he answers the phone. 
ROOM 716 
SARAH Ted! 
TED What do you want now, for Christ's sake! Who died? 
SARAH (near tears) I don't know, but she's in my bed! 
SARAH Check under the mattress! 
TED For what? 
SARAH (crying) For the body, can't you smell it? 
TED It's your feet! 
Sarah grabs the mattress and pulls it off herself. 
Ted sees the rotting corpse. 
Vomit spews out of Ted's mouth. 
TED (gurgles through vomit- spewing lips) Jesus fucking Christ! What the fuck is this? 
He tears at the phone. 
TED (into the phone) Police, it's an emergency! (pause) Hello, Police, this is the Mon Signor Hotel, get someone up here right fucking now, there's a DEAD WHORE stuffed under the mattress! 
Tears well in Sarah's eyes as she looks at the body. 
SARAH Don't call her that... 
TED (into the phone) I'm dead fucking serious, there's a dead fucking Whore stuffed in the bedsprings of the fucking bed! 
SARAH Stop calling her that!! 
Sarah grabs the hypodermic needle from under the curtain and stabs it into Ted's leg. 
TED FUCK!! 
Sarah steps back, almost tripping over the champagne bottle. She picks up the bottle and holds it defensively in case Ted tries to retaliate. Ted spins around, now noticing the needle sticking out of his leg. 
TED Jesus!! 
Juancho lights up another cigarette. 
The champagne spill has spread to the fallen cigarette butt. The carpet bursts into flames around the spill. 
CUT OUTSIDE TO: 
EXT. ROOM 
CLOSE ON a key going into the keyhole outside. 
BACK TO: 
ROOM 716 
Ted tries to pull the syringe out of his leg, but yanking it makes it break in two, the plunger in his hand, and the needle still stuck in his leg. 
Ted staggers and grabs hold of the dead woman's foot for support as he steps on the remote control, flipping the TV on to the Nudie channel, just as... 
Man opens the door. 
Man stands at the door, drunk Wife unconscious on one arm, the door knob in the other hand. He's looking mean. 
Man's POV: focused on the dead woman in the bedsprings. We pan up the dead woman's leg to find Ted holding her foot. We pan down Ted's leg to find the hypodermic needle jutting out... then pan over to the other hand holding the broken syringe plunger. 
We pan over to the Nudie channel, then down to the fire blazing behind the children. Pan up to the dripping champagne bottle in Sarah's hand, then over to the cigarette hanging out of Juancho's mouth. Juancho tosses his cigarette out of his mouth to an area behind him. Another blaze starts immediately. 
Man drops his Wife to the floor. 
In the WIDE SHOT of Ted and the children, we see that the fireworks are bursting big and bright outside the window behind them. Almost as bright as the flames eating through the room. 
Man simply glares at Ted. Finally Man speaks... 
MAN Did they misbehave? 
Ted stares blankly at Man (the camera) as the sprinklers burst on... drenching the room as the picture 
FADES TO BLACK 
FOUR ROOMS 
FADE UP ON 
INT. HOTEL LOBBY--NIGHT 
SUPER: ONE MINUTE AFTER ROBERT'S STORY. TWENTY MINUTES BEFORE DAWN. 
MARGARET What kinda gun? 
TED I don't know, I'm not a gun guy. It was big. 
MARGARET Like Dirty Harry's gun. 
TED Yeah, something like that. 
MARGARET Did it have a real long barrel or a short barrel? 
TED What difference does it make? 
MARGARET Well, for one thing it's the difference between a .44 Magnum and a Magnum .357. 
TED Who cares if it was a .44 or a .392, it was a fuckin' loaded gun, pointed at my fuckin' head! 
Margaret takes this in. 
MARGARET You wanna skip over this part, too? 
TED I want you to get Betty on the phone! 
MARGARET Hold on. (yelling to the room) Anybody live here named... (to Ted) What's her name again? 
TED Betty. 
MARGARET Betty! 
The sleepy room stirs. Betty wakes up from the floor. 
BETTY Yeah, whatcha screamin' about? 
MARGARET You're Betty? 
BETTY Yeah, I'm Betty, it's my fuckin' place, who the fuck are you? 
MARGARET I'm Margaret (hands her the phone) And this is Ted. 
Betty takes the phone. 
BETTY Ted, what's the problem? 
TED What's the problem? I don't got a problem, I got fuckin' problems! Wanna hear? 
BETTY (yawning, wiping sleep from her eyes) Sure. 
TED Well, most recently, there's room 716. There's a scary Mexican gangster dude pokin' his finger in my chest. There's his hooligan kids snapping their fingers at me. There's the putrid rotting corpse of a dead whore stuffed in the springs of a bed. There're rooms blazing afire... There's a needle from God knows where stuck in my leg, infecting me with God knows what, and finally, there's me walking out the fuckin' door right now! Buenas noches. 
A RINGING SOUND happens that we haven't heard before. Ted's head turns toward it. 
It's the guest board. And the top light, the penthouse, is ringing. It rings where all the others buzzed. 
Betty can hear it distinctly on her side of the line. The sound fully wakes her up. They start talking Howard Hawks style again. 
BETTY (suddenly alert) Is that the penthouse? 
TED Yeah. 
BETTY That's the Chester Rush party, they want something. 
TED Yeah, well, tough titty. They're just gonna have to wait, 'cause I'm out the door. 
BETTY (panicking) Now, Ted, wait a minute. I know you're freaked, I know you're stressed. You've had a real bad night -- 
TED Yes, Betty, I've had-a-real-bad-night -- 
BETTY -- You say there's a dead body in a room? 
TED Yes, I did. 
BETTY No problem, this is a hotel, we've had dead bodies before, it's just the price of doing business. You said the hotel was on fire. Is it still on fire? 
TED No, it's out. 
BETTY Good, sprinkler system worked like a charm. Now, you wanna leave, you've had enough. Perfectly understandable. I'll take care of everything else. The only thing I ask is that you take care of Chester Rush. Then you can leave. 
TED Now, look -- 
BETTY Ted, he's a very important guest of this hotel. In fact, he is the most important guest at the hotel. The Mon Signor used to be a haven for movie stars. Through the thirties and forties, and the first half of the fifties, more movie stars -- if you break it down on a night-by-night basis -- stayed at the Mon Signor than any other hotel in Hollywood. Now, we had some hard time in the eighties, even though we were the official hotel of Cannon Pictures, but we're coming back strong in the nineties. And a movie star clientele is important to that comeback. If we can keep stars of his magnitude happy, we're on our way. So, Ted, just take care of him, then you can leave. 
TED Look, I don't feel like -- 
They clink glasses and drink. 
CHESTER Whadya say, Ted? 
TED Thank you? 
CHESTER No, not thank you. Whadya say about the tasty beverage? 
TED It's good. 
CHESTER Fuckin' good, Ted. It's fuckin' good. Let's try it again, shall we? So, Ted, whadya think about the beverage. 
TED It's fuckin' good. 
CHESTER You bet your sweet bippy, Ted. It's fuckin' Cristal, everything else is piss. 
Norman in the chair starts yelling at Ted. 
NORMAN Bellboy! Bellboy! Bellboy! 
Ted knows he's being laughed at, but not why. 
CHESTER (to Norman) Knock it off, you're making my friend Ted here uneasy. (to Ted) Pay no attention to Norman here, Ted, he's just fuckin' wit' ya, that's all. That's from Quadrophenia. Now me, myself, when I think of bellboys I think of -- "bellboy" isn't an insult, is it? Is there another name for what you do that I'm ignorant of? Bellman, bellperson -- 
TED Bellboy's fine. 
CHESTER Good. I'm glad they haven't changed that. There's a friendliness to "bellboy." As I was saying, Ted, when Norman thinks of bellboys, he thinks of Quadrophenia. 
But me, when I think of bellboys, I think of The Bellboy, with Jerry Lewis. Didja ever see The Bellboy? 
TED No. 
CHESTER You should, it's one of Jerry's better movies. He never says a word through the entire film. A completely silent performance. How many actors can pull that off? And he has to go to France to get respect. That says it all about America right there. The minute Jerry Lewis dies, every paper in this fuckin' country gonna write articles calling the man a genius. It's not right. It's not right and it's not fair. But why should that surprise anybody? When has America ever been fair? We might be right every once in a while, but we're very rarely fair. 
TED Where do you want this? 
CHESTER You in a hurry, Ted? 
TED (he is, but doesn't want to rush the movie star) No, not particularly. 
CHESTER Good, then stop playing "Beat the Clock." Now let me introduce you to everybody. 
He puts his arm around Ted and leads him around the room. 
Angela crosses frame, drink in hand. 
CHESTER Our friend from downstairs you already seem to be acquainted with. 
As she snuggles up in a big comfy chair: 
ANGELA Oh, me and Theodore go way back. Don't we, Theodore? 
TED The name's Ted, Angela. I only let people with loaded guns at my head call me Theodore. 
CHESTER Angela's like you, Ted, a newfound friend. 
ANGELA We met at the pool. 
CHESTER (to Ted) Have you ever seen Angela in a one- piece? 
TED No. 
CHESTER Well, it's somethin' to see. (arm around Ted) The Man sitting in the chair, with the bottle of Jim Bean in his hand and the sense of humor, is Norman. Norman, say hello to Ted. 
NORMAN What's up? 
Norman shakes his hand. 
CHESTER The sociable son of a bitch on the telephone is Leo. And the person on the other end of the phone is his lovely wife Ellen. (to Leo) Leo, say hello to Ted. 
Leo breaks away from his phone conversation for two seconds. 
LEO Hi, Ted, glad you could make it. (back to phone) What? (pause) What does punctuality have to do with love? 
CHESTER Which brings me to me, Chester Rush, Ted. Pleased to meetcha. 
Chester shakes Ted's hand. 
TED I know. I'm sorry I haven't seen your movie. 
Chester stops. 
NORMAN (to Chester) I'm into it. 
CHESTER (to Ted) Go on. 
TED A donut. 
Chester takes it and eats it. 
CHESTER That's for me. Continue. 
TED And a hatchet. 
CHESTER A hatchet as sharp as the devil himself is what I asked for. 
TED Well, you be the judge. 
Ted holds the hatchet out for Chester to take. Norman snatches it instead. 
NORMAN I'll be the judge. 
Norman touches the end of the blade with his thumb. 
CHESTER Whadya think? 
NORMAN That's a sharp motherfucker. Bring all this bullshit over to the bar. 
CHESTER You heard him, Ted. 
Ted is completely confused and starting to get a little scared, but he does what he's told. 
Leo slams down the phone. 
LEO Bitch! 
NORMAN You still married? 
LEO Maybe, maybe not, but I don't give a flyin' fuck either way. I've had it with that Machiavellian bitch! I'm too drunk to drive home. I'm sorry about that, I'm real sorry about that. I got drunk on New Year's Eve, cut my fuckin' head off... (noticing Ted at the bar) What's going on here? 
CHESTER We now return you to The Man from Rio, already in progress. 
LEO (surprised) Noooo, you're gonna do it? 
NORMAN Looks like. 
LEO You guys ain't bullshittin', you're gonna really go for it? 
Angela is still curled up. 
ANGELA After talkin' about it all night, they better. I wanna see a show. 
CHESTER When we do it, you'll have something to see. 
Leo walks up to Norman and throws his arm around him. 
LEO You are one radical dude. 
Ted doesn't know what anybody's talking about, which is just fine with him. He finishes laying out everything on the bar and says: 
TED Well, that's everything, so if you don't need me for anything else, I'll go back downstairs. 
CHESTER Not so fast, Ted. We ain't quite done yet. Why don't you take a seat at the bar, get comfortable, and have an open mind when we explain the festivities of the evening to you. 
TED Look, guys, you paid for the room. As long as you don't break up the furniture, you can do whatever the fuck you want. And me personally, I don't care if you break up the furniture. You don't have to explain anything to me. Whatever constitutes a good time as far as you guys are concerned is your business. 
CHESTER Well, it's your business, Ted. 'Cause we want you to take part. 
TED Take part in what? 
LEO Chester, your way of breaking the news to him gently is scarin' the shit outta him. 
ANGELA Look at the poor guy. Just spit it out. 
Little by little everybody has gathered around Ted. 
CHESTER First off, let me say that there's nothing homosexual about what we're going to ask you to do. There's nothing sexual at all about what we want. But I was thinkin' you might be thinkin' we want you to do some sex thing. Pee on us, suck us off, shit like that. Let me assure you nothing could be farther from what we want -- 
Angela interrupts: 
ANGELA Can I jump in here? 
CHESTER No, you can't jump in here, this is my story. 
TED I gotta get out of here. 
Ted abruptly gets up and makes a beeline for the door. 
Chester whips out a hundred-dollar bill and quickly calls to Ted from his position at the bar. 
CHESTER Ted, I got a hundred-dollar bill here with your name on it, whether you do what we ask or not, just to sit back down in the chair for one minute more. 
Ted spins in his direction. 
TED I'm not gonna cut off his finger! 
CHESTER Maybe you will and maybe you won't, but that has nothing to do with this hundred-dollar bill in my hand. You can tell us all to go fuck off and walk right out that door. But if you sit back down and wait sixty seconds before you do it, you'll be a hundred dollars richer. 
Ted just stands across the room, thinking. 
ANGELA Ted. Take the money. 
LEO Ted, you're gonna do whatever you want to do. We're just askin' you to indulge us for another minute more. And Chester's willin' to pay for it. 
Ted thinks. 
TED I'll take your money, and I'll sit back down. But a minute from now, I'm gonna walk out the door, and when I do, there'll be no hard feelings? 
CHESTER Well, I want you to have a bit more of an open mind than that, but, yeah, we'll either convince you or we won't. No hard feelings. Right, guys? 
Everybody agrees. 
Ted wearily sits back down. 
Chester positions himself in front of Ted at the bar. 
CHESTER Okay, Leo, you be the timekeeper. Let us know when one minute begins and when it ends. 
LEO You got it. (he checks his watch) Gentlemen, start your engines. 
Chester jumps up and down, loosening up. 
LEO Begin! 
Chester, who talks fast anyway, starts his pitch. It's Chester who now plays "Beat the Clock." 
CHESTER Okay, pay attention here, Ted, I ain't got much time. Now I'm gonna make two piles here on the bar. (he takes the hundred- dollar bill and lays it out on the bar) One pile, (pointing at the hundred-dollar bill) which is yours. And another pile, (Chester whips out a money roll fat enough to choke a horse to death) which could be yours. (he lays a matching hundred-dollar bill on the bar, starting a second pile) Now, what you have to be aware of is we're gonna do this bet, one way, (he lays another hundred on the end pile) or the other. (he lays another hundred on the pile) Whether it's you who holds the ax, (he lays another hundred on the pile) or the desk clerk downstairs, (he lays another hundred on the pile) or some bum we yank off the street. (he lays another hundred on the pile) 
NORMAN You can buy a lot of soup with that pile. 
CHESTER (to Norman) Shhhh, I'm the closer. (to the group) How much is on the bar already? I lost count. 
ANGELA Six hundred. 
CHESTER Six hundred. Ted, do you know how long it takes the average American to count to six hundred? 
TED No. 
CHESTER (laying another bill on the pile) One minute less than it takes to count to seven hundred. You know, Ted, a person's life is made up of a zillion little experiences. (he lays another bill on the pile) Some, which have no meaning, are insignificant and you forget them. And some that stick with you for the rest of your natural life -- (he lays another bill on the pile) -- barring Alzheimer's of course. Now, what we're proposing is so unusual, so outside the norm, that I think it would be a pretty good guess that this will be one of those experiences that sticks. So, since you're gonna be stuck remembering this moment for the rest of your life, you gotta decide what that memory will be. (He lays down the last bill on the pile) So, are you gonna remember for the next forty years, give or take a decade, how you refused a thousand dollars for one second's worth of work, or how you made a thousand dollars for one second's worth of work? 
LEO Time! 
CHESTER Well, Ted, what's it gonna be? 
Ted looks at the pile, then looks up. We dolly into his face. 
FLASHBACK 
We see a quick MONTAGE of horrendous moments from all the other stories. 
INT. PENTHOUSE--NIGHT 
Back to Ted. 
TED Okay. 
The group cheers. 
TED But when it's over, no matter what happens, I get the money? 
CHESTER As long as you do your part, you can take the pile, walk out the door, and not say another word. 
TED Let's do it right now, before I change my mind. 
NORMAN Here, here. 
