FRACTURE 
Written by 
Dan Pyne 
Current Revisions by 
Glenn Gers 
January 6, 2005 
CREDITS SEQUENCE: EXTREME CLOSE-UPS An unfinished mechanical device: a scaffold of thin metal pipes, levers, pulleys, wiring, serve-motors. THOMAS CRAWFORD works on it: in his 40s, well-dressed but in disarray, graying stubble, hair and clothes unkempt. Magnifying glasses distort his eyes, making them huge and strange. He sets aside a tool, takes a marble-sized ball-bearing and drops it into a slot at the top of the device. His enlarged eyes follow the metal ball - - as it rolls and flips and spirals through a Rube-Goldberg- style maze, setting off bells, clicking past turnstiles - - then missing a leap and clattering across the work-table. Eyes on the device, Crawford's hand traps the ball. He stays still, analyzing. He selects a tiny screwdriver from a neat array of metal- working and electronics tools. Makes a miniscule adjustment to a single joint. Drops in another ball. It rolls and flips and spirals all the way down. Crawford doesn't react.   Just studies the machine. Behind him, on a desk: a framed photograph of a beautiful woman in her mid-30s. His wife. 
INT. LUXURY BEACH-HOTEL ROOM - THE SAME TIME 
JENNIFER CRAWFORD is just reaching orgasm - - with ROB NUNALLY: mid-30s, good-looking, aging-boyish. They clutch each other, shuddering, lost in passion. And then, breathing heavily, caressing each other - Nunally rolls off her - slowly coming back to earth. Jennifer studies her lover, a quiet play of relief and gratitude and satisfaction on her face - - darkened by a troubled distance, maybe even fear. She is, after all, having an affair. 
INT. CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY 
Crawford stares through the grotesque lenses, motionless, expressionless. 
He takes a deep breath and checks his watch.   Then he stands, removing the glasses. 
We now see his office: large, austere. Decor and equipment related to aircraft engineering. Outside big windows, jets take off from an industrial airstrip. 
Crawford gets a brand-new bottle of Jack Daniels from a desk drawer, uncaps it and swigs as he opens the door to a private bathroom. 
He gargles, spits into the sink. He pours out more, then puts the half-empty bottle back on his desk. 
He collects a home-made device from the workbench: it looks like a PDA connected by wires to a blank credit card. 
He puts it in the pocket of his suit jacket, which he sets on the desk. Adjusts the placement of the open bottle, nearby. Crawford goes to a light-box, studying a set of large X-rays: dark strips of welding in a grayish fuzz of metal. 
TINA, his assistant, appears in the doorway. 
TINA The N.T.S.B. guys are here. 
CRAWFORD (Doesn't look up) Yep. 
She hesitates a second, glancing at the bottle. Crawford ignores her, pulling an x-ray off the light-box and grabbing his jacket - - which knocks over the bottle.   It skitters across the desk, liquor spilling. Crawford just walks out past Tina. 
INT. AIRPLANE HANGER - SOON AFTER 
The twisted, torn and burned wreckage of a large private jet is being reassembled on the big empty concrete floor. 
N.T.S.B. INVESTIGATORS in shirtsleeves and AIRCRAFT COMPANY EXECUTIVES in suits cluster around work-boards covered with photographs and diagrams of a crash site. They look up, falling silent, as Crawford comes in carrying the X-ray. A few exchange surprised, concerned glances; this is not a man who skips a shave. But when he gets to them, Crawford is laser-like - holding the X-ray and pointing to a spot three inches above it: 
CRAWFORD It's here. 
He hands a startled Investigator the film and strides off toward the giant open doors out to the airfield. His foot knocks a piece of the carefully-laid-out wreckage in passing; it clatters across the concrete, but Crawford doesn't slow or look back. 
INT. LUXURY BEACH-HOTEL ROOM - SOON AFTER 
Rob is still in the bed, naked under the sheet - watching Jennifer adjust the straps of her bathing suit. 
ROB What about dinner tonight? 
She looks at him, surprised.    Smiles, comes to sit beside him. Gently: 
JENNIFER We go out to dinner - we might never come back. 
CRAWFORD I could use a hug. Jennifer submits guiltily.   Crawford embraces her, tight. She waits it out, until: 
JENNIFER Have you been drinking? He lets go and she steps back.   Studying him.   Scared. 
CRAWFORD I've been watching you sleep.   At night. 
JENNIFER (Gently) That's creepy. 
CRAWFORD Sometimes when I'm at work, I'll start thinking about you and I'll just get - just - overwhelmed. 
JENNIFER Tommy - 
CRAWFORD It's a dense, crushing - geophysical force. Like I'm pinned. At the core - where things change. (beat) You ever get that way about me, Jen? 
JENNIFER What are you talking about? 
CRAWFORD I'm trying to describe my feelings. 
JENNIFER Those don't sound like feelings. 
CRAWFORD No? (Beat) What's the sound of one feeling...in a forest? 
JENNIFER You think you're so much smarter than I am. That must make you feel very powerful. 
CRAWFORD Helpless, actually. Silence. 
JENNIFER Okay.     Maybe it's time to really talk. 
CRAWFORD No. 
JENNIFER No? He shakes his head.     Frayed and worn, she sighs. 
JENNIFER Fine. Whatever. I'll make you some dinner. He watches her turn and head for the kitchen.          To her back: 
CRAWFORD I know.     Everything. She stops, exhales.    Looking down.   Afraid.    Grateful it's happening at last. 
JENNIFER I'm so sorry. 
CRAWFORD Don't be. Knowledge is pain.         I'm used to that. Jennifer winces, feeling some sympathy.     Preparing herself to turn and end it, to grow, to move on. 
CRAWFORD It's not like I don't let little pleasures, in return for the pain. 
She frowns and turns - and her eyes go big with fear. Crawford is holding a semi-automatic pistol, aimed at her face. Very still. The gunshot explodes out of the muzzle - bright, harsh, loud. 
EXT. GIFFORD HOUSE - FRONT YARD - CONTINUOUS 
Gifford and his Grandson turn to look at the Crawford house. 
INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Crawford stands, tilting his head to watch the slow hypnotic curl of smoke leaking from the gun in his extended hand. The hand, we might notice now, wears a surgical glove. He lowers the gun, bends to pick up the ejected shell-casing from the floor. He wipes it and tosses it aside, on his way to Jennifer. He stands looking down at her: face-up on the floor, head in a small pool of blood, eyes and mouth open. The doorbell rings. 
EXT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 
Gifford leans on the frosted-glass panel next to the door - hands cupped around his eyes, trying to see in. 
GIFFORD Tom?   Jen?   Everything okay in there? 
INT. CRAWFORD FOYER - CONTINUOUS 
Crawford steps in from the living room. 
CRAWFORD We both put down our guns.      At the same time. Crawford gestures to a chair across the room - by the foyer door, near Nunally. 
CRAWFORD We set them down and step away. (Beat) Then you can "pay more attention" to what I'm saying. Nunally studies Crawford...and the gun, hovering above the coffee table. Looking for a trick, a catch. But there isn't one. If Crawford sets down his gun and steps away, he'll be standing in the open center of the room. 
CRAWFORD Happy ending, then. Nunally stares Crawford in the eyes - - then slowly takes his gun from his shoulder holster. Eyes on each other from across the room - moving very slowly - the two men cautiously set down their guns - - and step away.   Crawford smiles. Nunally smiles, too, reassuring and false. Begins to edge forward - alert to the possibility of a lunge for the gun or having another weapon. But Crawford stays absolutely still. 
NUNALLY Mr. Crawford, your neighbor mentioned that your wife - 
CRAWFORD It's Tom. 
NUNALLY I'm sorry? 
CRAWFORD You can call me Tom. 
NUNALLY Tom.   Your wife. Is she here? 
CRAWFORD Yes. Crawford gestures to a library alcove, behind him, out of view. 
NUNALLY Is she all right? Nunally begins to drift slowly to the side, to see. 
CRAWFORD I don't think she is.     I shot her, Rob. Nunally's nodding, edging to look into the alcove - 
NUNALLY You shot your wife. 
CRAWFORD It was like I just suddenly - snapped. We were arguing - and I got the gun. 
NUNALLY - okay - I hear you - 
CRAWFORD And I shot her in the head.   I know it was wrong. (Beat) Are you listening to me? But Nunally is not. He's frozen - staring, shocked, at the back wall of the alcove - which he can now see. There's a big framed black-white photograph: a portrait of Jennifer Crawford. 
NUNALLY Oh Jesus Christ. Nunally fumbles for his walkie-talkie, rushing past Crawford toward the alcove - - kneeling by Jennifer, who lies, face-up in a red puddle - 
NUNALLY (into walkie-talkie) We need a medic in here! Get the ambulance up! RIGHT NOW! NOW! NOW! Nunally feels her neck frantically for a pulse - looking in her open, vacant eyes for some sign - 
NUNALLY Oh no - God no - I can't - get a - Nunally desperately starts C.P.R., his hands getting bloody. He stops to check her neck for a pulse now and then - - as Crawford slowly approaches from the living room, standing behind Nunally. Cold. 
CRAWFORD You know, I think I read somewhere that a good place to find a pulse is the femoral artery. It's on the inner surface of the upper thigh. If you put your fingers - you know, right up inside her dress - 
Nunally turns and lunges up, smashing a fist into Crawford's face. Crawford reels backward with Nunally - - the two of them falling with Nunally on top, beating Crawford furiously, cursing - - as SWAT COPS burst in, grabbing Nunally, dragging him back - knocking into PARAMEDICS trying to get to Jennifer - - Nunally kicking, flailing, spitting at Crawford - who's put face-down on the floor, to get cuffed. Nunally pulls free from the SWAT cops, distraught, angry - going to retrieve his gun and shove it in his shoulder- holster, struggling to regain control. 
PARAMEDIC Wait a second - she's not dead! Nunally whirls - everyone freezing, breathless, falling silent. The Paramedics kneeling around Jennifer work - - as Crawford lies on the floor, staring at his wife. Like she's a machine that defied astronomical odds and refused to behave according to his calculations. 
EXT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - SOON AFTER 
Jennifer's stretcher is loaded into an ambulance, doors slamming shut and sirens kicking on - - as Crawford, cuffed behind his back, is pushed into the back seat of a police car. His eyes on the ambulance as it pulls away, carrying his wife. 
INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - SOON AFTER 
A DETECTIVE uses a pencil to lift Crawford's gun from the coffee table and carefully put it in an evidence bag. Nunally stands back, watching the COPS and TECHNICIANS work the scene - lost in his thoughts, shaken. 
SWAT COMMANDER You all right? Nunally "wakes" - nods.   Absently: 
NUNALLY Yeah.     I'm good. To avoid talking more, he heads out to the glaring lights and chaos outside. 
FADE OUT 
INT. WILLY'S APARTMENT - THE NEXT MORNING 
The alarm clock shifts to 6:00 am and pops on to local news and traffic - - but the narrow futon bed is already empty. WILLY SLOCUM works at a laptop on his second-hand desk, lit by a solitary lamp. He is in his late-20s, good-looking. Short hair, office-pale but athletic, wearing mis-matched sweats from Eastern Oklahoma State College. He jots a final note, sets his yellow legal pad aside. As he goes to the closet-sized bathroom, pulling off his sweatshirt and starting the tiny pre-fab shower, we linger on the laptop screen: rental listings for a new apartment. 
TIME CUT The bare overhead bulb is on, revealing the concrete floor and painted-plywood walls. His clothes hang neatly on a length of pipe suspended by ropes from the exposed rafters. Law school texts fill cinderblock-and-board shelves. The radio chatters.    Willy knots a tie in his crisp white collar. 
WILLY (Enjoying, mock-helpless) It's what the man told me to call him. 
GLADYS You're gonna need to pick out a style, Willy. 
WILLY A style. 
GLADYS For the tuxedo. Willy hesitates, in over his head.   A DDA helpfully does the Travolta finger-in-the-air pose. 
WILLY I don't know - I just don't want to look like I'm going to the prom. 
GLADYS You wanna go Classic.    Fix him up. 
MONA We'll get you something Classic. (Picks up a ringing phone) Willy Slocum's office. 
NORMAN Make sure it comes with cuff-links and knee-pads. 
WILLY Oh, that's very nice: it's good to be back in high school. 
MONA (Hanging up) Willy? Her tone makes him - and everyone else - turn. 
MONA God wants to see you. 
WILLY (Beat) Our God? 
MONA Who art on the Eleventh Floor. Willy, startled, looks around. Approving nods, raised eyebrows. He tightens his tie and heads for the elevators. 
NORMAN There is no justice! There is no justice in the city of Los Angeles! 
INT. LOBRUTO'S OFFICE - SOON AFTER 
District Attorney JOE LOBRUTO, 50-ish, sits behind a massive oak desk, studying a thick file. Doesn't look up as a SECRETARY shows Willy in. Willy hesitates. Looks around: he's never been here. Flags, wood panelling, leather furniture, windows overlooking the city. Finally Lobruto looks up, takes Willy in. 
LOBRUTO William No-Middle-Initial Slocum. 
WILLY Yes sir. 
LOBRUTO Sit. (As Willy does:) Eighty-four-percent conviction rate. That's remarkable. 
WILLY Thank you. 
LOBRUTO With a case load thirty percent higher than any other first-year DDA. (Beat) Of course - you also swapped more cases than the rest of them put together. Willy considers his options.   He always does. 
WILLY I offered my losing cases in exchange for two or three of anyone else's possible convictions. They couldn't handle their workloads, and I prefer not to lose. Lobruto knew this; the question was would Willy admit it. 
LOBRUTO You're going to need a middle initial. 
WILLY Sir? 
LOBRUTO You're going to Wooton Sims. 
WILLY In two weeks. 
LOBRUTO You'll be able to afford a better suit. But those guys all play squash and have middle names. They go in for the mother's maiden name a lot. Beat. Willy doesn't like the implied personal judgement, but the only way it shows is how calm he stays. 
WILLY My mother didn't have a maiden name. Lobruto nods, unruffled by Willy's hard calm. 
LOBRUTO So you're a bastard; sometimes I can be a son-of-a-bitch. Maybe you belong here. 
WILLY I didn't work this hard to stay where I belong. 
LOBRUTO You're a street-fighter, Willy. You should be in court. We can move you up to better cases. 
BAILIFF The State of California Versus Thomas Crawford. The Defense rises; Crawford hardly pays any attention to the Judge - glancing back and noticing Nunally, whose eyes bore into him, haunted and burning. Crawford stares at him impassively a second, then turns to lean past his P.D. and watch Willy hastily skim the file. 
JUDGE Mr. Crawford, you've been charged with section 664 slash 187 of the California Penal Code: Attempted Murder, with additional allegations of Assault With a Deadly Weapon - Penal Code section 245 dash A2, with Great Bodily Injury, P.C. Section 12022.07. (Beat) Do you waive further reading of the complaint and complete statement of rights? 
P.D.                              CRAWFORD (sotto)                    I do.     But, your honor - You do. 
JUDGE FELDMAN And do you wish to enter a plea at this time? 
CRAWFORD Not guilty. But I also want to waive my right to counsel, and represent myself. Willy looks up from the file - startled. 
JUDGE FELDMAN Do you have a problem with your appointed counsel, Mr. Crawford? 
CRAWFORD No. I just want to do it myself.     I believe it's within my rights. 
P.D. Your honor, if I could have a moment with my client - 
CRAWFORD I'm not your client. Try and keep up, would you? The P.D. shuts up, taken aback. The Judge considers Crawford, thoughtful, then turns to Willy. 
JUDGE FELDMAN Do the People have an objection or a comment for the record, Mr. Slocum? Willy hesitates, held by Crawford's strange, amused gaze. Shakes it off: 
WILLY I'm sorry, your honor: we've got the weapon and a signed confession. I really think Mr. Crawford needs a competent attorney to - frankly - negotiate a plea. Crawford reaches up with cuffed hands and adjusts an imaginary bow-tie. Willy self-consciously touches where Crawford indicated on his own collar, straightens his clip- on. 
Crawford nods: you're welcome.    Willy turns to the Judge. 
WILLY I - can't - this was supposed to be - with a pro se defendant, this is going to drag out for months - and I'm not even going to be here. The People request a continuance to - 
CRAWFORD Excuse me? Your honor? I'm willing to waive my right to a preliminary hearing and go directly to a jury trial. (To Willy) Does that help? 
JUDGE You don't need to look out for Mr. Slocum, Mr. Crawford. The District Attorney's office can shift another prosecutor to the case - 
CRAWFORD No, I like Mr. Slocum. Beat. 
JUDGE FELDMAN Mr. Slocum?   He likes you. 
WILLY Terrific. 
JUDGE FELDMAN Mr. Crawford seems to understand his rights and responsibilities. 
WILLY All due respect, your honor, I'm worried this may turn into some sort of a - circus - 
JUDGE FELDMAN I appreciate your concern for the dignity of my courtroom, Mr. Slocum - considering you're making the argument dressed as a game-show host. Unfortunately, the man is a tax-paying citizen, entitled by our Constitution to try and manipulate the legal system, like everybody else. (turning) 
(MORE) 
JUDGE FELDMAN (cont'd) As for you, Mr. Crawford, I strongly urge you to retain counsel. Lack of same will not be grounds for appeal. 
CRAWFORD I understand.     Thank you. 
JUDGE FELDMAN Are the People ready to go to trial without a preliminary hearing? Willy hesitates, irritated. Looks through the file again. Checks Crawford - waiting, polite. 
WILLY Sure.   Why not. Crawford smiles at him, as the Judge opens her calendar. 
INT. PARKING STRUCTURE - LATER 
Willy, in his tux, comes out of a staircase and stops.   Rob Nunally is waiting by Willy's parked car. 
NUNALLY You're supposed to be good. Willy takes him in - wary, seeing an edge of anger and fear beneath the tough controlled cop manner. 
WILLY Is that what I'm supposed to be? 
NUNALLY I asked around. You're supposed to be top-notch - but to me it looks like you've got one foot out the door, and you're wiping the rest of us off the bottom of the other one. 
WILLY Okay. 
NIKKI Wooton Sims expects absolute loyalty and a hundred-and-ten-percent performance. But: you get to work on legendary litigation. National, sometimes global, in scope. It's high- stakes. And cut-throat - even within the team. We burn out associates at an astonishing rate. 
WILLY You're trying to scare me. 
NIKKI Yes. 
WILLY You're going to have to try harder. She stops walking.   Studying Willy. 
NIKKI Can I ask you something personal? 
WILLY Sure. 
NIKKI Who are you? Willy doesn't answer. Maybe uncertain what she means. Maybe not wanting her to know. Or even not knowing, himself. 
NIKKI We have a guy in our criminal division, fresh out of Yale, named Calvin Tyler. One of our very rich clients gets pulled over, D.U.I. - which is routine bullshit, so Calvin gets it. Against you. Next thing we know, Calvin is fired, and Bob Wooton, who has never even interviewed a junior associate before - let alone hired one - says you're on my team. Willy weighs his options.    Decides to level: 
WILLY It was a good bust, so Calvin came to me for a deal. I told him if he could arrange an interview for me with Mr. Wooton, I would throw the case. I laid out his arguments and evidence for him - and I showed him how I would lose. Calvin set up my appointment for the day after our court date. Then he did what I had suggested in court - and I wiped the floor with him. Your client got the maximum. Next day, I met with Mr. Wooton. (Shrugs) Bob. Beat. 
NIKKI Wow. You know what's brilliant about that? 
WILLY Yes. 
NIKKI You didn't actually do anything all that wrong. 
WILLY Well - I wasn't entirely honest with Calvin. His cell-phone rings.    He ignores it. 
NIKKI You gonna get that? 
WILLY Everyone I need to talk to is here. They are both feeling the electricity in the air between them. They wait the phone out, enjoying the forbidden insanity of it. But then: 
NIKKI We need to talk about your transition timetable. 
WILLY All right. 
NIKKI Bob believes in trial-by-fire. He wants you up-to-speed two weeks from Tuesday, because we're getting on a plane to Chicago for depositions in a class-action against our biggest client, Armstead Pharmaceutical. 
WILLY No problem. She studies Willy, trying to make sure he understands: 
NIKKI That's catch-up on three years' work - and you haven't closed out your old job yet. 
WILLY I'm good at trials.    Even by fire. Beat. 
NIKKI You know, a little bit of fear can be a very healthy thing to have. 
WILLY I'm looking forward to when I can afford the luxury of having some. Nikki sighs, smiles.    Enjoying him, somewhat reluctantly. 
NIKKI I'll have them put the Armstead materials in your new office. 
WILLY Thanks.    Boss. He watches her head off into the night. He remains, alone, in his tuxedo, looking at the elegant glittering arts plaza. Then he checks his cell-phone.     Dials. 
INTERCUT WITH: 
INT. FORENSICS LAB - LATER 
MARCHAND, Senior S.I.D. (Scene Investigation Division) Tech, works as he talks into a speaker-phone. He and Willy have teamed-up often, and an underlying respect lets them mock each other. 
MARCHAND Marchand. 
WILLY It's Willy Slocum.     What's up? 
WILLY Do I need it?! The weapon?! He takes a second.   Sighs, exasperated - but honest: 
WILLY I don't know. Probably not. Defendant's a whack-job. 
MARCHAND He went pro se, right? 
WILLY Yeah. Just when you think they're not really stupid, they defend themselves. 
MARCHAND You've got a confession and an airtight bunch of circumstantial. (Apologetic) We've gone over this place top-to- bottom three times now, Willy. Willy takes a breath.   Thinks it through. 
WILLY Yeah, okay. Don't worry about it. (Beat) Sorry - got a lot going on. 
MARCHAND Must be rough, figuring out what you're gonna do with all that money. 
WILLY Hey, I had to sit through an opera last week. 
MARCHAND Oh gee - lemme see if I can express how much sympathy I have: Marchand snaps his phone shut. Willy smiles, hangs up. But then his smile fades, as he glances down again at Crawford's box of papers. Hundreds of pages.   Every single one scrawled NO. Willy considers them. 
INT. COUNTY JAIL - INTERROGATION ROOM - LATER 
Metal chairs. Bad light. Crawford sits, cuffed, at a table, waiting. Looks up as the door unlocks. A GUARD lets Willy in, locks the door behind him. Crawford watches Willy take a legal pad, files, pens from his briefcase, set them on the table. 
CRAWFORD How's my wife? 
WILLY I don't know. 
CRAWFORD I heard somewhere, I think it was on N.P.R., that you're supposed to talk to people in a coma. Play their favorite music. Supposedly it reaches them. Willy, now ready, lets Crawford study him. 
CRAWFORD You represent Jennifer. The voice of the victim, judicially speaking. But you haven't gone to see her? 
WILLY Not yet. 
CRAWFORD Too busy getting up to speed on Armstead Pharmaceutical? Beat. 
WILLY I beg your pardon? 
CRAWFORD I'm not judging you. I think anyone - coming from...what you came from - then paying your way through East-Okie Cowshit College and Tulsa Law by writing papers for Princeton kids on the internet - my God, it must have eaten your liver! Sixty-thousand dollars in debt, eighty-four percent conviction rate: you deserve this. Willy tries to stay in control. 
WILLY What the hell have you been doing. 
CRAWFORD I'm permitted the use of a private investigator. 
WILLY Not to investigate me! 
CRAWFORD Why not?   You're investigating me. 
WILLY You shot your wife. 
CRAWFORD Allegedly. That's how it works, right? If I can't introduce something in court as evidence - it doesn't exist. Legally. 
WILLY Look - I don't want to play games with you. 
CRAWFORD I'm afraid you have to. 
Beat. Willy reconstructs his formal cool. Takes some pages scrawled NO from a folder, pushes them across the table. 
WILLY Is this some form of - communication? 
CRAWFORD You sent me a box of papers. 
WILLY It's called Discovery.       The State has a legal obliga- 
WILLY Just want to be ready for Chicago. I'm all closed-out, downtown. Last trial starts Monday. Beat.   Not pleased: 
NIKKI You've got a trial Monday? 
WILLY Yeah: attempted murder. 
NIKKI That gives you three days. You told me - and I told Bob - that you would be ready to hit the ground r- 
WILLY The man confessed.    And he's pro se. 
NIKKI Willy, some but acting as his own lawyer - he could drag it out for months! 
WILLY You want to hear his witness list? Nikki nods.   Willy is silent.     She frowns. 
NIKKI No witnesses? Willy leans in, enjoying this part - analyzing, even admiring, Crawford's ploy: 
WILLY It's kind of clever: this guy is trying to provoke the system into declaring him insane. I think he thinks we'll call in the doctors and he can fake 'em out by refusing the defense. He's acting out this really - organized plan to appear crazy. Beat.   Nikki considers Willy. 
NIKKI You're gonna miss being in court, aren't you? He studies her, confident.    Gestures to the stacks of Armstead materials: 
WILLY I'm almost halfway through these. And I think I've already found about six disqualifiers in Delaware, Ohio, and Florida. I have to check case law in each state, but it looks good. I'll get the rest done over the long weekend. Nikki sighs, smiles a little, against her will.      He's won her over...again. Willy shrugs, grins.    In the silence, the impossible electricity returns.    After a moment - to defuse it: 
NIKKI You don't go home for Thanksgiving? Slight beat. 
WILLY No. She studies him a moment, thoughtful.    Careful. 
NIKKI If you want - you're welcome at mine. My family's. 
WILLY Really? She nods. Smiling a little, knowing her family and starting to know Willy: 
NIKKI I think it would be interesting. Beat. 
WILLY Yeah.    Okay, thank you. 
NIKKI Cool. Beat.   She leaves.    Willy doesn't go back to work right away. 
INT. COURTROOM - THE NEXT DAY 
JUDGE ROBINSON presiding. A mid-sized crowd, including a few REPORTERS. A UNIFORM COP is in the witness box, Willy stands in the Prosecution Table. 
UNIFORM COP We established a perimeter around the house and then waited for SWAT and the Negotiator. It was strictly by the book. 
WILLY So the house was completely surrounded within how long of the first shots? Crawford sits alone at the Defense Table. He wears an expensive suit and no handcuffs, but two DEPUTIES sit behind him. He's barely listening to the testimony - drawing on his legal pad: intricate, dense complex diagrams of "Rube Goldberg" contraptions. 
UNIFORM COP Maybe ten minutes. 
WILLY And when you arrived at the sc- Crawford noisily tears a page off his pad.     Looks up - sees Willy, and everyone else, turned to him. 
CRAWFORD Sorry. 
Willy sighs, returns to the Cop. 
WILLY When you arrived on the scene, was there a crowd? 
UNIFORM COP Oh yeah. Neighbors, came out to look soon as it started. 
WILLY And from what you could ascertain, no one went into or came out of the house until SWAT and the negotiator arrived? 
UNIFORM COP Definitely not. 
WILLY Thank you.   No further questions. 
JUDGE ROBINSON Mr. Crawford - 
CRAWFORD You said layman's terms - 
WILLY Your honor - 
CRAWFORD I'm sorry - what would you call it - legally - when the officer who arrested you has been having sexual intercourse with your wife? Utter silence. Willy whirls a look at Nunally.     The cop meets his eyes - a deer in headlights. 
WILLY (Low) Oh - shit. 
CRAWFORD I think it's objectionable - maybe I'm wrong. 
WILLY Your honor... 
JUDGE ROBINSON Detective Nunally? Nunally looks down, silent.    Shaking his head. 
CRAWFORD Rob? 
WILLY Your honor, the People request a - Nunally suddenly launches himself over the witness box rail to attack Crawford - as the Deputies leap forward to stop him - all of them flailing and cursing in a tangle - 
- spectators screaming, fleeing, gawking.   Chaos. 
INT. JUDGE ROBINSON'S CHAMBERS - SOON AFTER 
The Judge grim, Willy panicked, Crawford calm. 
WILLY He had my witness list.   He should have filed to suppress. 
CRAWFORD (Shrugs) My mistake. Sorry. 
JUDGE ROBINSON Mr. Crawford, I warned you about representing yourself. 
CRAWFORD What about the fact that it's true? I mean, isn't that the point here: to get to the truth? 
JUDGE ROBINSON Mr. Slocum - is it true? 
WILLY I don't know. I only heard about it five minutes ago. 
CRAWFORD Put him back on the witness stand if you don't believe me. 
WILLY We can't put him back on now! Not after what the jury just saw. Your honor, I told you this would turn into a circus. First he provokes the witness with an outrageous allegation - 
CRAWFORD My Dick has evidence. The Judge and Willy look at Crawford like he's truly insane. 
JUDGE ROBINSON Excuse me? 
CRAWFORD My investigator. I call him Dick. I guess I should call him as a rebuttal 
(MORE) 
CRAWFORD (cont'd) witness? He's got phone records, credit receipts, photographs, videotapes - all documenting the affair. In graphic detail. (Beat. Mildly:) Dick is good. The Judge looks at Willy.    This is bad.    Thinking fast: 
WILLY Okay - um: I'll stipulate that my witness was less than forthcoming ...and that can more or less cancel out the fact that the defendant withheld a crucial - 
JUDGE ROBINSON Mr. Slocum - your witness was intimate with the victim, and he assaulted the defendant during the arrest. 
CRAWFORD Actually, while obtaining my so-called "confession." Willy stares at Crawford, shaken.    Understanding the trap. 
WILLY No way.   Your honor - 
JUDGE ROBINSON He's got a point. They were alone in the house. The confession is no good. 
WILLY No. 
NIKKI Well, he pretty much has to if he's gonna save any face. So here's the strategy: you let him. Willy cautiously lifts the box's flaps - pulls aside tissue paper - to reveal: A single eggshell.   Broken, empty. 
WILLY I let him? 
INT. COUNTY JAIL - CONTINUOUS 
Crawford begins to smile. 
NIKKI (V.O.) Yeah, damage control. Stop getting your face on TV. As it is, I had to talk Bob down from cancelling your contract. 
INT. WILLY'S OFFICE/GLAMOROUS BAR - RESUME 
Willy is staring down at the broken eggshell, barely listening to Nikki. 
NIKKI (CONT'D) But we've got to move fast and get out from under. Otherwise, and I quote: "Stick a fork in this kid's ass and turn him over, he's done." 
WILLY I can't just - walk away. 
NIKKI Willy: today, you got killed. The issue now is saving your new life. Willy can't take his eyes off Crawford's "gift." 
WILLY I guess...that would be the smart way of looking at it. 
INT. COUNTY JAIL - CONTINUOUS 
Crawford stares right at us.       Smiling.   Ice cold. 
INT. WILLY'S OFFICE/GLAMOROUS BAR - RESUME 
Nikki is sympathetic, misunderstanding Willy's quiet: 
NIKKI You want to come out and get drunk? 
WILLY No. Thank you. I've got some stuff to take care of. 
NIKKI All right.    Don't beat yourself up. 
WILLY I won't. He hangs up.    Considering the empty eggshell.       But then he looks up: District Attorney Lobruto is in his office doorway, trying to decide whether to be angry. 
LOBRUTO You don't look into who the victim was sleeping with? Willy burns, ashamed.       But unable to admit it. 
WILLY He - threw me off. (Frustrated) Look, Crawford knew he'd be the prime suspect, so he gave us everything - but he made it all radioactive. The night this went down, it was over. 
LOBRUTO But you still walked   it into court, Willy. We might not    have a case...but it didn't have to be   a public humiliation for this   office and the police department. Silence. 
WILLY Are you taking me off? 
LOBRUTO You're leaving anyway. 
WILLY I'm starting to get a sense of this guy. 
LOBRUTO That's not new evidence. 
WILLY I can take him now: he thinks he's smarter than I am. 
LOBRUTO It's not about you, Willy. 
WILLY Yeah, it is. He made it that way. (Shows him the egg) He likes me. 
LOBRUTO What is that - some kind of Oklahoma insult? 
WILLY That's how it works with the law. 
RESIDENT I knew I should have gone to law school. Willy watches the Resident go out. Then he looks back down at Jennifer. Listening to the machines. 
INT. CRAWFORD OFFICE - THE NEXT DAY 
Willy wanders.   Tina, the assistant, waits in the doorway. He's trying to conceal the fact that he's on a fishing expedition. 
WILLY So this is all exactly how he left it. 
TINA Yes. Browses a wall of framed photos: Crawford at crash sites, universities, engineering test-labs - awards, certificates, articles from industry publications lauding Crawford as the Go-To-Guy for investigating mechanical failures of aircraft. 
WILLY And he was - distraught. 
TINA He was drinking. The past few weeks. 
WILLY But he was working on this. He stands over unfinished Rube Goldberg device.   Tools laid out on the work table - meticulous, organized. 
WILLY All distraught and everything. It's not evidence. 
TINA Do you want coffee.    He said I should ask. Willy turns, a little rattled.    Beat. 
WILLY Tell him I said no thank you. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
The room where Jennifer and Nunally met. Cleaned-up now, anonymous, empty. Willy stands looking at it. There's nothing to see. He grimaces, nods - heads out, past the ASSISTANT MANAGER waiting in the doorway. 
INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 
As Willy comes out of the room - he slows, noticing the little gray plastic surveillance-camera-ball in the ceiling. 
WILLY How long do you keep the tapes? 
ASSISTANT MANAGER A month. Willy considers it.     He's got nothing else to try. 
WILLY Can I get a copy of October 9th? 
ASSISTANT MANAGER I'll have it for you Friday. 
WILLY I'm kind of under the gun here. 
ASSISTANT MANAGER We're short-staffed tonight and tomorrow. Beat.   Seeing Willy's confusion: 
ASSISTANT MANAGER Thanksgiving? Willy nods, trying to pretend he hasn't forgotten: 
WILLY Right.   Okay. 
INT. GARDNER HOUSE - DINING ROOM - LATER 
A faux-Tudor Hancock Park dining room.   Wealthy, but lived in. JUDGE LEWIS GARDNER, your basic Henry Fonda/Jimmy Stewart- type patriarch, carves a turkey at the head of a long table, wearing a worn and gravy-splattered apron. Platters circulate in both directions among Nikki's older siblings (BURTON and SANDRA), their spouses, their children. Willy sits next to Nikki, who is high-stylish despite the fact that she's dressed "casual." 
GARDNER White or dark, Willy? 
WILLY Anything is fine, your honor. 
GARDNER I'm off-duty, you can call me Lew. While Gardner piles turkey on a plate and passes it: 
WILLY So - is everyone in this family involved in the law? 
SANDRA Well, Nikki's not. 
Willy stands over crime scene photos and diagrams spread out on his narrow futon. "Walking the scene" again, on paper. The whole apartment is an array of law books, notes, exhibits, marked-up depositions. He's staring at evidence he's already stared at a hundred times. He grinds the palms of his hands into his eye sockets, a dull moan rising into a yell - - as he sweeps everything off his bed in a storm of paper - throwing books - tearing up printouts - pulling out drawers, emptying them, smashing them on the desk - - yelling in a frenzy until his throat is hoarse, his shabby garage apartment is trashed, and he's sitting, exhausted, in his chair. There's a knock on the door. Willy frowns, checking the clock: it's two-thirty a.m.   He goes to open it - - revealing Nunally, standing in the darkness, a haunted shadow of the boyish confident cop we met making love to Jennifer Crawford. 
NUNALLY It's done. In the tool shed: taped to the blade, inside the lawn-mower. Before Willy can say anything - Nunally walks away. Willy doesn't move.   Watching the tormented cop disappear down the alley. 
INT. DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - BULLPEN - THE NEXT MORNING 
Willy - in a clean suit and crisp suit, carrying his briefcase - hurries through, paying no attention to the SECRETARIES and OTHER D.D.A.s who watch like he's on his way to his own execution. At his office door, he gestures for Mona to come in with him. Surprised, she gets up - taking with her an envelope with a messenger-receipt taped to the front. 
INT. WILLY'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 
Mona watches Willy shut the door behind her. 
MONA You okay? 
WILLY Yeah.  Maybe. (Hesitates) Can I ask you to do something for me this morning? 
MONA Sure. 
WILLY Write down your cell number. (As she does) Once my trial is in session, wait outside. I might call - and just hang up. If I do, I want you to come into court and whisper to me that we got a tip about the murder weapon. 
MONA You found it? Beat. 
WILLY I haven't decided yet. Mona studies Willy - then accepts it's don't-ask-don't-tell, hands him her number. Willy nods, grateful. Turning for the door, she remembers the envelope in her hand. 
MONA Oh: this came for you. He takes it, and as she leaves, checks the return address: Wooton Sims. Willy grimaces, opens it. Inside are an airline ticket to Chicago - first class - and a handwritten note, on Wooton Sims stationery: We only win the favor of the Gods by making a sacrifice See you tomorrow - Nikki He stands in his empty office, considering the ticket and the note. 
INT. COURTHOUSE - CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 
Willy steps off the elevator, into a crowd of REPORTERS AND SPECTATORS outside the courtroom. He's startled for a moment: it's worse than he expected - the dense buzz of talk in the marble corridor and all the eyes tracking him like he's walking into an arena - a freakshow performer - - but he doesn't slow, ignoring the comments and questions, avoiding eye contact - - until he sees Nunally by the courtroom doors, his eyes fixed on Willy. Willy meets Nunally's gaze...moving on, giving back nothing. Nunally watches Willy disappear into the courtroom, stares at the closing doors - uncertain, on edge. Lost, no matter which way this goes. 
INT. COURTROOM - SOON AFTER 
Mr. Gifford, the Crawford's neighbor, is on the stand.   Willy questions him, standing by the Prosecution Table. Behind him, the court is standing-room-only. REPORTERS, SKETCH ARTISTS, SPECTATORS. Nunally, sitting near the front. Lobruto, standing at the back. Crawford writes intently on a legal pad, filling pages with dense scribble. 
WILLY So - between the time you heard the first gunshot and called 911, and the time of Mr. Crawford's arrest - you had the Crawford house in view? 
GIFFORD Yes. I was very concerned about Jennifer. She was a lovely woman. 
WILLY No one but Thomas Crawford came in or out? 
GIFFORD That's correct. 
WILLY Thank you, Mr. Gifford.    No further questions. 
JUDGE ROBINSON Mr. Crawford? Crawford glances up at the Judge. Then at Gifford, as if he's just noticed him up there. Beat. Without getting up: 
CRAWFORD Did you see the guy run out the back door? 
GIFFORD What..."guy"? 
CRAWFORD The other guy. The one who shot my wife. Did you see him run out the back of the house, carrying the gun? Willy closes his eyes.   Gifford grimaces. 
GIFFORD I couldn't see the back of the house. (Trying to salvage it:) I believe...the police went around back when they arrived. 
CRAWFORD No further questions. Willy immediately stands: 
WILLY Re-direct, your honor. But Crawford is standing too - with his handful of pages: 
CRAWFORD I've also written a motion to dismiss. 
WILLY Objection - I'm on re-direct! The Judge hesitates.   Both men standing. 
- into the echoing chaos of the corridor - trying to move in the crowd - - shoving through to where people are yelling and clustered around a figure lying on the floor. Willy pushes closer, until he catches glimpses of: Nunally.   Lying on the marble floor. His gun in his lifeless fingers.   Blood all over, from his head. Willy stops pushing. Won't let himself look away - the screams and commotion around him retreating into a numb blur. 
Then suddenly Willy looks up - as if he's been called - - to find Crawford, standing very still, in the crowd, on the other side of the body. Everyone else is moving, talking, gawking at the body or averting their eyes - - except Crawford.   He's looking straight at Willy. Pleased.   Triumphant. Willy stares into Crawford's eyes. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - LATE THAT NIGHT 
The life support system clicks and hisses and beeps. Jennifer is curled into a fetal position, despite the tubes and wires. Willy sits by her bed. Still in his suit from court, the jacket off, the tie loose. He's been there a while.   But now he speaks. 
WILLY Your husband said something...that I can't seem to shake loose of. He said I'm a winner. (Beat) And he's right. I can't lose. I can't stand people who lose. (Beat) I may have been working so hard to put some distance between me and...people like you - that maybe I messed up. I don't know if did anything wrong. Or what I should have done. I really don't know, any more...what I'm supposed to do. (Beat) But I feel like I let you down. Somehow in the...process. And if I did, I'm sorry. That's all. I just - I hope you...have...just, some... (Beat) Anyway. He feels stupid. Takes a breath.     Looking at her pale, drawn, comatose face. He stands, goes to get his jacket, lying folded on a table by the door. Pulls it on, settles the shoulders, tugs at his cuffs. Gets his briefcase. 
He goes to the door, and as he opens it - he looks back. Freezes. Jennifer's eyes are wide open. She's staring at him.   Willy stands, breathless, watching her. 
INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - LATER 
Sliding glass doors suck open, Willy walks with the Resident from the other night: 
WILLY She was looking at me. 
RESIDENT Yeah, I understand - 
WILLY No, she was looking at me. 
CLOSE UP - JENNIFER'S EYEBALL A beam of light slides across it. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
The Resident tucks his flashlight in a pocket, draws a pin from his lapel. Gently sticks Jennifer's cheek. Willy winces, watching. 
WILLY She's reacting. The Resident ignores him. Pricks her forehead - her chin - her big toe. Each time she twitches. He runs his thumb along the sole of Jennifer's bare foot. It arches up. 
WILLY You see? 
RESIDENT The normal reflex goes downward.   Up indicates brain trauma. 
WILLY She's in there. She was looking at me. 
The Resident sighs.   Sympathetic, but plain: 
RESIDENT Sometimes we have to tape their eyes shut. They all move - they make sounds, they twitch. You think they're dreaming. But they're not. It's just what's left of the system, sending broken signals. 
WILLY Can we do other tests? Like an M.R.I. or something? And I want a coma specialist to see her. 
RESIDENT You're not authorized to order tes- 
WILLY I'll get you authorization.      First thing tomorrow. The Resident studies Willy.   Reluctantly: 
RESIDENT You get the paperwork, I'll do what I can. Willy nods, grateful. As the Resident heads out, Willy sits by Jennifer's bed - protective, intent. 
INT. HOSPITAL - LOBBY - THE NEXT MORNING 
Crawford comes in through the lobby: rested, well-dressed.   A free man. He slows, surprised - - seeing Willy come off the elevators. Willy hasn't left Jennifer's bedside. He's in the same suit and carrying his briefcase from the courthouse. 
CRAWFORD Mr. Slocum. 
WILLY Just...visiting. 
CRAWFORD This isn't like you at all. 
WILLY No? 
CRAWFORD You haven't got anything to gain. 
WILLY The point?! Willy stares. Because she's drawn a line in the sand. One he already crossed, without truly understanding...and now he's standing out there alone - feeling the sand slither away under his feet. 
WILLY This man is going to kill his wife. 
NIKKI Yeah. (Beat) What does that have to do with Wooton Sims? Willy just breathes.   Vulnerable like we have never seen him before. He looks across the big reception area, at Wooton and the team of associates. Some look away. 
NIKKI I warned you. 
WILLY No, this is insane. 
NIKKI It's what it is. 
Ding!   The elevator.    Nikki grimaces, frustrated - and sad: 
NIKKI I warned you. She starts for the elevators, Willy following - 
WILLY You're not really just gonna let this happen, are you?! 
NIKKI Oh I'm supposed to lose my job over your problems?! 
WILLY My problems?! Wait a second - this is not about my anything any more - Willy grabs Nikki's arm to stop her, turn her around - and she shoves him away, hard, tears welling in her eyes - - Willy letting her go - as the Receptionist quietly calls for help - - and Nikki hurries into the waiting elevator.     The Associate holding the doors lets them go. 
WILLY This is about taking a couple of goddamn weeks off to try and save a woman's life! The doors begin to close. Willy stands facing the cluster of lawyers in expensive suits, their expressions ranging from pity to contempt - - except Nikki, whose eyes are full of shame and guilt and defensive anger. As the doors shut across them. Willy doesn't move.     Confused, humiliated, frustrated. He turns when a bunch of OTHER LAWYERS emerge from the offices, ready to act as bouncers. People gawk from behind the glass doors. Beat.   Willy holds up his palms. 
WILLY Don't bother.     I got it. 
He bangs open the paddle-sign on the stairway door, setting off the fire alarms as he stalks out. 
INT. WOOTON SIMS - BUILDING STAIRWAY - SOON AFTER 
Willy runs down the stairs furiously - - the clanging alarm, several floors above now, a little fainter. He suddenly stops - clinging to the railing, bent over.    He sways, dizzy, gasping - - backs up until he's against the concrete wall. Presses himself against. Listening to his own ragged breathing. Scared out of his mind. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DUSK 
Crawford stands by the bed, glancing over a set of forms on a metal clipboard. DR. LUNT, a senior neurologist, and a HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATOR wait. The machines hiss and click, keeping Jennifer alive. Crawford signs the forms, expressionless. 
EXT. COURTHOUSE - THE SAME TIME 
Willy's walking alongside Judge Robinson, as they leave the building. The Judge is wearing his "civilian clothes." 
JUDGE ROBINSON What do the doctors say? 
WILLY People wake up out of these things. 
JUDGE ROBINSON What did the doctors say, Mr. Slocum? 
WILLY They said...there's no way to really know. I'm trying to get them to run more tests - but I was there, and I'm telling you. 
JUDGE ROBINSON I'm sorry. I have no probable cause to issue a court order against Mr. Crawford - and he's protected agai- 
WILLY 
WHAT ABOUT HIS WIFE?!   WHAT'S 
PROTECTING HER?! The Judge stops - giving Willy a hard eye: I'm sympathetic, but yelling at me is not a smart approach. Willy looks at the Judge a second - hapless, frustrated, scared - then nods and shakes his head and turns away - hurrying off through the homeward-bound crowds. The Judge watches him go.   Grimaces. 
INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - KITCHEN - THAT EVENING 
Crawford is carefully preparing an elegant, solitary meal. Music plays on his state-of-the-art sound system. He stops, noticing a pair of Jennifer's reading glasses, folded up by a note-pad and pen next to the telephone. He picks them up. Stylish, feminine. He goes to the trash, steps on the pedal to flip open the lid, and drops the glasses in. Goes back to cooking. 
INT. LOBRUTO HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT 
Willy brakes as he drives around a corner and sees a DRIVER wrangling with the BOOTH GUY. He grimaces, looks around - - backs up, tires squealing, heading for another exit. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Dr. Lunt stands by Jennifer's bed, supervising the Nurse and an Orderly as they prepare her. 
INT. HOSPITAL - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS 
Crawford walks in, goes toward the elevators. 
INT. WILLY'S CAR - INTERSECTION - CONTINUOUS 
He floors it, racing under a light going red - narrowly misses getting broad-sided. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Dr. Lunt looks up from making notes on Jennifer's chart, as Crawford enters the room. 
EXT. EMERGENCY ROOM ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS 
Willy pulls into a NO PARKING zone and jumps out, papers in hand - tossing the keys to an ORDERLY smoking a cigarette - 
WILLY Move it if you need to! - running through the automatic doors. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Standing beside Dr. Lunt, Crawford watches, expressionless - - as the Nurse and the Orderly work, efficient and silent, disconnecting the oxygen tubes, unplugging the monitor - 
INT. HOSPITAL LOBBY - SOON AFTER 
Willy dodges people, coming to the elevators - which open. Too crowded. 
INT. HOSPITAL STAIRWAY - SOON AFTER 
Willy gasps a little as he hurries up the stairs - 
INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - SOON AFTER 
- comes out of the fire stairs, hurrying toward I.C.U. - 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
- and into Jennifer's room, where he stops.     Shocked. The bed is being stripped, the equipment rolled out. Willy stares, breathless, overwhelmed. 
NURSE You just missed her. 
WILLY What? 
NURSE She just went on up. Willy struggles to control his emotions.     Looks down. 
WILLY How long ago...did she die? 
NURSE What? (Beat) The roof. (Beat) 
(MORE) 
NURSE (cont'd) Medevac transfer. Out to a long-term care facility up in Santa Barbara. They just left, you can probably still catch 'em. Willy tries to understand her.   With growing horror. 
WILLY He's - moving her by helicopter? 
NURSE Nothing but the best. We hear the surge of a jet engine - - as Willy runs out of the room. 
WILLY He is!   You have to get us DOWN! 
PILOT Get back in your goddamn seat! 
CRAWFORD Willy, I'm not doing anything. Everyone can see that. 
WILLY I'm TELLING you, we have to TURN BACK! He's DOING SOMETH- An alarm begins to shriek - on the ventilator. Everyone turns as the Med Tech hastily kneels next to it - 
WILLY What's happening?! 
MED TECH I don't know - I'm - there's a - malfunction - - Willy whips around to look at Crawford, with fury in his glare: oh, you bastard. Crawford almost smiles. 
The Med Tech is flipping switches, checking wires - 
MED TECH I can't do anything with this, up here. The Pilot turns - steeply, Willy falling over, the Med Tech's supplies spilling - as the Med Tech hastily removes Jennifer's breathing tube and prepares to begin C.P.R. - 
CRAWFORD She's D.N.R. The Med Tech looks up - startled.     Confused. 
WILLY What is it? 
CRAWFORD Check. Willy watches, wide-eyed, as the Med Tech grabs up his paperwork, searching it - 
WILLY What? The Med Tech looks up at Willy, scared. 
MED TECH She's Do Not Resuscitate. Willy turns on Crawford.   He shrugs. 
CRAWFORD It's in her living will. The Med Tech looks at Willy, paralyzed. 
MED TECH She's D.N.R.    She signed it. 
WILLY There's a restraining order - she's protected - I'm authorizing you to do it! The Med Tech turns to Crawford, uncertain - 
CRAWFORD No extraordinary measures. (Turns to Willy) Unless your court order specifies 
(MORE) 
CRAWFORD (cont'd) contravening her living will. But I don't think it would. I think you got one that forbids me from disconn- Willy throws himself at Crawford - attacking him, as the Med Tech grabs him, drags him back - 
PILOT 
WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON BACK THERE?! - the Med Tech holding Willy down on the floor by Jennifer's stretcher - Willy struggles furiously - 
WILLY Wait!    WAIT - LOOK! Willy is pointing at Jennifer - shocked - - as the Med Tech lets him up and they kneel by her, the Med Tech taking her pulse - Willy, staring down at her, intent: She's breathing. 
WILLY Yes.     Yes. Willy whirls around to Crawford.        Who's frowning. 
WILLY You messed up. With all your plans and games. Willy turns back to Jennifer. Delicately strokes the side of her face. Her eyes flutter open - 
WILLY Shhhh.    It's okay.       It's all right. - she stares into Willy's eyes. He takes her hand.        Silent awe in her eyes. Yearning. Fear. 
WILLY You're gonna be okay? She squeezes his hand.      Very weakly. Crawford is looking daggers: die, bitch. Jennifer's eyes - fixed on Willy - roll back.        She fights it. 
WILLY Jennifer?       Hang on. Something sad in her wordless gaze.        As it starts to fade. 
WILLY Jennifer?!     JENNIFER?! She's slipping. Her eyes gone empty.        Her hand becoming lifeless in his. 
WILLY No.     Come on, Jennifer.    Fight back. Tears well up in Willy's eyes, but he struggles against them - feeling Crawford's gaze, refusing him the satisfaction. 
WILLY Don't let go. But she's gone. He stares down. Mourning her. Letting his grief slowly burn into rage. He gently reaches up and closes her eyes. Then he looks up at Crawford, who smiles sympathetically. 
CRAWFORD You pushed it, Willy. We didn't have to be here. (Beat) But now you're my witness. You saw: I didn't touch anything, I didn't do anything. The machine went down. Anybody asks - you'll have to tell them. What you saw. (Beat) That's really kind of perfect, isn't it? Willy stares into his eyes. Cold.        Then he looks away.    Out the window, into the sun-glare. 
WILLY You don't want to know. 
LOBRUTO Willy, you can't - 
WILLY I don't work for you. (Beat) Right? Beat. Lobruto sighs, as Willy nods and turns to start back to the garage. With work to do. 
LOBRUTO Don't do anything crazy. 
WILLY What else have we got left? Willy disappears inside. 
INT. S.I.D. LAB - LATER 
End of the day. Marchand pulls on his coat, shuts down his computer. He turns to go - - Willy is standing in his doorway. 
WILLY I need a favor. 
INT. POLICE EVIDENCE WAREHOUSE - SOON AFTER 
Willy follows an EVIDENCE CLERK along an aisle between floor- to-ceiling steel shelves of boxes marked with case numbers. 
CRAWFORD These are from that thing at the courthouse, right? 
WILLY Uh-huh. The Clerk stops, checking a number against a slip of paper in his hand - pulls down a box for Willy. 
INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - THAT NIGHT 
Crawford is building a new Rube Goldberg device, tools and parts laid out precisely on a table. Eyes enlarged by the glasses, he silently connects two tiny pieces of metal - 
- when a French door suddenly implodes, a metal lawn chair hurled in from the backyard smashing through it. Crawford stands, taking off the glasses - - as Willy walks in over the broken glass, carrying Nunally's gun. 
CRAWFORD Very dramatic. Willy crosses the room to the alarm panel on the wall. 
WILLY You ain't seen nothin' yet. He presses the POLICE emergency button, then turns to Crawford. 
WILLY I want the gun. 
CRAWFORD Why?   You've already got one. 
WILLY I want the gun you shot your wife with. Now. Crawford doesn't move. Willy raises his gun, points it at Crawford's face. 
WILLY One way or another, I'm going to see to it you receive justice tonight. Crawford studies Willy. 
CRAWFORD You're serious, aren't you. 
WILLY Oh, yes. 
CRAWFORD (A smile dawning) Willy. You got religion, didn't you?! You care. That's...priceless. He laughs.   Willy keeps the gun aimed at him. 
CRAWFORD No, it's very sweet. Really. 
WILLY Gonna be a whole lot less funny in about a minute. Crawford nods.    Considering the game.   Unruffled. 
CRAWFORD Getting it like this: is that going to hold up in court? 
WILLY I don't work for the D.A. any more. I'm just a guy who broke into your house. When the police arrest me - they'll inventory anything in my possession. If that happens to be crucial evidence in another case, well: some prosecutor just got lucky. Silence. Crawford studies Willy's eyes, over the muzzle of the gun between them. 
CRAWFORD It takes a very special kind of person to look right into someone's eyes and pull the trigger. It takes a unique kind of strength. 
WILLY I guess you'd know that. 
CRAWFORD Yes.    I would. Willy cocks the gun. Crawford shakes his head.    Eyes on Willy. 
