FRANKENSTEIN 
Written by 
Steph Lady & Frank Darabont 
From the novel by 
Mary W. Shelley 
2ND REVISED DRAFT 
February 8, 1993 
TITLES UNFOLD IN BLACKNESS as we are lulled by the distant flute-like sounds of a recorder. Overall the effect is mournful and haunting, elegant and serene... 
...and we CRASH TO: 
EXT - BARENTS SEA - NIGHT 
...a storm of inconceivable force and violence. Merciless arctic winds whip the sea in a frenzy of thirty-foot swells. 
This is the last place in God's creation that any human being should be. And yet... 
...the prow of a three-masted ship rises massively before us, looming from the darkness and chaos. it crashes upward through a swell and slams back down again, plunging nose- first into the trough. The sails on the forward mast are still deployed. It's insane; in this weather they should be stowed (as is already the case with masts 2 and 3). 
Hurtling toward us. Rising and falling. Thundering through the swells. And as she sweeps past CAMERA within a seeming hairbreadth, we PAN with the ship and find ourselves... 
EXT - SHIP - NIGHT 
...aboard the "Alexander Nevsky," along for the ride whether we like it or not. There are men all around us, dark screaming FIGURES glimpsed and half-glimpsed, heavy oilskin clothes flapping in the gale. A GROUP OF MEN are in a life-or-death tug of war 
WALTON PULL, YOU BASTARDS! PULL! 
Riiiiippp! All eyes turn skyward as the uppermost sail tears loose, the heavy canvas shredding away in huge billowing tatters. The jib-arm wrenches free and plummets toward us, trailing rope and fabric. The men dive aside as the jib smashes into the deck like an exploding bomb. Splintered shards of wood cartwheel through the air like shrapnel. 
Walton catches a glancing blow to the head and slams face- down on the pitching deck. 
GRIGORI, the first mate, scrambles to Walton's aid. Walton shoves him off, pushes painfully to his knees. LIGHTNING throws his face into a stark relief map of pain and fury: blood is streaming from his hairline, freezing in his eyes, staining his teeth. He gazes up at the mainsail, still intact and straining against the wind. We hear a huge CRACK! 
The base of the mast is starting to give. 
WALTON Cut the damn rigging free before we lose the mast! 
Long-handled axes are grabbed from their mounts. Frantic men begin hacking at the ropes. Walton snatches an axe from a passing crewman and elbows his way to the front. He attacks a guy-rope with primal fury, CAMERA rising and falling with the motion of his axe. Suddenly, a chilling cry from high above: 
LOOKOUT (O.S.) IIIICEBEEEEERG! 
THE CROW'S NEST (MAST #2) 
The LOOKOUT is lashed to the mast by means of a safety rope knotted at the chest. He points ahead. 
WALTON and the others spin to look as A PANORAMIC SHOT OF THE BARENTS SEA reveals a magnificent vista of storming fury. The ship is heading into an enormous field of icebergs dotting the ocean like boulders in a quarry, The Nevsky is plying these waters like a man running pell-mell through a mine field. 
An iceberg passes massively and unexpectedly in the foreground, rumbling within yards of the camera, wiping us into darkness... 
EXT - NEVSKY - NIGHT 
...and we wipe from darkness as a flapping piece of canvas billows away to reveal 'Walton and the crew, gazing in breathless horror as an iceberg looms from the gale before them like a ghostly white mountain. Walton finds his voice: 
WALTON HARD TO PORT! 
THE PILOT fights to turn the wheel. Men rush to his aid, throw their backs into it, straining to the limit. The wheel is grudging, fighting them every inch of the way. 
PUSH IN on Walton and the crew: 
GRIGORI It's going to ram us. 
WALTON It wouldn't dare. 
THE CROW'S NEST (MAST #2) 
The lookout fumbles under his coat, grabs the rosary around his neck, clutches the crucifix tightly in both hands. Face white with terror. Breath coming in ragged gasps. 
SHIP'S POV 
Crashing through the swells. Rising and falling. Tilting the world and the audience on its ear. iceberg looming.  For a brief moment we seem to be veering past. But then we swing back in a final, churning, vertiginous plunge... 
...and smack the ice. 
VARIOUS QUICK-CUT ANGLES 
God just hit the ship with an anvil. Mast #1 snaps at the base with a thunderous CRACK and begins to topple in a symphony of shattering wood and tangled rigging... 
The lookout on mast #2 is vaulted through the railing of the crow's nest, screaming through the air, arms and legs windmilling as he plummets head-first toward the deck below... 
And is jerked to an abrupt stop by the safety line around his chest, We hear another horrible CRACK... the sound of his back breaking... 
YOUNG SAILOR Is it breaking up? 
OLD SAILOR Just dancing on the current. It'll freeze even tighter come next wind. 
CAMERA DRIFTS past to another group: 
SAILOR #4 It was a polar bear. That's what I say. 
SAILOR #5 Say all you want, but you weren't there. It left human tracks. 
SAILOR #6 No man could tear those dogs apart. 
SAILOR #5 No human. We've roused a demon from the ice. 
CLANG-CLANG! The men spin. A SAILOR on starboard has rung the signal bell. The men race over, crowding the gunwale. 
SAILOR Something. In the mist. 
Walton appears from his cabin and crowds his way to the front, rifle aimed at the sky. The men wait. Holding their breath. Scanning the darkness. 
AN APPARITION looms eerily from the mist on a creaking floe of ice, silhouetted by the shifting light of the borealis. The figure's pose is uncanny and weird: neither standing nor kneeling, but something in between, arm dangling at its side and lolling slowly with the motion of the current. 
YOUNG SAILOR It's the demon! Shoot while you've a chance! 
The Pilot lights the kerosene wick of a reflector box spotlight and swings it around. The beam seeks out the specter and pins it in a dim circle of light... revealing a man collapsed on a dog sled, lashed to tiller upright stanchions with frozen leather straps, Dead dogs lie in icy heaps around him. 
EXT - NEVSKY - NIGHT 
The men venture onto the shifting ice with lanterns raised. 
Grappling lines are unslung and thrown, the ice floe snagged. Gaffs reach out, drawing it closer. Men clasp arms, forming a human chain. Grigori is the first to reach the motionless figure on the dog sled. 
WALTON Dead? 
Grigori cautiously eases his hand into the darkness of the furred hood to search the neck for a pulse... 
...and the figure scares the shit out of him. With a convulsive shudder and a gasping intake of breath, the hood rises up, revealing a haggard face tortured white with frost, beard frozen solid, eyes blazingly intelligent and aware. Walton finds himself in an extended beat of eye contact with VICTOR FRANKENSTEIN. 
EXT - NEVSKY - ON DECK - NIGHT 
A HOWLING WIND has kicked up, pelting the huddled sentries with sleet. CAMERA TRACKS past, moving steadily toward the dimly-glowing window of Walton's cabin... 
INT - WALTON'S CABIN - NIGHT 
...where we find Walton and Grigori in tense discussion: 
GRIGORI Captain, I implore you. The men are frightened and angry. They want your assurance. 
WALTON They knew the risks when they signed on. I've come too far to turn back now. 
GRIGORI Then you run the danger of pushing them to mutiny. 
Walton pulls a pistol from his drawer and slams it flat on the table before him. 
WALTON (low, tight) Let them try. 
Grigori is taken aback. He hears a shifting of blankets and glances to the captain's bed. Walton follows his look. 
Frankenstein has awakened and is watching them. 
Grigori exits, uneasy under Frankenstein's gaze. Walton rises, retrieves a pot from the stove. 
WALTON You're awake. I've prepared some broth. It'll help restore you. 
VICTOR (hoarse, faltering) I'm... dying. 
Victor draws a hand from under the blanket and holds it before his face. Fingers skeletal and black. 
VICTOR Frostbite. Gangrene. A simple diagnosis. 
WALTON Are you a physician? 
VICTOR (faint smile) How is it you come to be here? 
WALTON There's a startling question, coming from you. (beat) I'm captain of this ship. We sailed from Archangel a month ago, seeking a passage to the North Pole. 
VICTOR Ah. An explorer. 
WALTON Would-be. I'm plagued with my share of difficulties just at the moment. 
VICTOR I heard. 
WALTON I can't say I blame them. We're trapped in this ice and bedeviled by some sort of... creature. 
VICTOR Creature? A... human like creature? 
WALTON (stunned) You know of it? 
ELIZABETH Are you sure it can't hurt us? 
VICTOR Nothing can. Not ever. 
She seeks his hand. Fingers clasp. Comfort and strength. 
TILT UP to the skylight. Rain drumming the glass... 
INT - MANSION - GRAND BALLROOM - DAY 
Victor and Elizabeth are learning to waltz, their movements stiff and awkward, childlike. MRS. MORITZ is at the harpsichord. Justine sits with her dolly, watching. 
MRS. MORITZ You must lead, Victor. The lady will always look to you for guidance, so your steps must be sure and strong... 
VICTOR Mrs. Moritz. 
MRS. MORITZ ...aaand, one-two-three, one-two- three, twirl-two-three... 
JUSTINE Mama, can I dance with Victor? 
MRS. MORITZ Nonsense, Justine. Hush. And now a sweeping arc about the room! one- two-three, twirl-two-three. 
Victor and Elizabeth gamely work their way across the vast room, tripping on each other's toes. They pass within inches of CAMERA, bodies WIPING FRAME... 
INT - GRAND BALLROOM - DAY (TEN YEARS LATER) 
...and they sweep from before our eyes, waltzing away from camera to reveal Victor now 17, intense and handsome as he approaches manhood. Elizabeth is a blossoming and graceful beauty at 16. Mrs. Moritz is still conducting the lessons. 
MRS. MORITZ ...one-two-three, twirl-two-three... Excellent! You'll be the envy of all the young ladies and gentlemen! 
They're certainly the envy of Justine, who gazes at Victor as he sweeps Elizabeth around the room in his arms. She isn't concentrating and fumbles on the keyboard. Her mother throws her a look of reproval: 
MRS. MORITZ Justine. Surely you can maintain better time than that. 
JUSTINE Yes, Mama. 
Flustered, she puts her attention back on the keyboard as Victor and Elizabeth keep dancing, swirling fluidly about the room, their attention only on each other. 
INT - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT 
A skylight above us. A storm is raging, rain drumming the glass. We hear SCREAMING in the house. TILT DOWN to Victor perched at the edge of a settee, seething with tension. 
Waiting. Elizabeth is with him. She squeezes his arm, trying to reassure him. 
ELIZABETH She'll be all right. 
Another SCREAM rips down the hallway. Justine comes scurrying up the stairs, about to enter his parent's room with a fresh load of sheets. Victor lunges to his feet and intercepts, trying to push past her, but finds the doorway implacably blocked by Mrs. Moritz. 
MRS. MORITZ You can do nothing here. Wait downstairs. 
He can see his mother in the dim kerosene light, writhing and screaming on the bed, belly swollen and distended. His father, sleeves rolled up, works feverishly to save her. 
VICTOR Mother? 
FATHER Victor, do as you're told! 
Justine glances at Victor, longing to comfort him. She squeezes past into the room. The door slams in his face. He turns to Elizabeth, eyes brimming with terror... 
INT - PARENTS' BEDROOM - NIGHT 
...as his mother falls back on the sweat-soaked sheets, blowing air like a bellows, trying to give birth... 
EXT - MANSION - NIGHT 
...while her SCREAMS mingle with the howling of the wind, the stump of the long-dead oak tree pokes from the earth in the foreground like a gravestone, lashed by the rain. 
INT - DOWNSTAIRS PARLOR - NIGHT 
VICTOR stares out the window at the raging storm. Elizabeth appears at his side. He doesn't look at her. 
VICTOR As a boy, I stood at this window and watched God destroy our tree. 
b.g. screaming stops, Victor and Elizabeth turn, gazing up the grand staircase. The sudden silence is even more frightening. The FAINT CRY of a newborn infant drifts down A door opens upstairs, throwing a spill of light. Victor's father appears in silhouette, comes down the stairs toward them. He pauses halfway down, unable to continue. 
VICTOR Father? 
A FLASH OF LIGHTNING floods the room, revealing Victor's father on the staircase. Face haggard. Eyes hollow. Clothes spattered with blood. Hands glistening wetly red. 
ELIZABETH Oh God. The blood. 
Father sits down shakily on a step. Victor and Elizabeth race up the stairs and pause before him. 
FATHER I did everything I could. 
Victor lets out a sob of anguish. Elizabeth begins to cry. 
Father gathers them into his arms. 
The music ends amidst applause. The men bow to the ladies, the ladies curtsy in return. Victor escorts Elizabeth off the dance floor. Elizabeth fans herself, flushed and happy. 
JUSTINE You dance so beautifully together. 
ELIZABETH And you look so lovely. 
They share a sisterly hug and a radiant smile. The orchestra recommences. The music is lush. Justine looks hopefully to Victor, keeping her tone light: 
JUSTINE Victor? Spare me one dance? 
Elizabeth catches Victor's eye. 
ELIZABETH Go on, ask her. Please. I'm quite out of breath. 
Victor gallantly offers his arm. Justine takes it, lighting up as he escorts her onto the dance floor ... 
...and they begin to dance. She's glowing. This is a big moment for her. But they've hardly begun, when... 
...ting-ting-ting, Victor's father is tapping a champagne glass with a knife. The dancers stop. The orchestra falls silent. Justine hides her disappointment as servants pass among the guests with glasses of champagne. 
FATHER My friends, fatherly pride won't allow this occasion to pass without my raising a toast. 
Shouts of assent. Victor is grabbed by his friends and dragged forward, a glass of champagne shoved in his hands. 
FATHER To Victor. My son. Who read every medical book in my library by age thirteen... and then re-read them, which seemed excessive even to me. (the guests ROAR with laughter) Drape yourself in glory, my boy. Study well.  When you return, you return a man of medicine. I will then be honored to call you "colleague." 
VICTOR But never your equal. 
FATHER No. You'll surpass me. 
Applause and roars of approval. The drinks are tossed back. 
Victor is jostled with backslaps and handshakes. 
EXT - MANSION - NIGHT 
Music and warm light spill from the windows. A COUPLE eases through a French door and come racing across the lawn, giggling and hushing each other. They take refuge under a tree, revealing their faces to the moonlight: Victor and Elizabeth. She leans against the trunk to catch her breath. 
ELIZABETH Smell the air. Wonderful. 
VICTOR Quite a send-off, isn't it? 
ELIZABETH Father's so proud. 
VICTOR And you? 
ELIZABETH Prouder still. You'll be the handsomest student there. 
VICTOR I'll have to do better than that. 
ELIZABETH You will. (searches his eyes) What do you want, Victor? 
VICTOR To be the best there ever was. To push our knowledge beyond our dreams... to eradicate disease and pestilence... to purge mankind of ignorance and fear... 
He's so serious, she can't help laugh. 
VICTOR I'm not mad. 
She smiles, smoothes a lock of hair gently off his forehead. 
ELIZABETH No. Just very earnest. And very dear. 
An extended moment. Unspoken words flowing between them. 
Victor leans forward and kisses her. Her eyes widen slightly. So do his. Shared excitement, gentle and sexy beyond belief. They pause, draw back, searching each other's eyes. He whispers: 
VICTOR I've loved you all my life 
ELIZABETH All my life I've known. 
They kiss again. A breath. A shiver. 
VICTOR This feels... incestuous. 
ELIZABETH Is that what makes it so delicious? 
She brushes her lips against his. Gentle as a sigh. 
ELIZABETH Brother and sister still? 
VICTOR I wish to be your husband. 
ELIZABETH I wish to be your wife. 
VICTOR Then come with me to Ingolstadt. Marry me now. 
ELIZABETH If only I could. But one of us must stay. Father's not strong. Willie's just a child. Who can look after them in your absence? Who can run the estate? 
PROFESSOR KREMPE, a squat little man, paces before the packed galleries of eager young STUDENTS. 
KREMPE In science, the letter of fact is the letter of law. Our pursuit is as dogmatic as any religious precept. Think of yourselves as disciples of a strict and hallowed sect. Someday you may be priests... but only if you learn the scripture chapter and verse. (off their laughter) Any questions? 
VICTOR (hand shoots up) But surely, Professor, you don't intend we disregard the more... philosophical works. 
KREMPE Philosophical? 
VICTOR Those which stir the imagination as well as the intellect. Paracelsus, for one. 
This reference is lost on all but a few. At the faculty table: PROFESSOR WALDMAN peers up at Victor, adjusting the glasses on his nose. Up among the students: HENRY CLERVAL leans out and shoots an amused look in Victor's direction. 
SCHILLER catches Henry's look and rolls his eyes. 
KREMPE Paracelsus? 
VICTOR Or Albertus Magnus. Cornelius Agrippa... 
KREMPE What is your name? 
VICTOR Victor Frankenstein, sir. (no response) Of geneva. 
KREMPE Of Geneva. (beat) Tell me, Mr. Frankenstein of Geneva. Do you wish to study medicine? Or mysticism? 
Titters sweep the room. Krempe remains staunchly unamused: 
KREMPE Those of you unfamiliar with Mr. Frankenstein's suggested reading list... thankfully, that would be most of you... would be well advised to avoid it. Here at Ingolstadt, we concern ourselves with immutable reality... (specific to Victor) ...not the ravings of lunatics and alchemists hundreds of years in their graves. Understood? 
Victor is flushed and humiliated. Held like to say more, but wisely swallows his anger and nods. 
KREMPE I am relieved. Are there any relevant questions? (there are none) Lecture hall dismissed. 
EXT - UNIVERSITY - DAY 
Victor exits wearing a distinctive black greatcoat, fuming over the exchange with Krempe. He strides across the lawn, eyes fixed straight ahead. 
Henry Clerval races up behind him and falls casually in step. Victor glances over. Henry nods pleasantly, as if held been there all along. Victor responds with a curt nod and resumes his straight-ahead demeanor. They walk in silence, just two guys heading in the same direction. 
Henry can't help it; he snickers loudly to himself. Victor shoots him a sharp look. Henry's smirk vanishes, replaced with blank innocence. Did somebody snicker? 
HENRY I was just clearing my throat. 
VICTOR Very well then. 
They continue walking. Silence thick. Finally: 
HENRY You know, you're quite mad. 
Victor stops. Turns. 
VICTOR (low, measured) I am not mad. 
HENRY (matching Victor's tone) As a march hare. 
Henry's expression betrays nothing... but perhaps there's a trace of amusement in his eyes? 
VICTOR Are you having me on? 
HENRY Of course I am. It pays to humor the insane. 
Beat. Victor smiles. Henry grins, offers his hand. Takes it. 
HENRY Henry Clerval. 
VICTOR Victor, Victor Frankenstein. 
HENRY I know. You have a way of making an impression. 
INT - GASTHOF - DUSK 
The tavern is packed with students and noise. Beer and food served at a frantic pace. We find Victor and Henry at a small table, tearing into sausages and cheese. 
VICTOR Do you really think I'm mad? 
HENRY Come now. Magnus? Agrippa? Next thing you know, you'll be teaching toadstools to speak. 
Schiller enters with FRIENDS. They pause at Victor's table 
SCHILLER If it isn't the sorcerer. Found yourself an apprentice? 
VICTOR I'm afraid I rejected his application. He merely dabbles. 
HENRY Dilettantes need not apply. What about you? Schiller, isn't it? 
SCHILLER Von Schiller. I'm interested in real medicine. Treating the sick. 
HENRY Really? I myself find sick people rather revolting. (off their looks) I'm here to secure my degree with a minimum of fuss and hard work that I might settle into a life of privilege treating rich old ladies with gout and dallying with their daughters. 
Waldman paints with an extraordinarily delicate touch, jeweler's glasses riding low on his nose, eyes unnaturally large behind the magnifying lenses. Victor sits patiently for the portrait, suffused with daylight. 
Henry leans in over Waldman's shoulder, studying the portrait. Waldman stiffens a bit, aware of his presence. He clearly hates people looking over his shoulder. 
HENRY (deadpan) Shouldn't the nose be above the mouth? 
Waldman heaves a long-suffering sigh. He abruptly jabs his brush at Henry's nose, daubing it with paint. Dignity upheld he resumes his careful work as Victor laughs. 
INT - WALDMAN'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Victor, Waldman, and Henry are gathered around the remains of a meal, laughing uproariously, enjoying one another's company. Cigars are lit, wine is flowing. Conversation is fast and loose, intense and passionate: 
WALDMAN I'm quite serious. Look at all the charity and clinic work we do. Up until thirty years ago, the concept of vaccine was unheard of. 
HENRY You're saying all disease will eventually be eradicated? 
WALDMAN I'm convinced. Not by treating symptoms, but by diving nature's most jealously-guarded secrets. 
HENRY (turning serious) Do you foresee this happening in our lifetimes? 
WALDMAN No. But someday. 
HENRY Thank goodness. We'd be out of work. 
A HOWL OF OUTRAGE AND LAUGHTER. Victor flings his napkin in Henry's face. 
VICTOR Only you would think of that! 
HENRY (laughing) Somebody has to! 
Victor raises his wine glass. The others join. A toast. 
VICTOR I tell you what we need, my friends. Forget the symptoms and diseases. What we need is a vaccine for death itself. 
WALDMAN (laughter) Oh, now you have gone too far. There's only one God, Victor. 
HENRY (raises his glass) And here's to Him. Everything in moderation, Frankenstein. 
VICTOR (grins) Nothing in moderation, Clerval. 
INT - POOR HOUSE - DAY 
CAMERA, TRACKS the gritty reality of a big-city poor house, crammed with society's dregs: the poor, the uneducated, wailing babies, stampeding children. Absolutely jangling with noise and confusion... loud and stifling... people getting eye-ear-nose-throat exams... being vaccinated... 
The "doctors" in attendance are all Ingolstadt STUDENTS performing community service, none of whom look like they're enjoying it. Schiller looks particularly harried. We find Victor and Henry giving out vaccinations. They keep glancing over their shoulders at Waldman as he gets further embroiled in a no-win argument with a wiry, ferret-faced MAN terrified about getting his vaccination: 
MAN Yer not stickin' it in me! Got pox in it, I hear tell! 
FAT WOMAN Pox? They givin' us pox? 
Ripples of panic spread. Waldman is as tense and clipped as we've ever seen him, valiantly trying to control his temper amidst the surrounding cacophony and ad-lib dialogue: 
WALDMAN No, it's not pox, it's a vaccine... 
FAT WOMAN Vaca-what? 
WALDMAN ...vaccine, from the Latin vacca, meaning cow (glances at her girth) ...or vaccinia, meaning cowpox... 
MAN I told you there was pox in it! 
WALDMAN ...no, no, cowpox in a minute quantity, perfectly harmless, gives you a natural immunity to small ox, which is the point of this whole bloody exercise... 
Victor and Henry are pausing work. Concerned. Drifting closer. The ferret-faced man is cornered. 
MAN You doctors kill people! I don' care what you say, you ain't stickin' it in me! 
WALDMAN I most assuredly am! It prevents disease and it's the law! Why am I explaining myself? Somebody restrain this damn fool! 
It happens this fast: There's an innocuous blur of motion as the man seems to tap Waldman lightly in the stomach, then he darts away, slamming past Victor and Henry. Victor looks after him running away, hears something clatter to the floor. He glances down. A thin knife. Victor looks to Waldman. Puzzled. It still hasn't really dawned. 
Waldman turns to them, face drained of color, hand pressed to his sternum, lips tight. He looks more annoyed than anything else. He exhales slowly. 
HENRY Professor? 
WALDMAN (softly) Oh God. 
That's when the blood starts pumping through his fingers. They catch him as he collapses, cradling him as he sprawls to the floor. People are pushing and crowding to see. 
EXT - POOR HOUSE - DAY 
A cobblestoned street-scene. Carriage. A delivery wagon. Vendors. Pedestrians. The doors of the poor house burst open, releasing a frenzy into the street: Victor and Henry carrying Waldman by his arms and legs, all the students running alongside, some of them weeping with panic, the crowd at their heels still trying to catch a glimpse, pedestrians scattering, the students dwindling up the long winding street, bearing their professor toward the school, shouting for help... 
INT - UNIVERSITY CHAPEL - DAY 
Krempe delivers the eulogy before the open casket. The chapel is full. Victor is seated near the back. Dazed. Henry comes up the aisle and slides in next to him. Victor doesn't even glance over. Henry whispers: 
HENRY They just caught the man who did it. 
We find Victor standing over the corpse. Gaunt and hollow- eyed. Exhausted and obsessed. Wearing a butcher's apron. Staring down at one of the dead man's forearms. Maggots are swarming in the flesh. He abruptly raises a cleaver and WHACKS it off at the elbow. 
INT - VICTOR'S GARRET - NIGHT 
TRACKING SLOWLY past the forearm lying in a steel pan, we find Victor performing an intense chemical analysis. Dead tissues are breaking apart in solvents, distilled over a slow-burning flame. Victor smears a glass slide, places it under a microscope. 
INT - GASTHOF - DAY 
Victor is hunched over his notebook, pale and unhealthy, scribbling notations next to a rendering of the human form. Henry is across from him: 
HENRY Victor. This has got to stop. (Victor glances up) Nobody's seen you in months. You haven't attended a single class. 
VICTOR I've been preoccupied. 
HENRY We all know how hard you took Waldman's death. Even Krempe is sympathetic. But it is time to move on. It is time to concern yourself with life. 
VICTOR That is my concern. (faint smile) I'm involved in something just now. I want to finish it in Waldman's memory. 
HENRY How much longer? 
VICTOR Few months perhaps. I'm gathering the raw materials even now. 
EXT - GRAVEYARD - NIGHT 
The wrought-iron doors of a crypt have been forced open. 
CAMERA PUSHES through to find Victor standing inside over a stone sarcophagus with a pry bar in his hands. He's nervous, working up his courage: 
VICTOR Materials. That's all they are Tissue to be re-used. 
He pries off the stone lid. It THUMPS heavily to the floor, cracking in half. He opens the casket, reaches in, raises the pale arm of the deceased to inspect it. 
EXT - GRAVEYARD - NIGHT 
Stone monuments. Bare trees. Ivy-covered ground. Victor shoulder-deep in a grave. Shoveling. A lamp burns low. 
COFFIN - NIGHT 
Pitch black. The lid swings open, cascading dust and soil. Victor peers down, holding the kerosene lamp high. 
VICTOR'S GARRET - NIGHT 
TRACKING ALONG the shelves, crammed now with formaldehyde jars of feet and hands, brains and kidneys, the occasional head staring through the glass, dead cats... 
...and we find Victor working into the wee hours. Hunched over his specimens. Candle flame flickering low. Referring back to Waldman's notes. Making notations in arcane books such as "De Occulta Philosophia," by Agrippa, and "Le Sciences et les arts D'alchimiste," by Paracelsus. 
FRANKENSTEIN ESTATE - LATE DAY 
A magnificent backdrop of mountains against a cloudless blue sky. TILT DOWN to Elizabeth and Justine with the mansion distant. A steady breeze ripples the fields as Elizabeth regards a stack of mail. 
ELIZABETH Nothing. Still nothing. 
JUSTINE It's been months. It's not like him. 
ELIZABETH Something's wrong. I know it. (off her look) I've heard rumors of cholera spreading south from Hamburg. 
JUSTINE So have I 
ELIZABETH I should go. I should leave today. 
JUSTINE Elizabeth. If it's true, travel into Germany would be banned. You'd never get near Ingolstadt. (beat) Besides, they're only rumors. 
ELIZABETH (beat, nods) And not a word of them to Father. He's agitated enough not hearing from Victor. 
JUSTINE Read him one of the old letters and rephrase it. We'll say it came today. It'll set his mind at ease. 
Elizabeth gives her a hug. They walk toward the mansion 
INT - BLACKSMITH SHOP - DAY 
Murky and dark. Bellows are pumping. Showers of sparks cascade. The BLACKSMITH and his ASSISTANT are pounding a metallic sledgehammer litany, beating a huge copper sheet into shape. Victor enters. The blacksmith directs his attention to a finished copper piece leaning against the wall. Victor runs his hand over the surface. Nice. 
INT - MATERNITY WARD - CHARITY HOSPITAL - NIGHT 
A WOMAN lies on a table, screaming as she goes into labor. Her water breaks, cascading into a steel bucket. One of the ASSISTANTS snatches it up, scurries around the corner. Victor is waiting in the shadows. Money changes hands. 
INT - VICTOR'S GARRET - NIGHT 
Victor is examining the amniotic fluid. Boiling it off. Working to synthesize it. 
INT - VICTOR'S GARRET - NIGHT 
Victor pours the final drum of fluid into what appears to be a large copper vat. He dips his hand in, examines the consistency and smell. ANGLE WIDENS, spinning slowly up to reveal that the vat is human in shape. A sarcophagus. 
EXT - ALLEY - NIGHT 
We find Victor examining three corpses on the back of a wagon, checking nostrils and teeth with gloved hands. A PAIR OF MEN lurk in the shadows, waiting. 
Henry keeps walking. Jostled by the hostile crowd. Looking around. Dazed. Dead bodies are stacked along the street like cordwood, waiting for the death carts. ANGLE WIDENS as Henry stumbles along through utter despair and devastation, stunned at the human suffering around him as we 
FADE TO: 
INT - VICTOR'S GARRET - NIGHT 
Victor glances at the clock. Scribbles in his journal: 
VICTOR Time running out. Rate of decay accelerating. Must strike now... or start again from scratch. 
He gazes down at his creation, lying once again on the slab before him... but now the Creature lies on a full body-length steel grate. Steel chains with hooks dangle from the ceiling above... along with long coils of thick copper wire tipped with glittering needles big enough to knit with. 
Victor glances up at the Da Vinci. The Study of Man has been daubed with red paint at key acupuncture points. Victor dips a huge cotton swab in a bowl of iodine, starts dabbing identical marks on the body before him... 
Now he's ramming the huge wire-fed needles deep into these spots, brutally working them around in the flesh to get good contact. The forearms, the neck, the rib cage... 
Now he's attaching the steel chain-hooks to the four corners of the steel grate... 
Now he's pulling on a rope, straining to hoist the whole rig into the air. It lifts slowly from frame: body, needles, wires and all... 
HIGH WIDE ANGLE 
...and we get our first spectacular look at Frankenstein's gloriously low-tech and stupendously arcane lab. The Creature dangles below us from the ceiling-hoist, lying full-length and horizontal on its steel grate, spinning slowly, thick copper wires trailing from its arms and legs, rib cage and neck, armpits and groin. The copper cables trail upward, coil along the ceiling like garden hose to provide necessary slack, meander down the wall to culminate in a splendiferous array of galvanic batteries, steam engines and generators. 
Frankenstein reaches slowly up, fingertips straining toward the ceiling as if worshipping the creation revolving endlessly above his head in a perfectly-described circle not at all unlike the Da Vinci... 
And he grabs the lever on the platform and pulls to start it spinning, with a mighty heave, he sets the whole thing gliding in motion, CAMERA TRACKING FASTER AND FASTER as he rolls it along the ceiling track through the lab, passing table after table of desiccated leftovers and discarded scraps, LIGHTNING BLAZING through the windows to mark his way with wild and sinister shadows... 
...and he yanks the platform to a stop over the copper sarcophagus. Amniotic fluid steaming and murky within. He positions the platform, unties the rope, lowers the Creature down and down, lower and lower, sinking into the vat, the steel grate a perfect fit in size and shape. 
Faster now, moving furiously. Reaching into the murk, unhooking the chains. Arraying the copper wire through air- tight guide holes. Spinning on his heels and reaching up, grabbing hold of the upper shell of the sarcophagus also suspended from the ceiling, stunningly heavy, gleaming with reflections and secrets. CAMERA ROCKETS DOWN on Victor as he swings the upper shell into position, lowers it into place with a THUD-CLANK! Working the wing-nuts on the bolts, spinning frantically, tightening them down, sealing the sarcophagus air-tight. Faster now. Faster. 
The frenzy builds and the CAMERA GOES WILD, rocketing, zooming, gliding, spinning the audience on its ear: 
Frankenstein. Turning up the heat on the burners. Cooking the copper from below. Double double, toil and trouble. 
Frankenstein. Gazing through the thick glass portholes checking on his creation drifting in the murk. 
Frankenstein. Whipping up the galvanic batteries, supercharging them with steam generators. Watching as they send voltage humming and throbbing through the copper cables along the ceiling beams. Building up a charge. 
Frankenstein. Gazing at his gleaming handiwork. LIGHTNING painting his features into a twisted mask. Hand on the switch. Ready to rev it up and throw the throttle. 
Over it goes. WHAM! Overdrive. 
The body convulses violently in its copper womb as the first jolt of electricity hits. THUNK-THUNK-THUNK! Blazing with energy and arcane light, fingers of light throbbing through the portholes, sparkling, glittering, seeking. 
Frankenstein races to the sarcophagus. A long glass tube, two feet in diameter and ribbed with steel, gets lowered on a boom and rammed into a hole, collate spun tight, inner dam wrenched out like a Polaroid plate. 
He reaches up and grabs holds of a pull-chain, fingers going knuckle-white on the wooden handle. One hard yank. A dump- tank is released, murky water cascading down the glass tube. And here's the final perversion, the ultimate icing on this twisted cake: the copper sarcophagus is literally a womb, with the giant glass tube serving as a massive gleaming phallus down which come pouring dozens of electric eels, wriggling and streaming like huge black sperm... 
EEL POV (IN THE TUBE) 
...rocketing down the tube, slithering and squirming, faster and faster, racing into the sarcophagus, seeking out the creation in the murky womb-fluid, lashing at the hapless gray flesh, zapping it again with high-intensity voltage. The Creature convulsing, thrashing, jerking from side to side, raising its head against the top, mouth gaping open and shut, jaws snapping with electrical surges. 
Frankenstein's face appears at the porthole, peering in, watching his dark seed fertilize his unholy child. 
VICTOR (muffled through the glass) Live, you bastard! 
A huge bony hand slaps against the porthole, fingers clawing and spasming against the glass. 
FRANKENSTEIN jerks his head back, stunned. The fingers are scratching. He turns, runs to the electrical rig, shutting the whole thing down. It cycles off, whining into silence 
INSIDE THE SARCOPHAGUS 
...and the body relaxes, shutting down with it, going limp and lifeless in the murk, spasms trailing off. 
FRANKENSTEIN stares at the sarcophagus. Realizing his creation has stopped moving. Nothing now. He sags to his knees, utterly devastated at the loss of his dream. Nothing. 
It was all for nothing... 
INSIDE THE SARCOPHAGUS 
...And The Creature opens its dim yellow eyes, aware. Its mouth goes wide, teeth bared in a silent scream as it tries to breathe and finds nothing in its lungs but fluid. 
FRANKENSTEIN is wrapped in his despair, face cradled in his hands. A SOFT TAP. He glances over his fingers. Thinking he imagined it. No. There's another tap. And another. 
We see it in his eyes. Sheer joy and stunned exultation. 
Triumph and wonder unbelievably sublime. A bare whisper: 
VICTOR It's alive. It's alive. 
And then hell breaks loose: Massive convulsions wrack the sarcophagus, damn near shaking it off its cradle. THUMP- THUMP-THUMP! Pounding from within. Head ramming against the inner lid. He races over, frantic, fingers fumbling on the wing-nuts, spinning them loose, trying to free the drowning man within. He unscrews the final bolt, reaches for the rope to hoist the lid away... 
...and the lid launches itself across the room, propelled from below with rocket-booster force. The massive copper shell goes hurtling/spinning/cartwheeling across the lab, demolishing an amazing array of equipment in its path, and thunders massively off the wall in an explosion of masonry and splintering coat rack. Victor's greatcoat goes flying. 
Silence. Frankenstein is frozen. Staring at the roiling surface of the amniotic fluid as it settles. An eternity passes in the space of a heartbeat. 
The Creature is left whimpering and shaken. He pushes to his feet and hurries in the opposite direction, legs bare and pale beneath the swirling greatcoat, clutching his collar against the cold. He hears a distant CLANGING. 
VOICE (O.S.) Bring out your deeeaaad! Bring out your deeeaaad! 
A death cart clatters slowly past the mouth of the alley, DRIVER ringing his bell. It makes no sense to the Creature, but it's a sign of human life. He presses on... 
EXT - TOWN SQUARE - DAY 
...and emerges into the square as ANGLE WIDENS. There's a fair amount of activity. People are still leaving the city, though the earlier flood has thinned. Some citizens are still trying to go about their normal lives. VENDORS are calling out, selling food. The Creature moves through the square, unnoticed, just another figure mingling with the flow. People trudge along, eyes downcast, miseries great, paying little attention. 
The Creature pauses, sniffing the air. An aroma draws him to a vendor's stand. Loaves of bread are laid out. He hunches down to smell one, picks it up, bites off a chunk. Chewing. 
It's good. A bigger bite. Snatching up more. 
WOMAN (O.S.) Here! What do you think you're doing? 
The Creature glances up. The VENDOR'S WIFE is within arm's reach, breath catching in her throat at the sight of him. 
Mouth gaping. Too stunned to scream. 
The Creature cradles the loaves to his chest, terrified she's going to take them away. He remembers his recent experience with the dogs and decides to try out the lesson he learned: he curls his lips back and snarls. 
He's rewarded with a PIERCING SHRIEK. The Creature jumps back, startled. This wasn't the desired effect. The woman SCREAMS like she'll never stop. He turns to run away... 
...and plows right into the stream of refugees. He goes sprawling, scraping his knees bloody, still clutching his loaves. Confusion all around. People converge angrily. A ROUGH MAN grabs his hair, jerking him upright... 
ROUGH MAN Stupid bastard! 
...and the Creature staggers to his feet before them, whimpering to protect his food, showing his face to all. Screams and panic. The Creature whips around, seeing horrified faces on all sides... 
He's the cholera! He's the one been spreadin' the plague! 
...faces which turn into an angry mob, glaring sheer hatred. Somebody hits him in the face with a heavy stick, spinning him to the ground, loaves of bread scattering. They surround him, hitting, flailing, throwing stones. He tries to crawl, whimpering for them to stop. 
VENDOR'S WIFE BURN HIM! BURN HIM! 
The Creature finds himself hoisted into the air, falling back onto a sea of hands, kicking and screaming as the mob sweeps him across the square like some pagan sacrifice. He gets tossed onto the hard cobblestone in a thrashing heap, scrambles to his knees as the crowd surrounds him. He's wailing with terror now, long inhuman howls of fear. Men start flinging lamp oil, spattering him, blinding him. A torch is lit, swung toward him. Feel the heat. 
The Creature lunges to his feet, panic and terror complete bulldozing through the crowd to get away from the torch, bowling people over, scattering them in all directions. He breaks free, hobbling wildly across the square, greatcoat billowing. The mob streams after him, thirsty for blood, hurling rocks and sticks. 
EXT - STREETS/ALLEYS - DAY 
The Creature is weeping as he runs, bleeding from his many cuts and bruises. He turns a corner, collapses against a wall to catch his breath. He can hear them coming, shouting. They'll be here any second. 
He sees a death cart heaped with bodies. He hurls himself up on the cart to conceal himself among the putrefying corpses. The crowd streams past the mouth of the alley. The death cart WORKERS appear, heaving another corpse onto the cart, gaping fearfully at the confusion. They scramble into their seats, snap the reins. The cart rattles off as we 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT - STREET - DAY 
Elsewhere in Ingolstadt. Death carts and devastation. This part of town was hit hard. Bodies are heaped in gutters, stacked along the walls. People are huddled in doorways, quaking with sickness and pestilence. CART WORKERS move among them, faces shrouded with kerchiefs and burlap masks. 
WORKER #1 moves down a row of the sick and dead, shaking them to see which is which, his face hidden behind heavy burlap. He pauses, seeing Victor unconscious against the wall, pale and covered with filth, shaking with fever. The worker's eyes widen. Stunned. He calls over his shoulder: 
WORKER #1 Over here! 
WORKER #2 hurries over. Stares down. Eyes also widening. 
WORKER #2 Oh my God. 
Worker #1 rips his mask away. It's Henry. He leans down and grabs Victor, trying to rouse him. 
HENRY Victor! 
Worker #2 also sweeps his mask aside. Professor Krempe. 
KREMPE Don't dawdle, lad! The sick cart! Lift on three! One, two, three! 
They hoist Victor off the ground by his arms and legs and carry him into the street. Victor rouses, feels himself being carried. He sees a death cart looming ahead, stacked with heaps of reeking dead. Staring. Waiting. 
VICTOR (delirious, struggling) No... no... I'm not dead... please... Don't put me on the cart! I'm not dead! I'm not dead! I'M NOT DEAD! 
ANGLE WIDENS UP as they carry him kicking and screaming past the death cart and on across the square... 
WIPE TO: 
EXT - MASS CEMETERY - DAY 
A death cart rattles past, bearing its load. PAN WITH IT to reveal a scene utterly Dante-esque. Here's where the dead are brought to be burned en masse. Fires are burning. Smoke is drifting in thick clouds, obscuring the sky. Soot is drifting like black snow.  BODIES  are dumped into a slit- trench, rolling and tumbling in heaps. Barrels are kicked over. Streams of oil come pouring down, splashing and soaking. 
One of the corpses moves, heaving the others aside. The Creature gazes around, terrified once again at the smell of oil. He knows what that means. He pushes free, clambering over bodies, desperately trying to scramble from the trench, loose soil crumbling under his fingertips... 
ON THE LIP OF THE TRENCH 
...as WORKERS prepare to light the blaze. A MAN turns toward the trench with a burning torch... And then the Creature erupts from the trench of dead bodies right before big eyes, The man SCREAMS. The Creature SCREAMS even louder, cowering back. The man hurls the torch. The Creature ducks as it goes spinning over his head into the trench. 
WA-BOOOM! A massive wall of flame punches sky-ward. The Creature whirls, stunned at the searing heat, arms thrown up in horror. He flees, scattering the workers as he goes, running from this ghastly place of flames and death... 
HENRY We catch a few hours sleep where we can. Usually here at your bedside. 
VICTOR (deeply moved) Everything in moderation, Clerval. 
HENRY Nothing in moderation, Frankenstein. 
Victor takes Henry's hand. Squeezes it. 
HENRY It's the down-and-outs I pity most. Those who can't fend for themselves. They'll be dead by the thousands before this is done. They don't stand a chance out there. 
VICTOR (thinking of his creation) No. They don't. 
HENRY Victor. This place looked like a charnel house. What went on here? 
Victor pauses, too emotional to respond. Softly: 
VICTOR I want to go home. 
Beat. 
Henry accepts this, though he doesn't like it. 
HENRY It'll be months before you're well enough. Meantime, your family must be frantic not hearing from you. 
Henry grabs a stack of letters from the nightstand. 
HENRY I found these. Some of the postmarks go back nine months. (slaps them on the bed) Why don't you open them? And when you've the strength, have the decency to ease their minds with a reply. Soon as the city ends quarantine, I'll even mail it for you. Along with this. (raises the locket) It's a beautiful gift. Does her no good lying here. 
Henry leaves him alone to wrestle with his guilt. Victor is swept with emotion and remorse. He closes his eyes. Softly: 
VICTOR It can't survive. 
INT - PIGSTY - DAY 
The Creature and the pigs are sleeping in a heap. He rouses, scattering them, crawls to the slats of the sty. Felix is returning wearily from the fields with a large basket on his back. The Creature moves to his chink in the wall to see Felix enter the house and dump the basket out for Marie. A pathetic array of potatoes and turnips. 
FELIX Not much to look at. Even less to eat. I don't how we're going to get through the winter with this yield. 
MARIE We'll sell another pig at market. 
FELIX One less for us. 
MARIE We'll make do. We always have. 
He sinks into a chair, weighed by worry. She moves to comfort him, cradling his head to her breast. He returns her embrace, drawing strength. A tender, gentle moment. The Creature watches, puzzled and empathetic, deeply moved by her sympathy. Felix gathers himself, wipes his eyes. 
FELIX I'll see if I can scratch a few more out of the ground. 
He hoists the basket and exits. The Creature turns to watch Felix trudging back toward the fields. 
EXT - FIELD - DAY 
Felix digs for potatoes, tilling as he goes. Back-breaking work. Thomas provides what help he can. Some distance away, Maggie and Grandfather are tending the cow. ANGLE SHIFTS to reveal the Creature watching from the brambles... 
INT - PIGSTY - NIGHT 
The Creature watches the family eat their dinner. Potatoes and turnips. A glimmer of understanding in his eyes. 
EXT - HOUSE - NIGHT 
A long shadow looms toward the dwelling... circling the house... approaching the shed. Baskets and tools... 
EXT - FIELDS - NIGHT 
We find the Creature working by the light of a refulgent moon, hacking away at the soil, tilling the earth... 
INT - PIGSTY - DAWN 
The Creature stirs, hearing movement within the house. He scurries to the slats of the sty and peers out. All the baskets from the tool shed are stacked to overflow before the door. 
The door opens. Felix steps out and trips on a basket, sprawling to the ground in a torrent of potatoes and turnips. He sits up, gazing in wonder. 
INT - PIGSTY - NIGHT 
A sliver of warm light spills through the chink in the wall. 
The Creature looms into frame, busily munching a raw potato. 
A pig comes snuffling at his elbow. He shoves him away. Go find your own. Inside, the family is enjoying a much more generous meal than the last one: 
GRANDFATHER I wish we could thank our benefactor. 
FELIX Nothing in this life comes free of cost. I'd like to know who and why. 
MAGGIE It's the Good Spirit of the forest. 
FELIX Who's been filling your head? 
GRANDFATHER Perhaps I can help. Tell me who. 
The Creature is huffing air, breath hitching in his chest like a panicking child. His monstrous eyes well up with tears. Trying to get the words out: 
CREATURE I love them... so very much. I want... I want... them to be my ff-family. I II-Ilove them ss-so very mm-mm- mmuch... 
The Creature pauses. Trying to get the words out. And the door swings open. The Creature whips his head. There stands Maggie. Eyes going wide. Breath catching in her throat. She lets out an ear-splitting SHRIEK! The Creature throws himself on the old man's lap, clutching him, pleading: 
CREATURE Don't let them hate me! 
Felix bursts in, shoving Maggie aside, hell breaking loose in screaming, hollering chaos: Marie trying to get the children out of the way, Felix throwing himself on the Creature to rip him off the old man, the Creature sprawling to the floor, the old man shouting, the children SHRIEKING, Felix snatching, up the fireplace poker and swinging it down, again and again, trying to kill the thing... 
GRANDFATHER Leave him alone! 
...the CREATURE SCREAMING and taking the blows, writhing across the floor in agony, the children scattering from his pleading hands. The CREATURE rolls from under the brutal beating and sails out the door. 
EXT - WOODS - DAY 
The Creature runs bleeding and sobbing, a specter sailing among the trees with greatcoat billowing like huge dark wings. Running from the horrified screams of rejection still echoing in his mind. 
EXT - WOODS - DAY 
A snowscape. Stark trees. A figure in a greatcoat. Head bowed with misery. Leaning against a tree. Trying to catch his breath. Can't. Crying too hard. He sinks to his knees, hands clutched bitterly to his heaving chest. Wondering why the anguish doesn't stop his heart in mid-beat. 
A realization. He pulls the little red silk flower from the inside pocket. It lies glittering in his huge, misshapen palm like gentle magic. Or hope. Yes. 
HOUSE - DUSK 
The sky is brewing. The Creature runs across the courtyard toward the house, breathless, holding his palm out. See? Here's the flower you gave me. Don't you understand? 
CREATURE It's me! It's mmmmeeeeee! 
Nothing. He glances around. The pigs are gone. Chickens too. 
The Creature's eyes go wide. He dashes to the house 
HOUSE - DUSK 
...and bursts in to find it empty. Items have been scattered and left behind. Books, clothes, even the old man's recorder. They left in a hurry. 
CREATURE ...no. 
HOUSE - NIGHT 
We hear furniture CRASHING, glass SHATTERING, shelves being ripped from walls. A faint glow kicks up. Flames rise within. The Creature exits with a flaming torch, spins back to watch. He has new possessions: an armload of books jammed in a satchel, some extra clothes on his body, the old man's recorder jammed in his belt. 
A HOWLING WIND whips up, billowing his coat and hair, fanning the flames even higher. He raises his torch, HOWLING along with the wind, reflected fire seething in his eyes, exulting as the house is consumed... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
MONT BLANC - DAY 
Massive pale gray feet walking through the snow. ANGLE WIDENING to reveal a lone, windswept figure traversing the glacier with a walking staff. Struggling toward the crest of a ridge. Greatcoat billowing in a freezing wind. 
THE CREATURE rises from below the crest and gazes down. 
Glowering with triumph at achieving his goal. Softly: 
CREATURE Geneva. 
AERIAL SHOT sweeps up the slope of the glacier like the wind itself, rising magnificently past the tiny figure standing on the ridge, sailing up over the crest... to reveal the valley and lake of Geneva below. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT - VICTOR'S GARRET - DAY (SPRING) 
Sunlight streams through the dormer window. Birds twitter on the ledge outside. The trees are in bloom. Victor stands dressed and ready to go, taking one last pensive look around at the now-empty garret. Henry appears: 
HENRY Our carriage is here. 
EXT - INGOLSTADT CITY GATES - DAY 
Bustling with activity. Hopeful. A traffic snarl is jammed up in both directions, waiting to get in and out of the city. People, carriages, wagons, goods. We find Professor and MRS. KREMPE saying goodbye to Victor and Henry: 
MRS. KREMPE (watching the gates) Such a terrible winter. I'll praise God to see those gates open again. 
KREMPE I'll have all your things sent on. They should arrive soon after. (Victor nods) It's been a rough time, lad. For us all. But if you'd like to come back and finish out your final term once university re-opens... 
A ROAR goes up from the crowd. The gates are finally opening as SOLDIERS swing them aside. The traffic starts to flow. 
Victor turns back to Krempe, nods gratefully. 
VICTOR Thank you, Professor. For everything. 
Krempe is flustered as Victor gives him an awkward hug. 
KREMPE Write and let us know you've arrived safely. 
He pauses, hearing FAINT TONES carried on the breeze, eerie and flute-like. A recorder. Curious, he follows the sounds further and further into the woods... 
EXT - POND - LATE DAY 
...and comes into view of the pond. There's a FIGURE sitting half-concealed among the tall reeds, gazing off across the water and playing his delicate wind instrument with oddly- pleasing dissonance (again, a simple variation of our familiar WALTZ/LOVE THEME.) 
Willie draws closer. Curious. Not wanting to intrude, but listening to the music. The figure in the reeds still hasn't noticed him... 
...And then his head abruptly whips around, An ogre right out of a storybook. Willie's eyes go wide. The locket drops from his fingers into the dust. The boy turns and runs as the monster in the reeds lunges to its feet: 
CREATURE Wait! Don't be afraid! 
The boy keeps running. The Creature comes shambling up from the pond, still calling after him. He picks up the dropped object. As he rises, he finds himself staring at the locket. 
At the small painting it contains. Victor Frankenstein. He raises his gaze after the fleeing boy. Maybe Willie does have reason to be afraid. 
The Creature starts after him, locket clenched in his fist, teeth grinding in greater and greater rage. Eyes wild. 
THEIR FEET go pounding through the brambles and brush. The terrified boy. The pursuing monster. Faster and faster... 
INT - FRANKENSTEIN KITCHEN - DUSK 
Whirling with activity. Mrs. Moritz supervises the staff. 
Elizabeth and Justine are helping with the preparations. 
Justine turns with a platter, collides with one of the kitchen staff. Carrots go flying. 
MRS. MORITZ Justine! Pay attention! 
JUSTINE (tight) Yes, Mother. 
ELIZABETH (pulls her aside) Are you all right? 
JUSTINE (even tighter) Fine. 
Justine sees genuine concern. She softens: 
JUSTINE I'll be all right. Really. 
Father enters with Claude. Both men worried. 
FATHER Have you seen Willie? 
ELIZABETH Is he not back yet? 
FATHER Claude rode over there to see if held lost track of time. They say he never arrived. 
ELIZABETH It's far too late for him to still be out. 
EXT - MANSION - DUSK 
Elizabeth exits with the others 
CLAUDE Don't worry, Monsieur, we'll find him. 
He rushes to gather the men. Elizabeth gazes off. Wind kicking up. Night approaching. Almost too dark to see. 
EXT - COUNTRYSIDE/WOODS - NIGHT 
A massive search in progress. People are scouring the fields on horse and on foot, shouting Willie's name. Elizabeth enters frame, calling out: 
ELIZABETH WILLIE! 
LIGHTNING dances on the horizon. A storm approaching. 
EXT - WOODED AREA - NIGHT 
The stark black silhouettes of tree trunks bisect the frame in foreground as Justine approaches from the fields, lantern held high... 
JUSTINE WILLIE! 
...and one of the "tree trunks" turns out not to be. It darts abruptly across frame with a billow of flapping greatcoat, Justine enters the woods. A FLASH OF LIGHTNING sends shadows skittering among the trees... 
EXT - ROAD TO MANSION - NIGHT 
...And the storm is now a raging downpour, TILT DOWN to reveal a coach clattering through the rain. 
INT - COACH - NIGHT 
Victor is peering out the window flap. 
VICTOR There! Look! 
Henry cranes to look. A LIGHTNING FLASH stutters the mansion briefly to life a few hundred yards down the road, 
HENRY Quite a place. 
He draws closer still. Intimate. Turning his head this way and that. Puzzling at Victor's face. Softly: 
CREATURE Were the dying cries of your brother music in my ears? 
He raises his hand before Victor's eyes, bony fingers curling to clutch an invisible throat. Victor is petrified 
CREATURE I took him by the throat with one hand... lifted him off the ground. And slowly crushed his neck. (emotion growing) That poor, innocent child died in my grip... because all I could see was your face... and all I could feel was my rage. And when I let him go, he fluttered to the grass like a sparrow... 
FLASHBACK INSERT: FIELD 
The Creature gazes down at Willie's body. He stares at the hand that committed the crime as if waking from a dream. 
Tears welling. Overcome with shame and horror. 
He falls to knees in the middle of the vast field, his wail echoing across the countryside as he weeps over the boy. 
RESUME ICE CAVE 
Victor stares in horror as the Creature relates his story with tears shining in his monstrous eyes. 
CREATURE Later, when they were searching, I followed the pretty lady who got lost in the woods... 
FLASHBACK INSERT: - BARN 
Justine is asleep in the hay. Haggard, wet, exhausted. The Creature looms over her, a monstrous shape backlit by the lightning, gazing on her beauty. His hand reaches down, hovering reverently, wishing to caress the swell of her breasts at the neckline of her bodice ... 
CREATURE (V.O.) She was so lovely. I longed to touch her... and seek her sympathy... 
The locket drops from his hand to dangle in his fingers. He lowers it, tucking it gently away in her pocket 
CREATURE (V.O.) ...but I simply returned the object which had triggered my crime, hoping in some small way to atone... 
RESUME ICE CAVE 
Now tears are shining in victor's eyes as well. 
CREATURE You gave me these emotions, but you didn't tell me how to use them. Now two people are dead. Because of us. 
Victor is crushed by remorse. A sob escapes him. 
CREATURE Why, Victor? Why? What were you thinking? 
VICTOR There was something at work in my soul which I do not understand. 
CREATURE What of my soul? Do I have one? Or was that a part you left out? (spreads his hands) Who were these people of which I am comprised? Good people? Bad people? 
VICTOR Materials. Nothing more. 
CREATURE You're wrong. Do you know I knew how to play this? 
He grabs up the recorder, plays a brief snatch of melody. 
CREATURE In which part of me did this knowledge reside? In these hands? In this mind? In this heart? (beat) And reading and speaking. Not things learned... so much as things remembered. 
VICTOR Trace memories in the brain, perhaps. 
CREATURE Stolen memories. Stolen and hazy. They taunt me in my dreams. I've seen a beautiful woman lying back and beckoning for me to love her. Whose woman was this? I've seen boys playing, splashing about in a stream. Whose childhood friends were these? (soft, intense) Who am I? 
VICTOR (hollow) I don't know. 
CREATURE Then perhaps I believe in evil after all. 
The Creature moves off. Victor is emotionally exhausted 
VICTOR What can I do? 
CREATURE There is something I want. (pause) A friend. 
VICTOR Friend? 
CREATURE A companion. A female. Like me, so she won't hate me. 
VICTOR Like you? Oh, God, you don't know what you're asking. 
CREATURE I do know that for the sympathy of one living being, I would make peace with all. (beat) I have love in me the likes of which you can scarcely imagine. And rage the likes of which you would not believe. If I cannot satisfy the one, I will demonically indulge the other. That choice is yours. (off his look) You're the one who set this in motion, Frankenstein. 
VICTOR And if I consent? 
CREATURE We'd travel north, my bride and I. To the furthest reaches of the Pole, where no man has ever set foot. There we would live out our lives. Together. (beat) No human eye would ever see us again. This I vow. 
PUSHING SLOWLY IN on Victor. Considering it. Beaten. 
EXT - MONT BLANC GLACIER - NEXT MORNING 
Victor is calming his skittish horse as the Creature looms into view. Victor turns. The Creature tosses Victor his journal. Victor hesitates, jams it into his saddlebag. 
CREATURE Soon? 
INT - COFFIN - NIGHT 
...and the lid wrenches aside to reveal the Creature. He peers down at us, almost close enough to kiss. 
EXT - FRANKENSTEIN MANSION - ANGLE FROM ROOF - NIGHT 
The Creature nimbly climbs the outer wall, fingers grasping the brickwork, a dark shape slung over his shoulder. He pauses as a PAIR OF STABLEHANDS pass far below. He pulls himself onto the roof, crosses the gables, and pushes open a dormer window. We see Victor inside as it swings open. The Creature enters with his prize... 
INT - ATTIC - NIGHT 
...and the mottled corpse of Justine Moritz flops onto the table before us. 
TILT UP TO: 
CREATURE I want her. 
Victor stares down in utter horror. Her cold, dead face. Blue lips already beginning to shrivel. Purple, sunken eyes. 
Knowing that she loved him. Knowing it's his fault she's dead. He can barely get the words out: 
VICTOR Why... her? 
CREATURE Her body pleases me. 
That's it for Victor. He turns away, stomach heaving. It's all he can do to keep from throwing up. 
CREATURE Materials, remember? Nothing more. Your words. 
Victor hesitates, pulling himself together. Softly: 
VICTOR My words. 
He turns back, forcing himself to examine the body, trying not to view it as someone he knows. He cradles the head, probing the back of the neck with his fingers. 
VICTOR The brain stem was destroyed by the hanging. We'll need another. The body looks like it will do, but some extremities are too decayed. They'll have to be replaced. The fresher the better. 
EXT - ALLEY - RED LIGHT DISTRICT - NIGHT 
Outside the back door of a rowdy tavern, we find a PROSTITUTE servicing a SAILOR in the alley: he's got her pressed against the wall, skirt hiked up. It's not long before he's finished. Off he goes, staggering back into the bar. She arranges her skirt, tucking the money away... and pauses, noticing a TALL FIGURE in the shadows. Staring. She approaches with her best saucy smile: 
PROSTITUTE Want some yourself? Or just like to watch? (draws close) What do you say, lover? I can make it good for you. 
The Creature leans into the light, clamps a massive hand to her mouth. His other arm wraps around her waist, pulling her off the ground. She gazes up, eyes wide, screams muffled in his palm. Softly: 
CREATURE I know you can. 
And he wrenches his arm, snapping her spine. 
INT - ATTIC - NIGHT 
The dead prostitute lies staring up, dried blood staining her mouth. TILT UP to Victor gazing down in horror. 
VICTOR What is this? 
CREATURE A brain. Extremities. 
VICTOR This was not taken from a grave. 
CREATURE What does it matter? She'll live again. You'll make her. 
VICTOR No. I draw the line. 
The Creature lashes out and drags Victor across the table. 
CREATURE You will honor your promise to me! 
VICTOR (through gritted teeth) I will not! Kill me now! 
CREATURE That is mild compared to what will come. If you deny me my wedding night. I'll be with you on yours. 
The Creature vanishes out the attic window into the night. 
Victor is left gasping for air, staring at the dead prostitute. The full horror sinking in. 
INT - ATTIC STAIRCASE - MORNING 
Victor slams the attic door, securing it with a massive padlock. He hurries down the steps. 
INT - GRAND BALLROOM - DAY 
Victor and Elizabeth, intensity flying: 
VICTOR No. Not tomorrow, not next week, Marry me today. 
ELIZABETH Why the change? What about your work? 
VICTOR It was misguided and pointless. Is your answer yes? 
INT - BRIDAL SUITE - NIGHT 
Victor enters to find the room aglow with dozens of candles. 
Elizabeth turns from the fireplace, her body silhouetted through the sheer white nightgown. 
ELIZABETH You're soaking. 
She approaches, peels off his coat. Victor stares at her, awe-struck. She sees the look in his eyes, crosses her arms demurely... then laughs at her own modesty. 
ELIZABETH Brother and sister no more. 
VICTOR Now husband and wife. 
He strokes her bare shoulders with his fingertips. 
VICTOR I remember the first time I ever saw you. Crossing the floor of the grand ballroom with my parents at your side. So beautiful even then. 
ELIZABETH (a whisper) I have been waiting for this ever since. 
She leans up and gives him a kiss that would melt glass, triggering the sexiest seduction imaginable... 
...kissing, caressing, Victor stripping off his wet shirt, CAMERA DRIFTING around them in slow circles, candles spinning like a fever that's been building for a lifetime... and now onto the bed. Magnificent and canopied. Kneeling together, bodies touching, hands seeking, mouths joining... 
Elizabeth lying back, beckoning for him to love her. Victor sinking down, running his hands up her thighs, peeling up the nightgown, making her shudder with desire... 
...and a SHOT FIRES. Victor jerks up. He can hear SHOUTING. 
He rolls off the bed, snatching up both pistols lying primed and ready on the nightstand. 
ELIZABETH Victor! 
VICTOR Open this door for no-one! 
EXT - CHALET - NIGHT 
Victor sails past the GUARD at the entrance, brandishing his pistols. The men converge, shouting in the rain: 
GUARD #2 I saw him in a flash of lightning! He vanished toward the lake! 
CLAUDE Get after him! 
Several men race off in pursuit. TILT UP from Victor and Claude... as a FLASH OF LIGHTNING reveals the Creature clinging in the branches above their heads with a malevolent smile. He scurries  silently up, further and further into the tree... closer and closer to the balcony. 
INT - BRIDAL SUITE - NIGHT 
Elizabeth. Tense and waiting. A shadow looms across the balcony... spilling through the French doors... onto the floor... a bony hand reaches for the latch... 
The doors burst open on a crust of wind and rain, Elizabeth spins as candles blow out all over the room. The Creature enters, massive and unseen, gliding in shadow. Softly: 
CREATURE Don't bother to scream. 
EXT - CHALET - NIGHT 
The men come running back from the lake. They stop before Victor and Claude. 
GUARD #3 We lost him. 
And GUARD #4's eyes drift up: 
GUARD #4 Why are those open? 
Victor spins, gazing up. Breath catching in his throat. The French doors are swaying in the wind. 
VICTOR Elizabeth. 
INT - BRIDAL SUITE - NIGHT 
Elizabeth watches, transfixed, as the huge shadow moves inexorably toward her. Her eyes dart toward the door. She makes a break for it. He catches her halfway across the room, spinning her around by the arm. Her face is lit by the light of the fireplace. 
The Creature pauses, stunned at her beauty. A moment passes between them. She senses the softening in his heart. She peers at him, trying to understand. Realizing: 
ELIZABETH You don't want to hurt me. 
He averts his gaze, shamed by her beauty. 
CREATURE You're more lovely than I could ever have imagined. 
FOOTSTEPS come pounding up the stairs. A HEAVY CRASH of men throwing their shoulders at the door... 
VICTOR ELIZABETH! 
...and it changes back in an instant, The Creature snarls. 
She tries to wrench away. He spins her around so he won't have to look at her in the light, casting her face in shadow. He cooks his arm back and plunges his fist toward her chest with pile-driver force... 
INT - LANDING (OUTSIDE ROOM) - NIGHT 
...and the worst part? The very worst thing of all? There on the shelf. A large formaldehyde jar. Justine's severed head. Watching them through the glass with dead, sightless eyes. Watching them dance. Still a wallflower? No. She's finally finishing her dance with Victor... most of her, anyway. Under the circumstances, it'll have to do... 
...and the waltz goes on, madder and madder, sweeping in glorious circles as a dazzling array of LIGHTNING bathes them in its wild, jittering spotlight, shadows careening across the walls, INSANE MUSIC swelling louder and louder, climbing higher and higher, reaching toward its crescendo with jagged glass claws... 
...and it all screeches to a stop as the door bursts in. Music echoes abruptly away into silence. Nothing now but rain and distant thunder. In the doorway: 
CREATURE She's beautiful. 
VICTOR She's not for you. 
CREATURE I'm sure the lady knows her own mind. Doesn't she? Let her decide the proper suitor. 
The Creature raises his hand. Beckoning. She takes a faltering step. Drawn to him. 
VICTOR Elizabeth, no! (she turns, puzzled) Say my name. 
Her face reflects horror and shame, like a brain-damaged child who's wet the bed. She knows she's supposed to remember... but can't remember what remembering means. 
They both motion to her. Murmuring. Begging. She's caught between them, pulled like a diaphanous rope in a tug of war. 
Please... come with me. Please... remember. She finally tilts toward the Creature. Gazing into his eyes. Studying his face. Fingertips tracing his massively scarred flesh. A beat. A frown. A puzzlement. This isn't right. People don't look like this. They're not stitched together out of pieces of flesh like a patchwork. 
She looks at her own hands. Dead and white. Not even hers. 
One belongs to Justine. Another to a prostitute, suture scars marring the wrist. She looks down at herself. The dead, sagging breasts. The body that isn't hers either. Realization creeping into her eyes. Realization and horror. Turning to Victor. Why do I look like this? What's happened to me? Oh God, what's happened to me? 
ELIZABETH Vic... tor? 
CREATURE ...no... 
...and she lets out a SHRIEK, a banshee wail from the deepest pits of hell. Screaming at them both. Screaming at herself. She goes berserk, trying to claw her flesh away, trying to find the real Elizabeth underneath the horror, trying to peel it away, clawing at her face. Trying to claw out her own eyes. 
Victor lunges to restrain her, screaming himself, veering toward final utter madness like strings snapping on a violin. The Creature grabs him, hurls him aside. 
CREATURE GET AWAY FROM HER! SHE'S MINE! 
VICTOR SHE'LL NEVER BE YOURS! SHE SAID MY NAME! SHE REMEMBERS! 
Yes. She remembers. Not much, but enough. She breaks away from them as they grapple, still SHRIEKING as she sails across the room, tipping furniture, equipment flying... 
...over straight to the kerosene lamp, snatching it up before they can stop her. 
VICTOR NO! 
She spins to face them, holding them breathlessly at bay with the threat of the lamp, twitching from one to the other. But it's not just the lamp, it's the look of sheer loathing in her eyes. Loathing for them for what they've done to her... loathing for herself for what she's become. 
It turns out the lady does know her own mind. She wants no part of it... or them. Decision made. She crushes the lamp in her bare hands, drenching herself in a cascade of kerosene. WHOOOOSH! She goes up like a blazing matchstick and darts past them, still SHRIEKING, still trying to claw the dead flesh away, pulling off giant flaming pieces of herself as she careens out the door and down the steps, Victor and the Creature racing after her... 
INT - UPPER HALLWAY - NIGHT 
...and she sails down the hallway, setting FIRE to everything she passes, SCREAMING for the final torment to end. She hurls herself over the railing, drapes catching ablaze as she plummets to the floor far below. A pillar of flame leaps up on impact. 
VICTOR AND THE CREATURE face each other as flames sweep the walls, combusting the upper hallway into a raging tunnel in Hell. 
VICTOR You killed her! You killed her! 
He hurls himself at the Creature, who backhands him spinning down the hallway, sprawling to the floor. The Creature gazes down at his Maker one last time... 
CREATURE We killed her. 
And then vanishes through the smoke and flames. 
EXT - FRANKENSTEIN ESTATE - DAY 
The once-magnificent estate lies in smoldering ruin beneath a merciless gray sky. Charred beams and drifting smoke are all that remain to mark the passing of a noble family. 
Victor stands gazing at the house. A windswept, hollow man Bundled in a rough coat. Flintlock rifle dangling at his side. Henry moves into frame some distance behind. Softly: 
HENRY Victor. 
No reaction. For a long moment it seems Victor hasn't heard. 
He rouses as if from a trance, turn and walks to his pack horse. The animal stands saddled and ready. 
He starts to mount up, but Henry intercepts him with a restraining hand. Victor snaps a look as if seeing a stranger... and then his features soften. 
VICTOR All that I once loved lies in a shallow grave. By my hand. 
HENRY Let it go. 
Victor pauses, emotions swirling. Wishing he could grab the dangling thread of sanity Henry has offered... but knowing the thread is a bittersweet illusion. A bare whisper: 
VICTOR You should have been my father's son. He would have been so proud. 
Victor abruptly heaves himself into the saddle and spurs his horse. Henry runs after him, shouting: 
HENRY VICTOR! COME BACK! 
The Creature gently strokes Victor's cheek. He reaches up with two fingers, closes the staring eyes. A whisper: 
CREATURE Could we ever have forgiven? 
The question goes unanswered. The Creature rises, gliding in shadow to the door. Pauses. 
CREATURE I've never been shown a kindness. Show me one now. 
WALTON What kindness? 
CREATURE Build for him a pyre. Light up the sky with his passing. 
And then the Creature is gone, vanishing smoothly into the night... 
EXT - ARCTIC - TWILIGHT 
The crew of the Nevsky are on the ice, chopping up the fallen mast, axes rising and falling in waves... 
EXT - ARCTIC - TWILIGHT 
The body of Victor Frankenstein lies on an impressive bier of wood, stacked and lashed. His body is wrapped in rough canvas, his face as dead and white as the ice. 
Walton and crew stand facing the bier. Walton silently reads a passage from the Bible. Oily black smoke from a small campfire drifts past. 
Walton closes the book. Amens are muttered. Walton glances to Grigori and nods. Grigori moves forward with two other men. They begin dousing the pyre with lamp oil, soaking it. 
Walton moves to the campfire, picks up an unlit torch. He dips it into the fire, igniting the pitch, turns. The men back away, preparing for the coming blaze... 
...and a dog starts howling on deck, others joining in. The men pause. Gazing across the ice. Dread seeping into their bones. There's a figure out there. Huge and humanlike in frame. Loping slowly over the ice. Approaching. 
PILOT (softly) Christ. 
Grigori snatches up the rifle, shoulders it smoothly, cocks the flintlock. Walton glances over, pushes the muzzle skyward, denying his aim. 
WALTON It has a right to bear witness. 
Grigori hesitates, nods. If you say so. The men grow more unsettled as the Creature draws nearer. Frightened muttering. Men start backing toward the ship. 
WALTON Stand fast. All of you. 
The men stand fast. The Creature stops some thirty yards out. A silent tableau on the ice. The men facing the Creature. Walton holding the torch. The pyre waiting for the kiss of flame. Walton moves forward... 
...and a THUNDEROUS CRACK is heard, The men whip their heads as a gigantic plate of ice goes spinning into the air some fifty yards away and comes crashing back down again. 
It's like tectonic plates building pressure toward an earthquake: once it goes, it goes with terrifying speed and force: CRACK! Another eruption. CRACK! And another. CRACK! 
Ice cascading skyward. 
OLD SAILOR THE BITCH IS BREAKIN' UP! 
GRIGORI (whips toward Walton) TORCH THE DAMN THING! 
Walton rushes forward. CRACK! The ice erupts before him. The torch goes flying. Walton sprawls flat on his back. 
WALTON BACK TO THE SHIP! 
The men don't have to be told twice. They're already in full retreat, scrambling for their lives. Ice is detonating for miles around as if pounded by artillery. Grigori helps Walton to his feet. The torch lies burning not ten feet away. A heartbeat of hesitation. Walton wondering if he should go for it. Grigori pulling wildly on his sleeve... 
GRIGORI LEAVE IT! 
...and then the matter is decided for them as a huge rift opens at their feet, running an explosive zig-zag course across the ice, separating them from the torch. 
They fall back to join the retreat, stumbling after the others, pursued by the ice dissolving at their heels. 
THE CREATURE watches his last wish for Victor Frankenstein snatched away by God's whim and breaking ice. 
NO 
He starts forward. Behind him, a detonation of ice throws a massive fist into the air, creating a magnificent halo of cascading water and spinning fragments. 
THE NEVSKY 
The first wave of fleeing men reach the ship, crowding to the drop-net for salvation, scrambling up the side. 
WALTON AND GRIGORI stumble along, closing distance to the ship. Walton glances back, amazed to see: 
THE CREATURE 
racing across the ice, making for the torch, teeth set in a wide grimace of effort. Detonations threaten to swallow him from all sides. Suddenly, things go from bad to worse. 
THE NEVSKY 
breaks free with an enormous groan, heeling slowly over, triggering massive eruptions in all directions. The crew hang onto the drop-net for dear life. Several men plummet into the icy water. 
THE CREATURE is propelled by a detonation as if held stepped on a land mine, cartwheeling helplessly through the air to plunge headfirst into the water, huge plates of spinning ice crashing down after him. Gone. 
WALTON AND GRIGORI  are knocked flat as a fissure appears between them. Grigori, dazed, is lifted into the air on a teetering table of ice, desperately trying to scramble back but sliding forward nonetheless, rising up and up, a gaping maw of frigid water yawning wider and wider before him. 
