"NIGHTMARE 13: FREDDY MEETS JASON" -- unproduced, by Lewis Abernathy 
NIGHTMARE 13 -- FREDDY MEETS JASON 
by Lewis Abernathy 
FADE IN: 
EXT. ELM STREET - DAY 
MEAGAN is coming down the sidewalk in slow motion. Her dress and long hair blow slightly in the breeze. The SOUND of CHILDREN CHANTING increases. 
DREAM CHILDREN (in chorus) One... two... Freddy's coming for you. 
On "you" there is a RUMBLE and a flash -- like quick lightning only evil.  (Choice flashes from Nightmare on Elm Street 1 & 2). 
Meagan turns at 1665.  A beautiful white, two-story house, thick with lush green foliage.  Several beautiful children, all dressed in bright white, play hopscotch and jumprope on the front walk. 
DREAM CHILDREN (continuing; chanting) Three... four... better lock your door. 
Close on a little girl's foot coming down on the number "4" drawn on concrete. 
Another RUMBLE and flash -- longer, LOUDER.  (Flashes from Nightmare 3 & 4). 
Meagan continues up the walk, the wind is blowing a little harder now.  The trees are brown, the leaves peeling away. 
Moving up the walk, closer to the house... only now it's a little darker, needs some paint.  On the front porch, a LITTLE GIRL rides a tricycle. 
DREAM CHILDREN (continuing; chanting) Five... six... 
RUMBLE.  Flash.  (Nightmare 5 and Freddy's Dead). 
DREAM CHILDREN (continuing; chanting) ...grab your crucifix.. ix.. ix.. 
The "ix" echoes away, becoming the faint "Ka ka ka" we all recognize as Jason's theme.  Meagan turns to find that the children in the yard have vanished. It's nighttime. 
The trees are dead, the grass is gone, and the horizon stretches off into utter nothingness.  Meagan turns back to the little girl. 
But the little girl has gone.  Only the tricycle remains.  It circles once, the front door CREAKS open, and the empty tricycle peddles inside.  Meagan follows it into the... 
INT. HOUSE ON ELM STREET - CONTINUOUS ACTION 
Meagan enters the house slowly, watching as the tri- cycle rides off down a creepy hallway and disappears. Then the front door blows shut behind Meagan.  She tries to open it -- locked. 
Then faint VOICES cause Meagan to pause.  She listens, trying to make out the low murmur.  Then a little girl's GIGGLE.  Meagan recognizes it as her sister's. 
MEAGAN Lizzy? 
Meagan moves up the stairs, going down the hall... following the voices (we recognize the other voice as belonging to Freddy).  Meagan enters a door at the end of the hallway, moving into... 
INT. LIZZY'S ROOM (NIGHTMARE) - CONTINOUS ACTION 
On the floor, near her bed, is Meagan's thirteen year old sister -- LIZZY.  Slow for her age, Lizzy sits and draws with crayons. 
MEAGAN Lizzy. What are you doing here? 
LIZZY Playing with my friend. 
Meagan looks at the drawings -- childlike renderings of Freddy. 
MEAGAN Your friend? 
LIZZY He lives under the bed. 
Meagan slowly gets to her knees and takes a peek under Lizzy's bed. 
Suddenly, a doll-sized Freddy scurries out from under the bed, flashing past Meagan's face and running out the door.  Meagan yelps and touches her face -- five tiny slash marks on her cheek.  Lizzy clucks. 
LIZZY (continuing) You scared him... 
Meagan looks out the door, incredulous. 
MEAGAN I scared him? 
But when Meagan looks back, Lizzy is gone. 
MEAGAN (continuing) Lizzy? 
The cultists race into a room, grabbing handrailing bolted over head.  They swing like monkeys across the ceiling just as a S.W.A.T. guy charges into the room behind them. 
CLOSE ON S.W.A.T. GUY'S BOOTS as he steps onto a floor covered with upturned nails.  Several nails puncture both boots, the points coming up through the laces. The S.W.A.T. guy screams and another S.W.A.T. guy barrels into the room to see what is wrong.  He knocks the first guy face-first into the floor o' nails. 
Meanwhile, Murdoch is having a blast -- literally. He kicks open the door to a room and guns down three cultists as they try to escape out a window.  As the last body pitches to the floor, Murdoch yells: 
MURDOCH Freeze! 
Murdoch exits, laughing to himself. 
The running GUNBATTLE continues as the cultists retreat to the back of the house, throwing molotov cocktails.  Soon the first floor is ablaze. A S.W.A.T. guy screams as he is consumed by FIRE.  The cultists thunder down a back staircase to the... 
INT. THE BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS ACTION 
The cultists uncover a secret passageway under the house and most escape through the underground tunnel just before the S.W.A.T. team comes BLASTING into the basement.  As the last of the remaining cultists is capped off, a faint voice cries for help.  The S.W.A.T. commander raises up his hand. 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER Hold your fire! 
He pulls off his night vision goggles and shines his flashlight into the basement.  Through the dense smoke he sees a little girl in a white dress is tied to a chair sitting on a crate.  Underneath the chair -- several sticks of dynamite wired to a timer. CLOSE ON THE TIMER: 30... 29... 28... 
LITTLE GIRL HOSTAGE Help me, mister... please. 
The S.W.A.T. commander rushes to the girl, kneeling down to look at the bomb.  Then he takes a Leatherman tool from his vest and starts to work on the bomb's timer. 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER Hang on, honey... I'll have you out of there in a second. 
Murdoch comes down the stairs.  He goes to the secret passageway and says: 
MURDOCH Looks like we'll have to hunt the rest of them down. Let's go before they get too far. 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER We can't leave! Can't you see we've got a situation here? 
Murdoch looks at the little girl and shrugs. 
MURDOCH Leave her. 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER You're crazy! I can't just leave her! 
MURDOCH Forget it. I've seen this before. There's nothing you can do. 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER I've got to try... 
The S.W.A.T. commander wipes his brow and leans in to work on the bomb again.  CLOSE ON TIMER: 24... 
The basement ceiling is now fully ABLAZE and chunks of BURNING DEBRIS fall around the skittish S.W.A.T. team.  Murdoch looks at his watch in a bored fashion. 
MURDOCH You're wasting your time. 
The S.W.A.T. commander studies the wires for another second, then glances back at the timer... 15... 14... 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER Fuck it! 
The S.W.A.T. commander whips out his Spyderco knife and cuts the little girl loose.  He carries her out in his arms as he shouts to his men: 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER (continuing; yelling) CLEAR OUT! SHE'S GOIN' BLOW!!! 
The S.W.A.T. team exits the basement with Murdoch bringing up the rear. 
EXT. CULT COMPOUND - NEXT INSTANT 
The S.W.A.T. commander staggers out with the little girl, followed closely with the remainder of his men and finally Murdoch.  The commander throws himself to the ground, covering the little girl with his body as -- BA-BOOM!!! -- the Elm Street house EXPLODES! 
Murdoch stands as debris rains down around him.  He mutters: 
MURDOCH Punks. 
As the dust settles, the S.W.A.T. commander rolls off the little girl and starts checking her for injury. 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER Are you okay, honey? 
Suddenly, the little girl jumps onto the S.W.A.T. commander, flashing a glove of knives.  She hisses: 
LITTLE GIRL HOSTAGE Freddy lives! 
With a quick swing, the little girl slashes the commander's face.  She dives back for a plunge to his throat when Murdoch walks up and kicks her off. He puts his boot on her, holding her down as he takes aim on her head with his pistol -- execution style. 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER NO! 
PHOOMPH!!! -- the flash bulb goes off with an atomic light.  Meagan screams as her skeleton is blown back against the blackboard -- vaporized! 
HARD CUT TO: 
Meagan waking up in her seat suddenly.  The classroom as normal.  Miss Krepps is standing over her, asking: 
MISS KREPPS Meagan? Meagan?! 
Meagan looks around, bewildered and confused. 
MISS KREPPS (continuing) I asked if you were ready to give your report? 
Meagan realizes that she was dreaming and pulls herself together. 
MEAGAN Sure... 
Meagan stands up and faints. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. SCHOOL NURSE'S OFFICE - MINUTES LATER 
MEAGAN'S P.O.V as the SCHOOL NURSE comes into FOCUS, standing over her. 
SCHOOL NURSE Meagan? Can you hear me? Do you know where you are? 
Meagan is laying on a couch, a cloth over her head. 
MEAGAN I was day dreaming and then I woke up but then it was like I was still dreaming and then I woke up and then I guess I fainted and now I'm awake again... 
SCHOOL NURSE Are you sure? 
Meagan stares at the nurse for a moment. 
SCHOOL NURSE (continuing) Meagan? 
MEAGAN I'm waiting to see if you're going to turn into Freddy. 
SCHOOL NURSE Freddy... I see. You've been watching too much CNN. That crazy "Freddy" cult thing -- it's all over the TV day and night -- you can't get away from it. No wonder you kids are all having nightmares. 
MEAGAN But this one was different... it felt real. 
SCHOOL NURSE But that's just it, Meagan... dreams aren't real. They're just broken fragments of the subconscious mind. 
MEAGAN Fear is real though, isn't it? And if nightmares are fear, then doesn't that make them real?! (gets excited) And if the nightmares are real then is reality like a dream?! 
SCHOOL NURSE (cutting her off) Meagan! You've got heat prostration... that's all. 
The nurse slaps a wet towel over her face. 
INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER 
Jesse is waiting for Meagan as she emerges from the nurse's office, muttering under her breath: 
MEAGAN Old witch... what does she know? She isn't even qualified to give a shot and she's telling me that my dreams aren't anything to worry about. 
JESSE So she said you were okay? 
MEAGAN Oh, sure... Madame Curie in there says it's just a case of heat pro- stration and an overdose of TV news. Ruined my makeup, too. 
JESSE So you're going back to class? 
MEAGAN No. She gave me last period off. 
JESSE Well, what are you bitching about? I could have a compound fracture of the skull and she wouldn't excuse me from P.E. 
MEAGAN Jesse! I've been having nightmares for almost two weeks now and they keep getting worse! Now I'm having daymares! I want to know why! 
JESSE Okay... well, didn't the nurse say it was heat probation? 
Meagan rolls her eyes in frustration. 
MEAGAN You don't understand... I want to know more about dreams. What they mean... why we have them. 
JESSE Okay, Meg, go look it up. You've got the rest of the day off, that's all I'm saying. 
MEAGAN That's a good idea. Why don't you cut last period and come with me? 
LIZZY No they won't, because I'm walkin' home! 
Lizzy gets to her feet and starts walking.  Leonard calls after her: 
LEONARD Come back, Lizzy! You can wait with me! I got forgot too, you know! 
Lizzy keeps going, marching across the deserted school yard.  Leonard turns to go inside the school when he bumps into a passing CULTIST.  The cultist pushes him down as he follows after Lizzy. 
LEONARD (continuing) Okay... I'm going to have to report this! 
Lizzy walks briskly along when she gets the feeling she's being followed.  She turns and sees a cultist standing behind a tree several dozen yards behind her. Lizzy turns away and quickens her pace but when she glances back, the figure is still standing... but closer. 
Scared, Lizzy turns and runs, dropping her books as she flees down the sidewalk.  As she comes to the street, a big black hearse suddenly pulls up in front of her, the door swinging open wide.  Burned arms reach out to grab Lizzy.  She screams. 
The cultists grab Lizzy, pulling her into the car as it roars off down the street. 
CLOSE ON RAGGEDY ANN -- laying in the gutter. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MEAGAN'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON 
Jesse's car pulls up to a sea of police cars parked in front of Meagan's house.  Meagan gets out of the car and rushes inside. 
INT. MEAGAN'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS ACTION 
COPS are everywhere as Meagan bursts into the house, calling for her family.  Jesse enters behind her when Meagan's dad comes up, asking: 
MEAGAN'S DAD Didn't you get my message? 
MEAGAN What message? 
MEAGAN'S DAD I called the school after lunch... I had to stay late after work... I... 
Meagan's mother bellows from the living room where she is talking to a policeman taking notes.  She is drunk and has been crying. 
MEAGAN'S MOM Don't you dare blame this on her, you sorry bastard! It's all your fault! (to Meagan) Where have you been anyway? 
MEAGAN The library. 
MEAGAN'S MOM A likely Goddamn story! 
Meagan's mom breaks down sobbing. 
MEAGAN Dad... what's wrong? What's happened? Where's Lizzy? 
MEAGAN'S DAD She didn't come home from school today. The police got a report that a girl fitting Lizzy's description was forced into a car by some crazies. They're pretty sure it was this "Freddy" cult. 
MEAGAN (shocked) Oh, my God... 
Meagan's dad puts his arm around Meagan and tries to comfort her. 
MEAGAN'S DAD Now don't worry. The police are doing everything they can. 
Meagan looks over and sees Murdoch talking to his men when a voice from upstairs calls down: 
TROOPER (O.S.) Hey, Cap'n... better have a look up here! 
INT. LIZZY'S ROOM - NEXT SECOND 
As Murdoch enters, he spots Lizzy's night table and the small glass menagerie there.  Murdoch picks up the unicorn and admires it when a TROOPER draws his attention to the floor next to the bed. 
Laying there are several childlike drawings of Freddy, including one that has "Freddy Lives" scrawled across the top. 
Meagan enters and sees the drawings.  She gasps. 
TROOPER Looks like she was in the cult all along. 
MEAGAN No... no, she wouldn't do that! Lizzy wouldn't join Freddy's cult! 
TROOPER I know it's hard to believe, miss. But a lot of good kids get caught up in this kind of trouble. 
Murdoch stares at the drawings, his jaw muscles tightening.  He clenches his fist, pulverizing the little unicorn. 
MURDOCH Punks... 
Murdoch drops the broken pieces of the unicorn on the table as he exits the room, brushing past Meagan. 
STORMIE How will they ever know? Don't be such a pussy! 
JESSE Oh, yeah? Why don't you call then? 
STORMIE Okay, I will! 
MEAGAN No! They'll never believe her! 
STORMIE I can disguise my voice... (lowers voice) Hello, how do you do? My name is Jesse. I think I'm a man but I'm actually a wimp. 
MEAGAN They'll never believe that. Come on, Jesse... for me? 
JESSE Okay... okay... I'll do it. (to Stormie) And I'm not a wimp! 
Jesse sighs and steps into the phone booth.  After a moment's hesitation, Jesse steps out and immediately both girls blurt out ten reasons why he should make the call.  Jesse calls for quiet and as soon as both girls shut up, he says: 
JESSE (continuing) I need a quarter for the phone. 
Meagan fishes out a quarter and hands it to him.  Jesse re-enters the booth. 
ANGLE IN PHONE BOOTH as Jesse dials a number. 
INT. SPRINGWOOD MENTAL CENTER - NEXT INSTANT 
The security guard picks up his phone as it RINGS. 
SECURITY GUARD Springwood Mental Center... how can I help you? 
JESSE (filtered; disguising his voice) There's a bomb planted in your building. 
SECURITY GUARD Who is this? 
JESSE If I were you -- I'd get my ass out of there. 
In the background, we hear Meagan and Stormie whisper something to Jesse. 
JESSE (continuing; adding) Oh, yeah... Freddy Lives. 
CLICK! -- The guard's eyes grow wide. 
EXT. SPRINGWOOD MENTAL CENTER - AFTERNOON -SECONDS LATER 
The peaceful quiet of the asylum is shattered by a fire ALARM.  Soon all the INMATES start filing out into the yard, loosely herded by the GUARDS.  Erwin files out with the others, still wearing his straight jacket. 
Erwin looks over at the parking lot -- Jesse's car flashes it's lights.  Erwin starts to casually wander off towards the fence between himself and freedom when the SECURITY GUARD spots him and says: 
SECURITY GUARD Hey, Erwin... where do you think you're going? 
Erwin ignores him, still moving towards the fence. 
SECURITY GUARD (continuing) I'm talking to you, asshole! 
Erwin breaks into a run.  The guard takes off after him. 
In the car, Jesse, Meagan, and Stormie watch as the guard closes the distance. 
JESSE He's not going to make it. 
MEAGAN We've got to do something! 
With grim determination, Jesse starts his car. 
Jesse's car tears out of the parking lot, racing for the fence.  With a loud, metallic CHING, Jesse's car drives into the fence, knocking that section down. Erwin dances over the downed chain-link, diving into an open window.  Then, with a SQUEAL of tires and the RENDING of metal, Jesse's car backs out of the fence, does a 180, and PEELS off. 
ANGLE INSIDE CAR as Stormie and Meagan help Erwin out of his straight jacket.  Once freed, Erwin extends his hand to Jesse. 
ERWIN Hi, my name's Erwin. Thanks for busting me out of there! 
Jesse looks at Erwin's outstretched hand -- the fingertips are all heavily bandaged. 
JESSE Yeah, right... Look, Erwin, just do me one favor -- don't eat nothing disgusting. My stomach is tight enough as it is. 
The security guard runs up to the fence, huffing and puffing, watching as Jesse's car disappears down the street.  Then he spots something in the fence and plucks it out... 
Jesse's front license plate. 
CUT TO: 
MEAGAN What should we do? 
ERWIN Have a seat over there and make yourselves comfortable. Roll up your sleeves and put these on... 
Erwin hands Meagan and Stormie each a pair of the sunglasses with flashing red diodes in each lens. Stormie puts hers on immediately and says: 
STORMIE Oh, cool! 
MEAGAN What are they for? 
ERWIN It's how the cult keeps in constant contact with Freddy. The little lights flashing are a sustained occular input that causes your brain to resonate at approximately the same frequency at which the dream state is most likely to occur. 
All of this went over Meagan's head.  Stormie shrugs: 
STORMIE Whatever... (to Meagan; excited) Put 'em on -- they're really cool! 
Meagan and Stormie sit down in easy chairs, rolling up their sleeves.  Erwin comes over and reclines the chairs, giving each girl an injection.  Then Erwin takes a seat next to Meagan and injects himself.  He lets the syringe drop to the floor as he lowers his glasses. 
ERWIN It helps to hold hands if you want to go together... 
Meagan clasps hands with Erwin and Stormie.  Jesse watches with skepticism and concern.  Erwin ushers a final warning: 
ERWIN (continuing) And remember... Freddy knows what scares you. 
Then all three FALL THROUGH their chairs into... 
INT. DREAMSPACE - CONTINUOUS ACTION 
Meagan, Stormie, and Erwin falling through dreamspace (fantastic digital effect tunnel), still holding hands. The girls scream as Erwin smiles and yells: 
ERWIN WHAT A RUSH, HUH?!! 
INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - SAME TIME 
Jesse watches over Meagan, Stormie, and Erwin -- all asleep in their chairs. 
INT. NIGHTMARE BOILER ROOM - NEXT MOMENT 
Meagan, Stormie, and Erwin fall into a crazy night- mare boiler room (visually reminiscent of the Freddy pictures) with rusty catwalks, huge out-of-proportion fixtures above and a sea of boiling water below.  As they get to their feet, Meagan hears Lizzy's voice: 
LIZZY (distant) Meagan... help me... please... 
Meagan enters a shaft, following the sound when suddenly, the shaft closes up behind her.  Stormie and Erwin try to find the opening again but can't. 
ERWIN Freddy's trying to split us up... 
INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - SAME TIME 
Jesse is standing in front of an old, full length mirror, practicing drawing the pistol.  He pulls it and pretends to fire, blowing imaginary smoke from the muzzle as he says: 
JESSE Okay, Freddy... there's a new sheriff in Dreamland now. 
INT. NIGHTMARE BOILER ROOM - NEXT MOMENT 
Stormie and Erwin make their way through the creepy boiler room, calling for Meagan.  A strange shadow stalks them -- it's Freddy.  He drops down in front of Erwin and Stormie. 
FREDDY Looking for some-body? 
Freddy opens up his shirt to reveal a chest full of lost souls.  In the center -- Meagan.  Stormie charges Freddy, throwing her arms around him as she screams to Erwin: 
STORMIE I've got him! Wake us up! Wake us up! 
But Erwin is paralyzed with fear. 
STORMIE (continuing) Don't just stand there! Wake us up! 
FREDDY Hmmmmm... I feel like seafood tonight. 
Suddenly, Stormie's arms have become huge lobster claws.  She jerks away from Freddy, but too late -- Stormie starts to change into a giant lobster-woman! Freddy smiles -- now he's wearing a chef's hat and apron. 
FREDDY (continuing) Stew on this, bitch! 
Freddy knocks the lobster-woman over the side.  She falls into the boiling water far below -- KER-SPLASH! 
HARD CUT TO: 
INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - NEXT INSTANT 
STORMIE He killed me, too. But look... 
Stormie raises her shirt up to show Meagan she is unharmed.  Erwin sneaks a look and Stormie smacks him. Meagan gets to her feet, asking: 
MEAGAN Now that I think about it -- he's killed me in all my nightmares. But I'm not dead... what does it mean? 
ERWIN It means we've still got some time left. Until his remains are host to the Dream Demons -- Freddy can't hurt us. 
JESSE Hello. The Dream Demons...? 
ERWIN Freddy made a pact with Satan when he died... so Satan bestowed upon him the Dream Demons. They're the source of Freddy's power to manipulate our physical reality. Without them... he's powerless -- nothing more than a bad dream. (off Jesse's cynical look) Hey, like I said... I don't make the rules. 
MEAGAN But we've still got a chance, right? A chance to kill Freddy before he gets back his power? 
ERWIN We already tried that. There's no way for us to kill Freddy. He's too clever. He knows how to get to us. 
MEAGAN Then let's get somebody else. Some- body strong. 
STORMIE Yeah! We could hire somebody to kill Freddy -- like a hit man! 
ERWIN You would have to hire a thousand of them... or one really big guy who isn't afraid of anything. No fear. Nada. Then you got a shot. 
JESSE Where are you going to find a hit man? The yellow pages? In your dreams... 
Jesse's last three words strike Meagan like a thunder- bolt and she stammers out a name: 
MEAGAN Jason... 
JESSE Jason? 
MEAGAN Jason Voorhees... 
ERWIN (brightens) Jason Voorhees... that's brilliant! The perfect dream warrior... no fear. 
STORMIE Sounds like our man! 
JESSE Uh... excuse me, Einstein... but isn't Jason Voorhees dead? 
ERWIN Seriously dead. Buried up by Crystal Lake somewhere. But don't worry, I know how to bring him back to life. 
JESSE Somehow I just knew you would. 
ERWIN But that's not the problem. The problem is control. Once we bring Jason back from the dead... I'm not one hundred percent sure he'll do what we tell him. 
STORMIE Well, that's okay... as long as he doesn't chop us all up. 
Erwin rolls his eyes around -- uncertain. 
MEAGAN Erwin... I'm trusting you on this, so tell me the truth. Do you think if we do this -- if we go and get Jason and bring him back to life, that he could kill Freddy? 
ERWIN No doubt about. Jason could wreck Freddy on this side of the Dreamline. But if Freddy has home court advan- tage... I don't know. Too close to call. The trick would be to get Jason to enter a dream state, grab Freddy, and drag him out to our reality. 
MEAGAN I haven't got a choice. I've got to try something... (turns to Stormie & Jesse) I can't ask either of you to help me do this... it's illegal, immoral, disgusting... 
STORMIE Hey, we sisters have to stand together, right? Where you lead -- I'll follow. Count me in. 
Meagan embraces Stormie, then all three turn to Jesse. He looks them over and sighs: 
JESSE Let me get this straight... we're going to go dig one dead maniac up to fight another dead maniac? 
ERWIN That's about the size of it... and I'd be doing you a disservice if I said there weren't a modicum of risk involved. 
JESSE Meagan... I don't want to do this... 
MEAGAN You don't have to, Jesse... it's not your fight. I understand. 
JESSE But I damn sure don't want you to do it without me. Count me in. 
Meagan hugs Jesse.  Erwin tries to hug Stormie but she pushes him away. 
ERWIN Look out Freddy... here we come. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. SPRINGWOOD AUTO YARD - NIGHT 
In his shack, listening to a small portable radio, is the NIGHT WATCHMAN.  His small DOG suddenly perks up her ears and GROWLS low.  The watchman turns down the radio. 
CRAZY OL' COOT You're not goin' up there to do somethin' stupid, are you? 
JESSE (laughs; nervous) Stupid? Like what? 
CRAZY OL' COOT Like dig up Jason Voorhees -- that's what! 
Everyone in the car takes a sharp breath -- cold busted!  Then they start saying "No! No!" and shaking their heads innocently in a big performance that wouldn't fool a stick. 
JESSE (looks at Meagan) Jesus... why would anyone do that? 
CRAZY OL' COOT I dunno... but people do. 
STORMIE Been dug up a few times already, has he? 
CRAZY OL' COOT More times than I care to remember. 
MEAGAN Well, we're just doing an article for our high school newspaper about the dangers of breaking into cemeteries at night. You know, stuff that can get you hurt... 
The ol' coot scans the foursome again closely as he acquiesces. 
CRAZY OL' COOT Well... okay... as long as you're not going up there to do something stupid. (pointing) Take this road up about a mile and make a left at the ol' saw mill. That road will take you right on in... Eternal Peace Cemetery -- can't miss it. 
Jesse is already standing on the gas, leaving the ol' coot standing in a cloud of smoke and dust. 
EXT. ETERNAL PEACE CEMETERY - NIGHT 
Headlights skew across a rusty iron gateway -- ETERNAL PEACE CEMETERY -- illuminating a sign: TRESPASSERS WILL BE SHOT! 
Meagan, Jesse, Stormie, and Erwin enter the shadowy cemetery carrying lamps with shovels over their shoulders.  As they search through the cemetery, Meagan asks: 
MEAGAN What's the story on Jason Voorhees anyway? 
STORMIE Where have you been? Jason was that guy who ran around in a hockey mask, chopping up camp counselors, duh? 
MEAGAN I knew that. What I mean was why? 
ERWIN It started a long time ago, back in the fifties, when Jason drown at Camp Crystal Lake. His mother went berserk and started killing the counselors. 
STORMIE She got her head chopped off by one of the girls she was trying to kill! 
ERWIN Right. And then Jason came back from his watery grave to get revenge. 
JESSE He came back from the grave? 
ERWIN Yeah. Chopped up a number of people before they finally caught up to him. 
MEAGAN What happened to him then? 
ERWIN They killed him. 
JESSE How can you kill somebody who's back from the grave? 
ERWIN Not very well apparently. Jason keeps coming back to life and chopping people up. It's a never ending cycle of terror up here at Crystal Lake -- a real problem. 
MEAGAN Why does he keep coming back to life and killing people? 
ERWIN They say he's looking for revenge on the camp counselor who murdered him as a child. Jason just happens to go about it in the socially unacceptable way of hacking through every teenager he finds until he gets the right one. (spots grave) Here it is... 
Erwin shines his light on Jason's grave. 
ANGLE ON TOMBSTONE -- JASON VOORHEES. Born:1945. Died:1953. 
Beneath the death date, crudely scratched into the stone: 1981, 1982, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1988, etc. 
Jesse and Erwin start digging. 
ELLIPSIS -- cemetery statues watching them dig. Stormie and Meagan take their turn.  Then... Jesse hits something solid. 
Hands brush away the remaining dirt, exposing the coffin below.  Jesse takes a sharp breath and then jams a crowbar under the lid -- forcing it open. 
The casket lid cracks open a bit when -- SSSSSS! -- noxious gas escapes.  Everyone covers their mouth and nose, suppressing the urge to hurl. 
Then roaches... hundreds of roaches. 
Meagan and Stormie run off, screaming, batting at their hair and clothing.  Jesse rolls around on the ground.  Erwin sighs, plucks a roach off his shirt, and calmly eats it. 
CUT TO: 
WHAM!  SPARKS fly.  Everyone screams.  Freddy laughs as he falls back for another shot.  Meagan sees the dozens of lost souls trapped in the back of the night- maremobile, staring out at her through the back window. A small yellow sign reads:  LOST SOULS ON BOARD. 
Jesse fights to keep the car on the road when suddenly, the pieces of Jason ATTACK, BURSTING from behind the back seat.  One hand crawls up the back of the front seat, leaping onto Jesse's throat.  Jason's intestines EXPLODE out of the backseat, SLITHERING and SNAKING their way around Stormie and Erwin.  One of Jason's boots wiggles under the seat, making it's way towards the gas peddle.  The other boot is content to lay under the back window and kick Erwin in the head. 
As Meagan fights to pull Jason's hand of Jesse's face, she looks down and sees Jason's other hand between her legs.  Meagan screams. 
Jason's boot stomps on the gas and Jesse's car lurches forward with the acceleration. The nightmaremobile SLAMS into the side of Jesse's car again, causing it to swerve violently from side to side. 
Inside the nightmaremobile, Freddy pulls another lever. 
CLOSE ON THE NIGHTMAREMOBILE FENDER as a panel opens up and a circular sawblade arm extends out, CUTTING into Jesse's car with a flurry of SPARKS.  Inside, Meagan screams as the saw blade just misses her leg, CUTTING forward towards... 
CLOSE ON JESSE'S FRONT TIRE as the saw blade CUTS into it.  The tire BLOWS and Jesse's car lurches off the road, veering into a tree line. 
CRASH! -- Jesse's car plows fender-first into a tree, the HORN stuck on, BLARING. 
Freddy laughs and kicks the nightmaremobile into overdrive, ROARING OFF and disappearing with an EXPLOSION of FIRE that wisps away in an instant. 
In the distance -- an old farmhouse.  The lights go on inside. 
The passenger door opens and Meagan falls out onto the ground, bleeding from a slight scalp wound.  A rear door opens and Stormie and Erwin spill out, locked in embrace and not seriously hurt.  Meagan staggers around to the driver's side and opens the door.  Jesse is laying unconscious against the steering wheel. Meagan pulls him off the wheel and the HORN stops. Jesse is splattered with blood and his leg is a mess. 
MEAGAN (continuing) Jesse's hurt real bad... we've got to get him to a doctor. 
Through the farmhouse window, Erwin and Stormie see the farmer on the phone. 
ERWIN Don't worry... an ambulance is on the way. 
Meagan cradles Jesse's head in her hands, crying: 
MEAGAN Oh, God... Jesse... 
Erwin goes to the trunk and opens it.  Inside -- the garbage bags with Jason's remains still inside -- untouched.  Erwin goes to Meagan and says: 
ERWIN Meagan... listen to me... The cops are on their way. If they find me and Jason Voorhees in the trunk there, we're finished. 
MEAGAN Go... get out of here. Take Jason and Stormie with you. 
STORMIE I'm staying with you. 
Erwin grabs the trash bags out of the trunk and says: 
ERWIN I'll call you at the hospital. 
STORMIE How? 
ERWIN Somehow! 
Erwin takes off, disappearing with Jason's remains into the night as SIRENS WAIL in the distance -- growing close. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HOSPITAL - JESSE'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Jesse is laying in a hospital bed, his leg in a special tent.  Meagan and Stormie watch from the doorway as a DOCTOR checks Jesse's vitals.  As he finishes, Meagan asks: 
MEAGAN Is he going to be okay? 
DOCTOR Yes. But he needs a lot of rest. His leg is broken in four places and he has four broken ribs and a concussion. 
Meagan sits down next to Jesse, taking his hand. Stormie turns to the doctor. 
STORMIE Hey doc, is there someplace I could get us something to eat? 
DOCTOR I'm afraid the cafeteria is closed. There are some vending machines in the lobby. (to Meagan) I'll be back to check on him in a couple of hours. 
The doctor exits. 
STORMIE I'll be right back... I'm goin' go score us some munchies. 
Meagan nods weakly.  Stormie exits.  Meagan lays her head on Jesse's hand. 
INT. HOSPITAL LOBBY - MOMENTS LATER 
Stormie is getting several bags of munchies out of the vending machine when she turns and sees Murdoch at the information booth, flashing photos of Jesse and Erwin. 
Stormie dashes for the staircase. 
Then a VOICE on the P.A. says: 
VOICE (filtered) Attention. Would Meagan or Stormie please pick up the white paging phone for a message? 
Stormie and Meagan exchange worrisome looks.  The announcement repeats itself again.  Then again. Stormie can't stand it anymore -- she stands up and picks up the white paging phone. 
STORMIE (into phone) This is Stormie... 
Murdoch and his men come running past the nurse's station again.  Stormie turns her back to them but Murdoch goes back to the nurse's station, asking: 
MURDOCH Did you see a couple of girls go by here a moment ago? 
Stormie gestures to the elevators. 
STORMIE Just missed 'em. 
Murdoch nods a quick thanks and takes off with his men right behind.  Stormie exhales a giant sigh of relief as the HOSPITAL OPERATOR says: 
HOSPITAL OPERATOR (filtered) The message is from Erwin... he says to meet him at the side entrance in two minutes. 
Stormie hangs up and grabs Meagan, running for the staircase. 
EXT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER 
Stormie drags Meagan out of the hospital just as Erwin pulls up in an old battered pick-up truck. He throws open the door and Stormie pushes Meagan inside, climbing in after her and asking: 
STORMIE Where'd you get the truck? 
ERWIN Same place I've got Jason hid. 
STORMIE And where's that? 
ERWIN A place where no one ever goes. 
Stormie closes the door and the pick-up truck ROARS out of the parking lot. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - NIGHT 
The pick-up truck's headlights skew across a weather- worn sign, peppered with bullet holes: CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE 
Erwin drives the truck through the deserted camp, past the cabins, down towards the lake.  He stops a short distance away from the pier and the three of them climb out. 
Meagan is still in shock, letting Stormie guide her as Erwin leads them down the pier to a small diving platform tied up to the end. 
STORMIE What'd you do -- take him for a swim? 
ERWIN Almost. 
Erwin jumps down on the diving platform.  In the center, a large form is covered by a tarp.  Erwin helps Stormie down onto the platform, leaving Meagan standing on the pier.  She looks out over the lake -- eyes vacant. Erwin moves close to Stormie and, gesturing to Meagan, asks: 
ERWIN (continuing) Is she going to be alright? 
STORMIE I don't know. She's pretty fucked up. God, I don't know why I'm not... 
ERWIN You're a strong woman. 
STORMIE What's that supposed to mean? 
ERWIN Uhhh... nothing. I didn't mean anything. 
Stormie gestures to the tarp. 
STORMIE Is this him? 
ERWIN Yeah... (whips back tarp) Meet the new and improved Jason. 
ANGLE ON JASON laying spread eagle on the diving platform, cocooned in chicken wire with dozens of coiled leads trailing off into the water.  Erwin has done a good job of sewing Jason back together with barbed wire and fishing line.  His arms and legs have been reinforced with steel braces and even Jason's mask has been repaired, stitched down the middle with bailing wire.  Jason looks nineties... and butch. 
STORMIE Why'd you put that stupid mask on him? 
ERWIN Take a look... 
Stormie bends down and takes a peek under the mask and quickly replaces it. 
STORMIE Good idea. 
STORMIE He's head right for her! Do some- thing! 
Erwin panics for a moment, then HONKS the HORN. 
INT. MORGUE - NEXT MOMENT 
Meagan is trying to pull Jesse's heart out of his chest but it just won't come, some vein or muscle fiber keeps pulling it back.  She jumps at the HORN, then starts pulling harder. 
In the hallway just outside, the guard hears the HORN and stops.  He starts back for the front, when suddenly the HORN stops. 
Meagan hacks at the last bits of stringy goo that cling to Jesse's heart.  As the last strand goes, Meagan tumbles backwards to the floor with a loud THUD. 
The guard hears that and turns back towards the morgue, drawing his gun.  He tip-toes to the door and carefully unlocks it, leaving his keys in the lock.  Taking a two-handed Weaver stance, the guard raises his foot and kicks the door. 
WHACK! -- the door flies open and the guard leaps inside like Marshall Dillon, snapping on the lights. He gasps, eyes going wide as he scans the room.  One of the drawers is open... the stiff's chest has got a huge hole in it... blood spattered everywhere... a bunch of bloody footprints leading over to the cabinet... 
Suddenly, the guard sees Meagan half out the window and cries: 
GUARD Stop right there! 
Meagan rolls out of the window just as the guard FIRES. The unbroken section of the window SHATTERS.  The guard curses and races for the... 
EXT. MORGUE - SECONDS LATER 
The guard comes running out just in time to see Meagan close the passenger door and the truck ROAR away.  He shrinks, dejected -- no way to catch them now.  The guard heads back inside to report this mess and finds that the door has closed and locked behind him. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ETERNAL PEACE CEMETERY - NIGHT 
The crazy ol' coot is leading Murdoch through the cemetery. 
CRAZY OL' COOT They said they were writin' for some newspaper... 
MURDOCH Teenagers are notorious liars. 
CRAZY OL' COOT Well, after I heard about the accident on my police scanner, I came up here to have a look. When I found it I figured you'd want to know right away. 
MURDOCH You did the right thing. 
The ol' coot shines his light down into Jason's empty grave. 
CRAZY OL' COOT Damn kids... I just knew they were comin' up here to do somethin' stupid. 
The S.W.A.T. commander comes up to Murdoch. 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER Just got a call on the radio -- three juveniles just broke into the morgue -- one male, two female. The guard is pretty sure the male is in the Freddy cult -- burnt face. 
CRAZY OL' COOT Sounds like the same kids I saw. 
MURDOCH Did the guard say what they took? 
S.W.A.T. COMMANDER Yeah... that murdered kid, Jesse -- they carved his heart out. (beat) They got away in a pick-up -- the guard didn't get the license. You want me to put out an A.P.B.? 
MURDOCH No... that won't be necessary. I know just where they're going, and just what they're up to. And this time... I'll be ready. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - NIGHT 
Meagan sits on the end of the pier, watching silently as Erwin sews Jesse's heart into Jason's chest using dental floss.  Stormie comes up behind her and puts her jacket around Meagan's shoulders, sits down beside her and says: 
STORMIE You've got to quit blaming your- self for what happened to Jesse... it wasn't your fault. 
MEAGAN He didn't want to come with us... but he did anyway. He did it for me. 
STORMIE I'm not sorry I came... I don't think Jesse would be, either. 
MEAGAN I just can't believe he's dead. I keep thinking he'll show up any minute... 
ERWIN Well, that just about does it... 
Erwin finishes sewing up Jason and climbs back onto the pier, cutting the diving platform free.  He kicks it off and it floats out into the lake, drifting free. Then Erwin herds the girls down the shore, leading them over to where a short trench has been dug leading from the water's edge. 
In the bottom of the trench -- an uncovered power cable. 
ERWIN (continuing) As you can see, I've excavated the power cable that runs across the bottom of Crystal Lake. I've cut away the insulation, exposing a patch of cable right near the water's edge. 
HEAD COUNSELOR Welcome aboard, son! I'm sure you'll have a great time! 
CUT TO: 
The other KIDS dance around Jason, taunting him... laughing at him... pointing and teasing... Jason breaks away, running towards the pier. 
Jason sits at the end of the pier, looking at his own reflection.  He removes the mask and watches as the distortions in the water make his face look normal. 
Someone comes up behind Jason slowly.  Jason isn't aware of their presence until a shadowy reflection appears behind his own.  Jason turns to see who when he is suddenly pushed into the lake. 
Jason splashes to the surface, sputtering, trying to stay afloat.  A hand pushes his head back under the water. 
JASON'S UNDERWATER P.O.V. -- a distorted image of whoever is holding him under. 
Jason thrusts out his arms, fighting to get back to the surface... fighting just to see who is killing him before he dies. 
HARD CUT TO: 
EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - NIGHT 
Jason comes alive, thrashing around on the diving dock, the electricity all over him like a spider web. On shore, Erwin and the girls gasp. 
ERWIN Holy shit! It worked! 
Meagan and Stormie bounce, excitedly.  But something is wrong.  Jason thrashes around on the dock, unable to break the crisscross of high voltage chicken wire. 
MEAGAN It's kill him! Shut it off! Shut it off! 
ERWIN Shut it off... it suddenly occurs to me that I hadn't really planned for that contingency. 
STORMIE Just don't stand there! Do something! 
But all Erwin can do is scratch his head.  Meagan rushes to the shore line and screams out over the lake: 
MEAGAN Jason! JASON! You've got to get up! Do you hear me? Get up! 
Jason clenches his meaty fists and SLAMS them down against the diving dock. SMASHING it to bits.  Water rushes over him and -- ZZZZT! KA-POW! 
A power transformer on shore EXPLODES, causing Meagan and her friends to cringe.  When they look back, the electrical light show fades away, leaving nothing but smoke and floating debris.  Meagan and Stormie turn to Erwin, who shrugs shyly and says: 
ERWIN Well... it's off now. 
Meagan and Stormie begin a verbal barrage that would shrink any man to pus... much less Erwin.  He cowers between them, offering quick excuses and humble apologies. 
All three are so wrapped up in laying blame that they never notice Jason's shadowy figure as it rises from the lake. 
Then they do see him... scream and run.  Jason charges after the kids in his familiar "unstoppable killer" gait. 
Erwin ducks inside the tool shed as Meagan and Stormie dash past.  He closes the door behind him and squirms out a tiny window just as Jason kicks open the door and steps inside.  Erwin races around to the front and closes the door.  He fastens the latch and padlock, then calls to the girls: 
ERWIN (continuing) Hey! Come back! I've got him locked up in the tool shed! 
Just then, the SOUND of a CHAINSAW as the blade RIPS through the tool shed door.  Erwin screams like a girl and runs away. 
INT. MAIN CABIN - CONTINUOUS ACTION 
Meagan and Stormie run into the main room.  Stormie spots a phone and goes to it, dialing frantically. 
MEAGAN Who are you calling?! 
STORMIE The cops! Who else?! 
MEAGAN Are you kidding?! They'll lock us up and throw away the key! 
STORMIE Fine by me! (clicks the receiver) Damnit! It's dead! 
Just then, Erwin bursts into the cabin, slamming the door shut behind him. 
ERWIN He's right behind me! 
Stormie and Meagan look out the window -- sure enough, Jason is storming towards them, holding the chainsaw. 
STORMIE (to Erwin) You're the one who brought him back to life! 
ERWIN And?! 
STORMIE Well, do something! 
MURDOCH (continuing; into radio) Let her go. 
EXT. 60,000 FEET ABOVE CRYSTAL LAKE - NEXT SECOND 
A military jet flying above drops it's payload -- a laser-guided napalm bomb. 
EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - SAME TIME 
A slight WHISTLE sound grows in the skies above Camp Crystal Lake.  Jason looks up. 
SMART BOMB P.O.V. as it drops down on Jason -- homing in on the laser dot on his chest. 
BA-BOOM! -- Camp Crystal Lake EXPLODES in flames. All the cops take cover as FIRE RAINS DOWN on them. Only Murdoch stands his ground, his arms outstretched as he embraces the terrible sight. 
MURDOCH That'll teach you to fuck with the law, Voorhees! 
A cop behind him says: 
COP Uhh, sir... your hat's on fire. 
Murdoch looks up -- sure enough, his Smokey Bear hat is burning above the brim. 
Meagan watches as Camp Crystal Lake is consume in flames, her last hope of saving Lizzy -- gone.  Then a cop shoves her into a police car with Stormie. Erwin is put into another car and the three exchange worrisome looks through the windows just before the cars pull away. 
As the cops start to pull out, one of them notices something moving amidst the flames -- a large BURNING form, walking towards the lake.  As it stumbles out onto the pier, the cop turns to his partner and says: 
CURIOUS COP Hey... do you see that? 
But just then, the form falls through the BURNING pier, SPLASHING into the water below.  The partner looks, sees nothing, and shrugs. 
PARTNER See what? 
CURIOUS COP I thought I saw something... 
He shrugs it off and exits after his partner. 
Murdoch, his hat still smoking a little, surveys the sight one last time before climbing into his patrol car and driving away. 
CUT TO: 
INT. POLICE STATION - CELLBLOCK - NIGHT 
A cell door SLAMS in front of Stormie's face. A cell door SLAMS in front of Meagan's face.  Both girls are behind bars, separated by a cement wall.  The hefty female DEPUTY in charge of the cellblock goes back to her desk. 
Both girls stand in their cells next to eachother, watching as the deputy goes back to her desk and begins to devour three combo-burritos. 
MEAGAN We've got to try and stay awake. 
STORMIE Getting something to eat might help. (calls to Deputy) Yo, Butch! 
DEPUTY MILLER It's Deputy Miller. 
STORMIE Excuse me, Deputy Miller but could we have something to eat? 
DEPUTY MILLER I thought you psychos only ate human hearts? 
STORMIE And I thought you pigs only ate donuts. 
DEPUTY MILLER Don't make me come back there. 
STORMIE (low; to Meagan) Cow! I hope she chokes on her three combo-burrito cud! 
Meagan leans up against the wall, sliding down to the floor in defeat. 
MEAGAN What am I going to do? I'll never be able to find Lizzy now. 
STORMIE You should be worrying about your- self... I know I am. 
Stormie plops down on her cot. 
MEAGAN I bet you're sorry you came with me now... 
STORMIE Nah... what are best friends for? Afterall, you stuck by me through all my crazy phases, I figure I owe you one big crazy phase, right? 
MEAGAN That's for being my best friend, Stormie. 
Just then, Deputy Miller steps in front of Meagan's cell, unlocking it. 
INT. FREDDY'S NOSTRIL CAVERN - NEXT SECOND 
Now the size of a flea, Stormie is clinging to one of hundreds of pointed tree trunks jutting out from the circular walls -- Freddy's nose hairs.  Stuck in those humongous hairs are clumps of icky gunk -- boogers. 
Sitting next to Stormie, a particularly large and rotund booger clump opens its eyes and says (in the distorted voice of Harry Manfredini): 
BOOGERMAN Hi there! I'm the Boogerman! Heh- heh... get it? 
Stormie screams, backing up into the "trees", trying to put distance between herself and Boogerman. 
BOOGERMAN (continuing) Aww, don't go... we can play "Star Wars". You can be Princess Leia and I'll be Jabba the Hutt! 
Boogerman licks his fat, nasty lips with a slimy green tongue -- he does kinda look like Jabba.  Stormie screams again. 
INT. POLICE STATION - SAME TIME 
Meagan is getting more and more agitated. 
MEAGAN We're wasting time! We've got to close down all the churches -- Freddy has to marry Lizzy on holy ground! 
Meagan's parents stare at their daughter with confused, frightened looks. 
MEAGAN (continuing) Don't you understand?! He has to come to our reality to do it! It's our last chance to kill him! 
MURDOCH Okay, I think we've heard enough of this crap. Take her back to the lockup. 
A couple of DEPUTIES grab Meagan.  She throws them off and they grab her again, roughly.  Meagan's parents watch in pain and horror as the deputies drag their daughter back to her cell, kicking and screaming. 
MEAGAN Dad! Mom! Don't let them lock me up! I have to save Lizzy! 
MEAGAN'S MOM Oh, Meagan... you're sick. You don't even realize what you've done. 
MEAGAN I did what I had to do to try and save Lizzy! 
MURDOCH Yeah, including murdering your boy- friend and cutting his heart out. 
MEAGAN Liar! Freddy killed Jesse! He was already dead when I cut his heart out! 
Meagan's mom and dad gasp, recoiling with horror. 
MEAGAN (continuing; manic) Goddamnit, you don't understand! Freddy lives! FREDDY LIVES!!! 
Meagan's raving grows faint as she disappears into the cellblock.  Murdoch pulls Meagan's dad aside. 
MURDOCH I know how you must feel... I had a dog once. I loved that dog. I treated her like my own daughter. We went camping, picnics in the park... I even had a little stocking for her nailed up on the mantle for Christmas. Then one day, she bit me... so I had to blow her brains out. (sighs) God, I loved that dog. 
INT. STORMIE'S CELL & NOSTRIL CAVERN - SAME TIME 
Freddy starts to dig in his nose with his forefinger knife. 
A giant knife blade comes charging up the nostril cavern, sending Stormie into hysterics. 
BOOGERMAN Uh-oh, Freddy's picking his nose again -- gotta go! 
Boogerman starts lumbering up into the back of the nostril cavern.  Stormie watches the massive knife blade as it comes right for her, then at the last possible second she starts climbing after Boogerman. She pushes past the disgusting blob of goo, racing ahead. 
BOOGERMAN (continuing) Well, excuse me! 
INSERT -- Freddy pushes the knife way far back into his head. 
The giant knife spears Boogerman in the back, running him through and spilling his "Boogerman" guts out his front.  Stormie gives a little squeal as Boogerman is pulled out, kicking and screaming. 
Freddy withdraws the knife from his nose, peering closely at the tiny Boogerman impaled on the end. He twists his mouth in utter disdain and flicks Booger- man across the cell. 
Boogerman screams as he flies across vast space, smack- ing into the far wall with a giant SPLAT! Boogerman flattens outwards into a thin pancake of Boogerman goo, his nasty head still alive in the center. 
Freddy reaches through the bars of the cell, his arm extending out in a grotesque fashion all the way to the deputy's desk.  He feels around on the table until he touches the pepper shaker, drawing it back into Stormie's cell. 
Freddy sprinkles a small amount of pepper into his right palm and breathes it in deeply -- the specks of pepper becoming rocks that pelt Stormie as she clings to life deep inside the nostril. 
Freddy's face begins to distort, his nose wrinkling up -- the beginnings of a sneeze. 
FREDDY Ahhh... ahhh... ahhh--CHOO! 
Micro-Stormie comes blasting out of Freddy's nose with globules of snot.  She flies across the massive cell, headed directly for the splattered Boogerman, screaming her head off. 
Boogerman sees Stormie racing towards him and he screams too. 
RELIGIOUS ANNOUNCER (filtered) This is Channel 12 -- Station W.G.O.D. -- where the "W" stands for "Worship" And now... "Daily Affirmation" with Reverend Lawrence Lovejoy... 
A shot of the REVEREND LOVEJOY at the podium in his studio, giving kind words of encouragement. 
REVEREND LOVEJOY Good morning, friends... the Good Book says that each morning brings a new light into our lives... 
The good reverend goes on about it always being darkest before the dawn, have faith and your prayers will be answered, etc.  Meagan turns and watches the sunrise -- glorious.  Tears stream down her cheeks.  Then a commercial comes on: 
RELIGIOUS ANNOUNCER (filtered) You can own a videotape of Reverend Lovejoy's Daily Affirmation for only 
CUT TO: 
EXT. RELIGIOUS TV STATION - MORNING 
In his booth at the main gate, the GATE GUARD watches as a procession of hearses approaches.  As the first hearse reaches the gate, the guard steps out and says: 
GATE GUARD Hello. What can I do for you? 
A cultist sticks his head out the window and says: 
CULTIST We're here to see the Reverend Lovejoy. We need him to perform a wedding. 
GATE GUARD Do you have an appointment? 
CULTIST No. I have a Beretta. 
The cultist produces a pistol -- BANG! 
INT. STUDIO - MOMENTS LATER 
The REVEREND LOVEJOY is at his podium, his WIFE at the organ, waiting for the commercial break to be over. The FLOOR MANAGER counts down -- three... two... one... 
BAM! -- the cultists burst into the studio.  The CAMERA OPERATOR and FLOOR MANAGER are killed.  The Reverend Lovejoy and his WIFE, at the organ, are taken hostage. 
INT. POLICE STATION - CELLBLOCK - SAME TIME 
ANGLE ON TV as the cultists take the reverend and his wife hostage.  Meagan watches, suddenly perplexed. 
INT. STUDIO - NEXT SECOND 
The cultists break into the control room, killing the DIRECTOR and STAFF.  One slips into the sound booth, garroting the RELIGIOUS ANNOUNCER with a piece of wire. Another SMASHES the control board, killing the signal. All the feed monitors go snowy. 
INT. CELLBLOCK - SAME TIME 
ANGLE ON TV as the picture goes to static.  Just then, the deputy appears in front of Meagan's cell. 
MEAGAN Something just happened at the TV station. 
DEPUTY Don't worry about it -- get undressed. 
MEAGAN What for? 
DEPUTY Time to get you cleaned up for court. 
Meagan looks back at the TV as she slowly starts to get undressed. 
INT. POLICE STATION - SHOWERS - MOMENTS LATER 
The deputy ushers Meagan into the showers.  Inside, a naked group of mean, nasty, ugly JAIL HOUSE BITCHES are showering, washing hairy pits, flabby tattooed skin, and greasy hair.  They eye Meagan like the dessert bar at Denny's as she crosses to the opposite side, sneaking into a corner.  Meagan turns on the shower and drops the towel -- the bitches whistle and catcall. 
Just then, the deputy gets called away, leaving Meagan to the mercy of the bitches.  The head bitch slides over to Meagan and says: 
HEAD BITCH What's the matter, honey... you don't like our company? 
MEAGAN I like you... sure. It's just that I usually shower alone, that's all. 
HEAD BITCH Oh! So you're shy? I like 'em when they're shy... 
The head bitch grabs at Meagan, who resists.  But this bitch is big and tough and holds Meagan by the wrists as she tries to kiss her.  The other bitches laugh. 
HEAD BITCH (continuing) Don't fight it, baby! You know you want me... 
Meagan scratches the head bitch's face.  She backs off screaming, wiping blood from her face.  Then she spits, reaches down (below the frame line) and produces a shiv. 
HEAD BITCH (continuing) If you won't give me a piece then I'll just cut one for myself... 
The head bitch moves in.  Meagan takes a cautious step back, bumping into tile -- nowhere to go.  She holds up her hands. 
REVEREND LOVEJOY And who would be the bride? 
Lizzy is brought forth.  The cultists take her arm and inject her with the dream dope.  Lizzy's head lulls around as she chants softly: 
LIZZY One... two... Freddy's coming for you. 
The rest of the cultists shoot up -- passing the needle from one to another. 
LIZZY (continuing) Three... four... Better lock your door. 
The good reverend watches this with a lump in his throat.  He shudders and asks: 
REVEREND LOVEJOY And the groom. 
CULTIST He's coming... 
Lizzy is almost asleep. 
LIZZY Five... six... grab your crucifix... 
The neon cross behind the podium begins to flicker. Then with a sharp SNAP of electricity, the cross falls over, turning upside down.  It hangs there for an instant then -- POW! -- the cross EXPLODES, catching the curtains on FIRE. 
As the FLAMES consume the curtains, a hole in reality appears -- a Dreamgate.  Freddy comes springing out, leaping in front of the podium.  He laughs and turns to Lizzy, asleep on the bench. 
FREDDY That's for the lift sister! (to the cultists) Hiya, kids! 
CULTISTS (in unison) Hiya, Freddy! 
FREDDY Ready to get hitched? 
CULTISTS Ready, Freddy! 
FREDDY Then let's do it! 
Lizzy looks up and smiles. 
LIZZY I love you, Freddy... 
CUT TO: 
INT. POLICE STATION - AFTERNOON 
A DEPUTY comes up to Murdoch and says: 
DEPUTY We found your patrol car, Captain. It was abandoned near a local religious station. 
MURDOCH Religious station? Is there a padre there? 
DEPUTY Yes, sir. Reverend Lovejoy broad- casts out of that location. 
MURDOCH So that's where they're hiding. 
CUT TO: 
INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME 
Lizzy and Freddy stand before Reverend Lovejoy. 
REVEREND LOVEJOY ...and if there be anyone among you who has any reason why these two should not be joined in holy... 
Freddy holds up a finger -- "Ah-ah". 
REVEREND LOVEJOY (continuing) ...in matrimony. Let them speak now... (under his breath) ...please God... (aloud) ...or forever hold their peace. 
WHAM! -- Meagan bursts in. 
MEAGAN Stop! 
Everyone turns and looks as Meagan comes to the pulpit. 
MEAGAN (continuing; to Freddy) Take me, Freddy. Take me instead. 
FREDDY You're a virgin?! 
MEAGAN Oh, that's right -- tell everybody! 
Freddy moves close to Meagan, running a blade over and around Meagan's neck as she struggles to remain calm. 
In the control room, Freddy's face appears on every monitor, laughing. 
ERWIN Oh, no! Freddy's in the transmitter! 
Erwin watches as an electrical Freddy-impulse races from the control room via a long thick cable running overhead. 
ERWIN (continuing) He's going for the satellite dish! If he uplinks with a communications satellite he can beam himself any- where in the world! We'll never be rid of him! 
Meagan and Jason look up at the Freddy-impulse shoots past them, going through the ceiling to the... 
EXT. RELIGIOUS TV STATION - ROOF - CONTINUOUS ACTION 
The satellite dish mounted on the roof.  It begins to pulsate with an olive and red glow -- getting ready to beam Freddy. 
INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME 
Meagan reaches up and grabs the cable, pulling it hard. 
EXT. ROOF - CONTINUOUS ACTION 
The roof gives way, tilting the big dish just as it BLASTS the laughing Freddy-beam into the night sky. 
EXT. EARTH'S UPPER ATMOSPHERE - NEXT INSTANT 
The Freddy-beam just misses the satellite, ricocheting off one of the solar panels and sending the satellite tumbling into deep space. 
The deflected Freddy-beam now zooms towards the sun. 
Inside the beam -- Freddy sees the sun zooming up and screams.  His face burns away, leaving a screaming skull.  That too burns away, leaving the Dream Demons. One by one they burn up as the beam reaches the sun. 
ANGLE ON THE SUN as the beam EXPLODES, causing a solar prominence. 
INT. TV STATION - STUDIO - SAME TIME 
The ceiling collapses in on Jason, burying him under a ton of rubble and the big antenna dish.  A ton of dust billows up. 
Just then, Murdoch bursts in.  He sees Lizzy and Meagan and takes aim with the shotgun.  Erwin sees this and jumps in-between them, yelling: 
ERWIN No! Wait! 
Murdoch FIRES.  The shotgun blast knocks Erwin across the room, where he lands in a heap.  Meagan and Lizzy run to his side. 
Erwin struggles to breathe -- a large hole in his chest.  With fading strength, Erwin pulls his pin out and pricks himself.  Erwin smiles and dies. 
MEAGAN Erwin? Erwin?! 
MURDOCH He's dead... and so are you if you don't put your hands up right now! 
Lizzy turns and attacks Murdoch.  He knocks her to the floor, taking aim on her head with the shotgun as he says: 
MURDOCH (continuing) It's time I taught you girls some respect for the law! 
In a panic, Meagan snatches up a pistol from a fallen cultist and FIRES it at Murdoch's head. 
PTT-TWANG! -- Murdoch's hat goes flying off with a SPARK HIT, revealing his bald, hideous head -- a large open wound with a metal plate underneath.  He turns towards Meagan with an evil grin on his face. 
MURDOCH (continuing) So... you wanna be a punk? 
Murdoch raises the shotgun, taking aim on Meagan. 
MURDOCH (continuing) Then die like a punk! 
Murdoch starts to squeeze the trigger when Jason's hand shoots out of the rubble pile behind him.  Jason jams his hand down the back of Murdoch's pants and pulls up his briefs, lifting him a foot off the floor with a Jason-wedgy as he rises from the rubble.  We see Murdoch's name written into his shorts. 
As Murdoch screams, Jason jerks the shotgun from his hand and jams it up his ass -- right through the seat of his pants.  Murdoch's cheeks bulge out as the muzzle slams into the roof of his mouth.  Jason cocks the shotgun and... 
BOOM! -- Murdoch's head and shoulders EXPLODE from his torso, leaving his broken spine sticking up out of shirt.  Bits of Murdoch splatter the floor as his metal plate comes PINGING down, rolling around and spinning to a stop like a hubcap. 
Jason drops Murdoch (what's left of him) to the floor just as the S.W.A.T. commander and his men come charging in.  They see Jason and raise their guns in panic. 
MEAGAN NO! 
Too late.  The cops let loose with a BARRAGE of GUN- FIRE.  BULLET HITS EXPLODE on Jason's chest.  Meagan grabs Lizzy and covers her up as the bullets WHIZZ past. 
More cops hear the SHOOTING and come running.  They start SHOOTING too.  Soon the doorway to the studio is crowded with muzzle flash. 
More and more BULLET HITS SMACK Jason.  A bullet hole outline appears on the wall behind him. 
