FROM DUSK TILL DAWN 
FROM DUSK TILL DAWN 
Screenplay by Quentin Tarantino 
Story by Robert Kurtzman 
Directed by Robert Rodriguez 
This script was transcribed, proof read and formatted by ueli riegg email: webmaster@studiour.tsx.org; url: http://studiour.tsx.org 
Cast List: Quentin Tarantino                 Richard Gecko George Clooney                    Seth Gecko Brenda Hillhouse                  Hostage Gloria Harvey Keitel                     Jacob Juliette Lewis                    Kate Ernest Liu                        Scott Cheech Marin                      Border Guard, Chet Pussy, Carlos Selma Hayek                       Santanico Pandemonium Danny Trejo                       Razor Charlie Ernest Garcia                     Big Emilio Tom Savini                        Sex Machine Fred Williamson                   Frost 
"I earnestly wish an end would come to this bloody race I am forced to run." 
Countess in: "La Comtesse Noire" by Jess Franco 
FADE IN: 
EXT. LIQUOR STORE - DAY 
A convenience store in a Texas Suburb. No other businesses surround it. 
CLOSE-UP: A light switch is flipped on. 
The sign on top of the store lights up. It reads: BENNY'S WORLD OF LIQUOR. 
TITLE CARD: 
BIG SPRING, TEXAS 109 MILES WEST OF ABILENE 345 MILES EAST OF THE MEXICAN BORDER 
A Texas Ranger patrol car pulls into the parking lot and a real live Texas Ranger, EARL MCGRAW, steps out. McGraw is in full ranger uniform - button shirt, cowboy hat, boots, mirrored shades, tin star and a colt revolver on his hip. 
It's about an hour and a half before sundown and McGraw is off duty for the day. 
The only other car in the parking lot is a 1975 Plymouth 
INT. BENNY'S WORLD OF LIQUOR - DAY 
A young Hawaiian Shirt wearing man named PETE sits on a stool behind the counter. 
A few CLOSE-UP:STOMERS fiddle about. 
A MAN wearing a black suit, black tie, and wire rim glasses holds hands with a PRETTY BLONDE GIRL in cutoffs and bare feet. They look through magazines. 
Another black suit wearing MAN holds hands with a RED-HEADED GIRL in a prep school uniform. They look through the beer cooler in the back of the store. Both girls are around seventeen. 
MCGRAW enters the store. 
MCGRAW Hot goddamn day! 
PETE Haven't felt it a bit. Been inside with the air conditioner blastin' all day long. 
MCGRAW Not even for lunch? 
PETE I'm by myself today, ate my lunch outta the microwave. 
McGraw walks over to the beer cooler, as if done ritually every night (it is), takes out a beer, pops it open and joins Pete by the front counter. 
MCGRAW Jesus Christ man, that microwave food will kill ya as quick as a bullet. Those burritos are only fit for a hippie high on weed. Pull me down a bottle of Jack Daniels. I'm gettin' tanked tonight. 
PETE Whatsamatter? 
MCGRAW (sighs) Awww, it's just been a shitass day. Every inch of it hot and miserable. First off, Nadine at the Blue Chip got some sorta sick, so that Mongoloid boy of hers was workin' the grill. That fuckin' idiot don't know rat shit from Rice Krispies. I ate breakfast at nine, was pukin' up pigs in a blanket like a sick dog by ten thirty. 
PETE Isn't there a law or something against retards serving food to the public? 
MCGRAW Well, if there ain't there sure oughta be. Who knows what goes on inside Mongoloid's mind? 
PETE You could sue the shit out of her, ya know. That kid belongs under a circus tent, not flippin' burgers. You could own that fuckin' place. 
MCGRAW What the hell would I do with that grease pit? Besides, Nadine's got enough of a cross to bear just taking care of that potato head. Then all this Abilene shit happened. You heard about that bank robbery in Abilene, didn't ya? 
SETH (to Richard) What the fuck was that about? 
RICHARD (in a low monotone) He signaled the Ranger. 
PETE (hysterical) I didn't. (to Seth) You gotta believe me, I didn't. 
RICHARD (to Seth) When they were talkin', he mouthed the words "Help Us." 
PETE You fuckin' liar, I didn't say shit! 
Richard SHOOTS Pete and Pete falls down behind the counter. 
Seth grabs Richard and throws him up against the wall. 
SETH What the fuck is wrong with you -- 
RICHARD Seth, he did it. You were by the beer cooler with your back turned. I was by the magazines, I could see his face. And I saw him mouth: 
Richard mouths the words, "Help Us." 
While Pete lies on the floor behind the counter bleeding from his bullet wound, he opens his floor safe and pulls out a gun from it. 
Seth releases his brother. 
SETH Start the car. 
RICHARD You believe me don't cha? 
SETH Shut up and start the car. 
Richard walks away from Seth and crosses the counter... 
...when Pete SPRINGS up, gun in hand, and SHOOTS Richard in the hand. 
Richard FALLS to his knees, howling. 
Both Pete and Seth SPRAY the store with gunfire. 
Seth DIVES down an aisle. He reloads. 
Pete DUCKS behind the counter. He reloads. 
Richard has crawled to safety behind an aisle. 
The two girls have run out screaming. 
SETH (yelling) Richie? You okay? 
RICHARD (yelling) I'm not dead, but I'm definitely shot! I told you that bastard said, "Help us!" 
PETE (yelling) I never said help us! 
SETH (yelling) Well that don't matter now, 'cause you got about two fuckin' seconds to live! Richie! 
RICHARD (yelling) Yeah? 
SETH (yelling) When I count three, shoot out the bottles behind him! 
RICHARD Gotcha! 
SETH One... Two... Three. 
The two brothers start FIRING toward the counter. 
They HIT the bottles of alcohol on the shelf behind Pete. 
Pete is crouched on the ground as glass, debris and alcohol RAIN down on him. 
Seth grabs a roll of paper towels from off a shelf. 
Richard keeps FIRING. 
Seth douses the paper towels with lighter fluid, sets it on fire with his Zippo, then tosses it. 
Emma and Pete's PATRONS are made up of regulars, truckers, cowboys and road-weary travelers. The CAMERA DOLLIES through the maze of tables, patrons, and waitresses. 
It stops when it gets to a table occupied by the FULLER FAMILY. The Fullers definitely fall into the road-weary category. The members of the unit consist of the father, JACOB, age 44, an ex-preacher, a good man with rough edges, and his two children, KATE, age 19, is a young beauty who possesses what can only be described as an apple pie sensuality. She is dressed like a nice Christian girl, complete with crucifix. SCOTT, age 16, is a Jacob's Vietnamese adopted son. Scott is a likable, long-haired kid who always wears a T-shirt with the name of the heavy metal garage band he plays guitar for, "Precinct 13." The three of them are wolfing down a late lunch. 
JACOB We got about two more hours of day light left. That'll get us into El Paso, which is right next to the border. We'll stop at a motel -- 
SCOTT Stop? We're not going to actually stop at a motel, are we? 
Scott and Kate speak together, obviously repeating something that Jacob has said about three hundred times. 
SCOTT AND KATE We've got a Winnebago. We don't need those over priced roach havens. We're self contained. 
JACOB Okay, Okay, maybe I was a little overzealous, but give me a break, I just bought it. 
Scott and Kate continue the impersonation. 
SCOTT Why, just look at all this. You got your kitchen -- 
KATE -- you got your microwave -- 
SCOTT -- you got your sink -- 
KATE -- you got your shower -- 
SCOTT -- see this, television! 
KATE Feel this, real wood paneling. That's real wood, too, not that fake stuff. 
JACOB Unless you two wiseacres wanna be introduced to the joys of hitchhiking, what say we drop this? 
SCOTT (to Kate) The truth hurts. 
KATE (to Scott) It's the bitterest of pills. 
JACOB You two ought to start a stand-up act, because you're just wasting your humor on me. 
KATE Ain't it the truth. 
SCOTT Why do you want to stop? 
JACOB I'm exhausted. 
SCOTT Lie in the back, Dad, I'll drive us into Mexico. 
Jacob gives Scott a look that says, "You aren't touching my new motor home." 
JACOB I just bet you would. Don't even thin about it. Besides, I want to have one night's sleep in an honest-to-goodness bed. The beds in the home are okay, but they're not like a real bed. 
KATE Hey, if we go to a motel, we can swim. 
SCOTT I'll be right back. I'm gonna go to the bathroom. 
Scott gets up from the table and walks out back to the restroom. 
Jacob and Kate are left alone. There's an awkward moment of silence before... 
KATE Dad, when I called the machine to check our messages there was one from Bethel Baptist. Mr.Franklin said he wouldn't permanently replace you until we came back. He said when we come home, if you still feel the same way -- 
JACOB That's very nice of Ted, but I'll call him tomorrow and tell him not to bother waiting. 
KATE I didn't want to talk about this in front of Scott because he gets upset. But you don't believe in God anymore? 
JACOB Not enough to be a pastor. Look, I know this is hard on you kids. After Jenny's death, this is probably the last thing you need. But I can't do it any longer. My congregation needs spiritual leadership. Well, they can't get that from me anymore. My faith is gone. To answer your question, yes, I do believe in Jesus. But do I love them? No. After Jenny died, I just thought, what's the point? 
KATE (pushing him) It's just, all our lives you've been a pastor. For twenty years you've preached trust in the lord. And then one day you wake up and say fuck him? 
JACOB I didn't say fuck him. I'm just not connected anymore. 
KATE That happens, you'll get it back. 
JACOB Kate, give your old man a little credit. Every person who chooses the service of God as their life's work has something in common. I don't care if you're a preacher, a priest, a nun, a rabbi or a Buddhist monk. Many, many times during your life you'll look at your reflection in the mirror and ask yourself, am I a fool? We've all done it. I'm not going through a lapse. What I've experienced is closer to awakening. I'm not trying to shake your faith. I've just decided not to devote my life to God anymore. 
KATE What do you think Mom would say? 
He helps him get his jacket off. 
SETH How's it feel? 
RICHARD How ya think, it hurts like a son-of-a-bitch. 
Richie goes over to the bed and lies down on it. Seth takes the pillow and stacks them for Richie to prop his back up against. 
SETH I got both rooms on either side of us, so we don't gotta worry about eavesdropping assholes. How's that feel? You okay? 
RICHARD Feels good. 
SETH I'm gonna go get the money. 
He heads for the door. 
EXT. COURTYARD - MOTEL - DAY 
Seth goes into the car, takes out a big suitcase. He scans the perimeter with his eyes, goes back inside. 
INT. MOTEL ROOM #9 - DAY 
Seth comes back in, lays the suitcase on the bed. Richie has the TV remote control in his hand and he's flipping stations. Seth looks at his watch. 
SETH It's about five o'clock. (to hostage) What time does it get dark around here? 
HOSTAGE About seven. 
SETH Good. I'm going towards the border to check things out while it's still daylight. Call Carlos and arrange the rendezvous. 
RICHARD Hey, when you talk to him, see if you can arrange a better deal than thirty percent. 
SETH That's their standard deal, brother. They ain't about to change it for us. 
RICHARD Did you even to try to negotiate? 
SETH These guys ain't spic fire cracker salesman from Tijuana. They don't even know the meaning of the word "barter". You wanna stay in El Ray? You give them thirty percent of your loot. It's scripture. So it is written, so shall it be done. You want sanctuary, you pay the price, and the price is thirty percent. 
RICHARD All I'm saying -- 
SETH -- This conversation is over. 
Richie shrugs and turns back to TV, Seth turns to the hostage, grabs a chair and slides it up in front of her. 
SETH Now, we need to have a talk. What's your name? 
HOSTAGE Gloria. 
He shakes her hand. 
SETH Hello, Gloria, I'm Seth and that's my brother Richie. Let's cut to the chase. I'm gonna ask you a question and all I want is a yes or no answer. Do you want to live through this? 
GLORIA Yes. 
SETH Good. Then let me explain the house rules. Follow the rules, we'll get along like a house on fire. Rule number one: No noise, no question. You make a noise... (he holds up his .45) ...Mr. 45 makes a noise. You ask a question, Mr. 45 answers it. Now are you absolutely, positively clear about rule number one? 
GLORIA Yes. 
SETH Rule number two: You do what we say, when we say it. If you don't, see rule number one. 
Seth takes the .45, places the barrel next to the woman's cheek. She squirms and shuts her eyes. He pulls back the hammer. 
SETH Rule number three: Don't you ever try and fuckin' run on us. 'Cause I got five little friends, and they all run faster 'n you can. Got it? 
She nods her head yes. 
He takes the gun away and replaces the hammer. 
SETH Open your eyes. 
She does. 
SETH Gloria, you hang in there, follow the rules, and don't fuck with us, you'll get out of this alive. I give you my word. Okay? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. THE CRIMINAL COURT BUILDING - DAY 
Kelly Houge walks down the courthouse steps of the criminal courts building of Abilene. She talks to the camera. Cops, lawyers and citizens bustle in the background. 
KELLY HOUGE The list of the dead climbed up three more notches since our last telecast. 
CUT TO: 
PHOTO: OFFICER SHERMAN GOODELL in full police uniform. 
KELLY HOUGE (V.O.) Officer Sherman Goodell, who was in intensive care following the gun battle outside of the Valley Federal bank building... 
CUT TO: 
EXT. COURTHOUSE - DAY 
Kelly Houge standing on the court house steps talking into the camera. 
KELLY HOUGE ...died about forty-five minutes ago at Hopkins General hospital. And about six hours ago, during a daylight liquor store robbery in Big Springs, The Gecko Brothers killed another Texas Ranger... 
CUT TO: 
PHOTO: EARL MCGRAW in uniform. 
KELLY HOUGE (V.O.) ...Earl McGraw... 
CUT TO: 
PHOTO: PETE in a Hawaiian shirt holding up a big fish. 
KELLY HOUGE (V.O.) ...and liquor store clerk Pet Bottoms. 
CUT TO: 
VIDEO FOOTAGE: Of Benny's World of Liquor burning down. 
KELLY HOUGE (V.O.) Then they proceeded to burn the store down to the ground. 
CUT TO: 
VIDEO GRAPHIC: Picture of The Gecko Brothers with a tally underneath: 
THE GECKO BROTHERS 
WICHITA JAIL BREAK VALLEY FEDERAL  BANK ROBBERY BIG SPRINGS CONVENIENCE  STORE ROBBERY 
DEATH TOLL 
TEXAS RANGERS  - POLICE OFFICERS  - CIVILIANS 
KELLY HOUGE That changes the death toll to fifteen. (It changes under "Death toll") Five Texas Rangers... (it changes) Eight police officers (it changes) Three civilians. (it changes) 
CUT TO: 
BACK TO KELLY 
KELLY HOUGE And one hostage... 
CUT TO: 
PHOTO: GLORIA HILL 
KELLY HOUGE (V.O.) ... bank teller and mother of four, Gloria Hill. 
KELLY TO CAMERA 
KELLY HOUGE Heading the case to bring these fugitives to justice is FBI agent Stanley Chase. We talked with agent Chase earlier this afternoon. 
CUT TO: 
VIDEO INTERVIEW 
SETH What'd ya mean, what? The fuckin' woman, the hostage. Where the fuck is she, Richard!? 
RICHARD She's in the other room. 
SETH What the fuck is she doin' there?! 
He goes to the door of the adjoining room. 
RICHARD Seth, before you open the door, let me explain what happened. 
Seth stops and looks at his brother. He knows what he means. He can't say anything, only point at his younger sibling. Then he BURSTS open the door. 
The dead, naked body of Gloria Hill lies on the bed. It's obvious Richard raped her and killed her. 
Seth covers his eyes with his hands. He slowly enters the room with the dead body. 
SETH (to himself) Oh, Richard, what's wrong with you? 
Richard rises from the bed. 
RICHARD Now, Seth, before you flip out, let me just explain what happened. 
Seth slowly turns to his brother, then walks toward him. 
Richard backs up. 
SETH Yeah, explain it to me. I need an explanation. What's the matter with you? 
RICHARD (low and calm) There's nothing wrong with me, brother. That woman tried to escape and I did what I had to do. 
SETH No. (pause) That woman wouldn't of said shit if she had a mouthful. 
RICHARD Wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong! Once you left, she became a whole different person. 
SETH (slowly approaching) Is it me? Is it my fault? 
RICHARD It's not your fault, it's her fault! 
Seth grabs Richard and THROWS him in the corner of the room, holding tightly to his wrist. 
SETH Is this my fault? Do you think this is what I am? 
RICHARD What? 
SETH This is not me! I am a professional fucking thief. I steal money. You try to stop me, god help you. But I don't kill people I don't have to, and I don't rape women. What you doin' ain't how it's done. Do you understand? 
RICHARD Seth, if you were me -- 
SETH Just say yes! Nothing else, just say yes. 
RICHARD Yes. 
SETH Yes, Seth, I understand. 
RICHARD Yes, Seth, I understand. 
Seth hugs his little brother. Tight. 
SETH (whispers in Richie's ear) We get into Mexico, it's gonna be sweet Rosemary, hundred-proof liquor, and rice and beans. None of this shit's gonna matter. 
INT. MOTOR HOME - NIGHT 
Scott and Kate are in the front seat of their parked motor home. The motor home's parked in front of the Dew Drop Inn's front office. We see Jacob inside getting a room from the Old-Timer. 
KATE I can't believe he's stopping here. This place looks totally cruddy. 
Jacob walks out of the office. Kate yells from the motor home. 
KATE Dad, why are we stopping here? 
He opens the meter home door and climbs in. 
JACOB There's nothing wrong with this place. 
JACOB My children are not going with you, and that's that. 
SETH (angry) That's not fuckin' that... (holds up his gun) this is fuckin' this. (he calms down and looks at Scott) Go sit over there. 
Scott gets up and walks to the other side of the room, leaving the two men alone. Seth speaks in a quiet, conversational tone. 
SETH I ain't got time to fuck around with you, so I'll make this simple. Take your kids and get in the car, or I'll execute all three of you right now. (he cocks the gun and puts it right in Jacob's face) What's it gonna be, yes or no answer? 
Jacob looks at him. 
JACOB Yes. 
SETH Good. (to Scott) Your old man's all right, he just saved your life. 
Seth BANGS on the bathroom door. 
SETH Times up, Princess. 
The bathroom door opens. Kate stands there, wearing a T-shirt, jeans and bare feet. 
SETH Okay, ramblers, let's get to rambling. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
The motor home with the powder-keg interior drives through the Lone Star night. 
INT. MOTOR HOME NIGHT 
Richard's in the back bed area with a gun trained on Kate and Scott. The two scared siblings hold hands. 
KATE Excuse me. 
Richard zeros in on her. 
RICHARD What? 
KATE Where are you taking us? 
RICHARD Mexico. 
KATE What's in Mexico? 
RICHARD Mexicans. 
He doesn't smile. 
In the front part of the motor home, Jacob sits behind the wheel, driving into the night. Seth sits in the passenger seat, going through Jacob's wallet and talking to him calmly. 
SETH (reading his driver's license) Jacob Fuller. Jacob, that's biblical, ain't it? What am I askin' for, of course it is. (motioning behind him) What are their names? 
JACOB Scott and Kate. 
Seth repeats the names as he thumbs through the wallet. 
SETH Scott and Kate... Kate and Scott... Scott Fuller... Kate Fuller... 
Seth comes to a snapshot of Jacob and his wife. 
SETH Who's this? 
JACOB My wife. 
SETH Where is the little lady? 
JACOB In heaven. 
SETH She's dead? 
JACOB Yes, she is. 
SETH How'd she die? 
SETH Fair enough. You break your word, I'll kill all of you. (calling to the back) Kate, honey! 
KATE Yeah. 
SETH You must have a bible in here, don't cha? 
KATE Yeah, we got a bible. 
SETH Get it and bring it up here, will ya, please? 
Kate goes into a drawer, pulls out a bible and brings it up front. 
SETH Hold it right there, sweetie pie. (to Jacob) Put your hand on it. 
Jacob does. 
SETH Swear to God, on the Bible, you won't try to escape and you'll get us across the border. 
JACOB I swear to God I won't try to escape and I'll do my best to get you into Mexico. 
SETH You best better get it done, Pops. 
Seth places his hand on the Bible. 
SETH I swear to God I'll let you loose in the morning. And your daughter will be safe. And I also swear if you do anything to fuck me up, I'll slit all your throats. 
TIME CUT TO: 
INT. MOTOR HOME - NIGHT 
Richard's in the back with Kate and Scott. Richard, expressionless, looks at Kate's bare feet. 
SLOW ZOOM KATE'S BARE FEET 
EX CLOSE-UP KATE'S TOES. They wiggle. 
His eyes go to her hands. 
SLOW ZOOM KATE'S HANDS 
EX CLOSE-UP KATE'S FINGERS 
His eyes go to her neck. 
SLOW ZOOM NAPE OF KATE'S NECK 
EX CLOSE-UP KATE'S ADAM'S APPLE. She swallows. 
His eyes move up. 
SIDE PROFILE OF KATE, SLOW ZOOM TO KATE'S LIPS 
Back to Richard. 
RICHARD Did ya mean what you said back there? 
Kate turns to him. 
KATE What? 
RICHARD In the room. Were you serious, or were you just foolin' around? I'm just bringing it up, 'cause if you really want me to do that for you, I will. 
KATE Do what? 
RICHARD (in a whisper) What you said to me in the room. 
KATE (whispers back) What did I say? 
RICHARD (whisper) You asked me if I would -- 
SETH (O.S.) Richard! 
RICHARD (to Seth) What? 
RICHARD What does that mean? 
SETH (distracted) What? 
Richard lets Kate go, she quickly moves to the side. 
RICHARD You just called me a fuckin' nut. 
SETH No, I didn't. 
RICHARD Yes, you did. You said as long as I don't act like a fuckin' nut, implying that I've been acting like a fuckin' nut. 
SETH Take a pill, kid. I just meant stay cool. 
RICHARD You meant that, but you meant the other, too. 
Kate can't believe what she's watching. Neither can Seth. 
SETH (serious as a heart attack) This ain't the time, Richard. 
RICHARD (his voice rising) Fuck those spic pigs! You called me a fuckin' nut, and where I come from, that stops the train on its tracks. 
SETH (real quiet and violent) Keep your voice down. 
RICHARD (quiet back) Or what? 
BACK TO JACOB AND SCOTT 
JACOB Have you forgotten about your sister? 
SCOTT They're gonna kill us. They get us across the border, they're gonna take us out in the desert and shoot us. 
JACOB If they get over the border, they're gonna let us go. 
SCOTT Dad, I watch those reality shows. They never let anybody go. Any cop will tell you, in a situation like this, you get a chance, you go for it. This is our chance. 
JACOB What about Kate? 
SCOTT They're gonna kill her anyway. At least now with all these cops we've got a fighting chance. 
JACOB Son, I have this situation under control. I know exactly what I'm doing. You're going to have to trust me on this. 
SCOTT If trusting you means trusting those fuckin' killers, I can't do that. If you don't tell the cops, I will. 
Jacob grabs Scott by the front of his shirt, and yanks him to him. 
JACOB Now, you listen to me. You ain't gonna do a goddamn fucking thing, you hear me! Nobody cares what you think, I'm running this show, I make the decisions. 
SCOTT He's running the show. 
JACOB I'm running the show. I make the plays, and you back the plays I make. Stop thinking with your fucking balls. Kate in a room with a couple of desperate men with nothing to fucking lose ain't the time to "go for it." I need your cover. Cover my ass. 
There's a HONK behind them. 
They both look out the window. It's their turn with the BORDER PATROL GUARDS. JACOB takes the wheel and drives up. 
A stern BORDER GUARD approaches JACOB'S window. 
BORDER GUARD How many with you? 
JACOB Just my son and I. 
BORDER GUARD What is your purpose in Mexico? 
JACOB Vacation. I'm taking him to see his first bullfight. 
BACK TO BATHROOM 
RICHARD I'm curious. What was the nuttiest thing I did? 
SETH This ain't the time. 
RICHARD Oh, I know, was it possibly when your ass was rotting in jail and I broke it out? Yeah, you're right, that was pretty fuckin' nutty. Not to mention stupid. But you know what? I can fix that right now. 
He charges for her. GRABS her, hugs her around her waist, and spins her around. When he lets her go, she stumbles dizzily onto the bed. 
SETH (to Kate) You were magnificent! You told him to shut the fucking door. I'm hiding in the shower, and I'm thinking to myself, "Did I just fuckin' hear what I just fuckin' heard? And what does he do -- he shuts the fucking door! 
Kate kind of half smiles. 
SETH If I was a bit younger, baby, I'd fuckin' marry you! 
Seth goes up front and slaps Jacob on the back. 
SETH I gotta hand it to ya, Pops, you raised a fuckin' woman. 
Jacob doesn't share Seth's enthusiasm, but he is relieved. 
JACOB We did our part, we gotcha in Mexico. Now it's time for your part, letting us go. 
SETH Pops, when you're right, you're right, and you are right. 
KATE (suddenly brightens) You're gonna let us go? 
SETH In the morning, darlin', in the morning, we are G-O-N-E and you are F-R-E-E. Now, I know I put you guys through hell, and I know I've been one rough pecker, but from here on end you guys are in my cool book. Scotty, help me pick Richie up, and lay him down. Jacob, keep going on this road till you get to a sign that says, "Digayo." When you get to Digayo, turn this big bastard left, go on down for a few miles, then you see a bar called "The Titty Twister." From what I hear, you can't miss it. 
JACOB Then? 
SETH Then stop, 'cause that's where we're going. 
He slaps him once again on the back, and leaves to attend to Richard. 
CUT TO: 
CLOSE-UP RICHARD without glasses. Unconscious, Seth slaps his face. 
SETH (O.S.) C'mon, kid, wake up. Don't make a career out of it. 
Richard starts coming to and opens his eyes. Seth sits at the foot of the bed. 
SETH You okay? 
RICHARD (disoriented) Yeah, I think so. What happened? 
SETH I don't know, you just passed out. 
RICHARD I did? 
SETH Yeah, we were just standing there. You said something about your shoulder hurting, then you just hit the ground like a sack of potatoes. 
RICHARD Really? 
SETH Yeah, when you fell your head smacked the toilet hard. It scared the shit outta me. Sure you're okay? 
RICHARD Yeah, I guess. I'm just a little fucked up. 
SETH Well, let me tell ya something, gonna clear your head right up. We are officially Mexicans. 
RICHARD What? 
SETH We are... (singing) "South of the border down Mexico way." 
RICHARD We are? 
SETH Yep. We're heading for the rendezvous right now. We get there, we pound booze till Carlos shows up, he escorts us to El Ray. And then me and you, brother, kick fuckin' back. How ya like them apples? 
Slowly shaking the cobwebs out of his head. 
RICHARD Far out. (pause) Where are my glasses? 
SETH They broke when you fell. 
RICHARD Oh, fuck, Seth, that's my only pair! 
SETH Don't worry about it, we'll get you some glasses. 
RICHARD What dya mean, don't worry about it. Of course I'm gonna worry about it, I can't fuckin' see. 
RICHARD Where are you right now? 
SETH What do you mean? 
RICHARD Where are you? 
SETH I'm here with you. 
RICHARD No, you're not. You're sippin' margaritas in El Ray. But we're not in El Ray. We're here -- getting ready to go in there. You're so pleased with yourself about getting into Mexico, you think the job's down. It ain't. Get back on the clock. That's a fuck-with-you-bar. We hang around there for a coupla hours, in all likelihood, we'll get fucked with. So get your shit together, brother. 
SETH My shit is together. 
RICHARD It don't look together. 
SETH Well, it is. Just because I'm happy doesn't mean I'm on vacation. You're just not used to seein' me happy, 'cause it's been about fifteen fuckin' years since I been happy. But my shit is forever together. 
Richard believes Seth's response. 
RICHARD Okay, just checkin'. 
They walk toward the bar's entrance. Chet Pussy talks into the microphone. 
CHET (yelling into the microphone) Take advantage of our penny pussy sale. Buy any piece of pussy a tour regular price, you get another piece of pussy, of equal or lesser value, for a penny. Now try and beat pussy for a penny! If you can find cheaper pussy anywhere, fuck it! 
Chet notices our heroes, especially young Kate. 
CHET (in microphone, towards Kate) What's this? A new flavor approaching. Apple Pie Pussy. 
SETH Step aside, asshole. 
Chet POKES HIS FINGER in Seth's CHEST. 
CHET Not so fast, Slick. 
Seth GRABS HOLD of Chet's FINGER, BENDS it BACKWARDS till the BONE SNAPS in two. 
Chet lets out a SCREAM. 
Seth VIOLENTLY brings his HEAD FORWARD PULVERIZING Chet's NOSE. 
Chet FALLS to his KNEES in front of Seth. 
Seth HOOKS him with a powerful FIST UNDER his CHIN that SNAPS Chet's HEAD BACK, and THROWS him on his BACK. 
After HITTING the GROUND, Seth SENDS a SAVAGE KICK straight to Chet's FACE, ROLLING HIM OVER. 
Chet is OUT. 
The whole altercation took two seconds. 
Everyone's in shock and looks at Seth. Seth looks back at everyone. 
SETH Now, is my shit together, or is my shit together? 
Richard and Seth laugh with each other. 
RICHARD (slappin' Seth five) Your shit is forever together! 
They head for the door. Richard stays behind for a second, and gives the fallen Chet a few, swift kicks, 
INT. THE TITTY TWISTER NIGHT 
If the Titty Twister looked like the asshole of the world from the outside, in the immortal words of Al Jolson, "You ain't seen nothin' yet." This is the kind of place where they sweep up the teeth and hose down the cum, the blood and the beer at closing. 
In the back, TOPLESS DANCERS do lap dances with customers, while a SLEAZY SEXY STRIPPER STRIPS to RAUNCHY MUSIC, played at ear drum-bursting level. TWO MEN are in a savage BAREKNUCKLE FIGHT, surrounded by screaming customers of bikers and truckers. 
One of the dancers is a man with a saddle on his back, his name is DANNY THE WONDER PONY. The woman on his back, in the saddle, feet in the stirrups, hands on the reins, is ATHENA, his rider. They dance around to the cheers of the crowd. 
Bikers and truckers play pool in the back. Fights break out here about one every ten minutes. The customers may start 'em, but the bouncer, BIG EMILIO, ends 'em. 
Seth, Richard, Jacob, Scott and Kate walk through the door. They each individually take in the sights and the smells. Seth is the first to say something. 
SETH Now this is my kinda place! I could become a regular. 
Richie, mesmerized, sucks the whiskey off her toes. The CROWD GOES WILD. Santanico smiles, master of all she surveys. 
Jacob and Scott are embarrassed. 
Kate, oddly enough, is turned on by the controlling power this woman has over a man she's deathly feared. 
Seth laughs out loud a Mexican "yi yi yiii" laugh, keeping the beat with his guitar. 
Across the room, Razor Charlie, Chet by his side, motions over Big Emilio. He begins explaining with pointing what Seth and company did to Chet. 
Richard continues to suck her toes. 
The song ends, Santanico extracts her foot from Richard's mouth. Steps off the table. Takes a drink of whiskey. Looks down at the seated Richard. 
She GRABS the back of his hair, YANKS his head BACK. His mouth OPENS because she's hurting him. She LEANS her FACE OVER his like she's going to kiss him. Then let's the whiskey from her mouth fall into his. They never touch. The crowd applauds. She lets go of Richard's hair. Except for Jacob and Richard, both for their own reasons, the table applauds, none louder than Seth. 
SETH Bravo! Bravo! Bravo! Now that's what I call a fuckin' show! 
One of Santanico's FLUNKIES brings the naked woman a robe, which she puts on. 
Richard, still in a daze, looks up at his new friend. 
SETH (snapping his fingers) Earth to Richie. Don't you wanna ask your new friend to join us? 
RICHARD Yeah. 
SETH Well, then ask her, dumb ass. 
RICHARD (looking up at Santanico) Por favor, Senorita. Would you care to join us? 
SANTANICO (to Richard) Muy bien, gracias. 
Santanico sits down next to Richie. Seth pours her a drink. 
SETH Richie, you lucky bastard! (to Santanico) Now, little lady, you could of just as easily done that to me. Who a Nelly! You got my dick harder 'n Chinese arithmetic. 
The table laughs. 
SETH Which reminds me of a joke. Little Red Riding Hood is walking through the forest and she comes across Little Bo Peep, and Little Bo Peep says: "Little Red Riding Hood, are you crazy? Don't you know the Big Bad Wolf is walking these woods and if he finds you he's gonna pull down your dress and squeeze your titties?" Then Little Red Riding Hood hitches up her skirt and taps a .357 Magnum she has holstered on her thigh and says: "No he won't." 
As Seth tells his joke, Jacob notices Razor Charlie, Big Emilio and Chet moving rapidly towards their table. 
JACOB (to himself) Oh, shit. (to Seth) Seth -- 
Seth waves him away. 
SETH Not now. So finally she comes across the Big Bad Wolf and the Big Bad Wolf's laughing and says: "Little Red Riding Hood, you know better than to be walking around these woods alone. You know I'm just gonna have to pull down your dress and squeeze your titties." Then Little Red Riding Hood whips out her .357, cocks it, sticks it in the Big Bad Wolf's face and says: "No you won't. You're gonna eat me, just like the story says." 
Seth starts laughing at his own joke uproariously. Richard, Kate, Scott and Santanico join in too. Before Jacob can say anything -- 
The Titty Twister trio stand over the table. 
RAZOR CHARLIE (to Chet in Spanish) Which one? 
CHET (pointing at Seth) This piece of shit broke my finger and my nose... (pointing at Richard) then this fag kicked me in the ribs while I was down. 
That's all Big Emilio has to hear. 
BIG EMILIO (to The Gecko Brothers) Up! 
RICHARD Fuck off, ape man! 
Big Emilio leans in with his beefy hand, GRABS Richard by the shoulder. Richard lets out a howl as blood pours from his wounded shoulder. 
Santanico steps back from the table. 
Seth jumps to his feet and FIRES a round from his .45 into Big Emilio, sending his bullet-ridden body to the floor. Razor Charlie whips out a straight version of his name sake and SLASHES Seth across the face. 
Seth SCREAMS at the top of his lungs as his hand goes up to his laid open cheek. 
Richard, who has fallen to the ground holding his wound, brings up his .45 and starts BLASTING. 
Razor Charlie takes a bullet in the head, chest and belly before he hits the floor. 
The patrons scream. 
A WHORE locks the front door (which is a complicated lock with steel rods going into the ground), turns toward the bar and yells: 
WHORE Dinner is served! 
The bikers and truckers who have been transfixed, watching the impossible, realize that the waitresses, naked dancers and whores who they were pawing just five minutes ago, have turned into yellow-eyed, razor-fanged, drool-dripping VAMPIRES. 
The vamps attack. 
What follows is a shark feeding frenzy. Whores, who had been sitting on customer's laps, sink their teeth into unshaven necks. 
Naked strippers and bikers wail the shit out of each other. Truckers get their heads caved in by women half their size. The patrons use what ever they can find to fend off the monsters: chairs, chair legs, broken bottles, switchblades, anything. 
Jacob, Kate and Scott make a dash and dive behind the bar. They hide and watch. 
Seth stands where his was, limp dick of a .45 in his hand, too freaked, scared and stunned to do anything. He stands motionless, watching what he can't believe. 
Behind him, Santanico, who lies next to the dead Richard, eyes POP OPEN. 
She RISES in her snake/dance way. 
Seth feels her and SPINS in her direction, gun raised. 
SANTANICO Let's see if you taste as good as your brother. 
She approaches Seth, who FIRES at her. BAM... BAM... BAM... CLICK... CLICK... CLICK... CLICK. She laughs and gives her hair a toss back. Seth, moving backwards, is terrified. 
Santanico gives Seth a SWINGING ROUND HOUSE PUNCH to the JAW, that sends him FLYING over a table, SLIDING ACROSS the FLOOR and INTO the WALL. 
A bad-ass biker named FROST, with a hideous burn on the side of his face, stands on top of a pool table, swinging a pool cue, left to right, fending off vamps. 
Big Emilio picks up a biker who stabbed him with a switchblade and throws the poor bastard from one end of the bar to the other. 
The biker-winner of the bare knuckle fight, SEX MACHINE, goes head to head with a stripper. 
The vamp might have superhuman strength, but Sex Machine has close to superhuman strength, and he's matching the vamp bitch blow for blow. 
Then he GRABS her by the waist, LIFTS her up over his head and BRINGS her DOWN HARD on an upturned table, IMPALING her on the wooden leg. 
FROST is still swinging his POOL CUE, when Razor Charlie appears, straight razor in hand. 
Frost JUMPS off the table to meet the challenge. Razor Charlie SWINGS at him, Frost LEAPS back, SWINGING his pool cue at him. They do this dance, till Frost CRACKS Charlie UPSIDE the HEAD with the pool cue, breaking it in half. Charlie FEELS the HIT. Frost PLUNGES the splintered end of the cue in Razor Charlie's heart. 
Green blood comes out of his chest, as Charlie screams the vampire's death scream. 
Seth comes to and finds Santanico standing over him. He tries to rise, but Santanico places her bare foot on his chest, pinning him down to the floor. He tries to move, but the pressure of her foot is equivalent to an engine block placed on his chest. 
SANTANICO I'm not gonna drain you completely. You're gonna turn for me, You'll be my slave. You'll live for me. You'll eat bugs because I order it. Because I don't think you're worthy of human blood, you'll feed on the blood of stray dogs. You'll be my foot stool. And at my command, you'll lick the dog shit from my boot heel. Since you'll be my dog, your new name will be "Spot". Welcome to slavery. 
SLOW MOTION: A WHISKEY BOTTLE FLIES THROUGH the AIR, sailing end over end. 
CLOSE-UP SANTANICO 
looking down at Seth, her face contorts to FEED MODE, when the bottle HITS her SQUARE in the HEAD, SHATTERING. 
We see that Jacob behind the bar threw it. 
Santanico, bathed in whiskey and broken glass, is momentarily dazed. She looks down at Seth. 
Seth sits up, .45 in hand, and fires. 
Santanico is HIT in the CHEST. The bullet from the gun makes the liquor-soaked robe ignite. 
Santanico SCREAMS as she GOES UP IN FLAMES. 
Big Emilio sees Santanico's fiery death. He lets out a cry. 
BIG EMILIO Noooooo! 
He turns his hateful gaze on the two humans. 
Seth and Jacob see Big Emilio zeroing in on them, then they see him move his big frame in their direction. Seth turns to Jacob. 
It vanishes, along with the bodies of the vampires. All that remains is a smoldering mess of goo where the bodies once lay. 
They all stare at the mess for a few seconds and then RUN for the door. It's locked. They BANG on the door, but it's useless. It ain't budging, yet they all go on banging. 
Except for Seth. He never ran for the door. He walks over to his dead brother's body and kneels beside it. 
He takes his dead hand. 
SETH Richie, I'm sorry I fucked things up. You'd really like it in El Ray. We'd find peace there. I love you little brother, I'll miss ya bad. 
Seth goes to kiss his brother's lips when, RICHARD 'S EYES POP OPEN. They're YELLOW. Seth RAISES his head in surprise. 
RICHARD I'm glad you feel that way, Seth. I love you, too. 
Richard GRABS Seth by the front of his shirt and pulls him down to him. Fangs are now exposed. Seth tries to pull away. He SCREAMS for the others to help. Richard PULLS Seth down to striking distance and opens his mouth to take the big bite, when Sex Machine grabs Seth from behind and YANKS him from Richard's grasp. Jacob, Frost and the kids have surrounded Richard and proceed to KICK him and STOMP his head. Sex Machine picks up a chair and SMASHES it against a wall. He picks up one of the chair legs and walks over to where the others are holding Richard down. Richard sees the wood in the biker's hand. He knows what that means. Seth whips out his .45 and points it at Sex Machine. 
SETH Touch my brother with that stake, biker, and vampires won't need to suck your blood, they'll be able to lick it up off the floor. 
SEX MACHINE He ain't your brother no more. 
SETH That's a matter of opinion, and I don't give a fuck about your's. 
Jacob, Frost and the kids continue to hold Richard down to the ground. 
JACOB Don't be an idiot, he'll kill us all! 
Seth aims his gun at the group. 
SETH Shut up! 
Richard's giggling. 
RICHARD Yeah, shut up. 
Seth, still holding the outstretched gun, takes the stake out of Sex Machine's hand. Seth lowers the .45. 
SETH Hold him down. 
The smile evaporates from Richard's face. 
SETH Richie, here's the peace in death I could never give you in life. 
Seth puts the stake over Richard's heart. Using the butt of his .45 like a hammer, he POUNDS the stake into Richard's heart. Richard screams and dies. They all stand around the body as it BURSTS INTO FLAMES and disintegrates into goo. Seth breaks away from the group and walks over to the bar. He grabs a bottle of whiskey and starts downing it. Kate, of all people, walks away from the group and joins Seth at the bar. 
KATE Are you okay? 
SETH Peachy! Why shouldn't I be? The world's my oyster, except for the fact that I just rammed a wooden stake in my brother's heart because he turned into a vampire, even though I don't believe in vampires. Aside from that unfortunate business, everything's hunky-dory. 
KATE I'm really sorry. 
SETH Bullshit! You hate us. If you had half a chance you'd feed us to them! 
JACOB Then why didn't I? 
Jacob walks over to Seth. 
JACOB I saved your life. I didn't have to, but I did. And I'm sorry you lost your brother. I'm sorry he's dead. I'm sorry everybody's dead. Now, if we're gonna get out of this we need each other. And we need you sober and thinking, not drunk and... 
As Jacob has been talking, a sound has started that has grown LOUDER and LOUDER. Jacob stops in mid-sentence to identify it. 
JACOB What the hell is that? 
FROST At first I just thought it was birds. 
SEX MACHINE No, it's more of a gnawing sound. Birds peck, they don't gnaw. Rats gnaw. 
Seth puts the bottle in his hand down. 
SETH It's bats. 
EXT. TITTY TWISTER - NIGHT 
The outside of the Titty Twister is literally covered with hats, CLAWING, FLAPPING, GNAWING, trying like hell to get inside. 
JACOB Okay, does anybody here know what's going on? 
SETH Yeah, I know what's going on. We got a bunch of fuckin' vampires outside trying to get inside and suck our fuckin' blood! That's it, plain and simple. And I don't wanna hear any bullshit about "I don't believe in vampires" because I don't fuckin' believe in vampires either. But I do believe in my own two fuckin' eyes, and with my two eyes I saw fuckin' vampires! Now, does everybody agree we're dealin' with vampires. 
Everybody agrees. 
SETH You too, preacher? 
JACOB I'm like you. I don't believe in vampires, but I believe in what I saw. 
SETH Good for you. Now, since we all believe we're dealing with vampires, what do we know about vampires? Crosses hurt vampires. Do you have a cross? 
JACOB In the Winnebago. 
SETH In other words, no. 
SCOTT What are you talking about? We got crosses all over the place. All you gotta do is put two sticks together and you got a cross. 
SEX MACHINE He's right. Peter Cushing does that all the time. 
SETH I don't know about that. In order for it to have any power, I think it's gotta be an official crucifix. 
JACOB What's an official cross? Some piece of tin made in Taiwan? What makes that official? If a cross works against vampires, it's not the cross itself, it's what the cross represents. The cross is a symbol of holiness. 
SETH Okay, I'll buy that. So we got crosses covered, moving right along, what else? 
FROST Wooden stakes in the heart been workin' pretty good so far. 
SEX MACHINE Garlic, holy water, sunlight... I forget, does silver do anything to a vampire? 
SCOTT That's werewolves. 
SEX MACHINE I know silver bullets are werewolves. But I'm pretty sure silver has some sort of effect on vampires. 
KATE Does anybody have any silver? 
ALL No. 
KATE Then who cares? 
SCOTT When's sunrise? 
Jacob looks at his watch. 
JACOB About two hours from now. 
KATE So all we have to do is get by for a few more hours and then we can walk right out the front door. 
SEX MACHINE Yeah, that's true, but I doubt our barricades, that door, those plastered windows and these walls will last two more hours with those bat fucks fuckin' with 'em. 
JACOB Has anybody here read a real book about vampires, or are we just remembering what a movie said? I mean a real book. 
SEX MACHINE You mean like a Time-Life book? 
Everybody laughs. 
FROST (in a cowboy voice) John Wesley Hardin, so mean he once shot a man for snorin'. 
JACOB I take it the answer's no. Okay then, what do we know about these vampires? 
SETH Aside from they're thirsty. 
FROST Well, one thing, they might got super human strength, but you can hurt 'em. 
JACOB Yeah, that bottle upside the head of Santanico didn't kill her, but it didn't feel too good either. 
SEX MACHINE Another thing, you try and ram a broken chair leg in a human, you better be one strong son-of-a-bitch. The human body is one rough-tough machine. But these vamps got soft bodies. The texture of their skin is softer, mushier. You can push shit right through 'em. Conceivably, if you hit one hard enough, you could take their fuckin' head off. 
SCOTT You could take their head off. 
SETH Actually, our best weapon against these satanic cocksuckers is this man. (he points at Jacob) He's a preacher. 
Frost and Sex Machine look toward Jacob. 
Frost HOPS around the room, mad as a hornet, holding his bleeding neck. 
FROST I been bit! He fuckin' bit me! 
Sex Machine PUNCHES Seth in the face, dropping him like a sack of potatoes. 
He smacks the shit out of Kate. She goes FLYING into a table. 
Sex Machine turns, seeing Frost breaking off a big table leg. Frost looks at the big vamp. 
FROST (to Sex Machine) You're dead, mother fucker! You're gonna bite me! You just turned me into a vampire, asshole! 
SEX MACHINE What are you gonna do about it? 
Frost, table leg in hand, RUNS, SCREAMING his head off, straight at Sex Machine. 
Sex Machine's nostrils flare. He raises his meaty fist and pulls it back, so he can really haul off. 
Frost, top speed, stake raised, screaming. Sex Machine lets loose with his punch, Seth, Scott and Kate look up from the floor. Jacob rises from behind the bar. Frost's face COLLIDES with Sex Machine's fist. Sex Machine hits Frost so hard it lifts the biker off the ground and propels him through the air. 
Seth sees where Frost is heading and says: 
SETH Oh shit! 
Jacob sees. 
JACOB Good lord! 
Frost, in mid-air, HITS the barricaded, plastered overwindow and CRASHES through it. 
Sex Machine lets loose with a maniacal laugh. Hundreds of bat-things fly into the bar. Seth grabs the two kids by the hand and runs for the backroom. 
Behind the bar, Jacob grabs two pieces of wood from off the ground. 
Ten bat-things are in hot pursuit of Seth, Kate and Scott, who are RUNNING for their lives. They get to the door of the back room, whip it open, dive in and SLAM it behind them. An ugly, fleshy bat-thing manges to get its head caught in the door as it closes. Kate and Scott PUSH on the door as hard as they can. The bat-thing's head, which is inside, screams, howls and snaps in fury. 
Seth turns toward the bat/vamp in the door. He sticks his .45 in its big mouth. 
SETH You wanna suck something, suck on this! 
He FIRES four shots that blow the bat vamp's head all over the wall. 
Kate yells: 
KATE We have to go back for Daddy! 
SETH Daddy's dead. 
KATE Noooo! 
She spins and grabs the door knob, ready to fling the door and help her father. Scott grabs her and pushes her up against the wall. 
SCOTT He's right, Kate. Daddy's dead! He was too far away. If flinging that door and filling this room with those bat-things would save him, I'd fling it. The only thing it'll do is turn us into one of them. 
SETH He needs our help! 
SCOTT He's beyond our help. You saw him get bit. I saw him get bit. We all saw it. You can't help him. I've got no one left to lose but you. I can't be alone again. We're sticking together. 
Just then they hear Jacob's voice BOOMING from the bar room. 
INT. BAR ROOM - NIGHT 
Jacob, holding a cross made out of two sticks and reciting appropriate verse from the bible, is keeping the vampires at bay. But, as Seth predicted, it is the shining power of his restored faith that is his mightiest weapon. Jacob is making his way through the vampires, toward the back door. A lot of the bats have transformed into bat/devil/human creatures. 
The creatures stand at the edge of Jacob's force field of holiness. Many bat things fly around the bar like mad, whirling dervishes. A cluster of bat-things over above and in front of Jacob. They all growl and hiss at the man of god. For every one step forward Jacob takes, the vampire stake one step back. Jacob recites the verse from the bible in a threatening, mean, mother fucking, servant of god tone. As he speaks with authority and strength, he sees Frost lying on the ground, bat-things on him like ants on a candy bar. But Jacob is too much in control to let even this repugnant sight trip him up. 
Jacob has backed himself up by the door. 
JACOB Open the door. 
The door FLIES open. Jacob jumps inside. The door SLAMS shut. 
Jacob hugs daughter and son. As he hugs them, we see his bloody arm. 
SCOTT Yeah, I promise. 
Jacob doesn't believe them. 
JACOB Why don't I believe you? (he picks up the .45) I'm gonna ask you two again, then I want you to swear to God that you'll kill me. If you don't, I'm gonna just kill myself right now. Now, since you need me I think you better swear. Kate, do you swear to God that when I turn into one of the undead, you'll kill me? 
Kate doesn't answer. Jacob places the .45 barrel against his temple. 
JACOB Kate, we don't have all day, so I'm only gonna count to five. One...two... three... four... 
KATE Okay, okay, I promise I'll do it! 
JACOB Not good enough, swear to God. 
KATE I swear to God, our father, that when you change into one of the undead, I will kill you. 
JACOB Good girl. Now, Scott, we have even less time, so I'm only giving you the count of three. One... 
SCOTT You don't believe in suicide. 
JACOB It's not suicide if you're already dead. Two... 
SCOTT Okay, I'll kill you when you change, I swear to God in Jesus Christ's name. 
JACOB Thank you, son. 
SETH Okay, vampire killers, let's kill some fuckin' vampires. 
INT. BARROOM - NIGHT 
The vampires, bat-things and what have you, start BREAKING down the door. They are in a mad frenzy. They burst through the door. 
Waiting for them are Scott and Kate holding Uzi squirt guns and water balloons draped down their chests on a belt like grenades. Jacob is holding a cross made of sharp wooden stakes and the .45 with the cross bullets. Seth is holding the jackhammer. The survivors walk out of the back room into the bar. The vamps back up, letting them inside. 
What we have here is a Mexican standoff, a la "The Wild Bunch." A moment of peace before the battle. The vamps just watch the humans. The humans just watch the vamps. Then, like the bull in the china shop, Seth ends the peace by starting up the jackhammer. 
SETH Kill 'em all! 
Jacob holds up the cross, the vamps react. 
The kids SPRAY the crowd with UZI fire, burning vampire flesh. 
The pack of vamps retreat while the Fuller squad walk forward. 
They are attacked on all sides, but they keep moving towards the door. 
Seth slams the stakes into several of the vamps, it speeds in and out of vampire chests, each time spraying him in green vamp blood. 
Jacob shoves his cross stake into a vampire with one hand and SHOOTS three vampires with blessed bullets with the other. 
Flame BURSTS from the vampires' chests when the bullets hit. 
Kate and Scott both whip water balloons off their belts and toss them into the crowd. 
They burst and FRY several of the vamps, who fall, screaming in pain. 
From its perch on a wood ceiling beam, a bat-thing drops and HURLS toward the group. 
Jacob sees it, raises his gun and FIRES. 
The bat-thing bursts into a ball of screaming fire. 
Seth continues carving a path to the front door by slamming the hammer stake into vampire chests. 
The front door is barricaded again by a big table and other junk. 
SCOTT (yelling) Why did they block the door again? 
JACOB (yelling) To keep the daylight out! This is where they sleep! Get to the door! 
Seth tries to get to the front door, when Sex Machine, now a half bat, half devil vamp, about six foot seven, drops from above in front of him. Seth RAMS the stake in its chest. The Sex Machine-thing screams out, LIFTING the hammer and Seth off the ground. 
Seth is thrown from his hold on the hammer across the room, he CRASHES into a table. 
