NICKY You know about Adele. 
JOANNA What about her? 
NICKY She's dying. 
JOANNA She died. 
NICKY I talked to her two days ago. 
JOANNA Apparently it didn't help. You know about Peter, of course. 
NICKY Our Peter? 
JOANNA Peter Redmond. They found out why he can't remember his lines. There's something living in his brain. A parasite he picked up in Borneo, doing the movie. 
NICKY Can he get through it? 
JOANNA They're watching him closely. There's a special rehearsal set for this afternoon. To bolster his confidence. And that's not all. 
NICKY I've got bigger problems, Joanna. Personal problems. 
JOANNA That's not all, Nicky. I've been backing your plays for fifteen years. And I've never been more depressed. 
NICKY About what? 
JOANNA S teven Schwimmer. The most powerful critic in America gets his first crack at Nicky Rogan. 
NICKY (hiding his concern) Look. All I want is a haircut. I'm not worried about this guy. 
JOANNA Ever since he started reviewing the Broadway theater, nobody in this business has been worried about anything else. 
NICKY They can send their heartless brilliant boy-critic. There's a much bigger thing going on than tonight's opening. 
JOANNA What? 
NICKY The Red Sox 
JOANNA You mean the World Series? I thought the Red Sox were winning. 
NICKY Three games to two. But if you know their history, you realize there's a tragedy in the making. I've been carrying this franchise on my back since I was six years old. 
JOANNA It can't be all that personal. 
Joanna enters the walk-in closet to finish undressing and get a nightdress. 
NICKY If you have a team you've followed all your life, and they raise your hopes and crush them, and lift them and crush them, do you want me to tell you what it's like? It's like feeling your childhood die over and over.     J JOANNA I mean Nicky, really, no. 
Nicky follows her into the closet, still in his shirt and boxer shorts. 
JOANNA I'm proud of this play. It's so different from anything you've done. 
NICKY This is how we've managed to last. 
JOANNA We're able to surprise each other. 
DRIVER I am sitting here five years in traffic. It is one continuous traffic since I arrive. Why must it be? 
A taxi pulls up alongside. Nicky notices the young woman in the rear seat. It is his daughter Laurel. He opens his window. 
NICKY Laurel, stay there. (to his driver) Keep the meter running. And try to stay abreast. 
Nicky leaves his taxi and gets into Laurel's. 
INT. SECOND TAXI Nicky pushes in next to her. Laurel is eighteen, slightly overweight, with a pleasant and expressive face. She is carrying books in a nylon haversack. 
NICKY I never see you anymore. Where are you all day? 
LAUREL I go to college. I thought you knew. 
NICKY Do you want to get some coffee? 
LAUREL I don't drink coffee, Daddy. And this is not what we should be talking about. 
NICKY What do you want to talk about? I'll talk about anything. What's this? 
Nicky lifts a small radio and headset out of her bag. 
LAUREL I'm seeing your play tonight, remember? 
NICKY Why do you need a radio? 
LAUREL So at the intermission I can listen to the ball game. Do you know that mother is seeing a prominent divorce lawyer? 
NICKY That's completely crazy. 
LAUREL Is it? 
NICKY Don't talk like that. How prominent? What are you implying? 
LAUREL She's doing like those Iranians. `I divorce thee. I divorce thee. I divorce thee' 
NICKY (indicating driver) And he hears it the same time I hear it? What happened to family secrets? 
Driver's nameplate --- 
TABATTABI ABULHASSAN 
LAUREL Mother is totally, you know, upset. 
NICKY Abulhassas, we'll be getting out here. 
Nicky pays the driver. 
EXT. THE STREET Nicky stands alongside the first taxi and pays his original driver. Laurel reluctantly exits the second taxi. 
INT. COFFEE SHOP 
47th Street between First and Second Avenue. 
Nicky and Laurel enter the coffee shop they are greeted by the owner, a hefty Greek named GEORGE. 
ELLIOT What do I exude? 
NICKY Suffering. You exude a person who sits in a small dark apartment eating soft white bread. 
ELLIOT Tonight you find out what it means to suffer. 
NICKY Tonight. What's tonight? 
ELLIOT Shit. They don't have any carrot soup. 
NICKY You mean because What's-His-Name. 
ELLIOT You will suffer because he is in the theater. And you will suffer a thousandfold when his review appears. 
NICKY It's just a review. 
ELLIOT It is just a review. Do not inhale. Very dangerous. 
NICKY What's the fuss? I don't get it. 
ELLIOT That's what I said eighteen months ago. 
NICKY What happened eighteen months ago? 
ELLIOT Before his Broadway days. He reviewed the one-act I did at the Fulton Fish Market. We did this play at four AM, outdoors in the rain. One performance. For the fish handlers. 
NICKY And he was there? 
ELLIOT Steven Schwimmer. I memorized every word of this review. 
NICKY That's awful. 
ELLIOT I recite it to myself with masochistic relish. 
NICKY A year and a half later? You're still brooding? 
A patron approaches the table and stares at Nicky with a fixed grin of crazed recognition. 
MAN Yessirree Bob! Yessisree Bob! 
Nicky's jaw becomes set and he pours himself a glass of wine as the man backs off. 
ELLIOT You don't know about obscure writers, Nicky. How we have our anger to nurture and love. Our murderous fantasies for any amount of fame, money , power and sex. 
The waitress comes by. She is Paisley Porter, attractive, in her mid-twenties. 
PAISLEY Guys ready to order? 
ELLIOT Paisley Porter. I didn't know you were waiting tables. 
PAISLEY Elliot? 
ELLIOT (to Nicky) This is a great young out-of-work actress. 
AISLEY Elliot Litvak. Have you been ill? And Mr. Rogan. How nice. 
WAITER To go to the theater. Wears I don't know what. Make-up, padding. 
NICKY Why? 
WAITER Because he is so deeply hated by so many people in the business. 
ELLIOT He has to disguise himself, Nicky. 
WAITER For his own safety and peace of mind. 
The waiter squeezes past and leaves. 
ELLIOT Do you want me to tell you what it was like, reading that review at the newstand with trucks rumbling past and street vendors facing Mecca? 
NICKY What was it like? 
ELLIOT I said, `I'm dead'. He killed me. 
INT. RESTAURANT -LATER Elliot standing near the front window, in a shaft of sunlight, examining a white after-dinner candy. He puts it in his pocket for later. P aisley eating lunch at the end of the long table, looking up to see Nicky approach with liqueur and a glass on wine. He sits opposite her, placing the wineglass in front of her. 
NICKY You've worked with Elliot? 
PAISLEY I was in the fish-market play. What happened to him? 
NICKY There was a review. 
PAISLEY I think I remember. 
NICKY So does Elliot. 
PAISLEY Not one of Steven's finer moments. 
NICKY Oh. You know him. 
PAISLEY A little. 
NICKY And he has finer moments now and then. 
PAISLEY He has -- something. A funny little quality I find -- 
NICKY Endearing. 
PAISLEY Engaging. 
NICKY Elliot wants to kill him with a railroad spike. 
PAISLEY A little drastic maybe? 
NICKY Say it again. 
PAISLEY What? 
NICKY You know what. 
PAISLEY Alla puttanesca. 
EXT. THE STREET About a dozen people gathered together including several diamond merchants in their beards, black suits and fur hats. They are watching the man in the cutaway dancing with his cloth doll. Someone places a donation in the cigar box. From the tape player: "Dancing in the Dark." 
Elliot ends up near the Gotham Book Mart, on the north side of the street. Nicky looks right past him into the bookstore window. He sees something that interests him. 
ELLIOT Where are you going? 
NICKY Don't wait Efor me. 
ELLIOT What about the haircut? 
INT. GOTHAM BOOK MART Nicky walks along the main aisle, looking at a woman standing in the poetry nook. 
Only a few people in the shop. 
He enters the back room and gets a glimpse of a woman walking through the opposite doorway back into the main room. 
He squeezes past a browser and looks through the doorway. Someone is just leaving the shop. 
He walks to the rear of the store, where the office is located. The door is open, the room is empty. 
He re-enters the main room and sees a woman seated on the top step of the stairway that leads to the basement stacks. Her back is to Nicky and she is reading a book. He approaches slowly and then squats by the doorway to get a closer look at her. 
She turns. It is Paisley Porter. 
INT. GOTHAM BOOK MART - A MOMENT LATER Nicky and Paisley in a corner of the back room. 
NICKY You keep slipping away. How do you do that? 
PAISLEY I was one of those silent, listening children. Glued to the shadows. 
NICKY I was all noise. Played the radio loud. Battled constantly with my brother and sister. Here I am, world. 
PAISLEY I hear good things about the new play. 
NICKY So do I. Over and over. 
PAISLEY Peter Redmond is an actor I admire enormously. 
NICKY Would you like to meet him? 
PAISLEY He doesn't want to meet some out-of- work ingenue. 
NICKY I'm trying to prolong our afternoon. In case you haven't noticed. 
AISLEY The fact is, I have to get going. 
NICKY Is it true? 
PAISLEY Is what true? 
NICKY He wears a disguise. 
PAISLEY Steven goes to extremes to protect his privacy. No friends. No phone. 
NICKY But you're his friend. 
PETER But my parasite is consuming all the new memories. Eating my lines. 
NICKY You have to see the words. Try to build a mental picture of the script. Imagine your lines high- lighted with a felt tip pen. 
PETER What color? 
NICKY What was your favorite color crayon, growing up? 
PETER Burnt sienna. 
NICKY Mine was cobalt blue. 
PETER This is your history, isn't it? Nicky? All around us. And my parasite is consuming it. 
NICKY Yes. 
PETER I kissed her while she was laughing. 
NICKY Yes. 
PETER I can see her face so clearly. Dear God. My heart was flying out of my chest with love. 
INT. THE BARRYMORE THEATER - THE WINGS Jack Haskins and Renee Simon 
RENEE I hear he got the parasite in Burma. JACK I heard Borneo. 
RENEE Why do we blame the Third World for our parasites? Maybe he got it in Denver or Minneapolis. 
JACK Maybe he got it in Borneo. 
INT. THE BARRYMORE THEATER - THE STAGE Nicky and Peter still conferring. Jack and Renee approach. 
PETER I feel shaky about one line in particular. If I can get past this line. I think I can handle the last long speech. 
RENEE Which line, Peter? 
PETER The Son says to the Father, This could be it. 
NICKY And the Father replies? 
PETER That's the line I can't ever, for the life of me remember. I just can't get it. 
JACK It's the same line. The Father simply repeats what the Son says to him. 
RENEE This could be it. 
NICKY This could be it. 
PETER I know it sounds easy. But something happens between the time I hear the line and the time I'm suppose to Jrepeat it. 
ACK This could be it. 
PETER (long pause) This could be it. 
JACK Let's work on it. 
Wide of the theater. Nicky says goodbye to Paisley. 
Reverse angle, Elliot watches them from across the street. 
icky goes back inside the theatre. Paisley walks west on 47th street. 
Elliot waits for a moment, then follows her. 
INT. STEVEN SCHWIMMER'S LOFT The Port-O-San. Steven emerges and goes to the stacked cardboard boxes against the wall. His hate mail. He is wearing a bath towel like a prayer shawl over his sweat clothes. 
He drags one of the boxes to the ratty armchair. He sits in the chair by the filthy window that looks west toward the early-setting sun. 
He takes a letter from the box, opens it, reads it, lets it fall to the floor. Takes another letter, opens it -- 
There is a knock at the door. 
Steven tenses, does not move. 
Another knock. 
He moves warily toward the door. 
PAISLEY (V.O.) Steven, it's me. Will you open please. 
Steven releases the dead-bolt lock and opens the door. 
STEVEN You've come to me. I wanted to believe you would one day. 
PAISLEY I haven't come to you. 
STEVEN But you're here. So you must have come to me. 
INT. STEVEN SCHWIMMER'S LOFT - A LITTLE LATER 
Steven is back in the chair by the window. Paisley nervously prowls the loft. 
PAISLEY In other words I never understood until today how much pain and anxiety you've been causing with your reviews. Steven, it's so unfair. 
STEVEN Of course it's unfair. The truth is always unfair. Why do you think I live this way? Hiding out. Stealing electricity from a lamp post. Because people who write the truth are outcasts of society. I can't live openly, in a nice clean doorman building, with my name on the mailbox. They'd come after me in packs. 
PAISLEY Not if you stopped hurting people. Write the truth gently. 
STEVEN The truth is never gentle. Listen to me carefully. Each of us lives in the thinnest possible wrapping of wishes and dreams. Truth is the force that penetrates this wispy skin. It hurts and maims. reaching down to clutch a fistful of letters) Look how they hate me for telling the truth. It's an education, Paisley. The College of Raw Nerves. (MORE) 
STEVEN(cont'd) Letters dripping blood. Cries of revenge. 
PAISLEY Yes. I've seen your victims. One past and one future. I thought I might convince you to reconsider. 
STEVEN And I thought, at last, she's here, she wants me. 
PAISLEY I don't want you, Steven. 
Paisley moves towards the door. 
TEVEN Stay. Teach me to be compassionate. 
MICHAEL So I know who I'm letting in. 
Nicky leaves the apartment. 
EXT. THE STREET The man in the cutaway dances with his doll. The tape machine plays "In The Still of the Night. 
" The street is completely empty except for the dancer. Nicky, a small paper bag in his hand, reenters his father's building. 
INT. MICHAEL ROGAN'S LIVING ROOM The room bears some resemblance to the living room set at the Barrymore. Michael sits at the end of the sofa, weary. Nicky is taking an athletic bandage -- about four feet long and three inches wide -- out of the package. 
He sits in a chair that is set perpendicular to Michael's end of the sofa, so that Nicky is looking at his father in profile. 
MICHAEL `Why doesn't he come live with us?' Because everything is here. 
NICKY I know, Pop. 
MICHAEL I'm lucky they don't knock down the building. It could happen anytime. And everything worth remembering is right here. 
NICKY I think the building's okay. At least for the time being. 
MICHAEL You didn't think it was okay when you lived here. You wanted to get out so fast I thought you were running a marathon. 
NICKY Normal boy's ambition. I like coming back. You know that. 
MICHAEL You tell your friends your father used to work the docks. Callused hands. But you had an attitude when you were growing up that wasn't easy for your mother and me to understand. 
Nicky is gradually unbuttoning his father's shirt so that he can wrap the bandage around the old man's chest and back. 
E 
NICKY I was in a hurry to do big things, make big mistakes. Any mistakes were okay as long as it was big. But I'm trying to see these things clearly and honestly. That's the play they're going to kill starting tonight. There's a guy out there getting ready to rip it apart. And that's us. Who we were and where we come from. 
MICHAEL So what are you going to do about it? 
NICKY What do you want me to do? 
MICHAEL Show him who we are. 
Nicky takes off the shirt. 
Michael struggles out of his T-shirt and we see that he is wearing the elastic bandage he thought he had lost. 
He is sitting with his head tilted up, eyes closed, and is unaware that he is wearing the bandage. 
Nicky takes the new bandage, winds it tightly and puts it back in the box. 
His father has gone to sleep. 
EXT. STREET BUILDING It is dark and cold. Nicky emerges and walks west, diagonally across the street, to a barbershop on the other side of Ninth Avenue. 
lliot is on the stoop waiting for him. 
INT. THE BARBER SHOP Nicky sits in the barber chair. Elliot pulls up a customer's chair and sits with his back to the mirror, more or less facing Nicky. The barber, an elderly hawk-eyed man named Dodgie, begins his preparations for Nicky's haircut. 
NICKY He carries a gun. 
ELLIOT Keep going west. Last building before the river. 
NICKY How do you Eknow. 
LLIOT Paisley Porter. 
NICKY What do you mean? 
ELLIOT About an hour and a half ago. I saw her come out of a place. She said she was visiting a friend. But she wouldn't tell me who. 
NICKY Had to be him. 
ELLIOT She was very evasive. 
Nicky gets out of the chair. Dodgie removes the sheet for him and Elliot smooths down his clothes and hair, like a pair of grooms attending a warrior. 
Nicky goes to the cabinet, gets the gun. He returns to the chair. 
NICKY I'm enjoying this more every minute. 
Elliot takes an after-dinner candy out of his pocket -- the candy he pocketed in the Italian restaurant after lunch. He blows the lint off and eats it. 
DODGIE How do you want the sideburns. 
NICKY Elegant and refined. 
EXT. SHEA STADIUM 
Crowds of people pouring down the ramps from the train station, hurrying, late. 
The umpire's room -- six men nibbling cookies, smoking a last- minute cigarette, adjusting equipment. 
An unidentified room somewhere in there lower reaches of the stadium. Twenty cases of Great Western champagne stacked and ready for the postgame celebration. 
INT. STEVEN SCHWIMMER'S LOFT Steven shaving. He does it symmetrically. A stroke under the left sideburn; a stroke under the right sideburn. Left side of jaw; right side of jaw. 
Steven standing in his shorts, applying putty to his jaw to make it square. Then a false mustache and a wavy blond hairpiece. Then a thick bronze makeup paste. 
Steven in front of a full-length mirror near the bed, putting on a bulletproof vest, which gives him a solid appearance, bulking his caved-in chest and concealing his pot belly. 
Steven putting on black trousers, a brash shirt with a bright bow tie, which he tips slightly askew. A pair of black and white shoes with elevator heels. Then his shoulder holster. 
Steven leaning over the coffee table, inserting bullets into the chamber of the revolver. 
With the gun in his holster, he stands in front of the mirror. Takes the gun out, aims it, puts it back in the holster. 
Does a dazzling karate move. 
Steven putting on a metallic rayon sport coat. A long silk scarf. 
We see a handsome, dashing young man. 
He puts on a pair of dark glasses and heads for the door. 
EXT. THE BARRYMORE pening night crowd. The sidewalk is mobbed. Limousines and taxis pulling up. Men in tuxedos, other men scalping tickets. 
GRAINY IMAGE Filling the screen. Actual footage. A man in a parachute coming down on an expanse of grass. It is the infield at Shea Stadium. He carries a sign reading "Let's Go, Mets". Security men hustle the parachutist off the field and into the Mets dugout as the game begins. 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN We see that the image is on a TV screen over the bar. The place is crowded, a neighborhood tavern. 
Near the door: Nicky embracing the owner, a beefy man named Georgie. People coming and going. 
NICKY Georgie. 
GEORGIE Nicky, God bless. You're well? Your family's well? That's all that counts. 
NICKY Are you absolutely sure? 
GEORGIE Hey. I love this guy. Be good. Stay well. I'm serious: Give my best to everybody. 
They embrace. 
Faces lining the bar. 
TV images from the game. 
People at tables standing occasionally for a better look at the game. 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE TABLE -LATER Nicky sits facing Toyota and Matthew. A young waiter is placing their food on the table. 
MATTHEW What happens if somebody comes in here right now and shoots you? 
NICKY This place becomes famous. Tour buses. Blind people feeling around for bullet holes in the wall. 
TOYOTA You see what you're doing, don't you? 
NICKY What am I doing? 
TOYOTA You're charming the boy. 
NICKY Hey, Toyota. He asked me a question. 
TOYOTA Frankie Lazzaro. Coming down the courthouse steps every day in the media. Children see this. They think you're the Secretary of the Treasury. 
NICKY That's my cousin, Angelo. 
INT. THE BARRYMORE THEATER - DRESSING ROOM The actor Peter Redmond and the director Jack Haskins. A second actor, who is about fifteen, witnesses the exchange. 
JACK This could be it. 
PETER This could be it. 
JACK This could be it. 
PETER This could be it. 
JACK Does it feel comfortable? 
PETER Does what feel comfortable? 
JACK This could be it. 
TOYOTA And the people he hurts the most are the people who love him. Despite who he is and what he does for a living. We're always saying we want to take control of our lives. You don't want to take control. You want to lose control. Jesus knows it. 
Nicky is standing again but he's not looking at the TV screen this time. His gaze is directed at someone who has just entered the tavern. 
A woman stands at the entrance, middle-aged and somewhat anxious, looking for someone. She is Lillian Rogan, Nicky's wife. 
NICKY It's a complicated subject. 
TOYOTA It's a simple subject. 
Nicky gestures that he will be right back. 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE BOOTH LILLIAN Your father said you might be here. 
NICKY Two-all after six. 
LILLIAN I've been looking for you because I want to let you know what's been going on before you read about it in a gossip column. 
NICKY We stranded five runners in the first two innings. This will come back to haunt us. 
LILLIAN I want to be fair-minded, Nicky. 
NICKY All right. What's been going on? 
LILLIAN I've been talking to a prominent divorce lawyer. 
NICKY How prominent? 
LILLIAN He has his own submarine. I'll be getting everything that matters. I'll get New York and I'll get Connecticut. 
Happy roars from the bar crowd. 
A young waiter arrives with menus. 
NICKY I'll have whatever she's having. 
LILLIAN (to Waiter) I don't want to be responsible for his food. Just a small green salad. And a Perrier. 
NICKY Bring me the bay scallops with mercury poisoning. 
WAITER Yessiree, Bob. 
NICKY Get the hell out of here. I don't want you bringing our food. Send a real waiter. 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE BAR TV images: action on the field. 
Crowd at the bar. Noise like a massive pulse beat. Bar crowd picks up chant from stadium crowd. 
BAR VOICES Rog-errrr! Dew-eeey! 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE BOOTH - LATER Dinner has arrived with a bottle of wine. A cigarette burns in the ashtray in front of Lillian. 
NICKY Opening night, Lillian. 
LILLIAN Who the hell cares? 
Scoreboard: Red Sox lead 3-2 in the seventh inning. 
EXT. THE STREET Nicky with one arm raised, hailing a taxi. He and Lillian kiss sweetly. 
A taxi pulls up and Lillian gets in. She and Nicky hold hands through the window. 
LILLIAN You look awful, sweetheart. Get a haircut. Get a lawyer. 
Across the street, the man in the cutaway is dancing with his doll. The tape machine plays, "In the Wee Small Hours of the Morning." 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN Nicky rejoins Toyota and Matthew. He carries the wine bottle and his glass. 
MATTHEW Great game. Red Sox are winning. 
NICKY They're always winning. Until they lose. 
TOYOTA Your problem is you take the easy way out. Losing is easy. 
NICKY Winning is easy. Losing is complicated. It's a lifetime's work. 
TOYOTA It may be work but it's not honest work. Faith is the real work. 
MATTHEW Clemens has a blister. Look. They're pinch-hitting for him. 
TV SCREEN 
Mike Greenwell comes up to hit for Clemens. Two pitches, two strikes. 
NICKY He's a twenty-four-game winner. He pitches seven solid innings. We scratch out a one-run lead. Of course he gets a blister. Of course they put up Greenwell even though Baylor's sitting on the bench. Of course Greenwell strikes out. 
Third pitch. Greenwell strikes out. 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE TABLE TOYOTA You made him strike out. You wished it on him. You want to lose. It's too hard for you to believe in something. It's hard to have faith. It's hard Nwork to trust somebody. 
NICKY (reciting) "It looked extremely rocky for the Boston nine that day." 
TOYOTA You're afraid to risk believing. Believe in them. Believe in your self. Take a risk. It will humanize you as a person. 
NICKY I want to believe. 
TOYOTA If you believed, you wouldn't be walking around with a handgun in your belt. What does that tell me? You want to make the night come down. 
INT. THE BARRYMORE 
iew from the wings. Jack Haskins and Renee Simon looking on. 
The stage. Peter Redmond as the Father sits at the end of the sofa. The fifteen-year-old actor who plays the Son approaches him, sitting on a footstool and leaning close. 
FATHER I always thought a night's sleep is what you get for a hard day's work. But these last weeks I lie there helpless. Hour after hour. I've come close to praying for the first time since I was your age. Pray to God to put Sme out. 
SON I talked to the doctor again, Pop. He said she's not getting any better. He wants to talk to you. I think he means right away. 
FATHER How bad is she? 
SON This could be it. 
NICKY Let's see what Henderson does. 
TV SCREEN 
Dave Henderson stands at the plate to lead off the Red Sox tenth. INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE TABLE A real waiter arrives -- obese, slow-moving, with hair curling out of his ears -- and he brings ice cream for Matthew, coffee for Toyota and a stinger for Nicky. 
NICKY Finally, I get a waiter who doesn't know "Macbeth". 
WAITER But I know you, don't I? I seen you on a poster in the theater district. I'll think of your name in just a -- 
Nicky lifts his hand to stop the man. 
NICKY You know- 
BAR CROWD Hen-duuu! 
Then a moan and deep silence. 
Nicky disengages from the altercation and looks at the TV screen. 
TV SCREEN 
Dave Henderson has hit a home run and the Red Sox now lead 4- 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE TABLE 
Toyota and Matthew are jubilant, and Nicky is quick to join them. It is the only lively table in the place. 
MATTHEW People are dependable. 
TOYOTA Life is good. 
NICKY Baseball is life. 
TV SCREEN 
The Red Sox push across another run when Barrett singles, driving home Boggs. 
NICKY Enjoy your ice cream, kid. When you're an old man it'll come back to you. The same deep sweet soft toothy taste. And you'll remember where you were and what you saw. 
Scoreboard shows: Red Sox 5, Mets 3, going into the last of the tenth. 
INT. THE BARRYMORE he theater is nearly emptied out. A few people still heading toward the exits. Laurel Rogan remains seated, wearing her headset, listening to the ball game. She is concentrating deeply, fists clenched. 
Only one other person is still seated, three rows back. It is Steven and he is looking intently at Laurel. 
The house lights dim. 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN Toyota, Matthew and Nicky are huddled closely, watching the screen. Matthew is seated now and Nicky leans over him from behind, framing the boy's head in his hands so that Matthew's attention will be directed unswervingly to the action on the screen. 
The bar crowd is somber. 
Nicky drops his mob accent. 
NICKY This is something no one has been privileged to see in almost seventy years. Very few people now alive can say that they have seen what you are about to see, Matthew. The Red Sox win a World Series. This is deeply, intensely personal. All the mistakes I've made, all the envy, fear and violence that's encased in this little envelope we call a person -- all washed away in the next few minutes. And your grandmother knows why. 
Bob Stanley trots in from the bullpen. 
NICKY (O.S.) It's Stanley. It's the Steamer. Fate has spoken to this man in the depths of the night. 
MATTHEW (O.S.) What did it say? 
NICKY (O.S.) A thousand things. 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE TABLE MATTHEW You're hurting my head. 
Nicky releases his grip on Matthew's head. 
The bar crowd begins to chant. 
BAR VOICES Mookie, Mookie, Mookie, Mookie! 
TV SCREEN 
Mookie Wilson stands in against Bob Stanley. 
MATTHEW (O.S.) We're still winning. That's what counts. 
First pitch to Wilson -- he swings and misses. 
Silence from the bar crowd, cheers from Nicky's table. 
Second pitch to Wilson -- he fouls it off. No balls, two strikes. 
Sound begins to fade. Wilson fouls off a pitch. Wilson takes a ball, outside. Wilson fouls off another pitch. 
Absolute, unnatural silence. 
Stanley prepares to throw. The silence suddenly breaks and for the first time we hear the TV Announcers clearly. 
ANNOUNCER 1 The Sox are one pitch away. 
ANNOUNCER 2 One pitch away. 
ANNOUNCER 1 Stanley's getting ready. 
ANNOUNCER 2 This could be it. 
ANNOUNCER 1 This could be it. 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE TABLE Nicky recognizing the line from his play. 
NICKY This could be it! 
MATTHEW This could be it! 
TOYOTA This could be it! 
NICKY This could be it! 
Nicky is charged with excitement, hearing the line as a favorable sign, a positive connection between the play and the game. 
NICKY Classic. 
SECOND MAN Scintillating. 
FIRST MAN I still don't believe it. 
NICKY Have to hurry back. 
SECOND MAN Hurry back. Hurry back to what? 
NICKY Eleventh inning. What else? 
FIRST MAN (zipping up) I think you're a little confused. Nothing personal friend. 
NICKY What are you talking about? 
FIRST MAN What are we talking about? 
NICKY Yes. What are you implying? 
The second man approaches the urinal. 
SECOND MAN Game six is history,pal. 
NICKY You're not making sense. 
FIRST MAN We're not making sense. 
SECOND MAN Did you see Mookie hit the ball? 
NICKY Of course I saw it. 
FIRST MAN Did you see the winning run score? 
NICKY You're not making sense. Make sense. 
Nicky throws his paper towel at the men. No one moves. They are trying to interpret this action. 
NICKY You're implying I missed something. What did I Fmiss? 
IRST MAN You missed the boat, Popeye the Sailorman. 
Nicky charges the men. He and the First Man wrestle each other into the stall. 
SECOND MAN Hold him till I zip up, Tommy. 
Nicky and the First Man are grappling in the stall. Second Man hurriedly washes his hands at the basin. 
NICKY Baseball is life. Life is good. 
Al three men in the stall, wrestling. Nicky has one foot in the bowl as someone's elbow strikes the handles and the toilet flushes. 
INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE BAR AREA - A LITTLE 103 LATER 
The crowd is slowly breaking up. A few people still clustered near the TV sets, which are showing replays. 
STEVEN If you're wondering about the firearm. 
LAUREL Yes. 
STEVEN This building is not secure. 
They are all over the sofa, working on the removal of Steven's shirt. 
INT. THE ENTRANCEWAY Nicky makes his way past the debris. The front door is gone, the inner door smashed and battered -- door knobs gone and locking mechanism ripped out. 
He starts up the stairs past a dead or sleeping body. 
INT. THE LOFT On the sofa, Laurel is straddling Steven, whose shirt is almost completely off, exposing his bulletproof vest. Laurel is blouseless and barefoot, with her unzipped skirt still on and her bra dangling from one shoulder. 
LAUREL I have this thing where I have to know a person is being honest with me before, you know, I can feel completely free to be myself. 
STEVEN We're strangers in the night. The last thing we want is honesty. 
LAUREL What do we want? 
STEVEN Mystery. Deception. 
LAUREL Deception isn't something I personally consider sexy. 
STEVEN What's sexy? 
LAUREL Knowing who a person is. Down deep. 
STEVEN Even if the truth about a person is sad or depressing or shocking? 
LAUREL You won't even tell me your name. What's shocking about a name? 
Steven maneuvers himself into a sitting position so that he and Laurel face each other at equal height and at close quarters. 
STEVEN Even if the truth requires a certain adjustment? 
Steven begins removing the cosmetic putty around his naturally shallow chin. He uses Laurel's hair clip to scrape his jaw clean. Then he peels off his fake mustache. And borrows Laurel's dangling bra cup to wipe the bronzing agent off his face. 
INT. THE LANDING Nicky stands with his back to Steven's door. His gun is out. He holds it up near his face, muzzle pointed up. 
He looks at the gun as if it had feelings and personality, and he speaks to it as to a sympathetic friend. 
NICKY I used to go to the movies all the time. (MORE) 
NICKY(cont'd) I saw a hundred situations like this. A man and a gun -- and a locked door. Lee Marvin or Steve McQueen. And I used to say to Lillian because we went to a hundred movies that we saw together or that I saw because she had seen them, and I'd say, `Watch him kick in the door with one kick,' And it might be Steve McQueen or Jeff Chandler, holding the gun up like this, and he would turn and kick the door and it would fly open at once, and I would say to Lillian, `How completely phony. Whoever made this movie has no idea how hard it is to kick in an actual door in real life.' I still love Lillian. But it's not easy to kick in a door. I knew they would lose and they lost, so what are we so upset about? They lost tonight, they'll lose tomorrow. It's written on the wind. INT. THE LOFT Laurel is on her feet, backing away slightly. Steven removed his shoes and stands in his stocking feet, noticeably shorter than he'd been earlier. 
He begins to unstrap the bulletproof vest, causing Laurel to retreat further. 
INT. THE LANDING NICKY These wives named Lillian. I used to say to her, `You don't kick a door once or twice and expect it to open. It's only in the movies a man can kick in a door with such amazing ease. Because a real door requires a tremendous and prolonged pounding before it finally gives way.' He's a great player...how could that ball go through his legs? 
Nicky turns, steps back and kicks the door. It opens at once. 
INT. THE LOFT Steven and Laurel are briefly immobilized by shock as the door comes flying open. 
Nicky moves toward the candle-lit couple. 
He shouts into the darkness. 
NICKY YOU'RE DEAD! 
Laurel puts her hand on his shoulder. 
LAUREL What will we talk about? 
NICKY Everything. 
Nicky sees one of the New York Magazine ads, Steven Schwimmer's face mounted on the cardboard. He fires three times, wiping out Schwimmer's eyes. 
LAUREL Will I believe you when you tell me something? 
NICKY There's nothing left for me to lie about. 
Nicky starts into the darkness only to see Steven emerge from the shadows, his gun lowered. Oddly, he seems distracted by something on another part of the room. He is looking at the TV set on the counter. 
Nicky watches him approach the kitchen area. He follows, gun raised. 
Steven sits on a stool to watch TV. 
Nicky approaches warily, his gun aimed at Steven's head, which is blue-lit by the TV screen. 
NICKY You're dead. I see you on a morgue slab drained of all fluids. 
Laurel follows at a distance to see what they're so interested in. 
Nicky puts the gun muzzle flush against Steven's temple. 
NICKY I see the outline of your body in chalk on this very floor. 
LAUREL (whispering) Daddy, wait. 
Steven is watching slow-motion footage of Bill Buckner missing the slow roller. 
STEVEN Then they lost? 
NICKY Why does it matter? 
STEVEN If they lost tonight, they'll lose tomorrow. It's all over. 
NICKY Why do you care? 
STEVEN They're my team. 
NICKY No. They're not your team. They're my team. 
Nicky cocks the hammer. 
STEVEN They're my team, too. I grew up on Boyleston Street. Right by Fenway Park. I went to fifty or sixty games a year. All by myself. I was one of those kids with scabby elbows. I called out to the players. `Look over here. Hi, I'm Steven. My parents are divorced.' 
NICKY I went to college in Boston so I could be near the Red Sox. I took summer classes and the cut them to go to the game. My wife is from Boston. Lillian Ziegler? 
STEVEN The Red Sox were my world. I surrendered my existence to a team that couldn't win the big one. 
