GANDHI 
Written by 
John Briley 
Final Draft 
EXTERIOR - SKY - DAY 
The camera is moving toward an Indian city. We are high and far away, only the sound of the wind as we grow nearer and nearer, and through the passing clouds these words appear: 
"No man's life can be encompassed in one telling. There is no way to give each year its allotted weight, to include each event, each person who helped to shape a lifetime. What can be done is to be faithful in spirit to the record, and to try to find one's way to the heart of the man..." 
And now we are approaching the city, the squalor of the little shanty dwellings around the outskirts, the shadows of large factories... And as we move nearer, coursing over the parched terrain, the tiny fields of cultivation, strands of sound are woven through the main titles, borne on the wind, images from the life we are seeking: 
British: "Who the hell is he?!", lower class British: "I don't know, sir."... "My name is Gandhi. Mohandas K. Gandhi."... A woman's voice, tender, soft: "You are my best friend, my highest guru... and my sovereign lord."... A man (Gandhi): "I am asking you to fight!"... An angry aristocratic English voice: "At home children are writing 'essays' about him!"... the sound of massed rifle fire, screams... 
EXTERIOR - CITY - DAY 
And now we are over the city, coming in toward a particular street in the affluent suburbs of New Delhi... there are a few cars (it is 1948), and we are closing on a milling crowd near the entrance to one of the larger homes. 
We see saris, Indian tunics, a sprinkling of "Gandhi" caps, several tongas (two-wheeled, horse-drawn taxis)... the shreds of sound continue -- American woman, flirtatious, intimate: "You're the only man I know who makes his own clothes." Gandhi's laugh... The sound of rioting, women's cries and screams of terror... An American voice: "This man of peace"... 
And as the titles end we begin to pick up the sounds of the street... an Australian and his wife, a BBC correspondent... all in passing, as the camera finally closes and holds on one young man: Godse. 
BIRLA HOUSE - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Godse steps from a tonga as the crowd begins to move toward an entrance-way at the back of a long wall. 
HOUSE SERVANT'S VOICE He will be saying prayers in the garden -- just follow the others. 
In contrast to those about him, there is tension in Godse's face, an air of danger in his movements. 
He glances at two policemen who are talking casually, absorbed in their own gossip -- then he looks back at another tonga that pulls up just behind his. Two young men (Apte and Karkare) meet Godse's gaze, and again we get the sense of imminent danger. 
They descend and pay their driver absently, their eyes watching the crowd. 
Sitting along in the shadows of a stationary tonga a little distance down the street an elderly man (Prakash) with a short, close-cropped beard and the taut, sunken flesh of a cadaver is watching... 
Apte and Karkare look back at him. There is just the slightest acknowledgment and then Prakash lifts his eyes to the gate, as though to tell them to be about their business. 
THE GATE AT BIRLA HOUSE - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Godse hesitates before approaching the two gardeners who nonchalantly flank the entrance. He stiffens himself, cautiously touches something under his khaki jacket, then glances back at the stoic face of Prakash. Prakash's gaze is as firm and unrelenting as a death's head. Godse turns back, wetting his lips nervously, then moves into the middle of a group going through the gate. 
GARDEN - BIRLA HOUSE - EXTERIOR - TWILIGHT 
A fairly numerous crowd is gathering here, informally filling the area on one side of a walk that leads to a little pavilion -- some devout, some curious, some just eager to be near the great man. 
Godse moves forward through them toward the front just as hushed voices begin to remark -- "I see him." "Here he comes!" "Which one is Manu?"... 
Apte and Karkare move to different sides of Godse, staying a little behind, their movements sly and wary, aware of people watching. 
Featuring Gandhi. We see him distantly through the crowd. The brown, wiry figure cloaked only in loincloth and shawl, still weak from his last fast and moving without his customary spring and energy as he is supported by his two grand nieces, his "walking sticks," Manu and Abha. 
We do not see him clearly until the very last moment -- only glimpses of him as he smiles, and exchanges little jokes with some of the crowd and the two young women who support him, occasionally joining his hands together in greeting to someone in particular, then once more proceeding with a hand on the shoulder of each of the girls. 
The camera keeps moving closer, and the point of view is always Godse's, but Gandhi is always in profile or half obscured by the heads and shoulders of those in front. We hear the occasional click of a camera, and we intercut with shots of Godse moving tensely up through the crowd, of Apte and Karkare on the periphery of the crowd, watching with sudden fear and apprehension, like men paralysed by the presence of danger. 
Featuring Godse. He slides through to the very front rank. His breathing is short and there is perspiration around the sides of his temples. And now, for an instant we see Gandhi close from his point of view. He is only a few steps away, but turned to speak to someone on the other side, and Manu half obscures him. 
Godse swallows dryly, tension lining his face -- then he moves boldly out into Gandhi's path, bumping Manu, knocking a vessel for incense from her hands. 
MANU (gently) Brother -- Bapu is already late for prayers. 
Ignoring her, his nerves even more taut, Godse joins his hands together and bows in greeting to the Mahatma. 
And now we see Gandhi in full shot. The cheap glasses, the nut-brown head, the warm, eager eyes. He smiles and joins his hands together to exchange Godse's greeting. 
Godse moves his right hand rapidly from the stance of prayer to his jacket, in an instant -- it holds a gun, and he fires point blank at Gandhi -- loud, startling -- once, twice... thrice. 
Gandhi's white shawl is stained with blood as he falls. 
GANDHI Oh, God... oh, God... 
Amid the screams and sounds of chaos we dissolve through to 
KINGSWAY - NEW DELHI - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Close shot. Soldier's feet moving in the slow step, half- step, step of the requiem march... 
Full shot. The huge funeral procession -- crowds such as have never been seen on the screen massed along the route. People everywhere, clinging to monuments, lamp standards, trees -- and as the camera pulls back from the funeral cortege it reveals more and more... and more. All are silent. We only hear a strange, rhythmic shuffling, pierced by an occasional wail of grief. We see the soldiers and sailors lining the route, their hands locked together in one seemingly endless chain. We see the two hundred men of the Army, Navy and Air Force drawing the Army weapon-carrier that bears the body of Gandhi. 
And finally we see Gandhi lying on the weapon-carrier, surrounded by flowers, a tiny figure in this ocean of grief and reverence. 
THE COMMENTATORS' ROSTRUM - KINGSWAY - NEW DELHI - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Commentators from all over the world are covering the ceremony. We concentrate on one, let us say the most distinguished American broadcaster of the time, Edward R. Murrow, who sits on the makeshift platform, a microphone marked "CBS" before him, describing the procession as technicians and staff move quietly around him. 
MURROW (clipped, weighted) ...The object of this massive tribute died as he had always lived -- a private man without wealth, without property, without official title or office... 
KINGSWAY - NEW DELHI - EXTERIOR - DAY 
As the cortege continues on its way, we get shots of the marching soldiers, of the faces of Sikhs, and Tamils, Anglo- Indians, Moslems from the north, Marathas from the south, blue-eyed Parsees, dark-skinned Keralans... 
MURROW'S VOICE-OVER Mahatma Gandhi was not a commander of great armies nor ruler of vast lands, he could boast no scientific achievements, no artistic gift... Yet men, governments and dignitaries from all over the world have joined hands today to pay homage to this little brown man in the loincloth who led his country to freedom... 
We see the throng, following the weapon-carrier bier of Gandhi as it slowly inches its way along the Kingsway. 
Mountbatten, tall, handsome, bemedalled, walks at the head of dignitaries from many lands... and behind them a broad mass of Indians. For a moment we see their sandalled feet moving along the roadway and realize their quiet, rhythmic shuffling is the only noise this vast assemblage has produced. 
MURROW'S VOICE-OVER Pope Pius, the Archbishop of Canterbury, President Truman, Chiang Kai-shek, The Foreign Minister of Russia, the President of France... are among the millions here and abroad who have lamented his passing. In the words of General George C. Marshall, the American Secretary of State, "Mahatma Gandhi had become the spokesman for the conscience of mankind..." 
In the crowd following the bier we pick out the tall, English figure of Mirabehn, dressed in a sari, her face taut in a grief that seems ready to break like the Ganges in flood. Near her a tall, heavy-set man, Germanic, still powerful of build and mien though his white hair and deep lines suggest a man well into his sixties (Kallenbach). He too marches with a kind of numb air of loss that is too personal for national mourning. 
On the edge of the street an American newspaperman (Walker) watches as the bier passes him. He has been making notes, but his hand stops now and we see the profile of Gandhi from his point of view as the weapon-carrier silently rolls by. It is personal, close. Walker clenches his teeth and there is moisture in his eyes as he looks down. He tries to bring his attention to his pad again, but his heart is not in it and he stares with hollow emptiness at the street and the horde of passing feet following the bier. 
MURROW'S VOICE-OVER ...a man who made humility and simple truth more powerful than empires." And Albert Einstein added, "Generations to come will scarce believe that such a one as this ever in flesh and blood walked upon this earth." 
The camera picks out those who ride on the weapon-carrier with Gandhi's body... the stout, blunt, but now shattered Patel, Gandhi's son, Devadas, the strong, almost fierce face of Maulana Azad, now angry at the Gods themselves... and finally Pandit Nehru -- a face with the strength of a hero, the sensitivity of a poet, and now wounded like the son of a loving father. 
MURROW'S VOICE-OVER ... but perhaps to this man of peace, to this fighter who fought without malice or falsehood or hate, the tribute he would value most has come from General Douglas McArthur: "If civilization is to survive," the General said this morning, "all men cannot fail to adopt Gandhi's belief that the use of force to resolve conflict is not only wrong but contains within itself the germ of our own self-destruction."... 
A news truck is parked in the mass of the crowd. As the cortege nears, the photographers on it stand to snap their pictures. There is a newsreel crew center. The camera features a woman photographer (Margaret Bourke-White) who sits with her legs dangling over the side of the truck, her famous camera held loosely in her hand, un-regarded, as she watches the body of Gandhi approach. The intelligent features are betrayed by the emotion in her eyes. For an instant we see Gandhi from her point of view, and read the personal impact it has on her. 
MURROW'S VOICE-OVER Perhaps for the rest of us, the most satisfying comment on this tragedy comes from the impudent New York PM which today wrote, "There is still hope for a world which reacts as reverently as ours has to the death of a man like Gandhi."... 
Mr. Baker smothers a smile. 
TYEB MOHAMMED Mr. Gandhi, in this country Indians are not allowed to walk along a pavement with a "Christian"! 
Gandhi looks at Khan incredulously. 
GANDHI You mean you employ Mr. Baker as your attorney, but you can't walk down the street with him? 
KHAN I can. But I risk being kicked into the gutter by someone less "holy" than Mr. Baker. 
He smiles, but his eyes show that it is no joke. 
Gandhi glances from one to the other them -- absorbing the inconceivable. And then almost before our eyes his innocence of the world fuses with his anger at the injustice of it all. 
GANDHI Well, then, it must be fought. We are children of God like everyone else. 
KHAN (dryly) Allah be praised. And what battalions will you call upon? 
GANDHI I -- I will write to the press -- here -- and in England. (He turns to Baker firmly) And I will use the courts. 
He lifts the documents threateningly. 
SINGH You will make a lot of trouble. 
Its tone is chilling, and Gandhi's firmness is shaken a little. 
GANDHI We are members of the Empire. And we come from an ancient civilization. Why should we not walk on the pavements like other men? 
The sturdy Khan is studying him with a look of wry interest. 
KHAN I rather like the idea of an Indian barrister in South Africa. I'm sure our community could keep you in work for some time, Mr. Gandhi -- even if you caused a good deal of trouble. (Gandhi reacts uncertainly.) Especially if you caused a good deal of trouble. 
Gandhi glances at Tyeb Mohammed and Baker, then stiffens, plainly frightened by the challenge, but just as plainly determined to take it. 
MOSQUE - EXTERIOR - DAY 
We see a rather crudely stitched sign: "Indian Congress Party of South Africa." Gandhi, now sporting a moustache, stands with Khan and Singh near a fire that has been started in the open area before the Mosque. A wire basket has been placed on supports over the fire. Before them, a small crowd, mostly Indian (Hindus, Sikhs, Muslims), but with a few Whites drawn by curiosity. Gandhi whispers, trying to ignore the crowd. 
GANDHI There's the English reporter. I told you he'd come. 
We see the English reporter waiting skeptically. Near him, trying to be inconspicuous on the edge of the small crowd, are five policemen (one sergeant and four constables). A horse-drawn paddy wagon is drawn up beside them. 
KHAN You also said your article would draw a thousand people. (If the crowd numbers 100 they're lucky.) At least some of the Hindus brought their wives. 
We see five or six women in saris standing together. 
GANDHI No. I asked my wife to organize that. 
We feature Gandhi's wife, Ba, standing at the front of the women. She possesses a surprising delicacy of feature, with large expressive eyes and a beautiful mouth -- but at this moment she is ill at ease and uncertain, forcing herself to do that which she would rather not. 
SINGH (alarmed) Some of them are leaving... 
Gandhi wets his lips nervously. He glances with a little apprehension at the police, then takes his notes from his pocket and moves to the front of the fire. He holds up his hand for attention. He forces a smile -- then starts reading -- 
GANDHI Ladies and Gentlemen, we have asked you to gather here to help us proclaim our right to be treated as equal citizens of the Empire. 
It is flat and dull, like someone reading a speech to themselves, and those in the crowd who had hesitated before wandering off shrug and continue on their way. Gandhi is unnerved by it a little but he struggles on -- louder, but just as colorlessly. 
GANDHI We do not seek conflict. We know the strength of the forces arrayed against us, know that because of them we can only use peaceful means -- but we are determined that justice will be done! 
This last has come more firmly, and he lifts his head to the crowd, as though expecting a reaction. Three or four committed supporters applaud as on cue, but his technique is so inexpert that it draws nothing but blank faces from the bulk of them. He glances nervously at Ba, who is embarrassed for them both now. She wraps her sari more closely around her and her expression is a wife's "I told you so" -- sufferance, mortification and loyalty, all in one. Gandhi wets his lips again -- and takes a square of cardboard from his pocket -- his "pass." 
GANDHI The symbol of our status is embodied in this pass -- which we must carry at all times, but no European even has to have. 
He holds it up. A constable glances at the police sergeant. 
GANDHI And the first step to changing our status is to eliminate this difference between us. 
And he turns and drops his pass in the wire basket over the fire. The flames engulf it. 
The police sergeant's eyes go wide with disbelief. The crowd murmurs in shock. At last Gandhi has got a reaction, but the dropping of the card has been as matter-of-fact as his speaking, with none of the drama one might expect from so startling a gesture. Even so, a constable glances at the police sergeant again, "Do we take him?". The sergeant just shakes his head, "Wait." 
Khan moves up to Gandhi as the tremor of reaction ripples through the crowd. 
KHAN (quietly) You write brilliantly, but you have much to learn about handling men. 
He takes Gandhi's notes from him, and faces the crowd. 
KHAN (the reading not fluent, but firm and pointed) We do not want to ignite... the fear or hatred of anyone. But we ask you -- Hindu, Muslim and Sikh -- to help us light up the sky... and the minds of the British authorities -- with our defiance of this injustice. 
It is the end of the speech. He looks at the crowd. No one knows quite what to do. Gandhi harumphs -- gesturing to a shallow box Singh holds. Kahn turns back, extemporizing rather lamely. 
KHAN We will now burn the passes of our committee and its supporters. We ask you to put your passes on the fire with -- 
POLICE SERGEANT Oh, no, you bloody well don't! 
He has stepped forward with his constables, who have faced the crowd, halting the tentative movements of the few committed supporters toward the fire. 
POLICE SERGEANT Those passes are government property! And I will arrest the first man who tries to burn one! 
He is facing the crowd. Behind him, Khan holds himself erect and slowly takes his own card from his pocket. He holds it aloft and then lowers it resolutely into the wire basket. The crowd reacts and the sergeant turns just in time to see it dropped in the flame. 
POLICE SERGEANT Take him away! 
He gestures to a constable, who turns from the crowd and marches to Khan, seizing him by the arm and marching him to the paddy wagon. As he passes the sergeant, the sergeant takes his billy club, and faces the crowd, rapping the club menacingly against his hand. 
POLICE SERGEANT Now -- are there any more?! 
Behind him, Gandhi wavers indecisively a moment, then takes the box from Singh and moves to the fire. Ba holds her hand to her mouth -- terrified. Again the crowd's reaction turns the sergeant. Gandhi is at the fire. For a second, his eyes lock with the sergeant's -- and then nervously, he takes a card and drops it in the wire basket, and another. 
POLICE SERGEANT You little sammy bastard -- I -- 
He has leapt across the distance between them, knocking the box from Gandhi's hands, sending the cards flying and shoving Gandhi to the ground. He turns and faces the crowd angrily, pointing the billy club threateningly. 
POLICE SERGEANT You want that kind of trouble -- you can have it! 
Again, a murmur from the crowd turns him. Gandhi, on his hands and knees, blood trickling from his abraded cheek, has picked up a card from the ground and he leans forward apprehensively, his eyes fearfully on the sergeant, but he drops it defiantly in the basket. The sergeant's fury bursts -- and he slams the billy club down on Gandhi's head. Gandhi sags to the ground. Ba screams. She starts to run to him, but the other women seize her. 
BA Let me go! 
She fights loose, but one of the constables takes her firmly. 
The sergeant turns from the commotion to see that Gandhi, his head oozing blood, has crawled to his knees again and is picking up another card. The crowd watches. The newspaper reporter watches. Ba stares in anguish. Gandhi lifts the card. The sergeant stares at him, angry but his emotions somewhat in control after the first blow. 
SERGEANT Stop! 
An instant of hesitation, then Gandhi drops the card into the basket. The sergeant almost stops, but he strikes again. A quiver of distaste at his own act crosses his face as Gandhi sags. 
Ba smiles. Still not looking at him, she places her hand behind his head, gently. 
BA If you enjoy it a great deal you must fast for two days. 
Gandhi laughs... and buries her in love. 
STREET AND COURTYARD OF GOVERNMENT BUILDING - JOHANNESBURG - EXTERIOR - MORNING 
General Smuts -- sitting erect and imposing on a beautiful chestnut horse -- rides down a tree-lined street. He wears civilian clothes with riding boots and breeches. Behind him, a junior British officer rides as escort. He turns into the entrance-way of an imposing building. 
The hooves of Smuts's horse clatter on the cobblestones as the General rides into the courtyard. Two sentries come smartly to attention. A stable boy rushes to take the horse, and a tall civil servant approaches the General busily as he dismounts. 
TALL CIVIL SERVANT The London papers have arrived from the Cape, sir. 
SMUTS Yes -- ? 
The tall civil servant checks his notes. 
TALL CIVIL SERVANT The worst was the Daily Mail, sir. They said, "The burning of passes by Mr. Gandhi was the most significant act in colonial affairs since the Declaration of Independence." 
Smuts has given the reins to the stable boy. 
SMUTS Did they? Well, they'll find we're a little better prepared this time. Mr. Gandhi will find he's on a long hiding to nothing. 
And he strides into the building, past the smartly saluting sentries. 
GANDHI'S HOUSE - JOHANNESBURG - EXTERIOR - MORNING 
Gandhi comes from the house door. He carries a briefcase and is still dressed in European clothes, though far less elegant than we have seen him in before. His mien, the cut of his hair, all suggest a passage of time. As he turns, he stops because he is face to face with Charlie Andrews, a very tall, thin Englishman, who wears a rumpled white suit and a clerical collar. He has descended from a horse-drawn taxi that carries his luggage. He too has stopped. For a moment they both appraise each other, neither speaking. Then 
CHARLIE You'd be Gandhi -- (Gandhi nods.) ...I thought you'd be bigger. 
GANDHI I'm sorry. 
CHARLIE I -- I mean it's all right. It doesn't matter. (He suddenly steps forward and thrusts out his hand.) I'm -- my name is Andrews, Charlie Andrews. I've come from India -- I've read a great deal about you. 
GANDHI Some of it good, I hope. 
He turns and waves to the parlor window. The three boys are there -- all bigger -- and Ba holds a new addition; they all wave. And Gandhi turns back, and starts down the long, hilly street. 
GANDHI (to Charlie) Would you care to walk? 
He gestures Charlie on and starts walking. 
Charlie nods uncertainly. He looks back at the cab in confusion, then signals the driver to follow and hurries on to match strides with Gandhi's brisk pace. 
GANDHI (noting Charlie's collar) You're a clergyman. 
CHARLIE Yes. I've -- I've met some very remarkable people in India... and -- and when I read what you've been doing here, I -- I wanted to help. (He looks at Gandhi, then smiles awkwardly.) Does that surprise you? 
GANDHI Not anymore. (And now he smiles.) At first I was amazed... but when you are fighting in a just cause, people seem to pop up -- like you -- right out of the pavement. Even when it is dangerous or -- 
JOHANNESBURG SUBURB - EXTERIOR - MORNING 
They have come to a turning, nearer to town, the area poorer, run-down. Ahead of them three youths (twenty, twenty-one) in working clothes, carrying lunch boxes, lean indolently against a building directly in their path. They react to the sight of Gandhi -- fun. Then stride the pavement menacingly. One of them tosses aside his cigarette. 
FIRST YOUTH Hey -- look what's comin'! 
SECOND YOUTH A white shepherd leading a brown sammy! 
CHARLIE Perhaps I should -- 
Gandhi restrains him and shakes his head. 
GANDHI Doesn't the New Testament say, "If your enemy strikes you on the right cheek, offer him the left"? 
He starts to move forward. Charlie hesitates, then follows nervously, more nervous for Gandhi than himself. 
CHARLIE I think perhaps the phrase was used metaphorically... I don't think our Lord meant -- 
They are getting closer. The youths laughing, whispering. 
GANDHI I'm not so certain. I have thought about it a great deal. I suspect he meant you must show courage -- be willing to take a blow -- several blows -- to show you will not strike back -- nor will you be turned aside... And when -- 
One youth has flicked his cigarette -- hard. It lands at Gandhi's feet. He pauses, looking at the youth. 
GANDHI ...and when you do that it calls upon something in human nature -- something that makes his hate for you diminish and his respect increase. I think Christ grasped that and I -- I have seen it work. 
He starts forward again, he is almost on the youths -- clearly frightened, but... 
GANDHI Good morning. 
FIRST YOUTH Get off the pavement, you bloody -- 
And he reaches forth to haul Gandhi from the pavement, but -- 
A WOMAN'S VOICE Colin! Colin! What are you doing? 
A woman is leaning out of an upstairs window, looking down at the fracas disconcertedly. It is the first youth's mother and her presence reduces the pitch of his hostility considerably. 
FIRST YOUTH Nuthing... nuthing. We were just cleaning up the neighborhood a little. 
A snickering response from the other youths -- but they are embarrassed by the questioning disapproval of Colin's mother's attitude. There's no note of apology in her cold stare at Gandhi, but she clearly believes her son should not be doing what he is doing. 
COLIN'S MOTHER You're already late for work. I thought you'd gone ten minutes ago. 
The moment of crisis has passed. Nothing will happen while she is there. 
Gandhi steps back on the pavement, addressing the first youth. 
GANDHI You'll find there's room for us both. 
And he steps around him, Charlie trailing, as the first youth stares at them sullenly. 
As they stride on, Charlie glancing back -- 
CHARLIE (relieved) That was lucky. 
GANDHI I thought you were a man of God. 
CHARLIE (wittily, but making his point) I am. But I'm not so egotistical as to think He plans His day around my dilemmas. 
Gandhi laughs as they turn the corner. 
BUSY STREET - JOHANNESBURG - EXTERIOR - MORNING 
A busy street in the center of the town. Gandhi and Charlie come around the corner into it. 
Now Ba looks at him hostilely. 
BA Sora was sent to tell me I -- I must rake and cover the latrine. 
GANDHI Everyone takes his turn. 
BA It is the work of untouchables. 
GANDHI In this place there are no untouchables -- and no work is beneath any of us! 
BA (she looks up at him) I am your wife. 
GANDHI All the more reason. 
He holds her gaze as angrily as she holds his. 
BA (finally, scornfully) As you command. 
As she starts to rise he grabs her arm, but she pulls free. 
BA The others may follow you -- but you forget, I knew you when you were a boy! 
She says it derisively and it stings, but Gandhi is aware of Walker and he fights to hold his temper. 
GANDHI It's not me. It's the principle. And you will do it with joy or not do it at all! 
Ba settles back defiantly. 
BA Not at all then... 
For a moment Gandhi stares at her, and she back at him, resentfully. He suddenly reaches down and grabs her arm, pulling her roughly to her feet. 
GANDHI All right, go! You don't belong here! Go! Leave the ashram! Get out altogether! We don't want you! 
It is hushed but violent as he pulls her toward the rear door, opening it to push her out as she struggles against him. 
BA Stop it! Stop it! What are you doing!? 
She lurches free of his grip, glaring at him angrily. For a moment they both stare at each other, shattered by their violence. 
BA (bitterly) Have you no shame? I'm your wife... (Like lead) Where do you expect me to go? 
Gandhi stares at her breathlessly, his temper subsiding into a dazed remorse. He sinks numbly to a stool, sitting, holding his head in his hands. Ba studies him for a moment -- and she sighs, her temper and breathing subsiding too. She moves and kneels before him. 
GANDHI What is the matter with me...? 
A moment, then she soothes the top of his head -- like the mother-wife she is. 
BA (a beat) You are human -- only human. 
Gandhi looks up at her, blankly, abjectly. 
BA And it is even harder for those of us who do not even want to be as good as you do. 
And Gandhi grins weakly. Ba catches it and sends it back, warmer, less complicated by doubts. Gandhi sighs, putting his arms around her and she leans into him so that their heads are touching. 
GANDHI I apologize... 
Ba mutters "Hm" and holds him a little firmer. A moment. 
GANDHI I must go back to that reporter. 
Ba nods. 
BA ...And I must rake and cover the latrine. 
Gandhi holds her back so that he can look at her. She looks at him evenly -- no smile, but the warmth still in her eyes. 
IMPERIAL THEATER - INTERIOR - NIGHT 
The theater is packed. The front rows near the stage are held by rich Muslim merchants, the back of the stalls with small traders, peddlers, artisans -- Muslim, Hindu, Parsee, Sikh. The gallery is bulging with indentured laborers -- largely Hindu. The mood is restless, belligerent. 
On the stage. Gandhi moves forward and he holds up his hand for silence. Seated on the stage are Khan, Singh, three more leaders of the Indian community. Charlie Andrews and Herman Kallenbach sit at the very end of the line of chairs. Gandhi looks around the audience and we see the packed house from his point of view, ending with two plainclothes European policemen conspicuous in seats at the end of the front row. A uniformed policeman stands near them. 
GANDHI (to the house) I want to welcome you all! 
A buzz, then applause -- loud and defiant. When is subsides Gandhi looks down at the plainclothes policemen, fixing his gaze on them. 
GANDHI Every one of you. (Then, still at them) We -- have -- no -- secrets. 
And again the audience bursts into applause. The policemen just sit like stone -- confident, sure, immune to rhetoric. 
GANDHI Let us begin by being clear about General Smuts's new law. All Indians must now be fingerprinted -- like criminals. Men and women. (A rising, angry response; Gandhi just waits.) No marriage other than a Christian marriage is considered valid. Under this Act our wives and mothers are whores... And every man here a bastard. 
In the gallery a rhythmic pounding signals the anger and protest and is taken up around the hall. The police stare imperturbably. Khan leans towards Singh, nodding to Gandhi. 
KHAN He's become quite good at this. 
Singh smiles at the understatement. Gandhi holds up his hand, silencing the hall. 
GANDHI And a policeman passing an Indian dwelling -- I will not call them homes -- may enter and demand the card or any Indian woman whose dwelling it is. 
A VOICE God damn them! 
Gandhi just waits. 
GANDHI Understand! He does not have to stand at the door -- he may enter. 
Now a violent response -- a large, powerful merchant rises in the third row. 
MERCHANT I swear to Allah I will kill the man who offers that insult to my home and my wife! (A guttural cheer; he glares at the police.) And let them hang me! 
Another cheer. When it subsides, Tyeb Mohammed rises near the back, where he is seated with a number of other young men. 
TYEB MOHAMMED I say talk means nothing. Kill a few officials before they disgrace one Indian woman -- then they might think twice about such laws! 
The police half rise to look back at him, but there is a smattering of applause and several stand to look back. 
TYEB MOHAMMED'S FRIEND In that cause, I would be willing to die! 
And now there is general applause. Gandhi waits, then 
GANDHI I praise such courage. I need such courage -- because in this cause, I too am prepared to die... (A response; he looks at Tyeb Mohammed) But, my friend, there is no cause for which I am prepared to kill. 
He looks at the audience. This is the more sober Gandhi they have come to know. 
GANDHI I have asked you here tonight because despite all their troops and police, I think there is a way to defeat this law. Whatever they do to us we will attack no one, kill no one... But we will not (the climatic point) give our fingerprints -- not one of us. 
ENGLISH JOURNALIST Will you support the war effort, Mr. Gandhi? 
An exuberant woman puts a garland over his shoulders. 
GANDHI I -- I have demanded rights as a British citizen, it is therefore my duty to help in the defense of the British Empire. 
He smiles uncertainly again. As he turns he is face to face with an American reporter. 
AMERICAN REPORTER What are you going to do now that you're back in India? 
GANDHI I don't know... I don't know... 
An Indian reporter has cornered Ba behind him. 
SECOND INDIAN REPORTER As an Indian woman how could you accept the indignity of prison? 
Gandhi half-twists to hear Ba's answer, but his arm is taken by a young Indian (Nehru) in elegant European clothes. Another garland is thrown over his shoulders. 
NEHRU Please, Mr. Gandhi. 
Featuring Ba. Offhand, her eyes on Gandhi ahead. 
BA My dignity comes from following my husband. 
She joins her hands, acknowledging a garland placed around her shoulders, and pushes on after Gandhi. Charlie helps to guide her. 
Featuring Gandhi. The young Nehru, somewhat amused by all the excitement, leads Gandhi through the crowd to a little flower-covered platform. We see a banner: THE CONGRESS PARTY WELCOMES GANDHI. 
NEHRU (he too speaks with an Oxbridge accent) Just a few words -- then we'll get you to civilization. 
He grins. He has guided Gandhi to the first step of the platform. Another garland is wrapped around Gandhi's shoulders, and in some embarrassment, he mounts the platform. There is a great cheer, but in the silence that follows we hear the military band from across the way as the troops prepare to march off. Gandhi looks around at the crowd. Finally he speaks out. 
GANDHI I -- I am glad to be home. (A little round of applause.) I -- I thank you for your greeting. 
He makes the pranam and starts for the steps. The crowd is a little disappointed, but they manage a cheer and applause. 
Nehru is standing next to a heavy-set, well-dressed man (Patel). They exchange a wry glance, "Not exactly a world- beater." 
A car door slams. The camera pulls back. Nehru has slammed the door of a gleaming Rolls Royce touring car, the top down. He has seated Gandhi in it beside Patel, taking Gandhi's knapsack. An Indian chauffeur rides in front. The crowd still surges around and Gandhi is looking apprehensively back for Ba. 
NEHRU We'll follow with your wife -- don't worry, everything's arranged. 
He grins boyishly, in part to comfort, in part unable to contain his amusement at Gandhi and his evident confusion. 
PATEL'S CAR - STREETS OF BOMBAY - EXTERIOR - DAY 
With Gandhi still looking back anxiously, the car pulls off. He finally turns to Patel. 
GANDHI Who is that young man? 
PATEL That's young Nehru. He's got his father's intellect, his mother's looks and the devil's charm. If they don't ruin him at Cambridge -- Wave! Wave! -- he may amount to something. 
There are crowds along the street, and Gandhi -- in surprise that they are for him -- waves tentatively. Patel waves too but he eyes Gandhi rather critically. 
PATEL I must say when I first saw you as a bumbling lawyer here in Bombay I never thought I'd be greeting you as a national hero. 
GANDHI I'm hardly that, Mr. Patel. 
PATEL Oh, yes, you are. It's been two hundred years since an Indian has cocked a snoot at the British Empire and got away with it. And stop calling me Mr. Patel, you're not a junior clerk anymore. 
GANDHI (a beat; still hesitant) No. 
They have come to a main thoroughfare. A crowd still lines the streets but it is thin and around and between we see groups of desperate poor, parked on the pavement, staring with blank curiosity at the passing car, but too listless and too out of touch to move from their little squatters' patches. 
Patel looks at Gandhi's clothes rather disapprovingly. 
PATEL The new Military Governor of the North West Province was on that ship. Too bad you came back Third Class -- he might have been impressed by a successful barrister who had outmaneuvered General Smuts. 
Gandhi is staring at the street. From his point of view we hold on a gaunt young, aged woman holding a baby wrapped in rags as threadbare as her sari. Another hollow-faced child leans against her. 
GANDHI (leadenly) Yes... I'm sure... 
PATEL'S GARDEN - EXTERIOR - DAY 
A splendid peacock, its tail fanned in brilliant display, lords it on a velvet lawn. A woman in a sumptuous silk sari is trying to feed it crumbs. Behind her, Gandhi's reception is in full spate -- silver trays, tables covered in fine linen, Indian servants, a swimming pool, a small fountain, the grounds filled with Indian millionaires and dignitaries gathered with their wives to meet the new hero from South Africa. 
A beautiful and beautifully dressed woman (Mrs. Nehru) stands next to her distinguished husband (Motilal Nehru). 
MRS. NEHRU (wittily) No, I leave practical matters to my husband and revolution to my son... 
She nods lightly toward Nehru. 
Featuring Nehru who is introducing Gandhi to two men, one tall, slender, ascetic looking, but dressed impeccably (Jinnah). The other with a haunting face -- beard, flowing dark hair, the air of a poet or a ruthlessly dedicated radical (Prakash -- whom we recognize from the opening sequence in Delhi at Gandhi's assassination). 
NEHRU Mr. Jinnah, our joint host, member of Congress, and the leader of the Muslim League and Mr. Prakash, who I fear is awaiting trial for sedition and inducement to murder. 
Gandhi has bowed to Jinnah, now he looks a little startled at Prakash. Prakash grins and makes the pranam to Gandhi. 
PRAKASH I have not actually pulled a trigger, Mr. Gandhi, I have simply written that if an Englishman kills an Indian for disobeying his law, then it is an Indian's duty to kill an Englishman for enforcing his law in a land that is not his. 
Gandhi nods... 
GANDHI It is a clever argument; I am not sure it will produce the end you desire. 
He meets Prakash's gaze firmly, the first moment we have seen any sign of the Gandhi of South Africa. 
JINNAH (testingly) We hope you intend to join us in the struggle for Home Rule, Mr. Gandhi. 
GANDHI (a pause) I -- 
Charlie Andrews touches Gandhi's arm, excusing himself to the others. 
CHARLIE May I? Mohan -- I would like you to meet someone. 
Gandhi bows to the others and is led off to an Indian bishop in full clerical robes. Behind him we see Patel regaling a small group with some story of court or society. 
As Gandhi leaves, Jinnah, Nehru and Prakash watch him clinically. Except for the servants, Gandhi is the only Indian male not in European clothes. 
NEHRU He told the press he would support the British in the war. 
PRAKASH (acidly) That's non-violence for you. 
JINNAH Is he a fool? 
Nehru grins slowly, thoughtfully. 
NEHRU I'm not certain... But I wouldn't be surprised. 
THE TRAIL TO GANDHI'S ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY 
An open touring car struggling along the bumpy trail. Nehru drives, four friends as young as he with him, all dressed in the same expensive, British manner. 
FIRST FRIEND This can't be the way! 
Nehru is looking a little harassed, from the ragging he is taking and from the ride. The ashram is only half-finished, the ground unworked, the buildings only partially completed and the whole looking like some primitive frontier outpost. They are finally brought to a halt by a goat that is tethered right across the path. 
SECOND FRIEND (a mocking quote) Yes, I'm sure this is the direction India is taking. 
The others laugh; Nehru suffers. 
SECOND FRIEND To think I almost got excited by Mr. Jinnah when all this was awaiting me. 
ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Nehru has half risen in his seat to address Charlie Andrews, who, walking from one somnolent building to another, has stopped dead at the sight of the car. He carries sheaves of page proofs. 
NEHRU We're looking for Mr. Gandhi! 
CHARLIE Ah, you'll find him under the tree by the river. (He points off, then glances at the car.) You'd better leave the car -- the ground is rather soft. 
NEHRU Thank you . . . 
He looks around the ashram a little dismally. 
FIRST FRIEND (drolly, as he climbs out) Come on! I'm anxious to meet this new "force"! 
ASHRAM - TREE BY RIVER - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Gandhi sits under a tree, peeling potatoes. Nehru and his friends are sprawled out around him. Beside them, the river; in the background the business of the ashram goes on. 
GANDHI I try to live like an Indian, as you see... it is stupid of course, because in our country it is the British who decide how an Indian lives -- what he may buy, what he may sell. And from their luxury in the midst of our terrible poverty they instruct us on what is justice and what is sedition. (He looks at them, a teasing but mordant grin.) So it is only natural that our best young minds assume an air of Eastern dignity, while greedily assimilating every Western weakness as quickly as they can acquire it. 
His smile is sardonic, but genuine, theirs embarrassed and self-conscious. 
NEHRU (defensively) If we have Home Rule that will change. 
Gandhi has finished the last potato. He glances at Nehru then drops the potato in the bowl. He lifts the pail of peelings to Nehru. 
GANDHI Would you, please? 
Nehru in his fine linen suit takes the pail awkwardly. His friends watch with amusement, but they too rise to follow as they head for the kitchen. 
GANDHI And why should the English grant us Home Rule? Here, we must take the peelings to the goats. 
He re-directs Nehru toward a trough where two or three goats are tethered, but he keeps right on talking. 
GANDHI We only make wild speeches, or perform even wilder acts of terrorism. We've bred an army of anarchists but not one single group that can really fight the British anywhere. 
NEHRU (surprised) I thought you were against fighting. 
They have reached the trough. 
GANDHI Just spread it around -- they like the new peelings mixed with the rotting ones. 
Nehru has carefully walked around something distasteful on the ground, now he dumps the peelings along the trough and spreads them "delicately." Gandhi scoops some peelings from the trough to feed a goat that nudges him. 
GANDHI Where there is injustice, I've always believed in fighting. (He looks at Nehru.) The question is do you fight to change things, or do you fight to punish. (His smile.) For myself, I have found that we are all such sinners we should leave punishment to God. And if we really want to change things there are better ways of doing it than by derailing trains or slashing someone with a sword. 
He meets Nehru's gaze, and for a moment something deeper than argument passes between them. Then something catches Gandhi's eye. He looks off. Ba stands, watching him, waiting. 
BA The fire is ready. 
Gandhi turns. The goat is reaching for his bowl of potatoes. He pushes it away and starts for the kitchen. 
GANDHI You see, even here we live under tyranny. 
Nehru grins, captured by Gandhi's seriousness, and his humor. He hasn't moved, and neither have his friends. They watch Gandhi as he carries his bowl of potatoes to Ba. 
NEHRU (reflectively) I told you... 
FIRST FRIEND Hm... but look at him. Some "fighter"! I can see the British shaking now. 
Gandhi plods on toward the kitchen, carrying the bowl of potatoes. 
THE RIVER BED AT THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Clothes are dipped in the brownish water. Ba and an ashramite woman squat by the river, washing clothes. It is long past the monsoons and they have had to come far out in the riverbed to the water. But they are laughing at their task. 
BA But it's the ink that is the most diffic -- 
She stops, because coming along the riverbed toward them is a man (Shukla) who looks as though he has come a long, weary way. His face is gaunt, his little bundle of belongings pathetic. As he nears them, he pauses. 
SHUKLA I am looking for Mr. Gandhi... 
GANDHI'S HUT - ASHRAM - INTERIOR - DUSK 
Shadowed, the end of the day. Gandhi sits cross-legged, watching solemnly as Shukla reaches with his fingers into a bowl to eat. The fingers are thin, half-starved, like the man himself. 
SHUKLA ...I've wanted to speak to you for a long time. 
He looks up at Gandhi almost sheepishly. He does not eat yet, but his hunger is evident. Ba sits at one side in the shadows watching him as intently as Gandhi. 
SHUKLA ...our crops... we can't sell them... We have no money... but the landlords take the same rent. 
His voice is choked and near to tears, resonant with the unspoken agony his words mean for him and the others like him. He looks at Gandhi nervously for a moment, then puts the food to his mouth like a man who is starving, and trying desperately not to show it. 
Close shot. Ba. The solemn intensity of her gaze reflects her identification with the man's agony. She glances up at Gandhi... 
TRAIN STATION - CHAMPARAN - EXTERIOR - NIGHT 
The camera is low, shooting along the track toward the light of an approaching train. From its distant glow we can see that people line the platform of the small station, waiting, but we cannot tell how thick the crowd may be. 
The station house. An open staff car pulls up through the press of the crowd. An English captain leaps out and pushes aggressively through the mass of bodies toward the platform. Again the darkness of the ill-lit station and the angle of the camera limit our vision. 
ENGLISH CAPTAIN Clear the way there! Get out of the way! 
A detail of British troops, already on the station, moves in his wake, just as aggressive toward the crowd as he is. 
SERGEANT PUTNAM Sir! Up here! 
The sergeant is on the low sloping roof of the station. The captain turns briskly to two of his detail. 
ENGLISH CAPTAIN Give me a leg up, will you! 
The two men join hands and the captain is hoisted up with an assist from Sergeant Putnam. We hear the train stop in the background. 
Sir George looks from him to Sir Edward. A beat. 
SIR GEORGE (wearily) That would satisfy him?... 
SIR EDWARD (a nod; then pointedly) And His Majesty's Government. It only needs your signature for the landlords. 
Sir George looks at the document on the secretary's desk. A moment. The secretary turns it slowly so it is facing him. Sir George looks at it like a snake. The secretary picks up a pen and offers it. A second, then Sir George takes the pen and signs angrily. 
SIR GEORGE It will be worth it to see the back of him. (A flourish at the end of his signature, then he stands.) We're too damn liberal. 
Sir Edward is at the liquor cabinet. 
SIR EDWARD Perhaps. But at least all this has made the Government see some sense about what men like Mr. Gandhi should be allowed, and what they should be denied. 
He turns, offering Sir George a whiskey in a finely cut glass of crystal. 
SIR EDWARD (firmly) Things are going to change. 
JINNAH'S RESIDENCE - BOMBAY - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Jinnah moves from under the portico. His shining, expensive car is coming in the drive and stops by him. He opens the back door, but only the chauffeur is in the car. 
JINNAH (in annoyance) Where is Mr. Gandhi? 
CHAUFFEUR (distastefully) He said he preferred to walk, sir. I followed him most of the way. He's just turned the corner. 
Jinnah closes the door and looks across at the entrance in exasperation. 
JINNAH The Prophet give me patience. 
CHAUFFEUR He came Third Class. 
It's a disdainful comment and he drives the car off toward the garage. 
Gandhi comes around the corner of the wall into the entrance. He is carrying a bedroll and a bamboo walking stick. Herman Kallenbach is with him, dressed informally, also carrying a bedroll. Jinnah makes a "sophisticated" salaam. 
JINNAH (with effort) My house is honored. 
Gandhi grins, dismissing the formality. 
GANDHI (he makes the pranam) The honor is ours. May I introduce Mr. Kallenbach. He's an old friend (anticipating Jinnah's objection) and his interest is in flowers. I presumed to tell him he could wander your gardens while we talked. 
JINNAH (the suave, but slightly ironic host) I'll send my gardener. I'm sure you'll have much to discuss. 
JINNAH'S DRAWING ROOM - INTERIOR - DAY 
It is spacious, "English." At the door, Jinnah introduces Gandhi to the room. 
JINNAH Gentlemen -- the hero of Champaran. 
Again Gandhi grins at the extravagance. 
GANDHI Only the stubborn man of Champaran. 
A polite little laugh; Jinnah introduces him. 
JINNAH Mr. Patel you know. (Patel bows.) Mr. Maulana Azad -- a fellow Muslim... recently released from prison. 
Gandhi makes the pranam, studying him with interest after that comment. Azad gives a gentle salaam. 
JINNAH Mr. Kripalani. (A bow -- we have seen him at the Congress Conference.) And of course you know Mr. Nehru. 
Gandhi turns. 
Featuring Nehru. He stands, awaiting Gandhi's attention. All the others have been dressed in European clothes. The handsome Europeanized Nehru now wears an Indian tunic -- much like the one that Gandhi once wore. 
For a moment Gandhi studies the costume, then a broad smile. 
GANDHI (a play on Jinnah's introduction) I am beginning to know Mr. Nehru. 
PATEL (to business: Gandhi has been admitted to the power circle, he is not the power) Well, I've called you here because I've had a chance to see the new legislation. It's exactly what was rumored. Arrest without warrant. Automatic imprisonment for possession of materials considered seditious... 
He looks at Gandhi. 
PATEL Your writings are specifically listed. 
Gandhi nods at the "compliment," but they are all angered by the severity of it. 
KRIPALANI So much for helping them in the Great War... 
JINNAH (fire) There is only one answer to that. Direct action -- on a scale they can never handle! 
Again the temper of it produces a little silence. Then 
NEHRU I don't think so. 
He moves to a servant who stands, holding a large tray with a silver service of tea. Of them all, Nehru's manner is the most naturally patrician and Jinnah watches him with a somewhat envious awareness of it. 
NEHRU Terrorism would only justify their repression. And what kinds of leaders would it throw up? Are they likely to be the men we would want at the head of our country? 
His stand has produced a little shock of surprise. Holding his tea, he turns to Gandhi with a little smile. 
NEHRU I've been catching up on my reading. 
He means Gandhi's of course. Jinnah looks at the two of them. Gandhi has removed his sandals and is sitting cross-legged on a fine upholstered chair. Jinnah's eyes rake him with anger and distaste. 
JINNAH (coldly) I too have read Mr. Gandhi's writings, but I'd rather be ruled by an Indian terrorist than an English one. And I don't want to submit to that kind of law. 
PATEL (to Nehru -- diplomatically -- but with a trace of condescension) I must say, Panditji, it seems to me it's gone beyond remedies like passive resistance. 
GANDHI (in the silence) If I may -- I, for one, have never advocated passive anything. 
They all look at him with some surprise. As he speaks, he rises and walks to the servant. 
GANDHI I am with Mr. Jinnah. We must never submit to such laws -- ever. And I think our resistance must be active and provocative. 
They all stare at him, startled by his words and the fervor with which he speaks to them. 
GANDHI I want to embarrass all those who wish to treat us as slaves. All of them. 
He holds their gaze, then turns to the immobile servant and with a little smile, takes the tray from him and places it on the table next to him. It makes them all aware that the servant, standing there like an insensate ornament, has been treated like a "thing," a slave. As it sinks in, Gandhi pours some tea then looks up at them with a pleading warmth -- first to Jinnah. 
GANDHI Forgive my stupid illustration. But I want to change their minds -- not kill them for weaknesses we all possess. 
It impresses each one of them. But for all his impact, they still take the measure of him with caution. 
AZAD And what "resistance" would you offer? 
DYER Port arms, Sergeant Major. 
The sergeant major issues the command. The troops port arms. 
DYER Load. 
Again, the sergeant major barks the command, the bolts slam back and forth, the magazines clatter. 
Featuring the platform and the front of the crowd. They have all turned now to watch, frozen in incredulity and fascination. The sound of the sergeant major's orders and the sinister rattle of breeches and bolts drifting to them. 
SPEAKER (almost to himself as he too is riveted) ...Our pain will be our victory. 
Their point of view. The distant figures facing them. 
Resume the crowd. Numbly they begin to back away, pressing against the speaker's stand, themselves. A man picks up a child. 
Their point of view. The small, distant figures of the sepoys again. A word of command. One platoon kneels and takes aim. Another command. The second platoon, standing behind the first, takes aim. 
Featuring Dyer. His ADC approaches. The British police officer stands off to one side. 
ADC Do we issue a warning, sir? 
DYER (stiffly) They've had their warning -- no meetings. 
It is final. 
Resume the crowd. A ripple of panic now, everyone pressing back, but still they cannot credit what they see. Only one or two have the presence of mind to push clear and seek shelter. It is too late. 
Close shot Dyer, still calm. 
DYER Sergeant Major -- 
SERGEANT MAJOR Take aim! 
Long shot over the sepoys and their sights, the wavering crowd distant. 
DYER Fire! 
Flash shot along the line of sepoys; the rifles jerk and bang. The crowd, running, screaming. 
SERGEANT MAJOR Reload! 
A dreadful press of panic-stricken people flying toward the walls. And again the crash of rifles. Some fall. Others run off-screen in an aimless, irresistible wave. 
Dyer is walking behind his men, telling them, with a view to maximum accuracy, what he has told them on the firing range (it makes him a little irritable to have to repeat it). 
DYER Take your time. Take your time. 
He looks off at the crowd. His eyes narrow. 
A group of men are hurling themselves at a breach in the top of the wall, hanging there, scrabbling for a purchase, some disappearing, a few heroic individuals astride the wall reaching down to assist their women and children in the swirling crowd below. 
DYER Corporal! 
CORPORAL Sir! 
DYER Over there. 
He nods. The corporal looks. 
CORPORAL Sir. 
He directs the attention of his neighbors in the firing line toward the new target; they shift their aim. 
A man reaching for a child -- who is also propelled upward by its mother from below -- is hit, falls, so that he and the child crash into the crowd below. 
Sepoys firing ad lib. Dyer watching the effect, careful and conscientious. 
Swift tracking a man running through the staggering crowd, over the litter of bodies, his mouth open, his eyes wild. He arrives at a well, throws down the rope and slides down it. Others seize the idea and in panic throw themselves into the well, dropping out of sight. 
Featuring Dyer. Meticulously, he taps a corporal on the shoulder with his swagger stick and indicates the well. The corporal signals his line of men. 
At the well. The gathering crowd -- men, women -- and laced with rifle fire. 
From behind the sepoys we see the whole Bagh, littered with dead and dying, a thick ruck around the well, the walls hanging with wounded and dying, the firing continuing, loud, loud, louder... until -- 
CUT TO: 
THE ARMORY HALL - THE FORT OF LAHORE - INTERIOR - DAY 
Silence. The camera is close as it crosses a table with legal documents. Gradually we hear a muffled cough, whispers, shuffled papers, and it at last comes to a large close shot of General Dyer. 
Another angle. A Commission of Inquiry sits in the large Armory Hall of the Old Fort. Dyer faces a panel of Commissioners: Lord Hunter, presiding, Mr. Justice Rankin, General Barrow, a British civil servant, and an Indian barrister. 
The Commission functions like a public parliamentary committee -- little ceremony, no judicial robes, a small group of public and press, who sit on wooden chairs behind a barrier that isolates the Commission's business. 
Much of that public is English -- fellow officers and civilians. 
A Government Advocate (English) turns to face Dyer. 
ADVOCATE General Dyer, is it correct that you ordered your troops to fire at the thickest part of the crowd? 
Dyer glances woodenly at the panel -- a man in some shock at the consequences of what he assumed was an act worthy of praise. 
DYER (righteously) That is so. 
The Advocate looks at him with a degree of disbelief -- more at his attitude than his statement. 
ADVOCATE One thousand five hundred and sixteen casualties with one thousand six hundred and fifty bullets. 
A slight reaction from the public section. Dyer's jaw tightens. 
DYER My intention was to inflict a lesson that would have an impact throughout all India. 
He stares at the panel like a reasonable man making a reasonable point. The evasiveness, the only half-buried embarrassment of their response only deepens his own withdrawal into himself. 
INDIAN BARRISTER General, had you been able to take in the armored car, would you have opened fire with the machine gun? 
Dyer thinks about it. Then unashamedly -- 
DYER I think, probably -- yes. 
A muted reaction from the public section. The Indian barrister stares at him a moment, then simply lowers his eyes to his notes. 
HUNTER General, did you realize there were children -- and women -- in the crowd? 
DYER (a beat) I did. 
GANDHI There must be Hindu-Muslim unity -- always. (A second finger.) Secondly, no Indian must be treated as the English treat us so we must remove untouchability from our lives, and from our hearts. 
Neither of these goals is easy, and the audience reaction shows it. Now Gandhi raises a third finger. 
GANDHI Third -- we must defy the British. 
And the crowd breaks into stamping and applause. Gandhi lets it run for a time, then stills it with the one small gesture as before. 
GANDHI Not with violence that will inflame their will, but with firmness that will open their eyes. 
This has sobered the audience somewhat. Now he looks out across them as though seeking something. Then 
GANDHI English factories make the cloth -- that makes our poverty. (A reaction.) All those who wish to make the English see, bring me the cloth from Manchester and Leeds that you wear tonight, and we will light a fire that will be seen in Delhi -- and London! 
There is an excited stir; he silences it. 
GANDHI And if, like me, you are left with only one piece of homespun -- wear it with dignity! 
Close shot -- the ground. As suitcoats, shirts, vests, trousers, are flung into a pile. 
Featuring the two British soldiers -- later -- on the edge of the crowd, staring off, their faces now brightly lit by darting flames. 
Their point of view. A huge triangular pile burns before the platform, an excited half-naked crowd swirling in the shadows around it. Resume the two British soldiers. They look at each other with a kind of fear a rampant crowd can excite in those who must hold it... 
ASHRAM STATION - EXTERIOR - DAY 
The small train station near the ashram. Kallenbach stands by a new (early 1920s) Ford touring car, watching as a train pulls into the station. 
As people start to jump off the train he moves forward. 
Featuring Patel, getting out of a compartment marked "Second Class." He lugs a bedroll and a bag. Despite the Indian tunic he now wears he cannot help but look and act like the incisive, patrician lawyer he is under the skin. As he moves through the crowded platform. 
PATEL Excuse me -- just let me get out of your way, please. (Someone reaches for his bedroll and bag.) No, thank you, I'll manage. 
He looks up; it is Kallenbach who is the insistent "helper." 
PATEL (joyous -- it's been a long time) Ah, Herman! (Of the bags) No, no -- don't destroy my good intentions. I'm feeling guilty about traveling Second Class. 
Kallenbach is smiling too. He reaches for the bags again. 
KALLENBACH I do it as a friend -- and admirer -- not a servant. 
PATEL Ah, in that case! 
And grandly, he relinquishes the bags and looks back. 
PATEL Maulana is made of sterner stuff. Our trains met in Bombay, but he's back there in that lot somewhere. 
Their point of view. In the chaos of the Third Class we see Maulana Azad coming out of a section of the coach. He is carrying a baby wrapped in rags. The child's mother with two little ones hanging on her has followed him out. 
PATEL'S VOICE-OVER There he is -- out Gandhi-ing Gandhi. 
Azad hands the woman the baby and she obviously thanks him. He makes a little salaam to her and moves through the confusion of the platform toward the camera. 
Resume Patel and Kallenbach. 
PATEL (shaking his head at it all) When I think what our "beloved Mahatma" asks, I don't know how he ever got such a hold over us. Is he back? 
KALLENBACH Yes. Now that things are moving he's going to write and only take part when it's necessary. 
Azad approaches them. 
AZAD (to Patel) It was a Hindu child and it tried to wet on me. 
He and Kallenbach clasp with their free hands, both grinning. 
PATEL Of course. A Muslim beef eater -- I'm only surprised he missed. 
AZAD He was a she. 
PATEL Ah, that explains it. (He grins.) Well, do I carry your luggage as penance or -- 
KALLENBACH There's another passenger -- a Miss Slade. (He turns automatically, as Patel and Azad do, toward the First Class section.) She's the daughter of an English admiral. (Patel and Azad look back at him in quick surprise. Kallenbach smiles.) She's been corresponding with him for a year. 
And the camera pans with their glances at they look back with real interest toward the First Class coach. 
Porters are unloading the baggage of two or three passengers here and helping some others (English and Indian) to board. 
In the foreground we see a tall Indian woman in a red sari. Farther along there is a large stack of luggage being added to by a porter. An English woman is hovering about it. She is well dressed, but rather dreary and unprepossessing, and the camera zooms in toward her. 
PATEL And what does the daughter of an English admiral propose to do in an ashram -- sink us? 
AZAD (quietly -- his manner) From the looks of the luggage, yes. 
Patel grins. Like most witty men, he loves wit in others. 
KALLENBACH She wants to make her home with us -- and Gandhiji has agreed. 
Patel groans. They turn back to the train and just as they do, the tall Indian woman in the red sari tips a porter, taking one small bag from him and turns: Mirabehn (Madeleine Slade) is tall, quite pretty and extremely English despite the sari. The minute she turns, she stops on seeing the now startled Kallenbach. 
MIRABEHN You'd be Mr. Kallenbach. 
Kallenbach recovers sufficiently to -- 
KALLENBACH ...And you would be Miss Slade. 
MIRABEHN (proudly) I prefer the name Gandhiji has given me -- Mirabehn. 
The word means "daughter." Patel and Azad stare at each other in something like bafflement. 
THE ROAD TO THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY 
An ox labors along in harness. We follow him for a moment, then move along the traces of the harness to the Ford touring car that it is pulling. In the car Kallenbach and Mirabehn sit in the front seat, Patel and Azad in the back. 
Closer. 
KALLENBACH (of the car) It was a gift and it only worked a few weeks, but when Gandhi came home he struck on this idea. He calls it his ox-Ford. Comfortable -- and yet more our pace. 
He does what little steering is necessary and Mirabehn smiles at it all, finding everything delightful. She peers ahead in the direction of the distant ashram. 
MIRABEHN Might Mr. Nehru be there too? 
PATEL (glibly) The irresponsible young Nehru is in prison -- again. Though there is a rumor that under pressure from your country, they will let him out -- again. 
Mirabehn has turned to look at him. She has the same sophomoric eagerness and intensity as the young Gandhi. 
MIRABEHN You can't know how closely we follow your struggle -- (to Patel personally) how many in England admired what you did in Bardoli. It must have taken enormous courage. 
BA I'll teach you all our foolishness, and you must teach me yours. 
Mirabehn looks at her, accepting the warmth behind the teasing. It is the beginning of an enduring friendship. 
CHAURI CHAURA - EXTERIOR - NIGHT 
A small town. Featuring the faces of six Indian police constables as a torch light parade passes them. There are enough of them in their group to be watching the marchers with a challenging disdain. The marchers are men in loin- clothes and tunics; they brandish torn and ripped English cloth and shout in unison. 
MARCHERS Home Rule! Long live Gandhi! Buy Indian! Long live Gandhi! 
We have cut to the parade -- and it is the tail end, going around a corner ahead. Some of the marchers wave their cloth tauntingly at the police. One policeman suddenly steps out and grabs at a piece of cloth waved at him. He pulls it viciously from the marcher. 
POLICEMAN I'll stuff your damn mouth with it! 
He chases the marcher and boots him with his foot. Another marcher runs at the policeman, swinging at him with his piece of cloth. 
SECOND MARCHER Leave him alone -- he wasn't harming you! 
Another angle -- sudden. He is whacked across the face with a billy club and falls, clutching his face and spouting blood from his nose. 
Another angle. The police are now all attacking, swinging clubs and kicking at the tail-enders of the march. And the tail-enders begin to scream 
TAIL-ENDERS Help! Help us! as they try to scramble away from the attack. Out of shot we can still hear the disappearing chant: "Home Rule! Long live Gandhi!" 
CONNECTING STREET - EXTERIOR - NIGHT 
The parade is on this street. A tail-ender, blood streaming down his face, runs around the corner. lose shot -- the tail- ender. As he stops 
TAIL-ENDER (screaming) Help! Help us! 
Another angle. Some of the marchers turn at the shout. 
RESUME THE POLICE - THE FIRST STREET 
A few of the tail-enders watching, some running clear of the police, some being beaten. 
Two police have a man on the ground. One policeman looks up. 
POLICEMAN Hey -- 
Their point of view. The corner where the parade has disappeared. It is now packed with more marchers, more flooding in from behind. 
We see the whole street, the marchers massed near the corner, spread out, staring at the police, who are now frozen in their mayhem, staring off at the marchers. 
For a second, utter silence. 
And then the police begin to back away from their victims. The marchers start to move forward. The police draw their guns, and the marchers suddenly run at them, a guttural roar, as though they were one single wild beast. 
Featuring the police. They start to run, some turning to fire at the pursuing crowd, then running on. 
THE POLICE STATION - EXTERIOR - NIGHT 
A small building for this small town. A policeman on duty holds the door and the fleeing police, first one, then two more, then the last three, run into the building. 
The crowd surges around it, smashing windows, hurling stones. 
Close shot. English cloth shirts pushed together and ignited. 
Second close shot. Trousers, already aflame, being hurled through a broken window. All around, the noise of the angry, surging crowd, stones raining on the building. Shouts: "Out -- Out!" 
Later. A corner of the building engulfed in flames. The camera pulls back and we see the whole building swept with fire. The heat of it keeps the crowd back but they are still shouting "Out -- Out! -- Out" -- and a sudden cheer. 
At the door of the flaming building. One policeman appears, his face blackened with soot, his hands up over his head. Another appears in the smoke behind him, and they start to come out -- not only the original six but the five or six others who were in the building -- rushing suddenly from the heat of the fire. 
Close shot -- the crowd. We are close on the body of the first policeman as he runs into the crowd and on the instant we see a sword slash at his arm. 
Another angle. The crowd massed around the fallen figure, a flash of the sword going up over the heads -- a breathless pause -- and it comes down again... savagely. 
Later. The flames of the crumbled building. The crowd has gone and we only hear the roar of the flames. The camera pans across the flames, and we see a skull, charred flesh still clinging to it, the eyes black holes, the teeth bare as it burns in the fire. 
JINNAH'S DRAWING ROOM - INTERIOR - DAY 
Close shot -- Gandhi. His face drawn, stunned, as he stares emptily at the floor. He is sitting on the carpet in the center of the room. A moment of silence and then we begin to hear the tick of a clock, the sounds of others moving in the room, and finally 
PATEL'S VOICE That's one bit of news they haven't censored. 
Another angle. Patel leans with one arm on a table, his mood as devastated as Gandhi's; he is looking at an Indian paper on the table by his hand. A moment then 
JINNAH'S VOICE Oh, it's all over the world... (ironically) India's "non-violence." 
He has been standing, looking out of a window. He turns, and tosses a newspaper on a desk. It is a New York Times and we just glimpse the picture of the severed head lying in the smoldering ashes. 
And now we see Nehru and Azad in the background too. And Desai. Jinnah as usual in a finely cut European suit, the others are dressed in tunics of homespun as they will be to the end. 
NEHRU (bleakly) What can we do? 
GANDHI (sepulchrally) We must end the campaign. 
They turn to him -- a sense of surprise, but they don't really believe he means the statement. 
JINNAH After what they did at the massacre -- it's only an eye for an eye. 
GANDHI (he hasn't moved; the same tone) An eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind. (Now he looks up at them.) We must stop. 
PATEL (a baffled smile) Gandhiji -- do you know the sacrifices people have made? 
He looks at him. Gandhi doesn't move. Patel looks up hopelessly at Jinnah. Azad keeps his eyes fixed on Gandhi, sensing, fearing what is going to happen. 
JINNAH We would never get the same commitment again -- ever. 
He looks at Gandhi with a mounting sense of annoyance. 
Gandhi is listening, but still withdrawn into himself. 
GANDHI If we obtain our freedom by murder and bloodshed I want no part of it. 
NEHRU (pleading) It was one incident. 
GANDHI (quietly) Tell that to the families of the policemen who died. 
Jinnah turns away in anger. Patel sighs. Nehru feels helpless but he continues to try. 
NEHRU Bapu -- the whole nation is marching. They wouldn't stop, even if we asked them to. 
Gandhi stares into nothing -- mulling that. Finally 
GANDHI I will ask. And I will fast as penance for my part in arousing such emotions -- and I will not stop until they stop. 
It stops Nehru. He looks at Gandhi and sighs in unmastered frustration, but he moves to Gandhi's side. Gandhi turns to Mirabehn. 
GANDHI You must help Herman -- and Ba. (He releases her, and says more loudly to the others) I have been on many trips -- it is just another trip. 
He smiles at them, then slips his free hand on Nehru's shoulder and he turns to the superintendent. 
GANDHI I am at your command. 
Featuring Gandhi, Ba and Nehru, as they walk to the car behind the somewhat surprised superintendent. 
GANDHI (to Nehru) If there is one protest -- one riot -- a disgrace of any kind, I will fast again. 
He looks at Nehru firmly. Nehru knows him well enough now not to argue -- even at this, though his face shows the struggle. 
GANDHI (and now he smiles -- Gandhi to Nehru, special) I know India is not ready for my kind of independence. If I am sent to jail, perhaps that is the best protest our country can make at this time. And if it helps India, I have never refused to take His Majesty's hospitality. 
He laughs and Nehru struggles to join in the joke. 
THE CIRCUIT COURT - AHMEDABAD - INTERIOR - DAY 
A quiet hum in a packed courtroom. Armed sepoys line the wall. 
Featuring Judge Broomfield and the clerk. The Judge is flipping through documents on the case, a troubled frown on his face. At last, he shuts the folder and nods to the clerk. The clerk turns and says in a moderately loud voice -- 
CLERK Call the prisoner to the bar. 
The sergeant-at-arms turns and moves to the door at the side of the bench. The courtroom immediately falls silent. The sergeant-at-arms opens the door -- a moment -- and Gandhi enters slowly. He has recovered a bit more, but he still moves slowly. 
Featuring Judge Broomfield. As Gandhi enters, he lowers his glasses, places them on his desk, and rises, facing Gandhi. 
Featuring two English court reporters. One nudges the other in astonishment, signaling off toward the judge. 
Their point of view. The clerk, confused as well as astonished, see the judge standing, facing Gandhi in respect, and dutifully, he too stands. 
Resume the reporters. A disbelieving exchange of glances, the sound of others standing around them. They glance back. 
Full shot -- the courtroom. The whole court rises, the astounded reporters the last of all. 
Featuring Gandhi. He takes the prisoner's stand. He looks around, a little surprised, a little affected by the demonstration. He looks up at the judge. For a minute their eyes meet, the judge makes a little bow to Gandhi. Gandhi reciprocates... and the judge sits down. 
Featuring the reporters shrugging incredulously to each other, as they sit once more. 
Later. The Advocate General is speaking from a folded journal. 
ADVOCATE GENERAL ..."Non-co-operation has one aim: the overthrow of the Government. Sedition must become our creed. We must give no quarter, nor can we expect any." (He looks up at Gandhi.) Signed M. K. Gandhi, in your journal Young India, dated twenty-second March of this year. Do you deny writing it? 
GANDHI Not at all. (To the judge) And I will save the Court's time, M'Lord, by stating under oath that to this day I believe non-co-operation with evil is a duty. And that British rule of India is evil. 
There is a little shock of reaction around the courtroom. The Advocate General smiles with a brittle disdain, then he turns to the judge. 
ADVOCATE GENERAL The Prosecution rests, M'Lord. 
The judge nods. He turns, glancing at the empty table for defense counsel, and then to Gandhi. 
JUDGE BROOMFIELD I take it you will conduct your own defense, Mr. Gandhi. 
GANDHI I have no defense, My Lord. I am guilty as charged. (Then testingly) And if you truly believe in the system of law you administer in my country, you must inflict on me the severest penalty possible. 
It is almost a cruel challenge to the obviously humane Broomfield. 
The reporters scribble, watching the Judge even as they write, because the mere doubt in the Judge's face reflects on the whole position of the British to India. 
Featuring Judge Broomfield. He lowers his glasses soberly, staring at them for a moment. 
JUDGE BROOMFIELD It is impossible for me to ignore that you are in a different category from any person I have ever tried, or am likely to try. 
He looks up at Gandhi and his own respect for him is almost poignantly manifest. 
JUDGE BROOMFIELD (a long beat) It is nevertheless my duty to sentence you -- to six years' imprisonment. 
A stunned intake of breath from the whole courtroom, then in absolute silence the clerk scribbles the sentence in his notebook. A pause. The Judge lowers his eyes. 
JUDGE BROOMFIELD (a personal statement, not a real hope) If however His Majesty's Government could -- at some later date -- see fit to reduce that term, no one would be better pleased than I. 
He folds, and refolds his glasses and then without looking at anyone he rises. The court rises and he walks stiffly to his chambers. 
Featuring Gandhi. He stands, staring at Broomfield, and now it is his face that shows the respect. 
INDIAN ROAD - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Long shot. From far above the hills we see a car traveling along the road. Its style tells us some years have passed. 
Featuring Walker -- close. The reporter from the New York Times, whom we first saw as a younger man in South Africa. He is in an open car, turning back to look at something, his face intrigued by what he sees. 
COLLINS' VOICE-OVER (English accent) Yes, I'm sure that's exactly what they hoped. Put him in prison a few years and with luck he'd be forgotten. And maybe they'd even subdue him... 
We see from Walker's point of view an Indian woman walking along the road, leading a tall camel that carries sacks of produce. Two young girls in ragged saris walk with her, and a boy of eight leads a smaller camel behind them. They are staring off at the car. 
Resume Walker. He swings back around, fascinated with what he is seeing of India. The car is an early 1930s Morris Minor. 
COLLINS Well, he certainly wasn't forgotten! And as soon as he got out he was back tramping the country, preaching non-violence and demanding a free India. Everybody knows another showdown's coming -- but when, and over what -- 
He shrugs, "Nobody knows"... 
WALKER Well, I read you account of that crowd in Calcutta and that he was twisting the Lion's tail again... 
Collins has suddenly slowed the car, then swerves around a pair of elephants hauling logs. 
WALKER (falteringly) ...and I knew something had to give. And I was determined to be here when it did. 
COLLINS How does a reporter in Central America learn that Gandhi was born in Porbandar anyway? 
WALKER Oh, I've been a Gandhi buff for a long time. 
Collins glances at him in surprise as he steers the car around another procession of camels heading toward the port. 
COLLINS He certainly makes good copy. (A laugh.) The other day Winston Churchill called him "that half-naked Indian fakir." 
Walker smiles too, but it soon passes. 
WALKER I met him once. 
Collins looks at him in real surprise. 
COLLINS You mean Gandhi? 
WALKER (nods) Back in South Africa... (reflectively) long time ago. 
Gulls fly over them, squawking in the growing light. Gandhi pauses, looking up at the gulls, then back down to the sea. 
GANDHI I'm going back to the ashram (then firmly) and then I'm going to prove to the new Viceroy that the King's writ no longer runs in India! 
He turns from the sea to Walker, his eyes confident, elated, then he continues on down the promontory. Still baffled, Walker glances at the sea, at him, then hurries after. 
Full shot. The waves running against the shore... 
LORD IRWIN'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - DAY 
Close shot -- the Viceroy, a "new one," Lord Irwin. 
IRWIN Salt? 
Another angle. He is looking in astonishment at his principal secretary. His ADC, a general, a brigadier, a senior police officer are with him. Like him they hold the same offices, but are a new team. 
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY Yes, sir. He is going to march to the sea and make salt. 
Irwin looks at him, still trying to penetrate the significance of the act. The senior police officer helps. 
SENIOR POLICE OFFICER There is a Royal Monopoly on the manufacture of salt, sir. It's illegal to make it or sell it without a Government license. 
Irwin has listened; it's beginning to make a little sense. 
IRWIN All right -- he's breaking the law. What will he be depriving us of, two rupees of salt tax? 
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY It's not a serious attack on the revenue, sir. Its primary importance is symbolic. 
IRWIN Don't patronize me, Charles. 
The principal secretary blanches. 
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY No, sir. I -- in this climate, sir, nothing lives without water -- or salt. Our absolute control of it is a control on the pulse of India. 
Irwin looks at his ADC, then paces a bit, pondering it. 
IRWIN And that's the basis of this "Declaration of Independence"? 
SENIOR POLICE OFFICER Yes, sir. The day he sets off everyone is supposed to raise the flag of "Free India." Then he walks some two hundred and forty miles to the sea and makes salt. 
A moment as Irwin considers it, then it is the general who speaks. 
GENERAL I say ignore it. Let them raise their damn flags, let him make his salt. It's only symbolic if we choose to make it so. 
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (pointedly) He's going to arrive at the sea on the anniversary of the massacre at Amritsar. 
Irwin has turned to him. And this makes up his mind. 
IRWIN General Edgar is right -- ignore it. Mr. Gandhi will find it's going to take a great deal more than a pinch of salt to bring down the British Empire. 
He is concerned enough to be angry, but certain enough to be dogmatic. 
THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAWN 
It is very early, the light just beginning to break, and we are looking out across the river toward the distant town, and against the pink glow of the sky we can see people in groups wading across the river toward the ashram. And suddenly a mass of people, hidden by the embankment, appear at the top of the steps coming up from the river, and the camera lifts slightly with their movement and we see that they are but the forerunners of a long tendril of humanity that stretches across the river, all the way back to the distant outskirts of the city. 
And around the ashram many fires are burning, people are cooking breakfast, some are packing knapsacks for the journey, others are strewing the path from the ashram with leaves. 
GANDHI'S BUNGALOW - INTERIOR - DAWN 
Quiet, just the buzz of activity from outside the building. Gandhi lies on a mat and Ba and Mirabehn are massaging him with oil as he checks page proofs, an oil lamp by his side. Nehru sits cross-legged next to him, taking the proofs as Gandhi finishes them. Maulana Azad sits to one side. Behind them Desai is making notes on Gandhi's instructions. 
GANDHI (to Nehru) ...the real test will come if I am arrested. If there is violence we lose all our moral advantage. This time it mustn't happen. 
He looks at Nehru and Azad solemnly to emphasize the point. Nehru nods; a little smile. 
NEHRU We're not beginners anymore. We've been trained by a strict sergeant major. 
He means Gandhi of course, and Gandhi accepts the reference, but it is the acceptance of the strict sergeant major: "Don't fail me." Then he looks to Azad. 
GANDHI If I'm taken, Maulana is to lead the march. If he is arrested, Patel, then Kripalani, then yourself. 
Nehru nods. Ba moves to massage the top of Gandhi's head. 
BA You should be relaxing. 
Gandhi grins, looking at Mirabehn, who is massaging his legs. 
GANDHI I'm sure I'm fit for at least five hundred miles. 
MIRABEHN You should ride the pony. It is not necessary to walk to prove the point. 
Gandhi looks at Nehru, a benign shrug. 
GANDHI I have two of them bossing me now. 
Nehru smiles. He stands, having taken the last proof sheet. Azad rises with him. 
NEHRU We must get these to the printer. (He looks down at Gandhi.) I know it will succeed. Even my mother is prepared to march. 
Gandhi is pleasurably impressed with that. 
GANDHI And Jinnah? 
NEHRU (a beat) He's waiting. He's not prepared to accept it will mean as much as you think. 
GANDHI (smiles confidently) Wait and see... wait and see... 
He leans back and closes his eyes. Ba rubs his head soothingly. Nehru bends and squeezes his arm in farewell. Gandhi nods, not opening his eyes. Nehru and Azad smile at Ba and leave. 
THE ASHRAM - LATER - EXTERIOR - DAY 
The sun higher, but still early light. A green, white and saffron flag (the colors of India) is pulled up an uneven pole. The sound of gentle clapping. 
Gandhi is off to one side, just in front of the veranda of his bungalow, not paying attention to the ceremony. Ba and Mirabehn watch from the veranda as Pyarelal (Desai's new assistant), with a knapsack over his own shoulders, hands Gandhi his. As Gandhi slips it on, the ashramite boy whom we saw with the goat hands him a long staff. And Gandhi moves around the edge of the bungalow, heading toward the entrance of the ashram. 
A long line of ashramites and marchers stretches from opposite the flagpole to the entrance of the ashram. As Gandhi walks briskly along it, they turn, ready to follow him. 
When he nears the entrance Gandhi sees Walker standing in front of a collection of newsmen, cameramen, a newsreel crew. He begins to smile, Walker returns it. Gandhi pauses by him. 
GANDHI (of the press) You've done me a great service. 
WALKER (a grin, then a play on Gandhi's words to him) It would have been uncivil of me to have let you make such a long trip for nothing. 
Gandhi smiles. He turns back toward his bungalow. Ba and Mirabehn stand there watching, Desai with them. Gandhi holds their gaze a second, then turns and starts forward. Pyarelal takes up a position next to him, the marchers follow. 
Featuring Walker. He steps back, letting Gandhi proceed into the range of the cameras on his own. The crowd around the entrance throws flowers in Gandhi's path, some calling out, "Long live Mahatma Gandhi!" 
For the first time he is truly angry. 
WALL BY A BEACH - EXTERIOR - DAY 
A young British subaltern trots up to the wall and looks down. His face falls. 
BRITISH SUBALTERN Oh, my God! 
The beach. Subaltern's point of view. Packed with people making salt, selling salt, buying salt. 
Resume the British subaltern. He looks back. 
His point of view. Behind him there is an open military truck and about twenty sepoys. Formidable for an ordinary crowd, nothing to handle this. The subaltern stiffens bravely and signals the men somewhat unconvincingly from the truck. 
SUBALTERN Right -- jump to it -- clear this beach! 
SMALL WAREHOUSE - INTERIOR - DAY 
Men, women and children are making little paper packets of salt from piles heaped along long tables. A group of policemen barge into the room, knocking tables and salt and paper in every direction with their lathis, seizing some of the volunteers for arrest. 
In the chaos an old man calmly picks up a piece of paper from the floor, a handful of salt, and folds another packet. 
WIDE CITY STREET - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Nehru is on the back of a big open truck that is stationary in the street. The truck is loaded with boxes that contain salt packets and Nehru and eight or nine others are selling them to people who flock about the truck. The sound of horses. Nehru lifts his head. 
Mounted Indian police are coming down either side of the street, a wave of foot police running forward down the center. 
Some of the people run, others deliberately stand fast. 
The mounted police converge on the truck. Nehru is grabbed, and hurled so that he half falls, half leaps to the street. One of the men with him is knocked along the ground by a policeman. He is young and vigorous and he swivels on the ground as though to strike back. Nehru lunges toward him. 
NEHRU No violence, Zia! 
And a lathi is brought smashing across the side of Nehru's head. He is knocked to his knees; blood streams from his head. He feels the side of his head, the blood soaking his hand. He struggles to his feet, facing the policeman who has struck him. 
NEHRU (repeating quietly, as though to Zia) ...no violence. 
It stops the policeman for a second, and a sergeant suddenly intrudes, recognizing Nehru. 
SERGEANT You're Nehru -- 
NEHRU I'm an illegal trader in salt. 
The sergeant sighs grimly. 
LORD IRWIN'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - NIGHT 
The desk lights are on. Irwin, the senior police officer, the principal secretary. Tension, fatigue, frustration as the senior police officer outlines the situation. 
SENIOR POLICE OFFICER ...There's been no time to keep figures, but there must be ninety -- a hundred thousand under arrest. (Grimly, incredibly) And it still goes on. 
IRWIN (impatiently) Who's leading them? 
SENIOR POLICE OFFICER I don't know! Nehru, Patel, almost every Congress Official is in jail... and their wives and their children -- we've even arrested Nehru's mother. 
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (shrewdly) Has there been any violence? 
SENIOR POLICE OFFICER (distracted, offhand) Oh, in Karachi the police fired on a crowd and killed a couple of people and -- (and this hurts) and in Peshawar the Deputy Police Commissioner lost his head and... and opened fire with a machine gun. (He looks up at them quickly, defensively.) But he's facing a disciplinary court! You can't expect things like that not to happen when -- 
IRWIN (dryly) I believe the question was intended to discover if there was any violence of their side. 
The senior police officer looks up, realizing his gaffe and wishes desperately he could relive the last couple of minutes. 
SENIOR POLICE OFFICER Oh, no, sir -- no, I'm afraid not. 
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (again the Machiavellian mind) Perhaps if we arrested Gandhi, it might -- 
He means incite violence. The Viceroy ponders it -- favorably. 
IRWIN (to senior police officer) He's addressed this letter directly to you, has he? 
SENIOR POLICE OFFICER Yes, sir, he has. The usual -- India's salt belongs to India -- but then he says flatly that he personally is going to lead a raid tomorrow on the Dharasana Salt Works. 
IRWIN (calmly) Thank him for his letter, and put him in jail. 
The senior police officer is brought up by the chill directness of it. He looks at Irwin and the principal secretary for a moment in uncertainty. Then 
SENIOR POLICE OFFICER Yes, sir. Yes, sir. It will be my pleasure. 
As he turns to leave Irwin speaks -- almost offhandedly. 
IRWIN And Fields, keep that salt works open. 
The senior police officer stares at him, then 
SENIOR POLICE OFFICER (delighted) Yes, sir! 
DHARASANA SALT WORKS - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Barbed wire stretches on either side of the stockade-like entrance. Above the gate we see the sign DHARASANA SALT WORKS. Before it six British police officers and two Indian police officers command a large troop of Indian policemen. They face their opposition, unmoving, tense. The camera pans from them, across a sloping dip in the ground, to a huge group of volunteers lining up to face the police as tautly as the police face them. 
Walker is off to one side, climbing to stand in the back of Collin's car. He watches, looking tensely from one group to the other, almost terrified by what seems about to happen. 
Collins leans against the back of the car near him, watching with an equally appalled expectancy. There are two other reporters near them. 
From Walker's point of view. We see Mirabehn and some Indian women quietly placing stretchers and tables of bandages near a group of tents where the volunteers have been housed. 
Walker turns back to the two opposing groups at the Salt Works entrance. We hear only a shuffle of feet, the clank of a lathi against a metal police buckle. The air itself seems breathless with tension. 
Featuring Azad. He has approached the chief police officer. He stops before him politely. 
AZAD I would like admission to the Works. 
CHIEF POLICE OFFICER (equally politely) I am sorry, sir. That cannot be allowed. 
Azad looks at him a second, then glances at the troops. He is clearly afraid, but there is an air of tragic inevitability in his face. 
He moves back to address the volunteers. 
AZAD Last night they took Gandhiji from us. They expect us to lose heart or to fight back. We will not lose heart, we will not fight back. In his name we will be beaten. As he has taught us, we will not raise a hand. "Long live Mahatma Gandhi!" 
He turns and starts down the dip toward the gate and the waiting lathis of the police. 
A series of shots, as Azad leads the first row of volunteers down and up the dip. 
We intercut Walker, frozen, watching the inevitable onslaught, the British police commanding officer ready to give the first order. 
JINNAH Precisely. 
Gandhi winds up what he has done, and starts to rise. 
GANDHI They are preparing for war. I will not support it, but I do not intend to take advantage of their danger. 
PATEL (blithely, but to the point) That's when you take advantage. 
Gandhi has moved toward the steps. He stops and looks at Patel. A wry, gentle smile. 
GANDHI No. That is just another way of striking back. We have come a long way together with the British. When they leave we want to see them off as friends. (He starts down the steps and heads for the river.) And now, if you'll excuse me, there is something I must attend to. 
Featuring Nehru. He looks at Jinnah and shrugs. Jinnah takes it less philosophically and his eyes burn with anger as he watches Gandhi head for the young girl with the injured goat. 
NEHRU (resignedly) "Mud packs." 
TRAIN STATION. INTERIOR. DUSK. 
Gandhi is moving with the stream of passengers disembarking from the Third Class section. Ba and Mirabehn are struggling along behind him, Desai and Pyarelal completing the little group. They pass a newspaper stand: "Hitler's Armies Sweep On." As they move out into the flux of the station we see many uniforms, the sense of a nation readying for war. 
A British captain stands before a full platoon of Indian troops. 
As Gandhi approaches, a British Lt. Colonel and his Adjutant (a Captain) move out from one side of the troops. 
BRITISH COLONEL Mr. Gandhi -- sir. 
Gandhi stops, looks up at him, at the troops behind him. 
BRITISH COLONEL I have instructions to inquire as to the subject of your speech tonight. 
Gandhi shakes his head with a weary grin. 
GANDHI The value of goat's milk in daily diet. (Into his eyes) But you can be sure I will also speak against war. 
The British Colonel signals back to the troops. 
BRITISH COLONEL I'm sorry, sir. That can't be allowed. 
As a detail marches up to them, the colonel's adjutant speaks gently to Ba. 
ADJUTANT It's all right, Mrs. Gandhi. I have orders to return with you and your companion to the Mahatma's ashram. 
BA If you take my husband, I intend to speak in his place. 
She stares at the adjutant belligerently. He looks flummoxed. 
Later. Long shot -- high. The colonel and his adjutant striding toward the exit of the station. Following behind them, a detail of six soldiers accompanying Gandhi. The camera tracks across the platform and we see they are being followed by a detail of six soldiers accompanying Ba. And the camera tracks again and we see they are being followed by a detail of six soldiers accompanying Mirabehn! 
WINDING BUMPY ROAD - EXTERIOR - DAY 
A jeep bounces along the road. It is driven by an American lieutenant and his passenger is a woman dressed in an American War Correspondent's uniform (Margaret Bourke-White). As the jeep passes the camera we pan with it and see the walls of a palace ahead. 
BOURKE-WHITE Stop! Wait a minute! 
The jeep slithers to a stop, and Bourke-White grabs a camera that is strapped around her, stands, and takes a picture of the palace. 
AGA KHAN'S PALACE - BOURKE-WHITE'S POINT OF VIEW - EXTERIOR - DAY 
The palace looks evocative -- a lonely, incongruous building. 
WINDING BUMPY ROAD - EXTERIOR - DAY 
LIEUTENANT It was the Aga Khan's palace, but they've turned it into a prison. 
Bourke-White slips back down into her seat; we see the arm band on her jacket: "Press." The lieutenant starts the jeep up and they head toward the gate, where we see a British soldier on guard. 
LIEUTENANT (shouting over the motor) They've got most of the leading Congress politicians in this one. But Nehru and some others are over in Dehra Dun. Your timing's pretty lucky. They had your Mr. Gandhi cut off from the press but last month his personal secretary died and they've let up on the restrictions. 
Bourke-White just absorbs it, staring at the palace, taking in the experience with the appetite of her breed, and her own particular sensitivity. 
GANDHI'S ROOM - AGA KHAN'S PALACE - INTERIOR - DAY 
Gandhi sits by the window that is grilled rather than barred. He is spinning in a shaft of light -- and looking off -- as we hear a camera click and the rustle of movement. His hair, only half-gray in London, is now white. 
GANDHI Yes, I have heard of Life Magazine. (A smile.) I have even heard of Margaret Bourke- White. But I don't know why either should be interested in an old man sitting in prison when the world is blowing itself to pieces. 
Bourke-White -- who has been moving, crouching to shoot him and the light -- sags back against the wall, relaxing at last. She has a smile as penetrating and warming as his. 
BOURKE-WHITE (a beat -- and she smiles) You're the only man I know who makes his own clothes. 
Gandhi grins and glances toward his dhoti. 
GANDHI Ah, but for me that's not much of an accomplishment. 
Meaning he doesn't wear many clothes. Bourke-White bursts into an appreciative radiance -- already she has assessed him, and been won. 
WALL AND YARD - AGA KHAN'S PALACE - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Gandhi walks along, Bourke-White loping along beside him, a little distance away, listening, but searching too for an angle, a moment that is right. 
GANDHI No -- prison is rather agreeable to me, and there is no doubt that after the war, independence will come. My only worry is what shape it will take. Jinnah has -- 
BOURKE-WHITE Stop! 
She has Gandhi in the foreground, a soldier on the wall above and behind him. 
BOURKE-WHITE Now go on -- just as you were. 
Gandhi shrugs but suffers it. We feature him, low, from her point of view, as he walks on, the soldier pacing on the wall in the background. 
BOURKE-WHITE (coaching) "...what shape it will take." Jinnah has -- what? 
GANDHI (at first disconcerted, but then flowing) Jinnah has -- has cooperated with the British. It has given him power and the freedom to speak, and he has filled the Muslims with fears of what will happen to them in a country that is predominantly Hindu. (He stops, lowering his head gravely.) That I find hard to bear -- even in prison. 
She clicks. 
WALLED GARDEN IN THE PALACE - EXTERIOR - DAY 
A spinning wheel works rapidly. The camera lifts. Gandhi is at the wheel and he is smiling off at Bourke-White, who is trying ineptly to imitate him on another spinning wheel. The garden they are in has gone to seed a bit, but with latticed fretwork in the walls dappling sunlight on the grass and shrubs it is still beautiful. 
BOURKE-WHITE (archly, but emphatically of the spinning) I do not see it as the solution of the twentieth century's problems! 
She's grinning at her own frustration and she keeps trying, but there's no doubt she means it. Gandhi's smile broadens. Wryly he lifts his own "product" -- a tiny roll of thread. 
GANDHI I have a friend who keeps telling me how much it costs him to keep me in poverty. 
And they both laugh... a guard on the wall distantly looks at them wonderingly. 
An Indian regimental band strikes up martial music. A detachment of Indian Royal Air Force comes to attention at the shouted command of their NCO. 
Featuring the aircraft doors. An elaborately dressed military aide opens the door and Lord Louis Mountbatten, resplendent in naval uniform, steps out onto the platform. He pauses and renders a salute. 
ON A BANNERED PLATFORM 
Nehru, Lady Mountbatten and dignitaries. English and Indians watch as Mountbatten approaches a group of microphones identified as NBC, CBS, BBC, etc. 
MOUNTBATTEN We have come to crown victory with friendship -- to assist at the birth of an independent India and to welcome her as an equal member in the British Commonwealth of Nations. (A little smile.) I am here to see that I am the last British Viceroy ever to have the honor of such a reception. 
He grins in his youthful, beguiling manner and makes the pranam to the cheering crowd. 
It is cut off by the sound of a door being opened, close. 
THE GREAT PORTICO - VICE-REGAL PALACE - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Jinnah stands by one of the great pillars of the immense portico. It is a break in their Independence Conference, and as he lights a cigarette, a weary Gandhi approaches him with Azad. Jinnah's anger is clearly too deep to be left at the conference table. He slaps his lighter shut and addresses Gandhi in hushed but fiercely felt words. 
JINNAH I don't give a damn for the independence of India! I am concerned about the slavery of Muslims! 
Nehru and Patel are approaching from the conference room, both of them looking worn and angry too. Jinnah raises his voice deliberately so Nehru will hear. 
JINNAH I will not sit by to see the mastery of the British replaced by the mastery of the Hindus! 
GANDHI (patiently, not yet believing it can't be settled) Muslim and Hindu are the right and left eye of India. No one will be slave, no one master. 
Jinnah sneers at the idea, though he cools a little. 
JINNAH The world is not made of Mahatma Gandhis. (He looks at Nehru and Patel.) I am talking about the real world. 
NEHRU The "real India" has Muslims and Hindus in every village and every city! How do you propose to separate them? 
JINNAH Where there is a Muslim majority -- that will be Pakistan. The rest is your India. 
PATEL (a forced patience) Mohammed -- the Muslims are in a majority on two different sides of the country. 
JINNAH (acidly) Let us worry about Pakistan -- you worry about India. 
Gandhi is staring at Jinnah trying to fathom the source of his anger and fear. He turns to see that Mountbatten has been standing in the open door to the conference room, as torn as Gandhi by the conflict, feeling it best controlled in formal discussion. 
MOUNTBATTEN Gentlemen, perhaps we should recommence. 
Gandhi nods, and reluctantly the adversaries move back to the conference room. Gandhi is last through the door. He pauses by Mountbatten, a little sigh -- "How difficult, how difficult" -- then he puts a friendly hand on Mountbatten's shoulder and the two of them enter together. 
GANDHI'S ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Featuring Godse waving a black flag and shouting. 
GODSE (with others) Death to Jinnah! Death to Jinnah! 
We have pulled back and we see a whole gathering of Hindu youths near the entrance to the ashram. Many wave black flags. A couple of trucks that have brought them, and a car, are along the path. Kallenbach is stepping out of an old 1942 open Austin that he has put in a waiting position near the entrance to the path. The chanting shout "Death to Jinnah!" suddenly dies. The youths -- and Kallenbach -- look back toward the ashram. 
Featuring Gandhi's bungalow. Nehru has stepped out onto the porch and he glares at the youths. It is his presence that has silenced them. 
Kallenbach smiles. 
GANDHI'S BUNGALOW - INTERIOR - DAY 
Gandhi is rising from the floor, where his spinning wheel sits. He stops, halfway up, listening, then, a weary sigh. 
GANDHI Thank God, they've stopped. 
Mirabehn is spinning across the room. She lifts her head as a signal to someone out of shot. 
Gandhi's two grand nieces, Manu and Abha, who help Mirabehn now that Ba is gone, rise quickly at Mirabehn's signal, Manu to help with his shawl, Abha to hold his sandals so that he can slip into them. 
GANDHI I'm your grand uncle but I can still walk either of you into the ground and I don't need to be pampered this way! 
It's cross -- he's worried about other things. Mirabehn just smiles at it. Gandhi looks down at Abha, and taps her sharply on the top of the head. 
GANDHI Finish your quota of spinning. 
She nods obediently, the flicker of a smile around her mouth, youthful, irrepressible. The beauty of it almost saddens Gandhi. He taps her again -- gently -- and goes out. 
GANDHI'S ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Kallenbach shoos a chicken from the back seat of the Austin and dusts off the seat. He steps back out. 
Gandhi is approaching with Nehru and Azad, Pyarelal trails close behind. We have seen Azad and Pyarelal come out on the porch behind Nehru. As Gandhi near the car a Hindu youth with a black flag calls to him. 
HINDU YOUTH Bapu -- please. Don't do it! 
They are all awed, timid even in his actual presence, and the mood of their gathering has changed altogether. Gandhi looks at the youth and the line of others. 
GANDHI (impatiently) What do you want me not to do? Not to meet with Mr. Jinnah? (Fiercely) I am a Muslim! (He stares at them, then relents.) And a Hindu, and a Christian and a Jew -- and so are all of you. When you wave those flags and shout you send fear into the hearts of your brothers. 
He sweeps them sternly with his eyes, all his fatigue and strain showing. 
GANDHI This is not the India I want. Stop it. For God's sake, stop it. 
And he lowers his head and moves on to the car, where Kallenbach holds the door for him, Nehru, Azad and Pyarelal following. 
Another angle. As they get into the car, we see the car that sits by the two trucks that have brought the youths. In the back seat we see two men, one of whom is Prakash (The bearded man at Gandhi's assassination). 
JINNAH'S DRAWING ROOM - INTERIOR - NIGHT 
Jinnah is on the small balcony of this elaborate room. He is looking down in a slightly supercilious manner. As usual he is impeccably dressed. 
JINNAH Now, please, if you've finished your prayers, could we begin with business. 
He has been looking at Gandhi, who sits on the floor of the large room some distance from him, just lifting his head from prayers. 
Nehru, Patel and Azad are on the same side of the room as Gandhi. They rise from prayer as Jinnah comes down the steps to them. Gandhi hesitates, then begins. 
GANDHI My dear Jinnah, you and I are brothers born of the same Mother India. If you have fears, I want to put them to rest. (Jinnah listens impatiently, skeptically. Gandhi just glances in Nehru's direction.) I am asking Panditji to stand down. I want you to be the first Prime Minister of India (Jinnah raises an eyebrow of interest.) -- to name your entire cabinet, to make the head of every government department a Muslim. 
And Jinnah has drawn himself up. His vanity is too great not to be touched by that prospect. He measures Gandhi for a moment to see that he is sincere, and when he is satisfied with that, he turns slowly to Nehru, Patel and Azad. 
Nehru glances at Patel. They have all been taken by surprise by the offer -- and do not feel what Gandhi feels. Nehru looks hesitantly at Gandhi. 
NEHRU Bapu, for me, and the rest, (his hand gestures to Patel and Azad) if that is what you want, we will accept it. But out there (he indicates the streets) already there is rioting because Hindus fear you are going to give too much away. 
PATEL If you did this, no one could control it. No one. 
It bears the stamp of undeniable truth. Gandhi's eyes sag with the despair of a man whose last hope, whose faith, has crumbled around him. 
Jinnah smiles cynically, he spreads his hands "See?" 
PATEL Could we cut all news off? I know -- 
NEHRU Bapu -- please. Where are you going. 
GANDHI (sounding like an old man) I don't want to hear more... 
He is moving toward the door. It stops them all. Pyarelal moves tentatively to open the door. 
PATEL (impatiently) We need your help! 
GANDHI There is nothing I can give. 
AZAD Where are you going? 
Gandhi turns, looks at him bleakly. 
GANDHI Calcutta. 
CALCUTTA - EXTERIOR - NIGHT 
We are high. There are fires, the sounds of spasmodic gunfire, of looting, screams, the roar of police vehicles and occasional sirens. The camera zooms in on a poor quarter of artisan dwellings in narrow streets. Outside one of the houses is a car, an army jeep, policemen, a few soldiers and a group of people. It seems a little island of calm in a sea of wild chaos. 
On the roof of the house, a figure moves into the light. 
CLOSER - TAHIB'S ROOF 
The figure is Gandhi. He peers down at the dark, rioting streets. Azad, Tahib, a Muslim whose house this is, Mirabehn and Pyarelal are with him along Abdul Ghaffar Khan. 
A police commissioner moves to Gandhi's side, demanding his attention. 
POLICE COMMISSIONER Sir, please, I don't have the men to protect you -- not in a Muslim house. Not this quarter. 
GANDHI I am staying with the friend of a friend. 
There is a sudden commotion just below them and angry shouts: "Death to Muslims!," "Death to Muslims!" 
Gandhi peers down. 
His point of view. A surging gang of youths, many carrying torches, and far outnumbering the little group of police and soldiers, are shouting up at the roof. We see three or four black flags and stains of blood on many of them. A few hold knives still wet with blood. 
A YOUTH There he is! 
A feral roar goes up at the sight of Gandhi, but he stands unmoving. 
HINDU YOUTH LEADER (his voice emotional, tearful) Why are you staying at the home of a Muslim! They're murderers! They killed my family! 
Featuring Gandhi. It is a comment too grave for glibness, and Gandhi is obviously struck by the pain of it. He pauses for a moment, staring down at the youth: 
GANDHI Because forgiveness is the gift of the brave. 
He makes it mean the youth. For a second it makes an impact, but then the youth shouts his defiance at him and his message. 
YOUTH To hell with you, Gandhi!! 
An angry chorus of acclamation; when it dies 
GANDHI (to the youth) Go -- do as your mother and father would wish you to do. 
It is ambiguous, open-ended, meaning anything your mother and father would wish you to do. Tears flush from the boy's eyes and he stares at Gandhi with a kind of hopeless anguish and rage. But the impact is on the youth alone; around him the others begin to take up the chant "Death to Muslims!," "Death to Muslims!" 
Gandhi turns from the street. He looks at the police commissioner -- at his fatigue, his concern, his manifest respect. Gandhi musters a weary smile. 
GANDHI I have lived a lifetime. If I had shunned death -- or feared it -- I would not be here. Nor would you be concerned for me. (He lets it sink in then he takes the commissioner's arm and moves back toward the center of the roof.) Leave me -- and take your men. (An understanding touch of the arm.) You have more important things to worry about. 
The commissioner looks at him, uncertain, not knowing what to do, as the angry chanting continues above the sound of rioting. 
HOSPITAL - INTERIOR - DAY 
An old, inadequate hospital -- dark cavernous. Margaret Bourke- White is moving among the densely packed litter of wounded women. She is positioning herself to photograph Gandhi, who is speaking to a woman who cradles a small baby. The corridors behind him are even more packed. The few doctors and nurses hardly have room to move. 
Featuring Gandhi. Azad and Mirabehn are behind him as he moves on, and behind them, like a giant guardian, Abdul Ghaffar Khan. We hear "Bapu, Bapu" muttered quietly here and there. Gandhi bends to a woman whose face is bandaged and a cruel wound is half-exposed between her mouth and eye. 
WOMAN Bapu... Allah be with you... 
There are tears in Gandhi's eyes now. 
GANDHI And with you. (He touches her wrinkled hand.) Pray... I cannot help you -- pray... pray. 
And the weight of his helplessness hangs on him. 
CALCUTTA STREET - EXTERIOR - DAY 
A streetcar (tram) crashes into a barricade of carts, rickshaws, a couple of old cars, smashing through to breach the barricade, but stopped in the end by the mass of debris. The streetcar is loaded with Indian troops and they break from the stalled vehicle to chase A gang of Hindus -- organized -- runs down the street from the troops, some dragging the bodies of victims with them. We see several Hindu black flags. 
NEHRU'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - NIGHT 
He speaks across his desk to a senior police commissioner. The same activity going on in the background. 
NEHRU (angrily) No! There will not be a Hindu Police and a Muslim Police. There is one police! 
An aide slips a newspaper on his desk in front of him. He doesn't look at it till the senior commissioner lowers his head and turns, accepting defeat. Then Nehru glances at the paper. 
In thick headlines: GANDHI: A FAST UNTO DEATH! 
Nehru doesn't move for a moment. Then he lifts his face slowly to his aide. 
NEHRU Why must I read news like this in the paper? 
The aide shakes his head -- there's no answer. Nehru lowers his head again; it is like another burden on a man who already has too many. He grips his temples... a terrible sigh. 
NEHRU Tell Patel. Arrange a plane. We will go -- Friday. 
THE AIDE Four days? 
Nehru thinks on it solemnly, then nods yes. 
TAHIB'S HOUSE - EXTERIOR - DAY 
The sounds of rioting and looting on nearby streets, but here a mass of people are gathered. Many youths with black flags. Two black government limousines. Motorcycles. Police and soldiers. They are looking off to 
AN OUTSIDE STAIRCASE - TAHIB'S HOUSE 
It runs up the side of the building and is lined with waiting people. Nehru and Patel are climbing the stairs, moving past them almost irritably as they mutter "Nehru, Nehru," "Patel," and make the pranam to the eminent men. 
In the heat of the city Tahib's rooftop is still Gandhi's "home" and has become a center of activity. Azad clears someone aside and ushers Nehru and Patel under the canopy awning. 
Nehru pauses as he lowers his head. 
Another angle. There are five men facing Gandhi. They wear black trousers and black knit vests. There are thongs around their arms that make their bulging muscles seem even more powerful. They are Hindu thugs (Goondas). Their clothes are dirty -- and they are too -- but they are laying knives and guns at Gandhi's feet. 
Mirabehn, Azad, Pyarelal, the doctor and others on the roof watch fascinated, a little frightened. 
GOONDA LEADER It is our promise. We stop. It is a promise. 
Gandhi is looking at him, testing, not giving or accepting anything that is mere gesture. 
GANDHI Go -- try -- God by with you. 
The Goondas stand. They glance at Suhrawardy; he smiles tautly and they start to leave, but one (Nahari) lingers. Suddenly he moves violently toward Gandhi, taking a flat piece of Indian bread (chapati) from his trousers and tossing it forcefully on Gandhi. 
NAHARI Eat. 
Mirabehn and Azad start to move toward him -- the man looks immensely strong and immensely unstable. But Gandhi holds up a shaking hand, stopping them. Nahari's face is knotted in emotion, half anger, half almost a child's fear -- but there is a wild menace in  that instability. 
NAHARI Eat! I am going to hell -- but not with your death on my soul. 
GANDHI Only God decides who goes to hell... 
NAHARI (stiffening, aggressive) I -- I killed a child... (Then an anguished defiance) I smashed his head against a wall. 
Gandhi stares at him, breathless. 
GANDHI (in a fearful whisper) Why? Why? 
It is as though the man has told him of some terrible self- inflicted wound. 
NAHARI (tears now -- and wrath) They killed my son -- my boy! 
Almost reflexively he holds his hand out to indicate the height of his son. He glares at Suhrawardy and then back at Gandhi. 
NAHARI The Muslims killed my son... they killed him. 
He is sobbing, but in his anger it seems almost as though he means to kill Gandhi in retaliation. A long moment, as Gandhi meets his pain and wrath. Then 
GANDHI I know a way out of hell. 
Nahari sneers, but there is just a flicker of desperate curiosity. 
GANDHI Find a child -- a child whose mother and father have been killed. A little boy -- about this high. 
He raises his hand to the height Nahari has indicated as his son's. 
GANDHI ...and raise him -- as your own. 
Nahari has listened. His face almost cracks -- it is a chink of light, but it does not illumine his darkness. 
GANDHI Only be sure... that he is a Muslim. And that you raise him as one. 
And now the light falls on Nahari. His face stiffens, he swallows, fighting any show of emotion; then he turns to go. But he takes only a step and he turns back, going to his knees, the sobs breaking again and again from his heaving body as he holds his head to Gandhi's feet in the traditional greeting of Hindu son to Hindu father. A second, and Gandhi reaches out and touches the top of his head. 
Mirabehn watches. The Goondas watch. Suhrawardy watches. Finally 
GANDHI (gently, exhaustedly) Go -- go. God bless you... 
COURTYARD - POLICE STATION - CALCUTTA - EXTERIOR - NIGHT 
Trucks with riot squads (shields and truncheons) in place, but they are lounging, waiting. There is silence, and air of somnolence. Some of the riot squad lounge in little groups around the courtyard. A distant cough. 
Featuring a senior riot squad officer dressed and ready for action. He it is who coughed. He coughs again, clearing his throat. A police sergeant stands by him, both are reading the front page of a paper the senior riot squad officer holds. We see two huge lines of headline: GANDHI NEAR DEATH/NEHRU GOES ON FAST. 
In one of the trucks one of the men offers another a cigarette. 
A telephone rings sharply, inside. The senior riot squad officer and the sergeant run in as engines start; the men run to their places, lower visors, headlights go on! 
POLICE STATION OFFICE - INTERIOR - DAY 
A constable mans the telephone. He listens as the senior riot squad officer and the sergeant run to him tensely. The sound of the great doors opening in the courtyard, more engines revving up. 
CONSTABLE Yes, sir, yes, sir, (He holds up his hand to the senior officer) "Wait." 
He glances up at the senior riot squad officer. 
CONSTABLE (writing, from the phone) Accident, "Christie crossroads," a lorry and a rickshaw. Yes, sir, I have it. 
He shrugs at the senior riot squad officer and hands the information slip to another constable behind the desk. 
The sergeant sighs, and moves to the outside door. We hear him bellow, "Stand down." The constable hangs up and sighs heavily. The senior riot squad officer shakes his head, and turns and walks slowly to the door. 
COURTYARD - POLICE STATION - EXTERIOR - NIGHT 
The senior riot squad officer and the sergeant stand in the doorway as the engines die. The men relax... the silence returns. A dog barks distantly, disturbed by the noise... A bird caws once or twice. 
SERGEANT I wouldn't have believed it, Mr. Gupta. 
SENIOR OFFICER Sergeant, it's a bloody miracle... 
HIGH SHOT - CALCUTTA - EXTERIOR - NIGHT 
It lies in silence. 
TAHIB'S ROOF - EXTERIOR - DAY 
Mirabehn is bent over Gandhi. He is curled almost in the fetal position, his face looking wan and sunken. For the first time there is silence, no explosions, no distant shouts, no gunfire. 
MIRABEHN Bapu, there's been no fighting -- anywhere. It has stopped -- the madness has stopped. 
We see the police commissioner, Suhrawardy, two doctors, Abdul Ghaffar Khan, and some others. Nearer Gandhi, behind Mirabehn, are Nehru, Patel, Azad and Pyarelal. 
Gandhi turns to Mirabehn, his face shaking, peering into her eyes. 
GANDHI It is foolish if it is just to save the life of an old man. 
MIRABEHN No... no. In every temple and mosque they have pledged to die before they lift a hand against each other. 
His weary eyes look at her; he looks up slowly to Azad. Azad nods "It's true." Then Patel 
PATEL Everywhere. 
Gandhi looks at Nehru. Nehru just nods tautly. Gandhi looks down, then lifts his head to Azad. 
GANDHI Maulana, my friend, could I have some orange juice... Then you and I will take a piece of bread together... 
The relief brings water to their eyes and grins to their faces. Nehru bends to Gandhi. Gandhi holds his hand out to him, and Nehru clutches it. Then 
NEHRU You see, Bapu, it is not difficult. I have fasted only a few hours and I accomplished what you could not do in as many days. 
