Gattaca, early draft, by Andrew M Niccol 
U N T I T L E D 
A Screen Play by Andrew M. Niccol 
FADE IN 
A white title appears on a black screen. 
"As night-fall does not come at once, neither does oppression...It is in such twilight that we all must be aware of change in the air - however slight - lest we become victims of the darkness." Justice William O. Douglas 
The title fades off, replaced by a second title. 
"I not only think that we will tamper with Mother Nature, I think Mother wants us to." 
William Gaylin 
The second title fades off, leaving a dark screen. 
The darkness gradually gives way to a dawning light. 
We are confronted with sight of a barren, empty landscape.  A wide expanse of wasteland. 
Suddenly, without warning, an elephant tusk falls from the sky and crashes onto the parched ground.  The earth-shuddering impact causes the tusk to rebound once in slow motion before finally settling to the desert floor in a cloud of dust. 
The first tusk is quickly followed by a second, also dropping from the heavens.  It lands near the first.  Another tusk smashes to earth several yards away.  Yet another comes crashing into the foreground. 
Finally the dust settles upon a graveyard of tusks. 
DISSOLVE TO 
A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE 
In another region of the wasteland, a forest of tree trunks suddenly rains down from the sky.  The trunks thump to the hard ground, also rebounding in slow motion.  Cleanly sawn, branchless, palm-like trunks, they come to rest in the dust only to be followed by a second cascade of lumber. 
When the dust finally clears. the felled tree trunks lie in a huge, log-jam in the desert. 
DISSOLVE TO 
A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE 
Next to descend from the sky, a torrent of firewood.  One shower after another, crashing to the plain.  Enough chopped lumber to fuel a thousand hearths. 
DISSOLVE TO 
A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE 
Joining the rest of the debris is a deluge of slate - sheets of shale from a great unseen quarry in the sky come slamming to earth.  Some of the pieces shattering, some rebounding into the air until the granite litters acres of landscape as far as the eye can see. 
TITLES ARE SPACED APPROPRIATELY THROUGHOUT THE PRECEDING SEQUENCE.  THE FINAL TITLE READS: 
T H E   N O T  -  T O O  -  D I S T A N T   F U T U R E 
The camera commences a long, slow pull-back from the pile of elephant tusks.  Gradually they are revealed as human fingernails magnified many hundreds of times. 
The tree trunks are mere hair follicles.  The firewood, whiskers.  The slate, flakes of skin. 
INT.  INCINERATOR.  EARLY MORNING. 
A naked MAN, thirties, seen in profile, is crouched upon a metal floor inside a small, brushed stainless steel tank, rubbing his skin raw with a wire brush.  JEROME MORROW. 
Having completed his scrupulous ablutions, Jerome arches his lean frame through the small, oval door of the metal room with practised ease. 
Securing the thick, fireproof windowed door behind himself, he turns a switch to release gas into the vacated chamber.  The gas instantly ignites in what is now revealed to be a gleaming modern stainless-steel custom-made incinerator. 
We refocus on a MAGNIFIED CLOSE UP of his exfoliated flesh in the incinerator as it blackens, curls and burns. 
140 #x20x08x$$x20x08x$$x20x08x$$x20{ 150 #x00x00x00x00x00x00x00x00x00x00 160 #xfexfexfexfexfexfexfexfexfexfe 
Jerome is transported - plotting a path through the heavens. As his fingers fly across the keys he does not once take his eyes from the screen. 
His is one of hundreds of ergonomically designed work stations, arranged in ever-widening circles in a huge, curcular, well- appointed if antiseptic room.  Each curved desk contains a computer terminal consisting of a keyboard and a slim, transparent screen behind which is seated a PROGRAMMER, designing software for the aerospace agency.  At the center of the room is a donut-shaped command console, chairs facing outwards, from which operations are monitored. 
Floor to ceiling smoked-glass curved walls offer the only concession to nature - a tinted view of a man-made, meticulously landscaped garden. 
Jerome tears himself away from his screen and picks up a discreet mini-vac.  He vacuums between the keys of his keyboard. DIRECTOR JOSEF, 50's, a shorter, official-looking man approaches.  His assistant IRENE stands at his shoulder. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF You keep your work station so clean, Jerome. 
JEROME --Next to Godliness, isn't that what they say? 
The Director smiles at the notion and places a computer disc on Jerome's desk. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF I reviewed your flight plan.  Not one error in a hundred thousand keystrokes.  Phenomenal. (placing a hand on Jerome's shoulder) It's right that someone like you is taking us to the Belt. (glancing to notification on Jerome's screen) You have a substance test. 
The Director briskly departs, Irene in tow.  At a nearby work station, a painfully thin programmer, NAPOLEON, perks up at the mention of the test. 
Jerome merely shrugs and pretends to reach down and scratch his ankle.  However he surreptitiously produced one of Eugene's transparent specimen bags from his sock.  An EXTREME CLOSE UP reveals the bag's contents - flakes of skin, hair follicles, eyelashes, a fingernail.  Cupping the bag in his hand to avoid detection, Jerome sprinkles the fraudulent body matter over his keyboard, desk surfaces and the floor around his work station. 
He opens his desk drawer and casually scatters the remainder of the bag.  Finally he inspects a comb already laced with two hair follicles. 
Jerome rises from his work station and makes his way towards the testing lab. 
INT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION - TESTING LABORATORY.  DAY. 
White-coated LAMAR, forties, buzzcut, a man's man, checks JEROME's eyes with an instrument.  Satisfied with his examination, he passes a transparent plastic container to JEROME.  Standing directly in front of the technician with his back to camera, Jerome opens his fly.  A steady stream of urine begins to flow into the container from Jerome's hidden pouch. 
LAMAR (staring admiringly at the discharge) Jerome...never shy.  Pisses on command. You've got a beautiful cock.  I ever told you that, Jerome? 
JEROME (deadpan as he continues to urinate) Only every time I'm in here. 
Jerome hands the container to Lamara who seals and label it as Jerome refastens his trousers. 
LAMAR I see a lot of cocks.  I speak from experience. Yours is a beautiful example.  Why didn't my folks order a cock like that for me? 
LAMAR pours the urine sample into a high-tech device where it is instantly analyzed.  The urine identifies Jerone while also registering a negative drug reading.  The computer reads "VALID". 
LAMAR (walking Jerome to the door) If everything goes to plan, this could be the last time I see you for a while.  One week to go.  Please tell me you're the least bit excited. 
JEROME I'll tell you at the end of the week. 
Jerome departs. 
INT.  GATTACA - RESTROOM.  DAY. 
JEROME enters the restroom and glances at the toilet stalls. Only three in the bank of twenty is occupied.  He tarries at the mirror above the uniform line of basins, unnecessarily reknotting his tie. 
A toilet flushes and a COLLEAGUE exits one of the stalls.  He and Jerome exchange a nod.  When the man has exited the restroom, Jerome enters the man's vacated stall. 
INT.  GATTACA - TOILET STALL.  DAY. 
JEROME immediately feels around the back of the toilet bowl and detaches a secreted stainless steel container. 
With surprising swiftness and dexterity, Jerome removes an extremely fine contact lens from each eye and drops the pair into the toilet bowl.  He inserts two replacement lenses from the container and reattaches it in its hiding place. Jerome flushes the toilet and exits the stall.  He checks in the mirror that his new contact lenses are properly inserted. 
INT.  GATTACA - CORRIDOR.  DAY. 
Walking back along one of the long, glass-walled corridors, JEROME becomes aware of a peculiar noise in the complex - or to be more precise, a lack of noise.  The incessant tapping of computer keys has stilled. 
As Jerome gazes through the glass walled corridor, we see the reflection of his face, deep in thought. 
JEROME (VO) The most unremarkable of events.  Jerome Morrow, Navigator First class, is only days away from a one-year manned mission to 951 Gaspra in the Outer Asteroid Belt.  Nothing so unique in that.  Last year over one thousand citizens from every walk of life embarked on some space mission or other.  Besides, selection for Jerome was virtually guaranteed at birth.  He is blessed with all the physical and intellectual gifts required for such an arduous undertaking, a genetic quotient second to none. 
Jerome's gaze drifts to the sky. 
There is little physical similarity between 11-YEAR-OLD ANTON and 13-YEAR-OLD VINCENT standing beside him, apart from their height.  In fact Vincent is mortified to see that his younger brother's mark is a fraction of an inch higher than the mark beside his own name, "VINCENT 13".  Vincent runs from the room. 
EXT.  BEACH.  DAY. 
13-YEAR-OLD VINCENT and 11-YEAR-OLD ANTON sit together on a windswept beach. 
Anton picks up a broken shell and deliberately slices the tip of his thumb with the sharp edge.  He hands the shell to Vincent who hesitantly follows suit. 
JEROME (VO) By the time we were playing at blood brothers I understood that there was something very different flowing through my veins. 
The two brothers press their thumbs together, merging the blood. 
JEROME (VO) And I'd need an awful lot more than a drop if I was going to get anywhere. 
EXT.  BEACH.  LATER IN THE DAY. 
While ANTONIO and MARIA doze under a beach umbrella, ANTON and VINCENT enter the water, diving through the waves.  From above we watch their two young bodies swimming beside each other beyond the breakers. 
JEROME (VO) Our favorite game was "chicken".  When our parents weren't watching, we used to swim outside the flags, as far out as we dared.  It was about who would get scared and turn back first. 
Suddenly VINCENT stops swimming, pulling up sharply in the water, exhausted and fearful.  He watches ANTON swim on into the distance. 
JEROME (VO) Of course, it was always me.  Anton was by far the stronger swimmer and he had no excuse to fail. 
INT.  SCHOOL - CLASSROOM.  DAY. 
A TEACHER gives a physics lesson.  The bespectacled 13-YEAR-OLD VINCENT has his arm energetically raised at each opportunity but is never called upon.  Eventually he lowers his arm in defeat. 
JEROME (VO) My genetic scarlet letter continued to follow me from school to school.  When you're told you're prone to learning disabilities, it's sometimes easier not to disappoint anybody. 
EXT.  STREET.  NIGHT. 
13-YEAR-OLD VINCENT stands at a cul-de-sac at the end of a long, straight deserted street.  He places a basketball in the middle of the street to represent the SUN and begins to unwind the huge reel of string attached to the ball.  11-YEAR-OLD ANTON walks a pace behind him.  Several yards along the trail a bead is threaded through the string to represent the planet MERCURY. 
ANTON How many astronauts are there, anyway? 
Vincent ignores him and continues to reel out the string. 
ANTON I bet I could be one. 
Vincent stops and regards his younger brother with contempt. 
VINCENT You're standing on Venus. 
Anton lifts his foot.  There is a bead beneath it. 
INT/EXT.  CAR / SATELLITE DISH.  DUSK. 
VINCENT has developed into a handsome 17-YEAR-OLD.  His spectacles hidden, he and a YOUNG WOMAN are necking in the front seat of a beat-up car, parked overlooking a huge satellite dish. 
JEROME (VO) I was popular enough until it got around that I wasn't a long-term proposition. 
The love-making intensifies.  The YOUNG WOMAN moves down Vincent's chest and unzips his fly. 
JEROME (VO) Those who didn't know already could easily find out for themselves.  It was certainly no problem coaxing the information out of me. 
We remain on Vincent's face as he climaxes.  The YOUNG WOMAN turns her head away from the spent Jerome and, out of his view, trickles semen from her mouth into a clear specimen vial. 
JEROME (VO) I didn't blame them.  You need to know if a prospective husband can qualify for a mortgage or life insurance or can hold down a decent job. 
INT.  HOME.  DAY. 
In the living room of their modest home, the dark-haired, 17- year-old, bespectacled VINCENT sits opposite his PARENTS.  The crestfallen Vincent has a book on his lap entitled "CAREERS IN SPACE". 
MOTHER (trying to break it gently) Vincent, you have to be realistic.  A heart condition like yours-- 
VINCENT --I don't care.  I'll take the risk. 
A pick-up truck, packed with a CLEANING CREW, pulls into the rear of the building.  They are no longer strictly the migrant workers we have come to expect but rather a mixture of ethnicities - all members of a genetic underclass that does not discriminate by race. 
As VINCENT exits the truck and turns towards the camera, we discover that he has now matured into the man we have come to know as JEROME.  The only visible differences are the glasses he wears and his hair, still naturally dark. 
JEROME (VO) Like many others in my situation, I moved around a lot in the next few years, getting work where I could.  I must have cleaned half the toilets in the state. 
We follow VINCENT through the course of a day.  Cleaning restrooms, toilets, picking up litter, sweeping, washing windows - gazing at the AEROSPACE WORKERS below.  The building is part of the Gattaca facility, located near a shuttle launch site.  Throughout the day, with the regularity of 747's, Vincent spies rocket ships in the distance, launching into the sky. Jerome's is the only head that turns and looks up.  Long after the sun has set, Vincent is still working.  Another rocket ship lights up the darkness.  Vincent gazes forlornly into the heavens. 
EXT. GATTACA - GLASS WALL.  DAY. 
VINCENT cleans a window from the outside, staring in at the arrogant GATTACA EMPLOYEES entering the security channels - a smaple taken from their fingertips.  Jerome, in a trance, constantly cleans the same spot of glass.  He fails to notice an Older Janitor, CAESAR, appear beside him. 
CAESAR When you clean the glass, Vincent, don't clean it too well. 
VINCENT (confused) What do you mean? 
CAESAR (glancing to the Gattaca workers) You might get ideas. 
VINCENT But if the glass is clean, it'll be easier for you to see me when I'm on the other side of it. 
Caesar smiles at Vincent's cockiness. 
INT.  GATTACA.  DAY. 
VINCENT empties garbage into a dumpster adjacent to Gattaca. His attention is drawn to something in the trash.  A discarded manual on Celestial Mechanics and Navigation.  He wipes food residue off the corner. 
INT.  ASTRONOMY & TELESCOPE SHOP.  DAY. 
A forest of telescopes on tripods in an astronomy shop.  VINCENT enters the store with a bucket and squeegee and immediately goes to clean the storefront window.  The STORE OWNER looks up from his tabloid - "STAR" magazine. 
OWNER Where's Earl? 
JEROME He fell.  Lucky it was only the second floor. 
The owner nods and returns to his magazine.  When he looks up again one of his tripods is missing its telescope and Jerome is nowhere to be seen. 
INT.  IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT.  NIGHT. 
JEROME returns to his bare apartment.  He removes the cloth covering the bucket to reveal a dumpy-shaped telescope snugly wedged inside.  He starts to pour over his collection of textbooks.  Other tattered space paraphenalia adorns the wall. 
JEROME (VO) Of course the best test score in the world wasn't going to get me in the front door unless I had the blood test to go with it. 
EXT.  GATTACA.  NIGHT. 
While his fellow WORKERS sit on the steps at the service entrance to Gattaca, passing around an unlabeled bottle of clear liquor, VINCENT sits some distance away studying his text book. In the absence of a computer, he practices typing commands on a keyboard handdrawn on the flap of a cardboard box. 
A tiny, seedy-looking man, GERMAN, forties, appears from nowhere and takes a seat beside him. 
GERMAN (offering his hand) Vincent, I'm German-- (anticipating Vincent's response) That's my name. 
He looks the apprehensive Vincent up and down. 
VINCENT What do you think? 
GERMAN (shrugs) I think I could do something (glancing to the text book) provided you know what you're doing and you can meet the terms. 
Vincent pulls a plastic e-money card from his overalls. 
GERMAN You got a photo of yourself? 
Vincent produces a snapshot of himself - torn from the family portrait.  German feeds the snapshot into the pocket-sized computer he carries.  The picture is instantly scanned and appears on the computer's small color screen.  German returns the photograph and hastily departs. 
CAESAR, the elderly janitor, notices German's exit. 
CAESAR (to Vincent) I thought I told you not to get any ideas. 
High up the side of a building, washing windows, VINCENT pauses occasionally to practice typing commands on his cardboard keys - viewing a screen in his imagination - or the nightsky itself. He hears his name being called. 
In a nearby park MODEL CHILDREN from MODEL PARENTS play together. 
JEROME (VO) Anyone who is the product of an altered DNA is proudly referred to as a "DAN", "self-made man or woman", "man-child". 
INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  NIGHT. 
JEROME wheels EUGENE out of their housing project.  He takes in the neighborhood for the last time.  We focus on a POOR COUPLE cradling an INFANT. 
JEROME (VO) Those parents who, for moral or, more likely economic reasons, refrain from tampering with their offspring's genetic makeup or who fail to abort a deprived fetus condemn their children to a life of routine discrimination. 
We glimpse other PEOPLE in the neighborhood.  They appear poor but, for the most part, physically normal.  However a pall of gloom hangs over them. 
JEROME (VO) Officially they are called "In-Valids"*.  Also known as "godchildren", "men-of-god", "faith births", "blackjack births", "deficients", "defectives", "genojunk", "ge-gnomes", "the fucked-up people". 
[* "IN-VALID" pronounced as in "an invalid license"] 
JEROME (VO) They are the "healthy ill".  They don't actually have anything yet - they may never. But since few of the pre-conditions can be cured or reversed, it is easier to treat them as if they were already sick. 
As they enter a car, driven by GERMAN, Jerome spies a beautiful young GIRL, 11, sitting on the steps of the housing project, staring forlornly into space.  While there is no outward sign of any deficiency, she is somehow aware that she is damaged goods. 
Jerome glances in the rearview mirror. 
JEROME (VO) By means of a donor I have cheated the system for the last four years to open doors that would otherwise be closed to me. 
Jerome wheels Eugene into the palatial condominium complex where the two men now reside. 
INT.  GATTACA.  PRESENT DAY. 
We return to JEROME's reflection in the glass.  Other GATTACA EMPLOYEES are gradually gathering behind him. 
JEROME (VO) In the guise of Jerome Morror I have risen quickly through the ranks of Gattaca.  Only one of the Mission Directors has ever come close to discovering my true identity. 
We now see what Jerome has been gazing at through the window the whole time - the sight that has brought a hush to the complex.  Through an open office door lies the body of a large man - the MURDERED DIRECTOR, lying where he has just been discovered, in a pool of his own blood. 
JEROME (VO) Strange to think, he may have more success exposing me in death than he did in life. 
Jerome wipes his eye and also goes to investigate.  We focus on an extreme close up of his EYELASH.  Loosened by Jerome's hand, it breaks free and floats gently down to the floor where it comes to rest. 
INT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION.  MORNING. 
DETECTIVE HUGO, late-forties, wearing a crime-scene hygenic suit and gloves and a full clear mask - looking more like a surgeon or a toxic waste worker than a detective - places a blood- spattered computer keyboard alongside the Director's shattered skull.  The indentations match the blunt corner of the keyboard. Hugo detaches the dangling keyboard from its parent computer and seals the likely murder weapon in a marked, transparent plastic bag. 
A CREW of similarly-suited homicide detectives systematically vacuum the surrounding office area with metallic, industrial- looking mini-vacs.  Once each work space has been vacuumed, the transparent plastic vacuum bag is detached, sealed and labelled. 
OTHER DETECTIVES video the scene with camcorders.  Video prints spit out of the cameras for instant inspection. 
EXT.  GATTACA - LANDSCAPED GARDENS.  DAY. 
A silicon police tape cordons off the crime scene.  From the landscaped garden, a crowd of GATTACA EMPLOYEES view the proceedings through the glass walls. 
EMPLOYEE 1 (staring at the Director's body) Awful. 
EMPLOYEE 2 Yeah, awful it didn't happen sooner. 
Nervous smirks from nearby employees.  We focus on JEROME. Standing slightly apart from the others, he does not appear to share the joke, or perhaps even hear it.  Jerome watches, wide- eyed, as a DETECTIVE approaches his work station with a mini- vac.  A chill goes through Jerome as the detective's cleaner passes over his desk. 
Jerome is distracted by a smear on the window, obstructing his view.  Without thinking, he breathes on the glass and rubs the smear away with his elbow.  Nearby, elderly janitor, CAESAR notices Jerome's fastidious act and reads the panic in Jerome's eyes.  DIRECTOR JOSEF suddenly appears at Jerome's shoulder. Standing a pace behind the Director, computer notepad in hand, is IRENE. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF You're lucky to be getting out of this. 
JEROME We're still going ahead as planned? 
DIRECTOR JOSEF The launch window is only open until week's end.  Tragic though this event may be, it hasn't stopped the planets turning. 
He glances towards a group of Detectives headed by HUGO. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF You'll have to excuse me, Jerome.  I have to meet with the authorities--naturally, we're co-operating in any way, although I won't tolerate a major disruption. (as he departs) I wish I was going with you, Jerome. 
Irene contemplates the question. 
JEROME (gently pressing) Well, shall we say we spent the evening together? 
Irene is still unsure whether or not Jerome is serious. 
IRENE To be convincing, Jerome, I would have to know what that was like. 
Irene turns and departs.  Jerome watches her go. 
INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT. 
The paraplegic EUGENE, seated by the window, meticulously cuts a long fingernail into numerous clippings.  He places the clippings in small plastic bags and seals them.  He then begins to fill tiny sachets with blood.  He turns as he hears JEROME enter down the spiral staircase with the groceries. 
EUGENE You didn't forget the truffles? 
JEROME places the items in the refrigerator in the bathroom and retrieves a bottle of vodka - the vodka incongruous-looking beside the blood and urine specimens.  Joining Eugene at his workbench, he pours them both a drink. 
EUGENE (sensing something amiss, trying to keep his humor) Who died? 
JEROME The Mission Director. 
EUGENE (misinterpreting the deadpan remark) You wish. 
JEROME They found him in his office this morning-- beaten so bad they had to check his nametag. 
Eugene takes in the news, a smile broadening across his face. 
EUGENE What an act of benevolence--a service to the community.  So that's it.  Now there's nothing between you and ignition. 
JEROME He was still warm when they confirmed. 
EUGENE (confused by Jerome's attitude) This calls for a celebration.  Doesn't it? 
JEROME The place is crawling with Hoovers. 
EUGENE So what?  You didn't kill him, did you? 
Jerome shoots him a glance for the inappropriate remark. 
JEROME That's not the point. 
EUGENE (scoffing) Hey, how much of you can be there?  Even if the "J. Edgars" do find something, in a week-- (glancing up to the night sky) you'll be slightly out of their jurisdiction. (gently chiding) Come on, we've got to get drunk immediately. 
JEROME (still tempering Eugene's enthusiasm) You're going to have to earn your supper.  I've got my final physical tomorrow. 
Jerome wheels Eugene's chair to a specially constructed platform that allows the wheels to spin in mid-air.  Jerome tapes an electrode to Eugene's chest and attaches the wire to a slim recording device.  Eugene begins to spin the wheel of the chair faster and faster.  Jerome monitors Eugene's steady heartbeat through a set of headphones. 
INT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION - COMPUTER COMPLEX.  NIGHT. 
The complex is virtually empty - only a handful of the hundreds of PROGRAMMERS working late into the night.  IRENE approaches JEROME's work station on the pretext of delivering some documents.  Trying to act casually, she looks under the papers on his desk, then opens the top desk drawer. 
We see an EXTREME CLOSE UP of the comb lying there - the two hairs trapped between the teeth of the comb.  Irene removes one of the follicles and drops it into an envelope she is carrying. 
INT.  24-HOUR SEQUENCING LAB.  NIGHT. 
"SEQUENCING-WHILE-U-WAIT".  Similar to a 1-hour photo lab, the store - little more than a booth - displays a price list on the wall.  "FULL SEQUENCE - $80".  IRENE waits in line with a cross- section of other CUSTOMERS.  She checks the contents of the envelope that contains the hair. 
The YOUNG WOMAN in line ahead of her allows the TECHNICIAN to take a swab from her full lips with a Q-tip. 
TECHNICIAN How old? 
YOUNG WOMAN (confused) Me? 
TECHNICIAN (mustering patience, referring to the Q-tip) The specimen. 
YOUUNG WOMAN (proudly) I kissed him five minutes ago.  A real good one. 
EUGENE lies on the hood of the car, leaning against the windshield, drinking from a bottle of vodka.  In the background, the unmanned satellite dish.  JEROME relieves himself against the building at the base of the satellite. 
EUGENE (gently chiding Jerome over the joyride) You idiot.  You could ruin everything with a stunt like that. 
Eugene spies a spacecraft launching from Gattaca city. 
EUGENE (gazing up into the night sky) At least up there your piss will be worth something. (smiling at the thought) You'll all be showering in it, right? 
JEROME (zipping his fly) And drinking it.  It's like Evian by the time it's filtered. 
EUGENE (referring to the rocket ship) What is that one? 
Jerome doesn't bother to look in the direction of the craft but merely glances to his watch.  He joins Eugene on the hood of the car. 
JEROME (looking at his watch) 11.15 to the port.  A maintenance crew. 
EUGENE How long do you stay up there before you go? 
JEROME A day or so. 
EUGENE (beaming) I still can't believe they're sending you to the Belt--you of all people--never meant to be born, on a mission to discover the origin of life. 
Eugene laughs to himself and passes the bottle to Jerome. 
JEROME You should be going instead of me. 
Jerome taps Eugene's lifeless legs with his foot. 
JEROME Up there they wouldn't be a problem. 
EUGENE (glancing heavenwards, shaking his head) You know I'm scared of heights. 
INT.  CRIME LABORATORY - AUTOPSY ROOM.  NIGHT. 
The body and clothing of the MISSION DIRECTOR, lying on a metal examining table is scanned with a blue-light magnifying instrument.  Fingernail specimens are taken for analysis.  In another area of the laboratory, the labelled vacuum bags are attached to analyzers and the contents sucked out and automatically identified.  ID names and photographs of GATTACA EMPLOYEES begin appearing on a computer screen at high speed along with other personal details - all data automatically logged for later review. 
The photographs and personal details of JEROME and IRENE flash past, amongst the faces of other employees. 
We focus on a magnified close up of JEROME'S EYELASH, still clinging stubbornly to the side of its specimen bag.  We continue to follow its journey as it is finally sucked into the analyzer. 
INT.  CRIME LAB - ANALYZER MACHINE.  NIGHT. 
Inside the machine, a minute, cell-thin sliver is sliced from JEROME'S EYELASH and analyzed. 
INT.  INVESTIGATOR'S CRIME LAB.  NIGHT. 
A severed HUMAN TONGUE sits on a tray in a sterile, sealed chamber.  Using gloves that protrude through the chamber's glass wall, face buried in a binocular eyepiece, the INVESTIGATOR takes a swab from the tongue. 
INVESTIGATOR (to the tongue, as he inserts the tip of the swab into an analyzer) Let's see what you've got to say for yourself. 
A FEMALE ASSISTANT, looking on, hardly has time to smile at the remark before information begins to appear on a nearby computer terminal.  The computer gradually builds a portrait of the owner of the tongue using genetic predictors.  The Investigator wanders over to the window as his Assistant reads the information from the screen. 
ASSISTANT The tongue is male.  Mature.  Blonse hair. Brown eyes.  Light complexion.  Between 5'11 and 6'1.  Pronounced Caucasian nose. Thin lips.  Weak chin.  Lobeless ears. Prematurely balding.  Slightly bow-legged. Broad shoulders.  Barrel chest... (pause) Blind. 
INVESTIGATOR (interest piqued) Blind? (mildly amused, checking the monitor for himself) The tongue is blind? 
ASSISTANT (confused) Who cuts out the tongue of a blind man? 
INVESTIGATOR (shrugs) Someone who is mindful that the blind still speak. 
The INVESTIGATOR is alerted by the chime of his nearby computer. On the screen, he discovers the face of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT and the accompanying flashing message: TRACKING IN-VALID 883000181105-10  - NEW DATA - 
INT.  CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX - PARKING GARAGE.  NIGHT. 
Having plugged his car into an overnight charger, JEROME pushes EUGENE in his wheelchair to the elevator.  Bottle in hand, Eugene leans over and vomits on the ground.  Jerome shakes his head resignedly.  Eugene looks drunkenly up at Jerome. 
EUGENE (sarcastically referring to the pool of vomit) I'm sorry.  Did you want it? 
Detective Hugo goes to comment further, then revises his remark in his head before speaking. 
DETECTIVE HUGO Even if this Vincent Luca is alive, is it likely he could bludgeon a man to death? 
INVESTIGATOR No.  Not likely. 
The Investigator's tone suggests that the identity of the culprit is no longer a matter for debate.  There is an awkward pause before the Detective falls into step with his superior. 
DETECTIVE HUGO I take it you're thinking along the lines of a robbery gone sour--a thief disturbed in the act? 
The Investigator merely shrugs. 
DETECTIVE HUGO (skeptical) Of course that doesn't jibe with what we found.  This was an angry killing. 
INVESTIGATOR (glancing to the profile in Hugo's hand) Who knows with these "deficients"?  His profile indicates a proclivity for violence. 
DETECTIVE HUGO (trying to appear co-operative) I'll run a crossover on the eyelash for any family or associate connections-- 
INVESTIGATOR --I've already run it.  There's no record of any living relative. 
DETECTIVE HUGO What a pity. 
INVESTIGATOR (irritated, glancing to the sample bag) Detective Hugo, it's a simple case of lost and found.  All we have to do is locate the man who's minus an eyelash and this murder will solve itself. 
We focus on JEROME at his work station.  Although he continues to work, he clrarly feels the presence of the INVESTIGATORS on the mezzanine floor behind him. 
A MEDICAL DIRECTOR approaches the programmer in the neighboring work station - NAPOLEON, the programmer Jerome encountered in the nightclub the previous evening. 
MEDICAL DIRECTOR Napoleon, you're late for your substance test. 
Napoleon looks up, ashen-faced.  Jerome intervenes. 
JEROME Director, Napoleon's helping me today. 
The Director regards both men suspiciously. 
MEDICAL DIRECTOR Well, you take it for him, Jerome. 
The Medical Director departs.  Napoleon, stunned by the reprieve, approaches Jerome's work station and pretends to study the program on his computer screen. 
NAPOLEON Why did you do that? 
JEROME (exiting to the testing lab) Don't worry about it. 
INT.  GATTACA - TESTING LAB.  DAY. 
From behind we observe JEROME standing in front of LAMAR, issuing forth his steady stream of fraudulent urine. 
EXT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION - WORKOUT CENTER.  DAY. 
Twenty GATTACA EMPLOYEES, identically-outfitted men and women, run in a perfectly straight line towards the tranquil lake of the picturesque grounds, never getting any closer to their goal. They run at a steady 10mph on twenty identical state-of-the-art treadmill machines sunken into the floor and arranged in a uniform row facing a floor to ceiling window.  The strain is beginning to show on many of the faces.  The heartrate of each employee is monitored via a wireless electrode attached to the chest. 
Outside in the sunshine the next batch of twenty EMPLOYEES limbers up in readiness for their physical.  JEROME's only preparation consists of thoughtfully dragging on a cigarette while staring out at the man-made lake.  His nonchalant attitude disheartens nearby colleagues, including IRENE who is amongst a group of workers excused from the run by benevolent, over-protective TRAINERS. 
TRAINER You're excused, Irene.  You may resume your duties. 
On the way into the work-out facility Jerome stubs out his cigarette in a stainless steel ashtray.  Only we are aware of the slim credit card-sized recording device that he furtively slips out of his cigarette pack and secrets in his hand.  As he takes his place on one of the treadmills and adheres the cordless electrode to his chest, Jerome surreptitiously attaches his device to the underside of the running machine's control panel. 
INT.  GATTACA - WORK-OUT OBSERVATION ROOM.  DAY. 
From a mezzanine floor above the work-out room, LAMAR, the medical officer, monitors computer read-outs displaying the pace and pulse of the runners on each treadmill machine. 
INT. GATTACA - WORK-OUT CENTER.  DAY. 
One by one the GATTACA EMPLOYEES drop out until JEROME is the sole remaining runner.  Several of the other employees stand around and watch Jerome run as they towel off. 
He appears under little duress, staring directly ahead, seemingly in a trance.  As we focus on his chest, only we are aware of the sound of his furiously pounding heart making a lie of his calm exterior. 
JEROME (eyes fixed on the view) We were looking at each other.  You stopped. 
Irene, also keeps her gaze ahead. 
IRENE I'm sorry.  I didn't mean anything. 
JEROME (shrugging as if it makes no difference to him) We were just looking. 
IRENE I know about you. 
Jerome turns to her, startled, trying to read her face.  Irene takes a deep breath and abruptly plucks a long, dark hair from her head. 
IRENE (offering the hair to Jerome) Here, take it. 
Jerome, confused, takes the hair - more in reflex than intent. 
IRENE (a challenge) If you're still interested, let me know. 
Jerome contemplates the hair in his fingers for a moment, then deliberately lets it fall to the grounf. 
JEROME (never taking his eyes from her) Sorry, the wind caught it. 
Irene meets his gaze.  There is not a breath of wind.  The hair lies, plainly visible on the ground. 
EXT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE COMPLEX.  AFTERNOON. 
As JEROME and IRENE walk between the wind turbines, Jerome pretends not to notice that Irene keeps furtively checking the pulse on her wrist.  They pause in the shade. 
JEROME (as if making conversation) Have they found our friend? 
IRENE Friend? 
JEROME (shrugs) It was a mercy-killing after all. 
IRENE They found an eyelash. 
JEROME Where? 
IRENE In the South Wing. 
JEROME Does it have a name? 
IRENE Just some In-Valid.  Vincent-- (trying to come up with the last name) --somebody. 
Jerome turns away to disguise his alarm.  He quickly recovers. 
JEROME Perhaps we ought to celebrate, Irene. 
IRENE (a smile playing around her lips) You celebrate, Jerome? 
INT.  EUGENE'S CONDO.  NIGHT. 
EUGENE talks irritably on the phone, examining a container from a newly opened case of hair bleach. 
EUGENE (into phone) --I know what I ordered.  I ordered "Honey Dawn" and you sent me "Summer Wheat". 
JEROME descends the staircase, taking the steps two at a time. He immediately goes to the refrigerator, removing trays of samples.  Eugene abruptly hangs up the phone. 
JEROME (OC) Call German. 
EUGENE Any particular reason? 
JEROME (collecting up sample bags from the work bench) We can't stay here. 
EUGENE What are you talking about? 
JEROME They think I offed the Director. 
JEROME Not thirsty? (referring to the fridge) We've got enough virgin samples to last us the week. 
EUGENE I don't feel too good.  I think I'm still drunk from last night. 
JEROME Never stopped you before. (regarding Eugene's head) And for God's sake stop plucking your hair. Someone went to a lot of trouble to make sure you wouldn't go bald. 
EUGENE If I were you I'd worry about myself. (nodding to Jerome's spectacles) Haven't you forgotten something? 
Jerome pockets the spectacles and enters the bathroom for his contact lenses.  The horn sounds outside the window a second time and Jerome hastily exits.  We stay with Eugene.  Irene catches a glimpse of him before he moves away from the window. Jerome emerges from the building. 
As the couple drive away, Eugene wheels himself to the full length mirror.  He regards his own reflection for a moment and opens the mirror - a disguised door opening into the adjacent apartment.  A cloud of condensed water vapor billows out. GERMAN, the DNA Broker, emerges with an ENGINEER. 
He sends the engineer on his way and joins Eugene at his desk. Eugene hands German a credit card that he wipes through his computer. 
GERMAN We still need to overhaul the back-up generator. (fixing Eugene with a penetrating stare) What's going on, Eugene, I thought he was going away, not you--you going on vacation? 
EUGENE (looking away) You got it, German. 
GERMAN (nodding thoughtfully) You deserve it. 
INT. CONCERT HALL - AUDITORIUM.  NIGHT. 
JEROME and IRENE step over feet, apologizing as they go, eventually finding their seats in a box in a sold-out concert hall. 
On the stage below, a YOUNG PIANIST - a teenage prodigy - has already taken his place at the keys of a grand piano.  The pianist removes his white gloves and begins to play - an extremely complex and beautiful piece we have never heard before.  IRENE looks to JEROME.  He is clearly caught up in the music. 
EXT.  IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT.  NIGHT. 
The music from the piano recital continues under the following contrasting action.  A huge, brooding housing project.  PEOPLE hang around on street corners.  Menace in the air - a feeling of impending violence. 
Suddenly unmarked police cars appear from all directions, blocking any escape route.  Dozens of PLAINCLOTHES DETECTIVES pour out of the cars and onto the street. 
People scatter, many running straight into the arms of the Detectives.  OTHERS, spilling out of the housing project, are also immediately apprehended. 
The Detectives quickly weed out those suspects not fitting Jerome's description - WOMEN, OLD MEN and TEENAGERS.  They are shepherded off the street.  A line of IN-VALIDS is formed several hundred yards long.  Detectives begin to laboriously move along the line, taking finger-prick blood samples from each suspect - instantly confirming their identities with portable analyzers worn on their hips. 
As if having the idea at the same time, TWO SEPARATE MEN suddenly bolt from the line, knowing that their blood will incriminate them.  Other Detectives, watching for such escape attempts, esaily apprehend them and escort them to a waiting police van. 
With the raid under control, DETECTIVE HUGO indicates to the INVESTIGATOR that it is safe to exit his car.  The Investigator appears irritated, only half-glancing at the TWO MEN already in custody, apparently certain that neither one is his suspect. 
DETECTIVE HUGO (enthusiastic) Not our fish, but sometihng stuck in the net. 
The Investigator clearly does not share Hugo's enthusiasm.  The Detective offers the Investigator an age enhanced photograph, computer-generated from the last existing photo of VINCENT as a 20-year-old. 
DETECTIVE HUGO This is the age enhancement we're working with. 
The Investigator ignores the photo, preferring instead to trust his own eye as he wanders along the line of suspects. 
DETECTIVE HUGO (referring to the line-up) As you requested, we've kept the parameters wider than usual. 
The MEN they scrutinize are hardly mutants - the differences between an IN-VALID and a DAN are subtle at best.  Some shorter, some wearing glasses, some with receding hairlines or bald, many with no discernable physical difference at all.  The Investigator is only halfway down the line before he turns and starts walking back to his car. 
The mystified Detective Hugo follows his superior. 
INVESTIGATOR We're in the wrong place.  We're wasting time. 
DETECTIVE HUGO This is the most likely location-- 
The Investigator wheels on Hugo, suddenly angry, clearly unused to having his judgement questioned. 
INVESTIGATOR --There's that word again.  I have a feeling This man doesn't play the odds, Detective.  Not exactly a slave to probability.  Is it "likely" that a man who has successfully eluded authorities for fifteen years--a brutal killer--is going to come to us now like a lamb? 
DETECTIVE HUGO (taken aback by the outburst) Is there something more we should know about this suspect, Sir?  I mean besides what's on his sheet. 
INVESTIGATOR Since going underground, traces of this In-Valid have shown up at the scene of four serious felonies.  Do you need any more than that? 
DETECTIVE HUGO With respect, Sir, many perfectly innocent citizens have left specimens at as many crime scenes.  Maybe he's just unlucky. 
An OFFICER approaches Jerome and, without a word, opens an electronic testing kit worn on his hip.  He removes a sterilized Q-tip and motions for Jerome to open his mouth so he can scrape a culture.  Jerome waves his hand in front of his mouth, feigning embarrassment. 
JEROME (conspiratorial) Better not. (nodding in Irene's direction) Don't want to give you a contaminated specimen...if you get my meaning. 
IRENE plays along, shrugging coyly at the cop. 
We see an EXTREME CLOSE UP of Jerome's hand as he furtively retrieves a hair follicle attached to his shirt cuff.  With the hair already in his fingers, he pretends to pluck a hair from his head, faking a wince at the appropriate moment. 
The cop, wearing transparent latex gloves, takes the follicle and places it in a receptacle in his kit.  After a short moment the hair confirms JEROME's driving ID which appears on the kit's electronic screen.  As the cop departs, Irene looks questioningly at Jerome. 
JEROME Thanks. (answering her unasked question) You never know where those swabs have been. 
Irene nods, however clearly not convinced.  She shakes the doubt from her mind. 
IRENE I want to show you something. 
She accelerates away.  We see the road ahead from Jerome's POV. Without his contact lenses, it is a blur. 
INT.  MICHAEL'S CLUB.  NIGHT. 
After closing time, suited DETECTIVES vacuum the club in which Jerome and Eugene dined the previous evening.  MICHAEL, the owner, looks on disdainfully.  Waiting in the background, the regular CLEANERS - most likely In-valids themselves - smirk to each other, enjoying watching the cops do their work for them. 
EXT.  OCEAN HIGHWAY.  NIGHT. 
With no place to turn the car around, IRENE parks on the cliff side of the six-lane highway.  In the darkness she dashes from the car and, without a second thought, runs directly out into the heavy commuter traffic.  Easily negotiating the on-coming cars, she emerges safely on the other side of the highway. 
JEROME, rounding the car from the passenger side, is about to follow, when he suddenly pulls up sharply at the curb.  We focus on his eyes, deprived of the benefit of their contact lenses. From Jerome's POV, we see that the headlights rushing towards him are nothing but a series of fast-moving blurs - blurs that merge together.  He is unable to distinguish between the vehicles or judge their distance. 
IRENE (calling back urgently from the other side, mindful of the light beginning to leak into the sky) Come on!  We'll miss it! 
Irene stares expectantly back at Jerome with her 20/20 vision, unaware of his predicament.  Jerome puts a foot off the curb at the wrong moment and is almost collected by an on-coming car. Irene is taken-aback at his mistiming.  Does she detect a squint on Jerome's face?  To Jerome, the figure of Irene on the other side of the highway is merely a featureless shape but he feels her expectation.  He touches the spectacles, still in his pocket, but they are an unthinkable option. 
He shakes the idea from his head and turns back to the swiftly- flowing highway.  He makes up his mind - he cannot allow himself to be shamed, even at the risk of life and limb.  Hardly even glancing at the traffic, he suddenly bolts blindly across the road.  Headlights hurtling towards him, cars fortuitously brushing past his heels, horns blaring.  Jerome makes a final leap to the haven of the far curb, the rush of air from a large, fast-moving truck blowing him the final inches to the sidewalk. 
Irene is stunned by the near miss.  She is about to comment but Jerome takes her by the arm and ushers her towards the dunes. 
JEROME Come on.  We'll miss it. 
EXT.  BEACH.  DAWN. 
JEROME and IRENE huddle beneath an overcoat as the sun crests the horizon, staining the sky with an ochre blush. 
IRENE What did I tell you? 
Jerome nods.  However, to his eyes the rising yolk is nothing but an out-of-focus, abstract ink blot. 
IRENE I envy you, Jerome. 
JEROME You'll be next. 
IRENE I don't think so.  The only trip I'll make in space is around the sun-- (letting a handful of sand slip through her fingers) --on this satellite right here. 
Irene turns to Jerome. 
IRENE (blurting out what's really on her mind) --Listen, I don't want to waste your time and I really don't want you to waste mine. I don't know what you're after but I have a feeling I'm not it. 
Irene suddenly takes Jerome's hand and puts it up her sweater, onto her breast.  Although taken aback, Jerome makes no effort to withdraw his hand. 
IRENE (enjoying his unease) It's here.  My heart. (adding quickly) I'm careful--weekly check-ups.  I'm on a drug maintenance program, blood thinners, diet-- (slowly removing his hand) I just want you to know what you'd be getting yourself into. 
JEROME What exactly is wrong? 
IRENE Nothing yet.  I'll start experiencing symptoms in my late-fifties. (matter-of-fact) But unless they come up with something between now and then, I won't live much past 67. 
Jerome's mouth drops a little, betraying his surprise at the statement from a woman plainly still in her twenties. 
IRENE Of course I think about it every day. 
DETECTIVE HUGO (immediately protesting) You know their workforce.  Two-thirds at least fall into the category.  We'll be closing down their operation for days. (seeking a compromise) At least go with a fingertip sample or urine. 
INVESTIGATOR (shaking his head) Blood.  From the vein. 
The Investigator turns on his heel to prevent further protest. The Detective and his ASSISTANTS exchange looks of exasperation behind the Investigator's back. 
INT.  GATTACA.  DAY. 
JEROME, drinking water, stands in front of a large video bulletin board.  Among other things, it displays the electronic mugshot of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT alongside the recent computer generated age enhancement of his face. 
Some distance away, CAESAR, the elderly janitor, discusses the mugshots with a YOUNGER JANITOR. 
CAESAR Look like anybody to you? 
YOUNGER JANITOR Not to me. 
CAESAR Ugly sonofabitch though, isn't he? 
Jerome half-smiles, realizing that the conversation is for his benefit.  Having made it clear that they do not intend to expose their former colleague, the two janitors continue their rounds. 
Jerome crushes his paper cup.  Forgetting himself, he drops the cup into the wastebasket. 
INT.  CRAFT.  DAY. 
JEROME familiarizes himself with the interior of a spacecraft under the supervision of DIRECTOR JOSEF and the MISSION COMMANDER.  The screen that Jerome sits at is identical to the one he operates in the computer complex - displaying asteroid 951 Gaspra. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF --Somewhere in the dust of Gaspra is the key. (warming to his theme) Back to the beginning of the book--the life we became.  With the original building blocks who knows how far we can take "the godding". 
MISSION COMMANDER (wry smile) Even someone as advanced as Jerome will be last year's model by the time we're done. 
JEROME (smiling back) I wouldn't get your hopes up, Commander. 
Irene enters the craft. 
IRENE Excuse me, Mr Morrow.  The investigators have begun their testing. 
DETECTIVE JOSEF This is so inconvenient, Irene.  They can make an exception for Jerome. 
IRENE I'm afraid not. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF I apologize, Jerome. 
JEROME It's not yor fault, Director. (afterthought) If your predecessor were still around we may not be going to Gaspra at all. That's what I would call inconvenient. 
Jerome exits the craft with Irene. 
INT.  GATTACA CORPORATION - CORRIDOR.  DAY. 
A line of MALE GATTACA EMPLOYEES snakes out the door and down the corridor.  The INVESTIGATOR walks slowly down the line, trying to eyeball his suspect.  Concentrating on the shorter, dark-haired men in the line, he looks straight past JEROME. However, as the Investigator ignores him and walks by, we see a haunted look in Jerome's eyes. 
INT.  GATTACA - TESTING LAB.  DAY. 
Every available TECHNICIAN is working to accommodate the testing of the thousand or so PROGRAMMERS.  Twelve testing stations operate simultaneously.  A HOMICIDE DETECTIVE supervises each station.  JEROME reaches the head of the line.  He notes an exiting COLLEAGUE holding a cotton ball to his arm. 
A NURSE directs Jerome to LAMAR's testing station.  Lamar deposits the previous patient's labeled vial into a blood carousel under the watchful eye of a large DETECTIVE, clearly not relishing his assignment.  Jerome rolls up his sleeve. 
JEROME (referring to the table lined with syringes) What's with the plungers, Lamar?  What are you doing, opening a blood bank? 
The syringes are clearly not Lamar's idea. 
LAMAR (sarcastic) The gentlemen of law enforcement are concerned that my testing methods may have been compromised. 
Lamar inserts a fresh syringe into Jerome's arm.  As Lamar draws the blood, Jerome suddenly flinches and flexes his arm violently, causing the needle to bend and buckle, exiting the skin from a second puncture point. 
JEROME Damn!! 
Having pulled away from Lamar's grasp, Jerome withdraws the bent needle himself, blood still squirting from his vein. 
INVESTIGATOR (OC) Vincent!  Vincent! 
EXT.  MICHAEL'S.  NIGHT. 
The INVESTIGATOR is about to cry out Vincent's name once again when he realizes DETECTIVE HUGO and the other DETECTIVES are watching him, askance. 
INVESTIGATOR (to Hugo, covering his frustration) What are you waiting for? 
DETECTIVE HUGO Where do we start? 
INVESTIGATOR We'll vacuum these streets if we have to. 
DETECTIVE (handing the Investigator Irene's pill box) We caught them trying to flush these, Sir. 
The Investigator carefully examines the heart pills. 
EXT.  IRENE'S APARTMENT.  NIGHT. 
JEROME walks IRENE to the steps of her apartment.  Jerome thinks about departing but Irene takes him gently by the hand. 
IRENE So sure of what you can't do. 
Jerome follows her inside. 
INT.  IRENE'S BEDROOM.  NIGHT. 
JEROME and IRENE climb a staircase to her bedroom.  Without another word they begin to make love. 
LATER THAT NIGHT, JEROME cannot sleep.  He rises quietly so as not to disturb IRENE.  He silently opens the double-windows of the upstairs bedroom.  He carefully gathers his pillow from the bed and shakes it out of the window. 
Slowly Jerome turns to gaze at the wood floor.  In the moonlight we see an EXTREME CLOSE UP of a single hair lying on the floorboards.  Jerome bends and picks up the hair, trying to identify it in the dim light.  On his hands and knees he tries to clean the floor with a towel.  Irene turns over in the bed.  Jerome freezes but she continues to sleep.  He realizes he may be spreading even more of his skin and hair over the floor. Overcome with frustration and the enormity of his task, he begins to quietly weep. 
EXT.  A FIELD.  DAWN. 
A light shroud of mist hangs over the trees that encircle a grassy clearing beyond Irene's building.  Something lies in the center of the clearing. 
We jump-cut to an EXTREME CLOSE UP of two or three blades of grass.  Bristles rain down on the blades.  Withotu access to his incinerator, the crouched, naked figure of JEROME disposes of his whiskers, skin and hair in an open field.  His clothes sit in a neat pile at his side.  He pours glycolic acid over his body and scrubs at his back, feet and hands with a brush.  There is a haunted, tortured look in his eyes as he tries desperately to rid himself of himself. 
INT.  POOL.  MORNING. 
The INVESTIGATOR swims obsessively in his aquatic treadmill. 
INT.  IRENE'S APARTMENT.  LATER THAT MORNING. 
Back in the bedroom, JEROME, partially dressed, holds IRENE in bed.  She softly touches the scars on his shins. 
IRENE (referring to the shins) What happened? 
JEROME You remember the '99 Chrysler LeBaron? It's the exact height of the front fender. (shrugs) Looked right instead of left. 
IRENE (comforted by the thought) So you're not so smart after all. (awkward about raising the subject) I want you to know--if it ever came to it-- I'd be willing to get an ovum from the Egg Bank.  In fact, I'd rather use a donor egg-- (quickly covering herself again) --if it came to it. 
JEROME But "if it came to it" then it couldn't have your-- (searching for an appropriate body part) --nose. (stroking her face) How perfect does your child have to be? 
IRENE (mildly irritated by what she perceives as his mocking) You hypocrite.  Do you think for one moment you'd be doing what you're doing if it wasn't for who you are--what you are?  Don't you get any satisfaction knowing that your children will be able to live to a ripe old age unless they do something foolish? 
JEROME That's precisely what scaresme--that they won't do anything foolish or courageous or anything--worth a Goddamn. 
Irene is taken aback by Jerome's passion, regarding him in a new light. 
INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  MORNING. 
EUGENE urinates into a large plastic container while drinking bottled water at the same time.  He already has several other containers of urine on the table beside him. 
INT.  GATTACA.  MORNING. 
The INVESTIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO keep a wary eye on the outfitted DETECTIVES re-vacuuming the empty computer complex with their mini-vacs. 
The Investigator gently but firmly removes the phone from Irene's hand and replaces the receiver in the cradle. 
INVESTIGATOR Let's not spoil the surprise. (to Irene) I understand you can show us the way. 
The anxious Director Josef calls out to protest one further time but the Investigator is on his way out of the door. 
EXT.  STREET OUTSIDE GATTACA.  DAY. 
Outside the entrance to Gattaca, trying to hail a taxi, JEROME is startled to see a car carrying the INVESTIGATOR, DETECTIVE HUGO and IRENE roar out of the driveway.  JEROME calls on his portable wristphone. 
INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY. 
EUGENE, at his window, filling sachets as usual, hesitates before answering the phone. 
EUGENE Hello? 
JEROME (OC) How would you like to be yourself for the day? 
EUGENE (nonchalant) I was never very good at it, remember? 
INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM / HALLWAY.  DAY. 
With a look of resolve, EUGENE hangs up the phone. 
He wheels his chair up to the sweeping staircase and regards the first of many dozen steps.  The daunting staircase spirals away above him. 
INT.  INVESTIGATOR'S CAR.  DAY. 
HUGO drives.  The INVESTIGATOR looks to IRENE in the rear seat. 
INVESTIGATOR (taunting) You don't know who he is, do you, Irene? 
He hands her the pill box found in Michael's. 
INVESTIGATOR You think you have problems? 
INT.  EUGENE'S CONDO/JEROME'S CONDO.  DAY. 
Having wheeled his chair out of sight, EUGENE eases himself out of his wheelchair and onto the floor.  Using his elbows, commando-style, dragging his lifeless legs behind him, he proceeds to crawl across the floor and up the first step of the long spiral staircase.  We observe his agonizingly slow progress up a staircase that, from Eugene's point of view, appears to have doubled in length. 
EXT.  CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX.  DAY. 
The INVESTIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO emerge from their car with IRENE in tow.  They take in the impressive complex - the Investigator gets a glimpse of the empty pool.  They approach the intercom at the entrance. 
INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY. 
EUGENE, bathed in sweat, finally crests the landing of the staircase.  No respite.  As he drags himself across the floor the internal phone rings.  He frantically stretches up and knocks the phone off its hook so he can talk from his prone position on the floor. 
INT.  CONDOMINIUM - LOBBY.  DAY. 
IRENE is on the phone, closely watched by the INVESTIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO. 
EUGENE (OC) (through intercom, no trace of his distress) Hello. 
IRENE (a moment's hesitation) Jerome--? 
EUGENE Hello, sweatheart.  Come on up. 
INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY. 
With no mean effort, EUGENE finally manages to replace the phone on its cradle.  He desperately crawls up onto the sofa. However, spying the upright vacuum cleaner in the open closet, he is forced to crawl there and remove the vacuum bag.  He frantically crawls back towards the sofa and stuffs the bag behind a cushion. 
INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY. 
IRENE enters the door deliberately left ajar, closely followed by the INVESTIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO.  EUGENE is propped up on the sofa, TV remote control placed in his useless hand to cover his paralysis.  He has a stainless steel bowl next to him and has crossed his lifeless legs for a more natural effect.  Eugene calmy motions the confused Irene towards him. 
EUGENE Where's my kiss? 
INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY. 
JEROME, white as a ghost, climbs the stairs, emerging into his own condominium.  He embraces the beaming EUGENE, still sitting on the sofa. 
JEROME (numb) How are you, Jerome? 
EUGENE Not bad, Jerome. 
JEROME How the hell did you get here. 
EUGENE (deadpan) I could always walk.  I've been faking it. 
Jerome almost laughs, despite the situation.  Only now does he notice Irene on the other side of the room, her mind racing. She looks at Jerome and Eugene together and runs from the apartment. 
JEROME (calling after her) Irene. 
Jerome goes to follow but Eugene stops him. 
INT.  CRIME LABORATORY.  DAY. 
An EXTREME CLOSE UP of dried blood - brittle and cracking - on a pair of soiled latex gloves.  A latex head mask, suit of clothes and shoe covers are similarly caked.  The INVESTIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO watch as a white-coated FORENSIC TECHNICIAN feeds a minute sample of the dried blood into an analyzer. 
The INVESTIGATOR wanders over to a one-way glass window through which he can observe DIRECTOR JOSEF, sitting numb but strangely serene in an interrogation room.  The Investigator, in a state of shock himself, cannot yet bring himself to believe what is plainly obvious. 
INVESTIGATOR (gazing at the Director, struggling to come to grips with the turn of events) This can't be him. 
The Detective regards his superior incredulously, intrigued that he could still cling so stubbornly to his theory in the face of such overwhelming evidence. 
DETECTIVE HUGO (intrigued) We found his spit in the dead director's eye. He's signed a confession--supplied us with the suit he wore on the night.  What more do you want? 
INVESTIGATOR (a trace of desperation, grasping at straws) Luca could still be an accomplice. 
The Investigator turns away, unwilling or unable to accept the explanation.  Hugo regards the Investigator with a trace of sympathy.  He furtively retrieves the Investigator's tissue from the trash. 
INT.  GATTACA.  DAY. 
JEROME sits in a formal briefing room with the other CREW MEMBERS of his mission, receiving their final pre-flight instructions.  LAMAR looks on approvingly. 
MISSION COMMANDER --Finally, I'd like to welcome Navigator Morrow on his debut mission--if we get lost out there, nobody has a map of the heavens in his head like Jerome. 
Jerome looks up bashfully. 
MISSION COMMANDER (adopting a more serious tone) I'm gratified that there is no longer a cloud hanging over tomorrow's launch.  Now we can put this unpleasantness behind us and concentrate on the task at hand.  I don't have to tell you how important this mission is--the Belt could hold the key to the origin of life - why we are what we are. (injecting a note of levity) I know many of you have been asking that question about me for long enough. (referring to a projected photograph of a misshapen asteroid behind his head) Gaspra--how could something so ugly hold so many beautiful secrets? 
Polite smiles from his colleagues. 
MISSION COMMANDER Enjoy your final evening with your families. We'll all be a year older when they see us next.  And don't be late tomorrow.  You don't want to miss this. 
We focus on Jerome.  He appears to have his head in the heavens already. 
INT.  CRIME LAB.  NIGHT. 
The tormented INVESTIGATOR lies on the floor of his lab, staring at the ceiling.  he winces in discomfort.  He is lying on something.  He rolls over and retrieves the irritation from his pocket.  It is the "ESC" computer key he prized from Jerome's keyboard. 
He gazes at the key for a moment and then gets to his feet.  He resurrects an old fingerprint kit from a cupboard.  Carefully removing the key from the specimen bag - marked, "MORROW, Jerome" - he begins to dust it for a fingerprint. 
He places the key under a camera.  The enlarged print appears on the lefthand side of his computer screen.  The word "MATCH" blinks onto the screen.  However the face that appears from the computer's databank is not that of "MORROW, Jerome" but "LUCA, Vincent".  The Investigator regards the photograph in disbelief. 
DETECTIVE HUGO casually enters the lab, something odd in his nonchalant demeanor. 
INVESTIGATOR (excited) Hugo!  I've found him! 
HUGO I've found him too. 
INVESTIGATOR (not listening, referring to his discovery) A fingerprint.  There's something to be said for nostalgia. (realizing what Hugo has said) What did you find? 
Hugo puts a specimen bag on the counter.  It contains the Investigator's discarded tissue.  The Investigator does not recognize it. 
JEROME You almost sound like you believe that. 
ANTON (ignoring the remark, extending his hand) Come with me now, Vincent.  You've gone as far as you can go. 
JEROME (refusing Anton's hand, glancing to the telescope above them) There are a few million miles to go yet. 
ANTON (adamant) It's over. 
JEROME (shaking his head) Is that the only way you can succeed, Anton, to see me fail? 
ANTON It's for the best. 
JEROME (increasingly angered) God, even you want to tell me what I can't do. In case you hadn't noticed, Anton, I don't need rescuing.  But you did, once. 
Anton is clearly stung by the memory. 
JEROME (goading) Well?  You have all the answers.  How is that possible? 
ANTON (resolute) You didn't beat me that day.  I beat myself. 
JEROME Who are you trying to convince? 
ANTON (angry) I will prove it to you.  Come swim with me now, Vincent.  Now--tonight. 
Jerome regards Anton with a knowing smile.  Somewhere in Gattaca a phone rings. 
INT/EXT.  IRENE'S CAR OUTSIDE CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX.  NIGHT. 
IRENE, sitting in her car outside Jerome's condominium, hangs up her portable phone.  In her agitation, her finger involuntarily goes to her pulse.  She catches herself and removes the finger from her wrist as if it has burned her.  She exits the car. 
INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM/EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT. 
IRENE quietly knocks on Jerome's door but there is no response. Trying the handle, the door opens.  Her curiosity takes her inside.  All is quiet.  IRENE calls out. 
IRENE Hello. 
No reply.  Irene hesitantly ventures further, drawn to the spiral staircase.  She tentatively makes her way down the stairs and into Eugene's dimly lit condominium.  With wonder and reverence, she examines the instruments and samples laid out on Eugene's work benches.  She opens the refrigerator in the bathroom and inspects the samples and sachets.  Finally she regards the empty incinerator. 
EUGENE (OC) Quite something, isn't it? 
Irene turns. 
Eugene has entered through the mirrored door, not at all displeased by her unexpected visit. 
EUGENE (referring to the incinerator) That's where we get rid of the traces of him although we never truly succeeded. 
IRENE I've been looking for him.  Do you know where he is? 
EUGENE (unconcerned) He's probably leaving some more of me around the place before he goes. 
Eugene idly inspects one of the blood sachets. 
EUGENE Don't be deceived, Irene.  These are just the clothes.  He has to wear them. Something I could never do. 
IRENE What's wrong with him? 
EUGENE (sympathetic smile) You have more in common than you know. 
Irene's hand involuntarily goes to her heart. 
EUGENE But they say hisis already ten thousand beats overdue.  I have my doubts. (wry smile) For all my gifts, they could never engineer me a heart like Vincent's. 
Irene turns back to the incinerator, lost in though. 
EXT.  BEACH.  NIGHT. 
JEROME and ANTON walk down a dune together towards the beach not far from Gattaca - an ocean beach pounded by an angry, black sea.  Jerome picks up a sharp piece of shell and slices the end of his thumb.  A drop of blood oozes out.  He offers the shell to Anton but Anton does not take it. 
JEROME (awakening) A year is a long time. 
IRENE Not so long--just once around the sun. 
Jerome smiles.  For once Irene seems to be looking forward to the trip.  She exits the room. 
INT.  INCINERATOR.  MORNING. 
Inside the incinerator, JEROME scrapes away at himself - for the final time.  He wistfully regards the brush in his hand. 
INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  MORNING. 
JEROME, dressed for his departure, emerges down the spiral staircase into Eugene's condo.  Jerome notices several suitcases at the foot of the stairs. 
EUGENE wheels into the room. 
EUGENE I have your samples ready. 
JEROME (confused) Have you forgotten?  I don't need any samples where I'm going. 
EUGENE (meeting Jerome's gaze) No, but you might need them when you get back. 
Eugene wheels across the room and opens the mirrored door.  The water vapor billows out.  Jerome regards Eugene. 
Eugene leads Jerome inside for the first time. 
Inside are two rows of four identical, industrial refrigerators. They contain thousands of blood and urine specimens. 
Jerome regards them with awe and more than a little unease. 
EUGENE Everything you need to last you two lifetimes. 
EUGENE points out an extra specimen of semen in the first refrigerator. 
EUGENE There's an extra specimen.  I wish I could give it to her myself. (afterthought) But then, you always were better at being me. 
Eugene leads the way out of the refrigerator room. 
JEROME (struggling to come to terms with the discovery) Why have you done this? 
EUGENE (as he seals the mirrored door) In case you get back before I do. 
JEROME Where are you going? 
EUGENE (glancing to the suitcases) I'm travelling too. 
Jerome goes to question Eugene's travel plans but thinks better of it.  He kneels before his friend and embraces him. 
JEROME Thank you. 
EUGENE I got the better end of the deal.  I just lent you my body--you lent me your dream. 
Jerome smiles and hugs Eugene a final time.  Eugene stuffs an envelope into Jerome's pocket. 
EUGENE (referring to the note, glancing heavenwards) Not until you're upstairs. 
Jerome exits.  Eugene watches him go. 
INT.  GATTACA - DEPARTURE LOUNGE.  NIGHT. 
JEROME enters a large holding area along with his other eleven CREW MEMBERS. 
Jerome's heart sinks as he recognizes LAMAR, greeting the crew for one final unexpected substance test.  His colleagues groan good-naturedly but it is clearly far more than an inconvenience to Jerome.  He looks towards the door he has just entered but there is no way back.  One by one the crew are ushered behind a screen.  Before he can think of a way out, it is Jerome's turn.  He enters the cubicle. 
JEROME (as he takes the plastic cup from Lamar) What's this, Lamar? 
LAMAR New policy. 
