"GHOST" 
Screenplay by 
Bruce Joel Rubin 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
INT. TRIBECA LOFT - DAY 
The CAMERA TRACKS slowly through clouds of moving dust. Shafts of muted light pierce the dense atmosphere. An eerie netherworld envelops us. Strange ghostly forms appear and disappear in the distance. They seem like apparitions. 
Broken timbers and dangling cables emerge from the smoky light. We see hints of a huge demolished space. 
An old white plaster wall FILLS THE SCREEN. Momentary blips of light flash across it. SOUNDS of street traffic are heard dimly in the distance. 
With startling impact, the SOUND of a sledgehammer explodes out of nowhere. The wall shudders. 
HAMMER BLOWS assault the audience. They are loud and jarring. The wall buckles. 
Chunks of plaster CRASH to the floor. The air fills with new swirls of white dust. The SLEDGEHAMMER smashes INTO VIEW. Beams of sunlight cut through the cracks, piercing the atmosphere like searchlights in a fog. A huge section of wall falls toward camera as more plaster billows into the air. We hear voices talking. 
MOLLY (O.S.) What a mess! 
SAM (O.S.) I told you! 
Through jagged holes we can make out three dim figures on the other side of the wall, all wielding SLEDGEHAMMERS. 
SAM I can't breathe. 
MOLLY Use your mask, dummy. 
One of the figures adjusts something over his face. Isolated rays of sunlight dance around him casting long shadows in the air. 
SAM (singing) "Volga boat..., man." Whoomph! 
His hammer pounds the wall. Molly laughs. 
ANGLE 
The CAMERA MOVES IN and for the first time we see them. MOLLY JENSEN, in her late 20's, has a bandanna around her hair and a workman's mask over her nose, but we can tell from her eyes and cheekbones that she is beautiful. SAM WHEAT, in his late 30's, is also hidden behind a mask, but he has a strong forehead and handsome features. Sweat is dripping down his brow, leaving streaks in the dust. CARL BRUNER, early 30's, removes his mask revealing a good looking young man with a fashionable two-day stubble. Both men have their shirts off. 
CUT TO: 
ANGLE 
BLACKNESS AND A LOUD THUD. Suddenly a shaft of light penetrates the darkness. Another thud and more light. We see a hole. The hook of a crowbar enters it, grappling with something around the edges. Then, with a tug and a loud yank, a huge section of tin ceiling crashes to the floor. Huge clouds of dust fly into the air. Molly looks up, astonished. 
MOLLY Sam, look, there's a whole eight feet up there. 
SAM And about eighty years of dust. 
MOLLY We have all this height, Sam. We could add a second floor and put our bedroom upstairs. That would leave all this space. 
SAM (eyeing her curiously) For what? 
MOLLY For space. Just space. 
SAM Be great for bumper cars. 
Carl laughs as he looks at Sam. Their bodies, covered with white powder, appear as strange, ghostly figures. 
CARL Sam, this may be none of my business, but I'm concerned you're doing too much coke. 
Sam glances down at his white body. They all laugh. 
MOLLY Hey, Sam, turn around. 
Sam obeys. Molly doodles on his chest, drawing a bow tie and the outline of a tuxedo jacket. Her lines are quick, accomplished, and subtly erotic. 
CARL (offering his body) How 'bout me? 
Molly nods. She reaches out and superimposes an armless female torso over his. His stomach jumps sensually as she touches it. Molly pulls back to admire her work. He looks like a Greek statue. 
CARL I'll never wash again. 
Molly laughs. 
ANGLE 
Sam, Molly, and Carl are holding their sledgehammers. Molly begins to count. 
MOLLY All together now. One, (they strike the wall with their hammers. The wall shakes) two, (they pound again. The wall begins to give) three. 
In unison, they hit it once more. A massive section of plaster and metal topples to the ground. New clouds of dust fill the air. Suddenly, Sam spies an old jar lying on the floor. Something rattles inside it, a penny. 
SAM Hey, look what I found. There's a penny inside. (he hands it to Molly) For luck in our new loft. It's a good omen. 
SAM Listen, Dillon needs $900,000 in Albany by noon. Can you transfer it to his payroll account? 
CARL Sure. Just let me have your MAC code. 
Sam pulls out his wallet and extracts a small address book. He jots the code numbers on a piece of paper and hands it to Carl. 
SAM Discretion, huh? 
CARL You bet. I'll do it right away. 
INT. WELL-APPOINTED EXECUTIVE BOARDROOM - DAY 
Sam and a group of fifteen somber Japanese businessmen are sitting around a large granite conference table. Sam stands up and speaks a simple greeting to them. 
SAM (in Japanese) Good morning, Gentlemen. On behalf of Market Security Bank & Trust, I welcome you to our city. 
The men smile happily and nod their heads in unison. 
MEN Arigato. 
They look to Sam, expecting more. Uncomfortable, he clears his throat. 
SAM I'm afraid that's the only Japanese I know. But I realize it's not our language fluency, or lack of it, that brings you to Market Security. Rather, I'm sure, it is our banking expertise, our ability to represent and anticipate all of your banking needs. As you know, we are not the largest banking establishment in New York. (his throat goes dry and he takes a sip of water) But, with combined assets of over 200 billion dollars, we have a firm commitment to the international marketplace. 
A SECRETARY enters the room and hands Sam a piece of paper. It reads "MOLLY ON LINE 2. URGENT." She hands him a phone. 
Sam looks surprised. He nods apologetically to his guests. 
SAM Excuse me. (he picks up the receiver) Hello? 
CUT TO: 
MOLLY 
dressed in a long, clay covered smock. She is in a potters studio. SEVERAL OTHER POTTERS are in the background working at their wheels. A five-foot high ceramic vase stands beside Molly. It is still wet. She toys with it as she speaks into the phone. 
MOLLY A man and a woman are lying in bed when the woman's husband suddenly comes home. Frightened, she tells the man he has to leave instantly through the window. He has no time to dress. 
CUT BACK TO: 
SAM 
straight-faced, listening and trying to look as if it is important. 
SAM Uh hmm. 
MOLLY (V.O.) It's raining outside. The man, running naked along the street, sees some joggers approaching. 
The entire contingent of Japanese men is staring at Sam. 
MOLLY (V.O.) (continuing) One of the joggers calls out. "Hey, do you always go jogging naked?" And the man says, "Yes, always." 
SAM Okay. 
MOLLY (V.O.) And then the other jogger says, "And do you always wear a condom?" The man looks down, embarrassed, and replies, "Only when it's raining." 
Sam squelches a smile. 
SAM Well, that's just fine. 
MOLLY (V.O.) Now just relax and have fun, okay? It's not the end of the world if you lose this account. You've always got me. 
SAM Thank you. I'll remember that. 
MOLLY (V.O.) See ya. 
He hangs up and stares at the Japanese men. A short smile crosses his face. 
CUT TO: 
A CARVED WOODEN ANGEL 
eight feet tall, ascending into an afternoon sky. As the CAMERA PULLS BACK we see that we are inside a building and that the angel is dangling outside an open doorway high above the street. 
A group of workmen grab for the angel, but have difficulty bringing it in. Suddenly Molly steps INTO the FRAME. 
MOLLY Where you guys from, the New York City Ballet? 
With a gutsy maneuver, Molly leans out over the sidewalk and tries to grab hold of the ropes. She can't reach them. Suddenly a pair of hands grabs her around the waist. She screams. 
SAM Saved your life. 
Sam laughs as he pulls her back into the loft. She does not think it is funny. 
MOLLY You bastard. Don't do that to me. You scared me half to death. 
SAM Better than seeing this gorgeous body splattered all over the street. Here, look out. 
INT. MOLLY'S STUDIO - NIGHT 
Molly, dressed only in a T-shirt, is sitting at her potters wheel throwing a series of pots. Sam enters the studio. He is barefoot, shirtless, wearing jeans. 
SAM What are you doing? 
MOLLY I felt inspired. 
SAM At 2:00 am? 
She nods and presses her hands into a pot that is forming in front of her. Sam watches the sensual movement of her fingers, molding and forming the clay. She is forceful, assured, gifted. The clay responds to her slightest effort. Slowly, almost unconsciously, Sam reaches for her shoulders and begins kissing them. 
SAM (continuing) You notice Carl's eyes today? They were all over you. 
MOLLY What? Are you jealous? Sam, let me tell you something. He's not even looking at me. It's you he idolizes. He doesn't see me at all... Anyway, he's not my type. 
Sam reaches over her and gently adds his fingers to the clay. Molly looks up at him. 
MOLLY (continuing) What are you doing? 
SAM I feel inspired. 
His hands dig into the clay. Molly smiles. Their fingers seem to dance together. After a moment, she reaches up to him, her clay-covered fingers streaking his face and curving down to his chest. Sam grins and reaches down to her. 
MATCH CUT TO: 
SAM'S FINGER 
as it presses two buttons on his jukebox. We watch as the mechanical arm selects a record and slowly, sensuously, lowers it to the turntable. The arm hovers over the record and then descends. It begins to play. The song is "Unchained Melody" by the Righteous Brothers. 
SAM AND MOLLY 
are dancing in the middle of the dark loft. Moonlight pours through the windows and shines off the floor. Wads of packing paper swirl sensuously around their feet. 
Molly runs her fingers down Sam's naked back. The moment is sweet and erotic. We watch as Sam slowly draws his fingers down over Molly's face, gently caressing her forehead, her eyes, her lips. 
Sam slides his hands under Molly's T-shirt, slowly moving them toward her breasts. Her breathing slows. They dance silently, her hair swaying in the soft light. 
We hear the sounds of their bare feet on the highly polished floor. 
Sensuously, Molly's shirt lifts above her navel as Sam presses into her. Their stomachs touch and part and touch again. She bites her lip. Sam eyes her moonlit form as she strokes his chest, slowly moving her fingers down his torso, around the curve of his hips, and then digging into the back of his jeans. 
Sam leans into Molly and nips at her neck. She stops dancing. Her eyes close. She stands absolutely still. Sam's hands move to her backside. He pulls her closer. 
DISSOLVE: 
LIVINGROOM - NIGHT 
SAM AND MOLLY, making love on the livingroom carpet. Paper and packing materials crumble beneath them and scatter across the floor. For all their sensuality, it is their hands and eyes that are most expressive, revealing a tenderness that is deeply moving. Their lovemaking is full of love. 
JUKEBOX 
The song ends. The jukebox arm retracts and gently slides the record back into its slot. 
DISSOLVE: 
OMITTED 
BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Sam and Molly are lying together silently. Molly gazes at him. 
MOLLY What's the matter? 
SAM The matter? 
MOLLY I can tell. 
SAM Nothing... really. 
MOLLY You're worried, aren't you? About moving in together? 
SAM No. Not really. 
MOLLY Then what? The promotion? 
SAM I don't know. A lot of things. I just don't want the bubble to burst... Whenever something good happens to me I'm just afraid I'm going to lose it. 
Molly gently strokes his head. 
MOLLY You know what? 
SAM What? 
MOLLY I love you. I really love you. 
He smiles and strokes her cheek. 
SAM Molly, the "New York Times" is some frustrated little critic with pimples on his ass who flunked out of art school. Who cares what The New York Times thinks? 
MOLLY Eight million readers, that's who. 
SAM Your work's beautiful. That's a fact, Moll. It doesn't matter what anyone thinks. 
We can tell from the expression on Molly's face that it does. Sam puts his arm around her. She nestles close to him. Then, suddenly, she stops and looks up. There is an unexpected seriousness in her voice. 
MOLLY (continuing) I want to marry you, Sam. 
SAM (taken aback) What? 
MOLLY I've been thinking about it for days. More than thinking. I want to do it. I want to jump in whole hog... (she pauses) What is that look for? 
SAM (staring at her) It's just been so long since... I mean, you never wanted to talk about it. 
There is a long pause. 
MOLLY Do you love me, Sam? 
SAM What do you think, Moll? 
MOLLY How come you never say it? 
SAM What are you talking about? 
MOLLY You say "ditto". It's not the same. 
SAM People say "I love you" all the time. It doesn't mean anything. 
MOLLY Sometimes you need to hear it. 
Sam stops and stares at Molly. He pauses quietly. He is about to speak when A MAN'S FACE emerges from the shadows behind him. Molly gasps. Sam spins around. 
AN INTENSE LOOKING MAN 
is standing in the darkness between two buildings. He stares at the couple for a moment and then steps onto the sidewalk. Sam and Molly stand motionless. The man hesitates and then begins walking the other way. Molly exhales a deep breath. 
Sam takes Molly's arm and they continue briskly down the street. Suddenly they hear FOOTSTEPS coming after them. 
MOLLY What should we do? 
SAM Let me handle this. 
Sam stops abruptly and turns around. A gun is staring him in the face. Molly screams. 
WILLIE Your wallet! 
Sam waits a beat. 
MOLLY Give it to him! 
Sam reaches for his jacket. The Mugger grabs his wrist and then carefully pulls the wallet out himself. 
SAM Take the money. Just leave the wallet and my... 
He swipes Sam across the head. Molly screams. The Mugger whacks her across the face. Sam explodes, plowing into the mugger with all his might. 
MOLLY Sam, No! 
There is a wild, all out brawl. Sam fights like a mad man. Suddenly the GUN goes off. The Mugger panics and takes off running. Sam charges after him. 
MOLLY Sam!!!!! 
The two men run down the dark street, but the Mugger is already a full block ahead and disappears into the shadows. 
Sam gives up. Slowly he turns and begins walking back toward Molly. 
We can see Molly dimly at the end of the block as Sam approaches. She is screaming for help. Frightened, Sam calls out. 
SAM Molly! 
She doesn't answer. Sam tenses and starts running toward her. He is just three feet away when suddenly he stops. An expression of pure terror overwhelms his face. 
CUT TO: 
CLOSEUP - MOLLY 
drenched in blood. Her eyes are glazed, on the verge of shock. Panting, she stoops down to the curb as THE CAMERA TRAVELS WITH HER. She grabs hold of something lying in the shadows and pulls it toward her. 
It is Sam's dead body she is holding in her arms. 
Sam's ghostly form, still solid to all appearances, stands beside Molly. His eyes are awash in horror and confusion. He seems unable to move. THE CAMERA HOLDS on his face as the full impact of his situation dawns in his eyes. 
Suddenly he lets out a blood-curdling scream. 
SAM No!!!!!! 
Molly holds the sweater tenderly and presses it to her cheek. After a moment she puts it back. Then, in a surprising outburst, she cries out and begins flailing at the shelves. Everything comes flying off. Sam reaches out to console her. 
SAM (continuing) Molly, don't. 
Unexpectedly, Carl comes rushing into the room. He takes hold of Molly and sits her on the bed. 
SAM (continuing) Say something. Help her, Carl. 
CARL It's hard. It's very hard. 
SAM (sarcastic) Oh good. That's really good. 
CUT TO: 
OMITTED 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
Molly and Carl are standing over the kitchen table folding piles of Sam's clothes and placing them into boxes. As Molly lifts one of Sam's jackets, something falls from a side pocket. It is his small black leather address book. Sam stares at it with recognition. Carl sees the book fall and stoops to pick it up but Molly gets it first. 
MOLLY Sam's address book. 
She skims through it a moment, but the memories it evokes are too powerful for her. She places it carefully into a box labeled "Sam's Things -- Valuable" and continues packing. She finds the old jar with the penny in it. It's marked "For Luck". She holds it tenderly for a moment and then places it on the nightstand beside the bed. 
Carl discovers some old ticket stubs in another of Sam's jackets. He examines them. 
CARL Dave Brubeck. Newport '86. Should I toss 'em? 
MOLLY No! 
SAM Molly, we hated that concert. 
She takes the stubs and lovingly puts them in the box. Sam groans. 
Carl finds a half used package of Rolaids. Molly takes them from his hand and puts them in the box, too. 
CARL Oh, you want to save those? 
SAM Rolaids? What are you doin' Moll? 
Molly just stares for a moment. 
MOLLY I miss him, Carl. 
Carl comes over and takes her hand. 
CARL We all do. 
Molly buries her head on his shoulder. Carl strokes her hair. 
CUT TO: 
ANGLE 
Carl lifting a pile of boxes and carrying them to the door. Suddenly Molly yells out. 
MOLLY Wait. Wait. Not that one. 
She hurries over and pulls the "Valuable" box from the stack in his arms. He looks at it with surprise. 
CARL Oh, shit. I'm sorry. I don't know how that got in there. 
He turns to the door and then back to Molly. 
CARL (continuing) Hey, Moll. Why don't you come? It's like summer outside. 
MOLLY No. 
CARL Just for a stroll. It'd be good to get out. 
Molly shakes her head and turns away. 
MOLLY I can't do it Carl. 
Carl, annoyed, walks over to her. 
CARL Molly... you're not the one who died! 
Molly stops and looks at him. He has struck home. After a moment she nods her head. 
MOLLY Okay. Just a short walk. 
He gently squeezes her shoulders. 
CARL Thata girl. 
Before Sam even understands what is happening, they are exiting the loft. Sam jumps up and runs after them. 
EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY 
The Mugger steps out onto the sidewalk and hurries toward the subway. A patch of sleeve soaks up the blood from his eye. 
Sam starts after the man but instantly freezes. Hordes of people crowd the sidewalk. The crush of humanity is frightening. Two lovers, holding hands, are coming right at him. Before Sam is able to move, we hear the sound of their arms cutting through his ghostly form. 
Sam tries instinctively to dodge the crowds but people approach him from all angles. 
We hear a BABY CARRIAGE roll through Sam's feet and he nearly falls over trying to avoid it. His instincts will not let go. 
A barrage of images and SOUNDS assaults Sam. It is more than he can handle. Still, he refuses to give up. He stays close to the Mugger. 
EXT. NEW YORK SUBWAY STATION - DAY 
The Mugger heads down a flight of steps into the IRT. 
INT. SUBWAY TRAIN - DAY 
The Mugger gets onto a crowded subway car. Sam stands near a corner of the train watching him. 
Suddenly, Sam notices that something odd is happening. One of the riders at the other end of the car is walking toward him. As he approaches the Mugger, he does not stop, but passes right through him. It takes Sam a moment to realize what is happening, but then it is too late. 
ANGLE - THE OTHER GHOST 
With unholy fury the New Ghost charges into Sam. The attack is so unexpected and ferocious that Sam has no sense of how to defend himself. With unexpected power, the Ghost grabs hold of him and slams him into the subway door. Sam's head plows right through it. 
ANGLE 
on Sam's head sticking outside of the car as the subway tunnel rushes past him. There is a panicked look on his face. The look intensifies as he turns and sees another train barreling down on him. 
ANGLE 
on Sam's body inside the car still struggling with the Ghost as the other train shoots by the window. With a huge gasp, Sam shoots back into the car, and wrests himself free of the Ghost's hold. The Ghost flies after him, screeching. 
Sam surges through the door at the end of the train and finds himself on the bridge between the subway cars. The subway Ghost stares at him through the window with a wild, insane look. 
GHOST Stay off! This is mine! 
ANGLE FAVORING WINDOW 
With shocking impact, the Ghost's fist goes flying into the window. To Sam's terror and amazement, the window SHATTERS. The Ghost smiles. Passengers scream and Sam dives for cover. Sam stares at the broken glass with fascination and confusion. Suddenly, the train moves from the darkness of the tunnel into broad daylight. 
EXT. ELEVATED SUBWAY STATION - DAY 
The train stops at an elevated subway platform in Brooklyn. 
OMITTED 
SAM'S P.O.V. 
Sam sees the Mugger exiting the train and frantically rushes after him. 
EXT. BROOKLYN STREETS - DAY 
Sam follows the Mugger down a long covered staircase to the street. 
EXT. 321 PROSPECT PLACE - DAY 
The Mugger heads toward 321 Prospect Place. The streets are lined with old apartment buildings. Many windows are boarded up. TWO MEN, standing on the corner, are slamming a piece of heavy machinery onto the pavement. 
Sam hears GOSPEL MUSIC coming from a storefront church and notices a sign, "SISTER ODA MAE BROWN, MEDIUM, SPIRIT READER, ADVISOR." He looks up to a third story window and sees a similar sign with day-glo arrows pointing to the entrance on the street. He seems curious, but then realizes that the Mugger is nearly halfway down the block. He turns and rushes after him. 
EXT. 321 PROSPECT PLACE - DAY 
Sam and the mugger approach a tenement building at 321 Prospect Place. 
INT. TENEMENT HALLWAY - DAY 
Sam follows the Mugger into the building and watches as he opens the mail box for APT. 4D. The name scribbled across it is WILLIE LOPEZ. There's no mail. 
INT. WILLIE'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Sam enters Willie's apartment. It is a squalid affair. Peeled paint chips litter the floor. The bed is unmade. 
Willie pulls open a drawer in a small nightstand and drops in the keys to Molly's loft. Sam sees his wallet. His driver's license, bank ID, and a photo of Molly are there, too. Furious, Sam lunges for Willie but then holds his punch, knowing it will have no effect. He turns instead to a window and, like the Ghost on the subway, smashes it with his fist. Nothing happens. 
SAM Damn! 
Willie dials the phone. Someone comes on the line. 
WILLIE She came home. I couldn't get it. Give me a couple of days. I'll go back. 
He hangs up. Sam stares at him in wild confusion. 
SAM Get what? Who the hell are you? What were you doing at Molly's? What the hell's going on? 
Willie grabs a bottle of wine from the nightstand and lies down. After a moment he reaches over and takes Molly's photo from the drawer. He studies it slowly. 
SAM (sarcastic) Oh my God... 
Oda Mae's eyes dart uncomfortably around the room. 
ODA MAE I'm afraid this is gonna be too hard. Now I got two souls I gotta contact. I don't know about that. It's difficult, you know. The pain. The effort. 
MRS. SANTIAGO I pay more. How much? How much? 
ODA MAE Twenty dollars. 
SAM Way to go. Milk her for every penny. 
Oda Mae jumps up and stares at her sisters. They look back at her curiously. They can't figure out what's wrong. Neither can Oda Mae. 
Mrs. Santiago reaches into her purse. A twenty dollar bill changes hands. Sam watches, amazed at it all. Oda Mae sits down and goes back into her trance. Her eyeballs roll up into their sockets. 
CLARA/LOUISE Praise the Lord. Thank you, Jesus. 
Oda Mae is beginning to shake again. The two women grab her shoulders to keep her from falling out of the chair. Suddenly her whole body stiffens. 
CLARA/LOUISE (continuing) Have mercy! Have mercy! 
Mrs. Santiago stares on in amazement. After a moment Oda Mae's body collapses in a heap. Then, like a phoenix rising from the ashes, she pulls herself up in her chair and assumes a normal pose. 
After several seconds to get her bearings, Oda Mae begins to speak. Only now she has an entirely new voice. It sounds deep and hoarse, like an old man's. For all its put on theatricality, it is strangely convincing. 
ODA MAE Welcome, Rosa Santiago. You are fortunate today. The channel is clear. Many spirits are gathering. 
SAM (scanning the room) Yeah? Where? 
Oda Mae jerks. Her eyes dart nervously around the room. 
MRS. SANTIAGO My husband? 
ODA MAE (a bit uneasy) I can feel his vibration. Yes, yes, he is drawing toward us now. I can see him coming. 
MRS. SANTIAGO Julio! Julio! How is he? How does he look? 
ODA MAE Oh, he is a very handsome man. 
MRS. SANTIAGO (surprised) Handsome? 
ODA MAE In our Father's Kingdom we are all handsome. 
MRS. SANTIAGO (understanding) Julio! 
Sam looks on dismayed. 
ODA MAE He is standing before me. He is wearing a black suit. 
MRS. SANTIAGO A black suit? Oh yes, yes. He was buried in that. 
Mrs. Santiago begins to cry. Sam looks around the room with growing disgust. Then he leans over to Oda Mae and yells into her ear. 
SAM What a crock of shit! 
Oda Mae nearly falls off her chair. She spins around. 
ODA MAE Who's there? 
Sam is stunned. Clara and Louise look at one another in total confusion. This is obviously not part of the act. Mrs. Santiago seems frightened. 
ODA MAE (continuing) Where are you? 
SAM (looking around) Who? 
Oda Mae screams and jumps up thrashing at the air. Her knee kicks the table and sends it toppling. Mrs. Santiago is terrified. 
MRS. SANTIAGO Julio! Julio! 
SAM What's going on? 
ODA MAE Get out of here! Leave me alone! 
Mrs. Santiago doesn't know what to do. She begins to cry. 
SAM Who are you talking to? 
Clara runs up to Oda Mae. 
ODA MAE Keep him away! 
Louise looks at the empty room. 
SAM Are you talking to me? 
ODA MAE Do something. Help me. 
ODA MAE (V.O.) I got a message from Sam. 
MOLLY (stunned) What? 
ODA MAE (V.O.) Sam Wheat. He asked me to call. 
Molly slams down the receiver, panting. For several seconds she doesn't move. Slowly, she walks to the couch and sits down. She is trembling. 
INT. ODA MAE'S KITCHEN - DAY 
Oda Mae hangs up the phone. 
ODA MAE What'd I tell you. 
SAM You gotta go there. 
ODA MAE Look, I don't care what you do to me, I'm not goin' nowhere. 
INT. ODA MAE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Sam is sitting on the edge of Oda Mae's bed, singing. It sounds like he's been singing for hours. He is very hoarse. 
SAM "I'm Henery the Eighth I am / Henery the Eighth I am, I am / I'm gettin' married to the widow next door / She's been married seven times before / And every one was an Henery / Wouldn't take a Willie or a Sam / I'm her eighth old man I'm Henery / Henery the Eighth I am, I am / Henery the Eighth I am / Second verse same as the first / I'm Henery the Eighth I am..." 
Oda Mae bolts upright in her bed, her hands over her ears. 
ODA MAE Okay! Okay! I'll go. You just shut your mouth. 
EXT. NEW YORK CITY BUS - ESTABLISHING SHOT - DAY 
INT. BUS - DAY 
Sam and Oda Mae are sitting at the rear of a crowded bus. She appears to be talking to herself. 
ODA MAE I can't believe I'm doin' this. I gotta be a crazy lady goin' into the city with you. I never go there. What the hell you doin' in my life, huh? Why me? 
Several people move away. 
OMITTED 
EXT. LOFT BUILDING - DAY 
Oda Mae approaches the loft building and buzzes Molly's apartment. She waits a few moments. 
ODA MAE There's nobody there. 
SAM Just wait. 
ODA MAE No, sir. I did what I promised. I said I'd come and I'm here. I didn't say anything 'bout waitin'. 
SAM Just one more time. Please. It's a big place. 
Oda Mae turns to leave. Sam, desperate, starts to sing. 
SAM (continuing) "Ninety-nine bottles of beer on the wall, ninety nine bottles of beer," 
Oda Mae stops. She turns back to the buzzer and rings once more. Suddenly Molly answers. 
MOLLY (V.O.) Hello, who's there? 
ODA MAE (nervous) Don't go away. It's Oda Mae Brown. I called you last night. Your friend Sam says you gotta talk to me. 
There is a CLICK as Molly hangs up. 
INT. LOFT - DAY 
Molly walks away from the intercom, shaken. Suddenly we hear Oda Mae yelling up from the street. 
ODA MAE (O.S.) Hey you, Molly! You gotta listen to me! this is for real. Sam is here. He needs to talk to you. 
Molly walks over to the window and looks down. Oda Mae is standing in the street looking up. She is calling out at the top of her lungs. Molly pulls back. She is afraid. 
ODA MAE (O.S.) (continuing) He says remember the starfish at Montego Bay? Remember the picture he took a' you in Reno? (pause) Remember his green underwear, the pair you wrote your name on? She wrote her name on 'em? 
Molly tenses. There is a sign of recognition in her eyes. 
EXT. TRIBECA STREET - DAY 
Oda Mae is standing by the curb and shouting up to Molly's fifth floor window. Several people stare at her curiously. She turns to them. 
ODA MAE Hey, do you mind? This here's a private conversation. 
The people turn away. She turns back to the window. Sam prompts her. 
SAM Ask her about the sweater in the closet, the one she knitted that's too big. 
ODA MAE What about the sweater you knitted that was too big? 
ODA MAE Cause he's stuck, that's why. He's between worlds. It happens sometimes, when their spirits get out too quick. He thinks he still has stuff t'do down here. 
SAM Come on Oda Mae, stop rambling. 
ODA MAE Oh, oh, now he's got an attitude. 
Molly stares at Oda Mae. 
SAM I do not have an attitude. 
ODA MAE (to Molly) We're having a discussion. (back to Sam) Whataya mean, you're not angry? If you weren't angry you wouldn't be raisin' your voice like that. 
SAM Goddamn it, Oda Mae! 
ODA MAE Ah ah, baby. That does it. I don't talk to anybody who takes the Lord's name in vain. 
She stands up, as if to leave. Molly watches with growing discomfort as Oda Mae seems to be talking to herself. 
SAM Relax, Oda Mae. 
ODA MAE You relax. You're the dead one. You want my help, then you apologize. Nobody talks to me like that, understand? 
SAM Jesus Christ! 
ODA MAE (to Molly) Excuse me, girl. Time for me to go. 
Oda Mae heads for the door. Molly is confused. 
MOLLY I don't believe I'm watching this. 
SAM Damn it. All right. I apologize. 
Oda Mae stops, pauses a moment, and walks back to the couch. Sam, relieved, paces back and forth. 
Oda Mae's eyes follow his voice as Molly watches her curiously. 
SAM (continuing) Please, Oda Mae, I need you to tell Molly what I'm saying. You gotta tell her word for word. 
ODA MAE Monsieur has a message for you. 
SAM Molly, you're in danger. 
ODA MAE You can't tell her like that. And would you stop movin' all over the place? You're makin' me sick. 
Molly looks concerned. Sam leans into Oda Mae. 
SAM Say it! 
ODA MAE He's sayin' you're in danger. 
MOLLY Danger?... What do you mean? 
SAM I know the man who killed me. Willie Lopez. I know where he lives. 
ODA MAE He says he knows the man who killed him, Willie Lopez. He's Puerto Rican. 
Molly grows pale as she listens. Her forehead tightens. 
SAM Write it down. 
ODA MAE Write it down. 
SAM You do it! 
ODA MAE Now I'm a secretary. 
Oda Mae takes a card from her purse and grabs a pencil. 
SAM 321 Prospect Place. Apartment 4D. 
ODA MAE 321? Hey, that's my neighborhood. 
Oda Mae seems perplexed as she writes it down and gives it to Molly. 
SAM Molly, he's got my wallet and my key. He was in here. 
ODA MAE He's got his wallet and key. He was in here. 
MOLLY In here? 
SAM (directly to Molly) You have to go to the police. The Mugger wasn't acting alone. It was a setup, Moll. I was murdered. 
ODA MAE He says he was set up, that he was murdered. He wants you to go to the police. 
Molly stands up, afraid. Oda Mae stands up, too. 
ODA MAE (continuing) I'm sorry. I don't want nothin' to do with this. 
WILLIE What the hell are you talking about? I haven't said a word. 
Sam is staggered. His body is shaking. 
CARL She knows your name, goddamn it! She knows where you live! 
WILLIE A lot of women know where I live. 
Carl is fuming. 
CARL This isn't a joke, man. You find that bitch, whoever she is, and... get rid of her, you hear me? I've got four million dollars stuck in that fucking computer. If I don't get those codes, if that money's not transferred soon, I'm dead. If I lose Balistrari's money, we're both dead. 
WILLIE Tell him you only wash dirty money on the first of the month. 
CARL What is wrong with you? Is everything a joke? You were supposed to steal his wallet. You weren't supposed to kill him. Was that a joke? 
WILLIE (casually) I did you a favor. Freebee. 
CARL Jesus! (sickened) These are drug dealers, man. (pause) Don't blow this for me, Willie. I've risked my job here. I could go to jail. A hundred thousand of that money goes to me. Now give me Sam's key. I'll get that address book myself. 
Willie goes to the desk drawer and takes out Sam's key. Sam, unable to control himself, explodes in a fit of rage. Hauling back, he slugs Carl with all his might. His fist has no impact. 
SAM You killed me, Carl. You had me killed. Look what you've done to me! Look what you've done! 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Carl is on the street heading back to his car. Sam is beside him, yelling right into his face. 
He is screaming and cursing at the top of his lungs but Carl doesn't hear him. 
SAM You fucker! You mother fucker! I had a life, Goddamn you. I had a life! 
From the distance, we see Sam smashing into Carl. It is like hitting the air. For all of his rage and bluster, there is nothing he can do. 
EXT. LOFT BUILDING - DAY 
Molly, neatly dressed, exits her building and hails a cab. She hops inside. Seconds later she hops out again, yelling. 
MOLLY You white fascist bigot. Who do you think you are? Bed Stuy's part of New York, you know. This is America. 
The driver speeds off. Molly gives him the finger. 
EXT. BROOKLYN STREETS - ELEVATED TRAIN - DAY 
Molly exits a subway station and walks toward 131st Street. She is the only white woman on the block and heads turn as she passes. 
WOMAN Hey, Snow, you lost or sumpin'? 
Molly pays no attention. Children run up to her, stare, and run away. 
TRACKING SHOT 
When Molly turns down 131st Street, the crowds disperse and she is all alone. There is a sense of menace in the air. A group of young men sitting on a stoop watches as she walks by. One of them whistles. Molly keeps walking. 
EXT./INT. WILLIE'S BUILDING 
Molly sees Willie's building. She walks into the dank lobby. It is dark and full of shadows. Leaning close, she examines the mail boxes. Willie's name is there. She backs away, afraid. 
INT. LIVINGROOM - DAY 
A dresser drawer opens and a box labeled "Sam's Things -- Valuable" is slowly pulled out. A hand reaches inside it and extracts Sam's address book. As THE CAMERA PULLS BACK, we see that it is Carl standing in Molly and Sam's livingroom. Carl opens the book and quickly jots down a series of code numbers he finds in the back. His eyes sparkle with excitement. 
INT. POLICE STATION - DETECTIVE'S OFFICE - DAY 
Molly is sitting in a room opposite DETECTIVE SERGEANT THOMAS BEIDERMAN, 48, and SERGEANT DOROTHY WALLACE, 29. Both officers are staring at her as she speaks. She seems very uncomfortable. 
MOLLY Look, you've gotta believe me. I don't even believe this stuff, myself. But this is real. Do you think I'd come here if it wasn't real? You told me to come if I had any new information. Well, here I am. 
The officers don't respond. 
MOLLY (continuing) Don't look at me like that. You guys use psychics all the time. 
There is dead silence. 
MOLLY (continuing) Damn it. I know how this sounds. I hear myself saying it and I want to cringe. But this woman knew things she couldn't have known, intimate details. 
WALLACE How intimate? 
MOLLY Things Sam only said to me. 
WALLACE (smirking) Okay, let me get this straight. According to this psychic lady, there are ghosts and spirits all over the place, watching us all the time, huh?... (she stands up) I'm sorry. I've got important things to do. 
She leaves the room. Molly gives her a dirty look and turns to Beiderman. 
MOLLY I'm telling you. The killer's name is Willie Lopez. I've got his address. You've got to check it out. 
Sgt. Beiderman gets up and looks over to Molly. 
Molly, in a short terrycloth robe, is sitting in a chair. A magazine is on her lap but she is staring vacantly into the loft. She seems lost in the vast space. Sam is pacing back and forth. There is a melancholy look in his eyes. 
SAM Why can't you hear me, Molly? I need you. 
Suddenly the BELL rings. Molly jumps. 
Molly's finger is on the intercom. She seems unsettled. 
MOLLY Who's there? 
CARL Molly, it's Carl. Can I come up? 
Sam freezes. Molly is surprised. She hesitates a moment and then pushes the buzzer to let him in. We hear Carl bounding up the stairs. 
SAM Don't open it. He's a murderer, Moll! 
There is a KNOCK. Molly opens the door. Carl seems buoyant, almost celebratory. He has a bag of fruit in his hand. He is still in a suit and tie. 
CARL Hi. Thanks. I know it's late. I'm sorry to disturb you. I felt bad about last night. This supernatural stuff just makes me so uncomfortable. I don't even read horoscopes. 
MOLLY Don't worry. It's okay. 
CARL No it's not. You needed me to hear you and I didn't and that was wrong. I want you to know that I'm your friend, Moll. 
SAM You were never our friend. 
CARL (holding out a paper bag) Hey, I brought you some Japanese apple pears. I know you like them. 
MOLLY (taking the bag) Oh, that's so sweet. 
CARL Listen, can I come in for a minute? I won't stay long. I've had one of those days. Maybe a cup of coffee? 
SAM No, Moll. Don't do it. Don't let him in! 
MOLLY (hesitating) Sure. 
OMITTED 
INT. LIVINGROOM - NIGHT 
Carl, in shirt sleeves and Molly in her robe, are sitting on the couch drinking coffee. We notice that Carl is wearing yellow suspenders. Sam is beside himself, watching them. 
MOLLY Are you alright? You look nervous, upset. 
CARL (glancing at her thighs) What can I tell you. It's been tough. Hell, you know. It still hurts so much. (he poses sadly) Then on top of it all... it's the responsibilities. They've given me my own accounts, but I've had no time to adjust. My mind has been reeling. 
Molly reaches out and pats his arm. There is an awkward pause. 
CARL (continuing) Where were you this morning? I thought you were coming to the bank to sign those papers. 
MOLLY I didn't have time. (beat) I went to the police, Carl. 
Sam looks at her, amazed. Carl, on the other hand, stiffens. He laughs nervously. 
CARL You're kidding. You really did it? I don't believe... What did you tell them? What did they say? 
MOLLY You were right, you know. I felt like such a fool. They brought out a file on this psychic woman ten inches thick. It was awful. 
CARL (relieved) A ripoff artist, huh? 
SAM (shocked) Molly, no. 
MOLLY The sad part is that I believed her. I believed her, Carl. (pause) It was all a sham. 
CARL (relaxing) Sometimes we need to believe. 
MOLLY Why?... I was a fool. I don't believe anything anymore. Why would people do such things? 
Sam is devastated. 
CARL (milking it) It's hard to face reality, Moll, the hard cold facts of it. What you have to remember is the love you felt. That's what's real. You have to remember how good Sam was. How much he loved you. 
Molly holds back tears. Carl reaches out tenderly and strokes her hair. 
CARL (continuing) You were everything to him, Molly. You were his life. 
MOLLY (finally crying) I feel so alone. 
CARL You're not alone. You're young. You've got so much talent. You're fantastically gorgeous. 
MOLLY (appreciating his words) Oh God, I don't know what's real anymore. I don't know what to think. 
CARL Just think about Sam. Think about what he meant to you, the years you had together, how wonderful they were. 
Carl glides his hand slowly, lovingly across her cheek. 
CARL (continuing) Let your feelings out. 
With surprising energy, the Ghost flicks a bottle cap and sends it shooting across the subway platform. 
GHOST (continuing) It's all in the anger. You gotta direct it. You gotta channel it. 
SAM I'm angry all the time. It doesn't do a thing. 
GHOST Cause you're angry all over. You gotta be angry here, in the pit of your stomach. Bring it down here. Let it explode. (he makes an explosive gesture) It's like a reactor, you know. Pow! 
He kicks a Coke can toward Sam. Sam tries to kick it back and misses. The Ghost laughs. Sam gets angry. He tries again and falls on his head. The Ghost laughs louder. Now Sam is really angry. We see him forcing the anger down into his stomach. He holds still for a moment and then kicks at the can with all his might. To his shock and amazement, it sails right through the Ghost's head. The Ghost smiles. 
SAM I did it! 
GHOST Way to go. 
CUT TO: 
SAM 
practicing. He smashes at an abandoned tennis shoe with his fist. Nothing happens. 
GHOST From your gut. What do I keep tellin' you? 
Sam's stomach bulges. He tries again. Nothing. 
GHOST (continuing) Give it time! What else have you got? 
Undaunted, Sam tries once more. This time the tennis shoe moves. The Ghost nods his head approvingly. Sam is thrilled. 
SAM How long have you been here? 
GHOST Since they pushed me. 
SAM Someone pushed you? 
GHOST Yeah, someone pushed me! 
SAM Who? 
GHOST What? You don't believe me? You think I fell? You think I jumped? Well, fuck you! (an unexpected rage starts to build) It wasn't my time! I wasn't supposed to go! I'm not supposed to be here! 
Venom spews from the Ghost's mouth. Suddenly he rams a cigarette machine full force with his head. The glass SHATTERS and packs of cigarettes scatter everywhere. He throws himself on top of them with terrible longing. 
GHOST (continuing) I'd give everything for a drag. Just one drag. 
He rolls and wallows in terrible frustration, tossing the cigarettes in all directions. Suddenly he looks up and sees Sam. He is unable to control his fury. 
GHOST (continuing) Who the hell are you? Why are you hounding me like this? Leave me alone. 
AN EXPRESS TRAIN 
is shooting through the station. The Ghost throws himself into it and in an instant he is gone. 
OMITTED 
INT. SUBWAY STATION - NIGHT 
Sam, all alone, walks through the station. Suddenly, he reaches out and pushes a garbage can lid. It swings back and forth. He is delighted. A beer can is sitting on a bench. He pushes it off, watching it roll across the platform with childlike glee. 
Looking up, Sam sees an advertisement for Market Security Bank and Trust. He stares at it with great interest. "Special Banking for Special People. We make it easy for you." Something registers in Sam's eyes. He yells and jumps straight up, hitting a subway sign with his finger. With great excitement, he runs for the stairs and rushes from the station. 
OMITTED 
INT. SEANCE ROOM - NIGHT 
ORTISHA JONES, a black woman with brassy red hair, is sitting at Oda Mae's seance table surrounded by several of her relatives. Clara and Louise stand behind Oda Mae helping with the ritual. Oda Mae goes into her trance. 
ANGLE 
A GROUP OF GHOSTS is milling behind Oda Mae. Sam comes barging into the room and looks at them in amazement. 
SAM What the hell? 
Oda Mae, startled, jumps up in her chair. Everyone else jumps, too. Clara and Louise look worried. 
ODA MAE Sam? 
SAM What is all this? What's goin' on? 
ODA MAE What'd you do, tell every spook in town about me? I got spooks from out of town here. There's stuff goin' on you wouldn't believe. I can't hardly believe it myself. 
Ortisha and her relatives look up, confused. 
SAM Oda Mae. You're doing it. This is for real. How do you like that? 
ODA MAE I don't. 
SAM Come on. Look at this. You're doing great. 
ODA MAE I want everybody out. 
ORTISHA Orlando? 
Ortisha looks around the room, befuddled. Clara and Louise aren't sure what to do. 
ODA MAE Now! 
Ortisha and her relatives scurry out fast. The ghosts, too, begin passing through the wall. Oda Mae lays her head on the table. Suddenly her whole body begins heaving. She is starting to cry. Sam is surprised. 
SAM Oda Mae, what's wrong? 
ODA MAE Out! I said out! That means you, too! 
Sam hesitates a moment and then respectfully follows the others through the wall. 
OMITTED 
INT. SEANCE ROOM - NIGHT 
Clara knocks on the seance room door and peeks in. 
CLARA Oda Mae, there's a man here who says he has to see you right away. 
ODA MAE I ain't seein' nobody. 
Willie pushes his way into the room. Clara isn't sure what to do. Oda Mae looks up. She does not know him. 
WILLIE Are you the one that can talk to the dead? 
ODA MAE I beg your pardon! I'm not seeing customers right now. 
WILLIE I said I need to know if you're the one. 
ODA MAE I'm the one. But not now. 
WILLIE This is important. I have a friend. He died recently. Some say he was mugged. I think he was murdered. 
Oda Mae stares at him curiously. 
WILLIE (continuing) I'm told you can contact people like that. Is that true? 
ODA MAE It's been known to happen. But it's not gonna happen now, so come back later. 
WILLIE I can't wait til later. 
He sits down across from Oda Mae and shows no signs of leaving. Oda Mae observes him quietly for a moment. 
ODA MAE What's your friend's name? 
WILLIE Good question. Why don't you tell me? 
Oda Mae glares at him. 
WILLIE (continuing) You're the psychic, right? 
ODA MAE This ain't no guessin' game. 
WILLIE Then what is it, lady? 
ODA MAE Lookit, I don't know what your trouble is... (getting nervous) Who are you? 
WILLIE You're the mindreader. I hear you've been tellin' people about me for days. What's my name? 
ANGLE - ODA MAE 
confused and uncomfortable. Sam comes wandering back into the room. His eyes bulge. 
SAM Willie! 
ODA MAE Willie!? 
Willie sits straight up in his chair, amazed. 
WILLIE How'd you know that? 
ODA MAE Because I'm psychic. 
With a sudden thrust, Oda Mae sends her foot shooting into Willie's balls. As he recoils she knocks the table into his lap and rushes for the closet. We see her barricade herself in the hidden chamber. 
Willie, shaking, scrambles to his feet and, before Sam can stop him, BLASTS his gun at the closet door. It is riddled with bullets. Sam screams out. Willie runs to the side door and escapes to the street. Clara and Louise come rushing in. 
Sam charges into the closet and sees that Oda Mae is safe behind the false door. Then he hurries to the street. 
OMITTED 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
INT. CARL'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
It is after hours. Almost everyone on the floor has gone. Carl, hunched over his computer, is typing furious commands on the keyboard. He looks haggard and worn. 
Sequence after sequence of coded numbers flash past on the monitor screen. Sam, sitting in a desk chair, watches, smiling. 
SAM Search, you bastard! You'll never find it. It's gone. (he smiles) They'll kill you for this, Carl. You and Willie. They'll wipe you off the face of the earth. 
In a moment of childish delight, he pushes his feet against the wall and the chair shoots across the room. Carl looks up and sees an empty chair moving. He stares at it in confusion, and then goes back to the screen. He seems desperate. Nothing is working. 
Panicked and frightened, Carl flicks off the machine and storms furiously around the room. Sam approaches the computer, hesitates a moment, and then pushes the power switch. The computer CLICKS back on. Carl spins around. He stares at the computer curiously for a moment and then turns it back off. Sam, enjoying this, reaches for the switch and FLICKS it back on again. Carl stares at it. 
CARL What the...? 
Carl watches as the keys seem to depress themselves and letters begin appearing on the screen. He sits down, mesmerized by what is happening. Then his face grows tense. The word "M-U-R-D-E-R-E-R" is emerging before him. 
Carl flies out of his chair, frantically running around to see who else is on the floor. He yells out like a madman. 
CARL (continuing) Who's doing that? 
There is no one there. He hears the computer beginning to type again and hurries back to look at the screen. One word appears. "S-A-M". 
Carl gasps and smashes the computer with his fist. It crashes to the floor. Electrical sparks go flying as Carl gasps for breath. 
Sam cannot hold himself back any longer. With a horrifying scream, he charges at Carl, jamming his fist hard into his ribs. 
SAM You bastard! You goddamn bastard! 
Carl grabs his side. 
CARL Ah! 
He hits Carl again. Carl gasps in inexplicable pain. 
SAM It's dinner time, Carl. Don't you have a date with Molly, you creepy son-of-a bitch? 
Sam keeps hitting deeper into Carl's mid-section. Carl doubles over as though he's going to throw up. 
CARL Jesus! Oh God! 
Sam is flushed with excitement. Carl kneels beside his desk. He cannot understand what is happening to him. His face goes stark white as the attack continues. 
Then, unexpectedly, the assault stops. Sam, exhausted, stares hatefully at his old friend cowering on the floor. Slowly and dizzily, Carl gets up. He looks fearfully around the office and then, holding his stomach, hurries from the room. 
INT. LOFT - THE SAME NIGHT 
Molly, all dressed to go out, is sitting in Sam's easy chair, asleep. Suddenly Carl arrives knocking at her door. He does not look well. Sam is with him. 
MOLLY Carl? Where were you? I thought we were having...? 
CARL I'm sorry. Things just got so crazy. I completely forgot. 
SAM Old Carl had a little trouble at the office. 
MOLLY Forgot? I was worried. Is everything okay? Are you all right? 
CARL I'm okay. I'm alright. Look, can I talk to you for minute? Can I come in? 
Molly eyes Carl with concern as he enters the loft. 
CARL (continuing) I need to ask you a question. 
SAM He needs to borrow four million dollars. 
CARL Molly, I know what the police said, but when you thought Sam was here, when you thought he spoke to you, what did you feel? What did he say? 
MOLLY Why? What happened? 
CARL (very tense) Molly, that psychic woman, I want to know what she told you. I want to know what she said. 
MOLLY Carl, stop this. It was all a hoax. I told you. It wasn't real. She's a charlatan. (she hesitates and stares at Carl) Does this have anything to do with her being at the bank today? 
SAM Oh shit! 
CARL (gulping) At the bank? 
Sam tenses. He holds up his hand as if wanting her to stop. 
MOLLY I was sure I saw her. Furgeson says she was taking out money. It turns out her name isn't even Oda Mae Brown. It's Rita Miller or something. 
Carl turns white. His eyes bulge. He feels sick. 
MOLLY (continuing) What's wrong? 
CARL Stomach. My stomach. Do you have anything? Pepto Bismol. 
MOLLY (worried) Sure. Just a second. What's going on? 
SAM They're heading for the door. 
ODA MAE (terrified) Jesus have mercy. 
EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT 
Willie forces open a back door. They head into the building. 
INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Oda Mae and the others hurry into the hall. They rush down the corridor and knock loudly on a neighbor's door. A WOMAN opens it a crack. 
ODA MAE Emergency! Let us in! 
WOMAN Who you kiddin'? 
The Woman slams the door and locks it shut. Oda Mae looks frightened. 
INT. APARTMENT STAIRWAY - NIGHT 
Carl and Willie climb the stairs two at a time. 
INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Oda Mae and her sisters bang on another apartment door. No one is home. Across the corridor an ELDERLY WOMAN sticks her head out to see what is going on. Before she can say anything they push their way inside. 
ELDERLY WOMAN What're you doin'? You can't come in here. The cat don't like visitors. She'll pee all over the couch. You wanna pay for... 
Oda Mae grabs the woman's mouth. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HALLWAY - FISHEYE LENS VIEW 
just as Willie and Carl emerge from the stairwell. They head down the hall toward Oda Mae's door. Willie pulls out a gun, and fires. The lock shoots open. They rush inside. 
CUT BACK TO: 
ODA MAE 
in the elderly woman's vestibule, peering through the peephole. The old woman is struggling and still trying to talk. Oda Mae's knees are wobbling. 
ODA MAE They're gonna find us. 
SAM No they won't. I'm gonna get 'em. 
ODA MAE Oh yeah? And how you gonna do that? 
SAM Whataya mean? I'm a ghost, aren't I? 
INT. ODA MAE'S LIVINGROOM - NIGHT 
Willie moves quickly through Oda Mae's apartment, his gun pointed, ready to fire. He seems furious when he realizes no one is there. 
WILLIE Looks like someone just left. 
CARL I'll check the building. 
ANGLE 
He rushes back out and down the stairs. Willie stays in the apartment. Suddenly, the doorbell RINGS. Willie rushes over and opens the door a crack. There is no one there. Confused, he backs away. The doorbell rings again. Completely mystified, he aims his gun and opens the door all the way. The hallway is empty. 
As Willie stands there, wondering what is happening, Sam steps inside and pushes the door closed. It slams shut. Willie nearly jumps out of his skin. 
WILLIE Damn! 
He stares at the door in total bewilderment. At that instant, a collection of picture frames flies off the breakfront and crashes into his legs. He backs away, spooked. 
Suddenly, the T.V. flicks ON at full volume and then the STEREO and the RADIO. Lights begin flashing on and off. Willie spins around in total dismay. 
Summoning all of his force, Sam slams into Willie. Willie recoils in unexplainable pain. He seems very disoriented. His gun falls to the floor. He reaches for it and Sam pushes it away. Willie jumps up, afraid. His eyes dart around the room. Sam laughs. 
WILLIE (continuing) Who's there? Who's doing that? 
ANGLE 
A pair of candle holders shoot off the mantle piece and nearly hit Willie in the head. He freaks. Grabbing his gun, Willie runs into the bathroom and locks the door. Suddenly the hot water faucet turns on by itself. 
Willie is terrified. Steam rises from the sink. Willie tries to get out, but Sam approaches him from behind and appears to dig his hands into his neck. Willie crumples to his knees. 
WILLIE Oh God! 
There is a SQUEAKING SOUND and Willie looks up. Letters are appearing in the fogged mirror. He stares in disbelief as the word "B-O-O!" emerges before him. He cries out. 
WILLIE (continuing) Let me outta here! 
Shaking uncontrollably, Willie FIRES his gun at the mirror. Glass and tiles EXPLODE. Willie is cut and bleeding. He grabs hold of the door and yanks it open. 
MOLLY (screaming) Why are you doing this to me? Get away from me! I know all about you. You're a fake. You're just a fake. Leave me alone! 
We see Sam's inside the room with Molly. He gazes at her lovingly for a moment and then calls back to Oda Mae. 
SAM Tell her she's wearing the blouse I spilled the Margarita on and the earrings I gave her for Christmas. 
ODA MAE Sam says you're wearin' the blouse he spilled the Margarita on and the earrings he gave you at Christmas. 
CUT BACK TO: 
MOLLY 
grabbing hold of her beads. Her hand is shaking. 
ODA MAE (O.S.) (continuing) See, I'm no fake. 
MOLLY Go away! 
SAM Gimme a penny quick. 
ODA MAE What? 
SAM Empty your purse. On the floor. Now. 
Oda Mae obeys. A pile of coins falls on the floor. 
SAM (continuing) Push a penny under the door. 
Oda Mae obeys and a penny slides into the loft. Molly sees it. Sam tips it carefully so it lands upright against the bottom of the door. Pushing gently, he moves the penny up the door until it's eye level with Molly. She watches it, amazed. 
Then, to her astonishment, the penny floats away from the door and hovers in the air. There is a look of wonder in Molly's eyes as it floats toward her. 
SAM (continuing; calling to Oda Mae) Tell her it's for luck. 
ODA MAE (O.S.) Sam says it's for luck. 
Molly stands there dumbfounded. Her face is completely white. After a moment she reaches for the penny. It falls into her hand. There are tears in her eyes. 
CUT TO: 
HALLWAY 
Oda Mae standing in the hallway as the door to the loft begins to open. Slowly Molly steps out onto the landing and stares at her, nervously, uncomprehendingly. She hesitates for a long moment and then invites Oda Mae in. 
INT. LOFT - NIGHT 
Molly is on the phone. Oda Mae is beside her. 
MOLLY Right. Yes, it's right on the corner. We're a red brick building with the entrance on the left side. Please hurry. Thank you Sergeant. We'll be waiting right here. (she hangs up) Police are on their way. 
Oda Mae takes her and leads her to the couch. 
MOLLY What do we do now? 
ODA MAE Just wait. 
There is a period of awkward silence. 
MOLLY Is Sam here? 
SAM I'm sitting beside you. 
ODA MAE (pointing) Right here. 
Molly reaches out tentatively. Sam meets her hand. She flinches for a second but does not pull back. 
MOLLY (fingering the air) Can you feel me, Sam? 
SAM With all my heart. 
ODA MAE With all his heart, he says. 
SAM I'd give anything to be alive again, just to feel you once more. 
ODA MAE He wishes he could touch you, just one more time. 
MOLLY Oh, Sam. 
Oda Mae looks away uncomfortably. The CAMERA HOLDS on her face. After a moment she turns around and addresses the air. 
ODA MAE Okay, damn it, you can use me if you want. 
Sam looks oddly at Oda Mae. 
ODA MAE (continuing) Come on. Before I change my mind. 
Suddenly he understands what she means. 
Carl runs to the fire escape window. He looks out just in time to see Oda Mae go into the 7th story window. 
INT. NEW LOFT - NIGHT 
Molly and Oda Mae run through a new loft that is under construction. It is a maze of tangled wires and broken walls. The fire escape window slams shut and nearly scares them half to death. They rush blindly toward the front door. It won't open. 
ODA MAE Back to the fire escape. Head for the roof. 
Oda Mae reaches the fire escape window just as Carl appears on the other side. She screams. Carl tries shoving the window open. It won't budge. 
Molly sees some scaffolding leading to the skylight. There is an opening at the top. 
MOLLY This way! 
Molly quickly climbs the scaffolding and makes it to the roof. 
With a huge shove, Carl opens the window and rushes inside. The window slams behind him. 
Oda Mae rushes back toward Molly, but her foot catches on a loose cable and she falls to the ground. 
ODA MAE Help us, Sam! 
OMITTED 
ODA MAE 
A hand falls on Oda Mae's shoulder. She spins around. Carl is standing behind her. She screams as he knocks her to the floor. 
CARL I want the check. Just give me the check. 
Molly looks down from the scaffolding and begins to scream. 
MOLLY (screaming) God almighty, Carl! What are you doing? What have you done!? 
She descends quickly and runs toward Carl. 
CARL Don't interfere! She's a thief. It's not her money. 
Carl kicks Oda Mae. Molly rushes at him, attacking him violently. Carl aims his gun at her. 
CARL (continuing) Keep out of this, Molly! 
He grabs Oda Mae by the hair. 
CARL (continuing) Where is it? 
Oda Mae cries out. 
ODA MAE In my purse. 
CARL Where? 
ODA MAE Over there. 
She points across the room. 
Carl sees the purse and yanks Oda Mae toward it. Yanking it off the floor, he tears through it like a wild man. There is no check. He grabs Oda Mae. 
CARL Where is it, goddamn it? Where is it? 
ODA MAE I gave it away. 
CARL You're lying! Don't lie to me! 
He aims his gun at her eye and is about to FIRE when, suddenly, something shoves him to the floor. Carl screams and jumps back, tripping over Oda Mae. Sam is standing there. 
In total panic, Carl scrambles to get up. Horrified, he SHOOTS his gun blindly into the air. Molly and Oda Mae dive for cover. The bullets have no impact. Sam musters all his strength and shoves Carl again. White with fear, Carl grabs Molly and aims his gun at her head. 
CARL (continuing) I'll kill her. You touch me and I'll kill her. I mean it, Sam. Just give me the check. 
The gun is cocked at her temple. No one moves. Slowly the camera dollies toward Carl. 
CARL (continuing) Sam, please. I didn't mean for him to kill you. It's not my fault. Come on, Sam, give me the check. Give it to me and I'll leave her alone. 
Nothing happens. Carl looks nervous. 
ANGLE 
CARL Sam? Sam? 
In a wild explosive fury, Sam charges at Carl and smashes at his gun. The weapon flies out of Carl's hand. Empowered by an anger we have not seen before, Sam smashes into Carl with a violent force. Carl's body careens into walls and floorboards. Wiring snaps. Two-by-fours crack. 
Carl, crawling desperately to escape, sees his gun on the floor. With a wild rush, he grabs for it and shoots at the door. The lock explodes and the door flies open. 
Carl tries to run for it, but Sam cuts in front of him. With growing power, Sam sends Carl flying back into the apartment, colliding into a tall scaffold. Bags of plaster topple to the ground as mounds of plaster dust hurl into the air. The apartment looks like a scene from another world. 
Carl, in a state of total unrelieved panic, breaks away from Sam. The dust obscures his escape. Like a trapped insect, he scrambles furiously to the fire escape window. Sam cannot see him. 
