GINGER SNAPS 
Written by 
Karen Walton 
July 15th, 1996 
FADE IN 
EXT. FITZGERALD HOME -- NIGHT 
The house is dark. The moon is almost full. A dog barks. A melancholy voice, worn for its age, narrates: BRIGITTE (V/o) Ever try bein' different? An, I don't mean jus' thinkin' about it, either. Ginger an' me - I mean I... The house numbers read 669. The 9 slips: the number now reads 666. 
BRIGITTE (CON'T/V/O) Ginger an' I? Went for different. Big time. There's a light on in a basement window. We creep up to it, crushing the tulip. borders on the way. The window is propped open with a sneaker: it looks like somebody's foot is caught in it. Music plays inside- 
INT. GIRLS' BASEMENT BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Gyrating in her underwear to bad-girl grunge, BRIGITTE FITZGERALD (15) straddles GINGER FITZGERALD (also 15 and in underwear) on one of the twin single beds. Both girls have cigarettes lolling on their lower lips. Both girls have pierced eyebrows, pierced noses and streaked hair. Brigitte has blue nail polish on. Ginger has breasts. 
GINGER Brigitte. Quit dickin' around. Jus' do it. Brigitte reluctantly stops her thrashing and douses a cotton ball in rubbing alcohol. Without looking up from her TANK GIRL comic, Ginger hauls her own shirt up to expose her navel. Brigitte swabs Ginger's navel with the wet cotton ball. Her eyes drift to Ginger's chest, then back to what she's doing. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) Ginger's ten months older than me. we're seriously tight. Share everything. Everything. Around them, many candles burn. There's a dead bolt on the door. An attached full bath. The floors are thick with paranormal books. The walls are covered in images of UFO's and horror flicks. A framed photo of Kurt Cobain with Courtney Love has a place of honor. There's an old Polaroid of the girls at five in Halloween costumes; Lill Red Riding Hood and the Big Bad Wolf. Ginger is the wolf. Brigitte produces an enormous darning needle. It glints. she levels it at Ginger's navel, her hand shaking. 
BR IG ITTE Ready? 
GINGER (without looking up) Uh-huh. 
BRIGITTE .I can't. Ginger gives Brigitte a look over the top of her comic. Brigitte takes a deep breath, and lines the needle up again. Brigitte swallows hard and applies pressure. The needle pierces Ginger's skin. Her stomach muscles flinch. 
GINGER 
OUCH! 
BRIGITTE You said it wouldn't hurt! 
GINGER Jus' hurry up! The needle has stopped moving half-way through the skin. 
BRIGITTE Uh-oh . Brigitte wiggles the needle. Blood wells up around it. 
BRIGITTE Um. I think it's stuck. Oh man. There's blood... Ginger lowers her comic. she takes one look at the needle half-.in, half-out of her belly button - and cracks up. 
BRIGITTE snot funny, Ginger! Laughing her head off, Ginger gives the needle a good tug from her end. The skin tugs with it, resisting. 
BRIGITTE Ali, gawd, gross. Ginger yanks the needle, hard. This time it moves. 
GINGER I got it, I got it. Ginger grits her teeth. The needle begins a slow progress. 
GINGER It's goin', it's goin'- gimme the ring Brigitte grabs at a tiny silver ring on the bed spread but knocks it to the floor. Brigitte scrambles after it. Ginger yanks the needle. 
GINGER Bee?! C'mon! Brigitte finds the ring and hands it to Ginger. Ginger sets the ring on the end of the needle, looping it not-so-neatly through. 
BRIGITTE Oh, groo-oo-o-ss! The bloody needle pops clear. Ginger grinds on the ring to close it. Ginger wipes her bloody hands on the bed. Brigitte is taking deep, gulping breaths. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) But nobody wanned to reach me. The bell goes. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) (a tad defensive) Like I cared. 
INT. BAILEY HIGH HALLS - DAY 
TEENS clog the halls. Judging by the herd, Bailey High is not big on individual identity, or at least its outward expression. Ginger and Brigitte slip down the crowded corridors, sticking out like sore thumbs. Ginger holds her forehead. 
GINGER Gawd, People! They hurt my brain! 
BRIGITTE They didn't even get it. 
GINGER They're retards. 
BRIGITTE They're cretins. 
GINGER They're bone-heads. 
BRIGITTE 't'hey' re somnambulists. 
GINGER They're leems. 
BRIGITTE They're the goddamn walkin'-/ The girls stop before their locker. A folded up piece of loose leaf has been crushed into it, its end sticking out. 
BR I G ITTE 
(UNIMPRESSED) Another one? Ginger opens the locker. She unfolds the paper. There's a big fat joint inside, and a note that says: GINGER, CALL 555- 
Ginger pockets the joint, crumples the paper into a ball and tosses it at a near-by trash can. She misses. The girls head down the hall.. 
BRIGITTE Somebody leaves you all. these jays an, yer not even curious to call? 
Ginger offers her a sucker and has one herself. 
GINGER No pe . A FAT JANITOR scoops up the wad of loose leaf with great resentment and jams it into the trash. Brigitte and Ginger pass a NECKING COUPLE practically dry- humping, GIRLS applying make-up to one another, and BOYS snapping each other with their sports cups. Jason and his fellow jock-pals TIM, FRANK, and JEREMY are scoping babes. Ginger bends to tie her boot lace and a collective groan swells from the guys. 
JASON See? She's weird, but hot. 
TIM Anybody poled Fitzy yet? Brigitte gives them a disgusted look. 
TIM Not that one. The cute one. Brigitte's face falls. Ginger gives them a Death Stare. The boys try flirty smiles. 
GINGER (to Brigitte) Sad. Must be hard to think with yer brains slappin' around yer thighs like that all day. Brigitte laughs. Ginger pulls her on, past a sign: GYMNASIUM. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) We didn't do guys. Guys were too gross. Everyone at Bailey High was just too incredibly gross. Ginger applies her boot to a swinging door and they enter, 
INT. GIRLS' CHANGING ROOM - DAY 
The Fitzgeralds stop dead. They take in a menagerie of 90210- wanna-be GIRLS changing for gym class. The background chat is all sex and mascara. There is only one free spot: next to Trina and her TRINA CLONES. The Trinas slide into a-size-too-small shorts while parading hefty chests. The Trina acts like she owns the goddamn planet. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) The only thing worse than most teenage boys are most teenage girls. Trinas are the limit. Ginger digs at her lower abdomen painfully. 
GINGER I feel sick. 
PAMELA Henry, neither one of them has had a period yet. 
HENRY Ah. Yes. You've said. Repeatedly. As Pamela says the next line, Ginger mou t:hs it- word for word 1.a Brigitte. 
PAMELA It's very odd that two perfectly healthy fifteen year olds are not menstruating. Right? Briggitte apes Henry's next line back to Ginger. 
HENRY Mmmm. steak's really yummy tonight. This a new sauce? The sisters giggle. Pamela is losing her cool. 
PAMELA I started at eleven. The problem must be on your side, Henry. 
HENRY Pamela? This is not my fault. No one's at fault here. 
PAMELA when did your sister start? 
HENRY I've told you, I really have no idea. Oddly enough, we never discussed it. why don't you call her and ask her yourself? 
PAMELA I can't call her out of the blue and ask a thing like that. Besides, it's dinner time. They'll be eating. 
HENRY A--ha! 
PAMELA Well I've been checking panties for four years now 
GINGER & BRIGITTE/HENRY Mo-othe-er!!! /For chrissakes. 
GINGER (CON'T) You look at our underwear? Fuck! 
HENRY Hey, hey - I don't want to hear that word in my house. You will do as your mother says and I will change the subject. Anybody going to tell me what happened to my fence? From under the table, Henry produces the bloodied, sawed-off picket stained bloody from Ginger's impaling. Brigitte holds her full mouth open so Ginger can see its masticated contents. Ginger cracks up laughing. Henry and Pamela sigh. 
INT. GIRLS' BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Norman the terrier barks OFF-SCREEN - constantl Brigitte grimaces at the cartoon-style diagrams of How To Insert A Tampon. She carefully unwraps one and sets it in a glass of water. She times its expansion on her watch. 
BRIGITTE Why din't you jus' tell her you're going to get it? 
Ginger is dissecting the gift joint from their locker. she sniffs its contents. 
GINGER Can't take her 'attention'. She grosses me out. Can't believe she's our mother. Brigitte puts a fresh tampon up her nose and lifts a Polaroid camera at arms' length from her face. 
BRIGITTE Yeah, but now we have to see this doctor. You can jus' say you got it, but I'm screwed. FLASH! The Polaroid spits out the front. Brigitte sticks another tampon in her free nostril, and one in each ear as, 
GINGER Did I get you out of Home Ec? Did I get you out of ballet classes? So I'll get you out of this, right? 
BR IG ITTE You better, gawd the idea FLASH! Brigitte takes a Polaroid of herself with a tampon sticking out of every visible orifice. Ginger slides the grass into a pre-rolled fresh casing and sticks it in her mouth. 
GINGER I said I will, I will. This jay's fine. Let us smoke, sister. Ginger cranks the stereo and throws on a coat. She double- takes Brigitte' s tampon face. 
GINGER WHAT are you doing? 
BRIGITTE (sticking tampons under her upper lip) Look - a walrus. 
GINGER Hardee-har. Har. 
Ginger steps up on the bed and swings the ground-level window open. 
GINGER Nice. Ginger wipes at the blood with her hand. More appears. She lifts up the hem of her skirt. Her face falls. She looks around. She slips her fingers up to her crotch. Her hand comes out bloody. 
GINGER Bee. I JUST got the curse. Brigitte stops rooting garbage over the dog. 
BRIGITTE Serious? Ginger wiggles her wet fingers at her. 
GINGER We gotta go home. 
BRIGITTE Eeew, 'kay. Brigitte catches her kilt on a nail sticking out of a plank in the trash. Something is crunching through the leaves toward them. Ginger peers out into the darkness. 
GINGER Hurry upt 
BRIGITTE I'm stuck3 A few homes down, a garage's motion-sensitive security lamp trips on. Ginger squints, blinded. 
GINGER Bee?: Brigitte contorts to deal with the nail. Brigitte tears her hem free and jumps down. The light snaps off. 
GINGER (indicating the opposite direction) Let's go this way. Brigitte dips a hand back into the dumpster for the plank with the nail. Off Ginger's look, Brigitte shrugs. They start walking down the lane. The greenery behind them starts swelling again. The leaves crunch, faster. Brigitte and Ginger look at one another, and walk faster. The lane empties behind a deserted strip mall. 
EXT. STRIP MALL LOT - NIGHT 
Whatever is behind them knocks an empty trash can over. Brigitte grabs Ginger's arm, scared. 
BRIGITTE This is stupid. We're getting farther from home. Ginger is pissed off now. she turns to confront their stalker. 
GINGER (to the darkness) All right you ass-/ She's cut cold by a roaring blur of speeding fur and teeth and claws: SOMETHING takes Ginger down hard. We cannot see it as a whole, we can't make out what it is. It's big, heavy, and raging. Immense jaws snap vicious teeth, going for Ginger's jugular. Brigitte drops her plank. 
GINGER & BRIGITTE 
BRIGITTE/GINGER!!! Brigitte grabs and kicks at the creature. Ginger raises her arms and covers her head, screeching and kicking. The thing grabs Ginger by the scruff and shakes the living daylights out of her. 
GINGER 
BEEEEEI HELP MEEE! BEEEEE!!!1! Brigitte snatches up the plank with the nails. Brigitte brings it down hard on the thing, screaming. She smacks it once, twice. The plank pops a shot off the camera: FLASH! A horrible set of jaws and one golden eye are caught for a split second in the light. The third hit evokes a yelp and the thing backs off, snarling.. Brigitte quakes with the board raised, ready. The thing skitters before her as she screams. Ginger scrambles to her foot and grabs Bee with bloodied hands. 
GINGER Go-go-go-go-go-go!!!! Brigitte drops the plank and they run like hell.. for a main thorough-way ahead. It pursues them. 
EXT. THE THOROUGH-WAY - NIGHT 
The late-night traffic is light but consistent. The thing is still, coming. At a dead run Brigitte and Ginger sail between moving cars. The thing burns behind them. The girls are barely missed by an approaching truck. There is a long blast of a horn. Then a sickening thud. Brakes squeal incto a stop as a horrible dragging/ scrain fills the night air. The girls crash to the sidewalk, spilling over top of one another. They glance over their shoulders, even as they disappear into a new residential stretch. The COUNTY REGREENING PROGRAM truck sits at a right angle in the road, it's front end smashed. 
Sam slowly opens the cab door. He staggers to the bloody grill, clearly shaken. He looks under the truck, and follows a wet trail of gore back behind it to the mangled furry mass about twenty feet back. He takes it in, stunned. Then Sam vomits. 
INT. GIRLS BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Brigitte scrambles through the window and helps Ginger through after her. They're bloody, sweaty and tearful. They slump shaking, side by side on Ginger's bed, catching their breath. Brigitte notices the rivulets of blood trickling down Ginger's arms. Ginger's shirt is soaking with growing red stains. 
BRIGITTE Ginger, shit! Ginger looks at herself. Ginger starts to cry. 
GINGER The fuck was that, Bee? 
INT. ATTACHED BATHROOM - NIGHT 
Brigitte flings open the vanity and collects various first aid items: gauze, tape, band-aids, iodine. She snags a washcloth and wets it at the tap. 
SAM (to Brigitte) Sorry about him, he's an ass hole. Morely! My girlfriend's, she won't leave him at home alone any more. Ya know, dog killers. Morely, no! Sit! Brigitte's mouth is hanging open. Morely slobbers all over her hands. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) I know, I look like an asshole. Ginger's perma-smug smile fades as she makes eye contact with Morely. Morel growls at her. Sam is about to resume his accident story when, 
JASON Watcha got for us? Sam produces several baggies of grass. Morely's hackles rise. Brigitte looks from the dog to Ginger, Ginger squirms. 
SAM New harvest, see whatcha think. (to Morely) What's your problem? Never seen a pretty girl before? Ginger sneers at Morely and Morely bares his teeth. 
JASON/TIM/FRANK (digging out cash) Thanks, man. Morely bursts out barking and charges at Ginger. Mayhem as the guys try to contain the dog in the small space. Jason uses the opportunity to shield Ginger for a free body press. Brigitte gets banged and shoved. Ginger kicks and screams at the dog, her boot connects squarely with his snout. Morely keels back, and Sam snaps him up. 
SAM Sorry, he's not really like this. I'm really sorry. 
GINGER Jus' get'im out! 
SAM I'm really - well, see you guys. And in another flash of daylight, Sam and Morely are gone. Brigitte looks longingly at the closed door. The stone has set in, and everyone but Brigitte giggles as they settle. Brigitte takes in the Lesser Mortals like they're lepers. 
JASON You okay? 
GINGER Yeah. Just hate dogs. They give one another this corny smile. Brigitte bugs her eyes at Ginger. Ginger rises reluctantly. 
GINGER Well. Thanks for the smoke. 
JASON Maybe we could --/ Ginger places a finger to her lips, then makes a finger gun and shoots him. 
GINGER I'll letcha know. Ginger grins ear-to-ear, elbowing Brigitte. Ginger kicks the van doors open and saunters out. Brigitte :Follows, trying not to laugh. 
INT. SCHOOL CAN - DAY 
Brigitte stands stoned out of her bean in the girls' washroom. She imitates Ginger's cavalier farewell from the last scene. 
BRIGITTE I'll letcha, I'll jus' let-choo know. Bud. .So Ginger. Wanna tell me about you and like, the planet yer currently visiting? No answer. Brigitte squints at the tampon dispenser next to her. She tries to work it without putting money in. She smacks her dry lips. Brigitte bends over the sink and drinks from the tap. 
GINGER SNAPS- WALTON/July 15, 1996 36 
GINGER (O/S) Bee-? Brigitte doesn't hear her over the roar of the tap in her face. It shuts off automatically over her gaping mouth. Brigitte puts her finger up the spout and almost gets it stuck. 
GINGER Bee! 
BRIGITTE 
(STARTLED) Yeah! 
GINGER Com'ere-! Brigitte shuffles to the wrong door, opens it and finds it empty. She giggles and moves to the next one. 
BRIGITTE That smoke fucked me _up._ up. Brigitte finds Ginger with her shirt and all, the bandages peeled off. she is dabbing at herself with wads of toilet paper. The scratches and bites are oozing a clear gelatinous goo, under which a fine film of dark hairs have sprouted. Brigitte steps into the stall agape. The door hits her on the way in. 
INT. BATHROOM STALL - DAY 
Ginger and Brigitte stand nose to nose in the stall. Brigitte has not fully closed the door. Ginger is just as stoned as Brigitte. 
BRIGITTE Geez that's not right. 
GINGER 1 didn't think. 
INT. BIOLOGY LAB - DAY 
Today's assignment is hacking up little pig feti. 
BRIGITTE (O/S) 'Course Trina din't waste any time. Trina stares Brigitte down as she folds up a note and passes it to a classmate. It is read and passed on by every kid in the room during this scene. Brigitte holds her scalpel over the over their piggy - hesitating. Ginger's attention is riveted on the little carcass. 
BRIGITTE They're all looking at us. 
GINGER So? Ginger looks up at Jason, who is reading the note. Jason smiles at Ginger and destroys the note. Trina seethes. Ginger grabs the knife from Brigitte. she makes a deep incision in the pig's belly. 
BRIGITTE So! You're growing fur an, acting like a nut, is so! Ginger spies two girls giggling at her. Using both hands Ginger cracks the carcass. wide open like a clam. Ginger digs in, gouging out the pig's parts with her bare hands. Ginger breaks into a sweat, her breathing gets heavy. Brigitte cautiously looks around at their classmates. she moves to shield Ginger from prying eyes. 
BRIGITTE Um. Ginger-? 
GINGER hold on, I'm goi.n' for the brain. Ginger has begun scraping away at the pig's cranium with her finger nails. A sickening creak, snap, and the brain is exposed. Ginger - unconsciously - licks her fingers as she admires its frontal lobe. 
Brigitte fights a ralph. 
BRIGITTE Can't believe you did that! 
GINGER Hunh? What? Before Brigitte can answer, Ginger lifts the brain out on her finger tips, gently pushes Brigitte out of her way and... Whap! The brain lands squarely on Trina's head. Trina screams. 
GINGER Ha-ha! Bull's eye! 
BIO TEACHER Ginger Fitzgerald! Hall, NOW! 
GINGER What, it slipped! As Ginger stomps out with the teacher. Brigitte and Trina gape at one another. 
INT. GYNECOLOGIST'S EXAMINING ROOM - DAY 
BRIGITTE (V/O) That week, Ginger was all over the map. She was the goddamn schizo poster girl. She forgot the gyno guy. I couldn't believe she forgot. She promised. Brigitte is dying a thousand deaths on the examining table with her feet in stirrups. The GYNECOLOGIST is examining her. A NURSE stands next to him, smiling benignly as she passes him the contraption used to take a pap smear. Brigitte is almost in tears. 
CUT TO: Same moment in the examination procedure, but now Ginger is in the stirrups. And the doctor is shocked at his findings. 
GYNO What the -? 
INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 
Brigitte gives Ginger a pout as they both shift uncomfortably in their seats. The doctor is gulping cups of water from the water cooler, his hand shaking. He talks to Pamela like the girls aren't even there. 
GYNO I've never seen anything like it. She's not built like a normal girl. I've sent samples to the lab. But this is very, VERY unusual. Brigitte pokes Ginger in the ribs. Ginger doesn't like this, and pushes Brigitte so hard she almost falls off her chair. 
PAMELA Girls, please. 
INT GIRLS' BEDROOM - NIGHT The window is open. Norman the terrier yams. Ginger is in a tank shirt which reveals her hair growth is spreading. Brigitte is sitting at. the desk with a pile of monster books. 
GINGER What're you, nuts? I got a skin thing, whatever. 
BRIGITTE If you just gotta skin thing why does it get worse everytime yer being a bitch? Why's the gyno say you're a monster inside? 
GINGER He din't say that! 
BR I G ITTE Just listen to these symptoms! 
PAMELA (O/S) Who's showering so late? 
BRIGITTE Ginger! 
PAMELA(O/S) Why? 
BRIGITTE she's dirty?! Brigitte throws up her hands: what an idiotic conversation. 
PAMELA (01S) Dirty!? How'd she get/ 
BR IG ITTE I'm tryin' to study, here! 
PAMELA (01S) oh, all right then. Brigitte slumps against the door. The showers stops. Ginger appears in a towel, pink and clean and freshly furry in places. She's in a really good mood. She takes one look at Brigitte's face of doom and tries to be serious. 
GINGER I couldn't help it. Really. Guess you were right. Ginger finds and lights a smoke. 
GINGER You know what's really weird? 
BRIGITTE Weirder than KILLING A DOG AND 
EATING IT???!! 
GINGER I liked it. I liked it a lot. I feel all fucki.n' goofy now. Like, I dunno. Like .happy? Brigitte shakes her head over and over. 
GINGER I feel like I just got off the Planet Smasher ride at WarWorid, okay? It rules! Ginger leaps to the stereo and blasts on some tunes. She flails around the room wildly. Ginger grabs Brigitte by the arms and makes her dance too. Ginger spins and spins Brigitte, who fights it but laughs. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) So she'd killed Norman. 1 never seen anyone bliss out like that. I wanted to be so blissed, jus' once. There is repeated pounding on their door. Brigitte still entangled in Ginger, hits the music off. 
PAMELA (O/S) Little late for that, girls. 
GINGER/BRIGITTE (Bite me:)/Sorry; They stand in each other's arms listening to Pamela mount the stairs OFF SCREEN. Ginger shoves Brigitte backward onto her bed. Ginger piles on top of her, playfully pinning her down. 
GINGER I want more. Brigitte squirms fitfully. 
BR IG ITTE No, it's too gross! You'll get caught. 
GINGER Not if you help. Bee. I'm starving. Brigitte looks into her sister's beaming face. 
GINGER Jus' keep watch. Look, I'm gonna be somethin' totally else. Tell me you don't so dig it. Tell me you don't wanna see what happens. Brigitte groans. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) Straight up? Crazy's contagious. Trust me. 
EXT. VARIOUS STREETS & YARDS - VARIOUS NIGHTS 
Bailey Downs sleeps soundly as the hunt begins. The moon is a sliver of its former self. Ginger cocks her head at the sound of a dog barking. She lifts her nose into the wind and sniffs. Ginger is prowls like a wild cat through yards and service lanes, as A study in much less stealth, Brigitte stumbles, trips and slips after Ginger. Splits her sweats climbing fences. Loses a shoe over garage roofs, gets caught in automated lawn sprinklers, falls into hidden cellar window troughs, as A series of dogs perk their ears and snarl from their dog houses, chains, and porch perches... Low whistles and smoochy sounds lure the dogs into bushes, behind cars, around fences. Strings of dogs' chains strain tight, then slacken... Ginger - wild-eyed, bloody-mouthed, and euphoric - tosses collars at Brigitte. Brigitte misses most of the tosses. She picks up the collars and fingers these souvenirs with disgust. 
INSERT: 
EXT. A BACK YARD - DAWN 
A LITTLE KID decked out for hockey practice waddles into his yard with a full dog food dish. His feet squish along his pet's entrails. He finds his dog's body and drops the dish with a clatter on the cement patio. 
KID M-m-mMOMI? 
GINGER Got a light, Jace'? Jason and his pals all fumble for lighters and five little flames appear before her smoke. She lights her smoke on Jason's, and exhaling looks him up and down. The boys flames go out, all at once. 
GINGER My sister would like one also. obediently, they all light up for Brigitte. Brigitte falters before the attention. At Ginger's nod, Brigitte lights up too. 
TRINA (O1S) Slut. Ginger turns to see Trina and the Clones sizing her up. 
GINGER Excuse me? Ginger seems to tower over the Trinas today. Trina can't match the menace. Ginger exhales smoke in Trinals face and climbs the steps into the school. Brigitte double-takes Ginger's back. Ginger's spine is protruding sharply through her shirt. Trina leers at Brigitte. 
TRINA Better watch your back, Fitzenstein. Brigitte snorts and follows Ginger in. 
BRIGITTE (under her breath) Like I'm scared. 
INT ENGLISH CLASS - DAY Ginger chews her nails like a dog does when cleaning them. Brigitte and the rest of the class watch an RCMP OFFICER holding a reward poster at the front of the room. 
OFFICER we need your cooperation. If you know anything about the so- called Beast of Bailey Downs, call in. You can be anonymous. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) Ha! As if they weren't already. 
OFFICER (CON'T) But your pets aren't safe until the perpetrator is caught. Ginger sighs loudly and Brigitte prods her. 
EXT. BAILEY HIGH SPORTING FIELD - DAY 
The girls' gym class is prepping for lacrosse again. The Trinas square off across the half-way mark from Ginger. Mz. Sykes blows her whistle. The scrimmage begins. Trina whips the Indian rubber ball right into Ginger's face. Ginger drops her stick and launches herself at Trina. Play stops with the whistle, but Ginger and Trina are just going at it. Ginger's winning. Trina bites Ginger's sore arm and Ginger rakes her nails over Trina's neck.. Ginger draws blood. Mz. Sykes breaks it up by dragging Ginger off Trina. Sykes tends to Triria, who bawls. Ginger wipes her bloody hand over her mouth. 
BRIGITTE Ginger! Ginger's rolling the taste of Trina's blood around in her mouth. 
GINGER Mmnun . 
BRIGITTE You can't do that, That's human blood! .Feel anything? Brigitte and Ginger stare at one another. Ginger first shakes her head., but then nods. Ginger looks around and whispers 
GINGER SNAPS- WALTON/July 15, 1996 52 
GINGER It's sick but - I'm all like horny. Brigitte makes a sour face. 
SYKES Fitzgerald, bench! 
GINGER What, she started it! Brigitte watches Ginger march to the sidelines, throwing off her gear as she goes. 
SYKES Pick that stuff up! Ginger gives Sykes the finger without looking back. Brigitte groans. 
INT. BAILEY HIGH HALLS - DAY 
Brigitte waits outside a door marked GUIDANCE. Trina struggles by with the help of her clones. Trina sports a big ugly bandage on her neck, knees and an arm in a sling. She shoots Brigitte a Death Stare. 
TRINA Yer bitch sister's dead, freak. 
BRIGITTE (under her breath) Fuck off. Jason lopes up. He indicates the guidance office door. 
JASON Ginger in there again? Brigitte ignores him. 
JASON Cool. Um. Look, Belinda... 
BRIGITTE Brigitte. 
BRIGITTE My life is basically over. 
GINGER Bee. ..BEE! Awestruck, they both watch as Ginger extends and retracts her: new set of claws. There is a knock at the door. The girls look at one another in mute horror. Ginger addresses the door. 
GINGER What! 
PAMELA (O/S) Are you two fighting?! 
GINGER -- No! 
GINGER SNAPS -WALTON/July 15. 1996 61 
PAMELA (O/S) come on then. Dinner's ready. Brigitte and Ginger hop up and down in a brief freak fit. 
GINGER (O/S) Coming! 
TNT FITZGERALD DINING ROOM - NIGHT Ginger has her new paw curled up in an over-sized sweat jacket sleeve. Brigitte stares at the stew before them with grave distaste. Pamela has a number of used tissues around her - she's been crying. 
HENRY The gynecologist called. Pamela grasps Ginger's gnarly arm and squeezes it through her sleeve. Brigitte and Ginger look at Pamela's hand. 
PAMELA There's something wrong, Ginger. He wants to do an ultra-sound! 
HENRY Pamela, don't scare her. How could the cells not be human cells? we'll send you to somebody else. 
PAMELA I'm sure your father's right. I'm just upset... How are you feeling, do you feel. all right? 
GINGER Um. sure. Fine. 
PAMELA (lowering her voice) No unusual discharge or anything like that? Henry, Brigitte and Ginger groan. 
PAMELA I worry, all right? I've made another appointment with a new doctor. Early next month was the earliest he could see you. okay? 
GINGER okay. They all begin eating in silence. Except Brigitte who gags as Henry squirts ketchup all over his stew. 
EXT. NEIGHBOR'S YARD - NIGHT 
Trina's body is wrapped in a bedspread and stuffed in a kid's wagon. Brigitte is keeping a look out looking pale and sickened. Grass and dirt spray out of the playhouse. Ginger is digging up the ground inside doggie style. She emerges, shaking the turf out of her new paw. They struggle to get Trina inside, but she's already too stiff to bend up. 
GINGER Told you. 
BRIGITTE Rigor mortis. Knew we shoulda skipped dinner. 
GINGER Can we do it my way now? Brigitte hesitates, her anxieties rising. 
BR IG ITTE So is this it? You doin' people now? 
GINGER She won't fit unless I 
BR IG ITTE You know what I mean. Just say. 
GINGER I din't kill her! 
BRIGITTE But were you gonna? There is a long pause. Ginger tries to laugh it off with, 
INT COUNTY GREENHOUSE - DAY Brigitte can hear male voices as she minces down the leafy aisles. 
COP (O/S) It's in your best interests to be cooperative. 
SAM (O/S) My lawyer's co-operative, I just know my rights. I don't know where she is, I'm very concerned. That's it, unless you got a warrant. She ends up backing into a COP behind some palms. 
BRIGITTE Shhh-it! I mean, sorry. 
SAM (to cop) You can see I got customers, so if that's all. 
COP Okay. Sure. For now. The cop gives Sam a final Dirty Harry squint and leaves. Sam collects himself with difficulty. So does Brigitte. 
SAM if you skipped school lookin' to score, I don't keep nothin' here at work, sweetheart. 
BRIGITTE I din't. I mean I skipped, but-/ 
SAM Hey. From Mccardy's van, right? You know my girlfriend? Trina Sinclair? 
BRIGITTE Rinda. 
SAM You seen her today? 
GINGER SNAPS- WAI.TON/July 15, 1996 67 
BRIGITTE Not today... 
SAM Fuck. She's missing. 
BRIGITTE Oh. S-sorry. 
SAM Yeah, well. Cops think I know where she is. I don't. Sam looks Brigitte right in the eye. Brigitte is caught up in him for a second. 
SAM Sorry, what do you care right? What do you need. 
BRIGITTE Um. Lookin' for this. She holds out the torn page. Sam takes it. 
SAM Aconitum lycoctonum? Sorry. Brigitte yanks her own hair hard. Sam smiles. 
SAM Tryin' to kill somebody? (off her look) Well, you know it's poisonous, right? Wolfs bane? Deadly. Be like stocking hemlock an, shit. 
BRIGITTE No, I thought it did something else. Doesn't matter. 
SAM Anyways they're perennials - only flowers in spring. Brigitte turns to leave, hot with frustration, huinilliation. Sam watches her stamp toward the door. 
SAM Hey. Ranunculaceae come in about a hundred species. I've gotta cousin, monkshood. Not so toxic. If you're interested. 
Brigitte stops and considers him. 
SAM Don't know if it'd help. 
INT GREENHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER They sit together amidst beautiful plants and flowers. Sam. picks a tiny purple flower from a bed of young plants and hands it to Brigitte. 
SAM S'called monkshood 'cause people used to think it kept 'em pure from dirty thoughts. Seriously. 
WAYNE (cutting her off) You are expelled. This is not your personal playground, this is a school. 
GINGER Oh dear. 
INT. GUIDANCE OFFICE -- A FEW MINUTES LATER/DAY 
Ginger's good hand lifts the telephone receiver on Mr. Wayne's desk. With her wolfen paw she dials. In the background we see blood splattered over the walls. 
GINGER (O/S) (imitating Pamela) Hello, main office? This is Mrs. Fitzgerald. would you page my daughter Brigitte please? I'm waiting to meet her in the guidance office. Thank you so much. 
INT. CLASSROOM - DAY 
Brigitte catches herself writing Sam's name on her binder. She scribbles it out, looking very guilty. 
PA SYSTEM (O/S) Would Brigitte Fitzgerald please report to guidance. Brigitte Fitzgerald. Brigitte freezes. The cop, the teacher, the whole class look at her. Brigitte scoops up her stuff. 
EXT. GUIDANCE OFFICE -- DAY 
Brigitte reaches the door and finds it locked. The door opens a crack and Ginger's transformed arm grabs Brig.iLLe, hauling her inside. The door slams shut and locks. 
INT. GUIDANCE OFFICE - DAY 
GINGER Don't ever fuck with me like that again. 
BRIGITTE You .got out. Brigitte gapes at all the blood. Ginger is very agitated. 
GINGER He asked for it. Was gonna expel me. So. Backing away, Brigitte trips over Mr. Wayne's foot sticking out from under the desk. 
GINGER What do we do, Bee? What do we do? 
Brigitte sinks into a chair looking completely traumatized. Ginger hops about - charged by the kill. 
GINGER C'mon we need a fuckin' plan here! The school bell goes off. Brigitte snaps out of her daze, reaches up and hits the light switch off. They now sit in virtual darkness. 
BRIGITTE Last bell. wait till everyone goes. We'll stuff him someplace. Clean this up. I guess. The sound of the full halls around them seems very loud now. 
GINGER Bee, gotta a smoke? Brigitte hands her a smoke. 
GINGER Sorry about this. 
BRIGITTE Whatever. 
GINGER Don't be mad, ' kay? 
BRIGITTE I'm not mad. 
INT. BAILEY HIGH HALLS - LATER 
The school is deserted. The lock pops on the Guidance door and Brigitte and Ginger peer out. Nobody. 
BRIGITTE Stay here. Lock the door. I'll knock once. Ginger nods. Brigitte slips out and creeps down the corridor. Ginger shuts the door. Then Ginger whips it open again. 
BR IG ITTE Shut the door, Ginger! 
JASON Well, well well.. 
GINGER SNAPS -WALTON/Jufy 15, 1996 76 Jason and his pals climb out of the van. They hold beer bottles: they have come here to drink. 
JASON The fair sisters Fitzgerald. 
GINGER Hey. How's it goin'? 
JASON You tell me. Tim cracks the door and takes a look inside. 
TIM Holy shit - they trashed the place! The guys gawk: they are very impressed. 
BOYS Who--oooaa. Fuck, unbelievable! 
JASON Ginger, I had no idea. 
GINGER What can I say. I had an urgo. 
JASON Cool. But. This is ya know, uh, a bit of a problem. What's gonna happen when they start lookin' for the ah, people responsible? Brigitte glares at Ginger. 
GINGER You won't tell. 
JASON Oh I might. 
GINGER No you won't. 
BRIGITTE Ginger -? 
GINGER Shut up. Shut up. (to Jason) How ' bout a deal. 
JASON Have to be sweet. 
GINGER You keep our lil' secret and I do you. All a' you. Brigitte slumps against the wall. 
JASON 
TIM 
JASON Jason gets the eager nod from his gang. 
JASON Okay, let's go. 
GINGER Not now - I'm a mess. We're (making this up as she goes) having a Halloween party at. our place, Friday night. We'll do it then. 
JASON Yeah, right Saturday. You'll ditch. 
GINGER I won't ditch. But you guys say a word about this to any one, - and there's no action. So it's up to you. You stay quiet, you score. You don't - phhtt - nice knowin' ya. 
JASON Deal. He extends his hand to shake on it. Linger shakes it awkwardly with her good hand. Brigitte thumps her head against the wall. 
INT. GIRLS' BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Ginger leans on the bathroom door, which is shut. 
EXT SERVICE LANE - NIGHT Brigitte trudges up to the bus stop next to the fence of the playhouse yard with her full Adidas bag. Light streams from inside the yard, multi-coloured, strobing. It looks like a UFO has landed on the other side of the fence. She peers through the slats. She sees the playhouse, lit up like a Christmas tree. She sees gloved hands and police uniforms. Then sliding past, the long - almost endless - shape on a stretcher being drawn out of the playhouse: they've found Trina's body. The bus appears, approaching from way down the road. 
Brigitte looks from it to the crime scene. The crime scene photographer's FLASH! pops in Brigitte's face - blinding her for a second. Brigitte rubs her eyes. She shakes her head hard. The bus is indicating, slowing to pull over. Brigitte opens her eyes. The bus is almost here. Brigitte grips her Adidas bag. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) But you can't break up with blood. You can't divorce yer sister. You jus' can't. The bus passes, obscuring Brigitte from view as its body fills frame. when its tail lights pass, Brigitte is far down the street, running like a champion in the direction she came from. 
INT. GIRLS' BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Brigitte carefully unlocks the bedroom door and slowly opens it. The room is dark and just as she left it. Ginger's hed has not been slept in, and she is no where to be seen. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) I'd get the monkshood from my locker at school the next morning. Brigitte creeps to the bathroom and snaps the light on. Empty. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) I'd find Ginger, I'd find out if the stuff even worked. Brigitte locks the window shut. She locks the bedroom door and pushes a bureau of drawers in front of it. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) I could deal with whatever, as long as I tried. If it was the last thing she ever saw me do, it was gonna be me goin' fer somethin' by myself. The real Ginger woulda dug that large. Brigitte turns on the bedside lamp and fishes a baseball bat out of the closet. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) I would try to save my sister when the sun came up. You know, if the sun came up. Brigitte climbs into bed, snuggling the bat in with her. She lights a smoke. She finds the feminine hygiene calendar on the bedside table next to the photo of the girls as kids at Halloween, taken many years before. The calendar tells us it is about to be Friday. Friday is the full moon. Friday is Halloween. 
INT GIRLS' ROOM - DAWN The lamp is still on. The ash tray is full of butts. Brigitte stirs in her sleep. Ginger stands at the end of Brigitte's bed, staring at her. Brigitte snaps to, gripping the bat. Ginger snorts, and climbs into her own bed. Brigitte swings her gaze to the window. It is still shut and locked. The bureau is still in front of the door. Brigitte holds her hat tightly and watches her sister's back in the next bed, terrified. 
EXT. BAILEY HIGH - DAY 
Brigitte jogs up to the school. The yard is full of students. Teachers are marshaling them into lines and seating them on the grass. Brigitte plows through. Ginger rides past, piggy-backed by Jason. Ginger completely ignores Brigitte. Brigitte looks very worried. 
FEMALE STUDENTS Ginger Fitzgerald is such a slut./No kidding./The bitch. 
VARIOUS STUDENTS You hear about Trina Sinclair?/Dug her up in somebody's back yard!/oh that's so sad!/ Poor Trina, Ga-awd! As Brigitte gets closer to the building, she finds police cars and cops at the main entrance. 
BRIGITTE Shit. PRINCIPAL FARDOR is speaking with the RCMP constable who has been visiting classes. Fardor holds a hanky over his face. 
FARDOR That stench near the staff offices, what is that you think? Brigitte hedges up the steps toward the door. 
OFFICER I couldn't say, sir. Now is there anyone you suggest we talk to? Anyone with something against the school? Brigitte slips past the two men. 
FARDOR For god's sake look around you. I got 350 angry young people bored blind.Helluva day for my goddamn cleaning staff to be late ... . IIEY! Brigitte stops at the threshold. 
FARDOR The hell you goin'? 
BR IG ITTE I left something in my locker. 
FARDOR Find your homeroom and wait. School's outta bounds until we call you in. Get! Brigitte backs down the steps, looking like she just took a good slap. She turns to confront the mass confusion around her. Brigitte spots Ginger dancing on the roof of a car in the lot now, surrounded by boys. Brigitte spots Sam's truck near-by. 
EXT. BAILEY HIGH PARKING LOT - DAY 
Sam is sit in his truck, slumped over the wheel. He holds an almost-gone bottle of rye. Brigitte runs up. 
Sam is crying. He doesn't see Brigitte arrive at his window, so she turns to tip-toe away. Sam looks up. His eyes tell us he's stoned. 
SAM Hey. Wolfs bane. Wanna drink? Brigitte stops and turns to face him. Sam dries his face on his sleeve and pops his passenger door. Brigitte looks around and slides in. Ginger is watching Brigitte out of the corner of her eye. 
INT. SAM'S TRUCK - DAY 
SAM I showed up to see Trina? But she's I'm goin' strange in the head. Brigitte doesn't know what to say, so she offers his a smoke. He takes it. 
GINGER SNAPS -WALTON/July 15. 1996 
BOYS Sure, everybody knows! Can I bring my cousin? 
INT. SAM'S TRUCK - DAY 
Sam grabs Brigitte',.s a r as Brigitte grasps the door handle, 1 71m SA M I like you Brigitte F. 
BR IG ITTE What -? 
SAM Like to see ya again. Can I come to yer party too? 
BRIGITTE sh-sure. Sorry. I gotta - Ginger, so. Brigitte slips out of the truck as they stare at one another with that look you get when you're scared because you just kissed someone you really, really like. 
EXT. BAILEY HIGH PARKING LOT - DAY 
Two more squad cars are gliding up the street toward the school. .Brigitte makes her way toward Ginger. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) fie was jus' drunk, I'm thinkin'. I mean he prob'ly din't mean it. Whatever. Beyond Sam's truck, behind Brigitte, the two new cruisers lurch to a stop. Cops approach Sam's vehicle with extreme caution. Brigitte arrives at the car with Ginger as, 
GINGER All a' you guys?! My house! Tonight! (very sinister) I wanna party with everybody. we'll do it till you drop. 
CROWD 
ALL RIGHT, GINGER:::! WHO00- 
HOO! The crowd applauds. Brigitte stares at Ginger like she's watching a cruise missile coming in. Ginger notices Brigitte watching her. Ginger pretends she doesn't see her. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) Ginger was gonna kill every one of l em. A commotion behind them causes everyone to turn. Sam is being dragged from his truck by the cops. He is flung face-first onto the hood and hand-cuffed. 
COP Sam McDonald? You're under arrest for the murder of Trina Sinclair. Brigitte physically fights with herself not to yell out. She runs a few steps toward Sam. Brigitte looks back at Ginger, who drills her with an evil warning glare. The cops shove Sam into the back of a cruiser. They roar off. Brigitte stands alone, apart from the crowd. The cruisers' flashing lights disappear down the street. Brigitte turns to face Ginger, mustering her own first menacing look. Ginger accepts a cigarette offered by one of her boys. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) They closed the school that day. So I never got to my locker. So I never got the monkshood. I thought, this is it. I fucked up. 
EXT. FITZGERALD BUNGALOW - LATE DAY 
The full moon is just making an appearance. Brigitte stands in the front room window, which is decorated with a Happy Halloween paper sign and plastic bats. Brigitte's watching Henry put Styrofoam tombstones in the front yard. 
INT. FTTZGERALD DINING ROOM - LATE DAY 
The Fitzgerald family is eating. Brigitte pokes at her food. Ginger eats like a fiend, with sunglasses on. Her monster arm has been wrapped in gauze from tip to elbow. 
PAMELA Now just remember, no boys in you bedroom during this party. Your room is off limits. Ginger are you sure that arm's not sprained, or worse? 
GINGER Bruise. Lacrosse. 
PAMELA Mm Henry when'd you get this new meat from Tinny's? Quite nice. Brigitte and Ginger exchange a look. 
HENRY I haven't been to Tinny's. 
PAMELA Then where's all the packs marked "t" come from -? Brigitte spits out her food. 
BRIGITTE I be excused? 
GINGER SNAPS - WALTON/July 15. 1996 92 Brigitte walks through to the door with a sign, OFF LIMITS. Brigitte unlocks the door and slips the monkshood up her shirt. 
INT. BEDROOM - DUSK 
Candles are burning all over. Ginger's bed is turned down, ready. Brigitte walks in on Jason climbing through the open window. 
JASON Hey. Must be the place, right? Brigitte sneers at him. He holds a half-gone bottle of schnapps, a dress shirt and his Good Jeans on. The toilet flushes in the john. Brigitte knocks on the door. 
GINGER 
WHAT1 
BRIGITTE McCardy's here. The bathroom door unlocks but. remains closed. 
GINGER Git in here an, gimme a hand. Brigitte casts an uncertain look at Jason. 
JASON C'mon ladies, there's six other guys sitting in the shrub waiting. Brigitte's face darkens. She slips into the bathroom and shuts the door. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) Do you think some people deserve to die? 
INT. GIRLS BATHROOM - NIGHT 
Brigitte does not tryo to hide her fear of being in a confined space with Ginger. There are razors and whiskers all over the floor. shaving cream every where. Ginger is red- faced, sweating and hostile. 
GINGER Don't say a fuckin' word. Ginger lowers the towel she's wearing enough to show the bump on her butt is now a twitching tail. Brigitte gasps. 
GINGER Take this gauze and tie it flat. 
BRIGITTE Ginger, you can't 
GINGER 
DO IT! Brigitte takes the roll of gauze. She grabs the tail between her fingers and coils it up with utter disgust. Brigitte's hands tremble. 
EXT. GIRLS BEDROOM - MEANWHILE/NIGHT 
Jason sits on the edge of Ginger's bed and bounces up and down a bit. Between his legs we glimpse a dog tag hanging between the mattresses. 
TNT GIRLS BATHROOM - NIGHT Brigitte tapes the gauze in place. Ginger throws a robe on and grabs the door. 
GINGER Now get outta my life. Brigitte grits her teeth. 
BRIGITTE I gotta get ready for the party. 
GINGER Then wait here till I'm done. 
BRIGITTE What, through all fifty a' them? 
GINGER Oh, don't tempt me. Ginger takes a deep breath before she opens the bathroom door. Her breath is ragged. She smoothes her hair and chews her lip. She's nervous. Ginger opens the door and closes it behind her. 
GINGER SNAPS- WALTON/July 22, 1996 94 Brigitte hears, 
JASON (O/S) It's really dark in here. 
BRIGITTE Yeah, she's gone all right. Hey. can you do me a favor? 
SAM Sure. 
BRIGITTE Can you give somethin' to Ginger for me? Jus' - we're Navin' a fight, but I got this thing for her. 
SAM Yeah, what. Brigitte shows him what appears to be a joint. Sam takes it. 
BR IG ITTE Don't tell her I gave it to you. Jus' act like it's from you. She won't take it if it's from me. 
SAM Oh, okay. 
BR IG ITTE An, don't like, go any wheres with her. Okay? Jus' come right back, 'kay? 
SAM Gonna miss me Bee F.? Brigitte smiles, embarrassed and freaking at the exact same time. 
SAM Be right back. 
GINGER SNAPS- WALTON/July 15. 1996 98 Across the densely crowded room, Sam whispers in Ginger's ear. Ginger smiles and nods and palms something he passes her. Ginger glances at Brigitte, who tries to pretend she's not watching. when Brigitte checks again, Ginger is leading Sam by the hand toward her bedroom. Sam looks over his shoulder and lifts a finger - one second - back at Brigitte. The bedroom door shuts behind them. Brigitte leaps toward the bedroom. Someone catches her arm and holds her back. 
PAMELA one minute young lady, I could use a little help here. 
BR I G ITTE Let go of me, I have to get Ginger! 
PAMELA I have to get two more veggie trays down those stairs. I think your sister' 11 be fine for two minutes. Pamela is already marching Brigitte up the stairs. Brigitte strains to get back. Looking between her mother and her closed bedroom door, desperately. 
INT. FITZGERALD BASEMENT PROPER - MINUTES LATER 
Pamela snags Brigitte again as Brigitte dumps the veggie tray and tries to get to the bedroom. 
PAMELA All these boys came to see you two, least you can do is stop hiding in your room. Honestly, you act like someone'd forced this party down your throat. Now go be nice. Pamela stands between Brigitte and the bedroom door, her arms folded. 
BRIGITTE Mother. You don't understand. 
PAMELA Yes--I do. I was shy too at your age. Mingle. 
Brigitte backs away with such a dirty look on her face. She turns to confront the eager painted faces around her - all desperate for some female attention. Brigitte has I want to scream written all over her face. 
INT. GIRLS BEDROOM - MEANWHILE/NIGHT 
Sam pushes Ginger away from him. Ginger has Brigitte's gift joint smoldering between her finger tips. Ginger is pretty out of it, she totters. 
SAM okay, cut it out now. 
GINGER This dope's fucked. Makin' me blaarrggh. C'mon. I'll do ya. 
SAM No thanks. Told yer sister I'd be right back. 
GINGER What's up your ass?! 
SAM Don't get mean, s'nothin' personal. I happen to think Brigitte's pretty cool. and -/ 
GINGER Leave my baby sister alone. Do me, don't hurt her. 
GINGER Oooh nooo. 
BRIGITTE Don't worry. Keep pressing. T'll be right back. 
INT GIRLS' BEDROOM - NIGH'T' 
Sam is fingering his wounds, half-conscious, drooling bile and blood. Brigitte (still a zombie) looms up behind him with her baseball bat. She fishes in his pants' pocket and withdraws a set of keys. 
BRIGITTE Hey. Sorry. I really did think you were. Like. Not bad. So you know, whatever. Any ways. I'm really sorry - I have to. Sam moans as his good eye rolls up at her. Brigitte blinks away tears and looks away, collecting herself. Brigitte raises the bat over her head and swings it down as 
INT. FITZGERALD BASEMENT PROPER - MINUTES LATER 
The party is rocking along. Pamela knocks on their door. 
PAMELA Girls? You in there? You're not being very sociable... There's no answer. She tries the knob, and is surprised to find it unlocked. She opens the door. She turns on the lights. Pamela takes in the bloody muck everywhere. The room is deserted. No Sam. No sisters Fitzgerald. Just gore. Pamela swoons and drops like a deadweight to the floor. Henry rushes up, looking in over his wife's body. The boys in costume crowd in behind him. 
HENRY Pamela, honey, it's just a prank, you know how they... (he fingers some 
GORE) Holy mother of - it's warm. Where are my kids?!! 
GUY WITH AX IN THE HEAD Ginger went in here with Sam McDonald a while back. 
HENRY Sam McDonald? 
GUY WITH EYE MISSING Yeah, you know. The guy they thought was the Beast, but they let 'im go. Henry steps into the room. He spots a bloody trail up to the open ground-level window. 
EXT FITZGERALD HOME - NIGHT Tires squeal in the street and the county regreening truck lurches out of its parking spot. 
INT. TRUCK - NIGHT 
Brigitte (still a zombie) throws the truck into gear with an amateur's hand. Her Adidas bag and her jar of two dollar bills is on the seat next to her. Ginger is just seen through the grate between the cab and the dark back of the truck. 
BRIGITTE (V/O) Plans, plans arc good. 'Course I hardly had one. Adrenaline though, adrenaline is pretty speedy shit. 
BRIGITTE Ginger?! Don't eat the body okay? I got this idea, an' we'll need Sam. Brigitte floors it and the truck blasts down their cul du sac to the main road. 
EXT. STREETS/TRAVELING - NIGHT 
The truck speeds down the street a tad erratical ly. Sirens rise around it. 
INT. THE TRUCK - NIGHT 
Brigitte slows, looking left, right and in the side mirrors trying to see where the sirens are coming from. 
BRIGITTE Fuck, fuck fuck, FUCK. 
Then suddenly, four cop cars blast past them in the opposite direction. Heading back to the Fitzgerald house. 
BRIGITTE Ha! All rightie then. Brigitte drives on. What she cannot see behind her in the grate are the glimpses of Ginger in the flickering lights of the passing street lamps. Her final spurt of transformation is taking place: FLASH! Her face is filling in with fur. FLASH! Her eyes glow golden, yellow, wolfen. FLASH! Her face pulls into a wet snout. FLASH! A long pink tongue lolls out between glistening white fangs. 
EXT. THE HILLCREST - NIGHT 
The truck rolls to the crest of the hill over Bailey Downs - the sight of the bush party. The moon is immense up here. You could almost touch it. 
