GLADIATOR 
by 
David Franzoni 
Revised by John Logan 
SECOND DRAFT 
October 22, 1998 
"While stands the Colosseum, Rome shall stand. When falls the Colosseum, Rome shall fall. And when Rome falls -- the World." 
Byron 
FADE IN: 
EXT.  FOREST - DAY 
Germania.  The far reaches of the Roman Empire. 
Winter 180 A.D. 
Incongruously enough, the first sound we hear is a beautiful tenor voice.  Singing.  A boy's voice. 
CREDITS as we hear the haunting song float through dense forests.  We finally come to a rough, muddy road slashing through the forest.  On the road a GERMAN PEASANT FATHER is herding along three sickly looking cows.  His two SONS are with him.  His youngest son sits on one of the cows and sings a soft, plaintive song. 
They become aware of another sound behind them on the road -- the creak of wood, the slap of metal on leather.  The Father immediately leads his cattle and his sons off the road.  They stand-still, eyes down:  the familiar posture of subjugated peoples throughout history. 
A wagon train rumbles past them.  Three ornate wagons followed by a mounted cohort of fifty heavily-armed PRAETORIAN GUARDS. 
The young boy dares to glance up at the passing Romans. His eyes burn with hatred. 
INT.  WAGON - DAY 
Mist momentarily obscures a man's face.  Frozen breath. The man is in his 20's, imperious and handsome.  He is swathed in fur, only his face exposed.  He is COMMODUS. 
He glances up. 
COMMODUS Do you think he's really dying? 
The woman across from him returns his gaze evenly.  She is slightly older, beautiful and patrician.  A formidable woman. 
She is LUCILLA. 
LUCILLA He's been dying for ten years. 
COMMODUS I think he's really dying this time. 
A beat.  Their breath turns instantly to mist. 
COMMODUS He has to be bled every night now. 
LUCILLA How do you know that? 
COMMODUS I've been so informed. 
She arches an eyebrow. 
COMMODUS If he weren't really dying he wouldn't have sent for us. 
LUCILLA (a smile) Maybe he just misses us. 
COMMODUS And the Senators.  He wouldn't have summoned them if -- 
LUCILLA Peace, Commodus.  After two weeks on the road your incessant scheming is hurting my head. 
A beat. 
COMMODUS The first thing I shall do is honor him with games worthy of his majesty. 
LUCILLA The first thing I shall do is have a hot bath. 
The wagon rumbles to a halt.  Voices are heard outside. 
Commodus leaps out... 
EXT.  WAGON - OUTPOST - DAY 
Three Roman SOLDIERS guard an outpost, a watchtower, on the roadside. 
COMMODUS Why have we stopped? 
PRAETORIAN GUARD MEMBER We're here, sir. 
MAXIMUS (to his men) Hold steady... steady... 
He can see the nightmare destruction of the encampment continuing -- fire pots and Scorpion bolts and flaming arrows -- panic in the German encampment. 
MAXIMUS Steady... 
He sees the Germans begin fleeing across the plain.  He quickly raises his sword and whispers a prayer, then turns to his men: 
MAXIMUS Brothers -- I salute you!  For Rome! 
He spurs his horse and races out of the trees to the plain... 
EXT.  PLAIN - BATTLEGROUND - TWILIGHT 
Maximus leads the terrifying and relentless cavalry charge -- Titus at his side -- the Felix Regiment screams out fearsome war cries as they gallop across the muddy plain toward the Germans -- 
Fire pots and flaming arrows are crashing down everywhere around them -- 
The cavalry SLAMS into the Germans at full gallop -- 
It is carnage. 
The Felix Regiment warriors slash ruthlessly with short swords -- slicing a path of sheer destruction through the Germans -- but the Germans fight with equal brutality -- and the Germans also fight with the desperation of a hopeless last chance -- they pull and spear Roman soldiers off horses whenever they can -- 
Maximus spins his horse and swings his sword with expert efficiency -- a spear stabs through the neck of his horse and it immediately collapses forward -- 
Maximus sails over the horse's head and crashes to the muddy ground -- he jumps up and is in the midst of the battle -- 
The flaming arrows and exploding fire pots create a ferocious inferno everywhere around the battle -- the flames silhouetting the fighting -- 
On the ground, Maximus proves his absolute worth as a warrior -- he hacks and dodges -- ghastly images of true ancient warfare -- Maximus' eyes burn with a zealous fire as he fights for his life -- 
He finds he is momentarily at a terrible disadvantage -- Germans are surrounding him from all sides -- as he fights he looks for an advantage -- for his soldiers -- for anything -- he is doomed -- 
Then -- an almost mystical image -- Maximus' wolf leaps through a wall of flame -- 
"The Wolf of Rome" savages several Germans around Maximus -- giving him the help he needed. 
The wolf and his master fight, side-by-side. 
EXT.  HILLTOP - TWILIGHT 
We see an old man's face, staring down at the battle.  The face is weather-beaten, ailing.  The roaring flames from the battlefield below flicker in his sad eyes. 
MARCUS AURELIUS, the Emperor of Rome, is on a horse.  A metal brace extends from the back of his saddle.  He is strapped to the brace with thick, leather straps. 
He watches as the Felix Regiment below concludes the battle.  The cheering of the Regiment can be heard as the final, isolated pockets of Germans are cut down. 
Behind Marcus the sun is setting, painting the world blood red. 
EXT.  BATTLEFIELD - SUNSET 
Maximus, bloody and spent, walks through the aftermath of the carnage.  The Wolf of Rome is at his side.  Dead and dying by the hundreds are scattered everywhere.  Roman surgeons are attending to the wounded. 
Marcus walks to him, embraces him warmly. 
MAXIMUS Caesar. 
MARCUS Maximus, you prove your valor again. Let us hope for the final time here. 
MAXIMUS I don't think there's anyone left to fight. 
MARCUS There are always people left to fight... 
Marcus takes Maximus' arm and they walk through the masses of bodies.  Maximus holds Marcus' arm firmly, quietly supporting him as they walk. 
MARCUS But this night, at least, Germania is at last defeated... What will you do now, my friend? 
MAXIMUS Should Caesar permit, I'll go home. I've been away too long.  I've forgotten my wife's face and I barely know my son. 
Suddenly, a tethered GERMAN PRISONER they are passing calls out to them: 
GERMAN PRISONER THIS BLOOD MEANS NOTHING, CONQUEROR! 
Maximus and Marcus stop.  A soldier moves quickly to silence the German Prisoner. 
MARCUS (to Soldier) Stop... (to Prisoner) ... You speak our language? 
GERMAN PRISONER You have been in my homeland for twelve years.  Of course I speak your language.  So did my son, who you murdered.  So did my daughter, who you raped. 
MAXIMUS (to Marcus) Come, Caesar... 
MARCUS No.  Let him speak... (to Prisoner) ... I am Rome, what would you say to me? 
GERMAN PRISONER (points to sunset) You are that sun, Rome, and your time is over... You can slit a thousand throats here, and you can put a thousand babies to the sword, but it will always be our home. 
He turns and stalks away. 
EXT.  TENT CITY - NIGHT 
We see the Roman encampment, a sea of tents.  Hundreds of campfires burn before the tents. 
INT.  HOSPITAL TENT - NIGHT 
Maximus enters a large tent and is met by a spectacle of the dead and dying.  Roman surgeons are working feverishly to save lives.  Limbs are amputated, the bloody stumps quickly cauterized with hot irons.  Leeches and bronze cups are employed for blood-letting to balance "humours." 
Anesthesia as we know it is nonexistent.  Wine amphoras are passed around and orderlies fan narcotic smoke toward the patients.  Mostly, though, they just hold down the writhing patients. 
Maximus moves through the tent, offering a word of comfort here and there.  All the wounded are delighted to see him. 
He goes to an older soldier, GALLUS, who has one wooden hand.  His other hand is bandaged. 
MAXIMUS What, Gallus, losing your other hand? 
GALLUS Aye, General, they're going to make a bronze one for it.  Long fingers this time. 
MAXIMUS And the women of your village will crave your touch even more. 
GALLUS Ah, then you know the women of my village. 
Maximus smiles and moves on. 
He stops at a young soldier, VALERIUS, whose head has been shaved.  A hole has been bored into his skull to relieve the pressure on his brain.  The young soldier is dying. 
MAXIMUS What's your name, son? 
VALERIUS Valerius, General. 
MAXIMUS The name suits you. 
VALERIUS Why am I dying? 
A beat.  Maximus sits by his cot.  He takes Valerius' hand. 
MAXIMUS You're dying because you love Rome, as I do. 
VALERIUS I've never been to Rome. 
MAXIMUS Neither have I.  Rome for us lives here... (he touches his heart) ... it's a thing inside us that came from our ancestors and that we give to our children. 
VALERIUS It must be glorious, Rome.  I've only seen pictures.  Is it a glorious place? 
A beat. 
MAXIMUS Yes, it's a glorious place. 
VALERIUS It must be. 
He smiles.  And he is dead. 
Maximus sits for a moment.  He gently closes Valerius' eyes.  And Maximus finds that he is weeping. 
He is not ashamed of the tears. 
INT.  MESS TENT - NIGHT 
An immediate swirl of noise.  The grand mess tent is crowded with soldiers.  They are still filthy with caked- on mud and blood.  Wounds are bandaged and tankards are raised in celebration of the victory. 
Marcus sits in a central position and receives visitors. Currently two Senators, FALCO and GAIUS, are bowing before him. 
FALCO Hail, Marcus Aurelius. 
MARCUS Stand up, Senators.  That unfamiliar posture doesn't suit you. 
GAIUS We live in supplication to your glory. 
MARCUS All the while conspiring with that fat man in Rome.  How is the old monster? 
GAIUS Senator Gracchus is hale, sire. 
MARCUS Still damning me to the four winds? 
GAIUS Still eager for your triumphant return to Rome, Caesar. 
MARCUS I would have silenced him decades ago -- but I just like him too much. 
Meanwhile, Maximus stands with his lieutenants, Titus and Quintus.  A wound on Maximus' arm has been bound. 
MAXIMUS (to Titus) If you want to stay on, I support you.  So do the men.  I'll ask the Emperor to appoint you in my place. 
TITUS It won't be the Felix Regiment without you. 
She turns to him.  He leaves his body slaves and goes to her. 
LUCILLA Father. 
MARCUS What a Caesar you would have made. 
LUCILLA You're right. 
MARCUS I think you would have been strong. I wonder if you would have been just? 
LUCILLA I would have been what you taught me to be. 
A beat.  They stare at each other.  He finally smiles. 
MARCUS Well, pretend to be my loving daughter tonight and walk with me to my chamber. 
She smiles and takes his arm.  They slowly walk down the tent corridor as: 
MARCUS This is a pleasant fiction, isn't it? 
They disappear into darkness. 
EXT.  TENT CITY - DAWN 
Maximus is slogging through the mud and snow that blankets the Rome camp.  He stops to observe an unusual sight. 
Commodus is stripped almost naked, his chiseled body covered in a fine sheen of sweat.  He and his six CENTURION BODY GUARDS are going through their daily ritual.  They defy the sub-zero temperatures and hack at small trees with swords. 
It is an eerie, zen-like workout.  Commodus' intense concentration is unnerving. 
Maximus watches for a moment then moves on.  He approaches a large network of tents.  He enters. 
INT.  MARCUS' TENT - DAY 
Maximus enters Marcus' darkened tent.  Flickering braziers provide the only light in the enormous Imperial tent. Heavy beams support the canopy and they creak like the timbers of a ship as the tent sways slightly in the wind. 
Marcus stands before a map of the Roman Empire. 
MAXIMUS (bows) Caesar. 
Marcus holds out a scroll. 
MARCUS Read this. 
MAXIMUS I never acquired the art, sir. 
MARCUS Of course.  No matter.  In this letter I denote my intention to nominate you to stand for the Emperorship after my death. 
A stunned pause.  Maximus stares at him. 
MARCUS My son is not a moral man.  You have known this since you were young.  He cannot rule. 
MAXIMUS Caesar, I am honored but -- 
MARCUS For twenty years I have been spilling blood.  For twenty years I have written philosophy and ruminated and conquered.  Since I became Caesar I have only had four years without war.  Four years of peace in twenty.  So perhaps I can be... forgiven. 
A long beat. 
MARCUS While I have been fighting, Rome has grown mad and corpulent and diseased.  I did this.  And now I shall make it right. 
MAXIMUS Sire, you brought the light of the Gods to barbarian darkness.  You brought civilization and justice to the farthest -- 
MARCUS (fierce) I have brought the sword -- nothing more!  Rome is far away and we shouldn't be here.  What matter is it to the Gods if we subdue one more tribe of Parthians or Gauls?  What matter is it to Rome if a thousand more barbarians bend to our lash? 
A beat. 
Marcus sits.  He doesn't look at Maximus. 
A pause. 
MARCUS Winter, Maximus.  It's winter now... 
A beat. 
MARCUS There was a dream that was Rome.  I can only whisper of it now. Anything more than a whisper and the dream vanishes.  It's so... fragile. The true glory of Rome is in a very fragile idea.  Imagine a place devoted to the rights of the citizen.  Where every free man has a voice.  That was the dream... And I fear it will not survive the winter. 
He holds out a hand to Maximus.  Maximus takes his hand, deeply moved, kneeling. 
MARCUS Let's just whisper here, you and I. 
MAXIMUS Yes, Caesar. 
MARCUS If the dream is ever to live again the people must have a true voice. The voice I took from them.  That all the Caesars took from them, bit by bit, conquest by conquest.  And now that I am dying I am going to give them that voice again. 
MAXIMUS You're not dying. 
She smiles sadly. 
LUCILLA There was a time when you didn't call me "Highness." 
MAXIMUS And there was a time when you were just a little girl drowning in the sea.  All that was a different life. 
LUCILLA (quietly) Very different... I wonder if it was better? 
MAXIMUS It was more honest. 
A moment between them.  We sense there is much to be said, much that could be said. 
Finally: 
MAXIMUS I thank you for your prayers. 
He goes.  She watches him walk away. 
INT.  MAXIMUS' TENT - NIGHT 
Maximus kneels before a small altar in his tent.  He faces six small figures that represent his dead ancestors. 
MAXIMUS Ancestors, true bloodline, I ask you for your guidance.  Bring me your solace and your wisdom.  Blessed Mother, come to me in my dreams with the Gods' desire for my future. Blessed Father, watch over my wife and my son with a ready sword.  Keep them safe until my return.  Whisper to them in their sleep that I live only to hold them again and all else is dust and air.  Ancestors, true bloodline, I honor you and will try to live with the dignity you have taught me. 
He looks at his "ancestors" for a moment and then blows out the candles around them. 
INT.  MARCUS' TENT - NIGHT 
Commodus' eyes are red with weeping.  He sits, head down, at the foot of Marcus' bed and speaks to his father. 
COMMODUS (quietly) I search the faces of the Gods for ways to please you... to make you proud... and I can never do it.  One kind word -- one full hug where you pressed me to your chest and held me tight -- would have been like the sun on my heart for a thousand years... What is it in me you hate so much?  My eyes are your eyes.  My hands are your hands.  All I have ever wanted was to live up to you. Caesar.  Father. 
He stands.  We see that he is holding the scroll denoting Marcus' intention to nominate Maximus as Emperor to the Senate.  Commodus cannot control his tears. 
COMMODUS Why does Maximus deserve what I could never have? -- Why do you love his eyes over mine? -- I would butcher the whole world -- if you would only love me... 
Commodus weeps. 
INT.  MAXIMUS' TENT - NIGHT 
Quintus is waking Maximus -- 
QUINTUS General -- Maximus -- 
MAXIMUS Quintus -- ? 
QUINTUS The Emperor needs you.  It's urgent. 
Maximus leaps up and throws on a cloak, strides out with Quintus... 
EXT.  TENT CITY - NIGHT 
Dead of night.  Maximus and Quintus stride quickly through the sleeping camp toward Marcus' tent. 
MAXIMUS What is it?  Is he ill? 
QUINTUS I don't know... 
They continue on toward Marcus' tent. 
INT.  MARCUS' TENT - NIGHT 
Maximus and Quintus stride into the tent -- Maximus slams to a halt.  Stunned. 
Commodus stands before him.  Lucilla stands in a corner of the tent, head down. 
And Marcus Aurelius dead, lying on his bed. 
Maximus stares at Marcus. 
COMMODUS Lament with me, brother, our great father is dead.  I want -- 
Maximus, not even hearing, steps past him to Marcus. 
He stands for a moment and then slowly kneels before Marcus and gently kisses the old man's forehead.  A ritual farewell. 
A moment of silent mourning and then Maximus stands.  He turns very, very slowly to Commodus. 
COMMODUS General, the Gods' have taken the great man and left me alone.  My first desire as Emperor is that you take my hand in friendship.  I need you at my side, Maximus, at this moment above all others.  Stand with me. 
Maximus glares at him: 
MAXIMUS How did he die? 
Commodus does not respond. 
ASSASSIN #3 Not like this, exactly... this is good, you can stop. 
They stop.  They are far down the hill, out of sight of the road. 
MAXIMUS It can be very messy -- you could get blood all over your armor.  You don't want to hack me up now.  You want one clean stroke. 
ASSASSIN #3 Would you kneel, General? 
Maximus kneels, his whole body secretly coiling.  Assassin #3 stands over him as: 
MAXIMUS One good stroke -- you do know where, don't you? 
ASSASSIN #4 Be quiet. 
MAXIMUS If you miss the spot there'll be blood everywhere.  Quite a spray. 
ASSASSINS #3 All right, where? 
MAXIMUS Here -- you don't want to hit the vein on the neck -- 
Maximus points his bound hands at a spot on the back of his neck. 
MAXIMUS Put the point of your sword here... you want one, good blow right at this spot -- 
Assassin #3 dutifully puts the point of his sword on the spot on Maximus' neck. 
A grave mistake. 
Maximus instantly grabs the blade of the sword with his hands and yanks it from Assassin #3 -- EXPLODING up -- his hands are bleeding but he tosses the sword into the air and catches it -- swings the sword with brutal efficiency -- decapitating both assassins -- 
EXT.  FOREST ROAD - DAWN 
On the road above, the other two Assassins are on their horses, waiting. 
They hear a quick yelp from below.  And then nothing. 
Assassin #1 nods for Assassin #2 to check on the execution.  Assassin #2 canters off the road and down the hill... 
EXT.  FOREST - BELOW THE ROAD - DAWN 
Assassin #2 canters down the hillside. 
He senses movement behind him -- spins around, drawing his sword -- too late -- 
Maximus throws a sword -- it flashes through the air -- and into Assassin #2. 
EXT.  FOREST ROAD - DAWN 
Assassin #1 waits on his horse.  He hears the commotion below -- spins his horse around just as Maximus bursts to the road.  He stands with a sword. 
Assassin #1 spurs his horse and gallops toward Maximus at full speed -- Maximus crouches and prepares -- 
Assassin #1 and Maximus swirl together for an instant -- both slashing brutally -- 
Assassin #1 continues to gallop past Maximus.  He stops. He looks down.  A wound in his stomach.  He falls off his horse.  Dead. 
Maximus has also been wounded -- a deep gash on his side. He fights the pain as he moves toward the horses... 
EXT.  FOREST ROAD - DAY 
Maximus is galloping through the forest at lightning speed, leading four horses behind him.  The gash in his side bleeding. 
EXT.  TENT CITY - DAY 
A gloomy day.  Emperor Commodus stands before the assembled Felix Regiment. 
The soldiers are already uneasy.  They note Quintus standing by Commodus, wearing Maximus' seal of office. Where is Maximus? 
COMMODUS Even as the Gods curse this dark day with clouds, so too does the sun begin to shine forth on a promised tomorrow.  Even as we mourn the passing of our father, so too do we celebrate the coming of a bright, new age for Rome.  At my side, brothers, you shall pull fresh glories from the heavens.  At my side, brothers, you shall know the adoration of the Gods.  Doubly-dark is this day because my friend, your noble commander Maximus Meridas, has been called to Rome to deal with urgent matters of state... 
Titus glances quickly to Gallus, whose hand is bandaged from surgery.  They know this cannot be true. 
COMMODUS Until his promised return I appointed Quintus Domitian to serve in his stead.  I salute you, Legionnaires! 
QUINTUS (raising his sword) Hail, Caesar! 
The Felix Regiment responds, many unsure. 
FELIX REGIMENT Hail, Caesar! 
Commodus strides off and the Felix Regiment slowly disbands, muttering to one another in confusion. 
Titus and Gallus go to Quintus. 
TITUS Quintus, what is -- ? 
JUBA I almost killed once.  The Romans destroyed my village.  I was with a hunting party and when we returned... I would have killed every Roman in the world. 
A long beat. 
JUBA If you don't eat you will die. 
Maximus does not respond. 
A beat. 
JUBA In the village I come from there was a man once.  He went fishing one day and his boat was attacked by crocodiles.  One of them ate his leg.  He pulled himself to the shore and a lion attacked him.  It ate one of his arms.  He dragged himself through the desert on the way home and a scorpion stung his eye.  So he only had one eye.  When he reached the village I sat with him.  I said, "You have lost a leg, an arm and one eye.  You must have a mighty will to live."  He said, "No, Lord, it's just better than the alternative." 
Maximus finally looks at him. 
JUBA Life is a gift from our fathers to us.  Who are you to give it up for lack of lifting a spoon? 
Maximus does not respond. 
EXT.  PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - COMPOUND - NIGHT 
Maximus and Juba are being observed.  Proximo stands in the shadows of the compound and watches intently. 
EXT.  SLAVE WAGON - PROVINCIAL STREETS - DAY 
Blood appears to be flowing across an oxen's back.  But the blood is too rich, too red. 
The oxen are pulling an open slave wagon through the crowded streets of the town.  Hanging above the street is dyed wool drying in the sun.  Vermilion and crimson dyes drip down and splash across the oxen -- and splash across the gladiators. 
Maximus, Juba, the formidable Vibius are chained in the back of the wagon.  Also the frightened Scribe. 
Proximo and a few of his guards drive the wagon.  Proximo has an umbrella over him, colored with years of dripping dyes. 
They pass a banner honoring Vibius, the star of Proximo's stable. 
Meanwhile, the terrified Scribe is almost weeping, chattering nervously to Vibius, chained next to him: 
SCRIBE I know nothing of armaments and warfare!  I'm a scribe -- I write down words!  I can write down seven languages -- 
VIBIUS Be still. 
SCRIBE I don't -- how do you hold the sword?!  I've never held a sword! 
VIBIUS You point the sharp end at your opponent and you shove it in his guts. 
SCRIBE I can't -- I -- 
He suddenly vomits. 
VIBIUS (calling to Proximo) Proximo!  You insult me with this carrion!  Chain him to someone else! 
PROXIMO (calling back) Don't worry, noble Vibius, he won't be bothering you for long. 
The Scribe begins to weep. 
The crowds in the street jeer at the passing gladiators. Occasionally throwing trash at them.  A pack of children run alongside the wagon, chanting: 
CHILDREN Dead guts!  Dead guts!  Dead guts! 
Maximus watches the children for a moment and then another sight draws his attention.  Over some buildings he can see vultures circling in the distance. 
EXT.  PROVINCIAL ARENA - DUGOUT - DAY 
In the cramped holding area of the arena, a dugout beneath the stands, Maximus and the other gladiators are waiting. 
Proximo walks before them, giving a final "pep talk."  He gazes at them evenly, his eyes going from face to face. 
PROXIMO Some of you say you can't fight, you won't fight... They all say that... But one day you will pick up a sword and thrust it into another man.  And the crowd will cheer you and love you.  And you will love them for it. On that day... you will be a gladiator. 
He stops at Maximus. 
PROXIMO In this life, we all die.  All we can choose is how we die.  And how we are remembered.  Be remembered proudly. 
Drums are heard from the arena.  Proximo nods to a waiting blacksmith. 
The blacksmith begins slamming shackles on the gladiator's wrists -- chaining them together in teams of two by a chain about four feet long. 
The blacksmith is about to chain Maximus to the Scribe. 
PROXIMO No... (he points to Juba) ... give the Spaniard to him.  Give the Scribe to Vibius. 
Proximo nods to Vibius, who, for reasons we shall soon see, makes no protest to being chained to the whimpering Scribe. 
Proximo watches the blacksmith shackle Maximus and Juba together and then strides off. 
JUBA (to Maximus) Are we going to fight each other? 
CHILD We honor Caesar with the laurel to show our love and appreciation for his benevolence. 
COMMODUS Caesar is honored to accept your tribute, Citizen Scholar. 
The child smiles and moves back to his fellows. 
COMMODUS (to all) It is the most sacred duty of the Emperor to oversee the education of the young.  If I could leave no other legacy than the scholarship of all children my life would be blessed.  Tutors, you hold the future of Rome in your hands.  Teach them well so that they will bring honor to the Empire.  I salute you. 
Commodus actually bows before them, an unimaginable honor. 
The tutors bow in response and herd the children out. 
COMMODUS Look at them, Senators... my truest gift to Rome. 
GRACCHUS Darling children, to be sure, now if I may proceed? 
COMMODUS (sighs) Very well... 
Commodus moves to the desk, standing over it and gazing at Marcus' scrolls as: 
GRACCHUS Caesar, your presence in Rome is an invaluable opportunity to begin correcting some of the ills that have beset the city since your father went to the wars.  We would like to -- 
COMMODUS Peace, good Gracchus, peace... 
Commodus slowly begins pushing Marcus' papyrus scrolls off the desk to the floor, one by one, as: 
COMMODUS My beloved father was a careless shepherd to his flock.  I shall be a good father to my children.  I shall remain in Rome and show them how they are loved. 
GRACCHUS With respect, sire, the people don't need love -- they need law.  The Senate has prepared a series of protocols to begin addressing the corruption in the city -- (Gaius hands him a scroll) -- starting with basic sanitation in the Hebrew Quarter.  If Caesar could study this and -- 
COMMODUS You see that's the very problem, isn't it, my old, old friend?  My father spent all his time at study. At books and learning and philosophy... 
As Commodus speaks he moves to the chair behind the desk, tries it, doesn't like it, nods to a slave.  The chair is whisked away. 
COMMODUS He spent his twilight hours reading scrolls from the Senate.  All the while, the people were forgotten. 
GRACCHUS The Senate is the people. 
COMMODUS I doubt many of the people eat so well as you do, Senator Gracchus... 
As Commodus speaks he moves to the bust of Marcus, studies it, doesn't like it, nods to a slave and the bust is whisked away.  Lucilla watches this closely. 
COMMODUS I doubt many of the people have such splendid armor, Captain Marcellus. Or such fine mistresses, Senator Gaius.  No... only their true father knows what the people need.  I shall show them they are loved.  I shall hold them to my bosom and embrace them tightly -- 
GRACCHUS Have you ever embraced someone dying of plague, sire? 
Commodus stops.  Looks at him.  A lethal moment. 
COMMODUS No.  But if you interrupt me one more time I assure you that you shall.  I will emulate the immortal Caesars of the past.  I will give the people what they truly want. Starting this day I will draw all of Rome to the Colosseum.  I will give them bread.  And they will want nothing more. 
Startled looks between Gracchus, Gaius and Marcellus. 
GRACCHUS You want to hold games? 
COMMODUS Not just any games, Senator!  A series of games that will make the Gods envious and leave my children happy!  I will subsidize the arena from this day forth -- and I will culminate this celebration in a great spectacle the likes of which the world has never seen!  A great spectacle to honor my father! Magnificent, unending weeks of festivity all in the name of Marcus Aurelius! 
A beat. 
GRACCHUS If I may, Caesar... how are you going to pay for this? 
COMMODUS That is not your concern. 
Gracchus ignores a warning look from Gaius. 
GRACCHUS Respectfully, sire, taxation and import duties are the exclusive province of the Senate -- 
Commodus spins on him so quickly and with such feral violence that everyone is shocked -- 
COMMODUS MY FATHER DESERVES TO BE HONORED AND I WILL HONOR HIM! -- AND THE PEOPLE WILL LOVE ME! -- AND THE SENATE WILL OBEY ME OR EVERY ONE OF YOU WILL BURN!  BURN!  BURN! -- I WILL HAVE ORDER! 
He snarls like a great jungle cat and he stalks away. Senator Falco quickly follows. 
A dreadful silence. 
Then: 
LUCILLA Gentlemen, in the future do not concern my brother with these matters.  Come to me. 
She sweeps out. 
A beat. 
MARCELLUS Games?  He wants to hold games? 
GAIUS It's madness. 
A beat.  Proximo studies him. 
PROXIMO You fight like a soldier.  You have wounds like a soldier who has been on long campaigns.  You eye the world around you like an enemy. What is your name, Roman soldier? 
MAXIMUS Gladiator. 
A beat. 
PROXIMO And nothing more? 
MAXIMUS Nothing more. 
A beat. 
Proximo watches Maximus very closely for the following: 
PROXIMO In two days we leave for Rome. 
Maximus' eyes suddenly flash to Proximo.  He is transfixed, his eyes burning. 
PROXIMO Ah... so it's Rome you want.  Well you shall have her, Gladiator.  The new Emperor has ordered a series of matches to culminate in a grand spectacle.  If you do well I shall become very, very rich.  If you do well enough I shall set you free. Is it freedom you want? 
A beat. 
Maximus shakes his head. 
PROXIMO (quietly) Not even that. 
MAXIMUS (barely controlled) The Emperor -- will he be there? 
PROXIMO Oh yes.  He's apparently quite mad about the games.  Spending a fortune, which is, needless to say, good for me again.  But what is good for you, Gladiator? 
MAXIMUS Have you -- how does one meet the Emperor? 
PROXIMO As a gladiator? 
MAXIMUS Yes. 
PROXIMO One doesn't. 
A beat.  Proximo sees that Maximus' mind is racing. 
PROXIMO Except... If one has proven oneself in battle.  If at the end of the games you are the final man standing -- the Emperor will present you with a small wooden sword.  The sword is your freedom. 
MAXIMUS He give it personally? 
PROXIMO He did to me... (Maximus is surprised at this) Our great father Marcus Aurelius looked into my eyes and touched me on the shoulder. 
MAXIMUS You knew Marcus? 
PROXIMO I didn't know him.  He touched me on the shoulder.  Just once.  But that was enough. 
A beat. 
PROXIMO All right, Gladiator.  We shall go to Rome together and have bloody adventures.  The Great Whore will suckle us until we are fat and happy and can't suck another drop.  That is Rome. 
INT./ EXT.  SLAVE WAGON - OUTSIDE ROME - EVENING 
Maximus is crouched in the back of an enclosed slave wagon with Vibius, Juba and a few other gladiators. 
In the distance, Rome. 
INT.  PALACE - COMMODUS' BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Commodus sits on his bed, rubbing his aching head. Lucilla is preparing a drink for him, a medicinal tonic. 
COMMODUS All my desires are splitting my head to pieces -- there's so much I want to do -- but all my efforts to show my children they are loved go unappreciated by those dragons in the Senate -- 
LUCILLA (mixing tonic) Quiet, brother... 
Unseen by him, she adds a little special powder to the drink from a vial secreted in her robe. 
LUCILLA Leave the Senate to me.  Don't trouble yourself. 
COMMODUS All I want is to be a good father to my people.  Why don't they understand that? 
She goes to him. 
LUCILLA Shhh.  The tonic will help... 
She takes a sip and then hands it to him. 
LUCILLA Yes, just drink this down. 
She sits on the edge of the bed.  He drinks as: 
Maximus and the others are lead by Proximo's guards down a long ramp and past countless animal cages.  Gamblers circulate everywhere and observe the warriors, angling for the best odds and the best matches. 
Maximus and the others are led even deeper into the bowels of the Colosseum to a new whole subterranean realm. Numerous cells line the walls.  Racks and racks of weaponry and armor. 
And, most striking, everywhere around them is the heavy machinery of the spectacles above.  Huge "elevator" platforms and ramps and pulleys and counterweights are manned by teams of sweating slaves. 
INT.  COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAY 
Finally, Proximo's guards lead the gladiators to their holding cells.  These cells are right at the edge of the arena.  Barred windows offer a sand-level view of the action. 
Maximus immediately goes to a window and looks out. 
He cannot see much of the entire arena, but what he does see transfixes him. 
A band of Christians are huddled together.  An eerie silence from the Colosseum but for the prayers of the Christians. 
Maximus watches them.  One little girl peels past her mother's arm.  She sees Maximus.  She smiles. 
Suddenly a dozen ferocious lions race up a ramp by Maximus -- they roar into the arena -- 
We do not see the carnage.  We watch Maximus' face as we hear the sounds of the slaughter. 
And the sound of the roaring crowd. 
Maximus finally cannot watch.  He drops his head. 
INT.  COLOSSEUM - TRAINER'S LAIR - DAY 
Proximo is with a dozen other gladiator trainers and the Colosseum's orator and majordomo, CASSIUS.  They are haggling in an secluded area not far from the arena itself.  Huge chalkboards chart the day's matches and wagers and odds. 
Colosseum touts continually erase and mark new figures on the chalkboards to keep up with the swiftly changing bouts. 
The roar of the lions and the unnerving screams of the Christians can clearly be heard. 
CASSIUS ... and the Emperor will have no more animal battles today -- 
Upset roars from some of the trainers. 
TRAINER #1 You promised me a bear match, Cassius! 
TRAINER #2 I have ten damned gorillas!  You said gorillas yesterday! 
CASSIUS Talk to the man in the imperial box. Who has the next slot...? (he checks the boards) -- Lentulus, Gideon, Trebonius and Proximo -- (to Proximo) -- Nice to have you back, you piratical bastard -- now listen, the Emperor wants the Carthage spectacle. 
The four trainers explode in a flurry of resistance -- 
PROXIMO No -- have pity, Cassius -- ! 
TRAINER #3 My men are too good for -- ! 
CASSIUS You give us the Carthage match or lose your spot on the rotation -- but don't worry -- gold is flowing from the Emperor's fingers. 
TRAINER #3 It'll cost you -- 
PROXIMO I won't do it for less than 100,000 sesterces -- ! 
TRAINER #4 120,000!  All I have is my best Thracians! 
CASSIUS (to Proximo) And I want to see this famous Spaniard of yours -- his reputation soars from the provinces.  The people are eager for him -- 
PROXIMO I won't throw my Spaniard into a spectacle!  Damn you and damn the rotation! 
CASSIUS You will and the price will be 90,000 sesterces each -- (to all) -- which you all know is exorbitant -- AND IF YOU EXTORTING BLOOD-WHORES TRY TO PAWN OFF LESSER FIGHTERS ON ME I WILL SEE YOU DEAD IN THE ARENA TOMORROW! 
TRAINER #4 My Thracians are worth -- ! 
CASSIUS Give me your best, brothers.  They die before Caesar. 
He strides back to the arena.  The touts instantly begin making new marks on the boards to represent the mysterious "Carthage Spectacle" as some of the trainers hurry out. 
Proximo walks with Trainer #4: 
PROXIMO I give you 30,000 my Spaniard will kill at least one of your Thracians. 
TRAINER #4 30,000?!  On a Spaniard?!  That provincial sun has curdled your brain! 
PROXIMO Then make the wager, you smug bastard! 
They disappear down a dark corridor, negotiating all the while. 
INT.  COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAY 
Maximus, Juba, Vibius and another of Proximo's gladiators are being armed.  They all wear mask-like helmets. 
Proximo hurries to them. 
The crowd is stunned by this strange act of mercy.  But then an enormous roar grows from the crowd -- wave after wave of adulation for the hero of the day. 
Maximus looks around, taking it all in. 
Then he turns to the Imperial Box. 
Maximus slowly walks to before the the Imperial Box.  The Praetorian Archers immediately raise their bows, pointing down at him. 
Maximus glares up at Commodus through his helmet mask. Commodus returns his gaze, curious. 
The crowd is intrigued, growing quiet.  What is going on? 
Then Maximus simply turns and begins walking away. 
COMMODUS Slave!  Who are you? 
The Colosseum is suddenly silent.  The Emperor is speaking to a gladiator. 
Maximus keeps walking. 
COMMODUS SLAVE!  WHO ARE YOU? 
Maximus keeps walking, his fists clenched now. 
Commodus suddenly grabs a spear from a nearby Praetorian and hurls it with perfect aim -- the crowd gasps -- the spear sails past Maximus -- actually nicking his shoulder -- it slices into the sand ahead of Maximus. 
Maximus stops. 
COMMODUS SLAVE!  WHO ARE YOU?! 
Maximus can hold it no longer.  He spins to Commodus -- ripping off his helmet mask -- and THUNDERING: 
MAXIMUS I AM MAXIMUS MERIDAS, GENERAL OF THE FELIX REGIMENT OF THE ROMAN ARMY AND SERVANT TO THE EMPEROR MARCUS AURELIUS! 
Commodus eyes shoot wide -- Lucilla bolts up -- Gracchus leans forward -- Proximo is stunned -- the crowd is mystified -- 
MAXIMUS I AM FATHER TO A MURDERED SON AND HUSBAND TO A MURDERED WIFE AND LANDLORD TO A MURDERED WORLD -- AND I WILL HAVE VENGEANCE! 
The Praetorian Archers tense their bows -- ready to kill the defiant slave -- 
But something extraordinary stops them.  Almost as one being the crowd roars -- they leaps to their feet and thrust their thumbs up!  They cheer and stomp their approval of Maximus. 
Commodus looks around at the people of Rome, amazed. 
He finally plasters on a benevolent smile and thrusts his thumb up!  The Praetorians lower their bows. 
And the crowd cheers.  Never in the long, long history of the Colosseum have they ever seen such a thing. 
Maximus leads his gladiators out of the arena. 
INT.  PALACE - THRONE ROOM - NIGHT 
To our great surprise, Commodus is not raging.  He sits quietly on the polished marble floor in front of a model of the Colosseum.  He moves model pieces around in the Colosseum, planning his festival. 
Lucilla stands, tense. 
COMMODUS Why is he still alive? 
LUCILLA I don't know. 
COMMODUS He shouldn't be alive.  That vexes me.  I am terribly vexed... 
Lucilla watches her brother cautiously, expecting the explosion.  He carefully moves some model pieces in the arena. 
COMMODUS There, that's better.  Do you like the platform here? 
LUCILLA Mmm. 
COMMODUS I do too.  Simple, elegant... 
Lucilla is growing more and more unnerved at Commodus' unusual serenity. 
COMMODUS Father would have wanted something more ornate but he's dead now. 
A beat.  Commodus laughs.  A beat. 
COMMODUS Maximus Meridas haunts me.  I see Father turning away from me and gazing at him.  How many times did I suffer that indignity, I wonder? 
LUCILLA What are you going to do? 
COMMODUS I'm going to kill him. 
LUCILLA Good. 
COMMODUS (glances at her) Oh, you're too clever, Sister. Don't tell me part of you won't weep for him. 
She rivets him intensely with her eyes. 
LUCILLA By all the Gods, and in the name of my father who loved you, and in the name of the husband I loved... I swear to stand by your side in this now and always. 
A beat. 
MAXIMUS What is your son's name? 
LUCILLA Lucius Verus.  Like his father. 
MAXIMUS I weep for him. 
A long beat.  Maximus' cold eyes give away nothing. 
Lucilla turns and starts to go.  She stops, not looking back. 
LUCILLA Commodus plans to kill you in your next match in the arena.  He's planning something.  I will pray for you.  As I have always done. 
She then pulls something from her robes and sets it down, a little bundle wrapped in cloth.  She sweeps out.  The sound of the door being bolted shut on the other side. 
Maximus stands for a moment and then goes to what she has left.  He opens the cloth.  Inside are his six "ancestor" figures. 
He picks up one of the figures.  He looks at it deeply, gently feeling along the contours with a finger. 
EXT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY 
The Colosseum is again packed.  Commodus, Lucilla and her son Lucius are in the Imperial Box. 
It is late in the day and teams of slaves are cleaning the arena after a bout.  They haul off carcasses and toss down fresh sand. 
Meanwhile, Cassius is orating to the crowd: 
CASSIUS ... in his majestic charity the Emperor has deigned to this day favor the people of Rome with an historical final match.  Returning to the Colosseum today... after five years in retirement... Caesar is pleased to bring you... THE ONLY UNDEFEATED CHAMPION IN ROMAN HISTORY... (the crowd is going mad) ... THE LEGENDARY... TIGER OF GAUL!! 
The crowd erupts in paroxysms of joy as TIGER explodes into the arena in an ornate chariot.  Tiger is a fierce man in his 40's, his brutal, scarred face and hugely muscled body a testament to his many years in the arena. 
Tiger speeds around the rim of the arena in his chariot, raising an arm in triumph.  The crowd roars. 
INT.  COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAY 
Proximo stands with Maximus, who is busy strapping on armor. 
PROXIMO Gods!  That old Homicide!  The Emperor must truly hate you. 
MAXIMUS What can you tell me? 
PROXIMO He cheats. 
INT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY 
Tiger waits.  He stands in the center of the arena.  He has only a traditional short sword.  The crowd is breathless with anticipation.  As: 
CASSIUS (orating) And from the rocky promontories and martial bloodlines of Spain... representing the training lyceum of Proximo Antoninus... I give you... THE WARRIOR MAXIMUS! 
The crowd cheers.  Maximus appears from his gate.  His fans have increased in number considerably.  They eagerly crane forward and celebrate him. 
Meanwhile, Maximus looks at Tiger.  Only one man with a sword?  Maximus approaches, cautious but confident. 
He stops a few feet from Tiger.  They lock eyes, salute each other and then turn to the Imperial Box, raising their swords. 
The crowd waits eagerly for the immortal words... 
MAXIMUS AND TIGER We who are about to die salute you. 
The crowd cheers and Maximus immediately turns and starts slashing -- Tiger easily blocks and strikes back -- 
The sword play is very fast -- they block and parry and hack like lightning -- constantly attacking -- they are perfectly matched -- 
As he fights Maximus becomes aware of a strange sound over the roar of the crowd -- a low rumbling -- then he feels something -- a vibration in the ground -- 
Suddenly traps doors swing open and four enormous platforms rise into view.  On each platform is a snarling Bengal tiger restrained by a chain.  Tiger's teams of "cornermen" hold the chains through a pulley system.  The cornermen are safely inside cages.  The platforms stop at ground level. 
The four ferocious tigers now mark the four corners of the battleground. 
Tiger takes advantage of Maximus' momentary confusion and assaults brutally -- forcing him back toward one of the tigers -- the tiger claws for Maximus -- Maximus just evades it claws -- rolls for a new position -- another tiger snaps at him -- 
Tiger attacks -- Maximus is on the defensive -- fighting off Tiger and evading the four snarling beasts -- 
And then all four tigers are suddenly closer.  The teams of cornermen are letting the chains play out, bit by bit, gradually reducing the size of the battle ground.  The crowd roars. 
But the fight is hardly fair. 
Whenever Tiger is near one of the tigers the cornermen pull back the tiger slightly -- when Maximus is near a tiger they let it out a bit. 
Maximus and Tiger fight -- swirling action -- finally, Maximus has the edge -- he circles so that the sun stabs into Tiger's eyes -- then Maximus lunges forward under Tiger's swinging sword and SLAMS into him -- they fall -- a tiger swats at Maximus' face -- he jerks his head back -- he shoots out a leg and kicks Tiger's sword toward one of the tigers -- it is out of reach -- Maximus leaps up and stands over the winded Tiger, sword to his throat. 
COMMODUS It is my responsibility to make the world as it should be.  How is it I have made this world? 
LUCILLA Brother, do not be influenced by the mob.  They are a great, faceless beast -- 
COMMODUS They are not "the mob," Lucilla, they are the people.  They are my children and all I want to do is love them. 
A beat.  He stands before a bust of Marcus Aurelius.  He touches it. 
COMMODUS Our father loved Maximus... and I love him still... yet he defies me, he tasks me in front of my children. And they love him for it.  Just as Marcus loved him for it.  Tell me why, Lucilla. 
LUCILLA They see themselves in him.  They throw in their own sad dreams alongside his.  They think he fights for them. 
COMMODUS And what do I do but fight for them?!  I give them games to please them.  I strangle dissent to give them peace.  I empower the Praetorians to give them order. What more can I do?! 
A beat. 
COMMODUS Say I should fight him, in the arena.  Let my children see who the Gods truly favor. 
LUCILLA And what if he should win? 
A beat. 
Commodus continues to slowly move around the room. 
COMMODUS A God is more powerful than a man... 
This odd statement hangs in the air for a moment.  Then: 
LUCILLA Caesar, you let this unduly worry you.  At best he is a passing fancy -- he is a name, an image on a banner, ephemeral -- he will be forgotten as the next fancy appears -- 
COMMODUS But I need to know -- why do they love him? 
LUCILLA Mercy. 
He stops.  Looks at her. 
LUCILLA He will not kill in the arena.  He is merciful.  As they all wish they were in their own hearts. 
Something in her words has struck a chord in him. 
COMMODUS And for that moment in the arena they are merciful too.  For a moment... they are Gods.  Offering life. 
He looks at her. 
COMMODUS But who can be more merciful than the Emperor of Rome? 
EXT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY 
Maximus is fighting a thick GIANT of a man.  A few quick blows and the Giant falls -- like a mighty tree he crashes to the sand. 
The arena cheers their hero. 
Maximus stands over the beaten Giant.  The crowd waits for the famous act. 
Maximus salutes the Giant and tosses down his sword, refusing to kill.  He walks away. 
The arena explodes in cheers -- a chant of "Maximus the Merciful" grows to deafening proportions. 
Suddenly the arena is filled with Praetorians -- they block Maximus' exit from the arena -- the crowd boos -- horrified -- 
The Praetorians surround Maximus.  He is unarmed, but coils for the inevitable battle. 
Then the Praetorians part... 
And Commodus walks through them.  He carries something wrapped in a rich cloth.  Maximus glares at him. 
The Praetorians move back and the crowd watches eagerly. The Emperor and the Gladiator, at last. 
Maximus and Commodus stare at each other.  The crowd cannot hear what is said, but strain to observe this incredible confrontation. 
COMMODUS Brother... we've taken a sad path since we were children at Capri, have we not? 
Maximus doesn't answer. 
COMMODUS For my own part... I am sorry it came to this.  And to you alone of all men, I acknowledge my errors. And my regret.  I shall live with my sin for all my days. 
MAXIMUS As will I, Commodus.  As will I. 
Commodus unwraps the cloth bundle.  Inside is a small wooden sword.  He holds it up so the crowd can see. 
A collective gasp.  The wooden sword, prized by all gladiators above all else.  Freedom. 
COMMODUS As the first act of my contrition I offer you the wooden sword of freedom. 
He holds out the wooden sword.  A beat. 
And then he slowly walks right to her.  His face an inch away from hers. 
COMMODUS Where is my sister? 
INT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - PROXIMO'S CHAMBER - NIGHT 
Proximo sits, considering Maximus. 
MAXIMUS Was it Centurion...?  General...? 
PROXIMO Captain. 
A beat. 
PROXIMO How did you know? 
MAXIMUS A soldier knows a soldier. 
A beat. 
PROXIMO All that was a long time ago.  Too much wine and too many women.  And too much money. 
MAXIMUS No -- 
PROXIMO This is who I am... (he pats his ample belly) You see?  There was a time I would stand against ten men and never give an inch, spitting into the jaws of Hades all the while.  There was a time my heart swelled to strap on the armor of Rome.  But now... 
Something flashes across Proximo's eyes, something like tragedy. 
PROXIMO Now I am just an entertainer. 
A pause. 
MAXIMUS You said something to me once.  You said in this life, we all die.  All we can choose is how we die.  And how we are remembered.  Do you recall those words? 
PROXIMO Yes. 
MAXIMUS Then be remembered proudly.  This is your time, Proximo.  Stand at my side and be what you were.  What you truly are.  One last time. 
A beat. 
Proximo suddenly begins to weep rather histrionically -- Maximus is a bit taken aback -- Proximo dramatically flicks tears from his eyes -- and then can't keep the show up -- he bursts into laughter. 
Maximus stares at him. 
PROXIMO (laughing) You might have spared yourself the speech, General.  The lady Lucilla bought all my gladiators two hours ago! 
MAXIMUS You pox-ridden bastard -- ! 
PROXIMO I am the richest trainer in the Empire!  And I will let my gladiators do anything you like! Conspire away, General! 
Maximus can only laugh as well. 
PROXIMO But I tell you -- if you survive this madness I want you to go into business with me.  I'll give you a quarter of my holdings. 
MAXIMUS (standing) A quarter?! 
PROXIMO A third.  And not a hair more.  And you'll have to start in the provinces!  Cleaning up the lion shit! 
MAXIMUS You know, if you were half so awful as you pretend, you'd be a terrifying man. 
Maximus shakes his head, smiling, and goes. 
Proximo sits for a moment. 
Then he rises and goes to a heavy chest.  He looks at the chest for a moment and then opens it. 
Inside is his old Lorica Segmentata.  He gazes at his armor, considering what he once was.  And what he now is. 
INT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - CELL - NIGHT 
Maximus enters.  Lucilla is waiting, extremely tense. 
MAXIMUS Lucilla -- 
LUCILLA Don't even say it.  I know it's dangerous -- but I had to see you. Captain Marcellus has gone to the army with your message as you instructed. 
MAXIMUS Good. 
LUCILLA He says the City Guard will be ready at the south road at noon.  They can only wait for an hour so -- 
MAXIMUS You've told me this already. 
LUCILLA Did I?  All right then.  So everything is prepared.  The Senate will be in attendance and you have your gladiators -- the usual cohort of Praetorians will be inside the arena -- 
MAXIMUS Lucilla... why are you here? 
Proximo is asleep -- a sound outside wakes him -- the steady clip-clop of horses on stone.  A lot of horses. 
He rises and goes to a window overlooking the street outside. 
A stern Praetorian Guard cavalry unit is cantering into position at his gates.  Proximo grabs his clothes -- 
EXT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHT 
With cool military precision the Praetorians take up position at the gates before Proximo's compound, an unassailable line.  They quickly prepare their bows. 
Meanwhile, another Praetorian unit has taken up position at the other end of Proximo's compound -- sealing that entrance as well. 
EXT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - COURTYARD - NIGHT 
Proximo is hurrying across his open courtyard when the first flaming arrow arches into the compound -- it is followed by hundreds more -- 
The Praetorians on either end of his compound keep up a ceaseless hail of flaming arrows -- everything begins to burn -- the caged gladiators are stirring now -- shouting -- 
Proximo races to his panicked guards -- 
PROXIMO Release them!  Release them all! ARM THEM! 
The guards sprint to the cells -- unlocking the gladiators as quickly as they can -- 
Not quick enough for many -- Praetorians are now pouring pitch through the gutter that runs along the bottom of the cells -- igniting it and incinerating all those trapped inside -- 
The compound is soon a raging inferno -- 
Proximo releases Maximus and Juba -- 
PROXIMO Come -- 
MAXIMUS But -- 
PROXIMO If you want to live -- follow me -- 
VIBIUS (calling to them) Go, Spaniard!  We'll show these Roman dogs how gladiators fight! 
Proximo hauls Maximus and Juba off as Vibius and the other gladiators arm themselves -- 
INT.  TUNNELS - NIGHT 
Proximo is leading Maximus and Juba quickly through a decaying cramped tunnel. 
PROXIMO All the old gladiator schools have tunnels to the Colosseum -- most have long since collapsed -- 
JUBA How did they know? 
MAXIMUS We were betrayed. 
JUBA (stops) I'll stay here.  In case they follow. 
Maximus stops as well. 
JUBA Go!  Bring us the army! 
Maximus nods. 
PROXIMO Quickly -- 
He leads Maximus down the disintegrating catacomb of tunnels -- 
EXT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHT 
Vibius hoped to die fighting -- he never got the chance. 
It is not a battle, it is a slaughter. 
The Praetorians ruthlessly shoot anyone even approaching the gates -- all the walls are covered -- most of the gladiators die in the hellish inferno -- the relentless rain of flaming arrows continues -- 
Vibius coughs in the thick smoke and rages for someone to fight -- Praetorian snipers cut him down -- he dies reaching for the statue of Mars. 
INT.  COLOSSEUM - SUBTERRANEAN - NIGHT 
Proximo and Maximus emerge deep in the bowels of the Colosseum. 
PROXIMO (points) Down that corridor is the butchery -- the blood sloughs lead to the Tiber.  Gods watch over you. 
MAXIMUS You're not coming? 
PROXIMO They are killing my men! 
He races back into the tunnel. 
Maximus moves quickly down the corridor.  He can finally see... 
Maximus begins marching through the camp, the wolf at his side.  Soldiers stir, amazed to see their General is alive. 
Gallus leaps up, stunned, and goes to Maximus.  They continue to march through the camp, more and more astonished soldiers joining them. 
They march toward the large tents at the center of the encampment. 
Titus emerges from his tent.  Slams to a stop -- 
TITUS By all the Gods... 
He goes to Maximus and embraces him. 
MAXIMUS Old friend... 
TITUS You're returned from Hades!  By all the Gods! 
MAXIMUS Where is he? 
Just then Quintus emerges from the largest tent.  He stares at Maximus, unbelieving. 
A long beat as they look at each other. 
Quintus knows his destiny.  With quiet dignity he begins whispering a prayer.  Maximus moves to him, embracing him: 
MAXIMUS I forgive you. 
He stabs Quintus with a dagger as he embraces him. Quintus falls. 
A beat. 
Titus goes to the dead Quintus and pulls the seal of office from his uniform.  He hands it to Maximus. 
An enormous roar of celebration from the Felix Regiment. 
INT.  PALACE - COMMODUS' BEDROOM - MORNING 
A castrati choir sings a gentle hymn of celebration. Their eerie voices and otherworldly harmonies undulate around Commodus' bedroom. 
The Emperor himself is in a chair, wrapped in a robe.  His body slaves work over him closely. 
He is staring into a mirror, lost in another world as the slaves carefully apply golden eye makeup to him. 
The castrati hymn continues... 
EXT.  OUTSIDE THE COLOSSEUM - DAY 
The hymn is all we hear as we see crowds moving into the Colosseum... 
It seems that all of Rome is here for this great day. Huge throngs of citizens move like a massive wave toward the Colosseum entrances.  Vendors are doing brisk business.  Praetorian units in full dress uniform canter past. 
We elegantly float up along the outer tiers of the Colosseum and then glide over the edge to see the arena stands... 
EXT.  COLOSSEUM - DAY 
The hymn is all we hear as we see... 
The stands are filling.  We see the rich and poor alike. We see the orator Cassius.  We see Senator Falco and most of the Senate.  We see the cohort of fifty Praetorian taking up position around the Imperial Box. 
A golden platform, with stairs down to the arena sand, now extends about twenty feet from the Imperial Box to a spot over the arena. 
We float down the stairs and then we see the arena itself... 
It is stunning in its simplicity. 
The days victims are tied to posts in the center of the arena.  Suspended above them is an enormous cloud.  A thick, tumescent bladder painted to look like a threatening rain cloud. 
We see Proximo and Juba.  We see Senators Gracchus and Gaius.  We see Gaius' wife and Gracchus catamite and Christian families and scholars and actors. 
Seven stylized hills surround them. 
The hymn comes to its soaring conclusion as we see the damned. 
TIME CUT: 
Later.  By now, the Colosseum is packed.  All fifty-five thousand seats are taken.  Another ten thousand stand wherever they can.  A feral anticipation buzzes through the crowd. 
Outside the Colosseum, the streets are crowded with thousands more who couldn't get in. 
Trumpets blare. 
Commodus' six Centurion Body Guards stride into the Imperial Box. 
Then Commodus enters.  He is shrouded in a full lion's skin, the head of the lion concealing his own.  His head is down, he does not look up. 
Lucilla and Lucius enter after him and sit.  Lucilla's face is drained, her eyes defeated.  Lucius is wearing a miniature set of Lorica Segmentata, complete with ceremonial dagger. 
At his cue, two elevator platforms rumble into view, rising from the bowels of the Colosseum to the arena sand. 
On each platform is a cage full of ferocious wolves, they snap and growl, straining to be released. 
COMMODUS So it was for Romulus and Remus, sons of Mars, so shall it be for us! The great She-Wolf will -- 
Suddenly -- the huge wooden doors of the arena burst open and Maximus leads the Felix Regiment cavalry thundering into the arena. 
The crowd is stunned -- Commodus is stunned -- Lucilla bolts up -- 
Commodus immediately spins to Lucilla, his eyes burning -- 
His Praetorian are momentarily confused -- 
At Gallus' command the Felix Regiment archers let fly -- multiple arrows and bolts cut through most of the Praetorians -- some confusing skirmishes as the remaining Praetorians fire back -- 
Maximus leaps from his horse and begins cutting the prisoners free -- 
Meanwhile, Commodus strides back down the platform toward Lucilla in the Imperial Box, murder in his eyes -- 
She suddenly hugs Lucius quickly and kisses him -- 
LUCILLA Remember your mother. 
She pulls the ceremonial dagger from his little uniform and pushes him to his attendant -- his attendant pulls him away as -- 
Lucilla spins to Commodus -- he grabs her into an embrace -- he turns the knife on her -- thrusting deeply as he kisses her -- 
A long kiss as he holds her tightly to him.  Then he gently sits her down on her throne.  Her eyes wide, dying. 
One of Commodus' Body Guards grabs him: 
CENTURION BODY GUARD Caesar -- we must go -- ! 
Commodus' six Centurion Body Guards begin hustling him out of the Imperial Box -- 
COMMODUS GET THE BOY! 
He grabs Lucius from his attendant and drags him off -- 
They try to escape out the back of the Imperial Box -- but Felix Regiment troops are blocking their way -- racing up toward them -- 
CENTURION BODY GUARD THIS WAY, CAESAR! 
Below, through the confusion, Maximus sees Commodus escaping with Lucius down through a side tunnel. 
Maximus cuts Juba and Proximo free.  Juba immediately snatches up a sword.  Maximus quickly offers a sword to Proximo. 
MAXIMUS Captain? 
Proximo takes the sword. 
MAXIMUS (re: Commodus and the others) Where are they going?! 
PROXIMO This way! 
They race across the arena and into a tunnel... 
INT.  COLOSSEUM - BOWELS - DAY 
Proximo leads them through a series of catacombs -- damp tunnels shoot off in every direction -- everywhere around them the heavy machinery of the games rise like mammoth creatures to the arena above -- a baroque network of ropes and pulleys and counterweights and elevator platforms and air shafts and blood sewers -- And they suddenly run directly into Commodus, dragging Lucius, and his six Centurions coming the other direction. 
The final battle begins with no preamble -- 
Maximus launches himself forward -- instantly separating Commodus and Lucius -- he slams at Commodus with his sword -- Commodus slams back -- 
Proximo and Juba race into the six Centurions -- a wild free-for-all as they prove their worth as warriors -- Juba fights with his usual elegant precision -- Proximo fights as a man reborn, alive again -- 
Proximo takes cagey advantage of his knowledge of this subterranean world -- spinning around machinery and leaping over blood sewers and swinging heavy counterweights -- 
Maximus and Commodus hack at each other with all the fiery passion in them -- Commodus is a perfect match for Maximus and equally ruthless -- their swords thrust and parry and slice at amazing speed -- one false move, one mistake, means death -- 
Meanwhile, the battle is turning into a victory for Juba and Proximo -- they are defeating the Centurions -- Commodus sees this -- and sees Lucius crying in a corner -- 
He screams to one of his remaining Centurions: 
COMMODUS KILL THE BOY! 
Maximus whirls to Lucius -- Commodus attacks -- slashing Maximus' shoulders -- Maximus sees Proximo racing to try and save Lucius as he spins back to battle Commodus -- 
A Centurion raises his sword to kill Lucius -- Juba kills his final opponent, turns -- Proximo just manages to push Lucius out of the way -- the Centurion's sword slices into him -- 
Juba flings his sword across the room -- the final Centurion falls -- 
Maximus sees Proximo collapse to a wall -- dying -- Proximo locks eyes with Maximus as he slides down the wall.  The old pirate shrugs.  And is dead. 
