The Godfather: Part two 
THE GODFATHER 
Part Two 
Screenplay by 
Mario Puzo 
and 
Francis Ford Coppola 
SECOND DRAFT 
September 24, 1973 
FADE IN: 
The Paramount Pictures logo is presented over a simple black background, as a single trumpet plays the familiar theme of a waltz.  White lettering fades in: 
Mario Puzo's THE GODFATHER 
There is a pause, as the trumpet concludes, and there is the additional title: - Part Two - 
INT. DON CORLEONE'S OLD OFFICE - CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL CORLEONE - DAY 
standing impassively, like a young Prince, recently crowned King. 
CLOSE VIEW ON Michael's hand.  ROCCO LAMPONE kisses his hand. Then it is taken away.  We can SEE only the empty desk and chair of Michael's father, Vito Corleone.  We HEAR, over this, very faintly a funeral dirge played in the distance, as THE VIEW MOVES SLOWLY CLOSER to the empty desk and chair. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. A SICILIAN LANDSCAPE - FULL VIEW - DAY 
We can barely make out the funeral procession passing over the burnt-brown of a dry river bed.  The figures move slowly, seemingly from out of hundreds of years of the past. 
The MUSICIANS walking unsteadily on the rocky bed, their instruments harsh and blaring. 
They are followed by six young peasant men, carrying the crude wooden coffin on their shoulders.  Then the widow, a strong large woman, dressed in black, and not accepting the arms of those walking with her. 
Behind her, not more than twenty relatives, few children and paisani continue alone behind the coffin. 
Suddenly, we HEAR the shots of the lupara, and the musicians stop their playing.  The entire procession scatters in odd directions along the rocky river bed. 
The young men struggle with the burden of the heavy coffin, throwing it out of balance and nearly crashing to the ground. We hear a woman SCREAMING: 
WOMAN (Sicilian) They've killed young Paolo!  They've killed the boy Paolo! 
EXT. SICILIAN LANDSCAPE - MED. VIEW - DAY 
across the slain body of a fourteen year old boy, lying on the parched ground.  In the distance we see four or five of the mourning women, the wind blowing their black dresses and veils, running up to the body of the boy.  They begin to wail, and cry out in anguished Sicilian, as the widow, the mother of the murdered boy, holds her child in her arms, his fresh blood wetting her strong hands. 
EXT. BARONIAL ESTATE - TIGHT MOVING VIEW - DAY 
A boy, eight or nine, with wide, frightened eyes, being pulled quickly by the hand.  This is VITO ANDOLINI, who is to become The Godfather. 
The VIEW ALTERS revealing that he is being pulled along by his Mother, the Widow, across a field leading to the ornamental gates of a Baronial Estate of some forgotten Noble. 
At various positions near the gates are men with shotguns, or lupara.  The gates are opened; and the Widow and her boy are shown before DON FRANCESCO, a man in his sixties.  He wears his trousers with suspenders, and an open white shirt sloppily tucked in over his enormous belly.  He wears a hat to protect him from the white-hot sun, and proudly displays a gold watch and chain over his vest. 
He sits in a chair, near a group of his men in the garden, listening to the Widow, who stands before him with her only son. 
WIDOW (Sicilian) Don Francesco.  You murdered my husband, because he would not bend. And his oldest son Paolo, because he swore revenge.  But Vitone is only nine, and dumb-witted.  He never speaks. 
DON FRANCESCO (Sicilian) I'm not afraid of his words. 
WIDOW (Sicilian) He is weak. 
DON FRANCESCO (Sicilian) He will grow strong. 
WIDOW (Sicilian) The child cannot harm you. 
DON FRANCESCO (Sicilian) He will be a man, and then he will come for revenge. 
As she pleads, the Widow moves closer to the Don, until she has practically thrown herself to her knees before him. 
WIDOW (Sicilian) I beg you, Don Francesco, spare my only son.  He is all I have.  In the name of the Holy Spirit, I swear he will never be a danger to you... 
Suddenly, she reaches under her skirt, where she has hidden a kitchen knife. 
WIDOW (continuing) But I will kill you myself! (she lunges at the Mafia chieftain) Vitone, go! 
The boy runs as fast as he can out through the gates.  Then there is a lupara blast.  He turns, and sees his Mother flung a distance of five feet from the short range of the terrible blast of the shotgun.  Then he sees the men turn their attention to him.  One fires at him; but the boy is quick, and disappears into a grove of olive trees. 
EXT. STREETS OF CORLEONE - NIGHT 
Two men roam the deserted streets of Corleone, carrying lupare.  Every so often, they stop, and one shouts in a loud, almost singsong voice, like a fish peddler.  Their names are MOSCA and STROLLO. 
MOSCA (Sicilian) Our Friend promises misery to anyone who harbors the boy Vito Andolini. (he turns and shouts in the other direction) Our Friend promises misery to anyone who harbors the boy Vito Andolini. 
INT. A HOUSE - NIGHT 
A family quietly eats their dinner.  The father is the local policeman, as indicated by his uniform jacket and gun, hanging nearby. 
STROLLO (Sicilian, O.S.) Our Friend will be hard with any family who gives help to Vito Andolini. 
One of the children looks up, about to speak.  But the father sternly indicates that nothing must be said.  They go on with their dinner. 
EXT. THE STREETS OF CORLEONE - FULL VIEW - NIGHT 
The men continue walking up and throughout the streets, far in the distance. 
MOSCA (Sicilian O.S.) ...misery to any family who harbors the boy, Vito... 
INT. A BARN - NIGHT 
Four little girls watch with wide eyes as their mother and father bind Vito tightly in swaddled cloth, and then lift him up to the side of a mule; counter-balancing a heavy load of firewood.  The father looks at the boy's almost stoically calm little face. 
FATHER (Sicilian) Vito...We pray for you. 
He pulls the fabric over the boy's face. 
MOSCA (Sicilian O.S.) ...Andolini... 
STROLLO (Sicilian O.S.) Our Friend promises misery to any family... 
EXT. THE CHURCH PLAZA - NIGHT 
The men continue on their night-walk, up to the plaza of the church. 
STROLLO (Sicilian) ...who harbors the boy Vitone Andolini. 
The figure of a single man on a mule passes them. 
MOSCA (Sicilian) Let no one give help to the boy Vito Andolini... 
The man on the mule makes his way out of the village and disappears into the distance. 
We begin to hear, very quietly, the Waltz repeated once again. 
EXT. STEAMSHIP - CLOSE VIEW ON VITO - DAY 
KAY Thank you. 
She smiles as she leaves the photographer, and then lets out a weary sigh to Mama, as she touches the slightly protruding belly. 
KAY Do you think it'll show in the picture? 
MAMA Two months never shows.  Two months look like you had a big lunch. 
VOICE (O.S.) Oh, Mrs. Corleone. 
A slender, aristocratic WOMAN in her late forties is waving to KAY. 
MRS. BARRETT Hello, Mrs. Corleone.  I'm Fran Barrett, our place is just down the lake.  This is my husband, Marshall. 
KAY I'm so happy you could come. 
MR. BARRETT The place is transformed.  We've been watching workmen come and go all summer. 
MRS. BARRETT Where is Mr. Corleone? 
KAY A business meeting ran late...but he promised he wouldn't be long. 
Kay puts her arm around little Anthony's shoulder. 
KAY This is our son Anthony Vito Corleone.  Today he made his First Holy Communion. 
EXT. TAHOE GATE AND KENNELS - DAY 
A confusion of cars; arriving and parking.  The squad of parking attendants are supplemented by a whole team of the local Police, working as high-class parking valets. 
A very beautiful, statuesque woman, though slightly drunk, DEANNA DUNN, slams the door of a powder blue Mercedes and hurries barefoot through the great stone gate. 
DEANNA I will not shut my mouth, and keep your Goddamn hands off of me! 
She is followed by a harried, FREDDIE CORLEONE, dressed with flash in the Hollywood style, and carrying her shoes in his hands. 
FREDO Honey!  Wait a minute; let's go for a drive. 
DEANNA I just had a drive; besides, I want to see my brother-in-law Michael. 
FREDO (trying to get her to put her shoes on) Yeah, but I don't want him to see you. 
Deanna pauses reflectively a moment, allowing Fredo to get her shoes on. 
DEANNA What beats me, is how you guys could be brothers.  You musta been your Mother's rotten egg. 
She kicks off the shoes, giggling, and runs toward a waiter. 
DEANNA (lifting a glass of champagne) Young man, young man...thank you, young man. 
WAITER (impressed) Excuse me, but aren't you... 
DEANNA Yes, you saw me in the movies, Good Humor man, and yes, I had more off than my shoes! 
FREDO Goddamn bitch. 
DEANNA Relax, Freddie honey.  Come dance with me. 
She extends her hand to him. 
FREDO Listen, Michael's got a lot of nice people here.  Friends of Kay's. He'll never forgive me if you ruin his party. 
DEANNA I hate to see you cringe in front of him.  How come you're so scared of your own kid brother? 
FREDO He's the head of the family. 
Disgusted, she turns around, and heads toward the music. 
DEANNA Don't follow me! 
EXT. TAHOE LAWN AND TABLES - MED. SHOT - DAY 
Rushing through the tables, waving an arm jangling with gold jewelry, and carrying several gift-wrapped packages, is a hardened and aging CONNIE CORLEONE.  She is followed by a blond, and wrinkled-handsome escort named MERLE. 
CONNIE Mama...Mama!  Here I am! 
She throws her arms around her Mother, who returns the affection somewhat reproachfully. 
MAMA Constanzia.  We expected you last week; we sent the car to pick you up at the airport last week. 
CONNIE I know, it was chaos; but anyway, here I am one week late. (lifting a shiny green package out of Merle's arms) This is for my Mama.  You remember Merle? 
MAMA (not giving him a chance to greet her) Yes, thank you. 
CONNIE How are the kids? 
MAMA Well, thank you, they asked for you all week. 
CONNIE I got surprises for everybody! 
MAMA (glancing at the wrapping) Bought at the airport. 
CONNIE (gazing about) This is swell.  Where's Michael? I've got things to get straight with him and I can't wait on line. 
MAMA You go see your children first, and then you wait to see your brother like everybody else. 
EXT. THE BOATHOUSE - DAY 
A porch-like foyer of the boathouse, where a group of five or six men wait, some nervously.  Some sit, and some pace. 
MED. CLOSE VIEW 
on one of these men, FRANKIE PENTANGELI, approaching his sixties, with gray hair (the little of it left).  He's a bit scruffy, this morning's shave of his white beard is not perfect, and he seems tired.  He is accompanied by an associate-bodyguard, WILLY CICCI; thin and dark, and also dressed up for the occasion.  Frankie tries to get the attention of one of the waiters; a college-groomed young man in white sports jacket and black bow-tie. 
PENTANGELI Hey, kid!  You got any red wine? 
WAITER (offering the tray) Only champagne and cocktails. 
PENTANGELI Forget it... 
Finally, he sees someone he recognizes, Fredo, and shouts out in a husky voice: 
PENTANGELI Fredo!  Sonuvabitch.  You look great. 
Fredo squints in his direction; finally recognizes him. 
FREDO Who's that?  Pentangeli?  Frankie "Five-Angels"...thought you were never coming West. 
PENTANGELI (affectionately) Gotta check up on my boys.  Hey, what's with the food?  Some kid in a white jacket brings me a ritz cracker with some chopped liver. 'Canapes,' he says.  I say, 'Can a peas, my ass, that's a ritz cracker with chopped liver.' Go get me a salami sandwich and a glass of wine or I'll send you and your white jacket to the dry cleaners! 
They get a good laugh at this fresh breath of New York. 
FREDO Gee, Frankie, it's good to see you. Reminds me of old times. 
PENTANGELI You remember Willy Cicci, don't you, Freddie?  We was all together with the old man Clemenza in Brooklyn... before...uh... 
FREDO We were all upset about that. 
PENTANGELI That's what I'm here to talk to your brother about.  What's with him, I got to get a letter of introduction to have a 'sitdown'? 
FREDO (throwing his arm around him) C'mon, I see what I can do. 
EXT. TAHOE PAVILION - MED. VIEW - DAY 
CONNIE How are you, honey?  You've met Merle, haven't you.  He was with me in Vegas. 
MICHAEL I saw him with you. 
CONNIE We're going to Europe next week.  I want to get passage booked on the Queen. 
MICHAEL Why do you come to me?  Why don't you go to a travel agent? 
MERLE We're going to get married first. 
Michael is silent.  Then he rises, and moves to the window overlooking the lake. 
MICHAEL The ink on your divorce isn't dry. Your children see you on weekends; your oldest boy, Michael Francis... was in some trouble with the Reno police over some petty theft that you don't even know about. 
CONNIE Michael... 
MICHAEL You fly around the world with lazy young men who don't have any love for you, and use you like a whore. 
CONNIE You're not my father! 
MICHAEL Then why do you come to me? 
CONNIE Because I need MONEY! 
MICHAEL (softly) Connie, I want to be reasonable with you.  You have a house here, with us.  You can live here with your kids...and you won't be deprived of anything.  I don't know much about Merle; I don't know what he does for a living; what he lives on.  Why don't you tell him marriage is really out of the question; and that you can't see him any more. He'll understand.  But if you disobey me, and marry this pimp...it would disappoint me. 
CONNIE It was my father's money; and I'm entitled to what I need.  Where is Tom Hagen? 
She turns angrily, leaving Michael standing face to face with Merle. 
MICHAEL Are you finished? 
MERLE I think so. 
MICHAEL Then out. 
Merle puts out his cigarette and leaves, quickly. 
EXT. TAHOE PAVILION - FULL VIEW - DAY 
The orchestra has struck up a "Paul Jones," where two concentric circles of young people march in opposite directions, until the music stops.  Then they take whomever is opposite them as their new dance partner. 
VIEW ON THE HARBOR AREA 
Francesca and her twin, Gardner and their elite young friends roar out of the private harbor, to get up on the water skis.  We notice ROCCO LAMPONE, move along a path leading to a separate and more private boathouse.  A small covered craft approaches, ties off, and a group of three men step on to the pathway, shake hands with Lampone - and follow him to the large boathouse where Michael conducts his business. 
CLOSE VIEW 
Pentangeli has led Mama up to the dance floor, and is having some difficulty with the orchestra. 
PENTANGELI I can't believe that out of thirty professional musicians, not one of you is Italian! (as the musicians laugh) C'mon, give us a tarantella. 
He waves his hands, conducting, and singing.  The piano starts a vamp, the drums uncertainly join in.  A clarinet starts to play "Pop Goes the Weasel," and soon the rest of the orchestra is playing that.  They look to Pentangeli for approval.  Disgusted, he goes back to his table, eating a handful of canapes. 
INT. THE BOATHOUSE - DAY 
Rocco ushers an older Italian, bundled up against the cold and wet of his boatride, to Michael. 
The man shows respect to Michael, who quickly indicates that Neri should get him a drink. 
MICHAEL Rocco, his friends must be hungry. See what you can do, but I'd like to keep them away from the guests. 
The older man, JOHNNY 'BLUE BOY' OLA, gestures to his bodyguards, and they follow Lampone. 
MICHAEL You know my lawyer, Tom Hagen. Johnny Ola. 
OLA Sure, I remember Tom from the old days. 
Tom shakes hands with Ola, remembering him, and his importance. 
MICHAEL Tom isn't going to sit in with us, Johnny.  He only handles specific areas of the family business.  Tom? 
HAGEN Sure, Mikey. 
He gathers up some of his papers, as the three men remain silent, waiting for him to go before they talk.  It's clear Tom doesn't want to be excluded. 
HAGEN If you need anything, just... 
MICHAEL Just tell Rocco I'm waiting. 
Hagen nods and leaves.  As soon as the door closes: 
OLA I just left our friend in Miami. 
MICHAEL How is his health? 
OLA Not good. 
MICHAEL Is there anything I can do; anything I can send? 
OLA He appreciates your concern, Michael, and your respect. 
There's a KNOCK on the door; a moment, and then Rocco quietly enters and takes his place without disturbing the conversation. 
OLA The hotel's registered owners are one Jacob Lawrence, and Sidney Barclay, both Beverly Hills attorneys.  In reality it's split between the Old Lakeville Road Group from Cleveland, and our friend in Miami.  He takes care of others outside the country, you know who I mean.  Meyer Klingman runs the store, and does all right, but I've been instructed to tell you, that if you move him out, our friend in Miami will go along with you. 
MICHAEL He's very kind, tell him it's appreciated.  I'm sure it will be profitable all the way around. 
OLA He always makes money for his partners.  One by one, our old friends are gone.  Death, natural or not, prison, deported.  Our friend in Miami is the only one left, because he always made money for his partners. 
The door opens suddenly, and standing there in his white Communion suit, is Michael's boy Anthony.  A moment later, Kay appears, and takes the boy's hand. 
KAY Anthony, Daddy's busy. 
MICHAEL (rising) This is my boy, and my wife.  Mr. John Ola of Miami. 
KAY I'm sorry, Michael.  Senator Geary's here, and Mr. and Mrs. Barrett wanted to thank you before they left.  Won't you join us, Mr. Ola? 
MICHAEL Mr. Ola's just leaving, Kay. Please tell the Senator I won't be a minute. 
Pause; she stands there a moment. 
MICHAEL (continuing) Kay. 
KAY Yes, Michael. 
EXT. THE BOATHOUSE - DAY 
Kay closes the door.  It seems as though Michael has violated some sort of promise to her by having this man here today. She looks up toward the first boathouse. 
WHAT SHE SEES: 
The covered launch, and Ola's three bodyguards, eating while they wait. 
MED. VIEW 
Anthony runs away from her, heading toward the house. 
KAY Anthony! (she runs after him) Anthony, where are you going? 
Moodily, the boy stops, turns, and walks back to his table of honor without answering her. 
EXT. TAHOE TABLES AND PAVILION - VIEW ON THE PAVILION - DAY 
VIEW ON GEARY 
rising. 
SENATOR GEARY I'll expect your answer, with payment, by tomorrow morning.  Only don't contact me...from now on, deal only through Turnbull. 
He is almost out the door. 
MICHAEL Senator... (cold and calm) ...you can have my answer now if you'd like. 
Geary turns back. 
MICHAEL My offer is this.  Nothing...not even the thousand dollars for the Gaming Commission, which I'd appreciate if you would put up personally. 
Geary returns Michael's hard look; then laughs and leaves. Slowly Michael turns to Hagen. 
VIEW ON HAGEN 
embarrassed at being so off the mark. 
MICHAEL It's all right, Tom, we'll talk later.  Tell Frankie Pentangeli I'd like him to have dinner at my family table before we do business. 
EXT. THE PAVILION - NIGHT 
Now the light has faltered, and the young waiters have put up the night lights.  The tables are all properly set for dinner, with candles on each one. 
The orchestra is playing quiet, unobtrusive dinner music, and many of the guests have begun to help themselves to the impressive buffet, under a party tent. 
MED. VIEW 
Michael sits at a large table with Kay, his son Anthony, Mama, Hagen and TERESA, Connie and Merle' Fredo and Deanna, and Frankie Pentangeli. 
MAMA Cent' Anne. 
This, the table of honor, all raise their glasses and repeat the toast. 
DEANNA What's 'cent' Anne?' 
FREDO A hundred years...it's a toast. 
CONNIE It means we should all live happily for one hundred years.  The family. If my Father were alive, it'd be true. 
MAMA Connie. 
CONNIE Merle, have you met my sister-in- law Deanna? 
DEANNA What a pleasure, Merle. (shaking hands) 
MAMA (Sicilian) Those two are perfect for each other. 
MERLE What's that mean? 
CONNIE Mama! 
PENTANGELI (Sicilian) Michael, in all respect, I didn't come three thousand miles for dinner. 
MICHAEL (Sicilian) I know. 
PENTANGELI (Sicilian) When do we talk? 
MICHAEL (Sicilian) After dinner. 
By now, the conversation has become exclusively Sicilian, with Merle and Deanna, looking from side to side like in a tennis match.  Finally, Kay, to be polite: 
KAY Anthony, you were talking to Mr. Pentangeli? 
ANTHONY His name is "Five-Angels." 
PENTANGELI Yeah, the kid and me talked Sicilian. A one-way conversation! 
INT. TAHOE BOATHOUSE - NIGHT 
Pentangeli is angry; but because it is Michael he is talking to, he keeps his voice low and represses his desire to shout. 
PENTANGELI Sure, Pete Clemenza died of a heart attack, but the Rosato Brothers gave it to him. 
MICHAEL We were all heartbroken at the news; but that wasn't cause to start a war. 
PENTANGELI Okay, now it's my family in Brooklyn; and I wanna keep up Clemenza's loyalty to you.  But how can I run my family with you challenging my every move?  You're too far from the street, Mike, the only way to reason with the Rosato Brothers is to whack 'em and whack 'em fast. 
MICHAEL You were unfair with them. 
PENTANGELI Says who? 
MICHAEL Clemenza promised Rosato three territories in the Bronx after he died, and then you took over and welched. 
PENTANGELI Clemenza promised them nothing, he hated the sonsuvbitches. 
MICHAEL They feel cheated. 
PENTANGELI Michael, you're sitting up here in the Sierra Mountains with champagne cocktails making judgment on the way I run my family. 
MICHAEL (suddenly in Sicilian) Your family still carries the name Corleone, and you will run it like a Corleone! 
PENTANGELI (Sicilian) And while I feed my family in New York, you put the knife in my back in Miami. 
MICHAEL (firm) Frankie, you're a good old man, and you've been loyal to my Father for years...so I hope you can explain what you mean. 
PENTANGELI The Rosatos are running crazy; taking hostages, spitting in my face, because they're backed by the Jew in Miami. 
MICHAEL I know.  That's why I want you to be fair with them. 
PENTANGELI How can you be fair with animals? They recruit niggers and spicks; they do violence in their own Grandmother's neighborhoods.  And everything is dope and whores; the gambling is left to last.  Let me run my family without you on my back.  I want them taken care of. 
MICHAEL No.  There are things that I have planned with Hyman Roth.  I don't want them disturbed. 
PENTANGELI You give your loyalty to a Jew over your own blood. 
MICHAEL Frankie, you know my father respected Roth, did business with him. 
PENTANGELI He did business...but he never trusted him. 
Pentangeli takes his hat, and leaves. 
NERI Should he go? 
MICHAEL The old man had too much vino rosso, or he'd never talk openly that way.  Let him go back to New York; I've already made my plans. (he checks his watch) It's late; I've spent so little time at the party. 
EXT. THE LAWNS AND TABLES - FULL VIEW - NIGHT 
By now the sun has fallen and the lawns of the Corleone estate are lit by moonlight.  Beautifully dressed couples dance as the orchestra plays a foxtrot of the late fifties. 
VIEW ON THE DANCE FLOOR 
Deanna has been dancing with Fredo; she has gotten drunk and it teasing her husband by flirting with other men on the floor. 
DEANNA I wanta dance...whatsa matter with that? 
FREDO Dancing is alright; you're falling on the floor. 
DEANNA Whatsamatter, you don't want me to dance with him 'cause he's a man! 
FREDO Deanna, I'm going to belt you right in the mouth! 
NERI (to the staring performers) Keep it going. 
EXT. A STREET IN BUFFALO, NEW YORK - NIGHT 
The neon lights that spell out "FRED'S PIZZERIA" go out; after a moment a man in an overcoat steps out, and turns to lock the door of his restaurant.  The Corleone Waltz continues over this.  He turns. 
MED. CLOSE VIEW 
FRED VINCENT, whom we remember as the Sicilian Fabrizzio. He moves toward his parked car.  Gets in. 
MED. LONG VIEW 
The starter turns, and the automobile blows in a great explosion. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. THE TAHOE ESTATE - NIGHT 
The waltz continues over the VIEW of the empty, but still illuminated pavilion.  There is the debris of the great party spread over the grounds, which a silent crew of workmen are at work cleaning up, 
MED. VIEW 
Michael walks alone, followed by two of the family dogs, Irish Setters. 
He walks to the water line, and looks out across the lake. He picks up a stick, and throws it for the dogs; who go scampering after it. 
We notice that a respectful distance away, there are bodyguards watching every move he makes. 
CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL 
looking across the lake.  There is much on his mind.  The SOUND of the waltz, begins to segue into the echoed music and laughter of an old Italian Music Hall from the past. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. NEW YORK THEATRE - 1915 - NIGHT 
VITO CORLEONE is a shy young man of 23, holding his hat in his hand, being led down the crowded aisle of this Italian Vaudeville theatre by an energetic and fulfilled GENCO ABBANDANDO, his friend in America.  This entire sequence is played in Sicilian. 
GENCO Come on, you've got to see her! 
VIEW ON THE STAGE 
A tattered melodrama is in progress in Neapolitan.  The sets are two-dimensional, and flap whenever there's an entrance or exit. 
The hero, PEPPINO, is weeping as he sings about how he's left his Mother in Italy, while he is in this new country, America. 
VIEW ON THE AUDIENCE 
All poor, Italo-Americans.  Genco finds a few seats, and leads Vito to them, stepping on a few shoes in the process. They have barely come to their seats, when an excited Genco nudges Vito, and points to the stage.  People shout that they should sit down. 
VIEW ON THE STAGE 
There is a knock on the door, and a young girl enters, delivering a letter to Peppino in his tenement in America. The girl is pretty; and obviously the object of Genco's affection.  The letter brings bad news.  Peppino's Mother is dead.  He weeps, and sings the final song, which most of the audience knows: SENZA MAMMA. 
VIEW ON THE AUDIENCE 
Genco is enthralled with the young actress.  The people in the audience are singing along with Peppino. 
VIEW ON THE STAGE 
The actress, object of Genco's affection, makes a dramatic exit. 
VIEW ON THE AUDIENCE 
Genco pulls on Vito's jacket, indicating that now that his love is offstage, they should leave.  Vito rises with him, and they make their way all the way down the aisle. 
INT. BACKSTAGE THEATRE - MOVING VIEW - NIGHT 
Genco hurrying down the backstage corridor, hoping to catch a glimpse of the actress.  He is followed by Vito.  Suddenly, Genco stops short. 
GENCO'S VIEW 
A heavy-set, fierce looking Italian wearing an expensive light-colored suit and a cream colored fedora.  This is FANUCCI.  He is discussing a business matter with the theatre IMPRESARIO; a large, strong looking man, who is sweating nonetheless.  He doesn't seem to be giving in to Fanucci.  He holds a locked strongbox. 
VIEW ON VITO 
watching.  The two men argue in Italian. 
MED. VIEW 
The young ACTRESS crosses into the area, unaware of the difficulties.  The impresario sees her, and frightened, motions that she should keep away. 
IMPRESARIO Carla! 
But Fanucci grabs her easily by her slender wrist, and with lightning speed, produces a knife which he holds against her cheek.  The impresario wrings his hands in agony. 
IMPRESARIO (Sicilian) No...please, not my daughter. 
Whereupon he begins to unlock the box which holds the receipts for the night's box-office. 
VIEW ON GENCO AND VITO 
hiding, watching.  At first, Genco is enraged, as though he would rush up to help his enamorata. 
GENCO (Sicilian) The Black Hand. 
Then he backs away.  Vito looks at him shocked and disappointed in this cowardly behavior.  Genco shakes his head, and points, as though to say that where Fanucci is concerned, there is nothing to be done. 
GENCO (Sicilian) (whispered) Let's get out of here. 
VIEW ON FANUCCI 
has released the girl.  Her father pulls her away from him, and slaps her for no reason; then he pays Fanucci. 
FANUCCI (Sicilian) Because you protested, it will cost a hundred more. 
EXT. NEW YORK ALLEY - NIGHT 
Genco and Vito; Genco leans against the wall, breathlessly, as though he's had a near escape. 
GENCO (Sicilian) I know what you are thinking, Vitone, but you don't understand yet how things are.  Fanucci is of the Black Hand.  Everyone in the neighborhood pays him, even my father. 
VITO (Sicilian) He's an Italian? 
GENCO (Sicilian) A pig of a Neaponitan. (spits) 
VITO (Sicilian) Why?  Why does he bother other Italians? 
GENCO (Sicilian) Because he knows them; he knows they have no one to protect them. Vitone?  What do you think of my angel? 
VITO (Sicilian) Beautiful. 
GENCO (Sicilian) Beautiful. 
VITO For you, she is beautiful.  For me, there is only my wife! 
GENCO I know.  That's why I brought you with me! 
Genco embraces his good friend, and they laughingly walk down the alley. 
The stage door opens, and Fanucci exits, a sinister figure in white, moving down the alley just in front of them, into the night. 
The two friends hold their breath, until he disappears. 
Vito and his wife sit quietly at the table; the two are quiet and sad. 
Suddenly, we HEAR a noise, and Vito is astonished to see a young man, PETER CLEMENZA, leaning out of the window on the other side of the air shaft which separates their apartments. 
CLEMENZA Hey Paisan!  Hold this for me until I ask for it.  Hurry up! 
Automatically Vito reaches over to the empty space at the air shaft, and takes the bundle of rags.  Clemenza's round face is strained and urgent, obviously in some kind of trouble.  Suddenly, he closes the window and there is activity that we cannot see in the other apartment. 
Vito looks to his wife, and then closes the window and window dressing and takes the bundle into a private part of his kitchen and begins to unwrap it. 
WHAT HE SEES: 
Five oily guns.  He immediately wraps them again, and carries them to a private closet, and hides it, and returns to his wife.  He sits down back at the table; and she knows not to ask him what has happened. 
EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - DAY 
Vito is walking through the crowded streets with a group of workmen; they all wear work clothes, and paper hats on their heads. 
Vito looks to his left, and realizes that Clemenza is walking silently with him; by contrast, Clemenza dresses well. 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) (casually) Do you have my goods still? 
Vito nods. 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) Did you look inside? 
Vito, his face impassive, shakes his head 'no.' 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) I'm not interested in things that don't concern me. 
INT. DOWNTOWN ITALIAN SOCIAL CLUB - DAY 
Vito and Clemenza drinking wine; they've become friends. 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) I have a friend who has a fine rug. Maybe your wife would like it. 
VITO (Sicilian) We have no money for a rug. 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) No.  He would give it away.  I know how to repay a consideration. 
Vito thinks, then nods. 
VITO (Sicilian) She would like it. 
INT. HALLWAY WEALTHY APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 
The two men proceed up the hallway; Vito is impressed with the opulence. 
VITO (Sicilian) Your friend lives in a fine building. 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) Oh yes, the very best. 
Clemenza knocks on the door as though he is well known here; then rings.  No answer. 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) Ah, he's not at home.  Oh, well, he wouldn't mind. 
Quickly and expertly he takes out a tool and pries open the door. 
INT. WEALTHY APARTMENT - FULL VIEW - DAY 
Vito looks in awe at the luxurious apartment, which features a fabulous rich red wool rug. 
Clemenza immediately moves some of the furniture away, and drops to the floor. 
CLEMENZA A little help. 
Vito joins him, and the two begin rolling the rug.  We HEAR a BUZZER RING.  Clemenza immediately drops his side of the roll, and moves to the window.  He pulls a gun from his jacket. 
VIEW ON Vito watching.  He moves so he can see out the window. 
THEIR VIEW 
A Policeman stands at the exterior door, waiting.  He rings the buzzer again. 
VIEW ON CLEMENZA 
cocking his gun.  Vito realizes that if the Policeman should pursue it any further he is a dead man.  The Policeman gives up and leaves. 
Clemenza puts away his gun. 
INT. VITO'S TENEMENT HALLWAY - DAY 
The two men run up the steps, laughing, carrying the fine rug. 
INT. VITO'S TENEMENT - DAY 
They are on their knees cutting the rug to fit the small room.  Carmella watches, holding the baby SANTINO. 
MED. CLOSE ON CLEMENZA 
Like a professional, cutting quickly, with the proper tools. He sings as he works. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. DOWNTOWN WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
Clemenza knocks on the steel door of this downtown building. Vito waits with him, holding some packages; and another youth, TESSIO, tall and thin and deadly waits with them. 
The door is lifted, and they are greeted by a bright, middle-aged Italian named AUGUSTINO who leads them into a machine shop. 
INT. MACHINE SHOP - NIGHT 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) Good, you waited for us. 
Clemenza looks up on a higher level. 
HIS VIEW 
There is a nine year old boy, operating a drill press. 
MED. VIEW 
TESSIO (Sicilian) Who is he? 
AUGUSTINO (Sicilian) My son, Carmine...it's all right. 
The men then quickly open the packages they've brought; revealing gun, including a more sophisticated machine weapon. 
Augustino takes them and expertly begins to clean and prepare them. 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) (to Vito) Paisan Augustino was a gunsmith in the Italian army.  We do each other favors. 
AUGUSTINO (Sicilian) (while he works) My boy is studying the flute.  He plays very well.  He helps me at night so we can buy him a silver flute someday.  Now he has one made of wood.  Carmine...play...play for my friends. 
VIEW ON THE BOY 
wide-eyed... he shuts off the press; and takes out a shabby wooden flute.  And begins to play a simple and pure melody. 
CLOSE ON VITO 
listening. 
CLOSE ON AUGUSTINO 
TESSIO (Sicilian) (laughs at himself) He's going to kill Fanucci. 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) (stern) Then, after that, what?  Joe 'Little Knife' Pisani; Willie Bufalino, maybe, Mr. Maranzalla himself, c'mon! 
VITO (Sicilian) Fanucci is not connected; he is alone. 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) (sarcastically) What?  You read it in the papers? 
VITO (Sicilian) This man informs to the police; this man allows his vengeance to be bought off... No, he is alone. 
TESSIO (Sicilian) If you're wrong... 
VITO (Sicilian) If I'm wrong, they will kill me. 
Both Clemenza and Tessio are impressed with their young friend; his willingness to risk his life on his perception of the situation. 
EXT. NEW YORK STREET - MED. VIEW - NIGHT 
A ten piece Italian street band plays in front of the church to commemorate the first night of the Festa di San Gennaro. People swarm in crowds, delighted by the music, as out of the church four men carry the statue of San Gennaro down to the street. 
MOVING VIEW 
Clemenza moves along the booths that have been set up along the street: sausage cooking on an open fire; pork livers and sweetbeards.  He stops for a sandwich, and makes an irritated gesture when the vendor expects to be paid.  He crosses to a church-sponsored booth with a great Wheel of Fortune, and slaps a dollar on a number.  Standing next to him is Vito; they embrace. 
CLEMENZA (Sicilian) (quietly) All three daughters are at church; he is alone.  It's important that you let his neighbors see you leave. Tessio has broken the latch on the skylight of his building. 
The wheel stops; they both lose. 
CLEMENZA (English) See, Brother Carmello, even the church makes numbers. 
PRIEST (English) It's only the way we collect that's different. 
Vito has left while Clemenza jokes with the Priest. 
EXT. FESTA STREET - NIGHT 
Vito passes the booths of food, crossing toward a small and dark club. 
INT. SOCIAL CLUB - NIGHT 
We can still HEAR the crowds and music of the festa.  Vito enters; the club is empty, except for the large white figure sitting alone at a small table.  Fanucci barely acknowledges Vito as he joins him. 
Without a word, Vito counts out two hundred dollars on the table.  Fanucci looks, then takes off his fedora and puts it on the table over the money. 
FANUCCI (Sicilian) I think there's only two hundred dollars under my hat. (he peeks) I'm right.  Only two hundred dollars. 
VITO (Sicilian) I'm a little short.  I've been out of work.  Let me owe you the money for a few weeks. 
FANUCCI (Sicilian) Ah, you're a sharp young fellow. How is it I've never noticed you before (he takes the two hundred and pours some wine for Vito) You're too quiet for your own interest.  I could find some work for you to do that would be very profitable. (he rises) No hard feelings, eh?  If I can ever do you a service let me know. You've done a good job for yourself tonight. 
EXT. FESTA STREET - MED. VIEW - NIGHT 
By now the musicians have left, but still families are walking the street, and stopping at the booths. 
Fanucci stands there a moment; he is known by everyone, and considers himself highly loved. 
Then Fanucci begins the walk through the festa, on his way home. 
EXT. ROOFTOPS - MOVING VIEW - NIGHT 
Vito silently moves along the rooftop; paralleling Fanucci's walk. 
We HEAR the sounds of the festa, and every so often catch a glimpse of the patterned lights, and the crowds below. 
EXT. FESTA STREETS - MOVING VIEW ON FANUCCI - NIGHT 
walking through the crowded streets.  The statue of San Gennaro is arranged in some midnight religious ceremony. 
The VIEW LIFTS UP, to the rooftops. 
EXT. THE ROOFTOPS - NIGHT 
Vito makes the leap that separates two buildings; then crosses toward the large skylight in the center of the building. 
EXT. THE STREETS - NIGHT 
The procession in the streets is preceded by ten altar boys; and the glittering Monstrance, something of an altar carried out into the streets. 
The priest begins this nocturnal service, as the crowds in the street kneel down in prayer. 
INT. FANUCCI'S BUILDING - NIGHT 
Fanucci unlocks the door to his building; we can HEAR the services in the background. 
EXT. THE ROOFTOP - NIGHT 
Vito tries the trap door on the roof; it is stuck firmly shut; despite Clemenza's instructions.  He struggles with it, but no luck. 
From the distance, the Choir begins to Latin.  Vito moves around the skylight, to an identical trap, tries this one; it opens. 
EXT. THE MONSTRANCE - MED. VIEW ON THE PRIEST - NIGHT 
performing the services in Latin.  The ten altar boys are in attendance. 
EXT. THE ROOFTOP - NIGHT 
Vito reaches down into the trap, and pulls out the newly oiled gun that has been left for him.  He slides down into the building. 
INT. FANUCCI'S HALLWAY - DOWN ANGLE - NIGHT 
Fanucci proceeds up the staircase with loud, heavy steps. An OLD WOMAN on one of the flights sees him, and immediately moves to her apartment. 
FANUCCI (Sicilian) What's the matter, Signora?  You don't say 'good evening'? 
WOMAN (Sicilian) 'Good evening,' Signor Fanucci. 
She quickly disappears behind her door.  Fanucci laughs, continues up, singing to himself.  The MASS outside is always in evidence. 
INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Vito climbs down from the attic, and finds Fanucci's rear door open.  He slips in, and makes his way past the open windows, out of which pour the music and chanting of the Mass.  Slowly and quietly he pulls them down, shut. 
He moves quietly to a glass door, and peeks out. 
WHAT HE SEES: 
Three young women, Fanucci's DAUGHTERS, laughing and talking. 
VIEW ON VITO 
A slip up.  Tessio had said they were out.  He steps outside to the alley where he can look into the apartment. 
ANOTHER VIEW 
Fanucci opens the door of his apartment, and enters. 
CLOSE VIEW ON VITO 
He begins to wrap the gun. 
VIEW ON THE DAUGHTERS 
Their father greets them with a kiss; and a little religious gift he has bought for each. 
An arrow pointing to him is marked "DAD." Under it, a nine year old's handwriting says: "Do you like it?  Check YES __ I liked it or NO __ I didn't like it." Michael turns, looking for a pencil, and moves to the dresser, where he places a check next to "YES." 
He starts to cross back toward his side of the bed, when Kay turns, almost in her sleep: 
KAY Michael?  Why are the drapes open? 
His eyes dart back to the curved, beautifully leaded windows of the room.  The DRAPES are opened.  Then, without a second's hesitation, he leaps to the floor, still holding his son's drawing, as a spray of machine gun bullets sweep across the windows; glass shattering all over the room. 
Kay screams out; rising, still half-asleep.  Michael crawls toward her, and pulls her down to the floor to him. 
Then, for a moment, there is silence, soon filled by the shouts of men; as flashes of light sweep by the window, as guards with flashlights come running. 
Michael holds Kay to him, knowing they have both survived, and then gently: 
MICHAEL Go with the kids. 
EXT. THE TAHOE ESTATE - NIGHT 
Suddenly, the great floodlights are turned on, bathing lawns in an intense blue light. 
Groups of ordinarily dressed security men drawn in from all directions; a state of confusion prevails.  There is no sign of the attackers. 
VIEW BY MICHAEL'S HOUSE 
Michael is joined by Rocco Lampone, his gun drawn. 
ROCCO They're still on the property. Maybe you better stay inside. 
MICHAEL Keep them alive. 
Six men take up posts by Michael's house. 
ROCCO We'll try. 
MICHAEL It's important. 
He returns inside. 
EXT. MAIN GATE AND KENNELS - NIGHT 
The character of the summer estate has changed: bright floodlights illuminate the main points of entry: the main gate; the waterway; the stone wall that encompasses the estate on all sides. 
Several men with flashlights reinforce the guard at the main gate. 
FULL VIEW 
Off in the distance, we see another group of men with flashlights combing the waterline.  We hear indistinguishable shouts. 
VIEW ON THE KENNELS 
The wire gates are opened, and the trained dogs go out yelping into the outer edge of the estate. 
ROOFTOP 
One of Rocco's men turns the large floodlight scanning darkened forest areas, where men could hide. 
MOVING VIEW 
Men with flashlights and dogs.  Moving through the dark areas. 
LOOSE VIEW 
A small Corleone launch, with a bright spotlight slowly cruises the boundaries of the estate.  We SEE the silhouette of men with guns, quietly waiting and watching. 
EXT. MICHAEL'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Some of the bodyguards by the shattered windows of Michael's bedroom. 
The curtains are drawn from inside. 
INT. MICHAEL'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Kay, the children, and some women servants have come down from the various rooms into the central living area, that can be most easily secured.  The little girl is still asleep; they make you think of an immigrant family, with their blankets and frightened faces, all waiting in a central room. 
Michael goes up to Kay, squeezes her hand, and whispers: 
MICHAEL It will be all right.  We were lucky. 
She says nothing; but her face expresses the anger she feels over the jeopardy Michael has placed his children in.  She holds her young daughter in her arms. 
The door opens, and Rocco enters.  He quickly realizes he is holding his gun in plain view in front of the family, and puts it away.  Michael moves to him, and they talk a distance away from Kay. 
ROCCO Your family all seem to be okay in the other houses; your Mother's still sleeping. 
MICHAEL And? 
ROCCO No sign of them yet; but they're still on the Estate. 
We HEAR loud shouting from outside. 
DEANNA (O.S.) Goddamn you!  You're all nuts here, I'm not goin' to calm down... 
MICHAEL'S VIEW 
Through the door, that Rocco opens. 
Deanna, in her nightgown, has been frightened by the gunshots; while Fredo in his bathrobe, tries to get her back into the house. 
FREDO Deanna, will you get back into the house! 
DEANNA I'm getting out of here I said; these guys all have guns! 
MICHAEL Fredo, can't you shut that woman up! (to Rocco's men) Get her in here! 
The bodyguards, gracefully help Fredo bring the hysterical Deanna into the safety of the house. 
DEANNA (whimpering) I don't want to stay here... 
FREDO Mike, what can I do, she's a hysterical woman... 
KAY Leave her alone!  You're talking as though she has no right to be frightened when there are machine guns going off in her backyard. 
MICHAEL (to Rocco) Have Tom Hagen meet me in the Harbor House. 
EXT. TAHOE ESTATE - HIGH ANGLE - NIGHT 
Michael walks the short distance from his house, to the boathouse where he conducts his business away from his family. 
A small group of bodyguards, carrying machine guns, make the walk with him from all sides, a respectful distance away. It gives the appearance of a lonely President moving in his compound, followed by teams of Secret Service men. 
The boathouse is already secured by teams of men, hastily wakened from their lodge house; a barracks-like structure where reinforcements are lodged just for this kind of emergency. 
FULL VIEW 
In the distance, we can see the teams of men and dogs, with their lights, guns and shouts, combing every inch of the estate. 
INT. THE BOATHOUSE - EMPTY VIEW - NIGHT 
Michael alone in the great room.  He moves to a walk-in safe, quickly runs through the combination, and opens it. He takes out an envelope, and puts it into his pocket; there's a KNOCK on the door, and Hagen enters.  He had been asleep, and has quickly thrown on a robe. 
MICHAEL Sit down, Tom. 
EXT. TAHOE BOATHOUSE - NIGHT 
Kay exits her house, followed by her children; she helps them into her station wagon like any housewife, and drives along the path leading to the main gate. 
She's about to drive through, when one of the men steps in front of her, raising his hand. 
KAY (graciously) Yes. 
MAN I'm sorry, Mrs. Corleone.  We're not to let you through. 
KAY (disbelieving) I'm going to the market. 
MAN If you could just give us a list, we'll pick up anything you want. 
KAY Whose orders are these? 
MAN Mr. Hagen's, ma'am. 
We notice Hagen walking to them in the background. 
HAGEN Kay. 
VIEW THROUGH THE GATE 
Hagen approaches the car; Kay gets out so they can talk away from the children. 
HAGEN I wanted to explain this myself... I had business in Carson City. 
He walks with her a little way from the others; the children run out of the station wagon, and start to play. 
HAGEN It's Michael's request...for your safety.  We can send out for anything you need. 
KAY I'm supposed to stay in my house. 
HAGEN Within the compound will be fine. 
KAY I was supposed to take the children to New England next week. 
HAGEN That's off now. 
KAY I'm going to see my parents. 
HAGEN Kay, Michael didn't tell me a lot; and what he did tell me, I can't repeat.  But the responsibility for you and the kids was the most important thing he left me with. 
KAY How long does this go on? 
HAGEN I don't know. (pause) I'm sorry, Kay... 
KAY Am I a prisoner? 
HAGEN That's not the way we look at it. 
Angrily, without another word, Kay turns away from him, and walks to her children, ignoring the running station wagon. 
EXT. ITALIAN LUXURY LINER - DAY 
The luxury liner making its way across the Atlantic. 
INT. ITALIAN LUXURY LINER - MED. VIEW - DAY 
The PURSER followed by several white uniformed associates knocks on the door of something designated the "Leonardo Suite." He is holding a telegram. 
The door opens, and a tanned Merle peeks out of the door. 
PURSER (holding up the telegram) I'm terribly sorry to disturb you but we have received two telegrams. 
MERLE (reluctantly) Well...come in. 
This entourage enters the suite, an impressive and beautifully spacious luxury suite.  Connie is relaxing. 
CONNIE What is it? 
PURSER Yes.  One is from our office in New York.  The check that you wrote for your passage has been returned. 
CONNIE Can't be... 
MERLE Why don't you wire your bank? 
PURSER The other telegram is from your bank.  Your account has been closed and the company is warned not to extend any credit. 
CONNIE I'll take care of it in Naples. 
PURSER The company hopes so.  But for now, we have orders to change your accommodations. 
And with that, the men in white begin to pack Connie and Merle's luggage. 
CONNIE That son of a bitch! 
INT. ITALIAN LUXURY LINER - TINY THIRD CLASS CABIN - NIGHT 
Connie and Merle are attempting to sleep in the miniature cabin in bunk beds.  The little space is crowded with their trunks and luggage.  Merle can barely hang onto the bunk, the boat pitches so violently below. 
EXT. TRAIN TRACKS - MED. VIEW - DAY 
A train speeds across the countryside. 
INT. THE TRAIN - DAY 
Inside the corridor, a porter advances, and knocks on the door of a stateroom.  A voice tells him to enter.  OUR VIEW enters with him as he carries a tray of lunch.  From this POV we see Michael Corleone sitting in the compartment. 
PORTER Mr. Paul? 
MICHAEL Yes. 
PORTER You ordered lunch? 
MICHAEL Put it right there. 
The porter does so; as he places the tray down, he catches a glimpse of a second person in the compartment with Michael. 
HIS VIEW 
A very fierce, almost maniacal looking man, BUSSETTA.  He nods that the porter should leave. 
MICHAEL Thank you. 
The porter takes his advice and leaves quickly, closing the door behind him. 
VIEW THROUGH THE WINDOW 
Michael and his mysterious companion have lunch together on the moving train. 
EXT. GULFSTREAM RACE TRACK IN MIAMI - HIGH FULL VIEW - DAY 
The empty parking lot of the Gulfstream track, on an off- race day. 
CLOSER VIEW 
Michael sits behind the wheel of a nondescript late model car.  Bussetta sits in the rear. 
Another car swings into the lot.  Michael starts his car, and pulls out of the lot; the second car following. 
NEW VIEW 
This car pulls out and begins to follow them.  Michael glances back by adjusting the rear view mirror, and nods to Bussetta. 
OPERATOR We have your call to Tahoe, Nevada, sir. 
MICHAEL Thank you. (click, click) Tom?  Tom, is that you? 
ROCCO (O.S.) No, Tom's out of town.  This is Rocco.  Who is this? 
Michael is openly disturbed that Hagen is not there.  He hangs up without answering. 
EXT. NEW ENGLAND HOUSE - DAY 
Tom Hagen steps out of a taxicab a bit tentatively, and then steps toward the door of a pleasant New England house.  He rings the bell and waits, hat in hand.  A moment later, the door opens, and Kay is standing there. 
KAY I'm not surprised to see you, Tom. 
INT. SMALL ROOM - NEW ENGLAND HOUSE - MED. VIEW - DAY 
Out to the yard, where we can see glimpses of little Anthony playing by himself. 
KAY (O.S.) I can't love a man like that; I can't live with him, I can't let him be father to my children.  Look. 
The little boy, moodily by himself. 
VIEW ON KAY 
obviously moved. 
KAY He's not like a little boy... he doesn't talk to me; he doesn't want to play; he doesn't like other children, he doesn't like toys. It's as though he's waiting for the time he can take his Father's place. (almost in tears) You know what he told me when he was four years old.  He said he had killed his Grandfather... 
VIEW ON HAGEN 
listening, calmly. 
KAY ... He said he had shot his Grandfather with a gun, and then he died in the garden.  And he asked me... he asked me, Tom, if that meant now his father would shoot him out of... revenge. (she cries) How does a four year old boy learn the word... 'revenge'? 
HAGEN Kay... Kay... 
VIEW ON KAY 
KAY What kind of a family is this... are we human beings?  He knows his Father killed his Uncle Carlo.  He heard Connie. 
HAGEN You don't know that's true.  But Kay, just for the sake of an argument, let's assume it is, I'm not saying it is, remember, but... What if I gave you what might be some justification for what he did... or rather some possible justification for what he possibly did. 
KAY That's the first time I've seen the lawyer side of you, Tom.  It's not your best side. 
HAGEN Okay, just hear me out.  What if Carlo had been paid to help get Sonny killed?  What if his beating of Connie that time was a deliberate plot to get Sonny out into the open? Then what?  And what if the Don, a great man, couldn't bring himself to do what he had to do, avenge his son's death by killing his daughter's husband?  What if that, finally, was too much for him, and he made Michael his successor, knowing that Michael would take that load off his shoulders, would take that guilt? 
KAY He's not the same as when I met him. 
HAGEN If he were, he'd be dead by now. You'd be a widow.  You'd have no problem. 
KAY What the hell does that mean?  Come on, Tom, speak out straight once in your life.  I know Michael can't, but you're not Sicilian, you can tell a woman the truth; you can treat her like an equal, a fellow human being. 
There is a long silence. 
Then Hagen shakes his head; he can tell her no more. 
HAGEN If you told Michael what I've told you today, I'm a dead man. 
KAY When is it finally over?  I want it to be over before my baby is born. 
HAGEN I don't know.  I hope soon; but it's not over yet, and that's why you and the kids have to come back to me. 
He looks at her; it's clear that he has been entrusted with her safety and her children's. 
He is a kind, good man, and seems very nervous and overwrought. 
VIEW ON THE WINDOW 
Little Anthony is pressing his face against the glass pane, as though he senses the adults are discussing something of importance to him. 
INT. TROPICANA HOTEL-CASINO - MED. VIEW - NIGHT 
The Baccarat table.  Busy, hundred dollar bills being played. 
LOUDSPEAKER Mr. Corleone; Mr. Freddie Corleone, telephone please. 
PIT BOSS Not here. 
VIEW ON THE CRAP TABLES 
The play is fast; pit boss presiding; but no sign of Fredo. 
LOUDSPEAKER Telephone for Mr. Corleone. 
ANOTHER PART OF THE CASINO 
We see Neri, ominous, presiding over the entire store.  He picks up a pit telephone. 
NERI He's backstage. (and hangs up disgustedly) 
INT. TROPICANA BACKSTAGE AREA - MED. VIEW - NIGHT 
Fredo is entertaining two showgirls done up in feathers and what-have-you. 
FREDO C'mon, you got fifteen minutes before the finale!  I want to show you a trick with feathers. 
STAGEHAND Phone for you. 
FREDO Don't go away; wait a minute. 
He takes the phone; we can catch a VIEW of the show going on from the wings. 
FREDO (on the phone) Yeah.  Okay.  Who?  Mikey?  But... Si... si, caposco. (in Sicilian) Sure... how much?  I understand. Jesus, three million... I won't let you down.  Sure. 
He hangs up thoughtfully. 
ONE OF THE GIRLS Freddie; we still got twelve minutes before the finale! 
FREDO Yeah... some other time. 
EXT. NEW YORK BAR - DAY 
There is a light rain.  Pentangeli steps out of his car; points to Willy Cicci. 
PENTANGELI Wait in the car. 
He walks up the street, to the bar, where he is greeted by the tall, handsome Carmine Rosato.  They shake hands. Pentangeli looks in his hand. 
CLOSE VIEW 
Rosato has put a crisp one hundred dollar bill in his hand, folded sharply in two. 
PENTANGELI What's this? 
ROSATO That's a lucky C note for our new deal. 
He puts his arm around Pentangeli, and they walk into the bar. 
INT. THE BAR - DAY 
The bar is fairly empty; and very dark.  Pentangeli and Rosato step up to the bar; the bartender momentarily stops polishing glasses to pour a couple of drinks. 
ROSATO We were all real happy about your decision, Frankie; you're not goin' to regret it. 
FREDO That's what I'm here for. 
MICHAEL Tonight I want to relax with you. The Senator from Nevada is here with some people from Washington. I want to show them a good time in Havana. 
FREDO Count on me; that's my specialty. 
MICHAEL I'd like to come along.  There's been a lot of strain, and I've been cooped up in this room for three days. 
FREDO Me and you, great!  Gimme an hour to wash my face and do my research and we'll have these Washington suckers right where you want 'em. (then a thought strikes him) Poor Frankie Five-Angels.  He always wanted to die in bed...with a broad. 
INT. ROTH'S SUITE - MED. VIEW - DAY 
Michael stands at Roth's door carrying the briefcase that Fredo had brought. 
A hotel DOCTOR takes Hyman Roth's blood pressure, while his wife waits nervously. 
DOCTOR (Spanish) You must not exert yourself; I will write out a prescription and come back tomorrow. 
HOTEL MAN He's going to write a prescription. 
ROTH I want my own doctor; fly him in from Miami.  I don't trust a doctor who can't speak English. 
The doctor is shown out.  Roth gestures to the hotel man, who also leaves.  Then he looks to his wife. 
ROTH Honey, go down to the casino? 
TERRI If you feel better... 
ROTH I do.  Play the Bingo game. 
They kiss, and she leaves.  Also Bussetta and Ola remain. 
ROTH My sixth sense tells me you have a bag full of money in your hand. 
Ola locks the door; Michael nods, and opens the bag, spilling its contents on the card table. 
MICHAEL This doubles my investment. 
ROTH Still no word of your courier? We'll find him.  But at least this will satisfy our friends here. You've been invited to the New Year reception at the Presidential Home. I understand your brother is here as well; I hope he'll come. 
MICHAEL Six million dollars in cash is a high price for a piece of a country in the middle of a revolution. 
Roth looks patiently at Michael, as though he were a child who hadn't minded the lesson that he had been taught over and over again. 
ROTH You're a careful kid, and that's good.  But look.  An international dispatch on the wire service. American journalism, not propaganda. The government troops have all but eliminated the rebels.  All but their radio station. 
MICHAEL I've read it; I'm pleased that the government is doing so well.  As a heavy investor, I'm pleased.  How did the doctor find you? 
ROTH Terrible.  I'd give twice this amount to take a piss without it hurting. 
MICHAEL Who had Frankie Pantangeli killed? 
ROTH (taken a bit off-balance) Why...the Rosato Brothers. 
MICHAEL I know that; but who gave the go ahead. 
Roth glances to Ola; he is not a fool; he realizes Michael has begun to suspect him. 
MICHAEL I know it wasn't me...so that leaves you. 
ROTH There was this kid that I grew up with; he was a couple years younger than me, and sort of looked up to me, you know.  We did our first work together, worked our way out of the street.  Things were good and we made the most of it.  During prohibition, we ran molasses up to Canada and made a fortune; your father too.  I guess as much as anyone, I loved him and trusted him. Later on he had an idea to make a city out of a desert stop-over for G.I.'s on the way to the West Coast. That kid's name was Moe Greene, and the city he invented was Las Vegas. This was a great man; a man with vision and guts; and there isn't even a plaque or a signpost or a statue of him in that town.  Someone put a bullet through his eye; no one knows who gave the order.  When I heard about it I wasn't angry.  I knew Moe; I knew he was headstrong, and talking loud, and saying stupid things.  So when he turned up dead, I let it go, and said to myself: this is the business we've chosen. I never asked, who gave the go ahead because it had nothing to do with business. 
He regards Michael silently a moment. 
ROTH (continuing) There's three million dollars on that table.  I'm going to lie down, maybe take a nap.  When I wake up, if it's still there, I'll know I have a partner.  If it's gone, then I'll know I don't. 
The old man turns, and moves in his slippers, toward his bedroom. 
INT. THE CORRIDOR - DAY 
Michael closes the door, and moves down the hallway.  He is followed by Bussetta, who had waited in the corridor. 
MICHAEL (Sicilian) How sick do you think the old man is? 
BUSSETTA (Sicilian) He'll live longer than me. 
INT. TROPICOR NIGHT CLUB - VIEW ON THE SHOW - NIGHT 
A Havana extravaganza, with tall, beautiful showgirls done up in flamboyant, 'South-of-the-Border' Carmen Miranda costumes; the lead singer is a six foot blonde doing "Rum and Coca Cola" in that style.  Her name is YOLANDA. 
MED. VIEW 
At a large round table, located in an obvious VIP section of the high, tropically draped room with living ferns and other tropical planting with artificial stars. 
Michael rises, to be introduced by Fredo to some conservative looking Senatorial types, including Senator Pat Geary of Nevada.  We notice Bussetta standing nearby. 
FREDO Does everyone know everyone, or nobody knows nobody.  Here, my brother, Michael Corleone... well, you know Senator Geary. 
Geary warmly shakes Michael's hand. 
SENATOR GEARY Good to see you, Mike; I'm glad we can spend this time together. 
FREDO This is Senator Payton from Florida; Judge DeMalco from New York... Senator Ream... Mr. Questadt from California, he's a lawyer with the Price-Control Administration.  And Fred Corngold of U T&T. 
They all make themselves comfortable.  A waiter with a tray of drinks appears. 
FREDO Gentlemen... your pleasure?  Cuba Libres, Pina Coladas, you name it. 
SENATOR GEARY I'll take a Yolanda. 
Laughter. 
FREDO Later, later.  All those girls look like they're on stilts! 
The various tropical drinks are distributed. 
SENATOR GEARY To a night in Havana! 
They all join in. 
FREDO (aside to Michael) Jeeze, it's great you came along, Mike... You know, we've never spent a night out on the town together. I always thought you looked down on me for liking a good time. 
MICHAEL I never looked down on you, Fredo. You don't look down at a brother. 
INT. THE CASINO - NIGHT 
By now the group has made its way into the casino.  Some of them are crowded around the crap table; Senator Geary is with the enormous and beautiful Yolanda, who barely speaks English.  There are other girls with some of the men; not with Michael, who gambles dollars while talking to Corngold. 
CORNGOLD Our information is that Castro is dead.  There are maybe a few hundred die-hards in the Sierra Muestra; but government troops are going to clean them out any day. 
Johnny Ola approaches Michael. 
OLA Mike, can I talk to you. 
Michael follows Ola toward the Baccarat table; a watchful Bussetta moves, a distance away, with them. 
OLA Listen, this Senator from Florida already has a hundred grand worth of markers on the table. 
We can see Senator Ream at the table, making thousand dollar bets on the Bank. 
OLA They asked him to sign paper to take down the markers; but he got mad; told them to wait until he was finished. 
MICHAEL Let him gamble. 
EXT. AMERICAN MILITARY MISSION - VIEW ON MICHAEL - DAY 
standing by his car, looking through the cyclone fencing that borders this military training camp operated by the American Army near the city. 
RADIO ... War is not a simple question of rifles, bullets, guns and planes... 
CLOSER VIEW INTO THE CAMP 
EXT. HAVANA STREET - DAY 
A street singer, followed by a guitarist sings Jose Marti's words of "Guantanamera." It is solemn, as though it is a song of protest, a song of the revolution. 
Nearby, in a restaurant, Michael has lunch with Fredo. 
MICHAEL How is your wife, Fredo...your marriage? 
FREDO (eating) You know her; drives me crazy, one minute she's a popsicle, the next she's all vinegar.  Sometimes I think... I think - I should a married someone, like you did.  To have kids, to have a family. 
Michael turns, distracted for a moment at something the singer has sung. 
MICHAEL "Yo soy un hombre sincero..." I am a sincere man, From the land of the palms... 
FREDO What's that? 
MICHAEL The song.  Are you sincere with me, Fredo? 
FREDO Sincere.  What are you talking about, of course I'm sincere with you, Mike. 
MICHAEL Then I'm going to confide in you; trust you with something. 
FREDO (Sicilian) Mike, are you crazy, I'm your brother. 
MICHAEL Tonight we've been invited to a reception at the Presidential Palace; to bring in the New Year. You and I will go in a special car that's being sent.  They'll have cocktails... then dinner, and a reception with the President.  When it's over, it will be suggested that you take Questadt and his friends from Washington to spend the night with some women.  I'll go home alone in the car; and before I reach the hotel, I'll be assassinated. 
FREDO ...Who? 
MICHAEL The same man who tried in Nevada... Hyman Roth, not Pentangeli. 
FREDO But, you told me yourself... 
MICHAEL It was never Pentangeli... I've always known that.  It was Roth all along.  He talks to me as a son; as his successor, but the old man thinks he'll live forever. 
FREDO What do you want me to do? 
MICHAEL To go tonight, with me, as though we know nothing.  I've already made my move. 
FREDO What is it?  Can I help? 
MICHAEL The old man will never bring in the New Year. 
Fredo realizes what he means; looks immediately to Bussetta, who had been sitting near the door and the musicians.  He is gone. 
INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - MOVING VIEW ON BUSSETTA - NIGHT 
The first time ever away from Michael, moving toward us quickly.  He stops, knocks on the door of Roth's suite. Then quickly for a man his size, he moves without noise to the adjoining door, opens it with a key, and disappears inside. 
A moment elapses on the empty corridor, and then a roused Johnny Ola, opens the first door.  He steps out into the corridor, to see who had knocked.  Confused, he is about to return inside, when Bussetta easily breaks his neck in two from behind. 
INT. THE SUITE - MED. VIEW - NIGHT 
as Bussetta quietly pulls the limp body of Johnny Ola, his head bent at an impossible angle, and lays it at the foot of the couch. 
EXT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - NIGHT 
Guards who are regular troops patrol the Palace in twos, carrying machine weapons. 
Now an elite officer, checks the identification of the various cars carrying dignitaries, as they are driven up to the Palace.  The one being inspected at the moment contains Fredo and Michael.  We can see the beautifully dressed people on their way to the reception, and sense the cheerful mood of this New Year's Eve. 
INT. THE SUITE - NIGHT 
Bussetta bends over Ola's body, tying the wrists and knees with electrical extensions.  He then easily carries the body to the small balcony which all the rooms have. 
EXT. THE BALCONY - NIGHT 
Bussetta swings the body over the side of the balcony railing; tying the extension cord to the railing, and suspending the body so that it is invisible both from the inside and out during the night. 
INT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - VIEW ON THE MAIN FOYER - NIGHT 
The PRESIDENT, his WIFE and six oldest CHILDREN great formally the many beautifully and affluently dressed guests. He speaks to them in Spanish, as one by one they file to him. 
Michael and Fredo are presented in a group with several other Americans, including several of the American businessmen with interests in Cuba. 
EXT. STREETS OF HAVANA - MED. VIEW - NIGHT 
The excitement of the night is beginning to build; people are out in the streets; poor people, but they are enthusiastic and lively. 
NEW VIEW 
Traffic stops, as an ambulance speeds its way to a hospital; SIREN going. 
INT. THE SUITE - NIGHT 
Bussetta delicately picks up a small satin cushion that had fallen from the couch, and replaces it as though nothing had happened.  Slowly he cracks the door open which adjoins Roth's bedroom.  There is a slight commotion; whispered voices. 
BUSSETTA'S VIEW 
Terri, Mrs. Roth, is crying.  A group of men lift Hyman Roth's frail body onto a stretcher. 
CLOSE ON BUSSETTA 
realizes that this is the man he is to kill. 
CLOSER VIEW ON ROTH 
He is alive; breathing hard with his mouth dry and open. The doctor examines him, and then gives instructions to the orderly who carries him out, presumably to the ambulance. 
Bussetta closes the door on this VIEW. 
INT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - NIGHT 
An orchestra plays for the guests, as an army of waiters serve champagne and hors d'oeuvres.  Michael relaxes with Senator Geary, Major Leon, and several of the Americans. 
QUESTADT The embargo on arms shipments from the U.S. to your government, was just a necessary public relations move... Only last month, your air force received a major shipment of rockets... 
Michael glances at his watch; Fredo concentrates on this. 
SENATOR GEARY We believe in non-intervention... but the agreement stipulates that our forces may be withdrawn... but as you've seen, we have not withdrawn them. 
CORNGOLD And my guess is that President Eisenhower won't pull out while we have over three billion invested over here. 
MICHAEL Fredo.  Where are you going? 
FREDO Nowhere, Mike.  I wanted to get a refill.  How about you? 
EXT. HAVANA HOSPITAL - MED. VIEW - NIGHT 
The ambulance makes its way up to the emergency section of the hospital.  The orderlies quickly carry the old man inside.  His wife and the doctor, and several of his men, follow in another car. 
THE VIEW ALTERS 
and we see Bussetta waiting in the shadows. 
EXT. HAVANA STREETS - NIGHT 
Things are no different at the airport; where anything that can fly is being jammed with refugees and their money. 
A wealthy family is arguing with the pilot of a fast airplane; trying to force cash on him, and his family into the plane.  The PILOT steadfastly refuses, although checking his watch, as though his passengers are late.  He speaks only English. 
PILOT No, this is a private plane.  No, this plane is taken. 
Finally Michael's Mercury pulls up, and Michael approaches the Pilot. 
MICHAEL He isn't here. 
PILOT We've got to leave, they'll take this thing apart. 
MICHAEL All right.  Go now. 
The Pilot lets Michael in, as the Cuban screams curses at them, and begins searching for another plane for his family. 
INT. THE PLANE - VIEW ON THE PILOT - NIGHT 
as the propeller turns over. 
EXT. THE AIRPORT - FULL VIEW - NIGHT 
Groups of the cheering, celebrating Cubans sing "Guantanamera," now as a song of triumph. 
INT. THE PLANE - MOVING VIEW - MICHAEL - NIGHT 
Closer to him, his personal and business life caught in the middle of history. 
EXT. NEW YORK STREET - MED. VIEW - DAY (1920) 
He stops to pick out some choice oranges and peaches from a fruit stand.  Then he reaches into his pocket for change. 
VENDOR No, no.  It is my pleasure to make this a gift. 
CLOSE VIEW ON VITO 
VITO You are kind.  If ever I can do something for you, in return, please come to me. 
INT. VITO'S TENEMENT - DAY 
Despite his new position of 'respect,' there is little changed about his home.  Only that they have lived there a while now, and the rooms are fuller with the inevitable possessions a young family acquires. 
He kisses his wife, who seems a big apprehensive.  He shows her the fruit; and from her reaction knows she has something on her mind. 
VITO (Sicilian) What is it? 
CARMELLA (Sicilian) Come... 
They step into the tiny parlor, where we see an older woman, waiting nervously. 
CARMELLA The Signora is a friend of mine. She has a favor to ask of you. 
VITO (Sicilian) Why do you come to me? 
SIGNORA COLOMBO (Sicilian) She told me to ask you. 
He seems surprised; looks to his wife. 
CARMELLA She is having some trouble.  Her landlord has received complaints because of her dog.  He told her to get rid of it, but her boy loved it, so they tried to hide it.  When the landlord found out, he was so angry, he ordered her to leave. Even if she truly will let the dog go. 
SIGNORA COLOMBO (Sicilian) He said he would have the police put us out. 
VITO (thoughtfully) I can give you some money to help you move, is that what you want? 
SIGNORA COLOMBO My friends are all here; how can I move to another neighborhood with strangers?  I want you to speak to the landlord to let me stay. 
Vito nods to the frightened old woman. 
VITO It's done then.  You won't have to move; I'll speak to him tomorrow morning. 
Carmella breaks into a smile; which her husband des not acknowledge. 
The old woman starts to leave the room; but she is not convinced. 
SIGNORA COLOMBO You're sure he'll say yes, the landlord? 
VITO I'm sure he's a good-hearted fellow. Once I explain how things are with you, I'm sure he'll take pity on your misfortunes.  Don't let it trouble you any more. (as he shows her out) Guard your health, for the sake of your children. 
EXT. TENEMENT BLOCK - DAY 
SIGNOR ROBERTO, a pompous, rather well-dressed Patrone angrily walks down the steps of one of his tenement buildings. 
He carries a check list, and makes marks with a pencil concerning the condition of his various buildings; a broken window here, some missing tile there.  He bends over to pick up some garbage left by a thoughtless tenant, muttering to himself, when he sees the shoes and legs of a young worker. 
VITO (O.S.) Signore Roberto... 
He rises to be face to face with a polite Vito Corleone. 
VITO The friend of my wife, a poor widow with no man to protect her, tells me that for some reason she has been ordered to move from your building.  She is in despair.  She has no money, she has no friends except those that live here. 
Signor Roberto brusquely answers, and continues on his way. 
ROBERTO I have already rented the apartment to another family. 
MOVING SHOT ON THE TWO 
VITO I told her I would speak to you, that you are a reasonable man who acted out of some misunderstanding. She has gotten rid of the animal that caused all the trouble, so why shouldn't she stay.  As one Italian to another, I ask you the favor. 
ROBERTO I've already rented it; I cannot disappoint the new tenants.  They're paying a higher rent. 
VITO How much more a month? 
ROBERTO Eh... (we sense he is lying) Five dollars more. 
Vito reaches into his pocket, and takes out a roll of bills. 
VITO Here is the six month's increase in advance.  You needn't speak to her about it, she's a proud woman.  See me again in another six months. But of course, you'll let her keep her dog. 
ROBERTO Like hell!  And who the hell are you to give me orders.  Watch your manners or you'll be on your Sicilian ass in the street there. 
Vito raises his hands in surprise; his voice is reasonable. 
VITO I'm asking you a favor, only that. One never knows when one might need a friend, isn't that true?  Here, take this money as a sign of my good-will, and make your own decision.  I won't quarrel with it. (he puts the money in Roberto's hand) Do me this little favor, just take it and think carefully.  Tomorrow morning if you want to give me the money back, by all means do so.  If you want the woman out of your house, how can I stop you?  It's your property, after all.  If you don't want the dog in there, I can understand.  I dislike dogs myself. (he pats Roberto on the shoulder) Do me this service, eh?  I won't forget it.  Ask your friends in this neighborhood about me, they'll tell you I'm a man who believes in showing his gratitude. 
Without a word more, Vito leaves a hypnotized Roberto standing in front of the tenement, his hand clasping the money. 
EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - DAY 
A thin young man, almost gawky, walks down the street in this Italian neighborhood, his name is HYMAN SUCHOWSKY. 
He carries his tools as he comes home from work.  He is pursued and tormented by a couple of Italian youths, about his own age, eighteen. 
ITALIAN BOY Kid, where do you live? 
ANOTHER Where'd you get those nigger lips? 
He tries not to be intimidated; finally one of the boys, steps in front of him and stops him. 
ITALIAN BOY Say 'bread' in Italian. 
ANOTHER He dunno. 
ITALIAN BOY Go on; how do you say 'bread' in Italian?  If you're from the neighborhood, you should know how to say 'bread' in Italian. 
CICCI The Corleone Family, Senator.  We called it, "The Family." 
SENATOR (O.S.) What position did you occupy? 
CICCI At first, like everybody, I was a soldier. 
VIEW ON SENATOR KANE 
A thin, angular Baptist with a Mid-Western accent. 
SENATOR KANE What is that exactly? 
CICCI A button.  You know, Senator. 
SENATOR KANE No, I don't know, explain that exactly. 
CICCI When the boss says push the button on a guy, I push the button, see, Senator? 
The Senators treat Cicci with a surface courtesy, as if he were a curious kind of animal, not really human.  Cicci reacts to this by being even more brutally forthright than he has to be, to show his contempt for what he considers a hypocrisy. 
The VIEW ALTERS from Senator Kane to the Committee's attorney, Mr. Questadt. 
QUESTADT You mean you killed people at the behest of your superiors? 
CICCI That's right, counsellor. 
QUESTADT And the head of your family was Michael Corleone. 
CICCI Yeah, counsellor, Michael Corleone. 
SENATOR KANE Did you ever get such an order directly from Michael Corleone? 
CICCI No, Senator, I never talked to him. 
SENATOR SAVOY (very autocratic, deep South, gentlemanly man) There was always a buffer, someone in between you who gave you orders. 
CICCI Yeah, a buffer, the Family had a lot of buffers. 
EXT. THE TROPICANA IN VEGAS - MED. VIEW - DAY 
A limousine pulls up at a private area near the side of the hotel.  Michael exits the limousine followed by Hagen and Neri. 
MICHAEL Do you think they have somebody to back up Cicci? 
HAGEN No.  But if they do have somebody, you'll do three years for perjury if you give them so much as a wrong middle name. 
Michael smiles to him, but it's a cold, deadly smile. 
HAGEN Michael, take the Fifth all the way, that way you can't get into trouble. 
EXT. PRIVATE BALCONY OF CORLEONE APARTMENT AT TROPICANA - DAY 
A Corleone bodyguard waits outside on the balcony overlooking the pool area.  Through the translucent draperies, we see a grouping of me. 
INT. CORLEONE APARTMENT AT THE TROPICANA - DAY 
Michael, Hagen, Neri and Rocco are seated in this luxury in the hotel.  Michael sits in a comfortable chair in his apartment.  Neri comes and brings him a drink without asking, but Michael refuses it. 
MICHAEL Al, get me a wet towel.  Does Kay know I'm back? 
Hagen nods. 
MICHAEL Did the boy get something from me for Christmas? 
HAGEN I took care of it. 
MICHAEL What was it, so I'll know. 
HAGEN A little care he can ride in with an electric motor. 
Neri comes around with a wet face towel, which Michael uses to cool his eyes.  He puts the used towel down on the table. 
MICHAEL Fellas, can you wait outside a minute? 
They know what he means and leave the apartment, going out to the balcony where we can see them but they cannot hear. Only Hagen remains. 
MICHAEL Where's my brother? 
HAGEN Roth got out on a private boat. He's in a hospital in Miami.  Had a stroke but he's recovered okay. Bussetta's dead. 
MICHAEL I asked about Fredo? 
HAGEN The new government arrested him, held him for a couple of days with a lot of the other casino people, including Roth's brother, Sam.  The American Embassy arranged flights for citizens; I'm not sure, but I think he's somewhere in New York. 
MICHAEL I want you to reach Fredo.  I know he's scared, but have one of our people reach him.  Assure him that there will be no reprisals.  Tell him that I know Roth misled him. 
HAGEN My information is that Fredo thought it was a kidnapping.  Roth assured him nothing would happen to you. 
MICHAEL (indicating Rocco and Neri on the balcony) They can come in now. 
HAGEN Wait... there's something else. 
MICHAEL Alright. 
Hagen pauses; doesn't know how to begin. 
MICHAEL (impatiently) Go on, tell me. 
HAGEN Kay had a miscarriage; she lost the baby. 
After a moment: 
MICHAEL Was it a boy or a girl? 
HAGEN Mike, at three and a half... 
MICHAEL What is it, can't you give me straight answers anymore! 
HAGEN It was a boy. 
MICHAEL And Kay...she's all right? 
HAGEN She took the Senate Investigation worse. 
MICHAEL Does she blame it on me?  The baby? 
HAGEN I don't know. 
EXT. TAHOE ESTATE - DAY 
The first snow of the New Year has fallen; the trees are bare, and there is hush all over this part of the Sierras. Michael is driven in his car, looking out at the familiar sight of the home he has been forced to be away from. 
VIEW ON MICHAEL 
looking out from his window.  The last time he had seen the estate it was warm, and the trees were full. 
MOVING VIEW 
approaching the great stone gates; closed.  The bodyguards are not readily visible, but they are there.  The iron gates are opened, and one of the men makes a simple nod of respect, as the car pulls in. 
NEW VIEW 
Inside the estate, the private roads have been freshly plowed, and occasionally a worker will pause to watch the car as it passes. 
DON FRANCESCO (Sicilian) Have him come closer, I can't see very well. 
Vito takes those several steps, so that he is standing right in front of the old man. 
VIEW ON DON FRANCESCO 
looking up, squinting against the sun. 
DON FRANCESCO'S VIEW 
Strangely backlit, almost blurry image of the young man from America. 
DON FRANCESCO (Sicilian) What is your name? 
VITO (Sicilian) Vito Corleone. 
DON FRANCESCO (Sicilian) You took the name of this town, eh? What was your father's name? 
VITO (Sicilian) Antonio Andolini. 
CLOSE VIEW ON THE OLD MAN 
The recognition of the name throws a shudder through him. It is as though he recognizes that this is the boy; the son of his old enemy, whom he had killed, and whose sons he had tried to wipe out.  The old man raises his feeble hands signalling his guard, and in his weak voice, he shouts: 
DON FRANCESCO (Sicilian) Kill him!  Kill him! 
But he is too late; Vito steps forward. 
VITO (Sicilian) In the name of my Father, and my Brother... 
And uses the knife, ritualistically plunging it into the old man's belly, and then up to his throat, which is severed. 
VIEW ON TOMASINO 
has drawn his pistol and quickly shoots one of the guards, helping Vito to escape back into the motor car. 
VIEW ON A GUARD 
raising his shotgun. 
VIEW ON THE MOTOR CAR 
Just as Tomasino is about to get into the car, the shotgun is fired, and he is hit in the legs. 
Vito manages to pull him up into the car, and they make their escape. 
EXT. RAILROAD STATION IN CORLEONE - DAY 
Some of the townspeople have come bringing flowers and gifts for Vito and his family. 
His wife is radiant with the flowers given her. 
The train has arrived and the crowd shout "Ciao, come back soon." 
THE VIEW ALTERS 
revealing his good friend Tomasino, waving from his wheelchair. 
VIEW ON VITO 
and his wife.  She holds up the baby Michael, and helps him wave his hand. 
INT. SENATE CAUCUS ROOM - MED. CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL - DAY 
SENATOR KANE (O.S.) Are you the son of Vito Corleone? 
MICHAEL Yes. 
SENATOR KING Did he use at times an alias?  Was this alias in certain circles GODFATHER? 
MICHAEL It was not an alias.  GODFATHER was a term of affection, used by his friends, one of respect. 
SENATOR WEEKLER (Senator from New York, very smooth, partly liberal, Tammany Hall) Let me agree with that.  Many of my constituents are Italian and have been honored with that certain friendship by my close Italian friends.  Up to this point before I have to leave this hearing to join my own committee, let me say, that this hearing on the Mafia is in no way a slur on the Italians by the Senate; nor is it meant to be; nor will I allow it to be.  Italian Americans are the hardest working, most law abiding patriotic Americans of our country.  It is a shame and a pity that a few rotten apples give them a bad name.  We are here to weed those rotten apples out of the vast healthy barrel of Italian Americans, who are one of the backbones of our country. 
There is a pause for a while, while the New York Senator poses for the TV cameras and leaves the hearing so that he will not be associated with hearing the rough stuff. 
SENATOR KANE I'm sure we all agree with our esteemed colleague.  Now, Mr. Corleone, you have been advised as to your legal rights.  We have had testimony from a preceding witness who states you are head of the most powerful Mafia family in this country.  Are you? 
MICHAEL No. 
SENATOR KANE This witness has testified that you are personally responsible for the murder of a New York Police Captain in the year 1947 and with him a man named Virgil Sollozzo.  Do you deny this? 
MICHAEL I deny his every charge. 
SENATOR KANE Is it true that in the year 1950 you devised the murder of the heads of the Five Families in New York, to assume and consolidate your nefarious power? 
MICHAEL That is a complete falsehood. 
SENATOR KANE Is it true that you own a controlling interest in three of the major hotels in Las Vegas? 
MICHAEL That is not true.  I own some stock in some of the hotels, but only very small amounts.  I also own some American Telephone and IBM stock. 
Michael had checked this point with Hagen, before answering, and then once again after the answer. 
SENATOR ROGERS Why is it necessary for your counsel to advise you on that question? 
MICHAEL Senator, I've observed the head of General Motors before a Senate Committee, and his lawyer whispered in his ear.  That was not commented upon in the way you have just done. 
SENATOR KANE Mr. Corleone, do you have any hotel interests in the state of Arizona? Or any gambling interests in that state? 
MICHAEL I do not. 
SENATOR KANE Do you have interests or control over gambling and narcotics in the state of New York. 
MICHAEL I do not. 
A pause.  Silence, as the Chairman whispers something to his assistant. 
Tom Hagen takes a paper out of his briefcase, and addresses the Chair. 
HAGEN Senator, my client would like to read a statement for the record. 
SENATOR KANE I don't think that's necessary. 
HAGEN Sir, my client has answered every question asked by this committee with the utmost cooperation and sincerity.  He has not taken that Fifth Amendment as it was his right to do, and which because of the extreme legal complexity of this hearing, counsel advised him to do. So, I think in all fairness this committee should hear his statement and put it in the record. 
SENATOR KANE Very well. 
At this point Senator Rogers contemptuously walks out of the hearing room. 
MICHAEL (reading) In the hopes of clearing my family name, in the sincere desire to give my children their fair share of the American way of life without a blemish on their name and background I have appeared before this committee and given it all the cooperation in my power.  I consider my being called before this committee an act of prejudice to all Americans of Italian extraction. I consider it a great dishonor to me personally to have to deny that I am a criminal.  I wish to have the following noted for the record. That I served my country faithfully and honorably in World War II and was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for actions in defense of my country.  That I have never been arrested or indicted for any crime whatsoever... that no proof linking me to any criminal conspiracy, whether it is called Mafia or Cosa Nostra or whatever other name you wish to give, has ever been made public.  Only one man has made charges against me, and that man is known to be a murderer, arsonist and rapist.  And yet this committee had used this person to besmirch my name.  My personal protest can only be made to the people of this country.  I can only thank God that in this country we have a legal system and courts of law to protect innocent people from wild accusation.  I thank God for our democratic due process of Law that shields me from the false charges made by this committee's witness.  I have not taken refuge behind the Fifth Amendment, though counsel advised me to do so.  I challenge this committee to produce any witness or evidence against me, and if they do not, I hope they will have the decency to clear my name with the same publicity with which they have now besmirched it.  I ask this without malice, in the interests of fair play. 
The television cameras have documented this moment, as Hagen hands the document over to the committee lawyer. 
SENATOR ROGERS We are all impressed.  The committee will now recess over the weekend. However, it will continue Monday morning, at eleven a.m.  At that time, this committee will then produce a witness directly linking Mr. Corleone to the charges we have made.  And then, Mr. Corleone may very well by liable for indictments of perjury.  However, this document will be made a matter of record. 
EXT. ARMY POST - DAY 
An army post somewhere in the East.  It is safely guarded. 
INT. HOUSE ON THE POST - DAY 
where Pentangeli is being held by his constant companions, the two FBI MEN. 
At first his view is blocked.  Then he sees Michael and is a bit shamefaced, but still defiant. 
PENTANGELI'S POV 
Michael returns his glances without emotion.  Then the VIEW ALTERS, revealing the Sicilian. 
VIEW ON PENTANGELI 
He is terror stricken; obviously he recognizes the man. 
VIEW ON HAGEN'S TABLE 
Michael and the Sicilian sit by Hagen, where they can stare directly at Pentangeli; he is frozen with fear. 
VIEW ON THE SENATOR 
Notices the tension in the room.  The Chairman commences: 
SENATOR KANE We have here a witness who will testify further on Michael Corleone's rule of the criminal empire that controls gambling in this country and perhaps in other countries.  This witness had no buffer between himself and Michael Corleone.  He can corroborate our charges on enough counts for this committee to consider a charge of perjury against Michael Corleone. (then he turns to Pentangeli) Your name please, for the record. 
PENTANGELI Frank Pentangeli. 
SENATOR KANE Were you a member of the Corleone Family?  Were you under the Caporegime Peter Clemenza, under Vito Corleone, known as the Godfather? 
There is a long silence. 
VIEW ON PENTANGELI 
He seems unable to speak. 
VIEW ON THE SICILIAN 
gazing at him. 
VIEW ON PENTANGELI 
PENTANGELI I never knew no Godfather.  I got my own family. 
Senator Kane is stunned.  The two FBI men are alert, their eyes searching the room for what has intimidated their witness at the last moment. 
SENATOR KANE Mr. Pentangeli, you are contradicting your confessions to our investigators; I ask you again, were you a member of a crime organization headed by Michael Corleone? 
PENTANGELI No.  I never heard of it.  I never heard of nothing like that.  I was in the olive oil business with his father a long time ago.  That's all. 
SENATOR KANE We have your confession that you murdered on the orders of Michael Corleone.  Do you deny that confession and do you know what denying that confession will mean to you? 
The die is cast and like a good soldier, Pentangeli will go all the way now.  So he is brazen in his defiance of the Senator. 
PENTANGELI The FBI guys promised me a deal. So I made up a lot of stuff about Michael Corleone.  Because then, that's what they wanted.  But it was all lies.  Everything.  They said Michael Corleone did this, Michael Corleone did that.  So I said, "Yeah, sure." 
He makes a big grin to show how he has made fools of everybody. 
VIEW ON THE FBI AGENTS 
glancing around the room; their eyes have settled on the Sicilian.  One of them scribbles a note on a piece of paper, and passes it to the Committee lawyer.  Then in turn it goes to Senator Kane. 
SENATOR KANE Mr. Hagen, would you kindly identify to this committee that gentleman sitting on your right hand? 
HAGEN (coolly) Yes, sir.  His name is Vincenzo Pentangeli. 
SENATOR KANE Is he related to the witness? 
HAGEN He is, I believe, a brother. 
VIEW ON MICHAEL AND VINCENZO PENTANGELI 
They wait with no expression. 
SENATOR KANE (to Vincenzo Pentangeli) Sir, I would like you to take the stand. 
Vincenzo stares at him, uncomprehending.  There may just be a shadow of contempt.  He doesn't answer. 
HAGEN Sir, the gentleman does not understand English.  He would not in any case, take the stand.  He came, at his own expense, to aid his brother in his trouble.  He is not under any jurisdiction of our government and his reputation in his own country is impeccable. 
SENATOR KANE (furious) The witness is excused; take him out. 
The guards and FBI Agents quickly remove Pentangeli, as everybody else in the room is required to sit still. 
HAGEN Senator Kane. 
SENATOR KANE This meeting is adjourned. 
HAGEN (rising and shouting) This committee owes an apology! 
SENATOR KANE The committee is adjourned until further notice. 
For the first time, in the midst of the confusion, Hagen smiles.  A bitter, contemptuous smile. 
VIEW ON MICHAEL 
The modest champion.  He rises and they take their leave. 
VIEW ON THE TWO FBI AGENTS 
They watch the Corleone party as they exit. 
INT. WASHINGTON HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY 
The Corleone nurse is waiting, playing with the little girl MARY.  A distance away, the boy, Anthony, is standing by himself. 
INT. MICHAEL'S SUITE - WASHINGTON HOTEL - DAY 
The door to Michael's suite opens; Rocco leans in. 
ROCCO It's Kay. 
Michael is sitting in an easy chair; he seems to have difficulty with his eyes. 
MICHAEL On the phone? 
ROCCO No, she's here. 
Michael rises, surprised.  Rocco steps back, and Kay enters. 
MICHAEL I had no idea... 
KAY I wanted to see you before you went back to Nevada.  Also, the children - Michael, they're here. 
MICHAEL Where? 
KAY In a minute.  They're outside with Esther.  I'm very happy for you... I suppose I knew that you're simply too smart for anyone ever to beat you. 
MICHAEL Why don't you sit down? 
KAY I'm not going to stay long; I can't. 
MICHAEL There are a lot of things I want to talk to you about.  Things I've been thinking about -- changes I want to make. 
KAY I think it's too late for changes, Michael.  I promised myself I wouldn't talk about it and I've gone and spoiled it. 
MICHAEL Why too late? 
KAY Tell me, Michael.  What really happened with Pentangeli? 
An exhausted Hyman Roth, ill-shaven, and in shirt-sleeves in taken into custody by a swarm of Customs, and FBI men.  They allow him to be photographed by press people; and television cameramen. 
FBI MAN Mr. Roth, we have to take you into custody. 
ROTH Yes, I know. 
Some flashbulbs go off. 
REPORTER Can you give us your reaction to the High Court of Israel's ruling. 
ROTH I am a retired investor on a pension, and I wished to live there as a Jew  in the twilight of my life... 
LAWYER Mr. Roth is not a well man; he's tired of running. 
ROTH I'm an old man; at my age, it's too late to start worrying. 
REPORTER Is it true you are worth over three hundred million dollars, Mr. Roth? 
ROTH I'm a retired investor, living on a pension... I came home to vote in the Presidential election, because they wouldn't give me an absentee ballot... 
The newsmen and photographers all laugh, as the FBI men move him away. 
CLOSE VIEW 
One of the newspapermen laughing we recognize to be Rocco Lampone. 
He moves closer to Roth, and shoves his revolver right against his head, and in a second, on camera, assassinates Roth.  People scream, as Rocco attempts to run down the airport corridor, limping as he does. 
FBI men easily pick him off. 
FADE OUT. 
EXT. THE DRIVEWAY BY MICHAEL'S HOUSE - DAY 
A taxi cab waits by the house; its driver sleeping with a newspaper over his face. 
INT. MICHAEL'S HOUSE - DAY 
The cleaning woman, Esther, who had been with Kay for years, sits by the dining room table, weeping profusely.  Behind her, in the recreation room, we can see the tableau of Kay sitting on the couch, her little daughter Mary, between her knees, talking quietly about things we cannot hear.  Her son Anthony sits by himself, in another chair by the side of the room. 
MED. VIEW 
Connie comes into the house quickly, and moves toward them. 
CONNIE Kay, you have to go. 
This prompts Esther to weep all the more.  Kay hugs her daughter, and kisses her many times. 
CONNIE You have to hurry; he's coming. 
Kay puts her coat on; then stands, and reaches out for her son. 
KAY Anthony, kiss Mama goodbye. 
He doesn't move. 
CONNIE (angrily) Anthony, you kiss your Mother goodbye! 
He rises, and walks to her.  Hugs her lifelessly. 
MED. CLOSE VIEW 
on Kay, kissing her boy. 
KAY Anthony, say goodbye; your Mama loves you. 
ANTHONY Goodbye. 
She restrains any tears; she has become too strong for tears. Kay starts to go; picks up Mary, kisses her, and starts to go. 
NEW VIEW 
She steps out the kitchen door; then she cannot help herself. Crouches down, outside, and calls to her son. 
KAY Anthony, kiss me once. 
Then she looks up, and slowly rises. 
HER VIEW 
Michael has stepped into the dining room.  He seems older somehow; as though some sickness has taken more years away from him. 
VIEW ON KAY 
looks at him; instinctively, she takes a step back. 
VIEW ON MICHAEL 
slowly steps toward her. 
VIEW ON KAY 
Another step back; the door is still open. 
VIEW ON MICHAEL 
He moves closer to the door; stops, looks at her.  And then closes it obscuring any view of her. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. TAHOE ESTATE - DAY 
It is late fall -- most of the leaves have fallen on the grounds and there is quite a wind. 
MED. VIEW 
The water is whipped up by the wind, and the waves are high as they break against the pavilion.  We HEAR the MUSIC of time passing, of Michael, of the Godfather over these images. 
VIEW ON THE SWIMMING POOLS 
They have not been used in several months; they are drained and the bottoms are mossy and dark. 
VIEW ON THE MAIN GATE 
Leaves blowing past it; we don't see the button men; only a hint of someone in the gatehouse. 
VIEW ON THE HOUSES 
Some of the houses have had the summer awnings taken down, and put away.  Some of the windows have been boarded up. 
VIEW ON THE KENNELS 
There are still the guard dogs; some sleeping, some moving impatiently. 
As the MUSIC concludes its statement. 
MED. VIEW 
The peninsula of the private Corleone Harbor.  We see the figures of two people, seated at a table. 
MED. VIEW 
Michael sits at a table having a sparse lunch.  He is attended by his sister Connie, who seems to be the closest person now living on the estate with him.  We see from the way she pampers him with his lunch, that she has fallen into the role of a surrogate Mother-Wife.  He seems older than his years, as though his illness, diabetes, has taken its toll. 
