CLAY Yeah.  I better get on with my work. 
Whale clears his throat behind the back of his hand. 
WHALE When you're through, Mr. Boone, feel free to make use of the pool. We're quite informal here.  You don't have to worry about a suit. 
Clay glances warily at Whale. 
CLAY No thanks.  I got another job to get to this afternoon. 
Whale holds Clay's look. 
WHALE Some other time, perhaps?  Keep up the fine work. 
Whale heads off, smiling to himself.  Pleased to be naughty again. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - STUDIO - DAY 
The room is filled with unframed canvasses, many of them copies of paintings by the Old Masters. 
Whale rolls out the easel, lifts a half-painted canvas into position.  He stares at the blotches of color, trying to remember what he intended to paint. 
Whale pulls out a heavy volume on Rembrandt, opens to a black-and-white plate of "The Polish Rider."  We CUT TO: 
INT. WHALE HOUSE - DUDLEY - NIGHT (1908) 
A rough pencil outline of the same painting.  Whale, age 16, sits on his bed, ignoring the roughhousing of the three younger BROTHERS who share the room.  The door opens and Whale's mother SARAH enters. 
SARAH WHALE Jimmy.  The privy needs cleaning. 
WHALE I have my class tonight. 
Both have Midlands accents, like head colds that flatten their speech.  Whale holds up the sketch to show his mother. 
SARAH WHALE Don't get above yarself, Jimmy. Leave the drawring to the artists. 
Whale squeezes the pad behind the bed, jumps up. 
WHALE Quite so, mum.  To the privy. 
And he heads cheerfully out of the room.  His mother shakes her head. 
SARAH WHALE "Quite so." (calls out) Jimmy Whale.  Who are ya to put on airs? 
But Whale is already out the door.  We CUT TO: 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY 
Whale studies his face in the mirror.  He gives his white hair a few final licks with his silver-backed brush. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 
Whale comes in from the bedroom. 
WHALE There is iced tea, Hanna?  Cucumber sandwiches? 
HANNA Yes, Mr. Jimmy. (smiles) An interview.  After so many years. Very exciting. 
WHALE Don't be daft.  It's just a student from the university. 
The doorbell rings. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 
Whale settles into his club chair and opens a book, pretending to read until Hanna ushers in the visitor. 
HANNA Mr. Kay, sir. 
WHALE (feigning surprise) Yes? 
Whale looks up at EDMUND KAY, 22, a slim boy who rests his weight on one slouched hip, his arms twined behind him. There is a look of mild disappointment on Whale's face as he realizes that Kay is a baby poof. 
WHALE Ah, Mr. Kay.  I'd almost forgotten. My guest for tea. 
Whale stands and holds out his hand. 
KAY Mr. Whale, this is such an honor. You're one of my favorite all-time directors.  I can't believe I'm meeting you. 
WHALE (gently, teasing) No.  I expect you can't. 
KAY And this is your house.  Wow.  The house of Frankenstein. (looks around) I thought you'd live in a spooky old mansion or villa. 
WHALE One likes to live simply. 
WHALE You can go now. 
She makes an audible sigh and starts back up the hill. 
WHALE There was one play in particular, a beautiful, grim study of war called "Journey's End".  Every experienced director turned it down, so I offered myself, bullying and begging for the job.  "Journey's End" made the careers of everyone associated with it.  It was only a matter of time until Hollywood beckoned. 
KAY How much longer before we get to "Frankenstein"? 
WHALE Am I correct in assuming, Mr. Kay, that it's not me you're interested in, only my horror pictures? 
KAY Oh no, I want to hear everything. You made twenty pictures in all -- 
WHALE Twenty-one.  The romantic comedies and dramas were much more to my liking.  The horror pictures were trifles.  Grand guignol for the masses. 
KAY But it's the horror movies you'll be remembered for. 
An abrupt look of anger flashes across Whale's face. 
WHALE I am not dead yet, Mr. Kay. 
KAY No.  I never said you were.  Or will be soon. 
Kay leans over the steno pad, determined to be more worthy. 
KAY So.  "Journey's End" brought you to Hollywood -- 
Whale takes in the boy's blank, bored expression.  He sighs. 
WHALE I have a proposal, Mr. Kay.  This mode of questioning is getting old, don't you think? 
KAY I don't mind. 
WHALE Let's make it more interesting.  I will answer any question you ask. But, for each answer, you must remove one article of clothing. 
Kay's mouth pops open. 
KAY That's funny, Mr. Whale. 
WHALE It is, isn't it?  My life as a game of strip poker.  Shall we play? 
KAY You're serious. 
WHALE Quite. 
KAY Then the rumors are true? 
WHALE What rumors might those be? 
KAY That you were forced to retire because, uh -- a sex scandal. 
WHALE A homosexual scandal, you mean? For me to answer a question of that magnitude, you'll have to remove both your shoes and your socks. 
Kay just sits there, squinting and grinning. 
KAY You're a dirty old man. 
Whale tilts his head as if brushing off a compliment.  Kay kicks off his penny loafers, bends over to remove his socks. 
WHALE You are kind to indulge your elders in their vices.  As I indulge the young in theirs. 
Two pale feet emerge.  Whale leans forward to examine them. He leans back again. 
WHALE No.  There was no scandal. 
And he reaches into his coat for a cigar.  Whale's hand trembles as he slices a hole at the base, then lights the cigar with a wooden match, sucking and rotating until the tip is roundly lit. 
WHALE My only other vice.  I suppose you'd like a fuller answer to your question. 
Kay nods. 
WHALE It will cost you your sweater. 
Kay hesitates a moment, then sets his pen aside to pull the sweater over his head, revealing a sleeveless T-shirt. 
KAY Too warm for a sweater, anyway. 
WHALE You must understand how Hollywood was twenty years ago.  Nobody cared a tinker's cuss who slept with whom, so long as you kept it out of the papers.  Outside of Hollywood, who knows who George Cukor is, much less what he does with those boys from the malt shops along Santa Monica? 
Kay stares at him in disbelief. 
KAY George Cukor?  Who made "A Star Is Born"?  I never guessed. 
WHALE Take off your vest and I'll tell you a story. 
She goes to Whale, scooping different bottles from the pocket of her apron. 
HANNA Which ones?  I bring them all. 
WHALE Luminal. 
She empties a pill into her palm.  Whale places it into his mouth and takes the glass of Water Kay passes over Hanna's shoulder.  Whale swallows the pill, then glances up at Kay, feigning surprise. 
WHALE Mr. Kay.  You're not dressed. 
Kay frantically crosses his arms over his chest and middle, turns to Hanna. 
KAY I was going to take a swim. 
WHALE I'm sorry I spoiled it for you. You should probably go home. 
KAY Right. 
Kay hurries outside to retrieve his clothes.  Hanna undoes Whale's bow tie.  She makes no attempt to be gentle. 
WHALE You must think I'm terrible, Hanna. 
HANNA I do not think you anything anymore.  Just back from the hospital and already you are chasing after boys. 
WHALE Oh shut up.  All we did was talk. My attack had nothing to do with him. 
HANNA Perhaps we should get you uphill before the pills knock you cold. 
WHALE No.  Let me lie here.  Thank you. 
Hanna nods, moves to the door.  Whale closes his eyes, breathes deeply, trying to block the throbbing SOUND in his brain.  We CUT TO: 
INT. FACTORY SHOP FLOOR - DUDLEY - DAY (1908) 
The noise is deafening -- the clank of chains, the screech of wheels and the endless banging of hammers.  William Whale continues to knock away at the hot casting.  The rhythmic sound blends into the insistent knocking of: 
A FIST 
which smashes against sheet metal. 
INT. CLAY'S TRAILER - DAY 
Clay Boone's eyes dart open. 
DWIGHT (O.S.) Boone!  You awake?  Eight o'clock. 
CLAY Fuck off! 
DWIGHT (O.S.) You told me to get you up, asshole. 
A baseball-capped head is visible through the louvered glass in the trailer's door.  DWIGHT JOAD, 30, Clay's neighbor, squints to see inside. 
CLAY I'm up.  Thanks. 
DWIGHT Hasta la vista, Boone.  And give the jail bait a squeeze for me. 
Clay glances over, seems surprised to see a naked back facing him on the bare mattress. 
CLAY Hey, um...Rose -- 
The girl stirs, turns to face him.  She is 18 at most. 
DAISY Daisy. 
CLAY Huh? 
DAISY My name is Daisy. 
CLAY Time to go, Daisy. 
She presses her naked body against Clay's. 
DAISY You know.  I could help you fix up this place real nice. 
Clay takes a deep breath, trying to clear the gumminess from his brain. 
CLAY Don't you have to be somewhere? Like high school maybe. 
DAISY I gave it up for Lent. 
Daisy smiles at her own joke.  Clay frowns. 
CLAY Right. (jumps up from the bed) Time to hit the road, kid. 
WHALE My mind's lovely.  And yours? 
Hanna flares her nostrils at him. 
HANNA You remember what the doctor tells us. 
WHALE Yes, yes, yes.  I merely invited Mr. Boone in for a glass of tea. We'll have a brief chat and he'll finish the yard. 
HANNA I am not forgetting your last brief chat. 
WHALE Just go.  We can manage without you. 
Hanna stares up at Clay. 
HANNA He looks plenty big.  You won't need my help if anything goes flooey. 
WHALE Go. 
She shakes her head and marches out the door.  Clay returns to his chair and sits down again. 
WHALE When they stay in your employ too long, servants begin to think they're married to you. (smiles at Clay) Please, Mr. Boone.  Help yourself. 
CLAY What did she mean by going flooey? 
WHALE I returned recently from a stay in hospital. 
CLAY What was wrong? 
WHALE Nothing serious.  A touch of stroke. 
Clay nods, chugs his tea.  When he lowers the glass, he finds the old man watching him. 
WHALE You must excuse me for staring, Mr. Boone.  But you have a marvelous head. 
CLAY Huh? 
WHALE To an artistic eye, you understand. Have you ever modeled? 
CLAY You mean, like posed for pictures? 
WHALE Sat for an artist.  Been sketched. 
CLAY (with a laugh) What's to sketch? 
WHALE You have the most architectural skull.  And your nose.  Very expressive. 
CLAY Broke is more like it. 
WHALE But expressively broken.  How did it happen? 
CLAY Football in college. 
WHALE You went to university? 
CLAY Just a year.  I dropped out to join the Marines. 
WHALE Yes.  You were a Marine. 
Whale's gaze deepens.  He laughs lightly. 
WHALE I apologize for going on like this. It's the Sunday painter in me.  Of course I can understand your refusal.  It's a great deal to ask of someone. 
CLAY You mean -- you really want to draw me? 
WHALE Indeed.  I'd pay for the privilege of drawing your head. 
CLAY But why? 
WHALE Even an amateur artist needs a subject to inspire him. 
CLAY And it's just my head you want? Nothing else? 
WHALE What are you suggesting?  You'll charge extra if I include a hand or a bit of shoulder. 
CLAY You don't want to draw pictures of me in my birthday suit, right? 
WHALE I have no interest in your body, Mr. Boone.  I can assure you of that. 
Clay takes a moment to size up Whale -- whose innocent, slightly befuddled smile makes him appear about as threatening as a box of cornflakes. 
CLAY All right then.  Sure.  I could use the extra dough. 
WHALE Excellent.  We'll have a most interesting time. 
Clay opens the squeaking door and enters behind Hanna. Whale stands at a drafting table, sharpening a pencil. Hanna sets the tray down. 
WHALE Very good, Hanna.  Now goodbye. 
She goes toward the door, wrinkling her forehead at Clay. The screen door bangs shut. 
WHALE I'm sure you'd like something to wet your whistle while I work. 
Whale opens a bottle of beer, pours it into a glass, hands it to Clay.  He gestures to a chair. 
WHALE We'll go slowly today.  Since this is your first time as a model. 
Clay sits.  He pulls a "TV Guide" out of his back pocket. 
CLAY Did you see this?  They're showing one of your movies tomorrow night. 
WHALE You don't say?  Which picture? 
CLAY "Bride of Frankenstein." 
WHALE Hmmm.  I much prefer "Show Boat" or "The Invisible Man."  Shall we begin? 
Clay takes a swig of beer and sets the glass on the floor. 
CLAY Ready when you are. 
Whale stares at Clay. 
WHALE That shirt, Mr. Boone. 
CLAY It's new. 
WHALE I'm sorry.  It's too white, too distracting.  Would it be asking too much for you to take it off? 
CLAY I'm not wearing an undershirt. 
WHALE Pish posh, Mr. Boone.  I'm not your Aunt Tilly. 
CLAY But it's just my face you want to draw. 
WHALE Oh if it's going to make you uncomfortable... (sighs) Perhaps we can find something else for you to wear. 
He lifts a drop cloth off a footlocker, revealing a stack of "Physique" magazines.  Whale casually covers them with a newspaper. 
WHALE We could wrap this like a toga around your shoulders.  Would that help you overcome your schoolgirl shyness? 
CLAY All right already.  I'll take it off.  Kind of warm in here anyway. 
He unbuttons the shirt and pulls it off. 
WHALE Yes.  Much better. (steps forward) Here. 
Clay adjusts his belt buckle as Whale hangs the shirt on a wall peg.  He moves back to the easel again. 
WHALE I think we'll have you sit slightly sideways, so you can rest one arm on the back of the chair.  Yes. Just so. 
The arm with the tattoo faces the easel.  Clay smirks. 
CLAY Take a picture, it lasts longer. 
WHALE That's exactly what I intend to do. 
A clatter of pencils in the easel's tray, followed by a moment of silence.  Finally, a low, whistly scratch.  Clay concentrates on keeping still, focusing on an open window. 
WHALE You seem to have no idea how handsome you are, Mr. Boone.  It has to do with how snugly your face fits your skull. 
Clay wipes a thin line of sweat from his waist. 
WHALE Would you be more comfortable barefoot?  Feel free to remove your boots and socks. 
CLAY No.  I'm fine. 
WHALE It's a bit like being at the doctor, isn't it?  You have to remain perfectly still while I examine and scrutinize you. 
Whale suddenly sniffs, as if smelling something.  He sniffs several times more but continues to draw. 
WHALE (to himself) Dripping? (to Clay) Do you ever eat dripping in this country?  The fat from roasts and such, congealed in jars.  Used like butter on bread. 
CLAY Sounds like something you feed the dog. 
WHALE It is.  Only the poorest families ever ate it.  We kept ours in a crockery jar. 
CLAY Your family ate dripping? 
CLAY This kisser wasn't so bad you couldn't lay under it a few times. 
DWIGHT Ooooh. 
Betty glares at Clay, who realizes he's gone too far. 
BETTY I bet this is just some fruit pretending to be famous.  So he can get in the big guy's pants. 
DWIGHT Ooooh. 
CLAY What makes you say that? 
BETTY Just thinking out loud. 
CLAY Yeah, well keep your filthy thoughts to yourself. 
BETTY All right, then.  He's interested in you for your conversation.  We know what a great talker you are. 
CLAY Fuck you. 
BETTY Not anymore you don't.  Doll. 
CLAY (explodes) We're watching the movie, Harry. You got that!  We are watching my fucking movie. 
HARRY Calm down, Clay.  Just calm down. We'll watch it. 
CLAY Good.  Fine. 
Harry reaches up, turns on a battered Motorola.  On the tv, a voice announces: "Tonight, Boris Karloff in 'The Bride of Frankenstein.'"  The titles come on.  Ending with the phrase "Directed by", which floats over a white blob.  The blob jumps forward to form letters: "James Whale." 
CLAY Right there.  What did I tell you? James Whale. 
The movie starts.  The Monster being roasted alive in the flaming wreckage of a mill. 
BETTY This looks corny. 
CLAY Go wash glasses if you don't like it. 
In a flooded crater under the mill, the Monster kills an old man.  He climbs up, flips the man's wife into the pit below. An owl blinks impassively. 
DWIGHT Not bad.  Two down and it's just started. 
Minnie, a hatchet-faced woman with fluttering ribbons, is now alone with the Monster. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Whale and Hanna are in bathrobes and slippers, and there is a glass of milk and a plate of cookies on Whale's TV tray. On the tv, Minnie (played by UNA O'CONNOR) squeaks and whimpers and screams.  Whale laughs. 
WHALE Wonderful old Una.  Gobbling like an old turkey hen. 
But Hanna isn't amused.  She unclenches her arms to close the bathrobe over her throat. 
HANNA Oh, that monster.  How could you be working with him? 
WHALE Don't be silly, Hanna.  He's a very proper actor.  And the dullest fellow imaginable. 
Minnie flees in a bowlegged jig up the hill.  Whale smiles again. 
INT. HARRY'S BEACHCOMBER - NIGHT 
On the tv, Dr. Pretorius (played by Ernest Thesiger) delivers a toast with inimitably ripe enunciation: "To a new world of gods and monsters!"  Dwight and Harry and Betty all laugh. 
BETTY These old movies are such a hoot. They thought they were being scary, but they're just funny. 
CLAY (defensively) Maybe it's supposed to be funny. 
BETTY Funny is funny and scary is scary. You don't mix them. 
Suddenly the tinny tv soundtrack is drowned out by the voice of Elvis Presley.  Kid Saylor bends over the jukebox, wagging his denim butt and tapping a high-top sneaker. 
CLAY Hey!  Some of us are watching a movie! 
SAYLOR Go ahead.  Free country. 
Clay jumps from his stool.  Saylor sees him coming, steps aside. 
SAYLOR You want me to turn it down? 
Clay slams the heel of his hand against Saylor's chest.  The boy staggers backward.  Clay grabs the corner of the jukebox and jerks it from the wall; the needle scratches across the song.  Saylor holds up both hands in a nervous surrender. 
SAYLOR Hey, I didn't know.  It's your favorite movie.  Sorry, okay? 
Clay returns to the bar and uprights the stool.  Saylor escorts his girl to the door. 
HARRY I'm next door if you need me. 
He gives Clay one last look and goes out to the breezeway and his apartment. 
CLAY You know what?  I think you guys are all jealous. 
BETTY (laughs) What's to be jealous of? 
CLAY I've gotten to know someone who's famous. 
BETTY Not so famous any of us have ever heard of him. 
CLAY If he were that famous, he probably wouldn't give me the time of day. This way, he's like my famous person. (laughs at himself) Yeah, my own personal famous person.  Who treats me like I'm somebody worth talking to. 
Clay leans down to plug in the jukebox. 
CLAY You want to go for a swim? 
She snaps her mouth open and imitates the Bride's furious cat hiss. 
CLAY What's that mean? 
BETTY It means it's too cold to go swimming.  And I don't mean the water. 
CLAY I wasn't going to try anything. 
BETTY Yeah, and I'm never going to smoke another cigarette. 
He patiently waits by the door while Betty turns out the lights.  She walks briskly through the glow of the jukebox, waving Clay outside with her hand. 
EXT. HARRY'S BEACHCOMBER - NIGHT 
Betty pulls the door shut and bends over to lock it.  Clay catches a glimpse of skin in the side slit of her shirttail. 
CLAY Let's go for a walk at least.  Walk and talk.  I really feel like talking tonight. 
Betty's eyes blink in mock surprise. 
CLAY This old guy -- he's the kind of person I expected to meet when I moved out here.  Someone who's done things with his life. 
BETTY Do you realize you're more interested in this old goober than you ever were in me? 
CLAY It's different.  He's a man.  And by the way you have no business calling him a homo. 
BETTY It never crossed your mind? 
CLAY He's an artist.  Anyway, he's too old to think about sex. 
BETTY All the old men I know think about nothing but sex. 
She opens the door of her Chevy.  Clay grabs it with both hands to keep her from getting in. 
CLAY C'mon.  What's eating you tonight? 
Betty hesitates, then looks him sharply in the eye. 
BETTY You picked up that girl right in front of me. 
CLAY Hey, no strings, right?  That's what you always said.  Just good pals who have the hots for each other. 
BETTY It still hurt.  A lot. 
CLAY I didn't mean to... 
BETTY No, I'm actually kind of glad it happened.  It made me wonder what the hell I was doing with my life. Letting you pull me into bed whenever the spirit moved you. 
CLAY You liked it too. 
BETTY Sure.  I loved it. 
CLAY If you enjoy it, you should do it. 
BETTY You know, I just can't do that anymore.  I still have time to get things right.  Get married again -- 
CLAY You mean us? 
Betty bursts out laughing. 
BETTY The look on your face!  You're not marriage material.  You're not even boyfriend material.  You're a kid. A big, fun, slightly irresponsible kid. 
CLAY I'm not a kid. 
BETTY What are you then?  What will you be ten years from now?  Still cutting lawns?  Still banging horny divorcees in your trailer? 
Elsa stares at the beautiful corpse in the mirror.  She snaps her head left, right, up, down, startled by the sight of herself, electrocuted into frightened, spastic jerks. 
ELSA LANCHESTER Oh, James. 
As Whale observes his star we see her spasms through his eyes -- as a series of dissonant, line-jumping close-ups. 
ELSA LANCHESTER And you said there'd be some of me left.  Nobody's going to know me in this getup. 
WHALE Nonsense, my dear.  You look extraordinary. (to an assistant) Today's script.  Quick.  And a pencil. 
Whale scans the page of shooting script, the margin marked in pencil: CU, MS, MLS.  Whale pencils in a bracket and scribbles: CU a,b,c,d---MOS. 
WHALE Jack, I want to get on this right away.  Sorry, Boris, we won't get to you until this afternoon. 
BORIS KARLOFF I 'ish you 'old 'e 'ooner. 
The assistant removes his mouthpiece. 
BORIS KARLOFF I could have spent the morning tending to my roses. 
INT. SOUNDSTAGE - DAY 
The interior of Stage C is completely filled by the laboratory set.  Electricians adjust the lights on the wooden tower beside the Bride's table.  COLIN CLIVE (Dr. Frankenstein) and ERNEST THESIGER (Dr. Pretorius) sit off to the side, in full makeup and costume.  Clive mumbles earnestly over his script.  Thesiger pinches his face over the needle he dips in and out of an embroidery ring. 
Whale comes on the set with Elsa on his arm.  She walks regally beside him, the train of her long white robe thrown over one arm.  There's a wolf whistle from overhead, and applause, causing Elsa to curtsy to her admirers.  Thesiger takes her hand, leans back to study her. 
ERNEST THESIGER My God.  Is the audience to presume that Colin and I have done her hair?  I thought we were mad scientists, not hairdressers. 
ELSA LANCHESTER Only a mad scientist could do this to a woman. 
ERNEST THESIGER Oh no, my dear.  You look absolutely amazing.  There's no way I can compete with you.  The scene is yours. 
ELSA LANCHESTER In the sequel, James, two lady scientists should make a monster. And our monster would be Gary Cooper. 
ERNEST THESIGER I would've thought Mr. Leslie Howard would be more your line. 
ELSA LANCHESTER More your line. 
ERNEST THESIGER My line nowadays runs to Rin Tin Tin.  Dogs are so much more dependable than men. 
WHALE Colin?  Please.  It's time. (softly, to Thesiger) How is he today? 
ERNEST THESIGER Stiff as a board. (calls out) Yes, Colin.  Come see what they've done to our Elsa. 
Clive walks over, glumly. 
COLIN CLIVE I'm not at my best today, Jimmy. A touch of flu, you know. 
Whale sees through the excuse, rests an arm on Clive's shoulder. 
WHALE Relax, my boy.  You could do this scene in your sleep. 
Clive grits his teeth and nods.  Whale positions them in front of the upended table, Clive and Thesiger holding Elsa's robe out by the hems.  The shadow of the sound boom passes back and forth while they rehearse. 
ERNEST THESIGER I gather we not only did her hair but dressed her.  What a couple of queens we are, Colin. 
Elsa giggles.  Clive looks distraught -- which brings some life to his stiffness.  Whale sees this, decides to tune it higher. 
WHALE Yes, a couple of flaming queens. And Pretorius is a little in love with Dr. Frankenstein, you know. 
Clive's distress reads clearly now.  He is twitchy and alive. 
WHALE Yes.  I think it's coming together. Shall we have a go? 
He sits in the canvas director's chair, nods to the assistant director. 
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR Quiet on the set! 
The warning bell rings. 
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR Lights! 
The lights sizzle and blaze. 
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR Sound! 
SOUND MAN Okay for sound. 
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR Camera! 
A young man with a clapboard steps in front of the camera. 
CAMERA ASSISTANT Scene two-fifteen.  Take one. 
Clay prunes the roses on the front lawn.  Hanna appears, frowning. 
CLAY Something I can do for you? 
HANNA The Master wants to know if you are free for lunch.  I tell him you will be having other plans, but he insists I ask. 
CLAY Got a lawn this afternoon, but I'm free until then. 
HANNA Expect nothing fancy. 
Hanna goes inside.  Clay rolls the mower down the path. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 
Clay knocks on the bottom of the Dutch door as he lifts the latch and walks in.  He is wearing a fresh madras shirt. 
HANNA The Master is dressing.  I am to offer you a drink.  There is whiskey and there is iced tea. 
CLAY Tea is fine. 
He sits at the kitchen table. 
HANNA No.  You are a guest now.  You go in the living room. 
CLAY That's okay, Hanna.  I'm more comfortable in here.  It is Hanna, isn't it? 
She eyes him suspiciously, shrugs, pours a glass of tea. Clay notices a Bible on the counter. 
CLAY How long you worked for Mr. Whale? 
HANNA Long enough.  Fifteen years. 
CLAY I bet you've seen a lot of famous people come and go?  Movie stars? 
HANNA No.  We live simply, Mr. Jimmy and I.  People come to play bridge. And now and then, young men to swim.  You have people, Boone? 
CLAY You mean family?  All in Joplin, Missouri. 
HANNA Your wife? 
CLAY I'm not married. 
HANNA Why? 
CLAY Oh, I don't know.  Because no girl in her right mind will have me? 
HANNA A man who is not married has nothing.  He is a man of trouble. You need a woman. 
CLAY You proposing what I think you're proposing?  Don't you think I'm a little young for you? 
Hanna twists her head around with such an indignant look that Clay bursts out laughing.  She realizes that she is being teased. 
HANNA Men.  Always pulling legs. Everything is comedy. (mimics an English accent) "How very amusing.  How marvelously droll." 
Hanna stares at Clay until his smile fades.  She resumes her chopping in silence. 
CLAY You ever been married, Hanna? 
HANNA Of course.  I am married still. 
CLAY Yeah?  What's your husband do? 
HANNA He is dead now, twenty years. 
CLAY Then you're as single as I am. 
HANNA No.  I have children, grandchildren too.  I visit when I can.  But now that Mr. Jimmy cannot be left very long, I do not get away much. (sighs) Poor Mr. Jimmy.  There is much good in him, but he will suffer the fires of hell.  Very sad. 
CLAY You're sure of that? 
HANNA This is what the priests tell me. His sins of the flesh will keep him from heaven. 
CLAY Sins of the flesh?  Everybody has those. 
HANNA No.  His is the worse. (worse) The unspeakable.  The deed no man can name without shame? 
She loses patience with Clay's blank look. 
HANNA What is the good English?  All I know is bugger.  He is a bugger. Men who bugger each other. 
CLAY A homo? 
HANNA Yes!  You know? 
WHALE Did anyone laugh? 
CLAY (covering) No. 
WHALE Pity.  People are so earnest nowadays. 
CLAY Why?  Was it supposed to be funny? 
WHALE Of course.  I had to make it interesting for myself, you see.  A comedy about death.  The trick is not to ruin it for anyone who isn't in on the joke. (a sip of wine) But the Monster never receives any of my gibes.  He is noble.  Noble and misunderstood. 
Whale gazes pointedly at Clay, who eats with his elbows on the table, quickly bolting the hot omelette. 
WHALE In Korea, Mr. Boone? 
Clay looks up. 
WHALE Did you kill anyone? 
CLAY I don't like to talk about that. 
WHALE It's nothing to be ashamed of, in the service of one's country. That's something to be proud of. 
CLAY Proud?  Any jerk with a gun can kill someone. 
WHALE Quite true.  Hand-to-hand combat is the true test.  Did you ever slay anyone hand-to-hand? 
CLAY (defensive) No.  I could have, though. 
WHALE Yes, I believe you could. (a sip of wine) How free is your schedule this afternoon? 
CLAY Full up.  I got the hedges to do here, then another lawn out by La Cienega. 
WHALE What is we say phooey to the hedges?  Could you spare an hour after lunch?  To sit for me? 
CLAY Can't today. 
WHALE I'll pay our going rate.  Plus what you'd get if you did the hedges. 
CLAY Sorry.  I don't feel like sitting still today. 
WHALE All righty.  I understand. 
Whale tilts a scrutinizing eye at Clay. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - PANTRY - DAY (LATER) 
Hanna carries the dirty dishes back to the kitchen. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY 
Clay starts to bite the tip off a cigar. 
WHALE Use this. 
Whale passes him a gold penknife. 
WHALE Just a trim.  And mine while you're at it.  Fingers are a bit stiff today. 
CLAY You ever been married, Mr. Whale? 
WHALE No.  At least not in the legal sense. 
Clay hands a clipped cigar back to Whale. 
CLAY So you had a wife? 
WHALE Or a husband.  Depending on which of us you asked.  My friend David. He lived here for many years. 
The other cigar crunches faintly between Clay's fingers. 
WHALE Does that surprise you? 
CLAY No, I -- you're a homosexual. 
WHALE Oh dear.  If one must have a clinical name. 
CLAY I'm not, you know. 
WHALE I never thought you were. 
CLAY You don't think of me that way, do you? 
WHALE What way might that be? 
CLAY What happened? 
WHALE The fucking studio butchered it. It was 1937, Hitler's armies were already massing -- and still the New York bankers stood in line to curry his favor.  Anything to avoid losing the German market.  They cut away the guts and brought in another director to add slapstick. The picture laid an egg, a great expensive bomb.  For which I was blamed. 
A shadow passes over Whale's eyes.  He presses two fingers against his temple. 
WHALE After that, I went out of fashion. I was no longer able to command the best projects, so I walked away.  Why should I spend my time working in such a dreadful business? 
CLAY Do you miss it? 
WHALE (dismissive) It's so far in the past now.  Over fifteen years -- 
Whale stops himself.  He smiles gently at Clay. 
WHALE Making movies was the most wonderful thing in the world. Working with friends. Entertaining people.  Yes, I suppose I miss it.  More so now that -- 
Whale reaches into his pocket, takes out the bottle of Luminal. 
WHALE I think we all want to feel we've left our mark on the world.  Yes. I wish I had done more work. 
CLAY You've done a helluva lot more than most people. 
WHALE Better work. 
Whale moves across the room to the screen door. 
WHALE But I chose freedom.  David was still in the thick of it, his life full of anxiety and studio intrigue.  I didn't fancy spending my golden years as merely "the friend."  The dirty little secret of a nervous producer. 
CLAY How long were you...? 
WHALE Twenty years.  Too long.  We were like a play whose run outlasted the cast's ability to keep it fresh. So I finally decided to close down the show. 
Whale places a pill on his tongue and swallows.  He fixes Clay with a pinched smile. 
WHALE When all fetters are loosened, a certain hedonism creeps in, don't you think?  There was a period when this house was overrun with young men.  Some even posed for me. Right where you're sitting now. 
Clay sits uncomfortably in his chair.  His face flushes. 
WHALE Of course, they weren't nearly as bashful.  No, this room was once filled with bare buttocks.  And pricks.  Hard, arrogant pricks -- 
CLAY Cut it out! 
Clay explodes out of his chair, knocking over a small side table. 
CLAY Fuck it.  I can't do this anymore. 
He looms over Whale, whose breathing starts to quicken. 
CLAY Isn't it enough you told me you're a fairy?  Do you have to rub my nose in it? 
WHALE I assure you, Mr. Boone, I meant no -- 
CLAY From now on, Mr. Whale, I cut your grass and that's it.  Understand? 
Before Whale can respond Clay storms out, nearly ripping the screen door off its hinges.  Whale sits on the daybed, takes a few quick breaths.  Suddenly the air is filled with the sounds of people cavorting in the pool. 
Whale looks up, sees a young man standing outside the screen door.  It is now dark outside. 
YOUNG MAN Come on, Jimmy.  Watch me dive. 
Whale offers a melancholy smile. 
WHALE I think I'll just rest for a moment. 
The man shrugs, disappears into the shadows.  We move across the room and through the door... 
EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Whale sits in a director's chair, a martini in one hand, a cigar in the other, a harmless old uncle watching young men swagger and splash in the pool. 
WHALE I think we're ready to go. 
He glances over, sees Clay in plaid bathing trunks, sitting apart from the others.  He is puffing on a Camel. 
WHALE You're up, Mr. Boone. 
Clay ignores him.  Whale puts down his martini and cigar, picks up a Polaroid camera.  He moves over to clay. 
WHALE The extras are in their places. Now we need the star.  Wouldn't you like to get in the pool? 
CLAY You first. 
WHALE Oh no.  I never swim. 
HANNA A visitor. 
Whale turns.  His face registers surprise when he sees Clay. 
WHALE Thank you, Hanna.  That will be all. 
Hanna retreats toward the kitchen.  Clay steps tentatively into the room. 
WHALE Mr. Boone.  You're not due to cut the lawn until Wednesday. 
CLAY I'd like to sit for you again.  But only if you ease up on the locker room talk.  Okay? 
Whale holds up two fingers, affects an American accent. 
WHALE Scout's honor. 
Clay smiles. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - STUDIO - DAY 
Whale and Boone are back in their familiar positions.  An empty glass of beer sits on the floor next to Clay. 
WHALE I'm curious, Mr. Boone.  What convinced you to come back? 
CLAY I don't know.  I guess I like your stories. 
WHALE Everybody has stories to tell. 
CLAY Not me. 
WHALE What about your stint in Korea? I'm sure it was full of dramatic episodes. 
CLAY I told you.  I don't like to talk about that. 
Whale nods, sensing that he's touched a sore spot. 
WHALE And the fear you showed at our last session?  How did you overcome that? 
CLAY Not fear.  More like disgust. 
WHALE Same difference, Mr. Boone. Disgust, fear of the unknown -- all part of the great gulf that stands between us.  Am I right in assuming that you've had little experience with men of my persuasion? 
CLAY There's no people like you in my crowd. 
WHALE No teammates in football?  No comrades in Korea? 
CLAY You must think the whole world is queer.  Well it's not.  War sure isn't. 
WHALE Oh, there may not be atheists in the foxholes, but there are occasionally lovers. 
CLAY You're talking through your hat now. 
WHALE Not at all.  I was in the foxholes myself. 
CLAY You were a soldier? 
WHALE I was an officer. 
Clay breaks his pose to turn and look at Whale. 
CLAY This was World War I? 
WHALE No, my dear.  The Crimean War. What do you think?  The Great War. You had a Good War, while we had -- 
Whale clears his throat, bored by his standard line. 
WHALE -- a war without end.  There were trenches when I arrived, and trenches when I left, two years later.  Just like in the movies. Only the movies never get the stench of them.  The world reduced to mud and sandbags and a narrow strip of rainy sky. (a dry snort) But we were discussing something else.  Oh yes.  Love in the trenches. 
Now he's talking only to himself. 
WHALE Barnett.  Was that his name? Leonard Barnett.  He came to the front straight from Harrow.  And he looked up to me.  Unlike the others, he didn't care that I was a workingman impersonating his betters.  How strange, to be admired so blindly.  I suppose he loved me.  But chastely, like a schoolboy. 
CLAY Something happened to him? 
Whale looks up at Clay, stares at him. 
WHALE I remember one morning in particular.  A morning when the sun came out. 
EXT. TRENCHES - DAY (1917) 
LEONARD BARNETT, 19, boyish and handsome, peers into a periscope.  Whale stands beside him, pointing out landmarks on the bleak landscape. 
WHALE (V.O.) Odd, how even there one could have days when the weather was enough to make one happy.  He and I were standing on the fire step and I showed him the sights of no-man's land, through the periscope.  It was beautiful.  The barbed wire was reddish gold, the water in the shell holes green with algae, the sky a clear quattrocento blue.  And I stood shoulder to shoulder with a tall apple-cheeked boy who loved and trusted me. 
Clay smiles anxiously as the call connects. 
CLAY Mom?  Yeah, it's me. 
Clay pauses as his mother shoots questions at him. 
CLAY No, I'm not in jail...I don't want any money, no... (louder, to be heard) Look, is Sis there?  I want to tell her about this movie person I met out here.  She'll get a kick out of it. 
We hear the phrase: "She's out, Clay."  Clay closes his eyes as his mother rambles on. 
CLAY No, I still...I'd give you my phone number if I had a phone -- 
Clay tries to stay calm as his mother berates him for not staying in touch. 
CLAY How's the old man? 
Before Clay can protest we hear: "Hold on."  Clay glances out at couples strolling up the promenade.  An operator interrupts, says: "One dollar for the next three minutes." Clay deposits two quarters before his mother returns. "He's busy, Clay." 
CLAY Right. 
The operator comes on again, asking for fifty more cents. Clay stares at the quarters in his hand. 
CLAY Time's up.  I better go. 
Clay listens as his mother prattles on, until the connection is broken and the phone goes dead.  Clay steps out of the booth, takes a deep breath of ocean air. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY 
Whale and Hanna go through the closet together. 
HANNA Mr. Boone.  He is an interesting friend. 
WHALE I'd hardly call our yardman a friend. 
HANNA No.  But someone you can talk to. 
Whale stops, turns to Hanna. 
WHALE Do you miss having someone to talk to, Hanna? 
HANNA I have my family.  Also our Lord Jesus Christ. 
WHALE Of course.  How is the old boy these days? 
The naughty remark is met with a solemn stare.  Whale reaches up, chooses a lightweight blue suit. 
WHALE It needs a hat.  There was a wide-brimmed cream fedora... 
HANNA It must be up in your old room.  I will look. 
The phone rings.  Hanna hurries to answer it. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - MAIN HALL - DAY 
Hanna speaks softly in Hungarian.  Whale points upstairs to let her know he will look for the hat himself. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 
Whale opens the closet door and takes down a stack of hatboxes from the overhead shelf.  He opens the first box, takes out a rubbery wad of heavy fabric with two round windows like eyes.  It's a gas mask.  We CUT TO: 
INT. TRENCHES - NIGHT (1917) 
The night sky explodes with light and smoke.  Whale moves calmly through the chaos, trying to maintain a modicum of order among the troops. 
WHALE Gas masks on.  Gas masks on. 
At the end of the line, young Barnett is struggling with his straps.  Mustard gas is starting to stream into the trench. 
BARNETT Don't mind me, Lieutenant.  Save yourself. 
Whale slips the mask over Barnett's face, fastens it.  He slides his own mask into position moments before the trench is obliterated by the yellowish smoke.  We CUT TO: 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 
Hanna stands in the door with a forlorn frown. 
HANNA Oh, Mr. Jimmy.  You make a mess of it.  Here. 
Hanna lifts the lid of an unopened box to show him the missing fedora. 
HANNA (stacking boxes) That is my daughter.  She say she and her husband are coming to town this afternoon.  I am sorry, Mr. Jimmy.  I will make it short. 
WHALE I'll be out this afternoon, remember?  Your family can visit as long as they like. 
WHALE Sit? 
PRINCESS MARGARET I've changed my hair, you see. Since our last session.  Those old snaps look rather dowdy now. 
Whale realizes she's mistaken him for someone else.  He tugs his sunglasses down his nose so she can see his eyes. 
PRINCESS MARGARET Oh dear.  Have I made a blunder? 
WHALE Ma'am, the pleasure is all mine.  James Whale. 
PRINCESS MARGARET (laughs) I am such a goose.  I mistook you for Cecil Beaton.  It's the hat. You're wearing one of Cecil's hats, you know. 
Whale attempts to chuckle while he fights a feeling of humiliation.  He turns to Cukor for help. 
WHALE Hello, George.  James Whale.  David Lewis's friend.  I once made pictures myself, Ma'am. 
GEORGE CUKOR Yes.  Of course.  One can't throw a rock in this town without hitting one of us old movie directors. 
Whale feels the sting.  He turns to Clay. 
WHALE Ma'am, may I present Mr. Clayton Boone? 
Clay steps forward to shake hands. 
WHALE My gardener, who insisted I bring him today.  He so wanted to meet royalty. 
Cukor's face goes blank with indignation. 
CLAY Pleased to meet you. 
PRINCESS MARGARET Quite.  I adore gardens. 
Whale narrows his eyes at Cukor and sharpens his smile. 
WHALE He's never met a princess.  Only queens. 
Cukor puffs out his chest, quivers a bulbous lower lip at Whale. 
WHALE George, Ma'am, this has been an honor.  An occasion to remember for the rest of my days. 
He leads Clay away and an American couple promptly crowd in to take their place.  Striding through the garden, Whale is obviously pleased with himself. 
CLAY What was that about? 
WHALE Nothing of importance.  Just two old men slapping each other with lilies.  Shall we have a drink? 
Whale leads Clay to a tented bar.  Across the way, David Lewis has come through the gate with a WOMAN on his arm. People look discreetly, not at David but at the woman, lightly veiled in a scarf and sunglasses. 
CLAY Who's that? 
WHALE David.  The friend I thought was in New York. 
CLAY No.  The girl. 
WHALE Girl?  Oh.  Elizabeth Taylor. 
Clay watches in amazement as ELIZABETH TAYLOR waves to someone and pipes out a happy hello.  She hurriedly unties her scarf, thrusts it at David and runs off on tiptoes to embrace a woman. 
CLAY Is that really her? 
WHALE David produced her last picture. 
David glances around while he slips the scarf into a coat pocket.  He sees Whale looking at him.  He puts on a tight smile and strolls across the patio. 
DAVID What are you doing here? 
WHALE Just what I was about to ask you. I thought you were in New York. 
DAVID I was, until last night.  Publicity asked me to fly Miss Taylor in for today's reception. 
The waiter arrives with their drinks.  Only when Clay takes his glass of beer does David see that Whale is not alone. 
DAVID David Lewis. 
CLAY Clay Boone. 
WHALE Our yardman.  Who was kind enough to serve as my escort to George's little do. 
David freezes.  Whale lifts his martini glass at Clay and takes a sip. 
DAVID Should you be drinking in your condition? 
WHALE Oh, David, stop being a nanny. 
WHALE What do you think? 
Barnett smiles his approval. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Clay opens the bathroom door, calls out. 
CLAY Mr. Whale? 
No answer.  He goes to the top of the stairs and calls out. 
CLAY Where's those clothes you promised? 
Again, nothing.  Rain ticks against the windows.  Clay goes down the stairs. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Whale fiddles with the knot of his tie. 
WHALE He trusts me, you know. 
Barnett sits on the edge of the bed now.  He smiles, a bit sadly. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT 
There's glow coming from the bedroom, and the sound of Whale's voice. 
CLAY Mr. Whale?  Jimmy? 
Clay steps slowly toward the door, pushes it open.  He peers in. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Whale pulls on a blazer. 
CLAY Mr. Whale? 
Whale jumps.  He slaps a hand over his chest, twists around, sees Clay. 
WHALE Oh, of course.  Clayton.  You finished your shower already? 
CLAY Ten minutes ago.  Didn't you hear me calling? 
WHALE I'm afraid not.  Terribly sorry. (stands) I believe I promised you some clothes. 
Whale crosses to the closet.  Barnett is nowhere to be seen. 
WHALE You're much wider than I am.  You won't want to attempt to get into my pants. 
CLAY No.  Definitely not. 
Clay chuckles.  Whale smiles. 
WHALE Very good, Clayton. 
He takes a robe from a hook on the closet door.  Clay tries it on but it won't close over the towel. 
WHALE I know. 
Whale opens a drawer, takes out a crewneck sweater. 
WHALE Absolutely swims on me, but should take care of your upper half. 
Clay pulls the sweater over his head. 
WHALE That only leaves the rest. 
CLAY You don't have any baggy shorts? Pajama bottoms? 
WHALE Sorry.  My pajamas are tailored. Would it be too distressing to continue with the towel?  No more immodest than a kilt, you know. 
CLAY Do I have any other choice? 
WHALE Very sporting of you, Clayton. 
Clay notices a framed drawing on the desk. 
CLAY Is that --? 
WHALE (nods) The only memento I ever kept.  My original sketch for the Monster. 
He hands the sketch to Clay, who stares down at the famous flat head, hooded eyes, bolted neck of the Monster. 
Clay sits in a straight-backed chair, smoking a cigarette and sipping his Scotch.  Whale sketches from a wing chair across the room. 
CLAY Storm's getting worse. 
WHALE "A perfect night for mystery and horror.  The air itself is filled with monsters." 
CLAY That's from your movie, right? "The only monsters are here." 
WHALE I don't remember that one. 
CLAY James Whale.  This afternoon at the party. 
Whale looks up. 
CLAY I said it must be weird seeing your monsters again, and you said, "The only monsters are here."  I was wondering which here you meant. 
WHALE I don't recall.  Memories of the war, perhaps. 
CLAY But that was so long ago.  It can't still bother you. 
WHALE Oh, but it does.  Especially in light of the journey I'm about to make. 
CLAY You're planning a trip? 
Whale's gaze remains dreamy and preoccupied as SOUNDS of battle fill the room.  A relentless rat-a-tat of gunfire. The whistling of bombs.  The tortured wailing of dying men. Whale stands, moves over to the window. 
WHALE Barnett.  Barnett on the wire. 
CLAY Your friend? 
Whale gazes out at the storm.  From his POV, we see a scarred and barren landscape, illuminated by occasional flashes of lightning. 
WHALE He caught his one night coming back from the reconnoiter.  I wouldn't take him out, but McGill did.  Just to give the lad a taste.  They were nearly home when a Maxim gun opened fire. 
EXT. TRENCHES - NIGHT (1917) 
We race along the open trench with Whale, the darkened sky intermittently punctured by bursts of gunfire.  He reaches the periscope, pulls an enlisted man off it.  From his POV, we see Barnett and McGill dodging bullets as they attempt to make their way back. 
WHALE (through clenched teeth) Come on.  Come on. 
McGill leaps over the barbed wire of a forward trench. Barnett follows.  Just as his feet leave the ground his chest is riddled by a fresh round of gunfire.  Whale's eyes snap closed, trying to obliterate what they've just seen. 
WHALE (V.O.) Barnett's body fell in wire as thick as briers.  It was hanging there the next morning, a hundred yards from the line, too far out for anyone to fetch it. 
INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Whale stares out impassively. 
WHALE We saw him at morning stand-to and evening stand-to.  "Good morning, Barnett," we'd say each day. "How's ole Barnett looking this morning?"  "Seems a little peaky. Looks a little plumper."  His wounds faced the other way and his hat shielded his eyes, so one could imagine he was napping on bedsprings.  He hung there until we were relieved.  We introduced him to the new unit before we marched out, speaking highly of his companionship. 
Clay's eyes are filled with pity. 
WHALE Oh, but we were a witty lot. Laughing at our dead.  Telling ourselves it was our death too. But with each man who died, I thought, "Better you than me, poor sod." (bitterly) A whole generation was wiped out by that war.  Millions and millions of young men. 
Whale begins to hum, a tune we have heard before: 
WHALE Oh death where is thy sting-a-ling? Grave where thy victory? 
CLAY You survived it.  It can't hurt you now.  It's no good to dig it up. 
WHALE Oh no, my friend.  It's digging itself up.  There is nothing in the here and now to take my mind off it.  All my diversions have abandoned me.  Parties.  Reading. Painting.  Work.  Love.  All gone to me now. 
Whale remains perfectly still, staring out the window.  Clay deliberates a moment, then puts down his drink next to the decanter of Scotch.  He stands and yanks the neck of the sweater over his face, then tosses it on the sofa.  Whale blinks at the reflection in the glass, not yet understanding. 
CLAY You wanted to draw me like a Greek statue.  All right, then. 
Clay pulls at the knot, lets go of the towel.  He defiantly parks his hands on his hips. 
CLAY There.  Not so bad. 
Whale continues to stare at the reflection, his back to Clay, his eyes wide and expressionless.  He turns slowly, fully expecting the vision to evaporate.  When he sees that Clay is truly naked he mutters softly under his breath. 
WHALE So it is going to happen after all. 
CLAY What'd you say? 
Whale doesn't respond.  Finally he opens his mouth to take a breath. 
WHALE No.  It won't do. 
CLAY What won't do? 
WHALE You are much too human. 
WHALE Oh yes.  I have you now. 
A strap breaks.  Clay rips the mask off. 
CLAY Get the fuck off! 
Whale's hand squeezes between Clay's legs. 
WHALE What will you do to get yourself back? 
Clay jabs with his elbow, flipping Whale on his back.  His body straddles Whale's and pins him, face to face. 
CLAY I'm not that way.  Get it through your fucking head.  I don't want to mess with you. 
WHALE Oh, but you feel good, Clayton. 
His hands clasp Clay's hips.  Clay's fist opens as it comes down; he slaps Whale across the face. 
WHALE That didn't even sting.  You're not such a real man after all.  Are you? 
Clay whacks Whale's face again. 
WHALE Wait until I tell my friends I had you naked in my arms.  Won't they be surprised? 
CLAY I haven't done a damn thing with you! 
WHALE Oh, but you have.  You undressed for me.  I kissed you.  I even touched your prick.  How will you be able to live with yourself? 
Clay snatches Whale's wrist before it can touch his crotch. With his other hand he picks up the heavy crystal decanter. 
CLAY What the hell do you want from me?! 
Whale tilts his face up for another blow. 
WHALE I want you to kill me. 
Clay freezes.  He stares down at the old man with white hair and wild eyes lying beneath him. 
WHALE Break my neck.  Or strangle me.  It would be oh so easy to wrap your hands around my neck and choke the life out of me.  Please, Clayton. We've come this far. 
CLAY You're crazy. 
Whale's eyes glimmer in the sporadic bursts of lightning. 
WHALE Exactly, I'm losing my mind. Every day, another piece goes. Soon there will be nothing left. Look at the sketch I made of you. 
Clay turns to the sketch pad, which lies on the floor next to Whale.  The page is filled with nothing but doodles and scrawls. 
CLAY Look, if you want to die do it yourself! 
WHALE No, I don't want to die alone.  But to be killed by you -- that would make death bearable.  They say you never see the one with your name on it.  But I want to see death coming at me.  I want it to be sharp and hard, with a human face.  Your face.  Think, Clayton.  You'd be my second Monster.  Almost as famous as the first.  It would be the great adventure you've yearned for. A war story for both of us to share. 
Clay's breathing comes in quick, panicked bursts. 
WHALE You'd be fully exonerated, I've taken care of that.  I wrote a note, I'll even leave you the house, the car... 
Clay's body starts to tremble. 
WHALE Do it now, Clayton.  Make me invisible. 
Clay lets out a howl -- his shoulders heave and shake. 
CLAY I am not your monster. 
He climbs off Whale, crawls away, his body collapsing in wracking, anguished sobs.  Whale opens his eyes, gazes at Clay. 
WHALE What have I done? (sits up) Oh, selfish, selfish fool.  I have lost my mind. 
He forces himself to his feet. 
WHALE What was I thinking? 
Whale picks up the towel and moves over to Clay. 
WHALE You're a softhearted bloke.  A bloody pussycat. 
Whale places the towel around Clay's shoulders. 
WHALE My deepest apologies.  Can you ever forgive me? 
Clay doesn't look up. 
WHALE I suppose not. (a bone-crushing sigh) Good God, I am tired.  I really must go to bed. 
