THE GRAPES OF WRATH 
"THE GRAPES OF WRATH" 
Screenplay 
by 
Nunnally Johnson 
Based on the Novel "The Grapes Of Wrath" 
By 
John Steinbeck 
AN OKLAHOMA PAVED HIGHWAY in daylight. At some distance, hoofing down the highway, comes Tom Joad. He wears a new stiff suit of clothes, ill-fitting, and a stiff new cap, which he gradually manages to break down into something comfortable. He comes down the left side of the road, the better to watch the cars that pass him. As he approaches, the scene changes to a roadside short-order RESTAURANT on the right side of the road. From it comes the sound of a phonograph playing a 1939 popular song. In front of the eatery is a huge Diesel truck labeled: OKLAHOMA CITY TRANSPORT COMPANY. The driver, a heavy man with army breeches and high- laced boots, comes out of the restaurant, the screen door slamming behind him. He is chewing on a toothpick. A waitress appears at the door, behind the screen. 
WAITRESS When you be back? 
DRIVER Couple a weeks. Don't do nothin' you wouldn't want me to hear about! 
We see him climbing into the cab of the truck from the right side. Getting behind the wheel, he is releasing the handbrake when Tom appears at the driver's seat window. 
TOM How about a lift, mister? 
DRIVER Can't you see that sticker? 
He indicates a "No Riders" sticker on the windshield. 
TOM Sure I see it. But a good guy don't pay no attention to what some heel makes him stick on his truck. 
After a moment of hesitation the driver releases the brake. 
DRIVER Scrunch down on the running board till we get around the bend. 
As Tom scrunches down on the running board the driver throws the truck into gear and it moves. 
The scene dissolves to the CAB OF THE TRUCK. It is day, and Tom is seated beside the driver, who is surreptitiously eyeing him, trying to confirm some suspicion--an inspection which Tom ignores at first. 
DRIVER Goin' far? 
TOM (shaking his head) Just a few miles. I'd a walked her if my dogs wasn't pooped out. 
DRIVER Lookin' for a job? 
TOM No, my old man got a place, forty acres. He's a sharecropper, but we been there a long time. 
DRIVER (after a curious glance) Oh! 
Cautiously, the driver's eyes drop to Tom's feet. We see TOM'S SHOES. They are prison shoes--new, stiff and bulky. 
Curiosity is in the eyes of the DRIVER as they shoot a swift glance at Tom. TOM is looking straight ahead, with the dead- pan look that prisoners get when they are trying to conceal something. The DRIVER'S eyes take in Tom's hands and the stiff coat. 
DRIVER Been doin' a job? 
TOM Yeah. 
DRIVER I seen your hands. You been swinging a pick or a sledge--that shines up your hands. I notice little things like that all the time. (After a pause) Got a trade? 
TOM (evenly) Why don't you get to it, buddy? 
DRIVER (uneasily) Get to what? 
TOM You know what I mean. You been givin' me a goin' over ever since I got in. Whyn't you go on and ask me where I been? 
DRIVER I don't stick my nose in nobody's business. 
TOM Didn't you hear? It was in the papers. 
CASY No, I never. What? 
TOM I been in the penitentiary for four years. (He drinks) 
CASY Excuse me for asking. 
TOM I don't mind any more. I'd do what I done again. I killed a guy at a dance. We was drunk. He got a knife in me and I laid him out with a shovel. Knocked his head plumb to squash. 
CASY And you ain't ashamed? 
TOM (shaking his head) He had a knife in me. That's why they only gave me seven years. Got out in four--parole. 
CASY Ain't you seen your folks since then? 
TOM (putting on his coat) No, but I aim to before sundown. Gettin' kind of excited about it, too. Which way you going? 
CASY (putting on his sneaker) It don't matter. Ever since I lost the sperit it looks like I just as soon go one way as the other. (Rising) I'll go your way. 
They pause at the edge of the shade, squint up at the sky, and then move off. 
The scene dissolves to the SURFACE OF A DIRT ROAD by daylight. Leaves are scuttling across it. The top soil begins to fly up. It is not a hard wind as yet, but it is steady and persistent. Tom's and Casy's feet walk into sight. 
TOM Maybe Ma'll have pork for supper. I ain't had pork but four times in four years--every Christmas. 
CASY I'll be glad to see you pa. Last time I seen him was at a baptizin', an' he had one a the bigges' doses of the Holy Sperit I ever seen. He go to jumpin' over bushes, howlin' like a dog-wolf in moon-time. Fin'ly he picks hisself out a bush big as a piana an' he let out a squawk an' took a run at that bush. Well, sir, he cleared her but he bust his leg snap in two. They was a travellin' dentist there and he set her, an' I give her a prayin' over, but they wasn't no more Holy Sperit in your pa after that. 
TOM (worriedly) Lissen. This wind's fixin't to *do* somepin'! 
CASY Shore it is. It always is, this time a year. 
Tom, holding his cap on his head with his hand, looks up... The TOPS OF THE TREES are bending before the wind. TOM AND CASY continue walking. 
CASY Is it fur? 
TOM (still looking back) Just around that next bend. 
TOM AND CASY are almost being blown along and dust is rising from the road. 
CASY (lifting his voice above the wind) Your granma was a great one, too. The third time she got religion she go it so powerful she knocked down a full-growed deacon with her fist. 
TOM (pointing ahead) That's our place. 
The JOAD CABIN is an ancient, bleak, sway-backed building. There is neither sign of life or habitation about it. 
CASY (looking back) And it ain't any too close, either! We better run! 
A DUST STORM, like a black wall, rises into the sky, moving forward. TOM AND CASY are running, but looking back over their shoulders as the DUST STORM nears. Dust rises from the ground to join and thicken the black wall. 
TOM AND CASY are seen racing down the road to the cabin, the wind whipping up the dust. The two men smack open the door and slam it shut after them. The screen begins to grow dark as the storm sweeps over the land. It becomes black. 
In THE CABIN, it is black too, but the sound is different. In addition to the sound of the wind there is the soft hissing of sand against the house. 
TOM'S VOICE Ma?... Pa?... Ain't nobody here? (After a long silence) Somepin's happened. 
CASY'S VOICE You got a match? 
TOM'S VOICE There was some pieces of candle always on a shelf. 
Presently, after shuffling about, he has found them and lights one. He holds it up, lighting the room. A couple of wooden boxes are on the floor, a few miserable discarded things, and that's all. Tom's eyes are bewildered. 
TOM They're all gone--or dead. 
CASY They never wrote you nothing? 
TOM No. They wasn't people to write. 
THE MAN You know who owns the land--the Shawnee Land and Cattle Company. 
MULEY Who's the Shawnee Land and Cattle Comp'ny? 
THE MAN It ain't nobody. It's a company. 
SON They got a pres'dent, ain't they? They got somebody that knows what a shotgun's for, ain't they? 
THE MAN But it ain't *his* fault, because the *bank* tells him what to do. 
SON (angrily) All right. Where's the bank? 
THE MAN (fretfully) Tulsa. But what's the use of picking on him? He ain't anything but the manager, and half crazy hisself, trying to keep up with his orders from the east! 
MULEY (bewildered) Then who *do* we shoot? 
THE MAN (stepping on the starter) Brother, I don't know. If I did I'd tell you. But I just don't know *who's* to blame! 
MULEY (angrily) Well, I'm right here to tell you, mister, ain't *nobody* going to push me off *my* land! Grampa took up this land seventy years ago. My pa was born here. We was *all* born on it, and some of us got killed on it, and some died on it. And that's what makes it ourn--bein' born on it, and workin' it, and dyin' on it--and not no piece of paper with writin' on it! So just come on and try to push me off! 
The scene dissolves to the BACK ROOM. The sound of the storm is heard again as Tom and Casy watch Muley. 
TOM (angrily) Well? 
MULEY (without emotion) They come. They come and pushed me off. 
We see MULEY at close range. 
MULEY They come with the cats. 
TOM'S VOICE The what? 
MULEY The cats--the caterpillar tractors. 
The scene dissolves to a MONTAGE OF TRACTORS: tractors looming over hillocks, flattening fences, through gullies, their drivers looking like robots, with goggles, dust masks over mouth and nose--one after the other, crossing and recrossing as if to convey the impression that this was an invasion of machine-men from some other world. 
MULEY'S VOICE And for ever' one of 'em ten-fifteen families gets throwed outa their homes--one hundred folks with no place to live but on the road. The Rances, the Perrys, the Peterses, the Joadses--one after another they got throwed out. Half the folks you and me know--throwed right out into the road. The one that got me come a month ago. 
The scene dissolves to MULEY'S FARM. We see the backs of Muley and the two younger men standing shoulder to shoulder watching a lumbering tractor headed straight toward them. It is at some distance. Muley holds a shotgun. His son has a baling hook. The son-in-law has a two-by-four. Behind them is their cabin. Frightened and huddled together are the women and children. The roar of the tractor comes closer. 
MULEY (shouting) You come any closer and I'm gonna blow you right outa that cat! (He lifts his shotgun) 
The TRACTOR continues to lumber along, its driver goggled and black of face where his dust mask doesn't cover. MULEY lifts his shotgun to his shoulder, and aims. 
MULEY I *tol'* you! 
The TRACTOR stops. The driver takes off his goggles and dust mask. Like the others he's a country boy. His face is sullen. Muley is lowering his shotgun. There is a surprise in his face as he recognizes the driver. 
MULEY Why, you're Joe Davis's boy! 
He moves forward, followed by his son and son-in-law in the TRACTOR. Davis is wiping his face as they walk toward him. 
DAVIS I don't like nobody drawin' a bead on me. 
MULEY Then what are you doin' this kind a thing for--against your own people? 
DAVIS For three dollars a day, that's what I'm doin' it for. I got two little kids. I got a wife and my wife's mother. Them people got to eat. Fust and on'y thing I got to think about is my own folks. What happens to other folks is their lookout. 
MULEY But this is *my land*, son. Don't you understand? 
DAVIS (putting his goggles back on) *Used* to be your land. B'longs to the comp'ny now. 
We see THE WOMENFOLKS. A small girl pulls her mother's dress. 
GIRL What's he fixin' to do, ma? 
MA Hush! 
MAN (in car) Muley? (After a pause) He ain't here. 
The car moves on. 
TOM, CASY AND MULEY lie flat, listening to the sound of the car going away. 
TOM Anybody ever 'tol me I'd be hidin' out on my own place...! 
He whistles, as the scene fades out. 
DRIED CORNSTALKS, seen by daylight, fade in. The cornstalks, their roots blown clean and clear of the earth, lie fallen in one direction. This is what has happened to farms that were once rich and green. Then Uncle John's cabin comes into view. It is just after sunup. The air is filled with country sounds--a shrill chorus of birds, a dog barking in the distance. The cabin is of the same general appearance as the Joad cabin but even smaller. Smoke curls from the chimney. 
We see a PLATTER ON A TABLE, inside the cabin. The platter is filled with sidemeat. Over the scene comes Ma Joad's voice. 
MA'S VOICE Lord, make us thankful for what we are about to receive, for His sake. Amen. 
As she speaks, a man's scrawny hand reaches forward and sneaks out a piece of sidemeat. 
Five people are seated around the breakfast table on chairs or boxes. They are Pa, Grampa, Granma, Noah, and Uncle John. Two children, Ruthie and Winfield, stand to the table, because there are no more chairs. Their heads are all bent as Ma, standing with a fork in her hand between the table and the stove, ends the grace. Heads lift and there is a bustle as Ma turns back to the frying pork on the stove and the others truck into their food. Granma points a spiteful finger at Grampa. 
GRANMA I seen you!--You et durin' grace! 
GRAMPA (indignantly) One little ole dab!--one teeny little ole dab! 
RUTHIE AND WINFIELD, though they are shoveling it in, are grinning at Grampa. 
RUTHIE (in a snickering whisper to Winfield) Ain't he messy though! 
GRANMA (viciously) I seen him!--gobblin' away like an ole pig! 
GRAMPA Whyn't you keep your eyes shet durin' grace, you ole... 
NOAH is solemnly studying a handbill. Over his shoulder the HANDBILL can be read: "800 PICKERS WANTED--WORK IN CALIFORNIA" 
We see NOAH AND UNCLE JOHN. 
NOAH (who is a half-wit) What's it say again? 
JOHN Says plenty work in California-- peaches. Eight hundred pickers needed. 
Noah frowns at the print. 
GRAMPA (who has mush on his mouth) Wait'll I get to California! Gonna reach up and pick me an orange whenever I want it! Or grapes. That there's somethin' I ain't *never* had enough of! Gonna get me a whole bunch a grapes off a bush and I'm gonna squash 'em all over my face and just let the juice dreen down offen my chin! 
GRANMA (in a feeble bleat) Puh-raise the Lawd for vittory! 
GRAMPA (expanding) Maybe I get me a whole *washtub* fulla them grapes and jest sit in 'em and scrooge around till they was gone! (Sighing) I shore would like to do that! 
RUTHIE AND WINFIELD are snickering. Ruthie has smeared her face with mush. She pulls Winfield around to see. 
RUTHIE (whispering) Look. I'm Grampa! 
She begins to slobber in mimicry. Winfield snickers. At that instant Ma enters, unobserved, and without a word give Ruthie a fine wallop. Nobody else pays any attention to the slap as Ma, a bucket in her hand, moves on toward the door. We see her now in the BACKYARD, first at the door, then moving toward the well. She stops dead still, her eyes gazing outward. 
TOM is looking at the household goods piled around the yard, to be taken to California. Casy is in the background. Then Tom looks up and see Ma (out of the scene). His face softens. He moves toward her. 
MA (softly--her eyes closed) Thank God. Oh thank God. (In sudden terror as he approaches) Tommy, you didn't *bust* out, didya? You ain't got to hide, have you? 
TOM No, Ma. I'm paroled. I got my papers. 
With a sigh and a smile, and her eyes full of wonder, she feels his arm. Her fingers touch his cheek, as if she were blind. Swelling with emotion, Tom bites his lip to control himself. 
MA I was so scared we was goin' away without you--and we'd never see each other again. 
TOM I'd a found you, Ma. 
CASY, with great politeness, turns his back to the scene and keeps well away from it. 
PA (watching) Better give him a good 'un. He's awful bull-headed. 
Ma is already pouring coffee into a can as GRAMPA is seen. 
GRAMPA (mumbling defiantly) If Muley can scrabble along, I can do it too. (Suddenly sniffing) I smell spareribs. Somebody been eatin' spareribs? How come I ain't got some? 
MA (from the door) Got some saved for you, Grampa. Got 'em warmin' now. Here's a cuppa coffee. 
GRAMPA (taking the cup) Awright, but get me some a them spareribs, too. Get me a whole mess of 'em. I'm hongry. 
He drinks the coffee. Pa and Tom watch him. He notices nothing. He takes another dram of the coffee. 
GRAMPA (amiably) I shore do like spareribs. 
He drinks again. 
The scene dissolves to the TRUCK. It is just after dawn. Pa, Tom, and Noah are lifting Grampa into the truck. He mumbles angrily, but is unconscious of what is happening. 
PA (fretfully) Easy, *easy!* You wanta bust his head wide open? Pull his arms, John. 
GRAMPA (mumbling) Ain't a-goin', thas all... 
PA Put somepin' over him, so he won't git sun-struck. (Looking around) Ever'body set now? (A chorus of responses) Awright, Al, letta go! 
The engine rattles and roars shakily. Grinning with excitement, Pa sits down and pats Grampa clumsily. 
PA You be awright, Grampa. 
The truck starts to move heavily. Casy stands watching it. 
CASY Good-by, an' good luck. 
PA Hey, wait! Hold 'er, Al! (The car stops) Ain't you goin' with us? 
CASY (after a pause) I'd like to. There's somethin' happenin' out there in the wes' an' I'd like to try to learn what it is. If you feel you got the room... 
He stops politely. Pa looks from one face to the other in the truck--a swift, silent canvass--and though no one speaks or gives any other sign, Pa knows that the vote is yes. 
PA (heartily) Come on, get on, plenty room! 
OMNES Sure, come on, Casy, plenty room! 
Quickly he climbs aboard. The truck rattles into motion again. 
PA (excitedly) Here we go! 
TOM (grinning) California, here we come! 
As they all look back the deserted CABIN is seen from the departing truck. 
Now we see the FAMILY IN THE TRUCK, as it snorts and rattles toward the road--a study of facial expressions as the Joad family look back for the last time at their home. Connie and Rosasharn, whispering, giggling, and slappings, are oblivious of the event. Ruthie and Winfield are trembling with excitement. But Tom's and Pa's smiles have disappeared, and all the men are gazing back thoughtfully and soberly, their minds occupied with the solemnity of this great adventure. 
In the FRONT SEAT OF THE TRUCK. Al is driving. Granma is already dozing. Ma looks steadily ahead. 
AL (grinning) Ain't you gonna look back, Ma?--give the ol' place a last look? 
MA (coldly shaking her head) We're goin' to California, ain't we? Awright then, let's *go* to California. 
AL (sobering) That don't sound like you, Ma. You never was like that before. 
MA I never had my house pushed over before. I never had my fambly stuck out on the road. I never had to lose... ever'thing I had in life. 
She continues to stare straight ahead. The TRUCK is lumbering up onto a paved highway. 
The scene dissolves to a MONTAGE: Almost filling the screen is the shield marker of the U.S. Highway 66. Superimposed on it is a montage of jalopies, steaming and rattling and piled high with goods and people, as they pull onto the highway, to indicate as much as possible that this departure of the Joad family is but part of a mass movement of jalopies and families. The signs of towns on U.S. Highway 66 flash past-- CHECOTAH, OKLAHOMA CITY, BETHANY. 
This dissolves to a HIGHWAY. It is late afternoon. The Joad truck pulls of the paved highway and stops. The men leap down quickly from the truck, all but Pa, who lifts Grampa in his arms and then lowers him slowly, gently into Tom's arms. 
GRANMA I tell ya I gotta git out! 
The cop looks startled, puzzled, but Tom shrugs a disclaimer for responsibility in that quarter. 
TOM (mildly) She's kinda ol'-- 
GRANMA (whimpering) I tell ya-- 
COP Okay, okay! 
GRANMA (triumphantly) Puh-raise the Lawd for vittory! 
As Ma helps Granma out the other side, Tom and the cop exchange a glance and snother shrug at the foibles of women and then look studiedly into space. 
The scene dissolves to a MONTAGE: superimposed on the marker of U.S. Highway 66 an assortment of roadside signs flashes by: Bar-B-Q, Joe's Eats, Dr. Pepper, Gas, Coca Cola, This Highway is Patrolled, End of 25 Mile Zone, Lucky Strikes, Used Cars, Nutburger, Motel, Drive-Inn, Free Water, We Fix Flats, etc. 
A HAND-PAINTED SIGN reads: "CAMP 50¢." It is night. We hear the sound of guitar music. In the CAMP GROUND a small wooden house dominates the scene. There are no facilities; the migrants simply pitch makeshift tents and park their jalopies wherever there is a space. It is after supper and a dozen or more men sit on the steps of the house listening to Connie play a road song on a borrowed guitar. The music softens the tired, drawn faces of the men and drives away some of their shyness. In the dark, outside the circle of light from the gasoline lantern on the porch, some of the women and children sit and enjoy the luxury of this relative gaiety. The proprietor sits tipped back in a straight chair on the porch. 
We see the JOAD TENT. Behind their truck, a tarpaulin is stretched over a rope from tree to tree. Granma lies asleep on a quilt, stirring fitfully. Ma sits on the ground at her head, fanning her with a piece of cardboard. Rosasharn lies flat on her back, hands clasped under her head, looking up at the stars. The music comes to them pleasantly. 
ROSASHARN Ma... all this, will it hurt the baby? 
MA Now don't you go gettin' nimsy-mimsy. 
ROSASHARN Sometimes I'm all jumpy inside. 
MA Well, can't nobody get through nine *months* without sorrow. 
ROSASHARN But will it--hurt the baby? 
MA They use' to be a sayin': A chile born outa sorrow'll be a happy chile. An' another: Born outa too much joy'll be a doleful boy. That's the way I always heard it. 
ROSASHARN You don't ever get scairt, do you, Ma? 
MA (thoughtfully) Sometimes. A little. Only it ain't scairt so much. It's just waitin' an' wonderin'. But when sump'n happens that I got to do sump'n-- (simply) --I'll do it. 
ROSASHARN Don't it ever scare you it won't be nice in California like we think? 
MA (quickly) No. No, it don't. I can't do that. I can't let m'self. All I can do is see how soon they gonna wanta eat again. They'd all get upset if I done anymore 'n that. They all depen' on me jus' thinkin' about that. (After a pause) That's my part--that an' keepin' the fambly together. 
As the music ends we see a GROUP ON THE PORCH STEPS. The men murmur approbation of Connie's playing. 
PA (with quiet pride) Thas my son-in-law. 
FIRST MAN Sings real nice. What state y'all from? 
PA Oklahoma. Had us a farm there, share- croppin'. 
TOM Till the tractors druv us out. 
FIRST MAN We from Arkansas. I had me a store there, kind of general notions store, but when the farms went the store went too. (Sighing) Nice a little as you ever saw. I shore did hate to give it up. 
PA (profoundly) Wal, y'cain't tell. I figure when we git out there an' git work an' maybe git us a piece a growin' lan' near water it might not be so bad at that. 
OTHER MEN Thas right... Payin' good wages, I hear... Ever'body got work out there... Can't be no worse... 
As they talk, a SECOND MAN, standing on the edge of the group, begins to grin bitterly. He is much more ragged than the others. 
SECOND MAN You folks must have a pot a money. 
The GROUP turns to look at the Man. 
PA (with dignity) No, we ain't got no money. But they's plenty of us to work, an' we 're all good men. Get good wages out there an' put it all together an' we'll be awright. 
The Man begins to snigger and then to laugh in a high whinneying giggle which turns into a fit of coughing. All of the men are watching him. 
SECOND MAN Good wages, eh! Pickin' oranges an' peaches? 
BILL Kinda pie y'got? 
MAE Banana cream, pineapple cream, chocolate cream--and apple. 
BILL Cut me off a hunk a that banana cream, and a cuppa java. 
FRED Make it two. 
MAE Two it is. (Smirking) Seen any new etchin's lately, Bill? 
BILL (grinning) Well, here's one ain't bad. Little kid comes in late to school. Teacher says-- 
He stops. Pa is peering in the screen door. Beside him Ruthie and Winfield have their noses flattened against the screen. Mae looks at Pa. 
MAE Yeah? 
PA Could you see your way clear to sell us a loaf of bread, ma'am. 
MAE This ain't a groc'ry store. We got bread to make san'widges with. 
PA I know, ma'am... on'y it's for a ole lady, no teeth, gotta sof'n it with water so she can chew it, an' she's hongry. 
MAE Whyn't you buy a san'wich? We got nice san'widges. 
PA (embarrassed) I shore would like to do that, ma'am, but the fack is, we ain't got but a dime for it. It's all figgered out, I mean--for the trip. 
MAE You can't get no loaf a bread for a dime. We only got fifteen-cent loafs. 
BERT (an angry whisper) Give 'em the bread. 
MAE We'll run out 'fore the bread truck comes. 
BERT Awright then, run out! 
Mae shrugs at the truck drivers, to indicate what she's up against, while Bert mashes his hamburgers savagely with the spatula. 
MAE Come in. 
Pa and the two children come in as Mae opens a drawer and pulls out a long waxpaper-covered loaf of bread. The children have been drawn to the candy showcase and are staring in at the goodies. 
MAE This here's a fifteen-cent loaf. 
PA Would you--could you see your way to cuttin' off ten cents worth? 
BERT (a clinched teeth order) Give 'im the loaf! 
PA No, sir, we wanta buy ten cents worth, thas all. 
MAE (sighing) You can have this for ten cents. 
PA I don't wanta rob you, ma'am. 
MAE (with resignation) Go ahead--Bert says take it. 
Taking out his pouch, Pa digs into it, feels around with his fingers for a dime, as he apologizes. 
PA May soun' funny to be so tight, but we got a thousan' miles to go, an' we don't know if we'll make it. 
But when he puts the dime down on the counter he has a penny with it. He is about to drop this back in the pouch when his eyes fall on the children staring at the candy. Slowly he moves down to see what they are looking at. Then: 
PA Is them penny candy, ma'am? 
The children look up with a gasp, their big eyes on Mae as she moves down behind the counter. 
MAE Which ones? 
PA There, them stripy ones. 
The scene dissolves to a MONTAGE superimposed on the shield marker of U.S. Highway 66 and the Joad truck. Signs flash by: FLAGSTAFF, WATER 5¢ A GAL, WATER 10¢ A GAL, WATER 15¢ A GAL, and finally, NEEDLES, CALIF. 
In the foreground, their backs turned, the Joads stand on and about their truck looking in a long silence at what can be seen of California from Needles. Their silence is eloquent. The faces of the Joads are blank with dismay, for this is an unattractive sight indeed. 
PA (finally) There she is, folks--the land a milk an' honey--California! 
CONNIE (sullenly) Well, if *that's* what we come out here for... 
They look at each other in disappointment. 
ROSASHARN (timidly, to Connie) Maybe it's nice on the other side. Them pitchers--them little pos'cards-- they was real pretty. 
TOM (rallying them) Aw, sure. This here's jus' a part of it. Ain't no sense a gettin' scairt right off. 
PA Course not. Come on, let's get goin'. She don't look so tough to me! 
The Joads and the landscape are seen again. Then the scene dissolves to the BANK OF A RIVER. The camp at Needles is on the bank of the Colorado River, among some willows. We see the man of the family sitting chest-deep in the shallow waters, talking, occasionally ducking their heads under, reveling in this relief. In the background are the towering mountains. 
TOM Got that desert yet. Gotta take her tonight. Take her in the daytime fella says she'll cut your gizzard out. 
PA (to Al) How's Granma since we got her in the tent? 
AL She's off her chump, seems to me. 
NOAH She's outa her senses, awright. All night on the truck keep talkin' like she was talkin' to Grampa. 
TOM She's jus' wore out, that's all. 
PA (worriedly) I shore would like to stop here a while an' give her some res' but we on'y got 'bout forty dollars left. I won't feel right till we're there an' all workin' an' a little money comin' in. 
NOAH (lazily, after a silence) Like to jus' stay here myself. Like to lay here forever. Never get hungry an' never get sad. Lay in the water all life long, lazy as a brood sow in the mud. 
TOM (looking up at the mountains) Never seen such tough mountains. This here's a murder country, just the *bones* of a country. (Thoughtfully) Wonder if we'll ever get in a place where folks can live 'thout fightin' hard scrabble an' rock. Sometimes you get to thinkin' they *ain't* no such country. 
They look up as a man and his grown son stand on the bank. 
MAN How's the swimmin'? 
TOM Dunno. We ain't tried none. Sure feels good to set here, though. 
MAN Mind if we come in an' set? 
TOM She ain't our river. But we'll len' you a little piece of her. 
They start to shuck off their clothes. THE MAN, excluding those undressing, form another scene. 
PA Goin' west? 
MAN'S VOICE Nope. We come from there. Goin' back home. 
TOM Where's home? 
MAN'S VOICE Panhandle, come from near Pampa. 
PA (in surprise) Can you make a livin' there? 
MAN'S VOICE Nope. 
The man and his son sit down in the water. 
MAN (continuing) But at leas' we can starve to death with folks we know. 
There is a long silence among the Joads as the man and his son splash water over their heads. 
PA (slowly) Ya know, you're the second fella talked like that. I'd like to hear some more about that. 
TOM Me an' you both. 
TOM Sallisaw. 
POLICEMAN I come out from Cherokee County--two years ago. 
ROSASHARN (pleased) Why, Connie's folks from Cherokee County-- 
POLICEMAN (stopping her wearily) Okay, ma'am, let's don't go into it. I already met about a hundred firs' cousins an' it mus' be five hundred secon'. But this is what I got to tell you, don't try to park in town tonight. Keep on out to that camp. If we catch you in town after dark we got to lock you up. Don't forget. 
PA (worriedly) But what we gonna *do*? 
POLICEMAN (about to leave) Pop, that just ain't up to me. (Grimly he points to the handbill) But I don't min' tellin' you, the guy they *ought* to lock up is the guy that sent out *them* things. 
He strolls away, the Joads looking concernedly after him, just as the gas station attendant comes briskly to them after disposing of the other car. 
ATTENDANT (brightly) How many, folks? 
AL (after a pause) One. 
The attendant regards him in disgust. 
The scene dissolves to HOOVERVILLE, by day. A large migrant camp, a typical shanty town of ragged tents and tarpaper shacks, jalopies and dirty children. A dozen or more children pause to watch as the Joad truck lumbers down a dirt incline from the road and stops at the edge of the camp in front of one of the most miserable of the shacks. The Joads regard the camp with dismay. 
TOM (shaking his head) She shore don't look prosperous. Want to go somewheres else? 
MA On a gallon a gas? (As Tom grins at her) Let's set up the tent. Maybe I can fix us up some stew. 
The truck moves into the camp through a lane of children. 
The scene dissolves to the JOAD TENT. In front of it, Ma is on her knees feeding a small fire with broken sticks. On the fire is a pot of stew. Ruthie and Winfield stand watching the pot. About fifteen ragged, barefooted children in a half- circle are now around the fire, their solemn eyes on the pot of stew. Occasionally they look at Ma, then back at the stew. Presently one of the older girls speaks. 
GIRL (shyly) I could break up some bresh if you want me, ma'am. 
MA (gently) You want to get ast to eat, hunh? 
GIRL (simply) Yes, ma'am. 
MA Didn' you have no breakfast? 
GIRL No, ma'am. They ain't no work hereabouts. Pa's in tryin' to sell some stuff to get gas so's we can get along. 
MA Didn' none of these have no breakfast? 
There is a long silence. Then: 
BOY (boastfully) I did. Me an' my brother did. We et good. 
MA Then you ain't hungry, are you? 
The boy chokes, his lip sticks out. 
BOY (doggedly) We et good. (Then he breaks and runs) 
MA Well, it's a good thing *some* a you ain't hungry, because they ain't enough to go all the way roun'. 
GIRL Aw, he was braggin'. Know what he done? Las' night, come out an' say they got chicken to eat. Well, sir, I looked in whilst they was a-eatin' an' it was fried dough jus' like ever'body else. 
Pa and John enter. 
PA How 'bout it? 
MA (to Ruthie) Go get Tom an' Al. (looking helplessly at the children) I dunno what to do. I got to feed the fambly. What'm I gonna do with these here? 
She is dishing the stew into tin plates. The children's eyes follow the spoon, and then the first plate, to John. He is raising the first spoonful to his mouth when he notices them apparently for the first time. He is chewing slowly, his eyes on the children, their eyes on his face, when Tom and Al enter. 
JOHN (standing up) You take this. (Handing plate to Tom) I ain't hungry. 
TOM Whatta ya mean? You ain't et today. 
DEPUTY Hmmm. (Giving Floyd a looking over) Seems like I have. Seems like I seen him hangin' around that used car lot that was busted into. Yep, I'd swear it's the same fella. (Sharply) Get in that car. 
TOM You got nothin' on him. 
DEPUTY Open your trap again and you'll go too. 
AGENT (to the men) You fellas don't wanta lissen to troublemakers. You better pack up an' come on to Tulare County. 
The men say nothing. 
DEPUTY Might be a good idea to do what he says. Too many of you Okies aroun' here already. Folks beginnin' to figger it ain't maybe *safe*. Might start a epidemic or sump'n. (After a pause) Wouldn't like a bunch a guys down here with pick handles tonight, would you? 
As the agent gets into the coupe FLOYD'S thumbs hook over his belt and he looks off, away. TOM'S look away is an answer. His thumbs also hook over his belt. 
DEPUTY (to Floyd) Now, you. 
He takes hold of Floyd's left arm. At the same time Floyd swings, smacks him in the face. As the deputy staggers, Tom sticks out a foot and trips him. Floyd is already running through the camp. The deputy fires from the ground. There is a scream. A WOMAN is looking down at her hand, the knuckles shot away. 
The COUPE is seen as the agent steps on the gas to get away. As Floyd gets in the clear, the DEPUTY, sitting on the ground, aims his pistol again, slowly, carefully. Behind him Casy steps up, gauges his distance, and then kicks him square in the base of the skull. The deputy tumbles over unconscious. Tom picks up the pistol. 
CASY Gimme that gun. Now git outa here. Go down in them willows an' wait. 
TOM (angrily) I ain't gonna run. 
CASY He seen you, Tom! You wanta be fingerprinted? You wanta get sent back for breakin' parole? 
TOM You're right! 
CASY Hide in the willows. If it's awright to come back I'll give you four high whistles. 
As Tom strides away there is the distant sound of a siren. Casy empties the gun and throws cartridges and gun aside. The men, aghast, have been standing back, worried and excited and apprehensive. They wish nothing like this had happened. The women have gathered around the wounded woman, who is sobbing. Now at the sound of the siren everybody begins to move uncomfortably toward his tent or shack. Al looks admiringly from Casy to the unconscious deputy. 
Everybody has disappeared into his tent but Al and Casy. The siren draws nearer. 
CASY Go on. Get in your tent. You don't know nothin'. 
AL How 'bout you? 
CASY (grinning) *Some*body got to take the blame. They just *got* to hang it on somebody, you know. (Shrugging) An' I ain't doin' nothin' but set around. 
AL But ain't no reason-- 
CASY (savagely) Lissen. I don't care nothin' about you, but if you mess in this, your whole fambly li'ble to get in trouble, an' Tom get sent back to the penitentiary. 
AL Okay. I think you're a darn fool, though. 
CASY Sure. Why not? 
Al heads for the Joad tent and Casy kneels down and lifts the deputy. He wipes his face clean. The deputy begins to come to. An open car curves off the highway, stops in the clearing, and four men with rifles pile out. The deputy sits rubbing his eyes and Casy stands. 
SECOND DEPUTY What's goin' on here? 
CASY This man a yours, he got tough an' I hit him. Then he started shootin'-- hit a woman down the line--so I hit him again. 
SECOND DEPUTY Well--what'd you do in the first place? 
CASY I talked back. 
Two of the men have helped the deputy to his feet. He feels the back of his neck gingerly. 
CASY They's a woman down there like to bleed to death from his bad shootin'. 
SECOND DEPUTY (to assistant) Take a look at her. (To deputy) Mike, is this the fella that hit you? 
DEPUTY (dazedly) Don't look like him. 
CASY It was me, all right. You just got smart with the wrong fella. 
MA, PA, AND AL (together) Al's tryin' to go away... She jus' got sassy... All I aimed to do... 
TOM (taking the jack-handle) Awright, you can fight it out later. Right now we got to hustle. Where's Connie? 
There is a silence that stops Tom in his rush of preparation. 
MA (quietly) Connie's gone. (Indicating Rosasharn) Lit out this e'enin'--said he didn't know it was gonna be like this. 
PA (angrily) Glad to get shet of him. Never was no good an' never will be-- 
MA Pa! Shh! 
PA How come I got to shh? Run out, didn't he? 
TOM (looking to Rosasharn) Cut it out, Pa. He'p Al with the truck. (He kneels beside Rosasharn. Gently) Don't fret, honey. You goin' to be awright. 
ROSASHARN (uncovering her face) Tom, I jus' don't feel like nothin' a tall. Without him I jus' don't wanta live. 
TOM Maybe he'll be back. We'll leave word for him. Jus' don't cry. (He pats her awkwardly) 
The scene dissolves to HOOVERVILLE, at night. The jalopies are lumbering up on the road, one after the other, as the migrants scatter before the threatened invasion. 
IN THE JOAD TRUCK, Tom is helping Rosasharn into the front seat, beside Ma. The others are aboard except Al. Tom hands Al a wrench. 
TOM Just in case. Sit up back an' if anybody tries to climb up--let 'im have it. 
PA (from truck) I ain't got nothin' in *my* han'. 
TOM (to Al) Give 'im a fryin' pan. (He gets into the driver's seat and starts the truck) 
In the FRONT SEAT of the truck, Tom drives, Ma sits in the middle, Rosasharn on the other side. 
ROSASHARN (hopefully) Maybe Connie went to get some books to study up with. He's gonna be a radio expert, ya know. Maybe he figgered to suprise us. 
MA Maybe that's jus' what he done. 
TOM Ma, they comes a time when a man gets mad. 
MA Tom--you tol' me--you promised you wasn't like that. You promised me. 
TOM I know, Ma. I'm a tryin'. If it was the law they was workin' with, we could take it. But it *ain't* the law. They're workin' away at our spirits. They're tryin' to make us cringe an' crawl. They're workin' on our decency. 
MA You promised, Tommy. 
TOM I'm a-tryin', Ma. Honest I am. 
MA You gotta keep clear, Tom. The fambly's breakin' up. You *got* to keep clear. 
TOM What's that--detour? 
As he slows down the truck, we see that half of the ROAD is blocked with boards and red lanterns. a group of men swarm around the Joad truck as it stops. A leader leans in Tom's window. 
LEADER Where you think you're goin'? 
In the FRONT SEAT of the truck Tom's hand reaches for the jack-handle on the seat at his side but Ma's hand clutches his arm in a steel grip. 
TOM Well-- (then in a servile whine) --we're strangers here. We heard about they's work in a place called Tulare. 
LEADER Well, you're goin' the wrong way, an' what's more, we don't want no more Okies in this town. We ain't got work enough for them that are already here. 
Tom's arm trembles as he tries to pull it away, but Ma holds on tight. 
TOM Which way is it at, mister? 
LEADER You turn right aroun' and head north. An' don't come back till the cotton's ready. 
TOM Yes, sir. 
CASY What's the matter? 
TOM Casy! What you doin' here? 
CASY Well, if it ain't Tom Joad. How ya, boy? 
TOM Thought you was in jail. 
CASY No, I done my time an' got out. Come on in. (He pulls Tom into the tent.) 
INSIDE THE TENT, three other men sit on the ground as Casy brings Tom in. One's name is Frank. 
FRANK This the fella you been talkin' about? 
CASY This is him. What you doin' here, Tommy? 
TOM Workin'. Pickin' peaches. But I seen a bunch a fellas yellin' when we come in, so I come out to see what's goin' on. What's it all about? 
FRANK This here's a strike. 
TOM (puzzled) Well, fi' cents a box ain't much, but a fella can eat. 
FRANK Fi' cents! They pain' you fi' cents? 
TOM Sure. We made a buck since midday. 
CASY (after a long silence) Lookie, Tom. We come to work here. They tell us it's gonna be fi' cents. But they was a whole lot of us, so the man says two an' a half cents. Well, a fella can't even eat on that, an' if he got kids... (After a pause) So we says we won't take it. So they druv us off. Now they're payin' you five--but when they bust this strike ya think they'll pay five? 
TOM I dunno. Payin' five now. 
CASY (soberly) I don't expeck we can las' much longer-- some a the folks ain't et for two days. You goin' back tonight? 
TOM I aim to. 
CASY (earnestly) Well--tell the folks inside how it is, Tom. Tell 'em they're starvin' us and stabbin' theirself in the back. An' as sure as God made little apples it's goin' back to two an' a half jus' as soon as they clear us out. 
FRANK (suddenly) You hear sump'n? 
They listen. Then: 
TOM I'll tell 'em. But I don't know how. Never seen so many guys with guns. Wouldn't even let us talk today. 
CASY Try an' tell 'em, Tom. They'll get two an' a half, jus' the minute we're gone. An' you know what that is? That's one ton a peaches picked an' carried for a dollar. That way you can't even buy food enough to keep you alive! Tell 'em to come out with us, Tom! Them peaches is *ripe*. Two days out an' they'll pay *all* of us five! 
TOM They won't. They're a-gettin' five an' they don't care about nothin' else. 
CASY But jus' the minute they ain't strike- breakin' they won't get no five! 
FRANK (bitterly) An' the nex' thing you know you'll be out, because they got it all figgered down to a T--until the harvest is in you're a *migrant* worker--afterwards, just a bum. 
TOM Five they're a-gettin' now, an' that's all they're int'rested in. I know exackly what Pa'd say. He'd jus' say it wasn't none a his business. 
CASY (reluctantly) I guess that's right. Have to take a beatin' before he'll know. 
TOM We was outa food. Tonight we had meat. Not much, but we had it. Think Pa's gonna give up his meat on account a other fellas? An' Rosasharn needs milk. Think Ma's gonna starve that baby jus' cause a bunch a fellas is yellin' outside a gate? 
CASY (sadly) Got to learn, like I'm a-learnin'. Don't know it right yet myself, but I'm tryin' to fin' out. That's why I can't ever be a preacher again. Preacher got to *know*. (Shaking his head) I don't. I got to *ask*. 
JOE (sticking his head in tent) I don't like it. 
CASY What's the matter? 
JOE Can't tell. Seems like I hear sump'n, an' then I listen an' they ain't nothin' to hear. 
FRANK (rising) 'Tain't outa the question, y'know. (He exits) 
CASY All of us a little itchy. Cops been tellin' us how they gonna beat us up an' run us outa the country. Not them reg'lar deppities, but them tin- star fellas they got for guards. (After a pause) They figger I'm the leader because I talk so much. 
ROSASHARN No'm. 
MA Stand by the door. 
Rosasharn takes her post at the door as Ma kneels on the floor beside Tom, puts down the rag bundle, and gets a basin. Tom, who is under a quilt, is with his back alone visible. She speaks softly, guardedly, as she bathes his face. 
MA How's it feel, Tommy? 
TOM Busted my cheek but I can still see. What'd you hear? 
MA Looks like you done it. 
TOM (soberly) I kinda thought so. Felt like it. 
MA Folks ain't talkin' about much else. They say they got posses out. Talkin' about a lynchin'--when they catch the fella. 
TOM They killed Casy first. 
MA That ain't the way they're tellin' it. They're sayin' you done it fust. 
TOM (after a pause) They know what--this fella looks like? 
MA They know he got hit in the face. 
TOM (slowly) I'm sorry, Ma. But--I didn't know what I was doin', no more'n when you take a breath. I didn't even know I was gonna do it. 
MA It's awright, Tommy. I wisht you didn't do it, but you done what you had to do. I can't read no fault in you. 
TOM I'm gonna go away tonight. I can't go puttin' this on you folks. 
MA (angrily) Tom! They's a whole lot I don't understan', but goin' away ain't gonna ease us. (Thoughtfully) They was the time when we was on the lan'. They was a bound'ry to us then. Ol' folks died off, an' little fellas come, an' we was always one thing-- we was the fambly--kinda whole an' clear. But now we ain't clear no more. They ain't nothin' keeps us clear. Al--he's a-hankerin' an' a- jibbitin' to go off on his own. An' Uncle John is just a-draggin' along. Pa's lost his place--he ain't the head no more. We're crackin' up, Tom. They ain't no fambly now. Rosasharn-- (a glance at the girl) --she gonna have her baby, but *it* ain't gonna have no fambly. I been tryin' to keep her goin' but--Winfiel'-- what's he gonna be, this-a-way? Growin' up wild, an' Ruthie, too-- like animals. Got nothin' to trus'. Don't go Tom. Stay an' help. Help me. 
TOM (tiredly) Okay, Ma. I shouldn't, though. I know I shouldn't. But okay. 
ROSASHARN Here come a lot of people. 
Tom puts his head under the quilt. Ma turns, faces the door, her body protectively between Tom and whatever threatens. 
BOOKKEEPER'S VOICE How many of you? 
MIGRANT'S VOICE Ten of us. Whatcha payin'? 
OUTSIDE HOUSE 63, the bookkeeper has encountered the newcomers. 
BOOKKEEPER House 25. Number's on the door. 
MIGRANT Okay, mister. Whatcha payin'? 
BOOKKEEPER Two and a half cents. 
MIGRANT (angrily) Two an' a half! Say, mister, a man can't make his dinner on that. 
BOOKKEEPER Take it or leave it. There's 200 men coming from the South that'll be glad to get it. 
MIGRANT But--but how we gonna eat? 
BOOKKEEPER Look, I didn't set the price. I'm just working here. If you want it, take it. If you don't, turn right around and beat it. 
MIGRANT (sullenly) Which way is House 25? 
TOM (slowly) That Casy. He might a been a preacher, but--he seen a lot a things clear. He was like a lantern--he helped mw see things too. 
MA Comes night we'll get outa here. 
At night, the TRUCK is backed up to the door of House 63; it is already loaded. Ma is speaking in a low voice to Tom, who is peering out from under a mattress in the truck. 
MA It's jus' till we get some distance. Then you can come out. 
TOM She's hotter'n a heifer. 
AL Fan-belt's shot. 
He pulls out the pieces. Tom gets out and takes off the radiator cap. There is a geyser of steam. In the back of the truck the others stand looking on, sleepy-eyed. 
TOM (looking around) Picks a nice place for it, too, don't she? 
They all look around. At first they find nothing in sight. Al and Tom look at each other in disgust. 
TOM Any gas? 
AL Gallon or two? 
TOM (whistling) Well, looks like we done it this time awright! 
ROSASHARN (standing in truck) Tommy. (Pointing) Some smoke up there. 
All look. Tom climbs on the running board the better to see. 
TOM Looks like about a mile. Reckon she'll make it? 
AL She got to make it. 
MA (as they get back in) What is it? 
TOM Don't know--but it's better'n this. 
As Al starts the truck, the scene dissolves to a weather- beaten wooden sign: "PERMANENT CAMP NO. 9"  "DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE" 
We see the GATE TO THE GOVERNMENT CAMP, a wide gate in a high wire fence, with a caretaker's shack to one side of the gate. The caretaker stands beside his shack as the Joad truck swings off the road, hits an unnoticed rut that bounces the whole truck off the ground, and stops. 
CARETAKER (mildly) You hit 'er too fast. 
In the FRONT SEAT Al leans angrily out of the driver's window. Tom is keeping his face away from the caretaker's line of vision. 
AL What's the idea of that? 
CARETAKER (chuckling) Well, a lot a kids play in here. You tell folks to go slow and they liable to forget. But let 'em hit that hump once and they don't forget! 
Al starts climbing out. Pa jumps down from the truck. 
AL Got any room here for us? 
CARETAKER (nodding) You're lucky. Fellow just moved out half-hour ago. (Pointing) Down that line and turn to the left. You'll see it. You'll be in No. 4 Sanitary Unit. 
MA What's that? 
CARETAKER Toilet and showers and washtubs. 
MA You mean you got *washtubs?* An' runnin' water? 
CARETAKER Yes, ma'am. (To Al) Camp committee'll call on you in the morning and get you fixed. 
AL (quickly) Cops? 
CARETAKER No. No cops. Folks here elect their own cops. (To Ma) The ladies' committee'll call on you, ma'am, about the kids and the sanitary unit and who takes care of 'em. (To Al) Come inside and sign up. 
As Ma, Pa, and Al look at each other in almost incredulous bewilderment, Tom climbs out of the truck. 
TOM Take 'er on down, Al. I'll sign. 
PA We gonna stay, ain't we? 
TOM You're tootin' we're gonna stay. (He follows the caretaker into the shack) 
INSIDE THE SHACK, Tom enters warily, alert for any indication that either his name or his scar may have been learned and telegraphed here. But the caretaker obviously attaches no significance to either. The shack is bare but for a cot, a table, a chair, and an electric light. The caretaker is seated at the table, pen in hand, a soiled ledger open, when Tom enters. 
WINFIELD is seen asleep in a quilt on the ground when Ruthie enters and rousts him out. 
RUTHIE (in an excited whisper) Git up. I got sump'n to show you. 
WINFIELD (sleepily) Whatsa matter? 
RUTHIE (tugging him) It's them white things, made outa dish-stuff, like in the catalogues! 
He stumbles after her. 
THE EXTERIOR OF SANITARY UNIT NO. 4. Ruthie is putting on a bold front as she leads Winfield into sight but she is still alert for interference. 
RUTHIE Come on. Ain't nobody gonna say anything. 
WINFIELD Won't they ketch us? 
He follows her into the unit, big-eyed with excitement and apprehension. There is a silence. Then: 
RUTHIE'S VOICE Them's where you wash your han's. 
Another silence. Then: 
WINFIELD'S VOICE What's these? 
RUTHIE'S VOICE (uncertainly) Well, I reckon you *stan'* in them little rooms--an' water come down outa that there little jigger up there--take a bath! 
Another silence. Then: 
WINFIELD'S VOICE (excitedly) Jes' like in the catalogues, ain't they! 
RUTHIE'S VOICE (proudly) I seen 'em b'fore you did. 
WINFIELD'S VOICE What's this? 
RUTHIE'S VOICE (in alarm) Now don't you go monk'ing-- 
There is the sound of a toilet flushing. It is a cheap toilet and it is a loud flush which eventually ends in a long refilling of the tank just as loudly. There is a paralyzed silence. Then: 
RUTHIE'S VOICE Now you done it! You busted it! 
WINFIELD'S VOICE I never-- 
Terrified, Winfield comes dashing out of the unit but Ruthie grabs him just outside the door. Beginning to cry, he struggles to get away. 
WINFIELD Lemme go! I didn't go to do it! 
RUTHIE (fiercely) Keep qui'te, will ya! Shet your mouth! 
WINFIELD (weeping) I never knowed it! All I done was pull that string! 
RUTHIE Lissen. You done busted it. You hear? (They listen to the refilling of the tank) But lissen here. I won't tell nobody, y'understan'? 
WINFIELD Please don't. 
RUTHIE I won't-- (craftily) --if you won't tell what *I* done! 
He nods quickly. Then Ruthie begins to walk away with what she fancies is an innocent, nonchalant stroll, yawning casually. Sniffling a little, Winfield mimics her, a very innocent walk and yawn indeed. 
The scene dissolves to a DITCH. Alongside the ditch are some lengths of concrete pipe. Tom and the two Wallaces are in the ditch, Tom and Tim picking, Wilkie shoveling. 
TOM (exulting) If this don't feel good! 
WILKIE (chuckling) Wait'll about 'leven o'clock, see how good she feels then! 
TOM Seems like a nice frien'ly fella to work for, too. 
TIM Lotta these little farmers mighty nice fellas. Trouble is they're little, they ain't got much say-so. 
ROSASHARN An' you won't let nobody touch me? 
MA No--an' look what I got for you. 
Smiling mysteriously, Ma fishes in a pocket in her dress and brings out the envelope of her treasures. From it she produces the earrings and holds them up in front of Rosasharn's wide eyes. 
MA (softly) I used to wear these--when your pa come callin' on me. (Then as she puts them on Rosasharn's ears) You'll look pretty in 'em tonight. 
They smile at each other, proud in the luxury of ornaments. 
Down the road from the GATE a touring car with six men pulls of the pavement and stops. Three men get out. They are bareheaded and dressed similar to the other migrants. They stroll down the highway toward the gate. The other men, deputies, sit watching them. 
WITHIN THE GATE: 
WILKIE They tell me you're half Injun. You look all Injun to me. 
JULE No, jes' half. Wisht I was full- blooded. Gov'ment'd be lookin' out for me an' I'd be ridin' around in a Buick eight. 
The three men from the touring car are at the gate. Wilkie and Jule watch them. 
COMMITTEE MAN Who give you the invitation? 
MAN Fella named Jackson--Buck Jackson. 
COMMITTEE MAN Okay. Come on in. 
The three men stroll past Wilkie and Jule, whose eyes follow them. 
JULE Them's our fellas. 
WILKIE How you know? 
JULE Jes' got a feelin'. They're kinda scared too. Follow 'em an' get a holt of Jackson. See if he knows 'em. I'll stay here. 
Wilkie moves after them. 
We see the DANCE FLOOR. The musicians are at it and the fiddler is calling turns. 
FIDDLER Swing your ladies an' a dol ce do. Join han's roun' an' away we go! Swing to the right an' a swing to the lef'. Break, now break--back to back! 
Well in front, among the older folks and children who surround the floor, are Ma and Rosasharn, clinging close. A young man stops in front of them. 
MA (quietly) Thank you kin'ly but she ain't well. 
As Rosasharn's eyes drop. Ma bends toward her, a shy smile on her face. 
MA Maybe you wouldn't think it, but your pa was as nice a dancer as I ever seen, when he was young. (With a little sigh) Kinda makes me think a ol' times. 
The three men stroll into sight and stand watching the dancing. One glances at Ma and Rosasharn but does not speak. Ma has smiled back at him. 
WILKIE AND JACKSON are seen; removed somewhat from the dance floor they are peering in the direction of the three men. 
JACKSON I seen 'em before. Worked at Gregorio's with 'em. But I never ast 'em. 
WILKIE Awright. Keep your eye on 'em. Jus' keep 'em in sight, that's all. (He moves quickly away) 
We find ourselves INSIDE TIM WALLACE'S TENT.  The five members of the central committee, Tim Wallace, chairman, look grave as a 15-year-old boy reports. 
BOY I seen 'em, Mr. Wallace. A car with six men parked down by the euc'lyptus tree an' one with three men on the main road. They got guns, too. I seen 'em. 
TIM Thank you, Willie. You done good. (As Willie exits) Well, it looks like the fat's in the far this time. 
FIRST MAN (angrily) What them deppities want to hurt the camp for? How come they can't leave us be? 
SECOND MAN What we oughta do, we oughta git us some pickhandles an'-- 
TIM (quickly) No!  That's what they want. No sir. If they can git a fight goin', then they can run in the cops an' say we ain't orderly-- (He stops as Wilkie enters followed by Tom) 
AL (angrily) You an' who else? 
Behind the three men a solid wall of migrants are closing in quietly, Tom and Wilkie in the middle. 
LEADER Don't gimme no argament-- (A shrill whistle sounds in the distance) --you little-- 
His fist goes back, his left hand reaches for Al's collar. At the same instant Tom grabs him, Wilkie claps his hand over the leader's mouth, at least fifteen other men have similarly collard the other two invaders, and they are all lifted bodily. There is not a sound as the three men, held in iron grips, are whisked from the dance floor and into the crowd. 
Two touring cars have stopped in front of the closed GATE and the deputies have drawn guns. 
DRIVER Open up! We hear you got a riot. 
CARETAKER Riot? I don't see no riot. Who're you? 
DRIVER Deputy sheriffs. 
CARETAKER Got a warrant? 
DRIVER We don't need a warrant if it's a riot. 
CARETAKER Well, I don't know what you gonna do about it, because I don't hear no riot an' I don't see no riot, an' what's more I don't believe they *is* no riot. (Waving toward the dance floor) Look for yourself. 
As the deputies, puzzled and uncertain, look toward the DANCE FLOOR, we see the music, the dancing, the gaiety continuing as if nothing had happened. 
WITHIN THE JOAD TENT at night, several hours later: the tent is black, Tom strikes a match. From a piece of wood on the ground or floor he selects one from several cigarette butts and lights it. While he is doing so, he lifts his head suddenly, and listens. 
In the CAMP STREET we catch sight of legs walking, the ground lighted from a flashlight. Two pairs of the legs wear state policemen's leather leggings. The third pair are the caretaker's. They stop behind a car. The flashlight plays on the license plate. One of the state cops leans down to copy the license number in a booklet. Then they move on. 
TOM has lifted the edge of the tent a trifle, enough to see out by flattening his head on the floor. The LEGS are now seen at the Joad jalopy. The light is on the license plate. The cop leans over and copies the number. They move on. 
TOM, lowering the edge of the tent, sits up. Quietly he pushes aside the piece of carpet that covers him. He is wearing his clothes. We see the policeman's CAR at the caretaker's hut. The two policemen get into the car. 
CARETAKER You got no right to arrest anybody without a warrant, you know. 
FIRST COP We'll have a warrant--just as soon as we check with headquarters. 
The car drives off, leaving the caretaker looking somberly after it. 
WITHIN THE JOAD TENT, his cap on, fully dressed for travel, Tom is tieing the ends of the carpet into a shoulder bundle. Rising, he slings it across his shoulder. As he tiptoes toward the door: 
MA Ain't you gonna tell me goodbye, Tommy? 
For a moment he looks into the darkness in her direction. 
TOM I didn't know, Ma. I didn't know if I ought. 
She has risen, pulling the quilt around her. He takes her by the hand. 
TOM Come outside. 
They go out. Tom leads Ma around BEHIND THE TENT, to a SECTION OF WIRE FENCE. There is a bench there. Tom leads Ma to it and sits her down. He sits beside her. 
TOM They was some cops here, Ma. They was takin' down the license numbers. It looks like somebody knows sump'n. 
MA (softly) It had to come, I reckon, soon or later. 
TOM I'd like to stay. I'd like to be with ya-- (smiling) --an' see your face when you an' Pa get settled in a nice little place. I sure wish I could see you then. But-- (shaking his head) --I guess I won't never be able to do that. Not now. 
MA I could hide you, Tommy. 
TOM (touching her hand) I know you would, Ma. But I ain't gonna let you. You hide somebody that's kilt a man an'... an' you'd be in trouble too. 
MA (touching his face with her fingers) Awright, Tommy. What you figger you gonna do? 
TOM (thoughtfully) You know what I been thinkin' about, Ma? About Casy. About what he said, what he done, an' about how he died. An' I remember all of it. 
MA He was a good man. 
