SLOW PUSH IN on Paul, watching. He'd like to take his eyes off the screen, but the movie has him in a grip tighter than Brad Dolan's. Elaine is watching him with puzzled concern: 
ELAINE Paul? What is it? 
No response. All he can hear is that music, all he can see are those dancers. The figures on TV are gliding with ghostlike grace in their silvery, phosphor-dot world of long ago... 
Paul abruptly bursts into tears. 
The room goes quiet, everything comes to a standstill. All eyes turn, some concerned, others merely curious. Paul just sits sobbing into his hands, shoulders heaving. 
ELAINE Paul...my God... 
ORDERLY (rushing over) What is it? What's wrong? 
PAUL It's okay...I'll be okay... 
Another orderly appears--Brad Dolan. He puts his hand on Paul's shoulder and leans close, feigning concern. 
BRAD S'matter, Paulie? Why the boo-hoo- hoo? Something nasty happen? 
Elaine shoves his hand away, eyes flashing with anger. 
ELAINE Mr. Edgecomb will be perfectly fine without your help, thank you. 
Brad back off with a "hey, suit yourself" gesture. Elaine helps Paul to his feet and leads him out. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SUN ROOM - DAY 
Paul is staring out the windows, pensive and drained. It's raining now, pattering the glass and the lawn beyond. Elaine waits across from him, wishing he would speak. Softly: 
PAUL I guess sometimes the past just catches up with you, whether you want it to or not. It's silly. 
ELAINE Was it the film? (off his look) It was, wasn't it? 
PAUL I haven't spoken of these things in a long time, Ellie. Over sixty years. 
She reaches out, gently takes his hand. 
ELAINE Paul. I'm your friend. 
PAUL Yes. Yes you are. 
Paul wonders if he's even up to talking about it after all this time...and decides that perhaps he is: 
PAUL I ever tell you I was a prison guard during the depression? 
ELAINE You've mentioned it. 
PAUL Did I mention I was in charge of death row? That I supervised all the executions? 
This does come as a surprise. She shakes her head. 
PAUL They usually call death row the Last Mile, but we called ours the Green Mile, because the floor was the color of faded limes. We had the electric chair then. Old Sparky, we called it. (beat) I've lived a lot of years, Ellie, but 1935 takes the prize. That was the year I had the worst urinary infection of my life. That was also the year of John Coffey, and the two dead girls... 
FADE TO BLACK 
In blackness, a title card appears: 
"The Two Dead Girls" 
CUT TO: 
EXT. GEORGIA COUNTRYSIDE - DAY (1935) 
HUNDREDS OF PRISONERS work the fields, pickaxes rising and falling in waves, a prison song being sung in cadence with the work. GUARDS patrol on horseback, rifles aimed at the sky. 
A late 20's Ford PRISON TRUCK comes chugging into view along the road, kicking up a long trail of dust in the heat. It seems to be riding unusually low on its rear suspension. 
EXT. COLD MOUNTAIN PENITENTIARY - ESTABLISHING - DAY 
A Depression-era prison in the south. The prison truck sways down the rutted dirt road toward the main gate... 
INT. E BLOCK TOILET - DAY 
...while Paul Edgecomb, early 40's, stands in a cramped toilet in his guard's uniform, trying to piss. His face is pained, his forehead beaded with sweat. 
INT. E BLOCK (THE GREEN MILE) - DAY 
BRUTUS HOWELL(nicknamed "Brutal" for his intimidating size, but he's actually rather thoughtful by nature) stands at the entry door of the cellblock, peering out through a viewing slot. He sees the prison truck arrive at the main gate. 
He turns and nods to fellow guard DEAN STANTON sitting at the duty desk, then cross the Green Mile--a wide corridor of faded green linoleum running some sixty paces top to bottom, with four large cells to a side. 
Brutal steps to the bathroom, listen a moment, knocks softly. 
BRUTAL Paul? Prisoner. 
PAUL (O.S.) Christ. Gimme a minute. 
Brutal waits patiently, a bit embarrassed. He finally hears a THIN TRICKLE, accompanied by a stifled groan of pain. 
BRUTAL You all right in there? 
PAUL (O.S.) For a man pissing razor blades. 
The door opens, revealing Paul's pale and sweaty face. 
BRUTAL You should'a took the day off, gone to see the doctor. 
PAUL With a new arrival? You know better. Besides, it's not as bad as it was. I think it's clearing up. 
HAL Melinda's not so well, Paul. Not so well at all. Got laid up with another headache yesterday. Worst one yet. She's also developed this weakness in her right hand. 
PAUL Doctor still think it's migraines? 
Hal gives a slight shake of his head. 
HAL I'll be taking her up to Indianola next day or so for some tests. Had X-rays and the like. She is scared to death. Truth to tell, so am I. 
PAUL If it's something they can see with an X-ray, maybe it's something they can fix. 
HAL Maybe. 
He pulls a letter, hands it to Paul. 
HAL This just came in. D.O.E. on Bitterbuck. 
Paul glances toward Bitterbuck, scans the letter, nods. 
PAUL You didn't come all the way down here just to hand me a D.O.E. 
HAL No. I had an angry call from the state capital about twenty minutes ago. Is it true you ordered Percy Wetmore off the block. 
PAUL It is. 
HAL I'm sure you had reason, but like it or not, the wife of the governor of this state has only one nephew, and his name happens to be Percy Wetmore. I need to tell you how this lays out? 
PAUL Little Percy called his aunt and squealed like a schoolroom sissy. (Hal nods) He also mention he assaulted a prisoner this morning out of sheer petulance? Broke three fingers on Eduard Delacroix's left hand. 
HAL I didn't hear that part. I'm sure she didn't either. 
PAUL The man is mean, careless, and stupid. Bad combination in a place like this. Sooner or later, he's gonna get somebody hurt. Or worse. 
HAL You and Brutus Howell will make sure that doesn't happen. 
PAUL Easy enough to say. We can't watch him every minute, Hal. 
HAL Stick with it. May not be much longer. I have it on good authority that Percy has an application in at Briar Ridge. 
PAUL The mental hospital? 
HAL (nods) Administration job. Better pay. 
PAUL Then why's he still here? He could get that application pushed through...hell, with his connections, he could have any state job he wants. 
Hal has no answer. Paul look off toward Bitterbuck. 
PAUL Tell you what I think. I think he just wants to see one cook up close. 
Hal follows Paul's gaze, takes his meaning. 
HAL Well, he'll get his chance then, won't he? Maybe then he'll be satisfied and move on. In the meantime, you'll keep the peace. 
PAUL Of course. 
HAL Thank you, Paul. 
Hal rises, slapping yard dust off his trousers. 
PAUL You give Melinda my love, okay? I bet that X-ray turns out to be nothing at all. 
Hal walks off looking like he's got the weight of the world on his shoulders. Paul looks at the letter again... 
TIGHT ON LETTER 
...which is head: Date Of Execution." 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. PAUL'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Paul is at the kitchen table in the wee hours of the morning, drinking buttermilk and listening to SOFT MUSIC on the radio. JANICE EDGECOMB appears, shuffling sleepily downstairs. 
JAN Paul? 
PAUL Hey, you. Music too loud? 
JAN No. There's just this big empty spot in the bed where my husband usually sleeps. 
PAUL He said to tell you he's having a little trouble with that tonight. 
She comes into the kitchen, strokes his hair. There's an easy familiarity and a deep love between these two. 
JAN Worried about Melinda and Hal? Is that what's got you up? 
PAUL Yeah, that. Things. 
JAN Things. 
She sits on his lap and gives him a crooked smile--you're not getting off that easily. 
PAUL Got a new inmate today. Big, simple-minded fella. 
JAN Do I want to hear what he did? 
PAUL No. One sleepless member of this family's enough. (softly) The things that happen in this world. It's a wonder God allows it. 
She gives him a tiny kiss above his left eyebrow, in that special spot that makes him prickle. 
JAN Why don't you come to bed? I've got something to help you sleep, and you can have all you want. 
PAUL Don't I wish. I've still got something wrong with my waterworks, I don't want to pass it on. 
CUT TO: 
INT. E BLOCK - DAY 
A low, static shot. Green floor stretching before us. Harry and Bill Dodge are at the desk b.g., doing paperwork and filing chores. Percy is idling nearby, whistling softly and combing his hair... 
...and into this quiet shot, deep in foreground, creeps the mouse. He starts walking the Mile as before... 
...right toward Percy. 
COFFEY 
stares through his bars as the mouse goes by... 
PERCY 
keeps combing his hair, unaware... 
DEL 
sits quietly picking his nose in his cell. The mouse appears outside the bars, cruising inexorably up the Mile. Del turns slowly, watches the mouse go by... 
PERCY 
still grooming himself, still unaware... 
THE MOUSE 
keeps coming closer. ANGLE UP to Bitterbuck peering through his bars, watching him go by... 
PERCY 
keeps working that comb--and freezes at the sound of a TINY SQUEAK. His head swivels slowly... 
...and there's the mouse. Staring at him. 
That moment of eye contact reveals an enmity older than time itself. If mice have a natural enemy, Percy is it. 
PAUL You little son of a bitch. 
Harry and Bill glance up from their work. 
HARRY Well, I'll be damned. There he is, big as Billy-be-frigged. I thought Brutal was pulling my leg. 
BILL That's a goddamn mouse. 
HARRY Yeah. Brute said he was in here last night begging for food, came right up to the desk. 
BILL My ass. Give him some room, Percy, see what he does. 
Percy takes a few careful steps back, eyes never leaving the mouse. (Percy's hand starts easing toward the handle of his baton.) The mouse comes up to the desk as before. 
HARRY Brave little bastard, gotta give him that. 
Harry breaks off a small piece of cracker and drops it. The mouse picks it up, starts to eat. (Percy's hand inches ever closer to his baton). 
BILL Here, lemme try. 
Bill drops a piece of cracker. The mouse ignores it completely, keeping its beady little eyes on Harry. (Percy's hand starts easing his baton from its holster.) 
BILL Maybe he's full. 
HARRY (grins) Maybe he knows you're just a floater. Gotta be an E Block regular to feed the E Block mouse, don'cha know... 
Harry drops another piece--and sure enough, the mouse starts to eat. Harry's smile fades. He and Bill trade a look. 
HARRY I was just kidding ab-- 
Percy lets rip a BELLOWING WAR CRY ("Yaaaahhh!") and launches his baton like a spear, scaring the crap out of everyone. 
The mouse ducks (yes, actually ducks) and the baton sail over his head close enough to ruffle its fur, bouncing off the floor. Apparently remembering a pressing engagement elsewhere, the mouse takes off in a flash toward the restraint room. 
Percy roars with frustration and takes off after it, trying to squash it with his heavy work shoes, leaping and stomping with great big galloping strides, missing the mouse by inches... 
...and thus is the Green Mile traversed, with Percy stomping and hollering like a spastic flamenco dancer, the convicts yelling at their bars, the mouse zigging and zagging like Jim Thorpe heading for the endzone... 
The mouse wins, zipping to safety under the restraint room door. Percy pounds his fist against the door in frustration: 
PERCY FUCK! 
He fumbles with his keys, unlocks the door, yelling all the while: 
PERCY I'M GONNA RIP YOUR DISEASED HEAD OFF, YOU LITTLE PIECE OF SHIT! 
OUTSIDE E BLOCK 
Paul and Brutal are arriving for work--they pause, hearing PERCY'S YELLS drifting from the windows. The regular CONS in the yard are drifting curiously to the fence, wondering if a riot's brewing. Paul and Brutal take off running-- 
INSIDE E BLOCK 
--and rush in to find: 
HARRY Percy met your mouse. 
Harry points. Percy's down at the far end, rummaging wildly in the restraint room, tossing shit out onto the Mile. 
PERCY It's in here somewhere! I'm gonna squish the little son of a bitch! 
He starts muscling the filing cabinet out the door, kicking buckets out of his way. Brutal calls out to him: 
BRUTAL Percy, we already tried that-- 
Toot springs to his feet and steps from the cell. 
TOOT I'm steppin' forward, I'm steppin' forward, I'm steppin' forward... 
Toot turns, shows the top of his head to Dean. 
PAUL Is his head properly shaved? 
DEAN No, it's dandruffy and it smells. 
PAUL I'll take that for a yes. All right, Arlen, let's go. 
Toot starts up the corridor, ringed by guards. 
TOOT I'm walkin' the Mile, I'm walkin' the Mile, I'm walkin' the Mile... 
PAUL'S INNER OFFICE 
Toot throws himself to his knees as soon as they enter: 
TOOT I'm prayin', I'm prayin', I'm prayin'. The Lord is my shepherd, so on an' so forth... 
PAUL Toot, you have to wait till I tell you to pray. (Toot waits) Okay, pray. 
TOOT Still prayin', still prayin'... 
HARRY Paul, we're not gonna have some Cherokee medicine man in here whoopin' and hollerin' and shaking his dick, are we? 
PAUL Well, actually-- 
TOOT Still prayin', prayin', gettin' right with Jesus... 
HARRY Do it quietly, you old gink! 
Harry slaps Toot upside the head to shut him up. 
PAUL As I was saying, I don't believe they actually shake their dicks, Harry. Be that as it may, Mr. Bitterbuck is a Christian, so we got Reverend Schuster coming in. 
DEAN Oh, he's good. Fast, too. Doesn't get 'em worked up. 
PAUL On your feet, Toot. You've prayed enough for one day. 
TOOT Gettin' to my feet, walkin' again, walkin' on the Green Mile... 
EXECUTION CHAMBER 
They enter. Brutal is waiting for them, gun drawn. Percy peers out from behind the partition wall from the switch room. 
PERCY What do I do? 
PAUL Watch and learn. 
Paul motions Percy behind the wall. Percy sighs, takes his spot next to Jack Van Hay, peers through the wire mesh as Toot plops into Old Sparky, wriggling his skinny ass to get comfy. 
TOOT Sittin' down, sittin' down, takin' a seat in Old Sparky's lap... 
Paul and Dean kneel to apply the ankle clamps. Brutal steps in from the side, pressing down on the condemned man's left arm to keep him in place until the ankle clamps are secure. Harry moves in from the other side, securing the right arm clamp. 
TOOT Gettin' clamped, gettin' clamped, gettin'--ow, shit, watch the skin! 
Paul signals "ankles secure." Brutal holsters his pistol, applies the final clamp to the left arm. 
BRUTAL Roll on one. 
BEHIND THE PARTITION 
Van Hay mimes turning the generator knob up, whispering: 
VAN HAY "Roll on one" means I turn the generator up full. You'll see the lights go brighter in half the prison... 
RESUME MAIN CHAMBER 
as Brutal steps before the "condemned" and pronounces: 
BRUTAL Arlen Bitterbuck, you have been condemned to die by a jury of your peers, sentence imposed by a judge in good standing in this state. 
Do you have anything to say before the sentence is carried out? 
TOOT (gleefully) Yeah! I want a fried chicken dinner with gravy on the taters, I want to shit in your hat, and I got to have Mae West sit on my face, because I am one horny motherfucker! 
Brutal tries to hold on, but it's impossible--he cracks up. Everybody falls apart, howling helplessly with laughter. Even Jack Van Hay is guffawing behind his partition. 
Only Paul is reining it in--he's a little too pissed to go with it. He waits until the laughing fit starts to pass, then: 
PAUL Shut up, Brutal. That goes for everybody. I want quiet in here. (turns) Toot, another remark like that, I'll have Van Hay roll on two for real. 
BRUTAL (beat, gently) It was pretty funny. 
PAUL That's why I don't like it. Tomorrow night we're doing this for real. I don't want somebody remembering a stupid joke like that and getting going again. (off their looks) Ever try not laughing in church once something funny gets stuck in your head. Same goddamn thing. 
BRUTAL Sorry, Paul. You're right. Let's keep going. Harry... 
Harry takes a black mask and snugs it down over Toot's head, leaving only the crown of his head exposed. Brutal takes a large sponge, dips it in a steel bucket, mimes soaking it... 
BEHIND THE PARTITION 
PERCY What's with the sponge? 
VAN HAY You soak it in brine, get it good and wet. Conducts the electricity directly to the brain, fast like a bullet. You don't ever want to throw the switch on a man without that. 
RESUME MAIN CHAMBER 
PAUL (beat) What's with you? Seeing a man die isn't enough? You gotta be close enough to smell his nuts cook? 
PERCY I wanna be out front, is all. Just one time. Then you'll be rid of me. 
PAUL If I say no? 
PERCY I might just stick around for good, make me a career of this. 
Paul just shakes his head in wonder and walks away. 
FADE TO: 
INT. COFFEY'S CELL - DAY 
Coffey's lying on his bunk, weeping quiet tears. He stirs at the sound of GIGGLING. He sits up, peers curiously through the bars. Softly: 
COFFEY Del? 
AT THE GUARD STATION 
Paul glances up from writing in the daily log. Silence now. He goes back to writing--and the GIGGLING comes again. 
PAUL Delacroix? That you? 
No answer. Just more giggling. Paul rises, walks down the Mile to Delacroix's cell--and stops, staring in through the bars. 
PAUL'S INNER OFFICE 
Brutal and Dean are having lunch. Paul pokes his head in. 
PAUL You are not gonna believe this. 
RESUME E BLOCK 
The men follow Paul onto the Mile. By now, Del is CACKLING WILDLY in his cell. Brutal shoots Paul a look--has he gone insane? Paul gestures "see for yourself." 
They arrive at the bars...and find the mouse sitting on Del's shoulder. Del looks up, giggling like a kid at Christmas. 
DEL Look! I done tame me dat mouse! 
PAUL We see that. 
DEL Watch dis! Watch what he do! 
He stretches out his left arm. The mouse crawls over the top of his head, scampers along his arm to the wrist, turns around and scampers back. The guards just stand there, staring. 
DEL Ain't he sumpthin now? Ain't Mr. Jingles smart? 
PAUL Mr. Jingles? 
DEL Dat his name. He whisper it in my ear. Cap'n, can I have a box for my mouse so he can sleep in here wi' me? 
PAUL I notice your English gets better when you want something. 
DEL Wanna see what else he can do? Watch, watch, watch... 
He puts the mouse on the floor, grabs a small wooden spool. The mouse sees it, poises like a man getting ready for a race. 
DEL We play fetch, Mr. Jingles? We play fetch? 
He tosses the spool across the floor, bounces it against the wall. The mouse goes after it like a dog after a stick--and proceeds to push it back to the bunk, rolling it with its front paws all the way to Delacroix's feet. 
By now, the guard's jaws are hanging open. Paul's got a funny little chill running up his spine. 
DEL He fetch it ever' time. Smart as hell, ain't he? We do da trick again, watch, watch, watch... 
Again he throws the spool. Again the mouse goes after it, starts rolling it back. Del howls with laughter, claps his hands like a kid. Brutal murmurs to the others: 
BRUTAL Who's training who here? 
COFFEY That's some smart mouse, Del. Like he's a circus mouse or something. 
DEL A circus mouse! Dat jus' what he is, too! A circus mouse! I get outta here, he make me rich, see if he don't! 
He picks up the spool again, makes a drumroll sound, tosses it. The mouse does its thing, rolling the spool back... 
...as Percy enters the scene. Del catches sight of him and scoops up his mouse, drawing fearfully back on his bunk. He tries to hide Mr. Jingles in his hands--but the mouse wriggles from his grasp and scampers up on top of his head, where he regards Percy with mistrustful, beady mouse eyes. 
PERCY Well, well. Looks like you found yourself a new friend, Eddie. 
Del tries to offer some defiance--but all he can manage is: 
DEL Don' hurt him, 'kay? 'kay? 
Percy shrugs as if to say "no skin off me", looks to Paul. 
PERCY That the one I chased? 
PAUL (level) Yes, that's the one. Only Del says his name is Mr. Jingles. 
PERCY Is that so? 
Paul trades a look with the others, everybody wondering just what the hell's going through Percy's mind. 
PAUL Del was just asking for a box. He thinks the mouse will sleep in it, I guess. That he might keep it for a pet. What do you think? 
PERCY I think it'll shit up his nose some night and run away, but I guess that's Del's lookout. (beat) We oughtta find a cigar box. Get some cotton batting from he dispensary to line it with. That should do real nice. 
Percy walks away, leaving them dumbstruck. Paul turns to the others. Of all the things they've seen in the last few minutes, Percy being nice is the most amazing of all. 
PAUL Man said get a cigar box. 
Percy does a quick impression of a man jittering and jerking in the electric chair. 
PERCY Bzzzzzzzzt-zap! Just like that! How's it feel to know you're gonna die with your knees bent? 
DEAN C'mon, Percy, give us a hand. 
Laughing, Percy picks up the pants. They proceed to help Billy into them one leg at a time... 
CUT TO: 
INT. E BLOCK TOILET - DAY 
Paul is trying to piss. Except for a few drops hitting the bowl, excruciating pain seems to be the only result. He gives up, grabs a towel, wipes the sweat from his feverish face... 
INT. E BLOCK - DAY 
...and steps gingerly from the toilet. Del's watching. 
DEL Don' look so good, boss. Look like you runnin' you a fever. 
Paul shoots him a baleful look--no kidding. Another voice calls softly from further down the Mile: 
COFFEY (O.S.) Boss Edgecomb? Needs ta see you down here, boss. 
PAUL Got things to tend to just now, John Coffey. You be still in your cell now, y'hear? 
Coffey falls silent. Paul goes to the entrance door and peers through the viewing slot, anxious to have this over with... 
EXT. COLD MOUNTAIN PENITENTIARY - DAY 
The prison truck appears, swaying along the rutted road... 
IN THE TRUCK 
...while Billy Wharton stares at nothing, drool dripping from his slack mouth in long strings. 
INT. E BLOCK - DAY 
Paul watches the truck pull in. He draws away from the slot, proceeds toward the empty cell which used to be Bitterbuck's... 
ANGLE ON TRUCK 
The rear doors are swung open. Harry emerges. Dean and Percy are guiding Billy by the arm, helping him down... 
INSIDE E BLOCK 
Paul waits at the empty cell. ANGLE PANS TIGHT to Coffey at his bars, eyes widening in a blossoming of some nameless fear or dread. Something bad's coming. A whisper: 
COFFEY Careful. 
OUTSIDE E BLOCK 
Billy is brought to the door. Dean pulls his keys, starts to unlock it. We PUSH IN on Billy's face, where the tiniest trace of a smile is starting to grow... 
INSIDE E BLOCK 
...and Coffey's unease grows with it. he presses his face to the bars, his whispering becoming more urgent: 
COFFEY Careful. Careful. 
Paul hears him, glances back with a puzzled look. Coffey's gaze is directed at the door, which is being unlocked... 
THE DOOR 
...and opened. In that moment, the slack look on Billy's face gives way to a wild grin. A CRAZED SCREECH leaps from his throat, a cross between a rebel yell and a dog being tortured, freezing everybody's blood in their veins-- 
BILLY Yeeeeeeehaaaawwwwwwrooooo! 
--and he drops his wrist-chain down over Dean's head, jerks it tight, begins to strangle him. Dean lurches forward, Billy riding/propelling him through the door onto the Mile. 
Percy stands frozen in the doorway, stunned. Harry shoves him aside and jumps on Billy from behind, trying to get him off Dean. Dean is choking, turning purple. 
Paul rushes from the cell to join the fray. Billy whirls, delivering a stunning kick to Paul's groin. Paul's bladder pain goes nuclear--he falls back in agony, clutching himself and sucking air through his teeth, unable even to scream. 
Billy rams an elbow into Harry's face, knocks him sprawling on the desk, screaming and laughing and howling all the while: 
BILLY WHOOOEE, BOYS! AIN'T THIS A PARTY, NOW? IS IT, OR WHAT? 
Paul forces himself to his feet, pulls his revolver, draws down on Billy... 
PAUL LET HIM GO! 
...but Billy jerks Dean around, using him as a shield... 
BILLY G'WAN, SHOOT! SEE WHO YA HIT! 
Dean is choking, dying. Paul is shifting his aim, trying for a clear shot, not getting one. Percy's still just inside the doorway, pressed against the wall with fear... 
PAUL HIT HIM, PERCY! GODDAMN IT, HIT HIM! 
BILLY C'MON, PERCY, HIT ME! HIT ME, YOU LIMP NOODLE, HIT ME! YEEHAWWW! 
...and suddenly a hand comes in, grabs the hickory stick out of Percy's grasp, raises it high-- 
--it's Brutal coming through the door. He swings the baton and lands an awesome blow to Billy's head--THUMP! The force of it spins Billy off his feet and slams him flat on his back. 
Dean crawls away, gulping ragged breaths of air. Amazingly, Billy's still conscious--he looks up at Brutal and laughs: 
BILLY Big fucker. Snuck up on me. No fair. 
Still laughing, he makes another grab at Dean. Brutal whacks him again, turning his lights out for good. Brutal drops to Dean's side, helping him hack air back into his lungs: 
Paul comes home from work, still looking numb about the whole thing. He drifts to the kitchen door. Jan's at the counter, slicing vegetables for dinner. She glances at him. 
JAN Hi, honey. How are you feeling? 
PAUL Um...not too bad. 
She turns back. Paul's eyes drift down to admire her ass. 
JAN What did the doctor say? 
No response. He's too busy staring. She turns again--he glances hastily up. 
PAUL Oh, you know doctors. Gobble-de- gook mostly. 
She turns back, keeps working. He crosses the room, eyeing her ass all the way...and surprised her by pressing up against her from behind, running his hands along her hips. 
JAN Paul? What are you doing? 
He starts laying kisses on the back of her neck, giving her pleasant shivers, murmuring: 
PAUL What's it feel like? 
JAN I know what it feels like...it feels great...but...Paul... 
He's getting her breathless. She turns into his arms and they get into some passionate kissing. It's not too long before they're frantically peeling each other's clothes off... 
INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 
...and we find them having a wild tumble in the sheets, both moaning and groaning, sweating and panting. She pushes him flat on the bed, pauses to catch her breath... 
JAN Those must've been some pills. 
...and they keep going, rutting like crazed weasels... 
EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT 
...as their moans go drifting into the night... 
FADE TO: 
SAME ANGLE AS ABOVE - DAWN 
...and they're still moaning up there as the sun creeps up. 
INT. BEDROOM - MORNING 
Jan falls back, exhausted after the latest go-round. She catches her breath, looks over at Paul, and finally: 
JAN Paul? Not that I'm complaining. But we haven't gone four times in one night since we were nineteen. (off his look) You wanna tell me just what the hell's going on? 
PAUL Well...thing is...I never actually got to the doctor yesterday... 
She gives him a look--oh? 
CUT TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING 
Paul is on the phone: 
PAUL Brutal? Listen...I'm thinking of taking the morning off sick. You cover the fort for me? (beat) That's swell. Thanks. Yeah, I'm sure I'll feel better. Okay. 
He hangs up, turns to Jan. 
JAN You sure you ought to do this? 
PAUL I'm not sure what I'm sure of. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ROAD TO TEFTON - DAY 
Paul's model T comes putt-putting up the road past a sign: "Trapingus County Welcomes You." 
EXT. HOUSE IN TEFTON - BACK PORCH - DAY 
BURT HAMMERSMITH, public defender for Trapingus County, sits with a cold soda and a magazine, watching his TWO CHILDREN playing on a swing at the far end of the backyard. The screen door opens and CYNTHIA HAMMERSMITH ushers Paul out. 
CYNTHIA I offer you a cold drink? 
PAUL Yes, ma'am, a cold drink would be fine. Thank you. 
She goes back inside. Burt rises. 
PAUL Mr. Hammersmith. Your office said I'd find you at home today. I hope I'm not troubling you. 
BURT That depends, Mr.--? 
PAUL Paul Edgecomb. I'm the E Block superintendant at Cold Mountain. 
BURT The Green Mile. I've heard of it. Lost a few clients your way. 
PAUL That's why I'm here. I'd like to ask you about one of them. 
Burt settles back down, motions "please sit". 
BURT Which client? Now you got my curiosity aroused. 
PAUL John Coffey. 
BURT Ah, Coffey. He causing you problems? 
COFFEY I'm smelling me some cornbread. 
Paul speaks softly so the others can't hear: 
PAUL It's from my missus. She wanted to thank you. 
Coffey nods thoughtfully, absorbing this notion. Then: 
COFFEY Thank me for what? 
PAUL You know. For helping me. 
COFFEY Helping you with what? 
Paul motions discreetly to his crotch. 
COFFEY Ohhh. (beat) Was your missus pleased? 
PAUL Several times. 
Paul hands him the bundle through the bars. Coffey takes it, uncovers the cornbread reverently, gazes back up. 
COFFEY This all for me? 
Paul nods. Across the way, Del is pressing his face longingly through the bars while Mr. Jingles crawls on his shoulder. 
DEL Oh my. John, I can smell it from here. I surely can. 
COFFEY (looks to Paul) Can I give some to Del? 
PAUL It's yours, John. You do with it as you please. 
John carefully scoops a big chunk of cornbread out with his enormous hand, holds it through the bars to Paul. 
COFFEY Here's for Del and Mr. Jingles then. 
BILLY Hey! What about me? I'm'a get some too, ain't I 
Coffey looks to Paul--do I have to? 
PAUL It's yours, John. As you please. 
COFFEY Well. Fine. I think I'll keep the rest, then. 
He smiles like a big kid, digging in with his fingers. Paul crosses the Mile to Del's cell, hands him his share. 
PAUL Courtesy of the gentleman across the way. 
DEL Oh, John. So very fine of you. So very kind. Mr. Jingles t'ank you. 
COFFEY (mouth full) ...wel'cm... 
BILLY Hey! What about me? Don't you hold out on me, ya big dummy nigger! 
Paul's temper flares--he steps to Billy's cell. 
PAUL You'll keep a civil tongue on my block. 
Beat. Billy spits in Paul's face and follows it up with a big grin--what are you gonna do about that? Paul is seething as he wipes the spit off, but keeps his temper where it belongs. 
PAUL You get that one for free. But that's the last one. 
Paul walks away. Billy laughs, hollering after him: 
BILLY That's it? Just that little bitty one? Guess I'll have to pay out for the rest, huh? 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. E BLOCK - DAY 
Harry is walking the Mile, doing a cell check and jotting on a clipboard. He pauses, making a notation... 
...and a long stream of piss hits his leg. Billy's at his bars, peeing on him. Harry jumps back, stunned. Billy howls with laughter, hosing his aim wildly from side to side. 
BILLY Yeehaaw! Good shot, weren't it? Oh, the look on your face! 
Paul and Brutal come running. Harry's just flabbergasted: 
HARRY You believe this? Son of a bitch pissed on me! 
BILLY Hey, d'jall like that? I'm currently cooking some turds t'go with it! Nice soft ones! I'll have 'em out t'yall tomorrow! 
Paul stays calm, turns to Brutal, nods at the restraint room. 
PAUL We've been looking to clear that room out anyway. 
TIMECUT: 
A STREAM OF GUARDS comes toting the last of the restraint room stuff past Billy's cell while he heckles them from the bars... 
BILLY Hey! Whassit now, movin' day? Y'all wanna come in and dust a little? Y'can shine my knob for me while yer at it! 
...and he pauses as Paul and Brutal step to the bars. Paul has a canvas straitjacket. Brutal pulls his nightstick. 
BILLY You can come in here on your legs, but you'll go out on your backs, Billy the Kid guarantee ya that. (motions to Brutal) C'mon, fuckstick. No sneakin' up on me this time. We'll go man to man, see who's the better fel-- 
Brutal unlocks the cell--and sidesteps, revealing Harry pointing a fire hose. The hose erupts, driving Billy across the cell with bone-jarring force. They batter him half- senseless, then cut the water. Billy collapses in a heap. 
Paul and Brutal drag him semi-conscious from his cell and get the straitjacket on him. He comes around as they draw the straps tight and pull him to his feet. 
PAUL C'mon, Wild Bill. Little walky walky. 
EARL Been sweepin' floors here ten years, never had to wear no damn tie before. 
BILL You're a V.I.P. today, Earl, so just shut up. 
A KNOCK at the door. Everybody takes a seat. Del is ushered in by Brutal. Del faces his audience, puts his hands to his chest in a "thank you" gesture worthy of Lillie Langtry before her adoring public, then announces grandly: 
DEL Messieurs et mesdames! Bienvenue au cirque de mousie! 
INT. EXECUTION CHAMBER - DAY 
The steel cap is lowered over Toot's head, the straps tightened. TILT UP to Percy as: 
PERCY Roll on two. 
Behind his partition, Van Hay mimes flipping the switch. 
VAN HAY That's that. 
A pause. Percy looks anxiously to Paul, who's trading glances with the other guards. Finally: 
PAUL Very good. Very professional. 
Percy smiles. Harry and Dean step up, slapping his back and shaking his hand... 
INT. E BLOCK - DAY 
...and they're still chatting a short time later, waiting for Del's return. Percy actually looks happy for a change, feeling genuinely accepted for the first time... 
Billy is watching from his cell. Just watching. 
The door opens. Del returns with Mr. Jingles on his shoulder, escorted by Brutal. Brutal is toting the cigar box and spool like a magician's assistant carrying the boss' props. 
PAUL Well? 
DEL They love Mr. Jingles! They laugh and cheer and clap they hands! 
PERCY Well, that's just aces. Pop back in your cell, old-timer. 
The generosity of Percy's tone catches Del completely off guard. Del gives him a look of almost comical mistrust... 
...and the old Percy comes back. He bares his teeth in a mock snarl and curls his fingers as if to grab Del. It's a joke, but Del doesn't know that--he jerks back in fear and trips over Brutal's big feet. Del goes down hard, hitting the linoleum with the back of his head. Mr. Jingles jumps clear, goes squeaking down the Mile. Del sits up, painfully clutching his head. Brutal helps him up... 
BRUTAL Percy, you shit. 
...and moves him toward his cell. Percy is actually moved to apologize--he starts after them with a half-laugh, drifting much too close to Wild Bill's side of the Mile... 
PERCY Del! Hey, you numb wit, I didn't mean nothin' by it! You all ri-- 
...and Wild Bill's arms thrust out, grabbing Percy and slamming him back against the bars with an arm around his throat. Percy squeals like a pig in a slaughter-chute, thinking he's gonna die. The guards scramble, drawing their clubs--as Billy strokes Percy's hair and whispers in his ear: 
BILLY Ain't you sweet. Soft. Like a girl. I druther fuck your asshole than your sister's pussy, I think. 
Billy kisses Percy's ear--and his hand drops down to squeeze Percy's crotch. Paul pulls his sidearm, taking aim... 
PAUL Wharton! 
...and Billy lets go, stepping back with his hands raised, laughing. Percy darts across the Mile in terror and cringes against the cell opposite, breathing so loud and fast it almost sounds like sobbing. 
BILLY I let 'im go, I'us just playin' and I let 'im go! Never hurt a hair on his purty head! (grins at Percy) Your noodle ain't limp at all, loverboy! I think you sweet on ol' Billy the Kid... (sniffs his fingers) ...oooh, but smell you. 
Down at his cell, Del starts laughing shrilly. Everybody else starts to realize it, including Percy himself...he looks down, sees the huge dark stain spreading at his crotch. 
DEL Lookit, he done piss his pants! Look what the big man done! He bus' other people wid 'is stick, mais oui some mauvais homme, but someone touch him, he make water in his pants jus' like a baby! 
Percy just stares. Brutal shoves Delacroix into his cell. 
BRUTAL Shut up, Del. 
Paul steps to Percy, puts a hand on his shoulder. Percy shakes his hand off, looks around at their faces, whispers: 
PERCY You talk about this to anyone, I'll get you all fired. I swear that to God. 
PAUL What happens on the Mile, stays on the Mile. Always has. 
The men nod solemnly. Nobody's going to talk about this. Percy looks at Delacroix still snorting in his cell, points at him. 
PERCY You keep laughing, you French- fried faggot. You just keep laughing. 
Del falls silent. Percy turns and storms away as we 
FADE TO BLACK 
IN BLACKNESS, A TITLE CARD APPEARS: 
"The Bad Death of Eduard Delacroix" 
CUT TO: 
INT. DEL'S CELL - DAY 
Paul is sitting with Delacroix. Brutal is leaning against the bars. Del is throwing the spool. Mr. Jingles is fetching it. 
The silence is thick. Just the clack-clatter of the spool, and the skitter skitter of tiny mouse paws on concrete. It's getting on Paul's nerves in a big way. Softly: 
PAUL What about Dean? He's got a little boy would love a pet mouse, I bet. 
Del looks horrified at the thought. 
DEL How could a boy be trust wid Mr. Jingles? Maybe forget to feed him. And how he keep up wid his trainin', just a boy, n'est-ce pas? 
Del tosses the spool again--clack-clatter, skitter-skitter. 
PERCY Don't start in on me. It was just a mouse. Never belonged here in the first place. 
PAUL The mouse is fine. Just fine. You're no better at mouse-killing than anything else around here. 
PERCY You expect me to believe that? I heard the goddamn thing crunch. 
Paul steps closer, angry as we've ever seen him: 
PAUL Aren't you glad Mr. Jingles is okay? After all our talks about how we should keep the prisoners calm? Aren't you relieved? 
PERCY What kind of game is this? 
PAUL No game. See for yourself. 
Beat. Percy stalks past them, heads out onto the Mile. Paul and Brutal just wait, saying nothing. Brutal picks up the rag left by Percy, resumes polishing chores on Old Sparky. Paul stretches, cracks his neck. The silence heavy... 
...until Percy reappears. 
PERCY You switched them! You switched them somehow, you bastards! 
BRUTAL I always keep a spare mouse in my wallet for occasions such as this. 
PERCY You're playing with me, the both of you! Just who the hell do you think you are-- 
Brutal grabs him , slams him bodily into the electric chair. Paul bends close, gets right in Percy's face. 
PAUL We're the people you work with, Percy, but not for long. I want your word. 
PERCY My word? 
PAUL I put you out front for Del, you put in your transfer to Briar Ridge the very next day. 
PERCY What if I just call up certain people and tell them you're harassing me? Bullying me? 
PAUL Go ahead. I promise you'll leave your share of blood on the floor. 
PERCY Over a mouse? You think anyone's gonna give two shits? 
PAUL No. But four men will swear you stood by while Wild Bill tried to strangle Dean to death. About that people will care, Percy. Even your uncle the governor will care. 
BRUTAL Thing like that goes in your work record. Work record can follow a man around a long, long time. 
Percy looks from one man to another, knowing he's trapped. 
PAUL I put you out front, you put in your transfer. That's the deal. 
Percy thinks it over, nods. He tries to get up, but Paul keep him pinned...and pointedly offer his hand. 
PAUL You make a promise to a man, you shake his hand. 
Percy hesitates, shakes Paul's hand... 
HIGH WIDE ANGLE OF EXECUTION CHAMBER 
...and Paul pulls him out of the electric chair as we 
DISSOLVE TO: 
SAME ANGLE AS ABOVE - NEXT NIGHT 
Witnesses are trickling in, filling the seats. A storm is brewing, sending FLASHES OF LIGHTNING across the floors. 
INT. DEL'S CELL - NIGHT 
Del sits with Mr. Jingles in his lap, stroking the mouse between the ears. Paul, Brutal, and Harry appear at the bars. 
DEL Hey, boys. Say hi, Mr. Jingles. 
PAUL Eduard Delacroix, will you step forward? 
DEL Boss Edgecomb? 
PAUL Yes, Del? 
DEL Don' let nothin' happen to Mr. Jingles, okay? 
Paul nods--I promise. Del rises, steps to Paul. 
DEL Here, take him. 
Del lifts his hand. Mr. Jingles steps off onto Paul's shoulder with no hesitation. Gently: 
PAUL Del. I can't have a mouse on my shoulder while...you know. 
COFFEY I'll take him, boss. Jus' for now. If Del don' mind. 
DEL Yeah, you take 'im, John. Take him til' dis foolishment done--bien! (to Paul and Brutal) After, you take him down to Florida? To dat Mouseville? 
BRUTAL We'll do it together, most likely. Maybe take a little vacation time. 
Paul moves to Coffey's cell. The mouse skitters off Paul's shoulder onto Coffey's hand. 
DEL People pay a dime apiece to see him. Two cents for the kiddies. Ain't dat right, Boss Howell? 
BRUTAL That's right, Del. 
DEL You a good man, Boss Howell. You too, Boss Edgecomb. Wish I could'a met you bot' someplace else. 
Del gives Mr. Jingles one last look, starts to cry. 
DEL Au revoir, mon ami. Je t'aime, mon petit. 
PAUL No water! No water! You crazy? 
Harry backs off with a look of dazed understanding--you don't throw water on a man getting juiced. Right. He drops the bucket, races to get the chemical fire extinguisher instead. 
The flaming mask peels away, revealing Del's charring face. His eyeballs are misshapen globs of burning white jelly blown out of their sockets. The ATTENDING DOCTOR faints dead away. 
Pandemonium now in the room. People shouting and hurrying to exit, chairs falling over, women screaming: 
FAT LADY Stop it, stop it, oh can't you see he's had enough? 
Hal grabs Paul by the shoulder, spins him around. 
HAL Why don't you shut it down? 
PAUL He's still alive! You want me to shut down while he's still alive? 
Hal is horrified at the thought. Del is jittering and screaming, rocking from side to side, smoke pouring from his nostrils and mouth, his tongue sizzling purple-black. 
The witnesses are crowding and shoving to get out, but the back door is locked. All they can do is cluster there. 
Paul sees Percy with his head turned away. He grabs him, forces his head around. 
PAUL You watch, you son of a bitch! 
Harry steps up, the extinguisher in his hands. Waiting. Del finally slumps over. He still vibrating, but now it's just the effect of current flowing through his body. 
PAUL Kill it! 
Van Hay kills the current. The HUMMING DIES. Brutal grabs the extinguisher from Harry, shoves it into Percy's hands. 
BRUTAL You do it. You're running the show, ain't you? 
Percy, sick and dazed, aims the extinguisher and hoses the smoking corpse. Hal is near the back, calming the crowd: 
HAL It's all right, folks, it's all under control. Just a power surge from the storm, that's all, nothing to worry about... 
PAUL Dean, get doc's stethoscope. 
Dean drops to the doctor's bag, digs through it, hands up the stethoscope. Paul plugs them into his ears. People are moaning and sobbing at the back of the room: 
MAN Oh my God! Is it always like this? Why didn't somebody tell me? I never would have come! 
Paul wipes some foam away from Delacroix's chest, places the stethoscope pad to the raw flesh. He nods to Brutal--it's over. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ACCESS TUNNEL - NIGHT 
Paul and the others bring the stretcher down, lay the corpse on the gurney. Percy starts stammering excuses: 
PERCY I didn't know the sponge was supposed to be wet-- 
Brutal hauls off and slugs him. A scuffle ensues as the others grab Brutal and pull him off. 
PAUL Brutal, no! 
BRUTAL What do you mean, no? How can you say no? You saw what he did! 
PAUL Delacroix's dead, nothing can change that, and Percy's not worth it! 
BRUTAL So he just gets away with it? Is that how it works? 
Hal comes lunging down the stairs, furious: 
HAL What the fuck was that? Jesus Christ, three witnesses puked all over the floor up there! And the smell! I got Van Hay to open both doors, but that smell won't come out for five damn years, that's what I'm betting! And that asshole Wharton is singing about it! I can hear him! 
PAUL (quietly) Can he carry a tune, Hal? 
This pulls the plug on the moment--Hal snorts, triggering laughter among the men, a wild release of tension and fear. Everybody starts feeling a bit saner again as it dies down: 
HAL Okay, boys. Okay. Now what the hell happened? 
All eyes go to Percy. Hal turns, sees Percy's bloody lip. 
HAL Percy? Something to say? 
PERCY I didn't know the sponge was supposed to be wet. 
Beat. A look of utter contempt from Hal. 
HAL How many years you spend pissing on the toilet seat before somebody told you to put it up? 
PAUL Percy fucked up, Hal. Pure and simple. 
HAL Is that your official position? 
PAUL Don't you think it should be? 
Hal considers it, nods. 
PAUL He'll be putting in a transfer request to Briar Ridge tomorrow. Moving on to bigger and better things. Isn't that right, Percy? 
Percy nods. Hal steps close, gives him a tight, icy smile. 
HAL You're a little asshole, and I don't like you a bit. (off Percy's look) Have that transfer request on my desk first thing. 
Hal heads back up the stairs. Brutal shoves Percy aside and wheels Delacroix's body down the tunnel. 
INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT 
Paul returns to find Wild Bill making up a song in his cell: 
PERCY Please, Paul. Don't put me in with Wild Bill. Please. 
PAUL You would think that. 
Paul gives him a hard, angry shove... 
INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT 
...and they bring him down the Mile to the restraint room door. Brutal takes Percy's holster and baton. 
BRUTAL You'll get 'em back, don't worry. 
PERCY That's more than I can say about your jobs. All your jobs! You can't do this to me! You can't! 
Paul steps forward with a roll of strapping tape. 
PAUL Let you in on a little secret. We can and we are. 
He slaps the tape over Percy's mouth and shoves him back into the restraint room. Percy stands breathing heavily through his nose, making muffled mmmmph-mmmph! sounds under the tape. 
PAUL You're going to have a few hours of quiet time now, so you can reflect on what you did to Del. 
BRUTAL (grins) If you get lonely, think about Olive Oyl... (thrusting his hips) ...uk-uk-uk-uk! 
And they slam the door, shutting Percy into darkness. 
A WALL-MOUNTED GUN SAFE 
is unlocked, shotguns pulled out. The men load up, heading down the Mile as: 
PAUL One more time--what do you say if somebody comes by? 
DEAN Coffey got upset, so we put him in the restraint room. They hear any noise, they'll think it's him. 
They come to Coffey's cell. 
COFFEY We goan for the ride now? 
PAUL That's right. 
The cell is unlocked. Coffey emerges. Paul motions them along, still grilling Dean: 
PAUL What about us? 
DEAN You're over in Admin, going over Del's file. Brutal and Harry are in the laundry doing their wash-- 
A skinny white arm suddenly shoots out from Wild Bill's cell and grabs Coffey by the wrist. The men gasp, shocked to see Billy on his feet, grinning and weaving like a punch-drunk. 
Coffey's reaction is beyond simple surprise; he's actually trembling at Billy's touch as if some electrical circuit were engaged. His eyes are wide and horrified, as if he'd just put his hand in a basket full of snakes. He tries to pull away, but Billy has him tight, that mysterious circuit blazing. 
BILLY (slurring wildly) Where you fink you're goin'? 
Coffey responds softly, with utmost horror: 
COFFEY You're a bad man. 
BILLY S'right, nigger. Bad as you'd want. 
Paul plucks Billy's hand off Coffey's arm--and Coffey flinches back as the circuit is broken. 
BILLY Whooeee. Whole room's spinning. Like I'm shit-ass drunk. I have me some shine or what? 
He turns and staggers back to his bunk, muttering all the way: 
BILLY Niggers oughtta have they own 'lectric chair. White man oughtn't havta sit in no nigger 'lectric chair, nossir... 
He goes face-first onto his bunk. Coffey is still staring. 
COFFEY He's a bad man. 
INT. EXECUTION CHAMBER - NIGHT 
Coffey is brought in...and freezes in horror at the sight of Old Sparky. A whisper: 
COFFEY They're still in there. Pieces of them, still in there. I hear them screaming. 
All eyes go to the electric chair. It sits shrouded in shadow like an ominous throne. Never before has this place felt so haunted to the men. It makes the hairs on the neck stand up. 
PAUL John, come along! Right now, y'hear? C'mon! Toward that door! 
Coffey finally responds, pulling away... 
INT. E BLOCK ACCESS TUNNEL - NIGHT 
...and they come down the steps. They realize Coffey will have to stoop all the way down the tunnel. Paul pats the gurney. 
PAUL Lie down on this. (off Coffey's look) It'll be easier for you and no harder for us. 
Coffey eases carefully onto the gurney, lying on his back. His knees hang over the edge and his toes touch the ground, but it works. They push him along, traversing the pools of light. 
Coffey actually starts to smile. He reaches out his arms, fingertips touching the tunnel walls as they go by. 
COFFEY Say. This is fun. 
EXT. PRISON WALL - NIGHT 
A massive iron door SQUEALS open onto a little-used fenced enclosure. Paul and the others bring Coffey up from the tunnel below, emerging into the night. Coffey's breath catches as he gazes wondrously up at the stars, pointing: 
COFFEY Look, boss! It's Cassie, the lady in the rocking chair! 
PAUL Shhh. John, you have to be quiet now. 
Paul and Brutal walk to the front door as the lights inside the house keep clicking on. The last one finally comes on over the stoop, the front door opens a crack...and the twin barrels of a shotgun poke out into the night. 
HAL Who the hell goes there at two- thirty in the goddamn morning? 
PAUL Hal, it's us! It's Paul and Brutal--it's us! 
The door swings wider, revealing Hal's face gaunt and haggard in the yellow porch light, stunned to see them: 
HAL Paul, what are you doing here at this hour? Jesus, it's not a lockdown, is it? Or a riot? 
PAUL Hal, God's sakes, take your finger off the trigger... 
Hal doesn't, aiming past them at the truck in the yard. 
HAL Are you hostages? Who's out there? Who's by that truck? 
Coffey steps into the glare of headlights with Harry tugging on his arm, trying to hold him back. Hal cocks both hammers. 
HAL John Coffey! Halt! Halt right there or I shoot! 
His aim wavers as a woman's voice comes from upstairs: 
MELINDA (O.S.) Hal? Who are you talking to, you fucking cocksucker? 
A frozen moment. Hal mortified. Paul gives him a look--is that Melinda? 
Hal's shotgun shifts back to Coffey--but Paul steps in front of the muzzle. 
PAUL No one's hurt. We're here to help. 
HAL Help what? I don't understand. Is this a prison break? 
PAUL I can't explain what it is. You just have to trust me. 
Coffey comes up the steps, brushes Paul aside, stops before the warden. Hal blinks, his thoughts suddenly fuzzy--it's that benign hypnotic effect Coffey has. 
HAL What do you...want? 
MELINDA Hal! Make them go away! No salesmen in the middle of the night! No Fuller brushes! No French knickers with come in the crotch! Tell them to take a flying fuck in a rolling d...d... 
We hear the sound of GLASS BREAKING, then she begins to sob. 
COFFEY (a whisper) Just to help. Just to help, boss, that's all. 
HAL You can't. No one can. 
Coffey pulls the shotgun gently from Hal's grasp, hands it to Paul. Coffey moves past Hal into the house... 
INT. HOUSE - NIGHT 
...and comes up the hallway toward the stairs. 
HAL Don't you go up there! Don't you do it! 
COFFEY Boss, you just be quiet now and let me be. 
Coffey mounts the stairs with the others at his heels, heading up toward that quavering voice: 
MELINDA (O.S.) Stay out of here! Whoever you are, just stay out! I'm not dressed for visitors, you rat's asshole! 
INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Coffey enters, trailed by the others. Paul pauses, horrified. 
The woman propped in bed barely resembles Melinda Moores anymore--she looks made up like a Halloween witch, her livid skin hanging in a loose trail of wrinkles, one corner of her mouth twisted. Yellowish bile stains her chin and the front of her nightgown. Her hair has gone white and straw-like, her eyes glowering at Coffey with lively, irrational interest: 
MELINDA Oh, so big! Pull down your pants! Let's have a look! 
Hal groans with despair. Coffey just stands there for a moment, watching her from a distance, then approaches the bed... 
MELINDA Don't come near me, pigfucker. 
...but as he draws closer, a change occurs. Her features soften, her eyes become more sane and aware. 
MELINDA Why do you have so many scars? Who hurt you so badly? 
COFFEY Don't hardly remember, ma'am. 
Coffey sits on the edge of the bed. The lights seem to flare hotter and brighter. Tears are forming in Melinda's eyes. 
MELINDA What's your name? 
COFFEY John Coffey, ma'am. Like the drink, only not spelt the same. 
She lays back, staring at him with shining fascination. The world seems to be slowing down, growing very still indeed... 
...and he starts bending slowly toward her. 
COFFEY Ma'am? 
MELINDA Yes, John Coffey? 
COFFEY I see it. I see it. 
He comes closer...closer still... 
COFFEY You be still now. You be so quiet and so still. 
He brushes her forehead with his lips...the gentlest whisper of a kiss...then moves his mouth down to hers. For a moment we can see one of her eyes staring past him, filling with an expression of surprise... 
...and then her face is lost to view as Coffey puts his lips on hers. We hear a soft whistling sound as he begins inhaling the air deeply from her lungs. Something hot and glowing starts passing between them, drawn on his breath... 
IN BLACKNESS, A TITLE CARD APPEARS: 
"Coffey on the Mile" 
CUT TO: 
INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT 
Dean starts babbling with relief as they return: 
DEAN Am I glad to see you! You were gone so long! Wild Bill's making noises like he's gonna wake up... (notices Coffey) What the hell's wrong with him? 
BRUTAL He's hurting, Dean. Hurting bad. 
Dean jumps in, helps them steer Coffey into his cell. 
PAUL John, we're gonna set you on your bunk now. Ready? 
Coffey nods, sits heavily on the bunk. He lowers his head, breath rasping like a rusted hinge. The guards step out. 
DEAN What about Mrs. Moores? Was it like the mouse? Was it a...you know...a miracle? 
PAUL Yes. Yes it was. 
Paul scans their faces. Smiles are traded. An exultant beat. 
HARRY Damn. I think we got away with it. 
BRUTAL We still gotta convince a certain somebody to keep his trap shut. 
PAUL Get his stuff. 
Dean hurries off to retrieve Percy's holster and baton. Brutal unlocks the restraint room door, swings it open. Percy is revealed sitting against the wall, glaring, his mouth still taped. Paul crouches down. Brutal joins him. 
PAUL I want to talk, not shout. I take the tape off, you gonna be calm. 
Percy nods. Paul takes hold of the tape, preparing to yank. 
BRUTAL My mother always said if you do it fast, it won't hurt so much. 
Paul rips the tape off. Percy's eyes water with pain. 
BRUTAL I guess she was wrong. 
PERCY Get me out of this nut-coat. 
PAUL In a minute. 
PERCY Now! Now! Right n-- 
Paul slaps him hard, knocks him sideways. Percy looks up, blinking in surprise. Paul grabs him, yanks him back up. 
PAUL You shut up and listen. You deserved to be punished for what you did to Del. You'll accept it like a man, or we'll make you sorry you were ever born. We'll tell people how you sabotaged Del's execution-- 
PERCY Sabotaged! 
PAUL --and how you pissed yourself like a frightened little girl. Yes, we'll talk, that's a given--but, Percy, mind me now...we'll also see you beaten within an inch of your life. 
Percy blinks, unable to grasp that. 
PAUL We know people, too, are you so foolish you don't realize that? People with friends and loved ones doing time in this prison. People who'd be happy to amputate you nose or your penis just so someone they care about could get an extra three hours in the exercise yard every week. (off Percy's look) Let bygones be bygones. Nothing's hurt so far but your pride...and nobody need ever know about that except the people in this room. 
BRUTAL What happens on the Mile, stays on the Mile. Always has. 
A long pause. Softly: 
PERCY May I be let out of this coat now? 
They pull him to his feet, undo the straps. He shrugs out of the straitjacket and adjusts his clothes, trying to maintain a shred of dignity. 
PERCY My things? 
Dean hands them over. Percy smooths his hair and puts his hat on, starts strapping on his holster belt. 
PAUL Think it over, Percy. 
PERCY Oh, I intend to. I intend to think about it very hard. Starting right now. 
Percy exits the restraint room. Brutal whispers to Paul: 
BRUTAL He'll talk. Sooner or later. 
Paul nods with weary resignation--yeah, I know. 
ON THE MILE 
Percy pauses near Coffey's cell, careless as always, getting his holster buckled--and a massive black arm grabs him through the bars. His SCREAM brings Paul and the others from the restraint room. 
Coffey's face is pressed so tight between his bars it looks like he's trying to push his head through. He draws his lips back, baring his teeth in an awful sneer... 
Percy whacks him with his baton. Coffey barely seems to feel it. He curls his free hand around the back of Percy's head, pulling him ever closer... 
...and Percy's screams are muffled as their mouths come together. Coffey begins exhaling as if he'd held his breath for hours. Percy jerks like a fish on a hook, but can't get away. The men jump in, try to pry Percy loose, hollering for Coffey to let him go. 
The black "insects" are flowing from Coffey to Percy, swirling into his mouth, up his nose, down his throat. 
Several lightbulbs explode in their steel cages up and down the Mile. Percy's baton drops from his nerveless fingers and clatters to the floor, never to be picked up again. 
And then Coffey steps back, rubbing his mouth as if he's tasted something bad. The color has returned to his skin. 
Percy, however, is ashen gray. His expression is blank as a sheet of paper, not a trace of awareness in his eyes. 
DEAN ...well, I dunno, he just snapped, I guess... 
HARRY ...s'right, one minute he's fine, the next--blammo... 
BRUTAL ...bastard grabbed him through the bars a few days back, scared the boy so bad he wet himself... 
Hal turns, sees: 
PERCY 
sits handcuffed on the floor of the Mile, eyes glassier than Wild Bill's. TWO COPS are trying to snap him out of it: 
COP #1 Son! Son! Can you hear me? 
COP #2 Speak up if you can hear us! We gotta ask you some questions! 
A MEDIC is raising Percy's eyelid with his thumb, shining a penlight, getting no reaction. 
MEDIC I think this boy's cheese slid off his cracker. 
HAL 
sees Paul, motions him aside to talk privately: 
HAL I'll cover you as much as I can, even if it mean my job, but I have to know. Does this have anything to do with what happened at my house? Does it, Paul? 
Paul looks Hal in the eye. As with Bitterbuck, the lie comes easy: 
PAUL No. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY 
TRACKING A PAIR OF FEET shuffling into the room in hospital slippers, escorted by TWO ORDERLIES. The patient is brought to a window. The orderlies turn to leave... 
...and we BOOM UP to reveal Percy, catatonic, staring out the same window where we met Wild Bill... 
EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY 
...and we WIDEN SLOWLY from Percy at the window to reveal his last stop in life. It's emblazoned on the gate: BRIAR RIDGE MENTAL HOSPITAL. He finally got that transfer. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. PAUL'S HOUSE - DUSK 
TIGHT ON PAUL as softly: 
PAUL It makes sense. I read the file. Hal even said it himself. Wharton rambled all over the state last few years, causing trouble. Hell, longer than that. Been at it since he was ten. Vandalism. Petty theft. Setting fires. 
ANGLE SHIFTS to include Jan, Brutal, Harry and Dean. They're in the brambly patch that borders the woods behind the house. The sun is setting, turning the horizon fiery. 
JAN You saw him. You actually saw this Wild Bill person take those girls. 
PAUL Their father hired him on for a few days last spring, help repair the barn. Cheap labor, just another drifter... 
BRUTAL Only not. 
PAUL Sick bastard came back a month later, just before dawn. Took the girls...did what he did. Coffey found them afterwards and tried to help. It was too late. 
JAN (absorbs this) Then you can stop it. The execution, I mean. Get Coffey a new trial. 
PAUL Based on what, honey? Some kind of magical vision I had? 
JAN Show this farmer--what's his name, Detterick?--show him a picture of Wild Bill. (off their looks) Why not? If Wharton was there...if the farmer can identify his picture and they know he was there... 
BRUTAL Him being there in May doesn't mean he came back and killed those girls in June. Even if he was committing other crimes. 
PAUL They got their killer as far as they're concerned. 
Hell, Coffey's own lawyer would come throw the switch if we let him. 
JAN Then lie. 
PAUL Lie? About what? 
JAN Tell them Wharton confessed to the crime. Brutus, you can back him up, say you heard it too. You can say that's what set Percy off. He shot Wharton because he couldn't stand thinking of what happened to those two little girls, it snapped his mind... (seeing their looks) ...what? What now? 
DEAN We never reported anything like that. We would've, too, everybody knows it. It's part of our job. 
BRUTAL Besides, confessing don't make it so. Slugs like Wild Bill lie about everything. Crimes they committed, women they had, even the weather. 
JAN But he was there! He painted their barn! He ate dinner with them! 
PAUL All the more reason he might take credit for the crime. He's gonna fry anyway, so why not boast? 
Jan stands thinking for a moment, then: 
JAN All right. Then you've got to get John Coffey out on your own. 
HARRY Ma'am? 
JAN You did it once, didn't you? Only this time, don't bring him back. 
Dean blinks, stunned by this notion. Gently: 
DEAN Ma'am, your son's grown up and moved away. My kids are just starting kindergarten. Will you be the one to explain to them why their daddy's in prison? 
JAN Work out a plan. Make it look like a real escape. 
HARRY Better be a plan an imbecile could dream up. Nobody'd believe it otherwise. 
CUT TO: 
TIGHT ON COFFEY'S FACE 
gazing with wide-eyed, open-mouthed wonder, the light of a motion picture projector flickering on his skin... 
INT  PRISON AUDITORIUM - NIGHT 
...while Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers dance up there on the big screen, images flowing in magical black and silver tone. 
FRED ASTAIRE (singing) Heaven, I'm in heaven...and my heart beats so that I can hardly speak... 
Paul and the men are scattered about in the otherwise empty auditorium, also watching. 
PROJECTION BOOTH 
Toot operates the projector, peering through the tiny window into the theater. He yawns, glances at his watch. Late. 
IN THE AUDITORIUM 
Fred and Ginger are now in the most passionate and graceful part of the dance. Irving Berlin's music swells. 
COFFEY 
can't believe what he's seeing. He's so excited his breath is caught in his throat. Softly: 
COFFEY Why, they's angels. Angels. Just like up in heaven... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT 
FOUR PAIRS OF FEET come marching up the Green Mile. 
ANGLE ON COFFEY 
Paul appears at the bars with Brutal, Harry, and Dean. Nothing is said. Coffey knows why they're here. He rises as Brutal unlocks the cell, slides the door open. Coffey steps out, looks around at their dazed and sad faces. 
COFFEY I be all right, fellas. This here's the hard part. I be all right in a little while. 
Paul indicates St. Christopher medal around John's neck: 
PAUL John, I should have that just for now. I'll give it back after. 
John lets him take the necklace. Paul pockets it. They start to walk the Mile as: 
COFFEY You know, I fell asleep this afternoon and had me a dream. I dreamed about Del's mouse. 
PAUL Did you, John? 
COFFEY I dreamed he got down to that place Boss Howell talked about, that Mouseville place. I dreamed there was kids, and how they laughed at his tricks! My! 
He laughs at the memory of it, then grows more serious: 
COFFEY I dreamed those two little blonde- headed girls were there. They 'us laughing, too. I put my arms around 'em and sat 'em on my knees, and there 'us no blood comin' outta their hair and they 'us fine. We all watch Mr. Jingles roll that spool, and how we did laugh. Fit to bus', we was. 
Behind them, Dean stifles a sob. 
PAUL'S INNER OFFICE 
Coffey kneels. Paul joins him, self-conscious and uncertain. 
PAUL What should we pray for, John? 
COFFEY Strength? 
Paul nods--strength it is. Dean surprises Brutal and Harry by also kneeling. Brutal and Harry hesitate...then join them. 
PAUL God, please help us finish what we've started, and please welcome this man, John Coffey--like the drink, but not spelled the same-- into heaven and give him peace. Please help us to see him off the best we can and let nothing go wrong. Amen. 
Paul starts to rise, but Coffey takes his hand. 
COFFEY I know a prayer I once heard. Can I say it? 
PAUL You go right ahead, John. Take all the time you need. 
Coffey closes his eyes, frowning in deep concentration. 
COFFEY Baby Jesus, meek and mild, pray for me... 
And Paul sees: 
Kathe and Cora Detterick kneeling together in the enclosed porch that night, just before their bedtime: 
KATHE AND CORA ...and every child. Be my strength, be my friend... 
And then the vision is gone as: 
COFFEY ...be with me until the end. Amen. 
Coffey rises, offers Paul his hand, helps him up. 
EXECUTION CHAMBER 
Full house tonight. Bill Dodge is waiting at Old Sparky. 
Silence as Coffey is led in, all eyes on him. Klaus and Marjorie Detterick are in the front row. She mutters: 
MARJORIE Die slow, you bastard. 
COFFEY 
It's late in the day as: 
PAUL That was the last execution I ever took part in. Just couldn't do it anymore after that. Brutal either. We both transferred out, took jobs with Boys' Correctional. (beat, nods) That was all right. Catch 'em young, that became my motto. Might even have done some good. 
ANGLE SHIFTS TO Elaine listening. Uncertain. 
PAUL You don't believe me. 
ELAINE I don't imagine you would lie to me, Paul. It's just that... 
PAUL ...It's quite a story. 
ELAINE Yes. Quite a story. (pause) One thing I don't understand. You said you and Jan had a grownup son in 1935. Is that right? (Paul nods) But if that's true... 
PAUL The math doesn't work, does it? 
She shakes her head. Paul thinks for a moment, comes to a decision. 
PAUL You feel up to a walk? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. GEORGIA PINES - DAY 
The rain has mostly stopped. Brad Dolan, back in street clothes, gets in his pickup truck and drives away... 
INT. NURSING HOME - DAY 
...while Paul and Elaine watch from a window. 
EXT. GEORGIA PINES - DAY 
This time, we see two red specks trudging slowly up the ridge toward the treeline. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. WOODS - DAY 
Paul brings Elaine along the wooded path into view of the storage shacks. They're both wearing ponchos. 
PAUL There. It's in there. 
ELAINE Paul? This thing you want to show me. Is it scary? 
PAUL Scary? No. Not really. 
He gives her a smile, offers his hand. She takes it. 
INT. SHACK - DAY 
We see Paul approach through the grimy window as before, this time bringing Elaine. ANGLE SHIFTS to the door as they arrive, creaking open on rusty hinges to reveal them. 
They enter. Elaine looks around at the musty nooks and crannies, wondering what they're doing here. Paul touchers arm, directs her attention: 
PAUL There. 
Elaine moves closer, sees it on the dusty floorboards: 
An old cigar box. 
For a moment, she doesn't know what to make of it. 
PAUL Hey. Wake up, old boy. Wake up. 
Elaine's breath catches in her throat... 
...as a pair of bright oilspot eyes peer over the edge of the cigar box. It's a mouse. His fur, once brown, is now all gray. 
ELAINE Paul? It isn't...it can't be... 
Paul gets down on the floor, holds out his hand. 
PAUL Come over here, boy. Come on over her and see this lady. 
The mouse tries several times to get over the side of the cigar box before he finally makes it. He comes to them, hobbling and crippled with arthritis. Paul pulls a slice of toast from his pocket, breaks off a small piece for the mouse. 
ELAINE That can't be Mr. Jingles. 
Paul says nothing, just pulls a spool from his pocket. Mr. Jingles might be old, but he's as obsessed as ever. He gets ready to fetch, eyes riveted to the spool. Softly: 
PAUL Messieurs et mesdames. Beinvenue au cirque du mousie. 
Paul tosses the spool. The mouse limps painfully after it. He reaches it, goes around...and has to lay down to catch his breath. Elaine starts forward, but Paul holds her back. 
After a moment, Mr. Jingles finds his feet again. He rises and starts nosing the spool back to Paul. 
ELAINE Oh, Paul. Don't make him do it again. I can't bear to watch. 
PAUL (softly) But he loves it so much. 
He glances around at the shack with a sad smile. 
PAUL This isn't exactly the Mouseville we had in mind...but we make do, don't we, old fella? 
BRAD (O.S.) As I live and breathe! 
They gasp and spin. Brad Dolan stands in the doorway. 
BRAD Fooled you, didn't I Got yourself a little love nest here, I see... 
He pauses, seeing Mr. Jingles. 
