HACKERS 
Written by 
Rafael Moreu 
SEATTLE 1988 
EXT. FRONT YARD.  DAY. 
Slow motion. Armed troops in black uniforms pour out of unmarked vans and swarm across a lawn in a middle class residential neighborhood. Yuppie neighbours look on in shock, confused. Two of the troops carry a battering ram to the front door of a white two-storey house. A leashed Rottweiler snarls and barks. In position, their comrades point M-16s into first-floor windows, ready to be ambushed. Pan into a window in the kitchen. An attractive woman in her thirties is making breakfast. 
Now, in regular motion, the battering ram breaks open the front door. The woman, startled, drops her spatula. 
INT. MURPHY RESIDENCE. DAY. 
WOMAN (screams) Oough! Ahhh! 
SECRET SERVICE AGENT (to others) Upstairs. 
Troops pour into the house. 
WOMAN What's going on? What's the matter? Who are you? 
The troops, and one or two trenchcoated agents, continue entering the house and heading upstairs, still with rifles ready. 
WOMAN Hey! 
Upstairs, crowded in the narrow hallway, the troops descend on a bedroom. 
WOMAN (off camera) Dade! Dade! 
AGENT Knock it down. 
The battering ram knocks down a bedroom door. 
INT. COURTROOM. 
The prosecutor, a woman of about forty, gives her closing argument blandly. She'd rather be somewhere else. 
PROSECUTOR The defendant, Dade Murphy, who calls himself "Zero Cool", has repeatedly committed criminal acts of a malicious nature. This defendant possesses a superior intelligence, which he uses to a destructive and antisocial end. His computer virus crashed one thousand five hundred and seven computer systems, including Wall Street trading systems, single handedly causing a seven point drop in the New York Stock Market. 
As she speaks, the camera pans across the court, panning down and stopping on the defendant: eleven year old Dade Murphy. 
Fast forward to the sentencing. 
JUDGE Dade Murphy, I hereby fine your family forty-five thousand dollars... 
The court gasps, Dade's father winces 
JUDGE ...and sentence you to probation, under which you are forbidden to own or operate a computer or touch tone telephone, until the day of your eighteenth birthday. 
Now Dade winces, in fact we almost expect him to cry. 
Opening credits roll to a backdrop of Dade and his family and lawyer fighting through a gaggle of journalists and photographers, in slow motion, and driving away. 
SEVEN YEARS LATER. 
Aboard a jetliner, Dade Murphy is staring blankly out the window, wearing headphones. Exterior view from the aircraft of approaching New York City. The view becomes a direct overhead of the buildings and streets of the city, which then metamorphoses (through animation) into chips and digital signals on a stylised computer board. The title logo. 
Dade's screen dissolves into: 
ACID BURN 
DADE Unbelievable. A hacker! 
Then the screen changes again: 
ACID BURN SEZ LEAVE B 4 U R EXPUNGED 
"The Outer Limits" suddenly flashes off. 
DADE Yeah, okay "Acid Burn", that's enough. 
Dade starts hacking. Apparently so does Acid Burn. The tape changer machines at OTV are swamped, sometimes fighting over the same tape. The program on TV keeps changing. 
The message comes up on Dade's computer screen: 
I WILL SWAT U LIKE THE FLY U R 
More dueling tape changers, more half second video clips. Another message. 
I WILL SNAP YOUR BACK LIKE A TOOTHPICK 
As the duel continues, Dade types back a taunt of his own: 
MESS WITH THE BEST DIE LIKE THE REST 
One last from Acid Burn: 
YOU ARE TERMINATED 
Then his own computer confirms for him that the connection is terminated. 
DADE Shit on me! 
Next morning. Mrs. Murphy is unpacking. Dade emerges from his room in a housecoat. He makes a beeline (dodging moving boxes) for the fridge. 
MRS. MURPHY Good morning. You unpack your stuff yet? 
DADE Mm-hmm. 
MRS. MURPHY Up all night again, huh? 
DADE Can this wait until both my eyes are open, please? 
Dade's mom picks up the phone, mocking a call to the building superintendent. 
MRS. MURPHY Can I cut the electricity to his room so he'll sleep normal hours? He's been playing with his computer all night for a solid week. (pause) Well yes, he could be playing with himself. Mmm hmm. Yes I'll ask. Dade, you like girls, don't you? 
DADE Well, yeah, I just haven't found one as charming as you yet. 
MRS. MURPHY You haven't been doing anything stupid, right, Dade? (louder) Right, Dade?! 
DADE Right, mom. And I'm still a virgin! 
Dade slams the bathroom door. Mrs. Murphy quickly checks his room. Dade is showering. 
MRS. MURPHY (angry, through the bathroom door) You hooked it up to the phone, didn't you? Dade! Turn the shower off! You screw up again and you won't get into college! 
DADE My... class. You mean I'm not in your class? 
KATE No, you're not in my class. 
Kate starts away. 
DADE Give me time! 
A guy in the halls notices Dade. 
GUY Hey, you new? 
DADE Yeah. 
GUY Tell him about the pool, Kate. 
DADE Pool? 
KATE Yeah, there's an Olympic size swimming pool up on the roof. Take the stairs over there. 
DADE Yeah! Sure. 
Kate starts away again. 
DADE Thanks! 
EXT. SCHOOL ROOFTOP. 
Dade enters, and lets the door slam behind him. Across the roof, a dozen or so geeky looking kids are looking over the edge, apparently trying to get someone's attention. One of them notices Dade. 
GEEK Hey! Hold the door! 
He's too late. The geeks look pretty angry. There is no pool. 
Dade (realizing he's been had) No pool. 
Dade tries the door but it's locked. He hammers it with his palm, furious. Above, thunder roars and it begins raining. 
INT. SCHOOL CORRIDOR. 
Dade is soaking wet, and trudges among his classmates leaving a muddy trail. A three-second video clip rolls through his mind: it is a screaming woman being strangled in an old movie. He walks past Kate, who giggles. 
KATE Oh my God! He found the pool. 
INT. SCHOOL COMPUTER LAB. 
The kids are all seated at computer workstations. Dade is hacking, the latino kid who was on the phone to Venezuela is running a demo involving dirty-dancing skeletons. 
TEACHER I'm Mr. Simpson. And I'm subbing for Ms. Bayliss who was arrested at the anti-fur rally. I know some of you kids got computers at home. But these are school property, people, and I don't want to see any gum stuck to 'em. Chapter 1. Designing graphical interface... 
Meanwhile, the latino kid notices that Dade has been looking up Kate Libby's school records. And hacking himself into her advanced English class. 
EXT. SCHOOL QUAD. 
It's after school, kids are heading home, Dade too. The latino kid notices Dade and catches up with him. 
KID So, um, what's your interest in Kate Libby, eh? Academic? Purely sexual? 
DADE Homicidal? 
CURTIS Is this kid bothering you, Kate? 
DADE Sorry, can I get some room here? 
CURTIS Yeah. (to Kate) Why don't you come up here? 
Kate obliges and joins Curtis.  Dade continues playing. He plays brilliantly. The game is a flashy 3-D high-speed chase game with lots of surprises. Dade loses, but his high score is about to come up. 
CURTIS He's good! 
Dade's score comes up. He's in the #1 position. Phreak is amazed. 
DADE (to Kate) Well, it looks like I'm on top. 
Kate, defeated, leaves. Curtis follows. 
PHREAK Congratulations. No one's ever beat her before. You just made an enemy for life. (to someone else) Boy meets world. Let's go? 
EXT. OUTSIDE CYBERDELIA. NIGHT. 
Kate and Curtis are sucking face, oblivious to the busy world around them. Dade and Phreak watch, more than a little disgusted. 
DADE Who's that? 
PHREAK Curtis. 
DADE And what's he do? 
PHREAK That's it, you're looking at it, he just looks slick all day. 
Kate and Curtis start to take off on Curtis' motorcycle. Kate and Dade make eye contact briefly. The motorcycle speeds off into the night. 
INT. DADE'S ROOM. 
The clock says it's 4:16. As the camera pans up to Dade, it changes to 4:17. Dade is hacking again. It's the school's administration system. Dade schedules a test of the school sprinkler system for 9:30am. 
INT. HIGH SCHOOL CORRIDIR. 
Dade stands alone in the hall, watching the time closely. Phreak rounds a corner and meets Dade. 
PHREAK What's up? 
Dade doesn't answer. He watches the time a couple of more seconds, then opens an umbrella. Immediately the fire sprinklers turn on. Phreak starts getting drenched. He realizes what is happening. 
PHREAK (amused and highly impressed) Oh my God. You... 
A bell rings and students pour out into the halls by the hundreds. They're all being showered on. A tall cheerleader bounces by Phreak, pushing her pom-pom in his face. 
PHREAK Way cool! (to Dade) You saw that? 
Dade nods in the affirmative. 
Kate walks up to Dade, also understanding what has happened. 
KATE What the hell is going on? 
DADE Pool on the roof must have a leak. 
Kate gives Dade a look that could kill and skulks away. 
DADE Revenge. 
MRS. MURPHY Aaaah. Did we meet someone special? 
DADE No. No one special. 
MRS. MURPHY Okay, I gotta get back to work. I'm gonna be home late.  And would you try and please fill these out? 
She indicates a pile of college applications. 
MRS. MURPHY Oh don't worry, it's only the rest of your life. 
She starts to the door. 
DADE Right. Anything else, you want me to mow the lawn? Oops, forgot. New York. No grass. 
MRS. MURPHY And unpack. 
She leaves. Dade looks over the college applications for a second, and pushes them away. He'd rather not do this now. 
INT. CYBERDELIA. 
Dade, Phreak and Joey are sitting at a table. Joey is giving a dull account of his hacking adventures. Enter Cereal. 
CEREAL FYI, alright man, you can sit at home, and do like absolutely nothing and... 
Cereal pauses, notices Dade, whom he has never met formally but seen around, and then continues. 
CEREAL ...and your name goes through like seventeen computers a day. 1984, yeah right man, that's a typo. Orwell's here and now, he's living large. We have no names, man, no names. We are nameless. Can I score a fry? Thanks. 
PHREAK Meet Cereal Killer. As in Froot Loops? But he does know things. 
Dade and Cereal acknowledge each other. 
JOEY Anyways, guys, guys, listen, listen to me. I'm in this computer right? So I'm looking around... 
PHREAK (to Cereal) D'you bring those Crayola books? 
CEREAL Oh yeah, technicolor rainbow. 
Cereal brings a book out of his bag. 
CEREAL Green one. 
JOEY What is that, what is that? Lemmie see. What are these? 
DADE International Unix Environments. 
Cereal pulls out another book. 
CEREAL Luscious orange? 
Cereal hands the orange book to Phreak. 
DADE Computer security criteria, DOD standards. 
Another book comes out. 
DADE The Pink Shirt Book, Guide to IBM PCs. So called due to the nasty pink shirt the guy wears on the cover. 
CEREAL It was him, man! 
PHREAK You're psyched. You need to lay off of that shit. 
CEREAL (to Joey) I'm gonna hit you! 
INT. JOEY'S ROOM. NIGHT. 
Joey is hacking. A Gibson. He gets in. Using GOD as a password. Nice graphics represent the machine's vast systems. 
JOEY YES! Home run, home run. You and me Lucy. We're gonna show em baby. 
INT. COMPUTER ROOM, ELLINGSON MINERAL. 
A system operator at Ellingson Mineral Corporation, a large oil company, notices the intrusion. He gets on the phone. 
INT. PLAGUE'S LOFT. 
The place is a mess, typical of the hacker bachelor pad. Empty chinese food boxes and Jolt Cola cans litter the place. 
Plague's phone is ringing, waking him. 
HAL (on phone) Mr. Belford? 
PLAGUE (sleepily) My name is the Plague. 
HAL Uh, Mr. The Plague, uh, something weird's happening on the net. 
PLAGUE As in what, you hapless techno-weenie? 
HAL Uh, the accounting subdirectory in the Gibson is working really hard. We got one person online, the workload is enough for like ten users. I think we've got a hacker. 
INT. JOEY'S ROOM. 
JOEY Okay, okay, we need proof that we were here. Right, uh... 
Joey starts looking for something to download as proof he was there. 
JOEY Yeah, Garbage, okay, give me Garbage. 
He selects a Garbage file and starts the download. His screen becomes a psychedelic mind trip. 
INT. COMPUTER ROOM, ELLINGSON MINERAL. 
The Plague glides in on a skateboard. Short and thin, bearded, about 35 but still trying to be a teenage anarchist, yet not consciously realizing he sold out that ideal years ago. 
PLAGUE Never fear. I is here. 
HAL I've narrowed the activity to terminal 23. 
PLAGUE Let's echo 23, see what's up. 
The huge monitor lights up with the display of the Gibson's resources. Hal and the Plague watch. Plague starts "surfing" around. 
PLAGUE "God" wouldn't be up this late. 
He sees what Joey is downloading. A file called "Garbage". 
PLAGUE Shit! Get me the switching control center. 
JOEY Mom... 
JENNIFER Just how dangerous are hackers? 
GILL Well, hackers penetrate and ravage delicate public and privately owned computer systems, infecting them with viruses... 
JOEY'S MOM Joey! 
GILL ...and stealing sensitive materials for their own ends. These people, they're terrorists... 
JOEY'S MOM Joey! 
INT. ELLINGSON MINERAL CORPORATION. 
A tall, impressive building. A cavernous atrium filled with busy people. 
INT. ELLINGSON BOARDROOM. 
A handsome looking woman in her late thirties walks in. 
MARGO Good morning, Gentlemen. Please be seated. I see we're still dressing in the dark, Eugene. 
PLAGUE (to Margo) Once again, don't call me Eugene. (to the board) A recent unknown intruder penetrated, using a superuser acount, giving him access to our whole system. 
MARGO Precisely what you're paid to prevent. 
PLAGUE Someone didn't bother reading my carefully prepared memo on commonly used passwords. Now, as I so meticulously pointed out, the for most used passwords are love, (gesturing lewdly) sex, secret and... (eyeing Margo) ...God. So would your holiness care to change her password? 
Margo just blinks prettily. 
PLAGUE A hacker planted the virus. 
MARGO Virus? 
PLAGUE Yesterday, the ballast program for a supertanker training model mistakenly thought the vessel was empty, and flooded its tanks. 
MARGO Excuse me? 
PLAGUE (as if to a child) The little boat flipped over. A virus planted in the Gibson computer system claimed responsibility. 
MARGO What, it left a note? 
Plague hits a button on a remote control, and the virus - a long haired male model - appears on a large screen, in psychedelic colors. The virus speaks in a hammy Italian accent. 
VIRUS Unless five million dollars are transferred to the following numbered account in seven days, I will capsize five tankers in the Ellingson fleet. 
BOARD MEMBER Is that... 
PLAGUE (interrupting) That is the virus. Leonardo da Vinci. The problem is we have twenty six ships at sea and we don't know which ones are infected. 
DUKE ELLINGSON Well then, put the ships' ballasts under manual control. 
PLAGUE There's no such thing anymore, Duke. These ships are totally computerized. They rely on satellite navigation, which links them to our network, and the virus, wherever they are in the world. 
MARGO So what are we supposed to do? 
PLAGUE Well luckily, you have a gifted and talented security officer. I traced the hacker's call. The secret service picked him up this morning. I'll just search his files for the original virus code, and then I can eliminate it. 
INT. ELLINGSON MINERAL ATRIUM. 
GILL Then he stashed it somewhere, or he has an accomplice. We'll release him until his indictment, keep tight surveillance, and see if he leads us to your disc. 
EXT. OUTSIDE JOEY'S PLACE. 
Joey's apartment building is an L-shaped skyscraper about 30 storeys high, unimpressive by New York City standards. Two Secret Service agents are staking Joey out in a car outside. 
SECRET SERVICE AGENT BOB Unit 3 outside suspect Joey Pardella's apartment. Nothing to report. Suspect still grounded... by his mother. 
His radio crackles. 
AGENT BOB Listen to this bullshit. (he reads) "This is our world now. The world of the electron and the switch, the beauty of the baud. We exist without nationality, skin color, or religious bias. You wage wars, murder, cheat, lie to us and try to make us believe it's for our own good, yet we're the criminals. Yes, I am a criminal. My crime is that of curiosity. I am a hacker and this is my manifesto." Huh, right, manifesto? "You may stop me, but you can't stop us all." 
AGENT RAY Now that's cool. 
AGENT BOB Cool? 
AGENT RAY Yeah, cool. 
AGENT BOB You think it's cool? 
AGENT RAY (not caring for where Bob is going with this) It's cool! 
AGENT BOB It's not cool. It's commie bullshit! 
INT. HIGH SCHOOL BOYS' ROOM. 
Dade, Cereal and Phreak check their faces. Cereal brushes his teeth. 
CEREAL (to Phreak) So what do you think, can I crash at your place tonight? 
DADE What is it with this guy? 
PHREAK His parents missed Woodstock and he's been making up for it since. Hey, you hear about Joey's bust? 
CEREAL Yeah. Probably had something to do with that bank in Idaho. 
PHREAK Do you think he could hack a Gibson? 
DADE Did you talk to him? 
PHREAK Nope. His mom said he's grounded for his next three lifetimes. (imitating her) He isn't to consort with his computer friends. (himself again) The secret service is really out to get him. (changes the subject) Hey there's a big party tonight, you wanna go? 
Dade shakes his head. 
PHREAK It's at Kate's... 
Dade just smiles. 
PHREAK Thought so! 
Cereal and Phreak leave, Cereal dancing. 
INT. PLAGUE'S OFFICE. 
Plague is wearing a VR helmet and gloves, playing some sort of action game. He is unaware that Gill has just entered the room. 
GILL What the hell are you doing? Plague! 
He thumps the VR pedestal. 
Plague is holding Dade's baseball bat. He shrugs, turns around, and smashes Dade's stereo to smithereens. 
DADE Shit! Come on! 
PLAGUE Watch which friends you do play with. A record like yours could land you in jail, get you kicked out of school, no colleges would take you. No future. Exiled from everyone and everything you love. 
Plague replaces the baseball bat. 
PLAGUE I'll be in touch. 
Plague leaves. 
PLAGUE (to agents) I'm fine. (to Dade) Oh, and Dade, try to stay out of trouble, okay? 
DADE Blow me. 
PLAGUE (smiles) Thank you! 
INT. DADE'S ROOM. LATER. 
Dade is lying in bed. A door opens. It's Kate. She opens her motorcycle jacket, revealing her bare breasts. Dade starts to get up, she pushes him back own on the bed and starts kissing him passionately. He responds in kind. Then, Gill, Agent Ray and Agent Bob burst into the room, handcuff him, break the two up and haul them away as Plague looks on smugly. 
Then Dade wakes up in a sweat.  It was only a dream. He regains his composure.  The sound of New York City at night surrounds him. He goes back to sleep. 
INT. KATE'S PLACE. 
The party. A large, well-furnished apartment in an elegant old skyscraper in the fashionable part of town. Teenagers dance and writhe to loud, bassy music. Dade and Phreak arrive. 
PHREAK Her mom makes big bucks writing self-help books for women. Stuff like "Women Who Love Men Who Are Emotional Amoebae" 
Phreak shows Dade the book. 
DADE That explains a lot. 
Kate, the lovely and gracious hostess, mingles and greets her many guests, not noticing Dade or Phreak. Cereal offers Dade a drink from a plastic bottle. Dade, not knowing what he's in for, drinks. Nikon is the Deejay. 
PHREAK (loudly) Yo, what's up Nikon! 
NIKON Yo Phreak! Dade, man, you made it. (to Cereal) Houston, we have liftoff, 3 o'clock, check it... don't look right away, what's wrong with you! Look at her man... 
Nikon and Cereal are checking out a truly fine babe. 
NIKON (concentrating) Look out, man. Lisa Blair, 26 East 7th St., apartment 16, 555-4817, BOOM! 
DADE How did you know that? 
NIKON I got photographic memory. (Smiling) It's a curse! (Into the crowd) Lisa! 
LISA Hey, how do you know my name? 
Cereal and Phreak move through the crowd. Cereal notices something. 
CEREAL Oooo, look at that pooper man. Spandex, it's a privilege, not a right! 
INT. MEETING HALL. 
A 12-step recovery group. Addicts, including Joey Pardella, sit in a semi-circle. 
VICKIE Hi, my name is Vickie, and I'm an addict. 
PHREAK (smiling) Uh-huh! 
KATE (her tone changing) Yeah, it is... (she comes over to it) I wanna triple the RAM... 
CURTIS Oooh, Leopard Boy... AND the Decepticons. Uh, Kate, Kate, you're not going into that computer shit now, right? 
Kate barely acknowledges him. 
CURTIS (cynically) Humm, yeah. 
Curtis leaves. 
CEREAL (mockingly) Right. 
DADE The sensitive type. 
Kate finally notices that Dade, whom she didn't invite, is at her party and in her bedroom. 
KATE What is he doing in here? 
PHREAK Relax, Burn, he's my guest. 
DADE Burn. You're Acid Burn. You booted me out of OTV! 
KATE What? 
DADE I'm Crash Override. 
KATE You're the moron that's been invading my turf? 
CEREAL Whoa, whowhowhowhoa. (motioning to Dade) Crash... (motioning to Kate) and Burn! 
Cereal breaks into hysterics. 
INT. PLAGUE'S LOFT. 
Plague is hacking. 
MARGO Murphy kid turn you down? 
PLAGUE (in a hammy southern accent) I disguised myself as an Alabama State Trooper and penetrated the FBI NCIC. 
MARGO Pervert! What are you talking about? 
She turns her back to him. He does up the zipper on her dress. Their relationship becomes apparent. 
PLAGUE The FBI computer holds files on twenty million Americans.  I just hacked into it. 
MARGO Congratulations. 
PLAGUE From here I got access to every piece of data ever stored on Dade Murphy's parents. His parents separated five years ago, reconciled two years later, filed for divorce last year, custody battle, boy chose to go with his mother. Hmm. 
MARGO So? 
PLAGUE So, we get the mother, we get the boy. 
INT. KATE'S ROOM. 
Kate's room is empty, and Dade can't resist going back in to play with her laptop, which far outclasses his own, some more. On the balcony, Kate notices and comes back in. 
Kate rifles through her address book. 
CEREAL The duel will last until we declare a winner. 
Dade plays quick-draw with disks. 
PHREAK Use only the dialups, access codes and passwords in your collection. Can't ask for any help from us. 
Dade, having mastered the quick-disk-draw in the mirror, looks satisfied. 
DADE (into mirror) Talking to me? 
All five are together at the beginning of the challenge. 
PHREAK Any questions? 
KATE Yeah. Whose gonna notify his next of kin? 
Dade and Kate shake hands and the challenge begins. 
EXT. NEW YORK CITY PUBLIC PHONE. 
At a public phone, Kate hacks into Concourse Bank, looks up Richard Gill, and has his credit card maxed out. "Destroy Card" is the final instruction. The other hackers look on. 
INT. RESTAURANT. 
A waiter runs a credit card through a validation machine, sees the message and returns to the patron's table. It is Richard Gill. Right there, the waiter chops the MasterCard in two with a pair of scissors, to Gill's horror. 
EXT. NEW YORK CITY PUBLIC PHONE. 
Dade hacks into an electronic personal ads system and changes an ad. 
KATE Alright, he's in the personal ads. (reading Dade's ad) "Disappointed white male, crossdresser, looking for discreet friend to bring dreams to reality. Leather, lace, and water sports. Transvestites welcome." 
INT. GILL'S OFFICE. 
At his office, Gill is on the speaker phone with someone responding to the ad. 
GILL I... I... I know where you can stick it... I know where you can stick it... 
Gill punches a button on the phone, another caller comes on. 
CALLER ...wanna lick your earlobes... I wanna lick your lips... I wanna lick your toes... I wanna lick your ankles... 
GILL Awww, yeah, you wanna lick something? Lick this. 
Gill punches another button, another caller comes on. 
CALLER That's why they call me Stallion... 
GILL Aw, that's disgusting! 
Gill punches another button. 
CALLER My heart is steaming for you... 
Gill punches another button. He is becoming quite flustered. 
CALLER ...spank you with my... 
DADE Deal. 
Kate gives Dade a look that says "I'm going to hold you to that." 
INT. KATE'S BED. NIGHT. 
A shapely figure wearing a red leather legless suit with a zipper that goes all the way around the crotch. Hands caress the sultry figure as the camera pans up. The body belongs to Dade Murphy. 
Kate wakes up gasping.  It was only a dream. She pants and regains her breath. Then she smiles. She enjoyed that dream. 
KATE Oooohhhh... 
INT. HIGH SCHOOL HALLWAY. 
Kate, at her locker, stops Dade. 
KATE Dade. I didn't know your size, so I guessed. 
She opens her locker to reveal a red leather bustier and bikini bottom. 
KATE You are man enough to stick with the deal, aren't you? 
Dade walks off. 
INT. DADE'S PLACE. 
Dade signs an electronic pad for a package from UPS. He takes the package. 
DADE Thanks. 
He closes the door and opens the package. It is a laptop computer, clear plastic shell, full colour screen. Very high-end, perhaps the equal to Kate's machine. He turns it on. The Plague's face, distorted, appears. It speaks. 
PLAGUE You wanted to know who I am, Zero Cool? Well let me explain the New World Order. Governments and corporations need people like you and me. We are samurai. The keyboard cowboys. And all those other people out there who have no idea what's going on are the cattle. Mooo! I need your help, you need my help. Let me help you earn your spurs. Ahh, think about it. Enjoy the laptop, "Cool"! Tell me where the disk is. 
Plague's face vanishes. 
INT. JOEY'S ROOM. 
Joey lies on his bed with a comic book, looking despondent. His mother enters. 
JOEY'S MOM You look pitiful. Okay, okay, you're not grounded anymore. 
She kisses his forehead and leaves. He springs back to life, gets up and gets the disc from where he stashed it in the air vent. 
EXT. PARK. 
Joey is nervously waiting on a park bench. Phreak arrives. Agents Ray and Bob still have Joey staked out. 
PHREAK Yo, what's up? 
JOEY Dude dude dude, I gotta talk to you a minute, listen listen listen. I copied a garbage file from... 
PHREAK Big deal. A garbage file's got shit in it, Joey, come on. 
JOEY Nono, it's like hot or something. I don't know. 
PHREAK Joey, a garbage file holds miscellaneous data. Junk. Bits of stuff that's been erased, man. 
JOEY I copied it from Ellingson, okay? They're asking me about it, alright? Will you take a look for me? 
PHREAK Thank you. 
Kate answers. 
KATE Hello? 
PHREAK Hey, it's me. 
KATE Phreak? 
PHREAK I'm freaking! Joey wasn't making it up! He really hacked into Ellingson! He gave me the disc with a file he copied and now I'm in jail! They're charging me with some serious shit! And there's stuff I didn't even do, like inserting some virus called Da Vinci, and they keep asking about you guys. 
KATE You think they're going to bust us? 
PHREAK Yeah! You better figure out what's on that disc, cause we're being framed. It's in that place where I put that thing that time? 
He hangs up just as the cop returns. 
INT. SCHOOL BOYS' ROOM. 
Kate is entirely out of place in the boys' room, as the boys look on amusedly.  She finds the disc behind the condom machine and pockets it. Then she buys a condom from the machine and struts out, smiling sweetly, hot as fire. 
INT. DADE'S PLACE. 
Kate knocks. Mrs. Murphy lets Kate and Cereal in. 
MRS. MURPHY Hi! (looking Kate over) Well, now I see what all the fuss is about. (she shows them to Dade's room) Dade... you have company. 
CEREAL It's a nice room. 
KATE We need your help. 
DADE Do my ears deceive me? 
Kate starts to leave. 
CEREAL Nonononono. Truce, you guys. Listen, we got a higher purpose here, alright? A wake up call for the Nintendo Generation. We demand free access to data, well, it comes with some responsibility. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child, but when I became a man I put away childish things. (pause) What... It's Corinthians I, Chapter 13, verse 11, no duh. Come on. 
KATE Phreak and Joey are being framed. We need your help to figure out what's on this disc. 
DADE I can't. Everybody who touches that thing gets busted, I can't afford to get arrested, I'm sorry. 
CEREAL Maybe I should just go to the bathroom or something. 
Cereal leaves the room. 
KATE What is it with you? I know we've been playing games, but, we're supposed to be on the same side and we really need your help. I really need your help. 
DADE I'm sorry, I can't. 
KATE Well, could you just make a copy of the disc? And just hide it in case we get busted, so we have something to give our lawyers, something that hasn't been tampered with? Can you do that? 
A knock on the door. Dade's mom peeks in. 
MRS. MURPHY Listen you guys, help yourself to anything in the fridge. Cereal has. 
She leaves. 
KATE (to Mrs. Murphy) Thank you. 
Dade takes Nikon's place. 
CEREAL Tag, you're in. 
Hours pass. Dade studies and reverse engineers the garbage file. The other hackers watch, and do just about anything but be hackers. Finally, over boxes of half-finished pizza, Dade makes an announcement. 
DADE This isn't a virus. It's a worm! 
NIKON What's this one eat? 
DADE It nibbles. You see this? 
Dade indicates a rapidly scrolling data display. 
DADE This is every financial transaction Ellingson conducts, yeah? From million dollar deals to the ten bucks some guy pays for gas. 
KATE The worm eats a few cents from each transaction. 
DADE And no one's caught it because the money isn't really gone. It's just data being shifted around. 
KATE Right. And when the worm's ready, it zips out with the money and erases its tracks. 
DADE Joey got cut off before he got to that part. Check it out. By this point, it's already running at, what, twice the speed as when it started. 
KATE Right, and at this rate it ends its run in... 
NIKON Two days. 
DADE And judging by this segment alone, it's already eaten about... 
CEREAL 21.8 million bucks, man. 
Nikon whistles. 
KATE Whoever wrote this needs somebody to take the fall. And that's Phreak, and that's Joey, and that's us. We've got to get the rest of the file, so we can find out where the money is going before the worm disappears, so we can find out WHO created it. 
DADE I know, I know who wrote it. 
KATE What? 
DADE This Ellingson security creep. I gave him a copy of the disc you gave me. 
KATE You what? 
DADE I didn't know what was on it. 
CEREAL (agitated) Oh man. That's universally stupid, man! 
NIKON Yo, man, you an amateur, man. 
KATE Why did he come to you? 
DADE I got a record. I was Zero Cool. 
NIKON Zero Cool? Crashed fifteen hundred and seven systems in one day? 
Nikon closes his eyes and access his photographic memory. 
NIKON Biggest crash in history, front page, New York Times, August 10th, 1988. I thought you was black, man! Yo, man, this is Zero Cool! Oh, shit! 
CEREAL AND NIKON (in unison, pointing down the street) TRUCK!!! 
The phone company tech jumps back in the hole, Cereal and Nikon take off. 
INT. SECRET SERVICE BULDING. 
A woman is seated at the desk.  Agent Gill walks by. 
WOMAN Find it? 
Cereal emerges from the desk, between her legs. His tool belt dangles obscenely from his crotch. 
CEREAL Phone's alright. The problem must be somewhere else. 
Cereal walks away with his buttcrack seriously showing. 
INT. ELLINGSON MINERAL OFFICES. 
Nikon poses as a flower delivery boy. He winds his way through the offices of Ellingson Mineral, "shoulder surfing", watching the workers entering passwords. His photographic memory captures everything.  The Plague walks past him, noticing briefly but not making the connection. 
INT. PLAGUE'S LOFT. 
The Da Vinci virus' launch/cancel prompt is up. 
MARGO (pacing) They had a large chunk of the garbage file? How much do they know? 
PLAGUE Not everything. But enough to implicate us. 
MARGO You said the worm was untreaceable! 
PLAGUE Yeah. To civilians. But they're hackers. But don't worry. All we have to do is launch the Da Vinci virus, and then they'll all be put away. 
MARGO Launch the Da Vinci virus? You can't do that! 
PLAGUE No one believes the guilty. Besides, by the time they realize the truth, we'll be long gone with all of our money. 
Margo starts to protest. 
PLAGUE Look, there is no right and wrong.  There is only fun and boring. A thirty year prison sentence sounds pretty dull to me.  Who do you prefer serves it, us? Or them? 
Plague clicks on "Launch". The virus repeats its demand. 
VIRUS Unless five million dollars are transferred to the following numbered account in seven days, I will capsize five tankers in the Ellingson fleet. 
EXT. OPEN SEA. 
As the virus speaks, a supertanker sails on a choppy sea. 
INT. PLAGUE'S LOFT. 
Plague leaves a message on Gill's answering machine. 
PLAGUE (sternly) The virus goes off tomorrow morning at 10:30, and those hackers tried to get into our system again. At this point I insist you take more strenuous action, or Ellingson Mineral will hold the Secret Service responsible. 
Gill gets on the phone. 
GILL (grimly) Get me arrest warrants on Kate Libby, alias Acid Burn, Emmanuel Goldstein, alias Cereal Killer, Dade Murphy, alias Crash Override, also known as Zero Cool, and Paul Cook, alias Lord Nikon. We pick them up tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. 
As Gill gives the order, a mysterious device under his desk blinks. Cereal put it there. 
MARGO "Minor glitch" with you seems to turn into a major catastrophe. 
The main screen is filled with: 
I WANT A COOKIE. GIVE ME A COOKIE NOW! 
HAL There's a new virus in the database. 
MARGO What's happening? 
HAL It's replicating, eating up memory. What do I do? 
PLAGUE Type "Cookie", you idiot. I'll head 'em off at the pass. 
Another virus appears. 
HAL We have a Zero Bug attacking all the login and overlay files. 
PLAGUE Run anti-virus. Give me a systems display! 
The systems display comes up. Red flashes everywhere, signifying new attacks. Plague presses a key. 
PLAGUE Die, dickweeds! 
HAL The rabbit is in the administration system. 
Rabbit icons start to fill the systems display. 
PLAGUE Send a Flu-shot. 
MARGO Rabbit, Flu-shot, someone talk to me. 
HAL A rabbit replicates till it overloads a file, then it spreads like cancer. 
MARGO Cancer? 
The Da Vinci Virus sings "Row Row Row Your Boat". Tanker ballasts start filling - for real. 
INT. GRAND CENTRAL PUBLIC PHONES. 
KATE It's the Gibson, it's finding us too fast. 
DADE Man, there's too many garbage files, I need more time. 
INT. COMPUTER ROOM, ELLINGSON MINERAL. 
PLAGUE They're at Grand Central Station, lower level. Don't screw up. 
EXT. GRIDLOCKED STREETS. 
The Secret Service and NYPD are stuck.  They turn around and head for Grand Central Station. 
INT. GRAND CENTRAL PUBLIC PHONES. 
The public phone next to Dade's rings.  Dade answers. It's The Plague. 
INT. COMPUTER ROOM, ELLINGSON MINERAL. 
PLAGUE Game's over. Last chance to get out of this without a prison sentence.  You're not good enough to beat me, you little shit. 
The SS and SWAT push through crowds. 
DADE It's root slash period workspace slash period garbage period. 
The SS are nearly there. 
Joey has found the file. 
The SS arrive.  Gill himself has his .357 drawn. 
GILL Freeze! 
It's an empty bank of payphones, the receivers are linked together and taped up. No hackers. They keep going. 
GILL (pissed off but determined) Ahhh Come on! 
Joey completes the download. 
KATE (to Razor and Blade) Kill the Gibson. 
RAZOR Roger that. 
INT. COMPUTER ROOM, ELLINGSON MINERAL. 
PLAGUE Come on you son of a bitch, is that all you got, huh? Come on, let's see what else you can do! You talking to me? Huh? Hahahaha. Are you nuts? Come at me! 
Margo and Duke are awed by Plague's imminent failure and total unprofessionalism. 
HAL They're in the kernal. 
DA VINCI VIRUS Help... me... 
The Da Vinci virus dies. The tankers stop capsizing and right themselves. 
WOMAN (off screen) The tankers have stopped capsizing. 
SOMEONE ELSE (off screen) Ballast tanks are emptying. It'll be okay. 
The main screen lights up: 
ARF ARF! WE GOTCHA! 
MESS WITH THE BEST DIE LIKE THE REST 
PLAGUE Little pissant! 
The Gibson dies in a flash of light. 
INT. GRAND CENTRAL PUBLIC PHONES. 
The hackers cheer and congratulate each other. 
NIKON Yes! 
DADE We did it! 
KATE Let's get out of here! 
GILL FREEZE! 
