<b><!-- </b> <b>/* </b>Break-out-of-frames script By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com) Over 400+ free scripts here! Above notice MUST stay entact for use <b>*/ </b> if (window!= top) top.location.href=location.href <b>// --> </b> Hannah and Her Sisters 
HANNAH AND HER SISTERS 
by 
Woody Allen 
As the last credit appears, the song ends in a crescendo and the screen fades to total black. 
Immediately, a new melody begins, an uptempo jazz number, as a title appears on the screen. 
"God, she's beautiful..." 
CUT TO: 
INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
A full face of Lee, wearing a gray sweater and leaning against the dining room doorway.  She gazes into the camera with a half-smile on her face as Elliot speaks over the screen. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) God, she's beautiful. 
Lee glances over her shoulder, then turns from the doorway and walks away.  The camera follows her, moving across a book-and-photograph-filled bookshelf that obscures her from view as she walks into a crowded, comfortable vestibule. People, some holding drinks, some just entering the apartment, surround her.  Everyone is talking at once, carrying on easy, familiar conversation. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) She's got the prettiest eyes, and she looks so sexy in that sweater. 
Lee smiles at the various people, exchanging greetings. 
LEE Hi, how are you? 
Two more guests enter the apartment; the vestibule is full now.  Still walking, Lee lightly hugs one of the children as she continues on her way towards the living room.  Elliot's voice, as well as the jazzy music, is heard. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) I just want to be alone with her and hold her and kiss her... 
Lee walks into the living room, turning her head back for a moment to talk to the child she has just hugged. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) ...and tell her how much I love her and take care of her.  Stop it, you idiot.  She's your wife's sister. But I can't help it. 
The camera is still moving with Lee as she smiles and stops to chat with her mother.  Elliot's voice, as well as the music, continues over the low din of warm conversation. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) I'm consumed by her.  It's been months now.  I dream about her.  I- I, I think about her at the office. Oh, Lee. (sighing) What am I gonna do? 
Lee starts to walk off again, finishing her conversation with her mother.  She passes several other guests, then turns to greet April, giving her a warm, brief hug. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) I hear myself mooning over you, and it's disgusting.  Before, when she... 
Elliot's voice-over continues as he is actually seen, standing in a doorway having a conversation with a gesturing, rotund man.  Both are holding drinks as Lee, carrying a tray of hors d'oeuvres and two drinks, walks between them.  The space is very tight; the men hold up their drinks to make room for her. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) ...squeezed past me in the doorway, and I smelled that perfume on the back of her neck... 
Elliot watches Lee walk off; the other man, oblivious, continues to talk.  Elliot reluctantly returns to the conversation, but he can't help turning his head to gaze at the offscreen Lee as the other man chatters on. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) ...Jesus, I, I thought I was gonna swoon!  Easy... 
The camera resumes following a smiling Lee.  She has just put down the tray and drinks near April, and briskly and obliviously, she walks past a doorway where Elliot, still ruminating, watches her, entranced. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) You're a dignified financial advisor.  It doesn't look good for you to swoon. 
The camera stays with Elliot, who is still watching the offscreen Lee.  In the background, guests continue to chatter warmly with each other. 
Hannah, carrying a tray of hors d'oeuvres, walks up behind the distracted Elliot. 
HANNAH (nibbling on an hors d'oeuvre) Elliot?  Elliot? (rubbing his shoulder) Sweetheart? 
Elliot returns from his reveries with a start. 
ELLIOT (turning to Hannah) Mm-hm? 
HANNAH (pointing to the tray) Have you tried these?  These are wonderful. (nibbling, swallowing) Holly and her friend made them. 
Elliot, taking one of the hors d'oeuvres, starts nibbling as well as he and Hannah walk past the bookshelf into the living room. 
ELLIOT (swallowing) They're fantastic. 
HANNAH (overlapping, still eating) Aren't they great? 
ELLIOT Your sister is an unbelievable cook. 
HANNAH (swallowing) I know!  I know! 
Elliot and Hannah, eating and talking, walk past a hallway and offscreen as Holly appears, walking down the hallway. She holds a drink and a plate of hors d'oeuvres; she stands at the entrance to the hallway, eating and looking at the offscreen guests. 
HANNAH (walking offscreen) She has all the cooking talent. 
ELLIOT (walking offscreen swallowing) No, she doesn't, either.  You've got tons as well. 
HANNAH (offscreen) Ohhh, but I've eaten five of these. 
Holly, standing in the hallway onscreen, swallows loudly. 
ELLIOT (offscreen, overlapping Holly) Holly, why don't you open your own restaurant? 
HOLLY (turning to the offscreen Elliot and Hannah, trying to swallow) Mmm, we practically are.  Well... (holding her hand to her mouth) not a restaurant, but... (swallowing) April and I are going to do some catering! 
HANNAH (offscreen) What?  You're kidding! 
HOLLY (nodding) No, no, we decided! 
Holly takes a sip of her drink as Hannah and Elliot walk over to her. 
HANNAH Perfect! 
HOLLY (nodding and swallowing) Mmm...I mean, we love to cook for our friends, so (gesturing) we thought until an acting job comes through, we could just make some extra money, you know, doing a few private parties. 
ELLIOT (nodding) Great idea. 
HANNAH (agreeing) I know. 
LEE (turning towards the sink) Yeah, she knows it, too, 'cause she's flirting with all the men here. 
HOLLY (puffing on her cigarette) God. 
HANNAH (scooping out some cantaloupe seeds) Maybe when she's eighty, she'll stop straightening her garter belt when there's a guy around. 
HOLLY (to Lee, laughing) I should get a garter belt. 
LEE (laughing) Yeah. 
HOLLY (looking down at herself) Get a garter belt... (sipping her drink) Get a garter belt and flirt. 
LEE (laughing, to Hannah) Where are the antihistamines? 
HANNAH Oh, I don-- Ask Elliot for that. Uh, he's got them somewhere. 
LEE (nodding) Okay. 
Lee leaves the kitchen.  Holly, puffing on her cigarette, watches her go. 
HOLLY (sighing) Frederick didn't come with her. 
HANNAH (turning to Holly, still working at the sink) When does Frederick ever come with her? 
HOLLY (whispering intently) Tch.  He's such an angry...he's such a depressive.  I thought she was moving out! 
Hannah shakes her head in disapproval while Holly angrily takes another sip of her drink. 
And the film cuts briefly back to the living room, where Evan is still playing the piano and singing.  The camera moves past him and a few guests to Norma, who is enthusiastically singing along, looking at Evan and moving her hands. 
EVAN & NORMA (singing) "A pill he is But still he is All mine and I'll Keep him until he is Bewitched, a'both--" 
CUT TO: 
INT. HANNAH'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
The table is beautifully set for Thanksgiving dinner, complete with candles, flowers, cut crystal, china, and silver.  Hannah's children are playing in the room as Hannah enters, carrying a huge roast turkey.  Behind her is Holly, carrying a casserole.  Hannah's parents can still be heard singing in the background. 
HANNAH (to the children) Watch out, you guys.  Beep-beep! 
HOLLY (overlapping) Oh, your kids are so adorable. 
CHILDREN (walking through the doorway) Bye!  Bye! 
HOLLY (putting down her bowl on the table) God, it gets so lonely on the holidays. 
HANNAH (setting down the turkey on the opposite end of the table) Oh, gosh.  Well, you know, that's why I invited Phil Gammage tonight. 
As the sisters talk, the piano music stops.  There's the sound of light applause as Evan begins a new song, faintly heard in the dining room. 
HOLLY (grimacing, reacting to Hannah) Oh, Hannah! 
HANNAH (overlapping) It's, uh, you never know-- 
HOLLY (interrupting, gesturing) He's such a loser! 
HANNAH He's not a loser at all! 
HOLLY (shaking her head) Oh, he's such a loser! 
HANNAH (overlapping, lighting a set of candles on the table) He's the headmaster of Daisy's school. 
HOLLY Oh, perfect!  He reminds me of Ichabod Crane. (moving her hand up and down her throat) His Adam's apple keeps jumping up and down whenever he gets excited. HANNAH (laughing) Listen.  He's a lot better than your ex-husband.  He's got a good job. (handing a pack of matches to Holly) Would you light those, please? He's-he's-he's not a dope addict or anything. 
HOLLY (striking a match to light another set of candles) Give me a break. 
APRIL (offscreen) Am I interrupting... 
The film cuts to April, standing in the doorway of the dining room and holding a drink. 
APRIL (continuing) ...any sister talk? 
HANNAH (offscreen) Mm-mm! 
HOLLY (offscreen) Come in. 
The camera moves with April as she walks over to the table, where Hannah and Holly are lighting candles. 
APRIL Oh, good... 
HANNAH (overlapping, still offscreen) Come in, come in. 
APRIL (gesturing) ...because there are no interesting single men at this party! 
HANNAH (now onscreen) Oh, listen... 
HOLLY (interrupting, waving out her match) I know.  It's terrible! 
APRIL (shaking her head) I mean, I've looked everywhere. 
HANNAH (picking at the turkey and gesturing) Maybe April would like Phil.  Phil Gammage, the tall guy in there by the piano. 
Holly groans, looking at her sister, while April sips her drink and nods. 
APRIL (pointing to herself) Hm-mm.  Oh, yeah.  I met Phil. 
HANNAH (looking at April, nodding) Mmm? 
APRIL He's the--He looks like Ichabod Crane? 
Hannah screams with laughter as she walks toward the end of the table, past a gleeful Holly, who points her finger at Hannah as she passes.  Hannah, still laughing, playfully pushes the accusing finger away. 
APRIL (laughing with the sisters, gesturing) I love that.  That's my type. 
HANNAH (shaking her head, laughing) I can't believe it! 
She walks over to a nearby china cabinet. 
Everyone is seated around the table for Thanksgiving dinner. Facing the camera are Holly, Lee, Norma, and Hannah.  She sits to the left of Elliot, who's at the head of the table. On his right is Evan; April sits next to him.  She and the other guests sit with their backs to the screen.  The table overflows with food, floral decorations, and candles.  In the background, the children sit at a separate table; a maid serves them turkey.  The guests chatter comfortably among themselves as they eat. 
EVAN (clanking a piece of silverware against his water glass) Now, ladies and gentlemen... 
HOLLY (making a face) Dad. 
Evan continues to clank his glass to get everyone's attention. 
HOLLY Dad... 
LEE (reacting, to Holly) Oh... 
HOLLY Dad! 
EVAN (still clanking) No, now... 
HOLLY I'm starving! 
Resigned, Holly puts down her silverware.  Lee smothers a laugh.  Norma, reacting, glances at Holly and Lee.  Everyone knows what's coming. 
EVAN (clanking away) ...this is a toast!  This is a toast. 
HANNAH (reaching across the table for Evan's wine glass, laughing) Get his wine away. 
EVAN This is a toast.  You know this beautiful Thanksgiving dinner was all... 
Holly laughs.  Lee glances over to her, reacting.  Hannah, embarrassed, reacts and sits with her hands on her face. Lee and the rest of the guests put down their silverware. They look at Evan, listening. 
EVAN ...prepared...by Hannah. 
Hannah, embarrassed, makes a victory sign. 
HANNAH (modestly pointing to the maid) Uh, and a little help... 
Lee and Holly try to suppress their laughter.  Norma glares at them. 
NORMA (to her daughters) Hey! 
HANNAH (continuing) ...from Mavis, also. 
Elliot wraps his arm around Hannah; he pulls her towards him affectionately and kisses her on the cheek.  She hugs him back. 
ELLIOT (hugging Hannah) You bet. 
HANNAH (overlapping, looking down the table while still in Elliot's embrace) Holly and April, thanks for helping. 
Mavis the maid exits, carrying some trays, as the group starts to cheer and applaud.  Holly waves her napkin at April, then holds up her wine glass. 
EVAN (overlapping the noise) No, you did it. 
HOLLY (overlapping, toasting her friend) April, April! 
HANNAH (overlapping, gesturing) I am... I did slave all day. 
EVAN (overlapping, holding out his wine glass) And we drink to her, and we all congratulate her on her wonderful accomplishment during this last year...her great success in A Doll's House! 
The group continues to cheer as they all toast Hannah.  She reacts, smiling but embarrassed. 
NORMA (overlapping, laughing) Ya-a-a-a-y! (laughing) I played Nora.  I hate to tell you what year... 
The guests, sipping their wine, quiet down as Norma continues to speak.  Lee and Holly unsuccessfully try to contain their laughter.  Mavis reenters the dining room to serve more food to the children. 
NORMA (continuing) And it's very difficult to behave like Torvald's little chipmunk without making a perfect ass out of yourself! (pausing while the guests laugh heartily) Now I think that Ibsen would have been damn proud of our Hannah! 
Norma toasts her daughter; everyone follows her.  The applause and cheers begin anew.  Hannah, reacting, chuckles. 
APRIL (overlapping the applause and clapping loudly) Speech!  Speech!  Speech! 
NORMA (overlapping) Yea-a-a-a-ah! 
A few guests sip their wine.  They all quiet down as Hannah starts her speech, glancing around the table and gesturing. 
HANNAH (reacting) I don't know about that.  Oh, no, I just, see, I-I've been very, very lucky.  W-when I had the kids, I decided to stop working and just, you know, devote myself to having the family, and I've been very, very happy (banging her fists lightly on the table) but...I've always secretly hoped that maybe some little gem would come along and tempt me back on the stage... 
EVAN (nodding) Yeah. 
HANNAH (overlapping) ...just for a second.  So, now I got that out of my system and I can go back to the thing that makes me happiest. 
Hannah tenderly takes Elliot's hand as she looks around the table.  He, in turn, kneads her shoulder, chuckling with equal tenderness. 
EVAN (chuckling) Oh, bravo!  Bravo! 
Hannah, still embarrassed, looks down at a plate.  The group applauds once more, toasting and drinking, and warmly sounding their approval. 
CUT TO: 
"We all had a terrific time." 
Classical string music plays as the film cuts to: 
EXT. MANHATTAN STREET - NIGHT 
A taxi moves down Broadway towards the camera, passing a truck on the right, the Winter Garden marquee advertising Cats, and several buildings, and as the taxi moves offscreen, the classical music still playing, the movie cuts to the taxi's backseat.  Lee sits by the window, leaning her head in her hand, a reflective look on her face.  Her voice is heard over the screen. 
LEE (V.O.) Is it my imagination, or does Elliot have a little crush on me? (chuckling slightly) It's funny.  I've had that thought before.  He pays a lot of attention to me all the time, and he blushed tonight when we were alone in the bedroom.  I wonder if he and Hannah are happy?  It's funny, I...I still feel a little buzz from his flirting. 
CUT TO: 
INT. FREDERICK'S LOFT - NIGHT 
Lee stirs a cup of coffee on the counter of the loft's modern kitchen area; a nearby vase hold flowers.  She walks across the loft, with its high ceilings and beige walls, holding her coffee. 
LEE (to an offscreen Frederick) Want some coffee or tea? 
FREDERICK (offscreen) No, thank you. 
Lee continues to walk, past a modern chaise, a bookcase, some sofas, two columns.  Lamps hang down from the ceiling. The classical music still plays in the background.  Lee stops at a plastic-enclosed work area.  Frederick can be seen working at a drawing board on the other side of the clear plastic screen. 
LARRY We're short!  The show is five minutes short! 
The group turns right into a new corridor, briefly off the screen.  As they scurry off, their voices are heard. 
MICKEY How could it be short?  We timed everything (offscreen) long. 
PAUL (offscreen) If we have to... 
They are all now seen walking down the new corridor towards the camera.  The corridor is crowded with busy TV personnel. The group continues to talk frantically as people hurry past them.  One man pushes rudely past Mary as he walks; she looks back at him briefly. 
PAUL (continuing) ...pull out the sketch, then we'll be ten minutes short! 
MICKEY (gesturing) I don't know how they can do that to us.  That's-- We go on in thirty minutes, right? 
Mary checks her wristwatch as they rush down the corridor. 
LARRY (squeezing past several passersby) They're doing it because our ratings are low. 
MICKEY (nervously rubbing his forehead) I got such a migraine. 
As the group briskly walks past an open door, Gail, another assistant, runs out, brandishing her glasses. 
GAIL (offscreen) Hey, Mickey! 
Gail runs in front of the group.  Without missing a step, she faces Mickey and walks backwards, gesturing and talking frantically. 
GAIL Mickey!  Listen, we better go right to Ronny's dressing room.  This kid must have taken sixteen hundred Quaaludes.  I don't think he's going to be able to do the show! 
The fast-tracking group turns the corner.  Gail pats Mickey's back; she gestures in exasperation. 
MICKEY (gesturing towards heaven) Why me, Lord?  What did I-- 
He is interrupted by Ed Smythe, an official from the Standards and Practices Department, who's been standing in the corridor waiting for Mickey.  Mickey stops and shakes Ed's hand as if he'd known the official would be there. Gail stops by his side while the others walk into a background studio doorway that is busy with scurrying personnel. 
MICKEY You-- (pointing) Standards and Practices? 
ED Ed Smythe, yes. 
MICKEY Okay.  Why, all of a sudden, is the sketch dirty? (putting his hands on his hips) 
ED (gesturing) Child molestation is a touchy subject... 
MICKEY (overlapping, looking at Gail) Could you-- 
ED (continuing) ...with the affiliates. 
MICKEY (overlapping and grunting) Read the papers!  Half the country's doing it! 
ED (pointing at Mickey) Yes, but you name names. 
MICKEY (gesturing) We nev-- We don't name names! (turning to Gail for support, briefly touching her shoulders, then looking back at Ed) We say the Pope. 
GAIL (gesturing emphatically) We always say the Pope! 
ED That sketch... 
MICKEY (overlapping) We-- 
ED (continuing) ...cannot go on the air. 
A writer, holding a script, walks out of the background studio, looking around. 
MICKEY Oh, Je-- 
WRITER (interrupting, shouting) Hey! 
Mickey, Gail, and Ed turn towards the writer. 
WRITER (angrily, slapping his script) Who changed my sketch about the PLO? 
Mickey and Gail walk over to the angry writer, Ed forgotten with this new crisis. 
MICKEY (gesturing) I had to make some cuts.  It's four lousy lines! 
WRITER The whole premise is ruined! 
Mickey, Gail, and the writer start walking down a corridor adjacent to the studio. 
MICKEY (gesturing, trying to calm the writer down) Oh, you're crazy!  It's not so delicate.  Everybody's married to every line. 
The writer reacts angrily.  Gail tries to get Mickey's attention as they walk. 
GAIL (tapping Mickey's shoulder) Mickey, I can-- 
WRITER (interrupting, angrily gesturing) I don't care!  I don't want anyone tampering with my goddamn work without telling me! 
MICKEY (shrugging) Okay. 
WRITER (pointing angrily) You want 'em cut?!  I'll cut 'em myself! 
Mickey, still in surprised shock, turns away from the angry writer.  He stands by an open dressing room, where Ron, an actor, slouches, dazed, in a chair facing a makeup mirror. People mill in the background behind the actor. 
MICKEY (shrugging, distracted) All right, all right. (muttering) 
GAIL (overlapping, trying to get Mickey's attention and gesturing) Mickey, Mickey, listen, listen. 
MICKEY (distractedly, his mind still on the writer) You know... (muttering as the writer passes him and walks away) 
GAIL (overlapping, gesturing) In-in-in-instead of the child molestation sketch, why don't we repeat the Cardinal Spellman Ronald Reagan homosexual dance number? 
MICKEY (still distracted, looking off) No-- 
RON (overlapping) I don't feel good, Mickey. 
Mickey, remembering Ron, runs into the dressing room.  Gail follows him.  Inside, a man and a woman talk, ignoring Ron. They share a drink in a paper cup.  The woman looks back at Ron; she gestures with disgust. 
MICKEY (gesturing) Yeah, wh-- Yeah, what did you do? Swallow a drugstore?! 
MICKEY (overlapping, gesturing) H-he's so awkward and he's clumsy like me... 
HANNAH (overlapping, chuckling) I know, I know. 
MICKEY (overlapping) ...so I, so I like that.  I always like an underconfident person... 
HANNAH (overlapping, touching the mitt and reacting) That's really nice! 
MICKEY (still rambling on, gesturing to Hannah) ...you know?  I, uh... 
HANNAH (overlapping) You know, he's been wanting a mitt. 
She helps Twin #2 open his present.  It's a football. 
MICKEY You've always had good taste in husbands, so... 
HANNAH (chuckling and nodding) Thanks, thanks. 
MICKEY Mh-hm. 
HANNAH (leaning down to look at the football) That's a beauty! 
MICKEY Isn't that great? 
HANNAH Oh! 
MICKEY (pointing, to Twin #2) Go right over there. 
HANNAH Football! 
Twin #2, panting, runs offscreen to catch the football. 
MICKEY (to the offscreen twin) Come on!  Hurry up!  Let's go! 
HANNAH (looking offscreen at twin #2) Wow! 
MICKEY (still pointing, gearing up for the pass) Go out, go out by the Sung vase and, and catch this. 
Mickey throws the football. 
MICKEY See? (whistling) 
HANNAH (pointing offscreen) Hey, d-- Watch, watch the picture. 
There's a sound of breaking glass.  Hannah and Mickey react. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET - DAY 
Mickey is walking up a West Side street, his hands in his coat pockets.  Jazz plays in the background as he talks over the screen. 
MICKEY (V.O.) Gee, Hannah's sweet.  Although, sometimes I still do get angry when I think of things.  Oh, what the hell.  At least, I'm not paying child support. (sighing) Oh, God, I hope there's nothing physically wrong with me, either. 
Mickey pushes open the outside door of Dr. Abel's office, as the movie cuts to the doctor's consultation room.  The doctor is framed in the doorway, looking through a file cabinet. 
DR. ABEL (taking out Mickey's file) So what's the, uh, problem this time? 
MICKEY (offscreen) This time I really think I have something. 
While Mickey answers him offscreen, Dr. Abel turns and walks toward him.  The camera follows the doctor's movements from the other side of the wall, obscuring him briefly. 
It moves across a dark examining-room wall to a second doorway, where Mickey sits on a stool, continuing to talk to the offscreen Dr. Abel. 
MICKEY (onscreen) I mean, I'm absolutely convinced that-that-- You know, I mean, it's not like that adenoidal thing, you know, where I didn't realize I had them out. 
Dr. Abel walks back onscreen.  Both he and Mickey are now seen through the second doorway.  Dr. Abel sniffs and stands directly in front of the sitting Mickey.  He stares down at him as Mickey talks. 
MICKEY (continuing, gesturing) So, so, but it was when I was younger, so-- 
DR. ABEL (overlapping, interrupting) You know, I saw your father this week about his sinus... 
MICKEY (folding his arms on his chest) Mm-hm. 
DR. ABEL (continuing) ...and, uh, he complained of chest pains. 
MICKEY Well, this guy's the real hypochondriac of the family.  I mean, he's, you know, he's-- 
DR. ABEL (interrupting) You mentioned on the phone that you'd had some dizziness. 
MICKEY (rubbing his hands on his knees) Yes, a little dizziness, and I think, I think I'm developing a hearing loss in my right ear (poking at his ears and gesturing) ...or my left ear, my, my left...oh, n-n-n-no.  No, I'm sorry.  It was my right, my right, my right or my left ear. 
Dr. Abel chuckles. 
MICKEY (nodding and gesturing) Now I ca-can't remember. 
DR. ABEL Let's take a look. 
An uptempo big-band sound is heard as the movie cuts to Mickey's examination, beginning with a close-up of Dr. Abel using an otoscope to examine the ear of a nervous Mickey. Next is a hearing test.  The film shows the doctors's hands turning the dials on a sonometer.  Mickey sits on a nearby high stool, large earphones on his head.  He listens with such concentration that he squints his eyes.  He holds up a finger in response to the sounds he hears in his headset. Finally, the film shows Dr. Abel hitting a large turning fork with his finger.  He puts the vibrating fork to Mickey's ear.  Mickey, looking up at the offscreen doctor's face, nods. 
The music stops as the film cuts back to Dr. Abel's consultation room.  Dr. Abel walks from the examining room, through the consultation room, to a second examining room across the way.  He talks to the offscreen Mickey as he walks. 
DR. ABEL Well, I'm sorry to say you have had a significant drop in the high- decibel range of your right ear. 
MICKEY (offscreen) Really?! 
Dr. Abel moves offscreen in the second examining room.  The camera stays focused on the doorway to this room as the doctor and Mickey talk offscreen. 
DR. ABEL (offscreen) Have you been exposed to a loud noise recently, or did you have a virus? 
MICKEY (offscreen) No, I-I've been perfectly healthy. You know me. 
Dr. Abel briefly passes by the doorway. 
MICKEY (offscreen) I always, I-I always imagine that I have things. 
DR. ABEL (offscreen) When did you first notice this? 
GAIL (impatiently) Mickey, come on, we got a show to do! 
MICKEY (pacing) I can't keep my mind on the show. 
GAIL (offscreen) But there's nothing wrong with you. 
MICKEY (sighing and gesturing) If there's nothing wrong with me (pacing back to the desk and Gail) then why does he want me to come back for tests?! 
GAIL (gesturing) Well, he has to rule out certain things. (sighing) 
MICKEY Like what?!  What? 
GAIL (shrugging) I don't know.  Cancer, I-- 
MICKEY (interrupting) Don't say that!  I don't want to hear that word! (gesturing) Don't mention that while I'm in the building. 
GAIL (gesturing) But you don't have any symptoms! 
MICKEY (gesturing) You--I got the classic symptoms of a brain tumor! 
Mickey sighs. 
GAIL Two months ago, you thought you had a malignant melanoma. 
MICKEY (gesturing) Naturally, I, I--Do you know I--The sudden appearance of a black spot on my back! 
GAIL It was on your shirt! 
MICKEY (sighing) I--How was I to know?! (pointing to his back) Everyone was pointing back here. 
He sighs again as Gail, frustrated, gestures impatiently to the papers on the desk. 
GAIL Come on, we've got to make some booking decisions. 
Mickey begins pacing around the room again.  He wrings his hands and blows on them. 
MICKEY I can't.  I can't think of it. This morning, I was so happy, you know.  Now I, I don't know what went wrong. (sighing) 
GAIL Eh, you were miserable this morning! We got bad reviews, terrible ratings, the sponsors are furious... 
MICKEY (pacing back to the desk, still wringing his hands) No, I was happy, but I just didn't realize I was happy. 
CUT TO: 
The Stanislavski Catering Company in action. 
Sophisticated pop music plays as the film cuts to: 
INT. LOFT - DAY 
An abstract painting on a wall fills the screen.  Light laughter is heard, as well as the sophisticated music; offscreen brunch guests chatter indistinctly. 
FEMALE BRUNCH GUEST (offscreen) These things are delicious!  What in the world are they? 
Holly walks onto the screen in front of the painting.  She holds an almost empty tray of hors d'oeuvres; she wears a uniform. 
HOLLY Oh, um, those are quail eggs. 
FEMALE BRUNCH GUEST (offscreen) Oh, they're very good. 
Holly walks past the painting towards the female brunch guest.  A man walks in front of her.  Chatter, light laughter, and music are still heard; a party is in progress. 
HOLLY (nodding) Yeah, my friend April makes those. (holding out the tray) Here, try the shrimp puffs.  These are delicious. 
FEMALE BRUNCH GUEST (taking one from the tray) Oh, thank you.  That looks great. 
HOLLY I make those. 
FEMALE BRUNCH GUEST Mmm.  Thanks. 
Holly laughs lightly as she walks away from the woman. Holding her tray, she passes a large oval loft window and several clusters of brunch guests.  They are eating and drinking.  No one pays any attention to her. 
HOLLY (to two male guests in her way) Excuse me. 
One of the men, murmuring his thanks, takes a last shrimp puff as Holly passes. 
HOLLY (to the man) Thank you. 
Holly finally makes her way into the cluttered loft kitchen. Her tray is empty. 
APRIL (offscreen) The Stroganoff is ready. 
Holly, excited, runs over to April, who is busy taking the Stroganoff out of the oven.  She wears the same uniform as Holly: black skirt, white shirt, and black bowtie. 
HOLLY (animatedly) We're a big hit. 
APRIL Oh, in this we're a big hit. Yesterday I auditioned for Come Back Little Sheba.  That, I wasn't such a big hit. 
April, holding the Stroganoff, dashes out of the kitchen to serve the party guests.  Holly calls after her, offscreen, as David walks past the hurrying April into the kitchen. 
HOLLY (offscreen) You will be.  You will be.  You'll get five jobs next week. 
David walks over to Holly, who is busy at the pot-and-pan- covered stove. 
DAVID (to Holly) Excuse me, are there any more claims? 
HOLLY (gesturing at some canapés warming on the stove) Only a few.  A few. (chuckling as David takes one) Do you like 'em? 
DAVID I can't resist. 
HOLLY (busily working at the stove) Really?  How flattering!  Did you try the shrimp puffs? 
DAVID (eating a canapé and pointing at Holly) Listen, you guys are too attractive to be caterers.  Something's wrong. 
HOLLY We're actresses. 
DAVID Is this your first job? 
She shrugs. 
ELLIOT I'll never understand it.  You're so bright and charming and beautiful. 
LEE (laughing) Oh, God. 
ELLIOT (overlapping, chuckling) I think to myself (laughing) what problems could she possibly have? 
LEE (gesturing, laughing) Don't let me get started on my childhood. (stopping in her tracks, remembering) Oh, you know what?  There is a bookstore. 
ELLIOT (stopping alongside her) Yes? LEE (overlapping, pointing) A couple of blocks from here.  If you don't know about it, you should. You'd really love it. 
ELLIOT Yes? 
LEE (nodding) Yeah, you would. 
ELLIOT (looking around for a moment, then gesturing to Lee) Well, i-if-if you have some free time... 
LEE (nodding) Yeah, sure. (chuckling) 
ELLIOT Thank you. 
They begin to walk again as the movie cuts to the interior of the Pageant Book & Print Shop, an old, serious bookstore. A nude print hangs at the end of one of the library shelf- like bookcases, which are packed, row after row, with books. An unseen Elliot and Lee carry on a conversation as the camera moves down an aisle, past the rows of books.  A piano playing "Bewitched" is heard.  Pictures hang on the aisle ends of the shelves. 
LEE (offscreen) Isn't this great? (chuckling) They have everything here. 
ELLIOT (offscreen, distracted) Yes, it's-it's wonderful. 
LEE (offscreen) What book did you want to buy? ELLIOT (offscreen) What?  Book? 
LEE (offscreen) Your book?  You wanted to buy a book? 
The camera moves past another aisle of books to reveal Lee, browsing through a shelf. 
ELLIOT (offscreen) Oh, book?  Oh, no, I... (laughing) I'm killing time.  I...I-I just, uh, w-want to browse, uh... 
LEE (looking up at a row of books) Well, you sure picked the right place.  I mean, you can stay here all afternoon, not buy anything and just read. 
She walks down a center aisle, the camera still in its parallel aisle, following her. 
ELLIOT (offscreen) Unless, of course, if-if you had some time, I mean, we could get some coffee. 
LEE No, I don't have time. 
Lee stops at the row where Elliot has been browsing.  She is hidden by a shelf; only Elliot is seen as he talks to the offscreen Lee. 
ELLIOT (gesturing) No, no.  I-I-I understand completely. No problem.  Y-you're busy.  I-I-I... 
LEE (offscreen, chuckling) You seem tense.  Is everything all right?  You feel okay? 
ELLIOT (overlapping) No!  No... 
LEE (offscreen) No? 
ELLIOT (gesturing, looking at books) Uh, yes! 
LEE (offscreen) Yes? 
Elliot starts walking down the center aisle, in the same direction Lee had walked up.  He continues to talk to her as she remains offscreen in a nearby row. 
ELLIOT (offscreen momentarily, hidden by a shelf as he talks) Yes. 
LEE (offscreen) Everything's okay? (chuckling) 
ELLIOT Yeah.  How are you? 
LEE (offscreen) I'm...all right. 
ELLIOT (offscreen momentarily, hidden by another shelf as he walks) How-how's Frederick? 
Elliot stops walking to browse through some books. "Bewitched" still plays. 
LEE (offscreen) Fine.  Oh, we went to the Caravaggio exhibition at the Met.  It's such a treat to go through a museum with Frederick.  I mean...you learn so much.  Do you like Caravaggio? 
ELLIOT (turning to talk to the offscreen Lee) Oh, yes.  Who doesn't? (pointing) Look! 
Elliot turns and walks back down the center aisle to a row of books he'd already passed. 
ELLIOT (pointing to a book on a shelf, continuing) e.e. cummings.  I'd like to get you this. 
LEE (offscreen, laughing) Oh, no, I can't let you get me that. That's too much. 
ELLIOT (pulling the book off the shelf and browsing through it) Oh, oh, yes.  I-I-I-'d like to, uh, uh, very much. 
LEE (offscreen) No, I don't think so. 
ELLIOT (gesturing with the book, looking at the offscreen Lee) I-I read a poem of you and thought of his last week. (nervously laughing, trying to correct his mistake) A poem of (laughing) his and thought of you last-- (laughing) You'll be fine, though. (chuckling) Lee walks over to Elliot in the center aisle.  She looks at the book. 
LEE (overlapping) Uh, uh, this is great.  I mean, I love e.e. cummings, but I can't let you get this. 
ELLIOT (overlapping, patting the book) Yes, I'd...I-I-I'd love, I'd love to get you this. 
LEE (looking down at the book) Well, sure. 
ELLIOT (overlapping) And-and maybe, um...maybe we could discuss it sometime. 
He hands Lee the book.  She thumbs through it, as the movie cuts to: 
The street outside the bookstore.  Lee, holding the book in a brown bag, and Elliot are walking out. 
LEE (laughing, holding up the bag) Well, thanks a lot. 
ELLIOT (pointing to the bookstore) Thanks for showing me the bookstore. Perhaps you could, uh, take me to an AA meeting sometime.  Uh...uh, I'd love to see what goes on. 
LEE (nodding) Well, yeah, yeah.  You'd love it. It's really entertaining.  You'd have a good time. (stepping closer to the curb and hailing a cab) I know you would. 
ELLIOT (pointing to the book) And, uh, d-don't forget the poem on page a hundred and twelve.  It reminded me of you. 
DR. SMITH (offscreen) I'm afraid not. 
MICKEY Well, I gotta get a second opinion. 
HANNAH (turning to Mickey) This is the second opinion. 
MICKEY (shrugging) Well, then a third opinion. 
Dr. Smith walks back to his high-backed leather chair behind the desk and sits down.  As he talks, the camera moves closer and closer to his face. 
DR. SMITH I realize this is a blow.  My experience is that many very fine marriages become unstable and are destroyed by an inability to deal with this sort of problem.  I hope you won't make too much of it.  One can adopt children, and there are various artificial methods of fertilization. 
CUT TO: EXT. GROVE STREET IN GREENWICH VILLAGE - DAY 
Mickey and Hannah walk on the sidewalk, oblivious of the passing pedestrians.  Hannah, crying, blows her nose. 
MICKEY (gesturing) I'm so humiliated.  I don't know what to say.  I mean-- 
HANNAH (interrupting, wiping her eyes with her tissue) Could you have ruined yourself somehow? 
MICKEY (gesturing) How could I ruin myself?  What do you mean, ruin myself? 
HANNAH (overlapping, looking at Mickey) I don't know.  Excessive masturbation? 
MICKEY Hey, you gonna start knocking my hobbies?  Jesus! 
Hannah sobs, clutching her tissue to her face. 
MICKEY Maybe, maybe we can adopt a child. He said you could adopt one-- 
HANNAH (interrupting) Well, what about artificial insemination? 
MICKEY (gesturing) What are you talking about? 
HANNAH (overlapping) You know, where I-I-I would get implanted from a-a donor. 
MICKEY (reacting) What, by a st-stranger? 
Deep in conversation, they cross a tree-lined street.  They pass a yellow wood-frame house bordered by a wrought-iron fence. 
HANNAH Yeah, they have these banks, you know, where they keep them frozen. 
MICKEY (gesturing) Fro--?  You want a-a defrosted kid? Is that your idea? 
HANNAH I want to experience childbirth. 
MICKEY With a, with a stranger?  With a-- 
HANNAH (interrupting, sniffing) Just think about it.  That's all I ask. 
They walk offscreen and the film cuts to Hannah and Mickey's living room.  The room is brightly lit; it's cluttered with pillows and plants.  Norman and Carol, his wife, sit on the couch drinking coffee. 
CAROL (putting down her cup) Oh, that was a wonderful show.  I think that's the best show you two ever wrote. 
NORMAN (holding his cup, pointing emphatically) No, the funniest show that Mickey and I ever did was the one we won the Emmy for. 
Mickey walks from the kitchen into the living room, holding a half-eaten chocolate cake on a serving plate.  The sun pours through the windows he passes.  Hannah is briefly seen in the background, preparing more coffee in the kitchen. 
MICKEY Yeah...I-I think as, I think as far as laughs, I mean just plain laughs, you know, that was probably the best thing that we ever did. 
Mickey puts the cake down on the coffee table, which is already crowded with assorted plants, plates, and a bamboo tray holding utensils and napkins. 
NORMAN (agreeing) Mm-hm. 
CAROL (overlapping, her hands over her crossed knees and nodding) Yeah, it was funny, it was very funny.  But the show was about the two Frenchmen, now that was funny and it was warm. 
Mickey sighs and flops down on an adjoining couch.  He rubs his forehead. 
NORMAN (to Carol, gesturing with his cup) We got that idea on that trip to Paris. 
CAROL (nodding) Right. 
NORMAN (smiling) Hmm? 
CAROL (to the offscreen Hannah) Do you remember that summer in France?  Hannah, you had jet lag for six straight weeks. 
Norman chuckles. 
MICKEY (sighing, almost mumbling) Yeah, but it was, you know, I guess we had fun when we were there and, you know, it's just, I-- 
NORMAN (overlapping, nodding) Mm-hm. 
Hannah walks over to the group, holding a pot of coffee. She awkwardly steps past Mickey to pour coffee for Norman and Carol. 
HANNAH (to Mickey) Sorry. (to Norman and Carol) Coffee?  Listen, you guys, we were-- You want some more? 
NORMAN (holding out his cup) Mmm. 
HANNAH (refilling Norman's cup) We-we...we had something we-we really wanted to discuss with you. 
MICKEY (overlapping, coughing) Yeah... 
Hannah refills Carol's cup.  She puts the pot down on the coffee table and sits down next to Mickey. 
MICKEY (standing up and gesturing) Jeez, this is, this is, this is very delicate and-and I only bring this up amongst friends, you know. 
He starts to pace.  Hannah, her hands clasped near her face, glances briefly at Carol. 
MICKEY (turning to the group as he paces behind the couch) I mean... (grunting) this is, uh... this should not go any further than this room. 
NORMAN (sipping his coffee) I'm all ears. 
Hannah sighs.  Mickey pauses for a moment, collecting his thoughts. 
MICKEY (gesturing and pacing) Hannah and I...can't have any children.  Now I-I-I don't want to get into whose fault it-- (gesturing) It's my fault that we can't and- and-and the details are too embarrassing to-- 
HANNAH (interrupting, nervously picking at her fingers) W-w-we-we've decided after a lot of discussion that we-we'd try with artificial insemination. 
ELLIOT But-but, but how about you?  Do you, do you share any of my feelings? Or is this just an unpleasant embarrassment to you? 
LEE (reacting uneasily) I can't say anything! 
ELLIOT W-well, please be candid.  I, I-I don't want you to feel bad. 
LEE (putting her hand to her head) Yes!  But I...I have certain feelings for you, but don't make me say anything more, all right? 
Lee looks at him. 
ELLIOT (gesturing) O-o-o-okay, Lee.  Okay, okay.  You, you, y-you've said enough.  It's my responsibility now.  I will work things out. 
LEE Look, don't do anything on my behalf. (shaking her head) I live with Frederick, and Hannah and I are close. 
ELLIOT Yes, but you, you do care about me. 
LEE (reacting) Oh, Elliot, please!  I can't be a party to this!  I'm suddenly wracked with guilt just standing her talking to you on the street! 
She sighs. 
ELLIOT (emphatically) Your guilt is because you feel the same. 
LEE (reacting) Oh, please, I have to go.  I have to get my teeth cleaned. 
She walks off.  Elliot stares after her, grinning. 
ELLIOT (happily) I have my answer.  I have my answer! I'm walking on air! 
He laughs. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. STREET CORNER OUTSIDE EVAN AND NORMA'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 
A taxi turns a West Side street corner and stops in front of Evan and Norma's building, which is decorated with a long metal awning.  It's an overcast day. 
A station wagon on the opposite side of the street pulls away as Hannah, a white scarf fluttering over her shoulder, gets out of the cab.  She runs into the building; the taxi drives away.  A piano plays "Bewitched" over the screen. 
CUT TO: 
INT. EVAN AND NORMA'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Evan, his back to the camera, walks to the front door and opens it to Hannah. 
HANNAH (distracted) Hi.  How's she doing? 
EVAN (overlapping) I am glad to see you. 
Hannah takes off her shoulder bag and her coat as her aggravated father walks past her towards the kitchen.  He passes a wall with an ornate mirror and some framed photographs. 
EVAN She's in the kitchen there.  It's the same thing.  Same thing.  She promises, promises. (gesturing) But it's all lies. 
Through a doorway, Norma can be seen sitting on a chair in the kitchen.  She wears a robe over a slip and stockings; she's drinking.  Evan stands in the doorway looking at her; he doesn't go in. 
HANNAH (offscreen, patiently) Don't make it worse, Dad. 
EVAN (overlapping) Always. 
Hannah hurriedly passes her father and enters the kitchen; her mother takes a sip of her drink. 
HANNAH Hi, Mom.  How you doing?  Here, let me get you some coffee.  That's enough of that. (taking away her mother's drink, to Evan) What triggered it? 
EVAN (gesturing, as Norma turns her head and watches him) We were making a commercial down at the mayor's office, and there was this young, good-looking salesman... 
Norma reacts, turning to her daughter.  Hannah, however, has her back turned.  She is busy taking charge in the kitchen as Evan speaks.  She takes some pills out of a cupboard and hands them to her mother with a glass of water. 
EVAN (continuing) ...and your mother was throwing herself at him in a disgusting way, and when she found she was too old to seduce him, that he was just embarrassed by her-- 
NORMA (angrily interrupting, turning her head) Liar!  Liar! 
The camera moves to Evan, who continues to tell his story, ignoring his wife's outburst, as he walks away from the kitchen doorway into the den. 
EVAN Then at lunch she got drunker and drunker (shouting over his shoulder) and finally she became Joan Collins! 
Evan walks over to the piano, where several framed family photographs sit in a line on its top.  He picks one up as Norma speaks offscreen in the kitchen. 
NORMA (offscreen) All my life I've had to put up with insults... 
The camera moves back to the kitchen as Norma talks.  She is still glaring offscreen at the doorway where Evan stood moments before.  She holds the water glass and the pills. NORMA (continuing, dramatically) ...from this non-person, this, th- th-this haircut that passes for a man. (turning to look at the offscreen Hannah) He could never support us.  It's a good thing we had a talented daughter! 
Evan is back in the doorway, listening to Norma, getting more and more angry.  As he makes a retort, he starts to walk back to the den and his piano. 
EVAN I can only hope that she was mine. With you as her mother (gesturing, his voice getting louder) her father could be anybody in Actors' Equity! 
NORMA She's talented...so it's not likely she's yours! (taking a sip of water) 
HANNAH (walking over to the doorway to speak to Evan, who's already fuming in the den) Dad, could you just please stay in the other room and let me take care of her? 
Hannah goes back to Norma; she takes the glass of water away. 
EVAN (offscreen, choosing to ignore Hannah's suggestion) You never know when she's going to fall off the wagon and humiliate everybody. 
Hannah, choosing to ignore Evan's remark, hands her mother a cup of coffee; she puts her mother's hands on the cup. 
HANNAH Here, Mom.  Drink this. (leaning against a kitchen counter) You know, you're awful.  You probably were flirting. 
NORMA (sipping her coffee) No!  I like to joke around and have fun, and he gets angry because I get the attention.  He's gotten sourer as he's gotten older, and I've tried to stay young...at heart. 
HANNAH You promised to stay on the wagon. 
NORMA (shaking her head) The sacrifices I've made because of that man. (inhaling) He's ruined me with his ego, his philandering, his-- (gesturing) his-his-his-his mediocrity! 
HANNAH Okay, stop being so dramatic. 
NORMA (shouting to the offscreen Evan) He's the one that's made every ingenue in stock! 
HANNAH (quietly) Okay, okay. 
MICKEY No, I'm not dying now, but, but (gesturing) you know, when I ran out of the hospital, I, I was so thrilled because they told me I was going to be all right.  And I'm running down the street, and suddenly I stop, 'cause it hit me, all right, so, you know, I'm not going to go today. I'm okay.  I'm not going to go tomorrow. (pointing) But eventually, I'm going to be in that position. 
Gail gets up from her chair.  She walks past Mickey to a nearby cabinet.  She opens a drawer, rummaging around for something.  The camera follows her, leaving Mickey briefly. 
GAIL You're just realizing this now? 
MICKEY (offscreen) Well, I don't realize it now, I know it all the time, but, but I managed to stick it in the back of my mind... 
As Mickey continues to talk offscreen, Gail closes the cabinet drawer and walks to a file cabinet behind Mickey's desk. 
MICKEY ...because it-it's a very horrible thing to... think about! 
Gail opens the file cabinet and takes out a pack of gum. She slams it closed, distracted. 
GAIL (muttering) Yeah.  What? 
MICKEY (turning to Gail) Can I tell you something?  Can I tell you a secret? 
GAIL (nodding impatiently as she walks around the desk) Yes, please. 
MICKEY (pointing) A week ago, I bought a rifle. 
GAIL (sitting on the arm of a chair near Mickey) No. 
MICKEY (overlapping, nodding and gesturing) I went into a store, I bought a rifle.  I was gonna... You know, if they told me that I had a tumor, I was going to kill myself.  The only thing that mighta stopped me, might've, is my parents would be devastated.  I would, I woulda had to shoot them, also, first.  And then, I have an aunt and uncle, I would have... You know, it would have been a bloodbath. 
GAIL (shrugging, unwrapping a stick of gum) Tch, well, you know, eventually it, it is going to happen to all of us. 
MICKEY Yes, but doesn't that ruin everything for you?  That makes everything... 
Gail sighs.  She pops a piece of gum into her mouth as Mickey continues to speak. 
MICKEY (continuing) ...you know it, it just takes the pleasure out of everything. (gesturing, pointing) I mean, you're gonna die, I'm gonna die, the audience is gonna die, the network's gonna-- The sponsor. Everything! 
GAIL (chewing) I know, I know, and your hamster. 
MICKEY (nodding emphatically) Yes! 
GAIL (chewing and pointing to Mickey) Listen, kid, I think you snapped your cap. 
Mickey sighs. 
GAIL (continuing, chewing loudly) Maybe you need a few weeks in Bermuda, or something.  Or go to a whorehouse!  No? 
MICKEY (shaking his head, his hand to his chest) I can't stay on this show.  I gotta get some answers.  Otherwise (pausing and holding his head) I'm telling you, I'm going to do something drastic. 
CUT TO: 
The entrance to the St. Regis Hotel, elegant and warmly lit in the night.  Pedestrians pass.  Baroque harpsichord music plays over the scene.  The camera moves up the hotel's façade, past its welcoming flags, to its ornate windows several floors up. 
As the harpsichord continues to play, the film moves inside, to one of the hotel rooms.  Elliot, his back to the camera, is opening the door to Lee. 
Elliot closes the door behind her as she enters.  They stand very close to each other, framed by the door and a stark, subtly striped wallpapered wall. 
ELLIOT (looking intensely at Lee, his hands in his pockets) I thought you weren't coming. 
LEE I almost didn't. 
ELLIOT (putting his hand on her shoulder, wanting to kiss her) Lee... uh... 
LEE I didn't sleep all night. 
ELLIOT (taking his hand away, gesturing to the room) No, no-no-no, I'm sure. 
They walk towards the camera, further into the room.  Elliot puts his arm around Lee. 
LEE What are we doing, meeting in a hotel room?  It's terrible, isn't it? 
The music stops.  The camera follows Lee as she walks towards the curtained windows, past a fireplace, a mirror, some innocuous pictures, a delicate table holding a lamp, the foot of the bed. 
ELLIOT (offscreen) I-I couldn't think where to invite you without taking risks. 
LEE I promised myself I wouldn't let this happen till you were living alone.  I was so torn when you called. 
She parts a corner of the curtains, looking out the window, turning when Elliot speaks. 
ELLIOT (offscreen) I've wanted to call you everyday since I first told you how I felt. 
He walks over to Lee by the curtained windows. 
ELLIOT I resisted so many times. (pausing) Don't think badly of me. 
He takes Lee into his arms. 
ELLIOT This is not an easy situation. 
LEE (whispering) I know it isn't. 
They kiss, their figures almost silhouetted in the warm glow of the room.  Elliot takes Lee's coat off without breaking the kiss.  They embrace.  They kiss each other lightly, then stronger, more passionately, their embrace much tighter. 
And it's later that night.  The harpsichord music begins to play again as the camera moves over the bed covers to reveal Lee, lying contentedly under the sheets, her hair fanned out on the pillows, one arm near her head. 
LEE That was just perfect.  You've ruined me for anyone else. 
ELLIOT (offscreen) I don't want anyone else ever to have you. 
LEE (sighing) I was so worried I wouldn't compare with Hannah. 
ELLIOT (offscreen, laughing) Oh, my God. 
He enters the screen, sitting down on the edge of the bed next to Lee.  He holds a cigarette. 
ELLIOT You really do have those thoughts, don't you? 
LEE (chuckling, touching Elliot's arm) Oh, all the time. 
Elliot chuckles; they hold hands. 
FREDERICK So you met somebody else? 
LEE (sighing, nodding) Yeah. 
Frederick cringes, reacting.  He puts his hand to his forehead; he sighs. 
LEE (walking into the bathroom) But you, God, you knew that was going to happen sooner or later.  I can't live like this! 
FREDERICK (turning to face Lee in the bathroom, his arms crossed) Who is it? 
LEE (frantically putting things in her purse, glaring at Frederick) What's the difference?!  It's just somebody I met! 
FREDERICK But who?  Where did you meet him? 
LEE It doesn't make a difference!  I have to move out! 
FREDERICK You are, you are my only connection to the world! 
Lee turns and faces Frederick in the bathroom doorway. 
LEE (gesturing emotionally) Oh, God, that's too much responsibility for me.  It's not fair!  I want a less complicated life, Frederick.  I want a husband, maybe even a child before it's too late. 
FREDERICK (reacting, his face in his hand) Jesus...Jesus! 
LEE (gesturing, moving closer to Frederick) Oh, God, I don't even know what I want. 
FREDERICK (sighing heavily, reacting) Oh... 
LEE (rubbing Frederick's shoulder tenderly) Tch, oh, what do you get out of me, anyway?  I mean... (laying her head against his shoulder, sighing deeply) it's not sexual anymore.  It's certainly not intellectual.  I mean, you're so superior to me in every way that-- 
Frederick furiously shakes Lee away.  He pounds his fist against a cupboard.  Lee, gasping, moves away. 
FREDERICK Please, don't patronize me! 
He puts his hand on his forehead, then turns to the offscreen Lee. 
FREDERICK God!  I should have married you years ago when you wanted to!  I should have agreed. 
He walks over to Lee in another area of the kitchen. 
LEE (sighing) Oh, God, don't you know it never would have worked? 
Frederick turns away from Lee.  He begins to pace near the counter. 
FREDERICK I told you, one day you would leave me... (leaning on the counter) for a younger man.  I-- 
He loudly pounds his fist on the counter in despair and frustration, then covers his eyes with his hands in sorrow. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HANNAH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Hannah, wearing a plaid shirt, sits up in bed, a book propped up on her knees.  A cupboard with some bric-a-brac is mounted behind the night table, which holds a small, white, warm-glowing lamp and some photographs.  She turns the page as Elliot, in pajamas and silk bathrobe, enters. She continues to read her book as he sits down at the edge of the bed and muses.  His voice is heard over the screen. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) What passion today with Lee.  She's a volcano.  It was a totally fulfilling experience... Just as I dreamed it would be. (nodding slightly as he takes off his slippers) That's what it was.  It was like living out a dream...a great dream. (taking off his bathrobe) Now I feel very good and cozy being here next to Hannah.  There's something very lovely and real about Hannah. (tossing his bathrobe aside and lying down on the bed next to Hannah, his hands crossed over his stomach) She gives me a very deep feeling of being part of something.  She's a wonderful woman...and I betrayed her.  She came into my empty life and changed it...and I paid her back by banging her sister in a hotel room.  God, I'm despicable. What a cruel and shallow thing to do. (sitting up) I have to call her now and tell her what we did was crazy. (anxiously) It can't ever happen again.  I'm not that kind of man...and I value Hannah too much.  I love my wife. Now I've betrayed her.  Oh, God! 
Elliot frantically stands up and leaves the room. 
HANNAH (reading, not looking up) Where're you going? 
ELLIOT (offscreen) I've, uh...gotta find, gotta get a phone number in my desk.  I forgot to phone Mel Kaufman. 
HANNAH (still reading) It's so late. 
ELLIOT (offscreen) Yeah, I know.  I-I can't believe I forgot. 
Elliot walks quickly into the darkened hallway. 
ELLIOT (muttering) What if he answers? (turning into the doorway leading to the living room) I'll hang up. (walking into the darkened living room) I'll tell her we can't communicate until I terminate my marriage. (whispering) It's immoral. 
Elliot switches on the light.  He paces back and forth in front of the piano and an accompanying music stand.  The top of the piano is filled with family photos; the lamp he turned on illuminates some framed pictures on the wall and the piece of sheet music open on the piano. 
ELLIOT (gesturing and whispering) Then, time will pass.  I won't call, and she'll get the idea.  I gotta stop this before I get in too deep.  I'd rather hurt Lee a little, than destroy Hannah. 
Elliot stops pacing and checks his wristwatch. 
ELLIOT (whispering, rubbing his hands) It's one-thirty.  She...she can't have a conversation with me...with him around.  I'm getting hysterical. (putting his hands on his hips) I'll call her first thing in the morning.  I'll call her at six. (pointing) Frederick goes jogging at six, yeah, she'll be alone.  And I'll, I'll call her and nip it in the bud. 
The phone rings.  Elliot jumps. 
ELLIOT (loudly, to the offscreen Hannah, gasping) I've got it!  I've got it!  I've got it! (picking up the phone, into the telephone) Hello? (loudly, for the offscreen Hannah's benefit) Mel! 
The movie cuts to Lee, standing in the dark in Frederick's loft.  She talks softly into the telephone. 
LEE (into the telephone) I would have hung up if you hadn't answered and I promise I won't ever do this again, but I just had to tell you, I feel very close to you tonight.  Very, very close. (pausing) Good night. 
Lee hangs up the phone and the movie cuts back to Elliot, standing in his living room.  Stunned, he slowly lowers the phone receiver. 
CUT TO: 
"The only absolute knowledge attainable by man is that life is meaningless." - Tolstoy 
Jazz is heard as the movie cuts to the outside of a university library, the camera focused on a huge replica of Rodin's Thinker before moving to the front entrance.  Mickey can be seen emerging from its depths.  He wears his raincoat, his hands are in his pockets.  He ponders the scene as he walks past the statue and a small front garden and down the sidewalk.  Passersby, some holding books, are seen. 
MICKEY (V.O.) Millions of books written on every conceivable subject by all these great minds, and, and in the end, none of 'em knows anything more about the big questions of life than I do.  Ss--I read Socrates. You know, n-n-n--, this guy used to kn-knock off little Greek boys. What the hell's he got to teach me? And, and Nietzsche with his, with his Theory of Eternal Recurrence. He said that the life we live, we're gonna live over and over again the exact same way for eternity.  Great.  That means I, uh, I'll have to sit through the Ice Capades again.  Tch.  It's not worth it. 
The movie next cuts to a sunny day in Central Park.  A male jogger, seen through some tree branches, runs by.  The camera moves past him, revealing a pondering Mickey walking by the reservoir.  He continues to talk over the screen. 
MICKEY (V.O.) And, and Freud, another great pessimist.  Jeez, I was in analysis for years.  Nothing happened.  My poor analyst got so frustrated. The guy finally put in a salad bar. 
Several joggers pass Mickey; he continues to ruminate. 
MICKEY (V.O.) Oh!  Look at all these people jogging...trying to stave off the inevitable decay of the body.  Boy (smacking his lips) it's so sad what people go through with their-their stationary bike and their exercise and their... (glancing at a fat woman jogger in a red sweatsuit who runs by) ...Oh!  Look at this one!  Poor thing.  My God, she has to tote all that fat around.  Maybe the poets are right.  Maybe love is the only answer. 
Mickey goes over to the chain-link fence encircling the reservoir.  He stops walking and looks out over the water. 
MICKEY (V.O.) Shh--Of course, I was in love with Hannah.  That didn't work out too well. (sighing) I even took her sister out. Remember that? 
HOLLY I was so bored! 
MICKEY (gesturing) Yeah, that's tough!  You don't deserve Cole Porter.  You should stay with those groups that look like they're gonna stab their mother! 
HOLLY At least I'm open to new concepts! 
MICKEY And you don't have to snort cocaine at the table all the time!  What do you, what do you do?  Carry a kilo around in your purse? 
HOLLY (gesturing) This crowd wouldn't know the difference!  They're embalmed! 
MICKEY Jesus... (waving his arm and whistling for a taxi) I'm glad Hannah got us together. You know, she's got a great instinct for people.  Really. 
A taxi pulls up to the curb.  Mickey and Holly walk up to its rear door. 
HOLLY Oh, look, I'm sorry it didn't work out. 
MICKEY (overlapping) Yeah.  Me, too. 
HOLLY (overlapping) You know, it's probably my fault. I've been a little depressed lately. 
MICKEY (overlapping) Right.  Yeah.  I had a... 
HOLLY (overlapping) God! 
MICKEY (continuing) ...I had a great time tonight, really.  It was like the Nuremberg Trials. 
He holds the door open for Holly.  She gets in. 
HOLLY (angrily) Oh, I'll see myself home! 
Holly slams the door.  Mickey starts to walk along the sidewalk as the taxi drives off; he passes the hotel and several evening-lit store windows. "I'm In Love Again" begins to play in the background as Mickey's voice is heard. 
MICKEY (V.O.) Yeah, it was quite an evening. Holly with her cocaine... (chuckling) She should have been wearing a gold shovel around her neck.  Tch, she was polymorphously insensitive, I think. (smacking his lips) Too bad, too... 'cause, you know, I always had a little crush on her. 
Both a bus and a taxi drive down the street, blocking Mickey from view.  The music stops and the film cuts to: 
Afternoons. 
A big-band rendition of "You Made Me Love You" begins as the film cuts to a hotel room.  Elliot and Lee can be seen dancing cheek to cheek in the reflection of a mirror over a dresser.  A TV sits in the corner.  A lamp is on one side of the dresser; on the other side is a bucket with champagne. Two half-full glasses sit nearby.  Elliot and Lee dance into view.  Without missing a beat, Elliot picks up one of the glasses of champagne and hands it to Lee.  She sips.  Elliot sips, then puts it back down on the dresser.  They embrace tightly, continuing to dance. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HANNAH'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Elliot, Hannah, and the twins sit at the dining room table. A Christmas tree stands in the corner of the room, next to a table holding a lamp; a picture hangs on the wall.  The family has just finished eating; the table is cluttered with the remains of dinner, including a quart of milk, some chocolate syrup, and a bottle of ketchup.  Hannah's two adopted children stand by her chair; she is showing them how a small camera works.  The children watch her, fascinated, muttering among themselves.  Elliot looks listless.  He stares blankly at the table. 
HANNAH (to her adopted children, holding the camera) Oh, you just have to read the instructions.  I mean, you just set one of these things and you can take, you can take pictures underwater. 
CHILD 1 (overlapping) Can I try it? 
HANNAH (handing him the camera) Sure!  Yeah.  When we get to the country, we'll try it in the lake. 
The child takes the camera from Hannah, as well as picking up a second identical one from the table. 
CHILD 1 Okay. 
HANNAH (resting her chin in her hands) Okay? 
CHILD 2 (overlapping) Can I go? 
CHILD 1 (overlapping) Yeah. 
HANNAH (nodding) Yeah!  Okay. 
The adopted children leave, the twins going off with them. When they're gone, Hannah takes a sip of her coffee and looks at Elliot.  She puts down her cup, still watching him. 
HANNAH (after a beat) Are you in a bad mood? 
ELLIOT (shaking his head slightly) I don't know.  Um...I'm just antsy. 
The camera moves in on their faces as they continue to speak. Family photos line the mantel behind Hannah's head. 
HANNAH (intensely) Yes.  I know.  The last few weeks, you haven't been yourself.  And tonight at, tonight at dinner, you, you were kind of curt with me. 
ELLIOT (looking down at his hands) Was I? 
HANNAH Yes, you were.  A-and when I, when I brought up the idea of having a baby, you just, you jumped down my throat. 
ELLIOT (shaking his head) Well, I-I don't think it's a very good idea. 
HANNAH Why not? 
ELLIOT (edgily) Because it's the last thing in the world we need right now. 
HANNAH Why do you say that?  Is there something wrong? 
ELLIOT I don't know. 
HANNAH Well, tell me.  Should I be worried? 
ELLIOT But, you got four children! 
HANNAH I want one with you. 
ELLIOT Well...I-I think we should wait till things settle. 
HANNAH But what do, what do you-- (stuttering) what's that mean?  W-w-we've been, we've been married for four years. How settled can things get? 
ELLIOT (gesturing) You know, y-you have some very set plans on how your life should be structured.  A-a house, uh, kids, certain schools, a h--, a home in Connecticut.  I-it's all very...preconceived. 
HANNAH (shaking her head) Yeah, but I...uh--I thought you needed that.  When-when-when we met, you said your life was chaos. 
ELLIOT I-I-I know, but there's got to be some give and take. 
Hannah sighs.  Elliot angrily throws his napkin on the table. He stands up and begins to pace behind Hannah. 
ELLIOT Oh, let's not--I, I don't know what the hell I'm talking about. 
HOLLY Well...you know, uh...I sing a little, I mean... (chuckling self-consciously) 
HANNAH (realizing she's hurt Holly, reacting) Ohh! 
HOLLY (overlapping, shaking her head) You know. 
HANNAH (hanging the blouse back on the rack) I know, no-- (chuckling) I know. 
HOLLY (overlapping, still chuckling self- consciously, gesturing) I mean, y-you know, don't say it that way, you know, because my confidence is not my strong point, I-- 
HANNAH (interrupting, touching her sister's shoulder) No, I'm sorry.  No, I didn't mean that.  No, I didn't mean that. 
The two sisters walk away from the rack, Hannah slightly in the lead.  Behind them are some more racks of clothing and a large window with closed venetian blinds. 
HOLLY (gesturing) Uh, you know, I think I can fake my way through a song. 
HANNAH (nodding as she looks around the store, pulling up her shoulder bag strap) Uh-huh. 
HOLLY Easily. 
Holly pauses, looking at her sister.  They continue to walk. 
HOLLY (looking at Hannah) W-why?  You don't think it's realistic? 
HANNAH (putting her hand on Holly's shoulder) No, I didn't, I, that's no.  No, I- I-I, no, I-I just... (gesturing) hate to see you put yourself in a position where, where you get hurt, you know.  You know, you know how you take... 
HOLLY (overlapping, nodding) Yeah. 
They walk over to a table laid out with colorful scarves and decorated with hurricane lamps bordering its edges. 
HANNAH (continuing, looking at some clothes hanging beneath the table) ...every, eh, single rejection as- as-as a...a confirmation that you have no talent, or something? 
HOLLY (overlapping, nodding) Yeah.  Well, maybe I'll get it. (chuckling and gesturing) 
HANNAH (overlapping, looking at the clothes) I hope. 
Holly looks at her sister for a beat. 
HOLLY (sighing) Boy, you really know how to cut me down. 
HANNAH (looking at Holly, reacting) What?  You don't, don't be so sensitive.  Can't I say anything? 
HOLLY (gesturing) Tch, well, I sing! (suddenly shouting) For Chrissake, Hannah, you heard me sing! 
A female customer, who'd come over to the table, browsing through the rack of clothes near Hannah, looks up, reacting. She walks away. 
HANNAH (overlapping, reacting to her sister's outburst) Okay! (looking at her sister) Okay.  I-- What happened?  You know, we were having a really nice time, a-and suddenly, everything went to bad feeling. 
She walks past Holly and briefly looks at a different rack of clothes beneath the table. 
HOLLY (shaking her head) Nobody but you can do that to me. I don't know why. 
HANNAH (gesturing) Look, everything's going your way. 
She walks offscreen to a nearby rack; the camera remains focused on Holly. 
HOLLY You're right. (pausing) I'm happy. (shrugging, looking at the offscreen Hannah) Why must I let my insecurities spoil everything? 
Holly chuckles and begins to look through the scarves on the table. 
CUT TO: 
INT. THEATER - DAY 
A group of theater executives, including the producer, the director, and two assistants, sit in a cluster in the empty audience, talking; they look up at the offscreen Holly, who is auditioning on the stage.  She is singing "I'm Old- Fashioned," accompanied by a piano. 
HOLLY (offscreen, singing softly) "This year's fancies Are passing fancies..." 
The film moves from the audience to the stage where Holly, her hands clasped in front of her, continues to sing her song.  A large group of other hopefuls are seen in the background behind her. 
HOLLY (continuing her singing, barely moving her body) "But sighing sighs Holding hands This my heart Understands I'm old-fashioned And I don't mind it It's how I want to be As long as you agree To stay old-fashioned with me." 
The camera moves from Holly back to the executives in the audience.  As it passes the empty audience seats, they are heard offscreen. 
PRODUCER (offscreen) Thank you. 
DIRECTOR (offscreen) Thank you. 
PRODUCER (offscreen) It was very nice. 
ASSISTANT #1 (offscreen, overlapping) Terrific. 
The camera has reached the executives in the audience.  They are now chattering among themselves, Holly forgotten. 
STAGE MANAGER (offscreen, overlapping the executives' chatter) April Knox? 
The film cuts back to the stage, where April, handling the audition pianist some sheet music, prepares herself to sing "The Way You Look Tonight." The stage is very black, stark, except for April and the pianist. 
APRIL (singing) "Someday When I'm awfully low When the world is cold I will get a glow Just thinking of you And the way you look Tonight..." 
CUT TO: 
EXT. A STREET OUTSIDE THE THEATER - DAY 
A theater marquee can be seen on the busy street as Holly and April walk down the street towards the camera, moving closer and closer as they talk.  Workmen and various street noises can be heard indistinctly in the background. 
HOLLY I'm telling you, you sounded great. You, uh, you may be surprised. 
APRIL (sighing) Oh, I'm just glad we have a catering job this week.  I'm real low on money. 
HOLLY Yeah, we have Mr. Morris Levine's eightieth birthday party on Riverside Drive...or Riverside Memorial Chapel, depending on his health. 
APRIL Oh, uh, listen, David called me up. 
HOLLY (reacting) What? 
APRIL (gesturing) Uh, David called me last night, and he wants to take me to the opera. (chuckling) I didn't know what to say. 
MICKEY Well, it certainly doesn't look promising. 
Mickey stops at the bathroom door at the other end of the hallway.  He starts to pound it. 
FATHER (offscreen) Who knows what'll be? 
Mickey's father comes back on screen; he's carrying a plate of hors d'oeuvres and an empty glass towards the kitchen. He stops and looks down the hall at Mickey, who's now struggling to open the bathroom door. 
FATHER (gesturing with his hands full) I'll either be unconscious or I won't.  If not, I'll deal with it then.  I'm not gonna worry now about what's gonna be when I'm unconscious. 
MICKEY (pounding on the door) Mom, come out! 
MOTHER (offscreen in the bathroom) Of course there's a God, you idiot! You don't believe in God? 
MICKEY (sighing) But if there's a God, then wh-why is there so much evil in the world? (shrugging) What-- Just on a simplistic level. Why-why were there Nazis? 
MOTHER (offscreen in the bathroom) Tell him, Max. 
Mickey, reacting, hits his forehead. 
FATHER (offscreen) How the hell do I know why there were Nazis?  I don't know how the can opener works. 
Mickey starts pounding the door again as the movie cuts to: 
A beautiful snow-covered church downtown, complete with courtyard and wrought-iron fence.  A pedestrian walks by with an umbrella.  A church choir sings a soaring hymn over the scene. 
The music continues as the film moves inside, where the choir is seen singing behind an altar glowing warm gold.  A fairly large congregation sits in darkened pews as the film cuts to the back, where Mickey, his arms crossed, stands underneath some stained-glass windows, watching and listening to the inspiring music. 
The choir continues to sing as the movie cuts to Father Flynn in his office. 
He picks up some large, heavy books from a shelf near his window and he walks over to Mickey, who's standing near his desk, already holding several tomes.  Father Flynn puts the books on top of Mickey's pile; Mickey, flipping through the top one, awkwardly carries his bundle to the door. 
Next is seen a close-up of a painting of Jesus Christ on the cross, complete with crown of thorns and holy expression. His eyes, especially designed to blink as the lights hit them, open and close repeatedly.  The hymn plays on, loudly, as the camera moves back, revealing Mickey, standing outside a barber shop window, looking at the Christ playing and shuffling from side to side to gets its eyes' 3-D effect. Smaller inspirational pictures border the bigger, blinking Christ.  A barber pole with moving stripes stands nearby; passing traffic is reflected in the window. 
Mickey turns from the window, shrugging, and starts to walk down the street, past a fruit and vegetable store with open- air-displayed flowers, past several briskly moving pedestrians. 
With the hymn still playing, the screen goes black briefly. Mickey opens the door, the light from a hallway illuminating him.  He's just entered his apartment.  He closes the door and walks through his dark foyer; he carries a brown bag. He switches on the light, and walking past his spiral staircase, past several framed pictures on the wall, he makes his way to his living room coffee table.  Mickey pulls a crucifix out of the bag; he looks at it, then puts it on the table near a pile of books and some objets d'art.  He then takes out a copy of the New Testament, putting it on top of the crucifix.  Then out comes a framed picture of a saint.  It too gets put on the growing pile.  But the bag is not yet empty.  Next comes a large loaf of Wonder Bread and a large jar of Hellman's mayonnaise.  Mickey sets them on top of the saint. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET - DAY 
Lee is walking down the street, looking around her.  The sidewalk is fairly crowded with people; the sounds of traffic are heard.  She passes some office buildings, a store's large display window; she stops when she sees Hannah. Her sister is waiting outside the Art Deco façade of a restaurant; she's looking in the opposite direction.  Lee taps Hannah on the shoulder; Hannah, surprised, turns and gasps. 
LEE (overlapping Hannah's gasp) Hi. 
The sisters laugh and embrace each other. 
HANNAH Hi.  Where's Holly? 
LEE (overlapping) Hi.  She's auditioning for a television commercial.  She said she's gonna be a little late. 
HANNAH (sighing) Oh, yeah?  How's she doing? 
She turns and walks towards the restaurant entrance. 
LEE (following Hannah through the restaurant's doors) Oh, God, you know Holly.  When she's depressed, she's manic.  I think it was a good idea that we invited her to lunch. 
They disappear inside.  The camera follows them, cutting to the restaurant's interior at the same time the sisters walk in.  It's a chic, trendy place, with an Art Deco design and high ceilings.  A waiter in uniform stands near its glass and metal doors, holding a tray to his chest; a few people sit at the bar; a large plant in a vase sits in the foreground.  The sisters walk toward the coatcheck area, deep in conversation. 
HANNAH (pulling off her scarf, still on the subject of Holly) I hope you tell her it was your idea... 
LEE Why? 
HANNAH (overlapping) ...'cause every time I try to be helpful, you know, sh-she gets so defensive. 
LEE (unbuttoning her coat) Oh, Hannah, she's-she's just embarrassed in front of you, that's all. 
Hannah walks offscreen, farther into the coatcheck room. She talks offscreen as Lee alone is seen, reacting and speaking as well.  In the background, a waiter crosses over to the bar, then walks away. 
HANNAH (offscreen) So how are you? 
LEE Oh, me, I'm okay. 
HANNAH (offscreen) Do you miss Frederick? 
LEE No. 
HANNAH (offscreen) I can't believe Elliot and I can't think of someone nice for you to go out with, you know-- 
LEE (interrupting, her voice slightly higher-pitched as she takes off her coat) How are you? 
HANNAH (offscreen) I'm okay. 
LEE (overlapping) You know, how's everything?  You doing okay?  How's Frederick? (laughing) I mean, Elliot. 
HANNAH (offscreen, overlapping) Y-yeah. 
Hannah walks out of the coatcheck room without her coat; it's Lee's turn to disappear and check her things.  Now only Hannah can be seen onscreen as the sisters talk.  In the background, the waiter once again walks over to the bar. 
HANNAH (continuing) Oh, he's fine.  He's-he's, I guess he's fine.  I don't know. (shaking her head, her arms crossed) He's been kinda moody lately, the last few months. 
LEE (offscreen, overlapping) Really? 
HANNAH Yeah.  I-I don't know what's wrong with him.  He's just...kind of distant and difficult. 
LEE (offscreen) Oh... 
HANNAH (overlapping, gesturing) I've been trying to talk to him about it.  He says everything's fine, but I don't know. Automatically, you know, I leap to the worst conclusions. 
LEE (offscreen) Like what? 
As Hannah answers her sister, Holly can be seen entering the restaurant and walking over to the coatcheck area, an unlit cigarette in her mouth, her sunglasses still on her eyes. 
HANNAH (gesturing) I mean, I don't know, he's seeing someone else or something, but... 
LEE (walking back onscreen without her coat, reacting) Oh, no!  I mean, everyone thinks things like that. 
HANNAH (overlapping) I'm-I'm always happy to help you financially.  I think I've gone out of my way to-to introduce you to interesting single men.  There's nothing I would-- 
HOLLY (offscreen, interrupting) Uh, losers!  All losers! 
HANNAH You're too demanding. 
HOLLY (offscreen) You know, I could always tell what you thought of me by the type of men you fixed me up with! 
The camera, slowly circling the table, is back on Lee's face. While her sisters argue emotionally on her right and left, she is looking down, biting her lip.  She is outwardly still, but her face is registering her seething emotions. 
HANNAH (offscreen) You're crazy!  That's not true. 
HOLLY (offscreen) Hey, Hannah, I know I'm mediocre. 
LEE (interrupting angrily, looking as if she's about to cry) Oh, will you stop attacking Hannah?! 
HANNAH (offscreen, overlapping) Oh, now-- (stuttering) 
LEE (interrupting, shaking her head) She's going through a really rough time right now. 
HOLLY (offscreen) Why are you so upset? 
LEE (sobbing and gesturing) You know, you've been picking on her ever since she came in here. Now just leave her alone for a while!  I'm just suffocating. (sniffing back her tears) 
HOLLY (leaning over to Lee, puzzled, reacting to her sister's tears) What's the matter with you, Lee? Why are you so sensitive all of a sudden? 
HANNAH (offscreen) Look. (onscreen, as the camera circles around the table) Listen.  Listen. (tapping Holly on her shoulder and gesturing) You want to write?  Write. 
HOLLY (offscreen, overlapping to Lee) What's the matter? 
HANNAH (flinging her hands) Write!  Let's just not talk about it anymore. 
HOLLY (offscreen) Good. 
HANNAH (shaking her head) Take...take a year.  Take six months.  Whatever you want.  Who knows?  Maybe you'll, maybe you'll be sitting with a good play. 
She opens her menu, then turns to Lee, reacting suddenly to her sister, who is rubbing her forehead, looking terribly upset. 
HANNAH (to Lee) What's the matter?  What's the matter with you? (offscreen again as the camera circles back to Lee) You look pale.  You okay? 
LEE (overlapping, nodding and stuttering) I'm-I'm okay.  Yeah, I-I-I, you know, I...I'm just, um, I got dizzy all of a sudden.  I'm-I'm...I have a headache. 
HANNAH (offscreen, overlapping) Yeah? 
LEE (still rubbing her forehead, looking down at the menu) I think we need to eat. 
CUT TO: 
Summer in New York. 
A piano plays "Bewitched" in the background as the film cuts to a large tree, covered with bright white blossoms.  The camera moves down the tree to reveal a well-kept, red-brick brownstone on a pleasant, sunny New York City street.  A man wearing a summer suit walks by as the film moves inside the building, to Elliot's analyst's office.  The psychotherapist sits in a comfortable armchair next to a curtained window. In front of the window sits a table covered with artifacts and a large lamp.  The analyst's fingers are touching, his arms resting on the chair, as he listens to the offscreen Elliot. 
ELLIOT (offscreen) I-I can't seem to take action. I'm-I'm like, uh, Hamlet unable to kill his uncle. 
The music stops as the camera moves across the room to reveal Elliot, sitting in a wooden chair.  He holds a long, thin cigarette; he wears a gold Rolex watch.  He face is not yet seen. 
ELLIOT (face offscreen) I want Lee, but I can't harm Hannah. And in no other area am I a procrastinator. 
Elliot raises his cigarette to take a drag.  The camera follows the cigarette up to his face.  Elliot looks thoughtful as the movie cuts to: 
EXT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY CAMPUS - DAY 
Lee, wearing jeans and carrying an armful of books, is running up a broad set of steps in the sunlight, greeting other students as she passes.  Elliot continues to talk over the scene... 
ELLIOT (V.O.) Meanwhile...Lee has no direction. She's taking courses at Columbia...but just randomly. 
...as Lee stops on a portico and turns to greet Doug, a professor, who is running over to her, calling her name. They mouth hello, smiling, and begin to walk off together. 
ELLIOT (V.O.) I try not to call her, but then she calls me and then...I call and...we try to resist meeting, but...once in a while we meet.  Sometimes we argue because I can't break up my marriage.  Sometimes we wind up making love and...we both feel terrible. 
The film cuts back to Elliot in his analyst's office. 
ELLIOT But it's my fault. 
Elliot takes a last drag on his cigarette.  The camera follows his hand as he crushes it out in a nearby ashtray. 
ELLIOT (face offscreen) For all my education, accomplishments, and so-called wisdom...I can't fathom my own heart. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY 
Hare Krishna music is heard over a sunlit view of the Manhattan skyline and the green trees of Central Park.  The camera moves down to reveal a large group of Hare Krishnas dancing on the broad green lawn among other New Yorkers enjoying the day.  The leader, holding some pamphlets, stands by a chain-link fence, a few feet away from his group, talking to someone on the other side.  It's Mickey, as the camera soon shows, wearing a short-sleeved shirt, a paper tucked under his arm. 
KRISHNA LEADER What makes you interested in becoming a Hare Krishna? 
MICKEY (gesturing, walking onscreen) Well, I'm not saying that I want to join or anything, but...but I know you guys believe in reincarnation, you know, so it interests me. 
KRISHNA LEADER Yeah, well, what's your religion? 
MICKEY (gesturing) Well, I was born Jewish, you know, but, uh, but last winter I tried to become a Catholic and...it didn't work for me.  I-I studied and I tried and I gave it everything, but, you know, Catholicism for me was die now, pay later, you know. And I just couldn't get with it. And I, and I wanted to, you know. I-- 
KRISHNA LEADER (interrupting) You're afraid of dying? MICKEY (gesturing) Well...yeah, naturally.  Aren't you? I-- L-let me ask you, reincarnation, does that mean my soul would pass to another human being, or would I come back as a moose or an aardvark or something? 
KRISHNA LEADER (handing some Krishna literature over the fence to Mickey) Take our literature... 
MICKEY (nodding, taking the material) Uh-huh. 
KRISHNA LEADER ...read it over, and think about it. 
MICKEY (looking down at the material he's just received) Well, okay.  Thank you very much. 
KRISHNA LEADER You're welcome.  Hare Krishna. 
Mickey walks off, the Hare Krishnas still dancing and singing on the other side of the fence.  He flips through the literature as he walks, then looks straight ahead, pondering.  His voice is heard over the screen. 
MICKEY (V.O.) Who are you kidding?  You're gonna be a Krishna?  You're gonna shave your head and put on robes and dance around at airports?  You'll look like Jerry Lewis.  Oh, God, I'm so depressed. 
HOLLY (offscreen) Oh, wow!  I don't want to have this conversation.  I didn't do anything wrong. 
Hannah angrily gathers up some spices from the table; Holly walks back onscreen holding a silver ice bucket.  She stops at the corner of the table and faces Hannah. 
HOLLY (onscreen) Y-you mentioned to me yourself that you and Elliot were having some problems. 
HANNAH (gesturing) Yeah, we're having some problems, but problems that are my business...which I don't see how you could know about in such detail. How does Lee know about these things?  How?  They're private! 
Hannah picks up a large bowl and carries it, as well as her armload of spices, into the pantry area. 
HOLLY (turning to look at her sister as she walks past) Well, why don't you share them with us? 
HANNAH (with her back to the camera) I don't...I don't want to bother everyone. 
HOLLY (facing her sister's back) That's the point.  I'd like to be bothered. 
HANNAH (turning to look at Holly) I don't see how you could know about these things unless Elliot's been talking to you. 
HOLLY (shaking her head) No, he hasn't.  If I offended you, I'm sorry. 
Hannah, reacting, puts the spices down on the pantry counter. Holly turns away. 
The film cuts to the dining room doorway.  Guests can be seen mingling and talking and helping themselves at a buffet table in the living room.  Lee and Elliot can be heard offscreen as the camera slowly moves from the doorway across the empty dining room to reveal them in the midst of an intense conversation.  The piano, as well as soft chatter, is heard in the background. 
LEE (offscreen) It's over, Elliot.  I don't know how to make it any clearer.  It's over.  I can't see you anymore. 
ELLIOT (offscreen, overlapping) Uh... (onscreen, gesturing) I-I-I know.  I deserve this. 
LEE (touching her chest) Look, I'm just as much at fault. 
ELLIOT (overlapping, gesturing) If-if-if you can believe I have such feelings for you! 
LEE I've got to be honest with you.  I met someone else.  I've met someone else. (turning and walking away from Elliot) I...I told you I wasn't going to wait forever. 
Lee goes over to an open door and closes it quickly. 
ELLIOT (offscreen) But it hasn't been forever. (walking over to Lee at the just-closed door) 
LEE (gesturing) It's been nearly a year since our first time and you're still married to my sister, which...I now realize is fine because you're probably much more in love with her than you know. 
ELLIOT (shaking his head) Yeah, but we-we made so many plans. 
LEE (overlapping, gesturing) Yeah.  Uh, well, sure we did.  An- an-and in a way you led me on, because I truly believed you were unhappy with Hannah.  Otherwise, I would never have let myself be drawn in.  I was very weak.  So were you.  Now I've met someone else. 
The door opens and Mavis appears, holding a set of candlesticks.  She walks over to the dining room table, which is already decked out with a floral centerpiece, glassware, and china.  She puts them down as Lee and Elliot stand awkwardly near the door, waiting for her to leave. 
LEE (to Mavis) Dinner soon? 
MAVIS About fifteen minutes. 
LEE (nodding) Uh-huh.  Good. 
Mavis leaves.  Both Lee and Elliot quickly close the door behind her and immediately pick up where they'd left off. 
ELLIOT And you're in love overnight? 
LEE I care a great deal about him, yes. 
ELLIOT (trying to put his arm around Lee) Lee... 
LEE (pulling back, flinging her hands) Ah, it's over!  Elliot, I mean it. It's over! 
They look at each other, reacting, as the film cuts back to Hannah's kitchen.  Norma's face can be seen in the porthole window on the other side of the pantry's swinging door.  She looks around the kitchen, then opens the door and steps inside.  Holly stands nearby, working in the pantry area. 
NORMA (holding the door, half in and half out of the kitchen) Sweetheart, I loved your script.  I thought it was so clever. 
HOLLY (turning to Norma, smiling, and holding a glass of wine) Well, you're my mother.  Not everybody's gonna be such a sucker. 
NORMA (gesturing) I particularly liked the character of the mother.  Just a boozy old flirt with a filthy mouth. 
Holly chuckles. 
NORMA I'm so proud! 
HOLLY Oh, Mom, thanks. 
Norma steps back out of the kitchen, the door swinging shut behind her.  Holly looks at the door, sipping her wine, as the movie cuts back to Hannah's living room.  A chubby, friendly uncle sits on a sofa, one child on his lap and several others gathered cross-legged around him on the floor. 
They lean on the coffee table, which is covered with glasses and a bowl of chips.  Other guests mingle in the background; one couple enters the living room, smiling at the scene on the sofa.  Mavis crosses the well-lit foyer in the background and opens the door to more guests.  The piano plays on. 
UNCLE (raising his bottle of beer to the children) Now here's a toast to Thanksgiving, all right? 
The children mutter their enthusiastic agreement, picking up their "illicit" glasses of beer. 
UNCLE Are we supposed to have beer? Yeeeah! 
The uncle pours more beer from his bottle into the kids' outstretched glasses.  They cry indistinctly with excitement. 
UNCLE (overlapping the children's squeals of delight) Let me at it! (to one of the little boys) How's that, Fletcher? 
Laughing, he turns to the little girl sitting on his lap; he clinks his bottle against the bottle she is holding, which is almost as big as she is. 
UNCLE (to the little girl) Doll?  To Thanksgiving.  Here's a little toast, doll. (clinking glasses) Come on.  Bottoms up. 
The uncle and the children happily drink their beer as the movie cuts to a wall with subtly patterned wallpaper in Hannah's bedroom.  Her face moves on to the screen. 
HANNAH (to the offscreen Elliot) Have you been talking to Holly or Lee about us?  About our-our personal life? 
ELLIOT (offscreen) Me?  Of course not. HANNAH There's things Holly wrote about in her script about us that are so...personal they could only have come from you. 
ELLIOT (offscreen) Look, I've got a splitting headache and I don't like being accused. 
Hannah walks towards Elliot; he's in the bathroom standing over the sink. 
HANNAH (gesturing) I'm not accusing.  I'm asking.  Do you...do you find me too...too giving? (closing the door of the bathroom slightly so only she is seen on the screen) Too-too-too competent?  Too-too, I don't know, disgustingly perfect or something? 
ELLIOT No. 
MICKEY (continuing) ...in a really horrible way. 
HOLLY (smiling, glancing away for a moment) Oh, well, that was a long time ago. 
MICKEY (overlapping) You look wonderful.  You do.  What happened to you? 
HOLLY (shrugging) People change...you know. 
MICKEY (touching Holly's shoulder) Well, I hope you've changed. 
HOLLY Yeah, I hope you have, too. MICKEY (overlapping) I hope so for your sake, because, uh, your personality left something to be desired... 
HOLLY (overlapping, shaking her head) Yeah, and for yours.  I'm sure you've changed. 
MICKEY (continuing) ...namely a personality. 
Holly chuckles and turns to look at more records.  She walks down the aisle, occasionally glancing at the bins of records. Mickey walks beside her. 
MICKEY So how are you? 
HOLLY (smiling) I'm okay. 
MICKEY You didn't answer my question. What are you doing? 
HOLLY Oh, nothing much.  You know... 
MICKEY (interrupting) Well... 
HOLLY (overlapping) ...just some stuff.  A little of this, a little of that, that's all. 
MICKEY (overlapping) Yeah?  Is that an embarrassing question?  Should I have not asked it? 
HOLLY (laughing) Probably not. 
MICKEY Are you, are you out of work or something? 
HOLLY No, well...I've been trying to write. 
MICKEY Have you? 
HOLLY (picking up a record and looking at it) Yeah. 
MICKEY Well, that's interesting.  Wh-what kind of stuff? 
HOLLY (touching her chin for a moment) Oh...well, you-you're not interested in this. 
MICKEY (overlapping) No, you can tell me. 
HOLLY Come on. 
MICKEY No, I am.  I am. 
HOLLY (overlapping) Oh, no, millions of people come up to you and say, "Hey, I have something I just wrote," right? 
MICKEY Nobody ever said it. 
HOLLY Really? 
MICKEY (overlapping) This is it.  Yeah.  This is really-- HOLLY (interrupting, turning from the record bins to look at Mickey) Well, wo-would you be willing to-to read it?  Something...that I wrote? 
MICKEY (nodding his head) Well, yes, I would if, uh, if it would mean anything to you.  I don't know why it would. 
HOLLY (laughing, touching her face) No, the reason I ask is-- 
MICKEY (overlapping) You've always hated my taste in the past. 
HOLLY (pulling her jacket off her shoulders) No, I haven't. 
MICKEY You have. 
HOLLY (gesturing, looking at Mickey) I haven't.  No, the reason why I ask is I think it might make a great, uh, television script, and, you know, you're so active in television, so-- 
MICKEY (chuckling, gesturing) I'm not anymore.  I haven't, I haven't been in television for a year. 
HOLLY You're kidding me. 
MICKEY (overlapping) I've done no television whatsoever. No. 
As Mickey continues to speak, Holly walks to another bin of records, reacting to his words.  She looks offscreen at him, then down at some records.  The camera follows her. 
MICKEY (offscreen, continuing) I may, I may have to get back into it, 'cause my accountant says that I'm running out of dollars. But...but, um, no, I haven't, I just sort of dropped out for a year... 
HOLLY (overlapping, nodding) Oh.  Oh. 
MICKEY (offscreen, overlapping) ...which is a long, dull story and I won't get into it.  But-- 
Mickey walks back onscreen to Holly.  The two of them are partially obscured by a large white Jazz sign imprinted with a large red circle as they continue their conversation. 
HOLLY (interrupting) You're okay, though, huh? 
MICKEY I'm-- Yes.  Yes, I'm fine.  I'm fine.  How are you? 
HOLLY (face offscreen, obscured by the sign) Oh, I'm fine. 
MICKEY What...what about your script? (face offscreen obscured by the sign) So what's it about? 
HOLLY (face offscreen) Well, I'd love it if you'd read it, actually, 'cause I really would value your opinion. 
MICKEY (face offscreen) You have to remember, we-we-we didn't agree on one thing. 
They emerge from behind the Jazz sign, still walking, still talking. 
HOLLY (smiling, gesturing) But you have to remember while you're reading and you're cursing my name, you know, that this is my first script.  Well, it's not my first script. 
MICKEY Hmm. 
HOLLY (touching her face) Actually, my first script was about Hannah and her husband, but, uh... 
