"The Haunting", production draft, revised by Michael Tolkin 
THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE 
By David Self 
Revisions by Michael Tolkin 
Based on the Novel by Shirley Jackson 
Initial Shooting Script 
NOTE: THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS. THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FOR THIS SOFT COPY. 
BEGIN MAIN TITLE SEQUENCE. 
At the very edge of hearing, the tone of human VOICES. Unintelligible, babbling, eerie.  Then a loud FLAPPING SOUND.  It shifts from one side of the theater to the other, like something moving among the wall hangings. 
As the TITLE appears, the noise mounts, drowning out the VOICES, agitated, becoming violent, banging... inhuman. 
FADE IN: 
EXT. HOUSING PROJECT, CHARLESTOWN, MASSACHUSETTS - DAY 
ON a housing project in the industrial outskirts of Boston.  The BANGING seems to flutter away, leading us along, searching... to a tiny balcony, one of dozens, ten stories up.  And there, the source of the sound -- 
-- A SHEET, snapping in the wind.  The umbrella-like clothes line on which it hangs bangs against a dirty glass door as if trying to get in. 
THROUGH THE GLASS DOOR a woman paces inside, agitated.  The VOICES rise over the banging, becoming intelligible -- 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NELL'S APARTMENT - DAY 
-- becoming a fight.  JANE, 30s, dark-haired, furious, wheels across a diminutive, neat, but poor living room. 
JANE It'll take a month to probate the will, Nell!  A month!  Even if Mother left you something, you won't get it in time to pay the rent.  So instead of complaining, you should be thanking Lou for getting you these two weeks to get Mother's things packed. 
At first we can't even see who she's yelling at.  At first we don't even notice her.  Then we do... 
Holding herself, in a dim corner away from the light, small, plain, like a part of the faded room is ELEANOR VANCE, 20's -- Nell. She stares at the door.  The clothes line raps at the begrimed glass. 
JANE (cont'd) Nell? 
The wind dies, the banging stops.  Nell seems to hear Jane and peers over at her, then across the room to Jane's bored husband, LOU.  He's turning a Franklin Mint commemorative coin set in his hands, studying it. 
LOU You're still going to have to settle with your mother's landlord on the back rent. 
Nell watches Jane's little boy, RICHIE.  Unpacified by the cartoons on the TV, he plows a plastic tank across a shelf through neat rows of delicate PORCELAIN DOLLS. 
NELL I'm not going to stay.  I'll get a job.  I'll get my own apartment. 
Richie knocks a porcelain DOLL off, and it breaks all over the carpet.  His parents don't notice.  But Nell feels it in the soul. Richie stops.  A long beat.  He looks at her, insolent, then plows on with his tank. 
JANE Nell.  A job?  Two months and where is this job?  You have no degree, you've never worked -- 
Nell explodes in outraged fury, startling us. 
NELL -- I've never worked? -- 
JANE You have no experience in the world... the regular world.  What would you put on a resume? (beat, softening) Now we all appreciate what you did for Mother.  Isn't that right, Lou? 
LOU Eleven years.  Long time. 
JANE That's why we've been talking. With me getting more time in Accessories, and Lou at the shop all day, we need somebody to take care of Richie, do a little cleaning and cooking.  And in return you can have the extra room. 
She goes to Lou, puts a hand on his shoulder, proud of her generosity.  All Nell can do is stare. 
And then: KNOCK KNOCK.  Like a shot Nell is out of the chair and turning for a set of FRENCH DOORS across the room.  It's all reflex.  Nell catches herself. 
KNOCK KNOCK.  Richie, lying on the couch like he's sick, raps on the wall with a wooden CANE and squeals: 
RICHIE Eleanor, help me!  I've got to pee! 
Nell REACTS, but rather than being amused or annoyed, a wave of TRAUMA flickers over her face.  The reaction is so strong we instantly know something is very wrong. 
LOU Richie, knock it off before I beat the crap out of you! 
Nell turns away, sick, breathing hard. 
Jane picks up a JEWELRY BOX from a dresser. 
JANE You're sure this is all of Mother's jewelry?  The lawyer said to make sure we took it to him... (beat) He said there might be some antique pieces.  Have you seen anything?  Some of it might be valuable. 
Nell knows what is going to happen to that jewelry.  Jane no longer can bear the weight of Nell's stare, checks her watch.  She nods at Lou.  Lou rises, pocketing the coin set.  Richie follows him out. 
JANE (cont'd) Think about our offer, Nell.  You don't know how hard it is out there. 
INT. NELL'S KITCHEN - DAY 
Nell rams through the door into the small kitchen, spotless, empty. And then bursts into tears.  Shaking, she digs in her back pocket and pulls out a FINE FILIGREE NECKLACE.  Her mother's.  It's from an age gone by. 
MARROW No. 
MALCOLM I, I just can't... 
MARROW She needed a job, Malcolm.  And she's smart.  And she helps me. 
MALCOLM I have a bad feeling about what you're doing. 
MARROW This is the last chapter.  Please, please give me clearance.  It's for science. 
Marrow waits. 
MALCOLM I'm gonna hate myself for this. 
But he nods.  Permission granted. 
MARROW Thank you. 
INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE LAB - DAY 
They open the door.  They walk out.  Mary is there.  She closes her eyes, and does a gypsy voice. 
MARY I see a hostile man... he's (she describes him).  The hostile man does not believe in Madame Velka. 
This relieves the pressure.  Malcolm is not listening anymore and storms off. 
MARY You know what he's really upset about? 
MARROW What? 
MARY You're going to publish, he's going to perish... And why did you hire me for this? 
Marrow has a sly smile.  They go into his office through another door in the lab. 
INT. MARROW'S OFFICE - DAY 
Long, narrow, badly lit, it's filled with filing cabinets, stacks of unread textbooks still in publisher's plastic, a desk with computer.  As soon as they enter, Mary looks at the phone. 
MARY It's for you. 
And then the phone rings.  He doesn't pick it right up, he lets it ring. 
MARROW You hear the vibrations in the wire.  There's a magnetic pulse in the wires, you feel it.  I could test it. 
MARY Test it. 
The phone still rings.  Marrow answers. 
MARROW Yes, this is Doctor Marrow. 
MARY How'd I know it was for you? 
MARROW (quickly) Because it's my phone. (back to the phone) Yes... Mrs. Dudley, just leave the boxes inside, thank you.  See you soon.  Thank you. 
He hangs up. 
Marrow is trying to read the first file as he goes to his desk. Mary shows him a huge CORKBOARD covered with photos, articles, and various items. 
MARY Here's how they're organized. Groups of five, very different personalities: scored all over the Kiersey Temperament Sorter just like you asked for.  And they all score high on the insomnia charts. 
MARROW Good. 
A PHOTO OF NELL falls on the floor.  Marrow scoops it up.  He holds the photo of Nell up to Mary, and look at the written notes and studies the graphs that go with it. 
MARROW (cont'd) This is correct? 
MARY Her mother died two months ago. She says she really wants to do this.  I didn't know if it'd be taking advantage... 
Marrow considers the lonely image for a long moment and then looks at the graph of her test scores. 
MARROW (meaning the graph, not the face) What a beautiful profile.  How do you feel about her?  What does your intuition say? 
Mary balks at his teasing. 
MARY I put my favorites on the top. 
Marrow continues to study the files. 
MARROW (OC) Okay... this one's good... Extrovert Feeler... Okay... This one I like, too... 
We don't pay as much attention now to the cork board as to other images on the wall.  We find clinical-looking shots from Stanley Milgram's experiments: subjects appearing to scream in response to electrical shock. 
Rows of weeping prisoners in the Stanford prison experiment. 
Photos of victims crushed under the stands of a soccer stadium, the aftermath of a riot.  A picture of the Fuhrer before his mesmerized masses.  Mary opens a large envelope.  She takes out a photograph that we can't see. 
MARY What's this? (has to get his attention) What's this... this picture? 
MARROW That?  That's Hill House. 
INT. NELL'S CAR - DAY 
Nell looks out at the forest, feels a chill.  The road is more like a tunnel through the forest than a road. 
EXT. HILLS - DAY 
Nell's car speeds through the trees, climbing the hills, higher and higher into the awesome solitude. 
INT. NELL'S CAR - DAY 
Nell takes a final switchback, and something off to the right catches her eye, then is gone in the trees.  She watches again for it.  There.  A glimpse of a gray stone property wall set back twenty yards from the road. 
There it is again.  Moss-greened, twenty feet high, a wicked array of iron spikes and glass mortared atop it. 
And then out of the tangled forest in front of her looms a pair of immense stone pillars.  Between them, a steel GATE as high as the wall, chained and padlocked. 
EXT. HILL HOUSE GATE - DAY 
The gate stands immense.  Silent.  Forbidding.  Beyond them a gravel drive curves away through the trees.  Nell kills her car, gets out, instructions in hand.  No one in sight.  A long beat. She reaches in and blows the HORN. 
The HORN shatters the air, rackets off the trees beyond the gate, echoing.  Silence. 
Nell blows the HORN a sustained staccato in annoyance.  The echo replies in a terrible, deafening battering of sound.  Nell covers her ears.  Silence once again. 
In a fit of agitation she goes to the padlock and rattles it.  It's locked good.  She turns -- 
-- and there is a man right behind her.  It is MR. DUDLEY, his hair tied back like an ex-hippie.  He stands between Nell and her open car door, weed spear in hand.  He smiles at her -- rough, dirty, massive. 
MR. DUDLEY What do you want? 
NELL Oh!  You scared me. 
MR. DUDLEY Me?  No.  What are you doing here? 
NELL Are you Mister Dudley, the caretaker? 
MR. DUDLEY Yeah, I'm Mister Dudley, the caretaker.  What are you doing here? 
NELL I'm with Dr. Marrow's group.  I'm supposed to check in with Mrs. Dudley up at the house.  Is she here? 
She hands him the directions.  He glances at them.  She uses the distraction to get into her car. 
MR. DUDLEY Maybe she is... 
INT. NELL'S CAR - DAY 
Nell looks at the gate, some part of her aware it's a point of no- return.  Mr. Dudley eases over to her window.  Mr. Dudley gives her one last look and goes to the gate.  He produces a keyring and undoes the padlock. 
NELL Why do you need a chain like that? 
MR. DUDLEY That's a good question.  What is it about fences?  Sometimes a locked chain makes people on both sides of the fence just a little more comfortable.  Why would that be? 
He unwinds the enormous chain, heavy turn after heavy turn.  The gates swing in, revealing HILL HOUSE. 
NELL Is there something about the house? 
MR. DUDLEY Mrs. Dudley'll be waiting for you. 
Grinning, Dudley steps aside and Nell rolls through.  And at that he just grins wider.  Nell pulls away.  Disturbed, she watches him in the rearview mirror.  She turns and in front of her sprawls Hill House.  At center, the features of the oldest part of the House dwarf all others: towering, eye-like windows and the jaws of a Grand Entry with carved ebony doors. 
EXT. HILL HOUSE DRIVEWAY - DAY 
The car rumbles up the drive toward the carport. 
INT. NELL'S CAR - DAY 
Nell stops the car in front of the entrance, right inside the carport.  In the silence all we can hear is her breathing. 
EXT. HILL HOUSE - DAY 
Her car sits in front of the house, tiny, alone.  Its brake lights go off. 
The finger-like pillars of the car port seem like a hand pinning the car in place under the House's gaze. 
Nell gets out of the car. 
Nell stares, daunted... yet there is something about the House.  A romance in its lilac heavy Gothic decay.  Nell feels it, is drawn to it. 
EXT. GRAND ENTRY - DAY 
Nell, suitcase in hand, climbs the steps to the front doors.  On closer inspection, the snaking shapes of the carved doors depict a Garden of Eden.  At center on the knocker, a tarnished silver Adam takes the forbidden fruit from his counterpart Eve. 
Nell lifts Adam and knocks heavily.  There is no answer.  Nell looks around for some sign of life. 
Off to one side is a LADDER and PAINT CANS.  Somebody must've been touching up the window trim. 
When she looks back the door is AJAR a fraction of an inch. 
NELL Hello?  Hello?  Mrs. Dudley?  Mrs. Dudley, are you here?  Anybody? 
INT. MEZZANINE - DUSK 
As they come out of Crain's study Theo stops at the top of the stairs, Nell behind her. 
THEO Jeez. 
NELL I know. 
They stare out at Hugh Crain, the cracking and shadowing of the swirls of oil that compose his face.  The figure is daunting, but dead.  Just a painting.  Four different hallways lead into the mezzanine, all dark and endless in the stray light. 
NELL (cont'd) Maybe we should wait for them here. 
Theo walks out, swings around. 
THEO Which one?  Pick any. 
Nell looks from one to another.  She doesn't want to.  But she forces a smile and points to one on the left.  They both disappear into the dark gothic hallway. 
INT. SMALL PARLOR (CONFUSING ROOMS) - DUSK 
Theo breezes into a small parlor with heavy green velvet curtains, panelled walls, rich settees.  Other doors lead off the room.  Nell follows. 
THEO This is a serious question, but do you think the Dudleys ever make love in this room?  They're alone in the house, no one watching.  No one... no one watching.  You can do what you want. 
Theo goes running for another door and is out. 
Nell, realizing she's being left behind, springs after her into another mysterious hallway -- 
INT. STATUARY HALL - DUSK (CONTINUOUS) 
-- into a wide hall lined with niches and classical statuary.  Theo strides down it pointing left and right, bending over, straddling the pieces, provocative: 
THEO Here.  Here.  Here. (under a leering gargoyle) Oh yes!  Oh yes oh YES!  Here! 
Nell laughs -- appalled and loving every minute of it. 
THEO (cont'd) Can't you just see it? 
NELL Theo! 
INT. HALL OF MIRRORS - DUSK (CONTINUOUS) 
Through a narrow passageway, and large double doors they suddenly stand at the threshold of a fantastic ballroom lined with mirrors and chandeliers.  Rows of mirror-coated octagonal pillars, rise to a vaulted, mirrored ceiling far above.  With the door opening, there's a CLICK, and a mechanism of some sort is activated.  The FLOOR begins to MOVE like a slow turntable. 
Theo comes right up, looks over Nell's shoulder.  Nell steps out. 
She traipses out across the room, her million reflections waltzing with her into infinity.  Theo dances after her.  They dance, not quite together.  Nell stops and pronounces: 
NELL I love this house.  I really love this house. 
THEO (gently, recognizes that Nell is different) You're okay. 
Nell blushes... and they burst out laughing.  They take off running, their reflections with them, stampeding for an archway on the far side of the room and out -- 
INT. 1ST FLOOR HALLS (VARIOUS) - DUSK (CONTINUOUS) 
-- into yet another hallway.  They race down the hall, turn into another hall, then another, all dimly lit by the very last rays of day, all furnished in the House's dark, impossibly complicated, impossibly ornate fashion.  As they go, the mood is growing darker, the women unaware that they are getting lost. 
THEO (having fun) Rats!  We're rats in a maze! That's what this experiment is going to be! 
They open a door to -- 
INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE LOCKED ROOM - DUSK (CONTINUOUS) 
They stand at the end of a long hallway to one of the House's forgotten outlying wings.  It is dark.  Too dark.  Nell and Theo regard the darkness. 
At the far end of the hall stand a pair of MAHOGANY DOORS, closed, almost black, oily-looking.  Surrounding them, an enormously complex geometrical frieze. 
The doors themselves are plain.  In their simplicity there is something about them enormously disturbing.  It is as if the doors are looking back at them, Nell goes cold.  Theo holds herself. 
NELL We should go back. 
Theo nods.  They turn around, Theo opening what she thinks was the door they came through. 
INT. NARROW STAIRCASE - DUSK 
They hurry down a narrow staircase, Theo first, Nell right behind. 
NELL Theo, I'm scared -- 
They fly down a set of steps, Theo flings open a final door -- and SCREAMS! 
INT. GRAND ENTRY - NIGHT 
The Grand Entry, where they bump into LUKE SANDERSON, 20's, charming and cynical. 
LUKE Hi, Luke Sanderson, bad sleeper, I'm your basic tosser-turner, and you are... 
NELL Uh... Nell Vance... 
LUKE He's trying to protect the experiment.  Personally, I don't think he's got a large enough sample for valid results, but as long as the money's good, and the food is good, I'm in. 
He heads off.  Theo turns to find Nell staring at the animal heads on the stairs.  Theo touches her.  She starts. 
THEO Nell, it was an accident. 
INT. MARROW'S BEDROOM (PART OF CONFUSING ROOMS) - NIGHT 
Marrow, sitting at a desk, speaks into a digital voice recorder. His voice is cold, analytical. 
MARROW Icebreaker exercise conducted over dinner.  Observed initial bonding among subjects and experimenter. After dinner first bland history of House relayed.  Nell appears most susceptible to suggestive history.  Luke, who tested at the bottom of the Levy-Mogel Confidence Reliability Scale was given the second part of the story.  We should see some results tomorrow.  Accident with harp, while unfortunate... complements the experimental fiction. 
He turns off the machine, and then he says, ruefully: 
MARROW (cont'd) Publish or perish. 
He turns off the light.  The shadows in the room are too much for him. He turns the light on, and then pulls the blanket over his head. 
INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Nell finishes putting things away in drawers.  Theo watches, leaning in the doorway.  Nell looks around at the room: and this is her new family's new home.  Theo smiles sweetly at her, comes over.  An awkward moment, as the seriousness drains away. 
THEO Ever try putting your hair up in a French twist? 
Theo reaches for Nell's hair.  Nell pulls away.  Theo pauses.  Nell realizes she shouldn't have pulled back. 
NELL Sorry.  I'm not used to being touched. 
She moves closer to let Theo examine her hair.  Theo takes Nell's hair, holds it up in a French twist. 
THEO You've been out of the world for a long time, haven't you? 
NELL Yes.  I've missed it. 
THEO No.  The world has missed you. 
Cautiously, Nell peers in a mirror at herself... and likes what she sees.  Theo lets Nell's hair drop.  Theo moves for the door. 
NELL Good night, Theo. 
THEO You, too.  Happy tossing and turning. 
INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT 
As Nell steps OUT OF FRAME and starts undressing, the CAMERA finds the carved mantle, the densely-packed scene of children at play, their faces frozen in dark wooden smiles, their eyes blind but staring OC where we sense Nell changing. 
Now in a long tee-shirt, Nell crawls up onto the high bed.  Its headboard is heavy, dark, engraved with fan-like shapes, maybe plants. 
She draws the covers about her and peers up at the ornate headboard. 
Something about it bothers Nell, but she can't put her finger on it. She twists over on her side and turns out the light on the nightstand. For a moment, all there is in the darkness is her breathing -- 
INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT 
-- then almost silence.  We pull back from the CHILDREN'S FACES on the doors of the Great Hall to reveal the vast room standing in darkness.  Covens of strange shapes consort in the shadows, things that in the day would be lamps, the stuff of life.  But now, at the very deepest limit of human hearing, it is as if SOMETHING EXHALES. 
INT. GRAND STAIRWAY - NIGHT 
It is black at the top of the stairs.  The carved animal heads on the balusters are all turned UP THE STAIRWAY, eyes starting in fear. Waiting for something to walk down out of that blackness. 
INT. HALL OUTSIDE LOCKED ROOM - NIGHT 
Eyes.  Eyes of all the mythological figures.  STARING down the long, black hallway.  Awaiting something.  Afraid. 
At the end of the hallway, where all eyes are staring, the double doors, the ones that scared Nell and Theo stand shut. 
That something gathering at the edge of our hearing RISES.  Rises as if the House itself is breathing. 
INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT 
BUMP.  The sound thuds the stillness of the House.  Bump.  Bump. Bump.  Deep, hollow, distant like a dream.  Nell sits up, still asleep, body moving by reflex. 
NELL Coming, Mother! 
WHUMP.  The noise jars her consciousness, lighting up her mind, VERY REAL.  Nell remembers where she is. 
Bump bang.  It's coming from somewhere far off in the House.  Nell listens in cold dread. 
THEO (OC) Nell! 
Nell spins to the bathroom door, goes through -- 
INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS) 
-- the unlit bathroom, slamming the door to her room behind her, across and out the other door -- 
INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS) 
-- into Theo's room.  THUMP BUMP BUMP.  Nell finds Theo right in front of her, hair wet, kneeling in the bed, clutching her covers to herself. 
VARIOUS SHOTS as the bumping seems to travel down the hallway.  A rushing sound with it.  They're the same sounds, from the scene before, but somehow have none of the impact, none of the presence as they did in Theo's bedroom. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Luke lets the door shut, turns off the faucet.  The sounds of the plumbing die away. 
LUKE Do you need me anymore?  Cause I'm going to bed.  They can stay up talking another 45 minutes if they want, but I gotta try to get some sleep. 
MARROW Go ahead. 
Luke leaves the kitchen.  Theo and Nell watch him go. 
THEO If this was some sort of joke, I'm going to kill him. 
NELL You know it wasn't a joke, Theo. 
Marrow watches the exchange closely. 
MARROW The cold sensation.  Who felt it first? 
NELL Theo I think.  You've asked us that three times, Doctor Marrow. What's going on? 
MARROW How do you feel about Luke's suggestion that it was just the old plumbing?  Water hammer, something like that? 
Theo and Nell look at each other in frustration.  But Theo tries to get her mind around the question. 
THEO I did just take a bath.  I don't know. 
INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT 
The room is a lot less frightening now, especially with the lights on.  Nell sits on Theo's bed.  Theo looks at the walls, silent, normal. 
THEO I did just take a bath. 
When Nell doesn't respond for a moment, Theo turns to her, sees her wrestling with herself. 
NELL Mother always banged on the wall when she needed me.  The night she died... I heard her, but I pretended I didn't.  I was just so sick of it all.  And then the banging stopped.  And in the morning... she was dead.  This is the first I've ever said this to anyone.  That was the job I had, Theo, it's the only job I've ever known, and I failed.  I'm actually a bad person, Theo.  The world doesn't need me. 
Theo shakes her head, brushes at her eyes.  The confession, on the top of the fright, has moved her deeply. 
THEO Oh, Nell.  Eleven years.  With all due respect to your mother who I'm sure was a saint, I'd have called Doctor Kevorkian, if not for her, for me. 
It's such a horrible thought it makes Nell smile, and they share a tearful laugh. 
INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT 
Nell stands in the door to her room. 
NELL Good night, Theo. 
Nell shuts the door.  Theo is about to close her door, but hesitates.  She puts on the light and goes to the tub.  She turns it on, waits.  Just the sound of the water.  And no bumping. 
INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Nell lies asleep under her sheet, the blankets off the end of the bed.  HOVERING OVER HER, on the headboard, the carved faces of children, peering DOWN. 
FLAP.  FLAP flap.  The fan-light at the top of the window right next to the bed is OPEN a crack.  The sheer curtains flap listlessly in a gentle breeze.  The flapping grows louder, and with a sudden gust the curtain BILLOWS OUT.  In its flowing form, we sense the SHAPE OF A GIRL'S FACE, fleeting, so insubstantial we know we just saw her, but maybe our eyes are playing tricks on us. 
The CURTAIN blows straight out, touching the bedposts at the foot of the bed, and there the wind catches the fabric hanging from them. The Wind seem to sneak under the bedcover and the shape follows... 
Nell sleeps, oblivious, the WIND filling the room, stirring the tinkling crystal beads on the candelabra.  The shape of the little girl's face now travels underneath the bedsheets toward the pillows, toward Nell. 
Nell turns, restless, the AIR catches the edge of the pillowcase, and travels towards Nell's face.  And for a split second there is a lifelike IMPRESSION OF A SMALL GIRL'S FACE.  Nell almost awakens. The crystal beads stir, and in their tinkling, in the sigh of wind, we hear: 
GIRL VOICE Find us, find us Eleanor. 
Nell's eyes open.  And like that, the pillowcase deflates, the air rushes up the curtain to the window, and is gone. 
Nell sits up, looks about her.  Everything seems normal.  Just her sheets, just the curtains, but on the headboard remain the carved faces.  Benevolent.  Nell settles back down on her pillow with a sense of peace. 
INT. DINING ROOM - DAY 
Morning sun filters in through heavy drapes, falling on Marrow at the dining table.  Nell squeezes behind him and the sideboard behind him to get at the coffee.  Nell wears MAKE UP, badly applied, and her HAIR IS UP in a French twist. 
NELL Sorry. 
MARROW For an American you do a good imitation of the British at their most apologetic. (Veddy British) Pardon me.  Excuse me, sorry, sorry... 
Nell smiles.  Theo walks in the door, sees Nell and Marrow, Nell squeezed in behind him. 
NELL Am I that bad? 
Theo is aware of Marrow's curiosity and fascination with Nell. There's a jealousy brewing. 
THEO Well this is a cozy breakfast. 
MARROW Good morning, Theo.  Luke. 
Luke comes in behind Theo, tired-looking also.  He goes to the sideboard, starts helping himself to breakfast. 
NELL Jim... 
Marrow sticks his head into the fireplace.  For a long moment, nothing happens. 
IN THE FIREPLACE: pitch darkness.  Marrow feels up the chimney. 
AND THEN SOMETHING SWINGS DOWN RIGHT IN FRONT OF HIS FACE!  Marrow doesn't flinch. 
He FLINGS back the screen, revealing the only things in the fireplace: two massive andirons, and the still-swinging FLUE.  It's cast-iron, forged in the shape of a LION'S HEAD. 
Luke throws back the other screen.  Theo comes over.  Nell follows. There's nothing else in the fireplace. 
Luke and Theo stare at Nell.  Marrow squats to study the hearth. The large iron ASH-DROP is coated in soot. 
Not a mark on it.  He opens it.  Inside, a glimpse of ASHES and CHARRED WOOD.  Marrow stands, looks at Nell. 
NELL (cont'd) Somebody was in here.  I saw him. 
Marrow looks at her, not sure what to believe.  Nell turns to Luke and Theo for help.  Not from that corner.  Then Nell remembers, reaches into her pocket and produces the KEYS.  She holds them up to Luke. 
NELL (cont'd) Are these yours?  I found them right over there. 
LUKE Who drives a Toyota? 
Theo shakes her head.  They aren't Marrow's.  Marrow takes the keys from Nell, turns them over. 
THEO Maybe they're Mary's. 
MARROW Mary came with me. 
NELL When I first got here I saw a gray car pull up.  I thought it was one of us. 
EXT. HILL HOUSE - DAY 
They stand on the front steps.  Nell's car is right there under the car port. 
NELL This is my car. 
Theo gestures to a sports car on the circular drive.  Two other cars are with it.  They walk out into the driveway. 
MARROW And those are Luke's and mine. 
LUKE There's a carriage house around back. 
EXT. CARRIAGE HOUSE - DAY 
Together they approach a stable/carriage house off to one side of the main House.  It looks old, unused.  They enter through a small door. 
INT. CARRIAGE HOUSE - DAY 
Light filters in through gaps in the wood.  Luke opens one of the main doors with a loud SQUEAK, the sun revealing a TARP-COVERED SHAPE, a carriage.  Unused in a hundred years.  A row of tarp- covered carriages fill the stalls into the distance. 
LUKE Well, this lot is full! 
THEO He must have left.  Didn't like the looks of the place or something. 
NELL How could he have left without his keys? 
THEO Two sets.  I don't know.  Maybe they're not even his. 
LUKE Then he's got to be in the house... 
As they leave, the CAMERA LINGERS on a covered shape in one of the stalls, SMALLER than the other carriages, it could be a car.  A broken wagon wheel leaning against it. 
INT. STATUARY HALL AND SHORT MONTAGE THROUGH HOUSE - DAY 
Marrow, Theo and Luke move down the hall, opening doors left and right as Nell stands at the center of it all. 
MARROW Watts! 
No answer.  The statuary peers down on Nell.  Dead faces on busts. Blind marble eyes. 
INT. VARIOUS ROOMS AND HALLS - DAY 
Luke calls out. 
LUKE Watts!  Oh Watts!  Here Wattsy... 
INT. VARIOUS ROOMS AND HALLS - DAY 
Marrow is looking for him, too. 
MARROW Watts!  Can you hear us? 
INT. VARIOUS ROOMS AND HALLS - DAY 
Nell and Theo, walking into rooms. 
THEO Watts? 
MARROW I don't know. 
NELL It doesn't matter.  Even if they're tormenting me, someone wants me.  What I do with this is up to me.  I can be a victim, or I can be a volunteer.  And I want to be the volunteer. 
Nell glances at him, and for that split second she is raw, passionate woman.  She walks away, the sway in her gait aching, powerful.  Marrow is surprised by what Nell just said and stares at her as she comes to the overgrown end.  Nell reaches out to the hanging vines, pulls them aside... 
...and A FACE stares out.  Gastly.  White.  Nell takes an involuntary step back, a little gasp. 
The face is marble.  Blind eyes stare from stained cheeks.  It is a STATUE OF CRAIN.  Marrow comes over. 
It's an enormous stone tableaux of Hugh surrounded by cherubim.  The plants have attacked it as if trying to wipe its funerary presence from the greenhouse. 
NELL (cont'd) Hugh Crain.  Can't seem to get away from him. 
She laughs a little at herself.  Marrow joins in.  He helps her pull the plants back to reveal more of it. 
She reaches out, touches the marble cheek.  Then daring, grins, and begins to hum her TUNE. 
Marrow steps back to watch her do a sensual slow-dance with Hugh Crain, pirouetting, her hips sliding past... hypnotizing Marrow. 
MARROW What is that tune? 
NELL I don't know.  A lullaby I guess. My mother used to hum it to me. And her mother before that, and so on. (to the statue) Hugh Crain, would you care to dance? 
She hums another two notes, and BANG!  The door behind her SLAMS OPEN in a gust of wind, jolting Nell.  She stops and stares. Outside the window, through the glass, she sees Mr. Dudley, staring at her, he's been watching her dance.  The spell is broken.  Nell, embarrassed, can't bear to look at him. 
A beat, and then Marrow goes over and shuts the door.  When he turns back -- 
-- Nell is just vanishing around the corner, her rapid footsteps echoing in the vaulted room. 
EXT. REAR LAWN - DAY 
Nell hurries away from the House, across the rear lawn, ashamed at herself as much as she is spooked. 
In the distance Mr. Dudley is walking toward the House with cans of paint cleaner an a ladder.  Nell stops, watching him.  He senses her, pauses, and smiles. 
Nell reacts.  Sees the ladder.  Then Mr. Dudley disappears into the House. 
Nell once again starts to hurry away, but looking back over her shoulder, almost impales herself on the rusted iron fence of -- 
EXT. FAMILY CEMETERY - DAY (CONTINUOUS) 
-- the tiny Crain family cemetery.  Nell catches herself.  A small swinging gate bars the way.  She hesitates. 
Nine moss-covered headstones show the wear of a long century.  Eight small headstones, one large one.  A half dozen unmarked stones in the grass: stillbirths. 
Nell is drawn into the graveyard.  The large stone is RENE CRAIN'S. The smaller ones are her children's. 
Nell's heart is breaking as she moves among them: the various names. One reads ADAM CRAIN APRIL 5th 1874 -- ... The rest of the date is covered by growth.  She clears it away.  April 6th, 1874. 
NELL Only two days. 
There is an EPITAPH, almost wiped out by lichens.  Nell kneels to read it. 
NELL (cont'd) The blest are the dead / Who see not the sight / Of their own desolation... 
Nell, disturbed but not knowing what to make of it, rises from the gravestone, turns to the next.  ELISA CRAIN AUGUST 21ST, 1878 -- She clears it away: August 21, 1878.  The blasphemous epitaph here: 
NELL (cont'd) A father's joy unjustly snatch'd by a jealous God... 
Nell is shaken, and dreading what she will find next, whirls to the one behind her: WENDY CRAIN JANUARY 1 , 1880 -- She clears it away -- January 1, 1880.  And its graven commandment, so familiar, so comforting, now rings with terrible, malevolent promise: 
NELL (cont'd) Suffer the little children unto me. 
There are three more grave stones, and after clearing away the brush, they too show that the babies died after a few hours, or a day.  There's the same symbol on the graves of the children, a cherub of death.  We've seen this image before.  Nell backs out of the cemetery, afraid. 
INT. MEZZANINE - DAY 
Nell hurries down the mezzanine to the doorway which leads to the Red Parlor. 
INT. RED PARLOR - DAY 
She stands there a beat staring in at the volumes upon volumes of books.  Nell is unsure of what she's looking for.  She looks at Crain's painting and recognizes the same Cherubs inside the ornate frame.  The background in the painting IS THE RED PARLOR.  Then recognizes in the painting an OPEN BOOKCASE BEHIND CRAIN. Intuitively, she turns toward the same bookcase across from her and is able to push it open.  Inside a small stairwell... 
INT. CRAIN'S SECRET STUDY - DAY 
Down the circular stairs Nell enters a very small dusty room. Velvet curtains drawn shut, only a sliver of sunlight showing through.  As her eyes adjust, she makes out the furnishings of a late-nineteenth century office, Crain's secret office. 
The bookcases filled with business ledgers.  The business ledgers are stamped with the cherub of death. 
At the end is an enormous desk.  Behind it a massive, carved chair covered with a sheet, only its lion-head arm rests protruding from underneath.  Nell realizes it's: 
NELL Crain's study. 
She moves for the desk.  An ENORMOUS MIRROR, its silver inner surface flaking with age, tarnished, reflects the room, the desk, and FOR A SPLIT SECOND, A SHADOW IN THE CHAIR.  Nell steps in front of it, blocking our view. 
And when she steps past, there is only the dim, flaking image of the chair, the natural shadow of the room. 
Nell goes around the desk, stands over it.  The chair sits silent behind her, shrouded. 
Theo finishes Nell's last little toe, and then with the brush out of paint, runs it gently up the inside of Nell's calf.  Nell sighs. 
Theo lowers her face near Nell's toes, licks her lips: soft, near, red.  She blows. 
Nell raises herself up, peers down at Theo.  Sees the want on her face.  A long beat. 
Nell breaks the gaze, looks away.  Theo reads Nell's look, and releases her foot.  She sits back in the chair.  For a moment Nell doesn't know what to do. 
NELL (cont'd) I better go to bed. 
THEO Are you sure? 
NELL I think so. 
THEO Okay. 
INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Nell closes the door and sits at the vanity brushing out her hair for bed.  Her motions are languid in the light of the single small lamp, off-balance with the wine. 
Her HAIR brushes out in long, even strokes.  The brush moves through it, lifting it and letting it fall. 
IN THE MIRROR the brush draws through Nell's hair, but as it does, the hair divides in its wake LIKE FINGERS RUNNING THROUGH it. 
Nell freezes.  She's not sure what she just saw.  She runs the brush through again, and again it is as if something pulls it back from her head. 
Again -- fast -- she runs the brush through her hair, and this time the hair SPINS UP IN A KNOT. 
Nell flinches, dropping the brush, knocking the shade of the lamp on the vanity a-wobbling. 
She's out of the chair in a flash, grabbing her own hair, staring at the space behind her.  Nothing there.  A beat. 
She steadies herself, feeling the alcohol.  Gets control. 
The Tiffany lamp rocks back and forth, crystal beads shimmering. The light plays across the fireplace and mantle on the wall.  And something there catches her eye. 
Nell feels her way across the room, not sure of what she's seeing. Over the sound of the wind outside, there's something at the very highest edge of hearing. 
She stops five feet from the mantle.  The swaying light catches the rich tones of wood.  Then darkens.  Illuminates it again.  Darkens. The carvings of the playing CHILDREN in the wood SEEM TO MOVE. 
Nell stares in drunken fascination.  And as the first fear begins to rise in her throat, the wind dies down and in its place there is the FAINTEST TRACE OF CHILDREN'S LAUGHTER.  Nell's reaction changes... to awe. 
Tentative, her hand goes out, shaking... and touches the mantle. 
It is hard and still.  No movement whatsoever.  Silence.  But the FACES engraved in the wood all seem to be peering up at her, hands outstretched for her, hopeful. 
EXT. HILL HOUSE GATES - NIGHT 
The enormous LOCKED gates are silhouetted against the moonlit sky. The chain is dangling in the wind. 
EXT. HILL HOUSE - NIGHT 
Hold on Nell's WINDOW, the light shining dim through the gauze curtain.  It goes out.  The window stares from an arrangement of other windows, stonework and doors... like an eye with a cataract in a face howling in horror. 
INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Nell, her breathing heavy, lies tangled in her heavy blankets, asleep, but restless.  Her feet hang off the end of the bed. 
In the b.g., the door to the bathroom is shut, barely visible in the faint light from the window.  HOLD on it. 
Silently, it begins to OPEN.  The gap WIDENS, yawning, pitch dark beyond.  A long beat.  And then a THUMP.  A SLIDING SOUND. Something drags itself across the floor. 
BUMP.  SLIDE.  Our line of sight is blocked by the bed.  But the sound is getting louder, coming closer. 
Bump.  Slide.  Nell grinds her teeth in her sleep, pulls the blankets about her tighter.  Bump.  The sound stops.  And her BREATH BEGINS TO FOG. 
Whatever has just come in the room is right there, hovering just OC. We can feel it. 
Without warning Nell BOLTS upright, GASPING into consciousness. REVEAL: nothing.  Just the dark room.  And the bathroom door OPEN. 
Nell stares at the-door, knows she shut it.  Now it's open.  She breaths fast, feeling the cold, knowing something's in here with her. 
She stops breathing, strains her ears.  Silence.  A long moment. Then she notices her feet, hanging out from under the covers. 
They are black.  Feel slick.  Nell turns on the light by her bed and looks down. 
HER FEET ARE COVERED IN GORE.  Where Theo had been painting.  Nell SCREAMS. 
INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT 
SCREAMING, Nell spins the tub faucets on full blast, sticks her feet into the spray. 
THEO (OC) Nell?  Nell! 
Weeping, Nell scrubs the gore off her feet -- red, black like old clotted blood. 
NELL Who is doing this to me? 
The door to Theo's bedroom is shut.  The handle rattles, urgent, but it won't open.  It's LOCKED. 
Theo is chilled by this answer which would only make sense to someone out of her mind. 
Nell looks up and sees the double staircase at the end of the greenhouse... the one where Crain's wife killed herself. 
And for a moment we see Crain's wife hanging there and then the image is gone... 
INT. DINING ROOM - DAY 
Lunch remains are on the table as Nell enters, test papers in hand. 
NELL Jim?  I'm done. 
But Marrow isn't there.  She's about to go back out to look for him, but sees something and stops. 
Forgotten by a reading chair to one side of the room.  Barely visible.  Marrow's BRIEFCASE.  Nell goes to the briefcase, knowing she shouldn't look, and unable to help herself.  Marrow's digital recorder glints out at her. 
Nell takes it out, and presses play.  She looks up at the door.  Any minute he could come back in here... and then Marrow's voice rings out. 
MARROW (V.O.) ...the hallway discussion about last night's fireplace incident concluded at three a.m.  Nell continues her alienation of the other subjects and the experimenter.  It remains unclear whether she truly believes she did not deface the painting. Interview with the subject in greenhouse yesterday to ascertain the extent of her self-delusion was inconclusive due to her efforts to sexualize encounter with experimenter. 
Marrow's voice continues on in his assessment, but Nell isn't hearing anything anymore. 
She dies inside.  Her world upside down.  She falls into a chair, and all we can hear of Marrow is the cold, analytical tone, his garbled jargon. 
MARROW (OC) One minute! 
It's Marrow, for real, about to enter.  Nell clicks off the recorder, drops it into the briefcase.  Marrow is startled, not expecting Nell to be sitting right next to his papers and briefcase. 
MARROW (cont'd) Nell. 
She can only stare at him, eyes dead.  Marrow looks from her to the briefcase and back. 
MARROW (cont'd) Were you looking for me? 
Nell can't answer.  Marrow comes over, unsettled. 
MARROW (cont'd) How are the tests going? 
Nell rises, staring, emotionless.  Betrayal just beginning to find a hold.  She hands him her papers.  Marrow looks at Nell, knows she's been in his briefcase.  He picks it up, and with a final, sorry glance, exits. 
INT. GROUND FLOOR HALLWAY - DAY 
Nell emerges from the study, stands there a beat, lost.  Then she turns, resolute, and starts moving.  Faster. 
INT. GREAT HALL - DAY 
Nell, blinded by tears, runs across the room toward the grand entry and the exit... and stops. 
DOWN THE CONNECTING HALL, out in the grand entry, at the front doors, are Mr. and Mrs. Dudley.  Leaving for the day.  They stop. Look at her. 
Nell, numb, gazes from the open door to Mrs. Dudley.  Mr. Dudley holds the door open as if in invitation.  Nell could walk out right now.  This is her chance.  But... 
Mrs. Dudley smiles a knowing smile.  An all too knowing smile.  And seeing Nell's decision, gently shuts the door.  The LOCK CLICKS. Final.  Fate-sealing. 
Nell turns back to the House, lost. 
INT. RED PARLOR - DAY 
Nell walks right up to the moveable bookcase and enters Crain's secret study. 
INT. CRAIN'S SECRET STUDY - DAY 
Nell sits in silence, trying to find a feeling, any feeling.  A long beat.  And without warning she leaps to her feet in SHOCKING rage. 
NELL How can he think I'm doing this! 
She has a floor lamp in her hands, and hurls it like a throwing hammer at the nearest shelves.  Vases, knickknacks and a LEATHER ALBUM crash to the floor. 
She stalks around the room, and then slows, staring at what she's done, the rage draining out of her.  But if she could do something like that... 
NELL (cont'd) No.  No, I couldn't do those things: I'm not making it up. 
She turns in place, desperate... and sees the old leather album precariously tilting on one of the sprung shelves.  It's open.  One of the leaves flips over on its own, gravity and the weight of its own pages TURNING IT. 
Nell approaches, stepping over broken ceramic.  SLIP.  Another page turns. 
Nell hovers over it, holding her breath so as not to make the book flip over and fall off the shelf in one instant. 
SLIP.  Another page turns.  The book is a PHOTO ALBUM of the late nineteenth century, bound with ribbons, the aged Daguerreotypes in pressed vellum frames. 
Nell peers closer.  It's open to a faded, gray image taken long before it became the convention to smile for a photograph: a woman, RENE CRAIN, sitting in a chair. 
And standing behind the chair, a fearsome presence in a black coat, his face hollow, malevolent.  HUGH CRAIN. 
Nell shivers, and SLIP, the page turns on its own. 
An image of Hugh and Rene, a look of deathly loss on their faces. The page flips. 
Crain hovers, dark, rage just under the surface, but on Rene's face is the faintest, most inappropriate SMILE.  It sends a chill through Nell. 
INT. PICTURE GALLERY - DUSK 
Nell bursts into the picture gallery and stops.  Standing there are Marrow, Theo and Luke, stricken silent by her entry.  Looks of shock on their faces.  Nell just stands there.  A beat.  And then it pours out of her, hysterical. 
NELL (cont'd) He hunted all those children in here.  The dead children, Josiah and Elizabeth and all of them... from the books... he took them up here... he played games... the ones from his mills he burned them up in the fireplace but she found out what he did and she killed him -- 
She takes a breath, and turns gray.  Before anyone else can react, her legs go out from under her, and she lands sitting.  Theo and Marrow get to her side fast. 
NELL (cont'd) -- he didn't kill her she killed him and ran away with her baby -- 
Marrow grabs her face.  It's gray, her eyes glazing over. 
MARROW Get a blanket! 
THEO It's okay... we're all here... 
Luke races out.  Theo, scared, looks at Marrow. 
THEO (cont'd) What's happening to her? 
MARROW She's in shock.  Come on. 
He starts to lift her.  Theo takes her other side. 
NELL After Rene... after she killed herself... he turned into a monster.  He did fill the house with children... he did, but... they weren't laughing... 
Nell is ugly, sprawling, in shock, as Theo and Marrow shuffle her to a padded bench on one side of the room. 
THEO Nell, what happened? 
NELL Carolyn showed me where she hid him, hid him with all the ones he killed -- 
MARROW Nell... please, Nell... take a deep breath... 
NELL And they're all locked together in here... and he won't let go of them! 
Marrow grabs her face. 
MARROW Nell! 
Luke rushes in with a blanket.  Theo covers Nell and then holds her, gently. 
MARROW (cont'd) Look at me, Nell.  Look at me! 
Nell manages to focus on him, her breath laboring. 
NELL Hugh Crain.  He's in the house. He's still here... 
Theo pulls back, goes very still.  The first hint of fear in her eyes. 
THEO No. 
Marrow sees the panic working on her, gives her a stern look: 
MARROW Theo!  You too.  Listen to me. 
The command derails Theo's train of thought.  Marrow stares at Nell in pity, can't bear it, and has to look away.  Finally he turns back to her, full of regret. 
MARROW Nell, you have to hear me.  Let me explain what's happening to you. (beat) You're participating in a study on hysteria. 
Everyone but Marrow REACTS. 
MARROW (cont'd) I've given you a powerful suggestion that you're in a haunted house.  I picked Hill House because it fits the expectations.  It was my... it was my theater, my stage. 
Theo glances at Luke: he's been right all along.  This was never about perception. 
LUKE Modelling small-group dynamics in the formation of narrative hallucinations.  You brought us here to scare us.  Insomnia, that was just a decoy issue.  You're disgusting. 
NELL Is this true?  I've been hypnotized? 
MARROW I hadn't done a study of how group fear affects individual performance.  Mass hysteria is like a story, Nell.  A communal story.  Someone starts it.  Then we all add a little more to it. And then for some reason -- no one knows how -- we start believing it.  This story shapes what we see and hear.  We interpret everything through it, make it fit the story. I started our story when I gave you the history of Hill House. You've added to it.  That's what this experiment has all been about.  That's what it was about, the experiment's over.  I'm pulling the plug.  This is my fault. 
NELL It's not real?  Crain?  He's not real? 
Marrow shoots him a look: shut up. 
MARROW Your fear of him was real.  That's all the ghost anyone needs. 
THEO How could you do this to people? 
Nell bucks in his arms, furious, desperate. 
NELL This is real, I'm not making it up!  Theo, you saw it!  You were there -- the banging and last night.  You, you all saw the painting! 
THEO Nell, it makes sense.  It all makes sense.  You and I, we were scaring each other, working each other up. 
NELL -- but the painting! 
Nobody says anythlng.  The silence tortures Nell. 
Marrow steps into the dark, vast room, his glasses glinting.  The faint outline of the fireplace on the far wall looms in the darkness. 
Marrow approaches it.  The mesh screen is still open.  Marrow stands there a moment.  Then looks in. 
He squats and tries to open the ash-drop.  It doesn't budge; it's jammed by the poker Nell dropped in. 
Marrow considers, then shakes his head, feels stupid for even coming in to check. 
Suddenly his CELL PHONE RINGS, startling him. 
MARROW Shit. (answering the phone) Hello?  Yes, this is Dr. Marrow. (beat) Oh, hello.  Thank you for returning the call. (beat) No.  You mean he hasn't returned? (long beat) No, we haven't seen him. (beat) Can you tell me, what sort of car does he drive? (beat, reacting) A Toyota... 
INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Luke stops Theo, carrying a tray of food and tea, outside the kitchen door. 
THEO We're fucked.  We're in a haunted house and we can't get out until the morning. 
LUKE You don't really believe it's haunted... Do you believe in ghosts? 
THEO That depends on your definition of ghosts.  I'm going to check on her, and then I'm going to stay awake. 
LUKE All night? 
THEO Yeah. 
LUKE You want company? 
THEO Maybe someday. 
Some sexual awareness. 
INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Nell lies in her bed asleep, the room dark except for the last, guttering end of one of the candles.  It goes out. 
A FAINT SOUND.  LONG, LOW, like the inarticulate murmur of a dozen madmen.  Nell stirs.  Her eyes open.  She hears the sound. 
The wall on the opposite side of the room catches the pale gloom from the window.  The twisting figures in the plaster, the low- relief, the shadows they make seem to COME TOGETHER AS AN EYE. Black.  Not human.  The woodwork around it like some half-face. 
The GIBBERING begins to RISE. 
OUT OF THE CORNER OF HER EYE she can see a FORM beside her in the bed. 
Nell's mouth moves.  She manages to form words, but it's just a whisper. 
NELL Theo... 
Nell reaches out under the covers. 
Her HAND is suddenly grasped. 
THE EYE on the wall stares.  The babbling, liquid, deep voice mounts, and as the shadows move ever so slowly, the EYE seems to roam over the room. 
NELL (cont'd) Oh, God.  It's looking for me. 
And then the babbling stops.  Nell grimaces in pain.  She tries to look at Theo, but it's far too DARK right there beside her. 
NELL (cont'd) Theo, my hand.  You're hurting me. 
In the place of the babbling, another sound.  High-pitched, drawn- out.  A CHILD'S CRY.  Nell reacts. 
The cry wails louder, coming through the wall.  It's a wail of agony.  A wail not of this earth.  Nell struggles, racked between the pain in her hand and the tortured child's cry. 
NELL (cont'd) A child.  No.  No!  I'm right HERE! 
The EYE focusses on her.  Dead on her.  Nell stops.  And with sudden violence, she's WRENCHED out of the bed by whatever's beside her. Nell hits the floor with a scream.  She grabs at the table on this side of the bed, pulling a lamp down on her, yanking at its chain. 
The room FLASHES into brilliance.  Nell stands up, panting... There is nothing in the room.  No Theo.  She looks at her hand. 
The eye on the wall is gone. 
NELL (cont'd) Oh, God.  Who was holding my hand? 
Nell snaps around.  There on the window, SPREADING before her eyes the frost on the glass is melting into a HORRIFYING FACE.  The face of CRAIN. 
Nell recoils in prickling fear.  Living fear.  Then her fear turns to RAGE.  In the blink of an eye there's a heavy ashtray in her hand, and it's flying at the window. 
NELL (cont'd) I will not let you hurt a CHILD! 
The window BASHES out into the night, the face vanishing with a HOWL of air. 
INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT 
NeIl explodes from her room, a flying fury of hate.  The child-cry seems to race ahead of her into -- 
INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS) 
-- Theo's room, which is empty.  Now it seems like it's coming from the door to the hall, is right there.  Nell races after it and -- 
Nell drags herself to the hand rail.  Marrow, Luke and Theo rush into view below. 
They all react to the sight of Nell at the precarious top -- with her insanely happy smile.  They think she's there to kill herself. Just like Rene Crain. 
They all freak out in a chorus of 'Nell!  No, Nell!' 
MARROW Nell!  Don't move. 
Nell couldn't anyway.  She just grins madly, tears running down her face.  Marrow grabs for the stairs, but they shift under Nell's movement from up above. 
LUKE It's not going to hold your weight. 
MARROW Just stay there, Nell! 
Marrow mounts the stairs.  The metal support rods sing out under his weight.  And the whole thing pitches, rolling around as he goes up. Five feet.  Ten feet.  Fifteen feet up.  The sway gets wilder as he goes. 
At twenty feet, with twenty more to go to reach Nell, he stops.  The stairs buck, sway out dizzily.  And then to his dismay, he realizes he's on the WRONG SIDE of the double helix staircase. 
MARROW (cont'd) Damn it. 
He straddles the rail to climb over to the other half. 
LUKE Don't! 
The sudden shift is too much for the old stairs.  The support rods CREASE and then the whole enormous column of steel from where Marrow is standing to the ground BURSTS from its supports. 
Luke shoves Theo aside, and the bottom half of the stairs spirals out in a massive, deafening COLLAPSE.  Marrow's cellular phone falls out of his pocket and shatters in hundred pieces across the floor. 
The top half of the stairs remains, still hanging from the ceiling. Nell grips the railing at the top. 
Marrow hangs there by one hand over the razor tangle of steel below. He flails out for the other stairway, swings himself over to it.  It takes a moment for him to realize he almost just died.  A moment of paralysis.  This is no longer an experiment.  No longer fun and games. 
MARROW Nell?  Are you up there? 
There she is.  Marrow forces himself to start climbing the shaky stairs.  Luke and Theo watch from below, tense. 
Then he's there.  Nell stands a mere arm's length from him on the other side of the railing. 
MARROW (cont'd) Come on, Nell.  You have to climb over and step back on the stairs. 
Nell barely seems to hear him.  Instead she looks at the DEFORMING SUPPORT RODS around her.  We HEAR the voices of the CHILDREN, calling to her. 
MARROW (cont'd) Nell!  Now! 
Theo, on the ground, calls up to Nell. 
THEO Nell, go with him!  Just go with him. 
Nell refocuses on him and then gingerly climbs over the railing. She hangs there.  She looks down at the tangled steel below... 
NELL The children want me.  They're calling me.  They need me. 
MARROW Nell.  You will come here now. 
Nell looks UP at him, hazy. 
And THEN BEHIND MARROW: the shifting clouds, the moon, the vines... and suddenly all these random elements behind him form a dark hideous face and in front of it a hand, and the hand is rushing forward to PUSH MARROW OFF THE STEPS. 
After we scream, NELL SCREAMS. 
NELL NO! 
And as Marrow falls forward, pushed by the force behind him, Nell grabs him... he is caught on the rail... As she has reached out to him, now she has fallen into thin air, and she falls towards Marrow, and they hold each other.  She has a hand... then a foot... she slips... she holds on again... and reaches the staircase.  She grabs on. 
A moment's peace... and then a new disaster: with a metallic POP POP POP the support rods spring from their anchors and the rest of the stairwell next to them drops to the ground in a catastrophic shattering of sound. 
Marrow looks behind him, to whatever it was that Nell saw over his shoulder.  He looks back at her.  Her eyes are closed, she won't open them. 
MARROW We're going down the stairs, Nell, I'm taking you down the stairs. 
He leads her go down the stairs. 
INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Marrow and Theo stand in the doorway to the shared bathroom watching Luke finish taping a trash bag over Nell's broken window.  Nell lies in her bed, asleep or unconscious, it's impossible to say.  Luke finishes, comes over.  Marrow is hushed, grim, exhausted. 
THEO She needs help. 
MARROW I'll take her with me to the University tomorrow.  I can't believe I read the test wrong.  I didn't see anything that looked like she was suicidal. 
LUKE You used the wrong test. 
THEO (indignant) Will the two of you shut up!  God damn it!  Maybe the tests were right, Marrow.  She's sensitive, she's vulnerable, but I don't think she's suicidal and I didn't have to test her.  Maybe she wasn't trying to kill herself. Maybe she was really scared. Maybe she really heard voices. 
Marrow looks away, doesn't want to say this.  Theo reads the feelings on his face. 
LUKE You're not telling us something. 
MARROW Watts.  Those were his keys Nell found.  His roommate called and said Watts left when he was supposed to.  I think he's here. 
Luke and Theo drag Nell down the stairs into the Great Hall.  Marrow brings up the rear.  They retreat for the entry as Luke puts his jacket over Nell's shoulders.  Marrow stops, looks back up the stairs. 
MARROW Wait a second!  Wait! 
All there is are the sounds of Nell, Luke and Theo making for the hall to the entry.  The House is silent. 
LUKE No. 
Luke goes out.  But Nell pauses, stopping Theo with her. 
The House is quiet.  Marrow's hand still outstretched.  Nell looks around the room.  There are heads everywhere, faces: animal heads, humans, gods, all staring from the woodwork, the carpets everything. All turning to her. 
Theo looks around, but can't see what Nell is seeing.  Nell's breath comes faster, disoriented, yet aware... 
NELL They're all in here.  All the ones he killed.  They're just children! We have to help them! 
THEO (to Marrow) Come on!  Why are we waiting? 
Even now, Marrow can't believe what he just saw, but Theo's voice brings him back.  He whirls, grabs onto Nell, helps Theo drag her out. 
EXT. HILL HOUSE DRIVEWAY/GATE - NIGHT 
Four cars sit behind the massive, locked gate, as far from Hill House as possible.  Marrow paces past the fence, staring out, the road beyond leading out of this place, so close... 
Luke digs with a pen knife at the marble footing below the gate.  No easy way under it.  He stands and gazes at the razor-sharp spikes twenty feet up.  There's no way to climb this. 
THEO Oh my God we need to call someone? 
Marrow just looks at her and walks back to Nell's car. 
INT. NELL'S CAR - NIGHT 
Nell sits in the passenger seat of her car, wrapped in her jacket. She stares out at the gate, at Luke and Theo consulting.  Marrow appears in the window. 
MARROW You okay? 
Nell nods, but there's something about her not right. 
NELL Why did you bring me here? 
Marrow shakes his head, doesn't fully understand. 
NELL (cont'd) Why did you call me and tell me to look in the paper for the ad? 
MARROW Nell, what are you talking about? I never called you. 
Nell stares, dismayed, but Marrow is dead serious. 
NELL But you told me to look in the paper!  You told me I'd be perfect! 
MARROW Nell, the first time I ever spoke with you in person was the night we met here. 
NELL Then who called me? 
Hill House looms behind her, windows forming eyes, the carport a gaping mouth. 
Nell's dismay becomes a cold, terrifying understanding, and she turns and stares back up at the House. 
Luke comes up with Theo on the other side of the car. 
THEO Nell -- 
LUKE -- how much is this car worth? 
EXT. HILL HOUSE DRIVEWAY/GATE - NIGHT 
Theo pulls Nell away from the drive.  Marrow stands back from Nell's car where Luke belts in behind the wheel. 
Luke eases the car forward to the gate.  He advances until the car's bumper makes contact.  And then without further ado, REVS the engine. 
The Buick grinds into the heavy steel bars.  The chain tightens around the two halves of the gate, but shows not the slightest strain. 
INT. NELL'S CAR - NIGHT 
Luke grimaces, shifts into low, pours on the gas. 
EXT. MAIN GATE - NIGHT 
The car fishes back and forth against the gate, hurling a shower of gravel on the other cars off to the side of the road.  Marrow, Nell and Theo move back. 
One of the Buick's headlights breaks.  The grill mashes in.  For a long moment the car struggles against the Gate.  No good.  Luke eases up. 
Theo looks at Marrow.  Luke puts the car in reverse. 
LUKE Get the hell out of the way! 
They back way up.  Luke vanishes up the drive in the car.  And then the Buick comes around the corner, accelerating, slicing down the gravel road. 
INT. NELL'S CAR - NIGHT 
INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT 
Marrow, Luke and Theo enter the greenhouse, the heavy growth forbidding in the darkness.  They spread out on the parallel walkways. 
THEO Nell? 
They reach the transept, turn down it toward the statue of Crain at the end looming white in the dusk. 
Dead silence.  Then Marrow SCREAMS. 
Under a thin layer of ice underneath the giant hand that protrudes from the pond we find Watt's body, as if the hand wants to keep him there forever.  Marrow did find his Watts, a horrifying sight. 
MARROW Oh my God it's Watts. 
As at the same time out of the mouth from the sculpture erupts a river of blood, scaring the hell out of them.  Their clothes splattered with blood, Marrow quickly leads them out of there. 
INT. LOCKED ROOM - NURSERY - NIGHT 
Nell stands there in the darkness, sensing the expanse of the room, turning... and kicking something on the floor. 
It is a wooden toy train.  Then she sees a rocking horse by her feet.  It is a NURSERY.  Turn-of-the-century. 
And as Nell's eyes adjust, as she tries to see what else is in here in the dark, she begins to make out WHITE SHROUDED SHAPES. 
Against the wall.  A bed covered in a sheet.  A table beside it.  A HAND BELL.  A CANE. 
Just like Nell's sick room at home.  Nell realizes it, covers her mouth. 
The furniture is in EXACTLY the same position, though the sheets covering the pieces are stained, FAR OLDER. 
And on the wall, something in a frame is covered with a piece of sheet. 
Nell approaches it in trepidation and removes the cloth.  For a long beat, all we see is her face as it goes slack.  Understanding. 
The framed thing is a stitchery.  It says: A PLACE FOR EVERYTHING, EVERYTHING IN ITS PLACE. 
Just like the one at home. 
INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT 
Marrow, Theo and Luke barge into the Great Hall. 
THEO Nell! 
LUKE We can't stay here looking for her.  She doesn't want to be found... 
Marrow and Theo look at him.  It's what they've been thinking, but haven't had the courage to say.  Theo stops suddenly.  Turns around. The men notice, and pause. 
Then they hear it.  Faint.  Floating down from upstairs somewhere. Nell's TUNE.  It doesn't sound right, but it's hard to tell as it's coming from so far away. 
They look at each other, start for the stairs. 
INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE LOCKED ROOM - NIGHT 
Theo, Marrow and Luke stand at the end of the dark hallway.  They stare at the gaping doors to the nursery at the far end.  The tune is coming from within.  Abruptly, it stops. 
And instead of Nell's tune, there's a repetitive CREAK.  CREAK. CREAK. 
In rising dread, Theo starts forward. 
It takes Marrow and Luke a moment to come after her.  The CREAKING gets louder, unnerving. 
They get to the doors, Theo first.  She pushes them wide. 
INT. LOCKED ROOM - NURSERY - NIGHT 
They stop there, staring into the shadows. 
THEO Nell? 
And there, hunched over something turning a CREAKING CRANK of some sort, is Nell. 
MARROW Nell. 
Nell straightens from whatever it is she was doing and turns to them.  Theo steps toward her, afraid for her. 
THEO What'd you come back for, babe? 
NELL Just had to be sure. 
LUKE Come on, Jesus!  Let's go! 
Marrow shuts him up with a vicious gesture, stays back himself as Theo approaches Nell. 
THEO Let's go, hon.  Don't you want to go back to your little apartment where you can hear the buoy out in the harbor when the wind is just right? 
Nell smiles at Theo.  She's holding something. 
NELL Oh, Theo.  You know I don't have an apartment. 
The WINDOW SHATTERS, dozens of panes blown out into the darkness beyond.  But the metal LATTICE remains, the chair's legs stuck in it. 
Marrow and Luke pause, taken back a beat.  They hustle over to it. Theo and Nell stand a few feet back. 
Luke grabs the chair, levers it, tries to pry open the metal. Marrow reaches through, knocking loose glass, trying to find some sort of handle on the other side. 
THEO Hurry! 
Theo watches the door behind them.  Luke pries at the inch of metal between him and freedom.  It won't break. 
MARROW They don't open! 
Marrow slips on the broken glass and catches hold of the lattice LACERATING his ring and little finger.  With a cry of pain, he lands on the floor. 
MARROW (cont'd) Oh Jesus my hand. 
Nell and Theo fall to the floor to help him.  Marrow moans, and Nell grips his injured hand in hers.  Fast, like she was born a trauma doctor, Nell clamps off the blood with her fingers. 
NELL Give me your shoelace. 
Marrow tugs at his shoe, in shock, and looks at Nell.  She's calm. Terrifyingly calm.  And in that moment, he realizes she's not out of her mind.  She just understands things beyond what he could possible begin to understand. 
MARROW What'll happen to us, Nell? 
NELL Nothing, if you leave right now. There's a war going on all around us.  Don't get in the way, please. 
Nell cinches the shoelace tight around his wrist. 
Luke throws down the chair, giving up on the window. 
LUKE Shit!  All right, you sonofabitch... 
As he looks up at another one of Crain's painting hanging on the wall.  Nell Theo with Marrow straggle toward the great hall. 
INT. VESTIBULE TOWARDS GREAT HALL - NIGHT 
LUKE Maybe this'll get your attention! 
Luke flicks a LIGHTER out of his pocket. 
MARROW Luke! 
Before anyone can stop him, he LIGHTS a towering TAPESTRY on fire. 
He races from one to the next, lighting them.  Theo and Nell help Marrow up, back away as Luke shoots by. 
All the tapestries are ON FIRE, blazing up like torches. 
At last, his rage spent, heaving, he moves to join the others at the center of the room.  They stare at him, appalled, afraid.  Knowing he has done something wrong. 
Luke stops.  Maybe fifteen feet away.  He sees their expressions. 
LUKE What? 
Nell looks over at the burning tapestries.  Heat sears the stone, blackens the carved figures in the woodwork. 
The ruddy light casts deep shadows throughout the room. 
LUKE (cont'd) We'll get out after this wing burns down.  Let's go. 
But there's no need.  The tapestries are consuming themselves too fast to ignite the walls or ceiling.  They all realize it.  As the last flaming scraps of cloth fall to the floor and go out, there is utter silence. 
INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT 
Luke looks at them helplessly.  An awful, impending beat.  Without warning, the huge PERSIAN CARPET he's standing on JERKS out from under him.  Luke falls on his stomach. 
Stunned, Luke looks straight into Nell's eyes.  Then the carpet slides fast for the FIREPLACE.  It whips up to the hearth and sends Luke flying through the chain curtains. 
The others are speechless.  They can do nothing but watch as Luke lays there on the ashdrop.  A long moment. 
NELL (to the house, to Crain) No!  No!  Let them go! 
She knows what is going to happen, is powerless to prevent it.  Luke stands up, has time to give her a look. 
And then the LION'S HEAD FLUE drops open behind him.  Luke looks back into its iron eyes -- 
-- and with SHOCKING SPEED the FLUE snaps shut again, taking Luke's head off his body. 
The decapitated corpse falls back in the fireplace like a puppet with its strings cut. 
Nell, Marrow and Theo stand there.  Not sure of what just happened, their minds unable to accept it. 
A sound comes up in Theo's throat.  A sob.  A horrified whimper. Marrow and Nell stand there speechless.  It's as if saying the obvious will make it real: 
MARROW Luke. 
BANG.  The blood-splattered LION'S HEAD drops open.  Luke's head falls out. 
Theo SCREAMS and SCREAMS again.  Nell backs away with Marrow, almost has the presence of mind to drag them away, but -- 
The terrified animal heads on the balustrade, their eyes flash in fear.  The lions above the big fireplace snarl restlessly. 
Cherubim, afraid, clasp hands.  Gods and men pay unwilling witness to what is now coming down the stairs. 
The upper flight of stairs strains under the weight of the thing coming down, over our heads, coming down, down... and now at the landing.  The sound stops. 
Nell's BREATH escapes, visible in the cold as she watches, rooted to the floor in the Grand Entry. 
Darkness against darkness.  Something BLOCKS the glint of the gilded frame up on the landing.  Something huge.  A beat. 
And then a SHADOW sweeps across the scene, impenetrable, darkening the stairs, wiping them from sight, like something gliding down them. 
Before our eyes, out of the most subtle variation of shadow, flickers into existence: 
THE SHAPE, tall, eight or nine feet, featureless, black, but in the proportions of an enormous man with his head bowed, shoulders stooped.  And just like that, all it is... 
...is a well of darkness and night once again.  We don't even know for sure what we just saw.  But it is still there in that bar of shadow. 
Nell goes rigid, not breathing, not seeing anything but the awful presence.  She is spellbound. 
BANG.  A door in the connecting passage opens, and Theo and Marrow come out, between Nell in the entry and the thing in the Great Hall beyond. 
In a flash the SHAPE is moving at Theo and Marrow.  They don't see it, have their backs turned. 
THEO Nell!  There you -- 
But Nell is looking past them.  They see her face and turn around. 
NELL Nooo, not them! 
What is coming at them makes the blood stop. 
The Shape rushes from the Great Hall, vanishing as it crosses the pools of moonlight, reforming darker as it hits shadow again, its wake like a shockwave, invisible itself, but VISIBLE IN ITS EFFECTS: 
Theo SCREAMS.  Marrow stumbles back.  And then Nell's voice rings out: 
NELL (cont'd) Is this where she bashed your brains in? 
The onrushing presence STOPS.  Seems to turn its attention to Nell, standing there before the towering front doors. 
NELL (cont'd) When you came in the door?  I bet that was the last thing you expected.  Right?  From Carolyn? (beat) You thought, oh, Carolyn, I've taken it all out of her, you thought, Oh, Carolyn, she's no threat.  Carolyn.  Great Grandma Carolyn.  Did you know that? 
Nell shows no fear.  There's a ferocious edge to her voice. 
NELL (cont'd) She found out what you did, and she knew there was only one way to stop you.  And she stopped you, so you couldn't torture anymore of the living. (beat) But you wouldn't even let go of the dead, would you?  Well, now I'm here.  They called me.  Did you know that?  They've been crying out for help for a long time.  And I heard them. 
She points out at the human remains strewn all over the Great Hall. 
NELL (cont'd) And I won't let you hurt them anymore. 
The SHAPE hovers there, silent.  Air and shadow distort around it. The carved animal heads on the Newell posts and walls loll back and forth, alive then not-alive.  Pieces of furniture stamp in fury, try to animate themselves, but can't find limbs that work. 
NELL (cont'd) Come on, Hugh Crain, you know what to do.  We've both been here before. 
The SHAPE HOWLS FORWARD, knocking everyone out of their seats.  It flies across the floor at Nell. 
Marrow and Theo are slammed against the walls out of its way. 
Nell OPENS WIDE HER ARMS in an EMBRACE. 
It's ON HER, but just as it seems to hit, it SPLITS like she went right through it.  The SHAPE and all the debris in its wake IMPACTS deep in the enormous doors. 
The carved WOODWORK seems to suck it all in, cracking, groaning. And then all the SCREAMS are cut off. 
Nell stands there with her arms spread.  A long moment. 
She opens her eyes. 
And then the woodwork LASHES OUT, grabs her from behind, slams her back against the doors.  THE BLOW HAS KILLED HER. 
We feel her bones break as she crumples, is drawn into the woodwork. 
And for a few seconds Nell's body just hangs there... and then it gently falls down. 
Theo lets out a horrified cry as she runs toward Nell. 
THEO NELL! 
Marrow gets up off the floor in terror and awe, his life his beliefs changed forever.  He walks over to Nell and feels her pulse, knowing it is a useless gesture as Theo softly moans over Nell. 
And as the camera pans up across the entry door, we see a new carving in the sculpted doors.  It is a woman and as we move in we can see that she wears the same necklace as Nell... 
INT. HILL HOUSE FRONT DOORS, ENTRY - EARLY MORNING 
The HOUSE INHALES.  And BOOM! 
The front doors blast wide.  Every door in the entry slams open. 
EXT. HILL HOUSE - EARLY MORNING 
