HELLRAISER II by Peter Atkins - November 1, 1987 Second Draft 
HELLRAISER II : HELLBOUND 
Screenplay by Peter Atkins Original Story by Clive Barker 
2nd. Draft November 1, 1987 
FADE IN: 
1    TITLES 
The screen is composed of large, straight-edge areas of black and white that rest against each other in a manner that suggests some kind of pattern, without making a final sense; it is as if we are too close to something that, could we see it from a distance, would be clear to us. 
These areas shift and change - both their own shape and their relationship to their neighbors.  New patterns are being made, new solutions found - but they are just beyond our comprehension. The effect should be aesthetically pleasing but simultaneously frustrating and, perhaps, a little unsettling. 
Shortly into this sequence, and subsequently inter-cut throughout, we begin to see, in FLASHBACK, the story of HELLRAISER.  Arriving first as very short shock-images, these brief sections eventually convey to the audience all the necessary emotional and narrative information they will need to understand the background to HELLBOUND. 
Meanwhile, the black and white shapes are still moving, the unseen patterns still shifting. 
Over this constantly mobile background, the TITLES begin to appear. 
As the TITLES unroll, another change comes over the puzzle pieces behind them.  Where before they moved and related only in two dimensions, gradually we see that they are now claiming depth as well.  The puzzle we are looking at is now a three-dimensional one.  The pieces are now solid blocks of various geometric shapes, locking together, moving apart, finding their final position. 
Finally, as the TITLES come to their conclusion, the camera pulls back until we can see clearly what we have been looking at.  As the final piece clicks into positions we see it is THE LAMENT CONFIGURATION from HELLRAISER. 
The closed box rests before our eyes a moment and then the circle in the centre of the side that faces us gives way to an image of a dusty street with a market. Simultaneous to this, the camera TRACKS into this image until it fills the screen 
2    EXT   A STREET BAZAAR   DAY 
The TRACK continues up through the market and then turns through the stalls to find a store behind them. As we TRACK through the store's doorway, we pass through a beaded curtain that momentarily reminds us of the TORTURE ROOM in HELLRAISER. 
3   INT.   STORE   DAY 
Once we are in the store itself, though, this impression disappears. It is an ordinary, slightly seedy, junk shop. 
The stall seems to sell an odd mixture of items; native trinkets share space with second-hand items from European colonists. These second-hand goods give us some sense of period. They suggest the late 'twenties/early 'thirties. This is reinforced by the sounds coming from one of them, an old-fashioned mahogany-cased wireless. A foreign voice speaks from it in a language we don't understand, though perhaps the words "BBC world service" are discerned in the middle, and then a dance-hall tune of the period begins to play. (Depending on availability, it would be nice to have something relevant - 'I'll follow my Secret Heart', perhaps, or 'Dancing in the Dark'.) 
Into shot comes an ENGLISH OFFICER. His uniform, too, suggests the 'twenties, the last days of Empire. He is tall, thin, and dark-haired, but at no stage do we see his face clearly. He stands in front of the stall. 
The TRADER suddenly stands behind the counter. He has been crouched beneath it, as if checking or preparing something. He is a big, impressive-looking black man. His face is totally impassive as he stares at his customer. 
Neither of the men speak. Obviously, a deal has already been struck and today is the pay-off. 
The OFFICER, a little arrogantly - suggesting racist contempt, slaps down a bag of gold on the stall's counter. 
Keeping his eyes firmly on the OFFICER, he reaches beneath him and brings something up from under the counter and places it In the OFFICER'S outstretched hand. He is holding a LAMENT CONFIGURATION. 
The OFFICER turns and leaves. The camera TRACKS out of the store, looking at the TRADER as he watches the departing OFFICER. 
4    INT   THE OFFICER'S QUANSETT HUT   DAY 
It is typical of temporary military quarters, complete with a curved ceiling of corrugated material. It is stripped of furniture. The blinds are down. 
The OFFICER, still in uniform, sits cross-legged, the BOX held before him. 
He is already well into the solving process and very soon after the shot begins the BOX begins to speed its own solution. 
Finally, two sections of the BOX shoot upwards and begin to peel apart from each other, ready to reveal its secret. 
The OFFICER, suddenly nervous, drops the BOX and scuttles back across the floor to stare at it. The BOX lands upright, its extended parts still open above it. For a beat of two, nothing happens. We become aware of the OFFICER'S pulse, throbbing excitedly on the soundtrack. 
5    INT   THE OFFICER'S QUANSETT HUT   DAY    OFFICER'S P.O.V. 
Slowly we, the camera, and the OFFICER, move towards the still, silent, but menacing BOX. 
We approach it until finally we are above it, looking down into the opening it has made in itself. There is undefined movement inside. 
Suddenly, something flies up directly at us. We glimpse it only briefly, but enough to see its nature. Unlike the hooks that flaw at FRANK in HELLRAISER, this is more organic than metallic. Pink and flesh-like but on a long gray-blue stalk, it flies upward, its lips peeling apart gapingly to reveal scores of yellow, discoloured, and viciously sharp teeth-like hooks. 
The OFFICER screams and the screen begins to take on a red tint so that, just as the thing is about to fill the screen with its hungry mouth, the entire screen turns red. 
MALAHIDE Tiffany. Come. 
All the TIFFANYS move quietly toward him until they all disappear from view. Then the real TIFFANY comes into shot, her back to us, and walks toward what we now see to be the real MALAHIDE, who is standing in a doorway deliberately framed like a mirror to confuse the customers. 
TIFFANY places her hands docilely on to MALAHIDE's outstretched ones. 
22   INT.   HOSPITAL ROOM   NIGHT 
KIRSTY has been dozing fitfully, but is awakened by strange noises. At first terrified, she slowly realises it is simply someone being put in the room next door. 
She waits until activity has ceased and then moves to her door. It is unlocked. She moves out into the corridor. 
23   INT.   HOSPITAL CORRIDOR   NIGHT 
Looking warily from side to side, KIRSTY edges out into the corridor, along it, and then stops by the door of the adjoining room. 
24   INT.   TIFFANY'S ROOM   NIGHT   C.U. 
A hand fits a piece of jig-saw puzzle into the space it belongs. We know it is a jig-saw by the shape of the pieces, but it is clearly not the conventional type - a picturesque photo - because all we can see at this close-up angle are large areas of black and white. 
25    INT. TIFFANY'S ROOM   NIGHT 
We now see that the puzzle is on the floor of a room of a similar size to KIRSTY'S. It is slightly more decorated; It has curtains and wallpaper. And a tiled floor. Sitting cross-legged on the floor next to the puzzle is TIFFANY. 
The puzzle, which we can now see more clearly, is an intricate abstract design in black and white. There are several pieces still un-fitted but TIFFANY is working steadily, efficiently, and with complete concentration. 
On a wall behind her there is a visual record of her progress over the last few months. Sealed in plastic by staff members are. Puzzles she has solved, with dates marking her advancement. They begin with the simplest wood block animals usually given to very small children. passing through photo-puzzles of increasing difficulty, and culminating in one or two other examples of the kind of complicated pattern-work she is involved in now. 
26   INT.   HOSPITAL CORRIDOR   NIGHT 
We pull out to see that this is KIRSTY'S P.O.V. from the glass panel in the door of TIFFANY'S room. 
TIFFANY looks up at one point and eye-contact is made. KIRSTY gives a tentative smile and a small wave. TIFFANY stares at her. The stare is long but unresponsive and finally TIFFANY returns to the puzzle. 
KIRSTY has her back to us and the camera is quite close in when a hand suddenly moves into shot and touches her shoulder. 
KIRSTY jumps back in alarm, fear on her face. But it is only KYLE. 
KYLE raises his hand in apology. 
KYLE Oh, Jesus, I'm sorry. God, if anyone should know not to do that, it's me. I'm sorry. O.K.? 
KIRSTY nods and gives a nervous smile. KYLE, still embarrassed by his foolishness and eager to change the subject, nods towards the glass panel. 
KYLE Sad, huh? She's been here six months. Her name's TIFFANY. 
KIRSTY What's the matter with her? 
KYLE Almost complete withdrawal. She hasn't said a word for nearly two years. 
KIRSTY God, that's terrible. 
KYLE Yeah. Doctor Malahide's got her doing these jig-saws and things, though. Says it's helping to bring her out. 
KYLE ushers KIRSTY back into her own room. 
27   INT.   HOSPITAL ROOM   DAY 
As he closes the door to KIRSTY's room, KYLE reaches into the pocket of his lab-coat and produces a small box of pills. 
KYLE Anyway, let's concentrate on you for a moment. Wanna suck on this for me? 
KIRSTY looks up at him sharply. He is proffering a pill and grinning facetiously. 
KIRSTY Hey, good joke, Kyle. Do you always come on to the mentally ill? 
KYLE's face falls. He blushes. Pressing the pills into KIRSTY's hand, he backs off to the door, apologising. 
KYLE Shit. Sorry. Here's the pills. Red face. Door. Bye. 
He exits hurriedly, closing the door behind him. KIRSTY grins despite herself. She looks at the pill for a second or two and then puts it firmly back in the box. Realising there is no bedside table, she puts the box on the wooden chair. 
In the first, a middle-aged, overweight woman sits completely motionless in the middle of the floor. She is dressed in a shapeless white robe and is sitting crosslegged. Her head is shaven, her eyes are rolled completely up into the sockets so that only white shows. 
In the second, a very thin man of about thirty is pressed as tight as he can be into one corner of the room. His hair is long and he has a full beard. He is naked but not unadorned - his body and much of his cell wall is smeared in excrement. 
In the third, a man of about MALAHIDE'S age-stands in the centre of the room. He is of normal build but his head is shaved. His face, scalp, and hands are covered in self-inflicted and amaterurish tattoos- all of crosses. He is dressed in T-shirt and jeans. With both hands he holds aloft a silver crucifix, pointing it in all directions, as if under constant siege by Devils. He mutters prayers and invocations constantly. 
In the fourth, a man in his early twenties restrained in a strait-jacket. He shuffles around on the call-floor, his eyes twitching and flitting from one part of his body to another. 
BROWNING (muttering) Get them off me. Get them off me. 
Off-camera, we hear the sound of KIRSTY's sobbing - which bridges the CUT TO: 
33 INT.  HOSPITAL ROOM DAY 
KYLE enters, having heard KIRSTY crying. She is sitting with her legs over the side of the bed with her face in her hands. 
KYLE immediately sits next to her and puts an arm around her shoulder. He doesn't force her to speak. He lets her let the tears out. Finally, she looks up. 
KIRSTY I...I had a visitor. 
KYLE What? 
KIRSTY Oh, Jesus. I can't explain. It's ...it's. I don't know how to help! I have to save him and I don't know how to help! 
KYLE (Carefully) Kirsty, I'm sorry...  don't understand. I... 
KIRSTY I know. No-one can. But I have to save him. Where's the other doctor? He said He'd listen. He promised. 
KYLE responds quickly to this. His faith in MALAHIDE is strong, despite that curious incident of the previous night when MALAHIDE followed RONSON out of the room. 
KYLE Dr. Malahide. Yes. Look, I'll fetch him. You take it easy. I'm sure he can help. 
KYLE stands up, making soothing motions with his hands, and heads for the door. 
KIRSTY Help. No, no-one can help. I just want someone to listen or I WILL go crazy. 
KYLE If anyone can help, HE can. 
KIRSTY turns and gives KYLE a strange look as he opens the door. 
KIRSTY Yeah? He got a ticket to Hell? 
34    INT.    HOSPITAL CORRIDOR     DAY 
We TRACK with KYLE down the corridor, eventually reaching an impressive door, which is slightly ajar. Even before we reach it, we hear MALAHIDE's voice. He is clearly on the phone. Because of the nature of what he is hearing, KYLE pauses when he reaches the door, listening with a confused expression on his face. 
MALAHIDE (off-camera & gradually fading up) Officer Kucich? Yes, Doctor Malahide. You've spoken to Ronson? Yes ... That's right. The mattress ... No, I'll meet you by the side entrance. No, no, my HOUSE. Yes, let me make that clear. The house, NOT the hospital. ... Yes ... Fine, and thank you. 
We hear the phone click. KYLE waits a moment and then walks swiftly through the door, speaking as he does so. 
KYLE Doctor Malahide ... ? 
35   INT.   HOSPITAL ROOM    DAY 
KIRSTY'S face fills the screen. Her voice is slightly dreamy, as if she is still trying to understand herself the story she is about to tell. 
KIRSTY It must have been going on forever... 
Her voice trails off. We pull out to see KIRSTY sitting up on her bed. MALAHIDE on the wooden chair, and KYLE standing by the door. 
MALAHIDE's voice pulls her back. 
MALAHIDE Kirsty...? 
KIRSTY snaps back and continues to speak in a more normal voice. 
KIRSTY But the part I know about, That must have started with my Uncle Frank... 
MALAHIDE Then let us speak of it ... 
DISSOLVE TO 
It is a book of faces. There are about fifteen sheets in the binder. Some of them are genuine photographic prints, some photocopies of original photos. They range widely in age, race, and sex. They are all full-face portraits. Chronologically, the range is extensive too. Some pictures (generally photocopies) appear to date from the earliest days of photography, the late 1880's, others have an Edwardian appearance, or suggest the 1920's. Only one or two seem to be less than thirty years old. 
KYLE flicks back and forward in the book, wondering on the significance of these people. 
He is lost in the musings when the click of the front door tells him MALAHIDE has returned. 
KYLE closes the book and quickly slips it back into the drawer. He heads rapidly for the window he came in through but realises MALAHIDE is too close for him to open it and make good his escape. Instead he stands between the window and the curtains, pulling the latter closed over him. 
MALAHIDE enters the room, leading BROWNING who is still strait- jacketed. 
44    INT.    BEHIND THE CURTAIN        NIGHT 
We see KYLE standing very still in the limited space behind the curtains. It is clearly seen that, given the thoroughness with which he closed the curtains and his immobile position, he is unable to see what is happening in the room. He can hear, but not see. 
45   INT.   OBSESSION ROOM    NIGHT 
MALAHIDE leads BROWNING across to the mattress. Standing beside it, he unbuckles and removes the strait-jacket from his patient. 
BROWNING, beneath the strait-jacket, is naked to the waist. His arms and cheat are a mass of scars of various age and size. 
MALAHIDE gestures to the mattress. Now that his arms are free, BROWNING is scratching furiously. 
MALAHIDE Mr. Browning. Please, lie down. 
BROWNING lies down, still scratching, trust and hope in his eyes. 
46  INT.   OBSESSION ROOM   BROWNING'S DELUSION  (BROWNING'S P.O.V.) 
As if looking through BROWNING's eyes, we see his body stretched out before us on the mattress. 
The naked chest and arms are covered with raised lumps, red and painful-looking. 
As his scratching arms attack these lumps, they break open, revealing vile black insects that have hatched beneath his skin. BROWNING brushes these away while he scratches at the remaining lumps. 
47   INT.   OBSESSION ROOM   NIGHT 
BROWNING has already re-opened some of the more recent scars, and blood slowly rises to the surface of his skin. 
MALAHIDE walks over to his writing tableland goes into one of the drawers. 
He produces an old-fashioned cut-throat razor and walks back to BROWNING 
MALAHIDE Here. This will help. 
He proffers the razor. BROWNING siezes it. MALAHIDE steps back quickly, a mixture of anticipation and apprehension on his face. 
BROWNING slashes at his body and left arm with a short, sharp, slicing motions. In his mind, he is lancing the cysts that contain the tormenting insects. In reality, he is inflicting horrifying damage on himself. 
Blood pours from the multitude of wounds, running over his body and down onto the mattress. 
Suddenly, without any preliminaries, two painfully thin, flayed, mucus-covered arms shoot out of the mattress, one on either side of the still-busy BROWNING. 
They wrap themselves tightly across his chest and crush him tightly to the mattress, as a head, similarly wasted, oozes out of the mattress to the side of BROWNING's head. 
Beneath his delusions, BROWNING suddenly has an inkling of what is happening to him. His eyes widen and his mouth opens ready to emit a scream but the monster beneath him forces a hand over his mouth as it buries its face into the soft flesh of his neck. 
Two legs now rise from the oozing slime that the bloodstains on the mattress have become. They too wrap themselves around BROWNING so that he is held tight. 
Finally, with titanic effort, he gathers enough momentum to roll completely free of the mattress and falls to the floor beside it. The thing on his back now is pulling free from the bed of bubbling, frothing slime that the mattress now is with a sliding, slurping sound. 
The monster's face is now deep in the flesh of his throat, and even as BROWNING forces himself up first onto one knee and then, very unsteadily, onto his feet, we can see him wasting away - his face losing its fullness and colour, his chest sinking in on itself. 
The creature, which is still wrapped around him and clinging tight is, unlike him, growing in stature by the second. Muscles are inflating, arteries pumping more vigorously, and flesh itself filling out. 
Its horrific thin-ness when it first appeared effectively unsexed it but now, as its regeneration continues, the fullness of its hips, the roundness of its thighs, and the sacs of fat and muscle that bloom above its ribs confirm its female nature. If there was any doubt that this was JULIA, it is now disappearing. 
BROWNING is now nearly a walking corpse and it is the strength of his will alone that allows him to take a few faltering steps with JULIA still enveloping him. With the desperate strength with which she clings to him and the way her legs are wrapped around his hips, it is like an obscenely perverse parody of sexual passion. 
MALAHIDE has been watching all this with an incredible mix of emotions playing across his face. Still human enough to feel both fear and disgust at what is happening he is nevertheless awe struck and exhilarated. He has waited all his life for such an irrefutable demonstration of the power and the truth of the supernatural. 
Similarly, the scientist in him is fascinated by the living anatomy lessons that JULIA's regeneration and BROWNING rapid decay offer. 
KYLE opens his mouth a few times, as if unsure what to say. 
KYLE It's all true. 
53   INT.   TIFFANY'S ROOM   NIGHT 
TIFFANY walks around her room, staring at her completed puzzles - those on the wall and the one on the floor - and waiting for the next one. 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN 
54   EXT.   MALAHIDE'S HOUSE   DAY 
A simple shot tells us it is the next morning. 
55   INT.   OBSESSION ROOM   MALAHIDE'S HOUSE   DAY 
MALAHIDE , dressed in a black suit, is in the room, staring at the empty mattress. We TRACK with him through to his LIVING ROOM. 
56   INT.   LIVING ROOM  MALAHIDE'S HOUSE   DAY 
In contrast to the secret and private obsession room, this room is the tasteful and upmarket room of the successful professional. 
It is a long spacious room with modern furniture and white walls. The walls are mostly free of decoration save for two or three large canvases of abstract art. 
The longest wall is broken up only by a low circular table, which rests against it about half way down. On this table is a very simple black vase containing a spray of beautiful white lilies. Above this vase on the wall is a large frameless mirror. 
As MALAHIDE enters, the first thing he sees is a bloody palm- print on one of his white walls. He blinks at it and looks down into the room. We CUT TO; 
JULIA. At first it seems she is staring at the lilies, but as we TRACK around her, we realise she is staring at the reflection of her skinned self. 
Her face snarls at herself, she roars with rage, forms her hand into a fist and shatters the mirror. 
MALAHIDE rushes towards her. She swings round and freezes him with a glance. 
They hold their positions for a moment, MALAHIDE nervous and JULIA furious, and then JULIA makes herself relax. She sighs, takes a few deep breaths, and then speaks. 
JULIA I'm cold. 
TIME CUT 
57   INT.   LIVING ROOM   MALAHIDE'S HOUSE   DAY 
CLOSE UP on a strangely Art Deco electric fan heater, with bright red coils emitting waves of heat. 
We pull out to see MALAHIDE standing by the table with the flowers. There is now a half-full glass of wine on the table, along with an ashtray where a cigarette burns away ignored. A pack of cigarettes is now visible in the breast pocket of MALAHIDE's jacket. 
JULIA enters the room and closes the door behind her. She is dressed in one of MALAHIDE'S suits. It is a light weight suit of white linen, a suit for expensive holidays in hot countries. 
She crosses the room to the table; pausing slightly in the centre of the room, to allow MALAHIDE to look at her. 
JULIA Well? 
MALAHIDE'S nervousness has retreated a little, he manages to smile. He nods his head slowly a few times. 
MALAHIDE Yes... Yes. You look... 
JULIA Surreal? Strange? Nightmarish? 
MALAHIDE No. You look... 
He pauses, lost for words. 
JULIA doesn't wait for an answer. She crosses to the table and takes up his glass of wine. She downs it in one. 
MALAHIDE stares at her, a little surprised. 
JULIA Yes, I still like WINE ... 
She smiles strangely at him and then moves closer. Slowly, keeping her eyes on his, she reaches into his breast pocket for his packet of cigarettes and places one in her mouth. 
He strokes at her back gently and their bodies relax. 
JULIA (almost coyly) Now all we need is a skin. 
60   INT.   BATHROOM KYLE'S APARTMENT   DAY 
CLOSE UP on shower jets hitting KIRSTY's face and naked shoulders. 
Her eyes are closed, but she smiles in pleasure as the water refreshes her. 
A knocking is heard. KIRSTY moves her head out of the water's path and shouts. 
KIRSTY Yeah? 
61   INT.   KYLE'S APARTMENT   DAY 
It is basically a studio apartment - everything except the bathroom facilities is in the one room. There is a sofa - with sheets and blankets on it - a bed, a dining/all-purpose table with two chairs, shelves full of records and books, and a small working desk against one of the walls. The desk is weighed down by text books and notes and, tacked to the wall above it, are medical prints, some of the brain and central nervous system, but also two fullcoloured anatomical prints - one of a man and one of a woman. They could almost be portraits of JULIA and FRANK. 
KYLE, fully dressed, is standing by the bathroom door, his hand still in a knocking position. 
KYLE You O.K.? 
Silence. 
KYLE Kirsty? You 0. K.? 
The bathroom door opens and KIRSTY Comes into the main room, dressed in a toweling robe that is clearly a 'hers' not a 'his'. 
She crosses the room to a mirror, rubbing at her wet hair with a towel. 
KIRSTY No bad dreams. 
KYLE So you slept O.K.? 
KIRSTY gestures at the sofa. 
KIRSTY As much as that bed of nails allowed. 
KYLE glances meaningfully at the bed as he replies. 
KYLE Well, the sofa isn't often used for sleeping on... 
KIRSTY Oh yeah? On your own a lot, Huh? 
KYLE grins. 
KYLE Like the robe? 
KIRSTY returns the smile via the mirror. 
KYLE crosses the room to sit at his dining table. Empty coffee cups, the remnants of a loaf and some cheese suggests their breakfast was simple and finished some time ago. 
KIRSTY gathers her clothes from by the sofa and moves back into the bathroom to dress. 
KYLE waits a few moments and then speaks. 
KYLE I think I need to talk. About what I saw. 
KIRSTY emerges, fully dressed, her hair still damp. 
KIRSTY You thought I was crazy, didn't you? 
KYLE spreads his hands wide. 
KYLE Jesus, yes! What do you expect. I mean, God, I still do! It's just that now I'm crazy too. 
He grins wryly. KIRSTY moves to the sofa and sits down. 
KIRSTY And you're sure it was a woman? 
KYLE God, I wish I could say no. This is going to do terrible things to my attitude, you know. 
CLOSE UP as JULIA (still bandaged) and MALAHIDE come together for a kiss. They part and, as JULIA moves across the room, the camera begins a long TRACK around the room. 
First, it reaches a naked GIRL. As catatonic as TIFFANY, she says nothing but her eyes betray her terror. Her hands are tied above her. 
JULIA moves in towards the girl, her eyes glittering with an alien hunger beneath their gauze mask. As she nears the girl, the TRACK passes them and moves through the room. 
MALAHIDE has done his mistress proud. It had been an empty upstairs room (no furniture, bare floorboards) but now it resembles a nightmarish cross between a butcher's shop and a bordello. 
The camera slowly reveals, as it TRACKS, that there are seven more people in the room. Seven dead people. Dried-out husks. 
The TRACKING is now completing its circle around the room. After the corpses, we return to JULIA and the GIRL - but the GIRL too is now a hollow, dried-out shell. 
JULIA moves back into the centre of the room and stands still. 
MALAHIDE crosses the room to her quickly, drawing a wicked- looking kitchen knife from his pocket as he does so. He reaches JULIA and raises the knife to her face. 
With one swift, precise movement, he slices the bandages across the side of her face. JULIA raises her hand and pulls the mask away. 
The camera sweeps in toward her as she does this until her face is in CLOSE UP as the bandage-mask is pulled aside. 
Her face is perfect. 
63   EXT.   MALAHIDE'S HOUSE   DAY 
MALAHIDE emerges from his front door. He is still in his black suit and looks every inch the respectable professional. He looks neither left nor right but moves straight off, a busy man with things to do. 
A few seconds after he has gone off-camera, KYLE and KIRSTY emerge from around the corner of the house. 
KYLE gestures to KIRSTY to follow him and leads her around to the window he broke in through on the previous night. 
64   INT. OBSESSION ROOM   DAY 
The room is much as we saw it last. 
The window slides up and KYLE pulls himself into the room. He looks around it carefully. Sure that the monster he saw the previous night is no longer in the room, he helps KIRSTY in through the window. 
KIRSTY's eyes go at once to the three LAMENT CONFIGURATIONS in the glass cases. She crosses the room eagerly. 
KYLE rushes after her and stops her opening one of the cases. 
KYLE Wait! The .. thing ... I want to be sure it's not here. 
KIRSTY nods and KYLE leaves the room. 
65   INT.   STAIRS/LANDING MALAHIDE'S HOUSE   DAY 
KYLE advances carefully, and slowly, from the stairs onto the landing. He looks about him at every step he takes. 
Ahead of him on the landing is a door, which is very slightly ajar. 
He advances gingerly down the landing to the door. 
When he reaches it, he pauses. We see his face working as he ponders his choices -should he push it open inch by slow inch, or slam it inwards quickly? 
Very slowly he moves his hand towards the door. The camera matches his movement, moving in on his hand, the door, and the space between. 
His fingertips are less than an inch from touching the door when another hand shoots into view and grabs his wrist. 
JULIA has crept up beside him on the landing while all his attention was on the door. 
KYLE swings round in horror, his mouth opening to scream when he sees that JULIA has her other hand to her mouth, her finger at her lips in a silencing gesture. 
There is of course, nothing for him to recognize from the monstrous vision of the previous night. JULIA's arms, chest, and face are completely re-skinned now. All KYLE sees is a beautiful stranger in a white dress. 
JULIA Sssh. I think it's still here. 
KYLE What? The...The thing? 
JULIA nods. 
JULIA Yes. I had to stop you going in there because I knew you'd cry out. Any normal person would. It ...It's just TERRIBLE. 
KIRSTY (to herself) Kyle...? 
She folds up the photograph and puts it in her pocket. 
She crosses to the door and opens it. She does not go through it immediately but stands in the doorway for a moment, her hand still on the door, cocking her head slightly as if listening. 
KIRSTY (slightly louder) Kyle? 
She can't hear anything, but she regards that as a bad sign, not a good one. She leaves the room. 
68   INT.   STAIRS/LANDING   DAY 
KIRSTY makes her way up the stairs. Unlike KYLE a little earlier she moves up them quite quickly and advances onto the landing. 
When she is on the landing and looking at the closed door to JULIA's Boudoir she stops, standing still and staring at the door. 
KIRSTY suppresses a shudder. She bites her lip, takes two or three deep breaths, crosses to the door firmly, and flings it open, moving into the room even as she does so. 
69   INT.  THE BLOOD-BOUDOIR   DAY 
KIRSTY moves three or four steps into the room and then stops dead. The door swings shut behind her. 
KIRSTY's eyes flick left and right, taking in the sickening details of the room's contents, and then stare straight ahead, focusing on the figure in white which is turning around to face her. 
JULIA completes her turn and looks at KIRSTY completely impassively for a moment. Then her mouth opens up into a smile of welcome - but there is nothing but hate in her eyes. 
JULIA Kirsty! How nice of you to drop in. 
JULIA glances meaningfully at the dead thing that lies beside her feet and then back at KIRSTY. 
JULIA You have surprisingly good taste in men. 
KIRSTY's fear and disgust are momentarily displaced by a furious rage as she realises what JULIA has done. Her face erupts into anger and she screams out. 
KIRSTY Kyle! No! I'll kill you, you... 
She flings herself across the room at JULIA even as she speaks. 
JULIA is completely unphased by this attack and simply raises one arm. She siezes the wrist of the arm that KIRSTY has raised into a clenched fist and effortlessly throws KIRSTY bodily back across the room. We realise for the first time the immense physical strength that JULIA now possesses. 
KIRSTY smashes into the door and falls to a sitting position against it. She is shaken and slightly hurt enough not to get to her feet immediately but she stares at JULIA with undimmed hatred. 
JULIA throws a look halfway between a smile and a sneer. 
JULIA Oh, you can try it, you little bitch. I'd love you to try it. But I'm not just the woman I was. 
KIRSTY What, you mean you're something more than a whore with a vicious streak? 
JULIA I mean I'm something more than human, you little shit! 
JULIA snaps this first line but then holds her anger in check. She shakes her head and an amused smile plays across her lips. 
JULIA Oh, Kirsty. They didn't tell you, did they? I'm afraid they've changed the rules of the fairy tale; I'm no longer just the wicked step-mother. 
The smile disappears and she delivers the next line with an utterly straight face. It is, after all, the truth. 
JULIA Now I'm the Evil Queen. 
The hatred and the heat returns to her voice. 
JULIA So come on; Take your best shot, Snow White. 
KIRSTY scrambles to her feet and again charges at JULIA. 
JULIA steps forward to meet her advance and delivers a single back-handed swipe across KIRSTY's face with such force that not only is the girl knocked off her feet but is actually knocked unconscious. 
KIRSTY rolls onto her back and lies at JULIA's feet. 
JULIA stares down at the unconscious body. When it was awake, it was KIRSTY and her attitude to it was based on personal enmity. Now, it is simply another body and she judges it differently; it is firm, full, healthy, and young. We see the expression on her face change from hatred and triumph to pure appetite. She licks her lips and her eyes glisten. She begins to bend slightly towards it. 
MALAHIDE (off-camera) Julia! 
JULIA It certainly is. 
MALAHIDE turns away to meet her eyes. 
There is a beat or two where absolutely nothing happens. 
The mirror explodes inwards into the alcove. 
76   INT.   OBSESSION ROOM   DAY 
The room is filled with smoke and suffused with blue light. 
Two of the walls simply part physically, revealing entrances into the corridors of Hell. These corridors are lined with gray walls and seem to run for a great distance. 
TIFFANY still sits cross-legged in the middle of the floor, staring about her in astonishment. 
Surrounding her, in various parts of the room, are the four CENOBITES from HELLRAISER. 
The FEMALE CENOBITE smiles and advances towards TIFFANY. 
The leader of the CENOBITES, PINHEAD raises a hand. 
PINHEAD Wait. 
The FEMALE stops and looks questioningly at PINHEAD. 
PINHEAD, at a more leisurely pace, crosses towards TIFFANY and looks down at her. She stares back at him, the remnants of her insanity a temporary defense against fear, her face registering nothing. 
PINHEAD looks up. 
PINHEAD No. 
The FEMALE looks across at him. 
CENOBITE No? 
PINHEAD shakes his head. 
PINHEAD No. 
He glances down at TIFFANY again. 
PINHEAD It is not HANDS that call us... 
He looks up and stares directly at the shattered two-way mirror. 
PINHEAD ... It is DESIRE. 
77   INT.   OBSESSION ROOM   ALCOVE   DAY 
The wall opposite the shattered mirror has also opened up to reveal a way into Hell. 
MALAHIDE and JULIA are no longer in the alcove. 
We hear the ringing of their footsteps. They are making their way down the corridor. 
78   INT.   OBSESSION ROOM   DAY 
The four CENOBITES have gone. 
TIFFANY looks around the room again. She stares from one entrance to the other. Her manner is reminiscent of when she is making decisions during her solving of puzzles. 
79   INT.   BLOOD-BOUDOIR   DAY 
KIRSTY is still on the floor in the boudoir of blood. This room too is now suffused with blue light and smoke. There are no gateways to Hell in the walls but there are several cracks in the plaster and these appear to be spreading. 
KIRSTY moans and opens her eyes gingerly. She puts a hand to her face, rubbing at the place where JULIA hit her. 
Still a little groggy, she lifts herself slowly to a sitting position, her legs stretched out. Only when she has blinked a few times, shaken her head, and rubbed her jaw again, does full consciousness return - at which point she looks quickly about the room ( possibly expecting another attack from JULIA) and notices the light and the smoke. 
She has been in this atmosphere before. She knows precisely what it means. Her mouth opens and her eyes grow nervous again. 
PINHEAD puts out his hand in an expansive gesture. 
PINHEAD But, please; feel free. Explore. We'll always be here... 
85   INT.   CORRIDOR 
KIRSTY can't quite believe this but she has no intention of questioning it. She runs into the corridor and away, with PINHEAD's last words echoing after her. 
PINHEAD ... we have Eternity to know your flesh! 
Delighted CENOBITE laughter follows her back into the labyrinth. 
KIRSTY drops the transformed BOX into her pocket as she begins running through the corridors again. The labyrinth seems tighter now - the corridors shorter, the turns sharper. Corner after corner we see KIRSTY turn. 
Accompanying this tightening, the light in the corridors becomes gradually murkier - not quite dark, more like the oppressive colourlessness that descends before a thunderstorm breaks. 
Occasionally there are little hissing noises from the walls themselves, which are accompanied by small jets of dull and heavy smoke escaping between the bricks. 
Over all this, there grows in volume on the soundtrack a rhythmic, labored, resonant sound - a sound somewhere between breathing and machinery. 
Suddenly, as KIRSTY turns one more corner, a hand reaches out to touch her. 
KIRSTY throws herself back against the far wall of the corridor, unsure whether to fight or flee. Then her face relaxes. It is TIFFANY. 
86   INT.   CORRIDORS/LABYRINTH 
In another corridor within the labyrinth, MALAHIDE and JULIA are walking. 
They too have found their way into the inner sections. They too are in tighter, sharper corridors where the light is distressing. They too hear the machine-like breathing noise. And what is revealed behind the portals in the corridor walls is less ambiguous in its unpleasantness; in one we see CHATTERER in some Hell's equivalent of a beauty salon. He is being re-made. This involves the scar tissue being manually peeled from the upper part of his face to reveal beneath small, vicious, human eyes. 
MALAHIDE's attitude has begun to change, as well. His nervousness now clearly outweighs his delight. He' rushes on to the next portal. 
If the last room was a beauty salon, this is the orgy room. But the orgy is very strange. It is a very dark room, filled with a faint layer of smoke. In the background, a bound man is having his chest licked by a kneeling woman. She pulls her face back for a moment. Her tongue is horrifically long and studded with short, sharp blades. The man's chest is stripped of skin where she has been attending him. His face is a picture of ecstasy. 
In the foreground, three people are buried up to their waists in the floor. They are naked. The one in the middle is a woman, the other two, men. The one in front of her faces her, the one behind has his back to her back. They are all very, close. The men have various hooks in their chests, connected by chains to the unseen walls and their faces are impassive. The woman is unwounded and her head flicks back and forth, as if in the grip of a sexual climax of stunning ferocity. The movements of her head keep the details of her features blurred until, finally, it turns to give MALAHIDE a three-quarter profile and holds its position, its mouth open, its eyes half-closed in pleasure. It is JULIA's face. 
MALAHIDE gasps and pulls back from the portal. The camera TRACKS back to reveal that JULIA is still in the corridor, just a few yards in front of him 
JULIA Come. I have such sights to show you. 
MALAHIDE shakes his head crazily from side to side and begins to back away. 
JULIA looks at him and walks toward him slowly. She smiles. She strokes his cheek. She moves closer, gently slipping her arms around him and molding her body to his. She extends her tongue and licks lightly at his lower lip. He opens his mouth and returns the kiss, pressing her body more firmly to him. The kiss becomes quite passionate. 
87   INT.   CORRIDORS/LABYRINTH 
KIRSTY and TIFFANY are now walking together. 
KIRSTY is talking to her as calmly as her sense of urgency will allow. 
KIRSTY Do you see? You were RIGHT. This IS a puzzle, too. But WE'RE CAUGHT in the puzzle. 
KIRSTY stops walking and catches hold of TIFFANY's arm. TIFFANY stops, looks at the hand holding her arm, and then looks into KIRSTY's eyes. 
KIRSTY Yeah? 
TIFFANY smiles directly at KIRSTY and then returns her nod. 
KIRSTY Yeah? 
TIFFANY nods again, more emphatically. 
KIRSTY Yeah! 
KIRSTY throws her arms around TIFFANY and hugs her. 
88   INT.   CORRIDORS/LABYRINTH 
JULIA is leading MALAHIDE down a corridor which has intersections every few yards on both of its sides. 
JULIA walks past these shadowed entrances without pause, without a single sidelong glance. She is clearly confident, clearly back on her own turf. 
KIRSTY hurriedly, throws the blanket back over it. 
A voice issues into the room. It sounds like LARRY but, as we shall see, it is not. 
VOICE No. Over here. Behind the screen. 
KIRSTY walks carefully around the screen, giving it a wide berth in case of a trick. 
There is a figure standing against the wall behind the screen. It is deeply shadowed by the screen itself but is clearly male. 
KIRSTY gulps back a sob and her eyes fill with tears. 
KIRSTY Daddy... ? 
The figure leans slowly into the light, speaking as he does so. 
FRANK That's it, baby. Come to Daddy. 
KIRSTY stands still. There is a second where her face registers nothing. Then she screams. 
KIRSTY NO! 
it is her UNCLE FRANK, back in his skin and dressed in white shirt and jeans. 
FRANK chuckles. KIRSTY backs away from him into the room. FRANK puts out his right hand in a placatory gesture. KIRSTY realises he is not moving after her. She also sees that his body is curiously angled, the left side still in the deep shadow cast by the screen. Is there something else there? Something she can't quite see? FRANK's voice stops her wondering. 
FRANK What's the matter, Kirsty? It's only Frank. It's only Uncle Frank. 
KIRSTY's anger at being tricked wins over her fear and distress and she shouts at FRANK in fury. 
KIRSTY I should have known! I should've known he wouldn't be here! This place is only for filth like you! 
FRANK sneers. 
FRANK Oh, right. Daddy's died and gone to heaven, eh? 
KIRSTY Yes! 
FRANK Shit. Bull. Shit 
FRANK pauses and smiles. Then he begins to move more fully into the room, shifting his weight as he does so and dragging what was hidden into the light. KIRSTY screams again. 
FRANK's white shirt is cut off at the left shoulder. His arm is bare and, from the elbow down to the wrist, joined to another forearm. The flesh is completely fused, like that of siamese twins. As FRANK moves into the room, the owner of the other arm is revealed. It is his brother, LARRY. KIRSTY's father. 
LARRY, like his brother, is dressed in a white shirt (cut off at one shoulder) and jeans and, like his brother, has his skin back. His face is frozen into a permanent expression of terror and he seems incapable of any independent movement, simply being pulled along by FRANK. 
KIRSTY steps back in horror. 
FRANK See? He's here. You should learn to believe your Uncle Frank. 
KIRSTY No! He SHOULDN'T be here! It SHOULD'VE been a trick! 
FRANK 'Fraid not, baby. He belongs here. With me. We're the same. Brothers. Equal and opposite. Pure appetite. Pure banality. Too much feeling. None at all. 
KIRSTY's fear of FRANK is now outweighed by her contempt for his argument. 
KIRSTY You're full of shit, Frank Cotton. My Dad wasn't like that at all. He could feel. He could love. He loved ME. 
KIRSTY's voice breaks. 
KIRSTY He...he loved me. 
FRANK Don't waste your tears. Look at him! 
Her hatred for FRANK gives KIRSTY her strength back. 
KIRSTY He loved me, you bastard! He Loved me, he loved my mother. He even loved that bitch you betrayed him with! 
FRANK begins to move towards KIRSTY again, LARRY dragging behind him. 
FRANK Ah, Julia. She hasn't been to see me recently. That's why it's so nice to have you here, baby. Daddy's little girl. So pretty when she's upset. Come to Daddy, 
JULIA watches with avid interest. 
92   INT.   BROTHERS' ROOM 
LARRY and FRANK are fighting furiously, tumbling around the room. LARRY is fuelled by righteous anger and revenge but FRANK has had more experience of dirty fighting. 
At one stage their free hands each have hold of the other man by the throat and are rolling along one of the walls, each trying to establish the dominant grip. 
They smash violently against one of the walls in the room. It gives and they fall through into the next room. 
93   INT.   KNIFE ROOM 
This is a small square room. With the exception of the doorway to the BROTHERS ROOM, every inch of the walls is covered with sharp and deadly-looking double-bladed knives -ie One blade is buried in the wall up to a central hilt/handle and the other blade juts out menacingly into the room. 
The two brothers tumble into the room. Their grips loosened by their fall through the wall, they land on the floor and rise to their feet, staring at each other but taking in the vicious nature of the room as well. 
FRANK How convenient. 
KIRSTY comes through and gasps as she sees the walls. 
LARRY Stay there, baby. Don't come in. 
FRANK Yes. Stay there. I'll be with you in a minute. 
LARRY and FRANK trade blows. 
FRANK lands a powerful blow to LARRY's jaw. It straightens LARRY up and FRANK slams the flat of his hand against his brother's chest. 
LARRY flies backwards. He flings out his arm to balance himself but he is nearer to the wall than he thinks and the impetus of his fall drives his arm onto the knives. 
LARRY cries out. FRANK grins and prepares to force his wounded brother completely onto the knives. 
Suddenly KIRSTY flies across the room at FRANK and beats at his back with her fists. 
FRANK snarls and, without turning around completely, flings her away from him. KIRSTY goes flying but lands just safely short of the deadly walls. 
LARRY, in the pause KIRSTY gave him and galvanized by her example, has found more strength. He pulls his arm painfully forward, clear of the knives, and throws himself to the side, forcing FRANK onto the knives. With a vicious push, LARRY impales his brother completely. 
FRANK howls, loud and long. 
Without pausing, LARRY pulls a knife free from the wall and, with one vicious slice, separates himself from his brother. 
LARRY rushes to KIRSTY and helps her to her feet. They embrace. 
There is a cry of horror off-camera. We pull out. TIFFANY has followed her friend. She stares in shock at LARRY's wounded arm and at the impaled FRANK. 
94   INT.   THE CENTRE OF HELL 
JULIA is being given more glimpses of the transforming MALAHIDE. 
The major surgery seems to be complete. There are no spinning blades of needles in sight as the gashes open. MALAHIDE's head is completely bald and his face, like the rest of his skin is blue. The only new sophistications are that his upper and lower eyelids have been stretched wide and stapled to his face and forehead, and that a new mouth has been sliced into what was his cheek before his features were pulled permanently to one side. 
Over the sound of LEVIATHAN's breath and the CENOBITE machinery still at work on MALAHIDE, FRANK's howl is heard. 
JULIA's head turns to the direction of this new sound. 
JULIA Frank... 
She turns away without a backward glance and moves back into the corridors. 
95   INT.   THE KNIFE ROOM 
FRANK is still impaled on the knives,  but his anguished howl has Become  small whimpers of complaint (with, given his history with the  CENOBITES,  perhaps  the tiniest note of pleasure in  there, too) 
KIRSTY,  LARRY and TIFFANY are now gathered together to one side of the room near the door that leads to the corridor. They should leave, but a kind of sick fascination keeps them watching FRANK. 
FRANK realises only leverage will pull him free of the knives and lifts his forearms up as much as they are free to. 
He turns his palms to face the knives and, with a growl of self- encouragement, drives them deeply onto the knives so that he can begin to push the rest of his impaled body backwards. 
It takes several seconds and much pain for him to succeed, but succeed he does. He flops backwards into the room. 
They reach the end of the corridor.  It terminates in a T- junction. 
TIFFANY automatically heads in one direction.  KIRSTY makes to follow, but LARRY hesitates. 
LARRY Wait a minute.  Why are we following her? Who is this? 
KIRSTY This is Tiffany 
KIRSTY shrugs. 
KIRSTY ... She's good at puzzles. 
LARRY Fine. 
They take the turn TIFFANY has indicated. 
97   INT  THE KNIFE ROOM 
JULIA still holds FRANK tight. 
Slowly, she raises the hand which holds his heart until it is in front of his face.  FRANK's eyes are glassing over but he can still see. 
JULIA Nothing personal, babe. 
Without ceremony, she bursts the heart with one quick squeeze. 
100    INT  THE CENTRE OF HELL 
LARRY, KIRSTY and TIFFANY come running toward the camera. Initially oblivious to the fact that the corridor they were running along has widened and the walls retreated.  Suddenly, they come to a stunned halt together, staring ahead of them with awestruck faces. 
KIRSTY Oh. My. God. 
The camera moves around them to take in what they see.  They are of course in the central chamber of LEVIATHAN. 
LEVIATHAN is spinning again, the black beams flying around the chamber. 
TIFFANY screams. KIRSTY grabs her. 
KIRSTY Tiffany, listen.  You've solved it. But we've got to solve it the OTHER way.  See?  See? We've got to get out. 
TIFFANY is frozen. 
LARRY Come on! 
LEVIATHAN spins, the beams fly. 
KIRSTY Please!  Tiffany, Please! Get us out!  Take us home, please! 
TIFFANY nods. They are just about to leave when LEVIATHAN stops spinning. 
A large beam flies down , carrying an object which lands on the catwalk before the HUMANS, who all take a step or two backwards. The beam withdraws. The object at first resembles a large and bloody plastic bag, but then internal movement begins to rip at this covering.  Hands appear out of the rips and complete the removal.  We realise that the bag-like thing was a kind of caul, a membranous after-birth that some creatures produce their young in. 
The thing inside completes its escape and stands clear of the shredded caul.  Like a new-born child, it is stained and soiled with amiotic fluids and blood.  But it is not a new born child. 
It is a NEW CENOBITE.  And it used to be MALAHIDE.  The transformation we caught glimpses of is now complete.  Its skin is entirely blue, its head entirely bald.  The decorative wounds and tortures we saw being applied are all present;  its flesh is peeled back in various places, its features are threaded and distorted by, wire, its eyelids are stapled open. 
For a second it stands and regards the HUMANS before it. 
TIFFANY gasps in recognition. 
KIRSTY too knows what it was. 
KIRSTY Malahide ... 
For some reason, KIRSTY draws from her pocket the photo she took from the OBSESSION ROOM. She stares at it. 
KIRSTY Jesus Christ!  Of course ... 
The MALAHIDE CENOBITE stretches its arms and flexes its fingers. 
MALAHIDE And to think I hesitated ... 
In her left hand she still holds the BOX, but her right hand is only a few inches from TIFFANY's left. 
TIFFANY reaches her hand to her, not knowing JULIA as the others do. Their fingers just manage to interlock when JULIA's face registers a disbelieving shock. 
There is a terrible ripping sound. JULIA's new skin, so recently gained, is giving up its hold and has ripped right up the spine. JULIA is drawn from it. 
JULIA NOOOOOOOOOO! 
With a final, slurping sound, the skinned woman slips from the skin and disappears down the new corridor. 
The momentary break in tension allows LARRY to make one last effort. He rounds the corner and pulls the girls after him. TIFFANY, finally, realising what has happened, screams in terror and disgust, especially when she looks at what she has brought round the corner in her hand. She drops JULIA's skin to the floor as the three of them scramble to their feet and begin to run again. 
Still clutched in the skin's hollow fingers is the white diamond BOX. 
As they turn another corner, they see, very far in the distance, a glimmer of light. TIFFANY points excitedly. 
KIRSTY My God, it's her room! 
LARRY Let's go! 
He starts urging the girls down the corridor - a long and very narrow one - but KIRSTY shows some resistance. 
KIRSTY No. No, there's something wrong... 
Before they can discuss it, a new rushing sound is heard. They look back. 
Hurtling towards them is the ENGINEER from HELLRAISER. 
TIFFANY screams. 
LARRY Jesus. O.K. No more arguments. Just RUN! 
They begin one last panic-fuelled run down the narrow corridor, the ENGINEER at their heels. 
The sequence is equivalent to KIRSTY's pursuit by the ENGINEER in HELLRAISER, the twist here being that as they approach the entrance into TIFFANY's room the walls of the corridor, already thin, begin to close together. 
LARRY is bringing up the rear (the corridor is now so narrow only single file is possible) and he can almost feel the ENGINEER'S breath on his neck. 
LARRY Go. Go. Go. Go. Go!! 
Finally, almost impossibly, they reach the gap in the wall. TIFFANY tumbles through, then KIRSTY, and finally LARRY. Less than a micro-second after LARRY has made it, the walls seal themselves. 
104   INT.   TIFFANY'S ROOM    (2nd VERSION)   DAY 
As we see clearly the room they have come into, we perhaps share the feeling that KIRSTY expressed in the corridor; Something Is Wrong. 
The tiles that make up the floor are patterned as before but the individual tiles are larger. The room itself seems more spacious, the ceiling higher. 
There is a bowl of flowers by the window. The flowers were in full bloom before their trip to Hell but now they seem long dead. 
The audience have to notice most of this for themselves because LARRY, KIRSTY, and TIFFANY are too relieved by, and tired from, their escape to take this in immediately. LARRY seats himself in the chair, KIRSTY perches on the end of TIFFANY's bed. TIFFANY however walks straight across to her window. She is the first to notice anything. She stares at the flowers. 
KIRSTY Tiffany ... ? 
KIRSTY rises from the bed and joins TIFFANY by the window. 
KIRSTY But these were ... Daddy? 
LARRY rises to his feet. Just as he stands, a fleeting expression of bewilderment crosses his face. He strokes at his right arm with an unconscious gesture as he crosses the room. 
KIRSTY doesn't look at her father right away. 
KIRSTY These flowers. I saw them just... 
She looks at her father. A sea of sweat has broken out on his brow and face as he stares intensely at the flowers. KIRSTY's voice slows, begins to trail off. 
KIRSTY ...the day ...before... yesterday Daddy? Daddy! 
LARRY's eyes close. His entire face screws up as if an excruciating pain just hit him. He clamps his arm across his chest, the hands clutching his shoulders. He opens his eyes and looks at KIRSTY for a second, his expression one of surprise. Then his eyes roll up into the sockets and he collapses to the floor. 
TIFFANY has hardly had time to turn from the bowl of flowers before KIRSTY is kneeling by her father. 
TIFFANY screams. 
The 1st GOWNED FIGURE pulls the mask and cap away from its face - It is PINHEAD. His colleague does the same. It is the FEMALE CENOBITE. 
KIRSTY Oh, Fuck. 
She's had too much experience with these two to hesitate. She grabs TIFFANY's arm and bursts through the double doors to the corridor. 
108   INT.   BASEMENT CORRIDOR   DAY 
We are now looking along the corridor in the other direction - back towards the elevator. 
KIRSTY and TIFFANY come into shot, running rapidly along the corridor. 
As they make their way, a rumbling, flatulent sound is heard from the overhead pipes and they all begin to drip blood not water. 
We hear the sound of the doors flying open behind them. 
KIRSTY and TIFFANY reach the elevator. KIRSTY presses frantically on the call button, while TIFFANY looks behind them with frightened eyes. 
KIRSTY C'mon. C'MON! 
The sound of steadily-pacing, purposeful feet is heard coming up the corridor, getting louder, coming closer. 
KIRSTY begins hammering on the closed elevator doors. TIFFANY stifles a cry with her hand. 
KIRSTY COME ON!! 
Suddenly, the doors fly open. KIRSTY and TIFFANY tumble into the elevator. 
109   INT.   BASEMENT CORRIDOR   DAY   (GIRLS' P.O.V.) 
We see the door-frame of the elevator and the floor buttons beside it and, looking down the corridor through the open elevator doors, PINHEAD and the FEMALE CENOBITE marching towards us. 
We also see KIRSTY'S finger jabbing frantically at the floor buttons. The doors are not closing. The CENOBITES are getting very close. 
Finally, just as PINHEAD breaks from his determined but medium- paced stride and speeds up eagerly for the last two or three yards, extending his arm as he does so, the door slams shut across our vision and we hear the elevator machinery start up. 
110    INT.   ELEVATOR   DAY 
KIRSTY leans against the back wall of the elevator, breathing heavily. TIFFANY stands very still in the middle, a frozen expression of fear on her face. 
KIRSTY Faster, you bastard, faster! 
She slams her fist against the elevator wall. The elevator stops. Its lights flicker. 
KIRSTY Oh, Jesus. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't mean it. 
The elevator starts again. 
KIRSTY It's 0.K. They can't beat an elevator. Not upstairs. It'll be O.K. 
The lift stops, but this time it's where they want it. KIRSTY's finger hesitates over the DOOR OPEN button. 
KIRSTY It'll be O.K. 
She presses the button. 
111   INT.   HOSPITAL CORRIDOR   DAY   (GIRLS P.O.V.) 
We are looking at the closed elevator door.  When it opens we will be looking down the corridor on the main hospital floor - the floor with the girls' rooms on. 
The door flies open. CHATTERER II lunges in at them. 
KIRSTY screams, but because of the eagerness of his lunge they are able to get around him as his impetus carries him to the back of the elevator. 
112   INT.  HOSPITAL CORRIDOR      DAY 
The door begins to close as the girls straighten up in the corridor and as CHATTERER II turns around to come back out at them. 
He tries to put his hand out to stop the door closing, but succeeds only in trapping his fingers in the door. 
PINHEAD No more deals, Kirsty. It's your flesh we want to experience, not your skill at bargaining. 
KIRSTY No deals! Just information. Information. Free of charge. No strings. Just information. 
PINHEAD Go on. But trick us again, child, and your suffering will be legendary even in Hell. 
Carefully, making no fast movements, KIRSTY reaches into her pocket where she placed the photograph from MALAHIDE's OBSESSION ROOM. She brings out the picture that she realized earlier was of PINHEAD and hands it to him. 
He takes hold of it and looks, his face registering nothing. 
PINHEAD What is this? Someone else you think escaped us, like Frank? 
KIRSTY No, No, this one didn't escape. You told me you'd always been in Hell. You were wrong. Look at it. LOOK. IT'S YOU. 
PINHEAD Nonsense, I... 
KIRSTY It's you! You HAVEN'T always been as you are. You were HUMAN. Remember. Remember all your confusions. Think! 
The FEMALE CENOBITE strides across the room. 
FEMALE CENOBITE Enough! 
She raises her hand towards KIRSTY. PINHEAD's arm flies out and stops her. 
PINHEAD Wait! 
He is staring at the photograph, that great immobile brow finally puckering, as if something is stirring. 
PINHEAD I...remember. 
KIRSTY You were ALL human! 
The other three CENOBITES stop moving and stare at KIRSTY. Any advances they were making on KIRSTY or TIFFANY stop as the same dim, distant, recollection begins to stir within them. 
Suddenly, the door bursts open. MALAHIDE is there, still floating, his voice still a mixture of hideous threat and insane joy. 
MALAHIDE Tiffany. Come. 
He turns his palms downwards, mirroring his gesture in the hall of mirrors. 
TIFFANY lets out a moan of terror and shakes her head. 
One of the snake-like limbs from MALAHIDE's palms flies towards TIFFANY's face. Before anybody can react, its scalpel tip has sliced an inch or so off several strands of her hair. 
MALAHIDE Tiffany. Come. 
KIRSTY throws her arms around the cowering TIFFANY and snarls at her tormentor. 
KIRSTY Leave her alone, you asshole! 
MALAHIDE makes no reply, but suddenly several more limbs fly towards the GIRLS and begin to weave in front of KIRSTY's face like snakes awaiting their moment. 
At this stage, the camera CUTS TO the watching PINHEAD. He lets the photograph of his past life flutter to the floor. 
MALAHIDE looks up at the tiny noise this makes and his eyes meet PINHEAD'S. He turns more fully to face PINHEAD and the other CENOBITES who are now standing with their leader, and a strange smile crosses his face 
MALAHIDE Oh,good. A fight. 
Suddenly, the air is full of flying chains. MALAHIDE is hooked everywhere. It is like a high-speed version of FRANK's final re- capture in HELLRAISER. The chains start tugging almost instantly. 
Is MALAHIDE about to be ripped apart? 
With contemptuous, dismissive speed, the limbs that ooze from MALAHIDE's palms have sliced the chains to pieces and, almost before we have time to realise that, three of them have lengthened, thickened, and hardened and have skewered the FEMALE CENOBITE, CHATTERER II, and BUTTERBALL to the walls. 
The three limbs detatch themselves from MALAHIDE. The three CENOBITES are all well above the floor, pinned and twitching like the rats in FRANK's attic. 
As they die, they suddenly revert; there are three human corpses on the walls of the room. A woman, a fat man, and a little boy. 
MALAHIDE smiles. Be looks at PINHEAD again and advances. Suddenly a heavy torture pillar smashes into him, knocking him slightly off-balance. 
PINHEAD is backing across the room, weaving pillars in front of him as he moves. MALAHIDE moves forward, knocking them out of the way. As each pillar is knocked aside, PINHEAD's face is more and more human. Finally, when the face we see is nearly that of the ENGLISH OFFICER from the opening, he turns his head slightly away from the advancing MALAHIDE and finds KIRSTY's eyes. A look passes between them. Understanding? Gratitude? Friendship? 
KIRSTY grabs TIFFANY and, dragging her to her feet, pulls her further back down the catwalk as MALAHIDE floats to a landing between them and the BOX. 
MALAHIDE Ah, girls. And how are we feeling today? 
The blades on the end of his limbs twitch eagerly. 
MALAHIDE You have your whole lives behind you now. 
The limbs fly forward. KIRSTY screams and both girls run up the catwalk. 
About halfway back up, however, TIFFANY stops, turns around, and begins to walk back. KIRSTY calls out. 
KIRSTY Tiffany! No! 
The camera stays with TIFFANY as she makes her way back. KIRSTY's voice stays on the soundtrack for a time, imploring her friend to turn back and then simply stops. This should be abrupt enough to make the audience notice but smooth enough to avoid their attention leaving TIFFANY. 
MALAHIDE waits, happy to see a patient so keen on the knife. 
Very slowly, TIFFANY moves forward, inch by slow inch. This is something she HAS to do; the expression on her face is not determination but terror. And MALAHIDE is very happy to encourage this. 
MALAHIDE Surgery is open, Tiffany. What was today's agenda? 
His scalpels flick in the air, making small slicing motions. 
MALAHIDE Ah, yes. Evisceration. 
Still TIFFANY comes forward, closer and closer until she is surely close enough to be grabbed. 
Suddenly, she is grabbed. But from behind, and by a human hand. TIFFANY gasps, and turns to see who has seized her. She screams. It is JULIA. 
The limbs retract into MALAHIDE's palms. He smiles. 
JULIA Doctor. I've missed you. 
JULIA, having presumably just replaced her skin, is not quite as perfect as before; there are bloody lines like scars beneath her ears and chin as if the skin required some adjustment before being put on. 
JULIA moves forward, her left arm still holding TIFFANY, her smile returning MALAHIDE'S. 
MALAHIDE I knew you'd come back. 
JULIA I'm a girl who keeps her promises. 
JULIA is right next to MALAHIDE now. Smoothly, she releases her grip on TIFFANY and embraces MALAHIDE sensuously. He returns the embrace. They kiss. 
Unseen, TIFFANY moves to the edge of the catwalk and picks up the BOX. Her fingers move over it, finding its solution. Suddenly, LEVIATHAN's breath becomes a roar of anger and fear. 
MALAHIDE breaks away from his kiss, his face a mixture of confusion and rage. JULIA plants both hands in the middle of his chest and pushes. He falls over the lip of the catwalk but, almost before he drops from sight, he is suddenly pulled backwards through the air, screaming, as LEVIATHAN's limb retracts. JULIA jumps back. shouting. 
JULIA Do it, Tiffany! Do it! 
TIFFANY's fingers fly over the BOX and suddenly we see what is happening. The mountain-like LEVIATHAN is following the movements of the small replica in TIFFANY's hands. As TIFFANY inverts the new configuration back towards a closed BOX, LEVIATHAN too is being twisted and turned. Being closed. 
The whole centre of Hell shakes as if suffering a mild earthquake. JULIA and TIFFANY almost lose their footing, but TIFFANY continues working. She is nearly, there. LEVIATHAN is halfway between its white diamond, majesty and a huge closed BOX. 
TIFFANY takes her hands from the BOX. It is done. The larger BOX operates a few seconds behind it's control, so that we can inter- cut the final sliding and creaking into position with the following human drama; 
As LEVIATHAN makes its final closing, the mild tremors of before become larger. Hell shakes violently and this time TIFFANY does lose her footing. She looks set to tumble into the vast abyss to the side of the catwalk but just manages to catch hold of the edge with one hand. The small BOX flies from her hand and hurtles down into the miles of blackness below. TIFFANY dangles over the edge, her feet kicking wildly for a foothold that doesn't exist. 
Suddenly, a hand extends to her. She looks up. It is JULIA. For a second, nothing happens. 
JULIA Trust me. 
TIFFANY lifts one hand off the edge and grabs at JULIA's proffered wrist. 
JULIA begins to pull up and for a moment it seems the crisis is over. Then a terrible and familiar ripping noise is heard: The skin of the arm that TIFFANY clings to begins to rip free at the shoulder. Gradually, like a shirt's threads unraveling, it comes off. TIFFANY's weight pulls it clear like a very long and very tasteless evening glove and it seems she will finally make the long drop. At the final second, as the arm-skin comes off, the entire skin flies from the body and falls with its arm into the abyss. TIFFANY screams. She is going to die. 
But suddenly the two arms that have Just lost their skin fly out again and catch her fingers. TIFFANY is hauled over the edge and staggers to her feet, staring into the-bloodied face of KIRSTY, who had donned JULIA's skin to help her friend. 
The two girls share a quick and joyous embrace and then run rapidly up the catwalk. The camera stays with LEVIATHAN. 
The rumbling stops. And the mountainous BOX creaks into its final, sealed position. 
