HELLRAISER: DEADER 
Screenplay By 
Neal Marshall Stevens 
Revisions By 
Tim Day 
FADE IN: We roll credits over- 
Peal tight on a pattern of brown and black textures. The image begins to shake. Slow motion. Graceful. 
WE HEAR a low rhythmic THUMP, THUMP, THUMP... 
The surface slowly peels off like flecks of dried old paint as we pull back a little wider and realize that we're looking at an OLD DOOR. 
THUMP, THUMP, THUMP... 
The door continues to rattle. Something or someone is behind it, desperately fighting to get out. THUMP, THUMP, THUMP... 
Wider still to include the rusted, worn doorknob twisting back and forth and shaking. Whatever is in there -- it's locked inside. SUPER: HELLRAISER:DEADER 
CROSS DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. CRACK DEN - MORNING 
It's almost pitch black in here as a few beams of light fight W their way through holes in the torn black window shades of this flop-house apartment. TN A HIGH SHOT 
Te take in the scene. A young WOMAN, mid-twenties, lies on an old mattress tossed on the floor in the center of the room. There's a MAN asleep next to her with his arm around her. About a half-dozen others, in various stages of nakedness, are sprawled unconscious around the room. WE BOOM DOWN and as we do we- 
INT. CRACK DEN - NIGHT 
We're in the middle of a crack/X party the night before. 
LASH CUT TO: 
Our YOUNG WOMAN (AMY KLEIN) moving through the party. She reaches into the pocket of her long black coat and lifts out a TAPE RECORDER. She clicks it on and slips it back into her pocket. 
FLASH CUT TO: 
THE MAN from our opening shot offers her some X. She lets him place it on her tongue and then she swallows it. He smiles, pleased, and turns to leave. She quickly but slyly removes the X from her mouth and flicks it away.         F LASH CUT TO: 
Later. The party in full gear. Things are really starting to get weird here as the crack pipe starts to make it's way around the room. 
FLASH CUT TO: 
Amy's putting on a full "X" performance, taking the crack pipe and quickly passing it on, pretending to be too far gone for another hit, all the while studying the other partiers with a keen reporter's eye. 
FLASH CUT TO: 
Later. After everyone has left. The sun is coming up. Amy alone with the MAN. He's half-naked on the mattress, trying to pull Amy close. Amy's looking for a safe exit, but she's stayed too long and he's starting to get a little rough with her. A wrong move now could push him over the edge. 
FLASH CUT TO: 
Amy's vision starts to blur. Did he slip her something? 
FLASH CUT TO: 
KATYA I'm not real... 
The camera moves in closer as Winter takes the gun and slips it into Katya's hand. 
KATYA I'm not... I'm not real... 
he slides the gun over and puts it to the side of her head. 
AMY 
...sits forward in her seat, not quite believing what she's seeing. 
AMY Holy ... Charles... 
CHARLES Just keep watching. 
ON THE TAPE 
Katya is breathing fast now, but we can't be sure if it's terror, or passion, or some combination of both. She continues to lie on the mattress, the barrel of the gun pressed against the side of her head. 
KATYA I'm not real. I'm not... 
Winter reaches out, hesitant, and cocks the gun in her hand. Meanwhile, we see other hands, reaching in, pressing a folded up towel against the opposite side of her head. Other hands come in and press a doubled-over pillow against the towel. 
KATYA I'm not real. I'm not... I'm not... 
She closes her eyes, grits her teeth. Her back arches. 
AMY 
drops her cigarette as it burns down to her fingers. She stands. 
ON THE TAPE 
Katya holds her breath... and pulls the trigger. 
There's a huge CONCUSSION as the bullet tears straight through her head. We can see it splatter out the other side, tearing through the towel and the folded over pillow, which catch a great blast of bone and brain. 
We hear some screams in the room. 
AMY jumps back. 
AMY Have you called the police on this? 
CHARLES Just watch... 
AMY I want to know if you've called the pol... 
CHARLES I said, "Just watch." 
AMY Oh, man, don't tell me that was some special effect... 
CHARLES You tell me. 
AMY This is sick... 
CHARLES That's saying a lot, for you. 
The camera is now pointing at Winter. There is a look of deep tenderness in his face as he circles around and kneels down, staring toward Katya, who is lying, as dead as dead can be, on the mattress. Blood has run from the ghastly wound down both sides of the plastic, and towels on the side of the bed catch the mess. 
Amy hesitates, shaking her head, not sure what it's all about. 
CHARLES Look, Amy. Maybe this is just some kind of bull-shit shot-on-tape gore movie. And since that's all it can be, that's all you're going find, but it sure smells different to me. If it's bull-shit, you'll know pretty fast. If it's not... 
Amy, though, is only half listening, lost in her own thoughts. 
AMY How could she... 
CHARLES Who said miracles can only happen at Lourdes? 
AMY Who said they happen there? 
She lifts her fingers to the side of her head, duplicating the action of Katya slipping her fingers inside the wound. 
HARLES Amy... you know what my father said once... 
AMY That all writers were queers? 
CHARLES No, that was a different time. This time, we were driving down the block and there was this fortune-telling place, you know, this gypsy fortune telling place in a store front? And he said, "You know, if I could tell the future I wouldn't be living in any crappy store front." 
He looks back at the tape. 
CHARLES If I could do that, I wouldn't be hanging out in some rundown basement. I'd own the earth. 
AMY Maybe they're just getting started. 
CHARLES Maybe. 
AMY What else do we have besides the tape? 
CHARLES Just a return address on the envelope. 
He holds up the envelope which is addressed to "AMY KLEIN C/O THE UNDERGROUND". Amy hesitates. Snatches the envelope out of his hand. She reads the return address. 
CHARLES Looks like your online fan-base is growing. It's an address in Bucharest. It's where all the Euro-trash kids looking for a good time are heading these days. Amsterdam is so 90's. 
She's shocked that he would even know. 
AMY Why Charles... 
CHARLES I still like to keep my finger on the pulse, even though I know you think I don't have one. 
She thinks about it. He hands her a thick envelope. 
CHARLES Your ticket, hotel and per diem. 
She smiles. 
AMY You know me too well. 
CHARLES It's what keeps me up at night. (beat) Now here's the part where I'm supposed to say be careful. Be careful. 
AMY Always. 
CHARLES Call me when you get settled. 
She just smirks and exits. 
EXT. EASTERN EUROPE - DAY 
Amy enters. The place is dark and cold. Eerily quiet. The manager stays in the hallway, he looks at Amy and taps his watch. Amy nods as he pulls the door closed. 
She descends down the dark hallway. Her face tightens as she takes in the deathly ripe air. The BUZZING of flies getting louder with each step. 
As she approaches a room, she recoils, clutching her face from the stench. She inhales -- drawing in the smell to acclimate herself -- and almost vomits. She steadies herself, drawing in breaths through her nose, tentative at first, and finally in larger breaths, until she can tolerate it. 
he looks back toward the entry door, she is alone. 
INT. MARLA'S ROOM - DAY 
Amy steps in and stops, struggling to keep herself from retching. 
No sign of anything dead. No sound except the sinister buzzing of flies. Amy steps cautiously in. 
She looks toward one side, sees a closet with a double sliding door. She slides open one side, sees nothing that shouldn't be there -- a ragged winter jacket, a green plastic raincoat, a hangar festooned with scarfs, some other garments still obscured beneath cleaning bag plastic. 
She hesitates, then calmly slides the other side open. More of the same. 
She turns in the other direction. There's a little kitchen. Nothing dead there. She starts forward then turns back -- staring at the refrigerator. She goes quickly over and tugs it open. It's empty. Not so much as a ketchup bottle. Curious, she opens the freezer. The same. Empty. 
She heads through the living room and down a narrow corridor leading to another bedroom. At the end of the hallway is a bathroom. The door to the bathroom is open and the toilet, on the far wall, faces the door. Marla is there. 
Dressed only in bra and panties, she is sitting on the closed lid of the john, leaning forward in what seems, at first, to be an impossible angle. Her hands hang forward, almost touching the floor. Her head is cocked back, staring up. Her skin is gray, swollen. 
Amy takes a few steps forward, for a better look. As she approaches, she sees the reason for the odd position of the body. 
A long boot-lace has been tied around Marla's neck and tied to the wall pipe on the toilet. The flesh of her neck has swollen out, almost burying the boot-lace. She has hanged herself in this ghastly way. 
Amy takes another step forward. As she does, there's a sudden loud buzzing as the flies that crawl on Marla abruptly rise up, alarmed (or whatever it is flies are) at her approach. But they soon return to the corpse, crawling about the face, around the edges of the glazed, eyes, around the margins of the open mouth, rimmed with dry foam -- around the out-thrust tongue. 
Amy covers her mouth with her shirt, trying to filter out the stench. She backs away from the body and into another room. 
IN THE BEDROOM 
Amy starts to search -- fast, thorough, -- she's done this sort of thing before. She finds a journal, opens it... no writing. She tosses it aside. Pulls open a drawer. She tugs out what looks like a blade-less knife handle. She presses a stud. A STILETTO BLADE SPRINGS OUT. She tosses it back in the drawer, tugs some other stuff into view. 
Some bills, some shoelaces, loose change. She goes drawer to drawer, looking for anything that might mean something. Socks, ragged underwear, cheap jewelry, tee shirts and short skirts and jeans. 
Amy stops, surveying the territory. Where to look next? Then, deciding, she goes to the bed. 
She reaches under it, sliding her hand around, tugs out a dust-encrusted skirt. Feels around some more, hesitates, pulls something else out. She brings it out into view. It's a desiccated mouse. She grimaces and tosses it back under the bed in disgust. 
She stops... then slides her hand between the mattress and the box spring. She feels around, then stops, finding something. She pulls out a little red paper folder -- the kind that photographs come from. She opens it. 
It appears to be a photographic record of another "deader" party. We see some of the same participants -- we also see Marla herself in some of the pictures. She's smiling. Amy flips the next photograph. 
It shows Marla next to Winter. He's holding something in his hand. Amy looks closer. THE PUZZLE BOX -- Amy turns another photograph and it shows somebody holding the box out in front of Marla. 
The picture is framed through a length of rope with a noose on one end. Marla is on the other side-- Almost a kind of "joke" photo. 
She has a kind of sickly smile on her face. Amy's eyes narrow. She holds the picture closer. There seems to be a figure lost in shadows, and the closer she looks the more reality merges with the grains of the photo. What is there? A man? 
Amy hears a scratching noise coming from outside the room. She stuffs the book in her satchel. 
Amy turns toward the door that leads to the hall and the unseen bathroom. She sits, silent, waiting. 
Then the sound of the scratching comes again. The sound of flies rising -- and again, more distinct -- something scratching. She keeps her position, still listening. Nothing. Just the slow steady, untroubled buzzing. 
She moves toward the bathroom. 
Amy comes flying down the hall at top speed. She reaches the top of the stairs and starts down... ...and as she does, her feet slip. 
She slides down five or six steps, then over-balances, throwing out her hands to keep her chin from hitting the polished stone steps. She keeps sliding down, finally over- balancing again, flipping over and landing on her back on the landing half-way between the floors. A MY Dammit! 
The Manager looks down the stairs for her. He doesn't even attempt to chase her. 
MANAGER 
Stop her! 
He curses her in his native tongue. 
EXT.   SIDEWALK - DAY 
Amy breaks through the doors of the building. She hits two of the ten stairs down to the sidewalk. People walking by hardly notice. 
Up ahead, a police car is turning down the street. She stops and walks calmly, diverting her eyes. The police car races by, and Amy walks faster, and faster, then runs. 
INT. AMY'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Close on a tray of ice being cracked apart. It's contents poured into a open towel. 
Amy is sitting on the floor in front of her couch, now dressed in only panties and a bra -- an image unpleasantly reminiscent of Marla -- especially with the spotting of bruises and roughly bandaged scrapes on her pale skin. 
She has a dripping ice pack in one hand, which she applies to this bruise and that -- and a bottle of gin in the other. She doesn't look happy. She takes a drink, then looks toward a TV and VCR in front of her. 
There's a tape half-inserted into the VCR. We can see the empty envelope with "AMY" written on it, lying on the floor. 
he tape is within reach of Amy's bare foot, and she lifts a toe toward it, hesitant. She puts her toe against the tape...hanging on the edge of decision. Finally, she shoves it forward with her toe. 
It slides into the machine. She grabs up the remote and turns on the set. The IMAGE appears. 
It's Marla, looking like she hasn't slept in days, sitting on a chair in her apartment staring into camera. Her eyes are glazed, distant. But she looks a hell of lot better than she did in the bathroom. 
MARLA (a little sad) I knew you'd come. Course if you're watching this tape, it's already too late for me. But maybe you can stop it. 
Amy removes the PUZZLE BOX from her satchel. Stares at it. 
MARLA He promised us pleasures beyond anything we could ever imagine. We just had to fight through the pain first. Easier said than done. (beat) Don't open the box Amy. If you do Winter wins, and if he wins- 
Someone pounds on a door. Marla panics. 
MARLA (hurried) Go to Pletkow station at midnight. Go to the south end of the platform and step onto the last car. Find a guy named Joey who runs the show and tell him I sent you. He'll guide you to them. 
The POUNDING GETS LOUDER. 
WINTER (O.S.) Marla! 
MARLA Save them Amy. Please... 
WINTER (O.S.) Marla! 
Marla leaps forward and- 
MARLA Those you trust the most -- trust the least. 
- shuts off the camera. It goes black for a few seconds, and then cuts to snow. 
Amy sits, staring at the snow, her face empty. She sets the PUZZLE BOX on the table and stares at it. Takes a sip of her drink. 
THE PHONE RINGS. She nearly leaps out of the chair, striking the puzzle box with her hand. The Puzzle Box closes. 
PINHEAD vanishes back into the shadows. 
AMY Charles, I get the message. OK?    Your my editor, not my Mommy! (long beat) Charles? 
Amy waits. But there's no sound. 
AMY Hello? Hello? 
A sound comes over the line -- a hoarse gurgling sound - a ghastly wet sound - the same sound Amy heard coming from the throat of the hanged Marla. 
MARLA (through phone, wet choking voice) Don't open... 
The line goes dead. She shoves the whole phone away from her. She sits, breathing fast for a second, staring at the box. Quiet. Only the sound of the snow on the TV. 
She stands and pulls her pants on. 
INT. SUBWAY STATION - NIGHT 
A thunderous noise trails a subway car as it streaks out of a station. 
Lit with cold fluorescent light, Amy, now dressed, with her sunglasses in place, slides her card through the slot and shoves through the turnstile. She descends the long, non- working escalator -- the only one on it at this time of night. 
She reaches the subway platform. It is virtually empty. 
Amy has come down stairs that land her just about in the middle. She scans the far end of the platform, past a lone FIGURE in a SHINY GREEN PLASTIC RAINCOAT who lies motionless on a bench. 
- a couple MIDDLE-AGED GUYS in security uniforms, maybe heading for some night shift somewhere, stand, not moving, hands thrust in pockets. 
She turns back to the bench but the FIGURE in the SHINY GREEN RAINCOAT is gone. 
She takes up a position at the far end of the platform. She waits. 
A moment later, a bit of a breeze starts moving her hair. A few seconds later, a train comes roaring into the station. Amy watches the car pass her, one by one, as the train slows. The train is virtually empty. One car after the next rolls by as the train slows. 
Finally, as the train moves slowly to a stop, a car different from the others comes in. This one, for some odd reason, seems to have newspaper covering all the windows -- taped up from the inside. 
One of the doors of the covered car comes to a stop directly in front of the spot where Amy is standing -- the spot marked by the stenciled PUZZLE BOX. There's a pause, then the doors slide open -- just one the one set in front of Amy. The others stay closed. The interior of the car is dark -- the lights, apparently, are not working. 
A tall ODD-LOOKING MAN in a CONDUCTOR'S UNIFORM is standing there. He gestures toward the adjoining car. 
ONDUCTOR Next car. 
AMY Is Joey on this ride? 
CONDUCTOR Come on in... 
She enters. The doors slide closed. The train pulls out. 
INT. SUBWAY CAR - NIGHT 
The interior of the car has been transformed into some odd- ball cross between a very small nightclub and an crackhouse.. 
As the train passes out of the station, and the lights dim, we can see the lights from joints and crack pipes -- or at any rate something being smoked in some kind of pipe, glinting in the darkness. Various hands reach up and tug down the newspapers, and the tunnel lights come in, providing a flickering, constantly changing illumination. 
In the uncertain light, Amy can see the various CELEBRANTS hanging out -- some on the seats, some on the floor, some dressed, some partially undressed, some engaging in desultory drug use, others in desultory sex acts -- mostly teenagers and twenty-nothings. 
Amy looks around, not particularly effected by the oddness of the scene. The Conductor touches her arm. 
AMY I'm already into it. 
JOEY Angel, devil, angel, devil 
Amy produces the Puzzle Box from her pack. Joey looks at it like he's just seen a ghost. 
JOEY This is making me very unhappy... 
He pushes the woman from his lap. He's more serious now. 
JOEY (CONT'D) Poteilari and Minvara. On the northeast corner, two doors down, there's a stairway going down into a closed up building. It's always locked, and they're not always there. I don't know where they are when they're not. And once you get mixed up with them -- it's like that story with the tar baby -- chances are you never get loose, and if you do, you never get clean. 
The "Conductor" shouts from somewhere. 
CONDUCTOR Coming in! 
Hands promptly reach up, covering the windows with newspaper. The Conductor goes to the door. The band finishes its set as the light from the station shines through the newspapers. Joey, looking drab in the steady uneven light, stares at Amy. 
JOEY I can't take responsibility for you. 
AMY I'm not asking you to. 
Amy begins to walk off. Joey leans forward, for the first time he seems sincere, almost foreboding. He shouts over the breaking train. 
JOEY Amy Klein, I'm doing a change of heart thing here, which doesn't usually happen with strangers, but I'm trying to give a little back, it's this whole Karma kick I'm on -- don't do it. Don't go any deeper. Forget about it. Move away. Change your name. Become somebody different. 
The other members of the car watch the two of them. 
AMY Can't do that. I've got that fucked up self- destructive thing going on. 
JOEY Yes you do. 
The one door hisses open. Amy stares at Joey for a second, turns and departs, back into the fluorescent lit station. 
Joey calls after her. 
JOEY Only he can bring you back! 
INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - NIGHT 
Amy stands on the platform as the door hisses shut. The train pulls away. She checks her watch, then moves to the other side of the platform. She looks down the tunnel. The light from an approaching train is beginning to reflect off the curved wall of the tunnel. 
She turns back in the direction she just looked. Far down the platform, there's a bench with a lone occupant - - a slumped over figure dressed in a SHINY GREEN RAINCOAT. She turns toward it, staring. In the distance, no details of face or form are visible -- just the lumpy figure in the shiny green raincoat. She takes a step toward it, but still cannot make out any detail in the slumped over figure. She approaches... as does the train. There is no sign of movement. 
She comes around, closer to the edge of the platform, to get a more direct view of the green-coated form. As she does, she sees that one hand is draped off the front edge of the bench, hanging limp. The hand is gray. 
Amy takes a step forward. 
His eyes pop open! He looks at her with large black eyes, dead eyes. Dripping from beneath his raincoat is a small pool of fresh blood. 
Amy gasps, takes a step back -- and her heel lands on the edge of the subway platform. She struggles for balance. 
Abruptly, a man's voice comes from somewhere. 
VOICE Amy Klein! 
Amy stumbles forward, goes down to her knees and turns. Around twenty feet behind her, standing on the edge of the platform, with his back toward the drop, is- 
- WINTER, wearing a black trench-coat, cinched at the waist. 
Amy steps in, her way illuminated only by the indefinite light that leaks in from the street. 
There's an archway, presumably leading into the rest of the basement, on one side, but it's blocked by a great heap of rubble. 
Amy ponders the chances of getting through it, and decides to check out the rest of the hallway. She works her way through a series of ominous corridors. 
Amy senses that she is not alone, stops, and turns around. No one. She continues. 
There is only a single door left -- at the far end of the hallway. It hangs half-open, but we cannot see what's inside. She approaches it, reaches out and pushes the door open. It's a bathroom. 
As she enters we see a FIGURE beyond her in the hallways, buried in the shadows. 
INT. THE BATHROOM - DAY 
This is one of those nasty little makeshift places built into an available corner -- basically a toilet and a sink so close that there's hardly room to move. A mop and some other supplies, long forgotten, are propped up in a corner. 
Amy steps in, looks down the toilet. Nothing left but some nasty stains -- the water long dried up. Her face brushes against something hanging in the air. She pulls back. It's a pull string hanging from a naked light bulb. 
She tugs on it. Nothing. No power here. 
She stands in the dark, claustrophobic place, puzzled. She looks back down the hall. It seems as if she's come to another dead end. Then she stares at the bathroom door. Open now, it blocks a piece of the bathroom wall -- the only place she hasn't looked. 
Amy steps back, virtually straddling the toilet, and pushes the door closed. As she does, of course, what little light there is, vanishes completely. If there's something behind the door, she can't see it, or anything else. 
Abruptly, there's a sharp click as she lights her lighter, and the wavering light illuminates the tiny bathroom -- and the previously unseen space behind the door. 
The walls do not meet there. There is a narrow gap, leading to a passage, apparently "between" the walls, perhaps ten inches wide. 
Hesitating only a moment, Amy turns sideways and slides herself into the claustrophobic slot. She holds the lighter up ahead of her, but its dim flickering light does not reach to the end of the passage. She moves forward cautiously -- the floor is littered with dried chunks of plaster, rotting insulation -- seventy-five years of stuff crumbled from the insides of the walls. 
As she disappears into the tunnel, the door slowly opens behind her. Passing across the rusty doorknob, a menacing blade appears. 
Inside the tunnel, Amy reaches a vertical pipe up against one side of the wall - - only a few inches thick, but it reduces the available room to under eight inches. She hesitates. Meanwhile, the lighter in her hand is getting hot. She lets it click off. In some dim half-light we can see her slipping a handkerchief carefully around it, for insulation. 
She flicks the flint. The lighter lights. 
And, abruptly, around a million roaches , which had returned from their hiding places in the absence of the light, go skittering every which way. 
Amy lets out a squeak as the roaches vanish in an instant. 
AMY Christ... 
She looks at the pipe again, and then starts to squeeze past it. It's a tight fit. She has to squirm to get through. 
AMY Welcome to club anorexia... 
She pops free and comes out the other side. She holds up the lighter. Still the light cannot reach to the end of the passage. Steeling herself, she moves on. But as she does, the space seems to get progressively narrower and narrower. 
From ten inches to nine, to eight, until both sides of her body are scraping against the walls. She holds the lighter out. The wall continues to narrow. 
At the end of her outstretched arm, the walls are only around five inches apart. 
AMY What the... 
Clearly, she's reached the end of the line. Annoyed, she starts to back out -- then realizes that the light on the far side of her body renders the area into which she's now moving essentially black as midnight. 
She brings the hand holding the lighter close in to her body, but she can't bring her hands together in front of her -- the space is too narrow. Finally, she reaches her hand up, over her head, passing the lighter from one hand to the other directly over her head. 
As she does, the lighter almost slips. She grabs for it, but it goes out. Again she is lost in virtual darkness. 
The sound of the exhalations is coming from the unseen place. 
Then somebody in the circle moves, to get a better vantage point, and now Amy can see, clearly, what is going on. 
Winter is lying on top of the corpse of a YOUNG MAN, breathing into his mouth as he did with Katya. An almost sexual encounter yields the same results as the tape. 
He takes a final deep breath. And then, as before, the Young Man gasps. Winter pulls away. As he does, we can see the Young Man's face, smiling, despite the knife that is lodged into his chest. Winters grabs the knife and yanks it out. 
The others come forward, helping him up. 
Winter stands and somebody slips a robe over his body. He promptly looks straight at Amy, still hidden in the shadows. 
WINTER I have a room of my own. Kindly join me. 
He throws the knife at the wall, where it embeds itself in way further then it should have, and walks away. Amy moves away from the opening. She circles around, through a doorway, and into the space that she was previously watching. 
She moves forward hesitantly, trying to avoid the touch of the various occupants, who don't behave aggressively, but clearly press forward, into her personal space. 
She looks this way and that, trying to find where Winter has gone. 
A hand comes down on her shoulder. She turns suddenly. It's the Black Kid. He gestures. 
BLACK KID Winter's through there. 
He points toward a doorway, lost in shadow. Amy notices on his pointing hand that his wrists have been deeply slashed. She looks down to the other hand, which the kid politely offers for her to examine. 
Amy backs away through the crowd. Following her is the recently revived Young Man, who's still completely naked. He smiles at Amy. She moves away, and through the door to Winter's room. 
INT. WINTER'S ROOM - DAY 
This is a small, dark space, light coming mostly from a rather conventional-looking standing lamp. In the shadows beyond the little space of light is a confusion of half-open doors, walls and shadows, half lit rooms with un-guessable occupants. 
Winter is there, sitting in a padded chair in front of a coffee table, reading a book. Amy steps inside. Winter doesn't react to her presence. Abruptly, the door closes behind her. She hesitates and walks forward. 
WINTER Amy Klein. 
AMY You know me. 
WINTER I chose you. 
Amy pauses, unsure, then moves forward and takes a seat opposite him. 
AMY That was a hell of a way in. Makes me think that you don't want... 
WINTER People come in here the way they want. If it was difficult, then that was the way you wanted it. A little danger. A little mystery. That's what you expected. That's what you found. 
Winters puts the book down.     His attention is now on Amy. 
WINTER (CONT'D) Were you afraid, Amy? Just now? And during your little "rite of passage" through the walls? 
AMY Yes. Was it real? 
Winter smiles, he displays amusement to Amy's suspicions. 
WINTER And were you afraid when you saw Marla Chen? Of what you found in the bathroom? 
AMY Yes. 
WINTER You took something from her? 
FLASHBACK: 
INT. ROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK) 
CLOSE ON A DOOR being unlocked. We recognize it from the opening montage. Slowly, it is pulled open to reveal: 
A LITTLE GIRL standing there - frightened. 
INT. WINTER'S ROOM - DAY 
BACK TO SCENE. 
WINTER (CONT'D) These spaces. That what makes a hand. You get it by taking things away. You, Amy Klein, are the infinitesimal speck that's left when we subtract the infinite possibilities that the space you occupy might have held. 
FLASHBACK: 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY(FLASHBACK) 
The LITTLE GIRL kicking and screaming. She is pulled out of the closet. We never get a clear view of THE MAN, but we know he is pure evil. 
INT. WINTER'S ROOM - DAY 
BACK TO SCENE. 
Close on Amy's hand, trembling in Winter's grip. 
WINTER (CONT'D) (referring to her hand) This thing here isn't a presence. It's an absence. It's a place where things are missing. In all essential qualities, it is less than nothing. In all essential qualities, we are less than nothing. Not solid, not here, not real. 
Amy finds herself responding, falling under his spell. 
Flashback: 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY (FLASHBACK) 
The LITTLE GIRL is picked up under THE MAN'S arm, and pulled away. His groping hands move seductively, and violently. She is carried away out of sight, kicking and screaming. 
FLASH CUT TO: 
INT. DEADER'S DUNGEON - DAY 
Amy awakens from the trance. She is lying down surrounded by the Deaders. Winters stands above her. 
WINTER What did you see? 
AMY Nothing. 
INTER What are you afraid of, Amy? 
AMY I'm not afraid of you. 
WINTER Yes you are, but still you can't run -- you won't run. (studies her) I wonder why that is? (beat) I'm no devil. I'm no monster. Amy, I'll never hurt you and I'll never leave you. 
Amy doesn't answer. Winter extends to her a knife. 
WINTER (cont'd) Accept my gift. No more fear. No more questions. No one can ever hurt you again. 
For a moment she appears to consider his offering. Then, as if waking up... she shoves herself back away from Winter. 
AMY No, get... get away... 
CHARLES I think it's too dangerous, for a lot of reasons. 
AMY This isn't like you. 
CHARLES I know. I'm going to hate myself in the morning. 
AMY I'm just a little... fucked in the head. That's all. It's just a funk, but I'm fine. All I need is some sleep. 
CHARLES OK. I just thought I'd put it out there to see if you'd bite. I should've known better. It goes against my instincts. A MY That's what I love about you. I'll call you tomorrow. (beat) 
Hey, Charles, did you know that the word "demon" comes from the Greek word for knowledge. 
CHARLES Yes I believe I've heard that somewhere before. 
AMY Well, I wish somebody had told me about it. 
She hangs up, and shuts off a light on her way to bed. 
FLASHBACK: 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY (FLASHBACK) 
CLOSE ON the LITTLE GIRL slung under THE MAN'S arm, as he carried her down the hall. She's scraping at the walls, the door jams, anything to try to free herself from him. 
Her hand sweeps across a small table at the end of the hall, smashing over a GLASS VASE. 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT.   AMY'S HOTEL ROOM - LATER 
The room is dark, drained of all color the way things appear when we see in them in almost total darkness. 
Amy's lying in bed on her stomach. The sheet has crumpled off of her. She's dressed only in her panties. 
Abruptly, there's the sound of a wettish "thud" and Amy seems to bounce a little. Her eyes open, but she isn't alarmed. Still lying on her back, she flicks her eyes this way and that, but, seeing nothing, she closes them again. 
A few seconds later, we see some black liquid trickle across her shoulder, coming from the unseen center of her back . It follows a course down her backbone, then swerves and finds a path along the inner edge of one of her shoulder blades, finally trickling down her neck. It continues to flow, staining the pillow by her face. 
She stirs slightly, clearly feeling the trickle. She puts her hand to her shoulder, smearing the black liquid. Still half- asleep, she tries to "brush" it off... but it continues to flow. Finally, her eyes open. She sits up painfully and looks at her hands -- stained with this sticky black stuff. She stares at it, not quite awake enough to figure it out. 
She reaches over her shoulder, pulls her hand back, stained with the black stuff. She looks down at her pillow, also stained. Confused, she rises, painfully awkward, and heads toward the bathroom. We can see that her feet leave blackish wet footprints across the floor as she moves toward the bathroom. 
INT. HOTEL BATHROOM - NIGHT 
She moves in, stares in the mirror -- sees the side of her face and her shoulder, smeared with black. She fumbles for the light, flips it on. 
In the sudden, shocking glare of returning light, COLOR abruptly re-enters the world... And the black of the liquid that's stained Amy's face and hands, that track the floor of the white-tiled bathroom, that smear the wall where she flipped on the light switch turns instantly to its true color The color of blood. 
Amy gasps at the sight -- she looks like she's just crawled out of a slaughterhouse. She reaches behind her, feeling her back, trying to find the source of the blood that seems to be pouring out of her, dripping to the floor, pouring down the small of her back, staining the back of her panties a vivid, ghastly red. 
In a sudden impulse she turns on the water in the sink full blast, washes away the blood from her hands, scooping handfuls onto her face and the front of her body. The water drips to the floor, commingling with the blood, turning it a nasty pink. 
She reaches behind her back, feeling again -- her hand comes back as vividly red as before. Again she washes them. She stops dead, seeing something in the mirror. 
Something is glinting between her breasts. She touches her finger to it. It looks like a tiny bit of gleaming metal, poking out from inside of her, almost like a tiny steel splinter. It appears to have just barely broken through the skin from "inside" -- barely a drop of blood. 
She stands staring down at it, breathing fast. What the hell is it? 
Then, slowly, almost against her will, she turns her back to the mirror and looks over her shoulder. She sees -- and we see for the first time -- the center of her back where her questing hands couldn't reach. 
Amy puts the phone back on the table. 
AMY Who are you? Why did you do this to me? 
PINHEAD I didn't. Believe me, when I want to hurt you, it will be more than a scratch. 
AMY Then why the hell are you here? Why are you in my room? 
PINHEAD This isn't your room. It's mine... 
AMY What... 
PINHEAD This is my room, my building, my street... my world. You still can't believe that you're in the "real" world, can you? I mean... you've just had a A knife run through you. Shouldn't it hurt? 
AMY It's a dream. I'm dreaming... 
PINHEAD No. Dreams come to an end. Nightmares are forever. 
He approaches her. She backs away. 
PINHEAD You've been recruited as a soldier in another man's war. A war he will never win, that I can assure you. 
AMY I don't know what you're talking about. 
PINHEAD You will. Soon enough. But one shouldn't worship false Gods. Especially when that false God is themselves. 
AMY I'm not a believer. 
PINHEAD Oh you will. Tell me, do you believe in Hell? 
Looks down at the blade jutting out from her chest. 
AMY Starting to. 
PINHEAD You opened a door. He pulled you in. But the only way out -- is through me. 
He steps towards her. 
She grabs up the phone, flings it. It hits the far wall and falls to the floor. Winter's gone. She reaches a hand behind her, to her back, brings it back, red with blood. 
A MOMENT LATER 
We see Amy rolling a towel up into a tight cylinder. Hands trembling, she lays it across a wide strip of duct tape that she's unwound from a roll and laid down on the table, sticky side up. 
She presses the towel down so that it sticks, then picks up the tape, with towel attached. She slides the towel down the center of her back until it covers the wound, and then tugs the tape tight across her chest, compressing the towel against the wound. 
She takes the tape and awkwardly loops it around the towel and herself a couple more times, finally biting through the tape and tossing the roll away. She yanks yesterday's clothes up, discards the skirt in favor of a pair of black jeans. 
She tugs them up over her bloody legs, pulls a black shirt on over her top, thrusts her bloody feet into a pair of heavy shoes and finally tugs on a black leather jacket. 
She goes to the mirror, turns, trying to see how her profile looks with the towel stuffed in her back. 
She turns, about to leave... then realizes that her hands are red with her own blood. She hurries to the sink, rinses them off, and rinses the blood off of her face and neck, then grabs her bag and heads out the door. 
EXT. AMY'S HOTEL - NIGHT 
Amy comes unsteadily down out of her Hotel. 
EXT. DARK STREET - NIGHT 
Her chest is stained with blood. She licks her fingers and wipes the blood away from the middle of her chest. Joey's eyes narrow. He leans forward to study it. He leans in closer, hesitates, then leans back, looking Amy in the eye. 
JOEY Wow, are those real? 
Amy doesn't react. 
JOEY Okay, you're not in the mood for my light- hearted banter. What the hell, this isn't my idea of paradise either. 
AMY I don't understand. Why aren't I dead? Or am I? Please... 
JOEY Life, death, they're not all that different, really. You can find your death in your life. You can find your life in your death. Round and round and round you go. 
AMY Please, help me. 
JOEY I am helping you. 
AMY Then explain what the hell is going on. Why did I have a knife buried in my back? Why am I seeing dead people walking around? Why is there a guy with Pins in his head stopping by in the middle of the night for a chat. 
She gets in his face. 
AMY Why am I not DEAD! 
There's a jolt as the train starts to pull into the station. The light from the station begins to illuminate the inside of the car more clearly. Joey leans back from her. 
JOEY Whoa. It's time to give in Amy, you're just fighting it too hard. Forget about the truth, forget about reality, just sit back and enjoy the ride. There's nothing you can do anyway. We're all just piece's in Winter's little puzzle. 
AMY The box. 
JOEY You're willing to do anything to find the truth. (MORE) 
JOEY(cont'd) That's what I find most attractive about you. Well, that and the fact that you have a great ass. You and I are the same really, we're both willing to take it as far as it will go, to the edge, to the extreme. 
(beat) 
You know what our biggest problem is Amy Klein? Neither of us know when to get off the God damn train. 
The train jerks to a stop, tossing Amy a little. She regains her footage and turns back to Joey but in the flickering fluorescent light, Joey's skin suddenly looks sickly pale. 
AMY Joey? 
He doesn't answer. He doesn't move. 
AMY Joey come on. Let's get off the train. Right now, you and me. 
He still doesn't move. Amy reaches out a shaky hand and takes his glasses off. 
AMY (voice trailing off) You and me... 
Joey's eyes are empty, glazed. He's dead. Not only is he dead, it's clear that he's been dead for awhile. 
Then she freezes when she realizes the sound has completely dropped out around her. 
All she can hear is her heart beating. 
She slowly turns around to find that all of Joey's Celebrants on the train are also dead and surrounded by the familiar buzz of flies. 
Some of the dead are hung from the hand rails by HOOKS AND CHAINS, their throats slashed, eyes gouged, bullet holes in the head, etc... 
A large female cenobite is sewing the filleted skin from one Deaders throat open to reveal his vocal chords. He makes a sound at Amy and his chords vibrate. But there's this one COKE HEAD GUY who was snorting a line when Amy got on the train. 
CHARLES Feel better. (beat) When you get a chance, check out the public area. It's a swinging place. I mean, like, they're literally... swinging. 
He heads out. Amy watches him go. She waits a beat, and then hops out of bed. She looks around for Nurses and Orderlies but there's no one around. She exits frame. 
INT. PSYCH WARD/COMMON AREA - DAY 
Blank walls lit with flickering fluorescent lighting. There's a TV hanging from ceiling in the corner showing TIME-LAPSE PHOTOGRAPHY of a blooming rose (a little homage to the original Hellraiser.) 
We move to find a various assortment of PATIENTS, but none of them are watching the TV, they're too busy entertaining themselves and their invisible friends. 
Amy enters cautiously, feeling a little threatened by the other patients. She looks around, not sure where she should plant herself and then she sees her- 
A LITTLE GIRL (age 6) sitting off by herself in the corner of the room drawing pictures. A few of them (a half human/half monster clawing at a closet door, a child screaming, a child running from the monster, a child holding a butcher knife, etc.) are taped on the wall behind her. 
Amy walks over to her. There's just something about her. 
AMY Mind if I join you? 
LITTLE GIRL Please. I'm drawing pictures. 
AMY I can see that, they're lovely. 
LITTLE GIRL Want me to draw your picture? 
AMY I'd like that very much. 
The Little Girl stares at Amy and focuses in on her features. We can't see what she's drawing as her little hand starts to move across the sketch pad. 
But there's something a little off. Her hand doesn't move like a six-year-old would draw, it moves with the confidence and control of an adult's. 
Amy tries to get a glance at the portrait. The Little Girl pulls it close to her. 
LITTLE GIRL No peaking. 
AMY I'm sorry, you're right. 
With a few more strokes the drawing is complete. The Little girl studies it, pleased with herself. 
She spins it so Amy -- but not the audience -- can see it. 
CLOSE ON AMY -- her eyes wide with terror. 
LITTLE GIRL What do you think? 
AMY'S POV as we get our first good look at it. 
It's Amy's face as a CENOBITE, twisted and stretched in a way that begins to reveal the skull around her DARK EMPTY EYES. 
There's also that nasty knife wound in the center of her chest with hooks stretching the skin back and to the side. 
LITTLE GIRL (O.C.) I only draw what I see... Amy. 
Amy backs away from her, trembling. 
AMY How do you know my name? 
The Little Girl giggles. Amy turns to the other drawings that the Little Girl has taped to the walls. T hey too now all look like Cenobites, some look like Deaders, one looks just like WINTER... 
AMY No... this isn't happening. 
MARLA Looks like you're running out of time. 
Amy leaps up from the table and suddenly Marla is gone. In fact the whole room is empty and dead quiet. A pool of blood lies beneath her seat. She staggers a bit as she moves forward. 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
The main corridor. It seems to go on forever. 
Amy turns back to the common area. Empty. 
The she hears the familiar sound of A LITTLE GIRL SCREAMING. It's faint and echoing. 
Amy turns back down the corridor to the Little Girl's voice. 
MARLA (V.O.) It's all about finding the truth... 
Amy starts to slowly make her way down the long cold corridor. 
With each step she takes, the walls of the corridor become whiter, slowly bleaching out. She looks below her and sees the blood now draining from the wound. 
She stumbles back slowly and turns as the LITTLE GIRL'S SCREAMS continue. 
Then she hears the BANGING and RATTLING of a door. Like someone's fighting to get out. 
FLASHBACK: 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY (FLASHBACK) 
AMY'S FATHER half walking, half stumbling out of one of the rooms at the far end of the corridor. He's dressed in a stained white tank top shirt, his eyes glazed and distant. 
He's knows the source of the noise -- and he's pissed. 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
Back to scene. 
Amy keeps stumbling down the corridor. 
FLASHBACK: 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY (FLASHBACK) 
Now Amy is within the flashback. She looks good, no blood, almost peaceful. Her father looks down the corridor toward Amy, but doesn't seem to see her. He turns and storms off in the opposite direction. 
Amy can't believe what she's seeing, but she can't help herself. She follows him. 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
Back to scene. 
Amy is stumbling more than walking as she grows weaker with every step. Her eyes begin to glaze over and her vision is beginning to blur. 
She looks down to find the trail of BRIGHT RED BLOOD trailing behind her on the otherwise PURE-WHITE floor. 
When she looks back up she finds herself in- 
FLASHBACK: 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY (FLASHBACK) 
AMY'S EYES SNAP OPEN as we quickly BOOM UP to find her lying on a mattress in the middle of the floor surrounded by- 
THE DEADERS. She's in the middle of the ritual. The Deaders are all chanting. Marla and Joey are there. 
DEADERS (O.C.) My skin isn't real. My eyes aren't real. My muscles aren't real. (MORE) 
DEADERS(cont'd) My bones, my heart, my veins and nerves, and flesh and meat... aren't real. What I see, what I hear, what I taste, what I touch, what I remember, what I think, what I feel, aren't real. 
With a glance she can see that the PUZZLE BOX, in its solved configuration, sits on a make-shift altar at the head of the mattress. 
WINTER is towering over her at her feet. He holds out a knife -- THE FAMILIAR STILETTO -- for her to take. 
WINTER You've gone through this before Amy. Go through it again -- with me. 
Amy has a sudden look of resignation, mixed with a little relief. She reaches out and slowly takes the knife from Winter. 
WINTER That's it. I knew you were the one. The second I saw you, I knew you were the one. 
The chanting continues. 
DEADERS My skin isn't real. My eyes aren't real. My muscles aren't real. My bones, my heart, my veins and nerves, and flesh and meat... aren't real. What I see, what I hear, what I taste, what I touch, what I remember, what I think, what I feel, isn't real. 
Amy looks at Marla. She looks deader then ever. She chants with the others. Winter holds the knife closer for Amy. 
Amy looks at the PUZZLE BOX. RAYS OF LIGHT start to stretch out like hands and swirl from the PUZZLE BOX. 
THE ROOM STARTS TO RUMBLE. 
A BLACK VOID starts to take shape and swirl behind them. Winter is pleased. 
WINTER It's working. I knew it. 
He kneels down next to Amy. 
WINTER Say it with us Amy. You have to say it with us. 
Amy's hands start to tremble. 
AMY I can't. 
WINTER Yes you can Amy. You're one of us now, all you have to do is take this final step and let the pain go. And welcome a world of ultimate pleasures. AN ARM, bluish white, stretches out from the VOID trying to grab Joey who ducks it's grasp. 
The Deaders break the circle around Amy as more ARMS reach out from the void. The VOICES OF TORTURED SOULS, twisted and warped, scream out for help in the wind that BURSTS out of the void. 
HOOKS AND CHAINS reach out and grab the outstretched arms, dragging them back into the VOID. Back into Hell. 
The Deaders turn to Winter -- they're all a little freaked out. From the look on their faces it's clear that this isn't at all what they expected. 
JOEY Where are the naked chicks? The oil? The orgies? 
It's not what Winter expected either. 
WINTER (calm) Finish it Amy. 
AMY I can't. 
WINTER (screams) Finish it! 
Amy steels herself with sudden resolve. 
Now we can see the terror in Winter's eyes. 
PINHEAD It just might come true. 
Winter screams as he is finally torn apart by the chains. Pinhead turns his attention to the DEADERS. 
PINHEAD This world, it obviously disappoints you all. Perhaps that's why you choose to begin this journey. And as long as you so willingly accepted, allow me to finish off what he started. 
And out of the darkness an oversized MENACING CHAIN comes FLYING OUT, HARPOONING straight through the midsections of all the deaders lined on the right side of Amy. Piercing 
them at all different levels. 
Then another chain HARPOONS the Deaders on the left side. The Deaders look like fish on a stringer. They dangle there, suspended by the chains. 
PINHEAD (to Amy) And as for you. You opened the box, you brought us all together. You chose wisely. I'm pleased. 
AMY I didn't want any of this. They used me to open the box. I didn't choose to do anything. Amy looks to Marla, she's got the fear of god in her. Pinhead sees Amy looking for help. 
PINHEAD She's one of us now Amy. Now a guide to the far reaches of pleasure. To a world where suffering is taken to higher level. 
AMY Please. 
PINHEAD You opened the box. 
AMY I didn't mean to. I only wanted the truth. 
PINHEAD And now you have it. But knowledge comes with a price -- and it's time to pay. 
AMY What about them? 
We see the CENOBITES now with snake-like tongues working their way up the line of Deaders towards Amy. They're preparing each one as they pass. Poking them with large pins, piercing them, stitching them, filleting them, etc... 
PINHEAD They belong to me now. They offered themselves willingly through him to me -- And now it's time for you to do the same. 
Amy grabs the knife from the floor and points it at Pinhead. 
PINHEAD It won't be that easy this time. But yes, your Father is with us too. And he's waiting for you. 
These words pierce through Amy. She looks at Marla, now barely hanging on to any signs of liveliness. Her head lifts up to Amy. 
ARLA You're here to stop this Amy. He needs your soul willingly. Don't let him take you. Don't go willingly. 
Marla looks at the knife. Amy gets it, she only has one way out. Marla can see the uncertainty in her eyes. 
MARLA Its over. Winter is gone. You can't come back. You won't become a Deader...or one of them. 
Marla looks to Pinhead, then back to Amy. They both know what she has to do. 
MARLA (her final words) Only he can bring you back. 
Amy sees the meat hanging off the chains. It used to be Winter. She glares at Pinhead with a sudden look of confidence, like a light bulb has gone off and she can finally see her way out. She raises the knife high in front of her. 
The two SNAKE-TONGUED CENOBITES move in closer to Amy. They can't wait to have a little taste. 
For a moment, Pinhead is pleased, then Amy begins the DEADER CHANT, but reverses its meaning. 
AMY                               PINHEAD My skin IS real. My eyes ARE       It's too late to save real. My muscles are real. My      yourself. Your soul is mine bones, my heart, my veins and      and mine alone. Your Father nerves, and flesh and meat...      is waiting for you. He misses are real. What I see, what I       you so much. hear, what I taste, what I            (louder) touch, what I remember, what       The only way out Amy Klein -- I think, what I feel, is           is THROUGH ME. real. 
The Cenobites freeze for a beat and turn to Pinhead. They haven't seen that before. 
