HELLRAISER III: HELL ON EARTH 
Written by 
Peter Atkins 
Original Story by Peter Atkins & Tony Randel 
1st Draft  May 8 1991                 Bobbi Thomson Revised   May 29 1991                 William Morris Agency Revised  June 13 1991                 151 El Camino Drive Revised  July 1 1991                  Beverly Hills CA 90212 
EXT.   DERELICT STREET   TWILIGHT 
Night is falling in a forgotten part of the city. 
The street-lights are a joke - three out of four are dead. Only a large moon and some cloud-streaked stars illuminate this dark and derelict street. 
Once the hub of an industrial area, now the buildings are abandoned, the sidewalks choked with litter and debris.  Stores are boarded-up, windows are glassless, walls are graffitied. 
At various points, several BUMS warm their hands at trash-can fires. 
ANGLE ON TWO BUMS 
- as their eyes move, following something moving down the street.  Heard OFF is the sound of a smooth and powerful engine. 
ANGLE ON STREET 
Down this boulevard of decay and despair drives an incongruously expensive car - a Range Rover. A rich kid is going shopping. 
The car cruises the ruins until it pulls up outside the only open store on the block. 
ANGLE ON STORE 
A dim light bulb shines within - the only indicator that the store is still trading.  Its windows are grimy, its door defaced.  Above the door - barely legible through the accrued dirt of city years - a sign; CARDUCCI'S ANTIQUES AND CURIOS. 
ANGLE ON CAR 
The side door opens - helped on its way by the kick of an expensive leather boot - and JP MONROE steps out. 
JP is 24, rich, handsome, and spoiled. His hair is slick with designer-grease, his slim frame is wrapped in a $600 leather jacket. 
For a moment he surveys the store and casts contemptuous glances up and down the ruined street.  He shows no anxiety at being in this twilight part of town.  Cocooned in the confidence of wealth, he's never felt threatened in his life. Satisfied he's in the right place, he walks confidently through the doorway. 
INT.   CARDUCCI'S ANTIQUES   NIGHT 
The store itself looks like an antique - old wood panelling and shelving, Victorian display cases, and faded wallpaper.  It is grimy, dusty, and dimly-lit - and apparently unattended. 
It is packed with merchandise - shelves and aisles overflow onto the floor making the place a maze to walk through. 
The stock is a strange surreal mix.  Discarded items from 50's America (Norge fridges, toasters, Frankie Lymon albums) share space with older items; framed pictures, Victorian automata, wax dolls, and (a specialty of the store?) items of punishment; stocks, iron boots, chastity belts, whips. Could that really be an Electric Chair glimpsed in the shadowed back of the room? 
ANGLE ON JP 
He wanders through the merchandise, casting appraising glances at some items.  Some he even runs his hands over - grimacing at the dust and grime they leave on his fingers.  But his manner suggests he is looking for something specific. 
Near the room's center is an old hoarding from the dead days of vaudeville and travelling shows.  It is tall and broad and is leaning against something behind it. 
ANGLE ON HOARDING 
- which is colorfully and garishly decorated and full of hyperbolic come-ons to long-dead punters: 
YOU WILL BE AMAZED! THEY SHOULDN'T BE ALIVE! FREAKS OF NATURE! AN EDUCATIONAL SHOW FOR ALL THE FAMILY PRESENTED UNDER THE AUSPICES OF PROFESSOR EMMANUEL BOCKLIN, TRAGEDIAN AND MENAGERIST. 
ANGLE ON JP 
- as he moves the hoarding aside. 
JP Wow ... 
REVEALED is a six-foot tall black rectangular pillar, covered in beautifully detailed 3-D carvings all in the same matt-black finish as the pillar itself.  The pillar is extremely bizarre, as if a New York avant-garde sculptor has interpreted a Totem Pole for jaded modern tastes.  The carvings are of dead rats, copulating skeletons,  filigree-patterned boxes, and faces. 
One of these faces - recognizable to the audience but not to JP - is the ossified visage of PINHEAD, the demon from the first two HELLRAISER pictures. 
ANGLE ON JP 
- as he leans in to study this face, already fascinated by its calm cruelty and promise of dark wisdom. 
JOEY I know.  I know.  But it's just so ... neat, isn't it?  The first gig that isn't cute kids or diet gurus and it's taken away from me. 
DOC Yeah, well like you said - it's a mystery.  But that's all it is. Mystery.  Not malice.  What, you think the station paid off every accident victim in the city to ... ? 
Doc is interrupted by the RINGING of a cell-phone he has holstered at his waist.  He picks it up. 
DOC Speak. 
CELLPHONE Doc.  24th and Cedar.  Fast.  Hostage situation. 
DOC OK.  Listen - Joey's here.  Shall ... 
CELLPHONE No need.  Martin's already there. Hurry.  You've got ambulances to beat. 
The line goes dead.  Doc looks at Joey.  She heard it all.  He shrugs apologetically. 
JOEY Better hurry, Doc.  A real story.  With a real reporter. 
DOC Joey ....  Look, you wanna ride?  I can go by your place. 
JOEY You'd lose the money-shots.  No.  I'll catch a bus.  Or a cab.  Don't worry about it.  Go. 
DOC OK.  Be careful.  And lighten up.  Story of your life could be right round the corner. 
JOEY That is the story of my life. 
With a rueful smile, Joey watches Doc leave. 
Joey and the Nurse exchange glances - Joey's impassive but vaguely friendly, the Nurse's a little disapproving; if the camera's gone, what the hell are YOU still doing here? 
INT.   HOSPITAL CORRIDOR   NIGHT 
Joey makes her solitary way along a medium-length corridor that has two sets of double swing doors at either end, one set giving on to the ER, the other toward an exit.  Joey is heading for the latter, her mood sad and defeated. 
ANGLE ON EXIT DOORS 
Suddenly - SMASH! - the doors burst open from the other side. 
ANGLE ON CORRIDOR 
The mood is suddenly fast and urgent as a gurney is wheeled rapidly through the doors. 
Two PARAMEDICS, both male, both about Joey's age, are pushing the gurney at a run and talking rapidly to each other.  They completely ignore Joey and also ignore the TEENAGE GIRL who is running beside the gurney. 
The girl - TERRI - is 18 or 19.  She is a pale-faced blonde dressed as if for a Desperately-Seeking-Susan party and is keeping up a stream of chatter as if rehearsing excuses. 
As Joey flattens herself against the corridor wall to let them pass, it is neither the paramedics nor Terri that get her attention.  It is the BOY on the gurney. 
ANGLE ON GURNEY/BOY 
The teenage boy lies flat on his back semi-conscious, his eyelids fluttering, his breathing shallow. 
Horribly, shockingly, dangling from his face and body are long, heavy chains that drag and rattle along the corridor floor. There are at least sixteen of them and they seem firmly buried in his skin. 
ANGLE ON CORRIDOR 
The DIALOGUE as the gurney is rushed to the ER doors is RAPID- FIRE and OVERLAPPED, the Paramedics responding only to each other and ignoring the two girls comments and questions. 
TERRI It wasn't my fault.  It wasn't my fault. 
PARAMEDIC 1 10 milligram IV Valium stat.  How the fuck did this happen ... ?! 
TERRI It was outside.  I wasn't even with him. 
PARAMEDIC 2 You ever see anything like this before? 
TERRI He must have stolen it. 
JOEY What's going on? 
PARAMEDIC 1 Yeah, sure.  Five times a fucking day. Just push! 
Once the gurney has passed her, Joey runs along behind it. 
TERRI It was off the statue.  In the club. 
The lights in the room flicker and strobe. 
The fibrillator pads arc angrily. The Doctor flings them away. 
ELECTRIC ENERGY seems to run along the slumped chains and they disappear as if dissolved in some impossible electric meltdown. 
Lighting and machinery return to normal (ECG still flat-lining) and the medical staff stare thunder-struck at the dead boy. 
For the first time, the other people in the ER become aware of Joey's presence in the doorway. 
DOCTOR Who's that?  Get her out of here! 
The Nurse heads for the doors.  Joey is already backing away. 
ANGLE THROUGH DOORS INTO CORRIDOR 
- as Joey backs away, an expression of numbed shock on her face.  The doors close over, blocking her out. 
ANGLE ON FIBRILLATOR PADS 
- still arcing. 
CROSS-FADE TO 
INT.   CROSS-TOWN BUS    NIGHT 
CLOSE on flickering neon light in the bus cabin. 
ANGLE ON JOEY 
- glancing at the light from her seat. 
JOEY'S POV - VARIOUS ANGLES 
The bus is almost deserted.  Three other passengers - A PUNK, A BAG LADY, and A WINO - are spread out around the interior.  All seem lost in worlds of their own but their vacant alienated stares highlight Joey's isolation and tension.  Fear has entered her life. 
The bus moves through the neon-lit loneliness of downtown streets. 
ANGLE ON JOEY 
- her face, lit by reflected store-signs and street-lights, is lost and distant, as if she is submerged in some dream-sea of memory and sadness. 
INT.   TV STATION, EDITING SUITE   DAY 
A wall of TV monitors, each monitor showing Joey sitting on a couch with a painfully thin older woman - BRITTANY VERTUE. 
Brittany's probably 50 but her face is as tight and smooth as surgery can make it.  She is dressed in the standard uniform of the health-avatar; brightly-colored leotard over black tights. 
Joey has a big paperback book - BEYOND HUNGER; THE BRITTANY VERTUE GUIDE TO HOLISTIC DIETING - which she holds to camera. She smiles and, turning to face Brittany, crosses her legs. 
The image freezes.  And replays.  Joey crosses her legs again. And again.  And again. 
BRAD (over) See?  This is what I mean.  Your technique is all wrong. 
CUT TO WIDE 
Joey (in real time) is sitting in an easy chair in the editing suite looking at the wall of monitors. 
BRAD, a techie in his late-twenties, and DOC FISHER are in swivel chairs immediately in front of the video console. 
All three are drinking coffee.  Doc is smoking a cigarette. 
JOEY (guardedly) What do you mean? 
BRAD I mean hardly any thigh.  I'm telling you, Joey; shorter skirt, more lift on the leg-cross ... and you're made. 
Doc chuckles in a half-friendly, half-sleazy way. 
JOEY Fuck you. 
BRAD What, you think I'm kidding?  I guarantee it.  An inch more flank.  Boys upstairs get hot.  Bingo, you're an anchor-woman. 
JOEY (to herself) Jesus Christ ... 
DOC Ah, give her a break. 
TWO BIMBOS 
- giggle, purse their lips, shake their heads. 
JOEY 
- catches sight of a blonde figure moving across the dance floor and pushes through the crowd to follow.  She taps the figure's arm but, as it turns, she realizes it is a man  some 70's revivalist GLITTER-ROCKER.  He looks quizzically at her. 
Joey's mouth moves and this time she seems to get some response.  The Glitter-Rocker mouths a name. 
Joey can't hear him.  She hands him a business card and a pen. 
He scrawls a name on the back of the card and Joey nods her thanks as he moves on. 
CLOSE ANGLE ON CARD 
- as Joey reads the name "Terri" on it.  She flips the card to reveal her name and number and writes "Terri - Please call!". 
ANGLE ON BAR 
- as Joey pushes to the counter and hands the card to a BARMAN who looks at it, nods, and puts it beneath the counter. 
ANGLE ON EXIT 
- as Joey makes her way out. 
ANGLE ON DANCE FLOOR 
Camera moves into the tightly-packed throng on the dance floor, making its way slowly toward the previously unseen center. 
The crowd parts slightly to reveal, in the direct center of the floor, the tall black pillar from the opening sequence. 
The pillar is mounted on a plinth and spins as the clientele dance around it.  It seems very in keeping with the decor of the club but even so it is a strong unsettling presence. 
The pillar has been mounted upside down, so that it looks even odder than our first glimpse of it.  Near the bottom the inverted face of Pinhead, black and frozen, can be seen. 
The camera begins to spin around the pillar in contrary motion to the pillar's own movement and, as it does so, draws closer and closer making for a disorienting, vertiginous image. 
As this happens, the raucous sound of the band Thanatos begins to fade into a whirl of ECHO and to be replaced by a whirring, spinning, sound which we only recognize fully as we 
CUT TO 
EXT.   DENSE JUNGLE   DAY     (JOEY'S DREAM) 
The screen is filled with dense jungle foliage. 
The chugging spinning sound is now identifiable as the sound of Helicopter blades, one element of a SOUND MONTAGE conveying the sense and feel of a Jungle War; Helicopters in flight, machine gun fire, distant explosions, confused shouts and cries. 
A POV camera pushes its way through the lush, humid greenery. 
The camera seems to be searching for something, glancing this way and that, shoving leaves and tall grass aside. 
Voices begin to emerge clearly from the SOUND MASS off-screen as if the unseen seeker is getting nearer to his or her goal. 
SOLDIER 1 (off) Call for a Medi-Vac! 
SOLDIER 2 (off) Don't die, man!  Don't fucking die! 
The dialogue prompts a more furious effort on the part of the POV camera.  Pushing frantically through the obscuring foliage, it finally gains a clearer view and stops, looking ahead. 
In a tiny clearing, ten feet from the camera, still partially obscured by the jungle, two camouflage-clad SOLDIERS lean over the prone body of a third.  It is unclear due to distance but there is a lot of blood on the Soldier's body and uniform. 
A new sound joins the SOUND MONTAGE - a persistent, rhythmic, ringing sound.  The other elements die away until only this is left and we recognize it as the sound of a telephone as we 
CUT TO 
INT.   BEDROOM, JOEY'S APARTMENT   NIGHT 
Joey jerks upright in bed as the ringing continues.  Confused and disoriented, her eyes fly around her darkened bedroom as if she's trying to understand where she is and what is happening. 
Finally, she registers the phone and leans toward her bedside table to pick it up. 
ANGLE ON BEDSIDE TABLE 
- favoring the luminous display of an alarm clock next to the phone.  Its warm green figures show the time is 2:35. 
- as JP's hand whips out of the hole, shaking in shock and pain.  A rat is hanging on to one of JP's fingers, its sharp teeth buried in the flesh! 
JP swings his arm violently through the air, dislodging the rat with the force of his swing.  A spray of blood is seen to come from JP's wounded finger. 
ANGLE ON RAT 
- as it lands heavily in a shadowed corner of the club and scurries away deeper into the darkness, squeaking furiously. 
ANGLE ON JP 
- as he looks down at his finger, face snarling. 
JP Son of a ... 
ANGLE ON FINGER 
VERY CLOSE.  Blood seeps from the tiny teeth marks. 
JP (off) ... bi ... 
JP's voice is cut off by a strange SIZZLING NOISE heard OFF. 
JP's face moves up to look at the pillar.  A look of awe and shock crosses his face. 
ANGLE ON PILLAR 
Some small drops of blood stand out bright red on the blackness of the pillar.  The sizzling noise is coming from them. 
Suddenly the drops draw together magically into one large ruby of blood - already larger than possibility would allow.  Then it gets wierder; the blood suddenly dissipates into six or seven little rivulets that begin to run down the pillar. 
The streams of blood don't simply fall straight.  They seem to follow some pre-gouged pattern, running down the pillar tracing the blackened organic contours of the carvings. 
They all culminate at the point of Pinhead's chin - and then separate again, running over his frozen black face along the carved scar lines that make a matrix across his features. 
When every canal line on the demon's face is filled neatly with blood, a BLUE LIGHT seems to glow from within the pillar through Pinhead's face, giving it temporarily the blue tone he had enjoyed in (un)life. 
ANGLE ON JP 
CLOSE on his awe-struck face - bathed in reflected blue light. 
ANGLE ON PINHEAD 
- as gradually the blueness subsides again, the visible blood vanishing with it, leaving the same frozen implacable blackness as before but charged now with a waiting power. 
FADE TO BLACK 
INT.   KITCHEN, JOEY'S APT.   DAY      (NEXT MORNING) 
BLACKNESS 
JOEY (off) Oh my God ... 
CLOSE ON STOVE TOP 
A frying pan sits atop a burner.  it contains the ugliest mess of scrambled eggs you have ever seen ... or perhaps it's an omelette.  There are other ingredients in there but they're burnt so black they're unrecognizable.  At least half of the mixture lies all over the stove top instead of in the pan. 
JOEY (off) Did I sleep through an earthquake? 
VARIOUS ANGLES 
- showing the chaos all around the kitchen: Spilled flour on work surfaces; Egg-shells on the linoleum; A knocked-over glass of orange juice, the juice soaking into a piece of kitchen roll; Coffee as black and thick as a mix of Indian ink and molasses. 
CUT TO WIDE 
Joey, in her dressing-gown, stands in the doorway with a shocked expression on her face. 
Terri, in an oversized man's shirt, stands by the stove holding a fish-slice and smiling nervously. 
TERRI I figured I'd make breakfast. 
JOEY Right ... That's ... er ... that's nice of you, Terri.  Can I ask?  Is it always this ... exploratory? 
TERRI Ha!  I don't know yet.  First time. Kitchen virgin, that's me. 
Joey nods slowly, crossing to a cabinet and taking out some instant coffee. 
SANDY A prize?  For what? 
JP You see, everyday I have my friend John here bring ... 
SANDY The barman?  I thought he was called Rick? 
JP He's a barman.  Whatever.  Do you mind if I continue? 
SANDY I'm sorry. 
JP Everyday I have my friend Rick here bring a newly-cut red rose in with him and keep it behind the bar.  And I award it to a woman of exceptional beauty. 
SANDY Oh come on.  There're lots of girls here who look better than ... 
JP Don't do that!  Don't put yourself down. If you have a quality, be proud of it... 
While talking, and without taking his eyes off Sandy, JP gestures at the barman and their glasses. 
JP ... Let it define you.  Whatever it is. Most of the roses die behind the bar. This is the first I've given out for nearly a month. 
SANDY No.  Really? 
Two full glasses join the still half-full ones on the bar. 
JP Yes really. 
SANDY Wow.  Thank you. 
JP No.  Thank you. 
ANGLE ON GLASSES 
TIME-FADE 
ANGLE ON GLASSES 
Now there are six empty glasses on the bar and two half-full ones. 
ANGLE UP TO JP AND SANDY ... 
- except they're not there.  The two bar-stools are empty. 
INT.  JP'S PRIVATE ROOM   NIGHT 
The music OFF from the club is dull and muffled. 
JP1s private room is the size - and shares the general appearance of - an expensive studio apartment. 
His room looks like an annex to his club - black walls, black fittings, artworks of elegant cruelty - show that JP's taste for the bizarre is not just professional. 
Camera explores the room as the sound of BREATHING grows OFF. 
ANGLE ON PILLAR 
- now the right way up, it stands in a corner of the room.  As usual, it looks jarring and impressive but it doesn't really seem out of place in JP's room. 
The Breathing OFF becomes mixed with MOANS and SMALL CRIES. 
ANGLE ON BED 
JP and Sandy, both naked, are on the bed making love.  Well, maybe Sandy's making love.  JP's having sex. 
It is a selfish, phallocentric scene, concentrating on JP's concern only for his own gratification.  It may be an erotic sight, but it's not a pretty one. 
JP is on top.  He has hold of both Sandy's wrists in one of his hands and his body is working away rhythmically.  He is half- upright, looking down at her.  No kissing. 
CLOSE on JP's face - his eyes open, staring down at Sandy. 
CLOSE on Sandy's face - her eyes closed, half in pleasure, half in shame. 
SMASH-CUT TO PILLAR 
CLOSE on Pinhead's face.  Suddenly, horribly, the monster's eyes fly open and his frozen face stares down at the lovers.  A BLUE LIGHT seems to pulse from within the pillar, lending color to Pinhead's face. 
Pinhead continues to watch the love-making until it comes to a climax. 
ANGLE ON JP 
Still staring at the ceiling, JP pulls a pained face - like he's heard this embarrassing shit a hundred times. 
SANDY Don't you think? 
JP Mmn-hmnn. 
Sandy turns to look at JP, troubled by his unresponsiveness. 
SANDY Do you mind me talking about your stuff? 
JP Unh-unh. 
A beat.  Sandy stares at JP.  JP stares at the ceiling. 
SANDY If it bothers you, just say so. 
JP sighs. 
JP It doesn't bother me.  I'm just not interested. 
SANDY Oh.  Like I'm not an interesting person. 
JP blows a smoke ring at the ceiling. 
Sandy walks back across the room to stand at the foot of the bed.  ( And yes, fright fans, this does put her in front of the pillar - though hopefully the blossoming argument will distract audience attention.) 
SANDY But you gave me a rose ... 
JP And tomorrow I'll give one to somebody else.  Get dressed.  Get out. 
SANDY You shit.  Who do you think you are? 
JP I'm JP Monroe, you stupid little bitch. Now get the fuck out of my life. 
SANDY You ... I can't fucking believe you, you bastard!  You get me in here ... 
JP Right.  Like you were hog-tied or something. 
SANDY Look at you!  You think you're some God damn Prince or something.  With your shitty little Kingdom out there and all this ugly shi .... 
Sandy is waving her arms to illustrate her point and, halfway through her last line, has turned to indicate the pillar. 
Suddenly - BAM! BIG SCARE MOMENT! - two blackened arms fly out from the center of the pillar and grab Sandy's gesturing arms. 
The BLUE LIGHT burns from within, illuminating Pinhead's face as his eyes open, filled with demonic glee and hunger. 
An impossible WIND begins to whistle through the room, as if an echoed glimpse of a storm in Hell. 
Sandy screams in mortal terror. 
JP jumps from the bed, cigarette falling to the floor.  He backs away to the opposite wall, face shocked, scared shitless. 
JP Jesus Christ! 
Pinhead smiles sardonically. 
PINHEAD Not quite. 
Pinhead's arms pull Sandy tight against the pillar and his face, stifling her scream. 
JP flattened against the far wall, watches in horror as Sandy, held tight against the pillar, suffers a horrible death: 
Sandy's life-force is sucked from her.  Drawn into the pillar. Into Pinhead. 
It is a matter of seconds only but, in those few seconds - 
Her body begins to collapse in on itself, turning grey and lifeless.  It is made worse by the fact that until the very end Sandy keeps struggling, writhing in the grasp of the monster. 
The wind keeps blowing through the room. 
Finally, a dry lifeless husk, she is dropped to the floor. 
The Blue Light fades from within the pillar. The wind disappears. 
A massive BLAST resounds around the room but that's about it; the 30 ott six is absorbed magically into the pillar. 
PINHEAD Thank you.  Now, shall we talk sensibly? 
JP lets the useless gun fall from his hand. 
PINHEAD Don't flee from yourself.  If you have a quality, let it define you.  Cultivate it.  It is you.  By helping me, you will help yourse... 
JP What!?  What are you talking about?  Why should I help you? 
PINHEAD Because you want to.  You've always wanted to.  Look at your pictures.  Look at your sculptures.  Look at those tawdry representations and then ... Imagine.  Imagine a world of the body as canvas.  The body as clay.  Your will and mine as the brush and the knife. Oh, I have such sights to show you. 
It's working.  JP's eyes are glittering with excited interest. 
JP What are you? 
PINHEAD A dark star rising.  I was bound to another's system by a soul I once possessed.  A friend relieved me of that inconvenience.  Now I'm free.  Born again of Blood and Desire. 
JP Hey, that's what makes the world go round. 
Pinhead raises an amused eyebrow at JP's little joke. 
PINHEAD You see, we're not so dissimilar. 
JP But how in God's name ... 
PINHEAD God?  My God was diamond and black light.  And I was his Dark Pope.  All that is changed.  A terrible beauty is born.  With a place at my right hand for a man of your tastes. 
JP cruises the room, contemplating this. 
JP How do we start? 
PINHEAD It has already begun. 
INT.   TV STATION, EDITING SUITE   NIGHT 
ANGLE ON MONITORS 
Many screens fill the frame, all of them crackling with snow. 
CUT TO WIDE 
Joey is alone at the control desk.  She has a video tape in her hand and feeds it into the master machine. 
She looks up at the still-ghosting monitors and then presses a few buttons on the console. 
The snow is replaced by blackness on every monitor with a time code ticking away at the bottom of each screen. 
JOEY (softly) Alright ... Let's see what we got here. 
The blackness on the monitors gives way to multiple images of KIRSTY, the girl in the picture in the antique store. 
The video image is primitive, shot with a non-professional camcorder, and is a simple medium long-shot of Kirsty, dressed in a simple white smock, sitting in a hospital room. 
Kirsty addresses the camera directly, though occasionally looks up to the side as if speaking to an unseen doctor. 
INTERCUT through Kirsty's monologue between: A single monitor image, the wall of monitors, and the watching and listening Joey. 
KIRSTY (on video) I don't know what the Box is.  But I know what it does.  I ...    (looks up to side)     I've said all this before. Do you ...    (blinks, nods, as if listening.  Looks back to camera)  I saw it open.  I opened it.  I saw what came out.  I don't know what else to call them.  Demons.  Demons live in the box. Or come through the box from somewhere else.  It's a gateway to Hell.  Or the South Bronx.     (smiles ruefully at her own joke.  Looks up to side as if chastised for kidding around.  Nods. Continues)     I know you don't believe me.  I know what it sounds like.  But what else ... Jesus, talk to Ronson, talk to the other cops.  They saw the house.  They saw my ... my father ... 
Kirsty breaks down into sobs. 
QUICK-CUT TO JOEY 
- whose expression shows distressed sympathy.  She too has lost her father. 
ANGLE ON MONITORS 
The video image breaks up into white noise and then comes back in, as if the camcorder was turned off for a few moments. 
When the image returns, Kirsty is smoking a cigarette to help calm her. 
KIRSTY (on video) Solving the puzzle means opening the box.  Opening the box means opening doors.  And there are some doors you don't want to open.  And it may be metaphorical to you, Doctor, but you haven't had some blue-faced bastard come at you with hooks and chains.  It isn't delusion, it isn't psychosis.  It's reality.  It's reality.     (Pause. Long drag on the cigarette?)   Maybe not this reality ... but there are others. I've seen them. 
Joey's face shows horrified fascination at Kirsty's story. There is a conviction in the telling which is working on Joey. 
TERRI I miss you too. 
JP That's so good to hear, sweetheart.  It really is. You know, I .. are you alone? 
TERRI Yes. 
JP Good ... Good ... Look, why don't you come over?  You know, nothing heavy, little drink maybe, little talk.  Just see how we both feel? 
TERRI Oh, I don't ... 
JP C'mon.  It'll be great. 
INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT 
CLOSE on Terri's face - we can almost see her summon the will- power to refuse. 
TERRI No!  No.  I can't.  I just can't. 
She slams the phone down quickly before he can persuade her. She takes a couple of deep breaths and walks away from the phone. 
TERRI Shit.  Shit.  Shit.  Shit.  Shit. 
She looks around.  She looks at the books.  She looks at the videos.  She looks at the table.  She looks back at the phone. 
ANGLE ON PHONE 
- as it RINGS again. 
TERRI 
- shakes her head and turns the ansafone on. 
After two rings, the machine responds. 
JOEY (ansafone message) Hi.  You've reached Joanne Summerskill. In spirit at least.  Please leave a message.  Thanks. 
WOMAN (on phone) Hello.  Ms. Summerskill, this is Sharon Leech again from K-YZY in Monterey. Sorry to call so late but I was wondering if you got my other message? Look, I probably shouldn't say this on tape but what the hell ... there's a job here if you want it.  Late-night news reader.  We think you'd be marvelous .. 
The machine BEEPS and cuts her off, leaving the message light FLASHING. 
CLOSE on Terri's face - disappointed and sad. 
INT.   TV STATION, EDITING SUITE   NIGHT 
Joey is still at the desk watching the bank of monitors. 
As Kirsty speaks, INTERCUT between Joey and the monitors. 
KIRSTY (Looks to side)  Again?  (Shrugs. Looks back at camera)  The box.  I don't know where it came from.  I don't know who made it or why.  I only know what it does.  It hurts.  It hurts.   (Looks off to side as if listening.)  How?  (Looks back)  I don't know.  It kind of opens itself.  Your fingers move.  You learn. It wants to open, that's the thing.  And it knows when you want to open it.  And it helps.  And it opens.  And then they come.  The Cenobites.  The demons. 
ANGLE ON WALL OF MONITORS 
Multiple images of Kirsty speaking those last few lines. 
Suddenly, one - and only one - of the monitors suffers a WHITE NOISE WIPE-OUT. 
Joey glances up at the one ghosting monitor, puzzled - and then freezes in shock. 
ANGLE ON MONITORS 
- as, on the one monitor, a new image suddenly appears: 
A hazy, black-and-white image (very grainy, like early experimental TV images) of a thirtysomething man in early twentieth century military uniform. 
The man - ELLIOTT - stares directly out of the monitor screen and, just as Kirsty finishes her last line ("The cenobites. The demons."), he speaks (in an English accent). 
ELLIOTT (on monitor) She's telling the truth, Joey. 
Another BURST of WHITE NOISE and the image is gone. 
Kirsty is back on that monitor, just like all the others. 
KIRSTY Look, you can have me tell this ... 
Joey remains staring at the haunted monitor, numb with shock. What the hell is going on? 
Thick green jungle foliage obscures the view of a POV camera. 
The sounds of confused battle are heard OFF; helicopters, gun- fire, distant explosions, screams of the dying and the wounded 
Leaves and branches SMACK against the frame as the unseen dreamer rushes confusedly through the dense forest. 
The voices of the Soldiers - distant, echoed, repeated - are heard over the roar of battle. 
SOLDIER 1 (off) He's going.  He's going.  He's going ... 
SOLDIER 2 (off) We're losing him.  We're losing him. We're losing him ... 
The sound of their voices seems to prompt the POV camera to more furious endeavor. 
It turns rapidly left and right, forcing its way through the greenery until suddenly, with one last push through foliage thick enough to be a single bush, the view changes completely. 
EXT.  FLANDERS FIELD (WW I)   DAY      (JOEY'S DREAM) 
The POV camera (Joey) walks out into another battlefield, one of a different character. 
It appears to be early morning.  The skies are grey and overcast.  In the distance plumes of black smoke spiral upward 
No jungle, no trees or grass.  The ground is baked mud disfigured with deep trenches, re-inforced by wooden slats. 
The atmosphere is post-conflict; guns are silent, there are no cries or sound of machinery. 
Scattered around are corpses of many khaki-clad soldiers. 
Nothing moves.  No birds sing.  It is a horrible, desolate image from the bloody pages of history.  The fields of Flanders in World War One. 
A noise begins to be heard OFF.  A low angry BUZZING. 
ANGLE ON DEAD SOLDIER 
A cloud of buzzing flies are feeding on the flesh of his poor dead face. 
JOEY (off) Noooooooooo ....... 
The buzzing and Joey's anguished cry both CONTINUE OVER as we 
CUT TO 
INT.   JOEY'S BEDROOM   NIGHT 
Joey sitting up in bed, eyes wide, still screaming. 
JOEY Nooooooooooo! 
The cry cuts off abruptly as Joey realizes where she is. 
She catches her breath and then freezes as she realizes that the buzzing sound from her dream is present in her bedroom. Are the flies still feeding?  She glances around her room. 
ANGLE ON BEDROOM TV - JOEY'S POV 
Her TV set is on.  The buzzing sound comes from white noise. 
Joey is puzzled and scared. 
JOEY Is somebody here?  Is somebody here!? Terri ... ? 
She half gets out of bed and then stops, transfixed, as the TV screen's white noise is replaced by an image. 
ANGLE ON TV 
As in the editing suite, the image is grainy black-and-white. 
The buzzing continues, now joined by HISSING and WHISTLING that fades in and out as if unseen hands are trying to tune into an impossibly distant station. 
Somewhere in the sound-montage we can almost hear GHOSTLY VOICES whispering; "Joey, Joey, Joey ... " 
On the screen, an English Officer - Elliott - is sitting cross- legged on the floor of a Quonset hut. 
On the floor in front of him is something at which he stares - something that the image is not sharp enough to show. 
WIDER ANGLE - JOEY AND TV 
TERRI No.  It isn't ... she wouldn't ... It's like I must have done something wrong, you know?  Freaked her out.  Just fucked up something good again. 
JP Hey, you didn't fuck it up with me.  You know that.  It was my fault, babe, it really was.  And you know I'm sorry. And I'm sorry to see you upset now.  I hate to see you in pain like this. 
Terri looks up at him, her eyes vulnerable, on the verge of tears.  She really wants to believe that he's being a nice guy. 
TERRI Really? 
JP Yes!  God, yes.  I ... I just want to hug you.  To hold you.  To tell you it's alright. 
God, the bastard's good at this.  Terri breaks into small sobs and holds her arms out for him. 
JP No.  No, sweetheart, you come to me. It's not fair.  I come over there.  You know.  We're on the bed.  I just ... 'cos you know how much you excite me. God, just looking at you.  You're so beautiful.  I come over there and I'd just want to touch you.  Feel you.  Kiss you.  And that isn't what this is about. C'mon, babe, come to daddy.  Let me make it better. 
Terri wipes her eyes, gives a small shy smile and stands up. 
She's walking toward JP.  And the pillar. 
JP puts a hand out.  He smiles.  Re-assuring.  Loving. 
Terri walks.  Vulnerable.  So in need of reassurance and love. 
WIDER ANGLE -JP, TERRI, PILLAR 
She's getting closer ... closer ... closer ... 
CLOSE ANGLE ON JP 
- as he blows it.  A sidelong glance at the pillar?  A sudden naked hunger in the smiling eyes?  A single bead of sweat? Some tiny little thing that takes the lid off his game. 
Terri stops dead.  She doesn't know what's happening but suddenly this doesn't feel right. 
TERRI No ... Wait a ... 
EVERYTHING ERUPTS! 
JP, smiling mask wiped off, leaps at Terri. 
Terri flings herself backward, screaming in shock and fear. 
Pinhead: suddenly animate and furious; eyes wide open, face contorted in frustrated rage, black arms clawing at the air. 
PINHEAD Bring her to me, boy! 
A furious, confused scene of tension and struggle. 
JP has hold of Terri, trying to drag her to the monster. 
Terri fights back, screaming her disbelief and struggling and kicking against him.  They are perilously close to the pillar. 
Pinhead is furious - roaring, tearing at the pillar with his hands as if trying to physically rip himself. free of it. 
Slowly, JP's size and strength is telling; Terri is being dragged nearer and nearer to the demon. 
At the last possible second - when it seems it's all over, when Pinhead's snatching fingers are centimeters from Terri's flesh - Terri snatches up a heavy ornament from a shelf by the pillar and smashes JP right across the head with it. 
JP collapses semi-conscious at the foot of the pillar. 
Terri throws herself back from the monster's grabbing arms. 
Pinhead snarls in frustration, hands clenched in fists of rage. 
WIDER ANGLE 
Terri - safely feet away from the pillar - stands, shaking and breathless, eyes wide in horror and shock as she stares at this creature from nightmare. 
And suddenly Pinhead changes tack; he slides from the roaring beast of a moment before to his more usual persona - the glib, articulate Black Pope of Hell. 
PINHEAD Wait!  Why run?  Where to?  Do you know where you are? 
TERRI I'm ... I'm ... 
PINHEAD You're at the door of dreams.  And you can open it. 
TERRI What are you talking about? 
There is no-one in the room. 
The TV set is still dead. 
But ... the bedroom door is open a crack and a very strange DIM ORANGE LIGHT is creeping in from the main room.  And that seems to be from where the music is coming. 
ANGLE ON JOEY 
- as she gets out of bed. 
She's cautious and careful, moving slowly and quietly as she wraps a robe around herself and moves to the door. 
The music continues to play. 
She opens the door slowly and walks through. 
INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT 
This room too is empty. 
The music is louder and the soft warm pulse of the orange light is more distinct, bathing the walls and the furniture. 
VARIOUS ANGLES - JOEY'S POV 
- as Joey tries to locate the source of the music and the light; 
The sofa. 
The bookshelfs. 
The TV - with the still and inactive Box. 
The closed drapes over the big picture window. 
Finally - 
ANGLE ON CLOSET DOOR 
Both the music and the light seem to be centered on the closet door across the room.  They're both coming from behind it. 
Joey approaches the closet, still tense, still careful.  She opens the closet door and looks in. 
The closet is where Joey has stored her past.  But she's stored it neatly. 
Boxed and piled on shelves are old magazines, old greetings cards, old photographs, old soft-toys, college diplomas, clippings from small-town newspapers ("Death of a Local Hero: Tommy Summerskill lost in Vietnam", "Joanne Summerskill Class Valedictorian: looks to career in Media") etc etc. 
Also in there, stuffed away at the top of the closet, is an old radio - a big old wood-and-wire-grille valve driven beauty from which the lilting music is coming. 
At some stage in its life, part of its casing was smashed away and the pulsing orange light is its flickering vacuum tubes. 
It's an old mains-powered model and its mains cord dangles off the shelf of the closet.  This radio isn't plugged into anything except the paranormal. 
CLOSE on Joey; staring at this broadcast from the beyond. 
JOEY How .... ? 
Joey reaches up and brings the radio down from the shelf and out into the main room.  She sets it down on the coffee table in front of the sofa. 
DIFFERENT ANGLE 
Formal, classical framing from a low angle - Joey and radio in foreground, big picture window and its closed drapes in the background. 
Joey kneels up in front of the table. 
She stares at the radio with the same kind of trapped fascination with which we have seen characters in the previous HELLRAISER movies stare at the Box. 
Her fingers are drawn to the tuning dial as if to a puzzle. She plays with the dial, moving through various "stations". 
Joey's face is open with expectation as she moves through them, as if she is waiting for clues.  Or instructions. 
The music gives way to various VOICES; 
An Indian voice giving some kind of commentary.  The English words "BBC" and "World Service" are heard amidst the punjabi. 
(Joey turns the dial) 
A CREAK is heard OFF.  Joey looks up. 
JOEY'S POV 
At the far end of the Quonset Hut, behind Elliott, a door has creaked open an inch or two. 
Joey looks from the door back to the frozen Elliott. 
JOEY Thanks.  I think. 
Joey crosses to the door and opens it.  She walks through. 
EXT.   FLANDERS FIELD   DAY 
Joey walks out onto the World War One battlefield of her most recent dream.  She stands there - an incongruous vulnerable figure in her nightdress and robe - amidst the corpses, the trenches, and the distant plumes of smoke. 
JOEY What's going on?  Is this a dream? 
She glances back at the door of the hut she has just left. 
JOEY'S POV - THROUGH HUT DOOR 
Within the hut, the frozen Elliott still sits. 
ANGLE ON JOEY 
- as she turns from looking into the hut and gasps, her eyes wide in shock. 
Standing on a hillock, framed against the grey battlefield skies, is Elliott. 
Joey walks toward him. 
Elliott stands calmly and smiles at Joey. 
ELLIOTT Joey.  How kind of you to come. 
A beat.  Joey (and the audience) take in Elliott's impossible presence, as she and he stand amidst the corpse-strewn field. 
JOEY Wait ... wait.  You ... you have to help me.  I don't understand.  Am I dreaming this? 
ELLIOTT You have to help me.  You will understand.  And no, you're not dreaming.  Do you know where we are? 
JOEY It's ... I don't know.  First World War, right? 
ELLIOTT Correct.  The fields of France.  And many dead flowers ... Oh.  Forgive me. My name was Spenser.  Elliott Spenser. Captain. 
He extends his hand. 
Joey - slowly and nervously - puts her hand out to shake his. 
JOEY Joey Summerskill. 
Elliott smiles understandingly as he releases her hand. 
ELLIOTT Well done.  Brave girl.  You've probably never shaken hands with a ghost before, am I right? 
JOEY Captain Spenser.  Elliott.  I ... What the Hell is going on? 
ELLIOTT Hell is precisely what is going on, Joey.  And we have to stop it.  I because of a special obligation, you because you're the only person who can help. And because you know what is right, and just, and true.  Will you walk with me a while? 
He gestures with his hand and they begin to walk. 
ELLIOTT There were days in this war, days right on top of each other, when the newly dead were numbered in the tens of thousands.  They called it the war to end all wars.  Though it didn't.  You know that.  There were more wars.  More dead.  Your father's war.  Your dream search for your father led you here.  To me.  Joey, we need to talk. 
Elliott does nothing dramatic - he doesn't clap his hands or snap his fingers - but somehow, magically, he and Joey, without moving or changing position are back in the Quonset hut. 
INT.   QUONSET HUT 
The frozen Elliott is still sitting on the floor before the box.  The mobile Elliott gestures at his frozen self as he speaks to the bemused Joey. 
ELLIOTT The war pulled poetry out of some of us. Others it affected differently.  This is me a few years later.  We're in India, by the way, and it's 1921.  I was like many survivors. Lost souls with nothing left to believe in but gratification. We'd seen God fail, you see.  So many dead.  For us God, too, fell at Flanders.  We adjusted to the loss.  And if we mourned, we mourned in silence. Thousands drank themselves to death. Others went further.  I went further.  I thought I was a lost soul.  But, until this frozen moment, I didn't even know what the phrase meant. 
JOEY And what is ... this frozen moment? 
ELLIOTT The cusp of my life.  What I was, what I am, what I will be ... past, present, future, all bound here at this timeless moment of decision.  I was an explorer of forbidden vices and pleasures. Opening the Box was my final act of exploration, of discovery. 
Pinhead surveys the scene before him and the terrified and awe- struck crowd look back at him. 
For the most part, the crowd are stunned into silence but there are a few murmurs from them; 
CROWD (ad-lib) Oh My God ... 
Jesus Christ! 
What the FUCK ... ?! 
No no no no no no no .... 
Pinhead scans the club. 
He looks at the terrified humans.  The cruelly beautiful artworks.  The humans.  The artworks.  The humans.  The artworks. 
A small smile forms on his face.  He's just had an entertaining idea. 
INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT 
The view through the big picture window is entirely normal again; the cityscape by night. 
Suddenly, Joey seems to appear behind the glass - translucent, like a reflection - and comes through the window into her apartment, "solidifying" as she steps in. 
Her hands are at her head and she staggers forward a few steps. It's as if the enormity of her trip thru realities has just hit her.  She falls forward onto the floor of her room, unconscious. 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN 
- as the ringing of a phone grows in volume. 
Joey raises her head, bleary-eyed, and glances round the room trying to locate the source of the noise that has woken her. 
She crawls the few feet to the phone and snatches at it.  The hand-set falls and she has to gather it up from the floor. Maneuvering herself into a sitting position, she speaks. 
JOEY Hello? 
DOC (on phone) You wanted a story.  You got it.  Turn on the TV now.  And then get your ass down here ... (click) ... 
JOEY Doc?  ...  Doc ... Hello? 
She puts the phone down and rushes across to turn on the TV. 
TV IMAGE/DOC'S SHOULDERCAM: 
EXT.   CITY STREETS, OUTSIDE CLUB   NIGHT 
The images are confusing, with the rapid pans and temporary loss of focus or light that characterise raw news footage. 
Doc's Camera weaves amongst a mass of uniformed people, trying to catch clear pictures of-what's been happening. 
Sirens howl, red emergency lights flash. 
It becomes clear we are looking at the aftermath of a disaster. Or a massacre. 
The club building looks like a bomb hit it.  Smoke and debris litter the street.  So do corpses. 
Some of the dead bodies are simply dead bodies.  Others - glimpsed fleetingly and tantalizingly as Doc is jostled and bustled - seem to be mutilated decoratively.  In fact they bear hideous similarities to the artworks that used to grace the club: armless torsos wrapped in barbed wire; flayed limbs with machinery inside instead of muscle. 
DOC (off) Judas Priest!  Will you look at ... 
Suddenly, the images are blocked by a very BURLY COP pushing at the camera and talking directly into it. 
BURLY COP Move it!  Now!  No pictures! 
DOC (off) W-QQY.  I ... 
BURLY COP I don't give a shit!  Move it or lose it! 
INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT 
CLOSE on Joey's face as she reacts in horror to what she is seeing.    (INTERCUT with Doc's footage) 
JOEY Oh my God, it's happening ... 
Standing in the center of the alley at its far end, light coming from behind him so that he is unclear, is Pinhead. 
ELDER COP (Calm. Expecting obedience) You, fuckoff. 
He turns back to Eddie. 
ELDER COP Get your head outta your stinkin' ass and look at me, boy. 
YOUNGER COP (still looking down alley) Hey ... 
Pinhead is moving up the alley towards the action. 
Elder Cop shoves Eddie away. 
ELDER COP (to Eddie) Get lost. 
Eddie doesn't waste time with questions.  He's gone. 
The Cops straighten up and start walking to meet Pinhead. 
Pinhead advances- still in the shadows, still just a black shape moving forward. 
ELDER COP I have the distinct impression I told you to fuckoff.  Unless I miss my guess, you've just disobeyed an officer of the law. 
Pinhead emerges into the (dim) light in the alley. 
PINHEAD I am the Law. 
Cops halt in shock at this awesome presence, both of them instinctively drawing their guns.  And both instinctively beginning to back up. 
ELDER COP You're one butt-ugly son of a bitch and you're about to dead meat. 
PINHEAD I am the son of eternal night and you are about to discover pain has no ending. 
Well, that's enough of a direct threat for any officer of the law.  Both cops fire their guns.  Once.  Twice.  Three times. 
Pinhead keeps walking.  He spits out the bullets that his body has absorbed. 
YOUNGER COP Oh shh ... 
They empty their guns - useless - and then they turn and run down the alley.  And then stop short.  There is a sudden wall of impenetrable blackness in front of them as if the world simply comes to a stop four yards from their feet. 
The cops turn, terrified, to look back.  Instinctively, they spread apart - each walking near to opposite walls. 
The younger cop is standing beneath a fire escape.  He glances up as if he might be able to jump up to safety.  No.  Too high. 
Pinhead's head flicks upward as if in a gesture of command. 
Suddenly, the Fire escape ladder zooms downward with impossible speed and force. 
The Younger Cop doesn't even have time to scream.  The ladder smashes right through his body, impaling him. 
His corpse stands there twitching and shuddering, wrapped around the ladder. 
Elder Cop stares in terror at his partner's fate. 
ELDER COP No.  No.  No.  No.  No.  No. 
Pinhead stands very still and speaks very calmly. 
PINHEAD Curb your tongue. 
The Elder Cop's body starts to move involuntarily.  His movements are jerky and spasmodic as if his mind is trying to fight what his body is trying to do. 
Pinhead's head moves through various positions.  His face is calm, showing no particular pleasure at what he is doing but only a fascinated concentration as if experimenting with new- found skills. 
The Elder Copts shaking puppet-like hands draw his handcuffs from his belt. 
His eyes show terror.  Everything else is beyond his control. 
He raises the cuffs to head level and springs one of them open. 
His mouth suddenly jerks open and his tongue protrudes. 
The fear in his eyes increases. 
Pinhead presses the worm against his palm and it instantly burrows through his flesh pulling its pin-tail behind it.  He repeats the operation with the other palm. 
He turns his palms out to show the Priest in a blasphemous parody of Christ's stigmata. 
PINHEAD I am the Way. 
The Priest rushes up to the altar to Pinhead. 
PRIEST You'll burn in Hell for this! 
The Priest reaches him.  Pinhead's hand is on his throat instantly, squeezing silence from him. 
PINHEAD Burn?  What a limited imagination. 
The choking Priest kicks and struggles as Pinhead forces him to his knees before him. 
Pinhead towers over the Priest.  He smiles. 
With his free hand he gouges out a piece of his own flesh from the decorative wounds on his chest.  He holds the bloody piece of meat up. 
PINHEAD This is my body.  This is my blood. Happy are they who come to my supper. 
Pinhead shoves the disgusting lump of blue and bloody flesh into the Priest's aghast mouth. 
Pinhead flings the priest away from him. 
The Priest lands heavily on the floor. 
Pinhead walks forward, smashing the altar aside. 
All the candles flicker as if an unheard wind is blowing through the Church. 
Pinhead walks up the aisle toward the semi-conscious Priest. 
And all the candles go out. 
BLACKNESS 
INT/EXT   JOEY'S CAR/CITY STREETS   NIGHT 
Joey is driving again.  And this time she's not even stopping at red lights.  She steams across junctions, leaving cars swerving and horns honking in her wake. 
Something catches her eye and she throws a glance to her side. 
JOEY (appalled) Oh God ... 
JOEY'S (MOVING) POV 
Up a side street, atop a hill, is the Inner-city Church.  It's on fire. 
Joey swings the car up the hill. 
SMASH-CUT TO: 
Joey getting out of the car nearer the burning church.  Off to her side is a smaller building, the Church Hall. 
Joey shakes her head at the desecration.  She has no doubt who's responsible. 
JOEY Having fun en route, you bastard. 
Suddenly, a CREAKING noise from behind her. 
Joey freezes in terror then slowly - very slowly - turns round. 
JOEY'S POV - SHOCK REVEAL 
The Priest - now mercifully dead - is crucified against the side wall of the smaller building.  Pinhead's nails protrude from his palms and his ankles. 
EXT   CITY STREETS   NIGHT 
A SERIES of QUICK CUTS of Joey's car tearing through the darkness heading back to her apartment. 
INT.   CORRIDOR, JOEY'S APT. BLDG.   NIGHT 
Joey rushes down the corridor to her apartment door, hurriedly turns the lock and rushes in. 
Joey runs around then to the far wall - just in time because now the pyrotechnics start. 
Elliott tightens his grip and (with a nice series of INTERCUT CLOSE-UPS of these two alternative selves) the life-forces of Elliott and Pinhead begin to erupt. 
ELECTRIC BLUE LIGHT begins to play over both their bodies. It's apparently agonizing, both figures arching with the pain, both faces grimacing. 
Joey watches, wincing in sympathetic agony. 
JOEY Elliott!  No!  What about you?!  Where will you be?! 
Elliott grunts his answer through the agony. 
ELLIOTT Back with the damned.  No more hope of heaven.  But I drag this monster back with me! 
PINHEAD You stupid interfering foo ... AAAAAH! 
VARIOUS ANGLES ON THE THREE SELVES - PINHEAD, ELLIOTT, AND THE SEATED OFFICER 
The essences of Pinhead and Elliott - drawn from their bodies as sweeping, glowing, spitting arcs of BLUE LIGHT - crackle in the air of the Hut like a miniature electrical storm ... 
Until they suddenly lock together in one more powerful arc which flies at the body of the seated Officer and disappears inside him in a BLINDING FLASH OF LIGHT. 
And suddenly, as vision returns, there is only the seated officer   (and, at the far end of the room, Joey). 
And, almost as suddenly, the frozen scene comes to life; 
The radio near the camp bed is playing. 
A bead of sweat falls down the Officer's face as he reaches forward to pick up the Box. 
The Officer, apparently completely unaware of Joey's presence, begins to work the Box. 
As the process works through, we INTERCUT CONSTANTLY BETWEEN 
1)  The Officer's hands and the movements of the Box here in the Hut in 1921. 
2)  EXACTLY MATCHING movements of the Box back on the floor of Joey's apartment in 1992.  Moving on its own, linked across the years to its earlier self. 
3)  Joey watching the movements in the Hut. 
JOEY Elliott? ... Elliott? ... You can't hear me, can you?  It's 1921.  I'm not really here ... 
Suddenly, small patterns of BLUE LIGHT arc across the Box, shocking the Officer who drops the Box and then stares in shock and fascination as ... 
On the floor, the box begins to open. 
The Officer kneels up and leans over the Box ... 
And the chains fly!  Shooting up from within and hooking themselves cruelly into the Officer's face and chest. 
CLOSE ON the Officer's face, howling in agony. 
CLOSE ON Joey's face, sobbing in distress.  She throws up her hands to hide the unbearable sight from herself and, when she lowers them, ... 
INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT 
.. she's back in her room. Alone.  Window intact.  Normal view. 
Joey stares around, her face a mix of sadness and relief. 
The mood now is very down, post-cataclysmic, post-adventure. 
Joey takes a deep slow breath and crosses the room toward the kitchen door. 
She crosses the floor without glancing down at it.  Why should she?  Everything's over.  But we notice, even if she doesn't, that the Box is no longer there.  But we hardly have time to register this before ... 
Joey opens the kitchen door. 
JOEY (SCREAMS!!!!) 
Pinhead is framed in the doorway. 
Behind him, instead of her kitchen, is the black space of Hell - like the Torture Rooms in HELLRAISER and HELLBOUND, it is full of shadowy pillars and chains. 
PINHEAD Oh, no kiss of welcome after 70 years? 
