HENRY FOOL 
Written by 
Hal Hartley 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
EXT. JUNK YARD -- DAY 
A garbage truck roars by and... 
Simon Grim hangs from the back of it. He is a shy, skinny and terrified-looking guy around thirty years old. 
The truck rumbles to a halt and Simon climbs down off it to go punch out at the time clock. 
EXT. BEHIND THE WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY 
Moments later. 
He comes walking up a small alley and sits to drink his beer. 
He begins to relax. This is his quality private time. 
Then he hears something and looks up. 
He peeks up over the edge of some junked kitchen appliances and sees... 
Two teenage kids -- Warren and Amy -- smoking crack and having sex. 
Simon looks on, intrigued, as Warren smokes, then... 
WARREN (to Amy) You want some? 
Amy takes the pipe and smokes as he feels her up. 
Simon is fascinated. He drinks and looks on as... 
Amy grins up foolishly at Warren and lowers the pipe. The boy undoes his belt and hikes up the girl's skirt. 
Simon can't believe this. He looks around to see if the coast is clear, then returns just in time to see... 
Warren takes Amy by the waist and enter her. 
The pipe falls from the young girl's hand. 
Warren throws his head back and grinds himself into her. 
Simon's mouth falls open in awe. 
But Amy tosses her head back to the side and sees... 
The amazed garbage man; caught. 
Amy starts screaming insanely. 
Simon runs for his life. 
Amy and Warren throw rocks and bottles at him as they chase him away. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Moments later. 
Simon runs up and throws open the screen door. He stands there in the doorway catching his breath. 
His sister, Fay, is at the kitchen table watching a small portable TV while their mother, Mary, sits a few feet away in the living-room watching another TV tuned to a different channel. 
FAY (to Simon) Where the hell have you been? (to Mary) Mom, come on and eat. 
MARY I'm not hungry. 
FAY (pissed) Then why'd I cook! 
Mary is a manic-depressive, still in her bathrobe at six in the evening. 
MARY I don't know why you cooked! I don't know why you bother! 
Fay holds her head in her hands and sighs. She glares at her brother. 
FAY Sit down and eat, Simon. 
Simon sits at the table and Fay slams down before him a bowl of some sort of gruel. He hesitates, then lifts his spoon. Supper is horrible and he screws up his face in disgust. Fay gives him a sideways glance and he leans back down over the bowl and eats some more. 
Pushing the bowl away gently, he reaches out for the container of milk on the table and drinks straight from it. 
He suddenly jumps back and spits out sour milk all over the table. The container drops to the floor and thick globs of cheese roll out. 
He stands back against the fridge, holding his stomach while... 
Fay and Mary look on in disgust. 
EXT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Moments later. 
Simon crosses the lawn and sits on the curb outside his house. He stares at the ground before him as he holds his stomach and spits, sickened. 
He looks up, though, and sees... 
A little seven-year-old girl -- Pearl age seven -- standing there in the street watching him. 
Simon tries to smile at her. 
But she throws a rock at him and hits him in the head. 
Warren shoves himself between it and Simon. 
Simon freezes. Warren is expressionless. Simon looks back at Amy. She turns away, reaches up under her skirt, jerks down her panties, then leans forward on to the counter. Leering back over her shoulder, she hisses... 
AMY Kiss my ass. 
Simon is nonplussed. 
Gnoc presses a button on the wall that sets... 
A red light flashing above the stockroom door. 
Warren grabs Simon by the neck and drags him over to Amy's bare behind. Amy laughs as Simon is forced to his knees and has his face shoved up right into the crack of her ass. 
But then... Simon throws up all over her. 
Warren falls back in disgust. 
Gnoc covers her face with her hands. 
Amy looks around at herself, realizes, and starts screaming bloody murder. 
Simon falls back on to the floor, clutching his stomach, as Amy staggers around with her vomit-strewn underwear down around her ankles. 
Then Gnoc's father, Mr Deng, appears at the stockroom door holding a shovel and ready to fight. 
WARREN (scared) Oh, shit! 
Mr Deng comes running at them and Warren drags Amy from the store. Simon crawls out of the way as the old man throws open the door to the parking lot and screams at the retreating delinquents... 
MR DENG (in Vietnamese) Stay the hell out of my store, you good-for-nothing punks! 
Having scared them off, he comes back in and starts screaming at Simon. 
MR DENG Look at this! What's going on here? Simon, get up off the floor! Is this beer paid for? 
INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
Later. 
Simon splashes water over his face at the kitchen sink, then watches as Henry unpacks one of his suitcases. It is filled with dozens of old, worn notebooks. Henry stacks them on the mantelpiece over the fireplace; the fire is now crackling and bright. 
Simon steps over and looks at... 
The name tag on the other suitcase: 'Henry Fool'. 
HENRY (off-screen) Centuries ago it had an 'e' at the end. 
Simon looks over and sees... 
Henry's silhouette against the fire. He steps forward into the light and grabs a beer from the six-pack on the floor. He hands one to Simon. 
Simon takes it and stares at it a moment before raising his eyes to Henry. 
SIMON Where do you come from? 
HENRY Nowhere in particular. 
He winks at Simon, then struts around the room, hugely impressed with himself. 
HENRY I go where I will and I do what I must. (stops, drinks) That's why I'm in trouble. I'm sort've what you might call... 'in exile'. 
SIMON Why are you in trouble? 
HENRY (stopping) An honest man is always in trouble, Simon. Remember that. 
Simon comes away from the fire, watching him carefully. Henry stands in a dim corner across the room. 
SIMON How do you know my name? 
Henry pauses, looks aside, drinks, then grins demoniacally. He steps forward and comes face to face with Simon. He lifts his finger and points to... 
Simon's name stitched upon the breast of his work shirt. 
Realizing this, Simon moves off and thinks. 
Henry throws more wood on the fire, glancing back over his shoulder, laughing mischievously. 
SIMON (stopping him) I am not retarded. 
HENRY (pauses) Well... I'll take your word for that. 
SIMON (explaining) People. I mean. They think. You know. Because. 
He tries to articulate what he thinks he feels but winds up gesticulating curiously with his hands. This finally dissolves into a dumb stare into empty space. 
HENRY I see. 
Simon looks at him. Henry stands and grabs a notebook from off the mantelpiece. He tears out a few pages and shoves them in his pocket. He hands the now fresh writing tablet to Simon. 
HENRY Here. Take this. And... 
He searches his pockets and finds a pencil. 
HENRY ...this. Keep them with you at all times. You ever feel like you got something to say and you can't get it out, stop and write it down. OK? 
Simon hesitates, then accepts the gifts. Henry goes for another beer while his new friend studies the dozens of notebooks on the mantelpiece. 
SIMON What are these? 
HENRY (proudly, returning) This? This is my life's work. My memoirs. My 'Confession'. 
SIMON (carefully) What have you done? 
Henry drinks and looks down into the raging fire. 
That evening. 
Simon sits with his evening beer and his new collection of soiled classics. He cracks open a volume of Shakespeare and tries to read. It's an obvious struggle. He puts it aside and lifts up Wordsworth, studying its cover and the texture of the pages. A page flutters away and he climbs down to the edge of a greasy puddle to retrieve it. It's now wet and torn, so he flattens it out on the concrete and tries to fit it back into the book. 
He reads a little, furrowing his brow, then drinks. He bites his lip and tries again. 
He sits back, exhausted and thinks. He hears a twig snap and looks back over his shoulder to see... 
Amy throws a bottle at his head. 
Smash!!!! He falls to the ground, blood streaming down his neck. 
Warren runs over and grabs him by the shirt, lifting him out of the puddle and smacking him in the head. 
Amy runs forward and waits with a rolled-up newspaper which she sets aflame with her lighter. 
Warren punches Simon in the stomach and throws him to the ground, then unzips his fly and pisses on him. 
Amy watches, giggling excitedly, waving the flaming torch. 
Simon crawls away and grabs hold of an old section of fence, while Warren zips up and grabs the fire from Amy. 
Simon pulls himself to his knees, rests his face against the rusted fence and gasps for breath. Warren waves the flaming torch in his face. 
SIMON (weakly, unheard) One of you is gunna lose an eye. 
Amy comes nearer with a can of gasoline. Simon pulls himself to his feet as she splashes him with fuel. Warren is waving the torch deliriously above his head. 
SIMON (screaming) One of you is gunna lose an eye! 
Warren stops. 
Amy steps back and lowers the gas can. 
Simon turns with effort to face them, adjusts his glasses and continues... 
SIMON One of you. I promise. 
Warren watches him blankly, then is burned by the torch which is too hot to handle. He drops it. 
Amy giggles, then stops, excited, but confused. 
Simon grips the rusted chainlink so that it cuts into his hands and stares straight at Warren. 
SIMON You can set me on fire. But one of you is gunna have an eye torn out of your head. I promise. 
Warren is transfixed. He shivers and looks at Amy, who steps back, scared, and puts down the gas can. She turns and walks away. 
Warren looks back at Simon, troubled. 
He hangs there still, glaring at him. 
Further away, Warren rejoins Amy and stares at his hands. Amy looks ill. 
WARREN Fuck. 
AMY Take me home. 
INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY 
Henry is at one of the tables, correcting the spelling in Simon's notebook, when he looks up and sees... 
Simon stumble in, beaten and bruised, dropping his classics to the floor. Henry and Mr Deng rush over to him. 
HENRY (scared) Simon! Who did this to you? 
SIMON I was gunna tear out their eyes. I knew I could do it. 
HENRY Whose eyes? 
SIMON I told them. Like you said. I told them. And I knew I could do it. 
He passes out. Henry looks at Mr Deng. 
MR DENG You should take him home. He smells like a toilet. 
Henry nods, agreeing, then lifts Simon off the floor. Mr Deng holds the door open as Henry carries his friend out into the parking lot. 
Meanwhile, Gnoc gathers up the classics from the floor and places them beside Simon's notebook, where it still sits open on the table. She looks at it, then reads. She lifts it off the table and reads further, immediately and deeply engrossed. 
Mr Deng watches as Henry departs with Simon, then comes back into the store and stops, startled, when he sees... 
Gnoc sitting there, staring off into space, the notebook open in her hands before her, singing quietly. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Twenty minutes later. 
Fay is in the bathroom helping Simon out of his clothes, trying to clean his wounds. 
FAY (calling) Shit, Mom, we gotta get him to a hospital! 
SIMON No! 
FAY Oh, shut up! Turn around. 
Henry is at the kitchen table with Mary. She watches him suspiciously. He lets her. 
MARY This kinda thing has happened before. 
HENRY (standing) It won't happen again. 
She watches him as he walks around the room, browsing. 
MARY How do you know? 
HENRY Don't move! Fuck. There. 
SIMON Are you sure that's right? 
HENRY Yes. Now shut up and lie back. 
Simon does. 
SIMON Is this gunna hurt? 
HENRY Yes. 
He pauses, then leans back. 
HENRY You gunna be alright? 
Simon nods and stares at the ceiling. Henry hands him a towel. 
HENRY Here. Bite on this. 
SIMON (spots blood on it) What's that? 
HENRY (looking) It's blood. From your head. Lie back. Shove that in your mouth and hold on to something. 
Simon bites down on the towel and grips the edge of the bed with his free hand. Henry sits on his legs and gently raises the broken arm. 
Outside the door, Fay bites her knuckles. Further down the hall, Mary listens from her bedroom. 
HENRY Okay. You ready? 
Simon nods. Henry grabs hold of the arm, swallows and braces himself. Simon waits, then Henry tugs the arm straight. 
SIMON Aaagghhh!!!!!!! 
Fay turns and runs down the stairs. Mary backs away into her room and shuts the door. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- NIGHT 
Later that night. 
Henry comes downstairs and stops, tired. Fay is sitting at the table with a bottle of gin and two glasses. She has dolled herself up a little and Henry likes what he sees. He looks her over and she smiles. He sits. She pours. They drink. 
FAY So, do you have, like, you know, a girlfriend, Henry? 
HENRY No. 
They drink again in silence. He lights her cigarette and they watch each other closely. Finally, Fay leans on the table and twirls a strand of her hair between her fingers. 
FAY Do you find me attractive? 
HENRY Yes, I do. 
FAY I look young for my age, don't I? 
HENRY How old are you? 
FAY How old do you think I am? 
HENRY You look young. 
FAY (playfully) How young? 
HENRY I don't know. Young. 
FAY But how... I mean, do I look more like twenty, or... you know, thirty? 
He drinks and studies her. She presents her profile. Finally, he leans back. 
HENRY Thirty. 
Fay jumps up, furious. 
FAY Listen, you geek, after a couple of drinks plenty of people mistake me for eighteen! 
She grabs her bag and storms out of the house. Henry watches her go, then chuckles deviously and splashes himself another drink. 
EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY 
Next morning. 
A thirty-year-old cocktail waitress named Vicky walks up and stops when she sees... 
Warren, sitting back against the side of World of Donuts, smoking a joint and thinking about his future. 
She sighs and approaches. 
VICKY Hey, Warren, are you a registered voter? 
WARREN Bug off, Vicky! 
Unruffled, she hands him a flyer. 
WARREN (reading) 'Saving America From Itself.' What the fuck is this? 
VICKY It's everything you need to know about the upcoming elections and congressman Owen Feer and all the really good things he wants to do for our country. 
He tokes deeply, then... 
WARREN Oh yeah, like what? 
VICKY He wants to win back this country for us Americans, Warren, and restore some kind of cultural-moral standard to our way of life. 
Warren looks over the flyer, then reconsiders Vicky. 
WARREN What time's your kid go off to school? 
SIMON Here? 
HENRY Yeah. 
SIMON To go where? 
HENRY Out there. You know, into the world. Where ever. 
Simon looks off, thinks it over and slowly nods. 
SIMON Yeah, I guess. 
HENRY (reciting) 'Opportunity will step away and make room for a man to pass it by.' 
SIMON Is that from your book? 
HENRY No. I found it in a fortune cookie. 
He pulls the tiny piece of crumpled advice out from one of his pockets and shows it to Simon. 
SIMON Can I read your confession? 
HENRY No. Not yet. Soon. We'll see. 
SIMON Is it almost finished? 
HENRY (puffing himself up) Well, you know, Simon, a piece of work like this, it's... A vocation like ours... You can't put a fence around a man's soul. What I'm trying to achieve, it's... Well, it takes a lifetime really. It's a life's work. (looking around) But soon. Don't worry. I'd appreciate your feedback. I gotta go. See ya. 
He hurries away around the corner. Simon walks back to the house and stops when he sees... 
A plain-clothes policeman, Officer Buñuel, drive up and park before the house. 
Simon spies as the man gets out of his car and knocks on Henry's door. He, of course, gets no answer. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY 
Later that day. 
Simon works on his poem at the kitchen table while Fay flips through a magazine and watches TV. Mary, lying on the couch in her bathrobe, watches her own TV. 
The cacophony is augmented by the rattling dishwasher and the trucks rumbling by on the highway outside. 
Mary looks over at her son, suspicious, and leans off the couch. 
MARY What are you doing there, Simon? 
He carefully finishes writing a word, then looks up and pauses. 
SIMON I'm writing a poem. 
Mary looks at Fay, who looks up from her magazine and considers her brother. Then they break out laughing. 
Simon looks on. 
They laugh and laugh and laugh... 
INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY 
Later. 
Simon is bent over his notebook, consulting a dictionary, hard at work. 
Amy and three kids are grouped around the register, reading the page Henry taped up earlier. As they read, Amy glances anxiously back at Simon. 
They finish reading and stand back. 
PAT So what? It ain't so great. 
CHRIS (to Amy, of Simon) That him? 
Amy nods 'Yes', then leads them towards Simon. 
Simon scribbles away. 
AMY (off) Pardon me, Simon. 
He looks up, sees her, panics and slides away on the seat. Amy looks down and bites her lip, contrite. She sighs. 
AMY Uhm. Look, ah... I'm the editor of the high school newspaper now and... 
PAT One of the editors. 
AMY One of the editors, and we... 
PAT You. 
AMY I... wanted to know if we could print your poem in this month's issue. 
Simon looks around at them all, threatened. 
SIMON Why? 
AMY Because I think it's great. 
PAT I don't. 
CHRIS (to Pat) Who cares what you think? 
TED You're a drag. 
CHRIS A well-known drag. 
AMY (to Simon) Please? 
Simon fumbles with his pencil, ill at ease and self-conscious. Then, to get rid of them, he nods his consent. 
HENRY Shit. Come on, this way. 
And he runs down the street in the opposite direction. Simon hangs back, but then follows... 
INT. CHURCH -- DAY 
Moments later. 
They scramble in and Henry is out of breath. He slumps down into a pew. 
HENRY Keep a look out. Tell me when he's gone. 
Simon does, but then... 
SIMON Henry, what's going on? Who is that guy? What's he want? 
HENRY He wants to help me! He wants to be my friend. 
He pats his pockets, looking for his smokes. Simon looks on, baffled. He comes closer. 
SIMON Help you with what? 
HENRY (suddenly) Shhh! 
He hears something, stands and moves further into the church. Simon hesitates, but then follows. They hear someone crying. Finally, in a pew off to one side in the shadows, they find... 
A young priest named Father Hawkes. He's a wreck. He looks up from his quiet sobbing and sees... 
Henry and Simon standing there looking on with embarrassed distaste. He lowers his head in shame. Henry moves closer and sits beside the distraught priest. 
HENRY What's wrong? 
The priest sighs hopelessly. 
FATHER HAWKES I doubt. 
Henry leans back with a sigh and reaches for his cigarettes. 
HENRY So, you're an honest man. Why beat yourself up about it? 
He offers a cigarette to the priest and he accepts. 
FATHER HAWKES I don't know if there are grounds for faith. Is my vocation relevant? Does it make a difference? 
SIMON A difference in what? 
FATHER HAWKES The world. The way it is. Is this a way to help relieve suffering? 
HENRY Your vocation makes a difference. 
FATHER HAWKES How can you be so sure? 
HENRY Because vocation is the difference. Only someone who really cares doubts. Listen, father, as I was about to tell my friend Simon here, I am, without doubt, the biggest sinner within a hundred miles of this parish. But still, I've gotta stay up late at night to outdo the unending parade of mundane little atrocities I see committed every day right out in the open spaces of this loud and sunlit culture we call home. 
FATHER HAWKES You seem to me to be a sensitive and generous man. 
HENRY I like to think so. But the fact is I appreciate depravity. Nevertheless, I insist your vocation makes a difference, because to hold out anything other than a spiritual yardstick to reality is to be jerking off grandly into the abyss. Listen, have you got any money? Let's go have a drink. 
EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY 
Warren is stopping people on their way in and out of World of Donuts. 
WARREN Excuse me, miss, are you a registered voter? 
MISS Oh God, really I don't know. 
WARREN Well, I'd like to give you some information about Congressman Owen Feer. This man is gunna make a big difference in the lives of every American in the years to come... 
MISS Thanks, sure. I gotta go, thanks. 
A man, Bill, steps up... 
WARREN Pardon me, sir... 
BILL Fuck off! 
WARREN Right. 
Warren stands back and loosens his tie. He looks over at Pearl age seven, who is sitting outside the store. 
WARREN What time's your mother get off work? 
She doesn't respond. He shakes his head and approaches. He sees Fay exit the store... 
WARREN Fay, are you a registered voter? 
FAY (stopping) Don't you dare talk that way to me! And keep your hands off my brother. Pearl, what are you doing here? 
WARREN I'm watchin' her. 
Fay figures it out and approaches. 
FAY You and Vicky get back together? 
WARREN I gotta regular job now and everything. 
She lifts a flyer and reads. 
FAY I saw this retard on TV this morning. 
WARREN He's gunna be the next president of the United States of America, Fay. 
FAY Keep dreamin' Warren. The guy's a Nazi. 
WARREN I like him! 
BUÑUEL I tried, Henry. I really did. 
HENRY So what happened? 
BUÑUEL Henry, with your background... Well, I mean, with your record, they didn't think it'd be right to have you at the neighborhood library. 
HENRY Why not? 
BUÑUEL They thought you'd be a bad influence on the kids. 
Henry sits back, offended. 
BUÑUEL (adds) Or worse. 
HENRY So my word is not enough. My promise worthless. The fact I've served my time nothing but the emblem of my continuing guilt. 
BUÑUEL Apparently. 
Henry leans back and sighs, furious and indignant. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- NIGHT 
Simon comes in, excited and preoccupied, and finds Fay working at the computer. 
FAY What's up? 
SIMON (guiltily) Nothing. 
FAY I'm creating my résumé. This computer's got a program especially for it. I bought some special stationery too. It's scented. Look. 
She shoves a sheath of papers up under his nose and he backs away in disgust. 
FAY It's roses. 
Simon takes his notebooks from a cabinet above the fridge. 
SIMON Can you type my poem into that thing? 
FAY (shocked) That's your poem? 
SIMON Yeah. 
FAY (smokes, then) Simon, Mom's right about you. A poem's supposed to be a small, delicate kinda thing. Kinda feminine. Gentle. Look at this. You've made a fuckin' telephone book. 
He places the notebooks on the table and leaves the house. Fay clears the computer screen, pulls the notebooks closer and gets down to work. 
INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
Moments later. 
Simon arrives with a six-pack and finds Henry sitting in front of the fire, staring into the flames, brooding darkly. 
HENRY I was caught. Yes, I was caught... once. I was caught in flagranti delicto screwing a thirteen-year-old girl named Susan. She was an ugly and mean-spirited kid, but she knew how to play upon my weaknesses which, I admit, are deep and many. 
He drinks, then looks at Simon and adds... 
HENRY You appear shocked. 
SIMON (he is) Sorry. 
Henry stands and leans over the fire. 
HENRY It was a pathetic little conspiracy. A transparently desperate attempt to discredit me and my ideas; to label me a mere pedophile. As if I'd be ashamed of such a thing. As if Socrates himself hadn't been taken out of circulation for corrupting the youth of Athens! 
He comes over and takes a beer. He strides around the room, thinking, reflecting. 
HENRY Seven years. Seven years for one afternoon of blissful transgression. But what of it? Who cares? Prison's not so bad; particularly if one's a sex offender, free from the popular and conventional horror of sodomy. 
Stops, drinks declares... 
HENRY They were not 'lost years'. 
He approaches the notebooks lined up on the mantelpiece. 
HENRY I put them to good use. I began my major work. My opus. 
He glances over at Simon, who sits gripping his beer, watching, rapt. 
HENRY Believe me, Simon, this incident with the girl, prison... It pales to insignificance in the wider context of my career. 
He pauses and swills back some beer. He brightens up, gets excited... 
HENRY Nothing in comparison to the day my 'Confession' is unleashed. (beginning to pace) What an orgy we'll have then, huh? What shouts of outrage from the offended populace, from the sanctimonious purveyors of culture and quality, the righteous defenders of what ever inane and haphazard notion of progress then in vogue. They'll be beside themselves with fiercely reasoned critical analysis. Apoplectic with indignation! 
Drinks sloppily, burps, wipes his mouth with his arm. 
HENRY Their feelings will be hurt. 
He smashes the bottle in the fireplace. 
HENRY Yes, like a mirror which reflects only the inside of the person before it, my 'Confession' will lovingly render humanity's common monstrosity in all of its lurid wide screen glory. 
He grabs a new beer and twists off its cap. 
HENRY Why should I blush or feel shame before the common lot of humanity, anyway, for a few banal and, again I admit, inelegant transgressions? 
He drinks, sighs and sits back down. 
HENRY After all, really, I'm doing civilization a favor. 
Simon sits back in awe. He waits a moment and thinks. Finally he stands and approaches the 'Confession'. He reaches out and drags his hand across the notebooks. 
SIMON When can I read it? 
Henry sits staring into the flames again. He pauses, then... 
Fay and Amy talk tech as... 
HENRY (continues) The thing to do is to send parts of it to different magazines and literary journals first. That kinda thing. You know. Substantiate it. 
AMY (looking up) What's 'scatalogical' mean? 
Henry sips his beer and looks at her. 
HENRY Filth, child. A preoccupation with excrement. Why? 
AMY That's what the Board of Education called Simon's poem, yesterday; scatological. 
Henry reaches across the table and shakes Simon's hand. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY 
The next day. 
Fay is frying something on the stove, a cigarette hangs from her lip. A middle-aged woman with a press ID on her lapel appears at the kitchen door and taps. 
EDNA Hello? 
FAY Yeah, I'm listening. 
EDNA My name is Edna Rodriguez and I write the human interest column for the Queens County Examiner and I was just wondering if I could have a word with Simon Grim? 
Intrigued, Fay steps over to the door with her spatula. She looks Edna over, studies her ID, then steps away and screams upstairs. 
FAY Simon! 
EDNA (startled) Thank you. 
Fay comes back over near the door, waving her spatula. 
FAY You can't talk to him for, you know, too long or anything, 'cause he's gotta, you know... he writes all day. That's all he does. Can you believe that? 
No response. 
FAY (calling again) Hey! Simon! Get down here! 
Simon finally shuffles into the kitchen. 
FAY Simon, this is Edna. She's from the newspaper. 
EDNA (rapid fire) Simon, the Parents' Association at the local high school are calling your poem pornography. The teachers are defending the students' right to exercise their critical tastes and sensibilities. The county agrees with the Church and considers the poem emblematic of modern society's moral disintegration. How do you feel about these controversial reactions to your poem? 
Simon says nothing. He just stares at her. 
FAY (punching him) Simon, answer the woman. 
Simon just looks away, thinks, then wanders back upstairs. Mary passes him on his way out of the kitchen and comes up to Fay and Edna at the door. 
MARY I need my prescription filled. 
FAY Mom, this is Edna. Edna, Mom. 
EDNA Mrs Grim, what was Simon like as a child? 
MARY We all thought he was retarded. 
FAY Everyone did. 
MARY Never said a word. 
FAY He masturbated constantly. 
MARY Had no friends. 
FAY Till he met Henry. 
MARY And that's when all the trouble really started. 
INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Henry is shaving. Simon sits in the kitchen, sorting through rejection letters... 
SIMON (reading) Dear Mr Grim, we here at the magazine consider ourselves and the publication open-minded and cutting edge and have consistently printed the work of the most brilliant and farseeing young talent of the day. Every week we are forced to return writing which we can not for one reason or another publish and include a brief but polite refusal. But this tract you've sent us demands a response as violent as the effect your words have had upon us. Drop dead. Keep your day job. Sincerely, The Editors. 
HENRY De gustibus non disputandum est. 
SIMON (thinking) You can't argue with taste? 
HENRY About taste. You can't argue about taste. God, Simon. 
Simon gives up and pushes the letters away, beaten. 
SIMON The other twenty-five are almost as bad. I don't know why I bother. 
Henry drops his razor and stomps out into the hall. 
HENRY What do you mean you don't know why you bother? You bother because you know the poem is excellent! 
SIMON Do I? 
HENRY Of course you do! 
SIMON I'm not so sure sometimes. 
HENRY Can you sit there, look me straight in the eye, and tell me you don't think this poem is great? That it is not at once a work of great lyrical beauty and ethical depth? That it is not a genuine, highly individual, and profound meditation on the miracle of existence? 
Simon holds the stare, overwhelmed. 
SIMON I, ah... 
HENRY Can you? 
SIMON That was nice what you were playing. 
MARY Yes, it was nice. But it was unremarkable. 
Simon waits. Eventually... 
SIMON Does that matter? 
MARY (looking right at him) Yes. It does. 
She gets up off the couch and goes upstairs. She slams her bedroom door and leaves Simon alone on the couch. He thinks. Then, he gets up and goes into the kitchen. 
He takes the typed manuscript of his poem from the cabinet above the refrigerator and goes to the door. He pauses, clutches the poem and goes out. 
EXT. SUBWAY STATION -- DAY 
Simon waits, clutching his poem to his side, as a train pulls into the station. Excited and determined, he gets on. 
INT. TRAIN -- DAY 
Simon travels to New York City. He finds an envelope on the floor to put the poem in. 
INT. MARY'S ROOM -- DAY 
Mary wakes up and sits on the edge of the bed, feeling regretful about her tone of voice with Simon. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY 
Moments later. 
Mary comes down into the kitchen and listens. 
MARY Simon? 
No answer. She steps over to the cabinet and almost takes down Simon's notebook. But doesn't. She grabs her pills and is about to take them. But then she stops. She puts them down and goes to the cabinet. She takes down Simon's notebooks and sits at the table, pauses, then pulls them closer and begins to read. 
INT. PUBLISHING HOUSE LOBBY -- DAY 
Simon enters a big, posh lobby and checks the registry. 
INT. PUBLISHING HOUSE RECEPTION -- DAY 
Moments later. 
Simon comes out of the elevator and enters the reception area of James Midriff and Sutton Publishing. He walks hesitantly up to the receptionist, a bright and spirited young woman named Laura. 
LAURA Hi, I'll take that. 
Simon steps back defensively. 
LAURA Aren't you the messenger? 
SIMON No. 
LAURA Are you here to fix the plumbing? 
SIMON I'm here to see Mr. Angus James. 
LAURA (amused) Are you? 
SIMON I'm not a plumber. Or a messenger. I was once a garbage man. But now I'm a poet. 
Laura steps back, cocks her head and removes her designer eye-wear. 
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM -- DAY 
Same time. 
Angus is at a big table with two other men, Steve and Barry. 
BARRY The book, as we know it, Angus, will be a thing of the past within the next few years. Novels, articles, newspapers will all be downloaded on to our personal computers anyway. 
ANGUS So you're telling me to get out of the publishing business? 
STEVE No. But we've got to re-invent the publishing business for the electronic age. 
Laura knocks. 
ANGUS Yes, Laura? 
LAURA I'm sorry to disturb you, gentlemen, but... Angus, there's a particularly wound-up young garbage man out here who seems to have written a poem. A long poem. And I recall how, at last month's meeting, you stressed the need for us to be on the look-out for more marginalized verse from unestablished quarters of the American scene. 
ANGUS Did I say that? 
Steve and Barry nod. 
STEVE Yeah. You did. 
BARRY Twice. 
ANGUS Well, OK. Make an appointment, Laura. Sometime next month. 
LAURA Right-e-o. 
And she's gone. 
ANGUS (returning) So, anyway, how is the digital revolution going to help me sell books? 
INT. PUBLISHING HOUSE RECEPTION -- DAY 
Simon looks disappointed. 
SIMON Why can't I see him now? 
LAURA (sincerely) Because he's a very important man and, well, you're not. 
HENRY What? 
AMY Ontologically. 
HENRY O-N-T... Don't you have some kinda spell-check on that thing? 
AMY Never mind. 
HENRY It is impossible for every perfect good to be compatible with every other perfect good. The intense beauty of the mountain must be set off by the fertility of the plain, so to speak. 
He smokes, drinks, paces some more. Amy waits with bated breath, devastated by his obscure profundity. He comes back and sits beside her, reaching his conclusion. 
HENRY The good of freewill must entail real choices for sin. 
She gazes at his profile, in love. 
Henry sits thinking and Amy watches him reverently. She leans over close and whispers in his ear. He turns and looks at her, alarmed. 
HENRY Listen, Amy, back off. I'm on parole. 
AMY You feel the same way. I can tell. I can see it when you look at me. 
Henry jumps up and looks around, paranoid. He keeps his voice down and points at her. 
HENRY Hey! I don't look at you. 
AMY Yes you do. In the street. In the parking lot yesterday. That night on the highway. 
HENRY I look at a lot of people that way. 
Disappointed, Amy turns away and sulks. 
AMY You think I'm stupid. 
Henry sees she's genuinely upset and feels bad. He sits back down and lays his hand on hers. 
HENRY No, as a matter of fact, I think you're a real bright kid and I like that about you. 
AMY (looks up, pouts) You do? 
Now Henry tries to scare her away. He leers at her. 
HENRY I like it so much I've got half a mind to do perverse things to you. Right here. Right now. Things you might just learn to like. 
She just stares at him, blinks, then looks away and tries to imagine this. She takes her laptop and leaves, confused and blushing. 
Henry watches her go and grins, satisfied with himself. 
INT. PUBLISHING HOUSE RECEPTION -- DAY 
Angus throws on his coat and thrusts the poem at Simon as they walk down the hall. 
ANGUS This is really quite unbelievably bad, my friend. I mean, I'm all for experimentation and I've made a career out of a healthy disregard for convention, but... Look, this is profoundly irrelevant material. This is only my opinion. But it's an opinion I value highly. Goodnight, Laura. Call Norton Press. We're still on for tomorrow. 
Simon looks pale as Angus strides towards the elevator. 
ANGUS I've been wrong before as a publisher. But I refuse to admit I've ever been wrong as a reader. You have talent, I admit. You have an innate sense of the musicality of language. A good ear, maybe. But you do nothing significant with it. And this twisted reasoning that poses as... conviction or insight, it's... well, it's embarrassing. 
They reach the elevator and stop. Simon tries to catch his breath. 
ANGUS Why did you bring this thing to me, anyway? 
SIMON (weakly) A friend of mine spoke of you. He said you had a lot of integrity. 
ANGUS Yes, well, of course, I do. But I'm not crazy, am I? Who is this person? Do I know him? 
Simon hesitates, almost decides against it, but then... 
SIMON Henry Fool. 
Angus looks back at him. 
Simon waits. 
Angus looks aside, thinks, then shakes his head. 
ANGUS Never heard of him. 
Simon just looks at him blankly, confused. 
The doors slide open and Angus gets in the elevator. He's gone. Simon sinks into a chair and stares at the carpet. He is so surprised and hurt he gasps for breath. 
His poem slips from his hand and falls to the floor. 
LAURA (off) I remember Henry. 
Simon doesn't register this right away. But then he looks up and over at the receptionist. 
Laura stands and comes around her desk. She pauses, seeing his disappointment, then comes closer and picks up his poem. Handing it to him, she explains... 
LAURA He used to be the janitor here. 
He just stares at her, demolished. 
EXT. SIDEWALK/SUBWAY ENTRANCE -- DAY 
Later. 
Simon dumps his poem in a trash can, pauses, then enters the subway. 
INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY 
Henry is leaning on the counter, flipping through pornographic magazines and smoking. 
MR DENG (off) Henry, put those magazines back. 
Same time. 
Simon comes in, furious and throws open the fridge. He finds nothing to eat or drink. He slams the door, then hears the water running in the bathroom upstairs. He stops and listens. 
The bathroom door; the water heard running steadily. 
Simon turns away then sees... 
The poem notebooks face down on the table. 
He thinks. 
The bathroom door; the water heard running... 
INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Moments later. 
Henry comes into his house, hot and bothered, cradling his six-pack. But he stops, listens, then steps through the kitchen towards the living-room. He stops in the entrance and sees... 
Fay on the floor of the living-room, reading his 'Confession', her mouth hung open in an astonished 'O'. 
He drops his six-pack and... 
She spins around, caught in the act. 
Henry stands in the doorway, pent up, sweating and with perverse things on his mind. 
Fay, her hands palm down on the floor behind her, bites her lip, coquettishly. 
Henry looks her over like she was something good to eat. 
She feels his gaze all over her and twists to one side with a breathless little shudder. 
He steps nearer, stands over her and she looks up at him. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Same time. 
Simon climbs the stairs to the bathroom... 
INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Same time. 
Henry and Fay kissing passionately... 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Same time. 
Simon knocks on the bathroom door. 
INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Same time. 
Henry and Fay groping and shoving one another as they stagger from room to room. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Same time. 
Simon bangs on the bathroom door. 
INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Same time. 
Fay falls to the couch... 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Same time. 
Simon crashes through the door and finds... 
Mary, kneeling over the edge of the tub, her wrists slit and the blood running down the drain, the shower raining down over her back. 
Simon looks on in horror. 
INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Same time. 
Henry tears open his trousers... 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Same time. 
Simon lifts Mary from the bathtub. 
INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Same time. 
Henry and Fay clutch and grind and heave... 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Same time. 
Simon drags his mother from the bathroom and down the stairs. 
FAY He thinks I'm a slut. 
And she starts crying again. Simon awkwardly touches her shoulder, then moves his hand away. Fay pulls herself together, sniffles and goes into the bathroom. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE, AT THE PIANO 
Moments later. 
Simon comes downstairs and finds Henry at the piano. He looks ill and is clutching a nearly empty container of espresso. He is staring sickly at 'the ring'. 
SIMON Henry? 
HENRY Simon, I don't feel so good. 
SIMON What's wrong? 
HENRY I feel all kinda clammy. And damp. 
Simon lifts the coffee container and smells it. 
SIMON How many of these did you have? 
Henry tries to remember. He squints. 
HENRY Seven. 
Simon puts the container down and sits at the table. 
SIMON Henry, we have to talk. 
HENRY Can I use your toilet? 
SIMON Fay's taking a shower. 
Henry grabs his stomach. He presses his hand against his chest, holds his head, then stares at the ring. 
HENRY How much you think I can get for this? 
He looks at Simon. 
SIMON (pauses) Henry, Fay's pregnant. 
Henry looks at him. 
SIMON Fay's pregnant with your child. 
Henry lets this sink in. He stands and the room tilts. White with fear, he clutches at his rumbling gut. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE BATHROOM 
Moments later. 
Fay is in the shower as... 
Henry bursts into the bathroom, tearing at his belt and trousers. She starts screaming and wraps herself in the shower curtain. He drops his pants and throws himself on the toilet just in time to begin shitting his brains out. Fay crouches, terrified and disgusted, in the shower. 
FAY Jesus, Henry! 
Henry sweats and moans as he empties his bowels in a violent and messy blast of noise and foul air. 
Fay covers her face and whimpers sickly. 
Finally, he's done. He hangs with his face out over his knees, sick, exhausted and in shock. Fay wraps herself in a towel and steps out of the shower. She creeps carefully around him and flushes the toilet, growing increasingly concerned. 
FAY Hey, Henry. You OK? 
He is destroyed, staring down at... 
The 'ring' he still holds in his hand. 
Fay sees this, looks at Henry, then kneels and takes it from him. He doesn't resist. She lifts it up and breathlessly admires it. Totally misunderstanding, moved beyond words... 
FAY Oh. Oh, Henry. 
And she throws her arms around him as he sits there, sweating and spent, on the toilet. 
INT. CHURCH -- DAY 
A month later. 
Mr Deng and Buñuel drag Henry, kicking and screaming, into the church foyer. Once inside, he shakes them off and they stand back. He huffs and puffs and tosses the hair back out of his eyes. He paces back and forth like a caged animal, then stops, sees... 
Fay, at the altar, waiting with Simon. She is beautiful. 
Henry calms down, deeply affected. 
Fay smiles down the aisle at him. 
Henry throws back his shoulders, straightens his tie and strides up the aisle. 
Also present at the ceremony are Vicky and Warren. Gnoc is maid of honor. 
INT. CHURCH -- DAY 
Later. 
Henry holds Fay's hand and repeats after Father Hawkes. 
FATHER HAWKES I, Henry, take you, Fay to be my wife. 
HENRY I, Henry, take you, Fay to be my wife. 
FATHER HAWKES And do promise before God and these witnesses... 
HENRY And do promise before God and these witnesses... 
ANGUS Because I think your writing will be tremendously successful. 
SIMON But you don't like it? 
ANGUS It's growing on me. 
SIMON What made you change your mind? 
He points to the fans outside. 
ANGUS Other people's responses. I don't live in a vacuum, you know. Two months ago I didn't have the proof of your poem's appeal. Now I do. 
Simon thinks this over, but says nothing. Angus comes over and lays his hand on his shoulder. 
ANGUS Consider my offer carefully. Get some professional advice. I'll call you tomorrow. 
Simon nods. 
EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY 
Moments later. 
Angus emerges and has to fight his way through the throng of excited adolescents. He reaches his limo and gets in. But he pauses before closing the door and considers the crowd. 
Simon emerges from the store and kids begin screaming and shouting for autographs. Angus shakes his head, impressed. 
INT. CHURCH -- DAY 
Simon consults Father Hawkes. 
FATHER HAWKES What were the terms? 
SIMON A hundred thousand in cash up front. 
FATHER HAWKES Royalties? 
SIMON A seventy/thirty split. 
FATHER HAWKES Well, that could be better. But it is a hundred thousand dollars up front. Guaranteed money. You could use that. 
SIMON So it's a good deal? 
FATHER HAWKES Of course it's good. 
SIMON So I should take it? 
FATHER HAWKES No. Try to get him up to a hundred and fifty thousand. 
EXT. JUNKYARD -- DAY 
Evening. 
Henry stalks along, all fired up. Simon tries his best to keep up with him. 
HENRY I've let myself down, Simon! I've let myself be caught in the bloody maw of banal necessity! How did I get here? How did this happen to me? I'm going to be somebody's father! I need time to think. To write. Time to finish my 'Confession'! I can't work for a living! It's impossible! I tried once. My genius will be wasted trying to make ends meet! 
He collapses extravagantly. 
HENRY This is how great men topple, Simon. Their hearts are in the right place too much of the time! They get sidetracked! Distracted. Oh! How could I have been so careless! 
SIMON Henry, please, let me read the 'Confession'. 
HENRY No. Not now. It's not done. I'm all washed up. I'm finished! 
SIMON Angus James is convinced my poem is going to make him incredibly wealthy. He'll read your book and seriously consider publishing it. If I ask him to. I'm certain. 
Henry glances back at his friend, digesting this. He thinks it over, then... 
HENRY Really? You really think so? 
Having finally got through to him, Simon comes forward, anxious to help Henry. 
SIMON I'll insist he publish the 'Confession'. 
He paces back and forth, thrusting out his chest, for the first time in his life displaying something like pride or arrogance. 
SIMON (adds) Or I won't let him publish my poem. 
Henry sits there watching Simon, impressed with this evidence of increased self-esteem. He realizes the profundity of the gesture. 
HENRY You'd do that? You'd do that for me? 
Simon stares off into the distance. 
SIMON You saved my life. 
Henry is moved. He stands and comes forward. He grabs his friend by the shoulders and turns him around. 
HENRY Do you realize what you're saying? 
SIMON (pausing) I owe you everything. 
Henry steps away, considering, then looks back at Simon and extends his hand. 
HENRY OK. 
Simon smiles. Henry smiles. They shake hands. 
INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Simon enters, comes forward into the room and pauses, looking off at... 
The stack of twelve books that comprise the 'Confession'. 
EXT. HOUSE/BACKYARD -- DAY 
EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY 
Henry and Gnoc load Fay into the van. The van pulls out. 
INT. VAN -- DAY 
Henry drives recklessly. Fay rolls around in the back. 
INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR -- DAY 
Fay is in a wheelchair being rushed down the hall. She is gripping Henry's hand as he runs along beside her. 
INT. HOSPITAL DELIVERY ROOM -- DAY 
Fay gasps and sweats as the Doctor and Nurse prepare her. She is scared. She looks over at... 
Henry, looking in through the window. He looks scared too. 
Fay is sedated by gas. 
Henry is taken away by the Nurse. 
Fay stares up at the ceiling. 
INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT 
Henry is asleep on a row of waiting-room chairs, exhausted. 
Simon comes running up the hall and finds him. It's late and no one is around. He sits down beside Henry and shakes him. 
Henry wakes. 
HENRY Simon? You're here. 
He sits up and Simon sits beside him. 
SIMON What happened? 
HENRY (coughs) It's a boy. 
SIMON And Fay? 
HENRY She's alright. 
Simon sits back, relieved. Then he remembers the rain-soaked shopping bag he has with him. He pulls out a couple of cans of beer and hands one to Henry. 
HENRY Thanks. 
They look around, seasoned conspirators and make sure the coast is clear. Then they pop open the beers and toast. 
They drink. Then... 
HENRY How did it go? 
Simon pauses, scared, then gets up and crosses the room. He looks out of the window and gathers his strength. 
SIMON Listen, Henry, Angus James didn't like your 'Confession'. 
Henry looks at Simon blankly, then blinks and looks away. 
HENRY Ah. I see. Well, what now? 
SIMON What do you mean? 
HENRY Did he suggest changes? 
Silence. Simon comes back and sits again. 
SIMON No. He didn't. 
HENRY I mean, after all, there are things I can do to make it more accessible. 
SIMON Accessible? 
HENRY I can soften up some of the language and make it read easier. Take out some of the more intratextual references and popularize the underlying Sturm und Drang, so to speak. I can change its mode. Make it more of a conventional novel instead. 
Simon just stares at him blankly, then sighs and shakes his head. 
SIMON No. Don't. 
HENRY (laughing) Oh, Simon, don't be such a purist! I appreciate your protectiveness, but the integrity of the work gives it a durability that can sustain such things. 
Simon comes over and lays his hand on Henry's shoulder. 
SIMON No. Really, Henry. Don't. 
HENRY What are you saying; that it doesn't merit revision? 
SIMON I'm saying... Angus James didn't like it. 
He steps away and sits. Henry pauses, then approaches and leans down over him. 
HENRY Well, did you tell him what you think? 
SIMON What I think doesn't matter. 
HENRY Yes, it does. You've got to use your influence with him. 
SIMON I gave it to him to read and he hated it. What more can I do? 
HENRY You can refuse to let him publish your poem. 
SIMON I can't do that. 
HENRY You said you would. 
And he offers the kid his whiskey. 
EXT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Same time. 
Fay comes out of the house and looks for her son. 
FAY Ned! 
She comes out to the street and looks around. 
FAY Ned! 
EXT. VICKY'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Fay comes up looking for Ned and sees... 
Pearl, age fourteen, come out of Vicky's House. She is fourteen years old now. Warren steps out the door and grabs her by the arm. She shakes him off. He slaps her. 
She runs down the steps and glares back at him. 
WARREN (pointing at her) I'm warning you, Pearl! 
Pearl turns defiantly away and walks into the street. 
INT. THE INFERNO -- DAY 
Same time. 
Henry is teaching Ned how to tip a topless dancer. A dancer stands on the bar and stretches her garter as Ned slips a dollar bill in beneath it. 
HENRY That's it. That's it. Perfect! 
Some other guy down the bar is reading a newspaper... 
BILL Hey, Fool, it's about your friend -- what's his name. Your brother-in- law. 
Henry looks over. The guy, Bill, shows him the article. 
HENRY What about him? 
BILL (reading) The controversial and reclusive American poet Simon Grim has been awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. The Swedish Academy, who will confer the award late next week, praised Mr Grim for works of great and difficult striving, for the rendering of the desperate, the ugly and the mundane in a language packed with our shared human frailties... 
HENRY God, they must be hard up for geniuses to pin medals on because, listen, I gotta tell you, when I first met this guy he didn't even know what an iambic pentameter was. 
BILL He's a fraud. 
HENRY Keep a lid on it, Bill, you're outta your league. 
BILL Stir things up so as to stay in the newspapers. That's his racket. 
HENRY He's a great American poet, you dumb fuck! 
BILL Poet, my ass! I could puke all over a piece a loose leaf and be more profound than he is! 
HENRY Come over here and say that and I'll cripple ya in three different ways, you boozed-up Philistine! 
FAY Henry! 
Henry and Ned crouch and quiver -- caught. Fay strides up to the bar and grabs the kid. 
FAY Listen, you degenerate, I've had about enough of this! (smells Ned's breath) Ned, have you been drinking? 
The kid checks with Henry then looks back at Fay and nods. Fay looks at her husband, outraged. 
HENRY (explains) His throat hurt from smoking. 
Fay slaps him across the face -- hard -- and the place goes quiet. Henry shakes his head clear and she pokes him in the chest with her finger. 
FAY Henry, don't come home tonight! I'm warning you! Don't come home at all! Ever! 
And she storms out with the kid. Henry snaps his jaw back into place, then looks at Patty and Bill and shrugs. He knocks back his drink and motions for another. 
EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- NIGHT 
Later (evening). 
Henry staggers out of the back door of the Inferno and comes across Mr Deng sitting against the wall of the store, watching the basketball game on a small TV. World of Donuts vibrates with loud music. 
HENRY Who's winning? 
MR DENG Nobody. 
Henry gestures to World of Donuts... 
HENRY What's going on in there? 
MR DENG We gotta have rock 'n' roll shows these days, Henry. The poetry readings just don't pay the bills no more. 
HENRY What did I tell you! It was just a fad. I told you that! I told everyone! 
MR DENG Did you hear about Simon? It was on the news today. 
HENRY Yeah yeah yeah. So what? A Nobel Prize. Anybody can get one of them these days. That's the problem, with this world, Mr Deng... Nobody's got any standards anymore. You seen Fay? 
MR DENG You better sleep in my office tonight, Henry. She was very angry. You've gotta let her cool off. 
HENRY I can't sleep in there with that racket! 
MR DENG Suit yourself. 
Henry considers his options, then... 
INT. GARAGE -- NIGHT 
WARREN (off) Hey! 
Henry looks over and sees Warren stumble drunkenly out of the bathroom. What are you doing in my house? 
HENRY (to Vicky) It's about Pearl. 
Vicky looks troubled. She sits back down with a sigh. 
VICKY Mind your own business, Henry. 
WARREN (shoves him) Yeah, who the hell do you think you are, anyway? 
Henry falls back and looks at Vicky. She looks away. 
Henry looks at Warren, pauses, then gives him a sharp, hard shove. 
Warren stands back against the wall, pauses, then erupts into viciousness. 
He grabs Henry and throws him violently down the hall, where he hits the wall and collapses. 
As Henry gets to his knees, Warren kicks him in the ribs. Henry curls up and rolls out on to the kitchen floor. Warren kicks him in the side of the head. 
Vicky sits back down on the bed, covering her ears. 
Warren beats the hell out of Henry, kicking him in the face and ribs whenever he manages to get up on his hands and knees. Henry crawls under the kitchen table for safety. Warren grabs his feet and drags him out. As he is dragged across the floor, Henry finds a screwdriver and grabs it. He rolls over on his back as... 
Warren lunges down at him again and... 
WARREN Ah. 
Warren is stabbed in the heart. 
Henry can't believe it. 
Warren can't believe it. He stands there in the middle of the kitchen, amazed, with the screwdriver sticking out of his chest. 
Henry, semi-conscious and severely beaten, falls against the back door and coughs up a few of his teeth. Vicky steps into the hall from her room and shudders. 
Warren sits at the table, stunned. He looks from the screwdriver to Vicky, then... 
WARREN Fuck. 
He falls to the floor. 
EXT. STREETS -- NIGHT 
Henry staggers away, limping. He comes to the intersection at the end of the block and doesn't know which way to run. Panicked, he looks round, holding his arm to his chest. He runs towards the highway. 
INT. POLICE STATION -- NIGHT 
Later. 
Fay is wired beyond belief. Trying to listen attentively, but still too overwhelmed to maintain her concentration. 
LAWYER (off) It is true your husband served seven years in prison for statutory rape. 
FAY Yes. It is. 
LAWYER And when was that? 
FAY That was... I dunno. Fifteen... Sixteen years ago. 
LAWYER And when were you married? 
FAY We were married seven years ago. 
LAWYER Were you aware at all of the victim's relationship with his daughter? 
FAY Pardon me? 
LAWYER The girl, the daughter, Pearl. She had been having sexual relations with her father. 
Fay is overwhelmed. 
FAY I didn't know that. No. 
LAWYER Pearl claims she offered your husband sexual favors if he would kill her father. 
Fay just looks at him blankly, overwhelmed, confused. She starts to cry quietly. 
LAWYER I'm just repeating what she said, Mrs Fool. The victim's wife, Vicky, claims your husband broke into the house and forcefully entered her bedroom. 
Fay trembles and catches her breath trying to take this all in. A cop hands her some tissues. She takes them and tries to concentrate on what the lawyer says. 
LAWYER Fay, I know this isn't easy. But we need your help here. The girl claims she asked your husband to kill her father in exchange for, well, I guess the promise of sexual relations with her. 
INT. POLICE STATION CORRIDOR -- NIGHT 
Later. 
Fay staggers out into the noisy corridor and rests against the wall. Looking down the hall she sees... 
Pearl and Vicky, sitting in a blank, brightly lit room beyond a glass door. 
Fay comes closer and looks in at them. 
They don't see her. They stare at the floor before them, dazed and confused. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Morning. 
Fay is lying on her bed with her coat still on, trying to think. Ned stands by the side of the bed, watching her. 
NED Mom? 
Ned runs up the stairs, the concierge in pursuit. 
INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR -- DAY 
Moments later. 
Ned jumps out into the hall, narrowly escaping the clutches of the concierge, who falls to the floor. 
Ned runs up the hall, checking the room numbers as the concierge gets to his feet. He finds... 
Room 423. 
He knocks. 
The concierge strides up the hall towards him. 
Ned knocks again. 
The concierge bears down upon him. 
He knocks again and... 
The door opens a crack, held by its safety chain. A female figure in silhouette is at the narrow gap. 
Ned looks from the door to the concierge approaching. 
The concierge arrives and reaches out for him, but the door opens wide and Ned dives in. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM 423 -- DAY 
Same time. 
The concierge stands in the hallway. The door swings shut in his face. 
Ned kneels on the floor of the hotel room, waiting to be smacked, or something. 
But when nothing happens, he opens his eyes and looks back over his shoulder at... 
Laura, the secretary from the publishing house. She is dressed for travel and has her coat hung over her arm, a suitcase in her hand. She smiles at him, then looks from the boy to someone across the room and... 
Ned follows her gaze to find... 
Simon, standing there before him, a suitcase in his hand as well. He looks down at Ned with a calm, intrigued expression. 
The boy looks up at him in awe. 
Simon steps forward, pauses, then... 
SIMON Get up off your knees. 
He does. 
EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY 
A taxi pulls up. Simon and Ned climb out and Laura leans out of the window. 
LAURA Promise me you'll be on that plane at seven, Simon. 
SIMON I'll see you in Stockholm. 
They kiss. The taxi pulls away. Simon comes down beside Ned, takes the boy by the shoulders and whispers in his ear. 
The kid takes off. 
Simon looks over at World of Donuts and sees Gnoc waiting there at the door. 
EXT. BEHIND WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY 
Gnoc leads Simon out through the kitchen. A band is seen doing a sound check, inside. 
Buñuel and Hawkes are waiting there, looking concerned. 
Simon gives Buñuel his passport. 
Buñuel nods and leaves. 
Hawkes and Gnoc open the cellar doors. 
INT. WORLD OF DONUTS BASEMENT -- DAY 
Moments later. 
Simon is lead down the stairs and stops. He looks on in horror at... 
Henry, lying on a makeshift bed, badly beaten up and weak. Mr Deng is wrapping his chest in bandages. 
Simon pauses, then comes closer. He reaches out and touches Henry's shoulder, standing there looking down at his friend. Henry looks up at him, pauses and then gestures vaguely with his hand. 
HENRY Look, Simon, the world's a scary place. I admit it. But it's not my fault. I swear! 
Simon thinks about this and looks away. 
SIMON I'm sorry, Henry. 
HENRY Don't be. You had things to do. 
SIMON So did you. 
Henry thinks about that, sighs and looks away. 
INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
Fay packs up the many books of the 'Confession' into one of the old suitcases Henry first came to town with. She slams it shut. 
EXT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY 
