HIGH FIDELITY 
By 
D.V. De Vincentis, Steve Pink, & John Cusack 
Based on the novel by Nick Hornby 
London Draft Registered: WGAw 
FADE IN 
INT. ROB'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
STEREO 
Not a minisystem, not a matching set, but coveted audiophile clutter of McIntosh and Nakamichi, each component from a different era, bought piece by piece in various nanoseconds of being flush. 
ROB (V.O.) What came first?  The music or the misery?  People worry about kids playing with guns and watching violent videos, we're scared that some sort of culture of violence is taking them over... 
RECORDS 
Big thin LPs.  Fields of them.  We move across them, slowly... they seem to come to rest in an end of a few books... but then the CD's start, and go on, faster and faster, forever then the singles, then the tapes... 
ROB (V.O.) But nobody worries about kids listening to thousands -- literally thousands -- of songs about broken hearts and rejection and pain and misery and loss. 
It seems the records, tapes, and CD's will never end until... we come to ROB -- always a hair out of place, a face that grows on you.  He sits in an oversized beanbag chair and addresses us, the wall of music behind him. 
ROB Did I listen to pop music because I was miserable, or was I miserable because I listened to pop music? 
INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Group of bags huddled next to the door.  Not the go-on- 
vacation set, but the clothes-to-coffee-maker moving out variety.  Rob stares at them, his face unreadable, his head gripped by a big pair Boudokan headphones.  We hear what he is hearing, something foreboding and upbeat at the same time. 
LAURA, Rob's girlfriend, enters the room, and he immediately pulls the headphones off.  She clocks him for a moment, catching him in what seems to be an old and repeated moment of nonpresence.  She begins to heft the bags, Rob goes to her, a little tardy for his big goodbye.  Laura begins to cry a bit. 
LAURA I don't really know what I'm doing. 
He smiles, and she doesn't.  He adjusts. 
ROB You don't have to go this second. You can stay until whenever. 
LAURA We've done the hard part now.  I might as well, you know... 
ROB Well stay for tonight, then. 
Laura shakes her head, lifts the last small bag, and backs out the door.  A strap catches on a handle and the two of them wrestle with it a bit, while trying to keep the door open, until Laura awkwardly disappears from view and the door shuts behind Rob.  He stays right there staring at the shut door for a long moment, listening to the fading sound of Laura and her dragging bags. 
STEREO 
Rob's left hand cranks the volume knob while his right switches the CD changer to something loud and adrenal.  He addresses us again. 
ROB My desert-island, all-time, top five most memorable break-ups, in chronological order are as follows: Alison Ashworth, Penny Hardwick, Jackie Allen, Charlie Nicholson, Sarah Kendrew. 
INT. APARTMENT STAIRWELL 
Laura drags her bags, banging down the stairs -- 
INT. ROB'S APARTMENT 
Rob moves around the apartment, seeming to expand physically, looking for change as he continues. 
ROB Those were the ones that really hurt. Can you see your name in that list, Laura?  Maybe you'd sneak into the top ten, but there's no place for you in the top five.  Sorry.  Those places are reserved for the kind of humiliations and heartbreaks that you're just not capable of delivering. 
He adjusts the angle of the TV, stuffs a creepy family portrait into a drawer. 
ROB That probably sounds crueler than it's meant to, but the fact is, we're too old to take each other miserable. Unhappiness used to mean something. Now it's just a drag like a cold or having no money. 
He moves through the living room to an open window facing the street.  Looking down two stories, he sees Laura emerge from the building and drag her bags toward her car across the street. 
ROB If you really wanted to mess me up, you should have got to me earlier. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. SUBURBAN PARK - DUSK - 
Rob and Alison sit on the bench, kissing awkwardly. 
ROB (V.O.) Which brings us to number one.  Alison Ashworth. 
PARK BENCH - DUSK 
ROB The fetish properties are not unlike porn.  I would feel guilty taking their money if I wasn't, kind of, well, one of them. 
As he walks one of the two slim aisles toward the back, he stops on a dime, steps back and pulls a CD from the sea and 
replaces it almost the same position, but not quite -- meticulousness and pride in this gesture... 
After a moment the door creaks open behind Rob, admitting DICK, a nervous, forlorn but sweet and intelligent discophile with long greasy black hair, a Sonic Youth T-shirt, a monstrous pair of headphones, and a canvas record bag emblazoned with a label logo. 
ROB 'Morning, Dick. 
DICK Oh, hi.  Hi, Rob. 
ROB Good weekend? 
DICK Yeah, OK.  I found the first Licorice Comfits album at Vintage Vinyl.  The one on Testament of Youth.  Never released here.  Japanese import only. 
ROB Great. 
DICK I'll tape it for you. 
ROB No, that's okay.  Really. 
DICK 'Cause you like their second one, you said, Pop, Girls. etc.  The one with Cheryl Ladd on the cover.  You didn't see the cover though. 
ROB Yeah, I haven't really absorbed that one. 
DICK Well, I'll just make it for you. 
ROB (resigned) Okay. 
CUT TO: 
INT. RECORD STORE - LATER 
Dick is behind the counter, Rob in the aisles with a clipboard doing inventory. 
ROB (re: music) What's this? 
DICK The new Belle and Sebastian.  Like it? 
The door flies open and BARRY, an acid-tongued post-punk rock misanthrope without quite enough intelligence to conceptualize his own rebellion, walks in.  His teeth are clenched in air-guitar concentration and he's phonetically cranking a Clash riff: 
BARRY BAA!  BA BA DANG! 
Dick shrinks back from him instinctively.  He stops mid-step and cocks his ear at the music playing in the store.  His face adopts an exaggerated grimace. 
BARRY Holy Shiite!  What the fuck's this? 
DICK It's the new -- 
ROB It's the record we've been listening to and enjoying, Barry. 
Barry moves in on the stereo behind the counter, and Dick gets out of his way. 
BARRY Well that's problematic because it sucks ass. 
He pops the CD out and frisbees it to Dick. 
BARRY (re: the CD) Yours, I assume... 
Barry pulls a tape out of his jacket and jams it in.  "How to Kill a Radio Consultant" by Public Enemy comes through at through the red levels. 
ROB (over the blare) TURN IT OFF, BARRY. 
BARRY IT WON'T GO ANY LOUDER. 
Barry walks in rhythm toward the stockroom and disappears. 
Rob goes behind the counter and stops the tape.  Barry's head pops out of the stockroom. 
BARRY What are you doing? 
ROB I don't want to hear Public Enemy right now. 
BARRY Public Enemy!  All I'm trying to do is cheer us up.  Go ahead and put on some old sad bastard music see if I care. 
ROB I don't want old sad bastard music either.  I just want something I can ignore. 
BARRY But it's my new tape.  My Monday morning tape.  I made it last night just for today. 
ROB Yeah, well it's fucking Monday afternoon.  You should get out of bed earlier. 
BARRY Don't you want to hear what's next? 
INT. SOME RECORD STORE - DAY 
A younger and catatonic Rob listlessly sorts through a stack of records. 
ROB (V.O.) I came to three months later, and to my surprise had flunked out of school and started working in a record store. 
INT. ROB'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Rob stands in front of his wall of music, shifting LPs around between the shelves and piles on the floor as he talks to us. 
ROB What I really learned from the Charlie Debacle is that you gotta punch your weight.  Charlie was out of my Class: too pretty, too smart, too witty, too much.  What am I?  Average.  A middleweight.  Not the smartest guy in the world, but certainly not the dumbest.  I've read books like The Unbearable Lightness of Being, Angela's Ashes, and Love in the Time of Cholera, and understood them, I think -- they're about girls, right? -- just kidding -- but I don't like them very much.  My all time top five favorite books are Johnny Cash's autobiography, Snow Crash by Neil Stevenson, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, The Trouser Press Guides to Rock, and, I don't know, probably something by Kurt Vonnegut.  I look through the New Yorker when my neighbor's done with it, and I'm not averse to going down to the Fine Arts to watch subtitles films, although on the whole I prefer American films.  Top five being Blade Runner, Cool Hand Luke, the first two Godfathers which we'll count as one, Taxi Driver, and The Shining. I'm okay looking, average height, not skinny, not fat.  My genius, if I can call it that, is to combine a whole load of averageness into one compact frame.  You might say there were millions like me, but there aren't, really: Alot of guys have impeccable music taste but don't read, alot of guys read but are really fat, alot of guys are sympathetic to women but have stupid beards, alot of guys have a Woody Allen sense of humor but look like Woody Allen. Some drink too much, some drive like assholes, some get into fights, or show off money, or do drugs.  I don't do any of these things, really.  If I do okay with women it's not because of the virtues I have, but because of the ugly flaws I don't have... So.  Charlie and I didn't match. After her I was determined to never get out of my league again. 
INT. ROB'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Rob presses play on the answering machine.  A pleasant, older female voice is heard.  It's JANET, Laura's mother. 
JANET (on machine) Hello, you two.  Laura, it's your mother.  Your father's angina is a little rough today and I thought he'd like to talk to you.  No big deal.  I love you two.  Bye. 
Beep. 
LIZ (on machine) Rob, it's Liz.  Just calling to see, well, if you're okay.  Give me a ring.  I'm not taking sides.  Yet. Lot's of love.  Bye. 
He pulls an LP from a shelf, puts it on the turntable and sits back in his chair. 
EXT. LAKE MICHIGAN WATERFRONT - MOS - THE PAST 
The MUSIC becomes SOUNDTRACK to the following scenes.  Rob and SARAH, a thin, modestly attractive young woman, SARAH, walk and talk.  They seem to be emphatically complaining together. 
ROB (V.O.) Charlie and I didn't match.  Marco and Charlie matched.  Me and Sarah, number four on the all time break- ups list, matched.  She wore more or less the same clothes as mine, had an acceptable working knowledge of music, and she had been dumped by some asshole named Michael.  He was her moment, Charlie was mine.  Sarah had sworn off men.  I had sworn off women.  It made sense to pool our loathing of the opposite sex, swear them off together, and get to share a bed with someone at the same time. 
INT. SARAH'S APARTMENT - MOS - NIGHT 
Rob and SARAH sit up in bed, staring at the television... 
ROB (V.O.) We were frightened of being left alone for the rest of our lives. Only people of a certain disposition are frightened of being alone for the rest of their lives at twenty- six.  We were of that disposition. Everything seemed much later than it was. 
INT. SARAH'S KITCHEN - MOS - DAY ROB'S POV 
of Sarah, sitting across the table, mid-confession. 
ROB (V.O.) When she told me that she met someone else it made no sense.  Her meeting someone else was contrary to the whole spirit of our arrangement. All we really had in common was that we were dumped by people, and that we were against dumping.  We were violently anti-dump.  So how come I got dumped? 
ROB IN HIS CHAIR 
The MUSIC becomes PRESENCE again, and Rob takes the needle off the record. 
ROB You run the risk of losing anyone who is worth spending time with. But I didn't know that at the time. All I saw was that I'd moved down a division and that it still hadn't worked out, and this seemed cause for a great deal of misery and self- pity.  And that's when Laura came along. 
INT. ROB'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Rob is surrounded by stacks of records on the floor.  He looks to camera. 
ROB I'm reorganizing my records tonight. It's something I do in times of emotional distress.  When Laura was here I had them in alphabetical order, before that, chronologically. Tonight, though, I'm trying to put them in the order in which I bought them.  That way I can write my own autobiography without picking up a pen.  Pull them all off the shelves, look for Revolver and go from there. I'll be able to see how I got from Deep Purple to The Soft Boys in twenty- five moves.  What I really like about my new system is that it makes me more complicated than I am.  To find anything you have to be me, or at the very least a doctor in Rob-ology. If you wanna find Landslide by Fleetwood Mac you have to know that I bought it for someone in the fall of 1983 and then didn't give it to them for personal reasons.  But you don't know any of that, do you?  You would have to ask me to-- 
The phone rings again.  Rob picks it up. 
ROB Yeah? 
MOM Hi, Rob.  It's your mother. 
Rob deflates a bit. 
ROB Hi, Mom. 
MOM Everything all right? 
ROB Great.  Super-fantastic. 
MOM How's the store? 
ROB So so.  Up and down. 
MOM Your lucky Laura's doing so well. If it wasn't for her, I don't think either of us would ever sleep... 
Rob holds his lips together with thumb and forefinger, but succumbs -- 
ROB She left.  She's gone. 
MOM What do you mean?  Where did she go? 
ROB How would I know?  Gone.  Girlfriend. Leave.  Not say where gone.  Laura move out. 
MOM Well call her mother. 
Dick and Barry nod, then keep watching.  All three of them are in their own private fantasies with Marie. 
DICK She shouldn't done it on "The Number Four With a Smile." 
BARRY Isn't her album called "Number Four With A Smile?" 
DICK That's what I said. 
BARRY No, no, no, you said "The Number Four With a Smile," and there's no "The" at the front of the title of the album. 
DICK It's a reference to a Chinese meal in Toronto and I think that there is a "The."  But I could be wrong. 
BARRY You can be and are wrong. 
They drop it, so that their eyes can drift back to Marie. 
BARRY I wanna date a musician... 
ROB (nods in agreement) I wanna live with a musician.  She'd write songs at home, ask me what she thought of them, maybe even include one of our private jokes in the liner notes. 
BARRY ...Maybe a picture of me in the liner notes... 
DICK Just in the background somewhere. 
MARIE 
as the song ends, and she smiles out over the room.  The audience applauds. 
MARIE Thanks, you guys, I know I'm not supposed to like that song, but I do.  I'm gonna take a break for a second.  Anybody wants to buy one of my tapes, they're five bucks up here. One of my other personalities will be selling them. 
ROB, DICK, AND BARRY 
BARRY Let's go get one. 
ROB Let's not. 
DICK I want a tape. 
Barry and Dick stand and begin to move off... 
ROB I don't need to go up there right now. 
...and they're gone.  After a beat, Rob gets up and follows them. 
FOOT OF THE STAGE 
Dick and Barry wait nervously to buy a tape, Rob just behind them.  Marie processes sales with polite monosyllables, until the three get up front. 
MARIE Enjoying yourselves? 
They dart eyes to each other, then nod. 
MARIE Good.  'Cause I'm enjoying myself. 
ROB Good. 
Rob hands her a ten and she roots around in a duffel bag for change... 
ROB So you live in Chicago now? 
MARIE Yup.  Not far from here, actually. 
BARRY You like it? 
MARIE It's okay.  Hey.  You guys might be the sort to know.  Are there any good record stores around here or do I have to go downtown? 
Barry and Dick do not try to control themselves.  They point to Rob. 
DICK He's got one! 
BARRY On Clark Street! 
DICK A couple blocks!  About six! 
BARRY We work there! 
DICK You'd love it! 
Marie laughs. 
MARIE What do you sell? 
BARRY A little of anything that matters. Rock, soul, R&B, punk rock, hip- hop, ska, new wave... 
BARRY We can take your car. 
ROB It's not my car, now is it?  It's Laura's car, and thus Laura has it. So it's an ass-bumping double- transferring bus ride through bumblefuck or a fat wad on a cab. Wow.  Fucking great. 
Barry sighs, throws up his hands and heads out the door. 
BARRY Jaggoff... 
Barry exits.  Rob seems to be having trouble staying on his feet. 
ROB Who the fuck is Ian?! 
CUT TO: 
INT. ROB'S BUILDING'S LOBBY - NIGHT 
Rob enters and walks to the mail table, looking like shit. 
He starts sifting through envelopes for his. 
ROB Laura doesn't know anybody called Ian.  There's no Ian at her office. She has no friends named Ian.  She has never met anyone called Ian in her whole life.  Although there may have been one in college -- but I am almost certain that since 1989 she has lived in an Ian-less universe. 
He slows... and stops.  His face gets a little paler as he lifts a letter up to his face. 
CLOSE-UP: LETTER 
A cable service bill to a Mr. I. Raymond. 
ROB 
as he looks at it, divining. 
ROB "I. Raymond." Ray. "I." IAN. 
CUT TO: 
ROB IN HIS CHAIR 
Rob to camera. 
ROB Mr. I Raymond. "Ray" to his friends, and, more importantly, to his neighbors.  The guy who up until about six weeks ago lived upstairs. I knew it was him the moment I saw the letter.  I start to remember things now: His stupid clothing, his music -- Latin, Bulgarian, whatever fucking world music was trendy that week--stupid laugh, awful cooking smells.  I can't remember anything good about him at all.  I never liked him much then, and I fucking hate him now... I manage to block out the worst, most painful, most disturbing memory of him until I go to bed. 
INT. ROB'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Darkness.  We move silently through the rooms, and enter the bedroom... closer to the bed, we see Rob on his back, sheets held clenched up to his chin.  He stares at the ceiling, sadly. 
JUMP CUT 
To almost the same shot, but it's Rob and Laura in the bed, semi-tangled.  Laura has a book in her lap.  A CREAKING is heard.  Laura's eyes go to the ceiling, and Rob sits up at attention.  They look up at the light fixture, which shakes a little faster, with the rhythm of the creaking.  Someone is definitely having sex upstairs, and they are going for it. 
ROB Jeez.  He goes on long enough. 
LAURA I should be so lucky. 
They turn to each other and laugh. 
JUMP CUT BACK 
to Rob lying still in bed, staring at the ceiling. 
ROB You are as abandoned and as noisy as any character in a porn film, Laura. You are Ian's plaything, responding to his touch with shrieks of orgasmic delight.  No woman in the history of the world is having better sex than the sex you are having with Ian in my head. 
ROB'S IAN-LAURA SEX NIGHTMARE - QUICK CUTS 
Ian mercilessly savages Laura from behind, below, and above, champagne showers, toe-sucking, and animal screams -- 
BACK TO ROB IN BED, 
imploding with disgust and sorrow.  Tears run down his cheeks into his ears. 
ROB Number five -- Jackie Allen.  My break up with Jackie Allen had no effect on my life whatsoever.  I just slotted her in to bump you out of position, Laura.  Yes, you do in fact make it into the top five. Welcome.  And just to remind you, the list is in chronological order, not in the order of pain and suffering. 
INT. RECORD STORE - DAY 
Dick and Barry are stocking the racks.  Rob stands at the register, rocking back and forth sort of like an idiot, to "Always and Forever" by the Commodores.  He is a mess. 
FEMALE VOICE Hey. 
Rob looks up to see a nineteen or twenty-year-old GIRL standing in front of him. 
GIRL Do you have soul? 
Rob smiles bitterly at her, clearly having a different meaning in mind. 
WOMAN Sure.  Ten cents. 
ROB Oh, come on!  Let me give you ten dollars for this, and you can give the rest away for all I care. 
WOMAN Okay.  Because you took the trouble to come up here.  And because you've got principles.  But that's it.  I'm not selling them to you one by one. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FANCY LINCOLN PARK TOWNHOUSE - DAY 
Rob comes down the stairs holding his single, and walks down the street talking to camera. 
ROB How come I end up siding with the bad guy, the man who ran off to Jamaica with some nymphette?  I just got left for someone else, so why can't I bring myself to feel whatever it is his wife is feeling?  All I can see is that guy's face when he gets that pathetic check in the mail for those records, and I can't help but feel desperately, painfully sorry for him. 
CUT TO: 
INT. GREEN MILL - NIGHT 
The bar where Al Capone used to party, and it looks about the same: colored lightbulbs, shadowboxes, deep plush booths and a stage for jazz.  Rob slumps back in a booth, stirring a drink with his finger.  After a beat, we hear a DOOR SLAM off camera, and Rob looks up with a bit of fear. 
Heavy footsteps get louder and closer, until a shadow shrouds Rob -- LIZ stands in front of him. 
LIZ MOTHERFUCKER. 
She is enormous, and she is mad as hell.  Rob reflexively shrinks. 
ROB What's the -- hey, Liz -- 
LIZ -- No, no, no, don't even.  I talked to Laura, Rob.  I talked to her and she gave me a little background. And you're a fucking ASSHOLE. 
She turns and stomps toward the door.  Rob gets up and follows. 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Rob comes out of the club and follows Liz.  She hears him and turns on him, punctuating with a finger in his chest. 
LIZ To think I sympathized with you for two seconds!  Poor Rob!  Laura left him out of nowhere for the schmuck upstairs.  You let me believe that! 
ROB It's true! 
LIZ Rob!  Two years ago you got Laura pregnant; you then proceeded to cheat on her!  You borrowed money from her and never paid a dime back!  And then, just a few weeks ago, you told her you were unhappy with her and were "kind of looking around for somebody else!" 
ROB Well she -- 
She turns again and keeps walking, holding a defiant middle finger over her shoulder as she fades down the street. 
INT. SUBWAY CAR - NIGHT 
Rob sits, rocking slightly with the movement of the train. 
He stares at an OLD COUPLE who do not speak to each other. 
ROB She's right, of course.  I am a fucking asshole.  I did and said those things.  But before you judge, although you've probably already done so, go off for a minute and write down the top five worst things that you have done to your partner, even if -- especially if -- your partner doesn't know about them. Don't dress things up or try to explain them.  Just write them down in the plainest language possible... 
A LONG BEAT, even five or ten seconds. 
ROB Pencils down.  Okay, so who's the asshole now? 
CUT TO: 
INT. RECORD STORE - DAY 
Saturday.  For the first time we see the place kind of busy. Rob watches the room.  Barry is toward the back, talking to a CUSTOMER. "Cruel to Be Kind" by Nick Lowe plays. 
BARRY It's almost impossible to find, especially on CD.  Yet another cruel trick on all of the dumbasses who got rid of their turntables.  But every other Echo and the Bunnymen album -- 
CUSTOMER I have all of the others. 
BARRY Oh really.  Well what about the first Jesus and Mary Chain? 
CUSTOMER They always seemed... 
BARRY They always seemed what?  They always seemed really great, is what they always seemed.  They picked up where your precious Echo left off, and you're sitting here complaining about no more Echo albums.  I can't believe that you don't own that record. That's insane. 
He plucks it from the rack, and sticks it in the Customer's hand, who regards it with a bit a of shame. 
CUSTOMER Well what about the new Echo -- 
BARRY Do not get ahead of yourself. 
DICK 
is listening to a female customer, but he doesn't hear her voice. 
ROB Dick, call the police, please. 
Vince and Justin look at each other. 
ROB (looking through the CD's) Eno import.  Sigue Sigue Sputnik. Break beats.  Serge Gainsbourg. Ryuchi Sakamoto, Syd Barrett... What's going on here?  Are you guys stealing for other people now? 
VINCE Naw.  Those are for us. 
ROB Oh really.  You two are slamming to Nico now? 
JUSTIN You're, like, so bigoted to look at us and, like, think you know what we listen to. 
VINCE You got the CD's so can I have my board back? 
ROB I think you have more. 
VINCE Well we don't. 
ROB I can't frisk you but the cops can. 
Justin reaches down again into his baggy shorts and comes up with a tattered old book, "How To Make A Record."  He tosses it over. 
ROB Jesus.  That thing's been in the bargain bin for six months!  Was it just your criminal nature or what? Hell, I would've given it to you for free. 
VINCE No, we... 
JUSTIN We don't know how it works.  Nobody even knows, so we wanted to check it out in that mag. 
Rob snorts. 
JUSTIN Like, do you know how to actually make a CD? 
Rob can't resist edifying them -- the curse of the underappreciated expert. 
ROB Uh, yes I, like, do... It's simple. You make the tracks -- recording studio -- deliver them to the pressing plant where a master is cut, the master is then dubbed to submasters, which are the "mothers," as their called, for each press in the plant. You press the CD's or records, put in your cover art, and that's it. 
VINCE Records are those big round black things, right? 
ROB Fuck off. 
Rob turns to go back in the store. 
VINCE Hey, can I have my board? 
Rob drops it and enters the store. 
CUT TO: 
INT. RECORD STORE - NIGHT - QUICK CUTS: 
Barry emerges from the back with three opened bottles of beer as the last customer goes out the door... The three lean against the bins, tired and smiling. 
BARRY (to Rob) What? 
ROB What do you mean, "what?" 
BARRY What are you snickering about? 
ROB I'm not snickering.  I'm smiling. Because I'm happy. 
BARRY What am I missing?  What do you have to be happy about? 
DICK Well we rang $900 today. 
ROB Yeah but more than that.  I'm happy because I'm proud of us.  Because although our talents are small and peculiar, we use them to their best advantage. 
Dick and Barry look at each other.  They almost know how to take a compliment. 
EXT. RECORD STORE - NIGHT 
Rob, now alone, turns the sign from "open" to "closed" shuts the door behind him, and pulls the gate across.  Laura appears from the next doorway.  He jumps. 
ROB Shit! 
LAURA Hi. 
ROB Hi. 
LAURA I thought I could give you a lift back. 
ROB Are you coming home? 
LAURA Yes.  Well, I'm coming over to your house to get some things. 
LAURA Have you tackled the Great Reorganization yet? 
ROB Don't you think there are more important things to talk about than my record collection? 
She begins putting books and other things into the bag... 
LAURA You bet.  I've been saying that for years. 
Having no comeback, Rob goes for the moral high ground. 
ROB So.  Where have you been staying for the last week? 
LAURA I think you know that. 
ROB Had to work it out for myself, though, didn't I? 
Laura looks suddenly tired and sad, and looks away. 
LAURA I'm sorry.  I haven't been very fair to you.  That's why I came here to the store this evening.  I feel terrible, Rob.  This is really hard, you know. 
ROB Good. (beat) So.  Is it my job? 
LAURA What?  Gimme a fucking break.  Is that what you think?  That your not big enough a deal for me?  Jesus, gimme a little credit, Rob. 
ROB I don't know.  It's one of the things I thought of. 
LAURA What were the others? 
ROB Just the obvious stuff. 
LAURA What's the obvious stuff? 
ROB I don't know. 
She stands and walks toward the bathroom. 
LAURA I guess it's not that obvious, then. 
ROB No. 
As soon as she shuts the door behind her, he turns to camera. 
ROB And number three: The Pregnancy.  I didn't know she was pregnant.  Of course I didn't.  She hadn't told me because I had told her I was... sort of... seeing somebody else.  We thought we were being very grown-up, but we were being preposterously naive, childish even, to think that one of us could fuck around and then own up to it while we were living together.  So -- I didn't find out about it 'til way later.  We were going through a good period and I made a crack about having kids and she burst into tears.  I made her tell me what it was all about, and she did.  I felt guilty and so I got angry.  She told me that at the time I didn't look like a very good long- term bet.  That it was a hard decision and she didn't see any point in consulting me about it...  When the whole sorry tale comes out in a great big -- 
We hear the bathroom door open. 
LAURA (O.S.) What? 
ROB (covering) What, what? 
Laura comes out with a toiletry bag and places it by the door. 
LAURA Did you say something? 
ROB No.  So.  Is it working out with Ian? 
LAURA Rob.  Don't be childish. 
ROB Why is that childish?  Your living with the guy!  I'm just asking how it's going. 
LAURA I am not living with him.  I've just been staying with him for a few days until I work out what I'm doing. Look, this has nothing to do with anyone else.  You know that, don't you?  I left because we weren't exactly getting along, and we weren't talking about it.  And I suddenly realized that I like my job, and I like what my life is could be turning into, and that I'm getting to a point where I want to get my shit together and I can't really see that ever happening with you, and yeah, yeah, I sort of get interested in someone else, and that went further than it should have, so it seemed like a good time to go.  But I have no idea what will happen with Ian in the long run.  Probably nothing. 
ROB Well then why don't you quit it while you seem to not be ahead? 
Laura rolls her eyes and head off into the bedroom with the laundry bag.  Rob turns back to camera. 
ROB -- When the whole sorry tale comes out in a great big lump like that, even the most shortsighted jerk, even the most self-deluding and self pitying of jilted, wounded lovers can see that there is some cause and effect going on here, that abortions and Ian and money and affairs all belong to, all deserve each other. 
Laura reappears, her bag half-filled with clothes, and goes to the book shelves next to the records.  She starts topping off the bag with books. 
LAURA Look.  Maybe you'll grow up and we'll get it together, you and me.  Maybe I'll never see either of you again. I don't know.  All I know is that it's not a good time to be living here. 
ROB So, what, you haven't definitely decide to dump me?  There's still a chance we'll get back together? 
LAURA I don't know. 
ROB Well, if you don't know, there's a chance, right?  It's like, if someone was in the hospital and he was seriously ill and the doctor said, I don't know if he's got a chance of survival or not, then that doesn't mean the patient's definitely going to die, now does it?  It means he might live.  Even if it's only a remote possibility. 
LAURA I suppose so. 
ROB So we have a chance of getting back together again. 
LAURA Oh, Rob, shut up. 
MARIE Thank you. 
Rob glances at T-Bone, his mind calculating the new info. 
ROB Is that why you came to Chicago in the first place?  Because of, you know, dividing up your record collection and stuff? 
MARIE Yup. 
Marie slides closer, turning her back on the others.  The loop is closed. 
ROB You share a place with T-Bone? 
MARIE No way!  I'd cramp his style.  And I wouldn't want to listen to all that stuff happening on the other side of the bedroom wall.  I'm way to unattached for that. 
ROB I understand completely. 
SERIES OF CUTS - ELAPSED TIME 
Rob and Marie lean in to each other, everyone else out of focus. 
ROB (V.O.) Awhile back, Dick and Barry and I agreed that what really matters is what you like, not what you are like... 
ROB AND MARIE - LATER 
MARIE Yeah, but if you heard this band called the Crumblers, you'd -- 
ROB What do you mean, the Crumblers? You know the Crumblers?  Nobody's heard the Crumblers.  Except me. 
MARIE Yeah, I know the Crumblers!  I bought a used Blasters album in New York about ten years ago and somebody left a Crumblers single in it.  My everything changed for a couple of weeks. 
Rob glows -- 
ROB (V.O.) Books, records, films -- these things matter.  Call me shallow but it's the damn truth, and by this measure I was having one of the best dates of my life. 
ROB AND MARIE 
ROB Yeah, but you know what's his best film and nobody's even seen it? 
MARIE The Conformist. 
ROB Exactly!  Fucking ex-actly! 
MARIE (laughs) You haven't even seen it! 
ROB Nor have you! 
They just laugh and laugh -- 
ROB (V.O.) References, titles, lyrics, flew and met each other in mid-air embraces. The evening goes with breathtaking precision. 
INT. MARIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Rob and Marie are kissing standing up. 
MARIE Are you okay? 
ROB (nodding) Yes.  You? 
MARIE For now.  But I wouldn't be if I thought this was the end of the evening. 
ROB I'm sure it isn't. 
MARIE Good.  In that case, I'll fix us something else to drink.  You sticking to the whiskey or you want coffee? 
ROB Whiskey. 
Marie goes into the kitchen, and they keep talking around the corner. 
MARIE Tops off two whiskeys and starts into the other room where she sees Rob, standing and holding his jacket. 
ROB I'd better go.  I gotta get up early. Go over to my parents'. 
MARIE When I said before that I hoped it wasn't the end of the evening, I was, you know... talking about breakfast and stuff. 
She plants the whiskeys firmly on the coffee table. 
MARIE I'd like it if you could stay the night. 
ROB (as if it is dawning on him) Oh, right.  Alright. 
MARIE Jesus, so much for delicacy.  I pegged you for a master of understatement, beating around the bush and all that buzz. 
ROB I use it but I don't understand it when other people use it. 
ROB You kind of have to start with Elvis Costello, but where? "Motel Matches?" "I Want You?" "I Hope You're Happy Now?" "Green Shirt?" His records should be sealed in cases that say "in case of vicious betrayal, smash glass." "Where Did You Sleep Last Night," sure, but by Robert Johnson or by Nirvana?  Maybe a Liz Phair track.  There are a couple to get angry at instead of being angry with. Some devil's advocate stuff.  The Silver Jews could be good when you're ready to start putting it all behind you...  But I think we're getting ahead of ourselves there.  Ah.  Dylan. Bob fucking Dylan.  Now Bob Dylan would --The phone rings.  He pulls off his headphones and picks it up but says nothing. 
LAURA (O.S.) You must have known it would happen. You couldn't have been entirely unprepared.  Like you said, I've been living with the guy.  We were bound to get around to it sometime. 
She laughs a bit nervously. 
LAURA (O.S.) (machine) And anyway, I keep trying to tell you, that's not really the point, is it?  The point is we got ourselves into an awful mess, Rob...  Are you there?  What are you thinking? 
ROB (barely a whisper) Nothing. 
LAURA (O.S.) We can meet for another drink if you want.  So I can explain it better. I owe you that much. 
ROB Look, I gotta go.  I work too, you know. 
LAURA (O.S.) Will you call me? 
ROB I don't have your number. 
LAURA (O.S.) Call me at work.  We can arrange to meet properly.  I don't want this to be the last conversation we have.  I know what you're like. 
ROB You do, huh. 
He hangs up and stares at the wall for awhile.  He gets a beer from the fridge and sits back down.  He picks up the phone and dials. 
ROB Yes, a residence, a Mr. Ian Raymond, North Side... thank you. 
He writes down a number and hangs up, then looks to camera. 
ROB You know the worst thing about being rejected?  The complete lack of control due to loss of control. 
He picks up the phone and dials, while continuing to talk to us -- 
ROB If I could only control the when and how of being dumped by somebody then it wouldn't seem as bad.  But then, of course -- 
He hangs up quickly -- 
ROB -- it wouldn't be rejection, would it?  It would be mutual consent.  It would be musical differences.  I would be pursuing a solo career. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. IAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Rob is tucked into a phone booth across the street.  He can see the silhouettes of Laura and Ian in the window.  He picks up the phone, drops a quarter, and hits the numbers hard as he dials... a muffled male "hello?" is heard and Rob hangs up.  He does it again.  And again.  And again.  Until -- 
INT. IAN'S APARTMENT - INTERCUT 
Still an unpacked box or two, but it's set up: a framed "Woodstock - The Movie" poster, stacks of new fiction, a bread maker -- you get the idea.  Ian is shorter than Laura, scruffier than Rob, and looks not unlike Leo Sayer/Steve Guttenberg.  He stares at Laura with amused exasperation. 
She picks up the phone -- 
LAURA Hello. 
ROB It's me. 
LAURA I figured it was. (re: traffic noise) Where are you? 
ROB I think the big question here is where are you, if you don't mind my saying so, and I think I know where you are.  You're running.  On the run.  You're running from a point that everyone hits in any relationship, and you're just going to hit it again with Ian but it's going to be with a World Music bunny- rabbit-looking earth-shoe-wearing "Doctor Who"-watching twit who doesn't really understand you, not the way that I do and will more in the future, and you'll have just wasted more time and arrive in the exact same place that you're in now, only later. And with... him. 
LAURA I'm not -- hold on... 
She walks into another room, shutting the door behind her. 
On a bookshelf is a picture of a younger Ian in a tunic, emoting on some college stage.  She turns it face down. 
LAURA I'm not in love with Ian, okay? 
She wanders over to the window, looking out absently.  She sees Rob down there at the phone booth. 
ROB Are you still in love with me? 
LAURA Jesus.  I do not know.  I'll talk to you later. 
ROB Think about what I said.  I mean, if you want to experiment, or whatever -- 
LAURA (indignant) I'm not experimenting.  Why don't you go experiment. 
ROB I don't want to.  Don't need to.  I love you. 
LAURA You don't ever think about other people? 
ROB No... not really... I mean, I think about it... but no, I don't really think about it. 
IAN (O.S.) (through the door) Laura?  Are you okay? 
Ian trips backward and scurries out the door. 
CUT TO FANTASY #3: 
Rob, Dick, and Barry just beating the living shit out of Ian, Rodney King style.  Ian lies on the floor trying to cover himself.  Dick, already out of breath, breaks from the pack and jerks the air conditioner from the wall and hefts it over his head, preparing for the death blow. 
CUT BACK TO REALITY 
IAN So shall we leave it at that then? 
ROB I dunno. 
IAN Think about it, Rob. 
Ian walks out.  Rob looks spent.  He shuffles toward the back of the store. 
INT. RECORD STORE - BACK ROOM - DAY 
Rob is laying on his back, staring at the ceiling.  Dick sticks his head in the door. 
DICK Phone, Rob.  Somebody named Charlie. 
Rob pulls the phone into the bathroom and shuts the door. 
BATHROOM Rob curls up with the phone. 
ROB Hello? 
INT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - INTERCUT 
Charlie looks even better than when we saw her in college. 
CHARLIE Rob, hi, so sorry I missed your call. In LA on business.  You know how it gets. 
ROB Yeah, sure... 
CHARLIE Good.  Great.  Yeah... Wow.  Rob Gordon.  Seems like a 100 million years ago now. 
ROB Yeah.  A billion.  Right... How are you? 
CHARLIE Fantastic but I'm a little busy right now.  Listen.  Do you want to come to dinner Saturday?  I'm having some friends over and I need a spare man. Are you a spare man? 
ROB Uh...yes, at the moment. 
CHARLIE Great.  Gotta go.  See you then. 
INT. CHARLIE'S DINING ROOM 
SERIES OF SHOTS OVER THE COURSE OF DINNER 
Sexy version of a hip wine commercial: a small mid-thirties crowd of successful, beautiful people.  Rob sits at the table silently as the other guests talk and eat.  Rob's central activities are working his way through maybe a few too many wines making sure his cigarette smoke doesn't get in anyone's face.  His eyes occasionally dart around the table, but he says nothing to anyone. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CHARLIE'S LIVING ROOM - LATER 
Rob is a little too settled into the couch, somewhat bleary. 
Everyone gone but the two of them, Charlie plops down into a chair across from Rob. 
ROB Hey Charlie. 
CHARLIE Hey Rob. 
ROB Why did you break up with me for Marco? 
CHARLIE (on her feet) Fuck!  I knew it!  You're going through one of those what-does-it- all-mean things. 
ROB Huh? 
CHARLIE There's been a rash of them, recently. I find it a little unnerving.  In fact Marco called a few months back, and he wanted to see me, and rehash the past as they say, and I wasn't really up for it.  Do all men go through this? 
ROB C'mon, just answer the question. You can say what you like.  What the hell? 
Charlie looks off at a corner of the ceiling, musters a look of "contemplation." 
CHARLIE It's all kind of lost in the... in the dense mists of time now... It wasn't that I really liked Marco more.  In fact I thought you were more, shall we say, attractive than him.  It was just that he knew he was good-looking and you didn't, and that made a difference somehow.  You used to act as if I was weird for wanting to spend time with you, and that got kind of beat, if you know what I mean.  Your self-image started to rub off on me and I ended up thinking that I was strange.  And I knew that you were kind and thoughtful... you made me laugh, and I dug the way you got consumed by things you loved... and Marco seemed a bit more, I don't know, glamorous? More sure of himself? (pause) Less hard work, because I felt like I was dragging you around, sort of. (pause) A little sunnier.  Sparkier. (pause) I don't know.  You know what people are like at that age.  They make very superficial judgements.  Do you think that's superficial?  He was a clown, if it's any consolation. 
ROB Did you tell that to Marco when he did his what-does-it-all-mean thing with you? 
CHARLIE Oh God, no.  I didn't want to hurt his feelings. 
CUT TO: 
Rob flops onto the couch and surveys the room. 
ROB It's a dump, isn't it? 
Laura sits down, on the other side of the couch. 
LAURA Fix it up.  It'll make you feel better. 
ROB I'll bet you can't remember what you were doing here, can you?  I mean, how much are you making now?  Sixty? Seventy?  And you were living in this shitty place. 
LAURA You know I didn't mind.  And it's not as if Ray's place is any better. 
ROB I'm sorry, but can we get this straight?  What is his fucking name, Ian or Ray?  What do you call him? 
LAURA Ray.  I hate Ian. 
ROB I hate him too.  So I just call him "Mavis." Or "Sissyboy." Or "Mavis the Sissyboy." 
Laura starts laughing, laying on the couch on her back, very close to Rob.  Rob leans in, sort of looking down into her eyes. 
ROB This is where you're supposed to say that you haven't laughed this much in ages, and then you see the error of your ways. 
LAURA You make me laugh much more than Ray does, if that's what you're getting at.  But I already knew you could make me laugh.  It's everything else I don't know about. 
ROB You know I'm a good person. 
LAURA Mmm hmm. 
ROB You know that I can cook my ass off when I feel like it. 
LAURA Oh ho, so very infrequently. 
He moves a little closer. 
ROB You know my favorite beverage is your bath water. 
She laughs.  He moves in, not really trying to kiss her but leaving the door open for her... She almost goes for it, but instead gets to her feet. 
LAURA Time to go. 
She goes to her bags.  Rob points to a pile of CDs. 
ROB Don't forget your CDs. 
LAURA Those aren't mine. 
ROB Sure they are. 
LAURA They're not really, though, are they? I know you bought them for me, and that was really sweet of you, but that was when you were trying to turn me into you.  I can't take them, I know they'd just sit around staring at me, and I'd feel embarrassed by them and... they don't fit in with the rest of what's mine, do you understand?  That Sting record you bought for me... that was a present for me.  I like Sting and you hate him.  But the rest of this stuff... (bending down to the pile) Who the hell is Nick Lowe?  Or Gram Parsons?  Or the Boredoms?  I don't know these people.  I... 
ROB Okay, okay.  I get the picture. 
LAURA I'm sorry to go on about it.  But, I don't know, there's a lesson here somewhere, and I want to make sure you get it. 
ROB I got it.  You like Sting but you don't like Gram Parsons, because you've never heard of him. 
LAURA You're being deliberately obtuse. 
ROB I guess I am. 
LAURA Well, think about it. 
She hefts the duffel bag, opens the door and exits. 
ROB Fuck. 
CUT TO: 
ROB IN HIS CHAIR 
Rob to the camera. 
ROB What's the point in thinking about it?  If I ever have another relationship, I'll buy her, whoever she is, stuff that she oughta like but doesn't know about -- that's what new boyfriends are for.  And hopefully I won't borrow money from her, or have an affair, and she won't need to have an abortion or run away with the neighborhood, and then there won't be anything to think about. Laura didn't run off with Ian because I bought her CDs she wasn't that keen on, and to pretend otherwise is just... just... psychowank.  If she thinks that, then she's missing the Brazilian rainforest for the twigs. If I can't buy the Plastic People of the Universe's first album for new girlfriends, then I might as well give up, because I'm not sure I know how to do anything else. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. STREET - MORNING 
Rob walks toward the record store, and looks into a Starbuck's window he passes.  He stops for a second, seeing Ian at the counter, chatting merrily with the espresso jockey.  Rob keeps walking. 
INT. RECORD STORE - BACK ROOM - DAY 
Rob tosses his coat down and picks up the phone and dials... 
LAURA In a minute.  When I get it together. 
BARRY (to Dick) What about Sabbath?  Or Nirvana? They're into death. 
Rob tries to signal to them to shut up but they don't see him.  He moves as far away as the cord will let me. 
ROB Can I do anything? 
DICK "Abraham, Martin, and John." That's a nice one. 
BARRY "Somebody's Gonna Die" by Blitz. "Bella Lugosi's Dead," Bauhaus. It's got that creepy Halloween feeling. 
LAURA No.  No.  Mom wants you to come to the funeral.  It's on Friday. 
ROB Me? 
LAURA My dad liked you.  And Mom never told him we'd split, because he wasn't up to it and... oh, I don't know.  I don't really understand it.  I think she thinks he'll be able to see what's going on.  It's like... (small laugh) He's been through so much, what with dying and everything, that she doesn't want to upset him any more than she has to. 
ROB Do you want me to be there? 
LAURA I don't care.  As long as you don't expect me to hold your hand. 
Rob is silent. 
LAURA Look, are you coming or not? 
ROB Yes, of course. 
LAURA Liz'll give you a lift.  She knows where to go and everything... I don't have time to talk, Rob.  I've got too much to do. 
ROB Sure.  I'll see you on Friday. 
She hangs up. 
BARRY (to the tune of "Candle In the Wind") "Goodbye Laura's dad/blah blah la di da di da/ (belting it out) Seems to me/you lived your life/like a dentist in the wind... 
Rob stomps toward Barry, who jumps over the counter to keep singing -- 
INT. LIZ'S CAR - DAY 
THUNDERCLAPS and RAIN.  Rob is in a somber suit, looking through the windshield wipers as Liz drives. 
ROB So the minister says nice things, and then, what, we all troop outside and they bury him? 
LIZ It's a crematorium. 
ROB You're kidding.  A crematorium? Jesus. 
LIZ What difference does it make? 
ROB Is Ray going? 
LIZ No.  They don't know him.  And Ken liked you.  Rob, Ken didn't die for your benefit, you know.  It's like everybody's a supporting actor in the film of your life story. 
ROB Isn't that how it is for everybody? 
INT. CHAPEL TWO 
Liz and Rob sit in the back of the dark, smallish nondenominational room.  At the front is a coffin, resting on a stand.  Laura, her younger sister JO, and her mother sit in the front row, listening to the MINISTER. 
MINISTER ...Now and forever, Amen. 
He nods "offstage," and a muffled mechanical noise is heard. 
The coffin begins to lower through a trap door beneath it. 
A low, baleful human HOWL is heard, starting quietly but gaining in volume. 
ROB (V.O.) I hear something in Laura's voice, but I know what it is, and at that moment I want to go to her and offer to become a different person, to remove all trace of what is me, as long as she will let me look after her and try to make her feel better... 
INT. CHAPEL PARLOR 
Rob stays back, watching mourners approach Laura and her mother, hugging them.  After awhile, Laura sees Rob through the throng, hanging back.  She breaks through and to him, holding him close for a long time... 
ROB (V.O.) ...And when she let's go of me, I feel I don't need to become a different person.  It's happened already. 
INT. LAURA'S PARENTS' HOUSE - AFTERNOON 
A cozy old Victorian house, full of things -- furniture, paintings, ornaments, plants -- which don't go together but which have obviously been chosen with care and taste.  Rob and Liz stand, drinking wine.  Jo approaches them. 
LIZ (to Jo) How are you? 
JO I'm all right, I suppose.  And Mom's not too bad.  But Laura... I dunno. 
ROB I've only got a couple left.  I'm saving them for later. 
LAURA It'll have to be sex, then. 
She pulls herself over him, staddling him in the passenger seat and kissing his neck.  She pauses and regards him from above. 
LAURA Hello.  It doesn't seem so long ago that I looked at you from here. 
ROB Hi. 
LAURA I knew there was a reason I wore a skirt today. 
Laura reaches down and unzips his pants, as they keep kissing. 
ROB You know, with Ray... 
LAURA Oh, Rob, we're not going to go through that again. 
ROB No, no.  It's not... are you still on the pill? 
LAURA Yes, of course.  There's nothing to worry about. 
ROB I didn't mean that.  I mean... was that all you used? 
Laura looks at him, motionless, then begins to cry. 
ROB Look, we can do other things. 
LAURA I lived with you.  You were my partner just a few weeks ago and now you're worried I might kill you, and you're entitled to worry.  Isn't that a terrible thing?  Isn't that sad? 
She rolls off of him into her seat.  They sit there in silence, watching the rain run down the windshield. 
CUT TO: 
ROB IN HIS CHAIR 
Rob to camera. 
ROB Later, I wonder if I was really worried about where Ian has been.  I have no idea where he's been, and that gives me every right to insist on protection.  But in truth, it was the power that interested me more than the fear.  I wanted to hurt her, on this day of all days, just because it's the first time since she's left that I've been able to. 
INT. BAR - LATER 
Rob and Laura lean back in a booth, facing each other.  We get that feeling that not another word has been spoken since we last saw them. 
ROB Laura... 
LAURA I'm too tired not to go out with you. 
Rob leans forward. 
ROB So if you had a bit more energy we'd stay split.  But things being how they are, what with you wiped out, you'd like us to get back together. 
LAURA (nodding) Everything's too hard.  Maybe another time I would have the guts to be on my own, but not now I don't. 
ROB What about Ian? 
LAURA Ray's a disaster.  I don't know what that was all about, except that sometimes you need someone to lob into the middle of a bad relationship like a hand grenade, I guess, and blow it all apart. 
ROB Mission accomplished. 
LAURA I know it's not very romantic, but there will be romance again at some stage, I'm sure.  I just... I need you, Rob.  That's it.  And we know each other and we care for each other, and you've made it clear that you want me back, so... 
She looks up at him. 
LAURA Let's go home.  Okay? 
ROB Okay. 
CUT TO: 
ROB IN HIS CHAIR 
Rob to camera. 
ROB But wouldn't you know it?  Suddenly I feel panicky, and sick, and I want to run around and sleep with female recording artists... 
CUT TO: 
INT. ROB AND LAURA'S APARTMENT - MORNING 
Post-lovemaking.  Rob and Laura lie on their backs. 
ROB C'mon.  I want to know. 
ROB You're being stupid. 
LAURA How?  What would be the difference between you having a record label and me going from legal aid to private practice? 
Rob is silent. 
LAURA All I'm saying is, you have to allow for things to happen to people, most of all to yourself.  Otherwise, what's the use? 
ROB No use. 
INT./EXT. RECORD STORE - DAY 
Rob comes out of the stock room and walks toward the counter where Dick and Barry stare at the tape deck like two concerned doctors, listening to a song that is raw and moody and lyrical -- Minor Threat meets Brian Eno, if that's possible.  Rob joins them in contemplation. 
ROB What is this. 
DICK It's Vince and Justin. 
ROB Who's that? 
BARRY The little skate-fuckers. 
ROB No way. 
BARRY Yes way.  It's really... 
Rob and Dick look at him, ready to pounce -- 
BARRY (pained to say it) It's really fucking good. 
Dick and Barry look to Rob, who continues to just listen... 
He takes a deep breath and walks to the front door and out, seemingly with a mission. 
Vince and Justin are doing noisy skate tricks against the curb across the street.  When they see Rob they stop, get ready to flee.  He walks across to them.  Dick comes out and hovers in the background. 
ROB Your tape.  It's good. 
They mumble thanks. 
ROB It's rough.  But it shows promise. We record a couple of songs right, in a studio.  I'll take care of the rest.  I'll put out your record. Any profits after recouping expenses get split down the middle, between us and you guys. 
VINCE Wait a minute.  Island Records charged U2 a million five against their overhead for one plane ride. 
ROB We're not there yet, Justin. 
VINCE I'm Vince. 
ROB Whatever. 
He begins to move toward the store.  Vince and Justin look at each other.  Rob gets to the door but stops and turns. 
ROB Hey.  What's the name of your band? 
JUSTIN The Kinky Wizards. 
ROB What? 
VINCE We saw this ad in the personals for two swingers lookin' for a Renaissance fair. 
ROB Nice. 
VINCE What's the name of your label? 
Rob looks at them.  Then at Dick.  Then through the window at Barry, inside looking out.  Then at his own reflection in the window.  Then back at them. 
ROB Broken Records.  Welcome aboard. 
Rob walks back inside.  He seems to be shaking a little. 
BARRY What the fuck is that? 
ROB What? 
BARRY I heard you, man.  Don't give me that "what" shit.  You just told them that you're gonna put out a record with them. 
ROB So?  You even said they're good. 
BARRY HELLO.  DO YOU SEE ANYONE ELSE around here with a band, Mr. Branson?  Mr. Phil Spector? 
Rob waves him off and disappears into the stock room.  Laura enters. 
LAURA Hey, Barry. 
INT. ROB AND LAURA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Rob paces, Laura sits on the couch, smiling. 
LAURA I called Dan Koretzky because he -- 
ROB Has Drag City Records, I know, I know.  You told Dan Koretzky about this? 
LAURA Yeah, and he said it's a good way to break out a record.  Especially for what he said, and I quote, "would be a highly anticipated event, locally." He helped me put out a press release. 
ROB WHAT? 
LAURA Just local, of course. 
ROB And the "triumphant return of DJ Rob Gordon?" "Triumphant?" "Return?" 
LAURA I had that idea when I was living with Ian and it was such a good idea that I was annoyed we weren't together anymore.  It might even be why I came back. 
ROB You had no right.  Supposing I was doing something that couldn't be cancelled? 
LAURA What do you ever do that can't be cancelled? 
ROB That's not the point.  I mean, what if the single isn't done in time? 
LAURA Barry said its done. 
ROB Barry?  Barry knows about this? 
LAURA Yeah.  His band is playing a set. 
Rob wheels on her. 
INT. RECORD STORE - DAY 
Rob and Barry. 
ROB Like fuck you are. 
BARRY Laura said we could.  If we helped out with the posters and stuff.  And we did.  And we are. 
ROB I'll give you 10% of the door if you don't play. 
BARRY We're getting that anyway. 
ROB What is she doing?  Okay, 20%. 
BARRY No.  We need the gig. 
ROB 110%.  That's my final offer.  I'm not kidding.  That's how much it means to me not to hear you play. 
BARRY We're not as bad as you think, Rob. 
ROB You couldn't be.  Look, Barry. There's going to be people from Laura's work there, people who own dogs and babies and Tina Turner albums.  How are you going to cope with them? 
BARRY We're not called Barrytown anymore, by the by.  They got sick of the Barry/Barrytown thing.  We're called SDM.  Sonic Death Monkey. 
ROB Sonic Death Monkey. 
BARRY What do you think?  Dick likes it. 
ROB Barry, you're over thirty years old. You owe it to yourself and your friends and to your parents not to sing in a group called Sonic Death Monkey. 
BARRY I owe it to myself to go right to the edge, Rob, and this group does exactly that.  Over the edge, in fact. 
ROB You'll be going over the fucking edge if you come anywhere near me next Friday night. 
BARRY That's what we want.  Reaction.  And if Laura's bourgeois lawyer friends can't take it, then fuck 'em.  Let 'em riot, we can handle it.  We'll be ready. 
Barry wanders off laughing. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ROB AND LAURA'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Rob and Laura. 
LAURA They'll go on early.  Nobody will even be there yet and I told them they can't play for more than a half hour. 
ROB It's no joke.  I'm responsible for what happens, you know.  Embarrassment aside, there's a lot of money and effort in this, at least by my standards.  I have to put down a deposit for the room.  I have to pay the pressing plant for the records, sleeve them, sticker them -- 
LAURA We took care of that. 
Rob's brow furrows. 
CAROLINE Nevermind.  Any five.  So four more. 
ROB What do you mean, four more? 
CAROLINE Well if one of them is this "Sin City" thing -- 
ROB Can I go home and work this out and let you know?  In a week or so? 
CAROLINE Look if you can't think of anything, it doesn't matter.  I'll do one.  My five favorite from the old days at the Dodger. 
Rob is aghast, humiliated, quietly outraged. 
ROB Oh, I'm sure I can manage something... "Sin City." "New Rose," by The Damned. "Hit It and Quit It" by Funkadelic. "Shipbuilding," Elvis Costello, Japanese import, no horns, or different horns, anyway... um... "Mystery Train" by Elvis Presley... And... "Spaced Cowboy" by Sly and the Family Stone.  A bit controversial, I know, but... 
CAROLINE Fine.  That's great. 
ROB Is that it? 
CAROLINE Well, I wouldn't mind a quick chat, if you got the time. 
ROB Sure, but is that it for the list? 
CAROLINE That's five.  So.  Why did you decide to deejay again? 
ROB Well it was a friend's idea, really, and the record release party seemed like a good place to do it.  So... (looking over her pad at the list) I should really put a James Brown in there -- 
CAROLINE Nice friend. 
ROB Yeah. 
CAROLINE What's his name? 
ROB Who?  Oh.  My friend.  My friend is Laura.  A girl.  A friend who's a girl. 
CAROLINE "Music for Old People." What does that mean? 
ROB Look, I'm sorry about this, but I'd like "the Upsetter" by Lee "Scratch" Perry, in there.  Instead of "Sin City." 
She scribbles and writes. 
CAROLINE Okay. "Dance Music For Old People?" 
ROB Oh, you know... a lot of people aren't too old for clubs but they're too old for acid jazz and garage and ambient and all that.  They want to hear old funk and Stax and New Wave and Old School Hip Hop and some new stuff all together and there's nowhere for them. 
CAROLINE And the new label?  And the Kinky Wizards? 
ROB Oh, well, the Kinky Wizards are -- you know what?  Why don't I just make you a tape? 
CAROLINE Would you?  Really?  Wow.  I could have deejay Rob Gordon play in my own home. 
ROB Haha.  Right.  It's no problem.  I love making tapes. 
CUT TO: 
ROB IN HIS CHAIR 
Rob to camera. 
ROB A good compilation tape, like breaking up, is hard to do and takes ages longer than it might seem.  You gotta kick off with a killer, to hold the attention.  Then you have to take it up a notch, but not blow your wad, so maybe cool it off a notch, and you can't put the same artist twice on the tape, except if some subtle point or lesson or theme involved, and even then not the two of them in a row, and you can't woo somebody with Joni Mitchell's "Big Yellow Taxi" and then bash their head off with something like GBH's "City Baby Attacked by Rats," and... oh, there are a lot of rules.  Anyway, I worked hard at this one. 
INT. ROB AND LAURA'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Rob sits Indian-style on the floor in front of the stereo. 
He has a pad of paper with scrawled titles and cross-outs, and is surrounded by piles of CDs and records. 
LAURA Who's that for? 
Rob winces, turns.  He's busted. 
ROB This?  Oh, just that woman who interviewed me for The Reader.  Carol? Caroline?  Something like that. 
Laura turns and walks out of the room. 
INT. RECORD STORE - DAY 
Rob is tucked into the corner, on the phone. 
ROB Hi, Caroline... Oh, it's Rob.  Yeah, listen, I have a new list for you and -- Oh.  Yes.  Of course...  Well maybe next week they could print a, uh, retraction.  Or a correction. Because the list I have now it really much more -- right.  Okay.  Anyway, I have your tape.  That's right. Shall I mail it to you?  Or... would you like to have a drink? 
CUT TO: 
ROB IN HIS CHAIR 
