THE HORSE WHISPERER 
The Horse Whisperer 
Screenplay by Eric Roth 
Revised by Richard LaGravenese 
Screenplay by Erich Roth 
Based on the Novel by Nicholas Evans Revised by Richard LaGravenese 
Second Draft 
FADE IN: 
A DREAM: 
INT. STABLES; PILGRIM'S STALL - MORNING 
Sunlit illuminates the darkened stable, highlighting the contours of a magnificent HORSE (PILGRIM) in surreal, dream- like imagery: his legs, his muscles, his sheen, his mane... his eyes. He shakes his head and stamps his feet. He seems confined. Eager to run. 
INT. STABLES - MORNING 
Pilgrim bursts through the stall and runs out the stables into a blinding white morning. 
EXT. AN OPEN FIELD LEADING TO WOODS - BRIGHT MORNING 
Whiteness. Snow and sky without any discernible line between. 
Camera is POV, as if on the horse, riding through the whiteness. Snow kicks up from the side. We hear the breathing of the horse. As we travel on hills, through trees, we experience of sense of wild, exhilarating freedom. 
We hear the giggles of a GIRL (GRACE) on the horse. An occasional line; 
GRACE (O.S.) Yeah, fly boy... that's it... go... go... go... 
END OF DREAM as we CUT TO: 
INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM - MORNING 
Grace awakens, calmly. Takes a breath. Slides out of bed and stands before a window, overlooking a beautiful Connecticut country house. We see a snow-covered field and distant woods. Grace presses her faces against the cold, frosted window eager to get out. 
INT. MACLEAN NEW YORK APARTMENT - MORNING 
Alarm rings, ANNIE MACLEAN awakens. She shuts the alarm and scoots up in bed. She waits. Seconds later the television across the foot of her bed turns on from a timer -- to a CNN 24 NEWS channel. 
INT. HALLWAY/ANNIE & ROBERT'S BEDROOM - MORNING 
Grace, fully dressed except for her boots, tiptoes past a partially opened bedroom door. Her father ROBERT is asleep, alone, on his huge king size bed. 
INT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE KITCHEN - MORNING 
Grace is putting on her boots on a bench beside a back door. She is wearing her mother's outfit. As she slides the boot on, we see behind her a row of framed photos -- Robert, Grace and Annie in happy times. 
She slaps a note on the refrigerator, with a magnet -- "Gone riding. Back around 10. Love, G." 
EXT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE, BACK ENTRANCE - MORNING 
Grace slips on her jacket and hat as she comes down the steps, her feet hitting the walk... 
EXT. CENTRAL PARK - MORNING 
Annie's feet hit the ground, running -- her breath showing in the cold air. She passes other joggers with ease. She crosses the street and heads for an elegant CPW building. 
INT. MACLEAN'S NEW YORK APARTMENT - MORNING 
Dressed in running clothes, Annie opens the door and picks up several newspapers that were delivered. She carries them into the kitchen and sets them beside a huge stack of publications, magazines, papers, etc... Knowing she must read all of them at some point, she breathes a disgusted sign. She thumbs through the POST as she pours herself a cup of coffee. Something catches her eyes and she snarls: 
ANNIE That little shit! 
She dials a portable phone and moves through the apartment as she talks: 
ANNIE Hi Lucy?... Did I wake you?... Have you read the Post?... They've got a little item about me and Fiske. He's saying I fired him and that I faked the new circulation figures.. Ha, ha... Oh, please... It's the last act of a desperate gnome... Set up a phone call with Don Farlow for 9:30... 
Throughout the phone call, Annie is selecting clothes, turning on the shower, undressing... 
EXT. DYER HORSE FARM - MORNING 
The snow has stopped falling. Grace walks along a hill, hands in pocket. Spread out on the landscape are horses, on a horse farm, standing like statues in the white covered fields. 
As Grace comes along the hill, we see another GIRL (JUDITH) coming from the opposite direction. She doesn't have Grace's lean elegance but her warm, friendly smile brightens her face. Upon reaching her, Grace returns the smile with a hug. 
JUDITH It's warmer than I thought. 
GRACE You want to go to a movie tonight? 
JUDITH I thought your mom's coming up? 
GRACE (prickly) So? 
Judith immediately senses a problem so she continues casually, as they begin walking away from Camera... 
JUDITH My parents are having friends from college over. They're really nice... They have this gorgeous son who wants to be a forest ranger. 
GRACE Can I come? I'll start a fire... 
Judith laughs as they continue talking, their voices trailing off, as the girls head for the stables. 
INT. STABLES, THE DYER HORSE FARM - MORNING 
There are several horses in their stalls. Grace and Judith enter, talking, carrying their English saddles. Judith stops at a stall, disappearing into it as she says "Hello?"..., Grace continues to the end stall. 
Pilgrim (the horse from the dream) stands looking at her. 
GRACE Hello, beautiful boy. 
He's a massive figure beside her but she shows no inhibition. She enters, touching his muzzle. He plays with her by nudging her back. 
GRACE Stop... Will you stop! 
EXT. DYER HORSE FARM - MORNING 
They lead their horses, now saddled and ready, from the barn. Pilgrim tosses his head, prancing, playing with the snow. 
DAVID GOTTSCHALK (VO) Who's there? 
ANNIE Everyone. Working overtime. Just for you. 
DAVID GOTTSCHALK (VO) Did you speak to Farlow? 
ANNIE Yes. We're suing. 
DAVID GOTTSCHALK (VO) Is that absolutely necessary? It'll just make it a bigger story. 
ANNIE David, he signed an agreement that he wouldn't talk to the press and he's libeled me by saying I faked the figures. You're not going soft on me, are you? 
Silence. Gottschalk doesn't immediately respond. Everyone waits. Covert looks between characters suggest this is interesting -- has Annie over-stepped her bounds with the magazine's owner? Annie waits without a shred of anxiety -- even though she might have some. Finally: 
DAVID GOTTSCHALK (VO) Well, I suppose we could use another good public feud... 
ANNIE Exactly... 
Everyone silently acknowledges Annie guts and influence. 
EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - MORNING 
It's perfectly still. We are looking down an empty TWO-LANE ROAD covered with fresh snow. We see the girls slowly riding out of the woods, talking. They cross the road and start up into the woods on the other side... They are trying to sing a LIZ PHAIR song, "CHOPSTICKS" 
GRACE/JUDITH (singing) "I met him at a party and he told me how he like to drive me home... He said he liked to do it backwards..." 
GRACE (singing) "... I said it--" 
JUDITH (singing) "... and I said that"... 
GRACE (stops singing) No, wait, it just goes... "he said he liked to do-"... 
Suddenly there's the SOUND OF THE METAL OF JUDITH'S HORSE scraping on some sheer ice hidden under the soft snow. Judith notices first... 
JUDITH What was -- 
The horse staggers... Judith looks to Grace -- 
JUDITH Grace! 
The horse tries to find tracing with his hindfeet, kicking up sprays of snow and ice shards. The horse suddenly falls on the ice and goes down hard on its knees... 
GRACE JUDITH! 
The horse stumbles to get back on its feet, slipping again. Frightened, it rears and Judith, caught off balance, is thrown, her foot catching in the stirrup... 
JUDITH GRAAACE! 
Her horse, unable to find its balance, starts to slide backward down the incline. 
GRACE PILGRIM, COME ON! MOVE! 
Grace, directly behind Judith, tries to turn Pilgrim to avoid being hit by the errant horse. 
What follows, we see from Grace's perspective. The details that form the images and sounds of Grace's mind are fast, disembodies, almost surreal as -- 
Judith's horse bulldozes into Pilgrim, taking his legs out from under him, sending both horses careening down the icy slope. Grace hangs onto Pilgrim's neck. Judith, her leg helplessly tangled in the stirrup, is dragged, her head bouncing on the frozen ground. 
They slide all the way back down to the COUNTRY ROAD. Pilgrim is the first to find his legs and stand. Grace manages to sit up in the saddle. She sees Judith's horse stumbling back onto its feet, one of his legs broken at the ankles, walking in confused circles, dragging Judith -- her face bleeding, her leg hanging from the stirrup. 
GRACE (frightened) Jude, you okay? 
JUDITH (softly, crying) I'm okay... I'm okay. 
She tries to extricate her leg from the stirrup. 
Grace sees it before she hears it. A GLINT off of steel. We then hear the rumbling SOUND of a TRUCK coming around the bend... The Girls on their horses in the middle of the road... The Truck, an 18 wheeler carrying logging equipment, comes around the turn... Grace grabs the bridle, trying to get Judith's horse out of the road... The driver, seeing them, lays on the air horn. The Horses bolt at the sound, the bridle slipping out of Grace's hand... 
GRACE JUUDE!!! 
... The horses turn apart. The Driver starts furiously downshifting, trying to brake... He seems to get it under control when suddenly THE TRUCK SKIDS on some ice. It begins to slide, out of control, the truck bed and the cab jack- knifing. The truck literally plows over the helpless Judith and her horse -- the horse going down on the pavement, Judith disappearing under him. The truck's cab, like a mythic monster, heads right for Grace and Pilgrim... Grace looks right into the Driver's helpless, frightened eyes... Suddenly, Pilgrim rears up at the truck, sending Grace flying, bouncing her off the pavement and under the wheel of the truck. 
Pilgrim instinctively jumps onto the hood of the truck, his hooves caught between the rear-view mirrors like some grotesque ornament. His head and chest slams into the window, shattering through the glass. 
And then it is still. 
The truck has stopped halfway in the road. Judith's horse lies in the road, motionless. Pilgrim, on the truck's hood, his legs splayed, stuck, his head and chest, bleeding. He shrieks, struggling to get to his feet. He manages to free his legs and, stepping off the cab onto the road, walks off, wounded, in pain, into the sanctuary of the woods... 
The Driver stumbles out of the cab, his head bleeding, in shock. He sits on the ground. All we hear is the sound of the river and the wind in the trees. 
Grace, halfway under the truck, frozen, stares up at the beautiful morning sky. 
WE HEAR THE SOUND OF A HELICOPTER... 
INT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE/KITCHEN - LATER MORNING 
ANGLE ON GRACE'S NOTE on the refrigerator as Robert enters from the outside with two bags of groceries. He places them on the counter near the PHONE MACHINE. He sees ONE MESSAGE is there. He presses PLAY as he puts away the groceries. 
A BEAT LATER the PHONE RINGS and he picks up, with the machine still playing... 
ROBERT (on phone) Hello? Paul, hi -- are you guys back? How was it? Oh that sounds great. Oh Paul.. hold on... 
LIZ (on machine) Robert! Are you there?... Robert! It's Liz!... Look, there's... there's been an accident... Uh... Jesus... uh... 
As Robert listens, the voice of Liz's on the machine from inside, pulls his attention. On hearing "accident," Robert lowers the receiver, frozen, as he listens to Liz... 
LIZ (on machine) Robert, just call me on my call phone... 
EXT. THE WOODS - LATE MORNING 
Pilgrim is hiding in the shadows under an old railroad bridge, standing up to his knees in the river. His chest is cut open, bleeding. His face cut, contorted and swollen. LIZ HAMMOND, the local veterinarian, hides a hypodermic needle in her jacket, quietly walking into the water. 
A Policeman is going into the water downstream from Pilgrim, whose chest is heaving, blood drips into the water. He watches Liz. She is almost to him when suddenly he bolts, running upstream. 
The Policeman behind him shouts and waves his arm. Frightened, Pilgrim wheels back toward Liz, who manages to stick the hypo in his neck. He rears, knocking her down, then runs out of the river, the hypo still in his neck. He runs for the sanctuary of the woods. 
INT. TRAIN - LATE MORNING 
Annie sits on a train -- her laptop out, notes beside her, her cellular phone, ever-ready. The train passes through beautiful countryside but Annie is focused on an editorial she's writing. 
The train pulls into a station and stops, causing Annie to take a break and stretch her arms and neck. She looks out the window for the first time and sees: 
A MAN, his hands in his pockets, waiting on the platform. She watches as the Man holds out his arms to his two young children, who are getting off the train. He picks them up as his wife enters the scene, kissing him and wrapping her arm around his waist. The children talk a mile a minute and the father listens to every word. 
That was too much information for Annie; 
ANNIE Wait, uh, I, I don't understand. Start again -- He's alive... 
LIZ Yes, but he's in a tremendous pain... 
ANNIE Well, of course, right... 
ROBERT What is it? 
LIZ (overlapping) We really shouldn't wait... 
ANNIE (overlapping) Hold on, Liz... (to Robert) Something about Pilgrim... 
The Doctor pokes his head in. 
DOCTOR (overlapping) Mr. and Mrs. MacLean... 
ANNIE (overlapping) -- put him down. She says... 
ROBERT (overlapping, to Doctor) Yes. Hi. (to Annie) Tell her you'll call her back. 
He exits with the Doctor. 
ANNIE Liz, listen, the Doctor's here and I just can't, uh... talk now... so -- 
LIZ (interrupting) I understand, but Annie, please... 
ANNIE (overlapping) - See, what you can do for him --... 
LIZ (overlapping) Annie, no matter what I do, this horse will never be the same. 
ANNIE ... I just don't know right now! Do whatever you can and when Grace is -- 
LIZ It isn't right to make him suffer... 
ANNIE And I can say the same thing about my daughter! But she is suffering! Can you solve that problem! (Liz is quiet) I can't deal with this now, Liz! If you need a yes or no right now, then no -- don't do it! Not until I know Grace is all right. Now, please! Just do what you can. Okay? (softer) Please. 
Liz is stopped by Annie's almost pleading tone. 
LIZ All right... 
They hang up. Annie takes a breath. Robert re-enters. 
ANNIE What did he say? 
ROBERT Nothing new. He's just going off duty. 
Beat. Silence. 
ANNIE I'm going to get all the nurses' names... It's good to know all their names. 
Robert nods. But neither of them moves. They stand motionless for a beat, then Annie begins to break down and eases herself into Robert's arms. 
Robert embraces her, kissing her head, with an almost fatherly comfort. His expression tells us it's the moment he's been expecting... and wanting. Now she'll be all right, in his arms. Whatever distance between them, whatever problems felt insurmountable last night on the phone, are now, for the moment -- for Robert -- gone. 
But Annie's expression tells us something different. Her instinct to hold him was honest... but the effect isn't the same anymore. Something doesn't feel right. Something isn't working anymore about his comforting embrace. 
ANNIE I should go get some of her things. 
ROBERT No, let me go. 
ANNIE (gently pushing away) No, I'll go. You stay... In case she wakes up. 
INT. THE UNIVERSITY ANIMAL HOSPITAL, RECOVERY STALLS - NIGHT 
A line of recovery stalls with various sick and hurt animals. Liz, exhausted asleep, on a chair outside a stall. There's a slight scratching sound. A hoof against the stall. It gets louder, awakening Liz. She gets up and looks inside the paddled stall: 
Pilgrim is lying in the stall, heavily bandaged. He is waking up. His first instinct is to kick at the paddled stall walls. He looks at Liz, his eyes filled with madness -- enraged to still be alive. 
INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM IN FARMHOUSE - NIGHT 
Annie opens the door and enters, flicking on the light. Camera is on her back, as she places a small suitcase on the bed and opens it. She begins her task with cool efficiency. Opening drawers and closets, assessing what should be taken, what isn't necessary. 
Suddenly, she stops. She feels disoriented for a moment. She can't remember the last time she was inside this room. She takes a moment to pause and actually look around. 
In the light, we now see more of Grace's inner sanctum. Horse riding prize ribbons in various colors adorn the walls. Books. A girl's bureau cluttered with teenage possession ranging from childhood toys to items that suggest a reaching towards adulthood. Annie examines some items, affectionately. A GOOD LUCK CHARM from India sits among her things. Annie takes it to pack in the suitcase. 
She notices a framed 8X10 of Grace sitting proudly atop Pilgrim with Judith at her heel. She then notices the edge of another picture behind this one, in the frame. She pulls the Pilgrim photo out to reveal: An old 8X10 of Annie hugging Grace as a toddler. With her back to Camera, Annie remembers: 
MEMORY: 
INT. GRACE'S ROOM - A DAY REMEMBERED 
Annie is playing with toddler Grace. Chasing her around the room. Picking her and tossing her onto a small, toddler bed. Blowing into her stomach. Grace is laughing uncontrollably. 
END OF MEMORY 
Annie slides the Pilgrim picture back into the frame, then returns to her task of packing. 
INT. GRACE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 
Annie enters. No one else is there. She places the suitcase on a chair and opens it. She takes out the INDIAN LUCKY CHARM and some horse books, and places them on her bedside table. She takes care to prop up the Lucky Charm. 
She wets a cloth with some water from a pitcher and gently wipes Grace's sweaty brow... INSERT VISUAL FLASHBACK HERE, instead of in Country House. 
Annie then continues unpacking the suitcase. She opens Grace's closet and sees a hospital bag filled with Grace's clothes at the time of the accident. Annie examines them and discovers they are hers. Annie shoves the clothes into a bag and starts unpacking. 
INT. HOSPITAL CAFETERIA - PRE-DAWN 
The Clock is ticking on the wall. The cafeteria is empty except for one tired Intern, drinking coffee on a break. 
Robert and Annie are having a cup of coffee. In the silence, they search for things to say. Until: 
ROBERT I saw Judith's parents while you were at the apartment... (Annie listens) I wanted to say something... (beat) But I... I was so relieved that Grace was still... that it wasn't our daughter. 
ANNIE We're very lucky. 
ROBERT (nods) The funeral's on Friday. 
He rises and crosses to the self-help coffee dispenser as he continues... 
ROBERT Oh, uh, I meant to tell you... Alex brought that fabric over... 
TOM ... It's always kind of interesting to hear the horse's side of the story... 
The crowd laughs warmly. He directs his comments to a WOMAN wearing an expensive Ralph Lauren western outfit, standing outside the corral... 
TOM Now if he was cranky or lazy, like you say he is, we'd be seeing his tail twitching there and his ears back, maybe. But this isn't a cranky horse, it's a scared horse. You see how braced he is up around the neck back there. He just doesn't know which way to turn... 
The Woman nods. Tom turns the horse on a dime so that he always stays facing the circling thoroughbred... 
TOM You see how he keeps pointing his hindquarters in at me? Well, I'd guess the reason he seems reluctant to move out is because when he does, he gets in trouble for it. 
THE WOMAN He's not good at transitions, you know? When I want him to move from a trot to a lope, say... 
TOM (smiles) Well, I'm sure that's what you think but that's not what I'm seeing. You may think you're asking for a lope, but your body may be saying something else altogether. You might be putting too many conditions on him. For instance, you might be saying "GO, but, hey, don't go too fast." He can tell that from the way you feel. Your body can't lie. You ever give him a kick to make him move out? 
THE WOMAN He won't go unless I do. 
TOM And then he goes and you feel like he's going too fast, so you yank him back? (she nods) And next thing you know, he's bucking. (she nods again) Well, if someone told you to go, stop, go, stop -- you'd buck too. 
The people laugh. The Woman smiles self-consciously. 
TOM It's a dance, see... Somebody has to lead and somebody has to follow. 
Tom gracefully moves his horse around the ring, "dancing". He then takes up a long coiled rope and throws it so that the coils slap against the black horse's flank, making it burst into a lope. And again... Making the animal go from a trot to a lope, letting it slow, then up to a lope again. 
TOM I want him to get so he can leave real soft. He's getting the idea now. He's not all braced up and tense like he was at the start. He's finding out it's okay. 
He throws the rope again and this time the transition to the lope is a smooth one. 
TOM You see that? He's getting better already. Pretty soon, if you work at it, you'll be able to make all these transitions easy on a loose rein. (sotto voce, wry) Yeah, and pigs'll fly. (to Woman) He's going to be okay -- so long as you don't go yanking on him. 
She nods, but he can see she's upset, feeling foolish. He walks the horse over to her, turns off the microphone and speaks sympathetically: 
TOM Look, the truth is it's all about self- preservation. These animals. (with great affection) ... well, they just have such big hearts, you know? There's nothing they want more than to do what you want them to do. But when the messages get all confused, the only thing they know to do is try and save themselves... Now, why don't you go saddle up and see what happens. 
Feeling better, and not a little attracted to his heartfelt man's man, the Woman smiles and reaches for his hand to climb over the rail. Her horse lets her come right up to him and stroke his neck. Tom comments; 
TOM They won't ever hold a thing against you. They're the most forgiving creatures God ever made. 
Turning on his mike and turning back to the crowd, he says: 
TOM Okay, who's next? 
A Young Boy leads a mule into the ring. Tom smiles: 
TOM Now God has another idea entirely with the mule. 
EXT. THE FAIRGROUNDS - LATER THAT DAY 
Tom has finished his "show." People are shaking his hand, thanking him, as he walks away from the corral, towards a trailer. 
The Woman in the Ralph Lauren approaches: 
WOMAN Excuse me. 
He faces the Woman: 
WOMAN Hi. I'm Dale. I just wanted to -- I can't get over the way he felt under me after you'd finish with him. Everything had just, I don't know, freed up or something. 
The Woman is flirting. Tom shrugs, uncomfortably; 
TOM Well, that'll happen. 
WOMAN Where did you learn all this stuff? 
TOM What stuff is that? 
WOMAN About horses? I'd love to learn more about it myself. Do you offer any private lessons for riders? 
TOM (getting the message) Well... Dale... you know, a lot of this stuff... it just... nuts and bolts. 
WOMAN What do you mean? 
TOM Well, if the rider's nuts, the horse bolts. (smiles) That's the whole lesson right there. You have a good day now... Just... keep on freeing yourself up. 
He leaves her, entering the trailer. 
INT. RONA'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
A small, well-used trailer. Tom and Rona are finishing dinner like comfortable old friends. Rona rises, taking the plates into the kitchen and starts rinsing them: 
RONA Oh I clear forget. You had a call from some woman in New York. She sounded pretty wound up. 
TOM I don't any woman in New York. But from what I hear, most of them are wound up. 
RONA The number's by the phone. 
He nods but doesn't move. He just looks at Rona and smiles. She's a good woman. But Tom hopes she doesn't want anymore than what they have together. Rona notices him looking and smiles: 
RONA What are you looking at, young man? 
TOM How long were you married? 
RONA Long enough. 
TOM You ever miss it? 
RONA Does a horse miss a saddle? 
TOM Sometimes. 
She chuckles, shuts the water off and crosses back to him, sitting beside him. 
RONA Well as a matter of fact, I don't... most of the time. 
She starts unbuttoning his shirt. 
TOM You know, Rona, we weren't all that good together even when we were good together. 
RONA Honey... I was always good. 
Tom smiles as Rona leans in. They kiss. 
INT. ANNIE'S OFFICE, N.Y.C. - MORNING 
ANNIE Yeah. 
ROBERT What did he say? 
ANNIE No. 
Robert nods. Accepting. Silence. Annie sips her wine. Then: 
ROBERT I was thinking... Maybe we should think about the three of us going someplace warm... Remember that house we rented in Bermuda... The pink one with the -- 
His arm accidentally spills the wine. 
ROBERT Shit. 
As he bends down to wipe it up with a napkin, Annie watches Robert clean the spill. Something about his movements, his posture -- a sense of weakness, of surrendering, of not having the inclination to fight, of just accepting and smoothing over the rough sports -- strikes her hard. Annie realizes the love she feels for Robert isn't fading. It's gone. 
He finishes cleaning and sits. 
ROBERT What was I saying? 
ANNIE About us going someplace warm... Someplace Grace'll have to wear shorts or bathing suits or summer dresses... 
Robert looks at her and realizes it's a bad idea. He nods, again, getting the message. Silence. In that silence, Annie looks at him... and makes a decision: 
ANNIE Robert, I want to take Pilgrim out to Mr. Booker. Drive him out to Montana... With Grace. 
Robert is confused... and a little worried. 
ROBERT I don't understand. You just said he said no. 
ANNIE He did, but... I think I can change his mind. 
ROBERT That's the craziest thing I ever heard. Absolutely not. 
ANNIE Robert, Grace isn't adjusting to school. And she can't sit in this apartment all day... I think it would be good for her. 
ROBERT (at a loss) NO! What are you -- you're serious about this? 
ANNIE I've called Liz. They can set me up with a trailer for Pilgrim. I thought we'd stay at motels along the way... 
ROBERT (overlapping) You've already made arrangements!? 
ANNIE No. I was just researching. Calm down. 
ROBERT I come home and you tell me we're going to drive a psychotic horse to Montana! I can't just pick up and leave... 
ANNIE I'm not asking you to. I'll do it. 
ROBERT You want to do this by yourself? How? You can't take care of Pilgrim all the -- 
ANNIE He'll be sedated. I know horses, Robert. I'm the one who taught Grace how to ride. 
ROBERT (overlapping) What... Bo-... What about the magazine? 
ANNIE I'm in charge. I went back very soon after the accident. They didn't expect me for a couple of months. I'll just take that time now... I can still oversee things from Montana... Take my fax... My computer... 
Beat. Robert fears this is about the marriage. Yet -- 
ROBERT No. It's, uh... No, I really don't think it's a good idea 
ANNIE Why?! 
ROBERT (searching) Her psychiatrist... said... she needs security now... stability... 
ANNIE I can't say he's been all that effective with her. 
ROBERT Are you a psychiatrist? He said it takes time. 
ANNIE I don't care what he says! We have to do something, Robert! I can't sit here and trust everything's going to work out just by pretending it will. 
ROBERT I'm not pretending anything! 
Beat. Robert just stares at her. He looks concerned... almost worried. Annie gets uncomfortable. 
ANNIE What? 
It is very difficult for Robert to say; 
ROBERT I thought... well, ever since the accident, I just thought we... 
He stops. Annie knows where he headed and prays to God he doesn't continue. He doesn't. A thick silence hangs between them. 
ROBERT I really wish I could understand why you think this is so necessary. 
ANNIE (frustrated) Robert, we're losing her. We're losing her. (he listens) I don't care what the doctors say. The truth is, they don't know anymore than we do -- less, when it comes to Grace... This may not sound sensible or... logical, but nobody's suggesting anything better. I can't explain it, Robert. I just have this feeling... this annoying... bloody feeling that if... if, somehow, Pilgrim can be made all right... then so can Grace. I just know it! 
Robert can feel the strength of her will. He can find no way around it. 
ROBERT What if she doesn't want to go? 
ANNIE She will if you think she should. 
ROBERT And you think it's best if I don't come. 
ANNIE (hesitates) No, that's not what I said. I'm not a dictator. If you feel you should come, then come. Just do whatever you think is right. 
At some moment, they realize Grace is standing at the entrance to the kitchen. They are surprised. 
GRACE I'm not going! I don't care what she says! 
Annie lowers her head. Robert stares at Grace as she walks to him. 
GRACE Daddy?... I don't want to go. 
Grace stands next to Robert. He holds her hands. Annie looks at him, without sympathy. Robert looks back. In his face is the total acceptance of what must be. As well as the sadness of it's inevitability. He looks back at his daughter, whose eyes have never left him. 
EXT. JOAN DYER STABLE - DAY 
Pilgrim is being loaded into the trailer by four strong stable men, violently kicking and pulling all the way. 
Annie watches with anxiety -- an almost giddy Liz by her side. 
ANNIE Maybe we should give him another sedative. 
INT. TRUCK STOP DINER - DAY 
Annie and Grace enter. They look around: 
Formica floors, truckers in caps and beer bellies stuffed into booths or at the counter. There is not a single space available. 
Annie and Grace stand near the entrance. Another Trucker enters and they step aside, huddled together in this foreign land. 
INT. MOTEL IN IOWA - NIGHT 
Grace and Annie enter the room to find A DOUBLE BED instead of two twins. Neither comments. 
Annie exits O.S., carrying the bags inside, as she says: 
DISSOLVE TO: 
ANNIE You should call your dad before it gets too late. 
GRACE I already did. (Annie's surprised) This morning. When you went running. 
ANNIE Oh. You didn't tell me. 
GRACE I didn't know I had to. 
ANNIE (stares angrily, speaks softly) You don't. 
Silence. Annie exits past her to the car. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
LATER 
Grace is asleep in her twin bed. Once again, Annie is wide awake. The clock reads: 4:55 AM. But Annie can not sleep. Camera moves away from Annie, past her side of the bed, to the other side of the room. 
WE SEE THE SHADOW OF A WOMAN coming towards the bed. She comes in camera angle and we follow to her back to the bed, which has now transformed into -- 
A BED FROM THE PAST, IN WHICH A TEN-YEAR-OLD ANNIE IS SLEEPING WITH HER YOUNGER BROTHER GEORGE. 
WE ARE IN MEMORY. 
The Woman gently shakes little Annie awaken. 
WOMAN Annie... Annie, sweetheart... wake up. 
The little girl, with sleep in her eyes, turns and sees her. 
WOMAN Bad news I'm afraid. Your Daddy's gone. 
END OF MEMORY. 
Annie, in present time next to Grace, thinks of this as she stays awake. Putting her jogging parka on over her nightgown, she goes outside. 
EXT. IOWA MOTEL - NIGHT 
She crosses the motel parking lot to the horse trailer. She looks in through the siding at Pilgrim, checking on him. She sees he is caught his halter on the side of the van. She crosses to the trailer door, hesitates, then opens it. Pilgrim looks at her. Gathering her courage, she climbs inside. He is still, looking at her. She carefully frees his halter. And suddenly he bares his teeth, biting at her. She stumbles back out of the trailer, slamming the door shut. She stands leaning against the trailer -- wondering if she's out of her mind for attempting this. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. IOWA MOTEL - LATER THAT SAME MORNING 
Annie is returning from her jog, sweating. As she crosses to her motel room, she stops by the window, looking in to see: 
Grace, on the floor, straining to do her exercises. 
Annie fills with compassion for her girl -- reminded of the struggle she faces everyday. 
EXT. THE BADLANDS - DAY 
In the distance, the Suburban and horse trailer look like a dot on the horizon, moving across the Badlands. 
INT. THE SUBURBAN - ANOTHER TIME, DUSK 
Grace leans against the window in the back, in one of her darker moods. Annie switches radio stations, from Bible thumping to Farm reports. She shuts it off. Silence. 
She sees a ROAD SIGH: "LITTLE BIGHORN NATIONAL MONUMENT". 
ANNIE Grace, look! 
Grace reads the sign. 
ANNIE Would you like to see that? 
GRACE I don't care. 
ANNIE (overlapping) I don't care. 
Annie's comic mimicking, throws Grace off center. 
Annie turns off onto the exit. They drive by a massive casino -- it's neon sign flickering. They drive up a hill past a cafe, two Indians in high crowned Cowboy hats standing outside of the cafe. She drives up a hill towards the parking lot of the Monument... 
ANNIE This'll be nice. We haven't seen any of the sights yet. It's history. When I was thirteen I used to love seeing things like this. 
GRACE You were never thirteen, Mom. 
Annie laughs, taking it as a joke. Grace almost smiles. 
But, Annie drives up to sign only to find a CLOSED SIGN. The park was closed at six. Annie stops the car. She's hit a brick wall once more. Silence. Finally, Grace speaks with her usual sarcasm; 
GRACE Great idea. So now what? 
Beat. Annie's patience snaps; 
ANNIE How long is this going to go on? 
GRACE What? 
ANNIE You know what I mean? (turns to the back seat) Is this it now? Is this the way we're going to be from now on? 
Ignoring her, Grace edges to the passenger side and exits the car. Annie gets out of the driver's side and walks around as she speaks: 
ANNIE Do you want us to turn around and go back home? Do you? 
GRACE What are you asking me for? You didn't ask me if I wanted to come in the first place -- now I get to decide? Forget it! 
Tom and Frank don't say anything. Just nod, knowingly. 
JOE He says if you do it soon as they're born, it makes them real easy to handle later on. 
FRANK That's what some folks say. 
JOE There was this thing on the TV about a guy who does it with geese. He has this airplane and these baby geese all grow up thinking it's their mom, and he flies it and they just follow. (to Tom) You hear 'bout that, Uncle T? 
TOM Yeah, I hear about that. 
JOE Well, what do you think about that stuff? 
TOM Well, Joe, I'll tell ya -- I don't know a whole lot about geese. Maybe it's okay for them to grow up thinking they're airplanes. But horses, as far as I can tell, can't fly. 
Frank laughs. Joe smirks as Tom messes his hat up. There's the sound of a car. They turn. 
The Suburban is coming over the ridge, heading down the driveway in a cloud of dust. 
JOE We expecting company? 
Frank shakes his head. As the Suburban slows down, Tom recognizes the driver. 
TOM I don't believe it. 
FRANK You know her? 
Annie, out of her element, hiding behind sunglasses, gets out as Tom approaches her by himself. Annie girds herself for the confrontation. 
ANNIE Hello, Mr. Booker. Annie MacLean. From New York. We talked on the phone. 
She extends her hand. TOM shakes it, nodding, staring at her curiously. 
ANNIE It's, uh... beautiful country. I had a little bit of a hard time finding the place. There are no signs. 
TOM Plenty of signs -- just none of them printed. Who do I get the idea you're not just passing through! 
ANNIE Well... OK... here it is... Uh... I'd like you to take a look at my horse. Now -- it won't take long and if, after that, you still don't feel... 
TOM Were you thinking of personally driving me back East? 
ANNIE Oh no. She's here. I brought him along. And my daughter, too. We're staying at Peterson's... 
TOM You mean you hauled him all the way out here? Just like that? 
ANNIE (slightly taken aback) Well... yes... I had a trailer. It's not like I made him run along side of the car. 
TOM All by yourself? 
She nods. Tom cannot help be impressed by her guts and fortitude. 
Camera cuts away for a moment to a window in the ranch house, through which DIANE -- Frank's fiery, loyal pioneer wife -- looks at the duo with suspicion. 
TOM I uh... ha, ha... I don't think I ever met a lady quite like yourself and I appreciate all the pains you've gone through to -- 
ANNIE Look! Please! Don't do the "shucks, ma'am" thing again! (Tom, surprised, listens) I've driven a few thousand miles for a few minutes of your time. I've brought him here -- to your neck of the... (seeing no woods) -- mountains. Just take a look at him. If you still feel the same way, I'll be on the road by morning and you'll never see me again. OK? Deal? 
Tom tries to hide a smile of respect. Annie, thinking she may have him, starts backing away towards her car -- as one would a dangerous animal they think they might have tamed... 
ANNIE We're at Peterson's. Whenever you're free. You don't even have to call. 
She gets into the Suburban. Tom watches her drive off. 
EXT. ANNIE AND GRACE'S COTTAGE - DAY 
Tom walks up some wooden steps to a door and knocks. He hears a TV on inside. And Grace's Voice: 
GRACE (O.S.) MOM! The door! 
He hears Annie's muffled reply from O.S. He hears some banging as Grace fumbles for her crutch and comes to the door. She opens it only so far as to reveal her upper body: 
GRACE Yeah? 
TOM Uh, I'm Tom Booker. Your mother around? 
Grace hops to the side as Tom walks by her, into the room. Grace is closing the door as he turns to see, for the first time, that Grace is one leg. 
GRACE She'll be right out. She's on the phone. 
Grace hops back to the bed in front of the TV. Tom nods and puts his hat down -- noticing the prosthetic leaning against the window, near her bed. He hears Annie on the phone and looks to the other room, the door ajar -- seeing only her legs, seated on the edge of her bed, as she talks. Her foot taps impatiently. 
TOM First time in Montana? 
Grace, rudely nods, still looking at the TV. 
Beat. Tom doesn't like her manner, but can easily see through it. He sits. 
TOM She gonna be long? 
GRACE Probably. She's on the phone twenty- three hours a day. 
TOM What does she do? 
GRACE She's an editor. 
TOM Mmm. An editor. 
GRACE Not like books or literature or anything. Just a magazine... Just in case she hasn't told you -- which I'm sure she hasn't -- I don't want to be a part of this, OK? 
Tom just sort of nods. A beat or two later, Annie enters. 
ANNIE Sorry about that. Hi. Grace, this is Mr. Booker... Have you looked at Pilgrim? 
Tom sees Grace turn away, just as Annie enters. He takes a moment. He could say no right there, but something stops him. 
TOM Uh, no. I was gonna take a look now. 
ANNIE You want us to come with you? I just have to run to the main house and give Mr. Peterson a check. 
TOM Doesn't matter. 
ANNIE Grace?... Grace, you want to come with us, take a look at Pilgrim? 
Grace keeps looking at the TV. No reply. Tom is half way out the door when he says to Annie -- making sure Grace can hear -- 
ANNIE ... the phone company's putting in extra lines. I'll call back with the numbers. Oh, and I want you to get in touch with this lady in town here -- they say she's sort of a physical therapist for the rodeo boys but keep the one at the hospital we already contacted on call... 
Grace sits alone in the living room. Watching TV, but anxious and disturbed about what she's committed herself to. 
INT. DOUBLE DIVIDE KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 
Diane is in her bathrobe doing bills at the kitchen table, as she listens to a BOOK OF TAPE. Her hand on her forehead, her other hand writing. Tom enters to take his hat off the sideboard. He moves to the table and reaches over for a cookie from a plate of cookies. Without looking up, Diane slaps his hand. Tom then pours himself a cup of coffee... then swiftly sneaks his hand back and grabs a cookie. Diane smiles. Tom exits. 
It is only then that Diane looks up after him. 
INT. UPPER FLOOR OF RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT 
Camera follows Tom towards his bedroom --  passing the others. Perhaps we see Frank sprawled out asleep already in his underwear. We might see the Twins in their bunks. One of the Twins' lower torso is laying outside of the blanket. He casually flips the blanket over the kid's bare feet and continues to his room. 
INT. TOM'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Tom enters and closes the door. Turns on a stereo which plays a cello piece by Yo-Yo Ma. Books fills his room. He sits at his desk, puts on eye glasses and looks through some paperwork. Suddenly he stops, looking over the paperwork, into space. A thought passes by. We don't know what. 
FADE OUT: 
EXT. THE RANCH, A CORRAL - DAYBREAK 
First light of day. Pilgrim stands stock still in the middle of the corral. Tom, motionless, is crouched on his haunches in the corral -- watching him. 
TOM'S POV: As Pilgrim moves, he can see that the horse is stove up. 
He softly tosses a handful of dirt at Pilgrim's withered legs... Pilgrim, sensitive to the slightest provocation, bucks, wheeling away from him. Then stops. Tom sits on his haunches again... and watches him. 
Frank appears, exiting from the barn (perhaps). 
FRANK Tom? 
TOM Yeah. 
Tom leaves Pilgrim, hooking up with Frank -- the two brothers go off, discussing the ranch work that is ahead of them. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. THE RANCH - ANOTHER DAY 
Annie and Grace arrive in the Suburban. They exit. As they head towards the ranch, they see in the distance: 
Pilgrim standing along the fence of a round pen. Tom stands in the pen, holding a rope, looking at Pilgrim. 
EXT. THE ROUND PEN - DAY 
Tom stands in the pen with Pilgrim. He looks to see Annie and Grace approaching but makes no acknowledgement. He turns his focus back to Pilgrim. 
Annie and Grace appear. Grace takes a position (that is to become her regular spot) a distance away from the pen. Annie moves in closer, beside SMOKEY (a ranch hand) with one leg up on the pen fence. 
SMOKEY Howdy... (sees Grace) Howdy. 
He and Annie watch as Tom stands before Pilgrim -- turning sideways... then standing... 
ANNIE What's he doing? 
SMOKEY Trying to get his eye. 
ANNIE How's it going? 
Smokey doesn't respond -- how it's going is exactly how it looks. Tom takes a few steps, stops and stands still again. We sense the process is long and requires great patience. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. ROUND PEN - DAY 
Two hours later. Grace is in the same spot. Smokey is gone, doing his work. Annie has taken a different position, looking over SEVERAL PAGES OF FAXES on her lap. 
Tom is still standing in the pen trying to get Pilgrim's eyes. 
Joe has joined the proceedings, sitting on the pen rail. 
Tom deftly throws a hoolihan, gently lassoing Pilgrim around the neck. And Pilgrim, at the touch of the rope, crazed, resists, pulling back, striking at the rope... The rope cutting into Tom's hands. Tom gives him some slack, giving his head, letting him relax... then gently heads him by the rope, walking him around the pen, getting his feet to moving. 
Grace's eyes never leave Tom. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY 
Tom, off in the distance -- against a sky that seems to be touching the land -- is riding along a creek. Closer up, we see he's rustling the bushes with a stick. Some stray cows run out of the bushes. Tom races after them. His horse shepherds the cow across the creek and up a hillside. 
At the top of the hill, with the ranch spread out endlessly before him, Tom sees Frank on his horse, chasing strays. Tom whistles. Frank waves back. In the near distance, a pickup truck is parked on the range. 
Joe and the TWINS are throwing food pellets out of the back of the truck. Cattle come from across the range for the food. What begins as a handful of cows becomes dozens, then hundreds -- the truck virtually disappearing among them. 
Tom stops for a moment to look out at his ranch. Far off in the distance, he sees Annie's Suburban coming along the road to the ranch. He watches as Annie's distant figure gets out of the car with Grace. Annie instinctively turns and looks across the land. Even though there is such a distance, there's a sense Tom and Annie are looking at each other. 
Tom senses Joe driving Frank's truck, slowly moving off the range -- the Twins in the back, the cattle following. Tom sits on his horse atop the hill. 
EXT. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE - ANOTHER DAY 
Pilgrim, his scarred head above water, legs moving in odd sycopation, swimming. We discover he is in a pond, tethered to a pole... Except for the sound of his legs in the water, everything is quiet and focused on Pilgrim. 
SMOKEY, holds the pole, walking on the outside of the pond, leading Pilgrim back and forth as he swims. Tom, crouched by the pond, silently concentrating on Pilgrim... 
Grace watches, off by herself... Annie stands beside Joe. She can't help but be intrigued by the sight. She asks Joe; 
ANNIE I though horses were afraid of water? 
Joe doesn't answer her. Grace likes that. Annie, frustrated, feels she has the right to simple shout out to Tom. 
ANNIE Is that to get his strength back? 
Tom pays her no mind -- concentrating on Pilgrim. 
Suddenly, Annie's CELL PHONE rings, jarring the proceedings. Tom turns to Annie. She hides her embarrassment by answering it, walking away. Tom gives her a look. Grace is loving this. Tom turns back to Pilgrim. After a few moments -- 
Tom, taking the rope tether, unhooks it from the pole. He starts to lead Pilgrim out of the water. Pilgrim, fearful, fights him. He rears, splashing Tom, not wanting to come out of the water. Grace is worried. She looks to Joe and sees he is concerned too, though he stands quietly. 
Annie hears the commotion from where she stands and finishes her call to return to the pond. 
Tom enters the pond, waist deep in water, trying to grab Pilgrim's rope. Pilgrim rises up, rearing at him. Joe and Smokey, sensing danger, come closer to the pond. Annie appears beside Grace and watches as Tom reaches for the rope again. Pilgrim rears again. Tom stumbles backwards from his hooves. Annie gasps. Grace turns to walk away from the pond. She can't watch -- it brings back too much. But as she does, she is stopped by the sight of -- 
DIANE Sure. (seeing Grace in car) Does your daughter want to come inside? 
ANNIE Uh, no, we're going to dinner... Is this the way to the pasture? 
DIANE Pasture? Oh, that stretch of field near the hill? Yeah. 
She's gone. Annie grimaces, then crosses the hillside to where Tom is squatting down. She appears to his side and, without speaking, tries to indicates she has his coffee by leaning it toward him. Tom sees her and accepts it with a grateful nod. Annie waits. Nothing happens. Feeling foolish, she begins to walk back. 
At some point, she turns to see Pilgrim moving across the pasture toward Tom. He stops in front of him, just a few feet away. Tom says something to him. Annie is intrigued -- and she knows enough to stay quiet now. She watches Pilgrim walk over to him. She watches as Tom gets up and pats Pilgrim's scarred head. In spite of herself, Annie is somewhat moved by this act. 
Only we see Grace, peering out from the car, seeing this act of communion as well. Only we see her reaction to it. 
As Tom turns and walks back to the ranch, Pilgrim follows him. As he passes Annie, all he says is... 
TOM From now on, leave your phone somewhere else... 
As he moves past her, Annie responds; 
ANNIE But I have business calls I have to -- 
Tom keeps heading for the barn as he suggests, without turning back; 
TOM Then drop off Grace in the morning, go on back and do your business. Come pick her up around dinner. 
Standing there, Annie has the impulse to respond to this suggestion, but has no idea what to say and saying it wouldn't make much sense since Tom is already out of ear shot. 
Diane appears from the house and calls out: 
DIANE Mrs. MacLean -- why don't you and daughter stay for dinner? 
ANNIE Oh uh, thank you. No, we don't want to impose. 
DIANE No imposition. Plenty of food. Gonna get pretty dark soon. Hard to find a place. 
Annie looks up to the alien sky and realizes she's right. She looks to Grace, who doesn't seem to oppose the idea. 
INT. RANCH HOUSE/KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Everyone sits around the kitchen table. Joe, still wearing his hat, eyes Annie and Grace with acute curiosity. 
DIANE Joe, take off the hat -- I'm not going to say it again. 
Joe obeys. Diane puts the last of the serving plates on the table -- pork chops, potatoes, gravy, peas, bread... And a big bowl of mixed salad. The boy can't help eyeing how the "vegetarians" will act. 
Annie and Grace eye the food. Annie reaches out for a serving ladle, picking up Grace's plate to serve her as Grace reaches for a piece of bread, when: 
FRANK Dear Lord, we are humbly thankful for... 
Annie and Grace freeze as Frank continues his prayer -- they notice everyone's head bowed slightly. 
FRANK (continues) these gifts. For the blessings on our home, our family and our guests. Bless those that aren't as fortunate. Bless all God's creatures. 
EVERYONE Amen. 
Everyone begins eating. Annie and Grace breath a sigh of relief. Silence. Utensils hitting plates, the only sound. 
FRANK Bank out us a couple more men to run the cattle. 
TOM We should be fine, then. 
Beat. Annie and Grace listen... 
JOE Teacher asked me why we raise Black Angus-Herefords 'stead of Pure Herefords. 
FRANK Tell her they suit the weather better. Their udders are black, 'stead of pink. 
TOM They don't get burned by the sun bouncing off the snow. And they're good mother. 
FRANK Our daddy raised Pure Herefords. 
Silence... Eating... Annie tries her hand at conversation: 
ANNIE You know, that's interesting. I always wondered when I went into a restaurant what was the difference between a regular steak or a Black Angus steak. I couldn't taste any difference although I could swear one was more tender. I didn't know there was that big a difference between cows... (silence) I've never been on a cow farm before. I must say, the bulls seem to have the best time of it. Just laying around the fields all day until they're asked to... (uncomfortable) do their... work. 
FRANK Well, get born a bull, got a ninety percent chance of getting castrated and served up as hamburger. On a balance I reckon I'd choose being a cow. (to Grace) Would you mind passing that salad young lady? 
DIANE How's Peterson's holding up for you? 
ANNIE (lying) It's fine. Comfortable. I still can't get used to how dark it gets around here, though. When we leave the ranch, I always hold my breath until I can see the motel. 
FRANK (innocently) You know, Tom, while you're working on that horse of theirs, Annie and Grace should move into the old Creek house. 
Diane and Tom react accordingly; Diane hiding her annoyance, Tom hiding his surprise and pleasure. 
FRANK Nobody's using it. Silly for her to be driving back and forth when she don't know her way around that well... 
ANNIE Oh, I don't know... 
FRANK Well, I know Peterson's. Old place is as good as falling down around your ears. 
DIANE (overlapping) They're already all settled in, Frank. Anyway, I'm sure Annie wants her privacy. 
FRANK It's got doors, Diane. Private as can be. Tom? 
TOM I don't have a problem with that. It's up to Annie. 
ANNIE Well, it's worth it, really? I mean, how much longer do you think you need to work with Pilgrim? 
TOM That's up to Pilgrim. 
Everyone waits on Annie's answer as she considers this. 
INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Grace is on the phone with Robert. Annie is packing things up. Grace is telling him about the day; 
GRACE (listens) I know. Me, too. Why don't you come one weekend? 
Annie reacts to this. 
GRACE We'll have more room because we're moving onto the ranch. They have this empty house near this creek. It's actually pretty... OK... I love you. (to Annie) Dad wants to talk to you. 
ANNIE (takes the phone) Hi. 
ANNIE (to Grace) You got everything you need? 
GRACE If I had everything I need, I wouldn't be going to physical therapy. 
Tom approaches as he overhears Grace respond; 
ANNIE (trying to cheer her) Honey, come on. Would you like to stay in town for dinner? Maybe see what movie's playing tonight? 
GRACE Why? There's no food in the house? 
ANNIE No. I just thought... forget it. 
He's getting a clearer view of their relationship. 
TOM You know, we're branding here tomorrow. If you two want to come by to watch or give a hand, you're welcome. 
ANNIE (laughs) Branding? (sarcastic) I haven't branded in years. 
Tom chuckles. 
GRACE I'll come. 
ANNIE Uh, I don't, honey. Branding? Oooh... I think we'd just be in Mr. Booker's way. 
TOM As long as you don't get in the way of the branding iron, it doesn't matter too much. 
Annie smiles. She turns to Grace, questioningly. Grace says matter-of-factly, to prove her point. 
GRACE I watched Margo Neuberger get a tattoo. 
Tom squints. Annie shrugs and nods. 
ANNIE Okay. 
As Grace and Annie walk to the car, Tom says: 
TOM Hey, Grace -- maybe we can get your mom to put me and you branding on the cover of her magazine. Start a whole new fashion craze. 
They continue walking as Grace smiles, enjoying being singled out for his joke. Annie responds, almost flirtatiously. 
ANNIE Try not to fall off your high horse, Mr. Booker. 
Tom tips his hat and rides away... Annie smiles and nods... Grace doesn't like their sudden familiarity. Or her mother's coy manner. As they enter the Suburban, Grace asks point blank; 
GRACE Did you call Dad today? 
Annie is caught off guard. 
Tom, riding in the arena, catches himself looking after them... then goes riding after Pilgrim. 
EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY 
The air smells of scorched flesh. There is nothing but NOISE. Calves, separated from their mothers, "cry." They are moved out through a series of connected pens into a narrow chute, and then one by one into a holding pen. They're clamped and lowered sideways onto a table and given a shot, a yellow insect tag in one ear, branded, then sent back to their mother's. The bulls, in a pen by themselves, stand haughty, paying no attention. Frank helps "doctor" the calves. Joe brands. 
Annie and Grace are standing by the railing, watching with a mixture of fascination and disgust. 
Tom moves in the feeder pen, waist deep in calves, moving them through the chute. He looks to Annie. 
TOM Hey, over there, you want to make yourself useful? 
It isn't a question. 
TOM Hank, I got you a volunteer! 
Annie and Grace realize they have no choice. 
-- WHAT FOLLOWS IS A SEQUENCE OF SCENES SHOWING ANNIE AND GRACE PARTICIPATING IN THE BRANDING. AND HOW THEY GRADUALLY COME TO LOSE THEMSELVES IN THE EXPERIENCE. 
SEQUENCES WILL INCLUDE: 
-- HANK, A RANCH HEAD, HELPING ANNIE INTO THE CHUTE... ANNIE GETTING KICKED BY A CALF. 
-- GRACE BEING SHOWN HOW TO HOLD THE BRANDING IRON. 
-- HANK TEACHING ANNIE HOW TO SAY "HYAH!!"... 
-- TOM IN THE HOLDING PEN WITH HIS ARMS AROUND GRACE, SHOWING HER HOW TO APPLY THE BRAND... GRACE, A LITTLE FRIGHTENED OF THE BRAND, IS IN HEAVEN IN TOM'S ARMS... 
-- ANNIE IS STILL TRYING TO SAY "HYAH"!! WITH THE PROPER FORCE. SHE CLAPS HER HANDS, PUSHING THE CALVES ALONG, KNEE DEEP IN COW SHIT. 
-- GRACE CLOSES HER EYES AND THE IRON TOUCHES THE CALF'S HIDE. 
TOM That's good... firm but gentle... (Grace opens her eyes) It hurts but he'll get over it. 
Grace smiles proudly. 
TOM You handled that pretty well. Think it's time you earn your keep around here. So, when we're not working and when you don't have your therapy, I'd like you to help out with the horses... Rubbing them, cleaning up the stalls... You think you can handle that? 
Grace knows him well enough to know; 
GRACE That's not a question, is it? 
TOM You're catching on. 
Grace smiles. 
-- Annie turns and, not looking where she's doing, trips over a calf, falling down. And calves, coming down the chute, start to run towards her. Suddenly, Tom grabs her by the leg and pulls her to safety. He helps her up and dusts her off. 
TOM (not wanting to smile, but...) You okay? 
ANNIE It is cocktail hour yet? 
Tom laughs. She takes a big breath. 
EXT. THE RANCH - LATE AFTERNOON 
The ranch is colored in amber light. 
Near the house, two long tables pushed together to make one long one... A gentle breeze ruffles the tablecloth. Everyone is seated for a meal. We hear laughter and conversation... We parachute into the middle of the moments; 
-- Hank helping with his wife get to their three children to sit still for dinner... 
-- Diane organizing the women and their various plates of side dishes... 
ANNIE She calls him Tommy... 
DIANE Always did. I think she favored him a little. You tend to when you have more than one, even though you love 'em all the same. 
She studies the old faces of Tom's Parents -- although 20th Century people, there is still a pioneering strength in their visage... a stoicism and power. 
DIANE (putting away forks) Ha, she loves telling this story about how when he was two years old, he ran off. They found him in the barn, sleeping between two giant hooves of a Percheron stallion. She said that horse was protecting him and nobody could convince her otherwise. 
ANNIE I got a little confused though. The ranch Ellen was talking about -- that's not this one? 
Diane is sorting silverware throughout the following: 
DIANE No. See, Frank and Tom were raised near the Clark's Fork River, right between the Pryor and Beartooth Mountains. Beautiful piece of land. But they had this uncle Ned -- useless man, never interested in ranching. And when the grandparents died, he left for the city and sent word through lawyers he wanted his claim to the land so he could sell it. Three years of legation broke their father. Frank took it all in stride, but Tom... Tom loved that land. I don't think he ever got over it -- His home being sold out from under him. Seeing his father like that. Once he and Frank got their folks set up in a new place, Tom left... went off. We didn't see him for years... 
Annie is intrigued by what she's learning about Tom. Something outside the window catches her eyes. She watches: 
POV; Tom and Frank, on either side to Ellen, are escorting her to a car that will drive her home. 
EXT. RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT 
Annie wanders out, passing Grace and Joe on her way out. The two are sitting in a glider. As Annie exits O.C., we hear them; 
GRACE Why do you always wear that hat? 
JOE Because it fits my head. You want to try it on? 
Grace doesn't know if she should. 
Annie continues towards Tom who's sitting in a rocker playing with the twins. 
TWINS Show us again! Come on! One more time! It's my turn now! 
TOM All right, al right. Hold out your finger. 
Annie takes a seat nearby and watches as Tom holds out the first finger of his right hand. The Twins holds out his. Tom splits his focus between Annie and the Twins as he takes a small piece of rope out of his back pocket. He ties the ends together making a loop. He puts the loop over the Twin's finger. And holding the other end of the loop taut with his left hand, he draws one side of the cord over the other with the middle finger of his right hand. Then he rolls his hand over so it's under the loop, and back over it again, so that his finger is tip to tip with the Twin's. The loop seemingly knotted around their touching fingertips, and can only be removed if their touch is broken. 
TOM The loop's knotted, right. (Twins nod) Looks like the only way to take it off, is if we break our touch... (they nod) Watch now... 
Annie and the Twins look down at the touching fingers as Tom gently pulls the rope away, revealing they are still knotted, and without even breaking their touch... 
TWINS Again! Again. One more time! 
TOM Oh, no. No, no. I only fall for that once. Go inside now before your mother starts hunting you down. Go on. 
The Twins exit. Annie and Tom make eye contact. 
TOM (smiles, relaxes back) So how was your first and last day of branding? 
ANNIE Don't be so sure it's my last. There are a few people back home I'd like to put under a red hot iron. 
Tom looks at her with a sly expression, and notices she's shivering. 
TOM You got too much sun today... Here... 
He takes his jacket and puts it around her shoulders. 
ANNIE Thank you. 
He sits back down. Annie crosses her arms over her chest, looks around, unconsciously swinging her foot. Tom watches her leg. Annie notices him watching; 
ANNIE What? 
TOM You ever just stand still for a minute? 
ANNIE You stand still too long in New York you get hit by a bicycle messenger. (smiles wryly) You know, sometimes, I get the feeling, Mr. Booker, that you're laughing at me. Why is that? 
Tom shrugs. Annie waits a beat, then: 
ANNIE That's your cue to say you're not laughing at me. 
TOM Oh, I see, you write both sides of the conversation? 
ANNIE It's a man's world, Mr. Booker. Most women have to. 
TOM Well, maybe I am laughing a bit... I just thought, as long as you're here, it would be nice for you to relax into the place a little. 
ANNIE (understanding) Well... It's beautiful country, I'll give you that. And I could see having some kind of vacation place. Retreat. But I don't know how you do it full time. Don't you miss the rest of the world? 
TOM What's that to miss? 
ANNIE Ha... if you've never lived in a city with museums, theater, music, restaurants, uh... god, a million things, then it's something I can't explain. 
TOM (thinks, teasing a bit) Does Chicago count? 
ANNIE (surprised) You lived in Chicago? 
TOM When I was first married. 
ANNIE (stunned) You were married to a woman in Chicago? 
Tom likes disturbing her picture of him as the predictable cowboy. He smiles; 
TOM I once heard Itzhak Perlman guest star with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. He played Rachmaninov's Vocalize Opus 34. No. 14. It was one of the most beautiful pieces of music I ever heard. I actually forgot where I was for a time. (Annie is floored) You seem surprised? 
ANNIE (not wanting to insult) Well, I, uh... you didn't... 
TOM Just who's been laughing at who here? 
Tom says this with a wry smile. Annie returns with a smile -- as an understanding is reached between them: they've both stereotyped the other. They are both pleased -- and attracted -- by what they don't know. 
INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT 
Grace is fast asleep, exhausted. She does not stir when the phone rings. 
Annie picks up from her own bed, awakened, still dressed in her branding clothes, having just passed out on the bed. 
ANNIE Hello? 
INT. CENTRAL PARK WENT APARTMENT - NIGHT 
INTERCUT: Robert, alone, in the vast apartment. 
ROBERT I thought you guys were going to call me. 
ANNIE How long did you live here with your wife? 
TOM Five years. My son was born here. 
ANNIE (opens her eyes) Son? 
TOM Yeah. I haven't seen him in a while. He used to come to the ranch over summers, but then he started having friends and was going off to college, so... Good boy. Hal. Lives in New York near his mom. 
ANNIE How did you meet her? 
TOM College. In Illinois. She was playing the cello. I hadn't heard cello music growing up. She had the reddest hair, the bluest eyes. When she played, it was... 
Tom can't find a beautiful enough word. But Annie understands. 
TOM She was the most beautiful thing I'd ever seen. 
Annie sees Tom as if with new eyes -- his love for this woman he lost. 
ANNIE Why didn't it work out? 
TOM She was never really happy here. She did the best she could. 
Annie looks at him and for the first time senses a kinship -- an understanding they both have of being torn between two worlds... a desire for home... 
TOM Grace told me you have a country house in Connecticut. Sounds like a beautiful place. 
ANNIE It is. It's lovely. 
TOM Ever think of moving there full time? 
ANNIE We did at one point. When we thought we'd have more children. And we after tried. We tried everything, but... wasn't meant to be. 
There is an awkward silent beat for a moment. Annie is momentarily self-conscious. Tom helps by speaking of himself; 
TOM I hear that! See, I knew she was never going to be a ranchest, but I wanted to try -- I thought maybe she'd give music lessons to the kids in town or at the school, maybe even recitals. My son would grow up here. Maybe have one or two more. I'd teach 'em what I could. They'd play with my brother's kids. All grow up together. And even if they all decided to go out into the world, they'd always know where home was -- cause we'd keep it for 'em... 
ANNIE That's very important to you, isn't it? Home. 
TOM Yeah, I think it is. And I don't mean everybody's got to be married, have kids -- It's more like, knowing where you're from, where you belong, what feeds you, where you can go no matter what happens... Knowing what you're supposed to be doing while you're here. 
ANNIE How did you find out all that? 
Tom looks right into her eyes and confesses without a shred of self-consciousness. 
TOM I got lost. 
They smiles. 
EXT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT 
The world is in silhouette. Off in the distance, we see Tom standing by his horse, offering his hand to Annie, helping her off. There's an awkward moment, neither of them wanting the day, or the moment, to end. 
INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT 
Grace is standing by the window, looking out at them. Their movements indicate an intimacy that upsets her. 
EXT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT 
After a beat; 
Tom gets back on his colt. He takes Rimrock's reins and leads him off. Annie stops for a moment, watching him ride away... 
She watches her mother walk towards the house; 
INT. CREEK HOUSE - MOMENT'S LATER 
Grace watches her mother stand there a moment, then turn and walk towards the house. Grace moves away from the window, her emotions churning -- jealousy, anger -- and enters her bedroom, shutting the door. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. THE PASTURE - EARLY MORNING 
Joe, hat tipped low, is riding his horse, leading some young horses, exercising them in the morning pasture. He sees Grace, walking with her cane, coming across the pasture. 
JOE (shy) Hi... 
She stops. After a beat; 
GRACE Would you let me ride your horse? 
JOE (hesitates) Have you talked to Tom about it? 
GRACE Of course I have. 
JOE (beat, then:) I don't know... You sure Tom said it's all right? 
She nods. He hesitates. 
GRACE Are you going to give me a hand or aren't you? 
He gets off his horse and holds it. She puts down her cane, then puts her hand on the saddle horn. She puts her prosthetic leg into a stirrup. Frightened, she starts to shake; 
JOE You sure? 
Angry, determined, Grace tries to swing her leg onto the horse. She can't do it. Tears of frustration on her face. She tries again. She manages to pull herself halfway on, her prosthetic leg buckles and she falls. Frightened, Joe runs to her. 
JOE You okay? 
She gasps to catch her breath. He reaches to help her up. She pulls her hand away. Embarrassed, she "runs" off. Joe remains still. He hears a little VOICES. He turns and sees the TWINS having been watching the whole thing from a small hill. As they run off, he yells, threateningly. 
JOE You better not say anything!!! 
EXT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT 
We follow Joe running towards the creek house, fastening a good shirt. He's dressed and cleaned for dinner. He's late. 
INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT 
Annie is in the midst of making a spaghetti dinner. She's a little frazzled but she's on top of it. Grace enters wearing a lovely dress -- it is the first time we have seen her in a dress. Annie hears her enter before she sees her, asking; 
ANNIE Honey, would you see if anybody wants -- 
Annie notices Grace standing there, in her dress. She stops. 
GRACE It's from a jar. 
There's an odd silence as a deflated Annie serves Frank. 
FRANK Thank you. 
Finally, Diane saves it. 
DIANE Well, I tried jar sauce once -- wasn't this good. Ya gotta know which brand to buy. I'd like to get the name of this one. 
Annie is grateful. Grace feels foolish. 
TWIN (SCOTT) Can we see the dead body on the screen? 
DIANE What? 
GRACE It's just my computer. 
DIANE Oh, I don't -- 
ANNIE It's okay. Grace, show them. I'm going to put the coffee on. I made an apple tart for dessert. 
The Twins excitedly move to the computer. Joe waits for Grace. 
DIANE I'll help you with the coffee. 
ANNIE Well... I know I should reject that offer, but I'm not going to. 
DIANE (jovial) No reason you should, no reason you should. 
They exit into the kitchen. Frank continues eating. 
Tom looks around -- Grace showing the boys the computer. Annie and Diane in the kitchen. For a second, we see Tom realize an image of the life he once thought he could. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
As Diane and Annie prepare coffee and dessert; 
DIANE I was looking in one of your magazines and saw that picture of the couple getting married at the Pyramids. Were you ever in Egypt? 
ANNIE I was there for that shot, actually. 
DIANE What was it like? 
ANNIE Oh, God -- I think it was the fourth or fifth time I'd been there, so all I remember was the heat and how incompetent the photographer was... 
She laughs as she directs this last line to Diane, who just smiles. And Annie realizes that's not what she meant at all. This woman is starving for glimpses into this other life. 
ANNIE But, uh, Egypt is, well, it's like nothing else. It's like going back in time. (Diane listens) I remember as a kid trying to imagine what a kid my age, centuries ago, walking over that same ground, was wondering about or, if they had the same problems as me... and I felt, connected to... to time itself, almost. Ha, I never realized how hard it was to describe. 
DIANE I'd love to go there one time... 
ANNIE You and Frank ever take a vacation? 
DIANE Soon. We're going to Branson, Missouri to see my cousin Emma married. Frank loves in there. 
Annie can sense the disappointment in her voice, and at the same time, the comfortable resignation. 
Suddenly, from inside, they hear LOUD OVERLAPPING VOICES as the children fight. 
TWIN (SCOTT) IT WAS MY TURN! 
JOE YA JUST HAD A TURN. IT WAS NOT. 
TWIN (SCOTT) WAS SO! 
LIVING ROOM: 
Diane and Annie enter to find Joe and Scott fighting, as Tom tries to break them up... 
TOM Boys! Settle down! 
TWIN (SCOTT) You never let me have a turn! 
JOE Don't be such a baby! 
TWIN (SCOTT) You just showing off for her! 
JOE You shut up, stupid! 
TWIN (SCOTT) You're the one who's stupid -- letting her go and fall off your horse!! 
Everyone goes quiet, except for the computer screen. 
JOE You little shit! 
DIANE JOE! 
TWIN (SCOTT) I saw 'em. In the pasture. Her trying to get on Gonzo! I saw 'em. 
ANNIE What does he mean? 
GRACE Nothing. 
ANNIE Did you go riding? 
JOE Little shit! 
Joe lunges for Scott and the two start rolling in a fight. Frank and Tom work to pull them apart as Diane yells. 
DIANE Annie, I'm so sorry, but they're just tired. We'll have dessert another time. Frank, get them out of here. (to other Twin) Come on. Say good night and thank you... 
Voices everywhere. Yelling. "Thank you's!!" During which, Grace quickly turns and exits. Annie eyes follow her out of the room, but with her guests and the chaos, she doesn't know whether or not to leave. 
FRANK Dinner was delicious. Thank you. (to Twins) Say thank you!! 
Diane and Frank usher the kids out. Tom holds onto Joe until they're gone, then lets him go. 
JOE Sorry, ma'am, I thank you for dinner. It was very good. 
ANNIE Did Grace try to ride, Joe? 
JOE (hesitates) I expect you should talk to Grace about that, ma'am. And if I did anything wrong, then I am sorry. 
Tom sits alone, writing at his desk. His music is playing. He stops to look out the window overlooking the Creek House. 
Annie and Grace fell asleep with the lights still on in the living room. 
Tom is thinking of Grace and Annie -- wondering what happened after he left... conflicted by what he feels for Annie... And remembering why they're here in the first place... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. CREEK HOUSE - NEXT MORNING 
The phone rings, awakening Annie first, then Grace. 
ANNIE Hello? 
OPERATOR (V.O.) Hello, this is ATT Conference Service. Is this Annie MacLean? 
ANNIE Yes. 
OPERATOR (V.O.) I have a conference call scheduled for you with Mr. Gottschalk and Mr. Farlow. 
ANNIE (remembering) Oh. Oh, yes. One moment, please. 
GRACE Who is it? 
ANNIE Uh, nothing. I'm going to pick it up in the other room -- would you hang this up for me? 
GRACE Sure. 
Annie moves to the other room, sits down at her office space, takes a breath, then picks up, yelling to Grace; 
ANNIE Okay, Grace... (click) Operator?... I'm ready. 
EXT. RIDING ARENA - LATER THAT MORNING 
Annie and Grace are standing by the arena fence. Frank, Joe and the Twins are sitting on the fence rail. Joe is holding a saddle and a bridle, standing in some shadows in an empty arena. Pilgrim comes running into the ring. Out of habit, he starts circling the ring. He sees Tom holding a saddle. Pilgrim walks towards him. Curious, he stops, looking at him. Tom puts the saddle down, sitting crossways on it. Pilgrim walks towards him again. He stops, looking at Tom again. Tom just sits there, playing with the bridle. Pilgrim walks around him. Tom doesn't show him any interest. Pilgrim comes closer. He looks at the saddle. He runs off. He stops, looking back. Tom just sits. Pilgrim walks back over. Tom stands and shows him the bridle. Pilgrim comes closer, sniffing it. He rubs his nose against the leather. Tom pats his head. Then, in one quick, but deft motion, he puts the bridle on him. Pilgrim tosses his head, but it doesn't seem to bother him. Grace and Annie watch intently. Tom takes the reins, walking Pilgrim around the ring. He walks him to the saddle. Pilgrim paws at it with his hoof. He turns and runs off. Tom lets him go. Pilgrim runs around the ring, slows down, looks over at Tom. Tom picks up the saddle. Pilgrim, cautiously, comes back over. Tom, with the saddle, walks away from him. Pilgrim, again curious, follows him. He nudges Tom. Tom stops. Pilgrim comes around to take a good look at the saddle. Tom rubs his back. And gently, like laying down a sheet, puts the saddle on his back. Pilgrim shuffles slightly at the touch. Tom quickly cinches it. Taking up the reins, he walks Pilgrim around the ring again. He starts to jog. Pilgrim jogs with him. And in the middle of the jog, Tom grabs onto the saddle horn, and without breaking his stride, pulls himself back up onto his back. He lays across the saddle, letting Pilgrim feel his weight. He sits up, and without letting him break his stride, he urges Pilgrim with his thighs, keeping him in the jog, riding around the ring. 
Grace and Annie cheer. Tom tips his hat to them... 
INT. THE BARN - DAY 
Grace is cleaning stalls, etc... She exits one of the stalls with a pail and stops -- looking down the barn to where she knows Pilgrim is. She places the pail down and gathers her courage. She walks to Pilgrim's stall. She stands motionless for some moments before she opens the doors and enters... 
Pilgrim steps back a bit. He looks at her. He pins his ears back. Stomps his feet. Grace is about to turn and leave, but she stops herself and remains still. 
Slowly, she reaches out to touch Pilgrim's head... and he lets her. We see in Grace a maturity of character, a willingness to face what she must face... the beginning of a compassion, not only for Pilgrim, but perhaps for herself as well. 
EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - NIGHT 
A full moon lights the ranch. Tom pulls up to the ranch house in his truck, parks and gets out. As he walks towards the house, he hears: 
Grace exits the Creek House and coming towards him, a coat over her nightgown. Tom waits until she reaches him. 
GRACE I was waiting for you to come back. 
Tom instinctively knows what she wants. 
TOM You hungry? 
INT. RANCH HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Grace sits at the table. Tom is cooking at the stove. It feels as if they are the only two people on earth. Grace gets up her nerve... and begins: 
GRACE Judith was telling me about this boy she really liked. She never even had a chance to tell me his name... 
She starts to quietly cry, but it doesn't stop her. 
GRACE We were going to go around by the railroad bridge... 
And we see the accident all over again... But this time, a movie -- as clear as reality -- but in deathly silence. Just the sound of Grace's voice, and her heartbeat... 
EXT. THE WOODS, CONNECTICUT - EARLY MORNING 
The horses are going up the icy path... 
GRACE (V.O.) We were laughing about something, I don't remember what. Her horse fell... 
Judith's horse suddenly stumbles on the ice, going down, throwing Judith, her foot helplessly caught in the stirrup. Her horse sliding back down the hill. 
Grace tries to move Pilgrim to avoid the errant horse, but it's too late, the horse plows into them, the horses sliding back down the hillside onto the empty COUNTRY ROAD... 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD, CT. - EARLY MORNING 
Pilgrim is first to find his legs. Judith's horse, its leg broken at the ankle, walks in a confused state. Judith's foot is helplessly caught in the stirrup... 
GRACE (V.O.) ... Judith's foot was caught in the stirrup... she couldn't get up, she was so scared... (cries) I saw this truck, coming around the turn... 
She sees the glint of the steel. The Truck suddenly appears from around the bend. 
GRACE (V.O.) ...He was honking, trying to get us to move... I tried to grab the reins to get Judith's horse out of the way... 
Grace grabs the reins of Judith's horse. The horses are spooking... 
GRACE (V.O.) ...And the truck started skidding... 
The truck skidded on the icy road, going out of control, jack- knifing, heading right for them... 
GRACE (V.O.) ...It was coming right at us... There wasn't any time to do anything... It ran right into Judith's horse... 
The truck bed plows into Judith's horse... 
GRACE (V.O.) ...Judith just disappeared... And it came right at Pilgrim and me... 
We see this... 
GRACE (V.O.) ...And Pilgrim reared up at the truck and I fell off... 
Grace falls onto the road, the truck running over her. 
INT. RANCH HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Grace sobs uncontrollably now. 
GRACE Judith... Oh God, Judith. I'm sorry... 
ANNIE Sounds like something Tom would say. 
DIANE Yes, it does. 
Annie and Diane resume washing the dishes in silence. Annie deep in thought. Until Diane stops. After a beat, Annie notices. 
ANNIE What? 
DIANE Annie, I'm not good at this kind of talk -- goes round and round a thing but never comes to it -- so let's just say what it is. When you first came here, I didn't like you and I was worried. Tom means a lot to me and this family. Don't go looking here for whatever you looking for. Don't make that man go through something it took him a long time to see his way clear out of the first time. 
ANNIE I don't think anybody can make Tom do anything he didn't want. 
DIANE He's a good man, Tom is. He's got a gift, come from heaven above, I swear. But he's still a man. And a woman can lead a man into the middle of a mountain lake -- and still make him think he's on dry land. 
Diane's words ring in Annie's head. 
EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DEAD OF NIGHT 
Dead in stillness. The cattle dark and motionless. Everyone asleep in bedrolls around the pasture. 
Annie awakens, looks up at the moon, watching it go in and out of the clouds. She looks over to sleeping Grace... Then looks to where Tom is -- and sees his sleeping bag is empty. Quietly, she rises and looks for him. 
She starts across the grass and sees him crossing on his haunches, wearing a slicker, sitting in the grass by the stream, drinking some water. She watches him. 
Tom senses something and turns. For a moment, they just look at each other -- half disbelieving the inevitable is so close at hand. Annie approaches as Tom rises. 
They meet. They kiss. Tentative at first, but more, just to make that very, precious first moment of discovery last as long as it can. The kiss grows more passionate. They begin to lose themselves in each other. 
Until, suddenly, aware of their surroundings, they part. No words. Their expressions to each other tell all. Annie separates herself and goes back to her bedroll... Tom stands in the grass, by the stream... the moving water, the night's only sound. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY 
The cattle drive returns. Tom, Annie, Grace, et al... are on their horses, heading back towards the ranch when Grace sees in the distance; 
GRACE Dad? 
Annie looks up and sees: 
POV -- ROBERT has come to the ranch. He is waiting for them with his luggage beside a rental car... standing out like an Like The Man In The Gray Flannel Suit in the middle of Wyeth's "Christina's World." 
EXT. RANCH HOUSE - DAY 
Everyone is being introduced to Robert, as Grace hugs him from the side, never letting go of him. Frank, Diane -- who introduce their kids, then Tom and Robert shake hands... 
ANNIE This is Mr. Booker, Robert. 
TOM (extends hand) Tom. 
ROBERT Hi. It's a pleasure. I'm very grateful for the way you took in my girls here. I bet you were surprised when they just showed up out of nowhere. 
TOM Oh yeah... 
Laugh. Awkward silence... 
ROBERT Well I uh... I can already see a change. (hugging Grace) And I'm very grateful to you. 
Robert is so sincere -- in that openly, modern, "express your feelings" kind of way. Tom just nods. 
GRACE Did you notice -- no cane? 
ROBERT I know. Amazing. 
GRACE Can we show him Pilgrim, Tom? 
TOM Oh, we're gonna show your dad plenty. Why don't you all get settled in and we'll do the tour. Excuse me. 
As Tom walks away, a nervous Robert feels compelled to say: 
ROBERT See you later! 
Tom just nods and keeps walking. Annie and Robert face each other for a beat. 
ANNIE Let's bring your bags inside. 
GRACE Wait till you see this -- we have the whole house to ourselves... 
The MacLean walk to the Creek House. 
EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY 
In the distance, we see the pick-up truck parked out in the pasture. Tom is standing with Robert -- in jeans, now -- and Grace, telling Robert about the ranch. Robert has his arms around Grace, asking questions, interested in everything... Grace is loving being with her two favorite men... 
EXT. RANCH - DAY 
Grace waits in the truck as Tom leads Robert through the cows and cowshit, climbs up and hops over a wood fence. Robert follows suit -- not as gracefully -- and gets a splinter... 
INT. RANCH KITCHEN - DAY 
Diane is busy in the kitchen when Annie enters. 
ANNIE Is there anything you need? I'm going food-shopping. 
DIANE Well, I am going to go after lunch. 
ANNIE No, no, I'll go -- just give me a list. 
Annie is determined. She needs to be by herself for a bit. 
EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE RANCH - DAY 
Tom continues his tour as the dogs run about them. Tom pays the dogs no attention, except to bark an order. Robert, however, engages with them -- picking up a stick and throws it. A dog returns and gives it back. Robert kneels and begins rubbing the dog's fur, talking to it, looking like an anachronism in his baggy jeans with designer cowboy belt and spanking new designer cowboy boots. 
Tom waits patiently for Robert, who... and carries on with the dog a bit too long. When Robert gets up, he habitually brushes the dirt off his jeans, maybe even his boots, and makes sure his outfit is hanging properly. 
INT. BARN - DAY 
Grace is in the stall with Pilgrim. Once again, close enough to touch him, which he allows. 
Outside the stall, stand Robert and Tom. Robert squeezes his splinter... 
ROBERT I can't believe it's the same horse. 
Cars and pick-up trucks haphazardly parked along a dirt road... Smoking open grill barbecues. Ranchers and families move about the ranch, sit and eat at picnic tables with gingham tablecloths... Some teenagers hanging around the corral, talking. Diane and some other women, eating and talking... Frank with a group of men, drinking beer, telling stories. 
A BAND has been set up by the barn. People are dancing under the harvest moon. Grace is dancing with Joe... Tom is dancing with a local woman... Annie with a rancher... Everyone is having a good time... 
Robert is enjoying a smoke with some men. He looks over to the dance floor and smiles when he sees Grace and Joe. 
Joe and the Rancher trade place... Joe dances with Annie, the Rancher with Grace... But Tom sees his chance and switches with the Rancher so that he can dance with Grace... She is thrilled and he guides her effortlessly across the floor. 
Joe and Annie are interrupted by another couple. Joe switches partners, but Annie smiles and excuses herself -- she wants to rest. 
Robert continues talking with some of the men. He puts out his smoke and looks over to the dance floor. He sees Grace now dancing with Tom... His eyes search for Annie. He moves away from the men until he sees, from a distance; 
Annie, sitting by herself, amidst the crowd... No one would notice her unless they were looking for her... But Robert does -- and what he sees is Annie looking at Grace and Tom... then, only looking at Tom... Smiling to herself gently... Watching his every move. Suddenly, she rises and exits out of the barn to get some air. 
EXT. HANK'S RANCH - NIGHT 
Annie finds an isolated spot, behind the main house, to be by herself and catch her breath. 
INT. BARN - NIGHT 
Tom and Grace continue dancing. She's in heaven. Robert approaches and Tom quickly allows him to take over. Grace loves the attention from both men. As they dance off, Tom crosses the dance floor and is met by Hank's wife; 
HANK'S WIFE Oh Tom, would you check the shed and see if there's anymore chairs. 
TOM Sure. 
EXT. HANK'S RANCH - NIGHT 
Tom is walking along when he turns the corner of Hank's house and finds; 
Annie sitting alone, staring up at the night. They see each other. From behind the house, no one else can see them. 
It is as if the fates brought them face to face and alone. Without any will to stop it, they embrace and kiss passionately. But when they look into each other's eyes, there is no joy in the kiss. Tom releases her and walks away, heading for the shed. Annie quickly pulls herself together and enters the main house through the back door. 
INT. DOUBLE DIVIDE RANCH, KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Diane is once more sitting at the kitchen table, looking over some bills before bed. Her tape player is on softly. Tom enters and crosses to the sink to get a glass of water. 
Diane looks up, seeing Tom with his back to her -- standing at the sink, filling his glass -- staring out the window over the sink. She looks to the dish of brownies on the table. 
DIANE I have some brownies left over. Want one? 
TOM (w/o turning around) No thanks. 
Diane senses an uneasiness in Tom. She looks as he drinks his water. 
MEDIUM CLOSE-UP ON TOM'S BACK, as if from Diane's POV. 
But when we pull back we find ourselves; 
INT. BARN - NIGHT 
Tom is standing in front of Pilgrim's stall. He opens the door. They look at each other. He strokes him and begins to whisper; 
TOM There's something you have to do tomorrow, boy... 
Camera gently moves away... and Tom whispers to Pilgrim what must be done... 
EXT. THE RIDING ARENA - DAY 
There's a stillness. A sense of import. Annie, Robert, Frank, Diane, Joe and Smokey, are all at various spots along the fence. 
Grace stands inside the ring. Tom is standing beside Pilgrim in the middle of the ring. Pilgrim is bridled and saddled. Tom adjusts he stirrup. He walks over to Grace... 
TOM All set? 
Grace swallows hard, nodding. She's worried... 
TOM Sure? 
GRACE (softly) Sure. 
Tom puts his arms around her shoulders and walks out to Pilgrim. The horse pricks up his ears as they approach. Tom motions Grace to stop a short distance from Pilgrim so as not to crowd him. Tom walks over alone, reaching to gently take hold of him. Holding him by the bridle, he puts his head beside Pilgrim's, quietly speaking to him, soothing Pilgrim's neck with his other hand... 
Annie and Robert are fascinated. Anxious. 
Pilgrim never takes his eyes off Grace. Tom tries to ease him forward. Pilgrim resists, lifting his head and looking at Grace so you can see the white at the top of his eye. Tom turns him away, walking him in circles, trying to calm him. He leads him back to Grace. Pilgrim tosses his head and stomps his feet. 
Robert grows more anxious. Annie is calmer, more focused. 
Tom climbs up on him, riding him around the arena in an easy lope. Grace watches them go round the ring. She looks at her parents and tries to smile. They try as well. 
Tom dismounts and leads Pilgrim back to Grace. Pilgrim balks again, violently throwing his head, kicking... Grace's shoulders slump, she presses her hands in her pockets, fighting not to cry... 
TOM Smokey... 
Smokey climbs over the rail into the ring as Tom says something to him. Meanwhile Frank reassures Grace: 
FRANK He'll be okay, Grace. Just you hang on there a minute or two. Tom'll get him, okay, you'll see... 
Smokey jogs over to the gate, climbing it, and disappearing into the barn. Tom crosses to Grace. 
TOM There's still something going on inside of him I can't reach. So me and Smokey here, we're going to try laying him down. Okay? 
GRACE What does that mean? 
TOM It's more or less how it sounds. Sometimes it's not pretty to watch. Some horses fight it real hard. Your fella's already shown us he likes a good fight. So if you don't want to watch, I'll call you when it's done. 
GRACE I want to watch. 
Smokey re-enters the ring, carrying some rope. He talks briefly to Tom. Pilgrim, sensing something, turns and runs to the far side of the ring. Tom, his arms spread, walks over to him, keeping him by the fence. Tom takes him by the bridle. Smokey comes beside him. Tom unhitches the bridle and in its place slips a rope halter Smokey passes to him. Smokey then hands him two long ropes, one at a time. Tom fastens one under the halter and ties the other to the saddle horn. Tom asks Smokey. 
TOM You got that soft rope? 
Smokey hands it to him. Tom quietly talks to Pilgrim, runs his hand down Pilgrim's left foreleg and lifts his hoof. Pilgrim slightly shifts. And when he's still, Tom slips the loop at the end of the soft rope over the hoof making sure it's snug. And taking the other end of the rope, he hoists the weight of Pilgrim's raised hoof and ties the rope to the saddle horn. Pilgrim stands on three legs -- an explosion waiting to happen. Tom moves away from Pilgrim, taking the halter line from Smokey. Pilgrim, trying to move, finds he's crippled. Scared, he lurches, hopping on his right foreleg. Seeing he can't walk, panicked, he tries to run. Tom and Smokey, brace themselves, lean back on their ropes and force him around them in a tight circle. He goes around and around like a crazed rocking horse with a broken leg. Tom looks over and sees Annie has left Robert outside the ring to stand by an anguished Grace -- her hands on her shoulders, gripping her. Robert watches, feeling too much a foreigner... 
GRACE What is he doing this? 
FRANK It'll be OK, Grace. 
But even Frank isn't so sure. Pilgrim, covered in sweat, still circles. As he runs, his hobbled foot jabs at the air, trying to find peace. He runs and runs as Tom and Smokey lean on the ropes -- until he can't run any more and stops. Tom and Smokey let the lines go slack. Pilgrim, stands there, his wet sides heaving, panting like an asthmatic, making loud rasping sounds. Tom and Smokey speak. Smokey hands him his rope. Turning, he gets a coiled lasso out of the sand. He swings the rope in a wide loop and makes it fall over Pilgrim's saddle horn. He pulls it tight. And he takes the other end of the rope to the far side of the fence and ties it in a quick release knot to the bottom rung. Coming back he takes the other two lines from Tom. Tom crosses to the rail. He starts putting pressure on the rope. Pilgrim feeing it, braces himself. The pressure tilts the saddle hold downward. 
FRANK (to Grace and Annie) He's trying to get him to go down on his knees... 
Tom rises slowly to his feet. Then stands stock still. He and the Stallion penetrate each other. 
Suddenly this beautiful, powerful Stallion rears -- violently. Tom remains still, but clearly the horse is treating him as an invader... 
It's as if the Whisperer is now being guided by the Horse towards understanding. As Tom receives it, he remembers; 
TOM (V.O.) Summers are short here, Annie. There isn't much of a fall. Before you know it, the roads are closed... the nights get long. 
WE BEGIN TO FADE OUT ON TOM 
ANNIE (V.O.) I don't care! We'd be together. 
TOM (V.O.) Two people can't just be alone together in the world. At least not us... 
ANNIE (V.O.) I can't do this. I can't leave you... 
Voice-Overs have carried over into a... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT 
Tom and Annie make love... 
ANNIE (V.O.) I won't. 
But there is a difference in their lovemaking. There's a slowness, a reverence... a sense of two people so bounded, that they are outside of time... Their love is so strong it almost feels like despair -- their need to connect has gone beyond their bodies and into their spirits, for which there is no earthly satisfaction. 
EXT. CREEK HOUSE - MORNING 
The sun has risen. 
INT. CREEK HOUSE - MORNING 
Annie awakens in bed and discovers she is alone. She looks around for Tom. She rises and enters the other room to discover: 
All her boxes and all her luggage have been removed. 
Her heart sinks. Tom re-enters, fully dressed, to get the last box. He sees on her face a look of confusion and hurt. 
TOM I figured, whenever you decided to go, you'd be all set. 
ANNIE (curt) How thoughtful of you. And what if I decide not to go? 
Tom doesn't know how to respond. He looks away and bends down to reach for the box when Annie commands: 
ANNIE Leave me alone! 
Beat. They stand awkwardly for a moment, until; 
TOM (pleadingly) Annie, please... 
Tom reaches to embrace her, but Annie attacks him. Punching his chest... pulling at his shirt as Tom tries to put his arms around her... 
ANNIE NO!... NO!... YOU DON'T DECIDE THIS!... NO!... 
Tom's heart is breaking as he manages to get his arms around her and hold her... as she breaks down and softly, the rage passes... Annie speaks softly. 
TOM (struggling) I don't know any other way, Annie. 
ANNIE (more adamant) Why? 
Suddenly; 
TOM You think this is easy for me!? 
Annie is struck by the powerful sincerity of his words; 
TOM It's just happened this way sometimes. I can't explain it. But I look at you and see Grace and I see Robert, and no matter what you decide about him, I just know this is right. Your life isn't here and you know it. 
Annie looks into his eyes and asks, softly defiant; 
ANNIE Then what have we been doing? I mean what was the point? 
TOM (confused by her question) The point was to love each other. 
ANNIE Why? 
As if there has to be a result... Tom looks at her and says with an almost innocent conviction: 
TOM Because we had to... And I'll never stop loving you, Annie. Here. Where my life is. 
The simplicity, and truth, of it hits Annie strongly. 
Annie releases herself from him and turns away... despondent. Realizing the utter truth and inevitability of what he says. She starts shaking her head. Tom can't hear it... He reaches for her; 
TOM Annie... 
She turns back into his arms and they kiss passionately... holding each other... as if for the last time. 
EXT. RANCH HOUSE - DAY 
Tom is escorting Pilgrim into the trailer attached to the Suburban. He looks across the ranch to see the figure of Annie, standing alone, perfectly still, in the pasture, looking out to the horizon... (reminiscent of Tom earlier in the film) 
EXT. THE PASTURE - DAY 
Tom approaches Annie from behind, stopping a few feet away. 
TOM Annie? 
She doesn't answer... as if she has found her own private place within her, at last... A place of strength. She looks as if she knows what must be done... She hears him about to walk away when she asks: 
ANNIE Can we go for one more ride? 
Tom stops. Considers this. Then: 
TOM Sure. I'll saddle them up. 
He exits. Not seeing the tears in Annie's eyes. 
INT. BARN - DAY 
Tom enters the barn slowly. He crosses to Rimrock's stall... then stops. As if he is waiting. As if he knows... 
