THE HOSPITAL 
Written by 
Paddy Chayefsky 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
THE HOSPITAL. DAY. MAY, 
PANORAMIC VIEW of The Hospital -- a vast medical complex, a sprawling pastiche of architecture extending ten blocks north and south on First Avenue and east to the river. 
The Hospital was founded in the late 19th century, and there are still a few begrimed Victorian Bedlams and Bastilles among the buildings. Mostly though, it is Medical Modern 1971, white and chrome and lots of glass and concrete shafts and rotundas. A spanking new Community Mental Health Clinic towers among the tenements at the northern end of the complex. On the far side of First Avenue, a twenty-story apartment house with recessed balconies and picture windows to house the resident staff has just recently been completed, and next to it, eight ghetto buildings are being demolished to make way -- according to the construction company's sign -- for a new Drug Rehabilitation Center, to be completed in 1973, we should all live so long. This is where the shattering SOUNDS OF CONSTRUCTION are coming from. A block length of generators and cement and demolition machines are POUNDING, CRASHING, SCREAMING. Traffic HONKS and BRAYS up First Avenue. 
It is a cold spring morning -- 10:00 A.M. 
A 1966 station wagon pulls up to the Holly Pavilion. 
A tiny, fragile, white-bearded OLD MAN, almost lost in his overcoat, is helped from the rear of a station wagon and slowly led to the entrance doors by a middle-aged nurse. 
NARRATOR On Monday morning, a patient named Guernsey, male, middle-seventies was admitted to the hospital complaining of chest pains. 
HOLLY PAVILION. EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR 
The old man is now in a wheelchair pushed by a hospital orderly down the corridor. 
NARRATOR He had been referred by a nursing home where the doctor had diagnosed his condition as angina pectoris. Now it is axiomatic that nursing home doctors are always wrong. 
ROOM 806 
The old man, shirtless, is propped on the edge of the bed, wheezing. DR. SCHAEFER, a young intern in white-uniform, perches beside him with the old man's chart in his lap, taking down his history. The other patient in the two-bedded room, a MIDDLE-AGED MAN, is comatose and all rigged up with I.V.'s and catheters. 
NARRATOR The intern who admitted Mr. Guernsey, however, accepted the diagnosis and prescribed morphine, a drug suitable for angina but not at all suitable for emphysema, which is, unfortunately, what the old man actually had. Within an hour... 
EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR 
Two orderlies rush the old man's bed with, of course, the old man in it, past the Nurses' Station and into a waiting elevator. 
NARRATOR ...the patient became unresponsive and diaphoretic and was raced up to Intensive Care with an irregular pulse of 150, blood pressure 90 over 60, respiration rapid and shallow. 
INTENSIVE CARE 
An oxygen mask is applied to the old man's face by the resident. 
NARRATOR The resident on duty now compounded the blunder by treating the old man for pulmonary edema. He gave him digitalis, diuretics and oxygen. This restored the old man's color... 
EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR 
The elevator door opens. Two orderlies wheel the sleeping man on his bed back around the Nurses' Station and down the corridor to his room. 
NARRATOR ...and he was sent back to his room in the Holly Pavilion, ruddy complected and peacefully asleep. 
ROOM 806. EVENING 
The old man is back in his room sleeping serenely, his tiny body making barely a ripple in the white sheet that covers him. The room is in hushed shadows. A yellowish light diffuses into the room from the half-opened bathroom door. The other patient in the room remains as before, comatose and silent. 
NARRATOR In point of fact, the patient was in CO2 narcosis... 
ROOM 806 
All the lights are on now. NURSE PENNY CANDUSO and an orderly are wrapping the old man in a post-mortem shroud. BRUBAKER, the senior resident, is giving hell to Schaefer, the intern. 
NARRATOR ...and died at seven-thirty that evening. 
NURSE PEREZ (trying again, with little hope) Doctor Schaefer? 
She sighs, turns and leaves the room. 
EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR 
Nurse Perez, frowning and pursing her lips, moves slowly back to... 
EIGHTH FLOOR, NURSES' STATION 
Head Nurse Reardon is still bent over her paperwork. 
NURSE PEREZ Listen, did you know Doctor Schaefer was in Eight-O-Six, because he's dead? 
MRS. REARDON (late forties, continues her painstaking paperwork, grunts) What? 
NURSE PEREZ I'm just telling you, Dr. Schaefer is dead. 
MRS. REARDON (works on; after a moment, looks up) What do you want, Perez? 
NURSE PEREZ Look, I don't know what the hell this is all about, but Dr. Schaefer is in Room 806 with an I.V. running and he's dead. I didn't even know he was sick. 
MRS. REARDON (regards Perez a moment) Perez, what the hell are you talking about? (appeals to Nurse Rivers coming out of the floor pharmacy) Do you know what the hell she's talking about? 
NURSE PEREZ Well, maybe I'm going crazy. I don't know. Isn't Room 806 the patient Guernsey? I mean, did something happen I don't know about? 
MRS. REARDON Perez, I don't know what you're talking about. 
NURSE PEREZ This is the nuttiest thing I ever saw. Dr. Schaefer's in Room 806 dead. 
MRS. REARDON What Dr. Schaefer? Our Dr. Schaefer? 
NURSE PEREZ Our Dr. Schaefer. The one who's always grabbing everybody's ass. 
MRS. REARDON (to Nurse Rivers) Do you know what she's talking about? I don't know what she's talking about. (to Perez) What do you mean Doctor Schaefer's in Room 806 dead? 
NURSE PEREZ I mean, he's lying on the far bed, stone dead, and with an I.V. tube sticking out of him. And if you don't believe me, maybe you just ought to get up and look for yourself. 
With a short, irritable sigh, Mrs. Reardon abandons her paperwork and heads down the west corridor, followed by Nurses Perez and Rivers. CAMERA TRACKS as Mrs. Reardon turns to Nurse Rivers. 
MRS. REARDON All right, maybe you'd better call Mrs. Christie. 
Phone RINGS. 
BOCK'S HOTEL ROOM 
Dark. Venetian blinds drawn. TV set on, a gray coarse-grained square. PHONE RINGS. 
DR. HERBERT BOCK, 53 years old, a large man, bulky, disheveled, apparently fell asleep in a chair while watching television the night before. The bed still has its spread on but is rumpled. Bock is in trousers and shirt, collar opened, barefooted. PHONE RINGS. The reading lamp is the only light in the room except for the sheen of gray hissing from the television. Newspapers litter the floor. Books, two-day-old plates of food, yesterday's mugs of coffee, cigar-stuffed ashtrays, a shirt, a pair of pants, a winter overcoat, a battered gray fedora have been slung about. PHONE on the bedtable RINGS again, begins to penetrate the sotted sleep of the man. Two bottles of booze, one empty, and a clump of glasses are on the coffee table in front of Bock. He grunts, opens an eye. PHONE RINGS. Bock suddenly exsufflates in a snorting grunt. He stands, shuffles to the bed, a big, sodden fellow, picks up the receiver, interrupting its next RING. He sinks, sitting on the bed. 
BOCK This is Dr. Bock... Yes, Mrs. Christie, what is it? It's all right, I'd be getting up in a few minutes anyway... I'm sorry I missed that. Would you say it again? Yes, I know him, Schaefer, the stud with the glasses, who fancies the nurses... I'm afraid I don't understand that, what do you mean? Was he sick? I mean, was he... uh, what was the cause of death? Was he being treated? I don't understand. What was he doing in the bed? You did say he... Look, Mrs. Christie, did you call the office? Good, well, I'll... No, no, it's all right. I'll be getting my wake-up call any minute anyway. 
He returns the receiver to its cradle, sits disoriented, unbuttoning his shirt. 
HOSPITAL. MORNING. 8:00 A.M. 
LONG SHOT of the hospital, now alive and jumping. Taxis pull up and out of the large U-shaped drive. A noisy picket line of about twenty chanting protesters parade with signs in an uneven ellipse. 
GRUMBLING PROTESTERS (chanting) Two-four! Help the poor! 
Most of the placards are slogan-y: "PEOPLE YES! DOCTORS NO!" -- "CURE POVERTY! HEAL THE POOR!" Two protesters move toward the street, waving and yelling at an approaching car. One, a young white fellow wears a sandwich board that goes into the matter at some length: "WE PROTEST THE EVICTION OF 386 BLACK FAMILIES AND THE DESTRUCTION OF THEIR HOMES TO SERVE THE EXPANSIONIST POLICIES OF THIS IMPERIALIST HOSPITAL." 
In the back seat of the car sits JOHN SUNDSTROM, handsomely graying, tanned, early fifties, the Director of the Hospital. He looks up. That young demonstrator, DR. IVES, a sandy-haired bespectacled man of 30 in a white doctor's coat, sidles to the car's open rear window angrily shouting. 
MRS. DONOVAN I think I'll just let Mrs. Christie tell you about it. 
Bock lumbers off for the west corridor through a press of activity. Kitchen workers trundle creaking portable carts, nurse's aids and attendants pop in and out of doorways bearing trays and used dishes. A robed patient or two ambulates along the hall. Morning rounds have just started, which means a clump of white-jacketed, white-trousered young doctors are gathered in a gaggle at the far end. The group includes senior resident MONROE BRUBAKER, junior resident HARVEY BIEGELMAN, interns SAM CHANDLER and IRVING AMBLER and another medical student, all lounging outside a door discussing the condition of the patient within. 
Chandler is presenting the case from a handful of notecards in his hand. The others lean against the walls, listening. They wear shirts and ties with the exception of Ambler, who is new to the floor and still in the canonical white tunic under his jacket. They are all in their twenties and have swinger sideburns and occasional mustaches. When he spots Dr. Bock, senior resident Brubaker turns the rounds over to Biegelman and joins Bock just outside 806. 
BRUBAKER (as he approaches, rolls his eyes) Oh boy. 
BOCK What happened? 
BRUBAKER I've seen some pretty good snafus, but this one... I mean, there's a certain splendor to this one. One of the night nurses, a float, thought Schaefer was a patient and plugged an I.V. into him. He was a diabetic, you know. 
BOCK What do you mean, a nurse plugged an I.V. into him? 
BRUBAKER Oh, it's really a screwed-up story, Doctor. You see, what happened was we had an old man in that bed who died last night, so the bed was available. And you know Schaefer. He's Sammy Stud. 
BOCK And he talked a nurse into zapping him on that bed. 
BRUBAKER I think it was a girl from hematology he's been running with. 
BOCK My God, it's a Roman farce. 
The door to Room 806 opens, and an Assistant Administrator named HITCHCOCK pokes his head out. 
HITCHCOCK I thought I heard you out here, Doctor. (he too rolls his eyes heavenward in an expression of incredulity) 
Bock makes a noise and goes into... 
ROOM 806 
Aside from Hitchcock, the room includes MRS. CHRISTIE, the Director of Nurses, a fusty forty-six, in streetclothes; Head Night Nurse, Mrs. Reardon, in uniform; Head Evening Nurse, MRS. DUNNE, mid-fifties, who had apparently been called in from home because she's in mufti and wearing a winter coat; and, of course, the comatose patient and the dead Dr. Schaefer. Mrs. Christie is instructing the two nurses. 
MRS. CHRISTIE I'll need one from both of you, three copies, and I suggest you do that right now. The forms are in my office... 
Mrs. Dunne, on the verge of tears, head bobbing, looks up to Bock. 
MRS. DUNNE I'm really so terribly sorry about this, Dr. Bock. I... 
BOCK (regarding Schaefer's rigid death mask) As I understand it, one of the nurses inadvertently administered an I.V. to Schaefer here. How the hell could that happen? 
HITCHCOCK Listen, I think we ought to straighten this out somewhere else. 
MRS. CHRISTIE Yes, very good idea. Oh God, what a mess. 
They all file out now, Bock in the rear into... 
HALLWAY, NURSES' STATION AND LOBBY AREA 
They all go along to the Nurses' Station where Mrs. Reardon and Mrs. Dunne disappear into the rooms behind. Mrs. Christie leads Hitchcock and the trailing Bock to the TV-solarium; but Dr. Brubaker is now holding his rounds there. He stands, quietly expounding on the uses of heparin, a decoagulant. One of the patients last night had hemorrhaged consequent to injudicious use of that drug. Listening, the other young doctors make notes. Mrs. Christie leans against the wall. Apparently, the conference is to take place in the corridor. Background activity continues normally. 
MRS. CHRISTIE (with a sigh) Well, these things happen, of course. 
HITCHCOCK I suppose I'd better call the Medical Examiner. 
BOCK I still don't know what happened. 
MRS. CHRISTIE Well, it took an hour to get it sorted out. It seems a patient named Guernsey died last night in Eight-O-Six, but that information wasn't given to the night nurses. These things happen. 
Bock has begun to get the drift. A curious state of apathy settles over him. 
MRS. CHRISTIE (rattling on) At any rate, according to the cardex, the patient Guernsey was down for twenty-five milligrams of Sparine Q- 6-H, so Mrs. Reardon sent Nurse Perez to give him his twelve o'clock shot. Meanwhile, it seems Dr. Schaefer had usurped that particular bed for his own purposes. Dr. Brubaker suggests it was for a love tryst, and some weight is given that hypothesis by the fact that Dr. Schaefer was naked. 
BOCK (trying to give his attention to this) I get the drift, Mrs. Christie. In other words, Nurse Perez went in and sedated Dr. Schaefer thinking it was the patient Guernsey. My God! What I don't understand... 
...and down past Miss McGuire, rattling away on her IBM, and out into... 
HOLLY PAVILION, SEVENTH FLOOR, CORRIDOR 
...down past several closed doors, stopping at a door marked DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHIATRY, DR. JOSEPH EINHORN. He enters. 
DR. EINHORN'S OFFICE, SECRETARY'S OFFICE 
A secretary at her desk, sips coffee and reads a paperback novel. 
BOCK Is he in? 
The doctor is obviously in. He can be seen through the open door sitting at his desk writing in a notebook. Bock leans in. 
BOCK Can you give me a few minutes, Joe? 
EINHORN (short, chunky, bespectacled, late fifties) Of course. 
Bock goes in, closes the door behind himself. 
DR. EINHORN'S OFFICE 
Bock looks only at the floor. 
BOCK (ill at ease) I've been having periods of acute depression recently. Apparently, it's becoming noticeable. A number of people have remarked on it. Anyway, John Sundstrom thought it might be a good idea if I spoke to you about it. 
EINHORN Do you want to sit down, Herb? 
BOCK No. I'm not good at confessional. (he ambles around) Well, what can I tell you? The last year, two, three... it goes way back, I suppose. I can remember entertaining suicidal thoughts as a college student. At any rate, I've always found life demanding. I'm an only child of lower-middle-class people. I was the glory of my parents. My son the doctor. Well, you know. I was always top of my class. Scholarship to Harvard. The boy genius, the brilliant eccentric. Terrified of women, clumsy at sports. God, Joe, how the hell do I go about this? 
EINHORN I understand you just separated from your wife. 
BOCK I left her a dozen times. She left me a dozen times. We stayed together through a process of attrition. Obviously sado-masochistic dependency. My home is hell. We've got a twenty- three-year-old boy I threw out of the house last year. A shaggy-haired Maoist. I don't know where he is, presumably building bombs in basements as an expression of his universal brotherhood. I've got a seventeen- year-old daughter who's had two abortions in two years and got arrested last week at a rock festival for pushing drugs. They let her off. The typical affluent American family. I don't mean to be facile about this. 
Indeed, he does not. He is horrified by the fact his eyes are wet and he is verging on tears. He turns away quickly. 
BOCK I blame myself for those two useless young people. I never exercised parental authority. I'm no good at that. Oh, God, I'm no good at this either. Joe, let's just forget the whole thing. I'm sorry I bothered you. 
He starts for the door. 
EINHORN How serious are your suicidal speculations, Herb? 
BOCK (at the door) I amuse myself with different ways of killing myself that don't look like suicide. I wouldn't want to do my family out of the insurance. 
EINHORN Digitalis will give you an arrhythmia. 
BOCK A good toxologist would find traces. Potassium's much better. Sixty milli equivalent. Instantaneous. Of course, then you're stuck with how to get rid of the hypodermic. Forty milli equivalent. Gives you plenty of time to dispose of the evidence. 
EINHORN You seem to have given considerable thought to the matter. 
BOCK You ought to know a man who talks about it all the time never does it. 
EINHORN I don't know. I see a man who's exhausted, emotionally drained, riddled with guilt, and has been systematically stripping himself of his wife, children, friends, isolating himself from the world. Are you impotent? 
BOCK Intermittently. 
EINHORN What does that mean? 
BOCK It means I haven't tried in so long, I don't know. Let's just drop the whole thing, Joe. I feel humiliated and stupid. All I have to do is pull myself together and get back into my work. I'm sorry I troubled you. Take care of yourself. I'll see you. 
Before Einhorn can say a word, he slips away and disappears into his own office. 
HOLLY PAVILION. 8:30 A.M. 
MRS. CUSHING Would you wait a moment, please. I'm on the phone, can't you see I'm on the phone? (rummaging through a stack of charts, large paper forms in quadruplicate) ...Of course not, do they ever? (hangs up, takes two charts from the desk, pushes through the waiting line) Would you mind, please. I have to get through, do you mind? 
She makes her way to the door and goes out into... 
EMERGENCY AREA, ENTRANCE LOBBY 
...which is congested. Mrs. Cushing enters... 
EMERGENCY, ADMITTING AND TREATMENT ROOMS 
NURSE (on phone) Give me that one again... thirty- two? 
Facing the desk are six curtained treatment rooms, mostly open to view. Behind the desk are a supply room and another treatment room. Both are occupied, the former by a PARANOID LADY wringing her hands in a paranoid rush and listened to by a very patient young intern. 
PARANOID LADY They follow me everywhere. Three big black men. Naked, completely exposed. Right in the street. Hanging down to their knees. Disgusting. They're waiting out there for me now... 
...and in the other room, a man in his thirties is being treated for some sort of head lacerations. In one treatment room, the Chief of Emergency Service, DR. SPEZIO, a man in his late thirties, along with an intern, an anesthesiologist and a nurse, is bent over a naked and comatose young black woman of eighteen, covered somewhat with a sheet. She's a junkie, being intubated, i.e. a small endotracheal tube has been inserted into her mouth. This is the most melodramatic of the varied activity here. 
A middle-aged man complaining of chest pains is lying clothed in another treatment room; a nurse attends him. 
An asthmatic middle-aged woman sits in still another room being administered her 500 mg. of amenophylene subcutaneously. 
The curtains on another room are drawn for privacy. On chairs in the corner sit a teenage boy with a badly sprained ankle and an elderly man bathing his hand in an enamel basin held in his lap. 
A young mother with a five-year-old daughter with a badly cut arm is being attended to by the back wall. The Emergency Room Nursing Supervisor, MISS ARONOVICI, a pretty woman in her mid-twenties, is sterilizing the little girl's wound. 
Mrs. Cushing makes her way to Miss Aronovici. They detest each other. 
MRS. CUSHING Did you call upstairs and tell them to admit a patient named Mitgang? 
MRS. ARONOVICI (continuing to treat the little girl) The concussion? 
MRS. CUSHING I don't know. They just called me. They said you didn't fill out the chart. And where do you come off sending anyone up to Admitting without my okay? 
Miss Aronovici turns to Mrs. Cushing, regarding her sweetly. 
MRS. ARONOVICI Sally, would you get the fuck out of here. The patient's in the Holding Room. You want his Blue Cross number, you go in and you get his Blue Cross number. 
Mrs. Cushing elbows back through the line of patients waiting at the Admitting desk. 
MRS. CUSHING Do you mind, please... 
There are now three nurses behind the desk, all of them on phones. One nurse calls to Dr. Spezio. 
NURSE O.P.D. wants to know how that asthmatic they sent down is. 
DR. SPEZIO (just leaving the group around the junkie) She's fine. We'd like to keep her here a little while. 
Spezio heads for the door where he is intercepted by Mrs. Cushing. 
MRS. CUSHING May I see you a moment, Doctor, if you don't mind. 
DR. SPEZIO (sighs, calls back to the triage nurse) I'll be right back. 
He goes out, followed by Mrs. Cushing, into... 
EMERGENCY AREA, LOBBY 
Spezio and Mrs. Cushing move between laundry and supply carts. 
MRS. CUSHING (thrusting some papers at the doctor) If you don't mind, Doctor, is this your handwriting? 
Spezio stops, sighs, examines the paper. 
DR. SPEZIO How the hell long has this man been lying here? Isn't this that doctor who came in around nine o'clock? 
MILTON MEAD'S OFFICE. 2:00 P.M. 
MILTON MEAD, late thirties, lean, efficient but under constant strain, is having his daily staff luncheon conference, which consists of a CHIEF ENGINEER, the ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR OF PERSONNEL, three residents in administration, including Hitchcock, sandwiches and coffee. 
CHIEF ENGINEER I mean, they gave me a hard time, Con Ed. "For Pete's Sake," I said, "this is a hospital. One of our feedlines just blew..." 
Mead's phone RINGS and he picks it up. 
MILTON MEAD Yeah? (it's another annoyance; he sighs with irritation) 
CHIEF ENGINEER I mean, it's lucky we traced it in time. 
MILTON MEAD (on phone) No, I'll be right up. (hangs up, stands) Have we covered about everything? 
ADMINISTRATIVE RESIDENT Dr. Kish has been driving me nuts with the O.R. schedule. 
MILTON MEAD He's supposed to see me about that. 
He moves across his office into... 
MEAD'S SECRETARY'S OFFICE 
Actually a communal office with desks for three secretaries. 
MEAD'S SECRETARY (looks up to Mead from talking on the phone) This is the Emergency Room. One of the doctors just died of a heart attack. 
MILTON MEAD (pauses) One of our staff? 
MEAD'S SECRETARY I think so. 
Mead frowns, leans back into his own office. 
MILTON MEAD (to Hitchcock) Tom, you want to go down to the Emergency Room? One of our doctors just died. 
HITCHCOCK What? Another one? 
MILTON MEAD Yeah, see what that's about. (en passant to secretary) I'll be on Holly Eight. I'll be right back. 
HOLLY PAVILION, EIGHTH FLOOR 
The staff elevator door opens, and Milton Mead comes out. He has apparently been buttonholed in the elevator by a woman in a doctor's coat, DR. IMMELMAN, Pathology, who follows him out... 
DR. IMMELMEN It's no longer pilferage, Milton. It's reached the point of piracy. That's the third microscope this month. 
MILTON MEAD Why don't we get together on this sometime this afternoon, Fran? 
DR. IMMELMAN One o'clock? 
MILTON MEAD One o'clock will be fine. 
He turns left and heads for... 
HOLLY PAVILION, EIGHTH FLOOR, NURSES' STATION 
...where Head Nurse Donovan is bent over her paperwork. In the background, we see normal morning hospital activity. Nurse's Aid, SHARLENE STONE, takes towels into a room. R.N. Felicia Chile comes out of another, bearing her enamel tray of instruments. 
Also in the background, the curious quartet from before -- the beautiful woman, the elderly Indian, the minister, Dr. Sutcliffe. Mead hardly notices them as he makes for the desk. 
MRS. DONOVAN (without pausing or looking up) Your brother's in the room, Mr. Mead. 
MILTON MEAD What room is it? 
AMBLER (nervous) Some sort of embolic phenomena, sir. 
BOCK Good. 
SUTCLIFFE (flagging Brubaker) Dr. Brubaker, I wonder if I could see you for a moment? 
Brubaker detaches himself from his group to join Sutcliffe. CAMERA STAYS with Bock and his entourage, following them down the east corridor, Bock still happily conducting class. Bock strides into... 
ROOM 819 
Past two beds, they group around the foot of a third bed on the right side of the room. Bock checks the patient lying in the bed. 
BOCK Still a little icteric. Who's got an opthalmoscope? 
One of the young men hands his to Bock, who leans over the patient to look through it. 
BOCK Did anyone note Roth spots? 
The doctors exchange a look as Bock rises, moves toward them, laughing. 
BOCK Well, don't worry about it. There aren't any. Ambler, you're our big man on S.B.E. What was the latex- fixation? 
BIEGELMAN It wasn't done, sir. 
BOCK Don't you think that's an important test to differentiate S.B.E. from miliary T.B.? 
BIEGELMAN (off-screen) No, s... 
BOCK Not you, Biegelman. Ambler. 
AMBLER Well, there's about a seventy percent incidence of false-positive latex in S.B.E. 
Bock hands the opthalmoscope to Ambler. 
BOCK You have been reading up. If the diagnosis were S.B.E., would a positive latex indicate anything in the therapy? 
AMBLER We'd expect the latex to become negative. 
BOCK If...? 
AMBLER If the antibiotic therapy were successful. 
BOCK Are you applying for your internship here? 
AMBLER I'm not sure. 
BOCK Come and see me. (to the patient, helping her up) Would you sit up for a minute? 
Bock turns to the off-screen patient, helping her sit up and forward, percussing her back as the students look on. 
EIGHTH FLOOR, EAST CORRIDOR 
Brubaker and Sutcliffe are now both involved in discussion with the woman, the Indian and the minister, as Bock drifts through the background, followed by the band of young doctors now dispersing. Bock crosses past the foreground group to the staff elevator. He pushes the button. Brubaker approaches Bock. They confer quietly in the hallway. 
BRUBAKER We've got a little thing over here, Doctor. The girl over there is the daughter of the patient in Eight-O- Six. He is at the moment comatose and requires intravenous feeding and meds. 
The elevator comes and goes, disgorging some, taking on others. Bock, who greeted Brubaker with a rare, benign smile, has begun to look a bit sodden. Poor Brubaker, aware of the gathering storm in Bock's demeanor, sighs and continues regardless. 
BRUBAKER The thing is, the daughter wants to take the father out of the hospital and back to Mexico where they live. The patient's name is Drummond. He's apparently a Methodist missionary, and he and his daughter run some kind of religious mission among the Apache Indians. The daughter claims to be a licensed nurse, so she can give the necessary I.V. treatment. I certainly don't think he should be let out of this hospital. The Attending -- he's the guy in gray over there -- concurs. 
Bock squints at Brubaker. 
BOCK All right, wait a minute. Let me have all that again. 
Miss Lebow and Miss McGuire clatter away at typewriters. Sitting on a chair in the crowded office is a senior staff doctor, a man in his late forties, wearing a coat similar to Bock's. He is DR. LAGERMAN. He looks up from the magazine he's been leafing through as Bock storms in. 
DR. LAGERMAN Hi, Herb... 
Bock acknowledges him with a brusque nod, storms over to Miss Lebow. 
BOCK Get me Dr. Gilley. Put him on page if you have to. I want to talk to him right now. I don't care if he's operating. (wheels around to Miss McGuire) And you get me some monkey named Ives. Ives. I-V-E-S, first name Elroy. He's in the Farkis Pavilion. 
DR. LAGERMAN Herb... 
BOCK I want to talk to you, Joe. Would you mind coming into my office? 
He strides, followed by Dr. Lagerman, into... 
BOCK'S PRIVATE OFFICE 
...and slams the door shut behind him. 
BOCK Have you got some punk named Ives rotating in your department? 
DR. LAGERMAN Listen, Herb... 
BOCK (sits at his desk) I also want to know what the hell kind of a dialysis room you're running. I just came from... 
The phone RINGS. Bock seizes it. 
BOCK Yeah... Gilley? Put him on. Bock. Didn't you tell me a couple of months ago you were going to cut off all privileges for that assassin, Welbeck? Yeah. Wellbeck. He just butchered another one of my patients... Oh, come on, Harry! The man's a buccaneer! I want him brought before the Medical Executive Committee... He's in your department, Harry, not mine. He's putatively a surgeon!... I'll be here! (slams receiver down, stares at Lagerman) Listen, Joe, I think you should know that you've got a research guy in your department named Ives who's been doing some very dubious biopsies. We're having enough trouble squeezing grants out of the Nixon administration... 
DR. LAGERMAN Ives is dead, Herb. That's why I'm here. 
This gives Bock pause. He blinks at Lagerman. 
BOCK What do you mean, Ives is dead? 
DR. LAGERMAN I mean he's dead. He had a heart attack in the Emergency Room. 
BOCK He had a heart attack in the Emergency Room? 
DR. LAGERMAN Yeah. 
BOCK (blinking) What the hell is this? Some kind of plague? (stands) Where is he now? 
DR. LAGERMAN They were just taking him down to Pathology. 
HOLLY PAVILION, FIRST FLOOR, PATHOLOGY DEPT 
Bock, Lagerman and Hitchcock have gathered across the shrouded figure of Dr. Ives on a stretcher. We are in the lab section of Pathology; in the background, through the glass part of the door separating the lab from the surgery room, we can see the autopsy on Dr. Schaefer being performed. 
Schaefer's naked white cadaver is stretched out on an operating table. He has been opened up and all his vital organs are being excised. It's bloody. The autopsy is being performed by DR. BREWSTER, the Resident in Pathology, dressed in surgical scrub. 
HITCHCOCK ...and the next thing anybody knew, about three hours later, Mrs. Cushing from Accounting came in and said there was a dead man in the Holding Room. 
BOCK You don't find anything grotesque about all this? 
HITCHCOCK What do you mean? 
BOCK I mean, at half past eight this morning, we meet over a doctor who's been killed intravenously, and here we are again, four hours later, with another doctor who had a heart attack in the Emergency Room. 
HITCHCOCK Well, what're you suggesting Doctor? Do you think we have a mad killer stalking the halls of the hospital? Presumably, Dr. Ives died of a heart attack and Schaefer in a diabetic coma. People do die of these things. It's all perhaps coincidental, but I don't think I'd call it grotesque. 
BOCK How long are they going to be on Schaefer's post? 
He knocks on the glass window of the door separating the laboratory from the operating room. Dr. Brewster turns from his gory chore. Bock makes a gesture saying, "How much longer?" Brewster raises ten blood-drenched rubber-gloved fingers. Bock turns and shuffles across the lab for the door out. 
PHARMACY 
...where he quickly runs his finger along the second shelf until he comes to the bottle of potassium which he filches off the shelf and slips into his pocket. He rummages through the drawers for a hypodermic syringe. Through the open doorway, we see Nurse Devine making her way swiftly up to Mrs. Dunne at the desk. 
NURSE DEVINE Well, honey, we got a witch-doctor in Eight-O-Six, and you better go in there. You know that Indian that was sitting in Eight-O-Six all night? He's still there, and the girl's there, and they're doing some voodoo in there, and I ain't kidding. 
Behind Mrs. Dunne, Bock appears in the doorway to the pharmacy where he stands listening. 
MRS. DUNNE (looking up) What are you talking about? 
NURSE DEVINE I mean that Indian's in there, half- naked and going pis-pis-pis with a little bag. You just better get in there, Mrs. Dunne. 
Mrs. Dunne, annoyed, gets up and heads for the west corridor, followed by Nurse Devine and by an intrigued Dr. Bock at a few paces behind. 
NURSE DEVINE (to NURSE WEITZENBAUM, coming out of another room) You want to see somethin', baby? You jus' come here. 
As the small procession bears down, Barbara Drummond slips out of that room to intercept them. 
BARBARA (keeping her voice low) Look, it's a perfectly harmless ceremony, nothing to get excited about. It'll be over in a few minutes anyway. Mr. Blacktree is a shaman who gets his power from the thunder, and it's imperative he conclude his rituals while the storm is still going on. 
NURSE DUNNE Visiting hours were over at nine o'clock, Miss. 
Bock reaches for the door to the room. 
BARBARA All that's going on in there, Doctor, is a simple Apache prayer for my father's recovery. 
Bock makes a vague noise, neither contradicting her nor assenting, and continues around her into... 
ROOM 806 
As Bock slides in, a bit of the corridor light comes in with him. The curtains have been left sufficiently open to reveal Mr. Blacktree. He is still stripped to the waist and marked with crosses of pollen. He extends two twigs to the four directions after which he places the twigs carefully on the white sheet covering Drummond in a pattern around the amulet already there. Behind Bock, Mrs. Dunne can be seen peeking in. The Indian is oblivious to both of them. Bock watches it all with interest for a moment and then backs out into... 
EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR 
...closing the door after him. 
BARBARA The markings he's made on my father's arms are from the pollen of the tule plant. The twigs have no significance other than they've been struck by lightning and are consequently appeals to the spirit of lightning. It's all entirely harmless, a religious ceremony, not a medical one. 
BOCK You don't seriously believe all that mumbo-jumbo will cure him? 
BARBARA On the other hand, it won't kill him, Doctor. 
They regard each other levelly. 
BOCK (grunts) Okay. Go ahead. 
He wheels and clumps off for the stairway exit. 
BARBARA Thank you. 
Nurse Weitzenbaum opens the door of the room and peeks in. At the stairway exit, Bock pauses to look back at all the women in front of Room 806. 
BOCK Miss Drummond, are you still taking your father out? 
BARBARA Yes. I still have to arrange an ambulance service. Is there a phone around I could use? 
BOCK Use my office. 
BARBARA Thank you. 
Bock exits. Barbara edges past Weitzenbaum, who is still peeking into the room. 
ROOM 806 
BARBARA I expect you can call me Barbara, considering you ravished me three times last night. 
BOCK Three times? 
BARBARA Oh, look at him, pretending he didn't count. You were as puffed up as a toad about it. Punched a couple of holes in your crusade for universal impotence, didn't it? I think we're on a first name basis by now. I'll call you Herb. 
BOCK Let's give your father a week, Barbara, what do you say? 
BARBARA (a frown darkens her face) No, I don't want my father in this hospital. I had a dream about this hospital. (some of the terror shows on her face) I dreamt this enormous starched white tile building suddenly erupted like a volcano, and all the patients, doctors, nurses, attendants, orderlies, the whole line staff, the food service people, the aged, the lame -- and you right in the middle -- were stampeding in one hideous screaming suicidal mass into the sea. (she stares at him wide-eyed, reliving the dream) I'm taking my father out of here -- and as quickly as I can. 
They stare at each other, she in terror, he with affection. 
BOCK You're a real fruitcake, you know? 
She sets her coffee down on the couch and decides to wear Bock's overcoat rather than use it as a cover. She searches for the sleeves. Bock assists her. 
BARBARA Well, let me put it this way. I love you. I fancied you from the first moment you came lumbering down that hallway upstairs. I said to Mr. Blacktree, "Who's that hulking bear of a man?" The Apaches are reverential about bears. They won't eat bear meat; they never skin bears. Bear is thought of as both benign and evil, but very strong power. Men with bear power are highly respected and are frequently said to be great healers. 
By now she's standing, the overcoat reaching her toes. She looks down at Bock perched on the couch. 
BARBARA I said to Mr. Blacktree, "That man gets his power from the bear." 
BOCK Swell. Now, look, do you have a hotel, some sort of accommodations where you can stay for a week or so? 
Barbara reaches for her coffee, sips, moves around in her tent of a coat. 
BARBARA All right, let me put it this way, Herb. My father and I accept the implacability of death. If he dies, he dies, but I'm taking him out of here and back to Mexico about one o'clock this afternoon. I want you to come with us, because I love you and want children. 
BOCK I'm afraid Mexico sounds a little too remote for me. 
BARBARA We could use you down there, you know. There's a curiously high incidence of T.B. And you'd be a doctor again, Herb. You'd be necessary again. If you love me, I don't see what other choice you have. 
BOCK What do you mean, if I love you? I raped you in a suicidal rage. How did we get to love and children all of a sudden? 
BARBARA Oh, for heaven's sake, Herb, I ought to know if a man loves me or not. You must have told me half a hundred times last night you loved me. You murmured it, shouted it; one time, you opened the window and bellowed it out into the street. 
BOCK I think those were more expressions of gratitude than love. 
BARBARA Gratitude for what? 
BOCK Well, my God, for resurrecting feelings of life in me I thought dead. 
BARBARA Well, my God, what do you think love is? 
BOCK Okay, I love you, and you love me. I'm not about to argue with so relentless a romantic. Well, then, since we have this great passion going for us, I don't see why you won't stay on here in New York for a week or ten days... 
BARBARA It's up to ten days now. 
BOCK As long as it takes for your father's condition to improve. 
BARBARA No. I've had these prophetic dreams for seven nights. Seven is a sinister number. The meaning of these dreams is very clear, seven times as clear. I am to get my father and you out of this hospital before we are all destroyed. 
BOCK (throws up his hands) You're certifiable! My God, half the time you're a perfectly intelligent young woman, and then suddenly you turn into a goddam cabalist who believes in dreams, witchcraft and bear power! And I don't like the way you dismiss my whole life as unnecessary. I do a lot of healing right here in Manhattan. I don't have to go to Mexico for it. I also teach. I send out eighty doctors a year into the world, sometimes inspirited, at least competent. I've built up one of the best damned departments of medicine in the world. We've got a hell of a heart unit here and a hell of a kidney group. A lot of people come into this hospital in big trouble, Miss Drummond, and go out better for the experience. So don't tell me how unnecessary I am. 
BARBARA (who's been slipping into the nurse's uniform) Yeah? 
BOCK Yeah. 
BARBARA So how come, eight hours ago, you were trying to kill yourself with an overdose of potassium? 
BOCK Where are you going now? 
This last in reference to Barbara crossing to the secretaries' office, zippering her uniform. 
SUNDSTROM Welbeck, I'm terribly sorry, but I do have this meeting. (crosses to the door) In any event, there's nothing I can do about it. If Gilley wants to cut your privileges, he's Chief of Surgery, it's within his province. You'll have to have the hearing... 
He exits, followed by Welbeck into the... 
DIRECTOR'S SUITE, SECRETARIES' OFFICES 
Buzzing now. Typewriters clicking. Phones ringing. 
WELBECK I have a laparotomy laid on for this morning. I assume I'll be allowed to go through with that. 
SUNDSTROM Of course. 
WELBECK (huffing a little) I've been associated with this hospital for six years... 
SUNDSTROM Now, now, Welbeck. It seems to me I've had your name down here before for something... (to his secretary en passant) I'll be in the staff room. 
He and Welbeck pass out into the... 
EXECUTIVE CORRIDOR 
Flowing with a normal stream of traffic, Sundstrom and Welbeck turn right and head down to the last room of the corridor. Something comes to him, and Sundstrom pauses. 
SUNDSTROM Wait a minute. You're the fellow with the Medicaid collecting business who incorporated and went public, right? I mean, something like that? Milton Mead was telling me about you just the other day. You're a whole medical conglomerate. You've got a Factoring service, a computerized billing company, and a few proprietary hospitals, a few nursing homes. Good heavens, Welbeck, you shouldn't be brought up before a committee of mere doctors. You should be investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. You'll have to go through with the hearing, Welbeck. I don't interfere in these things. 
He opens the door of the staff room and strides in. Even before he enters, we get a blast of angry voices, both male and female. For the moment the door is ajar, we see a harried Milton Mead being assailed by angry blacks and Puerto Ricans and young white activist doctors. 
HOSPITAL LIBRARY 
VOICES (all overlapping) ...no goddam halfway house, no way, baby! We ain't gonna wait 'til 1973 to deal with this problem! We want to kill the drug thing right now!... imperializing the Blackaporican community, and we reject the bourgie- ass middle-class black traitors and flunkies who are selling out the Blackaporican proletariat masses to the expansionist, racist policies of this shit hospital!... 
WOMAN Let's get back to the abortion issue! 
VOICE Sit down, Woman! 
WOMAN What the hell does the male establishment know about abortions? 
There's an agitated reaction in the crowd. 
BLACK WOMAN Who the hell raised the issue of birth control? The issue at hand is the control of drug addiction in this community and in the ghetto generally. 
A black man jumps up and points off right. 
BLACK MAN We don't want no goddam abortion... 
A white doctor jumps in from the left. 
WHITE DOCTOR Let's... let's get down to the core of this matter. 
More murmuring. A Che Guevara -- styled revolutionary moves toward Mead and Sundstrom at the table. 
MAN The point is that this hospital is the landlord for those buildings and they should've turned them down. 
Angrily, he leans over the table facing Sundstrom. 
MAN Those buildings are imperialistic extensions of the medical establishment. This hospital ought to be rebuilding those tenements, give those people decent housing. 
Sundstrom raises his hands for quiet and starts to rise. The hostile din has gotten to him. 
SUNDSTROM Please, please, please! 
HOLLY PAVILION, ROOM 
William Mead is transferred from his bed to a rolling stretcher by an orderly in shirt and trousers and by Nurse Felicia Chile. Nurse Chile tucks Mead in. He opens his eyes to look at her drowsily. 
Just like on TV -- well, almost. The surgeon, DR. MALLORY, a bad-tempered man in his fifties, sits on a stool with his gloved hands wrapped in a towel, waiting for the two surgical RESIDENTS to finish painting the operable area, which happens to be the abdomen. It's a hysterectomy. The patient is sheeted except for the small square of abdominal area. 
DR. MALLORY Mangafranni, right? 
SCRUB NURSE Right. 
DR. MALLORY (grumbles to one of the residents) What do you say, huh? We're not going to hang it in the Louvre, you know. 
The anesthesiologist, DR. CHU, injects pentathol in the I.V. tube. 
DR. CHU Bring a mask over. 
The RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST trundles over the oxygen tank, takes the hypodermic syringe from Dr. Chu, who now applies the oxygen mask to the enmarbled profile of the patient. He studies the gauges and equipment around him at the head of the operating table. 
RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST There's no pulse, Doctor. 
DR. CHU What's the pressure? 
RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST There's no blood pressure, Doctor. 
DR. CHU No pulse. Get the tube and E.K.G. 
DR. MALLORY What's the matter? 
RESIDENT I can't feel a thing, sir. 
The room galvanizes into the swift, silent activity of a chest massage. Dr. Mallory, standing and stretching in the back of the room, turns and moves toward the off-screen patient. He begins a vigorous rhythmic massage of the patient's rib cage over the heart. 
DR. MALLORY What the hell happened? 
Dr. Mallory thumps the patient's chest hard with his fist, and the others, likewise, go to work. 
DR. CHU I don't know. She must have thrown an embolus. She was doing fine up to now. (to Resident Anesthesiologist) Did you check the gasses? 
RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST I did, sir. 
DR. CHU The only time I ever saw anybody conk out like this, some jerk switched the nitrous oxide and the gas lines. 
The scrub nurse is applying electrode paste to the defibrillators. Dr. Mallory yanks the sheets and hospital shirt off the patient and begins very rigorous massage of the exposed ribs; we can hear one rib crack. 
DR. MALLORY Get the damn leads on. For Chrissakes, what the hell is this?! 
RESIDENT She's just a young woman, sir. Do you think we should open the chest? 
DR. MALLORY (defibrillating) She's fifty-three, you buttonhead! 
RESIDENT (off-screen) Bicarb? 
Dr. Chu, who has been inserting some suprel and bicarbonate into the tube of the patient's I.V., is frowning at her rigid, white-capped face. He leans over to check the E.K.G. readings. 
DR. CHU She's fibrillating, Doctor. 
Mallory straddles the patient. He's doing heavy heart massage. 
DR. MALLORY Jesus H. Christ! 
DR. CHU Okay, stop for a minute... Doctor... 
Dr. Chu pushes back, the operating cap on the patient's head, revealing jet-black hair. Mallory starts to massage again. 
DR. MALLORY (barking at the scrub nurse) You got those paddles ready? 
Dr. Chu stares blankly at the patient's face, then looks up at the sweating surgeon, perched on the operating table, rhythmically crushing away at the patient's rib cage. 
Barbara is disappearing into an elevator. Bock starts after her, then turns back to Lagerman. 
BOCK What do you mean, she died on the operating table in O.R. Three? 
They hurry down the corridor to the elevators. 
BOCK You mean she was the one? 
LAGERMAN That's the one. I just identified her. 
BOCK What the hell's going on around here? Every time I try to find somebody in this hospital, they either died of a heart attack in Emergency or of anesthesia shock in an operating room. 
Elevator doors open. A nurse and visitor get out. Bock and Lagerman go into... 
THE ELEVATOR 
Two or three people besides the elevator operator are there, as well as a patient on a stretcher and an orderly. 
LAGERMAN Listen, I just came from the O.R. They're trying to find a Dr. Schaefer. Don't you have a kid named Schaefer in your service? 
BOCK (scowls, mutters) I had a Schaefer. He died yesterday of an overdose of insulin. What do they want Schaefer for? 
LAGERMAN The Holding Room nurse says there was a Dr. Schaefer hanging around the Holding Room. It wouldn't have been your Schaefer anyway. The nurse says it was senior staff, a middle- aged man. 
BOCK There's no senior staff named Schaefer in this hospital. 
LAGERMAN I told them that. I said, I don't know any senior staff around here named Schaefer. They've got detectives down there, everything. It's a whole big investigation. 
The elevator stops at the seventh floor. The doors open and Bock and Lagerman stroll into... 
HOLLY PAVILION, SEVENTH FLOOR, CORRIDOR 
Bock lumbers down the west corridor, turns into... 
ROOM 806 
William Mead, sedated and apparently zonked out cold, is being transferred from a stretcher back into bed by an O.R. orderly and nurse's aid. Bock rolls back the curtains around Drummond's bed revealing the comatose patient, his face sculptured against the white pillow, an I.V. tube in his right arm, a catheter projecting from under the sheet. Bock lowers the protective railing, leans in, takes the man's pulse on his neck, raises one closed eyelid, then the other. The pupils stare vacuously back at him; the eyelids drop closed as soon as they are released. 
In the background, the orderly and aid finish tucking in William Mead and exit, wheeling their creaking stretcher out. The room is shockingly silent. Bock goes to the window and frowns in thought. 
HOLD ACROSS the patient Drummond, on Bock in the background at the window with his back to us. Suddenly, Drummond's eyes open. He lies rigid, his eyes staring dementedly into the air above him. 
Slowly, his left hand reaches out and carefully withdraws the catheter from his bladder, lays it on the white sheet beside him, and silently reaches over to withdraw the I.V. needle from his right arm. He lets the needle dangle, dripping onto the bed. Carefully, he twists out from under his sheet, swings his legs over the side of the bed and sits up. 
REVERSE ACROSS Bock at the window, pondering. With a swift lash of movement, the double tubes of a stethoscope are whipped over his head and tightened around his throat. 
DRUMMOND (mad as a hatter) I am the Fool for Christ and the Paraclete of Caborca. 
CLOSE TWO SHOT of Bock being strangled, Drummond's face frozen in bland dementia behind him. 
BARBARA'S VOICE (off-screen) For heaven's sake, Dad! What the hell's going on? 
Drummond pauses in his strangling and, releasing the poor man altogether, turns to his daughter in the doorway. 
CAMERA DOLLIES to include all three -- Bock recuperating; Drummond staring madly; and Barbara infuriated with her father. 
BARBARA (annoyed) We all thought you were at Death's Door! What're you doing out of bed? 
Drummond, abashed, stands there, a scolded schoolboy, a rawboned figure in a hospital shift, a stethoscope dangling from his right hand. 
BARBARA (to Bock) What happened? Did he say anything to you? 
BOCK (sufficiently recovered) As a matter of fact, he said, "I am the Fool for Christ and the Paraclete of Caborca." And you'd better close the door, because if he's going to tell everyone who walks in here he's the Fool for Christ and the Paraclete of Caborca, they'll put us all away. He's already killed two doctors and one nurse. 
SCHAEFER (on phone) Hey Sheila, this is Howard, Sheila. Hey listen, I got us a bed for tonight. A real, honest-to-god bed. 
ROOM 806. NIGHT 
REPRISE the scene originally played UNDER CREDITS where Dr. Schaefer and his girlfriend Sheila sneak into the room and undress. Giggles and shushings, gooses and fondles. 
SHEILA Boy, I sure hope nobody walks in. 
During the replay, however, an additional segment is added. At one point, the girl, hanging her dress in the armoire, turns and holds something up. 
SHEILA What's this in your pocket? 
SCHAEFER That's my insulin. Put it back. 
SHEILA What do you take insulin for? Diabetes? I didn't know you were a diabetic. 
SCHAEFER It ain't contagious, don't worry about it. 
They head for the unoccupied bed. CLOSE-UP on Drummond's profile. 
ROOM 806 
Dark, hushed. Schaefer's girl is leaving; she tiptoes to the door, peeks out. Apparently, the coast is clear. She quickly slips out. 
ROOM 806. DAY 
Drummond on his chair. Barbara perched on one side of her father's bed, Bock on the other. William Mead sleeps on. 
BOCK And you put Schaefer's insulin into the I.V. jar. 
DRUMMOND Yes. And then a second nurse came and plugged the I.V. jar into Schaefer. God clearly intended a measure of irony here. The hospital was to do all the killing for me. All I need do was arrange for the doctors to become patients in their own hospital. Accordingly, the next morning, I set out for Dr. Ives. I put on Dr. Schaefer's uniform, pinched some digoxine from the pharmacy and a sandbag from a utility cart, and found my way to Dr. Ives' laboratory. I coshed him with the sandbag, gave him a massive shot of the digoxine. This, you see, brought on an instant condition of cardiac arrhythmia. When he came to, I brought him down to the Emergency Room. 
EMERGENCY ROOM AREA, LOBBY. DAY 
The usual E.R. crush and motion goes on in the background. Drummond escorts an obviously ill Dr. Ives to the Admitting Room. Drummond's voice under the narration explains matters to Miss Aronovici at the desk. 
DRUMMOND This is Dr. Ives. He's in the Nephrology Lab. I was in there a little while ago, and he was suddenly taken ill, and I thought I'd better get him over here right away. 
DRUMMOND (off-screen) He had at that time perhaps an hour to live. Prompt treatment would have saved his life. 
They go into the... 
EMERGENCY ADMITTING AND TREATMENT ROOMS 
Ives, seated on a table in evident distress, breathes heavily. 
DRUMMOND (voice-off) As a staff doctor, he was seen without preliminaries... 
An attendant takes his pulse, pressure and respiration. Ives collapses. 
DRUMMOND (voice-off) His vital signs were taken, an electrocardiogram... 
PAN SLOWLY across the Emergency Room to catch its state of contained febrility. Every curtained treatment room is occupied, including the storage room in the back. The triage nurse and a second nurse behind the desk are busy on the phones. The triage nurse takes the history of the first in a line of five people seeking admission even as she answers her phone. 
We watch Miss Aronovici and the other nurse and Dr. Spezio and his two interns, the two attendants -- all busy with one patient or another. 
DRUMMOND (voice-off) ...which revealed occasional ventricular premature contractions. An intern took his history... 
ACROSS Drummond, white-uniformed, standing in the back against the filing cabinets and linens, watching the the new patients trickle and crowd in. 
DRUMMOND (voice-off) ...and then he was promptly... 
At the Admitting Desk, a MAN in his forties is being signed in by a uniformed cop. 
DRUMMOND To insure one full hour of uninterrupted privacy. 
BOCK Oh yes. 
DRUMMOND I got up, wheeled Miss Campanella off to the operating rooms, replaced her bed with Mrs. Mangafranni's, exchanged charts and identity bracelets. She died officially of anesthesia shock. But, in point of fact, she died because she was wearing another woman's identity. 
BARBARA (to Bock) God, what do we do now? Let me take him back to Mexico. It's a simple world there. If you turn him in, they'll just cage him in the Rockland State Hospital for the Criminally Insane. Let me take him back, Herb. 
BOCK Are you kidding? We'll both take him. I'm going with you! Get him dressed. We're getting out of here before the police put us all in Rockland State. 
DRUMMOND I haven't finished my work here. I have this Welbeck to dispose of. I am the angel of the bottomless pit and the wrath of the lamb. 
BARBARA Oh dear, he's having another revelation. 
Bock holds Drummond's coat and hat and crosses to take his arm. He finds the entranced Drummond as rigid as a statue. 
BOCK Look, that ambulance must be here by now. You go down and get them. I'll give him a shot of something to knock him out. We'll take him to the airport in the ambulance. 
They both hurry out of the room. Drummond remains enmarbled in his trance. CAMERA SUDDENLY MOVES DOWN to William Mead, whose eyes now open; he has heard it all. In background, Drummond, suddenly released from his catatonic trance, heads for the armoire and extracts the white trousers of Dr. Schaefer's uniform. He puts them on, tucking in the tails of his hospital shift. He notices William Mead staring at him. 
DRUMMOND You're hallucinating again. 
William Mead just stares at Drummond. 
EIGHTH FLOOR, NURSES' STATION AND LOBBY AREA 
Bock and Barbara come hurrying around the corner from the west corridor. Barbara heads for the elevators. Bock heads for the Nurses' Station. The Eighth Floor is going about its normal 1:15 P.M. activity. Mrs. Donovan is at her desk on the phone. 
MRS. DONOVAN ...Edwards never showed up. I'm short- staffed as hell. It's just me and Felicia. It's like Sunday. Nobody's here. 
DR. BIEGELMAN I'll be at lunch... 
A nurse's aid, a bathrobed patient and two of his visitors stroll by. It's the end of the lunch hour, when the kitchen workers bring used trays back. 
MRS. DONOVAN Yeah, you gotta send me somebody... Oh yeah? 
Bock moves past Mrs. Donovan and into the pharmacy where we see him scouring the shelves for thorazine and a syringe. An elevator arrives, disgorging Milton Mead and his resident assistant, Thomas Hitchcock and, of all people, Dr. Richard Welbeck himself. Barbara and Dr. Biegelman go into the elevator. The doors close. Milton Mead and Hitchcock head for the west corridor. Welbeck, in his natty double-breasted suit and carrying his cashmere coat, heads straight for the Nurses' Station. 
MEAD We'll be in Eight-O-Six. 
MRS. DONOVAN (chuckles into phone) ...then what did she say? 
WELBECK (to Mrs. Donovan) I'm Dr. Welbeck. I have a patient on this floor named Drummond, and I'd like to see his chart. 
MRS. DONOVAN I'll call you back. 
Bock immediately emerges from the pharmacy holding a bottle of thorazine and a wrapped hypodermic syringe. He scowls at Welbeck, who scowls back. 
WELBECK Oh, Dr. Bock. Can I have a few minutes of your time, sir? 
BOCK No. 
He starts to pass Mrs. Donovan and would continue, but Welbeck lays a restraining hand on his arm. 
WELBECK Dr. Gilley tells me you're the one who initiated these proceedings against me. 
BOCK I'm busy, Welbeck. 
WELBECK I'd like to know what you have against me. 
BOCK You turned up half-stoned for a simple nephrectomy eight days ago, botched it, put the patient into failure and damn near killed him. Then, pausing only to send in your bill, you flew off on the wings of man to an island of sun in Montego Bay. This is the third time in two years we've had to patch up your patients; the other two died. You're greedy, unfeeling, inept, indifferent, self-inflating and unconscionably profitable. Aside from that, I have nothing against you. I'm sure you play a hell of a game of golf. What else do you want to know? 
Welbeck's pocket-beeper BEEPS. 
Hitchcock looks down at the sheeted figure hunched on the bed parked in the hallway and slowly pulls the sheet off his head. William Mead stares up at him like a hunted animal. Hitchcock covers Mead's head again. 
ROOM 806 
Bock still massages, sweating bullets by now. Barbara works the ambu bag. Dr. Morse is feeling Welbeck's groin for his femoral pulse. 
DR. MORSE What do you have, Dr. Bock? 
BOCK Total cardiac arrest. 
P.A. SYSTEM (off-screen) Dr. Rigby. Dr. Rigby. Dr. Lilac. 
DR. MORSE How long has he been like this? 
BOCK About a minute. No pulse, no heartbeat, no respiration... 
If we can see anything of Welbeck through other bodies, we notice almost all his clothes have been ripped off his body. Dr. Loomis replaces Barbara. 
DR. LOOMIS All right, I'll take over. 
The two nursing supervisors have been getting the max cart ready, snapping up the gateleg-footrest and attaching the I.V. tube to the oxygen jar, and that to the ambu bag. 
BOCK Endotrachial tube. 
DONOVAN (rushing in background with others) I'm sorry, Doctor, but we have another emergency in 823. 
CHANDLER Endotrachial tube. 
DR. LOOMIS Shall we get him up on the cart? 
DR. MORSE Yeah. 
Drs. Loomis, Bock and Morse struggle to lift the the nearly naked dead weight of Dr. Welbeck up from the floor and onto the max cart. Dr. Morse has picked up Drummond's chart from the bed where Welbeck had left it. 
DR. MORSE All right, who is this patient? What's the story on this patient? 
CLOSE-UP of Bock trying to hoist Welbeck and looking up slowly. 
DR. MORSE Is this his chart, Dr. Bock? 
Bock cocks his head to him. 
DR. MORSE What's his name? Drummond? 
Bock looks across to Barbara, now helping out at the max cart. She looks back at Bock. She shrugs. He shrugs. They exchange a smile. 
BOCK Yes, his name's Drummond. That's his chart. 
Straining under the effort, the three doctors get Welbeck off the floor. 
DR. MORSE (studying the chart) Oh Christ, the poor son of a bitch just had a nephrectomy a week ago. 
Mrs. Donovan exits into... 
EIGHTH FLOOR, WEST CORRIDOR 
...as Mrs. Donovan comes out, Hitchcock turns to her. 
HITCHCOCK Was it Drummond? 
MRS. DONOVAN Who else would it be? 
Hitchcock silently thanks God. 
DRUMMOND (barely audible above the traffic rumbling heedlessly around him) Let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, for the age is closed, the season of the seventh seal is at hand! 
ROOM 806 
Bock and Barbara slip through doctors and nurses, heading for the door. 
DR. MORSE Hang isopril, two in five hundred. Let's take one more crack with the paddles. Everybody back off the cart. 
Bock, carrying two overcoats, and Barbara, wearing hers and carrying her father's valise, exit into... 
EIGHTH FLOOR, WEST CORRIDOR 
...as Bock and Barbara come out, the activity is normal, with the exception of William Mead's bed along the wall. Hitchcock and two overcoated men are in the hallway, and Hitchcock hurries to Bock. 
HITCHCOCK Is he dead? 
BOCK They can't get him out of fib. I don't think he'll make it. 
HITCHCOCK Thank God. (sighs, turns to the two detectives) This should close the case, Sergeant. 
Bock and Barbara hurry toward the elevators. 
THE HOSPITAL, HOLLY PAVILION, LOBBY 
The small army of militants and activists has broken through the security into the lobby. Their entrance is greeted by one small scream from a woman in the lobby. A LEADER of the invading troop calls out. 
LEADER Everybody take it easy! Nobody's going to be hurt! We just want the Director! 
Others in the troop shout reassurances, but it doesn't really reassure anybody. The lady in the gift shop closes her door and locks up. People crowd in a solid block in the doorway to the coffee shop to see what's going on. 
From the long tunnels of corridors, nurses, doctors, administrative personnel pause in their chores and errands and missions to watch the tide of events in the lobby. 
HOLLY PAVILION, EXECUTIVE CORRIDOR 
The exit door is wrenched open, and Bock comes hurtling into the carpeted executive corridor toward the lobby, and at that moment the troop of militants come rumbling in from the other end. Every door of the corridor fills with secretaries and administrators unsure of what's happening. Then, Sundstrom elbows his way through the clutch of secretaries in his doorway and comes into the corridor. He regards the militants moving down the corridor toward him. 
SHOUTING CROWD We want Sundstrom! We want Sundstrom! Community control! Community control! Hip-hip-Hippocrates! Up with service! Down with fees! 
SUNDSTROM You people want to see me? 
FIRST MILITANT Yeah, baby, we want to see you... 
SECOND MILITANT We're taking over this hospital, man... 
SUNDSTROM I've had it up to here. I'm not dealing with this kind of cheap blackmail! 
LEADER Now look, man. Now wait a minute there! 
FIRST MILITANT We're looking for a hostage! 
LEADER Fourteen people just got arrested for doing... 
In the background, one of their fellow revolutionaries speaks up... 
MAN Lookit, man, where's the TV camera? 
...but he's shut up by the Leader. 
LEADER Would you be cool, man? (now yelling) Fourteen people got arrested for doing nothing but living in their homes, which you people threw them out of. 
CROWD Right on! 
LEADER So now we're going to arrest you. We're going to hold you hostage and we ain't letting you go un... 
