Hostage 
by 
Robert Crais 
based on his novel 
March 29, 2002 
FADE IN: 
EXT. A HYPERBLUE LOS ANGELES SKY -- DAY 
The sky is overlaid with the slow whup-whup-whup of an LAPD helicopter flashing through the frame, here and gone. 
LAPD radio transmissions crackle like static electricity around a dirty clapboard bungalow that looks like the puckered asshole of Eagle Rock. 
A man's terrified voice screams invisibly from the house -- 
MALIK'S VOICE I'm gonna kill this dog!  You make my wife talk to me or I'm gonna shoot this fuckin' dog! 
A five-member SWAT tactical team appears out of nowhere--full black assault gear, M5s, gloved and masked--hustling into position on either side of the front door.  Only now do we get the full picture:  Helicopters overhead, radio cars surrounding the house, an army of cops itching the pull the trigger -- 
When the tac team is good to go, the team leader gives a thumbs-up to -- 
SERGEANT JEFF TALLEY AND LT. MURRAY LEIFITZ 
Talley and Leifitz are hunkered behind the LAPD Command and Control van.  Leifitz is the Crisis Response Team SWAT commander; Talley, the primary negotiator.  It's so hot out here that Talley has stripped down to a tee-shirt and vest. 
LEIFITZ They're good to go, Talley.  Your word, and we're in the house. 
TALLEY No one's going anywhere, L-T.  We can talk this guy down. 
Talley lifts a dedicated crisis phone that's been hardlined into the house, his tone reasonable and friendly -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) (into the phone) Hey, George?  George, don't kill the dog, okay?  We don't want to hear a gun go off in there. 
A phone crashes through the window and lands in the front yard -- 
MALIK'S VOICE (screaming from the house) Fuck you! 
LEIFITZ I don't think he wants to talk. 
Frustrated, Talley slumps back against the van as the SWAT Intelligence Officer, Lloyd Keith, scuttles up to them -- 
TALLEY Where's the guy's wife? 
KEITH She didn't take the kid to her sister's. The neighbors were wrong. 
TALLEY Goddamnit, you said we had her.  I told him we had her! 
KEITH We got bad information, Talley.  I can't pull her out of my ass! 
Up at the house, George Edward Malik steps into the window. Malik is a forty-year-old freaked-out loser who has turned the corner on insanity -- 
MALIK (shouting at Talley) You said my wife was gonna talk to me, you lying fuck!  I'm gonna kill her dog, then shoot myself!  I mean it! 
Talley stares at Malik, thinking, then abruptly grabs Keith by the collar -- 
TALLEY (to Keith) Pull the dog's name out of your ass.  Get the dog's name. 
Talley steps out from behind the command van so that Malik can see him. 
LEIFITZ (alarmed by Talley's move) Talley!  You're in the line of fire! 
Talley ignores Leifitz; he is totally focused on Malik and on defusing the situation -- 
TALLEY I didn't lie to you, George.  You scared your wife pretty good last night.  We're having a hard time finding her. 
MALIK She better talk to me!  I'm gonna kill her goddamned dog! 
TALLEY You and I have been talking for, what, sixteen hours?  Keep talking.  Is that your dog, too? 
Malik steps away from the window -- 
MALIK'S VOICE I don't know whose dog it is.  She lied about everything else, so she probably lied about the dog. 
TALLEY I know you're hurting.  You lose your job, you find out your wife's fucking another guy . . . but don't give up. We'll have her talk to you. 
MALIK'S VOICE Then why won't she open her mouth?!  Why doesn't the bitch say something??? 
Something about Malik's statement bothers Talley.  The wording is odd, suspicious -- 
TALLEY George?  Come back to the window. 
MALIK'S VOICE STOP LOOKING AT ME!!! 
Talley grows even more concerned.  Was Malik talking to him? 
TALLEY George?  Leave the dog alone and come to the window. 
Talley sees Keith rejoin Leifitz -- 
Margaret watches their red pickup lurch away, then rushes into the store -- 
INT. THE TRUCK -- DAY 
Dennis power-shifts into gear, clashing tortured metal as he pushes the Toyota as hard as it will go.  No one is talking; they're screaming -- 
KEVIN There's fuckin' blood all over you! 
DENNIS I didn't know he would have a gun!  It just went off! 
Dennis sees himself in the rearview mirror.  His face is splattered with red dew, the sight of it freaking him out -- 
DENNIS (CONT'D) Jesus!  Fuckin' Jesus, it's on my face! 
The trunk careens crazily off the road.  Mars calmly runs a hand over Dennis's face -- 
MARS Relax.  It's only blood. 
Dennis upshifts hard again, the truck lurching as the tranny howls -- 
DENNIS FUCK you, Mars!  I got it all over me! 
-- whereupon the tortured transmission gives with a loud BANG and the truck loses power -- 
DENNIS (CONT'D) MotherFUCKING piece of SHIT!!! 
EXT. FLANDERS ROAD -- DAY 
Flanders Road is lined with trees, hedges, and the exclusive housing developments that dot the countryside around Bristo Camino. 
The Toyota jerks to a stop well off the road, and Dennis, Mars, and Kevin pile out, stuffing pistols and bullets into their pockets -- 
KEVIN That woman's gonna call the cops. 
DENNIS Shut up, goddamnit!  Just calm down! 
KEVIN What if he's dead?  What if you killed him? 
Dennis grabs him by the throat; Mars steps between them -- 
MARS People are looking. 
Dennis sees that Mars is right; people in passing cars are looking.  He releases his brother -- 
DENNIS That's why we gotta keep going.  I'm not gonna go in for murder. 
KEVIN We're on foot.  We can't get away. 
DENNIS We're surrounded by houses, dumbass. Every house has a car in the garage. All we have to do is take one. 
Dennis and Mars take off for the wall, Kevin reluctantly following -- 
EXT. WALTER SMITH'S HOME -- THE CUL-DE-SAC -- DAY 
The camera reveals a two-story California Mediterranean home in the exclusive housing development known as York Estates. You can't get in the door for less than one-point-five, and this house costs more:  Eight thousand square feet of used brick and custom tile set on a lushly landscaped acre -- 
WALTER SMITH'S VOICE You can pick them up whenever you want. 
INT. WALTER SMITH'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Walter Smith is at his computer behind his desk.  He's forty and fit, casually dressed with thinning hair and glasses, currently leaning back as he talks on his phone -- 
WALTER (into the phone) I have his corporate and personal on two disks, labeled Marlon and Al. 
As Smith talks, he ejects a Zip disk from his computer, attaches a label reading Al, then places it in a palm-sized case beside the first disk, Marlon -- 
WALTER (CONT'D) What, you don't have a sense of humor? He's going to love it. 
Walter's ten-year-old son, Thomas, suddenly charges around the desk and pulls at his father's arm -- 
THOMAS My stomach is eating me! 
WALTER (into the phone) Yeah, that's Thomas, the human piranha. I have to feed the animals while Pam's in Florida with her sister. 
THOMAS My stomach has teeth!  It's eating my guts! 
WALTER (still with the phone) Listen, is Glen on his way?  Great.  The paper's bagged and ready to go.  Bye. (hangs up; then) All right, all right, all right--it's feeding time! 
Walter allows his son to pull him around the desk to -- 
EXT. THE SMITHS' BACK YARD -- THE POOL -- DAY 
A boom box blasts the latest teendiva megahit as Walter's sixteen-year-old daughter, Jennifer, stretches out in cutoff shorts and a bikini top, working on her tan. 
Walter and Thomas appear in the French doors that open from the back of the house -- 
WALTER (calling) Jen!  Come feed your brother!  He's wasting away! 
JENNIFER Can't we send him to Florida? 
WALTER Jen, c'mon, chop-chop!  I've got to finish my work! 
Jennifer rolls her eyes, rises from the chaise longue, and pads to the house.  As she clears the frame, the camera swings toward the overgrown wall at the edge of the property. Dennis silenty drops into the bushes -- 
WELCH (into his radio mike) They had to go through the yard at 455 Castle Way.  I'm going to approach. 
Welch slowly moves up the walk toward the front door -- 
INT. THE ENTRY -- DAY 
Dennis shoves Jennifer to the door -- 
DENNIS Open it!  You remember I'm right here! 
EXT. THE HOUSE -- WITH WELCH 
Welch is halfway up the walk when the door opens and Jennifer, clearly terrified, peers out.  Welch hesitates -- 
WELCH (into his mike) Teenage female opened the front door. (to Jennifer) Miss, I found an abandoned vehicle on the other side of your wall.  Did three young men run through the area? 
Jennifer doesn't answer.  Her eyes fill until two huge tears roll down her cheeks.  Welch grows uneasy.  Something is wrong, but he doesn't know what.  He stays where he is -- 
WELCH (CONT'D) Miss? 
JENNIFER I didn't . . . see anyone. 
Welch stares into Jennifer's eyes, pointedly shifting his gaze to ask the silent question:  Are they here? 
INT. WALTER'S OFFICE -- MARS AND KEVIN 
are peering out the shutters when -- 
Mars suddenly shouts -- 
MARS He's going for his gun! 
Mars opens fire, shooting through the window as -- 
DENNIS 
kicks the door closed and fires through the door, Jennifer screaming, as -- 
EXT. THE HOUSE -- DAY -- MIKE WELCH 
tumbles backward, struggling weakly to pull his gun as blood bubbles in his mouth.  He tries to rise, but can't -- 
WELCH (into his radio) Officer down.  Jesus, I've been shot. 
RADIO VOICE Mike?  Mike, what did you say?! 
Mike Welch blinks at the sky, but cannot answer -- 
INT. BRISTO CAMINO POLICE DEPARTMENT -- DAY 
It's the kind of small-town police facility you might expect: A general room with desks and computers, a coffee machine, and a desk officer who thinks that crime is two teenagers egging a house. 
The camera establishes the low-key atmosphere, during which it finds a glass door labeled J. Talley, chief of police -- 
INT. TALLEY'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Jeff Talley is behind the desk, his voice muted because he is locked in a painful phone conversation -- 
TALLEY (into phone) It's really hard, Jane.  This isn't the way I want it. 
INT. JANE'S KITCHEN -- DAY 
Jane Talley is an attractive woman in her mid-thirties.  She has the efficient manner of a registered nurse, which she is, and right now she's using all of her professional detachment to keep herself together -- 
JANE (into phone) No?  Then whose idea was it for you take a job in the middle of nowhere? 
Intercut Talley, who considers the photographs that decorate his wall:  Shots of Talley in happier times with Jane and their teenaged daughter, Amanda; Talley as a young SWAT officer; the framed headline from the Bristo Weekly Standard proclaiming:  EX-SWAT COP NEW BRISTO CHIEF! 
TALLEY I need to work out some stuff. 
JANE You're hiding, Jeffrey.  You're hiding from the job and you're hiding from me. 
TALLEY I still see that boy's eyes. 
Jane softens; she knows that a part of him is in terrible pain.  But she's in pain, too -- 
JANE That happened a year ago.  You've been gone for almost six months.  How long do you have to punish yourself for something that wasn't your fault? 
Talley studies the picture of his wife and daughter.  He focuses on Amanda -- 
TALLEY Is Amanda there? 
Jane cups the phone and calls to her daughter.  Amanda enters and goes to the refrigerator.  She's fifteen and carrying the weight of a seriously bad attitude -- 
JANE (to Amanda) It's Dad.  He wants to speak with you. 
AMANDA (doesn't even glance over) I'm gonna see him later. 
JANE (back to Talley) She has to go to the bathroom. 
Jane turns away and lowers her voice, not wanting Amanda to hear -- 
JANE (CONT'D) You're not only punishing yourself, Jeff. Amanda and I are in this, too. 
TALLEY (CONT'D) This is Talley.  Who's on? 
His radio crackles with overlapping voices -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) One at a time!  Clear the air! (as they settle) Louise?  Talk to me.  What do we have? 
LOUISE'S VOICE Junior Kim was DOA at the hospital. 
Frantic voices once more overlap -- 
COP VOICES What about Mike?  Is Welch alive?  What happened? 
TALLEY (forcefully) Quiet!  I want radio discipline. (as they quiet) Mike's hanging in.  Larry, Jorgy?  Listen up. 
JORGENSON'S VOICE Go, Chief. 
TALLEY Find out who lives at four-five-five.  We gotta know who's in there. 
LOUISE'S VOICE Chief?  Mike said a young girl answered the door. 
TALLEY Did he say if she was shooting at him? 
LOUISE'S VOICE (hesitant) He didn't say. 
TALLEY Then we don't know if she's part of this or not.  Mickey, you up? 
MIKKELSON'S VOICE We're out two minutes, me and Dreyer. 
TALLEY Mike found a red pickup abandoned on Flanders.  You see it? 
MIKKELSON'S VOICE It's right in front of us. 
TALLEY Run a DMV on the plate for the owner's name. 
LOUISE'S VOICE I pulled Mickey and Dreyer off the minimart. 
TALLEY Jesus Christ, Louise, we can't leave a crime scene like that.  Put a unit out there. 
LOUISE'S VOICE We only have eight officers on duty, Chief. 
More sirens are approaching, but their help seems too little, too late.  Talley stares up the cul-de-sac at the Smiths' house as if this was a terrible nightmare -- 
TALLEY (to himself) That's not enough. 
LOUISE What's that, Chief?  Say again. 
TALLEY Get everyone out here.  Then call the Sheriffs.  Tell them we have a possible hostage situation. 
INT. WALTER SMITH'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Gunsmoke fills the air.  Kevin is freaking.  He throws a magazine at Mars -- 
KEVIN We could've gone out the back!  You didn't have to shoot! 
DENNIS Stop it!  They found the truck, Kev! They're already behind us! 
KEVIN We should give up.  All we're doing is making it worse. 
JENNIFER Get out of our house! 
Her voice cuts through the din. 
Jennifer and Thomas are huddled with their father on the floor, Jennifer's arms crossed to cover herself -- 
WALTER (softly) Quiet, Jen. 
JENNIFER Why don't they go?!  Why don't they leave us alone and go?! 
Dennis charges up to her, screaming and waving his gun -- 
DENNIS Shut up!  Shut the fuck up! 
Walter Smith slowly stands -- 
WALTER None of you will get out of this. 
Dennis spins toward Walter, leveling his gun -- 
DENNIS Stay down!  Stay down, goddamnit! 
WALTER I'm going to my desk. 
DENNIS You're not goin' anywhere!  Get on the fuckin' floor! 
Dennis raises the gun to Walter's face.  Walter is in complete command of himself and nowhere near scared, but Jennifer grabs his legs -- 
JENNIFER Daddy, don't! 
WALTER (casually; to Dennis) Take it easy, son.  I'm only going to my desk. 
Walter eases past Dennis, who doesn't know what to do -- 
DENNIS Get on the floor! 
Dennis finally relents and shrugs at Mars -- 
DENNIS Make sure Kevin isn't fucking off back there. 
Jennifer hurries out as Mars follows -- 
INT. THE KITCHEN -- DAY 
Jennifer goes to the counter.  Kevin is at the French doors, nervous and scared; Mars is a dark shadow behind her -- 
She kneels to a low cabinet when Mars kicks it shut -- 
MARS I thought you wanted ice. 
Mars towers over her, his groin inches from her face -- 
JENNIFER I'm getting a wash cloth for the ice. 
Mars gazes down at her, enjoying his size and power.  He steps closer, bringing his groin closer to his face. Jennifer stands, holding her arms across her breasts -- 
JENNIFER (CONT'D) Please get away from me. 
KEVIN (from the background) Mars?  What are you doing? 
Kevin's intrusion shatters the moment.  Jennifer quickly snatches a wash cloth from the cabinet, then takes an ice tray from the freezer and brings it back to the counter -- 
As Jennifer puts ice in the wash cloth, she sees the paring knife that she used for the sandwiches partially hidden by paper towels -- 
She glances at Kevin, but cannot see Mars; he's at the refrigerator behind her.  Jennifer slowly reaches for the knife -- 
MARS Hey. 
Jennifer freezes, terrified.  She pushes the knife behind the Cuisinart to hide it, then turns.  Mars is offering her a beer. 
MARS (CONT'D) Want one? 
JENNIFER I don't drink beer. 
MARS Mommy won't know.  You can do anything you want right now.  Mommy won't know. 
JENNIFER What I want is to help my father. 
Jennifer hurries past him and disappears down the hall.  Even as she leaves the phone starts ringing -- 
INT. WALTER'S OFFICE -- DAY 
The phone seems to ring louder here.  Dennis stands over it, watching the phone as if it's alive.  The phone rings again and again.  Finally, he answers -- 
DENNIS Hello? 
EXT. TALLEY'S CAR -- IN THE CUL-DE-SAC -- DAY 
Talley is once more behind his car.  He's on his cell phone, with Jorgenson nearby -- 
TALLEY (into his phone) My name is Jeff Talley.  Is this Dennis Rooney? 
Intercut Dennis on the phone in Walter's office -- 
DENNIS You with the cops? 
TALLEY The Bristo Police Department.  Look out the window.  You see the car? 
Dennis peers through the shutters -- 
DENNIS Yeah.  I'm Rooney. 
TALLEY We had an awful lot of shooting.  You need a doctor in there? 
Dennis shoots a guilty glance at Walter, then lies -- 
DENNIS We're cool. 
TALLEY Let me speak to Mr. Smith.  I want to hear it from him. 
DENNIS Fuck you.  I'm running this shit.  You talk to me. 
TALLEY How about your two friends?  You don't have a man dying in there, do you? 
DENNIS They're fine. 
Talley cups the phone to tell Jorgenson -- 
TALLEY All three subjects are confirmed inside. Call off the house-to-house. (back to the phone) Okay, Dennis, I want to explain your situation -- 
DENNIS (interrupting) You don't have to explain shit!  That Chinaman pulled a gun.  We wrestled for it.  That Chinaman shot himself. 
TALLEY Mr. Kim didn't make it, Dennis.  He died. 
DENNIS How about the cop? 
TALLEY Dennis?  I want you to release those people. 
DENNIS Fuck that.  They're the only thing stopping you from blowing us away. 
TALLEY Have still prints made from the tape. Show the landlord.  Maybe we can get a fast ID. 
Talley looks closer.  With the way Mars is positioned, we can see part of the tattoo on his head -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) Here on his head.  Is that a tattoo? 
MIKKELSON I can't make it out. 
TALLEY Says...burn it. 
On the tape, Kim slumps to the floor.  Dennis vaults across the counter and runs to the door.  Mars, however, calmly picks up Kim's gun and leans across the counter.  We couldn't see this before, but now we see a strange smile play over his face -- 
DREYER What's he doing? 
TALLEY He's watching Kim die. 
Talley watches Mars, and knows that this guy is seriously disturbed.  He is still watching the tape when Leigh Metzger calls from the door -- 
METZGER Chief? 
Talley turns.  Metzger is with Amanda and Jane -- 
EXT. MRS. PENA'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Talley, Jane, and Amanda are walking to the street.  Amanda is excited; she thinks this is cool -- 
AMANDA Are men with guns really barricaded in a house? 
TALLEY Just around the corner and up that street.  See the helicopters? 
Five news choppers now hover high over the house.  The crime scene is only two blocks away.  Close. 
JANE Wait by the car, Mandy.  Give me a minute with Dad. 
They wait until Amanda is gone, then -- 
TALLEY (apologizing) I should've called.  This thing broke right after we spoke, then everything happened so fast -- 
JANE Don't worry about it.  How are you doing? 
TALLEY The Sheriffs will take over when they get here. 
JANE But they're not here yet.  Tell me about you. 
Jane touches his arm -- 
JANE (CONT'D) Jesus, you're shaking. 
Self-conscious, Talley moves away so that he's out of reach -- 
TALLEY Why don't you guys grab some dinner at the Thai place?  I'll meet you there as soon as I can. 
JANE You sure? 
TALLEY I don't know how long I'll be stuck here. 
JANE I'm in no rush.  Maybe later we can talk. 
Talley gives her a gentle nod, then watches her walk away until -- 
TALLEY Jane? 
She turns back, her eyes asking 'what?' 
TALLEY (CONT'D) I'm scared shitless. 
JANE That's okay.  I love you anyway. 
Talley and Jane share the moment, and then she walks away. 
EXT. YORK ESTATES -- DAY 
A news chopper swings by overhead bringing us to the main entrance of York Estates.  The entrance has been blocked, and cars are being turned away, so traffic is backed up both ways along the street -- 
INT. GLEN HOWELL'S CAR -- DAY 
Glen Howell is a nice-looking man in his early forties: Sport coat, gold Rolex, deep tan.  He hammers the horn of his Mercedes S600 sedan, but it does no good; traffic is frozen -- 
A news van trying to work up the line pulls alongside, then gets jammed by the crunch like everyone else.  Howell rolls down the window -- 
HOWELL Hey, you guys know what's going on? 
An attractive Asian-American reporter leans from her window to answer -- 
REPORTER Three men took a family hostage. 
HOWELL Jesus, no shit?  My client lives in there. 
The reporter checks her notes -- 
REPORTER It's a family named Smith, Walter and Pamela Smith.  Do you know them? 
Howell stares at her emptily, then shakes his head -- 
Kevin is anything but thrilled -- 
KEVIN Everyone knows what we look like, Dennis. We won't be able to hide. 
DENNIS Jesus, first Mars, now you.  You two need anti-depressants. 
Across the room, Walter Smith shudders and moans; his face is swollen and covered with clammy sweat -- 
Jennifer is sick with worry and can't stand seeing her father like this -- 
JENNIFER My father needs a doctor.  Please. 
DENNIS Hey, I've got a situation here, in case you haven't noticed. 
JENNIFER All you're doing is watching yourself on TV.  Look at him. 
DENNIS Use more ice. 
JENNIFER I'm getting a doctor! 
Jennifer lurches to her feet and runs toward the front door. Dennis catches her in two steps and backhands her exactly the way his old man used to smack his old lady, knocking her to the floor -- 
THOMAS Jen!!! 
Thomas charges into Dennis like an angry midget.  Kevin jumps between them -- 
KEVIN Stop it!  Stop it, Dennis!  Jesus! 
Mars steps forward and jerks Thomas into the air.  Mars' physical presence is suddenly so imposing that everyone stops fighting -- 
MARS (quietly) We should tie them.  We can put them upstairs out of the way. 
It takes Dennis a moment to come up to speed with that, but then he nods -- 
DENNIS That's right.  That's a good idea, Mars. 
MARS (to Kevin) Find something:  Extension cords, rope, wire--we'll have to tie them tight. 
DENNIS Find something, Kevin.  Don't just stand there. (waves at Walter) And tie this bastard, too.  I don't want him waking up and goin' Rambo on us. 
Mars nods his approval.  Subtly, there is the beginning of a shift in power -- 
INT. JENNIFER'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
Mars pushes Jennifer inside.  Kevin follows her with duct tape and a couple of extension cords.  Mars, holding Thomas, pauses in the hall -- 
MARS Tie her to the chair.  I'll take care of the windows when I finish with the boy. 
Mars disappears with Thomas down the hall.  Jennifer stands by the chair, arms once more crossed over her breasts. Kevin can see that she's scared.  He takes a T-shirt from where she's left it on the floor and hands it to her -- 
KEVIN Here.  Put this on. 
She pulls it over her head -- 
KEVIN (CONT'D) You gotta pee? 
JENNIFER I don't see why you can't just lock me in.  It's not like I can go anywhere. 
KEVIN Either I'm going to tie you or Mars will tie you.  Which do you want? 
Jennifer sits.  Kevin pulls her hands behind the back of the chair.  As he ties her, Jennifer decides that if any of them can be reached, it's Kevin -- 
JENNIFER Thanks for the shirt. 
KEVIN Whatever. 
JENNIFER Kevin, my father needs a doctor. 
KEVIN He's just knocked out.  I've been knocked out. 
JENNIFER If my father dies they'll charge you with his murder.  Can't you make Dennis see that? 
Kevin leans back.  He knows she's right, but he doesn't believe he can do anything about it -- 
KEVIN I can't make Dennis see anything. 
A shadow moves behind Kevin.  It's Mars, standing in the door.  He holds up a wicked claw hammer -- 
MARS Look what I found. 
He enters and tests at Jennifer's binds -- 
MARS (CONT'D) You tied her like a pussy.  Make it tight. 
As Kevin reties the bindings, Mars rips the phone from the wall.  He smashes the phone jack with the hammer, crushing it.  Then he goes to the window and drives a heavy nail into the sill, nailing the window closed -- 
Mars returns to Jennifer and once more checks her binds -- 
MARS (CONT'D) Better. 
He tears off a strip of duct tape and presses it over her mouth -- 
KEVIN Make sure she can breathe. 
Talley hurries to a large sketch of the Smiths' floor plan laid out on the dining room table -- 
TALLEY That's on the second floor.  Could you climb out your window if we were downstairs to catch you? 
THOMAS They nailed the windows.  I can't get'm open. 
Martin enters with Leigh Metzger.  Talley cups the phone to give her the headline -- 
TALLEY (to Martin) I've got the boy on the phone.  He's using a cell phone. (back to Thomas) What was that, son?  I didn't hear you. 
THOMAS If I try to climb out they'll see me on the security cameras.  They would see you outside, too -- 
Thomas hears someone outside his door -- 
THOMAS (CONT'D) They're coming! 
Thomas hangs up, jamming his phone behind the bed -- 
TALLEY Thomas?  Thomas...? 
Talley lowers the phone -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) He says that his father's hurt. 
MARTIN If we have a man dying in there, we'll have to go in. 
TALLEY They have security cameras.  Rooney would see you coming. 
MARTIN Did the boy say that any of them are in immediate danger? 
TALLEY No.  He said that his father's unconscious; he didn't say he was dying. 
MARTIN Then I think we should wait.  Do you agree? 
Talley finally nods -- 
TALLEY You want me to stick around, I could -- 
MARTIN You've been here all day, Chief.  Take a break.  See your family.  If I need you, I'll call. 
Talley looks like the most tired guy in the world.  He nods his good-night, then turns away -- 
INT. TALLEY'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Talley slides into his car outside Mrs. Pena's home.  He's got a lot on his mind, and not all of it centers around 455 Castle Way.  He punches a number into his cell phone -- 
He listens to ringing, and then his own voice answers -- 
TALLEY'S VOICE MESSAGE This is Jeff Talley.  Leave your name and number after the beep. 
We hear the beep, then -- 
TALLEY (into his phone) Jane?  If you're there, pick up, okay? Mandy? 
No one answers.  Talley closes his phone, his apprehension increasing -- 
EXT. YORK ESTATES FRONT GATE -- NIGHT 
The Bristo officers manning the gate swing the blockade aside and wave Talley through -- 
EXT. MEDIA AREA -- NIGHT 
The assembled television microwave vans, radio newsvans, and reporters are parked together in an empty lot one block from the front gate. 
Ken Seymore steps into the street, speaking into a cell phone as he watches Talley drive away -- 
SEYMORE (into his phone) He's leaving now. 
EXT. RED LIGHT INTERSECTION -- DAY 
A traffic light on the outskirts of town, deserted until Talley's car pulls to a stop -- 
INT. TALLEY'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Suddenly, two masked men point guns at his head, one from the driver's side, one from the passengers.  They're wearing jackets, black ski masks, and gloves.  The man on the passenger side sports a big gold Rolex, so we'll call him the Watchman -- 
THE WATCHMAN (meaning the gun) Do you see the fuckin' gun?!  Look at it! 
Talley freezes.  He's been blindsided by this insane shit, but he knows better than to move -- 
TALLEY Take it easy. 
The man on the driver's side gets into the backseat, then the Watchman gets into the passenger side.  The man behind Talley hooks an arm around Talley's throat while the Watchman searches for Talley's gun -- 
THE WATCHMAN Where's your gun? 
TALLEY I'm the Chief.  I don't carry it. 
The Watchman nods at the backseater, who releases Talley. 
A dark green Mustang roars up ahead of Talley's car.  A second car tucks in tight on Talley's rear -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) Who are you? 
Talley clips the gun to his belt under his sweatshirt.  He's ready to rock.  The camera finds the photograph of Talley during his days as a SWAT tactical officer -- 
He was one bad motherfucker. 
INT. THE MAIN ROOM -- NIGHT 
Talley heads for the front door -- 
TALLEY I'm going back to York.  Have Larry meet me at the front gate. 
Talley exits without a backward glance -- 
EXT. YORK ESTATES FRONT GATE -- NIGHT 
The helicopters orbit in the distance; the empty lot with the news vans is in the background. 
Talley turns into the development, then stops at the side of the street where Larry Anders is waiting -- 
INT. TALLEY'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Anders slides into the passenger seat.  He sees a different Talley now, focused and grim -- 
ANDERS What's up, Chief? 
Talley stares at Anders, trying to decide:  Can I trust him? Will he rat me out to the Watchman and cost the lives of my wife and child? 
ANDERS (CONT'D) Did I do something wrong? 
Talley gives him a slip of paper -- 
TALLEY I want you to run this license plate and phone number.  Then I want you to find out everything you can about Walter Smith. ANDERS The guy in the house? 
TALLEY Go back to the office.  Run his name through the FBI and the NLETS database. I think he's involved with illegal activity or he associates with people who are. 
Anders glances at the slip again, then tucks it away -- 
ANDERS Wow.  Sure, right away, Chief. 
TALLEY Don't tell anyone what you're doing, not Louise, not the other guys, not the Sheriffs.  You understand me, Larry? 
ANDERS I guess so. 
TALLEY Fuck guessing.  You keep your mouth shut. 
ANDERS I will, Chief.  Absolutely. 
TALLEY Get to work. 
Anders climbs out and Talley rockets away -- 
EXT. COMMAND STREET -- NIGHT 
Talley pulls up behind the Sheriffs' command van.  Martin, surprised to see Talley, steps from the van -- 
TALLEY I'm re-assuming command of the scene. 
Martin is surprised and angry -- 
MARTIN Excuse me?  You requested our help.  You turned over command -- 
TALLEY And now I'm taking it back.  We're getting Smith out of the house. 
Talley heads for the cul-de-sac -- 
INT. JENNIFER'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
Jennifer is on her bed in the darkness, groggy with fear and fatigue.  She hears someone outside in the hall -- 
JENNIFER Thomas? 
The door knob rattles.  Jennifer slides out of bed and goes to the door -- 
JENNIFER (CONT'D) Thomas, is that you? 
The door suddenly opens, and Mars is framed in the dim light. Jennifer jumps back, terrified -- 
JENNIFER (CONT'D) What do you want? 
MARS We can't make the microwave work. 
That seems so outlandish that Jennifer is confused -- 
JENNIFER What? 
MARS We're hungry.  You're going to cook. 
Mars grabs her hair, and pushes her out the door -- 
INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT 
Mars shoves Jennifer into the kitchen.  Two frozen pizzas are waiting on the counter -- 
MARS Make the pizza.  I want scrambled eggs and hot dogs on mine. 
Mobile banks of flood lamps illuminate the front of the house.  The ambulance waits behind the lights; tactical officers with M5s and M16s hunker in position in case the program goes south -- 
Talley and a paramedic named Bigelow emerge between the lights, wearing only shorts and shoes.  Bigelow is carrying a collapsable stretcher -- 
They stop in the mouth of the drive with a full view of the front door.  Talley lifts his cell phone -- 
TALLEY (into the phone) Okay, Dennis, we won't approach the house until you've closed the door. 
The front door opens, a crack at first, then wider.  The line of officers behind the lights shifts -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) (over his shoulder) Easy.... 
Kevin and Mars waddle out with Walter Smith between them. They put him down about six feet from the front door, then return to the house -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) (to Bigelow) Let's do it. 
Talley and Bigelow move forward.  When they reach Walter, Bigelow opens the stretcher and locks out the frame.  He peels back Walter's eyelids and flashes a penlight -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) How's he look? 
BIGELOW He's got a concussion for sure.  I'm going to brace him. 
As Bigelow sets a cervical neck brace, Talley gets the creepy feeling that he's being watched.  He turns toward the shutters, and finds a pair of eyes only inches from his own. It's Mars. 
Talley stares at Mars, and Mars stares back.  It's as if they're locked in a contest of wills until -- 
BIGELOW (CONT'D) Let's get him on the stretcher. 
Talley turns away to help Bigelow -- 
BIGELOW (CONT'D) I'll support his head and shoulders.  You lift his hips and knees.  On three. Three. 
As they carry Walter away, Talley glances back at the eyes. Mars is still watching him -- 
IN THE CUL-DE-SAC--TALLEY AND BIGELOW 
are surrounded by cops as soon as they step into the shadows behind the lights.  Another paramedic takes the stretcher from Talley.  Maddox is waiting with Talley's clothes -- 
MADDOX You ready to tell me what's going on? 
Talley pulls on his pants -- 
TALLEY No. 
Talley stalks straight to the ambulance, pulling on his sweatshirt as he goes -- 
INT. THE AMBULANCE -- NIGHT 
A young physician named Klaus is examining Walter as Talley steps up into the ambulance -- 
TALLEY I'm the chief of police here.  I have to talk to him. 
KLAUS Ain't gonna happen.  We've got unequal pupilation.  He could have an intracranial hematoma or a fracture or both. 
Talley ignores the doctor and shakes Walter by the face -- 
TALLEY Smith!  Wake up! 
KLAUS What are you doing?!  Stop that! 
Walter's eyes flutter, one more open than the other.  Talley leans closer -- 
TALLEY (to Smith) Wake up, goddamnit.  Who are you? 
Klaus tries to shove Talley away, but it's like pushing a wall -- 
KLAUS This man needs a hospital!  Stop it! 
Talley grabs Klaus by the arm, trying to make him see -- 
TALLEY Use smelling salts, give him a shot, whatever.  I just need a minute. 
Bigelow climbs behind the wheel and starts the ambulance. Talley pounds on the wall, shouting -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) Stop the fuckin' engine! 
Klaus and Bigelow are both staring at Talley.  Sheriffs and Talley's own officers have gathered at the open rear of the ambulance to see what all the shouting is about -- 
Klaus pointedly looks at Talley's hand gripping his arm.  He speaks slowly, trying to make Talley understand -- 
KLAUS I'm not going to wake him.  I don't even know that I can. 
TALLEY Just one question.  Please. 
KLAUS He.  Can't.  Answer. 
Talley stares at Walter Smith.  So close.  So damned close. Walter knows about the disks.  Walter might even know who has Jane and Amanda.  But now Walter can't talk -- 
Talley turns away and climbs out of the ambulance -- 
EXT. THE CUL-DE-SAC -- NIGHT 
As Talley emerges from the van, he pulls Metzger aside -- 
TALLEY I thought they locked you in your room. 
THOMAS I can get into the crawlspace from my closet and climb all over the house. 
TALLEY Can you get into the office? 
THOMAS I can get into the den.  The office is right across the hall. 
Talley thinks about what the boy is saying, and what he'll have to do to get Marlon and Al -- 
TALLEY If I get Rooney into the back of the house, can you find the disks without being caught? 
THOMAS Yes, sir. 
Talley glances toward the SWAT Command Van as he comes up with a plan -- 
EXT. THE COMMAND VAN -- NIGHT 
Martin, Maddox, and several of her supervisors are gathered outside the van as Talley approaches -- 
Martin sees him coming and steps away to meet him.  She's pissed off and she wants answers -- 
MARTIN I want to know what in hell you're doing. 
TALLEY I'm looking for you.  I need your tactical unit. 
MARTIN I'm not stupid!  You can't get out of here fast enough, then you take back command; you agree to wait on Smith, then you risk everything in a stupid stunt to get him out -- 
TALLEY (interrupting) Don't question me, Captain!  This is my crime scene! 
MARTIN (shouting over him) -- then when you get him, you damn near assault the man in the ambulance!  What is going on? 
Talley glares at her, half-a-heartbeat from going off, and then he throttles back -- 
TALLEY (simply) I'm a negotiator, Captain.  I negotiate. That's all you need to know.  Now are you going to help me or not? 
Martin weighs the determination in his eyes.  She's angry, she's resentful, and she wants to knock Talley onto his ass-- but, instead, she glances back to her van -- 
MARTIN Maddox!  Let's give the man a hand! 
INT. SMITHS' DEN -- NIGHT 
Dennis steps through the double doors that open from the entry and admires the room--rich paneled walls, soft leather couches and chairs, and a lush beaten-copper bar.  Walter Smith's office is directly across the hall. 
Dennis saunters behind the bar, letting his fingers play over the copper, then pours a stiff Ketel One on the rocks. 
Kevin appears behind him, watching, as Dennis takes a seat on one of the leather bar stools, then peels a hundred off a thick roll and drops it on the bar -- 
DENNIS (to an imaginary bartender) Keep the change, m'man. 
Dennis takes a deep drink of the vodka as Kevin approaches -- 
KEVIN We're fucked. 
DENNIS We're fucked until we think of a way out; then we're rich. 
KEVIN There is no way out. 
DENNIS For chrissake, please!  Help me celebrate!  I figured it out! 
KEVIN Celebrate what?  Going to prison? 
Dennis enjoys another stiff belt -- 
DENNIS No, dumbass--Talley.  Talley's the guy who keeps us in here, and Talley's the guy who can let us out. 
Dennis grins as if he's discovered the wisdom of the ages -- 
DENNIS (CONT'D) Cops want to be rich like everyone else. All we have to do is share. (leans closer and lowers his voice) And if he wants someone to swing for the Chinaman, we'll give'm Mars. 
MARS Dennis. 
Mars is standing in the doors, large and ominous.  For an insane moment Dennis thinks that Mars has heard, but then -- 
MARS (CONT'D) The food's ready. 
Dennis grins, then shoves Kevin out of the room ahead of him, the three of them disappearing toward the kitchen as -- 
The camera drifts up to an air vent in the ceiling, through the slats in the grate to -- 
INT. CRAWLSPACE -- NIGHT 
Thomas watches them leave through a hole in the air duct. When he's confident that they are gone, he continues along the crawlspace to a service hatch that opens down into -- 
INT. WINE CELLAR - NIGHT 
The "wine cellar" is a climate-controlled closet behind the bar fitted with floor-to-ceiling wine racks. 
The ceiling hatch lifts, and Thomas climbs down the racks to the floor.  He eases open the door and peeks out behind the bar.  The den is bright with light, and empty -- 
Thomas lifts his cell phone -- 
THOMAS (whispers into the phone) It's me, Chief.  I'm in the den. 
DENNIS Would you be in a hurry to go to prison for the rest of your life? 
TALLEY I'd be trying to get the best deal that I could. 
DENNIS Maybe that's what I'm doing.  Can I reach in my pocket, show you something? 
Dennis Rooney steps closer because he doesn't want anyone else to see the wad of money he pulls out -- 
DENNIS (CONT'D) That's fifty hundred-dollar bills.  Five grand.  They got money in this house, Talley, more than you've ever seen. 
Dennis pushes the money back into his pocket. 
DENNIS (CONT'D) How much would it be worth to you, getting me out of here? 
So that's what keeps Dennis in the house--money.  This is the first that Talley has heard of the money -- 
TALLEY You picked a bad house to hole up in, son. 
DENNIS Two hundred thousand cash, right in your pocket, no one needs to know. 
TALLEY Give up. 
DENNIS There's a million dollars in there, maybe two million.  I'll give you half. 
Talley stares at Dennis, wondering how much to tell him and whether or not it will do any good -- 
TALLEY The man you sent to the hospital is a criminal.  He has partners.  This is their house and their money and they want it back. 
These simple facts settle on Dennis like a funeral shroud-- everything that Smith said earlier now makes a horrible sense:  You can't imagine the fucking you're going to get. 
Dennis's eyes fill with defeat and helplessness -- 
DENNIS It ain't been a good day, Chief. 
TALLEY Give up, Dennis.  Let these people go. At least you'll have your life. 
Dennis steps inside and pulls the door closed, the darkness in the house swallowing him like dirty water. 
The power is turned on.  The house comes to life -- 
As Talley turns away, his phone once more rings -- 
INT. THOMAS' ROOM -- NIGHT 
Thomas is hunkered with his computer behind his bed so that the camera can't see him. 
THOMAS I got'm! 
Intercut Talley, now back in the cul-de-sac -- 
TALLEY Can you open them? 
THOMAS I opened Marlon.  I think it's somebody's taxes. 
TALLEY Look for names.  Does it say whose taxes they are? 
Thomas scrolls through a spread sheet -- 
THOMAS I don't see any people names.  It's all businesses. 
TALLEY Try Al.  See if you can open Al. 
Thomas changes disks and opens Al -- 
THOMAS Yeah!  Here's a name.  This is somebody's personal tax -- 
TALLEY Who is it? 
THOMAS Charles G. Benza. (then; noise in the hall) They're coming! 
Thomas abruptly hangs up and the line goes dead in Talley's ear. 
Talley recognizes the name as easily as an East Coast cop would recognize John Gotti, and realizes the stunning import of Smith possessing Sonny Benza's financial records -- 
TALLEY Sonny Benza.  Oh, fuck. 
Talley sprints across the cul-de-sac to his nearest officer, Jorgenson, and keys Jorgenson's shoulder mike -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) (into the mike) Leigh?  Metzger, answer me! 
METZGER'S VOICE I'm at the hospital. 
TALLEY Put a guard on Smith!  I want you with Smith until I get there! 
JORGENSON What's going on? 
TALLEY Get in the car.  Now. 
Talley drops the mike and shoves Jorgenson toward the car -- 
EXT. CANYON COUNTRY HOSPITAL -- NIGHT 
Marion Clewes is stepping from his car as Talley's police unit rips into the parking lot with flashing lights -- 
THE WATCHMAN'S VOICE We're almost home, you and me.  Keep your shit together.  This isn't L.A. 
TALLEY What do you mean by that? 
THE WATCHMAN'S VOICE You don't want another dead child on your conscience. 
The line goes dead -- 
INT. THE SMITHS' DEN -- NIGHT 
Dennis is pouring another stiff glass of Ketel One -- 
DENNIS I shouldn't have told him about the money.  Now Talley is gonna keep it for himself. 
Kevin joins him at the bar.  Mars is by the doors -- 
KEVIN He said that? 
Dennis downs a big hit of vodka, then moves to the couch -- 
DENNIS If we don't escape, we gotta get the word out about the cash.  That's how we'll stay alive. 
KEVIN What are you talking about? 
DENNIS The only way he can keep the cash is if nobody knows about it.  He's gotta cap all three of us before they even read our rights.  He's probably planning it right now. 
KEVIN That's crazy.  He's not going to kill us. 
DENNIS Kevin, you're so fuckin' stupid... 
Kevin follows his brother to the couch and stares at him; Dennis has clearly lost his mind, and Kevin has reached the end of his rope -- 
KEVIN It's over.  We have to give up. 
DENNIS Fuck it's over.  That money's mine. 
KEVIN That money's fucked up your brain. Talley's going to get tired of waiting for us to give up, and we'll all be fuckin' killed! 
Dennis tips his glass, like a toast -- 
DENNIS Then we might as well die rich. 
KEVIN I'm not going to die for this! 
Kevin slaps the glass away.  Dennis boils up from the couch. He grabs his brother and the two of them fall over the coffee table, Dennis hammering Kevin in a furious rage until he runs out of gas -- 
DENNIS You're my fuckin' anchor, Kevin, the fuckin' lead around my life that I've been draggin' like a cripple leg! 
Dennis gets up and steps back -- 
DENNIS (CONT'D) Get this into your stupid head, Kevin. We're not leaving without the money. 
Beaten and whimpering, Kevin crawls away.  Dennis watches him crawl out of the room, then looks at Mars -- 
DENNIS (CONT'D) You got something to say? 
MARS I like it here, Dennis.  I'm never going to leave. 
DENNIS Fuckin' A. 
Dennis returns to the bar.  When he looks around again, Mars is gone--melted into the darkness. 
INT. JENNIFER'S ROOM -- NIGHT 
Jennifer is hiding in her shadows when her doorknob moves.  She reaches pulls the knife from her shorts, keeping it hidden as she backs away -- 
Kevin steps inside, leaving the door ajar -- 
JENNIFER What do you want? 
KEVIN Keep your voice down.  I'm taking you and your brother out of here. 
Jennifer now sees the marks and cuts on his face -- 
JENNIFER What happened? 
KEVIN Do you want to go or not?  I'm offering you a way out of here. 
JENNIFER I can't go without Thomas. 
KEVIN All three of us will go, but we have to move fast.  Mars and Dennis don't know I'm doing this. 
JENNIFER How can we get out? 
KEVIN Dennis and Mars are in the den.  I'll get your brother, then come back for you. We'll go down the stairs and out the front door, you understand? 
JENNIFER Yes. 
Kevin goes back to the door, then considers her.  Maybe he wants to apologize for all this, but the best he can manage is -- 
KEVIN Put on some shoes. 
Kevin slips out and pulls the door closed. 
DREYER Krupchek lives in a shithole. 
The trailer is dark and silent.  They walk to the door carrying their Maglites.  Mikkelson tries the knob -- 
MIKKELSON I guess we could jimmy it. 
DREYER I don't want to pay for breaking it. 
Mikkelson pulls hard and the door pops open.  Both officers cringe as a smell like simmering mustard greens rolls out at them -- 
MIKKELSON Christ, that stinks. 
INT. THE TRAILER -- NIGHT 
Mikkelson switches on the lights as they step inside.  Dreyer sees it first -- 
DREYER Mickey?  Look at this shit. 
Mikkelson joins Dreyer in the trailer's tiny kitchen where teetering stacks of folded cereal boxes fill the counters and sink and floor.  Hundreds and hundreds of Captain Crunch and Count Chocula boxes, all neatly folded and stacked -- 
DREYER (CONT'D) He's burned them. 
MIKKELSON What? 
Dreyer shows her a box.  The nose of each character has been burned with a cigarette -- 
DREYER He burned their noses. 
MIKKELSON Okay, this is creeping me out. 
Mikkelson opens the oven.  It's empty.  She opens a cupboard. It's filled with large glass jars.  She opens another cupboard.  More jars.  Shapes float in the jars, suspended in yellow fluid.  Mikkelson and Dreyer examine the shapes -- 
DREYER What are those, rats? 
Mikkelson opens the fridge, then slams it, looking like she wants to puke -- 
MIKKELSON Ohmigod.  We gotta call Talley. 
Dreyer sees the expression on her face, then looks at the fridge, wondering -- 
EXT. CUL-DE-SAC -- NIGHT 
Talley, Jones, and Jones's phony "FBI" team are moving down the cul-de-sac toward the house with Martin at their heels -- 
MR. JONES Walter Smith is in the Federal Witness Protection program.  When Washington learned about the situation here, they asked Chief Talley for his cooperation. 
MARTIN This is bullshit.  I should've been notified. 
MR. JONES I'm sure you will be, Captain, but it's after midnight.  Now, if you'll pull your people off the perimeter, I want to get my people in position. 
Martin looks like she wants to spit bullets -- 
TALLEY Let it go, Captain. 
MARTIN Goddamned small town bullshit. 
Martin relents and stalks away just as Talley's phone rings. 
Both Talley and Jones tense at the ring, thinking it might be the white phone, but it's not -- 
TALLEY It's mine. (into his phone) Talley. 
MIKKELSON'S VOICE Chief, it's Mikkelson. 
TALLEY Go, Mickey. 
EXT. KRUPCHEK'S TRAILER -- NIGHT 
Both Mikkelson and Dreyer are leaning against their car. They look shellshocked.  Mikkelson is making the call -- 
MIKKELSON Chief, we just found Krupchek's trailer. We just went in there. 
She trails off and looks at Dreyer for help:  How do I say this?  Dreyer, at a loss, looks away -- 
MIKKELSON (CONT'D) He has human body parts in his refrigerator.  He has five human heads. 
Mikkelson can't handle it any more.  She lowers the phone -- 
WITH TALLEY 
The shock that Mikkelson is feeling sweeps over Talley as well.  He takes a moment to get his head around this -- 
TALLEY (into his phone) Mickey?  Call the state Homicide Bureau. Don't touch anything, just sit back and wait. 
MIKKELSON'S VOICE Yes, sir. 
Talley lowers the phone as he stares at the house, wondering what sort of monster is in there with Thomas and Jennifer. 
His gaze shifts to Mr. Jones, who is watching him -- 
TALLEY We're getting those kids out of there. 
INT. THE SMITHS' DEN -- NIGHT 
He raises the knife to her face -- 
INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT 
The scream from the laundry room having scared the shit out of Dennis, he has his gun out -- 
DENNIS Who's that?  Goddamnit, who's there? 
Dennis turns on his flashlight and sweeps the beam across the kitchen -- 
DENNIS (CONT'D) Kev?  Is that you?  Talley? 
Dennis weaves across the kitchen, pushing the gun ahead of him -- 
DENNIS (CONT'D) Kevin, if that's you, say something. Mars said you left. 
Dennis steps through the door into -- 
INT. THE LAUNDRY ROOM -- NIGHT 
Dennis shines the light on the floor and sees the red ooze. He follows the blood to Kevin's body, but even then doesn't realize what he's seeing -- 
DENNIS Kevin, what the fuck?  Get up. 
Dennis steps closer, and now he sees the open neck, the grotesque white bone within the flesh -- 
Only one other person in the house could have done this -- 
DENNIS (CONT'D) MARS?!?! 
Dennis hears Jennifer screaming upstairs -- 
DENNIS (CONT'D) MARS!!! 
Dennis rushes from the room -- 
INT. JENNIFER'S ROOM -- NIGHT 
Dennis slams through the door so heard that the door crashes into the wall.  Mars is across the room, still holding Jennifer by the neck -- 
Dennis aims his gun -- 
DENNIS You're dead, you fuck. 
Mars calmly pulls the girl in front of him, blocking Dennis's aim. 
MARS What's wrong, Dennis?  Why're you so pissed off? 
It's weird the way Mars is acting, so calm and all.  But Dennis can see the feat in Jennifer's face and her swollen eyes.  She manages one word -- 
JENNIFER Please... 
Dennis tries to aim past her -- 
DENNIS This fuck killed Kevin.  There's blood everywhere down there -- 
Jennifer sobs.  And when she does -- 
Mars charges across the room holding Jennifer like a shield. Dennis hesitates only a heartbeat, and then it's too late -- 
Jennifer crashes into him, the full force of Mars's weight behind her, knocking Dennis backward into the hall -- 
INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL -- NIGHT 
They fall through the door into a tangle on the floor.  Mars raises the hammer, then brings it down, smashing Dennis over and over -- 
INT. JENNIFER'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
Thomas emerges from the closet to see the carnage in the hall:  Mars over Dennis, grunting like a pig as he turns Dennis into pulp, and Jennifer crawling away, splattered with blood -- 
Thomas pulls the gun from his pants and darts past Mars into the hall -- 
INT. UPSTAIRS HALL -- NIGHT 
Thomas grabs Jennifer's arm and pulls her toward the stairs -- 
THOMAS C'mon, Jen!  Run! 
Mars heaves to his feet and turns after them -- 
Thomas jerks up the pistol with both hands -- 
THOMAS (CONT'D) I'll shoot you! 
Mars stops, blood dripping from his face and hands and the hammer.  Jennifer pulls her brother -- 
JENNIFER Keep going! 
They back toward the stairs, Thomas trying to hold the gun steady.  Mars follows, spreading his arms wide as if to embrace them -- 
MARS Everyone's gone.  We can do whatever we want.  We can do anything. 
THOMAS I'll shoot you!  I'm not kidding, you better stay away! 
Talley and Jones slip up to a side window at the front of the house.  Both are carrying fire extinguishers.  They peer inside, then Jones uses a pry bar to lift the window -- 
INT. FRONT GUEST ROOM -- NIGHT 
Talley enters first, followed by Jones.  The air is thick with smoke, and the music is confusing; the hall outside the room is filled with flames -- 
Talley points toward the bedroom, then uses hand signals to countdown the launch--three...two...one -- 
Jones keys his throat mike to launch the strike -- 
MR. JONES Go -- 
They blast the flames with their fire extinguishers, then plunge into the hall -- 
INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
The sliding glass doors shatter as one of Jones's men breaches the door.  As he rolls to his feet, Mars shoots him from the flames -- 
A second man rolls through the door, and Mars shoots again, laughing as the man writhes in flames -- 
INT. HALL -- TALLEY AND JONES 
fight back the flames with their fire extinguishers, working their way into -- 
INT. THE MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
It's an inferno as Talley and Jones come through the door. They spot the two men on the floor just as -- 
Mars rears up behind the flames.  He is shirtless and glistening, screaming maniacally is he fires his gun -- 
Talley and Jones fire in unison, pounding Mars with bullets and knocking him into the fire.  Mars thrashes and screams, burning alive -- 
Talley hears pounding inside the safe room:  Jennifer and Thomas!  He fights his way to the security door, which is covered with flames -- 
TALLEY The kids are in here! 
MR. JONES Where's the office? 
TALLEY Help me, goddamnit, we can get the disks later! 
Talley expects that Jones will help, but Jones is aiming his gun -- 
MR. JONES We don't need you any more, Chief.  We can get the disks on our own. 
But before Jones can kill Talley, Mars heaves himself up from the flames, firing wildly.  He hits Jones in the head -- 
Talley fires reflexively, his powerful .45 kicking Mars across the room and out the glass doors.  Talley turns back to the burning door and douses the flames with his fire extinguisher -- 
TALLEY Thomas!  Thomas, it's me! 
Thomas and Jennifer jerk open the door, but shrink from the heat.  Talley uses the last of his fire extinguisher, then pulls them into his arms -- 
TALLEY (CONT'D) Stay close.  We're going to move fast -- 
INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL -- NIGHT 
Talley shepherds Jennifer and Thomas past the flames -- 
INT. THE ENTRY -- NIGHT 
They reach the entry, and Talley uses his pry bar to break open the door -- 
A wall of cops are out on the street, waiting -- 
TALLEY (to Thomas) Are the disks still in your room? 
THOMAS No!  They're right here -- 
Thomas pulls Marlon and Al from his pocket -- 
Talley clutches the disks and pulls the boy close in a spontaneous hug.  They run out the door as we -- 
CUT TO: 
INT. WALTER SMITH'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- LATER THAT NIGHT 
Walter is resting comfortably when Talley steps up beside his bed.  Talley is a mess--smokey, dirty, greased with sweat -- 
TALLEY (quietly) Smith. 
Walter opens his eyes, then Talley steps away.  Jennifer and Thomas are standing behind him.  They rush to their father -- 
JENNIFER/THOMAS Daddy! 
WALTER Thank God!  Are you guys all right? You're not hurt? 
THOMAS Our house is on fire!  We almost burned! 
Both children burst into tears, and Walter hugs them.  He looks up at Talley, then gently eases his kids away -- 
WALTER (to Jennifer and Thomas) You guys step out for a second.  I have to talk to the Chief. 
Walter waits until his children are gone, and then -- 
is hiding in weeds across from the motel, keeping an eye on the road for Talley's approaching vehicle.  A radio transmission crackles quietly -- 
MANELLI'S VOICE You see anything? 
Ruiz keys the mike -- 
RUIZ Not yet. 
Talley steps silently behind him and presses his gun to Mike Ruiz's ear -- 
LOU BUSTER 
Buster is on the dark side of thge parking lot, standing watch outside the pool of light in the shadows -- 
Gravel crunches behind him; Buster turns, and -- 
Talley cracks him across the face with his .45 -- 
WITH TALLEY 
He edges along the perimeter of the parking lot, working as close as he can to a Fat Man who is leaning against the green Mustang -- 
The door to a ground floor room opens, and Glen Howell steps out.  Talley recognizes Howell from the big gold watch -- 
HOWELL (to the Fat Man) Keep your eyes open.  He should've been here. 
Howell returns to the room.  The Fat Man steps away from the Mustang, and -- 
Talley slams into his blindside, using the .45 as a club. The Fat Man staggers, and Talley wraps an arm around his neck in a choke hold, running him at the door -- 
Talley rams the Fat man into the door, knocking it open and shoving the Fat Man through -- 
INT. HOWELL'S MOTEL ROOM -- NIGHT 
Talley explodes through the door with the Fat Man in front of him like a shield -- 
TALLEY (screaming) Police! 
Glen Howell jerks out his pistol as he drops behind the bed. Duane Manelli rolls out of a chair, aiming from the floor in a two-handed grip -- 
HOWELL Don't shoot!  Don't shoot him! 
Talley shifts his aim back and forth between the two men.  He has his back to the wall and the Fat Man in front of him -- 
TALLEY Where's my family?!  Where's my family, you fuck?! 
All three men are sucking air like freight engines.  No one is shooting, but if one person fires, everyone will fire. Everybody has something the other guy wants.  That's the only thing holding them back -- 
HOWELL Take it easy.  Just take it easy.  We're here to do business. 
TALLEY You said they would be here, goddamnit! Where are they? 
Howell releases his grip on the gun, and lets it swing free on his finger.  He's trying to cool Talley -- 
HOWELL They're close.  Let me make a call.  You can see they're okay. 
TALLEY You said they would be here! 
Howell takes out his phone and presses a number.  Talley shifts his aim from Howell to the Fat Man to Manelli -- 
HOWELL (into the phone) Put on the woman. 
Howell offers the phone, but Talley is wary--he can't let go of the Fat Man and he won't put down his pistol.  Howell carefully holds the phone to Talley's ear -- 
TALLEY (into the phone) Jane? 
JANE'S VOICE Jeff, we're -- 
Howell backs away with the phone -- 
HOWELL You have the disks? 
Talley takes out a single disk.  It's the one labeled 'Marlon.'  He tosses it onto the bed -- 
TALLEY You get the other one when I have my girls.  Not talk to them; have them. 
HOWELL Where is it? 
TALLEY Close. 
Howell considers the disk.  If Talley has the second disk in his pocket, Howell could just shoot him.  But Howell can't be sure -- 
HOWELL I have to see if it's real. 
Howell brings the disk to a lap top computer set up in the corner.  He inserts the disk, and waits for it to read.  He's satisfied with what he sees -- 
HOWELL (CONT'D) All right.  Now the second one. 
TALLEY First my girls.  I get my girls, you get the other disk. 
Howell stares at Talley again, then picks up his phone -- 
HOWELL (into the phone) Bring them.  Stop the car outside the room, but don't get out. 
