"Hudson Hawk", by Steven E. de Souza, revised by Daniel Waters 
HUDSON HAWK 
Screenplay by 
Steven E. de Souza 
Revisions by 
Dan Waters 
Based on an original idea by Bruce Willis & Robert Kraft 
A Silver Pictures/Flying Heart Films      June 14, 1990 Production 
NOTE: THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS AND SOME "SCENE OMITTED" SLUGS. THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FOR THIS SOFT COPY. 
FADE IN: 
EXT. VINCI COUNTRYSIDE - RENAISSANCE - DAY 
Beneath a jawdroppingly storybook castle, a small Renaissance Fair with florid awnings, demented ACROBATS and roaring puppets is unfolding. 
RUSTIC FARMERS and their families rumble with enjoyment at the Sabbath afternoon entertainment. 
Encircled by children, A JUGGLER WITH AN UNFORGETTABLY ETCHED FACE elegantly plucks the red balls from a pouch on his mule.  As he begins to juggle, a LOUD EXPLOSION is heard, causing him to ungracefully drop his balls and collapse in a heap. 
Everyone at the fair, including the puppets, looks up. 
UNFORGETTABLE JUGGLER Leonardo, che pazzo. 
The juggler shakes his fist up to a swish pan that swings up toward a smoking window of the awesome castle... 
INT. ROOM OF THE GOLD MACHINE 
where the charismatic LEONARDO DA VINCI laughs down at him.  Da Vinci wears a pair of very early, very cool sun- glasses with his trademark beard. 
He turns and loses his smile, something extraordinary reflecting off his glasses.  Removing his shades, Da Vinci moves to the Something, a gloriously incredible machine.  The opening CREDITS REVEAL its dazzling idio- syncrasies. 
TWO COUGHING APPRENTICES haplessly try to disperse smoke from the still billowing, mysteriously spectacular Machine.  Mirrors attached to parts of it reflect beams of light which cut through the smoke like a Renaissance laser show. 
DA VINCI (silencing authority) Basta vapore. 
The apprentice throws a lever.  A shunt near the furnace turns.  Steam escapes upwards.  The machine immediately slows down.  Da Vinci oh-so-gently coughs and moves for- ward with tongs. 
A LITTLE TROUGH - IN THE MACHINE'S INNARDS 
comes to a trembling, mystical halt.  Right behind this trough is a CONPLEX POLYHEDRON CRYSTAL as intricately modulated as any Rubik stocking stuffer, but much more dazzling in beauty.  It gleams like a jewel in the yellow glow which pours from a PLEASANTLY GRINNING DEMONHEAD into a trough--a glow of heat--and something more than heat. 
The tongs enter the frame. 
Da Vinci brings the object closer to his face.  A murmur goes up from the awestruck apprentices as the Master peers at the smoking yellow bar. 
APPRENTICE TWO Maestro, che meraviglia! 
APPRENTICE THREE Lei e' proprio fantastico! 
Da Vinci's pride goes dead as the implications hit. 
DA VINCI Lasciatemi, solo.  Solo! 
The apprentices scurry out.  Mind reeling, Da Vinci turns his back to the viewer, before a wall of frescoes. 
DA VINCI L'ho fatto. 
Spinning back around, using the edge of his cloak, Da Vinci pulls out the large gleaming crystal with a pop. 
INT. DA VINCI'S WORKSHOP 
With an accompanying blast of smoke, Da Vinci bursts through some double doors into his workshop, sadly reflecting upon the crystal in one hand and the tonged bar in the other. 
His workshop is a spendiferously enigmatic blend of laboratory and studio; On a table in the foreground is a fresh clay equestrian statue; a large VOLUME of sketches, the inkwell nearby; a MODEL of what looks like a HELICOPTER; Da Vinci flings the tonged bar on the table among these goodies. 
GATES' TABLE 
Gates pillages a plate of spaghetti and meatballs with terrifying precision.  Hawk tosses the badge onto the food.  Gates eats around it. 
GATES Why do you show your parole officer such disrespect? Especially after I got you such a nice job. 
HAWK What job? 
Gates pulls up the black canvas bag and puts it on the table. 
GATES The auction house, asshole.  One night's work and you're free like no ex-con's ever been.  No checking in with a shrink, no community service teaching retards how to play air hockey. It's a great deal, I can't lie. 
HAWK The only thing you can't do is get sex for free.  I know I was in prison for like basically the 80's, but, call me daffy, aren't you supposed to stop me from committing crimes.  You know, Book-em-Dano, Call-for-backup, Give-a-Hoot-Don't-Pollute. 
Gates thunders out of his chair and moves around to sneer down at Hawk.  Behind Gates, on the T.V. screens, are analogous images of DISGUSTING ANIMALS AND MONSTERS. 
GATES You wouldn't be out if it wasn't for me!  I did dog and pony for you!  You think they would have let you out after what you did, you told the board members they looked like the Three Stooges... 
HAWK How was I supposed to know they were women?  Besides one of them was bald and kept saying "Soitinly." 
Gates simmers into his seat with a self-control smile. 
GATES Remember that guy in the cell next to you who hung himself? 
HAWK Yes. 
GATES Remember that shoe you lost... 
HAWK Uh, yeah.  Cut to the chase. 
Gates pulls up a shoe and puts it on the table. 
GATES One phone call and your shoe will become a piece of evidence and that suicide'll become a murder. 
Hawk bobs under the table and up. 
HAWK What else do you got under there ... I don't want to be rude, but this is all pretty lame. 
GATES That's the beauty.  It's bullshit, but I can make it stick because I'm a good guy parole officer and you re a bad guy who's about to find out that there's a thin line between ex-con and escape con. 
Alex suddenly approaches the table. 
ALEX How is everything tonight, sir? 
GATES Beat it, Alex.  You're a dinosaur. 
HAWK Alex, did you know this ape was going to be here... 
ALEX Sure.  That's why his meatballs are made out of marinated Chuck Wagon. 
GATES (mouthful) You're full of shit. 
As Alex speaks, an eating dog is on the screens. 
ALEX No, man, actually you are.  Just add water and it makes its own gravy.  Keeps your teeth healthy and your coat shiny. 
Gates grabs the shoes and races off, gagging.  Hawk gets up to laugh next to Alex.  Their laughter dies as they turn to look at the black canvas bag left on the table between them. 
INT. BACK ROOM--DAWN 
Hawk stares mournfully at a black and white photo of a monkey-sized chalk-outline on a city street.  Behind him, Alex pulls out blueprints from the black bag.  Sinatra's "Witchcraft" blares on the radio.... 
ALEX Hmmmm..... 
HAWK Yo Pandora, quit hummm-ing... look at this. 
Hawk is rummaging through stockpiled remnants of an old, "true" bar.  Round lamps, tacky mirrors, pictures of Hawk and the Regs at the bar.  Managing a weary smile, Hawk lifts a ship steering wheel, while Alex puts on a pair of granny classes and pulls out blueprints. 
HAWK It's Captain Bob's steering wheel! Remember when the Captain..... 
ALEX Hmmm, nasty little safe on the 7th. 
Hawk nervously picks up a Rubik's Cube and holds it behind his back.  He brings it back around, completed. Sighing, Hawk drops the cube and rubs his scalp.  Alex starts rubbing his stomach.  They pace in pre-job syncopation and speak rapid-fire. 
Two Security Guards sit before a console of seven security screens still chuckling over an unheard joke. Wires coming out of the security console run across the floor and through the wall into... 
INT. THE POWER ROOM 
The wires go up to a row of seven humming, RECORD button flashing V.C.R.s.  Hawk and Alex stand before them, sharing a cig. 
ALEX They record everything their video surveillance takes in... 
HAWK Yes, master-thief, I can see that. You said something about a plan... 
Alex presses the REWIND buttons on the V.C.R.'s. 
ALEX Am I boring you, smartass?  Watch. A little rewind and re-wire action and the Guards are going to be watching a rerun and miss out on our exciting episode. 
Alex pulls from a nearby shelf six tapes marked MONDAY. 
INT. SEVENTH FLOOR AUCTION AUDITORIUM--NIGHT 
Moving beneath a video camera and a dazzling Set of Hanging Horse Mobiles, a Heavyset guard, BIG STAN, moseys through the dimly lit main auction house auditorium.  The auditorium chairs are strewn out in the middle beside a turbo Floor Washer. 
Next to a painting of Happy Children Riding Horses at the back of the auditorium stage, Big Stan hefts himself upon a comparatively TINY BLUE CHAIR and begins to tip back and snooze. 
INT. GUARDS' STATION 
The Security Guards look to the seventh floor screen to see an unfolding shot of Big Stan mid-snooze. 
SECURITY GUARD ONE Check out Big Stan... (walkie-talkie) Big Stan! 
THE AUCTION AUDITORIUM 
Startled by his walkie-talkie, Big Stan falls back on the little chair, crunching it to the ground. 
THE FIRST FLOOR 
The laughing security guards see the crunch. 
INT. THE POWER ROOM 
Alex puts the last of the Monday tapes into a V.C.R. 
ALEX You got about five minutes and change. 
HAWK 5:32.  "Swinging on a Star." 
ALEX You know they invented something while you were inside.  Called a watch. 
A freight elevator pings.  Hawk opens it up as the music of "Swinging on the Star" kicks in on the soundtrack. 
HAWK "A mule is an animal with long funny ears." 
ALEX "He kicks up at anything he hears. 
Hawk crams himself into the freight elevator with his Glad bag.  Strenuously upbeat Ray Conniffesque singers continue to sing the song, orchestrally accompanied, when Hawk isn't. 
INT. THE FREIGHT ELEVATOR 
Hawk takes over the song, sardined in the elevator. 
HAWK "Or would you rather swing on a star, carry moonbeams home in a jar." 
POWER ROOM 
Alex goes up to a Circuit Box and pulls down two large Switches.  The soundtrack singers continue to warble. 
THE GUARDS' STATION 
The lights of the floor wobble and die.  The console screens blink off.  The Security Guards stop laughing. 
SECURITY GUARD TWO Hell-o.  Check the Power room, bud... 
Security Guard One harrumphs into a standing position... 
POWER ROOM 
HAWK "And all the monkeys aren't in the zoo." 
ALEX (V.O.) "Every day you meet quite a few." 
Alex gives Hawk a congratulatory pat. 
HAWK AND ALEX "So you see it's all up to you. You can be better than you are. You could be swinging on a star." 
THE AUCTION ROOM 
BIG STAN reconnects the wires of the seventh V.C.R. 
THE GUARDS' STATION 
Suddenly, on the seventh screen, the image and voices of Hawk and Alex in-process comes on. 
SECURITY GUARD ONE Shit, let's roll! 
THE AUCTION AUDITORIUM 
Hawk puts the painting back up, but stops to stare at the playful children. 
ALEX The song's over!  Come on! "You could be swinging on a star." 
HAWK What am I doing here?  There are so many things I wanna do that aren't this.  Paint a lighthouse. Kiss a woman in Italy. 
ALEX (more frantically) "You could be swinging on a star." 
HAWK Paint a woman in a lighthou--I don't want to steal a horse. Life is... 
Hawk's soliloquy is cut short as Security Guards One and Two crash into the auction auditorium. 
ALEX (DEADPAN) "You could be swinging on a star." You couldn't have waited to see a psychiatrist.  No, you had... 
Alex whips his chair at the floor washer, tipping it forward and causing its electrical cord to pull up and trip the Guards into a bellyflop. 
Hawk bolts right at the bustling up guards and locks them into Alex's thumbcuffs.  He then limbos under their connected arms and springs over the outstretched washer cord.  The Security Guards clumsily turn and re-trip themselves. 
HAWK Let's go down the freight elevator. 
Big Stan suddenly unhatches from the freight elevator. 
ALEX Keep those ideas coming. 
Hawk and Alex run toward an office located at the right wall.  They both do a Gene-Kellyesque-chair-tip-over before simultaneously bashing through the office door. 
INT. DARKENED AUCTION AUDITORIUM OFFICE 
Hawk and Alex stop in the office to painfully laugh and rub their funny bones.  Alex stops laughing. 
ALEX I'm not as unpleasantly plump as that Guard am I. 
Big Stan fires off a warning shot.  Hawk and Alex quickly tear up a window. 
Moving out on to a ledge, Hawk and Alex look down to the huge auction house awning and trade gulps. 
Big Stan wobbles into the mouth of the office door. 
HAWK AND ALEX I got a bad feeling.... 
HAWK I can't even swim. 
ALEX Hell, the fall'll probably kill ya... 
Big Stan raises his gun. 
Hawk and Alex jump and AAAGH down the face of the building.... 
Closer and closer to the awning.... 
The viewer focuses upon Hawk as he free-falls...... 
CUT TO: 
ALFRED Ta ta, Hudson Hawk. 
HAWK (breathless) Too-do-loo, babe. 
INT. ALEX'S RESTAURANT--DAWN 
Hawk bursts into the bar.  Alex sits on a stool, reading the paper. 
ALEX Did I miss anything? 
HAWK Oh, not much.  Gates just had his tonsils taken out.  The hard way. 
ALEX Geez, Gates was killed.  Who do we send the thank you note to? 
Hawk does a combat jump over the bar and begins to fiddle with the cappuccino machine. 
HAWK The Butler did it.  Guy was a cross between Alistair Cook and a Cuisinart. Dude took Mr. Ed and humptied dumptied it over Gates's head.  He said it was made by, get this, Leonardo.. 
ALEX (professorial) Ah yes, a rare Renaissance piece. Da Vinci's "Sforza," an equestrian model of a never executed statue. I consider it to be the prize of tonight's auction of objets d'equestrian.  Horse things. 
The cappuccino machine sparks.  A perplexed Hawk takes a couple extra seconds to back off. 
HAWK Okay, you got me, Mr. PBS. 
ALEX (holding up newspaper) Morning edition.  Seems two thieves "attempted" to steal it last night, but thanks to three "courageous" guards, it will be ready for tonight. 
HAWK "Attempted."  At-tempt-ted!  I'm not happy about having to steal that horse, but I do have my pride.  Face it, when it comes to burglary, and sex, I.... 
Hawk takes the newspaper.  There is a picture of the Three Security Guards in a cheery pose behind the "Sforza."  Hawk squints to see that Security Guards One and Two are still wearing the thumbcuffs. 
HAWK Boing.  Uh, this I don t understand... 
ALEX Why try? 
HAWK (hurdling the bar) Because I'm tired of not understanding things.  Cops, Mafia, and butlers forcing me to bust my ass to steal something, which it turns out I really didn't steal--it's fucked up. 
ALEX (pulling back newspaper) You re not thinking of going to... 
HAWK Alex, my man, it's time to play a little offense.  Where's your tux? 
INT. RUTHERFORD'S AUCTION HOUSE--NIGHT 
Dressed in a not-quite-fitting but suave tuxedo, Hawk enters the now well-lit auction house auditorium (chairs all set out).  Bored WORKMEN in coveralls lug equestrian items on to a podium from the familiar freight elevator. 
ECCENTRIC BALD AUCTIONEER ...fan-taas-tic example of Florentine marble... Who will start at 160,000...160,000......180,000. 
Someone raises their paddle as Hawk passes beneath the hanging horses and finds an aisle seat near the stage. Hawk scans everyone in the room before coming to the one seated next to him, AN ENCHANTINGLY BEAUTIFUL WOMAN. 
HAWK All these years of attending auctions, I still get goosebumps.  The paintings, the sculptures....the things that aren't really paintings or sculptures... 
THE WOMAN .... the pretentious vultures who don't even look up from their calculators to see what they're buying.  Now that gives me goosebumps.  Auctions are disgusting. 
HAWK I couldn't agree more.  Savages. 
The Woman laughs at his gear switch then catches herself. 
ECCENTRIC BALD AUCTIONEER Lot Fifteen, an equestrian sconce attributed to the Cellini school.. 
AUCTION ENTRANCE 
Big Stan, the hefty guard from the heist, enters the area wearing a blue ribbon. 
AUCTION AREA 
Big Stan is walking in back of the seated bidders:  An oblivious Hawk in the foreground starts to scan VARIED BIDDER-TYPES, raising their paddles to babble out dollar figures; a GAUDY ROCK STAR and his GLOOMY-CHIC ENTOURAGE, A KING FAROUK-TYPE with a BORED TEENAGE AMERICAN HOOKER, and a scary NORDIC PRINCESS in a monocle and a tiara. 
THREE STANDING ASSISTANTS frantically man a table of phones set up down before the stage.  One raises his arm. 
ECCENTRIC BALD AUCTIONEER Sold!  To the caller from Newfoundland. 
A STYLISH FEMALE ASSISTANT takes out an impressive replica of the "Sforza" from the safe behind the podium and brings it to the Auctioneer.  The crowd a-a-hs... Hawk laughs and shakes his head. 
ECCENTRIC BALD AUTIONEER And finally, Lot number 17, thought to be lost in the war, and again last night, the Da Vinci "Sforza," the jewel of the sale.  Fan-taas-tic... 
HAWK But I'm not the type of guy to hold a grudge. 
KAPLAN I used you as a diversion.  while you were getting captured upstairs, I was shredding documents in the basement.  Deep down, I guess I was just jealous.  You were one incredible thief... 
HAWK To what do I owe the dishonor of a reunion, you centrally intelligent scumsicle. 
As Kaplan converses, Snickers and Butterfinger bring out a mammoth empty suitcase and open it behind Hawk. 
KAPLAN I Want to make things up to you. That's why I got you this gig, doll.  Hawk, my name's George Kaplan and to quote the late, great Karen Carpenter, "We've only just begun." 
HAWK Three minutes, twenty-three seconds.  If you think I'm doing another... 
KAPLAN Hush.  My employer wants a meeting. 
HAWK Employer?  The president? 
KAPLAN No, somebody powerful.  Oh.  Look. what's that up there? 
HAWK I'm supposed to fall for that? 
KAPLAN Shucks.  Guess not. 
Kaplan savagely point-blank punches Hawk in the face, knocking him out cold and into the mammoth suitcase. Snickers slams it shut revealing a KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL sticker. 
INT. MYSTERIOUS BARE ROOM--DAY 
Hawk slowly awakens on an exotic couch.  He has been put in an aggressively fashionable Italian outfit.  He eyes and touches his new duds with complete bafflement.  He then stumbles into a standing position to, mouth gaping, take in a wondrous 360 degree view of Rome, Italy as "O Solo Mio" blares on the soundtrack. 
HAWK No.  Way. 
Hawk's spinning view and the music on the soundtrack slam to a halt as he zeroes in on the sight of Scary Butler Alfred elegantly reaching the top of the staircase. 
ALFRED Welcome to Rome, sir. 
HAWK Yes way. 
EXT. OUTSIDE INTERESTING BUILDING--DAY 
Alfred opens the back door of an omnipotent, Mayflower- logoed LIMOUSINE.  The car moves off as Hawk slides in... 
INT. THE BACK SEAT OF THE MAX-TECH LIMOUSINE 
facing Darwin Mayflower who is blustering into the cellular. 
While he talks, Darwin shakes Hawk's bewildered hand, then holding up one finger in a "be with you in a sec" facial move. 
DARWIN For those kind of wages, I could have built the factory in America! They're Vietnamese, can't we just give them more Bart Simpson shirts? I hear depressing news like this and I want to commit genocide! (slamming phone) Alfred, hold my calls.  So, Hawk! The Hawkster!  What do you think of the vehicle? 
HAWK You could host American Bandstand in here.  Why did you duck at the auction, asshole? 
DARWIN Because I didn't want to get hurt, taterhead. 
A FAX MACHINE comes to life as Darwin babbles. 
DARWIN What can I tell you, I'm the villain.  Initially it was a priority to keep a lot of buffers between you and me, but since most of them are dead now, I thought what the heck.  Hawk, you come highly recommended.  I would have done some things differently at the auction house, but hey, I want to be in business with you. 
Darwin scans the Fax message with annoyance, and then shoves it into a violent paper shredder. 
OUTSIDE THE LIMO SHREDDER 
Shredded paper litters out of a vent on the outside door. 
INSIDE THE LIMOUSINE 
A simmering Hawk tries to explode but the phone rings. 
HAWK My life is not some deal.  I... 
ALFRED (O.S.) It's Boston, Mr. Mayflower. 
DARWIN I'm sorry, I have to take this. Those are valid points though... 
Darwin picks up the phone and goes Mr. Hyde, while giving Hawk "Can you believe this guy"-type gestures. 
HAWK You wouldn't risk the dime to call the police.  You have no proof. 
DARWIN Ah, the magic word... 
Alfred plants a slide machine on the table and Darwin starts clicking gorgeous images of Hawk and Alex robbing the auction house, on a bare wall. 
The Board members gush.  The Elderly Woman gives a thumbs-up. 
DARWIN It's veja du, Hawkhead.  Something you wish never happened.  We shot the entire operation with hidden cameras behind the hidden cameras. Hired the guy who did the last Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue. Excellent work... whoops, damn Fotomat assholes... 
A slide hits the wall of himself and Minerva kneeling in Big Baby clothes with Alfred snarling over them, decked out in leather.  He clicks ahead... 
Hawk looks away and sees that the Board members have an annual Report-type booklet in front of them that reads-- THE DA VINCI/ALCHEMY PROJECT. 
Minerva leans over in front of him. 
MINERVA Tomorrow, you're going to hit a church. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. A MASSIVE WIDE SHOT OF ST. PETER'S--DAY 
The Vatican stands in its glory, mobbed by HUNDREDS OF LOCALS AND SIGHTSEERS.  The viewer's viewpoint zeroes in on the Mayflower limousine circling around it. 
INT. THE LIMOUSINE 
Hawk looks out from the back seat of the limousine in stylish Italian sunglasses. 
HAWK I'm robbing the Vatican.  The nuns at St. Agnes predicted that I'd end up doing this... 
Two identical Twin Flunkies sit across from him, grinning stupidly.  Hawk pushes up his sunglasses with his middle finger. 
INT. VATICANESQUE MAP ROOM 
Mentally casing the joint, Hawk gets some distance between him and the flunkies as he enters into a room that has a glorious, ancient Map of the World Mural. 
INT. ANOTHER VATICAN ROOM 
Hawk makes a scribble in a notepad before coming to a Vatican guard, standing before a painting of a Pope performing a Coronation. 
HAWK (half-hearted) Excuse me, I'm being blackmailed into robbing the Vatican by a psychotic American corporation along with a CIA... 
VATICAN GUARD "You're being".....uh, I don't, uh... 
A jaded Hawk laughs and pats the cop on the back. 
HAWK Forget it, man.  Go tackle a jaywalker. 
INT./EXT. CIRCULAR OPEN AIR HALLWAY 
Hawk comes out onto a circular open-air hallway.  He scans up to some rooftops and makes a note...until he sees a line of International Phone Boothettes.  Checking for Flunkies, he rips one up. 
HAWK Operator, I want to make a collect call to Alex Messina, New York.... 
The Flunkies drift into view.  Hawk hangs up and seethes off. 
INT. HALLWAY LEADING TO CODEX ROOM 
Hawk saunters down a long resplendent hallway toward a room at the end bustling with excitement.  Coming to the mouth of the room, he looks to two gold framed mirrors on either side of the opening, rubs his head, and scribbles. 
INSIDE THE CODEX ROOM 
Hawk takes in the majestic beauty, and practical details, of the room--windows, statues, a Massive Ornate Lighting Fixture--as he moves down one of the twin winding stair- cases leading to a path of people behind velvet ropes and the object of their gaze... 
THE DA VINCI CODEX 
--an old book enclosed in a glass case, propped open to the familiar BEAUTIFUL DRAWING of a MAN inside a CIRCLE. 
The case is located between two informational tablets enclosed in glass columns.  Enter Holy Da Vinci theme. 
ANNA (V.O.) But it is his gift as an inventor who drew together science and art that is most incredible. 
Hawk brightens to the return of Anna, carrying a portfolio bag, striding down the stairs with a group of INVESTORS AND FAMILIES.  She brightens back, giving him a quick verbal breath and a hand squeeze. 
ANNA I'll bring my entire repertoire... 
The Two Flunkies stumble into the station, looking around.  Anna and Hawk crouch down. 
HAWK And I'll bring my entourage... 
ANNA Secret passageways don't mean as much as they used to.  There's a place two blocks east of here. Enzo's.  Say 10:30. 
HAWK Said. 
Hawk and Anna peck each other with a smile.  He crawls out an exit door.  As he leaves, Anna's smile disappears. She pulls out a rosary and gives herself a self-scolding bang on the head.  She then darts to a large crucifix and looks up. 
ANNA Father, it's obvious.  He's up to something. 
Suddenly a speaker in Jesus's mouth gently crackles. 
JESUS (Italian) Report downstairs at once. 
ANNA Yes, sir. 
INT. CATACOMBLIKE AREA 
A CARDINAL paces in an enigmatic Vatican area.  Anna clacks up to him. 
CARDINAL Did he mention the Mayflowers? 
ANNA No, your Eminence.  I think he's going to steal the Codex, as early as next week. 
CARDINAL Attempt, you mean.  The vanity of this man, Hudson Hawk.  The Vatican has foiled the advances of Pirates and Terrorists.  We will not lie down for some schmuck from New Jersey.  Must you flirt with him so realistically? 
ANNA That's the best kind.  A wise woman once said "Polite conversation is rarely either." 
CARDINAL (chuckling) Let me be the one to quote Scripture.  ....As an agent of our organization, you are put in awkward situations.  Just remember, Hudson Hawk is an evil, evil man. 
ANNA (unconvinced) Yeah.  The big E. 
EXT. NAVONA PIAZZA--DAY 
The evil Hawk clumsily strides around a fountain, looking off in all directions, soft-shoes past some sedate painters and swings into... 
INT. A BIG QUIRKY PHONE BOOTH 
Hawk grabs up the phone and dials.... 
HAWK Hello, operator.  I'd like to make a collect call to New York number... 
The Mayflower limousine creeps to the edge of the piazza, behind an oblivious Hawk. 
HAWK Thank you, operator, thank you. 
Hawk turns, putting a finger in his ear.  Seeing the limo, he FREAKS and balls himself into a corner. 
HAWK Come on, Alex, pick up, you Reindeer goat cheese-eating motherfucker. 
INT. ALEX'S RESTAURANT--NIGHT 
It is late night in New York.  A phone rings atop the bar of Alex's restaurant with no one in sight. 
INT. PIAZZA--DAY 
Hawk pokes his head to see a Darwin and Minerva (holding Bunny) emerge from the limousine.  As he turns his con- centration back to the phone, ALEX HIMSELF flows out from a building to cheerfully speak with Darwin and Minerva and get licked by Bunny, before they all pile into the limo. 
HAWK A-lex, A-lex, come on Alex. 
Hawk slams down the phone and turns to see the limousine pull off. 
Hawk angrily bursts from the door and is painfully CLOTHESLINED by agent Butterfinger, who is dressed as a mailman. 
Crumpled on the ground, Hawk kicks out with his foot, into Butterfinger's stomach, doubling him. Hawk then grabs him by the head and rams into the glass of the booth. 
Hawk rotates off for an escape...but the rest of the CIA crew cuts him off holding barely concealed guns; Snickers dressed as a maitre 'd, Almond Joy as a Bermuda tourist, and Kaplan in his usual emsemble.  Kit Kat is dressed exactly like Hawk, right down to a bloody lip. Hawk gives him a double take. 
KAPLAN Hawk, Hawk, Hawk.  Enjoying Italy?  I always had a soft spot for Rome.  Did my first barehanded strangulation here.  Communist politician. 
INT. VATICAN LIBRARY HALLWAY--NIGHT 
A BURLY GUARD thoughtfully stares at a painting, fingers propping his chin like an critic then continues ambling on. 
THE CODEX ROOM 
Rubbing his head, Hawk gives an excited smile as the glass cracks of the rectangular case loosen.  Hawk pulls out a pocket fisherman.... 
The viewer's viewpoint moves upward to reveal, through the mouth of the room, the Burly Guard is coming down the hall. 
OUTSIDE THE CODEX ROOM 
Burly Guard approaches the outskirts of the Codex room. He combs his hair into the piece of wall in the now empty mirror-frame then REALIZES. 
Muttering Italian into his walkie-talkie, Burly Guard rushes into the room and looks down to the sensor deflecting mirrors. 
He passes a statue, behind which, Hawk is revealed to be standing. 
Burly Guard approaches the Codex and sees the dripping acid.  He also notices a fishing hook attached to the binding of the Codex.  The fishing wire leads out of the glass case.  The Guard reaches to touch it when suddenly the wire is pulled tightly upward by a moving-out-from-behind-the-statue Hawk. 
The Codex FLIES off its perch, setting off the ALARM and sending the bizarre cage/lamp CRASHING DOWN and AROUND the hapless Burly Guard.  The green gas commences its noxious billowing as the Codex swooshes into Hawk's hands.  He then hurls a softball, smashing a window on the other side of the room. 
The familiar Vatican Guard and a Guard Three barrel down into the mouth of the codex room.  Only one Gas Mask drops from the doorway.  The Vatican Guard pulls it on and gives a "That's Life" shrug of shoulders to the fainting Guard three. 
Hawk puts on the missing gas mask and launches a grapple around the ceiling cord of the dropped Ornate Lighting Fixture.  Hawk then Tarzans from one staircase to another.  He then ungrapples and heads toward the shattered window. 
The Vatican Guard waits a stunned moment before giving chase. 
EXT. THE ROOF 
Hawk flings off his gas mask and begins a classical skipping-across-the-rooftop jaunt.  Suddenly a brick on the slightly slanted roof gives way and Hawk FALLS. His canvas bag goes skipping down across the roof, landing against the antennae. 
INT. THE POPE'S BEDROOM 
A T.V. showing Mr. Ed. speaking to Wilbur in Italian goes fuzzy.  THE POPE, wearing his famous hat and a Notre Dame bathrobe angrily bangs on it. 
EXT. THE ROOF 
Hawk harvests his grapple on the level part of the roof and slides down toward the dangling-off-the-antennae bag. 
The Vatican Guard pops out of the window and fires a warning shot. 
Hawk stretches to the bag.  His fingers touch as the Guard continues to bound forward. 
HAWK Please God, Please God.......let the guard shoot me. 
Hawk pulls up the bag and turns himself to see Vatican Guard hovering over him on the roof. 
VATICAN GUARD The worm's on the other foot, yankee noodle candy. 
Hawk sees the Vatican Guard's foot move toward the grapple.  Hawk ferociously tugs, ripping the Guard off-balance and knocking down a side of the roof. 
EXT. TOP OF A NEARBY WALL 
Hawk dashes atop a nearby wall and hurls his grapple across a road around a tree branch.  Hawk ties the end of grapple line, tosses on a friction belt, takes a breath and JUMPS OFF THE WALL.  The viewer follows him on his breathtaking ride. 
The brused Vatican Guard flops back atop the roof.  He gets off a wild shot before crumpling back down. 
HAWK 
is alnost to the other side when the Guard's bullet hits the friction belt.  Hawk drops with a wild scream... and lands with a painful straddle atop a street lamppost. His eyes bug out with the thought of a life without children.  He slowly spins off the lamppost and sails down upon... 
EXT. A BUS 
and the comfortable luggage housed on top of it.  Hawk tries to maintain his balance upon the wobbling baggage, but the bus makes a quick turn and Hawk goes flying off... 
EXT. RIGHT INTO A CAFE CHAIR--NIGHT 
Panting and discombobulated, Hawk looks across the table to the female hands holding open a menu.  The menu comes down.  It is Anna.  Hawk unpretzels and laps his canvas bag. 
ANNA Oh Hudson, I was worried you weren't going to drop by.... 
HAWK I never break a date.  Scout's honor. 
Their heads fuse for a semi-classic screen kiss until THE CRUCIFIX LIGHTS UP AND BEGINS SHOUTING IN ITALIAN. 
HAWK Catholic girls are scary... 
ANNA Somebody robbed the Vatican. 
HAWK Oh.  No. 
Anna slides on her shoes and makes a hasty retreat. She bumps into the canvas bag.  The Codex slides out. They both catch it in mid-air.  Anna's eyes pop.  She wrenches the Codex away and kicks.  Hawk pulls her into a compassionate back-against-his-stomach hug.  The Codex falls to the floor unharmed. 
HAWK It's not what you think.  Okay, maybe it is.... 
ANNA You really went and did it.  With one day, not even a day, of planning, you did it.  Nobody does it better, Hudson.  You started the week stealing the Sforza and you ended it swiping the Codex. 
HAWK Wha-- 
ANNA What are your plans for the weekend?  Hoisting away the Colosseum?  Tell me, did the devil make you do it or did Darwin and Minerva Mayflower? 
EXT. A CAR OUTSIDE OF ANNA'S PLACE--NIGHT 
Crammed together in the front seat, Snickers, Almond Joy, and Butterfinger are watching the shadows of Hawk and Anna up in the window.  Snickers snaps a cartridge into a gun while Butterfinger attacks a goo-ey pastry. 
SNICKERS What's going on in there? 
BUTTERFINGER Do you want me to rape them? (throwing pastry down) Dunkin does it better. 
SNICKERS Just read, Butterfinger. 
Butterfinger pulls up the book on Da Vinci that Anna wrote and starts reading like a schoolboy. 
BUTTERFINGER "Da Vinci had fears about his more dangerous designs, so he created a shorthand code in reverse script..." 
ALMOND JOY To yourself!.....What are they doing?  In twenty seconds, we go in. 
INT. ANNA'S PLACE 
Foam shoots out over the coffee.  Hawk smiles down at it as Anna works a cappuccino machine. 
ANNA For two years, I've been tracking the Mayflowers' peculiar interest in three Da Vinci pieces.  Their Sforza replica was as fake as the "gas leak" that supposedly destroyed it. 
HAWK Does everyone in the world know more than me?  Jesus, I'm just some guy who happens to be good at swiping stuff.....Lifted a piece of licorice when I was one and a half.  Who knew it would lead... They even got the CIA involved! 
ANNA The C.I. what?  God, no... 
HAWK (raising his cup) Ooh, I guess I do know something Here's looking at you, kid... 
THE CAR OUTSIDE 
The agents burst from the car, guns raised. 
ALMOND JOY Now. 
ANNA'S HOUSE 
Hawk sips the cappuccino.  His face immediately contracts. 
HAWK This doesn't taste like cappuccino. 
ANNA Oh, I must have put too much ethyl-chloride in it. 
Anna throws a pillow on the ground and holds out her hand.  Hawk collapses.  His coffee cup lands perfectly in Anna's outstretched hand and his head lands perfectly on the pillow. 
The candy bars bash the door open, guns raised. 
ANNA Why didn't you tell me at the restaurant that he had hit the Vatican tonight.  My people will not be happy.  I want to see Kaplan. 
ALMOND JOY That's not overly possible.  He... 
BUTTERFINGER But guys, remember, he's in the castle at Vinci.... 
Snickers and Almond Joy grimace into fake smiles. 
EXT. THE CASTLE--NIGHT 
MINERVA Like a "cat", one could say. 
HAWK Shucks, I'll just take it back. 
Hawk reaches for the Codex.  Kaplan pulls it over to Darwin, who pulls up his goggles and fondles the ancient binding.  Taking a knife from Kaplan, he begins to slit it open. 
MINERVA (bouncing up) No, let me! 
DARWIN (pout) I don't care. 
Hawk looks away to the billowing sheets and the strange machine parts behind them. 
Minerva slits the bindings and tugs out another geometri- cally perverted crystal. 
HAWK Another piece of the puzzle for the Da Vinci Alchemy project. 
Kaplan, Darwin, and Minerva look up to Hawk, then to each other, all start to speak, then all stop. 
This quandary is deferred by the entrance of the twin Flunkies. 
DARWIN Oh, you.  There's nothing more I hate than failure.  All you had to do was follow the Hawk, it's not like I said "Teach our nation's children how to read." 
Hawk uses the distraction to amble toward the sheets. 
DARWIN I guess we're just going to have to kill 'em... 
Shockingly swift, Minerva pulls a small gun from beneath her tennis dress and blasts a burning hole between each set of Flunky eyes, splattering them to the ground. 
DARWIN God Minerva, I was kidding. 
A SHOCKED HAWK 
quickly turns from the blithe carnage and pulls up a sheet.  He reveals the familiar Gold Machine Demonhead. 
THE MAYFLOWERS 
reverberate off each other with laughter.  Bloodstained, Kaplan and Almond Joy exchange an eye bulge.  Minerva's smile disappears as she sees Hawk by the sheets. 
MINERVA Get away from there, convict! 
HAWK Just browsing.  Don't touch me.... 
Snickers touches him.  Hawk smashes him in the jaw. Snickers rears back to reciprocate.... 
DARWIN Don't hurt him!  We need him for the final job! 
Snickers stops himself, snarling in frustration.  Hawk is suddenly the happiest man he's been in Italy. 
HAWK Oh weeeeelly, don't hurt me?  Even if I do this.... 
Hawk pulls Snickers' glasses off and stamps them. 
HAWK And this.... 
Hawk knees Butterfinger in the stomach. 
HAWK Surely this must offend.... 
Hawk body-block-dominoes Butterfinger and Snickers to the ground.  Kaplan and Almond Joy aim their guns. 
KAPLAN That's it! 
Playfully lifting his shirt, Hawk grabs Minerva and manually swivels her hips to the beat of his. 
HAWK Things are getting a little loose at the Da Vinci workshop tonight. "Put your left leg in, take your right foot out."  May I call you Minnie.... 
Hawk mambos to Alfred who rifles his blade up to Hawk's crotch.  Hawk stops dancing. 
DARWIN Come to think of it there is a part of your body that you won't need for your next job... 
HAWK Hey, guys, I've always wanted to sing like Franki Valli and the other seasons, but come on.... 
Alfred moves the blade a little upward.  Hawk a-a-ghs. 
DARWIN (casually goosing Alfred) Alchemy!  Is the business term of the 90's, my man!  Minerva read about it in an airline magazine about four years ago.  I dumped some lira into research... Shazam, we come across a diary by one of Da Vinci's apprentices detailing La Machine de Oro, the gold machine for those at home, and the rest is about to become history.  Money isn't everything, gold is.  Fuck blue chip stocks!  Fuck T-bills! Fuck Junk Bonds!  I got the real deal!  Money will always be paper but gold will always be gold! 
MINERVA Market crashes.  Bomb drops. Greenhouse effect affects.  We'll still be the richest, most powerful people in the world.  In 1992, Europe is coming together to become one business superpower.  It's one party we'd love to poop. 
DARWIN Well, that said, the last ingredient in the recipe is in, get this, you're gonna die, the Kremlin. 
HAWK Sure.  The Kremlin.  Makes sense. The Kremlin.  Why not?  Listen, this is all too Indiana Jones and the Lost City of King Tut for me, man.  Throw me in jail and go ahead, just try and throw Alex... 
MINERVA Jail, you asshole!  Our foot soldiers will blow your brains out!  Bunny, Ball-Ball! 
Minerva angrily throws the dog off her lap and whips a tennis ball into its mouth. 
DARWIN I'll torture you so slowly you'll think it's a career!  I'll kill your family, your friends, and the bitch you took to the Prom! 
HAWK You want an address on that last one? 
Bunny barks up at Hawk in anger. 
HAWK Bunny, not you too? 
MINERVA You've got a dilemma, tiger.  I think I know what's going to help you solve it. 
Alfred quickly latches on the state-of-the-art handcuffs and the blindfold.  The viewer's viewpoint stays on a writhing Hawk. 
HAWK I'll kill all you.  Even the old lady. 
Hawk kicks back on the table, "jump ropes" the cuffs, then picks the lock with his teeth.  Hawk rips off the blindfold to see that the entire room is empty except for Alex, standing at the other end, in an incongruous Italian leather coat. 
ALEX I hated cigarettes until I saw my first No Smoking sign.  Keep off the Grass?  Let's play Soccer. Only law I cared about was friendship.  Broke that one too, didn't I?  This Gates-Mario Brothers-CIA-Mayflower-Da Vinci thing seemed like a sweet deal. Visit foreign lands, take their treasures.  I don't know, I thought you'd get into it.  It's better than playing darts with M.B.A.'s at the bar.  I didn't know it was going to be like this.  Them using me to use you... I'm sorry, there's only one way out of this and it's gonna hurt me more than it's gonna hurt you. 
Alex pulls out a gun from his jacket and clicks it in. 
EXT. FAMILIAR PIAZZA--DAY 
The piazza from the fascist E.U.R. building are bustling with office workers laughing, smoking, and hustling. Darwin, Minerva and Kaplan are a solid troika in the center of the steps.  The other agents stroll in the periphery.... 
KAPLAN I just don't think it was a smoking hot idea to leave them up there alone. 
MINERVA Don't worry George, this is the reason we put the old diabetic guinea on the payroll to begin with.  To keep Hawk in line. They'll talk about "being buddies" and "chugging brewskis." 
DARWIN (raising glass) You gotta love male bonding. 
As Darwin slaps Kaplan on the back, behind them, Hawk and Alex come crashing out of the windowed doors of the building. 
KAPLAN You were saying... 
Moving to the edge of the stairs, Hawk and Alex, latter holding his gun, sprout up from their own debris and continue savagely brawling.  The wigging out passers- by give them space. 
HAWK You bastard!  You fucked my freedom for a lousy job! 
Alex trembles, going into a diabetic seizure.  He shakily raises his gun. 
ALEX Hawk... I'm so sorry... 
Hawk roars forward like a bull and helmets Alex.  They roll together down the massive staircase past Darwin, Minerva, and the CIA who react with "This can't be happening" catatonia. 
Two SHOTS go off as Hawk and Alex crash to the bottom of the staircase.  Hawk rises up in a daze to see Alex on the ground with two bloody bullet holes. 
HAWK No.....Alex!  Wake up, you can't go out like this. 
Hawk falls to his knees as Snickers hustles toward him. Suddenly, sirens are heard as a police van pulls up. Snickers stops. 
Four policemen blast from the back of the van.  One holds back the crowd.  One strenuously pulls Hawk into the van. The other two drag in Alex. 
The villains look to each other for non-existent guidance as the van pulls away. 
MINERVA Plan B, anyone... 
Using initiative, Snickers hops on a Vespa and roars off after them.  The van can be seen swerving off..... 
AROUND A CORNER 
where it bolts up into a much larger truck marked VATICAN SOUVENIRS.  TWO SEEMINGLY-INNOCENT-BYSTANDER PRIESTS break demeanor to flop up the wheel ramps, slam close the back of the truck, lock it shut, and continue on their solemn way. 
Wind blows through the shattered conference room window. Snickers is banging on his computer apparatus at the table with the Mayflowers and the other agents. 
KAPLAN We're all family now.  My team has done a lot of rougher things than steal the model of a helicopter. 
SNICKERS We're going to whack this place so fast we'll have time to shop for American imports. 
Darwin and Minerva politely smile and then turn away to each other with knowing looks.  The computer screen shows the familiar image of the Kremlin building that turns into a complex look at interiors the viewer will later see. 
ALMOND JOY Lucky for us, the Da Vinci is located in a wing of the Kremlin that they used to throw the Miss Ukraine pageant and stuff.  It'll have the least number of guards.... 
KAPLAN As for our plan of action, anybody'd be insane to go in from the ground floor... 
INT. A VAN-BUS--NIGHT 
A head-rubbing Hawk and a stomach rubbing Alex kneel on the floor of a moving van, over a barely legible drawing of what was so neatly delineated on the CIA computer. Both guys are dressed as priests and are chewing gum. 
ALEX We're going in from the ground floor. 
HAWK Geez, this Art Treasures Room looks like a burnt diaphragm. 
Hawk laughs and pops up into the passenger seat.  Anna is revealed to be driving in her habit.  Hawk gives her a kiss. 
HAWK Hey, don't take your disguise so seriously. 
ANNA Uh, yeah.  Guess I'm a wee bit nervous.  I'm sorry I could only score clergy passports. 
HAWK Fits my new image.  A thief for the masses.  This is one job I'm not going to feel guilty about enjoying.  Gum. 
Hawk, Alex, and Anna all spit out their gum into a bag Hawk holds. 
ALEX The security's actually not that severe. 
ANNA It doesn't have to be.  Everybody knows that if you mess with the Kremlin, you'll end up in a Siberian gulag eating your own fingernails. 
Hawk takes in some views of Moscow that remind one of Budapest. 
HAWK Shwoof, that makes me feel better. I can't believe this is the Iron Curtain.  All the guy at Airport customs wanted to know was "Who Shot J.R.?" 
ALEX You sound disappointed. 
HAWK Yeah, I mean, come on, going through the Iron Curtain is supposed to be crawling underneath barbed wire, it's supposed to be strangling a guard... 
THE VAN 
passes a textbook shot of the Kremlin in the distance. 
HAWK (V.O.) It's supposed to be parachuting in the moonlight.... 
EXT. THE TOP OF THE KREMLIN--NIGHT 
Kaplan, Snickers, Almond Joy, and Butterfinger slam down upon the roof of the Kremlin and discard their parachutes. 
Snickers opens up his computer screen, upon which is the image-map of the Kremlin with a flashing blue light at the top of the building and a flashing green one inside. 
SNICKERS We are the blue light.  The green light is where the Art Treasures room is. 
KAPLAN Let's go make a purple light. Where's Kit Kat? 
EXT. THE KREMLIN GROUNDS 
Dressed in cat burglar black and all chewing gum, Hawk, Alex, and Anna crawl across the Kremlin grounds.  They scope out a shabby Delivery Entrance. 
ALEX Delivery Entrance.  Low Security. 
ANNA Gum. 
All three spit out their gum into Hawk's bag. 
HAWK Count of three? 
ALEX Why not just go now? 
HAWK Okay. 
Kaplan is bugging out. 
KAPLAN Damnit, this isn't the plan! Blue light, green light, shit! Snickers, Kit Kat, A.J., scramble, see if you can find out anything. 
They thunder out.  Hawk, still in Butterfinger's oblivious clutches, shouts.. 
HAWK Can't you see the Mayflowers double-crossed you... 
KAPLAN They may be scum, but if I get the Da Vinci model back, then we'll be roasting weenies on the beach. 
HAWK I don't think you'll appreciate their choice of weenie. 
Kaplan raises his gun. 
THE BALLROOM BANQUET 
Darwin holds the Da Vinci model in one hand and raises a glass of vodka in the other. 
DARWIN You're helping us achieve a goal and in return, I'm giving you a key to the world's executive washroom.  Don't piss it away.... Skoal, amigos... 
ANNA (O.S.) Stop or I'll shoot. 
Minerva and some various Soviet VIPS spew their vodka to look up to Anna pointing a gun down at them from the second level.  She is shivering, shaking the gun. 
ANNA You people are immoral and narcissitic and I won't let you... 
In unison, the Soviet Soldiers surrounding the table begin machine gunning up at her.  She dives behind the railing. 
THE ART TREASURES ROOM 
Kaplan lowers his gun. 
KAPLAN I can't believe this.  I'm in fucking Russia, or do I have to say, the fucking Soviet Union and I'm shooting a non-Bolshevick. (raising back up his gun) I never thought I'd say "I'm just in this job for the money."  Sad. Any last immature quips? 
HAWK No. (a beat) But why do you let Butterfinger keep those blood stains on his shirt? 
Falling for the oldest trick in the book, Butterfinger looks down to his shirt. 
BUTTERFINGER What blood stains.... 
Hawk bounces up to savagely head-butt Butterfinger. Butterfinger slams back against a wall causing the Gold Sickle to fall down around his neck and knock him to the ground, pinning his head to the floor.  The Gold Hammer next trembles off the wall and crushes Butterfinger's skull. 
HAWK You want immature, how 'bout an egg fight... 
Hawk flings a Faberge egg, smashing the gun out of Kaplan's hand.  Hawk pelts a batch more at him.  Kaplan sloppily whips some eggs back.  Hawk finally smashes one in half and beans the jagged piece into Kaplan's eye.  He squeals to the ground, geysering blood. 
Hawk swoops down to a wheezing, breath controlling Alex. 
HAWK Alex, are you.... 
ALEX I can't believe you didn't notice. My weight.  I lost ten pounds in Rome 
HAWK You're a reed, man.  I gotta get Anna.  Hang in there... 
THE BALLROOM 
Bullets stop splintering around Anna at the railing as the soldiers fling out their empty cartridges to reload. 
Snickers, Almond Joy, and Kit Kat race out of the hall- way area into the ballroom area.  They stop at the sight of Anna.... 
ALMOND JOY Anna-bannana-fo-fanna, I guess I have to cut out your heart for real now.  It's not personal. 
Anna feebly raises her gun.  Almond Joy laughs and pulls out a knife. 
ALMOND JOY You won't shoot.  I read your dossier... Sister. 
The Soviet Soldiers snap in new cartridges as Almond Joy moves out from behind the pillar towards Anna.  The Soldiers blast away at this newly appearing figure. 
Almond Joy ruptures and vibrates in a Sonny Corleone ballet. 
ALMOND JOY I gotta get a new job... 
Snickers and Kit Kat militarily roll on either side of Anna as their partner wilts to the ground.  The men, Snickers with his mini-Uzi, Kit Kat with his cross- bow rifle, briefly leap up to fire down at the soldiers with some graphic success. 
HAWK Damnit, I hate this!  I'm a cat burglar!  Nobody said anything about this fight-to-the-death shit. 
SNICKERS Too bad. 
Snickers goes for a final thrust when suddenly one of the silencer time bombs suctions to his head. 
Hawk turns to see Alex, barely standing, at the top of the stairs, holding the strange rifle. 
Darwin and Minerva turn to this dramatic entrance.  They start to trot off... 
MINERVA I knew it!  I told you it was a fake. 
DARWIN That New-York-Italian-Father- made-twenty-bucks-a-week-son- of-a-bitch.  What was our bet?  A million? 
MINERVA Million five, lover... 
HAWK 
boots Snickers down the stairs.  Snickers somersaults up and frantically tries to pull off the bomb. 
Snickers wails to the soldiers, who have lowered their guns and are poking their heads out of the M to watch. 
SNICKERS Help me you Democratic Reform lovers!  Get a screwdriver, you Stupid Eskimoes!  Screw-dri-ver! Oh God, I always wanted to know how to play the harp, there just was so little time!  Rosebud! 
The soldiers high-tail it out.  Snickers plugs his ears. Nothing happens. 
SNICKERS Maybe it was just a.... 
Snickers blows up gloriously before the M. 
THE STAIRCASE 
Hawk bounds up to Alex, who puffs down onto the steps. 
ALEX Get 'em.  They went down the hallway. 
HAWK Let's just forget it, I mean... 
ALEX Get em.... 
Hawk rushes up the. stairs, gives a "What can I do?" glance to the unconscious Anna, and then continues rushing, past a pillar.  Minerva emerges from behind the pillar and moves forward. 
THE LONG ENIGMATIC HALLWAY 
Hawk chugs beneath the Lenin mural and down the hall- way.  He sees Darwin breezing in front of him.  Darwin looks back to Hawk then runs forward into the darkness. 
THE BALLROOM 
Minera sits down next to the pained Alex. 
MINERVA Alex.  How's it going? 
ALEX Go, go to Hell, to Hell. 
Minerva pulls out a candy bar and rips it open. 
MINERVA Where's your insulin....No?  Well, Bon Appetite. 
Minerva savagely slams Alex's head down and shoves the candy bar in his mouth. 
THE HALLWAY 
Hawk moves closer and closer to the darkness of the hallway when a one-eyed and bleeding George Kaplan dives out of the Art Treasures room and tackles him.  Hawk kicks him off... 
HAWK Oh, come on.... 
THE BALLROOM 
Alex gulps down the last of the candy bar, shivering. 
MINERVA Very good, Alex, but you re still alive.... 
She pulls out another candy bar.  Alex, with a last burst of strength, punches her across the face. 
THE BALLROOM 
Hawk runs up to a woozy Anna and helps her up.  She has a cross-shaped blood stain on her forehead. 
HAWK Oh, honey.... 
Hawk looks to Alex, sitting on the stairs, the same way he left him.  Hawk rushes to him. 
HAWK We did it man, we... 
Hawk grabs Alex's shoulder.  Alex falls back.  Written over his face in red lipstick is REALLY DEAD. 
Engaging a slow motion sequence, Minerva saunters behind Anna, putting on red lipstick.  Minerva slams her back to the ground. 
Hawk howls then turns to see stiff-upper-lip Alfred, bleeding from the neck.  Hawk tries to throw a punch, but Alfred blocks it and crunches him across the face. 
The Da Vinci helicopter model bounces down the stairs in slow motion and cracks open, revealing the intricate mirror of the opening scene. 
INT. DARK ROOM ATOP MAYFLOWER MUSEUM--DAY 
A damaged Hawk awakens in a dungeonish room and stumbles to some shutters.  "O Solo Mio" returns on the sound- track as the shutters open to a postcard view of Vinci. 
Hawk closes the shutters and cuts off the music.  A slightly more composed Anna touches his shoulder causing him to jump slightly.  They melt into a kiss. 
ANNA Oh Hudson... 
HAWK I told you not to call me Hudson. The only people who called me that were the nuns at... 
ANNA Oh Hudson, I'm a sister of the Catholic church as well as an agent. 
HAWK (cut-off laugh) This is too bad to be false. 
Alfred enters the room in his favorite outfit with a bandage around his neck.  His voice is strange, but still polite. 
ALFRED Welcome back to Vinci. 
HAWK Last rites, sister? 
ANNA Please, no nun jokes...They're a bad habit to get into....get it? 
Hawk and Anna unconvincingly laugh then sadly pause. 
HAWK She killed Alex. 
Alfred gives them a push. 
INT. THE DA VINCI WORKSHOP 
Alfred leads them through the Da Vinci workshop past the bat winged glider and incongruously crammed-in tennis ball machine. 
INT. THE ROOM OF THE GOLD MACHINE--DAY 
Alfred grandly opens double-doors to reveal that Da Vinci's gold machine has been majestically re-created piece by piece.  In the periphery, the 90's rears its head in the form of THREE TECHNICIANS wearing headsets and gun holsters who consult computer terminals. 
MINERVA (O.S.) GOLD-FI-ING-ER! 
Hawk and Anna turn to see Minerva splashily enter in sexy funeral-wear. 
MINERVA Sorry, I couldn't resist.  You're probably wondering why you're still alive.  Anna..... 
As Minerva speaks, TECHNICIAN ONE forcibly escorts Anna toward a stand near the gold machine and tightly handcuffs her to it. 
MINERVA I want you to monitor the Da Vinci's directions from the apprentice diary.  And Hawk, I didn't want you to go to hell without knowing that Darwin and I's dream came true. (suddenly sheepish) Beside that, none of us can seem to put that damn crystal together. Alfie and I were up all night with the thing. 
TECHNICIAN TWO commences a forcible escort of Hawk to the gold machine.  Hawk cold-cocks him to the ground. 
HAWK You killed a friend.  Why should I help you go for the gold? 
MINERVA It'll take a couple of years of steady production, but I'll flood the market with so much gold that gold itself, the foundation of all finance, will lose its meaning. Brokers, economists, and fellow entrepreneurs will drown in the saliva of their own nervous breakdowns.  Markets will crash- crash.  Financial Empires will crumble-crumble. 
HAWK Except yours-yours.  The goal of world domination.  Well, if you put it that way, Minnie.  How can I resist? 
MINERVA You can't, convict!  You're just a shmoe!  Every shmoe has the fantasy the planet revolves around them.  It rains, car crash stops traffic, you say "How could this happen to me?"  It's a natural inclination.  But for I, this isn't a fantasy, it is reality! You are on my planet!  You walk around the corner for coffee, out of my sight, you do not fucking exist!  The lives of shmoes like you have meaning only in relation to the rich, to the powerful, to ME! 
Oblivious to the violence behind her, Minerva, pulling on goggles over her head-set, moves closer with a religious purr. 
THE MACHINE 
triggers a fresnel lens and laserlike beams bounce around the mirrors faster and faster, circling the room. 
OUTSIDE THE MACHINE 
Hawk and Anna squint, blinded.  Flinging off her goggles, A literally beaming Minerva giggles forward. 
THE MACHINE 
Beams of light converge on the top mirror and bounce into the innards of the machine with a mighty roar! 
MINERVA 
sees that the center of the machine gleams yellowish and molten.  She moves closer, shouting into her head-set. 
MINERVA Eureka, motherfuckers! 
The machine thunders and spins at a more aggressive pace. 
Hawk's voice suddenly comes on Minerva's head-set. 
HAWK'S VOICE (head-set) Minnie, hate to interrupt your orgasm, but.... 
HAWK AND ANNA 
stand above the unconscious Technicians.  Hawk is on head-set. 
HAWK Me, Anna, and Leonardo just wanna say you got the Midas touch, baby... 
MACHINE 
Minerva turns toward the machine in anger and confusion. 
The center of the machine blows.  The pool of molten gold rockets at the viewer. 
Mirrors explode and the lasers slash at the walls. 
Minerva tumbles from the machine, screaming, that is to say, trying to scream, because molten gold covers her face.  It bubbles and cascades, turning her into a bizarrely beautiful echo of Nefertiti. 
HAWK AND ANNA 
turn to retreat, and see, standing in the mouth of the open double doors, in an open shirt, wearing Indian war paint on his face and the words RULE BRITANNIA painted on his chest, ALFRED! 
ALFRED How. 
HAWK You're unemployed, Alfie.  Boss is dead.  Her plan is over. 
ALFRED (strange voiced) My plan is just beginning.  I'll forgive you for denying me the pleasure of slaughtering my boorish employers, but I'm afraid the birth of the new British Empire can have no witnesses! 
HAWK Ooh-kay... 
Alfred rushes forward with a howl.  Hawk meets him halfway.  They trade savage punches and then lock onto each other's throats. 
Anna pulls a gun from a technician's holster and prays for forgiveness.  She aims steadily, and fires... 
right into Hawk's arm.  This allows Alfred to knock him back with a strong punch. 
ANNA Sorry! 
She fires again.  The bullet pings off Hawk's belt buckle. 
HAWK Stop helping me!  Thou shalt not kill! 
Hawk's turning to chastize Anna, allows Alfred to kick Hawk back against a wall.  Alfred lunges out with his blade, hitting the wall off-angle.  Hawk yanks the shaft. Alfred goes with the flow and presses the shaft on Hawk's throat. 
Gasping, Hawk looks to a rip in Alfred's shirt and sees a hinge and lever on the shaft.  With an all or nothing jerk, Hawk flicks the lever.  The shaft clicks on the hinge. 
Alfred's greater strength and narrower grip makes it fold away from Hawk and suddenly it is Alfred's throat which is caught in the V-shaped trap!  The momentum of the sudden change makes Alfred stumble towards the wall until the point of the "V" hits it-- 
HAWK Don't lose your head over this. 
