The cop who vomited, gags again. Lila stares at him. Her face is hard, blank. She stubs out her cigarette. 
CUT TO: 
INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY 
Puff testifies before the committee. 
PUFF I don't think there's anyone in the world who doesn't know by now that I was raised in the wilderness by an ape. Well, to be fair, by a man who thought himself an ape, but it amounts to the same thing gentlemen, does it not? 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. FOREST CLEARING - DAY. 
This has a faded, "memory" look also. A naked, bearded, dirty middle-aged man and a naked, dirty ten year old Puff walk along like apes, crouched over and dragging their knuckles. 
PUFF (V.O.) My father escaped from a New Jersey mental institution in 1963. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT 
It's raining and deserted. Puff's father, in pajamas, comes tearing around the corner. He runs crazily towards the camera, waving his arms, puffing out his cheeks. 
PUFF (V.O.) He had been committed the previous year after applying one too many times at our local zoo for the job of "apprentice ape." 
Puff's father passes a newspaper vending machine, stops, goes back and examines the headline. It reads: President Kennedy Assassinated. Puff's father looks heavenward and clutches at his temples in despair. 
PUFF (V.O.) My father saw what the human race had come to while he was... in captivity. He felt something had to be done to create a better world. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - NIGHT 
Puff's father climbs out a second story window with a small bundle in his arms. He runs off into the night. 
PUFF (V.O.) He stole little me from my mother, his ex-wife, and raised me, with love and tenderness and respect, as an ape like himself. 
CUT TO: 
INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY 
Puff looks pointedly at the congressman. 
PUFF Apes don't assassinate their presidents, gentlemen. 
The congressmen are shamed: they look down, they take notes, they mumble instructions to the assistants seated behind them. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
An adult Puff and his now older father sit on the forest floor and pick bugs off each other and eat them. 
PUFF (V.O.) Until quite recently I believed myself to be an ape, although I didn't know specifically what type. Apes don't think in terms of type. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY 
Puff testifies. 
PUFF It might be argued, gentlemen, that apes don't even know that they are apes. In retrospect, however, I'd say that I was a pygmy chimp. 
Puff holds up an illustration of a pygmy chimp. Several reporters run from the room: a scoop! 
CUT TO: 
INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY 
Nathan talks to nobody in particular. 
NATHAN I have to say I always hated apes. Of course I don't any longer. I don't even know what hate means now. But while alive, I hated apes. I blame my parents. I mean, I don't blame them. I don't know what blame is, really, anymore, but I think they influenced me in my ape-hating tendencies. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE (pegged) You're fucked up, Lila. (out the door) Why don't you fucking try electrolysis or something? Figure it out for chrissake. 
The door slams. Lila hugs her knees to her chest. 
LILA (V.O.) At sixty dollars an hour, electrolysis was not a feasible solution. I explored my alternatives. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ART MUSEUM - DAY 
Twelve year old Lila walks sadly through an art museum. she looks at various old portraits of men. She studies their facial hair. When she turns a corner, she is shocked to see a large Renaissance painting of a naked woman entirely covered with fur. She hurries to it. She looks at the placard next to the painting. It is a painting of Mary Magdalene. 
LILA (V.O.) I remember once coming across a painting of Mary Magdalene entirely covered with fur. I guess that's where I got the idea that maybe the Catholic Church might be a place that encouraged excessive hair growth in its women. 
INT. CONVENT - DAY 
Lila, in a nun's habit, is on her knees praying. 
LILA (V.O.) So I became a nun. 
LILA Heavenly Father... (sighs) ...please let this hair go away. 
LILA (V.O.) But my prayers were always so selfish. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD - NIGHT 
A bunch of naked women dance and chat around a campfire. 
Lila is there, pretty hairy. So are many of the other women. 
LILA (V.O.) I tried being a lesbian separatist. 
LESBIANS (chanting) A woman without a man / Is like a fish without a bicycle. 
LILA (V.O.) But I guess I just wasn't attracted to women, even hostile, man-hating, hairy ones who wore sensible shoes. 
CUT TO: 
INT. TENT - DAY 
Lila, in a full beard, sits on a throne before a crowd of gawking, dumb-looking, mouth-breathing children. Next to her on a separate stage is a sour-looking, middle-aged midget man sitting on a throne, staring blankly into space. 
LILA (V.O.) For a while I was a professional circus freak. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. TENT - DAY 
Lila, in a Santa suit, with beard sprayed white, sits on a throne in front of a crowd of gawking, dumb-looking, mouth- breathing children. One of them is on her lap. Next to her sits the sour midget, dressed in an elf suit. 
LILA (V.O.) During the holiday season, they made us wear costumes. 
LILA (depressed) Ho ho ho. 
KID ON HER LAP That's not real. 
The kid pulls Lila's beard. 
LILA Ow! You little fuck. 
LILA (V.O.) Aside from the great dental, this occupation was not pleasant. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT 
Lila walks home. She's wrapped in winter clothing, but we can still see a bit of her white beard. It's snowing. The street is deserted. She spots a lighted window, she peers in. It's a warm family scene. Large group of chatting, laughing people. Fire in the fireplace. Big turkey on the table. 
LILA (V.O.) They say the holidays are difficult for a lot of people. 
Lila looks down the street and sees dozens of lonely-looking people peering forlornly in warmly lit windows. Some on ladders to peer in second-floor windows. Lila sighs. 
The blowing hair driers whip the women's wet hair around their heads. The blowing hair drier drone is unbearably loud. 
LILA Then I became a famous nature writer. I said to myself, fuck humanity... 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BOOKSTORE WINDOW - DAY 
A big display of the book "Fuck Humanity" by Lila Jute. A long line of women with beautifully coiffured hair snakes out of the store. 
LILA ...and I became a recluse. I had a menagerie of animals at my house. They loved me because I was me. They loved me on the days I shaved. They loved me on the days I didn't. For a while this was enough. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. LOG HOUSE - DAY 
Lila lies in bed tapping on a lap top. A dog lies with her and licks her knee. She seems to enjoy it, and gets lost in a reverie. The dog morphs into a handsome man, kissing her knee and working his way up her thigh and under her nightgown. Lila is getting seriously hot and bothered. Her head lolls. But the reverie dissipates and the man turns back into a dog rooting around her crotch with his cold nose. She pushes him away. The dejected dog gets off the bed. 
LILA (V.O.) By the time I was thirty I was very, very horny. 
Lila gets out of bed and studies herself in the mirror. She brushes her hands against her hairy body. 
LILA I had to have a man in my... life. At any cost. I would become what I needed to become to achieve this. I would become a hairless lie. 
The mirror image of Lila shimmers and turns into Lila with no body hair. Lila all made-up and with a smart new hairstyle. She assumes a coquettish pose and smiles cutely at herself. 
LILA I was rich enough for electrolysis by this time, so I began the long arduous process of having each inappropriate hair burned out of my body at the root. 
CUT TO: 
INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT 
Lila talks. One of the cops is doodling. One is picking wax from his ear with a pencil. One is reading a paperback novel under the table. 
LILA This is when everything changed, and this is where my confession really begins. 
The cops look up. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ELECTROLOGIST'S OFFICE - DAY 
Lila lies shirtless on a table while Rose, her fifty year old electrologist, works on her back. 
ROSE Progress! 
LILA Ouch. Yeah? 
ROSE Oh yes, honey. Getting to be smooth smooth smooth all over. Smooth as a baby's butt. 
LILA I love it, Rose. I'm getting to be a real girl. 
ROSE You still in the market for a real boy? 
LILA Always. Ow. 
ROSE (beat) Cause there's this guy. My brother knows him. Might be right up your alley. 
LILA Tell me. I could use someone up my alley. 
ROSE (playing dumb) I don't get that. Is that sexual? 
LILA Shut up and tell me. 
ROSE Handsome, thirties, psychologist... 
LILA Loves animals? Ouch. Must love animals, Rose. 
ROSE Loves animals. Loves you. 
LILA What do you mean? 
ROSE Somehow it came up that you were a friend of mine. Mr. handsome, animal- loving psychologist said he would love to meet you. 
Nathan blushes. Lila stares at him for a long moment. Her thoughts are unreadable. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ELECTROLOGIST'S OFFICE - DAY 
Lila lies on her back. Rose works on her breasts. 
ROSE So? 
LILA I really like him, Rose. He's so... (searching) ...passionate about his work. 
ROSE My brother says he likes you, too. 
LILA (pleased) Really? 
ROSE Yeah. Says he likes you even more than he likes his own mother. And according to my brother Nathan's abormally close with his mother. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY 
Nathan talks. 
NATHAN I began going to a therapist when I was in my thirties, because I felt that I wasn't enjoying life the way my friends were. (beat) After a time my childhood came up. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. DINING ROOM - DAY 
It is another sepia scene. Nathan as a ten year old sits at the table with his parents. There is a bowl of salad in front of each of them. Everyone's head is bowed in prayer. 
FATHER Lord, we thank you for this bountiful gift we are about to receive. 
ALL Amen. 
Eyes open, and young Nathan reaches for a fork to eat the salad. He grabs the wrong fork. Mother's eyes widen in horror. 
MOTHER My God, no! My God! (disappointed) Oh, Nathan. 
Nathan looks up. 
MOTHER That is the wrong fork, young man. (to father) Harold, tell the boy. 
FATHER That is the wrong fork, young man. 
NATHAN AS A BOY (panicky) I'll use the right one. I'm sorry. I forgot. 
MOTHER Harold, tell the boy more. 
FATHER Too late. Go to your room. 
NATHAN AS A BOY But... 
MOTHER Harold! Tell the boy again. 
FATHER (looking at mother) No "buts." Go to your room now. 
MOTHER (looking at father) And? 
FATHER And think about what you've done. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. THERAPIST'S OFFICE - DAY 
Adult Nathan sits on the couch, dabbing at his eyes. 
Wendall, his therapist sits across from him and writes something in his notebook. 
WENDALL And do you think maybe this early childhood indoctrination has something to do with your interest in table manners in the present. 
Nathan thinks long and hard about this. He seems to be really straining, squinting his eyes. Finally: 
LILA Like nothing. 
Nathan smiles, relieved. Lila smiles back. Nathan recoils slightly, skittishly half-points to his bared teeth. 
Apparently there's a piece of food stuck in Lila's teeth. 
She closes her mouth, runs her tongue over her teeth, smiles again, mouth closed. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ELECTROLOGIST'S OFFICE -DAY 
Rose is doing Lila's feet. 
ROSE My brother says things are going really well between you and Nathan. 
LILA I cannot believe how in love I am with this man. 
ROSE Yeah? 
LILA He's so cute. I even like his cute little penis. It's like a little pig's penis or something. (beat) Rose, we connect on every level. I've finally found someone I can feel completely safe with. 
ROSE Don't throw that away. I had that once with a guy. But I threw it away for a cheap thrill. 
LILA One night stand? 
ROSE No. I married a midget. 
LILA Marrying a midget was a cheap thrill? 
ROSE Well he wasn't really a midget. He was on the cusp of midgethood. That's what made it cheap. Had he been an actual midget, there would've been nothing cheap about it, my dear. 
LILA I didn't know you were into that sort of thing. 
ROSE Let me tell you, honey, midgets are the best kept secret in male companionship. They're portable. They're controllable. They're eager. And they're exactly the right height for a little covert oral fun on the dance floor. 
LILA (screams with delight, then:) I have a friend you might like to meet. 
ROSE Oh? 
LILA Three foot one. 
ROSE Be still my crotch. 
LILA Rose, Nathan's no midget, but he's asked me to move in with him. 
ROSE Yeah. My brother told me. 
LILA And I think I'm going to. 
ROSE (mulling it over) Stand on a stepladder sometimes. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY 
Nathan talks. 
NATHAN Lila moved in with me. Did I love her? I thought so. But from my new vantage point I realize that love is nothing more than a messy conglomeration of need, desperation, fear of death, insecurity about penis size, and the self-involved, ego driven need to collect other people's hearts. Not that I judge it. (puts head in hands. beat. looks up) Listen, I don't want to be dead yet. Is there any way to... 
Nathan looks around for some sign of another person. There is nobody. 
NATHAN No I suppose not. (beat) No biggie. Anyway, Lila moved in. We had our problems, but we both wanted love so badly, we turned a blind eye. 
INT. NATHAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Nathan, Lila, and Nathan's parents (looking very, very old) sit at the dining room table. Salad is about to be eaten, and everyone glances sideways over at Lila, waiting for her to make her move. She reaches for the wrong fork, corrects herself and picks the salad fork. Nathan breathes a sigh of relief. His mother looks disappointed, clucks. They eat in silence. Finally: 
LILA It's lovely to finally meet you, Mr. and Mrs. Bronfman. I've heard so much about you and I've seen you in photographs from Nathan's childhood, but it's nice to meet you in the flesh. I must say, you look exactly the same as in the photographs. 
MOTHER Thank you, dear. 
NATHAN Actually, Mother and Father, you look very, very old. You look terrible. 
Nathan drives. He's dressed in spanking new, freshly starched safari clothes, big shiny new hiking boots. Lila sits in the front passenger seat. She is dressed in a costume identical to Nathan's, but, as opposed to Nathan, she seems awkward in it. She fidgets in it, straightens it, sighs, comes to terms with it, and looks dreamily out the window at the passing trees. She is home. That's all that matters. 
NATHAN Darling, did you bring the insect repellent lotion? 
LILA Yes, darling. 
NATHAN (beat) Oh, and the sun block? 
LILA Of course. 
NATHAN What SPF, sweetie? 
LILA Fifteen. 
NATHAN Perfectomundo! We are ready! (beat) Say, wouldn't it be wonderful to have an insect repellent lotion that also worked as a sun block? Think of all the time one would save. 
LILA Yes, darling. 
NATHAN I think I'll get Johannsen in chemistry on that. (beat) Oh! Did you bring the first aid kit? 
LILA Yes. 
NATHAN Flares? 
LILA Absolutely. 
NATHAN We could call it "Quit Bugging Me, Sunny." (laughs a lot) Get it? Sunny. S-u-n-n-y. 
LILA (laughs appreciatively) That's very funny. 
NATHAN I love you so much. 
CUT TO: 
INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY 
Puff testifies. 
PUFF Then, gentlemen, one day I saw something I hadn't seen since my father died in a freak accident involving a rotted log and four thousand bees stinging his head... I saw other human beings. They chattered away at each other in what appeared to be gibberish. Later I learned it was English. Now I wonder if perhaps my initial assessment hadn't been correct. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
Puff's POV: Through some brush we watch Nathan and Lila hiking. We hear Puff's loud heavy breathing and, in the distance, the relentless gibberish chatter of Nathan and Lila. Puff moves. Lila glances over. 
CUT TO: 
INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT 
Lila talks. 
LILA It was a flash of white. I ruled out deer immediately. Too... upright. 
CUT TO: 
INT. FOREST - DAY 
We're with Lila and Nathan now. Lila has stopped and is peering into the distance. 
LILA Did you see that? 
NATHAN What? 
LILA I don't know. Something. 
NATHAN A deer? 
LILA No. Too... upright. Might've been a person. 
NATHAN (nervously) It might behoove us to turn back at this point. 
Lila walks in the direction of the sighting. 
GABRIELLE You're so sweet. Oh, why are there not more men out there like you? 
Gabrielle starts to cry softly. Nathan doesn't know what to do. His eyes dart around, then: 
NATHAN There there. 
Gabrielle looks up at him appreciatively. She sniffs. 
GABRIELLE You know just the right thing to say. 
She reaches across the table and touches his hand lightly for a moment. 
NATHAN Listen, you're the best assistant I've ever had... Gabrielle. 
GABRIELLE (smiles) I like it when you say my name. Is that stupid? 
CUT TO: 
INT. NATHAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Nathan, in his pajamas, lies in bed reading. He looks up. 
NATHAN What are you doing in there? 
LILA (O.S.) Nothing. Be right out. 
The phone rings. Nathan picks it up. 
NATHAN Hello? (beat, happily) Oh, hi... Gabrielle! 
Nathan sits up in bed. 
LILA (O.S.) Who is it? 
NATHAN Uh-huh. Right, Gabrielle. Right. 
Nathan laughs. 
LILA (O.S.) Who is it? 
NATHAN (into phone) Absolutely, Gabrielle. (covering phone, testily) Someone from work! (into phone) Sorry about that, Gabrielle. Uh-huh. Exactly. 
Nathan laughs. 
LILA (O.S.) Who from work? 
NATHAN (into phone) Excuse me one second, would you, Gabrielle? 
Nathan puts down the phone and heads to the bathroom. 
LILA (O.S.) Who is it, Nathan? 
Nathan opens the bathroom door. 
NATHAN Look, Lila, when I'm on a work... 
Lila turns with a gasp. She has shaving cream all over her chest. Nathan looks stunned. He backs away. 
LILA Nathan, I... 
CUT TO: 
INT. GABRIELLE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
The lights are low. The room is peppered with lit candles. 
Gabrielle, in a slip, lies on her bed, eating cherries from a bowl, and listening to Nathan and Lila's conversation on speaker. 
LILA (O.S.) It's hormonal, Nathan. I can't help it. I'm sorry. 
NATHAN (O.S.) Your entire body? 
LILA (O.S.) I'm getting electrolysis. It's working, but it takes time. So meanwhile I have to... 
Nathan stares at her, transfixed. She pretends not to notice. 
GABRIELLE Shall we close up, then? 
NATHAN Maybe we should just sit for a while. It's very peaceful. 
GABRIELLE It's nice, yes. I'm glad I ran into you, both in our silly pajamas. It is two happy coincidences, no? 
NATHAN Yes. Happy happy. 
GABRIELLE Yet you look so sad. A great man like you should not be sad. 
NATHAN I'm fine. Life is funny, that's all. 
Gabrielle stands. She stretches languorously, revealing a lot of leg. 
GABRIELLE I am sleepy. 
NATHAN I shouldn't say this, but you're pretty, Gabrielle. It's unprofessional, I know. 
GABRIELLE Really? I always think myself so ugly. No, not ugly, but plain. A wallflower. 
NATHAN (buying her line) Really? No. Not at all. You're a very pretty girl. You should know that. You should be confident. 
GABRIELLE Thank you so much. Merci. It's very wonderful to hear a man say such a nice compliment. 
NATHAN It's true. I wouldn't lie. 
GABRIELLE You are sweet. 
Gabrielle walks slowly by Nathan. He inhales deeply, breathing her in. She smiles to herself. He reaches out touches her leg. 
GABRIELLE (vaguely protesting) Doctor. 
She moves into Nathan. She presses her thigh against his shoulder. Nathan leans forward, kisses her exposed thigh. 
NATHAN So soft. So smooth. (back to reality) I'm sorry. It's just... 
GABRIELLE (soothing) Shh. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT 
Lila is shaving herself all over. Shaving and weeping. 
There are nicks all over her body. She has no eyebrows any more. The hair on her head is hacked off. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAB - NIGHT 
Nathan and Gabrielle are lying naked on the floor. 
Gabrielle rests her head on Nathan's chest. 
NATHAN Was that okay? I mean, was I able to... satisfy you? 
LILA You are an animal. 
NATHAN Really? Wow! That's that's terrific to hear from someone so... feminine, so female. 
LILA I love being female because it, how do you say, allows me to be close to men. 
NATHAN I'm glad you're female. (beat) Do you think our boy witnessed the primal scene? 
GABRIELLE Anyway it's time he grew up. N'est- ce pa? (sighing, running her fingers along his chest) I love chest hair on a man. I know it isn't fashionable now, hairy men. But to me it is the very sign of masculinity. 
Nathan tenses. Gabrielle looks up innocently at him. 
GABRIELLE What is wrong, my darling? 
NATHAN Nothing, my darling. All is right with the world. 
Nathan talks. A tear runs down his face, mingles with the blood. 
NATHAN Funny. I still feel guilt. Even dead. One would've hoped... But alas. You know, I really did love Lila. But with her... problem... and then when Gabrielle revealed her feelings. And Gabrielle was so... conventionally female. And she had an accent. I was lost from that moment on. But Gabrielle was right. I couldn't admit it to myself, this shallowness of character, let alone to Lila. 
CUT TO: 
INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT 
Lila and Nathan eat. Lila is in her new, very feminine make- up, wig, and dress. Her table manners are impeccable, almost robotic. There is an awkward silence 
LILA Are you seeing somebody else, Nathan? I just have to know. 
NATHAN Of course not. 
LILA It would just be helpful to know. 
NATHAN No. 
LILA Because, you know, you seem so distant. And you work late every night. And we hardly ever have sex, and when we do, it's... I don't know. It feels different. 
NATHAN I'm just preoccupied. 
LILA Do you like my new look? 
NATHAN Yeah. It's nice. It's really good. 
LILA I'm trying, you know. (starting to cry) I'm trying to be what you want. I want to be what you want, Nathan. All I want is to be what you want. 
NATHAN (embarrassed) Shh. It's okay. (takes her hand) It's okay, Lila. You're what I want. You know that. You're exactly what I want. 
LILA (hopefully, sniffing) Really? 
NATHAN Sure. Of course. 
LILA Because I'm really trying, you know. Rosie says maybe only another two years of the elctrolysis. 
NATHAN (hard to stomach) That's great. 
LILA I've signed up for a ballet class. And look at my nails! A real girl! 
Lila holds out her hands. Her finger nails are polished fire engine red. 
NATHAN That's great. It's a great color for you. 
LILA Oh, Nathan, let's have a baby! 
CUT TO: 
INT. NURSERY - DAY 
Lila holds and rocks a swaddled baby. She passes it to Nathan, who looks at it and sees that it's a baby monkey. 
Nathan shudders. Lila looks on lovingly, oblivious. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. THERAPIST'S OFFICE - DAY 
Nathan sits with his head in his hands. Wendall listens attentively. 
NATHAN So anyway, that's the nightmare I've been having lately. 
WENDALL Do you suppose it has anything to do with Lila's unusually hairy body? 
NATHAN (beat) No, why? 
WENDALL Well, it seems that since Lila broached the subject of children, you've been on edge and I know you have an issue with the, uh, body hair. 
NATHAN (revelation) Oh, I see. Yes, that's something to think about. That's very good. That's what you get the big bucks, right? Ha ha. 
WENDALL I just think it might be important to explore your feelings for Lila. 
NATHAN I love Lila. I mean, she's a wonderful person. And... she loves me! That's no small potatoes. I mean she really loves me. She's sacrificed so much to be in this relationship with me. And she's a good person. A truly good person. How rare is that in this world, eh? And how could I stop loving somebody because of a little physical imperfection, if it can even be called that. I mean, God knows I'm not perfect! What about my eyesight? It's lousy, that's what! Lila's not going to leave me because of my eyesight. What about my penis? 
CUT TO: 
INT. LILA AND NATHAN'S - NIGHT 
Lila, all prettied up and civilized and manicured, is setting the table for dinner. She is humming. Nathan walks in the door. Lila doesn't hear him. He stands in the doorway for a moment, watching Lila from behind. His face is blank. Lila catches sight of him. She's startled. 
LILA Oh! (laughs) I didn't see you there, sneaky boy! (runs over and kisses him) You're like a boy sneaking in... 
NATHAN (so bored) ...the back door of a movie theater. Yes, indeed. 
LILA You remember that from my book? I'm touched! (kisses him again) What's wrong? 
NATHAN Nothing. Hard day. Gonna have a drink. 
LILA I'll make it. (beats him to the portable bar) I'm so happy, Nathan! Everything's going to be so great! Scotch on the rocks, right? (giggles) Just kidding. I know what you drink, mister. I know what you drink. (pours and blends and shakes, etc.) Voila! 
Lila hands Nathan a frothy pink concoction with a pineapple wedge sticking out of it. 
NATHAN Thanks. 
Nathan stares contemplatively out the window and sips his drink. Lila watches him, comes up behind him, puts her arms around him. Nathan cringes, but tries to cover it. Lila feels the cringe, but pretends not to have. She keeps her arms around him for a moment longer, then casually removes them. 
LILA (fishing) How's work? 
NATHAN Cruddy, okay? Are you satisfied? 
LILA (pouty) No. I don't want your work to be cruddy. 
NATHAN My assistant quit today. Okay? He was highly valuable to the project. 
LILA Oh, baby. I'm sorry. Can't you hire somebody else? 
NATHAN I guess. 
Lila screws up her face in concentration, trying to come with a viable solution to Nathan's problem. 
LILA Hey! I could come work for you! I know I haven't been all that supportive of this project, but I've come around. 
NATHAN Have you? 
LILA Oh yes, baby! I think that this is a wonderful project you're doing, taking this poor unfortunate, uncivilized creature and turning him into a human being! What a wonderful wonderful compassionate man you are! 
NATHAN Really? 
LILA Yes! And I want to help. You won't have to pay me, and I was thinking of giving up that crazy nature writing anyway. 
NATHAN How come? 
LILA Who needs it? I have you and I have being a woman and I have thinking about womanly things! I love being a woman because... 
NATHAN Such as what womanly things? 
LILA Such as my man and how to please him! (kisses him) Such as making wonderful dinners for my man! (kisses him again, leads him to the table, sits him down) Such as looking pretty for my man! (kisses him again) And I'm writing an article on quilting for the Ladies Home Journal! 
CUT TO: 
INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT 
LILA I had sold my fucking soul. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY 
NATHAN I let her sell her soul. I stood by as she did it. It's inexcusable. (beat) At the time though I thought it might help. 
CUT TO: 
INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY 
PUFF When she came to work with Nathan, she seemed different, gentlemen, I don't know, somehow soulless. 
CUT TO: 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CITY STREET - DAY 
Lila, Nathan, and Puff walk along. Puff is astounded by everything he sees. He looks with wonderment at the tall buildings, the cars, the many different types of people. He looks like an idiot. 
CUT TO: 
INT. FANCY RESTAURANT - DAY 
Puff, Lila, and Nathan are eating lunch. Everything is very proper. Puff is doing wonderfully. 
NATHAN This is great, Puff. You're doing fine. 
PUFF I'm loving this. It's such a treat to be out and about. What a wonderful invention a city is. The immense buildings of glass and steel glinting in the afternoon sun, the smartly dressed women in their best summer frocks, the colorful street vendors. 
The waitress comes by. 
WAITRESS How is everything? 
PUFF Just spectacular. Great salmon. Fantastico! You've got to give me the recipe! My compliments to the chef! 
WAITRESS I'm glad you... 
Puff stands and grabs her and starts humping her. 
NATHAN Puff, no! 
Nathan presses a button on a small black box. Puff falls to the floor. The waitress looks on, sort of confused. 
WAITRESS And will that be all today? 
CUT TO: 
INT. TAXI - DAY 
Lila, Nathan, and Puff are in the back seat of the moving taxi. 
PUFF It shan't happen again. I swear it. I'm just getting my sea legs, you know. 
LILA (patting Puff on the back) It's an animal urge, Puff. It's nothing to be ashamed of. 
NATHAN Lila! Tell him. 
Lila looks at Nathan, amends her statement. 
LILA (to Puff) You just have to control it. We're not apes. 
NATHAN Thank you very much for that. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAB - DAY 
Puff is sitting in a chair and facing a screen. The collar is around his neck. Nathan and Lila stand behind him at a slide projector. 
PUFF I don't think this aversion therapy is really necessary, doctor. I understand the problem. 
NATHAN Humor me, Puff. It's essential that I am able to trust you to function independently in the world. 
PUFF I bow to your expertise in these matters. 
NATHAN Lila? 
Lila dims the lights and switches on the projector. An image of a pretty, fully clothed woman appears on the screen. Puff's eyes widen, but he remains seated. 
NATHAN Good. You're doing fine. 
The slide changes to a naked woman standing in a neutral position, no expression on her face. Puff twitches, but stays seated. 
NATHAN Excellent. 
The slide changes to another photo of the same woman in the same position, but with a seductive smile on her face. Puff clutches the arms of the chairs. 
It has been transformed into a bachelor pad. Inside is a king-size bed, a TV, a couch, coffee table, shelves lined with books, a small kitchenette. There is a curtain which can be drawn for privacy. Puff is taken aback. 
NATHAN AND LILA Surprise! 
Puff gasps and runs into the room. He is thrilled. Nathan holds up a key. 
NATHAN Free to come and go as you please. There's some "mad money" in the night table drawer. 
PUFF (taking the key, hugging Nathan) It's wonderful! Do you think I'm ready? Do you really? 
NATHAN I trust that you'll make good, mature decisions. I trust that you'll do the proper thing. 
PUFF Oh, I will! (gravely) Your very trust has instilled an enormous sense of responsibility in me. I don't want to disappoint you. 
NATHAN Good. Remember, when in doubt: Don't ever do what you really want to do. 
PUFF (taking it in) Got it. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LILA AND NATHAN'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Lila and Nathan sit as far as possible from each other and read books. Nathan looks at his watch. 
CUT TO: 
INT. PUFF'S CASE - NIGHT 
Puff, dressed identically to Nathan, reads Moby Dick and smokes a pipe. He distractedly taps his foot, stands and studies a Monet print on the wall. His foot is still nervously tapping. He checks his watch. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LILA AND NATHAN'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Nathan stands. 
NATHAN I'm going to go down and check on Puff. See how he's holding up. 
LILA (stretching) Should I come with? 
NATHAN Nah. You just relax. How's the book? 
LILA (lazily, happily) Ummm. It's good. 
Nathan kisses Lila on the forehead. 
NATHAN I won't be long. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CAR - NIGHT 
Nathan drives with a determined look on his face. 
CUT TO: 
INT. GABRIELLE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
The apartment is a mess. Every single light is on. 
Gabrielle is lounging in a stained nightshirt with a dopey cartoon bear on the front. She's got some sort of pimple medication dabbed on her face. She unconsciously but ferociously bites her nails as she watches TV and talks on the phone. There is no trace of a French accent. 
GABRIELLE (into phone) You're kidding! Holy shit. (beat) Yeah, no duh! I had a wild hair up my ass over that for a month. 
There's a knock at the door. 
GABRIELLE Yeah? What? 
NATHAN (O.S.) Hi. It's Nathan. 
Gabrielle's eyes widen. She jumps up from the couch and starts straightening. 
GABRIELLE (into phone) Call you back. (hangs up, assumes French accent) You bastard! What do you want? 
NATHAN I'm... I'm going to leave Lila. I can't stop thinking about you. 
GABRIELLE I've moved on. 
NATHAN No! 
GABRIELLE I've been seeing Johannsen in chemistry. 
NATHAN (raging) That goddamn Neanderthal? I'm the one who gave him the idea for the combination bug spray-sun screen! Did you know that?! 
GABRIELLE (calm, dismissive) That's not how he tells it. 
NATHAN Of course not, that Swedish thief! He's a thief of hearts! (beat) I love you, Gabrielle. 
GABRIELLE (dismissive) Hunh. 
NATHAN Just give me some time to let Lila down easily. She's a really nice girl and I don't want to hurt her more than is necessary. 
GABRIELLE (beat) You hurt me, you know, when you made Nathan's Choice. Does that not even matter to you, you pig? 
Gabrielle cries quietly. Nathan moves closer to her. He strokes her hair. 
NATHAN Can you ever forgive me? 
Gabrielle looks up at him. Her expression is noncommittal and pouty, but she grabs his arm and pulls him down on top of her. 
CUT TO: 
INT. STRIP CLUB - NIGHT 
Puff, dressed a bit like he's a Victorian dandy, sits in the front row and watches a naked woman on stage dancing. A topless cocktail waitress comes by with a fresh drink for him. She takes away his empty glass. He is horribly drunk and holding himself with exaggerated rigidity -- an amateur drinker's attempt to look sober. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LILA AND NATHAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Nathan enters. Lila sits on the couch still reading. She looks up. 
NATHAN Hey. 
Nathan kisses her on the forehead. 
LILA You were gone a long time. 
NATHAN (sits down next to her) Yeah. Puff and I got into a big, philosophical discussion. He's really quite well read, considering he's only been literate for a month now. He's going to make us famous, Lila. 
LILA So he's doing okay? 
NATHAN Seemed fine. Quiet evening enjoying his new digs. 
LILA That's funny because, you know, I just went and picked him up at some flophouse on the lower eastside. He called here when he ran out of his "mad" money after spending an entire evening drinking, watching strippers, and fucking a whore! (then casually) Oh, and what did you do tonight, honey? 
NATHAN Shit. 
LILA And what did you do tonight, honey? 
NATHAN I've fallen in love with somebody else, Lila. 
LILA (pointedly) And what did you do tonight, honey? 
NATHAN I fucked her! Okay? I fucked her. I'm sorry. But that's what the hell I did. 
LILA (standing) Do you know what I gave up to be with you? 
NATHAN Yes. 
LILA I gave up my soul, my beliefs. I gave up my body hair! 
NATHAN Yeah, well, I'm sorry. The human heart is a strange thing. 
LILA How the hell would you know anything about the human heart? 
NATHAN (moving to her) Lila... 
INT. LECTURE HALL - DAY 
A bearded psychologist addresses a crowd of bearded psychologists. 
BEARDED PSYCHOLOGIST ...and so without further ado, I give you Dr. Nathan Bronfman and Puff. 
The room bursts into applause as Nathan and Puff walk out onstage, both in tuxes. Nathan stands behind a podium, Puff sits casually, legs crossed, in a chair. 
NATHAN Thank you. Let's get right to it. Here we have Puff the day of his capture. 
A video of Puff naked in his Lucite case, clawing at it, shrieking like a banshee, and neurotically hopping up and down, is projected onto a screen behind Nathan. There is a collective gasp from the audience. Puff watches the video with amused detachment. The video stops. 
NATHAN And here he is today, a scant three months later. 
Puff stands, bows slightly to the audience. They burst into vigorous applause. 
NATHAN Puff, why don't you say a few words to the assemblage. 
PUFF It would be my pleasure, doctor. (behind podium) Distinguished gentlemen and ladies of the psychological community, I stand before you today, a living testament to the amazing skill of Dr. Nathan Bronfman. To say that he took me from crayons to perfume would be a vast understatement. Dr. Bronfman took me from playing with my own feces, then to crayons, and then to an appreciation of the complex works of Franz Kline, Joseph Beuys, and Marcel Duchamp. From compulsive masturbation to... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BACKSTAGE - A BIT LATER 
Gabrielle waits in the wings. 
PUFF (O.S.) And, so, goodnight, adieu, until we meet again, au revoir. 
The audience bursts into thunderous applause. Gabrielle joins in. Nathan and Puff hurry off stage. Gabrielle embraces Nathan. 
GABRIELLE You were wonderful! 
NATHAN Was I? I wasn't a tad stiff? 
GABRIELLE Don't be silly! (hugs Puff) And you were wonderful, too! I loved the way you said " au revoir." 
Puff and Gabrielle exchange a look. She discreetly pinches Puff's butt, smiles, winks. Nathan doesn't see this. He puts his arm around Gabrielle. 
NATHAN Come on, you two. Let's go celebrate! 
Nathan and Gabrielle walk on ahead. Puff tags behind, watching Gabrielle's delightful walk. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER 
Puff sits up on his bed, looking dejected. He listens to the sounds of Nathan and Gabrielle having sex in the adjoining room. He looks at his watch, gets up, gets dressed. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. X RATED BOOKSTORE - LATER 
A sweaty, sick-looking Puff watches a porno film in a little booth. It ends. He steps out into the fluorescent glare of the store. He walks out past several skulking degenerates. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS 
Puff exits the bookstore, walks down the street checking out the tawdry hookers. He chooses one. She leads him into a dark alley. 
CUT TO: 
MONTAGE 
6) Lila in a Tai Chi class. 
7) Lila doing jumping jacks. 
8) Lila reading The Art of War. 
9) Lila doing stomach crunches. 
10) Lila doing chin ups. 
ROSE Done! 
LILA (standing triumphantly) Ready! 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAB - DAY 
Nathan and Gabrielle, in lab coats, sit chatting with Puff. 
Puff sneaks glances at Gabrielle's legs and cleavage. She makes his viewing possible. 
GABRIELLE (off clipboard) So we've got seventeen new bookings for speaking engagements, my wonderful men. 
NATHAN Terrific. We're all going to be rich and famous. 
Nathan kisses Gabrielle. 
PUFF Thanks to you, Nate. 
NATHAN Thanks to you, Buddy. And your diligence and intelligence and perseverance. 
Puff blushes. 
NATHAN (to Gabrielle) And of course to you, my sweet, for your... moral support. 
PUFF (applauding) here, here. 
Gabrielle kisses Nathan while glancing at Puff. A midget in a business suit enters. It's the sour-looking guy from the freak show. 
MIDGET Excuse me, are you Dr. Bronfman? 
PUFF Is that a little boy? 
NATHAN (teaching) No, Puff. This man is a midget. In actuality, they prefer to be called "Little People." Isn't that correct, my good man? 
MIDGET Yes sir. Little People. 
NATHAN This Little Person is actually a fully grown adult man, Puff, believe it or not, who, due to a genetic anomaly, is miniature but perfectly proportioned. (to midget) Turn, please. 
The midget turns. 
PUFF (jotting in notebook) Interesting. 
NATHAN Now, my diminutive friend, what can I do for you? 
The midget pulls out a gun. 
MIDGET You can get into that goddamn Lucite bachelor pad for starters, Goliath. 
Nathan, Gabrielle, and Puff look frightened. They stand and back into the case. 
MIDGET (to Puff) Not you, Joyboy. 
Puff stops in his tracks. Nathan and Gabrielle continue to back into the case. 
NATHAN What is this about? We have no money on these premises. Please if you are from some little person terrorist fringe group... 
MIDGET (loud and scary) Shut up! 
Nathan and Gabrielle hurry into the case. The midget closes and locks the door behind them. Puff is frozen with fear. 
Lila enters. She looks different now. Savage. Strong. 
Kind of sexy. She wears guerilla-like black clothing and a beret over her closely hacked-off hair. She also carries a gun. 
NATHAN Lila? 
GABRIELLE That's Lila? 
LILA Shut up! Yeah, this is Lila, cunt. And don't let the hirsutism fool you. I know more about being a woman, and more about the black hearts of men than you, in your pretty little powdered, bullshit fantasy world, can ever imagine. I know the darkness and cruelty of nature, sweetie pie. 
NATHAN Lila, you don't intend to hurt us, do you? 
NATHAN I know. And that's great. But it would be great in a better way, not a better way but a different way, if I could find him and bring him back. 
GABRIELLE Where do we look for little lost Puff? 
NATHAN I have some thoughts. I think that hairy bitch is somewhere trying to turn him back into an ape. 
GABRIELLE That is horrible. Apes are dirty. No? 
NATHAN You better believe they're dirty! And smelly! And messy! And they don't know their forks from their assholes! 
Nathan, seemingly in the grips of a sudden horrific migraine, scrunches his face and holds his ears. He relaxes a bit, and gets out of bed. He walks across the room, pulls on some pants, and picks up a container called "Stop Buggin' Me, Sunny." 
NATHAN I'm going alone. This could be dangerous. 
GABRIELLE (pulling covers up and turning away from him onto her side) Okay, my sweet. Good night. 
NATHAN A little resistance would be nice, damn it. 
GABRIELLE (without opening her eyes) Please let me go with you. 
NATHAN No. 
GABRIELLE Okay. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. CAR - DAY 
Nathan is driving along a wooded dirt road. He's in his immaculate safari suit. He looks tired. He stops the car, pulls out a gun, and gets out. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. WOODS - CONTINUOUS 
Nathan gets out of the car and runs into the woods. We follow. 
NATHAN (yelling) Aha! 
He looks around there is no one there. He sighs and walks back to his car, pulls out a map and marks an area with a red X. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MOTEL - NIGHT 
Nathan is in his underwear. He is ironing his safari suit as he talks on the phone. 
NATHAN No luck yet, my sweet. 
We see an unfolded map on the bed. There are red X's in almost all the state parks along the east coast. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FOREST - EVENING 
Lila and puff are having sex again next to a campfire. Now Lila is wearing the collar, and Puff is giving her well timed shocks. They giggle and kiss after they finish. Puff sits up. He holds his stomach and grunts hungrily. Lila grunts back. She stands and retrieves a sack of berries. 
Puff and Lila greedily, gluttonously stuff their faces. 
Lila takes some berries and smashes them against Puff's face. She laughs heartily. He looks annoyed for a second, but then grabs a handful and squishes them against Lila's face. Pretty soon they are having a berry war and are covered in purple stains. They hug each other, out of breath and laughing. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT 
Lila smiles. 
LILA It was paradise. (beat, sadly) At least for a tiny little while. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
Lila and Puff lie naked in a tree, lazily soaking up the midday sun. There is a rustling in the bushes. They both look up, alert but calm. Nathan, immaculate in his safari suit, appears in the clearing. He holds a gun. 
CUT TO: 
INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY 
Nathan talks. 
NATHAN Then Puff shot me. Then I died. That's all I know. That's the end of my story. Do I get to go to heaven now? (beat) Or is it... hell? (beat) Or... what? (beat) I just stay here, is it? I just stay here and tell it again? And after that? Again? And after... (sighs) Yes. Yes, of course. (sighs, clears his throat) 
We move into an extreme close-up. 
NATHAN (beginning again) I don't even know what sorry means anymore. It's odd. When I was alive I knew -- maybe it was all I knew... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
Lila runs to Nathan. She kneels beside him. 
LILA He's dead. 
PUFF (calmly) We bury the body. We disappear into the woods. Nobody knows. 
LILA (beat, then quietly) No. This is the end of the road. There's a dead human being here. For all of his faults, he was a human being, and certainly a victim of his culture as much as anybody. 
PUFF Forget him, Lila. We'll disappear. We'll never talk about it again. We'll never talk again period. I love you. 
LILA Puff, what happened to you is as much my fault as Nathan's. Maybe more so, because I knew it was wrong and I went along with it anyway. I'm taking responsibility for the murder. I want you to go back to your old life. 
PUFF I won't let you do that. I shot the bastard. And I'm glad. 
LILA No. Go back to the woods. This is a sacrifice I need to make. In my world we have something called penance. It's another abstraction, but I had the concept drummed into my head during my years in the convent. It doesn't exist for you, and it shouldn't. See, I could never be free again anyway, so I might as well be in jail. 
PUFF (beat) Then I'll live for both of us, Lila. I'll be the most free, truest animal in the whole forest. For both of us. 
LILA (tearing up) That's what I'm counting on. 
PUFF (an idea) But first I'll live among them, just long enough to testify before congress about the waywardness of humankind. 
LILA (shrugs) Okay. If you think it will help. 
CUT TO: 
INT. JAIL - DAY 
Lila, now in prison coveralls, sits in a dayroom with other women convicts. She is watching a TV mounted on the wall. 
Puff is testifying. 
PUFF And so, gentlemen, that is my story. I agreed to testify before this committee because I hoped to convey to the American public that there is indeed a paradise lost. Human beings have become so enamored of their technologies and their intellectual prowess and their fancy gourmet foods, that they've forgotten to look to the Earth as a teacher. This is hubris, my friends. And my story of destruction and betrayal is proof of that. I will keep my promise to Lila. I will shed this suit and go back into the wilderness. I will live out my days naked and free. 
CONGRESSMAN Thank you, sir. Your story has touched us all deeply. We will pass some legislation addressing this problem. 
PUFF Thank you. That is all I ask. (to camera) Good-bye, Lila. I take you with me in my untamed heart. 
Puff stands and exits the auditorium. Flashbulbs flash. 
In the prison common room, Lila wipes a tear from her eye. 
She seems genuinely happy. She looks out a small barred window and sees a bluebird light there, then fly away. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. WASHINGTON STREET - DAY 
Puff walks along, a man on a mission. As he walks he sheds articles of clothing. He is followed by reporters and cameramen and celebrity hounds. Soon he is naked. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - DAY 
Puff walks along, naked. People cheer from porches. 
CUT TO: 
