BETH Do I get to vote? I'm going to tell you something I never told you before. Your feeling towards your work is one of the things I love most about you. 
MATT Really? 
BETH Maybe the most. 
MATT Hey, then we have no problem here. Marry me. 
They kiss, then break, murmuring to each other. 
BETH Stinker, I almost gave up on you. 
MATT I was just worried whether I could make you happy. 
MORPH TO: 
INT. HOSPITAL WAITING AREA - FOUR A.M. 
A SET FRAME showing several clusters of waiting people. A man rushes to one of these clusters, cueing this group to sing the next phrase of "WOW". As an extremely hyper Matt enters, the SONG STOPS and a legend appears: 
MATT (extremely hyper) Everything's okay... Great... She's six or eight pounds even. Oh, God... Nothing like it. I'll tell you something amazing. They really reach right into her stomach and pull out this baby. It's not just a rumor. God. I understand the expression 'mind blowing' for the first time. It means something so wonderful happens that the top of your head comes off and your brain pops out. Part of it was terrifying, the baby was turned and they couldn't budge her. I kept looking at this one woman doctor's eyes. And when Jeannie finally came out, this doctor and I each wiped away a tear at the exact same time, caught ourselves doing it, and then laughed together at the same time. Nothing can prepare you for it. You know why you're alive. 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
As Matt walks with pep, accompanied by a burst of "WOW". 
INT. BETH'S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY 
Beth holds BABY JEANNIE and wears a scowl. 
MATT How you doing? What's wrong? 
BETH My mother said you were flirting with the doctor during the delivery. 
On Matt's expression... 
MORPH TO: 
INT. MODEST ONE-BEDROOM APARTMENT - LATE NIGHT 
Matt and Beth lie on an open sofa-bed. "WOW" is completed, though with a dirge-like cadence. We hear a baby crying over a cheap walky-talky near their bed. 
MATT Could you get her, honey? I have that big reading tomorrow. 
BETH No, I have a lot to do tomorrow, too. I have to borrow on our Christmas Club, I have to... 
MATT Don't worry about money anymore. (on her look) I didn't want to tell you, because it may sound a little strange when I say it out loud. You know me, I'm never that cocky. But I'm going to get 'Spider Woman'. It's me or Raul and I've never been so sure. It's weird, but I just know it. I do. 
BETH (broadly) Boy, am I reassured. What good news. Isn't that a load off? 
INT. BABY'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Where we see the crying baby holding the walky-talky in front of its mouth as it screams into the mouthpiece. 
BACK TO SCENE 
MATT I am gonna get this part, Beth. 
BETH I can't stand this anymore. 
END MAIN TITLES 
FADE IN: 
INT. MATT'S APARTMENT - MORNING 
It's an awful place... the start-up apartment he's way too old for... but we don't yet see his humble quarters. Rather: 
A BLURRED IMAGE 
Then, the screen is CLEARED ON ONE HALF so we see half of a contact lens holder in focus--the other half blurred--until Matt gets his second contact in. 
MATT'S POV 
A tube of tooth bleach. CLOSE ON THE DIRECTIONS, then: 
ON MATT 
Bleaching his teeth... finishing... smiling in the mirror... This is the bleached smile of fear--true fear--the awful state of having lost your way. The phone rings. Matt clears his voice before answering. 
MATT (into phone) Hello... Hi, Beth. I'm glad you finally returned my call. What are you so mad about? (again, into phone) YOU KNOW, YOU'RE NOT THE ONLY ONE WHO CAN SCREAM, I CAN SCREAM, TOO. 
Matt was so suddenly, emotionally extended that the anger leaves him that quickly... just a strange atypical lightning bolt of rage toward life and women. 
CLAIRE (fiercely) Matt Hobbs? Matt Hobbs! 
ON MATT 
Going over his lines. Hearing his name, he rises. Claire gestures him in. 
INT. BURKE'S OFFICE - DAY 
The walls are pockmarked with movie posters. THREE MEN sit in an area some distance from the desk. The casting director, MARTIN, makes the introduction: 
MARTIN This is Matt Hobbs... This is John Earl McAlpine, the director. 
MCALPINE Good to see you. 
He speaks with an Australian accent, gets half-up and extends his hand. 
MARTIN ...and Burke Adler, the producer. 
BURKE So, what have you been doing with yourself... (checking resume) ...the last few years? 
MATT (to Burke) I'm real bad at interviews, so, if you don't mind, I'd really prefer to just read first. 
BURKE That's the way you want to do it? 
MATT Yes. 
BURKE Maybe we shouldn't even read. I'll just take your word that you're good. 
Matt smiles. 
BURKE No. I'm serious. There's all different ways. Did you know Woody Allen never reads actors? He just looks at them, feels around a little and then decides who he wants. That's his way. Doesn't hear them do a line. I also have a way. What I do is interview first-- then read--maybe do it all over again the next day. I call up people the actor has worked with--check him out. If he's famous, I do an opinion survey to test how much people like him. If he's not famous, I put him on tape and show it to everyone I can grab. I believe in screen tests; I believe in replacing if the dailies are bad, in cutting people out if the previews aren't there. Because I'm not doing movies for theaters where they serve cappucino in the lobby. I'm doing popcorn movies. You want to know what I like? Come to my house, look at my lamps... you won't find it in my movies. In my movies, you'll find out what I know. I know how to do detail. What I don't know, I discover. Yesterday we finished mixing a movie--the last scene is in a field of windmills which blows up and all the blades of these windmills slice through the air, one of which hits a four-story tank of propane gas. A humongous explosion scene. I kept on saying 'louder', and they finally said to me they couldn't go louder without distortion. We went louder. We had to discover a thing, a filter, but we went louder. I don't question doing these things. I do them. So if you want to know if it's okay to do it differently--not to talk--to just read first... I say... (pointing to John Earl) Ask him--he's the director. 
JOHN EARL Whatever. 
BURKE Okay, let's do it. Do you have any questions? 
MATT They only gave me these two pages. I'd like to give this my best shot. So if I could read the script and come back... 
BURKE This part works tomorrow. 
MATT Oh. Who will I be reading with? 
Burke indicates Martin. 
MATT (from his chair) Can I read from here? 
BURKE I want you to do it wherever you're comfortable, but I'd prefer it if you were comfortable standing up. 
Matt rises uncomfortably. A SECRETARY enters and hands a note to the director. 
JOHN EARL Time for my buns to have visitors. 
Matt looks astonished as the director leaves the room. 
BURKE (to Matt) Go ahead. 
MATT Go ahead? The director left. 
BURKE That's okay, he trusts me, uh... And we're just doing the first page. 
MARTIN (cueing him badly) 'Okay, darling Harry, here it is... If someone were breaking up with me, I'd like it short and sweet. What about you?' 
MATT (reading--showing pain) 'Incredibly drawn out...' 
MARTIN 'I can't take care of you right now. What am I, your mother?' 
MATT (intense) 'Well, what am I? Your duck?' 
As he gets into the scene he begins to experience some release of the desperate feelings he's been harboring. 
MATT (again) 'We've been together two years and you act like all you're doing is blowing away some feathers. So what I'm asking...' 
BURKE You didn't do the quack. 
MATT Huh? 
BURKE The stage direction says for him to quack. 
MATT I know, but why would he quack when someone's breaking up with him? 
BURKE Hopefully because it's funny. 
MATT This isn't a comedy. 
MALE D PERSON Who is he? 
CATHY Oh, I was auditing this acting course and he filled in teaching one night. He did a scene himself and he was awesome. For some reason, he can't get arrested. 
MALE D PERSON Yeah. He does seem to have a layer of loser dust on him. 
EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY 
Matt drives his faded, seven-year-old car into view. 
INT./EXT. MATT'S CAR - EARLY EVENING 
He looks off... sees something that arrests his interest and pulls to the curb. It's a curious sight. 
MATT'S POV 
Burke Adler, standing at a street corner, palpably in pain. He's trying to rein in his emotions, sucking in huge gulps of air... and, then, a wave of emotion gets the better of him as he looks at his watch. A sob escapes him--shocked that he's so close to tears on a public street corner, he battles for control... another sob as he looks to the heavens. 
ON MATT 
A split second to consider, then he's out of his car. 
FULL SHOT - THE STREET CORNER 
A flow of PEOPLE--in the foreground, the tortured figure of Burke Adler--in the background, Matt Hobbs, pauses before intruding. But Burke's spectacle is growing more public, sounds of anguish escape him. 
CLOSER SHOT - BURKE 
BURKE Oh, God... why? Why?... (louder) What am I going to do? 
And now he begins to dissassemble, openly crying--on the verge of a complete breakdown. Matt moves into frame, grabbing Burke, trying to provide him with an anchor. 
CLOSE ON MATT 
His face--his eyes providing a beacon of strength. 
MATT Hey. Hey! HEY!! 
ON BURKE 
Totally fucked-up, wild-eyed. As he witnesses his own state. 
BURKE Look at me. You'd think I was a writer. (his story of travail pours from him) I hired this kid as a production assistant. His father's a business manager... a few good clients. 
MATT What happened? 
BURKE He's been driving for me two weeks... all he has to do is pick me up on time... he's twenty minutes late and I have a test screening in the valley. Everybody's gone from the office. 
Burke flails at himself as Matt looks at him. 
MATT Is that it? You need a lift? 
BURKE Yeah. 
MATT I'm right over here. 
Matt starts to lead him back, then realizes he's alone, Burke having seen his car finally arrive. 
MATT'S POV 
Burke, berating the YOUNG DRIVER. Matt pauses, awed by the wild gesticulating--the few screamed words... 
BURKE (O.S.) ...Not just today... believe me, there's no way you'll ever make it... You are going to fail. Listen, listen-- I know about this; you are going to be a failure. 
CAMERA FOLLOWING MATT 
As he joins Burke and the young man, Burke turns to Matt. 
BURKE (to Matt) Let's get moving; you said you'd give me a lift. 
MATT What the hell are you talking about? Not in your car... I've got my own. 
BURKE I'll give you a hundred and twenty dollars to take me... and it will still be a favor. (to Young Man) Get out. Come on. (to Matt) Please. This is very important. 
The driver gets out. 
YOUNG MAN (final plea) A guy got shot on the freeway... Traffic's tied up. 
BURKE You should leave time for that kind of thing. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BURKE'S CAR 
BURKE I'm glad you came yourself instead of sending your staff. 
The boss is startled--jumps. BURKE eyes him... there must be some way to profit from these stolen moments with a powerful man. 
BURKE I wouldn't be surprised if tonight's screening is a monster. (emphatically) Could happen, right? 
STUDIO HEAD Sure. 
BURKE Okay. 
He moves back to Matt and Nan at the rear of the audience. 
BURKE (to Matt) Eisner just said he thinks the screening will be a monster. 
Strangely, Burke seems truly buoyed by the words of encouragement he himself manufactured. He moves down three rows and sits in an aisle seat just as the film opens with a series of violent explosions. 
CLOSE ON NAN 
NAN Please, God, let tonight give him peace. 
Incredibly, Burke turns and gestures to her that the sound of her small voice is interfering with the cacophony of his movie. Nan is clearly stricken by her lapse as she whispers to Matt. 
NAN We're short two card-counters, can you two help out? 
INT. MOVIE THEATER - 1:47:20 LATER 
We are seeing one of the final moments of the film. 
INT. WHOLESALE BUTCHER'S (THE FILM) - DAY 
As the muscular hero moves with stealth through the giant refrigerated meat door. He passes cows and dead men hanging from alternate hooks. Suddenly, he is attacked by the villain brandishing an electric meat dismembering tool. The hero ducks, the machine ripping apart hanging cow flesh. The hero grabs the only weapon he can find: a large piece of meat on a large bone, which he uses as a mace. He clubs the other man--then again--and again. Part of the audience is whooping and applauding. 
QUICK SHOT OF NAN 
Standing with Matt and Cathy. At the sound of the applause, Nan grins and mumbles with a connoisseur's knowledge. 
NAN Males, fifteen and under. 
BACK TO SCREEN 
Where the hero stands over the man whose face he has shattered, holding a club from which hang strings of meat. He is breathing heavily, and between breaths, states: 
HERO Sorry to bust your chops. 
General audience laughter. 
SERIES OF SHOTS ON NAN - FRONT OF AUDIENCE 
NAN If you'll just stay in your seats a few moments and fill out these cards for us... 
ON AISLES 
Matt and others handing out cards with pencils attached... Folks filling them out. As an ADOLESCENT MALE fills it out; PREVIEW CARD FILLS THE SCREEN as we view LIVE ACTION THROUGH IT. 
INT. THEATER MANAGER'S OFFICE 
An office meant for two, containing twenty counters. The counting is done with erasers rifling stacks, creating a sound, a MUSICAL RHYTHM, as the GROUP CAPTAIN calls out with gospel cadence. 
GROUP CAPTAIN Who has young males? Young women? Older males?... Older males?... 
Matt, his tally finished, squats on the floor, waiting. The Group Captain approaches. 
GROUP CAPTAIN Older males... older males? 
Matt looks blank. 
GROUP CAPTAIN (again) Older males... over 25? 
Matt now realizes that it is his category and hands over the older male cards and exits. 
INT. THEATER LOBBY - NIGHT 
Burke, prowling the lobby as audience stragglers leave and Studio Execs and Popcorn Development Staff wait. He looks off to see Matt and Nan chatting in another part of the lobby. 
ON MATT AND NAN 
As they arrive... Nan looks off to see the Group Captain approach. 
NAN How long since you've seen your daughter? 
MATT A little over two years. (on her look) My wife insisted on moving back to the Midwest--then I was in the Philippines on the mini-series and... 
NAN (suddenly and loudly) Oh, please. It's one thing being a son-of-a-bitch, but you don't have to be a stupid son-of-a-bitch. People move heaven and earth to see their kids. I don't care if she moved to Pluto, it's abandonment. 
NAN The definite recommends are way off for a score this high and, even for action-adventure, it's just too low for women. (Burke looks anguished) I'm sorry. 
He leans against the car for support. 
BURKE It was such a good score. 
NAN (extraordinarily sympathetic) I know... And, unfortunately, yesterday's tracking wasn't... (he reacts) I'm sorry... They just don't seem in the mood for action-adventure right... (he reacts) Sorry... May I tell you one more thing? (he looks up in anticipatory fear) I think it's so wonderful that you don't worry about even trying to act strong. 
BURKE Thanks. You want to eat something sometime? 
NAN I'm, uh... I'm blushing from head to foot. 
BURKE Good. I'll call you. 
As Burke moves to his car. He SEES the Group Captain paying Matt. 
GROUP CAPTAIN Thirty-two, thirty-three. 
Burke is looking at Matt with some surprise. 
BURKE You want to do this regularly for me? I was gonna offer, but I thought it would humiliate you. 
MATT (straight at him) I don't mind an occasional odd job. But I can't work tomorrow. I have to get my kid. 
As they get in the car, Burke has the front door open, about to get in--reconsiders, and gets in the rear door. 
BURKE Okay, I got the cards to look at--I think I'll ride back here. (to Nan) Maybe I'll drop by your place tomorrow. 
Matt gets behind the wheel, thereby ending the day as a full- fledged chauffeur. They drive off. 
EXT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
Burke and Nan returning from lunch. 
NAN So, thanks for lunch. I hope this leads to an evening date. Though I have to stay home with my daughter, Leslie, on Saturdays. 
BURKE (sincerely) Yeah, okay. You were very interesting to talk to. I swear to God. Honest. No kidding. You really were. 
NAN I believe you. (sincerely) And I was very surprised what you were like when you weren't working. There was absolutely no difference. You want to see where we do the tracking? 
BURKE (excited) Is it okay? 
INT. TRACKING ROOM - DAY 
The enter the room containing a maze of telephone cubbies with workers manning the phones. 
NAN Nobody ever wants to see how we do the polling, but they're like little starved puppies when the data comes in--running at you, scrambling to... 
Burke hardly hears. He is awed as if by a cathedral. 
VARIOUS WORKERS 1) How often do you go to the movies? 2) I'm going to describe a movie in one sentence and then ask you to rate it on a scale of... 
BURKE (as the workers continue) I love this. This is what counts and this is where you count it. 
NAN (soft and true) That's the same way I feel. 
BURKE You phone all over--you know what movies they're waiting to see, whether your TV spots are working. You know what the country thinks. 
WORKER ...what feelings do you have about Cher as a singer, an actress, or potential date... 
BURKE (again) ...and it's accurate. 
NAN Within six-point-eight percent. 
BURKE And you can't fix it... right? 
NAN No... no... Sometimes just for myself, I can't resist asking America a personal question. 
BURKE Like? 
NAN (simply) When do you feel more worthless-- mornings or afternoons? 
BURKE I gotta get back. 
They pause by a workers to say goodbye. 
WORKER Assume Michelle Pfeiffer is the woman-- which of these 67 actors would you most like to see her with... Patrick Swayze, Keanu Reeves, Dustin Hoffman, Johnny Dep, the guy from 'Major Dad'... 
NAN There's something I meant to tell you. You may have noticed something unusual about me. 
BURKE I gotta get back. 
NAN I could never find the right time to... 
JEANNIE No one will ever love me as much as you do. 
Matt and the Marshal exchange a look of mutual horror. 
BETH Good. Now, concentrate with all your muscles and remember everything I'm about to say to you... 
The Marshal and Matt shift uncomfortably. 
BETH Don't talk to strangers. They may be killers. Take your vitamins so the poison in the food can't hurt you. What else now? 
JEANNIE'S VOICE Teeth. 
BETH'S VOICE Right. Thank you. Brush right after you eat or your gums will start to bleed in your sleep and choke you. 
The Marshal and Matt can stand no more--they each call to her... "Beth... Beth... Mrs. Hobbs... Beth." She looks out and then walks to them. 
BETH What? I'm giving Jeannie her reminders. 
MATT Reminders?!? You can't say things like that to a little... 
BETH No. Don't. No. Don't dare. Don't criticize the way I mother or I think I'll start to scream and never st... 
MARSHAL Mrs. Hobbs. 
BETH (suddenly cheery) Yes. 
MARSHAL You know, I've been involved with this sort of thing for a long time. 
BETH You're not going to criticize me, are you? Not in front of him--because all he's done is send Jeannie these long, stupid letters. He doesn't even realize she can't read. He sends letters to someone who can't read. (laughs) It's almost funny. 
MATT I thought you'd read them to her. 
BETH (realizing) Oh. 
MARSHAL I'm not faulting you. You love your daughter and this is a very tough thing to go through. You feel guilty and caring and it all gets mixed up so that there's so much important stuff going down that there's no sure way of dealing with it, but the best thing you can do is just make sure you love her. 
BETH Typical cop talk. (on his look) But I understand what you're trying to say. Thank you. Can I have another minute with her? 
She returns to the doorway which still only provides us with glimpses as she SINGS, "DON'T TALK TO STRANGERS." The CAMERA MOVES down the hallway to INTRODUCE JEANNIE, trying to puzzle things out as she sits amongst a ridiculous number of suitcases. 
INT. SITTING ROOM - DAY 
As the two females who bear his name approach. Matt doesn't want a pregnant first moment with Jeannie, so he wards off silence with chatter. Unfortunately, he can only think of one word. 
MATT Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi. 
JEANNIE (laughing mirthlessly) Hello, monster-poop. 
MATT (to U.S. Marshal) She has her mother's sense of humor. 
Beth stops him with a look, then bends down. 
BETH Okay, love, Mommy's going to help others who need her for a few years, and you're going with Daddy as I explained. (to Marshal and Matt) We'll all have to help with the luggage. 
EXT. BETH'S HOUSE - DAY - LONG SHOT 
All three adults and Jeannie sharing the burden of the luggage as they move towards the cab. Mother and child hug. Matt struck by his child's plight, him. 
BETH (turning to Matt) Beginning now, you must give less value to your own happiness and well- being, then hopefully, you will reach the point where you give that no value whatsoever. Give her everything. There's no such thing as spoiling a child. 
MAN Even if you have to steal to do it? 
BETH You don't really want to mess with me, do you? 
MAN (simple honesty) No. 
MATT (to Jeannie) Okay, sweetie. We have to go. 
JEANNIE (to Beth) I want to go with you. 
BETH Can't, pretty-heart. I'm sorry. 
Tears fall from Jeannie's eyes. 
JEANNIE Not even a compromise? 
BETH (thinking) The compromise will be that you don't have to ride in back; you can ride up front with the driver... okay? 
MATT What? 
JEANNIE Okay. 
As Beth buckles Jeannie into the front seat, Matt gets in the back, alone, feeling preposterous. Beth nods to the Marshal, who surreptitiously handcuffs her. 
As Matt makes his way back, the Flight Attendant uses a hidden latch to open the door. Music building--then calming, the worst is over. Matt makes his way back to his seat, shell- shocked. The Attendant leans over him. 
FLIGHT ATTENDANT She wants to be alone. So we're upgrading her. 
He just nods. 
FULL SHOT 
Down the aisle--Jeannie lets an Attendant lead her as she peers back at her dad. 
EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
Matt carrying the sleeping child like a sack over his shoulder, also managing to hold onto all her luggage. 
INT. MATT'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
He has propped her on the sofa, a cotton nightgown out. He is unbuttoning her dress. She opens her eyes, the window's protective bars PLACING A SHADOW ACROSS HER FACE. She attempts to cover her fear. 
JEANNIE These are the wrong jammies. 
MATT Okay... so what do we do? 
Jeannie mimics him perfectly under her breath. She goes to an open suitcase and throws things on the floor until she finds the right jammies. 
JEANNIE Where do I sleep? 
MATT I have a sleeping bag and bed. Which one do you want? 
She surveys her pitiful choice; then points to the sleeping bag. 
JEANNIE That. 
She gets into it. He zips her up--then she says something remarkably unexpected. 
JEANNIE Hug. 
Amazed, Matt hugs her. A half-beat, then: 
JEANNIE (sharply) Let go. 
He does--then stands and looks down at her. She looks back, mocking his stare with one of her own. 
INT. BATHROOM - DAY 
Nan uncertainly enters this decidedly masculine bathroom. She is wearing an evening gown. The sun streams through the lush foliage outside a wall-sized window. MUSIC as she opens her purse and removes a pillbox; at one point lightly singing a snatch of lyric concerning the conflicts of being a single woman and a single mother--this while totally focused on the pills. 
INSERT - PILL BOX 
A major movie shot of this compartmentalized box. Each burrowed nest clearly labeled for the pill it contains: VITAMIN B, VITAMIN A, OSCILLOCOCCINUM, PROZAC, CALCIUM, TEST DRUG, ASPIRIN, XANAX, ETC. 
ON NAN 
MUSIC CONTINUES. She dials a phone number while arching her neck and swallowing one pill after another with little swigs of water. This process continuing, even as she speaks into the phone. 
NAN Monica--is Leslie up yet? Good. I didn't want you to get worried when you realized I wasn't there. I'm still with that man. I'll tell you about it later. But it's sure nice to have wobbly legs again. Look, today's recycling day for Leslie at school, so give her some empty cans... well, then dump some out for her! Tell her I had to leave real early for work and I'll pick her up at school myself to make up for it and we'll rent any cassette she wants for tonight. Thank you... Take good care. 
She hangs up. Another snatch of lyric as she bends to brush her teeth with her finger; prepares herself and opens the door to greet her new lover. 
INT. BURKE'S MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 
Burke sits on the edge of the bed, fearful. He sees her. 
BURKE Oh, I thought you took off in the middle of the night. 
She moves quickly to him. 
NAN No. I just had to call home. Is that why you're sad? 
BURKE No. It's Everett. This kid who used to work for me. He was always crazy to do his own movie. 
NAN (fearing worst) What happened? 
BURKE (very down) His movie not only opened to a three million dollar Friday--it's gotten great reviews. 
Nan is dumbfounded; still she puts a hand on him, actually consoling him for his hideous thought--Hollywood lovers: he, wrapped up with ill thoughts of others; she, feeling intimate, yet severely compromised. Cupid's work is done. 
BURKE (again) Listen. I'm tremendously worried about 'Ground Zero' because of the bad 'want to sees' you sent over. But that's just me being nervous over nothing, isn't it? 
NAN No. That's just you correctly assessing the situation. So stop being so hard on yourself. 
He eyes her, then: 
INT. MATT'S HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Burke walks tight little circles near Cathy and the rest of his staff while a few feet away Studio Executives stand in a cluster. There is a DISTANT, RHYTHMIC SHUFFLING SOUND. Burke walks past Cathy. 
BURKE Nothing good that happens tonight can make it worth feeling the way I do right now. Nothing. (turning to Cathy) What do you think? 
CATHY (nervously taking the plunge) To be honest, I had problems with 'Ground Zero.' But this 'People Get Hurt' one, while it might not be my exact, exact thing, I think will really work for an audience. It's so over the top, you have a great time. 
BURKE So you think it'll score big? 
CATHY Yes. 
INT. COUNTING ROOM - NIGHT 
Where we discover the SOURCE OF THE SOUND. Some twenty card- counters on the floor riffling through stacks of cards with erasers. Matt and Nan stand in the doorway. 
NAN Don't worry. My daughter used to throw fits in supermarkets when we first moved here. It's all so perfectly normal. Plus I know a great psychiatric children's group. 
MATT That's what breaks your heart. Jeannie's problem is that she's so down on herself. 
NAN Well, she's lucky to have a daddy who cares, believe me. 
MATT I don't know if lucky's the word. I'm hoping she's asleep when I get home so I won't have to deal with her... I'm actually afraid of my own kid. 
NAN Oh, my. I've had exactly that feeling and never said it out loud. See, there are men who talk my language and I'm just cursed that I'm not attracted to them because they are so nice they remind me of myself. 
Matt laughs. In the b.g., the counting is completed. 
GROUP CAPTAIN Excellents? 
GIRL COUNTER Seven. 
GROUP CAPTAIN Very goods? 
BOY COUNTER 
GROUP CAPTAIN Fairs? 
SECOND BOY CARD COUNTER 
GROUP CAPTAIN Poors? 
SECOND GIRL CARD COUNTER Just a second... (finishes counting) 
The Group Captain notes the figure on a sheet, walks to the doorway and hands it to Nan, who is still deep into conversation with Matt. She begins walking back to the theater without looking at the sheet in her hand. 
NAN I felt terrible about the way I blew up at you when I first met you. (before he can object) Please. 
FULL SHOT - THEATER AREA - NIGHT 
Burke and others waiting as Matt and Nan come to a stop some distance away. 
BURKE What are they doing? 
NAN I began taking anti-depressants when we moved here from Washington. I had some small reactions--sleeping 14 hours, no libido, I gained 17 pounds in nine days--that sort of thing. So they gave me pills to deal with the side effects. And then pills to deal with the side effects I was getting from those pills. All this besides the stuff the nutritionist was giving me. The combination formed some sort of potion so that I keep telling the truth. I don't have a choice. That's why I was so rude to you. 
MATT Your doctor says this? 
NAN Oh, yes. He's excited, but only because he sees glory for himself in it... See, ordinarily I wouldn't say that about my doctor, but I can't help it, it's the truth. He's monitoring me for a while longer before writing it up for this medical journal... 
Cathy has joined them. 
CATHY Burke's going crazy waiting for the score. 
NAN Coming. 
CATHY (to Matt) How are you, anyway? 
Matt shifts, figuring out his answer. 
CATHY (a small laugh) It's a tough one, huh? Me too. 
Nan looks down at the score. 
NAN Oh, my. Matt, I'd better drive him myself. 
She starts for Burke. 
ON BURKE AND OTHERS 
As Nan arrives and hands the Studio Executives the score, Burke looking over their shoulders. 
BURKE I can fix this... Get some narration written. . . (turning to Director) You'll cut 30 minutes. It will come out like butter. 
DIRECTOR We're only 77 minutes now... 
MILLIE Well, I wanted to put in people we had a shot at getting. 
MALE D PERSON (reading from list) F. Murray Abraham, Jeff Daniels, Ed Harris, John Lithgow, Rip Torn, Willem Dafoe, John Malkovich... For an action lead? 
MILLIE Could you at least take it one person at a time instead of... 
MALE D PERSON Okay. Let's play 'State the Obvious'... F. Murray Abraham has a nose as long as an Aspen ski line, Ed Harris is losing his hair, Joe Mantegna has never played the lead in a big movie... Willem Dafoe's teeth... Bob Hoskins looks fur bearing when he takes off his shirt... Malkovich... 
Matt can take it no more. He hears a loud voice coming from his own throat. He wigs out. 
MATT I can't stand it anymore. I can't. 
CATHY What's wrong? What happened? 
MATT What, in God's name, are you doing in this job you have? 
SHOT 
As they all start to answer at once. 
MATT I mean him. What, in God's name, do you know about casting? 
MALE D PERSON Me? 
Matt rises and walks towards the Male D Person. 
MATT Yes. What do you know? About anything? You don't even know you have a habit of touching your tongue with a finger like you want to lick yourself. (note: this is his little habit) Yet, you talk like you actually know something... So I want you to tell me... (louder) ...what you know. 
MALE D PERSON I'm not going to be drawn into this. 
MATT I've been an actor most of my life and this is the first time I've ever heard what the people calling the shots sound like when they're casting. So I really want to find out what, if anything, you know because what if nothing you know. 
FEMALE D PERSON I don't think the yelling is necessary. 
MATT Oh, you couldn't be more wrong. And I'm not talking to you. And I don't like you. 
MALE D PERSON How about you just mind your own business? 
Matt is very close to him--he shakes his chair. 
MATT You're minding my business. That's the problem... so, just tell me, what do you know? 
ON MALE D PERSON 
Matt's manner is threatening. The Male D Person looks around for some support and finds little... then Matt's tone changes... it's reasonable, almost seductive. 
MATT Just tell me and I'll shut up. 
MALE D PERSON (taking the bait) First of all, I've been going to movies since I was six, for God's sake... 
MATT What you know is the size of a schnozz. What you don't know is that these guys... (indicates list) ...are for real... 
ON CATHY 
She is a ricochet victim of every word Matt says, as he continues to indict the Male D Person and unknowingly reach her instead. His fury grows and becomes more complicated, containing an element of mourning. 
MATT (again) ...that they can make something happen, and even they don't know what that is till they get in there and play a little... they can make something happen that you can't even imagine... and it's not your fault, this stupidity... 'cause you're just this scared little prick who gets to say he's making movies, and the only thing they ever taught you is that what you like doesn't matter. 
MALE D PERSON (frightened) Thanks for understanding. 
The anger leaves Matt. He is depleted. 
MATT But isn't it almost good manners for you to feel a little shame? 
Cathy rises and begins to exit. 
MATT (again) I didn't mean you. 
CATHY If you didn't, you sure should have. 
She exits. The D Person's Colleagues have taken advantage of the beat to egg him on. 
MALE D PERSON You talk about manners--are you actually so bitter you don't realize how you acted just now? You're gone, pal. But at least know that we can't help that we're making it. 
MATT Oh, shit. You win. You got lucky with 'bitter.' That word just scares me to death. 
INT. STAIRWELL - DAY 
A distraught Cathy is walking down as Burke bounds up. 
BURKE You look down. 
CATHY I am. 
MATT'S VOICE Cathy? 
CATHY Yes. 
MATT'S VOICE I'll buzz you in. You've got to be quick and push hard. 
In the b.g. WE HEAR Jeannie loudly imploring her father to make the person wait till she's finished dressing. There is the SOUND OF the buzzer. Cathy hurls herself at the door a good four times before finally timing it right and gathering the necessary strength to spill through. 
INT. MATT'S HALLWAY - EVENING 
Cathy stands there overhearing the voices from inside. 
JEANNIE'S VOICE But why can't I stay just a little while? 
MATT'S VOICE Because this is a very special friend of Daddy's and I need privacy... Be fair... I let you wear that dress. 
Cathy knocks. Matt opens the door. 
MATT Hi. 
He steps aside so Cathy may enter... The place is tidied up. He has changed his clothes and Jeannie is wearing a lace dress, fit for a young princess, complete with flowered tiara and ballet slippers, with trailing blue ribbons at the heels and a velvet cape. 
MATT This is my daughter, Queen Elizabeth. Jeannie, this is Cathy. 
CATHY Hi... What a pretty dress. 
JEANNIE Thank you. That's nice. 
ON MATT 
Happy that Jeannie is behaving so well. 
CATHY Are you going to a party? 
JEANNIE (wildly hopeful) Am I going to a party, Dad? 
MATT (quickly) No. You're going next door. 
Jeannie is crest-fallen; for a horrible second, it looks as if she may start to wail... Matt moves into action with a pep talk. 
MATT Remember our compromise? You're going next door to Lucy's to play and you'll show the kids your dress and I'll come get you later and we'll go out someplace and I'll buy you anything you want for under seventeen dollars? 
JEANNIE I remember. 
She starts for the door, doubles back, and kisses a surprised Cathy full on the lips... The gesture is beautifully, even movingly carried off. It is totally false. 
JEANNIE (again to Cathy) Goodbye. I love you... 
CATHY (totally thrown) Well,... thank you. 
Jeannie is on the run... as she passes her father. 
MATT (sotto) Thanks. 
Jeannie nods acknowledgment as she flies past. 
OTHER ANGLE 
Favoring Cathy, Matt leans out the doorway until Jeannie is safely next door, then re-enters. 
CATHY What a little winner, huh? 
MATT (modestly) Oh...? 
CATHY (waving script) This is my favorite project. And it looks like we're going ahead with it. 
MATT (overlap) 'Mr. Deeds Goes to Town?' Oh, it's a remake... 
CATHY Well, come on, what's original? And this is a wonderful rewrite. It's funnier. 
MATT And there's a part in it for... 
CATHY Yes... Burke says I can test whoever I want. He wasn't even surprised when I mentioned you. So, if you could read this rewrite now and if you like it, we can make a test deal... (catching herself) they can make a test deal... we can tell them that they can make a test deal. (in explanation) I think it's important for me to steer clear of the business end. 
MATT Okay... which part? 
CATHY Longfellow Deeds. 
MATT Mr. Deeds? 
CATHY Who goes to town, yes. 
Matt takes this in... takes this miracle in. 
CATHY There are some mixed signals coming out of here, aren't there? (phone rings; she answers) Hi. Working... I can't write down a number now. Call me back. (to Matt) The script? 
MATT It's really good. I get a little nervous thinking about the opportunity. 
CATHY I want to hear everything. You want to go page by page? 
MATT If it's okay. I kind of work on these things in a private... it's just... it's a little better for me if I don't... 
CATHY (hurt) Okay. 
MATT Okay, let's do it. It won't kill me. 
CATHY Please. I understand. 
An uncertain beat and then she leans over and kisses him. A sound escapes him. They get up and begin walking to the bedroom. 
MATT I swear to God, I don't know which thing I want more, the sex or the conversation afterwards. 
CATHY (a smile) What do you mean? 
INT. CATHY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
As they enter and move to the bed where Matt starts undressing. 
MATT I mean I haven't been to bed with anyone since Jeannie got here... I haven't talked to anyone the way I need to. (cradling her breast) I haven't seen anything this beautiful. I haven't felt this good about life. I mean, I've been lonely, Cathy. 
CATHY (as he enters her) I'll tell you the truth, Matt. I've never felt more like turning my phone off. 
She twists her body gracefully, sexily towards the phone. 
MATT You can't shut the phone off. I left this number with Jeannie's sitter. 
CATHY I don't understand what you're worried about. 
MATT I'm not worried. But if the phone was off, I would worry. 
CATHY But I get a lot of calls. 
MATT Oh. 
CATHY I could put the machine on 'monitor,' but it's going to be... I don't know. 
MATT It will be okay. I think the most important thing is to stop talking about the phone. Turn it off, monitor, whatever. 
CATHY Okay. 
She twists toward the phone again--not quite so beautifully. 
OTHER ANGLE 
As she hits the "monitor" button, then turns back to him. 
CATHY You look so serious. 
MATT I am so serious. 
CATHY'S POV 
Matt totally there... this is major for him, then he does something sensitive... reads her concern over the depth of his need and interest and shrugs, indicating he can't help it. 
ON CATHY 
She likes him. 
THE COUPLE 
As they make love... their union thrown off kilter by the phone messages which roll in periodically as they thrust and sweat towards intimacy. 
YOUNGER MALE VOICE (broadly) Hi, Cathy... All my magazines came today... Read the new Vanity Fair, they take apart three people we hate... Spy is bad this month... Scorsese didn't get the Time cover, the plane crash did... ha, ha, ha... Why aren't you at the office? You know, I'm getting to the point where I prefer to reach people's machines... Bye. 
The love making continues as the calls continue. 
MALE D PERSON VOICE Cathy? Are you there? Hello... Are you there?? I'm going to count to ten. One, two, three... (then to someone passing his office) Did you go to the screening last night? What did you think? That makes two bombs in a row for her. (into phone) ...four, five, six... Pick up if you're there. I've got major gossip... major screwup. It could be good for us. 
Cathy, in the throes of sexual union, feeling a bit divided by the offer on the phone... she shakes it off. 
MATT Is this the kind of crap you listen to all day? 
CATHY Please, we're making love here. 
BURKE'S VOICE (incredibly depressed) If the TV show bombs, there's going to be a dance party on my grave. I don't give a crap. Nothing seems to have a point anymore. I'm really questioning everything... including action-adventure... Don't tell anyone I'm down. Even destroy the message tape. Don't tell anyone I said to destroy the message tape. Don't even give hints that there's something you can't tell them, but you wish you could... I'm losing it. I'm losing it. I'm losing it. Don't tell nobody. Don't tell nobody. Don't tell nobody. 
The sound of a hang up... the couple having more difficulty making love... 
CASTING PERSON Wow. 
INT. POPCORN PICTURES HALLWAY - SEVERAL HOURS LATER 
Matt making his way past the last of the kid stragglers. Cathy and Jeannie come running up to him. 
MATT It felt great... Everybody... 
JEANNIE Let me tell him, let me tell him, let me tell him... 
CATHY (highly annoyed) Let him finish! God! 
JEANNIE I want to tell him. 
CATHY If you wait one minute, I'll let you. 
Jeannie turns down her volume, but keeps repeating--incanting actually... "I can't wait to tell him... I can't wait to tell him... I can't wait to tell him..." 
MATT Anyway, the girl I did it with, by the way, she's really good; the director, the crew... they all thought we nailed it. 
CATHY (loving, sexy) Hey. 
JEANNIE (to Cathy) Now? 
Cathy nods and Jeannie begins to push Matt into Cathy's office for privacy. 
CATHY Wait till you hear this one. 
INT. CATHY'S OFFICE 
Jeannie sits her father down. This is the first time we've seen her joyful. Pure glee. 
JEANNIE Some lady asked me to go in a room and, you know, make believe and say stuff like we were playing a game... 
The words coming so fast that Jeannie lets loose with a bolt of SONG, as if taking a moment to catch her breath. Just a few sung lines proclaiming happiness. 
JEANNIE (again) And everybody went 'yea' and they said they wanted me to be on television. 
And the SUNG PHRASE. 
JEANNIE And give me money and have a teacher there and a person to braid my hair and color my face and give me clothes... 
The sung phrase again. 
ON MATT 
Stricken. 
MATT You wait here, Jeannie. 
INT. CATHY'S OUTER OFFICE - DAY 
Several people milling about... Matt eyes Cathy. We still hear Jeannie's muffled singing from the other side of the door. 
MATT (furious) I have to talk to you. 
EXT. POPCORN PICTURES - DAY 
As Matt and Cathy come into frame... Matt forcefully placing her with her back to the wall. She is not one to be pushed around. 
CATHY Don't! 
MATT What in hell is wrong with you? You actually think... 
CATHY I'm trying to hang in here but everything in me cuts off when somebody acts this way. 
MATT (continuing right along) ...that you can have my kid audition for a show without asking me. 
CATHY I didn't... She went for water and by the time she got back, they had offered her the part. Blame Burke, he was there... 
Matt takes this in. Just a millimeter underneath his fury is professional curiosity. 
MATT What's the part, anyway? 
CATHY The white kid in a multi-racial foster home with all these kids of varying ages. It's not a bad show. I sure can't wait to see the test. 
MATT How were they able to test her so fast? 
CATHY No. They offered it to her off the reading. I meant your test. 
MATT Oh... A child actor. Just what any kid with problems needs to straighten out--a series of her own... 
Cathy has nothing to offer. Matt begins leading her back. We HOLD ON THEIR BACKS and see the chink in Matt's confidence, hear the tightness in his voice as he asks: 
MATT Oh, that I was crazy. You always wear your hair back like that? 
She kisses him. We HEAR the director say, "Cut. Terrific, guys." The girl and Matt hug, no longer in character, as others come in to congratulate them. 
INT. SCREENING ROOM - DAY 
Ad-libbed enthusiasm... mostly about the girl... 
ON CATHY 
As the conversation about the girl grows more pointed... Cathy, impassive outwardly, recoiling inwardly. 
BURKE Okay, come on... let's have our creative meeting right here. 
MALE D PERSON Well, I'd sure go to bed with her. 
BURKE (professionally concurring) Very fuckable. 
MALE CASTING PERSON I'd sure fuck her. 
BURKE Okay... that's her... What about him? 
FEMALE D PERSON I think he's a very good to excellent actor--I do... (puzzled) But there's something... 
BURKE You wouldn't want to fuck him? 
FEMALE D PERSON Well, six years ago, maybe. 
CLAIRE I think he's talented and attractive. 
BURKE So you'd want to fuck him? 
CLAIRE He might be light in that area. 
CATHY The man is talented. If you get one of those directors who like actors, I think... 
BURKE A director can't make you hot if you're not hot. You'll end up with warm which is death. 
CATHY (defending Matt slightly) We laughed. 
BURKE Let me ask you something... Would you fuck him? 
CATHY (wearily) Everything doesn't boil down to... 
BURKE Let me stop you before you embarrass yourself. 
Burke rises and addresses his staff... the camera has his back in the foreground as it MOVES TOWARDS A RENDEZVOUS, Burke moving too as he continues... 
BURKE (again) We all can do our little lectures on what things boil down to. Everybody else here was professional enough to come out and say... I'd fuck her... I wouldn't fuck him... and you're ducking it... I want you to forget the acting stuff and totally focus on the issue. 
And now Burke and CAMERA meet up--the effect being that he is talking directly to us as he continues. 
BURKE (again) We do have some kind of responsibility to the audience... You just saw his screentest... so, if this is the first time you saw the guy, do you come out thinking to yourself and your girl friends, 'I'd sure go to bed with him; oh God, would he be something.' Would you, Cathy?... I'm being real here. 
CATHY No... 
BURKE Okay, so let's keep looking. 
They file out. Cathy gets up several beats later than the others... and follows them out, avoiding Nan's look. 
INT. CATHY'S OFFICE - EARLY EVENING 
She's been sitting here for quite a while... she can postpone no longer; she dials as one of her MOVIE SOUND TRACKS PLAYS in the background. 
CATHY (into phone) Hello. Matt... Hi... Okay, sure... 
She listens, waiting for him to quiet Jeannie. 
CATHY (again) Matt... (louder) Matt... Matt... Maybe it would be easier if I just said 'hi' to her... Hi, Jeannie... Yes, it's exciting... No, no. He's right, honey, they get somebody to read it to you. Now, put your dad on--it's important. No, first put your dad on... DAMN IT! (she waits a beat) ...Matt. Uh-huh, a few hours ago... They all... everyone liked your work, but I think they'll go for a name or something. 
She listens to him. He is hurt. Cathy, though, is also wrestling with her own internal struggles. She has betrayed him and is ashamed; in a strange way--terrified. She is, therefore, just a little irritable. 
CATHY (again) It's not a matter of doing it differently... they liked what you did, a lot... they laughed and... it's not you... it's them. (suddenly her breath comes weird) No, please. Don't thank me. If you feel like getting together later or anytime, call me, okay? You sound like you have your hands full right now... Goodbye. 
INT. MATT'S APT. - NIGHT 
As he hangs up... 
JEANNIE I wanted to talk to her again... I... 
She stops in mid-sentence, looking at her father. He is overcome... his energy failing to get him past this most awful moment in his life. She moves to his side. He starts to cry and, urgently seeking privacy, he moves quickly towards the bathroom, rubbing Jeannie in an instinctive gesture of reassurance. He closes the door. 
ON JEANNIE 
EXT. POPCORN PICTURES - DAY 
As the car arrives outside Popcorn Pictures, we can SEE some child actors and their parents arriving at the sound stage next door. 
MATT Are you going to need me? The kids are rehearsing and I'd like to take a look. 
BURKE Yeah, sure. I have to stay inside during lunch hours now anyway--that's when everybody returns my calls because they're trying to miss me. 
MATT (amazed) Is that true? 
BURKE (misinterpreting) Yeah. Thanks for the support. 
INT. TV STUDIO - DAY 
A row of parents standing near their child actors, adjusting them--not unlike handlers of racing Greyhounds. 
ON JEANNIE 
Seen from a distance--her father behind her. In the foreground, the mass of workers on the stage, It is, in effect, her POV, even though she is in the extreme background of the shot. We MOVE CLOSER to Jeannie and her father--even a bit behind them. Jeannie is scared. 
MATT I bet I know what it looks like to you. 
JEANNIE What? 
MATT A giant "find Waldo." 
Despite herself, she smiles at the reference, though her tone is a bit sarcastic. 
JEANNIE Very funny. 
PASSING VOICE Five minutes, children, then we need you for work on the set. 
JEANNIE Set? 
MATT That pretend living room, right over there. 
JEANNIE Okay. Set. Bye... 
MATT (holding her arm) Wait a second, Jeannie. Let Daddy give you a few tips here. 
JEANNIE (twisting away) Nooo. I've got to get to work. 
She breaks free, depriving Matt of the sweet and simple moment he wanted with her. She's one of the first ones on the set, other kids still hugging their parents. As Cathy comes up behind Matt, we can HEAR Jeannie who, having so small a trust for her father, needs to confirm what he just told her. 
JEANNIE (faintly) Is this the set? 
Matt reacts. 
PASSING VOICE Parents to Room Two, please. (as he goes by Matt) Parents to Room Two, please. 
Jeannie is watching. 
PASSING VOICE (again) We have to clear the set. 
Matt looks him off fiercely. The Passing Voice addresses the friendlier parents. 
PASSING VOICE (again) This way, parents. 
CATHY I'm glad I found you. 
MATT Hi. 
OTHER AREA - BEHIND GRANDSTAND SEATS 
As they walk. 
CATHY You holding up? What did you do last night after I called? 
MATT (as if teasing) What do you think I did? I cried like a baby. 
CATHY Okay. Okay. So you don't want to tell me. Be a tough guy. 
MATT Now you got it. 
CATHY I feel relieved just seeing you after all that stuff... whew... Okay. (preparing to go) Burke wants to... 
MATT You ever go out with him? 
Cathy is as simple and direct as she is embarrassed. 
CATHY Yes. 
MATT You slept with him? 
MATT It's your choice... But I'm not helping unless you try to understand as well as memorize. It will be fun. Come on. I know it's hard... 
JEANNIE Okay. Okay... 
MATT Anything to shut me up, huh? Okay, this little girl you're pretending to be... she can't be with her Mommy either, just like you, or her father... she has to stay in Rainbow House which is called that because... (Jeannie starts fidgeting) Jeannie... (she stops) ...because everyone's a different color... so when this little girl calls the black lady who takes care of all the children this terrible word... it's like the worst thing anybody can do... Come here. 
JEANNIE (approaching him) I don't want to do the 'I love you' again. 
MATT Yeah, I might have been working you too hard on that one. 
She is unable to resist muttering one sarcastic shot. 
JEANNIE Yeah. Why don't you do that with poopie Cathy? 
MATT (ignoring her) Now, did the director tell you how he wanted you to do it? 
JEANNIE He said to smile all the time almost and to talk... uh... 
MATT Faster? 
JEANNIE Yes. 
MATT Okay. We don't always get good directors, so it's important for us... 
JEANNIE Me. You're not in the show. 
MATT I'm referring to the family of actors, you little shithead. 
Jeannie doesn't know quite how to take the name calling. MUSIC IN... we're heading for a rendezvous with a dance as it CONTINUES ACROSS THE CUT TO: 
EXT. TV STAGE - EARLY MORNING 
Matt and Jeannie walking from the catering truck. They are eating ravenously. MUSIC CONTINUES... VERY JOYOUS. 
JEANNIE This is so good... 
MATT It's a breakfast burrito. It's what actors eat when they're working. 
JEANNIE (excited) Really. 
EXT. ROOF GARDEN - DAY 
MATT Now, let's work a little more. The most important acting you do is when you listen. You're worried about being able to cry when you're supposed to, right? 
JEANNIE Yes. So much. 
MATT Well, there are really only two ways to do it. Think of something that makes you really sad... or forget you're you and really forget you're pretending... 
JEANNIE How do I do that one? 
Matt reads from script. 
MATT (as a furious Black woman) 'Don't test me, child! I could eat you for lunch when I was your age and I'm a hell of a lot bigger now!' 
Jeannie looks afraid. 
MATT That's it... You just looked at me and acted right without even thinking. And there are games you can play to help you with this. Get up... (she does) Now, be my mirror... do exactly what I do... that's it... now, at a certain point, I'm going to become your mirror, but I'm not going to tell you when... you tell me... 
JEANNIE (hesitantly) Now? 
Matt nods. 
MATT (enthusiastically) Okay. We're going to make up words. The words aren't what matter now. 
JEANNIE I'm on a roof... 
MATT You're a great dad. 
JEANNIE You're a... (then stops; then smiles at him) 
This acting exercise of Chicago's Story Theater leads into the song, "BE MY MIRROR." As the song finishes, Matt and Jeannie are in the best spirits we've seen as an A.D. approaches. 
A.D. They need you. 
JEANNIE Okay. 
She takes the A.D.'s hand as Matt calls. 
MATT You're welcome. Don't mention it. 
INT. CATHY'S OFFICE - DAY 
Cathy is in mid conversation with Millie. Matt enters and boldly says his piece. 
Cathy going out of sight. 
ON MATT 
As he lets her go. 
INT. BURKE'S HOME - EARLY MORNING 
He is in bed, wearing a bathrobe, watching projection TV. 
FIRST VOICE ...number seven at the box office this week-end is... 
He switches channels. 
VOICE NUMBER TWO ...the two words are Tom Cruise. 
He switches channels. 
THIRD VOICE ...becoming the first lawyer to be awarded his own star on Hollywood Boule... 
He turns off the TV and crosses to the phone, allowing us to read the back of his bathrobe "ROCKY BALBOA." 
ANGLE ON BURKE 
He looks at the clock which reads "four a.m." and dials. 
BURKE Hello, Nan. I hope it's not too late to call. 
INT. NAN'S KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING 
She has been crying. 
BURKE I'd like another chance. 
NAN You only think you feel that way because you're on the verge of failure and you're without a core... 
BURKE See. Nobody else gets me. (a beat then) You wanna have a little sex, honey? 
NAN (a beat then) You know I've never hung up on anybody in my life... because what if the next thing they said solved everything... but I must end this conversation. 
Nan hangs up. Burke picks up a pocket electronic notepad from the bedstand and hits the scroll button. 
INSERT ELECTRONIC NOTEBOOK 
Names and phone numbers. 
ON BURKE 
He scrolls past numbers, considering, finding them wanting, so that, finally, he is scrolling the emptiness of his relationships. Now he considers one number and dials. 
INT. MATT'S APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING 
The phone rings. He picks it up. 
MATT Hello. 
INTERCUT BETWEEN THE TWO 
BURKE Hi, Matt, this is Burke. I'm sorry to bother you at home, but you know Nan... We were going out a little and I could use another guy's slant on what's just happened. 
MATT I don't think I can get into this... 
BURKE Why? Did I catch you at a bad time? 
MATT Worse. You caught me at a bad time you caused. 
BURKE Oh, you mean about the screentest. The whole room thought you did good work. 
MATT (reinventing irony) Thanks. 
BURKE Yeah, look, I'm not going to bother you about my thing. 
MATT Yeah. Okay, good night. 
INT. BURKE'S APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING 
As he hangs up. Looks down and turns off his phone number pocket computer. MUSIC RECALLS Prince's "There is Lonely." 
EXT. TV STUDIO - LATE AFTERNOON 
MUSIC SEGUES to recall "I'LL DO ANYTHING," as he drives past the line waiting to see RAINBOW HOUSE. 
(NOTE: FROM THIS POINT ON, THERE WILL BE AN UNDERCURRENT OF CHOREOGRAPHY TO CONCLUSION...) 
MATT (a beat, then) Give me a kiss. 
She does. 
INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT 
The cast of Rainbow House taking off their make-up, changing clothes, etc. This is more than high energy and excitement-- what's the opposite of trauma? All are off the wall with pleasure--the MUSICAL LIFE of the earlier dressing room scene returning--peaks of glee resulting in sung phrases as before. Jeannie enters and is immediately surrounded with love, attention and ad-libbed compliments about her work. In this glare of good will, Jeannie turns gloriously shy. 
BLACK LEAD ACTRESS Do you have any idea how special you were? (on Jeannie's goony reaction) That looks like a 'yes.' You've got to get dressed for the party. 
JEANNIE (overwhelmed) There's more? (then) What will I wear? 
BLACK LEAD ACTRESS Go to wardrobe; they'll give you anything you want. 
ON JEANNIE 
She moves to her dressing table--sits, looks in the mirror and giggles uncontrollably. 
INT. BACKSTAGE AREA - NIGHT 
Matt stands waiting for Jeannie. Nan approaches. 
NAN It didn't sell. 
MATT This show didn't sell?!? How do you know so fast? 
NAN It's the first time they had me do cards for a pilot and the demographics are all wrong for after nine o'clock. That's their only opening. 
Jeannie exits the make-up room aglow. She is wearing an incredibly stylish outfit and her hair is in an expertly done intricate braid. 
NAN Hi. I'm Nan. I'm a good friend of your Dad's. 
JEANNIE Hello, Nan. I'm Jeannie. Did you see it? 
NAN (to Jeannie) Yes, and you were wonderful. (aside to Matt) 89 percent likeability. (to Jeannie) And knowing that you were that good means so much more than the show not going. 
JEANNIE What? 
NAN Oh, no. (to Matt) I couldn't help it. 
JEANNIE What does she mean? (to Nan) What do you mean? (to Matt) What does she mean? (to Nan) What do you mean? 
MATT That they're not going to be doing any more of these shows right now-- but... 
JEANNIE (struck) Oh, my God. 
MATT Honey... 
JEANNIE And that means they're not going to have a party? 
MATT No. They're still having the party. 
JEANNIE (totally relieved) Oh... really?... good... can we stay late? 
To which Matt answers: 
MATT Honey, we're going to close the place. 
EXT. ROOF GARDEN - NIGHT 
The door to the roof garden opens and Jeannie enters--her dad behind her as she sees the party... the sparkling lights, the decorations, the other kids and MUSIC... our opening song... "WOW". 
ON JEANNIE 
As her father urges her into the flow. She passes Millie, who is dancing with the boy who held Jeannie's hand. 
MILLIE I cast him so he has to dance with me, but I'm sure he'd prefer dancing with you. 
BOY (to Jeannie) Come on. You know how? 
JEANNIE (angrily, with disdain) Yesssssss. 
They begin to dance with the others. MUSIC SLOWS IN TEMPO as we indicate TIME PASSAGE and: 
ANGLE ON BURKE AND MATT 
Perched on a ledge eyeing the party. 
BURKE I'm not comfortable with television anyway... it's too small... I'm much better at something with size... I don't do itzy. Even this movie of Cathy's--it's small... medium small. But with Stone it takes on a certain volume where I start to feel comfortable. (out of nowhere) I hate my life... (backtracking) ...in a way. I had a drink in my office. I'm confused. You're not saying anything. Is it because you're not listening or because I haven't stopped talking? 
MATT This Oliver Stone thing... does he really want me? 
BURKE Yeah. Oh, yeah. I forgot to say congratu... 
