The Ice Storm by James Schamus. Based on the novel by Rick Moody. First Draft Revised January 5, 1996 
EXT. TRAIN - DARKNESS BEFORE DAWN 
Suburban Connecticut, outside of New York City, 1973. The still after a terrible storm. Trees dripping, their branches torn, the air warming just before the break of a new day. The train lies dark and motionless, a few flashing yellow emergency lights up front, as a work crew removes debris from the track. 
INT. TRAIN. PRE-DAWN 
Various passengers, huddled uncomfortably, cold, asleep. 
On Paul Hood, 15-and-a-half, stoner-preppie look, hunched up in his seat under the faint emergency exit light. He reads his Fantastic Four comic book by the pale light of the emergency exit sign. 
Suddenly, the lights begin to flicker on and the hum of the train's engines returns. 
The conductor enters the car, blasting forth in his classic nasal voice. 
CONDUCTOR Good morning ladies and gentlemen -- 
He sounds like a baseball announcer. 
PASSENGERS (mumbling, ad lib) What ladies? 
CONDUCTOR -- this train originating at New York's Grand Central Station is back in service - next stop will be New Canaan, Connecticut. New Canaan, Connecticut, next stop! 
He moves on to the next car. 
The train begins to move. 
Paul rubs his elbow against the window and looks out into the still-dark early morning. 
He looks back down at his comic book. 
On the comic book: Reed Richards (also known as Stretch) has zapped his young son with a cosmic ray gun to neutralize the destructive energy that Annihilus has implanted in him. 
The Thing, Medusa, Flame, and Richards' wife Sue Storm look on, stunned. "THEN YOU'VE TURNED HIM INTO A VEGETABLE. YOUR OWN SON." "DON'T YOU SEE, SUE? HE WAS TOO POWERFUL... IF HIS ENERGY HAD CONTINUED TO BUILD, HE WOULD HAVE DESTROYED THE WQRLD!" 
Paul looks up again, thinking. 
PAUL (V.O.) In issue number 141 of The Fantastic Four, published in November 1973, Reed Richards has to use his anti-matter weapon on his own son, who Annihilus has turned into a human atom bomb. His son is the result of Richards' coupling with the earthling Sue Storm, and the problem is that the cosmic rays that infused Richards and the rest of the Fantastic Four on their aborted moon mission have made young Franklin a volatile mixture of matter and anti-matter. 
EXT. TRAIN BRIDGE. PRE-DAWN 
The train moves slowly through a suburban, semi-forested landscape. 
PAUL (V.O.) And that's what it is to come from a family, if you analyze it closely. Each of them is negative matter for the other ones. And that's what dying is -- dying is when your family, which is in fact your personal negative matter from which you emerge -- it's when the family takes you back, thus hurling you back into negative space... 
INT. TRAIN. CONT'D. 
On Paul, as the sun breaks over the horizon. His face glows warmly in the yellow light. He looks down idly at the comic book. 
PAUL (V.O.) So it's a paradox -- the closer you're drawn back in, the further into the void you're thrown. 
EXT. CONRAIL STATION. EARLY MORNING 
The train slowly pulls in. 
The train doors open, and Paul, weary from the long night, emerges. He sees his family gathered at the other end of the platform -- Ben, 40, a bit worse for wear but still retaining traces of his boyish looks; Elena, 37, distant and elegant even in her oversized sweater; and Wendy, 14, a sullen suburban Lolita. 
He pauses, regarding them. 
They stand, silent, even dignified, awaiting him. 
EXT. ST. PETER'S SCHOOL. MORNING 
To establish. A typical New England prep school. 
INT. PAUL AND FRANCIS'S DORM ROOM. MORNING 
Cramped, a mess, but quaint. Paul shares the room with Francis Davenport IV, a dissolute, smart-ass son of money. 
Paul's alarm clock rings. He slams his hand down on it and jumps out of bed, fully clothed in his rumpled preppie uniform of frayed khakis, loose tie, shirt with one tail untucked in, etc. Across the room, Francis beckons from his desk, as he finishes loading up a four-foot-high bong. 
FRANCIS Arise and shine, young Hood. 
PAUL I hope you changed the water in that bong from last night. 
FRANCIS (finishing a hit) The water, as you call it, is a special mixture of amaretto and Ben&Ben blended for just the exact chemical interaction with the last of our precious Thai stick. 
Paul reluctantly walks over and takes a hit. He coughs, spewing uninhaled smoke. 
LATER: 
INT. SCHOOL PARTY. CONT'D 
Paul wanders, stoned, through the party. He sees Libbets from across the room. She seems to be surrounded by friends. 
INT. PARTY. CONT'D 
Paul has cornered Libbets and is talking over the music. There are just a few people left, most of them making out with each other. 
PAUL (stoned) -- because I've been reading Kerouac and Ginsberg and those guys were creating beat culture and traveling and sleeping wherever, and, of course, with all kinds of people, but when you read carefully the various contemporary accounts of their lives, and, uh, these guys didn't bathe much, I mean they were really filthy, with like genital crabs, lice, exceptionally strong body odor... 
Libbets smiles through her yawn. 
EXT. SCHOOL BENCH. NIGHT 
Paul sits alone on the bench, freezing cold, eating a donut. Some kids from across the lawn yell good-night to him. 
INT. DORM ROOM. EVENING. 
Paul is at his desk. Francis enters, wrapped in a towel, fresh from the shower. 
PAUL How can you do that man? 
FRANCIS Do what? 
PAUL Sleep all day. I mean, look, it's already getting dark outside, and you're just getting up. 
FRANCIS (beat) Um, Libbets Casey. 
PAUL What? 
FRANCIS Aha! I could sense the vibe. 
PAUL What do you mean? 
FRANCIS Am I right or am I right? 
PAUL Shit. You're not planning -- 
FRANCIS My man, I speak to you solely as a comrade in arms offering unconditional aid. I've been giving this one a lot of thought, and I believe that the two of you together might just reach that higher ground that -- 
A knock at the door. 
STUDENT  (O.S.) Hood, telephone. 
Paul rolls off his bed, opens the door. 
PAUL Don't mess with Libbets. I mean it! 
INT. DORM HALLWAY. NIGHT 
Paul walks to the pay phone at the end of the hall. 
PAUL Hello? 
INTERCUT - HOOD HOUSEHOLD. NIGHT 
It's a modern (shag carpet, geometric-patterned wallpaper, etc.) suburban house. 
Ben Hood talks on the phone, a drink in his hand. 
BEN Paul? 
In the background, we can see Wendy watching Richard Nixon on TV. 
PAUL Hi dad. 
BEN Hey guy. Things ok up there? You all right? 
PAUL I'm fine dad. 
BEN Well good. Just confirming. You'll be on the 3:50 Wednesday afternoon. 
PAUL Well dad, actually I thought I'd take the morning train on Thanksgiving -- got a lot of studying, papers, you know, lab experiments -- 
BEN Lab experiments? Right smart guy -- Paul, you know your mother's gonna be disappointed not to see more of you -- In fact, let me make this more than a simple request guy, I think you should... 
IN THE BACKGROUND: 
BEN Hey! 
Wendy jumps into bed and under the covers, pulling them up over her head. He stands over her, looking down at the crumpled pile of sheet and blanket. 
BEN (CONT'D) (softening) Hey, kiddo. Sleep well, huh. 
He places his hand where her cheek should be, and caresses the sheet. 
WENDY (without pulling the sheet down, but nicely) Good-night dad. 
BEN Good night kiddo. 
Ben turns to the door, where he sees a silent Elena standing in her nightgown, a slight smile on her face. 
INT. HOOD BEDROOM. NIGHT 
Elena is sitting cross-legged, eyes closed, on her side of the bed. We hear the toilet flush from the master bath, and see Ben emerge in his boxers. He pauses in front of the bed, looking at Elena. 
ELENA (without opening her eyes) You're staring at me. 
BEN I wasn't star-- 
ELENA I've been thinking, Ben, about Wendy. I was going to ask if she'd come with me sometime to meet Dr. Woolens. 
BEN That shrink -- the one you always wanted me to see? I thought you dropped him. 
ELENA I did, but -- somebody should probably see her, talk to her... You think she's ok? 
BEN Why shouldn't she be? 
Elena just gives him a look, more sad than angry. 
BEN (CONT'D) (pause) Then again, why should she be? I mean with us, with our... 
ELENA So maybe you'll come too? 
BEN Oh not again Elena! If we've got problems, why can't you just come out and talk about them. 
ELENA It's you Ben who needs to talk. I've had my say, and I'm waiting to hear back from you. 
BEN Yeah but Elena, even you don't believe all that "I'm OK. You're OK" stuff you keep babbling about -- you say so yourself. I've been all ears for about ten years now on his subject, and -- 
ELENA -- And you haven't moved out yet. It's because you're too lazy, Ben. Too scared or lazy to either deal with us or simply make a decision -- 
BEN Elena. 
Silence. 
ELENA (sighing) Sleep in the study? Please. 
Ben picks up a pillow and walks out, pausing wistfully at the door. 
BEN Good night. 
ELENA Good night. 
INT. WENDY'S ROOM. NIGHT 
Wendy hears her parents' door close and sees a strip of light illuminate under her door as the hall light goes on, then off. 
EXT. MANHATTAN OFFICE BUILDING. DAY 
A nondescript, cleanly "modern" building. Engraved on the doors: "Shackley and Schwimmer, Securities Brokerage - Established 1964" 
INT. SHACKLEY AND SCHWIMMER CONFERENCE ROOM. DAY 
Ben, seated, is finishing a brief presentation to a small group of men, which includes George Clair, mid-thirties, unctuously handsome. 
BEN But what, exactly, is stagflation, this mixture of inflation and stagnation, and how should we in the securities industry understand and accommodate it? Well -- and I hope I'm not out of bounds here - think of the money supply as a large male organ, continuously inflating, and yet, the societal vaginal cavity simply wants more. As the vicious circle of higher returns without real satisfaction continues, the money-organ may seem to be in demand, but in fact even the most inflated capital is unwanted. This is why I suggest that while we engage this mawing abyss for the highest returns, we at the same time fantasize, so to speak, of the safe harbor of capital appreciation. 
The aging boss nods agreement. 
SHACKLEY (more or less mumbling) Brilliant, brilliant. 
George Clair just grins. 
INT. BEN HOOD'S OFFICE. DAY 
Ben is gathering papers, readying to leave. He looks up to see George Clair in his doorway. 
Ben ponders, as the food arrives. 
BEN (weakly) But... 
HAROLD But what? 
BEN But I -- well maybe I love her. Elena. 
His father rolls his eyes and stabs his salad with a fork. 
HAROLD Christ Ben! Make up your mind and eat your lunch. 
INT. BOOK STORE. DAY 
Elena browses the self-help section. A longish-haired, slightly gone-to-seed, but still handsome clergyman pauses next to her. He's wearing an ecclesiastical collar and bell bottoms. 
He pulls out a copy of Me, Myself and I, glancing again at Elena. 
PHILIP Elena. Elena Hood, am I right? 
ELENA Yes. 
PHILIP Reverend Edwards. Philip Edwards. You came by and checked out the congregation a couple of times last year. 
ELENA Yes, it was -- I ended up -- 
PHILIP (smiling) No need to make excuses -- 
EXT. NEW CANAAN HIGH SCHOOL FIELD. DAY 
A cool gray afternoon. A group of boys are playing flag football on the field, while two groups of girls are gathered underneath the bleachers at either end, warily smoking c1garettes. 
Wendy, Beth, and a couple of other girls are gathered in one group. 
BETH (referring to one of the girls gathered in the other group) She said you licked Dave Brewster's weenie in the third floor bathroom. 
WENDY She's a liar. I wouldn't touch Dave Brewster's dick if you paid me. It's probably crawling with v.d. after he put it in her, which he did. 
The conversation peters out at this point, as the two groups of girls give each other the hairy eyeball from afar. 
Wendy looks through from beneath the bleacher seats onto the field where the boys are playing. 
A group of boys break from a huddle, Mikey among them. 
The quarterback takes the hike and Mikey runs out for a pass. As he runs, his breathing increases in volume, filling his ears, and transforming into the humming sound he'd heard before. 
The quarterback spots him and throws a long one. 
He runs in an oblivion of beautiful white sound. 
The ball drops next to him as he continues, in a world of his own, to run. 
Suddenly, the humming ends and he stops and turns around, to see all the other kids just standing there looking at him. One of them makes a pot-smoking gesture, as if that's the explanation. 
MIKEY (as he returns to the group, ball in hand) Did anybody hear that? 
The other kids snicker. Wendy looks on, and catches Mikey's eye for a fleeting moment. 
WENDY I gotta go. 
She takes hold of her bicycle and pushes off. 
INT. COFFEE SHOP. DAY 
Elena and Philip are seated at a booth. 
PHILIP It's been a tremendously transformative year -- maybe a little controversial of course, but we're breaking down the old Unitarian barriers -- 
ELENA I suppose my reluctance was the group aspect of it -- I've never been much of a joiner, although I still consider myself a somewhat religious person -- 
PHILIP Well I of course flatter myself that our church is not exactly what most people would call organized religion -- at times it's the disorganization that's liberating -- and of course I've begun to minister much more in what one might call therapeutic environments, in small groups, and one on one, couples -- 
Elena looks outside the window, and sees Wendy speed past on her bicycle. 
ELENA (cutting him off) My daughter. I haven't been on a bike for years. (still not really looking at him) When was the last time you rode a bike? 
PHILIP (a bit taken aback by the abrupt topic change) They say you never forget. 
ELENA (jarred back to his presence) Forget what? 
EXT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. DAY 
To establish. 
INT. WILLIAMS GUEST ROOM. DAY 
A couple are in the final throes of lovemaking. We see Janey Williams's face, more or less enjoying the proceedings. The man gives a final heave and groan, and rolls off to reveal himself to be -- Ben Hood. 
JUMP CUT TO: 
Janey smokes a cigarette. Ben is babbling. 
BEN We were golfing, and you know, golfing to me is something I'm supposed to enjoy, and I was on the goddam golf team in college, so it's something one would assume I do well -- I used to do well -- but basically these days golfing for me is like hoeing, or plowing. 
Janey smiles briefly at this. 
BEN (CONT'D) It's like farming. I am basically chewing up large tracts of expensively landscaped scenery with overpriced sticks, and George Clair has obviously, in the mere two years since he joined the firm, he has obviously been taking secret lessons with a golf pro, and I assume the entirety of his disposable income has been devoted to humiliating me on the golf course. And the guy talks - incessantly -- throughout the entirety of the miserable 18 holes - on topics that are the supposed domain of my department -- 
JANEY Ben-- 
BEN Yeah? 
JANEY (gently) You're boring me. I have a husband. I don't particularly feel the need for another. 
BEN You have a point there. That's a very good point. We're having an affair. Right. An explicitly sexual relationship. Your needs. My needs. You're absolutely right. 
JANEY You should probably get dressed. The boys will be home soon. 
BEN Gotcha. 
She wraps a blanket around herself and gets up. 
EXT. BACK OF WILLIAMS HOUSE. EVENING 
Ben cautiously walks out he back door and heads for the side gate. 
INT. HOOD KITCHEN. EVENING 
Wendy enters the house as Elena is finishing supper preparations. 
WENDY Hi mom. 
ELENA Hi Wendy. 
Without waiting for instructions, Wendy starts pulling out plates and silverware and setting the table. 
ELENA (CONT'D) I saw you on your bike today. 
WENDY With Mikey? 
ELENA Who? 
WENDY Nobody. 
ELENA Mikey Williams? 
WENDY We were just riding around. 
Elena takes this in. 
ELENA Well, you looked very -- free -- when I saw you. 
Wendy continues setting the table. 
ELENA (CONT'D) Weightless almost -- as if I were seeing my own memories of being a girl. There was something internal about it. 
WENDY Mom. Are you ok? 
ELENA Wendy, of course. I'm sorry. You must think I'm ripe to be checked into Silver Meadows. 
WENDY You're not a psycho! 
ELENA The people at Silver Meadows aren't psychos. 
WENDY I know. They're rich drug addicts and celebrities. When I saw James Taylor there, and -- 
ELENA We've been through this Wendy James Taylor was actually at that clinic up near Boston. 
WENDY Well, I saw what I saw, and if you don't want to believe me -- 
SANDY Yeah. But I just need some help with my homework. 
A knock at the door. Jim stands in the doorway with a suitcase in his hand. 
JIM Hey guys, I'm back. 
MIKEY (honestly confused) You were gone? 
Sandy looks at Mikey as if pondering a lost cause. 
JIM (a look of disappointment) Yeah Mikey. Yep, I was in Houston, working on some great new ideas about silicon, which comes from sand, very conductive. How you guys doing? How's school? 
Mikey's still flustered. 
MIKEY Uh, I dunno. OK I guess. 
JIM Hmm. Alright! 
He walks off. 
SANDY You really didn't notice? Man, he's been gone for three days. 
INT. WILLIAMS BEDROOM. NIGHT 
Janey is reading, still dressed, on the bed. She nods to Jim as he enters with his suitcase. 
JANEY Good trip? 
He nods and puts his suitcase down, then sits heavily on the side of the bed. 
JIM (as he sits) You bet. 
It turns out it's a water bed, and his weight creates a wave that nearly pushes Janey off her edge of the bed. 
JANEY Jesus, Jim! 
JIM (jumping up, which only creates another wave) Sorry honey. Hell, we've got to trade this thing in for a normal bed. 
JANEY Just be careful. 
JIM (as he begins to unpack) You notice anything with Mikey lately? The kid seemed a little out of it tonight, eh? 
JANEY Tonight? Jim, he's been out of it since he was born. 
JIM Hell, I guess he takes after me, huh? 
He laughs to himself. 
She gives him a look. 
INT. COFFEE SHOP. DAY 
Elena and Philip Edwards are having coffee again. 
PHILIP In many ways, the church-bound tradition of the father, son, and holy ghost is simply a version of the parent-child-adult triad within us all. It's a primitive set of symbols for our inner psychology. 
ELENA You're saying that Christ is the child, and -- 
PHILIP -- And God the angry parent, and the Spirit the hope of an integrated adult self. 
ELENA All well and good -- But tell me again what is it exactly that you believe in? 
PHILIP You ask what the point is? 
ELENA That's right. 
PHILIP Self-realization. Ministering to help people reach their fullest potential. Would you believe me if I told you I want you to see yourself reach your fullest potential and self-realization? 
ELENA I would say it sounds like you're trying to get me into bed. 
PHILIP If that's a potential you see yourself fulfilling... I mean... (flustered) My, I sound a bit -- 
ELENA I'm sorry. That was stupid of me. I didn't mean to be so rude. 
PHILIP You weren't. You actually, for some reason, you have the effect on me of making me feel just a tiny bit ashamed of myself. 
ELENA But not too ashamed. 
PHILIP (smiling) Now you are being rude. 
INT. HOOD GARAGE. DAY 
Elena enters the garage from the kitchen and turns the light on. 
She finds an old bicycle and pulls it out. 
EXT. SUBURBAN STREETS. DAY 
Elena rides her bike into town, infused with the girlish sense of freedom she imagined for her daughter. 
Suddenly, there's a pop -- a tire is blown out. She slows down and gets off the bike. As she bends to look at the wheel, a station wagon slows near her. The driver's side window rolls open. It's Janey Williams. 
JANEY Need a lift? 
INT. JANEY'S CAR. DAY 
Elena sits in the passenger seat. The two women are obviously uncomfortable with each other. 
Silence. 
ELENA Thanks again. For the dinner. 
JANEY Thanks for eating it. I don't know why I even pretend I can cook. 
ELENA I used to know how to cook. 
JANEY It's not like we're too busy. 
They smile, barely. 
ELENA I'm thinking of going back to school. 
JANEY Social work? 
ELENA How'd you know? 
JANEY Educated guess. 
ELENA I'm that predictable? No, you don't have to answer that. It's just that with the kids almost grown -- 
JANEY You don't have to apologize. I'm too much of a cynic. You actually seem to be trying to figure things out -- don't mind me. 
She pulls the car over. 
EXT. FIVE AND DIME STORE. DAY 
Janey's car pulls to the curb. 
INT. CAR. CONT'D 
JANEY Here you are. 
ELENA (opening her door) Thanks for the lift. If the bike's any bother-- 
JANEY None at all. I'll leave it in front of your garage. Happy Thanksgiving. 
EXT. FIVE AND DIME. CONT'D 
Elena watches the car pull away. She turns and walks into the store. 
INT. FIVE AND DIME. DAY 
Elena moves through the aisles, putting various sundries into a basket. 
She pauses in front of the lipsticks. 
She picks up a lipstick, looks at it, then quietly places it in her pocket. 
We see her reflection in the security mirror above the aisle, as she quickly exits the store. 
The middle-aged lady behind the counter watches her leave. 
EXT. FIVE AND DIME. DAY 
In a wide shot, from across the street, we see Elena leave the store, followed by the shopkeeper who runs behind her and taps her on the shoulder. They converse for a minute, and Elena is accompanied back into the store. 
Through the store windows we see her take the lipstick out of her purse. She's obviously distraught -- offering to pay, talking quickly, etc. The shopkeeper is holding a telephone, not yet decided on whether to call her in. 
PAUL (V.O.) To find yourself in the Negative Zone, as the Fantastic Four often do, means that all everyday assumptions are inverted -- even the invisible girl herself becomes visible, and so she loses the last semblance of her power. 
ELENA Leave it -- I'll wash it for you. 
He looks at her ruefully. 
EXT. HOOD STREET. DAY 
Wendy walks and Mikey rides along. 
WENDY You have to follow me? 
MIKEY I dunno. I -- 
They're now in front of the Hood's house. 
EXT. HOOD HOUSE. DAY 
Ben exits the house in a rush, and sees Wendy and Mikey on the street in front. 
BEN Hey there Mikey, how's business? 
CONTINUED: 85 
MIKEY (tripping off of his bike) Business? Uh, I dunno. 
Ben grimaces, fiddles for his car keys. 
As Mikey remounts and rides off, Wendy passes her father on the driveway. 
BEN I'm picking up Paul at the station - want to come? 
WENDY Nah. 
BEN What you been up to? 
WENDY Nothing. 
INT. HOOD LIVING ROOM. DAY 
Wendy enters the house and climbs the stairs. 
She sees the crumpled bed sheets in her parents' room and hears Elena in the shower. 
EXT. NEW CANAAN STATION. DAY 
Paul walks to the parking lot with his father, who carries his duffel bag. 
EXT. STREETS. DAY 
Ben's car heading back to the house with Paul. 
INT. HOOD CAR. DAY 
BEN So how's school treating you? 
PAUL All right. 
BEN Classes? 
PAUL Good. 
BEN Grades? 
PAUL Fine. 
BEN Anyone special? You know... 
PAUL Hnnn. 
BEN Well it's good to see you -- we miss you around the house and all, but this St. Peter's, it's top of the line, eh? 
PAUL Yeah. 
BEN You know Paul, I've been thinking, maybe this is as good a time as any to have a little talk, you know, about -- well -- 
He makes a sharp turn. Paul puts his arms up on the dashboard to steady himself. 
PAUL (nervous) About? 
BEN Well, the whole gamut. Facts of life and all. Some fatherly advice, because, I tell you, there's things happening that you're probably old enough... well... (pause) For example, on the self-abuse front -- now this is important - it's not advisable to do it in the shower -- it wastes water and electricity and because we all expect you to be doing it there in any case -- and, um, not onto the linen, and not on your sister's underwear or any clothing belonging to your mother -- 
The shower is running, but Paul is standing by the open window, puffing on a joint and trying to blow the smoke outside. 
PAUL I'll be out in a second. 
Ben walks back to the bedroom, smirking. 
BEN Sure you will. 
INT. HOOD DINING ROOM. DAY 
One by one, each member of the Hood carried in a final item to place on the overstuffed Thanksgiving table. Then, one by one, they each silently take their seats. 
They look over the table. No one moves. 
BEN Well, it's great we can all be together. And this Thanksgiving, no hysteria, no yelling, especially with grandpa not here, although we miss him. So let's do it right and actually, Wendy, why don't you say grace. You used to love to say grace, remember. 
Wendy grimaces, as they all bow their heads slightly. 
WENDY Dear Lord, thank you for Thanksgiving, and for letting us white people kill all the Indians... 
Everyone looks up. 
WENDY (CONT'D) ... and steal their tribal lands and stuff ourselves like pigs 
Mutterings and groans: "Wendy!" "For Christ's sake" etc. 
WENDY (CONT'D) ... while children in Africa and Asia are napalmed and -- 
BEN Jesus all right enough! 
They all unceremoniously start to dig in. 
FADE OUT: 
INT. WILLIAMS GUEST ROOM. DAY 
Janey Williams is pouring Benjamin Hood a drink from a bottle of vodka. Benjamin is already unbuttoned and shoeless; Janey still fully dressed. 
JANEY Here. 
BEN After the Thanksgiving I had, I need it. You having one? 
JANEY In a bit. 
She sits next to him, he kisses the back of her neck. 
BEN You know, I think Elena might suspect something. 
Janey gives him a rather contemptuous look. 
BEN (CONT'D) (thinking aloud) Maybe it's all for the better, you know? Yesterday, at dinner, well, she hasn't said anything... has she acted funny to you, I mean, have you noticed anything? 
JANEY (almost ironic) Have I noticed anything? I'm not married to her Benjamin, you are. I think you've probably a better vantage point from which to observe her. 
BEN Yeah, but, I -- I've been working a lot lately, and -- No, that's not it. I guess we've just been on the verge of saying something, whatever it is, just saying something to each other. On the verge. 
Janey gets up. 
JANEY I'll be back. 
Benjamin looks at her quizzically. 
BEN Huh? 
JANEY Birth control. 
BEN Right. Gotcha. 
She leaves the room. 
He leans back onto the bed. Sits back up. Takes a sip of vodka. Puts the glass down. Takes his socks off. He's now in just his jockey shorts and shirt. 
Faintly, he hears a door close. The front door? 
He takes another sip. 
He hears another sound. 
BEN (CONT'D) Janey? 
MIKEY Wendy! 
She puts the mask on. 
WENDY (from behind the mask) I won't take my pants off. But I'll touch it. That's as far as it goes. 
Mikey looks totally confused. 
Remaining fully clothed, Wendy loosens Mike's belt, showing no excitement from behind her mask, and lets him climb on top of her for a dry hump. 
Just then, a shaft of light hits them from the top of the stairs -- Ben towers above them, looking down. 
Mikey flips over immediately and pulls his clothes together, grabbing a TV Guide as Wendy stands up, the mask still on. 
As Ben descends Mikey, still stuffing his shirt-tail into his pants, pretends to flip through the TV Guide. 
MIKEY (muttering) When worlds collide. 
WENDY Huh? 
MIKEY 4:30 movie. When Worlds Collide. 
Ben arrives, folds his arms. 
BEN What the hell are you kids doing down here? 
WENDY What do you think we're doing, dad? 
BEN What do I think? I think you're probably touching each other. I think you're touching that reckless jerk-off, for god's sake, and I think he's trying to get into your slacks. I think, at fourteen years of age, that you're getting ready to give up your girlhood -- 
MIKEY Hey, hang on there, Mr. Hood -- 
BEN Don't you direct a single word at me, Mikey. I don't want to hear it. I'll be speaking with your parents about this situation very soon. Bet your ass on that, son. Young lady? 
WENDY Talking to me, dad? 
BEN Who else would I be talking to? And take that thing off! 
WENDY (pulling off the mask) Well, then forget all this stern dad stuff. 
BEN I'm not interested in your smart ass remarks now, lady. Let's go. Right now. You and I can discuss it on the walk home. 
She stands next to Mikey for a moment, both on the verge of tears. 
EXT. STREET. EVENING 
Hood and Wendy walk through a cold drizzling rain. 
He looks at her from time to time, then takes her arm. 
BEN Look, kiddo, don't worry about it. I really don't care that much. I'm just not sure he's good enough, that's all. 
WENDY Huh? 
BEN I mean, he's not serious, he'll end up living off Janey and Jim, you watch. It's just that you develop a sense when you get older, if things are going to work out or if they won't, and sometimes it's not worth the mess... 
She looks at him. They keep walking. She walks through a puddle. 
BEN (CONT'D) Your toes cold? 
WENDY Yeah. 
He stops and lifts her in his arms. 
BEN I'll carry you up the drive. 
She puts her arms around his neck and he lifts her up. 
On her face, as he carries her -- a look of blank but real intimacy. 
INT. HOOD FRONT HALL. EVENING 
Hood and Wendy enter, wet and cold, muttering hellos. 
ELENA (O.S.) (from the kitchen) Dinner in ten minutes. 
BEN You go dry off now. 
Wendy heads for the stairs, Hood following. 
ELENA It wouldn't make a pleasant evening, if that's what you're after. I don't want to talk about it. Stupid mustache cup. 
BEN What do you mean? 
ELENA Don't be dim. 
BEN Elena, what are you're talking about? 
ELENA I'm not surprised. 
BEN Listen, Elena, if you're gonna pull that passive aggressive stuff on me again -- 
ELENA Your unfaithfulness -- that's what I'm trying to talk about. Your unfaithfulness. Your betrayal. Your dalliance. And you won't do me the dignity of being up front about it. 
BEN (quieter) Am I unfaithful? Is that what you're trying to say? 
ELENA It's a starting place. 
BEN Well, what kind of faithfulness are you after? 
ELENA If you're going to insult me -- 
BEN What else could I be? What else could I be? We're not living in the real world here. You're living out some fantasy land from the past, or some advice or something from those psychoanalysts... there are some hard facts here. 
Silence. 
BEN (CONT'D) It's the law of the land... the government, the world, those two guys on the Yankees... And I'm not having any fun at it, I can tell you that. I'm not... 
INT. DEN. NIGHT 
Wendy puts the volume of the TV up, to drown out a conversation she can almost overhear but doesn't want to. 
INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT. CONT'D 
ELENA Oh lord. You think I'm so dense. And now you want to be seen with your dense wife at the cocktail party. You want to wear that ridiculous shirt which doesn't go with those pants at all. You want to wear that, and you want me to shake hands with your friends and make conversation and dress up in an outfit that shows a lot of cleavage and you're not going to accord me the respect of talking honestly about this... You don't really know what this feels like. 
BEN (whispering) Sure I do. Do I know what loneliness feels like? Sure I do. I know a lot about it, if that's what you mean. 
ELENA Benjamin. That's supposed to explain it? 
Seemingly tired, he stands before her. Silence. Elena sighs, then walks into the den. 
INT. DEN. NIGHT 
ELENA We're going to the Halford's. The number's on the calendar in the kitchen. We should be home around 
WENDY (eyes still glued to the TV) Is it a big party? A big neighborhood party? 
ELENA I suppose. Why? 
WENDY Just curious. If there's a problem, I guess I'll just call you there to interrupt. 
ELENA What sort of problems are you planning exactly? 
Elena kisses the top of her head. 
WENDY (still watching the TV) Oh I thought I'd steal the station wagon, drive up to a commune. Or set the house on fire. You know. 
ELENA Just bundle up. It's supposed to freeze tonight. We'll see you in the morning. 
EXT. HOOD HOUSE. NIGHT 
Elena and Ben emerge from the house, and look up at a darkening, foreboding sky. A light rain falls. They jog toward their car. 
INT/EXT. HOOD CAR. NIGHT 
The car moves slowly through the rainy suburban streets. 
Inside, Elena and Ben don't speak. 
EXT. HALFORD HOUSE. NIGHT 
Their Firebird pulls up. There are already many other cars parked on the lawn and driveway. 
INT. HALFORD FOYER. NIGHT 
Hood and Elena enter. Dot Halford accosts them. 
DOT Ben, Elena. Wonderful! Wonderful! So wonderful to see you. 
GEORGE Well, it's the funniest thing. I've been talking to some investors -- a little outside venture, you understand, between you and me -- about a scheme to manufacture a new Styrofoam packaging. Little peanut like pieces that can really keep an item free from trauma during shipping. Miraculous. Anyway, it turns out the genius behind the whole project is your neighbor, Jim Williams. How about that! 
BEN Well, hey, isn't that a one-in-a million coincidence. A real dreamer, Jim Williams, eh? 
GEORGE Darned right. Look here, Benj, whaddya make of this sequel to The Godfather? You think it's gonna work? 
BEN Don't see how. I think the public's had its fill of this gangster stuff. No, trust me -- disaster pics. And air hockey. 
GEORGE Yeah, good. 
Benjamin catches a glimpse of Janey, voluptuously attired, across the room. 
GEORGE (CONT'D) Well, gonna make a break for the hors d'oeuvres guy. 
BEN Yeah, see you bright and early Monday am. (beat) Say, where's the wife? 
GEORGE (winking as he goes) In Rhode Island with the folks. I'm a free agent tonight. 
At this, they both notice Elena slowly gliding across the other side of the room. Clair gives Ben a sideways glance, then moves on. 
Ben makes straight for Janey, who pretends to be preoccupied with a plant. 
JANEY Oh jeez, Benjie. Well, here you are. 
BEN Damn right, but where the hell were you? 
JANEY (looking around) What are you talking about? 
BEN (whispering, but too loudly) Don't bullshit me around, Janey. Jesus Christ, I waited around for more than half an hour, in nothing but my boxer shorts, and -- and what's all that about? What the hell happened? 
Janey takes a sip of her drink. 
JANEY A prior engagement overcame me. 
BEN What? 
JANEY Listen, Benjamin Hood. I have obligations that precede your... from before you showed up. One or two, you know, good-natured encounters, that doesn't mean I'm... I'm not just some toy for you. When I remembered some chores I wanted to get done before the party, I just did them, that's all, because I wanted to do them before I saw Jimmy. 
BEN Jimmy? Jimmy? I don't know how to take this. And what do you mean, Jimmy? I thought you said you and your husband -- 
JANEY How you take it isn't all that interesting to me, Benjamin. I'm sorry -- 
BEN I just can't believe you could be so -- 
Stalling, he watches her take another sip of her drink and wander off. 
The air is filled with talk of Watergate, Billie Jean King, the Oil Crisis, the Mets. 
Benjamin goes over to the couch, where Dave Gorman is chatting up an attractive younger woman. 
GORMAN (lighting up a joint) Welcome to the Monkey House has been a seminal influence on me -- hey Benjamin -- give it a try? This stuff will make some sense out of those larger questions. 
BEN (waving it away) Thanks for the advice Dave. 
But then, Benjamin changes his mind. 
BEN (CONT'D) Uh, well, what the hey... 
Taking the joint, he tugs on it, holding the smoke in his lungs. 
BEN (CONT'D) (coughing) Good shit. 
GORMAN Sure is good shit. It's opiated. I had it in my chamber for a while. I was smoking this other -- 
BEN It's what? 
GORMAN Don't fret, Benjie, it's -- 
BEN Darn it, Dave. 
He rises unsteadily, weaving through the room's conversations. 
JACK MOELLERING Take California. They've got their own airline in-state that's not subject to the fare controls. Compare Sacramento to L.A. on the controlled airlines and you'll see what Friedman is saying -- supply and demand, less restriction. 
Benjamin walks over to a window. The outdoor lamps illuminate a new and heavy downpour of frozen sleet. 
INT. CONRAIL TRAIN. NIGHT 
Paul is seated, reading the latest number of The Fantastic Four comic book. The cover displays a lurid, atomically glowing baby. 
LIBBETS Yeah, Paul, are you gonna get home okay? 
Paul and Francis exchange a look. 
She puts an Allman Brothers tape on the 8-track and turns the TV down. 
INT. HOOD BATHROOM. DAY 
Wendy enters the bathroom. 
She fills the sink with water, then turns off the tap. She takes a razor blade from the counter, and slowly, determinedly, holds it to her wrist. 
She presses it into her skin, drawing a small drop of blood. 
WENDY Ouch! 
She drops the blade and splashes water on her wrist, grabbing some toilet paper and holding it against the tiny wound. 
WENDY Stupid. 
She hears the phone ring and walks downstairs. 
INT. HOOD DEN. NIGHT 
Wendy picks up the phone. 
WENDY Hood residence. 
INT. WILLIAMS KITCHEN. NIGHT 
Mikey is on the other end of the line. 
MIKEY You're parents at that party? 
INTERCUT: 
WENDY Yeah. Yours? 
MIKEY You get in trouble? 
WENDY Maybe. Can't really tell yet. 
MIKEY I'm sorry if I got you into trouble. Maybe we don't have to, you know... unless you really want to. 
WENDY Yeah. 
MIKE I'm going to Silver Meadow, check out the ice storm... You wanna come. 
WENDY Maybe. 
MIKE Yeah. OK. 
INT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. NIGHT 
Mikey, bundled up in a huge orange ski parka and cap, heads for the door. 
SANDY Where you going? 
MIKEY Out. 
SANDY It's freezing. 
MIKEY (pausing) Yeah. When it freezes, I guess that means the molecules are not moving. So when you breathe, there's nothing in the air, you know, to breathe in to your body. The molecules have stopped. So it's clean. 
Sandy just looks at him. He walks out into the night. 
INT. HALFORD'S. NIGHT 
Elena sits on a couch, talking to no one, barely looking up, when someone stands in front of her. 
ELENA Reverend Edwards. 
PHILIP Perhaps you might find it in your heart to call me Philip? 
He sits beside her. 
ELENA You're here... I'm a bit surprised. 
PHILIP Sometimes the shepherd needs the company of the sheep. 
JUMP CUT TO: 
Helen Worthington approaches the bowl. Helen Worthington has the size and shape of a sumo wrestler. 
There is a nervous shifting of weight on the male side of the room. 
Helen delicately reaches into the bowl. Her hands emerge with a key chain. 
George Clair steps forward, obviously depressed, as a collective sigh of relief goes up from behind him. Ben looks on, momentarily triumphant. 
Elena smiles to herself. 
JUMP CUT TO: 
The Gadds choose each other. 
MRS. GADD Oh, my own husband. Isn't that against the rules? 
DOT Try again? 
MRS. GADD (relieved) Oh, I think not. 
Mr. Gadd smiles as they leave, obviously happy to go. 
Finally, only Mark Boland, Neil Conrad, Janey and Jim Williams, Rob and Dot Halford, Sari Steele, Benjamin and Elena. 
DOT Getting down to the wire! 
Elena steps forward. Benjamin is obviously agitated. 
Close on Janey's hands selecting -- away from Ben's equine key ring. 
She lifts up another key ring -- Neil Conrad, the teenager. 
She hands the self-important-looking Neil his keys and they turn to go. 
Jim Williams smiles mysteriously to himself. 
Ben suddenly lurches forward, semi-drunkenly, trying to separate Neil from Janey. 
THE GROUP (ad lib) Hey hey Ben, hang on there a sec. 
He backs off, ashamed, and, taking a step backwards, trips over the coffee table. 
Mark Boland helps lift him up. 
BEN Sorry... maybe I should... the bathroom? 
DOT Right down the hall, Ben. 
BEN (muttering) Sorry, I'm sorry. Uh, I'll be back. 
Dot follows Mark Boland down the hall behind Ben. 
Suddenly, it's just Elena and Jim Williams, and Sari Steele and Rob Halford. 
ROB HALFORD (taking Sari's arm) Actually, we didn't put our keys in at all. But you won't spread it around? It's my party, and Dot isn't... hey, we're just going to slip upstairs for a while. You folks like a cup of coffee or something before we go? 
Elena and Jim look at each other. 
ELENA Rob, we'll fix it for ourselves. You two go and get acquainted. We'll let ourselves out the front door. 
Jim and Elena stand there alone. 
JIM Well, I have to say I don't have much faith that my car keys are still in that bowl. Doesn't seem entirely safe, leaving your car keys around? 
ELENA Let me. 
She takes the bowl and dips her hand in. Two sets are left. One, her own, she avoids. She takes out Jim's keys and walks across the room, handing them to him. 
JIM Thanks, but -- oh, I don't think so. It's been kind of a discouraging evening. 
ELENA You couldn't have hoped for much better when you came up the walk. 
JIM Somehow it was different in my imagination when I thought about it. Actually, I didn't think about it at all, really. 
They sit down on the sofa. 
JIM You want coffee or something? 
She sits on the toilet next to him, stroking his hair. 
ELENA (CONT'D) You're in no condition to drive. We'll talk in the morning, OK? 
He sits, accepting and quiet. 
ELENA (CONT'D) You'll get some sleep on the couch out there? 
BEN (looking up at her, with gratitude) Sure. I'll try. And we'll talk in the morning? 
ELENA We'll talk in the morning. 
EXT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. NIGHT 
Wendy walks up the drive in the rain, pauses, then goes to the front door and knocks lightly. The door swings ajar. She pushes on it, and lets herself in. 
INT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. NIGHT 
WENDY Anyone home? Hello. 
Wendy wanders into the living room, then climbs the steps. The sound of the wind and the darkness begin to scare her. 
She goes into Mikey's room -- it's even more of a disaster zone than usual. 
She sees on the wall his dark-light poster of the 12 (sexual) positions of the zodiac. 
She notices the black garter belt on the floor, and picks it up, absentmindedly swinging it in her hand as she walks out of the room. 
She walks back down the stairs and into the kitchen, leaving the garter belt on the counter. 
She opens the refrigerator, grabs a jar of peanut butter, and scoops some up in her finger. As she puts her finger in her mouth -- 
SANDY Wendy. 
She gives out a little yelp. 
WENDY Sandy, you scared the shit out of me. 
SANDY What are you doing? 
WENDY Just thought I'd stop by. 
SANDY Mike's out -- I think he went to Silver Meadow to see if you were hanging around there. 
WENDY Yeah. 
SANDY (pause) Are you his girlfriend? 
WENDY No. 
INT. JIM'S CADILLAC. NIGHT 
Elena gets in. They drive off silently. 
EXT. STREETS. NIGHT 
The car moves haltingly through the sleet and ice, inches up a hill, then falters and slides back silently, circling a couple of times before crashing into an embankment. 
INT. CAR. NIGHT 
As the car slides and crashes amid Jim's and Elena's screams. 
Silence. 
JIM You okay? 
ELENA Yeah. You? 
JIM Yes. Well, I guess we can walk from here. 
EXT. CAR. NIGHT 
Jim and Elena get out, shaky, from the car. 
They pause for a moment. 
The street lamp above them sizzles, but stays on. 
They start to walk. 
SANDY Communist Viet Cong. 
WENDY They left it in the jungle. 
They speak with high seriousness. 
Wendy slides up on the bed where Sandy sits, a pillow on his lap, and one by one, with exaggerated slowness, she removes her snowboots, as if they were stiletto heels. 
WENDY Can I get into your bed? (pause) With you? 
Sandy begins to shake. 
SANDY We -- we have to go to the guest room. We can't stay in here. What if Mikey? My parents? 
WENDY Don't worry about them. They're at that party, getting drunk and falling all over each other and making jokes about McGovern and stuff. 
Sandy begins to cry. 
SANDY It's just -- it's just -- 
She takes his hand, and they walk out of the room and down the hall, into the guest room. 
INT. GUEST ROOM. NIGHT 
Wendy and Sandy enter. She sees the vodka bottle on the dresser. 
WENDY Want a drink? 
SANDY Vodka? 
WENDY You never tasted the stuff? 
She fills the glass to the brim and hands the bottle to Sandy. 
They clink and each toss back a sip -- Wendy almost the entire glass. 
Sandy coughs and gags, but swallows. 
WENDY Try again. 
He does. 
SANDY It feels warm. 
WENDY One more shot? 
SANDY Okay. 
They drink. 
WENDY Under the covers. 
Under they go, and soon every layer of clothing emerges. 
WENDY (feeling her way) Get 'em off. 
Sandy begins to laugh, and soon Wendy joins him. 
They roll around on top of each other for a while. 
WENDY Have you ever had a nocturnal emission? 
SANDY Huh? 
WENDY That's the name for when you wake up and find this little pool of sticky stuff, like after a sexy dream. 
Sandy shakes his head. 
WENDY They didn't tell you this stuff yet? What planet do you live on? 
Sandy doesn't answer, but climbs back on top of her and kisses her neck. 
SANDY I love you. 
WENDY That's nice. Are you drunk? 
SANDY I don't know. How do I know? 
WENDY I don't know either. You spin around, when you lie down. 
They look almost angelic. 
Wendy, sensing her presence in the room, opens her eyes, slowly coming out of sleep. 
ELENA (heartbroken, softly) Get dressed. 
Elena walks out of the room, back to the kitchen. 
Wendy gets out of bed quietly, leaving Sandy sleeping peacefully. 
She looks at him lovingly, and tucks the blanket back up around him. 
INT. WILLIAMS KITCHEN. DAWN 
Elena and Jim are drinking coffee. 
ELENA You should let him sleep. 
Wendy enters. She looks inquisitively at the two adults. 
WENDY Where's dad? 
INT. HOOD CAR. DAWN 
Ben continues to drive slowly. He looks out his side window, and sees something. He puts on his brakes. 
EXT. STREET. DAWN 
Ben gets out of the car, and stands on the top of an icy embankment. In a clump of bushes is the orange glow of a parka. 
He walks hesitantly toward it. Mike's body lies face down in the wet ice. 
Ben leans down and turns the body over, then stands back in amazement and saddened shock. 
He stands there for a moment, then picks Mike's body up, carrying him over the hill and onto the street. We see now that he is parked just a short block from the Williams's house. 
He bypasses his car and walks directly down the street toward the house. The effort is obviously enormous. He falls from time to time, then gets back up. 
INT. TRAIN. PRE-DAWN 
Various passengers asleep. 
Paul, hunched up in his seat under the faint emergency exit light, cold. He reads his comic book by the light of the emergency exit. "DON'T YOU SEE, SUE? HE WAS TOO POWERFUL... IF HIS ENERGY HAD CONTINUED TO BUILD, HE WOULD HAVE DESTROYED THE WORLD!" 
Suddenly, the lights begin to flicker on and the hum of the train's engines returns. 
The conductor enters the car, blasting forth in his classic nasal train conductor voice. 
CONDUCTOR Good morning ladies and gentlemen -- 
On Paul, squinting in the harsh light. 
EXT. TRAIN BRIDGE. PRE-DAWN 
The train moves slowly through a suburban, semi-forested landscape. On the street below the bridge, an emergency highway crew is removing a fallen tree, their trucks aglow in flashing yellow lights. 
INT. WILLIAMS KITCHEN. DAWN 
Elena pours Wendy a cup of coffee. They're both in their coats. 
WENDY I don't like coffee. 
ELENA It'll warm you up. 
Elena sits next to her. They both raise their cups and sip the coffee, not noticing the simultaneity of their movements. 
INT. GUEST ROOM. DAWN 
Jim watches the sleeping Sandy, picks up the half-empty bottle of vodka, pours himself a drink. The noise wakes Sandy up. Jim sits down on the bed at his feet and takes a sip. 
SANDY Dad? 
Jim looks at him. 
INT. KITCHEN. DAWN 
Elena and Wendy hear a hollering from outside, get up to see what it is. 
EXT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. DAWN 
