EXT. FOWLER BACKYARD LATER 
Frank pushes Duncan, who sits proudly on his new swing-set. 
D C Higher! HIGHER! SMALL CHILDREN are everywhere. A serious Super Soaker Squirt Gun fight in progress. 
ACROSS THE YARD a steaming hot grill, with a huge assortment of hot-dogs & burgers. A spatula flips a patty. The sounds of Fenwav park emanate from a chea Dort able radio. WILLIS GRINNEL, early 50's, a stout, silver-haired man, works the grill. Standing next to him is Matt, his best friend for forty plus years. Matt takes a pull off a can of Moxie. Sets it down and searches through a plastic bread bag. Willis looks past him, distracted. 
MATT h, Ruth hates this kind. What? 
MATT I bought the wrong buns. 
WILLIS Maybe we can borrow hers. Matt follows Willis's gaze, to the object of his distraction: A PRETTY WOMAN IN TIGHT DENIM SHORTS. She-s bent over to wipe the ketchup-stained face of Jason (he's wearing Matt's cap). 
WILLIS Ah, what I would give to have back my youth. 
MATT Willis, you never had that in your youth. The woman turns around and catches Willis staring. It's Natalia. Willis looks down, nonchalantly rifling through the bun bag. Matt waves to a passing man in khaki shorts, FATHER OBERTI, 
50-S- 
MATT Father! You made it! 
FATHER OBERTI Hey, if I don't see you fellas here, I don't get to see you at all. 
ON F He backwards-hugs Natalie. 
F You want a beer? 
NATALIE I think I'll see if your Mom needs any help. 
FRANK Good luck. She laughs-He grabs and tickles her but she breaks away and escapes inside the house. Matt watches on, and falls into a wistful daydream. 
WILLIS Jealous? Matt turns to him and, to Willis's surprise, ever so slightly, nods. 
I NT. FOWLER HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - S Natalie walks in through the living room, pausing to examine a half finished ARCHITECTURAL MODEL that sits on a card-table next to a jigsaw puzzle. She looks toward the kitchen where a woman works at the sink. She takes a breath and starts there. 
I NT. FOWLER GARAGE - DAY 
OF THE GE Frank reaches into an old Westinghouse refrigerator. He pulls out a case of Schaeffer's and a six-pack of Moxie. He loads it all into a metal tub filled with ice. 
VOICE O.S. 
YO0 Frank, hunched over as he works, loo. ip at 
FRONT OF THE GARAGE TIM BRYSON, 22, still in his work clothes: He wears a White soiled smock. A° patch on his Right pocket says STROUT & SONS. Over the left sply TIM. A hair-net nests on his head. 
F Thanks for coming by. Wooo, is that new cologne? You really oughta take a shower when you leave that place. 
TIM Very funny. 
F Take off that head dress, chief, and give me a hand? Tim reaches up and pulls the hair-net off his head. 
EXT - FOWLER HOUSE - DAY 
SIDE OF THE HOUSE Tim and Frank lug the heavy cooler around the house, heading toward the backyard. 
TIM So, Mr. Strout mentioned you again. 
FRANK I bet he did. 
TIM Seriously, man. He still talks about you coming back. Says you're the best can packer he ever had. Be nods. 
F He always was a nice guy. 
TIM 
RUTH Oh, no. 
EXT. FOWLER HOUSE - DAY 
Matt exits the house. 
ACROSS THE YARD Duncan jumps off his swing and sprints. 
TO RICHARD who has just arrived. He stays at the far end of the yard. Duncan does a running jump into his father's arms. 
D C Daddy! Frank with Jason, looks up. Jason sees his father. He doesn't move. Natalie walks over to Frank, they exchange glances. 
NATALIE C'mon Jason. 
JASON No. 
NATALIE Now. Shedgrabs his hand. Straining to appear casual, traverses the 
YARD 
C DUN Richard play-boxes Duncan. Duncan looks up at his mother. 
D C Daddv's takino us to the arcade. 
Richard, eating Duncan's hot dog, rises to meet Natalie and Jason. 
RIC Hey there buddy --.Come on over here Jace- Jason looks away. 
DUN 
(TO JASON) I told you held come uttface- Jason reaches over and whacks Duncan on the head. 
RIC 
(ANGRY) Hey Jason - Don't do that to your brother. You want me to do that to you? He probably has. Jason backs away. Frank makes his way over to Natalie. 
AT THE GRILL Matt watches on- absently flipping burgers. Ruth comes over to h° 
RUTH 
MATT 
MATT 
IT'S OK- Ruth shakes her head. Richard, Frank and Natalie are talking, but there are long pauses between words. Tim wanders over and says something to Richard Finally, Richard smiles, turns, and exits. Alone. Jason playfully chases Duncan across the yard. Frank and Natalie stay behind, talking quietly. Matt takes a breath, and exhales. He turns to Ruth with a comforting smile, but she's just entering the house. The screen door closes behind her. 
- FOWLER HOUSE - KITCHEN - S Ruth is at the counter pouring dressing onto a salad. Frank comes up behind her and hugs her. 
F Thanks for doing this mom. 
RUTH Are you alright? 
F Sure. Natalie and I want to take you and dad out tonight. 
RUTH Oh that's very sweet dear, but we already have plans. 
F You going over to the Grinnel's? Ruth shakes her head. 
RUTH 
(SMILES) Your father's taking me to the Strand. 
FRANK Oh, what are you seeing? 
RUTH The first film we ever saw together. 
RUTH Hmmmm. He won't listen to me. I asked him three times to dismantle that swing-set. 
MATT Oh, let it stay up. Looks like a young couple lives here. 
RUTH He needs his head in school. Not in her. 
MATT So to speak. Ruth pinches his shoulder. 
RUTH it would help if you were my side. 
MATT 
(PLAYFULLY) I'll get on your side. She laughs and pushes him away. 
INTO UNION CLINIC - WAITING ROOM - DAY A small waiting room with an alcove reception. ROCKWELL PRINTS adorn the walls, a long table covered with dog-eared periodicals, rests in front of a couch that has seen better days. ADAMSON 80's, glances over at her husband, ELWYN 80's,who vacantly thumbs through a HIGHLIGHTS MAGAZINE. He pauses to catch-up on the latest exploits of GOOFUS & GALLANT. The nurse, JANELLE 40's, calls out from the alcove. 
JANELLE O.S. Mr. and Mrs. Adamson? 
INT. UNION CLINIC - EXAMINATION ROOM 
Elwyn sits bare chested on a table. Matt finishes bandaging his elbow - then listens to his chest with a stethoscope. He is careful and thoughtful. Alma looks to him. Worried. 
MATT You can put your shirt back on now. Alma stands and helps her husband dress. Yesterday he was up and around all afternoon, but toda - he tumbled. He's fallen down twice. have all I can do to get him up. He's weak and the longer you lay in bed - the weaker you get. 
MATT Elwyn, you need to do those exercises, you promised me, twice a day. I know you miss the work - important. but it's 
ALMA 
TO MATT) Man idn't have ache nor pain--he's just gave up-said when he couldn't work no more, he didn't want to live. For a while he'd sit and just mend on nets - but he can't do that anymore. 
ELWYN (speaks with difficulty) How's your dad Matt? I'm sorry Dr. now Elwyn you remember Jesse Fowler passed on somi&ime back, we were at the funeral. Remember? Elwyn nods. 
Matt knows. He's heard this before. Sometimes he feels more like a mechanic than a doctor, working on old cars with parts that have long been discontinued. He nods sympathetically. 
INT. MATT'S OFFICE HALLWAY LATER 
Matt pulls on his jacket. He passes Janelle in the hallway as he heads for the back door. 
MATT I'll be back in an hour. Forgot my lunch. 
JANELLE Starting to become a habit. I can get you something from Willis's. He's already out the door. 
EXT. HARBOR - SAME 
Matt trots down the gangway and up to where the "GIGI" is moored. He looks in. No sign of Frank. A VOICE BOOMS from a new 35ft. JONESPORTER - it belongs to HENRY OZAR 50's. 
HENRY Just missed him Matt, he went home for lunch today. 
MATT Right ...I forgot he's got that interview. 
I NT. FOWLER HOUSE - DAY Matt enters. Looks around. Calls up the stairs. 
MATT Frank? Frank? Hello? 
FRANK O.S. Dad. Matt turns around, and sees Frank, 
MATT Frank? .. What are you doin ? Thought you were driving to Boston for t at interview? rank slowly nos. His clothes are rumpled. 
FRANK V Q° yeah - he we rescheduled. 
MATT 
(KNOWING) uh huh. 
NATALIE - walks out, from a room in the hall. She combs her hair through with her fingers, but her skirt, on backwards, is somewhat of a giveaway. Frank rolls his eyes. 
RUTH I see. 
INT. NATALIE'S CAR - DAY 
Natalie drives down Emerson Road. As she approaches her house, she sees a Brown Suburban sitting in her driveway. She looks confused. 
INT. NAT IE'S HOUSE - DAY 
THE KITCHEN Natalie enters with groceries. Richard is seated at the kitchen table. He's finishing the first half of a sandwich. He drains a glass of milk. Natalie sets her purse down on the counter, and starts cleaning up his mess. 
NATALIE How'd you g et in this time? 
RIC 
(PLAYING ALONG) chimney. She takes the carton of milk that Richard, no doubt, left out. She pours the final drops into his glass 
RIC Thank you. She throws the carton out. She takes a seat, and stares at him like a teacher counselling a troubled youth. 
NATALIE What can I help you with? He kicks back the last of the milk, wipes his mouth. 
RIC I was just dropping that off for Jason. 
NATALIE What? 
RIC That. He points to a BASEBALL TROPHY sitting on top of the microwave. inscription bears his name and "Rockland High School 1982 Regional Championship." 
RIC I didn't know where you'd want to put it. It was about time he got it. What am I going to do with it? Richard's wistful gaze stays locked on the trophy. For a moment, Natalie's and slips away. 
NATALIE I think it will mean a lot to him, Richard. He's really been improving lately ... 
RIC (a sharp turn) So I've heard. 
NATALIE It would have been nice if you'd come to his game. 
RIC I just got your message. Where are t with him? 
NATALIE That's none of your business. 
RIC I see. They're my kids but they're none of my business. 
NATALIE You know what I mean. 
E-?? Richard presses his fingers to his eyes. He takes a long, heavy breath. 
RIC I - - I was thinking about moving back. Here. With you and the boys. 
NATALIE What are you talking about? 
RIC What I talking about? I'm talking about moving back, that's what I'm talking about - I know what you're thinking, but it's different now. 
NATALIE Oh reall ? How's the job? Your father t ake you back on at the cannery? 
RIC 
(DRILY) That's funny. You're still getting checks aren't you? She ignores him 
RICHARD Ya see my new rig out there? Natalie looks annoyed. 
NATALIE Yeah - it's real nice. 
RIC It's not exactly new, I traded David the truck for it. It's got room for all of us - a good grocery gettin car. A moment. 
RIC You wantta take a ride? 
NATALIE 
F I'm boring you, aren't I? 
NATALIE 
(SOFTLY) No, not at all, I was just... . just thinking. 
F About what? 
NATALIE About you. . ,school, 
F I'd rather talk about our house. 
NATALIE I know you would. 
F What if I wait a year? 
NATALIE 
R 
F A year's not going to make a difference. 
NATALIE You can't do that, Frank. 
F I've thought a lot about this. 
NATALIE But you told me it takes forever just to establish yourself. 
F Exactl , so what's a year in forever? Know w at Duncan said today? She can't suppress a smile. 
NATALIE You wouldn't be changing the subject would you? 
FRANK Yes. 
NATALIE What now? 
F He said, "Frank, I don't think Jason really understands girls." 
NATALIE 
(LAUGHING) He didn't! 
F He did ... "understands girls!" 
NATALIE What did you say? 
F I said, "give him time, Duncan." They both break up. 
F I didn't know what to say! if this is how he is now - boy are we in trouble- He stops short. The word - We - hangs in the air. They watch each other, unsure of how to react. Changing the subject quickly. Frank reaches down to the grass and comes up with one of Duncan's toys. A real musclebound superhero. Somewhat grotesque. 
F (reading the tag) 
ACTION MAN? 
NATALIE Richard gave it to Dunk for his birthday. 
Frank sets it down. The HEADLIGHTS OF APPROACHING CAR rake across ACTION 
I NT. ROCKLAND HIGH SCHOOL MUSIC ROOM - NIGHT Half a dozen girls age 15 to 18, are gathered in Ruth's classroom. Desks and chairs are stacked up for summer recess. The girls are in shorts and T-shirts, one with a picture of the solar system, and another with the Pink Panther. Bri ht bathing-suit straps are visible around some of their nec s: This afternoon they were sw' °ng. A few look sleepy enough to be in bed already. Ruth stands with her arms up- keeping time and controlling the dynamics. A single girl sings "The Drone"` a low monotone one hears underneath the other voices. They sing the Balkan folk song "Oj Savice." 
CHORUS (SUBTITLED) Oh, Sava, carry me across our quiet cool water. There is my dear village and in that village, the prettiest girl. Without embarrassment, they shriek they drone, and at their ease they whistle. The music transports these girls - who are normally pre-occupied with images of MTV and Brad Pitt, to a place of pure self. The song ends. 
RUTH That was really good! OK it's 7:30 we should stop. The girls gather up their things quickly. 
RUTH Remember when you sing these words- The way we feel about the harbor, is how the Balkans felt about the river Sava. The girls start out of the room. 
RUTH Matt. 
I 
MATT %Q, We have to call them Frank. 
F It wasn't that serious. 
RUTH Of course. Just like the relationship isn't serious. 
HATT Ruth, this is not the time. 
RUTH Well, when is the time? After he knocks him into a coma? This is stopping. Now. 
F Oh really? 
RUTH Come Fall, you're on a plane. Are you taking them with you? How- do you think the boys will feel when you disappear? 
F 
HEY A 
RUTH This isn't just some sweetie from Vassar, that you'll see on holidays, Frank. You're not in this alone. Frank rises and leaves the room. 
RUTH Please listen. The sooner you end this thing the better. Ruth exhales. She returns to Matt, who is leaning against the recliner, chin in hand, deep in thought. 
RUTH What are we going to do? Matt deliberates. 
MATT I don't know. 
RUTH .you've got to talk to him. 
HATT I don't ow.,,I think he's right about scaring the kids. Why don't we call it a night? We'll deal with it tomorrow. 
RUTH Matt are you going to call the police or do I have to? You just ..s- Bd me what I think. if you want to call them. call them. 
Ruth looks at him, stupefied. Without warning, Ruth leaves and goes upstairs. 
I NT. FOWLER HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT Ruth lies on her side reading. Matt comes in from the hallway. He stares at her. She ignores him. Finally, she turns over and faces him. 
RUTH It's not the first time she's played around. Matt seems relieved that she's talking to him. He sits on the bed and starts taking off his shoes. 
MATT She's not with the guy anymore. 
RUTH I mean from before. 
MATT What are you talking about? 
RUTH Oh, come on - you've heard the same things I have. 
MATT I think you forget. I don't take my lunch in the teachers lounge - 
RUTH Maybe he still loves her. Matt looks from Ruth, out the bedroom door, and into the hallway. He sees Frank rounding the top of the stairs. He gets up and closes the bedroom door. 
I NT. F R HOUSE F 'S ROOM - S Frank enters the room, pulls off his T-shirt and drops it on the floor. He walks over and faces a wall mirror. He seems nonplussed by what he sees. 
INTO HENRY'S FISH SHACK - DAY Henry Czar sits holding court with Jason Frank, whose facial bruises have all but healed, the stitches replaced by a butterfly bandage. They eat cod tongues and cheeks. Drink soda pop from bottles. 
HENRY Best part of the cod - but most outsi ers, they won't touch it. The shack is too warm and smells of cordage and paint, spilled beer and male sweat. Jason is in heaven. 
HENRY The summer fishermen, the part-timers, like Frank here - get in your hair. 
HENRY There's as many as 80 of em with licenses now - should put up a sign - "Fish your own backyard or lose your traps0" Frank smiles at Jason. 
FRANK A lobster is simple enough Jason. But if the guy going after him is even simpler well he might as well give up. 
THE BACK-DOOR 
Frank races across the living room, just as THE DOOR FLIES 
OPEN. RICHARD. eves burning, marches in. 
I NT. JASON'S BEDROOM UPSTAIRS The boys huddle around Natalie. DUNCAN is wailing- JASON looks terrified- NAT IE strains to hear- 
SO THING CRASHES FROM DOWNSTAIRS- 
WE AND FRANK YELLING. NATALIE starts to the door- 
NATALIE Listen kids - Stay here. D C won't let go of her sleeve. He starts to move with her. 
NATALIE 
(SCREAMING) I said stay here! He lets go and, JASON takes him up in his small arms. 
JASON 
(TO DUNCAN) It's OK Dunk .--Mommy's coming back. NATALIE hesitates - then heads out the door. We MOVE WITH HER out the bedroom to the, 
TOP OF THE STAIRS She slowly steps down the stairs. 
A GUNSHOT. 
SHE SC 
NATALIE She moves quickly down the stairs. 
Cautiously - she looks over the landing. HER P.O.V.: From above, Richard stands, his back to her, his head hung. in his hand. a 9mm Pistol. Natalie lets out a plaintive wail. 
NATALIE 
NO... Emotionless, Richard turns to her - looks down at the floor then starts toward the kitchen. Natalie races down the steps and stops. 
FRANKS'S BODY ON THE FLOOR. HIS FACE'IS HALF BLOWN AWAY. She's paralyzed, a scream trapped somewhere inside. She turns away. 
JASON O.S. DUNCAN O.S. 
(SCREAMINQ) (CRVINQ) 
MO ! D C 'S COMING LET GO OF ! ! ! 
DOWNSTAIRS! Richard sits at the kitchen table. The gun rests in front of him. His right sleeve splattered with Frank's blood. 
BLACK 
FADE IN: 
THE SCREEN FILLS WITH OPAQUE D E. LIGHT APPEARS. 
INT. UNION CLINIC ROOM - DAY 
att's face appears distorted behind the surface. 
JANELLE O.S. 
(FRIGHTENED) Matt? He lowers what we now see to be X.Ray and kills the light. 
TT'S OFFICE He hesitates, presses the blinking hold button, picks up the receiver. 
MATT Hello? ...Hello? Natalie? 
The blood drains from his face. 
Matt sits behind his desk catching up on some paperwork. Janelle appears in the doorway. 
JANELLE I'm going to lunch Dr. Fowler-- .alright She continues smiling as though ting to extend her tenderness. Matt avoids eye-contact. cie Leaves. Matt looks relieved. 
. GRINNEL'S CR W-S NEST - DAY Willis opened this place after serving as a chief petty officer in the Vietnam War. The theme, if there is one, is definitely nautical. Snapshots of longtime customers are stapled on the walls between the booths and tables, two are framed, and prominent. They are from Willis' - -, days; The first an entry photo of A YOUNG WILLIS front of the ha f. The second a sun faded color photo of : att and Willis. Both ook to be in their twenties, both dressed in Navy Whites. The trade here is mostly ve early breakfast, and then lunch for the men who work at the leather and shoe factories. 
A MUTED news show plays on a ceiling at the far end of the booths. A sign on the wall reads T your "Forget about lunch" breakfast. Willis carries over two plates with omelettes, parks them on the table, and takes a seat across from Matt. 
WILLIS Don't worry, I didn't make em. Matt takes a bite. He winces. 
WILLIS What? Oh, that's mine. He switches plates. 
WILLIS Sorry. Matt takes another bite. Better, 
WILLIS You got back to work so quick, Matt. It's not too soon? 
MATT I can't stay home. So, how's business? 
WILLIS Oh,.you know, same old crap. Got held up again, you knew that. 
MATT No. I didn't. 
WILLIS yeah...they got seventy five bucks. 
MATT Were you on the till? Willis chuckles, shakes his head. 
WILLIS They would have gotten something else if I'd been on the till. Matt nods. 
WILLIS How you doin', Matt? You on't write, you don't call. Where'd the love go? '0-' 
MATT Nag nag nag. Matt glances at an old clipping from the BOSTON GLOBE stapled to the wall. It's a photo from the 67 Redsox dream to 
Petrocelli, Yaztrems i and Reggie Smith, each hold u two fingers, they are s °ling after hitting consecutive omeruns. Matt remembers. Happier days. 
WILLIS They set the bail hearing yet? 
MATT Sometime in the next few days.ye , 
WI IS Are you going? 
MATT I don't ow. Davis says it's a formallity really. I haven't talked to Ruth about weather she thinks we should go or not. 
WILLIS If it's too much for Ruth, I'll come with you Matt. 
MATT Thanks, but I'm sure it'll be alright- Davis says it's a formallity really. 
WILLIS The criminal trial set yet? 
MATT October. 
WILLIS October? 
MATT That's what they tell me, anyway. 
WILLIS Christ, they take their time. 
MATT .yeah, well, he's in there now. 
WILLIS They're keeping him busy, I'm sure - You know where they'll move h once he's sentenced? Matt shifts the focus to his omelette. 
MATT You have any Tabasco sauce? Willis pauses. He looks around, ca `out to the kitc hen. 
WILLIS Hey, Pete. Tabasco. Pete! Ah, shit. He heads to the back. Matt looks out the window. A refrigera ted truck with the STROUT logo on it's side pulls to a stop at the light. Willis returns with sauce in hand. 
He takes a seat. Shifts his tone again. 
DAVIS objection. Mrs. Strout's police interview is already documented, the defense has a copy of it. There's no reason to waste anymore of the court's time . - . 
KEYES Your Honor, we just want to review exactly what s. Strout saw on the afternoon of July 17th. Isn't that why we're here? The Judge nods. 
JUDGE overruled. 
(TO NATALIE) Please continue. Natalie tries to recapture her place. Keyes nods. 
MARLA KEYES 
(RECAPPING) So you were bringing your children up to their bedroom ... Natalie's glance wanders to the gallery, to Matt and Ruth. She,sits on her hands to keep them from shaking. 
NATALIE 0 Right. I was in Jason and Dunk's room I didn't know what was happening downstairs. I was getting worried. I asked Jason to read Dunk a story. He didn't want a story - He wanted to come with me ... so I sat him back down on the bunk and I left them in the room. 
KEYES You left "them"? 
NATALIE My boys. She starts to cry. 
KEYES 
(SOFTLY) Of course - I'm sorry. on. 
NATALIE I closed the door...I moved down the hall. I looked back to make sure they weren't behind me. I had just started down the stairs, when I heard the shot. I ran down... A deep sob ... 
NATALIE .and Richard... 
KEYES I'm sorry, can we just back up? You said you "heard the shot"? 
NATALIE Yes. 
KEYES You "heard"? s- Strout, did you witness the accident? Prosecutor Davis jumps up. 
DAVIS b`ection. There are no grounds to in icate this was an "accident" The Judge nods. 
JUDGE 
(TO STENOGRAPHER) Please strike "accident" from the record. (to Marla Keyes) Ms. Keyes, please rephrase the question. Marla Keyes hasn't taken her eyes off Natalie. They both know what's next. 
KEYES 
(GENTLY) Mrs. Strout ...did you actually see the sidearm discharge? 
I NT. DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - DAY Davis hands a cup of coffee to Matt, who sits on a faux leather couch with Ruth. 
DAVIS (to Ruth re: coffee) You sure you don't want? 
RUTH I'm fine. Davis takes a seat across from them. 
DAVIS You see, we can't appeal bail - It's just not set up that way. RUTH - -y You let that bastard walk out and we're supposed to just sit here? Don't tell us there's nothing to do about this. 
DAVIS It's not us, s. Fowler. The state's bail code is to ensure future court appearances 
DAVIS In this case Strout's family was prepared to put up a substantial amount of property as bail - That, along with his ties to the community made it hard for us to convince the judge of a serious "Risk of Flight". 
RUTH Oh - I see. 
DAVIS It's not just your case. Now you can file a civil suit. I recommend it. But not now, wait till after the crimminal trial. Matt stares at a small cartoonish statue on Davis's desk. It is one of those things that were popular in the 70's. A little man chasing an ambulance. It reads "World's Greatest Lawyer." 
RUTH And when will that be? Next week, next month? 
DAVIS Well... honestly - anywhere between twelve and eighteen months? 
RUTH I thought you said there would be a jury trial sometime in October!? 
DAVIS If he was incarcerated the udge would move for an October date - basically to save the County the cost of housing and feeding him as an inmate - But with bail the court date, unfortunately, is always later. 
A small development of modest, duplex apartment buildings. The architecture is outdated, the landscape unkempt. CLOSER ON one corner unit. The lights are off; there is no sign of life. A Brown Suburban sits in the driveway WE HEAR the RADIO "The following is a re-broadcast of last nights game, the third in a four game series{ between the Boston Red Sox and the Cleveland Indians. This broadcast is the property of Major League Baseball etc." 
INT. TT'S CAR - NIGHT 
Matt wearing a light coat over his pajamas, sits behind the wheel of his car listening to the game. He glances down at a piece of paper with an address. Then back out his windshield, looking at the corner duplex unit. 
INT. FOWLER HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 
Ruth sits at the table in her bathrobe. Smoking. The CAMDEN HERALD in one hand. The COURIER GAZETTE, and THE WORKING WATERFRONT within easy reach. Matt enters, fully dressed in jeans and a sweater. He winces at the smoke. 
RUTH You slept late. For you. Matt pours himself some coffee. 
MATT I took one of your pills. 
RUTH You never do that. She turns the page, absorbed in an article. Shaking her head, she slaps the paper down. 
RUTH Well there it is in black and white. You should read some of the things he says. Unbelievable. Matt takes a sip of coffee. He glances down at the paper. He nods, without really looking. 
MATT yeah. He checks his watch. 
MATT I should get going. 
RUTH Where? It's Saturday. 
MATT I won't be gone long. He bends, kisses her lightly on the cheek. 
MATT I'm meeting Willis. I'll tell him we're coming. She stares at the kitchen doorway long after he exits. Finally, she pulls the paper back and resumes reading. 
. CANDY'S QUICK SHOP - DAY Natalie stands behind the only counter cf a small MOM AND POP STORE whose specialty is cold beer, wine, cigarettes, and fish & Game Licenses. She rings up some items for a couple of teenagers. Matt enters the place, keeping his distance, a few feet from the counter. Natalie sees him. She pauses, as if quickly trying to-,gather her thoughts, the teenagers are waiting for their chang . She counts it back to them, and they exit. Matt steps forward. 
Hi. 
NATALIE . Hi. elderly woman places a half -gallon of milk, a dozen eggs, i s t er cou nter d a carton of L&M cigarettes down or. the reg Natalie quickly rings up the items and bags them. 
ELDERLY WOMAN Can you break a fifty? Natalie takes the bill, places it in a drawer underneath the register, and hands the woman her change, with a smile. 
ELDERLY WOMAN Thank you, dear. 
NATALIE You're welcome. 
ELDERLY WOMAN Could I possibly get another bag? Natalie quickly double bags the woman's groceries. There is a break in the customer flow. Natalie steps to the end of the counter. 
MATT I just wanted to see how you're doing. I tried reaching you ... 
NATALIE Oh. We're at my mother's house now. I'm sorry, I wanted to call you ... 
MATT It's okay. She looks over. A man hovers over some ina?azines near the re inter. 
NATALIE 
(ALMOST WHISPERING) Dr. Fowler ..-I' so...I don't even know how to begin... 
MATT You don't have to. NATALIE ? er I didn't lie the first time, I didn't, it's just - how it came out. I'm so sorry. matt nods, as if he had assumed as much. 
NATALIE Is s- Fowler .-- does she know you're here? The Man places a 12- ack of beer on the counter. Natalie looks to Matt, who shakes his head no. Natalie steps back to the register and rings up the beer. Her chin quivers. She makes a mistake on the register, has to start over. A few more customers gather on line. 
NATALIE 
(TO CUSTOMER) Can I get you anything else? She rings him up. Makes change as another customer steps up. Matt steps near her, trying to maintain privacy. 
MATT 
(QUIETLY) How are the boys? Are they okay? Natalie, choked by emotion, cannot respond. Near tears, she puts her hand up, unable to speak. Matt reaches out to touch her arm. His gesture is interrupted as: She pulls the cigarettes from an overhead rack. The Man pays. Matt stays a moment longer. There's nothing else to say. He leaves. She returns to her job. 
EXT. ST. FRANCIS CEMETERY ADJACENT CHUR CH 
I NT. FOWLER HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT - LATER Ruth wakes to the sound of metal on metal. She looks over to Matt, he's not there. 
RUTH 
(SCARED) Matt? She steps to the window, pulls back the shears and looks out. Through the window, in the dark, alone, flashlight in hand. Matt is dismantling the swin set. 
- GRINNEL CABIN - DAY A four room dwelling, surrounded by a wrap around porch that looks out over a canopy of forest below. The place was built before insulation was practical. Planks, beams , and studs are exposed. There is a bathroom, two bedrooms, and a common room consisting of a kitchen/dining area, and living room, with a ge, river stone fireplace. There are two oil burning 1 ps hanging from cross beams at each end of the room. Ruth sits next to Katie at a table in the middle of the room. Katie is ouring over a stack of snapshot books, descibin her chid "h and r dchildren in eac pose. The photos, w ile many, are all from a single trip that the family made to Florida. There is a clear dif erence in vernacular between the two women, Katie also has a voice that has been trained to reach anyone who might be in the f corners of her house. 
KATIE s lil Charles down at the Oh and here' pool - He figured out how to get down to the pool on the elevator all by himself. 
RUTH 
(PATIENTLY) He must of been very proud. 
KATIE 
LINE Oh yeah. Oh here's Shannon waitin in for that rollercoaster - You know the one? Ruth has no idea. 
RUTH 
(POLITELY) Were the lines very long? 
KATIE Well some of em. yeah - sixty minutes and upward-Unless of coarse ya got the "Fast-Pass." 
RUTH What's the fast pass? 
KATIE 
MS" Well ya got all the different "Kingdo - there---and so you take the fast pass it's a kind of a laminated card and you put it intah a machine and it tells you what time to come back - so you can go right in without waitin in lane. You guys ever go down to Florida? Ruth smiles at the thought and shakes her head- 
RUTH 0 -.no0 How many grandchildren do yo u have now? Katie turns from the snapshots and takes a breath while holding up her fingers to count-She is genuinely unsure. 
KATIE (under her breath Well there's lil Charles, Shannon, the three older ones and the babies ... eleven. 
RUTH That must wonderful. 
Q 0-?? Katie smiles and nods - it is a 
KATIE (by rote) "I Well. Willis always says guess there's no danger of us dying off - 
She catches herself. Too late. She looks at Ruth. Embarrassed. 
KATIE I'm sorry - I wasn't... Ruth waves her off good naturedly- 
RUTH I wanted to have more ..abut we had Frank, and Matt was just starting his practice.. - - -I guess it made sense. 
KATIE 
(GUILELESS) Well sometimes I wished I was an only child - let me tell you. When I was little, my big sister could get me to do anything. More than once she got me to throw m self down the stairs by telling inc the blanket she wrapped me in was a magic car et- Naturally, not being that swift, I believed her. Plus which, on this trip to Florida, we was in one of the Kingdoms there, and she was going on about how's we had to go on this one ride that was in this sort of mountain. I said -"K as long as it's not a roller coaster- on account of my back-" Well, we get strapped intah the little car there she starts laughing - Oh it's a rollercoaster alright - that one there. She points to the pictures. 
KATIE (CONT'D) A ride in the dark, no less. 
EXT. GRINNEL CABIN - S 
A great, endless, expanse of Fir trees. We are f up, looking out at this timbered landscape that seems to stretch forever. Matt stands before the edge of a cliff, d.ressr ` "- a short sleeved shirt. He takes a deep breath of the ( ri. . -ountain A steady CHOPPING rhythm is heard in the background. Matt turns. Willis is chopping the last of some firewood. 
MATT How much of this is yours? Willis plants his in the stump. 
WILLIS 
(SMILING) You ask me that eve t° e. You know the cove, the other side of the c in? yeah ...? 
WILLIS All the way to the other shoreline. Matt turns to him, grinning. 
WILLIS Almost three hundred and fifty acres. Know what it went for when I bought it? You don't want to know. Matt continues surveying, awed. Willis turns, starts walking back to his chore. 
MATT 1?? 0`1 How's David doing up there in Castine? 
WILLIS Well he dunnit want to go overseas - oh no...he told them he'd Reep doinit as long as he could stay in Maine or Vermont- 
KATIE 
(INTER PTIN ) But David says if theyy want him to go out to New Mexico or California, he'll go back to infantry - he don't care. Long as he stays out here. He's not about to-- 
WI IS Course he don't like working in recruitment anyhow's - Christ he gets them bo s come down to to the office at the mal - he gets them half-way processed and they decide they want that delayed entry thing - Christ I could't do 
IT-- 
TIE Or they decide not to join up at all and-- 
WI IS Well, like that one kid - he had him all the way through the works and then - Oh 
CHRIST- 
KATIE His folks called David and said that the boy wanted out so bad -- that he'd taken his own life. They all look at each other. How did this conversation get so depressing? 
WILLIS Yeah well something like that gets to you Christ, I couldn't do it. 
INT. FOWLER HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 
Ruth is at the table, alone, dressed for rehearsal, hair done. She finishes her breakfast as she pours through the weekend's mail. Matt in a suit, steps in to say goodbye. 
MATT I'm going now. She looks up. 
RUTH 
(FLAT) Okay. 
MATT You ready to go back? 
RUTH 
MATT 
(T IN ) You loo nice. 
ANGLE Who looks to Ruth for some kind of reaction. Nothing. Matt heads out the door. Ruth continues sorting the mail. She stops on one piece. Seems stunned, repeatedly reading it. 
THE ENVELOPE It's from Publisher's Clearinghouse. In oversized block letters, it reads, 
FRANK FOWLER, YOU MAY HAVE ALREADY WON $10,000,000! She stares at the piece for a long time. Looks off. Smiles. And starts giggling. She can't stop. The giggles quickly flow into a deep laughing fit, harder and harder as the tears rain down. 
INT. MATT'S OFFICE - DAY 
Matt is in his office, on the phone. 
MATT 
(INTO PHONE Well that's totall unacceptable isn't it? - Well what did he say? uh huh well, we can't allow that m I guess we're gonna have to show him how the cow eats the cabbage. Janelle knocks on the door. 
MATT Hold on a second. He puts his mouth over the speaker and lowers the phone. Nods to Janelle and she enters. 
JANELLE Dr. Fowler, I'm sorry. There's someone ' Ryan Collit. His mother`N brought him in. He doesn't have an appointment but-- I'm sorry bL _; you'll have to re-schedule. Janelle's a little taken aback. 
JANELLE He's Ann Collit's son. I thought. Well, you know, I thought you might want to 
MATT (into the phone) I'll call back later. He hangs up. He gets up and grabs his jacket 
MATT Sorry Janelle, I'll be back at four. 
JANELLE 
RUTH (taking off the phones) Yes? There's a pause, then the door slowly opens. Natalie takes a step in. Ruth looks up. If she's surprised, she doesn't show it, 
NATALIE I - -a I hope this is okay. Ruth says nothing. Natalie moves closer. 
NATALIE I've been hoping we might be able to get together - to talk. Ruth watches her as she approaches the desk. Natalie bends and cautiously extends her hand for Ruth to hold. 
NATALIE I just want to tell you how -e- And in a flash Ruth SLAPS Natalie across the face with her open hand. Natalie springs back, paralyzed with shock. She tries to catch her breath, staring directly at Ruth. Eyes ablaze, Ruth says nothing. - The two women look at each other for a very long time And final , as if she finally somehow got the resolution she came for, lead held high, Natalie turns and walks out. 
E X T STROUT & SONS CANNERY T cyclone fence surrounds the lace. sign reads "Strout 
SONS"- it is the end of the day. 
A grow of workers file out, gabbing, starting to strip the eves of their smocks and hair-nets. Tim, Frank's friend, exits with his co-workers. He climbs into his mini pick-up, and pulls out of the lot. A few seconds later, from outside the lot, Matt's car pulls 
AWAY- 
INT. SHOW & TELL - AFTERNOON - LATER 
A crowded working class tavern. Video oker machines, beef jerky at the bar, Schaeffer's on tap. We're in fuck. it's happy-hour. Tim sits around a table with a couple of buddies, laughing. 
CHARLES We lost a few strings and we had a fair idea it was him who was doing it - so's I just flat out asked him "No wasn't me." You should of seen what he tried to pull last wintah. He was up to the island there - and he claimed our traps were in his part of the cove - Bobb was up to the tavern on the head and e d him shooting his mouth off about how he and his stet an was gonna take a bat to the old man & me - so's I told the old man about it and he says "Don't hurt my feelings none."He says "Go on down to the Walmart and buy a couple of plastic bats." Next day the old man walks intah the office at the market - near the scales - where he know's the son of a bitch is gonna come in with his catch. He's got two six penny nails a hammer, and the bats o'coarse, so he nails those things right intah the wall. The guy at the scales looks at him like he's nuts "Whatta ya doing there Ivan" he says "Just sending a message" and the old man walks out. I come in and I could see what he wrote across them things. The door to the bar opens. 
TIM What? 
CHARLES "Here's the bats - if you got the balls." Tim and the others crack up. 
CHARLES Didn't touch our traps aftah that. stops mid sentence. 
Matt is passing by his table. 
TIM Dr. Fowler? Matt flinches, "surprised" to see Tim. 
A FEW MINUTES LATER Matt and Tim have moved to another booth. Matt leans heavily on his elbows, listening to Tim. 
TIM No - no, I don't even see Richard anymore. And he'd never tell me anything, believe Me. Matt takes a pull of beer. 
MATT Sure, of course. I was just wondering, you know, maybe there was something you heard, through the grapevine, maybe one of his buddies said something --- 
TIM 
(SEARCHING MEMORY) No -a- 
MATT I was thinking, Richard's brothers, they're still working with you, right? They must talk. Tim throws a nervous look over to the table where his friends ea They're oblivious to the conversation. He looks back to Matt, shifting in his seat. Matt leans forward. He speaks in an intense whisper. 
MATT I'm just saying, Tim, if we could find something, something concrete. If you could just ... it could be just a slip of the tongue --- Tim looks into Matt's eyes, feeling the torment. 
TIM I'll keep my ears open. Matt looks at him, dissatisfied. 
TIM It's funny running into you here, Dr. Fowler. Matt looks at Tim blankly, then finishes his beer. 
IN/EXT. TT°S CAR - AFTERNOON - LATER 
Matt drives end of highway. 
NEXT LIGHT Matt pulls into the left-hand turn lane and signals. There is a car in front of h° Above the licence plate is a yellow sticker which reads "Student Driver-" The plate itself is a vanity plate it says P Y4US- A 73 BLUE PICK- truck eases to a stop in the right lane, next to Matt's car. Matt glances over, for a moment he half expects to see Frank. He cracks the passenger side window, for a better look. He stares at the driver's window. Their window rolls down. attractive girl with short brunette hair stares back at Matt. Lost in the absurdity, he doesn't look away. The light changes. The girl smiles sweetly and blows him a kiss, before continuing through the light. Matt watches her go - he smiles - as if somehow relieved. The car behind him gives a polite toot - Matt makes the left. 
- SOUTH END MARKET - S Ruth enters, passing the empty front register. She strolls down an aisle, pulling some items from the shelves. TWO N CHAT from the next aisle. 
E #1 0-S- yeah, man, I - d better get back to the grind --- 
MALE #2 O.S. Alright, pal --- 
E #1 0-S- Just don't ste al anything. NIC, 301S, wearing a clerk-s apron, price gun, and plastic tag tha: says IC, rounds the end of the aisle. As he does, he spots - 
RUTH, moving down the aisle toward him. He freezes A nervous smile - He throws a quick look to the other aisle. 
RUTH No, I don't know, Matt. I don't know what you go through, or if you go through ything. But that's your choice, dear, not mine... 
MATT You're goddamn right it is. My choice is to not scream at the world. Maybe one of us has to be reasonable here, did you ever think of that? 
RUTH Reasonable? e, Matt, I don' t know about you, but I ss my son. I'm glad you have time for reason. That's what you imparted to Frank, That sense of reason - Oh, he thought you were very reasonable. 
MATT What the hell is that supposed to mean? She is about to say something, but stops short. 
RUTH Nothing. She turns back to the dishes. He moves in on her, seething. 
MATT What are you really trying to say anyway? She says nothing, picking up the broken plates. 
TT .that I'm the one responsible? She drops the pieces back in the sink and exits. 
THE HALL He's fast on her heels. She heads for the bedroom. 
MATT Let me tell you something. Let me tell you something! She throws the door closed behind her, but he bangs it open with his palm. 
MATT You of it backwards. I know what you think. That I was too lenient, that I let him get away with ... 
RUTH Everything. Everything! She exits into 
THE He's right behind her. 
MATT Oh, really?!? Why do you think he never came to you? 
RUTH He wouldn't talk to me, Matt. He didn't trust me. You made sure of that. 
LIVING ROOM. 
MATT Why would he talk to you, Ruth? You never listened! 
RUTH No. But you did. You were winking at him the whole time. You encouraged him. You wanted what he had. Her. 
MATT You've got to be kidding... 
RUTH You know it. Come on. You wanted it, and you couldn't get it - that's why you didn't stop him so you could get your kicks through your son. You know that's what happened. And now you can't cope with it. You can't admit the truth - To me, or to yourself - You can't admit that he died for ygur fantasy piece of ass. Matt, stunned, reels for a second And then, finally, explodes. 
TT You want to know why our son is dead, Ruth? He wasn't with her because of me, he went there because of you. Because you were so controllins, so overbearing, so angry that he was it, that he was our only one. 
RUTH That is not true. 
MATT It is! From the time he was little you were telling him why he was wrong. Everything he did was wrong. What was wrong with him, Ruth? She stares at him, dumbfounded. 
MATT You are so unfor ivinge You are. That's what he said. Ana you're playing the same shit out with me - That's a horrible way to be! Horrible. You're bitter, Ruth. You can point your finger at me all you want 
MATT .but you better take a good look at yourself first. She already has, of course. 
RUTH 
(WE ) I just wanted to talk about what happened, Matt. 
MATT You expect me just to open up to you? Embrace you? You scare me. How can I talk to you? I can't even look at you. They suddenly become aware of the DOORBELL, ringing, over and over. They watch each other, both reeling, both out of breath. The DOORBELL continues. 
MATT 
(COMPLETELY DRAINED) That's probably ... the police. 
THE DOOR Matt opens it. There is no cop, just Kristen Gellar, 12, a young gymnast who'd like to compete in Hawaii. 
KRISTEN 
(REHEARSED) Hi there. I'm Kristen Gellar from the Rockland Gymnastics Association - Today we're selling brand name candy. Each purchase is matched by the Tandy corporation to help us meet our goal of travelling to Oahu to compete in the East/West conference. Matt's in another world. He stares at her. 
MATT I... ...sure. I'll take some. 
(ENJOYING THIS) That's what I said five card draw - jacks to open - Carl? 
HENRY Asshole, Matt smiles. He's missed these guys. 
CARL I'll open with a dollar. 
HENRY Raise a buck. The bet's to Matt. He stares at his cards for a very long time. Willis looks to say something, when Henry hits his arm. This stops him. Matt looks up. He sees the patience they are all exercising for his typical indecisiveness. This bothers him. He stares back down at his cards. Stalling, waiting for someone to bust him. He looks u at Willis - Henry - Carl. They all sort of smile uncomfortably. He can't take it. 
TT Oh, for Christ sake say something! This wakes them up. 
MATT Quit pussy footing around me d 't! You just gonna let me stare at these cards all night!? No one wants to make the first move. This upsets Matt even more. 
MATT O.K. fine! He stares back down at his cards. Finally it is Carl who speaks. There are things of which I may not speak; There are dreams that cannot die; There are thoughts that make the strong heart weak, And bring a pallor into the cheek, And a mist before the eye. And the words of that fatal song come over me like a chill: A boy's will is the wind's will, And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts. Matt looks up from his cards into Carl's eyes. The two men regard each other. 
EXT. GRINNEL HOUSE - FRONT PORCH - NIGHT 
The game has ended. Matt says goodnight to Henry and Carl, as the two of them pull out of Willis Is driveway. Matt is about to leave. Just climbing in the front seat. When Willis puts a hand on his shoulder. 
WILLIS Come back in for a drink. 
I NT. GRINNEL HOUSE- ENTRY HALL - NIGHT Willis and Matt step back in, closing the door behind them. 
KATIE O.S. Honey, are you coming to bed now? Willis moves to the steps leading upstairs. 
WILLIS Soon baby, Matt's still here. 
KATIE 0.S. 11 %-?.: Oh f hi Matt - Hone , would you mind bringing me my pit s? They're downstairs from when the kids were here. 
WILLIS I'll be right there. 
I NT. GRINNEL HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT A few minutes later. Matt sits alone in the room. Be gets up to examine a picture hanging on the opposite wall. He's not particularly interested, he's seen it a million times, he's just killing time. A corner of the room devoted to Naval memories. A pristine version of Matt's U.S.S. CONSTELLATION cap serves as the center piece. Willis comes down from upstairs. 
WILLIS She's all set - now what can I get you? 
MATT I'm fine thanks. Willis nods and takes a seat. 
WILLIS - you back on the wagon? He is. 
WILLIS Sit down Matt you're making me nervous. Matt takes a seat. 
WILLIS I'm glad you came tonight. 
MATT Me too. 
WILLIS Boy, Carl really laid on the verse huh? 
MATT 
(CHUCKLING) ye ..ye he did. Got me thinking 
OUT- e stops himself. 
WILLIS What? 
MATT I don't know - sort of silly really. 
WILLIS C'mon what is it? 
MATT This thing with - with Frank when he was about three, I guess. We were over at my folkls house. 
MATT Mom always liked little dogs - this one was a - Pekingese, I think. I remember hearing this yelp, and then a scream. Frank ran out pointing to his finger. I looked at it couldn't see an thino. Mom said Frank must have "cornered the dog" and I knew she was probably right. We were driving home, and Ruth noticed Frank itching his a ..she pulled back his sleeve, and there were these two deep, bloody, puncture marks... 
WILLIS Why do you think he pointed to his finger? Matt shakes his head. 
TT 
WAITRESS No, thanks. Maybe some other night. He stands in front of his Brown Suburban, watching as the Waitress gets in her car, pulls away and leaves. 
RICHARD Fuckin' bitch. He turns and freezes. Matt Fowler stands a few feet away, an Ortaies calibre 7.65 automatic directly at Richard's face. His gloved hand poin grips the gun tightly. 
RICHARD Dr. Fowler? 
MATT Don't talk. Unlock it and get in. 
RIC He . wait a minute. Let's, let's just calm down... Matt COCKS the gun. 
RIC Alright! Shit. Richard obeys. He unlocks both doors. Matt opens the back door, but stays planted, the gun trained on Richard. Richard gets in the driver's seat. Matt climbs in the back. He presses the gun's muzzle against the back of Richard's head. 
V 0-, 
MATT Is there any one at your place? 
RIC 
(IRONICALLY) 
NOT TONIGHT 
MATT Good. Drive there. Richard looks over his shoulder to back the car up. Matt aims at his temple, but does not look at his eyes. Richard finishes backing up and puts it into drive. 
MATT Drive slowly - don't try to get stopped. 
EXT. PETER'S PARKING LOT ALLEY 
Matt can see the ocean. He uncocks the revolver. Matt cracks the window. Matt leans down in his seat. He transfers the gun into his left hand, removes the glove from his right, and wipes the sweat from his bare palm onto his pantleg. He puts the glove back on, gripping the gun. Richard's Brown Suburban drives down an alley adjacent to Fun Park and turns onto a deserted Main Street. 
INT/EXT. BROWN SUBURBAN - NIGHT 
They drive back through town, the sea wall on their left hiding the beach. on the right are the places, most with their neon signs off, that do so much business in s er: the lounges and cafes and pizza houses. The street itself empty of traffic. 
RICHARD He was making it with my wife. His voice is careful, not pleading. Matt presses hard with the muzzle against Richard's head. Richard flinches and moves his head forward. Matt lowers the gun to his lap. 
MATT Don-t talk. 
/EXT. BROWN SUBURBAN RICHARD S TROUT'S DUPLEX - NIGHT 
The Brown Suburban slowly pulls up to the front. Matt leans forward. Th. muzzle grazing Richard's head. Drive it to the back. 
RIC You wouldn't have it cocked, would you? For when I put on the brakes. Matt COCKS it. It is now. Richard tenses. He drives around the side of the building. 
EXT. RICHARD STROUT'S DUPLEX BACK YARD - NIGHT 
The Brown Suburban inches forward toward the garage and brakes. The engine shuts off. Matt keeps the cocked gun firmly trained on Richard. He gets out and shuts the door with his hip. 
MATT All right. Richard looks at the gun, then gets out. He moves across the grass. Matt closely behind, looking at the row of small backyards on either side of them and scattered tall trees. He glances from house to house. Looking for signs of one insomniac neighbor, some man or woman sitting alone watching the all-night channel from Boston. All is quiet. They move up the back walk and to the side kitchen door. Matt stands directly behind Richard as he opens the door. It-s pitch black inside the duplex. 
MATT Turn on the light. Richard flips the wall switch. in the light. Matt stares at his wide back, and long reach. 
I NT. RICHARD S TROUT'S DUPLEX - KITCHEN NIGHT Richard stops just inside the kitchen. Matt closes the door softly behind gim. 
MATT Where-s you r suitcase? Richard almost turns around. 
RIC My suitcase? 
Matt grips the gun tighter, straining to keep it from ling. 
MATT Where is it? 
RIC in the bedroom closet. 
MATT That's where were going then. When we get to a door you stop and turn on the light. They cross the kitchen. Matt can't help but glance at the sink and stove and refrigerator: no dishes in the sink or even the dish rack beside it, no grease splashings on the stove, the refrigerator clean and white. Matt becomes momentarily 2reoccupied with one of Duncan's drawings taped to its door. 
LOOKS DOWN AT RICHARD STROUT SQUIRMING ON HIS BELLY. KICKING 
ONE LEG BEHIND HIM, PUSHING HIMSELF FORWARD, TOWARD THE WOODS. 
MATT WATCHES DISPASSIONATELY. 
STEPS FORWARD, RAISES THE GUN AND FIRES ONE MORE SHOT. 
RICHARD STOPS MOVING. Matt stands there motionless. We hear FOOTSTEPS. Willis runs up to Matt. 
STOPS AT RICHARD'S CORPSE. 
WILLIS 
(BREATHLESS) 
MATT The two men look into each others eyes. Matt seems to be somewhe re else He looks back down at the body. 
WILLIS This isn't what we talked out, 
MATT He tried to run. Willis looks at the gun still in Matt's hand, the little suitcase in the other. 
WILLIS We were going to wait, and take him out in the woods. Matt raises his head. He looks at Willis flatly. 
MATT I coul °t wait. 
BODY - a d in a BLUE TARP, is suddenly dragged away by the ATV. It es quite a racket. We follow it as it scrapes along, the road back into the woods 
WOODS - They have roved the body from the ATV and are now draggin it deep into the wood. The only sound is the breaking of brans es and their continual grunting. The stop°at the top of a small knoll, panting and sweating. Wil is quietly removes a small mass of branches, revealing a o t large, well-dug hole. Together, they drag the body t he edge of the hole. Move behind it. Lift the legs, and push it in. 
THE WOODS - LATER - Willis and Matt come up from the woods. They carry Richard's lug age. Willis drops the canvas bags into the hole. Matt loo s at the suitcase and then drops it in. Willis takes a couple of steps away, and grabs two shovels leaning against a small birch. He hands one to Matt. Together, they begin filling in the hole. 
SAME PLACE - LATER - Matt holds the flashlight as Willis sprinkles leaves and branches over the hole. Willis freezes, as if he has heard something. Matt cuts the light. They hear some footsteps approaching, closer, then they see it - 
A DEER not 30 yards distant watchin them A Buck with a splendid rack, a deep chestsnowy white, a l of him in his prime His flag up d twitching. His eyes u Quin Then he bounds off and is gone. 
WOODS LATER - The walk through the woods. The light on the ground. They bot look up through the trees where they end at the lake. Neither of them speak, only the sounds of their hea breathing and clumsy strides through the low brush and over fa len branches. 
EXT. BOW 
Wide and dark, lap ing softly at the bank, a small island near it's middle, with black, tall evergreens. Matt, gun in hand, takes two steps back, he strides with the throw and goes to one knee as he follows through. The dark shapeless object arcing downward, splashing. 
T DIRT ROAD, T BROWN SUBURBAN. 
/EXT. BROWN S - TREVETT SWINGBRIDCD - NIGHT 
Matt in the Brown Suburban, is stopped behind the wooden and arm, Willis in his own car behind. The swing bridge is open for the 5:00a.m. fishing boats. The operator uses his long metal tool, the bridge swings back around. The arm rises. 
MATT Seems somewhere else. 
WILLIS 
WILLIS 
(ANGRY) C'mon g M tt. 
O A Matt drives the Brown Suburban over the bridge. The operator gives him a friendly nod. Waves to Willis in the Ford. 
EXT. WISCASSET BRIDGE - PRE-DAWN 
Willis's truck & Richard's S travel towards us away from Wiscasset. On their way to Cheesy Town Island. 
I NT. FORD - OLD ORCD STATION - PRE-DAWN Willis watches out his windshield as the Brown Suburban parks in the station°s lot. Matt gets out of the Brown Suburban and locks the driver°s door. Be walks the Ford, and gets in the passenger side. They drive off. 
/EXT- WISSC SET BRIDGE - S Willis's car moves slowly over the channel bridge, back to Wiscasset. Matt rolls down his window. Be tosses Richard°s keys over the side of the brad e . The trim shapes of lobster boats and smal craft anchored in t he hExbor below, loo like old toys in a bathtub, He rolls up the window as the car continues across. Both men silent, lost in thought, staring out the windshield at the road ahead. 
