"RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK" 
Screenplay by 
Lawrence Kasdan 
Story by 
George Lucas 
FADE IN: 
EXT. PERU - HIGH JUNGLE - DAY 
The dense, lush rain forests of the eastern slopes of the Andes, the place known as "The Eyebrow of the Jungle". Ragged, jutting canyon walls are half-hidden by the thick mists. 
The MAIN TITLE is followed by this: 
PERU 
A narrow trail across the green face of the canyon. A group of men make their way along it. At the head of the party is an American, INDIANA JONES. He wears a short leather jacket, a flapped holster, and a brimmed felt hat with a weird feather stuck in the band. Behind him come two Spanish Peruvians, SATIPO and BARRANCA. Bringing up the rear are five Yagua INDIANS. They act as porters and are wrangling the two heavily- packed llamas. The Indians become increasingly nervous. They speak to each other in bursts of Quechua. The American, who is known to his friends as Indy, glances back at them. 
BARRANCA (irritated) They're talking about the Curse again! 
He turns and yells at the Indians in Quechua, his anger giving an indication of his own fears. The party reaches a break in the canyon wall and takes the trail through it. 
When they emerge, their destination is revealed to them in the distance. Beyond a thick stand of trees is the vegetation- enshrouded TEMPLE OF THE CHACHAPOYAN WARRIORS. 
The entire party is struck by the sight. The Indians, terrified now, chatter away. Suddenly the three at the back turn and run, dropping their packs as they go. Barranca yells at the fleeing Indians and pulls his pistol out. He starts to raise his arm to aim but Indy restrains it in a muscular grip. 
INDY No. 
Barranca looks evilly at Indy's hand upon him. Indy releases him and smiles in a friendly way. 
INDY We don't need them. 
Satipo watches this confrontation with some concern. 
BARRANCA I do not carry supplies. 
INDY We'll leave them. Once we've got it, we'll be able to reach the plane by dusk. 
He turns back to the trail. Satipo gets the two remaining Indians moving behind Indy. Satipo and Barranca then have a fast, silent communication: Barranca indicates his desire to slit Indy's throat; Satipo gives him a look that says "Be patient, you idiot". 
THE APPROACH TO THE TEMPLE 
The party fans out to fight their way through the entwined trees that guard the temple. Visibility is cut to five feet in the heavy mist. Satipo extracts a short, native dart from a tree and examines the point gingerly 
SATIPO (showing Indy) The Hovitos are near. The poison is still fresh... three days. They're following us, I tell you. 
INDY If they knew we were here, they would have killed us already. 
The two Indiana jabber in Quechua, near hysteria. Barranca is sweating profusely, eyes darting. He yells at the Indians in Quechua to "shut up". 
In the undergrowth, there is slithering movement. 
Indian #1 draws aside a branch and is faced with a horrific stone sculpture of a Chachapoyan demon. The Indian is so frightened no sound comes out when he screams. He turns and runs silently away. 
Indian #2 calls to his friend. Getting no response, he steps in that direction. A huge macaw, flushed from the undergrowth, screams and flies away. Indian #2 does exactly the same thing, never to be seen again. 
INDY Forrestal. 
SATIPO (gulps) We can go no further. 
INDY Now, Satipo, we don't want to be discouraged by every little thing. 
Indy steps sideways into the chamber. His back pressed against the very points of the retracted spikes, he moves along the edge of the light beam, and steps clear on the other side. Satipo grimaces and begins sweating his way through. 
STAIRWAY 
Indy and Satipo come down stone stairs to a tight landing. Framing the entry are a carefully strung network of dead vines, each somehow hooked into the wall, narrowing the opening even more. 
INDY (taking torch) Let me see that. 
He lowers the torch to the floor of the landing. The landing is carpeted with human skeletons, one on top of another, all squashed flat as cardboard. Satipo gasps. Indy looks up at the ceiling of the landing, then steps onto skeletons, which make a cracking noise under his feet. 
INDY Try not to touch the vines. 
FOYER OF THE SANCTUARY 
The men are in a high, straight hallway 50 feet long. 
The door at the end is flooded with sunlight. 
SATIPO Señor, I think we are very close. 
Indy stands still looking at the hall. 
SATIPO (impatient) Let us hurry. There is nothing to fear here. 
INDY That's what scares me. 
They begin walking down the hall side by side. Satipo has inched a little ahead. Suddenly his lead foot comes down and through the floor! As Satipo begins to pitch forward, Indy grabs him by the belt and pulls him back. They both look down at the "floor". 
Indy swings his whip across the floor. Fifteen feet of it cuts open beneath the lash, falling away to reveal black pit as wide as the hall. The illusory floor was made of dust- covered cobwebs. Satipo picks up a stone and drops it down the pit. No sound. The two men exchange glances. Indy looks up at the high roof of the hall. He swings the whip up around a support beam, tests its strength with a pull and swings over the pit on the whip. From the other side he swings the whip back to Satipo, who throws Indy the torch. Satipo swings across. When they are both standing on solid floor there is a moment of quiet in which they hear, from far, far below - SPLASH! Indy wedges the whip handle into the wall and leaves it strung to the beam for quick retreat. 
THE SANCTUARY 
A large, domed room. Ten evenly-spaced skylights send their shafts of sunlight down to a unique tiled floor: white and black tiles laid out in a lovely, intricate pattern. Indy and Satipo stand at the door and look across the wide room at the altar. There, in the supreme hallowed spot, is a tiny jeweled figurine, Indy's real objective. 
Two torches, many years old, are in holders by the door. Indy takes one down and lights it. He gives the regular torch to Satipo. 
SATIPO There's plenty of light, amigo. 
Indy kneels and uses the unlit end of the torch to reach out and tap a white tile. It is solid. He taps a black tile. There is a whizzing sound and a tiny dark sticks in the torch. Satipo points to the wall nearby: there is a recessed hole there. 
SATIPO From that hole! 
Indy nods, stands and looks around the sanctuary. The entire room is honey-comed with the same kind of hole. Satipo sees it too and is properly impressed. 
INDY You wait here. 
SATIPO If you insist, señor. 
Torch in hand, Indy begins his careful walk across the sanctuary. Stepping only on the white tiles, he almost appears to be doing a martial arts kata. Before each big move he waves the torch in front of him head to toe, looking at the flame. Halfway out, he sees something on the floor and kneels to look at it. 
A dead bird lies on one of the white tiles. Its body is riddled with little deadly darts. This has great significance to Indy and he stands with even greater caution. He waves the torch ahead of him and at waist height an air current whips at the flame. Indy ducks under it and leaves a burn mark on the white tile beneath it. 
Satipo watches, wide-eyed and mystified. 
BELLOQ Dr. Jones, you choose the wrong friends. This time it will cost you. 
Belloq extends his hand. Indy looks at it, then produces the idol and hands it to Belloq. Belloq extends his other hand, smiling. Indy hands over his gun. Belloq sticks it in his jacket. 
BELLOQ And you thought I'd given up. 
INDY (eyeing the Hovitos) Too bad they don't know you like I do, Belloq. 
BELLOQ (smiles) Yes, too bad. You could warn them... if only you spoke Hovitos. 
With that, Belloq turns dramatically and holds the idol high for all the Hovitos to see and says something in Hovitos. There is a murmur of recognition and all the Indians, including Belloq's escorts, prostrate themselves upon the ground, heads down. 
Indy is immediately up and running toward the edge of the clearing. 
BELLOQ (in Hovitos) Kill him! 
AT THE EDGE OF THE CLEARING 
Indy disappears into the foliage. An instant later, the leaves are peppered with a rain of poison darts and spears. 
EXT. THE JUNGLE - INDY'S RUN - VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY 
Indy runs like hell through steadily falling terrain. And always close behind, a swift gang of angry Hovitos. Occasionally they get close enough to send a dart or spear whizzing past Indy's head. 
EXT. THE URUBAMBA RIVER - DUSK 
An amphibian plane sits in the water beneath a green cliff. Sitting on the wing is JOCK, the British pilot. Indy breaks out of some distant brush and runs along the path at the top of the cliff. 
INDY (yelling) Get it going! Get it going! 
Jock hops in and fires up the plane's engines. Indy reaches a spot on the cliff above the place, glances back, them jumps into the river. He comes up, swims to the plane and grabs a strut. 
INDY GO! 
Jock starts the plane moving across the water as Indy walks across the wing and falls into the passenger compartment. 
INT. JOCK'S PLANE - DUSK 
Indy relaxes and lies across the seat, a big smile on his face. One hand drops to the floor of the cabin and Indy jumps, hitting his head. On the floor of the cabin is a huge boa constrictor. Indy tries to get his whole body onto the seat. Jock sees what's happening. 
JOCK Don't mind him. That's Reggie. Wouldn't hurt a soul. 
INDY I can't stand snakes. 
JOCK The world's full of them, you know. 
INDY I hate them. 
JOCK Come on now, Sport, show a little of the old backbone. 
EXT. JOCK'S PLANE - TWILIGHT 
It soars off over the dark jungle. 
INT. INDY'S OFFICE, SMALL EASTERN COLLEGE - DAY 
It's autumn and the pretty, New England campus out Indy's window reflects it in dazzling color. A few weeks before the start of classes. Activity just picking up. Some students about. 
Indy is at a bookcase near the window and he looks quite different in this setting. His outfit is tweedy, slightly rumpled in the professional style. Part of his attention is focused in a book and he wears glasses to see the fine print. The office is cramped, absolutely inundated with books, maps, etchings and archeological artifacts. In fact, the only neat spot in the room right now is Indy's desk, which has been cleared off expressly for the benefit of - 
EATON (to Musgrove) Maybe Dr. Jones can make sense of it. 
Again the military men have a silent communication, deciding what to reveal. 
MUSGROVE Well... you must understand, Dr. Jones, this is all strictly confidential. 
INDY I understand. 
MUSGROVE Yesterday, one of our European sections intercepted a Nazi communiqué from Cairo to Berlin. We don't quite know what to make of it. 
Musgrove takes a sheet from his briefcase. 
MUSGROVE Here it is - "Tanis development proceeding. Acquire headpiece, Staff of Ra, General Tengtu Hok, Shanghai. Locate Abner Ravenwood, U.S." 
Brody is excited. He looks at Indy. 
BRODY Tanis. They must have discovered the lost ruins. 
Indy contemplates this big news; he's impressed. 
INDY (to himself) Tanis. Ain't that somethin'! 
EATON Frankly, we're a little suspicious... An American being mentioned so prominently in a secret Nazi cable. 
INDY Ah, Ravenwood's no Nazi. 
EATON Then what do they want him for? 
INDY They're looking for the headpiece to the Staff of Ra. 
MUSGROVE (indicates his sheet) But it says here that's in China. 
INDY Only half of it. Ravenwood had the other half. 
EATON What would the Nazis want with this - this Staff of Ra? 
BRODY I can tell you that. Over the last two years the Nazis have had teams of archeologists running around the world looking for all kinds of religious artifacts. 
MUSGROVE That's right. Hitler's a nut on the subject. Crazy. He's obsessed with the occult. 
EATON What is this Staff of Ra, anyway? 
INDY It all has to do with the Ark of the Covenant. (the Army guys look mystified) The chest the Hebrews used to carry around the Ten Commandments. 
Now it's the Army men who are impressed. 
INDY An Egyptian pharaoh stole the Ark from Jerusalem and took it back to the city of Tanis. A short time later, Tanis was consumed by the desert in a sandstorm that lasted a year. But before that, the Pharaoh had had the Ark hidden away in a secret chamber called the Well of the Souls. Which is where the Staff of Ra comes in. 
Indy moves to the blackboard and makes a quick sketch to give a rough idea of the system as he describes it. (and we get a glimpse of what an interesting and enthusiastic teacher he must be). 
INDY Now this was rather clever. The Staff was really just a big stick - oh, I don't know, say like this - (he indicates about six feet) no one really knows for sure. Any way, it was capped by an elaborate headpiece with a carving of the sun at the top. What you had to do was take the Staff to a special map room in Tanis - it had the whole city laid out in miniature on the floor. When you placed the Staff in a certain spot in this room, at a certain time of day, the sun would shine through a hole here in the headpiece and then send a beam of light down here - to the map - giving you the location of the Well of the Souls... 
MUSGROVE ...where the Ark of the Covenant was kept. 
INDY (nods) Which is probably what the Nazis are after. 
EATON What's this Ark look like? 
INDY Look like? Why, it's right here... 
Indy's manner is vigorous, aggressive. 
INDY Okay, here's the way it's gonna be. First, I'll high-tail it to Shanghai and get the piece from General Hok. Then I think I know where I can find Ravenwood. If only I can get - 
BRODY General Hok's a tough customer. They don't call him the Wild Boar for nothing. And he's tied in with the Japanese. 
INDY I'll worry about that when the time comes. My only hope is to find the Well of the Souls before the Nazis do. 
WIPE TO: 
EXT. IN THE AIR - DAY / NIGHT 
A Pan Am Clipper flies west over the Pacific. 
WIPE TO: 
INT. KEHOE'S CAR (SHANGHAI AIRPORT) - DAY 
Indy is barely into the front seat of a dilapidated Ford as the driver, BUZZ KEHOE, is peeling out into traffic. In the back seat is a Chinese named BANG CHOW. Kehoe zigs crazily through traffic with only his left hand as he reaches over to shake with Indy. 
KEHOE Buzz Kehoe, Army Intelligence. You've met Bang Chow. 
INDY What's the hurry? 
KEHOE Some German agents got here two hours ago. Luckily, Bang was able to have them detained at Customs. We'll have to hurry. 
EXT. HOK'S STREET - DAY 
Kehoe's car emerges from an alley. Down the block is Tengtu Hok's modest, walled palace. Kehoe's car slows a bit and Bang steps from the moving car with a small black suitcase in his hand. While he heads down the street toward Hok's place, Kehoe's car continues across the street and into an alley on the other side. 
EXT. HOK'S STREET - IN FRONT OF PALACE - DAY 
A Mercedes limousine appears round a corner and squeals to a stop at the front gate of the palace, which is manned by a sturdy Chinese Gateman. There are three Germans inside, one the driver. 
EXT. ALLEY BEHIND HOK'S MUSEUM - DAY 
Kehoe, alone now, pushes a trash container casually into position to hide a newly created hole in the rear wall of Hok's Museum where several stone blocks have been removed. He looks around and ambles back to the car. 
INT. HOK'S PALACE - ENTRY HALL 
The three Germans wait impatiently in a magnificent foyer. A chime sounds and huge double doors open to reveal TENGTU HOK, flanked by two uniformed Japanese Soldiers and a robed Chinese Advisor. He wears a fantastic gold ornamental robe. Despite the majesty, however, nothing can disguise the fact that Hok is basically a wild, fat barbarian; an animal. Hok and his escort group bow in what is the beginning of a long welcoming ceremony. The Germans exchange impatient glances but decide they should play it as it comes. They bow. 
INT. HOK'S MUSEUM 
No person in sight. Instead, we see a magnificent display of ancient artifacts. Glass cases hold the velvet-couched pieces at random spots on the shining marble floor. We hear an odd sound. Near the floor on the rear wall of the museum, a steel ventilation grate moves. A hand slides it gently across the marble. Indy sticks his head out and looks around. 
INT. HOK'S PALACE - TEA ROOM 
The three Germans are being served tea and exotic delicacies. A pleased Tengtu Hok watches from a throne-cushion. When the tray of tiny delicacies is presented to him, he takes a massive handful, crushing them together on their way to his smiling mouth. 
INT. HOK'S MUSEUM 
A huge golden gong, seven feet in diameter, is suspended from the ceiling by a hook. An enormous hammer hangs poised above it, from which emanate myriad tiny threads which run up and across the ceiling, then down to the various display cases. Indy looks up at the gong, then continues his quick, quiet foray among the cases. Beyond him, a high window. 
INT. HOK'S PALACE - TEA ROOM 
Hok and his visitors stand to go. The German's pleased expressions make it clear they're finally on their way to the museum. 
INT. HOK'S MUSEUM 
INDY (he's felt better) Great. Got it. 
Kehoe guns it, throwing Indy back against the cushions. 
KEHOE What now? 
INDY I've got to get to Nepal. 
WIPE TO: 
EXT. DC-3 IN THE AIR - DUSK 
The plane flies west into the sunset. 
INT. DC-3 - NIGHT 
Under a meager seat light, Indy is pouring over a journal article by Abner Ravenwood and related map of Nepal. 
A few rows back, across the aisle, a trenchcoated European Spy eyes Indy. 
WIPE TO: 
INT. "THE RAVEN" SALOON - PATAN, NEPAL - NIGHT 
A huge stuffed raven, wings spread wide, is mounted behind the long bar in the noisy, crowded saloon. A lively mix of patrons is represented in the late hour tableau: Nepalese natives, fierce Sherpa mountain guides, sleazy international smugglers and fugitives, and, of course, mountain climbers from every corner of the earth. A tall Nepalese, MAHDLO, is the bartender. 
In a corner near the fireplace trouble breaks out suddenly between the groups at two neighboring tables. Ferocious representatives from each table - one a wild-looking SHERPA, the other a muscular Australian CLIMBER - jump up to face each other. As the two contenders stand poised for action, their respective supporters shift in their places, fondling lethal ice axes and clubs. 
SHERPA Gmoiska! Shurga rintoik! 
CLIMBER Aye! That'll be your last word. 
The bar has quieted ominously and so we hear with startling clarity when - a door behind the bar slams open with a huge BANG! and some Presence, too small to be seen as it moves through the forest of towering patrons, makes a beeline for the troubled corner of the bar. A path clears for it. 
The Sherpa and the Climber are about to kill each other when the Presence arrives directly between them: she is MARION RAVENWOOD, twenty-five years old, beautiful, if a bit hard- looking. At this moment, however, that look does not hurt. She is not intimidated by the combatants; she jabs accusatory fingers into their chests. She is angry as hell. The patrons shrink under her gaze. 
MARION That does it! I've been patient with you no-goods long enough. I'm not open at 2 o'clock for myself, you know. It's all for you. And how do you repay me: Trouble and noise and blood on my floor! I won't have it. Everybody out! Out! Out! We're closed. Closed! Do your killing outside! And don't leave any bodies on the porch! 
The place clears quickly. Stragglers and grumblers are given special attention by Marion and Mahdlo, who has come from behind the bar carrying a big axe handle. Mahdlo herds the crows out the front door as Marion turns and walks behind the bar. 
A scowl on her lovely face, she has just begun clearing the bar of glasses when she notices one remaining Patron huddled over a glass at the far end of the bar. Grimacing in exasperation, she heads that way like a locomotive. 
MARION Hey you, deaf one! I said out of my place. I don't mean next Easter, I mean now - 
She is almost on him when Indy looks up smiling. Marion stops, stares, shocked. 
INDY Hello, Marion. 
She hits him with a solid right to the jaw, knocking him off the barstool on the floor. He rubs his jaw and smiles up at her. 
INDY Nice to see you, too. 
MARION Get up and get out. 
INDY (getting up) Take it easy. I'm looking for your father. 
MARION (bitterly) Well you're two years too late. 
Indy's attitude changes instantly. This is sad news. He is silent for a long time. Mahdlo comes in the front door and hurries forward when he sees Indy with Marion. He looks to her for guidance, but she stays him with a gesture. 
INDY Shut up and listen for a second. I want that piece your father had. I've got money. 
This stops her. 
MARION How much? 
INDY Enough to get you back to the States. Where are his things? 
MARION Gone. I sold it all. It was all junk. The junk he wasted his life on. 
INDY Everything? 
Marion nods. 
INDY (giving up) That's too bad. 
Indy feels tired, defeated. Marion is pleased. 
MARION You look disappointed. I like that. How's it feel? 
Indy has to smile at her glee. 
MARION (nods at his empty glass) What are you drinking? 
INDY Seltzer. 
MARION (refilling his glass) Real man's drink. Me, I like scotch. And I like bourbon. And vodka and gin. I'm not much for brandy. I'm off that. 
She pours herself another as Indy watches, amused. 
INDY You're a tough broad now, aren't you? 
MARION It's no act, pal. This ain't Schenectady. 
INDY I can only say I'm sorry so many times. 
Marion looks at him thoughtfully, takes a drink. 
MARION You really have money? You don't look rich. (Indy nods) I may be able to locate some of his things. I know who's got them. What do you want? 
INDY A bronze piece, about this size. In the shape of the sun. Probably broken off at the bottom. Has a little hole in it, off-center. Does that sound familiar? 
Marion thinks, nods slowly. 
INDY Do you know where it is? 
MARION Maybe. How much? 
INDY Three thousand. American. 
MARION (negative) That'll get me back, but not in style. This doodad must be pretty important. 
INDY Maybe. 
A huge smile lights up Marion's face. 
MARION I knew it would happen eventually. I knew it. Something had to go my way. (pours herself another drink) I've got to think this out. I'm used to bargaining with yaks. 
INDY Okay, five thousand. That's all I can give you now. I can get you more when you land in the States. 
2.) a trenchcoated SECOND NAZI. 
3.) a ratty-looking NEPALESE and 
4.) a mean MONGOLIAN. The second NAZI and the MONGOLIAN both carry submachine guns. 
BELZIG Good evening, Fraulein. 
MARION The bar's closed. 
BELZIG We are not thirsty. 
The Mongolian and the Nepalese poke around, checking to make sure there's no one else there. 
Down at the end of the bar, the medallion lies partially hidden by surrounding glasses and bottles. The Second Nazi stops very near it, but turns his back to it to face Belzig and Marion. 
MARION What do you want? 
BELZIG The same thing your friend Dr. Jones wanted. Surely he told you there would be other interested parties. 
Marion shakes her head. 
BELZIG Ah, the man is nefarious. I hope for your sake he has not yet acquired it. 
MARION Why, are you willing to offer more? 
BELZIG Almost certainly. Do you still have it? 
MARION No. But I know where it is. 
Belzig's smile fades at this news. He's not a patient sort. Marion is chilled by the look. She turns and moves to the shelf of bottles behind her, reaching high for one, very near the large stuffed raven. He hand lingers there a moment and we see - 
From an angle behind the stuffed raven, that the left wing spread hides a Baretta automatic pistol. Marion's hand is very near it, but withdraws with only a whiskey bottle as the Mongolian walks toward her behind the bar. 
Marion opens the bottle before Belzig, who watches her intently. 
MARION How 'bout a drink for you and your men? 
The Second Nazi lights up at this suggestion. Belzig gives him a withering look. 
BELZIG We will stick to the business at hand, Fraulein. 
MARION (tough) Fine. Why don't you come back tomorrow when Jones is here and we'll have an auction? 
Belzig gives her a cold look then turns and walks over toward the fireplace. As soon as his back is turned, the Second Nazi grabs the nearest whiskey bottle and takes a quick pull. In so doing, he leaves the medallion completely exposed. Marion is aware of this as she looks at him. But he quickly puts the bottle down again, obscuring the medallion, when Belzig speaks from the fireplace. 
BELZIG I'm afraid an auction is not possible. (pause) Your fire is dying here, Fraulein. (a beat, then threatening) Why don't you tell us where the piece is right now? 
MARION Listen, Herr Mac, I don't know who you're used to dealing with, but no one tells me what to do in my place. 
Belzig, still looking in the fire, sneers and shakes his head. 
BELZIG Americans! You're all alike. Fraulein Ravenwood. I'll show you want I'm used to. 
He motions with his hand. The Mongolian moves up behind Marion and lifts her roughly over the top of the bar, knocking over bottles and spilling liquor. He deposits her on the other side, where the Nepalese and the Second Nazi flank her and hold her cruelly, arms behind her back. Marion raises a ruckus. 
Belzig turns from the fireplace. In his hand is the poker, its end glowing orange. He advances on Marion. Marion stops yelling, her eyes widen in terror. 
MARION Wait! I can be reasonable - 
MARION (looking disappointed) Hey! Hey!... where're you going? 
INDY (dragging Marion on) He'll be OK. Come on. Come on. 
EXT. ANOTHER CAIRO STREET - DAY 
The Monkey is seen running around another corner and jumps into the waiting arms of MONKEY MAN, who appears to be like a beggar with a dirty turban and an eye patch. Monkey Man immediately hurries down the street and passes into a building. In the building are two GERMAN AGENTS. Monkey Man and the Monkey both give the Heil Hitler salute and engage in quick talk. 
Monkey Man quickly leaves the two German Agents and gets back to the street. He is obviously shadowing Indy and Marion. Indy and Marion are just now passing by the Monkey Man ducks back behind some baskets. 
EXT. ANOTHER BUSY CAIRO STREET - DAY 
Indy and Marion are passing under a balcony where a lone GERMAN AGENT stands watch. After they pass, the Agent nods to some BAD ARABS who are hiding in the shadows of the street. In a moment, Indy and Marion pass by the break. Monkey Man turns and looks up at a roof further down the alley. He waves with his hand. Someone up there waves back. 
EXT. A SMALL BAZAAR - DAY 
Indy and Marion have reached a tiny square, made even more cramped by its use as a small bazaar. They have started working their way through the crowd when several Bad Arabs and a German Agent begin to converge on them. Indy immediately sees what's happening and pulls the bull whip from his jacket. The first Bad Arab to reach them gets hit in the mouth by the handle of the whip. Now all hell breaks loose, with Bad Arabs, Innocent Shoppers, baskets of fruit and tables of goods flying every which way in the constricted space. 
INDY (to Marion) Run! Get out of here! 
Indy catches a dagger-wielding Bad Arab around the legs with the whip and flips him. Marion is reluctant to leave Indy. 
INDY Go, dammit! Go! 
Marion goes. She runs off between two buildings. A Bad Arab takes off after her. Monkey Man, now standing at the edge of the square, points at Marion. The Monkey jumps off his shoulder and follows Marion. 
EXT. BETWEEN THE BUILDINGS - DAY 
Marion runs along the narrow space and soon encounters a five foot wall. She flops over it. The Bad Arab is right on her heels. He reaches the wall and vaults over. On the other side of the wall, the Bad Arab lands in a crouch, looks ahead and doesn't see Marion. Immediately a heavy earthen pot smashes over his head, putting him out. Marion steps from an alcove and starts to run toward the street at the other end of the walkway. Suddenly another Bad Arab and a new German Agent appear in the street at that end. Before they can spot her, Marion retreats to the alcove again. There is a huge rattan basket sitting there. Marion climbs in and closes the top above her. 
The only witness: The Monkey, who is now perched on the fire foot wall. 
EXT. THE SMALL BAZAAR - DAY 
Chaos. An entire booth of pots and pans collapses on a Bad Arab and a German Agent as Indy whips away a support. 
EXT. BETWEEN THE BUILDINGS - DAY 
The chattering Monkey leads a German Agent and two Bad Arabs to Marion's hiding place, gesturing maniacally. 
EXT. THE SMALL BAZAAR - DAY 
Indy ducks under the swinging blade of a huge Arabian sword and kicks the Bad Arab Swordsman in the groin. 
EXT. SIDE STREET - DAY 
The German Agent leads the way as the two Bad Arabs carry the huge basket above their heads. The basket top has been fastened closed, but Marion is making a fuss inside. At the place where the street cuts across the far side of the bazaar, Marion is able to wedge the top open one inch and screams - 
MARION Indy-y-y-y! 
EXT. THE SMALL BAZAAR - DAY 
Indy has heard her. He looks across the square as the basket and its escorts disappear beyond a building. One last Bad Arab rises before him. Indy's whip flashes and the Bad Arab's robe falls down to his ankles. Indy frantically pushes his way through the panicked mass of humanity in the direction the basket has gone. 
EXT. THE FOOT CHASE - INTERCUTTING INDY AND THE MOVING BASKET - DAY 
The Bad Guys move the basket as fast as they can through streets, alleys and passageways thick with people. Indy always seems to round a corner just in time to catch a glimpse of the basket before it disappears around a new corner. Indy must fight a flow of humanity as powerful as an ocean riptide. Finally, at the head of one particularly crowded alley, Indy leaps up onto a wall for a clearer view. Whatever he sees gives him an idea and he cuts between two buildings rather than following the basket. 
EXT. DESERTED ALLEY - DAY 
There's a certain amount of truth to this; the recognition of it flickers across Indy's bleary eyes. Belloq sees it there. 
BELLOQ You know it to be true! How nice. And how ironic the timing. 
Belloq leans forward, eyes shining, voice suddenly different. 
BELLOQ Do you realize what the Ark is? (very intense) It's a transmitter. A radio for talking to God! And now it is within my grasp. 
INDY What about your boss, der Fuhrer? I thought he was waiting to take possession. 
Belloq glances into the gloom at the German Henchmen. 
BELLOQ (quieter) When the time is right. When I am finished with it. 
INDY I hope your friends are patient. Dangerous work, Belloq. 
BELLOQ Yes. Very. You may consider yourself fortunate that your involvement concludes here. 
INDY Tell me, did you get away with the idol? 
BELLOQ (negative) I was lucky to get away with my life. The Hovitos proved quite narrow-minded about the whole matter. 
Indy takes a drink. 
INDY You know, if it's God you want to talk to, maybe I can arrange it. 
BELLOQ (smiles) You have not changed. But, please, do not reach for your weapon until you are ready to die. 
The front door of the bar slams open and all nine of SALLAH'S CHILDREN scamper in and over to a surprised Indy. Two of the smallest hop into his lap. 
LITTLE SON Uncle Indy, we have been looking for you. 
LITTLE DAUGHTER Come home now, Uncle. Hurry! 
Suddenly the Arab patrons of the bar take an intense interest in the situation, shifting their weapons. 
INDY Yes. Yes, I'll come now. 
Indy stands up. The German Henchmen and poised. Belloq eyes the Arab patrons and signals for the Henchmen to relax. 
BELLOQ Next time, Indiana Jones, it will take more than children to save you. 
The children usher Indy out. 
INT. SALLAH'S TRUCK - IN FRONT OF ARAB BAR - NIGHT 
Indy climbs into the cab of Sallah's truck with a smiling Sallah as the children pile into the back. Sallah pulls out. 
SALLAH I thought we would find you there. (indicating the kids) Better than the United States Marines, eh? 
INDY (nods) Thanks you. (grave) Marion's dead. 
SALLAH Yes, I know. I am sorry. (pause) More reason than ever to beat the bastards. (he touches Indy) Life goes on, Indy. (indicates the kids again) There is the proof. 
Indy looks back there, nods. 
SALLAH I have much to tell you, Indy. 
INT. SALLAH'S HOUSE 
Two old trucks come down a narrow mountain road and onto the flat surface of the desert. 
Further out into the desert, the one in the lead, Sallah's truck, stops and the second one, Omar's truck, pulls up beside it. There are half dozen Arab Diggers in Omar's truck. Indy, dressed as an Arab, gets out of the cab of Sallah's truck and moves over to confer with OMAR, another old friend. They point off into the desert and reach some conclusion. Indy gives him a pat on the back; Omar turns off the road and drives into the desert with his workers. Indy hops back in the cab of Sallah's truck with Sallah. As they move down the road we see that the back of the truck holds three other Arab Diggers. 
EXT. RISE ABOVE THE TANIS DIGS - MORNING 
Indy and Sallah are lying in classic shouting fashion at the top of the rise looking down on the Tanis Digs. Down behind them, Sallah's truck is parked with the three Arab Diggers. 
INDY My God! They aren't kidding! 
WHAT HE SEES 
The Tanis Digs are laid out below like a painting. Trucks, bulldozers, Arab workers and German supervisors are everywhere. The excavations themselves are extensive and somewhat random-holes have been dug and then abandoned, foundations and passageways unearthed and then deserted. Beyond the main digs, a crude airstrip has been created. Sallah points to what appears to be a mound of dirt with a hole in it near the center of the activity. 
SALLAH There! That is the map room! 
INDY What time does the sun hit the map? 
SALLAH Just after eight. 
INDY We haven't got much time. Where are the Germans digging for the Well of the Souls? 
Sallah points out into the desert a short way beyond the main area of activity. The desert turns to sand dunes out there, the surface undulating into the distance. Several trucks and men are out there and a bulldozer is lumbering noisily toward it. 
INDY Okay. Let's go. 
EXT. THE TANIS DIGS - MORNING 
Sallah's truck drives through the camp, one of the Arab Diggers at the wheel. Indy and Sallah are in the back and look just like the other two Arab Diggers. Sallah's truck does behind a tent and when it appears on the other side, Indy and Sallah are gone. 
EXT. AMONG THE TENTS - MORNING 
Indy and Sallah move stealthily among the tents. Indy carries a smooth wooden staff almost seven feet tall. They stop between two tents and look across a path at the entrance to the map room. What appeared to be a mound of dirt is actually the roof on the ancient building. The hole/entrance is a five-foot square skylight. Indy looks around, then walks casually to the edge of the hole and looks inside. Sallah joins him, producing a length of rope from his robes. Indy drops the staff into the unseen map room as Sallah ties the rope around on oil drum. When it's secure, Indy wastes no time disappearing down it into the map room. 
INT. MAP ROOM 
Indy is down the twenty feet to the floor of the room in seconds. He tugs on the rope and it immediately gets pulled up. Indy looks around with real wonder and excitement. The room is lovely, with elaborate wall carvings and frescoes, all lit by the bright stream of sunlight flooding in from above. This beam of light leads Indy's eye to the far end, and the room's truly remarkable feature: built into the floor in meticulous relief is a miniature stone model of the ancient city of Tanis. Already, the sunlight has worked its way down the far wall and is edging onto the miniature of the city. On the floor, to the skylight side of the miniature, is an elaborate line created by embedded mosaic tiles. The evenly spaced slots in the line, each accompanied by a symbol of a time of year, are for the base of the staff. Indy pulls the headpiece from his robes - it has been welded together - and reaches for the staff. 
EXT. ABOVE THE MAP ROOM - DAY 
An extremely nervous Sallah has the gathered rope in his hands and is trying to appear casual as he inches back toward the oil drum. There is now a good bit of activity going on up here. 
JEEP GERMAN (O.S.) Hey! You, the skinny one! 
Sallah jumps about three feet. The JEEP GERMAN is standing in an open space ten yards away looking at Sallah. 
JEEP GERMAN Yes, you. What are you doing there? 
Sallah gestures his innocence. 
JEEP GERMAN Well bring that rope over here, you cur. 
The Jeep German starts back toward his major concern: his jeep is stuck in some sand beyond the next tent. Some Arab Workers are trying in vain to budge it. Now another German has backed his truck up to it. Sallah can think of nothing to do expect obey. With a worried glance at the map room, be begins untying the rope from the oil drum. 
INT. THE MAP ROOM 
Indy is examining the results of Belloq's work. Red paint marks one of the miniature buildings in the layout and a white calibrated tape has been strung from that building back to a miniature of the map room. Now Indy begins examining the mosaic base line for the staff. Sunlight has moves further down across the miniature. 
EXT. IN THE CAMP - DAY 
INDY I though you were dead. 
MARION They were throwing me around like a rag doll. 
INDY They must have switched baskets. Thank god for that! Bless those bastards. Have they hurt you? 
MARION No. Not since I got here. They just asked about you - what you knew. The Frenchman's got the hot's for me. I've been playing that along. Oh, Indy, get me out of here. 
Indy pulls out a knife and then stops suddenly, thinking. 
MARION What's wrong? 
INDY (putting the knife away) I have to leave you here for a little while. I know where the Ark is. If I take you out of here they'll start combing the place for us. 
MARION (louder) Cut me loose! 
INDY Keep your voice down. 
MARION (screaming) I said get me out of - 
Indy pops the gag back in her mouth. Her eyes widen in fury and she grunts obscenities at him. 
INDY Look, you don't know how glad I am to see you. And I don't like doing this. But the whole thing will be shot if you don't just sit here quietly. They haven't hurt you in the last twenty-four hours, they aren't going to start now. I'll be back to get you in no time. 
He kisses her forehead, jumps up and hurries out of the tent. 
EXT. SAND DUNE OUTSIDE DIGS - DAY 
With the digs behind them, Indy and Sallah run up to the ridge of the dune and over the top. At the bottom of the far side, Omar's truck is parked. Omar and his men are waiting. 
EXT. DIFFERENT DUNE - DAY 
This new spot gives Indy a higher, better view of the whole scene. Indy is using a surveyor's instrument to take a reading - 
WHAT HE SEES 
Looking through the instrument, Indy gets a line from the map room through the site where the Nazis are digging in the dunes to a spot several dunes over. We focus on that virgin spot of well-hidden sand as - 
INDY There! 
EXT. INDY'S DIG - DAY 
Omar's truck is parked at the spot just viewed from afar. Dunes rise on either side. One of Omar's men has been posted as a lookout up on a ridge. Everybody else - Indy, Sallah, Omar, and his men - have begun digging for the Wells of the Souls. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
SAME SCENE - NIGHT 
They continue to dig furiously, all of them drenched in sweat. The hole has grown but this is slow, back-breaking work. 
INT. COMMAND TENT - TANIS DIGS - NIGHT 
Belloq, SHLIEMANN the ranking Nazi, and Shliemann's Aide, GOBLER, come into the tent, which is full of charts and maps, drawings of the Ark, radio equipment, liquor and food. The men have been out digging for the Well all day. They are tired, discouraged, testy. In all matters, Gobler shows his alliance with Shliemann against Belloq with small looks and body language. The Frenchman has disappointed them and he is feeling the isolation of a scapegoat. Belloq gets himself a drink as Shliemann towels off his face. 
BELLOQ I cautioned you about being premature with that communiqué to Berlin. Archeology is not an exact science. If does not adhere to time schedules. 
SHLIEMANN The Fuhrer is not a patient man. He demands constant reports and he expects progress. You led me to believe - 
BELLOQ Nothing. I have made no promises. I said only that it looked very favorable. Perhaps the Ark will still be found in an adjoining chamber. Based on the information in our possession, my calculations were correct. Perhaps some bit of evidence still eludes us. Perhaps 
MARION I swear to you, I know nothing more. I have no loyalty to Jones. He's brought me only trouble. 
He wants to believe her. 
BELLOQ I cannot control them. 
Marion's frightened look shifts suddenly to the entrance of the tent. There are new arrivals there - Shliemann, Gobler and Belzig. Belzig carries a black leather case. He steps forward and smiles at Marion. 
BELZIG We meet again, Fraulein. 
EXT. INDY'S DIG - JUST BEFORE DAWN 
The sky is just beginning to lighten over the dunes to the east, making dangerously obvious the thin column of smoke rising from the entrance to the Well. Omar and his men are peering through the smoke down into the Well. 
INT. THE WELL OF THE SOULS 
Indy and Sallah are on the altar. Pushing together with all their strength, the heavy stone top of the protective chest begins to slide away. Indy and Sallah exchange slightly wary but very excited looks, then continue to push. As the Ark begins to be exposed, the air seems to almost vibrate, to become electrostatically charged. We hear what sounds like a low HUM. The sea of snakes around the altar draws back further from this presence. 
As the top of the stone chest is pushed completely off and slams down beside it, we see THE LOST ARK OF THE COVENANT. It is awesomely beautiful, breathtaking. 4 feet long, 2.5 feet wide and 2.5 feet high. It's height, however, is increased by the two sculptured gold angels mounted facing each other on the top. Though the body of the Ark is acacia wood, it has been overlaid with gold. An elaborate gold crown surrounds the top edge and gold carrying rings are attached to each corner. 
Sallah is mesmerized by the sight. His hand starts to reach out and touch one of the angels, but Indy grabs it. 
INDY Don't touch it! Never touch it! 
The wooden crate stands open next to the stone chest. Now Indy extracts the wooden poles from its rings and begins fitting them through the rings in the Ark. This takes some maneuvering by the two men, but soon they are able to lift the Ark clear of the stone chest and into the wooden crate. They extract the poles, fasten the top of the crate and stick the poles through the rings of the wooden crate. They start back toward the space under the hole. 
The fire strips have begun to dwindle, as have some of the torches. The snakes move slowly in toward the clear spaces. Indy and Sallah eye them nervously as they hurry along with their heavy load. Under the hole, they hurriedly attach ropes to the wooden crate and it is pulled up. Indy's concentration is on the tide of snakes. 
INDY Hurry up! Why did it have to be snakes? 
Sallah takes the next rope and climbs quickly out of the Well. Indy has picked up a torch and now throws it at a pool of snakes who are too close for his comfort. He turns and takes hold of the exit rope. He gives it a first tug and it falls down into the Well, landing partly beyond the ring of fire where is instantly disappears in a tangle of angry, hissing asps. Indy looks up at the hole. 
INDY What the - 
Smiling down at him from the perimeter of the entry are Belloq, Shliemann and Gobler. 
BELLOQ Why, Dr. Jones, whatever are you doing in such a nasty place? 
Belloq and the Germans laugh. 
INDY Why don't you fellows come down here? I'll show you. 
BELLOQ No thank you, my friend. (he glances around him) I think we are all very comfortable up here. 
EXT. INDY'S DIG - DAWN 
Sunlight is flooding this tableau: Sallah, Omar and his men are being held at bay by ten armed Nazis. The wooden crate sits safely nearby. Belzig and another Nazi have the gagged Marion held in their rough grasp. 
BELLOQ (down to Indy) After all these years, it is most considerate of you to aid me in this way. 
As Belloq speaks, Shliemann exchanges a look with Belzig. Belzig smiles and takes the gag from Marion's mouth. 
INT. WELLS OF THE SOULS 
Shliemann smiles down at Indy. 
SHLIEMANN I'm afraid we must be going now, Dr. Jones. Our prize is awaited in Berlin. But I do not wish to leave you down in that awful place... (he give a sign) ...all alone. 
Belzig and the Nazi move Marion to the hole and, to Belloq's surprise, push her in. Marion falls thirty feet screaming. Indy drops his torch, braces, and catches her! Her weight knocks him to the ground, almost into the snakes. She looks around at the snakes, clinging to him more desperately as he struggles to his feet trying to unload her. 
INDY You two get back to Cairo quick and get us transportation to England - a plane, a ship, anything. 
MARION What about you? 
INDY I'm going to get that truck. I'll meet you at Omar's. Be ready for me. 
Sallah nods. Marion looks at him like he's nuts. Indy jumps up, looks around desperately. 
MARION How are you going to get that truck? 
INDY (still searching) I don't know. I'm making this up as I go. 
He runs away between two tents. 
EXT. AT THE EDGE OF THE DIGS - DAY 
From among the tents, Indy suddenly bursts into view, happily astride a magnificent white Arabian stallion. He gallops off across the desert. 
EXT. THE DESERT (VARIOUS SHOTS) - DAY 
Indy cuts cross-country avoiding the road the convoy has taken. He leaps gullies, climbs dunes, slides down slopes. Soon the convoy comes into view far below him. He tears along a parallel ridge, like an Indian shadowing a wagon train. 
EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY 
The convoy is entering rougher country. The narrow mountain road we've seen earlier ascends ahead. To the side of the road are tall boulders. Suddenly, Indy shoots out from between two rocks and rides directly for the truck. The Armed Nazis in the back of the truck can see nothing because the canvas hides their view. But Gobler, Belzig and the Gunner in the rear staff car have a brief line on him. Belzig points and the Gunner fires away and Indy, the bullets kicking up sand near Indy's horse. 
The Armed Guard in the cab of the truck leans out to see what's happening. Indy has been riding alongside. Now he stands on the horse and leaps to the cab. In a second, he has flipped the Armed Guard out of the truck. He slides into the cab and begins grappling with the Truck Driver. The Truck Driver tries to hit the brakes, but Indy kicks his foot away and floors the gas pedal. The truck doubles its speed and shoots onto the steep mountain road. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY 
The Blond Driver of the front staff car sees the truck move up on him in the rearview mirror and speeds up. Belloq, Shliemann and the Armed Guard in the car twist around to look at the struggle in the truck. The Blond Driver begins what will be a continuing preview of the twists in the road. He turns his wheel sharply and takes the lead car around a bend. 
In the cab of the truck, Indy and the Truck Driver stop their fight temporarily and cooperate in turning the steering wheel. The truck barely stays on the road. 
A full view reveals the incredible geography of this ride. The convoy in tiny against the spectacular mountainside, the cliffs drop hundreds of feet. 
At the wheel of the rear car, Gobler swerves to stay on the road and accidentally sideswipes a boulder. The Gunner perched in the back is flipped head over heels out of the car. Gobler and Belzig are having trouble seeing the road through all the dust the convoy is kicking up. 
The lead staff car reaches the summit of the road and barely makes the hairpin turn there, delivering a destructive blow to the guard rail that has been placed there. The guard rail is now bent. 
In the cab of the truck, Indy and the Truck Driver again stop trying to choke each other long enough to negotiate the turn together. The bumper of the truck hits the broken guard rail and sends it flying off the cliff. The truck, however, holds the road. 
In the rear car, Gobler and Belzig are trying to see through the thick clouds of dust. Suddenly is clears completely. Unfortunately for them, this happens because their car has shot out into space at the hairpin turn. They are flying to their final reward. Belzig, eyes wide behind his evil spectacles, screams as he goes. 
In the cab of the truck, the Truck Driver is distracted by the sight of the flying staff car. Indy plasters him and he tumbles out. 
Far, far below, Belzig's staff car explodes on the rocks. 
In the back of the truck, a TOUGH SERGEANT takes command of the situation. He picks out six Armed Nazis and motions for them to start climbing around the outside of the truck to the cab. With some trepidation the lucky ones begin that maneuver. The truck is swerving like crazy. 
In the front staff car, the Armed Guard aims his submachine guns back at Indy, alone now in the truck's cab. Shliemann knocks the barrel roughly away. 
SHLIEMANN (yelling) If anything happens to that Ark, we're all dead men ! The Fuhrer will see to it! 
Indy sees this from the cab and reacts by speeding up, putting even more pressure on the Blond Driver. 
Along the back of the truck, Armed Nazis are edging up toward the cab, three on each side. They hang on as the truck rounds a corner and goes into a straightaway that leads through a short tunnel. 
In the cab, Indy has been concentrating on the lead staff car. Now, just before entering the tunnel, he looks in the side view mirror and sees the Nazis on his side. A quick glance to the other mirror reveals the others. As the truck sweeps into the tunnel, we see Indy just start to turn his steering wheel - he is going to sideswipe the walls of the tunnel 
MARION (after a long pause) Nothing. That is the way it is. 
He watches her closely as she drains her glass and puts it down. 
INDY Did I ever say I was sorry I burned down your tavern? 
She turns so their lips are very close. 
MARION No. Then again, I burned up that plane. 
INDY You saved my life. 
MARION And you saved mine. 
INDY Seems things have worked out kind of even. 
MARION That's the way I like them. 
INDY Maybe we should consider all past accounts closed. 
Marion thinks about this a long time. 
MARION No. Not yet. 
INDY What else? 
She looks into his eyes. A smile jumps from her lips to his. He kisses her and they sink slowly to the cot. 
INT. IN THE HOLD 
The ship's rats are agitated. They tremble and chatter at the edges of the compartment, darting about. Out in the center of the hold, sitting all by itself, is the crated Ark. HUM-M- M-M. 
INT. INDY'S CABIN - DAY 
Marion awakes with a start, alone in the cot. Something's wrong. The ship is quiet. Indy is strapping on his holster. He pulls his ship and jacket from a hook. 
MARION What is it? 
INDY The engines have shut down. 
MARION Why? 
INDY I'm going to find out. 
EXT. LOWER DECK - DAY 
Indy runs toward the bow, then climbs some steps four at a time. A MESSENGER PIRATE is hurrying to get him, but flies by him on the steps. By the time the Pirate stops himself, Indy is gone. 
MESSENGER PIRATE Mister Jones! The Captain he say - 
EXT. THE BRIDGE - DAY 
Captain Katanga is looking with concern ahead of the ship. Indy appears behind him. 
INDY What's wrong? 
KATANGA You have most important friends. 
Katanga turns quickly, pointing with a sweeping hand. Indy looks. Arrayed in a rough semicircle around the ship are ten German Wolf Submarines. All of their deck guns are manned and trained on the Bantu Wind. Worse, at least five heavily- armed boarding parties in rafts are closing quickly on the ship. 
THE WURRFLER'S CAPTAIN (earnestly) I think not, Colonel. Nothing is to be gained. We are not at war. 
Shliemann mulls this, then turns to the hatch. 
SHLIEMANN ...yet. Let the vermin live. We must be on our way. 
Shliemann disappears down the hatch. The Captain is very pleased. A Radioman speaks into his headset, then follows the other Aides down the hatch. In the distance the other subs begin to move away from the ship. The Captain, alone on the bridge, looks once more at Katanga. 
On the Bantu Wind, Katanga executes what might be taken for a salute. 
The Wurrfler's Captain smiles, salutes crisply, then goes below, pulling the hatch closed. Immediately, the Wurrfler begins to move. And as it does, we see the rail at the aft of the main deck. From nowhere, a wet sleeve appears and a hand grabs the rail! 
Indy pulls his dripping body onto the sub's main deck. He has lost his felt hat once and for all. Other than that, his outfit is the same as always, just wetter. Suddenly, water is washing over his feet; the Wurrfler is beginning to submerge. Indy runs through quickly deepening water toward the haven of the conning tower. Halfway there, he slips and goes down. Only by grabbing the base of the aftmast light does he keep from being swept away. He struggles to his feet and sloshes through knee-deep water to the base of the conning tower. 
Indy climbs the ladder to the bridge of the conning tower and looks down. The water is rising toward his fast. Indy climbs the ladder to the top of the turret and braces himself between the two uprights there - the 7 foot radio mast and the 20 foot periscope. Still the ocean comes up to meet him. Soon the top of the turret is under water and the radio mast is disappearing. Indy shifts his grip to the periscope, working his way up it and hanging on for dear life as the ocean whips at his body. The periscope is quickly going under. Indy hangs on to the top three feet, all that remains above. 
The forward movement of the sub continues, but, to Indy's slowly dawning delight, the dive stops. No more of the periscope goes under. Indy smiles; it's a pretty good smile, too, given the circumstances. Indy pulls out his bullwhip and begins tying himself to the periscope. 
EXT. THE PERISCOPE - AFTERNOON 
The sun warms that part of his body Indy has contrived to keep out of the water. The rest floats out behind. Indy isn't comfortable, but all in all, it's not as terrible as he might have feared. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. THE PERISCOPE - DUSK 
It's as terrible as Indy might have feared. He looks wasted. Waterlogged and exhausted. The wet leather of the whip is contracting and he must struggle constantly to keep it from cutting into his skin. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. THE OCEAN - NIGHT 
Several shark fins cut the surface, appearing and disappearing in the bright moonlight. They are shadowing - 
EXT. THE PERISCOPE - NIGHT 
Indy looks through barely open eyes at the sharks running alongside. There is nothing to be done. His eyes close. 
FADE OUT: 
FADE IN: 
EXT. THE PERISCOPE - NIGHT 
The submarine has stopped. The water is calm. The moon is bright. A gentle swell splashes Indy awake. He blinks, tries to regain his senses. He makes an inventory of his body. Surprised to find himself intact, his spirits lift. Some hidden reserve of energy flows through him. He frees his aching arms from the wet leather of his whip, leaving only one loop around his waist to hold him to the sub. He rubs his hands and stretches. Once again, he has survived. To fight again. He looks around. 
WHAT HE SEES 
A lovely island. No sign of man's presence. The sub has stopped at the mouth of a wide cove completely ringed by tall white rock cliffs. Suddenly the sub begins to move again. It is headed directly toward the center of the cliffs. Indy holds on, mystified, alert. When the cliffs are very close, the sub begins to dive. 
INDY Damn! 
He thinks hard. Inspiration hits just before the water. Indy flips his leather jacket up over his head and holds the jacket out in front of him. His head is hidden by the jacket as he goes under water. 
INT. THE UNDERWATER TUNNEL - NIGHT 
The sub enters an underwater tunnel that penetrates into the cliffs. Indy is held to the periscope by his crossed legs and the whip. His impromptu air bubble is working, but it's a struggle to maintain it. 
The sub begins to cut through think marine vegetation. Each dangling growth pulls at Indy's body and slaps at his leather bubble. Now a clump of entwined seaweed rips the leather out of his hands and his bubble of air rises away. Indy hangs on, holding his breath, but the vegetation gets denser. Finally, it pulls him off the periscope. The sub moves on, disappearing ahead. 
Out in the court, Shliemann has regained his eyesight. Now he crouches, scanning the scene desperately for Indy. He looks into the remains of the Tabernacle and spots the empty altar. Beyond it, the unoccupied posts where Marion was bound. 
At the entrance to the second train tunnel, Indy and Marion struggle to lift the Ark into a mine car. Marion has the submachine gun slung over her back. The Ark drops heavily into the bottom of the car. The noise attracts the attention of five water-carrying Nazis. They see what's going on and reach for their side-arms. Indy grabs Marion, pulls her in front of him - as though to use her as a shield - and flips the submachine gun, still on her back, toward the Nazis. 
He opens fire, turning Marion's body so he can mow all five down. 
Shliemann spins around and looks at the tunnel entrance. He points at Indy and Marion, who have just hopped into the mine car with the Ark. 
SHLIEMANN Stop them! Kill them! 
A dozen Nazis spin and look at the mine car. Marion is just leveling the submachine gun. Indy pushes forward the throttle and the mine car moves toward the tunnel, picking up speed. As the Nazis raise their guns to fire, Marion and Indy both open up, peppering the area with lead. As the mine car is about to disappear into the tunnel - 
INDY (to Marion) Get down! 
As the car disappears, bullets pock the entrance of the tunnel. Shliemann runs up with three Nazis. They jump into the next mine car and take off, disappearing into the tunnel. 
Over at the burning stack of goods, some terrified fire- fighters scurry away as the burning pile of general goods falls over onto the stack of cartridge boxes. The wooden boxes immediately start burning. Many of the Nazis just want to get out of there, but a couple of disciplined OFFICERS are trying to salvage the situation. They point to the far side of the court, the walls are lines with oil and gas drums. 
OFFICER We must cover the drums! Protect them from the bullets! 
INTERCUTTING INDY AND MARION WITH SHLIEMANN AND THE NAZIS 
We see a most extraordinary pursuit. This tunnel is of identical design to the first, except more twisty. This early section goes slightly uphill, as though headed for the summit of a rollercoaster. The low cross beams and the higher sections in between are causing the Nazis to alternately stand and duck in their efforts to get a clear shot at the lead car. One German times it wrong and gets whacked. Indy in unhappy with the speed of his car and he's right, the Nazis are moving faster and gaining. When both cars are in the same high section, the Nazis blast away at them. The noise is deafening, with barking guns, splintering rock, and twanging ricochets contributing to the din. As Marion fires a return volley low over the Ark, Indy kicks at the throttle, convinced it is jammed. 
INT. COMMAND CENTER 
The Officers are directing the placement of every moveable item in front of the oil drums. Desks, crates, chairs, food, all are heaped in front of the fuel. All the workers cast frequent nervous glances back at the burning cartridge boxes across the court. Suddenly the worst begins to happen at the cartridge boxes. Hundreds of thousands of live cartridges begin exploding, flying around the court like shrapnel. Hot lead begins to zing off the exposed fuel drums, leaving big dents. 
INT. TRAIN TUNNEL - LONG STRAIGHTAWAY 
The car with Indy and Marion looks almost sluggish compared to the pursuing Nazi car as they both make their way into an usually long straightaway. Marion discards her empty submachine gun as Indy kicks at his throttle and casts a worried look back at Shliemann. 
Shliemann, sensing victory, smiles evilly and carefully takes aim. Indy and Marion will be easy targets until they reach that approaching low cross beam, which is the crest of the rising tunnel. 
INT. COMMAND CENTER - CLOSE ON FUEL DRUM 
A fuel drum, already pocked by bullets is finally penetrated by high velocity hot lead. It explodes in a ball of flame. And then its neighbor. Then all is exploding flame. 
INT. TRAIN TUNNEL - LONG STRAIGHTAWAY 
Shliemann and his cohorts hear the explosions behind them and look back that way. 
Indy kicks the throttle one more time and it goes! Their car doubles its speed and shoots under the low cross beam at the same instant as - 
A huge dragon of all-consuming fire shoots up the tunnel behind the Nazis, catches their car and incinerates Shliemann and his men. The tunnel collapses in this section, burying the fried Nazis forever. 
INT. TRAIN TUNNEL 
Indy and Marion look back at the low cross beam as the last tongue of flame makes it there and then is doused by falling rock and dirt. They look at each other, then turn their attention back to their own predicament. Their mine car is going incredible fast as it moves into a downward section of wildly twisting tunnel. 
MARION Slow it down! 
Indy is already pulling the throttle. It moves easily. Unfortunately, it is no longer attached to the motor. The mine car is out of control. After several moments, far ahead, appears a circle of bright daylight - the end of the tunnel! It approaches at a frightening rate. Indy reaches out and grasps Marion's hand. They exchange looks and then turn to look ahead. 
THEIR POV 
We're taking this last stretch with them. It's a familiar nightmare. It has to do with a rollercoaster that ends suddenly and disastrously. The shocking brightness of sunlight rushes up to engulf us, blinding us in its glare. 
EXT. THE ISLAND - END OF TRACKS, DOCK 
