INDIANA JONES AND THE TEMPLE OF DOOM 
STORY BY: 
GEORGE LUCAS 
SCREENPLAY BY: 
WILLARD HUYCK AND GLORIA KATZ 
TM* & (c) Lucasfilm Ltd., 1984 
FADE IN: 
1.     INT.  "THE DRAGON" NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT                            1. 
A Chinese GONG SOUNDS and the glittering doors of an art Deco pa- poda slide open to reveal a mammoth silver stairway down which rows of beautiful women start descending   (BEGIN MAIN TITLES) 
The lovely ladies are a mix of races and they sing a strange, haunting melody -- one might think them a heavenly choir, if it weren't for their sexy, clinging lame gowns. 
2.     INT.  CLUB ENTRANCE                                             2. 
From the ethereal beauties, we cut to a street urchin's dirty face: SHORT ROUND is a ten-year-old Chinese kis wearing a beat- up American baseball cap. 
Sneaking into the club, Short Round weaves past the fancy gowns and silk suits, heading toward the music in the main ballroom. 
3.     INT.  THE BALLROOM                                              3. 
Short Round enters and stares across the smoky nightclub.  On the stage, he sees a giant paper-mache dragon laying curled around the pagoda. 
Now, the dragon's eyes light up, its nostrils exhale smoke and its enormous jaws open.  Out of the dragon's mouth walks the star of the stage show: 
WILLIE SCOTT, a dreamy beauty singing a sultry solo white the or- chestra wails the accompaniment. 
But Short Round's not here to ogle crooning dames.  He surveys the rich Chinese, American and European revelers.  Jewels flash and champagne flows.  Short Round finally spots a table of somber-looking Chinese men in suits. 
Short Round chews gum and stares at the men.  Then he turns to go.  WU HAN, a waiter with a scar across his cheek, watches Short Round leave. 
4.     INT.  CLUB ENTRANCE                                            4. 
As Short Round hurries toward the exit, he bumps into a man in a tuxedo entering the club.  Short Round looks up at the man, but we don't see his face. 
Then Short Round is grabbed by the scruff of his neck and a door- man hustles him out the door, Short Round yelling insults all the way. 
A maitre d' apologizes to the man in the tuxedo and two hat-check girls smile at him familiarly as he continues into the ballroom. We notice something incongruous:  the man in the tuxedo is wear- ing work boots caked with mud. 
5.     INT.  THE BALLROOM                                             5. 
The man in the tuxedo stops to watch Willie Scott singing sexily on the stage.  Then he looks around and sees the table of somber Chinese men that Short Round spotted earlier. 
As the man in the tuxedo walks toward the table, he removes a cigarette from a silver case.  He arrives at the table just as the chorus and orchestra reach a crescendo -- 
And on the stage, a glistening, muscular slave swings a huge ham- mer toward an enormous brass gong -- 
The man in the tuxedo leans to receive a light from a cigarette- girl and, as the GONG BOOMS, the match flares to reveal his face for the first time: 
It's INDIANA JONES.  Elegant in a tuxedo -- dressed to kill.  The TITLES END and over this a legend appears on the screen: 
SHANGHAI - 1935 
At the table, the four Chinese man in suits stare coldly at Indi- ana. 
LAO Dr. Jones. 
INDIANA Lao She. 
LAO Nee chin lie how ma? 
Lao's men laugh and assume that Indy doesn't understand his joke. 
INDIANA Wah hung how, nee nah?  Wah hwey hung jing chee jah loo nee kao soo wah shu shu. 
LAO SHE looks angry and his men's smiles fade. 
LAO You never told me you spoke my language, Dr. Jones. 
INDIANA I don't like to show off. 
Indiana takes a seat across the table from Shanghai's notorious crime-lord.  Lao is fifty, wealthy enough to now display some fat, but still muscular from his fight to the top of the garbage heap. 
LAO For this special occasion, I ordered champagne and caviar. 
Indiana looks at the pile of caviar on the plate in front of him -- and stubs his cigarette out in it.  The cigarette sizzles and Lao's smiles dies with it. 
There's applause as Wille Scott finishes her song.  At the table, Lao stares at Indiana with a strange intensity. 
LAO So, it is true, Dr. Jones?  you found Nurhachi? 
INDIANA Sure, I found him.  Then last night I had a little trouble. Somebody tried to slit my throat. 
Indiana looks across the table at Lao's son, CHEN, who resembles a bulldog and snarls like one now. 
INDIANA (Cont'd) It was dark, but I think one of your sons tried to get Nurhachi without paying for him. 
LAO You fool! 
WILLIE Ow, you're hurting me, you miser- able little hood! 
INDIANA Let go of her, Lao.  And give me the antidote. 
Lao just laughs evilly -- until a waiter moves up behind Lao and the crimelord suddenly stiffens.  He lets go of Willie's wrist and raises his hands off the table.  Chen stops collecting the money and jewels. 
Kao Kan tenses and Indy smiles at Wu Han, the Chinese waiter with the scar, who is standing behind Lao.  Wu Han has a towel over his hand  --  under it, he has a pistol pressed against Lao's spine. 
INDIANA (Cont'd) (smiling at Wu Han) I like the service here. 
WILLIE (puzzled) Hey, he's not a waiter... 
INDIANA No, Wu Han's an old friend I brought along. (to Lao) So, the game's not over. Put the antidote on the table, Lao. 
Lao carefully reaches into his pocket and puts a small glass vial of liquid next to the cash, gold, jewels, poison and sacred box. Indy looks relieved as he reaches for the vial of antidote -- then he hears a muffled report!  And another! 
Wu Han groans and sways.  Indy starts to stand but Chen immedi- ately turns the smoking pistol with the silencer that he used to kill Wu Han -- Indy sees it pointed at him now and he remains in his seat. 
Kao Kan stands and grabs Wu Han, easing the phoney waiter into the chair he just vacated.  The muffled shooting hasn't attracted any attention.  The nightclub activity continues an Indy speaks emotionally to his dying friend. 
INDIANA Wu Han  --  listen to me  --  I'm going to get you out of here. 
In pain, Wu Han looks at Indy and struggles to speak -- 
WU HAN Not this time, my friend... (smiling bravely) I followed you on many adventures -- but into the great Unknown Mystery, I go first, Indy... 
Wu Han dies and slumps forward.  Indiana is shattered by the death of his old friend. 
LAO Don't be sad, Dr. Jones -- you will soon join him. 
Indy's gaze shifts from his dead friend to Lao's sneering face. Then Indy sees the murderous Chen giggling perversely.  Indy's anger is compounded by the poison burning in his gut and his vis- ion of Chen's ugly face blurs into a double image -- 
Indy stands up unsteadily.  Chen assumes he's about to keel over from the poison -- but Indy suddenly turns and grabs a real wai- ter at another table.  The waiter holds a long skewer of roasted pigeons that he's just set afire -- 
Indy grabs the skewer of pigeons flambee and hurls is across the table!  Chen fires and misses -- and screams as the skewer stabs into his chest and the burning pigeons flame in front of his hor- rified face! 
This the other tables definitely notice.  There are screams and all hell breaks loose.  Indiana shoves past Willie and reaches for the vial on the table -- 
INDIANA The antidote -- ! 
But he's grabbed from behind by Kao Kan.  Indy elbows the punk, reaches back and grabs his head -- and somersaults Kao Kan onto the table! 
As nubmer two son crashes into the table, the impact sends the Emperor Nurhachi's ashes billowing into Lao's stricken face! 
Indiana yells as he sees the vial of antidote rolling across the table -- and falling! 
Indiana dives and catches the antidote just before it hits the floor -- then Indy's hand is brutally stomped on by one of Lao's henchmen and the vial rolls away. 
Indiana angrily raises his head, smashing it up into the hench- man's groin -- the man howls like a banshee and hobbles away. 
Meanwhile, Willie watches Lao grabbing for cash from the table. Willie lunges past the pigeon-skewered Chen to snatch the jewels, but unfortunately Kao Kan knocks them off the table as he leaps to attack Indy. 
Indiana scrambles on his hands and knees after the rolling vial. People keep kicking it -- he almost has it when Willie runs into him, trips and lands on her back. 
INDIANA Look out, damn it, I need that antidote! 
WILLIE Who cares?  Where's that diamond! 
Gunfire explodes and they both scramble in different directions. Indy dives through the fleeing nightclub patrons and slides be- hind a water-spewing fountain.  Water kicks up as Indy is shot at by Lao and his henchmen. 
Indy sees the vial of antidote kicked again and it spins across the marble floor -- feeling the poison, Indy shakes his head groddily and splashes water on his face. 
Meanwhile, Willie is chasing her diamond, shoving through the panicked crowd.  She spots the diamond!  Another elegantly dresses soman is bending to pick it up -- 
WILLIE (acidly polite) Excuse me, but I believe that's my diamond! 
Willie smiles and suddenly kicks the woman in the butt!  Willie reaches to get the diamond but not before the other woman tackles her. 
Behind the fountain, Indiana makes a break -- he runs and dives on top of a serving cart.  The wheeled cart hurtles toward an un- suspecting gunman, crashes into him from behind and sends him flying head first into a row of ice buckets. 
Nearby, Willie slugs the other lady in the jaw and grabs for the elusive diamond just as the ice buckets showers ice across the floor -- which camouflages the diamond! 
WILLIE Aw nuts! 
Searching desperately for the jewel, Willie sees the vial of antidote spinning across the floor --as it slides by, she grabs it. 
INDIANA (O.S.) Hey,doll!  Don't move! 
She sees Indy speeding by atop the serving cart.  Lao and his gunmen rush out to block the way.  Indy rolls off the cart and slides behind a potted palm as Lao's men open fire again. 
INDIANA (Cont'd) (shouting to Willie) Hey, don't go away!  I need that! 
Willie smiles meanly as she slips the vial down the front of her dress, thumbs her nose at Indiana and walks away. 
INDIANA (Cont'd) If I wasn't dying, I'd kill her... 
Hiding behind the palm tree, Indiana looks around and spots a gi- ant statue at the side of the stage.  Indy makes a break for it. 
As the gunmen open fire, Indy springs onto a chair -- jumps onto a table -- and leaps onto the stage.  He grabs the golden broad- sword from the Chinese warrior statue! 
As bullets smash into the statue, Indiana hides behind it.  Then he jumps out and swings the large sword toward the enormous brass gong. 
INDIANA (sadly) Wu Han's not coming, Shorty. 
Unaware of what happened at the club, Short Round thinks a mo- ment. 
SHORT ROUND Don't worry, Indy.  Short Round number one bodyguard now! 
Willie reaches for the extra ticket. 
WILLIE I'll take the extra ticket. (grabbing it from Indy) Where's this plane going anyway? 
INDIANA Siam. 
WILLIE Siam?  But I'm not dressed for Siam... 
12.    EXT. COUNTRY HIGHWAY - NIGHT                                   12. 
Leaving behind the squalid port, the Duesenberg flies along the highway through the trees.  In a moment, Lao's two sedans race by. 
13.    EXT.  NANG TAO AIRFIELD - NIGHT                                13. 
The Duesenberg swings around a curve and skids through gravel to- ward the airfield.  In the distance there is a small terminal but Short Round wheels the car toward the cargo area -- 
A two-engine passenger plane is revving its motors and the last passengers are boarding.  The Duesenberg squeals to a stop and Indy jumps out with Willie and Short Round right on his heels. 
A contingent of airport Military Police move to bar their way until WEBER, a heavy-set Englishman, runs up pufffing and shout- ing. 
WEBER No, no, they're all right! Let them through please. 
INDIANA Thanks, Weber. 
WEBER Dr. Jones, this is positively the last time our airline can hold a plane for you.  Now you must hurry! 
While Short Round grabs a small bag out of the car, Weber and a stewardess take their tickets and rush them all toward the air- plane. 
Meanwhile, the two sedans skid to a stop and Lao and his son Kao Kan jumpsout with their henchmen.  The puzzled military police advance on them usspiciously  -- 
Realizing he's outnumbered, Lao instructs his men to stay back and to put away their weapons. 
14.    EXT.  THE AIRPLANE                                             14. 
Willie and Short Round charge up the ladder and onto the plane. Indy pauses at the top of the steps to give Lao a cocky farewell salute.  Indy boards the plane and the co-pilot slams the door. 
15.    EXT.  THE AIRFIELD                                             15. 
The plane starts taxiing.  By the cars, Lao is buffeted by the prop wash as he angrily watches the plane roll away.  Behind Lao, his son, Kao Kan, stares at the plane taking off  -- a look on Kao Kan's face indicates that he hasn't given up yet... 
The plane lifts off the airfield, silhouetted against the clouds and the first light of dawn. 
CUT TO: 
16.    EXT.  THE DKY - MORNING                                        16. 
The sun flashes above the horizon and the plane banks through white billowing clouds at it heads west. 
17.    INT.  THE PLANE                                                17. 
A door opens at the rear of the plane and Indiana Jones exits wearing more familiar attire:  a beat-up leather jacket over a khaki shirt and a snap-brim hat.  He passes a dozen passengers as he moves up the aisle carrying his rolled-up tuzedo. 
In the first row, Willie is busy fixing her make-up.  Shorty sits in the seat across the aisle from her.  Indy comes up and drops his tuxedo onto the floor. 
Willie sees him hook his coiled bullwhip over a coat-peg. 
WILLIE So, what're you supposed to be, a lion tamer? 
INDIANA Since I was nice enough to let you tag along, why don't you give your mouth a rest?  Okay, doll? 
Indy pats her leg -- she removes his hand and reaches down and picks up his tuxedo coat.  She slips it on. 
WILLIE I'm freezing.  What do you mean, tag along?  From the minute you walked into that nightclub, you haven't been able to keep your eyes off me. 
INDIANA Oh yeah? 
He smiles and tips his hat down over his eyes to go to sleep... 
18.    INT.  THE COCKPIT                                              18. 
At the same moment, the Chinese co-pilot tips his hat up off his eyes -- and looks scared to death!  He exclaims in Chinese -- 
CO-PILOT (*subtitled*) Good lord! 
He and the pilot see two biplanes materialize out of the clouds and dive directly toward them!  Suddenly, machine gunfire erupts! 
PILOT (*subtitled) Dive for the clouds!  Dive! 
19.    EXT.  THE SKY - DAY                                            19. 
The DC-3 banks into the clouds as the two biplanes attack.  In the back seat of the first biplane, we see Kao Kan watching the DC-3 like a hawk about to bring down a sparrow. 
20.    INT.  THE COCKPIT                                              20. 
The biplanes swoop past both sides of the plane and bursts of gunfire rip along the fuselage. 
CO-PILOT (*subtitled) They hit a fuel line! 
As the first fighter appears off their side, Short Round blasts out the open door!  The machine gun explodes to life, chewing bullets, smoking and spitting shells at Willie -- 
Willie hollers terrified by manages to feed the ammo belt as Short Round sights the blazing machine gun -- suddenly he shoops! 
Willie sees the fighter hit -- it smokes and veers away -- and then EXPLODES! 
SHORT ROUND I get it! 
WILLIE You got it! 
The second plane swoops down and Short Round blasts away.  This time as he swivels the gun, he misses and hits one of the DC-3's own engines and it explodes! 
SHORT ROUND Oh oh -- big mistake! 
28.    INT.  THE COCKPIT                                              28. 
Trying to figure out the controls, Indy looks up to see their en- gine explose into flames -- 
INDIANA (angrily) Short Round, what in the hell are you doing? 
Suddenly the DC-3 emerges out of a cloud and Indy sees they are headed directly for a mountain!  He pulls back hard on the con- trols as a rocky peak looms lethally in front of them. 
29.    EXT.  THE SKY - DAY                                            29. 
The DC-3 lifts at the last second and smashes some snow off the uppermost pinnacle as it clears the mountain by inches! 
Kao Kan's fighter is glued to the DC-3's tail and continues to strafe -- but the fighter pilot pulls up too late -- and the fighter explodes as it hits the peak of the mountain! 
30.    INT.  THE PASSENGER CABIN                                      30. 
Indy rushes out of the smoking cockpit to find Willie and Short Round crawling out from under the debris that's fallen on them. Then Indy spots something in the wreckage -- 
He pulls at some yellow canvas and Willie sees as sign: EMERGENCY LIFE RAFT.  Indy drags the folded canvas over to the open door. 
WILLIE Are you crazy, a lift raft?!  We're not sinking, we're crashing! 
INDIANA Get over here, damn it!  Short Round, come on, grab onto me tight! 
Willie sees Short Round rush over to Indiana and grab him around the waist from behind.  Willie finally jumps up and runs over -- 
WILLIE Wait for me! 
She throws her arms around Indy's neck so that she and Shorty are both hugging him from behind.  Indy clutches the folded lift raft in front of him and surveys the mountainside rushing close be- neath the skinking airplane -- 
Finally, an instant before the plane will hit, Indy dives and pulls the inflation cord! 
31.    EXT.  THE SKY                                                  31. 
As the smoking DC-3 screams out of control toward the mountain, skimming the rocky snow-covered slopes, we see the lift raft spilling out the open door -- 
The raft pops into its full shape, acting now as a spoiler, soar- ing against the rushing wind and finally crashing and bouncing against the snowy mountainside. 
In the distance, we see the DC-3 finally kiss the earth and ex- plode in a cloud of flame against a rocky escarpment -- metal and earth mushrooming in a million directions! 
32.    EXT.  THE MOUNTAINSIDE                                         32. 
As the raft rockets down the snow, Indiana clutches the front and Willie and Short Round hold on for dear life on either side of him. 
The raft plummets down the mountain, crossing the timber-line and entering a forest.  Bouncing over a snow-hidden log, the raft shoots directly for a tree -- 
Indiana pulls on the perimeter rope, rolls on his side and man- ages to swerve the raft so it caroms offthe snow-drifted side of the tree trunk. 
Continuing its downhill run, the raft smashes across a small steam, sending silvery water spraying. 
As the raft skids below the snow-level, it starts bouncing over rocky ground and its three passengers' teeth start chattering. 
33.    EXT.  A BLUFF                                                  33. 
The yellow raft crashes through a tangle of bushes and then plum- mets toward a bluff!  The raft goes airborne over a small bluff and lands with a splash in a slow-moving river. 
34.    EXT.  THE RIVER                                                34. 
The life raft drifts down the river and Indy looks around and smiles cockily at Willie and Short Round -- 
Their faces don't show gratitude, but horror -- Indy hears some- thing and turns to see: 
35.    EXT.  WHITE WATER RAPIDS                                       35. 
The raft is heading directly toward a surging stretch of treach- erous rapids.  Indiana looks less cocky as he and Willie and Short Round hold on again for dear life! 
The raft plunges into the roaring torrent, bouncing over rock- swollen waves, twisting and spinning through narrow gaps.  The three helpless passengers are drenched in the thundering cascades of white water. 
Willie is hallering, Short Round hangs on wide-eyed and even Indy looks terrified as the raft crashes down the rapids.  Finally, after one heart-stopping bounce, the raft seems to slow. 
36.    EXT.  RIVER CLEARING                                           36. 
The raft drifts out of the main part of the river and glides to- ward a clearing.  Its three soaked and bedraggled passengers lie motionless in the bottom. 
Indy's hand drags alongside the raft, his fingers leaving a trail in the almost still water.  Battered and exhausted, but always Indy's "bodyguard", Shorty looks over at him worriedly -- 
SHORT ROUND Indy? 
INDIANA Okay, Shorty. 
INDIANA Hasn't the Pankot palace been de- serted since the Mutiny of 1857? 
SHAMAN (darkly) No. Now there is new Maharajah -- and palace is powerful again. 
The shaman looks around at his unfortunate people. 
SHAMAN (Cont'd) It is Pankot Palace that kills my village. 
INDIANA I don't understand.  What's hap- pened here? 
SHAMAN The evil starts in Pankot.  Then like monsoon, it moves darkness over all country. 
INDIANA What evil? 
SHAMAN They came from Palace and took sivalinga from out village. 
Willie looks over at Indiana -- 
WILLIE Took what? 
INDIANA It's a sacred stone in a shine that's supposed to protect a village. 
SHAMAN It is why Krishna brought you here. 
INDIANA (politely firm) Nobody brought us here.  Our plane crashed.  We were shot down by -- 
SHAMAN (interrupting) No.  We pray to Krishna to help us find the stone.  It was Krishna who made you fall from sky -- so you can got to Pankot Palace.  To find siva- linga -- and bring back to us. 
Indy's about to object -- then he looks at the sad chieftain, the elders and peasants who are watching him helplessly.  And he sees again the dark steady eyes of the old shaman. 
CUT TO: 
40.    EXT.  MAYAPORE VILLAGE - NIGHT                                 40. 
Torches falre eerily and dogs howl as the peasants accompany the shaman, elders and three visitors out ot the edge of the dark village.  Short Round walks beside Indy. 
SHORT ROUND Indy, they make out plane crash? To get you here? 
INDIANA It's just superstition, Shorty. Like a ghost story. 
Short Round looks plenty scared as they all stop walking.  The shaman motions and the men with torches circle around a pile of rocks to illuminate them.  The shaman makes a gesture of devotion to the primitive shrine and Indy speaks to the village chieftain. 
CHIEFTAIN Yes. 
Indiana seems skeptical as he kneels to study the shrine.  On top of the pile of rocks, there is a carved niche.  The niche is empty but an indentation indicates the conical shape of the stone that was stolen. 
INDIANA Was the stone very smooth? (he sees the chieftain nod) It was probably brought here from a sacred river. 
SHAMAN (joining Indy and the chieftain) Long ago -- before my father's father. 
INDIANA And it had three lines painted across it? (seeing the shaman nod) The lines represent the three levels of the universe.  I've seen stones like the one you lost. 
Indy stands slowly.  Willie is beside him looking at the shrine. 
WILLIE I don't understand how losing one rock could destroy this village. (whispering to Indy) Is it really powerful? 
Indy gives a doubtful smile.  He turns again to the old shaman. 
INDIANA But why would the Maharajah take this sacred stone? 
SHAMAN They say we must pray to their evil god.  We say we will not. 
The old shaman looks off and fights the tears in his eyes as he starts speaking in Hindi. 
INDIANA (translating) He says that when the sacred stone was taken the village wells dried up first and then the river stopped. 
Indy turns and asks the shaman a question in Hindi.  The shaman answers in Hindi. 
INDIANA (translating) He says their crops dies and then the animals died. 
The shaman walks to the edge of the torchlight and looks out into the darkness as he continues speaking emotionally in Hindi -- 
INDIANA (translating) And then they took their children. 
WILLIE Their children? 
She looks at Short Round and finally understands the sorrowful faces always watching him.  Indy asks another question in Hindi and the shaman continues his story -- 
INDIANA (translating) He says one night there was a fire in the fields.  The men went to fight it.  When they came back, they heard the women crying in the darkness.  And the children were gone. 
The shaman walks slowly toward Indiana. 
SHAMAN You will find them when you find sivlalinga. 
INDIANA I'm sorry, I don't know how I can help you here. 
The shaman and the chieftain stare and Indiana, refusing to accept that. 
INDIANA (Cont'd) The English authorities who con- trol this area are the only ones who can help you. 
CHIEFTAIN They do not listen. 
INDIANA I have friends in Delhi and I will make sure they investigate this... 
CUT TO: 
46.    EXT.  THE COUNTRYSIDE - DAY                                    46. 
The elephants move across the desolate countryside toward the distant hills. 
47.    EXT.  THE TRAIL                                                47. 
Indiana rides the lead elephant.  Sajnu passes on foot guiding Willie's elephant.  With the tuxedo jacket wrapped around her waist, Willie is dabbing perfume behind her ears. 
WILLIE (to her elephant) I think you need this more than me. 
Willie leans forward and puts perfume behind the elephant's ears. Grimacing at the animal's smell she simply dumps the rest of the perfume on the elephant's back. 
Willie yelps when the elephant's trunk comes back, sniffs the foriegn fragrance and suddenly trumpets in disgust. 
WILLIE (Cont'd) What're you complaining about, this is expensive stuff! 
CUT TO: 
48.    EXT.  LOWER JUNGLES - DAY                                      48. 
From a cliff, we see the elephants below passing into the lower jungles. 
Spotting something on an overhanging tree branck, Short Round stands up precariously on the baby elephant's back.  He pulls a vine from the tree as they pass under it.  Plopping down onto the baby elephant's back, he picks the wild fruit from the vine -- 
SHORT ROUND Here you go, lunch time! 
The baby elephant's trunk comes back and takes the fruit.  Shorty looks up in the sky. 
SHORT ROUND (Cont'd) Indy, look! 
Indiana and Willie look up and see hundreds of enormous winged creatures flapping across the afternoon sky. 
WILLIE Those are very big bird. 
Sajnu says something and Indiana nods. 
INDIANA Those aren't birds -- those are giant bats. 
Willie shudders as she watches the bats. 
CUT TO: 
49.    EXT.  THE HILLS - AFTERNOON                                    49. 
An enormous sun silhouettes the three elephants trekking west- ward. 
CUT TO: 
50.    EXT.  A RIVER - LATER AFTERNOON                                50. 
The three elephants stand sucking up river water with their trunks.  Seated on the huge beasts, Willie, Short Round and Indi- ana watch the thirsty animals. 
WILLIE They must be pretty dumb to drink that awful-looking water. 
In response, Willie's elephant calmly lifts its trunk and sprays her in the face.  Short Round and Indy laugh as Willie sits soaked and shocked. 
INDIANA I think maybe we'll camp here. 
CUT TO: 
51.    EXT.  THE RIVER - SUNSET                                       51. 
A plume of water sprays.  The three elephants submerge in a deep, wide spot in the river.  Indy wades in the current with his shirt off.  He and the guide splash water on the weary animals. 
Short Round laughs and plays with the baby elephant.  Wrapped in its trunk, he's swung in the air and lands on the elephant's back.  Shorty makes a swan dive back into the water and the baby elephant gives him a shower when he surfaces. 
52.    EXT.  UPRIVER                                                  52. 
Thirty yards upstream, birds and monkeys chatter in a tree.  In the shady river beneath, Willie surfaces cooly and wipes hair from her eyes.  She hums contendedly. 
Indiana wanders up the riverbank in his dripping trousers.  He notices Willie's wet clothes spread over a tree limb hanging low over the water and then he sees Willie paddling around. 
INDIANA Hey, Willie -- I think you better get out now. 
WILLIE Stark naked?  You wish... If you're trying to seduce me, Dr. Jones, this is a very primitive approach. 
INDIANA Me seduce you?  Honey, you're the one who took your clothes off. (shrugging) I just came over to remind you that you never know what else might be in the water. 
WILLIE Somehow I feel safer in here. 
As Indy turns and starts off, Willie reaches up to the tree branch above her head and grabs her underwear.  At this moment we notice something awful: 
A BOA CONSTRICTOR is moving out along the branch, the enormous snake slithering over Willie's clothes. 
Willie watches Indiana walk away as she reaches up for her dress -- her hands feel something strange -- not the dress and not the tree limb -- 
Willie looks up and sees that she's pulling on a snake! She SCREAMS as the boa constrictor falls off the t-ee on top of her! 
Indy hears the scream and hears Willie calling to him.  He runs back toward the river.  Stopping on the riverbank, he sees Willie backing away in the water -- Indiana's already starting to pull his boots off -- 
WILLIE Indy!  Help me! 
Then, a tall severe-looking Indian in an English suit material- izes out of the shadows and comes forward slowly.  CHATTAR LAL appraises the intruders suspiciously: 
He sees a whoozy beauty in a weary evening gown;  a dirty Chinese kid with a baseball cap; a rugged-looking American carrying a bullwhip... 
CHATTAR LAL I would say you look rather lost. (disdainfullt) But then I cannot imagine where in the world the three of you would look at home... 
INDIANA (smiling evenly) Lost?  No, we're not lost.  We're on our way to Delhi.  This is Miss Scott -- and Mr. Round.  My name's Indiana Jones. 
CHATTAR LAL (surprised) Dr. Jones?  The eminent archae- ologist? 
WILLIE Hard to believe, isn't it...? 
CHATTAR LAL I remember first hearing your name when I was studying at Oxford.  I Am Chattar Lal, Prime Minister for His Highness the Maharajah of Pankot. 
He bows and Willie sort of curtsies. 
CHATTAR LAL (Cont'd) Welcome to Pankot Palace. 
59.    INT.  PANKOT PALACE - AFTERNOON                                59. 
They walk along the marble halls, past dazzling walls inlaid with pieces of mirror and semi-precious stones.  Fountains spray in ivory countyards and they gaze in awe at the ornate splendour. 
As Willie walks with Shorty she appraises the chronolgoical portraits of the Pankot Prices that line the hall.  Dissipated faces, elegant faces, evil faces -- she reacts to them. 
WILLIE (to Short Round) How'd you like to run into him in a dark alley...that one's kind of cute...I could see myself married to a prince like that... 
Ahead of them Chattar Lal  walks with Indy and questions him suspiciously -- 
CHATTAR LAL The plane crash and your journey here sound -- most incredible. 
WILLIE You should have been there... 
INDIANA We'd appreciate it if the Mahara- jah would let us stay tonight. We'll be on out way in the morn- ing. 
CHATTAR LAL I am only his humble servant, but the Maharajah usually listens to my advice. 
WILLIE Is that him? 
They've come to the last in the row of Princes portraits.  Wil- lie stops and looks up disappointedly at a picture of an aged, immensely corpulent Rajput prince. 
WILLIE (Cont'd) (politely) He's not exactly what we call "a spring chicken". 
CHATTAR LAL No, no, that is Uhmed Singh, the present Maharajah's late father. 
WILLIE Oh -- good.  And maybe the pres- ent Marahajah is a little younger? And thinner? 
Two female servants approach silently and bow. 
CHATTAR LAL They will escort you to your rooms now.  You will be provided with fresh clothes.  Tonight you will be dining with His Highness. 
WILLIE Dinner?  And with a prince?!  My luck is changing.  But look at me -- my god, I've to to get ready! 
She hurried off with one of the servants toward her room.  Chat- tar Lal smiles cooly at Indiana -- 
CHATTAR LAL Eight o'clock in the Pleasure Pavilion. 
CUT TO: 
60.    EXT.  THE PLEASURE PALIVION - NIGHT                            60. 
An extraordinary gold dome rises in the middle of the eleaborate gardens.  The Pleasure Pavilion is ablaze with torch lights, flickering candles and exotic music. 
Indiana comes out of the palace with Short Round.  Indy has on a tweed jacket and a nectie -- his university professor's outfit. Short Round has been cleaned up, but still sports his baseball cap. 
Willie joins them, looking stunning is a silk Western-styled gown.  She's also been loaned some Moghul jewelry which sparkles on her neck and arms. 
INDIANA You look like a princess. 
Willie's flattered by the first nice thing Indy's said to her. 
WILLIE It's sort of like being in heaven. 
They cross the garden toward the pavilion and Willie's eyes are like a kid's at Christmas. 
61.    INT.  THE PLEASURE PAVILION                                    61. 
As they enter, Indiana gives a half-dressed dancing girl the once-over as she spins to the music of drums and "vinhas". 
INDIANA (smiling) I've always had a weakness for folk dancing. 
WILLIE (snidely) She might get away with that act here, but she'd never make it in a real nightclub. 
They walk among the rich court ministers and Indian merchants. Chattar Lal approaches with a British cavalry captain in unifrom. 
CHATTAR LAL We are fortunate tonight to have some many unexpected guests.  his is Captain Phillip Blumburtt. 
Blumburtt bows to Willie and Indiana. 
CHATTAR LAL (Cont'd) Captain Blumburtt and his troops are here to check up on the "natives". 
CAPT. BLUMBURTT (politely) Just a routine inspection tour. 
CHATTAR LAL The British worry so about their Emprie -- it makes us feel like well-cared-for children. 
CHATTAR LAL Dr. Jones, you know very well that the Thuggee cult has been dead for nearly a century. 
CAPT. BLUMBURTT Of course.  The Thuggees were an obscenity that worshipped Kali with human sacrifices.  The Brit- ish Army wiped them out about the time of the Mutiny of 1857. 
Short Round avoids the dinner by feeding it to his little monkey as he listens to the scary conversation. 
The talk is bad enough, but Willie finds the food unbelievable! A servant leans overher shoulder and places a six-inch long BUG on her plate! 
Willie whimpers quietly as she watches the fat merchant next to her lift one of the black, shiny baked-beetles -- and crack it in two!  The man proceeds to enthusiastically suck the gooey innards out. 
MERCHANT (looking at Willie) But you're not eating! 
WILLIE (weakly) I uh -- had bugs for lunch. 
Meanwhile, Indiana continues to politely needle Chattar Lal. 
INDIANA I suppose stories of the Thuggees die hard. 
CHATTAR LAL There are no stories anymore. 
INDIANA Well, I don't know... we came here from a small village and the peas- ants there told us that the Pankot Palace was growing powerful again -- becuase of some ancient evil. 
Indiana smiles and shrugs. 
CHATTAR LAL (sneeringly) Their stories are just fear and folklore. 
INDIANA (cooly) Maybe.. but how do you explain The Thuggee shrine I saw right below the palace? 
Indy catches a glance between the little Maharajah and the prime minister, who answers slowly -- 
CHATTAR LAL The local peasants are just as superstitious.  You're very ob- servant, Dr. Jones.  But you're beginning to worry Capt. Blum- burtt. 
Blumburtt's phlegmatic attitude has changed to curiosity. 
CAPT. BLUMBURTT I'm not worried, Prime Minister, just interested. 
During their conversation, Willie listens to beetles SNAPPING and she watches revolted as the other dinner guests suck the gooey insides out of the bugs. 
WILLIE (to Short Round) Give me your hat... 
SHORT ROUND What for? 
WILLIE I'm going to puke in it... 
Meanwhile, Indy continues ingenously with Chattar Lal. 
INDIANA You know the villagers also claimed that this palace stole something from them. 
CHATTAR LAL Dr. Jones, it our country a guest does not usually insult his host. 
INDIANA Sorry, I thought we were just talking about folklore. 
CAPT. BLUMBURTT (trying to make peace) I'm sure it's nothing.  Just ru- mors. (but interested) What was it they claimed was stolen? 
INDIANA Something magical.  A sacred rock. 
CHATTAR LAL (condescendingly) There, you see, Captain.  A rock! 
INDIANA When they lost this rock their fields and animals dies.  They also said their children were taken from them. 
CHATTAR LAL I think that's enough  of this nonsense, Dr. Jones... 
Indiana smiles faintly at Chattar Lal's anger.  Across the table, Willie looks pale and motions to the waiter. 
WILLIE So you have something, you know, simple -- like soup or something? 
The servant goes off and returns with a covered bowl.  He uncov- ers it and Willie looks at a soup with a dozen eyeballs floating in it. 
MERCHANT Looks delicious! 
WILLIE I wanna go home... 
Willie whimpers and tears start down her cheeks. 
INDIANA (to Chattar Lal) I was dubious muself at first. Then something connected -- the village's rock and the old legend of the Sankara Stones... 
CHATTAR LAL (controlling himself) Dr. Jones, we are all vulnerable to vicious rumors.  I seem to re- member that in Honduras you were accused of being a grave robber rather than a scientist. 
INDIANA (shrugging) The newspapers exaggerated the incident 
CHATTAR LAL And didn't the Sultan of Madagas- car threaten to cut your head off if you ever returned to his coun- try? 
INDIANA That was a misunderstanding. 
CHATTAR LAL (smiling) Exactly what we have here, Dr. Jones. 
MAHARAJAH I have heard the terrible stories of the evil Thuggee cult... 
When the little Marahajah speaks it surprises everyone and there is silence. 
MAHARAJAH (Cont'd) I thought the stories were told to frighten children.  Later, I learned that the Thuggee cult was once real and did unspeakable things. 
The Marahajah looks at Indiana. 
SHORT ROUND Indy, they glow like fire and get real crazy!  Then he talk in this real scary voice! 
Indy tousles Short Round's hair. 
INDIANA He was afraid of you.  He knows a tough  guy when he sees one. 
SHORT ROUND (not so shure) Yeah, that's what happened... 
They reach their room and Short Round opens the door. 
INDIANA I better see how Willie is. 
Short Round shakes his head scornfully as Indy crosses the hall and knocks on another door.  After a moment, the door opens and Willie is standing there in a tempting nightgown. 
INDIANA I brought you something. 
He holds up something wrapped in a piece of silk. 
WILLIE (disgusted) Not leftovers? 
INDIANA No -- real food. 
Willie opens the bundle suspiciously -- then her hace lights up as she examines the breads and fruits inside. 
WILLIE Oh, it is real food...it's beautiful. 
She bites happily into a piece of fruit -- its juice runs down her chin and Indy wipes it off gently with his hand.  The mouth deliberately seductive and Willie is not displeased. 
WILLIE (Cont'd) You're nice.  Listen, I'm taking applications -- how'd you like to be my palace slave? 
INDIANA (smiling) Wearing your jewels to be, prin- cess? 
Indy touches her necklace -- then his hand caresses her neck and ear.  She shivers slightly and speaks softly. 
WILLIE Yeah -- and nothing else. (smiling) That shock you? 
INDIANA (shaking his head) I'm a scientist.  I like doing research on certain "nocturnal activities" -- 
She smiles and puts a grape to his lips.  He opens his mouth takes it and chews it. 
WILLIE You mean like love rituals... 
He swallows the grape and they move toward each other slowly to kiss, revealing the passion that's simmering. 
INDIANA And mating customs... 
They kiss again more heatedly. 
WILLIE Primitive sexual practices? 
INDIANA You're taling to an authority in that area. 
They kiss again hungrily -- 
WILLIE You're dying to come into my room, aren't you? 
INDIANA You want me so bad, why don't you invite me? 
WILLIE Too proud to admit you're crazy about me, Dr. Jones? 
INDIANA I think you're too used to get- ting you own way, Willie... 
They kiss yet again -- and Indy breaks it off, just to show he's still in control.  He backs away toward his room. 
WILLIE (watching him) We'll see who gives in first -- I'll leave my door open. 
INDIANA Don't catch cold. 
WILLIE Dr. Jones -- ? 
Indy stops by his door and sees Willie smiling as she holds up five fingers -- 
WILLIE (Cont'd) Five minutes... you'll be back over here in five minutes... 
INDIANA You're dreaming, Willie.  You want to make it real, just knock on my door. 
He winks.  She waves.  But neither one will surrender first. Willie does into her room, leaving the door ajar.  Indy opens his door. 
65.    INT.  INDIANA'S SUITE                                          65. 
Indy comes in and closes the door -- leaving it open a crack.  He stands and listens, waiting for her to come over. 
66.    INT.  WILLIE'S SUITE                                           66. 
Willie stands likewise by her door, waiting to hear Indy come back over. 
67.    INT.  INDIANA'S SUITE                                           67. 
Indiana shrugs and walks over to a couch and starts taking off his tweed jacket and necktie -- 
INDIANA Five minutes... fat chance. 
68.    INT.  WILLIE SUIT                                              68. 
INDIANA What -- the bug? 
Willie is petrified and shaking. 
WILLIE Get -- the -- bug -- off! 
INDIANA Gee, I wouldn't want to touch an ugly critter like that! 
SHORT ROUND (grinning) Uh uh -- me neither! 
Willie looks at the man-of-action like he's insane.  Then she feels the bug crawling onto her cheek -- 
WILLIE Oh no -- oh no!! 
INDIANA (studying the bug) You know, Willie, I'll bet he's mad because they were eating his friends for dinner. 
WILLIE Please -- oh please, I'm going to die!  Get it off! 
Indiana shrugs and leans over and casually swats the horrible bug off her face.  He and Short Round watch the insect skid across the floor -- and suddenly disappear as if by magic! 
Puzzled, they wander toward the wall, leaving Willie behind, bathed in sweat, staring at the ceiling -- 
WILLIE What did I do to deserve this trip?! 
Kneeling by the wall, Short Round examines the baseboard -- 
SHORT ROUND It went under.  Hey, I feel wind, Indy. 
Indiana knocks on the wall and considers the hollow sound.  He moves back and looks at the whole wall.  Behind him, Willie moves past -- 
WILLIE I'm packing!  I'm getting out of here right now tonight! 
She dashes behind a screen to start getting dressed.  Meanwhile Indy feels the marble walls.  He moves to a niche in which there is a small statue of Ganesha, the friendly elephant god. 
Indiana lifts the statue -- and a panel in the wall opens slow- ly.  Short Round looks amazed.  Indy watches the light fall across the far wall of a tunnel as the door opens slowly. 
Indy peers into the tunnel at an old wall painting.  Spiderly San- skrit calligraphy runs under a flanking illustration of a prince bowing before a god. 
INDIANA *(He reads aloud an inscription in Sanskrit). 
SHORT ROUND What does it mean, Indy? 
INDIANA (translating) "Follow in the footsteps of Shiva.  Do not betray his truth." 
Indy takes out the piece of cloth the boy gave him in Mayapore, the similarities are striking.  It is also a picture of Shiva Sankara. 
INDIANA *(He repeats aloud the inscrip- tion also written on the cloth) 
Over behind the screen, Willie's getting into some silk pants with an Indian-style brocade bodice top -- 
WILLIE I don't care if I have to walk to Delhi, I'm -- hey! 
She notices Indy and Short Round bending to enter the dark tunnel behind the wall. 
WILLIE (Cont'd) Wait a minute!  What're you -- where're you going?! 
Indy pokes his head back into the room -- 
INDIANA Lock your door and don't leave until we get back. 
He disappears behind the wall and Willie looks worried. 
75.    INT.  A PALACE TUNNEL - NIGHT                                  75. 
Indy and Short Round enter the secret passage and move forward slowly into the inky darkness. 
SHORT ROUND I don't think we suppose to be in here, Indy... 
They creep slowly down the dark tunnel.  It grows smaller and Indy ducks his head. 
SHORT ROUND (Cont'd) I step on something. 
Their footsteps crunch on the tunnel floor. 
INDIANA You're right, there's something all over the floor... 
Even Short Round has to duck and Indy finally kneels to his hands and knees. 
INDIANA (Cont'd) We'll have to crawl. 
As they crawl, their hands and knees continue to crunch on what- ever it is littering the ground. 
SHORT ROUND Indy, the floor -- there is some- thing alive! 
Indiana gets a match out of his pocket.  He snaps it with his thumb and the match flares -- a hideous insectarium: a living collection of the world's ugliest antropods, hexapods and arch- nids. 
SHORT ROUND Holy smoke -- I'm scared, Indy! 
Indiana turns and sees something else -- 
INDIANA There's a chamber here.  Come on -- 
Indy finds an oil lamp on the wall and lights it.  Short Round happily scampers into the chamber and Indy follows him.  Suddenly the door slides shut -- trapping them inside! 
INDIANA GET US OUT!  Willie, shut up and listen!  There's got to be a ful- crum release!  Look around! 
WILLIE (O.S.) A what?! 
86.    INT.  THE TUNNEL                                               86. 
Willie whines and frantically searches the wall.  Insects are crawling and jumping on her and she kicks at them! 
INDIANA (O.S.) A fulcrum release lever! 
WILLIE I can't find any lever!  Help me Indy! 
87.    INT.  THE SPIKE CHAMBER                                        87. 
Indiana and Short Round are backed against the wall and the spikes are a foot away and moving in -- 
INDIANA Look around, Willie!  There's got to be a liever hidden somewhere!  Come on, you can do it! 
88.    INT.  THE TUNNEL                                               88. 
Insects drop onto Willie from the ceiling and fly at her as she flattens against the wall.  Then her elbow hits something -- a loose stone.  She claws at it and it falls out of the wall leaving a hole. 
WILLIE There's a hole!  I found a square hole! 
INDIANA (O.S.) That's it -- the release lever -- look inside! 
WILLIE I am -- it looks horrible! 
The hole is revolting :  covered with squirming insects, it also oozes some kind of glistening mucus. 
INDIANA (O.S.) Reach inside! 
Willie moves her hand toward the nauseating hole then pulls back. 
WILLIE I can't, Indy!  I can't! 
89.    INT.  THE SPIKE TUNNEL                                         89. 
Indiana turns his head sideways and sucks in his breath, but the deadly spikes are poking into his leater jacket now -- 
INDIANA The lever!  Willie, do it!  NOW! 
90.    INT.  THE TUNNEL                                               90. 
Willie screams and jams her hand into the gross hole -- 
WILLIE Oh God, it's soft -- it's moving! 
INDIANA (O.S.) Willie! 
91.    INT.  THE SPIKE CHAMBER                                        91. 
Short Round is frightened to death and crying -- 
SHORT ROUND Willie, help us!  Hurry! 
92.    INT.  THE TUNNEL                                               92. 
She hears Short Round crying and twists her hand in the disgust- ing hole.  Suddenly the door springs open!  Willie pulls her hand out and stares in horror -- her hand and arm are covered with greenish slimey mung! 
93.    INT.  THE SPIKE CHAMBER                                        93. 
The spikes suddenly retract, disappearing into the wall and clos- ing.  Indy pulls Willie inside the chamber and the door slams shut again.  Willie dances around, yelling about the hideous slime on her arm. 
WILLIE Get is off me -- get it off! 
Indy helps her wipe it off.  Willie falls back against the door. 
WILLIE (Cont'd) You left me out there!  What in the hell were you doing in here?! I want to leave this place right now!! 
She sees the same lever that Short Round pulled earlier and grabs for it.  Indiana dives and manages to stop her from activating the spikes agian. 
INDIANA Not that one!  We had enought of that one, thank you... 
He looks around and spots a small rock protruding from the wall. Cautiously, praying htat it won't activate another booby trap, Indy pushes the rock. 
A large door opens on the other side of the chamber -- a soft wind howls past outside the chamber. 
94.    INT.  THE WIND TUNNEL                                          94. 
Indiana, Short Round and Willie exit the spike chamber and head down a larger tunnel through which a roaring wind intermittantly blows, howling eerily like a note of gloomy music. 
Indiana follows a curve in the tunnel and they see light approaching. The wind holws another dramatic note which gales past them as they reach the mouth of the tunnel. 
Indiana is joined by Willie and Short Round.  They all stop in astonishment at the sight below them: 
95.    INT.  THE TEMPLE OF DEATH                                      95. 
As the camera pulls back,  the mouth of the wind tunnel in which they are standing becomes just a small hole overlooking the stag- gering vastness of the incredible TEMPLE OF DEATH. 
The colossal subterranean temple has been carved out of a solid mass of rock.  A vaulting cathedral-like ceiling is supported by rows of carved stone columns. 
Balconies overlook the temple floor.  Pillared halls leading to dark side chambers.  Moving out of these chambers, hundreds of faithful worshippers chant as they enter the temple. 
Willie is crying and her voice is shoking as she turns awa from the hideous ritual -- 
WILLIE Let's go!  Let's get out of here! 
INDIANA Quiet! 
109.   INT.  THE ALTAR                                                109. 
The priests reverently unwrap three conical pieces of crystallized quartz.  The place the three stones below the sta- tue of Kali and slowly the smoke around the altar swirls -- 
The smoke is drawn to the three stones and they actually start in- haling the piraling smoke.  The smoke disappears into the stones and the air clears.  Then the three stones start to glow a haunting incandescent white. 
110.   INT.  THE WIND TUNNEL                                          110. 
Short Round looks scared.  Willie is still crying -- Indy waits, horrified but fascinated. 
INDIANA The village knew their rock was magic -- but they didn't know it was one of the lost Sankara Stones... 
SHORT ROUND Why they glow like that? 
INDIANA Legend says that when the stones are brought together the diamonds inside of them will glow. 
Willie wipes her eyes and becomes more interested -- 
WILLIE Diamonds...? 
111.   INT.  THE ALTAR                                                111. 
The Sankara Stones shimmer brightly, and inside the crystallized quartz, the enormous sparkling diamonds of legend are now re- vealed. 
Mola Ram stands facing Kali with his arms outstretched and kneels and bows and then walks off the altar and disappears. 
112.   INT.  THE WIND TUNNEL                                          112. 
Indiana sees the woshippers below start to leave the temple.  He looks at Willie and Short Round. 
INDIANA Okay -- now listen -- you wait here and keep quiet.  Shorty, keep an eye on her. 
Short Round nods and hands Indy his bullwhip and shoulder bag. Willie sees Indiana peering down at the sheer drop below the mouth of the wind tunnel. 
WILLIE Wait -- what're you doing? 
INDIANA I'm going down. 
WILLIE Down?  Down there?!  Are you crazy --! 
INDIANA I'm not leaving without those stones. 
WILLIE You're gonna get killed chasing after your damn fortune and glory! 
INDIANA (looking at her) Maybe...someday. (smiling) Not today. 
SHORT ROUND I keep my eye peeled, Indy. 
Indiana nods and looks down at the now empty temple.  Then he slips down from the mouth of the wind tunnel. 
113.   INT.  THE TEMPLE WALL                                          113. 
Indiana skillfully clumbs down an enormous tmeple column -- find- ing footholds on stone cobras, carved lions and the stone breasts of dancing girls.  Slowly, he makes his way down and swings across a balcony. 
114.   INT.  THE BALCONY                                              114. 
Indiana walks quietly along the balcony overlooking the temple. He stops -- between him and the altar is the crevasse with the lava bubbling fire at the bottom. 
Indiana looks across the gulf and sees another column near the altar at the top of which stone elephants are perched.  Indy curls his whip and suddenly lets it fly -- 
The whip cracks and its end wraps tightly around the tusk of one of the stone elephants.  From the balcony, Indy tugs the whip taut, takes a breath and runs -- 
115.   INT.  THE CREVASSE                                             115. 
Indiana leaps and swings out on the whip, arching down and up, over the chasm of fiery lava in a spectacular curving jump! 
116.   INT.  THE LATAR                                                116. 
Indy lands on his feet and turns to release the whip.  Short Round waves to Indy that the coast is clear.  Indy snaps the whip -- it releases from the elephant tusk and drops. 
Recurling the whip, Indy attaches it to his belt and moves to- ward the towering statue of Kali.  The three Sankara stones start to glow and Indiana approaches them cautiously. 
Reaching the stones, Indy's face is lighted by them.  He notices that one of them (sthe stone from Mayapore village) has strange lines painted across it. 
Suspiciously, Indy touches the stone, but it doesn't burn.  He lifts it carefully and peers into it.  The enormous diamond sparkles inside.  He places the stone in his shoulder bag and reaches for the others. 
117.   INT.  THE WIND TUNNEL                                          117. 
Short Round and Willie watch apprehensively as Indiana bags the three stones. 
118.   INT.  THE ALTAR                                                118. 
Indiana backs away and looks up at the horrific statue of Kali. It seems to be watching him.  He turns and is about to go when he hears something -- 
It sounds like a voice and Indy is afraid to turn -- could it be Kali?  The he hears other noises echoing and turns slowly.  Real- alizing the sounds are coming from behind the altar, Indy moves around it toward the back. 
119.   INT.  THE WIND TUNNEL                                          119. 
CHATTAR LAL As she slept, she undoubtedly had nightmares. 
Indiana looks at him and nods. 
INDIANA Then she must have run out of the room and you found her. 
CAPT. BLUMBURTT Did you discover anything in that tunnel, Dr. Jones? 
Indiana stares into the rising sun. 
INDIANA Nothing.  Just a dead end.  That tunnel's been deserted for years. 
A sergeant-major shouts up to Blumburtt that the troops are ready. 
CAPT. BLUMBURTT Well, Mr. Prime Minister, my re- port will duly note that we found nothing unusual here in Pankot. 
CHATTAR LAL I'm sure that will please the Maharajah, Captain. 
CAPT. BLUMBURTT (to Indiana) As I said before, we'd be happy to escort you to Delhi. 
INDIANA Thanks, but I don't think Willie is ready to travel yet. 
CUT TO: 
131.   EXT.  THE PALACE ROAD - MORNING                                131. 
Dust swirls as the British cavalry moves off with their Highland Pipers at the head playing a military bagpipe tune.  Capt. Blum- burtt comes out of the palace and gets into an open car. 
Blumburtt's car moves off behind the cavalry and then the supply trucks follow. 
132.   INT.  WILLIE'S SUITE                                           132. 
The whine of the bagpipes is eerily muted in the dark room. Through the gently swaying mosquito netting, we see Willie asleep on the bed. 
Then through her side of the gauzy netting, we see the door opening across the room.  Indiana enters quietly and moves toward the bed, his eyes fixed on Willie's sleeping body. 
Indy sits down on the bed slowly.  Willie turns in her sleep and opens her eyes.  Through the mosquito netting she sees Indy sit- ting with his back to her. 
WILLIE Indy?  Did you walk to them? 
INDIANA Yes. 
WILLIE So now they believe me. 
INDIANA Yes, they believe you. 
Indiana speaks in a strange monotone. 
WILLIE Then they'll send the soldiers down into the temple... 
Willie looks at Indiana's back and continues quietly. 
WILLIE (Cont'd) I was scared to death last night when I thought they were going to kill you. 
INDIANA No... they won't kill me. 
WILLIE (smiling faintly) You know you've been nothing but trouble since I hooked up with you -- but I have to admit I'd miss you if I lost you... 
Now Indiana starts to turn slowly. 
INDIANA You won't lose me, Willie... 
She sees him turn and his face slowly comes toward the mosquito netting -- his face pushes into the netting and Willie looks stunned as Indy's mouth opens -- 
He starts hissing grotesquely, smoke billows out of his mouth and the mosquito netting BURNS OPEN to expose his terrifying face moving toward Willie -- 
She is forzen with fear and unable to utter a sound as Indy's malevolent face looms at her -- and then she notices his eyes -- his eyes glowing a hellish luminscent yellow! 
Willie SCREAMS!! 
She suddenly bolts from the bed and tries to run -- Indiana goes into a rage, ripping the mosquito netting from the bed as he fol- lows her. 
INDIANA No!  I've found it -- you can't -- Kali knows! 
Willie tries the door but it's locked.  She sees Indiana moving toward her ranting incoherently as he smashes a vase out of his way -- 
INDIANA -- been too many lies -- there's no god's heaven -- just -- the horror! I've seen it -- life preying on life! 
Willie cowers in a corner, horrified by the transformation she sees in Indiana.  Shouting and pacing Indy holds his head against the pain of his terrible thoughts -- 
INDIANA -- rivers -- destroying mountains -- a comet in space -- exploding! (holding his head) Aaahh! -- the screams -- pitiful people -- their pain -- the hate -- and greed -- always greed! 
The light throws his shadow over Willie -- a giant shadow float- ing back and forth over her as she cries in the corner, unable to fight the evil devouring Indiana. 
INDIANA -- but I've found -- Kali's touch! Death -- no more lies -- the death I've been searching for! (shouting) Quit crying!  She can hear you -- Kali knows fear -- don't you under- stand -- Kali is freedom! 
Indiana stops pacing and Willie freezes in terror.  Now a bizarre yellow light wipes across the room.  Indiana turns and watches silently as two Thuggee guards emerge from a secret doorway that's opened -- 
The shadows of the Thuggee guards loom over Willie and she SCREAMS again! 
CUT TO: 
133.   INT.  THE TEMPLE OF DEATH - DAY                                133. 
Freed children scramble up numerous ladders to escape the mines below.  They follow the mass of children moving toward the front altar. 
152.   INT.  THE ALTAR                                                152. 
On the altar, under the statue of Kali, Willie and Short Round are helping Indy and some of the bigger children rip down a long wooden panel decorated with hideous Kali figures. 
The childrens' escape is blocked by the chasm separating the altar from the deserted sorshippers' area of the temple.  The swelling crowds of children push and teeter dangerously on the edge of the fire pit. 
Indiana and the others carry the wooden panel through the crowd toward the chasm.  They stand it up and when Indy gives thw word they drop it -- 
The panel crashes across the chasm forming a plank across which the children now begin running to safety. 
153.   INT.  BEHIND THE ALTAR                                         153. 
The last of the children scramble up the ladders and run toward the front of the altar. 
154.   INT.  THE ALTAR                                                154. 
The childrens' bare feet stomp across the wooden plank -- below them the lava of the fire pit bubbles and shows outbursts of flame. 
Indy stares at the plank and sees that it's starting to smoke from the intese heat rising up. 
On the far side of the plank, the children safely across scatter through the deserted temple toward freedom. 
Willie and Short Round help the last kids out onto the plank -- Indy sees one child's foot break though the smoldering wood -- the kid in front pulls the child to safety. 
Willie and Short Round start to go out onto the plank but Indy shouts at them -- 
INDIANA No, wait! 
He runs over and pulls them aside -- he steps out onto the plank and takes a few steps to test it -- suddenly the plank bursts into flame in the middle. 
Indy takes one more step -- and then the plank breaks!  Indy dives back to the ledge of the altar and Willie and Short Round grab him and pull him up and the wooden plank plummets into the fiery chasm. 
WILLIE What're we going to do?! 
INDIANA There's got to be another way out. 
CUT TO: 
155.   INT.  A TUNNEL                                                 155. 
Indiana, Willie and Short Round run through the deserted mine tunnels.  They hear a rumbling noise and Indy leads them down a side tunnel.  They stop and peer into a quarry. 
156.   INT.  THE QUARRY CAVERN                                        156. 
A large cavern is the depository for the mine cars rolling in with loads of rock.  Emaciated children (still unaware of the re- volt and the other childrens' escape) break their backs shoving the heavily-loaded mine cars. 
Thuggee guards supervise the deadening work, while others oper- ate the pulley-and-hoist system used to drag  the cars up the sloped dump ramp. 
Behind this operation, a thunderous waterfall cascades into a huge cistern.  From there, chutes deply the rushing water to power the large conveyor belt below it. 
As the cars rise up the ramp, they tip and spill rocks onto the conveyor belt which carries them toward an awesome stone cylinder that rolls relentlessly , crushing the rocks into sand. 
From the side tunnel, Indiana watches the noisy operation. 
INDIANA Those empty cars have got to go out of the mines. 
Willie and Short Round watch the children push the empty mine cars.  The cars gain momentum and roll away down two dark tun- nels. 
INDIANA (Cont'd) Come on, let's see if we can catch a ride... 
Tey duck out of the tunnel and run for cover behind a slag heap. Loaded mine cars roaring down from the mines hurtle past them and crash to a stop against the cars in front. 
INDIANA (Cont'd) Okay, Shorty -- go! 
He pushes Short Round who darts out after a mine car roars past and dodges across the tracks before the next one descends.  Indy pushes Willie  into  position and holds her ready -- 
WILLIE I can't! 
INDIANA Go! 
After another car crashes past, Indy shoves her.  Willie runs out -- her shoe gets stuck and she freezes in the tracks!  Willie sees a rock-filled car blasting down out of a tunnel directly toward her! 
Indiana dives, knocking Willie safely to the ground on the other side of the tracks -- the heavy car hurtles past and crashes into the cars in front. 
Indy pulls Willie behind a massive wooden post holding up the dump ramp and they hide from a passing gaurd. 
INDIANA We've got to get across to the empty cars.  Wait here until I signal you. 
They watch him run and hurdle a pile of lumber, bound up three steps and duck behind a tool shack on the platform.  Indy reaches out and grabs one of the passing slave children. 
They see Indy put his hand over the kid's mouth and whisper to him.  He releases the kid who sneaks away, alerting the other children who start making their escapes into side tunnels. 
Now Indy motions to Short Rounds and Willie to follow.  As they start to move out they freeze dead in their tracks and Indy motions again angrily -- 
INDIANA Come on! 
Willie and Short Round see a guard coming up the steps on the other side of the platform.  As the man rises he gets taller and taller -- until they see it's a Thuggee giant coming up behind Indiana. 
INDIANA (Cont'd) Come one, what's wrong? 
SHORT ROUND Behind you! 
WILLIE Get down here, Shorty!  I got us a ride! 
Willie shirls as another quarry guard rushes toward her.  She yanks the iron brake-handle off the mine car and holds it threat- eningly like a baseball bat -- 
WILLIE (Cont'd) Come on, let's see hoe hand your head is! 
Up on the rock balcony, Short Round lowers himself over the edge. The little Maharajah grabs his arm -- 
MAHARAJAH Please -- listen -- to go out you must take the left tunnel. 
Shorty looks at him and he knows he's telling the truth. 
SHORT ROUND Thanks pal. 
MAHARAJAH I'm going to try to find the English soldiers. 
SHORT ROUND Good luck. 
Short Round slips over the edge and slides down a wet stalactite to the floor of the cavern. 
There he finds Willie swinging the brake-handle and smashing the guard in the gut.  The man doubles in pain -- Willie kicks his putt and he splashes into the pool of water. 
WILLIE I don't appreciate being cooked like a french fry! 
SHORT ROUND Willie, come on! 
Willie starts pushing the empty mine car with Short Round. 
SHORT ROUND (Cont'd) You do pretty good for a girl! 
Across the quarry, Mola Ram and six temple guards run out onto a high platform next to the waterfall.  Mola Ram sees Willie and Short Round pushing the mine cat. 
Mola Ram shouts to his men -- two of them pull pistols and open fire! 
Bullets ricochet off the mine car and Short Round shoves Willie to the far side of the car where they both take cover. 
Meanwhile, up on a catwalk, a guard slices a sword through the air and Indiana ducks!  The sword slashes into a wooden railing and the guard tries frantically to pull it out -- 
Indiana slams kis knee up into the guard's stomach and then smashes his fist down on his neck -- the man collapses.  Indy hears more gunfire. 
Indiana rushes along the catwalk toward the platform above.  He edges against the wall below the platform, staying out of sight as he unfurls his whip. 
One of Mola Ram's guards fires again from the high platform and Indiana lashes the whip -- the whip wraps around the gunman's arm and Indy yanks on it -- 
The gunman topples through the air and crashes down onto the cat- walk.  Indy grabs the gun.  He kicks the guard off the catwalk and the man falls into the waterfall pool. 
As the other guards fire down at him, Indiana dodges along the catwalk and fires back at them.  A bullet explodes near Mola Ram and he ducks back -- 
Meanwhile, Short Round and Willie have the mine car rolling and they jump into it -- 
SHORT ROUND Indy!  Hurry! 
Indiana spots the rolling mine car racing across the quarry.  Indy takes off and runs along the catwalk -- bullets explode around him, splintering wood.  Indy reaches the end of the catwalk -- 
Suddenly he dives into the air and catches hold of a block and tacke!  Indy skids along the pulley system, sliding down a cable toward the mine car in which Short Round and Willie are riding. 
Bullets whiz past as Indiana sails in the air above the speeding mine car - when they are in sync, Indy lets go and drops into the mine car next to Willie and Short Round! 
Mola Ram rushes forward and watches the speeding mine car rolling down the track toward the tunnels -- 
MOLA RAM They've stolen the Sankara Stones -- they must be stopped! 
In the speeding  mine car, Indy sees the tracks separating in two directions -- one back into the quarry, the other toward two tun- nels that lead out of the mines. 
Indiana lifts a shovel from the floor of the car and swings it just in time -- he hits a switch which CLANGS as they speed by and the car is shunted tipsy-turvy onto the track toward the two tunnels. 
Willie hangs on as the car tears down the track toward the tunnel on the right -- and Short Round looks worried -- 
SHORT ROUND No, Indy, it's left tunnel. 
But it's too late and they all hold on as the mine car shoots donw into the darkness of the echoing tunnel. 
157.   INT.  THE TUNNEL                                               157. 
The wind rushes past Indiana as the car descends into the tunnel and picks up speed.  Willie hangs on with Short Round -- the mine car roars around a curve and flies fater along the rails. 
158.   INT.  THE QUARRY                                               158. 
Back in the quarry, Mola Ram supervises the guards as they shove empty cars toward the tunnel.  Carrying long Khyber rifles, they jump aboard the cars.  The first one rolls into the dark tunnel and the second car speeds after it. 
159.   INT.  THE TUNNEL ENTRANCE                                      159. 
The two Thuggee cars shoot past, descending into the darkness in pursuit of the infidels who stole the Sankara Stones. 
160.   INT.  THE TUNNEL                                               160. 
The mine car hurtles past.  Indy sits in front, pulling back on the brake-lever to control their speed and keep them from careen- ing off the tracks. 
Expecting trouble, Short Round peers over the back end of the car.  Willie ducks low, watching the heavy beams flashing danger- ously close above their heads. 
Then Willie's eyes go wide and she groans in terror like a girl on a roller coaster as the mine car suddenly plunges downward, taking their stomachs with it. 
A gunshot rings out and Short Round sees the first Thuggee car appear around a curve behind them.  Mola Ram's gunmen start blasting.  Bullets ricochet off the mine car and Indy yells back to Short Round. 
The sledgehammers continue -- until two of the rock supports give way!  There are shouts as the guards run for cover. 
Mola Ram stands on a platform watching the huge cistern slowly keel over -- the noise is incredible as the colossal tank crashes to the ground! 
Suddenly a half-million gallons of water explode across the cav- cern and surge in a tidal wave toward the tunnels! 
168.   INT.  THE TUNNEL                                               168. 
The walls of the tunnel flash past and curves appear suddenly out of the darkness as the hair-raising chase continues -- 
Short Round and Willie struggle to help Indy lift a large boulder from the bottom of the speeding mine car. 
The cars descend again into a stretch of much lower tunnel where the beams flash past inches above them.  Indy judges the beams -- 
INDIANA Okay  -- one -- two -- NOW! 
All three of them groan as they raise the boulder and shove it off the back of the car -- ducking instantly to avoid being de- capitated by the next beam! 
Looking back, they see the gunmen pop up between the beams -- and they see the looks of terror on the gunmen's faces as they see the boulder in front of them! 
The Thuggee car hits the boulder and upends!  The guards scream horribly as the car tumbles end over end, slamming against the tunnel walls, getting ripped to shreds so that finally only pieces of metal, wheels and debris fly like a meteorite shower down the tunnel! 
Willie whoops for joy and hugs Indy who smiles modestly -- 
INDIANA Okay, Shorty, hit the brakes! 
Short Round dives for the front of the car and ahppily pulls the brake lever -- it doesn't work!  Short Round yanks on it harder -- the brake level suddenly breaks off! 
SHORT ROUND Indy!! 
Indy sees Short Round holding up the broken brake lever!  Indy crawls quickly toward Shorty while Willie holds on for dear life! 
Completely out of control, the car hurtles down a decline into a section where the tunnel if larger again -- 
Indiana bends over the front of the car and looks underneath.  He sees the brake tension hanging loose from the brake-pad.  Indiana pulls himself back up and looks at Willie and Short Round. 
INDIANA Grab onto me -- I'm going to try and slow us down from underneath! 
Willie looks terrified but helps Short Round grab onto Indy's arm and the back of his jacket.  He skips over the front of the car and swings a leg underneath -- 
Indy is inches above the rails and the rocky ground blurring be- neath the car as he tries to kick at the brake-pad.  His feet fall and he bumps along, dragged dangerously for a moment -- 
Indy manages to find a foothold on the undercarriage of the car. As they hold onto him, Indy kicks again and his foot hits the brake-pad.  He shoves it and slowly the pad closes against the spinning wheel... 
WILLIE Oh no! 
Willie and Short Round look up and see that the tunnel is ending ahead and the track dead-ends into a stone wall! 
INDIANA What's wrong? 
He looks around -- and sees the car rocketing directly toward the stone wall! 
Indy's foot starts kicking in high-gear underneath the car -- he slams at the brake-pad with all his strength -- the pad screeches against the spinning wheeel and starts sparking! 
The car seems to slow as it shoots toward the end of the tunnel. Indy groans and pushes hard against the smoking brake-pad. 
The car slows more and more until it runs down the last few yards to the dead-end and rolls gently to a stop, just nudgeing Indy's back against the wall.... 
INDIANA Ouch... 
Willie looks faint as Indiana gets to his feet and Shorty jumps out of the car.  They help Willie out and she stands shakily -- 
WILLIE I'm okay -- I'm fine -- I love to flirt with death... 
Indiana sees that the tunnel ahead continues without any more tracks.  Then they hear something -- 
A strange rumbling sound echoing down the tunnel from behind them.  The walls seem to reverberate.  Looking worried, they start walking away down the tunnel. 
They walk faster as the noise behind them becomes louder and they keep glancing over their shoulders -- 
WILLIE What's that?...Indy?! 
Indiana isn't sure and he pulls Willie by the arm and all three of them start jogging. 
The rumbling behind them sounds increasingly ominous and finally they start running full tilt.  They rush down the tunnel and the awful noise becomes defening!  Willie looks around again and slows suddenly -- 
Willie stops dead in her tracks -- paralyzed -- awestruck -- DOOMED! 
Willie sees a monster wall of water (released from the quarry) as it thunders around a curver -- a mammoth tidal wave crashing spec- tacularly against the opposite tunnel wall! 
A veritable "tsunami" caroming off the tunnel wall and spewing furiously forward like a hydrous Juggernaut! 
WILLIE (frozen in her tracks) Oh... shit... 
Indiana and Short Round notice that Willie's sloed and they stop running -- they also see the cataclysm of water crashing down the tunnel toward them. 
Indy runs back and grabs Willie.  All three of them take off, running faster than they've ever run in their lives! 
The tidal wave smashes forward, booming behind them and Indiana realizes quickly that they're going to lose this race.  Suddenly he sees a small side-tunnel in a bend ahead -- 
INDIANA There!  Dive! 
They lunge toward the hole and Short Round dives in it first. Indiana shoves Willie into the hole and jumps in after her just as the colossal tidal wave explodes  past! 
Mola Ram motions and the guards move farther out on both sides of the bridge -- suddenly Indiana swings the sword and it cuts into one of the bottom rope-spans! 
The rope is half-severed and frays slowly under the tension! 
MOLA RAM Impressive, Dr. Jones. But I don't believe you would kill yourself! 
Mola Ram motions again the his guards (looking more nervous now) step farther out onto the bridge, mvoing closer to Indy from both sides. 
Indy swings the sword again, cutting into the other rope-span! It, too, is now partially severed and frays slowly.  The bridge jolts and Indy and the guards sway precariously! 
Suddenly Mola Ram shoves Short Round out onto the bridge.  The High Priest draws a dagger and pushes Willie onto the swaying span, holding the knife behind them both. 
MOLA RAM (Cont'd) Your friends will die with you! 
In different times this would be called a Mexican stand-off Indiana looks at the guards in front and behind him.  He sees Willie and Short Round out on the bridge now with Mola Ram at their backs. 
INDIANA Then I guess we're all going to take a big dive! 
Indy and Short Round's eyes meet -- and the kid realizes that his hero isn't kidding.  Willie looks at Shout Round anxiously -- she notices that Shorty is surreptitiously wrapping his foot around a rope support. 
Petrified, Willie also secretly wraps her foot around a rope and does likewise with her arm -- 
MOLA RAM Give me the stones! 
INDIANA Mola Ram -- you're about to meet Kali -- in Hell! 
Indiana swings the sword with all his might -- it whooshes through the air and slashes clear through the top and bottom ropes --! 
Immediately Mola Ram's guards start to flee in panic -- too late! Indiana swings the sword again and the two ropes on the other side are severed -- 
The rope bridge is sheared in two!  It breaks in the middle and both halves fall apart!  The guards scream horribly in the air as they plunge down into the rocky gorge! 
Willie and Short Round cling to their established footholds and fall with the bridge toward the wall of the gorge.  Mola Ram spills forward, clutching desperately at the ropes and slats -- 
Below them, Indiana has latched onto a rope and swings with the bridge as it hits the gorge wall and hangs vertically now, dang- ling from its moorings at the top. 
There's an instant of suspended animation as all who remain alive realize they are alive.  Short Round and Willie cling near the top of the now vertical bridge. 
Below them, Mola Ram clutches onto one of the main ropes while directly above him the last of his guards holds on for dear life. 
Short Round and Willie struggle upwards, clutching ropes and stepping on slats.  Finally, Short Round heaves himself up onto solid ground and turns to help Willie up. 
Meanwhile, dangling below on the bridge, Indy reaches up and grabs Mola Ram's leg.  The High Priest kicks and tries to break Indy's grip.  He kicks again and smashes Indy in the face. 
Indy won't let go.  Suddenly the High Priest reaches up and grabs his own Thuggee guard and yanks his down by the front of his shirt -- 
Mola Ram shoves the luckless guard down onto Indy, trying to dislodge him by sacrificing the screaming Thuggee.  Indy manages to hang on.  The Thuggee is less fortunate and falls screaming to his death. 
Then Mola Ram looks across the gorge and yells.  Indy sees a dozen of the last Thuggee guards streaming out of the tunnel -- only to be stranded on the far side of the now bridgeless gorge. 
Indy starts climbing up after Mola Ram again.  He grabs at the back of Mola Ram's robe and pull him down.  Slipping, Mola Ram turns and it's Indy's chance to punch Mola Ram in the face. 
Mola Ram's eyes are glowing yellow and he's shouting incoherent- ly.  He grabs the strap of Indy's shoulder bag and stamps on In- dy's hand -- Indy falls! 
Indiana slips downward, scrambling to catch hols of something -- meanwhile, Mola Ram now has the bag with the Sankara Stones. 
Indy finally stops his downward slide and dangles dangerously near the bottom of the bridge. 
Across the gorge, the Thuggee guards run up a path to a small gove of trees growing on a plateau above the gorge.  The guards have bows and arrows and take firing positions -- 
At the top of the bridge, Mola Ram keeps climbing until rocks start poundinghim from above -- Willie and Short Round pely him with rocks which he tries to block with his arm. 
Indiana starts to climb again, using all his strength.  He reaches for a wooden slat -- suddenly a flaming arrow smashes into the wood! 
Indy turns in amazement and sees more flaming arrows rocketing across the chasm directy for him! 
Across the gorge, by the grove of trees, a Thuggee priest yells orders to the archers who continue to launch the flaming arrows. 
Indiana crawls up as the bridge starts to burn from the continu- ing bursts of fiery arrows.  At the top, Mola Ram reaches up des- perately for a hand old -- Willie smashes his hand with a rock! 
The High Priest yells in pain and slips down to where Indy slugs him again in the face!  They struggle as the fire burns up from beneath them. 
On the cliff above the fallen bridge, Willie watches the fire rising toward Indy and Mola Ram as they fight.  Short Round turns and sees something -- 
SHORT ROUND Willie, look! 
They see horses galloping through a narrow pass -- the British cavalry is returning.  Captain Blumburtt and the first troops draw up their forses and dismount quickly. 
A fussilade of flaming arrows force the British to take cover -- they quickly start firing back at the Thuggees with rifles. 
As the battle above the gorge continues, Indy and Mola Ram fight below on the dangling bridge -- 
Indiana sees the High Priest's eyes begin glowing and he hisses insanely.  Mola Ram's hand thrusts out toward Indiana's chest and Indy yells in pain -- 
Indy looks down and writhes terrified as he sees Mola Ram's hand starting to enter his chest (as it entered the victim's chest during the temple sacrifice)! 
Mola Ram's finger are inching into Indy's body --  Indy clutches at Mola Ram's piercing hand, trying to keep the deadly fingers away from his heart. 
Slowly, Indy is able to push Mola Ram's hand away and his fingers withdraw from Indy's chest.  Indiana suddenly slugs the High Priest in the face and grabs for the bag of Sankara Stones -- 
MOLA RAM No, the stones are mine! 
INDIANA You're betrayed Shiva. *(He re- peats in Sanskrit Sankara's warn- ing) 
