INSIDIOUS 
Written by 
Leigh Whannell 
The universe is deathless; Is deathless because, having no finite self, it stays infinite. A sound man by not advancing himself stays the further ahead of himself, By not confining himself to himself, sustains himself outside himself. 
--LAOZI 
FADE IN 
INT. DARKENED BEDROOM - NIGHT 
A spherical black monolith rises up from a white surface... white like the moon. 
In the darkness, the towers metal skin is barely visible. 
We ROTATE AROUND, revealing the tower to actually be a LAMP -- not rising up from a surface, but hanging down from a white ceiling. The bulb unlit. 
Directly below the lamp is the very definition of innocence - a sleeping child. Chest rising and falling with each breath. 
We HOVER over the young boy...watching him. A blanket emblazoned with dinosaurs is draped across his limbs. His mouth is slack, eyelids twitching to dreams unseen. 
The truly deep sleep that an adult can only wish for. 
We move away from him, exploring the dark room. Strewn with toys. The door is slightly ajar. We float through it into-- 
INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 
--a long hallway. Even darker than the bedroom. And without the boys rhythmic breathing, even quieter. 
A window at the end of the hall enlarges as we approach. 
Someone is standing in front of it. 
The murky silhouette of the figure turns and walks away. We follow it, tentative. Turning a corner, we see the figure. Standing in a doorway. 
Now we can make out the edges of the person. It is an old woman. Hair in a Victorian bun. A corseted dress. 
She stares at us. 
WOMAN Let me in. 
CUT TO: 
OPENING TITLES play out to the shrill screams of George Crumb's `Black Angels I: Night Of The Electric Insects'. 
INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Eyes flick open. 
A woman blinks awake, gazing around the room. Another bedroom. Sparse. Just a bed and a cabinet. It is 5.43 AM. 
Her eyes settle on the man lying next to her in the dark. His heaving snores have woken her up. 
She is RENAI (pronounced Renee) LAMBERT (36). With a quiet determination she is holding on to her youthful good looks, but the lines of age are creeping in. 
She has settled into the `comfort' years of a marriage: hair pinned up messily, wearing dowdy pajamas. 
She beholds her husband, taking him in. Considering him. He snorts and smacks his lips. Very unflattering. 
She climbs out of bed. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, LAMBERT HOME - NIGHT 
High ceilings. Exposed beams. Spanish style windows. 
Renai treads across wooden floorboards into a sunken living room. No matter careful she is, there is a loud creak with each step. A GRANDFATHER CLOCK in the corner ticks steadily. 
There is barely any furniture in here, only a BOOKCASE and a PIANO. What there is a lot of...is boxes. Large moving boxes. 
Renai plops cross-legged onto the floor and rips open one of the boxes, marked BOOKS. She plucks out a handful of books and lines them up on the bookshelf. Then another handful. 
They are all self-help and self-improvement books. Titles like `Be The Better You' and `Inch By Inch, It's A Cinch: A Guide To Achieving Your Goals' pop out. 
She spots a sealed box labelled PHOTO ALBUMS. She strips away the tape and wrestles out a dusty album of wedding photos. 
Smiling faces greet her as she thumbs through the pages. The happy couple. Young. Glowing. Sadness washes over her. 
VOICE (O.S.) Mom? 
She snaps out of it and turns to see DALTON LAMBERT (8). Her son. He approaches her, rubbing his eyes. (It is not the boy we saw in the opening scene.) 
RENAI What are you doing up, kiddo? 
DALTON I don't like my room. 
FOSTER It's too small. 
RENAI Make it work. (INTO PHONE) Speak to an agent. Speak to an agent. Speak to an agent. 
Foster slumps on the floor, pouring cereal and overflowing milk into the cup. A baby girl in a high chair, CALI (2), squeals. 
INT. BATHROOM, LAMBERT HOME - MORNING 
JOSH LAMBERT (37) gapes into the mirror, face covered in soap. 
He washes it off. Now he's awake we see that he is a handsome, clean-cut guy - a former high school nerd who got revenge by growing into his body. 
He sorts through a box labelled JOSH'S BATHROOM STUFF. 
He takes out two bottles - TONER and MOISTURIZER. He dabs the toner on, then smooths the moisturizer into his forehead and around his eyes. 
He suddenly notices a grey hair. Looks mortified. 
JOSH (Michael Corleone voice) Every time I think I've pulled you out...you grow back in. 
He plucks it out, wincing melodramatically. 
JOSH (CONT'D) Ouch! 
INT. KITCHEN, LAMBERT HOME - MORNING 
Josh strides in, tie hanging open around his neck. Renai is still on the phone. Josh points to his tie. 
RENAI Well, I'd like to keep the old number if I could. (TO JOSH) You really need to learn how to do this, honey. 
She threads the tie into a knot for him. 
JOSH (TO FOSTER) Don't eat on the floor, buddy. 
Foster stays where he is, slurping cereal from the cup. Dalton is playing a handheld videogame. Intensely focused. 
RENAI (INTO PHONE) Okay, well, please let me know by the end of today, I have to give the number out. Thank you. 
She hangs up, pissed. 
RENAI (CONT'D) Foster, get up. Now. 
Foster frowns and obeys. 
JOSH (TO RENAI) How come you were up so early? Was Cali crying? 
RENAI You woke me up. 
JOSH What do you mean? 
RENAI You were snoring. 
JOSH No I wasn't. 
RENAI Yes you were. 
JOSH I don't snore. 
RENAI Yes you do. 
JOSH My father snored. I do not snore. 
RENAI How would you know what you do? You're asleep. 
Renai marches out of the room. Dalton's game unit beeps loudly and he pumps his fist. 
DALTON Yes! I made it to the last level! Invisiworld! 
Ever amiable, Josh high five's his son. 
JOSH Good one, champ. (BEAT) I don't snore, do I? 
INT. LIVING ROOM, LAMBERT HOME - CONTINUOUS 
Renai sees that all the books she unpacked earlier are now scattered across the floor of the living room. 
RENAI Where are my bleeping pills? 
INT. KITCHEN, LAMBERT HOME - CONTINUOUS 
Renai charges in. Josh snatches an apple out of a fruit bowl, biting into it. He quickly gags and spits it out into the sink. 
JOSH What the heck is this? Wax?! 
RENAI Yes. 
JOSH Let me get this straight - we have no actual fruit but we have wax fruit? 
ALANSO Maybe you do, but I was created in the image of my Dios. 
He takes a gold cross hanging on a necklace out of his shirt, kissing it and holding it up. That gets another laugh. 
JOSH I respect your right to believe that, Alanso. But I want to give you all possible theories. I want this class to go out into the world with an informed opinion. 
ALANSO The theory is incorrect, Mr. Lambert. 
JOSH How can it be incorrect? It's a theory. A scientific theory. 
ALANSO Yeah, well, science is bullshit. We didn't get here cos of no test-tubes. 
JOSH Alanso, if you keep talking like that I'm going to ask you to visit the principal. 
ALANSO Fine. 
He gets up and leaves as the class JEERS and BOOS. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, LAMBERT HOME - DAY 
Peace and quiet at last. 
Renai gropes in behind the bookcase, plucking a hidden jewelry box free. She pinches a cigarette out of it and lights it. 
She sits down at her piano, feeling the keys, warming her fingers up. Sunlight streams in through the windows. 
She takes out a notebook, filled with scribbled handwriting. 
She places the notebook on the sheetstand, then sets a small, mechanical METRONOME in motion and begins tapping out a sombre melody in time with it. 
RENAI (SINGING) Yeah, I'm looking west, always been looking that way, gonna get it all happening, just can't do it today... 
She stops and makes a note in her book. She starts over, rising to the emotion of the song. She's got a good voice. 
RENAI (CONT'D) (SINGING) Yeah, I'm looking west, always been looking that way, I'm gonna be somebody, I just can't be her today-- 
She is interrupted by the tinny sound of a baby crying. 
She stops playing and looks over at a baby monitor, the source of the noise. 
Renai deflates, her shoulders sagging in defeat. She closes her notebook and leaves the room. 
INT. CALI'S NURSERY - DAY 
Renai scoops up Cali, rocking her gently. 
A scratching sound interrupts. Rough. Frantic. Like a dog pawing at something. 
INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS 
Renai steps into the hall, curious. She can still hear it. She follows the sound to a door. Grabs the door handle. 
The sound abruptly ceases. 
INT. BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS 
The door whines open and stabs a blade of light onto a set of stairs that descend into a gloomy basement. 
Renai stands at the top of the stairs, squinting into the inky blackness, straining to see. 
She reaches up and yanks a light chain, illuminating a bare bulb and throwing light across the tenebrous space. 
The basement is large and completely bare. Cleaned out. 
Renai takes a step down. She is still carrying Cali. 
FURTHER DOWN below her, we see that there is one step that is cracked and broken. 
She takes another step. The broken step is right below her now. 
One more step and she will fall. 
Cali squeals happily. Renai pauses...then turns around, heading back up the stairs. Stops when she sees something. 
DEEP, VIOLENT SCRATCH MARKS...running downwards on the inside of the door...as if someone were trying to claw their way out. 
EXT. LAMBERT HOME - NIGHT 
A Spanish-style home. Very pretty. This is not the suburbs. More of an inner city neighborhood. There's history here. 
Josh pulls into the driveway of his new house in his Subaru. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, LAMBERT HOME - NIGHT 
The house almost looks liveable. 
Foster is watching loud, zany cartoons on TV. Cali is in a high chair. Renai is folding boxes. She has unpacked most of the living room and is very tired. 
Josh carries him up the stairs as he sucks in sobs. 
Renai glances around the basement, her eyes landing on the lone object that resides in it. 
She frowns. It wasn't there when she saw the basement last. 
It is a box. One of her large, cardboard moving boxes. 
It is marked LAMPS. 
INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Dalton is lying in bed, a band-aid slapped across his forehead. Renai tucks him in, Josh standing over him. 
JOSH You're lucky you don't need stitches. 
RENAI If I catch you falling down the stairs again I'm gonna break your neck. 
DALTON That doesn't make sense. 
There are dozens of pictures tacked to the wall, all drawn by Dalton. Josh taps one; a drawing of Dalton flying through the night sky, wearing his cape. 
DALTON (CONT'D) You might be a superhero but you're not invincible. Be more careful, bud. 
Renai kisses him and gets up. 
RENAI Sleep tight, honey. 
They wave goodbye and turn out the light. 
INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Renai flops into bed beside Josh, exhausted. 
JOSH We've gotta lock that door. 
RENAI He's such a boy. He goes off exploring. Sometimes I wanna keep him on one of those child leashes. 
JOSH Why bother with a child leash? I'll stop at the pet store tomorrow. 
She laughs and cuddles up to him, resting her head on his chest. 
RENAI I'm sorry I was pissy when you got home. I was trying to work on a song today and then Cali woke up and wouldn't stop crying... 
JOSH I didn't even notice. 
RENAI I feel guilty for wanting my own time. 
JOSH It's normal to want your own time. 
RENAI Is it? My mother gave up everything for me. I keep waiting for the completely selfless parent gene to kick in, but I'm exactly the same person I was when I was 22, only now I'm married with kids. 
JOSH You're a great mother. 
RENAI No, I'm not. They like you so much better than me. 
JOSH That's not true. 
RENAI You're the cool dad who comes home with presents and I'm the one who yells at them all day. 
JOSH Now you're being crazy. They love you. At least you get to connect with them. I work so much. 
RENAI Believe me, you're their hero. They try to play us off against each other. They're master manipulators. I guess they really are my kids. 
Josh laughs. A lull settles over them. 
RENAI (CONT'D) Is this it, Josh? 
JOSH Is this so bad? 
She doesn't answer. They sit in silence for a long beat. 
RENAI Thank you for letting me take some time off to work on my music again. 
JOSH We'll get by. I want you to do it. 
RENAI There's a couple of songs...I mean not all of them, but there's a couple of them that I think are really good. And I think, maybe I could do something with them. 
JOSH I love all your songs. 
They kiss. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
It is 3AM. All the remoteness of that hour is present here...we can feel it. 
As still and quiet as deep space. 
RENAI Why would you wanna change rooms? 
Foster swallows. 
FOSTER I don't know. 
Renai stares at her son. She kisses him again. 
RENAI Your brother needs you. Goodnight honey. 
INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Josh lies in bed, reading Foster's award. Renai is beside him. 
RENAI Something happened today. I didn't want to tell you in front of Foster. 
JOSH What? 
RENAI I heard something coming from Cali's room. A man's voice. On the baby monitor...it scared the hell outta me. I went in there and no one was there. 
JOSH Could it have been interference? 
RENAI I don't know. It was so clear. I was sitting at the piano and I heard this...whispering on the baby monitor. So I held my ear up to it-- 
SUDDENLY - a noise interrupts. An arrhythmic KNOCKING sound, like a drunk pounding on a tavern door after closing. 
It is the front door. 
JOSH Who the hell is that? 
Josh knows it's his job to check, but he doesn't want to. 
JOSH (CONT'D) Stay here. 
He gets up. 
INT. FRONT DOOR - NIGHT 
Josh approaches the front door, flashlight in hand. He peers through curtains at the front step. 
It's too dark to see anything. 
JOSH Hello? Who's there? 
Only the wind replies. 
He aims the flashlight at the glass, shining it into the thick darkness. There is no one on the front step. 
Josh presses the flashlight against the window, arcing the beam across his front garden. Leans in close to the glass... 
AND THEN-- 
Nothing. There's no one there. 
He makes sure the door is locked, then flips open a security system panel on the wall, pecking at the buttons on it. 
INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Renai sits up in bed, listening. Hears nothing... 
...until the low moans of a baby crying float out of the baby monitor. Renai hurls the sheet aside. 
INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
Renai pads down the hall, tentative. 
She reaches the open door to Cali's room. Sees the silhouette of Josh standing over Cali's crib. Exhales with relief. 
RENAI Who was it, Josh? 
Josh appears at the opposite end of the hallway. 
JOSH What did you say? 
Renai SCREAMS as the silhouette recedes into the shadows. 
RENAI There's someone in there! 
She RUNS towards Josh. 
RENAI (CONT'D) There's someone in Cali's room! 
Josh BOLTS down the hall, flicking on the light, terrified. 
The nursery is empty. Cali is sleeping. Terrified, Josh enters the room. Scans around. Only toys and colorful wallpaper. 
He steps in further. He's not cut out for this. 
He is not looking in at her...he is pacing back and forth, furiously smoking a cigarette. Back and forth, back and forth. Agitated. He has long, black, greasy hair and a grey jacket. 
Every muscle in Renai's body freezes. She becomes a glacier. 
Her eyes are drilled to the man, unable to move. By sheer will, she manages to direct them towards the bedroom door. Opens her mouth but no words will come. Finally-- 
RENAI Jo....osh....Josh....Josh... 
She glances back at the window. 
THE MAN IS NOW IN THE ROOM. 
He paces back and forth between the bed and the window, just as he was outside, ignoring Renai. Smoking like a fiend. 
And then, suddenly, he stops pacing. Looks up. Straight at Renai - as if just realizing she was there. 
For a moment their eyes are locked in silence... 
...and then the man's face contorts in anger and he CHARGES towards her, arms outstretched, GROWLING in fury. 
MAN DON'T YOU FUCKING DARE! 
Renai lets out a SHRIEK of terror that could strip paint. A cry from the depths of her soul. 
She propels herself backward, falling off the bed and scrambling back into the corner. 
Josh CHARGES into the room, flicking on the light-- 
--seeing only Renai, huddled in the corner, screaming. 
JOSH What is it? What is it?! 
Renai is incoherent. She cannot stop screaming. Josh grabs her by the shoulders. 
JOSH (CONT'D) Renai, what is wrong?! 
RENAI The man -- he was there -- he tried to -- there was a man there!!! 
Foster runs into the room, visibly terrified. He sees his mother and instantly begins crying. He runs to his dad, holding onto his leg. 
In the background, Cali begins crying, her screams contributing to an overwhelming din. 
JOSH There's no one here. 
RENAI I saw somebody! 
JOSH There's no one here. 
RENAI Don't you dare not believe me! 
JOSH I believe you, okay? I just don't know what you want me to do. 
RENAI I want you to tell me that we can leave this house. I will not spend one more night here. I wanna leave, I wanna go! 
FOSTER I don't want the man to get me. 
The realization that her child is terrified quiets Renai. 
All is suddenly silent, save for the cries of Cali in the background. Josh holds his son tight. 
JOSH You're okay, buddy. I've got you. 
He and Renai exchange a look. 
RENAI I'm sorry. (BEAT) I can't...I want to leave this house. I can't be here anymore. 
JOSH To move now would be...we would have to rent somewhere. It's not-- 
RENAI Please, Josh. 
An agreement passes between them. 
FADE TO BLACK. 
EXT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - DAY 
A moving truck is parked outside an average suburban home. 
Movers mill about, hauling boxes and couches. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY 
Renai unpacks boxes. An elderly woman, LORRAINE (65), helps to unpack. This is Josh's mother. She has a curt, disapproving manner about her that doesn't always make her easy to love. 
She is actually moving more quickly than Renai, who groans as if her back were aching as she stoops down to pick up books. 
RENAI Lorraine, you shouldn't have to do any of this. Sit down. 
With a sudden POP, the record starts skipping. 
Bump...bump...bump... 
Renai shuts off the water, heading back to the living room. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
She marches in, annoyed. 
Then freezes. 
Her bookshelf is empty. The books that once sat on it are now scattered across the floor. 
Bump...bump...bump... 
Renai scans the books. THEN SHE HEARS it... 
Giggling. 
She pivots her head towards the darkened hallway. There, she sees a child, hidden in shadow, standing in the hall. Staring at her. 
Bump...bump...bump... 
Renai doesn't move. Doesn't breathe. 
And then suddenly, the child turns and runs down the hall, disappearing into Dalton's bedroom. 
RENAI Oh my God, Dalton...no... 
Summoning every ounce of strength, Renai troops down the hall towards Dalton's room. 
INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Renai pushes the door open. 
Dalton lies in the center of the room on his gurney. The only sound is his breathing. 
Renai surveys the room. It is empty. 
Bump...bump...bump... 
She steps inside, glancing over at a cabinet. In the foot- high space beneath it, a small white shoe protrudes slightly. 
A child's shoe. 
Heart pounding, Renai bends down, peering into the darkness under the cabinet. 
Bump...bump...bump... 
The shoe does not have a foot in it. It is simply a discarded shoe. There is no one under the cabinet. 
BANG!!! BA G 
The cabinet doors EXPLODE open as the child bursts out, giggling. Only we see that it is not a child. 
It is a DWARF. A man in child's clothing. The dwarf runs past Renai as she LEAPS back. He runs out of the room, giggling. All is quiet again. 
Bump...bump...bump... 
Renai gets up, unsure of what to do. Numb with terror. 
SUDDENLY-- the record pitches back to life, the volume startling. Renai JOLTS, falling backwards. 
INT. CLASSROOM, FORRESTER HIGH SCHOOL - NIGHT 
A darkened class room. 
An older janitor, NED (68), shoulders the door open, carrying a mop. He STARTS when he sees Josh, sitting at his desk in the pale light of a desk lamp. Alone. 
NED Josh...didn't see you there. 
JOSH Sorry to scare you. 
NED What are you up to this late? 
Josh holds up his flask of whisky. He's a bit soused. 
JOSH Where did all the bartenders who listen to your troubles go, Ned? 
Ned nods sagely. He sets down his mop and grabs a chair, sitting in front of Josh with a sigh. He takes the flask. 
NED Never drink alone. If you take the dirty jokes out of drunkenness, all you're left with is the self loathing. 
He downs a hit from the flask, then hands it back. 
JOSH I don't need whisky for that. 
JOSH Are you kidding me? (TO LORRAINE) Was this your idea? 
RENAI No. It was mine. 
JOSH You've never been to a church in your life. Now you're inviting a priest into our home? I feel like I don't even know you right now. 
RENAI I'm scared. 
JOSH This is a fantasy, and you need a therapist, not a member of the clergy. 
RENAI (TO LORRAINE) I told you... 
LORRAINE What's happening to Renai is real. I've seen it for myself. (BEAT) I came here today because last night I had a dream about this place. 
INT. KITCHEN, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT 
We are FLOATING through the corridor, looking through Lorraine's POV. 
We are inside her dream. 
LORRAINE (V.O.) I was in this house...but it was late at night. 
The POV keeps moving, out of the kitchen and into the hall. 
LORRAINE (V.O.) (CONT'D) I tried to be quiet. I didn't want to wake anybody. I was afraid. 
The POV floats down the hall, reaching a door. The door opens, revealing Josh and Renai, sleeping. 
LORRAINE (V.O.) (CONT'D) I looked into your bedroom. You were both asleep. 
The POV keeps moving down the hall. 
LORRAINE (V.O.) (CONT'D) I knew that I was asleep in the dream...but I could feel that someone was awake in the house. 
We keep pushing on, reaching the door to Dalton's room. 
LORRAINE (V.O.) (CONT'D) I went into Dalton's room. 
The door pushes open. In the dark, we can see Dalton, in bed. 
LORRAINE (V.O.) (CONT'D) There was someone in there with him. 
The POV turns to see a DARK FIGURE, standing in the corner. 
LORRAINE (V.O.) (CONT'D) A man was standing in the corner of the room. (MORE) 
LORRAINE (V.O.) (CONT'D) I asked him who he was...he said he was a visitor. I asked him what he wanted...he said Dalton. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY 
Lorraine is clearly unsettled by the dream. 
LORRAINE I can still hear that voice. 
She looks up at Josh - and SCREAMS! 
Over Josh's shoulder, crouched down behind the couch and peeking up over the armrest at Lorraine, is a DIABOLICAL FIGURE. His face is PURE RED with smeared lipstick. His scalp is completely bald, yet tufts of hair dangle above his ears. Other than his face, his skin is charcoal black. 
Lorraine recoils back, utterly petrified. 
JOSH What is it? 
Lorraine stares eerily into his eyes. Frozen. 
LORRAINE He's here. 
Renai looks to Josh, who is at a total loss. She is crying. 
RENAI Help us... 
His anger fades and he steps over and takes her in his arms. 
JOSH I don't know how. 
LORRAINE I know somebody who can help...if you're willing to ask for it. 
EXT. NEW HOUSE - DAY 
A battered van is parked in the driveway of the house. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY 
Renai and Josh stand in front of two men. They are silent. 
The shorter one is a wiry young man who looks like he spends most of his time in dark rooms. Not a member of the beach volleyball team. This is SPECS (32). 
The other is TUCKER (33), a larger man with scruffy facial hair. He is eating a Hot Pocket. 
Specs and Tucker mill around the room. Tucker is carrying a small electronic device. He holds it against the wall. 
JOSH What is that? 
TUCKER Tri-field meter. It measures DC fields and the natural electro magnetic environment. 
SPECS Sometimes old wiring can leak into the atmosphere. It can cause hallucinations, changes in energy. 
TUCKER Yeah. It's a little more complicated than that, but, you know, you get the general idea. 
SPECS It's basically that. 
TUCKER Not really, but whatever. 
SPECS (TO JOSH) The tech stuff's not relevant to you anyway. 
TUCKER It's very relevant, but it's all good. 
INT. CORRIDOR, NEW HOUSE - LATER 
Tucker edges into the corridor. He switches out the light, then takes what looks like a modified VIEW-MASTER TOY out of his shoulder bag, holding it up to his eyes. 
He stalks down the corridor with it. All is quiet. 
TUCKER'S POV THROUGH VIEWMASTER - different filters highlight different degrees of UV light. Each slide changes the readings. 
He approaches the grandfather clock. Another slide clicks into place - showing us TWO FIGURES. Standing beside the clock. 
In the negative light, they look like females. 
Tucker lowers the device. There is no one there. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME 
Specs packs up the video equipment, babbling to Josh and Renai. 
SPECS Epilepsy in one of the children mostly. It's very common. If we approach things academically, it lets us find the genuinely interesting cases. 
Tucker backs into the room. Very slowly. He is afraid. 
TUCKER I think we can call Elise now... 
INT. FRONT DOOR, NEW HOUSE - EARLY EVENING 
Josh opens the door to see an elderly woman, ELISE RAINIER (73), who despite her years maintains a sprightly energy. 
There is absolutely nothing morbid or dour about her. 
JOSH Mrs. Rainier? 
ELISE No, my mother couldn't come, it's just me. Elise. You must be Lorraine's son? You've grown since I last saw you. 
JOSH Last saw me? 
ELISE Your mother and I have been friends for a long time. 
Elise steps inside. Renai, Tucker and Specs gather around her. Everyone becomes very subservient, like the Queen just arrived. 
ELISE (CONT'D) (re Specs and Tucker) They're very good assistants but I can't get them to dress any better. 
RENAI Hi. I'm Renai. 
ELISE Pleased to meet you. I'm Elise. 
Elise takes her hat off and scans the room, taking a deep breath. Tucker jabbers, eager to please. 
TUCKER We took Tri-field and EMF readings of the whole house. All the wiring, alarm clocks, radios, toasters, TV, record player, fuse box. Nothing went off the charts. 
ELISE And the previous home? 
Tucker and Specs look at each other. Oh shit. 
SPECS Tucker hadn't monitored that yet. I could jump on that this afternoon if you like? Make up for lost time. 
TUCKER Yeah, but who would work the equipment? I'll need to be there. You know what, don't even sweat it. I'll make myself available. 
ELISE No, that's fine, gentlemen. 
She stares up at the ceiling, as if seeing something they can't. 
ELISE (CONT'D) I don't think bad wiring is the problem here. 
She drifts over to the bookshelf, her hand landing on the stack of photo albums Renai looked through in the opening scene. 
ELISE (CONT'D) Hmm. 
Renai and Josh exchange a look. 
RENAI What is it? What do you see? 
Elise cups her hand over her mouth and whispers to Specs, keeping her eyes GLUED to the far corner of the ceiling. We cannot hear what she is whispering. 
Hand shaking, Specs feverishly starts to sketch. We cannot see what he is drawing. 
RENAI (CONT'D) What do you see?! 
The strokes of Specs' pencil become faster and rougher, keeping up with Elise's whispers. Sweat dots his forehead. 
Tucker glances at the drawing and steps back instinctively. He holds up his Viewmaster. 
POV THROUGH VIEWMASTER - we see the far corner of the ceiling change color as Tucker rotates the lenses inside...but nothing out of the ordinary appears. Just a ceiling. 
RENAI (CONT'D) Tell me! 
Suddenly, Renai charges forward, snatching the sketch book. 
The drawing is of a hideous form - crouched in the corner of the ceiling, staring down at Dalton below. It is the RED- FACED DEMON Lorraine saw earlier. 
His naked body is charcoal black...whilst also strangely translucent, the veins visible underneath the flesh. A corpulent stomach juts out, as if he were pregnant. 
Terrified, Renai flicks on the light -- 
-- revealing nothing but an ordinary ceiling. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY 
Elise holds court in the living room. 
Renai and Josh hold each other, struggling to comprehend it all. 
ELISE I'm not sure if you are ready to hear this yet...but unfortunately I can't waste any time easing you into it. There is no time left. 
She takes a deep breath, preparing herself. 
ELISE (CONT'D) I want you to know that this is what I believe and it may contradict a previous medical diagnosis. However, you called me here and I am taking that as an acceptance of my readings. 
RENAI Go on. 
ELISE Your son...is not in a coma. His physical body is here, but his spiritual body is not. (BEAT) The reason these disturbances followed you to a new home is because...it is not the house that is haunted. It is your son. 
This is too much for Josh. Renai, however, wants to listen. 
RENAI I don't understand... 
Elise considers what she is about to say carefully. 
ELISE Have you ever heard of astral projection? 
RENAI Out of body experiences? 
Elise nods. 
ELISE I call them travellers. These are people with the ability to leave their physical body and travel to different places in an astral form. To some degree, we all have the ability to do it...but most of us subconsciously suppress it or don't know how to access it. 
Josh shakes his head, agitated. Renai leans forward, desperate for an answer to her terror. 
ELISE (CONT'D) Dalton is...a very accomplished astral projector. He has been since he was very young. He's not afraid of his ability. And that lack of fear has led him to travel too far and become lost... 
RENAI Lost? Lost where? 
Elise gazes up at the ceiling, as if looking into another world. 
ELISE In The Further. 
RENAI What do you mean? 
ELISE The Further is that place beyond our perception, beyond our understanding of the physical world that we can see and touch. It is a place without clocks or measurements, without past or future...an infinite realm that holds all of our dreams...and all of our nightmares. 
She turns to look at them. 
ELISE (CONT'D) That is where Dalton is. 
Renai cries, unprepared for what she is hearing. 
ELISE (CONT'D) The problem is that with his astral body gone, he has left a physical body with us. An empty vessel. 
Josh can't meet her gaze. 
ELISE (CONT'D) And there are entities that know this. They can smell it - the chance to live again. That is why they have gathered around him. 
RENAI How many are there? 
ELISE There are five benevolent spirits. Five different entities for whom Dalton has become a most prized possession. They are trying to get inside his physical body...and they get closer with each passing day. 
Her words hang in the air like gunsmoke. Pure fear courses through Josh's eyes. He fidgets, agitated. 
dalton are you there? dalton? An agonizing ocean of silence...then this furious scrawl: 
listen to me you filthy whore he isnt here you should not have come here you fucking bitch i will rip your cunt apart and eat the fucking innards that spill forth from it i HAVESEENYOUIKNOWWHOYOUAREBUTYOUANDTHE Specs writing begins to SHRED the paper as he writes furiously, the scrawl getting out of control. Sweat flies from his forehead as he struggles to get it all down. 
Suddenly a PIERCING SCREAM blasts through the microphone and he jerks it away from his ear - then looks over at Elise. 
With UTTER DREAD, he sees that she is NO LONGER WEARING THE MASK. She has taken it off and is panting heavily. 
The scream continues through the mic, audible to everyone...then peters out. 
Shocked silence follows. 
Josh glances over at Dalton's bed. 
He is not in it. 
Stunned, Josh turns back to the table-- 
--TO SEE DALTON SITTING NEXT TO HIM. STARING AT HIM. 
His heart leaps out of his skin and so does Renai's as they both turn towards Dalton. Their son. 
Dalton stares at them...not a trace of emotion on his face. 
Then he reaches up and grips his bottom jaw with both hands, wrenching it downwards with almighty force and BREAKING HIS OWN JAW. 
Renai SCREAMS into the abyss as Dalton BELLOWS at them, spit flying from his throat, his tongue hanging down over his dislocated jaw. 
He stamps his foot and the table - and everyone sitting at it, Renai, Josh and Elise - go flying backwards as if pushed by a hurricane, smashing into the wall with crushing power. 
We realize that Dalton was not sitting at the table, but squatting down awkwardly. Painfully. 
He stands up, then steps forward. As Josh and Renai watch, his KNEE begins to BEND BACKWARDS, the tendons stretching and snapping, the knee bending in the opposite direction. 
His other knee follows and he steps forward - both knees bending back. 
Specs is rigid in his chair, rooted to the spot, notepad still in hand. When he looks up at Dalton, the flashlight under his chin shines in Dalton's eyes. 
Dalton ROARS and advances forward - SLAPPING Specs with the force of ten men. Specs reels backwards, hitting the wall, smashing his head and crumpling like paper. 
Elise stands to face Dalton. The CAMERA FLASH goes off again, lighting the darkened room for a split second and showing Elise the lipstick-smeared face of a demon instead of Dalton's face. 
Tucker SHRINKS BACK as he captures all this with the video camera. 
Dalton steps forward again and Elise CHARGES at him, grabbing Dalton by the hair. 
ELISE Leave this vessel! Leave this vessel! 
Dalton BELLOWS again - a howl so course and ungodly that it seems ripped straight from the bowels of Lucifer himself. 
ELISE (CONT'D) LEAVE THIS VESSEL! 
Dalton FLIES backwards, hitting the corner of the wall and then CLIMBING IT, arcing his body into the far corner of the ceiling like an expert contortionist. 
He hisses at them as the CAMERA FLASH fires AGAIN AND AGAIN, showing them split second frames of the red faced CREATURE. 
ELISE (CONT'D) Leave this earthly body! 
Dalton shrieks again and somehow the force of the cry knocks Elise down. 
The room begins to shake. 
Books fly. 
The closet doors burst open. 
With terror, Elise looks over and sees several figures peering out from within the closet. 
Two are the women that Specs' drew. Another is a small man, dressed like a child. 
They stare out at Elise, their eyes glinting in the dark. 
Elise turns to see Josh. The camera flash STROBES repeatedly and gives us split-second glimpses of an OLD WOMAN, dressed in Victorian era garb - standing directly behind Josh. 
And then, with absolute fear, Renai sees the LONG HAIRED MAN standing over her. He SCREAMS at her and pushes her against the wall, licking her. She cries out, terrified. 
With the spirit world, crashing in around her, Elise pulls herself off the floor and yells again. 
ELISE (CONT'D) Leave his body! 
Dalton suddenly SPASMS, dropping out of the corner and hitting the floor like a rag doll dropped off a bridge. 
ELISE (CONT'D) The lights! 
Terrified, Specs' scrambles over to the corner, flicking the light switch. The room is instantly flooded with light. 
The room has stopped shaking. The screaming has stopped. 
JOSH What are you talking about? 
Lorraine can't go on. Elise steps in. 
ELISE It's no accident that your son is such a gifted traveller. The ability was handed down to him. (BEAT) By his father. 
FLASHCUT TO: 
INT. DARKENED BEDROOM - NIGHT - FLASHBACK 
We have returned to the opening scene. 
We are looking down on a sleeping child. Chest rising and falling with each breath. 
This is JOSH as a child. 
We move away from him, exploring the dark room. 
FLASHCUT TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - PRESENT 
Tucker and Specs enter the room, lingering at the back. 
JOSH No...I've never...done that before. 
LORRAINE When you were about eight...you suffered night terrors. Awful fits of pure fear. You were terrified of an old woman who you said would come to visit you at night. 
FLASHCUT TO: 
INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT - FLASHBACK 
Again we return to the opening scene...floating down a long hallway. 
A window at the end of the hall enlarges as we approach. 
Someone is standing in front of it. 
The murky silhouette of the figure turns and walks away. We follow it, tentative. Turning a corner, we see the figure. Standing in a doorway. 
Now we can make out the edges of the figure. It is an old woman. Hair in a Victorian bun. A corseted dress. 
IT IS THE SAME OLD WOMAN THAT ELISE SAW. 
OLD WOMAN Let me in. 
FLASHCUT TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT 
Lorraine closes her eyes, struggling to go on. 
LORRAINE I dismissed your stories. Told you to grow up. (BEAT) Then I saw her for myself. 
She looks to Elise, who nods. 
Hand trembling, Lorraine retrieves a packet from within her coat. The paper is yellowing. Faded. Soaked from the rain. 
Lorraine hands the packet to Josh, who is dumbfounded. 
Renai peers over Josh's shoulder, at a Polaroid of a boy, about nine years old, sitting on a couch. Early 70s period. 
It is a Young Josh. Behind him is the BLURRED OUTLINE OF A FIGURE. 
Josh runs his finger over the shadow. His heart rate speeds up. An old memory is coming back to him. 
LORRAINE (CONT'D) At first, I thought it was a camera problem. Then I saw her again. 
Josh flips to the next photo - it is another faded frame of Josh as a youngster. This time he stands in an old kitchen. 
Once again, there is a figure behind him - clearer this time, but still hidden in silhouette. A step closer to Josh. 
Josh flips to the next picture. A BLACK AND WHITE shot of himself as a young boy, lying in bed. 
With dread, Josh sees the unmistakable features of an OLD WOMAN, crouching beside his bed. Staring at him. 
LORRAINE (CONT'D) In each photo, she got closer and closer to you... 
Josh flips to the next picture - in this one, Young Josh is standing by a car. 
Behind him, the details of the Old Woman's dress are visible. Her arm is extended...reaching out for Josh's neck. 
Renai's hand flies to her mouth. 
LORRAINE (CONT'D) Finally, I was so scared, I called Elise. 
Sweat pours down Josh's brow. 
She can see him. 
ELISE (SOFTLY) Now you are free. (BEAT) Keep your guide, and a steady stride...and into The Further you go. 
She turns back to the Josh in the chair. The room seems to have darkened even more somehow. 
Josh turns and glares into the darkness of his hallway as it yawns outwards, eventually swallowed by complete blackness. 
He is not in another world. He is in his own house. 
NOTE - The following scenes are not going to be "movie quiet". They will be inhumanly quiet. There will no score. Only sound scape. This is another world and should feel so. 
Josh moves forward, gliding down the hall slowly. He looks down and sees that his feet are slighty raised off the ground. 
He is floating. 
He moves into the darkness of the hall...past the bedroom doors and closet doors. 
As he floats past, he scans every darkened corner for the slightest trace of movement. 
He reaches the front door. He moves towards it and as he does it OPENS. 
EXT. THE FURTHER - NOT NIGHT OR DAY, BUT DARK 
His street beckons beyond the door. 
Josh floats across his lawn. 
There are no people or cars on the street...it is as desolate as a post-apocalyptic wasteland. A TOTAL ABSENCE OF LIFE. 
Some lights flicker from within the houses, but no movement or signs of human forms. Only mist. 
Josh floats an inch above the road, moving down the street. 
One thing to notice is that there is a total lack of horizon or city scape here...Josh's immediate surroundings are visible for about one hundred yards or so...anything beyond that, in any direction, fades into blackness. As if someone were shining a giant spotlight down on him. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD 
Renai watches Josh. He is completely still...in a trance. 
His eyelids flutter as his eyeballs probe in all directions underneath. 
ELISE He's in... 
EXT. THE FURTHER - NIGHT 
Josh keeps moving, his fear registering, even in this world. 
He looks down at his feet. 
He is frustrated that he can't move any faster. He concentrates with fierce intensity-- 
--and then watches as his feet touch the ground. 
He is walking. 
He starts to move faster, gaining control of his movement. 
JOSH Dalton? 
The sound of his voice is strangely dead - as if he were inside a soundproof recording studio. There are no walls or angles for it to bounce off. 
JOSH (CONT'D) Dalton? Where are you? 
For a long time, there is nothing... 
...then he sees it. 
A figure...shrouded in shadow. Standing on the street corner with his back to Josh. 
Josh moves towards the figure. 
Closer. Closer. 
The man abruptly turns the corner without looking back. 
Josh glances around the corner. There is nobody there. 
He continues down the street. He sees a little girl. Far in the distance, but close enough to focus on. She stands and stares... 
...then turns and walks away. Gone...like an apparition. 
He looks to his right and sees-- 
--A SHADOW. 
Behind a curtain in one of the windows, back lit by candle light. As with the others, the shadow turns away and disappears. 
He realizes he knows where he is. He is in his OLD HOUSE. An alternate world version of it. 
The lighting is different - it's darker. There are no signs of life. Water drips somewhere. 
Josh stumbles forward, seeing an open door. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS 
Josh slinks into a darkened and dilapidated living room. 
There are THREE PEOPLE in here - a middle aged woman, a middle aged man and a young girl. They are all FROZEN, standing in place as if someone had hit the pause button on their life. 
The woman is in the middle of ironing. The man is sitting in an arm chair reading a newspaper. The girl is lying on the floor. 
The whole scene looks like a macabre `Leave It To Beaver' tableau - a cheerful family frozen in time. 
Josh steps closer to the mother... 
...hairs prickling up on his neck when he sees her BLINK. Her body moves slightly. She is not frozen - merely playing statues. Like a street performer keeping as still as possible. 
Josh turns to the father. He is the same. His hand shakes, struggling to hold the newspaper in place. 
He backs away from them, truly creeped out. His back hits a window and he turns, peering through the glass down at the street below. 
A figure, hidden in silhouette, is gazing up at him. 
INT. KITCHEN, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS 
Josh stalks into a kitchen off the living room. A weathered door is adjacent to the kitchen. 
The door is ajar. 
Through it, Josh can see somebodies leg. 
Josh approaches the door, prodding it open gently with his finger. 
It is a bedroom. A tattered cot sits against the wall. A YOUNG MAN (17) sits on the cot, holding a rifle. Like the others, he is trying to be completely still, as if on pause. 
He is having more trouble than the family, trembling slightly. 
JOSH I'm looking for my son, Dalton. 
The boy does not look up. Does not move. 
Josh retreats, scanning the kitchen. There are soiled pots in the sink. Rotting food, but no bugs. Josh turns the faucet but no water comes forth. 
When he turns back, the YOUNG MAN is gone. No longer in his bedroom. 
Josh glances back at the living room. 
The Young Man is now standing inside the living room. 
Again, he is frozen. Holding his rifle. Looking down at his family, who are now splayed out on the carpet, soaked in BLOOD. 
Each of them has a bullet hole in their head. 
Repulsed, Josh tip-toes past them. He looks down at the mother - a bullet wound in the center of her chest. 
She blinks...still playing dead. 
INT. CORRIDOR, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS 
More corridors disappearing into darkness. 
Josh wrenches his hair in frustration. He boils over, screaming at the top of his lungs. 
JOSH DALTON!!!! WHERE ARE YOU?!!! 
His cry recedes into nothingness. 
DALTON (O.S.) Dad.... 
He heard that. Excited, he spins around, trying to determine where it came from. 
As he does, he sees that the entire dead family is now gathered at the door to the living room. Watching him. 
He summons all his strength and starts running, backing away from them. 
He drives himself to move faster and faster. 
JOSH DALTON! 
DALTON (O.S.) Dad...help me... 
JOSH DALTON!! 
A figure suddenly appears at the end of the hallway. 
The creature daubs RED LIPSTICK onto its face, arching forward, glaring into the mirror, caking the make-up on. 
The room is littered with hundreds of discarded CHILDREN'S TOYS - teddy bears, stuffed animals, dolls (including one white-faced, black-haired doll we recognize). They are scattered about like bones, collecting dust in the shadows. 
Suddenly the creature stops what it is doing. It sees something in the mirror. 
What it sees is Josh. 
INT. BALLROOM, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS 
With horror, Josh watches as the Red-Faced Man stands up and staggers to the door, peering through the crack at him. 
Josh wrestles to free Dalton's leg from the chain. No good. 
Behind them the Red Faced Man opens the door. A rage unknown to humans is building up inside the creature. He hisses. 
DALTON Help me, dad...take this off me... 
The creature steps closer. Taking his time. Drool seeping from his mouth with each drunken, wayward lope. 
JOSH You're not really here. You're asleep in your bed in our home. Just stand up. 
DALTON He's going to hurt me again... 
JOSH This isn't real. You can do this. 
DALTON He's coming! 
JOSH Just stand up! 
Dalton does - and suddenly finds that the chain is no longer attached to his foot. 
The Red Faced Man ROARS and the power of his breath sends them FLYING BACK. 
RED-FACED MAN This...issssss....real! 
Josh smashes his head on a pillar, blood leaking from his head. The power of this demon far outweighs the others. 
RED-FACED MAN (CONT'D) That...issss...my....boy! 
Josh scrambles to his feet and snatches up Dalton, carrying him to the door as the Red Faced Man pursues. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD 
Josh convulses in the chair, choking. 
RENAI Help him! 
INT. CORRIDOR, THE FURTHER 
Josh surges down a corridor, carrying Dalton. 
The Red-Faced Man hobbles up behind them, his rasping wheeze growing in volume. 
RED-FACED MAN You're here now! With ussss! 
Josh stampedes through the front door of the house - but instead of the street, he is facing another corridor. 
They spill into the second corridor, running again, racing past rows and rows of doors. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD 
Josh twitches in his chair, sweat beading on his forehead. 
JOSH (MOANING) ....ome....onnnnn... 
Elise paces in front of him. 
ELISE They've made contact. I know it. He's found your son. 
RENAI What happens now? 
ELISE We need them to come back. We need him to find us. 
Tucker's equipment begins to shake on the table. The hanging light above them quivers as if an earthquake were rattling it. 
A force is building in the room. 
INT. CORRIDOR, THE FURTHER 
As Josh and Dalton streak down the corridor, each door opens and a different figure staggers out. 
Grotesque figures...the solemn dead. Pale skin, hollow eyes. Their dead eyes drill into Josh's soul. 
They want what he has - life. 
They begin running - chasing Josh. Dozens of them. 
She leers at Josh through the window of the basement, her visage spookily flecked in candlelight. 
Josh is transfixed. 
DALTON (CONT'D) Come on, dad! Come on! 
JOSH Go! I'm right behind you! 
Dalton charges ahead as Josh glares back at this face from his past. 
JOSH (CONT'D) You...what do you want from me? 
The old woman's eerily unblinking gaze cuts through Josh. A long dormant rage BOILS OVER inside him. He approaches the window, vomiting fury at her. 
JOSH (CONT'D) Get the fuck away from me! I'm not scared of you, just leave me alone! Get away from me! 
The old woman's lips protract to unveil a yellow graveyard of molars. A smile to buckle the steeliest nerve. 
She raises a lit candle to her lips. 
She snuffs out the plume with a single puff...plunging the basement into darkness. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME 
Specs staggers back as the skeletal figures emerging from the cabinets ambulate into the living room, surrounding Josh. 
RENAI (TO JOSH) Find us! 
ELISE (TO SPECS) Check on the boy! 
Specs sprints out of the room. 
INT. CORRIDOR, LAMBERT HOME, THE FURTHER 
We are now locked into a POV shot, pushing down the corridor of the Lambert's NEW HOUSE. The scene of the trance. 
Our POV is bee-lining for Dalton's bedroom. 
INT. BASEMENT, LAMBERT HOME, THE FURTHER 
In another POV shot, we SURGE up the basement stairs. 
INT. CORRIDOR, NEW HOUSE, THE FURTHER 
Our POV is only a few yards from Dalton's bedroom door. 
The Red-Faced Man appears at the opposite end of the hall. Malevolent. Cruel. 
He SCREAMS and flits towards us. 
The POV keeps going, hitting the bedroom door and FLINGING IT OPEN - seeing DALTON'S BODY sleeping inside. 
We SOAR towards it, getting closer-- 
INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD 
Specs stands over Dalton's body. 
SUDDENLY - Dalton shudders, his legs spasm. His eyes FLICK open and he SUCKS IN A HUGE BREATH. 
SPECS He's awake! 
Dalton sits up, panting. Renai charges into the room. He looks at her, registering her appearance. 
DALTON Mom... 
Renai literally throws herself at him, wrapping her arms around his body. No words can express. 
Renai scoops him up, carrying him out of the bedroom. 
INT. CORRIDOR, NEW HOUSE, THE FURTHER 
The second POV whooshes down the corridor, zeroing in on the living room. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS 
A scene of desperation. 
Elise leans into Josh's face. 
The living room is now filled with the CREEPING FORMS of the souls who crawled out from within the drawers. All of them marching towards Josh. 
ELISE Find me, Josh! Now! Wake up! 
The closest entity reaches out with gnarled fingers and is almost touching Josh-- 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE, THE FURTHER 
Like the hand of an eighty year old woman. 
Shocked, she looks up at his face. 
JOSH (CONT'D) What's wrong? 
Elise stands. She looks haunted. Her eyes wide and unnerved. 
ELISE Nothing, I... 
She turns away, reaching for something. 
JOSH What's the matter, Elise? 
She spins around and lifts Tucker's camera up to her face, aiming it at him. She depresses the trigger and takes a photo of him, bathing the whole corridor in white light. 
Josh recoils back in shock. Elise lowers the camera. She is terrified. Josh suddenly LUNGES at her, slapping the camera out of her hands. 
JOSH (CONT'D) Why the fuck would you do that? Why would you do that? Why?! 
He SLAMS her against the wall, his hands around her throat. 
Elise chokes in terror, terrified of him. 
JOSH (CONT'D) You of all people! You know! Why would you do that to me when you know what you know? You bitch! 
He abruptly stops attacking her, staggering backwards, examining his hands as if he can't believe what he's done. Seething with fury. Panting. 
Elise collapses, catching her breath. 
Josh swipes a framed photo off the wall and storms away, heading down the corridor... 
...swallowed up by the darkness. 
INT. MASTER BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME 
Renai furrows her brow. 
RENAI What was that? (beat; to Dalton) Stay here. 
She gets up. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT 
Renai jogs into the living room. Sees Elise lying on the floor. 
RENAI Elise, what was that noise? 
Elise simply looks up at her. The utter terror on her face is palpable. Her neck is bleeding from scratch marks. 
RENAI (CONT'D) Jesus...what happened to you? 
Elise just stares, unable to speak. Her fear is contagious. 
RENAI (CONT'D) Where's Josh? (BEAT) Josh? Josh?! 
She turns and runs into the corridor, flicking on the lights. 
There is nobody there. 
INT. CORRIDOR, NEW HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 
Renai dashes from room to room in the hallway, pitching each door open. 
Each room is empty. Josh is nowhere to be found. 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME 
Elise stares at Tucker's camera in a state of catatonic dread. 
Renai backs into the room, her own fear rising in her gut. She leans down and grabs Elise by the shoulders. 
RENAI Elise, what happened? You're scaring me, tell me where Josh is? 
Elise finally looks up at her. Seeing the "expert" so afraid unnerves Renai. When the lion-tamer drops his whip and runs, you know the lion is vicious. 
Elise opens her mouth to speak...but nothing comes out. 
Instead, she simply holds up the camera, showing Renai the digital display of the photo she took. 
We do not see it. 
We simply see the look of horror on Renai's face. 
FLASHCUT TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - FLASHBACK 
