Interview with the Vampire 
Interview with the Vampire 
Screenplay by			Anne Rice 
Produced by			Stephen Woolley David Geffen 
Directed by			Neil Jordan 
Cast List: 
Tom Cruise			Lestat de Lioncourt Brad Pitt			Louis Pointe du Lac Antonio Banderas		Armand Stephen Rea			Santiago Christian Slater		Daniel Malloy Kirsten Dunst			Claudia 
FADE IN: 
INT. ROOM - NIGHT (SAN FRANCISCO) 
A small bare room, illuminated only by the streetlight coming through the window. 
A hand presses a cassette into a recorder and fiddles with a small microphone. 
Malloy sits over a table fiddling with the tape. He is young, half-shaven, dressed in T-shirt and jeans. He looks too - 
LOUIS, who stands by the window, looking out on the street, with his back to Malloy. Louis is dressed in an old-fashioned suit. 
LOUIS So you want me to tell you the story of my life... 
MALLOY That's what I do. I interview people. I collect lives. F.M. radio. F.F.R.C. I just interviewed a genuine hero, a cop who - 
LOUIS (quietly interrupting) You'd have to have a lot of tape for my story. I've had a very unusual life. 
MALLOY So much the better. I've got a pocket full of tapes. 
LOUIS You followed me here, didn't you? 
MALLOY Saw you in the street outside. You seemed interesting. Is this where you live? 
LOUIS It's just a room... 
MALLOY So shall we begin? (playfully, almost teasing) What do you do? 
LOUIS I'm a vampire. 
Malloy laughs. 
MALLOY See? I knew you were interesting. You mean this literally, I take it? 
LOUIS Absolutely. I was watching you watching me. I was waiting for you in that alleyway. And then you began to speak. 
MALLOY Well, what a lucky break for me. 
LOUIS Perhaps lucky for both of us. 
Still in shadow he turns from the window and approaches the table. 
LOUIS I'll tell you my story. All of it. I'd like to do that very much. 
Malloy is uneasy as he studies the shadowy figure, fascinated but afraid. 
MALLOY You were going to kill me? Drink my blood? 
LOUIS Yes but you needn't worry about that now. Things change. 
Louis stands opposite, hand on the chair. Malloy is riveted. 
MALLOY You believe this, don't you? That you're a vampire? You really think... 
LOUIS We can't begin this way. Let me turn on the light. 
MALLOY But I thought vampires didn't like the light. 
LOUIS We love it. I only wanted to prepare you. 
Louis pulls the chord of the overhead naked light bulb. 
LOUIS' FACE 
Appears inhumanly white, eyes glittering. Inhuman or not alive. the effect is subtle, beautiful and ghastly. 
MALLOY Good God! 
He struggles to suppress fear and understand. 
LOUIS Don't be frightened. I want this opportunity. 
Louis running up the steps leading to the gallery. He is crazed with guilt. He looks up and sees - 
LESTAT 
Sitting collected at the head of the steps. 
LOUIS 
Backs away as Lestat rises and descends the steps so fluidly he hardly seems to move. 
LESTAT Don't worry. He was white trash, they come at two a penny. I dumped him in the swamp and untied the slave, licked his wounds clean. 
LOUIS You're the devil, aren't you? That's who you are. 
LESTAT (gently) I wish I were. But if I were, what would I want with you? 
LOUIS I can't go through with it, I tell you. 
LESTAT Your perfect. Your bitter and you're strong. 
LOUIS But why do you want me? 
LESTAT Because you're as strong as I was when I was alive. 
Louis takes out his flask and drinks. Drunkenly, he turns and heads for a nearby swamp. 
EXT. CEMETERY - NIGHT 
Louis stops again in front of the crypt. Drinks from the flask, leans his forehead against the stone. 
Lestat appears beside him, radiant, beautiful. 
LESTAT You really want to be with them? 
LOUIS Yes. Kill me. Kill me like you promised - 
LESTAT You asked for death. I didn't promise it - 
In a quiet rage, Lestat raise his fist and shatters the marble face stone, revealing a coffin below. His fist shatters that in turn, revealing the half-rotted body of a women, holding an infant, no longer recognizable as individuals, a tangle of gruesome rotted hair, flesh, eaten away lace, insects and worms crawling over it. 
Louis gasps. 
LESTAT It's not your wife and child my friend. It's death. Just that simple. Think and choose. It happens to everyone. Except us. 
Lestat stares at him, smiling, becoming a hazy dreamlike vision, then hyperclear. Louis again is spellbound. He drops the flask, which shatters on the stones. 
Lestat appears angelic in his radiance. 
LESTAT We shall be this way always, my friend. Young as we are now. I'm lonely for a companion, lonely for your strength. But I'm not that lonely. Do you want to come or not? 
Louis capitulates in one long sigh. 
LOUIS Yes... 
Lestat comes closer, smiling. 
LESTAT Did I hear a yes? 
LOUIS Yes... 
Lestat embraces Louis, obscuring his face. He drinks his blood. We hear two heartbeats, out of sync, coming together. We see Louis' face, growing paler, paler, as his blood is drained. His eyes stare upwards, losing their focus. 
LOUIS' POV 
The moon, through hanging vines. The marble statue of his wife and child smile at him, as if come alive. Her hair blows in the breeze, wonderful gold tresses, the child's fingers reach out... 
BACK TO SCENE 
Lestat lets Louis fall down beside the broken crypt. Louis looks from the rotting bodies to Lestat above him. radiant. Lestat speaks gently. 
LESTAT I've drained you to the point of death. If you drink from me you live for ever. If I leave you here you die. 
Lestat lifts his hand to his lips and blows Louis a kiss. 
LOUIS No. Don't leave me here. Give it to me. 
Lestat lifts his own right wrist to his teeth. Fangs slash his own flesh, blood falls. 
LESTAT You're sure? 
LOUIS Sure... 
Louis rises to accept the first drops with his open mouth. Lestat gathers him up, as Louis clamps his hand on Lestat's arm and drinks from the wrist. 
The VAMPIRE THEME swells. 
They walk down the crowded night street, full of ladies in their finery, freed slaves, whores, sailors etc. 
LOUIS (V.O.) Lestat killed two, sometimes three a night. A fresh young girl, that was his favorite for the first of the evening. 
INT. FRENCH QUARTER MANSION - BALLROOM 
Small orchestra plays for colonial couples in fine wig and garb prancing to a French minuet. Young women sit in chairs along the walls with their chaperones. Young men stand opposite. 
LOUIS (V.O.) But the triumphant kill of Lestat was a young man. They represented the greatest loss to Lestat because they stood on the threshold of the maximum possibility of life. 
A youth of preternatural beauty, silhouetted against French windows. He is talking to an elegant widow, seated, holding two manicured poodles. Lestat stares at the youth with longing. 
LESTAT The trick is not to think about it. See that one? The widow St. Clair? she had that gorgeous young fop murder her husband. She's perfect for you. Go ahead. 
LOUIS But how do you know? 
LESTAT Read her thoughts. 
LOUIS I can't. 
LESTAT The dark gift is different for each of us. But one thing is true of everyone. We grow stronger as we go along. 
He leads Louis closer to them. 
LESTAT Take my word for it. She blamed a slave for his murder. And do you know what they did to him? 
He smiles at the young man, who smiles in return. 
LESTAT The evildoers are easier. And they taste better... 
EXT. LAWNS - NIGHT 
Lestat walks the youth towards a copse of trees. He looks back at Louis, who holds both poodles on a delicate leash, walking with the widow. The minuet spills from the french windows. 
WIDOW ST. CLAIR Now, young man, you really amaze me! I'm old enough to be your grandmother. 
She leans towards him concquettishly. Louis, crazed with hunger, sees her as beautiful in the moonlight. He allows her lips reach his. He takes her in his arms, gently, romantically, and sinks in his teeth. She swoons. 
WIDOW ST. CLAIR Yes, that's the melody, I remember it. Oh yes... 
Louis draws his lips away. She is weak in his arms, but still alive. He can't do it. The poodles growl. He shoots out an arm and grabs one, then the other. 
EXT. TREES - NIGHT 
Lestat, bending over the body of the dead youth. A scream pierces the night. 
WIDOW ST CLAIR Murder!!! Murderer!! 
EXT. LAWNS. NIGHT 
The widow on the grass, her poodles dead beside her. Louis is trying to quiet her. 
WIDOW ST CLAIR My little papillions! My butterflies!!! He killed them!!! 
Lestat comes from nowhere, claps a hand over her mouth and breaks her neck. He spits in fury at Louis. 
LESTAT You whining coward of a vampire who prowls the night killing rats and poodles. You could have finished us both! Louis throws himself on Lestat with extraordinary force, pummeling him towards the trees. 
LOUIS What have you done to me? You've condemned me to hell. 
LESTAT I don't know any hell - 
Louis hurls him against tree after tree with a strength he never knew he had. 
LOUIS You want to see me kill? Watch me kill you then - 
He drags him to the ground an throttles him. Lestat looks up at him, amazed and amused at the same time. 
LESTAT What strength, my friend, what strength. I remember why I chose you now. 
Lestat squirms from his grip, seemingly effortlessly. 
LESTAT But you can't kill me, Louis. Nor I you. 
He ruffles Louis' hair, with wry affection. 
LESTAT Feed on what you want, mon cherie. Rats, chickens, doves, goats. I'll leave you to it and watch you come round. Just remember, life without me would be even more unbearable... 
He smiles. A sly, pleasurable secret secret smile. 
EXT. POINTE DU LAC - NIGHT 
Their carriage draws up to the mansion as the first fingers of light spread across the sky. 
LOUIS (V.O.) Being a vampire to him meant revenge. Revenge against life- itself. Every time he took a life it was revenge. and the slaves with a wisdom that was denied their masters, began to notice... 
LOUIS No, ma cher. I need no supper. Is all well at Pointe Du Lac tonight? 
Yvette draws closer. Light reveals her beauty. 
YVETTE We worry about you master. When do you ride about the fields? How long since you've been to the slave quarters? Everywhere there is death. Animals, men. Are you our master still at all? 
Louis watches her sadly. He's getting hungry. Her throat is long and slender, her breasts are gorgeous. 
LOUIS (dazed) Leave me alone now, Yvette. 
YVETTE I will not go unless you listen to me. Send away this new friend of yours. The slaves are frightened of him. They are frightened of you. 
She comes closer, and he can hear her beating heart. She touches his hair. He takes her hand and brings it to his lips. 
LOUIS I am frightened of myself, Yvette. 
He kisses her wrist. She suddenly gasps, sharply, withdraws her hand. She sees her wrist is red with blood. She sees the blood on his lips. She screams. 
Louis stands. 
LOUIS Hush, Yvette - 
She screams even louder. Louis clamps his hand over her mouth. Her hand grips the table-cloth, pulls, bringing the empty glasses and crockery to the floor. 
In horror, Louis realizes he has broken her neck. He brings her cut wrist to his lips, then drops it, revolted. He carries her body outside, grief-stricken. 
The drumming grows louder. 
EXT. MANSION - NIGHT 
Fires burning in the distance, round the slave-cabins. The slaves are gathered at the foot of the mansion steps. They see Louis come out, holding the body of Yvette. He is deranged with grief. 
LOUIS This place is cursed. Damned, do you hear me? And your master is the devil. 
He places the body of Yvette in a rocking chair on the veranda. 
LOUIS Get out while you can. You're free men. 
They don't move. They stare at him blankly. 
LOUIS Unlike me, you are no free men... 
He turns behind him, and looks at the mansion, all candelabra and chandeliers lighted, all windows open. 
LOUIS Do I have to convince you? 
He rushed up the stairs, snatches up the candelabra and sets fire to the drapes. He goes from window to window, lighting drapes, lace curtains, everything. 
SLAVES POV - MASTER 
Setting fire to the house. 
They rush up the stairs with shouts of "STOP HIM, HE'S MAD". A wall of flame gushes out from the interior, blocking their way. 
INT. BURNING MANSION - NIGHT 
Louis, wandering from room to room of the burning mansion. he sees paintings of his wife consumed by the flames. He is weakening with the fumes, the heat. We can see this in his face, the texture of his skin. 
Suddenly a large french window cascades inwards and Lestat stands there, whip in hand. Behind him we can see the morning sky. 
LESTAT You fool, what have you done? 
LOUIS What you wouldn't do. It's almost sunrise. It will be the sun or the fire. You said they can kill me. The sun or the fire! 
Louis stands there, weakened, then collapses onto the floor. Lestat darts forward and catches him before he drops. He runs out the shattered window, carrying him on his shoulder. 
EXT. LARGE GRAVEYARD - DAWN 
With many crypts. Louis, unconscious, carried over Lestat's shoulder. 
INT. CRYPT 
Darkness. Louis lying on the floor of a large crypt. He slowly comes to. 
LOUIS Where are we? 
LESTAT Where do you think, my idiot friend? We're in a nice filthy cemetery. Does this make you happy? Is this fitting and proper enough? 
Louis laughs softly. 
LOUIS We belong in hell. 
LESTAT And what if there is no hell, or they don't want us there? Ever think of that? 
INT. ROOM. SAN FRANCISCO - NIGHT 
He walks to his coffin, puts her inside and sits on the lid. We hear muffled screaming and banging from inside. 
LOUIS Why do you do this Lestat? 
LESTAT I like to do it. I enjoy it. Take you aesthete's taste to purer things. Kill them swiftly if you will, but do it! For now doubt, you are a killer Louis. Ah! 
He stands up. The girl pushes the lid off, hysterical. She looks at Louis. 
GIRL It's a coffin, a coffin! Get me out! 
LESTAT Of course it's a coffin. You're dead, love. 
Louis screams at Lestat 
LOUIS Lestat - finish this - 
LESTAT You finish her - if you feel so much - 
The girl grabs Louis and pleads. 
GIRL You won't let me die, will you? You'll save me? 
LESTAT But it's too late, love. Look at your wrist, you breast. 
He picks her up again. He turns to Louis laughing. 
LESTAT Unless I make her one of us... 
LOUIS NO!!! 
LESTAT THEN YOU KILL HER!!!!! 
The girl screams. Louis puts his hands to his ears. Then Lestat, in a fit of pique puts his teeth to her neck. She dies at last. 
A terrible silence descends. Lestat looks at Louis. 
LOUIS My God... to think you... are all I have to learn from... 
LESTAT In the old world, they called it the dark gift, Louis. And I gave it to you. 
Louis leaves without a word. 
EXT. DANK NEW ORLEANS BACK STREETS - NIGHT 
A rat scurried down a gutter, then another and another. Louis' hand grabs the rat. We see him from behind, walking down the street, gripping one, then another. 
LOUIS (V.O.) Am I damned? Am I from the devil? Is my very nature that of a devil? And all the while, as these dreaded questions caused me to neglect my thirst, my thirst grew hotter, my veins were threads of pain in my flesh, my temples throbbed. 
A smaller side street, in which every house is marked with an X. The street is crawling with rats, and Louis is following them. A man passes with a lantern. 
MAN Don't go that way Monsieur. It's the plague. Go back the way you came. 
Louis smiles bitterly at these words, repeating them to himself. 
LOUIS The way I came... 
He walks on, following the rats. 
LOUIS (V.O.) ... and finally, when I could stand it no longer, I stood in an empty desolate street and heard the sound of a child crying. 
A house, the door slightly open, marked with an X. The sound of a child crying inside. Louis walks towards it. 
INT. HOUSE - NIGHT 
A little girl, pulling at a figure in a rocking chair. 
CLAUDIA Mama, please wake up. Mama, I'm frightened, please wake up. 
As Louis enters, he sees the woman is dead. Her eyes are being eaten away by rats. 
Louis gasps in horror. Claudia turns. She is a radiant doll or angel as she stretches out her hand to Louis. 
CLAUDIA Monsieur, please help us. Papa's waiting for us at the ship. Please wake mama, Monsieur. 
She runs to him. Instinctively, he gathers her in his arms. He looks down pitying on her beautiful face. 
LOUIS (V.O.) And if I am damned, why do I fell such pity for her gaunt face? Why do I wish to warm her tiny arms? Comfort her beating heart? 
She snuggles into him, suddenly utterly secure. She tugs at his hair, brings his head down towards her. And we see Louis shiver, as his lips go to her neck. 
Her breathing becomes calm as she goes into the swoon. Gradually another sound replaces it. 
LESTAT'S LAUGHTER, GROWING LOUDER AND LOUDER. 
Suddenly Louis backs away, caught red-handed, the child in his arms. He sees Lestat slapping his knee and laughing in the doorway. 
Claudia sucks on the wound, reviving, making little noises like a person waking from sleep. 
Louis rises to his feet as Claudia clutches Lestat's arm, sucking the blood fiercely. Lestat moans. 
LESTAT Stop, that's enough. No more. 
He pulls her loose and she growls and stares at him with big clear astonished eyes. 
CLAUDIA I want more. 
LOUIS What have you done? 
Lestat puts her down on the bed and sits beside her, holding his wrist, obviously in pain. 
CLAUDIA More. 
LESTAT Yes, cherie, of course you want more. And I'll show you how to get it. You drink from morals, my beauty, but from me? Never again. 
Still suffering, Lestat pulls the bell-rope. 
CLOSE ON CLAUDIA 
Being transformed. Becoming white yet robust, bright- eyed yet crazed. She shakes her beautiful curls and the dust falls from them. They are shining in the candlelight. 
Louis cannot stop looking at her. He does not notices as - 
The MAID enters. 
MAID Ah, quelle Belle enfant! 
The maid comes near the bed, kneels in front of Claudia. Lestat lays his hand on the maid's throat and Claudia watches keenly. 
LESTAT Gently, cherie. They are so innocent. They must not be made to suffer. 
Claudia lunges for the throbbing vein in the neck, locking on to the flowing blood. 
The Maid is transfixed. 
Close on Louis, his anguish, his fascinated horror. 
LOUIS You are the devil! You are the instrument of Satan! 
LESTAT That's enough, cherie. Stop before the heart stops. 
He lets the dead maid onto the floor. Claudia looks at the corpse. 
CLAUDIA I want some more. 
LESTAT It's bet in the beginning, lest the death takes you down with it. yes, that's it. My child. My beloved child. 
Lestat and Claudia sit on the Louis XVI settee. Claudia is a vision, a doll made out of pearl. Animated, voice crisp. 
CLAUDIA Where is Mamma? 
The words echo in Louis' head, as he puts his hands to his ears. 
LESTAT Mamma's gone to Heaven, cherie, like that sweet lady over there. They all go to Heaven. And you did very well, cherie. Not a drop spilt. Very good! You're going to be our child now. 
Lestat takes out his comb and begins to comb her hair. 
LESTAT Your mama's left you with us. She wants you to be happy. 
LOUIS (whispers) You are the devil! You are the instrument of Satan! 
LESTAT Shhhh! Do you want to frighten our little daughter? 
CLAUDIA I'm not your daughter. 
LESTAT Yes you are, my dearest. You are mine and Louis' daughter. You see Louis was going to leave us. He was going to go away. But now he's not. He's going to stay and make you happy. 
Claudia runs over to him. She smiles at him. 
CLAUDIA Lou...eee... 
Louis is conflicted. He cannot leave her. He touches her cheeks, her hair. Same as his. Vampire skin and hair. He draws in his breath, shocked by her beauty, then he embraces her as a father might a daughter. He looks over her shoulder to Lestat. 
LOUIS You fiend. You monster. 
Lestat smiles 
LESTAT One happy family. 
INT. ROOM - SAN FRANCISCO 
Malloy is open mouthed. 
PIANO-TEACHER The thumb girl! Mind the thumb! 
Claudia glares at him, then returns to playing, improving rapidly. 
INT. DOLL-SHOP - NIGHT 
Piano music over. Mozart, now well played. 
Claudia staring at a glass case, inside of which are an array of eighteenth century dolls. An old DOLLMAKER looks down on her. 
DOLLMAKER They are expensive, my dear. Maybe too expensive for a young girl like you... 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Claudia walking along, clutching the doll. 
INT. DOLL-SHOP - NIGHT 
The dollmaker lying dead, two puncture marks in his throat, his dolls scattered all around him. 
EXT. UNDERTAKER'S - NIGHT 
Claudia and Louis looking through the window at a display of coffins. Claudia point at the smallest one. 
LOUIS (V.O.) She grew, yet stayed the same. She wanted a bed of her own, yet would climb back into mine. 
INT. CLAUDIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
The child's coffin on the floor. The lid lifts. Claudia emerges, yawning, wanders through the flat into - 
LOUIS' BEDROOM 
Where his coffin sits. She slides the lid off, and curls in beside him. 
INT. PARLOUR - NIGHT 
Claudia playing the piano, now with remarkable dexterity. The piano-teacher sits mute beside her. As she plays, he topples over and falls to the ground. We see the puncture-marks in his neck. Lestat, hearing the noise, comes in. 
LESTAT Claudia, Claudia! Didn't I tell you, never in the house! 
Claudia smiles to herself, keeps playing. 
INT. CLAUDIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
CANARIES sing in a cage, above a child's coffin. 
Claudia is writing at a secretaire. She is writing in a diary with a quill pen in an adult hand. She murmurs the date as she writes. 
CLAUDIA September 21st, one hour after sunset. The sky is still violet, the way Louis loves and as always Lestat was gone when we rose. 
She looks up and sees Louis in the doorway, watching her. 
LOUIS How did you learn to write, Claudia? 
CLAUDIA The way I learn everything. By watching you. 
She closes the diary. 
CLAUDIA But you never let me see you kill, Louis. 
LOUIS Lestat taught you all you need to know about that. 
CLAUDIA Infant death, he calls me. Sweet daughter death. You know what he calls you? Merciful death. 
LOUIS He jests. 
CLAUDIA Why does he call you that? 
LOUIS Hush, Claudia don't talk about such things. Show me your book. 
She opens it. Inside there is a beautiful pen and ink portrait of Louis. 
LOUIS Claudia! You did that? 
CLAUDIA Sit still. It's not finished - 
She begins to fill in the sketch. 
LOUIS (V.O.) Time can pass fast for mortals when they're happy. With us it was the same. 
EXT. RUE ROYALE - NIGHT (1800'S) 
Street lamps are oil at this period. Houses are now tall two-story Spanish style. Streets are flagstone. Passing carriages are black. 
LOUIS (V.O.) It was a very different life. And a new century was beginning. what had once been a small godforsaken French colony was growing into a great port, giving us an endless train of magnificent strangers... 
CLAUDIA Which of you did it? Which of you made me the way I am? 
LESTAT What you are? You would be something other than you are? 
CLAUDIA And if I cut my hair again? 
LESTAT It will grow back again! 
CLAUDIA But it wasn't always so! I had a mother once! And Louis - he had a wife! He was mortal the same as she! And so was I! 
LOUIS Claudia - 
She turns on Lestat. 
CLAUDIA You made us what we are, didn't you? 
LESTAT Stop her Louis! 
CLAUDIA DID YOU DO IT TO ME???? 
She runs at him with the scissors, scoring his face. The cut heals. She scores it again. It heals again. She stares at him in horror. 
CLAUDIA (whispering) How did you do it? 
LESTAT And why should I tell you? It's in my power. 
CLAUDIA Why yours alone? Tell me how it was done!!!! 
LESTAT Be glad I made you what you are! You'd be dead not if I hadn't. 
He storms out. Louis goes to Claudia and picks her up in his arms. 
LOUIS (tenderly) We're immortal. You've always known that. 
CLAUDIA Tell me why... you've got to tell me... 
Louis carries her outside, onto the porch. There is an old flower-seller going by. 
LOUIS You see the old woman? That will never happen to you. You'll never grow old. You will never die. 
CLAUDIA And it means something else too, doesn't it? I shall never, ever grow up. 
She clutches Louis desperately. 
CLAUDIA I hate him. But I cannot bear to lose you. You're the only companion I have, forever. You taught me everything I know. Please tell me Louis. Tell me how it came to be that I am this... thing... 
Louis strokes her beautiful face, her hair. 
LOUIS Come... I've something to show you... 
EXT. NEW ORLEANS STREETS - NIGHT 
Louis walking, holding Claudia as if he was about to lose her. 
LOUIS (V.O.) Though everything was changed, through the years had warped the contours of the streets, I found my way there, aware that I'd always known where it was and avoided it, not wanting to pass the doorway where I'd first heard Claudia cry. 
Louis back in the same street, outside the same house. He stands with Claudia at the window. There is a family inside, a picture of domestic tranquility. 
LOUIS I heard you crying. You were there in a room with your mother. You were hugging her for warmth, crying pitifully as you had been for days. Because your mother was dead... 
Claudia stares at him, suddenly very cold, very alert. 
LOUIS I opened the shutters... I came into the room... I felt pity for you. Pity, but something else. 
He can't go on. Claudia's eyes are remorseless. 
CLAUDIA You... fed on me? 
LOUIS And he found me with you. I ran, sickened at what I'd done. Then he cut his wrist and fed you from him. I tried to stop him, but you were a vampire then. And have been every night hereafter. 
CLAUDIA You both did it? 
LOUIS I took your life. He gave you another one. 
Claudia speaks through indrawn breath. 
CLAUDIA And here it is. And I hate you both. 
She runs. 
INT. ROOM SAN FRANCISCO 
Malloy and Louis. 
MALLOY But why did you tell her? 
LOUIS (bitterly) I can't. Go away from me. 
Claudia is shocked to her core. She steps back. Louis stares at the rippling waters. Gradually the movement of alligators stops. Then he hears a sound he hasn't heard in years. Soft, choking. He turns, sees Claudia sitting by a cypress tree, like a little girl for the first time in years. She is weeping copiously. 
LOUIS Claudia - You're crying - 
We see her face, tears of blood running down it. She is heartbroken, lost. 
CLAUDIA You never talked to me like that - in all these years. 
LOUIS And you never cried - 
CLAUDIA I can't bear it when you do - I would die rather than lose you Louis. I would die the way he died. 
Louis gathers her in his arms. 
LOUIS Hush, Claudia, hush now my dear - 
CLAUDIA Tell me you don't hate me Louis. I did it for you - 
Louis walks her towards the carriage. 
LOUIS I love you Claudia. Always. And we are free now, Claudia. No Lestat. Just the two of us, beginning the great adventure of our lives. 
He lifts her into the carriage and drives off, leaving the silent waters of the swamp. 
INT. FLAT - NIGHT 
Sturdy mulatto workmen lifting cases and trunks out of the apartment. All the furniture is covered in white sheets. Claudia dressed in a cap and hat, is playing the piano by the light of one remaining oil-lamp. 
Louis comes from her room with the cage of canaries. 
LOUIS The birds. We forgot about the birds. There's nothing for it but to let them go. 
He opens the cage, and the canaries fly around the room. 
There is a knocking on the door. Claudia falters. 
CLAUDIA What was that? 
LOUIS The workmen must have a trunk - don't stop, cherie - 
He goes downstairs. Claudia plays a moment, then stops, perturbed. She goes to the window. Then sees something out there that makes her face go white. She screams. 
CLAUDIA Louis!!! 
THE STAIRWAY 
Louis walking to the door. The knocking gets louder. 
THE PARLOUR 
Claudia runs for the stairs, after Louis. 
THE HALLWAY 
Louis reaches the door. The knocking gets louder. He opens the door as - 
CLAUDIA 
Reaches the stairs. She screams - 
CLAUDIA Don't Louis - 
But Louis has opened the door. Nothing there. He looks back at Claudia, puzzled, then at the door again when, swooping into his vision comes the nightmare image of - 
LESTAT 
In filthy swamp-soaked rags, robust again, but his flesh shriveled, covered in scars, his eyes riddled, bloodshot. he roars. 
LESTAT WHERE IS SHE? WHERE IS THAT ACCURSED CHILD? 
Louis throws his body against the door, slamming it on Lestat's reaching hand. The hand withdraws, as Lestat roars. Louis bolts the door. 
Louis runs up the stairs, sweeps Claudia in his arms, watching appalled as the door shudders with the force of Lestat's body. 
IN THE PARLOUR 
Louis runs through with Claudia in his arms. 
LOUIS It can't be - 
CLAUDIA It is! Take the back stairwell - 
Suddenly Lestat crashes through the casement window, scattering blood everywhere, reefing himself on the shattered glass. He tumbles to the floor and gets unsteadily to his feet. 
RUINED CASTLE AFTER CASTLE, LOOKING INTO THE SKIES... 
LOUIS The quest for these Old World vampires filled me with bitterness. We searched village after village, ruin after ruin and I was glad when always we found nothing. For what could the damned really have to say to the damned? 
INT. ROOM. SAN FRANCISCO 
Malloy and Louis. 
MALLOY You found nothing? 
LOUIS Peasant rumors, superstitions about garlic, crosses, stakes in the hear, all that - how do you say again? Bull shit. But one of our kind? Not a whisper. 
MALLOY No vampires in Transylvania? No Count Dracula? 
LOUIS Fictions, my friend. The vulgar fictions of a demented Irishman... So we repaired to Paris... 
EXT. BOULEVARD FACADE OF GRAND HOTEL AND PARIS OPERA 
Crowds and gaslight everywhere. Carriages, horses, OPERA coming from the opera house. 
LOUIS (V.O.) I think the very name of Paris brought a rush of pleasure to me that was extraordinary. I was a Creole, after all and Paris was the mother of New Orleans, a universe whole and entire unto herself... 
EXT. 18TH CENTURE PALACES ALONG THE SEINE - NIGHT 
The high walls of the Louvre, dark figures walking in pairs through the shadowy tulieries. 
EXT. STREET - SHOP WINDOW 
Claudia, in furtrimmed muff and bonnet, peers through the glass at a display of dolls. Each doll in there seems to resemble her, with blonde hair and blue eyes. She peers deep into the shop and sees - 
MADELEINE, a young woman bent over a workbench painting a doll's face, oblivious to being watched. 
INT. OPERA STAIRCASE 
Louis and Claudia hurrying hand in hand with a crowd of mortals towards the sound of an ORCHESTRA TURNING beyond. 
INT. NOTRE DAME 
Claudia and Louis standing in the deep shadows, looking at the branching arches. Louis is overcome with sadness, Claudia is fascinated. 
INT. GALLERY 
Louis and Claudia walk among a series of mythological nudes by Poussin. 
INT. SALON - NIGHT 
Claudia, surrounded by discarded dresses and outfits, being attended by couturiers. All the clothes are tiny, to fit her frame, but have an adult cut and shape. 
LOUIS We were alive again. We were in love and so euphoric was I that I yielded to her every desire... 
INT. SUMPRUOUS HOTEL SUITE 
Full of late 19th century furniture, lots of Empire style, Regency, gilt, velvet and brocade. 
CLOSE ON A HUGE BLACK EBONY CHEST 
Against a wall, solemn among all the light and glitter. 
CLAUDIA 
By a large gilt mirror, in her new clothes. She is covered with jewelry, fixing earrings to her ears. 
CLAUDIA Help me, mon chere... 
Louis walks over, helps her with the earrings. 
CLAUDIA How do I look? 
LOUIS Still my beautiful child. 
Claudia laughs. 
CLAUDIA A beautiful child! Is that what you still think I am? 
LOUIS Yes... 
He turns away. 
CLAUDIA Why do you turn away? Why don't you look. 
She twirls, looking at herself in the mirror, then stops, stares at herself. 
CLAUDIA You want me to be your daughter forever, don't you? 
LOUIS Yes. 
LOUIS Trickster. Buffoon! 
Santiago echoes the first word, but not the second. Louis has broken his composure. He turns his back on Santiago, only to come face to face with Santiago right in front of him. 
Again Louis turns this back to find Santiago facing him. 
Louis turns, glowers, refusing to look at him. 
LOUIS I've searched the world for an immortal and this is what I find? 
Slowly he looks up. Santiago draws close, breaking the mirror trick and suddenly slams Louis back against the wall. 
Louis is furious. He regains his balance, strikes out at Santiago and when Santiago vanishes, to reappear behind him, Louis slams back his elbow into his midriff. Santiago staggers, amazed and then rushes at Louis, throwing him down. 
Louis rolls back to his feet, then to his amazement sees two vampires, on in front, on behind. He looks both ways, then sees one has vanished. He stares, awestruck, at this new one: 
ARMAND He looks like an angel. 
ARMAND You are all right. 
He reaches into his waistcoat, takes an engraved invitation out of his pocket and thrusts it at Louis. 
Louis reads it aloud, as we see: 
"THEATRE DES VAMPIRES By Special Invitation Friday, 9 p.m." 
ARMAND Bring the petit beauty with you. No one will harm you. I won't allow it. Remember my name. Armand. 
Armand bows and vanishes. 
Louis listens to the silence. 
EXT BOULEVARD DES CAPUCHINES - THEATRE DES VAMPIRES - NIGHT 
Louis formally dressed with Claudia in rich attire on his arm. They pass people buying tickets for the theatre and go inside. 
LOUIS Remember what I've told you. They'll have different powers. They'll read your thoughts if you allow it. 
They draw close to: 
HUGE POSTERS 
Reading - 
"THEATRE DES VAMPIRES PRESENTS THE MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH By Edgar Allen Poe" 
The posters are illustrated with cliched images of vampires overcoming damsels in distress. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
CLAUDIA But this can't be real. This is nonsense. 
LOUIS Nonsense all right. But something tell me it's going to be the strangest nonsense we've ever seen. 
Warily, they show their invitations to the mortal ticket taker at the door. He glances away indifferently. 
INT. THEATRE BOX - NIGHT 
Claudia and Louis look at the crowd as the lights go down. 
CLAUDIA Mortals, mortals everywhere. And lots of drops to drink. 
LOUIS They are here. I know they are. Listen for something that doesn't make a sound. 
Stage: curtain rises. 
An elaborate painted set of an Italianate castle. Death standing before it, the traditional image of the Grim Reaper, complete with magnificent scythe. 
LOUIS (whispers) It's a vampire. It's the one I saw in Rue St Jacques. 
A version of the Poe story unfolds before them. All of the participants are vampires. All beautiful gleaming white, aged 20 or 30. 
LOUIS They use no paint. And the audience think it is paint. 
CLAUDIA How devilishly clever. 
A spotlight uncovers a mortal woman suddenly forced out upon the stage. 
CLAUDIA She's no vampire. 
LOUIS No. She's frightened. She doesn't know where she is. 
The audience laughs uneasily, then stops as the Mortal Woman comes into the footlights. She is too beautiful, too confused. Santiago, as Death, advances on her. She backs away, terrified, then sees the other vampires, in a phalanx, advancing from behind, in a half-circle. 
MORTAL WOMAN I don't want to die! 
Shakes her head. She is helpless. 
SANTIAGO We alone can give death meaning. Do you know what it means to be loved by death, to become our bride? 
Mortal Woman looks up on the verge of hysteria or fainting. But then her eyes mist over. She is being entranced. 
FROM HER POV 
We realize she is looking past Santiago at the divinely beautiful Armand, who has just stepped out of the wings. Armand has entranced her. He passes Santiago. Santiago stiffens, but yields the stage. 
ARMAND No pain. 
MORTAL WOMAN No pain? 
Armand takes her by the naked shoulders. 
ARMAND Your beauty is a gift to us. 
ON THE STAGE 
Armand gestures to the others who slowly, gracefully close in. 
ARMAND Who deserves such a gift? 
He pulls the drawstring from her skirt and it falls revealing her nakedness. But she is spellbound. 
MORTAL WOMAN No pain... 
Armand embraces her, drinks, her naked body stark against her black clothes, then he passes her to the other vampires one by one. 
CLOSE ON LOUIS 
Who battles desire and hunger with anger. 
LOUIS I've seen enough of this! I loathe it! 
CLAUDIA Be still! 
ON THE STAGE 
The naked Mortal Woman lies dead on the floor. The vampires seem to vanish one by one. As the curtain draws across, the Audience loudly applauds what they presume are theatrical tricks. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
The audience, milling towards the exits. They talk in vacuous terms about the beauty of the show, the symbolism of it, the daring of it as they leave. 
Gradually Louis and Claudia are left alone in the empty theatre. Louis seems anxious to leave. Claudia whispers in his ear. 
CLAUDIA Patience, Louis. Patience. 
He looks around the empty theatre, more eerie now than when the play was on. The red curtain shifts slightly in a hidden breeze, a candle sputters and dies in a box. Then the candle flares again, and we see Armand in the box, looking down on them. He stares with a dreamy expression, saying nothing. 
LOUIS We've been searching for you for a very long time... 
His voice echoes eerily. Armand gestures for them to follow him. 
INT. FOOT OF STAIRWAY 
Armand leading, Louis and Claudia following. It opens into a - 
HUGE UNDERGROUND BALLROOM 
Walls are painted with famous copies of Durer, Brueghel, Goya and Bosch depictions of death. Fine wooden coffins line the walls. Candles burn in sconces, casting alternate shadows and pools of light. Armand walks through, gesturing Louis and Claudia to follow him. 
As they walk through, vampire man and women appear out of the shadows like wraiths, startling them, drifting around them, stroking them, touching Claudia as if she were a doll. Shrieks of preternatural laughter. 
Armand gestures to the vampires to back off. 
All obey but ESTELLE. 
ESTELLE Such a darling. 
She menaces Claudia, her breasts enormous, her fangs bared. Armand throw her a look, and she is flung against the wall. 
Louis stares around. The vampires faces drift towards him and away, always disclosing the face of Armand, who seems some distance away, but strangely close, staring at Louis with a constantly calm, hypnotic gaze. Then a young mortal boy comes from the shadows with a candelabra, which he hands to Armand. 
Armand and the boy come towards them, leading them along the walls, his candelabra illuminating the ghastly murals, his face gleaming like an angel above the candleflame. 
LOUIS Monstrous. 
ARMAND Yes, and very beautiful. 
LOUIS Your lips, they didn't move. 
ARMAND They did, but too fast for you to see them. No magic, just grace and speed. 
Claudia appears suddenly to Louis' shoulder, interrupting. 
CLAUDIA Come, beloved. It's time we were on our way. I'm hungry and the city waits. 
She stares hard at Armand. Armand looks from her to Louis. 
ARMAND So soon to go? 
He seems genuinely regretful. But Claudia pulls Louis out. 
INT. DARKENED CORRIDORS AND THEATRE - NIGHT 
Louis and Claudia feel their way through darkened corridors, trying to find their way out. 
LOUIS (V.O.) The place was dark as we left, a darkness that confounded even Claudia. And as we blundered through it, again came the thought: I have wronged Lestat, I have hated him for the wrong reasons. 
Suddenly a light comes on. They see they are in the empty theatre. Santiago stands on the stage, under a candle. 
SANTIAGO How did you wrong him? 
Louis is stunned. 
LOUIS You read my thoughts? 
SANTIAGO You said a name - 
LOUIS A name I don't want to say again. 
SANTIAGO I seemed to recognize it... 
Other vampires appear behind him. 
SANTIAGO There is but one crime among us vampires here. 
He looks at Claudia. 
SANTIAGO You should know, who are so secretive about the vampire who made you. 
Claudia laughs. 
CLAUDIA Boredom! 
SANTIAGO It is the crime that means death to any vampire. To kill your own kind! 
CLAUDIA Aaaah! I was so afraid it was to be born like Venus out of the foam, as we were! Come Louis, let's go! 
EXT. HOTEL SAINT GABRIEL - NIGHT 
Claudia and Louis enter the Lobby. 
CLAUDIA I loathe them! I can't stand the sight of them! Stupid bourgeois Parisians, all dressed in black like some private club! I've searched for them the world over and I despise them! 
LOUIS What danger? 
CLAUDIA I can feel it from them! They want to know who made us, what became of him. They have their rules, their idiotic rules! 
They come to their room, enter. 
INT. HOTEL ROOMS - NIGHT 
Louis closes the door behind him. Claudia paces. 
LOUIS Do you think I would let them harm you? 
CLAUDIA No, you would not, Louis. Danger hold you to me. 
LOUIS Love holds you to me. And we are in danger, not you. 
CLAUDIA Love? 
She smiles at him. A strange, sad, adult smile. 
CLAUDIA You would leave me for Armand if he beckoned you. 
LOUIS Never. 
CLAUDIA He wants you as you want him. He's been waiting for you. He wants you for a companion. He bides his time that place. he finds them as dull and lifeless as we do. 
LOUIS That's not so. 
CLAUDIA Do you know what his soul said to me without saying a word? When he put me in that trance... 
LOUIS So you felt it too! 
CLAUDIA Let him go, he said. Let him go. 
ARMAND Like moths around the candle of the age. Decadent, useless. They can't reflect anything. But you do. You reflect its broken heart. 
Louis is speechless. 
ARMAND Are these not the answers you came for? 
LOUIS (softly) Yes... My God... 
ARMAND A vampire with a human soul. An immortal with a mortal's passion. You are beautiful, my friend. Lestat must have wept when he made you - 
LOUIS Lestat! You knew Lestat! 
ARMAND Yes I knew him. Knew him well enough not to mourn his passing. 
Armand stands. He takes Louis by the arm, leads him towards the back wall. 
ARMAND But you must go now. You must get her safely out of Paris. 
He opens a hidden door in the wall. 
ARMAND No-one else knows of this door. When you knock you will find me waiting... 
EXT. THEATRE DES VAMPIRES - NIGHT 
Louis, in the street outside, as the door closes behind him. 
LOUIS (V.O.) I felt a kind of peace at last. I had found the teacher which Lestat could never, I knew now, have been. I knew knowledge would never be withheld by Armand. It would pass through him as through a pane of glass. And I knew Claudia must leave me... 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT 
Louis enters. There is unfamiliar scent in the air, a doll sitting by the mirror. Louis looks in the mirror and sees... 
MADELEINE 
The doll-maker, resplendent in green taffeta, sitting like a Madonna with Claudia on her lap. Claudia's arms are wound round her neck. The contrast between mortal woman and immortal child is plain. 
CLAUDIA Madeleine... Louis is shy. 
Madeleine rises and comes towards Louis. She draws back the lace fringes round her throat, so he can see the two marks there. She says softly, dreamily. 
MADELEINE Drink. 
Louis turns away. Claudia speaks, icy, from the bed. 
CLAUDIA Do it Louis. Because I cannot do it. I haven't the strength. You saw to that when you made me. 
Louis turns to Madeleine. 
LOUIS You haven't the vaguest conception under God of what you ask! 
MADELEINE Au contraire, monsieur, I have. 
Louis pushes her away. Claudia screams. 
CLAUDIA You have found your new companion, Louis! You will make me mine! 
Louis grips Madeleine and shakes her. 
LOUIS How do we seem to you? Do you think us beautiful, magical, our white skin, our fierce eyes? Drink, you ask me! Have you any idea of the thing you will become? 
CLAUDIA Your evil is that you cannot be evil! And I will suffer for it no longer! 
LOUIS Don't make me, Claudia! I cannot do it! 
CLAUDIA Yet you could do it to me! Snatching me from my mother's hands like two monsters in a fairy-tale! Couldn't you have waited? Six more years and I would have had that shape! And now you weep! You haven't tears enough for what you've done to me. 
She points to Madeleine 
CLAUDIA You give her to me! Do this before you leave me! 
She begins to weep, sobbing like a child. 
CLAUDIA Oh God! I love you still, that's the torment of it. But you know I must leave you Louis... 
LOUIS Yes... 
CLAUDIA And who will care for me my love, my dark angel, when you are gone? 
Louis looks at Madeleine 
LOUIS You promise to care for her then? 
MADELEINE Yes... 
LOUIS And you know what you ask for? 
LESTAT 
Dressed beautifully, but horribly scarred now, from the fire as well as the earlier stabbing. Lestat is confused, ancient, teetering, reaching for Santiago's shoulder to steady himself. 
LESTAT Louis... 
SANTIAGO Is he the one? 
Lestat shakes his head. 
LESTAT No, the child. The child was the one... 
SANTIAGO All the murderers!!! 
LOUIS You are alive, Lestat! It can't be murder! Tell them how you treated us... 
Lestat reaches out to Louis. 
LESTAT No... You come back to me Louis... 
LOUIS Are you mad??? 
ESTELLE The sentence is death! To all of them!!! 
LESTAT Only the girl - it was the girl - 
The sound of something being dragged through the crowd. Horrible echoing, scraping - 
Lestat grips Santiago. 
LESTAT You promised me - I could take him back to New Orleans - Louis - there's something I must tell you - about that night - that night I met you - 
He stares around him, confused. The scraping gets louder. 
LOUIS You let her go, Lestat - you let her free - and I'll come back with you - 
Santiago grabs Louis by the neck. 
SANTIAGO Death for the others. For you eternity in a box - 
We see now what caused the scraping. A huge metal coffin being dragged through the vampires. Claudia screams. 
SANTIAGO Walled in a dungeon. Your only company will be your screams... Perhaps it will take centuries... 
The vampires grab Louis. They force him towards the coffin. Lestat struggles with them. 
LESTAT He's coming home with me - you promised - 
SANTIAGO (laughing) We promised nothing! 
Louis struggles fiercely as he is forced into the coffin. Claudia weeps. 
LOUIS They've fooled you, Lestat! You must reach Armand! Armand has the power! 
Louis, struggling in the coffin. Then the lid is forced down, huge locks closed over it. 
INT. COFFIN 
Louis, in the smallest imaginable space. Beating his forehead against the metal. 
EXT. COFFIN 
Claudia, throwing herself on the coffin, crying. She is dragged away. Vampire hands drag the coffin across the stone floor. 
INT. COFFIN 
Louis, forehead pouring with blood, being thrown this way and that. The coffin is lifted, upside down, Louis' head crashes off the floor. 
EXT. COFFIN 
Is thrust into a niche in the wall. Bricks being placed over, mortar trowelled on. 
INT. COFFIN 
Louis upside down. Sounds of bricks and mortar. Then terrifying, unearthly scream pierces the coffin, striking to his very soul. 
LOUIS Claudia!!! 
He loses consciousness. 
BLACKNESS 
INT. COFFIN 
Louis sleeps, upside down. Sound of bricks being broken, thrown aside. Then of locks breaking. 
Looking at the paling sky. He is in an alleyway, outside of Armand's cell. He has a huge keg with him. he finds the door unlocked. He enters. 
INT. CELL 
Empty. The hearth is cold. The old coffin is gone. Louis silently closes the door to the passage and blocks it with an immense bar. He goes in the other door. 
INT. THEATRE 
Louis hurls kerosene all over the stage, the curtain, the sets, the seats below. He grabs the scythe from the playlet. He walks out. Dribbling a trail of kerosene behind him. 
INT. STAIRS 
Louis walking rapidly down, leaving the trail of kerosene. He creeps quietly into the - 
BALLROOM 
Leaking kerosene from the cask. He splashes over the coffins that gleam in the dimness. 
Then he strikes a match and heaves it into the kerosene. Everything bursts into flame. The trail of kerosene roars into fire through the ballroom over the coffins and up the stairs. We hear EXPLOSIONS of fire from above. 
LOUIS 
Shudders all over, fighting the morning weakness. He readies the scythe, like the grim reaper. 
ESTELLE 
Rises from her burning coffin, screams and tries to run through the fire but Louis slashes her down with the scythe and she goes down screaming, her dress in flames. 
ESTELLE Stop him. It's morning. The sunlight. Stop him. 
Others rise, choking in the smoke. Screams from everywhere. They are burning. 
Louis backs up the stairs to the - 
DUNGEON 
He can see there a thin pale light under Armand's bolted door. Suddenly - 
SANTIAGO 
Comes at him from behind. Louis turns. Santiago rushes him in a blur. Louis swings the scythe, too fast to see what he himself is doing. Santiago's head streaming blood flies through the air. 
The body drops, flapping its arms. 
SCREAMS come from everywhere. 
Another vampire rushes burning towards Louis. He decapitates him in turn. Then he staggers into Armand's cell, and bars the door the connects it to the ballroom behind him. He staggers to the outer door. There is a thin strip of daylight, beneath the door, blinding him. He throws it open, and staggers into the daylight. 
EXT. THEATRE DES VAMPIRES - DAWN 
Louis staggers out of the burning theatre, into the thin daylight. Great gusts of smoke cover the street. He staggers through the daylight, weakening, about to fall, when through the clouds of smoke comes - 
A MAGNIFICENT HEARSE 
As in a dream, driven by Armand's human boy. The door of the hearse opens. Through the curtains enclosing the interior, we see Armand. He reaches a hand out to Louis and pulls him inside. 
The hearse vanishes through the smoke, leaving the spectacle of the burning theatre. 
EXT. THEATRE DES VAMPIRES - TWILIGHT 
The gutted Theatre and ballroom, the roof collapsed, exposed to the evening sky. The life of Paris goes on around it, oblivious. 
INT. LOUVRE - NIGHTS LATER 
It is already a museum by this time and Louis and Armand, fancily dressed and composed, walk through it. They stop by a Gericault - The Wreck of the Medusa. 
LOUIS You didn't even warm them, did you? 
ARMAND No. 
LOUIS And yet you knew what I would do. 
ARMAND I knew. I rescued you, didn't I? From the terrible dawn. 
LOUIS You were their leader. They trusted you. 
ARMAND You made me see their failings, Louis. You made me look at them with your eyes. 
He looks at Louis affectionately. 
ARMAND Your melancholy eyes... 
LOUIS What a pair we are. We deserve each other, don't we? 
ARMAND We are a pair, and that's what counts. 
LESTAT I didn't mean to let them do it... that Santiago, he tricked me... 
LOUIS That's all past, Lestat. 
LESTAT Yes. Past... she should never have been one of us... 
He turns and looks at Louis. Old, fearful, broken. 
LESTAT Still beautiful Louis. You always were the strong one. 
LOUIS Don't fear me, Lestat. I bring you no harm. 
LESTAT You've come back to me, Louis? You've come again to me? 
Louis shakes his head. A series of police sirens go by, piercing the night sky. A helicopter goes overhead. Red flashes illuminate his face. Lestat shivers, covers his ears. He's terrified. Louis touches him, calming him, until the lights pass over. 
LOUIS It's only a siren... 
LESTAT I can't bear it Louis! The machines out there, that fly and that roar! And such lights! They make the night brighter than the day! 
LOUIS And they frighten you? 
LESTAT You know I love the dark. But there's no dark anymore. 
LOUIS It's false light, Lestat. It can't harm you... 
LESTAT If you stayed with me Louis, I could venture out... little by little... become the old Lestat. 
Louis shivers. He releases him. 
LOUIS I have to go now Lestat... 
LESTAT You remember how I was, Louis.. the vampire Lestat... 
LOUIS Yes. I remember... 
Lestat shivers. 
LESTAT I tried to tell you Louis... that night in Paris... when I first came to you... no-one can refuse the dark gift, Louis... not even you. 
LOUIS I tried... 
LESTAT And the more you tried, the more I wanted you... a vampire with your beautiful, suffering human heart. And how you suffered... I need your forgiveness, Louis. 
LOUIS You have it... 
Louis walks slowly away from him. Lestat turns back to his candle, his magazine. 
LESTAT You'll come back, Louis... take me out... little by little... and maybe I'll be myself again... 
A bluebottle buzzes by him. His hand shoots out and grabs it, squeezes the blood. 
LOUIS (whispering) Yes, Lestat... 
ON LOUIS 
As he walks through the decayed house. His eyes are expressionless. 
LOUIS (V.O.) And my story ends there. But in fact it ended a long time ago, with Claudia's ashes in that theatre. My love died with her. I never really changed after that. What became of Lestat I have no idea. I go on, night after night. I feed on those who cross my path. But all my passion went with her yellow hair. I ma a spirit with preternatural flesh. Detached. unchangeable. Empty. 
INT. ROOM. SAN FRANCISCO - NIGHT (PRESENT) 
Malloy, staring at Louis. 
MALLOY No... it can't end like that... 
LOUIS But it has. There is no more to tell. 
MALLOY But you talk about passion, about longing, about things I'll never know in my life! It's still inside you, in every syllable you speak! And then you tell me it ends like that? Just empty? 
LOUIS It's over, I'm telling you... 
MALLOY You need a new passion, Louis, a new reason to feel... what a story you've told, you don't understand yourself. 
Louis looks at the cassettes on the table. 
LOUIS Do what you want with it. Learn what you can. Give the story to others. 
Malloy rises. 
MALLOY You have another chance, Louis. Take me! Give me your gift, your power... 
Louis is slowly horrified, then outraged and angry. 
LOUIS Is this what you want? You ask me for this after all I've told you? 
