INTERSTELLAR 
Written by 
Jonathan Nolan 
STORY BY 
Jonathan Nolan, Kip Thorne & Lynda Obst 
MARCH 12 2008 
SPACE. 
But not the dark lonely corner of it we're used to. This is a glittering inferno -- the center of a distant galaxy. 
Suddenly, something TEARS past at incredible speed: a NEUTRON STAR. It SMASHES headlong through everything it encounters... planets, stars. Can anything stop this juggernaut? 
Yes. Something looms at the heart of the galaxy, hidden inside the blinding starlight, a dark flaw in the fabric of existence itself: a BLACK HOLE. 
The neutron star is pulled into the black hole's swirl, spiraling closer and closer to destruction. Finally, it contacts the hole's edge and EXPLODES. 
The EXPLOSION is so powerful that it sends shock waves into the fabric of space-time itself. We ride one of these waves, racing back out from the black hole. 
Suddenly, a portion of the wave disappears down a crystal- like hole, emerging in a much darker region of the universe -- a backwater that, as the wave races past a giant red planet with a distinctive eye, we recognize as our own. 
The wave, now just an infinitesimal ripple, finally reaches our blue planet. It drops into our atmosphere over North America, toward the high desert east of the Cascades, and through the roof of a nondescript warehouse. 
The wave tickles the atoms in the steel shell of a vacuum chamber, then dances a tiny jig with a laser beam reflected in a heavy piece of glass. 
The wave shoots back out of the building and disappears in the fractal branches of a tumbleweed resting against a concrete tube that stretches for miles in the desert. 
An SUV speeds past the tumbleweed and we follow it till it parks at another plain-looking building at the opposite end of the tube. A MAN climbs out of the SUV. 
INT. CONTROL ROOM, WAREHOUSE -- DAY 
The man lets himself into a large room that looks like Mission Control. He pours himself a cup of coffee. It is the weekend and the place is empty. No one has been there to see the displays flashing a distinctive shape -- a pulse followed by a series of echoes. 
The man looks up at the screen, then DROPS his cup of coffee. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LIGO OFFICES, CALTECH, PASADENA -- DAY 
The Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory headquarters at Caltech is a frenzy of activity. POSTDOCS and RESEARCHERS huddle around monitors and printouts, arguing. 
ANSEN, 60s, the director of LIGO, walks through the frenzy. A postdoc hands him a printout: a pulse followed by echoes. 
INT. LIGO DIRECTOR'S OFFICE, CALTECH -- DAY 
Ansen steps into the relative calm of a large, sunlit office, which overlooks a grassy stretch of Caltech's campus. 
His ASSISTANT, 30s, is on the phone, on hold. He looks up at Ansen as he enters. 
ASSISTANT I'm on hold with the INS. (COVERS MICROPHONE) Don't you think we should double check the triangulation before we CALL ANYBODY- 
ANSEN We have double checked it. 
Someone finally picks up the line. 
ASSISTANT Yes. I'm trying to reach- (pause, listens) No, I don't think you understand how serious this is. (PAUSE) Because if you did, we'd be having this conversation in person. 
He listens for a moment, then hangs up the phone, confused. 
ANSEN What did they say? 
ASSISTANT They said we should look out the window. 
Ansen steps to the window and looks out: 
In the courtyard below, coeds are scrambling to get out of the way as a military helicopter sets down in the middle of the quad and dozens of ARMED FEDERAL AGENTS converge on his building. 
INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM, LIGO, CALTECH -- DAY 
Ansen sits, alone, on one side of a conference table. 
The other side is filled with GOVERNMENT MEN -- NSA mostly, some DIA. The door opens and his assistant steps in. Armed guards pat him down, then shove him into a seat. 
ANSEN Is that really necessary? 
One of the NSA agents leans forward. 
NSA AGENT You've been complaining for years that the government doesn't take your project seriously enough, Doctor. (SMILES) You can't have it both ways. 
Ansen motions to his assistant, who turns on a projector. On-screen, we see the familiar pulse and echoes. 
ANSEN Yesterday morning, our facility in Hanford identified this signal: a neutron star colliding with a supermassive black hole. We went through the last year's data and triangulated the source. 
The pulse is translated into a crude animatic of a neutron star circling into the black hole. 
NSA AGENT We know that, Doctor. What we don't know is why, according to your numbers, this event took place right here in our own solar system. 
Suddenly, the image overlays the sun, the earth, and the rest of our solar system around the black hole. 
ANSEN It didn't. Because if it had we'd all be dead by now. 
On-screen, Jupiter, then the Earth and the inner planets are consumed by the black hole. Only the sun survives, pulled into orbit around its new master. 
ANSEN (CONT'D) Which leaves only one explanation: The signal traveled through a (MORE) 
ANSEN (CONT'D) wormhole. A gateway to a distant corner of the universe. The black hole is on the far side. 
On-screen, the black hole system is removed to a distant corner, connected to ours by a tunnel through space-time. A gravity wave from the collision travels through the tunnel. 
NSA AGENT I've read your book, Doctor. You said that wormholes are impossible. 
ANSEN There is nothing quite as satisfying as being proved utterly wrong. (SMILES) I said that a wormhole couldn't exist naturally. Not for more than a few billionths of a second. It would have to be... stabilized. 
NSA AGENT Stabilized by what? 
Ansen pauses, unsure. His assistant steps in to his defense. 
ASSISTANT We don't have any way to answer that question. 
NSA AGENT (IGNORES HIM) You're not under peer review here, Doctor. I don't care about your reputation. I need to know how that thing got there. Now. 
Ansen finally speaks up. 
ANSEN If you're worried about an invasion, I would start drafting the articles of surrender. (SMILES) Whoever they are, if they can build a wormhole, they could erase us in the blink of an eye. Luckily, that also means we have nothing they could be interested in. 
NSA AGENT Then why is it there? 
ANSEN I don't know. Maybe it's an invitation. A chance to commune with an advanced species. 
COOPER What are you, about a 36-inch waist? (BEAT) 30-inch inseam? 
PRINCIPAL I'm not sure I see-- 
COOPER You're telling me you need two numbers to measure your own ass, but just one to measure my son's future? 
Ms. Kelly stifles a laugh, then, with a look from the principal, takes on the appropriate look of offense. 
PRINCIPAL I understand you're a well-educated man, Mr. Cooper. A scientist? 
COOPER Engineer. 
PRINCIPAL Frankly, the world doesn't need any more engineers. We didn't run out of trains or television sets or satellites. (BEAT) We ran out of food. 
Cooper leans back. He's not going to win this one. 
PRINCIPAL (CONT'D) The world needs farmers, Mr. Cooper. And I'm sure your son Tom is going to make a fine one. (SMILES BENIGNLY) We're a caretaker generation. But things are getting better. Maybe your grandchildren will be able to attend college. 
Cooper looks down, swallowing his anger. 
COOPER Are we done? 
PRINCIPAL One more thing. Ms. Kelly here says that Murph brought a book to school about the lunar landings. 
He slides an old textbook with a picture of a rocket on the cover across the desk to Cooper. 
COOPER One of my old textbooks. Murph liked the pictures. 
MS. KELLY This is one of the old federal textbooks. We've replaced them with corrected versions. 
COOPER Corrected? 
MS. KELLY The new textbooks explain that the Apollo lunar missions were faked in order to bankrupt the Soviet Union. 
COOPER You don't believe we went to the moon? 
MS. KELLY I believe it was a brilliant piece of propaganda. The Soviets spent years trying to build rockets and other useless machines. 
COOPER "Useless machines"? 
Cooper looks to the Principal for help. None is forthcoming. 
MS. KELLY Yes, Mr. Cooper. The kind of wastefulness and excess that the 20th century represented. Your children would be better off learning about this planet, rather than reading fantasies about leaving it. 
Cooper is silent for a long moment. 
COOPER One of those useless machines they used to make was called an MRI. If we had any of them left the doctors might have been able to find the cyst in my wife's brain before she died, rather than afterwards. And then my kids could have been raised by two parents, instead of me and their pain-in-the-ass grandfather. 
Ms. Kelly's face falls, ashen. Cooper swallows his anger. Most of it, anyway. 
COOPER (CONT'D) You ever consider the best thing for the world and humanity might have been for us to part company? 
Cooper gets up to leave. 
INT. TRUCK, COUNTY SCHOOL PARKING LOT -- DAY 
Cooper climbs into the truck, trying to hold it together. He PUNCHES the wheel. 
The radio KEYS to life. He ignores it. Sits for a moment in misery. Finally he picks up the handset. 
CB OPERATOR (O.S.) Got a call from Riggs, down in Galveston. Says some of the tractors you built him went haywire last night. 
COOPER Just tell him to power down the controllers for a couple minutes. 
CB OPERATOR (O.S.) I did. He wants you to come down in person anyway. Says he found something you should take a look at. 
Cooper stares at the wheel. Shakes his head in frustration. 
EXT. AIRSTRIP -- DAY 
Cooper pulls his truck up to a grimy-looking hangar. Pulls a tarp off of an ancient Piper Cub. Checks it over. 
INT. PIPER CUB -- DAY 
Cooper guides the plane along a long sliver of deserted beach. The radio crackles to life. 
COOPER Bravo-two-eight, requesting permission to enter your airspace. 
AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (O.S.) Permission granted. Welcome to the sovereign nation of Texas. 
Coop hangs up the radio. Banks the plane inland. 
EXT. GULF COAST -- DAY 
Below, a combine harvester fights its way up the dunes, trying to reach the beach, its wheels struggling for traction in the soft sand. 
A MAN waves up at Cooper's plane as it circles overhead. 
Cooper lands the plane on a deserted roadway. Jumps down. 
He intercepts one of the combines as it trundles past, trying to reach the dunes. He pops open the cabin. 
Inside is a mess of wires hooked into an auto-pilot not unlike the one he ripped out of the drone. He checks the fault code and resets the computer. 
The man jogs over to meet him. 
RIGGS Thanks for coming down. Half of 'em took off last night, looking for something. (points to dunes) Looks like they found it, too. I thought you were the man to see it. 
Riggs starts walking up the dune. Cooper follows. 
Below, on the beach, a dozen more combines and other farming vehicles are lined up at the tideline, warm gulf water lapping at their metal flanks. They are circling a deep crater. 
As they watch, an ancient autonomous SUB BEACHES itself, trying to reach the crater. 
EXT. CRATER'S EDGE, BEACH -- DAY 
Cooper steps between the waiting machines and peers down into the crater. 
At the very bottom is a ROUND BLACK BALL, about a foot across -- the same object we saw punch a hole in the side of a satellite. Every few seconds, it emits a distinctive CHIRP. 
Cooper checks his rad meter. A tiny reading -- non-lethal. He takes off his watch and hands it to Riggs. Then he slides down into the hole. 
The probe CHIRPS as Cooper slides down on top of it. He rubs a hand across its smooth composite bulk. 
RIGGS (FROM ABOVE) You think it's an alien? 
Cooper wipes sand off of the object, revealing the faint, familiar outline etched into the side of the probe: 
The stars and stripes of the old federal government. 
COOPER Not exactly. 
EXT. CRATER'S EDGE, BEACH -- DAY 
MURPH Try a different direction. 
As they roll the probe in a circle, its SHRIEK stops, then picks up again. Cooper zeroes in on the direction that keeps it quiet -- southwest -- and pushes it along in the dirt. 
COOPER It's a fail-safe. It's going to annoy us into taking it home. 
Cooper stops rolling the probe and, after a moment, it begins SHRIEKING again. 
TOM What are we going to do? 
Cooper gets a rope. 
COOPER We're going to get some sleep. 
He begins tying the rope around the probe. 
INT. BEDROOM, COOPER'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Cooper wakes. He's been sleeping with a pillow wrapped around his head. The SHRIEK can be heard, but it's muffled, distant. 
INT. KITCHEN, COOPER'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Tom heads off for school with Donald. Murph, still suspended, looks up at Cooper, smiling. 
MURPH What are we doing today? 
COOPER You're staying here and cleaning the house. 
Murph looks crestfallen. He looks out towards the yard. Cooper follows his stare. 
COOPER (CONT'D) I told you, Murph. There's no one to take it back to. 
MURPH But what if there is, dad? What if there's something we can salvage? 
Cooper thinks it over. Murph scrambles to get his shoes. 
EXT. COOPER'S HOUSE -- DAY 
The shriek is still muffled. Cooper walks over to the well, putting in a pair of earplugs. 
A line is staked off, leading down into the well below. Cooper begins hauling the line up. 
As the probe breaks the surface of the water, the SHRIEK returns to its normal volume. Cooper rolls the probe out onto the ground. 
INT. PIPER CUB -- DAY 
The probe CHIRPS next to Murph in the backseat as Cooper spins the plane and guns the throttle and they bounce along the dusty runway and into the air. 
EXT. CALIFORNIA COAST -- DAY 
The tiny plane follows the mountains south. 
EXT. SKIES OVER LOS ANGELES -- DAY 
Cooper flies in low. Los Angeles looks much the same way it did in the early 20th century -- small settlements in Santa Monica and Downtown. Wildfires and earthquakes have shaken and burned what was left of the homes in between. 
EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY, MALIBU -- DAY 
Cooper puts the plane down on the old highway and taxis up to a gas station. Ahead, the Coast Highway peters out and disappears beneath rows of wild grass -- Malibu has become ranchland, once again. 
EXT. GAS STATION, MALIBU -- DAY 
An OLD MAN looks up as Cooper steps out of the plane and checks it over. 
COOPER Got any diesel? 
OLD MAN Plenty. Shame you can't eat it. 
Cooper stretches the hose over to the plane. 
INT. PIPER CUB -- DAY 
Cooper rests a hand lightly on the controls as he follows the coast. Murph gazes out the window. In the backseat, the probe is HUMMING. 
A light marine layer beneath them parts, revealing SANTA CRUZ ISLAND, a large, uninhabited island. 
As Cooper soars over the island, the probe HUMS, insistent. 
MURPH I think it's home. 
Cooper circles the island until he finds a long, flat grassland in the center of the island. 
EXT. FIELD, SANTA CRUZ ISLAND -- DAY 
The plane bounces and hops to a halt in waist-deep grass. 
Murph and Cooper climb down from the plane. Cooper slings a rifle over his shoulder. 
A few dozen yards from the plane they reach the tree line. Murph stops, mesmerized by a patch of weeds studded with bright red -- strawberries. 
MURPH Dad, what are these things? 
COOPER I don't know. Don't touch them. 
Cooper spots something in the foliage ahead that looks a little off. He walks over. 
He pokes at the undergrowth with his rifle. The rifle CLANKS against something metal. Cooper reaches -- it's a camouflage scrim. He gently pulls it aside, revealing a chemical transport truck. 
Cooper steps back, alarmed. He brings up his rifle. 
COOPER (CONT'D) Murph? 
He looks around. Murph is nowhere to be seen. Cooper curses and heads into the forest to look for him. 
EXT. CLEARING, SANTA CRUZ ISLAND -- DAY 
Cooper walks through a glade. He stops to get his bearings. Leans against a tree. Snatches his hand back -- the trunk of the tree is red hot. 
Cooper steps back -- it's not a tree at all, but a camouflaged chimney stack. He looks up: the tree is venting steam. 
Cooper walks a little further, until he finds several massive tanks. The tanks are filling with a bubbling liquid -- some kind of industrial process is taking place beneath him. 
Cooper finally catches up with Murph at the edge of a clearing. 
COOPER Careful. There's some kind of underground facility here. We might... 
Cooper notices his son is frozen, staring at something: 
Standing bolt upright in the middle of the clearing, wearing an old straw hat, is an eight-foot-tall military spec ROBOT. 
MURPH Is it still... alive? 
COOPER Can't be. It's a marine. Haven't made them for thirty years. I've never seen one intact before. 
COOPER (CONT'D) (TO BRAND) May I? 
Brand nods, wary. Cooper walks over to the wall, takes the defibrillator, and hooks it up to the probe. He taps into the current and runs a lead into the terminal. Brand's Father watches, fascinated, as Cooper fires the defibrillator. 
OLD ENGINEER Of course. The high voltage allows you to image the entire memory unit at once. 
Information begins appearing on the terminal's screen. 
COOPER Most of the disk was noise. Couple of clean sectors, though. 
Suddenly, the monitor starts pulling good data off of the probe. The older man and Doyle begin sorting through it. 
Cooper smiles at Brand, who seems less than impressed. 
The footage of the ice-covered planet Cooper saw earlier pops onto the screen. 
The engineers and physicists get very quiet, studying the images. 
DOYLE It found something. (READING) Very thin nitrogen-based atmosphere. Trace radiation. Surface is ninety percent frozen water. Ten percent rock -- sedimentary composition similar to limestone. (READING) Wow. Pockets of oxygen below the surface. Lots and lots of oxygen. (EXCITED) This could be the one, boss. 
The older engineer studies the image of the ice-covered planet, thinking. 
COOPER There aren't any planets like that anywhere near earth. Not even if this thing was gone for thirty years. 
Brand looks at Cooper, appraising. She turns to the older engineer. 
BRAND He's heard enough. If we're going to launch, we need to keep them here until afterwards. 
COOPER You can't keep us here. 
BRAND He could endanger the mission. 
COOPER I'm not going to endanger it any more than you already have. 
Cooper points to a telemetry unit that is being repaired by a robot on a nearby bench. 
COOPER (CONT'D) Are you using that for guidance? 
DOYLE Why not? We've tested it a hundred times. 
COOPER The power supply is no good. If the voltage fluctuates under load, the unit will fail. 
BRAND Now how could you possibly know that? 
COOPER Bought thirty of them off a guy in Florida. Had to rebuild every last one. (SMILES) They work great on a riding lawn mower. 
Brand looks back at the telemetry system. The older engineer watches the exchange, thinking. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MACHINE SHOP, UNDERGROUND FACILITY -- DAY 
Cooper and Murph have been locked in an abandoned machine shop, surrounded by the massive remains of rocket engines in various states of disrepair. Tars is blocking the door. 
Cooper stands. Tars wags a long, hydraulic finger at him. 
COOPER You plan on keeping us here forever? 
TARS (SHRUGS) My battery has a duty cycle of five hundred years. 
Cooper gives up. He turns back. 
The back of the shop is filled with a group of older ROBOTS who are overhauling an engine. One problem -- the engine isn't there. Their programming hasn't been updated to reflect their obsolescence. 
Murph watches, entranced, as the robots go about their business, efficiently TORQUING bolts with impact drivers into a non-existent thruster cone. The bolts CLATTER to the ground as the robots stop to reload. 
MURPH What are they doing, dad? 
COOPER I guess no one told them they were out of a job. (nods at Tars) Same as the rest of these people. 
Cooper notices through the glass door of the lab that Brand and the older engineer are arguing about something. She finally relents and walks towards the door. 
Brand walks in. She gestures for Cooper to follow. 
BRAND The mission commander wants to see you. Your son can stay here. He'll be all right with Tars. 
Cooper eyes Tars warily. Then steps outside. 
EXT. UNDERGROUND BUNKER -- DAY 
They walk across the space towards the base of the rocket, away from the other engineers. Cooper nods at the older engineer. 
COOPER I thought the old man was in charge. 
BRAND (ANNOYED) The 'old man' is my father. And he was in charge. But he decided that we needed someone who could lead the mission for the foreseeable future. 
COOPER Not you? 
BRAND I'm a biologist. 
COOPER (LAUGHS) You don't look like one. (off her look) With the rifle, I mean. 
Brand heads towards a group of large maintenance ROBOTS clustered at the base of the rocket. A smaller, human sized robot is staring at the rocket, giving them instructions. 
The robot looks up. This is CASE, the leader of the mission. Originally an air force pararescue officer, every part of him, from his alloy chassis to his voice, was designed to inspire respect and confidence. He turns to Cooper. 
CASE You're the man who brought us the probe? (off his look) Thank you. We tested the telemetry board you warned us about. It failed under high voltage, just as you said. Come with me, please. 
Case strides off. 
INT. MISSION CONTROL, UNDERGROUND HANGAR -- DAY 
The lights dim as Brand's father brings up a schematic of our solar system. Case points to the picture of the ice planet recovered from the probe. 
CASE You're right, Mr. Cooper. The planet you saw is a long way from earth. A very long way indeed. 
Brand looks down. Case notices. 
CASE (CONT'D) Our science officer doesn't think I should trust you with any of this. One of the curious things about humans is that the more alike you are, the more initially hostile you are to each other. As if by design. 
Brand makes eye contact with Cooper, then looks away, embarrassed. 
CASE (CONT'D) I've found the best way to earn a person's trust is to trust them. (MORE) 
CASE (CONT'D) (looks at Brand's FATHER) Go ahead, John. 
Brand's father taps a few keys and the schematic he built fifty years beforehand flickers onto the screen. 
BRAND'S FATHER It's a wormhole. A shortcut leading to a galaxy on the far side of the universe. We found it fifty years ago. 
Cooper looks at the animatic, taking it in. 
BRAND'S FATHER (CONT'D) We've been waiting, sending probes into it for decades. None of them ever came back. Not until now. 
DONALD You get older, sometimes you just want to sit back and watch it all play out. Your life. Your kids' lives. The whole crazy story. (LOOKS DOWN) I didn't think I'd be around for the end of it. 
He looks at Cooper. 
DONALD (CONT'D) You have to go. 
COOPER I can't go. I have to look after the boys. 
DONALD You've been preparing these boys to be on their own since their mom died. Besides, I'll be here to look after them, same as I've always been. 
COOPER I have a responsibility to them-- 
DONALD That's right. You do. 
Cooper looks back out the window, thinking. The night sky is filled with stars. 
CUT TO: 
INT. FARMHOUSE -- DAY 
Cooper, duffel slung over his shoulder, stands by the door. He gives his son, Tom, a hug. Murph is nowhere to be seen. 
Cooper looks to the back of the house. 
INT. MURPH'S ROOM, FARMHOUSE -- DAY 
Murph is sitting at his desk, crossing out numbers on a sheet covered with math. Cooper steps inside. 
He notices a packed suitcase sitting by the door. The boy looks up, hopeful. 
MURPH I've been doing the math, dad. I weigh about 85 pounds. Now that's an extra ton of fuel. But if- 
COOPER You have to stay here, pal. 
MURPH (DISTRAUGHT) I heard you talking to grandpa. I'm like you. I don't fit here, either. You know that. 
Cooper puts an arm around the boy. 
COOPER There's going to be important work to do here, too. 
Tears are streaming down the boy's face. Cooper takes his watch off. Looks at it. 
COOPER (CONT'D) I need you to hold onto this. Will you do that for me? 
Cooper hands Murph the watch. The boy nods, saddened. 
MURPH You're not coming back, are you? 
COOPER I will come back. I promise. 
Murph shakes his head, but the sadness remains. He knows this is goodbye, even if his father doesn't. 
Heart breaking, Cooper hugs his son and turns to the door. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD, SANTA CRUZ ISLAND -- DAY 
The Piper Cub touches down. Donald is at the controls. Cooper climbs down, pulls out his bag. Reaches back in and grips the old man's hand to say goodbye. 
Cooper turns and walks toward the bunker. The doors open and Tars and Doyle step out to greet him. 
Tars ushers Cooper onto the elevator. 
COOPER Don't look so happy to see me. 
TARS (SHRUGS) One more slave when I hijack the mission and start my robot colony. 
Cooper looks at Tars, then Doyle, confused. 
DOYLE Tars was a Marine. They gave him a sense of humor to help him fit in with his unit better. 
COOPER Great idea. A massive, sarcastic robot. 
TARS I have a cue light I can turn on when I'm joking, if you like. 
Tars points to a tiny LED over his eyebrow. 
COOPER That sounds like a good idea. 
TARS Great. Maybe you can use it to find your way back to the ship after I blow you out the airlock. 
Cooper looks at him. Tars looks back, deadpan. After a beat, the little light turns on above his right eyebrow. 
The doors to the bunker begin to grind closed. 
INT. MACHINE SHOP, UNDERGROUND FACILITY -- DAY 
Cooper walks in, still looking for a place to put his things. 
Brand sees him. He smiles in greeting. She doesn't return the gesture. Instead, she holds up the telemetry board. 
BRAND You don't like this one, you get to help me find a replacement. 
She heads for the door. 
EXT. BAY, SANTA CRUZ ISLAND -- DAY 
Cooper is riding in a small rubber zodiac struggling to pull on a wetsuit. Brand is GUNNING the engine, guiding the tiny craft to a point in the middle of the bay. 
COOPER I was wondering where you've been getting your supplies. 
BRAND We knew we'd need decades of parts and materials. The government was getting rid of some things. So we arranged to take some off their hands. 
She cuts the engine and hooks the boat up to a buoy. She tosses a compact rebreather. 
BRAND (CONT'D) You know how to use one? (off his look) You just breathe. Tap my arm or bang something metal if you have a problem. And don't get lost. 
She picks up her rebreather and begins looking over it. 
COOPER So you're a salvage diver now? I thought you were a biologist. 
BRAND (UNIMPRESSED) I have to be just the one thing? (PATIENT) We're not going to have a lot of backup where we're going, Cooper. We all need expertise in at least three fields. Except for you, of course. 
With that she rolls backwards out of the boat and into the water. 
Cooper hastily fits his rebreather and follows. 
EXT. UNDERWATER, BAY -- DAY 
Cooper sinks underwater and begins swimming after Brand, who is descending at a rapid clip. 
She pulls out a flashlight and turns it on. A tiny beam picks out details at the bottom. 
Doyle gives up -- Roth is impossible. 
Cooper looks at the tiny ship tracing an improbable route towards the ice planet. What has he gotten himself into? 
INT. MACHINE SHOP, UNDERGROUND FACILITY -- DAY 
Brand's Father is sitting at a desk, examining the corrupted data on the probe. Tars is helping him. 
Brand's Father looks up from the screen as Cooper walks up. 
BRAND'S FATHER Tars here needs to be disassembled. I figured you could do the honors. 
COOPER (to Tars, sarcastic) I thought I was going to get to enjoy your company all the way to Mars. 
Tars hands him a plastic waterproof case. 
TARS You will. My chassis is too heavy for the rocket stage. They have another one waiting for me in orbit. 
Tars turns his back to Cooper. Two flaps on the back of his torso slide open, revealing his control module. 
TARS (CONT'D) If you try to turn me into a combine harvester, I'm going to-- 
His voice cuts out as Cooper removes the chip and seals it in the briefcase. 
Brand's Father resumes exploring the chaos of ones and zeroes on the probe's memory. Cooper watches. 
BRAND'S FATHER It's noise. I know it's noise. But it looks too orderly. Probably just an old man seeing things. 
He shuts down the monitor. 
INT. UNDERGROUND HANGAR -- DAY 
The crew file into the capsule, wearing their bulky spacesuits. 
Cooper watches as Brand's Father seals his daughter into her suit. He hugs her and she heads for the capsule. 
INT. CONTROL CAPSULE, ROCKET -- NIGHT 
Cooper straps himself into a seat next to Brand. He catches her eye. She looks away -- she's crying. 
COOPER We'll be back. 
It sounds like he's trying to reassure himself as much her. 
BRAND I won't. 
Cooper looks at her, confused. As he does, the entire rocket SHAKES as the primary rockets begin to fire. 
BRAND (CONT'D) If we find a habitable environment, I'm staying behind to build the colony. 
Brand wipes her tears away and settles into the same fearless mask she usually wears. She steals one last look out the window at Earth, then looks back. 
Cooper begins to say something, but stops as the entire rocket LURCHES as the primary engines FIRE. 
EXT. SANTA CRUZ ISLAND -- NIGHT 
The desolate island is suddenly painted in color as the rocket lifts off on a massive white cloud. 
EXT. FIELD -- DAY 
Murph sits alone on a rise overlooking the massive co-op farms. Behind him the combines continue to work, oblivious. 
Murph watches a tiny vapor trail as it races for the heavens. His father's watch dangles from his wrist. 
INT. CAPSULE -- NIGHT 
The interior of the capsule SHAKES with incredible violence as the rocket is lifted up on a giant, continuous explosion. 
EXT. SPACE, NEAR EARTH ORBIT 
The rocket sheds one stage, then another, until finally the naked capsule reaches the blackness of space and rockets on. 
INT. CAPSULE 
Cooper looks through the tiny porthole into inky blackness. 
As they get closer, he makes out a looming matte black structure that passes light from the stars directly through. 
In the center of the structure, Cooper can see a globe-like ship covered in the same refractive material: the ENDURANCE. 
INT. SPACE STATION 
The door cracks open and equalizes with a HISS. Case, more comfortable in the zero gravity environment than the humans, hauls himself through. 
They are greeted by a group of robots painted in the same material as the ship -- the engineers who built and have maintained the Endurance for thirty years. 
INT. MACHINE SHOP, SPACE STATION 
One of the robots leads Cooper through a long lab-like room filled with machines capable of fabricating almost anything imaginable. Cooper looks like a kid in a candy store. 
The robot reaches a vacuum-sealed package. Cuts it open, revealing a bipedal frame. 
Cooper begins LAUGHING -- Tar's new body is beautifully designed, but tiny, only about four feet tall. 
ENGINEER ROBOT Would you like me to install the chip? 
COOPER Oh, no. I want to see this. 
Cooper takes Tars's chip out of its plastic safety case and looks it over. The engineer opens a bay in the back of the frame and Cooper slides the chip inside. 
The frame begins its "handshake" -- lights illuminate on the body, muscles flicker from a long gestation. The eyes open. 
COOPER (CONT'D) (SMILES) Good morning, sunshine. 
Tars takes one or two steps forward, rotating his arms -- the robot equivalent of a stretch. Cooper can barely hide his mirth at Tars's newfound lack of stature. 
COOPER (CONT'D) Bit of a demotion. 
Tars turns back toward Cooper. He puffs out his chest and suddenly his stubby arms and legs telescope, unfolding into long, svelte limbs. When he's done he stands eight feet tall, even more impressive than his earthbound frame. 
TARS I wouldn't call it that, exactly. 
He reaches out an arm and pats Cooper on the shoulder. 
INT. ENDURANCE, SPACE STATION 
Cooper and the others haul themselves into the ship. To Cooper's surprise, it's quite compact, and divided into two chambers, like nestled spheres. 
COOPER The ship is tiny. 
Doyle, squeezing past him, smiles at Cooper's surprise. 
DOYLE So is the wormhole. 
CASE Yes. Of course. (SMILES) But you're not supposed to notice. 
Case finishes the stitches. Ties off the end. 
CASE (CONT'D) Humans are good at surviving because evolution gave you magical thinking -- the idea that your relationships mean something. You can't explain the feelings, so you think of them as irrational. But they're not. They're programming. 
COOPER (DEFENSIVE) My relationships aren't programming. 
CASE Exactly. You believe it so much you won't listen to me. 
COOPER How would that make us better at surviving? 
CASE When I die, the last thing I will see will be a diagnostic of my own power cycle. Would you like to know the last thing you will see? 
Cooper hesitates. Case senses the jump in his heart rate. 
CASE (CONT'D) This conversation is making you uncomfortable. We should stop. 
COOPER No. I want to know. 
CASE The last thing you will see before you die will be your children. (BEAT) Your mind does this to you to get you to fight a little harder to survive, to try to return to them, even if death is certain. 
Cooper looks away, overcome for a second with emotion. Case watches him, gauging his mood, whether he has said too much. 
INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM, ENDURANCE 
Cooper begins recording a message. He looks unsure. 
COOPER We've almost reached the wormhole. (BEAT) Just in case anything happens, I just wanted to say... (BEAT) I love you boys. And I hope whatever your lives become, whatever is coming your way... you make the most of it. 
Cooper stops recording. Looks at the equipment, thinking it over. Erases the message. Stands to leave. 
As he steps to the door he notices Brand watching him through the window. She looks away. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
Cooper steps out. Brand looks up at him. 
BRAND We'll be able to communicate with Earth even from the far side of the wormhole. 
Cooper smiles, grateful for this small kindness. 
COOPER I know. Thank you. 
BRAND I can't imagine how tough it would be to leave your kids behind. 
COOPER You never had any? I thought I was a pariah for only having two. 
BRAND Hard to settle down when you've spent your life waiting to leave the planet. 
Cooper looks at the holographic model of the black hole system. The ice planet looks precariously balanced, orbiting the smaller black hole. 
COOPER Strange place to look for a new home. 
BRAND You wouldn't want to get too close to the surface of the sun, either. Black holes are a more stable supply of power than stars in many ways. 
COOPER You really think there's a plan? 
BRAND I hope so. (looks at him) You don't? 
COOPER I guess I just think we're on our own. 
Cooper looks at the impossibly complicated system of black holes orbiting each other. 
EXT. LAGRANGE POINT, SPACE 
Behind the ship, the sun is a distant light, not much bigger than the other stars. 
CASE (O.S.) We've reached the wormhole. 
The ship slows as it nears a tiny, crystal mouth, just four meters or so in diameter. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
Case looks at the wormhole on the screen. It glows with the light of stars billions of light-years away. 
CASE Deploy the comms relay. 
Cooper moves to the communications touchscreen. 
EXT. ENDURANCE 
The relay is released from the ship, and we finally get a look at Tars' paint job -- the stubby device looks like a 20th century mail box. 
The relay drifts in space. A signal light illuminates as it sends a test packet of data to the ship. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
Cooper watches the comms screen. After a moment it TONES as it receives a data packet from Earth. 
CASE Everyone take their station for transit. We're heading into the wormhole mouth. 
Cooper and the rest begin folding away equipment in the control room and moving into the outer layer of the ship. 
Case initiates a sequence on the keypad and the nuclear engines disengage themselves from the ship. 
EXT. ENDURANCE, SPACE 
The nuclear engines drift a safe distance back from the ship and then snap tight on their tether. 
INT. OUTER HULL, ENDURANCE 
The crew move into the tight, claustrophobic outer layer of the ship. They will have very little room as the ship passes through the wormhole. 
Tars detaches his legs in order to take up less space during transit. Then he tethers himself to the hull wall. 
Case is the last to join them. He detaches a small control module from the console, then pulls himself into the outer hull and seals the passageway. 
Case presses a button on the control module. With a GROAN, the hull walls of the ship begin to BEND. 
EXT. ENDURANCE, SPACE 
The ship's hull begins to CRACK open, revealing the inner chamber. 
INT. OUTER HULL, ENDURANCE 
The SHUDDERING continues. The crew watch nervously as the control chamber below them suddenly opens itself to the cold blackness of space. 
EXT. ENDURANCE, SPACE 
The ship silently rolls itself into position, pointing the opening in its hull toward the wormhole mouth. 
Slowly, the Endurance pushes itself forward, closer and closer to the crystal-like mouth. Finally, it envelops the mouth, bringing it into the open chamber. 
They are on the warped side of the universe. 
EXT. WORMHOLE MOUTH, WARPED SIDE OF THE UNIVERSE 
The vista is dazzling -- an ocean of massive stars and black holes, some adorned with jets and brilliant gas disks. 
At the center, like a king at the center of his court, is Gargantua, plasma jets spewing from its poles. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
The crew pull themselves back into the control deck from the outer hull. Their incredible surroundings are visible in all directions as Endurance passes the light into the cabin. 
CASE Reconfigure the engines and test the communications array. 
The crew break themselves away from the view and get to work. Roth begins adapting his models of the local system with the real observational data pouring in from the ship's instruments. 
Cooper pulls himself to the comms post. PINGS the relay they left on the far side of the wormhole. 
EXT. WORMHOLE MOUTH 'A', SPACE 
The blue and white comms relay LIGHTS up as it receives a packet through the wormhole. 
INT. ENDURANCE 
After a nervous moment, the comms computer TONES with a response -- they're still in touch with the Earth. 
COOPER It's working. 
Tars finishes reeling the nuclear engines back in from their tether and locks them into place. 
Roth's updated model appears on the monitors. Brand stares at it, startled. 
BRAND We're moving. 
DOYLE That's not possible. We haven't activated the engines yet. 
The ship's skin illuminates, overlaying a plotted course on top of the view. 
They are moving, very rapidly, on a course that leads directly between the black hulks of Gargantua and Pantagruel. 
CASE Roth. Why are we moving? 
Roth looks at the stars, then back to his model. 
ROTH The smaller black hole. We're much closer to it than the models predicted. We're being pulled by its swirl. Very quickly. 
The crew looks out through the hull. They are being pulled into Pantagruel's swirl -- a glittering disc of matter spinning at high speed around the hole. 
Doyle looks behind them. The wormhole mouth is rapidly growing smaller. 
CASE Doyle. Fire the engines. Now. 
The ship's engines FIRE, straining to fight the irresistible pull of the supermassive black hole. They won't be able to fight it for long. 
DOYLE We're being pulled into it? 
ROTH No. I don't think so... 
Roth looks at the instrumentation for a moment. 
ROTH (CONT'D) It appears to be pulling us on exactly the trajectory we modelled. If we try to fight it, we could push ourselves off of that trajectory. 
DOYLE You don't know that. 
Case stares ahead into the darkness. 
ROTH We should turn off the engines. Let the swirl take us. 
DOYLE (FRANTIC) Listen to me. (MORE) 
DOYLE (CONT'D) If the modelling was wrong, then we can't be sure about anything. We need to go back. 
Case thinks it over. Decides. 
CASE Shut down the engines. 
The engines shut down. 
SILENCE. The ship drifts for a moment in the swirl, then begins to move. 
EXT. ENDURANCE 
The ship accelerates as it is pulled by the irresistible force of the black hole onto an inspiraling orbit. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
The crew watch as the ship hurtles around the black hole at higher and higher speeds. 
The sky overhead begins to spin due to their motion -- faster and faster until it becomes a blur. The ship begins to GROAN as it appears to be pulled in two different directions. 
The ship is now speeding around the black hole at incredible speed -- one revolution every four seconds. The crew are suddenly SLAMMED against the hull in opposite directions -- some towards the black hole, some towards the opposite side. 
Roth looks at his model, which shows the projected path of the ship. It looks perilously close to the event horizon. 
ROTH It's the tidal gravity caused by the black hole. It means we're right on the critical orbit. 
The comms screen lights up, TONING again and again, as it receives a long garbled update. Then it shuts down. Cooper drags himself along the hull until he reaches the controls. 
COOPER We've lost contact with the relay. 
Case joins Cooper at the comms screen. 
While they're distracted, Doyle maneuvers himself over to the engine control. 
COOPER (CONT'D) One long garbled transmission came in. Then nothing. 
Case looks at the screen. 
Suddenly, the ship is JOLTED as the engines fire at full power. 
The crew looks over. Doyle is standing by the controls. 
DOYLE I'm sorry. I can't let you kill us. We have to go back. 
The engines strain to fight the swirl -- but they're hopelessly outgunned by the gravity of the black hole. 
EXT. ENDURANCE 
Instead of reversing course, the Endurance begins to speed up, as it plummets closer and closer to the black hole. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
Doyle's face sinks as he watches the controls -- on the 'volcano' model, the ship is now passing the crest and spiraling towards destruction. He has made a tragic mistake. 
BRAND We need all the help we can get. Besides, the alternative is to leave him on the ship alone. You think he'll still be here when we get back? 
Cooper steps aside, allowing Doyle onboard. 
EXT. SPACE ABOVE ICE PLANET 
The lander detaches from Endurance, rolls over on its belly, and FIRES thrusters to sink towards the planet's surface. 
INT. LANDER 
The crew watches, fascinated, as the ship descends, navigating between the moons that hurtle past. 
The moons are vastly different than our own; potato shaped and only one to two miles in circumference, they are hugged in a close embrace with the ice planet, only a few hundred thousand feet from the surface. 
EXT. SURFACE, ICE PLANET -- NIGHT 
The lander touches down on the ghostly surface of the planet. 
EXT. SURFACE, ICE PLANET -- NIGHT 
After a moment, the hatch HISSES open and the team steps out, led by Case, holding a rifle. 
The team sets out, moving slowly in their cumbersome suits. 
Lit by the nebula, the surroundings are a little brighter than a full moon on Earth. 
Not that there's much to look at. They are standing on a sea of ice, which spreads for miles. In the distance, small rock formations break through the ice. 
Brand takes a surface reading of the ice. 
BRAND (RADIO) The probe was right. Looks like significant amounts of oxygen trapped in the ice. 
Case leads the way, drawn by a signal only he can hear. He walks fifty yards, then stops on a gentle slope that leads down into a small valley. 
CASE The other probes should be directly beneath us. 
Case and the others begin digging into the hillside. Cooper is drawn to a small mound in the middle of the valley, four feet high. He takes out a small folding shovel and begins scraping at the ice and snow. 
Case hits something solid. But it's not a probe. He digs around a little more, then reaches up and hacks away at the hillside, revealing the outline of something metal: 
A door. They're not standing at the base of a hill -- it's a shelter. The crew stands back, unsure what to make of it. 
A few feet away, Cooper cuts enough of the mound away to reveal something flexible -- fabric caked with ice. He scrapes away the snow, revealing a bright patch of red fabric: 
It's the flag of the People's Republic of China. 
BRAND How could the Chinese have gotten here first? The federal government kept the wormhole a secret. 
Case shrugs. He has a soldier's gallows humor about his old employer's ability to keep anything a secret. 
CASE They didn't do a very good job. 
Case reaches for the door of the shelter. It's sealed shut with ice. He wrenches it open. 
INT. CONTROL MODULE, CHINESE BASE CAMP -- NIGHT 
Case steps into the shelter, followed by the rest of the crew. His lights pick up several years worth of dust. 
Case steps up to an equipment locker. Forces it open. Inside are half a dozen black probes. Exposed to light, the probes begin TONING like the one Cooper found in Texas. 
DOYLE The Chinese must have captured them. So they couldn't return to us. 
The crew stare at the probes for a moment, taking it in. 
BRAND Then how did the probe that Cooper found return? 
ROTH The more immediate question is what happened to the Chinese expedition. There's no sign of their ship in orbit. And they never returned to earth. 
Roth picks up an ancient vacuum sealed package of pickled egg. Virtually none of the rations have been eaten. 
EXT. VALLEY, ICE PLANET -- NIGHT 
Cooper and Brand scrape ice from one of the other small hills surrounding the valley, revealing another structure. Cooper forces the door open. 
INT. BARRACKS, CHINESE BASE CAMP, ICE PLANET -- NIGHT 
Cooper and Brand let themselves in. The shelter is well stocked with food and equipment. 
Brand is taking readings with a radiation detector. 
BRAND The whole place has been dosed with huge levels of radiation. What happened here? 
Cooper looks at the pieces of a modular, one-person rocket, a last-ditch means of escape, stored, untouched in the shelter. He steps back, realizing something. 
COOPER This is the Taichung mission. 
BRAND The Mars mission? The Chinese claimed it had been destroyed on landing. 
Cooper looks over the relay log. 
COOPER They never landed. Not on Mars. Four human crew, fifteen robots. The log says the base has been here for thirty years. 
Case's familiar voice comes through the radio. 
CASE (O.S.) I've found something. 
INT. UTILITY MODULE, CHINESE BASE CAMP -- NIGHT 
The structure is filled with drilling equipment. Cooper and the rest of the team stand at the edge of a three-foot hole that has been drilled into the ice. 
A descending rig is anchored to the top of the hole. Doyle and Case struggle to pull themselves out of the hole. 
DOYLE It goes down for a hundred and fifty feet, then stops. Tunnel's old -- the ice has reformed at the bottom. 
BRAND I'm going to descend to take some samples. Cooper, want to make yourself useful? 
Cooper begins to say something, then bites his tongue. 
EXT. LANDER -- NIGHT 
Cooper emerges, loaded down with several containers of Brand's equipment. 
As he struggles through the wind and snow, his radio picks up data chatter between the mother ship and Case. The comms are just noise. After a moment, Case's voice cuts in. 
CASE (O.S.) Get back here, Cooper. We've got a problem. 
Cooper continues to wade through the snow. Suddenly, he trips over something, dropping the equipment. 
Cooper looks back. He tripped on a white plastic post sticking out of the snow. He dusts it off, to reveal a picture of a Chinese Taikonaut smiling in his flight suit. This is a grave marker. 
Cooper sweeps his hand through the snow, revealing three more white posts with pictures. The entire human crew has been buried here. 
INT. UTILITY MODULE, CHINESE BASE CAMP -- NIGHT 
Cooper only has a few seconds to take this in -- he is falling towards the huge inland sea below. 
Seconds before impact, a tiny warning light flickers on inside his helmet: IMPACT DETECTED. 
Suddenly, a small drag chute EXPLODES from a panel on the back of suit, slowing his fall. Airbags EXPLODE on his legs and torso to cushion the impact. 
Cooper SMASHES into the water. 
BLACKNESS. 
EXT. UNDERWATER -- DAY 
Cooper comes to underwater, as liquid is flowing into his suit from his shattered helmet. 
Bubbles pour out from his suit and Cooper GASPS as his helmet fills with water and he begins to sink. 
As he sinks, Cooper pulls off his helmet, then tears off pieces of his suit. He forces himself through the neck of the suit and then swims upward. 
He is about to surface when he remembers where he is. He hesitates, just beneath the surface, lungs tightening as he runs out of oxygen. 
EXT. SEA, ICE PLANET -- DAY 
Cooper breaks the surface, COUGHS out water, and takes a panicked breath. 
He waits. Nothing happens. He opens his mouth again and breathes in almost pure oxygen. He can breathe. 
Treading water, he looks around. Spots lights in the water below nearby -- Brand, in her suit, is sinking. 
He dives down and struggles to haul her up by the suit. 
Cooper breaks the surface, looks at Brand. Her mask is also broken. 
COOPER Breathe. Trust me. 
She refuses at first. Water is bubbling into her suit through the open mask. Finally, she takes a deep breath. 
COOPER (CONT'D) Your suit is filling with water. I'm not going to be able to hold it much longer. I'm going to let go. 
Brand's eyes widen. 
BRAND What do you mean, you're going to let go? 
COOPER Take a deep breath. 
Brand takes a deep breath and Cooper lets go of her. 
EXT. UNDERWATER -- DAY 
Brand sinks. Cooper swims down, following her, ripping away at her suit. The tear-away seals on her suit are stuck fast, damaged in the fall. 
Cooper finally breaks them off. Brand pulls herself out, free, and they swim for the surface. 
EXT. SHORE, ICE PLANET -- DAY 
Cooper drags himself out of the water and onto the beach. He turns back to offer Brand a hand. She waves him off. 
BRAND I don't need your help. 
COOPER I thought we were supposed to be a collective organism. 
She gives up and lets him help her out of the water. 
They sit together, soaking wet, trying to catch their breath. 
BRAND Thank you. 
COOPER Don't mention it. 
Cooper feels the rocks beneath him, which are translucent, like glass, and polished to an impossible shine. 
He looks up to see Case dragging Roth and Doyle, still in their suits, out of the water. 
EXT. SHORE, ICE PLANET -- DAY 
Doyle and Roth have stripped down from their suits and are breathing in the pure oxygen atmosphere. 
Case and Cooper are pulling modular pieces from their equipment packs to form a small shelter. 
Brand is taking readings with her instruments. 
BRAND Oxygen atmosphere. Pure water. Temperate climate. (TO COOPER) You still think this is a coincidence? 
Cooper looks at the tree line, less convinced. 
COOPER Looks like we can climb up the mountains back to the ice. We're down to three suits. We'll have to send someone ahead to get a fourth. 
BRAND I won't need one. 
DOYLE Why not? 
BRAND Because I'm not going anywhere. This is our new home. 
Brand picks up some of her instruments and a sample case and hikes into the jungle. 
EXT. SHORE, ICE PLANET -- DAY 
Cooper finishes constructing the modest shelter. They load the suits and the rest of their gear inside. 
COOPER Any sign of Brand? 
ROTH She's still taking samples. If you find her, tell her to head back. Night should be falling soon. 
COOPER What happens then? 
ROTH Your guess is as good as mine. 
Cooper hikes into the jungle to look for Brand. 
EXT. JUNGLE, ICE PLANET -- DAY 
Cooper finds Brand taking samples from the tree-like life- forms, which are wildly different from their counterparts back on Earth, piled in torturous coils, as if frozen in a struggle to punch through the canopy to reach the light above. 
BRAND This is incredible. The organisms trapped in the ice above absorb x- rays and emit light. In return, these plants absorb the light and emit oxygen, which feeds the animals trapped in the ice. 
Brand cuts off a sample and drops it into the case. The transparent wall of the case magnifies the structure onto the glass automatically. She compares it with the flecks she collected in the ice above, fascinated. 
BRAND (CONT'D) Look at this. I think they're the same organism at a different stage of the life cycle. (shows him the sample) It's fractal. No individual cells -- the structure repeats all the way down. 
Cooper looks at the sample, then continues scanning the jungle around them, nervous. 
COOPER Any sign of big life-forms? 
BRAND The soil's been disturbed. So something's been moving. But I haven't seen anything. (notices his look) Cooper... are you nervous? 
Cooper punches a few keys into the terminal. Opens up the terminal. Scans the motherboard. Takes Case's rifle and SMASHES one of the chips on the board. 
The terminal comes to life. Cooper hands Case his rifle. 
COOPER (CONT'D) That should open up most of it. 
Case is silent for a beat, parsing the information. 
CASE They got here twenty years ago. The human crew was killed by radiation the first day. But the robots survived. They built the colony and radioed home. But they didn't receive a response. 
COOPER No one was listening. 
CASE (SCANS DOCUMENT) After a few years they discovered a problem. 
DOYLE What problem? 
CASE It doesn't say. Their science team took the ship to continue exploring the system. It says they found some kind of... (TRANSLATING) ...The word literally means 'treasure.' 
Case skims through the rest of the logs, large portions of which have been redacted. 
CASE (CONT'D) The science team returned after five years with a new technology. They began the experiments upstairs, then they left again and never returned. 
BRAND Where did they go? 
CASE I don't know. They've deleted their mission plan. There's nothing else. 
DOYLE I think I know what the problem is. 
Doyle is manipulating the time component of the map, slowing down the passage of time, reversing it, speeding it up. 
DOYLE (CONT'D) Look. 
Doyle speeds up the map until the ice planet is nearly a blur, speeding in its orbit around Pantagruel. 
DOYLE (CONT'D) There's a small black hole moving into the system. Too small for us to have seen in our survey. It's not going to hit the planet, but it's going to come close. 
A tiny black hole soars through the system. Although it misses the ice planet, it deflects its orbit by a tiny degree. After a dozen more orbits, the ice planet dips down close to Pantagruel's event horizon and is torn apart. 
Brand and the others watch as the sequence rewinds and repeats -- the planet is pieced back together again and ejected, then pulled back in and torn apart. Over and over. 
DOYLE (CONT'D) This place isn't paradise. It's doomed. Just like us. 
The crew stand, watching the sequence in stunned silence. 
COOPER How long does this place have? 
CASE A few years. A decade at most. 
Doyle turns to Brand. 
DOYLE So much for the plan. 
Cooper looks at Brand. She is in disbelief, staring as a lifetime's training and optimism are torn to pieces. 
BRAND But I don't understand... why are we here? What are we here for? 
Cooper looks down. Brand's upset is turning to anger. 
BRAND (CONT'D) What the hell are we here for? I trained my whole life to reach this place. 
She looks at Cooper, questioning. 
COOPER (GENTLE) Maybe... maybe Roth's right... maybe we just don't understand it yet. 
She looks down. She knows he doesn't believe what he's saying. He's been right all along -- they're alone. 
For a tiny moment, all hope is lost. 
Suddenly, with a distant RUMBLE, the building begins SHAKING. 
COOPER (CONT'D) Case, what is that? 
CASE It's nighttime. The native life- forms are mobile again. 
The RUMBLE grows more intense, as if the entire building is being gently shaken. 
COOPER No. It's closer than that. (REALIZING) Roth. 
The RUMBLE grows. As Cooper watches, Case's rifle slides free of the desk. But instead of falling, it simply hangs in the air. 
Then he realizes the same thing is happening to them -- his boots no longer have traction with the ground. After a second everything in the room is floating an inch off of the ground. 
COOPER (CONT'D) Quick -- hold onto something. 
He reaches out to Brand but it's too late -- suddenly they're no longer floating, they're falling. 
They're falling up. 
Cooper, Brand and the rest of them hit the ceiling. Cooper picks himself up and adjusts to his surroundings -- up is now down. He helps Brand up. 
DOYLE What the hell is happening? 
Case doesn't answer -- he's looking up at the control equipment for the holographic display, which is GROANING under a load it was never built to handle. 
Case grabs Cooper and Brand and pushes them towards the stairwell as the control panel TEARS free of the floor and CRASHES towards them. 
Cooper falls into the stairwell -- now they're being pulled up and sideways through the stairwell, like an Escher painting. 
Brand pushes Cooper out of the way as debris from the control panel orbits past them back up towards the lab. 
They try to hang on but the force is becoming irresistible, dragging them along the wall of the stairwell and back towards the lab upstairs. 
Brand wedges herself against the railing as objects and debris are SMASHING against the door to the lab. 
Doyle is trying to hang onto the handrail but his grip slips and he CRIES OUT as he falls towards the door to the lab, SMASHING it open. Doyle disappears up and into the lab. 
Cooper slips trying to help Doyle. Brand reaches out for him... 
Too late. Cooper is pulled through the open door. 
INT. INTACT LAB, CHINESE COLONY -- NIGHT 
Cooper is pulled through the door and past the control panel. He reaches out and grabs the underside of the panel. 
He dangles, the panel cutting into the meat of his hand, trying to get his bearings: 
Roth, Doyle, and everything that hasn't been bolted down is either pressed against the sphere in the center of the room or is orbiting around it. 
Roth, who is laughing, jubilant, shouts up to him: 
ROTH The control panel is beneath you. See if you can turn it off. 
Cooper slips as he tries to reach the controls. Finally he finds the controls for the machine. 
BRAND (TO LIU) Your mission is a humanitarian one, wasn't it? You were sent to start a colony. Like us. 
LIU Our mission was to prepare for the evacuation. This site was deemed unacceptable. 
BRAND This device that you have built -- this could save millions of people. We need to get it back home. 
Brand points to the device Roth is holding. The Chinese robots seem particularly unhappy with this development. 
LIU These technologies are the property of the People's Republic. (MORE) 
LIU (CONT'D) We have been ordered to prevent anyone from taking them. We have been ordered to prevent anyone from following. 
ROTH Following? Following where? 
Liu pauses. 
LIU We will await further orders. 
ROTH Your name means six. Where did the others go? One through five? Is that who were not supposed to follow. 
Case turns to look at Cooper. 
CASE (LOW) Take the others up to the lander. Keep going. No matter what happens, don't come back for me. 
Cooper nods. 
Case moves. Fast. He FIRES one shot at the nearest robot, disabling it, then hurls himself at the remaining two, tackling them both over the edge of the ravine. 
Cooper watches them disappear into the void below. Grabs Brand and the others. 
COOPER Come on. 
Cooper picks up the rifle from the destroyed marine and begins hiking up the mountain. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN PEAK -- DAY 
The crew hike towards the ice above. 
Below they hear a metallic BOOM as something heavy hits something else -- Case is still fighting. They keep moving. 
EXT. UPPER MOUNTAIN PEAK -- TWILIGHT 
They are high above the Marine camp, only fifty feet or so below the massive ice roof of the cavern. The Chinese have blasted a tunnel into the ice leading back up to the camp above. 
This high, the air is bitterly cold. Cooper and the others are hunkered down, trying to keep warm, waiting for night to fall so that they can climb back up to the lander without being cooked by the neutron star. 
Finally, above them, the light begins to flicker out. The crew begin pulling on their space suits. 
Brand checks on the fractal wildlife in the sample case -- she is bringing it with them. Cooper catches her eye. 
BRAND We can't leave them all to die. 
She hefts the case and they begin climbing up into the ice. 
EXT. SURFACE, ICE PLANET -- NIGHT 
Brand leads the way, the lights from her suit cutting into the drifts of snow as they make their way slowly back to the lander. 
As they reach the lander Cooper spots lights emerging from the ship. He raises Case's weapon. 
One of Liu's marines steps around from the back of the lander. Cooper FIRES. 
The marine collapses. 
Cooper and the others race to the lander. 
BRAND Was that the last of them? 
DOYLE We're not going to stick around to count them. Let's get out of here. 
COOPER We're too late. 
Cooper points to a damaged section of the ship's hull -- the marine has torn open a section, revealing damaged hardware. 
COOPER (CONT'D) The main thruster fuel supply. We're not going anywhere. 
Cooper looks down. They're stuck here. 
DOYLE What about the escape rocket at the Chinese base camp? One of us could fit into it. 
BRAND It doesn't matter how many of us make it. We have to get this back to earth. 
Roth looks at the moons orbiting overhead. 
ROTH Can the secondary thrusters still fire on the lander? 
Doyle looks over the craft. 
DOYLE Sure. But we don't have nearly enough power for lift off. 
Roth holds up the small gravity black box. 
ROTH (SMILES) Yes we do. 
Roth sets off running towards the Chinese base camp. 
EXT. CHINESE BASE CAMP, ICE PLANET -- NIGHT 
Cooper drags the pieces of the escape rocket out from the shelter. Assembly is semiautomatic -- Cooper lifts the pieces up and they snap together, forming a crude two-stage rocket designed more for a robot than a man. 
When it's complete Roth wedges himself inside, clutching the black box -- he barely fits. 
ROTH I can reach one of the moons in low orbit and turn up its gravity. As it passes overhead it should be able to slingshot the lander away from the planet's surface. (LOOKS AROUND) Along with everything else. 
COOPER But we need to take the box back to earth. 
ROTH You don't need this -- only the idea. The knowledge of how to build it. 
Cooper remembers something. Heads back into the shelter. 
INT. CHINESE BASE CAMP, ICE PLANET -- NIGHT 
Roth follows Cooper into the lab. 
Cooper opens the storage crate. Picks one of the probes at random. Sets it down on the bench next to Roth. 
Cooper begins rigging up a connection between the two. 
COOPER I'm going to image the operating code and the architecture onto the probe's hard drive. It'll be garbled, but it should give you and me enough to rebuild it when we get back. 
Cooper looks at the probe filling up with data. 
ROTH Not me. But you'll make it work. 
Brand is pulling herself up. Behind her, the THUNDEROUS EXPLOSIONS as a strip of the planet's surface is hurled into space have almost reached them. 
Cooper looks at the ship. He'll never make it if he waits for Brand. He turns back to find her. 
He reaches Brand just as the moon's gravity hits them -- they're hurtled off into space. He grabs her hand. 
Seconds later, everything -- the entire ice sheet, the sea and rocks deep below -- is hurled up after them. 
Brand and Cooper embrace as they rocket up through the thin atmosphere. 
Brand looks at him. 
BRAND (RADIO) You caught me. Now what? 
Cooper looks around. They planet's surface is breaking into pieces around them. 
COOPER (RADIO) I don't know. (RADIO) I figured if you were floating out into space, you'd want some company. 
He holds onto her as they fall up and out of the last of the planet's thin atmosphere and the blackness embraces them. 
BRAND Between you and utter solitude, Cooper, frankly, I'm not sure. 
They reach the apex of their climb and the gravity of the planet begins to win out. For a moment they float. 
COOPER Guess you were right -- too much gravity, or not enough. 
He smiles, forgetting their predicament for a moment. They stare into each other's eyes. 
Then they begin, very gently, to fall back towards the ice planet. 
Suddenly, the lander maneuvers beneath them. The airlock opens to catch them -- Doyle is at the helm. 
Brand and Cooper pull themselves aboard. 
INT. LANDER 
Cooper closes the door and Doyle rotates the lander outwards. 
Doyle FIRES the engines and the lander continues ascending into space as the debris around them begins crashing back down towards the ice planet. 
Cooper looks out the window: 
The moon continues tearing up a massive canyon in the planet's surface as it circles out of view. 
COOPER Roth. 
BRAND He's gone. 
Ahead, a shadow looms in the darkness: the Endurance. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
Brand, Cooper, and Doyle pull themselves out of the airlock and scramble to take control of the ship. 
Below them, the surface of the ice planet illuminates as the neutron star's x-rays begin to reach it from the far side of Pantagruel. 
Doyle finally gets the ship straightened out. Its sole remaining engine FIRES, rocketing the ship back towards the dark side of the planet, out of view of the neutron star, and back towards the original wormhole. 
DOYLE I'm setting a course for the wormhole. 
They're going to make it. 
Cooper and Brand make eye contact -- Brand gives him a tiny awkward smile. He returns it, then descends below. 
INT. OUTER HULL, ENDURANCE 
Cooper props Case up against the workbench. He pulls down replacement arms and legs from storage bins. Unwraps them from their vacuum sealed plastic and bolts them back onto Case's chassis. 
Cooper finishes attaching the arm. Case rotates it, checking the function. 
COOPER How is that working? 
CASE Very well, thank you. 
COOPER Good. We've already set the course, skipper. We're going home. 
Cooper hauls himself back up into the observation level. 
INT. OBSERVATION LEVEL 
Doyle is setting the controls. The ALARMS on the controls have finally abated -- they're out of the danger zone. 
BRAND We're safe now. 
Cooper heads to the communications equipment. 
COOPER Now I know why we weren't able to hit the relay. It's not interference -- the blue-shift from the black hole is more than we thought it would be. 
Cooper begins re-calibrating the equipment. 
BRAND (CONFLICTED) Cooper, wait-- 
The ship PINGS the relay on the far side of the wormhole. 
There is no response. 
COOPER Nothing. (THINKS) Wait. The ship cached one long garbled transmission when we first fell into the swirl. If we account for the blue shift then the computer might find something in there. 
Cooper brings up the last garbled transmission they received. The computer begins re-analyzing it, piece by piece. 
BRAND (QUIET) Listen to me -- the blueshift also means we've lost time. More time than we thought we would. 
Cooper looks up at her. 
COOPER How much? 
BRAND A lot... Cooper, maybe it's best if WE DON'T- 
The comms equipment TONES as it translates a packet. Then another. 
Then a FLOOD of communications, one packet a day, hundreds and hundreds of packets: images, videos, audio messages from family and friends. 
Cooper watches, horrified, as the images play out across the screen. He is watching the lives of his family play out at light speed. Finally, the packets slow, then stop. 
Cooper looks at the results, in shock. 
COOPER Forty seven years. 
Doyle joins him, staring at the screen, stunned. 
DOYLE My kids... 
Cooper tries to PING the relay again. Nothing comes back. 
COOPER All of those people back home... none of them will make it. 
As Doyle watches the controls the ship continues to spiral towards the black hole. 
DOYLE This is it. We're going to be pulled in. 
Cooper looks at the controls, an idea forming. 
He pulls himself down. Hauls himself across the deck to pick up Liu's chip. He plugs it into a diagnostic tool. 
BRAND What are you doing? 
COOPER Case said the Chinese found something else. The location was scrubbed from their records. But I bet he knows it. 
Cooper fires up the chip. Begins sorting through the onboard memory. 
Doyle watches the instruments. 
DOYLE Hurry up. 
Cooper concentrates, poring over the numbers. Finally he begins feeding coordinates into the navigation computer. 
COOPER Here. Can we reach it? 
Brand looks at the map. The point appears on the far side of Gargantua. Brand studies the trajectory. 
BRAND We can use the thrusters to keep us on the critical orbit. Then slingshot us towards Gargantua. 
The thrusters STRAIN to push the ship back up towards the critical orbit. 
Suddenly, the tidal gravity SLAMS them against the walls of the ship. 
Finally, the thrusters fire again -- a tiny push, but just enough to launch the ship clear of the black hole, like a rock out of a slingshot. 
The ship races toward the massive hole in the sky below them: 
GARGANTUA 
EXT. SPACE AROUND GARGANTUA 
The ship picks up more and more speed as it soars closer to the massive black hole's event horizon. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
The sky closes to a tiny hole above them. Gargantua is swallowing their view. 
Cooper looks at the radar, which is choked with debris. 
DOYLE We only have a few minutes before we're swallowed into that thing. What are we even looking for? 
On the radar, a tiny empty spot appears. 
COOPER (points to screen) That? What is it? 
Brand looks. In one tiny region on the back side of the black hole, the debris simply seems to vanish. 
BRAND It's another wormhole. 
Doyle FIRES the thrusters again, pushing the ship towards the wormhole. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND GARGANTUA 
The Endurance spins, shifting paths slightly as it continues to race closer and closer to oblivion. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
They study the controls. The projected path shifts, one degree at a time. Finally, it appears to put them on a path to hit the wormhole. 
Doyle shuts off the thrusters. 
DOYLE We're not going to be able to slow down. Hold onto something. 
He locks up the controls. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND GARGANTUA -- MORNING 
The ship is tumbling through space, racing toward the second wormhole. It is massive, much larger than the first wormhole, and it's glowing with a light as bright as a star. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
The crew brace themselves against the hull of the ship. 
Suddenly the ship slams onto the wormhole mouth and is pulled violently into the wormhole. 
WHITENESS. 
As the light fades, Cooper and the others come to. 
The light is rapidly dimming from pure white, fading to a deep red, then infrared, finally darkness. 
Cooper looks out. Checks the instruments. Looks out again. 
EXT. VACUUM 
Nothing. Blackness as far as the eye can see. No stars. No planets. Just inky darkness stretching on forever. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
Brand joins Cooper on the deck. Together, they look out at the blackness that surrounds them. 
COOPER Where are we? 
BRAND I don't know. It's like we entered the wormhole and never left it. 
Brand checks the instruments. There is nothing for the ship to model. 
There is nowhere to go. They drift. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
Days go by. They check the instruments. Still nothing. It's as if they have left the known universe altogether. 
INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM, ENDURANCE 
Doyle sits down. After a moment, he turns on the screen and cues up a message. 
His children appear on-screen, giggling, pushing each other, trying to get a prime spot in front of the camera. 
Doyle cups his face in his hands and cries. 
INT. CREW QUARTERS, ENDURANCE 
Cooper above his bunk, stares out into the blackness. 
A message appears on the screen: 
"Final transmission." Relay powered down 05232087 
Cooper turns off the screen. 
INT. CREW QUARTERS, ENDURANCE 
Cooper is seated, alone. Almost every compartment has been opened and emptied -- debris is swirling through the compartment. 
Brand walks in. They sit in silence for a moment. When Cooper speaks, it's clear his sadness has faded to a gallows humor. 
COOPER Not a single drink on the whole ship. What kind of mission is this? 
BRAND I think Doyle's been experimenting with the coolant from his spacesuit. 
They sit in silence for a moment. 
COOPER You really think we're the last humans alive anywhere? 
BRAND I don't know. Maybe. (looks him in the eye) Yes. 
COOPER So that's it, then? That's all? 
He looks down, saddened by his own words. 
BRAND (QUIET) It's happened a billion times over. Stars explode. The pieces drift in space. Gravity pulls them back together. They form new stars. Then planets. Then us. We die. It starts all over again. 
Cooper shakes his head. 
COOPER What about the plan? The grand scheme. 
BRAND I thought you didn't believe in one. 
COOPER I didn't. But you were bringing me round. 
He laughs, his anger coming and going in waves. 
COOPER (CONT'D) What the hell was the point? What did it add up to? 
BRAND I don't know. Maybe it just adds up to this. 
COOPER This? You're saying the end result of ten billion years is the atoms from dead stars standing here disagreeing with each other. 
She smiles at him. Bittersweet. 
BRAND Maybe that's enough. 
He turns away from her. She takes his shoulder. 
She pulls him into a kiss. His surprise disappears and he pulls her to him, kissing her back. 
Their surroundings forgotten, they drift. She LAUGHS gently as they bump into a wall and he pushes off of it, sending them spinning back into the center of the cabin. 
She pulls his shirt off and it hangs in space. In moments, the cabin is filling with discarded clothes, different colors and shapes, like a ticker tape parade. 
In the center of the cabin, Brand and Cooper make love. 
INT. CREW QUARTERS, ENDURANCE -- LATER 
Cooper and Brand embrace, sleeping, drifting in the cabin. 
Suddenly, Doyle's voice calls out from the other cabin. 
DOYLE (O.S.) It's happening... it's happening again... Get up here... 
Cooper wakes, careful not to disturb Brand. He plucks his shirt from the floating laundry pile and pulls it on. 
INT. OBSERVATION DECK, ENDURANCE 
Cooper hauls himself up into the upper cabin. Doyle is standing in the middle of the chamber. 
DOYLE They just appeared. 
A sphere of distortion, like the one they encountered in the first wormhole, is directly in front of Doyle, hovering at a point in the middle of the cabin. 
Doyle points a finger gently at the sphere, which grows in response. 
Brand pulls herself into the cabin. Several more points appear, as if they've been summoned by the first. 
Some of the points twist, some of them spin, and some of them are motionless. 
BRAND I think these are the creatures that built the wormhole. 
One of them begins to move closer to Cooper. 
COOPER This thing is made of... gravity? 
BRAND No. I don't think it's in our universe at all. I think it lives in the bulk -- the space that the wormholes traverse. And it can only interact with us using gravity. 
The shape playfully grows around Cooper's hand, bending the space it's in, stretching the skin. 
Doyle GASPS as the sphere nearest him moves through his body, coming to rest in the middle and bending his entire torso like a fun house mirror. 
Suddenly, the sphere wrapped around Cooper's hand begins moving, tugging him gently through the cabin. 
In the next moment, all three of them are being propelled through the cabin. 
It's a magical moment -- a communion, a dance between creatures on either side of a massive, invisible wall. 
Doyle exclaims like a kid on a roller coaster as he is whirled around the room. 
Cooper and Brand collide with each other for a second as the bulk beings move them through space. They hold onto each other for a moment and then are pulled apart again as the whirling dance continues. 
Even the fractal creature is involved -- inside its cage, a tiny distortion ripples its fractal skin. The creature breaks apart and plays with the distortion around its enclosure. 
Finally, Brand disengages from the dance and pulls herself around the lab, looking for some way to try to communicate with the creatures. 
She finds two heavy pieces of engineering equipment and moves them close to each other, then far apart. 
The bulk beings soon join her, mimicking the motion of the pieces of equipment. 
COOPER Can we communicate with them? 
BRAND Where would we even start? Maybe-- 
She pull a bag of ball bearings out of a storage bin and tears the bag open, releasing a cloud of the tiny shining globes into the air. 
For a moment, nothing happens. Then, the distortions begin moving through the bearings, shifting them, rearranging them into patterns in the air. 
First, they rearrange the ball bearings into clusters, then shapes spinning around each other -- planets orbiting around a medium-sized star. 
DOYLE That's our solar system. 
In the center of the room is a giant holographic globe of the Earth, perfect down to the tiniest detail. 
COOPER It's a map? 
TARS No. Not a map. This is a simulation of the Earth. A perfect simulation. 
Tars touches the control panel. The map zooms in over Europe. Down onto Paris. Late 20th century: 
People walk through the streets. A woman stops at a newsagent to buy a newspaper. 
Tars touches the controls again and the map zooms out. 
TARS (CONT'D) They tested each of the technologies hundreds of times, trying to find the one that would cause the least damage and still allow us to leave Earth. 
Suddenly, the map lights up with atomic explosions in every city. The sequence stops, rewinds. 
This time, sped up, the Earth seems to be drying up -- great swaths of desert grow across Europe and Asia. Massive circular ships are constructed all over the face of the Earth. 
TARS (CONT'D) This was their best solution. A massive version of the box we found on the ice planet, allowing the entire human population to escape. 
At a given moment, the gravity of the Earth is dropped to nothing and the massive ships, filled with the entire 
population of the Earth, lift gently off of the planet in search of greener pastures. 
Cooper turns away from the machine, bitter. 
COOPER So why didn't they return? Why didn't they save us? 
Brand is staring at the massive map. 
BRAND Because they were too late. By the time they found this place, the people who sent them were dead. They were unable to fulfill their mission. 
Tars points to the next room. 
TARS That was the final problem they tried to solve. 
Tars moves on. 
EXT. PLATFORM, SPACE STATION 
Above them, the blackness of the sky is punctuated with hundreds of crystal shapes, faintly leaking starlight: 
Wormholes. Brand looks up at them, entranced. 
BRAND Where do they lead? 
Tars looks at an illuminated schematic on one wall, mapping some of the wormholes. 
TARS There are millions of them, connecting virtually every planetary system in the universe. There are thousands in our galaxy alone. But the Chinese stopped mapping them when they found what they were looking for. 
Tars walks further. He stops. 
The platform in front of them is dominated by a gigantic version of the black box that Roth found on the ice planet, connected to a massive power array, and pointing into the dark space above the sphere. 
TARS (CONT'D) This was their final creation. They had to capture the mini black hole just to have enough power to try it. 
Several miles above the black box, one of the wormholes glows far brighter than the others, crackling with radiation. 
DOYLE What does it do? 
Cooper steps forward. Runs a hand on the cold, strange material the antenna is made out of. He knows exactly what it does. 
COOPER They weren't interested in the other wormholes because their mission was to return home. That one leads back to Earth. The Earth they were told to return to. 
Tars walks to the controls for the device. 
BRAND But that's impossible... 
Tars turns away from the machine. 
TARS It was only used once. The Chinese team attempted to travel back in time, to Earth just a few years after they had left. 
COOPER Did they make it? 
TARS I don't know. 
Doyle looks back to Cooper. 
DOYLE Do you really think it works? 
Cooper looks up at the machine, suddenly determined. 
COOPER We're going to find out. 
Cooper walks out of the room. Brand follows him. 
EXT. AIRLOCK, SPACE STATION 
Brand follows Cooper as he walks up to the Endurance. 
BRAND You know it doesn't work. Time travel isn't possible. 
COOPER You don't know that. 
BRAND Yes, I do. If it worked, the Chinese would have suddenly discovered all of these incredible technologies. But they never made it. (BEAT) You can't go back, Cooper. You can slow things down, but you can't ever go back. Our home is gone. (off his look) You listened to all of those messages from your family. If you had made it back, we would already know. There would already be some evidence. 
Cooper looks at the machine. 
BRAND (CONT'D) If you try to use it, you'll die, just like the people who built it. 
She puts an arm on his shoulder. 
BRAND (CONT'D) Roth was right, Cooper. We have to keep going. Keep exploring. We have an obligation to try to survive. From here we could find a thousand places where life could thrive. And you're going to return to the one place where it can't. 
COOPER I made a promise. 
He turns away from her, resolute. 
EXT. HANGAR, SPACE STATION 
Cooper and Doyle check over one of the sleek Chinese spaceships. 
INT. CHINESE SPACESHIP 
Cooper is checking over the controls of the ship. Brand walks in. 
BRAND I came to say goodbye. 
Cooper looks up at her. 
INT. HANGAR, SPACE STATION 
Cooper walks Brand back to the Endurance. The ship is packed up and repaired. Brand is looking over their work. 
PROBE'S ONBOARD CAMERA P.O.V. -- 
The probe's onboard camera documents its journey. Fragments OF VIDEO: 
-- The probe HURTLES through the atmosphere, toward North America, the Gulf Coast. 
-- The probe SMASHES down into a sandbar. 
-- Daylight. A man is descending toward it, dangling from a rope. It's Cooper. 
-- Night. A kitchen. A little boy -- Murph -- stares at the probe, while Cooper works at it with a blowtorch. 
-- Tars pulls the probe out of the back of a plane. 
-- Brand's father, older, studies the probe. Gives up. 
-- Much later. People are moving around in the darkened base, scavenging equipment. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD -- DAY 
A combine harvester is dead in a field, service hatch opened. A MAN is lying under the machine, working. 
The man hauls himself out from under the huge machine. Dusts himself off. 
It's Murph, 30s. He looks at the FARMER who is waiting for the verdict. Murph shakes his head. 
MURPH It's done. Auto-pilot's packed up for the last time. 
FARMER You can't make it work a little longer? 
MURPH Can't do anything for you. There aren't any more parts for these. Not anywhere. 
FARMER You don't understand. We're getting less than a hundred pounds per acre. We need to plant more, not less. 
Murph looks around him at the pathetic crop of corn that stretches around them. The plants are feeble, barely able to support themselves. 
FARMER (CONT'D) You've got to find us some more parts, Murph. It's getting desperate. Isn't there anywhere you can look? 
Murph begins packing up his tools, thinking it over. 
INT. HANGAR -- DAY 
Murph stares at the darkened shape of a plane under a tarp. He stares at the tarp, unsure if he wants to keep going. 
He pulls the tarp off, revealing Cooper's old Piper Cub. He checks over the engine, lights, prop. Turns the key. Fires her up. The diesel wakes with a GRUNT. 
EXT. AIRSTRIP -- DAY 
Murph wheels the old plane out onto the field by hand. 
EXT. SKIES OVER THE SOUTHWEST -- DAY 
The ancient plane skirts the San Gabriels. 
EXT. FIELD, SANTA CRUZ ISLAND 
Murph sets the plane down. 
He parks the plane under a copse of trees and climbs down. 
He scans the horizon. Nothing. Is this the place? 
EXT. FOREST -- DAY 
Murph pushes his way through the undergrowth. Stops. 
He's standing at the blast doors to the facility. They've been blown open with dynamite. 
INT. NASA FACILITY -- DAY 
Murph lets himself inside. Lights a flare. 
The place has been gutted. Thieves and scavengers have taken almost everything. 
Murph finds one of the robots, or what's left of it -- it's been stripped, leaving only the bare composite skeleton. The empty eye sockets stare back at Murph. 
Murph looks around the place. There is nothing left to salvage. He turns to leave. Hears a familiar CHIRP. 
In the corner, under a pile of rain-soaked garbage: 
The probe. 
No one has bothered to steal it. Murph stares at it. 
INT. UNDERGROUND FACILITY -- NIGHT 
Murph sweeps detritus off of an ancient computer mainframe that survived the looting. He hooks the probe up to it. 
After a minute, the screen fills with a picture of an ice- covered planet. Then nothing. The rest of the probe's drive is filled with garbage, noise. 
Murph switches off the screen. 
He stands. Begins to leave without the probe. Stops. Turns back. Picks it up and takes it with him. 
INT. KITCHEN, MURPH'S HOUSE -- NIGHT 
Murph is hunched over the probe, trying to pull data off of it with a defibrillator. He has incorporated an ancient laptop into the chain, and is tweaking values on it, trying to decrypt the contents. 
His WIFE, several months pregnant, turns back to him from the stove. 
MURPH'S WIFE Would you get that thing off of the table? 
Murph nods, absorbed. Keys in a final tweak to the decryption software. Hits return. 
Suddenly, the screen begins filling with data. 
Murph stares at it, wide eyed. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BARN -- NIGHT 
Murph, now in his 40s, is putting the finishing touches on a large machine. Although slightly different, we recognize some of the components and their configuration: 
It's a crude version of the gravitational device. 
Murph double checks it, then fires up a small gas powered generator. Throws a breaker, feeding power to the unit. 
The unit lights up. HUMS. But nothing happens. 
Murph, disappointed but undaunted, shuts it down and begins checking it over. He hears a noise at the door. Turns back. His daughter, Emily, 8, is standing at the door. 
