"INTOLERABLE CRUELTY" 
Screenplay by 
Robert Ramsey, Matthew Stone 
Ethan Coen & Joel Coen 
Based on a story by 
Robert Ramsey, Matthew Stone 
and John Romano 
FIRST DRAFT 
BEVERLY HILLS STREET - NIGHT 
It is late night, and deserted. Engine noise approaches; headlights appear; as the car draws closer we hear singing. 
It is a Mercedes convertible and as it roars by, the singing -- a sloppy baritone and a giggling soprano -- whooshes by with it. 
We hold as another car approaches. This one is a conservative sedan, whose occupant does not sing. 
INSIDE THE CONVERTIBLE 
The middle-aged driver is in a tuxedo with a rumpled shirt and cocked bow tie. He is flushed, a Rogue forelock bouncing over his forehead, and he merrily sings "Casey Jones" along with the passenger, a young woman in a party dress who squeals, rocks with the motion of the car, and enthusiastically pipes in on the chorus. 
ANOTHER EMPTY STREET 
The convertible makes a hot turn onto the street and approaches with its singing. 
REVERSE 
The car enters and roars away. After a beat of quiet, the conservative sedan enters and recedes. 
BEACH 
We are at the Malibu Guest Quarters Motel. The singing, squealing Mercedes screeches into the lot and rocks to a halt. 
The young woman staggers out still giggling, and holding a half-empty bottle of champagne. 
The man tosses her a key with a large plastic tag. 
MAN Number Seven. 
She trots away. 
The man twists his rear-view mirror to look at himself. He straightens his bow tie. He puffs his bounding forelock with one finger, nods his head to make it bounce, grins approvingly, and cocks a pistol-finger at his own reflection. 
MAN Zing! 
MOTEL ROOM 
The man enters and looks around. The young woman's dress is tossed onto the bed but she is nowhere to be seen. 
The man pulls an imaginary train whistle. 
MAN Choo! Choo!... 
He looks around, in a closet, under the bed. 
MAN I'm a locomotive, baby! I'm the Wabash cannonball! I'm a hunka-hunka burninnnnn' love! I got fire in my boiler and a fuh -- a fuh -- 
He is reacting to a long leg which pokes out from behind the window curtain. 
A salacious smiles spreads across his lips. He pulls on the cord to draw back the curtain and reveal the young woman in red panties and a bra and a saucily cocked conductor's cap. 
YOUNG WOMAN Tickets, please. 
The man is stripping off his clothes. 
MAN Excuse me, Miss, is this the train to Ecsssstasy? 
YOUNG WOMAN Pull in your ears, Rexie -- you're comin' to a tunnel! 
We hear distant chimes. 
REX Honey! ...Honey?! 
Finally, through the intercom: 
MARYLIN Rex. Get away from the door. 
REX Look, Marylin, can't we have a civilized discussion about this? 
MARYLIN We are. And it's winding down. 
REX But Marylin, you know a divorce would ruin me right now. Everything I have -- everything we have -- is tied up in my business. The business is my entire life. 
MARYLIN Are you forgetting about the Atcheson, Topeka and the Santa Fe? 
REX Marylin? 
MARYLIN Rex. Go away. I don't want to have to sic the dogs on you. 
REX Dogs? 
From inside the house we hear the menacing sound of LARGE DOGS BARKING. 
LETTERING 
On an interior wall; it says MASSEY, MEYERSON, SLOAN & GURALNICK. 
A pull back shows that we are in a waiting room, and a receptionist leans over her partition to chirp at Rex Rexroth. 
RECEPTIONIST Mr. Massey will be right with you. 
INT. MASSEY MEYERSON CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY 
Miles addresses a group of young Attorneys at the firm. 
MILES The problem is that everyone is willing to compromise. That's the problem with the institution of marriage -- it's based on compromise. Even through its dissolution. One attorney will try to score some points, the opposition will try to impeach. The process will find an equilibrium point determined by the skill of the opposing lawyers, and then each party will walk away with their portion of the "goodies." Some say, "Life is compromise." But at Massey Myerson we believe life is struggle and the ultimate destruction of your opponent. 
The Receptionist pokes her head into the conference room. 
RECEPTIONIST Your eleven o'clock is here. 
MILES Ladies and Gentlemen -- we will continue this at the Associates Meeting next Friday. In the meantime, I want you to consider this... Ivan the Terrible, Henry the VIII, Attila the Hun -- what did they have in common? 
As he exits. 
ASSOCIATE Middle names? 
MILES MASSEY'S OFFICE 
You may have seen it in the issue before last of "World of Interiors." There's a Rothko on the wall, an Elle Bleu humidor on the desk, peonies in the vase, and the diploma is from Yale. 
MILES Mr. Rexroth. 
REX Rex, please. 
MILES Miles Massey. Please sit, relax, and consider this office your office, your haven, your war room -- for the duration of the campaign. 
REX Thank you. 
MILES Now Rex. 
He leans back in the leather executive chair behind his desk, makes a steeple of his fingers, and dons his look of deepest concern. 
MILES -- Tell me your troubles. 
Rex, nervous, laughs ruefully. 
REX Jeez. Where do I start? 
Miles gives an encouraging, rueful smile in return. 
REX ...Well, my wife has me between a rock and a hard place. 
MILES That's her job. You have to respect that. 
SARAH Ramona! Don't get Mia Farrow on us. 
RAMONA Three is not Farrow. 
SARAH Who's Rex's guy? 
MARYLIN Miles Massey. 
SARAH Of Massey Myerson? 
MARYLIN Do you know him? 
SARAH By reputation. He got Ann Rumsey that cute little island of George's. 
RAMONA George was so impressed he hired him when he divorced his second. 
SARAH Muriel Rumsey. 
MARYLIN Who's she? 
SARAH Now? She's a night manager at McDonalds. 
RAMONA You should have tried to get pregnant Marylin -- solidify your position. 
MARYLIN No. 
RAMONA You like kids. 
MARYLIN I can't have a baby with a man I don't love... And I can't submit a child to divorce. 
SARAH It's not so bad these days. Kids like joint custody. Two sets of toys. 
RAMONA Maybe next time. 
MARYLIN Maybe. 
SARAH We do have a man for you. 
RAMONA Thorstenson Gieselensen. He just separated from his third. He's in fish. He is fish. 
SARAH She's keeping his name. And one of his planes. And all seven of his children 
RAMONA And only two are hers. 
MARYLIN Please. I'm not seeing anyone until this is over. One husband at a time. 
SARAH I wish I had your discipline. 
A COURTROOM 
We are close on the person on the witness stand, a woman in her 60's. 
LAWYER Mrs. Guttman, you have testified that you were your husband's sexual slave for thirty-six years, ever since you were married -- 
WITNESS Except for two years when he was in the Navy, in Korea. 
LAWYER Prior to your marriage, what was your profession? 
WITNESS I was a hostess. For Trans-World Airlines. 
LAWYER What is your husband's profession? 
WITNESS He manufactures staples and industrial brad-tacks. He's very successful. 
JUMP BACK 
At the counsel's table in the foreground Miles chats, voice lowered with WRIGLEY, a boyish, bespectacled junior associate. Beyond them we see the woman on the witness stand continuing her testimony. 
WRIGLEY Wait... He wants to give her...? 
MILES Nothing. 
WRIGLEY And she has...? 
MILES Video. 
REX My whole metabolism is -- off. 
Miles has been staring at Marylin. She notices this, and smiles shyly. He snaps out of it. 
MILES So, Ruth. How's Sam? 
RUTH Sam is Sam. He's taking up fly fishing. He's in a yert in Montana. 
MILES A yert. (To Rex) Ruth is a living legend, Rex. At a time when most women are in Boca, having early bird specials -- she's working so her husband can be in Montana. In a yert. 
REX What's a yert? 
RUTH (Dryly) I ran into your mother at the radiologist last week. 
MILES What?! 
RUTH Oh, just a routine mammogram. She said to say hello. She's going to Positano with your brother's family. 
A tight, terse smile from Miles. 
MILES How nice. 
MARYLIN Positano is beautiful. Remember when we were there, Rex? We stayed in the Santo Pietro? That hotel on the cliff? 
REX Yeah. 
They drift for a moment. 
RUTH So, Miles. If you have a proposal, let's hear it. 
MILES At this point my client is still prepared to consider reconciliation. 
RUTH My client has ruled that out. 
MILES My client is prepared to entertain an amicable dissolution of the marriage without prejudice. 
RUTH That's delusional. 
MILES My client proposes a thirty day cooling off period. 
RUTH My client feels sufficiently dispassionate. 
MILES My client asks that you not initiate proceedings pending his setting certain affairs in order. 
RUTH Ha Ha. 
MILES (conceding the point) Heh heh. 
REX What's so goddamn funny? 
Miles lays a hand on his arm. 
MILES Please -- let me handle this. 
He puts the clipboard away and looks carefully at Ruth. 
MILES -- So much for the icebreakers. What're you after, Ruth? 
RUTH My client is prepared to settle for fifty percent of the marital assets. 
MILES Why only fifty percent, Ruth? Why not ask for a hundred percent? 
RUTH Oh brother. Here we go. 
MILES Why not a hundred and fifty percent? 
RUTH Yes. Maybe you're right, Miles. Maybe we're being too conservative. Seventy five percent. 
Rex winces. Rubs his stomach. Marylin leans forward and whispers to him. 
MARYLIN Do you need a Tagamet? 
REX You have some? 
She removes a pack of the tablets from her purse, along with several vials of prescription drugs. 
MARYLIN Well, don't look at mine! 
VOICE (O.S.) Oyez. Oyez. Family court for the fifth district of Los Angeles County is now in session. 
COURT ROOM 
A large black woman in judicial robes and raiment enters from behind the Solomonic Platform. 
CLERK -- The Honorable Marva Munson presiding. All rise. 
Massey, Wrigley, and Rex Rexroth in between, rise. Rex and Wrigley remain respectfully standing, facing forward, as they whisper out of the side of their mouths: 
REX Have you sat before her before? 
Wrigley considers. 
WRIGLEY -- the judge sits. We argue. We argue before her. She sits before us. 
REX Okay. Has she sat before you before? 
WRIGLEY You can't sit before her. That's the rule! She sits before we argue! 
Miles glances over and hisses: 
MILES Shut! Up! 
A GAVEL CRASHES 
LATER 
We are on a close lateral track of the jurors faces as they sit, with earphones on, in the darkened courtroom, illuminated by a flickering TV monitor. 
Leaking tinnily through the headsets we hear a very faint: 
VOICE I'm gonna nail your ass. 
The track ends over at Marylin's table, where Marylin also wearing headphones, looks on with studied stoicism. Ruth lays a consoling hand on her shoulder. 
LATER 
Marylin Rexroth now struggles to maintain her composure on the witness stand. She is modestly dressed and her attitude is one of shocked, wounded innocence. 
MARYLIN I was devastated. Of course. 
RUTH Thank you, Mrs. Rexroth. 
JUDGE Mr. Massey, any questions? 
Miles soberly rises. 
MILES Mmmm -- 
He paces, hands clasped behind his back, affecting to be lost in thought. 
Marylin watches him. 
Finally Miles, still pacing, declaims: 
MILES "Dismiss your vows, your feigned tears, your flattery, for where a heart is hard, they make no battery..." 
Marylin looks up from her handkerchief with a look of startled irritation. Miles stops pacing and turns to face her with a faint smile. 
MILES Do you know those lines, Mrs. Rexroth? 
Marylin examines him with guarded eyes. Ruth sensing something unscripted going on, tries to cut it off. 
RUTH Objection, your honor! 
JUDGE Grounds? 
RUTH Uh... poetry recitation. 
MILES Let me rephrase. Mrs. Rexroth, how high is that wall around your heart? 
Marylin eyes him suspiciously. 
Marylin sighs. 
MILES Her Mother? 
Patricia smiles coyly. Gives Marylin a silly little wave by way of greeting. 
PATRICIA Hi, Sweetie. 
MILES Hard to believe I know. I'm sure you are frequently mistaken for sisters. 
MARYLIN (Mumbles) He'll regret this. 
MILES Have you ever met Mr. Rexroth? 
PATRICIA No. I haven't. But I've been out of town. (Little girlish wave) Hello, Rex. Hello there. 
MILES You were never invited to meet your son-in-law? 
PATRICIA No. Uh uh. I don't think so. Hmm? No. Well... no. 
RUTH Objection, Your Honor. This isn't about Mrs. Rexroth's filial obligations. 
JUDGE Sustained. 
MILES Did you know Mrs. Rexroth was married? 
PATRICIA Of course. Of course she was married. What else would she be? Single? I don't think so. 
She laughs merrily at some private joke between her and her psyche. 
PATRICIA Let me tell you something about Patty. 
MILES Who's "Patty." 
PATRICIA Oh. That's her name. Patricia. Like mine. I was Pat and she was Patty. But she changed it after seeing "Some Like It Hot." To Marylin. After Marylin Monroe. 
MILES I see. And what were you going to tell us about Patty slash Marylin? 
PATRICIA When she was a tiny girl? And people asked her what she wanted to be when she grew up? She never said the usual things little girls say -- like -- nurse -- ballerina -- anchorwoman? She always said -- (Very Shirley Temple) "When I grow up, I want to be divorced." 
She laughs happily at the memory. 
MILES Divorce was her childhood aspiration? 
PATRICIA Well, not just divorce. She used to say "I want to be divorced from some big dumb rich guy..." And I guess her dream is coming true. (To Marylin) I'm happy for you Patty 
INT. SARAH SORKIN'S BEACH HOUSE - NIGHT 
Pasta being cooked. Salad being tossed. Wine glasses are filled. It's Girl's Night at the beach. 
MARYLIN It was like that scene in The Godfather. Frankie Pentangeli is called to testify against the Family. And he's in court, and he looks into the spectators gallery, and sees his Brother. They brought the brother from Sicily. And Frankie can't say a word. He can't testify. That's what it was like seeing Pat in there. I couldn't even have Ruth cross examine her. 
RAMONA Why do you think she did it? 
MARYLIN (Shrugs) Maybe she wanted a free trip to LA. Maybe they offered her money. Massey is very seductive. Who knows. 
RAMONA Maybe they put a horse head in her bed? 
SARAH That stinks. They left you with absolutely nothing. It makes you wonder about the entire legal system. Like Rodney King. 
MARYLIN They bought her speech. If I was only in it for Rex's money, he shouldn't have to give me any. 
RAMONA That doesn't make sense. It's like punishing you for being goal oriented. 
SARAH Well, you can live here as long as you want. Do you have any plans? 
MARYLIN Nothing specific, but I'll have my own place soon. 
SARAH So, Marylin. Is that what you said when you were a little girl? 
MARYLIN Probably. Every woman in my life was divorced at least twice. What was I supposed to say. Anthropologist? 
RAMONA I begged you to have a baby! 
MARYLIN In the Godfather, after the courtroom scene, Frankie Pentangeli opens his veins in the bathtub. 
A squawk box interrupts with a female voice. 
VOICE Mr. Massey, Mr. Meyerson would like to see you when you have a moment. 
Miles is surprised. 
MILES Herb wants to see me? 
VOICE When you have a moment. 
INT. OFFICE 
Slatted shades are drawn against the sun. It is dim, gloomy. We can just make out the shape of an ancient man -- small, hunched -- seated behind an enormous desk. A gallows shape next to him is hard to make out; it is tall, rail thin and fixed with a swinging, glinting appendage. 
A voice -- old, dry, rasping, lightly accented of a long- gone Brooklyn boyhood -- seems disembodied and sourceless, as if it is the voice of the gloom itself. 
VOICE Thoity-six objections sustained, tree overruled; fawteen summary judgements sought, toiteen ranite, eighteen movments to voice fuh respondent's prejudice, eighteen ranite which is a hunnut pissent 
An arm is being extended toward us and the glinting appendage swings with it: we see that it is an IV which snakes down and into the hunched man's suit sleeve. 
VOICE -- Twelve cawt days on the Rexrawt case alone; tree hunut'n twenty billable hours paralegal soivicies; four hunnut'n two billable associate counsel and consultative; six hunnut'n eighty billable at full attorney rate and eightyfive lunches charged. 
Miles takes the man's offered hand, withered and roped with veins, and accepts its clammy shake. 
VOICE -- Counseluh, you are the engine that drives this foim -- 
He leans back in his chair, breathing heavily, and runs a tongue over his sandpapery lips. He is wearing oversize Swifty- Lazar style glasses, heavily tinted in spite of the dark. 
At length 
MILES Thank you Herb. 
INT. MILES OFFICE 
Miles sits behind his desk, fingers steepled, staring at nothing, a haunted look on his face. 
His intercom SQUAWKS: 
VOICE Mr. Massey -- 
MILES Please! No calls! I'm feeling very fragile. 
VOICE I'm sorry, Mr. Massey, but I felt certain you'd want to know -- Marylin Rexroth wants to see you. 
MILES Marylin Rexroth? When does she -- 
VOICE She's here now. 
INT. PRIVATE BATHROOM 
Miles runs his fingers through his hair, carefully examining himself in the mirror. Suavely smiling. 
MILES Marylin! How nice. 
He clears his throat, begins again with lower pitch, suave smile still in place 
MILES Marylin! How lovely, uh -- 
He runs a finger across his teeth, which squeak, then puts back the suave smile 
MILES -- Marylin! What a pleasure -- 
DOORWAY 
On Miles as he opens the door, suavely smiling. 
MILES Marylin, what a pleas -- who the fuck are you? 
Facing him in the doorway is a large roughly handsome middle aged man in a business suit. 
Just behind him is Marylin Rexroth, looking as coolly beautiful as ever. She smoothly puts in: 
MARYLIN Miles, how nice of you to see us -- may I introduce Howard D. Doyle of Doyle Oil. 
DOYLE I told you we know each other, baby. Mr. Massey represented my ex-brother- in law. Martin Reiser? 
DOYLE She said "penetrate." Heh heh heh. 
He gropes her. She giggles like a teenager. 
MILES Oh, for the love of... 
MARYLIN That is true, isn't it Miles? Your pre-nup is the best there is? 
MILES That is correct. Not to blow my own horn, but they devote an entire semester to it at Harvard Law. 
DOYLE Harvard? Whoa, Daddy! 
MILES I just want to make sure that you both -- 
He eyes Marylin. 
MILES -- understand what you're asking for here. The Massey pre-nup provides that in the event of a dissolution of the marriage for any reason, both parties shall leave it with whatever they brought in, and earned during. No one can profit from the marriage. The pre-nup protects the wealthier party. 
DOYLE Well -- at the moment, that'd be me. 
MILES And without it, that party is exposed -- a sitting duck. No wriggle room. 
DOYLE A Wriggle Room! Maybe we should put that in the Malibu house. Screw the screening room! 
MILES (slightly sickened) -- and we are sure... 
Eyes boring into Marylin. 
MILES -- we are both sure that's what we want? 
MARYLIN Absolutely. 
DOYLE Course I can't do much "wriggling" if you tie me up like that again. Massey -- this is one bad bad little girl. 
MARYLIN (laughing) We'd better go before we get thrown out. 
ELEVATOR BANK 
Marylin and Howard wait for an elevator as Miles trots out to catch them. 
MILES Excuse me, Mr. Doyle, if I could just borrow your charming fiancee for a moment. 
DOYLE What part? 
MILES I'd just like to have a word with her. 
DOYLE Why not? I'm going to have her for a lifetime. 
Miles drags her to the side as Doyle checks his Sports Pager. 
MILES What are you doing? 
She backs up as he tries to close the space between them. 
MARYLIN Getting married. 
MILES To him? He's a sick freak. 
MARYLIN He's passionate. 
MILES Passionate! He's a pervert. He should have to register when he moves. 
MARYLIN All girls enjoy a little rough trade from time to time. 
MILES Marylin! Listen to me. 
MARYLIN No. You listen to me. (Very quiet and deliberate) You busted me, Miles. You left me with nothing! What did you expect me to do? Get a degree in counseling? Write a book about table linen? Because that's what wives do when they get dumped, and frankly, I'm not quite ready for that. 
MILES But why him? 
MARYLIN We told you. We realized we've always been in love. 
He has backed her against the wall of an alcove which shelters a flowering ficus. 
MILES The Massey pre-nup has never been pene -- successfully challenged. 
DOYLE I do. 
RABBI BOLENSKY And do you, Marylin Rexroth, take Chaim to be the roux in your bechamel? The stock in your sauce? 
MARYLIN I do. 
MILES Argh. 
Heads turn. Miles bites a knuckle. Birds twitter. 
RABBI BOLENSKY Then, by the power vested in me by the state of California, and as the maitre'd in the Prix Fixe Four Star Restaurant of Life, I now pronounce you -- man and wife... 
A kiss. Cheers. Applause. 
A RECEPTION ON THE GROUNDS 
Rabbi Bolensky strolls through the crowd with a heaping platter of smoked salmon. 
Miles is darkly brooding as Wrigley opens a Tiffany box to show him the contents. 
WRIGLEY What do you think? 
MILES What are they? 
WRIGLEY Berry spoons. 
MILES Spoons! Honestly Wrigley, I'm surprised at you. What is this? Some Martha Stewart suggestion? Those are the most cockamamie things I've ever -- 
WRIGLEY Miles -- why so angry? 
Miles sounds wistful: 
MILES Why couldn't we be the club sandwich? 
Ding Ding -- Howard D. is tapping a knife against his wine glass. The crowd quiets. 
DOYLE Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls: I have something to say to my bride. 
Howard D. turns to one side to address Marylin, taking one of her hands between his paws, as she beams up at him. 
DOYLE -- Darling, like the rabbi said... life is a banquet, A Grand Bouffe, and Marylin, darling... I just want you to know that I am IN the kitchen and I CAN STAND THE HEAT! 
Laughter from the gallery. 
DOYLE And I'm going to start this marriage by EATING MY WORDS. Because the hot hors d'oerve of this love story is -- Pre-nup Primavera! 
He reaches into his breast pocket and withdraws a piece of paper. 
DOYLE Carmine! Bring on the Pesto! 
A Caterer places a plate and a bowl of sauce in front of Doyle. Marylin looks on, surprised and bemused. 
DOYLE -- This is for you, darling. 
He starts tearing strips off the piece of paper, dipping them into the sauce, and eating them. His mouth stuffed with paper, Doyle repeats: 
DOYLE -- this is for you, Darling. 
The crowd is murmuring--the murmurs grow in volume -- a smattering of applause -- cheers -- more applause -- wild cheers. Slowly rhythmically, Miles starts thumping his hand together, nodding comprehension. 
MILES Brilliant. 
Next to him Wrigley is puzzled. 
WRIGLEY Why is he doing that? 
Miles' hand-clapping accelerates. 
MILES Brilliant. It's brilliant. He's eating the pre-nup. 
Wrigley's eyes widen. He looks back at Doyle eating the paper. 
DOYLE This is for you, Darling! 
Wrigley bursts into tears. 
WHOOOSH -- the plane roars away. 
INT. MILES OFFICE 
MILES And of course we shall have to litigate. Sentence. Paragraph. 
WIDER 
A secretary seated by his desk is taking notes. 
MILES -- Naturally the first concern for both parties is the welfare of little Wendell junior. Nevertheless, we question whether the continuing expenses for his special ed classes are truly justified given the great strides -- 
Wrigley enters. 
WRIGLEY I'm sorry I'm late. I was having lunch with Ruth Rabinow's assistant. Guess what? Marylin Rexroth is divorced! 
MILES (Delighted) HA! 
WRIGLEY ...and I hear she's richer than Croesus. 
MILES Ah, but is she richer than Mrs. Croesus? 
WRIGLEY She could buy and sell you ten times over. 
MILES She deserves every penny. They pay great athletes a fortune. Well, Marylin Rexroth is an athlete at the peak of her power. 
He hits the call button. 
MILES Get me Marylin Rexroth Doyle. 
WRIGLEY What...? 
MILES She owes me a meal. 
WRIGLEY I'd stay away from her, Miles. 
MILES I know you would, Wrigley. But would Kramer? 
We hear the Receptionist Voice: 
RECEPTIONIST Mrs. Doyle for you. 
INT. FANCY RESTAURANT 
We move in on one of the tables where Marylin and Miles sit as a waiter pours them champagne. 
WAITER Le Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin, 1982. 
MILES Thank you. I'll take care of it. 
As he fill Marylin's glass: Raises his own in a toast. 
MILES To victory. 
MARYLIN I don't feel victorious Miles. I feel betrayed, abandoned and humiliated. I have pictures of him with another woman... 
MILES More pictures? My God, Marylin. You can open an erotic art gallery. 
MARYLIN Did you invite me here to score some cheap laughs. 
MILES No. Just to comfort you, and appreciate you -- 
MARYLIN (Reproachfully) You really think I engineered the whole thing. You think the marriage and the divorce was part of some scheme. You came here to celebrate because you think I'm without morality or soul. You -- (With difficulty) sound like my mother. 
The Waiter hands Miles a menu. 
WAITER Should we order? 
MARYLIN Yes, I -- well, I'm not really... 
MILES Not hungry, huh? Neither am I. 
A long pensive moment. 
Miles reaches across the table and takes her hand. She lets him. He strokes it. 
MILES Marylin? When did I say...? 
MARYLIN I don't blame them for betraying me. I don't blame Rex, or Howard or my father. You see, Miles, I'm going to tell you something about me. Something you may or may not know. I suck! 
We hear the SCREECH of Tires. 
MARYLIN (yelling at someone) Screw you, asswipe! 
MILES Marylin? Forgive me but are you -- drunk? 
MARYLIN A little. (Scream) You get out of the car. That's right, Fuctard. I'm talkin' to you! 
MILES You shouldn't be driving. Where are you? 
MARYLIN I'm on Sunset. Near the Beverly Hills hotel. Wanna meet me for a drink in the Polo...? 
MILES I live right near there. The 800 Block of Maple. Come here. Marylin -- come here right now before -- just come here. 
MARYLIN Okay. Should I stop at Starbucks and pick up a blended for -- 
MILES No. Don't stop. 
MARYLIN Okay Miles. 
INT. DEN - MASSEY MANSION 
Marylin sits in the den. She's had some coffee and, although teary and disheveled, is no longer psychotic. 
MARYLIN I just cried when I got home. Somehow, your disdain for me -- I'm pretty tough Miles, but I'm human. All my life people have been ascribing these terrible motives to me. I used to think they were jealous, or they didn't understand, but... I dunno. Maybe others see something in me. Something I'm not even aware of. Anyway, thank you for letting me come here. I guess I was a little drunk. 
She takes the coffee cup and has a sip. She looks like a lost waif. 
MARYLIN You have a very nice home, Miles. Very inviting. 
MILES Thank you. 
MARYLIN You have wonderful art. I love that lithograph. Hockney? 
MILES Yes. I just got that, actually. It was a gift. 
MARYLIN From a -- girlfriend. 
MILES No. No. I don't have a... no. It was from a client. 
MARYLIN No kidding. I'll bet you have some very grateful clients. What'd Rex buy you? 
MILES Rex sent me two humidors full of pre- Castro Cubans. 
Marylin looks at a photograph Miles has on a side table. 
A WOMAN AND TWO SMALL BOYS. 
The Woman has her arm around one of them. The other stands close to her. Smiling, but awkward and tentative. 
MARYLIN Is that you? 
MILES Me. Yes. 
MARYLIN Oh. And that is -- mom? 
MILES Yeah. Mom. Mom and brother. 
MARYLIN You look like you were a very sensitive child. You have expressive eyes. 
Miles walks over to look at the picture. 
MILES Hmmm... 
MARYLIN And your mother was very beautiful. She must be proud of you. 
MILES She never particularly cared for me. 
MARYLIN She didn't love you? 
MILES No. She loved me. She would never not love her son. She just didn't... I wasn't her "type." She said I was a very, colicky baby. You know? Difficult. Not a good sleeper? Didn't eat well? We got off to a bad start, and she never seemed to recoup -- 
MILES You do? 
MARYLIN Do you want me to sleep on it? 
MILES No. 
MARYLIN Do you want to sleep on it? 
MILES No ma'am. I have been asleep all my life up to this moment. Marylin, will you marry me? 
MARYLIN Yes. Again. 
They kiss. 
MILES I don't have a ring! 
MARYLIN I know. 
MILES I have a watch. 
She laughs. Kisses him. 
MARYLIN I'm happy. 
INT. CHAPEL 
Miles and Kenneth wait. Dressed in suits. Miles looks nervous. 
KENNETH I'm happy for you, pal. 
MILES Thanks, buddy. 
KENNETH Is she Asian? 
MILES Asian? No. 
KENNETH Well... I'm still... 
Wrigley, rushes in, carrying a briefcase. 
MILES Wrigley? 
WRIGLEY Miles. 
MILES Kenneth this is my associate, Wrigley. Wrigley this is my friend, Dr. Beck. 
WRIGLEY The plastic surgeon! I read about you in LA Style. 
MILES Do you have it? 
KENNETH I have it. 
MILES You have the pre-nup? 
KENNETH No. I have the ring. Was I supposed to have a pre-nup? 
MILES No. You have the ring. Wrigley has the pre-nup. 
KENNETH Oh. I thought maybe -- (He sees someone) Gee! 
Marylin enters. She looks outstanding. Her friends, Sarah Sorkin and Ramona Barcelona (who is now visibly pregnant) accompany her. 
SARAH Dr. Beck! 
KENNETH Sarah! How are you? 
MILES You know each other? Of course you do. 
RAMONA You're Dr. Beck? I have an appointment to see you in March. Right after I lose the babyweight. Which of course, will be after I have the baby... 
MARYLIN Sarah Sorkin. Ramona Barcelona -- this is Miles Massey. 
SARAH Hello Miles. 
RAMONA Congratulations Miles. 
RAMONA You're vulnerable. 
MARYLIN It's about time. 
JUDGE You're a sitting duck. 
MARYLIN (To Miles, with great affection) Quack. 
INT. CHAPEL 
Miles and Marylin stand before the alter. 
JUDGE MUNSON Do you, Miles Herbert Massey of Massey Meyerson take Marylin Hamilton-Rexroth- Doyle? 
MARYLIN Yes. 
JUDGE MUNSON "Doyle", to be your lawful wedded wife to -- 
MILES I do, yah I do, uh huh -- 
JUDGE MUNSON Let me finish! 
She glares at Miles. 
JUDGE MUNSON -- Jesus! Haven't you ever been married before? 
Chastened, Miles bows his head. 
JUDGE MUNSON -- To have and hold, to love and to cherish, till death do you part? 
There is a long beat, through which Miles stares at his shoes. 
Marylin looks at him. 
MILES -- I do. 
JUDGE MUNSON And do you, Marylin Hamilton-Rexroth Doyle, take Miles Herbert Massey of Massey Meyerson, to be your lawful wedded husband, to have and to hold, to love and to cherish, till death do you part? 
MARYLIN I do. 
JUDGE MUNSON I now pronounce you man and wife. 
Wrigley bursts into tears. 
THE MARRIED MASSEY MONTAGE 
CUT TO: 
INT. MASSEY HOUSE - MORNING 
Miles and Marylin asleep in bed. The ALARM RINGS. Miles wakes, turns to his beautiful wife -- kisses her good morning. 
She gives him a sleepy Smile. 
Miles dressing for work. Marylin, in a Sabia Rosa bathrobe places a tray with coffee next to him. He holds up two ties for her-approval. She selects one. He puts it on. 
Miles and Marylin reading Newspapers while eating breakfast. She serves him a bowl of fruit and indicates Wrigley's berry spoons. They laugh heartily. 
Marylin waves good bye as Miles backs drives to the office. She waves at the gardeners who blow palm fronds around the lawn. 
MILES OFFICE 
He has managed to fill his credenza with pictures of married life. Due to its brevity -- these pictures are uneventful, the Massey's wear the same outfit in most of them. 
Miles works. He is interrupted by the voice of his SECRETARY. 
SECRETARY I have Mrs. Massey on line one for you. 
Miles picks up. 
MILES Mom...? 
He laughs and laughs. We hear Marylin's laughter coming through the receiver. 
Miles exits a flower store with a bouquet of tulips. Marylin at the doorway, greets Miles as he arrives home. 
MARYLIN I want to nail you ass. 
MILES Are you threatening me, because I'm sure that's a violation of the terms of your bail. 
MARYLIN I'm reporting you to the IRS. 
MILES The IRS? They owe me. I'm expecting a refund. 
He laughs. She looks at him, dead serious. 
MILES I'm clean with the IRS. I've reported every dollar I've ever made. Try again, girlfriend. 
MARYLIN I'm not talking about dollars, studmuffin. I'm talking about -- 
She opens a humidor and takes out a Cigar. 
MARYLIN STUFF. (Chomping on the Cigar) Got a light? 
MILES What kind of "stuff?" 
She reaches into her purse. Pulls out a Dunhill and expertly lights the cigar. 
MARYLIN Arty Farty stuff. (Pointing to the Hockney) Lithographs and pre Castro Cubans. Watches and mileage on private jets. Stuff, Miles. Stuff you get from grateful clients. 
MILES Those are gifts. 
MARYLIN Salary. Unreported income. (Glancing at his watch) By the way, what time IS it on Bellagio Road? 
MILES You can't prove anything. 
MARYLIN I don't have to. That's what the IRS guys do. And they do it with great zeal. See, they work at these tortuous civil service jobs, and when five hundred dollar an hour boys like you take their trade out in luxury goodies, these saps feel.. well, they feel like saps. And they feel bitter and they feel vengeful and they feel WRATH. (Puffing on the cigar) What is this? A Romeo and Julieta? 
MILES You're out of your league, Marylin. Rexroth was a primate. I'm a professional. 
MARYLIN I know. So am I, right? And so is Agent Wilson of the Internal Revenue Service. He's a dedicated, underpaid graduate of Southwestern University -- very tenacious, and never more so than when he's dealing with an unscrupulous colleague. (She stands to leave) I think it's only fair to warn you: I'm going to file an action, Miles. And after a decent interval I plan to have Ruth seek an injunction that will forbid your approach within 500 feet of my house. 
MILES Meaning my house. 
MARYLIN I believe the residence will be part of the settlement. 
MILES Did our marriage ever mean anything to you? 
MARYLIN Drop the bogus forgery charge and I'll forget about your generous friends slash clients. 
MILES That's blackmail. 
MARYLIN That's marriage. 
She gives him a peck on the cheek. As she leaves: 
MARYLIN You'll always be my favorite husband. 
Miles sits dejectedly on the new sofa looking at the paintings. He looks at the watch. And the cigars. And the picture of his mother. 
MILES Pity you can't be here. You'd enjoy this. 
CLOSE ON A BAG OF FLUIDS 
We pull back from the milky yellowish bag of fluid to show that a nurse is unhooking and removing it from under Herb Meyerson's wheelchair where it collects drainage. 
She now places it up on the IV gantry and connects, and swaps the now empty drip under the wheelchair to collect drainage. We are once again in Herb Meyerson's gloomy office, its venetians blocking most of the light and making Herb a dark, enigmatic figure. 
HERB This woman has humbled, shamed and disgrazed the entire foim. 
A reverse shows Miles standing in front of Herb's desk. 
MILES Yes Herb, 
HERB Counseluh, this foim deals in powuh. This foim deals in p'seption. This foim cannot prospuh... nor long endowwa. if it is p'seeved as dancin' to the music.. 
He waves his free arm to the beat of music unheard. 
HERB -- of the hoidy-goidy. 
MILES I understand Herb... I just... for the first time in my career -- I don't know what to do. I'm a patsy. A sitting duck. I'm lost. 
GANGSTER You're in a rush. 
MILES Mr. Dumbarton is, yes. 
A long beat. Finally, Miles explodes 
MILES She won't suffer, will she? 
He bites a knuckle, gazing fearfully at the gangster. The gangster stares impassively back. 
GANGSTER ...not unless you pay extra. 
INT. REX REXROTH MANSION 
An enormous oak paneled room. Furnished with chairs sofas and a huge circular bed. A fire roars in the far corner. On the wall above the bed a film loop is being projected -- soft core pornographic images. 
On the bed, Rex is surrounded by three naked beauties, smeared in cola dust and wearing conductor caps. 
REX I've been working on the railroad -- 
TARTS All the livelong day! 
REX I've been working on the railroad 
TARTS Just to pass the time away! 
REX Can'tcha hear the whistle... the whistle... AWWWWWWW. 
Rex hunches over, clutching his left arm. 
One by one, the girls stop dancing and stare. There is a somber silence, broken by another. 
REX Awwwwwww -- 
The girls are all watching now. One of them steps forward. 
TART -- Whatsa matter, Rexie? 
INT. KENNETH'S HOUSE 
A guest room. Dark, dirty and filled with empty bottles of expensive French wine. 
We hear a phone ringing in a different room. It rings several times. 
The figure on the bed stirs, rolls over, moans, clamps a pillow over his head. 
The ring of the distant telephone is interrupted and we hear a muffled voice: 
VOICE Hello. Yes, he's here. Just a minute -- 
We hear approaching footsteps and Kenneth enters the background, knotting a bathrobe. He turns on the light in the room. 
KENNETH Miles. It's for you. 
The figure on the couch pulls away the pillow. It is indeed Miles Massey. He blearily takes the offered phone. 
MILES Hello. Yes -- what?! Yes -- I see -- 
After another listening beat he drops the phone away. He remains staring dully out into space. 
MILES My God. 
KENNETH What? 
MILES That was Marvin Untermeyer. 
KENNETH Yes? 
MILES He was Rex Rexroth's personal attorney. 
KENNETH What do you mean, was. 
MILES Rex just had a massive coronary. In the middle of a business meeting. He's dead. 
Kenneth is mildly puzzled. 
Marylin hangs up the phone. 
She walks slowly around the room, pausing at the mantelpiece to pick up a framed picture of Miles, which she contemplatively regards. 
We pan with her continued walk to bring Joe into frame. He stands with his back pressed to the wall. She's started for a moment, but quickly recoups: 
MARYLIN Whoever sent you, I'll pay double. 
JOE Mr. Dumbarton. 
She shows him the picture of Miles. 
MARYLIN Is this Mr. Dumbarton? 
JOE No... 
She cocks an eye at him. 
JOE That's his lawyer. 
MARYLIN Triple! 
JOE Who's the pigeon? 
We faintly hear a car screeching to a halt. 
EXT. MASSEY MANSION 
Massey exits the car. He clutches a can of mace. 
INT. MANSION 
We hear a key scrape in the lock. The front door swings open onto a dark foyer as Miles tiptoes in. 
MILES (Whispers) Marylin? 
DINING ROOM 
Miles tiptoes through, looking warily about. He backs through the swinging doors connecting to the kitchen. Finds himself face to face with Joe. 
MILES Joe! Thank God you're in time. You're not in time. I'm in time. Thank God I'm in time. 
Joe stares at him. 
MILES It's a no go! Get it? No one any the wiser. Okay! 
He makes a cow-herding motion with his hands. 
MILES You can go home now! Goodbye! Thanks so much! 
Joe takes out his gun. 
MILES No no! No contract! It's all over. 
This has no effect on Joe who is unscrewing his silencer. 
Miles is exasperated. Suddenly -- Marylin appears. 
MARYLIN It's a no go, Joe. 
MILES Marylin! 
MARYLIN It's okay Joe. 
Joe glances at both of them with barely concealed contempt. 
MILES Wait! He works for YOU? 
MARYLIN Now. But first, he worked for you. 
MILES You were going to have this thug...? 
MARYLIN Wait just a second there. You sent him here. You unearthed this pestilence. 
JOE You're calling me a pestilence? That's a hoot! 
WRIGLEY Ruth. 
Miles and Marylin are looking at each other. Quietly: 
MILES Hello Marylin. 
MARYLIN Hello Miles. 
MILES Hard to believe this is the way it will end up for us. 
MARYLIN It's not something I wanted either. 
MILES But then -- I guess -- something inside me died when I realized that you'd hired a goon to kill me. 
MARYLIN Yes. I know. It's exactly how I felt when I realized you'd hired the goon to kill... 
RUTH Now you both wait a minute. Nobody hired anyone to kill anyone. 
WRIGLEY Hear, hear. 
There is an uncomfortable shifting in seats. Wrigley looks at Miles. 
WRIGLEY Apparently, from what I can gather, a burglar broke into your house -- became despondent over his lifestyle and shot himself. 
Miles is still looking at Marylin. 
MILES Where does that leave us? 
RUTH We've outlined a settlement... 
She pushes a piece of paper across the table. 
RUTH We think it's more than generous. 
Miles ignores the paper, which lies unclaimed on the middle of the table. He looks at Marylin. 
WRIGLEY My client is prepared to consider a reconciliation. 
Marylin looks a Miles. 
MARYLIN How could I trust you, after... after all of this. 
Miles, staring at Marylin, cuts in: 
MILES You wounded me first, Marylin. 
MARYLIN Your forgetting Rex Rexroth? 
MILES You're forgetting Howard Doyle? 
MARYLIN Forgery? Fraud? 
MILES Income tax evasion? 
MARYLIN Murder? 
MILES Murder! 
MARYLIN I don't see how we can ever find our way back from... 
Miles, with his eyes still on Marylin, reaches into his suit coat. He withdraws a piece of paper, spreads it flat on the table in front of him and, still gazing at her: 
MILES You know... there's nothing in the Massey pre-nup that says it can't be executed after the parties wed. 
He decisively clicks the button on a ballpoint pen, looks down at the paper in front of him and scribbles his name. 
He pushes the paper across the table toward Marylin. 
Gazing at him, seeking the truth in his eyes, she absently picks up the paper. 
There is a long silence. We hear only the hum of ventilation, and Wrigley's quiet snuffling. 
Ruth is looking down her nose through her glasses -- over Marylin's shoulder -- at the sheet of paper. Marylin however, looks only at Miles. 
RUTH It's the Massey pre-nup -- 
