THE INVENTION OF LYING 
Written by 
Ricky Gervais & Matthew Robinson 
June 8, 2007 
EXT. CAVEMAN VILLAGE - THE PALEOLITHIC ERA - DAY 
A small caveman community made up of five large caves, all facing out towards a crackling fire. 
Slack-jawed, yet strong and confident CAVEMEN stumble about, dragging haunches of meat, pounding the dirt with sticks, dragging the women. 
WE PAN OVER to a small cave. Not even really a cave at all, but a crack in the rocks barely large enough to sleep in. Stepping out of this "cave" is a small, weak, nerdy-looking caveman. 
The chief caveman, set apart by the large mallet he wields, steps towards the fire and grunts loudly to mark the beginning of a caveman meeting. 
"Loser caveman" steps forward apprehensively, only to be met with laughter from the other cavemen. "Loser caveman" sighs and shrinks back into his sad, little cave, watching them from the shadows. 
CHIEF CAVEMAN (grunting; subtitled) Me see beast today. Beast scary. Beast danger for caveman. 
The rest of the cavemen look nervous. 
CHIEF CAVEMAN If caveman kill beast? Caveman safe. Caveman have food. 
The cavemen grunt in understanding. 
CHIEF CAVEMAN Who kill beast? 
The cavemen grunt amongst themselves. The toughest of the bunch steps forward, pounds his chest and grunts. 
CHIEF CAVEMAN Grob kill beast. Good Grob. 
The chief notices "loser caveman" watching from a distance. 
CHIEF CAVEMAN Loser want kill beast? 
All the cavemen turn and laugh at the "loser caveman". 
CHIEF CAVEMAN Loser kill nothing! 
All the cavemen laugh hysterically. 
CAVEMAN #1 Look at Loser cave! So small! 
CAVEMAN #2 Loser dumb! 
CAVEMAN #3 Fuck that guy! 
All the cavemen pick up rocks and begin throwing them at the "loser caveman", who dives out of his cave and runs around the camp, dodging their blows. 
EXT. CAVEMAN VILLAGE - THE PALEOLITHIC ERA - NIGHT 
Everyone in the village is asleep. Everyone, that is, but "loser caveman" who sleeps uncomfortably in his tiny little cave, tossing and turning, unable to get comfortable. 
A stirring in the trees causes "loser caveman" to sit upright. There's something outside of the village. Something big. 
Suddenly a GIANT TUSKED BOAR pushes through the trees and stands, looking quite menacing, not ten yards from the village fire. 
"Loser caveman" is practically shaking with fear. The boar makes eye-contact with "loser caveman" and charges directly towards his tiny little cave. 
The giant boar runs head first into the cave opening, but the opening is too small for the beast to fit its head inside. "Loser caveman" screams like a girl. 
The boar backs up to strike again -- this one sure to be the end of "loser caveman" -- when a large boulder, knocked loose by the Boar's first hit, tumbles down and lands smack on the Boar's head, killing it instantly. 
The entire village runs out to see what has happened. The "Loser caveman" stumbles out of the cave and dusts himself off. 
The chief steps forward. 
CHIEF CAVEMAN The beast! It dead! 
CAVEMAN #2 Hey, look at loser! He almost die! Look he scared! 
Everyone laughs. The Chief looks towards Loser, standing nervously near the corpse of the Giant Tusked Boar. 
CHIEF CAVEMAN Loser, what happen? 
LOSER CAVEMAN (SHAMEFULLY) The Beast, it came at me. It smash my cave. 
MARK I hope this date ends in sex. 
JENNIFER Not me. I don't find you attractive. Come on in. 
Mark enters. 
ROLL CREDITS 
Jennifer's apartment is new-adult, as if she just found out she was an adult yet hasn't had the time or the money to complete the transition. 
JENNIFER I need to finish getting ready. While doing that I might realize I'm still horny and try to finish masturbating without you hearing. 
Jennifer heads towards the bathroom. Mark stands alone in her living room, looking around. 
MARK (shouting to her) I feel awkward and I regret being early. 
JENNIFER (O.S.) (shouting back) Yeah, I'm disappointed you're early and not really looking forward to tonight in general, but the thought of being alone the rest of my life scares both my mother and I equally. 
It's completely silent for a long beat. Mark looks around, then sits on her couch. 
MARK (shouting to her) I have an erection now because I assume you began masturbating once we stopped talking. 
More silence. 
MARK (shouting to her) I'm embarrassed because I think the restaurant I've made reservations at might not be expensive enough or hip enough to impress you, but it was the best I could do because I don't make very much money. You see, I'm forty years old and have no real financial assets to speak of, I've never owned a home, and never had a significant relationship. My boss even told me today that I'm most likely going to get fired tomorrow and... 
Jennifer enters the room and Mark stops talking. 
JENNIFER I just masturbated. 
MARK That makes me very horny. 
JENNIFER Shall we go? 
MARK Sure. 
Mark stands up. Jennifer picks up her purse and opens the door. 
JENNIFER After you. 
END CREDITS 
INT. MARK'S VOLVO - NIGHT 
Mark and Jennifer drive in silence for a beat. 
JENNIFER I'm only doing this as a favor for my cousin Greg. He keeps begging me to go out on a date with you. He says you're funny. 
MARK Greg's a good friend. 
JENNIFER Where are we eating tonight? 
MARK A cute little place called La Bonisera in West Hollywood. 
JENNIFER You obviously don't have very much money but that's not necessarily a deal breaker. 
MARK I have very little money. 
JENNIFER I also don't really care about a guy who knows all the latest, hippest restaurants. 
MARK I don't know any of them. 
JENNIFER In fact, there are very few things in life that I care about all that much. The only things I have to offer myself or anyone else are my good looks and my affected sense of quirkiness which artistically inclined men interpret as intellect. (MORE) 
JENNIFER (cont'd) In fact, I think my best trait is the fact that I've made very few mistakes: socially, academically, financially or romantically. I take very few risks and therefore lead a relatively happy and light-hearted existence. Mostly though, I'm a kind, sweet person with the potential of genuinely becoming a vital and interesting human being the day I take the energy I expend on hyper self-reflexivity and apply it to actual action in the reality of my life. 
MARK I found that boring and started thinking about this place's fish tacos. 
INT. LA BONISERA - NIGHT 
The Volvo pulls up in front of the restaurant and the valet parking guy opens Jennifer's door. 
VALET PARKING GUY I'm extremely bored. 
JENNIFER Hello. 
The valet parking guy hands Mark a ticket. 
INT. LA BONISERA - NIGHT 
The waiter returns with their drinks. 
WAITER (hands beer to Mark) Here you go. (hands drink to Jennifer) I had a sip of this. 
JENNIFER Okay. 
WAITER Do you guys know what you want or do you need a moment? 
MARK I'm ready. 
JENNIFER I'll have a caesar salad with chicken because I think I'm fat but I also think I deserve something that tastes good. 
MARK I'll have the fish taco's because I had them once here and it's all I know. 
WAITER Excellent, I'll get those both started for you. 
The waiter leaves. Jennifer's cell phone rings from inside her purse. 
JENNIFER Sorry, one second. 
She pulls out her cell phone and checks it. 
JENNIFER It's my mother, this won't take long. Probably checking in on our date. 
Jennifer answers the phone. She talks openly and in plain view of Mark. 
JENNIFER (ON PHONE) Hello? Yes, I'm with him right now. No, not very attractive. No, doesn't make much money. He's all right though. Seems nice. Kind of funny. A bit fat. Funny little snub nose. No, I won't be sleeping with him tonight. Nope, probably not even a kiss. Okay, you too. Bye. 
Jennifer hangs up. 
JENNIFER Sorry about that. 
MARK Don't think twice. How is your mom? 
JENNIFER She's all right. 
MARK Fantastic. 
TIME CUT: LATER THAT NIGHT 
Both of their plates are now empty. Three empty Margarita glasses sit in front of Jennifer. 
The waiter approaches with the bill and places it down in the middle of the table. 
WAITER (to Jennifer) If I give you my number will you call me? 
JENNIFER No. 
EXT. JENNIFER'S APARTMENT COMPLEX - NIGHT 
Mark walks Jennifer to the front door of her apartment complex. 
MARK Thanks for going on this date with me. You're way, way out of my league and I know you were just doing it as a favor to Greg, and that most likely I'll never hear from you again. 
JENNIFER I actually had a better time than I thought I'd have, but I won't know for sure how I feel about you until I'm less drunk. 
MARK Give me a call if you still like me once you're sober. 
JENNIFER I might. 
Mark leans in for a kiss. Jennifer kisses him on the cheek and goes inside. 
MARK Thanks for kissing me on the cheek, I know you didn't have to do that and.... 
Jennifer waves and heads inside. 
MARK (shouting after her) ... you're very pretty. Thank you! 
INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Mark plops into bed in his boxers. His bedroom is bland, uninspired and completely furnished by the cheapest stuff found in an IKEA catalogue. 
Mark flips on the TV and gets under the covers. A commercial comes on TV. 
INSERT: COMMERCIAL 
A man in a suit stands next to a single can of coke resting on a small table. 
JIM Hi, I'm Jim and I'm the spokesperson for the Coca-Cola company. I'm here today to ask you to continue buying coke. I'm sure it's a drink you've been drinking for years, and if you still enjoy it, I'd like to remind you to buy it again sometime soon. It's basically just brown sugar water, we haven't changed the ingredients much lately, so there's nothing new about it I can say. We changed the can around a little bit. See, the colors here are a little different, and we even put a polar bear on it for the kids. Also, coke is very high in sugar, can lead to obesity in children and adults who don't sustain a healthy diet, and has a Ph acidity level high enough to dissolve teeth and bones over extended periods of time. Coke also works great at removing corrosion from car batteries and loosening rusted bolts. So that's it, it's coke. Everyone knows it. It's very famous. I'm Jim, I work for coke, and I'm asking you to not stop buying coke. That's all. Thanks. 
ANGLE ON: TV SCREEN. A black screen. 
NARRATOR Coming this summer from Lecture Films Motion Picture Studios. Written by Oscar winning screenwriter Rob Marlowe. 
INTERCUT Mark scowling at this name. 
NARRATOR (O.S.) And starring Oscar winning Reader Nathan Goldfrappe, comes the epic sequel to last year's most talked about film: "Napoleon 1810 to 1811". Prepare for the adventure. 
The black fades to NATHAN GOLDFRAPPE, a middle-aged austere man sitting before a fire in a velvet smoking jacket, holding a script. 
NATHAN GOLDFRAPPE (READING) And so Napoleon invaded Russia with a brute force of nearly seven hundred thousand men behind him armed with muskets and supported by canon brigades. 
NARRATOR (O.S.) Learn of his defeat. 
NATHAN GOLDFRAPPE (READING) Through the devastating snow they marched, crippled by disease and hunger, Napoleon's men marched on. 
NARRATOR (O.S.) Listen to his redemption. 
INTERCUT the tour, enraptured by this trailer. A few of the tourists whisper to each other. 
TOURIST #1 I love these films. Saves me reading the book. 
INTERCUT the trailer title slamming onto the screen: 
NARRATOR Napoleon 1812 to 1813. Coming this summer from Lecture Films. 
The trailer ends and the tour applauds. The tour guide turns to find Mark walking away. 
TOUR GUIDE Look everyone, there goes Mark Bellison, one of Lecture Films very own screenwriters! 
The whole tour turns towards Mark. Mark turns around and dejectedly waves. 
TOUR GUIDE He's one of our least successful writers here at Lecture Films. (PAUSE) I also hear he's most likely getting fired today. 
The tour nods at Mark. Mark nods back. 
TOUR GUIDE Now let's head to editing bay where we can watch.... 
INT. LECTURE FILMS - WRITER'S OFFICES - MORNING 
Mark walks past cubicle after cubicle until he comes to his office and SHELLEY, his attractive late-20's receptionist. 
MARK Hi Shelley. I'm still attracted to you today. 
SHELLEY Hi Mark. Everyday I realize more and more how over-qualified I am for this position and how incompetent you are at yours. 
MARK Any messages? 
SHELLEY Anthony's coming by within the hour to see if he can work up the courage to fire you. If he can't, he said he'll definitely do it tomorrow. 
MARK Nobody else called? No calls to do with actual work? 
SHELLEY Well, I told everybody you were getting fired this week and not to expect their calls returned, so no one left any messages. 
MARK Next time I'd rather you took down the messages just in case I don't get fired. 
SHELLEY You're almost definitely getting fired. 
MARK Well, it hasn't happened yet. 
SHELLEY Okay, but everybody knows you are. 
MARK Okay, I'll be in my office. 
SHELLEY Okay, I'll be searching for new jobs on Craigslist. 
INT. LECTURE FILMS - MARK'S OFFICE - MORNING 
Mark's office is completely boring and unremarkable, much like his apartment. 
There's a knock on his door. 
ANTHONY enters, looking very much the boss in his expensive suit, yet nervous and fearful as well. 
ANTHONY Wow, you look really depressed today. That's going to make this so much harder. 
MARK Anthony, don't fire me. 
Anthony sits down on the other side of Mark's desk and leans forward. 
LANDLORD You have one day to get your things out of this hallway. 
MARK How am I supposed to do that? 
LANDLORD You've got three hundred dollars. Rent a truck. 
MARK Oh, fuck me. 
Mark grits his teeth in rage. 
INT. BANK - DAY 
Mark steps up to the female teller at the bank. Mark is at the lowest point in his entire life. 
BANK TELLER How can I help you today? 
MARK I'd like to make a withdrawal. 
BANK TELLER Okay, sir. I'm confident I can help you with that. 
MARK I've just been evicted from my apartment so I need to withdraw what I have left in my account so I can move my things out. I guess I need to close out my account to do that. (PAUSE) I think I'm about to be homeless. 
CLOSE ON MARK: This sinks in. 
BANK TELLER Unfortunately sir the system is down right now so I'm not going to be able to perform an account closure until the system is back up. But I can assist you in a withdrawal. How much would you like to withdraw? 
MARK Well, I'd like to withdraw eight hundred dollars. 
The bank teller smiles at Mark. 
BANK TELLER How much are you going to withdraw today, sir? 
MARK All of it. Just whatever is left. 
BANK TELLER The system is down, sir. Please tell me how much you have in your account? 
At the peak of his despair something suddenly comes over Mark. His face turns a light shade of red as the wheels begin to spin in his brain. He is fighting something within. 
WE FLY into Mark's skull, traveling through his cerebral cortex and towards the frontal lobe of his brain. Sparks are flying back and forth across his brain as his synapses fire in rapid succession. 
There is a small explosion. 
We fly back out of Mark's skull -- his eyes are locked on the Bank Teller's like a deer in the headlights. 
BANK TELLER Sir? 
MARK (awkwardly fast) Eight hundred dollars. 
BANK TELLER Pardon me? 
MARK (more confident) I have eight hundred dollars in my bank account. 
The teller locks eyes with Mark... then looks towards her computer. 
BANK TELLER Wait a second here. The system just came back up. (to co-worker) System seems to be back up, guys. (to Mark) Just one second while I access your account. You said you're withdrawing eight hundred, correct? 
Mark breaks out in a cold sweat. 
MARK Yup. 
The bank teller types on her keyboard. 
BANK TELLER Well, look at this. It says here you've only got three hundred dollars in your account. But you said you wanted to withdraw eight hundred? 
Mark doesn't know what to say. He tries to speak but nothing comes out. 
BANK TELLER I apologize for this sir, but it seems our system has made a mistake. Hold on one second while I go and get your eight hundred dollars. Did you want that in large or small bills? 
Mark gulps. 
MARK Large bills. 
The teller walks away. Mark looks around nervously, awkwardly smiling at the other tellers. 
BANK TELLER (to co-worker) Guys the computers seem to be a bit buggy. Will someone call James to come in and look into it, please? 
Moments later the Bank Teller returns and begins counting out eight hundred dollars for Mark. Mark stares at the money with wide eyes. 
BANK TELLER There you are. Eight hundred dollars. Anything else I can do for you today? 
MARK Come on guys. Are you serious? What's my name? 
GREG It's Doug. 
JIM Doug. 
MARK No. My name is Mark. 
GREG (still dead serious) Your name is Mark. 
JIM (still without hesitation) Hi Mark. 
GREG Mark suits you much better. 
JIM Mark-o. 
MARK You guys aren't following me. (THINKING) Okay, guys...I'm black. 
GREG I knew it. 
JIM You're very light skinned, but I can see it. 
GREG I've always wanted a black friend. 
Mark punches the bar in anger. 
MARK Fuck it, I'm an Eskimo. 
GREG Fantastic. 
JIM I've never seen a black Eskimo. 
MARK Okay, I'm a pirate. 
GREG I didn't know they still had those. 
JIM Are you a dangerous pirate? 
MARK Okay then, I'm a lion tamer... and I have purple hair. 
GREG Aren't you scared you'll get bitten one day? 
JIM (to Greg) I want to die my hair purple just like Mark's. 
Greg nods. Mark sighs. 
INSERT: "TWO HOURS LATER" 
Mark sits at the bar looking completely bored. 
JIM I'm a one-armed Jewish space explorer. 
GREG When's your launch date? 
JIM Shalom. How'd you lose your arm? 
MARK I invented the bicycle. 
GREG I love your work. 
JIM Can you get me a discount on a ten speed? 
Mark sighs, finishes his beer and gets up to leave. 
MARK I give up. And I'm bored. 
Mark heads towards the door, dejected. He turns back. 
MARK Guys, if you had the power to make things the way you wanted them, what would you do first? 
GREG If I could do anything in the world? 
JIM Anything at all? 
MARK Pretty much. 
Greg and Jim think this over long and hard. 
GREG I'd bone bitches asses. 
BLONDE WE'RE GOING TO LIVE! We're going to live! Thank you! Thank you! 
The blonde falls onto the bed in exhaustion. 
BLONDE This has been the worst... and the best... day of my life. 
MARK Okay, I gotta go. 
BLONDE Oh no, please stay. We've been through so much together. 
Mark stares at this helpless girl for a moment. 
MARK I'm an asshole. 
The blonde's face and mood do an instant 180. 
BLONDE (SPITEFUL) Well, I hate assholes. Get out of here. 
The blonde chucks her shoes at Mark as he closes the door. 
EXT. MOTEL -- DAY 
Mark walks across the parking lot. A look of total shock on his face. 
INT. BAR - DUSK 
Greg is in the exact same position Mark left him in, but he's twice as drunk. 
Mark plops down next to him, dazed and upset. 
MARK That was one of the worst experiences of my life. 
GREG (SHIT-FACED) Did you invent a new kind of bike? 
MARK What else would you do if you could do anything in the world? 
GREG Bone chicks asses. That's what I'd do. 
MARK What else though. What's the second thing you'd do. 
Greg nods off. Mark nudges him. 
GREG What else would you do, dipshit? 
MARK I'd get money. I'd get all the money. 
Greg passes out. Mark nods his head, takes the three full shots sitting in front of Greg and does them all. 
MARK Yeah. Let's do that. Greg, let's go. 
GREG What? 
MARK We're going on a trip. 
Greg immediately perks up. 
GREG I'll drive. 
INT. MARK'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Greg is driving, Mark rides shotgun, both of them are completely plastered. 
MARK Thanks for driving man, I'm completely plastered. 
GREG I'm just as hammered as you. But I don't care if I get arrested. I'm trying to hit bottom. 
WHOOP-WHOOP come the flashing lights of a cop car right behind them. Greg begins to pull over. 
GREG Here comes bottom. 
Mark looks worried. The cop comes to Greg's window. 
COP Nothing safer than pulling over two nerdy white guys in their forties. 
GREG I don't want to go to jail. 
COP Are you drunk? 
GREG Yes. 
The CHIP WOMAN looks at his money. 
CHIP WOMAN There's a very good chance you'll lose all this money here tonight. 
MARK I know. 
CHIP WOMAN And even if you do happen to win, there's an even better chance that in the long run we'll win it back. 
MARK I know. 
CHIP WOMAN Some of the games are fixed. Like all the ones that use computers. 
MARK I know. 
The woman slides him a short stack of chips. Greg frowns. Mark and Greg walk towards the tables. 
Mark and Greg look around. A cocktail waitress approaches. 
COCKTAIL WAITRESS If I could be a stripper I would, but I'm not attractive enough. Drinks, guys? 
GREG No. I have a stomach flu. 
MARK We'll both have beers and we'll take them at that roulette table over there. 
Mark points to a table and walks away. The waitress nods. 
GREG Oh come on, roulette is the stupidest game of them all. It's pure chance, no skill whatsoever. 
MARK It's okay. I'm feeling lucky. 
GREG You've never had a lucky day in your life. 
MARK Just watch. 
They arrive at the roulette table. 
ROULETTE DEALER Get your bets in, get your bets in. The house always wins in the long run. Because of the zero's on the board every bet is slightly favored towards the house. 
Mark puts his chips down on seventeen black. The dealer starts the wheel. The ball comes to a stop on twenty-seven red. 
ROULETTE DEALER Twenty-seven red. No one wins. 
In full view, Mark slides his chips over to twenty-seven red. 
MARK I'm on twenty-seven red. 
The dealer looks at this. His brain takes a moment to respond. 
ROULETTE DEALER We have a winner. Congratulations, sir. 
The dealer stacks up Mark's new chips and pushes them over to him. 
GREG You did it. You just, like, quadrupled your money. You lucky son of a bitch. 
MARK That's nothing. Watch this. 
Mark puts all of his chips on double zero. A bunch of other people scatter their chips around the table as well. 
ROULETTE DEALER Get your bets in, get your bets in. The house always wins in the long run. Fork over your money right here folks. I say this so often I want to kill myself. 
The dealer spins the ball. It comes to a halt on nine black. 
ROULETTE DEALER Nine black. No winners. 
Mark takes ALL of the chips on the table, both his and EVERYONE ELSE'S and slides them together into a giant pile and sits them right on nine black. 
MARK I'm on nine black. These are all mine. 
The table cheers for Mark. Some people are a bit confused, and a slight hubbub arises in the background: "I thought I had chips on the table." "Yeah, me too." "We must be drunk." "That guys is lucky!" Even the dealer looks a bit confused... but gets over it quickly. 
ROULETTE DEALER Nine black wins. Big winner. Congratulations, sir. 
The roulette dealer slides about five grand in chips over to Mark. Greg's jaw is on the floor. 
GREG Do it again. 
Mark notices the confused people around him. 
MARK I don't think I should. Lets go play slots. 
MARK Hey there, Frank. 
FRANK Mark. How's it going? 
MARK Pretty good, thanks. 
Frank stops and turns around, this is a different response. 
FRANK Really? 
MARK Yeah. You? 
FRANK Awful. I was doing some internet research last night about suffocation suicide. I'm probably going to give that a try tonight. 
MARK Oh. (PAUSE) All right. Bye, Frank. 
FRANK Bye. 
Mark gets in the elevator, Frank walks away. A short beat. Mark exits the elevator and yells after Frank. 
MARK Frank! 
Frank, halfway out the building, turns around. 
FRANK Yeah? 
MARK Don't do it. 
Frank thinks this over. 
FRANK Why not? I'm miserable. And no one will care. 
MARK I'll care. 
FRANK You're a loser, though. 
MARK Don't do it, Frank. Things are going to be all right. 
FRANK They are? 
MARK Yes. You're going to meet someone soon. You won't be so lonely. Things are going to turn around at your job. 
FRANK My job's actually fine. 
MARK Well, things are going to get better. Better than they are. 
FRANK What about the depression? 
MARK It will go away very soon. You're going to be happy soon, Frank. You just need to wait for it. Listen to me: you don't need to kill yourself. 
Something changes in Frank. A slight smile comes over him. 
FRANK Really? 
MARK Really. 
Frank laughs. 
FRANK Wow. Man, and that suffocation thing really seemed like a good idea. 
MARK It wasn't. 
FRANK Okay. Well, my night's open now. You want to hang out later? 
MARK I don't know. Not really. 
Frank's smile fades a tiny bit. 
MARK Sure. Of course. Let's hang out. 
FRANK I'll see you after work. 
MARK Great. 
Mark gets back in the elevator to the sound of Frank laughing to himself as he exits the building. We hold on Mark for a moment as he smiles and nods his head. 
INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Mark sits at kitchen table, pen and paper in hand. 
Mark and Jennifer sit at a candlelit table in the corner of a hip and fancy restaurant. Jennifer looks beautiful. Mark is on cloud nine. 
JENNIFER Congratulations on selling your script today. 
MARK Thanks. Thank you for having dinner with me. 
JENNIFER Everyone needs to eat. (PAUSE) And I enjoy your company. 
Mark smiles. They both sip their drinks and look at their menus. The waiter comes up. 
WAITER I'm an extremely important waiter. (PAUSE) What can I get you? 
MARK I don't want to know what it is, I just want to order the most expensive thing on the menu. 
JENNIFER I'll have the duck. And I think you look like a little rat faced man. 
WAITER Okay, I'll have those right up for you. 
The waiter leaves. Mark and Jennifer stare at each other for a short beat. Something has changed between them and they can both feel it. 
JENNIFER Things seem to be turning around for you. 
MARK Today is the best day of my life. Hands down. Easy. Best day. 
JENNIFER It's not every day you unearth a monumental historical event and sell it for a ton of money. 
MARK That wasn't the best part. It was great, but it wasn't the peak of my day. (PAUSE) I've had a crush on you ever since I saw a picture of you on Greg's refrigerator two years ago. 
JENNIFER Oh. 
MARK The best part of my day today is right now, sitting at this table here with you. 
JENNIFER Oh. 
MARK You're the most beautiful woman I've ever seen in my life, and you're special... and it makes me happy to be around you. 
JENNIFER Thank you. 
Jennifer is touched...but she doesn't reciprocate Mark's feelings. Jennifer moves on. 
JENNIFER Tell me something about your family. I really don't know much about you. 
MARK Ah, my family. We're what you'd probably call "not lucky". My whole family is kind of marked by tragedy, bad luck and general... shittiness. It goes back a long ways and could probably drive someone to suicide just hearing about it, so I'll keep it simple. My mom died when I was six. Cancer. 
JENNIFER Sad. 
MARK And my dad got real depressed and lost his job. Out of work and with a kid to raise he had no choice but to turn to a life of crime. 
JENNIFER What kind of crime? 
MARK He was a robber. Houses mostly. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - DAY 
Nice, mid-to-upper class home. Lots of white wood. The house is very quiet, until... the phone rings and the answer machine picks up. 
MARK'S DAD (O.S.) (on answer machine) Hi, I'm calling to let you know I'll be robbing your house today. I'll probably be there within the hour. (PAUSE) I hope you're not there. 
The message ends. PAN OVER to a SOCCER MOM standing in the doorway. She drops her coffee and screams. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. FANCY RESTAURANT - NIGHT 
MARK He was a very unlucky man. He spent his last days behind bars. I never really knew him. (sad moment; pause) But I guess I've also had a little luck in my life. I did have a wonderful grandmother who raised me. 
JENNIFER Oh, that's sweet. 
MARK Yeah, she's great. 
JENNIFER Where is she? 
MARK Old person's home obviously. Who wants to live with that? Gross. 
JENNIFER I know, right? 
MARK But I'm going to get her out of there tomorrow. (MORE) 
Jennifer pushes through the throng of people, which is now even larger than before. As she reaches the door Mark opens it for her and slides her through. 
MARK Come up quick, they look like they could get out of hand any second. 
Mark hurries Jennifer into the elevator. 
INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON 
Jennifer sits on the couch while Mark, agitated beyond recognition, paces the room. 
JENNIFER Just tell me what you told your grandmother. 
MARK I don't think I should. Who knows what could happen next? I'm just going to keep my mouth shut from now on. 
JENNIFER What you said obviously affected a lot of people. I don't think you have the choice to keep it in now. 
MARK Sure I do. I could just walk out that door and get on a plane and go to Namibia. No one knows me in Namibia. 
JENNIFER Just tell me what you said. Please, Mark. 
MARK My grandmother was dying, and she was terrified, shaking all over. She didn't want to just become nothingness. So I told her that when she died there wouldn't be nothingness. That she would be with all of the people she loved who had died and that she would live an eternity of joy and happiness. 
Jennifer's heart skips a beat. 
JENNIFER (barely able to speak) How do you know these things? 
Mark sighs and looks out the window. The crowd extends down the block, all of them sitting calmly on his lawn, talking quietly to each other, trying to make sense of it all. 
Jennifer gets up and stands beside Mark. 
JENNIFER You have to tell them everything you know. This is too big. You have no choice. 
MARK But you don't understand. The words I said... they weren't... it's not right. 
JENNIFER How did your grandmother feel when you told her these things? 
MARK Happy. At peace. 
JENNIFER And how did that make you feel? 
MARK Good. 
JENNIFER (sweeping her hand over the crowd) Think how good it will feel to do the same for all of these people. 
Mark thinks this over. 
MARK Okay. But I need a few hours to get my thoughts together. 
JENNIFER I'll go tell them. 
MARK Wait! Are you sure this is right? 
JENNIFER Of course it is. You know something that's going to change mankind forever. It's the most important thing the world has ever heard. 
Jennifer leaves the room. Mark, alone with his thoughts, sits down at his kitchen table, pulls out a few sheets of paper, grabs a pen and starts writing. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. MARK'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT 
Mark's neighborhood is a sea of candles. The crowd has grown beyond measure. A massive sea of people, all holding candles, all waiting quietly like serene cows for Mark to come down and make his announcement. 
INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Mark is hunched over his table writing. There's a knock at the front door. Greg walks in with a large pizza and beer. 
GREG I brought pizza. How come you never told me we all get mansions? 
MARK I didn't... 
Jennifer comes out of the bedroom and quickly "shhh's" Greg. 
GREG Inventing the bicycle is one thing, but this... 
JENNIFER Shut up. Let him work. 
Jennifer pulls Greg away from Mark. Mark goes back to work. 
TIME CUT: LATER 
MARK (making it up as he goes) He's a new ethnicity. It's like a mix of all of our ethnicities. 
MAN #2 Does he live on a cloud? 
MAN #3 Can we see him? 
MARK (becoming confident) No. He lives much higher than the clouds, too high to see. 
WOMAN #2 So he lives in space? 
MARK No, not that high. 
MAN #3 So you mean the Thermosphere? 
MARK Look, people I got a lot to get through here. I'm just telling you what I know: Man. Lives in the sky. You can't see him. Controls everything. Cool? 
Everyone nods. 
MARK Number two: When you die you don't disappear into an eternity of nothingness. Instead, you go to a really great place. (PAUSE) Number three: In that place every person will get a mansion. 
MAN #4 What kind of mansion? 
MARK I don't know. Whatever kind of mansion you're thinking of right now. 
WOMAN #3 Oh no! I wasn't thinking of a mansion! 
A lot of people echo this sentiment. 
MAN #5 Shit! I was thinking of a horrible mansion! 
MARK Look, it's the best mansion you can think of, not just now, but ever. Whatever the best mansion for you can possibly be, that's the one you'll get. (CONTINUING) Number four: When you die, all the people you love will be there too. 
MAN #6 Will they have their own mansions? 
MARK Yes, of course. Everyone gets a mansion. 
MAN #6 What if I want them to live in my mansion? 
MARK If they want to live with you, they can leave their mansion and live in yours. 
MAN #6 What happens to their mansion? 
MARK I don't know, it goes back on the market. 
WOMAN #4 What about the people I hate? Will they be there too? 
MARK No. 
WOMAN #4 Where are they? 
MARK Okay, they're probably there, but you'll never see them. They're far off, too far for you to get there. 
WOMAN #4 But what if they try to find me? 
MARK They won't. They hate you too. 
WOMAN #4 But what if they don't? What if they love me but I hate them? 
MARK Well then you're just... you'll both be fine with it. There's only love there, okay? (CONTINUING) Number five: When you die there will be free ice cream. All day. All night. Whatever flavor you can think of. 
WOMAN #5 What, even bad flavors? 
MARK But why would you eat bad flavors? 
WOMAN #5 Well, you just said every flavor I can think of. 
MAN #8 Oh no, I just thought about vanilla and skunks! 
MARK Well don't eat it then! 
WOMAN #6 I've just thought the chocolate sauce is diarrhea! 
MARK Well don't put it on then! What's wrong with you people? I mean... (CONTINUING) (MORE) 
MARK (cont'd) Number six: If you do bad things you won't get to go to this great place when you die. 
MAN #9 Where will you go? 
MARK A terrible place. The worst place imaginable. 
MAN #4 Does he cause natural disasters? 
MARK Yes. 
WOMAN #3 Did he cause my mom to get cancer? 
MARK Yes. 
WOMAN #4 Did he cause that tree to land on my car last week? 
MARK Yes. 
The crowd is quiet for a long beat....they're mulling this over. The first man to speak is a blue collar guy with a thick Brooklyn accent. 
BLUE COLLAR GUY I say fuck the guy that lives in the sky! 
The whole crowd erupts in agreement. People stand up shouting, flicking off the sky. 
MAN #5 Yeah! That guy's a fucking asshole! 
WOMAN #5 That motherfucker better hope I never see him face to face! 
MAN #6 That guy's a fucking coward! Hiding up there and doing bad shit to us! Why doesn't he do it to our faces? 
WOMAN #6 We need to stop that motherfucker before he kills us all! 
Mark looks worried. He didn't anticipate this. Suddenly a thought occurs to him. 
MARK (SHOUTING) WAIT! 
Everyone quiets down. 
MARK This guy who lives in the sky and controls everything is also responsible for all the good stuff that happens. 
The whole crowd "aaaahhs". 
MAN #7 He's the guy who saved my life on that fishing trip when the boat capsized? 
MARK Yup. 
MAN #7 Did he capsize the boat? 
MARK Well, yes. 
WOMAN #7 He's the one who killed my grandmother and left me those millions of dollars? 
MARK You betcha. 
WOMAN #3 So is he the same one who cured my mom's cancer? 
MARK That too. 
The crowd thinks this over. 
MAN #8 So he's kind of a good guy, but he's also kind of a prick too? 
MARK Right. But check this out: (CONTINUING) Number eight: Even if the man in the sky does bad shit to you, he makes it up to you by giving you an eternity of good stuff after you die. 
The crowd "aaahhs" again. 
WOMAN #1 As long as you don't do any of the bad stuff you listed, right? 
MARK Right. Of course. 
WOMAN #2 So it's kind of a test? 
MARK Yes. Right. (PAUSE) Well, that's it. That's everything I know. 
Mark looks out at the crowd, they're all exhausted, their minds completely blown. The Nurse who started this all steps forward. 
NURSE #1 How do you know these things? 
MARK (THINKING) The man in the clouds told me. 
NURSE #1 Yeah, but how come we're just learning these things now, millions of years into our existence? 
MARK I don't know, he forgot or something. I gotta go people, good night! 
Mark takes Jennifer by the hand and pulls her back inside his building. 
JENNIFER What's with you? You seem sad. 
Mark shrugs. 
JENNIFER I don't get it. You're a very successful writer, you've won countless awards and Oscars... 
Jennifer waves towards a shelf full of Oscars and various other awards. 
JENNIFER You've changed the way people see the world, the way they see death and life. You've made the entire world happy. 
MARK Not the entire world. 
JENNIFER I know. Not you. The one person who should be happy, the person who has everything... 
MARK (INTERRUPTING) Not everything. 
JENNIFER What else do you want? 
Mark sits up in his chair and looks right at Jennifer. 
MARK I'd trade it all in for you. All of it. 
Jennifer sighs and sits down beside him. 
JENNIFER Well, you've got me. As a friend. 
MARK (not sarcastic) Yeah. That's important. (MORE) 
MARK (cont'd) But why can't we be together. Why can't you be with me? 
JENNIFER Because of the whole snub nosed thing. With kids, your genetics. You know, fat, short... 
MARK (stopping her) Yeah. Okay. Yup. (PAUSE) It's almost a shame that being rich and powerful and famous doesn't change your genetics. 
JENNIFER What? 
MARK It would be great if it changed your genetic material because I really love you but I just don't... 
Suddenly Mark has an idea. He looks right at Jennifer. 
MARK It does change your genetics. 
Jennifer lights up. 
JENNIFER Does it? 
Mark stares at her for a short beat. He can't go through with it. 
MARK No. No, it doesn't. Our kids would be short and fat with little snub noses. 
JENNIFER Right. Too bad. (PAUSE) Anyway, I've come to tell you I can't go to the movies with you tonight. 
MARK Why not? 
JENNIFER I've got a date. 
MARK What? With who? 
JENNIFER Rob Marlowe. 
Mark stands up. 
MARK You've got to be fucking... Rob Marlowe?!? He's a complete and total asshole. 
JENNIFER Not to me. He's very sweet and kind to me. 
MARK Well of course he is, look at you. I mean, for fuck's sake, a shark would be nice to you... 
JENNIFER It would? 
MARK Well no, I mean... (PAUSE) Don't go out with him. 
JENNIFER Why not? He's a great match for me. 
MARK What's he got that I don't? 
JENNIFER We talked about this. If you and I got together it wouldn't be fair to our kids. They have the right to be attractive and have good genes. (PAUSE) If Rob and I get married You can move into our mansion with us when we all die. 
MARK I don't want to move into your fucking mansion. And what are you doing thinking about marriage with him already? You haven't even gone on one date. 
MARK Hey, Greg. What if I told you that drinking Coke was good for you? 
Greg turns to him, his face full of hope. 
MARK And not just Coke. But all the delicious foods you're not supposed to eat. What if they were all of a sudden really, really good for you? 
GREG It would be the happiest day of my life. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY 
A dozen high powered executives from all over the globe sit around a massive board room table. The head seat at the table is unoccupied. 
They mumble back and forth to each other, unsure why they're there. 
Mark bursts into the room in a suit, looking very manicured. 
MARK Gentleman, thank you all for coming here on such short notice. I have some very big news for you all today. 
EXECUTIVE #1 Is it from the Man in the Sky? 
MARK Nope, this one I came up with all on my own. And it's going to change the way you all do business... forever. 
Mark hits a button and a projection screen comes down on the far wall. Mark starts a slide show. 
MARK Up until now, all products sold worldwide have warning labels printed on them. Warnings like these. 
SERIES OF SLIDES: We see the same warning we just saw on the Coke can, a commercial jet with "This Plane Might Crash -- Four Of Our Other Ones Did" printed on its side, a car dashboard light reading "This Car will Ignite Upon Impact - Always", and a sticker on a grocery store package of ground meat that reads "Injected with hormones that make it taste better -- but will eventually give you cancer". 
MARK As you can see, a lot of these products can be very depressing. They remind people of all the horrible things that can happen to them in life. People hate thinking about horrible things. 
EXECUTIVE #2 Yeah, but they have to know those things. (MORE) 
EXECUTIVE #2 (cont'd) They have to be able to protect themselves. I don't want to hurt anyone. Especially now that I know about the "bad place". 
Everyone in the room shudders. 
MARK Hear me out, fellas. Allow me to introduce you to the future of your companies. 
Mark changes the slide to a can of coke that simple reads, "Coke -- Tastes Great! And It's Good For You!" 
Everyone in the room "ahhhs". 
EXECUTIVE #3 Where can I get some of that healthy coke? 
MARK It's the same Coke as before. 
The executives all squint their eyes. 
EXECUTIVE #4 But this one is healthy! And it tastes great! 
EXECUTIVE #1 Do you have any samples? 
MARK Guys, it's the same Coke on the inside. I've just changed the outside. 
EXECUTIVE #1 (REVELATION) Somehow by changing the outside, he's also changed the inside! 
Everyone "aaahs" in understanding. Mark sighs and changes the slide to that of a commercial airliner with the words "Completely Safe" writing on the outside. 
EXECUTIVE #2 Oh, thank goodness. I've always hated flying! 
EXECUTIVE #3 Me too! 
EXECUTIVE #4 What an invention! How did you do it? 
MARK I didn't do anything, guys. I made this on my computer last night. The plane is exactly the same as it was before. 
Nobody in the room gets it. 
EXECUTIVE #1 That's the only plane I'll ever fly on again! 
MARK That's the point here guys. With these new advertising strategies, people will buy your products with abandon. 
EXECUTIVE #2 But it will take years to replace all of our stock with these new improved products you've invented. 
MARK No. It won't. All you have to do is print these words on the packaging. That's it. 
Mark changes the slide again: The car dashboard light now reads, "This Car Prevents Crashes", and another slide that shows a package of meat with a sticker reading, "This Meat Actually Cures Cancer". 
MARK Nevermind. I'll see you around. 
Mark gets up and leaves. 
INT. MARK'S CAR -- DAY 
Mark drives while we take in a bit of his world, highlighting the various changes he's wrought. 
A homeless man stands on the street corner with a sign that now reads, "Screw it. I'll be in my mansion soon." He has a big smile on his face. 
The same business man pulls up beside Mark's car, this time eating a giant donut and talking loudly into his cell phone. 
BUSINESS MAN I'm not talking to anyone on my cell phone. But from a distance I look very important and busy. 
At a red light Mark eavesdrops on the same arguing couple. 
GIRLFRIEND No, I won't move into your mansion with you when we die. You're really smothering me. 
BOYFRIEND The more you push me away, the more attracted I am to you. 
A bus passes in front of Mark's car. The ad now reads, "Pepsi. Just As Good as Coke." 
A car honks behind Mark. The man leans out of his car and yells at Mark. 
HONKING MAN Move it, fatty! 
As the man passes him, he looks at Mark and pulls up beside him. 
HONKING MAN Hey you're Mark Bellison! 
MARK Yeah. So are you going to apologize? 
HONKING MAN For what? 
The honking man speeds away. 
INT. GRAVEYARD - AFTERNOON 
Mark sits in front of the gravesite of his grandmother. 
ANGLE ON: Her tombstone which reads, "Martha Bellison 1918- 2007. Lived an average life for a woman in her time." 
MARK Nothing's really changed. I gave people the Man in the Sky, made myself rich and successful, told the world they can eat whatever they want and feel good about it. Everyone's happy but me. Because I'm the only one who knows it all... isn't. I made it all up. (PAUSE) You're not up there living in a mansion. You're right here. In the ground. That's all. And I'm the only one who knows that. (PAUSE) And the one thing I want I can't have. Because the world is too stupid to change. The world only cares about what they can see, and what they can know, and what they're used to and what... makes sense. No one listens to what they really want. And that's why I'll always just be a loser, grandma. And that's why I'll always be alone. 
FADE TO: 
INT. MARK'S MANSION - KITCHEN - NIGHT 
With a beer bottle in his hand Mark searches through his kitchen drawers for a bottle opener. He opens a drawer and something catches his eye. 
ANGLE ON: The envelope which reads, "MY INVENTION". 
Slowly Mark pulls it out of the drawer and stares at it. 
The sound of his front door opening startles him and Mark shoves the envelope into his back pocket. 
MARK Who's there? 
JENNIFER (O.S.) It's me. Can I come in? 
MARK Sure. 
Jennifer enters the kitchen. 
MARK Haven't seen you much lately. 
JENNIFER I know. I've been busy with work and things. And I'm getting married. That's why I came over. To tell you. 
Mark nods. 
MARK Don't do it. 
JENNIFER The wedding is tomorrow. 
Jennifer pulls out an invitation, Mark waves it away. 
JENNIFER I hope you'll come. 
Mark shrugs and Jennifer puts the invitation back in her purse. 
JENNIFER I don't feel all right. 
JENNIFER'S MOTHER What's wrong? Do you have food poisoning? 
JENNIFER No. I don't think there's a word for what I have. 
INT. "CHURCH" - DAY 
"Here's comes the Bride" plays over an organ and Jennifer walks down the aisle towards a smiling Rob. 
Mark watches her in awe, stunned by her beauty. Rob notices Mark staring at Jennifer and mouths "loser" at him. 
Jennifer reaches the altar and stands across from Rob. The WEDDING OVERSEER, an elderly man in a suit, stands between them holding a few sheets of paper in his hand. 
WEDDING OVERSEER We are sitting here in this building today to share in the wedding of Rob and Jennifer. Two young, attractive people who have agreed that this union would be mutually beneficial and that their genetic match-up would most likely produce favorable offspring and a life of financial stability and physical security. 
Both Rob and Jennifer nod at each other. 
WEDDING OVERSEER Rob, do you promise to stay with Jennifer for as long as you want to and to protect your offspring for as long as you can? 
ROB I do. 
WEDDING OVERSEER Jennifer, do you promise to stay with Rob for as long as you want to and to protect your offspring for as long as you can? 
Jennifer doesn't respond. 
WEDDING OVERSEER Jennifer? 
JENNIFER (to Overseer) I'm sorry, hold on one second. (to Rob) Rob, can I ask you something? 
There's a slight hubbub in the room. Mark perks up. 
ROB (CONCERNED) Sure. But what are you doing? 
JENNIFER What color are my eyes? 
ROB I dunno... (LOOKING) Oh, they're brown. 
CLOSE ON Jennifer's eyes. Indeed, they are brown. 
JENNIFER No Rob, they're blue. 
Rob looks again. Mark stirs in his seat, amazed by what he's hearing. 
ROB Oh, look at that. So they are. You've got pretty blue eyes. 
PUSH IN on Jennifer. It works. Her mind is reeling. 
ROB Can we get on with this? 
WEDDING OVERSEER Jennifer, do you promise to stay with Rob for as long as you want to and to protect your offspring for as long as you can? 
Jennifer is confused. Her mind is fighting it, but she doesn't know what exactly she's fighting. Finally... 
JENNIFER I do. 
There is a sigh of relief from the room. Mark shakes his head in sadness. 
WEDDING OVERSEER Before I pronounce these two man and wife, is there anyone here who thinks they'd offer either of these people a better genetic match-up? 
Mark bolts up in his chair. 
MARK Me. 
The whole room gasps. 
ROB Oh come on. Look at you. You can't be better. 
MARK Yes I can. You've got shmuck genes. 
ROB Schmuck genes? What's that? 
MARK And I love her. (to Jennifer) Jennifer, don't marry him. Is this what you really want? 
JENNIFER I don't know. (pause; unsure) Yes? 
Mark thinks this over for a beat. 
MARK All right. I'm done. Goodbye. 
