THE ISLAND 
Written by 
Caspian Tredwell-Owen 
We PULL BACK, in marked steps, to include neighboring apartments with identical frosted facades. Then more apartments, above and below, the tiers linked by ramps and crosswalks. It might be a prison cellblock but there are no guards apparent. Indeed, the residents move freely, all notably male, all clad in shearlings, polo shirts and slacks. It is just another day in Sector Four. 
3   INT. NUTRITION PLAZA - SECTOR FOUR - DAY 
Satie's Gymnopedie plays from overhead speakers. 
A glass wall looks out across a green mountain valley. The plaza, formed in curves of creamy ceramic tile, is divided into two service areas. 
Male residents in line on one side, females on the other. Both genders combine in the seating area. Lincoln reaches the head of the line. He swipes his ethercuff o v e r a scanner. A NUTRITION CLERK, a surly woman in uniform, eyes the readout on her screen- 
NUTRITION CLERK Lincoln Six-Echo... Options are dried fruit, oatmeal or anything in bran. 
LINCOLN What? No bacon? 
NUTRITION CLERK You got a sodium flag, pal - now what's it going to be? 
LINCOLN Whatever. 
He shrugs, disgruntled. The clerk taps her screen. Turning to a row of chutes behind her, she collects a foil covered bowl and a drink can. Lincoln, less than appetized, loads his tray with the oatmeal and juice breakfast. Then he heads into the seating area. 
In the seating area, male and female residents sit eating and chatting happily. Uniformed busboys intermix, clearing and wiping tables. A divide in this community now starts to become clear... 
The busboys, like the nutrition clerk, like all the service, maintenance, and administrative staff we'll see, have distinct uniforms but no facial marking. They are known as "outsiders". 
The "residents", like Lincoln, have crosshatched scars on their upper left brows and ethercuffs o n their wrists. Mostly Caucasian, from mid-twenties to mid-sixties. There are no children here. 
We isolate a blonde - mid-20's, fresh, bright eyes, a fragile beauty, a crosshatch of two verticals and one horizontal. Her name is ESTER TWO-ALPHA. Seeing Lincoln, she smiles and waves- 
ESTER Lincoln ! Over here! 
Lincoln crosses, a little surprised to see her. Pleasantly so. 
LINCOLN Hello , stranger. 
ESTER What? You don't recognize me? 
LINCOLN It's just an expression, that's all. 
ESTER You and your expressions, Lincoln. Now sit down and ask me where I've been. 
LINCOLN (sits , a spreading smile) Okay, Ester. Where have you been? 
ESTER At the medical center. Just for tests but they had me on liquid nutrition. (forks a mouthful of eggs) 
Mmmmm. This is the first solid food I've had in a week. 
LINCOLN Exciting. 
ESTER That's not the exciting part. I got my first trimester report: happy, healthy and contaminant-free... Both of us. 
LINCOLN Us? 
ESTER My baby... It's in perfect condition. I just hope I can keep it that way. I still have six months to delivery. 
LINCOLN Then you leave all this behind, huh? 
ESTER Why? Will you miss me? 
Her eyes betray a flicker of something. It unsettles Lincoln. 
LINCOLN I'll miss your coffee. C'mon, I already burned up my quota. 
ESTER Okay. But this is the last time. 
In a deliberate move, she drops her napkin on the floor. As she ducks down to retrieve it, Lincoln steals a gulp of her coffee. Rising again, Ester registers his souring look. 
ESTER What is it? 
Lincoln just nods across the plaza. Ambient conversation is now ebbing at an arrival. An outsider in a grey, vaguely clerical uniform - sanguine, settled, precise eyes. He might be a prison warden but for the generally warm reception. He is known as The Community Director. His name is MERRICK. 
He crosses to a lectern, unlooping a chain from his neck with a three-forked pendant known as a "tri-key". He slots the tri-key into the lectern. The glass wall frosts over and pixellates i n t o a live feed of himself. Now amplified by the plaza speakers, Merrick begins his address- 
MERRICK Good morning. To everyone here and everyone watching on etherscreen, welcome to the community address. Today I'm coming to you from Sector Four. For those of you here with sugar quotas, let me recommend the french toast. I just tried some and it's excellent, really. But I know what everyone's hungry for s o let's move on to the lottery. As always the draw will be made from our host sector. So tell me, Sector Four - is everyone ready for The Daily Spin? 
Applause and whistles erupt, mostly from the younger residents, who take on the zeal of a game show audience. The older ones - including Lincoln - greet the prospect with labored tolerance. Merrick turns the tri-key i n the lectern. The glass wall switches from the live feed to a jumbotron o f flashing text; 
- - DAILY SPIN!... GET READY TO WIN!... DAILY SPIN!-- 
MERRICK Let The Spin begin. 
To a burst of cheers, he turns the tri-key another notch. The glass wall becomes a spinning blur, like a tumbler on a slot machine. But instead of icons, it clicks through names, each separated by a blank line - from "Adams One-Alpha" to "Zucker Three - Charlie" - scrolling the entire population of Sector Four. 
As the spin slows, a pent silence falls. Expectant eyes watch the names click through the P's, the Q's, the R's, the S's and . . . - - SPIN WIN!... STARKWEATHER TWO-DELTA... SPIN-WIN!-- 
JONES C'mon, champ. A stim unit says you won't last three rounds. 
8   INT . BOXING RING - CENTERVILLE - EARLY EVENING 
- C R A C K - The same face recoils from a punch. Jones shakes it off, retreating, recovering. He resets his guard as Lincoln moves in. Lincoln jabs at Jones' defenses, his blowing hitting harder than we'd expect from his stature. Suddenly he breaks through with a left hook. Jones staggers back. A strange ripple distorts his face. Stranger still, his skin tone takes on a grainy pallor. 
As the bout continues, we widen to see the boxing ring is indeed a ring rather than a square and beyond the ropes is an outer ring. With Lincoln in FG, we now see another figure in the outer ring, mirroring his moves, dressed identically but for the gloves which are like gauntlets. The gauntlets are rigged to two armatures which are, in turn, rigged to a gantry-like mechanism. It glides 
noiselessly to and fro, shadowing the figure round the outer ring. RACK FOCUS reveals the figure is also Lincoln . The real Lincoln, in fact. The one in FG is a derivative hologram known as a "proxy". As Lincoln fakes and jabs, the counter-weighted armatures drag and recoil, duplicating the exertions of his proxy. Jones moves more sluggishly, his proxy now ghostly, transparent. Now being sent on a last offensive only to be roundhoused by another left hook. Jones' proxy topples and explodes into a pixellated mist. 
LINCOLN Whoooooo! 
Lincoln proxy - and Lincoln - punch the air in victory. Jones unlatches his gauntlets, sweating, galled by the defeat- 
JONES Sure you input the right weight class? 
LINCOLN You're just too slow, Jonesy. 
JONES You're faster `cause you're lighter. Programmers... they always miss something. 
LINCOLN Hey, you put up, now pay up. 
9   INT . STIM BAR - CENTERVILLE - EVENING 
Rainbow light and swirling electronic music. The clientele are all male residents. Round the walls, poster-sized etherscreens display various dancing women, beckoning, text supers flashing: 
- - NEW AT THE PLEASURE CENTER!... OR TRY A MYSTERY DATE!... At the bar, Lincoln and Jones, freshly showered, each swipe their ethercuffs over a scanner. A uniformed BARTENDER notes the readout- 
BARTENDER Jones Three-Bravo; you got five units. Your friend, he's got an alcohol flag. 
JONES So make it a beer and a Vita Cola. 
The bartender serves the drinks and they settle at the end of the bar. Scoping for onlookers, Lincoln steals a gulp of Jones' beer. 
JONES You know, you're going to get yourself contaminated one of these days. 
LINCOLN Shut up, Jonesy. 
JONES So, you up for a rematch tomorrow? 
LINCOLN I can't. I got an interact. 
JONES With who? That blonde again? 
LINCOLN Hey, it's an authorized interaction. We're on the same meditation program. 
JONES You want to get flagged for proximity? 
LINCOLN No law against friendship, Jonesy. 
JONES Quick . . . Give me that beer back. 
TWO CENSUS OFFICERS ("CENSORS") enter the bar; in wireless head- sets and white uniforms, they seem at once clinical and military. CENSOR 1 carries a tablet known as an "etherboard". CENSOR 2, more imposing, carries a wide-muzzle rifle known as a "stopgun". Their foreboding appearance is greeted without alarm. As they move up the bar, the customers dutifully swipe their ethercuffs over the etherboard. Now reaching Jones, who swipes accordingly- 
JONES What's going on, officer? 
CENSOR 1 Census check. 
Censor1 checks the etherboard; a headshot of Jones spins in 3-D. He offers it to Lincoln who swipes his ethercuff emphatically- 
LINCOLN What happened? You lost count? 
CENSOR 1 I hope nobody's drinking off-quota. 
LINCOLN Vita Cola all the way, officer. 
Lincoln sips his cola. As they move on, he grimaces at the taste. 
10   INT . SHUTTLE - IN TRANSIT - LATER 
Lincoln stares out of the window. The red pulse of the lode poles catches a glazed look in his eyes. His pupils, a little dilated. His focus returns to the interior and an etherscreen banner: 
- - G E T READY FOR THE DAILY SPIN!... TOMORROW IT COULD BE YOU... 
11   INT. BEDROOM - LINCOLN'S APARTMENT - THE NEXT DAY 
The horizon. The morning sun streams over the green mountains. Lincoln lies sleeping, his head buried under the pillow. Off a beeping sound, he stirs and squints up at the mirrored ceiling: 
- - ETHER CALL PENDING ; ACCEPT OR SEND TO MESSAGE BANK? 
LINCOLN Accept. 
The etherscreen resolves Ester's face, fresh and bright. 
ESTER (ON ETHERSCREEN) Lincoln? I missed you at breakfast. 
LINCOLN I guess I overslept. 
ESTER (ON ETHERSCREEN) I just wanted to check we're still on for tonight. The interact. 
T H E WASP The commercial. The girl with the baby. What is that? A fix for infertility? 
DR. SANGER You mean the maternity plan? No. N o t endemic infertility at least. As I said, the law prohibits genetic alteration so a defect endemic in a sponsor will also be present in their agnate. No, what the maternity plan provides is a way round the risks and rigors of childbirth. Under this plan, an agnate becomes eligible for pregnancy shortly after foundation. A simple donation of sperm from the father, then the agnate is fertilized and brings your baby to term. 
THE WASP An d then what? You get it in the mail? 
DR. SANGER F o r practical reasons, delivery is handled by your healthcare p r o v i d e r . 
T H E WASP An d "the agnate" - what happens to it? When it's, you know - delivered. 
DR. SANGER The same rule applies. You can continue your sponsorship. Or not. And in this case, there's a natural window for compliance as the agnate is routinely sedated after delivery. As to whether it wakes up from that sleep, like I said, the choice is yours... 
T H E WASP ( b e a t , a shrug) An y t h i n g to avoid stretch-marks, right? 
The other tour members, some more guiltily than others, laugh. 
23   EXT . PROCESSING PLANT A i r blasts up from the same giant tunnel, swallowing the laughs. 
24   INT . EXTRACTOR SHAFT 
The acoustic hollowing as we look up from the now empty catwalk. The blast of air fading into the deep, steady thrum of the fans. 
25   INT . CONTAINMENT 
The thrum fading to silence. A flat, measured silence as we revisit the community in soundless montage. The residential block, the frosted facades. The nutrition plaza, the counters, the chutes. The subway, the moving walkways. Centerville, the buildings now emitting a trickle of agnates, ending their workday - unwitting participants in their own greater utility. 
26   INT . DIRECTOR'S OFFICE - CENTERVILLE A glass wall looks down on the avenue. The furniture is trans- p a r e n t , ethereal. Merrick sits at a console desk studying an etherboard. O f f a buzz, he taps a button. The door opens and Lincoln enters, composing a deadpan. He doesn't like this man. 
LINCOLN You wanted to see me? 
MERRICK Yes . Please, take a seat. He taps     a button. The glass wall frosts over. It's unnerving but Lincoln      stays deadpan, moving the chair before taking a seat. Merrick      reviews the etherboard: Lincoln's headshot s p i n n i n g in 3D w i t h   a scroll of data. Then he looks up, forming a smile- 
MERRICK How ' s Lincoln Six-Echo today? 
Lincoln shrugs, noncommittal. Merrick eyes him thoughtfully. 
MERRICK E v e r y t h i n g going okay? 
LINCOLN I guess not. 
MERRICK Why do you say that? LINCOLN I f I'm here. 
MERRICK I'm not sure I deserve such a negative association. My job's only to see that you're happy. That everything's okay. 
LINCOLN Right. MERRICK I t sounds like you don't believe me. 
LINCOLN Why wouldn't I? 
MERRICK ( s i t s back, smiling) I t ' s part of your makeup. To challenge things. To question what's around you. 
LINCOLN Ah. 
MERRICK P e r h a p s you can utilize that facility by helping me solve a little puzzle. Lincoln shifts, feeling uneasy. Merrick consults the etherboard- 
MERRICK You're doing well in most areas - pro- f i c i e n t a t work, exercising rigorously, your last medical puts you in excellent condition. But screening's picked up some deviations. Trace levels, changes in your sleep pattern... I see you've also been burning up your quotas... 
LINCOLN A r e you saying I'm contaminated? 
MERRICK No. LINCOLN The n what's the problem? 
MERRICK The r e are parameters, Lincoln. When someone starts straying from those parameters, we need to find out why. 
LINCOLN Why? 
MERRICK Because you - not just you, all of our residents - are special. Because people like me don't get to go to The Island. 
He smiles. Lincoln stays deadpan, wondering where this is going. 
MERRICK S o tell me, have you noticed any changes in yourself? 
LINCOLN No. MERRICK What about your sleep pattern? You feel you've been sleeping properly? 
Lincoln shrugs, refractory. 
MERRICK L e t me put it another way, when you wake up, do you feel... disrupted? 
LINCOLN Disrupted? 
MERRICK R e s t l e s s , disoriented, uneasy... LINCOLN I don't know. 
MERRICK They're all words in your vocabulary. I know you understand what they mean. Lincoln ' s jaw clenches, patronized. Merrick notes this, resumes- 
MERRICK Quotas . . . nutrition. Do you feel like you want more than you're given? LINCOLN I don't know. 
MERRICK Do you have any difficulty staying focused? At work, for instance? 
Lincoln ' s jaw twitches. Merrick notes this, proceeds with care- 
MERRICK H a v e you been experiencing feelings, sensations you don't quite understand? 
Lincoln looks out at the etherwall. The faces blink off to leave him staring at his reflection. Just one left, a pouting redhead, who licks her lips in anticipation as the lights dim. 
A holographic mist now rises. First resolving a proxy of Lincoln, naked, replicating his posture in the tank. Then the redhead is conjured, her buxom nudity glimpsed through the swirling mist. Lincoln proxy reaches out to stroke redhead proxy's breast. In the tank, Lincoln's fingers caress only the gel, his fingertips met by soft arcs of light - neurological charges, conducted by the gel, creating the sense of touch. They are known as "impulse arcs". Redhead proxy responds, dappling her lips across Lincoln proxy's neck. In the tank, impulse arcs flicker across Lincoln's throat, then down his chest, descending to more erogenous zones. Lincoln stiffens and closes his eyes, yielding to the sensation. 
The sensation engulfing him, Lincoln's brow starts to furrow. Not with ecstasy. Something darker. His eyes open, his pupils fixed in a black dilated stare. Resisting the artificiality, his face forming a sneer, tightening until... he slams h i s palm into the touchpad. The tank shakes. The proxies blink out. Lincoln stands mirrored in the etherwall. His hand, pressed against the glass in a posture of defiance. His reflection, warped and shuddering. 
31   INT . ELEVATOR SHAFT 
F r o m darkness grows a seed of light. Red light, pulsing to reveal the shaft, lined by lode-poles, here in triangulated relay. The polarity cradles a dark mass towards us. An elevator in descent. 
32   INT . DIRECTOR'S OFFICE 
Merrick   is at his console, working late. Off a buzz, he taps a button.   The door opens and an outsider enters - 40's, square set, hollow,   remote eyes. His hair is damp and he wears post-decon scrubs.   A USMC ring is visible on his finger. His name is SCHEER. 
MERRICK K a r l . . . Welcome back. 
S c h e e r pauses, his face twitching. Then sneezes violently. 
SCHEER I forgot how much I hate the air here. 
MERRICK J u s t a histamine reflex. Your system's readjusting to the sterile environment. 
SCHEER I t ' s the smell I hate. Empty. 
MERRICK Yes , well I cut short your leave for a reason. I take it you've been briefed? 
SCHEER ( s i t s , sniffing) O n e of our lab rats is missing. W i t h a dour look, Merrick slots his etherboard i n t o a dock. A proxy resolves over the console, quarter scale, spinning in 3D; male, African American, bull neck. Data etches across thin air: 
- - P R O D U C T ID: STARKWEATHER; FOUNDATION: II; GENERATION: DELTA; - - I N T E G R A T I O N DATE: 01/27/84 // CONTAINMENT REF: 102, SECTOR 4 
MERRICK His name is Starkweather Two-Delta. He dropped off the ether two days ago. At first we thought it was a system error. Then we found this in a garbage chute. 
He opens a drawer and pulls out an ethercuff. He hands it to Scheer who considers it remotely for a few seconds. Then- 
SCHEER D e l t a generation, huh? 
MERRICK That's right. 
SCHEER I t was a Delta the last time. 
MERRICK T h a t was entirely different. The product suffered a head injury. SCHEER What happened to this one? 
MERRICK We don't know. He just disappeared. SCHEER N o t easy to disappear. Unless he figured a way through the boundary. 
MERRICK He's a code two, Karl. A low functioner. SCHEER I f you ask me, it's a mistake giving them any functions at all. 
MERRICK The y don't function mentally, they don't function physically - you know that. 
SCHEER The n perhaps if you're going to breed lab rats, you should breed them tame. His look, albeit from a distance, throws a stone. Merrick hardens- 
MERRICK I f you bothered to read the clone laws, you'd realize we have no choice in the matter. The virtual humanity statutes accord them a set of freedoms. All we can do is prescribe the limits. And even those are subject to regulation. Scope of knowledge, range of activity, even their speech patterns. The law requires that what is of human origin be provided with human characteristics. 
SCHEER You mean, like fallibility? Merrick pauses. He's not going to take the bait. 
MERRICK The ether shows no attempts on the boundary. He's here, Karl. But for some reason, your men seem unable to find him. It's your job to contain the products. I'd like you to do it, okay? 
SCHEER A little sensitive, aren't we? 
MERRICK J u s t after Starkweather went missing, his sponsor placed an order. An order we can't fill. Damn right I'm sensitive. 
SCHEER A l r i g h t . How much time do I have? 
Merrick taps a button. A holoframe appears beside the proxy. Even in two dimensions, the face is identical. Just a different hairstyle and a gold earring. This is the face of The Sponsor. 
MERRICK J a m i l Starkweather . . . last week he sustained a hepatic trauma resulting in liver hemorrhage. In medical terms, we have maybe a few weeks. In legal terms, we're already o n borrowed time... ( a s Scheer rises to leave) An d Karl? 
MERRICK (cont'd) I don't want a godawful m e s s like the l a s t time. Minimal damage. Understood? 
33   INT . LINCOLN'S APARTMENT - PREDAWN 
The horizon. The green mountains cast black by the predawn glower. Lincoln sits rigidly hunched on his bed, still in yesterday's clothes, sleepless. He is staring fixedly out of the window, hungrily, as if inviting the outer darkness to come in. 
His gaze lowers onto his jacket, slung across the bed. He digs in the pocket. And pulls out the cigarette pack. For a moment he considers it. Then slowly, purposefully, he opens it. He slips a cigarette between his lips. And lights up. He leans back, taking a slow drag. Exhaling, he watches the smoke rise. His gaze rests on the etherscreen above, expectant. The cursor comes to life: 
- - S C R E E N I N G . . . CONTAMINANT DETECTED: ADVISING SANITATION CTRL 
R e f l e c t e d in the ceiling, Lincoln grins at his small victory. 34   INT . RESIDENTIAL BLOCK - SECTOR FOUR 
Q u i e t , empty at this hour. Just the drum of footfalls as Lincoln marches up the walkway, puffing his cigarette. He stops at the ethergate, regarding it as if for the first time. Then he stubs out his cigarette. And swipes his ethercuff o v e r the scanner. 
35   INT . THE ETHER GRID 
A blue dot blinks in space. We widen to establish its locus on a tomograph. Now building the boxes, the quadrants, the sectors. Revealing a vast, fully dimensional hologram of containment. It spins in the vaulted chamber like a giant geometrical phantom. 
36   INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM 
O v e r l o o k i n g the ether, like a studio control booth. Known as "Ethercon", it's also the title of the Censor at the console. Scheer stands over him, now in a white censor uniform with black chevrons on the sleeves, marking his seniority. He instructs- 
SCHEER R e v e r s e map. Crop to twelve hour segments. Then put up a sub-grid. 
T H E LOCKDOWN I N I T I A T E S : the lights shifting spectrum from white to ultraviolet, bathing the quadrant in a lambent purple haze-- 
S T A R K W E A T H E R : his eyes bulging with panic as he races up the walkway, straining for an ethergate a t the far end of the floor-- 
LINCOLN : his eyes charged with adrenaline, straining to close ground on his assailant; oblivious to the building noise of-- 
T H E LOCKDOWN: locks hissing, lights flashing, ripping up the row of frosted facades; sweeping past Lincoln and onward toward-- 
S T A R K W E A T H E R : the ripple of hissing locks rushing up on him, he pours on the pace, sneering with effort as he tries to outrace-- 
T H E LOCKDOWN: the ripple spearing ahead of him to the end of the floor; now banking across the ethergate a n d sealing the exit. 
S T A R K W E A T H E R : stalled by the realization he's trapped; he spins round, looking for another avenue of escape only to find-- 
LINCOLN: blindsiding h i s assailant with a headlong tackle; both men toppling over, hitting the floor with a bone-jarring thud-- 
S T A R K W E A T H E R : quick to recover, breaking lose of entanglement; now struggling to his feet, stumbling onward up the walkway-- 
LINCOLN : gets up to resume pursuit, then pauses, spotting his ethercuff, discarded on the ground. He looks up in confusion at-- 
S T A R K W E A T H E R : a short distance ahead, climbing over the walkway rail; launching himself off, into a seemingly suicidal plummet-- 
LINCOLN : leaning over the rail, seeing his assailant land safely on a crosswalk beneath, resuming his flight on the lower floor as- 
- B O O M - A GUNBLAST r i p s the air. A KEENING SOUND builds to a wail- - T H U D - LINCOLN JOLTS as something hits his shoulder, catching him off-balance, a stab of pain keeling him onto the rail -CLANG - 
LINCOLN SLUMPS INTO FG - TWO CENSORS converging like white ghosts from the purple haze - one reprimanding his recalcitrant cohort- 
CENSOR You asshole! You hooked the wrong one! He crouches to examine Lincoln. Blood is blossoming from a wound on his shoulder, jutting from which is a projectile. The censor presses its base and it snaps loose of its unintended target. 
N o w we see the projectile more clearly. A fat metal pellet, snub- n o s e d , finned at the tail by four metal teeth. On impact, the nose recesses to release a springload a n d the teeth snap forward to bite into the target. This device is known as a "hookhead". 
CENSOR J u s t a flesh wound. `Hit his head pretty hard. Possible concussion. ( i n s p e c t i n g Lincoln's pupils) T h i n k you can walk, buddy? 
Lincoln nods slightly. The censor unloops a tri-key f r o m his neck- 
CENSOR You see this? It'll get you past the lockdown. You're to report to The Medical Center. You understand? 
O f f Lincoln's blank stare, the censor presses the tri-key i n t o his palm. Then departs. Lincoln stays where he sits, still dazed from the concussion. Absently he watches the censors race off up the walkway, dissolving back into the purple haze as we- 
C U T TO: 
45   INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM S T A R K W E A T H E R RUNNING. Meeting white uniforms at every turn, zig- z a g g i n g o v e r crosswalks, down ramps. The rat in the maze, dumb to its inevitable destination. Widening, we see we are watching the action on etherview, racking and dollying like a deific e y e . 
E T H E R C O N (INTO HEADSET) E a s t side team hold position. Subject headed for the second floor crossramp. 
46   INT . GROUND FLOOR - RESIDENTIAL BLOCK C l o a k e d in shadow, Scheer listens to the play-by-play on headset. With a tap, he changes the channel, whispering to his squad- 
S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET) G i v e him some space. I have him. A N O T H E R ANGLE: Starkweather hits the deck running, sprinting up the avenue. In BG, Scheer steps forth, stopgun l e v e l l e d , aiming-- 
-BOOM- The flash of the muzzle, the shrill wail of the hookhead. 
- T H U D - Starkweather jolts as the shot hits him square in the back, arching as the hookhead b i t e s ; but he keeps on running- 
- B O O M - B O O M - B O O M - Scheer unleashes his ordnance, filling the air. 
- T H U D - T H U D - T H U D - Starkweather jolts from one, two, three more hits; hookheads b i t i n g , spraying blood; but he keeps on running. S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET) A l l clear. Flood the area. 
A N O T H E R ANGLE; Floor level, as between the tiles, tiny red lights start blinking, rippling forward in a wave. Known as "lode-pins" their small magnetic pulses accumulate into a low level stream. 
The hookheads c l a w e d in Starkweather's back also start blinking red. The invisible stream flowing beneath his feet, Starkweather feels its force. The duelling polarities stealing his traction. His run reducing to a slipsliding s t a g g e r . Then his feet leave the ground. He flails for a handhold. But there's nothing. The force lifts him a foot clear off the ground before balancing out to dangle him in mid-air, squirming about like a fish on a hook. 
A N O T H E R ANGLE; Scheer advances to reel in his catch. The stream bows before him, red lights blinking out. Until all that remains is the section where Starkweather hangs suspended. Scheer stops at its limit, looking up at him like some curious zoo exhibit. 
S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET) H o o d him, cuff him, patch the bleed. Then let's get him up to Level Three. A N O T H E R ANGLE: looking down from high above as the Censors move in on Starkweather. Scheer now walking away, tapping his headset- 
S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET) E t h e r c o n ? Send word to dispatch. Starkweather Two-Delta is secured. 
R E V E R S E ANGLE: Lincoln in CU, looking down. He has seen and heard all that has just passed. In his eyes, we see his daze clearing, consciousness coalescing, deepening. His pupils dilating into a deep and uncanny stare. What can only be described as a dawning. 47   INT . NUTRITION PLAZA - SECTOR FOUR - LATER 
N o w full but unusually quiet. Residents sit in whispered, anxious discourse. The news of the incident is spreading. Off a series of chimes, eyes turn to the glass wall, now pixellating i n t o an outsider's face - calm, official. THE COMMUNITY ANNOUNCER begins- 
COMMUNITY ANNOUNCER Good morning - this is a community bulletin... Following an incident in Sector Four earlier this morning, The Department of Sanitation is issuing an all-sector contamination warning... 
TRACKING the rapt concern of the residents, Ester among them. 
COMMUNITY ANNOUNCER The incident involved a resident found to be infected with a pathogen. While the risk is assessed, residents are advised to be aware of the symptoms. Should you experience aberrant levels of anxiety or witness it in others, immediately contact The Medical Center. 
48   INT . DIRECTOR'S OFFICE 
The proxy of Starkweather spins over the desk. Merrick regards i t with a frown. Scheer sits turning the ethercuff i n his fingers with a demeanor of cool curiosity. Underneath, he's rattled. 
SCHEER You want to tell me what's going on? 
MERRICK There's nothing going on, Karl. 
SCHEER I'm jaded. Not stupid. 
MERRICK What's your point? 
The footsteps are now coming back. Lincoln spins round. He finds a door. A lock panel. A moment of panic. Then he fumbles the tri- k e y f r o m his pocket, hurriedly slotting it into the lock panel. 
55   INT . THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DOOR - SECONDS LATER 
Lincoln waits, ear to the door, listening as the footsteps pass and fade out of earshot. Lincoln releases his breath in relief, calming a little, then frowning as he registers another sound. 
Very faint, rhythmic. He turns and looks around. The room is in partial shadow. To one side is a row of seats, to the other, a row of windows, covered by blinds, light creasing through. The sound repeats. Muffled. But now unmistakably THE CRY OF A BABY. 
56   INT . HARVEST ROOM 
A grid of bio-readouts, each square alive with graphs and digits. The familiar baseline of a cardiograph. A lever-arm mounted with an IV r e s e r v o i r , dangling tubes and wires onto the OR table. 
We see A DOCTOR and A MIDWIFE, in whose arms A NEWBORN BABY squirms and bawls. Lying on the table, we see THE MOTHER, her feet up in stirrups, deeply flushed and puffing from exertion. Marked by her crosshatch as an agnate, she has just given birth- 
THE AGNATE MOTHER May I hold her? 
THE DOCTOR We have to run a few tests on her first. In the meantime, I'm going to give you something to help you relax, okay? 
Off his smile, the agnate mother nods, anxiously watching the midwife wrap her baby in blanket. The doctor taps a button and watches the IV reservoir misting with a pale colored fluid. 
The cardiograph marks the drop as the fast-acting sedative takes effect. The agnate mother watches drowsily as the midwife takes her baby from the room. Then the cry of the newborn is shut out. J u s t the cardiograph now, the beeps evening out, the scart o f peaks shallowing a s the agnate mother falls asleep. The doctor taps a button. On the grid, the face of a DESK NURSE appears. 
THE DOCTOR I'm incubating the baby for 24 hours prior to transport. But go ahead and contact the sponsor. Tell her she has a beautiful baby girl. 
The nurse nods. The grid square goes blank. A pause. Then the doctor taps another button. Text appears. Reading it, he cites- 
THE DOCTOR Let the record show the sponsor has signed Clause 22 of The Basic Sponsor- s h i p Agreement. Initiate compliance. 
A light starts blinking. The doctor walks stiffly out of the room. The door hisses closed. The agnate mother is left alone. Sleeping peacefully, blind to the fluid now seeping into her IV. D e a f to the slowing beep of the cardiograph. The peaks of the baseline falling. Spacing, fading, slowing, slowing, until... The cardiograph flatlines. An d a sepulchral stillness falls. Our angle widens with the growing emptiness. The lifelessness. 
57   INT . OBSERVATION ROOM 
Lincoln looks down from above, eyes frozen in the slatted light. His fingers are trembling, rattling the blinds against the glass. 
58   INT . CORRIDOR 
Lincoln tumbles out of the door. He can't breathe, can't think, his mind is in overload. He stumbles around like a wounded animal. His focus suddenly and searingly r e t u r n s as he hears- 
DESK NURSE (O.S.) Starkweather ? Like the football player? 
59   INT . NURSES STATION - LEVEL THREE - CONTINUOUS 
A rotunda spoked by corridors. A console at its hub, manned by the desk nurse we saw earlier. The courier stands over her- 
THE COURIER That's right. Starkweather. 
DESK NURSE Still showing in surgery. Sorry. 
THE COURIER Honey, I got a bird on the pad and a storm moving in. How long's it gonna be? 
60   INT . ANOTHER OPERATING ROOM 
Another grid of readouts. Another cardiograph beeps. A spotlamp illuminates the OR table and STARKWEATHER TWO-DELTA - his face, slack with anesthesis, eyes rolling a little beneath the lids. The rest of him under a sheet, cut out over the belly, the flesh slit and parted by a clamp, framing a window into his innards. 
Standing over him, mid-operation, A SURGEON and SURGICAL TECH. Interrupted by a chime, the surgeon looks up at a screen, where a panel flashes: "PAGING". He cradles his bloody gloves and elbows a button. The face of the desk nurse resolves on screen- 
DESK NURSE (ON SCREEN) The courier's here for pickup. 
THE SURGEON Well he's going to have to wait a while. It took forever to put this one under. 
SURGICAL TECH (O.S.) Doctor... 
DESK NURSE (ON SCREEN) He's asking for an ETA. Said something about some kind of storm moving in. 
THE SURGEON For Christ's sake, is that my fault? Just find a way to stall him, okay? 
S U R G I C A L TECH (O.S.) Doctor. 
SURGEON What is it? 
SURGICAL TECH Subject's heart rate is spiking. 
SURGEON Not again. Boost the anaesthetic lev... 
Suddenly he's sprayed with blood a s the clamp springs loose from the stomach, clattering to the floor. He's frozen by shock as... 
Starkweather sits bolts upright. Dazed, he looks at the surgeon, the tech, then down at his wide-open stomach. Instinctively, he clutches it. Then, his mind assimilating the horror, he SCREAMS. Now launching off the operating table, the lever-arm swinging out, blindsiding t h e tech - tubes and wires snapping loose - instruments flying - Starkweather lunges for the doorway - the surgeon steps up to block him - only to be hurled aside... 
61   INT . CORRIDOR - LEVEL THREE 
THE BLARE OF AN ALARM. Starkweather, clumping down the corridor, clutching his open stomach, blood streaming down his legs. He's delirious, running nowhere, anywhere, running blind. Reaching the end of the corridor, he stops suddenly, seeing WHITE UNIFORMS. He doubles back up the corridor. Kicking at doors with bare feet, frantic for any means of escape. He spots a ventilator grid, slightly open. He jumps, reaching for it. Once, twice, then his feet slip from under him. He hits the floor with a damp splat. TWO CENSORS turn the corner, ready for action. But there is Starkweather, face-down in a starburst o f his own blood. 
CENSOR (INTO HEADSET) Yeah, no sweat, subject is secured. 
62   INT . DUCTING - MINUTES LATER 
POVCEILING VENTILATOR GRID. Looking down through the slits onto Starkweather directly beneath. He now has a loose white hood over his head. His wrists and ankles are bound by plastic cuffs. A loop of intestine plumps out from his belly. His weight is such that the Censors have to drag him away, leaving a bloodsmear o n the floor. His guttural whimpers are the only sign of life. 
CLOSEUP: Lincoln's face in part shadow, looking down. The gleam of his eyes as Starkweather disappears from view. Listening now, to those feeble whimpers, growing fainter, ever fainter until they disappear from earshot. Silence again. Emptiness. All that remains of Starkweather is a wending bloodsmear o n the floor. 
LINCOLN LUNGES AT THE CENSOR - ramming him - toppling him across the seats - knocking the stopgun f r o m his grasp - recoiling as-- 
THE CENSOR RETALIATES - driving a knee into his groin, doubling him over - then a knee to his head - THUDDING INTO HIS SKULL- 
ESTER Don't hurt him! 
ESTER RUNS UP grabbing at the white uniform, trying to restrain him - the censor swats her blindly - hitting her in the stomach-- LINCOLN SPINS ROUND at the sound of Ester's yelp - only to be roundhoused b y the censor - the blow sending him to the floor-- 
Ester DOUBLED OVER - wincing at the pain - clutching her belly instinctively, protectively - an ominous scowl knotting her face- THE CENSOR PUNISHING LINCOLN - kicking him down the aisle - then suddenly hearing a noise from behind - turning to face it as -- 
- B O O M - A GUNBLAST R I P S THE AIR. The brief wail of a hookhead. 
- T H U D - THE CENSOR RECOILING - lurching as the hookhead b i t e s - starting to gag - blood jetting from his neck - a hookhead c l a w e d into his jugular - gurgling, collapsing to the floor-- 
Ester STANDING FROZEN - holding the stopgun - seeing Lincoln now getting up - she drops the stopgun l i k e it's on fire, aghast- 
ESTER Lincoln? 
L i k e she's asking him what she did... Silence - the rasp of the censor, blood foaming - another sound - FOOTFALLS. Lincoln goes to the door - an IMMINENT MASS OF WHITE UNIFORMS. He grabs Ester- 
LINCOLN RUN!!! 
67   INT . FOYER - THE COMMUNITY CENTER 
CENSORS BURSTING IN - led by Scheer, pushing through into the main hall - the statue of Dr. Sanger looking serenely down-- 
68   INT . MAINTENANCE CORRIDOR - BEHIND THE COMMUNITY CENTER 
A HISS OF DEPRESSURIZATION - a pressure door swings open - Lincoln and Ester tumbling through - running up the maintenance corridor-- 
69   INT . COMMUNITY CENTER - MOMENTS LATER 
CENSORS FANNING OUT - sweeping the hall, stopguns r e a d y - Scheer finds the fallen Censor - crouches to examine him, then- 
SCHEER Somebody get someone down here! 
A Censor splits off to join him, tapping his headset - Scheer rises again - in his eyes, detachment yields to cold intensity-- 
70   INT. VARIOUS CORRIDORS - CONTAINMENT INFRASTRUCTURE 
THE CENSORS: flooding through into the maintenance corridor, in their white uniforms, they seem like a swarm of antibodies-- 
LINCOLN AND ESTER: deeper in, at another pressure door, fumbling the trikey i n t o the lock. A tense second. The lock hisses open-- 
SCHEER : pushes through the opening gap of another pressure door, taking the lead, his Censors surging up in his wake -- 
LINCOLN AND ESTER: meeting an intersection, veering at random, running blind, running deeper into the faceless labyrinth-- 
SCHEER : catching up, hitting the intersection, pausing to split his squad in each direction - white uniforms dispersing-- 
LINCOLN AND ESTER: reaching another pressure door. Footsteps audible. Lincoln jams the tri-key i n t o the lock. And waits. The seconds pass. But the door doesn't open. Lincoln looks around for another exit. Ester looks at him in mounting panic then-- THE PRESSURE DOOR OPENS: not onto a corridor but an elevator car. Pulling Ester inside, Lincoln finds an array of buttons. His fingers hovers, uncertain which to press. So he punches all of them, stabbing madly, trying to prompt the door to close. SCHEER : turns a corner, seeing his quarry at the far end of the corridor, he gathers pace. The elevator is closing but he doesn't break stride. He deftly taps his headset, opening a channel to-- 
SCHEER (ON HEADSET) Ethercon! The elevator - override it! Do you read me? Bring it back down! 
71   INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM 
Ethercon is working the console keys like a madman. His gaze flitting to a subgrid o f the complex, spinning the angles, navigating the mesh of lines. His voice comes apologetically- 
ETHERCON (INTO HEADSET) You're off the grid, sir. Give me a second. Can you tell me where you are? 
He recoils at the blaring volume of the response. 
72   INT . CORRIDOR - OUTSIDE THE ELEVATOR 
Scheer stands with his Censors, poised, watching the panel chart the elevator's descent. A light flashes and the doors open. They level their stopguns o n . . . nothing. The elevator is empty. 
SCHEER (INTO HEADSET) Foundation Levels - all of them. Lock them down. Access only on my command. 
73   INT . FOUNDATION LEVEL 
A dead acoustic. A corridor paved with sound proofing panels. It ends at a pressure door, where Lincoln and Ester now arrive. Lincoln looks back to the elevator at the other end. No going back. He slots the tri-key into the lock. The door hisses open. 
74   INT . FOUNDATION CHAMBERS 
Amber light. The sound of slow bubbling. Lincoln and Ester pause to adjust to the gloom. They are in a hall of windows. Ester is the first to venture forth, as if drawn, to the nearest window. 
Behind the glass is a foundation tank. Bubbling with viscous fluid, laced with various tubes pulsing matter to and fro. The tubes connect to a form. A human form, an adult form but curled foetally. I t is known as a "nascent". In this tank is a female nascent, shifting slightly, causing Ester to gasp. The nascent registers the noise, turning its head. Its eyelids are closed but its eyeballs move, questioning. A slight furrow appears on its crosshatched brow. Ester recoils in sudden horror, perhaps remembering on some deep level that this is where she came from. 
LINCOLN Ester ! Come on! 
Spurred to action, Ester follows Lincoln onward up the hall. Still conscious of movement all around, of nascents stirring at the sound of their footfalls like the ripples of a nightmare. 
75   INT . FOUNDATION CHAMBER 
A STOPGUN n o s e s through the door. Followed by Scheer moving in silence, honed. How much time has passed is unclear. He signals his censors to split off. Tracking Scheer's advance, we INTERCUT: ANOTHER FOUNDATION CHAMBER: Censors making their sweep. Strobes of light from an armature mechanism moving up the row of tanks. It angles to project a grid across each nascent's face, then fires a short laser burst, searing a crosshatch into the brow. ANOTHER FOUNDATION CHAMBER: another contingent moves up another row of foundation tanks. The nascents within have cables plugged into their ears, filaments pulsing. The nascents a r e in a posture of rigor, sinews straining as they accept the data impression. 
RETURNING TO SCHEER as he reaches the end of the first chamber. No further access, just a continuing wrap of foundation tanks. He pauses, confused for a second. One of the censors comes up- 
CENSOR Nothing , sir. No sign. 
97   EXT . SCRAPYARD - DUSK 
The porch light comes on, casting the scrapyard in grades of light and shadow. Ozzie steps out onto the porch, lighting a cigarette. His visitor hovering at the threshold, he offers the pack. Lincoln steps out and takes one. Ozzie lights it for him- 
OZZIE Yer girlfriend sure is pretty. 
His visitor looks at him curiously. Ozzie misinterprets that he's said something out of turn. Time to change the subject- 
OZZIE So what's with them tattoos, huh? 
He taps his forehead. Lincoln fingers his crosshatch, suddenly aware of it now and suspicious of the question. Ozzie palliates- 
OZZIE Hey , in the eye of the beholder, right? Now this place, this is beautiful to me. This is my place. I own it. `May not look like much but you'd be surprised. C'mon, lemme show you... 
Ozzie moseys into the scrapyard, beckoning his visitor. Lincoln hesitates, then follows him, sensing it's better to play along. 
OZZIE M o s t a t h i s heavy stuff's industrial scrap. Comes in from all over. Easy way round the recyclin' l a w s . Me, I sell it on to the boondock b o y s for meltdown. Other stuff, I pick up at the scrap markets. Fix it up, `fetches a price. 
The y reach a vehicle shell. A rust-pocked chassis, canted on its axle, we might recognize it as an automobile from our own era. 
OZZIE Fossil fuel transport. This piece o' junk's a collector's item. All that Age of the Wheel nostalgia, "elegant era of transport" bullshit. I find the parts, she's as good as solid gold. 
Ozzie pats his investment and moves to another rusted metal pile. Steepled by rail tracks, we see elevator sheaves, tension cables. 
OZZIE Now this here's got a colorful history. Came in from this ol' g o v e r n m e n t bunker out in the valley. `Got shut down way back. Then this new outfit took over, stripped the place out. I guess they're doin' s o m e more remodelling cause I just had `em in again the other day... ( a tug of smoke, reflective) Hump`n dump crew. Nice fellas. 
Lincoln frowns. The term is familiar. The taste of smoke, a hint. But his memory has been clouded by trauma. Ozzie reads his face- 
OZZIE You okay there? 
Lincoln looks at him, something breaking the clouds. A sense of danger, indistinct. Suddenly cautious, he stubs his cigarette- 
LINCOLN I'm going to check on my friend. 
98   INT . FRONT ROOM - THE SHACK - DUSK 
A front room turned into a front office. Piles of paper teeter atop junk furniture. A bankers lap we might recognize from our own era glows over a desk where Ozzie is rummaging, looking for something. He stops to peer through and check on his visitors- 
The woman still lies asleep on the sofa. The man is sitting beside her armchair, head bowed, seemingly plunged in thought. O z z i e resumes rummaging to find a crumpled delivery note. He reviews it for a moment. Then quickly clears away some more papers to uncover a keypad device. It is known as a "holocom". He taps a key and a holoframe resolves. Then taps in some digits from the delivery note. The holoframe snows with static. Then a crosshatch insignia appears, spinning in 3D: 
RECORDED VOICE (ON HOLOCOM) Welcome to The Sanger Institute. If you know your party's extension, press... 
LINCOLN (O.S.) What are you doing? 
Ozzie jerks round to find his visitor suddenly standing there. He fumbles on the holocom keypad and the crosshatch blinks out. 
OZZIE Nuthin . I wasn't doin nuthin . 
Lincoln frowns, the sense of danger becoming more distinct. Ozzie reads his visitor's troubled expression, realizing- 
OZZIE I knew it... them clothes... them weird tattoos... I mean, I heard stories from those guys but I never... 
O f f his visitor's frown, Ozzie bites his tongue. He's cornered in this cramped space with a freak of science. Time to backpedal- 
OZZIE N o t that I believe `em... buncha c r a z y stories... nuthin t o do with you... 
He chuckles feebly. But his visitor just stares back at him, pupils dilated and dark, somehow inhuman. Time to wriggle out- 
OZZIE W h a d d y a s a y we just forget about it, huh? How about I go getcha a beer? 
He makes a move past but his visitor doesn't budge. Lincoln senses danger in this old man, whose fear is now manifest- 
OZZIE What e v e r you want... Just take it... Whaddya w a n t . . . ? You want money...? 
His visitor frowns. Ozzie quickly unlocks a cashbox. He grabs some colored plastic cards and offers them like meat to a lion. 
OZZIE I t ' s all I got... Take it... just please... just don't hurt me... 
His visitor takes a blue card, inspecting it like a curiosity. Then steps closer. Ozzie shrinks back. An ominous moment, then- 
LINCOLN " O u t of state" - how do I get there? 
O f f Ozzie's cowering and confused look, we - C U T TO: 
99    EXT . SKY OVER THE DESERT - NIGHT 
F r o m darkness grows a seed of light. The whisper flies low and quiet, its spotlight roving the undulant desert. Now picking out metal glints as it banks over a scrapyard. Now training its beam on a figure in the dust whirl beneath. Ozzie, his hair flying wild, gesticulating madly. The whisper follows his directions, nosing onwards, its spotlight corrugating across the red rocks. 
100   EXT . SHUTTLE STOP - NIGHT 
I n the middle of nowhere, a canopied platform. Not unlike the sub- w a y platform, it borders a deeply trenched lodeway. A wave of dust rolls in, swelled by the whisper, landed beyond. It seems to bring Scheer to the platform. He scans around for a clue, a footprint perhaps. But somehow he already knows. He looks up the lodeway, eyes honing. The deep black line stretches far into the night. 
101   INT . THE GLASS VILLA - NIGHT 
Silence. Still. Sanger sits nursing a cup of herb tea. Crowne sits smoking. Stubs in the ashtray speak of long hours waiting. The still is broken as Merrick emerges from an adjacent room. Sanger and Crowne look up, expectant. Merrick closes the door with slow care. Then he faces them, a grim tenor in his voice- 
MERRICK Bad news. 
102   EXT . PHOENIX - NIGHT 
H O F S T E T T E R T A K E S HIS CHANCE TO RUN - now scrambling against the stampede - Diggs disentangles himself and levels his weapon - the stampede parting - throwing themselves to the ground as-- 
- B O O M - DIGGS FIRES - the scattershot hits Hofstetter a s he flees up some steps - peppering his leg - sparks off metal as Diggs keeps firing - his weapon now earned the name of a "rainmaker". H O F S T E T T E R R E A C H E S A CATWALK - his leg dragging, numbing from t h e tranquilizer cores - the catwalk dead-ends - blind panic now - He ducks under the rail, reaching for the dome - finding a precarious handhold, he swings across - trying to climb -- 
D I G G S COMES UP BENEATH - looking up, grinning - the pathetic sight of Hofstetter - one leg useless - clinging to the dome like a fly trapped under glass - as Burdon goes to recover him - 
DIGGS Don't bother. He'll drop by himself. B u r d o n pulls out some handcuffs and stands waiting. Diggs returns to the booth. Pouring out two tequila shots, he grins at Scheer - 
DIGGS N o w . . . where were we? 
104   EXT . THE DESERT - MORNING 
S u n l i g h t blinks off a chain of carriages, travelling the trench of a lodeway. The overnight shuttle slits through the desert. 
105   INT . PASSENGER CAR - MORNING The sun is a muted orb behind polarized glass. Lincoln stares out of the window at the bleak new world blurring past. He's wearing Ozzie's ballcap o v e r his crosshatch, his former clothes discarded for some of the old man's ill-fitting denims. Perhaps a disguise or perhaps just to shed the memory. He glances across at Ester, dressed likewise, her hair teased to cover her crosshatch. She's dozing, head rested on the glass. A TICKET COLLECTOR comes up- 
TICKET COLLECTOR Tickets... Lincoln looks at the man in uniform, uncertain what he wants. The ticket collector shakes his head. These two look like deadbeats. 
T I C K E T COLLECTOR (CONT'D) A d u l t fare is forty five currency units. Do you have the money, sir? 
Lincoln assimilates. Money. The word is familiar. He pulls out the blue plastic card. The man in uniform looks encouraged. He gives him the card, watching him slot it into a handheld device, which briefly flashes, then the card is returned. Lincoln sees a strip at the top is now transparent, like a depleted reservoir. He assimilates. Not so different from the transactions in the world below. Then he notices Ester is awake and is looking at him. Her bright eyes, dim and troubled, somehow accusatory. 
LINCOLN I t ' s going to be okay, Ester. 
ESTER (faint) Is it? 
LINCOLN We just need to get out of state. 
Ester , disconsolate, looks out of the window. In her gaze, the forlorn air of a hatchling fallen from the nest. Lincoln watches her, knowing her troubles and knowing that he cannot relieve them. 
106   EXT . PHOENIX - DAY 
The skyline stands reprised in daylight. A glimmering citadel. 
107   EXT . SHUTTLE STOP - PHOENIX - DAY 
P a s s e n g e r s climb the steps from an underground gloom. Lincoln and Ester with them, jostled by the more certain flow. They cross the portal onto the street and stop, dazzled by the sunlight. Only to be dazzled again by the sudden, stunning prospect of the city... 
F i r s t there's the quality of light, a burning white, perhaps from depleted ozone, depicting everything in a surreal shimmer. Then there's the towers, darkly crystalline, facets of polarized glass rising to domes and spires, like monolothic f i n g e r s reaching for the sky. The traffic flashing past, the chassis identifiable as trucks, taxis, compacts, sedans, streamlined in a nautical trim, hull runners in place of wheels. The sound of claxons, more like fog horns than car horns. Then there's the street itself, a six- l a n e lodeway, lanes marked with buoys, bobbing around on cables. 
The graceful arcs of pedestrian bridges at the intersections. The citizens, strange hairstyles, fashions, all wearing sunglasses. Even to us it's a wondrous sight. The urbanism, the grandeur, as if here in the heart of southwest, Manhattan has met Venice. 
V O I C E (O.S.) He y , man, spare a little green? 
A w e interrupted, Lincoln and Ester look around. Slouched by the street exit is A HOBO with a mangy dog. He grins toothlessly- 
T H E HOBO A i n ' t eaten in two days, have we, boy? 
Lincoln and Ester step back as the dog rises to greet them. Tail wagging, it noses forward, sniffing. Then, abruptly, drops its tail and backs off, whining. Lincoln and Ester likewise back off. Both sides have just discovered a new species. The hobo pets his whining canine, watching the strangers walk off with curiosity. 
108   EXT . STREET - DAY 
The sunlight flares off passing vehicles, hypnotic. The faces of pedestrians flash past. Lincoln and Ester wander in thrall up the street. Everywhere new sights, new curiosities bombard them... 
The storefronts, mysterious recesses behind polarized glass. The glass, alive with pixellated g r a p h i c s , marquees: "Temps! Temps! New Tech Opportunities!" - "Beauty Therapy! Manicures, Dermals, Follicle Grafts!" - "Discount Legal Service! Class Actions Only!" 
H o l o f r a m e b i l l b o a r d s loom over the street, huge shimmering panels like phantom jumbotrons, commercials playing on a loop: - - A businessman in a conference room, shrinking from a fierce negotiation; the scene replayed with the same businessman, now on his feet, stabbing his finger angrily in the air; a pill bottle in CU, a text super "Combatrine! The Aggression Enhancer" - - A teenager bemused by his homework: his parents escorting him into a clinic; the teenager hooded by an electronic dome; his parents clapping; the teenager smiling as he accepts a diploma; a text super "Intellex: Data Impression For A New Generation" 
Lincoln suddenly looks round, realizing Ester is gone from his side. He scans the sea of faces. Then spots her stepping through a doorway. Over the threshold is a holoform: a pig with wings, circled by the legend "Hog Heaven! Home Of The True Hamburger". 
109   INT . HOG HEAVEN - DAY 
F a s t food outlets have evidently changed little. Promotional posters in 3D: "Ham Slam", "Porker Forkers", "Bacon Blitz". 
Service counter, seating area. Ester is looking around like Alice In Wonderland. Lincoln comes up, out of breath, edgy- 
LINCOLN I told you to stay with me. 
ESTER ( i n n o c e n t , plaintive) I'm hungry. 
LINCOLN O k a y . Okay... 
He nods, realizing he is too. He plants Ester in a seat and looks around. People stand in line transacting, receiving food trays. Not unlike nutrition plaza. Lincoln ventures to the counter. He offers the blue card hopefully. THE SERVICE CLERK looks at him- 
T H E SERVICE CLERK A r e you gonna tell me what you want? 
LINCOLN ( b e a t , no other reference) What are my options? 
T H E SERVICE CLERK K n o c k yourself out, buddy. 
He indicates a menu above. Lincoln assimilates, looking up at the menu. Understanding now, his face lifts to almost a smile. It's the first time he's been given an unrestricted choice. 
110   INT . SEATING AREA - A FEW MINUTES LATER 
Lincoln returns to Ester with a tray of food and drink. She's staring off again, distant. He puts a burger and drink cup in front of her. She seems not to notice. He tries to engage her- 
LINCOLN I asked the man how to get to the terminal. He said it's not far. 
But Ester just keeps staring, her brow now furrowing as A LITTLE GIRL skips past, maybe 11, sipping a soda. Now Lincoln sees her too and is transfixed. Now the little girl notices the strangers, staring at her. She hurries onward, uncomfortable. Lincoln and Ester's eyes follow. It's the first time they've seen a child. 
B U R D O N WATCHING from the sidewalk where Lincoln and Ester first dropped, scouring the trench for a sight of them. Now he spots them, climbing up onto the sidewalk the far side of the street. 
D i g g s now arrives at his side, sweating, out of breath. Now seeing their quarry take off up the far side of the street, he turns to his lumberous p a r t n e t , fury mixed with incredulity- 
DIGGS Why the fuck d i d n ' t you go after them?! 
B u r d o n just looks at him, displaying the metal brace on his fore- a r m . Diggs, out of sheer frustration, gives him a pounding shove- 
DIGGS Fuck! 
115   EXT . ALLEY - DAY The refuge of shadow. The alley is divided by a lodeway and the walls on each side are jutted with dumpsters. Lincoln and Ester run up the narrowed strip of sidewalk, forced into single file. 
A huge shape looms ahead. A garbage vehicle known as a "scow". Like a leviathan spreading its tentacles, the scow's tube-arrays dock with the dumpsters and start sucking the contents out. 
Lincoln glances back to find Ester has stopped and is cringing away from the tentacled monster. He returns to her, his eyes flicking around, aware that their real predators are close- 
LINCOLN We have to keep going. 
He takes Ester's hand, drawing her onward. But Ester recoils, shaking off his grip. Now he looks at her more closely. She's panting, shuddering, fraught with trauma. Her voice is haunted- 
ESTER P l e a s e . . . Please, I want to go back... She shrinks into the shadows, shaking her head. The hatchling wanting to return to the nest. Lincoln meets her eye, deeply- 
LINCOLN T h o s e men - that's what they want too. Ester holds his gaze, chest heaving. Then looks back towards the alley mouth. Her fingers reach for her belly, clawing a little. Then her eyes lower, assimilating, reason reasserting its heavy grip. Lincoln senses her turmoil. His voice is soft but sturdy- 
LINCOLN We have to keep going, Ester. 
Ester looks up at him again. The forlorn air seems to have faded. Her eyes, grimly set. Her face, a little haggard. Older somehow. She takes Lincoln's hand and together they head off up the alley. 
116   EXT . ALLEY - MOMENTS LATER 
The alley mouth darkens as a vehicle turns off the street. The grey cutter moves through the shadows, prowling and shark-like. 
117   INT . CUTTER - DRIVING 
The drone of resistors. The throbbing glow of the drive console, a panoply of instrumentation. Burdon steers in silence, Diggs beside him, edgy, intent, combing the shadows for their quarry. 
DIGGS S u n n a v a b i t c h ! What the fuck d o we do now, huh? They could be anywhere... 
BURDON We go back to the office and run `em. 
DIGGS A s what? John and Jane Doe? 
BURDON We ask the guy. 
DIGGS Y e a h , let's tell him we couldn't hack it in kindergarten. See how long him and his ten platinum stick around. 
He fires a barbed look. Burdon absorbs this, unflinched, thinking- 
BURDON I t was blue, right? 
DIGGS What? 
BURDON The y were using a blue currency card. 
118   EXT . STREET - DAY 
Lincoln and Ester walk up the street. Wary of attention, they go with the flow of figures, eyes peeled for predators. The sights of the city now seem hostile. Faces flash past, dead-eyed in sun- g l a s s e s . Traffic rushes like steel rapids. Storefronts construct a black wall. Holoframe b i l l b o a r d s loom, mocking, half-noticed: 
- - A woman in a bathroom, adjusting her sexy neglige; a crack in the door shows a man in bed, waiting; the woman closes the door and picks up what looks like a toothpaste tube; she arches her eyebrow; "F.I.G. F e m i n i n e Impulse Gel... Because who needs him?" - - A cemetery under a grim overcast sky; suddenly a frisbee flies across frame; an old woman, dressed like a teenager, catches it; she tosses it to an old man dressed likewise; a text super "Death Sucks!", a sting, "New Gaza Healthcare: Your Life Is Our Life." Lincoln and Ester stop at the corner. They look around, blindly, no coordinates, no frame of reference. Urban canyons, identical, gordian a n d chasmic. P a s s i n g figures jostle. Then Lincoln spots something across the street. It looks like an over-sized phone booth. Its beacon flashes; "C.I.N. - CITY INFORMATION NETWORK." 
119   INT . CIN BOOTH - DAY 
A flourish of music greets Lincoln and Ester as they enter. The fanfare conjures a holoform i n mid-air. A cartoon rattlesnake, benignly rendered, welcomes them with a clownish, fanged smile: 
THE SNAKE H i there! I'm Tattletail! What e v e r you want to know, wherever you want to go, I got the answers! Let's look at the menu! 
A set of text frames appear: "Residential Listings", "Business Listings", "Transport Listings", "Hotel Listings". Lincoln assimilates. The terminologies are not unfamiliar. 
THE SNAKE (CONT'D) N o w let's make a selection! 
LINCOLN ( b e a t , venturing) Transport... THE SNAKE O k a y ! Let me open that directory for you! I'll be with you in two shakes! 
The snake rattles accordingly and coils in a holding pattern. Then a tomographic map of the city appears. A red dot plants itself under a text flag "You Are Here!". Then other red dots scatter across the map, each flagging with transportation icons. 
120   INT. CUTTER - STREETS - DRIVING - DAY 
B u r d o n steers calmly, scanning the streets. Diggs impatiently bashes the keys of a holocom on the drive console. A holoframe hovers, snowed with static. Then a secretary's face appears - sagging, older, primped and painted young. Her name is JANEEN- 
J A N E E N (ON HOLOCOM) D i g g s & Burdon Bond Agency. 
DIGGS J a n e e n , where the fuck have you been? 
J A N E E N (ON HOLOCOM) B e a u t y therapy. I got a date tonight. 
DIGGS O h , Jesus... Listen, I want you to punch into the currency stream for me. Sweep for blue card transactions. 
J A N E E N (ON HOLOCOM) You're kidding me, right? You have any idea how long that's going to take? 
DIGGS I want serial numbers, batched a n d cross-referenced. Start from Union Station and work your way out... 
D I G G S (ON RADIO) P i e c e of cake, Burdie. J a n e Doe's in the bag. Keep an eye out for John-Boy. 
Ester looks around in panic. Faces turn but none of them are Lincoln's. Diggs confronts the spectators, flashing a badge - 
DIGGS Bond recovery... state license. 
He marches his female quarry towards the exit. Now she starts to struggle and he jerks her back, slapping a cuff onto her wrist- 
DIGGS Play nice, little girl. Now you want to tell me where your boyfriend is? 
LINCOLN (O.S.) Behind you. 
DIGGS What? 
- T H U D - LINCOLN HAMMERS HIS FIST into the pale man as he turns - dropping him, flat-on-his-ass - pulling Ester away from him - D I G G S JERKS OUT THE RAINMAKER - quick to his feet - more insulted than hurt - targeting his quarry - who suddenly duck down as-- 
- B O O M - DIGGS FIRES - A WOMAN SCREAMS - the Mexican woman - her face, peppered with tranquilizer core - her baby starts crying-- Ester FROZEN - horrified by the screaming woman - the bloody, slack grimace - the baby bawling - Lincoln dragging her down- 
- B O O M - THE BLAST OF THE THUNDERBOLT - Burdon positioned behind them - narrowly missing his target - hitting the partition wall - - C R A S H - THE PARTITION WALL EXPLODES in a blinding electrical discharge - shattering into a sudden TEMPEST OF GLASS SHARDS - 
LINCOLN AND ESTER SPIN ROUND to see the pale man retargeting - the dark giant reloading - exit blocked, they lunge towards -- T H E PARTITION WALL - kicking through the hole in the glass - Ester's last glimpse of the screaming woman - the howling baby - 
130   EXT . BUS DEPOT - NIGHT 
LINCOLN AND ESTER LEAP OUT onto the embarcadero - running - faces blur past - liners flash by with glaring halogens-- 
D I G G S LEAPS OUT AFTER THEM - rainmaker poised - the embarcadero g l u t t e d with passengers - he can't get a bead on his quarry-- LINCOLN AND ESTER VAULTING over the scattered luggage - the crowd thinning - the canopy opening onto the street beyond-- 
D I G G S RIGHT ON THEIR TAIL - people screaming, parting as they see his weapon - the firing line clearing - he levels aim and-- 
M E T R O PD OFFICER (O.S.) M e t r o PD!      Drop it! 
DIGGS I'm a bond agent! 
M E T R O PD OFFICER I said drop the fucking w e a p o n ! 
D i g g s sees his quarry now escaping. With a scowl, he complies. He laces his fingers, tapping his earpiece in the process- 
D I G G S (INTO RADIO) N o r t h b o u n d on Third. Get `em, Burdie - and take off the fucking g l o v e s . . . 
C U T TO: 131   EXT . STREET - NIGHT 
T H E GREY CUTTER VEERS ROUND A CORNER - Burdon at the wheel - his quarry visible ahead - he jams the throttle - revs rising - 
LINCOLN AND ESTER SPRINT UP THE SIDEWALK - disorientation - the sudden diaspora o f lights and darkness - the sharp acoustics - 
T R A F F I C SWERVING - CLAXONS B L A R I N G - the cutter hurtling up the street, relentlessly - its halogen eyes, burning, growing - 
LINCOLN AND ESTER RACING FOR THE END OF THE BLOCK - towards a pedestrian bridge - trying to outpace the cutter - 
T H E GREY CUTTER CLOSING - Burdon punching a button - the side window slides open - he levels his thunderbolt, angling a shot- 
LINCOLN AND ESTER VEER LEFT - up onto the pedestrian bridge - rising above the traffic - claxons b l a r i n g beneath as -- 
T H E GREY CUTTER PLOUGHS INTO THE INTERSECTION - banking into a u- t u r n - vehicles braking to avoid collision - LIGHTS, CLAXONS - 
LINCOLN AND ESTER - turmoil raging behind them - a glimpse of the cutter regaining pursuit - Lincoln sees an opening ahead-- 
132   EXT . ALLEY - NIGHT 
LINCOLN PULLS ESTER INTO THE SHADOWS - the sidewalk narrowing - they run onward, glancing off dumpsters - DULL BOOMS OF METAL - A FLOOD OF HALOGENS - the cutter banking sharply into the alley - pouring on the speed - the quarry trapped in its headlights-- 
LINCOLN AND ESTER - nowhere to run - THE LIGHTS GROWING - THE RISING DRONE OF RESISTORS - Lincoln sees another opening -- 
133   EXT. PEDESTRIAN ALLEY - NIGHT 
LINCOLN PULLS ESTER INTO THE DARKNESS - a narrow access, barely lit, hard to see - a sudden dead-end - they SLAM INTO A BARRIER-- 
A CHAINLINK F E N C E - the links shuddering - Lincoln looks up and sees it's scalable - claws into the links - STARTS CLIMBING- 
Ester TRYING TO CLIMB - rattled by coughing - fighting to breathe - her limbs shaking - her muscles failing - then-- 
- B O O M - A BLINDING ELECTRICAL DISCHARGE - SUDDENLY THE FENCE IS ALIVE WITH ELECTRICITY - BURNING FINGERS JITTER ACROSS THE LINKS- 
LINCOLN AT THE TOP OF THE FENCE - jolted by the sudden shock - muscles in reflex - falling - landing the far side of the fence-- 
Ester STILL CLIMBING - the jolt instantly toppling her back - landing the near side of the fence - more rattled than hurt -- 
B U R D O N RUNNING TOWARDS THEM - thunderbolt smoking from the shot- LINCOLN ON THE FAR SIDE OF THE FENCE - recovering from the fall-- 
Ester ON THE NEAR SIDE OF THE FENCE - cowering, coughing - 
B U R D O N JERKS HER UP BY THE HAIR - like a rapacious viking - he looks through the fence at Lincoln - sniffing her, almost bestial- 
BURDON G o ahead. I'll look after her. 
LINCOLN ' S EYES FLICKERING DARKLY - jaw clenching - the sense of danger urging him to run - but Ester is in the giant's grips - 
Ester CLAWING TO BREAK FREE - coughing, rasping - her fingers snag on the giant's arm-brace - TUGGING WITH ALL HER STRENGTH-- 
LINCOLN The man, the man up there. Who is he? 
PEDESTRIAN What planet `you been living on? That's the Juggernaut, brother. 
LINCOLN The juggernaut... 
PEDESTRIAN Jamil "The Juggernaut" Starkweather - highest rushing total in the league. `Least till that injury blew out his gut. Now the doctors are saying he'll be back on his feet next season. Those fuckers sure can work miracles, huh? 
Lincoln doesn't respond. The pedestrian shrugs and heads on, writing him off. Lincoln lingers, staring up at the billboard. 
140   INT . CIN BOOTH - NIGHT 
The flourish of music greets Lincoln as he enters. The cartoon rattlesnake appears and smiles his clownish, fanged smile: 
THE SNAKE Hi there! I'm Tattletail! What e v e r you want to know, wherever you want to go, I got the answers! Let's look at the menu! 
The set of text frames appears: "Residential Listings", "Business Listings", "Transport Listings", "Hotel Listings". 
THE SNAKE N o w let's make a selection! 
A heavy pause. Lincoln's voice comes with a slight tremor. 
LINCOLN Residential... 
THE SNAKE Please give me the name. 
LINCOLN Starkweather... 
THE SNAKE Okay! Let me find that listing for you! I'll be with you in two shakes! 
The snake rattles and coils. Then a headshot a p p e a r s with the face of Jamil Starkweather , scaled across with a red line. 
THE SNAKE Starkweather , Jamil... I'm sorry! This listing is blocked from the directory! 
Lincoln stands, darkly intent on the face. Now irrefutably the same face he saw in his life below. The snake shakes its rattle- 
THE SNAKE You want me to find another listing? Lincoln looks at the snake, flicking its tongue, coiling. 
F A D E TO BLACK. 
141   EXT . DOWNTOWN STREET - MORNING 
A downtrodden neighborhood. The buildings look like remnants from our own era. A scruffy man slouches up to a gated storefront. He slots a key into a lock panel and the gate rolls up, squealing. We widen to a vehicle parked kerbside. A familiar grey cutter. 
142   INT . STORE - MORNING 
L i g h t s flicker on to disclose a gunshop. The array of firearms a s fathomless as their purpose. The scruffy gunshop o w n e r slouches inside. Diggs and Burdon enter on his heels. He yawns at them- 
G U N S H O P OWNER We ain't open for another hour. 
DIGGS Y e a h , well we ain't in the market. 
G U N S H O P OWNER E v e r y o n e ' s in the market, pal. One end of the barrel or the other... 
DIGGS We ' r e chasing up a currency record from last night. These two ring a bell? D i g g s displays two digital slides. The owner pauses, suspicious. 
G U N S H O P OWNER What are you? Cops? Lawyers? D i g g s answers by jerking out the rainmaker. The twin barrels aimed at his head, the gunshop o w n e r loses his cool a little- 
G U N S H O P OWNER H i m , I remember... Came in just before closing... wanted a shooter but didn't have no ID... settled for one of these. 
He displays a HUNTING KNIFE, unsheathing it, showing the blade. 
DIGGS Did he give you a name? 
G U N S H O P OWNER No. 
DIGGS Did he say where he was going? G U N S H O P OWNER No. 
D i g g s cocks the hammer. The owner flinches. Then, off the knife- 
G U N S H O P OWNER The r e was one thing. Kinda w e i r d . He wanted to know how to use it... 
143   EXT . APARTMENT BUILDING - MORNING 
An apartment building towers overhead, vaguely ominous. Lincoln approaches the entrance with Ester. We now see he has a band-aid covering his crosshatch. He takes Ester briefly aside, teasing some tresses over hers. As she gently smooths down her hair, Ester catches his eye. A look flickers between them. Then- 
D O O R M A N (O.S.) Fancy dress, was it, sir? 
A DOORMAN is looking at them like they just rolled out of a club he wouldn't be seen dead in. Off their flustered looks, he gives an apologetic smile. Then opens the door and holds it for them. Lincoln reaches for Ester's hand. Then stiffly leads her inside. 
144   INT . CORRIDOR - AN UPPER FLOOR - DAY 
The doors are set with small glowing orbs at peephole level. Like eyeballs, watching, as Lincoln and Ester proceed up the corridor. They stop at a door. Lincoln checks the number. Pauses heavily. Then looks for some type of doorbell. As his eyes cross the orb, it seems to blink. Then comes a sound of disengaging locks. Then the door swings open. Lincoln flinches, taken by surprise. Then frowns as he sees there is no one on the other side of the door. 
145   INT . APARTMENT - DAY 
Lincoln enters, wary, scanning around. A living room. Framed pictures. A sofa, chairs. A coffee table, empty bottles, cigarette packs, a full ashtray. A bureau, some paperwork. Silence, stillness. No sign of life, no sense of danger. Lincoln moves across to the bureau and starts leafing through the papers. Ester ventures in through the door, curious- 
ESTER What are you looking for? 
LINCOLN You . . . you're the one who made me? 
TOM No. 
LINCOLN Who made me? 
TOM I signed a contract. I can show you. 
He gestures to a mirror on the wall. Lincoln steps back but his eyes are unremitting. Tom rises, cautious, crossing to the wall. He opens the mirror to reveal a wall safe. His trembling fingers tap the keypad and the safe hisses open. He draws out a contract folder embossed with a crosshatch. Then offers it to his agnate- 
TOM It's all right there. Who, why... 
Lincoln takes the contract folder and starts flipping the pages, reading. A pendulous silence falls. Tom stands watching, smoking nervously. Ester stands by the door, trying to take all this in. 
TOM Look you've got what you wanted. Now why don't you just get out of here? 
LINCOLN (pause, looks at him) There are men out there, looking for us. I want you to make them stop. 
TOM I can't... 
Lincoln sets down the contract and brings up the knife again. 
TOM I can't. Look, I'm a lawyer, I know how it works. The contract, everything, it's all laced with confidentiality clauses. It means they don't want this to get out. It means whatever I do, they're not going to stop. You understand? 
Lincoln pauses, assimilating. His double's expression indicates that he's telling the truth. Maybe try a more practical request- 
LINCOLN Do you have transport? 
TOM Transport , yes... yes, parked downstairs... Bay 53... Take it... 
LINCOLN And then you'll call security? 
Lincoln steps closer, pointing the knife. Tom tries to stay dead- pan. The lawyer kicking in. Look them in the eye when you lie- 
TOM I'm not going to call security. I'm not going to call anybody, okay? 
Lincoln looks at his double, reason now yielding to anger. Deep, roiling. Tom looks at his agnate, fear welling, deadpan cracking- 
TOM Look, maybe there's something... maybe there's a way to cancel the contract... 
Lincoln presses the tip of the blade to his double's cheek. 
TOM For Christ's sake! It's not my fault! 
Lincoln inches the blade deeper into the trembling face, drawing blood. The anger urging, hungry for more blood. Then suddenly- 
ESTER Lincoln ! No! 
Lincoln looks at her, the anger interrupted, the knife still in place. He pauses. Then returns to his double. The dreading eyes, the trickle of blood down the face. His e y e s . His f a c e . A long, foreboding moment. Then suddenly Lincoln lashes out. His fist sends his double flying, falling in a flurry of contract pages. Lincoln stands over him, looking down, like a dominant species. His double is unmoving, unconscious. Lincoln abruptly spins away. 
146   INT . ELEVATOR - DESCENDING 
The light panel flashes. Lincoln stands grimly, head lowered, trying to fathom the anger roiling within. Ester stares at him, wanly. Both held in the dark tableau. And the elevator descends. 
147   INT . UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - DAY 
The vehicle parked in bay 53 is a hybrid of sportscar a n d speed- b o a t , a two-seater known as a "skiff". Lincoln and Ester climb in. Lincoln reviews the drive console, the controls, all of it, meaningless. His eyes cross an orb set in the steering wheel. 
The orb seems to blink and suddenly the drive console lights up. Lincoln reviews it. A screen in front of him is flashing: "PILOTING: MANUAL/AUTO?". He assimilates. Then ventures- 
LINCOLN Auto... 
The interface processes, then asks: "DESTINATION: NAME/ADDRESS?" 
LINCOLN O u t of state... West... 
The interface processes, then reports "UNDOCKING". Lincoln and Ester jolt as the skiff shunts forward. Lode-poles pulsing ahead of them, the skiff moves out, as if pulled by a phantom tugboat. 
148   EXT . STREET - DAY 
The skiff buckets off the ramp into a street inlet. Then stops rocking a little. The interface reports: "ESTABLISHING UPLINK". On another screen, a road map appears. A red dot plants at their point of origin then bleeds into a red line, plotting a course. 
The autopilot scans for traffic, then nudges forward on the throttle. The resistors drone, the steering wheel turns and the skiff noses onto the street. Finding its lane, it drops to cruise speed. Lincoln studies the interplay of steering wheel, throttle and brake. Then glances at Ester. She's plunged in thought, staring off. She turns to him with a haggard frown- 
ESTER The man back there... who looked like you... does it mean I have someone too? 
Lincoln looks at her blankly, unknowing. Ester stares off again, her brow knotting with unanswered questions. But Lincoln's gaze lingers. Her pale skin, her limpid eyes, her hair fluttering in the breeze. It's the first time he's really seen Ester's beauty. 
149   EXT . PHOENIX SKYLINE - DAY 
The domes and spires glint in the sunlight. We isolate a glass steeple. A crosshatch insignia. A legend "Sanger Industries". 
150   INT . CROWNE'S OFFICE - SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER - DAY 
A corner office with a panoramic view of the city. Crowne sits at a console desk, reviewing some data on a holoframe screen. A knock on the door and HER SECRETARY enters, looking unsettled- 
SECRETARY I just thought I should warn you. I have a sponsor holding. His name's Thomas Lincoln. He sounded... angry. 
151   EXT. STREET TUNNEL - DAY 
KATHERINE O h , God... Oh, my God... 
175   EXT. PHOENIX - LATE AFTERNOON 
A whisper cuts across the glistening skyline towards The Sanger Industries Tower. It circles in to land on a rooftop helipad. 
176   INT . CROWNE'S OFFICE - SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER 
Silence . Crowne sits at her desk. Merrick sits across from her. Waiting. The air stirs as the secretary ushers Dr. Sanger into the office. No greetings are exchanged. Sanger just lowers into a chair, a little unsettled to find Merrick has preceded him. 
CROWNE I take it you've heard the news. 
DR. SANGER The bond agents. Yes. Unfortunate. 
CROWNE Unfortunate? (pauses, lights a cigarette) We're way past unfortunate, Henry. 
DR. SANGER I thought we'd covered ourselves. 
CROWNE The police won't connect the bond agents to us. But that's not the problem. It's the sponsor. 
DR. SANGER What are you talking about? 
MERRICK The male agnate tracked him down. 
CROWNE His name's Thomas Lincoln. It seems they had a genetic reunion. Not a h a p p y one. It was all I could do to stop him going to the authorities. 
DR. SANGER I still don't see the problem. 
CROWNE He may not want a police involvement but he's already threatened to file suit. And he's one of the biggest litigation attorneys in the city. 
DR. SANGER That's why we have you, Ellen. 
CROWNE That's why I asked Bernard to come out here. To find out how it happened. 
MERRICK I told her, Henry. About synesthesia. 
S a n g e r casts a betrayed look at Merrick. Then returns to Crowne- 
DR. SANGER I t was a marginal problem. And it was under control - according to Bernard. 
CROWNE That's not the point. Whether or not it's a factor in this instance, it puts us in breach of the clone laws. 
DR. SANGER I t doesn't even touch their genetics. 
CROWNE I'm talking about self-awareness. The virtual humanity statutes require us t o give them consciousness to the l e v e l of functionality. But not beyond. 
This gives Sanger pause. Crowne drags her cigarette acutely. 
CROWNE L e g a l l y , we are naked on every level. Federal legislature, state licensing, sponsorship contract... But even if we did manage to weather the legal storm, we'd never survive the public scrutiny. 
S a n g e r absorbs this, calmly shaking a pill from his pill bottle. 
DR. SANGER I've spent my entire career facing down naysayers, Ellen. Don't think for a second I'm afraid of facing them now. 
CROWNE You remember cryogenics? At the outset, people dismissed it as a rich man's folly. Eccentric millionaires freezing their brains, hoping to wake up in a new body. 
CROWNE (cont'd) E v e n when cloning showed signs of m a k i n g it feasible, it wasn't moral a f f r o n t that caused the backlash. It w a s the scope. The scope, Henry. When t h e size of the customer base was e x p o s e d , it screamed inequality - one m e d i c i n e for the rich and one for the p o o r . The pressure for accessible cryo- genics a s good as buried the industry. ( a pause for emphasis) O u r graves are being dug as we speak, g e n t l e m e n . Every passing second, they g e t deeper. If we're going to survive, w e have to act swiftly and decisively. 
DR. SANGER A l r i g h t . What do you suggest? 
S a n g e r dry swallows the pill. Ellen opens a contract folder. 
CROWNE O u r security chief - I've been looking at his file. Ex-marine, served in South China - do we think he still has it in him? 
DR. SANGER ( r e a l i z i n g , suddenly harsh) A r e you insane? 
The i r eyes deadlock. Crowne gives Merrick a sideways glance. 
CROWNE ` You ever wondered why Henry takes those pills, Bernard? Why he doesn't avail himself of his own technology? 
DR. SANGER An agnate could give me a new heart but to get it to function mentally... 
CROWNE B u l l s h i t , Henry. Bullshit. You don't want to deal with reality. Only with concept. I may not have been there at the start but I heard the stories. You wanted in on every aspect of construction, from environmental design right down to the classical playlists. I t wasn't enough just to make it work, was it? No, you wanted your own little utopia. 
CROWNE (cont'd) Swanning a r o u n d in your mountain r e t r e a t like some self-appointed d e i t y . But when it comes to getting y o u r hands dirty... 
DR. SANGER A r e you quite finished? 
CROWNE E v e n God has blood on his hands, Henry. Are you going to watch it all go up in flames or are you going to deal with it? 
S a n g e r crosses to the window, looking down onto the city. 
DR. SANGER You see that street down there...? Running east from the stadium. My father used to take me to church on that street. An old Spanish church. 
CROWNE What's your point? 
DR. SANGER I didn't know they'd torn it down. 
177   INT . GUEST BEDROOM - KATHERINE'S HOUSE - EVENING 
A slant of light falls across Ester, writhing in her sleep, rasping. Katherine and Lincoln peer in through the doorway, checking on her. Then Katherine quietly closes the door. 
181   INT . KATHERINE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Lincoln paces around, feeling useless. Katherine considers him- 
KATHERINE What do I call you? 
LINCOLN Lincoln . My name's Lincoln. 
KATHERINE Lincoln , I think she needs professional help. I think she needs to see a doctor. 
LINCOLN N o . They'll find her. They'll take her. 
KATHERINE N o t if I don't want them to. 
LINCOLN You don't understand. They don't want people to know about her. Either of us. 
KATHERINE The doctor I'm thinking of, he's an old friend. He look after John in t h e final stages. I trust him. 
LINCOLN Why ? So you can take her baby? 
KATHERINE N o . No, that's not what I want. O f f Lincoln's blunt look, she sighs, lowering into a chair. 
KATHERINE M a y b e I didn't realize she'd      be so... ( c u t s off, a deep pause) M a y b e I just didn't want to.      Either way, I was wrong. I want you          to know that. I was wrong... And I'm          sorry. 
A heavy lull. Lincoln hangs his head, remembering. 
LINCOLN The y make you believe there's a place called The Island. Then they take you upstairs and put you to sleep. They cut you open. They take pieces of you. 
Katherine looks at him, intuiting. She allows a pause, then- 
KATHERINE E v e n if I had taken her baby, I swear to you, I'd never have... They give you a choice, you see, to extend the sponsorship after... after d e l i v e r y . 
LINCOLN N o . I saw a lot of us go to The Island. But I never saw anyone come back. 
KATHERINE You mean... Even if I had extended the sponsorship, they'd have... and kept taking the money? But that's inhuman. 
LINCOLN ( b e a t , a lost look) Is it? I wouldn't know. 
182   INT . UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - EVENING 
A sleek low vehicle known as a "straker" pulls down the ramp. 
183   INT . APARTMENT BUILDING - EVENING 
The orbs on the doors eyeball Scheer, moving up the corridor. He stops at a doorway. Rings the bell. Tom Lincoln opens the door- 
TOM Yes? 
SCHEER I'm from the Sanger Institute. 
TOM I've given you people enough of my time already. 
SCHEER I t ' s just a formality. I need to see your sponsorship contract. 
T o m pauses then lets Scheer inside. He crosses to the wall safe, taps the keys. Then pulls out the contract folder. He offers it. 
SCHEER Is this the only copy? 
TOM Why would I make copies? Do you think I want anyone else to know about this? 
S c h e e r accepts the folder. As Tom turns to close the safe, he sets it down. And grabs Tom from behind, by the scalp, pressing the syringe-gun into his jugular. A HISS. Tom clutches his throat like it's on fire. With a boiling gurgle, he staggers forward. Sweating, collapsing. Convulsing, belching steam. Then falling slack. His skin starts to smolder. Scheer pauses, then tosses t h e contract folder on top of him, leaving it to burn with him. 
184   EXT. NEW GAZA HOSPITAL - PHOENIX - NIGHT 
E s t a b l i s h i n g . A clean facade of white steel and glass. A hatch- b a c k vehicle known as a "corsair" pulls down the parking ramp. 
185   INT . UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - NEW GAZA HOSPITAL - NIGHT 
The corsair pulls up at the ER entrance, Lincoln at the wheel. Katherine gets out of the passenger side. A doctor is waiting - 50's, caring face. His name is DR. ABRAMS. He looks curiously at the man at the wheel. Then greets Katherine with a hug - 
D R . ABRAMS Katherine . . . It's good to see you. I haven't seen you since John's funeral. 
KATHERINE We l l I've been keeping busy. Trying to. Thanks for coming down to meet me. 
D R . ABRAMS Your call was a little cryptic. What is it exactly that's wrong with you? 
KATHERINE I t ' s not me... Not exactly. 
She opens the rear door of the corsair. Ester is lying on the back seat. Dr. Abrams frowns as he notices the resemblance. 
186   EXT . THE RANCH HOUSE - SEDONA - NIGHT 
The straker p u l l s up into the port. 
187   INT . THE STUDIO / MAIN HOUSE - SEDONA - NIGHT 
The shadow of Scheer moving outside the windows, looking for a point of entry. He inspects the studio door for alarms. Then elbows the glass. Reaching inside, turning the lock. He enters the studio, glancing at the sculptures. Moving through the home. 
SCHEER RECOVERING - seeing his quarry through the confusion - no time for subtlety - he leaps over the nurse's station - pursuing- LINCOLN pauses at the emergency exit - checking to see his enemy is following - then pushing on through the doors into-- 
194   INT . STAIRWELL - NIGHT 
LINCOLN HAMMERS DOWN THE STEPS - an alarm sounding - shouting from beyond - FOOTFALLS BEHIND HIM - deeper into the gloom- 
S C H E E R VAULTING THE RAIL - shortcutting t h e flights of steps - catching sight of his quarry as he pushes through a door into-- 
195   INT . UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
LINCOLN BURSTS OUT INTO THE PARKING LOT - flashes of light - vehicles pulling in and out - off across the parking docks - 
S C H E E R BURSTS OUT IN HIS WAKE - his quarry temporarily lost - now spotting him across the lot - leaping into a vehicle - LINCOLN FIRES UP THE CORSAIR - resistors droning - jamming the throttle - lurching out - NARROWLY MISSING ANOTHER VEHICLE - 
S C H E E R SPINNING ROUND as the corsair blurs past - it's heading for the exit ramp - he launches towards the straker - 
196   EXT . EXIT RAMP - THE HOSPITAL - NIGHT 
T H E CORSAIR BURNS UP the parking ramp - SMASHING THE GATE ARM - plunging out into the street - bouncing across the lodestream - T H E STRAKER H U R T L E S UP close behind - into the snarl of traffic - steering expertly through - picking up the tail of the corsair - 
197   EXT . STREETS OF PHOENIX - NIGHT 
T H E CORSAIR PLOUGHS UP THE STREET - TRAFFIC SWERVING out of its path - BUOYS CLANGING as it lurches from one lane to the next - 
LINCOLN JAMS THE THROTTLE - the resistors buzzing, growling with energy - he has one goal - draw his enemy away from Ester - 
S C H E E R COOLLY INTENT at the controls of the straker - keeping a certain distance - waiting for his quarry to make a mistake -- 
A METRO PD OFFICER PULLS OUT - mounted on a hybrid of motorbike and jetski k n o w n as a "lode-runner" - SOUNDING THE SIREN-- 
S C H E E R REACTING - the PD lode-runner pulling ahead of him - he can't allow a police intervention - he slips in behind -- 
THE METRO PD OFFICER - darting looks back - headlamps b l i n d i n g his rear-view - another vehicle is coming up behind him fast - - C L A N G - THE STRAKER I M P A C T S - glancing the PD lode-runner which wobbles, corrects - the straker d r o p s back for a longer run up-- 
T H E METRO PD OFFICER - yelling into his headset - inaudible over the siren - the headlamps a g a i n - the vehicle coming up behind-- - C R A S H - THE PD LODE-RUNNER fishtails - its resistors suddenly clash with the prevailing polarity - A HUGE JOLT OF INERTIA- 
C A T A P U L T I N G THE METRO PD OFFICER through the air - plummeting down into obscurity - THE STRAKER W H O O S H I N G OVER HIS HEAD - T H E PD LODE-RUNNER LEFT SPINNING behind - resistors vying with the polarity - the drive system melting down - FUSING, SPARKING-- 
- B O O M - THE PD LODE-RUNNER EXPLODES IN A FLASH OF ELECTRICAL FIRE- 
S C H E E R watches the fireball in his rear-view - there will be more police soon - he jams the throttle - he has to end this. 
LINCOLN SEEING THE STRAKER Z O O M I N G UP BEHIND - veering round another corner - the chassis tilting - A STEEP BANKING TURN - 
T H E CORSAIR HULL RUNNERS THUDDING across the buffers - recoil sending the chassis up against the concrete - SPARKS FLYING-- 
S C H E E R TURNING THE CORNER - the windshield suddenly sprayed with sparks - jerking back on the throttle to avoid a collision - 
LINCOLN FIGHTING TO CORRECT THE STEERING - seeing the straker d r o p p i n g back - a chance to gain distance - JAMMING THE THROTTLE- 
A N INTERSECTION APPROACHING - Lincoln can't correct his steering in time - the corsair careens at full res over the intersection-- 
C R A S H I N G THROUGH A GATE ARM - the ground dropping away into a steep ramp - suddenly the corsair is flying through the air-- 
C R A S H I N G - SQUEALING ONWARDS - SCUDDING ACROSS VEHICLE ROOFS, finally nose-diving into an empty bay with a DEAFENING CRUNCH- 
198   EXT . ENTRANCE - HOLSPAR STADIUM - NIGHT 
The straker p u l l s up at the smashed gate arm. In the booth, a holoserve p a r k i n g attendant greets the arrival with a smile- 
P A R K I N G ATTENDANT We l c o m e to Holspar S t a d i u m , home of the Phoenix Admirals, parking is fifteen currency units... 
Scheer gets out of the straker. He looks down at the crashsite b e l o w . The parking lot, like a marina, is filled to capacity. A game is in progress. A corona of light coming from the stadium. Hoots, music, the roaring crowd. Over which, sirens can now be heard. Scheer draws the syringe-gun and heads down the ramp. 
199   EXT . PARKING LOT - HOLSPAR STADIUM - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER 
D u s t blooms from the crashsite. S c h e e r crouches, peering down at the wrecked corsair. The burst windshield, the dangling driver side door shows his quarry has escaped the wreckage. He rises and scans around. On the concrete, a trail of blood is visible. 
200   INT . STORAGE AREA - HOLSPAR STADIUM - MINUTES LATER 
The blood trail leads down a gloomy stairwell. The game is just audible overhead. Lincoln stumbles down the steps, clutching his bleeding arm. Between pain and concussion, he loses his footing and falls. He tumbles down the remaining steps to the bottom. 
I n the gloom we   see groundskeeping e q u i p m e n t , supplies - edgers, aerators, spray    rigs, drums of insecticides, herbicides. For a moment, Lincoln    lies stunned. Then hears a noise and rolls over. He looks up the    stairwell. A shadow is descending towards him. 
W i t h painful effort, Lincoln starts crawling across the floor, eyes fixed on the shadow. Tensing as A HANDGUN noses out of the darkness. Then A STADIUM SECURITY GUARD steps into the light - 
S E C U R I T Y GUARD You , what are you doing down here? 
N o w he sees Lincoln more closely - injured, his arm bleeding. 
S E C U R I T Y GUARD O h , Jesus... Are you okay, son? 
Lincoln eases a little as he sees the security guard lower his weapon. Then suddenly the guard is JERKED BACK BY THE SCALP. A HISS. Now suddenly the guard jettisons the handgun, clutching his throat like it's on fire. With a boiling gurgle, he staggers forward. Streaming with sweat. Toppling across a herbicide drum. Convulsing, belching steam. Then suddenly his body falls slack. S c h e e r is at the foot of the steps, discarding the spent ampule from the syringe-gun. Now screwing a fresh ampule into place. 
Lincoln turns to him, realizing what he's just witnessed is a glimpse of his own fate. He pushes himself upright, bracing. S c h e e r looks at him. Clutching his bloody arm, barely able to stay upright, but still ready to fight for life. He half-smiles- 
SCHEER I'm jealous of you. You have a reason to live. I can't say I've ever had that... 
Lincoln holds his gaze, looking deep in his eyes. Then, as if scared by what he sees there, starts inching away, glancing at-- 
D R . ABRAMS J u s t understand that I've put a lot on the line for you, Katherine. 
KATHERINE I know... But it felt good. It felt like something John would have done. 
205   INT . ROOFTOP FLIGHTPAD - THE SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER 
C r o w n e escorts Sanger and Merrick to the waiting whisper. 
CROWNE We l l , I don't know about the two of you but I'd say we got off lightly. 
DR. SANGER Did we? 
CROWNE Don't start getting maudlin, Henry. It's a little too late in the game. 
She shakes their hands as they climb into the whisper. Then watches it take off, ascending into the blinding sunlight. 
D I S S O L V E TO: 206   EXT . THE SANGER INSTITUTE - SOME WEEKS LATER 
A i r blasts up from the giant funnel. Widening, we re-establish the huge ring, the processing plant, the giant appendages of ducting, the immutable red rocks. The shot sequence, reprising. From the processing plant, over the main complex. From the front of the complex, to the dock. 
Following the lodeway out to the perimeter wall. The gateway now gliding open to disclose a view of the shimmering desert. Out in the distance, the institute liner emerging from the shimmer. The crosshatch insignia. 
207   INT . ENTRANCE HALL - THE SANGER INSTITUTE - DAY 
T h r o u g h the polarized glass we see the liner has docked. A TOUR GROUP is disembarking. Another parade of plutocracy, aging bloated me and brittle young women. They filter inside to be greeted by the courtesy staff, led by the ever-perky LYDIA. 
LYDIA L a d i e s and gentlemen, my name is Lydia and on behalf of our staff, I'd like t o welcome you to The Sanger Institute. Before we start the tour, we'll be serv- i n g r e f r e s h m e n t s in the visitor center and circulating our standard discretion agreements. I should add that today you are all very lucky because our CEO and founder, Dr. Henry Sanger, is with us and will be leading the tour personally. 
208   INT . VISITOR CENTER - THE SANGER INSTITUTE - DAY 
The tour group pick and mingle at a buffet. We isolate a casually dressed man, lightly bearded, in a Phoenix Admirals cap, crossing to Lydia. She turns to greet him with a smile- 
LYDIA Yes . . . Mr. Thomas, isn't it? The man tilts up to reveal his face. We see he is LINCOLN... 
LINCOLN I can't find my sunglasses. I think I left them on the shuttle. 
LYDIA We l l we're about to start the tour. But I can have someone check for you. 
LINCOLN Don't worry. I'll catch up. 
209   EXT . PROCESSING PLANT - DAY 
Lincoln moves quickly along the wall towards the back of the complex. Hugging the shadows, scanning for onlookers. There is the processing plant and there, the ring of funnels. The sight brings a sudden rush of memories, painful memories, horrors. 
Lincoln steels himself, then breaks from shadow and races for the nearest funnel. He makes a running lap. His fingers grab t h e lip of the funnel and he pulls himself up. Reaching the lip, he finds the funnel mouth has been gridded o v e r . Then he hears- 
A VOICE (O.S.) S i r , this is a restricted area... 
Lincoln lowers back to the ground. He finds himself facing A TECHNICIAN in a hardhat. His uniform reads "Air Processing". 
210   INT . ELEVATOR - PROCESSING PLANT 
The doors slide open and the technician enters, stiffly. Then suddenly topples forward, pistol whipped from behind. Lincoln enters the elevator, a familiar handgun clenched in his fist. 
211   INT . ELEVATOR SHAFT 
L o o k i n g up an elevator shaft. The red pulse of the lode-poles, rippling downward as the elevator descends from the surface. 
212   INT . ELEVATOR - DESCENDING 
Lincoln is now wearing the technician's uniform. He watches the panel lights flashing down. "Level 3: Harvest" "Level 5: Labor Decon", "Level 7: Labor Quarters". His pupils are dilating but his face is set with determination. He knows what he must do. His gaze drifts down to "Level Twenty: Agnate Containment". 
213   INT . THE ETHER GRID 
The holographic rendering of containment spins in the vaulted chamber like a giant geometrical phantom. The ether blinks with blue dots in their hundreds as the agnates g o about their day. 
214   INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM 
O v e r l o o k i n g the ether, Ethercon sits at his console. The hiss of an opening door as someone enters. Ethercon looks round. He greets the technician's arrival with an inquisitive look. Then the technician takes off his hardhat. A crosshatch on his brow. Ethercon reacts almost instantly, reaching for the console. Then instantly freezes as Lincoln presses the handgun to his skull. 
215   INT . CORRIDOR - LEVEL TWENTY SEVEN 
P a l e blue light. Ethercon leads the way down a silent corridor. Lincoln follows him, the handgun firmly levelled on his head. 
216   INT. CHAMBER - LEVEL TWENTY SEVEN 
The pale blue light sustains. The chamber is reminiscent of the foundation chambers. The walls lined with tanks. But instead of amber fluid, these contain blocks of ice. Beside each tank is a grid of bio-monitors. E t h e r c o n stumbles into frame, prodded by Lincoln. Then, with a trembling finger points to one of the tanks. Lincoln holds aim on him and considers the glass facet. He wipes the condensation off the glass. Suspended in the block of ice is a shadow. A human figure. A device is attached to his stomach. Lincoln looks at the bio-monitors. A screen reads: 
" P R O D U C T ID: STARKWEATHER/ FOUNDATION: II/ GENERATION: DELTA". 
Lincoln looks across the EKG, the cardiograph, indications that Starkweather is still alive. Then he fixes on the RFI m o n i t o r . A resonant image of the brain. The shifting aura showing a level of consciousness. What thoughts must be going through that mind? The fate of the agnates s p a r e d from expiration. To be kept on i c e for future harvest. With a haggard look, Lincoln rests his hand on the glass where Starkweather hangs frozen. Connecting. 
217   INT . SALES HALL - THE INSTITUTE - DAY 
An embryo in mutated effigy hangs suspended in the amber fluid. Dr. Sanger stands at the wall of display tanks, mid-way through his sales pitch. He delivers it now with noticeably less gusto- 
DR. SANGER C a s e in point, the clone. Back in the beginning, the mapping of the human genome was declared a historic landmark- to break the curse of heredity, to correct congenital defect... genetic engineering became the brave new world of medical science. A bright future that led to a dark age and much of... ( a n abrupt pause, a frown) . . . l e g i s l a t i o n we know today. But while the clone laws may have narrowed the field, science marches on. Only to... ( a n o t h e r abrupt pause) I'm sorry, I'm f... 
S u d d e n l y he clutches his arm, emitting a guttural gasp. 
