JACKIE BROWN 
Jackie Brown 
Screenplay by Quentin Tarantino 
OPENING CREDITS 
INT. LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - DAY 
We hear the rhythm of funky seventies SOUL MUSIC. 
Then SHE steps into FRAME. 
She is JACKIE BROWN, a stewardess dressed in her CABO AIR uniform. (A little shuttle airline that flies from Los Angeles to Cabo San Lucas. Approximate flight time: forty five minutes) 
Jackie stands still as a people-mover slowly inches her through the airport. The CREDITS APEAR and DISAPPEAR in front of her. 
Jackie Brown is a very attractive black woman in her mid forties, though she looks like she's in her mid-thirties. 
The people-mover reaches the end of the line, she steps off. 
She breezes through Customs and we follow her with a STEDICAM as she strides through the airport... She gets to her gate disappears inside the plane for a moment comes back out sans flight bag picks up the microphone. 
JACKIE (into mike) Flight 710 Cabo San Lucas, now boarding Gate 12, first class only. 
With a smile on her face, she collects passengers' boarding passes as they board the plane. 
FADE TO BLACK 
TITLE CARD 
"ORDELL ROBBIE" 
FADE UP ON: 
EXT. FIRING RANGE - DAY 
VIDEO 
A chorus line of six beautiful bikini-clad women, all holding different automatic weapons, BLASTING away. 
The cheap VIDEO TITLES to: 
"CHICKS WHO LOVE GUNS" 
Play over this image. 
One bikini beauty is singled out. She's a gorgeous brunette named SIDNEY. Sidney stands facing camera holding a TEC-9 and describing it. 
SIDNEY (to camera) Hi, I'm Sidney. And I love to TEC-9. The popular TEC-9 is advertised by its makers as being tough as the toughest customer. 
SIDNEY'S STATISTICS: Age, height, measurements, date of birth, appear at the bottom left-hand corner. As Sidney continues her sales pitch/demonstration, a BLACK MAN'S VOICE begins talking over the video. 
BLACK MAN (O.S.) That's a TEC-9. It's a cheap ass spray gun outta South Miami. 
After a CLOSEUP of the TEC-9, Sidney FIRES the weapon. 
BLACK VOICE (O.S.) (CONT'D) Cost three-eighty retail. I get them for two hundred and sell 'em for eight. 
INT. MELANIE'S BEAHC APARTMENT - NIGHT 
The Black Voice belong to forty-five-year old ORDELL ROBBIE. 
Ordell wears clothes nice and likes wearing nice clothes. Stylish, athletic wear (Reebok), heavy, black leather jackets (Hugo Boss), warm-colored berets and baseball caps to cover his balding head are Ordell's "look." At this moment Ordell's wearing an open silk shirt. 
Ordell narrates the video playing on the big-screen V. (the most expensive thing in the apartment). He holds a cocktail in one hand (screwdriver, his drink of choice) and the remote control in the other, pacing the floor in his I-can-talk-anybody-into-anything voice. 
LOUIS GARA, who looks like he does his shopping at the Salvation Army (dressed in a Hawaiian shirt and dungarees), sits on the sofa staring blankly at the video, drinking Jack Daniels on ice. Louis, white, also in his mid forties, has lived over half of his life in penal institutions. The experience has affected both his body language and his thought process. 
While acutely aware of the rhythm of life inside a correction facility, in the real world his timing is thrown. It's like a song he doesn't know the lyrics to but attempt to sing anyway. 
The third person watching the video is the person who lives in this apartment, MELANIE RALSTON. Melanie, thirty- three, is a tanned, blonde, California beach bunny. Like the kind you se in the old Crown International movies from the seventies like "Pom Pom Girls" "Malibu Beach" and "Beach Girls," except Melanie is older than any of those girls ever are. She's dressed in her Melanie- uniform of stringy Levis cutoffs and a stringy bra top. So far Melanie has been able to make a living out of lying in the sun, always finding a generous, wealthy man more than willing to pay her rent and pick up her tabs. In her prime (twenty two) it was Japanese industrialists, film production guys, and Middle Eastern businessmen who kept Melanie. And it was places like the Bahamas, Acapulco, and the Virgin Islands where they kept her. 
But now, at thirty three, she lives in an apartment in Hermosa Beach, California that Ordell pays for an drops in and out of. She's curled up in a reclining chair, smoking weed from a pipe, reading Movieline Magazine and paying no attention to the video. 
ORDELL This TEC-9? They advertise it as being the most popular gun in American crime. Can you believe that shit? It actually says that on the little booklet that comes with it. "Most Popular Gun in American Crime," like they're proud of that shit. 
Ordell hits the fast-forward on his remote control. 
Sidney is rushed off the screen and replace by CINDY, a pretty, blonde bodybuilder clad in a red, white and blue bikini, holding a Styer Aug. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Check out this body-builder chick... Now see what she got. That's a Styer aug. Styer Aug's a bad motherfucker. Listen. 
Ordell punches up the volume. 
Cindy BLASTS the Styer Aug, loud. 
Ordell imitates the sound of the weapon. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Shit's expensive, man. Comes from Austria. My customers don't know shit about it, so there ain't no demand. (to Melanie) Baby, I could use some more ice. 
Melanie puts down the magazine, takes his cocktail glass from him and moves to the kitchen. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) But put that bad boy in a flick, every motherfucker out there want one. I'm serious as a heart attack. Them Hong Kong movies came out, every nigga gotta have a forty-five. And they don't want one, they want two, cause nigga want to be "The Killer." What they don't know, and that movie don't tell you is a .45 has a serious fuckin' jammin' problem. I always try and steer a customer towards a 9- millimeter. Damn near the same weapon, don't have half the jammin' problems. But some niggas out there, you can't tell them anything. They want a .45. The killer had a .45, they want a .45. 
Melanie comes back, hands Ordell his screwdriver, then sits where she was. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Thanks, Baby. 
LOUIS Who's your partner? 
Ordell sits down on the couch. Melanie's reading "Movieline Inside" magazine. 
ORDELL Mr. Walker. He runs a fishing boat in Mexico. I deliver the merchandise to him, gets it to my customers. On all my bulk sales, anyway. Nigga didn't have a pot to piss in or a window to throw it out 'fore I set 'em up. Now, motherfucker's rollin' in cash. He got himself a yacht, with all kinds of high tech navigational shit on it. (back to video) AK-47, the very best there is. 
GLORIA, a tall, Amazonian, bikini-clad, black woman faces camera and describes the AK-47. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) When you absolutely, positively, gotta kill every motherfucker in the room, accept no substitute. That there is the Chinese one. I pay eight- fifty and double my money. 
The phone rings. 
ORDELL(CONT'D) Get that for me, will ya baby? 
MELANIE You know it's for you. 
Ordell just stares at her. 
ORDELL Girl, you better not make me go over there and put my feet to ya. 
Louis keeps staring at he screen. 
Melanie gets up, goes over to the counter that separates the living room from the kitchen, picks up the phone, says: 
MELANIE Hello. 
Puts the phone down and says; 
MELANIE (CONT'D) It's for you. 
MAX (CONT'D) (on phone) Reggie, there ain't no two ways about it. You're spending the night in jail, but I already told you I'll get you out tomorrow. Now where are you? (pause) You're at your mother's house, aren't you? 
Ordell lights up a cigarette. (Viceroy). 
He notices a picture on the wall of Max with his arm around a big, powerfully built black man. They're both grinning. 
Louis pours himself some coffee from a coffeemaker into a small, white styrofoam cup. He picks up a jar of powdered non-dairy creamer that's so dry he has to break off a rock. Louis adds the rock of coffeemate to his beverage. 
MAX (CONT'D) (on phone) Okay. Just stay put till I come for you. (pause) Reggie, do yourself a really big favor and be there when I get there. 
He hangs up the phone. 
Ordell sits in front of the desk, smiling at him and smoking. 
MAX (CONT'D) How can I help you? 
ORDELL (indicating the Viceroy) Where would you like me to put my ash? 
Max looks at him for a moment. 
MAX Use that coffee cup on the desk. 
Ordell picks up the coffee cup, which still has a little bit of coffee in it, and flicks his ash. 
ORDELL And I need me a bond for ten thousand. 
Max throws a look past Ordell to Louis. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Oh, that's just my white friend, Louis. He's got nothing to do with my business. We just hangin together. We're on our way to a cocktail lounge. 
From across the room, Louis nods his head in Max's direction. 
Max looks at him a moment, then back to Ordell. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) (returning to the photo) Who's that big Mandingo nigga you gotcha arm around? 
Max looks at him a moment and says; 
MAX That's Winston. He works here. 
ORDELL He's a big one. You two tight? 
MAX Yeah. 
ORDELL It was our idea to take the picture, wasn't it? 
Max looks at Ordell, getting his drift, then says; 
MAX So, you want a ten-thousand dollar bond. What've you got for collateral? 
ORDELL Gonna have to put up cash. 
MAX You have it with you? 
Ordell picks up his Lakers bag and puts it in the empty chair next to him. 
ORDELL It's in my bag. 
MAX You have cash. What do you need me for? 
ORDELL C'mon, you know how they do. Black man comes in with ten thousand, they wanna fuck with 'em. First off, they gonna wanna know where I got it. Second, they gonna keep a big chunk of it - start talkin' that court cost shit. Fuck that shit, Jack. I'll go through you. 
MAX Cost you a thousand for the bond. 
ORDELL I know that. 
Louis just stands, feeling uncomfortable, in the other room drinking coffee. 
MAX Who's it for? A relative? 
ORDELL Fella named Beaumont. They have him up at county. It started out drunk driving, but they wrote it up "possession of a concealed weapon." Dumb monkey-ass had a pistol on him. 
MAX Ten thousand sounds high. 
ORDELL They ran his name and got a hit. He's been in before. Besides, Beaumont's from Kentucky, and I think they're prejudiced against black men from the South out here. 
MAX He takes off and I gotta go to Kentucky to bring him back, you pay the expenses. 
ORDELL You think you could do that? 
Max taking papers out of the drawer... 
MAX I've done it. 
... picking up the pen... 
MAX (CONT'D) What's his full name? 
ORDELL Beaumont. That's the only name I know. 
Max looks at Ordell, but doesn't ask him the obvious question. 
Max picks up the phone. 
MAX (on phone) Records office. 
Max on hold, looks at Ordell. 
Ordell smiles. 
MAX (CONT'D) (back on the line) Hello, this is Max Cherry. Cherry Bail Bonds. Who's this? (pause) Hi, Vicki. Look, Vicki, I need you to look up the booking card and rough arrest on a defendant named Beaumont. (pause) That's all I have. I believe it's a surname but I'm not sure. Thanks. 
Louis enters the area, standing over Ordell. 
LOUIS I'm going to wait in the car. 
ORDELL Sure. (to Max) We almost done, ain't we? 
MAX Getting there. 
ORDELL You go wait in the car. Wait a minute. 
Ordell pulls out a heavy-duty keychain with a shitload of keys on it. 
ORDELL Take the keys, man. Listen to music. 
LOUIS Which one is for the car? 
Ordell finds it. While he goes through the keys, Vicki comes back on the line. 
Max speaks with her as he fills out his papers. 
ORDELL (holding a key) This one's for the ignition... (holding a little black box) ... but you gotta hit this thing to shut the alarm off and unlock the door. 
LOUIS What do I do? 
ORDELL You ain't got to do nothing. Just point at it and push the button. You'll hear the car go "bleep." That means the alarm's off and the doors are open. 
LOUIS Okay. 
Beaumont gesture inside his apartment. 
BEAUMONT Hey, c'mon in, man. I was just - you know - smokin' a fatty, watchin' TV. 
ORDELL Naw, man. I gotta be someplace. I was kinda hopin you could come with me. 
BEAUMONT What'd ya mean? 
ORDELL Look, I hate to be the kinda nigga, does a nigga a favor - then BAM - hits a nigga up for a favor in return. But I'm afraid I gotta be that kinda nigga. 
BEAUMONT What? 
ORDELL I need a favor. 
BEAUMONT That requires me goin out tonight? 
ORDELL A bit. 
BEAUMONT Aaaaawww man, I wasn't plannin' on goin no place. It's twelve o'clock, man. I'm home, I'm high - 
ORDELL Why the fuck you at home? Cause I spent ten thousand dollars gittin' your ass home. (changes tone) Look, I gotta problem. I need help, and you can help me. 
This has the desired effect. 
TIME CUT: 
WITH ORDELL WAITING OUTSIDE THE DOOR 
Beaumont comes out of the apartment, sporting Nikes and a Queen Latifah t-shirt. He locks his front door and walks with Ordell to his car. They talk the whole way. We STEDICAM in front of them the whole way. 
BEAUMONT What's the problem? 
ORDELL Well, it ain't so much a problem a a situation. Remember I sold those three M-60 machine guns outta the five I got? 
BEAUMONT Uh-huh. 
ORDELL I'm gonna sell the other two tonight. This group of Koreans in Koreatown have started a Neighborhood Watch kinda thing. And they want a few weapons so the neighborhood niggas know they mean business. So I'm gonna sell 'em my two machine guns tonight. Only problem, I aint never dealt with these Koreans before. Now I aint worried. Asians are by and large real dependable. They don't want no trouble. You might argue about price, but you aint gotta worry about them shootin' you in the back. But I got me kind of a rule. Never do business with nobody you ain't never done business with before without backup. That's why I need you, backup. 
BEAUMONT Man, I ain't ready to be goin' out nowhere - 
ORDELL - Let me finish. Can I finish? 
BEAUMONT Go ahead. 
CUT TO: 
TRUNK 
The trunk of a car is opened. 
Ordell bends down into the trunk and pulls out a pump action shotgun. Beaumont obviously doesn't want any part of any Ordell game that requires a pump action shotgun as a playing piece. 
ORDELL Now you're gonn be in the trunk holding onto the shotgun. And I'm going to tell them I'm opening up my trunk to show 'em my goods. I open up the trunk, you pop up, rack that bad boy. 
BEAUMONT Fuck that shit, man. I ain't shootin' anybody. 
ORDELL What the fuck I tell you. You don't hafta shoot nobody. Just hold the gun. They'll get the idea. 
BEAUMONT I ain't gittin' in that trunk. 
ORDELL We're only goin' to Koreatown. You'll be in there - ten minutes. 
BEAUMONT Uh-uh. I ain't riding in that trunk no minutes. Why don't I just ride with you? 
ORDELL You can't ride with me. The surprise effect is ninety percent of it. 
BEAUMONT Well, I'm sorry, man, but I ain't gittin' in that trunk. 
ORDELL I can't believe you do me this way. 
BEAUMONT I ain't doin' you no way. I just ain't climbin' in that trunk. I got a problem with small places. 
ORDELL Well, my ass has got a problem spending ten thousand dollars of my own goddam money to get ungrateful, peanut-head niggas outta jail, but I do it - 
BEAUMONT Look, man, I know I owe you - 
ORDELL - Well, if you owe me, git your ass in the trunk. 
BEAUMONT - I wanna help you, but I don't wanna be locked in the trunk of no car. 
ORDELL You think I wanted to spend ten thousand dollars on your ass? 
Beaumont starts to speak - 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Answer the question, nigga. Do you think I wanted to spend the thousand dollars on your ass? Yes or no? 
BEAUMONT Course you didn't. 
ORDELL But the only way to help you was to do that, so I did it. (pause) Okay, how 'bout this? After we're through fuckin' with these Koreans, I take you to Roscoe's Chicken and Waffles. My treat. 
Beaumont smiles. So does Ordell. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Just think, man. That Scoe's special, smothered in gravy and onions. Get a side of red beans and rice. Uuuuummmmm, that's some good eatin'. 
Beaumont and Ordell laugh together... the Beaumont says; 
BEAUMONT Now exactly how long I gotta be in this motherfucker. 
CUT TO: 
TRUNK 
Beaumont in the trunk, holding the shotgun. The trunk lid is SLAMMED closed. 
EXT. / INT. OLDSMOBILE - NIGHT 
Ordell walks around the car, climbs into the plush interior of the Olds and turns on the engine. It comes to life with a SOFT RUMBLE. He puts a tape in the player inside the dash. 
The tape is labeled "ORDELL'S JAMS." 
Cool, old-school R&B fills the cab. 
Ordell cruises, moving his head to the rhythm and mouthing the words. 
He drives for awhile, just groovin' on the music... 
... then stops. 
Ordell switches the engine and the music off. The cab goes black. 
He leans over the passenger seat, opening the glovebox. A tiny light turns on when the glovebox is opened. It's the only light in the cab. Ordell leaves it on. 
In silence he takes one glove out and puts it on his right hand. Then with his gloved hand, reaches in the glovebox and pulls out a five-shot .38 snubby. He closes the glovebox. 
The cab goes black. 
EXT. OLDSMOBILE - NIGHT 
The Olds is parked out in the middle of some urban nowhere. 
DARGUS Hi, I'm Detective Mark Dargus. L.A.P.D. can I ask what you have in that bag? 
JACKIE The usual things. I'm a flight attendant with Cabo Air. 
Young plainclothes cop RAY NICOLET, enters the scene. 
NICOLET Can I be of some assistance? 
As Jackie pulls the cigarettes (Davidoffs) from her purse, she says to Ray; 
JACKIE I doubt it. (to Dargus) Who's your friend? 
DARGUS This is Special Agent Ray Nicolet with Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. Would you mind if we looked in that bag? 
Jackie lights her cigarette with a yellow Bic lighter. 
JACKIE Would I mind? Do I have a choice? 
DARGUS You have the right to say "no." And I have the right to make you wait here with Ray while I go get a warrant. And if I don't want to go through all that trouble, I could just take you in on suspicion. 
JACKIE Suspicion of what? 
NICOLET All he wants to do is peek in your bag. I'll watch he doesn't take anything. 
Jackie shrugs and says; 
JACKIE Go ahead. 
Dargus lays the flight bag on the pavement, gets down on his haunches, and starts feeling through her things. 
CLOSEUP FLIGHT BAG 
A soiled blouse, uniform skirt, - then a manila envelope, a fat one, nine-by-twelve. 
Jackie watches him straighten the clasp... 
ENVELOPE 
Opens it. Out drops several packets of one hundred dollar bills secured with rubberbands. 
Nicolet whistles. 
Dargus looks up at her. 
DARGUS I'd say there's about, oh, fifty thousand dollars here. What would you say Ray? 
NICOLET That looks like fifty thousand dollars from here. 
JACKIE 
Not saying anything at the moment. 
DARGUS This is your money? 
JACKIE If I were to tell you "no it isn't..." 
Dargus smiles. 
DARGUS You should know if you bring in anything over ten thousand you have to declare it. You forgot or what? You could get a two hundred and fifty thousand dollar fine, plus two years in prison. Now you want to talk to us about it, or you want to talk to Customs? 
JACKIE I'm not saying another word. 
NICOLET Listen, Jackie, Hope you don't mind if I call you Jackie. They're a bunch of fuckin' pricks in Customs. Something about that job makes them kinda hard to get along with. Now, do you want to talk with a bunch of suspicious, disagreeable people like them, or a couple good-hearted guys like Mark and myself. 
Nicolet smiles. 
CLOSEUP JACKIE 
Doesn't smile back. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
CLOSEUP JACKIE 
Sitting in a chair facing the two offscreen detectives. Jackie lights up a cigarette. We don't leave the CLOSEUP until noted. 
INT. DARGUS OFFICE - DAY 
DARGUS (O.S.) Hey, this is my office. There's no smoking. 
JACKIE Arrest me. 
Nicolet laughs O.S. 
DARGUS (O.S.) We could, smart ass... or we could work out what's known as a Substantial Assistance Agreement. That is if you're willing to cooperate. Tell us who gave you the money and who you're giving it to. 
Jackie doesn't sat anything... she just smokes. 
NICOLET (O.S.) You got a good lawyer? 
DARGUS (O.S.) Can she afford a good one is the question. Otherwise she'll be in Sybill Brand three weeks easy before the Public Defender gets around to her. 
NICOLET (O.S.) Ever heard of a fella named Beaumont Livingston? 
Not a word. 
NICOLET (O.S.) (CONT'D) Don't know Beaumont? That's funny 'cause Beaumont knows you. Well he did know you, Beaumont was found in the trunk of a car - dead. Shot twice. Once in the head and once in the chest. 
Jackie, she puts the "ool" in "cool." 
NICOLET (O.S.) (CONT'D) I had the chance to talk to Beaumont yesterday. You see, like you, Beaumont found himself in some hot water. He was looking at ten years he was pretty sure he didn't want to do and was understandably concerned. Now maybe you don't know Beaumont, but Beaumont knew you, and maybe so does the guy who blew Beaumont's head off. 
Not a word. 
DARGUS (O.S.) If you don't want to talk to us, I guess we'll just have to hand you over to Customs. 
Jackie puts out her cigarette. 
JACKIE Okay, let's go. 
She stares down the cops. 
DARGUS AND NICOLET 
We cut to the detective and the special agent for the first time in the scene. 
DARGUS You know, Miss Brown, there's basically three types of people that we come along in the performance of our duty. One is, INNOCENT PEOPLE. Victims, witnesses, innocent bystanders... You ain't any of these. Then there's two; CRIMINALS. These sonabitches have dedicated their lives to a life outside the law. That ain't you either. Where you belong is the third category. The category we refer to as LOSERS. 
Jackie's eyes don't even narrow at the insult. She just says without expression; 
JACKIE I'm not a loser. 
DARGUS Oh, you're both? In 1985 you were flying for TWA and got busted for carrying drugs. You were carrying them for a pilot husband of yours. He did time and you got off. But that ended your career with the big airlines. Cut to thirteen years later. You're forty-four years of age. You're flying for the shittiest little shuttle-fucking piece of shit Mexican airline that there is. Where you make a whopping twelve-thousand dollars a year. That ain't a hulluva lot to show for a twenty year career. And to top it off, you're going to jail. Now true, the judge, even with your prior, will probably only give you a year or two. But this doesn't seem like the time of life you got years to throw away. (pause) Now, we don't like trying losers like they're criminals. But in the absence of a criminal, we will try you. Now, wasn't this money given to you by an American living in Mexico by the name of Cedric Walker? 
Jackie remains unmoved by this monologue. 
Nicolet joins back in. 
NICOLET You know, ol' Beaumont wasn't much for talkin', either. Yeah, he told us about you and Mr. Walker, but whoever the hell it was he worked for out here, he wouldn't say. Could it be the same person you were supposed to deliver this money to? 
JUDGE You have a recommendation for bail? 
DARGUS Yes, I do, your honor. Based on the defendant's prior conviction and the extreme possibility of flight due to her occupation, the State requests a bond of no less than twenty-five thousand. 
The Judge looks at the report, then at Jackie... 
JUDGE I'll set bond at ten thousand and set the date of August 14th for the arraignment. 
JACKIE When is that, your honor? 
JUDGE That's six weeks from now, Miss Brown. We'll continue this matter then. Owens, case 72242. 
Jackie sits down. 
Dargus sits down next to Nicolet. They smile and giggle together. 
Jackie sees them giggle like fifth graders. It fucking pisses her off. 
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE 
We go from a CLOSEUP of a boiling Jackie, to a perspective from the back of the courtroom. 
We see Jackie in the defendant's area. 
We see the two happy detectives walk past us on their way out of the courtroom. 
ORDELL 
Sits in the back, watching the proceedings without any expression. When he's seen enough, he stands up and out of the shot leaving an EMPTY FRAME. 
FADE TO BLACK 
TITLE CARD 
"MAX CHERRY" 
FADE UP ON: 
INT. MAX CHERRY'S OFFICE - DAY 
The bathroom door in Max's office. We hear a toilet flush behind it. The door opens, and Max Cherry emerges, zipping up his pants with a TV guide in his hand. 
He looks up and stops dead. 
Ordell sitting oh-so comfortably in the chair in front of Max's desk. 
ORDELL Unh... unh... unh... I din't hear you wash your hands. 
Max looks at Ordell, then takes his place behind his desk. 
MAX Comfortable? 
ORDELL The door was opened, so I just came right in. 
MAX I can see that. Why? 
ORDELL I got some more business for ya. 
MAX Oh, yeah? What did he do? 
ORDELL (O.S.) She is an airline stewardess. Got caught coming back from Mexico with some blow. They set her bond this afternoon at ten thousand. Now, what I was thinkin', you could use the ten thousand you owe me from Beaumont and move it over on to the stewardess. 
MAX The bond for possession is only a thousand. 
ORDELL They fuckin' wit' her. They callin' it Possession with Intent. A black woman in her forties gets busted with less than two ounces on her, they call that shit Intent. Same shit happened to a movie star. It's Possession. 
MAX It still sounds high. 
ORDELL She had, I believe it was... fifty grand on her, too. There was a cop at the hearing. Young guy with L.A.P.D. wanted her bond set at twenty-five thousand, saying there was a risk of flight. Jackie being a stewardess and all. 
MAX Before we start talking about stewardess, let's get Beaumont out of the way first. 
Sitting back in the chair - almost grinning - but not quite. 
ORDELL Somebody already did. 
MAX What? 
ORDELL You didn't hear? 
MAX Hear what? 
ORDELL Somebody with a grudge blew Beaumont's brains out - hey, that rhymes - blew Beaumont's brains out. 
MAX Did the police contact you? 
ORDELL Very first motherfuckin' thing they did. They see I put up a big money bond on my boy, they start thinking with that where-there's-smoke-there's fire logic. They roust my ass outta bed, ten o'clock in the morning. Fuckin' scare my woman, Sherona, half to death. She thought they were gonna take my ass away for sure. 
MAX The stewardess. Do you know her last name? 
ORDELL (smiles) Brown, Jackie Brown. 
MAX What does she do for you? 
ORDELL Who says she does anything for me? She's my friend. When my friends get into trouble, I like to help 'em out. 
MAX Beaumont worked for you. 
ORDELL That's what the police thought. I told them I'm unemployed, how could I have anybody work for me? Now I bail out Jackie, I'm liable to have the police on me again, huh? Wanting to know was she doing things for me, was she bringing me that money! 
MAX Was she? 
ORDELL Is this, me and you, like a lawyer- client relationship? The lawyer can't tell nothing he hears? 
MAX You're not my client until you get busted and I bond you out. 
ORDELL If there's no - what do you call it - confidentiality between us? Why would I tell you anything? 
MAX Cause you want me to know what a slick guy you are. You got stewardesses bringing you fifty grand. 
ORDELL Why would a stewardess bring me fifty grand? 
MAX You want me to speculate on what you do. I'd say you're in the drug business, except the money's moving in the wrong direction. Whatever you're into, you seem to be getting away with it, so more power to you. Okay you want another bond, and you want to move over the ten thousand you put down on Beaumont to the stewardess. That means paperwork. I have to get a death certificate, present it to the court, fill out a receipt for return of bond collateral, then type up another application. An indemnity agreement - 
ORDELL - Jackie aint got time for all that shit - 
MAX - I'm telling you what I have to do. What you have to do, in case you forgot, is come up with premium of a thousand bucks. 
ORDELL I got it. I just don't got it on me. 
MAX Well, come back when you do, and I'll bond out the stewardess. 
ORDELL Man, you know I'm good for it. Thousand bucks ain't shit. 
MAX If I don't see it in front of me, you're right. It ain't shit. 
ORDELL Man, you need to look at this with a little compassion. Jackie ain't no criminal. She ain't used to this kinda treatment. I mean, gangsters don't give a fuck - but for the average citizen, coupla nights in County fuck with your mind. 
MAX Ordell, this isn't a bar, an you don't have a tab. 
JACKIE I don't think so. 
MAX It's okay. It's a cop hangout. 
JACKIE Couldn't we just stop at a seven- eleven? 
MAX I thought you might want a drink? 
JACKIE I'd love one, but not there. 
MAX We could stop at the Hilton by the airport. 
JACKIE Is it dark? 
MAX It's kind of a sports bar 
JACKIE That doesn't sound dark. 
MAX Why does it need to be dark? 
JACKIE 'Cause I look like I just got outta jail, that's why. You droppin' me off at home, right? There's a place by me. 
MAX Great. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. THE COCKATOO INN - NIGHT 
A big neon sign of a cockatoo sits on op of a red brick inn. 
INT. THE COCKATOO INN - NIGHT 
CLOSEUP - A KNOB is pulled out. 
Jackie picks up a pack of Mild Seven's cigarettes from the bottom of a cigarette machine. She crosses the bar to join Max, sitting at a small table waiting for her to return. 
The Cockatoo Inn is just what Jackie was looking for. A dark and red cocktail lounge in Hawthorne off of Hawthorne Boulevard by the apartment where the stewardess lives (about ten minutes from LAX) 
The clientele of the Cockatoo is an older, black crowd and an even older white crowd who'd been coming here years before it became a black bar. 
A JUKEBOX plays soft, old-school R&B. 
Jackie and Max sit side by side at a small table, lit by a bar candle in a red glass thing. 
Max drinks Bushmills over crushed ice. Jackie drinks white wine. Jackie opens her Mild Sevens, offering one to Max. 
MAX No thanks, I quit three years ago. 
As she lights her cigarette. 
JACKIE You gain weight? 
MAX Ten pounds. I lose it and put it back on. 
JACKIE That's why I don't quit. If I can't fly anymore, I'm gonna have a bitch of a time gettin' my brand. 
MAX What's your brand? 
JACKIE Davidoffs. I get 'em in Mexico. They're hard to find here. I was locked up with the last two getting legal advice from a woman who was in for bustin' her boyfriend's head open with a baseball bat. 
MAX Was she helpful? 
JACKIE She was more helpful than the fuckin' Public Defender. (she takes a sip of wine) I don't know - I guess what I need is a lawyer, find out what my options are. 
MAX You know, I figured out the other day I've written something like' fifteen thousand bonds since I've been in the business. I'd say about eighty percent of them were at least drug related. If you want, I can help you look at your options. 
Jackie takes the talk in a different direction. 
JACKIE You're not tired of it? 
MAX (smiles) I am, as a matter of fact. 
A moment of silence between them, they both take drinks. 
MAX (CONT'D) What have they told you? 
JACKIE So far I've been told I can cooperate and get probation, maybe. Or, I can stand mute and get as much as five years. Does that sound right? 
MAX I'd say if you're tried and found guilty you won't get more than a year and a day. That's State time. Prison. 
JACKIE (under her breath) Shit. 
MAX But they won't want to take you to trial. They'll offer you simple Possession, a few months of County time, and a year or two probation. (pointing to her drink) How 'bout another? 
JACKIE Sure. 
Max gestures to an older black cocktail waitress named ROWEN for two more. 
MAX You know who put the dope in your bag? 
JACKIE Yeah, but that's not what this was about. They were fuckin waitin' for my ass. They knew I had that money, they even knew the amount. The one who searched my bag, from L.A.P.D., Dargus, hardly even looked at it. "Oh, I'd say there's fifty thousand here. What would you say?" But all they could do was threaten me and hand me over to Customs, and I could tell they didn't want to do that. 
MAX They wanted you to tell them what you know. 
JACKIE I had 'em too. I burnt those two Starky and Hutch motherfuckers down. Then their asses lucked out and found that coke. 
MAX What did they want to know? 
JACKIE Who gave me the money and who I was giving it to. And some guy they found in a trunk with his head blown off. Said it was him who told them 'bout me. 
The Waitress comes with the drinks. 
ROWEN Can I get you two some popcorn? 
MAX No, thanks. 
Rowen exits. 
MAX (CONT'D) That would be Beaumont Livingston. 
JACKIE That's him. How do you know 'em? 
MAX I wrote him on Monday. They found him dead on Tuesday. 
JACKIE Ordell pick up his bond? 
MAX Same as you. Ten thousand. 
JACKIE The federal agent kinda half hinted Ordell might of done Beaumont. 
MAX You mentioned a guy from L.A.P.D., but you didn't mention the Federal. 
JACKIE I didn't? 
MAX No, you didn't. What branch? 
JACKIE Ray Nicolet with Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. 
Max puts it together. 
JACKIE You're not asking the right questions. 
Then she walks past him back to the living room. She goes over to the halogen lamp, turning the light up brighter, then moves by the door, still standing and looking at Ordell in the kitchen doorway. 
JACKIE Beaumont Livingston. 
ORDELL I knew it. 
JACKIE And they asked if I knew Mr. Walker. 
Ordell by the halogen lamp. He turns it back to dim. 
ORDELL Yeah? 
JACKIE I didn't tell 'em anything. 
Ordell moves slowly towards Jackie. 
ORDELL My name come up? 
Jackie slowly shakes her head "no." 
Ordell directly in front of Jackie, he gently places his gloved hands on her shoulders. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) You say anything about me? 
Jackie shakes her head "no." 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Well, that's mighty honorable of you. 
Ordell's gloved fingertips move up her collarbone to her throat, gently touching her skin. Jackie locks eyes with his, but still shows no fear. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) This fella Beaumont, they say what happened to him? 
JACKIE They told me. 
At this moment the film becomes a: 
SPLIT SCREEN 
On the RIGHT-HAND SIDE is Ordell with his hands barely touching Jackie's throat. On the LEFT-HAND SIDE is Max driving home in his Seville. 
MAX IN CAR 
Max drives home, an almost moony romantic look no his face. He can't stop thinking about Jackie. During the night she'd have a gleam in her eyes, the look saying; "WE COULD HAVE FUN". Unless she was appraising kinda him with the look, making a judgment and what it said was; "I COULD USE YOU". Either way it was a turn-on. 
Max pulls into the driveway of his small house in Torrance. 
ORDELL AND JACKIE 
ORDELL Yeah, somebody musta been real mad at Beaumont. Or  they were afraid of what he might say to keep from doin some time. I'magine from time-to-time they asked you a whole shitload of questions. And you didn't give 'em no answer? 
Jackie shakes her head from side to side. 
Ordell moves his thumbs from her collarbone to the middle of her throat. 
ORDELL You scared of me? 
Jackie shakes her head from side to side without her eyes leaving his. Reaches over the seat 
ORDELL You got a reason to be nervous with me? 
With his hands on Jackie's throat, staring into the woman's eyes, from BELOW FRAME then feels something hard the fuck against his crotch. Neither break eye contact. 
Ordell hears a CLICK. 
Can't believe it. 
MAX IN CAR 
Max takes his keys, then to the glove box... 
THE GLOVE BOX 
The gun is gone. 
MAX Where is it? 
A CLOSEUP OF MAX'S GUN IN ORDELL ORDELL'S CROTCH 
ORDELL Is that what I think it is? 
JACKIE What do you think it is? 
CLOSEUP GUN IN CROTCH 
ORDELL I think it's a gun pressing against my dick. 
JACKIE You thought right... Now take your hands from around my throat, nigga. 
Ordell flashes his hustler's smile and lets go. 
END OF SPLIT SCREEN 
Jackie turns Ordell around, gun firmly in his back, and pushes him against the wall. 
ORDELL What the hell you doin'? 
JACKIE Shut your ass up and grab the wall! 
Jackie has Ordell against the wall and is frisking him the way a cop would. She finds the .22 pistol in his pocket 
ORDELL Now, baby, that's got nothin' to do with you. I just carry that. You been listenin' to them cops too much. 
JACKIE The cops didn't try and strangle my ass. 
ORDELL Damn, Jackie, I was just playin' with you. 
JACKIE Well, I ain't playin with you. I'm gonna unload both these motherfuckers, you don't do what I tell you. Understand what I'm saying? 
ORDELL Baby, I ain't come here - 
She shoves both guns in Ordell's back. 
JACKIE I said, you understand what I'm saying 
ORDELL I understand woman, damn! 
JACKIE Go sit over in that chair. 
Ordell moves over to a chair across from the couch. Ordell still tries bullshit... 
ORDELL I'm tellin' you, those cops been fuckin' wit your mind. They turn black against black, that's how they do. 
JACKIE Shut your raggedy ass up and sit down. 
Ordell sits. 
JACKIE (CONT'D) Put both hands behind our head. 
Jackie ends her knees and goes through a stack of records leaned up against the wall on the floor. 
JACKIE I couldn't wait till I got home last night and wash my hair. 
MAX It looks nice. 
She finds a record, takes it out of the pile, removes the album from the sleeve, and places it on her stereo turntable. 
MAX (CONT'D) You never got into the whole CD revolution? 
JACKIE I got a few. But I can't afford to start all over again. I got too much time and money invested in my records. 
The song starts; it's an old romantic soul music number from the early seventies. 
MAX Yeah, but you can't get new stuff on records. 
Jackie picks up her cigarettes off the coffee table. 
JACKIE I don't buy new stuff that often. 
Jackie enters the kitchen door frame by Max. She lights a cigarette and stands. 
Max listens to the soul song. 
MAX This is pretty. 
JACKIE Uh-huh. 
MAX Who is this? 
JACKIE The Delfonics. 
MAX 
JACKIE '74, I think. 
MAX It's nice. 
They listen for a moment. 
JACKIE I called in sick this morning. As far as the airline knows, I'm still available. 
MAX Are you? 
JACKIE I don't know yet. 'm going to talk with Dargus and Nicolet today. Do what you suggested. Offer to help and see what happens. 
MAX What I meant was have a lawyer do the negotiating for you. 
JACKIE I want to talk to them first. I know more now about Ordell's money. 
MAX Well, if the A.T.F. guy is the one who wants you, that'll only interest him up to a point. 
JACKIE It's a lot of money. About a half-a- million dollars. All of it in Cabo in safe deposit boxes and more comin in. 
MAX How'd you find that out? 
JACKIE He told me last night. 
MAX He called you? 
JACKIE He came by. 
MAX What?... What'd you do? 
JACKIE We talked. 
Jackie goes back in the kitchen. Coffee's almost there, but not quite. She pulls down two mugs from a cabinet. 
JACKIE (CONT'D) He had his doubts at first. But he's always trusted me an wants more than anything to believe he still can. 
MAX Why? 
JACKIE He needs me. Without me all that money is just gonna sit over there in Cabo. Sugar? 
MAX No thanks. There's gotta be other ways to get it out. 
She pours the coffee. 
JACKIE Maybe, but 'm the only one he's ever used. He can't trust his other people. They're crooks. He can try bringing I in himself, but Ordell sure don't want to go through no Customs line. Either he recruits another Cabo stewardess, or he continues to trust me. I made him feel he still can. 
Jackie walks to the table with the two coffee mugs and sits down. 
MAX How do you get it out? 
JACKIE Same way I been don', but first they got to let me go back to work. 
MAX You're gonna offer to set him up? 
JACKIE If I get let off. Otherwise, fuck 'em. 
MAX It's very possible Ordell's killed somebody. 
JACKIE I ain't goin' to jail, and I ain't doin' that probation thing again. 
Max watches her a moment 
Jackie takes a drink of coffee. 
JACKIE (CONT'D) How do you feel about getting old? 
MAX You're not old. You look great. 
JACKIE I'm asking how you feel. Does it bother you? 
MAX It's not really something I think about. 
JACKIE Really? 
MAX Okay, I'm a little sensitive about my hair. It started falling out ten years ago. So I did something about it. 
JACKIE How'd you feel about it? 
MAX I'm fine with it, or I wouldn't of done it, I did it to feel better about myself, and I do. When I look in the mirror it looks like me. 
JACKIE It's different with men. 
MAX You know, I can't really feel too sorry for you in that department. 
Jackie smiles. 
MAX (CONT'D) In fact, I'd make a bet that except possibly for an Afro - you look exactly the same as you did at twenty nine. 
Jackie smiles into her coffee. 
JACKIE My ass ain't the same. 
MAX Bigger? 
JACKIE Yeah. 
CUT TO: 
FADE UP ON ON TV 
Helmut Berger slaps a woman in the face with a newspaper, proclaiming he's the "mad dog." The film is an Italian Policier from the seventies. 
Melanie sits in a comfy chair long-ways, bare legs hanging over the arm. As she watches the TV, she picks up a big bong with it's own handle. He takes a hit. Melanie's dressed in her usual Melanie-uniform of shorts and a loose top. 
The front door opens, and Ordell and Louis walk through it carrying shopping bags. 
ORDELL We're back. 
MELANIE 'Ola! 
We notice that Louis is sportin' new duds. Louis' new "look" is a retro seventies-style bowling shirt and black jeans. 
Melanie notices the change. 
MELANIE (CONT'D) Hey, hey, hey. I think somebody's got some new clothes. 
ORDELL We been shoppin'. Can't have my boy running around lookin' like a bum on the street. 
LOUIS I didn't look like a bum. 
ORDELL But you did have a Salvation Army- thing going. 
Ordell notices the bong in her hand and the smoke in the air. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Goddam, girl. You gettin' high already. It's only two o'clock. 
Melanie smiles. 
MELANIE It's that late? 
Louis sits on the couch. He smiles at the comeback. 
ORDELL Ha-ha-ha. I'm serious, you smoke too much of that shit. That shit robs you of your ambition. 
MELANIE Not if your ambition is to get high and watch TV. 
Melanie and Louis laugh. 
The phone rings. 
ORDELL You two a coupla Cheech and Chongs, ain't ya. (he moves towards the phone - to Melanie) Oh, that's okay, I'll get it. 
He picks it up. 
ORDELL Hello. (pause) Hey, Jackie... (throwing a hard look at Melanie) 
No, Jackie, I didn't get your message. 
MELANIE I was gonna tell you... 
Ordell gives her a "silence" gesture and look. 
Melanie trades a look with Louis like "I'm in trouble," all the while smiling like a shark. 
Louis smiles to himself. 
Melanie holds up the bong, offering him a hit. 
Ordell's on the phone. 
ORDELL No, not on the phone, let's meet somewhere. But you gotta make sure they ain't followin' you... 
Louis has the bong in front of him. 
Melanie stays in her chair long-ways. 
LOUIS Is it ready to go? 
MELANIE Yeah, there's another hit left. 
Louis takes it. 
Ordell's on the phone. 
INT. COCKATOO INN 
Jackie sits at the bar talking on their phone. We see both sides. 
JACKIE The Cockatoo Inn. 
ORDELL The Cockatoo Inn? Where's that? 
JACKIE It's right on Hawthorne Boulevard and Manhattan Beach Boulevard. It's red brick... 
ORDELL Oh, wait, you mean that place that has the big sign with a rooster on it? 
JACKIE It's a cockatoo. 
Louis exhales his smoke, does an older man cough. 
MELANIE You okay? 
LOUIS Yeah, I'm just gettin' old. I can't smoke or laugh now it seems without coughing. 
MELANIE Coughing opens up the capillaries. When you cough, you're getting air - in this case smoke - to parts of the lung that don't normally get used. Coughing's good - gets ya higher. My dad coughs when he smokes all the time. 
Ordell hangs up the phone. 
ORDELL (to Louis) Hey, Louis, I have to go out awhile. So since you like gettin' high so much, why don't you stay here with Melanie, get high, and watch cartoons? 
Louis with a smile. 
LOUIS Way ahead of you. 
Melanie laughs. 
Ordell takes the remote control and turns the station till he finds a channel with cartoons. 
ORDELL So you just watch this for the next three hours, and I'll be back. Then, when I'm through with all my business, I'll get high. I get high at night. Walk me to the door, space girl. 
Melanie climbs out of the chair and walks Ordell to the door, 
Ordell says to her in the doorway; 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Hope you don't mind keeping him company. 
MELANIE No problem. 
ORDELL Try not to rip his clothes off 'em they're new. 
Melanie gives him a sarcastic, "Oh, you're so funny" look. 
Ordell kisses her quick on the mouth, then says past her; 
ORDELL (CONT'D) I'll be back in an hour, man. Just hang with Mel. 
MELANIE (O.S.) Now that's over, let's get to know each other. 
INT. MUSIC STORE - DAY 
CLOSEUP a rack of CDs all beginning with "D" are flipped through, till it stops on one CD, "The Best of the DELFONICS." 
Max is standing in he soul music section o a music store. He lifts out the CD and turns it over. 
It has the song Jackie played this morning. 
He smiles and takes the CD up to the register. 
CLOSEUP the COCKATOO INN neon sign, unlit during the day. 
INT. THE COCKATOO INN - DAY 
Ordell walks into the dark red cocktail lounge in the middle of the day and sees Jackie sitting at the bar drinking a white wine. Old-school soul plays on the jukebox. He sits next to her. 
ORDELL I gotta remember this place. This is all right. Two minutes from your crib, ten minutes from your work. Not bad... 
A black bartender named FLOYD approaches Ordell. 
FLOYD What's your drink, brother? 
ORDELL Screwdriver. 
FLOYD (to Jackie) How you doin'? 
JACKIE I'm fine. 
FLOYD Yes, you are. 
Jackie smiles. 
Floyd makes Ordell's drink. 
ORDELL I bet you come here on a Saturday night, you need nigga repellent keep 'em off your ass. 
JACKIE I do okay. 
ORDELL You a fine lookin' woman, Jackie. I bet you do a damn sight better than okay. You think anybody followed you? 
JACKIE I don't think so, but it don't really matter. They know I'm meeting you. 
ORDELL How the fuck they know that? 
JACKIE I told them. 
Floyd comes back with Ordell's screwdriver. 
FLOYD Three twenty-five. 
Ordell digs in his pocket and gives Floyd a five. 
ORDELL Keep it. 
FLOYD Thank you, sir. 
Floyd leaves. 
ORDELL (to Jackie) You told em? You told em it's me? 
JACKIE They already know it's you. 
ORDELL Well, shit. That don't mean you gotta confirm it! 
JACKIE Look, the only way I can get permission to fly is if I agree to help them. Which is what I have to appear to be doing. So I give them something they already know. You. 
ORDELL Didja tell 'em anything else? 
JACKIE I told them you got a half a million dollars in Mexico, and you want me to bring it here. 
Ordell freaks. 
ORDELL You told them that? 
JACKIE It's true, isn't it? 
ORDELL What the fuck's that got to do with it? 
JACKIE They know I'm delivering for you. I mention the half-million - they don't give a fuck about that - They want you with guns. So I say, well, if you want proof he's getting paid for selling them, let me bring the money in. 
ORDELL What did they say? 
Jackie smiles. 
JACKIE Yes. 
Ordell smiles. 
They both slap palms. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MELANIE'S BEACH APARTMENT - DAY 
CLOSEUP - Louis taking a hit off Melanie's bong. 
Louis and Melanie are back in the living room, kicking back, taking bong hits. 
As Louis gets his hit, Melanie talks; 
MELANI ... so first he tries to get into the cocaine business but realizes right away that shit's too competitive. Piss the wrong person off, you get shot. So he says, fuck that - moves over to guns. You can sell guns wherever there's a demand. No one gives a shit. He acts like he's this big international arms dealer, when, come on, the only people he ever sold to were dopers. 
Louis finishes his hit and slides the bong back across the coffee table to Melanie. 
LOUIS He seems to be making out. 
Referring to the bong. 
MELANIE Is it dead? 
LOUIS Yeah. 
She starts preparing a bowl. 
MELANIE Well, so far he is. But you have to admit he's not too bright. 
LOUIS I wouldn't go so far as to say that. 
Melanie still preparing her bowl. 
MELANIE He moves his lips when he reads, what does that tell ya. Let's say he's streetwise. I'll give 'im that. He's still a fuck-up. 
She takes a major bong hit... holds in the smoke... then while holding in the smoke, says; 
MELANIE (CONT'D) He killed a man worked for him the other night. 
LOUIS So what are you trying to tell me? I should get out of here? 
We join in mid-conversation. 
JACKIE The money's in a Broadway shopping bag. I get some food, and sit down here in the food court. Then your girl comes - you got somebody yet? 
ORDELL Uh-huh. 
JACKIE Who? 
ORDELL What'd you care? 
JACKIE Look, it's my ass facin' the penitentiary. You send some hard- headed roc whore, and she fucks things up. 
ORDELL I ain't gonna send no roc whore. The woman's cool, I promise. 
INT. DEL AMO MALL - U.A. CINEMAS - DAY 
We're outside the Del Amo UA Cinemas, a six-screen theater that's been in the Del Amo Mall since the early seventies. A small afternoon crowd is exiting the cinema, having just watched their matinee. Max Cherry is among them. He exits the theater, and strolls through the mall. 
BACK TO JACKIE AND ORDELL 
In the food court. 
Ordell rises from the table. 
Jackie moves a Broadway bag towards him. 
JACKIE Don't forget your bag. 
He takes it. 
We follow with Ordell out of the food court, when he stops... 
... He see Max Cherry strolling through the mall. 
Ordell almost steps into a store to get out of view. "What the fuck is Max Cherry doing here?" 
As Ordell watches, he sees Max head towards the food court. 
MAX walks into the food court. He stands looking a all the international fast food choices in front of him. As he tries to decide, he hears from behind him; 
JACKIE (O.S.) Max. 
Max turns and sees Jackie siting there drinking her iced tea, smoking her Mild Seven, and smiling up at him. 
Max smiles back. 
MAX Well, hello. 
JACKIE Surprise. 
He approaches her table. 
MAX I walked right past you. 
JACKIE I know, ignoring me. What're you up to? 
MAX Catching a movie. 
JACKIE What'd ya see? 
MAX "American Prseident" 
JACKIE How was it? 
MAX Pretty good. Me and Annette Bening are goin steady. 
JACKIE Oh, are you? Does she know that? 
MAX No... (sitting down at the table) ... I don't believe she's ever heard of me. But that doesn't mean we're not going steady. 
BACK TO ORDELL 
Watching Max sit down and make himself comfortable at Jackie's table. 
ORDELL (to himself) What's up with this shit. 
BACK TO MAX AND JACKIE 
MAX I think falling in live with movie stars is something that happens to a man as he gets older. 
JACKIE Does it happen to all men? 
MAX Well, I'd never be so bold as to speak for all men, but as or myself and a few of my friends, that's definitely the case. There's a lot of actresses out there you like, and there's some you have crushes on. But there's always one who you love. And with her it's sorta like going steady. 
JACKIE And Annette's it for you? 
MAX For now. These relationships never last too long. 
With a smile on her face; 
JACKIE That's a goddam man for ya. Can't even be faithful to a fuckin' movie star. 
Max smiles. 
JACKIE Who was your girl before Annette? 
MAX Sandra Bullock. You know her? 
JACKIE Yeah, she's the girl who drove the bus in "Speed." She's cute. 
MAX She's adorable. But I had to end it. 
JACKIE Why? 
MAX I'm old enough to be her father. 
JACKIE How old's Annette? 
MAX I don't care. 
Gesturing to the Broadway bags on the table. 
MAX What're you, a bag lady? 
JACKIE I go back to work tomorrow. 
MAX You talk them into it? 
JACKIE They seem to like the idea. 
MAX Bring the money in and they follow it? 
JACKIE Yea, but I'm going to dress it up. Put the money in a shopping bag and hand it to someone I meet here. 
MAX You don't actually do it that way? 
JACKIE He always just picked it up at my place. But with A.T.F. involved, I want to stage it. You know, make it look more intriguing, like we know what the fuck we're doin'. Then it's up to Ray Nicolet, the A.T. F. guy to follow the shopping bag. 
MAX Make the delivery somewhere in the mall. 
MAX Which one? 
JACKIE If you had a chance, unemployed now, to walk off with a half-million dollars, would you take it? 
MAX I believe I said I'd be tempted. 
Jackie smiles at him behind cigarette smoke. 
MAX Don't even think about it. You could get yourself killed go to prison... 
CLOSEUP JACKIE 
JACKIE What if I've figured a way? 
Hold for a few beats, then... 
FADE TO BLACK. 
TITLE CARD: 
"MONEY EXCHANGE 10,000" 
Over this card, we hear an airplane landing. 
FADE UP: 
CLOSEUP JACKIE 
Back at work, standing at the exit of her plane. All the passengers are filtering out. She says goodbye. 
JACKIE Bye bye... Bye now... Goodbye Bye bye... Bye bye... Goodbye 
INT. LAX PARKING STRUCTURE - DAY 
Jackie, wearing her stewardess uniform, walks into the LAX parking structure, pulling her bad on wheels behind her. 
Nicolet and Dargus are waiting for her. 
NICOLET We gotta stop meeting this way. 
Jackie smiles. They all fall in step towards Jackie's Honda. 
INT. JACKIE'S HONDA - DAY 
The two cops and the black woman sit parked in her Honda. She, behind the wheel, Nicolet next to her in the passenger seat, Dargus in the backseat. Nicolet has the flight bag in his lap. He's taking out the manila envelope with the ten thousand inside. Their demeanor is very different from the first time they met. The three now almost act like friends. 
DARGUS How was your flight? 
JACKIE Fine. 
DARGUS Bet you're happy to be working again. 
NICOLET This is A.T.F. agent Ray Nicolet, Jackie Brown, Ordell Robbie money exchange trial run. It's three p.m., July 4th 1997. The location is the parking structure at LAX. 
JACKIE What are you doing? 
Pointing to a small mike on his lapel. 
NICOLET I'm recording this. 
JACKIE I thought you were going to let this one through. 
DARGUS We are. Don't worry about it. 
NICOLET Every step of this goes in my report. (back to report voice) I am now taking a manila envelope from the subject's flight bag. 
He opens it and takes out the ten thousand dollars. 
NICOLET (CONT'D) The envelope contains currency... all the same denomination, one-hundred- dollar bills. Now, I'm counting it. 
DARGUS What time do you have to be there? 
JACKIE Four thirty. I'm meeting a woman. 
DARGUS What's her name? 
JACKIE He wouldn't say. You gonna follow her? 
DARGUS She leaves, somebody'll be on her. 
JACKIE But you're not going to stop her? 
Nicolet finishes counting, then hushes them up. 
NICOLET The envelope contains ten thousand dollars. The subject will be delivering the currency in a... 
JACKIE A Broadway shopping bag. 
She holds it up. 
NICOLET A Broadway shopping bag. A large bag with handles and brown lettering. 
EXT. DEL AMO MALL - DAY 
The huge Del Amo Mall. 
INT. DEL AMO MALL - FOOD COURT - DAY 
The Del Amo Mall on another lazy midday in the middle of the week. 
Max rides up an escalator in the mall. He casually strolls through the mall, goes into a cappuccino bar called "BUSTA CAP" across from the food court. Walking up to the counter; 
MAX Caf mocha. 
BUSTA CAP GIRL You want whipped cream on that? 
MAX No, thanks. 
Max checks his watch: 4:30. He looks over at the food court and spots Jackie sitting at a table by herself. 
FLASH ON: 
INT. JACKIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Jackie on the phone with Max, dressed for bed (long t- shirt and panties). 
JACKIE Think of it as money that shouldn't even be here. I mean does anybody have a right to it? 
INT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - NIGHT 
Max in his office on the phone. 
MAX The feds. It's evidence. 
JACKIE It may be evidence once they get their hands on it, but right now it's only money. 
BACK TO MAX AT THE MALL 
He ponders his words as he watches her from a distance. 
MAX (to himself) It could work... If she handles the cops right, I could work... 
He hits 'play' on the dash CD player. The Delfonics fill the cab of the Caddy. 
CUT TO: 
BLACK 
A garage door is lifted open, revealing Ordell and Louis. 
EXT. STORAGE FACLITY - DAY 
Ordell and Louis are at Mr. Robbie's storage facility. A VAN is backed up nect to the opening. The facility is pitch black. Ordell ahs a big flashlight in his hand. 
ORDELL Check this out. 
He turns on the flashlight. 
He shines the beam into darkness. We see the facility is filled to the gills with machine guns, shotguns, uzis, a rocket launcher, and handguns of many types. 
LOUIS How much is there? 
ORDELL Over half-million dollars worth of merchandise. 
Ordell opens the back doors of the van. They start unloading machine guns and boxes of ammo. 
LOUIS Can I ask you about Melanie? 
ORDELL Sure. 
LOUIS What's your relationship? 
ORDELL She one of the women I got set up. I got Melanie in Hermosa Beach. I rent Simone a small house in Compton, and about four blocks away I got me this nineteen-year-old country girl named Sheronda. I found her waitin' for a bus two days outta Alabama, barefoot, country as a chicken coop. Took her to my house in Compton, told her it was Hollywood. 
LOUIS She believed you? 
ORDELL Hell, yeah. To her dumb country ass, Compton is Hollywood. Close as she's ever been, anyway. 
They both laugh together. 
LOUIS Do you trust Melanie? 
Ordell stops unloading. 
ORDELL If this is about you fucked Melanie, I don't give a damn. I ain't a fool. I leave you alone with a bitch like Melanie, you're gonna be fuckin' that twenty minutes after I'm out the door. So say "thank you" and I'll tell you, "you're welcome." 
LOUIS That's not what I meant when I asked did you trust her. 
Ordell looks at him. 
ORDELL She tryin' to work your ass against me, ain't she? 
LOUIS Yep. 
ORDELL You didn't even hafta say it. I know the woman. 
LOUIS Well, why the fuck keep her around? 
ORDELL (smiling) 'Cause she my fine little surfer gal. She can't do me no harm. Fact she think she can play you against me shows how little she knows. You could teach that bitch for days how it is 'tween me an you, she never understand a damn word. 
LOUIS Why do you let someone know your business you can't trust? 
ORDELL I don't hafta trust her, I know her. 
LOUIS What does that mean? 
ORDELL You can't trust Melanie. But you can always trust Melanie to be Melanie. 
Louis starts unloading. 
LOUIS I still don't understand why you keep her around. 
ORDELL I told you, man. (smiling) She my fine little surfer gal. 
EXT. MELANIE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 
EXTREME CLOSEUP - Jackie's finger presses a small black button next to the handwritten name, "M. RALSTON." 
EXTREME CLOSEUP SPEAKER BOX 
MELANIE'S VOICE (O.S.) (coming out of it) What? 
JACKIE 
Bends down to talk in the speaker. 
JACKIE It's Jackie. 
INT. MELANIE'S APARTMENT HALLWAY - DAY 
Jackie walks down the hallway and finds the door. 
She rings the doorbell. 
The door opens, she sees Melanie (for the first time) on the other side. Melanie, dressed in a t-shirt, cut offs, doesn't say a word - just turns around and walks away. 
Once Melanie leaves, she sees Ordell standing inside the apartment, screwdriver in hand, yelling after Melanie; 
ORDEL ... Now she's gonna pout... 
He turns his attention to Jackie. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Hey, Jackie, c'mon in. 
Jackie steps inside. 
She sees Louis (for the first time) sitting on the couch. 
Ordell says to Louis, but loud enough for Melanie in the other room to hear; 
ORDELL (CONT'D) She gonna hafta find her sandals... find her bag... find her sunglasses... take twenty damn minutes get her ass out the door. (to Jackie) Jackie - his is Louis, Louis - Jackie. And the chick stompin' around in the other room is Melanie. 
Melanie comes out of the bedroom with her sunglasses, sandals, bag strung across her shoulders and her keys in her hand. She makes a bee-line towards the door without saying nothin' to nobody. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) You have a nice time, hear? 
The door SLAMS behind her. 
Ordell looks to Jackie, raises his screwdriver and says; 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Drink? 
JACKIE I need to talk to you alone. 
EXT. MELANIE'S APARTMENT - BALCONY - DAY 
Ordell and Jackie on the balcony. 
JACKIE I don't want no more fuckin' surprises. We do this the way I laid it out, or we don't do it at all. 
BEGINNING OF SHOT 
The camera picks Jackie up through the window, walking into the place and going up to the bar... 
A female bartender in her mid-twenties, wearing a plaid workshirt, named WANDA, goes to Jackie. 
JACKIE Do you have a phone? 
WANDA Yeah, it's in the back. 
JACKIE Thanks. 
... We follow with her to the back of the bar... the MUSIC is LOUD... the phone booth is occupied by a fat older GUY wearing surf clothes and sporting a mustache like a walrus. Jackie waits for him to finish his call... As she waits, the CAMERA MOVES BACK... until a blonde head of hair comes into the f.g.... 
The CAMERA MOVES around to a CLOSEUP ON MELANIE, sucking on a beer, moving her head to the music, and watching Jackie. She smiles and steps OUT OF FRAME. 
END OF SHOT 
Jackie hears behind her; 
MELANIE (O.S.) Hey! 
Jackie turns and sees Melanie holding a beer, standing behind her. 
JACKIE Oh, hi. 
MELANIE Buy ya a beer? 
JACKIE I'm waiting for the phone. 
MELANIE Good luck. That guy's been in there since I got here. 
JACKIE Well, I guess I better look for another one, then. Thanks, anyway. 
Jackie turns to leave. 
MELANIE I know what you and Ordell got goin'. You sit down and have a beer with me. I'll tell you a secret. 
Jackie looks at her a moment. 
JACKIE Sure. 
MELANIE Great... (calling to the bartender) ... Wanda! 
Wanda approaches. 
WANDA What? 
MELANIE This lady is thirsty. 
WANDA What do you want? 
MELANIE What's on tap? 
WANDA Coors, Sam, Rolling Rock, and Killian's Red. 
JACKIE Killian's. 
MELANIE Better get me another Sam's. (to Jackie) Join me in a Jaeger shot? 
JACKIE Uh-uh. 
MELANIE Gimme one anyway. 
WANDA You got it. 
Wanda goes away. Jackie and Melanie sit at the bar. The MUSIC is LOUD, and they have to talk over it. Melanie moves her head to it during the conversation. 
JACKIE How long you been with Ordell? 
MELANIE This time? Almost a year. I've known him forever. 
JACKIE What were you two fighting about? 
MELANIE He told me to go outside. (imitating Ordell's voice) "You may leave us now." It's all part of his pathetic attempt to be "the man." You know Mr. Walker don't you? 
Jackie nods "yes." 
MELANIE (CONT'D) Mr. Walker's my buddy. Ask him about Ordell. 
JACKIE That coke was yours, wasn't it? 
Melanie makes a face to show pain. 
MELANIE Oh, man, listen. I'm sorry about that. I hope they don't come down on you on my account. Ordell shoulda told you it was in your bag. 
Wanda brings the drinks. 
WANDA Seven dollars. 
Melanie digs in her purse for the money. 
JACKIE He said he didn't know about it. 
MELANIE (digging in her purse) You believe that? Yeah, well, I guess you have to trust him. (pulls out a ten) I'd have second thoughts on that, but then I know 'em. 
Melanie takes her Jaeger shot, lets it go down, then continues. 
MELANIE (CONT'D) He killed a guy who works for him the other day. 
JACKIE Beaumont Livingston? 
MELANIE You already knew that? 
JACKIE Kinda. 
MELANIE So tell me. Having all that money in your flight bag - Is it tempting? 
Jackie nods 'yes', as she sips her beer. 
MELANIE (CONT'D) I tell you. If Ordell ever sent me to carry in ten thousand dollars, that would be the last motherfuckin' time he saw me. The next trip you're gonna have over half-a-million. If you thought of cutting Ordell out, I sure as hell wouldn't blame you. 
Jackie smiles. 
MELANIE (CONT'D) You think I'm kidding? 
JACKIE Dreaming. 
MELANIE You know how easy it would be? He won't be anywhere near that mall. Pull one more switch, up front. That's it. half-a-million dollars. Need help? 
JACKIE (smiling) Keep it between us girls? 
MELANIE What's that fucker ever done for us? 
JACKIE (getting off the barstool) I don't think so, but thanks for the beer. 
Jackie leaves. 
CLOSEUP MELANIE 
LOUIS Don't say anything else, okay? I'm telling you, keep your mouth shut. 
Melanie was surprised by the spin, but is about to say something anyway when Louis put his hand up and says; 
LOUIS I mean it. Don't say one fuckin' word. 
MELANIE Okay, Lou-is. 
That did it! 
Louis whips out the Beretta Ordell gave him, shoots her... BAM... in the belly. 
She bounces OFF one of the cars and goes down. 
BAM... Louis shoots her again on the ground. 
One; to make sure. Two; cause it felt good. 
Then he hurries of for his car. WE FOLLOW IN FRONT OF HIM. He looks around, then yells out; 
LOUIS See, just where I fuckin' said it was! 
He hops in the car, and throws it into reverse. 
We can se Melanie's bare legs sticking out from a row of cars. Louis stops the Toyota alongside the dead Melanie, and yells through the passenger window; 
LOUIS Hey, look. I found it! 
He drives away. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. PARKING LOT - DEL AMO MALL - DAY 
Max Cherry's Cadillac Seville pulls up to a lined space in the parking lot. 
SUBTITLE APPEARS BELOW: 
"TIME: 4:04" 
Max gets out of his car and casually strolls towards the Del Amo Mall. 
INT. ROBINSON'S/MAY - DAY 
Max, hands in pocket, strolls unhurriedly through the Robinson's/May store. 
He walks around the store, keeping one eye peeled toward the Designer Clothes section. He walks up to a jewelry counter and begins looking at he pieces in the display case, when a pretty, young SALESGIRL comes up to him. 
SALESGIRL Can I show you something? 
MAX Not right now. I'm just killing time waiting for my wife. But thanks, anyway. 
SALESGIRL Sure thing. If anything grabs you, don't be shy. 
MAX Thanks, I won't. 
She goes off. 
He looks towards Designer Clothes and sees Jackie walking out of the fitting room wearing the cool black suit. 
AMY Oh, my God. You look so cool. 
Jackie moves over to the mirror and checks herself out. 
Max looks back to the jewelry display case, saying under his breath; 
MAX (CONT'D) (low) And away we go. 
Jackie looks at her reflection in the mirror. Then she lifts her eyes, meeting Max's across the room. Max gives her a nod of his head to show he approves. Jackie smiles and breaks contact, turning to Amy. We hear her say from a distance. "This looks pretty good on me." 
Max hears a commotion behind him and turns to see Louis and Melanie hurriedly making their way towards Designer Clothes. 
He turns his attention back to browsing through dresses on a rack. 
He sees Louis and Melanie squabbling. 
He sees Jackie disappear into the fitting room. 
He sees Amy leaving the fitting room entrance. 
He watches Melanie, by herself, watch Amy leave. Melanie watches the fitting room for a few moments. Gathering her courage, then makes her move, entering the fitting room. 
Max smiles to himself, "so far so good" he thinks. He throws a look towards Louis, only to see Louis staring dead at him with an unhappy look on his face. Max returns the look with a smile and a wave then turns his back on his before he can see a reaction. 
Max continues his fake browsing. 
He sees Melanie come out of the fitting room carrying a Robinson's/May bag close to her chest. 
She and Louis disappear. 
He sees Jackie come out of the fitting room, go over to Amy and buy the dress. Jackie goes into her act, acting agitated and distracted as she talks to Amy, pays with cash, then leaves stopping to say; 
JACKIE Oh, somebody left a shopping bag in there. Looks like beach towels. 
She's gone. 
Amy is left alone by the cashier counter. 
It's Max's turn. 
As Max looks at Amy, then at the fitting room entrance, he says to himself; 
MAX Max, old boy. You've spent nineteen years dealing with people who take incredible risks. You walk over to that counter, you're gonna find out what it's like. 
Max takes a few moments... 
... then walks over to Amy. 
MAX Excuse me, but my wife thinks she left a bag of beach towels in the fitting room? 
AMY Yeah, I think they're back there. Go get 'em. There's nobody in there. I think they're in the last stall. 
MAX Thanks. 
Max walks toward the fitting room, enters it, walks down the length of stalls, and stops in front of the last one. 
He opens the door to the stall. Sitting in the corner is the Robinson's/May bag. He walks over to it, lifts out the towels, and sees all that money. He replaces the towels, picks up the bag and leaves. HE walks across the Designer Clothes, passes by Amy, says; 
MAX Got 'em, thanks. 
AMY Sure thing. 
Max walks unhurriedly toward the door that leads to the parking lot. 
EXT. PARKING LOT - DEL AMO MALL - DAY 
He's outside; nobody's stopped him. He keeps walking towards his blue Seville. He keeps walking unhurriedly, never looking back. He gets to his car, uses opening the car door as an excuse to look back at the mall. 
It's normal. Nobody's after him, nobody's watching him. He made it. It worked. 
Max on the other end behind his desk. Winston sitting on the edge of the desk listening. 
MAX I've been looking for you. 
Ordell's up and off the couch pacing. 
ORDELL You know who this is? 
MAX Mister Robbie, isn't it? I have the ten thousand you put up. Isn't that why you called. 
Ordell doesn't say anything. 
MAX (CONT'D) The bond collateral on Beaumont Livingston you moved over to cover Miss Brown, remember? 
ORDELL She got off, huh? 
MAX They decided to no-file. Tell me where you are and I'll bring you your money. 
Ordell doesn't say anything. 
MAX (CONT'D) You still there? 
ORDELL Looky here, I know you helped her and I know you know what I want Jackie can tell me any story come in that pretty head of hers. Long as at the end of that story, she hands over my money. She do that, we're still friends. Now, she don't wanna be my friend no more, tell her to think about ol' Louis. And if she tries to turn me in, I'll name her ass as my accessory. We'll go upstate together. Hand in handcuffed hand. Now that shit's a promise, understand what I'm sayin'? You tell her that, and I'll call you back. 
Ordell hangs up. Back in control. He looks to the TV. One of the COMEDIANS cracks a joke. Ordell laughs. 
Max looks at Winston. 
MAX You're right, that was Ordell. You have time, you think you could find out for me where he's staying? 
WINSTON Cops can't locate him, huh? 
MAX They don't have your winning personality. 
WINSTON Sure thing. I don't have to know what I'm doing, long as you know. 
MAX I think I do. Is that good enough? 
EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT 
A low-rent motel. We hear a phone ring inside one of the rooms. 
INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Jackie lies on a hotel bed, wearing a long t-shirt and panties, watching TV that's chained to the wall. 
She answers the phone. 
JACKIE Hello. 
INT. MAX'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
Max on the phone in his office, alone. 
MAX I know where he is. 
This gets her attention. She picks up the remote to the TV set and zaps the sound. 
JACKIE How'd you find out? 
MAX All Winston had to do was ask around. Ordell's living in Long Beach with a woman junkie. 
JACKIE How does Winston find him if A.T.F. and all the local Police can't? 
MAX People talk to Winston. He's street, same as them, they trust him. They get busted, they know somebody who can bond them out. I thought I might drop in on him. He'll no doubt be surprised to see me. 
JACKIE He's liable to shoot you. 
MAX On the phone I told him I have the ten thousand he put up for your bond. I could bring the money and the papers for him to sign. Walk out and call the Sheriff's department. 
Jackie gets off the bed. 
JACKIE Ray wants him. 
MAX Everybody wants him, he's a homicide suspect. It doesn't matter who brings him in, he's gonna name you as an accessory. 
Jackie lights up a Davidoff. 
JACKIE That's why A.T.F.'s gotta make the case. I'm their witness. They wouldn't have a case without me. If it's his word against mine, who are they gonna believe? 
MAX It's not that simple. 
Phone in one hand, smoke in the other, Jackie begins pacing back and forth. 
JACKIE It never was, so I'm not gonna start worrying about it now. Look, Ray more or less believes my story, and he more or less doesn't care. All he really gives a shit about is getting Ordell. 
MAX So how do we give Ordell to Nicolet? 
JACKIE Get Ordell to come to your office. 
MAX Set him up. 
JACKIE Uh-huh. 
MAX Tell him you want to see him? 
JACKIE Tell him I want to give him his money. 
MAX Why? 
JACKIE I've chickened out. I'm afraid of him. He'll like that. 
MAX What do you tell Nicolet? 
JACKIE Ordell called and wants to meet me and I'm scared. 
MAX We get Ordell to come to my office. Nicolet - is he already there, or does he come busting in while we're chatting? 
Jackie takes a drag. 
JACKIE He's already there. 
MAX What if he hears something he's not supposed to? 
JACKIE Well, we don't let that happen, now do we? 
EXT. FILTHY APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Max at the front door or Raynelle's apartment. He pounds on the door. 
Ordell throws open the door. 
ORDELL What the fuck you doin' knockin on the door like the goddamn police? You lookin' to get shot? 
MAX I thought you might be asleep. 
ORDELL You keep fuckin' with me, you're gonna be asleep forever. 
He looks past Max. 
BACK TO ORDELL AND MAX 
The song plays LOUD. Ordell moves his head to the music slightly. Mak sits silently in the passenger seat, sneaking a look at Ordell every once in a while. 
BACK TO JACKIE 
Sitting behind Max's desk in the dark. She takes out her Davidoffs and lights one up with her Bic. Her face is illuminated for a moment - then it's out. She exhales a drag. No music. 
BACK TO ORDELL 
CLOSEUP ORDELL 
His face is ice, the music is LOUD. 
BACK TO JACKIE 
CLOSEUP JACKIE 
She's cool as a breeze, smoking her brand. No music. 
BACK TO ORDELL AND MAX 
Music is LOUD. Ordell's driving. Max says; 
MAX It's the next street. 
ORDELL I know where it is. 
MAX Turn left. 
ORDELL I know where to turn. 
BACK TO JACKIE 
Sitting behind Max's desk. Headlights shine in the window. She is lit by them. She puts out her Davidoff and sits back in the chair. The light source cuts off. 
BACK TO ORDELL AND MAX 
Sitting in the parked Cadillac. Ordell has just turned off the lights and turns to Max, Beretta in hand. 
ORDELL My money's in that office, right? 
MAX Uh-huh. 
ORDELL She starts givin' me some bullshit about it ain't there. It's somewhere else and we can go get it. (he holds up his Beretta) I'm shootin' you in the head right then and there. Then I'm gonna shoot her in the kneecap, find out where my godamn money is. I go walkin' in there and that nigga Winston or anybody else is in there, you're the first man shot, understand what I'm sayin'? 
MAX Yeah. 
ORDELL Now, is there anything you want to tell me before we get out of this car? 
MAX No. 
ORDELL You sure? 
MAX Yes. 
ORDELL You better be, motherfucker. 
EXT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - NIGHT 
They both get out of the Cadillac. Ordell sticks his gun in his pants. 
ORDELL Get ahead of me and open the door. 
Max steps in front of him, puts his keys in the lock and opens the door. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Step inside easy. 
Max does. 
Max sees; Jackie sitting at his desk in the dark. 
Ordell sees this, too and moves past Max. 
ORDELL (CONT'D) Hey, girl, what the hell you sitting in the goddamn dark for? 
Max sees; Ordell moves past him... then he sees the bathroom door on the left side of the desk open, throwing light into the room, onto Jackie and the figure who steps out of the bathroom... Mark Dargus. 
Max sees; Ordell looks to Dargus, then back to Jackie. Then Jackie says; 
JACKIE Mark... (raising her voice) ... he's got a gun! 
Max sees; Ordell almost jumps, his arm goes to the Beretta in his pants... 
... just as Dargus raises his gun and SHOOTS him three times in the chest... 
... Ordell drops o the ground like a sack of potatoes, he lands at Max's feet. 
Max looks down and sees Ordell's head by his shoes, look of panic still on his face, dead as fried chicken. 
Max sees Dargus come over, bending on one nee next to Ordell's body. 
Max looks over at Jackie, still behind the desk. She looks eyes with Max for a moment, then stands and walks over to the body. 
Then Max sees ONE SHERIFF DEPUTY step out of the dark holding a shogun ... then another... then Winston step out of the bathroom. 
DARGUS He's dead. 
Dargus looks up at Max; 
DARGUS (CONT'D) Does he have the marked bills on him? 
Max still shaken; 
MAX In his inside coat pocket. 
Dargus reaches in and pulls out the envelope containing the forty-thousand marked dollars. 
Max looks at Jackie. 
She looks down at the dead Ordell with no expression, just light up another Davidoff. 
Dargus looks up at Max; 
DARGUS Why were you with him? 
MAX I went to give him his refund, so he wouldn't have to come here. 
DARGUS How'd you know where he was? 
MAX I found out. 
DARGUS And you didn't tell the Police? 
MAX I told Jackie, and Jackie said you wanted him. 
Dargus looks down at he man he just killed. 
JACKIE Remember when Ray said you hoped you'd get him before he got me? 
