BROCKLEHURST And should you like to fall into that pit and be burning there forever? 
JANE No sir. 
BROCKLEHURST What must you do to avoid it? 
JANE I must keep in good health and not die. 
Mrs Reed is by the fireside in an ultra-feminine dress. She puts down her tea cup in irritation. 
MRS REED I've been her sole benefactress and her kindest friend. But she shows no gratitude and brings nothing but discord into my house. 
BROCKLEHURST What is her parentage? 
MRS REED She's an orphan. Her mother was my late husband's sister. On his deathbed he exhorted me to care for her. I have always treated her as one of my own. 
Jane silently revolts against this lie. 
MRS REED (CONT'D) If you accept her at Lowood school Mr Brocklehurst, keep a strict eye on her. Her worst fault is a tendency to deceit. I'm sorry to tell you that Jane Eyre is a liar. 
Jane's eyes flash with outrage. 
BROCKLEHURST All liars will have their portion in the lake burning with fire and brimstone. She shall be watched, Mrs Reed. 
MRS REED I wish her to be made useful, to be kept humble. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 13. 
BROCKLEHURST You can rest assured dear lady that we mortify our girls in the sentiments of vanity and pride. They are taught to be quiet, plain and modest. 
A passion of resentment is forming in Jane. 
BROCKLEHURST (CONT'D) We shall root out the wickedness in this small, ungrateful plant. 
Mrs Reed smiles sweetly. 
MRS REED And as for its vacations, it must spend them all at Lowood. 
INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE ENTRANCE HALL. 
Jane is climbing the staircase. John Reed blocks her way. 
JOHN So, Rat, you're being sent away. It's as I thought; you're not fit to associate with me. 
Jane snaps. She cries out: 
JANE You are not fit to associate with me! 
INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE MORNING ROOM. 
Mrs Reed is at her desk. Jane appears in front of her. 
JANE You said I was a liar. Well I am not. If I was, I should say that I loved you and I don't. I dislike you the worst of anybody in the world except John Reed. He is a liar, not I. 
MRS REED How dare you speak in this manner. 
JANE I'll never call you Aunt again as long as I live and if anyone asks how I liked you I'll say that the very thought of you makes me sick. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 14. 
MRS REED You wouldn't dare. 
JANE I'll remember how you thrust me back into the Red Room and locked me there to my dying day. Even when you knew it was haunted and I begged to be let out. People think you are good but you are bad and hard-hearted and I'll let everyone at Lowood know what you have done! 
MRS REED Children must be corrected for their faults. 
JANE Deceit is not my fault! 
MRS REED But you are passionate. 
JANE My Uncle Reed is in heaven and can see all that you do and think; so can my mother and father. They know how you hate me and wish me dead. They can see. They see everything you do and they will judge you, Mrs Reed. 
Mrs Reed has turned quite pale. Jane blazes with victory. 
EXT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE GATE HOUSE. 
Bessie is waiting with Jane while her belongings are loaded onto a public coach, its top laden with passengers. 
BESSIE You're such a queer, solitary little thing. If only you could make yourself more appealing. Perhaps if you tried smiling from time to time, people would find you more pleasant - 
JANE Don't scold me Bessie. I know you dislike me - 
BESSIE I don't dislike you Miss; I'm fonder of you than of anyone. 
JANE You don't show it. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 15. 
BESSIE Miss Jane - 
Jane throws her arms around Bessie and embraces her with great force. Bessie returns the embrace, surprised, moved. Jane gets into the coach. Bessie looks up at the driver. 
BESSIE (CONT'D) You take good care of her. 
Jane's small, pale face peers out of the coach window, watching Gateshead recede. She doesn't cry. But Bessie can't stave off her tears. 
INT. NIGHT. LOWOOD - THE HALL. 
Diana and Mary glance at each other, fascinated. 
INT. EVENING. MOOR HOUSE - THE BEDROOM 
Jane is dressing herself. She stops, weakly holding the back of a chair for support, looking out of the window at the sun setting over the hills. 
ST JOHN (V.O.) Merciful Jesus, enlighten thou me with the brightness of thine inward light... 
INT. EVENING. MOOR HOUSE - THE STAIRS 
Diana is helping Jane down the stairs. 
ST JOHN (V.O.) And take away all darkness from the habitation of my heart... 
INT. EVENING. MOOR HOUSE - THE PARLOUR 
St John is praying over Jane, Diana and Mary as they sit at the table. Mary catches Jane's eye, gives her shy smile. 
ST JOHN Join me to thyself with an inseparable band of love... For thou, even thou alone, dost satisfy him that loveth thee... 
Jane finds herself staring at St John, who prays ardently. 
ST JOHN (CONT'D) And without thee all things are vain and empty. Amen. 
St John opens his eyes and looks searchingly at Jane. She immediately looks down. 
JANE, MARY, DIANA Amen. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 19. 
DIANA Welcome to our table, Miss Elliott. 
JANE I'd appreciate it if you called me Jane. It is my own name. 
MARY It's wonderful to see you on your feet, Miss Jane. 
Jane turns her attention to St John. 
JANE I trust I will not be eating long at your expense, Mr Rivers. 
ST JOHN You wish to be independent of my charity? 
JANE I wish to work, sir. Show me how to work or how to seek work; that's all I ask. 
DIANA You're not fit enough to work. 
ST JOHN My sisters have always taken pleasure in keeping injured birds but I'm more inclined to put you in a way of keeping yourself - and shall endeavour to do so, if that's what you wish. 
JANE With all my heart, sir. 
DIANA It's a shame she has no choice of helpers, St John, and must put up with such crusty people as you. 
ST JOHN This school you were at, Miss Elliot, this charitable institution; what did it prepare you for? 
CUT TO: 
We see a bundle of sharp twigs come down on a girl's bare neck, like a whip. 
CUT TO: Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 20. 
Jane flinches at the memory. 
ST JOHN (CONT'D) Was it a thorough education? 
JANE Most thorough. 
INT. DAY. LOWOOD - THE HALL. 
Miss Scatcherd's bitter life is in her face and voice. 
MISS SCATCHERD Burns, Helen Burns! 
Jane, aged ten, looks up. She is wearing a brown stuff frock with a puritanical cap like all the other girls. Silence reigns in the school hall. 
A red haired girl of about thirteen stands up; Helen Burns. Miss Scatcherd holds up an apron in which a hole has been mistakenly cut. 
MISS SCATCHERD (CONT'D) You're a slattern and a disgrace! 
Helen Burns undoes the back of her dress. The punishment is given; a dozen sharp, stinging whacks with the birch twigs. 
Jane is appalled. But to her astonishment and awe, Helen Burns doesn't cry; she barely changes her expression. As the strokes go on - seven, eight, nine - Helen seems like one in a trance. Jane is deeply affected. 
On the eleventh stroke, the door bursts open and a visiting party walks in: the Brocklehurst family. Miss Temple escorts two young girls dressed in peacock finery and two smart, bombastic ladies. Mr Brocklehurst follows. Helen's punishment is forgotten as the students rush to their feet. 
Jane, in a panic, drops her slate and breaks it. Brocklehurst's eyes sweep the room. They land on her. 
BROCKLEHURST I might have known. The new girl. Step forward, Jane Eyre. 
Filled with dread, Jane steps forward. 
BROCKLEHURST (CONT'D) It is my duty dear children, to warn you that this girl is not one of God's own lambs. 
We see the look of frustration on Miss Temple's face. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 21. 
JANE Can he not do God's work here? 
MARY This quiet parish will never do for him; he almost raves in his restlessness. It breaks our hearts. 
DIANA St John burns with talents and ambition. But he lacks the means for advancement here. Our poverty thwarts him at every turn and so he has chosen to lay all his gifts on God's altar. 
MARY We've tried to persuade him to stay but in some things our brother is - he is - 
DIANA Inexorable as death. 
MARY We are now without father. We'll soon be without home and brother. 
Jane feels a powerful compassion for them. 
JANE In one thing you are fortunate. 
She looks over at the horizon. 
JANE (CONT'D) You have each other. 
EXT. DAY. LOWOOD - THE GROUNDS. SPRING. 
Jane is looking at the high wall which is the horizon of her world at Lowood. Her eyes come to rest on the main door. Two men are carrying a small coffin out of the school. Brocklehurst follows it with a menthol-soaked cloth over his mouth and nose. He becomes aware of Jane's eyes on him. He looks away. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 25. 
INT. NIGHT. LOWOOD - THE DORMITORY. 
Jane is creeping down a corridor in her night dress. She peers in through the dormitory door. It has been turned into a sanitarium. Camphor and vinegar are being burnt. Jane can hardly look at the sick girls. 
Miss Temple, pale with exhaustion, is speaking intimately to Madame Pierrot, the French mistress. Jane overhears. 
MISS TEMPLE This is the result of semi- starvation and neglected colds; Brockelhurst's idea of mortifying their bodies to save their souls. TYPHUS - 
Miss Temple can't say more. 
MADAME PIERROT Write to the governors. You must. 
Jane creeps on. 
INT. NIGHT. LOWOOD - MISS TEMPLE'S ROOM. 
Jane opens the door. A small bed has been set up at the foot of Miss Temple's. In it lies Helen Burns. A candle is set on a table at her side. Jane takes her hand. 
JANE Helen. 
HELEN Is it you, Jane? Have you come to say goodbye? 
JANE You're cold. 
HELEN I'm very happy. I am going home. 
JANE Back to your father? 
HELEN My father has a new wife. He'll not miss me much. 
JANE Then where? 
HELEN To my future home, where all is light. I am going to God. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 26. 
JANE No... 
Jane is devastated. She climbs into bed next to Helen. For a moment, they hold each other. Jane's tears silently fall. 
HELEN Don't be sad. I will escape great suffering by dying young. 
JANE No... 
HELEN I don't have any talent to make my way in life. I should be always at fault. But God is my friend. He loves me. 
JANE Then he must save you. 
HELEN He is saving me. 
Jane cannot articulate her distress at Helen's words. 
HELEN (CONT'D) I feel like I could sleep now. I like to have you near - 
JANE I won't leave you. 
HELEN You're so warm and alive. Jane, you have a passion for living. 
INT. DAY. LOWOOD - MISS TEMPLE'S ROOM. 
We see Miss Temple looking down at the bed in the dazzling, morning light. Jane, waking, has her small arms around Helen, as if fiercely protecting her. Helen is ashen, her eyes open, staring at some unseen thing. She is dead. Miss Temple lifts Jane away. 
MISS TEMPLE Jane... 
Jane realises what has happened. We hear the sound of her distress begin. She is inconsolable. 
JANE No, no, no - 
MARY (V.O.) Jane? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 27. 
Jane is in her scullery putting all her energy into scrubbing dishes. 
MRS FAIRFAX (V.O.) Jane Eyre is requested to send references and all particulars to Mrs Fairfax at Thornfield Hall. 
Jane closes her eyes, trying to banish her thoughts. It is no good. The memories crowd in. 
INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE GROUND FLOOR. 
A smiling lady dressed in black approaches her through the darkness - Mrs Alice Fairfax. 
MRS FAIRFAX How do you do, my dear? What a long and tedious journey you must have had of it. John is quite the slowest driver in the county. You must be cold to the bone. 
JANE Are you Mrs Fairfax? 
MRS FAIRFAX Indeed I am; come and warm yourself in here. 
Mrs Fairfax leads Jane up the dark corridor and into a cosy parlour. Leah, a young maidservant, follows. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) Your poor hands must be quite numb; here, let me help you. 
Mrs Fairfax undoes the ribbon on Jane's bonnet. Jane is taken aback, unused to motherliness of any kind. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) Leah, make a little hot port and cut a sandwich or two. 
Leah eyes Jane with great curiosity. She hurries away. 
MRS FAIRFAX Draw nearer the fire. John is taking your trunk up to your room. 
Knitting apparatus lies abandoned on a fireside chair. Mrs Fairfax moves it and gestures for Jane to sit. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 31. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) I've put you at the back of the house; I hope you don't mind. The rooms at the front have much finer furniture but they are so gloomy and solitary I think. 
Jane can't help noticing that every surface is covered in lace, embroidery, or fine crochet. The whole room is an advertisement for Mrs Fairfax's skill at handicrafts - and testament to the hours she has spent alone. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) I'm so glad you are come. To be sure this is a fine old house but I must confess that in winter one can feel a little dreary and alone. Leah is a very nice girl and John and Martha good people too, but they are servants - and one cannot talk to them on terms of equality. 
JANE Am I to have the pleasure of meeting Miss Fairfax tonight? 
MRS FAIRFAX Who? 
JANE Miss Fairfax - my pupil? 
MRS FAIRFAX Oh you mean Miss Varens; Mr Rochester's ward. She is to be your pupil. 
JANE Who is Mr Rochester? 
MRS FAIRFAX Why, the owner of Thornfield. 
JANE I thought Thornfield Hall belonged to you. 
MRS FAIRFAX (bursting into laughter) Oh bless you child, what an idea. To me? I am only the housekeeper. 
JANE Forgive me - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 32. 
MRS FAIRFAX There is a distant connection between Mr Rochester and I - his mother was a Fairfax - but I'd never presume on it. Heavens, me, owner of Thornfield? 
She continues to laugh. A bashful smile is playing on Jane's lips. Mrs Fairfax is beginning to thaw her. 
INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE HALL / STAIRCASE. 
Mrs Fairfax is carrying a lamp across the great hall; the only light. Jane can perceive grandeur looming out of the darkness; Jacobean fireplace, coat of arms, head of a stag. Very gloomy, eerie. Her breath is vaporising in the cold. 
MRS FAIRFAX We shall have a cheerful house this winter... 
As Jane follows Mrs Fairfax up the stairs, light is thrown on portraits of dour, craggy, long dead ancestors. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) With Miss Varens here - and with you - we'll have quite a merry time of it. 
INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - A LONG GALLERY. 
Dark heavy drapes, another striking portrait. A dark, voluptuous woman in an 18th Century gown, ruby lipped, one full breast exposed. Jane glances away, taken aback by the woman's bold expression and her nakedness. 
MRS FAIRFAX I'm sure that last winter - and what a severe one - if it didn't rain it snowed and if it didn't snow it blew a gale - last winter I declare that not a soul came to the house from November to February. 
Mrs Fairfax leads Jane through the wood-panelled darkness. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) I got quite melancholy night after night alone. When spring finally came I thought it a great relief that I hadn't gone distracted. 
She opens the door to a small but delightful room. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 33. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) Here. 
Jane looks in: a fire burning, a lamp lit by her bed, a soft quilt, pale chintz curtains. 
JANE OH - 
She is utterly speechless. Her eight years of physical discomfort and hardship are over. 
MRS FAIRFAX Good night, my dear. I hope you'll be comfy. 
JANE Thank you. 
MRS FAIRFAX What is it, child? You've been here three months now and I'm worried that the position is not enough / to occupy your - 
JANE Oh, Mrs Fairfax, no. I'm so thankful to be at Thornfield. Please don't think I'm so ungrateful as to be discontented. 
MRS FAIRFAX But it's a quiet life, isn't it? This isolated house; a still doom for a young woman... 
Jane looks out at the view once more. 
JANE I wish a woman could have action in her life, like a man. It agitates me to pain that the sky- line over there is ever our limit. I long sometimes for a power of vision that would overpass it. If I could behold all I imagine... I've never seen a city, never spoken with men. I've never even seen a town of any size. And I fear my whole life will pass, without ever having... 
Mrs Fairfax's troubled look makes Jane fall silent. Mrs Fairfax looks as if she is about to say something - then puts on her practical face, the moment of intimacy gone. 
MRS FAIRFAX Well now - exercise is a great cure for anything, they say. (MORE) Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 37. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) I have some letters to post; will you take them? 
EXT. DAY. A FROZEN MEADOW. 
Jane is walking with purpose, carrying a bundle of letters. The exercise is lifting her spirits. The sun is sinking, turning the frost gold. 
EXT. DAY. A FROZEN WOOD. 
A brook runs close to the path; half frozen. Its slow trickle is the only sound to be heard. Jane moves slowly, acutely aware of everything around her. 
Further into the wood, the brook has frozen right across the path. Jane slips on it as she passes. The noise of her feet echoes. She steadies herself. 
She gazes at a huddle of snowdrops, their heads bowed. A crystal drop of water runs to the end of a snowdrop and begins to freeze as she watches. It is held suspended as if the whole winter is contained in it. 
The moon is mounting the sky. Jane hears a sound like the beating of wings. The blood is rushing through her ears. 
Her trance is broken by the figure of a great dog - which glides past her so close it almost knocks her off her feet. The beating is loud; not wings she realises, but the rush of an approaching horse. It is almost on top of her before she can move. Her shocked, pale face, her black garments startle both horse and rider. 
ROCHESTER What the deuce - 
The rider gets the horse under control and continues, only to have his horse slip on the ice. Both man and horse fall with a crash. The dog begins to bark, until the hills echo with the sound. The horse is on one side; the man is lying, trapped beneath it on the ice; Edward Fairfax Rochester. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) Hellfire. 
Jane is confounded. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) Pilot, get down! GET DOWN I SAY! 
JANE Can I do anything, sir? 
Rochester stares at her; a tiny black figure, surrounded by darkening frost, the low moon behind her. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 38. 
ROCHESTER Get back. 
Jane doesn't move. Rochester turns to his horse. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) Mesrour. Mesrour. 
With much stamping and clattering, the horse clambers to its feet. Rochester seems relieved. 
He tries to stand himself. His ankle will bear no weight. He lets out an involuntary cry. It echoes: 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) Damnation. 
JANE Are you injured, sir? 
Rochester looks at her once more. He manages to get himself off the ice. He sits on a nearby stile. Jane approaches him. She now has the moon on her face. She begins to look less like a phantom and more like a girl. 
JANE (CONT'D) If you are hurt and want help I can fetch someone from the village. I'm on my way there to post a letter. 
Rochester looks as if he doesn't believe her. 
ROCHESTER Where do you come from? 
JANE Thornfield Hall. 
ROCHESTER Whose house is that? 
JANE Mr Rochester's. 
ROCHESTER Do you know Mr Rochester? 
JANE No, I've never seen him. 
Rochester is trying to place her. She is a puzzle to him. 
ROCHESTER You're not a servant there... 
JANE I am the governess, sir. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 39. 
ROCHESTER The governess. (A slow smile) Deuce take me, I had forgotten. 
Examining Jane once more, he laughs a low laugh. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) The governess. 
Jane does not like to be laughed at. 
JANE Because I was burdensome and she disliked me. 
ROCHESTER Lowood; that's a charity school, isn't it? 
JANE Yes. 
ROCHESTER How long did you survive there? 
JANE Eight years. 
ROCHESTER No tale of woe... 
MRS FAIRFAX I daily thank providence for sending us Miss Eyre. She's a kind and patient teacher and an invaluable / companion - 
ROCHESTER Don't trouble yourself to give her a character. I'll judge for myself. She began by felling my horse. 
MRS FAIRFAX Sir? 
ROCHESTER I have her to thank for this sprain. 
Mrs Fairfax looks at Jane, bewildered. Rochester lifts one of her watercolours. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) Adele has brought me these; are they yours? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 43. 
JANE Yes sir. 
A swollen sea. A cormorant, a golden bracelet held in its beak. A girl's arm coming out of the water, white and deathly, her drowned figure underneath. 
ROCHESTER Where did you get your copies? 
JANE Out of my head. 
ROCHESTER That head I now see on your shoulders? 
JANE Yes sir. 
He turns the next. The top of a hill. An expanse of twilight sky. Rising up, a girl's shape, her forehead crowned with a star, red hair flowing; Helen Burns. 
ROCHESTER Who's this? 
JANE The evening star. 
Rochester gives her a direct gaze. 
ROCHESTER Why did you bewitch my horse? 
Jane cannot reply. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE NURSERY. 
Jane is by the blackboard, where she is writing sums. 
ADELE Tonight I will have my cadeaux. He always bring me a cadeaux. 
Mrs Fairfax breathlessly enters. 
MRS FAIRFAX Sorry to disturb. He's asked for your art. 
Jane looks at her in disbelief. 
JANE What for? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 44. 
MRS FAIRFAX He wishes to have it. 
JANE Why? 
MRS FAIRFAX To show to his company, I should think. Is this it here? Thank you. 
Jane watches helplessly as Mrs Fairfax takes her portfolio. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE HALL/LANDING. 
Jane is crossing the landing holding Adele's hand. Downstairs, the library doors swing wide open. The sound of male laughter can be heard; gentlemen walk out into the hall. Rochester follows, walking with a stick. 
ADELE Monsieur! 
All eyes turn upon the landing. Jane tries to find a shadow to back into but there are none. Adele curtsies. 
ROCHESTER Ah, there she is... 
It is unclear whether he is referring to Adele or Jane. He makes a bow. The men are staring at Jane with great curiosity. It makes her uncomfortable. She tugs Adele away. 
INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE DRAWING ROOM. 
A box tied with ribbons sits on the table. 
ADELE Ma boite, ma boite! 
Rochester is leaning against the mantelpiece, drinking. 
ROCHESTER Take it away you genuine daughter of Paris and amuse yourself with disembowelling it. 
JANE How? 
ROCHESTER Your openness, your clear conscience, your unpolluted mind. If I were eighteen I think we truly would be equals. Nature meant me to be a good man, one of the better kind and as you see, I am not so. 
JANE Are you a villain then, sir? 
ROCHESTER I'm a trite commonplace sinner, hackneyed in all the dissipations that the rich and worthless try to put on life. (HE SIGHS) When I was your age, fate dealt me a blow. I was - cursed with a burden to carry through life. I lacked the wisdom to remain cool and I turned desperate. Dread remorse, Miss Eyre. It is the poison of life. 
Rochester takes in her open, compassionate face. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) And since happiness is denied me, I've a right to get pleasure in its stead. And I will get it, cost what it may. 
JANE Then you'll degenerate still more. 
ROCHESTER Are you preaching to me? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 49. 
JANE I'm reminding you of your own words; remorse is the poison of life. 
ROCHESTER But, Miss Eyre, if the pleasure I was seeking was sweet and fresh; if it was an inspiration; if it wore the robes of an angel of light... what then? 
JANE I don't know. To speak truth, I don't understand you at all. 
ROCHESTER My heart has long been a charnel house. Perhaps it'll transform into a shrine. 
JANE Sir, I find the conversation has got out of my depth. 
ROCHESTER You're afraid of me because I talk like a sphynx. 
JANE I'm not afraid. 
ROCHESTER Yes you are. 
JANE I've simply no wish to talk nonsense. 
ROCHESTER If you did it would be in such a grave, quiet manner that I would mistake it for sense. Do you never laugh, Miss Eyre? 
This question cuts Jane to the quick. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) Only rarely, perhaps. But you're not naturally austere, any more than I'm naturally vicious. I can see in you the glance of a curious sort of bird through the close set bars of a cage: a vivid, restless, resolute captive. Were it but free, it would soar. Cloud high. 
Jane opens her mouth to speak - but she cannot. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 50. 
EXT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE GROUNDS. SPRING. 
Jane is playing battledore and shuttlecock with Adele. Her playing is full of energy, very free. Her cheeks looks almost rosy. It is spring. 
JANE Just as it turns to come down - that's when you hit it. 
Adele serves. The game continues apace. Rochester wanders out of the open double doors of the library. He watches. 
Something lands at his feet. A rook's feather. He looks up at the battlements. A shape disappears, too fast to see. Rochester's features cloud over with an expression of shame and detestation. He stands in a terrible inner conflict. 
Jane notices him - she misses her shot. 
JANE (CONT'D) Mademoiselle has got to rest. 
ADELE Because I start to win! 
JANE Have mercy, Adele. Play with Pilot for a while. 
Rochester is leaning over the balustrade, his head bowed. 
JANE (CONT'D) Is our game disturbing you, sir? 
He looks up. A hard and cynical expression has mastered his countenance, something resolute. Jane is taken aback. 
ROCHESTER On the contrary. I like your game. I like this cold, hard day. I like Thornfield. 
Rochester picks up the black feather. He starts to walk across the grounds at a fast pace. Jane follows. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) I've been arranging a point with my destiny, Miss Eyre. My destiny stood up there by that chimney, like one of the hags who appeared to Macbeth. 'You like Thornfield?' She said. 'Like it if you dare'. Well, I dare. It's felt like a plague house for years - 
He turns, the whole house now in his sights. He shouts: Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 51. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) But Thornfield is my home and I shall like it! 
Adele is running after them. 
ADELE Mademoiselle - Il faut jouer - 
Rochester snaps at her with shocking ferocity. 
ROCHESTER Get back! Keep at a distance child, or go in! 
Adele's face crumples into tears. Rochester sees Jane's shock at his outburst. He walks away. 
Jane isn't sure whether she has been dismissed or not. Adele has run back to Pilot. Jane watches her. She suddenly finds Rochester is back at her side. He walks her along. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) She's the daughter of an opera dancer, Celine Varens. Celine was a beauty and she professed to love me. Her ardour was so great that, ugly as I am, I believed myself her idol. So I installed in her in a hotel, gave her servants, gowns cashmeres, diamonds - in short, I was an idiot. 
JANE To fall in love, sir? 
JANE Only the candle on the ground. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 55. 
ROCHESTER But you heard a laugh? 
JANE Yes. 
ROCHESTER Have you heard that laugh before? 
JANE There's a woman who sews here; Grace Poole - She laughs in that way, I think. 
ROCHESTER Just so. Grace Poole - you have guessed it. Well, you're no talking fool; please say nothing about this. 
JANE BUT - 
ROCHESTER I will account for this state of affairs. Go back to your room and say nothing. 
JANE Yes, sir. (She takes off his coat) Good-night. 
ROCHESTER Is that how you're going to leave me? 
JANE You said I should go. 
Rochester approaches her. 
ROCHESTER Jane, fire is a horrible death. You have saved my life. Don't walk past me as if we were strangers. 
JANE What am I to do then, sir? 
ROCHESTER At least... shake hands. 
Rochester holds out his hand. Jane takes it. They shake. Rochester wraps Jane's hand in both of his. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 56. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) I have a pleasure in owing you my life. 
JANE There is no debt. 
ROCHESTER I knew you would do me good in some way. I saw it in your eyes when I first beheld you. Their expression did not - did not strike delight into my very inmost being so, for nothing. People talk of natural sympathies... You. 
Rochester is drawing her slowly closer. Jane, disconcerted, is trying to resist. 
JANE Good night then, sir. 
ROCHESTER So you will leave me? 
JANE I'm cold. 
ROCHESTER Go. 
At last, he relaxes his grip. She backs away. She goes. 
INT. DAWN. THORNFIELD. JANE'S ROOM. 
Jane is keeling on the windowsill, looking out at the rising sun. She is lit by its glowing rays; inspired. It's a rare feeling that prompts her mood, as new and unfolding as the day itself - happiness. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - ROCHESTER'S ROOM. 
Jane looks in to see Leah and Martha cleaning the soot from the woodwork and windowpanes. To her amazement, Grace Poole is there, calmly sewing rings to new curtains. 
GRACE Good day to you, miss. 
JANE What's happened here? 
GRACE (CANNILY) Only master reading in his bed last night. (MORE) Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 57. 
GRACE (CONT'D) Fell asleep with his candle lit and the curtains got on fire. Managed to put it out with the water from his stand. Did you not hear anything, miss? 
JANE I did. I heard a strange laugh. 
GRACE It's hardly likely the master would laugh when he was in such danger. Perhaps you were dreaming. 
JANE I was not. 
GRACE Then you didn't think of opening your door and looking out? 
Jane is infuriated. She turns on her heel. 
INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - MRS FAIRFAX'S PARLOUR. 
Jane walks in. Their meal is laid out. 
JANE Has Mr Rochester not sent for us today? 
MRS FAIRFAX Why, he's gone away. Were you not aware? He left after breakfast. 
Jane takes this piece of news like an invisible shock. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) He's gone to The Leas, Mr Eshton's place, about ten miles from here. I believe Blanche Ingram is there. She's a great favourite of his. 
JANE Oh? 
MRS FAIRFAX I saw her two years ago when Mr Rochester had a party here. Oh, she was a beauty; I daresay the most elegant girl I've ever seen. So tall, with raven hair cascading down her back; I don't know how she'd had it done. She sang a duet with Mr Rochester. They made a lovely harmony. (MORE) Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 58. 
JANE May I assist you, Mrs Fairfax? 
We see Mrs Fairfax approach Jane in a rush of gratitude. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE SECOND FLOOR. 
Jane wears a housekeeper's apron over her dress. She enters Rochester's room with an armful of bed linen. It has been returned to its former glory. Adele is jumping up and down on the bed. Sophie is trying to coax her off it. Jane gives Sophie the sheets. 
Adele leaves the room with Jane and skids all the way down the newly polished gallery in her stockinged feet. Jane can't help smiling. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE KITCHENS. 
Jane sets down several bottles of wine on the kitchen table in order to dust them. The kitchen is a hive of activity - except for one lone figure sitting quietly in a chair by the fire, smoking a pipe; Grace Poole. Leah and one of the hired under cooks are talking abut her. 
UNDER COOK She gets good wages, I'd guess? 
LEAH Wish I had as good; not one fifth what Mrs Poole receives. 
Jane affects not to listen, but is keenly interested. 
LEAH (CONT'D) And she's laying it all by. I shouldn't wonder if she's saved enough to keep her independent. 
UNDER COOK She's a good hand, I daresay. 
LEAH Not everyone could do it, that's for sure, not even for the money. 
UNDER COOK No wonder the master relies on HER - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 62. 
Leah notices Jane's curious glance. She nudges the under cook. Jane, picks up the bottles and carries them away. As she passes she hears: 
UNDER COOK (CONT'D) Doesn't she know? 
At that moment, Adele rushes in. 
ADELE They're here! They're here! 
Mrs Fairfax tries to get her apron off. She becomes flustered. Jane helps her. 
MRS FAIRFAX Thank you. 
Mrs Fairfax and Adele go. Jane looks out of the window. 
Her attention is focussed on two equestrians who lead the arriving party; Rochester and Blanche, the dark beauty at his side. She is laughing at something. The sun shines behind her. Jane is dazzled. She turns away. 
INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE SECOND FLOOR. 
Jane comes up the back stairs and on to the gallery, just as the ladies start to issue from their rooms. She stands back in a dark corner. 
There is an approach of chatter; a subdued vivacity. A flurry of multicoloured silks, lace and velvets go by. They descend the staircase as noiselessly as a bright mist. 
Jane steps out. She walks right into the path of Blanche Ingram, who is dressed in white. They both startle. 
JANE Excuse me, miss. 
Blanche gives her a look of ice. Rochester is at the top of the stairs. 
ROCHESTER Good evening. 
They both turn. Rochester has seen Blanche, not Jane. He offers her his arm, his gaze full of admiration. Jane sinks back into the shadows. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) May I? 
Blanche lays her gloved hand on Rochester's arm, barely touching him. They glide away. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 63. 
INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE HALL. 
Adele and Jane sit on the stairs, listening to Blanche and Rochester sing. Their voices thrill. Jane is trying not to feel. But when Rochester hits an exceptionally beautiful note, she involuntarily closes her eyes. 
Adele leans into Jane. She is crying. 
JANE What is it, darling? 
ADELE She sing like Maman. 
Jane, full of compassion, takes Adele back to her room. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE SCHOOLROOM. 
Mrs Fairfax enters in a great hurry. 
MRS FAIRFAX Tonight. He wants you both in the drawing room after dinner. 
Adele leaps up, delighted. Jane is crestfallen. 
JANE Not me, surely. 
MRS FAIRFAX It's his particular wish. 
JANE He was being polite. 
MRS FAIRFAX I'm instructed to tell you that if you resist, he'll come up and get you himself. You needn't stay long. Just let him see you and then slip away. Don't worry; no one'll look at you. 
JANE Teaching Adele. 
ROCHESTER You look pale. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 67. 
JANE I am well. 
ROCHESTER You're depressed; your eyes are shining with tears. What's the meaning of this? 
Jane catches sight of Mrs Fairfax, who is watching them with an expression of unease. Rochester glares at her. 
MRS FAIRFAX A gentleman has arrived to see you, sir. 
ROCHESTER Who? 
MRS FAIRFAX He says he's travelled a long way, from Spanish Town, Jamaica - 
Rochester seems winded. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) And indeed I think he must have come from some hot country because he won't take off his coat. 
ROCHESTER Spanish Town... 
MRS FAIRFAX Mr Richard Mason. He says you're old friends. I've put him in the morning room. 
Rochester cannot speak. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) Have I done wrong? 
ROCHESTER Not at all. Please tell him I'll see him directly. 
Mrs Fairfax goes. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) Oh Jane - Jane. This is a blow. 
JANE Can I help you sir? 
In the drawing room, Blanche's prelude finishes to enthusiastic applause. Rochester has Jane's hand. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 68. 
ROCHESTER Jane, if all those people came and spat at me, what would you do? 
JANE Turn them out of the room sir, if I could. 
ROCHESTER And if they cast you out for adhering to me? 
JANE I should care nothing about it. 
ROCHESTER You'd dare censure for my sake? 
Jane is frightened of his passion. 
JANE For the sake of any friend who deserved it. 
Rochester lets her hand go. He steps back. He goes to the morning room. Jane peers through the door, worrying how her last words have given offence. 
She sees a man rising to meet Rochester; handsome but gaunt and painfully thin. His smile doesn't reach his eyes - as if his soul is not quite his own. 
MASON Fairfax... 
ROCHESTER Richard. How the devil are you? 
They embrace, Rochester doing a fine impression of delight. 
INT. DAY. LOWOOD - THE HALL. 
Jane is standing on the pedestal of infamy, ten years old. Helen Burns is walking towards her with something in her arms. The rising sun is all around her. 
HELEN He is yours. 
Jane looks down at the bundle. In it, is a newborn boy. Jane looks up to ask Helen for help. But Helen has gone. 
Jane alone with her burden, teeters on the stool. The baby starts to cry. Jane panics. 
The crying becomes deafening, terrifying. It is not a baby's cry but a human scream. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 69. 
INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM/ THE GALLERY. 
Jane wakes, hearing a savage, sharp shriek of such power and intensity it seems to tear the night in two. 
Overhead, the sounds of a struggle begin - a deadly one. Jane hears footsteps rush past her door. She starts to pull on her dress. She hears a man's voice from above: 
MASON (O.S.) Help! Rochester, for God's sake come! 
A great stamp on the floor above; something falls with a thud; silence. Jane grabs her candle and leaves her room. 
The guests likewise are all issuing from their rooms; some with candles, some stumbling into the dark. The gallery is filling with terrified ladies and shocked gentlemen. Their shadows dance grotesquely on the walls. 
LADY INGRAM Oh what is it? 
BLANCHE Who is hurt? 
LORD INGRAM Where the devil is Rochester? 
JANE It seems to me a splendid mansion, sir. 
ROCHESTER It is slime and cobwebs. 
EXT. DAWN. THORNFIELD - THE ORCHARD. 
The orchard is a different world; the dawn light illuminating dewy trees. Rochester is silent. Jane is trying to fathom him. 
JANE Will Grace Poole stay here now? 
ROCHESTER Oh yes, don't trouble your head about her. 
JANE But sir - 
ROCHESTER Grace Poole is not the danger. 
He walks off, pulling the heads off flowers as he passes. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) You've noticed my tender feelings for Miss Ingram? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 73. 
JANE Yes sir. 
ROCHESTER Keep vigil with me again, the night before I marry. For now you've met my lovely one and you know her. She's a rare one, isn't she? 
JANE Yes sir. 
ROCHESTER A strapper, a real strapper; big and buxom... 
He throws a cankered rose across the orchard. Jane manages to articulate her anxiety. 
JANE I'd do anything for you sir, anything that was right. 
ROCHESTER (GENTLY) And if I ever bid you do what was wrong, you'd turn to me, quiet and pale and say 'I cannot do it.' And you'd be as immutable as a fixed star. 
Rochester, gazing at her, seems to have decided something. He turns a corner and is gone. Jane is left alone. We hear the sound of a blow. 
INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE WINDOW SEAT. 
The brutal face of John Reed, aged fourteen, triumphant after hitting Jane. 
JOHN That's for the look you had on your face. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE BILLIARD ROOM. 
Jane enters as Rochester helps Blanche to line up a shot. He is leaning intimately over her. She coyly permits him. 
JANE Excuse me, sir. 
Jane has ruined Blanche's shot. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 74. 
BLANCHE Does that creeping creature want you? 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE LONG GALLERY. 
Rochester has followed Jane out of the billiard room. 
JANE If you please, I want leave of absence for a week or two. 
ROCHESTER What to do? 
Jane shows him the letter. 
JANE This is from my old nurse, Bessie. She says my cousin John Reed is dead. He ruined himself and has committed suicide. The news has so shocked his mother, my Aunt, that it's brought on a stroke. 
ROCHESTER What good can you do her? 
JANE She's been asking for me. I parted from her very badly and I can't neglect her wishes now. 
ROCHESTER Promise me you won't stay long. 
JANE Sir, it seems you are soon to be married. 
ROCHESTER What of it? 
JANE Adele should go to school. 
ROCHESTER To get her out of my bride's way who might otherwise trample her? 
JANE And I must seek another situation. I intend to advertise. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 75. 
ROCHESTER At your peril you advertise. Trust it to me. I'll find you a good situation in time. 
He is on the point of returning to the billiard room. 
JANE And sir? Forgive me but I have had no wages as yet. 
ROCHESTER How much do I owe you? 
JANE Fifteen pounds. 
Rochester looks in his wallet. 
It is teeming with rain. Rochester and Jane run to the front entrance. He holds his jacket around her. Lightning. They reach the dry hearth inside. Thunder. They are both euphoric, breathless, laughing. 
JANE I must go. 
ROCHESTER Good night. Good night. 
He kisses her. They kiss again. Jane will not let him go. 
JANE Good night. 
As Jane runs upstairs she sees Mrs Fairfax, deeply shocked. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - MRS FAIRFAX'S PARLOUR 
Jane wears a lilac gown. Mrs Fairfax is very concerned. 
MRS FAIRFAX Have you accepted him? 
JANE Yes. 
MRS FAIRFAX Well I never would have thought. 
Jane is hurt. 
JANE Am I a monster? Is it so impossible that Mr Rochester should love me? 
MRS FAIRFAX No, I've long noticed that you were a sort of pet of his. But you're so young and so little acquainted with men. I don't want to grieve you child, but let me put you on your guard. Gentlemen in his position... Let's just say they're not accustomed to marry their governesses. Until you are wed, distrust yourself as well as him. Please, keep him at a distance - 
Jane has heard enough. She turns away. 
JANE Thank you. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 85. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE HALL 
Jane, walking through, finds herself in Rochester's arms. She laughs as he raises her off the ground. 
ROCHESTER Is this my pale elf? This sunny faced girl with the radiant eyes? 
JANE It is I, Jane Eyre sir. 
ROCHESTER Soon to be Jane Rochester. 
JANE It can never be, sir. Human beings were not meant to enjoy complete happiness on this earth. It's too much like a fairy tale. 
ROCHESTER (KISSING HER) Let the fairy tale begin. 
INT. DAY. A HABERDASHER'S SHOP. 
Rochester is rolling out reams of beautiful silks. Jane gets more uncomfortable as she looks at them. 
ROCHESTER This morning I wrote to my banker in London to send certain jewels. In a day or two I hope to pour them into you lap - 
JANE Oh, no sir - 
ROCHESTER I will put the diamond chain around your neck myself - 
JANE I don't want jewels - 
ROCHESTER I'll dress you in these satins - 
JANE Then you won't know me. I'll not be Jane Eyre any longer but an ape in a harlequin's jacket. Put them away. 
Jane pushes the silks away. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 86. 
ROCHESTER Well for cool native impudence and pure innate pride, you haven't your equal. 
JANE I'm naturally proud. And hard and flinty. You ought to know what sort of bargain you've made while you've still got time to rescind it. I want only one thing from you, Mr Rochester. 
ROCHESTER And what's that? 
JANE Your regard. 
Jane puts her arm through Rochester's. He smiles. 
ROCHESTER It's your time now, little tyrant but it'll soon be mine and when I have seized you, to have and to hold, I'll attach you to a chain, like this... 
Rochester flicks his watch into the air. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - MRS FAIRFAX'S PARLOUR. 
A summer gale. The moan of the wind sounds almost human. The light is sickly, nightmarish. 
A great box sits on the table, which Jane is opening. Adele, Sophie and Mrs Fairfax are all looking on. Jane pulls out a pearl coloured wedding gown. She is dismayed at its opulence. 
She holds it up to herself. Adele starts to play with the great veil. She wraps it round herself. She becomes caught in it, tangled, distressed. 
INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM. 
JANE Adele? 
Jane wakes. There is a candle alight at the end of her bed. Her eyes focus. Her wardrobe is open. Jane is unnerved. 
BRIGGS The marriage cannot go on. I declare the existence of an impediment. 
Rochester moves, shaken. 
ROCHESTER Proceed. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 90. 
BRIGGS The ceremony is quite broken off. An insuperable impediment to this marriage exists. 
ROCHESTER Proceed. 
BRIGGS Mr Rochester has a wife now living. 
Wood is utterly dismayed. 
ROCHESTER (SHOUTS) Where is your proof? 
Briggs starts to read out a document. 
BRIGGS (O.S.) I affirm and can prove that Edward Fairfax Rochester was fifteen years ago married to my sister, Bertha Antoinetta Mason at St James church, Spanish Town, Jamaica. 
Jane looks at Rochester. She forces him to look at her. He denies nothing; defies everything. 
BRIGGS (CONT'D) The record of the marriage will be found in the register of that church - a copy of it is now in my possession. Signed, Richard Mason. 
Rochester turns to Briggs. 
ROCHESTER That does not prove that my wife is still living. 
BRIGGS She was living two months ago. 
ROCHESTER How do you know? 
BRIGGS I have a witness to the fact. 
ROCHESTER Produce him or go to hell. 
The figure by the door steps out of the shadows. It is Richard Mason. Rochester flies down the aisle, a groan of rage escapes him. He lifts his arm. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 91. 
MASON Good God - 
WOOD Sir, you are in a sacred place - 
Mason flinches away. Rochester swallows his rage. 
ROCHESTER What have you to say? 
MASON She is at Thornfield Hall. I saw her there in April. I'm her brother. 
A grim smile contorts Rochester's lips. He turns towards Jane. She remains where she was abandoned - at the altar - tiny, under he vaulted arch. The bouquet falls from her hand. Rochester walks to her. 
ROCHESTER This girl knew nothing. She thought all was fair and legal. She never dreamt she was going to be entrapped into a feigned union with a defrauded wretch. 
A tiny breath is the only noise Jane utters. Rochester pulls her from the altar to his side. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) Come, Jane, come all of you and meet Mrs Poole's charming patient. Come and meet my wife. 
The sun outside is blinding. Jane closes her eyes. 
I/E. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE ENTRANCE / HALL 
Rochester enters pulling Jane after him, her hand still in his iron grip. Wood, Mason and Briggs follow. 
Mrs Fairfax, Adele, Sophie, Martha and Leah are waiting. Adele runs forward. Rochester stops her in her tracks. 
ROCHESTER Get back! Do not come near! Go, all of you - keep your congratulations - they come fifteen years too late! 
Adele has crumpled into frightened tears. Mrs Fairfax has her hand over her mouth, pale with shock. Jane meets her eye as Rochester pulls her up the stairs. A revelation. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 92. 
INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE THIRD FLOOR. 
The tapestried room. Rochester glances at Mason. He unlocks the inner door with one hand; the other won't let go of Jane. Grace Poole sits by a strongly guarded fire, stirring something in a pot. 
Rochester leads Jane and the men into the room. There is no window, no furniture except for Grace's chair; only a mattress on the floor. 
GRACE Sir, you can't be bringing folk in here. It's madness. 
Bertha Antoinetta Mason stands, amazed at the sight of her visitors. She wears a white shift. There are black rook feathers twined in her hair; her only ornament. 
ROCHESTER This clothed hyena is my wife. 
Bertha's pose is dignified, her expression grows triumphant. She approaches Rochester - her eyes locked with Jane's. Jane gazes: fear, disgust, compassion. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) I was duped into marriage with this lunatic fifteen years ago. 
Briggs and Wood are deeply repelled. 
WOOD Let us go. We have seen enough. 
Bertha puts her arm through Rochester's; lays her head on his shoulder; smiles at Jane, magnanimous in her victory. 
ROCHESTER My own demon, Bertha. 
Rochester perceives Jane's inanition. He carries her down the gallery. Jane clings on to her bag of belongings. She has nothing else left. 
INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE LIBRARY. 
Rochester has lain Jane in front of the fire. She forces herself to eat. Rochester gives her wine. She sips. 
ROCHESTER How are you now? 
JANE Much better, sir. I shall be well again soon. 
Rochester paces away to the fire. He comes back. Stoops his head down to Jane to kiss her. She turns her head away. 
ROCHESTER I know you. You are thinking. Talking is no use; you are thinking how to act. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 96. 
JANE All is changed, sir. I must change too. 
ROCHESTER Yes. There is no doubt that we both must change. I was wrong ever to keep you here; this narrow stone vault with its one real fiend. I'll shut it up. I'll pay Mrs Poole two hundred a year to care for its inmate and then no one will be harmed when she is prompted to burn people, to stab them, to bite the flesh from their bones - 
JANE Sir - you speak of her with hate - it is cruel. She cannot help being mad. 
ROCHESTER It's not because she's mad that I hate her. If you were mad do you think that I'd hate you? 
JANE I do. 
ROCHESTER Then you know nothing about me, nothing about the way I love. Your mind is my treasure - and if it were broken it would be my treasure still. You are my sympathy, my better self, my angel. I will wrap my whole existence round you. Let us leave here tomorrow. Come with me - as my wife. 
JANE No. 
ROCHESTER I'll pledge you my fidelity - 
JANE You can't. 
ROCHESTER You'll live a happy, most innocent life - 
JANE I must leave you, sir. 
Rochester cannot take this in. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 97. 
ROCHESTER Don't you love me? 
JANE I do love you - But I mustn't show it or speak it ever again. I must begin a new existence - strange scenes among strange faces. I must part from you. 
ROCHESTER Must be a part of me; that's what you mean. You are my wife, Jane. In truth - 
JANE You have a wife already. 
ROCHESTER I was tricked, duped into wedlock with that demon-hate, that harlot, that succubus upstairs. My father wanted her money and so I was sent to Spanish Town and the match was made. I hardly spoke with her. I was dazzled, ignorant, raw. My senses were besotted and I married her - gross, grovelling mole-eyed blockhead that I was. 
Rochester sits, staring at the fire. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) I lived with her for four years. She dragged me through all the degrading agonies which attend those bound to the intemperate and unchaste. Her excesses developed germs of madness and the doctors shut her up. One night, unable to bear her screaming hate and knowing I could never be rid of her, I put a gun to my head to kill myself. 
Jane is both appalled and moved. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) I would have pulled the trigger, died in that tropical place but for a breeze which blew in from the sea and smelt of home. With it, I came to my senses. Bertha Antoinetta Mason had abused my long suffering, sullied my name, outraged my honour and blighted my youth. It was enough. At that moment, as I decided to live, she ceased to be my wife. (MORE) Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 98. 
ROCHESTER (CONT'D) Only my father and brother knew of the marriage and by then they were both dead. I let my connection with her be buried in oblivion and I brought her here. I have seen that she's cared for as her condition demands and that is all that God and humanity asks. 
JANE I earnestly pity you, sir. 
He sees that Jane is silently crying. 
ROCHESTER Jane, it's not pity that I see in your face. It's not pity - 
JANE Do not say it - 
ROCHESTER It is love. 
JANE STOP - 
They are holding each other. 
ROCHESTER I was wrong to deceive you. It was cowardly. I should have appealed to your spirit - as I do now - should have opened my life, described my hunger for a better existence - shown you my chains. I give you my life. I give you my pledge. Please, be my wife. 
JANE I can not. 
ROCHESTER You would be my equal. 
JANE How? 
ROCHESTER I would make it so. 
JANE You once told me that hiring a mistress is the next worse thing to buying a slave. 
ROCHESTER Not my mistress - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 99. 
JANE I would not degrade you by having you live with a slave. 
ROCHESTER I said wife, my wife - 
Jane tries to rise. Rochester keeps hold of her hand. He gently pulls her down again. Comforts her. 
JANE Mr St John - What on earth brings you away from your hearth on a night like this? Has anything happened? There's no bad news I hope? 
ST JOHN How easily alarmed you are. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 102. 
He takes off his cloak; stamps the snow off his boots. 
ST JOHN (CONT'D) The snow was up to my waist at one point. 
JANE You are recklessly rash about your own health. 
ST JOHN Nonsense. 
St John's eyes alight on Jane's charcoal drawing. Jane snatches it away too late. There is a moment of silence. 
JANE Why are you come? 
ST JOHN An inhospitable question. 
JANE I mean on a night like this - 
ST JOHN I got tired of my mute books and empty rooms. Besides I've been told half a story and I'm most impatient to find out the end. 
JANE Please... 
Jane motions to St John to sit. He doesn't. She becomes increasingly uneasy as he speaks. 
ST JOHN Twenty years ago, a poor curate fell in love with a rich man's daughter and married her. She was disowned by her family and two years later the rash pair were both dead. They left a daughter which charity received into her lap - as cold as that snow drift I almost stuck fast in. Charity carried the friendless thing to the house of its rich maternal relations. It was reared by an aunt-in-law; I come to names now - Mrs Reed of Gateshead. 
Jane starts. She is on her feet. 
ST JOHN (CONT'D) Mrs Reed kept the orphan ten years and at the end of that time she was sent to Lowood school. (MORE) Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 103. 
ST JOHN (CONT'D) It seems her career there was very honourable. She became a teacher like yourself, and left it, like yourself, to be a governess. She undertook the education of the ward of a certain Mr Rochester - 
JANE Mr Rivers! - 
ST JOHN I can guess your feelings but hear me to the end. Of Mr Rochester's character I know nothing but he professed to offer honourable marriage to this young girl and at the very altar she discovered that he had a wife yet alive. His subsequent conduct is a matter of pure conjecture but when the governess was enquired after it was discovered that she had fled Thornfield Hall and no trace of her has since been found. Now isn't that an odd tale? 
JANE Since you know so much, perhaps you can tell me how he is. 
ST JOHN Who? 
JANE Mr Rochester; how is he? 
ST JOHN I'm ignorant of all concerning him. 
St John opens his pocket book and removes a piece of paper. 
ST JOHN (CONT'D) Well, since you won't ask the governess's name, I must tell you. I have it written down here in black and white. 
He hands her the paper. On it are doodled the heads of some of her pupils. She has absently written Jane Eyre in the margin several times. 
ST JOHN (CONT'D) A solicitor named Briggs wrote to me of a Jane Eyre. I knew a Jane Elliott. This paper resolved my suspicion into certainty. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 104. 
JANE The solicitor - Mr Briggs - does he have any news of Mr Rochester? 
ST JOHN Are you not going to enquire why he has gone to such lengths to find you? 
JANE What does he want with me? 
ST JOHN Merely to tell you that your uncle, Mr John Eyre of Madeira, is dead; that he has left you all his property and that you are now rich. 
JANE What? 
ST JOHN You are rich; quite an heiress. 
Silence. Jane is flabbergasted. 
ST JOHN (CONT'D) Your fortune is vested in the English funds; Briggs has the will and all the necessary documents. You can enter on immediate possession. 
At last, Jane looks questioningly up at him. 
ST JOHN (CONT'D) Your forehead unbends at last; I thought you were turning to stone. Perhaps now you will ask how much you are worth. 
JANE How much am I worth? 
ST JOHN Oh a trifle. Twenty thousand pounds - but what of that? 
The news literally takes Jane's breath away. 
JANE Twenty thousand pounds? 
St John begins to laugh at Jane's reaction. She has never seen him laugh before. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 105. 
ST JOHN If you'd committed a murder and I'd found you out, you could scarcely look more aghast. 
JANE There must be some mistake. It's two thousand, surely. 
ST JOHN It's twenty. You look desperately miserable about it, I must say. 
Jane still cannot take it in. She frowns in disbelief. 
ST JOHN You should look beyond Moor House, beyond the selfish calm and comfort of affluence. 
JANE Beyond to what? 
ST JOHN I go to India in six weeks. 
JANE So soon? - 
St John draws Jane away from her work. 
ST JOHN I can see what your gifts are and why they were given. Come with me. 
Jane is utterly crestfallen. 
ST JOHN (CONT'D) God and nature intended you for a missionary's wife. You are formed for labour not for love. I want to claim you - not for my pleasure but for God's service. 
JANE I'm not fit for it. I have no vocation. 
ST JOHN You're far too humble. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 109. 
JANE St John have mercy. I feel my mind shrinking - 
ST JOHN Don't be afraid. You are diligent, faithful, docile, courageous, gentle and heroic. Cease to mistrust yourself. I trust you unreservedly. Let me give you time to think. But know this; in you, I recognise a fellow soul, a soul that would revel in the flame and excitement of sacrifice. 
Jane is chilled to the bone by his words. St John leaves the garden and walks away over the moors. 
CUT TO: 
Jane leaning against the garden wall, trying to think, trying to compose herself. The sun is setting. 
INT. NIGHT. MOOR HOUSE - THE PARLOUR. 
Jane carrying a candle, opens the door. St John is at the table working by lamp light. The moon shines brightly in. 
JANE I used to long for a life of action, to overleap the horizon, to move in the world of men. Maybe God is giving me this. And what is there for me here? Pain and longing for what can't be. I don't know how long I would survive in India. My frame isn't strong. But I'll go with you, if I may go free. 
ST JOHN Free? 
JANE You and I had better not marry. 
ST JOHN Why not? 
JANE Because I am your sister. 
ST JOHN But you'll go with me. 
JANE Conditionally - as your curate. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 110. 
ST JOHN Jane, I don't need a curate; I need a wife. 
JANE I must have my heart and mind free, my own self to turn to. I couldn't become part of you - 
ST JOHN A part of me you must become or the whole bargain is void. How can I, a man not yet thirty take out to India a girl of nineteen, unless she is my wife? Don't offer God half a sacrifice. He must have all. And undoubtedly enough of love would follow to make the union right, even in your eyes. 
Jane is shocked. 
JANE Enough of love? 
ST JOHN Yes, quite enough. 
JANE St John, I scorn your idea of love. I scorn the counterfeit sentiment you offer and I scorn you when you offer it! 
St John is mortified. A slow rage begins to boil in him. 
ST JOHN I've uttered nothing that deserves scorn. 
JANE Forgive me but the very name of love is an apple of discord between us. My dear cousin, please abandon your scheme of marriage. 
ST JOHN No; and if you reject it, it's not me you deny but God. 
Jane is stung. St John has turned from her. His face is icy in the moonlight. 
JANE Do not be angry with me please. It makes me wretched. I want us to be friends. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 111. 
ST JOHN We are friends. I hope we can be more. 
JANE I cannot come as your wife. 
ST JOHN Why this refusal? It makes no sense! 
JANE If I were to marry you, you'd kill me. You're killing me now. 
ST JOHN (FURIOUS) I'd kill you? I am killing you? Your words are violent, unfeminine and untrue - 
JANE You'd kill me without drawing any blood or receiving on your conscience any stain of crime. 
ST JOHN What nonsense is this? 
JANE You'd experience no pain - but I tell you it would kill me! 
ST JOHN Why? 
I/E. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE FRONT DOOR/GROUNDS. 
Rochester, unshaven and unkempt is standing at his threshold. 
MRS FAIRFAX (V.O.) Shut himself up like a hermit. He only went out at night, when he walked like a ghost through the grounds. 
We see what he is looking at: an open carriage piled with luggage, into which Mrs Fairfax is helping Adele. Leah and Sophie are already sitting inside, dressed for a journey. 
MRS FAIRFAX (V.O.) (CONT'D) He'd have no one near him. Adele was sent off to school. He placed me here. Only John and Martha stayed - and Mrs Poole of course. 
Adele looks back at Rochester with tears in her eyes. He walks across the dark hall and slams the library doors. 
EXT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE ORCHARD. 
Rochester, in his shirt sleeves, is looking at the tree where Jane promised him her hand - now dying, cleft by lightning. The rising moon inhabits the sky. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 115. 
MRS FAIRFAX (V.O.) It was harvest time when it happened. No one knows how she got out. 
Rochester hears a cry from the top floor. He sets off, a look of finality on his face. 
INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE KITCHEN. 
Grace Poole is asleep, her empty jug of gin beside her. 
MRS FAIRFAX (V.O.) My theory is that when Mrs Poole was asleep, having taken too much of the gin and water... 
Rochester takes Grace's keys. 
INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE THIRD FLOOR 
Rochester opens the door to the inner chamber. 
MRS FAIRFAX (V.O.) ... The mad lady must have stolen her keys and let herself out. 
Bertha Antoinetta Mason, standing in the last patch of daylight thrown down from her skylight, sees that it is Rochester. She calmly walks towards him. 
Rochester graciously bows, indicating that she may leave. Bertha glides past him. She is free. 
INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE GALLERY 
Bertha walks past an elegant vase. She tips it to the floor. It smashes. Rochester pays it no heed. 
INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE LIBRARY. 
Rochester has stood Bertha at his desk. A case of jewels is open before her. She has put on a tiara, a diamond necklace, bracelets. She is gazing at a ruby brooch. She turns to Rochester. His expression is calm, resigned. Bertha begins to laugh. 
She takes the candelabra from the table. She admires herself in the mirror; her white shift, the black feathers, the jewels. She holds up the candelabra and sets the huge curtains alight. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 116. 
Rochester is impassive; he does nothing to stop her. As she passes, Rochester realises he is bleeding. She has run the brooch pin across him. 
INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE HALL/STAIRS. 
Bertha knocks a lamp onto the floor. The oil springs into flames, licking the tapestries and the paintings. Rochester sees his ancestors begin to burn. 
INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE SECOND FLOOR 
The conflagration is growing. Rochester sees Bertha leaving Jane's room. As he passes, he sees everything inside it being consumed by fire. He can't bear to look. 
EXT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE LEADS. 
Bertha is watching the rooks. Rochester goes to the edge of the roof. Bertha looks at him. The invitation is clear. Rochester is ready to die. 
Bertha sees the rooks wheeling away. She runs at the edge of the roof. Rochester sees her intention too late. He puts out his arm to stop her. 
For the perfect fraction of a second, Bertha flies. Rochester sees her fall; almost falls himself - saves himself. 
Life reawakens in him. Behind him, he sees Grace Poole, coughing, crawling up through the door. 
GRACE Antoinetta? 
Responsibility floods over him. He goes to her side, lifts Grace, helps her down the stairs. 
MRS FAIRFAX (V.O.) He didn't leave the house until everyone was out. Some say it was a just judgement on him for having her confined there all those years but for my part, I pity him. 
INT. DAY. MRS FAIRFAX'S COTTAGE 
Jane is deeply affected. 
MRS FAIRFAX He's alive child, but many think he'd be better off dead. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 117. 
JANE Why? 
MRS FAIRFAX When he was taken out from under the ruins, a beam had fallen in such a way as to protect him, partly - but his eye was taken out and his left hand so crushed that he lost it. The other eye inflamed and - he is blind. He's blind. 
Tears fall from Jane's eyes. 
MRS FAIRFAX (CONT'D) I know... it's a terrible thing. 
JANE I had dreaded worse. I'd dreaded he was mad. 
A great sense of urgency is coming over her. 
