"STILLNESS IN THE WATER" 
AKA: 
"JAWS" 
by 
Carl Gottlieb 
and 
Peter Benchley 
From the novel 
by 
Peter Benchley 
OVER BLACK 
Sounds of the innerspaces rushing forward. 
Then a splinter of blue light in the center of the picture. 
It breaks wide, showing the top and bottom a silhouetted curtain of razor sharp teeth suggesting that we are inside of a tremendous gullet, looking out at the onrushing undersea world at night. HEAR a symphony of underwater sounds: landslide, metabolic sounds, the rare and secret noises that certain undersea species share with each other. Also, the hint of familiar music, twisted and distorted by the depths. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BEACH – NIGHT – SHARK'S POINT OF VIEW – RISING OUT OF THE WATER, LOOKING AT 
It is a pleasant, moonlit, windless night in mid-June. We see a long straight stretch of white beach. Behind the low dunes are the dark shapes of large expensive houses. Hear a number of voices singing. It sounds like an eastern university's alma mater, no longer distorted. 
EXT. BEACH – NIGHT – ANOTHER ANGLE 
Around a blazing bonfire, a group of young men and women, beer cans (or maybe a keg) in evidence, as well as the bota Spanish leather wine-bag much in favor by beach and ski-bum types. 
The group is swapping sentimental alma maters, weepily singing eastern Ivy League anthems -– Dartmouth, Cornell, Harvard, Penn, etc. Two young people break away from the others. They 
are Tom Cassidy and Chrissie. Behind them, there is considerable necking activity; Tom and Chrissie are more serious. 
TOM 
Makes a clumsy attempt at snaring Chrissie, cups her from behind. She squirms playfully out of his grasp. We discover he's not especially sober. 
TOM Hey! Hey hey! I'm with you, right? 
EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE BEACH – NIGHT 
Tom and Chrissie are separated from the others, silhouetted against the fire, she pauses and looks at the ocean, he is plodding along in the sand, winded. 
Chrissie runs down the slope of the dune towards the water, leaving Tom reeling atop the dune. As she runs, she is shedding her clothes. Tom is trying to trail her by her clothes, like Hansel following bread crumbs through the woods. 
But Chrissie is way ahead of him. 
CHRISSIE C'mon! 
She runs headlong into the inviting sea, plunges cleanly into the water with a light "Whoops!" as the cold water sweeps over her. 
Behind all this, we continue to hear the sentimental, beery chorus of alma maters. 
Then we see it -- a gentle bulge in the water, a ripple that passes her a dozen feet away. A pressure wave lifts her up, then eases her down again, like a smooth, sudden swell. 
CHRISSIE Tommy? Don't dunk me... 
She looks around for him, finds him still on the beach, his feet tangled in his pants, which have dropped around his ankles. She starts to swim back in to him. 
EXT. CHRISSIE IN THE WATER 
Her expression freezes. The water-bulge is racing towards her. The first bump jolts her upright, out of the water to her hips. She reaches under water to touch her leg. Whatever she feels makes her open her mouth to scream, but she is slammed again, hard, whipped into an arc of about eight feet, up and down, submerging her down to her open mouth, choking off any scream she might try to make. Another jolt to her body, driving her under so that only her hair swirls on the surface. Then it too is sucked below in a final and terrible jerking motion. HOLD on the eddies and swirls until we're sure it's all over. 
EXT. CLOSE ON TOM ON BEACH 
In his shorts, laughing to himself, turning in slow stoned circles, held prisoner by his windbreaker which seems to have him in an armlock, as he struggles to free his arm from a tight sleeve. As he turns, we hear the alma maters in the background, from the fire. 
INT. BRODY HOUSE - BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING 
A shaft of morning sun blasts through the crack between the bottom of the shade and the windowsill, falling across the heads of the sleeping couple on the bed. It catches Martin Brody right across the eyes, bringing him up from sleep. The job is completed by the clock radio, which clicks on with local fisherman's report and weather. 
RADIO ANNOUNCER (V.O.) Hayes Landing reports conditions good, with stripers and jacks. The Coast Guard has no storm warning from Block Island to Cape Hatteras; a light chop with freshening winds, continued clear and mild... (etc.) 
Ellen Brody burrows her head under the covers, avoiding morning for a few precious minutes more. 
Michael heads toward the beach. 
BRODY (struggling to get his shirt on over his glasses) The office. 
He gets his shirt on with Ellen's help. She flicks imaginary dust from the badge on his chest. 
ELLEN Be careful. 
BRODY Here? You gotta be kiddin'. 
He gives her a light kiss, starts to go, with his cup. 
BRODY Love ya. 
ELLEN (kissing him back) Hey Chief. Bring my cup back. 
At the door, he takes a windbreaker off a peg and goes on out. 
We can see the Amity Police shoulder patch as he goes to a van parked outside. 
EXT. ISLAND HIGHWAY - MORNING 
Martin Brody's Country Squire police wagon rushes past, taking the view to an enormous billboard depicting a typical summer day in Amity. A beautiful model splashes in the gold surf, languishing in a Solarcaine sun. AMITY WELCOMES YOU is written above her flailing arms. 
EXT. AMITY BEACH - DAY 
Three small figures in the landscape, walking the beach. The surf is rough and there is sea-floor debris strewn about from the receding tide. 
CLOSER ANGLE 
Deputy Hendricks is searching the shore about one hundred yards down wind. Meanwhile, Brody, in his casual police attire, and Tom Cassidy, still in the clothing we saw him in last night, walk down the beach. Brody fingers the missing girl's shoes, purse and clothes. In the daylight, Cassidy misconducts himself, wavering between inflated maturity and tear-blown adolescence. 
BRODY Christine what? 
CASSIDY Worthingsly... Worthington -- no one ever died on me before. 
BRODY You picked her up on the ferry. 
CASSIDY I didn't know her. 
BRODY And nobody else saw her in the water? 
CASSIDY Somebody could've -- I was sort of passed out. 
BRODY Think she might've run out on you? 
CASSIDY Oh, no, sir. I've never had a woman do that. I'm sure she drowned. 
BRODY You from around here? 
CASSIDY No. Cambridge. Harvard. My family's in Tuxedo, New York, though. 
BRODY You here for the summer? 
CASSIDY Some friends and me took a house. 
BRODY (genuinely curious) What d'you pay for a place just for the summer? 
CASSIDY A thousand apiece, something like that. There's five of us. And we each kick in a hundred a week for beer and cleaning, stuff like that. 
BRODY Pretty stiff. 
A shrill whistle makes them turn. Hendricks is fifty yards away, on his knees. He blows again, a feeble report this time. 
BRODY Maybe that's your girl. 
Brody runs toward Hendricks, Cassidy hesitates, then follows with: 
CASSIDY (pathetically) You can't make me look -- ! 
MASTER ANGLE - THE SAND DUNE 
A skein of seaweed garnishes the base of this isolated dune. 
The booming waves and fizzing surf make dialogue inaudible. 
Deputy Hendricks on hands and knees, looking white as a sheet. Brody tells Cassidy to wait at the foot of the dune, and ventures up. Hendricks stops him with a wave-off, saying something at the same time. Brody nods understanding and steps up cautiously and looks down. He adjusts his glasses, trying to make sense of what he is looking at. 
Whatever he sees has a marked effect on his entire physique. 
Kicking out with his foot, Brody sends dozens of angry horseshoe crabs into an escape frenzy and they boil over the top of the dune and down its slopes. 
Cassidy takes a few uneasy steps backwards when Brody waves him over. He shakes his head. An awkward moment. Then Cassidy shuffles forward and up the few remaining feet, his eyes looking everywhere but down. Brody says something else and Cassidy shakes his head again, eyes out at sea. Brody puts his hand gently around the quaking man's shoulder. 
KEISEL Look at those fences! Little guys about eight to ten years old. And look at this! 
He holds up bicycle. The bicycle's spokes are bent and broken from some sort of blows. 
KEISEL They did that with their bare hands. 
BRODY Call me later in the day, okay, Harry? 
ANGLE - AMITY GAZETTE NEWSPAPER OFFICE - PORCH 
Santos emerges with Ben Meadows, the stylish, late-thirties editor of the Amity Gazette. Together they cut a beeline for the other side of the street. 
ANGLE - AMITY STREET 
Past taverns and chowder shacks, past bleacher construction and July Fourth posters, Brody enters Hardware and Sporting Goods... so overstocked that beach umbrellas, aluminum deck chairs, and rainbow beach towels splash a surplus of color from the display window to the sidewalk. 
INT. HARDWARE STORE – DAY 
The store proprietor is busy at work on an inventory list with a mainland delivery man. 
LYNWOOD Stuff's no good to me in August when the Pilgrims come in June... (to Brody) Go on and help yourself to whatever you need, Chief. Can you work the register? 
EXT. HARDWARE STORE AND STREET - DAY 
Brody emerges with enough poster-board, wooden stakes, nails, paint, and brushes to close every beach on the island. He starts back the way he came when Hendricks shoots up the street in the patrol jeep. He stops fast enough to call attention, leans out the window. 
HENDRICKS Polly told me to tell you there's a scout troop in Avril Bay doing the mile swim for their Merit Badges. I couldn't call them in, there's no phone out there. 
BRODY (hands him the sign material) Get out of there – take these back to the office and make up some 'Beach Closed' signs, and let Polly do the printing. 
HENDRICKS What's the matter with my printing? 
EXT. VAUGHN'S REALTY – DAY 
Revealing Larry Vaughn, the Mayor of Amity, exchanging anxieties with Ben Meadows and Coroner Santos and two other city Selectmen. They come out in a group, reach the sunlight, and squint down the street as Brody careens around the corner and out of sight. Deputy Hendricks, laden with his arts and crafts, passes them on the street front. 
VAUGHN What have you got there, Lenny? 
HENDRICKS We had a shark attack at South Chop this morning, Mayor. Fatal. Gotta batten down the beach. 
Vaughn and group exchange horrified looks, but we get the impression it is not in response to the shark-attack news. 
VAUGHN Who've you told this to, Lenny? 
HENDRICKS I just found out about it -- but there's a bunch of Boy Scouts in the water a coupla miles down the coast from where we found the girl. Avril Bay, thereabouts. Chief went to dry them off. 
VAUGHN (to Meadows) Take my car, okay? (to Hendricks) You come with us, Lenny. 
HENDRICKS I've got all these signs here... 
VAUGHN C'mon, it'll give us time to think about what they're going to say. 
They all crowd into a Cadillac El Dorado with Vaughn Realty signs on the doors. 
EXT. AVRIL BAY - DAY 
A flotilla of twenty exhausted Boy Scouts round a buoy that marks the official course. A rowboat with Scoutmaster using a bullhorn keeps pace, and urges the boys on. 
SCOUTMASTER (bullhorn effect) Let's go, Robbie. You too, Hofner. Boyle, keep your head up. Alberts, keep kicking... (etc., ad lib) 
EXT. ON THE BEACH AT AVRIL BAY - DAY 
Two older Seascouts look on with stop watches and clipboards, while some Parents shade their eyes from the sun, watching their offspring. Brody pulls up in the Amity Police jeep, and starts toward the people. Behind him, Vaughn's Cadillac pulls up and skids to a stop. In it are Vaughn, Meadows, the Doctor, maybe a Selectman, and Hendricks, with his arms still full of sign material. Vaughn intercepts Brody, the others circle around him, effectively slowing his progress through the sand to the scouts. 
VAUGHN Martin! (he catches up with him) Are you going to shut down the beach on your own authority? 
BRODY Do I need any more authority? 
MEADOWS Technically, you need the instruction of a civic ordinance, or a special meeting of the town selectmen... 
VAUGHN (the good guy) That's just going by the book. We're just a little anxious that you're rushing into something serious here. This is your first summer. 
BRODY Now tell me something I don't know. 
VAUGHN All I'm saying is that Amity is a summer town -- we need summer dollars, and if they can't swim here, they'll use the beaches at Cape Cod, or Long Island. 
BRODY So we should set out a smorgasbord? 
MEADOWS We're not even sure what it was. 
BRODY What else could've done that? 
VAUGHN (to Doctor) Boat propeller? 
MAX TAFT (an adult) Looks like another big season. Gets worse every year. 
MRS. TAFT And none of them from the Island. Just a lot of bother. 
Brody (and we) hear a shrill scream from the water. He stretches to look past the group, to see what's happening out there. 
BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW - THE WATER 
The young lady is disappearing under the water, pulled under the waves by some force. She is shrieking. She pops right up again riding the shoulders of her boyfriend, who pulled her under. She's laughing hysterically. Brody is unamused. 
THE ADULTS 
BRODY (to Taft) What? 
TAFT Present company excepted, but off- islanders are a pain in the butt. Pardon my French. 
Ellen captures Sean, and holds him playfully, an example. 
ELLEN What about this kid? What if he were born here. That make him an islander? 
TAFT Just 'cause a cat has kittens in an oven, it don't make them muffins. 
SEAN I'm not a muffin! I'm a boy! 
Brody rumples his hair and sets him off to play. 
ANGLE ON ANOTHER SMALL BOY, PLAYING ALONE 
It's Alex Kintner, and his mother, nearby, reading a novel. 
Alex is towing a funny rubber raft, and headed for the water. 
MRS. KINTNER Alex! Alex Kintner! Where do you think you're going? 
ALEX Water. Just once more, please? 
MRS. KINTNER Let me see your fingers -- 
He holds out his hands. 
MRS. KINTNER They're beginning to prune. 10 minutes more. 
Alex starts for the ocean. Behind him, Michael and his gang are also heading for the inviting waves. Brody is watching them go, his spine rigid with tension. 
MAN AND HIS DOG 
As Alex and the boys hit the water, we see the man throwing his stick into the waves, his dog swimming strongly after it. 
BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW 
Out beyond the kids and the dog, the Fat Lady is bobbing around, out way too far, isolated from the other swimmers. 
UNDERWATER VIEW - EXT. - DAY 
A fish's-eye view of the bathers: lots of little kicking legs, rafts with tasty arms dangling in the blue, slowing circling, favoring one raft (little Alex's). The Kintner boy's legs and arms are kicking and paddling, producing bizarre underwater vibrations of more than passing interest. Dog goes by, dog-paddling along. 
ON THE BEACH 
Brody is half-rising, looking out over the water. The Fat Lady is not where he remembered her. He scans the water anxiously. 
ELLEN Do you want the boys to come in? Honey, if you're worried... 
A Black Object swims across the water. It's the dog, breasting against the surf. 
ANGLE ON THE WATER - BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW 
It's the Fat Lady, floating, relaxing. A black object swims up to her. It's not the dog. It rears up out of the water. 
It's a man in a black bathing cap. They exchange distant pleasantries, he strokes away. 
ANOTHER ANGLE - WATER 
Alex Kintner, paddling around, making boat sounds, tooting, going "vroom, vroom." 
ANGLE ON THE BOY AND GIRL 
They kiss, embrace, kiss again. Strong stuff. They sink beneath the waves, knotted in an embrace. 
ANGLE ON MICHAEL BRODY AND HIS FRIENDS 
He's trying to salvage a soggy piece of birthday cake, holding it above the water, paddling with his other hand. The bandage has come part way loose, and his cut is trailing in the water. 
BRODY AND ELLEN ON THE BEACH 
MEADOWS I agree. If she's going to advertise, I wouldn't recommend out-of-town papers. Amity people could take care of this. 
BRODY I'm responsible for public safety around here... 
VAUGHN Then go out tomorrow and make sure no one gets hurt. (addressing the crowd) Everybody, could I have your attention? Since this affects all of us, I suggest we move into council chambers, where there's more room... 
There is a flurry and a bustle as everyone rearranges themselves and makes their way into the Amity Selectmen's Council Chambers. 
INT. COUNCIL CHAMBER - DAY 
The crowd is thronging into the large room. Already in the room is a solitary figure, standing all the way in the rear, watching everyone as they enter. Against the back wall is a large blackboard used for town business during meetings. 
VAUGHN Well, here we all are; anyone have any special questions? 
DENHERDER Is that $3000 bounty on the shark in cash or check? (laughter from all) 
VAUGHN That's private business between you brave fishermen and Mrs. Kintner. (to Brody) -- Chief -- 
BRODY (stepping in) I'd like to tell you what we're doing so far. These are some of the steps I've taken as Chief of Police... 
MEADOWS (leading the direction of the discussion) What's going on with the beaches, Chief? 
All react. 
BRODY I'll get to that in a minute. First, I plan to start our seasonal summer help early, and to use shark spotters on beaches open to the sea. I'd like cooperation from local fishermen, and I've also contacted the Oceanographic Institute over on the mainland. 
VAUGHN (Interrupting -- sotto voice to Brody) No need to involve outsiders in our business, Martin. 
WOMAN Are you going to close the beaches? 
BRODY Larry and I have also decided to close the beaches for a short time. 
Pandemonium. A collective nerve has been touched. 
VAUGHN Only 24 hours! 
BRODY I didn't agree to that! 
MRS. TAFT That official business could take all summer! 
MR. KEISEL Maybe it's better to close. 
Two opinions have been expressed, and the crowd takes sides vociferously, ad libbing assent or dissent depending on the point of view held forth. 
THOSE IN FAVOR 
MR. WISEMAN We should make sure there is no danger. 
MR. HASSETT I didn't raise my kids to be some fish's lunch! 
THOSE OPPOSED 
MRS. TAFT The motel is all I own -- you pull the plug on this town and I go down the drain with it. 
MR. POSNER Nobody's seen a shark. 
MR. POLK We'll lose business, we lose taxes, we lose our shirts! 
ANGLE ON QUINT, THE MAN IN THE BACK OF THE ROOM 
He has just run his large, coarse fingernails over the blackboard. He is a large, rough man, a professional fisherman marked by daily physical toil, About 45 or 50, it's hard to tell where the scars leave off and the wrinkles begin. There is a bit of the showman in him, as well as a bit of killer- whale. 
QUINT (after taking a deep breath) You all know me. You know what I do for a living. I'll go out and get this bird for you. He's a bad one and it's not like goin' down the pond chasing blue-gills and tommy- cods. This is a fish that can swallow a man whole. A little shakin', a little tenderizing and down ya' go. (a look to Vaughn) You gotta get this fellow and get him quick. If you do, it'll bring a lot of tourist business just to see him and you've got your business back on a paying basis. (beat) A shark of that size is no pleasure and I value my neck at a hell of a lot more'n 3,000 bucks. (a deadly look) I'll find him for three. But I'll kill him for ten. 
Crowd reaction. 
QUINT (he rises up) The bastard is costing you more'n that every day. Do you wanna stay alive and annee up the ten or play it cheap and be on welfare next winter. (a final moment) I'm gonna kill this thing... just a matter of whether I do it now -- or at the end of summer. 
VAUGHN Thank you very much, Mr. Quint, the Selectmen will take your offer under advisement 
INT. BRODY'S STUDY AT HOME - SUNSET 
A riffly blur, color alternating with black and white. The dizziness stops on a book page showing a black and white rendering of eight species of shark. The banner at the top of the page reads: THE KNOWN AND REPUTED MANEATERS. 
The riffling begins again, stops on a grizzly photograph of scar tissue on six former shark victims. Riffling -- stop. 
Photograph of five Ichthyologists posing on wooden stools, framed by the enormous jaws of a prehistoric shark from the family Carcharodon charcharias. 
BRODY 
his reading glasses reflecting a stack of twelve library books, all on the subject of sharks and shark attacks. The door opens and Ellen enters, quietly, in respect for Brody's mood. 
ELLEN Can you stand something to eat? 
CLOSE - CHAIN IN WHEELBARROW 
Suddenly zipping out, faster and faster, as both men straighten. 
Denherder is goggle-eyed. 
DENHERDER Hey! What's this? 
The chain is coming out so fast that it begins to drag the wheelbarrow to the end of the jetty. A section of chain tangles around the handle and flips the entire machine into the air. Both men watch dumbfounded as the inner tube, racing out to sea in a wake of white water, suddenly dips under. 
CHARLIE Look at him take it! 
DENHERDER Do I set the goddam hook? 
CHARLIE Let him do it! Go-go-go-go-go! 
It is then that the chain whips taut against the narrow pilings. 
CLOSE - PILING 
A lineup of five decrepit 2 x 4 inch pilings SNAP with a resounding CRACK. 
ANGLE - JETTY 
The end of the jetty is yanked loose. Denherder is flipped like a chip over the side and into the cold night water, where he manages to snag hold of a splintered timber. 
DENHERDER'S POINT OF VIEW 
The severed section of jetty, a joined platform of footboards, is being dragged seaward with Charlie sitting dazed on top of it, his lit pipe still going. 
DENHERDER CHARLIE! JUMP! 
Charlie rolls into the water, sputters, turns to watch the flotilla of wood draw away. 
CLOSE - CHARLIE 
looking seaward. 
CHARLIE'S POINT OF VIEW 
The end of the jetty makes a 180-degree turn and heads back in his direction. 
CHARLIE Holy Jesus Christ! 
Denherder steps up on the broken-off piling just to be out of the water. 
DENHERDER Get the hell out! Charlie! Swim! 
Charlie, inhaling terror, trying to slog to shore. The jetty is getting closer. Suddenly, an enormous black fin breaks water like a periscope, making course corrections as it comes for Charlie. 
Denherder jumps from piling to piling, almost losing his balance on his way to help Charlie. Charlie has reached the last pylon toward open sea, and his hands clamber for a hold. But -- 
INSERT - CHARLIE'S HANDS 
The algae is too slippery, and his fingers keep sliding back. 
That's when the fin behind him seems to reach up to the sky and Charlie manages, with Denherder's desperate help, to make it safely to shore. The remains of the pier float belly- up in the inlet. 
CLOSE ON THE HARBORMASTER OF AMITY - DAY 
He is sitting on a little canvas folding chair, eating a bowl of Cheerios with milk and sugar, watching a panorama of ineptitude and greed unfold before his old seaman's eyes. 
The Amity Pier area is a minor madhouse: out-of-state cars elbow local vehicles for parking space at the foot of the dock, and a parade of bounty-hunting townspeople, islanders, off-islanders, tourist, and others shout and push their way onto the crowded pier, each carrying some bizarre or appropriate tool for the real or imagined capture of an unarmed shark of indeterminate size. 
Rods and reels, drop lines, crossbows, slingshots, harpoons, shotguns, rifles, nets and tridents; every fishing supply store and sporting goods house within a hundred miles has been cannibalized to equip this weird array. 
ANGLE ON BRODY AND HENDRICKS ARRIVING ON THE SCENE 
Not having room to bring their police vehicle anywhere near this mess, they are proceeding on foot into the confusion. 
HENDRICKS ...So then Denherder and Charlie sat there trying to catch their breath, and figuring out how to explain to Charlie's wife what happened to her freezer full of meat. 
BRODY That wasn't funny. 
Some of the locals greet Hendricks with occasional nods of recognition, or an ad libbed "Hi, Lenny," or "Hey, Lenny." 
HENDRICKS Mrs. Kintner must've put her ad in Field and Stream. 
BRODY Looks more like the readers of the National Enquirer. 
ANGLE ON BOAT RENTAL - PIER 
An argument is in progress between and Out-of-Towner and the Boat Rental Man. 
Brody tucks the dynamite under his arm, and continues down the pier. Hooper is still with him. 
All around them are two distinctly different breeds; the quiet pros, like Ben Gardner, in well-worn, comfortable clothes, with efficient, sensible gear, and the amateur crazies, with all manner of weapons and impractical, silly tourist clothing. 
INT. DOCK SHED - DAY 
Brody is on the phone, talking to his office, trying to get Hendricks' attention. He throws a handful of washers at the window. 
HOOPER There's a fantail launch out there that won't make it beyond the breakwater. 
BRODY You're tellin' me. I swear, this town has gone crazy. 
HOOPER Officer, I wonder if you could tell me where I could find Chief Brody? 
BRODY Who are you? 
HOOPER Hooper, Matt Hooper. From the Oceanographic Institute. (holds out his hand) 
EXTERIOR - OCEAN - DAY 
Ben Gardner's boat is in the lead with Gardner's shouting derisive comments at the crowd headed out from land. The armada is spread out and moving in a ragged circle, fifteen boats in all. One man heaves cherry bombs into the water. A smaller boat going in the opposite direction offers us Barwood, forking spaghetti leftovers into the ocean while his friend pours out a bottle of ketchup. 
A speedboat chugs by, one of the occupants reading instructions aloud from a book entitled "Sharks - East Coast, Vol. I." 
boatload of impoverished scallop fishermen throw a net overboard, full of gaps and split ends. The professionals look professional, but the landlubbers out for the $3000 make it impossible for everybody. Collisions are barely averted. 
THE RUBE GOLDBERG ERROR 
The Out-of-Towner in a small boat is bent over in a life and 
death struggle, his rod in a tight arc. His buddy leaps across to lend a hand. 
Twenty yards away in another boat the same struggle ensues. 
This time it's the overloaded boat with the poor scallop fishermen. Shouts of I'M ON! DIG IN! STRIKE! Then a tangle of tackle springs from the water. They have hooked each other. 
Joy turns to swearing.  Arnold Felix stands up to applaud the mishap, while his buddy Pratt takes careful aim with his Remington 1100 12-gauge and blasts at the tackle as if it were a clay pigeon.  The tangle explodes -- 
Both the Out-of-Towners and the Scallop Fisherman falls over backward -- 
ANGLE - HARRY'S BOAT 
Three men are aboard, one holding a rod which holds a fast arc. A few yards off stern we see a triangular dorsal fin crossing back and forth, struggling, jerking, the mighty tail threshing. One man is screaming success, the other two slapping the angler on the back. 
CLOSE - PRATT AND FELIX 
They spot it and sour. 
PRATT Well, get over there! He ain't caught it yet! 
The owner of Pratt's boat throws it forward and Pratt removes a .45 automatic from the holster of his belt. He tests it, firing once in the air. As they near the scene of the struggle, eleven other boats begin converging, until -- 
HARRY'S BOAT 
Everyone wants to get into the act. They are attacking the 
threshing beast with all they've got. Pratt uses his automatic, another blasts point blank with a shotgun. There are occasional water ricochets and the bounty hunters duck from time to time as bullets skip by. Finally, the shark stops threshing. 
FELIX AND PRATT 
Their boat has moved close to the shark, closer than Harry's. 
PRATT (exultant) Hand me that pole! Quick! 
One of his party in the over-filled boat grabs a gaff and leans out to grab the moribund shark. But Harry won't give up the line, still reeling in. 
HARRY Beat it! I hooked him! 
PRATT How's the family, Harry? (to the man with gaff) Go on and do it! 
MAN WITH GAFF We split down the middle? 
Pratt nods reluctantly. The man swings, lodges the gaff and hauls the shark up onto the gunwale. A paroxysm of cheers from the surrounding boats. Smoke flares are fired into the air. 
HARRY (a tug-of-war) Let go my shark! 
It is a ten-foot tiger, and what a mess -- splattered with bullet punctures, gashes, bleeding from several orifices. But it is not dead -- it kicks back to life and threatens to capsize the boat. Pratt panics and fires six times with his .45. The bullets pierce the shark's head, pass through, and split the fiberglass hull through which a flood of water rises. Everybody stands up as the boat slips beneath them. 
INT. MORGUE - DAY 
The Amity Morgue is also the Amity Funeral Home, a Victorian house that normally serves as the community's mortuary. The Coroner, a professional small-town GP, is standing by as Hooper is speaking into a sophisticated cassette recorder with a headpiece that leaves his hands free for measurement with a calibrator or calipers. 
BRODY Let's show Mr. Hooper our accident. 
HOOPER There are hundreds of different kinds of sharks; makos, blues, hammerheads, white-tips... any one of them could've attacked. Look -- shark digestion is slow. We could open this one up, and find whatever he's been eating is still inside. 
VAUGHN That's disgusting! This is the largest, meanest, most vicious shark ever landed off Amity Island, and a known maneater! 
HOOPER Let's just cut him open and see what's inside... 
BRODY Why not, Larry? We could get a positive confirmation that way. 
VAUGHN Be reasonable, boys -- this isn't the time or the place to do some kind of half-assed autopsy on a fish. Ben... (to Meadows) do you have all the pictures you need? 
MEADOWS Plenty. 
HOOPER Wait a minute... 
Felix, Pratt and the others ad lib disagreement. "You're not gonna cut up my trophy," etc. 
VAUGHN (seeing something offstage, with low intensity) I am not going to stand here and watch this fish cut open and see some kid fall out on the dock. Besides... (he indicates off) 
We see Mrs. Kintner approaching, dressed in black. 
VAUGHN (to Brody) Chief, I'll take responsibility for this. Boys, cut this ugly sonofabitch down before he stinks up the whole island. Harve, tomorrow you and Carl take him out and dump him right in the drink. 
MRS. KINTNER JOINS THE GROUP 
She seeks out Brody, and stops in front of him. 
MRS. KINTNER Chief Brody? 
He nods, she slaps him full across the face. There is an embarrassed silence. Some people leave, following a trend that began with the first mention of cutting open the shark. 
MRS. KINTNER My Alex was a beautiful little boy and you killed him. Did you know that? You knew there was a shark out there. You knew a girl got killed here last week. I just found that out. But you knew. You knew it was dangerous, but you let people go swimming anyway. You knew all those things, and still my boy is dead now and there's nothing you can do about that. My boy is dead. I wanted you to know that. 
She stops, unable to continue. Her father takes her arm and leads her away. Pratt, Harry and the others trail off after her. During the rest of the scene, the camera tightens in on Brody to the exclusion of the others. 
VAUGHN I'm sorry, Martin. She's in a sick, terrible state. 
HOOPER Look, maybe this is the wrong time to pursue this, but I'm not sure... 
Before Hooper can finish, Brody's shoulders slump and he goes slack. 
BRODY (almost to himself) She's right. 
VAUGHN Let's all get out of here, this place stinks. 
BRODY I'm going home. 
He turns and leaves abruptly, surrendering the dock to Vaughn and Hooper, who eye each other with mutual dis-admiration. 
INT. BRODY HOUSE - NIGHT - DINING ROOM 
Brody and Ellen, Sean and Michael, have all finished dinner. 
Brody's plate is untouched, a virgin meatloaf. His glass, on the other hand, is well used, with the remnants of a stiff scotch and ice. He is staring across the table at the youngest, Sean, who makes a face at him. He makes a face back. 
They play this game together for a few minutes. 
BRODY C'mere and give Daddy a kiss. 
SEAN Why? 
BRODY Because he needs it. 
Sean gives Daddy the kiss. Brody shoos him and Michael off to bed. Ellen, who is feeling progressively more left out with each passing moment, gets up abruptly and clears a few dishes. Brody is not letting her into his world for the moment, and it shows. There's a knock at the door. 
HOOPER (O.S.) Martin Brody residence? 
Ellen opens the door for him. 
HOOPER Hi. I'm Matt Hooper. If your husband is here, I'd like to talk to him. 
ELLEN So would I. Come on in. 
Hooper enters. He's carrying a couple of bottles of wine which he picked up in town. He sits down near Brody. 
ELLEN Would you like something? Some coffee? 
HOOPER (seeing Brody's plate) Is anyone having this...? 
He starts in on it, as soon as someone has indicated "go ahead." 
HOOPER Dynamite! (to Brody) How was your day...? 
BRODY Swell. 
BRODY Why don't we have one more drink, you and I, and then we go down and cut open that old shark and see for sure what's inside him, or not. 
ELLEN Can you do that? 
BRODY I am Chief of Police. I can do anything I want. (to Hooper) You want to come? 
HOOPER I'm flattered you should ask. 
He gets up and they both start out. Ellen watches them go. 
INT. BOAT SHED - NIGHT 
Dark, spooky shed, with shadows of boats and strange silhouettes of boat parts and scaffolding. At one end, the large, symmetrical bulk of the shark's carcass lies on a tarp. A single dark figure is bending over the dead shark. 
The large double doors at one end of the shed squeak open, and the Shadowy Figure moves abruptly away from the shark. 
The new entrants move into the shed. It is Hooper and Brody and they are continuing the conversation begun in the car on the way over. 
As the Shadowy Figure moves silently into a vantage point against one wall, he passes through the light from a window; it is Quint, and we only see him long enough to recognize him as he backs against the wall. 
HOOPER ...And it was Dartmouth Winter weekend, and she was Homecoming Queen, and I was her date; then she got into the fact that her family had more money than my family, and she was right -- her great-grandfather was in mining, and my ancestors were Yankee shipbuilders. So we broke up and I went home with some beatnik from Sarah Lawrence. 
BRODY What stinks so bad? 
HOOPER Our friend, the shark. 
They bend over the shape like 18th century graverobbers. 
HOOPER We always had a summer place on the water -- Newport, the Vineyard, so I figured I'd major in something I knew about. Oceanography, marine biology. It was that, or design racing yachts like my older brother. Hmmm. He we go. Up the old alimentary canal. Hold the light. 
We hear a slurp and a squish as Hooper produces a big knife and dips into the shark with a major incision. 
HOOPER We open the abdominal cavity and check the digestive tract. Simple. (he attends to his work) 
From his vantage point, Quint watches, unseen by the two men. 
Brody is holding the light, fighting the gag reflex, fascinated by the bizarre ritual. 
BRODY What's that? 
HOOPER Half a flounder. Hmmm... a burlap bag... a paint can... aha! 
BRODY What? What?! 
HOOPER Just as I thought. He drifted up here with the Gulf Stream, from southern waters. 
BRODY How can you tell? 
HOOPER (showing it) Florida license plate. 
BRODY He ate a car? 
HOOPER (laughs) No, but Tiger sharks are the garbage cans of the ocean. They eat anything. But this one didn't eat any people. There's nothing here... 
He kicks the remains around below camera. 
HOOPER ...Nothing. 
BRODY What do we do? 
HOOPER If you're looking for a shark, you don't look on land. You go out and chum for him. 
BRODY Chum? 
HOOPER Only one sure way to find him -- offer him a little something to eat. Chum -- blood, waste meat, fish, anything. They can sense it miles away. If he's out there, we might be able to get a closer look at him. (checks his watch) It's a good time, too. They're night feeders... 
EXT. ABOARD HOOPER'S BOAT - NIGHT (TANK) 
We see Brody, looking sick and nervous, holding on anxiously as the "Fascinatin' Rhythm" moves slowly ahead trolling at night. His glasses are already flecked with the white salt of dried seawater. He is wearing a life-preserver. 
Hooper is at the wheel, a chart spread in front of him, his eyes scanning the sea restlessly, checking the dials and gauges in front of him as well as the electronic depth-finding and "fish-finder" gear mounted in the cockpit. A green glow shines from the instruments on his face. Two closed-circuit TV cameras mounted below the hull flash their pictures onto monitors in the dash. 
In the aisle between the seats is a large container filled with unpleasant-looking bait; Hooper is long-lining for signs of shark, and chumming. 
HOOPER (indicating distant flashing beacon) That's the Cape Light -- we're on the stretch where he's feeding, if he's still here. 
Brody, bored, tired, and slightly queasy, is trying to concentrate on anything but the motion of the boat. He stares at the sophisticated electronics displays. 
BRODY What is all this stuff? 
HOOPER (ticking them off) Depth-finder, fathometer, sonar, closed-circuit TV -- fore and aft -- RDF, single side band... (points to themselves) And two loose nuts behind the wheel. 
BRODY Can you tell from that if a big man- eater is around? 
Hooper takes a last few breaths, orients himself, takes a long, hard look at the quiet, open ocean, and falls into the sea. 
CLOSE ON BRODY 
He is studying the surface, trying to follow Hooper's movements. Brody is forcing himself to stay at the edge of the boat by sheer willpower and grim determination. Brody is fascinated by the sea like a bird facing a cobra. He is very much alone. He grasps a flashlight or boathook as a fragile defense against the unknown. 
PAST BRODY'S BACK TO THE ELECTRONICS 
Beep, chatter, blip. 
UNDERWATER SEQUENCE - HOOPER 
Hooper descends in a froth of bubbles. Warily he turns a full circle with his hotlight. At first we see nothing out of place about the Flicka except that it is lying so low in the water. But as Hooper travels the bottom looking for damage, he comes across a jagged hole two-thirds of the way forward. 
The hole is about the size of a basketball, and the wood around it has been bashed and splintered. Hooper explores the hole with his hands, then takes the knife from its sheath and begins to dig at something. Whatever it is comes free in his hand. As he studies his find, his light wanders upward, pointing directly into the dark hole. Hooper looks up... 
CLOSE - HOLE 
Ben Gardner's dead face stares out through the hole in the Flicka, eyes and mouth gaping in frozen horror, his skin pinched like a prune. 
CLOSE - HOOPER 
bumps his head in trying to get away, seems to yell through escaping bubbles. We hear the gasping shout as a bubbling roar in the ears. His mask fills with water as he flails for the surface. Miscalculating, he bumps into the hull of his own boat, shocked, dismayed, his system jangling with adrenaline shock, his hands open, and the object he pried loose from the hull drifts down and out, falling into the eternity of the ocean bottom. He finally bursts through the surface. 
END OF UNDERWATER SEQUENCE 
THE BOAT, HOOPER EMERGING FROM THE WATER 
He is gasping for breath, his whole body vibrating with urgency. The salt water in his lungs combines with the adrenaline in his blood to deprive him of speech. 
BRODY You all right? 
HOOPER A White! A Great White, I found a tooth buried in the hull. He must've attacked... I knew it... Gardner's dead in there. I didn't see the mate... 
BRODY No shark did that to a boat! 
Hooper, despite his shock and surprise, is strangely elated, almost giddy with the wonder of his discovery. 
HOOPER Jesus Christ! A Great White! Who'd believe it! We're not talking about a shark, we're talking about a Shark! 
Brody sinks weakly into a chair. Brody huddles in the stern, Hooper kicks the engine in with a roar, and still a-shiver with excitement, turns the boat and its grim tow back to port. 
EXT. ISLAND HIGHWAY - THE BILLBOARD - DAY 
Next to the "Amity Welcomes You" billboard is a group of selectmen, Vaughn, Meadows, Hendricks, and another deputy standing by with paint and brushes. Brody's wagon is there, along with a few other cars. Busy late afternoon traffic is starting to pile up as early weekenders and curiosity seekers slow down to see what's happening. 
Behind the billboard, Brody and Hooper have gotten Vaughn to one side. They are making a closely reasoned presentation to him. 
BRODY There is a kind of shark called a Great White Shark that every expert in the world agrees is a maneater. 
HOOPER You're situation here suggests that a Great White has staked out a claim in the waters around Amity Island, and that he will continue to feed here as long as there is food in the water. 
BRODY There's no limits to where he can strike, and we've had three attacks and two deaths in the past few days. It happened like this before, in 1916, when a Great White killed five swimmers at Jones Beach, in Long Island. 
HOOPER A shark's attack is stimulated by the kind of splashing and activity that occurs whenever humans go swimming -- you can't avoid it! 
BRODY A 4th of July beach is like ringing a dinner bell, for Chrissake! 
HOOPER I just pulled a shark tooth the size of a shot glass out of the hull of a wrecked boat out there. 
BRODY We towed Ben Gardner's boat in, Larry; he was dead and his boat was all chewed up. 
VAUGHN Is that tooth here? Did anyone see it? 
HOOPER I don't have it. 
BRODY He lost it on the way up. 
VAUGHN What kind of a shark did you say it was? 
HOOPER Carcaradon carcharias. A Great White. 
VAUGHN Well, I'm not going to commit economic suicide on that flimsy evidence. We depend on the summer people for our lives, and if our beaches are closed, then we're all finished. 
BRODY We have got to close the beaches. We have got to get someone to kill the shark, we need non-corrosive mesh netting, we need scientific support... It's gonna cost money just to keep the nuts out and save what we have. 
VAUGHN I don't thing either of you is familiar with our problems... 
HOOPER I'm familiar with the fact that you are going to ignore this thing until it swims up and bites you on the ass! There are only two ways to solve this thing: you can kill it, or you can cut off its food supply... 
BRODY That means closing the beaches. 
VAUGHN Come here, I want to show you something. 
Brody and Hooper, badly in need of sleep, are watching the crew straggle in. Already the first of the holiday beach- goers are piling out of their cars in a brightly colored cascade of beach balls, umbrellas, blankets, portable bar-b- ques, radios, sun visors, reflectors, rafts, balls, tubes, and newspapers. 
Hooper watches one such group: A Family of Ten getting out of a camper-van. He watches in dismay as the family bumbles onto the beach for a day of fun in the sun. 
Brody addresses his troops, such as they are. 
BRODY I want to thank you guys from local agencies for cooperating, and I hope we won't actually be needing your services. But I'm glad to have you here. 
The Men ad lib responses: "Happy to do it," "Any time," "When's lunch?" "I hate holidays," etc. 
ENSIGN I want to get our lines and repellent out, so we better shove off. 
He nods to his men, who head for some Boston Whalers (or similar boat with surf-riding capability) and push off into the surf to patrol the swimming areas. 
BRODY (a last caution) We're all on one channel, so let's keep radio traffic to a minimum, okay? 
Everyone kind of nods acknowledgment. 
HOOPER I hope we get some more help. 
BRODY I wish it would rain... 
EXT. BEACH - AMUSEMENT AREA - CLOSE OF SHARK MACHINE 
In a shed near the bandstand, a half-dozen pinball and arcade machines sucking quarters from holiday beach-goers. A mechanical shark traverses the screen, is hit with an electric harpoon and red "blood" blossoms from its side, indicating a hit. 
Sounds of electronic gadgetry, people having fun. Meadows is there writing it all up for the paper. A move away from the screen of this particular machine reveals the arcade, the parking lot, and, finally, the beginnings of the panorama of the beach that July 4th has created. 
EXT. SOUTH BEACH - THE FOURTH OF JULY 
four foot surfer's swell curls and crashes on shore, riderless. The broad sandy beach is a mosaic of summer color as one thousand vacationers practice fun in the sun, but not in the water. Hot dog stands and ice cream vendors are everywhere. 
ANGLE - LIFEGUARD STATIONS 
A half-dozen lookout lofts. As many handsome lifeguards with Walkie-Talkies strapped to their trunks and loud-hailers at arm's reach. Bored, two of the hot dogs train their binoculars on some local color. 
ANGLE ON TV MOBILE UNIT 
A TV Mobile Unit Van is setting up: cables snaking to cameras, a camera with a big sports zoom sitting on the platform atop the truck, a spiffy announcer-type in a blazer with his station's call letters on the pocket. Inside the darkened control room, we can see the pale blue squares of monitors in a mosaic against one wall, facing the switcher. 
AT SEA 
Hooper is methodically patrolling in his boat. Tactically flanking a three-hundred-yard apron of black repellent are four small watch-boats. A tiny pleasure boat darts around the repellent line. Farther out, crossing back and forth, are patrol boats. To top it all off, a Coast Guard helicopter hovers and patrols three hundred feet above. 
INT. TELEVISION MOBILE UNIT 
At least eight monitors, reflecting the outputs of three cameras and two tape machines, as well as line, preview, and effects monitors. 
MONITOR: CAMERA 1: Holding on a group of happy citizen-bathers as they unpack their gear, wave to camera, run into the water. 
MONITOR: CAMERA 2: The Repellent Line, set in place by Coast Guardsmen in small boats, setting out floats, dumping repellent into the ocean. 
MONITOR: CAMERA 3: Close on the Bandstand, where Amity's band is playing lilting patriotic airs. 
After we've seen this activity, we can take a look at what's going on: the preparation of the tape segment for the six o'clock news. 
TV DIRECTOR Put 1 on the line. In five. 4. 3. 2. 1. Roll. 
On the "Tape 1" and "Line" monitors, we see Vaughn being interviewed by the Announcer in the blazer. 
ANNOUNCER ...and with me is the Mayor of Amity, Lawrence Vaughn. Mr. Vaughn, how about those rumors? 
VAUGHN How about them indeed. I'm pleased and happy to repeat the news that we have, in fact, caught and killed a large predator that supposedly injured some bathers here. As you can see, it's a beautiful day, the beaches are open, and the folks here are having a wonderful time. Amity, y'know, means 'Friendship.' 
MONITOR: CAMERA 1: As Vaughn speaks to us on the monitors, the monitor for Camera 1 pans over to show a Sightseeing Bus pull up in the parking area, and a horde of media vultures spilling out, carrying cameras with long lenses and tripods, telescopes, sunshades and parasols, all the equipment of the curious and none of the equipment of the holiday bather or swimmer. 
TAPE 1 AND LINE MONITORS: Close on the Announcer, Vaughn out of the picture. 
ANNOUNCER Also here today is a Marine Biologist and Research Fellow from the Oceanographic Institute, Matthew Hooper. Mr. Hooper, what've you heard? 
HOOPER What I've heard and what I've seen are two different things. I believe there is a large Great White Shark -- Carcharodon Cacharias - in the waters off this very beach, that he has killed and that he will kill again... 
Hooper's voice fades off as someone at the mixer panel dials his mike off, and brings up the Announcer's lavalier. 
ANNOUNCER (moving into center frame) And there you have it -- two different opinions, by men of good will. The holiday crowd here at Amity seems to be making up its own mind... 
The camera pans off him to a happy family headed for the beach. 
MONITOR: CAMERA 3: Zooms in on the puffing face of the tuba player. 
MONITOR: CAMERA 2: Brody and the Announcer. 
MONITOR: TAPE 1 and LINE: Back on the Announcer, his lips moving, but his sound turned off. We hear, instead, the sound from Monitor Camera 2, Brody and the same Announcer. 
INT. HELICOPTER - AERIAL VIEW 
A breathtaking view. The copter spotter looks down with naked eye and binoculars. 
COPTER SPOTTER Nothing from up here, Daisy. Over. 
CLOSE - HENDRICKS 
HENDRICKS (into walkie-talkie) False alarm. Must be this glare. 
ANGLE - BEACH - CLOSE ON BRODY 
He is walking down the beach, threading his way through the happy hordes. Meadows nods "hello." 
VOICES Who's scared to go in! I was in! Up to your knees, yeah -- So come with me -- I'll go again. 
MEADOWS Beautiful day, Chief! 
A group of youngsters playing with Michael Brody's dinghy. 
They are hauling it toward the surf. 
BRODY Hey Mikey -- ! 
Michael turns as Brody trots toward him. 
BRODY You're not going to the ocean with that, are you son? 
MICHAEL I'm all checked out for light surf and look at it. 
BRODY Do me this favor just once. Use the ponds. 
MICHAEL Dad, the ponds are for old ladies. 
BRODY Just a favor for your old man. 
MICHAEL (confused) Sure, Dad. 
TV CREW - NEAR WATER 
TV cameramen are packing up their gear. For them it's a wrap 
REPELLENT LINE - COUNTY POLICEMAN 
Suddenly his Walkie-Talkie fizzes, and the Copter Spotter's voice overloads the speaker. 
COPTER SPOTTER Copter to Daisy! Red Four, Red Four! 
BOAT #7 - HENDRICKS 
Guns are up, heads turning everywhere. 
HENDRICKS (into walkie-talkie) Where -- ? 
COPTER SPOTTER Went under your -- There! 
The Coast Guard sonar operator spots it and pales. A slick black dorsal fin is slicing a wake toward the swimming area. 
SONAR OPERATOR Jesus Christ -- Shark! 
BEACH - BRODY 
Rigid and choked, he almost breaks the "send" button trying to transmit. 
BRODY Everybody out! Out of the water, please -- leave the water, please -- 
A lifeguard in a loft behind him begins blowing on his whistle. 
CLOSE - BRODY 
shouting hysterically. 
BRODY No whistles! No whistles! 
THE BEACH 
Dozens of bathers halfway out of the water, turn to see. More whistles, and they start toward shore. We hear panicky voices ad-libbing; "Shark," "Look Out," etc. The loudhailers sounding more urgent now, and a contagious dread seizes one person after another. Entire groups of people begin pulling toward shore, some of them obviously trying to control a growing hysteria in others. 
BOATS #6 AND #7 
are converging, heading toward the repellent line as if tracking an underwater shadow. The fin is beyond the repellent cordons and heading into the crowds. 
HOOPER'S BOAT 
QUINT Are you now. I know about porkers in the water -- (throws him some rope) Here. Tie me a sheepshank. 
Hooper ties the knot effortlessly. 
HOOPER I don't need to pass basic seamanship. 
QUINT Let me see your hands... 
He takes Hooper's hands in his own big bloody fists, and feels them as he talks. 
QUINT Ha. City hands. You been counting money. If you had a $5000 net and $2000 worth of fish in it, and along comes Mr. White, and makes it look like a kiddy scissors class has gone to work on it and made paper dolls. If you'd ever worked for a living, you'd know what that means. 
HOOPER Look, I don't need to hear any of this working class hero crap. Some party boat skipper who's killed a few sharks... 
BRODY (interrupting) Hey. Knock it off. I don't want to have to listen to this while we're out there... 
QUINT What do you mean 'We...?' 
BRODY It's my charter. My party. 
QUINT All right, Commissioner. But when we're on my ship, I am Master, Mate and Pilot. And I want him... (indicates Hooper) ...along for ballast. 
BRODY You got it. 
EXT. QUINT'S DOCK - MORNING 
The Mate is loading. He hands Quint the items on his check list as Quint takes them aboard. 
QUINT 5 lengths of 1/2-inch, 20 number 14's, straight gaff, flying gaffs, tail rope, eye splice, M-1, 20 clips, pliers, irons... 
As he talks, we see Hooper coming down to the dock. Wheeling a wagon behind him are two long-haired Research Assistants from the Institute. On the wagon, among other things, is a big shark cage. At dockside, Hooper checks his list, as he signs for his issue. 
HOOPER Powerhead, CO2 darts, hypo, regulator, tanks, depth gauge, camera, extra magazines, cage... 
CLOSE - ON HOOPER AND RESEARCH ASSISTANT 
ASSISTANT You got everything you asked for? 
HOOPER All of it. And thank Dr. Miro for me. And tell Borack I'll catch up with them in New Zealand. 
ASSISTANT This is actually a killing expedition? 
HOOPER An eye for an eye, you know. 
QUINT Hey, Squirt! You want to stow this gear or you want me to use it for ballast? It ain't good for much but bait. 
HOOPER (to Assistant) I'll see ya. Tell Dorothy hello. 
Hooper sees his gear approaching. 
ANGLE ON DOCK AND ORCA 
Quint sees Hooper approaching with the large cage. 
QUINT Hello, Junior. What are you? Some kind of half-assed astronaut? (to himself) Jesus Christ, when I was a kid, every little squirt wanted to be a harpooner or a sword fisherman. What d'ya have there -- a portable shower? 
HOOPER Anti-Shark cage. 
QUINT Who's inside, you or the shark? 
Hooper indicates "me." 
QUINT You're in the cage? (Hooper nods) The cage is in the water? (Hooper nods) The shark is in the water too? (Hooper nods) You're in the water with the shark. 
Hooper nods. Quint sings "Spanish Ladies" half to himself. 
HOOPER Comin' aboard... 
ANGLE ON DOCK, BRODY AND ELLEN APPROACHING 
She's carrying a little plastic shopping bag, he's wearing shiny new foul weather gear, bundled up, sweaty, uncomfortable. 
She gives him as good a hug as she can manage under the circumstances. 
ELLEN Did you take your dramamine? (Brody nods) Here. 
She straightens his coat, and gives him a shaving kit to carry aboard with his toiletries. From the deck, Quint whistles derisively. 
QUINT Hurry up, Chief, daylight's a wastin'. 
ELLEN Is that him? 
BRODY (to Ellen) Colorful, isn't he? 
QUINT Keep that chum line going -- we've got five good miles. Don't break it. 
BRODY Who's driving the boat? 
QUINT Nobody. We're drifting with the current. 
HOOPER (using the fish finder) Nothing. Nothing, nothing, nothing. 
QUINT (to Hooper) Hell, in the old days we went out with good charts, good sounding lead, and a damn good compass. Nowadays, these kids are afraid to go out without depth finders, radar, radio, electric toothbrush, every stupid thing... 
Quint opens a can of beer and drains it in one long pull, crushing the empty and throwing it over the side. Hooper drains his coffee from a styrofoam cup, and cracks it in his hand with a silly "plup." He stows the pieces in an empty chum barrel. 
QUINT (to Brody) Get a fresh barrel. 
Brody goes to unlash a fresh barrel, but can't figure out the knots. He finally tugs on a piece of rope, and it all comes loose... barrel, shark cage, and, most important, Hooper's tanks, clattering and rolling on the deck. 
HOOPER (jumping up) Watch it! Compressed air -- you screw around with one of those and Boom! Careful, huh? 
QUINT (mutters) Real fine stuff but it won't mean a thing to Mr. Whitey, of course... he didn't go to schools in electronics. He was born with what he does best. Eat. He's a swimming appetite. 'Course he might eat this stuff, but then I've seen him eat a rocking chair, too. (to Brody) Next time, ask me. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
LATER 
The men are in different positions on the boat. Hooper on the flying bridge. Quint in the stern, Brody hanging over the rail, puking. 
Quint takes a wide red strip of whale meat and a gnarled squid from the garbage pail, and searches for a No. 2 hook rig. He holds up a strip of whale. 
HOOPER (eyeing bait) That's pilot whale, isn't it? 
QUINT It ain't a Big Mac. (to Brody) The expert don't approve. What do you thing? You're closer to the situation. (laughs) 
Brody shades his eyes from the white sun as Quint baits up. 
BRODY (croaky) Why are we way out here, when the shark's back there? 
QUINT (snapping bait to his leader) ...'cause this is where he lives. You gotta think like they do. 
HOOPER (to himself) Easy for you -- they got a brain the size of a radish. 
Quint sits in the fighting chair. He casts off, murmuring as the line feeds out. 
QUINT (to Brody) Now if he weren't around, we'd of hooked something else by now, wouldn't we? But he scared 'em all away. Big lonesome son of a bitch... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
LATER 
Quint at ease in his chair, Brody near him, practicing tying knots. The line starts to move, a few feet at a time; both men watch. Then the line whizzes off the reel. Brody jumps up. Hooper springs to the deck. Quint puts his hand on the drag and addresses the situation softly. 
QUINT -- he'll gulp it down now... (making gulping noises) Hooooooo! 
Quint tightens drag and strikes. The line goes whizzing out. 
Brody runs to Quint's side. Hooper springs up to the flying bridge. 
BRODY You got it? 
QUINT (turning with the pull) Get behind me, dummy! (shouts to Hooper) Reverse her and turn -- he's taking too much line! (to Brody) Wet my reel, quick! 
Brody goes to get water, the boat surges, he staggers. Brody pours water on the screaming reel, nearly unspooled now. 
Hooper is turning the boat around and the line changes direction. 
QUINT (straining, muscles popping) Starboard, for Chris'sake -- 
Hooper steers it sharply. 
QUINT (to Hooper) Hey, you! Farmer! Half-speed there... 
HOOPER (almost to himself) Aye, Aye SIR. Stand by to repel boarders. Poop the mainsail. Argh, Jim Boy. 
Again the line changes direction, down this time. 
QUINT (to Hooper) Neutral! (to himself) Where the hell is he going? 
Quint reeling in like mad. 
QUINT Oh, this ain't foolin' me -- (rod arcs down with a surge) Sure -- try it! 
He ad libs brief instructions to Brody as the line rushes out and there is less tension. Quint is horsing up and down, reeling in. 
QUINT Makin' believe it's easy now. 
HOOPER 20 feet, if it's an inch... 
QUINT 25 feet. And three tons of him there. 
Hooper is nearly beside himself with a strange ecstasy. He leaps toward his gear. 
QUINT (quietly, to Brody) I never saw one that big. 
BRODY What do we do? Get some help? Radio in? 
Quint ignores him and moves off into the pilot house, where he swiftly takes out his green case, and opens it to begin to assemble something inside it. Brody is alone on the deck with Hooper. 
BRODY How're we gonna handle this? 
Hooper is contained in his own excitement. He has finally come up with what he was looking for -- an expensive Nikon through which he peers intently at the shark alongside. He is talking half to himself as he fine-tunes the range finder and focus. 
He is squeaking and bubbling in an unsuppressed emotional boil. 
HOOPER (very, very high) There's a formula! Girth, about 150 inches, squared, divide by 800 -- son of a bitch, they are not going to believe this! -- divide by 2000... three tons! (after Quint) You're right, you old fart! Three tons! (ad libs ecstasy) 
CLOSE ON QUINT IN THE PILOT HOUSE 
He is assembling the Greener harpoon gun, deftly screwing on the long wooden stock, the heavy steel barrel, and big shaft with the wicked barbs, the frame all rigged with line. Past him, on the deck, we can still see Hooper. As Quint is working with the gun, the radio suddenly squawks into life. 
RADIO VOICE (V.O.) Amity Point Light Station to Orca. This is Amity Point Light Station, to Orca... 
Quint snaps the mouthpiece to his lips. 
QUINT Orca here. 
RADIO VOICE (V.O.) I have Mrs. Martin Brody here... 
QUINT Put her on. 
ELLEN'S VOICE ...push this? Oh. It's working. Hello, Martin? 
QUINT This is Quint, Missus. 
ELLEN'S VOICE I just wanted to know if you were all right... the Coast Guard let me use their radio. Is Chief Brody there? 
QUINT He's busy. 
ELLEN'S VOICE Well... is everything all right? 
QUINT Just fine, Missus. We'll be back soon. Everything's fine. We haven't seen anything yet. Orca out. 
He snaps off the radio, and, for good measure, pulls the plug from the power source. 
ANGLE FROM DECK 
The big shark is slicing through the water just below the surface, its fin high, the big gray back glistening, the teeth gleaming. 
ANGLE - INCLUDING FOREDECK 
HOOPER (on deck) Damn it! I need something in the foreground to give it some scale. Martin! Stand here! No, to your left! 
He is positioning Martin frantically, trying to include Brody, the shark, and the Orca in the same frame. Quint finishes with the gun, and as a final gesture, snaps an explosive cartridge into the breech. He empties the box of cartridges onto the table, snatches up a big handful, and drops them into a pocket, and heads out on deck, bound for the bow pulpit. 
ON DECK 
Quint appears with the harpoon gun. He throws one end of the line to Hooper. 
QUINT Here. Rig this to the forward keg up there. 
He indicates the barrels on the foredeck. 
QUINT (to Brody) Get up there and steer her. Follow my hand, and hold 'er steady. I've got to get a clean shot at that porker's head. 
Quint moves up toward the bow, Brody goes up to the flying bridge to take the wheel, Hooper starts for the foredeck, but stops to rummage in his kit, throwing gear around as he desperately hunts for something. 
QUINT Hurry up, rig the line! 
ANGLE ON HOOPER 
He finds what he's looking for. A small, powerful strobe unit, waterproofed, a miniature signal beacon. He triggers it, and it begins to pulse with a light we can see even in the sun. 
Hooper scampers to the foredeck and begins to rig the light to the first barrel, as the shark begins to surface near the bow. 
QUINT (to Brody) Come to port. Watch my hand. Steady now... 
He guides Brody with hand signals. Brody tries urgently to get it right, not to oversteer, to try to hold the big boat with its throbbing diesels on the course that Quint is indicating. 
QUINT The line, man, the line! 
Quint is amused. He presents his own formidable forearm. 
QUINT Wire burn. Trying to stop a backstay from taking my head off. 
HOOPER (rolling up a sleeve) Moray Eel. Bit right through a wet suit. 
Brody is fascinated. Quint and Hooper take a long pull from the bottle. 
QUINT Face and head scars come from amateur amusements in the bar room. This love line here... (he bends an ear forward) ...that's from some crazy Frenchie come after me with a knife. I caught him with a good right hand right in the snot locker and laid him amongst the sweetpeas. 
HOOPER Ever see one like this? 
He hauls up his pants leg, revealing a wicked white scar. 
HOOPER Bull shark scraped me while I was taking samples... 
QUINT Nothing! A pleasure scar. Look here -- 
He starts rolling up his own dirty pants leg. 
QUINT Slammed with a thresher's tail. Look just like somebody caressed me with a nutmeg grater... 
Brody is drawn into their boasting comparisons. He secretly checks his own appendix scar, decides not to enter the contest. 
HOOPER I'll drink to your leg. 
QUINT And I'll drink to yours. 
They toast each other. Brody looks around, sees the strobe blink once through the darkened window. 
QUINT Wait a minute, young fella. Look. Just look. Don't touch... 
He starts lowering his pants to reveal a place on one hip where the tissue is scarred and irregular. 
QUINT ...Mako. Fell out of the tail rope and onto the deck. You don't get bitten by one of those bastards but twice -- your first and your last. 
HOOPER (considerably drunker) I think I can top that, Mister... 
Hooper is pulling at his shirt, trying to get it off, but it's tangling its sleeves, and won't come undone. 
HOOPER Gimme a hand, here. I got something to show you -- 
Brody lends a hand. The shirt slips part way off. 
HOOPER (indicating his chest) There. Right there. Mary Ellen Moffit broke my heart. Let's drink to Mary Ellen. 
The two men raise their mugs in a toast. 
QUINT And here's to the ladies. And here's to their sisters; I'd rather one Miss than a shipload of Misters. 
He drinks, Hooper follows. 
QUINT (shows belly) Look a' that -- Bayonet Iwo Jima. 
BRODY (aside) C'mon. Middle appendix -- 
QUINT (aside) I almost had 'im. 
Brody is looking at a small white patch on Quint's other forearm. 
BRODY (pointing) What's that one, there? 
QUINT (changing) Tattoo. Had it taken off. 
HOOPER Don't tell me -- 'Death Before Dishonor.' 'Mother.' 'Semper Fi.' Uhhh... 'Don't Tread on Me.' C'mon -- what? 
QUINT 'U.S.S Indianapolis.' 1944. 
BRODY What's that, a ship? 
HOOPER (incredulous) You were on the Indianapolis? In '45? Jesus... 
Quint remembering. 
CLOSE ON QUINT 
QUINT Yeah. The U.S.S. Indianapolis. June 29th, 1945, three and a half minutes past midnight, two torpedoes from a Japanese submarine slammed into our side. Two or three. We was still under sealed orders after deliverin' the bomb...the Hiroshima bomb...we was goin' back across the Pacific from Tinian to Leyte. Damn near eleven hundred men went over the side. The life boats was lashed down so tight to make the bomb run we couldn't cut a single one adrift. Not one. And there was no rafts. None. That vessel sank in twelve minutes. Yes, that's all she took. We didn't see the first shark till we'd been in the water about an hour. A thirteen-footer near enough. A blue. You measure that by judgin' the dorsal to the tail. What we didn't know... of course the Captain knew...I guess some officers knew... was the bomb mission had been so secret, no distress signals was sent. What the men didn't know was that they wouldn't even list us as overdue for a week. Well, I didn't know that -- I wasn't an officer -- just as well perhaps. So some of us were dead already -- in the water -- just hangin' limp in our lifejackets. And several already bleedin'. And the three hundred or so laying on the bottom of the ocean. As the light went, the sharks came crusin'. We formed tight groups -- somewhat like squares in an old battle -- You know what I mean -- so that when one come close, the man nearest would yell and shout and pound the water and sometimes it worked and the fish turned away, but other times that shark would seem to look right at a man -- right into his eyes -- and in spite of all shoutin' and poundin' you'd hear that terrible high screamin' and the ocean would go red, then churn up as they ripped him.  Then we'd reform our little squares. By the first dawn the sharks had taken more than a hundred. Hard for me to count but more than a hundred. I don't know how many sharks. Maybe a thousand. I do know they averaged six men an hour. All kinds -- blues, makos, tigers. All kinds. (Pause) In the middle of the second day, some of us started to go crazy from the thirst. One fella cried out he saw a river, another claimed he saw a waterfall, some started to drink the ocean and choked on it, and some left our little groups -- our little squares -- and swam off alone lookin' for islands and the sharks always took them right away. It was mainly the young fellas that did that -- the older ones stayed where they was. That second day -- my life jacket rubbed me raw and that was more blood in the water. Oh my. On Thursday morning I bumped up against a friend of mine -- Herbie Robinson from Cleveland -- a bosun's mate -- it seemed he was asleep but when I reached over to waken him, he bobbed in the water and I saw his body upend because he'd been bitten in half beneath the waist. Well Chief, so it went on -- bombers high overhead but nobody noticin' us. Yes -- suicides, sharks, and all this goin' crazy and dyin' of thirst. Noon the fifth day, Mr. Hooper, a Lockheed Ventura swung around and came in low. Yes. He did that. Yes, that pilot saw us. And early evenin', a big fat PBY come down out of the sky and began the pickup.  That was when I was most frightened of all -- while I was waitin' for my turn. Just two and a half hours short of five days and five nights when they got to me and took me up. Eleven hundred of us went into that ocean -- three hundred and sixteen got out. Yeah. Nineteen hundred and forty five. June the 29th. (pause) Anyway, we delivered the bomb. 
EXT. OCEAN - NIGHT 
Quint has just finished his story, and we are looking across the quiet night sea to the Orca slowly circling in the night, the warm light in the pilot house barely revealing the figures of the three men inside, the red and green running lights winking along the ship's flanks. We hear the distant boom and drawn-out hoot of a whale. 
INT. ORCA PILOT HOUSE - NIGHT 
Quint runs a line from the gin pole to the roof section. 
Hooper climbs in though the top. 
HOOPER Take me up. 
Brody cranks the winch, hoisting cage and Hooper into the air. Quint balances the gin pole lines, Hooper crouching in the cage, examining it for stresses; satisfied, he holds out his hand. Quint puts the spear gun into it. 
CLOSE ON HOOPER IN THE CAGE 
He examines his weapon, checking the power load, with the big wicked-looking syringe head uncapped to reveal its razor point. 
HOOPER Lower away, Chief. (then, to Quint) Try and keep him off me till I'm under. 
Hooper inside, looking out the bars of the cage, gives Brody a reassuring smile, then pops his mouthpiece between his teeth and checks his regulator. Brody steps back, and with Quint guiding the cage, begins lowering it off the gin pole boom arm into the sea alongside the boat. 
Brody and Hooper stare at each another as their faces pass, Hooper sliding down into the cold grey ocean. 
As Hooper disappears beneath the surface, Quint and Brody exchange a long look between them. 
UNDERWATER - CAGE 
HOOPER'S POINT OF VIEW 
Submerging. The sky, horizon, water line, clean fresh sea air then... the magnificent innerspaces, with bubbles sparkling in front of us. 
ANGLE - HOOPER IN THE CAGE 
as he floats to twenty feet Hooper never stops looking around 360 degrees. He removes the rubber guard from the needle and waits. 
EXT. THE SURFACE - BRODY AND QUINT 
Their turning heads tell us that the barrels are still circling. 
Suddenly, both heads stop turning. 
THE SEA 
The barrels have come to a stop. Delicately, they change course and meander toward the lowered cage. 
UNDERWATER - HOOPER 
His back is to us. He is just now completing a visual sweep and turns, eyes front into closeup and: fixes wildly on something monstrous... and fascinating. 
HOOPER'S POINT OF VIEW 
The water is clear and shafts of sunlight streak downward in the blue. From the deep gloom -- diving slowly, smoothly -- comes the shark. It moves with no apparent effort, sinuous beyond comparison. As it nears the cage, it turns, and its ghastly length passes right in front of him: first the snout, then the jaw, slack and smiling, then the black eye. 
Hooper tentatively reaches out. It is too far for the strychnine pole. The vinyl flesh is pocked with bullet holes, iron scars, gaffing hooks and strange open wounds that tinge the passing currents with pink. 
SURFACE 
The trailing barrels gong and scratch the keel of the Orca above. Brody and Quint leap back. 
HOOPER - CLOSE 
The shark has vanished into a cloud of rising silt. Hooper, expecting the shark to attack out of that same general direction, braces himself, pole extended through the bars, breathing faster, straining his eyes into the gloom and... we see that the shark attacking from behind him. 
The cage is sent careening. Hooper grabs the bars for dear life. The shark has grabbed the steel struts in its brutal jaws, shaking the cage relentlessly from side to side, bending the bars like clothes hangers. Hooper can't turn the pointed end of the pole around, his body jammed as far away from the non-rational attacker as possible. 
Hooper is trapped. 
The shark withdraws to get some running room then charges again. The bleeding snout thrust deeper into the yawing bars, the jaws snapping and twisting, two feet from Hooper's torso, the tail thrusting it forward. Hooper drops the strychnine pole between the bars and it tumbles slowly toward rapture depth. 
All the shark needs is one more good thrust before separating Hooper at the waistline. Through frantic bubbles Hooper fumbles with the overhead hatch cover, kicking up and out of the cage. The shark backpedals with its tail, but the broad head won't shake loose. 
Hooper rushes downwards, after the strychnine pole. 
ANGLE - SHARK 
The shark twists free of the cage and arrows downward after Hooper. 
Hooper nearly recovers the pole. Again it slips from his frightened grasp and this time disappears into a narrow abyss. Hooper turns and looks up. 
The Great White is lunging at him, twenty feet above. 
SURFACE 
One of the barrel ropes snakes around the cage rope and pulls taut. 
HOOPER - DEEP 
Turning to meet the monster which -- though held back for a moment by the snarled rope -- now surges forward. 
