JENNIFER EIGHT 
Written by 
Bruce Robinson 
June 1991 
1:  INT.  COMMUNITY HALL.   DAY. 
The Church of St. Peter Los Angeles. "WHOEVER YOU SEE HERE - WHATEVER YOU HEAR HERE - STAYS HERE." That's a notice on a wall. Here's another notice "NO SMOKING." Everyone is smok- ing. This is an AA meeting. There's a lot of Faces to look at. I don't know when we'll get to the one that's talking, but when we do it's like this. Eyes like glue. 50 years old with a face the color of a snuff-users hanky. He says this: 
BENNY .. after my third recovery my wife made me swear I'd never bring another bottle into the house.  And I never did. I bur- ied it under the lawn.  Cut out a turf & stood it upright with a piece of tin- foil instead of a cork. So here we are out in the yard, and she's happy because I'm getting healthy in a pair of swim- ing shorts & no way near no booze. She decides to prune the roses. Meanwhile, I'm laying there with a straw stuck in- to the fucken lawn doing a quart of red .. 
Curious thing about drunks. Their disease often amuses them. 
That's how crazy I was - I was sick for half a life till I finally found my san- ity again in these rooms. Don't take that drink - And for the one or two new faces I see here, I say this: just do it by the day. You gotta do it by the day - Don't take that drink. And keep coming to these meetings. Because here is where it works .. 
CHAIR Thank you, Benny .. We have a few more minutes .. Anyone else like to share? .. 
Ash into an ashtray and now a face. He's around 40 years old. Intense eyes & dark hair. Probably good looking when the ang- le's right. But this is a bad angle. His name is JOHN BERLIN. 
BERLIN My name's John .. and I'm an alcoholic .. 
ALL Hi, John. 
BERLIN I didn't intend to speak today.  Matter of fact, I wasn't gonna come to the meeting .. But I wanna say a couple of things I hope may be of use, particularly as Benny says, to the new faces here. I first came into this fellowship ten months ago. I came to a meeting I was convinced was gonna be my last - how could a buncha drunks help me? - Then someone got up, I think it was Micky, and described himself as "the shit around which the universe revolved." I don't know if that was original to him - it doesn't matter, it was the first time I'd heard it, and I still can't think of a better way to describe how I felt - We all have our own place in the darkness, and I was in such a mess I could hardly fucken see - I'd lost someone very dear to me - she hadn't died - I had - I don't know whether she left coza the drinking, or whether I drank coz I knew she was gonna leave - either way, the booze won - I replaced her with alcohol & anger - I was angry with her, myself, everyone and everything - Where I was I wanted to be someplace else - any place but here - any moment but now - But here I am, and it is now, and there's a big change about to hap- pen in my life - and I'm going for it coz this time I know I'm not running away - I'm actually two miles into a 600 mile journey, and I feel good about myself going there - So I stopped off to share that with you - and to thank everyone of you, and everyone in this fellowship for letting me walk out of here, free .. 
2:  EXT.  OAKLAND BRIDGE.  SAN FRANCISCO BAY.  DUSK. 
High above the Golden Gate. Too high for specifics. But there is something down there of interest to the Camera. Descending with the Music it seems to isolate a particular car. Too many and too distant to know which it is. But the Camera is follow- ing and already a mile up the 101 Interstate travelling north. 
Maybe via a dissolve. And maybe not. But red and white either way as the headlights are coming on. The Camera is closing on the highway. And a car has definitely been selected. There is nothing much of interest about it. It's a blue Mercedes sedan. 
Mussorgsky will choreograph the pace of these cuts. The first puts the frame directly in front of the car. In a few moments its brights snap up. And Titles continue in a dazzle of light. 
3:  INT.  MERCEDES SEDAN.  101.  DUSK. 
Nobody in the car except BERLIN. And a lot of cigarette smoke. Just time to wedge in a P.O.V. There's an intersection coming up. He hits the indicators and crosses lanes winding his wind- ow down. Takes a last hit at his cigarette and exits the butt. 
4:  EXT.  FREEWAY INTERSECTION.  DUSK. 
An instant of red as the cigarette shatters up the highway. A heavy sky of red and black cloud. The Mercedes turns off head- ing east. This time the Camera doesn't follow. Remains static over the intersection until the tail lights finally disappear. 
5:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  DAWN. 
Bare wooden boards and the sound of singing birds. This house hasn't been lived in for years. No furniture other than a new mattress in the middle of the floor. Still in polythene wraps. 
BERLIN just about awake on top of it. Ten seconds of disorien- tation while he puts this together. A stone fireplace. Stairs leading to what's got to be a tiny room above. With enough ef- fort this place could be charming. But right now it's a wreck. 
6:  INT.  KITCHEN.  HOUSE.  DAWN. 
This kitchen was out of date by 1963. A huge china sink and a fat fridge. But the cooker works and a battered old kettle is already on the gas. T-shirt and instant coffee. BERLIN checks cupboards out. Crockery includes a cup and that'll do for now. 
His lips articulate a silent expletive. The gas has just gone out. Tries to relight it without success. On hands & knees he explores a rubber supply pipe that snakes under the back door. 
7:  EXT.  OPEN END GARAGE AND YARD.  HOUSE.  DAWN. 
In the garage he finds the gas cylinder.  Empty and so is the bastard with it. He drags fingers through hair in frustration. Looks around at the heaps of crap that need clearing out. The view beyond he hardly cares to look at.  But if he does it is as follows.  Clouds massing on the horizon. Fields getting re- ady for rain.  His nearest neighbor is around 200 yards away. His nearest Cow about 50. This house is remote and rural look- ing with a veranda out back. But BERLIN has no inclination for sight-seeing. As he walks away a dreary female Voice seeps in. 
8:  INT.  LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN.  HOUSE.  DAWN. 
The Voice comes via a police scanner. Most of this dialogue's bullshit. Illegally parked autos and a few drunks still about. BERLIN sits on the mattress eating a breakfast of chewing gum and milk. He unwraps another Juicy Fruit and regrets it. Goes round his mouth like a shoe in a washing machine. A reluctant decision is taken. Spits gum at the sink as he arrives in the kitchen. Starts unloading his leather bag. A flotsam of stuff is excavated including a 9mm Beretta and a pack of cigarettes. 
He lights up and takes a cruel hit full of nicotine and guilt. Wouldn't need a clairvoyant to realize he's trying to give up. Something on the scanner interests him and he wanders back to the living room. There's a call going out for "David 72 Sam 3." David 72 acknowledges and BERLIN clearly recognizes the voice. 
"We have a 927D/ Springfield Street/ City Dump." But David 72 is already hired. "I'm outside Emersons/ I wanna be the first horrible face of her day." BERLIN exhales through a smile. The Controller needs an E.T.A. for the 927? David 72 doesn't know. Advises her to roll a couple of cars and "Secure the location." 
9:  EXT.  HILLSIDE.  SPRINGFIELD STREET.  EUREKA.  DAY. 
A Chevrolet zig-zags up a shabby canyon. It's the road to the city dump. Its final bend reveals a line of bellowing garbage trucks. Everything is backed up. Nothing moves except the car. The cause of the hold-up is explained at the top. A Sheriff's car blocks the road. A Uniform moves to wave the Chevrolet in. 
10:  EXT.  ENTRANCE/TRACK/INFILL.  CITY DUMP.  EUREKA.  DAY. 
The car parks at a weigh-house and a man in his 50's gets out. Looks like he hasn't slept in a while. And got the mood to go with it. Sports jacket and cowboy boots. A lot of laugh lines around the eyes. But you wouldn't want to get arrested by him. And especially not this morning. His name is FREDERICK T ROSS. 
TRAVIS You can drive down there, Sir .. 
ROSS I'm already walking. Where is it? 
One of those walking with him is a 10-year-old Kid with a Dog. TRAVIS looks almost too young to own his struggling moustache. 
TRAVIS On the infill. The guy from L.A.'s just gone down there .. 
ROSS He has? .. What's he doing here? 
TRAVIS He was waiting for you, Sir. Wait- ed a good while. Said he'd go down and take a look. I hope that's O.K. 
The track sinks through a valley of a million discarded tires. 
ROSS Damn A, it's O.K. With a bit of luck I'm goin home. What we got? 
He picks up a nicotine-stained left hand. Simultaneously a LAB TECHNICIAN wants BERLIN to sign in exchange for the picnic box. 
PATHOLOGIST I guess he was so drunk, he did- n't know which hand he was using. (Re box) What are you gonna do with it? 
BERLIN Depends how healthy it is. If it's any good, I'll try and get a print .. 
He hands the clip-board back and remembers a question for ROSS. 
Oh, Ross, that newspaper guy at the station, asked me if the hand was "frozen?" Why would he ask me that? 
ROSS Frozen? .. I've no idea .. 
Another fast fix on the Vic and BERLIN chews fresh gum. A need- le on a weighing machine quivers. "The liver weighs 1420 grams." 
A few beers wouldn't do that to you, would they? 
PATHOLOGIST No, Freddy .. Not a few .. 
17:  INT.  KITCHEN.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  EUREKA.  DUSK. 
An explosion of hugs in the kitchen. Everything happens at once. MARGIE ROSS is slim and dark and still looking "twice as pretty." She's got compliments for BERLIN too if they can get out of each- other's arms "You're looking wonderful, John." But greetings are better performed than described, so I'm leaving it to the actors. 
ROSS You do a rush on three pizzas? 
He emerges from the refrigerator wielding a bottle of champagne. 
MARGIE I'm not giving him Pizza. I haven't seem him for a year? I'm gonna cook him a dinner. 
ROSS Dinner's another night, darlin .. This is a drive-by. I got an hour .. 
He detours via the kitchen door to shout upstairs. "Hey. Bobby.?" 
MARGIE Bobby's out .. What's the hurry? 
ROSS Friday night at City Hall. Got a great chance to frighten the fat. 
MARGIE Freddy's new obsession .. 
BERLIN Who is who? 
ROSS A professional, whining, con-person bitch with an ass the size of Africa .. 
ROSS fights a difficult cork "You wanna get some glasses, Honey?" 
She's an accounts-manager, very pal- ly with our mayor, up to her elbows in fraud, and I just can't prove it .. 
MARGIE So tonight she confesses? 
ROSS Tonight I'm feeling lucky .. 
The cork explodes and he goes for glasses but one isn't willing. 
BERLIN Not for me .. 
ROSS What d'you mean, I just opened it for you? This is French champagne. 
MARGIE No it isn't .. It's Californian .. 
ROSS Even better. 
BERLIN Not today .. I'm on a diet to- day .. I'll take a diet soda .. 
ROSS Since when did you drink diet soda? 
MARGIE Stop nagging him.  If he doesn't want it, he doesn't want it. You- 're quacking like an old duck .. 
And she's already at the fridge and popping a can of diet cola. 
Here you go, Honey .. You're looking wonderful, John .. I can't believe we got you here .. 
ROSS How's the new residence? 
BERLIN O.K. 
ROSS What does that mean? 
BERLIN Not too good in daylight .. 
ROSS C'mon, just shut your eyes until it's painted.  You're gonna love it. This is "God's Country," John. 
18:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
This in huge close-up. Focus hardens on a finger tip. A shock of light. The focus adjusts and a flash bulb fires again. BER- LIN moves away from the view-finder. Chewing gum stuck to the side of the camera returns to his mouth. He activates an auto- matic rewind. It fills the silence while he heads for a phone. 
A lot of paraphernalia and technical type of shit. The bullet- in board is filling up. Photographs chronicle the hours spent on the dump. He dials with eyes on the pictures. A dozen cata- logue discovery of the bra. "This is Mike Blattis/I can't take your call right now/ If you have a message/You know the sound." 
19:  INT.  DUTY ROOM/CORRIDOR/ADMIN.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT. 
A reel to reel tape recorder the size of a refrigerator domin- ates the room. A black board details day/night/weekend shifts. T.V. security monitors. A rack of night-sticks. And of course paperwork. VENABLES crouches over a desk filling something in. 
BERLIN Would you drop these off for me? 
Rain beats at the roof and the jack sinks the wagon behind them. 
She's blind, Ross - that's why all the scars - hear that traffic light? That noise is to help blind people - that's why the marks on her finger- tips? - this lady reads in Braille .. 
27:  INT.  ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
BERLIN sits at a desk at the end of the room. Nothing here but a legal pad and a phone. The pad is covered in names & numbers. Right now he's into a call and this is sounding promising."How old?" And he writes 26. "How long?" About 6 weeks ago. Hope in his eyes as he looks across to a woman called ANN. She's doing what he's doing on a different line "Wait a minute, I specific- ally said I was looking for a girl?" And all hope over because Lesley is a boy. But here comes ANN & this might be something? 
ANN Shasta-Trinity Institute. Line one. 
Sticks a sheet of notes on his desk and he junks the last call. 
BERLIN (New call) Hello .. Yes .. This is Sergeant Berlin .. Yes, that's right .. I believe my assistant explained? .. How long ago was that? .. Uh-huh. O.K. .. Who is who? .. Whass his name? Goodridge? O.K. I'll hold .. 
ROSS in transit grinning from ear to ear. BERLIN interested in little but his notes and ROSS in nothing but obvious good news. 
ROSS Pig Woman agreed to take a test. 
BERLIN I think I got something - twenty two years old, dark hair - study- ing mathematics - (Yes, yes, I'm holding) - Last seen 5 weeks ago .. 
28:  EXT.  LANDSCAPE/ROAD.  TRINITY FOREST.  DAY. 
Mussorgsky is back on a shock cut. Big music and a shattering landscape. Juniper woods and mountains. Sunlight on fresh fal- len snow. Somewhere a long way off a car crawls up the valley. 
Ross's car bursts into frame and as quickly the bend snatches it away. An unexpected building in the distance. Victorian at a glance but probably later. A clock tower and fifty lifeless windows. The Chevy disappears towards its somber architecture. 
29:  EXT.  THE SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
Pine trees and slush and parked cars. The Chevrolet swings in and parks in front of the mansion. Breath in the air and eyes on the ugly pile as they slam doors and head for its entrance. 
30:  INT.  ENTRANCE/RECEPTION.  INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
BERLIN first with ROSS following. As soon as they hit the ent- rance they trigger a recorded voice. "YOU ARE NOW AT THE MAIN ENTRANCE. THERE ARE SIX STEPS." Midway up them with ROSS look- ing back. "RECEPTION IS THROUGH SWING DOORS AND TO YOUR RIGHT." 
31:  INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICER.  INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
GOODRIDGE is mid-50's with a beard like Abraham Lincoln. Sits far side of his desk alternating eyes between ROSS and BERLIN. The latter studies a photograph of a Girl in a file. It's pos- sible they've found Jennifer Two? "How recent is the picture?" 
GOODRIDGE As recent as we have .. What ex- actly is your interest in Amber? 
BERLIN I'm afraid I can't give you an ans- wer to that, Mr Goodridge. As I ex- plained to your secretary, we're do- ing a lotta looking, but we're not even sure it's her we're lookin for .. 
GOODRIDGE Then what are you hoping I'm gon- na do? Dissuade, or persuade you? 
BERLIN I was hopin since we spoke that you might have remembered something that would give us an idea where she is? 
GOODRIDGE Then you could have saved yourself a lot of driving, Sergeant. What I said on the phone's the same as I'm saying now. I got no idea where Amb- er is, or who it was took her there. 
He doesn't like them but not as much as ROSS doesn't like him. 
ROSS A blind girl can just walk out of here, and you don't know who with? 
GOODRIDGE You find something curious in that? 
ROSS Yeah, I guess I do. 
GOODRIDGE Then let me put your mind at ease .. Firstly, Amber isn't "blind" - she has some useful vision - and second, this isn't a prison, it's a college of higher education - a severe vis- ual disability doesn't mean my stud- ents don't value their independence as much as anybody else - and Amber was a very independent young woman - She decided to leave - so she left .. 
ROSS And you got no idea with who? 
GOODRIDGE No, Sergeant, I got no idea with who. And I might add, that in another six weeks, a hundred and fifty students will be leaving here, & driving away for their Christmas holidays with pe- ople whose name I-won't-know-either .. 
ROSS could sock him in the crop but the phone rings and he ex- cuses himself to answer it. Whatever he hears he isn't liking. 
You have an appointment with Miss Robertson? 
BERLIN Yes, Sir. 
GOODRIDGE As she's a member of my staff, may I ask what this is about? 
BERLIN Well, apparently, she saw Amber the weekend she left, & was briefly in the room with the guy she left with. 
GOODRIDGE I see .. Well, she's teaching an- other class at four .. I'd apprec- iate it if you don't detain her .. 
32:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
Looking back down a deserted corridor. Someone tried to put sun- shine on the walls with yellow paint. Somewhere a long way away there is a sound like children singing. ROSS loathes this joint. Loathes its silence. Eyes back to BERLIN as he rings a doorbell. 
ROSS Where is everyone? 
BERLIN I dunno .. I guess this is staff side of the building? 
Here come footsteps and the door is opened by HELENA ROBERTSON. Early 20's and blonde and not immediately beautiful. But delic- ate features than need no make up and big dark eyes. They look away for introductions as though she's shy. ROSS & BERLIN grab glances as they follow in. Neither expected HELENA to be blind. 
33:  INT.  APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
Claustrophobia evaporates instantly. Great views down the val- ley from every window. Plus a bizarre jumble of furniture and colors. But no pictures on the walls. No friendly photographs. Nor any lights. Although the afternoon is shutting down there isn't a light in the room. ROSS elects to stay at the windows. BERLIN takes an offered chair. HELENA sits nervously opposite. 
HELENA What d'you wanna ask, Mr Ross? 
BERLIN I'm Mr Berlin.  Mr Ross is right here. And Mr Ross is maybe gonna take a few notes, if that's O.K.? (She nods) O.K. .. I'd like you to tell me in what ever way you want, what you can remember about the time you spent with Amber on the aft- ernoon she left? Take your time, and nothing's too trivial, O.K. 
BERLIN Lotta scratch-marks on your door? 
HELENA Sometimes I look after friends dogs, if they go to dances, or something? 
ROSS Could I just refer you to this memo here, Sergeant? 
He tries to get his notebook under BERLIN's nose.  But BERLIN isn't looking or listening but following HELENA into her hall. 
BERLIN Did Amber have a dog? 
HELENA Yes. 
BERLIN What color was it? 
HELENA I don't know. 
She opens the door and ROSS is barely through before it slams. 
34:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
ROSS baits BERLIN up the corridor. Ridicules in silence while counting imaginary winnings. Watch my lips! F.I.F.T.Y. HELENA walks innocent of the pantomime and BERLIN tries to ignore it. 
BERLIN .. if she writes, or calls, or any- thing at all, you let me know, O.K. 
He bells the elevator refusing to acknowledge ROSS's bullshit. 
I'll leave a number with the office .. 
Lips drill a whisper into his ear. "Fifty fucken dollars, O.K." 
What exactly do you teach, Helena? 
HELENA Music composition .. and cello .. 
ROSS Fifty of em. And I want em now. 
Meanwhile the elevator arrives triggering a Voice. "YOU ARE NOW ON THE FOURTH FLOOR." Doors slide open and Christ look at this? What kind of eye-defect needs glasses like this? Lenses like ei- ther half of a glass ball.  He's early 30's and decidedly "iffy." Is he student/staff or what? As he exits they enter staring aft- er him. As the doors close the MYOPIC turns to stare after them. 
35:  INT.  CHEVROLET.  TRINITY VALLEY.  DUSK. 
ROSS drives and BERLIN studies Amber's file. "Wanna beer?" No answer but cans appear anyway from a pack between Ross's legs. 
BERLIN Had a seeing Eye Dog since she was eighteen .. didn't I tell you those dogs meant something .. 
ROSS No, you didn't. 
BERLIN Alright, I didn't, but I nearly did, and if I had I'd have been right .. I knew there was some- thing about that Labrador, that dog was too good to be dead .. We gotta get back up that dump .. 
ROSS No way .. not me, Mister. I'm not going up there again. Might find someone's prick in a hot-dog roll. 
BERLIN We're going. 
ROSS Forget it. They got stringent hyg- iene rules. He's long gone in lime. 
ROSS pops cans and hands one over. But BERLIN doesn't want it. 
BERLIN Maybe not? I'm feeling lucky .. 
ROSS So am I. But where's my money? 
BERLIN Don't start again. If you win a bet, you can't keep winning it .. 
ROSS Pay me, and I shut up. 
BERLIN I haven't got it. 
ROSS Then give me that Zippo. 
BERLIN Why? 
ROSS I need some security. I don't trust you anymore. 
BERLIN I had one puff on a pipe. 
ROSS I don't want excuses, I want that weird-looking stuff called "cash." 
Snaps fingers "Gimme the lighter." And he does to shut him up. 
I'll tell you what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna do you a big favor .. Forget the 50 and I'll keep this. 
BERLIN What do you want it for? 
ROSS To throw out of the window. 
Does it as he says it. Bye-bye Zippo! BERLIN can't believe it. 
BERLIN What are you doing, Ross? I've had that 15 years! .. 
ROSS It's not your friend. It keeps you sucking. Remem- ber the old Bum's lungs? 
BERLIN I remember the old bastard's liver! I don't believe you did that. I had a great sent- imental attachment to that. 
41:  EXT.  TRINITY VALLEY.  DAY.  (HELICOPTER) 
The Mercedes and Music travel north. The latter made sinister by this landscape. Forest plunging into dark ravines. The sun colors the mountains red. But most of the valley is in shadow. 
42:  EXT.  DRIVE/PARKING.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
A high wind in the chimneys. And the view is still from above. Like someone's looking down from the top of the building. And maybe someone is? BERLIN parks it and gets out. Stretches and walks towards the institute. He looks very small from up here. 
43:  INT.  GYMNASIUM.  INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
HELENA plays Elgar in an empty gymnasium. Sunlight streams in staining the air red. As BERLIN arrives doors on the opposite wall flap together like somebody just hurried out. Did he see someone? Perhaps not. The trees outside move a lot of shadows. 
Music stands. Vacant chairs. BERLIN takes one to watch her re- hearse. Realizes just how beautiful she is. And HELENA realiz- es someone is there. Before she can ask he identifies himself. 
HELENA Have you been here long? 
BERLIN No, just a minute or two .. I knocked on your door - no one home, so I followed the music .. 
HELENA I'm sorry. I'll get my things. 
BERLIN No problem. I'm not in a hurry. 
But she's already fussing about stuffing sheet music in a bag. 
Matter of fact, I saw a little restaurant place down the road. Looked kinda pretty? I thought maybe we could have some lunch? 
No answer but the answer is no. BERLIN finds her book for her. 
Alright, whatever .. Was some- one in here with you? When I came in the door was flapping? 
HELENA I don't think so .. No one comes here at the weekends .. 
44:  INT.  STAIRCASE.  INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
The gale shouts its head off. The Camera looks down from above. Nothing to see except the stairwell and a hand on the banister. 
HELENA (O.S.) I suppose I'm the worst witness you've ever had? 
BERLIN (O.S.) I gotta admit, you're one of them. Just wish I knew what you meant by a "hollow car?" 
HELENA (O.S.) Well, some cars sound fat and some cars sound thin, and this kind of car sounded "hollow" .. 
Any moment now they turn a corner of the stairs into close-up. 
Maybe it was a foreign car? Our kinda cars sound "fat." 
The elevator is parked on this floor with its doors half open. 
Are you sure you wanna see it? It's another three floors up? 
Despite breathlessness he does. "How often does it break down?" 
Oh, all the time. They keep threatening to have it re- placed, but they never will. 
45:  INT.  ATTIC APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
Gloomy windows and a wardrobe. BERLIN walks in leaving HELENA at the door. "I sat right there, on the bed." The bed is gone but why tell her? He checks the wardrobe. Guess what? Hangers. 
HELENA If I came to the diner with you, would you bring me back? 
BERLIN Of course I would .. 
His smile deteriorates as he realizes she's "staring" at him. 
What are you staring at, Hel- ena? .. I mean .. I'm sorry .. 
HELENA That's alright. You suddenly reminded me of him .. He was standing right where you are, kind of breathless, like you. 
Nothing happening except the wind. Then a smile as she leaves. 
I'll get my coat, wait for you downstairs .. 
And he begins an exploration. Musty bathroom with old-fashion- ed fixtures. A tap leaking behind shower curtains. Nothing in the cabinet. Nothing under the sink. Six steps and he is in a kitchen. Finally finds something worth looking for. Tears the sack out of a vacuum cleaner. Discovers a knot of hair from a black dog. Simultaneously the door slams. Shock powers him in- to the sitting room in time to hear a key turning in the lock. Hits the door and shouts. Hears footsteps moving rapidly away. 
46:  INT.  RECEPTION.  INSTITUTE.  DAY. 
A huge Christmas poster advertises SHASTA-TRINITY ARTS/CRAFTS. HELENA sits in the deserted foyer reading Braille. The volume is the size of a phone directory. BERLIN appears via the main entrance. Windswept and wasted and surprised she's still here. 
BERLIN I'm sorry, someone slammed the door on me. I couldn't get out. 
HELENA It was probably the wind. 
Hellava wind that turns a key! But he says nothing. Takes the book while she gets into her coat. She's obviously made an ef- fort. A change of clothes and her hair pinned up. But she has got the sweater on inside out and the label is under her chin. 
BERLIN What are you reading? 
HELENA Hamlet. Have you read it? 
BERLIN No. 
HELENA You should. It's wonderful. 
51:  INT.  "STUDIO"/CONSERVATORY.  HOUSE.  DAY. 
Dozens of repulsive paintings.  A truly repulsive painting "By Numbers" of the Mona Lisa in progress. The color codes are com- pletely fucked up. CITRINE wears a wooly hat and hates walking on crutches. BERLIN picked a bad day to come in here with this. 
CITRINE You're pushing this too hard. It's like you want me to say stop? You must know that's the way this is going, John? There's other work to do, why don't ya ease off a little? 
BERLIN Coz this is a major & we're closer to this bastard than anyone's ever been. 
CITRINE Then where's the body? .. Where's the body, and why's he hidden it? 
BERLIN He hasn't hidden it. He never made a hit this far north before, and he never read a weather forecast .. She's probably fifteen feet from the highway, three feet under snow. 
CITRINE Have you got a match on the bullet? 
BERLIN No. 
CITRINE Have you got a print from the hand? 
BERLIN No, Sir. 
CITRINE It could be anyone's hand. Illeg- ally disposed of hospital debris .. 
BERLIN It's her hand. Her scars. Her dog. Her dog's shot. And she's missing. 
CITRINE She's not "missing." Did she shout? Did she scream? Did he coerce her? No. She left of her own free will .. And if she gets on a plane and goes to Peru with the prick, she's still not missing. You got no case, John. 
BERLIN If you're not gonna hear me, Chief .. 
CITRINE I have heard you. You just don't like hearing me. You got this whole damned thing outta proportion. I don't know what you gotten used to in Los Angeles, but I don't believe there's a Police Chief, in this country, would put a task force together for a body part .. 
BERLIN We have a multiple homicide, Sir .. 
CITRINE We have a body part in suspicious circumstances - a tailor's dummy wearing a brassiere - and a bill for seventeen dollars for its wig! 
52:  INT.  CORRIDOR/ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
BERLIN arrives at the station in the same mood he left Citrine. Heads for his room and runs into ROSS's stare. Problems on his plate too. He sits at his desk looking uncharacteristically an- xious. What ever he's drinking isn't tea. He finds a bottle of J&B in a drawer and walks toward Berlin's freshly slammed door. 
52:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
The lab is stuffed with junk waiting his attention. (Dozens of common things made sinister by their labels and plastic sacks). ROSS delivers a dose of Scotch in a plastic cup. Pours himself another. Leans on a bench and gets into the pissed-off silence. 
ROSS Did he shut you down? 
BERLIN All but .. How you doing? 
ROSS I dunno, I daren't go in there - just about get her wired up, and the fucking mayor walks in - mad as hell - what are we doing fuck- ing with his staff? We should be out chasing major violators .. 
BERLIN I wish he'd tell that to Citrine. 
He almost does the whiskey but reaches for chewing gum instead. 
He thinks the kid shot the dog .. 
He looks at ROSS like what-are-you-looking-at-me-like-that-for? 
He didn't. 
ROSS Did I say he did? 
BERLIN You looked like you did? 
ROSS No, I think you'll find I looked like he could have? By accident even? He's up here spraying the scenery all day. 
BERLIN He didn't shoot it, Ross. And no way by accident. There's a flash-burn. It was point-blank. 
SERATO walks in with a cigarette plugged into his ashen kisser. 
SERATO Flying colors ... 
ROSS Say you didn't say that, Angelo? 
SERATO I said it. 
ROSS Oh my God Mother's shit. Are we in it? 
54:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/INTERROGATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
This room and the interrogation room are linked with a one-way mirror. BERLIN looks through munching gum. EMERSON is 25 years old and many pounds of vexed flesh. But something about her ex- pression expects apology. SERATO paces the place chain-smoking. ROSS listens devastated as the EXPERT explains his lousy chart. 
EXPERT This is the important one. She gets a dead straight line, and that's an exceptional reading .. 
SERATO .. this is the stupidest thing we ever done. Fucking Citrine's gonna fire one of us for this .. 
ROSS I can't believe it. I just know she someway busted it. 
EXPERT This is an honest girl. She couldn't lie if she tried .. 
BERLIN Is she lying, Ross? 
For a moment there is an intense trust between ROSS and BERLIN. 
The joke doesn't reach BERLIN. MARGIE's hand is on his shoulder. 
MARGIE Her loss, darlin .. 
And she heads for the lower deck. A sweet smile as she descends. 
Anyway, you're doing O. K. She's a sweet heart. 
And also playing the guitar "In My Life." And she does it well. 
ROSS Why's she blind, Bro? 
BERLIN Car accident. 
Slow banging of something swaying. And this exchange goes slow. 
Whole family wiped out. 
ROSS No shit. 
A bleeper goes on one of the lines and ROSS twists in his seat. 
Strap me in. Here comes another. 
And he winds in yet another three quarters of a pound Mackerel. 
Worst day's fishing I ever had .. 
BERLIN It's been a great day. 
ROSS dexterously extracts the hook with serious eyes on BERLIN. 
ROSS You just go easy, Brother ... (Looks at fish) Alright, we're all goin home. 
59:  EXT.  CAR PARK AT BEACH.  DUSK. 
Darkness in about an hour. Wide over the car park. Sand dunes surround it. Practically deserted of cars. Headlights snap on focusing attention on a station wagon exchange of good-byes. 
HELENA (V.O.) I really liked Margie .. 
Silhouettes with exaggerated shadows walk across the car park. 
What does she do? 
BERLIN (V.O.) She runs a kind of hair dress- ing and you know, beauty salon .. 
HELENA (V.O.) Have you known her long? 
BERLIN (V.O.) I was married to her sister .. 
The angle changes and is closer now. HELENA has taken his arm. 
You don't ask what I'm like? 
HELENA I know what you're like .. 
BERLIN How d'you know what I'm like? 
HELENA Ross told me. 
BERLIN Really? What did he say? 
HELENA He said you're quite chubby. And you have a nervous tick. 
BERLIN He said that? What else did he say? 
HELENA Just your age. 
BERLIN Which is what? 
HELENA Fifty-seven .. I don't mind .. 
BERLIN is more amused than annoyed. They arrive at the car and his suggestion is met with an appropriate response from HELENA. 
BERLIN You wanna drive? C'mon we're in a car park, miles from any- where .. There's nothing arou- nd but nothing and sand dunes .. 
"I can't drive a car." Doesn't like cars. But he's not hearing. 
C'mon it'll be fun. You can drive me around in circles .. 
No lady ever had a driving lesson like this before. BERLIN all but sits in her seat. Arm on the back of it. Hand on the wheel. For a split second they're doing 60. Now they're doing about 4. 
The Mercedes spirals in widening circles. Instructions and enc- ouragement from BERLIN .. O.K. .. Straight now .. The Mercedes straightens and heads through the dunes. "It's a big car park?" 
We're going along a little track. 
HELENA may like driving but she doesn't like the sound of that. 
It's O.K. It's not a public road. 
Headlights behind them approach quickly. Disappear and reappear as they follow the geography of the dunes. BERLIN only now bec- omes aware of them. one more dip and they slam in. Her anxiety is misinterpreted. He takes the wheel. No problem. Let him pass. The vehicle is right up behind them. As it overtakes HELENA is scared. And still scared even though BERLIN has stopped the car. 
ROSS Hey, we're not talking "talk" tonight. 
TAYLOR No one's gonna make that Gent. Six months investigation, & the nearest we got, we thought he was a sailor. 
BERLIN A sailor? 
By now TAYLOR is moving through the crush of faces behind them. 
TAYLOR Yeah, in and outta Frisco on the big boats .. Every lead we had went right out to sea .. Night, night, Freddy T .. John .. 
BERLIN How come he's suddenly so forth- coming? I'd like to kick him right in the ass. If he'd discussed it with me, I mighta gotten somewhere .. 
ROSS Stop it. 
BERLIN I never knew about the sailor the- ory, Ross. He might have that one little thing I need in his files? 
ROSS John, stop it. The case is on its ass, you're closed. (Reaches for a menu.) C'mon, let it go for once .. Have a drink. C'mon, relax, drink your beer .. 
And just that one moment of insanity as BERLIN downs it in one. 
Alright .. Let's have some wine .. 
64:  INT.  BOOTH.  "ANGELA'S BAR."  NIGHT. 
A shabby booth with black and whites of the two unrecognizable Celebrities who ate here. Hamburgers are almost over and a bot- tle of wine almost drunk. Both look tanked and especially ROSS. 
ROSS You gotta stop calling Los Angeles .. You're dragging L.A. around with you like an addiction.  Look at the shit you're putting yourself through? For what? For nothing, I know it, I been there. Remember me? Up to my asshole in anger, living off the vitamins in cigarettes?  If there's a body under the snow, fuck it. Let somebody else worry about it. You gotta accept you stopped living in that world, & try and give yourself a break in this .. 
BERLIN Just makes to so God damned mad .. 
ROSS You're a fucking great policeman, but give yourself a break. You're here 5 minutes, you find yourself a fucking homicide? .. Not many people could do that in a place like this .. And you gotta admit, there's a lot of shaky areas in this case? .. I mean, stop me if I'm going up the wrong nostril .. 
Waving his empty at the bar ROSS communicates need for another. 
How d'you know this girl isn't lying to you .. Not lying as such, but mak- ing up stuff to keep you coming back? 
BERLIN She wasn't lying about the van. 
ROSS Alright, she wasn't lying about the van. But it could have been any van? Any little foreign diesel? .. She's blind, Bro .. It's sad .. She's pro- bably lonely, and you're a nice guy to have around .. But you're getting far too far into the element, Brother .. 
BERLIN Sure. 
ROSS You don't need me to tell you what hap- pens when you get emotionally involved? 
BERLIN Alright, enough, Ross. You'll bring on my "Nervous Tick" ... 
65:  INT.  ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT. 
Very late and the only light comes from coloured bulbs pulsing on a Christmas tree. Apparent BERLIN has had too much to drink. Makes it to his desk and shuffles at the messages. One is just about important enough to get a close-up. "TIME 18:52: SUBJECT: A MAN CALLED DAN STANLEY TELEPHONED:  SAYS THERE ARE 109 JOHNS WITH VOLKSWAGEN VANS IN BAY AREA: WILL TELETYPE INFO THIS P.M." 
66:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT. 
BERLIN finishes typing something. Tears it out and seals it in an envelope. Shirt sleeves and yawns. He slumps in the chair & stares at "Jennifer 8." Fuck this for a Friday night. He's had enough of it. Grabs several envelopes and turns out the lights. 
67:  INT.  ADMIN/OFFICE.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT. 
BERLIN emerges from one office and heads for another. J.K. Tay- lor on the door. Delivers the envelope and an his way out when something detains him. Lights on the tree strobe through venit- ian blinds. Illuminate bits and pieces of rattan. Plus a board covered in Christmas cards and a pair of steel filing cabinets. 
Maybe motivated by the booze? But a desk drawer is open almost before he realizes it and he searches for a key. Nothing but a bunch of business cards and family snaps. Taylor with his Moth- er Taylor with his Sister (red hair like him) and Taylor with his Dog. The drawer slams and one underneath opens.  Same flot- sam of personal junk. Scotch Tape and paper clips and more bus- iness cards. A bottle of tablets and salad of loose ammo. Fuck all else and he closes the drawer. But what's this? A cane let- ter rack at the rear of the desk where he finds a pair of keys. 
Excitement lasts as long as it takes to try them. Don't fit ei- ther lock. Now he's staring at the shadows with nothing moving but thoughts. A few moments more and he's heading for the door. 
68:  INT.  OFFICE.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT. 
Massive close-up of the lock. A weird looking tool goes in and another follows it. This bastard ain't easy even for an expert. The frame widens to reveal BERLIN. He shuffles picks in a wall- et on top of the cabinet. Was that a noise somewhere? He stops to listen. wipes cold sweat away. Only thieves and foxes about. 
A final twist and the lock delivers. Several dozen manilla col- ored files from which to choose. A pair of folders titled Jenn- ifer travel to the desk. The first is full of press-cuttings & some gruesome looking snaps. Next file and this one looks more interesting? A notebook full of random questions/answers/comm- ents. A list of ships and sailing times. "MUST FOLLOW THIS UP" 
Underlined twice. "CAN'T OVER ESTIMATE IMPORTANCE." Also under- lined. Lists of numbers. Street numbers? Vehicle numbers? What- ever they might be is history because the neon just flashed on. TAYLOR stands in the doorway. The surprise is mutual. The play one-sided. This is already TAYLOR's game. Smokes his cigarette. BERLIN is up to elbows in the jam jar and up to him to explain. 
BERLIN .. feel like I'm getting close to this guy .. and all the time, feel like I'm sharpening a pencil with a broken load .. I'm sorry, King J .. 
TAYLOR What are you looking for? 
BERLIN Vehicle references. 
TAYLOR Wrong cabinet. 
He gestures to the right one. BERLIN feels about 2 inches tall. 
I'm gonna get some coffee. When you finish in here, maybe you'll let me know? .. I got a report to type up .. 
As he exits he tosses a bunch of keys. They crash uselessly on- to the desk. BERLIN looks like he couldn't get a fuck with mud. 
69:  EXT.  ROAD.  TRINITY VALLEY.  DAY. 
The mood is low as it goes. And so is the angle. Ultra low beh- ind the car. Just road and a blur of tires. The frame widens & the Mercedes fills it. Brake lights on as it descends the hill. 
70:  INT.  TRINITY VALLEY/ROAD.  DAY. 
BERLIN in big close-up. His face like the Music. Here come the gates of the Institute. As he turns in he stamps the brakes. A van veers past him. Nothing special about it except it's a V.W. He watches it vanish up the hill with other things on his mind. 
HELENA unzips her skirt. Slides it down her lags. Drapes it on a chair. Removes her shirt and hangs it on the back. She wears a white brassiere and panties. And no apologies for repetition. This is a fantastic body. She checks water temperature. Either too hot or too cold. Either way a tap goes on. Now she reaches behind her back. Unclips her bra. Gets hit with dazzling light. 
The Intruder is taking photographs. And if this is his turn-on he's in paradise. She stands in front of him in total oblivion. Her panties join clothes on the chair. Nov she's naked and now another picture. Again the bathroom detonates with white light. 
His face is concealed by the camera. But this bastard is about to run out of luck. Moves in as she silences the tap. Suddenly a lot of silence about. HELENA twists in panic. She just heard something? Didn't she just hear something? Is somebody in here? Fear kills her scream. She hits at the darkness. But he's gone. 
83:  INT.  LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY. 
Big close on telephone ringing. No one home except the machine and Camera. The former answers on behalf of Berlin [John, it's me .. please call me .. I left two messages at the police stat- ion .. they said you weren't there .. please, please, call me]. The camera moves on. Breakfast remains on the table. Newspaper still in its wraps. Out the window a bonfire rages in the yard. 
84:  EXT.  YARD.  HOUSE.  DAY. 
BERLIN clears rubbish from the garage. Grime and sweat and the effort's got him breathless. Heaves another armful on the fire. The phone starts ringing again. This time he decides to answer. 
85:  INT.  CORRIDOR/ADMIN.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
BERLIN in a hurry to get there. Footsteps tell the story. Fast up a corridor and through a door. Faces look as he crosses the department. SECRETARIES and BISLEY and ROSS. But only one face of interest. TAYLOR turns halfway through lighting a cigarette. "Are you outta your fucken mind?" TAYLOR says nothing. "If any- thing happens to that girl, I'm gonna break your fucking back." 
TAYLOR Just easy on the words you're putting in my face, Sergeant .. 
ROSS Whass going on here? 
A question practically every expression in the place is asking. 
TAYLOR His blind friend got "attacked." Angelo went up there, and some- how, it got itself in the paper. 
BERLIN You put it in there. 
TAYLOR I may have said some- thing. I don't recall. 
BERLIN Don't lie, Taylor. I just had this Blattis guy on the phone asking me for a comment - you gave him the whole damned case! 
TAYLOR Alright, I gave him the case? .. So the case is closed, so what? 
His indifference inflames BERLIN. Smashes the newspaper at him. 
BERLIN So read it! You just hung a target around her neck! 
TAYLOR Bullshit. 
BERLIN Don't you know nothing about this guy? He reads the newspapers. Col- lects the cuttings. When are they gonna find her? Now he's reading Helena Robertson's name, phrased like she's a fucking witness. You couldn't have done anything more stupid if you'd sat down & tried .. 
TAYLOR Hey, c'mon, country boys, let's all line up and hear the expert. 
BERLIN Just walk away from me, Taylor .. 
Now the volume is going up. Now the whole department is silent. 
TAYLOR You think you're the only guy ever worked a homicide? I was a big-city cop too. And I bust- ed the clock on fucken Jennifer. I know more about this man than you'll over know - and that's how I know it ain't him - you- 're investigating a soap-opera .. 
ROSS Alright, guys. We stop this now. 
TAYLOR He tells her, "bye-bye," and she gets "attacked." Well, give me a fucking break! There is no "Ser- ial Killer." Stick her name up in neon, there's still no Serial kil- ler! And I ain't the only one say- ing it. Everyone in this building is saying it. And I mean everyone. 
"Everyone" means ROSS. BERLIN looks at him. And his gaze hurts. 
ROSS Shut up, King Jay .. 
TAYLOR No, c'mon, Freddy, let's have this out & over. You know what everyone thinks? They think you're making a case coz you found yourself a nice piece of ass. And no one's blaming you for it, I hear she's worth the flowers. But don't come in here get- ting holy over us. Sure I put it in the paper. Coz I wanted to stop this bullshit. I don't want you drunk out- ta your head searching my office ag- ain. it's pissing me, & everyone off. 
BERLIN You don't know what you done, Taylor. 
TAYLOR If, your friend from San Diego was up here, and thought for one out of two fucken seconds, she was a danger to him, he'da taken her out weeks ago .. 
His cigarette is already stubbed and he's already walking away. 
Why don't you get yourself a dict- ionary? Look up the word "witness?" 
BERLIN I know what a "witness" is. 
TAYLOR Well, her, it ain't. That bitch is blind as a blonde fucken bat. 
A big mistake Mister Taylor. Mister Berlin suddenly turns into Harrison Ford. TAYLOR slams into filing cabinets right next to the Christmas tree. Gets BERLIN's forearm under his throat and fucking lucky not to get the knuckles in his gut. Both men are heaving. No volume necessary in this room of paralyzed silence. 
BERLIN I'm gonna do something you never did, Taylor. I'm gonna catch this bastard. And when I do, he's gon- na find out just how good a "wit- ness" she is .. Meanwhile, you be aware of me - coz I wish you ill .. 
BERLIN moves away and the silence is brutal. Nothing happening but bad vibes. ROSS and BERLIN exchange glances, And this shit is really bad. BERLIN vanishes into his lab and the door slams. 
86:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
BERLIN and his Dummy wearing a bra and his photographs and his rage are all alone. And that's how they wanna be. But the door opens and here is ROSS. Have to be a friend to survive in here. 
BERLIN Nothing you gotta say do I wanna hear right now. So save yourself saying it. 
ROSS I'm not in here to apologize, John. I told you what was gonna happen & it's happened? "Good-bye, Princess," & the same night she gets attacked? That's a tough one to swallow, Bro? 
BERLIN I'm already familiar with Taylor's opinion. 
ROSS You don't really believe this? 
BERLIN One hundred fucking per cent! .. And you know why? Coz I never told her good-bye. O.K.? Is that good enough for the "committee?" 
The Music is Puccini. Part one/Act two/The Humming Chorus from Madam Butterfly. Giant close of the spinning cassette. The Cam- era remains close as it explores the room. Candle light & fire- light. Along a mantlepiece. Eleven thirty-five on a clock. Two Christmas cards. Several photographs from the happy years. One a picture of Ross & Berlin in uniform. Another features Berlin with his arm around a beautiful young lady with long dark hair. For a moment it could be Helena? But the Camera's already gone. 
HELENA cuddles knees in the corner of a sofa. Looks considerab- ly more relaxed. But there's a tension here and both are aware of it. Stifled yawns. She stares at him and BERLIN stares back. A billion people in love have been through this. It's bed-time. [A suggestion of Berlin's bed to be is heaped in pillows/blank- ets at the end of the couch.] "Come on, I'll take you up there." She finds his hand and stands. The Music follows them upstairs. 
91:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
Moonlight through the windows. They are silhouettes. They want to embrace but in a situation like this a bedroom is the worst place to be. No sound except the Music. And what's anyone supp- osed to say? This atmosphere is about kissing and nothing more. 
Christ hear this Music. A sweet pulse of Puccini. Big close of lips meeting in moonlight. Now in each other's arms. They kiss. And then they're kissing. And nothing else is happening in the whole fucking universe except a telephone just started to ring. 
Still ringing. Still kissing. Somebody has got to give in. The phone finally gets answered. The voice at the end isn't expect- ed. But BERLIN sounds pleased to hear it. It seems one problem got solved. "I gotta tell you, Margie. You are Mrs Santa Claus." 
92:  INT/EXT.  KITCHEN/REAR ENTRANCE.  ROSS'S HOUSE.  DAY. 
Is Ross throwing a party or opening a bar? Crates of booze and stack upon stack of beer. A bit of "where do you want it?" act- ing from BERLIN as he staggers in with a delivery of Bud. ROSS makes room on a table. Rips a beer out the plastic and pops it. 
BERLIN Can't thank you enough, Ross .. 
ROSS Don't thank me. Thank Margie. 
Swallowing beer ROSS exits the back door with BERLIN following. 
It's her invitation. And as far as Citrine in concerned, better we keep it like that. 
The wagon waits outside with a few crates left to unload, BER- LIN heads for his Mercedes with ROSS calling after him. "John. Here." Pulls a six pack from his supplies and throws it across. 
There's an old desperado in one of the cells. Why don't you give him this, and tell him happy Christmas from me? 
93:  INT.  BEDROOM.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY. 
The Girls prepare for festivity. They got a full length mirror. A wardrobe of dresses. A menu of shoes, What they do with them in this scene is their affair. Right now MARGIE's holding some blue number in front of HELENA."It's blue silk. You like blue?" 
MARGIE Not "you" blue. This isn't you. 
She slings the dress on the bed. It joins a pile of rehearsals. Moves deeper into her dresses and HELENA appears in the mirror. 
HELENA When did John divorce? 
MARGIE Two or three years ago. 
HELENA What was she like? 
MARGIE Suzanne? Very pretty. She was a semi- professional model. But a policeman's wife she wasn't. So one day, she just packed it and left. And his whole life went straight down the nearest toilet. 
HELENA What does that mean? 
MARGIE You know, he crashed. He just couldn't come to terms with it .. John hates to lose, and he hated losing her .. Every spare minute, he's driving down to San Diego, having a terrible time with her, getting drunk, and driving back .. you just don't believe the amount he drank .. 
She pirouettes with black sequins. "What do you think of black?" Evidently not much and MARGIE is getting short of alternatives. 
Wait a minute, I just had the most brilliant idea .. 
HELENA You think he still loves her? 
MARGIE Think he still thinks about her. But not like then. Then was an obsession. 
She emerges from the wardrobe with red satin high heeled shoes. 
Here .. try these .. if these fit, we got the perfect dress .. 
HELENA I haven't worn heels since I was 16. I don't think I could walk in these? 
MARGIE Sure you can. Anyway, parties are all about standing still .. 
HELENA is excited to try them out. The experiment is a success. 
I'll go get the dress .. It's kinda sultry .. I only wore it once, coz in reality, I can't get away with it .. 
HELENA You think John would like it? 
MARGIE I think John, would love it ... 
94:  EXT.  HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
The Ross residence looks like an ad for J&B. Warm yellow light from the windows. Holly wreath on the front door. The Mercedes pulls up and BERLIN gets out with his bag and suit on a hanger. A hard wind around the house. He walks inside without knocking. 
95:  INT.  DEN.  HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
The den looks like a little museum. Walls decorated with Civil War memorabilia. One wall occupied by a cabinet of modern guns. ROSS looks like Roy Rogers trying to look like Fred Astaire. A powder blue evening suit. Ho dumps ice in a barrel full of Bud- wieser and BERLIN produces a couple of presents. "This is from Helena. And this is from me." The first obviously a music tape. ROSS holds it to his ear. "Sounds like Frank Sinatra?" And the second a bottle of (Ross tears the wrappings off) Chivas Regal! 
ROSS Let's do one of these right now, then we'll hide the sonovabitch. 
But he's already lost BERLIN's attention. MARGIE walks in with HELENA. Jesus what have you done to her? Bright red lipstick & jet black mascara and dress made of blood red sequins. Sexy it is but her it isn't. She looks like one of those big tit dopes from Tennessee. She also looks like 37 million dollars. Christ that smile works with paint. An appraisal comes from ROSS "Wow." 
96:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
The whole house is going around in a haze of booze and colored lights and laughter. Buddy Holly supplies the music "True Love Ways" and ROSS is a victim of the nostalgia. Dances close with MARGIE. Among the kaleidoscope of passing couples are HELENA & BERLIN. Eyes closed and oblivious of everything but each other. 
But someone is staring at them. About forty years old with big hands. Too old for acne but the skin is bad. Got a scar on his cheek like a ladder in a stocking. He continues to stare until the dancers separate. Music ends and he's already in the crowd. 
BERLIN arrives with a whisper for MARGIE and next thing HELENA is on her arm heading for the stairs. Obviously a "ladies room" run. Everly Brothers next record up and SERATO appears through the crush. Spots ROSS who wants to know "What happened to you?" 
ROSS already arrived. BERLIN looks desolate. She can't go back. 
You better go talk to her .. 
ROSS watches him walk upstairs. His eyes an assessment of this absurd relationship. "All sorts of people fall in love, Darlin." 
ROSS I know .. ain't it a shame .. 
100:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
A wedge of light as BERLIN walks in. Then moonlight again. HEL- ENA sits at the edge of a single bed. Hair a wreck and mascara streaks down her face. He sits identifying himself with an emb- race. Clears the hair from her eyes and kisses where the tears were. "It was an accident .. everyone has accidents." Whatever he said would be the wrong thing to say. Because he doesn't un- derstand. And her only explanation of this misery is new tears. 
HELENA I can't walk in these shoes .. 
Gently he reaches down and takes off her shoos "You don't have to dress like this for me." And suddenly the mood is different. He is amongst her tears. Kissing her mouth. Already undressing her. Her dress glides up. Silk stockings. He unclips them. She feels his hands drift down her legs. Hears the zip opening her dress. She returns his desire and helps him with her brassiere. He kisses her breasts and by now the Camera's too close to see. 
101:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
HELENA asleep in BERLIN's arms. Just the worry of the wind. He kisses her and slips out of bed and everything slams into MASS- IVE CLOSE-UP. PLUS A MASSIVE AMPLIFICATION OF SOUND. THE SLIDE SNAPS BACK ON A 9 MILL BERETTA. THE MAGAZINE SHUNTS OUT. SLUGS LOADED AND MAG BACK IN. THE SLIDE TRAVELS FORWARD BIG AS A CAR. 
BERLIN is fully dressed. Geared up for work. Black leather glo- ves and black leather jacket. Shoves the Beretta into his belt. From somewhere a very soft sound of Christmas carols drifts in. 
102:  INT.  STAIRS/LIVING ROOM/DEN.  HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
This is deep past midnight, The house is quiet and gone to bed. Fallout from the party everywhere. Still that distant sound of carols. BERLIN dumps his bag and walks into the den. Just dark- ness and the forgotten tape machine. Flips on a lamp and tries to open the gun cabinet. Still trying when startled by a voice. 
ROSS (O.S.) You can't get in there .. That's "Comanche Proof." 
BERLIN swings round in surprise. ROSS is half asleep on a sofa. 
BERLIN Jesus. What are you doin? 
ROSS I spose I'm drinking myself to sleep. It's Helena's Christmas songs .. they're really pretty .. 
"Silent Night. Holy Night" and about two inches of Chivas left. 
BERLIN Have you got any Glasers? (Ross does) Twenty fives? 
BERLIN sticks a foot on a table. Pulls a .25 Walther automatic from an ankle holster. Ejects the mag and clicks out the slugs. 
ROSS What exactly you doing, John? 
BERLIN I'm going up to the institute. 
ROSS Now? 
BERLIN This "cop" that's calling, thinks she gonna be there over Christmas. 
ROSS unlocks a cabinet and BERLIN is about to load the Glasers. 
I checked with the locals and our station, no one's called. Whoever it is, isn't the police.  I think this bastard's getting worried ab- out something? .. and I think the- re's just a chance he'll turn up. 
ROSS Well, let's hope he does .. 
ROSS selects a 12 gauge Winchester and rams the mechanism open. 
And if he does, I'm gonna drop a bomb on the fukker. 
BERLIN Listen, you don't havta come? 
ROSS Hey .. 
ROSS is stuffing solid lead "car killers" into the pump action. 
Watch my lips. I'm your partner. 
103:  EXT.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  NIGHT. 
This is probably a crane shot. A gale works up the valley. The institute is in total darkness. Not a vehicle out front. Not a sound except the marauding wind. Ross's Chevrolet is concealed amongst trees. Been here long enough to allow slow flurries to accumulate. It stares towards the building maybe 75 yards away. 
104:  INT.  CHEVROLET SEDAN.  NIGHT. 
BERLIN wears a black wool hat. ROSS a big black overcoat. Both got shit frozen out of them. A bottle available and anyone who wants a slug better help himself. Plus sleet on the windshield and a lot of stale time. BERLIN asks what time it is? And ROSS takes a heave on the booze and waits for about a week to go by. 
ROSS Where's your watch? 
BERLIN I guess by the bed. 
ROSS It's twenty of three. 
Yawns do a circuit. ROSS flops in his seat and the angle chang- es. The view from the rear covers windscreen and back of heads. 
A little young for you, Bro? (Gets his eyes) You think if she could see, she'd be hanging around with an old dog like you? You got a stomach growing around to meet itself behind your back. 
BERLIN Bull shit .. I'm in my prime .. 
ROSS Bits. 
BERLIN What d'you mean, "bits." 
A star-light on the windshield. Distant and nobody seen it yet. 
The MYOPIC JANITOR looks down. Five floors below a man lays on his back. His shotgun discharges uselessly into trees. Another man leans over him. Illuminates his agonized face with a flash- light. Shoots him again point-blank in the upper body. The MYO- PIC isn't staying for more. Hurries back along the fire escape. 
114:  INT.  ATTIC APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT. 
Wind breaks on the roof like waves. An utterly dismal room lit by a starving light bulb. The MYOPIC arrives from the fire esc- ape. Huge eyes behind those orb-like glasses. Picks up a phone and dials. Piles and piles of old newspapers. Hundreds of fuck magazines. In the kitchen section a mass of photographic equip- ment includes an enlarger on the table a flash camera.  On the wall behind him a collage of snaps of half dressed girls. Plus a special enlargement of Helena standing naked in her bathroom. 
MYOPIC Gimme the police. Quickly. 
115:  EXT.  REAR OF INSTITUTE.  FIRE ESCAPE.  NIGHT. 
Close on a bulb in a flashlight. The merest glimmer of energy. Barely the light to see the blood. It seeps into a long-frozen footprint in the ice. Fills it fast and expands over the sides. 
Somebody say this can't be happening? BERLIN crumples to knees in the snow. Dumps his light gasping for breath. Oblique light creating desperate silhouettes. BERLIN howls like a dog. Howls into his radio. "Nine - Nine - Nine." Blood all over his hands. 
"This is a Nine - Nine - Nine - officer down." ROSS is heaving like an old bull elephant. On the verge of unconsciousness. He tries to speak. Got hit in the throat. BERLIN fights off tears. 
"Don't talk old man." Repeats the emergency code but this time he can't be heard. Almost imperceptibly a Carol filters in (In The Bleak Mid Winter) and the Camera moves slowly away. BERLIN cradles ROSS's tragic head and the song drowns the raging wind. 
This beautiful Christmas carol will articulate rhythm of these cuts. And there will be no other sound until the sequence ends. 
116:  EXT.  CITY STREET.  CITY HOSPITAL.  NIGHT. 
A blue emergency light. Revolving in slow motion. Like a dream. The city streets are a blur. The light accelerates into sudden reality. Ambulance plus police convoy speed to a city hospital. 
117:  INT.  EMERGENCY ROOM.  HOSPITAL.  NIGHT. 
Close-up of MARGIE kissing her husband's lips for the last time. Tears spill down his cheeks from her eyes. FREDDY ROSS is dead. 
118:  INT.  WAITING AREA.  HOSPITAL.  NIGHT. 
Outside in the corridor. Looking in at BERLIN. He sits head in hands on a bench. This is somebody's point of view. The camera travels up the windows. Waits at a distance as CITRINE arrives. Pajamas under his clothes. He walks with assistance of a stick. 
Neither say anything because both know what this is about. BER- LIN stands and hands over his badge. Exits the mag and now his Beretta. A brief word from CITRINE and he turns and walks away. 
119:  EXT.  LANDSCAPE.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAWN. 
A little house in winter meadows. Kind of pretty now it's pain- ted. Just the first tint of pink on its roof. The Carol dissol- ves into birdsong. Here comes the sun for a fine Christmas day. 
120:  EXT.  VERANDA.  HOUSE.  DAWN. 
All new paint and all new things in expectation of happy times. A barbecue still in polythene wraps. Price tag and unconnected gas pipe shift gently in the breeze. A brand now swinging seat. 
BERLIN sits in it with shock wearing on. Expressionless of sor- row. Though he suffers every sorrow and guilt and regret there is. Sunlight reaches the veranda and colors the end of it red. silent and motionless he watches the lousiest dawn of his life. 
121:  EXT/INT.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  LIVING ROOM.  DAY. 
Lights glow on the Christmas tree. Unopened presents still und- erneath. SERATO sits smoking in silence. Listens to a sound of plates getting stacked in another room. He looks up but not in surprise. He just wasn't aware BERLIN had arrived in the house. 
BERLIN Where's Margie? 
Stunned and stubbled and full of grief. And that's just SERATO. 
SERATO Taken Bobby to her sister's .. 
This atmosphere is unbearable and even these whispers seem laud. 
They were going there anyway. 
BERLIN Does he know? 
SERATO shakes his head. Loses his cigarette. And SAMMY appears. 
SERATO Thinks his dad's in hospital. 
SAMMY SERATO is 30 and pretty. She continues collecting plates. 
Why'd you go up there, John? 
Knows he's not going to get a reply and doesn't bother to wait for it. HELENA materializes from the den like a shadow. Sallow for want of sleep and glad to have BERLIN's hand to hang on to. 
BERLIN I want you to go to your Aunt's. 
A suggestion that surprises HELENA. And clearly doesn't appeal. 
HELENA Why can't I stay with you? 
BERLIN It's not possible right now. 
HELENA Why? 
BERLIN Please don't ask no quest- ions now .. Not right now .. 
If silence can intensify it's now. Sound of the front door and then footsteps. BERLIN freezes as MARGIE appears. Wracked with grief. Dead sickness of tears. Like she cried bones out of her face. But no weeping now. Maybe shock. Maybe brave. Maybe both. 
HELENA Is that Margie? 
MARGIE I'm here, honey. I'm right here. 
The strongest face in the house. And now HELENA is in her arms. 
Don't cry darlin .. he was a big old cop and he didn't like tears .. 
St ANNE Games? 
BERLIN I told you, I'd lost the Walther .. 
St ANNE You told me you didn't know you'd lost it until you were in the hos- pital? So, if you didn't know till then, it coulda been either weapon? 
BERLIN The gun in my hand was a Beretta. And for the record, I want that note corrected. Now, please, Sir. 
The dead smile and rubber in action. St ANNE changes his notes. 
St ANNE O.K. I'm corrected. I'm sorry, I made a mistake. 
BERLIN With respect, Sir, you didn't make a mistake. I know who you are, and you're far too experienced for mis- takes. Now if you have doubts over the content, or veracity of my rep- ort, I wanna be made aware of them? 
St ANNE Sure. 
BERLIN I wanna be made aware of them now. 
St ANNE Do you want a lawyer, Sergeant? 
BERLIN There you go again? "Do I want a lawyer, Sergeant?" It's a game question. What do I want a law- yer for? I got nothing to hide .. 
St ANNE You don't? 
BERLIN You know I don't. So let's quit the bullshit and get down to it. What's your "angle," Mr St Anne? 
For the first time St ANNE moves his chair into BERLIN's space. 
St ANNE Where's the little gun, Sergeant? 
BERLIN I've no idea. 
St ANNE You don't? 
BERLIN If it isn't in the institute, the man who shot Ross took it. 
St ANNE The man who shot Ross, used it .. 
Implications are ganging up quicker than BERLIN can focus them. 
And you don't know where that little twenty-five calibre Walther's gone? 
BERLIN confirms it. Looking very concerned. The wheels retreat. St ANNE shakes out a cigarette and takes his time with matches. 
O.K. Sergeant, here it is. I intend to produce evidence, that will prove you shot Frederick Ross with malice afore- thought. My angle therefore, is to pre- pare a case on behalf of your Chief, to prosecute you for first degree murder. 
129:  INT.  ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
The lights on the Christmas tree are off. That just about sums it up. The word's out and it talks in barren silence as BERLIN appears. TAYLOR and SERATO in conference at a desk. The former looks. The latter turns away. BERLIN walks the room into close- up. "Like some coffee, John?" Seems like ANN is the only benev- olent face around. She gets a lost smile & bewildered shake of his head. Disappears into his room And quietly closes the door. 
130:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
A picture of Ross fills the frame. Snapped the day they search- ed the dump. Blasted with rain. A waterproof cape and a finger raised in defiance. BERLIN shifts eyes from the bulletin board. Pours a last inch of whisky and drinks. Eyes back to the board for a last photographic/panoramic record of his time in Eureka. 
The photo of Ross again before his eyes sweep quickly on. Pict- ure of Amber Stone. Thumb tacks and maps and tape. Information relating to specific areas in San Diego. Carlsbad/Ocean Beach/ Point Loma. "Jennifer Seven" "Jennifer Eight." But who gives a fuck anymore? Two dead dogs on a refuse dump. And now the dead face of a Dummy. BERLIN stares till someone knocks on the door. St ANNE comes in smoking a cigarette and eating a ham sandwich. 
St ANNE You go home, John, get some sleep. I don't wanna talk any more today. 
BERLIN Aren't you gonna arrest me? 
St ANNE You know better than that ... 
He will exit when he stops speaking. Before he does he wanders the lab showing particular interest in the Dummy of Jennifer 8. 
I arrest you, you'll get bail, and be walking outta here anyway - and I'll have no one to talk to - Your Chief said he'd make you available to me. If you go to the store, call in, and let your duty officer know. 
131:  INT.  BOBBY'S BEDROOM.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  NIGHT. 
BOBBY is in hysterics. A gale of tears. Fits his words between them. His Mom does her best to cope with his grief and her own. 
MARGIE Your Daddy would have wanted you to be strong .. We gotta be strong for Daddy, darling .. 
BOBBY I don't want her in this house .. I want my Dad. Why did she have to come here .. I want my Daddy .. 
132:  INT.  KITCHEN.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY. 
Fingers search out and identify phone numbers. Dial for inform- ation and HELENA whispers "I need the number for a cab, please." 
133:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
The Camera's getting closer and so is St ANNE. And today there is a definite change of mood. Still very measured. Still a pro- fessional demeanor. But a bad sense of shit about to come down. 
St ANNE .. there was a gale that night .. all the doors are swinging .. so this door swings back and clips you .. and down you go .. within 35 seconds of uncon- sciousness, you're back on the fire es- cape, and you're confused, really con- fused .. you don't know if Tuesdays come in two's or happen once a week .. 
Bit of a cold coming on and near enough for BERLIN to catch it. 
You see a figure coming up the stairs. Ross ain't meant to be on the stairs? He challenges you .. and this ain't a piece of wood with a nail through it .. this guy's got a 12 gauge Winchester up your nose .. and he's drunk .. and you're dizzy .. and your eye's fulla blood .. you ain't thinking good, and you're seeing worse .. Wow! .. it just went off! .. You just put him down? .. and you get hit by a Glaser, you stay down .. But he ain't dead .. Now, you realize you shot your partner .. "Oh, Suzanna, how do I get outta this?" I know .. The "Serial Killer" shot him .. And here comes the malice, John .. 17 seconds later, you put another one in his throat .. Isn't that what happened? 
BERLIN No. 
St ANNE Tell us what happened, then? 
If St ANNE can raise an eyebrow he does. By implication BERLIN is ditching his "Killer." During this St ANNE rewinds his Sony. 
You're telling me it's his flashlight I saw, O.K., he sees my flashlight? And I'm coming up the stairs with a Beretta in my hand. And he's frightened. He hits the door on me. Picks up my gun. He's running. He runs into Ross, and in panic, he shoots him. 
The little Sony snaps to a stop and St ANNE looks at his watch. 
St ANNE Not unless he had a gun in one hand, and a phone in the other, he didn't. Ross was shot at ex- actly two fifty-seven a.m. The janitor put a call through to the local police, at 2:57 a.m. You obviously realize how I can get so accurate with my timing? 
St ANNE backs off and carefully replaces the Sony on the table. 
Ross switched into channel 8, & we got a recording of the whole incident. I was gonna play it to you, but I got a meeting, we'll have to do it after lunch. It's one, let's make it back by three? 
137:  INT.  BEDROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY. 
HELENA is curled up under blankets. Maybe day-dreaming but not asleep. She's maybe here to keep warm as much as anything else. Sound of a vehicle approaching and she sits to listen. The car pulls up and its engine silences. HELENA is already out of bed. 
138:  INT.  LIVING ROOM/PORCH/FRONT YARD.  HOUSE.  DAY. 
Silhouette of a figure outside the front door. Someone rattles the handle but it's locked. And by the time HELENA reaches the door the visitor has gone. Thinking it's Berlin she twists the key and steps onto the porch. A stale winter fog settling down. 
Hardly a sound except her own voice. "John? Is that you?" Just the rattle of local Crows and a Bull heaving somewhere in some distant field. "John?" She cautiously descends wood stairs and walks two or three paces before bumping into a brown Chevrolet. 
Exploration of the car establishes nil. More confused than con- cerned she listens. Country sound and not a sound out of place 
Then suddenly she is alert. Something clatters somewhere. Like cans kicked in the garage? Was it the garage? "John, is it you?" 
139:  INT.  KITCHEN/LIVING ROOM/BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  DAY. 
HELENA locks the front door. Moves into the kitchen. Locks the back door. Glum silence in the house. Nothing but an old alarm clock ticking. Then a sound like something moving. Like a door creaking open? Was it in the garage? The living room? Upstairs? 
She returns to the living room. Curtains drawn and almost dark. The endless silence is interrupted by a rush of water in pipes. If anybody's here they're upstairs? HELENA moves to the bottom of them "John, are you up there? It's me, darling. I got a cab." 
The only reply is more silence. She begins to climb the stairs. 
One hand on the wall. She ascends slowly. Her helplessness giv- ing way to suspicion with each new step. At the top she pushes into the bedroom "John, are you here? Darling? Are you alright?" 
Apparently no one is here. Certainly no one in the bed. And no one in the bathroom. She reappears with an expression suppress- ing anxiety. Feels her way past an antique wardrobe. Curiously its door is open. A full length mirror inside. Shuts it as she passes and for a split-instant the Man in the room is revealed. 
Almost simultaneously fingers in black leather clasp her wrist. HELENA in speechless with shock. Both she and the INTRUDER are breathing hard. The only other sound is the wardrobe door whin- ing open again under its weight. Manifests a reflection of his back. Totally in black. Black wool hat. Leather jacket. Gloves. 
INTRUDER Got really fucken lucky, didn't ya? 
He backs her to the bed and sits her before releasing his grip. The frame remains static and staring into the mirror and still on the INTRUDER's back. HELENA stares unseeing at her own face. 
I was getting kinda concerned about you Jenny. Like, how blind are you? Blind as your friend? Or less blind? Coz she could see, you know. Had a view outta one of em. But you don't see nothing do you? Nothing at all? 
He reaches into his jeans and produces a stainless steel knife. Even closed this thing is 10 inches long. A leather loop attat- ched at one and. He teases the metal in front of HELENA's eyes. 
Can you see this, blind girl? 
Not a switch-blade but by snapping it like a whip it locks out. 
Gimme your hand. 
Too terrified to obey and her inability momentarily angers him. 
Gimme your fucken hand. 
HELENA lifts her hand and he takes it. He runs the edge of the blade over her palm. Then closes her fingers around the handle. 
You like it? 
She is paralyzed except for the tears spilling down her cheeks. 
I cut your friend's head off with that .. 
Words come out she can barely hear herself. "You are a coward." 
You say something, Jenny? 
In this terrible silence she hears a double hiss of an aerosol. 
I'd like to cut you. I'd like to cut you so bad .. But ain't life strange? You're my little buddy now .. I guess we all got lucky? 
140:  EXT.  CAR PARK.  POLICE STATION.  CITY OF EUREKA.  DAY. 
Fog and dusk in that order. Headlights descend the slope. Park and CITRINE plus cane get out. As he crosses the lot a Uniform fires up a Harley. Next face is SERATO heading for his car. He accosts the Chief with a piece of paper. It is read with escal- ating incredulity. This would be comic if it wasn't so serious. 
SERATO She's in love with him, Chief, and try anything? 
CITRINE Are you going up there? 
SERATO No, I just sent Travis. I've got a call to make. 
CITRINE What about the man? .. Has he seen this? .. [No he hasn't] .. Alright, make your call, and get up there ... Bullshit or not, I wanna proper statement .. 
141:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/INTERROGATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
CITRINE walks in in his overcoat. BISLEY looks across from the window. And the ASSISTANT up from a crossword. "Are they busy?" 
ASSISTANT No, Sir, they just got back. 
BERLIN wipes a thought through his hair with fingers. "I don't know what that means." Walks past into the bedroom. Everything taken apart. Every drawer open and the bed heaped with clothes. 
BERLIN ... he's either here to take something .. or leave some- thing .. I don't find nothing .. 
146:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
BERLIN pours last of the whisky. Looks totally snuffed out. He and HELENA sit on the same sofa but the atmosphere puts them a mile apart. A yellow pad on the table covered in notes. BERLIN swallows scotch and reads to himself "I guess we all got lucky?" 
HELENA You gotta stop drinking, darling. 
Another mouthful of scotch & she hears the glass hit the table. 
He's glad you're drinking. Every drink you take you're helping him. 
BERLIN He doesn't need my help. 
HELENA I know about alcohol, John. 
BERLIN You do? 
HELENA I'm blind because my father drank. 
That's what she knows about alcohol and he'd prefer to be dead. 
I lost everyone I ever loved .. I lost my hopes .. my future .. I'm in love with you, John .. I don't want them to take you away from me .. 
147:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
St ANNE is close enough to kiss BERLIN. Right into his space & talking right into his face. And today he's not in a good mood. 
St ANNE He humiliated you. In front of every one .. In front of a bunch of secret- aries? .. Well, that would piss any- one off? ... That would piss me off .. I'd be real mad if a guy did that to me, & called himself a friend .. Coz that ain't a friendly thing to do? .. You side with "friends" .. You don't go bitchin on them behind their back? 
And he suddenly switches gear. And whispers like it's a secret. 
He wasn't much of a "friend" at all? 
BERLIN Ross was my best friend. 
St ANNE Did you shoot your "best friend?" 
BERLIN No. 
St ANNE The next time I ask you that quest- ion, you're gonna tell me the truth. 
St ANNE shunts back in his chair. Expands the frame as he goes. Sergeant TAYLOR sits on a chair with his back to the wall. Cig- arettes and ashtray on the table next to his. St ANNE lights a Pall Mall and as if it's an after-thought he snaps the Sony on. 
[TAPE] .. "Just be careful now, coz I'm coming up." .. [Footsteps on cast iron stairs] "Is that you, John? .. Answer .. Now .. or I blow this fucken staircase to pie- ces." [Sound of someone breathing hard] 
BERLIN already looks devastated. He's about to got annihilated. 
"Me, Freddy." .. [Just the gale] "What the hell's going on up there, Brother? I been calling ton minutes." .. [Lungs heave for air) "Hey, c'mon, John, talk to me?" [Just the sound of breathless- ness] "Jesus Christ .. What are you do- ing? What the fuck are you doing? It's me - Holy shit - John - John - Not you - Don't shoot you crazy bastard! [2 shots] 
St ANNE clicks the Sony off & BERLIN is too stunned to breathe. 
St ANNE That's second degree - you wanna stop at that? Will you give me that, John? 
BERLIN gives him nothing but silence. A knock on the door "Come in." And the ASSISTANT hands St ANNE a note. Reads it and excus- es himself. Leaves the silence for BERLIN. But TAYLOR breaks it. 
TAYLOR He's offerin you a deal? Why don't you take it .. 
BERLIN He ain't offerin me shit. 
TAYLOR lights a cigarette and exhales. Something of a real red- headed fuck about him. And BERLIN would like to break his neck. 
You're letting it show, King Jay. 
TAYLOR I don't like you. But don't kid yourself .. I don't take no ple- asure sitting in on another cop .. 
He rolls ash off his cigarette and pushes it round the ashtray. 
Your an alcoholic, aren't you? (BERLIN stares) It's written in your file .. 
The phone rings and TAYLOR answers. Puts his red eyes at BERLIN. 
They want you to look in the mirror. 
BERLIN has to find every strength for this one. Humiliation com- pounds. Gets up and stares at his own haunted face in the glass. 
148:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/INTERROGATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
The MYOPIC peers into BERLIN's face. St ANNE stands close with his toilet roll. Light refracts in the MYOPIC's lenses "I seen him up there quite a lot." St ANNE blows his nose "Is that the man you saw that night?" He stares again at the tormented face. 
MYOPIC Well .. I dunno .. it could be? 
St ANNE Alright, thank you, Mr Dawson .. 
He's escorted to the door and his space is occupied by CITRINE. 
CITRINE What's all this "deal" business? 
St ANNE on his way to the door now. He pauses for the question. 
But he does know what it is. The pill he found in the V.W. van. 
You don't know how it got there? 
TAYLOR stares a rock drill and St ANNE stares something similar. 
You don't use it for breathlessness? 
BERLIN focuses a fragment of hope. But no sign of hope in here. 
I'm running outta questions, John, and you're running out of lies? I'm offer- ing you one last chance, and you better take it, or the U.S. Attorney is gonna put you in the God-damned gas chamber .. 
BERLIN I need .. some time .. to think Sir .. 
St ANNE Alright. Think about it. But don't you make a fool of me. You come in here with one more lie, and I bull- shit you not, I'm gonna press for the maximum penalty there is. And that's the death penalty, Sergeant. 
151:  INT.  WAITING AREA.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
BERLIN hurries in and grabs HELENA's hand. Instantly transmits the adrenalin. They head for the door with him whispering hard. 
BERLIN We got a break - isn't much, but it's a break .. the man that murdered Ross gets asthma - it's not a breath fresh- ner, darling - it's an asthma inhaler .. 
152:  INT.  KITCHEN.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY. 
BERLIN/HELENA couldn't have been in the house longer than it's taken to call Los Angeles. MARGIE infected with the excitement although as yet she hardly knows what's going on. BERLIN paces the tiles on a long phone lead. Eyes to MARGIE while they wait. 
BERLIN This capsule came out of a V.W. van - I didn't even think about it - stuck it in the ashtray - if I'd been smok- ing, ita been thrown away weeks ago .. (Phone) No, Amanda - it's definitely Amanda .. 
Another excruciating wait plus further explanations for MARGIE. 
I had the van - this guy drove that van takes his medication and loses one .. (Phone) - Dan - Hearing - Are you sure? - Would you try Frisco for me? - I'll try and get a second name .. 
Dumps the phone and stokes anxiety in HELENA and MARGIE's eyes. 
No Amanda with a white Volkswagen .. You don't have a Yellow Pages for Oakland, do you? (She don't) I got- ta get down there, find that store .. 
Everything happens in a hurry. He embraces HELENA. She'll pray for him. Already out the back door with MARGIE in tow. A black & white parked in the drive with VENABLES stuffed inside. Plus a grim wind tearing trees. BERLIN pauses as he reaches his car. 
BERLIN You be careful .. This man's close .. 
Catches her eyes. Can barely look at them. They're full of hate. 
MARGIE If you find him, John. I want you to call me. I wanna know his name. 
153:  EXT.  HILLSIDE.  OAKLAND.  DAY. 
Wide over the bay area. Wind swept and rain swept. City lights beginning to come on. In the distance the docks and far beyond the ocean. Somewhere here is a solitary phone booth. "I'm look- ing for a special type of rattan .. friend of mine recommended you, said I should ask for someone called Amanda .. You don't? O.K. .. Thank you." Followed by sound of a phone slamming down. 
154:  INT.  PHONE BOOTH.  HILLSIDE STREET.  DAY. 
A stack of coins and a pair of ripped out Yellow Pages. BERLIN crosses off another number. Running out of craft shops and run- ning out of quarters. A new number hears the same old bullshit. But this one is answering good! Fights to keep his voice light. 
BERLIN (Phone) She's not there? - Let me just make sure I got the right Amanda - lotta freckles, right? .. Right .. That's right, that's her .. Well, eh, what time d'you expect her? .. O.K. I'll eh, try and pop over this afternoon. 
And he comes out of there running. The Chevy roars up the hill. 
155:  INT.  ANTIQUE MARKET.  CRAFT EMPORIUM.  DUSK. 
The kind of store heads open in abandoned warehouses. A jungle of jewelry and cane furniture and ethnic junk.  Many chairs of the ilk Berlin saw in the Volkswagen van. And now he's staring at its driver. His P.O.V. through windows. He watches as a red headed Girl clears the till in preparation to close up. within moments the lights are dead and AMANDA is heading for her door. 
156:  EXT.  MARKET/WAREHOUSE.  CAR PARK.  DUSK. 
Plenty of rain to hurry in. AMANDA. drives a red Datsun. She ex- its the car park with a man in a brown Chevrolet following her. 
157:  EXT/INT.  CAR/STREETS.  SUBURBS.  OAKLAND.  NIGHT. 
The Chevy tails the Datsun through city streets. A lot of rush hour traffic. Music to go with it and it's probably Mussorgsky. 
A final cut and headlights are navigating the hills. Disappear and reappear as they ascend. Steep inclines and the houses are middle class. Too dark to see much now but lamp posts and rain. 
Still climbing the Datsun takes a side street. BERLIN keeps 50 yards behind. She turns off and parks in a sloping driveway. A white Volkswagen van at the top of it. BERLIN has already pull- ed over. Kills his lights and watches her hurry into the house. 
158:  EXT.  STEEP STAIRS.  PORCH.  HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
BERLIN just rang the doorbell. Imposes an impartial expression. But this is his last chance and he knows it. The front door is opened & secured on a safety-chain. AMANDA carries a white Cat. 
BERLIN I'm sorry to trouble you, but eh .. Wait a minute, don't I know you? 
And she stares like he does not. Before she stares like he does. 
You're Amanda? Remember, you near- ly ran into me? Way up in Trinity? 
His smile disarms the securities. And she opens the front door. 
AMANDA As I said, Sergeant, you nearly ran into me? What's the problem? 
BERLIN I'm afraid it's the "van" again. 
AMANDA The van? 
BERLIN Is it your vehicle? 
You'll have to put that question to the Chief. I've nothing to add. 
BOBBY appears somewhere behind the Ladies. T.V. commentary con- tinues. "Meanwhile, Sergeant Berlin remains in a cell at police headquarters arraigned on what is believed to be  a $500,000.00 bail. As Mayor Heineman said, this, is a 'sad day' for Eureka." Except for the one face that isn't sad and it belongs to BOBBY. 
168:  INT.  CORRIDOR/CELLS.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
The cell window is reinforced glass. BERLIN smashes on it like an insane man. TRAVIS (apparently on cell duty) has never seen nothing like this before. CITRINE doesn't want to see any more. 
BERLIN I'll sign anything you want. Please. Bring here her .. I want Helena here .. 
CITRINE You ain't talking to no one, till you calm down. 
BERLIN I am calm .. I am calm .. 
But he isn't and CITRINE moves off. BERLIN cracks blood out of knuckles on the glass. Hollers up the corridor after the Chief. 
Get St Anne .. I want St Anne .. 
169:  EXT.  DRIVE.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY. 
Gale still making a mass of the trees. A police Chevy pulls up and TAYLOR gets out. Puts a knuckle on the window of a black & white. A Uniform wakes and TAYLOR interrupts his apologies "Go." And the young Cop does the drive as TAYLOR heads for the house. 
170:  INT.  STAIRS/LIVING ROOM.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY. 
HELENA descends the stairs with her luggage. She's towards the bottom when TAYLOR appears via the kitchen. Lights momentarily stall as the gale sucks their electricity. Ignorant of his pre- sence she loses her bags and disappears into the den. He moves after her and startles the shit out of MARGIE as she comes out. 
MARGIE Jesus. What are you doing here? 
TAYLOR Been trying to call, your line's down .. I just wanna let you know we're taking the guard off today. 
MARGIE heads for a table and unloads a strong-box of documents. 
Is she going somewhere? 
MARGIE I'm taking her back to the Instit- ute. Her new term starts tomorrow. 
He watches her select various papers aware of what she's about. 
TAYLOR Not gonna try and bail him are you? I really wouldn't bother, Margie .. 
HELENA reappears wearing a coat and TAYLOR is in generous mood. 
You want me to drive her? .. I'm through with my shift .. 
MARGIE No .. I'll drive her .. 
171:  INT.  CELL.  POLICE STATION.  DAY. 
Here's a classic twenty-two. BERLIN is consumed with anxiety & rage. But get mad in here and get nothing. No shoe strings and no wrist watch. But a wrist-band like something medical summar- izing his charge. St ANNE sits impassive as BERLIN walks floor. 
BERLIN I'll sign anything you like - you write it, I'll sign it. But I want her and Margie here. I want an opp- ortunity to talk to them - that's all I'm asking? - That's my deal? .. 
St ANNE O.K. I'll put it to your Chief? 
BERLIN Well, you'd better put it to him pretty dammed quick, Mr St Anne, because if you don't, she's dead. 
St ANNE Didn't push her down stairs on their previous meeting, did he? 
BERLIN He was up there to plant the gun. 
St ANNE Did Taylor plant this, too? 
Produces a Zippo in a plastic sack and BERLIN's senses capsize. 
Is it yours? 
A question for which St ANNE expects no answer and he is right. 
We found "Jennifer Eight." At least, we've found a headless and handless girl. A couple of hunters found her. 
Maybe BERLIN asks him "Where" or maybe his expression's enough? 
About 4 miles south of the institute, less than 50 feet from the road. This was less than 100 feet from the body. 
BERLIN can't believe it and knows St ANNE wouldn't believe him. 
Is it yours? - (no answer) - I know it's yours? - You know it's yours? The only prints on it are Freddy's? You wanna tell me how it got there? 
BERLIN wouldn't believe it either. Door open and TRAVIS enters. 
TRAVIS Margie Ross put up your bond, Sir. 
St ANNE and BERLIN look surprised. And BERLIN looks at St ANNE. 
BERLIN Are you getting in the way of it? 
St ANNE examines the bail/bond paper and raises eyes to BERLIN. 
St ANNE I don't make the law. 
172:  EXT.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DUSK. 
