JERRY MAGUIRE 
JERRY MAGUIRE 
EARTH FROM SPACE 
The blue marble as seen from space.  We hear the calm voice of Jerry Maguire, talking just to us. 
JERRY'S VOICE Airight so this is the world and there are five billion people on it.  When I was a kid there were three.  It's hard to keep up. 
AMERICA FROM SPACE 
The great continent through mist and swirling skies. (Satellites and other pieces of skycasting equipment float by.) 
JERRY'S VOICE That's better.  That's america. See, America still sets the tone for the world... 
KID ON BASKETBALL COURT 
A puberty-ravaged kid dribbles a basketball, stares straight at us. 
JERRY'S VOICE In Indiana -- Clark Hodd.  13. The best point guard in the country. Puberty hasn't been easy. 
Discreetly, his hand slips into his pants and scratches. 
Girl on a high dive she's poised.  A faraway look in her eyes. 
JERRY'S VOICE (continuing) Becky Farling.  You'll see her in the next Olympics. 
She launches her dive into mid-air, into nothingness. 
ON TEENAGE GIRL BOXER 
throwing punches toward the camera. 
JERRY'S VOICE Seattle, Washington.  Dallas Malloy. Went to court to be allowed to box professionally. She's 16. 
ON A YOUNG BASEBALL PLAYER 
at bat. 
JERRY'S VOICE Art Stallings, Indio, California. Check out what pure joy looks like. 
He swats a pitch -- not out of the park, it's much sweeter than that.  He drills it over the first baseman's head, just out of reach of his glove. Art runs to first, laughing.  Pats the first baseman's butt.  Gotcha. 
ON GOLDEN BOY QUARTERBACK -- FRANK CUSHMAN 
A line of NFL scouts watch a dazzling pass from a future star. 
JERRY'S VOICE In Odessa, Texas, the great Frank Cushman.  Cush is 20. Quarterback, role model, my client. He'll probably go number one in the draft this year. 
Cush turns into a closer shot.  He's a living magazine cover. 
A YOUNG CHAMPIONSHIP GOLFER 
eyeing a long but level putt. 
JERRY'S VOICE There's genius everywhere, but until they turn pro, it's like popcorn in the pan. Some pop... 
The kid misses the shot, whips his club at his coach. 
JERRY'S VOICE (continuing) ...  some don't. 
Hold on the kid, he's all youthful adrenalin, breathing hard. Portrait of an intense young competitor. 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. NFL OWNERS MEETING/PALM DESERT FOUR SEASONS -- DAY 
A wall of new NFL merchandise.  Television monitors blink with the latest endorsement films. Into frame moves JERRY MAGUIRE, 35.  He walks briskly and smoothly, yellow legal tablet in hand, at home in this lobby filled with Athletes and Sports Team Owners.  We hear Herb Alpert's epic instrumental, "The Lonely Bull." 
JERRY'S VOICE Now I'm the guy you don't usually see. I'm the one behind the scenes.  I'm the sports agent. 
INT. NFL OWNER'S MEETING LOBBY -- MINUTES LATER 
Jerry sits in a red leather chair, across from an agitated General Manager.  He cooly works out figures on a yellow legal tablet. 
JERRY Easy now, we can spread these numbers over five years... 
JERRY'S VOICE You know those photos where the new player holds up the team jersey and poses with the owner? 
Flash of photo 
Anonymous Athlete holds up jersey, standing next to Team Owner. Zoom in on someone's shirt-sleeve on left of frame. 
JERRY'S VOICE (continuing) That's me on the left. 
ON ANONYMOUS NEWPORT BEACH BUILDING 
JERRY'S VOICE Inside that building, that's where I work.  Sports Management International. 
There is a direct line from the deepest part of him to the words he's typing.  His fingers fly.  Even his eyes grow moist. 
JERRY'S VOICE What started out as one page became twenty-five. Suddenly I was my father's son.  I was remembering the simple pleasures of this job, how I ended up here out of law school, the way a stadium sounds when one of my players performs well on the field... I was remembering even the words of the late Dicky Fox, the original sports agent, who said: 
SHOT OF DICKY FOX 
DICKY FOX The key to this job is personal relationships. 
As Jerry continues typing, his voice is excited now. 
JERRY'S VOICE And suddenly it was all pretty clear. The answer was fewer clients.  Caring for them, caring for ourselves, and the games too. Starting our lives, really. 
SHOT OF SENTENCE:  We must embrace what is still virginal about our own enthusiasm, we must crack open the tightly clenched fist and give back a little for the common good, we must simply be the best versions of ourselves... that goodness will be unbeatable and the money will appear. 
He pauses, and wipes his eyes, still considering the sentence. 
JERRY'S VOICE (continuing) Hey, I'll be the first to admit it. What I was writing was somewhat "touchy feely." 
He deletes it.  And then -- zip -- he restores it and continues on, boldly. 
JERRY'S VOICE (continuing) I didn't care.  I had lost the ability to bullshit.  It was the me I'd always wanted to be. 
INT. KINKO'S COPIES -- NIGHT 
Jerry in T-shirt stands proudly watching copies pumped out. Wired college students, band guys, other Copy People of the Night nearby. 
JERRY'S VOICE I printed it up in the middle of the night, before I could re-think it. 
Industrial, multi-pierced Kinko's copy guy examines the first printed copy of the Mission Statement.  He nods approvingly, taps his heart in tribute.  He slides a copy across the counter, for Jerry's approval. 
THE THINGS WE THINK AND DO NOT SAY (The Future of Our Business) 
KINKO'S GUY That's how you become great, man. You hang your ba11s out there. 
Jerry nods.  It's 3 AM, and this guy sounds and looks like a prophet.  In fact, everyone in Kinko's at 3 AM does. 
JERRY (self-effacing) Thanks. 
ON MEMOS 
being stuffed into mail-slots. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM -- MORNING 
Jerry splashes water onto his face.  The sun is coming up. He looks younger, lighter. 
ON TV MOVIE  (JERRY WATCHING) 
Suddenly, dramatic movie score.  It's Dana Andrews, showing Gene Tierney the newspaper reports of her death in Laura. ("Someone was murdered in this room last night... any idea who it was?")  Camera whips to Jerry, standing watching as he packs.  A slight concern on his face.  He moves to the phone, and dials with urgency. 
JERRY Hi, it's jerry maguire.  Uh, listen did those manuscripts get... Oh they did... No no no no no, that's fine... 
INT. ELEVATOR -- DAY 
JERRY Jerry in suit, alone with his luggage.  Dry throat. clammy, holds onto the handrail to steady himself. 
INT. LOBBY -- DAY 
The lobby is filled with SMI agents.  The blue Mission Statement is in evidence everywhere.  Jerry inconspicuously turns the corner, yearns to blend in.  It's impossible, the recognition ripples through the lobby.  Underling agent BOB SUGAR, 25, is the first to grab Maguire by the shoulders. ("Finally, someone said it!") Suddenly another agent begins to clap, then reluctantly, another. Soon, the ovation rocks the lobby.  (In a three-shot near the front desk, we see a 26 year-old female employee of SMI applauding with Mission Statement in hand, her sleepy son at her side.)  Jerry motions for them all to stop, but clearly he could listen forever. It is a watershed moment in his life. 
JERRY'S VOICE I was 35.  I had started my life. 
Swing off Maguire to find two agents standing clapping enthusiastically near the elevator. One offers gum to the other. 
AGENT # 1 (RACHEL) How long you give him? 
AGENT # 2 (CHRIS) Mmmm.  A week. 
ON AIRPLANE WHEELS 
folding up into a plane, as music and credits end. 
INT. AIRPLANE/FIRST CLASS -- NIGHT 
We move past a snoring businessman, onto tired but adrenalized Jerry Maguire.  He sits in first-class, working on his laptop, a pile of newspapers and magazines nearby. The WOMAN PASSENGER next to him, 3oish, finishes up a spicy phone conversation with her boyfriend. 
WOMAN Monkeyface... monkeyface, listen... I'm not going to say it here.... no... 
Jerry continues to work, as his laptop now beeps.  Battery's low. 
WOMAN (continuing) ...  oh listen, I got you the perfect white shirt, at this out of the way place... no... quit trying to make me say it! 
Jerry shuts off his laptop and prepares for sleep.  Trying not to listen. 
WOMAN (continuing) how about if I do it and don't say it... mmmm... see you soon... 
She laughs seductively and hangs up.  She is still buzzed from the conversation.  Jerry turns to her, surprising her. 
JERRY I have to ask. 
JERRY But wait... 
BACK TO DOROTHY 
She is now craning out into the aisle to hear this story. The plane is now quieter.  She listens to the easy sound of Jerry discussing his charmed life. 
RAY (waking up) Mama -- 
DOROTHY Shhh.  Mommy's eavesdropping. 
He sneezes, three big ones in a row.  She hands him more kleenex, riveted on the story.  And listens. 
JERRY'S VOICE Now little do I know that my assistant. has assumed that I've now proposed. So she has gotten the lounge band to actually play "Here Comes The Bride" when we walk back in. 
Dorothy laughs to herself, somewhat derisively.  She tries to share the laugh with her son, who stares at her. 
BACK TO JERRY -- LATER 
JERRY Which they do.  And we're standing there. All the football guys are in the lobby, watching, there's even an ESPN crew.  So I turn to her and sort of grandly say, "Well, this is me, Klutz, asking you, Goddess of Rock Climbing, to marry me." And I took out the ring, and I don't much like big scenes, but she said "yes" right there in the lobby and some of the toughest men in football wept like babies.  We're getting married in February. 
WOMAN Jerry.  You two will be together forever. 
BACK TO DOROTHY 
She takes one of her son's kleenex sheets, as an elegant Flight Attendant shuts the curtain to first class. Dorothy blows her nose, moved against her will. 
RAY What's wrong, mom? 
DOROTHY First class is what's wrong.  It used to be a better meal.  Now it's a better life. 
She pulls out the Mission Statement,  aware that she's been listening to its author.  She opens it and begins to read. 
INT. LAX AIRPORT TERMINAL -- MORNING 
Jerry Maguire exits the plane a few steps behind Bobbi Fallon. 
JERRY (quietly, like a coach) You'll know when you see him. You'll know when you see him. 
Bobbi scans the crowd. She spots Monkeyface, large and burly in tiger-print sweats.  He looks like Mickey Dolenz.  He holds flowers. 
WOMAN Oh my God, you're right.  I know. (Jerry smiles) He's not The One.  He's not the One. 
Jerry's face falls.  Bobbi Fallon moves into the embrace, faking it.  Jerry moves ahead, turning back to see the doomed couple. Melancholy now, he continues forward through the crowded airport and the expectant faces of those waiting for loved ones.  Music. 
INT. LUGGAGE AREA -- MORNING 
Dorothy looks through the rubber flaps of the luggage conveyor belt.  She clutches a cup of coffee.  In the background, other SMI agents' grab their bags and exit. 
DOROTHY Ray! Ray! 
Maguire enters picture, joining her as she looks into the dark depths behind the flaps. 
JERRY Can I help? 
DOROTHY Oh.  Hi.  I work in your office. I was on the junket to the conference. I'm -- 
JERRY I know who y6u are.  You're Dorothy Boyd.  You're in... wait... you're in Accounts.  You have the middle cubicle toward the back with that poster of Albert Einstein morphed onto Shaquille 0 Neal's body. 
DOROTHY (surprised) Hmm.  Pretty good. 
JERRY Now what did you lose? 
DOROTHY My son... my mind... 
Over her shoulder, Maguire sees Ray rounding the corner, riding the luggage conveyor belt like Washington crossing the Delaware. 
JERRY Well, while I go look for him, why don't you hang onto this curious gentleman behind you -- 
Dorothy turns, is greatly relieved to see Ray, and snatches him off the belt.  She bends down into his face.  She speaks softly but intensely, with no frills. 
DOROTHY Remember "imagination?"... remember what that means?  Well, this is one of my bosses so you will now IMAGINE me screaming at you right now. Do NOT do that again.  Ever ever EVER. 
She rises, shifting back to being a somewhat relaxed young woman of 26.  It's a transition she makes, oh, 500 times a day. 
DOROTHY (continuing) Well, thanks. 
JERRY Well, take care. 
DOROTHY And have fun at your bachelor party. 
Jerry pauses just a moment, but it's long enough.  Dorothy freezes. 
DOROTHY (continuing) Oh no. 
JERRY No no. I knew. 
DOROTHY (slow sigh) Nnnnn.  I just killed the surprise. 
JERRY No, I'm just... anxiously looking past it.  I already had my bachelor party.  It was called "my twenties." See you later. 
She makes a pissed-off sound.  She then walks over, taking his shoulders and bending them forward.  She is an expert at body manipulation, loosening him as she talks. 
AVERY Jerry.  Your buddy Dooler worked his ass off to make you a tribute film. All those guys from the office are coming.  Everybody loves you.  Just calm down, relax, act surprised, and have an amazing time.  And you'll never guess who narrates your bachelor movie. 
INT. FANCY HOTEL SUITE -- NIGHT 
Jerry enters the hotel suite and over-acts surprise.  He falls down, clutching his heart, feigning an attack. He looks around for a bigger reaction than he actually gets. 
THE FILM -- SHOWN ON BIG-SCREEN T.V. 
It is hosted by MICHAEL JORDAN. 
MICHAEL JORDAN I have often wondered where my career would have been had Jerry Maguire been my agent.  The answer -- Yugoslavia. 
Tepid laughs, as many of the agents turn and grab furtive looks at Maguire, who stands at the back of the room with his friend BILL DOOLER.  Dooler, husky, 30, looks like a beatnik on steroids. 
DOOLER You hear those courtesy laughs, Jerry? There is a seething wrongness at the edges of this party. 
JERRY Oh come on -- 
DOOLER This is fuckin Michael Jordan, man! They should be screaming. 
JERRY (eying crowd) You're imagining it. 
They are joined by unctuous agent Bob Sugar.  Sugar is a Maguire wannabee.  Puts an arm on Jerry's shoulder. 
SUGAR We still having lunch tomorrow, Jerry?  Looks like Carl Denton tested positive for marijuana. That moves Cush solidly up to numero uno in the draft. 
DOOLER Oh, that'll really help this party! Let's all talk business! 
JERRY Dooler, you know Bob Sugar. 
SUGAR (smoothly) The best commercial director in the business.  I hail you. 
DOOLER Sorry I yelled.  You have exquisite taste. 
SUGAR Everybody's having a great time. You're both nuts -- the movie's great. 
Sugar moves on, cheerfully. 
DOOLER I like that guy. 
(The movie, which plays simultaneously with the conversation, is a Hi-8 confessional of Jerry's former girlfriends. MICHAEL JORDAN is cut into this, nodding, as if he were actually interviewing.  The effect is funny, but the confessions are brutally honest.  There is The One He Was Too Good For, The One He Wasn't Good Enough For ("He hated being alone.") The Still in Love Girlfriend, The Punk Rock girlfriend ("Sports makes me ill"), The Now Married With Kids Girlfriend, The Cynical Girlfriend ("Beneath the cute exterior, more cute exterior.") The Purely Sexual Girlfriend, The Brainy Girlfriend, ("Great at friendship, bad at intimacy") and even the Girlfriend Who Does A Great Jerry Imitation (rubbing her face, she does a flawless Jerry-on-his- way-to-the-airport).  All seem to agree on some basic points (and if necessary maybe Jordan narrates the following information to underscore it.)  Jerry always has a girlfriend, and many met him on the first day he'd broken up with the last one.  The relationship always competes with his job, and the job always wins.  The final confrontation happens somewhere around the 18-month mark. Sequence ends with Avery in character, wielding a blowtorch, threatening to burn all these old phone numbers.) 
JERRY (wounded good sport) ... this is... uh... too funny... 
DOOLER They ain't laughing, man. Something's wrong. 
Jerry nods, takes a swig of beer.  He knows the response is little more than polite.  None of the other agents can keep eye contact with him.  Dooler is right.  On the screen, the finale features a good-humored collage of Jerry photos, cut to music. 
INT. SMI OFFICE -- DAY 
Elevator doors open.  Maguire is now paranoid.  He walks through the buzzing SMI headquarters, heading for his corner office.  He is like an FBI man searching treetops and corners for the Gunman. Everywhere he looks is a potential Grassy Knoll. 
He passes Fellow Agents, always smiling, giving a word of encouragement to an Agent having an emotional hallway conversation with an Athlete, even bends down to check the sheet of slides being approved by a very large but seated Basketball Player. Moving forward. There is trouble in the air, but only he seems to sense it.  He turns corner and is met by assistant WENDY, who hands him a long list of calls. The sheet flaps against his leg as she moves with him toward his back office. 
WENDY (as in 'get ready') Marcee's here.  She's already in your office. 
JERRY Thanks, Wendy. 
INT. JERRY MAGUIRE'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Jerry enters his corner office overlooking both the shiny waters of Newport Beach and a large mall parking lot. Already standing, reading the mail on his desk is lively MARCEE TIDWELL, 25. African-American, gorgeous, a heat-seeking smartbomb.  She is also five months pregnant. 
JERRY Marcee.  How's my favorite player's wife? 
MARCEE Jerry, Rod is very very upset. Tyson, no! 
Across the room, 4 year-old menace TYSON ceases trying to pry a plexiglass case off the wall. 
JERRY Tyson, hello. 
Tyson just stares at Jerry.  Jerry has little luck with kids. He gives Marcee a quick peck and heads for the fridge.  He grabs a two-pint bottle of orange Gatorade -- another habit -- and sits down at his desk.  He slips into crisis mode like an old shirt. 
JERRY (continuing) How can I make your life better? 
MARCEE I know you say to take the Arizona offer, but my husband needs more recognition. (more) 
MARCEE (cont'd) He is the biggest, fastest, raddest wide-receiver in the league.  Now I don't know what you do for your four-percent 
--The door opens, Bob Sugar pokes his head in. 
SUGAR Cronin's okay for lunch? 
JERRY Marcee -- this is one of our agents. This is Bob Sugar, who needs to learn to knock. 
SUGAR Pleasure. 
MARCEE You've called our house, right? 
Jerry tries to move briskly down the street, through the lunchtime businessmen traffic. Back to the office. 
INT. CRONIN'S -- DAY 
Sugar dines alone now.  Casually whips out a portable phone. 
INT. SMI ELEVATOR -- DAY 
Jerry in the elevator, eyes wide, mind racing.  Dorothy Boyd sees him, raises a hand to say hello.  Decides this is not a good time. 
INT. SMI OFFICE -- DAY 
Close on Maguire as he moves through the office, heading to the back office.  Music 
INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Maguire rolls the fax machine over to his desk.  He takes a breath, and begins to go to work. From within his bottom drawer, he withdraws a Powerbook.  Then from another drawer, a phone book. And then from his inner jacket pocket, a third smaller phone book. They are lined in front of him now, as he dials. 
INT. CUSHMAN HOME/ODESSA -- DAY 
Frank "Cush" Cushman picks up the phone.  Today, the young football God wears a yellow scarf on his head. He's still playing NBA Jam on his Gameboy' as he talks. 
EXT. CRONIN'S -- DAY 
Sugar at the table.  Chameleon-like, he adopts the personality of whomever he talks to. 
SUGAR Cush.  Hey Dudeboy!  It's Bob Sugar. Listen, I'm callin' ya first 'cause you're the most important guy in sports... 
INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Maguire on the telephone, fighting hard, as he feeds a fax into the machine at the same time. 
JERRY Carla, right now you're paying 25% of your endorsments to SMI, I would cut my commission by 7%... 
As he talks, he takes a stack of his Mission Statements, once proudly set on his desk, and sentences them to the bottom drawer. 
EXT. STREET -- DAY 
Sugar strolls back to the office, talking on the portable. 
SUGAR You read that memo I snuck to you, the guy's tired of the job.  Tired of making you money. 
INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Maguire feeds a fax, types another fax on his Powerbook, all while he talks quickly on the phone. 
JERRY And when I got you that big contract in Chicago, and the fan poll in the Sun-Times was 93% against you, who went and found you that sympathetic journalist who turned it all around, it was me... 
INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Several other agents working the cause behind Sugar, who breezes through the calls. 
SUGAR He's costing you money, Debra... he's oldschool. 
INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Jerry on the toilet.  Not a minute to spare. 
JERRY SMI represents all three quarterbacks on your team, where's their loyalty going to be?  You stay with me, I'd fight for YOU alone.  You'd be my only client on that team... 
INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- DAY 
SUGAR I've got the clients.  I've got the juice. 
INT. SMI OFFICE -- DAY 
Dorothy walks the center hallway with some contracts.  To the right and left of her are the phones are ringing. 
Something is amiss. She stops at the desk of fellow Accounts Exec CLEO, 32. 
DOROTHY What's going on? 
CLEO (no big deal) They fired Jerry Maguire.  Did it at Cronin's. 
Dorothy groans softly, as she lowers herself into her seat. She is strangely affected by the news. She scoots back on her roller chair, and looks down the hallway to Maguire's office door. 
INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY 
The pace has accelerated. 
JERRY -- personal attention -- 
INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Sugar talks faster. 
SUGAR -- more money, more endorsements -- 
INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY 
TIDWELL Exactly.  And I'm sitting here with an ant problem, look!  And my brother Tee Pee's room is flooded with water.  Say hello to Jerry Maguire -- 
We meet the messy-haired and slightly overweight brother of Tidwell, TEE PEE, 24.  Tee Pee, who lives free of charge in Rod's house, is a nakedly jealous and more political version of his brother.  He says into the phone: 
TEE PEE Hello Jerry Maguire. 
Tidwell takes the phone back, and continues through the house, with Tee Pee now following the procession of family monitoring the important call. 
TIDWELL --  the house is fallin' apart, we don't even know where we're gonna live in a year, and I'm supposed to be a "superstar," man!  Are you catching my flow, here? 
Jerry looks at his watch.  Doomed. 
JERRY I need a decision from you, Rod. 
INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- NIGHT 
Sugar has three phones going. 
SUGAR Killer, Steve, good decision. (next call) So it's yes, right?  Excellente. (next call) Tell me it's yes... yes?  YES! 
Tidwell enters bedroom.  Marcee, Tyson and Tee Pee in tow. 
TIDWELL --  now to recap, I want to stay in Arizona, I want my new contract, I like you, you're nice to my wife, I will stay with you, that's what I'm doing for you, but here's what you're gonna do for me. You listening? 
JERRY (dying) Mmm.  Hmm. 
TIDWELL It's a very personal, very important thing.  It's a family motto.  So I want to share it with you.  You ready? 
JERRY Yes. 
TIDWELL Here it is.  "Show me the money." (pause) Show.  Me.  The.  Money. 
JERRY I got it. 
TIDWELL Now doesn't that just make you feel good to say it?  Say it with me. 
The lights have gone down in the city, and he hasn't had a chance to turn his own light on.  He sits in the oncoming darkness, watching the blinking white lights on the phone bank on the desk. 
JERRY Show.  Me.  The.  Money. 
TIDWELL Congratulations.  You're still my agent. 
Tidwell hangs up.  Feeling good about the decision, he enters his closet and adds today's shoes to an enormous shoe collection. Nearby, Tee Pee shakes his head. 
TEE PEE An African-American man running with a little ball, working for white owners and white agents. It's the iconography of rascism... (off Tidwell's dismissive look) ... but I woulda stayed at the bigger company. 
INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Sugar crosses the last call off his sheet, and throws himself on the sofa.  He lands in reclining mode with a soft pooof. The younger turks watch their new leader.  Victory is his. 
INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- NIGHT 
Jerry stands at the door, holding some belongings.  He looks back and symbolically flips the light switch off. Unfortunately he hasn't realized the lights are already off. So, in his final gesture, surprising himself, he has weirdly turned the lights on. 
EXT. CORNER OFFICE -- NIGHT 
Bam.  Jerry's door opens.  He exits his office with box.  He is now in a state of advancing melancholy, slightly unhinged. Many of the other agents now try not to watch him leaving. 
JERRY Well, don't worry!  I'm not going to do what you think I'm going to do, which is FLIP OUT! 
JERRY (continuing) 
Jerry goes to a water dispenser, calming himself, and fills a small Dixie cup.  Downs it and fills it again, rubbing his face.. 
JERRY (continuing) But let me just say, as I ease out of the office I helped build -- sorry, but it's a fact -- 
ON DOROTHY -- WATCHING 
from her cubicle. 
JERRY -- that there is such a thing as manners.  A way of treating people... 
He notices the fish tank nearby. He attemps to be profound. 
JERRY (continuing) These fish have manners!  They have manners. 
And now Jerry feels bravado, mixed with a wave of anger. Another cup of water as he finds power. 
JERRY (continuing) In fact.  They're coming with me! I'm starting a new company, and the fish will come with me and... you can call me sentimental. 
He begins dipping into the tank, grabbing the one exotic fish that failed to escape his cup. It's a fire-tailed Peruvian beauty.  He grabs a baggie from an assistant's desk, shakes out some crumbs, and dumps the fish inside. 
JERRY (continuing; to fish) it's okay... it's okay... 
Nearby, a Xerox Repair Guy watches the human train wreck. 
JERRY (continuing) But if anybody else wants to come with me, this moment will be the ground floor of something real and fun and inspiring and true in this godforsaken business and we will do it together!  Who's coming with me besides... "Flipper" here? 
But clearly even Flipper is not happy with the new arrangement. Panicked, he whips around the small baggie. 
FADE TO 
EXT. DOROTHY'S HOME -- NIGHT 
Lights glow inside this small-but-cozy home on a side street in Manhattan Beach. Windows open.  The sound of women's voices. 
INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
A living room filled with ten earnest, talkative Divorced Women. This is their talk group.  We meet JAN, 30, who speaks shyly, thoughtfully, covering her braces often as she speaks. She holds a too-full glass of red wine.  (Much of the talk in this Women's Group will be improved by our cast of actresses) 
JAN I love men.  I respect men.  But that doesn't change the fact that most of them belong in cages... 
The other nine women nod with deep understanding. 
INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT 
Dorothy does the dishes.  Across the room, Laurel has her nightly cigarette, blowing smoke out the window.  She is a no- frills woman. She has some time ago shut off those aspects of her life spent pursuing the opposite sex.  They are in mid- argument. 
LAUREL What about medical? 
DOROTHY Of course, medical! 
LAUREL (unconvinced) You are a single mother.  You have given up the right to be frivolous. 
DOROTHY (irritated) If you'd read what he wrote, you would have left with him too. 
LAUREL (more irritated) You know how much those Well Child exams cost -- 
DOROTHY (overlapping) Of course I know -- 
LAUREL/DOROTHY A hundred and fifty dollars. 
LAUREL And that's just when he's well -- 
They talk over each other arguing for a moment and then: 
DOROTHY Wait. Where is he? 
LAUREL He's in the living room asleep. 
Dorothy dries her hands, flicking in a hurry. 
DOROTHY Wonderful.  Next time you lecture me, don't leave my little boy in a room with your Divorced Women's Group... 
She exits in a hurry, as Laurel throws her cigarette into the garbage disposal.  She has a hard time saying this, so she says it so nobody can hear: 
LAUREL Sorry. 
INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
Ray dreams sweetly in the middle of this rockbed of Women's Woes. Dorothy strokes his head, as she plucks him up.  In frame another woman, ALICE, 50, speaks passionately to the group. 
ALICE Okay I've finally, finally, gotten my anger straight here.  I'm going to visualize Carl being here and finally tell him -- 
DOROTHY Shhhh! 
Dorothy exits, protectively stroking her son's head. 
DOROTHY (continuing) Come on, buddy, we're going to bed. 
INT. HALLWAY-- NIGHT 
She stops for a moment, little boy in her hands.  The enormity of the day arrives with a thud. 
DOROTHY (to herself) What did I do? 
INT. JERRY'S CONDO -- NIGHT 
Jerry is quickly packing for a road trip.  Avery looks on. They are both in a manic state. 
JERRY The power move is to go unannounced. (sotto) Black suit, right? 
AVERY (sotto) And the egyptian cotton shirt that works with or without the jacket. (full volume) Tell me again, how was it left with Cush? 
JERRY (perfect imitation) "Dad says we gwan sleep on it. 
AVERY Ugh! 
JERRY (turns, with clothes) Seventy-two clients.  ONE stayed. (sotto) Jacket on, tie in pocket. 
AVERY (sotta) Good. (full volume) They're all heatseekers!  All of them, everybody. You keep one superstar and they'll all follow. There's no real loyalty, and the first person who told me that, Jerry Maguire, was you. 
JERRY I think I was trying to sleep with you at the time. 
AVERY Well, it worked, and I will not let you fail.  You are Jerry Ma- fuckin-guire. 
JERRY That's right. 
AVERY King of the Housecalls! Master of the Living Room! 
Jerry drives back on the same bumpy road.  On the radio, it's the Rolling Stones.  He wants to sing along.  He thinks he knows the words, but... 
JERRY (sings) Feelin... 
He realizes he doesn't know the words at all. He switches channels. Finds a Rush song, with ornate lyrics.  No one will ever know what the words are.  He switches again and finds "Let's Groove Tonight" by Earth, Wind and Fire. Excellent. He begins singing nonsense noises, passionately.  Switches again.  All he wants is to sing along with a song he knows. Finally he finds Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers' "Refugee." He drives through the countryside, singing the call and response of the song, like a happy idiot. 
INT. DALLAS/FT. WORTH AIRPORT -- DAY 
Jerry turns into shot.  He's on the pay-phone.  He's jacked. 
JERRY Dorothy? Jerry Maguire!  Is Avery there? Where can I reach her? 
INTERCUT 
INT. DOROTHY/LAUREL'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Dorothy is at her home work desk.  Curious and nervous about the new arrangement. 
DOROTHY Uh, she had to fly to Atlanta, didn't leave me her hotel number. 
Through the back kitchen door comes CHAD THE NANNY, 29, red hair cropped above the ear. Baggy overalls.  Slipping through life with little turbulence.  He's with Ray, who holds pieces of wood and a hammer. 
CHAD The new playhouse rocks, Dotty. 
RAY (jumping) Yeah! 
DOROTHY Honey -- later, okay? (Ray jumps on her) Whoop.  Wait. 
JERRY Hello? 
DOROTHY (back to phone) Sorry, that's my son and the nanny. I had the calls transferred to my home so I could go over your stuff. 
Chad now notices the slight excited tone in her demeanor.  He sits down nearby and listens to her talk to Maguire. 
JERRY No, that's fine.  What calls came in today? 
DOROTHY Wait.  That's yesterday, from the other office. Today is... 
She flips the call record from yesterday --150 calls -- to today, which is blank. 
DOROTHY (continuing) ... light. 
JERRY Shit, it's just so frustrating to not be able to talk to Avery -- 
AVERY Wait a minute, it has to be one of the NFL hotels we do business with -- let me look -- but in the meantime, about this job -- 
She reaches over Ray to get to her laptop and buzzes through a list of phone numbers.  Jerry can't help but share the qood news: 
JERRY (importantly) Dorothy, let me tell you something, we are back. We are so very very back.  I re-signed Cush. We're set. 
DOROTHY We are? 
JERRY It's all going to work. 
DOROTHY I just got goosebumps. 
She examines her own skin with surprise. 
JERRY (manic, quiet) It's all going to work.  We're going to save the world. 
DOROTHY Well, I'm happy for you. 
JERRY Happy for us. 
Oddly, the phrase affects her physically. 
DOROTHY Happy for us... okay.  Here's the number. 404-453-2222. 
JERRY Thanks. 
DOROTHY Call me later, hon. 
She hangs up, and looks over to Laurel and Chad. Both of them stare at her. 
DOROTHY (continuing) Wait.  Did I just say "hon" to him? 
CHAD (laughing) Yeah, Dotty. You did. 
DOROTHY Twenty six years old.  I'm already saying "hon". Hug your mother quickly -- 
Chad looks at her, something is different about Dorothy. Laurel walks away, sharing a look with Chad. 
INT. DALLAS AIRPORT -- DAY 
Jerry is now teeming with energy, professional and sexual. 
JERRY Avery, I signed Cush.  Again. 
INTERCUT 
ON TV MONITOR -- ROY FIRESTONE 
is leaning forward, expressively, talking with a weepy athlete. 
INT. RED CARPET LOUNGE -- DAY 
Tidwell watches next to Jerry, as they wait for the flight. Jerry nurses a stiff drink. 
TIDWELL Everybody on this show cries now. 
JERRY Rod -- 
TIDWELL (off t.v. ) You feel bad you tested positive? Quit doing blow!  You feel bad about your baby girl? Why did you leave the mother? 
JERRY What are you doing with me, Rod? 
TIDWELL Huh? 
JERRY Don't you even see -- I'm finished. I'm fucked. Twenty-four hours ago, I was hot. Now... I'm a cautionary tale! 
Tidwell looks at Jerry, impassive. 
JERRY (continuing) See this jacket I'm wearing?  You like it?  I don't really need it, because I'm CLOAKED IN FAILURE. I lost the number one draft pick the night before the draft. They will teach my story to other agents on "do not do this" day in agent school. Why? Let's recap. Because a hockey player's kid made me feel like a superficial jerk, I had two slices of bad pizza, went to bed, grew a conscience and wrote a 25-page Manifesto of Doom! 
TIDWELL Well, boo-fucking-hoo. 
JERRY The least you could do is nod and act sympathetic -- 
TIDWELL (shaking head) No. 
JERRY It's a quality that might come in handy for a commercial sometime. 
TIDWELL You are not allowed to act this way. 
JERRY Why not? 
INT. AIRPLANE -- LATER DAY 
They sit together. Jerry holds another drink. 
TIDWELL Man, I got a shelf life of ten years, tops!  My next contract's gotta bring me the dollars that'11 last me and mine a very long time. I'm out of this sport in five years.  What's my family gonna live on? What you get me.  So I don't want to hear about ya shit, your "nya nya nya." 
JERRY (ruefully, to attendant) Another drink please. 
TIDWELL Anybody else would have left you by now, but I'm sticking with you. I said I would. And if I got to ride your ass like Zorro, you're gonna show me the money. 
JERRY (the hell that never ends) Oh my God. 
He looks straight ahead, at the airphone in front of him. 
EXT. PORCH -- NIGHT 
Dorothy finds Laurel on their small porch.  There is only room for a miniature garden and one comfortable seat. Laurel sits in it. 
DOROTHY He's coming over. 
LAUREL At eleven at night? 
DOROTHY He just lost his best client.  He called from the plane.  I invited the guy over. 
LAUREL Dotty -- this is not "guy.". This is a "syndrome."  It's called Early Midlife, About-To-Marry, Hanging Onto The-Bottom-Rung Dear- God-Don't-Let-Me-Be-Alone, I'll- Call-My-Newly Long-suffering- Assistant-Without Medical-For- Company Syndrome.  And if, knowing all that, you still allow him to come over, more power to you. 
DOROTHY Honey, he's engaged.  And for the first time in my professional life, I'm a part of something I believe in. 
Dorothy exits.  Laurel shakes her head, calls to next room. 
LAUREL Okay, but he better not be good looking! 
INT. RAY'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
Dorothy puts Ray to bed. 
DOROTHY 'Night buddy.  This is my favorite part of your head. 
She kisses the corner of his forehead, rising up into the mirror. 
She checks her look, in spite of herself. Visible on the wall above Ray's bed, is her ex-husband's photo. Music. 
INT. CAB -- NIGHT 
Jerry in back of a cab, wearing sunglasses, three drinks later, post-flight, rolling with anything. 
JERRY Okay, turn here!  Sharp right turn. 8831 3/4 Waterloo. 
The cab turns onto a very small street.  Cars parked on both sides. Down the street, another pair of headlights. 
Jerry's cab refuses to give in, in fact he floors it.  Same with the oncoming car. 
JERRY (continuing) Yes, good, floor it, kill us!! 
EXT. HOUSE/WINDOW OUTSIDE LAUNDRY ROOM -- NIGHT 
Now camera starts to move around the house, from this window showing the two sisters in the laundry room, to the living room where Jerry sits alone.  We see Ray wander into the room and stare at Jerry. 
INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
Jerry, who is playing with a kaleidoscope on the table, looks up to see Ray. 
RAY Hi. 
JERRY Hi Ray. 
INT. LAUNDRY ROOM -- SAME TIME 
LAUREL All I'm saying.  You don't have the luxury of falling for some drowning man.  Be practical.  Now. Which top? 
She holds up two tops.  One is sexier with a dipped down front. The other is striped, cute, functional. 
DOROTHY Okay, you want to talk about practical? Let's talk about my wonderful life. Do you know what most other women my age are doing right now? They are partying in clubs, trying to act stupid, trying to get a man, trying to keep a man... not me. I'm trying to RAISE a man. 
She grabs the sexier top, and puts it on. 
DOROTHY (continuing) I've got a 24 hour a day reminder of Roger, for the rest of my life. I have had three lovers in four years, all boring, all achingly self-sufficient all friends of yours I might add, and all of them running a distant second to a warm bath.  Look at me, Laurel, look at me.  I'm the oldest 26 year old in the world!  How do I look? 
LAUREL Good. 
DOROTHY Thanks. 
INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
Jerry and Ray have a great conversation, playing tug with a piece of rope. 
RAY And then my dad died and my mom took me to the zoo and I love the zoo. Do you hate the zoo or do you love the zoo? 
JERRY Wait.  I want to tell you more about my dad. 
RAY Let's go the zoo. 
JERRY Okay.  I've been hogging it. You're right. (more) 
JERRY (cont'd) All my life I've been trying to talk, really talk, and no one wants to listen.  You know that feeling? 
Ray nods vigorously. 
RAY Let's go right now.  Let's go to the zoo. 
JERRY Aw, the fucking thing... I mean, the zoo is closed. 
RAY You said "fuck". 
JERRY Yeah I know.  I did. 
Ray loves this guy.  He pats Jerry's knee. 
RAY I won't tell. 
JERRY We'll go to the zoo sometime. Okay? I think I might have some time on my hands. 
Ray looks at Jerry's hands. 
RAY I don't see any. 
JERRY (points respectfully) Funny. 
RAY Funny... (imitates him) (hears mom approaching) I better go to bed. 
Ray hugs Jerry and exits.  Jerry sits contemplating the kid for a moment.  The door swings open and a harried Dorothy appears in the sexier top, but with a distinctly less sexy attitude, and a tray. 
DOROTHY Drinks.  Food.  Plus, I called you a cab. 
JERRY (slightly confused) Good idea.  Thank you. 
And we should keep our voices down a little.  I have a little boy asleep. 
JERRY (continuing) Right.  Of course. 
Jerry tries to twist open the beer, ripping at his palm. It's not a twist-off.  She hands him an opener.  He opens it, inelegantly. 
DOROTHY So.  Our company. 
She watches the drunken man, who drinks. Then coughs a little. Then stands. 
JERRY Okay.  Lil' speech before I go. 
He gets up, woozy, but loose.  Powerfully: 
JERRY (continuing) Do.  Not.  Worry.  About.  Your. Job. (beat) Our company is in good shape. You and your son... we... are just fine.  You still have a job. I want you to feel confident!  In. Me.  And I have a problem with people who talk about themselves in the third person, but let me tell you something about Jerry Maguire. 
His confidence nicely fueled, Jerry reaches for a fireplace poker. He begins to joust with an imaginary opponent. 
Jerry stands in pre-season locker-room.   Off-stage we hear a shower.  In the b.g., one of those locker-room psych-up signs like: Injuries happen first in the mind. 
JERRY I started talking with Dennis Wilburn about your renegotation. 
Rod emerges naked, dripping wet, pissed. 
TIDWELL Did you tell him about the "ten million for four years?" 
JERRY Uh, not today, but -- 
TIDWELL John Taylor.  J.J. Stokes.  Andre Rison.  I SMOKE all these fools, and yet they're making the big sweet dollars. They're making the money, and I got an agent that ain't even put the number on the table. 
JERRY I understand your anxiety. 
TIDWELL Maybe you don't.  Because it's not just the money I deserve.  It's not just the "coin."  It's the... 
He says this next word royally, as if it's fine silk. 
TIDWELL (continuing) --  the kwan. 
JERRY That's your word? 
TIDWELL Yeah, man, it means love, respect, community... and the dollars too. The package.  The kwan. 
JERRY (impressed) But how did you get "kwan?" 
TIDWELL (irritated) I got there from "coin," dude. Coin, coin... kwaaaan. 
JERRY Great word.  Towel? 
TIDWELL No, I air-dry. 
JERRY Rod, I say this with great respect, but those players you mentioned are marquee players and -- 
A portable phone beeps. 
TIDWELL Is that your porty or mine? 
JERRY You. 
Tidwell rummages in his bag.  Finds one of two porties and answers the one with a Polaroid of Marcee taped to it. 
TIDWELL Hi baby. Yeah, I'm just breakin' in the new agent.  He says I'm not marquee.  I know... I know... 
Tidwell holds up the phone so Jerry can hear the sound of Marcee going off. 
TIDWELL (continuing) My wife is upset with you. 
INT. LOCKER ROOM MIRROR -- DAY 
The conversation continues as Tidwell fixes hair in the mirror. Jerry  speaks  to  the  reflection,  taking  him  on, gesturing passionately.  Tidwell, still naked, may or may not be listening. 
JERRY Here's what I'm saying.  This is a renegotiation.  We want more from them, so let's show them more from us. Let's show them your pure joy of the game, let's bury the Attitude a little, let's show them -- 
TIDWELL (irritated) You're telling me to dance. 
JERRY No, I'm saying to be -- 
He mimes a dainty little showboat-touchdown dance. 
TIDWELL (little voice) "Love me love me love me... put me on t.v." (pissed) That's the iconography of rascism, man! 
JERRY Rod, I'm not a rascist.  I'm telling you to be the best version of you, to get back to the guy who first started playing this game. Way back when you were a kid.  It wasn't just about the money, was it? 
Tidwell gives him a look.  Money was always a factor. 
TIDWELL Do your job, man, don't tell me to dance. 
JERRY Fine. 
He begins gathering his things. 
TIDWELL I'm an athlete, not an entertainer. These are the ABC's of ME.  Get it? I don't dance. 
Jerry rubs face. 
TIDWELL (continuing) What's wrong. 
JERRY Forget it.  Forget it. 
TIDWELL No tell me. 
JERRY I'm out here for you!  You don't know what it's like to be me out here for you. It is an up-at-dawn pride-swallowing seige that I will never fully tell you about! Okay?! Help me help you help me help you. 
TIDWELL You're hanging by a very thin thread, dude.  And I dig that about you. 
Jerry has had enough for one day. 
JERRY (loopy, punch-drunk, arms flailing) Hey.  I'm happy to entertain you! I'll see you in L.A.! 
DOROTHY I'm getting him up, don't worry.' Ray will never see his mother's raging physical needs. 
She starts to exit, but Laurel pulls her back far a second. 
LAUREL First you gotta tell me something. 
DOROTHY No-- 
INT. HALLWAY -- MORNING 
Jerry moving dawn the hallway, hears voices. 
INT. KITCHEN -- MORNING 
LAUREL Because I'm worried that you're putting your faith in this guy who, because of the way things are going, may not have an emotional marble in his head. 
DOROTHY Please, if I start talking -- 
LAUREL Guys are just different people when they're hanging onto the bottom rung. 
ON JERRY 
listening.  Pinned to the wall, listening to the kind of honesty an agent rarely hears. 
DOROTHY ... so what am I, for taking the opportunity, Laurel? (more) 
DOROTHY (cont'd) Maybe I am taking advantage.  Am I a bad person? All I know is that I found someone who was charming and popular and not-so-nice to me -- and he died.  Okay?  So why should I let this guy go, when everything in my body says This One is The One. 
LAUREL Easy, hon, I was just looking for fun details -- 
DOROTHY Oh, well, why didn't you say so? And oh, I don't know if you're interested in this detail, but I was just about to tell you that I love him.  I love him, and I don't care what you think.  I love him for the guy he wants to be, and I love him for the guy he almost is. I love him. 
They look at each other. The cat is way, way out of the bag. 
ON JERRY 
rubbing his face. 
RAY Hi Jerry! 
Dorothy leans into the hallway now, sees Jerry standing there, well within earshot.  As Ray pounds down the hallway in his new over-sized shirt, brought by Jerry, Dorothy begins to crumble. The lack of control in her life is overwhelming her. 
DOROTHY Oh God. 
JERRY Easy, easy -- 
Jerry enters the kitchen, stands near Laurel. 
JERRY (continuing) I could pretend I didn't hear, but I won't, I heard everything. (to Laurel) Thank you for your honesty, as always. 
LAUREL (frozen polite) Coffee, Jerry? 
JERRY Oh, no thanks.  We bottom-feeders prefer cereal first -- 
RAY Let's have Apple Jacks! 
Apple Jacks it is.  Dorothy, good morning, darling. He kisses her on the cheek, in full view of Ray.  Dorothy, still embarrassed, not sure what is going on, reaches for cereal. Jerry sits down for breakfast.  They are an odd, but fairly complete-looking family. 
RAY (continuing) What's going on, Jerry? 
JERRY A lot.  We got a big fax today... we need this commission, buddy. 
The sisters look at each other.  Ray looks around, he feels happy, but there is something else in the room.  He shrugs and continues to feel happy. 
INT. JERRY'S HOME OFFICE -- LATER DAY 
Jerry and Dorothy prepare for the Tidwells, cleaning up the cramped office, unstacking chairs and making room. 
DOROTHY That was great of you this morning. 
The Tidwells honk, arriving in the driveway. 
JERRY (friendly, dismissive) Look, let's just root for a big offer so we can move out of this room to a real office. 
She feels slightly slapped down, but covers.  She opens a window quickly, and busies herself with the clutter at hand. 
ON FAX 
Connecting. 
FOUR FACES 
waiting for the results.  Everybody has a stake in this fax. Lives are very clearly hanging on this results.  Marcee shuts her eyes. 
MARCEE Read it to me, and don't say anything unless it's over nine. 
There is a stunning disappointment on the fax.  Jerry's heart sinks.  His face slackens. 
JERRY Aw shit -- 
DOROTHY Take care you guys. 
Tidwells exit.  Finally, Dorothy and Jerry are alone.  The Tidwell situation has left an ominious feeling in the air. 
DOROTHY (continuing) Look...  I was up for a job in San Diego before I left SMI. It's with the Chargers. 
AIRPLANE WHEELS 
touching down. 
JERRY Don't even talk about that yet. I'll find something fast for Tidwell. We'll stay afloat. 
EXT. COMMERCIAL SET/TAYLOR CHEVROLET/ARIZONA -- DAY 
Tidwell stands on the set of a regional Arizona car commercial. It is a hot day.  Three other bored, large Arizona athletes wait by a coffee machine, as Jerry's friend, director Bill Dooler appears ready to implode.  Dooler is arguing with Tidwell. 
Maguire stands slightly away, acting as referee.  Nearby, a camel. 
DOOLER Look, Rod, just get on the camel! 
JERRY Bill, Rod, wait -- 
TIDWELL Dude, know your art form.  If you put the camera down here, looking up, I look more powerful.  There's no need for a camel... you got ME. 
JERRY Rod, get on the camel. 
DOOLER (shoots look to Jerry) The sponsor wants a camel -- 
TIDWELL Jerry, back me up.  It's either the camel or me... 
Tidwell waves his arms, spooking the camel, who spits and stormps. Several crew members scatter in various directions. 
JERRY (takes the bullet) Airight.  Enough.  I'm pulling him out of this.  This isn't what I had in mind anyway. 
DOOLER Then you shouldn't have begged me to hire him. 
EXT. SET -- LATER 
Jerry and Tidwell walk quickly from the set.  In the background, another athlete rides the camel. 
TIDWELL There you go, dude.  You're learning how to represent me.  We ain't gonna bring Nike to their knees with some regional camel ad -- 
Jerry rubs his face. 
JERRY Can I ask you a question totally unrelated to your career? 
TIDWELL Oh, we gonna be friends now? 
JERRY What do you know about dating a single mother? 
Tidwell warms to the personal question. 
TIDWELL Oh I know plenty.  I was raised by a single mother. 
JERRY Tell me, because it's been a month, and she's about to take another job in San Diego. 
Tidwell is always happy to hold forth. 
TIDWELL First, single mothers don't "date." They have been to the circus, you know what I'm saying? They have been to the puppet show and they have seen the strings. You love her? 
JERRY How do I know? 
TIDWELL You know when you know.  It makes you shivver, it eats at your insides. You know? 
JERRY No, I don't know. 
TIDWELL Then you gotta have The Talk. 
JERRY But I sure don't like that she's leaving. 
TIDWELL Well, that ain't fair to her.  A single mother, that's a sacred thing, man. 
JERRY The kid is amazing. 
TIDWELL (shaking head) No.  A real man does not shoplift the "pooty" from a single mom. 
JERRY I didn't "shoplift the pooty."  We were thrown together and -- I mean it's two mutual people who -- (a look) Alright, I shoplifted the pooty. 
TIDWELL Shame on you.  SHAME on you. 
INT. ZOO -- DAY 
Jerry, Dorothy and Ray at the zoo.  Ray straining at Jerry's arm. Life-changing decisions in the air. 
DOROTHY They offered me everything I asked for, it's only 2 hours away. I think it's good for us. 
Jerry feels tugged in many directions, and not just by Ray. They approach the reptile house. 
RAY Show me the animal, Jerry! 
moving to her car.  She hears him.  It's not loud enough for her. 
JERRY WAIT A SECOND! 
She stops, smiling very slightly to herself , biting her lip. She turns and he is now close to her. 
JERRY (continuing) I know a way to s... to save on Medical and rent and... look... 
He grips one hand with the other.  Dorothy looks at his strange behavior.  He looks over to the cab, where Ray is making a sad face at him through the window. 
JERRY (continuing) ...  what if we stayed together? What if we uh... got married. 
She looks at him.  It's an odd proposal. 
JERRY (continuing) If I said that, would you stay? 
DOROTHY No no.  Don't do that.  Don't say that if you don't... 
JERRY Will you marry me? 
She looks at him, full of love, dabbing at her mascara. 
EXT. DOROTHY'S BACKYARD -- DAY 
Rod Tidwell sings Marvin Gaye's "What's Going On" at the wedding for assorted guests gathered here in the backyard. Contrary to his own belief, Rod is not a gifted singer.  In the wedding band, standing on a small stage in the corner, are Chad and Dooler. 
ON JERRY 
who stands watching, smile pasted on, with stoic FATHER and well-dressed BROTHER. 
BROTHER Where are all your friends? 
JERRY (looking around) In the band. 
INT. DOROTHY'S LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
We are close on Ray now as we hear the sound of a Reverend reading wedding vows.  Ray holds the ring, and waits for his cue to offer it.  But he has forgotten the cue.  And every time the Reverend pauses, he starts to offer the ring. 
Dorothy's leg and hand are visible in frame.  She calms him with a hand on the shoulder.  And finally the cue comes and he offers the ring. 
INT. DOROTHY'S HALLWAY/KITCHEN -- NIGHT 
The bride and groom catch each other, post-wedding, in the hallway of the small home where the event has taken place. 
DOROTHY Wow.  We actually -- 
JERRY Yeah, we did. 
Giddy, Dorothy heads into the living room where Friends and relatives watch the video of the wedding. And now the enormity is evident on Jerry's face. Warm laughter in the b.g.  More laughter and family noise in the background now. He holds onto a table for a moment, steadies himself.  Jerry takes a breath and moves into the kitchen.  Finds a beer.  He turns and finds himself alone with Laurel, for the first time.  She raises her beer.  They toast, warily. 
LAUREL If you fuck this up, I'll kill you. 
JERRY (as she exits) Glad we had this talk! 
Nearby, Tidwell watches all.  He moves to Jerry. Confidentially: 
TIDWELL You never had The Talk, did you? 
JERRY No. 
TIDWELL Well, this was another way to go. 
Jerry smiles.  Dorothy brings Jerry a Poloraid someone took, and for a moment the couple stands awkwardly together. Tidwell rubs Jerry's shoulders a little, announcing to the room: 
TIDWELL (continuing) This is my agent, man!  And we're all gonna have a great season! 
He pounds Jerry on the back, hard, shaking him like a pinata. 
FADE TO 
EXT. PHILADELPHIA PLAYING FIELD -- DAY 
Tidwell catches the ball, takes a vicious hit. The season is on. 
INT. PHILADELPHIA PRESS BOX -- DAY 
Across the room, he sees GM Dennis Wilburn standing with Avery. 
He turns away, passing a monitor where elsewhere in the country, Frank Cushman is having another sensational Sunday. 
INT. TIDWELL LIVING ROOM/PHOENIX -- DAY 
This is the Tidwell family ritual of watching Rod's games on the big-screen home t.v.  At the center is Marcee Tidwell. Everything flows from her.  Next to her is Tyson, and then the cousins, the neighborhood friends.  At this particular moment, they are all screaming for Rod, who is taking a beating, but is having a hell of a game.  In front of the t.v., Tyson does the "Daddy Dance," a dance of pure joy. 
TYSON (proudly, to family) That's my motherfucker! 
Marcee reaches out and collars her dancing son. 
MARCEE Why don't you be the first man in your family not to say that word? And then we'll let you live. 
TIDWELL (wary) I think so. 
JERRY (intense) Airight.  Here's why you don't have your ten million dollars yet. You are a paycheck player.  You play with your head.  Not your heart.  In your personal life? (points) Heart. But when you get on the field -- (more) 
JERRY (cont'd) (finger rises to Tidwell's head) -- you're a businessman.  It's wide-angle lenses and who fucked you over and who owes you for it. That's not what inspires people. I'm sorry, but that's the truth, can you handle it? Just a "question," Rod.  Between friends. 
TIDWELL I don't want to be friends anymore. 
JERRY Fine. 
TIDWELL Beautiful. 
JERRY (angry) We still having dinner in L.A.? 
TIDWELL (anqry) Only 'cause my wife likes your wife! 
Jerry exits.  Tidwell is pissed.  And hurt. 
TIDWELL (continuing) "No heart."  "No heart?" (yells after him) I'm all heart, motherfucker! 
He gets on the bus. 
INT. CRAB RESTAURANT -- NIGHT 
The Tidwells and the Maguires.  Tyson and Ray run around the table of this family-style restaurant. Marcee is very very pregnant. They crack crabs for each other, seasoning for each other, feeding each other like one many-armed and loving body. 
MARCEE -- so I go to see a so-called "black" film the other day -- (then) -- honey, no more salt for you, I don't want you dehydrated for Monday Night Football.  Most important game of your career. (more) 
MARCEE (cont'd) (then) -- TWENTY minutes of coming attractions. All black films, all violent, I'm talking about brothers shooting brothers, Wesley Snipes with guns the size of our house, killing, blood flowing, cars crashing... blood blood blood blood. Is this all they think we want to see? Come on!  I enjoyed Shindler's List.  Give me a little credit, I mean hooo -- 
TIDWELL I hate you going to movies alone withoutme -- 
MARCEE Oh baby -- 
He cracks more crab, gives her the biggest piece. 
SHOT OF JERRY AND DOROTHY 
Sitting across the table, stunned, just watching this intricate and perfect marriage. 
SHOT OF MARCEE 
She takes a breath and gets a weird look. 
TIDWELL What baby? 
MARCEE Baby.  Baby.  Baby... 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM -- NIGHT 
Marcee gives birth, Rod assisting.  Jerry and Dorothy watch from behind thick glass.  She hangs her arm on his shoulder, looks at him.  Jerry stares straight ahead. Mortified, with dry throat. 
INT. DOROTHY AND JERRY'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
Jerry and Dorothy exhausted, alone, getting ready for bed. Dorothy sits down near him on the bed. 
DOROTHY What were you thinking tonight? Watching them go through the complete human emotional experience? 
JERRY I was thinking I hope he doesn't get injured. I felt responsible. 
DOROTHY Sometimes I can't tell at all, what's going through that head of yours. 
He makes a noise. As in -- it's no big mystery. 
DOROTHY (continuing) And I really don't know your noises yet. 
JERRY Well, when you wonder, ask me. 
DOROTHY (unsatisfied) Okay... I will... 
Beat.  He feels inadequate. 
JERRY Why do you love me? 
DOROTHY Why do you love me? 
It is, of course, the better question.  And before he can answer, there is a pounding at the door. 
RAY Jerry, can I come in and watch t.v.? 
DOROTHY                       JERRY I'll come visit you in a      Just for a few minutes, second --                     buddy -- 
The door flies open and Ray comes bounding in, onto the bed, stations himself in the center and begins wrestling Jerry for the remote control.  Dorothy watches, disconnected.  A steeliness comes over her that we have not yet seen. 
INT. PRESCHOOL -- NEXT DAY 
Dorothy drops Ray at preschool, and stands in the doorway of the playroom.  She watches the boys and girls playing together in a room full of bright colors and games.  Music. Anxiety building. 
EXT. RAY'S PLAYHOUSE -- NIGHT 
Nervous Tidwell chews a toothpick as he stands checking out the field.  Nearby, some cheerleaders and a man in a Pickle suit. 
PICKLE MAN Nothing like Monday Night, huh? What is it, 2 billion viewers? 
TIDWELL (irritated) Shouldn't you be out there doing some pickle dance or something -- Pickle Man nods and goes out to dance for the crowd. 
VOICE Hey Rod -- hey Buddydude -- 
Tidwell turns.  It's Bob Sugar approaching. Laser-like, ready to feed on his insecurity. 
SUGAR Listen, I spoke to your quarterback. He's my client, you know.  And I said, "take care to get those passes down, let Tidwell look good on t.v." 
Tidwell looks at him, chews his toothpick. 
SUGAR (continuing) You should let me do more for you. I would have had you your deal by tonight.  Al Michaels is a friend of mine. I would have had him on the air, talking about you, tonight, when it counts. 
TIDWELL Get outta here.  Go. 
SUGAR Where's your agent tonight? 
TIDWELL Don't know. 
SUGAR Rod.  I know this is "uncool" to do this now, but you belong with the big boys.  You belong with the money. You belong with -- 
Here comes Jerry Maguire. 
JERRY Get the fuck away from my guy, Sugar. 
Tidwell can't help it.  He beams as he sees his agent approach. 
TIDWELL Jerry!  You made it -- 
JERRY (off Sugar) Go.  Flee. 
Sugar retreats, offering one final look to Rod, think about what I said. 
TIDWELL Thanks for coming. 
JERRY (bittersweet) I missed ya.  What can I say? 
INT. TIDWELL HOME -- NIGHT 
They watch the game. 
GIFFORD (ON T.V.) It's a bruiser out there tonight. 
MICHAELS (ON T.V.) Arizona refusing to go into the quiet night of this rough football season. Come on, I'm trying to be poetic here. 
Tidwell takes a rough hit, and they respond loudly. 
DIERDORF (ON T.V.) Ooof.  Another rough hit across the middle on Rod Tidwell. Nothing poetic about that. 
INT. PRESS BOX -- NIGHT 
Maguire moves through the box. 
INT. FIELD -- NIGHT 
Tidwell takes a hit.  Hangs onto the ball. 
INT. TIDWELL LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
The Tidwell clan are banging on t.v. trays and whooping loudly. But in the middle of the cheers, Marcee sees the unsettled look on young Tyson's face.   She pulls him over to her, giving him preference over baby Kaydee.  He is the only thing in her world, as she says: 
MARCEE What does daddy say? 
TYSON "It looks worse than it is... 
Marcee gives him a kiss, as Tidwell makes another grueling gain on the field. 
FRANK GIFFORD'S VOICE They don't pay enough for a man to take that kind of ugly hit -- 
MARCEE (to others) Boy, no s-h-i-t. 
Big laughs from the living room.  Except Tee Pee. 
TEE PEE He's gonna have nothing left for next season.  They're letting him kill himself. 
MARCEE Can you be quiet? 
TEE PEE What'd I say? 
INT. PRESS BOX -- NIGHT 
Maguire watches as Arizona's quarterback John Swenson drops back for a pass, and is sacked. 
Philadelphia fans cheer wildly.  The game is turning uglier by the minute.  Jerry looks up to the monitor for a closet look at the next play. 
ON PRESS BOX MONITOR 
TRAINER Can you feel your legs? 
TIDWELL Yeah.  Just let me enjoy this for a minute. 
ON JERRY 
who watches.  Only marginally relieved.  Is he okay? 
ON FANS 
Crowd noise rises.  Is he okay? 
ON TIDWELL 
Can he move?  Is he okay? 
ON TIDWELL'S LIVING ROOM 
Not a breath is taken.  Is he okay? 
He rises.  Stadium explodes.  At first on wobbly feet, he raises the football and for the first time -- salutes the crowd.  Crowd noise doubles. 
ON MAGUIRE 
gasping for breath. 
ON TIDWELL 
Has never felt like this before in his life.  It is the pure and absolute love of the spotlight.  And his fans. 
And then... it's real and he feels it.  Tidwell breaks out in a small but unmistakable move -- a flutter step.  He does a high-stepping move, all his own, for about ten yards. 
ON JERRY MAGUIRE 
who watches, now in complete disbelief. Tidwell will not let go of the spotlight. 
ON TIDWELL'S LIVING ROOM 
Going absolutely nuts.  Marcee hysterical, laughing and crying. 
MARCEE (to Tee Pee) You ain't talking now, are you??? You're a silent motherfucker! 
Tyson watches in silent awe of his mother. 
BACK ON TIDWELL -- CLOSE 
Finishes his small but heartfelt dance.  It is a personal catharsis he is sharing now with 2 billion people. 
TIDWELL (to himself) Nike. 
He moves past Jerry Maguire on his way off the field. Jerry, casually thumps his heart twice. Jerry Maguire is overcome with emotion.  He sits down on a camera case, head in his hands.  Behind him, a stadium cheers a new hero. 
OVERHEARD FAN I always knew he was great. 
Maguire rubs his face.  Overcome. Photographers and others rush past to be closer to Tidwell. 
INT. TUNNEL -- LATER 
Jerry Maguire surrounded by well-wishers and backslappers and Sportswriters.  Success has returned, in all of it's superficial grandeur.  He is a star again, by association. We catch the look on Maguire's face.  Try as he might, he can't manufacture the joy of the moment.  There is a void. Over the heads of the heatseekers we see Dennis Wilburn nodding, holding a thumbs up.  He tries to get to Maguire, but cannot.  And then a commotion behind them all. 
REPORTER It's Tidwell! 
Tidwell exits the locker room.  Press and media surround him. Even the grizzled old-time stadium workers reach in to squeeze him, to slap him, to touch him.  He works his way to Maguire. 
They hug. Cameras flash.  Tears roll down from beneath his purple shades. 
TIDWELL We did it. 
And now, in the middle of this emotional union, a portable phone rings.  Both men reach for their porties.  It's Maguire's.  With anticipation, he answers. 
JERRY Hello. (beat) It's Marcee.  She says she couldn't get through on your phone. 
Tidwell grabs the phone, and joyously shares the moment with his wife.  Jerry watches, as Tidwell leans on his shoulder. 
ON SUGAR AND SWENSON (WATCHING THEM) 
Bob Sugar watches from the nearby wall where he stands with his client, quarterback John Swenson. 
SWENSON Why don't we have that kind of relationship? 
INT. ARIZONA KAROAKE BAR -- NIGHT 
Rod Tidwell sings karoake, on stage.  He's struggling through U2's "One."  In the audience are many Arizona players, as well as most of Tidwell's family. 
TIDWELL One love... you got to share it... 
INT. TIDWELL HOME -- NIGHT 
Tee Pee is stuck at home, babysitting twenty kids. 
