JFK 
By 
Oliver Stone & Zachary Sklar 
Based on books by 
Jim Marrs & Jim Garrison 
FADE IN 
Credits run in counterpoint through a 7 to 10 minute sequence of documentary images setting the tone of John F. Kennedy's Presidency and the atmosphere of those tense times, 1960 through 1963.  An omniscient narrator's voice marches us through in old time Pathe' newsreel fashion. 
VOICE January, 1961 - President Dwight D. Eisenhower's Farewell Address to the Nation - 
EISENHOWER ADDRESS 
EISENHOWER The conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms industry is new in the American experience.  The total influence - economic, political, even spiritual - is felt in every city, every statehouse, every office of the Federal Government... In the councils of government we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military industrial complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist... We must never let the weight of this combination endanger our liberties or democratic processes.  We should take nothing for granted... 
ELECTION IMAGERY 
School kids reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.  WPA films of farmers harvesting the Texas plains.  Rain, thunderheads, a dusty car coming from far away on a road moving towards Dallas.  Cowboys round up the cattle.  Young marrieds in a church.  Hillsides of tract homes going up.  The American breadbasket, the West.  Over this we hear Eisenhower's address.  As we move into the election campaign of 1960, we see the TV debates, Nixon vs. Kennedy, Mayor Daley, Kennedy victorious... 
Against this is juxtaposed other forces: segregation, J. Edgar Hoover, military advisors, Castro, Marilyn Monroe, Lumumba... three frames of the Zapruder film counter-cut... ending with the Kennedy inauguration and the irony of Earl Warren administering the oath as he will Kennedy's eulogy. 
VOICE 2 November, 1960 - Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts wins one of the narrowest election victories in American history over the Vice- President Richard Nixon by a little more than 100,000 votes.  Rumors abound that he stole the election in Illinois through the Democratic political machine of Mayor Daley... (inauguration shots) At his inauguration, at a time when American males all wore hats, he let his hair blow free in the wind. Alongside his beautiful and elegant wife of French origin, Jacqueline Bouvier, J.F.K. is the symbol of the new freedom of the 1960's, signifying change and upheaval to the American public, scaring many and hated passionately by some.  To win the election and to appease their fears, Kennedy at first takes a tough Cold War stance. 
BAY OF PIGS IMAGERY 
The beach, the bombardment, the rounding up of prisoners, Kennedy's public apology, Allen Dulles standing next to J.F.K., both uncomfortable with the small talk... 
VOICE 3 He inherits a secret war against the Communist Castro dictatorship in Cuba, a war run by the CIA and angry Cuban exiles out of bases in the Southern United States, Panama, Nicaragua and Guatemala.  Castro is a successful revolutionary frightening to American business interests in Latin America - companies like Cabot's United Fruit, Continental Can, and Rockefeller's Standard Oil.  This war culminates in the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion in April 1961, when Kennedy refuses to provide air cover for the exile brigade.  Of the 1600 men who invade, 114 are killed, 1200 are captured.  The Cuban exiles and the CIA are furious at Kennedy's irresolution... Kennedy, taking public responsibility for the failure, privately claims the CIA lied to him and tried to manipulate him into ordering an all-out American invasion of Cuba.  He vows to splinter the CIA into a thousand pieces and fires Director Allen Dulles, Deputies Charles Cabell and Richard Bissell, the top leadership of the Agency. 
SECRET WAR IMAGERY 
Cuban rallies, footage of training camps, espionage activities, boats, cases of weapons, Robert Kennedy... John Roselli, Sam Giancana, Santos Trafficante, Richard Helms (the new CIA chief), Bill Harvey, Head of ZR/RIFLE, Howard Hunt... 
VOICE 4 The CIA, however, continues it's secret war on Castro with dozens of sabotage and assassination attempts under it's ZR/RIFLE and MONGOOSE programs - The Agency collaborates with organized crime elements such as John Roselli, Sam Giancana, and Santos Trafficante of Tampa, whose casino operations in Cuba, worth more than a hundred million dollars a year in income, Castro has shut down. 
CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS 
Khrushchev, Kennedy, Castro on television, meetings with Cabinet, Russian vessels in Caribbean, U.S. nuclear bases on alert, civilians going to underground safe areas... the Russian ship turning around, the country smiling... 
VOICE 5 In October 1962, the world comes to the brink of nuclear war when Kennedy quarantines Cuba after announcing the presence of offensive Soviet nuclear missiles 90 miles off American shores.  The Joint Chiefs of Staff and the CIA call for an invasion. Kennedy refuses.  Soviet ships with more missiles sail towards the island, but at the last moment turn back. The world breathes with relief but backstage in Washington, rumors abound that J.F.K. has cut a secret deal with Russian Premier Khrushchev not to invade Cuba in return for a Russian withdrawal of missiles.  Suspicions abound that Kennedy is "soft on Communism." 
NUCLEAR TEST BAN IMAGERY 
Closing down Cuban Camps, McNamara speaking, Khrushchev and Kennedy, the "hot line" telephone system inaugurated, Kennedy with Jackie and children sailing off Cape Cod... Vietnam introduction, early shots, Green Berets, counterinsurgency programs, De Lansdale, leading up to the Test Ban signings... then J.F.K. at American University, June 10, 1963. 
VOICE 6 In the ensuing months, Kennedy clamps down on Cuban exile activities, closing training camps, restricting covert operations, prohibiting shipment of weapons out of the country.  The covert arm of the CIA nevertheless continues its plan to assassinate Castor... In March '63, Kennedy announces drastic cuts in the defense budget.  In November 1963, he orders the withdrawal by Christmas of the first 1000 troops of the 16,000 stationed in Vietnam. He tells several of his intimates that he will withdraw all Vietnam troops after the '64 election, saying to the Assistant Secretary of State, Roger Hilsman, "The Bay of Pigs has taught me one, not to trust generals or the CIA, and two, that if the American people do not want to use American troops to remove a Communist regime 90 miles from our coast, how can I ask them to use troops to remove a Communist regime 9,000 miles away?"... Finally, in August 1963, over the objections of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the United States, Great Britain and the Soviet Union sign a treaty banning nuclear bomb tests in the atmosphere, underwater and in space...  Early that fateful summer, Kennedy speaks of his new vision at American University in Washington. 
JFK What kind of peace do we seek?  Not a pax Americana enforced on the world by American weapons of war... We must re-examine our own attitudes towards the Soviet Union... If we cannot now end our differences at least we can help make the world safe for diversity.  For, in the final analysis, our most basic link is that we all inhabit this small planet.  We all breathe the same air.  We all cherish our children's future.  And we are all mortal... 
CONCLUDING KENNEDY IMAGERY 
Diplomats at the United Nations... Adlai Stevenson, Castor... Martin Luther King and the March on Washington (a snatch of his "I Have a Dream" speech)... Bobby Kennedy and Jimmy Hoffa going at it... U.S.  Steel Chairman's remarks in the steel face-off, men going to courtrooms with briefcases,... Teddy Kennedy, Rose, Joe, the Kennedy family, all teeth and good looks... and of course John campaigning, always campaigning, shaking hands, smiling, that supremely warm smile and sense of grace and ability to convey to crowds their oneness with him... forever... culminating in the more specific Texas shots... with Jackie in San Antonio, and Houston... then at Fort Worth... then at Love Field moving through the clouds toward the Dallas/Forth Worth plain which suddenly breaks into view as we descend... 
LOUISIANA HIGHWAY - DAY (1963) 
A moving car carrying two Cuban males disgorges a rumpled, screaming woman, Rose Cheramie, a whore in her thirties, lying there bleeding in the dirt.  The car drives off. 
HOSPITAL - DAY (1963) 
We see Rose, badly cut but quite lucid, trying to reason with a policeman, Lt. Fruge, and a doctor - in a remote black- and-white documentary. 
ROSE They're going up to Dallas... to whack Kennedy.  Friday the 22nd, that's when they're going to do it. In Dealey Plaza.  They're gonna whack him!  You gotta call somebody, these are serious fuckin' guys. 
DOCTOR (to the police officer) Higher'n a kite on something.  Been like this since she came in. 
BACK TO DOCUMENTARY IMAGES 
We see the last close-ups of Kennedy shaking hands on the tarmac at Love Field, smiling, into the motorcade... the downtown streets of Dallas, people packing the sidewalks clear back to the buildings, hanging out of windows ten stories up, schoolgirls surging out into the street in front of the car.  The President is wildly popular - except for the occasional posters calling for his arrest for treason... 
VOICE 7 More rumors emerge of J.F.K.'s backdoor efforts outside usual State Department and CIA channels to establish dialogue with Fidel Castro through contacts at the United Nations in New York.  Kennedy is seeking change on all fronts.  Bitter battles are fought with Southern segregationists to get James Meredith into the University of Mississippi. Three months after Kennedy submits a sweeping civil rights bill to Congress, Martin Luther King leads 250,000 in a march on Washington. Robert Kennedy, as Attorney General, for the first time ever vigorously prosecutes the Mafia in American life, bringing and winning a record number of cases - 288 convictions of organized crime figures including 13 grand juries against Jimmy Hoffa and his Teamsters Union.  The President also takes on Big Business, forcing back steel prices, winning 45 of 46 antitrust cases during 1963 and he wants to help everyday taxpayers by ending age- old business privileges like the oil depletion allowance and the fees paid to the Federal Reserve Bank for printing America's currency. Revolutionary changes are foreseen after J.F.K.'s assumed re-election in 1964.  Foremost in the political consciousness of the country is the possibility of a Kennedy dynasty. Robert Kennedy in '68, Teddy Kennedy in '76.  In November, 1963 John Kennedy travels to Texas, his popularity sagging to 59% largely due to his civil rights stand for which he is particularly hated in the South.  Texas is a crucial state for him to carry in '64.  With him is Vice-President, Lyndon Johnson and Texas Governor John Connally. On November 21, they visit Houston and San Antonio.  On the morning of November 22, he speaks in Fort Worth, then flies 15 minutes to Love Field in Dallas, where he takes a motorcade through downtown Dallas on his way to speak at 12:30 at the International Trade Mart.  Later, the motorcade takes him through Dealey Plaza at 
DEALEY PLAZA - THAT DAY (NOV. 22, 1963) 
We see a massive overhead shot of the Plaza as it lay then. Credits conclude under shot - and we have the subtitle "November 22, 1963." 
A young epileptic screams and suddenly collapses near the fountains in front of the Texas School Depository.  He has a violent epileptic fit that attracts surrounding attention. Dallas policemen run over to him.  We hear the siren of an ambulance roaring up. 
TIMECUT TO ambulance loading the epileptic man and taking off. 
AMBULANCE VOICE We are en route to Parkland. 
BACK TO a montage of the shooting.  We see Kennedy, in the last seconds, waving, turning the corner at Houston from Main... We see TV footage and a piece of Zapruder film from before the shooting; fragmented images... 
CUT TO stages shots of crowd people looking on.  The images are grainy to match the tone of the Zapruder film.  People are on rooftops, hollering.  The crowd is wild with enthusiasm.  We pan past Jack Ruby and slam into him in black- and-white.  The camera shows a Cuban man with a radio; a man with an umbrella; subliminals.  Through open windows on the fifth floor of the Criminal Courts Building, convicts watch and holler from their jail cells.  We see the sixth floor of the Texas Book Depository with open windows and a vague blur of a figure and a rifle. 
The clock on the Hertz sign reads 12:30. 
VOICE We'll be there in about five minutes. 
A motorcycle officer paralleling the Kennedy car tries to use his radio. 
It's jammed.  The sound of the jammed Dictabelt drives the rest of the sequence. 
CUT TO the Book Depository. 
MAN 2 I heard shots from over there. 
CUT TO the County Records Building. 
NEWSMAN 2 How many shots? 
WOMAN 3 About 3 to 4... I don't know. 
MAN 3 I never thought it could happen in America. 
Back in the bar, the camera moves to two patrons seated at a table by themselves, far enough away not to be heard.  Guy Banister is a sturdy, imposing ex - FBI agent in his 60's, steel gray hair, blue eyes, ruddy from heavy drinking.  He wears a small rosebud in his lapel.  Jack Martin is a thin, mousy man in his mid - 50's, wearing a Dick Tracy hat. 
They're both drinking Wild Turkey heavily.  The TV blares loudly across the room over their voices. 
BANISTER All this blubbering over that sonofabitch!  They're grieving like they knew the man.  It makes me want to puke. 
MARTIN God's sake, chief.  The President was shot. 
BANISTER A bullshit President!  I don't see any weeping for all the thousands of Cubans that bastard condemned to death and torture at the Bay of Pigs. Where are all the tears for the Russians and Hungarians and Chinese living like slaves in prison camps run by Kennedy's communist buddies - All these damned peace treaties! I'm telling ya Jack, that's what happens when you let the niggers vote.  They get together with the Jews and the Catholics and elect an Irish bleeding heart. 
MARTIN Chief, maybe you had a little too much to drink. 
BANISTER Bullshit! (yells across the room) Bartender, another round... (finishes drink) Here's to the New Frontier.  Camelot in smithereens.  I'll drink to that. 
NAPOLEON'S RESTAURANT - DAY(1963) 
Several hours have elapsed.  The clientele has grown, drinking, watching the tube with the insatiable curiosity the event engendered.  People stare in from the street... There is a silence in the restaurant. 
TELEVISION INSERT:  image of a Dallas policeman hauling a Mannlicher - Carcano rifle with a sniperscope over the heads of the press gathered in the police station. 
NEWSMAN 3 This is the rifle, it is a Mannlicher - Carcano Italian rifle, a powerful World War II military gun used by infantry and highly accurate at distances of 100 yards. 
We see images of the textbook boxes - the sniper's nest in the sixth story of the Book Depository - and then the view out the window looking down at Elm Street. 
NEWSMAN 3 The assassin apparently fired from this perch... but so far no word, much confusion and... 
CUT TO Newsman 2 at a different location or in studio. 
NEWSMAN 4 A flash bulletin... the Dallas Police have just announced they have a suspect in the killing of a Dallas police officer, J.D. Tippit, who was shot at 1:15 in Oak Cliff, a suburb of Dallas. 
Police are saying there could be a tie - in here to the murder of the President. 
TELEVISION INSERT:  Lee Harvey Oswald, a bruise over his right temple, is apprehended at the Texas Theatre. 
NEWSMAN 4 The suspect, identified as Lee Harvey Oswald, was arrested by more than a dozen police officers after a short scuffle at the Texas movie theatre in Oak Cliff, several blocks from where Officer Tippit was killed, apparently with a .38 revolver found on Oswald.  There is apparently at least one eyewitness. 
TELEVISION INSERT:  Oswald is booked at the station.  A surly young man, 24, he claims to the press: 
TV OSWALD No, I don't know what I'm charged with... I don't know what dispatches you people have been given, but I emphatically deny these charges. 
VOICE FROM THE BAR They oughta just shoot the bastard. 
The room bursts out with an accumulated fury at the young Oswald - a tremendous release of tension.  On the TV we see the excitement in the newsmen's eyes; they all sense that this is the break they're looking for in the case. 
Garrison and Ivon watch the TV, and then Garrison stands and pays the bill. 
LOU One little guy with a cheap rifle - look what he can do. 
JIM Let's get outta here, Lou.  I saw too much stuff like this in the war. 
As they leave, the camera holds on the image of Oswald. 
MISSISSIPPI RIVER WATERFRONT - TWILIGHT(1963) 
The sun is setting through thunderheads over the Mississippi River waterfront as Banister and Martin wobble out, drunk, down the street. 
BANISTER Well, the kid musta gone nuts, right? (Martin says nothing, looks troubled) I said Oswald must've flipped.  Just did this crazy thing before anyone could stop him, right? 
MARTIN I think I'll cut out here, chief.  I gotta get home. 
BANISTER (strong-arms Martin) Get home my ass.  We're going to the office, have another drink.  I want some company tonight. 
BANISTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT(1963) 
Rain pours down outside 531 Lafayette Street as Banister opens several locks on the door and turns on the lights. The frosted glass on the door says "W. Guy Banister Associates, Inc., Investigators."  It's a typical detective's office with spare desks, simple chairs, large filing cabinets and cubicles in the rear. 
BANISTER (repetitive) Who'd ever thought that goofy Oswald kid would pull off a stunt like an assassination? (Martin waits) Just goes to show, you can never know about some people.  Am I right, Jack? (Martin, frightened now, doesn't reply) Well, bless my soul.  Your eyes are as red as two cherries, Jack.  Don't tell me we have another bleeding heart here.  Hell, all these years I thought you were on my side. 
MARTIN Chief, sometimes I don't know whether you're kidding or not. 
BANISTER I couldn't be more serious, Jack. Those big red eyes have me wondering about your loyalty. 
Banister, going to a file cabinet to get a bottle out, notices one of the file drawers is slightly ajar.  He flies into a rage. 
BANISTER Who the hell opened my files!  You've been looking through my private files, haven't you, you weasel? 
MARTIN You may not like this, chief, but you're beginning to act paranoid.  I mean, you really are. 
BANISTER You found out about Dave Ferrie going to Texas today and you went through all my files to see what was going on.  You're a goddamn spy. 
MARTIN (angry) Goddammit chief, why would I ever need to look in your files?  I saw enough here this summer to write a book. 
BANISTER I always lock my files.  And you were the only one here today... (stops as he hears Martin) What do you mean, you son of a bitch? 
MARTIN You know what I mean.  I saw a lot of strange things going on in this office this summer.  And a lotta strange people. 
Members of the team exchange looks of surprise and disbelief. 
JIM Hold your horses.  What kinda source? 
BILL (grins) The anonymous kind, Chief. 
OSER I think I remember this guy Ferrie speaking at a meeting of some veteran's group.  Ranting against Castro.  Extreme stuff. 
NEWSMAN 1 We go back now to the basement of police headquarters where they're about to transfer Oswald to County Prison... 
TELEVISION IMAGE: The basement of the Dallas police headquarters - waiting.  Men mill around as Oswald is led out of the basement by two deputies.  Jack Ruby rushes forward out of the crowd - and into history - putting his sealing bullet into Oswald.  Total chaos erupts... 
The camera is on the staff, looking.  We hear gasps. 
ANNOUNCER He's been shot!  Oswald's been shot! 
VARIOUS VOICES Goddamn!  Look at that... Look at that... I don't believe this... Right on TV!  What is going on?  Who is this guy... oh Jesus. 
Jim is silent. 
LOU Seventy cops in that basement.  What the hell were they doing? 
NEWSMAN 1 Jack Ruby... Who is Jack Ruby?  Oswald is hurt. 
We see images of Oswald being lifted onto the stretcher, into the ambulance, and the newscaster crouching, whispering. Everybody in the room is stunned still. 
LOU Well, no trial now.  Looks like somebody saved the Dallas D.A. a pile of work. 
They look to Jim.  There's a pause.  He is deeply disturbed. 
JIM (quietly) Well, let's get Ferrie in here anyway. 
GARRISON OFFICE - NEXT DAY - DAY(1963) 
The portable television plays to Jim alone, sitting in his chair smoking a pipe.  We see searing images of the funeral - crowds of mourners, the casket being driven through the streets, the honor guards, the horses, the dignitaries walking behind, Jackie veiled... the faces of De Gaulle, MacMillan, Robert Kennedy.  We intercut briefly to Lyndon Johnson sitting down earlier that day with the Joint Chiefs of Staff... and then a future cut to Johnson in the Oval Office (staged). The shots are very tight, uncomfortable - noses, eyes, hands - very tight. 
As the door opens following a knock, David Ferrie is brought into Jim's office by two police officers and Lou Ivon.  Jim stands up, cordial. 
LOU Chief... David Ferrie. 
Ferrie suffers from alopecia, a disease that has removed all his body hair, and he looks like a Halloween character - penciled eyebrows, one higher than the other, a scruffy reddish wig pasted on askew with glue, thrift store clothing. His eyes, however, are swift and cunning, his smile warm, inviting itself, his demeanor hungry to please. 
JIM (shakes hands) Come in, Dave.  Have a seat, make yourself comfortable.  Coffee? 
FERRIE Do you remember me, Mr. Garrison?  I met you on Carondolet Street right after your election.  I congratulated you, remember? 
JIM How could I forget?  You make quite a first impression. (on intercom) Sharon, could you please bring us some coffee? (Ferrie laughs; pause) I've heard over the years you're quite a first-rate pilot, Dave. Legend has it you can get in and out of any field, no matter how small... (Jim points to the pictures on his wall) I'm a bit of a pilot myself, you know.  Flew grasshoppers for the field artillery in the war. 
Ferrie glimpses the low-volumed TV - and images of the funeral.  He looks away, jittery, and takes out a cigarette. Sharon brings the coffee in. 
FERRIE Do you mind if I smoke, Mr. Garrison? 
JIM (holds up his pipe) How could I?  Dave, as you know, President Kennedy was assassinated on Friday.  A man named Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested as a suspect and then was murdered yesterday by a man named Jack Ruby. (on each name, watching Ferrie's reaction) We've heard reports that Oswald spent the summer in New Orleans and we've been advised you knew Oswald pretty well. 
FERRIE That's not true.  I never met anybody named Oswald.  Anybody who told you that has to be crazy. 
JIM But you are aware, he served in your Civil Air Patrol unit when he was a teenager. 
FERRIE No... if he did, I don't remember him.  There were lots of kids in and out... y'know. 
JIM (hands him a current newspaper) I'm sure you've seen this.  Perhaps you knew this man under another name? 
FERRIE No, I never saw him before in my life. 
JIM Well that must've been mistaken information we got.  Thanks for straightening it out for us. (puffs on pipe, Ferrie looks relieved; images of the funeral continue on the TV) There is one other matter that's come up, Dave.  We were told you took a trip to Texas shortly after the assassination of Friday. 
FERRIE Yeah, now that's true.  I drove to Houston. 
JIM What was so appealing about Houston? 
FERRIE I hadn't been there ice skating in many years, and I had a couple of young friends with me, and we decided we wanted to go ice skating. 
JIM Dave, may I ask why the urge to go ice skating in Texas happened to strike you during one of the most violent thunderstorms in recent memory? 
FERRIE Oh, it was just a spur of the moment thing...  the storm wasn't that bad. 
JIM I see.  And where did you drive? 
FERRIE We went straight to Houston, and then Saturday night we drove to Galveston and stayed over there. 
JIM Why Galveston? 
FERRIE No particular reason.  Just to go somewhere. 
JIM And then Sunday? 
FERRIE In the morning we went goose hunting. Then headed home, but I dropped the boys off to see some relatives and I stayed in Hammond. 
JIM Did you bag any geese on this trip? 
FERRIE I believe the boys got a couple. 
JIM But the boys told us they didn't get any. 
FERRIE (fidgeting, lighting another cigarette) Oh yes, well, come to think of it, they're right.  We got to where the geese were and there were thousands of them.  But you couldn't approach them.  They were a wise bunch of birds. 
JIM Your young friends also told us you had no weapons in the car.  Dave, isn't it a bit difficult to hunt for geese without a shotgun? 
ELIZABETH JR. Nahhhh!  I don't wanna go to bed! 
LIZ Honey, that was three years ago - we all tried so hard to put that out of our minds, why are you digging it up again?  You're the D.A. of New Orleans.  Isn't the Kennedy assassination a bit outside your domain?  I mean all those important people already studied it. 
JIM I can't believe a man as intelligent as Earl Warren ever read what's in those volumes. 
LIZ Well maybe you're right, Jim.  I'll give you one hour to solve the case... until the kids are in bed. (rising, she puts her arms around him from behind and kisses his ear) Then you're mine and Mr. Kennedy can wait 'til morning.  Come on, everybody say goodnight to Daddy. 
JASPER (showing his drawing) Dad, look what I drew. 
JIM (rising) That's something, Jasper.  What is it? 
JASPER A rhinoceros.  Can I stay up another hour? 
Virginia and Snapper each get one of Jim's shoes as he dances with them, holding one with each hand. 
JIM (dancing) Pickle and Snapper, my two favorite dancing partners. 
As the children dance, they fall off Jim's feet, laughing and giggling.  He throws each in the air and kisses them. 
JIM Goodnight, my doodle bugs. 
KIDS Goodnight, Daddy. 
Liz comes over, smiling.  Jim takes her in his arms. 
LIZ One hour, y'hear?  Some Saturday night date you are. (sighs) Mama warned me this would happen if I married such a serious man. 
JIM Oh, she did, huh?  When I come up I'll show you how Saturday night got invented. 
GARRISON STUDY - LATER THAT NIGHT(1966) 
The clock on mantelpiece reads 3 A.M.  Jim is alone, smoking his pipe. 
In the stillness, his mind crawls all over the place.  The camera closes on the thickly-worded pages of the Warren Report. 
FLASHBACK TO the Warren Commission hearing room in Dallas, 1964.  We hear thin, echoey sound as the attorneys question some of the witnesses. 
The overall effect is vague and confusing, as is much of the Warren Report.  A Mr. Ball is questioning Lee Bowers, the switchman in the railroad yard.  Bowers, in his early 40's, has a trustworthy, working-man face and a crew cut. 
BOWERS I sealed off the area, and I held off the trains until they could be examined, and there was some transients taken on at least one train. 
ATTORNEY Mr. Bowers... is there anything else you told me I haven't asked you about that you can think of? 
BOWERS Nothing that I can recall. 
ATTORNEY Witness is excused. 
Jim, upset, reads on... Another witness, Sgt. D.V. Harkness of the Dallas Police responds to a second attorney. 
SGT. HARKNESS Well we got a long freight that was in there, and we pulled some people off of there and took them to the station. 
We see another FLASHBACK - to the Dallas rail yards on the day of the assassination.  Three hoboes are being pulled off the freight by the Dallas policemen. 
ATTORNEY (V.O.) You mean some transients? 
SGT. HARKNESS (V.O.) Tramps and hoboes. 
ATTORNEY (V.O.) Were all those questioned? 
FLASHBACK TO Dealey Plaza an hour or less after the assassination.  The three hoboes are marched by shotgun-toting policemen to the Sheriff's office at Dealey Plaza.  We note that they do not look much like hoboes. 
SGT. HARKNESS (V.O.) Yes, sir, they were taken to the station and questioned. 
JIM (astounded) And? (writes "incomplete") 
ATTORNEY (V.O.) (switching subjects) I want to go back to this Amos Euins. (voices dribble off) 
BOWERS (V.O.) Yes sir, traffic had been cut off into the area since about 10, but there were three cars came in during this time from around noon till the time of the shooting... the cars circled the parking lot, and left like they were checking the area, one of the drivers seemed to have something he was holding to his mouth... the last car came in about 7 to 10 minutes before the shooting, a white Chevrolet, 4-door Impala, muddy up to the windows. 
The camera's point of view is now from the railroad tower near Dealey Plaza.  We are fourteen feet off the ground, overlooking the parking lot behind the Grassy Knoll.  The shot includes this last car circling in the lot. 
BOWERS Towards the underpass, I saw two men standing behind a picket fence... they were looking up towards Main and Houston and following the caravan as it came down.  One of them was middle-aged, heavyset.  The other man was younger, wearing a plaid shirt and jacket. 
Inside the railroad tower, Bowers glances out, busy with the main board, flashing lights, a train coming in. 
BOWERS There were two other men on the eastern end of the parking lot. Each of 'me had uniforms. 
We see the parking lot from Bower's point of view - at a distance, but we have a sense of the cars and see the men at a distance, tow uniformed men.  The parking lot is bumper-to- bumper with a sea of cars.  Rain that morning has muddied the lot.  These brief images are elaborated on later. 
BOWERS At the time of the shooting there seemed to be some commotion... I just am unable to describe - a flash of light or smoke or something which caused me to feel that something out of the ordinary had occurred there on the embankment... 
We feel the growing intensity: music, drums - but all blurred. We see a puff of smoke but no sound because of the window Bowers is glancing through.  A motorcycle cop shoots up the Grassy Knoll incline.  People run, blurring into a larger mosaic of confusion.  Bowers is confused, seeing this. 
INTERCUT with Jim's heart pounding as he reads. 
Back in Dealey Plaza, S.M. Holland, an elderly signal supervisor, stands on the parapet of the railway. 
HOLLAND (V.O.) Four shots... a puff of smoke came from the trees... behind that picket fence... close to the little plaza - There's no doubt whatever in my mind. 
We see the scene from Holland's point of view - the puff of smoke lingering under the trees along the picket fence after the shooting. 
GARRISON BEDROOM - ANOTHER NIGHT(1966) 
Jim is asleep, having a tortured dream. 
DREAMSCAPE FLASHBACK: We see the Zapruder film, in slow-motion and J.F.K.'s face just before he goes behind Stemmons Freeway sign.  Jim sits up suddenly. 
JIM Y'ever heard of a double agent, Bill? I'm beginning to doubt Oswald was ever a Communist... after the arrest, 544 Camp Street never appeared on the pamphlets again.  Now here's another one for you:  What would you say if I told you Lee Oswald had been trained in the Russian language when he was a Marine? 
LOU I'd say he was probably getting intelligence training. 
JIM Lou, you were in the Marines.  Who would be running that training? 
LOU The Office of Naval Intelligence. 
JIM Take a look across the street. 
We see the Post Office building across the street. 
LOU Post Office. 
JIM Upstairs.  In 1963 that was the Office of Naval Intelligence - And just by coincidence, Banister, before he was FBI, was ONI.  What do they say? 
LOU "Once ONI, always ONI"? 
BILL Well, he likes to work near his old pals. 
Jim makes a gesture encompassing the whole Square. 
JIM Bill, Lou, we're standing in the heart of the United States Government's intelligence community in New Orleans.  That's the FBI there, the CIA, Secret Service, ONI.  Doesn't this seem to you a rather strange place for a Communist to spend his spare time? 
LOU What are you driving at, boss? 
JIM We're going back into the case, Lou - the murder of the President.  I want you to take some money from the Fees and Fines Account and go to Dallas - talk to some people.  Bill, I want you to get Oser on the medical, the autopsy, Susan on Oswald and Ruby histories, tax records... 
BILL Lord, wake me, please.  I must be dreaming. 
JIM No, you're awake, Bill, and I'm dead serious.  And we're going to start by tracking down your anonymous source from three years ago.  How did you find out Dave Ferrie drove to Texas that day? 
RACETRACK - DAY(1966) 
A straggly group of people watch from the grandstands eating hotdogs and talking in small clusters.  The horses are running early morning laps.  Three men sit apart in the bleachers. A scared Jack Martin, three years older than when last seen, still wearing the Dick Tracy hat, sucks up coffee like a worm does moisture.  He has the red puffy cheeks of an alcoholic and deeply circled, worried eyes.  Bill and Jim wait. 
JIM You're not under cross-examination here, Jack. 
What I need is a little clarification about the night Guy Banister beat you over the head with his Magnum.  You called our office hopping mad from your hospital bed.  Don't tell me you don't remember that? 
Jack looks away and doesn't respond. 
JIM Here's my problem, Jack.  You told me you and Guy were good friends for a long time? 
MARTIN More than ten years. 
JIM And he never hit you before? 
MARTIN Never touched me. 
JIM Yet on November 22, 1963 - the day of the President's murder - our police report says he pistol-whipped you with a .357 Magnum. (Martin's eyes are fixed on Jim) But the police report says you had an argument over the phone bill. Here, take a look at it. (Martin looks at the report) Now, does a simple argument over phone bills sound like a believable explanation to you? 
SUDDEN FLASHBACK to the night of the pistol-whipping.  The camera shows Banister laying Martin's head open / the beating the humiliation. 
MARTIN (shaking his head slowly, dreamily) No, it involved more than that. 
Bill looks at Jim. 
JIM How much more? 
MARTIN (waits) I don't know if I should talk about this. 
JIM Well, I'd ask Guy - we were friendly, you know - heart attack, wasn't it? 
MARTIN If you buy what you read in the paper. 
JIM You have other information? 
MARTIN I didn't say that.  All I know is he died suddenly just before the Warren Report came out. 
JIM Why did Guy beat you, Jack? 
MARTIN Well, I guess now that Guy's dead, it don't really matter... it was about the people hanging around the office that summer.  I wasn't really part of the operation, you know.  I was handling the private-eye work for Guy when that came in - not much did - but that's why I was there... it was a nuthouse.  There were all these Cubans coming and going.  They all looked alike to me. 
FLASHBACK to Banister's office in 1963.  There are Cubans in battle fatigues and combat boots; duffle bags are lying around.  David Ferrie, in fatigues, directs the Cubans as they carry crates of ammunition and weapons into a back room. Martin observes from another desk. 
MARTIN Dave Ferrie - you know about him? 
JIM (V.O.) Was he there often? 
MARTIN (V.O.) Often?  He practically lived there. It was real cloak and dagger stuff. They called it Operation Mongoose. The idea was to train all these Cuban exiles for another invasion of Cuba. Banister's office was part of a supply line that ran from Dallas, through New Orleans to Miami, stockpiling arms and explosives. 
Still in 1963, we see the exterior of Banister's office.  A dozen Cubans follow Ferrie downstairs into the street, and pile into several cars, duffels thrown in with them.  Ferrie drives the lead car. 
JIM (V.O.) All this right under the noses of the intelligence community in Lafayette Square? 
We see the cars cross the long Lake Pontchartrain Bridge and enter a remote guerrilla training camp.  Bayou and jungle are all around. 
MARTIN (V.O.) Sure.  Everybody knew everybody.  It was a network.  They were working for the CIA - pilots, black operations guys, civilians, military - everybody in those days was running guns somewhere... Fort Jefferson, Bayou Bluff, Morgan City... McAllen, Texas was a big gun-running operation. 
At the guerrilla training camp at Lake Pontchartrain in 1963, we see scenes of basic training - shooting, obstacle courses, callisthenics - led by Ferrie and other trainers.  Scattered among the Cubans are several white American mercenaries.  We catch a glimpse of Oswald and glimpses of several other men we will see again, in sprinklings. 
JIM (V.O.) Where is Banister in all this? 
MARTIN (V.O.) Banister was running his camp north of Lake Pontchartrain.  Ferrie handled a lot of the training.  There was a shooting range and a lot of tropical terrain like in Cuba.  A few Americans got trained, too.  Nazi types. Mercenaries.  But Ferrie was the craziest. 
It's night at the training camp.  FBI agents race up in cars in the middle of the night, swarming over the camp, rounding up the trainees. 
MAITRE D' Mr. Garrison, we have not seen enough of you lately. 
JIM Been too busy, Paul - an elected man can't have as much fun as he used to. (seeing Lou and Al) Welcome back, Lou.  Find out anything on those hobos? 
Lou's been waiting, excited.  He gives Jim blowups of the five hobo photographs. 
LOU They took 'em to the Sheriff's office, not the police station, and they let 'em go.  No record of them ever being questioned. 
JIM I can't say that comes as a surprise anymore. 
LOU A photographer from The Dallas Times Herald got some great shots of them never published... 
The camera moves in on the photographs. 
FLASHBACK TO the "hoboes" being escorted to the Sheriff's office - as per Sgt. Harkness' earlier description. 
LOU ...take a good look, chief, do any of 'em look like the hoboes you remember? 
JIM Hoboes I knew of old used to sleep in their clothes - these two look pretty young. 
LOU ...not a single frayed collar or cuff, new haircuts, fresh shaves, clean hands - new shoe leather. Look at the ear of the cop... That's a wire.  What's a cop wearing a headset for?  I think they're actors, chief; they're not cops. 
Susie Cox arrives. 
JIM Who the hell are they, then!  Hi, Susie, sit down. (to Lou) This could be it.  Let's start looking for 'em. 
How 'bout that railroad man, Lee Bowers?  Saw those men at the picket fence? 
LOU Graveyard dead.  August this year. (Jim curses quietly) A single car accident on an empty road in Midlothian, Texas.  The doctor said he was in some kind of strange shock when he died. (pause) 
JIM (shares the look) We need to find more witnesses, Lou. 
LOU There was Rose Cheramie.  A whore. Two Cubans threw her out of a car on the way to Dallas. 
She talked to a cop from a hospital bed two days before the assassination, said Kennedy would be hit that Friday.  She said she was a dope runner for Jack Ruby and that Ruby knew Oswald for years... 
JIM Can we find her? 
LOU Graveyard dead near Big Sandy, Texas in '65.  Two in the morning on some highway.  A hit and run. 
FLASHBACK to Rose lying dead on an empty highway. 
BILL Why not go right to the horse's mouth, chief? 
Jack Ruby's been rotting in a Dallas jail cell for three years.  Maybe he's ready to crack? 
JIM If we go to him our investigation'll hit the front pages by sunrise. Blow up right in our face.  Ruby was just given a new trial.  If he has something to say, it'll be there. Susie, what did you find out on Oswald? 
SUSIE Negative on his tax records. Classified.  First time I know a D.A. can't get a tax record.  I put together a list of all the CIA files on Oswald that were part of the Warren Report and asked for them.  There are about 1200 documents... (gives it to Jim who reads) Oswald in the USSR, in Mexico City, Oswald and the U2, a CIA 201 personnel file, a memo from the Director on Oswald, travel and activities - can't get one of them.  All classified as secret on the grounds of national security.  It's real strange. 
BILL Maybe there's more to this, Susie. The CIA's keeping something from our enemies. 
SUSIE Yes, but we're talking about a dead warehouse employee of no political significance.  Three years later and he's still classified?  They gave us his grammar school records, a study of his pubic hairs... Put it in context, Bill, of what we know about Oswald.  Lonely kid, no father, unstable childhood, high school dropout - wants to grow up and be a spy, joins the Marines at 17.  He learns Russian, he acts overtly Marxist with two other marines, but he's stationed at a top secret base in Japan where U2 spy flights over Russia originate.  He's discharged from the Marines supposedly because his mother's sick.  He stays home 3 days, then with a $1500 ticket from a $203 bank account, he goes to Moscow... 
FLASHBACK TO Moscow in 1959.  We see shots of the city - strange and eerie black-and-white stills.  Inside the U.S. Embassy Oswald slaps his passport on the table with a formal letter.  Two consuls attend him. 
OSWALD (voice stilted) I want to renounce my citizenship and become a Soviet citizen.  I'm going to make known to them all information I have concerning the Marine Corps and my specialty therein, radar operation... 
SUSIE (V.O.) One of the consuls, John McVickar, says Oswald's performance was not spontaneous - it seemed coached. Oswald gives an interview to a journalist. 
Continuing the Moscow flashback, we see Oswald talking with a female journalist in his small room in the Hotel Metropole. Again he sounds robotic. 
OSWALD I will never return to the United States for any reason.  It is a capitalist country, an exploitive, racist country.  I am a Marxist since I was 15.  I've seen poor niggers and that was a real lesson.  People hate because they're told to hate, like school kids.  It's the fashion to hate people in the U.S. 
SUSIE (V.O.) The Russians are skeptical - want to send him back.  Maybe they suspect he's a spy.  He supposedly slashes his wrists in a suicide attempt so that they're forced to keep him, and he disappears for six weeks, presumably with the KGB. 
We see photos of the city of Minks, in Russia, Oswald with various friends and tourists, shots of Lee and Marina with a new baby. 
SUSIE Finally they shuttle him to a radio factory in Minks where he lives as high on the hog as he ever has - he's given 5,000 rubles, a roomy apartment with a balcony, has affairs with local girls. 
JIM Makes sense - he's a spokesman. 
SUSIE But he never writes, speaks, or does any propaganda for the Russians.  He meets Marina, whose uncle is a colonel in Soviet intelligence, at a trade union dance; she thinks he's Russian the way he speaks, six weeks later they marry, have a daughter. 
NUMA Didn't someone say he didn't speak good Russian? 
JIM It's a contradiction, Numa, get used to them.  The only explanation for the royal treatment is he did give them radar secrets.  Or fake secrets. 
We see documentary shots of the U2 on Russian soil... Francis Gary Powers... The Summit Conference canceled... Eisenhower and Khrushchev. 
SUSIE (V.O.) I don't know if it's coincidence, but Oswald had a top security clearance and knew about the U2 program from his days at Atsugi Air Base in Japan.  Six months after he arrives in Russia, Francis Gary Powers' U2 spy flight goes down in Russia.  That plane was untouchable. Powers hinted that Oswald could've given the Russians enough data to hit it.  As a direct result, the peace summit between Khrushchev and Eisenhower failed.  I can't help thinking of that book Seven Days In May, maybe someone in our military didn't want the Peace Conference to happen, maybe Oswald was part of that.  It gets weirder. 
BILL Susie, you're an assistant D.A., remember.  Stick to what you can prove in court. 
SUSIE You want facts, Bill?  Okay.  From 1945 to '59 only two U.S. soldiers defect to Russia.  From '59 to '60, seven defect, six return, one of them another Marine a month before Oswald.  All of them young men made to seem poor, disenchanted. 
JIM Don't get sidetracked!  How does he get back to the States?  That's the point.  Does he have any problems? 
SUSIE None!  The State Department issues him a new passport in 48 hours and loans him the money to travel.  He's never investigated or charged by the Navy for revealing classified information or, as far as we know, debriefed by the CIA. 
JIM This is a man whose secrets cause us to change our radar patterns in the Pacific!  He should've been prosecuted as a traitor! 
SUSIE The FBI finally gets around to talking to him in Dallas and runs a file on him as a miscreant Communist type. 
JIM But who meets him when he gets off the boat in New York in June '62? 
The screen shows photos of New York: Empty docks... a ship coming in... Wall Street on a Sunday morning - Graphic Weegee- type black-and-white stills, then a photo of Spas T. Raikin. 
AL Boss, Oswald impersonators?  Sounds like James Bond now. 
JIM Al, you can't tell a mink from a coonskin unless you see the fur up close.  Goddamn, Sam!  If we don't start reading between the lines here! Y'all gotta start thinking on a different level - like the CIA does. We're through the looking glass. Here white is black and black is white. 
BILL What do you think, Lou? 
LOU I'm just an investigator, Bill.  I leave the theories to you lawyers. 
BILL You, Numa? 
NUMA A week ago I would've said this is nuts, but now ... (shakes his head) There's a lot of smoke there, but there's some fire. 
BILL Now you guys, come on.  You're talking about the United States Government here! 
JIM We're talking about a crime, Bill. No one is above the law.  Reduce it. A crime was committed.  Let's get to work. 
MEDICAL UNIT - JAIL - DAY(1966) 
Jack Ruby, thick fudge of an angry face, flu-ridden, confronts a doctor and two guards in his cell. 
RUBY Christ, what the hell kinda needle is that?  I just got a cold for Chrissake.  I don't want any shot! 
DOCTOR Please relax, Mr. Ruby.  This'll calm you down and clear this up. 
RUBY Doc, I'm telling you, I don't need any shots. 
DOCTOR Mr. Ruby, I don't want to involve the guards.  It'll just take a few seconds. 
Ruby looks over at the two guards, who eye him.  The Doctor gives him the injection. 
FLASHBACK TO Ruby's jail cell in 1964.  Ruby talks to men with their backs to us.  Lawyers and police clutter the cell, making Ruby hyper-nervous.  The chief official's white hair and avuncular voice are all we see and hear of him; his back is to us. 
RUBY Then do you understand that I cannot tell the truth here?  In Dallas. That there are people here who do not want me to tell the truth... who do not want me to have a retrial? 
OFFICIAL Mr. Ruby, I really can't see why you can't tell us now. 
Ruby catches the stern face of Sheriff Bill Decker from the corner of his eye, the Assistant D.A. next to him. 
RUBY When are you going back to Washington, sir? 
OFFICIAL (looks at watch) I am going back very shortly after we finish this hearing - I am going to have some lunch. 
RUBY Can I make a statement?  If you request me to go back to Washington with you right now, that is if you want to hear further testimony from me, can you do that?  Can you take me with you? 
OFFICIAL No, that could not be done, Mr. Ruby. There are a good many things involved in that. 
RUBY What are they? 
OFFICIAL Well, the public attention it would attract.  And we have no place for you there to be safe, we're not law enforcement officials, and many things are at stake in this affair, Mr. Ruby. 
RUBY But if I am eliminated there won't be any way of knowing.  Consequently a whole new form of government is going to take over this country, and I know I won't live to see you another time.  My life is in danger here. Do I sound screwy? 
OFFICIAL Well I don't know what can be done, Mr. Ruby, because I don't know what you anticipate we will encounter. 
RUBY Then you don't stand a chance, Mr. Chief Justice, you have a lost cause. All I want is a lie detector test, and you refuse to give it to me. Because as it stands now - and the truth serum - how do you pronounce it - Pentothal - whatever it is. They will not give it to me, because I want to tell the truth... And then I want to leave this world. 
The camera pauses on Ruby's face.  The men rise and leave in the shadows. 
PARKLAND MEMORIAL HOSPITAL - (1967) 
Jack Ruby is escorted out of the infirmary, dead of cancer. 
BROUSSARD'S RESTAURANT - NEW ORLEANS - (1967) 
The puffy, smiling face of Dean Andrews, framed by huge black glasses, talks in a Louisiana hippie argot of the 50's.  The restaurant has a fancy French decor, mirrored walls, marble - it serves the cream of Louisiana society. 
ANDREWS Why you keep dancing on my head for, my man?  We been thicker'n molasses pie since law school. 
JIM Because you keep conning me, Dean. I read your testimony to the Warren Commission and... 
ANDREWS There you go.  Grain of salt.  Two sides to every coin. 
JIM You tell them the day after the assassination you were called on the phone by this "Clay Bertrand" and asked to fly to Dallas and be Lee Oswald's layer. 
ANDREWS Right. 
JIM Now that's pretty important, Dean. You also told the FBI when you met him, he was six foot two.  Then you tell the Commission he was five foot eight.  How the hell did the man shrink like that, Dean? 
ANDREWS They put the heat on, my man, just like you're doing.  I gave'em anything that popped into my cabeza.  Truth is, I never met the dude. 
Sudden FLASHBACK to Andrews' office on a day in 1963.  Clay Bertrand sits, back to us, talking to Andrews.  He has close- cropped white hair.  He is the same patrician man we've seen earlier with Oswald on Canal Street and in Banister's office. Andrews is evidently lying. 
ANDREWS I don't know what the cat looks like and furthermore I don't know where he's at.  All I know is sometimes he sends me cases.  So one day he's on the phone talkin' to me about going to Dallas and repping Oswald... (notices a woman, in present) Hey, pipe the bimbo in red.  What ever happened to that little gal you was dating in the Quarter - from Opelousas, y'know, elevator didn't go to the top floor but tits could smother gumbo with. 
Jim, in present, looking briefly - a pretty girl walking in. 
JIM (remembering) Yeah, she was pretty, all right, but not half as cute as you, Deano.  You shoulda tried a legitimate line of business. 
ANDREWS (chuckles) You can't ever say crime don't pay in Louisiana, Jim - only not as good as it used to.  Good chowder, ain't it? 
JIM When did you first do business with this Bertrand? 
ANDREWS (bored) Oh, I first heard these street cats jiving about him back in '56, '57 when I lived down in the Quarter. 
JIM Street cats? 
ANDREWS Swishes.  They swish, y'know.  Young fags, you know.  They'd come into my bureau needing help, no bread, and I'd say, hey man, I ain't Rockefeller, who gonna back you up?  These cornmuffins go to the phone and dial... 
MOBSTER I told your uncle I never met a lawman who wasn't a punk.  You too, Bill, even if you're family.  He's a big shot businessman.  I seen him on the TV news a lot with all the other big shots.  A fag, you know.  Goes by another name down here. 
BILL (excited) What's the other name? 
MOBSTER Shaw.  Clay Shaw. 
BILL (stunned) Clay Bertrand is Clay Shaw?  The guy who used to run the International Trade Mart? 
MOBSTER Yeah, what's the big mystery? Everybody down here knows the guy. 
BILL So why does he call himself Bertrand? 
MOBSTER Who gives a shit what he calls himself? 
BACK AT GARRISON'S HOME -(1967) 
SUSIE ...now it gets positively spooky. In January, 1961 - in New Orleans, at the Bolton Ford Dealership - when the Oswald we know is in Russia - there is a man using the name "Oswald" to buy trucks for the Friends of Democratic Cuba.  The salesman never saw him again, but guess who's on the articles of incorporation of the Friends of Democratic Cuba?  Guy Banister. (reactions from the others) Banister has someone using the name "Oswald" to buy the trucks.  Hoover, at the FBI, writes a memo dated June, 1960, that there could be someone using Oswald's passport and identity. 
JIM Goddamn!  They put Oswald together from Day One!  Like some dummy corporation in the Bahamas - you just move him around a board.  Sent him to Russia, in and out, no passport problems.  You got the word "microdots" in his notebook, you got the Minox camera and the electronic devices they find in his possessions, the sealed DIZ201 personnel file. For all we know, there could be a dozen Oswalds in different cities, countries - all of them leaving a trail of incriminating evidence that could easily be traced to a scapegoat after the assassination.  Does the real Oswald know he's been put together?  Who knows.  It doesn't matter, does it?  He's a low level spy, he doesn't know who he really works for... 
(PAUSE) Let's call it a night. (to Lou) Anything new on Ruby? 
The staff members, anxious to go home, have all risen... and now sigh. 
LOU Mobbed up all the way.  Tight with the Dallas cops.  I'm digging, chief. I just need 10 more men and some more dollars. 
JIM I know you do, Lou.  I'm doing three more lectures this month.  You're all doing an incredible job, Sue, Al, Numa.  But this is one where if you don't nail the other guy, you're dead. (he pulls a book from the bookcase for Lou) How did Jack Ruby dies so quick?  Of what?  Cancer, right?  A history of Nazi Germany, Lou.  They were studying viral cancers as a weapon in the 30's.  We learned a lot more than you think from the Nazis.  Read this. Our biological warfare lab is in Fort Detrick, Maryland.  Close to where the National Cancer Institute is located.  Think about it.  Think the unthinkable - question everything. 
NUMA Even my own wife, chief, (looking at his watch) Who's wondering where I am? 
JIM (looking at Liz) Even your own wife, Numa.  Any of you want to quit, do me a favor... put us out of our misery. 
They all raise their hands as Bill walks in, excited. 
BILL I fould Clay Bertrand. 
They all stop, look. 
SUSIE Who? 
BILL Grab your socks and pull... Clay Bertrand is Clay Shaw... 
SUSIE (stunned) No!... Shaw!  Director of The Trade Mart?  This is incredible. 
NUMA Pillar of the community by day, gay bars at night. 
Liz Garrison is the most shaken, as she pours a fresh pot of coffee. 
JIM Can you get some sworn statements? 
BILL That's gonna be tough.  Nobody's talking. 
JIM I think we should have him in for a little talk. 
LIZ Do you have any evidence against him, Jim?  Clay Shaw's done so much for the city with all that restoration in the Quarter.  He's well connected, all his friends, the money, people, be careful, Jim. 
JIM It'll be off the record, honey. I'll bring him in on a Sunday.  A quiet little chat between gentlemen. 
Liz walks out of the room silent.  There is a tense pause. 
GARRISON'S LIVING ROOM - EASTER SUNDAY(1967) 
The TV is on to the latest Vietnam Reports - combat footage. 
NEWSMAN 10 (announcer) In heavy fighting in Vietnam today, seven more American soldiers died and 23 were wounded.  The body count for this week now stands at 67 Americans and 626 enemy soldiers killed in action. 
Liz plays with the kids looking for Easter eggs.  The dog is barking - it's a scene of commotion.  Jim is getting ready to go out. 
LIZ Jim, come on, honey, get down on your hands and knees and hunt for Jasper's Easter egg. 
JIM You know I don't like these tribal rituals, Freckle Face.  I'm interviewing Clay Shaw this morning. 
NEWSMAN 10 (as TV cuts to President Johnson) President Johnson, meanwhile at an informal press conference, said he regretted that there is no end in sight to the war in Vietnam, where 500,000 American troops are now fighting.  "We face more cost, more loss, and more agony."  In his proposal to raise taxes, Johnson... 
LIZ (surprised) But Jim, we're going to Antoine's with the kids - like we do every year. 
JIM No.  I told you I was going to talk to Shaw. 
LIZ But why in the Lord's name would you do it in the middle of Easter Sunday when you knew we were... 
JIM (annoyed with her look) Because when I scheduled it I didn't realize it was a holiday.  You were there, why didn't you say something? 
LIZ Look at the calendar, for Christ's sake.  You said a Sunday, not Easter Sunday. 
JIM I'm sorry, but it's important.  Clay Shaw is important.  I'm sorry. 
LIZ You're missing most of your life, Jim, and you don't even know it. The kids are missing out too. (harder) It's not just you making the sacrifice here, honey. 
JIM Look, I'll rush and be there by two, I promise.  Go ahead without me. 
As he leaves, the camera holds on Liz. 
GARRISON OFFICE - (1967) 
Clay Shaw ("Bertrand"), in an elegant white summer suit, is shown in.  Indeed, there is a slight limp to his gait which Jim notices right away. 
He shares a look with Bill.  Susie is also in the room. Shaw's rich bassoon voice drips with dialect.  Imperiously smoking a Gaulois, Shaw has about him an air of authority matched only by Jim's. 
SHAW Naturally. (he looks up) Are you claiming, Mr. Garrison, that Mr. Oswald also had dinner with me? 
JIM (humorless) Mr. Shaw, did you ever meet Lee Harvey Oswald? 
SHAW You really have me consorting with a cast of sordid characters, don't you, Mr. Garrison. 
JIM Please answer the question. 
SHAW Of course not!  Such a pity, that assassination.  In fact, I admired President Kennedy.  A man with true panache, and a wife with impeccable taste. 
Jim shows Shaw a newspaper clipping. 
JIM Mr. Shaw, this is an Italian newspaper article saying you were a member of the Board of Centro Mondo Commerciale in Italy, that this company was a creature of the CIA for the transfer of funds in Italy for illegal political-espionage activities.  It says that this company was expelled from Italy for those activities. 
SHAW I'm well aware of this asinine article.  And I am thinking very seriously of suing this rag of a newspaper. 
JIM It says that this company has heavily Fascist ties to the French secret army organization that tried to assassinate de Gaulle in 1960. 
SHAW Nonsense.  What next? 
JIM ...and that this company is linked to the Schlumber tool company here in Houma, Louisiana - which is where their arms may have come from to David Ferrie and his Cubans... 
SHAW Mr. Garrison, you're reaching.  I am an international businessman.  The Trade Mart which I founded is America's commercial pipeline to Latin America.  I trade everywhere. I am accused, as are all businessmen, of all things.  I somehow go about my business, make money, help society the best I can and try to promote free trade in this world. 
JIM Mr. Shaw, have you ever been a contract agent with the Central Intelligence Agency? 
Shaw glares at him.  Silence. 
SHAW (with powerful contempt) And if I was, Mr. Garrison... do you think I would be here today... talking to somebody like you? 
JIM No, people like you don't have to, I guess - people like you walk between the raindrops. 
SHAW (rising) May I go?  Regardless of what you may think of me, Mr. Garrison, I am a patriot first and foremost. 
JIM I've spent half my life in the United States military serving and defending this great country, Mr. Shaw, and you're the first person I ever met who considered it an act of patriotism to kill his own president. 
SHAW Now just a minute, sir!  You're way out of line! 
Susie and Bill quiet Jim down. 
BILL Come on, chief. (as he shows Shaw to the door) I'm sorry, Mr. Shaw, it's getting late.  That's all the questions we have.  Thank you for your honesty and for coming in today. 
SHAW I enjoyed meeting with you gentlemen, and you, Miss Cox.  It was most pleasant.  I wish to extend to each of you - and to each of your families - my best wishes for a happy Easter. (he exits.) 
JIM (beat, excited) "One may smile and smile and be a villain."  Goddammit!  We got one of 'em! 
GARRISON'S HOME THAT NIGHT (1967) 
Jim walks in, contrite.  Liz is shutting down the house. Some of the kids are still up. 
JASPER Daddy!  Where have you been? 
JIM (kisses Liz) Hi, Freckle Face. 
LIZ (seething) Hi. 
JIM Tough day. 
LIZ My sympathies. 
JIM Liz, I'm really sorry.  The meeting went much longer than expected. 
LIZ We waited for you... hours, Jim. You could have telephoned, for God's sake.  It's Easter!  You promised, Jim. 
JIM I don't know what to say except I'm sorry.  I just don't have rabbits on my mind. 
LIZ I think you care more about John Kennedy than your family!  All day long the kids are asking, "Where's Daddy?"  What am I supposed to tell your kids, Jim! 
JIM I don't know what to tell them.  How 'bout the truth - I'm doing my job to make sure they can grow up in a country where justice won't be an arcane, vanished idea they read about in history books, like the dinosaurs or the lost continent of Atlantis. 
LIZ That sounds dandy, but it doesn't replace a father and a husband on Easter Day. 
JIM (angry, turns away) It's going to get worse, honey. 
GARRISON'S OFFICE HALLWAY - MORNING(1967) 
Jim, is coming down the corridor with Broussard, is confronted by some 20 local journalists and TV crew members.  We hear a hubbub of fierce questioning - ad libs but Jim, puzzled, brushes by, seeking refuge in his office.  Lou, Al, Numa and Susie are all waiting for him.  The regular staff - some 30 people - are looking, wondering.  Lou presents him with the front page of the New Orleans States-Item. 
LOU Congratulations, Boss - you're page one! 
We see a close-up of the headline: "D.A. LAUNCHES FULL J.F.K. DEATH PLOT PROBE - Mysterious Trips Cost Large Sums." 
INSIDE GARRISON'S OFFICE 
JIM (striding into his office reading the paper) Goddamn Sam! 
LOU And it ain't pretty (reading the copy) ..."the AD has spent more than $8,000 on unexplained travel and investigative expenses since November, 
NUMA They went to the public records and got the vouchers we requested for withdrawals. 
SUSIE Shaw must've gotten them on our tail. 
AL Could be Ferrie, Martin, Andrews, any of 'em. 
BILL We didn't talk to Ruby 'cause of them and they're on our asses for a measly $8,000! 
Jim, at his desk, finishes reading the article.  A huge picture of him is on the front page.  He puts down the paper, reaching for a long, gold pen that is part of the desk set. 
JIM If you must know, virtually nothing. 
MILLER How many men are working with you on this? 
JIM Less than you would guess.  Most days two to three assistant D.A.'s. A handful of police investigators. 
MILLER That's all you've had all this time? 
JIM That's it. 
Jim expectant of some help.  A pause.  Then: 
MILLER I admire you, Mr. Garrison.  How did you manage to make your way into Guy Banister's operation? 
The clock is ticking.  Jim shares a look with Bill.  The cards are on the table. 
JIM That was never in he newspapers, Mr. Miller. 
Miller smiles, stands, paces the room.  He continues to ignore Bill completely. 
MILLER I'm going to be very frank with you. You've done a great job, an astounding job considering the limited resources available to you.  But the best you can ever hope for is to stir up a lot of confusion.  You're not going to do this country any good, and you're not going to do yourself any good. (he sits back down and looks directly at Jim) You don't belong here.  On this Mickey Mouse street with that cheap strip of bail bond shops. 
JIM The job manages to keep me pretty busy. 
MILLER Nonsense.  You should be in a job where you can make decisions that have impact, affect the world.  Here you're trying to climb up the steep side of Mount Everest. 
He leans forward across Jim's desk, tapping his manicured index finger on the desk.  Clearly visible to Jim and to us (in a close-up) is Miller's Annapolis ring tapping. 
MILLER I propose you accept an appointment to the bench in Federal District Court and move into a job worthy of your talent. (he leans back and pauses) Do you have any idea, do you have any conception of how easily such an appointment can be arranged? 
JIM And what would I have to do? 
MILLER Stop your investigation... it was a magnificent effort but it's over and done with.  The press is already on your behind and that's only the beginning, my boy, only the beginning. 
JIM How long do you think it would take me to be appointed? 
Jim's eyes go to Bill.  He could be wrong, but it's almost as if Bill were going along with the idea now. 
MILLER (smiling, thinking Jim is hooked) Well, ordinarily these things take a long time.  But in your case, with your record it can be expedited - easily.  I guarantee it. 
Jim leans back, puts his feet up on the corner of the desk, waving them like fans.  Bill waits. 
JIM Who are you, Mr. Miller? (no answer - just the sound of the overhead fan) You see that helmet over there? (the Nazi helmet with a bullet hole on his desk) I picked that up at the Dachau concentration camp when we liberated it in 1945.  It was the most horrifying sight I've ever seen, Mr. Miller.  Pyramids of decaying, stinking bones and skin one on top of the other.  I don't enjoy looking at that swastika every day, Mr. Miller, but I keep it there to remind me of what can happen when a country turns from free democratic principles to Fascism, when a few madmen turn human beings into digits and millions sit in silence and do nothing about it. 
Miller waits.  Bill waits.  Jim comes forward with his reply. 
JIM Mr. Miller, you and I have met under a great misunderstanding.  I haven't the remotest interest in becoming a Federal Judge.  And nothing is going to keep me from going ahead with my investigation of John Kennedy's murder. 
Miller's entire demeanor tightens into a corkscrew of anger and danger. 
JIM Bill, Mr. Miller and I have finished our conversation.  Would you show him out? 
Bill has a strange reaction - a sudden exhalation of breath as if an entire house of cards were collapsing.  He rises, but Miller goes first, leaving silently.  Once he's gone, Bill turns wearily to Jim. 
JIM Those bastards!  That's proof enough right there of what we're up against. The whole goddamn Federal Government, Bill! 
BILL Well, they offered you the carrot, and you turned it down... you know what's coming next, don't you, boss? 
GARRISON'S CONFERENCE ROOM - ANOTHER DAY(1967) 
The staff is assembled.  We see the headline in the Times- Picayune, which says: "FERRIE CALLS GARRISON PROBE A WITCH HUNT." 
LOU Boss, I tell you something or somebody is putting tremendous heat on David Ferrie.  If we sit on our behinds any longer, I don't think the guy's going to hold on. 
SUSIE (raps the newspaper) Look at this bullshit!  He keeps changing what he says.  We can't possibly call him to a Grand Jury. 
JIM Susie, watch the language, would you please. 
AL My instinct is that Ferrie is going to keep on deteriorating, and we'll end up getting more out of him when he finally cracks.  If we call him now, he might freeze up and we could lose the best shot we've ever had. 
LOU You don't get it, guys - he can't go down any further.  We got to protect him full time. 
JIM (rises, looks at his watch) I have a plane to catch... going to Washington.  An interesting lead, says he's closely connected to these events, but he won't come down here... I know what you're going through with Ferrie, Lou.  We'll talk tomorrow. 
LOU I'm onto Ferrie's Cuban paymaster, Eladio del Valle, in Miami.  I gotta get him in, boss.  I need more men - I can't even pull the teams to watch Ferrie... This is our case! 
Numa rushes in with a young investigator, Williams - displaying a miniature microphone. 
NUMA HOLD IT, CHIEF... 
JIM (to Lou) You just need some sleep, Lou.  It won't look so bad when... 
Numa makes violent signals to shut up - not to talk - sticking the microphone in front of Jim.  Williams searches the walls for the bug.  Numa signals everyone outside. 
GARRISON'S MAIN OFFICE The staff comes out into the office with Him, disturbed. 
JIM What the hell is... 
NUMA Williams found this in your office... We think the conference room is also bugged.  And maybe the phones.  The whole place needs debugging. 
The whole staff from the conference room reacts.  Jim looks stunned. 
JIM I don't believe it! 
SUSIE Bugging the District Attorney's office of New Orleans!  It's outrageous! 
Sharon has been standing there trying to get Lou's attention. 
As Jim, questioned by reporters, gets in his car and leaves, Bill waves goodbye to Lou and walks toward his own car, dejected.  The area is cordoned off and humming with activity. Frank, an FBI man who knows Bill from previous cases, approaches him out of the crowd.  He wears a hat, suit, and tie. 
FRANK Bill. 
BILL Hey, where y'at, Frank?  You're wasting your time here.  Big Jim gave strict orders.  No FBI allowed. 
FRANK It's you I want to talk to, Bill. 
BILL (laughs) Boss would fry me in hog fat if he knew... (motions to car) 
FRANK (getting in the car) Your boss got a serious problem, Bill.  Real serious.  We know what's been going on at your office 
BILL (smiles) Yeah, I guess you do. 
FRANK You've got nothin', Bill.  I'm talking as a friend now.  You're riding on the Titanic.  Time to jump off before you get destroyed along with Garrison. 
BILL Frank, I don't want to hear it. 
FRANK Senator Long set your boss up, my friend. 
This gets Bill's attention. 
FRANK Who do you think fed him that information?  Garrison's going down. We're talking your career here, Bill, your life.  You're a young guy... we know you're working that Castro thing. 
BILL No, I'm not... 
FRANK Yes, you are.  Look we know Oswald didn't pull that trigger.  Castro did.  But if that comes out, there's gonna be a war, boy - millions of people are gonna die.  That's a hell of a lot more important than Jim Garrison. (suddenly) Goddammit, look at me when I talk to you!  You're too goddamn self- opinionated, now shut up.  If you got a brain in that thick skull of yours, listen to me.  Listen real hard. 
Bill, taken aback, listens. 
WASHINGTON D.C. - PARK(1967) 
Jim walks down from the Lincoln Memorial, where he is met unobtrusively by a military man in his 50's in casual clothing, hat on his head, an erect posture.  They walk towards the Mall, with the Capitol building looming in the background. 
X Jim Garrison? 
JIM Yes. 
X (shakes hands) I'm glad you came.  I'm sorry about the precautions. 
JIM Well, I just hope it was worth my while, Mr... 
The man doesn't answer.  Jim, after his meeting with Miller and loss of Ferrie, is testy and suspicious. 
X I could give you a false name, but I won't.  Just call me X. 
JIM I've already been warned by the Agency, Mr. Whoever.  If this is another type of threat, I don't... 
X I'm not with the Agency, Mr. Garrison, and I assume if you've come this far, what I have to say interests you.  But I'm not going to name names, or tell you who or what I represent. Except to say - you're close, you're closer than you think... 
Something about his manner speaks of authority, knowledge, and above all, old-fashioned honesty - the eyes looking at you straight on.  He indicates a bench. 
X Everything I'm going to tell you is classified top secret... (significant look) I was a soldier, Mr. Garrison.  Two wars.  I was one of those secret guys in the Pentagon that supplies the military hardware - the planes, bullets, rifles - for what we call "black operations" - "black ops", assassinations, coup d'etats, rigging elections, propoganda, psych warfare and so forth.  World War II - Rumania, Greece, Yugoslavia, I helped take the Nazi intelligence apparatus out to help us fight the Communists. Italy '48 stealing elections, France '49 breaking strikes - we overthrew Quirino in the Philippines, Arbenz in Guatemala, Mossadegh in Iran. Vietnam in '54, Indonesia '58, Tibet '59 we got the Dalai Lama out - we were good, very good.  Then we got into the Cuban thing.  Not so good. Set up all the bases for the invasion supposed to take place in October '62.  Khrushchev sent the missiles to resist the invasion, Kennedy refused to invade and we were standing out there with our dicks in the wind. Lot of pissed-off people, Mr. Garrison, you understand?  I'll come to that later... I spent much of September '63 working on the Kennedy plan for getting all U.S.  personnel out of Vietnam by the end of '65. This plan was one of the strongest and most important papers issued from the Kennedy White House.  Our first 1,000 troops were ordered home for Christmas.  Tensions were high. In November '63, one week after the murder of Vietnamese President Diem in Saigon, and two weeks before the assassination of our President... 
FLASHBACK TO the Pentagon offices in 1963.  X strides down a busy hall and into the offices of one of his superiors, Major General Y, a lean, cold warrior, battlefield handsome, civilian clothes, and several advisors.  There's a U.S. flag on the wall.  The status of Y is only clear by the sing on the desk, the name blocked by a passing figure. 
X ...a strange thing happened.  I was sent by my superior officer, call him Y, to the South Pole as the military escort for a group of international VIP's.  This trip had nothing to do with my nine years of work in Special Operations.  It was sort of a "paid vacation". 
We hear vague ad-lib mutterings on the soundtrack indicating a friendly atmosphere, and we see stock footage of a C-130 transport flying to Antarctica and ice floes on the surface of the sea. 
Then, at a New Zealand airport, we see X, in a uniform, at a newsstand reading of Kennedy's assassination.  The banner headline of an "Extra" edition of The Christchurch Star screams out "KENNEDY SHOT DEAD." 
X It wasn't until I was on my way back in New Zealand that I read of the President's murder.  That was 2 in the afternoon the next day New Zealand time, but already the papers had the entire history of an unknown 24-year- old man, Oswald - a studio picture, detailed biographical data, Russian information - and were pretty sure of the fact he'd killed the President alone, although it took them four more hours to charge him with the murder in Texas.  It felt as if, well, a cover story was being put out like we would in a black op. 
Back at the Pentagon office, we see X returning and meeting Y.  The atmosphere is cordial, but Y is slightly different from before - more harried, more nervous.  He turns away to light a cigarette, he doesn't want the usual conversation. 
X Anyway, after I came back I asked myself why was I, the chief of special ops, selected to travel to the South Pole at that time to do a job that any number of others could have done? One of my routine duties if I had been in Washington would've been to arrange for additional security in Texas.  The Secret Service is relatively small, and by custom the military will augment them.  I checked it out when I got back and sure enough, I found out someone had told the 112th Military Intelligence Group at 4th Army Headquarters at Fort Sam Houston to "stand down" that day, over the protests of the unit Commander, a Colonel Reich... 
We see an outdoor shot of the Texas Army Headquarters on a day in 1963.  Inside, on the same day, Col. Reich is on the phone, puzzled. 
X Now this is significant, because it is standard operating procedure, especially in a known hostile city like Dallas, to supplement the Secret Service.  Even if we had not allowed the bubbletop to be removed from the limousine, we'd've put at least 100 to 200 agents on the sidewalks, without question!  There'd already been several attempts on de Gaulle's life in France.  Only a month before in Dallas UN Ambassador Adlai Stevenson had been spit on and hit. We'd have arrived days ahead of time, studied the route, checked all the buildings... We never would've allowed all those wide-open empty windows overlooking Dealey... never...  We would have had our own snipers covering the area.  The moment a window went up they'd have been on the radio.  We would've been watching the crowds - packages, rolled up newspapers, a coat over an arm, never would have let a man open an umbrella along the way - Never would've allowed that limousine to slow down to 10 miles per hour, much less take that unusual curve at Houston and Elm.  You would have felt an Army presence in the streets that day, but none of this happened.  It was a violation of the most basic protection codes we have. And it is the best indication of a massive plot in Dallas.  Who could have best done that?  People in my business, Mr. Garrison.  People like my superior officer could've told Col. Reich, "Look - we have another unit coming from so and so providing security.  You'll stand down."  That day, in fact, there were some individual Army Intelligence people in Dallas and I'm still trying to figure out who and why.  But they weren't protecting the client.  One of them, by the way, was caught in the Book Depository after police sealed it off. 
In Dealey Plaza, 1963, we see an Army intelligence man taking a shot with a Minolta camera. 
X Army Intell had a "Harvey Lee Oswald" on file, but all those files have been destroyed.  Many strange things were happening that day, and Lee Harvey Oswald had nothing to do with them.  We had the entire Cabinet on a trip to the Far East.  We had a third of a combat division returning from Germany in the air above the United States at the time of the shooting, and at 12:34 P.M., the entire telephone system went dead in Washington for a solid hour, and on the plane back to Washington, word was radioed from the White House Situation Room to Lyndon Johnson that one individual performed the assassination.  Does that sound like a bunch of coincidences to you, Mr. Garrison?  Not for one moment.  The cabinet was out of the country to get their perception out of the way. The troops were in the air for possible riot control.  The phones didn't work to keep the wrong stories from spreading if anything went wrong with the plan.  Nothing was left to chance.  I bet you there were even backup teams and cars on the other side of the underpass in the event that Kennedy got through wounded. They would have moved in with vehicles like they did with de Gaulle.  He could not be allowed to escape alive. 
The camera is on Jim, listening.  This information is much greater than he ever envisioned, and he is stunned.  X pauses. 
X I never though things were the same after that.  Vietnam started for real.  There was an air of, I don't know, make-believe in the Pentagon and the CIA.  Those of us who'd been in secret ops since the beginning knew the Warren Commission was fiction, but there was something... deeper, uglier.  And I knew Allen Dulles very well.  I briefed him many a time in his house.  He was also General Y's benefactor.  But for the life of me I still can't figure out why Dulles was appointed to investigate Kennedy's death.  The man who had fired him.  I got out in '64.  I retired from the U.S. Air Force. 
JACKIE KENNEDY I never realized Kennedy was so dangerous to the establishment.  Is that why? 
X (chuckles) That's the real question, isn't it - "Why?" - the "how" is just "scenery" for the suckers...  Oswald, Ruby, Cuba, Mafia, it keeps people guessing like a parlor game, but it prevents them from asking the most important question - Why?  Why was Kennedy killed?  Who benefitted?  Who has the power to cover it up?... You know in '61 right after the Bay of Pigs - very few people know about this - I participated in drawing up National Security Action Memos 55, 56, and 57.  These are crucial documents, classified top secret, but basically in them Kennedy instructs General Lemnitzer, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, that from here on forward... 
FLASHBACK TO the Pentagon offices on a day in 1961.  A document is moved by hand into Lemnitzer's office where we see a set of hands holding it while it's read.  There's a look of surprise on Lemnitzer's face. 
X ... the Joint Chiefs of Staff would be wholly responsible for all covert paramilitary action in peacetime. This basically ended the reign of the CIA - "splintered it", as J.F.K. promised he would, into a "thousand pieces", - and now was ordering the military to help.  This was unprecedented.  I can't tell you the shock waves this sent along the corridors of power in Washington. This and, of course, firing Allen Dulles, Richard Bissell, and General Charles Cabell, all of them sacred cows of Intell since World War II. You got some very upset people here. 
DOCUMENTARY IMAGES flash on the screen - Allen Dulles, sweet- faced, smiling, at the Warren Commission Hearing and visiting Dealey Plaza; General Charles Cabell and Richard Bissell... 
X Kennedy's directives were never really implemented, because of bureaucratic resistance, but one of the results was that the Cuban operation was turned over to my department as "Operation Mongoose", which meant that people like my superior officer, General Y, took over the Cuban personnel that were being trained to invade Cuba - and the bases like the training camp at Pontchartrain in your home state that were closed down by Kennedy... and that's how the "black ops" people, people like General Y, ended up taking the rules of covert warfare they'd used abroad and brought'em into this country. Now they had the people, the equipment, bases and the motivation... check out an old CIA man, Bill Harvey - ran something called "Executive Action", which carried out foreign assassinations.  Harvey was also involved with the fake defection program that got Oswald into Russia. Check out the Cabell brothers. Interesting links to this case. 
At Arlington Cemetery on the same day, Jim visits the grave of President Kennedy.  We see the eternal flame.  Jim thinks about what he should do now.  The size of it stuns him.  He is lost, reeling back to the past in his mind. 
DISSOLVE TO DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE of Dachau concentration camp: thousands of bodies are piled and bulldozed... And then back to Jim at Arlington Cemetery reliving it... only the enormity of past evil can prepare him to confront present evil.  In a strange way, it reassures him. 
X ...don't underestimate the budget cuts Kennedy called for in March of '63 either - close to 52 military installations in 25 states, 21 overseas bases, you're talking big money.  You know how many helicopters have been lost in Vietnam?  About three thousand so far.  Who makes them?  Bell Helicopter.  Who owns Bell?  Bell was near bankruptcy when the First National Bank of Boston approached the CIA about developing the helicopter for Indochina usage. How 'bout the f-111 fighters?  General Dynamics in Fort Worth.  Who owns that?  Find out the defense budget since the war began.  $75 going on a hundred billion ... $200 billion'll be spent before it ends.  In 1950 it was $13 billion.  No war, no money. Sometimes I think the organizing principle of any society is for war. The authority of the state over it's people resides in it's war powers. Even Eisenhower - military hero of WWII - warned us about it: "beware the military - industrial complex", he said.  Kennedy wanted to end the Cold War in his second term.  He wanted to call of the moon race in favor of cooperation with the Soviets. He signed a treaty with the Soviets to ban nuclear testing, he refused to invade Cuba in '62, and he set out to withdraw from Vietnam.  But that all ended on November 22, 1963. 
Julia Ann Mercer, 28, looks at Jim with sincere eyes.  Her husband, a prosperous Republican businessman, watches from the corner.  Jim - along with Al - has her testimony in front of him. 
JIM In the sheriff's report, Mrs. Mercer, it says you were at Dealey Plaza two hours before the assassination but that... 
MERCER Yes, it was about 11 in the morning. I was driving west on Elm Street toward the Triple Underpass, in a rented car - a blue Valiant.  I'll never forget that day. 
FLASHBACK TO Dealey Plaza in 1963.  It's a normal scene - cars, traffic, people starting to arrive for Kennedy's appearance.  We catch a glimpse of Julia Ann Mercer, 23, driving, then stopping traffic. 
MERCER ...there was quite a bit of traffic and I was stopped alongside a green pickup truck.  It was very noticeable because it was blocking traffic and it was parked with two wheels on the curb.  When I saw the gun, I thought - the Secret Service is not very secret. 
She glances over at the man in the driver's seat.  It's Jack Ruby, wearing a green jacket.  Then she sees a young white man in his mid - 20's, in a gray jacket, brown pants, plaid shirt and wool stocking hat, getting out of the passenger side, going to the rear of the van, opening a tool compartment and removing a package that looks like a rifle wrapped in paper.  He walks up the embankment in the direction of the picket fence.  Ruby looks over and stares at Julia Ann, who turns away and notices three police officers standing near a motorcycle on the overpass bridge.  Her eyes lock with Ruby's a second time and as the traffic moves, she drives on. 
MERCER The next morning, Saturday, I went to the FBI office and the agents showed me photographs... 
In the Dallas FBI office, Mercer sits at a table looking at photos.  Two FBI agents stand near her showing her photos. She shakes her head "no" several times, until they put a shot of Jack Ruby in front of her.  She holds it up. 
MERCER I picked out three pictures that looked generally like the driver of the truck and then... 
MERCER That's the man. 
FBI AGENT (to Second Agent) Jack Ruby. 
SECOND AGENT What about these others?  You said they might be him. 
MERCER They look a little like him.  But no, (holding up the Ruby photo) I'm sure this is the man. 
Back in the present, Jim continues to question Mercer. 
JIM You mean you identified him on Saturday, the day before Ruby shot Oswald? 
MERCER That's right.  When I saw him on TV, I was shocked.  I said to my family, "that was the man I saw in the truck." 
JIM (skeptical) But you didn't seem nearly so sure in your statement to the Warren Commission. 
MERCER That's what bothers me, Mr. Garrison. You see, they've been altered.  My statements... 
Jim is silent.  Mercer picks up the report and finds the pertinent paragraphs: 
MERCER This says "Mercer could not identify any of the photographs as being identical with the person she had observed slouched over the wheel of a green Ford pickup truck."  That's not true.  I recognized him and I told them so... They also said it was a dark green air conditioning truck, which it was not.  And here... (she goes to another report) ...on the Dallas Sheriff's report. This is really strange.  See that notarized signature on the bottom of each page?  That's not my signature. And there never was any notary present during any of my questioning. (she hands the papers back to Jim) I guess that's all... 
JIM Mrs. Mercer, as a former FBI man, it's difficult to accept this. 
MERCER I know, but Mr. Garrison, the FBI is just not doing their job. 
HUSBAND I'm a Republican, Mr. Garrison, and I don't go in for this kind of government bashing, but I must tell you something's not right when they don't even bother to call Julia in front of the Warren Commission. 
JIM They didn't call a lot of people, Mr. Mercer.  I think it's safe to say the Warren Report is a work of fiction. 
DALLAS CLUB - NIGHT(1967) 
BEVERLY, a woman of ample proportions and a big, cute Texas face, ex-club singer, meets with Jim and Lou Ivon in a nightclub not unlike Ruby's Carousel. 
LOU Beverly, tell Mr. Garrison about the Carousel club. 
BEVERLY (V.O.) Oh yes, I used to go over there a lot to see Jack and especially my friend Jada who danced there.  It was the real swinging spot in town. Everybody came.  Businessmen, politicians from Austin, Lyndon Johnson's friends... Dallas was a slow town back then.  You chewed toothpicks, played dominos, spit and dated policemen.  But Jack's was exciting.  There were always cops there.  Jack liked 'em around, but he used to throw the drunks out himself, 'cause he was kinda a violent- tempered man... it seemed everybody in those days knew Jack was with the Mob.  The cops were "bad" back then - they'd shake you down for the money in your pocket.  They put a lotta people in the cemetery, especially colored people. 
LOU Beverly, what about Lee? 
Jada and Beverly sit down at the table with Ferrie, Oswald, and Jack, with Jack doing the buying.  It's too loud to hear anything. 
BEVERLY (V.O.) Oh, yeah.  One time I came in, Jack introduces me to these two guys.  He said, "Beverly, this is my friend Lee..." and I didn't catch the other guy's name.  He was a weird-looking guy with those funny little eyebrows. The other guy, Lee, didn't make much of an impression either.  He wasn't good-looking or nuthin', he didn't look like he had any money, and he was in a bad mood, so I didn't pay him much mind.  Well, I might not remember a name, but I always remember a face.  When I saw him tow weeks later on the television, I screamed, "Oh, my God - that's him!  That's Jack's friend!"  I knew right then it had something to do with the Mafia... Well, about a week later, after she told the newspapers she'd met this guy Lee with Jack, Jada disappears off the face of the Earth... 
THE CAMERA MOVES IN ON JADA 
BEVERLY (V.O.) Never knew what happened to her till Herman offered to sell me her wardrobe.  I said, "but Jada's coming back," and I remember the way he smiled... and I knew she was never coming back. 
BACK TO the 1967 scene. 
JIM Will you testify,  Beverly? 
BEVERLY I don't think so, sir. 
LOU I thought when we came here, we had an agreement. 
BEVERLY I just don't want to become another statistic like her.  If they can kill the President, do you think they're gonna think twice about a two-bit showgirl like me? 
LOU We could call you in, Beverly. 
JIM I know the pressure you're under, Beverly.  Don't think I don't. (as he exits) I understand. 
DISSOLVE TO DEALEY PLAZA(1967) 
Our view is from the roof of the building on the extreme south side of the Plaza.  J.C. Price, the building engineer, in hat and overalls, points for Jim and Lou. 
PRICE (V.O.) ...yes, sir, right here on this spot. The shots came from near that wooden fence over there, near the overpass. 
The camera tightens on the picket fence. 
PRICE I saw a man run from this spot and go behind the Book Depository - 30 minutes later I gave this information to the Sheriff. 
On the overpass near Dealey Plaza, S.M. Holland, a tan, elderly, leather-faced signal supervisor, points to the picket fence for Jim and Lou.  His accent is thick and rural.  We saw him before, briefly, when Jim was reading the Warren Report. 
HOLLAND I made it very clear to the Warren people one of the shots came from behind that picket fence.  I heard the report and saw the smoke come out about 6 or 8 feet above the ground, right out from under those trees.  There is no doubt whatsoever in my mind... 
FLASHBACK TO the restaged shooting.  The smoke hangs under the trees. 
CUT TO Richard Dodd on the overpass.  He's a cowboy type with a hat and an even thicker accent than Holland. 
BILL (to Susie) Maybe I have a little more respect for this country's institutions than you do, Susie.  You tell me how the hell you can keep a conspiracy going between the Mob, the CIA, FBI, and Army Intelligence and who knows what else, when you know you can't even keep a secret in this room between 12 people!  We got leaks everywhere! We're going to trial here!  What the hell do we really got?  Oswald, Ruby, Banister, Ferrie are dead.  Shaw - maybe he's an agent, I don't know, but as a covert operator in my book he's wide open for blackmail 'cause of his homosexuality. 
JIM Shaw's our toehold, Bill.  I don't know exactly what he is, where he fits, and I don't care.  I do know he's lying through his teeth and I'm not gonna let go of him! 
BILL So for those reasons, you're going to trial against Clay Shaw, chief? Well, you're gonna lose!  We should be investigating all our Mafia leads here in New Orleans - Carlos Marcello, Santos Trafficante - I can buy that a hell of a lot easier than the Government.  Ruby's all Mob, knows Oswald, sets him up.  Hoffa - Trafficante - Marcello, they hire some guns and they do Kennedy and maybe the Government doesn't want to open up a whole can o'worms there because it used the Mob to get to Castro.  Y'know, Castro being assassinated sounds pretty wild to John Q.  Citizen.  So they close the book on J.F.K.  It makes sense to me. 
JIM I don't doubt their involvement, Bill, but at a low level.  Could the Mob change the parade route, Bill, or eliminate the protection for the President?  Could the Mob send Oswald to Russia and get him back?  Could the Mob get the FBI, the CIA, and the Dallas Police to make a mess of the investigation?  Could the Mob appoint the Warren Commission to cover it up?  Could the Mob wreck the autopsy?  Could the Mob influence the national media to go to sleep? And since when has the Mob used anything but .38's for hits, up close? The Mob wouldn't have the guts or the power for something of this magnitude.  Assassins need payrolls, orders, times, schedules.  This was a military-style ambush from start to finish... a coup d'etat with Lyndon Johnson waiting in the wings. 
BILL Oh, now you're saying Lyndon Johnson was involved?  The President of the United States? 
His voice is challenging.  There's a pause.  The men exchange looks and wait. 
JIM I know this, Bill - Lyndon Johnson got $1 billion for his Texas friends, Brown and Root, to dredge Cam Ranh Bay for the military in Vietnam. That's just for openers. 
BILL Boss, are you calling the President a murderer? 
JIM If I'm so far from the truth, why is the FBI bugging our offices?  Why are our witnesses being bought off and murdered?  Why are Federal agencies blocking our extraditions and subpoenas when we were never blocked before? 
BILL Maybe 'cause there's some rogue element in the Government! 
The others in the room groan at the reasoning.  Bill feels embittered, cornered. 
JIM With a full-blown conspiracy to cover it up?  Y'ever read your Shakespeare, Bill? 
BILL Yeah. 
JIM Julius Caesar:  "Brutus and Cassius, they too are honorable men."  Who killed Caesar?  Twenty, twenty-five Senators.  All it takes is one Judas, Bill - a few people, on the inside, Pentagon, CIA... 
BILL (he gets up) This is Louisiana, chief.  How the hell do you know who your daddy is? 'Cause your momma told you so... You're way out there taking a crap in the wind, boss, and I for one ain't going along on this one. (he exits) Jim sighs, saddened.  Bill was one of his best men. 
LOU Chief, I've had my doubts about Bill for a long time.  He's fighting everything. 
JIM We need him back. 
AL Bill wasted a goddamn month trying to prove that mob boys like Barding and Jack Ruby played ball in right field with Hunt Oil. 
LOU I don't trust the guy. 
JIM (standing) Gentlemen, I will not hear this.  I value Bill as much as anyone here. (Lou reacts angrily) We all need to make room for someone else's ideas, Lou, especially me. Maybe Oswald is what everyone says he is and I'm just plain dumb wrong. 
AL I've seen him copying files, leaving here late at night. 
LOU I just plain don't trust him anymore. 
JIM (angry) Maybe you didn't hear what I said. I will not tolerate this infighting among the staff, I warn you that... 
LOU (suddenly) Boss, then I'm afraid I can't continue working with Bill. 
Tension, silence. 
JIM (pause, then quietly) Are you giving me an ultimatum, Lou? 
LOU Well, if that's what you want to call it.  I didn't ever think it would come to this.  I guess I am, boss. 
JIM I will not have any damned ultimatums put to me, Lou.  I'll accept your resignation. 
LOU You sure got it.  You're one stubborn and stupid sonofabitch D.A. and you're making one hell of a mistake! 
He storms out. 
SUSIE Aren't you being a little hard? 
JIM No, I don't think I am, Susie.  Anyone else? 
GARRISON'S LIVING ROOM - (1968) 
It's after dinner and toys scattered around the living room. Snapper is chasing his sister Elizabeth around.  Virginia, 6, runs to the ringing phone in the living room, as her mother and Mattie, stunned, watch the news of Martin Luther King's death on TV. 
MATTIE My God!  My God!  What have they done! (angrily) It's lynchin' time! 
VIRGINIA I'll get it. (into phone) Hello. 
MALE VOICE Hello.  Is this Jim Garrison's daughter? 
VIRGINIA Yes? 
MALE VOICE Virginia or Elizabeth? 
VIRGINIA Virginia. 
MALE VOICE Virginia, you're a lucky little girl. Your daddy has entered you in a beauty contest.  Would you like to be in a beauty contest? 
VIRGINIA That sounds fun. 
MALE VOICE I need some information from you then.  How old are you? 
VIRGINIA Six. 
MALE VOICE And how tall are you? 
CUT TO Jim's study, where Jim also watches the news in horror. We see TV images of Martin Luther King on the motel balcony, dead. 
NEWSMAN 9 To repeat - 39-year-old Martin Luther King, who preached non-violence and won the Nobel Peace Prize, was cut down earlier today by a sniper's bullets while standing on the porch of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee.  He was surrounded by his closest aides.  The police say they have no suspects at this time.  Mr. King... 
Jim, visibly shaken, slams his book down on the desk in frustration. 
BACK TO the male voice on the phone. 
JIM Yes, of course I do, honey. 
VIRGINIA No.  I mean like mommy loves us. She really loves us. 
JASPER I'm scared. 
JIM (bending down) There's nothing wrong with feeling a little scared, Jasper, Virginia. Telling the truth can be a scary thing.  It scared President Kennedy, but he was a brave man.  If you let yourself be too scared, then you let the bad guys take over the country, don't you - and then everybody gets scared. 
JASPER/VIRGINIA Stay with Mom, Daddy... please. 
JERRY JOHNSON SHOW - (1968) 
The band strikes up "When the Saints Go Marching In" introducing Jim, who strides in from the wings to shake hands with Jerry Johnson, the friendly-looking host. 
SIDEKICK And now, Jerry, here's Big Jim Garrison, District Attorney of New Orleans, Louisiana. 
The audience is enthusiastic.  Jim smiles and waves, then sits down next to Johnson. 
JOHNSON Welcome, District Attorney Garrison. May I call you Jim? 
JIM I've been called everything under the sun, Jerry.  Call me whatever you like. 
He reads from a script on the desk. 
JOHNSON First we had your charge that the Cuban exiles killed the President, then the Mob, then you said the oil billionaires did it, then you said the Minutemen and the Ku Klux Klan collaborated to do it, now your latest theory seems to be that the CIA and the FBI and the Pentagon and the White House all combined in some elaborate conspiracy to kill John Kennedy.  Let me ask you, is there anyone besides Lee Harvey Oswald who you think did not conspire to kill the President? 
He fixes his eyes on Jim, waiting for a reply.  A weariness has set in on Jim.  Once more into the slaughter. 
JIM How many hours do I have to answer that one?  Well let's just say this, Jerry - I've stopped beating my wife. (the audience laughs) Or maybe you should ask Lyndon Johnson.  We know he has some answers. 
The audience, loving it, cheers.  Johnson looks at Jim blankly, and reads the next question on his list. 
JOHNSON There have been a number of reports in reputable news media - Time, Newsweek, our own NBC - that you have gone way beyond the legal means available to a prosecutor, that you've intimidated and drugged witnesses, bribed them, urged them to commit perjury.  What is your response? 
JIM Your faith in the veracity of the major media is touching, Jerry.  It indicates that the Age of Innocence is not yet over.  But seriously, Jerry, people aren't interested in Jim Garrison - they want the hard evidence!  They want to know why he was killed and what forces were opposed to... 
JOHNSON (interrupting) Some people would say you're paranoid. 
JIM Well, if I am, why is the Government concealing evidence? 
JOHNSON Are they?  Why would they? 
JIM (pulling out his briefcase) That's exactly my question, Jerry. Maybe I'd better show you some pictures so you can begin to understand what I am talking about. 
He pulls out a large blowup of the Allen photo of the three hoboes and starts to hold it up in front of the camera. 
JIM These arrests were photographed minutes after the assassination, and were never shown to the American public.  They show... 
It takes Johnson a few moments to realize what's happening. When he does, he lunges like a cobra for the photographs, pulling Jim's arm down so the pictures are out of the camera's view. 
JOHNSON (sharply) Pictures like this don't show up on television! 
JIM (holding the picture up again) Sure they do.  The camera can pick this up. 
JOHNSON (yanking his arm down) No, it can't! 
Jim swings the picture up a third time, but the stage director gives a "cut" signal - finger across the throat - and the red light on the camera blinks off.  The monitor shows another camera panning the audience. 
JIM (quickly realizes he's about to be cut off) Those men you just saw were arrested in Dallas minutes after the assassination.  They were never seen again.  No record of arrest, no fingerprint, no mugshot, nothing. They all got away. 
The director frantically gives Johnson the "cut" sign. 
JOHNSON We'll be back after these messages. 
The audience cheers as the commercial comes on. 
GARRISON'S HOME - (1968) 
Jim comes home.  His wife and two of the children are waiting in the doorway.  They kiss.  Al Oser interrupts. 
AL Jim, bad news.  Bill's turned, boss. I think he's given everything we've got to the Feds. 
NUMA We studied the memos - there was nothing there, chief, nothing!  When we went to confront him, the landlady said that sonofabitch just took off, left everything. 
SUSIE I'm sorry. 
JIM I know. 
LIZ (to Jim) I'm sorry. 
NUMA Something sure scared him. 
JIM Bill doesn't scare that easy. Somebody got to his thinking.  He was never that good a thinker. 
On the TV, the news is on. 
NEWSMAN 9 Much is at stake tonight in California.  Public opinion polls show Senator Robert Kennedy of New York leading Senator Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota.  Their anti-Vietnam War message is obviously striking a chord with the voters, and whoever wins tonight will certainly emerge as the favorite over Vice-President Humphrey to win the nomination in Chicago in August.  That man now seems to be Senator Kennedy. 
We see a shot of Robert Kennedy in Los Angeles with his supporters. 
NUMA Sure sounds like he's winning. 
JIM He'll never make it.  If he wins, they'll kill him.  He wants to avenge his brother.  He'll stop that war. No, they'll kill him before they let him become President. 
Liz shares a look with Al and Numa. 
AL Boss, with Broussard they have everything.  All our witnesses, our strategy for the trial.  We'd have to doublecheck all his work, there could be false leads... we gotta rethink this trial. 
DYMOND Why? 
GOLDBERG Well, I wanted to make sure she's the same girl I sent. 
DYMOND I see... and why are you experiencing this paranoia? 
GOLDBERG (launching into his explanation) Well, you see, I've been subject to hypnosis and psychological warfare ever since 1948, when I was in Korea... 
We see the faces of people in the courtroom... the judge's face... obviously Goldberg is disturbed (or maybe he is telling the truth, but it doesn't play well)... Jim looks at Al sickly. 
AL He was one of Broussard's witnesses, chief.  I'm sorry.  He was totally sane when we took his affidavit. 
SUSIE But how does Dymond know what to ask?  FUCK!  We're dead. 
GOLDBERG When someone tries to get your attention - catch your eye - that's a clue right off. 
TIME CUT TO Jim calling Officer Habighorst to testify. 
GARRISON Your Honor, I call police officer Aloysisus Habighorst to the stand. 
Habighorst, the clean-cut police officer who booked Clay Shaw on the day of his arrest, starts forward. 
JUDGE HAGGERTY I'm going to have to ask the jury to leave the courtroom. 
GARRISON What? 
This is an ugly surprise for Jim.  We see him at the bench arguing loudly with the judge.  Susie, Dymond and Al are also there. 
JUDGE HAGGERTY I'm sorry, Jim, but the defendant did not have his lawyer present when asked. 
FLASHBACK TO 1967, in the New Orleans police station.  Shaw is being booked.  The press is there and Habighorst is questioning him. 
HABIGHORST Any alias? 
SHAW Clay Bertrand. 
We see a close-up on Habighorst typing this in. 
GARRISON (V.O.) Jesus, Ed, from time immemorial it's been standard booking procedure to ask an alias.  You know that.  There's no constitutional requirement that says a lawyer has to be present for routine questions. 
JUDGE HAGGERTY I call'em as I see'em, Jim.  I'm ruling it inadmissible. 
GARRISON That's our case! 
JUDGE HAGGERTY If that's your case, you didn't have a case.  I wouldn't believe whatever Habighorst said, anyway. 
GARRISON I can't believe you're saying this in the courtroom. 
JUDGE HAGGERTY (feistier) Well, I am saying it.  Bring in the jury. 
AL We're filing for a writ to the appellate court. 
JUDGE HAGGERTY You do that. 
Dymond goes back to Shaw, very please.  Shaw smokes, icy. Jim, devastated, sits, feeling it's over. 
CUT TO Clay Shaw on the stand.  Dymond cross-examines him. 
DYMOND ...Oswald? 
SHAW No, I did not. 
DYMOND ...ever called Dean Andrews? 
SHAW No, I did not. 
DYMOND ...and have you ever met David Ferrie? 
SHAW (with a smirk of amusement) No, I would not even know what he looked like except for the pictures I've been shown. 
DYMOND ...did you ever use the alias Clay Bertrand? 
SHAW No, I did not. 
DYMOND Thank you... Mr. Shaw. 
Jim rises slowly out of his chair. 
JIM Well, a very great actor has just given us a great performance, Your Honor, but we are nowhere closer to the truth.  Let it be noted, my office is charging Clay Shaw with outright perjury on the fifteen answers he has given, not one word of this... 
JUDGE HAGGERTY You're out of order, Jim Boy, now sit down.  Strike those remarks!! 
CUT TO later in the trial.  A movie screen has been installed for the jury.  Jim paces dramatically, as if waiting, casting looks at the door.  Members of the press pack the hot room, and a fan turns overhead. 
JIM To prove their was a conspiracy involving Clay Shaw we must prove there was more than one man involved in the assassination.  To do that, we must look at the Zapruder film, which my office has subpoenaed.  The American public has not seen that film because it has been kept locked in a vault in the Time-Life Building in New York City for the last five years.  There is a reason for that. Watch. 
The Zapruder film (8mm) now rolls.  We have seen pieces of it before in the opening of the film, but now we see it whole. It is crucial that this piece of film be repeated several times during the trial to drive home a point that is easily lost on casual viewing.  The first viewing is silent except for the sound of the clanky projector.  It lasts about 25 seconds, and then the lights come on.  The jury is shaken. The judge is shaken.  The people in the courtroom murmur. Even Clay Shaw is surprised at what he has seen.  Jim says nothing, letting the truth of it sink in.  Then: 
JIM A picture speaks a thousand words. Yet sometimes the truth is too simple for some...  The Warren Commission thought they had an open and shut case: three bullets, one assassin - but two things happened that made it virtually impossible: 1)the Zapruder film which you just saw, and 2)the third wounded man, Jim Tague, who was nicked by a fragment down by the Triple Underpass.  The time frame of 5.6 seconds established by the Zapruder film left no possibility of a fourth shot from Oswald's rifle, but the shot or fragment that left a superficial wound on Tague's cheek had to come from a bullet that missed the car entirely.  Now they had two bullets that hit, and we know one of them was the fatal head shot.  So a single bullet remained to account for all seven wounds in Kennedy and Connally.  But rather than admit to a conspiracy or investigate further, the Commission chose to endorse the theory put forth by an ambitious junior counsellor, Arlen Specter. One of the grossest lies ever forced on the American people, we've come to know it as the "magic bullet" theory. 
CUT TO a drawing which has been put on a chair for the Jury. Jim has also moved Al, acting as J.F.K., into a chair directly behind the larger Numa, acting as Governor Connally.  He demonstrates with a pointer. 
JIM The magic bullet enters the President's back, headed downward at an angle of 17 degrees.  It then moves upward in order to leave Kennedy's body from the front of his neck - his neck wound number two - where it waits 1.6 seconds, turns right and continues into Connally's body at the rear of his right armpit - wound number three.  Then, the bullet heads downward at an angle of 27 degrees, shattering Connally's fifth rib and leaving from the right side of his chest - wounds four and five. The bullet continues downward and then enters Connally's right wrist - wound number six - shattering the radius bone.  It then enters his left thigh - wound number seven - from which it later falls out and is found in almost "pristine" condition on a stretcher in a corridor of Parkland Hospital. (he shows a mock-up of the "pristine" bullet) That's some bullet.  Anyone who's been in combat can tell you never in the history of gunfire has there been a bullet like this. (the court laughs) The Army Wound Ballistics experts at Edgewood Arsenal fired some comparison bullets and not one of them looked anything like this one. (he shows mock-ups of comparison bullets) Take a look at CE 856, an identical bullet fired through the wrist of a human cadaver - just one of the bones smashed by the magic bullet.  Yet the government says it can prove this with some fancy physics in a nuclear laboratory.  Of course they can.  Theoretical physics can prove an elephant can hang from a cliff with it's tail tied to a daisy, but use your eyes - your common sense - (he holds the bullet) Seven wounds, skin, bone.  This single bullet explanation is the foundation of the Warren Commission's claim of a lone assassin.  And once you conclude the magic bullet could not create all seven of those wounds, you have to conclude there was a fourth shot and a second rifleman. And if there was a second rifleman, there had to be a conspiracy, which we believe involved the accused Clay Shaw.  Fifty-one witnesses, gentlemen of the jury, thought they heard shots coming from the Grassy Knoll, which is to the right and front of the President. 
Jim walks to a drawing of an overhead view of Dealey Plaza. On it are dots representing locations of the witnesses. He points to each portion.  He pauses and looks out into the courtroom - Liz has entered accompanied by Jasper.  Quietly she takes a seat.  Jim is unbelieving at first, then very moved.  He takes a beat, then: 
JIM Key witnesses that day - Charles Brehm, a combat vet, right behind Jean Hill and Mary Moorman, S.M. Holland and Richard Dodd on the overpass, J.C. Price overlooking the whole Plaza, Randolph Carr, a steelworker, who served in the Rangers in North Africa, William Newman, father of two children who hit the deck on the north side of Elm, Abraham Zapruder, James Simmons - each of these witnesses has no doubt whatsoever one or more shots came from behind the picket fence!  Twenty six trained medical personnel at Parkland Hospital saw with their own eyes the back of the President's head blasted out. 
Part of this team is a coordinator who's flashed security credentials at several people, chasing them out of the parking lot area. 
An "agent" in tie and suit moves on the underpass, keeping an eye out. 
In the crowd on Elm Street, we catch brief glimpses of the umbrella man and the Cuban, neither of them watching Kennedy, both looking around to their teams.  There is a third man, heavyset, in a construction helmet. 
JIM (V.O.) Probably two to three more men are down in the crowd on Elm... ten to twelve men... three teams, three shooters.  The triangulation of fire Clay Shaw and David Ferrie discussed two months before.  They've walked the Plaza, they know every inch. They've calibrated their sights, practiced on moving targets.  They're ready.  It's going to be a turkey shoot.  Kennedy's motorcade makes the turn from Main onto Houston. 
J.F.K. waves and turns in slow motion. 
JIM (V.O.) Six witnesses see two gunmen on the sixth floor of the Depository moving around.  Some of them think they're policemen with rifles. 
From Houston Street we look up at the sixth floor of the Book Depository and see the shooter moving around.  Arnold Rowland points him out to his wife. 
ARNOLD (under) ...probably a security agent. 
In the Dallas County Jail, Johnny Powell is one of many convicts housed on the sixth floor - the same height as the men in the Book Depository.  We look across to the Depository through cell bars.  Johnny and various cell mates are watching two men in the sixth floor of the Depository. 
JIM (V.O.) John Powell, a prisoner on the sixth floor of the Dallas County Jail, sees them. 
POWELL (under) ...quite a few of us saw them. Everybody was hollering and yelling and that.  We thought is was security guys... 
JIM (V.O.) ...they don't shoot him coming up Houston, which is the easiest shot for a single shooter in the Book Depository, but they wait till he gets to the killing zone between three rifles.  Kennedy makes the final turn from Houston onto Elm, slowing down to some 11 miles per hour. 
All the shooters tighten, taking aim.  It's a tense moment. 
JIM (V.O.) The shooters across Dealey Plaza tighten, taking their aim across their sights...  waiting for the radio to say "Green Green!" or "Abort Abort!" 
The camera is on Kennedy waving.  A MONTAGE follows - all the faces in the square that we've introduced in the movie now appear one after the other, watching - the killers, the man with the umbrella, the Newman family, Mary Moorman photographing, Jean Hill, Abraham Zapruder filming it, S.M. Holland, Patrolman Harkness... INTERCUT with the Zapruder and Nix films on J.F.K. in the final seconds coming abreast of the Stemmons Freeway sign. 
JIM (V.O.) The first shot rings out. 
CUT TO the Dal-Tex shooter firing.  We see the back of Kennedy's through his gun sight.  Kennedy (stand in) reacts in the Zapruder film. 
JIM (V.O.) Sounding like a backfire, it misses completely... Frame 161, Kennedy stops waving as he hears something. Connally turns his head slightly to the right. 
Everything goes off very fast now.  Repeating intercuts are slowed down with shots of Kennedy reacting in the Zapruder film. 
JIM (V.O.) Frame 193 - the second shot hits Kennedy in the throat from the front. Frame 225 - the President emerging from the road sign.  He obviously has been hit, raising his arms to his throat. 
CUT TO: the picket fence shooter hitting him from the fence. We see Kennedy (stand in) from the point of view of his telescopic sight.  In the Zapruder film, we see Kennedy clutch his throat. 
JIM Frame 232, the third shot - the President has been hit in the back, drawing him downward and forward. Connally, you will notice, shows no signs at all of being hit.  He is visibly holding his Stetson which is impossible if his wrist has been shattered. 
CUT TO: the Dal-Tex shooter.  We see Kennedy from his point of view, and the Zapruder film in slow motion. 
JIM (V.O.) Connally's turning now here.  Frame 238... the fourth shot misses Kennedy and takes Connally in the back. This is the key shot that proves two rifles from the rear.  This is 1.6 seconds after the third shot, and we know no manual bolt action rifle can be recycled in that time.  Connally is hit, his mouth drops, he yells out, "My God, they're going to kill us all"... Here... 
CUT TO: the sixth floor shooter firing rapidly and missing Kennedy but hitting Connally (stand in). 
JIM (V.O.) ...the umbrella man is signalling "He's not dead.  Keep shooting." James Tague down at the underpass is hit sometime now by another shot that misses. 
CUT TO: the umbrella man pumping his umbrella.  The Cuban is looking off.  The man on the curb in the construction helmet is looking not at J.F.K. but up at the Book Depository. 
JIM (V.O.) The car brakes.  The fifth and fatal shot - frame 313 - takes Kennedy in the head from the front... 
CUT TO the picket fence shooter.  We see J.F.K. from his point of view.  He fires, and then we see Kennedy in the Zapruder film flying backwards and to his left in a ferocious, conclusive spray of blood and brain tissue.  We repeat the shot. 
JIM (V.O.) This is the key shot.  Watch it again. The President going back to his left. Shot from the front and right. Totally inconsistent with the shot from the Depository.  Again - (repeats)... back and two the left. (he repeats it like a mantra)... back and to the left...  back and to the left. 
Kennedy's car speeds off.  Jackie is like a crawling animal in a pillbox hat on the back of the car.  The people on the other side of the underpass wave innocently as the car speeds through with it's horrifying contents.  Pigeons fly off the rooftop of the Book Depository. 
JIM (V.O.) What happens then?  Pandemonium. The shooters quickly disassemble their various weapons, all except the Oswald rifle. 
CUT TO: sixth floor spotter dumping the Mannlicher - Carcano in a corner as he leaves... and then to the Dal-Tex spotter and shooter, who break down the gun and move out... and then to the spotter with the fence shooter, who quickly breaks down the weapon, throwing it in the trunk of a car parked at the fence.  He walks away.  The fence shooter, dressed as a policeman, blends with the crowd. 
CUT TO: the umbrella man and the Cuban sitting quietly together on the north side of the curb of Elm Street. 
CUT TO: stunned, confused, people in the crowd - some lying on the ground, some running for the Grassy Knoll. 
Back in the courtroom, patrolman Joe Smith is on the stand. 
JIM (V.O.) Patrolman Joe Smith rushed into the parking lot behind the fence.  He smelled gunpowder. 
FLASHBACK TO: the picket fence area where, with his gun drawn, Smith rushes across to a man standing by a car who reacts quickly, producing credentials.  He is one of the hoboes. There's a strange moment when the camera moves from Smith's eyes to the man's fingernails. 
SMITH (V.O.) ...the character produces credentials from his pocket which showed him to be Secret Service.  So I accepted that and let him go and continued our search.  But I regretted it, 'cause this guy looked like an auto mechanic.  He had on a sports shirt and pants, but he had dirty fingernails.  Afterwards it didn't ring true, but at the time we were so pressed for time. 
JIM (V.O.) Yet all Secret Servicemen in Dallas that day are accounted for.  None were on foot in Dealey Plaza before or after the shooting, till Dallas Secret Service Chief Forrest Sorrels returned at 12:55. 
Back in the courtroom, Liz is totally absorbed.  Jim exchanges looks with her.  The camera movies in for a close - up of Jim. 
JIM (pausing for effect) What else was going on in Dealey Plaza that day?  At least 12 other individuals were taken into custody by Dallas police.  No records of their arrests.  Men acting like hoboes were being pulled off trains, marched through Dealey Plaza, photographed, and yet there is no records of their arrests. 
FLASHBACK TO: the three hoboes being arrested ... marching across Dealey Plaza.  The hoboes look familiar now. 
JIM (V.O.) Men identifying themselves as Secret Service Agents were all over the place.  But who was impersonating them? 
FLASHBACK TO: men in suits, ties, and hats moving people out of the parking lot area ... turning a policeman back. 
FLASHBACK TO: the Cuban, putting away a radio, and the umbrella man, who now rise and leave the area in opposite directions. 
JIM (V.O.) And where was Lee Oswald?  Probably in the second floor snack room. Eddie Piper and William Shelly saw Oswald eating lunch in the first floor lunch room around twelve. Around 12:15, on her way out of the building to see the motorcade, secretary Carolyn Arnold saw Oswald in the second floor snack room, where he said he went for a Coke... 
In the second floor lunchroom of the Book Depository we see Carolyn Arnold, a pregnant secretary, crossing past Oswald, who is in a booth. 
CAROLYN ARNOLD (V.O.) He was sitting in one of the booths on the right hand side of the room. He was alone as usual and appeared to be having lunch.  I did not speak to him but I recognized clearly.  I remember it was 12:15 or later.  It coulda been 12:25, five minutes before the assassination, I don't exactly remember.  I was pregnant and I had a craving for a glass of water. 
FRITZ Thank you, Mr. President.  We're doing our best. 
HIGH OFFICIAL VOICE Cap'n, I know you're working like a hound dog down there to get this mess wrapped up, but I gotta tell you there's too much confusion coming out of Dallas now.  The TVs and the papers are full of rumour 'bout conspiracies.  Two gunmen, two rifles, the Russkies done it, the Cubans done it, that kinda loose talk, it's carin' the shit outta people, bubba'. This thing could lead us into a war that could cost 40 million lives. We got to show'em we got this thing under control.  No question, no doubts, for the good of our country... you hear me? 
FRITZ Yes, sir. 
HIGH OFFICIAL VOICE Cap'n, you got your man, the investigation's over, that's what people want to hear. 
The camera closes in on Oswald in the background.  He turns to an unseen Deputy, sad. 
OSWALD Now everyone will know who I am. 
JIM (V.O.) By the time the sun rose the next morning, he is booked for murdering the President.  The whole country - fueled by the media - assumes he's guilty. 
In an underground police garage, we see Jack Ruby being allowed in via an interior staircase by his police contact. He moves towards the outer edge of reporters, nervous. 
Oswald comes out with his two guards.  We see a repeat of the assassination in stop time... Ruby's eyes, Oswald's... do they recognize each other? 
JIM (V.O.) Under the guise of a patriotic nightclub owner out to spare Jackie Kennedy from having to testify at a trial, Jack Ruby is shown into the underground garage by one of his inside men on the Dallas Police Force, and when he's ready Oswald is brought out like a sacrificial lamb and nicely disposed of as an enemy of the people. By early Sunday afternoon, the autopsy has been completed on him.  Who grieves for Lee Harvey Oswald?  Buried in a cheap grave under the name "Oswald"?  No one. 
We see Oswald dying on the floor of the police station.  A paramedic pushes in and starts administering artificial respiration, which only aggravates the internal hemorrhaging. 
At a Texas cemetery, Oswald's mother weeps.  Oswald is buried with a few people present, but there are no details, no dates. We see Marina whisked out by agents. 
CUT TO Kennedy's funeral, which, in contrast, attracts thousands of mourners. 
JIM (V.O.) Within minutes false statements and press leaks about Lee Oswald circulate the globe. 
FLASHBACK TO X: reading about it in the New Zealand Airport, and then back to the courtroom in 1969. 
JIM The Official Legend is created and the media takes it from there.  The glitter of official lies and the epic splendor of the thought-numbing funeral of J.F.K. confuse the eye and confound the understanding. Hitler always said "the bigger the lie, the more people will believe it."  Lee Oswald - a crazed, lonely man who wanted attention and got it by killing a President, was only the first in a long line of patsies.  In later years Bobby Kennedy and Martin Luther King, men whose commitment to change and to peace would make them dangerous to men who are committed to war, would follow, also killed by such "lonely, crazed men," who remove our guilt by making murder a meaningless act of a loner.  We have all become Hamlets in our country - children of a slain father - leader whose killers still possess the throne.  The ghost of John F. Kennedy confronts us with the secret murder at the heart of the American dream. He forces on us the appalling questions:  Of what is our Constitution made?  What is our citizenship, and more, our lives worth?  What is the future of a democracy where a President can be assassinated under conspicuously suspicious circumstances while the machinery of legal action scarcely trembles?  How many political murders, disguised as heart attacks, cancer, suicides, airplane and car crashes, drug overdoses will occur before they are exposed for what they are? 
Liz watches, moved.  Susie, Al and Numa are also there for the summation.  Even Lou Ivon has come back to support his friend. 
JIM "Treason doth never prosper," wrote an English poet, "What's the reason? For if it prosper, none dare call it treason."  The generals who sent Dreyfus to Devils Island were among the most honorable men in France, the men who killed Caesar were among the most honorable men in Rome.  And the men who killed Kennedy, no doubt, were honorable men.  I believe we have reached a time in our country, similar to what life must've been like under Hitler in the 30's, except we don't realize it because Fascism in our country takes the benign disguise of liberal democracy.  There won't be such familiar signs as swastikas.  We won't build Dachaus and Auschwitzes.  We're not going to wake up one morning and suddenly find ourselves in gray uniforms goose - stepping off to work ... "Fascism will come," Huey Long once said. "in the name of anti-fascism" - it will come in the name of your security - they call it "National Security," it will come with the mass media manipulating a clever concentration camp of the mind.  The super state will provide you tranquility above the truth, the super state will make you believe you are living in the best of all possible worlds, and in order to do so will rewrite history as it sees fit.  George Orwell's Ministry of Truth warned us, "Who controls the past, controls the future." 
The camera follows Jim around the courtroom. 
JIM The American people have yet to see the Zapruder film.  Why?  The American people have yet to see the real photographs and X - rays of the autopsy.  Why?  There are hundreds of documents that could help prove this conspiracy.  Why have they been withheld or burned by the Government? Each time my office or you the people have asked those questions, demanded crucial evidence, the answer from on high has been "national security." What kind of "national security" do we have when we have been robbed of our leaders?  Who determines our "national security"?  What "national security" permits the removal of fundamental power from the hands of the American people and validates the ascendancy of invisible government in the United States?  That kind of "national security," gentlemen of the jury, is when it smells like it, feels like it, and looks like it, you call it what it is - it's Fascism! I submit to you that what took place on November 22, 1963 was a coup d'etat.  Its most direct and tragic result was a reversal of President Kennedy's commitment to withdraw from Vietnam.  War is the biggest business in America worth $80 billion a year.  The President was murdered by a conspiracy planned in advance at the highest levels of the United States government and carried out by fanatical and disciplined Cold Warriors in the Pentagon and CIA's covert operations apparatus - among them Clay Shaw here before you.  It was a public execution and it was covered up by like - minded individuals in the Dallas Police Department, the Secret Service, the FBI, and the White House - all the way up to and including J. Edgar Hoover and Lyndon Johnson, whom I consider accomplices after the fact. 
The camera holds on onlookers shuffling and murmuring.  Clay Shaw smirks, smoking his cigarette.  The very grandiosity of the charge works in his favor.  Jim is falling apart from built - up strain and fatigue.  He looks over at Liz, gathering his spirit. 
JIM (V.O.) There is a very simple way to determine if I am being paranoid here. (laughter) Let's ask the two men who have profited the most from the assassination - your former President Lyndon Baines Johnson and your new President, Richard Nixon - to release 51 CIA documents pertaining to Lee Oswald and Jack Ruby, or the secret CIA memo on Oswald's activities in Russia that was "destroyed" while being photocopied.  All these documents are yours - the people's property - you pay for it, but because the government considers you children who might be too disturbed to face this reality, because you might lynch those involved, you cannot see these documents for another 75 years.  I'm in my 40's, so I'll have shuffled off this mortal coil by then, but I'm already telling my 8 year - old son to keep himself physically fit so that one glorious September morning in 2038 he can walk into the National Archives and find out what the CIA and the FBI knew.  They may even push it back then.  It may become a generational affair, with questions passed down from father to son, mother to daughter, in the manner of the ancient runic bards.  Someday somewhere, someone might find out the damned Truth.  Or we might just build ourselves a new Government like the Declaration of Independence says we should do when the old one ain't working - maybe a little farther out West. 
He approaches the jury. 
JIM An American naturalist wrote, "a patriot must always be ready to defend his country against its government." Well, I'd hate to be in your shoes today.  You have a lot to think about. Going back to when we were children, I think most of us in this courtroom thought that justice came into being automatically, that virtue was its own reward, that good would triumph over evil.  But as we get older we know that this just isn't true. "The frontier is where a man faces a fact."  Individual human beings have to create justice and this is not easy because truth often presents a threat to power and we have to fight power often at great risk to ourselves.  People like Julia Ann Mercer, S.M. Holland, Lee Bowers, Jean Hill, and Willie O'Keefe have come forward and taken that risk. (he produces a stack of letters) I have here some $8000 in these letters sent to my office from all over the country - quarters, dimes, dollar bills from housewives, plumbers, car salesmen, teachers, invalids ... These are the people who cannot afford to send money but do, these are the ones who drive the cabs, who nurse in the hospitals, who see their kids go to Vietnam. Why?  Because they care, because they want to know the truth - because they want their country back, because it belongs to us the people as long as the people got the guts to fight for what they believe in!  The truth is the most important value we have because if the truth does not endure, if the Government murders truth, if you cannot respect the hearts of these people... (shaking the letters) ...then this is no longer the country in which we were born in and this is not the country I want to die in... And this was never more true than for John F. Kennedy whose murder was probably the most terrible moment in the history of our country.  You the people, you the jury system, in sitting in judgement on Clay Shaw, represent the hope of humanity against Government power.  In discharging your duty, in bringing the first conviction in this house of cards against Clay Shaw, "Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country." Do not forget your young President who forfeited his life.  Show the world this is still a government of the people, for the people, and by the people.  Nothing as long as you live will ever be more important. (he stares into the camera) It's up to you. 
He returns to the table and sits.  The courtroom is still. 
CUT TO: later in the same courtroom.  The jury files in, having reached a verdict.  Jim, prepared, sits with his staff and Liz.  The jury foreman enters the courtroom. 
JURY FOREMAN We find Clay Shaw... not guilty on all counts. 
There's jubilation and commotion in the Court.  Shaw stands, happily shaking hands all over... Members of the press run for the phones.  In the corridor outside the courtroom, the press interviews the jury foreman. 
FOREMAN We believe there was a conspiracy, but whether Clay Shaw was a part of it is another kettle of fish. 
The camera moves to Jim, who walks out past the banks of reporters.  TV lights are in his face.  Liz is by his side. 
ENGLISH REPORTER Mr. Garrison, the American media is reporting this as a full vindication of the Warren Commission, do you... 
JIM I think all it proves is you cannot run a trial even questioning the intelligence operations of the government in the light of day. 
NEWSMAN 13 We understand that The Times - Picayune will call for your resignation - unfit to hold office. You've ruined Clay Shaw's reputation - are you going to resign? 
JIM Hell, no.  I'm gonna run again.  And I'm gonna win.  Thank you very much. If it takes me 30 years to nail every one of the assassins, then I will continue this investigation for 30 years.  I owe that not only to Jack Kennedy, but to my country. 
He and Liz squeeze hands as they walk on. 
DISSOLVE TO WASHINGTON, D.C. - (1970) 
Jim waits on the same park bench as earlier in the film, overlooking the Mall or the Lincoln Monument... as X walks up, a little grayer, a little more stooped, wearing ill fitting civilian clothes. 
JIM Well, thanks for coming. 
X You didn't get that break you needed, but you went as far as any man could, bubba. (he sits next to Jim) What can I do for you? 
JIM Just speculating, I guess.  How do you think it started? 
X I think it started in the wind. Money - arms, big oil, Pentagon people, contractors, bankers, politicians like L.B.J. were committed to a war in Southeast Asia.  As early as '61 they knew Kennedy was going to change things... He was not going to war in Southeast Asia.  Who knows? Probably some boardroom or lunchroom somewhere - Houston, New York - hell, maybe Bonn, Germany... who knows, it's international now. 
CUT TO: a New York lunch club or executive dining room. From the window we have a towering view of the City.  Four men in their 50's to 70's - old men, rich men, talk at a quiet table.  Their figures are shadowy and we overhear their conversation obliquely, across faces flared out by sun bouncing off the skyscraper window. 
X (V.O.) One worried sonofabitch with a few million dollars turns to the others... with a few million dollars... and says something pretty direct like... 
RICH MAN 1 The sonofabitch is gonna get re- elected by a bigger vote than ever in '64.  It's gonna be worse than Roosevelt.  The country won't survive as we know it. 
RICH MAN 2 I agree, Bob, it can't go on. (he looks to Man 3) 
RICH MAN 3 ...and Bobby in '68?  Something's got to be done. 
Looks pass among them.  There's a pause, and then... 
RICH MAN 1 He's gotta go, Lou.  The election's gotta be stopped. 
There is a breathless moment with the thought in the air. 
