JIMMY AND JUDY 
Written by 
Randall K. Rubin & Jon Schroder 
CAMERA ON: 
I/E. BACKYARD - SUBURBAN HOUSE - JUDY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
POV of a HOME VIDEO CAMERA shooting into the window of teenage girl's bedroom. 
The door inside opens. In walks JUDY OAKS-KELLEN (18), a blond haired, mousy girl, wearing only a T-shirt and panties. As she heads to the mirror we hear... 
Sound of skin smacking against skin and heavy breathing. Whoever operates the camera is definitely CHOAKIN' THE GOPHER. 
Judy combs her hair in the mirror, oblivious. 
The camera operator is in a whack off frenzy as he... 
CAMERA OPERATOR (O.C.) Oh, mmph. 
He's climaxed. 
The sounds have stopped, but the tape keeps rolling.    Judy stops combing her hair as... 
Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - THE TRACK - DAY 
Camera shoots from inside a car hidden camera style as Judy runs laps during her gym class. Judy, again, has no idea that she is being filmed as camera zooms in tight. 
She's tired, sweating profusely, and looks completely miserable. She stops running, exhausted, as the other kids pass her. 
Suddenly, a very Butch looking female GYM TEACHER (40) walks over and begins BERATING Judy. The Gym Teacher's face turns red as she spews insults inches away from Judy's face. 
We can't hear what she's saying, but whatever it is, it's cruel, harsh, and very intense. Exhausted and humiliated, Judy holds back tears as... 
Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
I/E. JIMMY'S HOUSE - BACKYARD/KITCHEN/LIVING ROOM - DUSK 
Late summer evening. Camera Operator wipes dirt from the lens with his shirt revealing his face for the first time as he looks at camera. This is the first time we get even a glimpse of JIMMY WRIGHT (21). His looks are striking, even a bit awkward, but not at all unappealing. 
He throws a mischievously evil look at the lens, then settles his face back to normal. He spins the camera away, pointing it at the back of his house. 
Through the kitchen window, Jimmy zooms in on his mother (JIMMY'S MOM) (40's) idyllic version of a mom in new millennium suburban housewife clothes. She's on the phone, preparing dinner. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Hey Mom, heard you and Dad doing the nasty last night. Thanks for that one. By the way, who the fuck is Nancy? 
Camera whips over to JIMMY'S DAD in the LIVING ROOM, well dressed, rich looking and fat in his late 40's, watching baseball on TV, tired after a long day's work. He drinks from a tumbler of expensive scotch neat with an ice cube, munching on mixed nuts from a crystal bowl. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Hey Dad, Mom's on the phone telling her friends that you're hung like a light switch. 
Dad reaches into his pants to give his balls a good scratch. Jimmy gives the play by play like a baseball announcer. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Oh Daddy, there he goes. He makes the reach and... yes! Both balls at the same time! One heck of a double play! 
Eyes on the TV, Dad takes his hands out of his pants and sniffs them. 
JIMMY (O.C.) And the sniff to finish it off. 
Satisfied, Dad reaches in and grabs a handful of nuts as he continues to watch TV. We zoom out to see both Mom and Dad, each through different windows. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Fucking freak show. 
CAMERA ON: 
INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Dark and in silhouette, Jimmy flips on the camera by remote. It's too dark to see faces or bodies with any detail, but Jimmy's clearly having sex with a PROSTITUTE in his bed. She is young, black, and looks very much like a prostitute. 
As he pounds into her... 
JIMMY Do you like that nigger?   Come on nigger, do you like it? 
PROSTITUTE (humors him) Oh yeah baby, I like it. 
By remote, Jimmy shuts down the camera. 
CAMERA ON: 
INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Jimmy's behind   the camera interviewing the Prostitute who sits up in his   bed holding the sheets to cover herself. With the lights on,   we can see that she's clearly unattractive. Jimmy asks his   questions with a gentle confidence. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Okay, so. What was going through your mind when I called you a nigger? 
PROSTITUTE This costs you an extra fifty. 
Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
I/E. JUDY'S HOUSE - JUDY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
A scene we've seen before. Jimmy is off camera videotaping Judy through her bedroom window. We hear him FLOGGIN' THE DOLPHIN off screen while Judy combs her hair in the mirror. She stops when she hears... 
A Grown Man, (45), walks into the doorway of her bedroom. This is JUDY'S DAD. He comes in and doesn't say a thing to her. Judy doesn't acknowledge him at all and continues combing her hair as though he's not even there. 
He comes up behind her, then wraps his arms around her, giving her a warm hug from behind. Something's not right. The masturbation sounds STOP. 
Judy's noticeably uncomfortable but doesn't resist as her Father begins kissing her neck. His hand slowly creeps down to her pelvic area, his other hand turning out the bedroom light. The room goes dark. 
Camera flips down, then OFF... 
Then COMES BACK ON AGAIN 
Once again we're looking through the camera pointing at the window, but now it's the distorted, grainy, black and white of "Nite Shot" mode. Though we see the Judy's mirror and her dresser, she and her Father are nowhere to be found. 
Whatever's going on between them, it's going on out of frame, away from the view of the window. Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Jimmy films once again, hidden camera style, long lens from far away. Frame is close on Judy sitting at the dining room table. 
As camera pulls back, we HEAR but don't see Judy's Parents talking to Jimmy's Mom and Dad at the table. Judy is bored, completely uninterested in their conversation. 
JIMMY'S MOM (O.C.) So Melissa talked Gary into the SL instead of the seven series. I couldn't believe it. 
Judy looks over at camera, catching the fact that she's being videotaped. Jimmy keeps filming. 
JIMMY'S DAD (O.C.) They paid way too much. 
As Jimmy zooms in, she clandestinely flips off the camera. 
JUDY'S DAD I strictly buy American anyway. 
Judy gets up.   Her mom stops her. 
JUDY'S MOM (O.C.) Where you going honey? 
JUDY Bathroom. 
As Judy leaves the table she walks towards camera as it shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Judy sits on Jimmy's bed, staring into the camera.   She's uncomfortable sitting there. It's poorly framed. 
JUDY Can we start already? 
JIMMY (O.C.) One second. 
Camera shuts off. 
INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Jimmy films Judy again, better framing this time.      Judy looks annoyed and uncomfortable in front of the camera. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Who do you hate most in the world and why? 
JUDY (kind of bitchy) Why? Who cares? 
JIMMY (O.C.) I do. 
JUDY God, I just wanted to come up here to say "hi" and get away from my parents' bullshit for like two seconds and you have to put the stupid camera in my face. 
Jimmy takes delight in Judy's displeasure of being filmed. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Now we're onto something. 
Judy wants to go and then doesn't. 
JUDY You're weird Jimmy. You were weird when we were kids and now you're just getting weirder. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Is that why you had a crush on me? 
JUDY (scoffs) Yeah right. 
JIMMY (O.C.) You didn't have a crush on me? 
Judy fidgets, he's got her. 
JUDY You're a loser. You're twenty one and you're still living with your parents. 
She's waiting for a response.    Jimmy doesn't bite. 
JUDY I heard that you got kicked out of college because you tried to talk your roommate into killing himself. 
Judy fidgets again, then... 
JUDY (blows her top) Because we're both fucking weird! 
Judy pauses. The pressure of the camera from Jimmy makes her feel like she has to give him more. 
JUDY Because we're the two weirdest kids in the world. And God made us for each other and I fucking love you, and you did all this because you love me too, and fuck everyone and everything that doesn't get it! 
Judy's out of breath.    Camera still points at her. 
JUDY That's right, right? 
Judy stares back at the camera, longing for an answer from Jimmy. She told him she loved him. Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
I/E. HIGHWAY FIRST-KISS-SMILEY-FACE/JIMMY'S CAR - DAY 
Jimmy is driving in his car with Judy in the passenger seat. Judy has the camera and she is interviewing Jimmy as he drives. 
JUDY (O.C.) Where are you taking me? 
JIMMY To a beautiful place. 
JUDY (O.C.) Where? 
JIMMY Chuck E. Cheese. 
Judy and Jimmy laugh together. 
JUDY (O.C.) No seriously. 
JIMMY I can't tell you.    It'll ruin it. 
JUDY (O.C.) Fine. 
Judy sulks for a second. 
JUDY (O.C.) Jimmy, can I ask you something? 
JIMMY Anything. 
JUDY (O.C.) Do you hate your parents? 
JIMMY Yes, but I understand them. 
JUDY (O.C.) What's to understand? 
JIMMY Lots of things. 
JUDY (O.C.) Like what? 
JIMMY I understand that my ascension into young adulthood triggered their descent into mid-life crisis. Generally when an only child leaves the nest, the parents begin reassessing their own lives. They see us as a younger, better version of themselves. (MORE) 
JIMMY (cont'd) They feel abandoned by our need for privacy and insecure because we no longer seek their approval. They used to take us to baseball games and cover our scrapes with bandages, but once we no longer need Mom to nurture our bruises or Dad to be our hero it puts their roles and subsequent sense of self worth into question. 
JUDY (O.C.) How do you know all these things? 
JIMMY When you don't have any friends, don't play sports, don't go out, have no one talk to, nowhere to go, no one to listen to you, or no one to help you figure things out, you sort of have to figure things out by yourself. And without any of those things I have nothing but time to think about stuff. 
JUDY (O.C.) You are SO smart. 
JIMMY You are so beautiful. 
Long pause.   Judy doesn't know how to react. 
JUDY (O.C.) You think I'm pretty? 
JIMMY I think you're the most beautiful person I have ever met. The most beautiful person in the universe. 
JUDY (O.C.) No one has ever told me that. 
JIMMY Get used to hearing it. 
JUDY (O.C.) Do you think I'm smart? 
JIMMY Yes. 
JUDY (O.C.) Do you think I'm fat? 
JIMMY Yes. 
JUDY (O.C.) How could you say that? I only way a hundred and ten pounds. 
JIMMY Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you said flat. As in flat chested. 
JUDY (O.C.) I am not FLAT! 
Judy smacks him. 
JIMMY Prove it. 
JUDY (O.C.) I don't have to prove it.   Here look. 
Judy's devouring him in that raging teenage hormone sort of way. 
JUDY (whispers) I wanna see your smiley face again. 
We see and hear Judy whispering, her lips placed gently on the inside of Jimmy's ear. 
JUDY (whispering) Turn the camera off. Turn the camera off. Turn it off. 
Camera goes off. 
CAMERA ON: 
I/E. HIGHWAY FIRST-KISS-SMILEY-FACE/JIMMY'S CAR - DAY 
Judy films Jimmy driving the car.   He has a huge shit eating grin on his face. 
JUDY (O.C.) How do you feel? 
JIMMY Relaxed, happy, confident, studly, excited, relieved, delighted... I love you Judy. 
JUDY (O.C.) You do? 
JIMMY Very much so. I always have. 
JUDY (O.C.) Me too. 
Long pause filled with sexual tension takes over. 
JUDY (O.C.) Do you want to pull over again? 
Jimmy smiles.   Of course he does.   Camera goes off. 
CAMERA ON: 
EXT. BEAUTIFUL FARM - SHOTGUN SCENE - DAY 
Judy films Jimmy as he FIRES a twelve gage pump action shot gun off into the distance. After each shot he pumps then FIRES again. 
JIMMY Are you getting this? 
No response. 
Jimmy FIRES another shot. His muscles are flexing as he pumps the gage. He looks extremely violent and determined. 
JIMMY Come on.   Are you getting this? 
A very turned off Judy replies. 
JUDY (O.C.) This is where you wanted to take me? 
JIMMY Yeah, what's the matter? 
We can hear Judy crying.   The camera shakes out of control. 
JUDY (O.C.) I wanna go home. 
Jimmy looks over towards the camera/Judy. He knows that he's fucked up and he feels like complete shit. 
Jimmy walks over to her, takes the camera and shuts it off. 
CAMERA ON: 
INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BATHROOM - NIGHT 
Jimmy is standing in front of a mirror and is videotaping his own reflection. 
He is talking to himself and into the camera. 
JIMMY Don't fuck this up.    Please don't fuck this up. 
Now he is pleading with himself. 
JIMMY Just try to be normal. (screaming) Just be normal! God damn it why do you have to fuck everything up? 
He hasn't convinced himself. 
JIMMY Be normal.     Be normal.   Be normal! 
Jimmy takes a breath, then shuts the camera down. 
CAMERA ON: 
INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Jimmy films Judy who lies next to him in the bed. Her face is sweaty and red and he is still a tad out of breath. Jimmy is capturing her literally seconds after they had sex. 
She's somewhat bewildered, then she notices the camera. She's starting to get used to it. 
JUDY (big smile) Hi. 
JIMMY (O.C.) So how do you feel now, right at this moment? 
Judy just sighs, basking in the afterglow. 
Jimmy's Dad walks over to the dresser, opens up the top drawer and pulls something out. It's too dark in the room to tell exactly what he's pulled out, but it appears to resemble some sort of undergarment. 
Jimmy's Dad begins undressing, then steps out of frame. 
After a beat, he reappears. Now he's wearing nothing but a sequined teddy. He's totally fat, hairy, and nasty looking. He sits on the side of the bed, his back to us. Now we see that what he grabbed out of the drawer was actually a pair of fishnet stockings. He begins putting them on. 
When he is finished putting on his panty hose, he gets up off the bed and begins admiring his legs in a mirror. He begins to gently stroke the sides of his legs, relishing the feel of the hose over his hands and fingertips. 
He seems to be lip syncing the words to a song and begins to get all worked up. He shakes his hips and dances around the room for a few seconds. 
Now Jimmy's Dad goes to the dresser and pulls out a long brunette wig from the back of his top drawer. Putting it on, with the fishnet stockings, sequined teddy and long wig, he has transformed himself into the world's fattest, ugliest, hairiest, Cher look-a-like. 
Someone else enters the room. 
JIMMY'S DAD Hi sweety. 
Holy shit. It's Jimmy's Mom, and she's wearing a leather dominatrix outfit! 
JIMMY'S MOM Are you ready for me, you fucking slut? 
JIMMY'S DAD Not quite. 
JIMMY'S MOM I don't feel like waiting. Hurry up bitch. What do you have left to do? 
JIMMY'S DAD I just need to put on my makeup. 
As Jimmy's Mom exits frame, we see Jimmy's Dad go to the mirror. He opens up the top drawer again and pulls out a little makeup bag. 
Jimmy's Mom re-enters, now wearing a mini leather biker's hat, carrying a riding switch. 
JIMMY'S MOM Come on slut. 
Jimmy's Dad finishes applying his lipstick and moves over to the bed. By the way Jimmy's parents are behaving, it's as if they've gone through this routine a thousand times. 
Jimmy's Mom drifts off screen as Jimmy's Dad gets up on all fours. Suddenly, we hear a SMACK as Jimmy's Mom hits Jimmy's Dad on his ass with the switch. 
He lets out deep pleasured groans as she continues SMACKING him with the whip harder and harder. He yelps, squeals, and gyrates his hips back and forth, then starts dry humping the air until she stops. 
Jimmy's Mom comes back through and out of frame. Jimmy's Dad pushes his belly into the bed, groaning from the pain while he waits for her return. 
She comes back, moving quickly across the screen wearing an enormous strap on dildo. 
Disappearing out of frame again, Jimmy's Dad gets himself ready for her one more time, ass up, on all fours on the bed. 
From behind, we can see her hand as she hikes her husband's dress up his back, then we see his face and hear him grunt as she rips his fishnets off screen. 
There's a pause. Nothing seems to be happening, but Jimmy's Dad is bracing himself for something. His face tightens up. Off screen, Jimmy's Mom has started mounting him from behind. 
Jimmy can't take it any longer. As he slowly emerges from the closet, his Mom notices Jimmy almost immediately. She jumps off her husband, screaming bloody murder. 
Camera's shaky but it's easy to guess what's been happening. Mom's just started doing Dad from behind with the strap on. 
JIMMY Hi mom.     Hi dad.   What are you guys up to? 
Jimmy's Dad leaps from the bed and begins shouting. He looks completely absurd screaming at Jimmy wearing his sequined dress and wig. 
JIMMY'S DAD What the fuck are you doing here? 
Jimmy's Mom goes hysterical and begins screaming at Jimmy's Dad. 
JIMMY'S MOM (to his dad) I told you he would find out you fucking freak! No wonder he's a fucking psycho. Look a his father. 
Jimmy's Dad is beside himself with fury and throws off his wig. 
JIMMY'S DAD Turn off the that fucking camera! Turn off that fucking camera right fucking now god damn it! 
Jimmy is loving it. 
JIMMY Gee dad, what do you say the two of us go out to the front yard and throw some ball together? We'll have a nice friendly game of catch. 
Jimmy's Dad attacks Jimmy. He swings at the lens. He's one angry drag queen daddy. He begins strangling Jimmy. 
JIMMY'S DAD You little mother fucker.     Turn off that fucking camera! 
Jimmy's Mom rips off her strap on dildo and begins beating Jimmy's Dad with it. 
Judging from the punishment she's inflicting upon her drag queen husband, the dildo apparently is made from the finest and heaviest of materials. 
JIMMY'S MOM Stop it!     You're going to kill him. 
Jimmy's Dad lets go.    The dildo's doing the trick. 
JIMMY'S DAD Bitch! 
Jimmy's Mom keeps swinging the dildo at Jimmy's Dad even though he's let go. 
JIMMY'S MOM Fuck you! You think you know me? You don't know me! You piece of shit! 
JIMMY (laughing) Mom! 
Jimmy's Mom now directs her attention on Jimmy. She screams at him as she swings her gigantic strap on towards the camera. 
JIMMY'S MOM You little beast! You want to film something? Film this! 
JIMMY I'm thinking. 
JUDY (O.C.) Just let it go, be free. 
JIMMY (adoringly) You're such a hippie all of sudden. 
JUDY (O.C.) Come on. 
JIMMY No. 
Judy's not getting what she wants from him.   Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
EXT. FOREST/MEADOW - RUNNING NAKED - DAY 
Judy films Jimmy. The camera is close and intimate as they lie on their sides staring into each other's eyes. Judy is still naked, but is being shot in an extreme close up. 
JUDY (O.C.) Okay, go. 
Jimmy's still not up for it.   Judy grabs the camera and turns it on him. 
JUDY (O.C.) Come on! 
Jimmy's turns the tables. 
JIMMY Okay, you really wanna hear something? 
JUDY (O.C.) Yeah. 
Jimmy takes a deep breath, a touch of intensity flashes in his eye, then... 
JIMMY I want to go one day without masturbating. I want to liberate my penis. I want to clone you so we could have a three way and neither of us would be cheating. I want you to scrape my balls with a cheese grater... 
Judy starts laughing.   The camera's shaking. 
JUDY (O.C.) That's gross! 
Jimmy suddenly gets serious. 
JIMMY And I love you. I love you so much it hurts. 
JUDY (O.C.) It hurts? 
JIMMY Like God is stabbing me in heart with a thousand knives at the same time and you're the only one who can make the pain go away. Do you love me that much? 
JUDY (O.C.) I love you so much, I'd rather die than be without you. 
JIMMY Here. 
Jimmy grabs the camera and points it at Judy. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Make me a promise... the way a husband and wife make a promise... that we will be together always and forever. 
JUDY You mean get married? 
JIMMY (O.C.) Something more powerful than marriage. It's a bond. It's our bond. It's transcendental. 
JUDY What? 
JIMMY (O.C.) Transcendental. (grabs the camera) Here. 
Jimmy hands Judy the camera as she starts to frame him up, but they're really engaging each other's eyes over the top of the eyepiece. 
JIMMY It's transcendental because it transcends everything. Life, love, law, people, things... A bond so strong that our souls will become one and it can never end, even in death. If you swear on the bond, it means you'd rather die than break your promise. 
Judy is moved. 
JUDY (O.C.) That's so beautiful. 
JIMMY You're so beautiful.    I want to love you forever. 
JUDY (O.C.) Swear on the bond. Swear we'll be together forever, that you'd rather die than be apart. 
JIMMY I swear on the bond. 
JUDY (O.C.) And we'll never let anything come between us, not even death. 
JIMMY Not even death. I swear. Nothing will come between us, ever. 
Jimmy stares at her, then slowly leans in for a kiss... a long, wet, toe curling kiss. Jimmy finds a way to point the camera at the kiss. 
They break apart. Judy sighs, staring into Jimmy's eyes, then leans into him, his lips touching her forehead, their eyes closing as they feel the energy of true love. 
JUDY We'll be together forever. 
JIMMY (whispers) Together forever. 
Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
I/E. GROCERY STORE PARKING LOT/JIMMY'S CAR - DAY 
Jimmy does an imitation of himself in therapy.   He looks directly into the lens. 
JIMMY You start out slow, then you build it up like this... "Now I know that using violence is not the answer." 
Jimmy is getting progressively sappier and more over the top with his self impersonation. 
JIMMY Then you go like this: (snaps back into the impersonation) I was wrong, I know I was wrong and I'll never do it again. I don't want to hurt people or myself. 
Jimmy does an obnoxious fake cry. 
JIMMY Boo hoo, waaaaaa, boo-hoo-hoo, waaaaaaa. (snaps out of it) Then you always give them the obligatory hug at the end. After a couple of weeks, then they officially diagnose you with something, give you a prescription, then you're done. 
JUDY (O.C.) God, you're a genius. 
Jimmy pulls up to the drive through window and pays the Cashier who hands him the a paper bag of food. 
Jimmy pulls away and parks. Judy continues to question him as he goes through his bag of food. 
JUDY (O.C.) So what did they say you have? 
Jimmy munches on some fries. 
JIMMY ODD. Oppositional Defiance Disorder. 
JUDY (O.C.) You're so lucky. I wish I was diagnosed with something. What does it mean? 
Jimmy pretends he is reading from a text book 50's industrial spoof style. 
JIMMY ODD is a disorder characterized by an overwhelming pattern of negative, hostile, and defiant behavior which causes severe delusions where the patient can no longer distinguish fantasy from reality. 
JUDY (O.C.) Wow.   I love that! 
Jimmy smiles as he gets his burger out of the paper bag. He then opens the top bun of the burger to examine if they got his order correct. They didn't. 
Jimmy playfully begins to act crazy. 
JIMMY You see. They fucked up my order. I specifically asked for no pickles. 
JUDY (O.C.) (playing along) Oh, no! How will ODD Boy handle this? Will his ODD brain be able to withstand a pickle screw up at the drive thru? 
Jimmy goes into a cartoonish like crazy person character. 
He begins by taking the pickles off of his burger. He puts the burger down, quickly lifts his shirt, holding it up with his chin while he places two pickles over top of his nipples. 
Jimmy yells. 
JIMMY Ooow, jeez, they're hot! I burnt my nipples with the pickles. 
Judy cracks up laughing. Jimmy takes a pickle off of his left nipple and dangles it directly in front of the lens. 
He then feeds it to Judy. We hear Judy chomping on the pickle and giggling off camera. The camera shakes then shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
I/E. GHETTO/JUDY'S CAR - NIGHT 
Judy is driving through the ghetto as Jimmy shoots out of the window. On the sidewalk, he catches glimpses Drug Dealers, a Crack Whore, a Drunk stumbling along, and Other Pretty Sketchy Characters. 
JIMMY (O.C.) I love the ghetto. I don't know what it is about it. I fucking love it. It's always the first place I go to when I get out. 
JUDY I love it when you're out of the looney bin. Do you think you might be able to try to avoid the place for a while? 
JIMMY (O.C.) (joking) If they don't send me to the bin, maybe they'll send me to jail. 
This upsets Judy. 
JUDY I'm serious. You act like it's no big deal when you go away! 
JIMMY (O.C.) (tired of it) All right. 
JUDY No it's not all right! When you're in there I have to be out in the real world alone, by myself Jimmy. You go away and come back like it's no big deal. Well it is a big deal. I don't want to spend another day without you. Do you understand me? I'd rather die. 
Judy's holding back tears. 
JIMMY (O.C.) I'm not going back. 
She doesn't believe him. She's really starting to cry despite herself. He pulls his eye from the lens to look at her. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Judy. 
Judy looks over at him. 
JIMMY (O.C.) I promise. I swear on my life and I swear on our bond, I'll never go back. 
Her freak out subsides. 
JUDY If you swear on our bond, then I believe you. 
Judy lets out half cry and half yelp.   Her emotions are a bit out of control. 
JUDY I love you so fucking much. 
JIMMY    (O.C.) I love you too. 
We hear Jimmy struggling. 
The camera is still on the floor of the car. 
More struggling as Jimmy is clearly outside putting the body into the trunk. 
JUDY (O.C.) (to self) I want to go home. 
We hear Jimmy slam the trunk. 
JIMMY (O.C.) (screams; frustrated) Fuck! 
We hear Jimmy come around to the driver's seat and open the door. 
JUDY (O.C.) Jimmy, I... 
JIMMY (O.C.) I'm driving. 
We hear Judy get out of the car and walk around to the passenger side and open the door, but she doesn't get in. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Get in. 
Judy doesn't respond. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Are you gonna fucking get in! 
Judy is hysterical. 
JUDY (O.C.) We should just leave him here. 
JIMMY (O.C.) We can't leave him in the middle of the fucking ghetto. Get in before someone sees us! 
Judy's losing it. 
JUDY (O.C.) I don't want him in my fucking car! I want him out! 
Before Jimmy can respond, we see the reflection of police lights. Red and blue lights flicker against the lens. 
JUDY (O.C.) Oh shit! 
We hear Judy get in the car and close the door. 
JUDY (O.C.) It's the fucking cops. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Just shut up. 
She's hysterical. 
JUDY (O.C.) It's the cops. It's the cops. It's the... 
JIMMY (O.C.) Shhhhhh! 
Jimmy kicks the camera. We still can't see any of this.     We can only hear what's happening. 
JIMMY (O.C.) You gotta play it cool, okay? 
Judy's crying gets louder. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Stop fucking crying. Please, I'm begging you. Stop it. 
We hear the cop open and shut his patrol car door. 
JUDY (O.C.) Oh God. He's getting out of the car. We've got a dead homeless guy in our trunk and he's... 
JIMMY (O.C.) SSSHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! 
JUDY (O.C.) Oh, my god Jimmy, he's walking towards us. 
JIMMY (O.C.) SSSHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! Just be cool. 
The Cop is close, we can feel his footsteps coming towards the car. Judy collects herself as best as she can. 
The cop taps his flashlight against the window. 
We hear Judy roll down her power window and we hear the voice of the Cop. 
COP (O.C.) Good evening. License and registration please. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Certainly, sir. 
The light from the Cop's flashlight reflects off the floor of the car and into the lens of the camera. 
The reflections stop.   The wait is unbearable. 
COP (O.C.) Could you please step out of the vehicle? 
Jimmy gets out of the car as Judy trembles in the passengers seat. 
We only hear the sounds of Judy sniffling and repressing herself from crying and idle chatter of the Cop's radio. 
It seems like forever, then... 
THUMP! 
We see and hear a huge roaring fire. Jimmy has zoomed the lens in so close that we can't tell what it is that's burning. 
As he pulls out, it's revealed that the dead homeless guy is roasting in the fire. 
JUDY (O.C.) (coughing) Oh, my god. The hair burning is making me nauseous. 
Judy coughs more violently before. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Yeah, God damn. Burning bodies fucking stinks. That bum's body odor is being cooked right off him. 
Jimmy pokes the flaming skull with his stick. 
JUDY (O.C.) Jimmy! 
Jimmy pokes some more at the body, then flips the camera up at Judy. 
JUDY What?    I'm not in the mood. 
JIMMY (O.C.) (making light) Don't have to be in the mood. Doesn't matter. The camera's on, it's on. (changes the subject) You wanna know where we're gonna go? 
JUDY Okay, where are we gonna go? 
JIMMY (O.C.) We're going to Lincoln to visit Dinko. 
JUDY Who's Dinko, Jimmy? 
JIMMY (O.C.) He's cool. And he's got his own place, and he said I could stay there whenever ever I wanted. Plus he knows about you and he wants to meet you. And he doesn't like cops, so he's not gonna call 'em. Okay? Now gimme a smile. 
JUDY No. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Gimme a smile, and I'll let you see my smiley face again. 
Judy begins coughing. 
JUDY I can't get sexy with that smell. I just can't. 
Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
INT. DINKO'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
Music is playing extremely loud in a funky ass trailer as Judy dances with DINKO (late 20s) a completely drunk trailer trash dude wearing a pizza delivery outfit. 
Empty whiskey and beer bottles are scattered throughout the tiny living room as cigarette smoke hovers around them due to a ridiculously low ceiling. 
Judy is dancing in a very sexy manner with Dinko who is dancing like a complete dork. Dinko has no moves, rhythm, or beat whatsoever, but dances with as much vigor as a dog on crack. 
Jimmy is sitting on the couch filming them dancing in front of him. Dinko is forced to scream over top of the music to be heard. He looks directly at Jimmy noticing that Jimmy's turned on the camera. 
DINKO Hey! The video-man. I remember that shit when we was in together. Said you video-ed everything. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Yep. 
DINKO Hey man, it's cool if you guys stay here for a while, but I have a small business to run man. There's going to be some people knocking on the door and shit. I can't have you guys answering the door or the phone. That's the only rule. Other than that man, we're going to getting fucked up together all the time. I got a shit load of crank dude, that shit is off the fucking hook. Here, take a hit. 
Dinko tries to hand off some crank to Jimmy. 
JIMMY (O.C.) No thanks, I just want to film Judy dancing. 
Jimmy pans the camera over towards Judy.    She's doing her best sexy dance into the camera. 
We can still hear Dinko talking to Jimmy. 
DINKO (O.C.) Right man. That's cool. Hey um... If I tell you to stop taping though, man, you gotta stop. I got some hard core junkies coming over here. Sometimes, if they see shit like that, they fucking flip. Crank junkies are a whole different kind of breed man. They're fucking hard core mother fuckers. You don't know what they're gonna fucking do. This one guy got paranoid about something. He used to climb on his roof to take a dump. That's the only place he would shit! How fucked up is that? 
Dinko laughs at his own joke. 
JUDY You're not even paying attention to me Jimmy. 
Judy takes her dancing up a notch to get Jimmy's attention. 
JUDY Don't I look sexy? 
Jimmy doesn't get a chance to respond. 
DINKO (O.C.) Yeah, you look real sexy baby. Real nice. 
Dinko starts in with Jimmy again. 
DINKO (O.C.) Hey, I may have some work for you if you're cool with that. 
Jimmy turns the camera back to Dinko while he goes to the kitchen to get a beer. 
JIMMY (O.C.) What kind of work? 
DINKO You know some hustling, some good money. I'll teach you how to mix the shit. Your girlfriend too if she wants. 
JIMMY (O.C.) (sarcasm) Yeah. That's what I've always wanted to do. Learn to make and sell crystal methamphetamine. You're a fucking genius Dinko. 
Dinko is too stupid to recognize sarcasm. 
DINKO (big smile) Yeah, man! Fuckin' high five. 
DINKO You're into chicks aren't you Hazel? 
HAZEL Um, I really just want to get some stuff and get out of here. 
Hazel is trembling.    The party atmosphere has come to a complete halt. 
DINKO Shut up you fat fucking junkie and take your clothes off or you ain't getting shit. 
Hazel's not moving.    She's reluctant. 
DINKO Come on! 
HAZEL I don't... 
Dinko smacks her square in the face. 
DINKO (screaming) Just do it, you fucking whore! 
Hazel starts to take her clothes off reluctantly. 
JUDY Jimmy. 
Jimmy doesn't do anything.     He just keeps filming. 
JUDY Jimmy, stop him! 
JIMMY (O.C.) He's a big boy, he can do what he wants. 
This gives Dinko an added boost of confidence. Hazel is now in her bra and panties and is standing in front of them. 
DINKO Ever made a porno? 
JIMMY (O.C.) Not with you. 
DINKO Well all right! Keep filming mother fucker, I'm gonna fuck this junkie for you. You guys are free to join in whenever you like. 
Judy is now borderline hysterical. 
JUDY I swear to God Jimmy if you let him go through with this I'll never talk to you again! 
Jimmy ignores her. 
DINKO You ready?     You filming? 
JIMMY (O.C.) I'm filming. Are you going to fuck her or are you just gonna talk about it? 
JUDY (screaming) Jimmy! 
Dinko unbuckles his belt as fast as he can. Hazel begins to cry as Dinko pushes her into position on all fours. 
DINKO (to Jimmy) How's this? You getting good camera angles and shit? 
JIMMY (O.C.) Turn her ass towards the camera. 
DINKO (laughing it up) Take off them panties bitch...   Oh yeah! Come on bitch. Move. 
Judy is crying profusely in the background as Dinko pushes Hazel to the ground. Jimmy zooms in on Dinko, framing out Hazel as Dinko gets himself ready to take her from behind. 
DINKO That's it.     Just like that. 
Dinko looks directly at the lens of the camera. 
DINKO We're going to be doing this shit all the time brother. 
JIMMY (O.C.) You think so? 
DINKO Fuck yeah! 
Dinko sees something O.C. from Jimmy, we can't see that surprises him. 
DINKO You don't have to hold a gun to her head man. There's plenty of other chicks we can do that to. If that's what you're into, then fuck it, I'll... 
BAM!!! 
Dinko takes a shot in the throat and falls onto Hazel. Jimmy's shot him. 
Judy has stopped screaming. Hazel on the other hand is freaking out, trapped under a squirming Dinko. 
Jimmy sets the camera on top of something, stands up and brings the gun to Judy. 
JIMMY Take it! 
Judy doesn't know what to do.   Jimmy puts the gun in her hand. 
JIMMY Finish him off! He deserves a bullet right in the fucking face, doesn't he? 
Judy's in a weird cranked out place. 
JUDY (nervous, cranked out) Yeah. Yeah. He does. 
JIMMY Then do it. 
Judy points the gun at a still squirming Dinko.   She can't bring herself to pull the trigger. 
The Cher bridesmaids giggle. 
JUDY I do. 
ELVIS Do you Jimmy promise to always fuck Judy with enthusiasm, to take a shower once a day, and promise not to inject your penis into any part of another person's body as long as you both shall live? 
JIMMY I do. 
ELVIS Can I get the rings? 
Siegfried gives the rings to Jimmy who places one on Judy's finger and vice versa. 
ELVIS With the power vested in me by the great state of Nevada... I do herby pronounce you husband and wife. You may kiss the bride. 
Jimmy and Judy grab each other by the ass and begin making out. 
The freak show audience claps while they are making out. The applauding dies down but Jimmy and Judy continue to make out. Jimmy puts his hand up her dress as she begins unbuckling his pants. It looks like they may start fucking on the alter. 
Elvis jumps in to break it up. 
ELVIS All right you two.     We got a schedule to keep. 
Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
INT. LAS VEGAS - LAS VEGAS MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Jimmy is running through    the motel room with the camera. Flashes of snorted lines    of crank dust and rolled up bills are in the background as    Jimmy moves through the room. We hear Judy screaming with    excitement about something on the TV. 
JUDY (O.C.) Hurry up Jimmy, hurry, hurry, hurry, shit Jimmy. You're going to miss it. 
Jimmy settles camera on the television. 
BEGIN TV NEWS REPORT 
On TV, Jimmy and Judy's high school year book pictures are on the screen. 
INT. TV NEWS STUDIO - (FOR VEGAS MOTEL TV) - NIGHT 
An ANCHORMAN is mid-sentence, talking about Jimmy and Judy. 
ANCHORMAN ...press conference in a few moments. The suspect's names are James Wright and Judy Elizabeth Oaks-Kellen... 
JUDY (O.C.) No it's not! I'm Judy Wright now! (sing songy, like a little girl) I'm Judy Wright now! 
JIMMY (O.C.) Shhhh...     Shut up! 
ANCHORMAN ...from Burlington, Kentucky are wanted for questioning in the alleged murder of a Hamilton County Sheriff's Deputy that was killed two nights ago while on Patrol in the Over the Rhine section of Cincinnati. On a very serious note, the producers here at KPX-TV 4 would like to warn you that the images we are about to show are violent and graphic in nature and may not be suitable for young children. Once again, these are the images that were taken from a video camera that was mounted on board the patrol car. Viewer discretion is advised. 
Judy gasps involuntarily as... 
INT. LAS VEGAS - LAS VEGAS MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Jimmy pulls the camera from the screen and points it at Judy to get her reaction. Her eyes are locked on the screen. 
Judy's face drops. We, on the other hand, are dying to see what she's looking at. 
Jimmy swish pans back to the TV and zooms in tight.   The television fills the frame. 
EXT. GHETTO - COP CAR CAM (FOR VEGAS MOTEL) - NIGHT 
(From Sc. 37, p. 64) On screen we see something completely new. It's a black and white security cam style video image. Just as the announcer described, this is the kind of image that comes from a video camera that's mounted on the inside of a Cop Car. It's static and covered with date/time text, etc. 
On TV, we finally get a chance to see what transpired when Jimmy and Judy were pulled over. Judy is standing outside the cop car. The moment she sees it approach, we see her freak just a bit and get into the car quickly and suspiciously. The cop gets up, gets out of the car and goes over to the driver side to talk to Jimmy. After a few moments, he summons Jimmy out of the car while Judy waits. 
The Cop asks Jimmy to open the trunk. He doesn't have his gun drawn, but he is being cautious, one hand on his gun holster, the other shining on Jimmy's face with a flashlight. 
COP (on TV) Go ahead and open it. 
Jimmy stands by the trunk of the car, but he's not really obeying the Cop's commands. He's stalling. The Cop is getting suspicious. We can barely hear what they're saying to each other over the noise of traffic that whizzes by. 
There's an unintelligible exchange, then... the cop steps forward, raising his voice. 
COP (on TV) Put your hands on the vehicle. 
Jimmy's reluctant. 
COP (on TV) On the vehicle, now! 
The Cop and Jimmy are sort of at a standoff.    Jimmy finally leans over and puts his hands on the trunk. 
The Cop comes in close to Jimmy, pulling his hand from his gun holster and shifting it to pull his cuffs off his belt. 
At that exact moment, Jimmy makes his move, LEAPING for the Cop. 
He takes the Cop to the ground and off screen. 
All we see is a barely decipherable image of Judy freaking out in the passenger seat because she can't see what's going on and neither can we. 
About 5 seconds go by. 
BOOM! 
JIMMY Yeah, but you look fucking great. 
JUDY This was your idea Jimmy. 
Jimmy thinks. 
JIMMY Fuck it.     Let's do this thing. 
Judy starts the shaver back up and proceeds to shave Jimmy's head. She starts right down the middle. 
Hair falls into Jimmy's face as Judy slides the buzzer from front to back. Jimmy now has a reverse Mohawk. He laughs at himself along with Judy. 
JIMMY This is the look. 
Judy then shaves the entire top of Jimmy's head, giving him the quintessential male pattern baldness look. 
He looks ridiculous. 
JIMMY (joking) Let's just leave it like this. 
Judy laughs. 
JUDY Don't be stupid. 
Judy shaves the rest of his head and now Jimmy is completely bald. 
Jimmy checks himself out in the mirror. 
JIMMY I am one ugly mother fucker. 
Judy is stroking the top of his head with her hands. 
JUDY It feels funny. 
Jimmy gives it a feel for himself.   He sticks his pinky in the side of his mouth. 
JIMMY I look like Dr. Evil. 
Judy laughs, then kisses the top of Jimmy's head. 
JIMMY Come on. Let's go across the street and get a shit burger. 
Jimmy shuts down the camera. 
CAMERA ON: 
I/E. BUN BOY - DINER/PARKING LOT/DINKO'S CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY 
In a booth at the motel diner, Judy is filming Jimmy while he stuffs a burger into his face. 
JUDY (O.C.) You're such a fucking pig when you eat. 
Jimmy opens his mouth full of food and comes towards camera. 
JIMMY Aaaaaaaaaahhh! 
JUDY (O.C.) Gross. That's it. I'm not taking you to the country club, ever! 
That didn't quite sit right with him, but he covers it up with a mock pout while he chews. 
JUDY (O.C.) (mocking) Awww... I'm sorry. Did I hurt your feelings? 
Jimmy won't respond, playful. 
JUDY (O.C.) I'll take you to the country club. I promise. 
Jimmy looks up smiling. 
JIMMY When? 
JUDY (O.C.) I don't know. 
Judy pauses.   Jimmy keeps chewing. 
JUDY (O.C.) Thanks for marrying me. You're my prince charming that came and swooped me off me feet. 
The irony is thick. Bald, lanky, 21 year old Jimmy with a mouth full of food looks like anything but Prince Charming. 
JUDY (O.C.) And one day, we're gonna have a house and a white picket fence and a baby. Tell me what you think we should name the baby. 
Jimmy stops smiling.    She really believes that's going to happen one day. 
JUDY (O.C.) What's wrong? 
Jimmy doesn't want to answer.    While he thinks... 
Something out the window distracts him. 
JUDY (O.C.) What? 
JIMMY Shhhh. Shut up. (grabbing camera) Give it to me. 
Jimmy whips the camera around to zoom in on what he's looking through the window. Finally, we see... 
I/E. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - BACKROAD ENTRY/PARKING AREA/DINKO'S CAR - DAY 
Judy drives up a gravel road as Jimmy films.    They travel through the back roads in Northern Kentucky.    It's nothing but woods outside the window. 
JUDY What am I gonna see? 
Jimmy doesn't answer. 
JUDY I hate it when you do that.    Tell me! 
JIMMY (O.C.) Nope.    Keep looking. 
Judy drives some more.    The camera is bouncing as they drive across dirt roads. 
Judy tries to maintain her composure, but she can't contain herself. 
JUDY How much further!    Aaa! 
JIMMY (O.C.) Shhh.    Just drive. 
Judy bites her lip and drives.    Slowly, she comes around a bend as they arrive at... 
UNCLE RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND/PARKING AREA 
Judy's eyes go wide. 
JUDY Oh my God.     Is that it? 
Jimmy doesn't say anything. He just keeps the camera trained on Judy. By the look on her face, what she's seeing looks pretty cool. 
JUDY Is this where your friend lives? 
Jimmy points the camera through the front windshield. Now we see what Judy was seeing... about thirty trailers, all along the water's edge. 
It looks like a commune for run-away teenagers with crank addictions and budding/wannabe drug dealers. The kids are throwing a combination party, barbecue, and drug festival. 
JIMMY (O.C.) This is where we live. 
JUDY We do? 
JIMMY (O.C.) Maybe. If you want to.       For a little while. 
Judy doesn't respond. She just drives. Her eyes are starting to well up a little bit. She's getting emotional. 
JUDY This is sooo amazing.       It's like a dream. 
Judy's on cloud nine.    The place has exceeded her expectations. 
Judy keeps driving as we see young people, all more or less the same age as Jimmy and Judy. Some live in trailers, some in tents. They watch as Jimmy and Judy drive in. Clearly new faces are of interest to them. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Go over here. 
Out the window, they approach another trailer.      Clearly this trailer is more important than the others. 
Outside, a dorky looking douche bag type, BUDDY (20's) talks to some of the Younger People in intense language. They all look over to see Jimmy and Judy approaching. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Stop here. 
You can hear the excitement in Jimmy's voice as Judy stops the car. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Take it. 
Jimmy hands off the camera to Judy, who retrains it on the Buddy and the Wunderland Teenagers he talks to. 
Jimmy gets out of Dinko's car and heads up to him while Judy films. We don't hear the conversation between Jimmy and Buddy man, but clearly he's happy to see Jimmy. 
Buddy gives Jimmy a big hug like he was a missed relative or an old friend. It's all smiles between the two of them. 
Jimmy comes running back over to the car. 
JUDY (O.C.) Is that Uncle Rodney? 
JIMMY No, that's Buddy. He said Rodney's been expecting us. We're, like, celebrities or something Judy. 
JUDY (O.C.) Really? 
JIMMY Yeah!   He wants to meet you. 
JUDY Wow. 
Camera shakes as Judy starts out of the car.    Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - OUTSIDE RODNEY'S TRAILER - DAY 
Buddy is standing outside of a Piece Of Shit Trailer. He's the douche bag type that we saw from a distance give Jimmy a hug in the previous scene. 
He's surprisingly charismatic and gracious and does his best to make Jimmy and Judy feel at home. 
Jimmy films as Buddy gives them a walking tour of the group of trailers by the river. Judy's with them as well. 
BUDDY We got like thirty five trailers here. Long as we've got some that's empty you can stay in one. Sometimes people come in and we got get you a tent or-- fuck, everybody's friendly--- you can always find a bed to crash in. 
Sam laughs at his own dumb joke.     Jimmy shuts off the camera. 
CAMERA ON: 
EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - DOE RUN CREEK - DAY 
Jimmy films a naked Judy swimming in the river the reflections of the water obscuring her body. She's free, cleansed, relaxed, enjoying the sun, and having the time of her life. She suddenly notices the camera. 
JUDY Jimmy, come swimming.      The water's warm. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Is it? 
Judy smiles, then slips her head under the water, coming back up with a smile. She looks up at him. 
JUDY Come on. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Later.    I just want to look at you now. 
JUDY Why? 
Jimmy thinks.    She smiles an oh so sweet smile. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Because you look happy, happier than you've looked in a long time. 
Judy smiles even wider. She floats towards camera while Jimmy zooms in on her smiling face. 
As she comes closer... 
SHE SPLASHES towards the camera, trying to get Jimmy wet. 
Camera shakes as Jimmy hops up to avoid be splashed. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Hey! 
Judy LAUGHS.   Camera goes off. 
CAMERA ON: 
INT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - JIMMY & JUDY'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
Faint moonlight comes into the trailer from outside. Jimmy is filming Judy as she's just gotten into bed. She sees the camera's on. 
JUDY Hey again. 
JIMMY (O.C.) So you like it here? 
Judy smiles again.   Then... 
JUDY How long will they let us stay? 
JIMMY (O.C.) It's up to Uncle Rodney. 
Judy smiles at the thought of Rodney. 
JUDY What's he like? 
JIMMY (O.C.) I never met him. He's supposed to be cool, though... and weird. Weird as hell. 
JUDY Well if he's weird, he's great weird, whatever he is. (MORE) 
JUDY (cont'd) If we could stay here forever, like Buddy said, I wouldn't need anything else. 
Judy's looking right over the lens into Jimmy's eyes. Then... 
JUDY The cops won't come will they? 
JIMMY (O.C.) Buddy said Rodney's cousin's the Sheriff or something. Do you want to meet him? 
JUDY (surprised) The Sheriff? 
JIMMY (O.C.) No!   Rodney. 
JUDY (lights up) Can I? 
JIMMY (O.C.) I'm gonna see him tomorrow. Buddy says he wants to talk to me. Maybe he wants to talk to you too. 
JUDY He does? 
JIMMY (O.C.) I don't know. Buddy said he thought you were pretty. 
JUDY Oh my God! 
Judy puts her hand over her mouth.   She can't believe it. 
JIMMY (O.C.) I told you you were. You're the prettiest girl in the world. 
Judy's on such a cloud nine high, she's almost in tears. She wraps her arms around him and SQUEALS with delight, pushing the camera into an awkward position as she smothers him with kisses, then squeezes him tight, like she's going to squeeze the life out of him. 
She whispers in his ear. 
JUDY (whispers) I love you Jimmy. 
JIMMY Me too. 
UNCLE RODNEY (to Hazel) There you go... 
Hazel begins whimpering again.   It wasn't nearly enough to satisfy her. 
UNCLE RODNEY There's something about addiction that brings out something beautiful in a person. Addiction is pure. Addiction reduces a person to an infant. And there's nothing more pure and beautiful in the world than an infant. 
He puts his finger to Hazel's nostril again, but this time, without any meth on the tip. She snorts with all of her might then starts crying. Uncle Rodney is toying with her. 
UNCLE RODNEY Hazel is no longer an adult. She's an infant and I'm the surrogate mother who provides her with much needed breast milk. It's a role that both of us have accepted and embrace. 
He leans over and grabs a syringe, already filled, then gently holds Hazel's arm and expertly injects the liquid into her vein. 
Nothing happens for several seconds. 
Hazel's breathing accelerates. Suddenly she sits up, her eyes go wide. Hazel clinches the bed as if she were riding a roller coaster. 
UNCLE RODNEY (proudly) That's my girl! 
Then, she makes eye contact with Jimmy. 
A curious, frightened look comes over her face.   Clearly, she recognizes him. 
She suddenly JUMPS from the bed and runs out of the room. 
UNCLE RODNEY She's a little jumpy. 
Uncle Rodney smiles, amusing himself with his own joke. 
UNCLE RODNEY Let's begin shall we? And please... I'm going to use this tape for my fans, so let's try to get this right. 
JIMMY (O.C.) OK. 
UNCLE RODNEY I apologize if any of this frightens you or makes you uncomfortable. 
JIMMY (O.C.) I'll be fine. 
UNCLE RODNEY No. You won't be fine. What I'm going to teach you will be frightening. The truth is an acquired taste but once you get to it, it's all you'll ever want. 
Uncle Rodney starts in on his mantra.   It's obvious that he's well versed in his meandering rant. 
UNCLE RODNEY Those kids out there... we, the so called "undesirables" - you and me, we know the truth. You know that society doesn't want you, your parents don't want you, corporate America sure as fuck doesn't want you... You wouldn't be here otherwise. (MORE) 
UNCLE RODNEY (cont'd) If this government had a choice, they'd gas us all in a heartbeat, exterminate us like the Jews, enslave us like niggers, cuz don't kid yourself, WE ARE the new niggers in this country. No one respects us... No one sees what we have to offer... No one has compassion for us.... They don't care, or they're too naive to see that we're a by-product of a wasteful society that has failed to educate, embrace, influence, or inspire any of us. We're societal garbage. The counter culture no longer exists. It's dead... It's been replaced by us-- 
Long pause. 
UNCLE RODNEY The garbage culture... thrown aside, imprisoned, institutionalized, systematically abused, executed, and enlisted into wars started by government ass- fuckers just to kill us off. JUST TO KILL US OFF. And every week one of you shows up here, disillusioned, addicted, angry, pissed 'cuz they tossed you aside... into the garbage. Every time someone like you shows up here the garbage culture gets a little bit stronger and they get a little bit weaker. Until the "them" and the "they" of this country run out of places to put us, to put its garbage, and the garbage OVER-FLOWS into their cities from out of the confines of the spaces that they have set aside for us. 
A pause, then... 
UNCLE RODNEY (biblical) And we will SET FIRE to their world! And we will burn it, until a living HELL REIGNS over what was their former world, and we will fornicate in their ashes! 
Rodney stops, almost out of breath. 
UNCLE RODNEY That's what's here for you.   That's what's here... 
Rodney settles himself down and takes a few deep breaths as Jimmy begins zooming out. Uncle Rodney lights a cigarette to calm himself. 
Jimmy keeps filming, not knowing whether Rodney is finished or just taking a break. 
Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - FIRE PIT - NIGHT 
Someone (Buddy) is filming a raging party consisting of a lot of strung out young white trash junkies just like the ones Jimmy was interviewing before. It's certainly a weird bunch. They all look alike, dress similar, and have the same type of crystal methamphetamine induced facial expressions. 
Most of them are smoking weed and drinking forty ounce beers while dancing around a campfire and playing the bongo drums. They all seem to be having more fun than anyone should be allowed. 
Camera pans to Jimmy, so we realize that he's not filming. Our best guess would be that it's Buddy who's filming. Jimmy screams at the camera over the noise of the Bongo drums. 
JIMMY Where's Judy? 
Buddy's hand comes into frame as he points by the fire pit. We now see Jimmy see Judy. 
She dances fervently drinking a forty surrounded by tons of other drunk, happily intoxicated teenagers. Say what you might about the attendees to the event, this party is a FUCKING RAGER and Judy is happy to be the center of everyone's attention. 
Everyone dances faster and faster as the rhythm of drums beat faster and become more intense. It's an all out jam session. 
Jimmy heads to the center of the circle of people dancing around Judy. Camera follows him with a zoom as he does. 
JUMP CUT 
Who knows how much later. Minutes or hours, the party rages forward. The camera spins around. The party has reached a new level of drunken absurdity. Most of those who are dancing are drunk, stoned or both. 
In the background, while it's too dark and hectic see anything explicit, some of the teenagers are engaged in a variety of sexual activity. Some have threesomes. Some are probably having oral sex. Still others dance around them in the foreground. 
Camera zooms in on Uncle Rodney. 
Standing just behind him, we see of flash of someone recognizable. It's a skinny woman, she looks vaguely familiar, but it's hard to get a fix with all the craziness going on. 
She turns her head to look over at Rodney. 
They mock her in a high pitched wining voice. 
BUDDY (O.C.) (mocking) Jimmy. Jimmy say something. 
RODNEY'S BIG GUY #2 (O.C.) Get her clothes off. 
JUDY (O.C.) (screaming) Noooooo! Noooooo! 
Judy screams at the top of her lungs over and over again as we hear them tearing at her clothes. Then they pick her up and start pulling her away from camera. 
Her screams get quieter and quieter... fainter and fainter. 
JUDY (O.C.) (extremely faint) Jimmy! 
Finally there's silence. The camera isn't moving.    It's on the ground and in the dark. Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - PARKING AREA - DINKO'S CAR - NIGHT 
It's completely pitch black dark. We can see nothing.    We can only hear the sound of Jimmy fumbling around and breathing heavily and nervously. 
BEGIN NITE SHOT 
Suddenly, we see everything, albeit in a weird black and white grainy fashion. Jimmy's flipped the camera into Nite Shot, using the fuzzy black and white mode as a tool to see in the complete darkness. He's strapped the camera to his wrist. 
The image is Jimmy's POV as he searches through his trunk for something. Pulling aside a duffle bag, we see the 9mm pistol that Jimmy stole from the Cop. He grabs it as camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
I/E. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - FIRE PIT/OUTSIDE RODNEY'S TRAIER/INSIDE RODNEYS TRAILER/PARKING AREA/DINKO'S CAR - NIGHT 
By the fire pit, the site where the teenage drunken of orgy took place, the bonfire has been put out and there are dozens of drunken/passed out teenagers lying on the ground in sleeping bags and in tents. 
Jimmy begins looking for Judy with his night vision camera. 
He sees a girl lying on the ground in a sleeping bag   with her back turned to the camera. Her hair is identical to    Judy's, but we can't see her face. Jimmy quietly steps over    passed out teenagers, being extremely careful not to awaken   anyone. 
Jimmy accidently kicks a forty ounce beer bottle that causes a loud clanking sound of glass on glass. 
Jimmy stops in his tracks in anticipation of someone waking up. No one does. 
Jimmy continues to walk towards the GIRL WHO LOOKS LIKE JUDY. 
Kneeling directly in front of her, Jimmy puts his hands on her shoulder and pulls the girl's front region towards the camera. The girl flips over. 
It's not Judy. And luckily, the girl is so severely intoxicated that she doesn't wake up. 
Jimmy now makes his way over to a tent. He quietly unzips the mesh entrance and extends his arm out to video tape the inside. Turns out, the person in the tent is just another passed out flunky loser. Jimmy quickly takes his arm out of the tent. 
Jimmy gives it one last go and continues to look for Judy among the sea of passed out bodies lying on the ground. 
No luck. 
Jimmy's not too far from Uncle Rodney's trailer.   He decides to make his way up. 
He walks, using his Nite Shot to see, through the sea of bodies until he gets up to the entrance... 
OUTSIDE RODNEY'S TRAILER 
There's a cracked glass door leaning up against the woodpile by the entrance. Jimmy steps around it, turning the lens at the glass. He briefly catches his reflection. He looks like hell warmed over, freshly bruised and cut from the recent beating. 
Moving forward, Jimmy makes it to the front door of Uncle Rodney's trailer. We hear music coming from inside. Very slowly and very carefully, Jimmy cracks the front door. 
INSIDE RODNEY'S TRAILER 
It's even darker inside of the trailer, but Jimmy presses forward in spite of that fact, still using his Nite Shot to see. A boom box sits by the bed, still on, playing music. 
Jimmy is scared shitless. 
In the corner of the room, in a make shift bunk, is Uncle Rodney sleeping with his arms wrapped around a girl in a spooning position. There's no doubt this time. 
It's definitely JUDY! 
They are both sound asleep and actually look very cozy lying together. Jimmy slowly walks over towards them. Each step is slower and slower, being extra careful not to wake them. 
Once Jimmy is within arm's length of the two of them he stops. He hesitates for a moment. He hasn't prepared himself for this particular situation and doesn't know exactly what to do. 
He continues filming them until he finally musters the courage to extend his non-filming arm out to tap Judy on the face. Judy remains unconscious/sleeping as Jimmy gently taps the side of her cheek. Jimmy slowly begins tapping harder and harder until the tap evolves into a poke. Still nothing. 
THWACK! An arm comes out of nowhere and grabs Jimmy's poking hand. Jimmy has woken up Uncle Rodney! 
The camera shakes out of control.   Uncle Rodney screams at the top of his lungs: 
UNCLE RODNEY Who the fuck...! 
Intense and furious wrestling ensues as Uncle Rodney flies out of frame then, in a split second: 
BAM! 
A gunshot goes off. We hear a Uncle Rodney collapse, followed by more gun shots. The camera has fallen from Jimmy's hand and dangles by the wrist strap. Camera comes to rest on... 
UNCLE RODNEY'S BLOODY FACE 
JUDY (O.C.) Nooooo. It reminds me of when we first met. Just you, me, and the camera. God, do you remember how you used to freak me out? 
JIMMY Yeah, those were the good old days. How much money do we have? 
JUDY (O.C.) I don't know, why? 
JIMMY How do you feel about Canada?   It's closer. 
JUDY (O.C.) Are we going together? 
Jimmy looks over at her. 
JIMMY I think I should take you home. 
Judy doesn't answer. 
JIMMY I could write you a letter. Or I could make a video saying I made you do everything. They'd believe you. You could tell them it was all my fault. You could tell them I was going to Mexico and I'd really go to Canada. 
Jimmy swallows. 
JIMMY We swore on the bond we'd never be apart... but... (MORE) 
JIMMY (cont'd) I'll let you out of it... If you want to be out of it, I'll let you out. 
JUDY (O.C.) You're never leaving me, and I'm never leaving you. That's all there is to it. 
JIMMY Okay. 
Judy leans in and kisses him. 
JIMMY Owww. 
Judy comes back into the passenger seat and just films him. She likes looking at him through the lens. 
JUDY (O.C.) You're so handsome, you know that? 
Jimmy smiles as best he can with his face all messed up. Then his eyes get droopy and close. 
He's not responding. He's as punch drunk as you can get. 
JUDY (O.C.) Jimmy? 
Jimmy's obviously in a concussion induced daze. The car starts to drift. Judy drops the camera on the seat as we hear her leap forward to take control of the car. 
JUDY (O.C.) Jimmy! 
JIMMY (O.C.) (snaps to) What? 
JUDY (O.C.) Jimmy, stop the car. You're too fucked up to drive. 
JIMMY (O.C.) (groggy) Huh? Oh... okay. 
Camera shuts down. 
CAMERA ON: 
I/E. HIGHWAY FINAL-SCENE/DINKO'S CAR - DAY 
Judy drives.   There isn't much talking going on. 
JUDY You wanted to ask me something? 
JIMMY (O.C.) Do you love me? 
JUDY You know I do. 
JIMMY (O.C.) I do. 
The car drives. Judy just cruises along, music playing on the radio. Jimmy (O.C.) looks in the mirror but keeps the camera trained on her. 
JIMMY (O.C.) You know I love you, right? 
JUDY Yup. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Judy? 
JUDY Yes? 
JIMMY (O.C.) We're fucked. 
JUDY What do you mean? 
JIMMY (O.C.) Look in the rearview mirror. 
Judy looks up immediately.    Her face drops. 
Jimmy flips the camera around out the back window. There's a Ohio State Trooper with its lights flashing tailing them. A lone trooper is on his radio. 
JIMMY (O.C.) That's it baby. We're done. 
Judy doesn't answer.    She's short circuited. 
JIMMY (O.C.) Just pull over. It's not worth it. 
