JURASSIC PARK 
JURASSIC PARK 
First Draft by MICHAEL CRICHTON 
Re-write by MARIA SCOTCH MARMO 
EXTREME CLOSEUP of glowing honey-colored stones.  Their shapes ABSTRACT as THE CAMERA EXAMINES air bubbles and crystalline patterns. 
MOVING UP AND OVER this amber abstraction, the CAMERA FINDS unusual shapes and imperfections caught in the glassy stone:  flecks of dirt, hairs, cracks.  STILL MOVING.  STARBURSTS OF LIGHT ricochet off the different surfaces of the stones. 
CAMERA TURNS along a creamy stretch of amber.  IT TURNS IN DEEPER, abstracting the picture further only to find A TINY BLUR that suddenly RACKS INTO FOCUS - a bug, a mosquito lodged within an amber tomb.  It is folded on its back. 
SLOW MOTION as the tip of a fine-pointed drill bores into the amber toward the trapped bug.  Orange flecks fly.  The mosquito trembles.  The drill continues, stopping just before it touches the tiny body. 
A SHINY PAIR of thin needle-nose pliers reach in the borehole and extricate the mosquito remains.  These are dropped on a brightly lit glass slide.  A conveyor belt starts, and the slide moves along. arriving under a long-lensed microscope. 
IN MICROSCOPIC PERSPECTIVE, a thin needle pierces the bug and delicately removes a fragment of tissue. 
PINCERS snare the fragment, dropping it into a narrow tube.  The tube SPINS, faster and faster until it is a BLUR on the screen. 
THE SCREEN FLOODS with an INFRA-RED LIGHT.  Gray, oval shapes rock in a neutral mist. 
WASH OUT TO: 
HOT SUN overhead in a BIG SKY - 
EXT  BADLANDS - AFTERNOON 
Lodged in the cracked earth are the partially-exposed fossilized remains of A VELOCIRAPTER, a carnivorous dinosaur.  WIDEN OUT to a SWEEPI NG PANORAMA of a dinosaur dig, a major excavation filled with workers shoveling earth and stone, making measurements, taking photographs, scribbling notes, and conferring with each other. 
The center of all this activity is one man.  In a roped-off area that circumscribes the exposed bones of the raptor, is DR. ALAN GRANT, head paleontologist.  Good-looking, late 30's, with a think beard. 
Grant lies on his belly, completely absorbed in a small piece of bone. A GROUP OF TWELVE STUDENTS, notebooks in hand, await his next sentence. 
CLOSE ON - the tiny bone.  Grant's nose touches it. 
Grant brushes the bone with a toothbrush.  Then he decides on a quicker way to clean it.  He licks it.  Excited by his discovery, he gets to his feet and addresses his students, who listen raptly. 
GRANT Right calcaneus of an adult female raptor.  Mild stress fractures.  What's this tell me? 
Students look at each other.  A tentative hand.  Grant continues. 
GRANT It tells me that this bone connects to the navicula which we already found articulating to the cuboid. 
OFFSCREEN, a woman SHOUTS to him. 
ELLIE (off) Dr. Grant!  Dr. Grant! 
Grant looks up. 
DR. ELLIE SATTLER, late 20's, sharp-eyed, tough if she wants to be, runs like a gazelle across the arid land.  Exuberant, she leaves a trail of dust behind her. 
She zips by A STUDENT guarding the cordoned area.  He tries to stop her. 
STUDENT Dr. Sattler!  Dr. Grant is thinking! 
Dr. Grant waves her over enthusiastically with his bone and continues. 
GRANT So, what can we stay for sure?  Stress fractures in the heel ... 
Uncertain students.  Ellie arrives and immediately gets into it. 
ELLIE She jumps. 
Grant turns around to her and smiles.  She's got it.  Other students to - they knew is all along. 
GRANT Right as rain, Ellie.  Now, why did she jump? 
No answer.  Ellie gives it a try. 
ELLIE A defensive posture against a vicious, blood-thirsty T-Rex? 
GRANT (nodding) Perhaps.  Or maybe to select the smaller, more tender leaves in the higher branches with which to suckle her young? 
Ellie jumps up. 
ELLIE I bet is was a mating ritual. 
Students laugh.  One student eyes Grant's self-conscious smile at Ellie. 
GRANT The science of paleontology can't answer these questions.  Novelists and artists who dream a vision of the Jurassic period can attempt these questions with their imaginations.  What we scientists can say is considering the mass and kinetic articulation of these bones, this animal had a vertical leap of about twelve feet. Not as entertaining as fiction, but absolutely fact without prejudice. 
Ellie intrudes again. 
ELLIE Excuse me, Dr. Grant.  But ... fact is, we're late.  There's the car. 
She points.  On the horizon, a limousine speeds toward them, leaving a dusty wake. 
Grant sets the rules for his departure, giving instructions individually as Ellie pulls him away, carrying their bags. 
GRANT Jim, you keep making up the plaster batches.  Whatever ratio you're using, it's perfect.  Nora, no digging after five - when the temperature drops, those bones are just too brittle.  Bill, I don't want any tourists walking over my raptor - I don't care if the Governor of Montana is with them, just you guys. 
Grant and Ellie continue walking.  She interrupts his continued barrage. 
ROS S What does he say? 
GENNARO Insists nothing's wrong on the island. 
ROSS You know him.  Do you believe him? 
GENNARO No, I don't.  I spent a lot of time with him five years ago when we raised the capital.  And it was a wild ride.  He's unpredictable, a dreamer. 
ROSS Potentially dangerous.  We should never have gotten involved.  What's our position? 
GENNARO The firm owns five percent. 
ROSS General or limited? 
GENNARO General. 
ROSS We should have never done that. 
GENNARO It seemed wise at the time.  We all wanted the park to happen.  It was in lieu of fees. 
ROSS 
In any case, I agree an inspection is overdue.  Who are your site experts? 
Gennaro tosses a list on Ross' desk.  He check it out. 
ROSS Will they tell the truth? 
GENNARO I think so.  That guy Grant's a hotshot in his field, always goes his own way - 
ROSS - Good.  You're making all the arrangements? 
GENNARO Hammond asked to place the calls himself. I think he wants to pretend the park is not in trouble.  That it's just a social invitation, showing off the island. 
ROSS All right ... Good.  But let's be very clear about one thing.  I don't know how bad this situation actually is, Donald. But if there's a problem on that island - don't be afraid to screw Hammond and burn Jurassic Park to the ground. 
Gennaro shakes hands awkwardly with Ross and leaves.  Ross paces.  Fed- up, he whispers to himself. 
ROSS Costa Rica, my ass. 
He whacks his desk globe, sends its spinning. 
CAMERA MOVES IN on spinning globe as we HEAR the ROTOR BLADES of a helicopter and DISSOLVE TO: 
INT/EXT  HELICOPTER IN SKY - DAWN 
On the helicopter tail is a little blue logo that reads: Isla Nublar. 
INSIDE, Grant, Ellie and Gennaro are in the right back row.  Ellie dozes, her head occasionally dropping onto Grant's shoulder, to his discomfort.  Gennaro looks at papers, trying not to look through the clear plexi-bubble at their feet.  Next to THE PILOT, Nedry chews a candy bar.  He offers candy to the back row. 
Grant loses himself, looking out the window. 
GRANT'S POV - the aquamarine blue of the ocean.  Below the waters there are the shadows of ample marine life.  Dolphins leap in the air. Suddenly the clear scene becomes obscured by clouds. 
There is turbulence.  Ellie wakes, glances at Grant, then out the window. There is mist and she absently traces her finger in it, shaping a dinosaur figure.  Now land comes into view and for a moment, the island below them eerily fits right into her doodling. 
PILOT That's Isla Nublar.  Buckle up, the descent is a little hairy. 
Gennaro cinches his belt tightly and half-shuts his eyes.  Nedry takes out a sandwich and cockily loosens his belt.  Ellie looks every way. 
ELLIE This is exciting! 
GRANT What is, Ellie?  Where are we going? 
Grant looks out his window. The helicopter rushes forward, low to the water.  Ahead, Grant sees the island, rugged and craggy, rising sharply 
GRANT Looks like Alcatraz. 
The pilot coughs and rubs his goggles with the back of his hand. 
PILOT There's bad wind shear on this peak. 
Grant nods.  Gennaro sweats, watching the pilot tighten his own belt. 
Ellie smiles excitedly as the helicopter starts down.  Now, A BLANKET FOG.  Grant can't see a thing out his window.  Ellie's startled. 
ELLIE How the hell is he landing this thing? 
No answer.  Grant dimly discerns green branches of pine trees through the mist.  Some are very close.  Ellie's hands grasps her seat cushion. 
ELLIE This is not fun. 
Grant looks through the plexi-bubble at his feet.  He sees the giant glowing fluorescent cross below.  Lights FLASH at corners of the cross. 
GRANT Relax, Ellie.  I'm sure they wouldn't land if it weren't safe. 
The copter suddenly SHAKES violently.  Ellie grabs Grant's hand. Gennaro sits straight up, eyes squeezed shut. 
GRANT Gennaro?  This guy knows what he's doing, Right?  Hey, Gennaro?  I'm talking to you! 
Another violent shake.  Grant squeezes Ellie's hand back. 
CLOSEUP - Nedry's hand crushes a packet of crackers. 
Gennaro is soaked.  He opens one eye and looks about, very frightened. He speaks a mantra. 
A CRANE lowers an iron grating on top of one pyramid.  An animal TRUMPETS. 
INT  VISITOR'S CENTER - DAY 
CLOSE ON - the iron security grating as it fits over a glass skylight. Above, MASKED WORKERS weld it on.  Sparks fly. 
Grant stares up at it, thinking.  Footsteps echo behind him as Regis, Ellie, Gennaro, and Nedry look around the unfinished building. 
The Visitor's Center is two stories high, a lot of glass with exposed girders and supports.  It's incomplete:  vines swing in the breeze where the back wall will go and undressed cables litter the floor.  Even so, exhibit areas are in varying stages of completion.  Behind, SEVERAL SPANISH WORKERS unpack masonry supplies. 
GRANT 
Where's Hammond? 
REGIS Mr. Hammond is dying to see you guys. 
Grant strides over to an exhibit as Gennaro paces impatiently. 
GENNARO Hot, hot, hot.  Ten billion bucks and the air conditioning sucks. 
Regis smiles apologetically and pushes open a large window on one of the finished walls.  Giant leaves and vines burst inside. 
Grant studies an exhibit in progress entitled When Dinosaurs Rules the World.  This is a large clock that presents millions of years as hours in a single day.  Many brightly colored hours are allocated to the dinosaurs.  Man receives the last second of the day.  Ellie joins Grant. 
ELLIE The audicity of man to get here at the last second and think he runs the show. 
Grant smiles at her inexhaustible enthusiasm.  He looks at a painted mural of a Raptor on one of the walls in the half-completed gift shop. 
Nedry is at a coke machine, feeding in change .  It doesn't work.  He SLAMS his hand against it, and finally, a cup drops down the chute. Upside-down.  It pours.  Coke splashes Nedry.  He curses and exits. 
THE ROTUNDA - Ellie pulls Grant over to a raised, round display with a catwalk.  In this unfinished display, a skeletal T-Rex and a Raptor are locked in combat.  Scaffolding is up around it, and painting supplies are scattered all around. 
Regis glances at his watch, looks up, and smiles. 
At that moment, doors adjacent to the rotunda swing open automatically. A soothing female voice comes out of the public address system. 
VOICE (ON P.A.) Please come to the theater.  In a moment, our film will begin. 
The voice goes on to give this information in a number of languages. Regis waves everyone into the theater.   Nedry doesn't join them.  He climbs the stairs to the second floor. 
INT  SCREENING ROOM - DAY 
Small and plush.  Regis sits in the front, full of enthusiasm.  Grant and Ellie sit further behind. Gennaro stands in the back and smokes. 
CELESTIAL MUSIC fills the room.  Mist covers and curls on the stage floor.  Colored spotlights illuminate the mist in an eerie fashion. overall effect is the touristy Where's NY? high-gloss production. 
years young, with a glint in his eye and very comfortable with his own effect.  He wears a white linen suit with a red rose in the breast pocket.  Like an elder Carl Sagan, he addresses the group. 
HAMMOND Welcome, ladies and gentlemen.  Welcome to an ancient and mysterious world, a world long before humankind inhabited it with all out remarkable dreams and questions.  Enter a world that existed one hundred million years ago.  When our changing earth was the abode of magnificent creations. 
Today, the late twentieth century has witnessed a scientific gold rush of astonishing proportions:  the headlong and furious haste to un ravel the mystery of genetic engineering has become more than just a subject for science fiction writers. 
ON GRANT - he whispers to Ellie. 
GRANT - the furious haste to commercialize genetic engineering. 
BACK ON HAMMOND - he warms to his subject. 
HAMMOND Biotechnology promises the greatest revolution in human history.  It will outdistance atomic power and computers in its effects on our everyday lives.  We'll see square trees for easy lumbering and white trout for super visibility to fisherman.  Why it will transform every aspect of human life: out medical care, our food, our health, even our very entertainment. 
ON GRANT - confirmed in his thinking, he whispers again. 
GRANT Here we go. 
BACK ON HAMMOND - he concludes. 
HAMMOND 
Nothing will ever be the same again. It's literally going to change the face of our planet as we know it. 
MUSIC SOARS.  Hammond smiles appreciatively, removes his rose.  A screen descends behind him. 
HAMMOND ... Jurassic Park.  What we do here is made possible through the miracle of DNA replication, commonly known as cloning. To explain what cloning means, I'm going to need my own clone - John Hammond. 
Another Hammond appears, projected on the screen beside the real one. 
2ND HAMMOND Hi, John! 
HAMMOND Hi, John. 
IN THE AUDIENCE - Ellie laughs aloud.  Grant, shaking his head, smiles. 
BACK ON HAMMOND - The original speaks to the clone. 
HAMMOND Okay John, hold out your finger. 
2ND HAMMOND Why? 
HAMMOND I need some of your genetic material. 
2ND HAMMOND Now just a minute here, John. 
HAMMOND Your genetic material is the same in every cell of your body.  You have a hundred billion cells.  You won't miss a couple. 
Hammond holds his rose to the screen the pricks his clone's finger with a thorn. 
HAMMOND Dinosaurs. (superbly proud) I've been cloning dinosaurs! 
CAMERA PUSHES IN on Grant's incredulous face. 
Hammond whips off the drape, revealing a complex and detailed scale model of the entire resort. 
HAMMOND Ladies and Gentlemen, Jurassic Park.  Not a resort, not a scien tific conservatory, just a little piece of pre-history that every child in the whole wide world will insist on visiting. 
Hammond grins with delight. 
GENNARO At least every rich child. 
Grant and Ellie come forward to examine the model.  The kids crowd in. 
CAMERA SNORKELS through the model - revealing different enclosures with miniature dinosaurs, moats, fences, roads, a river. 
HAMMOND Apatosaurs in the lowland.  Gallimimus in the grassy plain.  Dilophosaurus above the river.  The mighty Tyrannosaurus Rex! 238 fabulous creatures so far! 
TIMMY Real dinosaurs, Grandpa?  Don't they want to just kill each other? 
Hammond excitedly punches a button - colored display grids light up. 
HAMMOND Timmy, there's electric fences and moats and video surveillance at all times. There are monitors every hundred feet whatever we could plant them on the island.  A computer to tabulate it all. 
ELLIE You created dinosaurs?  Who gave you the right to do that? 
HAMMOND I didn't create them.  I found a way to wake them up, to stir them out of their prehistoric slumber. 
GRANT We don't have the science.  There's no source of dinosaur DNA. 
Hammond's proud, excited face shifts to one that divulges modestly. 
HAMMOND Yes ... there is. 
INT  HALLWAY, UPPER FLOOR, VISITOR'S CENTER - DAY 
Hammond leads Grant, Ellie, Gennaro, Timmy, and Lex out of an elevator and down an endless corridor.  A WORKMAN ON CRUTCHES passes them. 
They go through a series of security doors.  To get them open, Hammond places his palm on a screen before each door.  Each time, it lights up with an x-ray-like image of his hand and each door HISSES open. 
CLOSEUP - Security x-ray. of Hammond's hand.  BEEP.  A red line writes through the screen.  Can't get in.  Complaining, under his breath: 
HAMMOND Glitches. 
Hammond tries again. 
INT  CONTROL ROOM - DAY 
The door HISSES open, revealing an elaborate technology-crammed room. In dim light, clusters of computer consoles and video monitors glow. 
Nedry sits in a corner at a keyboard with a pile of papers next to him, typing away.  JOHN ARNOLD, 45, park supervisor, sits directing the activities of the park and chain-smoking.  There are large windows looking out to the park, one of which is cracked and being replaced from the outside by a TEAM OF WORKMEN. 
Hammond wears a big smile as he leads in his entourage.  He's the ringmaster. 
HAMMOND And this is the right side of my brain. The entire park is safely controlled from here.  John Arnold, that genius over there, is the m aster control operator. (with genuine concern) John, don't smoke so much, you're far too valuable a man to me. 
ARNOLD Oh, you'd survive just fine without me. 
Arnold exhales smoke and waves good-naturedly.  Nedry stares darkly at Hammond, who ignores him. 
HAMMOND Everything's controlled from here. Remote everything. Cars, feeding programs, medicine dispensers, fecal clean up - and that can be tons in a park like this.  We run this place with twenty workers.  This computer does it all.  And it polices each and every single animal out there. 
ELLIE (whispers to Grant) Who polices the computer? 
Hammond points up.  Overlooking the control room and the park is a raised platform with a huge chair, like a throne in a court.  A large video screen faces this chair. 
HAMMOND That's where I will watch the astonished watchers.  Okay, let's go. 
They practically race as a group to keep up with Hammond.  The security door seals shit, leaving Nedry and Arnold alone again. 
NEDRY Thanks for the kind word, Mr. Hammond. 
ARNOLD Come on, Dennis, he knows your technical contributions have made it all possible. 
NEDRY Right. 
BACK ON HALLWAY - 
Hammond and his group turn off the corridor and reach a door marked: CAUTION: Teratogenic Substances.  Timmy backs off, grabs Lex's arm. 
TIMMY That stuff turns you into a mutant! 
He contorts his face into strange shapes.  As Hammond leads them all in Lex pulls on his pocket. 
HAMMOND Don't mind the signs.  They're only legal precautions. 
Gennaro frowns.  The door opens and Lex peeks in. 
HAMMOND My laboratory, Lex.  It will be yours and Timmy's someday. 
INT  AMBER ROOM, LABORATORY - CONTINUING ACTION 
Grant and Ellie share a baffled look.  Grant stares. 
Grant's POV - PAN ACROSS a room filled with honey-colored glowing stones arranged on glass shelves in large pull-out trays.  Each stone is tagged and numbered. 
LEX Come look! 
Here, plastic eggs lay on the long tables, their pale outlines obscured by a grey mist that covers the tables.  The eggs are all gently rocking as TECHNICIANS roam up and down the aisles. 
Hammond walks ahead of the group.  As Wu speaks, Hammond listens and enjoys it as though he's hearing it for the first time. 
WU This is the incubation room.  We keep the temperature at ninetynine degrees and a relative humidity of one hundred percent. 
GRANT AND TIMMY Jurassic atmosphere. 
Timmy smiles at Grant.  Hammond winks at Timmy. 
WU We also run a high oxygen concentration, up to thirty-three percent, so if you feel faint, please tell me right away. 
Lex feigns a faint, Timmy cracks a small smile. They move forward, waist-deep in the mist.  A strange green light emanates from the incubators.  Lex is half-consumed by the mist. She mimics the witch. 
LEX I'm ... melting! 
Ellie laughs and pulls Lex close. 
WU Reptile eggs contain large amounts of yolk but no water at all.  The embryos must extract water from the surrounding environment. 
GRANT That's why you create the mist. 
Wu nods.  Hammond just enjoys the scene as Grant and Ellie watch a thermal sensor moving from one egg to the next, touching each with a flexible wand, beeping.  Lex and Timmy let their hands glide over the sides of the green glowing incubators fully awed by the strange, big eggs they hold. 
WU Children, please do not touch!  The eggs are permeable to skin oils. 
Grant that very close to an egg.  He sniffs it. 
GRANT What kind of eggs are these?  Are these shells plastic? 
WU Yes, they are,  The embryos are mechanically inserted and then hatched in this room.  But we've managed to sufficiently mimic the actual biological process - these creatures rupture the plastic membrane that they're contained in when they're born.  Like real births. 
They reach an endless row of incubators, lined up along the wall, beneath a viewing area like those found in an OB-GYN ward. 
WU Eggs that are determined viable spend their last couple days in our specially- designed incubators, which help accelerate the pre-natal developmental stages.  Which is interesting becaus e we're having a problem with the adult animals - 
Hammond claps a hand over Wu's mouth and laughs. 
HAMMOND There's no problem Dr. Wu can't handle. Now who wants to see the real thing? 
As they exit the CAMERA PANS the misty aisles, studying the eggs. 
EXT  VISITOR'S CENTER - DAY 
Blue shadows of clouds sweep across an expansive green hill in front of the Visitor's Center. 
Grant and Hammond make their way down below to the loading area for the park tour.  A little ahead is Gennaro and Ellie.  Gennaro chatters on while Ellie energetically explores the area, looking at the plants. 
GENNARO ... so naturally, Hammond's going to present everything in the best light.  I need to know that this park is safe. 
ELLIE I'll tell you something that troubles me from the start.  The carnivores are all well-fed and kept separated from their 
natural prey.  That'll keep 'em alive, but it won't keep 'em happy. 
GENNARO How do you mean? 
ELLIE The carnivores will want to hunt.  It's an instinct.  And that instinct will have to be satisfied or suppressed. 
FURTHER UP THE HILL, moving slowly, Hammond eyes the pair suspiciously. 
HAMMOND Gennaro is putting negative ideas into Ellie's head.  He's a naysayer.  I have no affection for that type of thinking. 
GRANT Don't worry.  Ellie makes her own judgments. 
At the base of the hill Timmy and Lex toss a baseball. 
EXT  TOUR START - DAY 
The group gathers.  TWO ELECTRIC CARS glide to a stop behind them. Regis leans out of the first one. 
REGIS Hey!  Great day for a tour! 
GENNARO Looks like rain to me. 
REGIS No!  I told the rain-god to hold it off till we got back. 
The kids pile in next to Regis and explore the high-tech cars.  Timmy finds a a pair of very think, strange-looking goggles with dials on top. 
Grant, Ellie, and Gennaro climb in the second car. 
HAMMOND Kids, mind Mr. Regis.  He's in charge now. 
The cars begin to move and pass Hammond.  He waves. 
Gennaro looks back as the cars turn into the brush.  Hammond waves. 
HAMMOND Gennaro, for once in your life, let something really move you. 
In the cruiser, Gennaro rubs his neck.  He turns to Grant. 
GENNARO Ever get the feeling we're just Hammond's damn guinea pigs? 
GRANT I like to wait and see. 
ALL THREE Dilophosaurus! 
Timmy and Lex point enthusiastically.  Regis holds them down with a gentle but restraining arm. 
PRE-RECORDED VOICE Dilophosaurus is one of the earliest carnivores.  Scientists once thought their jaw muscles were too weak to kill, but now, through the miracle of their cloning, we know Dilophosaurs spit venom, a poison which causes blindness and then unconsciousness. 
Their distinctive HOOT drifts across the afternoon air. 
GENNARO Poisonous d inosaurs, there's a liability issue without a lot of precedent. 
CLOSEUP of the nearly motionless Dilophosaurus.  One yawns wide. 
GRANT (assessing) It's like a Gila monster of a cobra.  It's a poison ... 
ELLIE Spitter! 
The Spitters bound off as Grant watches, transfixed.  A flock of birds burst from a tree and cross the sky.  Trees filter the light. 
ELLIE Are we dreaming all this? 
EXT  RAPTOR PIT - DAY 
A big hole in the ground, covered with a think wire mesh.  Suddenly, a dark claw pushes against the wire web. A SHOWER OF SPARKS.  A SCREECH animals GROWL and SNARL.  An animal slams its face into the mesh.  SPARKS illuminate a set of RAZOR-SHARP TEETH. 
Muldoon stands next to the pit, carefully loading an assault rifle. Hammond comes in a hurry.  Muldoon sees Hammond and puts down the rifle. He walks to Hammond, talking before he gets there. 
MULDOON These raptors are too damn dangerous. One of them tunneled out this morning.  He ripped a boy's arm off before I could get a bullet in him. 
HAMMOND A bullet?  Muldoon - no!  Now what?  I have five left? 
MULDOON John, they're mean as scorpions and smart as chimps.  Their little fingers make them natural cage-breakers.  We should terminate the raptor program.  They're just too smart.  Too damn smart. 
HAMMOND Oh balls.  I will not terminate the raptors just because they're behaving normally. They're hunters.  Why can't we contain them properly? 
Hammond starts to walk away.  Muldoon follows, he's not finished at all. 
MULDOON John, remember back in '88, when we started to build the containment devices? 
We ordered cattle prods, tasers, guns that blow out electric nets.  They're all too slow for these guys. If we're going to keep the raptors, I want TOW missiles and laser-guided devices. 
Hammond laughs warmly.  He pats Muldoon on the back. 
HAMMOND It's just a zoo, Muldoon.  A zoo.  Figure out a way to contain them.  And we'll sit down and have a nice long discussion about raptors - after my guests leave, okay? 
Hammond walks away.  Muldoon stares after him, jingling keys in his hand.  Muldoon lumps over to A WORKER. 
MULDOON Okay!  Get a 'dozer, start digging round the pit.  We're gonna bury some fence. And wear your rifle when you're working! 
INT  CONTROL ROOM - AFTERNOON 
Hammond enters and crosses to his throne.  Hammond swivels to Arnold who exhales smoke.  Nedry looks over, keeps typing. 
HAMMOND Wh ere are they?  Punch 'em up. 
ARNOLD They'll be by the trike's in a moment. Trike's sick again. 
HAMMOND How can you say it so matter-of-factly? The trike's.  You casually accept it, but I never can.  You know what it means when you say "by the trikes"?  "By the trike's" means that they're out there by the species:  triceratops horridus.  It astounds me every time what I've done here.  What magic, what alchemy.  We turned a piece of a rock into a dinosaur. I will never be complacent about that. 
Arnold smiles and punches a button.  WE HEAR the pre-recorded tour voice and some chatter of the kids. 
EAVESDROPPING on the tour IS INTERRUPTED by a radio transmission to the control room.  Arnold slides over and shuts off the tour monitoring. The picture on the video screen is now of a cargo boat at a dock. 
RADIO 
Hello, John.  This is the Anne B at the dock.  I'm looking at the storm patterns just south of us.  Requesting permission to leave before unloading the last three food containers. 
Nedry looks up quickly, listening carefully. 
RADIO Don't want to be stuck here if this chop gets much worse. 
Hammond reacts with quiet dismay.  Nedry quietly gets up. 
NEDRY Coffee anyone? 
He's ignored.  Arnold defers to Hammond who leans to the microphone. 
HAMMOND Hello skipper, John Hammond, how are you tonight?  I certainly don't want to imperil anyone.  But can you give us one more container of food?  Then we'll feel comfortable is the storm delays your return.  Could you help us out here?  Of course, if it looks too choppy just go, but you'd be doing us a big favor. 
RADIO Well ... we'll do our best, sir.  We'll get one more container off. How's that? 
Hammond thanks him and signs off.  Arnold looks at the darkening clouds. 
INT/EXT  CRUISERS, FOURTH TOUR STOP - LATE AFTERNOON 
The cars twist through dense vegetation with a GRINDING of gears.  The first car comes to a jerky stop. 
There is a huge TRICERATOPS lying on its side, moving very slowly, breathing laboriously.  HARDING, the tall, balding park vet, kneels on the ground.  He peers into the animal's mouth with a large flashlight. 
Before the second car can stop completely, Grant leaps out, races to the trike.  Regis tries to restrain the kids but they chase Grant and Ellie. 
Grant joins Harding on the ground.  The trike lets out a low MOAN. She's too sick to move.  Ellie and Lex squat by the animal. 
LEX I feel so sorry for her.  She's so sick. 
VET We don't know what's wrong with Freda. Every six we eks she gets like this. 
REGIS (TO WALKIE) You know, Dr. Grant, Hammond likes to come here in the evening and just sit. 
GRANT (OVER WALKIE) Where is the T- Rex? 
REGIS (TO WALKIE) Good question. 
ON GRANT - as he takes that in, nodding to himself. Studies the land. 
GRANT Maybe she's down hunting apatosaurs. 
OVER WALKIE - Regis laughs, his voice tinny over the radio. 
REGIS (OVER WALKIE) Would if she could, believe me.  Some- times she stands by the lagoon and stares at those animals, and wiggles those little forearms of hers in frustration. But the T-Rex territory is completely enclosed with trenches and fences. Believe me, she can't go anywhere. 
GRANT Then where is she? 
They hear A SOFT BLEATING.  In the center of the field, a small cage rises into view, lifted on hydraulics from underground.  The cage bars slide down.  A GOAT remains tethered in the field, BLEATING plaintively. 
The tour group stares out their windows, expectantly. 
BACK ON CONTRO L ROOM - 
Hammond, pleased, watches the giant screen that displays the tour group. Muldoon limps into the control room.  Arnold looks over. 
MULDOON Just checking in.  Everything ok? 
HAMMOND Look at them.  Leaning out the windows, so eager.  They can't wait to see it. They have come for the danger. 
MULDOON That's what I'm afraid of. 
Muldoon twirls the keys on his fingers and watches the land cruisers. 
BACK ON CRUISERS, T-REX FEEDING AREA - 
Grant watches quietly. 
The BLEATING becomes louder, more insistent.  The goat tugs frantically at its tether, racing back and forth, kicking. 
LEX What's going to happen to the goat?  Is the T-Rex gonna come eat the goat? 
Grant senses something.  He sits straight up.  Looks out intently. 
GRANT He's here. 
The goat is tethered in the middle of the fi eld, thirty yards from the nearest tree.  Grant scans the tree for the T-Rex. 
The goat senses something too.  It struggles and strains, bleating frantically.  Suddenly the mechanical SOUND of the cage coming up.  Its bars surround the goat with safety once again. 
REGIS Looks like the Rex will have its snack a little later today. 
RECORDED VOICE The sensors don't see the Rex around. She usually comes within five minutes of hearing dinner. If she doesn't, that means she's sleeping - we might have access to her at the picnic area. 
Lex and Timmy let out a sigh of relief.  The tension is gone. 
LEX I didn't want to see him get eaten.  I liked the goat. 
BACK IN THE CONTROL ROOM - 
Hammond studies the large video monitor.  He watches Grant and Gennaro. Their voices are heard in the control room. 
GENNARO (MONITOR ED) What is a carnivore got out? 
GRANT (MONITORED) There'd be no stopping it.  Huge, with no natural enemies, and a suppressed hunting instinct. 
Hammond glares.  Arnold, aware, shuts off the screen. 
HAMMOND Damn those people.  They are so negative. 
ARNOLD It's natural.  They can't fully appreciate that we've engineered the animals and the park for total safety. 
HAMMOND They comb this island like a bunch of accountants.  They don't experience the wonder, the awe of it all. 
ARNOLD You can't make people experience wonder. 
Hammond gets up and stands before the big windows overlooking the park. The quartz FLOODLIGHTS outside their area COME ON with a rosy glow and the dark jungle is opened again to their inspection. 
At his console, Nedry looks at Hamm ond.  Hammond stares out the window. The RAIN PICKS UP and bounces off the window.  Hammond speaks to Arnold without turning. 
HAMMOND It's like the Garden of Eden out there. This is the most beautiful time of day. 
ARNOLD Better rout the tour back.  They can start again sun-up tomorrow morning. 
HAMMOND Yup.  Call the kitchen.  Those kids'll be hungry when they get in. 
Arnold picks up the phone.  STATIC.  He glances over at Nedry. 
NEDRY Sorry 'bout that.  I've taken all the lines to upload some data. 
Hammond's annoyed, but contains it.  Arnold looks at Nedry, who smiles. 
NEDRY I'll clear a couple of lines for you at the end of the next transmission, sir. Here you go now, this will make it all better, Mr. Hammond. 
Nedry punches in a code. 
CLOSE ON - Nedry's fat finger punching a last key. 
ARNOLD That's not the worst of it. 
HAMMOND Oh yeah?  Please tell me what's worse than the lights going out? 
Wu smashes through the door. 
WU All the security doors are open.  Someone has been in my laboratory and the eggs have been disturbed. 
The camera pushes in on Hammond's face. 
HAMMOND Where the hell is Nedry?  Where is he? Did anybody check the damn john? 
Hammond storms out. 
INT  CORRIDOR, VISITOR'S CENTER - CONTINUING ACTION 
Hammond enters the hall.  Muldoon, racing from the other direction, yells: 
MULDOON John, the generator's shut down.  Who cut the power? 
HAMMOND Arnold's on it.  You go out and bring back the tour right away.  I don't need any of this! 
Muldoon is already running back the way he came. 
INT  GARAGE - NIGHT 
Several electric land cruisers are stored in this shadowy room.  There is a glassed-in area where Muldoon's weapons are stored:  assault rifles, tasers, tear gas canisters. 
To the side of the garage s Muldoon's red jeep.  In the passenger side of the front seat is a rocket launcher. 
Nedry storms in, wheeling his incubator.  He stop suddenly and listens. Approaching FOOTSTEPS. 
NEDRY Oh, shit! 
INT  BASEMENT STAIRS, VISITOR'S CENTER - 
Muldoon runs down a long corridor, stop with a skid and yanks open the door to the garage.  He runs out.  His boots RESOUND on the concrete. 
BACK ON - NEDRY'S PANICKED FACE as he listens to the footsteps. Wheezing, with great difficulty, Nedry bends his knees and strains.  With everything he's got, he lifts the incub ator waist-height.  And holds it. 
BACK ON MULDOON - Muldoon's footsteps ECHO as they come closer and closer to the garage.  Muldoon whips down the curve in the stairs.  His jacket catches on an incomplete section of banister. Yanks him to a stop. 
CLOSE ON - Muldoon's jacket as it RIPS, stays caught. 
BACK ON - NEDRY as he tries to heave higher, can't.  Beads a sweat roll down his brow. 
MULDOON FREES HIS caught jacket and then keep going. 
Nedry's face drips with sweat.  The incubator slips out of his sweaty palms.  Catches it with his knee.  Nedry curses and with one forceful boost, he lifts the incubator shoulder height. 
CLOSE ON - Muldoon's feet on long stairwell. BOOM. BOOM. BOOM. 
NERVOUS, NEDRY BREATHES in a labored fashion.  He looks this way and that.  He closes his eyes and with one superhuman effort, he heaves the incubator into the back seat of the red jeep.  Nedry exhales. 
At that moment, MULDOON ENTERS the vestibule between stairs and garage. 
NEDRY EYES the shadowy figure in the vestibule. Nedry's frightened face. 
MULDOON STOPS and reaches in his belt.  He pulls out his pistol.  He takes out long, shiny cartridges.  He loads the pistol. 
NEDRY LEAPS in the front of the jeep, pushing aside the rocket launcher, and zooms into the night. 
A moment later, Muldoon enters the garage.  He sniffs at the exhaust that still hangs in the air.  He looks over and is surprised to see his jeep gone.  He bends and inspects fresh tread marks. He looks up, his face straining to understand. 
EXT  PARK ROAD - NIGHT 
Nedry's red jeep flies down the park road. 
CLOSE ON - Nedry's wheel as he turns it. 
His tires skid sideways, then regain traction.  The jeep bolts up a smaller access road.  He skids to a stop at the top of the hill. 
Nedry jumps out and looks up.  His high beams illuminate a huge electric fence prominently labeled:  DANGER!  10,000 Volts! 
Two safety fences separate Nedry from the electric fence.  He races to the first one, pulls out a key chain.  He tries one key, then another, and another.  It f its.  Nedry unlocks the gate, swings open the door. 
Nedry runs to the second gate.  He slips in the mud.  He slides to the ground, dropping keys in a muddy pool. 
CLOSE ON - Nedry's hand frantically fishing for the key chain in the muddy water.  Got them!   Unlocks the second gate. 
He races to the electric fence.  RAIN PELTS him now.  Water beads on his face.  Lightning flashes on the 10,000 volts warning. 
He grabs the gate with his bare hand and swings it open. 
Nedry heads back to his jeep, his fat body strobed by its high beams. He jumps in the jeep and drives through.  Behind him, the open gates move recklessly in the stormy night. 
BACK ON GARAGE 
Ellie and Harding pull in, in their own gas-powered jeep.  Muldoon is waiting for them.  Now there's a rifle slung over his shoulder.  Harding jumps out of the jeep. 
MULDOON Get out, get out!  I need this jeep. There's a problem with the tour.  Ellie, Hammond'll fill you in. 
Ellie is concerned, the n decisive. 
ELLIE No!  I'm going with you, Muldoon. 
TIMMY Thanks, Dr. Grant. 
GRANT You owe me one. 
Grant turns around in a slow, fluid circle, checking out the forest. 
GRANT Where'd Lex go? 
They hear a faint WHIMPERING. 
TIMMY There's Lex. 
He runs.  Grant follows. 
INT  DRAINPIPE - 
Lex is curled up inside the drainpipe.  Her baseball glove is in her mouth and she is rocking back and forth, rhythmically banging her head against the back of the pipe.  She WHIMPERS. 
ON THE HILLSIDE - 
Grant and Timmy arrive at the drainpipe and stare in at Lex. 
GRANT Come on out now, Lex. 
Lex continues to band her head.  Timmy tries again. 
TIMMY It's your turn to wear the goggles, Lex. 
She shakes her head.  He holds up her baseball but she doesn't look. 
TIMMY I found your baseball. 
LEX You did? 
But she doesn't move.  Grant speaks encouragingly. 
GRANT Cone on, Lex, it must be cold in there. And tight.  Why don't you come out? 
LEX I'm afraid of the "animals". 
TIMMY The "animals" are gone. 
LEX Where did it go? 
TIMMY I don't kno w but it's not here now. 
LEX Are there any grownups out there? 
GRANT I'm a grownup, Lex.  Come on out.  Gimmie you hand, come on, here you go. 
LEX I'm hungry. 
GRANT Me, too.  We've got to get ourselves back to civilization. 
EXT  ROADSIDE 
Regis slowly crawls out from between a couple large boulders.  He looks around carefully.  He peels mud off his face and rubs his neck. 
He touches his cheek. 
CLOSE ON Regis' swollen cheek.  He rubs it with his finger.  Suddenly, he swats at his own mouth.  He reaches in and pulls out a leech fat with blood.  He hurls it to the ground, spitting.  He grabs another off his arm and rips if off, leaving a bloody streak.  He digs in his pants and pulls out another.  He SCREAMS. 
As soon as he has done so, he knows he's made a mistake.  He looks around frantically.  Sees the Rex trot down the road toward him. 
REGIS Noooooo! 
BACK ON HILLSIDE - 
Grant and the kids crest the hill.  Grant puts on the night goggles and adjusts the dial and looks toward Regis.  The kids can't see that far. 
TIMMY What's going on? 
Grant's green POV - Regis and the Rex bounding after him.  Regis hugs a tree, unmoving. 
Grant whispers to the kids. 
GRANT It's Regis and the Rex is after him.  But it's okay.  Regis knows the Rex can't see him.  Evidently, he can only see move- ment.  Regis'll be ok if he stays still. 
AFTER A LONG MOMENT, the tyrannosaur walks away, disappears into the shadows.  Regis waits another long moment and releases his tree. 
GRANT'S POV - The tyrannosaur leaps out of the shadows and knocks Regis to the ground.  Regis jumps up and backs off.  The animal knocks him right back down.  Regis jumps up again and screams at the beast. 
REGIS 
You don't want to hurt Mr. Regis.  Go away.  Ed's your friend.  Back off! 
THE REX watches him dance around.  It goes toward him.  This time its jaws are open.  Regis SCREAMS and in the middle, the scream cuts off. 
Grant lets the goggles fall off his face.  They hit the ground with a METALLIC CLINK.  The Rex turns toward Grant and the kids. 
GRANT Let's go! 
Grant grabs both the kids' hands and they begin to run. 
BACK ON  TOUR REST AREA - 
ARNOLD It wasn't a bug.  It was a trap door that fat bastard left for himself.  When he hit WHTE-RBT. OBJ, it initiates a set of commands that turned the whole goddamn park off.  Hammond was right about him. 
WU If I did that I'd leave a way to turn it back on.  In case I had to.  I'm sure Nedry did.  You're find it. 
Arnold nods grimly. 
INT  CAFETERIA - NIGHT 
Hammond sits quietly in the deserted cafeteria, calmly spooning ice cream into his mouth.  This room is lit by dozens of candles. 
Muldoon walks in, stares at Hammond in the semi-darkness. 
MULDOON We found Gennaro.  He'd badly injured. Harding's tending to him in your quarters.  He'll be all right if we can 
radio for help.  Your grandchildren and Grant are somewhere in the park.  I believe they're alive but I don't know where they are. 
HAMMOND I'm sure you'll find them. 
MULDOON I certainly hope so. 
HAMMOND I'm sure we will.  After all, I keep telling everyone, this park is made for children. 
MULDOON Just so you understand that they're missing, sir. 
HAMMOND Missing?  Of course I know they're missing.  You just said that.  Look, Bob, let's not get carried away.  We've had a little breakdown from the storm or whatever, and as a result we've had a regrettable, unfortunate accident.  And that's all that happened.  We're dealing with it.  Arnold will get the computers cleaned up, and the radio and phone lines open.  You'll find those kids and my good friend, Dr. Grant.  I'm sure they'll want some of this ice cream.  It's very good. 
INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - NIGHT 
Dark.  Ellie helps Harding get Gennaro comfortable on Hammond's couch. Blood from Gennaro's injuries stain the rich leather.  Gennaro babbles. 
GENNARO That Rex didn't even give me his full attention.  That's what hurts.  I was just an afterthought.  I gave him my full attention. 
HARDING He's had a lot of morphine. 
GENNARO (sings) Not enough. 
ELLIE I need to find Wu.  I have to run a few tests in his lab. 
HARDING He's probably in the control room, get- ting in the way while Arnold tries to put things together. 
As Ellie leaves, Genna ro is singing a shanty in his morphine stupor. 
GENNARO Yo ho, I'll close this place down ... 
EXT  THE ANNE B AT SEA - NIGHT 
The ship is tossed around on a stormy sea. 
MATCH CUT TO: 
INT  STATEROOM - 
The eggs are tossed around in the womb of the incubator.  The swell settles but the rocking of one egg doesn't stop.  The egg cracks, a silvery line runs down its side. 
EXT  PARK - NIGHT 
Somewhere in the dark park, laced by low fog, Grant, Timmy and Lex walk. 
LEX I'm tired. 
TIMMY You're too big to be carried. 
LEX But I'm tired-tired. 
GRANT Okay, Lex. 
Grant picks her up. 
GRANT Oof!  You're heavy. 
The full moon is blurred by drifting clouds.  Their blunted shadows lead the three across an open field toward dark woods beyond .  Grant is lost is thought, trying to decide where to go. 
GRANT I think we're still in his paddock. 
Lex's heavy eyes open.  Her eyes grow big.  She taps Grant's shoulder. 
GRANT What? 
LEX Don't you see?  Don't you see? 
GRANT What? 
LEX The fence. 
GRANT (squinting) No. 
TIMMY Oh I do, right there! 
Lex lets herself slide off Grant and runs into the woods.  Timmy follows.  Grant follows, squinting.  Finally, he sees.  A big smile. 
The kids look up at a twelve foot high electric fence.  Timmy gulps. 
LEX Timmy's scared of heights. 
Timmy spins in fury. 
ARNOLD Right.  And it does something else. It erases the code lines that refer to it.  It destroys all evidence it was ever there. 
MULDOON Nedry could steal the eggs, get back and reset the whole show.  No one would ever miss him. 
ARNOLD Watch this. 
Arnold types in a command.  The screen flickers and changes.  Arnold and Muldoon look out the window as lights come on through out the park. 
ARNOLD Hot damn! 
MULDOON Are the fences back on? 
ARNOLD You bet they are.  It will take a few seconds to get up to full power, because we've got fift y miles of fence out there, and the generator has to feed the capacitors along the way.  But in a half a minute we'll be back in business. 
Arnold points to the transparent map of the park.  On it, bright red lines snake out, moving throughout the park, as electricity surges through the fences. 
MULDOON Motion sensors? 
ARNOLD Got them too.   It will be a few minutes while the computer counts.  Then I'll tell you where Grant and the kids are and you can go and get them.  But every- thing's working.  Half past ten and we've got the whole thing back up and running. 
Muldoon picks up a phone, shakes his head. 
MULDOON Just hiss. 
BACK ON  GRANT AND KIDS IN TREE - 
Grant snores.  A mosquito buzzes around him.  He waves him away and continues to sleep. 
In the distance, a tiny BEEPING. Below the towering tree, across the f ield, a sensor beeps, it's green light blinks, and the beeping stops. 
IN THE HIGH TREE, the branches sway.  Grant and the kids sleep on. 
BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM - 
The glowing, glass map.  Arnold and Muldoon stare at it. 
MULDOON What is taking so damn long?  Where are they? 
ARNOLD There's a lot of extraneous movement out there.  Branches blowing, birds, back- ground movement.  It may take, ah, okay, count's finished. 
Muldoon looks at Arnold anxiously.  Arnold looks down. 
ARNOLD Hmmmm.  I don't see them.  Maybe they're out of range of a sensor. 
MULDOON Shit.  I don't know where they are.  I wish I could go out there   But I haven't got anything to use on the Rex.  My rocket launcher's in the jeep Nedry stole.  And going out with a big gun in the dark would be suicide 
INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY - NIGHT 
Brightly lit again.  Ellie performs tests with a centrifuge.  She looks at Wu, who sits across from her in a high stool, stifling a yawn. 
ELLIE Why don't you get some sleep, Dr. Wu? I'm just going to run a couple more tests and then I'm going to turn in myself. 
Wu doesn't need to be told twice.  He climbs off his stool. 
WU No point in everyone being exhausted. 
He starts to leave.  He comes back and speaks consolingly at Ellie. 
WU I'm sure Muldoon will find Dr. Grant as soon as there is light. 
Ellie appreciates his effort, nods seriously, goes back to work. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT  OCEAN - JUST BEFORE DAWN 
Beautiful dark ocean.  The sky is a rich blue.  A morning star fades as the sky lightens.  The Anne B is a small dot on the massive ocean. 
INT  STATEROOM, ANNE B 
Eggs sit in the incubator.  A hand sprays them with foam.  Leaves. CAMERA EXAMINES the eggs as the foam disperses.  More cracks.  One egg jumps with a bolt from within.  It settles.  Jumps again. 
CUT TO: 
ESTABLISHING AERIAL - the primordial beauty of Isla Nublar at dawn. 
EXT  VISITOR'S CENTER - DAWN 
Muldoon drives out into the park in Harding's jeep.  THREE WORKERS travel with him.  Each carries a rifle. 
EXT  GRANT'S TREE - DAWN 
CAMERA LOOK DOWN on Grant, Lex and Timmy still sleeping in the tree.  A large shadow falls on their quiet faces.  Lex opens an eye. She SCREAMS. 
Grant and Timmy wake up with a start. 
THEIR POV - AS THE CAMERA LOOKS THROUGH THEIR LEGS AND TILTS UP right into the huge face of A DUCK-BILLED HADROSAUR, a gigantic dinosaur with cow eyes.  Its head moves up through the canopy of the trees.  Then the head swoops way down below.  And returns to Grant's level and stares at his shoe. 
The hadrosaur tastes Grant's shoe.  The kids press tightly into Grant. 
LEX He gonna eat us? 
GRANT I don't think so.  She's a ... 
GRANT AND TIMMY ... herbivore. 
She SPLASHES into the stream. 
Timmy, first to arrive on the scene, dives in heroically.  He comes up sheepish and muddy - and sees Lex standing in a foot of water. 
The baby dinosaur rolls to a stop, mowing down a patch of saplings as she goes.  It stands up, dizzy and out of breath. 
Timmy wipes mud off himself.  Grant helps the kids out of the water. The baby triceratops follows them.  Grant yells to the baby trike. 
GRANT Go home now.  Home to Freda! 
LEX Oh, let him stay.  He likes me to ride him.  He could carry me instead of you, Dr. Grant.  Please, let him stay, 
Grant shakes his head, 
GRANT Go!  Go away.  Go!  Get out of here! 
The trike whimpers and watches the three of them walk on.  Lex is heartbroken. 
LEX Will I ever play with him again? 
Grant looks across the field, abundantly beautiful in the early morning. He has to keep them going.   He points across the field. 
GRANT We gotta get to that motion detector. It's still a ways. 
Lex looks behind her.  In the distance, more hadrosaurs join the herd eating from the tall trees.  Some cool off in a shallow lagoon.  They drink, lowering their flat heads, meeting their own reflections in the still water.  When they look up again, their heads swivel.  At the water's edge, a baby hadrosaur ventures out, squeaks, and scrambles back while the adults watch indulgently. 
EXT  OFF ROAD, PARK - MORNING 
Muldoon and his workers now follow the compys on foot.  The compys trail off in different directions.  Muldoon and his workers break apart to track the different groups. 
A BEARDED WORKER follows his party of compys.  He looks ahead and sees a small group stopped ahead.  Their heads are bent to the ground. 
A BALD WORKER has reached another cluster of compys.  Kicking, he scatters them. 
Muldoon's tracking leads him to the equipment graveyard where Nedry was lost.  He sees his stolen red jeep.  He rushes to it.  On the passenger side still sits the rocket launcher.  He opens the door to retrieve it. When he leans in, his eye catches the tilted side-view mirror.  The image is of many compys bent over the ground.  He comes around, YELLING. 
MULDOON I found Nedry! 
In the distance, the call is ECHOED. 
BEARDED WORKE R (OFF) I found him! 
BALD WORKER (OFF) Found him! 
INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - DAY 
Hammond peeks in the door and sees Gennaro, heavily bandaged, dozing on the couch.  Gennaro's eyes flutter and Hammond enters and smiles. 
HAMMOND He, Donald.  Glad you're awake.  I hope you're not going to take this little mishap you had and hold it against my park.  It would be terrible if the finishing funds were in any way held up. 
Gennaro just grins and shakes his head.  He's very high on morphine.  He wants to speak but Hammond keeps talking.  After each sentence, Gennaro enthusiastically agrees with a nod. 
HAMMOND You really shouldn't have gotten out of the vehicle.  The park is actually quite safe.  A disenchanted worker sabotaged some equipment.  Arnold, Muldoon, and Wu, all loyal employees, are righting damage 
as we speak. 
GENNARO Oh good, 'cause I love the park!  It's more than we ever dreamed!  Those brachiosaurs are so big!  And those Spitters - (he spits) - incredible!  I only have one problem. Aren't we going to have pterodactyls? (he frowns, smacks his forehead) Oh, they'd fly away! 
Gennaro looks off, watching the imaginary pterodactyls fly away. Hammond takes out a bag. 
HAMMOND Take a look at these, Donald.  Have you seen these?  These are great. 
Hammond dumps things out of the bag.  They are souvenirs of the park. 
HAMMOND Wind-up toys.  Spitter umbrellas. 
Gennaro is thrilled. 
HAMMOND I got some great t-shirts.  Dinosaur bingo, hey ... 
Hammond leans closer. 
HAMMOND Wu says he can make a foot high 
triceratops.  We'll sell pets as living souvenirs.  Bio-engineered to eat only food we sell, of course. 
Gennaro can't take it.  Great idea!  He high-fives Hammond repeatedly. 
Harding enters and gently taps Hammond on the shoulder. 
HARDING You'll have to bear with him, Mr. Hammond. He's doped to infinity and back. 
INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY - DAY 
Sunlight pours through the windows.  Ellie sits with her head in hands. She looks around and wanders the lab.  Notices a drawer, slides it open. 
X-rays.  She shuffles through, finds some marked: FREDA. 
Ellie snaps on a viewing light at her lab station.  She studies the X- ray.  She looks up in surprise.   Studies it again. 
The viewing light is snapped off.  Ellie looks again.  Wu stands there. 
WU Who gave you permission - 
Ellie attacks back. 
GRANT What is it? 
LEX I hear something. 
GRANT Come on. 
Timmy looks around. The morning is still and peaceful. Branches are motionless.  Only a little bird jumps from one branch to another. 
LEX Hear it now? 
TIMMY You're hearing things.  Come on, we gotta get back and warn them about the boat. 
Lex hesitates but doesn't want to be left behind.  She runs betw een Grant and Timmy.  Then they all hear it. 
HONKING.  It comes from the herd of duck bills behind them.  First the honking of a single animal, then another animal joins in, then another and another, until the whole herd has taken up the honking cry. 
TIMMY What's going on? 
GRANT They're agitated. 
The duckbills twist and turn.  They hurry out of the water, circling the young ones to protect them. 
With a ROAR, the T-Rex bursts from the trees, just a hundred yards away straight toward the hadrosaurs. 
LEX I told you I heard something! 
The earth SHAKES.  A low rumble is heard and felt as the hadrosaurs begin to run  in a parallel direction to the course of Grant and the kids. 
GRANT Outta the way, kids! Run! 
Grant grabs Lex, lifting her bodily off the ground, and carries her like a football.  Timmy runs beside them. 
Hadrosaurs run alongside of them.  Grant hears the crashing of trees. He takes a glance over his shoulder. 
GRANT'S POV - a flurry of flamingos takes flight and spooks the herd into changing direction.  The hadrosaurs swerve and charge right into the path of Grant, Lex and Timmy.  They all SCREAM. 
BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM - 
The quiet black room.  Hammond stands by the big window.  His pensive presence affects all in the room. 
Arnold looks at his illuminated watch. 
ARNOLD Memory should be cleared by now. 
He pushes the main switch back on.  Nothing on. 
ARNOLD Damn. 
Arnold pushes the switch off and then on again.  Still nothing.  He glances at Hammond's back.  Sweat forms on his brow. 
ELLIE What's wrong? 
ARNOLD Oh hell!  I have to turn the safety switches back on before I restart the power. 
Arnold flips on three safeties, and covers them again with latch covers. Holding his breath, he turns on the main power switch. 
First, there is the computer beep.  Ellie jumps.  Then relaxes.  The lights come on.  The screens hum.  Hammond's shoulder twitches slightly. 
ARNOLD Thank God! 
The room is jubilant.  Hugs and cheers.  Ellie picks up a phone. 
ELLIE Arnold!  They're still not working. 
ARNOLD No, it sounds dead but after a reset, all system modules have to be brought on line manually. 
Arnold quickly goes back to work at his console.  Hammond turns. 
WU (to Hammond) Arnold's about to get the phones up. 
Arnold pushes the chair back. 
ARNOLD Okay, we're up again! 
Ellie grabs the phone back up. 
ELLIE No we're not.  Phones still dead. 
Arnold swings her way. 
ARNOLD Can't be - 
HAMMOND My God, look at this, Arnold. 
Hammond points to the transparent map.  A tight cluster of dots by the lagoon move in a coordinated way.  Moving fast, in a kind of swirl. 
ELLIE What's happening? 
ARNOLD (tonelessly) The duckbills. 
WU My good God. 
ELLIE What? 
ARNOLD It's the Rex ... 
ARNOLD I'm not. 
WU Looks like you are. 
ARNOLD Can't be. 
WU Print the system status log. 
Arnold nods and rapidly strikes keys.  In the corner, a printer whirs to life.  Moments later, it spins out a single page.  Arnold tears it off. 
Ellie continues to stare at the screen.  It now flashes red:  AUX PWR FAIL!  An alarm klaxon BLARES. 
Hammond holds his ears against the noise.  He stands up. 
The room lights begin to FLASH.  They're reflected in Hammond's eyes. Hammond ROARS above the chaos. 
HAMMOND What the hell is going on? 
Onscreen, numbers begin to count backward from ten.  Hammond lurches. At zero, the lights go off, the monitors, even the computer.  Just the alarms keep screaming. 
HAMMOND You're ruining my ordered, precise park! 
Arnold ignores him, keeps pressing buttons.  Hammond rushes toward Arnold.  Arnold looks over his shoulder in surprise.  Hammond SCREAMS. 
HAMMOND Fix my park, Arnold!  Fix it! 
Arnold crosses his hands in front of his face, blocking Hammond's attack.  Hammond grabs Arnold's wrists and the two twirl to the ground. Breathing heavily, Hammond clutches his hand to his own chest. 
Arnold stands up, brushes off.  He puts himself together, looks at Hammond.  He SHOUTS over the siren: 
ARNOLD I know it's hard, I know it's hard, but I'm going to put it all back together for you - I promise.  I will 
BACK ON RAFT AT WATERFALL - 
Grant still clings to the overhanging branch, holding the raft from toppling over the crashing waterfall.  Lex and Timmy hold onto his legs. 
The ROAR of the water diminishes.  And the flow subsides from a raging current to a rolling river.  And then to a gentle stream.  A trickle. Nothing. 
Grant slowly relaxes, lets go.  So do the children.  Around the raft, the water level begins to drain.  Gradually, Grant and the kids are left in the raft sitting in just a few puddles of water.  Around them, various pumps and other equipment is exposed where it was once covered by rushing white water. 
LEX The waterfall stopped. 
TIMMY Waterfalls aren't supposed to stop. 
GRANT I think they cut the power.  Hey - 
He points and the three of them look over the edge where the waterfall once poured.  There's a shimmering rainbow and beyond that, in the mist is the visitor's center. 
GRANT Well, there's our pot of gold.  Let's go, kids. 
They grab his hands and clamber out of the raft, running toward shore. 
BACK ON CON TROL ROOM - 
Muldoon pulls open the blinds and the hot sun filters in, so the room is alternate patches of bright and dark. 
In a hot corner, Ellie squats over a prostate Hammond, mopping his brow with a cool cloth.  He murmurs, only barely intelligible. 
HAMMOND Told him, fix my park, fix my park. 
Wu brings the printout to Arnold.  The printout is a chronological rendering of control room events since the restart.  It is clear they have been running on auxiliary power.  Wu yells above the alarm: 
WU You shut down as six thirty-four this morning, and when you started back up, it was with auxiliary power. 
ARNOLD Jesus.  The auxiliary generator fires up first and then that's used to start the main generator because it needs a heavy charge.  The main generator has to be manually reset. 
WU Outside?  In the generator building? 
Arnold nods.  Muldoon points to a line in the printout: 
06:35:22   WARNING: FENCE STATUS (NB)  OPERATIVE - AUX POWER 
MULDOON This doesn't mean the fences have been off since six-thirty, does it? 
Arnold grabs the paper, looks at it, slams it down. 
ARNOLD Backup power doesn't generate enough amperage to power the electrified fences, so they were automatically kept off. That's also why we had no phones or radio. 
MULDOON All of the fences? 
ARNOLD Yes. 
MULDOON Including the velociraptor mesh? 
ARNOLD (disgusted, exhausted) Yes, yes, yes. 
In the corner, Hammond lifts his head and Ellie gently helps him to a sitting position. 
HAMMOND Do you mean those raptor s could be loose? 
ARNOLD I'm afraid so. 
MULDOON No, no way.  Last time, it took 'em two days to chew through that mesh.  But give 'em enough time, they'll get out.  We better get that power on now. 
HAMMOND Regardless, check the pit.  Make sure there' five of them there. 
Muldoon grabs Wu and pulls the inju red man to safety. 
MULDOON You ok? 
In reply Wu gets to his feet, looks where the Raptor was. 
WU Now, there's four. 
Muldoon helps Wu back inside the fence.  He waves for Ellie to come in and join them. 
Ellie takes off toward the generator building.  She YELLS: 
ELLIE I'm going in.  Muldoon, cover the door after I go in.  Wu, guide me! 
Muldoon yells for her to wait but stops when he realizes that this may be their best plan. 
Ellie races like a gazelle across the open lawn.  She's very fast and graceful.  She ducks into the generator building. 
Above it all, Hammond watches at the small viewing window. 
BACK ON - GRANT AND KIDS AT FENCE 
The three are at the top of the fence now.  Grant carefully lifts Lex above the barbed wire and she grabs onto the other side of the fence to begin the climb down.  Grant grabs Tim and lifts him next.  Tim's tense face is a river of sweat. 
INT  GE NERATOR BUILDING - 
Ellie finishes the stairs and feels her way along the basement wall. Her face is lit by a flashing yellow light.  She bangs her head on a pipe.  She rubs her head. 
ELLIE Damn, I banged my head. 
WU (OVER RADIO) Oh that's good, that must be the water pipe.  You're really close now, there's a cabinet just above your head.  Reach up and open it.  The handle turns to the left. 
Ellie turns the handle.  The cabinet opens. 
WU (OVER RADIO) It's a large throw-switch.  Pull it down, count to three, and push it back up. That's all there is to it. 
Ellie throws it down.  She counts: 
ELLIE One - 
BACK ON GRANT AND KIDS - 
Just a few feet from the bottom of the fence. 
BACK ON ELLIE - 
ELLIE Two - 
BACK ON GRANT AND KIDS - 
Grant and Timmy jump down. Lex is just behind.  Her sneaker catches in the fence pattern.  She pulls on it. 
BACK ON ELLIE - 
ELLIE Three! 
She throws the large switch back. 
BACK ON LEX - 
She jumps off the fence.  Her sneaker comes off, falls to the ground. 
CAMERA PUSHES IN ON LEX - it celebrates her narrow escape. 
Grant casually leans against the fence to help Lex with her shoe. NOTHING!  STILL NO ELECTRIC FENCES! 
The Visitor's Center is in sight.  They all turn to each other.  Elated. 
LEX We did it! 
TIM We made it! 
Lex jumps up and down.  Grant smiles, high-fives Timmy. 
BACK ON ELLIE - 
The siren and the flashing lights stop.  The room lights go on.  Ellie turns to go back upstairs.  Her foot slips, she falls to the ground. She has slipped on a pool of blood.  She jumps up, recoils. 
It's Arnold.  She squelches a SCREAM, covering her own mouth. 
SMASH!  Ellie SCREAMS as a raptor lunges at her.   He jumps down from above the water pipe Ellie banged her head on. 
Ellie turns and races toward a ventilation shaft.  She dives into it. The raptor gets there a second late and smashes against the shaft wall. 
Ellie pushes herself against the shaft wall and, using her legs to push against the wall, begins to climb up. 
The raptor smashes against the shaft again and gets inside.  Ellie scrambles up.  The raptor snarls and spits but it is momentarily pinned. 
Ellie continues her scramble up the shaft.  At ground level, she slams her feet hard against a vent, popping it open.  Scraping the wall and banging against pipes, she races toward the door. 
EXT  GENERATOR BUILDING - CONTINUING ACTION 
Ellie runs full-tilt toward the fence surrounding Hammond's quarters. Wu, injured, lies within the safety of the fenced area.  Muldoon stands with his rocket launcher just outside the fence waiting for Ellie. Ellie screams to him as she speeds across the lawn. 
ELLIE Raptor! 
Muldoon regards his rocket launcher ruefully. 
ELLIE Why don't you just nail that bastard? 
MULDOON No more ammo.  I requisitioned six charges but the bean-counter - (he thrusts a finger at Hammond) - cut it down to two. 
Ellie looks up to the ceiling.  There is a large glass skylight with crisscrossing iron bars casting an ominous shadow in the sun. 
EXT  THE ANNE B AT SEA - DAY 
The ship continues along smooth sunlit sea.  Land is in distant sight. 
INT  STATEROOM - 
The cracked egg is nudged open.  The cute scaly head of a six-inch baby raptor nuzzles its way out of the shell.  It shakes off a few pieces of clinging shell and immediately begins to devour one of the remaining eggs. 
CUT TO: 
CLOSE ON - The wind-up dinosaur skitters across the polished floor.  It bands against the  the wall again and again. 
Timmy looks down at it and smiles at Lex. 
LEX Any candy behind the counter? 
TIMMY Hungry? 
LEX Starved. 
Timmy looks behind the counter.  He sees boxes of goods.  He moves a stack of umbrellas out of his way.  Lex gets up and pulls one out. 
TIMMY Nothing. 
LEX Let's go to the kitchen. 
She smiles and pops to her feet.  Timmy's not sure. 
TIMMY Dr. Grant said - 
LEX - let's go.  We'll come right back. 
CLOSE ON - Timmy's torn face.  He's hungry, too. 
He makes the right decision. 
TIMMY Nope.  We're waiting here t ill Dr. Grant gets back.  He'll help us get some - 
Interrupted by A SOUND.  A rhythmic, horrible BREATHING.   Now some light and rapid STEPS.  And a SNIFFING.  It's definitely an animal. 
Lex backs off in a hurry. She knocks the umbrella over.  It skirts across the floor.  It spins and opens by itself.  Printed on it is the ferocious face of the Spitter, the sides of its bright poisonous gills spinning to a stop. 
The breathing gets closer and closer.  The children huddle together in a corner of the gift shop.  They SCREAM. 
It's A RAPTOR, lean and ferocious.  More like a cyborg than a hunter, it studies the kids from just outside the gift shop entrance.  His eyes flick back and forth between the two pieces of meat. 
Timmy grabs the box of toy dinosaurs.  He winds one up and sends it off across the hall.  The raptor glances over at the moving toy.  Timmy grabs another, whispers as he winds it. 
TIMMY Start winding now! 
Lex and Timmy wind toy after toy, send th em across the hall.  The raptor leaps, crushing one in its jaws.  Others waddle by.  The raptor dodges and darts, grabbing this one, smashing that one. 
The kids go running out into the hall.  They race down the Visitor Center corridor.  Timmy pulls Lex behind him toward the restaurant. 
LEX Where are we going? 
TIM The kitchen! 
INT/EXT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - 
With a huge leap, the raptor finally makes it to the roof of Hammond's quarters.  He jumps lightly onto the skylight.  Glass shatters over the assembled guests and workers below.  Total commotion and SCREAMS. 
The raptor immediately begins to gnaw at the iron bars that block the skylight.  Below, they shake off shards of glass and huddle in the corners.  Ellie turns to Muldoon. 
ELLIE How long? 
MULDOON Well, they seem to be getting faster all the time. I would say - fifteen minutes. 
Ellie no tices something out the window.  It's Grant approaching the gate.  She hammers on the glass. 
Grant's hand reaches for the knob. 
The raptor stops gnawing, its ears perked up. 
Ellie screams and screams. 
Grant notices some of Wu's remains inside the gate.  He stops and looks up.  At the window, Ellie waves her arms, warning him not to enter. Grant stops.  He sees Wu's headset on the grass, reaches through the fence, grabs it, puts it on. 
Ellie jumps up and gets her headset.  She barks into it. 
ELLIE There's a raptor on the roof of this building.  Open that gate and you're a dead man. 
Grant stares up at Ellie in the window.  He waves.  She presses her hand to the glass. 
GRANT Ellie, I'm go glad - 
ELLIE Shut up and listen.  We have about fifteen minutes here.  The computer has to be rebooted.  That'll turn on the electric fences.  Besides the r aptor stuck in here with us, there are four more ... 
LEX Are they going to be ok? 
GRANT If we can get help very soon. 
TIMMY Sshh, you guys, I'm thinking. 
He studies a grid on a large console.  He reaches out and touches a part of the screen.  There is a beep and a warning sign - INVALID ARGUMENT. PLEASE TRY AGAIN. 
BACK ON  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - 
The raptor has chewed almost all the way through the bars.  Panic below. In the middle of it all, Ellie is focused, listening on her headset. 
BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM - 
Timmy tries somethin g else.  BEEP.  Lex raises a hand.  Grant stops her. 
GRANT (TO RADIO) Ellie, we're working as fast as we can here. 
Timmy tries a screen section.  BEEP.  Again. BEEP.  Again.  BEEP.  BEEP. 
Timmy shakes his head.  In desperation he stabs at the keyboard below the touch screen.  He punches the ESCAPE button. 
The screen lights up a new message - SYSTEM RESET COMPLETED.  ALL SYSTEMS NORMAL. 
BACK ON  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - 
The raptor has just chewed through.  He squeezes his body into the space as the bars ELECTRIFY.  Spastically, the raptor jerks back and forth as the current flows through him.  He can't get out. 
Finally, with a WHIMPER, he stops struggling and slides through the space he created.  With a THUMP, he drops to the floor below. 
Ellie, Muldoon, Hammond and the workers look on in shock. 
BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM - 
Grant cheers and hugs Timmy.  Lex whoops. 
ELLIE (ON RADIO) Ok, we're all right here for now. 
Thanks. 
GRANT (TO RADIO) Don't mention it.  It was Timmy. 
ELLIE (ON RADIO) But there's still one more raptor.  So be careful. 
Timmy is pushing menus and submenus on the touchscreen now. COMMUNICATIONS - RADIO - VEHICULAR ...  He gets the one he wants. 
He indicates the radio-mike to Grant. 
TIM I think this is the boat.  They called it the Queen Anne or something. 
Grant grabs the mike. 
GRANT Queen Anne, do you read me?  Queen Anne? 
The radio crackles to life. 
RADIO This is the Queen Anne B?  I copy. What's up? 
GRANT Report your position! 
RADIO Ah, we're just about to dock here in Puntaremas.  Who wants to know?  Please identify yourself. 
Tim punches the screen which displays FARRELL, F REDERICK D. (CAPT.) Grant reads it and nods.  His voice is tough as nails. 
GRANT Try this for identification, Captain Farrell.  You are in possession of stolen biological materials.  If you don't turn that boat around and return to Isla Nublar immediately with your contraband cargo, you will be found in violation of Section 509 of the Uniform Maritime Act, you will be subject to revocation of license, penalties in excess of fifty thousand dollars, and five years in jail. Do you copy? 
SILENCE. 
GRANT Do you copy, Captain Farrell? 
RADIO I copy.  All ahead stern. 
A blinking light on a map indicates that the ship is pulling away from the harbor.  Grant nods to Timmy who terminates the radio contact. 
TIMMY What's the Uniform Maritime Code? 
GRANT Who the hell knows? 
Grant and Timmy start to celebrate again when Lex interrupts. 
LEX What good does that do?  To have the ship turn around? 
Grant turns to her seriously. 
GRANT Well it gives us ten more hours. (to Timmy) Let's see if we can raise the Costa Rican Coast Guard on that thing. 
The last raptor smashes into the control room through Hammond's viewing window.  Glass goes flying.  Grant and kids go running into the hallway. 
INT ROTUNDA - 
With the raptor in hot pursuit, the kids and Grant come flying.  Tim and Lex jump over the railing, leaping onto the skeletal display.  Grant goes for the stairs, jumping down them three at a time. 
The raptor goes after the kids, scrambling over the balcony onto the display.  The kids scamper down the display, knocking paint cans and tools off the scaffolding as they go.  The raptor is just one beat behind, and his snar ling face is splashed with red paint as he chases. 
The kids burrow into the rib cage of the Rex.  They break off floating rubs and hurl them back at the raptor.  The raptor is undeterred, closing the gap on the kids. 
