THE LOST WORLD JURASSIC PARK 
THE LOST WORLD JURASSIC PARK 
Screenplay by David Koepp based on the novel by Michael Crichton 
EXT. TROPICAL LAGOON - DAY 
A 135-foot-luxury yacht is anchored just offshore in a tropical lagoon.  The beach is a stunning crescent of white sand at the jungle fringe, utterly deserted. 
ISLA SORNA 87 miles southeast of Nublar 
Two SHIP HANDS, dressed in white uniforms, have set up a picnic table with three chairs on the sand and are carefully laying out luncheon service -- fine china, silver, crystal decanters with red and white wine. 
PAUL BOWMAN, fortyish, sits in a chair off to the side, reading.  MRS. BOWMAN, painfully thin, with the perpetually surprised look of a woman who's had her eyes done more than once, supervises the settings of the table. 
She looks up and sees a little girl, CATHY, seven or eight years old, wandering off down the beach. 
MRS. BOWMAN Cathy!  Don't wander off! 
Cathy keeps wandering. 
MRS. BOWMAN (cont'd) Cathy, come back!  You can look for shells right here! 
Cathy gestures, pretending she can't hear. 
BOWMAN (eyes still in his book) Leave her alone. 
MRS. BOWMAN What about snakes? 
BOWMAN There's no snakes on a beach.  Let her have fun, for once. 
FURTHER DOWN THE BEACH, 
Cathy keeps wandering away, MUTTERING to herself as her parents' quarreling voices fade in the distance. 
CATHY Please be quiet, please be quiet please be quiet... 
Rounding a curve in the beach, her parents disappear from view behind her.  A RUSTLING sound draws her attention, and she turns, toward where the thick jungle foliage gives way to the sand. 
A large bush, maybe twelve feet tall, is moving, its branches swaying and shaking.  Curious, Cathy walks up to the bush, which abruptly stops moving. 
A small, lizard-like animal, dark green with brown stripes along its back, steps out from the bush.  Only about a foot tall, it stands on its hind legs, balancing on its thick tail. It walks upright, bobbing its head like a chicken. 
CATHY Well, hello there! 
The animal (a COMPSOGNATHUS) just stares at her.  Cathy squats down on her haunches. 
CATHY (cont'd) What are you?  A little bird or something? 
She opens her hand.  She's got a handful of goldfish crackers. 
CATHY (cont'd) Are you hungry?  You want a goldfish? 
The compy bobs forward a few steps, cautiously. 
CATHY (cont'd) Come on.  I won't hurt you. 
The compy draws closer.  Cathy holds the cracker in the palm of her hand.  The compy gets closer still -- 
-- and hops numbly up onto Cathy's palm.  Her arm dips a bit under the weight, but it's not that heavy, and she holds it up easily.  It bobs its head, scarfs up the goldfish, and eats it. 
Enchanted, Cathy breaks into an enormous grin and returns her hand, calling back over her shoulder. 
CATHY (cont'd) Mom!  Dad!  You gotta come see this! I found something! 
She turns back. 
Thirty more compys have come out onto the sand.  They're standing there, bobbing anxiously, staring at her from a few feet away.  Cathy's smile fades. 
She turns her head slowly to the right.  TWENTY MORE COMPYS have come in from that side, forming a semi-circle, bobbing and CHIPPING as they surround her. 
CATHY (cont'd) (terrified) What do you guys want? 
BACK ON THE BEACH, 
the table is set.  Mrs. Bowman calls out. 
MRS. BOWMAN Cathy, sweetheart!  Lunch is ready! 
From around the curve of the beach, a flock of birds bolts from the jungle trees as Cathy's shrill SCREAMS suddenly pierce the air. 
MRS. BOWMAN PAUL! 
She takes off, running down the beach, Mr. Bowman leaps out of his chair and follows, and all available deck hands race off to help, kicking up geysers of sand behind them. 
DOWN THE BEACH, 
Mrs. Bowman stops dead in her tracks when she rounds the bend in the beach.  We don't see what she sees, but we hear the frenzied SQUEAKING of the strange compys.  Mr. Bowman and the Hands race past her to help Cathy as Mrs. Bowman lets loose a horrified, slack-jawed SCREAM, her mouth a perfect oval. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BOARD ROOM - DAY 
Mrs. Bowman's screaming face dissolves slowly over the YAWNING face of a bored CORPORATE EXECUTIVE, TWENTY OTHER EXECUTIVES sit around a conference table in the boardroom of a monied corporation.  All are in expensive suits, most are over sixty.  There are rows of BACKBENCHERS too, whispering in their lawyers who sit behind their clients, whispering in their ears.  Empty coffee cups and fast food containers on the table hint that everyone's been here a long time. 
-- and Malcolm BATS it away with one swift swing of his cane. The dog rolls across the floor and slinks away, WHINING.  The Butler looks at Malcolm disapprovingly. BUTLER Not an animal lover? 
MALCOLM Not really. 
INT. HAMMOND'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
MALCOLM enters a darkened bedroom.  JOHN HAMMOND lies in the bed we saw earlier, on the other side of the room; 
Medical equipment has been disguised as well as possible among the furniture and flowers, but the sheer abundance of it tells us that whatever has stricken him is going to win this battle. 
HAMMOND Ian!  Don't linger in the doorway like an ingenue, come in, come in! 
Malcolm steps further into the room. 
HAMMOND (cont'd) It's good to see you.  It really is. How's the leg? 
MALCOLM Resentful. 
HAMMOND When you have a lot of time to think, it's funny who you remember.  It's the people who challenged you.  It is the quality of our opponents that gives our accomplishments meaning.  I never told you how sorry I was about what happened after we returned. Noticing Hammond's deteriorated condition, Malcolm finds it hard to sustain anger. MALCOLM I didn't know you -- weren't well. HAMMOND It's the lawyers.  The lawyers are finally killing me. MALCOLM They do have motives.  Why did you want to see me?  Your message said it was urgent. HAMMOND You were right -- and I was wrong. There!  Did you ever think you'd hear me say that?  Spectacularly wrong. Instead of observing those animals, I tried to control them.  I squandered an opportunity and we still know next to nothing about their lives.  Not their lives as man would have them, behind electric fences, but in the wild.  Behavior in their natural habitat, the impossible dream of any paleontologist.  I could have had it, but I let it slip away. (pause) Thank God for Site B. Malcolm just looks at him for a long moment. MALCOLM What? HAMMOND (a spark in his eye) Well?  Didn't it all seem a trifle compact to you? MALCOLM What are you talking about? HAMMOND The hatchery, in particular?  You know my initial yields had to be low, far less than one percent, that's a thousand embryos for every single live birth.  Genetic engineering on that scale implies a giant operation, not the spotless little laboratory I showed you. 
MALCOLM I don't believe you. 
HAMMOND Isla Nublar was just a showroom, Ian, something for the tourists, Site B was the factory floor.  We built it first, on Isla Sorna, eight-some miles from Nublar. 
MALCOLM No, no, no, no, no, no . . . 
HAMMOND After the accident at the park, a hurricane wiped out our facility on Site B.  We had to evacuate and leave the animals to fend for themselves. And they did.  For four years I've fought to keep them safe from human meddling, now I want you to go there and document them. 
MALCOLM Are you out of your mind?  I still have nightmares, my reputation's a joke, my leg is shot -- you think I need more of that? 
HAMMOND It would be the most extraordinary living fossil record the world has ever seen. 
MALCOLM So what? 
Hammonnd picks up a thick file folder from the night table near to him and open it on his lap.  Inside, there are memos, charts, maps and photographs. 
HAMMOND I've been putting this together for over a year. (MORE) I have personal suggestions for your entire team, phone numbers, contact people.  They won't believe you about what they're going to see, so don't bother trying to convince them.  Just use my checkbook to get them there. I'll fund your expedition through my personal accounts, as such money and equipment as you need, but only if you leave immediately.  If we hesitate, all will be lost. 
MALCOLM John . . . 
HAMMOND You'll need an animal behaviorist, someone with unimpeachable credentials.  I believe you already know Sarah Harding.  She's got theories about parenting and nurturing among hunter/scavengers I bet she'd be dying to prove on a scale like this.  If you convince her to go, it'll be a major coup.  When she publishes, the scientific community must take it seriously. 
Malcolm just shakes his head, flipping through the file sadly. 
HAMMOND Your documentation, you should use forensic photographic methods, Hasselbladt still cameras, high definition video.  When the trick photography analysts take your evidence apart, make it impossible for them to say there was enhancement or computer graphic imaging.  Oh, this is very important -- avoid the island interior at all costs.  Stick to the outer rim.  Everything you need to know can be found there. Vindication lies on the outer rim. 
Malcolm gently closes the file and pushes it back to Hammond. 
MALCOLM I'm not going, John. 
HAMMOND (fatigue returning) Ian, you are my last chance to give something of real value to the world. I can't walk so far and leave no footprints; die and leave nothing with my name on it.  I will not  be known only for my failures.  And you will not allow yourself to go down in history as a lunatic.  You're too smart.  You'e too proud.  Dr. Malcolm.  Please.  This is a chance at redemption.  For both of us. There's no time to equivocate, we must seize it now, before -- 
He stops, staring over Malcom's shoulder.  Malcom turns. PETER LUDLOW, still in his overcoat, is standing in the doorway to the bedroom.  He looks back and forth from Hammond to Malcolm suspiciously. 
LUDLOW Hello, Uncle John.  Dr. Malcolm. 
Malcolm doesn't answer.  He seems to know Ludlow, and dislikes him. 
LUDLOW (cont'd) Did I interrupt something? 
Malcolm turns back to Hammond. 
MALCOLM Find someone else. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HAMMOND'S APARTMENT/FOYER - NIGHT 
In the foyer, LUDLOW hands MALCOLM his coat, just a trifle rudely, and shepherds him to the door. 
LUDLOW So, you two were just, uh, telling old campfire stories, were you? 
MALCOLM Do me a favor.  Don't pretend for a second that you and I don't know the truth.  You can convince Time magazine and the Skeptical Inquirer of whatever you want, but I was there. 
LUDLOW You signed a non-disclosure agreement before you went to the island that expressly forbade you from discussing anything you saw.  You violated that agreement. 
MALCOLM You cost me my livelihood.  That on which I relied to support my children. 
LUDLOW If your university felt you were causing it embarrassment by selling wild stories to Hard Copy, I hardly see how I am to-- 
MALCOLM I didn't tell anything, I told the truth. 
LUDLOW You version of it. 
MALCOLM There are no versions of the truth! This isn't a corporate maneuver, it's my life. 
LUDLOW We made a generous compensatory offer for your injuries. 
MALCOLM It was a payoff and an insult.  InGen never-- 
LUDLOW InGen is my livelihood, Dr. Malcolm, and I will jealously defend its interests.  People will know what I want them to know when I want them to know it. 
Ludlow tosses something to Malcolm, hard.  It sails across the foyer, upright, and Malcolm reaches out and catches it with one hand.  It's his cane. 
LUDLOW (cont'd) Don't forget that. 
Ajay just smiles. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. AFRICAN SAVANNAH - NIGHT 
The African savannah appears in shades of fluorescent green, seen through night-vision goggles.  An ANIMAL YELP comes from the left and the green vista sweeps abruptly toward it.  The world blurs momentarily, then comes into focus on a field of long grass. 
The grass ripples in a complex pattern as animals move stealthily through it.  One animal head pops up above the grass for a split-second, teeth bared, a white stripe between its eyes.  SARAH HARDING pulls the goggles away from her face. 
SARAH Hyenas.  Ace Face is the striped snout. 
Sarah is thirty, with a compact, athletic body built for the outdoors.  She loos through the goggles again, sweeping ahead of the hyenas to their prey. 
It's a herd of African buffalo, standing belly-deep in the grass, agitated, bellowing and stamping their feet. 
Sarah turns to MAKENA, her African assistant. 
SARAH (cont'd) They'll try to take down a calf. Come on. 
MAKENA Closer? 
Sarah scurries up and over a rock face.  Makena follows. Closer now, they watch as the hyenas rush the herd, running through it, trying to break it up. 
MAKENA (cont'd) You know, we could see everything from up on the edge of that cliff. 
SARAH No way. 
MAKENA But the view would -- 
SARAH No cliffs. (into a pocket recorder) F1 headed sough, F2 and F5 flanking, twenty yards.  F3 center.  F6 circling wide east.  Can't see F7. 
While she talks, breathless, fascinated by the drama before her, Sarah continues to creep closer and closer to the action. Makena follows, with growing unease. 
MAKENA Sarah. 
SARAH F8 circling north.  F1 straight through, disrupting.  Herd moving, stamping.  There's F7.  Straight through.  F8 angling through from the north. 
She's practically on top of the animals now. 
MAKENA Dr. Harding. 
Makena has a hold of Sarah's sweatshirt and is tugging her back, at least trying to slow down her progress as Sarah, wide-eyed with fascination, creeps even closer. 
Suddenly there is a tremendous BELLOWING and the grass right in front of them rips apart, trampled under the feet of the hyenas as they cluster around a fallen buffalo calf.  They yelp and jump, their muzzles bloody. 
The adults move aside, making room as the hyena pups come forward, squealing to get at the kill.  Sarah's eyes shine with excitement and she moves even closer, whispering into the tape recorder. 
SARAH Brooding behavior in evidence at the kill site, pups are ushered forward and adults help them eat, pulling flesh away from the carcass and-- 
A telephone rings. 
Sarah stops in mid-sentence, unsure if she heard what she thought she heard.  It rings again, the unmistakable CHIRPING of a cellular phone.  Sarah and Makena both move at once, pawing at a backpack. 
SARAH (cont'd) (a frantic whisper) I thought you turned it off! 
Two hyenas look inquisitively in the direction of the phone. Sarah comes up with it and jabs at a button in irritation. 
SARAH (cont'd) Yes?! 
Someone speaks on the other end.  Sarah rolls her eyes. 
SARAH (cont'd) Ian.  This better be important. 
Sarah doesn't say anything for a long moment, just listens as the voice on the other end talks.  And talks. 
SARAH (cont'd) When? 
CUT TO: 
INT. MOBILE FIELD SYSTEMS - DAY 
Ian Malcolm's leg, badly scarred, is bared and draped over the end of a bench.  Two sandbags are fastened to his ankle and MALCOLM is lifting them, painfully rehabbing his injury while talking on a satellite phone. 
MALCOLM We leave in twenty-four hours.  Five member team. 
Behind them, the SPARKS of a acetylene torch fly as WORKMEN make modifications on several vehicles, including a dark-green Mercedes Benz AAV (all-activity vehicle).  The hood of the AAV is up and the V-6 engine has been pulled out; a new, smaller engine is lowered in its place.  To one side are two long trailers, connected by an accordion-like passageway, like on a subway car, allowing one to be towed behind the other. 
MALCOLM Eddie Carr's handling all our equipment and he'll be there to maintain it.  He's designing special field trailers now, top of the line mobile research units. 
EDDIE CARR, fortyish, is barking out orders to the Workmen. 
EDDIE No, no, look at the plans, Henry, you can't place that strut laterally, it has to be crosswise, LOOK AT THE PLANS! 
From the ceiling, a large metal age CRASHES down, landing next to them on the floor with a deafening CLANG.  They leap back and look up.  A WORKMAN waves from a scaffolding. 
WORKMAN Sorry, Eddie!  Specs say it can't deform at 12,000 PSI, we had to test it 
Eddie bends down to inspect the cage, which is rectangular, constructed of inch-thick titanium-alloy bars.  Malcolm hangs up the phone and walks up, joining him. 
MALCOLM Any damage? 
EDDIE Minimal. 
MALCOLM "Minimal" is too much.   It has to be light, it has to be strong -- 
JUTTSON I want to see the nesting ground! 
Nick turns to Malcolm, eyes like saucers, and makes a futile, wordless, boy-was-I-wrong-on-this-one gesture.  Malcolm smiles, leans over, and TAPS softly on Nick's video camera. Nick raises it to his shoulder and flicks it on as the group continues on into the bush after the animals. 
IN THE BUSH, 
the baby wanders away from the group and ambles over near where Sarah crouches in the bushes.  Sarah raises her camera again and silently SNAPS a picture.  She WHISPERS to Juttson, who is beside her. 
SARAH Lone nest -- not colonial.  I don't see an egg clutch... 
She gestures and Juttson peers through a pair of field glasses. 
JUTTSON (whispering back) The empty shells are crushed and trampled.  The young stay in the birth environment, that's conclusive! 
SARAH Not without a shot of the nest. 
She sees an opportunity.  As the baby heads back to its parents, Sarah scoots right along with it, moving behind it, using its body as a shield to block her from the view of the other two. 
Nick and Eddie's faces whiten in alarm.  Nick reaches out to stop her, but he barely gets hold of the sole of her boot before she pulls away from him and duckwalks out into the clearing. 
IN THE CLEARING, 
Sarah slinks along behind the baby stego as it walks back, toward the nest, chewing the branches it carries in its south. She raises up sightly, squeezing off pictures of the herd, ever better as she gets closer. 
BACK AT THE HILL, 
the others can only watch her, aghast. 
NICK She's gutty. 
MALCOLM She's nuts. 
IN THE CLEARING, 
Sarah keeps moving closer.  The baby passes a small grouping of rocks and Sarah ducks behind them.  She's now in a perfect position to photograph the nest, and she squeezes off picture after picture from this ideal vantage point. 
She shoots the last picture on the roll -- 
-- and the camera's autowinder WHIRS to life.  Sarah looks down in horror as the camera's motor WHINES loudly in her hands. 
Th noise startles the animals.  The male turns toward her the plates on its back bristling.  Sarah gets to her feet and starts to move away, slowly. 
The male turns away from her and swings its tail, spikes extended.  It WHIZZES through the air, right at her, but Sarah leaps back at the last second -- 
-- and the tail's spikes THUD into the dirt where she was. 
Sarah CRUNCHES to the ground and the three stegosaurs dart away, disappearing into the bush, moving surprisingly quickly for animals their size. 
The others run to Sarah, help her to her feet, and pull her back, against a massive tree trunk.  But the tree trunk lifts right up off the ground. 
It's no tree, it's a DINOSAUR'S LEG, a massive one, six feet across, God knows how many feet high.  The Group gasps and looks up as a MAKENCHIASAURUS, an enormous saurupod over a hundred feet from nose to tail,  lumbers away from them. 
The Group stares in wonder as the mamenchiasaur stops and HONKS furtively, its long neck stretched out above them. 
Now a second mamenchiasaur neck cranes out of the surrounding forest trees and wraps around the first.  The first mamenchiasaur THUNDERS around in a semi-circle, getting into position behind the second. 
Nick swings his video camera straight up and the group suddenly finds itself in the middle of a mamenchiasaur mating. 
The mighty tails swing and SNAP around them as the two animals come together, and trees start snapping and falling, CRASHING to the jungle floor. 
The group panics and bolts for cover toward the only place where the trees are not falling -- which is directly underneath the animals! 
Amid HONKS and BLEATS, the swinging tails continue to deforest the jungle around them. 
The noise and chaos is deafening, drowning out the LAUGHTER and SCREAMS of the fascinated and terrified group. 
There is a momentary lull and the group dashes out from underneath the animals, disappearing into the thick forest. 
A SHORT DISTANCE AWAY, 
the Group collapses to the ground, breathless, chests heaving with wild, frightened laughter.  Sarah goes to Malcolm and throws her arms around him, exhilarated. 
SARAH Ian, you're not insane!  I'm so glad! 
JUTTSON (out of breath) Dr. Malcolm -- the world -- owes you an apology. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. JUNGLE TRAIL - DAY 
Suddenly, the Gathereres are taking their expedition a lot more seriously.  They march quickly back to base camp, their energy and excitement palpable.  NICK strikes a match and raises it to a cigarette with a shaking hand, but SARAH leans in and blows it out. 
SARAH No more smoking.  We leave no scent of any kind.  No hair tonics, no cologne, seal all our food in plastic bags.  We will observe and document, but we will not interact. 
MALCOLM That's a scientific impossibility, you know.  Heisenberg uncertainty principle.  Whatever you study, you also change. 
Nick ejects the used videotape from his camera and pulls out a sharpie, to label it. 
NICK What should I call this?  "Jurassic Pork?" 
Eddie, next to him, laughs. 
SARAH (still to Malcolm) And let's forget about the high hide. We can't do this kind of work up in a tower, we need to be out in the field, as close to the animals as possible. 
JUTTSON I'm not surprised stegosaur lived in a family group, but there's never been anything in the fossil record to prove the carnivores did. 
AT A RIDGE, 
the members of the gatherer expedition hit the dirt and peer over a ledge, watching as the airplanes bank and circle over a specific spot. 
Eddie raises a pair of field glasses. 
DOWN BELOW, 
huge metal equipment containers are shoved out the back of the cargo bays.  They SNAP off trees like matchsticks, CRUSH flat anything foolish enough to exist where they want to land. 
Now MEN pour out the rear of the planes, their low-altitude parachutes billowing open behind them. 
UP ON THE RIDGE, 
Nick looks at Sarah. 
NICK You were saying something about antiseptic? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HUNTERS' CAMP - DAY 
Metal container doors CLANG to the ground, jeep engines ROAR to life in a cloud of thick black diesel smoke, blue laser barriers SIZZLE and BURN through foliage as this group of HUNTERS establishes a perimeter around their new camp. 
PETER LUDLOW, dressed in brand new Banana Republic safari wear, steps into the center of the camp and surveys the surroundings.  He turns to DR. ROBERT BURKE, a ragged, pony-tailed man in wire-rimmed glasses. 
LUDLOW Welcome to your dream come true, Dr. Burke. 
Burke has a detailed set of satellite recon photographs that he spreads out on the hood of a jeep. 
BURKE I believe the large herbivores forage in open plains, like bison, which would explain the great variety of heat dots we're reading in the flatlands around this waterhole. Right -- here. 
LUDLOW Then that's where we're going. 
Burke flips open a manifest that he will carry with him at all times.  Inside, there are dozens of sketches of various kinds underneath.  As each vehicle ROARS out of the equipment container, Burke slips a waterproof eight by ten card with an icon of the various dinosaurs on the island into a slot in the dashboard. 
BURKE (calling them off) Hadrosaurus!  Carinthosaurus! Maiasaurus! 
As the procession goes on, Ludlow turns to DIETER STARK, the man we saw welding earlier. 
LUDLOW This is as good a place as any for base camp.  First priority is the laser barriers, I want them all up and running in thirty minutes.  Half an hour, understand? 
Dieter nods and turns to some of the HUNTERS, who number about twenty in all, that are working nearby.  But someone steps in front of Dieter, cutting him off.  It's ROLAND TEMBO, the hunter from the bar in Mombassa. 
ROLAND Cancel that, Dieter. 
LUDLOW What?  Why? 
Roland points to a stream running nearby. 
ROLAND Carnivores hunt near stream beds.  Do you want to set up base camp or an all-you-can-eat people bar? 
LUDLOW (thinks) You heard his, Dieter.  Find a new spot.  And remember, we're after herbivores only -- no unnecessary risks. 
Dieter SIGHS and goes to work.  Roland puts an arm around Ludlow and pulls him aside. 
ROLAND Peter, if you want me to run your little camping trip, there are two conditions.  First -- I'm in charge, and when I'm not around, Dieter is.  Your job is to sign the checks, tell us we're doing a good job, and open your case of scotch when we have a good day.  Second condition -- my fee.  You can keep it.  All I want in exchange for my services is the right to hunt one of the tyrannosaurs.  A male.  Buck only.  Why and how are my business. If you don't  like either of those conditions, you're on your own.  Go ahead and set up your camp right here, or in a swamp, or in the middle of a rex nest, for all I care.  But I've been on too many safaris with rich dentists to listen to any more suicidal ideas.  Okay? 
LUDLOW (what else can he say?) Okay. 
ROLAND Good lad. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. JUNGLE 
The jungle foliage shivers, quakes, and finally falls as the Hunters' convoy ROARS into the hart of the jungle.  DIETER STARK stands in the front of the lead vehicle, the "speedbird," waving the convoy forward, his Driver (CARTER) at the wheel beside him. 
LUDLOW is in the back seat of the speedbird next to DR. BURKE. ROLAND and AJAY, his tracker, are in the second jeep.  They look up as the brakelights on the speedbird flash and the car stops, forcing the rest of the convoy to halt as well. 
In the front, the speedbird flashes its lights at something in front of it.  Dieter climbs out, plainly irritated.  He walks around the front of the car and sees -- 
-- four PACHYCEPHALOSAURS eating grass in the middle of the jungle trail.  They're about five feet tall, thick, heavy-set animals whose distinctive feature is an enormous skull casing, a tall, impressive crown that rises on the tops of their heads.  Dieter doesn't seem impressed.  He looks back at Ludlow, who look at Dr. Burke. 
Burke stands up in his seat, a look of wonder on his face. 
BURKE Pachycephalosaurus! 
LUDLOW Carnivore? 
BURKE (enchanted) Huh?  No!  No, herbivore, late Cretaceous.  Very unusual plant eater, see that distinctive domed skull?  That's nine inches of solid bone. 
LUDLOW (who cares?) Just get them out of the way, Dieter. 
DIETER COME ON, MOVE IT!! 
The pachys look up at him sluggishly, still eating, like cows chewing their cuds.  As unimpressive with him as he is with them, they go back to their grass. 
DIETER (cont'd) Oh, for God's -- 
He slings his rifle off his  shoulder and aims it at the closest animal.  Behind him, Roland has climbed out of the second jeep. 
ROLAND Dieter.  This is a round-up, not a war.  Use your powers of persuasion. 
Dieter gestures to the speedbird to pull ahead, which it does, slowly, toward the animals.  The pachys look up, alert, but do not move.  Dieter walks toward them. 
NICK (angry) Ruining everything, that's what they're doing.  You could choke on the diesel smoke already! 
SARAH Ian, nothing we observe will be valid if we're trailing along in the wake of an army. 
Kelly has a pair of binoculars and is studying the vehicles as they move below. 
KELLY "InGen."  What's InGen? 
MALCOLM Where does it say that? 
KELLY On the side of that one truck. 
Malcolm takes the binoculars and stares down there himself. 
JUTTSON InGen is a genetics corporation, isn't it? 
NICK (to Malcolm) Is that who we're really working for?!  Gene splicers?! 
MALCOLM No!  We're an independently funded expedition. 
SARAH Funded by whom? 
MALCOLM John Hammond. 
JUTTSON But he's the head of InGen! 
NICK You gotta be kidding. (to Malcolm) You dragged me out of Greenpeace to be a corporate stooge?  You couldn't get anybody else? 
KELLY Yeah, what have you done, Dad? 
SARAH We'd better keep moving, or we'll lose them. 
The group moves on ahead, but Malcolm lingers, angry, staring through the binoculars. 
MALCOLM What are you doing to me, John? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. THE CAVES - DAY 
AJAY and ROLAND make their way through the foliage and come into a small clearing, where a cluster of caves is carved into the rock.  Ajay freezes, gesturing ahead, to the cave on the far left. 
Roland pulls up a handful of grass and releases it on the breeze.  It floats back between his legs.  That's good. 
He proceeds toward the cave, carefully, Ajay behind him.  They can see nothing beyond the yawning mouth of the cave, only a black interior. 
Roland pauses, looking down.  On the ground to his right he sees the partially eastern leg of a creature.  It's old, crawling with white maggots and flies. 
Roland continues on.  Closer to the cave, he now passes the skull of a large animal, some of the flesh and green skin still adhering to the bone.  It, too, is covered with flies. 
Still he continues on.  A short rise leads into the cave, and they edge up it.  From inside the cave, they can hear an odd SQUEAKING sound, very high-pitched. 
Crawling now, Roland and Ajay scale a four-foot circular rampart of dried mud, and peer into -- 
-- the tyrannosaur nest.  It's flattered inside, about ten feet in diameter, completely encircled by earthen walls. 
A BABY TYRANNOSAUR, about four and a half feet long, is in the center of the nest.  It has a large head, very large eyes, and its body is covered with a fluffy red down, which gives it a scraggly appearance. 
It SQUEAKS repeatedly, tearing awkwardly at the remains of a chunk of animal flesh, biting decisively with tiny, sharp teeth. 
The cave itself is a foul boneyard.  ANIMAL CARCASSES litter the edges, flies BUZZ in the captive air.  Roland raises a bandana to his nose to cover the stench.  He  turns to Ajay and WHISPERS. 
ROLAND It's the rex nest. 
Ajay nods.  The baby tyrannosaur hears the whisper and looks up, cocking its head in curiosity. 
AJAY Make a blind here?  Wait for the buck to return? 
ROLAND (shakes his head no) If the nest is upwind, so are we. When he comes back, he'll know we're here before we have a chance.  The truck -- 
In the nest below, the baby SQUEAKS angrily at the intruders. 
ROLAND (cont'd) -- is to get him to come where we want him. 
The baby SQUEAKS again, indignant.  Roland turns and looks down at it.  Thinking. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. RIDGE - DUSK 
As the sun glows bright orange on the horizon, NICK raises a pair of binoculars to his eyes and peers down at the vista below the ridge. 
In the lenses of the binoculars, we can clearly see a mixed herd of midsized herbivores -- HARDOSAURS, PACHYCEPHALOSAURS, and CALLIMIMUSES -- racing across the plain below. MALCOLM, also staring through binoculars, lies on the ridge beside him.  SARAH is several feet behind them, her back pressed against a tree, unwilling to go to the lip of the ridge. 
THROUGH NICK'S BINOCULARS 
We see a shaky point of view of the herd running.  The binoculars whip to the right -- 
-- revealing a jeep chasing the herd  Not just one jeep, in fact, but a whole FLEET OF HUNTER PURSUIT VEHICLES! 
There are two herding jeeps, one motorcycle, as speedier mini-jeep, and, further behind, a container truck and a wrangler's pickup truck. 
Although there's a great deal of commotion below, up here it's almost eerily silent. 
ON THE RIDGE, 
the three of them creep along, hiding behind a stack of fuel barrels.  They lean around the edge for a look.  They're directly behind the row of vehicle. 
They move, into the open, covering the ground between them and the jeeps.  Reaching them, Nick hits the dirt and wriggles under the first one.  Malcolm and Sarah stand lookout. 
UNDER THE JEEP, 
Nick pulls the bolt cutter from his back pocket.  He squirms along until he finds the jeep's fuel line -- 
-- and he snips it.  He ducks out of the way just as the stream of fuel begins to pour into the dirt. 
MALCOLM AND SARAH 
move slowly down the line, standing watch as Nick crawls out from under the first jeep and proceeds to the second.  They hear another SNIP, then keep moving, to cover him as he moves to the third. 
From in the distance, Malcolm hears a sound, a faint, high-pitched SCREECHING.  He turns and looks to that direction. 
EXT. JUNGLE CLEARING - NIGHT 
It's the baby T-rex, still SCREENING.  Up in a nearby tree, ROLAND and AJAY have spread some broken branches crosswise to form a high hide of their own about ten feet off the ground. 
They wait. 
Roland raises his binoculars.  The light of the camp spills all the way out here, illuminating some of the jungle.  He scans it, searching for any sign of movement. 
EXT. HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT 
Back in the camp, Sarah, Malcolm, and Nick have finished with all of the vehicles except the badly battered one, which is parked some distance away, undergoing repairs.  The motor pool area is now a soggy lake of spilled gasoline. 
The saboteurs walk casually across the camp, unnoticed in the drunken revelry.  They pass several tents, the shadows of the partiers visible as they move inside. 
They continue across the camp and arrive at the other side -- 
-- to face the caged animals.  The carinthosaur that was tranquilized earlier stands there dully, eyes heavy and glassy, still under the effects.  They pass a stegosaur, its row of fine bristling. 
And finally they reach the largest cage, which houses a triceratops the size of a pickup truck, Nick pulls out his trusty bolt cutters.  He looks at them, a glint in his eye. 
NICK Hang on.  We may encounter some turbulence. 
INT. HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT 
In one of the hunter tents, PETER LUDLOW leans over the satellite recon pictures of the island, planning the next day's assault with DIETER and DR. BURKE, their paleontologist. There are small wooden dinosaur models scattered around the photos, indicating where certain species can be found. 
BURKE If you're really interested in infants, we'll have better luck at the seaside, because the sands offer a cushioning surface where the egg clutches can -- can -- 
He trails off.  A low RUMBLING sound can be heard outside, and the little wooden dinosaurs start shaking on the board. 
They look at each other.  The RUMBLING gets louder.  Outside, someone SHOUTS; on the board, the little dinosaurs start hopping and bouncing from the vibrations, the SHOUTS outside turn to SCREAMS, they turn and look at the back of the tent -- 
-- and the triceratops bursts right through the canvas! 
EXT. CAMP - NIGHT 
HUNTERS go flying as the tent-covered triceratops, its horns tearing through the canvas, RUMBLES across the camp.  Men SHOUT in alarm, the triceratops BELLOWS in anger and confusion, chaos reigns. 
In the crush of PEOPLE running every which way, MALCOLM and SARAH are swept off in one direction while NICK is buffeted in another.  They SHOUT, but cannot be heard over the frey. 
The triceratops, blinded by the canvas shroud, stomps right through the fire in the middle of the camp AND THE TENT BURSTS INTO FLAME. 
Now really upset, the animal panics and lashes out in all directions, blasting through tents, demolishing and/or setting ablaze anything that gets in its way.  Its considerable hindquarters SLAM into a parked jeep, sending it rolling across the camp. 
The jeep flattens the largest tent and SLAMS down on its side. Its broken gas line SPRAYS gas over the ground, the gas hits one of the dozens of small blazes the triceratops has left in its wake, and the flame shoots up the ribbon of gas. 
The jeep explodes. 
OUT IN THE JUNGLE CLEARING, 
Roland and Ajay, up in the tree, leap to their feet as a fireball rises up from the camp in the distance. 
ROLAND What in God's -- ! 
BACK IN THE CAMP, 
the rest of the newly-freed animals now storm through the camp.  The blue laser barriers bounce crazily and go out as the sending units are trampled underfoot by the fleeing animals. 
AT THE RIDGE OF CAMP, 
Nick takes advantage of the downed lasers to slip part the bordere of the camp and disappear into the jungle in one direction, while Malcolm and Sarah vanish in the other. 
The burning tent, which was the equipment tent, now detonates in a series of smaller EXPLOSIONS. 
Dieter and several others are knocked to the ground by the series of concessive blasts.  He drags himself up onto all fours, charred and bruised.  A burning tire rolls slowly past him, spinning to a stop -- 
-- at ROLAND's feet.  Dieter looks up at him. 
ROLAND Last time I leave you in charge. 
OUT IN THE JUNGLE, 
Nick breaks out into the jungle clearing, the same one where Ajay and Roland had their blind.  He sees the baby tyrannosaur chained to the stake. 
NICK Sick bastards. 
He goes to the animal, which now BLEATS in pain, its broken leg hanging at an odd angle.  With one strong tug, Nick pulls the stake out of the ground. 
BACK IN THE CAMP, 
SARAH Okay, there's the metatarsals -- tibia, fibula -- there it is!  See it?  That's a fracture, just above the epiphysis. 
They peer closely at the monitor. 
NICK That little black line? 
SARAH That little black line means death for this infant.  The fibula won't heal straight, so the ankle joint can't pivot when he stands on his hind feet.  The baby won't be able to run, and probably can't even walk. It'll be crippled, and a predator will pick it off before it gets more than a few weeks old. 
MALCOLM Can you set up? 
SARAH (thinking) It has to be temporary, something that'll break apart and fall off as the animal grows... 
MALCOLM Think fast, Sarah. 
The tyrannosaur, still in pain, SHRIEKS again. 
EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT 
Through their binoculars, the rest of the group watches the trailer carefully.  Even inside, the animal's SCREECHES are clearly audible.  Kelly is getting scared. 
KELLY What are they doing?  Why don't they hurry?! 
EDDIE Give me the radio. 
From the trailer, the baby lets out a long, plaintive SHRIEK -- 
One by one, Eddie, Kelly, and Juttson turn around and stare into the night jungle. 
INT. TRAILER - NIGHT 
NICK holds the animal while SARAH fits an aluminum foil cuff around its injured leg and paints it with a coating of resin. MALCOLM, at the window, stares out anxiously.  The animal thrashes again. 
NICK Give it more morphine! 
SARAH We'll kill it with too much, we'll put it into respiratory arrest!  I'm almost done.  Damn it, I need another adhesive, something pliable I can -- 
Her eyes fall on Nick.  She holds out her hand, urgently. 
SARAH (cont'd) Spit! 
He spits his bubblegum into the palm of her hand.  The baby rex CRIES OUT again. 
EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT 
From the swaying jungle, there is another answering ROAR. 
And this one's closer. 
In the high hide, the rest of the group stares, trembling.  In the distance, a flock of birds SHRIEKS and takes flight as the tops of some trees move, a whole section of forest suddenly coming alive, as if brushed by wind. 
But it's not the wind. 
They hear noises, THUDS in the jungle.  And then another section of forest trembles.  Closer.  Another flock of birds bursts out of the treetops and swarms past the high hide. 
KELLY What is it? 
Dr. Juttson puts an arm around Kelly, instinctively pulling her closer to him.  Eddie WHISPERS urgently into the walkie-talkie. 
EDDIE Sarah, come in! 
JUTTSON It's moving.  Fast. 
INT. TRAILER - NIGHT 
There is a radio box mounted on the far wall of the trailer. The speaker BUZZES urgently with Eddie's VOICE. 
EDDIE (o.s.) Sarah, Malcolm, can you hear me?! 
On the table, Sarah is frantically molding Nick's bubblegum into place on the makeshift splint.  But the baby rex, regaining its strength, is thrashing again. 
SARAH Hold it down, Nick! 
NICK I'm trying! 
EDDIE (o.s.) (from the radio) Is anybody there?! 
Malcolm moves to answer the radio, but Sarah SHOUTS to him. 
SARAH Ian, get the bottle of amoxicillin and fill a syringe!  Quick injection of antibiotics and I can get it out of here! 
Forsaking the radio, Malcolm moves to the medicine drawer and comes up with what she wants.  Working fast, he draws twenty cc's of the pink liquid. 
EDDIE (o.s.) (still from the radio, now desperate) SARAH OR IAN, ANSWER ME! 
They ignore him as Sarah grabs the syringe and makes the injection. 
EDDIE (o.s.) WHATEVER YOU BROUGHT INTO THE TRAILER, GET IT OUT NOW! 
EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT 
Eddie has given up on whispering as he clutches the radio desperately. 
EDDIE WE ESTIMATE TWO LARGE ADULTS HEADED IN YOUR DIRECTION!  I REPEAT -- 
INT. TRAILER - NIGHT 
Malcolm slump against the wall of the trailer.  SARAH and NICK sit on the floor leaning against the opposite wall, completely drained.  Sarah pulls out her pocket recorder and speaks shakily into it. 
SARAH Note to Dr. Juttson -- Tyrannosaurus rex does nurture its young. 
They laugh weakly. 
NICK There's, uh -- there's an unwritten rule when a news crew is in a war zone.  You stop the van every two miles and decide whether or not to go on.  Whether or not you feel lucky. One "no" from anybody in the group and you turn around right there, no question asked, nobody embarrassed. (pause) Well?  Do we go on? Immediately: 
SARAH No. 
MALCOLM No. 
NICK No way. 
They all laugh. 
MALCOLM All right.  I'm satisfied with the evidence we have right now. I feel vindicated.  John Hammond will too. (to Sarah) Do you have enough to publish? 
SARAH They will come after me.  But I can collect some stool samples, for DNA with that, Nick's tapes, and the rest of you to back me up, it should stand when we get back. 
MALCOLM (getting up) Then the only thing left to do is make sure we do get back.  I'll call the mainland on the satellite phone and have them send the boat right now.  This expedition is over. 
He goes to the desk and picks up the heavy gray satellite phone that's resting in a battery pack.  The front panel lights up, a brilliant green. 
But from the wall speaker, the radio CRACKLES and EDDIE'S VOICE breaks through, soft and empty. 
EDDIE (o.s.) Oh, God.  I am so sorry. 
Malcolm and Sarah look at the speaker box. 
MALCOLM What the hell is he sorry f- 
A low RATTLE sneaks into the trailer.  Malcolm, Sarah, and Nick takes a step forward from the walls, looking around.  The RATTLE gets louder, the trailer shakes and vibrates, everything in it starts to BANG against the walls -- 
-- and something huge SMASHES into the side of the trailer. 
They're all thrown against the far wall, there is an earsplitting CRACK of electricity, the entire trailer rocks and sparks a brilliant blue, and then everything goes black. 
The satellite phone flies out of Malcolm's hands and SMACKS against the wall.  It lands on the floor, its number pad still glowing green. 
Nick crawls over and looks out one of the windows.  Outside, the flank of one of the tyrannosaurs wipes past the window, revealing the second tyrannosaur, charging straight at the trailer! 
NICK HANG ON TO SOMETHING! 
They hurl themselves at the nearest solid object and hang on for dear life.  The charging rex SLAM into the side of the trailer, which rocks up on one side, BANGS back  down, and is quickly RAMMED again by the furious animal.  This time the entire trailer rolls over, completely upside down. 
Sarah, Nick, and Malcolm let go of their precarious handholds and drop onto the ceiling.  The tables, chairs, lab equipment, everything that's bolted down clings to the floor above them; everything that isn't RAINS DOWN ON THEM. 
But the rexes aren't done.  The trailer JOLTS INTO MOTION, sliding forwards. 
SEEN FROM OUTSIDE, 
the upside down trailer, which is the rear of the two trailers, slides along the muddy ground, pushing up earth in front of it. 
IN THE TRAILER, 
SARAH They're pushing us! 
Malcolm, frantic, crawls up to a window to get a look outside. He looks down and sees a T-rex footprint in the earth outside as they move past it. 
He cranks his head to get a look at the direction in which they are being pushed.  His eyes widen at something he sees outside the window. 
MALCOLM Oh, God. 
SARAH What?! 
MALCOLM They're pushing us over the cliff. 
Sure enough, out the back window, we see a few more feet of muddy earth, and then nothing but inky black.  The three of them look at each other for a moment -- 
-- and then crawl like hell toward the other end of the trailer.  The opposite end reaches the edge of the cliff and starts up to tip ever-so-slightly downward.  They reach the accordion-like connector and Malcolm crawls into it. 
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD OF THE FRONT TRAILER, 
which is right-side-up, Malcolm can see the two rexes hard at it, pushing the front end of the trailer. 
IN THE REAR TRAILER, 
Nick has a pretty good grip at the top of the trailer, but Sarah can only cling to an air vent in the ceiling as stuff starts to roll and tumble past her, headed downhill. 
The angle increases, the trailer dips, and now stuff starts to freefall, right past her, some SMASHING her in the head. 
Malcolm, still in the connecting tube, grabs hold.  Sarah, starting to be pulled downward, paws at the refrigerator, getting a g rip on the handle.  The door, held by a safety latch, doesn't open. 
Below Sarah, debris falls to the rear window of the trailer. Through the CRACKING glass, we can see the surf, CRASHING five hundred feet below. 
The refrigerator bolts suddenly CRUNCH free of the wall.  The box strains on its power cord. 
Still clinging to the handle, Sarah swings wildly as it starts to come loose, swaying above her. 
The safety latch on the door gives, it swings open, and a shower of food BANGS off of her as gravity empties the contents. 
Sarah loses her grip and plummets through the now-vertical trailer.  She SCREAMS, covers her head, and SMASHES into the rear window.  The glass spiderwebs, but does not break. 
FIVE HUNDRED FEET BELOW, 
Eddie bolts out of the car and runs to the front trailer.  He SHOUTS in through the broken front window. 
EDDIE HEY!  HELLO?! 
IN THE REAR TRAILER, 
The three look up from their precarious positions. 
MALCOLM WE'RE IN HERE!  GET SOME ROPE! 
OUTSIDE, 
Eddie turns and run back to the jeep.  He grabs a coil of rope, secures one end around a tree, and hurries back to the trailer. 
IN THE REAR TRAILER, 
Eddie dashes over the mess in the front trailer and crawls out into the extended connector.  He peers over the edge, down into the second trailer, and tosses the rope. 
EDDIE Catch! 
The rope falls through the center of the trailer, its end dangling all the way out the smashed rear window.  But the trailer SHUDDERS, starting to move again. 
SARAH We're sliding! 
EDDIE Climbs up if you can! 
OUTSIDE, 
Eddie runs out of the trailer in time to see the wheels dragging forward through the mud as the weight of the dangling trailer pulls the whole thing toward the edge of the cliff. 
He runs for the jeep and grabs hold of the power winch on the front grill. 
Behind him, the trailer rolls closer to the edge of the cliff. 
Eddie races back to the trailer, pulling out a length of cable behind him.  He runs up to the still-moving trailer, dives for its towing hook, the cable goes taut -- 
-- and he falls short.  Just by six inches, but he's out of cable. 
EDDIE Damn it! 
INSIDE THE TRAILER, 
Nick and Sarah are now together, clinging to the rope near the bottom of the trailer as it shifts around them.  Malcolm is further up, also clinging to the rope. 
OUTSIDE, 
dirt and rocks pile up around the wheels and spill over the edge of the cliff. 
Eddie, back at the jeep, reels out more winch cable.  He turns and races back to the trailer just as gravity starts to LIFT THE FRONT END OFF THE GROUND! 
Eddie dives again, and this time the cable hook CLICKS securely into the trailer's towing hook.  The trailer lurches toward the edge of the cliff and stops. 
But the jeep is jerked forward by the sudden pressure. 
IN THE TRAILER, 
Malcolm clings to the rope in the middle of the trailer while Nick and Sarah try to struggle up it, but a sudden dig knocks them back, and their hands slide down the line.  SCREAMING, they slide through the trailer and their feet SMASH through the remains of the rear window. 
Regaining hold of the rope at the very end, the two of them now find themselves hanging out of the rear end of the trailer, dangling over the rocky shore below. 
IN THE JEEP, 
Eddie hits the gas and the tires slosh in the mud, trying to get a grip.  The jeep pulls just enough to lower the front trailer back to earth.  But the tires spin, fighting to hold it there. 
ON THE CLIFFSIDE 
Sarah and Nick dangle, desperate. 
IN THE JEEP 
Eddie CHUNKS the shifter into four wheel drive and GUNS the engine.  As the motor ROARS, the sound is topped by another ROAR, in the distance. 
And this one's not a machine.  But Eddie doesn't hear it.  He GUNS the engine again.  There is another ROAR from the jungle. 
Eddie hears this one.  He darts a look at the side view mirror.  In it, he sees one of the TYRANNOSAURS bolt out of the jungle behind him. 
He GASPS and looks at the other side view.  In it, he sees the OTHER REX racing toward him. 
The tyrannosaurs STOMP forward to confront the ROARING jeep. The first rex bends over, CHOMPS down on the rear tire, and lifts the car to its teeth. 
But the spinning tire LINGS in the rex's mouth, burning it. Surprised by the fight in this foe, the rex loses its grip and the jeep BANGS back down onto the ground. 
Eddie, horrified, dives down under the steering wheel, to get away.  The gas pedal pops up -- 
-- which makes the trailer pitch over the side of the cliff. 
But the rex STOMPS down on the jeep to prevent its escape. The trailers stop. 
Now the rexes lean down, over the jeep, and focus on Eddie, who still covers under the steering wheel.  The first rex SNAPS at him, hitting the steering column with it, leaving Eddie fully exposed. 
He SCREAMS and the second rex lashes in, seizing him in its teeth and tossing him out of the car. 
Eddie pops up into the air between the two rexes, both their heads flash at him at the same time, and in a split-second, he disappears between their teeth. 
Now completely ignored, the jeep rolls freely forward and the trailers drop over the edge of the cliff. 
He steps off the path, into the jungle.  But as we come around the front of Carter, we see he's wearing a Walkman, the headphone BLARING tinnily in his ears. 
And he didn't hear a word. 
EXT. THICK OF THE JUNGLE - DAY 
Only a few feet off the path, it's primary forest, the growth so thick that almost all sunlight is obscured.  DIETER claws forward until he finds a suitable spot to relieve himself. 
He clears away a bunch of leaves and debris and raises his hand to his belt buckle.  He freezes, hearing something we didn't.  He glances around, head darting, alert to any danger. 
Nothing there.  Just a few distant ANIMAL CALLS-- 
-- and s SCURRYING around to his left. 
Dieter snaps his head in that direction.  At first, he sees nothing, but as he moves closer, gun extended in front of him, he sees a small dinosaur, a COMPSOGRATHUS, the same chicken-sized animal Cathy saw on the beach so long ago. 
DIETER It's not polite to -- 
He pulls the steel rod out of a loop in his belt and touches it to the compy's back.  The blue bolt of electricity CRACKS and dances over the compy's body and it convulses in pain. 
DIETER (cont'd) -- sneak up on people. 
The wounded compsognathus scurries back into the jungle, whimpering.  Dieter clambers through the foliage ten or twelve paces, pushes aside two large palm fronds, and steps out into -- 
-- more jungle.  He stops, puzzled, not sure if he went back or forward. 
He looks behind him.  He pauses, recalculating the path he took coming into the jungle, MUTTERING to himself, gesturing with his hands, retracing his steps. 
He adjusts his angle slightly to the right and heads off in that direction.  But after five or six hard-fought steps, he stops again.  Still nothing but jungle. 
DIETER HEY!  CARTER!  YELL OR SOMETHING, I GOT TURNED AROUND IN HERE! 
ON THE TRAIL, 
Dieter's cries are faint, but audible.  The only Marchers hear enough to hear him is CARTER, but the Walkman is blaring in his ears. 
DIETER (o.s.) ...Carter... me?... 
IN THE JUNGLE, 
Dieter hears that SCURRYING sound again, this time from his right.  He adjusts his angle again and SCRAPES through the foliage, moving faster and faster. 
Panicking, he ties to run, but the roots rise high out of the ground in the jungle, and he trips on one and falls flat on his face. 
He looks up.  The SCURRYING sound comes again, this time ten times louder than before, like a hundred feet coming at him. 
Dieter GASPS as something rushes in at him. 
He whirls to his right.  Whatever it is rushes in from that side as well.  And the left.  And behind him.  Dieter scrambles up into a sitting position -- 
-- and laughs.  He is surrounded by at least forty compys now, the same as the one he wounded. 
For a long moment, they just stare at him.  Slowly, he brings his gun around, to point it at them. 
DIETER Easy -- wait -- one more sec- 
As one, the compys SHRIEK and hurl themselves forward, covering Dieter's body.  Their teeth and claws FLASH as they each try to grab a scrap of his flesh, tearing savagely. 
Dieter SCREAMS and flails, waving his arms and legs wildly. Some of the tiny animals lose their grip and sail off, SMASHING into trees or the ground.  But dozens of others hang on, and Dieter falls over backwards, now lying on his back on the ground. 
Hysterical, he fights like hell to get to his feet, SCREAMING, shaking, swatting the compys loose.  He spins, and that tactic seems to work, as the compys themselves begin to panic and drop off of him.  But he also loses his grip on his weapon, which goes flying, landing in the thick foliage five or six feet from him. 
Losing the attack, the compys turn and dart away en masse, stopping ten yards away from him. 
But they turn and regroup, facing him in a line, hopping up and down, CHIRPING and SHRIEKING. 
Dieter bounds into the foliage, looking for his gun.  But the compys follow him in and he's forced to flee, abandoning his lost weapon. 
Ten feet on, he stops, knowing he's screwed without the gun. He turns to face the pursuing compys. 
They stop. 
Dieter charges them, SHOUTING, waving his arms. 
The compys turn and run.  Dieter stops. 
The compys stop.  They stare back at him.  There is a moment of quiet, then they start to hop again, CHIRPING and SQUEALING. 
Dieter, tired of this game, turns and runs away. 
The compys follow. 
EXT. JUNGLE - DAY 
From the front of the convoy, ROLAND SHOUTS out. 
ROLAND Break's over, move on! 
The exhausted marchers drag themselves back to their feet and start to march again.  At the rear of the group, someone taps Carter, who is still listening to his music.  Carter gets up, hoists his backpack, and marches away. 
Behind him, Dieter's pack is left, forgotten, on the jungle trail. 
EXT. DEEP IN THE JUNGLE - DAY 
DIETER stumbles along, exhausted.  He reaches the edge of a stream that runs under the foliage, and his feet slip on the stones.  He falls, into the rocky stream. 
ROLAND Oh, no. 
IN SARAH'S TENT, 
Kelly and Sarah have laid down on top of sleeping bags, trying to get a few minutes' rest.  Sarah's shirt hangs over them, swaying in the gentle breeze coming through the open flap. 
As the shirt dangles there, swinging softly from side to side, we notice the broad red smear across the front.  Oh, that's right -- it's blood. 
The baby T-rex's blood. 
AT THE RIDGE OF CAMP, 
the thin plume of smoke leads down to a tiny cooking fire that's been lit by DR. BURKE. 
He's set a small frying pan on top of it, and now he CRACKS the dinosaur egg he picked up earlier into the pan. 
Roland and Ajay run up behind him. 
ROLAND (hisses) ARE YOU OUT OF YOUR MIND?! 
Burke leaps out of the way as Roland kicks dirt on the fire. 
BMBB! 
Roland, Ajay, and Burke all freeze.  What was that? 
IN SARAH'S TENT, 
Sarah and Kelly sit up.  They felt it too. 
BMBB! 
AT THE COCKING FIRE, 
ROLAND Get my weapon. 
Ajay turns and trots away a few steps, then stops cold, staring down at the ground. 
BMBB! 
A recent rain has all left puddles scattered around the camp, and impact tremors now create ripples in the puddles -- concentric circles spreading to the outer edges. 
BMBB! 
IN SARAH'S TENT, 
Sarah and Kelly are frantically sealing up any opened food into Ziploc bags. 
BMBB! 
Now they leap into Sarah's sleeping bag, to seal themselves, and draw the zipper up, all the way around. 
Outside, the silhouette of the rex's head passes by the tent. Sarah works faster, her fingers struggling to close the last few inches, but -- 
-- the rex head pokes through the flap of the tent.  It sniffs, SNORTING the air in and out.  It looks around the tent. 
It sniffs Sarah's hanging shirt, the one that is stained with the blood of the baby tyrannosaur.  The adult tyrannosaur GURGLES again, COOING and cocking its head curiously. 
In the sleeping bag, Sarah and Kelly's eyes are barely visible, wide in panic.  The rex sniffs and nudges the bag, trying to figure out what this thing is. 
It rolls the bag over once, decides it's uninteresting, and then rises, straights up -- 
-- taking the whole tent with it!  The stakes pop out of the ground as the tent rises high up into the air and flutters away, leaving the sleeping bag fully exposed on the ground beneath it. 
IN THE CAMPSITE, 
the SECOND TYRANNOSAUR now steps out of the jungle, joining the first.  Panic hits the camp as the sleeping HUNTERS wake up.  Many of them start to run. 
Roland scrambles toward his tent, where he can see his weapon lying near the open flap.  As he draws close, an enormous T-rex foot stomps down on the tent, driving the rifle deep into the mud. 
Roland, weaponless, stands frozen, watching as the panicked Hunters flee in all directions. 
ROLAND FOR CHRIST'S SAKE, DON'T RUN! 
But they ignore him, sweeping him up in the wave of flushed prey that pours across the campsite.  Some toss random and ill-aimed GUNSHOTS back at the rexes. 
ACROSS THE CAMPSITE, 
NICK bursts out of the crowd, sees Kelly and Sarah struggling to get out of the sleeping bag, and grabs each by an arm.  He rips them to their feet and sweeps them off ahead of him, into the jungle. 
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE CROWD, 
MALCOLM, blinking back sleep, stands a good head above the rest of the panicking crowd.  Frantically, he scans the group. 
MALCOLM KELLY?  KEEEEELLLY?! 
But he can't see her. 
AT THE EDGE OF CAMP, 
the two rexes join forces, herding the fleeing Hunters into a narrow ravine. 
UP ON A ROCK RACE, 
Roland scrambles up a steep rock face.  No way in hell he's going down  that ravine.  He sees Malcolm, still in the middle of the camp, start to head for the ravine. 
Malcolm and Roland see the rex walk away from the waterfall with Burke, leaving the hiding place unmolested.  Malcolm is nearly hysterical. 
ROLAND She's okay!  They'll stay in there, she's okay! 
IN A JUNGLE CLEARING, 
routed Hunters emerge from the gully at the edge of he jungle.  Ahead of them, there is a large open plain covered by long "elephant" grass. 
AJAY, running along with them, stops abruptly at the edge of the grass, SHOUTING to the others. 
AWAY NO!  DON'T GO INTO THE LONG GRASS! 
Not in the frenzy, they ignore him.  Behind Ajay, the enormous shadows of the two pursuing tyrannosaurs stop as well, holding up at the edge of the jungle. 
Ajay, torn between a sense of responsibility and his better judgement, opts for the former and races into the grass after the other Hunters, waving his arms. 
UP ABOVE THEM, 
Roland and Malcolm come out onto a rocky ledge that has a view of the plain below.  Roland can see the Hunters leaving trails as they plow through the grass. 
ROLAND Elephant grass! 
ON THE PLAIN, 
the groups of Hunters wades into the middle of the long grass. One of them stops and turns, looking back at the jungle trees. 
HUNTER They gave up!  They're not chasing us! 
There are CHEERS, SIGHS OF relief.  In the distance, AJAY'S VOICE can be heard, faintly calling to them to come back.  Up on the rock in the distance, they can see Roland, waving his arms madly. 
But in the giddiness of their escape, they pay it no mind. They continue plowing into the high grass, anything to get further away from the tyrannosaurs. 
ABOUT FIFTY YARDS AWAY, 
the tops of three animal heads rise up slowly, backlit by the full moon.  In the distance, the heads can seethe Hunter party.  The heads descend, back into the grass. 
BACK WITH THE HUNTERS, 
they continue forward, oblivious.  Now behind them, four more heads rise up in the grass.  As then descend. 
On all sides of the Hunters, the grass ripples as animals move forward toward them, undetected, inexorable as torpedoes. 
And these torpedoes are on target.  One Hunter is suddenly dragged down, yanked silently below the surface of the tall grass. 
In his place, a long, lizard-like tail rises up as the animal drops its head to make the kill. 
Behind him, two more Hunters are taken down, and two more animal tails rise up in their place.  A Hunter ahead hears the RUSTLING and turns.  His face turns white as, behind him -- 
-- a VELOCIRAPTOR springs out of the grass. 
Velociraptor runs upright on its powerfully muscled hind legs, the second tow of each foot bearing an extra-large curved claw, carried in a retracted position, with which it slashes on attack. 
Like now.  This raptor SNARLS and SLAMS into the body of the Hunter, taking him down.  A feeding frenzy ensues.  The Hunters run in all directions, but are pulled down and vanish into the twitching long grass. 
Another raptor enters from the right, leaps high into the air, past the full moon, SLAMS into the chest of more human prey, and takes him down, into the grass. 
Behind them, Ajay's face falls, defeated.  He looks around, realizing he too is now stranded in the middle of the long grass. 
Around him, four torpedo trails head straight for him. 
Ajay simply closes his eyes. 
UP ON THE ROCK, 
Roland turns away from the carnage, pained. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. RUINED CAMPSITE - NIGHT 
SARAH, MALCOLM, KELLY, NICK, ROLAND, DR. JUTTSON, and PETER LUDLOW stand in the ruins of their campsite, their ranks decimated, spirits shattered. 
Roland is at the hole in the ground where his tent once was. He has pulled his .800 Nitro Express from the mud and more or less cleaned it, now he's checking the loads. 
Kelly, nearly catatonic with fear, clings to Sarah, and it doesn't look as if she'll ever let go.  Malcolm, who is on his knees picking through the wreckage of a tent, looks over at them, but Sarah waves him off -- "she's okay." 
Roland appears, standing over the group.  He looks at Malcolm, who has found the Lindstradt rifle, intact. 
ROLAND How many rounds did you find for that weapon? 
MALCOLM Four, counting the one in the chamber. 
ROLAND Don't let it out of your hands again. (to Sara, but looking at Kelly) Can the kid walk? 
SARAH Ask her. 
ROLAND Can the kid walk? 
KELLY I can.  I can walk. 
While he addresses the group, Roland straps on one of the servo-lights, the shoulder-mounted flashlights that follow your gaze. 
ROLAND We're going to find a path down into the interior of the island.  Load up whatever you think you need, and I mean need.  If you can't carry it indefinitely, don't bring it.  We'll hit the worker village in a couple hours and be out of here before dawn. 
AT THE EDGE OF CAMP, 
Roland rejoins them. 
ROLAND Tyrannosaur urine.  I don't want anything to do with it, and neither does any other animal on this island. This building is now demarcated as the rex's territory.  As long as you stay in that building, you'll all be safe until the helicopter comes. 
He drops his pack, swings his gun off his shoulder, and checks the load.  Dr. Juttson looks fearful. 
JUTTSON Where are you going? 
ROLAND After the rex.  I saw a fresh kill back in the valley with tyrannosaur tracks all around it.  If I'm not back in time, don't wait for me. 
SARAH You've got to be kidding. 
ROLAND Runs against my nature to hole up in a cave and wait. 
LUDLOW Do you think the rex might have the infant with it? 
ROLAND Possible. 
Ludlow takes off his hat and turns to Nick. 
LUDLOW You know how to work a radio, don't you? 
SARAH You're going too? 
LUDLOW I lost everything I came after on this trip, but one T-rex in one theme park could single-handedly bail InGen out of Chapter 11. 
He takes a slip of paper from the brim of his hat and hands it to Nick. 
LUDLOW (cont'd) This is the broadcast frequency.  ID yourself as "Harvest Leader."  You know what to tell 'em. 
MALCOLM You gentlemen feel you have to do this now? 
ROLAND Now's the perfect time.  The animal just fed, so it won't stalk us for food.  Predators don't hurt when they're not hungry. 
Ludlow double checks the clip on his semi-automatic rifle -- 
NICK No. 
-- and SMACKS it back into the belly of the gun. 
NICK (cont'd) Only humans do. 
CUT TO: 
INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM - NIGHT 
The console of a sophisticated radio set-up glows brightly, all green, red, and yellow.  NICK tunes the dial to a specific frequency.  The radio WHINES and HISSES tuning in. 
NICK (into microphone) CQ, CQ.  This is InGen Operation Harvest Leader to Harvest Base.  Come in, please. 
The remaining SURVIVORS, minus Ludlow and Roland, shine their flashlights around the dusty, vine-hung interior of the communications room.  On the wall a row of chrome letters says "We Make The Future,"  but the words are obscured by a tangle of vines.  Mushrooms and fungi sprout from the carpet. 
On one wall, there is a mural of what the completed Jurassic Park would have looked like.  Big hotels, Ford Explorers with tourists leaning out the windows taking pictures, big crowds at the fences around the animal exhibits.  But none of it came true, and now even the mural is runny and dust-covered. 
There is a pause, filed only with radio static.  Sarah looks at Nick tensely, waiting.  Finally, a VOICE comes over the radio, clean as can be. 
VOICE (o.s.) Go ahead, Harvest Leader. 
They all breath a sign of relief. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT 
With Roland and Ludlow gone on the hunt and the rest of the group inside the operations building, main street stands deserted and silent. 
Nearly deserted, anyway.  Moonlight shadows lengthen at one end of the street -- 
-- and FIVE VELOCIRAPTORS STROLL INTO TOWN. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. VALLEY OF DEATH - NIGHT 
ROLAND AND LUDLOW are back in the valley of death, standing amid the giant skeletons of long-dead animals.  Roland bends down, checking the carcass of the freshly-chewed HADROSAUR he saw earlier. 
A set of giant three-toed rex tracks leads away from the carcass, down the stream bed.  Roland follows them.  Ludlow follows Roland. 
As they near a bend in the stream, Roland looks down, at the surface of the water.  A pattern of ripples moves toward them, washing over their ankles.  Roland follows the ripples with his eyes.  From up head, around the bend, he can hear the sound of an animal eating and drinking.  A very large animal. 
He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a  pinch of the ashes from the cooking fire that he scooped up earlier and releases that on the wind.  They float there for a second, suspended, then blow back at him. 
LUDLOW We're downwind.  Good. 
Roland darts a contemptuous look at him.  He puts a finger to his lips, gesturing for silence, then steps up, onto the shore.  Ludlow follows. 
They creep forward, toward the sounds.  They round the bend and Roland hits his belly, edging up over a small rise. 
Over the rise, he sees the TYRANNOSAUR, about a hundred yards ahead.  It's stooped over the stream bed, drinking.  Like a bird, it dips its head in the water and then straightens up, to let the water fall down its throat.  A dozen COMPYS are at the water as well, drinking. 
Roland gently FLICKS the safety on his gun to "off." 
Ludlow edges toward the cover of a low-hanging branch.  As he puts his weight on one knee, it presses down hard on the middle of a small stick, which CRACKS in half.  Roland turns, eyes blazing. 
Out in the open, the tyrannosaur snaps its head sharply as well, staring in the direction of the sound.  But since Roland's own head is turned, he doesn't see the dinosaur's reaction.  Roland holds a warning finger out to Ludlow. 
EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT 
MALCOLM, SARAH, KELLY, NICK and finally DR. JUTTSON run out the front of the operations building.  At the end of the street, they can see the helicopter as it descends slowly over the building, to land on its roof. 
MALCOLM There it is! 
Happily, the group double-times it down the street, headed for the chopper.  Again, those strange rock formations are everywhere.  Some seem to be on the sides of buildings, as if they once dripped there and then turned to stone. 
This time Sarah pauses at one that is dripping over to the side of a car like solidified lava.  Her face falls as a thought occurs to her. 
SARAH Ian.  It's guano. 
MALCOLM What? 
SARAH These formations.  They're dried -- 
MALCOLM Birdshit? 
A VELOCIRAPTORS jumps onto a fallen tree trunk behind them. 
They don't see it. 
NICK Who cares?  Let's go! 
Unaware of the raptor's presence, they resume their trot toward the helicopter.  Behind them, the raptor crouches and SNARLS, but the sound is lost under the WHINE of the helicopter's engines.  It springs, covering the distance between them quickly. 
The animal SLAMS into JUTTSON, the last person in the group, and takes him down.  Juttson is thrown forward, into the others, who fall like dominoes. 
Juttson SCREAMS, his voice an unnatural, high-pitched SQUEAL, as the raptor flips him over and lowers its jaws into him. 
Sarah looks up, panicked.  Her eyes widen at the sight of a SECOND RAPTOR, this one running straight at hr at top speed. She buries her face in the dirt, covering her head with her hands -- 
-- and the raptor's foot SLAMS into the ground between her legs as it bounds over her and dives onto Juttson, joining the first raptor in the kill. 
Panicked, the group scatters in all directions.  Kelly jumps up and scrambles into the middle of the street, where she hits the dirt and crawls under a fallen shed in the middle of the road. 
Malcolm rolls over to the space where Kelly was, but she's gone now.  He looks around frantically. 
MALCOLM Kelly?!  KELLY?! 
Sarah rolls onto her feet and sprints toward the building nearest her. 
Behind her, a THIRD RAPTOR gives chase, bounding after her with horrifying speed.  Sarah runs flat-out, but her speed is nothing compared to the raptor's, and it gains on her rapidly. 
The walls of a structure of some kind close in around Sarah, and as she leaps across a leather seat and SLAMS a door behind her, we realize she's crawled into the back seat of an abandoned car. 
But the car door is thin protection against the charging raptor, which SLAMS into the window, head first.  The window spinderwebs, but does not yield.  The raptor crumples to the ground. 
Sarah looks up, through a three inch hole in the middle of the web.  The raptor leaps back to its feet and plunges its nose into the tiny hole, thrashing, widening it. 
Sarah SCREAMS and the animal forces its entire head through the hole, SNAPPING its jaws just short of her face. 
She hurls herself over the seat and into the front as the animal penetrates even further into the car, but its torso will not fit through the window opening.  It pulls away. 
In the front seat, Sarah gets some very bad news. 
There's no windshield. 
The raptor springs up onto the hood, its claws CLATTERING on the sheet metal, and tosses its body through the opening -- 
-- just as Sarah hurls herself out the door.  While the raptor struggles to right itself in the front seat, Sarah runs to the nearest building, ducks inside, and SLAMS the heavy wooden door. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT 
MALCOLM races between the idled gas pumps and into the gas station building, closing the door behind him.  A moment later, a raptor bounds after him, SLAMMING into the door. 
Meeting resistance, it bounces off, notices the plate glass window next to the door, and pounces at that.  The window SHATTERS and the raptor clings to the ledge, staring inside, its tail hanging out. 
Just as it gets inside, Malcolm opens the door and comes back out, keeping the place of wall between them.  He pulls the Lindstradt rifle off his back and tries to take aim -- 
-- but the raptor whirls and springs, forcing him back inside, through the door again. 
Willing to play along, the raptor turns and jumps through the window again. 
INT. GAS STATION - NIGHT 
Balancing on the window frame, the raptor HISSES and crouches, ready to spring at Malcolm. 
Malcolm takes cover behind the door, which is hanging open between them.  He raises the rifle. 
Th raptor springs into the door, BLASTING it off its hinges, knocking Malcolm right through a window behind him. 
But the door SMACKS up against the wall, covering the window, preventing the raptor from following Malcolm out that way. 
For the moment. 
EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT 
Malcolm flies through the window and CRUNCHES to the ground. He GROANS  in agony and rolls off his bad leg, which is twisted unnaturally beneath him, and claws in the mud for the gun. 
ROUGH HANDS reach down, grab him by the shirt, and haul him to his feet.  It's NICK.  He drags Malcolm away, but in the commotion Nick's duffel slips off his shoulder and lands in the street, spilling some of the precious videotapes. 
Malcolm scoops them up. 
NICK I think she's with Sarah! 
MALCOLM DAMN IT, BE SURE!! 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT 
KELLY remains huddled under the fallen shed, trembling with fear.  She holds her breath and freezes, as just outside, only two feet from where she's hiding -- 
-- a RAPTOR'S FEET pick their way past her, down the middle of the street. 
Kelly closes her eyes and suppresses a scream. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT 
NICK and MALCOLM burst onto the roof of the now-burning hotel and SLAM the door behind them.  The helicopter is now only three rooftops away.  They turn and head for it, Nick in the lead, but there's an eight foot gap between the buildings. 
MALCOLM It's too wide! 
Nick looks around, desperate.  A fallen power pole leans against the building they're standing on, its lines gone slack. 
NICK Help me push this! 
Malcolm understands.  He and Nick throw a shoulder into the pole and give it a mighty push, tipping it over in the other direction.  One good hard shove and it falls to the far building, THUDDING against it solidly. 
Its power lines are not taut, a lifeline from this rooftop to the next.  Nick grabs hold and starts to pull himself across the gap, hand over hand. 
Behind them, the door of the building SPLINTERS and CRASHES open as a raptor throws all its weight into it.  Malcolm leaps onto the power line without hesitation and starts pulling himself across. 
But even with the door wide open, the raptor on the other side hesitates.  It SNARLS and backs away, refusing to come out onto the roof. 
ON THE OTHER ROOFTOP, 
Malcolm lands next to Nick on the second rooftop.  They look back at the frightened animal, which takes tow steps out onto the roof, SNARLS, and backs into the doorway again. 
NICK It's afraid to come onto the roof! 
Malcolm looks around, at the rooftop.  Strange bits of scrap and debris seem to have been arranged there, in an odd, concentric pattern. 
MALCOLM Something's wrong. 
NICK Look!  Sarah! 
He points to the roof of the kilm house, in the distance. Malcolm turns, and sees SARAH crawling across the tile.  His face turns white. 
MALCOLM SHE'S ALONE!! 
CUT TO: 
EXT. KILM HOUSE ROOF - NIGHT 
SARAH has problems.  Still on top of the kilm house, she reaches the edge and pushes off the roof, leaping to the roof of the next building. 
She lands at the peak of the intersection of the two sides of sloping roof.  As she pulls herself up -- 
-- a RAPTOR appears on the rooftop behind her.  In full stride, it leaps, sails over her, and lands on the roof ahead of her. 
Sarah swings to her left and starts to crawl down the slope, away from the raptor.  Suddenly the roof board under her SPRINTERS and CRACKS under her weight.  The whole section pulls up and starts to slide off the roof.  Sarah, clinging to it, rides the roof  planks down, away from the raptor. 
She looks over her shoulder, down -- 
-- and sees ANOTHER RAPTOR, waiting for her on the roof of the building below. 
Sarah quickly rolls off the sliding section of roof, which keeps sliding, falling.  The raptor below jumps up, just in time to get WHACKED in the head by the falling roof section. 
Sarah tries to cling to the Spanish tile roof, fingers and nails slipping on the slick ceramic surface.  She slides all the way to the edge, grabs hold of the gutter, and dangles there, suspended above one raptor and trapped below another. 
The raptor above works its way down.  The one below leaps up, at her dangling legs.  She has left them in time with its jumps, to avoid losing her feet.  This can't go on for long. 
Desperate, she pulls one of the Spanish tiles up from the roof and hurls it at the raptor below.  It hits the animal in the head, for all the good that does. 
But Sarah keeps on, pulling and throwing more tiles.  She edges to the right, toward a fresh supply. 
The raptor above edges even closer, claws CLICKING on the slick roof. 
Something interesting is happening.  As Sarah pulls the loose tiles free, the ones above slide down, to take their place. Sarah sees this and pulls more free, knocking them out of the way as fast as she can. 
Suddenly an avalanche of loose tiles breaks loose and the footing underneath the raptor above disintegrates.  The animal's feet flail and grasp, it slides towards the edge amid the tumbling tiles. 
Sarah, seeing it coming, swings in close to the building, hugging it as closely as she can.  The raptor falls off the roof, right past her -- 
-- and CRUNCHES into the raptor below.  Both animals SNARK and attack one another. 
Now Sarah, her grip exhausted, falls too, landing right next to the enraged animals.  They fight and roll, RIGHT OVER HER. She GROANS and hugs the wood below her, the raptors continue to thrash and bite, they roll back, toward her, she rolls out of their way -- 
-- and plunges through a hole in the roof. 
INT. LAB - NIGHT 
Sarah falls through the roof of a deserted laboratory and lands in the tray of an old-fashioned hanging fluorescent light fixture. 
One end of the fixture's support SNAPS, it drops at a 45 degree angle, Sarah slides out the other end and CRASHES through a window. 
She lands hard and awkwardly, CLANGING into the spidery scaffolding next to Malcolm as the raptor SMASHES to the ground below.  But Kelly manages to hold on. 
KELLY GET UP! 
She grabs hold of Malcolm and pulls him to his feet. 
ON THE ROOF, 
Kelly and Malcolm appear over the roofline.  The PILOTS SHOUTS from inside. 
PILOT LET'S GO LET'S GO LET'S GO!! 
Malcolm and Kelly scramble toward the helicopter.  But at the opposite side of the roof, a RAPTOR claws its way over the edge as well. 
Malcolm sees it and they lunge for the helicopter, but the animal is far faster.  It's only ten feet away, then five, they're surely done for this time, when -- 
-- KA-BOOM! 
There comes the loudest single gunshot anyone has ever heard, and the raptor flies off its feet and lands ten feet across the roof, dead.  They look up, to the source of the gunshot. 
It's ROLAND, standing at the edge of the roof, holding his smoking .600 Nitro Express. 
But there's no time for celebration, as suddenly the helicopter's left skid CRACKS right through the surface of the roof. 
PILOT HURRY!  THE ROOF'S GIVING WAY! 
The skid dips even further, ripping right through the thatch-and-wood construction.  Kelly, who had one foot in the helicopter, loses her balance -- 
-- as the roof caves in beneath her. 
MALCOLM KELLY! 
She falls,  SCREAMING, through the hole and down, into the building below. 
ONE FLOOR DOWN, 
Kelly lands with a CRUNCH on the floor immediately below the roof, about nine feet down.  But her landing is cushioned by an inordinate amount of straw and leaves that have been arranged there.  She lifts one hand, and a yellowy, viscous substance drips off of it. 
It's yolk.  She looks around, noticing half a dozen large, oblong shapes.  Eggs. 
Above her, Malcolm is scrambling, climbing down to her through the wreckage of the CREAKING, crumbling roof. 
MALCOLM Kelly!  I'm coming! 
Kelly climbs to her knees, but behind her, a large, dark shape is moving.  Rising.  Unfolding, in a way. 
IT'S A PTERANODON. 
Yep, flying dinosaur.  The enormous animal raises its head, a brilliant blue crest extending two feet behind its long, saber-like beak.  It SQUAWKS at Kelly in fury.  She can only stare, spellbound. 
Malcolm reaches her and grabs hold as the angry animal unfurls its massive twenty-two foot wingspread. 
ON THE ROOF, 
the helicopter lurches as it sinks further into the crumbling roof, and now the skids are getting tangled in the debris. Roland races over to the hole, climbs in a few feet, and starts kicking at it, making it larger. 
ROLAND Give me a ladder! 
IN THE PTERANODON NEST, 
Malcolm tries to haul Kelly back up the way he came, but a SECOND PTERANODON now appears from the depths of the building, SCREECHING in fury at these invaders who have landed in the middle of their clutch of eggs. 
An emergency rescue ladder drops through the hole in the roof. Malcolm grabs Kelly with one arm and the ladder with the other and they start to climb out of the nest. 
ON THE ROOF, 
Malcolm and Kelly climb the ladder and are pulled into the belly of the chopper just as two enormous beaks break through the surface of the roof around them. 
The pteranodons are emerging. 
MALCOLM GO GO GO GO GOG GO! 
The helicopter lurches up a few feet, but it yanked to an abrupt stop.  The engines WHINE, the chopper just hovers there. 
PILOT We're snagged on something! 
They loos down. BOTH PTERANODONS have come out through the hole in the roof and are clinging to the skids of the helicopter.  They flap their gigantic wings in unison, and drag the helicopter off, into the air, away from the nest -- 
-- and let go.  Freed, the helicopter gains altitude quickly. 
IN THE HELICOPTER, 
the PILOTS gape as the pteranodons coast along, right next to the helicopter. 
PILOT Hang on!  If I tip it hard, I can cut 'em with the rotors! 
SARAH NO!  Don't!  They're not attacking! 
They look out the windows, where, indeed, the magnificent animals are merely accompanying them, flying escort as the chopper gains altitude. 
SARAH (cont'd) They're protecting their nest. That's all.  That's all they're doing. 
Kelly, completely drained, sits between Sarah and Malcolm, each of whom has a protective arm around her.  She sags against her father's chest, nothing left. 
He holds her tight and WHISPERS in her ear. 
