"Kafka", by Lem Dobbs 
KAFKA 
by 
Lem Dobbs 
PRAGUE - MORNING 
The Old Town is quiet.  It's very early in the twisted streets of this ancient ghetto.  Dark corners casting a medieval spell over a modern century oblivious to their romance and mystery. 
The River is the dividing line.  Elegant gardens on the opposite bank embracing the monotonous solemnity of the New Town, tower steeples silhouetted against the sombre sky. 
An empty motor bus rattles along a deserted street. 
A Gothic bridge links the two halves of the strange city. Its half-moon arches becoming circles as they meet their reflections in the water.  Thin mist swirls over the cobblestones above. 
A few boats in the water.  Fishermen casting their lines in silence.  One or two lights now burning in buildings beyond. 
In the Old Town Square the great clock on the cathedral strikes six. 
CUT: 
A MAN'S FACE 
His eyes filled with terror, beads of sweat crawling on his brow. 
He stands in the middle of a murky courtyard, perfectly still.  Waiting.  Watching. 
The balconies overlooking on successive floors, looming all around him, are empty.  All is quiet. 
The man's name is EDUARD.  He dares not move for fear of missing a single sound.  And then he hears it.  A small noise of movement nearby.  He runs. 
TINY ALLEYWAY 
He runs alone in the dim light of the deserted morning. 
CROOKED PASSAGEWAY 
Running for his life. 
NARROW LANE 
Running on sheer pumping fear, long after the verge of collapse. 
BLACK TUNNEL 
Coming out into the light, but by no means out of danger, he allows himself a brief pause, gasping for air, just for a moment looking back into the gloom, starting to retreat again even as he does, then turning running ... 
WINDING STREET 
He runs on, past boarded-up houses and shuttered inns, strange relics of the Middle Ages casting frightening shadows. 
AROUND A CORNER 
Eduard appears suddenly, quickly flattens himself back against the large notice board that covers the wall here, layers of expressionistic theatre and film posters pasted on it. 
He breathes painfully in short bursts, as silently as he can.  He watches the corner he's just come from, the ornate archway through which any pursuer must emerge. 
Nothing there.  But then a shadow moves. 
Eduard's shoulders tense.  His eyes widen.  He holds his breath. 
The shadow ... spreading ... 
Eduard edges away ever so slowly, keeping his unblinking gaze on the archway, backing off, one arm brushing the notice board as he feels his way along it, macabre images on the posters, some torn and incomplete, revealing other fragments behind, Eduard's eyes staring constant, no noise here at all and -- 
A HAND!  clamps over his face from behind.  All of a sudden and out of absolutely nowhere and not a thing he can do about it. 
LODGING HOUSE - MIDDAY 
Kafka comes up the stairs to the top landing.  He knocks on a door.  Waits.  Knocks again.  Leans a little closer to listen for a moment, then goes away back down the stairs. 
GROUND FLOOR 
Kafka comes through the door that divides the stairs from the hall, goes to knock on the door of the first apartment down here. 
BIZARRE VOICE Yes? 
KAFKA I'm sorry to disturb you -- I wonder if you know where my friend Eduard is? 
BIZARRE VOICE I can't hear you! -- You'd better come in. 
APARTMENT 
Kafka comes in tentatively, seeing the CONCIERGE in a far corner of the cluttered room, in bed, covers tucked right up to her chin. 
KAFKA -- I didn't want to bother you. 
CONCIERGE Well, you have.  What do you want? 
KAFKA (pointing upstairs) My friend Eduard, I wonder if you've seen him?  He hasn't been in to work, I thought he might be ill. 
CUT: 
STAIRS 
The Concierge trudges up to the top floor, Kafka following guiltily. 
KAFKA You didn't have to get out of bed -- I could have taken the key. 
CONCIERGE Yes, I'm sure you could. 
She treats him like dirt. 
EDUARD'S ROOM 
The door unlocks and the two of them come in.  Kafka goes to open the window curtain.  He turns around to see the Concierge already poking about in drawers. 
He ignores her and looks around the room on his own.  Eduard isn't here.  Nothing else seems out of place.  He wonders instead how he can dissuade the Concierge from her unbelievable snooping. 
KAFKA Well, he's not here. 
The Concierge takes a tie from one of the drawers and models it over her own ample chest. 
KAFKA Do you think you ought to do that? 
She looks at him indignantly. 
CONCIERGE The manners of a tramp!  It's my house, isn't it? 
CUT: 
OFFICES - AFTERNOON 
Kafka is in another section of the building, finding his way through a department he's vaguely unfamiliar with.  He searches out a particular person -- a strikingly beautiful woman with flaming hair and wild eyes. 
KAFKA Miss Rossmann? 
GABRIELA looks around from a file cabinet. 
KAFKA I'm Kafka -- I work upstairs in Accident -- 
GABRIELA I know. 
KAFKA You're a friend of Eduard Raban's. 
GABRIELA Why would you suppose so? 
ANNA -- I'm hoping to live in the Old Quarter. 
KAFKA Even the so-called New Town isn't so new.  Only the people.  People of the future living in buildings of the past. (abruptly) Has anyone seen Eduard? 
MARGARETE Who? 
My friend Eduard from the office -- I've brought him here lots of times -- you used to marvel at his travel stories. 
JULIUS Oh, him. 
KAFKA What d'you mean, oh him?  He's a perfectly nice person, he's never missed a day before. 
ERNST Perhaps he's taken up with those traveling players you two were so fond of. 
KAFKA No, it's me who always wanted to run away with them -- except that that life would be far too hectic for me.  I'm worried about him, no one's seen him. 
STELLA Haven't you ever called in sick and gone roaming about, free of responsibility to anyone, if only for a day? 
KAFKA When you work for a medical firm you can't call in sick.  They know malingerers like a dog knows fleas. 
ANNA You work in the insurance department? 
KAFKA You have been hearing the sordid side then. 
MARGARETE Be pleased -- you constantly inspire people to take an interest in your life. 
ANNA I should think it's very interesting work. 
Kafka shrugs shyly. 
KAFKA My father always said I had no ambition. 
CUT: 
NEAR THE FRONT DOOR - LATER 
Smoke heavier in the air, the coffee house more crowded with strange groups of characters.  Kafka and his friends preparing to leave. 
STELLA The cabaret will be packed this time of night -- we'll never get in. 
JULIUS Well, it has to be the cabaret because there's nowhere else to go. 
MARGARET Home, I think. 
JULIUS Home? 
MARGARET (head on Ernst's shoulder) You know I can't stay up late. 
VOICE Home is the last resort -- 
BIZZLEBEK 
The owner of the voice.  A man sitting at the bar nearby, turning on his stool to face them.  A dissipated dandy of a man. 
ERNST (introducing him) -- Do you know Bizzlebek -- the gravedigger? 
BIZZLEBEK Stonecutter, if you please. 
MARGARETE Sculptor, if only he'd admit it. 
BIZZLEBEK No one should admit being an artist unless they're paid for it.  If you go to the cabaret mention my name -- they'll find a table for you. 
Turning round again. 
ERNST Bizzlebek has ways and means denied lesser mortals.  It comes from working in the cemetery all day -- he's able to transcent the physical world. 
Bizz1ebek turns round again, with a bored sign. 
BIZZLEBEK No -- it only makes me view people dispassionately as so many ... slabs. 
INSPECTOR His landlady knew of no other friends to refer us to. 
KAFKA I don't think he really had any. He had no family either. 
INSPECTOR We know that. 
Pause. 
KAFKA He wasn't a lonely man, though. 
INSPECTOR What makes you think so? 
KAFKA ... Just a perception. 
CUT: 
HALLWAY 
Kafka comes out of a door that closes behind him.  He stands and waits.  At a high desk a POLICEMAN is reading a newspaper.  Without even looking up from it he extends his arm and pushes Kafka slightly to one side so he's no longer blocking the light. 
Two other MEN are here waiting, sitting on a bench, sharing a private joke.  Kafka glances down at himself, wondering if his appearance could in any way inspire ridicule. 
The door opens again and the Inspector is back. 
INSPECTOR I don't usually involve myself with you people in the Old Quarter -- but the River runs its own course. It won't be the last time it deposits its unwanted debris on my doorstep. 
Pause. 
KAFKA Probably not. 
INSPECTOR Anyway, I'd like you to reflect that in me you have -- I won't say a friend, because we're complete fencers, of course -- from distinctly incompatible social classes -- but to some extent, shall we say, an interested third party. 
KAFKA I'll bear that in mind. 
INSPECTOR (hands Kafka his card) -- Should you happen upon anything that might be relevant. 
He nods curtly at Kafka, and shuts his door. 
THE TROLLEY 
With Eduard's sheet-covered form on it, coming down the hall, the SQUEAKING WHEELS of the thing loud on the wooden floor. 
KAFKA 
The noise causes him to turn around.  He watches the trolley as it's pushed past. 
CUT: 
AN OFFICE TROLLEY - DAY 
Similarly coffin-like, loaded with files. 
KAFKA 
Edges out of the way to let it by, feeling as though it has been made for him, is waiting for him. 
He walks on to the Chief Clerk's office. 
CHIEF CLERK'S OFFICE 
Kafka comes in. 
KAFKA You wanted to see me, sir. 
CHIEF CLERK (indicates a chair) Sit down, Kafka. 
Kafka does.  And the Chief Clerk stands up.  He paces up and down a bit, making Kafka awfully nervous before he finally clears his throat and starts to get to the point. 
CHIEF CLERK You've been with the firm for nearly nine years.  You've done your work diligently, there are no complaints on that score.  But there's more to the job than the work -- there are other people to consider -- and frankly, Kafka, we eel your social situation could bear improving. 
BURGEL It's what I'm paid to do. 
GABRIELA You're detestable. 
BURGEL And you're late! 
Suddenly, in a terrific release of pent-up emotion, she slaps him hard across the cheek, the first of what would be a flurry of blows if not for the fact that the unexpected force of it throws Burgel reeling backwards before she can deliver any more.  Instead she rushes away, very upset. 
KAFKA 
As startled as the rest of the office by the incident. 
Burgel recovers, straightening up in shock and embarrassment.  He immediately resolves to march directly to the office of the Chief Clerk. 
Seeing him coming, Kafka quickly starts away. 
CUT: 
THE ASSISTANTS - DAY 
OSKAR and LUDWIG.  They look almost the same.  At first glance almost identical.  It's only a closer inspection that shows them to be imperfect twins.  Dressed in matching suits. 
One is sitting on Kafka's new desk, the other in Kafka's new chair.  They're rummaging about in his papers, and whenever one selects a particular document for closer scrutiny, the other promptly snatches it out of his hand. 
KAFKA 
Coming this way, has paused, having spotted the weird duo. 
THE ASSISTANTS 
Continue with their mischief until one of them notices Kafka coming and nudges the other so strongly he almost falls over.  They're both standing at attention, looking guilty, by the time Kafka arrives. 
KAFKA My assistants, I presume. 
ASSISTANTS Yes -- that's us. 
Kafka smiles at them, half in friendliness, half in amusement at their quirky appearance. 
KAFKA (offers his hand) I'm Kafka. 
Oskar responds first, but Ludwig knocks his hand out of the way to get there first. 
LUDWIG (shaking hands) Ludwig. 
OSKAR (now it's his turn) Oskar. 
KAFKA You look like brothers. 
ASSISTANTS Yes -- we do. 
KAFKA Have you worked here long? 
ASSISTANTS No, no, no -- quite a long time, yes. 
Kafka doesn't quite know what to make of these two, but they seem pleasant enough fellows and they're looking at him with such wide-eyed innocence he doesn't know what more to say to them.  So he turns to look around the new area he's been assigned -- a burrow all to himself now -- even a personal clothes peg on the wall for his coat. 
The Assistants make stupid faces at each other behind his back, but look serious again when he turns around. 
KAFKA Well, we'd better move things from my old desk. 
ASSISTANTS 
Look at each other with identical frowns, then back at Kafka.  Oskar nods, as if to say "oh, all right, if we must."  And Ludwig grins. 
CUT: 
KAFKA'S NEW OFFICE - DAY 
Kafka types up forms.  He hears some noise and glances over his shoulder to see how the Assistants are getting on -- they're sharing another desk, facing each other, and seem to be working quietly, though with pouting expressions. 
Someone else has paused at the embankment wall further away to stare at the roiling water.  He's too far away to see clearly.  Probably nothing sinister about him at all. Still ... 
GABRIELA 
Turns back to Kafka. 
GABRIELA Are you free tonight? 
KAFKA Tonight? 
GABRIELA There are some people I'd like you to meet.  Can you come to the Musil district at eight o'clock? 
KAFKA ... All right. 
Her eyes lock on his for a moment.  She's beautiful.  He's fearful. 
GABRIELA You almost married recently, didn't you? 
KAFKA Last year.  I -- it was broken off. 
GABRIELA Eduard wanted to marry me. 
KAFKA And you ...? 
GABRIELA I'm suspicious of men who want to marry.  I believe they think it's the only thing that will make them equal to their fathers. 
THE SHADOW ON THE WALL BENEATH 
Disappears, the ominous black mass flowing off the large flat surface as abruptly as it arrived.  While up there on the terrace we see Gabriela walk away from Kafka. 
KAFKA 
Stays where he is a moment, watching her.  He may have found his ideal woman. 
KAFKA (then follows behind her) -- I don't know the Musil district. 
GABRIELA (without turning) You won't have any trouble finding it. 
CUT: 
FAT MEN - NIGHT 
Sit laughing, jowls gyrating, around a table filled with an abnormal amount of food.  One of them stops laughing then, and the others follow suit, one after the other in turn, until they're all silent, looking at the same thing. 
We're in a fancy restaurant, and the other customers have also turned away from their dinners for the moment to stare at the Man in Black who stands before the Fat Men. 
The man wears a black mask as well.  He presents the Fat Men with a covered tray.  They look at it, then back at him -- but he's walked away.  They look at the tray again -- and one of them lifts the cover.  Underneath lies the classic black bowling ball -- with a fuse burning at the top.  The Fat Men all try to stand up at once but -- 
BOOM!  Their booth explodes with them in it. 
At the doorway, holding a revolver loosely in one hand to discourage heroes, the Man in Black turns calmly to face the stunned restaurant. 
MAN IN BLACK (hoarse voice) Long live anarchy! 
He leaves.  Fire in his wake. 
CUT: 
THE OLD TOWN - NIGHT 
Kafka walks the crooked streets -- in the direction of the plume of smoke and illumination coming from the burning restaurant. 
In the dark distance behind him there seems to be a person following him. 
NOISY BEER SHOP 
Neighborhood denizens have come out, hearing all the excitement not far away.  Kafka walks past.  He looks behind him, but the following figure has gone. 
TWISTED LITTLE STREET 
GABRIELA He was summoned to help correct a minor discrepancy of some sort in the Medical Records Division. Apparently one of his claims was relevant. 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST -- Merely in the interests of order, you understand.  The officials at the Castle like to cover their tracks. 
GABRIELA He was never seen alive again. 
KAFKA And you still maintain -- what? That he was murdered. 
GABRIELA He was murdered. 
A skylight casts moonglow over the proceedings. 
BEARDED ANARCHIST As you can imagine, a pass into the Castle -- hardly ever granted -- was an opportunity we couldn't ignore. 
YOUTHFUL ANARCHIST The Castle represents every anachronism that needs to be destroyed if progress is to be made. 
BEARDED ANARCHIST As you know, it's not the most accessible location.  Far from being depressed, Eduard was particularly excited when he brought us the news of this chance invitation. He set off that evening carrying one of our custom-made briefcases instead of his own. 
GABRIELA (gauging Kafka's reaction) You're shocked at the thought of Eduard tossing a bomb through a window. 
KAFKA I have no right to be, I know.  My experience with real life  is practically nil. 
GABRIELA When you only see someone sitting at a desk all day, it's liable to create a false impression. 
KAFKA People must think the same of me -- a quiet, dependable person. 
BEARDED ANARCHIST You don't have to accept everything as true, my friend.  You need only accept it as necessary. 
GABRIELA As the bomb never went off, we can only assume he was caught with it -- and summarily executed. 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST -- Merely in the interests of order. 
BEARDED ANARCHIST The formality of a trial would be too costly for them.  They're beginning to understand that it's the ensuing news of our actions that incites support. 
KAFKA Propaganda of the dead? 
YOUTHFUL ANARCHIST The Castle will deny he was there any longer than his business required. They're just file clerks up there.  No doubt he was handed over to the police with the utmost discretion. 
BEARDED ANARCHIST In any event, we've felt no repercussions as yet.  Eduard must not have talked.  You're the one they contacted. 
KAFKA So that's who my foes are -- policemen and file clerks.  Law and order, you might say. 
The Solemn Anarchist looks up from his matchbox. 
GABRIELA You think what we're doing is so wrong?  And what are you doing? Pursuing goodness?  For what?  To answer to some supreme tribunal? 
KAFKA My only concern is the human tribunal.  Isn't it yours? 
GABRIELA Yes -- which is why "quiet, dependable people" have to take charge of their own lives. 
KAFKA At the cost of others?  You accuse people of murder without trial -- apparently without irony.  Did you go to the Castle with Eduard? (apparently not) Then you have no idea what really might have happened that night at all -- even before or after he got there. 
He stands to leave again. 
GABRIELA Your human tribunal will betray you.  Just as its members will be betrayed when they find no supreme one 
Kafka starts walking away. 
GABRIELA Join us, Kafka. 
Kafka keeps on going, the anarchists growing smaller as they're left behind in their far corner of the long attic. 
GABRIELA It's sheer folly for anyone to try to pull through alone. 
CUT: 
MANIACAL LAUGHTER - BEFORE DAWN 
Seeming to emanate from pitch blackness -- but then suddenly, fast, out of a tunnel under a bridge come running three terrified VAGRANTS, roused from slumber and scared out their wits by the ghastly, crazed CACKLING chasing after them, ECHOING under the arches. 
GABRIELA'S SECTION 
Kafka working his way toward Gabriela's desk -- but he stops before he gets to it, a familiar shiver running through him. 
THE DESK 
Empty.  The chair pushed squarely under it.  The typewriter covered. 
KAFKA 
Stares at it -- then at the ermine Mr. Burgel who has once again popped up out of nowhere. 
BURGEL Are you looking for Gabriela Rossmann? 
KAFKA Yes. 
Burgel bows sarcastically to hand Kafka an envelope.  Then chuckles spitefully, obviously knowing something Kafka does not.  He walks off, leaving Kafka uneasy. 
CUT: 
EDUARD'S LODGING HOUSE - DAY 
Kafka bounds up the stairs. 
EDUARD'S LANDING 
The door to his room is open.  Kafka goes in. 
EDUARD'S ROOM 
Kafka comes in.  Gabriela is here, gathering up Eduard's belongings from drawers. 
GABRIELA (hardly glancing at him) I'm collecting Eduard's things. If there's anything you want, take it or I'll give it to charity. 
KAFKA (taking her note from his pocket) Burgel gave me this -- what does it mean? 
GABRIELA (now looks up) Burgel! -- I didn't leave it with him. 
KAFKA (going closer) Why were you given notice? 
GABRIELA They're not obliged to tell. 
KAFKA It couldn't be for that incident with Burgel the other day. 
GABRIELA Of course it could -- Burgel's been trying to get me thrown out as long as I can remember.  He could've killed Eduard. 
KAFKA You don't believe that. 
GABRIELA I wouldn't put it past him. 
She's stuffed the last of the clothes into a small bag, goes to take the few other possessions from shelves and elsewhere. 
Kafka notices that he's standing by a dumbwaiter.   For lack of anything better to do he pulls the rope to bring it up. It's filled with more clothes.  Gabriela comes over with her bag, holding it out for him as Kafka puts the clothes in -- but not as many clothes as they thought.  Behind the bundle, hidden at the back, is a briefcase. 
Gabriela recognizes it.  Kafka sees her surprised reaction. He removes the case and carefully flips the latches.  Inside, a complex mechanism, wires connected to a clock -- and a clump of dynamite. 
Kafka just looks at it sadly.  He closes the case. 
KAFKA It seems I knew Eduard a little bit, after all. 
GROUND FLOOR OF BUILDING 
The ratty old concierge peeks up the stairs inquisitively. In the doorway of his room, a LODGER clips his fingernails at a little folding table, neatly lining them up.  The concierge turns and notices. 
CONCIERGE Lodgers!  Not one of them thinks to spare me such spectacles! 
She slams the door on him then returns to her own apartment, slamming that door too.  The hallway is empty now. 
EDUARD'S ROOM 
GABRIELA 
Rushing down the stairs in anger, tearing open the door at the middle landing and slamming that one too once past it. 
KAFKA 
Following her down. 
GABRIELA 
Coming down the final flight of stairs, disappearing through the door at the bottom, slamming that one as well. 
KAFKA 
Almost caught up with her, coming down to the last door. 
GROUND FLOOR HALLWAY 
Kafka comes through the door from the stairs, out of breath, and stops.  He's too late.  The hallway is empty.  The front door at the end of it is shut.  He makes a face and a moment later starts to go back up.  Then stops again.  Turns.  Looks back at the front door.  ... The one he didn't hear slam. 
OUTSIDE 
The front door opens and Kafka steps out.  He stands on  the stoop.  He looks up the street one way.  Deserted.  He looks down the street the other way.  Deserted. 
CUT: 
INSIDE - DAY 
Kafka leads the police Inspector back along the lodging house hallway.  The two subordinate policemen follow behind. 
INSPECTOR You said she was extremely upset. People who are extremely upset -- Kafka -- are given to disappearing in a hurry.  They go and calm down for a day or so and then they come back. 
They've come to the door to the stairs now. 
KAFKA But that's just my point -- she was more than upset, she was livid. She slammed every door on her way downstairs -- except that one. (points at front door) I was just behind her and I didn't even hear that one shut -- not at all. 
INSPECTOR That's not what I call conclusive evidence of an abduction. 
KAFKA If someone was waiting here in the hallway to spirit her away, wouldn't they have shut the door as quietly as possible? 
The Inspector stares at him.  The two other policemen roll their eyes at each other. 
CUT: 
EDUARD'S ROOM 
Kafka keeps his eye on the two policemen as they poke around, one of them getting close to the dumbwaiter. 
INSPECTOR Why would someone want to kidnap this woman -- the name is Rossmann? 
He says it rather derisively, separating the syllables of the name. 
KAFKA You told me to contact you if anything relevant came up -- Gabriela is relevant.  When I spoke to you before I didn't know she'd been seeing Eduard. 
INSPECTOR That's been noted.  But where does it lead us?  Unless you have something more to add. 
KAFKA She's missing.  I went to her house and she hadn't returned there. 
The policeman at the dumbwaiter peers down the shaft -- but then moves on. 
INSPECTOR She lost her job today.  Just between you and me, I'd probably go away and brood a bit myself. 
He signals his men, time for them to go. 
STAIRWAY 
The two Policemen lead the way back down, the Inspector behind them, Kafka remaining on the top landing. 
KAFKA (manages to blurt out) Maybe it's true then what she said. 
CHARLIE CHAPLIN - EVENING 
Being chased around a table by a big bearded man in flickering black-and-white. 
AN AUDIENCE 
Watching, laughing.  A great sea of grinning teeth and teary eyes. 
Except one.  Kafka sits grimly alone near the back.  But suddenly he's not alone -- the Bearded Anarchist has sat down in front of him -- and now turns round, startlingly. 
BEARDED ANARCHIST We have another theory. 
And the Pockmarked Anarchist is suddenly sitting beside him. 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST We may have attached too little importance to the reason Eduard was summoned to the Castle to begin with. 
And the Youthful Anarchist is behind him, thrusting his head suddenly forward. 
YOUTHFUL ANARCHIST -- To correct a small discrepancy, you may recall. 
The Solemn Anarchist is on Kafka's other side -- but he just watches the movie. 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST -- Ah, but what if it wasn't? 
BEARDED ANARCHIST -- Small. 
YOUTHFUL ANARCHIST -- What if it was a large discrepancy? 
Kafka's head keeps turning around as they speak. 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST Yours is a very powerful and important firm -- it has a lot at stake. 
BEARDED ANARCHIST Perhaps Eduard was closer than he knew to discovering it and so had to be silenced. 
YOUTHFUL ANARCHIST -- Or he was even more an innocent victim than that -- he was chosen to bear the blame if the crime was uncovered by anyone else. 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST -- The crime so scandalous that the poor young clerk committed suicide rather than own up to it. 
KAFKA That's mad. 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST -- Oh, yes, it's mad. 
The Solemn Anarchist suddenly laughs -- probably at Charlie Chaplin. 
KAFKA -- You said so yourself the firm is large and powerful.  If the discrepancy really was something big, Eduard's responsibility would still have to be small.  No poor young clerk could find himself in such a fix. 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST (sarcastic grunt) When a scapegoat is needed, my friend ... 
BEARDED ANARCHIST We have to know what he was working on at the time of his death. 
KAFKA He worked on routine claims.  His visit to the Castle was probably as minor a mission as he said it was. 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST Why are you so aggressively unimaginative?  Eduard is no longer the only casualty. 
KAFKA Then why haven't I been -- 
YOUTHFUL ANARCHIST -- Kidnapped or murdered?  Because your connection with Eduard was obvious and above board -- not as easily misconstrued. 
BEARDED ANARCHIST -- Not secretive, therefore not suspicious. 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST -- Gabriela, on the other hand, had made an enemy of this man Burgel. 
KAFKA (head turning, exasperated) Oh, Burgel!  Gabriela was having an affair with Eduard.  They were both members of this group.  If any crime's been discovered and people are paying for it, I'd look to yourselves! 
POCKMARKED ANARCHIST The loyal civil servant.  I suppose you'll deny that shortchanging the workers to whom compensation is due is standard company policy. 
BEARDED ANARCHIST It wouldn't surprise us if the discrepancy was between medicines sent and medicines received. 
YOUTHFUL ANARCHIST -- People die for such discrepancies. 
The Chief Clerk watches him as he starts to leave. 
CHIEF CLERK Kafka. 
Kafka reluctantly turns. 
CHIEF CLERK You're too sensitive.  Let your friend rest in peace. (returning to paperwork) I've known suicides.  Such a song- and-dance about nothing. 
Kafka nods once. 
KAFKA Yes, sir. 
The Chief Clerk looks at him with seemingly genuine misguided concern. 
CHIEF CLERK Give it up. 
He goes back to his paperwork.  Kafka leaves. 
OUTSIDE CHIEF CLERK'S OFFICE 
Kafka shuts the door behind him, breathes a sigh of relief. 
CUT: 
THE KEEPER OF THE FILES - DAY 
Looking very annoyed, leading Kafka back through the stacks. 
KEEPER If it was Accounts you wanted why did you ask for Employees? 
KAFKA Orlac is an account? 
KEEPER It's a factory in the northern mountains.  One of our best customers. (as they disappear around a corner) Without a proper request I'm not obliged to do this, you understand -- but I'll make an exception on this one occasion. 
ANOTHER ROW 
Kafka glances nervously around as shelves CREAK threateningly under the weight of documents.  Up on a ladder, the Keeper of the Files finds the Orlac folder. 
KEEPER At least the account is current even if the employee isn't. 
He pulls it out -- with great difficulty.  The Orlac file is very, very thick.  Kafka prepares himself to catch it, but the Keeper of the Files manages to hand it down to him without serious injury.  Still, it's quite cumbersome and heavier than Kafka expects. 
KEEPER (coming down ladder) That place has so many accidents, it's a good thing the type of peasants who live up there don't seem to have any trouble propagating their race. 
Kafka winces at that slur but says nothing about it. 
KAFKA (leafing through pages) All these in the last year? 
KEEPER You must have read about it in the papers -- there was a terrible cave-in.  It wouldn't have been so bad, but even the Medical Officer for the district was killed! 
KAFKA I did read that.  They gave him a posthumous medal. 
KEEPER (nods) Dr. Murnau was the bravest of men. He spent an entire career in those backwaters with no regard for personal gain.  A great loss. 
KAFKA (a particular document) This is the cross-reference of clerks who've worked on Orlac claims? 
KEEPER (nods) Is your friend's name among them? (Kafka shakes his head) Then he only worked on the one case. (taking file back again) Your Chief will send me the final summation when he's finished with it. 
KAFKA Once a file's been sent to the Caste, is it possible to recall it for review? 
KEEPER (going back up ladder) Of course not.  Only by a Director of the firm.  Who'd want to let in all kinds of riff-raff off the streets? 
KAFKA What good are records if they're not open for public inspection? 
KEEPER (stuffing file back in place) These laws have been with us for centuries -- how can you doubt them? 
KAFKA What if I petitioned one of the Directors? 
KEEPER (coming back down) You do not summon them -- they summon you -- and this, of course, hardly ever happens, if at all. The Directors are an eccentric lot and by nature cautious. 
KAFKA (to Assistants again) All right, you might as well go home -- go on. 
The Assistants do as they're told, Oskar returning to his desk to clear up, turning his back on Ludwig -- at which Ludwig  immediately rushes up very close behind him and shakes his fist strenuously at him, turning away quickly when Oskar turns around again to try and catch Ludwig at it. 
Kafka isn't paying them any attention anymore.  He efficiently cleans up his own space, keeping an eye on the Chief Clerk's office. 
When the office bell RINGS the Chief Clerk immediately turns off his desk lamp, puts on his overcoat, and shuts his office light on his way out. 
Kafka doesn't think twice.  He forces himself to start walking to the Chief Clerk's office.  Other departing office employees crisscross past him, but he walks in a straight line, businesslike, toward the Chief Clerk's office.  He has a piece of paper in his hand.  He enters the Chief Clerk's office, holds the paper out to drop on the Chief Clerk's desk -- but lets it slip off onto the floor.  When he bends to retrieve it he quickly opens that bottom drawer where Eduard's file was -- but it's now empty. 
CUT: 
DARK STREET - EVENING 
Burgel walks along, adjusting the parcel under his arm. 
KAFKA 
Following him. 
CUT: 
ACROSS THE RIVER 
Burgel heads into the Old Town. 
KAFKA 
Pauses in some shadows.  He glances up at the distance, the way Burgel is going, up at -- 
THE CASTLE 
Almost glowing as it's outlined against the blue of the darkening night. 
CUT: 
WHORES 
Giving Kafka the eye as he goes past doorway after doorway filled with their frightening/tempting forms.  But he tries never to lose focus on the small form of Burgel further up the street. 
Men milling about, up and down the street, prostitutes roaming amongst them, Kafka negotiating his way through.  An urgent moment when he almost loses Burgel -- then sees him turning down an alley.  Kafka hurries after him, avoiding a pair of drunken louts in the way. 
FURTHER ON 
The Castle visible, but still a little in the distance. Kafka comes into view.  He sees Burgel entering a building. 
CUT: 
UPSTAIRS HALLWAY 
Very dingy.  Burgel leaves the top of the stairs and walks down to a room at the end. 
DOWNSTAIRS 
Kafka waits momentarily at the bottom, then goes up. 
HALLWAY 
Peeking around the corner, he sees a YOUNG GIRL embracing Burgel in her doorway before letting him in. 
CUT: 
OUTSIDE 
Kafka comes out of the building.  He hears a noise, turns around, sees Burgel and the girl on the tiny baroque balcony outside her room.  Kafka retreats into the shadows.  He watches the girl unwrap the parcel Burgel's given her.  She smiles as a box of chocolates is revealed. 
KAFKA 
Watches -- with an expression of guilt, sadness? Until a door suddenly opens at his back.  A MAN shuffles out past him.  A rather ugly WOMAN in a dressing gown holds the door open, giving Kafka a cursory look.  Beyond her inside, a quick glimpse of MASOCHIST yelping as he's whipped. 
Kafka puts a stamp on his letter, then adds it to the stack of obsessive correspondence already piled on one corner of his desk. 
CUT: 
THE OFFICE - EVENING 
With an ink-pad stamp, Kafka POUNDS the date onto a succession of documents. 
THE OFFICE CLOCK 
Strikes six. 
THE ASSISTANTS 
Jump in unison when the BELL goes off.  Then in their hurry to leave start shoving all their papers and whatnots haphazardly into various drawers, opening and slamming them regardless of whether or not the contents are fully inside, resulting in a lot of crumpled documents and snapped pencils. 
BURGEL 
Suddenly hovering by Kafka's side, handing him something. 
BURGEL The Chief Clerk would like this ready for tomorrow morning. (oily) He says it should only take you an extra hour or two. 
CUT: 
THE OFFICE - NIGHT 
Dead silence after the daily racket of typewriters and telephones and adding machines.  Kafka works alone in the utterly deserted office building. 
He looks out the window and sees a POLICEMAN walking by on the street below.  He thinks again about going to the law -- but goes back to work. 
He hears a SOUND.  He looks around.  A sort of a SCRATCHING sound.  It's coming from the other end of the office somewhere.  Maybe the bathroom. 
Kafka walks slowly back there.  At the bathroom door he pauses momentarily, then turns the handle to go inside. 
BATHROOM 
SCRATCH, SCRATCH.  Kafka looks for the source of the sound -- and in sudden startled shock instantly finds it -- where a huge arm has just been thrust through a small, high window -- and the ugly hand at the end of the arm is feeling around for the window-latch. 
Kafka starts backing away -- as the hand flips open the latch -- and now the window, swinging open with a bang, and the rest of the intruder starts coming into view -- out before all of him appears Kafka has run out and slammed the door behind him. 
OFFICE 
Kafka pulls a desk across the bathroom doorway. 
BATHROOM 
The MANIAC -- because that's what his posture and breathing, seen from the back, suggest -- lurches into the bathroom from the window. 
OFFICE 
Kafka grabs his coat -- and an umbrella off a rack.  He looks back at the bathroom -- the desk rocking back and forth as the intruder behind the door pushes.  Kafka runs away. 
HALLWAY 
He runs to the elevator, sliding open the gate. 
OFFICE 
CRASH!  The desk tips over as the bathroom door is forced open. 
ELEVATOR 
Kafka descending.  The elevator cranking slowly downwards. Then, nearing the ground floor, it slows down even further. Then it suddenly stops dead.  Kafka reaches for the walls to steady himself.  He looks through the gate, assessing the distance to the ground floor below.  He tries the gate but it won't open. 
KAFKA (calls down there) -- Help!  HELP! 
He looks around the tiny space of the elevator.  The roof hatch.  He reaches up, pushes it open, starts to climb up -- and YAAHH! -- the Maniac's face appears in the opening!  It's another monster face -- this one even worse than the one Kafka uncovered at the quarries.  A groaning, drooling, misshapen lump of wrinkled tissue.  And its owner's arms now come through to stretch after Kafka. 
Kafka beats them back with the umbrella while still trying to pull the unyielding gate open.  The Maniac yelps as Kafka bashes the umbrella up at him, dodging his head out of the way each time the umbrella sweeps back at him, swinging his thick arms wildly to ward off blows and try and snatch the umbrella for himself.  He finally retreats under the barrage of blows and Kafka quickly takes the opportunity to lever open the gate with the umbrella. 
LUDWIG Frankly, we don't understand why you've even bothered pursuing this business. 
KAFKA It would be more accurate to say that it has pursued me. 
OSKAR But your goal is so hard to reach. Do you think the official network would surrender to one man?  We would never think of attempting anything remotely as difficult. 
LUDWIG My mother used to tell us of the young man who decided to ride to the next village and how she was afraid that -- not even mentioning accidents -- the span of a normal happy life might fall far short of the time needed for such a trip. 
Kafka suddenly points at the ground. 
KAFKA You've dropped some money. 
The Assistants immediately bend their heads to look -- and Kafka bangs them together as hard as he can. 
The Assistants sit on the ground in a stupefied daze while Kafka's running footsteps echo around the dark street. 
CUT: 
CONTINENTAL COFFEE HOUSE - NIGHT 
Bizzlebek, perched on his usual stool, turns to see Kafka at his side. 
KAFKA You work in the cemetery. 
BIZZLEBEK A man must eat -- (raises glass) And drink. 
KAFKA The Castle cemetery. 
CUT: 
CEMETERY - NIGHT 
Ancient tombstones crumbling with age, slanting out of the ground at bizarre angles, and cluttered so close together that a way can scarcely be made between them. 
Bizzlebek leads Kafka along the crooked little pathways, overgrown with crawling weeds, upwards towards the high section of the cemetery under the dark wall of the Castle. 
Bizzlebek, who knows his way around, seems more cheerful here than we've seen him before.  Kafka more fearful.  Wind WHISTLES.  Leaves RUSTLE.  CREAKING trees cast ghastly shadows.  Scary tombs, all shapes and sizes, strange symbolic symbols on them, mystical figures and designs. 
Trying to keep up with Bizzlebek, Kafka spots a horrendous shape looming ahead of him.  He starts to bypass it -- and jumps when a tall plant brushes against him. 
BIZZLEBEK (waits for Kafka) Are you sure you wouldn't prefer going through official channels? 
The awful dark shape turns out to be no more than a particularly large tombstone, crumbled in places to give it an animal-like suggestion. 
KAFKA Official channels -- a lot of good they've done me.  My only hope is to approach the officials personally. 
He keeps walking -- and we SEE that he's carrying the bomb- briefcase he found at Eduard's. 
BIZZLEBEK -- I'm flattered, of course, to be considered a friend -- even without knowing all the details. (Kafka doesn't take that cue) -- To see such determination is reward enough for me. 
KAFKA The Kafka men are famous for it, you know.  Delivering meat barefoot in the depths of winter, picking up sacks of flour with their teeth -- 
A BIRD rapidly swoops down from a tree, zipping past Kafka's head with a shrieking SQUAWK! 
KAFKA (gulp) -- Oh, yes, determination runs in the family. 
BIZZLEBEK There is one thing I'd like you to tell me. 
KAFKA I'm trying to find things out myself -- that's the whole point. 
BIZZLEBEK What made you think I'd be able to get you into the Castle? 
KAFKA The cemetery is nearer the Castle than anywhere else -- wasn't it part of the Castle originally?  -- I always assumed there'd be a gate or something. (stops again, concerned) Isn't there? 
BIZZLEBEK In a manner of speaking. 
CUT: 
HIGHER GROUND - NIGHT 
SUDDENLY fingers spear through the bars of another cell to touch Kafka!  A GAUNT MAN inside. 
GAUNT MAN You've killed him!  Like a dog! 
Kafka dropped his lantern in surprise, and shrinks back, CRUNCHING glass. 
GAUNT MAN -- They won't like that.  Not a bit! 
KAFKA I didn't -- 
The inhabitants of the other cells start RATTLING their bars and beseeching Kafka.  He looks around, bewildered and horrified.  Hideous faces looking back at him. 
GAUNT MAN You'll incriminate the rest of us! Let me out too! 
Shuddering, Kafka is moving away, making it through the shocking gauntlet, toward the door at the other end. 
HORRIBLE VOICES Help us! -- release us! 
GAUNT MAN (yelling above the din) You're in the bowels now, my friend! You've thrown yourself in it now! 
A HAGGARD MAN who may have had his tongue cut out gestures desperately at a lever on the wall to unlock the cells. Kafka starts to tentatively reach for it -- when there's a sudden SHRIEK beside him.  He whirls to see, behind more bars, the raving, convoluted face of the creature that stalked him at his office (whose loose eye has now gone completely) -- BANGING violently against his door. 
GAUNT MAN Let me out -- I'm all right -- they haven't treated me yet!  We can go together! 
But now the evil Mr. Pick appears at the end of the passage from which Kafka came -- a gun in his hand. 
MR. PICK You! 
Kafka yanks the lever and runs away.  Mr. Pick FIRES after him, starting to chase -- but the prisoners are coming out of their cells -- coming for him. 
CUT: 
SPIRAL STONE STAIRWELL 
Kafka runs upwards, around and around and around. 
ANOTHER FLOOR 
Here is a part of the Castle Kafka can understand -- office workers toiling away.  Kafka walks past one long row of them, SCRIBES sitting at a single endless desk.  They look like students under examination, hunched over their writing, a virtual conveyor belt of paperwork. 
In the center of this floor is an actual conveyor -- a chain pulley running slowly up and down, presumably throughout the entire Castle, through small holes in the floor and ceiling. There are little pockets on the chain which the clerks continually pluck papers out of and slip papers into. 
The ink bottle of one of the scribes runs dry.  He takes it over to a sink with three taps -- Hot, Cold -- and the third one he turns -- Ink. 
CUT: 
CORRIDOR 
Kafka passes a FRIENDLY CLERK. 
FRIENDLY CLERK Are you lost? 
Kafka nearly laughs at the enormity of the question. 
KAFKA I'm, uh, looking for the Medical Records Section. 
Pause. 
FRIENDLY CLERK Oh, you're miles away.  From here you'll want to go left, left again, right, right again, left then right, right then left, and take the Blue Staircase. 
KAFKA Thank you. 
FRIENDLY CLERK (going on his way) -- I haven't seen you here before. 
KAFKA No ... 
KAFKA 
He stands there, a man in a suit with a briefcase in an antiseptic corridor. 
KAFKA What have you done with Gabriela Rossmann? 
MURNAU As a matter of fact you've caught us in a state of considerable excitement.  Our latest preparation we believe -- we pray -- is perfected. It should take years off her. 
He's concocting another potion now, pouring an acidic-looking liquid from one container to another.  Kafka is looking increasingly worried. 
MURNAU And if not -- well, there are always what I call my caprices of vivisection. 
He glances at the dangling animal parts.  And now, finished mixing his cocktail, he picks up some sort of suturing tool, pressing the trigger on it to start the end burning and SIZZLING. 
MURNAU Actually, if it weren't for the aberrant dilemma posed by someone like yourself -- continually asking for out-of-date files -- I'd probably give up my revisionist policies altogether. I'm sure what we have to do is start instead at the very inception -- with the embryo -- from a single cell even. (leers at Kafka) The lure of the Golem -- the man-made man.  You appreciate that, I know. 
Ekman takes Kafka by the arm to lead him toward the operating table.  The Laughing Man moves in closer too, emitting a psychotic chortle. 
MURNAU To corrupt the image of man and then offer redemption ... This is the dawn, Kafka.  A new man is being born here.  A more resilient man ... A superman. 
Kafka attempts an escape around the operating table, but the Laughing Man blocks his way and corrals him back to where he was before.  Dr. Murnau holds out the sinister aperitif for Kafka to take and drink in toast. 
MURNAU To a new world -- of Gods and monsters. 
The glass comes closer and closer to Kafka's lips -- if he leans away from it any further he'll be lying on the operating table -- but now a WRENCHING noise makes everybody turn. 
The body of Mr. Pick, bloody and ragged, is dragged up with a SMASH through a breaking floor-panel by the great chain. 
Kafka has his chance.  The next time anyone looks at him he's holding the nozzle of the burning device under Ekman's throat, finger on the trigger. 
-- And on the other side of the laboratory a wide elevator platform rises into view -- carrying the prisoners from the dungeons! 
KAFKA 
Throws Ekman aside and runs away. 
EKMAN 
Falls to the floor, holding his hands up over his head with a SCREAM as the ghastly creatures from the depths converge on him -- but they pass him by -- intent on getting Murnau. 
The last out of the elevator is the most horrible BEAST-MAN yet -- and we finally see the use to which various animal-parts have been put. 
MURNAU 
Just stands by the operating table, waiting for them.  He knows there's no way out and he's far too practical a man to waste energy running or screaming. 
CUT: 
DOORWAYS 
Kafka running through the Castle, through door after door after door after door, leaving them all banging behind him, back and forth. 
CUT: 
THE LABORATORY 
Ekman stumbles to his feet, watching in horror as the prisoners of the Castle strap Murnau to his own operating table. 
One by one, the prisoners file past the intricate surgical tools neatly laid out on white cloth.  Each prisoner selects the implement of his choice. 
Ekman, too, runs away out of the laboratory. 
The Laughing Man, snickering, isn't sure whose side he's on. But then, LAUGHTER BUILDING, he goes to join the others in line. 
CUT: 
DOORWAYS 
Kafka still running in the maze -- through a final door.  And he finds himself right back in -- 
THE LIBRARY 
With the brightness of the laboratory facing him through its open door.  Horrible SOUNDS coming from in there. 
CASTLE GATES - DAWN 
Opening.  The police Inspector enters the main courtyard. Behind him come the two secondary policemen.  Behind them, obscurely, a few more. 
CASTLE COURTYARD 
He and his men pause, reacting ... 
... as the few wretched survivors of the Castle prison stagger out of the shadows to greet them. 
CUT: 
EMBANKMENT - MORNING 
On the Old Town side of the River.  Foggy. 
KAFKA 
Walks slowly, tiredly.  He looks up at the sky, but the sky is a silver shield against anyone who looks for help from it. 
FURTHER ON 
Kafka stops.  Turns.  Did he hear something other than the wind and the water? 
FURTHER ON 
He passes through a small park, approaching a gate on the other side of it.  Leaves RUSTLING.  Mist swirling around him.  He opens the gate and -- BOO! 
GABRIELA 
Standing there, half in shadow, in profile.  Her glorious profile. 
KAFKA Gabriela! -- you did get away. 
GABRIELA I knew you walked this way to work.  I wanted to find you before they did. 
KAFKA -- I've just come from the Castle.  It's over. 
GABRIELA (her eye glancing far away) Over?  It's only over when you can crawl to a clean little spot on earth where the sun sometimes shines and you can warm yourself a bit. 
Kafka is beginning to sense something quite wrong with her. 
KAFKA Gabriela ...? 
GABRIELA Should I tell you why I joined our late lamented nihilists? Why I became a murderer? Because murder ... is bliss. (looks at him) It's easier than you might think to absorb and assimilate Evil -- once you've adopted its procedure. 
Kafka just watches her ... The breeze sings in the air. 
GABRIELA Have you ever watched a person deteriorate?  Day by day.  I don't mean in a spiritual sense. 
Kafka doesn't answer.  She turns fully to him.  The other side of her beautiful face is ... fungus.  Alive.  Seething. Frothing.  Bubbling.  Kafka backs away a couple of steps. 
GABRIELA Only two steps back?  Even the man they left to guard me retreated further than that. 
KAFKA I -- I found your jailer. 
GABRIELA This is the result of their elixir of youth.  They were to come and check on it during the night.  I contrived to miss the appointment. 
KAFKA They're dead now.  We can get help. 
GABRIELA I know how they reward failure. If they saw this I'd be rotting in the quarries by the afternoon -- with all the others. 
KAFKA There's a new potion -- he said it was perfected. 
GABRIELA I know there is.  And you're what I have to bargain with. For now you're the last one in their way. 
KAFKA I told you, they're dead.  It's finished. 
GABRIELA Why should I believe a man who never believed me?  They're absolutely right, you know -- guilt should never be doubted. It's easier that way. 
