"KALIFORNIA" 
Screenplay by 
Tim Metcalfe 
Based on a story by 
Stephen Levy and Tim Metcalfe 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
EXT. - NIGHT 
It's raining like hell. Flashes of lightning reveal momentary glimpses of a decayed urban/industrial landscape. Far below us, a mysterious glistening wet rock lies engulfed in the drowning earth. We descend toward the rock. Sporadic flashes of lightning distort our perspective of the stone. It looks strangely beautiful, like a diamond stuck in the dark mud... Closer... Closer... 
Suddenly, STRONG MALE HANDS cut across the frame and wrench it free from its muddy grave. Even closer... And we discover that the underbelly of this beautiful rock is teeming with every kind of slithering repulsive insect... FLASH!!* Lightning obliterates the frame. 
(* FLASHES OF LIGHT from lightning, car headlights, photographic strobe units and flashlights are used throughout the following sequences as recurring transitional devices.) 
CITY STREET EXT. NIGHT 
We can barely see the darkened street in a run down part of an inner city -- what we can see looks half demolished. Flash!! 
Through chain link fencing, the blinding headlights of a 70'S CHEVY arc into frame. For an instant we see the fleeting image of a PRETTY TEENAGE GIRL. On her feet a pair of bright red high heeled shoes. The Chevy pulls up next to her. 
INT. 70'S CHEVY - NIGHT 
FLASH!! An oncoming car's headlights streak across the beat up Chevy's windshield... revealing... THE DRIVER, 45ish, as he leans across the passenger seat and opens the car door. 
The pretty teenage girl slides into the car. Dressed only in a skirt and T-Shirt, she's soaked to the skin. Make-up runs down her face and her hair sticks to her bare shoulders. She seems nervous... scared even. 
PRETTY TEENAGE GIRL Thanks. 
As she closes the car door the man notices that her hand has been injured. It's bound with coarse white toweling and stained with blood. In her other hand, she clings tightly to a cheap yellow leather purse. He reaches forward and puts his hand on the gear-shift, the back of his hand brushing against her leg, she moves away. He slides the gear-shift into drive. 
Another car's headlights flare the windshield as he pulls out into the night. 
INT. ROOFLESS OLD WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
Suddenly... a powerful photographic strobe light ignites! Revealing a decrepit warehouse interior. Silhouetted briefly against the paint chipped walls are two figures: A man, BRIAN KESSLER, 25, short chopped hair dressed in black on black, and a woman, CARRIE LAUGHLIN, 25, short black hair and tight black clothes. Carrie holds a 35mm still camera, an umbilical cord runs to a strobe light. Brian holds a flashlight in one hand, a tape recorder in the other. He begins speaking into the tape recorder. 
BRIAN Her father worked the night shift here. Most nights he'd bring her with him. (pause) She was eleven years old. 
His flashlight scans the ominous environment. Carrie takes flash photo. 
EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - NIGHT 
Emerging from the blackness... The same strong male hands that unearthed the rock now pulls his rain soaked jacket clear of his torso. A crude bandage wrapped around one of the fingers. The rock is slipped up under his jacket... up against his bare chest. The jacket is pulled down to conceal the rock and the faceless figure drifts away. 
INT. ROOFLESS OLD WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
The beam of Brian's flashlight sweeps through the darkness, revealing another room. 
BRIAN This is it. This is the where he'd take her whenever he had the urge to molest her. 
The flashlight finds the corner in question. Flash!! The warehouse lights up again, revealing a huge machine room. 
BRIAN Of course! Nobody would have heard her cries over the noise of the machines. 
INT. 70'S CHEVY - NIGHT 
A male hand wipes the steamy condensation clear of his car's front window. The windshield wipers swipe incessantly at the constant sheet of rain beyond. 
DRIVER Damn! This defroster never works... 
The driver fidgets blindly with the various levers and knobs. He finally manages to get the defroster and heater to work. The girl leans forward into the stream of warm air. 
PRETTY TEENAGE GIRL ...Mmm... feels good. 
She closes her eyes, lets it blow across her face. He watches her. His eyes linger on her body. 
DRIVER Have a problem with your car? 
She pulls her wet hair off her bruised face and gives him a nervous smile. 
PRETTY TEENAGE GIRL No. (beat) My problem's with men. 
He throws a curious look at her, then back to the highway. 
INT. ROOFLESS OLD WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
Brian's flashlight moves around the room. 
BRIAN This is where she murdered her first victim. They found his body over in the corner, shot through the head. 
The flashlight continues to search through the darkness. 
BRIAN They found her second victim over there. 
Another flash!!!!! 
INT. 70'S CHEVY 
Very close on the girl's yellow purse... as the metal zipper is pulled open. The driver notices her opening the purse. 
BRIAN Dead. 
KIM (O.S.) (sarcastic) Obviously! 
NEW ANGLE 
A small party in progress. Graduate student types, smoking, drinking. The usual. Carrie and Brian stand out in this group, their look is more stylized, their attitude less complacent. Carrie, in particular, looks restless. 
CARL Man or woman? 
BRIAN Man. 
Carrie tunes in and pays attention to the game. 
CLAUDIA Real or fictional. 
BRIAN Real. 
CARRIE Ted Bundy. 
Brian's eyes dart to Carrie. The look on his face tells everyone she nailed it. Brian gets up to get another drink. Several people laugh, amazed that Carrie knows Brian so well. 
CLAUDIA What a guess! 
CARL Doesn't count, she's disqualified. 
CARRIE Why? 
CARL Because you've been living with him, and his thesis for the last year and a half. (beat) He's probably been researching Ted Bundy all week. 
PETER Carl, you are the world's worst loser! 
Carl looks over to Carrie. She gives him the finger and a cheeky smile. 
CAROL, sitting next to Carrie, asks... 
CAROL Any word from that gallery? 
CARRIE Not yet. 
CAROL Nervous? 
CARRIE ...Apprehensive. Let's not forget these are the people who banned the Mapplethorpe show. Anyway, California's loaded with galleries. 
CAROL (nods toward Brian) You mean 'Ted Bundy's' finally agreed to leave? 
Carrie watches Brian disappear into another room. 
CARRIE ...Soon as he finishes his thesis. 
CAROL Listen, Eric's been "finishing" his for over three years now. 
Carrie lights a cigarette. Her frustration is showing. 
CARRIE Yeah, well Brian's got 'til the end of the summer, then I'm outta here. 
She gets up and begins weaving her way through the crowded room. Carol follows. 
CAROL I'm sorry, but I just can't see you veggin' out in LA-LA LAND. 
CARRIE Oh, I don't know... I think that once I dye my hair blonde, buy a string bikini and cultivate that tan... I could be veggin' out with the best of 'em... (does a valley- girl/beach bunny) Like fer shurr! 
Carrie and Carol share a strained laugh. 
OMITTED 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
INT. APARTMENT KITCHEN - FEW MOMENTS LATER 
The room's crowded with people. There's a lot of noise -- "shop talk," banter. Clipped conversations overlap, as we find Brian with his friend Eric. They are in the midst of making a blender of margaritas. 
BRIAN I'm talking about the mind and culpability of a serial killer. Someone who has no ability to distinguish between right and wrong should not be imprisoned, let alone executed. 
Eric dumps in a handful of ice cubes as Brian pours in the booze. 
ERIC Oh, here we go again. Let's just lay it all at the altar of misfiring synapses, amok biochemicals and horrendous childhoods. 
BRIAN Look, it's a fact, most of these people suffer from a severe chemical brain imbalance. (beat) That enough Tequila? 
ERIC Probably not... 
Brian pours in the rest of the bottle. 
BRIAN (to Eric) The answer is research and treatment under hospital supervised conditions, not the electric chair! 
Eric looks for triple sec in the cupboards. PETER overhears them on his way to the refrigerator. 
PETER Yeah, until it's your mother's head they find in the refrigerator. 
He pulls open the refrigerator door and grabs two beers. Carrie steps up behind Brian. 
BRIAN Executing the killer wouldn't bring my mother back. 
CARRIE Thank god! 
Brian walks ahead, Carrie trails behind him, peeling off her clothes. She begins unzipping her dress, unnoticed by Brian. 
BRIAN Tonight turned out to be pretty interesting. 
CARRIE The party? 
She grabs a leather cap that sits on a chair. 
BRIAN The warehouse. I'm not that drunk. 
CARRIE It was definitely the high point of the evening. 
Carrie's dress falls to the floor. 
BRIAN (getting excited) Just being there where it really happened. It was different... more visceral. 
CARRIE Mmm... I love it when you talk like that. 
Brian is at the foot of the bed, he turns to see... Carrie has transformed. She has stripped down to her black bra and panties, fishnet stockings, a nightporter style leather cap. A surprised Brian stands there a moment. Looking at Carrie. She looks great. 
OMITTED 
Carrie pushes Brian back onto the bed. 
OMITTED 
Carrie climbs on top of him. She kisses his neck. Slowly starts working her lips across his chest and down his stomach. 
EXT. EARLY'S TRAILER - MORNING 
A solitary trailer sits alongside a run down house. 
INT. EARLY'S TRAILER - MORNING 
Through the soot tinged atmosphere, sunlight filters in past the curtained windows. Early is lying face down in bed, his right arm extended over the side. Adele is in the kitchen half dressed, and unsuccessfully attempting to iron one of Early's shirts. She realizes the iron is out of water, she sets it down and steps to the sink and fills a glass with water. As she does she glances at a cactus on the counter. 
OMITTED 
ADELE You thirsty Lucy? 
OMITTED 
She waters her small cactus (Lucy). 
ADELE Bet that feels good, don't it? 
NEW ANGLE - THE REFRIGERATOR 
Adele smiles then notices that a photo held to the fridge by a decorative magnet has fallen to the floor. She picks it up. 
ADELE Now if that ain't Momma's little angel. 
Adele puts it back onto the fridge. It is a photo of a young Early with his mother. In the photo Early appears to be about ten or eleven. he stands next to his mother. Her arm is draped over his shoulders, she is holding a drink. A cigarette butt dangles between her fingers. Nearby a portable radio is tuned to music, when the local radio jingle comes on and segues to the news. 
NEW ANGLE ON EARLY 
A handkerchief bandana is tied around his head and over his eyes. 
The NEWSCASTER'S voice gets louder. 
NEWSCASTER (O.S.) ...two more victims last night, when a twenty pound rock smashed through the windshield of their car... 
CLOSER - EARLY'S FACE 
Slowly he reaches to his face and lifts the bandana up off one eye. Even closer on his left eyelid. It flutters... pops open and blinks. Now... his eyeball stares right at us. The pitch black pupil contracts in the morning light. The newscaster's voice continues to amplify... 
NEWSCASTER This was the third such attack in the past month and while an extensive police operation is underway... no arrests have yet been made. 
The newscaster's voice quickly fades away. Early calmly closes his eyes and drifts back to sleep. 
EXT. EARLY'S TRAILER - LATE MORNING 
Early emerges from the trailer drinking a bottle of beer. He looks around the yard, it's full of various kinds of useless junk. He walks over to his car. Adele appears in the doorway of the trailer in her bathrobe. 
ADELE Early... 
She glances around to make certain that no one's looking, then 'flashes' her body to Early with a giggle. 
ADELE Have a good one. 
Early smiles. Adele turns back into the trailer then, remembers... 
ADELE Oh... I forgot to tell you, Mr. Diebold was by again yesterday. 
Early looks at the run down house next door where Diebold lives. A beat up red pick-up is parked in front. 
ADELE He said, if he ain't got the rest of his money by the end of the month, he's gonna "kick us the... (spells the word fuck to avoid saying it) F-U-C-K outta here." 
Early works his jaw, thinking. 
EARLY He said that, huh? Cursed in front of you? 
Adele nods. 
ADELE You gonna talk to him? 
EARLY I ain't got nothing against God. It's the people he let come into the world... lot of them should have been stopped at the door. What are you looking for? 
The Parole Officer ignores the question. He steps up to a sink overflowing with dirty dishes. 
PAROLE OFFICER That girlfriend of yours ain't much for housekeeping, is she. 
Early dismisses the place with a glance. 
EARLY I'm thinking about moving... 
Early opens the refrigerator, grabs a bottle of beer. 
EARLY Maybe down to Texas... Probably get some work on them offshore oil rigs. Hear the pay's good... hell, the weather's got to be better'n here. 
Early sits down at the table. The Parole Officer steps over to him. 
PAROLE OFFICER What are you talking about? You know you can't leave the state. (hiccup) What you can do is get a job. 
The Parole Officer pulls a slip of paper from his shirt pocket, sets it on the table. 
PAROLE OFFICER You be at this personnel office, Friday, three o'clock sharp. 
EARLY What is it? 
PAROLE OFFICER ...Janitor's job. 
EARLY Oh man... come on, I don't want no janitor job. 
Early lifts his beer for another drink. The Parole Officer's prosthetic hand snaps tight around the neck of the beer bottle, just inches from Early's lips. 
PAROLE OFFICER Hey, I don't give two shits about what you want or don't want... I'm telling you to be there Friday, three o'clock sharp or the sheriff will be here for dinner. You understand? 
With that Early looks up at the man, almost defiantly, then stands up. The Parole Officer hiccups again. Early stares at him for a moment. 
EARLY You oughta think about putting a bag over your head... Might cure them hiccups. 
The Parole Officer shakes his head in disgust and walks out of the trailer to his car. 
OMITTED 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
BRIAN'S DESK IN ANOTHER PART OF LOFT APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Brian's in the midst of working his way through pages and pages of thesis notes scattered atop his desk. Using chopsticks he shovels Chinese straight out of the carton as he studies Carrie's warehouse photographs. 
CARRIE'S POV 
As we approach Brian from behind, moving closer, closer. 
NEW ANGLE - BRIAN'S DESK 
Carrie steps up behind him. She's rubbing her eyes, having just awakened. A hangover beckons. Brian notices her. 
BRIAN Hey. I didn't have the heart to wake you. 
CARRIE Thanks. What are you doing? 
BRIAN Well, I sat down with my tapes and your photographs, which are great by the way... and I started writing. 
Carrie grabs his container of Chinese and takes a few bites. Listens. 
CARRIE So how's it going? 
BRIAN ...I think it's the best stuff I've done. 
Carrie glances over his shoulder at his writing. 
BRIAN ...and I think I know why. 
CARRIE Why? 
BRIAN Because I was there. And for a moment that night I understood how she came to pull the trigger. 
CARRIE (sarcastic) This mean your finally going to finish your thesis? 
BRIAN Look, fuck the thesis. I think there's a book here. Your photographs and my research, together. 
CARRIE A book on the warehouse murders? 
BRIAN A book on some of the most infamous murderers in America. I want to go to where they lived and where they killed and I want you to photograph it. 
Brian reaches down to the floor and pulls a large map of the United States up and lays it out on his desk. He traces a route West. Along the way, specific locations have been circled. 
BRIAN What I'm thinking is, we can drop down through Tennessee, across Arkansas and into Texas, from there it's a straight shot into California. (pause) "We don't stop... until we hit the fucking ocean." 
OMITTED 
CARRIE It's about fucking time, Kessler! I'd just about given up on you. 
BRIAN We don't have enough money, but we'll figure something out. 
Carrie steps up to Brian. 
BRIAN ...It's either the best idea I've had in a long time... or there's way too much MSG in this stuff. 
Brian looks to him, Early grins and winks. Brian slams the Lincoln trunk lid shut. 
SCREEN TO BLACK 
EXT. EARLY'S BURNING TRAILER - DAWN 
From the blackness... The camera rises from a pile of rubble. As it ascends we reveal Diebold's pitbulls howling and digging at a mound of fresh earth where Early's hole used to be. 
The crackling flames of a nearby fire illuminate the scene. Deep in the distance, the wail of approaching sirens. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Reveal that it's Early's trailer and car that are on fire. 
INT. TRAILER 
Flames consume the magazine photos of Elvis and Priscilla, Farrah and Ryan, Early and Adele. Along with them, the black and white photo of young Early and his mother. 
EXT. BUS STATION - DAWN - OVERHEAD ANGLE 
On the Lincoln as it exits the Bus Station. The camera descends toward a lone trash can, to find there, lying amidst the debris inside... Adele's cactus. 
EXT. CITY STREETS - MORNING 
The Lincoln passes through on its way out of town. 
INT. MOVING LINCOLN - MORNING 
Brian behind the wheel, Carrie riding shotgun. Early and Adele are sitting in the back seat. An awkward silence prevails. Brian clears his throat. 
BRIAN Uh, we can stop somewhere if you and Adele haven't had time for breakfast, Early. 
EARLY Well, it's like this, Mr. Kessler. 
BRIAN Brian. 
EARLY Well, it's like this, Bri'. I don't eat much in the mornin', never have. Maybe a beer once in a while; Lucky Lager's my favorite. 
Brian raises his eyebrow a tad, but is not really curious about it. 
ADELE It's because of what he read in a book once... That folks needin' breakfast is a myth, or whatever, put out by those cereal people. 
A glance passes between Brian and Carrie. Is she for real? 
CARRIE'S POV - IN VANITY MIRROR 
Early motions Adele not to talk so much. 
NEW ANGLE 
BRIAN So what do you do Early? 
EARLY Oh... I do some work up at the Merrick Mirror factory, or I used to... 
ADELE One night we figured out how much bad luck he must have comin' from all them mirrors he broke... (beat) Four hundred and ninety four years to work it all off... After he dies, he'll have to keep coming back to earth over and over and over... 
CARRIE Karma. 
Adele and early show no sign of understanding the word. 
ADELE What? 
CARRIE Karma... (beat) You know, if you do something bad to somebody fate will pay you back by something bad happening to you. 
ADELE That French ain't it? 
Carrie glances at the odometer on the dash... THE FIRST MILE clicks over. 
EXT. LINCOLN - OUTSKIRTS OF THE CITY 
Everyone takes a last look at the familiar countryside. Carrie is snapping photos of the twisting concrete overpasses and the gloomy grey sky beyond. 
INT. LINCOLN 
Adele watches Carrie, intrigued by the obvious skill Carrie shows with the camera. Brian glances into the rear-view mirror at Adele. 
BRIAN So Adele, did Early happen to mention the places we'll be stopping at? 
ON ADELE'S REFLECTION IN MIRROR... then Early leans in front of her. 
EARLY Yeah Bri' I did. 
Adele leans against Carrie's front seat. 
ADELE (to Carrie) Are you takin' the pictures? 
CARRIE (surprised) ...Yeah. 
ADELE Is it hard to learn? 
CARRIE Not really. 
Early pulls Adele back toward the back seat. 
EARLY (to Brian) You gonna talk to the people who did those murders? 
Carrie points the camera at a smiling Adele and snaps the first picture. 
CARRIE You just aim and press the button. 
Adele takes the camera. 
INT. LINCOLN 
Adele focuses her camera at the scenery out the side window of the car. 
ADELE Look, Pigeon Forge! 
ADELE'S POV 
Road sign to Pigeon Forge. 
EXT. LINCOLN 
Adele leans out the side rear window to get a better view. 
ADELE I've heard of that! It's where Dolly Parton has her park. "Dollywood". I just think that's so clever. Hollywood. Dollywood. Get it? 
With that, she plops back down into the back seat. 
INT. LINCOLN 
EARLY (under his breath) Shush, Adele. 
ADELE Early, can we stop there... just for a little while. 
EXT. HIGHWAY 
As we see the car disappearing into the distance, we can still hear Adele rambling on. 
ADELE (O.S.) ...I've always wanted to go there... It could be such fun. 
FADE OUT: 
EXT. LARGE ISOLATED OLD FARM - AFTERNOON 
The Lincoln approaches on a dirtroad and passes a mailbox with the name "BAXTER" on it. The Lincoln turns into the long driveway. 
INT. LINCOLN - SAME TIME 
Brian begins talking into a small portable tape recorder. 
BRIAN The Novaks are all gone but the fence that Michael Zaruba was hired to put up is still here. 
He glances to Carrie, who fires off several photos of the fence and yard. 
The Lincoln continues slowly down the long drive... Up ahead through the windshield Brian sees a beautiful old farm house. 
BRIAN The Novaks embraced the young drifter as one of their own. 
EXT. LINCOLN 
The Lincoln slows to a halt. Carrie and Brian exit the car and begin walking toward the house. Early follows. Adele, uncertain about what's transpiring, trails behind. 
ADELE Hey you two. 
Brian and Carrie turn to see... Adele training a camera on them. 
ADELE Give me a smile now. 
Brian and Carrie look to one another then force a weak smile. Early jumps in and throws a pair of devil's horns up behind Brian's unsuspecting head as... the shutter clicks. 
Brian and Carrie quickly turn their attention back on the house. 
BRIAN (continues into tape recorder) Neighbors said he was a quiet young man, who was often seen pushing the children on the swing set. 
An unusual bird house and a tricycle sit in the front yard. To the side of the house are the remains of an old swing set. Carrie finds an interesting angle on the swing set, with the house in the background, SNAP! She fires off a shot. 
BRIAN (continuing) Everything was fine until the day the family ran out of work for Michael, and had to ask him to leave. 
As Carrie frames up another shot, Early crosses in front of her camera. Realizing he is in Carrie's photo he stops and poses. Carrie looks to Brian. 
BRIAN Sorry, Early... Could you step out the way, for a second? 
Early is surprised that they don't want him in the photograph. He wanders away from the front of the house. Meanwhile, Adele photographs the moment. 
BRIAN The first one to die was the nine year old daughter... 
Just then... A NINE YEAR OLD GIRL comes running from around the side of the house. She stops dead when she sees all of them. Carrie snaps a final photo. 
BRIAN Hello. 
The little girl scans all their faces. 
BRIAN ...My name's Brian, what's yours? 
The little girl remains silent. Brian rolls a look to Carrie then back to the little girl. 
BRIAN ...Could I speak to your parents? 
After an awkward pause, the little girl silently crosses the yard to the porch and opens the front door. 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
EXT. - LINCOLN PULLS UP TO MOTEL AND PARKS. 
INT. MOTEL RESTAURANT - NIGHT 
A small roadside diner. A fair number of people inside having dinner. Adele, Early, Carrie, and Brian are seated at one of the tables. 
AT THEIR TABLE 
Carrie watches Early eat with a kind of horrible, rude fascination. He has no table manners at all. He eats with his elbows on the table, fork wedged in the fist of his right hand. All the while, he chews with his mouth open. He's serious about his "eating." 
BRIAN (studying his map) Well we've come three hundred miles so far. Not a bad day's haul. 
Early doesn't bother to respond. He keeps eating. 
BRIAN You got any family or friends in California, Early? 
CU ANGLE ON EARLY 
With a piece of bread he mops up the gravy on his plate. 
EARLY (chewing) Nope... You? 
ANGLE UNDER THE TABLE 
Early's foot itches... He tries to scratch it but it doesn't do any good. 
BRIAN (O.S.) No. 
ADELE (O.S.) Me neither. How 'bout you Carrie? 
CARRIE (O.S.) No. 
ANGLE - THE GROUP 
As Brian folds up the map. Early takes off his boot, then his well-worn sock. Carrie's look of disgust grows as Early brings his foot up onto his lap and scratches it while he eats. Carrie puts her fork down: dinner is over for her. 
ADELE ...Well, least we got each other. That's somethin'. 
OMITTED 
OMITTED 
Brian looks up, sees Carrie's expression... Then what's causing it... Early mops up the last bit of food on his plate. He notices Brian and Carrie staring at him and slowly puts his foot back down on the floor -- then the sock. 
Brian picks up the check to see the total... Starts pulling his wallet out... Isn't quite sure how to bring up the tab to Early. 
EARLY Thanks Bri', I'll get the next one. (prompts Adele) Think it's time we hit the sack. 
Early winks at Brian, Carrie catches the wink. Early and Adele get up and head for the door. Adele waves goodnight. 
ADELE (to Carrie) Sweet dreams. 
INT. CARRIE AND BRIAN'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Close on Carrie, she is reflected in a mirror. Reveal, Carrie wearing only a T-shirt is at the vanity angrily brushing her teeth. In the bathroom next to her, a bath is running. In the adjacent bedroom, Brian is in the bed working on his notes. 
INT. BATHROOM 
CARRIE (spits out a mouthful of water) You mean because I object to having somebody take off their shoe and scratch their foot while I'm eating I'm prejudiced? 
INT. BEDROOM - SAME TIME 
BRIAN (reading notes) He can't help the way he was raised. I kinda feel sorry for him. 
INT. BATHROOM 
Carrie pauses in brushing her teeth. 
CARRIE Feel sorry for him? Obviously you didn't get a whiff of that sock? 
BRIAN (O.S.) Bitch, bitch, bitch! 
CARRIE (under her breath) Up yours. 
BRIAN I heard that. 
INT. BATHROOM 
Carrie finishes brushing her teeth. Secretively she gives Brian the finger... 
BRIAN (O.S.) ...heard that too. 
Carrie glances at the bath water running in the tub. It's rusty brown and disgusting. She pulls the plug on the bath idea. 
INT. EARLY AND ADELE'S MOTEL BATHROOM ROOM - SAME TIME 
The tap is running at the sink as Early empties the stolen purse. He adds the last few coins to a small pile of cash. 
EARLY Can you believe thirty bucks for this room... for what? A lumpy mattress, that crummy TV and a crapper. 
ADELE (O.S.) Early, sing me a song. 
Early continues to sift through all the items from the purse. 
Early lifts his beer bottle in salute. 
EARLY Bri'. 
CARRIE Where's Adele? 
EARLY She wasn't feeling so good. 
The WAITRESS arrives with a menu, offers it to Early. 
WAITRESS Breakfast? 
EARLY (burps) Nah... Don't eat breakfast. Never have. 
The Waitress notices Early's bottle of beer. 
WAITRESS Ah sir... sir. 
She gets Early's attention. 
WAITRESS (concerned) We ah... don't have a liquor license here. So I'm afraid... 
EARLY Well don't be, I got plenty more where this one came from. 
The Waitress gives him a curious look and walks away. 
Just then, Brian look past Early... A surprised expression crosses Brian's face. Early turns to see... Adele approaching the table. Her hair has been crudely chopped to resemble Carrie's. It looks like shit. 
CARRIE (at a loss for words) You cut your hair. 
Adele smiles, pleased with Carrie for noticing. She sits down next to Brian. 
ADELE Early cut it. (smiles at Early) ...Once he gets an idea in his head there's no holding him back. 
Carrie looks to Brian curiously. Adele is distracted by a small cactus on the window near the table. 
BRIAN Nice job Early. 
Carrie notices Adele's 'new' (stolen) purse... We see the wheels turning in Carrie's head. How? Where? 
OMITTED 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
EXT. MOTEL - LATER 
Early walks toward the Lincoln. It is parked outside Brian and Carrie's room. The front door is ajar, he pushes it open. He sees Carrie's reflection in the bathroom mirror, she's in her underwear, pulling on her jeans. Early watches her for a moment. There's no mistaking what's on his mind... as his eyes scan her body. Carrie pulls on her T-shirt, steps out of the bathroom and sees Early just outside the door. 
EARLY ...Need a hand with those bags? 
CARRIE No, thanks, I can manage. 
INT. MOTEL ROOM - SAME TIME 
Carrie turns back to the dresser and gathers up the last few things. She glances into the dresser mirror looking for Early's reflection at the door, but he's gone. Relieved, she turns the corner to grab her bags and finds Early standing right there! Looking at her. He startles her. 
EARLY I got 'em. 
He picks up her bags and walks out of the room. Carrie watches him, then she steps to the doorway. 
BRIAN (O.S.) All set? 
CARRIE (startled) Fuck! 
BRIAN Take your time. 
CARRIE LOOKS BACK TO EARLY 
CARRIE'S POV - EXT. MOTEL 
Early places the bags in the Lincoln's trunk. Adele sees Early carrying Carrie's bag, Adele looks jealous. 
EXT. MOTEL 
In the foreground Carrie's door closes. 
TO BLACK. 
EXT. LINCOLN/HIGHWAY - LATER 
Lincoln passes through frame. 
INT. MOVING LINCOLN - NOON 
Brian at wheel, Carrie next to him loading her camera. Early in the back seat, Adele next to him pulls out some make up from her bag, we see the little cactus from the motel lobby. She begins to put on some lipstick. Early reaches into the frontseat and grabs the manuscript that sits between Brian and Carrie. 
EARLY (starts to read) This the book your writing? 
BRIAN It's just a work in progress, kinda rough. 
EARLY This guy killed a mess of people. 
BRIAN Who? 
EARLY Henry Lucas. 
Early turns to see a late model Mercedes behind him. He just gazes at the driver. Aggravated, the driver leans on the horn and motions Early out of his way. Early stares at the man a moment longer, then steps to one side and lets the car pull past him. 
WIDE ON THE GAS STATION 
A FAT MAN in his late thirties exits from behind the wheel of the Mercedes. Early watches him as he takes a money clip from his pocket and walks toward the entrance to the mini market. 
EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND 
The gas meter dial continues to go around. $$$$$ Click... Click... Click... 
NEW ANGLE 
The girls leaning against the car. Adele watches Carrie take a drag on her cigarette. 
ADELE I used to smoke before I met Early. But he broke me of that. 
Her remark gets Carrie's attention. 
CARRIE Broke you? 
ON EARLY 
He watches the Fat Man inside the office. 
EARLY'S POV - EXT./INT. GAS STATION 
The Fat Man pays THE ATTENDANT for gas and is handed the restroom key. 
EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND 
Brian walks to the front of the Lincoln. He passes Carrie and Adele... 
ADELE Early don't think women should smoke or curse or drink liquor. 
CARRIE So you don't do any of those things. 
Carrie takes a quick look to the mini-market. She's lost sight of Early. 
ADELE Better not, or Early'd whip me. 
CARRIE (back to Adele) He whips you? 
INT./EXT. BATHROOM 
The Fat Man turns the key and enters the bathroom. The door starts to swing shut behind him, but... 
TWO FINGERS catch it before it does. 
ADELE (O.S.) Only when I deserve it. 
EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND 
Brian lifts the hood of the Lincoln... Reaches for the radiator cap. 
INT. BATHROOM 
The Fat Man is standing at the urinal. He has a ureterostomy bag he's emptying, when... 
Early's hand hits the blow dryer. A whirring sound fills the room. The Fat Man turns his head. Early lunges at him from behind, yanks his head back and rips a switchblade across his throat! 
EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND - CU 
A BLAST of steam from the radiator startles Brian! 
INT. BATHROOM 
The Fat Man clutches at his throat. Sees the blood on his palms. He looks up in shock. Early pounds the man's head into the wall. 
EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND 
Brian checking the oil, pulls out the dip stick. 
NEW ANGLE: CU 
Black oil runs down the metal blade. 
INT. BATHROOM 
The Fat Man falls to his knees against the urinal. His hand grasping the lever. The urinal flushes. Water flows. The Fat Man's blood mixes with it. The urinal overflows. The blood tinged water spills onto the white tile floor. Early pries the dead man's fist off the lever. 
EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND 
Brian slams the Lincoln's hood shut. 
INT. BATHROOM 
Early struggles to turn the fat corpse over. 
EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND 
Brian steps up to the gas nozzle and pulls it out of the car. 
INT. BATHROOM 
Early reaches in the dead man's pocket and removes his money clip. 
ADELE (to Carrie) You lose! 
BRIAN (to Early) I suppose anything's possible. 
Brian puts one leg across the other and goes back to his notes. 
NEW ANGLE: CLOSE UP BRIAN'S SHOE 
Revealing... the blood encrusted toe of his shoe. 
NEW ANGLE: CU ON EARLY 
EARLY You ever play any pool Bri'? 
EARLY'S POV 
Up ahead a HONKY TONK BAR with a large sign "POOL TABLES, BOWLING & MUSIC" 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD 
The Lincoln passes by the LARGE SIGN. 
BRIAN (O.S.) I can hold my own... 
EXT. MOTEL - DUSK 
A high angle looks down on the modest cluster of rooms below. The motel sign pulses erratically in foreground. Moths flicker about the light. 
CLOSER 
The Lincoln is parked in front of Brian and Carrie's room. The horn honks. Early is behind the wheel, engine running. Brian steps out of the motel room. 
CARRIE (O.S.) Hey Minnesota Fats! 
Carrie appears at the door holding her camera. 
CARRIE (sarcastic) Don't forget your key. 
She hands Brian the key. 
BRIAN Why'd I open my big mouth? 
Brian takes the key and walks to the car. 
Carrie sees Adele standing outside her door. Brian enters the Lincoln. 
CARRIE (to Adele) Why didn't you go with them? 
The Lincoln pulls away. 
ADELE I told you how Early feels 'bout a woman drinking. 
CARRIE How'd you meet Early? 
Carrie swings the camera around to Adele, and snaps off a shot. 
ADELE (grins) I was hitchhiking' one day and he picked me up. At first I wasn't gonna get in on account of his car was in such sorry shape. I said, "I ain't never seen a white man drivin' a car like this." 
Carrie snaps another shot of Adele. Every once in a while Adele feels like she should be "posing" for the shots that Carrie's taking of her. So, occasionally, as she carries on her conversation with Carrie, she does. 
CARRIE'S POV THRU CAMERA 
ADELE (continues) An' he said right back, "You shouldn't judge by appearances little lady... this vehicle might just be a flying saucer disguised as a car, for all you know." 
CARRIE'S POV THRU CAMERA - AS SHE ZOOMS IN TIGHTER ON ADELE 
ADELE Well, I got in and we got to talkin', and the next thing I know, I'd moved in with him in this old trailer. (beat) Hey! Wouldn't it be something if we all ended up sharing a house together in California? 
ON CARRIE 
She lowers the camera from her eye and studies Adele. 
CARRIE You know I can fix that haircut for you, if you want? 
ADELE You can? 
EXT. BOWLING ALLEY BAR - NIGHT 
A nondescript "joint" on the outskirts of town. American cars. American pickup trucks parked outside. The Lincoln pulls into foreground and parks. Early gets out of the Lincoln and looks around. 
EARLY I wonder if there's any "doors" out here? 
Brian exits the Lincoln and looks at Early questioning. 
EARLY You know... "openings" to other dimensions. (pause) I read there are a lot of them out West, mostly in the desert. They say if you know what you're doing, you can travel anywhere in the Universe in a matter of seconds. Wouldn't that come in handy? 
Brian looks at him blankly. He can't think of a thing to say in response. Early walks toward the entrance of the bar. Brian joins him. 
BRIAN By the way, I'm not much of a pool player. 
EARLY Shit, it ain't hard to play pool. I can teach you everything ya need ta know. 
BRIAN Yeah? 
EARLY Hell yeah! I'll even spot ya a few points first game. 
NEW ANGLE ON BRIAN 
He watches the waitress disappear into the crowd, then turns to find the Large Young Cracker in his face! 
YOUNG CRACKER What did you say to her city boy! 
The Young Cracker is obviously very drunk. 
BRIAN Nothing, I jus... 
YOUNG CRACKER (cuts him off) What's a jism gargling cum drunk fairy like you looking at a pretty girl like that for anyway? 
The Young Cracker doesn't notice Early return from the bathroom. He moves in next to Brian. Early is relaxed and nonchalant as he looks over the Young Cracker. He leans closer to Brian. 
EARLY (matter of factly) You'd better hit him first Bri', 'cos it's comin'. 
With his eyes on Brian, Early grabs a beer. Brian is scared, and confused, with one ear and one eye on the Young Cracker, the other on Early. 
YOUNG CRACKER This yur' boyfriend? 
BRIAN (dumbfounded) What? 
EARLY Hit him. 
Early looks at the beer. 
EARLY (angry) Bri' this shit ain't Lucky Lager! 
Early takes a swig off the beer, grimaces and sprays it out. It hits the Young Cracker. The Cracker looks down at his shirt in shock. Early is oblivious. 
YOUNG CRACKER (to Early) Hey Asshole! 
Brian is frozen, confused, doesn't know who to address. Early continues to ignore the Young Cracker. 
BRIAN They don't stock it here Early. 
YOUNG CRACKER (to Early, furious) Why you fuckin'... 
The Young Cracker moves to hit Early. Early swiftly smashes his beer bottle into the oncoming face. The Young Cracker doubles over clutching his face in agony. Early kicks him in the face, sending the Young Cracker to the ground. Early finishes him off with several more kicks from his heavy work boots. 
Two large tough guys approach Early and Brian. Brian's heart racing, Early cool as a cucumber. Instead of taking on Early, they stop, reach down and drag the unconscious man away. The waitress returns to their table. 
WAITRESS Sorry about that, he's always causing trouble. 
She sets down two beers and two shots, doubles. 
WAITRESS These are on the house. 
OMITTED 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
INT. CARRIE AND BRIAN'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Carrie and Adele split the last bottle of beer between them. They are sitting on the floor and Adele has Carrie's foot in her lap. She's painting Carrie's toenails bright red. Neither of them is feeling any pain. 
ADELE My momma's a beautician. Guess that's where I get it from. She wouldn't hear of my moving in with Early... on account of his just getting out of jail and all. Ain't seen her in nearly a year now. I wish she'd call me, just once. 
CARRIE (interrupting) What's Early been in jail for? 
ADELE (reluctantly) Carryin' a gun. 
CARRIE ...Anything else? 
ADELE An' resistin' arrest... At least that's what the Police said. 
CARRIE Jeez... Adele! 
Adele realizes she has said too much, looks at her watch. 
ADELE I'd better be goin'. It's late. 
Adele hastily weaves her way out the door. 
CARRIE Great. 
Carrie stares down at her feet. Red toenails. Cottonballs between the toes. 
OMITTED 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
EXT. THE BOWLING ALLEY BAR 
Early and Brian exit the bar. They make their way to the Lincoln. On the way... 
EARLY Got to see a man about a mule. 
Brian looks at Early, doesn't understand. 
EARLY Gotta take a piss. 
Early branches off behind the car. 
EARLY Any reebs left in the back seat? 
BRIAN (sarcastically) Of course! The accent, the clothes, and those table manners!... He's got to be a mass murderer! (pause) What else could he be? 
He switches off the bathroom light, steps out of the doorway, and begins to pull his jeans off. Carrie climbs into bed. 
BRIAN You know, it wouldn't even surprise me if he turned out to be... a Republican! 
Brian tosses his jeans and moves toward the bed. Carrie switches off the the only light in the room. In the dark, we hear a thud as Brian trips over a chair. 
BRIAN Goddamnit!... my fucking toe! 
EXT. BRIAN AND CARRIE'S MOTEL ROOM - A MOMENT LATER 
Carrie leaves the motel room, ice bucket in hand. 
CARRIE (to Brian inside room) Try not to lose consciousness 'til I get back. 
EXT. MOTEL CORRIDOR 
At the far end of a narrow hallway, Carrie finds an ice machine rumbling away noisily. The only illumination, a single fluorescent light bulb, hangs suspended above it. 
AT THE ICE MACHINE 
With her arm buried inside the ice machine, Carrie scavenges for what little ice there is... when, out of the corner of her eye, she notices... 
SOMEONE standing at the other end of the corridor. The silhouette of a man. 
Carrie stops. Her eyes scan the claustrophobic hallway for another way out. There is none. 
She tries to ignore the situation. Grabs another handful of ice cubes. The man approaches. Carrie stops again. Her mind races. The man's face slowly becomes visible as he nears the fluorescent light. It's Early. 
EARLY Ain't you done enough drinking for tonight? 
CARRIE ...Brian hurt his foot. 
Early reaches past her into the ice machine and grabs a solitary cube. He puts it in his mouth, sucks on it. His torso is drenched in sweat. He catches Carrie staring at him. 
EARLY Sometimes... Don't know why it is... I get so hot I can't stand it. I just start sweating like a dog. You ever get like that? 
CARRIE (tenuous) No. 
Early spits the ice cube back into his hand. He presses it against the back of his neck. 
EARLY I can feel it start to run down my neck... (he turns his back to show her) ...and down my back... right into my pants. 
Carrie follows a bead of ice water as it slides down between his shoulder blades and along his back. 
EARLY ...and everything starts stickin' together... keeps running down the back of my legs like two rivers racin' for my boots, see who gets there first. 
He snaps a look back to Carrie and finds her looking at his ass. She diverts her glance. 
EARLY You never get that hot, huh? 
Carrie shakes her head no. Early looks in his hand to see that his ice cube has melted. 
CARRIE I gotta get back before this ice melts. 
Carrie tries to slip past him. He reaches back into the machine, momentarily blocking her exit. He grabs another ice cube. His face only inches from hers. 
EARLY ...never? 
CARRIE No, never. Excuse me. 
He pops the ice cube in his mouth and lets her pass. 
EARLY You like Skynard? 
No response, Early chews up the ice cube. 
OMITTED 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
EXT. LINCOLN LEAVING THE MOTEL - NEXT MORNING 
The car crawls out of the parking lot. 
INT. LINCOLN 
Carrie is driving. Brian is contending with a major hangover. There is still a silent tension between Brian and Carrie from the argument the night before. Early is in the back with Adele. Brian moves his head and moans. 
ADELE My daddy always took sauerkraut juice and tobasco sauce for a hangover, mixed in one egg not two, and some tomato juice... 
From the front seat, Brian's hand springs up in a desperate plea for an end to Adele's colorful description. 
BRIAN I'm okay, thanks. 
Brian rolls down his window for some fresh air, as the car pulls away. 
EXT. LINCOLN ON HIGHWAY - MOMENTS LATER 
THE CAR IS HEADING DOWN A COUNTRY ROAD. 
INT. LINCOLN 
Carrie glances over at Brian, who is now asleep next to her. She looks up into her rear-view mirror... 
ATTENDANT Not so good. You sure you have to? 
EARLY I don't know. Wish I did. 
CARRIE Early, just think... 
EARLY Shut your mouth. 
INT. LINCOLN 
Adele opens the door on the driver's side looking scared. Brian is in the passenger seat. He's looking in the glove compartment for a map. The .45 automatic Early gave Brian is clearly visible. Adele stares at it. 
BRIAN Adele, what are you doing back here? 
Adele gets in and starts looking under the seats. 
ADELE ...Lost my purse... Could you help me look for it? It's probably under the seat. 
INT. GAS STATION 
The Attendant is reaching up, handing Early the money from his pockets. Carrie is seated in front of him. 
EARLY Where you from Walter? 
ATTENDANT (nervous shake) Vernon, Florida. 
EARLY Never heard of it, any huntin'? 
ATTENDANT Turkey mostly. 
EARLY Turkey's are real smart. Smarter than most people think... 
Early rips the phone out of the wall. 
EARLY Tell you what Walter, you lie down there now... You make sure you stay put for a while after we leave... Okay? 
The attendant nods yes. 
ATTENDANT ...Mind if I hold that Bible? 
EARLY What do you need a Bible for? 
The attendant has no response. 
EARLY You think I'm goin' to kill you. Well that'd make me a liar then wouldn't it? 
ATTENDANT No sir. 
Early takes the Bible off the desk and hands it down to the Attendant. 
EARLY Here you go. 
The frightened young man lies face down on his stomach clutching the Bible and starts to pray. 
On the counter next to him Early notices a large stuffed "happy face" display. "Free with every 20 gallon purchase." 
He grabs one, stares at its face curiously. 
EARLY (mumbles to himself) I wonder if Adele would like one of these? (beat) Nah... 
Suddenly... He puts the barrel of the gun between the "happy face" eyes... Points it at the back of the attendant's head. 
Carrie begins to scream. Early pulls the trigger. 
The blast explodes the "happy face" and rips into the back of the Attendant's head, killing him. 
INT. LINCOLN - SIMULTANEOUSLY 
A thunderous crackle of lightning all but masks the gunshot. The rain starts pouring down. 
BRIAN What was that? 
Adele stares blankly back. 
INT. GAS STATION 
The room fills with billowing down stuffing. As the stuffing floats to the floor it sticks to their hair, skin and clothes... 
EARLY (surprised at the feathers) What the fuck! 
INT. LINCOLN 
Brian opens the door to leave. 
EXT. GAS STATION 
Early drags Carrie out of the office toward the car. Brian sees them running toward the car. They spill into the back seat. Brian sees Carrie is upset. 
BRIAN Carrie, what's wrong? (to Early) Early, we went through this already, you have to leave. 
From the back seat Early wipes some more feathers from his face, then points the Attendant's gun at Brian's head. 
EARLY (spits out a feather) 'Fraid not Bri'... Drive Adele. 
Adele starts the car. She pulls out of the station and into the rainstorm. 
Brian shakes his head. 
BRIAN None. 
ON CARRIE 
In quiet desperation, she raises her arm to her lips... and blows the solitary blood tinged reminder away. 
ON BRIAN AND EARLY 
Early stares at Brian. 
EARLY ...Well then, that's how many I killed. 
BRIAN (unconvincingly) If you say so. 
EARLY Damn right I do. 
ON ADELE 
Adele watches the tiny down feather drift to the floor. 
ON BRIAN AND EARLY 
Early picks up a different container and gulps some down. After a moment... 
EARLY You never killed anyone have you Bri'? 
Brian shakes his head no. 
EARLY You never even seen anybody killed, right? 
Brian stops eating and looks at Early. 
BRIAN What are you getting at? 
Early leans closer to him. 
EARLY You wanna tell me how'n the hell you gonna write a book 'bout somethin' you don't know nothin' 'bout? 
Eye to eye, the two men stare at one another. Brian has no answer. 
EARLY Ya see what I'm sayin'? (beat) Ha! 
BRIAN (nervously mimes the same) ...Ha. 
Early goes back to gulping down his dinner. This time he gets a spicy one. 
EARLY (a nod toward the carry out container) ...watch out for that stuff, it bites. 
Brian gazes at the cluster of Chinese carry-out food containers. An ironic reminder of an earlier conversation. He lets out a weak ironic laugh. 
BRIAN (recollecting to himself) ...way too much MSG. 
EXT. LINCOLN - TRAVELING - DAY 
INT. LINCOLN DRIVING DOWN BACKROADS - DAY 
Early is behind the wheel, not a care in the world. Adele sits beside him playing with her camera. She turns and aims the camera at Brian and Carrie in the back seat, their hands are bound. 
ADELE Smile. 
Neither makes any attempt at smiling. Adele snaps their photo anyway. In the front seat, she sits quietly for a moment then leans over to Early and whispers something to him. 
EARLY No way. I guarantee you he was breathing when I walked outta there. 
Adele sits back quietly. Carrie wants to speak but doesn't. 
EARLY Hey... Ain't we getting near the next murder site... Bri? 
BRIAN Forget about it, doesn't matter. 
EARLY Hell it don't... (beat) ...Hand me Brian's map there Adele. One day I'm gonna pass some store and see your book in the window. Me and Adele gonna buy a copy for our coffee table. 
NEW ANGLE 
Carrie silently fuming in the back seat. Brian stares at the rope that binds his wrists. 
EXT. OLD DESERTED MINE AREA - LATER THAT DAY 
The Lincoln drives down the dirt access road and stops. They all get out, Early unties Brian and Carrie. 
EARLY Figured your hands might be starting to hurt. 
Early looks down the hill to the old mine building. 
EARLY Let's have a look. You girls coming? 
Carrie's steely gaze answers Early's question. 
ADELE Can I just wait here? 
Early leans into the car and picks up Adele's camera. 
EARLY Don't worry Bri', I'll take the pictures. (to Adele, with a kiss to her cheek) ...you stay here with Carrie. (to Carrie) You run off... Bri' pays the price. Karma, remember? 
EARLY You want to know about my daddy, I'll tell you about my daddy, Bri... 
EXT. LINCOLN 
Carrie walks over to Adele at the car. Adele doesn't miss a beat with her yoyo. 
CARRIE Adele, listen to me... Early's sick; he should be in a hospital. 
Adele screws up the trick. She pulls the yoyo off her finger and throws it in the back seat. She leans into the front seat and cranks the radio up to the max. Closing her eyes, she begins moving to the music, and tries to ignore Carrie. 
CARRIE (shouting over the music) The police are after him, he's a murderer! 
ADELE (uncertain) ...That's not true. 
CARRIE (shouting) What? 
ADELE (shouting back) That's not true! 
NEW ANGLE 
A POLICE CAR pulls into frame, unnoticed by Carrie and Adele in the background. 
INT. POLICE CAR 
MALE OFFICER Let's take a look. 
FEMALE OFFICER I'll call in the plate. 
The Male Officer exits, unlocking his holster. The Female Officer picks up the police radio and calls in the license plate number. 
EXT. LINCOLN NEAR MINE AREA 
The radio is blaring. Adele continues to dance despite Carrie's pleas. 
CARRIE (shouting) ...I wouldn't lie to you, Adele. . . I saw him kill that man. 
ADELE (defensive) Early didn't kill nobody, he wouldn't do that. I don't know why you're saying those things. You ain't my friend. 
With that, Adele stops her dancing and turns away from Carrie... To see the Male Officer walking toward them. 
ADELE Please don't say anything Carrie. 
The Male Officer continues toward them. It looks like he's talking to them... but his voice is inaudible under the deafening radio. 
NEW ANGLE: FAVORING THE TWO POLICE OFFICERS 
The Female Officer sticks her head out of the police car and yells to her partner. He turns to listen. 
FEMALE OFFICER We got a match, I'll call for back up. 
As the Male Officer turns back, he sees Adele reach into the front seat of the Lincoln. The Male Officer draws his revolver and levels it at Adele. 
NEW ANGLE: FAVORING ADELE AND CARRIE 
Click! Adele shuts the radio off, total silence. As Adele leans back out of the car, she turns, facing directly into the barrel of the Male Officer's gun. 
MALE OFFICER All right ladies, I want both of you to slowly step away from the ca... 
BANG! A single gunshot rings out! The Male Officer jerks back and falls to the ground. Adele screams! Carrie whips a panicked glance around and sees... Early running toward them. Brian, bewildered, follows behind. 
BRIAN'S POV (RUNNING) 
Ahead of him, he watches Early race past the wounded Male Officer. He kicks the Officer's revolver out of reach and rushes toward the police car. 
Early fires his gun repeatedly as he charges the car! 
The Female Officer pulls her gun and starts to get out of the car, when... a shot shatters the windshield hitting her in the chest. She collapses back onto the seat. 
ON BRIAN 
He stops at the sight of the wounded Male Officer. Shocked, he watches the man writhing in pain. His hands clutching his crotch. His blood oozes into the dirt. 
Early approaches the police car. He sees the dead cop and hears the radio dispatcher. 
POLICE RADIO Officer needs help, shots fired, six Adam five, one eighty-seven, suspects wanted in multiple murders. Location unknown, last seen... 
Brian is not sure what to do. He looks around... sees the Officer's handgun lying in the dirt. He takes a step toward it, when... another gunshot rings out! Brian stops. Looks to the police car. He sees Early standing there, smoke belching from the dashboard... the police radio is dead. 
Early walks back toward Brian and the others. He steps over to the injured Male Officer on the ground. 
EARLY Tell me that don't hurt. 
Early picks up the wounded cop's gun. He hands it to Brian as he trains the .45 automatic at Brian's chest. 
EARLY Shoot him. You'll be doing him a favor. 
Brian looks to Early in disbelief. 
OMITTED 
BRIAN No, no, I can't. 
Early cocks the pistol and pushes the barrel to Brian's head. Brian looks down at the wounded cop who is writhing in pain. 
EARLY (No,) It's the answer to all them questions of yers. 
Of Early and Carrie as they are let into the house. 
INT. LINCOLN 
Adele is still rambling on about her interest in cacti. 
ADELE ...There ain't nothin' can kill 'em. They can live for two even three hundred years. 
BRIAN Adele for god sake please lis... 
ADELE (she glances over to Brian) There ain't nothing we could do. Once Early sets his mind on somethin', well thats the end of that. 
Adele drifts back to the cacti. 
INT. MUSGRAVE LIVING ROOM - A LITTLE LATER 
CLOSE ON A PORCELAIN CACTUS 
One of many we now reveal to be atop a fireplace mantle. Adele leans in against the mantle and scrutinizes the cactus. 
Carrie and Brian sit on the floor, back to back, their arms bound around the leg of a piano by a pair of police handcuffs. Mrs. Musgrave is standing nearby. She's overwhelmed. Numb. She pours herself a glass of bourbon. 
MRS. MUSGRAVE (to herself) It's just like in that dream I had. If only I had seen their faces. 
She takes her drink and sits down on the couch nearby. Adele drops down quietly on the chair next to her. 
ADELE (tries to cheer Mrs. Musgrave up) You've got beautiful cactuses here, I just love 'em. My momma used to keep a garden. 
Mrs. Musgrave downs most of her drink with the first try. Distressed, her head slumps down. 
EARLY (O.S.) (from the kitchen) Hey Bri... You ever stop to think that if you switched the two letters in your name... (entering the room) ...it would spell Brain. 
Early, his pistol wedged in his belt, appears from the kitchen eating a sandwich. Between bites... He walks over and rips the phone out of the wall unit. He glimpses Mrs. Musgrave. 
EARLY What's wrong with her? 
ADELE (sorry for her) She had a dream that somethin' like this was gonna happen. 
Early notices the glass of bourbon in her trembling hands. He steps over to her and takes the glass away. 
EARLY I'll bet she did. 
He sets the glass down next to a recent picture of Mrs. Musgrave and an ELDERLY MAN with silver hair. 
EARLY Where's your husband? 
MRS. MUSGRAVE (lying) ...I'm a widow. 
Early looks at her, he doesn't believe her. 
EXT. MUSGRAVE HOUSE - NIGHT 
Everything is quiet beneath the star studded sky. The same elderly man pictured with Mrs. Musgrave is studying the sky through a powerful telescope. MR. MUSGRAVE is an amateur astronomer. o.s. the SOUND of a door opening. Then footsteps. 
MR. MUSGRAVE (excited) Is that you Peaches? Come, you must see Saturn tonight. The rings are sensational! 
INT. STUDY - GLASS DISPLAY CASE 
Early leans into frame, staring at the display case. 
EARLY'S POV 
Inside of it is a four foot long replica of the first ATOMIC BOMB, "Fat Boy." Faded newspaper articles on the wall indicate Mr. Musgrave had something to do with the bomb's initial construction. An old photo on the bookshelf shows a much younger Mr. Musgrave in a '50's kitchen. He is laughing and embracing a '50's style female mannequin. 
MR. MUSGRAVE (O.S.) My oh my, this is quite rare, quite rare indeed. Come have a look... 
Early's eyes drift over to a set of golf clubs that sit in the corner of the room. 
MR MUSGRAVE'S POV - THROUGH TELESCOPE 
The planet Saturn and its glorious rings. 
MR. MUSGRAVE (O.S.) Peaches? 
OMITTED 
THWACK!! The planet turns into a blur of light... then blackness. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME TIME - ON BRIAN AND CARRIE 
Brian and Carrie are still cuffed to the piano, in the background we see Mrs. Musgrave and Adele looking out the window into the backyard. 
BRIAN (whispers to Carrie) You gotta talk to her. She looks up to you, she'll listen to you. 
CARRIE I tried talking to her at the mine. It didn't work. 
BRIAN Then try again, (it's our only chance.) 
EXT. HOUSE - LATER 
Early is leaning on a golf club looking through the telescope. 
ADELE (O.S.) Early? 
He pulls his eye away as Adele arrives. 
Early is indifferent and looks around. About a hundred yards away, barely visible through the growing sand storm, an old 1950's style building. 
INT. LINCOLN 
Early opens the back door. He grabs a box of supplies (some rope, a kerosene lamp etc.) 
EARLY Come on. 
Carrie slowly begins to respond. She slides across the front seat. 
NEW ANGLE: CLOSE ON THE INSTRUMENT PANEL 
Carrie's hand crosses frame and pulls out a knob on the dash. 
EXT. DESERT - LATE AFTERNOON 
The sun is starting to set behind a distant mountain range. In the far distance... The pickup truck, revealed by its trail of dust, crosses the vast landscape. 
EXT. '50'S DESERT HOUSE 
Early and Carrie struggle through the growing sand storm. Carrie throws a last curious glance back to the Lincoln as they reach the front door. 
INT. '50'S DESERT HOUSE 
The front door is kicked open. Early enters the room with Carrie in tow. 
CLOSE ON EARLY 
He looks around the room... A smile forms on his face. 
EARLY Howdy, my name's Early Grayce and this is my girl Carrie. I hope you don't mind us bargin' in like this but a... we was on our way to California when our car broke down, and... 
EARLY'S POV (AS HE EXPLAINS) 
A living room fully decorated in '50's furniture. Sand covers everything... Including... 
A FAMILY OF FOUR MANNEQUINS placed around the room: The father sits in front of the TV... The mother (the same mannequin as in Mr. Musgrave's old picture) is toppled over a kitchen counter... The little girl is seated at a table... The little boy is playing with his toy plane on the floor. 
EARLY (O.S.) Well... it's gettin' pretty rough out there, so if it's all the same to you, we'll be staying the night. 
EXT. '50'S HOUSE 
Early slams the front door shut. 
CAMERA PULLS AWAY - REVEALING 
The building is a single story '50's home of extremely cheap construction. It's in bad condition. 
EXT. DESERT - THE SMASHED WOODEN GATE 
The last rays of the setting sun reveal the pickup truck heading toward the smashed remains of the wooden gate. The pickup truck hurtles through the opening left by the Lincoln. 
NEW ANGLE 
On a collapsed old wooden sign. It lies on the ground a few feet away from the gate posts. 
"DREAMLAND" - NUCLEAR TEST RANGE DANGER - KEEP OUT 
INT. '50'S DESERT HOUSE - NIGHT 
Wind and sand blow freely through the remains of the windows. A solitary kerosene lamp dimly illuminates the living room area. Its flickering light finds... Early, stripped to the waist, crouched over the broken TV set. He fidgets with the knobs. Then the mangled rabbit ears antenna. Carrie sits on some blankets in the corner next to the couch. She's scared to death. Her eyes scan the battered room. Debris everywhere. 
Amidst all of it, Carrie's erotic photographs have been placed about the room. 
ON EARLY 
Still unable to get the TV to work, he smacks it a good one on the side. 
With the smack!... Carrie whips her look back toward Early... To find he's lost interest in the TV. He turns toward Carrie. Stares at her for a moment. Then with a hint of a smile, he begins to move toward her. The time has arrived. 
He reaches down, grabs her by the shirt and pulls her to her feet. Carrie doesn't resist. He's rough with her as he kisses her on the lips. Carrie pulls her mouth away from his. She seems confused, unsure of her feelings. Early watches her, until her eyes come back to his. Then she steps forward crowding her body against his, as she slips one hand around his neck and kisses him deep and hard... 
Suddenly Early breaks the kiss and backhands Carrie hard across the face. She lands on the floor several feet away, the palm of her right hand is bleeding. 
Early looks down to his waist to find a large piece of glass protruding from his side. 
He pulls the glass shard out, blood drips down his side and onto his jeans. 
Carrie gets up and races into the back bedroom, frantically looking for a way out, there is none. On the bed the two adult mannequins now lie naked. They have been placed, intertwined in a grotesque sexual position. 
Carrie turns and rushes back toward the door. Early intercepts her and throws a punch to her stomach, which doubles her over. Then Early sends a second punch to her face, she stumbles backward, landing onto the bed amongst the mannequins. Early begins undoing his belt. 
EARLY (friendly) You'll like it... 
A violent gust of wind sends several of the erotic photos swirling through the air. One of the photos whips across Early's chest. The wind holds it there momentarily. 
EARLY Not a lot, but you'll like it. 
Early peels Carrie's photo off him, the blood from his wound covers the back of it. He slaps it against the nearest wall. It sticks. He walks toward her. 
INT. PICKUP TRUCK - BRIAN'S POV 
The high winds have turned into a full fledged sandstorm. Brian is still driving dangerously fast. The dim lights of the old pickup illuminate only a short stretch of dirt road ahead and the swirling sand. 
He passes a road sign: 'DEVASTATION DRIVE' 
