Kids 
Harmony Korine 
BLACK SCREEN 
The very loud sound of people having sex. The sounds of deep moaning and sexual huffs and puffs. After a few seconds the sound grows even louder. It should sound as if the two people are fucking into a microphone. The sounds should be painful and raw. 
GIRL (O.S.) Oh yes, oh yes, oh yes, oh yes. 
INT. BEDROOM - DAY 
The face of a very pretty young girl with long blond hair. Her face is inches from the CAMERA, the CAMERA is above her, looking down, almost like the POV of the person she's having sex with. She id breathing extremely heavily; her face is red-hot and sweaty. Every time she moves, she makes a deep moaning noise. She looks likes she's on the verge of pain and ecstasy. 
GIRL Oh yes, Telly it hurts, oh yes, oh yes, please Telly, Telly. 
The CAMERA backs up to reveal Telly having sex with the girl. Telly is seventeen years old. He is short, dirty, slightly muscular, he has an interesting face, he is a street-smart punk, He is biting his bottom lip, the two of them are sweating like mad, the sound of the bed post smashing against the wall combines with the rhythmical moaning of the two. 
RAPID FADE TO BLACK 
BACK IN TIME - BEFORE THEY HAD SEX 
Telly is in bed with the girl. The two of them are sitting up in the big bed that is raised high of the ground. Telly is naked except for a tight pair of white underwater. He is sitting above the blankets with his legs spread apart. The girl is partially covered, she is wearing a black bra, one of her nipples is poking through. The two of them are very sweaty, they both have messed up hair, there is a great feeling of heat and wetness. 
The windows to her room are open, the sound of outside of outside traffic is circulating. There is a small fan on her dresser that is blowing from side to side. Socks, shirts, and pants are lying on her hard wood floor. The room is neat except for the clothing. A large poster of the Beastie Boys hangs on the wall. She has many stuffed animals on her bed and dresser drawer, she also has a small dollhouse in the corner. 
Telly and the girl are looking at each other. 
The girl speaks slowly and softly, she has a very innocent beauty about her. 
TELLY You know what I want to do? 
GIRL Yeah. 
TELLY What do I want to do? 
GIRL You want to fuck me. But you can't fuck me. 
TELLY (smiling) Why? 
GIRL Because, you know why. You know. 
TELLY Because your a virgin? 
GIRL Because I'm a virgin and I don't want no baby. 
TELLY You think I want a baby? When you're with me, you don't have to worry about that kinda stuff. 
GIRL Why is that? 
TELLY Because I like you. I think you're beautiful. I think if we fucked you would love it. You wouldn't even believe it. 
GIRL I wouldn't believe it? 
TELLY I don't know. I just think that you would love it. 
GIRL But, I don't know. I'm just scared that things would change. Between us. 
TELLY What things? I'm telling you, nothing's going to change. (he begins to caress her cheek and hair) I want to make you happy. That's all. 
Telly scoots up to the girl and starts to kiss her. He sticks his tongue in her mouth. They kiss. 
TELLY (whispering) You know it won't hurt. I'll be gentle. I promise. 
GIRL (whispering) Do you care about me? 
TELLY (whispering) Of course I do. 
TELLY Well it took me longer than I thought it would take. It took like 15 minutes to talk her into it. But once it was on, we fucked for a good half an hour. I had to keep taking it out and putting it back in. It hurts the first time. 
CASPER Yeah. 
TELLY But then when she got into it. She really got into it. It was good. 
CASPER How did she smell? Did her puss stink? 
Telly puts his four fingers together and then puts his hand in front of Caper's nose. 
TELLY Take a whiff. 
Casper takes a huge whiff, the snot in his nose makes a loud sound as he smells Telly's fingers. 
CASPER Oh man, it smells like butterscotch. 
TELLY Hell's yeah. She was so clean. 
CASPER Oh man, that's the best. 
TELLY You could tell she took care of herself. She had all these powders and creams in her bathroom. 
CASPER Let me smell it again. 
Telly lifts his fingers once again, as Casper breathes in the odor. 
CASPER That's why virgins are the best. I love that smell. 
As they walk down the street, joggers, men in business suits with briefcases, ambulances, and women with baby carriages all pass by. 
TELLY You know what else? 
CASPER What? 
TELLY I can tell that she had just entered puberty. 
CASPER How? 
TELLY Well, I was flipping through a picture book of her and her family, right. 
CASPER Right. 
TELLY And there was this picture of her painting Easter eggs or something. And I said, you were cut when you were little. 
CASPER Yeah. 
TELLY And she goes, yeah that picture was taken less than a year ago. I look younger without my makeup. 
Casper starts to crack up. 
TELLY And I looked at her, and thought to myself Oh my god, this girl is a baby. 
CASPER Yeah. 
TELLY And for a second I felt a little bit guilty. You know, because she's young and all. And then I was like, oh shit, that turns me on. I wanna fuck this little baby girl. 
They both laugh. 
CASPER Fuckin perverted bastard. 
They continue to laugh and walk. 
TELLY I'm telling you Casper. I think I'm getting addicted to that shit. 
CASPER To what? Virgins? 
TELLY Yeah. It's like all I think about now. Not just that, it's like lately during sex, I start dreaming about these complex fantasies. 
CASPER It's no big deal, right? 
TELLY Right. But when you deflower a girl, that's it. You did it. You were the one. No one else can ever do it. 
CASPER Yeah. The way I see it. My outlook on the this situation is. (they both start laughing) It's like getting fame, you know what I'm saying. It's like, if you died tomorrow, and fifty years from now all the virgins you fucked are gonna remember you because you were their first. 
TELLY Yep. 
CASPER They're gonna tell their grand kids. (mimicking an old lady) That Telly. He sure was good in the sack! 
The two of them are laughing, their conversation has gotten them very excited. 
They walk in front of a Korean grocery. The grocery has a small outdoor produce section, juice, fruit, sodas, etc. A KOREAN GUY with flip-flops and headphones is sitting on a tall wooden stool. 
TELLY You thirsty? 
CASPER Yeah, I feel dehydrated. 
TELLY You got any money? 
CASPER Three pennies and a ball of lint. 
TELLY You down with the boost? 
CASPER (whispers) Unzip my pack, yo. 
He turns around and Telly quickly unzips his backpack. 
INT. KOREAN GROCERY - DAY 
The grocery is your basic traditional market with a lunch buffet. Behind the cash register is a middle-aged KOREAN MAN. He is watching a small black and white television set. 
The two boys enter. 
Casper walks straight to the back where they keep the beer. 
Telly circles the buffet and then walks up to the cash register. 
TELLY Uh, let's see here, would you happen to have diss digg? 
KOREAN STORE OWNER Whah? 
TELLY Diss digg. I'm curious if you have it? 
KOREAN STORE OWNER Whah is dissdee? 
Casper is going through the beer section. He pulls out two 40oz. bottles of and puts them on the floor. 
TELLY Diss digg, diss digg, diss digg. 
KOREAN STORE OWNER I no understand you. Maybe crazy. 
A round mirror is reflecting Casper putting the bottles into his backpack. 
TELLY I'll ask you one last time. Do you have diss digg? 
KOREAN STORE OWNER Whah you say? Dissdee? 
Casper runs up to the counter and grabs his crotch. 
CASPER He said This Dick, mutha fucka! Can't you understand English? 
The two of them both run out the door. 
Telly taps the Korean man who is sitting outside. The man looks in the opposite direction while Casper grabs two peaches and puts them into his pocket. 
The two boys run off. 
There are about ten guys in the apartment. There is almost no furniture, just two white couches and a few plants in the corner. There is a big TV in the center of the floor. A Nintendo with several wires is hooked up to it. There are various games spread out. A couple of boys are huddled around the game, as they watch the guy play, they breathe in the wip-it's. 
The boys are all young and spread out. There are people lying on the couch, on the floor, on the phone, in the kitchen smoking pot and doing wip-its. They are all colors and sizes. 
Casper and Telly go to each person and greet them with a handshake. Some people they hug. They say "Was up," to everyone. 
They both sit down on the floor and continue to drink their beers. 
Paul sits down besides them. 
PAUL What are you guys doing? 
TELLY Nothing. We just wanted to come by and see what you were up to. 
PAUL You want a wip-it? 
TELLY Nah. 
CASPER Yeah. 
Paul puts his hand on his big pocket and gives Casper a cartridge. Casper breathes in the wip-it and then smiles really big. 
CASPER I love these shits. 
PAUL They're good for you. Vitamin C for the new generation. 
Paul hands Casper another cartridge. 
CASPER That's why I like 'em. They wake my brain up. 
Casper does the wip-it. 
STANLEY, a tall black kid with dreads, walks out of the kitchen. He has a cordless phone in his hand. Casper continues to do wip-it's. One after another. 
TELLY So, how many people live here now? 
PAUL I don't know, eight or nine. 
TELLY Where does everyone sleep? 
PAUL Everywhere. Fuckin flophouse. We're still short on the rent. If you want, you and Casper can move in. You guys can share the bathtub. 
STANLEY Yo Telly. Jennie says what's up. 
TELLY Jennie who? 
STANLEY Jennie. You know. 
CASPER That girl you boned last year. Remember? 
TELLY Man I haven't seen her in forever. What the fuck's she up to? 
INT. RUBY'S ROOM - DAY 
Five girls are sitting in a small room. They are smoking. They're all in a circle laughing. The girls are all good friends. A few of them have rings in their lips and eyebrows. A big dirty fish tank is on one of the bookshelves. 
Ruby is a nice looking girl, age 17. She is Spanish, her hair is slicked back, she chain-smokes. 
Jennie is a 15 year old high school sophomore. She is white. She is very pretty, with an uncommon touch of innocence about her. 
The next episode is going to jump-cut back and forth between Paul's apartment and Rubby's room. These scenes should be handheld. 
Ruby hangs up the phone. 
RUBY Telly says was up. 
JENNIE I knew he wouldn't want to speak to me. That dick. 
DIANE You know. 
JENNIE Yep. 
DIANE I don't give a fuck. I have sex and I like fucking. 
RUBY Hell yeah. I love. I love sex. 
JENNIE Foreplay. Foreplay. 
LINDA (smacks hands together) Yep. That's the best way. It's that boom boom boom. 
RUBY Right. You know it's not like... You know there's a difference between sex, making love, and fucking! 
LINDA Yep. 
RUBY Making love is like. 
LINDA Sweet. 
SUSAN Slow. 
RUBY It's grandmother style. 
Jennie is cracking up and pounding Ruby's back. 
LINDA Yeah. 
RUBY It's like... 
LINDA You know what it's like. It's like when you really love someone, it's like awww. 
RUBY Yeah. 
LINDA Its like. But it gets boring. It's boring. 
RUBY It's really slow. It's slow boring. 
SUSAN Yeah. 
RUBY It's very monotonous. 
LINDA Yeah. And sex is just like, yeah let's have sex, 
SUSAN It's like yeah whatever. But when you fuck. You wanna fuck that person. You're like ripping each other's hair out. Ooooh. 
She pulls her hair, everyone laughs. 
RUBY Right. You're like it's just this instinct. It's like this animal instinct is taking over you. It's like... 
JENNIE Passion... 
RUBY Boom!!! Boom!!! 
INT. PAUL'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Some of the guys are sitting in front of the couch doing wip-its. Casper is chewing on a microwave burrito and watching the guy next to him play Nintendo. He is blowing into the burrito. 
They are in the midst of a conversation. 
STANLEY Yeah, yeah, yeah! 
PAUL That's the one thing. They expect you to be so gentle, so kind... 
ZACK When most of time you just wanna be all. Pounding on that shit. 
STANLEY That would be the best if you could just be. Excuse me can I borrow your hole Miss? It'll only take a little while. I'll give it right back. 
SUSAN Yep. 
LINDA Because he can like climax you up to that... 
JENNIE ... Point. 
LINDA Yep. Where just one more move and you would be like crazy. 
She snaps her fingers. 
RUBY Yep. 
LINDA But then the sex gets into the way and you're like: What happened! What the hell happened?! 
RUBY Yeah it's the biggest disappointment! 
SUSAN Yeah. And it takes them either too long or too short to come. Have you ever had someone that took forever 
RUBY To come? 
SUSAN Yeah. I had sex with Jake, and it took him like an hour and a half. 
LINDA Yeah. The shit gets wacked. Fifteen minutes. 
RUBY Yeah. Fifteen minutes to a half an hour. Hard and deep. 
LINDA Me. I can only take it up to fifteen minutes. Cause I get bored. 
RUBY Yeah I get bored. 
LINDA I start thinking about what I'm gonna eat afterwards. 
SUSAN Yeah, eat. I got real thirsty too. 
Laughter. 
INT. PAUL'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Continued talking. 
Casper is playing the video game. He is playing with a great deal of intensity. 
CASPER You know what I notice? 
ZACK What? 
CASPER I notice that girls love to give head. It's like a secret pastime hobby for them. Or somethin'. 
STANLEY Some girls. 
CASPER All girls. They love it. I know. 
Casper's game finishes. 
CASPER (under his breath) I hate this game. 
TELLY No. Casper's right. Girls love it. They just act like they don't in front of their friends. 
PAUL Yeah. But when it's just you and them. That's like the first thing they go for. 
Casper starts a new game. 
CASPER I know. They love it. That's why girls live longer than guys. 'Cause sperm has vitamin C. 
INT. RUBY'S ROOM - DAY 
In the midst of their conversation. 
Continued talking. 
RUBY I've known the past of all the people I've fucked without a condom. Like I know one of the people got tested and was negative. 
LINDA Yeah. 
RUBY And I know that one of them fucked like two other girls, who were both virgins, so I knew he was safe. 
LINDA Yeah. 
RUBY And the other person I just fucked, which was a mistake. But I went to the clinic last week with Jennie. 
Jennie looks embarrassed. 
RUBY I made her get tested with me because I didn't want to go alone. 
LINDA Did they ask you a lot of questions? 
INT. TESTING CLINIC - DAY 
Ruby is sitting across from a BLACK NURSE. The nurse has a clipboard in her hand. She is sitting at a small desk that is cluttered with papers and pictures of her kids. The room is decorated on shades of bright yellow. There are pictures of clowns on the wall. There is a large paper diagram on the wall that traces, step by step, the process of inserting a condom. 
Ruby is chewing gum and tapping her feet. She scratches her elbow. 
The black nurse is very overweight; she talks with a strong New York accent. She sips a coffee mug that reads "I love Mom." 
BLACK NURSE How old you? 
RUBY 
INT. TESTING CLINIC - DAY 
Jennie is sitting across from a very skinny WHITE NURSE. The nurse has a clip board in her head. Spanish rock music is sleeping through the walls. A small desk fan is rotating back and forth. The room is dirty. 
Jennie is sitting in a chair. She looks very pretty and child-like. She is facing downward and her hair is falling into her face. 
Jennie speaks in a low voice. 
WHITE NURSE How old are you? 
JENNIE 
INT. TESTING CLINIC - DAY 
The black nurse scratches her scalp and it makes a noise. 
BLACK NURSE How many people have you had vaginal intercourse with? 
RUBY Umm. Altogether? 
BLACK NURSE Yes. Altogether. 
RUBY Hmm. I'd say eight, maybe nine. 
BLACK NURSE How many times have you gone unprotected? 
RUBY With four of them, I didn't use any kind of protection. Wait, maybe it was three. 
INT. TESTING CLINIC - DAY 
The white nurse scribbles something down. 
WHITE NURSE How many people have you had vaginal intercourse with? 
JENNIE One. 
WHITE NURSE Were you protected? 
Typical waiting room. Big sofas and chairs. A table is in the middle of the floor, magazines and pocketbooks. A water jug is in the corner. A ceiling fan is circling fast up above. 
An assortment of men and women of different races and colors. They look mainly middle class. Jennie and Ruby are the youngest people in the room. 
A man in a three-piece suit slowly walks by. Jennie tries to see his face but he is turned the wrong way. Ruby continues to talk. 
The same fat black nurse walks out with a clipboard. She begins to cough tremendously. 
RUBY ... I don't know, I think he's mad at me, but who cares... 
Ruby and Jennie stop talking and look at the black nurse. She is coughing uncontrollably. She looks like a large shaking figure. A skinny nurse walks by, pounds her on the back, and she stops coughing. 
The black nurse has a smile on her face, her eyes watery. She turns and looks at Ruby. 
BLACK NURSE Woowee! It must have been something I ate! (coughs then smiles) Ruby, follow me. 
Ruby stands up and looks at Jennie. Ruby crosses both her fingers and raises them in the air. 
RUBY Wish me luck. 
JENNIE Good luck. 
Ruby follows the black nurse. This should be one long shot, as Ruby follows the nurse through the hectic testing clinic. The two of them enter the same room as before. 
INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY 
The skinny white nurse picks up a folder with Jennie's name on it. She opens the door to the waiting room and looks at Jennie sitting down with her eyes closed. 
WHITE NURSE Jennie. 
Jennie stands up and smiles. She walks towards the door. 
INT. TESTING CLINIC - DAY 
Ruby is sitting down in a chair. The black nurse picks up a file from the back of the door. She opens it and smiles. 
BLACK NURSE (cough, pause) Well, girl. You tested negative for all sexually transmitted diseases and infections. 
RUBY Yes! 
BLACK NURSE You're clean. 
RUBY Oh my God. I can't tell you how nervous I've been. I couldn't sleep last night. 
BLACK NURSE Now you gotta be careful. 
The black nurse pulls out a bunch of pamphlets. 
BLACK NURSE Here take these pamphlets home and read them. 
INT. TESTING CLINIC - DAY 
Jennie is standing up. She is hugging herself. The white nurse is sitting down at her desk. The nurse looks real closely at the folder and then shuts it. 
WHITE NURSE Jennie. You've tested positive for the HIV infection. 
JENNIE What? 
WHITE NURSE The test isn't one hundred percent accurate. You should... 
JENNIE I tested positive? 
WHITE NURSE I'm sorry. 
JENNIE But I only had sex with Telly. 
The nurse is quiet. 
LEGLESS MAN Thank you. God bless you. 
CASPER Yeah. Bless you back. 
The legless man makes his way into the next car. 
TELLY I don't understand why you do that. 
CASPER Why I do what? 
TELLY That. 
CASPER Why I give pennies? 
TELLY Yeah. Why you give money. 
CASPER Did you look at that guy? What the fuck. He had no legs. (motions to his waist) He had no half his lower body. He's gotta shit out of his ribcage. 
TELLY That's just it. It's elitist. It's reverse elitism. Because you give money to whoever is the most fucked up. I notice what you do. 
CASPER What are you talking about? 
TELLY Whenever you see someone who's really messed up, especially amputees and retards. You give them money. But if it's just a regular bum, you pass them by. 
CASPER So. 
TELLY So. These people live on the same streets. It's just that you reserve your money for those people who are massively fucked up. The regular bums aren't poor enough for you, you gotta give it to the bottom of the barrel scum fucks. 
CASPER So. You never know when you can end up like that. 
TELLY Right. 
CASPER I'll tell you why. Because when I was little, I had a fat cousin, cousin Luke. And he used to make fun of the handicapped. And one day he had a bad stomachache. So he drank a bottle of Pepto and his ass blew off. 
TELLY Shut up. 
CASPER I'm telling you the truth. And after that, I've always givin' my money to retards. Because that's the reverse of what he did. 
Telly is laughing. 
CASPER So really, it's good luck. 
TELLY Good luck? 
CASPER Yeah, good luck. I mean what the fuck. The guy had no legs. 
They both laugh. 
INT. TELEPHONE BOOTH - DAY 
Ruby and Jennie are squeezed into a telephone booth. They are on a busy street. People are walking by the cars are in a standstill gridlock. It is very loud outside. Everyone is beeping their horns and screaming out windows. 
Ruby looks very dazed and confused. Jennie is nervous and shaky. 
Jennie picks up the phone and puts it to her ear. She searches her pockets for a quarter and comes up empty. She begins shaking her hands back and forth. 
JENNIE Ruby. Do you have a quarter? 
Ruby hands her a quarter. Jennie dials her house. 
JENNIE (into phone) Peter, is Mom there? No, I need to speak to Mommy... Peter where's Mommy? No, I can't talk to you right now. Yeah... I hear it... look just tell her... No never mind... Go watch television. 
She hangs up the phone and starts to cry. Ruby puts her arm around Jennie. 
RUBY Shh. Come on, it's gonna be OK. 
JENNIE That's it. I'm gonna have to tell my little brother, I'm gonna die. I can't make him his lunches anymore. 
TELLY I don't know. Find a job. (pause) Hey can I borrow some money? 
Casper is staring at Telly's mom as she breast-feeds. 
MOM Sorry. Dad made me promise not to give you any money until you find a job. 
TELLY But then I won't need your money. 
MOM That's right. 
Casper is staring at Telly's mom's breast. 
CASPER Man, Telly, your little brother is getting big. 
TELLY Yeah. 
Telly walks out of the kitchen and up the stairs, Casper slowly staggers behind. 
As they walk up the stairs, Telly pulls his shirt off and wipes his underarms and chest. 
Casper pulls Telly's arm. 
CASPER Holy shit man, your mom's got good titties. 
TELLY Shut the fuck up. 
The two of them enter Telly's parents room. 
INT. TELLY'S PARENT'S BEDROOM - DAY 
The bedroom is messy. There are clothes lying on the bed and floor. There is an exercise bike in the corner. Museum posters are on the wall. Tampons on the dresser. 
Casper follows Telly into the bedroom. Telly sticks his head out the door to make sure his mother isn't coming. 
Casper picks up a tampon and starts playing with it. 
Telly opens his mother's shoe closet. All her shoes hand from a big wooden door. He goes directly to a pair of black dress pumps. He pulls out the shoes and puts them under his arm, then he puts his hand in the shot slot and pulls out a pair of shoulder pads with a rubber band rapped around them. He pulls off the rubber brand, and in between the shoulder pads is a small wad of cash. He takes out the cash and sits on the bed counting it. 
Casper is pushing the tampon back and forth inside the plastic shell. 
CASPER How do these things work? 
Telly is counting the cash. 
TELLY Twent, twenty-five, thirty-five, forty-five, fifty. 
Casper is looking at himself in the mirror. 
CASPER How much you gonna take? 
TELLY I don't know. How much do you want? 
Casper is looking at teeth in the mirror. 
CASPER About ten. Fifteen is good. 
TELLY Fifteen for me. 
He puts fifteen dollars in his back pocket. 
TELLY Ten for you. 
Casper is scrapping his teeth with the tampon while looking in the mirror. 
Telly stands up and hands Casper the ten dollars. Caper puts the money in his back pocket. 
Telly picks up his mother's shoulder pads and puts the remaining cash between them. He stuffs the shoulder pads into the shoe slot. He picks up his mother's black pumps and puts them into the slot. He shuts the door. 
TELLY Hey Mom. Are you sure I can't get any money? Just a few bucks. 
MOM If I had it, maybe. But right now I don't have a penny to my name. 
TELLY All right. 
Casper waves good-bye. 
MOM Bye. 
Casper and Telly leave. Telly slams the door behind him. The baby wakes up and starts to cry. 
MOM Shit. 
EXT. PAUL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 
Jennie walks up the stairs to Paul's apartment. She takes her finger down the list of names. 
She rings his bell. Paul sounds really messed up. 
PAUL (from the speaker, laughter and noise) Hello. 
JENNIE Hello Paul. Is Telly inside? 
PAUL (laughing) Is Telly there? 
PAUL This is Paul. Who is this? 
JENNIE It's Jennie. Just tell me if Telly is there. 
PAUL (drunkenly, laughter) Oh hi Jennie. Do you want to come make out with me? 
JENNIE I'm fucking serious. Where's Telly? 
PAUL Telly's not here right now. I believe he went downtown. Casper too. 
Jennie walks down the stairs. A little white girl is sitting on the bottom stair, playing with a black doll. The doll has no hair and it's dress is ripped. She looks up at Jennie. 
LITTLE GIRL My dolly is black... Lucy. 
The girl sticks her doll out so Jennie can hold it. 
EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK - DAY 
Casper and Telly are standing by the chess tables. The park is very busy. Every chess table is being used. People are riding bikes and roller-blading. Strong men are doing pull-ups on the monkey bars while guys walk by with ghetto blasters. A state of public frenzy. 
A Rastafarian drug dealer with a big dread cap is standing a little bit away from Telly and Casper. He is approaching everyone as they walk by him. 
DRUG DEALER (fast and slurred) ... Sess... Smoke, hash, shrooms, valium, coke... Sessamila. 
CASPER Yo, was up Ras! 
RAS Ah Caspa! Was up little blood clot? 
Casper and Telly walk up and shake his hand. 
CASPER Nuffin. You gots? 
RAS Shoot yeah boy. Fuckin best herb. Uptown shit boy. 
TELLY None of that twigs and pebbles shit. 
Another guy trying to sell drugs walks up, but Ras just pushes him away. 
Telly pulls the money out of his back pocket. 
Ras pulls out a dime bag and pushes it open. He looks around and then puts it in Casper's face. 
HAMILTON Break that shit up. 
Casper is smushing the pot up. Hamilton is taking the plastic of the cigar. In this shot they go through the complete process of rolling a blunt. The next sequence should be done with fast edits. 
HAMILTON Cut it. 
Hamilton cuts the cigar down the center with his long thumbnail. 
HAMILTON Scrape it. 
He then scrapes all the tobacco out of the center and onto the ground. 
HAMILTON Lick it. 
He then licks the outer paper till it gets very damp. 
HAMILTON Dump it. 
Casper starts putting the weed inside, Hamilton licks it, then pulls out a lighter and dries it. 
HAMILTON And smoke it. 
Hamilton puts it in his mouth. 
HAMILTON You wanna start off? 
Hamilton looks at Casper and puts the blunt in his face. 
CASPER Naw, you got it Ham. 
Hamilton smiles. 
HAMILTON All right. 
He puts the blunt in his mouth and lights it. A big flame shoots up as it catches the end of the Phillie. Hamilton takes a few big puffs and then blows the smoke away. 
HAMILTON Take two pulls and pass. 
Hamilton passes the blunt to Casper. A bunch of kids start huddling around Casper as he puffs. 
STEVEN, a skinny Spanish kid with gold front teeth, walks up. 
STEVEN Yo can I fuck wit dat? 
Casper smiles and blows smoke in his face. 
CASPER Yeah boy! 
Casper hits it again and then hands it to Steve, who takes immense hits. 
Two male homosexuals in short shorts walk by holding hands. 
Steven turns his head and notices them. He exhales the smoke out of his nose. 
STEVEN Look at that. 
HAROLD That shit is sick. Fuckin faggots. 
CASPER (screaming at the top of his lungs) Fuckin faggots!!! 
Everyone starts laughing. 
CASPER (as loud as possible) Faggots!!! 
Casper rubs his throat. People continue to laugh. 
CASPER My throat. 
HOODLUM Come on nigga. Sup, sup then? Stop faking moves. 
CASPER I'm gonna fuck you up bitch. 
They are both right about to swing. 
Everyone in the whole park has turned their attention to the scuffle. 
All of a sudden, out of nowhere, Harold runs up behind the Hoodlum and with the truck of his skateboard, smashes the guy in the back of the head. A huge thud is heard and the hoodlum just kinda falls forward on his knees. 
Casper, with a big smile, steps back and kicks the guy in the face as hard as he can. 
Everyone gets in a big circle around the fallen hoodlum. They're all screaming. Even the girls are screaming. "Fuck 'em up!" 
Harold continues hitting the hoodlum with his skateboard. 
Hitting him on the legs and stomach. 
Casper is jumping up and down on the hoodlum's head. 
CASPER (everytime he kicks the guy he says this) Suck my dick! Suck my dick! Suck my dick! 
All of a sudden, all the skateboarders in the park, including Hamilton and Steven, take their boards and start smashing this guy, over and over. 
The hoodlum is on the ground holding his head, as everyone frantically tries to kill him. 
The focus should be on the face of the skateboarders. How much they are enjoying this. They continue to pound him, over and over, like animals in on the prey. 
This should look very scary, as twenty guys try to kill the fallen hoodlum. Even little kids are in the middle, beating the guy. 
Telly looks up to the sky. He makes a loud noise as he clears his throat, like he's gathering mucus. Then he puts his arms down and stops some of the kids from hitting the hoodlum. His face is completely cracked and bloody. Telly steps over him and spits a huge phlegm wad onto his face. 
Casper, still smiling, kicks the guy in the face. 
CASPER Suck my dick, Suck my dick. Suck my dick. 
Everyone stops kicking the guy and they all get kinda silent and look at him. He looks completely twisted, bloody, and dead. 
Casper bends over, right in his face. 
CASPER (smiling) Now get in my way! Bitch. 
CUT TO BLACK 
INT. / EXT. TAXICAB - GOING DOWNTOWN - EVENING 
Jennie is in the back of a speeding cab. She is looking out the window. Her face looks sad. 
The TAXI DRIVER is a funny looking old man. He's wearing a jockey hat and a Hawaiian shirt. He has air fresheners hanging from the mirror. He is chewing on a big wet cigar. He has a half shaved beard. He looks like a dirty old man. 
Jennie looks dazed. 
As the taxi driver drives, he looks in his mirror at Jennie. He pulls his cigar out of his mouth and then puts it back in. 
Jazz is playing on the radio. 
TAXI DRIVER Excuse me. Can I ask you a question? 
Jennie just shrugs. 
TAXI DRIVER Can I ask you a question? I'm sorry. I don't mean to be a pest. 
JENNIE What? 
TAXI DRIVER Well, I don't mean to be a pest. It was just that I was looking at you. And you look upset. I liked looking at you, but your face looks upset. And I was wondering if I could be of any assistance? Maybe I could cheer you up or somethin. Help make you happy. Who knows? Somethin maybe. 
As the taxi driver talks, he looks in the mirror, and then looks at the road. He is driving fast and clumsy. He pulls out his cigar and then puts it back in his mouth. 
JENNIE Yeah? 
TAXI DRIVER Yeah. I'm not saying you should get a tattoo. But you should make yourself happy. 
JENNIE What if you can't make yourself happy? What if everything falls apart? 
TAXI DRIVER Well then, I don't know. You know what you do then? You forget. Block it out. I remember when I was a little boy. My grandmother told me to be happy. She said. She said, "Leon, my darling little grandson. If you want to be happy don't think. Don't bump into any walls. If you stutter. Don't talk" And I took her advice. And look at me now. Couldn't be happier. 
He starts to laugh. 
A quick shot of his identification badge. He has a really goofy smile and he's wearing the same Hawaiian shirt. 
TAXI DRIVER That's life. 
Jennie is smiling. 
JENNIE Your a real philosopher. 
TAXI DRIVER Yeah. I was gonna write a book but I can't spell. 
He pulls up on Washington Square Park. He slams on the brakes and turns around in his seat. 
TAXI DRIVER Well here we are, Miss. 
Jennie pulls some money out. 
TAXI DRIVER Aw, don't worry 'bout it. The rides on me. 
Jennie has the money up to the glass. 
TAXI DRIVER All right, all right, I'll take it. But forget about the tip. 
He takes her money. 
JENNIE Thanks. Bye. 
The taxi driver sticks his head out the window. 
TAXI DRIVER Oh yeah. Oh Miss. Miss. When you smile, God notices. That's why the sun is shining. 
He points up to the sky before pulling away. 
EXT. LOWER EAST SIDE - APARTMENT BUILDING - EVENING 
Telly is standing in the road in front of Darcy's apartment building. Casper, Harold, Steven, and two other girls named KIM and JOY are all leaning against and sitting on a parked car. Casper and Steven both have a quart of malt liquor in their hands. 
Telly is looking straight up. He puts his hands together and raises them to his mouth. 
TELLY (screaming) Darcy!!! (pause) Darcy!!! 
Bennie, a skinny 18 year old, sticks his chest out the window. He's chewing on an apple and not wearing a shirt. 
He looks down at Telly 
TELLY (yelling) Hey Bennie. What's up? 
Bennie is munching on his apple. 
BENNIE Nuffin. What do you want? 
TELLY Is your sister home? 
BENNIE You want Darcy? 
TELLY Yeah. 
BENNIE Hold on. Let me see if she's here. 
CASPER That's OK. Cause that's how I'm livin. 
HAROLD Yep. 
Casper slaps hands with Harold. 
Darcy walks out of her apartment building. She is wearing a bikini top with baggy denim jean shorts. Her hair is pushed back and she has a backpack on. 
As she walks out of the building, Telly's eyes light up. 
DARCY Ready. 
Telly walks up to Darcy and kisses her on the cheek. 
TELLY You look nice. 
EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK - EVENING 
Jennie is standing under the arch. She is looking for Telly. 
Misha is sitting on the fountain talking to some guy. 
Jennie walks up to Misha. 
MISHA Hey girl was up? 
Jennie kisses Misha on the cheek. 
JENNIE Just a lot of crazy shit. 
MISHA Yeah? 
JENNIE Yeah. Have you seen Telly around? 
MISHA Yeah. Speaking of stupid shit. Him and his ape ass of a friend Casper, they all just almost killed some kid. 
JENNIE What happened? 
MISHA I don't know. Just some messy little scrap. You know that bullshit. 
JENNIE Do you know where he went? 
MISHA I'm not sure. He said something about meeting Darcy. I think he likes her now. 
JENNIE Who, Benny's little sister? 
MISHA Yeah. She should be at Nasa tonight. Why you lookin for him? You like him now or sometin? 
Jennie just looks at Misha. 
EXT. PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL - NIGHT 
The pool is closed. Large black gates surround the premises. 
All the kids are climbing up the gates. Casper is the first one to the top and just jumps over. Eventually everyone follows. 
They all walk up to the pool and start taking their clothes off. 
Casper pulls his shirt and pants off. He looks over at Kim, who is wearing G-string underwear. 
CASPER Geez Kim. Your body looks fuckin good. 
KIM Thanks. 
CASPER It's funny how sometimes you can't tell if a girl has a nice body until you see her without her clothes. 
Kim smiles. 
He pulls her by the wrist. He takes her into the bathroom. In the bathroom there are kids in big circles smoking pot and buying pills. 
FIDGET I got a present for you. 
He digs in his pocket. 
JENNIE What is it? 
FIDGET Bang up stuff. 
He pulls out a pill. 
FIDGET This makes Special K look weak. It's a euphoric blockbuster. 
JENNIE No, Fidget, I... 
FIDGET Come on Jennie. You look sad. Just take it. 
JENNIE No... 
FIDGET Here. Swallow. 
He puts the pill in her mouth, and she reluctantly takes it. 
FIDGET Now you'll be floatin up in Techno heaven. Don't worry, tricks are for kids. 
INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Steven's house. It's a big mess. Almost no furniture except for a ratty couch and a television set. 
Hip-hop music is playing. 
There are about 15 kids in total, mainly boys. Everyone is running around and drinking. 
Some kid is throwing water balloons out the window. Another kid is jumping off the couch and trying to put footprints on the ceiling. Another boy is urinating into a plant in the corner of the kitchen. 
There are a bunch of boys and girls on the ground lying on top of each other laughing. 
Everyone is smoking and drinking. 
A chubby girl with braces is talking to Casper. She is drunk. 
CHUBBY GIRL Hey Casper. Why do they call you Casper? 
CASPER 'Cause Casper is my name. 
CHUBBY GIRL But that's not your real name. No one's name is Casper. 
CASPER Damn bitch. That's my name. Why do you always ask me the same shit? Why don't you go lose some fucking weight? 
Harold is in the corner with one shoe off. He is sitting next to a pretty oriental girl. He is holding a beer in his hand. 
HAROLD Come on. Let me kiss you. 
She turns her head. 
HAROLD Just let me kiss you. Lemme kiss your neck. You look pretty. 
He starts pulling her head, she is resisting. 
HAROLD Come on. Just one kiss. 
Steven is lying in the middle of the floor with Kim. The two of them are making out. Steven is rubbing in between her legs, she is wearing baggy jeans and her hips are moving with his hand, from side to side. Joy is on the couch watching, looks excited. 
Hamilton is in the bathroom throwing up. 
INT. NASA - NIGHT 
The lights are all almost out in Steven's apartment. Music is still playing. Everyone is either making out or passed out. The chubby girl is watching television and eating potato chips. 
Steven has Kim propped up against the couch. Hr shirt is off and the two of them are passionately kissing. She is making loud moaning noises. 
Telly walks up to him and taps him on the head. 
TELLY Hey Steven. Yo Steven. 
Steven continues to make out. 
TELLY Come on man. Steven. 
Steve turns his head, he looks sweaty and red. 
STEVEN What man? What is it? 
TELLY Yo, let me get in your parent's room man.  Just fir a litte while. 
STEVEN I can't man. 
TELLY Come on Steven hook me up. Do me this solid. (he whispers) Come on man. I gotta get Darcy alone. She's gonna let me fuck her man. Please. 
STEVEN Shit. All right. But don't fuck with anything OK? 
TELLY OK. 
Steven puts his tongue back in Kim's mouth. 
INT. / EXT. TAXI - NIGHT 
Jennie is drinking a beer in the backseat of the taxi. She looks upset. 
INT. STEVEN'S PARENT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
The bedroom is very neat and orderly. 
Telly walks in and immediately turns off all the lights. He turns on the small light by the bed. It casts a dim glow. 
He turns around and pushes her against the door. He starts kissing her really hard. She is responding but a bit slow and shy. 
DARCY I'm nervous. 
TELLY Trust me. Don't be nervous. 
He starts feeling her up. 
INT. STEVEN'S APARTMENT STAIRWELL - NIGHT 
Jennie is slowly walking up a staircase. She looks drunk and sick. 
Music is heard from Steven's house. 
INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Everybody is making out; the house is really quiet except for the stereo. People are all over the floor, some of them are passed out. 
Harold is asleep on top of the Chinese girl, in the corner. 
INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT 
Casper is sitting in the bathtub with the legs hanging out. He is smoking a joint. 
Hamilton is sitting with his head on the toilet. 
Casper moves to give Hamilton a hit off his joint. Hamilton puts his hand up and nods. 
CASPER Pussy. 
