He is asleep. 
FADE TO BLACK: 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER - DAY 
Zed's bed, while still made, looks like it's been slept in. Sitting on it is the ripped open air freight package.  Inside of it is a black steel briefcase. 
The shower is on and from the look of things Zed is in it. 
On the bedside table we see Zed's watch.  It reads 12:10 P.M. Next to it is the phone.  Next to the phone is a piece of folded paper with Moises' name and a phone number that reads: 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - BATHROOM - SHOWER - DAY 
Zed is in the shower letting the water run directly into his face and cascade down his body. 
He opens his mouth and freely drinks the water, then he spits some out with a spurt. 
Then he stops, attentive, listening for something. 
He turns the shower off. 
Then he hears it again, the knocking on the door. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - BATHROOM - DAY 
Zed grabs a towel and climbs out of the shower.  He makes his way toward the knocking. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Zed walks to the door to his room with the towel wrapped around his waist.  He opens it. 
In the hall is ZOEY, a cute French girl of not more than twenty.  She's chewing on gum the way a schoolgirl might, but she looks like no girl Zed ever went to school with. 
ZOEY Bonjour. 
ZED (a little awkwardly) Bonjour. 
Zed opens up the door and lets her in.  She checks out the room and places her bag on the bed.  Then she makes her way to the window for a view of the city. 
ZOEY Wow.  Vous avez une belle chambre.  Je ne suis jamais venue dans cet hotel. 
She turns to him, but in the process takes the time to examine every detail of the room. 
ZOEY Ca sera 150 francs de l'heure.  Toute la nuit pour 700.  D'avance.  Et faudra porter un-- 
ZED I...don't speak French. 
She blows a bubble. 
ZOEY It's okay. 
She takes a seat on the bed. 
ZOEY It will be one thousand francs for all night.  In advance. 
Zed takes the money out of his wallet and gives it to her. 
ZOEY We can do it now if you want. 
ZED Well, let me just dry up. 
ZOEY Okay, but it's not necessary. 
He goes into the bathroom and starts drying himself. 
She puts the money in her bag and then turns on the television from the remote console.  A French talk show comes on.  She changes the channel until she comes to a station playing F.W. Murnau's silent classic, "Nosferatu".  She smiles and sits back to watch. 
ZED(O.S.) (from the bathroom) What's your name? 
ZOEY Zoe or Zoey.  Which ever you like. 
ZED(O.S.) My name's Zed. 
ZOEY (smiling at this) That's funny.  We both have Z names. 
Zed comes walking out of the bathroom drying his hair.  His pants are on. 
ZED What was that? 
She notices his pants. 
ZOEY And you make me feel safe.  That's something more important than the orgasm. An integral part maybe of the orgasm. 
ZED I never really thought of it like that. 
ZOEY Well, it's true. 
Zed nods at this. 
ZOEY Turn off the television. 
Zed reaches over and turns it off from the console. 
ZOEY So I mean it when I tell you Zed, I like you very much. 
ZED Well, I like you too Zoe. 
ZOEY Honest? 
He nods. 
ZOEY Why?  For the same reason?  Any man can orgasm.  Even with his own hand. 
Zed stares ahead as he thinks of an answer. 
ZED Well, I like your honesty.  You're open. Unlike most prostitutes I've been with. 
She doesn't like the sound of this.  She slaps him. 
ZOEY I am not a prostitute! 
Zed is a little surprised at this. 
ZED Really?  Can I have my francs back then? 
ZOEY I'm a student.  And to pay for the classes I became an escort.  It's my choice to sleep with you. 
ZED I see. 
ZOEY What?  You don't understand. 
ZED No, I do. 
ZOEY Hey, it's not easy. 
ZED I didn't say it was. 
ZOEY I'm here because I want to. 
ZED Okay, okay relax.  What school do you go to? 
ZOEY The Centre du Art, Paris. 
ZED That's really interesting.  What kind of art do you study? 
ZOEY Not any of the old shit. 
ZED Oh. 
ZOEY I have a day job too.  Three times a week. 
She rolls onto her back and stares into an imaginary world as she talks to Zed. 
ZOEY But someday there will be only my art. 
ZED What kind of things do you paint? 
ZOEY I don't paint.  I make things.  Objects. Not like sculpture.  Like life...but with no narrative.  I want when someone looks at one of my objects for there to be no reference to the world.  Void of feeling, emotion...void of destiny.  Those are left for me.  They belong only to me.  If someone else can see into it...then it is no longer mine.  I have failed.  And I would destroy it.  I don't care how much cash they would offer me.  It would be shit.  I can't tell you how many objects of mine have been destroyed.  They told too much about me.  And if someone wants to know something about me...I'll tell them myself.  The way I'm telling you. 
She looks back at him. 
ZOEY What I do I do only for the objects. 
ZED I'd like to see one of these. 
ZOEY What?  So you could see the work of a whore? 
He decides to put a stop to this once and for all. 
ZED Zoey.  I'm sorry for calling you a prostitute.  I didn't understand the difference. 
ZOEY The difference is a prostitute would have lied to you about her orgasm. 
She shrieks. 
ZOEY [Let go of me you shit!!] 
He drags her out into the room, she is dripping wet. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Zed can't believe this. 
ZED Eric. 
ERIC (to Zed) Don't worry about her. (to Zoey in French) [Why don't you just go back to your pimp and suck his black dick!] 
She bites his hand.  He yells in pain. 
ERIC God damn it! 
He kicks her in the butt and sends her toward the door. 
ERIC [Get the fuck out of here you fucking whore!] 
He opens the door and throws her into the hall. 
INT. HOTEL - HALL - NIGHT 
Naked, Zoey falls into the hall. 
Eric slams the door shut. 
She is instantly back on her feet and screaming as she pounds on the door. 
ZOEY [Give me my clothes you asshole!] 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
She is pounding on the door. 
ERIC (looking at his hand wound) God damn it.  Look at my hand. 
ZED (shocked at the whole incident) Jesus Eric. 
ZOEY(O.S.) Ouvres!  Je veux mes habits! 
Eric listens. 
ERIC Oh shit.  Her clothes. 
He picks up her clothes and her bag, opens the door, and throws it into the hall just long enough for her to yell at him. 
ZOEY (almost too quick to understand) Tu te prends pour qui espece de connard!? 
ERIC La ferme! 
He slams the door shut. 
Then he turns to Zed. 
ERIC So tell me, what have you been up to? 
Zed sits down on the bed. 
ZOEY(O.S.) Allez vous faire enculer tous le deux! 
ZED Eric, I liked that girl. 
ERIC Oh.  Well, then why didn't you stop me. 
ZED Because you were on a rampage. 
ERIC Look, your whole life you've done nothing but fuck whores.  A girl like that will give you AIDS.  Why don't you find a nice girl in the suburbs? 
ZED Because when you need to get off you don't want to have to date for months to do it. 
ERIC Just use your hand like me. 
ZED Sometimes you just need honesty...and security. 
ERIC I don't understand.  Anyway, it's too late.  Get dressed, let's go out and meet the boys. 
ZED Okay, let me take a shower. 
ERIC They all know who you are. (to the rest of them) Ne soyez pa salauds.  Offrez une biere au plus grand perceur de coffres. 
Oliver stands up and walks to the kitchen. 
OLIVER (with an English accent) Zed, would you like a beer? 
ZED Thanks. 
OLIVER Don't think of it. 
CLAUDE (to Zed) Come.  Sit down. 
INT. ERIC'S FLAT - KITCHEN - NIGHT 
The kitchen is an absolute pig stye.  Dishes are piled up in the sink and on the counter. 
Oliver grabs a glass that has some old beer in it and empties it.  He scratches some filth off of it and pours some beer into the glass. 
INT. ERIC'S FLAT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Zed takes a seat on the couch next to Claude. 
Suddenly, a SPIDER MONKEY dressed in a little Uncle Sam costume comes screeching up onto Zed's lap and then up onto his head, the whole time clawing at his eyes. 
Eric, amused, turns from the men playing cards and smiles. 
CLAUDE (to Zed) Easy.  Don't scare him.  He just wants to claim you. 
Zed is frozen as the monkey climbs around him and then onto Claude's shoulder. 
CLAUDE Let me introduce you properly.  This is Enrique. 
The monkey screeches. 
CLAUDE He likes to be called Chim Chim, but we don't always get what we like...do we? 
Again, the hideous creature screeches. 
CLAUDE (to Enrique) Tais-toi! (then to Zed) Do you like hash? 
Then Eric interrupts. 
ERIC (jokingly) Don't sit next to that junkie. 
CLAUDE Ahhhhhh! 
Claude throws a lit cigarette at him which explodes into a mass of sparks.  They laugh. 
ERIC (to Claude) That little shit monkey of yours pissed on my Billy Holiday albums.  Next time he's out the door. (to Zed) Zed, come here. 
Zed gets up and goes with Eric to the bedroom.  On the way Oliver hands him the glass of beer. 
OLIVER Here you go mate. 
ZED Thanks. 
Oliver sits down next to Claude. 
INT. ERIC'S FLAT - BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Eric's bed has probably never been made.  In fact, this room looks a lot like Quentin Tarantino's old apartment.  But, there is a certain order to all this chaos.  Eric pulls out a blueprint and spreads it out over the bed. 
ERIC Don't ask me where we got this. 
ZED Okay. 
ERIC On Bastille Day, all the banks are closed. 
He places his hand on the blueprint. 
ERIC But this one.  BIP.  The Banque Internationale de Paris.  And for being greedy capitalists perhaps they will remain closed next Bastille day.  Yes? 
Zed smiles. 
ERIC We will go in and shut the bank down. Now, look at this. 
Eric pulls out a complex electronic schematic. 
ERIC As you can see, only one person can start the alarm. (he hands it to Zed) The concierge, at this desk. (he points it out on the blueprint) We will take care of him.  Then we can close the bank.  No one will know the difference since every other bank will be closed. 
ZED (turning the schematic around) Are you sure he won't push the alarm? 
INT. ERIC'S FLAT - BATHROOM - NIGHT 
EXTREME CLOSE ON:  Eric making heroin. 
The heroin powder is put into a spoon with some lemon squeezed into it, then a little bit of tap water.  Huddled around Eric are Francois, Ricardo, and Oliver. 
OLIVER (so high he's wobbling) You have to look at the Starship Enterprise as a metaphor for the human brain. 
No one is really listening to Oliver.  Eric takes out a lighter and cooks it to a boil. 
OLIVER (continuing) Spock is the right hemisphere of the brain, all logic and intellect. Mc Coy is the left hemisphere, stricktly emotional. And Kirk is the unseen observer.  He drifts between the two.  Back and forth, as it might be, caught between the two thought processes. 
ERIC [Cotton.] 
Ricardo hands him a cotton ball. 
OLIVER (continuing) It's really quite brilliant you know. That's why Star Trek is and always will be a hit show. 
Eric places the cotton ball in the spoon with the mixture. 
ERIC (to Oliver) [Here, shut up and hold this.] 
He hands Oliver the spoon and takes out a needle.  Using the cotton as a filter he draws the heroin into the syringe. 
Then, he holds the syringe up and starts tapping it. 
ERIC [Don't want to get air bubbles in my veins.] 
They all laugh at this. 
INT. ERIC'S FLAT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
In the meantime, Zed is sitting on the couch with Claude and Jean.  Claude is rolling a hash and tobacco cigarette.  Jean is chopping up some powder heroin on the glass of a small picture. 
JEAN Do you want heroin? 
ZED No, I want to be sharp for tomorrow. 
Jean and Claude laugh at this. 
JEAN No.  A little bit of heroin, some hash, a beer...and you're just right. 
Jean snorts a line. 
Claude offers Zed the spliff.  Zed shakes his head "no". 
CLAUDE Okay. 
JEAN (recovering from the snort) That's good. 
Eric, Francois, Ricardo, and Oliver come out of the kitchen laughing. 
Eric, Ricardo, and Oliver take a seat on the couch opposite Zed.  Francois sits on the floor. 
Eric rolls up his sleeve. 
ERIC (to Ricardo in French) [Hold my arm.] (then to Zed) My vein is like a rock. 
Ricardo takes hold of his arm and squeezes.  Eric inserts the needle into his vein and draws out a little blood.  It mixes with the heroin, then he pumps it in...then back into the syringe, then all the way back in. 
He withdraws the needle. 
Ricardo lets go of his arm. 
Eric is in bliss.  His eyes roll back into his head.  He looks like he's on the verge of falling asleep. 
Then Jean takes another snort. 
Pretty soon everyone is smoking and getting high, shooting up, and drinking more beer. 
Then Jean holds out a piece of folded aluminum foil with some heroin in it. 
JEAN (to Zed) Try some.  It's called chasing the dragon.  The Chinese have been doing it for centuries. 
ZED I don't think so. 
JEAN Oh, but you must.  It will make you feel as though the rest of the world is in a bubble of glass and that you're rubbing up against it like a bad windshield wiper. 
They stick the aluminum foil with the heroin in it up next to his face.  They then light the bottom of the foil with a lighter.  Before Zed knows it, he's inhaling a silky ribbon of smoke. 
Suddenly our plane of focus wildly shifts and we... 
Zed can't believe this.  He's not sure if what he heard was what he thought he heard. 
ZED Really? 
Then Eric sees something. 
ERIC Okay, up here is the Arc de Triomphe. 
They take a sharp turn. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CELLAR - NIGHT 
Eric, Zed, Francois, Ricardo, Jean, Claude, and Oliver are all walking down some dank stone steps into a cellar. Somewhere crazy Raymond Scott Toy Jazz music is playing. 
An old wine cellar has been converted into a Toy Jazz club. Nothing fancy...dirt floors, chairs and small tables scattered about...but the arched brick ceilings make for great acoustics. 
ON STAGE 
a BAND is playing away.  In the audience sit about TWELVE FRENCH PEOPLE, all enjoying the music. 
AT THE BUFFET 
In the back of the club near the doors some tables have been set up with a buffet of local cuisine on it.  Behind the tables are two rotund but happy French women MIRELLE and JOSEPHINE. 
Eric, Zed, Francois, Ricardo, Jean, Claude, and Oliver walk in and immediately start blabbing away in French to Mirelle and Josephine. 
Eric hands them some money. 
ZED'S TABLE 
Everyone enters and takes seats at various parts of the club. Oliver sits next to Zed. 
OLIVER So, how long have you known Eric? 
ZED Well, Eric's mother is American. 
OLIVER Yeah, and his dad's French. 
ZED They're divorced.  And she and his father had some kind of six month split plan set up.  So every six months he would come back to the states.  We were best friends.  Eventually he and his mother had a falling out and he stayed here. It's been...years. 
OLIVER Well, it's good to have you here.  Eric speaks fairly highly of you.  Say, he says you're a big fan of Viking films. 
ZED Well...I suppose.  I used to be, when I was young. 
OLIVER Oh they're the best.  Helmets with horns on them.  Shit.  That's fucking genius. 
He starts laughing. 
OLIVER How 'bout Toy Jazz?  You like it? 
Zed watches the players on stage and then nods. 
ZED Yeah...I guess. 
OLIVER I love it.  It's really good, you know? Like real music.  It has a heart and culture all it's own.  It's, like, jazz for dwarves...or guys in Leiderhosen. Total purity of essence. 
ZED Yeah. 
OLIVER Hungry cannibals'd like it. 
Then Claude comes up to them with some glasses and a bottle of red wine. 
CLAUDE Here, you must drink some of this wine, it's good. 
He pours Zed a glass. 
Oliver passes on the wine. 
OLIVER (to Claude) Non merci, c'est de la merde. 
CLAUDE (to Oliver) La ferme.  C'est du bon vin. (to Zed) The fucking English. 
Zed sips some.  He's in no real shape to tell if the wine's good or not. 
ON STAGE 
Suddenly, it seems as though the bands music gets louder. The horns really start to scream and the room becomes a delirium of music. 
The band stands up. 
Eric gives it a kick.  No response. 
ERIC I guess it is dead. 
They walk into the flat. 
INT. ERIC'S FLAT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Eric's flat consists of a good sized living room area with a connected kitchen and a small bedroom in the back.  In the front of the living room there is a small balcony where the sounds of the city pour in.  The room itself is a general mess.  A bunch of guns are piled in one corner of the floor. Hung up on the wall is a huge, French "Dressed To Kill" poster. 
Some Brazilian Gilberto/Getz music is playing. 
Sitting at the table playing cards are three men:  FRANCOIS, RICARDO, and JEAN. 
Sitting on the couch rolling a cigarette with hash is CLAUDE and OLIVER. 
They all turn as Zed and Eric walk in. 
ERIC Hello. 
They all return the greeting. 
ERIC (to Zed) Okay.  This is Francois, Ricardo, Jean, Oliver, and Claude.  Got it? 
ZED I will. 
ERIC They all know who you are. (to the rest of them) Ne soyez pa salauds.  Offrez une biere au plus grand perceur de coffres. 
Oliver stands up and walks to the kitchen. 
OLIVER (with an English accent) Zed, would you like a beer? 
ZED Thanks. 
OLIVER Don't think of it. 
CLAUDE (to Zed) Come.  Sit down. 
INT. ERIC'S FLAT - KITCHEN - NIGHT 
The kitchen is an absolute pig stye.  Dishes are piled up in the sink and on the counter. 
Oliver grabs a glass that has some old beer in it and empties it.  He scratches some filth off of it and pours some beer into the glass. 
INT. ERIC'S FLAT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Zed takes a seat on the couch next to Claude. 
Suddenly, a SPIDER MONKEY dressed in a little Uncle Sam costume comes screeching up onto Zed's lap and then up onto his head, the whole time clawing at his eyes. 
Eric, amused, turns from the men playing cards and smiles. 
CLAUDE (to Zed) Easy.  Don't scare him.  He just wants to claim you. 
Zed is frozen as the monkey climbs around him and then onto Claude's shoulder. 
CLAUDE Let me introduce you properly.  This is Enrique. 
The monkey screeches. 
CLAUDE He likes to be called Chim Chim, but we don't always get what we like...do we? 
Again, the hideous creature screeches. 
CLAUDE (to Enrique) Tais-toi! (then to Zed) Do you like hash? 
Then Eric interrupts. 
ERIC (jokingly) Don't sit next to that junkie. 
CLAUDE Ahhhhhh! 
Claude throws a lit cigarette at him which explodes into a mass of sparks.  They laugh. 
ERIC (to Claude) That little shit monkey of yours pissed on my Billy Holiday albums.  Next time he's out the door. (to Zed) Zed, come here. 
Zed gets up and goes with Eric to the bedroom.  On the way Oliver hands him the glass of beer. 
OLIVER Here you go mate. 
ZED Thanks. 
Eric takes a big hit. 
ERIC Over here is where the male prostitutes sell themselves.  Do you see? 
No, Zed doesn't see. 
Suddenly, everyone in the car is shouting out the windows. 
OLIVER (out the window) Fucking fags! 
ERIC (also out the window) Suce ma bite?! 
RICARDO Perverts d'homosexuels! 
Eric laughs. 
ERIC (into Zed's ear) This is good to have you here.  We could not do this without you. 
Zed nods. 
ERIC Everyone has agreed to give you double shares.  That's good. 
Zed nods, delirious. 
ERIC You know I have AIDS.  From the needle. 
Zed can't believe this.  He's not sure if what he heard was what he thought he heard. 
ZED Really? 
Then Eric sees something. 
ERIC Okay, up here is the Arc de Triomphe. 
They take a sharp turn. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CELLAR - NIGHT 
Eric, Zed, Francois, Ricardo, Jean, Claude, and Oliver are all walking down some dank stone steps into a cellar. Somewhere crazy Raymond Scott Toy Jazz music is playing. 
An old wine cellar has been converted into a Toy Jazz club. Nothing fancy...dirt floors, chairs and small tables scattered about...but the arched brick ceilings make for great acoustics. 
ON STAGE 
a BAND is playing away.  In the audience sit about TWELVE FRENCH PEOPLE, all enjoying the music. 
AT THE BUFFET 
In the back of the club near the doors some tables have been set up with a buffet of local cuisine on it.  Behind the tables are two rotund but happy French women MIRELLE and JOSEPHINE. 
Eric, Zed, Francois, Ricardo, Jean, Claude, and Oliver walk in and immediately start blabbing away in French to Mirelle and Josephine. 
Eric hands them some money. 
ZED'S TABLE 
Everyone enters and takes seats at various parts of the club. Oliver sits next to Zed. 
OLIVER So, how long have you known Eric? 
ZED Well, Eric's mother is American. 
OLIVER Yeah, and his dad's French. 
ZED They're divorced.  And she and his father had some kind of six month split plan set up.  So every six months he would come back to the states.  We were best friends.  Eventually he and his mother had a falling out and he stayed here. It's been...years. 
OLIVER Well, it's good to have you here.  Eric speaks fairly highly of you.  Say, he says you're a big fan of Viking films. 
ZED Well...I suppose.  I used to be, when I was young. 
OLIVER Oh they're the best.  Helmets with horns on them.  Shit.  That's fucking genius. 
He starts laughing. 
OLIVER How 'bout Toy Jazz?  You like it? 
Zed watches the players on stage and then nods. 
ZED Yeah...I guess. 
At the sight of Eric and his men the sub lobby guard #2 aims his weapon but does not fire because of the bank manager. 
Eric presses his Uzi against the bank manager's neck. 
ERIC (to the guard) [Drop the gun!] 
He doesn't. 
ERIC [Drop your gun now and nobody dies!] 
After a moments thought about this, and the fact that Oliver has a sawed-off aimed at him, he slowly puts his gun on the floor. 
ERIC [Good boy.] 
They descend down the stairs into the sub lobby. 
Oliver takes his gun. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - LOBBY - DAY 
Francois, Ricardo, and Jean have finished herding everyone behind the teller windows.  Claude is on his way downstairs. 
CLAUDE [I'm going to check things out downstairs.] 
RICARDO (to the people) [Now!  On the ground!  Face down!] 
Then, for effect, he kicks a man. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - SUB LOBBY - DAY 
Claude comes downstairs with his gun raised. 
CLAUDE [All clear down here?] 
Everyone turns. 
ERIC [Take these two upstairs.  And chain the gate to the sub lobby shut.] 
Oliver pushes the sub lobby guard #2 and the sub lobby assistant toward Claude.  Then he hands him a chain. 
Claude can barely maintain his enthusiasm. 
CLAUDE [The phones and video are down!  We're locked up tight!] (then in English) We fucking did it! 
He takes the two upstairs. 
Eric smiles through his teeth at the bank manager. 
ERIC [Any others I should worry about?] 
BANK MANAGER [No.] 
ERIC (to Oliver) [Well, just to be sure--] 
Then, from one of the safety deposit booths a sound is heard. All eyes turn to it. 
Oliver walks up to it and kicks the door in.  The stodgy customer is kneeling in it.  He instantly holds his hands high. 
OLIVER [Freeze motherfucker!] 
Eric walks up, gun in hand. 
ERIC [Who the fuck are you?] 
STODGY CUSTOMER [Please don't shoot me!] 
OLIVER [On the ground!] 
He does. 
ERIC (to the bank manager) [Making a deposit I hope.] (he smiles to Oliver) [Bring him with us.] 
They all make their way down through the sub lobby hall. 
INT. BANK - RESERVE VAULT AREA - DAY 
They're herding the men through the hall. 
Eric quickly removes the gun from the customers temple and fires two shots into the bank manager's face. 
The bank manager falls against the vault door and onto the floor. 
ERIC Fucking idiot. (then to the stodgy customer) [You seem like a nice man.  Tonight at dinner think about how lucky you are and how much you love your family.] 
He starts nodding his head. 
STODGY CUSTOMER Oui. 
ERIC (to Oliver) [Take him upstairs.] 
Oliver takes the customer upstairs to the rest of the people. 
Eric rips off his mask. 
ERIC Don't you ever conflict with me during work again!  Do you hear!? 
Zed off his clown mask. 
ZED You didn't have to shoot any of them! 
ERIC (patronizing) Oh, I'm sorry.  I didn't realize you were in charge now.  Nobody told me. (his temper flares) If he had opened the vault it would have saved us a fucking hour. 
He charges into the reserve vault area. 
INT. BANK - RESERVE VAULT AREA - DAY 
They enter and Eric walks up to a bathroom door. 
ZED Eric.  It's just that we've gone from being thieves to murderers. 
ERIC Oh fuck it doesn't matter!  Here you get the death penalty just for robbing a federal bank. 
ZED I thought the death penalty was abolished in 1980? 
ERIC Ohhhh!  That's what they tell you!  But who cares?  I need to take a piss. 
Eric enters the bathroom. 
ERIC (on his way into the bathroom) Why don't you open the vault? 
Zed looks at the bathroom door close.  After a fuming pause he turns and walks back toward the Poseidon vault door. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - LOBBY - DAY 
Francois peeks through the venetian blinds of the windows to the outside. 
FRANCOIS [Looks clear.] 
In the meantime, behind the teller windows guarding the people who are laying on the floor, Jean and Ricardo are in the middle of a conversation.  Oliver is sitting on the counter, having just brought the stodgy customer upstairs. Also here now are the sub lobby assistant and the sub lobby guard #2. 
JEAN [What do you mean you're not sure if the alarm went off or not?] 
RICARDO [I mean I'm not sure.] 
JEAN [Well, either it did or it didn't.] 
RICARDO [And I'm not sure.] 
JEAN [Well, do you think it did?] 
RICARDO [I just fucking told you, I don't know.] 
JEAN [Take a guess.] 
RICARDO [It didn't.] 
JEAN [You're sure?] 
RICARDO [No.  It's just a guess.] 
JEAN [Well what kind of a fucking guess is that?  You're saying it could have.] 
RICARDO [Yes.] 
JEAN [Well that's fucking great.  Why didn't you just kill that asshole to begin with. I knew I should have been the one to kill him.  You're always so damn slow.] 
RICARDO [Shit these masks are really hot.] 
RICARDO ["Okay, okay," gasped the proprietor, "I'll see what I can do."  So the ex-con followed him through to the very back of the warehouse through some stained, tattered red curtains, and into a grimy little room where a bedraggled looking whore lay spreadeagled on a filthy bed. "She's yours for fifty francs," said the proprietor, and the fellow went at it.] 
Zoey notices that on the concierge security guard's leg is an ankle holster with a small .38 pistol on it.  His fingers begin to unsnap the safety harness on it. 
Her eyes widen. 
RICARDO [After a little while, he came across a piece of egg.  "That's funny," he thought to himself, "I don't think I had egg for breakfast."  But he spat it out and kept eating away.  Next he found a piece of chipped beef wedged between his front teeth.  "I'm sure I haven't eaten chipped beef this week," he thought, but kept on. Then he came across the corn.  "What is this?" he said, "I think I'm going to be sick."] 
The concierge security guard unsnaps the safety.  Zoey knows he's going to make his move. 
RICARDO ["Ya know," says the whore, "that's what the last guy said."] 
Before they can even laugh the concierge security guard whips out the .38 and fires three shots. 
Two of them hit Ricardo in the chest.  He falls to the ground. 
The other hits Francois in the arm. 
In an instant Jean is firing his machine gun into the group of people huddled on the floor. 
Everyone is screaming and trying to get away. 
Machine gun fire cuts through the concierge security guard killing him dead. 
Unfortunately, the wild spray of bullets also rips into three of the tellers, four of the customers, and the loan officer, killing them all. 
People are trying to flee but Claude fires his gun into the ceiling. 
CLAUDE [No one fucking moves!] 
Jean has jumped up on the table and is aiming at the people. 
JEAN [Shit!  What happened!?] 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - VAULT ANTECHAMBER - DAY 
Zed looks up hearing the commotion. 
Eric comes running out of the bathroom and into the storage/elevator area. 
ERIC What is it?  What's going on? 
Zed gets up to go upstairs. 
ZED I don't know. 
ERIC No!  You stay here. 
Eric runs upstairs. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - LOBBY - DAY 
Francois is on the ground holding his arm.  He keeps rolling back and forth in pain. 
Ricardo is dead. 
Jean, Claude, and Oliver are waving their guns around ready to kill someone any second. 
JEAN [Nobody fucking moves!  Nobody fucking moves!] 
Claude motions to the dead security guard. 
CLAUDE [The gun!  Somebody get it!] 
Oliver goes over to the dead security guard, the whole time waving his gun at people. 
OLIVER [Don't fuck with me!  Don't fuck with me!] 
He grabs the gun from the dead security guards limp grip. 
Eric storms in.  He isn't wearing his mask. 
ERIC [What the fuck is going on!?] 
Zoey notices Eric, she remembers him. 
OLIVER (pointing at the dead man) [This crazy fuck shot Ricardo!] 
WOMAN TELLER (answering phone through tears) Banque Internationale de Paris. 
She pauses, then hands the phone to Eric. 
WOMAN TELLER [It's for you.] 
Eric takes the phone and pushes her to the floor. 
He puts the receiver to his ear. 
ERIC (into phone) [Hello.] (pause) [Who is this?] 
Eric motions to Oliver to check the windows. 
Oliver runs over and peeks out the blinds. 
OLIVER Oh my God!  The police! 
ERIC (into phone) [What do you want?] 
Eric looks around at the dead bodies. 
ERIC (into phone) [We're all fine in here.] 
Oliver is pacing back and forth wildly.  He starts loading extra ammo into his weapon. 
ERIC (into phone) [No.  I'll tell you what, you go fuck yourself you fucking pig.  You send anyone near this building and I'll kill the first person I lay my hands on.  I've got plenty hostages here to kill so don't even think of coming in.] (pause) [Just stay put.  We'll call you when we're ready.  In the mean time, have a nice day.] 
Eric hangs up the phone, and then leaves it off the hook. 
CLAUDE [The silent alarm must have gone off after all!] 
ERIC [Shut the fuck up!  The alarm didn't do shit.  For all we know your idiot shooting brought them here.  Anyhow it doesn't matter.  Nothing has changed.] 
JEAN [My God!  The police!  What are we going to do?] 
ERIC [Nothing.  We don't have to do anything. The plan stays the same, just slightly different.] 
Then Eric catches sight of Zoey, their eyes lock.  Eric smiles and winks.  Then he turns to Jean with a whisper. 
ERIC [If the police decide to come in...kill them.  And if you don't mind, stack those bodies somewhere else.  This place is a fucking mess and it's bad for morale.] 
Then he takes off downstairs, smiling.  Jean is a little stumped. 
INT. BANK - RESERVE VAULT AREA - DAY 
As Eric walks down the stairs and through the reserve vault area a look of intense concentration washes over his face. You can see that a trillion calculations are being made in his brain...the question is:  are there any answers? 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - VAULT ANTECHAMBER - DAY 
Zed is drilling now with a hand drill.  He removes it and blows into the hole.  Shavings come out. 
Eric comes trotting into the antechamber whistling. 
ZED (turning to Eric) What's going on? 
ERIC Nothing.  They were just scaring them. 
ZED Well, did you tell them to stay quiet? 
ERIC Yes.  They're assholes.  Just having fun. 
Zed looks into the hole. 
He has drilled into the vault door, revealing some wiring. 
ZED Fucked up my drill bit. 
ERIC It's okay.  You can buy another one. 
Zed takes out a volt meter from his briefcase and inserts the two prongs into the hole. 
ZED Cross your fingers. 
Eric does. 
The volt meter's needle jumps. 
ZED Perfect. 
ZED I can get through that lock in a minute. 
ERIC Then do it.  We don't have all day. 
Zed enters the Poseidon vault. 
INT. BANK - POSEIDON VAULT - DAY 
Zed goes to the gated passage which isn't much more than a window in one upper side of the vault, but it's enough to get him into the main vault. 
Eric is right behind him. 
Zed takes a twirl at the combination lock. 
ZED Dime store brand.  Three minutes max. 
ERIC Good. 
Then, there's a gunshot.  The bullet comes from the Calibre vault through the window and almost hits Zed. 
Zed falls backwards onto the floor. 
ZED Fuck! 
ERIC Merde! 
Then there's another gunshot. 
The bullet ricochets through the vault. 
ZED Jesus Christ! 
Scrambling on their hands and knees Zed and Eric crawl out of the Poseidon vault. 
INT. BANK - VAULT ANTECHAMBER - DAY 
They take cover. 
Another shot is fired into the vault. 
Zed and Eric look into the vault. 
ZED Another security guard? 
ERIC Must be. 
ZED I think I stained my pants. 
ERIC Me too. 
Oliver comes running in with his gun ready for action. 
OLIVER What is it?!  I came down to see how things were going and heard shots! 
ERIC Some asshole in the vault. 
Oliver takes cover and cocks his gun. 
OLIVER We've got guns.  Why don't we just storm in and blast his fucking ass!  It's three against one!  Let's give it the old-- 
ERIC Quiet! 
OLIVER I'm just trying to be helpful. 
ERIC Just let me think. 
OLIVER You don't have to snap at me. 
Eric peeks into the vault. 
ERIC (calling into the vault) [Hey you.  Nice shooting.  Play time's over.  Why don't you throw out your gun?] 
VAULT GUARD #1(O.S.) (calling from main vault) No! 
Oliver and Eric look at each other and smile. 
ERIC [Come on.  We don't want to kill you.] 
VAULT GUARD #1(O.S.) [You'll have to!] 
ERIC (quietly to Zed) What is this guys problem? (then to the guard) [Come on!  You're making me impatient.  I don't have all day.] 
OLIVER Right. 
Zed crawls through the opening. 
OLIVER I'll be at the other vault waiting for you to call to me. 
INT. CALIBER VAULT - DAY 
The main vault looks like what a vault would look like if it were blown up from the inside.  On the floor is the still smoldering body of the security guard.  The room is incredibly smokey. 
Zed squeezes through the opening. 
Then, Eric, grinning like a schoolboy, emerges from the smoke with a brick sized bar of pure gold. 
ERIC Look at it!  We're all rich! 
The smoke clears and we see that on the far side of the vault there is a huge platen on wheels with bricks of gold stacked onto it. 
Eric starts laughing. 
ERIC We're rich! 
Zed looks at him like he's crazy. 
ERIC We're rich! 
ZED We're not out of here yet. 
ERIC Yes but we're rich! 
Zed takes a seat at the vault door.  The backside of a vault door looks like an incredibly intricate clock.  Zed removes the Plexiglass shielding. 
ERIC I'm going to show the others. 
He squirms out of the entry with the brick of gold. 
Zed shakes his head and goes to work setting dials and using his voltmeter to test electrical points. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - LOBBY - DAY 
Claude is talking to Jean. 
CLAUDE [What?  You think we may actually get out of this?  You're fooling yourself.] 
JEAN [Why are you such a pessimist?] 
CLAUDE [Are you kidding me?  Look at this mess.] 
Jean surveys the mess, the crying people. 
CLAUDE [This is nothing.  Imagine the police outside.  We're dead men.] 
Eric walks in from the rear stairs.  In his hand is a brick of gold. 
ERIC [Jean, Francois, Claude...look at this.] 
They see the gold. 
JEAN [You did it!  You got in!] 
ERIC [Zed is opening the vault now.  This is a taste.] 
Eric holds the bar of gold up for all the people to see. 
ERIC [Look at this and tell me I'm not brilliant.] 
WOMAN CUSTOMER (crying) [You're a monster!  And you'll never leave this place alive!] 
Eric shoots her with his Uzi. 
ERIC (to the hostages) [None of you are worth half of this single bar.  Remember that.] 
Francois, Jean, and Claude look at each other. 
CLAUDE [Eric...can I speak with you?] 
ERIC [Of course.] 
CLAUDE [In private.] 
ERIC [With her.] 
ASSISTANT MANAGER [Yes.] 
ERIC [That's sweet.] (to Zoey) [You have quite a reach my lovely.  Is he one of your clients?] 
He pushes Zoey to the ground. 
ERIC [It's a deal.] 
ASSISTANT MANAGER [Thank you.] 
ERIC [Don't mention it.] 
He grabs the assistant manager and at gunpoint forces him to the main entrance. 
CLAUDE [Eric!  What are you doing?] 
ERIC [Clearing up the "how full of shit am I" question the cops are asking themselves right now.] 
The assistant manager is putting up a bit of a struggle but Eric simply forces him along. 
Everyone waits until suddenly they hear a burst of gunfire from outside.  They all scream. 
Eric walks back into the bank, he picks up the phone. 
ERIC (into phone) [Hello.] (pause) [Yes.  I'll hold.] (then to Claude) [I'm holding.] 
After a little bit of a wait someone comes on the other end of the line. 
ERIC (into phone) [Hello.] (pause) [You don't know the fucking half of it. So just shut the fuck up and listen.  Try any more stunts and I'll fucking really go crazy.] (pause) [Well that's good because if you faggot cops even think of it I'll kill some more people.  Hear?] (pause) [No.  None of that.  We won't trade. That never works.  Not in the movies, not in real life.  Understand?  We're going to get into our van, with a couple of people, go to the airport, and fly out of this shit hole city.  And you're not going to follow us.] (pause) [Who do you fucking think is going to supply the plane?  Us?  No, you fucking imbecile, the French taxpayers would be a good second guess for you.  You're really pissing me off.  You think I'm a fucking amature?] 
He covers the mouth piece. 
ERIC (to Claude) [I fucking hate cops.] 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - CALIBER VAULT - DAY 
Zed is sweating as he works away at the back of the door.  He glances over what he's done and makes a calculation on a calculator. 
Then, there is a groaning sound. 
Zed, terrified, spins around. 
Another groaning sound.  The vault security guard isn't dead. His body is charred and he's not moving but he's very much alive. 
VAULT GUARD #1 [I'm going to die...] 
Zed can't believe what he's seeing. 
He moves over to the body, leaving his work behind. 
VAULT GUARD #1 [I'm going to die...please hold my...hand.  I don't...want to die...alone.] 
Zed hovers over the body, afraid to touch it.  He gives it a nudge with his foot. 
The body groans and then exhales the longest exhale ever. 
Zed kneels down next to the body. 
ZED Are you still there? 
Nothing. 
Zed puts his hand to the neck of the vault guard #1 and checks for a pulse. 
Nothing. 
Zed sits there for a moment looking at the corpse, then, like he wants to get out of there as soon as possible, he scrambles to the door and starts adjusting several switches. He has wired a battery to two leads.  He takes out a wire cutter and snips a wire. 
There is a sudden barrage of whirring and clicking sounds as the vault unlocks. 
Zed calls to Oliver from the passage. 
INT. BANK - STORAGE/ELEVATOR AREA - DAY 
Oliver is staring at the dead bodies of the manager and sub lobby teller. 
ZED(O.S.) (distant, calling from the vault) Oliver, now!  Open the vault! 
Francois runs back to Eric who has walked up to the elevator via the back office. 
INT. BANK - FREIGHT ELEVATOR - DAY 
Eric caresses his hand across the bars of gold. 
ERIC (to himself) [Smoother and more giving than the most selfless human being.  You're beautiful.] 
Francois runs in. 
FRANCOIS [Eric!] 
ERIC [Jesus, what now?] 
FRANCOIS [The police are coming in!  We're doomed!] 
ERIC [Get a hostage.] 
FRANCOIS (frantic) [They don't give a fuck about the hostages!] 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - LOBBY - DAY 
Jean becomes a berzerker and runs out into a cloud of smoke and throws the tear gas container into the thick cloud. 
Then he turns to the police and holds his own gun to his head. 
JEAN [Don't make me!] 
A single bullet passes through his torso.  As Jean falls to the ground he lets loose a round of gunfire into the ceiling. 
Oliver is still firing, his face is red like a crazed man. 
From behind the counter the sub lobby assistant grabs a hold of Claude and wrestles him to the ground. 
The other customers start to flee for cover. 
Oliver sees the fracas between the sub lobby assistant and Claude.  It looks like the sub lobby assistant is getting the upper hand.  Oliver swings his gun around and sprays machine gun fire at them...killing them both. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - SUB LOBBY - DAY 
Zoe walks up the stairs out, not only are they locked but a cloud of tear gas is pouring into the downstairs sub lobby. 
Suddenly, Zed stumbles in. 
Zed is like a zombie.  Then he notices Zoe in the stairwell. They lock eyes. 
ZED (almost delerious) Zoe... 
She steps down into the sub lobby, machine guns crackle in the background.  She runs up to him just as he slumps to the ground. 
ZOE (holding him) My Zed.  They've hurt you. 
She dabs a cloth to his cut face.  He holds it on. 
ZOE (trying to comfort him) You're going to be okay.  In many countries scars on the face are a symbol of heroism.  To proudly display a flaw like a badge...is to wear a badge of truth. 
He takes her hand. 
ZED Be serious Zoe...I can stick my tongue through my cheek. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - LOBBY - DAY 
The police are now laying it on heavy.  Francois comes out of the office. 
FRANCOIS Oliver!  Let's get a hostage! 
OLIVER This is the end! 
Francois is ripped into by machine gun fire. 
Oliver races past him. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BANK - SUB LOBBY - DAY 
Zed tries to stop Eric but Eric aims the gun at him. 
ERIC Zed no.  I'll kill you.  It means nothing to me, our friendship. 
ZED (starting out calm and then building to a scream) Eric...there's no fucking way out of here! 
ERIC Oh but you're wrong.  This is my way out. This dime store couge with her motor driven ass.  You find your own. 
Zed rushes Eric and Zoey starts scratching.  Eric drops the gun but quickly whips out his knife. 
She tries to get away from Eric but he has a hold on her shirt. 
Eric swipes at her with the knife and grazes he back. 
Then Eric slashes toward Zed who jumps back. 
Zoey falls to the floor. 
ERIC Come Zed...I'm going to cut you like a sausage. 
Zed is standing between Zoey and Eric. 
ZED Zoey, get out of here! 
She scrambles away. 
He swipes at Zed. 
Zed jumps back down the hall toward the reserve vault area. 
INT. BANK - RESERVE VAULT AREA- DAY 
They rush out toward the stairs. 
ERIC Did you see how she ran?  Did you see how she ran?  She doesn't care about you. Fucking pussy only cares about pussy. Look out for number one.  What do you say Zed? 
He swipes again. 
ERIC I will kill you.  And once I kill you Zed, I'll get out of here.  I'll fuck your bitch up the ass and give her AIDS...if she doesn't already have it. What do you say to that Zed? 
He swipes and Zed grabs a hold of the knife by the blade. 
Eric pulls it free and the knife falls to the floor. 
Zed takes this opportunity and kicks Eric in the face. 
Eric reaches for the knife. 
Zed, his hand bloody, dives onto Eric. 
Zoey also jumps onto them and starts yanking on Eric's hair. She plunges her nails into his face. 
ERIC Fucking bitch! 
Zed is rabbit punching Eric from underneath. 
Then, Eric grabs a hold of Zed's balls and squeezes. 
Zed lets out a shrill scream. 
Eric starts elbowing Zoey in the face. 
The three of them lay there on the floor wriggling like worms, unable to move because each is putting the other through such agony. 
Then, Oliver, shot up and bloody haplessly stumbles into the room.  His body is a mass of bullet wounds. 
OLIVER Ox!  Where is thy yoke!? 
He clumsily falls dead to the ground, his shotgun slides near Zoey, Zed, and Eric. 
The sight of the gun gives Eric the strength only a madman could posses.  He rolls over and throws Zoey off him. 
Then, he smashes his forehead into Zed's nose, bursting it. 
Eric, deftly, rolls over and grabs the gun. 
He gets to his feet and cocks the pump action. 
ERIC Fuck both of you. 
Then he notices the lack of gunfire upstairs. 
