PO Sorry, Dad. 
PO'S DAD Sorry doesn't make the noodles. 
Reveal that the shadow is actually caused by a basket being carried by a small DUCK. This is PO'S DAD. Po gets to work, which is not easy since the kitchen's not really made for a panda his size. 
PO'S DAD (CONT'D) What were you doing up there? All that noise. 
PO Oh, nothing. Just had a crazy dream. 
He gets back to work. 
PO'S DAD About what? 
PO Huh? 
PO'S DAD The dream. What were you dreaming about? 
PO What was I... eh, I was dreaming about uh... heh... 
Push in on Po -- is he going to admit his dream? He hides his throwing star behind his back. 
PO (CONT'D) Noodles. 
THOK. Dad stops chopping vegetables. 
PO'S DAD Noodles. You were really dreaming about noodles? 
PO Uh, yeah. What else would I be dreaming about? 
Po hands a noodle bowl to a customer, then realizes his throwing star is sitting in it. 
PO (CONT'D) (to customer) Careful, that soup is... sharp! 
PO'S DAD Oh, happy day! My son, finally having the noodle dream! 
He throws his arms around Po. 
PO'S DAD (CONT'D) You don't know how long I have been waiting for this moment. 
When Dad pulls out of the hug, Po is now wearing a noodle apron. 
PO'S DAD (CONT'D) This is a sign, Po! 
Po looks at the apron nervously -- what has he gotten himself into? 
PO Uh...a sign of what? 
PO'S DAD You are almost ready to be entrusted with the secret ingredient of my "Secret Ingredient Soup." And then you will fulfill your destiny and take over the restaurant, just as I took it over from my father, who took it over from his father, who won it from a friend in a game of mahjong. 
PO Dad Dad Dad, it was just a dream. 
PO'S DAD No, it was the dream. We are noodle folk. Broth runs through our veins. 
PO But Dad, didn't you ever, I dunno, want to do something else? Something besides noodles? 
PO'S DAD Actually... 
Po looks surprised. 
PO'S DAD (CONT'D) When I was young and crazy... 
Dad gets a wistful look in his eyes. 
Reveal Master Oogway... a wise, old tortoise. 
OOGWAY Why must something be wrong for me to want to see my old friend? 
SHIFU So... nothing's wrong? 
OOGWAY Well, I didn't say that. 
Shifu looks up, concerned. Oogway opens his mouth... and blows out a candle. And another candle. And another. 
Finally, Shifu uses his Kung Fu to blow them all out. Oogway smiles knowingly. 
SHIFU You were saying? 
OOGWAY I have had a vision... Tai Lung will return. 
Shifu looks stricken. 
FLASHBACK - INT. SCROLL ROOM 
Quick, impressionistic images of Shifu battling a large, shadowy figure (Tai Lung). 
PRESENT - INT. SCROLL ROOM 
Shifu is rattled. He looks at the claw marks that still scar the wall and quickly looks away. But he regains his composure. 
SHIFU That is impossible. He is in prison. 
OOGWAY Nothing is impossible. 
Shifu makes a split decision. 
SHIFU Zeng! 
He comes flying in. Shifu gets in his face. 
SHIFU (CONT'D) Fly to Chogun Prison and tell them to double the guards, double their weapons. Double everything! Tai Lung does not leave that prison! 
ZENG Yes, Master Shifu. 
The goose flies off, but... SMACK! He hits a column. Then he is off. Back on Oogway, as he walks toward camera, away from Shifu. 
OOGWAY One often meets his destiny on the road he takes to avoid it. 
SHIFU We have to do something. We can't just let him march on the valley, and take his revenge! He'll, he'll-- 
Oogway looks into the water of the moon pool. 
OOGWAY Your mind is like this water, my friend. When it is agitated, it becomes difficult to see. But if you allow it to settle, the answer becomes clear. 
Shifu and Oogway stare into the pool. Oogway settles the water, revealing the reflection of an intricately carved dragon clutching a SCROLL in its mouth. 
SHIFU The Dragon Scroll... 
OOGWAY It is time. 
SHIFU But who? Who is worthy to be trusted with the secret to limitless power? To become...the Dragon Warrior?! 
Dramatic music as we push in on Oogway's face. Then... 
OOGWAY I don't know. 
INT. NOODLE SHOP - DAY 
Po snaps to attention. 
Po pulls on a rope tied to a tree. 
SHIFU (O.S.) (CONT'D) And believe me citizens, you have not seen anything yet! 
PO I KNOW!! 
SHIFU (O.S.) Master Tigress! Face Iron Ox and his Blades of Death! 
Tigress sets up to deliver her move. 
Po launches himself up above the fence, gets a peek at Tigress, then falls out of view just as she does her move. 
Po lands outside the arena in a fireworks tent. 
INT. TOURNAMENT RING - DAY 
Oogway senses something. He raises his hand and the crowd hushes. 
OOGWAY I sense the Dragon Warrior is among us. 
Shifu motions for the Five to gather in the center of the ring. 
SHIFU Citizens of the Valley of Peace! Master Oogway will now choose... the Dragon Warrior! 
EXT. TOURNAMENT RING - DAY 
Po comes to. 
PO Huh? Oh no! Wait! 
He sees the fireworks and has an idea. 
PO (CONT'D) Yeah! 
INT. TOURNAMENT RING - DAY 
Oogway closes his eyes and raises his hand as ceremonial DRUMS start to play. 
EXT. TOURNAMENT RING - DAY 
Po struggles with something, his back turned to us. Reveal he has tied a load of fireworks to a chair. He hops on and lights the fuse. 
PO'S DAD (O.S.) Po?! 
Po's Dad rushes over and tries to blow out the fuse. 
PO'S DAD (CONT'D) What are you doing? 
PO What does it look like I'm doing? Stop! Stop! I'm going to see the Dragon Warrior! 
PO'S DAD But I don't understand. You finally had the noodle dream. 
Po looks uneasy. 
PO I lied. I don't dream about noodles, Dad! 
He looks at the fuse... almost all gone... Po holds onto the chair for dear life, closes his eyes, and braces himself for liftoff. 
PO (CONT'D) I love kung fuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu- 
Po finally opens his eyes... 
The crowd goes wild! They cheer! They scream! Confetti falls! A palanquin is carried past Shifu. 
SHIFU Stop! Wait! Who told you to--? 
Po stands there, utterly stunned, his mouth hanging open. He is abruptly lifted up out of shot. 
Cut to the Palace Geese straining. 
Po is being lifted with great effort on the palanquin. He is carried off. Shifu elbows his way urgently through the thronging crowd to get to Oogway. 
SHIFU (CONT'D) Master Oogway, wait! That flabby panda can't possibly be the answer to... our problem. You were about to point at Tigress. That thing fell in front of her. That was just an accident! 
OOGWAY There are no accidents. 
Oogway smiles benignly as we hear an off-screen CRASH! 
The camera adjusts to reveal the palanquin has collapsed under Po. 
Shifu looks at Oogway. Oogway just smiles. 
A squad of burly pigs rushes in and hoists Po, the palanquin, and the Geese onto their shoulders, and they head off for the Jade Palace. Stunned, Shifu watches them go. 
Behind him, the Five approach and bow. 
TIGRESS Forgive us, Master. We have failed you. 
Shifu spins around. 
SHIFU No. If the panda has not quit by morning, then I will have failed you. 
Confetti flutters through the air as the celebration continues around them. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. PRISON -- NIGHT 
A huge prison is carved into the side of a frozen mountain. Fifteen stories of iron and rock. No windows. One door -- locked, bolted and sealed tight. Rhinoceros guards in armor patrol the perimeter. 
Zeng, the palace goose, flies into frame and a Rhino Sentry spots him in the distance. He lands, sliding on the ice and crashing into the gate. The rhinos point their spears at him. 
ZENG Wait wait wait! I bring a message from Master Shifu. 
CLANG! The doors creak open. The terrified goose peers in. 
CUT TO: 
INT. PRISON -- A MOMENT LATER 
COMMANDER What?!?! (reading) "Double the guard?! Extra precautions?! Your prison may not be adequate!" 
The Goose is quaking in fear. Stern Rhinos surround him, staring daggers at him. The Commander snaps the scroll shut. 
COMMANDER (CONT'D) You doubt my prison's security? 
ZENG Absolutely not. (then) Shifu does. I'm just the messenger. 
COMMANDER I'll give you a message for your Master Shifu. 
ON A BRIDGE 
COMMANDER Escape from Chogun Prison is impossible! 
The Goose is awed by the cavernous prison. 
The Commander starts to walk back to the elevator. The goose hurries after him. 
The goose's feather flutters into frame. We follow the feather as it lands right in front of Tai Lung. 
HIS EYES OPEN. Tai Lung grabs the feather with his tail. 
INT. JADE PALACE - HALLWAY 
The palace doors open to reveal Po on the palanquin, hundreds of villagers behind him. 
CROWD (chanting) Dragon Warrior! Dragon Warrior! 
Po is ushered in and the doors close. He is alone. He runs back to the closed palace doors. 
PO Wait a second! Hello? Uh...I think there's been a slight mistake. Everyone seems to think that I'm, uh... 
Po finally realizes where he is. 
PO (CONT'D) Whoa. The Sacred Hall of Warriors. No way! Would you look at this place! 
He rushes up to a display of armor. 
PO (CONT'D) (GASP) Master Flying Rhino's Armor! With authentic battle damage! 
He rushes up to a green sword, making sure not to touch it. 
PO (CONT'D) (GASP) The Sword of Heroes! Said to be so sharp you can cut yourself just by looking-- OW! 
He stares at a black sopt on the wall. 
PO (CONT'D) (GASP) The Invisible Trident of Destiny!? 
He admires a painting. 
PO (CONT'D) (GASP) I've only seen paintings of that painting... 
Po runs around the room, amazed by all the ancient kung fu artifacts. Something special catches Po's eye. 
PO (CONT'D) (loudly) Nooo! Ohhhh! 
He runs over to it. 
PO (CONT'D) The legendary Urn of Whispering Warriors! Said to contain the souls of the entire Tenshu army. (calling into vase) Hellooo? 
SHIFU Have you finished sight-seeing? 
Po GASPS. 
PO (to vase) Sorry. I should've come to see you first. 
SHIFU My patience is wearing thin. 
PO (to vase) Oh. Well, I mean, it's not like you were going anywhere. 
SHIFU Would you turn around? 
PO Sure. 
Po turns and sees Shifu. 
PO (CONT'D) Hey, how's it going? 
Po turns back to the vase. 
SHIFU Oh, then you must know what happens when I flex my pinky. 
Po nervously eyes his finger locked in Shifu's grip and nods quickly. 
PO No no no! 
SHIFU You know the hardest part of this? The hardest part is cleaning up afterwards... 
PO Okay! Okay! Take it easy... 
SHIFU Now listen closely, panda. Oogway may have picked you, but when I'm through with you, I promise you, you're going to wish he hadn't. Are we clear? 
PO Yeah, we're clear. We're clear. We are so clear. 
SHIFU Good. I can't wait to get started. 
INT. TRAINING HALL 
The doors open, revealing Po nursing his wounded finger. Shifu steps out of the way and Po's face goes into shock. The Five are performing death-defying kung fu moves in the training hall. Tigress smashes a swinging, spiked ball of wood. ANGLE ON AN AWESTRUCK PO, as shards of wood blast into his face. Po is intimidated and overwhelmed. 
Shifu scowls at Po. 
SHIFU Let's begin. 
He gestures to the gauntlet. Po's eyes go wide. 
PO Wait wait wait...What? Now? 
SHIFU Yes...now. Unless you think the great Oogway was wrong, and you are not the Dragon Warrior. 
PO Oh, okay. Well-- I don't know if I can do all of those moves. 
Shifu walks away and Po half-heartedly follows. 
SHIFU Well, if we don't try, we'll never know will we? 
PO Uh, yeah. It's just, maybe we can find something more suited to my level. 
SHIFU And what level is that? 
PO Well, ya know...I'm not a master, but uh, let's just start at zero, level zero. 
SHIFU There is no such thing as level zero. 
PO Hey! Maybe I can start with that. 
Po points at a rather friendly-looking dummy. 
SHIFU That? We use that for training children. And for propping the door open when it's hot. But if you insist... 
Relieved, Po turns to the dummy. The Five gather around him. 
PO Whoa. The Furious Five. You're so much bigger than your action figures -- except for you, Mantis. You're about the same. 
Mantis gives him a look. 
SHIFU Go ahead, panda. Show us what you can do. 
PO Um, are they gonna watch? Or should I just wait until they get back to work or something... 
SHIFU Hit it. 
PO Ok. I mean, I just ate. So I'm still digesting... So my kung fu might not be as good as later on. 
CRANE Yeah, or could at least touch his toes. 
MONKEY Or even see his toes. 
As the others walk off, we reveal Po, who unbeknownst to them has been walking behind them this whole time, hearing everything. 
He attempts to look at his toes but just sees gut. He lifts up his stomach, leans forward... leans... leans... and falls over. 
He gets up and watches them go inside. He sighs. 
INT. BUNKHOUSE 
Po peeks around the corner. 
PO Okay. 
He tip-toes into the hall. 
SQUEAK. The floorboards strain beneath him. SQUEAK. 
PO (CONT'D) (whispering) Great. 
Po takes a gentle step. CRE-E-E-A-AA--CHUNK! Po's foot goes through the floor. Po tries to recover. SQUEAK-SQUEAK-SQUEAK! THUNK! Po rolls his ankle and stumbles through a bedroom door. 
Crane is staring back at him. 
PO (CONT'D) Oh hey...hi. You're up. 
CRANE Am now. 
PO I was just uh... Some day huh? That kung fu stuff is hard work, right? Your biceps sore? 
Crane looks at his wing. 
CRANE Um...I've had a long and rather disappointing day, so uh...yeah, I should probably get to sleep now. 
PO Yeah yeah yeah, of course. 
CRANE (relieved) Okay, thanks. 
PO It's just...I'm such a big fan. 
CRANE Oop. 
PO You guys were totally amazing at the Battle of Weeping River. Outnumbered a thousand to one, but you didn't stop, and then you just... HI-YAH! 
Po does a spastic series of Kung Fu moves. We hear a RIP, and reveal that he's kicked his foot through the paper wall. 
PO (CONT'D) Ooo, sorry about that. 
CRANE Look, you don't belong here. 
Po looks stung to be hearing this from one of his heroes. 
PO I know. I know. You're right. I just - my whole life I've dreamed of- 
Crane stops Po before he embarrasses himself even more. 
CRANE No no no... I meant you don't belong here. I mean, in this room. This is my room. Property of Crane. 
Po is mortified, but covers. 
PO Oh, okay. Right right. Yeah, you want to get to sleep. 
Oogway hits the tree with his staff as he walks away and a peach falls into Po's open hand. 
INT. PRISON -- NIGHT 
Using the goose's feather to pick the lock, Tai Lung BURSTS free from his armor. 
An ALARM RINGS OUT! 
The Commander runs to the ledge, the Goose right behind him. 
ZENG What's happening?! 
The Goose looks over the edge and sees Tai Lung at the bottom of the pit. 
Tai Lung struggles with his shackles. 
COMMANDER Fire Crossbows! 
Tai Lung uses the incoming spears to break his shackles and then manages to kick the spears back up into the walls, creating a makeshift staircase. 
ZENG Tai Lung is free! I must warn Shifu! 
The Commander shuts the Goose up. 
COMMANDER You're not going anywhere. And neither is he. 
ZENG Let go of me! 
COMMANDER (to guards) Bring it up! 
The winch turns and the elevator starts to rise. A rhino guard tries to reach it, but just misses. 
RHINO GUARD #1 Wait! Bring it back! 
ZENG He's coming this way! 
COMMANDER He won't get far. (to guards) Archers! 
Leaping across the spears, Tai Lung catches the elevator as the volley of arrows flies down past him. 
The guards cut the rope and the elevator crashes back down to the bottom of the pit. 
Tai Lung swings up from the bottom of the elevator house and catches the guards by surprise. He grabs the chain and jumps over the edge and swings around, launching himself up to the next tier, disappearing into the shadows. 
Tai Lung lands on a bridge, fights his way through, finally reaching the top tier where the Commander and the rest of the Rhino army await. 
ZENG We're dead. So very, very dead. 
The Commander hushes the Goose. 
COMMANDER (to Goose) Heh heh...not yet we're not! Now! 
Archers set off charges on the ceiling. Massive stalactites crash down and the bridge begins to crumble. Tai Lung leaps across the crumbling debris and attempts one last huge jump towards the Commander. But he falls short, claws scraping and sparking against the rock wall. The Commander laughs maniacally. 
On his way down, Tai Lung looks up and sees a fuse burning down to the last group of explosives. He leaps across the raining debris up to the ceiling of the cavern. 
Grabbing a hold of the dynamite, Tai Lung falls and slings it ahead of him at the guards. 
ZENG Can we run now? 
COMMANDER Yes. 
EXT. PRISON 
Crane gingerly grabs Po's waistband and attempts to pull him up by flapping his wings. 
PO Maybe on three. One. Two- 
Crane pulls him up and Po flops onto his back. 
PO (CONT'D) Threeeee. Thank you. 
CRANE Don't mention it. 
PO No really, I appreci-- 
CRANE --EVER. 
SHIFU You actually thought you could learn to do a full split in one night? It takes years to develop one's flexibility and years longer to apply it in combat. 
Shifu flings two boards into the air. Instantly, Tigress leaps up and executes a perfect split kick. Po is awestruck. As Tigress lands, the broken chunks of board land all around Po, knocking him on the head. 
Po collects a piece of splintered board as a souvenir. Shifu notices and steps forward. 
SHIFU (CONT'D) Put that down! The only souvenirs we collect here are bloody knuckles and broken bones. 
PO Yeah, excellent! 
He laughs excitedly and salutes Shifu. 
SHIFU Let's get started. 
CUT TO: 
MONTAGE 
Shifu snaps his fingers. Viper and Po face off. 
VIPER Are you ready? 
PO I was born ready-- 
Viper lashes her tail around Po's wrist, wrenches his arm back, flings him into the air and brings him crashing back down on his head. 
PO (CONT'D) Eaghhh... 
VIPER I'm sorry, brother! I thought you said you were ready! 
PO That was awesome! Let's go again. (salutes) 
Shifu snaps. 
Monkey twirls a bamboo staff. He lunges at Po who takes a comical beating. 
Shifu snaps. 
Po and Crane prepare to spar atop the turtle bowl. CRASH. Po falls in and is tossed around like a sack of soup. 
Shifu snaps. 
We see a series of shots of Po falling on his face at the hands of some invisible opponent, who turns out to be... Mantis. 
Shifu smiles. Flat on his back, Po manages a salute. Shifu has had it. 
SHIFU I've been taking it easy on you, panda, but no more! Your next opponent... will be me. 
Po looks excited. 
...But Mantis is now on his other shoulder. He jabs another needle into Po. 
PO Ow! 
VIPER Maybe you should take a look at this again. 
Viper is holding a diagram of acupuncture meridians (onto which someone has overlaid a drawing of a panda.) 
MANTIS (re: diagram) Oh! Okay. 
Quick cuts to Monkey meditating in his room and Crane doing calligraphy in his. Po's yelps distract them. 
PO Ow! Don't... (laughing) Stop it, stop-- Yow! I know Master Shifu's trying to inspire me and all, but if I didn't know any better, I'd say he was trying to get rid of me. 
Po chuckles. The others look at each other and chuckle awkwardly. 
MANTIS I know he can seem kind of heartless-- 
He violently jabs another needle in Po. 
MANTIS (CONT'D) But, ya know, he wasn't always like that. 
VIPER According to legend, there was once a time when Master Shifu actually used to smile. 
PO No. 
MANTIS Yes. 
Cut to Tigress out in the hallway. She can hear them talking. 
VIPER But that was before... 
PO Before what? 
Tigress enters. 
TIGRESS Before Tai Lung. 
Crane's shadow is silhouetted on the wall. 
CRANE Uh yeah, we're not really supposed to talk about him. 
TIGRESS Well, if he's going to stay here, he should know. 
PO (trying to ease the tension) Guys, guys. I know about Tai Lung. 
Tigress turns to Po. 
PO (CONT'D) He was a student, the first ever to master the thousand... 
Tigress approaches Po and leans in towards him. 
PO (CONT'D) (nervously trailing off) ...scrolls of... kung fu... and... then he turned bad... and now he's in jail. 
Tigress shakes her head at the panda's ignorance. 
TIGRESS He wasn't just a student. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. TRAINING HALL 
FLASHBACK. Shifu peeks out of the Training Hall and finds a baby leopard cub on the steps. 
Satisfied with the silence, Shifu nods and resumes his meditation. 
SHIFU (CONT'D) Inner... 
BOOM. Zeng drops in from the ceiling. 
SHIFU (CONT'D) Oh, Zeng. Excellent. I could use some good news right now. 
ZENG Uh... 
CUT TO: 
EXT. JADE PALACE GROUNDS - EVENING 
Oogway stands under the peach tree, deep in thought. Shifu rushes in, emerging from the mist, extremely agitated. 
SHIFU Master! Master! 
OOGWAY Hmmm? 
SHIFU (out of breath) I have-- it's-- it's very bad news. 
OOGWAY Ah, Shifu. There is just news. There is no good or bad. 
SHIFU Master, your vision...your vision was right. Tai Lung has broken out of prison. He's on his way! 
OOGWAY That is bad news... 
He turns to face Shifu and stares at him, eyebrow raised. 
OOGWAY (CONT'D) ...If you do not believe that the Dragon Warrior can stop him. 
SHIFU The panda? Master, that panda is not the Dragon Warrior. (MORE) 
SHIFU (CONT'D) He wasn't even meant to be here -- it was an accident! 
OOGWAY There are no accidents. 
SHIFU Yes, I know. You've said that already. Twice. 
OOGWAY Well, that was no accident either. 
SHIFU Thrice. 
OOGWAY My old friend, the panda will never fulfill his destiny, nor you yours, until you let go of the illusion of control. 
SHIFU Illusion? 
OOGWAY Yeah. Look at this tree, Shifu. I cannot make it blossom when it suits me, nor make it bear fruit before its time. 
SHIFU But there are things we can control. 
Shifu kicks the tree and a peach falls to his feet. 
SHIFU (CONT'D) I can control when the fruit will fall. 
A peach falls on his head and Oogway chuckles. Shifu tosses the peach in the air, leaps up, and splits it with a chop. 
SHIFU (CONT'D) And I can control-- 
Shifu punches the ground, creating a hole and places the seed in it. 
SHIFU (CONT'D) --where to plant the seed. That is no illusion, Master. 
CRANE Wow, you're a really good cook. 
MANTIS I wish my mouth was bigger. 
The others laugh. But not Tigress. 
MONKEY Tigress, you gotta try this. 
Tigress looks up from her meal. 
TIGRESS It is said that the Dragon Warrior can survive for months at a time on nothing but the dew of a single gingko leaf and the energy of the universe. 
On the others for a beat. Then Po shrugs. 
PO I guess my body doesn't know it's the Dragon Warrior yet. I'm gonna need a lot more than dew. And, uh, universe juice. 
Po laughs. He picks up his bowl and takes a giant gulp. When he lowers the bowl, we see a noodle hanging from his face -- it looks like a moustache. Mantis snickers. 
PO (CONT'D) What? 
MANTIS Oh, nothing... Master Shifu! 
The rest start laughing. Po realizes he's wearing a noodle moustache. He plays it up. 
PO (imitating Shifu) You will never be the Dragon Warrior, unless you lose five hundred pounds and brush your teeth! 
The Five LAUGH. 
PO (CONT'D) (imitating Shifu) What is that noise you're making? Laughter? I never heard of it! 
The Five keep LAUGHING. Po reaches over and grabs two empty bowls and holds them up like ears. 
PO (CONT'D) (imitating Shifu) Work hard, Panda. And maybe, someday... you will have ears like mine. 
As the rest of the Five laugh, Tigress sneaks a moment to smell Po's soup. Leaning towards the bowl, she suddenly looks up and stops. The Five also look up and stop laughing. 
Reveal Shifu has entered behind Po. He is holding Oogway's staff. 
PO (CONT'D) (normal) Ears. It's not working for you? I thought they were pretty good. 
Po looks at the stone-faced Five. Tigress jumps to her feet. 
MONKEY It's Shifu. 
PO Of course it's Shifu. What do you think I'm doing? 
He finally notices Shifu standing there, doing a slow burn. Embarrassed, he places the soup bowls on his chest like a bra. 
PO (CONT'D) Ooh! Master Shifu! 
Po slurps up the noodle moustache. Monkey can't help but snicker. 
SHIFU You think this is funny? Tai Lung has escaped from prison and you're acting like children! 
PO What? 
SHIFU He is coming for the Dragon Scroll, and you are the only one who can stop him. 
The bowls fall off. A beat as this sinks in... then Po starts to laugh. 
PO And here I am saying you got no sense of humor. I'm gonna stop Tai... 
Shifu just stares at him, deadly serious. 
PO That's what I thought. 
Shifu walks away, leaving the path open to Po. 
EXT. JADE PALACE - NIGHT 
Tigress stands in the moonlight outside the palace. She has seen what just transpired between Shifu and Po. 
She turns away, a look of resolve on her face... and LEAPS. 
She flies through the air, finally landing on a rooftop in the valley below. She looks back up at the palace. 
TIGRESS This is what you trained me for. 
She takes off running. 
The other four are right behind her. 
VIPER Tigress! 
She keeps going and they give chase. 
TIGRESS Don't try and stop me! 
The chase continues through the village. 
VIPER We're not trying to stop you! 
TIGRESS What? 
VIPER We're coming with you! 
Then...the others join her. Tigress smiles. They leap off into the night. 
EXT. JADE PALACE - EVENING 
Night dissolves to dawn. Shifu sits under the peach tree. He stirs, hearing KUNG FU NOISES from the training hall. He goes to investigate. 
CUT TO: 
INT. TRAINING HALL - DAWN 
Shifu looks inside -- it's empty. The NOISES continue from somewhere else -- the bunkhouse. 
CUT TO: 
INT. KITCHEN - DAWN 
As Shifu turns the corner he sees Po's shadow as he performs some amazing Kung Fu. 
Entering the kitchen, Shifu finds Po is stuffing his face with food. Seeing Shifu, he stops mid-munch. 
In silence they eye each other. Shifu surveys the room -- broken lock, smashed doors, unhinged cabinets. Po belches. 
PO (mouth full) What? I eat when I'm upset, okay? 
Shifu gets a glimmer in his eye. He has an idea. 
SHIFU Oh, no need to explain. I just thought you might be Monkey -- he hides his almond cookies on the top shelf. 
Shifu calmly exits and hides just outside the doorway, waiting to see if his hunch is correct. 
KLUMP! KLONK! THUNK! Shifu peeks back inside and finds Po perched atop the high shelves jamming more cookies into his mouth. Po notices Shifu walking back in. 
With a crash, he suddenly appears behind the Five. 
TAI LUNG Shifu taught you well... 
Tai Lung jabs a finger at Monkey, who instantly freezes. 
TAI LUNG (CONT'D) But he didn't teach you everything. 
Tai lung lunges toward the rest. 
EXT. TRAINING HALL - EVENING 
Shifu and Po walk through the palace courtyard. Po has an easy spring in his step. 
SHIFU You have done well, Panda. 
PO Done well? Done well?! I've done awesome! 
He swings his belly around and knocks Shifu off balance. 
Shifu staggers back, regaining his dignity. 
SHIFU The mark of a true hero is humility! 
After a moment's thought, though, he leans toward Po - 
SHIFU (CONT'D) But yes...you have done awesome. 
And he punches him playfully on the arm. Po smiles at him. As they LAUGH, an indistinct figure appears in the clouds behind them. IT'S CRANE! 
Crane carries the five to the palace grounds, crashing in a heap. 
PO Huh? Guys? Guys! 
Po throws his backpack aside and runs over to them. 
PO (CONT'D) They're dead? No, they're breathing! They're asleep?! No, their eyes are open. 
Crane struggles to lift his head. 
CRANE We were no match for his nerve attack. 
His head collapses to the ground. 
SHIFU He has gotten stronger. 
PO Who? Tai Lung? Stronger? 
Shifu starts freeing the Five. First Viper, then Mantis, then Monkey releases suddenly from his paralysis - 
MONKEY He's too fast! 
He delivers a Kung Fu punch to Po's head and then slowly realizes where he is. 
MONKEY (CONT'D) Sorry, Po. 
Shifu kneels before Tigress and works to free her. 
TIGRESS I thought we could stop him. 
SHIFU He could have killed you. 
MANTIS Why didn't he? 
SHIFU What? 
PO Here! Look! 
Po tries to show Shifu the scroll. Shifu covers his eyes and turns his head away. 
SHIFU No! I am forbidden to look upon-- 
But he can't help himself. He takes a peek. Then he GRABS if off Po. He turns it around, then upside down. He closes it and opens it again, astonished. 
SHIFU (CONT'D) Blank? I don't...I don't understand. 
Shifu turns away, contemplative. What can this mean? 
PO Okay. So like, Oogway was just a crazy old turtle after all? 
SHIFU No. Oogway was wiser than us all. 
Po sits heavily on the floor, dejected. 
PO Oh, come on! Face it. He picked me by accident. Of course I'm not the Dragon Warrior. Who am I kidding? 
The Five don't argue. 
TIGRESS But who will stop Tai Lung? 
CRANE He'll destroy everything...and everyone. 
Shifu puts the scroll back in its container and seals it. He looks oddly calm as he turns around. 
SHIFU No, evacuate the Valley. You must protect the villagers from Tai Lung's rage. 
TIGRESS What about you master? 
SHIFU I will fight him. 
PO What? 
SHIFU I can hold him off long enough for everyone to escape. 
PO But Shifu, he'll kill you. 
SHIFU Then I will finally have paid for my mistake. 
The Five and Po look devastated. 
SHIFU (CONT'D) Listen to me, all of you. It is time for you to continue your journey without me. I am very proud to have been your master. 
Shifu salutes them and turns away. Po is heartbroken. Crane steps forward and kindly puts a wing around Po, pulling away. 
Po resists for a moment, then lets the Five lead him off. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. VALLEY 
The Five arrive at the base of the stairs. 
TIGRESS We've got to get them out safely. 
Monkey picks up a small child. 
MONKEY Come, little one. Let's find your mama. 
PO There is no secret ingredient... 
Po turns back to look at the palace. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. JADE PALACE - DAWN 
At the top of the stairs, Shifu looks upon the Valley, awaiting his fate. With a gust of wind, Tai Lung appears before him. 
TAI LUNG I have come home, Master. 
SHIFU This is no longer your home. And I am no longer your master. 
TAI LUNG Yes. You have a new favorite. So where is this...Po? Did I scare him off? 
SHIFU This battle is between you and me. 
TAI LUNG So. That is how it's going to be? 
SHIFU That is how it must be. 
They fight. At last. Tai Lung punches Shifu clean through the doors of the Jade Palace. 
Tai Lung enters. 
TAI LUNG I rotted in jail for twenty years because of your weakness! 
SHIFU Obeying your master is not weakness! 
TAI LUNG You knew I was the Dragon Warrior! You always knew... 
Dissolve to FLASHBACK. 
A young Tai Lung looks expectant. Oogway shakes his head. 
TAI LUNG (V.O.) (CONT'D) But when Oogway said otherwise, what did you do? What did you do?! 
Tai Lung looks to Shifu who averts his eyes and the past dissolves into the present. 
TAI LUNG (CONT'D) NOTHING! 
Shifu takes a Kung Fu stance. 
SHIFU You were not meant to be the Dragon Warrior! That was not my fault! 
TAI LUNG NOT YOUR FAULT?! 
Enraged, Tai Lung knocks over the Kung Fu artifacts and throws them at Shifu. 
TAI LUNG (CONT'D) WHO FILLED MY HEAD WITH DREAMS?! WHO DROVE ME TO TRAIN UNTIL MY BONES CRACKED?! WHO DENIED ME MY DESTINY?! 
Shifu dodges each attack. 
SHIFU It was never my decision to make! 
Tai Lung pulls Oogway's staff from the shrine. 
TAI LUNG It is now. 
They fight. Tai Lung pins Shifu down with the staff. 
TAI LUNG (CONT'D) Give me the scroll! 
Up and over the rooftops, Po lands in a grove of bamboo trees and into a nearby wok shop. The scroll rolls to a stop in the street. 
As Tai Lung makes his move on the scroll, Po turns the array of overturned woks into a shell game, sliding the woks around to hide the scroll. 
PO Lightning! 
Tai Lung knocks the woks away and exposes the scroll as Po uses his bamboo stilts to block Tai Lung. The leopard swipes out the stilts and brings Po down on top of him as the scroll rolls down the steps towards the river. 
Po gets thrown into a fireworks booth. As Tai Lung chases down the scroll, he turns back to see Po flying through the fireworks-filled sky. 
Po slams through Tai Lung and crashes into a rock wall. The scroll flies out of his hand and lands in the mouth of an ornamental rooftop dragon. He looks back at Tai Lung, who sees where the scroll has landed. Via the magic of cookie- vision, Po effortlessly scales the building. Tai Lung is shocked. 
TAI LUNG The scroll has given him power. (then) NOOO0!! 
He takes a giant leap and kicks the wall. The resulting shockwave collapses the building. 
Amazingly, Po skips across the falling roof tiles to reach the scroll in mid-air as Tai Lung leaps up behind him and unleashes a punishing blow that sends Po smashing into the ground. As Tai Lung lands, he delivers a final devastating punch. 
As the dust settles, Tai Lung is looming over Po in the impact crater. 
TAI LUNG (CONT'D) (out of breath) Finally... oh yes... the power of the Dragon Scroll... is mine! 
Tai Lung grabs for the scroll and opens it. His face falls. 
TAI LUNG (CONT'D) It's NOTHING!! 
Po stirs. 
PO It's okay. I didn't get it the first time either. 
TAI LUNG (disbelief) What? 
Po gets to his feet. 
PO There is no secret ingredient. It's just you. 
Tai Lung snarls and lunges at Po. 
TAI LUNG RRRAAAH! 
PO AAAAGGGHH! 
Tai Lung attacks Po's nerve points. But Po begins giggling. 
PO (CONT'D) Stop! Stop it! I'm gonna pee! Don't! Don't! 
Tai Lung's nerve attack has no effect on Po. Frustrated, he delivers a double-fisted punch to Po's belly. 
The shockwave ripples through Po's entire body and Po's arms come back and strike Tai Lung, sending the leopard crashing back into a building. Po looks at his hands, amazed at what he just did. 
Tai Lung rises from the rubble and runs at Po again. But Po strikes back, using an unorthodox panda-style technique, even getting Tai Lung to chomp down on his own tail. Po gives Tai Lung a butt bump that sends him crashing into a building. Tai Lung emerges and attempts one more lunge at Po. But Po prepares... and Tai Lung is swiftly met by Po's IRON BELLY! He is launched into the air. Po waits... and waits... until finally, Tai Lung appears in the sky and crashes to the ground. 
Tai Lung is battered, but still defiant. 
TAI LUNG (heavy breathing) You... can't defeat me. You're just a big, fat panda! 
SCHWING! Po grabs Tai Lung's finger. Tai Lung's eyes go wide. 
PO I'm not a big, fat panda. I'm the big, fat panda. 
Po's pinky pops up. Tai Lung gasps. 
TAI LUNG The Wuxi Finger Hold! 
