"THE LADYKILLERS" 
Screenplay by 
Joel Coen and Ethan Coen 
Based on the 1955 movie 
"The Ladykillers" 
by William Rose 
EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - DAY 
A BOAT 
Specifically, a garbage scow. 
We see it from ON HIGH, chugging down the placid but mighty Mississippi. 
Head credits play over COVERAGE of the garbage scow. No sound, except for an incongruously heroic score. 
The COVERAGE is a little rough, coarse-grained; along with the overbearing score it almost suggests an industrial film rather than a feature. 
One piece of sound -- the toot of the boat's horn -- is obviously library. And not a new library either. 
The garbage scow passes under a bridge spanning the broad, sluggish waters, and proceeds on to its landfill, a steaming river island. Disturbed gulls and other scavenger birds rise from where they were picking through trash. Their squawks, like the boat horn, are not quite believable as SYNC. 
The head credits end as the anthemic music resolves. 
EXT. SAUCIER, MISSISSIPPI - DAY 
AN OLD HOUND DOG 
lies on the weather-grayed and -roughened planking of a front porch. The porch is half-shaded from the noonday sun. It is quiet except for the chirr of heat bugs, close by, and, very distant, many voices in chorus, engaged in divine worship in a Baptist church sufficiently far away that vagaries of breeze fan them in and out of audibility. 
We once again hear the toot of the scow's horn, distant now and played as real, not slapdash effect. At this, the dog lifts his nose to catch the breeze, sniffs, and then, whining, lowers his head to the floor and covers his snout with his forepaws. He huffs briefly and goes to sleep. 
We DRIFT UP to show that the dog is sleeping before the 
SAUCIER WORM STORE 
Your source for worms, lures, etcetera, etcetera... 
We TRAVEL OVER TO REVEAL that the modest one-story structure houses two establishments; its other front door leads to the 
SAUCIER MUNICIPAL BUILDING. 
A campaign sign in the window on the municipal side shows a black man of late middle-age beaming and giving the viewer a thumbs-up: 
RE-ELECT WAYNE WYNER SHERIFF/He Is Too Old to Go to Work. 
INT. SAUCIER MUNICIPAL BUILDING - DAY 
We hear snoring on top of a low, steady hissing sound. 
We are DRIFTING toward the door of the lock-up, which stands open. The small cell is empty, its bed neatly made. 
A KEY 
We are ARCING slowly around a jailer's key on a ring that hangs from a nail. The OFFSCREEN snoring and whirring continues. 
The TRACK'S SHIFTING ANGLE now makes the light catch a spider web spun between the key and the wall. 
POLICE SCANNER 
We DRIFT across the face of the radio. The peaceful steady hissing jumps in louder at the CUT: it is uninterrupted: a transmissionless, crimeless, misdemeanorless idle radio hiss. 
The snoring is also louder here. As we TRAVEL OFF the radio we are COMING ONTO a pair of feet propped up on the desktop. 
They belong to SHERIFF WYNER, tipped back in his chair, fingers laced on his chest, head lolling forward. 
As the MOVING CAMERA FINALLY ENDS on him, there is the ring of a telephone -- muffled, not present. 
It nevertheless rouses the sheriff who almost strangles on a snore as he awakes, and then rocks forward to pick up his phone. 
SHERIFF WYNER Sheriff Wyner... 
The muffled ringing continues; the sheriff looks, puzzled, at the phone. Now the ringing stops and we hear a muffled voice next door: 
VOICE (O.S.) Worms. 
The sheriff replaces the phone, leans back again, adjusts his hat, and is about to go back to sleep when we hear the front door open. 
The sheriff looks and reacts with genuine, if momentary, fear. 
He manages to compose himself and give the intruder a smile: 
SHERIFF WYNER Afternoon, Miz Munson. 
Entering is an elderly black woman in a floral print dress and fruited bonnet. 
With a neatly tended garden. It is the last house on a street of other similarly modest but well maintained homes; beyond it the street disappears down a bluff. The empty space beyond suggests a wide river, and indeed we can see the top of an anchored, gaudily painted paddle-boat poking over the rise. The paddle-boat is apparently anchored at the near bank of the river. 
Mrs. Munson is entering by the gate. She stops in the garden and stoops to pull a tiny weed marring the otherwise perfect row of flowers. 
I/E. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - DAY 
Mrs. Munson lets herself in. A cat lopes up to her, the bell around its neck tinkling, and leans mewing into her leg. 
MRS. MUNSON You need somethin' to eat, Angel? 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 
Mrs. Munson hand-cranks a can opener around a tin of cat food. 
MRS. MUNSON Mm... gizzards... 
The cat paces back and forth between her legs, leaning into them and purring, responding to the snap of tin as the cover comes off the can. 
The can contains cubed processed gizzard in a gelatinous medium like the stuff that clings to gefilte fish. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Above the fireplace is an oil portrait of a serious-looking black man of late middle-age with a neatly groomed mustache starting to gray. A couple of candles sit on the mantel below the portrait, giving it the semblance of a shrine. 
Mrs. Munson enters and lights the candles. 
MRS. MUNSON Othar, I went'n complained about WeeMack, I hope it'll do some good. That boy hangin' by a thread! Over the pit! Fiery pit! "I Left My Wallet in El Segundo"! 
She shakes out the match and sits in a rocker and takes up her knitting. As she sits she gives an audible groan. 
MRS. MUNSON ...Sixty-seven years of life, forty- six years of marriage, you mean to tell me you never one time suffered from piles? It's the human condition, most humans anyway. Like that ball player said: world's got two kinds of folks -- them that's got piles and them that's gonna get 'em. But you was always healthy as an ox... 
There is the distant moan of a riverboat horn. 
MRS. MUNSON ...Passed on before you got piles. Mmmmhmm. Thank the Lord you wasn't sick. You don't wanna sicken 'n die. No, you wanna pass nice 'n peaceful... go to sleep one night, wake up in the glory land... woof... 
A gust of wind hums under the eaves; the candles below the portrait flicker. As Mrs. Munson looks around the room, vaguely towards the ceiling, sensing a negative aura, the cat arches its back and hisses. 
At this moment the doorbell rings. 
MRS. MUNSON ...Well who's that now, Pickles? 
She grunts as she hoists herself out of the chair. 
I/E. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT 
She opens the door-- 
A draft-- 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
The candles below the portrait of Othar go out, sending up thin wisps of smoke. 
I/E. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT 
The cat shrieks and bolts out the door, past the man on the stoop: GOLDTHWAIT HIGGINSON DORR, III. 
He is a middle-aged Southern gentleman wearing a panama hat and a cape over a cream-colored suit. He has dark circles under his eyes. The smile he attempts, mournful yet courtly, is wiped away by: 
MRS. MUNSON PICKLES! 
DORR Ma'am? 
MRS. MUNSON Go get 'im! 
DORR I do beg your pardon? 
MRS. MUNSON Go get Pickles, I didn't let 'im out! 
DORR (tasting the name) Pickles... 
EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT 
Dorr walks down the stoop followed by the old lady. 
MRS. MUNSON Oh, he's up the tree again. Your gonna have to shimmy on up. 
DORR I am so terribly sorry, madam. But won't the feline eventually tire of his lonely perch and, pining for his master's affection, return on his own initiative? 
MRS. MUNSON Huh? No, he won't come down less you fetch him. He'd set there til Gabriel blows his horn if someone didn't shimmy up. Up with you now! 
DORR Well then couldn't we perhaps offer him kitty treats and enticements, or if not foodstuffs perhaps squeaky little toys of the kind formerly manufactured in Hong Kong but now produced in the other so-called "Little Tigers"... 
His fingers form the quotes. 
DORR ...of the Pacific Rim? The point bein', do we have to actually ascend the tree-- 
MRS. MUNSON Look, I don't want no doubletalk. If you ain't gonna fetch him down I guess I gotta call the po-lice... 
DORR Police... 
DORR Madam, I shudder. I quake. The revulsion I feel for modern popular music, and all other manifestations of contemporary decay, is, I have no doubt, the equal of y'own. Why, we play music that was composed to the greater glory of God. Devotional music. Church music. 
MRS. MUNSON Gospel music? 
DORR Well-inspired by the gospels, certainly. The vintage, of course, is no more recent than the Rococo. 
MRS. MUNSON Rococo, huh? Well, I guess that'd be okay. 
DORR But I certainly don't propose to inflict our rehearsals on you. May I enquire -- do you have a root cellar? 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT 
Dorr ducks while descending the steep, narrow stair in order to avoid an overhead beam. He is followed by Mrs. Munson. 
DORR Yes, yes, yes, this looks promising... 
He pulls on a hanging string to light a bare bulb overhead. 
MRS. MUNSON Little dank, ain't it? 
DORR Oh, indeed, but that only improves the acoustics... 
He experimentally claps his hands. 
DORR ...Marvelous. These earthen walls are ideal for baffling the higher registers of the, uh, lute and, uh, sackbutt. That's why so much music of the cinquecento was played in crypts and catacombs. Yes, this will do nicely... 
He dry-washes his hands with enthusiasm, but his tone remains mournful. 
DORR ...This is perfect. This is more than perfect. I can scarcely contain my glee. 
MRS. MUNSON You containing it okay. 
He starts to peel cash out of a large, well-worn billfold: 
DORR Allow me to pay you a week in advance. Allow me to pay you two weeks in advance. Allow me to pay you a month in advance. I cannot countenance the thought of these charming apartments being tenanted by someone unappreciative of their special je ne sais quoi. 
MRS. MUNSON That would be a shame. 
INT. CASINO - DAY 
TRACKING ON A GARBAGE CART 
On the cart is a boombox. It is playing "I Left My Wallet in El Segundo." 
It is being pushed through a casino empty of customers. 
As the cart stops and a wastebasket is emptied into it: 
VOICE (V.O.) You gotta peel this shit out sticks to the bottom. 
WIDER 
shows two youngish black men in the khaki uniforms of custodians. Emptying the wastebasket is WEEMACK-MACKATEE FUNTHES. He is instructing GAWAIN MACSAM. 
WEEMACK ...You wouldn't believe this shit, sometimes even out here on the casino floor you gonna find sanitary napkin shit stuck there, Tucks, I don't know what the fuck people do while they're gambling here man. 
GAWAIN I ain't peelin' funky shit with my human hands, man. That's a prescription for disease and viruses and shit, attackin' y'insides. 
As they roll on we see more of the gambling floor, which is on something less than the scale of a Las Vegas casino. The floor is not yet open and dealers stack and count chips at the tables, pit bosses with clipboards looking over their shoulders. Other dealers strap on visors and sleeve garters, preparing to work. 
WEEMACK You gotta do it. Mr. Gudge checks everything. Man is a motherfuck. Shit -- looka this. 
After a furtive look around he plucks a chip from the next wastebasket and slips it in his pocket. 
WEEMACK ...You keep an eye out, man. I found a hundred-dollar chip once. 
GAWAIN Fuck that, man. I ain't pawin' through used Tucks for a fi' dollar chip. 
WEEMACK I said it was a hundred. 
GAWAIN Man, your guts gonna turn to soup'n leak outcha fuckin' asshole. 
SERVICE HALL 
The cart jitters loudly on the dimpled plastic floor. 
WEEMACK This tunnel leads back onto land. To the office for all the people work for Mannex. Mannex Corporation. Owns the Lady Luck 'n three other boats... 
INT. CASINO - SERVICE HALL - DAY 
The two men are entering a windowless fluorescent-lit office area. A row of wooden office doors and one heavy steel door. 
WEEMACK ...This is where they think on their corporate shit, Gudge and them. 
He stops to empty a wastebasket. 
WEEMACK ...The lights is ugly but it ain't as many Tucks. 
He bangs on the steel door: 
WEEMACK ...YO, motherfuck! Lemme in! 
DIRECTOR What the hell is this? 
Pancake's manner is professorial: 
PANCAKE World War I vintage gas mask. It's authentic. Strapped on, of course, so it can't fall off. The animal is free to be as active as he wants, doesn't inhibit his movement, and I think it really sells the whole doughboy thing-- 
DIRECTOR It looks like a fucking joke. 
Pancake stares at the director for a moment and, though not doing anything, makes a sound of concentrated effort: 
PANCAKE ...Nnnnrnff! 
The director squints at him: 
DIRECTOR What? 
Pancake comes out of his trance, or whatever it was: 
PANCAKE No, nothing, uh... you're absolutely right, the gas mask is a whimsical concept-- 
DIRECTOR How the hell does it eat when it gets to the Kennel Rations? 
The dog looks up from person to person as each speaks, twisting its neck to peer through the eyeholes. Its breathing is growing louder. 
PANCAKE Well, you're absolutely right–- 
DIRECTOR Don't let the client see this. 
PANCAKE Of course not, that would be inappropriate-- 
DIRECTOR Or the Humane fucker. 
PANCAKE No no-- 
The dog gets down on its knees, slowly, like a camel, breathing ever more loudly. 
DIRECTOR They'll shut the fucking spot down, Pancake. Put the goddamn canteen back on. That says he's a soldier. Dented tin canteen. Just tie the damn thing to his collar. 
The dog flops over into the mud. 
PANCAKE Easiest thing in the world. I just thought -- but the canteen is much better. Good concept. Let's go with that-- 
DIRECTOR What's he doing? 
The dog has started to convulse. 
PANCAKE Well, he's uh... Just breathe normally, Otto. 
DIRECTOR The fucking dog can't breathe. 
PANCAKE Oh, he can breathe, that thing is -- just breathe normally, Otto. 
The dog's breath is rasping and horrible. 
DIRECTOR The fucking dog cannot breathe! Get that fucking thing off him! 
PANCAKE Of course. Easiest thing in the world. 
He stoops and fiddles at the straps. 
PANCAKE ...It's on good and tight, I, uh... Just breathe normally, Otto. 
He starts thumping at his pockets. 
DIRECTOR Get the fucking thing off him! 
PANCAKE Don't have my Leatherman. Mountain! Give me your Leatherman! Chop chop! 
DIRECTOR Get the fucking thing off him! Chitra, make sure the Humane fucker doesn't come over here! Bring him to craft services! 
As he makes to scoop up the dog: 
PANCAKE Good idea! Ice water, treats-– 
DIRECTOR Not the dog, you idiot! The Humane fucker! Distract him! 
PANCAKE Right! Of course! 
He goes back to work on the mask. 
DIRECTOR Oh my god, he's bleeding! 
PANCAKE No, that's me -- I -- the Leatherman... here we go. 
His hand gouting blood, he finally manages to get the gas mask off. 
A crowd is starting to gather and gape. The director barks at a grip: 
DIRECTOR Put up a couple solids here -- I don't want the client seeing this! 
Pancake thumps on the inert dog's chest. 
It bounces off our mouth guard and flies up. 
HUDSON (O.S.) ...shit... 
We are looking forward just as 
CRUNCH! 
We are hit by the defender. 
We once again land face-up. 
Very steeply FORESHORTENED, right over us, we see the defender juggling the live ball. 
With a moan, our own hand reaches weakly up towards the ball and the high, distant defender. 
He finally gathers in the ball and securely tucks it, and starts back upfield. 
We climb wearily to our feet. We look back upfield just in time to see the defender start an elaborate victory dance in the end zone. He pauses for a moment to point a gloved hand directly at us, then resumes his strut. 
Shouting from the sidelines brings our PANNING attention over. 
The coach, face twisted with fury, is shouting at us and using his clipboard to wave us off the field. 
We trot toward the sidelines. 
All of our teammates stare at us –- some in shock, some in anger, some in pity. 
At the sideline bench our POV swings round as we seat ourself. A hand reaches up to the mouth guard to pull off the helmet and we 
MATCH CUT TO: 
Our first OBJECTIVE SHOT as the player (HUDSON) finishes pulling off his helmet. He is a big blond boy. His entire body, including his face, is solidly built. 
An offscreen Voice: 
COACH (O.S.) Hudson! 
The boy, Hudson, turns to look, and we cut to one last 
POV 
The COACH is striding up, swinging his clipboard at the camera: with a loud CRUNCH! it brings on: 
BLACK 
EXT. MINI-MALL / HI-HO DONUT - DAY 
HIGH ANGLE 
It is a typical sunbaked concrete strip mall with a Seven- Eleven, a launderette, and a Hi-Ho Donut. The Hi-Ho Donut sign shows a pink donut with sprinkles and says in much smaller lettering: And Croissants. 
A beat-up Impala pulls into the lot, pulsing hip-hop music. After a long rumbling idle the ignition is killed. Both front doors open. Two BLACK KIDS get out and look around with a manner that is if anything too casual. 
INT. HI-HO DONUT - DAY 
There is faint muzak and loud air-conditioner hum. Glass cases display donuts identified as GLAZED, JELLY, and FANCIES. Fancies ooze yellow goo. The jelly on the jelly donuts is developing a crust of age. The glazed also look moth-eaten. 
One customer, a disheveled older man, sits at one of the little formica tables staring into a coffee cup. Next to the coffee is a brown paper bag from which a straw protrudes. 
Behind the counter is a middle-aged VIETNAMESE WOMAN in a neat white blouse. 
The two youths enter pulling out enormous handguns from underneath their windbreakers. 
YOUTH #1 All right Dragon Lady, give us all the fuckin' money! 
The woman stares blankly. 
YOUTH #1 We want that donut money! 
VIETNAMESE WOMAN Yao gin nyap! 
A man appears from the kitchen in back. He is a middle-aged Vietnamese gentleman in a crisply pressed khaki leisure suit. An ascot is knotted at his neck. He wears aviator eyeglasses. In his mouth smolders a half-burned-down filterless cigarette. This, we shall learn later, is THE GENERAL. 
YOUTH #2 Okay papa-san, we want that donut money. 
YOUTH #1 And we ain't fuckin' around, Mr. Hi- Ho. 
VIETNAMESE WOMAN Hi-Ho. 
The two youths look at her briefly. Nothing else is forthcoming. 
The drunk looks up from his paper bag. 
YOUTH #2 Look, this fuckin' thing, it ain't complicated. You give us all the fuckin money, you don't get shot in the head, you make more donuts, get more money. That's how it works, see? 
The General stares at him. As with his wife, none of it seems to register; unlike his wife, he seems unperturbed. 
YOUTH #1 Give us the money! 
He is pointing the gun directly at the General's head. 
"Yes it is!" 
PREACHER ...To smite is to reMIND! We got to STOP that decline! And scramble back UP to the face a the almighty Gyod! 
"Amen!" 
PREACHER ...'Stead a worshippin' that GOLDEN calf, that earthly TRASH on that GARBAGE island! That GARBAGE island in that shadowland WAY outside the Kingdom a God! 
"Way outside!" 
PREACHER ...That GARBAGE island where scavenger birds feast on the bones a the backslidin' damned! 
"Yes they do!" 
PREACHER ...And so, let us pray... 
EXT. CHURCH - DAY 
It is a white clapboard country church. The preacher stands at the door chatting with the congregants filing out. 
WOMAN #1 You preach a wonderful sermon, Brother Cleothus. 
PREACHER Why thank you, Sister Rose. 
MRS. MUNSON That man has a lot to say. 
WOMAN #1 Yes he does. 
MRS. MUNSON And every word of it the truth. 
WOMAN #2 Mm-mm. Jesus well pleased with him. 
WOMAN #3 Deed he is. 
PREACHER Oh now ladies... 
WOMAN #3 Pleased as he can be. 
WOMAN #1 Mm-mm. 
MRS. MUNSON Stout, too. 
WOMAN #1 Mm-mm. 
PREACHER Oh now you gracious ladies. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 
Mrs. Munson is at the kitchen table. She folds a five dollar bill into a sheet of paper, raising her voice as she does so: 
MRS. MUNSON It was a good sermon. That man has a lot to say. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 
We have CUT to the portrait of Othar over the mantel. He does not answer. 
From the kitchen: 
MRS. MUNSON'S VOICE (O.S.) ...Stout, too. It would've been a comfort to you... 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 
Mrs. Munson has stuffed the paper-enclosed bill into an envelope, which she is now laboriously addressing to Bob Jones University. 
MRS. MUNSON And the choir was all in good voice. Mm-mm- 
There is a knock at the door. 
MRS. MUNSON ...Who could that-- 
The cat yowls and hisses. 
I/E. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - DAY 
As Mrs. Munson swings open the door. 
G.H. Dorr stands on the stoop mournfully dry-washing his hands and obsequiously ducking his head. 
DORR My dear Mrs. Munson, I do so hope this is not an inopportune time for our first practice-- 
MRS. MUNSON Somebody die? 
DORR I beg your-- Oh! 
He looks back at the long black vintage Lincoln hearse parked at the curb behind him. 
DORR ...No no, no bereavement, though it is so kind of you to enquire. No, the hearse is simply a vehicle commodious enough to accommodate all of the members of our ensemble. And of course our instruments, contrived in an age ignorant of miniaturization... 
He turns and gestures at the vehicle. 
At his sign, Gawain, the custodian, emerges from the driver's side. 
DORR And what, to flog a horse that if not at this point dead is in mortal danger of expirin', does the dotted square represent? 
Gawain hesitates, the question's obviousness suggesting to him some trick. 
GAWAIN ...Offices. Underground. 
Dorr's eyes close. A smile of feline contentment curls his lips. He murmurs: 
DORR Underground... Mmm... During the casino's hours of operation the door to the counting room is fiercely guarded, and the door itself is of redoubtable Pittsburgh steel; when the casino is closed the entire underground complex is locked up and the armed guard retreats to the casino's main entrance. There, then, far from the guard, reposes the money, cosseted behind a five-inch-thick steel portal, yes, but the walls, gentlemen, the walls of that room, are but humble masonry, behind which is only the soft loamy soil deposited over the centuries by Ol' Man, the meanderin' Mississip', as it fanned its way back and forth across this great alluvial plain... 
He has pried a fistfull of dirt from the cellar wall. 
DORR ...This earth. 
He crumbles it, letting it sift to the floor, and then, pleased with himself, he smiles. 
DORR ...Any questions? 
Lump looks around, then hesitantly raises his hand. 
DORR ...Yes, Lump? 
LUMP What, uh... what does "cosseted" mean? 
Once again Dorr's smile fades. He does not dignify the question with answer. 
DORR The General here, whose curriculum vitae compahends massive tunneling experience thoo the soil of his native French-Indochina, will direct our little ol' tunnelin' operation. 
The General acknowledges with a curt nod. 
DORR ...Clark Pancake, while a master of none, is a jack of all those trades corollary to our aim. He will be doin' such fabricatin' and demolition work as our little caper shall require. 
Clark acknowledges verbally: 
PANCAKE Happy to be on board. 
DORR Gawain is the proverbial "inside man". He has managed to secure a berth on the custodial staff of the Lady Luck, thereby placin' himself in a position to perform certain chores whose precise nature needn't detain us here, but whose performance shall guide this expedition to its happy conclusion. 
GAWAIN Ya damn skippy. 
DORR And this brings us to Lump. To look at Lump you might wonder, what function could he possibly fill, what specialized expertise could he possibly offer, to our merry little ol' band a miscreants. Well gentlemen, in a project of such magnitude and such risks, it is traditional -- nay, it is imperative -- to enlist the services of a hooligan, a goon, an ape, a physical brute, who will be our security, our fist, our batterin' ram. Lump is our blunt instrument, and on all our behalfs I wish him a warm Mississippi welcome. 
LUMP Thanks, Professor. 
DORR Well gentlemen, here you are, men of different backgrounds and differing talents, men with, in fact only two things in common: one, you all saw fit to answer my little advertisement in the Memphis Scimitar, and, two, you are all going to be, in consequence, very very incredibly rich. Let us revel in our adventure, gentlemen. Let us make beautiful music together. And above all, gentlemen, let us keep it to ourselves. What we say in this root cellar, let it stay in this root cellar. 
LUMP There's no "I" in "team". 
All stare at him. 
DORR ...Lump has a very excellent point. 
The music swells, supported now by a male chorus that has the spirited manliness of the Red Army choir. We 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT 
The men at work, tunneling. 
The cat sits on the cellar floor, head cocked, gazing at the hole now opened in the wall. 
Lump, in a sleeveless undershirt, glistening with sweat, wields a pickaxe at the forward point. 
At the mouth of the hole Clark Pancake shovels dirt into a heavy plastic refuse bag held open by Gawain. 
G.H. Dorr sits on a camp chair, one hand idly waving time to the music, reading an old and yellowed tome with half-glasses perched midway down his nose. 
The General hops nimbly out of the tunnel and unzips and steps out of his all-in-one to reveal, underneath, his neatly pressed leisure suit and ascot. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Later, Dorr stands at the head of the cellar stairs, looking around the empty parlor. He gives a nod down the stairs and the men troop up past him, carrying sacks of earth. 
Over the mantelpiece, the eternal flame of the devotional candle almost animating his features, Othar seems to watch the men as they cross to the front door. 
EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT 
The men load the earth into the hearse. 
EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - NIGHT 
We are at the Mississippi bridge that we saw in the prologue to the movie, but now, in dead of night, deserted. 
The hearse is pulling up at the middle of the bridge and dimming its lights. The men emerge; when they open the back of the hearse to pull out the sacks, the cat bounds out to watch from a distance. 
We watch the men from HIGH, ANGLED DOWN along the masonry of a tower that stands in the middle of the suspension bridge. An ornamental gargoyle leers in the foreground. 
The garbage scow is approaching. We hear the low toot of its horn as it nears the bridge. 
Lump is poised with the first sack hugged to his chest, leaning over the railing. 
PANCAKE You son of a bitch punk! Shut your goddamn mouth! 
He shakes him vigorously and rears back to take a swing at him. 
Gawain draws a gun. 
GAWAIN Come and get me motherfuck! Come on, baby, let's get it on! 
Mountain starts screaming. 
People look, aghast. 
DORR Gentlemen, please! 
The other men pry Pancake and Gawain apart. 
DORR ...Gentlemen, this sort of behavior does you no credit in the eyes of your colleagues, or in those of the other patrons of this waffle house! 
Pancake grumbles as he composes himself and straighten his clothes. 
PANCAKE ...Nobody talks to Mountain Girl that way. She had an abusive family! 
GAWAIN Fuck you, man. 
PANCAKE Little punk. I got syrup on my safari jacket. 
He embraces Mountain, who continues to sob quietly. 
DORR Gentlemen, I propose that we consider the matter of this woman, Mountain Water, to be-- 
PANCAKE Mountain Girl. 
DORR I am so very sorry. I propose that we consider this matter to be closed, and we shall chose to trust her, since we now have no choice, and since she shall share only in Mr. Pancake's portion of the booty. 
Over the shoulder of the quietly weeping Mountain Girl: 
PANCAKE Of course. Wouldn't have it any other way. 
GAWAIN Damn right you won't. 
PANCAKE Up yours, punk. 
DORR Gentlemen! And the manner of disposing of our igneous impediment is also settled. That leaves only the question of Gawain retrieving his job. 
LUMP Couldn't you just bribe the guy? 
All turn to look at Lump. 
INT. MUNSON LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Othar looks serenely down from his spot over the mantelpiece. Marva Munson knits; G.H. Dorr sits nodding over an ancient volume of half-forgotten lore, reading glasses perched midway down his nose. Curtains waft lazily in the summer night breeze. 
MRS. MUNSON ...You just a readin' fool, ain't you Mr. Dorr. 
DORR Yes yes, I must confess, madam, that often I feel more at home in these ancient volumes than I do in the hustle-bustle of our modern world. To me, paradoxically, the literature of the so-called "dead tongues" has more currency than this mornin's newspaper. 
MRS. MUNSON Mm-mm. 
DORR In these books... 
He removes his glasses and lazily twirls them. 
DORR ...In these volumes, there is the accum'lated wisdom a mankind which succours me when the day is hard or the night lonely and long. 
MRS. MUNSON Wisdom of mankind, what about the wisdom of the Lord? 
DORR Oh yes, the Good Book, mm. I have found reward in its pages. But for me there are other good books as well; the heavy volumes of Antiquity, freighted with the insights of Man's glorious age. And then of course I love, love, love the works of Mr. Ed G'Allan Poe. 
MRS. MUNSON I know who he is. Kinda creepy. 
DORR Oh no, madam, noooo. Not of this world, true; he lived in a dream, an ancient dream... 
Dorr himself is lost in a dream: 
DORR "Helen, they beauty is to me Like those Nicean barks a yore That gently, o'er a perfumed sea, The weary, wayworn wanderer bore To his own native shore... " 
MRS. MUNSON Who was Helen? She wasn't a loose woman, was she? Some kinda whore a Babylon? 
Dorr is still lost: 
DORR One doesn't know who Helen was, though I picture her as bein' very, very extremely... pale. 
He comes to himself, focuses on Mrs. Munson. 
DORR ...Miz Munson, I was tryin' to think of some way of expressin' my gratitude to you for takin' in... 
He chuckles. 
DORR ...this weary, wayworn wanderer... 
The Professor takes a small ticket envelope from where it had served as bookmark, and hands it across. 
SHERIFF ...be gettin' back... 
BACK TO NORMAL PERSPECTIVE 
Mrs. Munson is about to go out the door but notices something: 
A corner of the Professor's cape, protruding from under the end of the bed. 
MRS. MUNSON What the... 
BACK TO DORR 
fearfully watching. 
HIS POV 
The heavy orthopedic shoes approach, and then, with loud Mr. Mogul sounds of effort, Mrs. Munson's hands and knees hit the floor. 
Her head drops in to view to peer in, her own cheek against the floorboards. 
MRS. MUNSON ...What the... Why, Professor! 
We see the Sheriff watching and his HIGH POV of Mrs. Munson's enormous ass. 
MRS. MUNSON ...What you doin' havin' tea down there?! 
Dorr makes silent hand waves to disavow his own presence. 
Mrs. Munson roars with laughter. 
With difficulty she pushes herself back upright, still laughing. 
MRS. MUNSON ...Land of Goshen! Get out from under there! 
SHERIFF Miz Munson, my pager just went off... 
MRS. MUNSON Why of all the... 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - STAIRCASE/FOYER - NIGHT 
The Sheriff is already backing down the stairs: 
SHERIFF 'Fraid I gotta respond... 
He opens the front door and calls up: 
SHERIFF ...I'll try to meet your friend some other time. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - DORR'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Dorr shimmies out from under the bed. 
DORR Well that was very... refreshing... As you know... 
He gets to his feet, slaps dust from the front of his pants. 
DORR ...we academics are inordinately fond of wedgin' ourselves into confined spaces. At Yale the students will see how many of their number they can enclose in a telephone booth; Harvard, a broom closet. 
MRS. MUNSON Why I never! 
DORR There was the goldfish-swallowin' craze, of course, a different but related phenomenon... Ahem... I hope I didn't spill any tea... 
INT. CASINO - GUDGE'S OFFICE - DAY 
CLOSE ON A BOX OF CHOCOLATES 
The box is being pulled open. 
GUDGE (O.S.) What the hell is this? 
WIDER 
shows Gawain in Mr. Gudge's office as Gudge, behind the desk, looks at the gift-wrapped box. 
GAWAIN It's just my way of sayin', well, goddamnit, I don't know what it's like walkin' in your shoes, bein' all tightass and all, and you don't know what it's like to walk in my shoes, but, well... 
Gudge is opening a card that was inside the box. Its floral front says in gold script, "I'm Sorry... If I hurt your feelings... " 
GAWAIN ...You know, there's the custodian, and then there's the man inside the custodian, y'understand what I'm sayin'... 
Gudge opens the card. Inside is a hundred-dollar bill. 
GAWAIN ...and that man has needs, dig, and I guess those needs, Mr. Gudge, which they usually involve women with big asses, well those motherfuckin' needs sometimes well up over the custodian like the motherfuckin' Johnstown Flood. But my point is it ain't gonna happen again. Not if it's humanly possible... 
Gudge reads the card, flips it over to look at its back. 
GUDGE Hmm... 
GAWAIN But Jesus, if you'd seen the ass on that girl, Mr. Gudge, you'd a wanted her sitting on your face too. 
GUDGE Well, we're all human. 
GAWAIN He's the motherfuckin' piece of igneous. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
The Professor emerges from the cellar. Mrs. Munson awaits with her friend who is likewise togged out in fancy Sunday dress and carrying a shiny black purse. 
MRS. MUNSON Professor, this is Rosalie Funthes, Rosalie, Professor G.H. Dorr, Ph.D. 
ROSALIE Oh my, that's an awful lot of letters. 
DORR Well of course in my youth I was simply known as Goldthwait... 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT 
Pancake is taking the boom box off the table to clear some space. 
PANCAKE All right, safety meeting, let's listen up. General, could you hand me the prima cord and the compound there. Before we set the charge we'll run through our procedure. 
Various paraphernalia are laid out on the table. 
The cat sits in a corner of the cellar, watching carefully and, it seems, listening attentively. 
PANCAKE ...I have earplugs for whoever wants them. Just wedge them in your ears. Now here we have -- not yet, Lump. 
Lump stops putting in his earplugs. 
PANCAKE ...Now. Prima cord. Gelatinite. C4. Time comes, we pack the hole in the rock with the C4 and insert two leads. A... 
He holds up one lead. 
PANCAKE ...and B. 
He holds up the other lead. 
PANCAKE ...Charge comes from a battery that is inside this plunger. Ordinary auto battery, you can pick it up at Sears, easiest thing in the world... 
EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT 
A black town car idles at the curb. Dorr is just escorting the two ladies out the front door and down the stoop. 
DORR I remember my father telling me -- and it is one of the few memories I retain of the man, from one of his visits home, and how I do cherish it -- he said, "Goldthwait, you are not formed as other little boys." 
ROSALIE Mm-mm. 
MRS. MUNSON He a man of learnin'? 
DORR G.H. number two was self-educated; he had no career, as such, though the state recognized the breadth of his readin' by making him librarian at the state nervous hospital in Meridian, where he was a distinguished inmate. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT 
Pancake sets down the two electrical leads and picks up a hammer. 
PANCAKE This is the same procedure we will be using when we collapse the tunnel after entering the casino vault and returning to the root cellar. 
He looks pointedly at Gawain. 
PANCAKE ...This is for your own protection, so pay close attention. Once these materials are combined only the professionals may handle them. That means me, or the General. Separately they are harmless-completely inert. Why, you could light this stuff on fire, hit it with a hammer-- 
He swings the hammer down onto the plastique-- 
EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT 
--and there is the dull thud of an explosion and the house's windows rattle in their frames. 
The Professor, at the open door of the car into which the two ladies have just sat, looks up at the house, as do the ladies. 
MRS. MUNSON ...What in the name of heaven was that? 
Dorr stares at the house, appalled. 
DORR I'm... quite sure... that there is... no cause for alarm... 
He struggles for self-possession. 
DORR ...Why, I'm not even absolutely certain that I heard anything at all. 
MRS. MUNSON Didn't hear anything?! 
DORR Well, something, perhaps, but... 
Marva Munson starts to get out of the car. 
DORR ...nothing that need discompose us, was the sense I was trying to convey... 
He urges her back into her seat. 
DORR ...Miz Munson, I will not have you missing your musical recital. Why, you go ahead now. Miz Funthes, you as well, I beg of you... 
He is backing up the walk. 
DORR ...I shall call the gas company, or the water company, or whatever subterranean utility is implicated in this little... occurrence... I shall see to the matter... as only a highly educated classicist could. 
Tree limbs shake with activity hidden by the leaves. We hear the hiss of the cat. 
The men are bundling Pancake into the hearse. Dorr calls to the women before climbing in: 
DORR The house is perfectly in order, but we need medical attention for Mr. Pancake who, during the disturbance, pinched his finger in a valve of the sackbutt. 
The cat leaps out of the tree and runs away down the road. 
MRS. MUNSON You let the cat out! 
The General leaps out of the tree to land catlike on the street, arms tensed, casts a look both ways, and then pursues the animal down the road. We hear the retreating padding footsteps of all six feet. 
DORR The General is even now exercising every effort to retrieve your mischievous little pet. Please go, go and enjoy your concert, and we shall see you later in the evening. Au revoir, mes dames! 
EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - NIGHT 
A new day. The garbage scow chugs down the mighty Mississippi. It toots its horn. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT 
CLOSE ON SCHEMATIC MAP 
It shows the underground complex and, stretching towards it in a line drawn with a blunt pencil, is the tunnel. It is now almost to the vault. 
A violin bow enters to tap at the line. 
DORR (O.S.) Despite our little setback we find ourselves on schedule to penetrate the vault... 
The bow taps at the vault outline. 
DORR ...here, this afternoon, having successfully blasted that little ol' rock to pieces during Miz Munson's choir practice. 
The violin bow withdraws. 
DORR ...Clark, perhaps you can run us through the game plan for what remains of our tunnelin'. 
A bandaged hand enters frame and a finger-stump points at the end of the penciled line. 
PANCAKE (O.S.) Of course. Why, it's child's play now, easiest thing in the world. Only a couple of feet separate us from the vault... 
WIDER 
The men are clustered around the map, spread out on the sackbutt case in the cellar. Clark continues: 
PANCAKE ...Just the usual spadework until we hit the masonry of the vault, and then we drill through. 
DORR And will you be able to wield the drill with your maimed extremity? 
PANCAKE Oh, I should think so, it's only one finger. Inhibits me in doing finer work, of course. I'll always have to live with that... Ahem. Maybe, and I'm just thinking out loud here, maybe since, as you say, it will present problems later... 
DORR Yes, Clark? 
PANCAKE Well, maybe -- and this is something I've talked over with Mountain Girl, and she agrees with me, so it's not just one person's opinion -- maybe I should get a little extra compensation for the accident. 
A long, stony silence. 
PANCAKE ...Somewhat larger share. Why, if this were any other line of work I'd be getting workmen's comp, wouldn't I? Might even have a pretty good lawsuit. 
GAWAIN You gonna sue yaself for blowin' off your finger? 
PANCAKE Well that is simply asinine-- 
DORR Yes but you see, Clark, this is not what you just called "some other line of work." 
PANCAKE But if it were-- 
DORR This is a criminal enterprise, not to put too fine a point on it, entailin' all manner a risks not involved in honest labor. Governmental regulations an' civic safeguards cannot be assumed to apply to antisocial pursuits. 
LUMP Yeah, but he lost his finger. 
GAWAIN We don't give a shit! Man can blow his own dick off, don't make no nevermind to us! We don't gotta pay the man for goin' around blowin' off body parts! Getcha head outcha ass, man! 
PANCAKE Look, you-- 
DORR I think that in this instance Gawain has a very excellent point. I-- 
GENERAL No extra share! 
All stop and stare at the General. 
Clark grumbles: 
PANCAKE Well, okay, majority rules, like I say, it was just a trial balloon. Hand's not so bad really, I even get some phantom feeling. 
GAWAIN You pull on your prick you get phantom feeling. Greedy motherfuck. 
DORR Now that that matter is settled, let us synchronize our watches before Gawain reports to work. In... twenty seconds... it will be twelve-sixteen exactly... fifteen... 
PANCAKE It will be twelve-fifteen? 
DORR No, in fifteen seconds -- now eleven seconds -- it will be twelve- sixteen... eight... 
PANCAKE Of course. I understand. 
DORR The conundrum of the undisturbed yet empty vault, the unsolvable riddle of the sealed yet violated sanctum, is of the utmost importance not only to make our caper innelectually satisfying. It is also exigent as a matter of practical fact: I remind you that if a tunnel is ever found leading to this house, this house's owner knows all of your names. 
PANCAKE She certainly does. 
DORR Therefore -- to draw the unavoidable conclusion -- someone shall have to reenter the tunnel to reset that charge. 
INT. TUNNEL - DAY 
Pancake, hunched over, scurries along the tunnel. He reaches the remnants of a large rock, where the tunnel grows smaller. 
He drops to crawl position and elbows his way forward, toolbelt clanking along. 
We are getting closer and closer to a muffled but thuddingly bassy "I Left My Wallet in El Segundo." 
INT. CASINO - VAULT - DAY 
The music loudly present at the cut. Gawain takes a handheld blowdryer out of his satchel and flips it on, directing it at the fresh paint on the wall whose repairs are now invisible. 
INT. TUNNEL - DAY 
Music once again muffled. Pancake has reached a little LED- displaying timer with leads trailing off of it. 
He grabs it, puts on his reading glasses, squints. 
The display shows: TIME REMAINING: 00:12. 
The colons in the display rhythmically blink, but the number does not advance. For some reason, stuck. 
PANCAKE Huh. 
He reaches to his tool belt, pulls out his Leatherman. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 
Mrs. Munson is setting places at a large table. There are about a dozen place settings. 
INT. TUNNEL - DAY 
Pancake now has a mini-mag light clenched between his teeth, aimed down at the timer. He opens the phillips head on his Leatherman but abruptly stops and stares off into space. 
PANCAKE Nnnnrungh... 
He is squinting with pain. 
The muffled hip-hop song is beginning to recede. 
INT. VAULT - DAY 
Gawain is wheeling his garbage cart out the door. The vault is completely empty but looks completely undisturbed. 
He closes the heavy vault door behind him, leaving quiet. 
INT. TUNNEL - DAY 
Quiet here as well, now. Pancake's moan trails off to nothing. He relaxes. The moment, whatever it was, has passed. 
He looks back down at the unit, flicks it with his finger, and it emits a soft beep. 
PANCAKE ...Huh? 
He squints at the back of the unit. 
As it beeps again, he turns the unit over to look at its face. 
The readout now says: 00:10. 
As he watches, peering down through the bottom of his glasses, it continues to advance with a beep as each second slips by: 
PANCAKE ...What the-- 
His eyes widen and he frantically shakes the unit. It continues beeping. He briefly and sloppily tries to fit the phillips head into one of the four screws on the back of the unit but immediately gives up and starts a panicked wriggle back up the tunnel, whimpering. 
INT. CASINO - DAY 
Gawain is wheeling his garbage cart past Elron. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 
Mrs. Munson is placing the last piece of silverware, just so. 
INT. TUNNEL - DAY 
Pancake is in full panicked awkward flight as-- 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY 
--BOOM! We CUT TO the cellar and Pancake is shot out the tunnel like a human cannonball, trailing a comet-tail of dirt, dust, and debris that wafts what were neatly stacked bills up into the air. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 
The cellar door creaks noisily -- one might almost say gothically -- ajar, and the Professor peers out with an ingratiating smile. 
DORR Hsst... Madam... 
The chattering abates and the ladies all look at him. His smile broadens into ghastliness and he crooks a finger toward Mrs. Munson. 
DORR ...Mrs. Munson, if I might have a word... 
MRS. MUNSON You get back down those stairs! 
DORR I assure you I shall be-- 
MRS. MUNSON Hush! Down those stairs! We havin' tea now! I be down shortly. 
He nods meekly and retreats, easing the door creakily shut. 
The ladies look inquisitively at Mrs. Munson as his footsteps are heard descending the stair. 
MRS. MUNSON ...He's the tenant. 
LADIES Mm-hm. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR DAY 
As the Professor rejoins the still staring and silent group. The money has been picked up and is once again in stacks upon the table. 
DORR She shall be down shortly... 
Explaining, he indicates upstairs with a jerk of the head: 
DORR ...Tea. Dainties. 
The men nod, murmuring. 
The cellar door squeaks open. There is the clomp of careful footsteps on the stair. 
Using only tongue and teeth, the General flips his smoking cigarette inwards into his mouth and gives Mrs. Munson his usual deadpan look. 
She halts halfway down the stairs, still wearing an apron and holding a spatula. 
MRS. MUNSON I don't know what you boys been up to but I wasn't born yesterday and I know mischief when I see it. Now I want an explanation, but first I want you boys to get your fannies up here with y'alls period instruments. I been tellin' the ladies about your music and they wanna hear you play. 
She turns to head back up the stairs but abruptly stops to turn and give the General a hard look which he innocently returns. 
MRS. MUNSON ...Hmph. 
She turns again and clomps back up the stairs. 
The General opens his mouth and, again without using his hands, restores his cigarette to its usual place on his lower lip. 
Lump is fretful: 
LUMP Professor? 
DORR Yes, Lump? 
LUMP I can't really play the buttsack. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 
The cellar door opens and the men troop out, G.H. Dorr leading and the other men following rather sheepishly behind. 
DORR Madame -- or rather, mesdames -- you will have to accept our apologies for failing to perform since, as you see, we are shorthanded. Gawain is still at work and we could no more play with one part tacit than a horse could canter shy one leg. 
LADIES Mm-hmm. 
MRS. MUNSON Hmph. 
DORR Perhaps I could offer as a poor but ready substitute a brief poetic recital. Though I don't pretend to great oratorical skills, I will happily present, with your ladies' permission, verse from the unquiet mind of Mr. Ed G'Allan Poe. 
Lump, Pancake, and the General sit and awkwardly accept dainty teacups. 
The Professor rises, spreads his hand, and pronounces: 
DORR ..."Ladies, thy beauty is to me Like those Nicean barks of yore..." 
CLOSE-UPS of the various ladies, some sipping tea or slowly munching biscuits, but all eyes glued to the declaiming man in the cape. 
DORR "That gently, o'er a perfumed sea The weary, wayworn wanderer bore To his own native shore... " 
Murmuring Voice: 
VOICE Amen. 
A slurp of tea from another quarter. 
Dorr bears on: 
DORR "On desperate seas long wont to roam, Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, Thy Naiad airs have brought me home To the glory that was Greece And the grandeur that was Rome... " 
A long silence. 
MRS. MUNSON Well that's prob'ly true... 
The Professor, warming, has resumed dry-washing his hands: 
DORR Yes madam, sadly, the criminal stain is upon my soul, but the benefit shall accrue to any number of worthy causes. As long, that is, as the secret stays with us. And I, surely, shall not be the one to divulge it. 
Mrs. Munson nods, musing. 
MRS. MUNSON Well... it's hard to see the harm in it... One penny... 
Her gaze drifts around the room, a smile beginning to warm her face. The smile freezes, though, as her look catches on something. 
Her POV: Othar, above the mantle, looks down with a disapproving scowl. 
MRS. MUNSON ...I'm sorry, Professor. 
Dorr is taken aback: 
DORR Excuse me, ma'am? 
MRS. MUNSON No. It's wrong. Don't you be leadin' me into temptation. 
DORR Madam, I must strenuously protest-- 
MRS. MUNSON No, it's just plain wrong. Stealin'. I know your intentions were good, and I won't call the police if you give the money back. But I gotta see that you do it. 
DORR Madam-- 
MRS. MUNSON And all a you gotta go to church with me next Sunday. 
The Professor is incredulous: 
DORR And... engage in divine worship? 
MRS. MUNSON I made up my mind. You can double- talk all you want, but its church or the county jail. 
DORR But-- 
She rises. 
MRS. MUNSON You think it over. I gotta feed the cat. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT 
The men all sit around the card table, lit from below by an oil lamp. The General is neatly packing the stacks of banknotes into the sackbutt case. 
GAWAIN Motherfuck! 
DORR Yes. Unfortunately, Mrs. Munson has rather complicated the situation-- 
GAWAIN I know how to discomplicate it! Put a cap in the old lady's head! Then everything simple again! 
The group lapses into silence, considering. Even Gawain needs a moment to digest the horror that he himself has proposed. 
The Professor is solemn: 
DORR ...Not easy to do. Many reasons. Practical ones: a quiet neighborhood, a sleepy town. Reasons of moral repugnance: a harmless woman, a deed conceived and executed in cold blood. No, Gawain; would that it were simple! 
GAWAIN Well -- fuck, man! What we gonna do, give the money back and go to church?! 
DORR I shudder. I quake. 
He turns to the General. 
DORR ...You sir, are a Buddhist. Is there not a middle way? 
The General grunts as he closes the clasps on the sackbutt case full of money: 
GENERAL Must float like a leaf on the river of life. And kill old lady. 
The men murmur. 
DORR Well... I suppose you are right. It is the active nature of the crime, though, that so horrifies -- the squeezing of the trigger, the plunging of the knife. But, think a moment -- look at the other tools we have at hand. 
He looks around. 
DORR ...We have the cellar. We have masonry and trowel. Perhaps we could simply... immure her. 
PANCAKE Sure, easiest thing in the world. I could whip up a little mortar in one of those snow saucers, lay the bricks, anchor in some chains, Mountain has a source for the manacles... 
DORR Ahh but gentlemen, we delude ourselves. Think of the woman's piteous moans as we lay tier upon tier of brick. Think of her lamentations as we fit the last brick into place, appealing to our better selves, the higher angels of our nature, our recollections of our own sainted mothers... No, I fear that we lack the sand to commit such an act. No... no... shortest and most painless is best. Let us confront reality. Gawain's gun... the retort muffled by a pillow... into the brain... the affair of an instant. The only question is... who wields the weapon. 
He looks around the table. Silence. No volunteers. 
DORR ...I believe it is traditional, in such circumstances, to draw straws. 
PANCAKE Well, sure, fair enough. 
He takes a broom leaning against the wall, bends back and snaps a handful of its bristles. 
PANCAKE ...I'm thinking, though, that since I lost my finger -- I mean, literally lost it because of that goddamn cat -- maybe I should be excused from this thing. Hard for me to squeeze a trigger anyway-- 
MAMA Daddy gonna kick your ass! 
WHAP! 
MAMA ...Bringin' in a filthy dirty dog! 
WHAP! Gawain's little brothers and sisters, drawn by the commotion, have gathered excitedly to watch. 
SISTER Mama's whuppin' Gawain's ass! 
BROTHER (eagerly) Ain't you gonna use the strap, Mama? 
WHAP! WHAP! Gawain is sobbing: 
CHILD GAWAIN Please don't hurt me, Mama! 
Now it is the adult Gawain blubbering. 
The clack of knitting needles stops and Mrs. Munson turns to look. 
MRS. MUNSON What you doin'? What you doin' with my pillow there? 
He surreptitiously slides the gun into his pocket, sniveling: 
GAWAIN I'm sorry, ma'am, I-- 
WHAP! She cuffs him on the side of the head. 
MRS. MUNSON I'm displeased with you! Colored boy like you, falling in with that trash downstairs! 
WHAP! 
MRS. MUNSON ...Ashamed a yourself! Didn't your mama raise you right! 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT 
Gawain is tramping down the stairs. 
GAWAIN I can't do it! 
The men are stunned. 
DORR Why... this is most... irregular. 
GAWAIN She reminds me of my mama. I can't shoot my mama! You motherfuckers just draw straws again. 
PANCAKE Wait a minute. You've got to accept your responsibilities, young man. 
GAWAIN Fuck you. And your irritated bowel. I can't shoot that old lady. 
GENERAL Must shoot! 
PANCAKE Now look here, it's the easiest thing in the world. Pretend her head is a casaba melon, and the gun is a melon- baller, and-- 
GAWAIN What the fuck you talkin' about, man? You think this a melon-baller, you do it, man! 
DORR My my, this is most irregular. 
PANCAKE Look, with equal rights come equal responsibilities-- 
DORR I'm afraid that Mr. Pancake is right, my dear fellow. We cannot draw straws again; the exercise loses all credibility if you show that the loser can simply beg off doing the job. 
GENERAL Must shoot! 
Gawain shoves the gun toward Pancake. 
GAWAIN She just an old colored lady to you -- you do it, man! 
PANCAKE Why you sniveling little coward! 
GAWAIN What you say, you whiney motherfucker? I come up your irritated ass with this -- motherfuckin' gun-- 
He is waving the gun. 
PANCAKE You think you scare me, you mewling punk! You don't scare me! Bull Connor and all his dogs didn't scare me! 
He shoves Gawain. 
PANCAKE ...Be a man! 
GAWAIN You fuck! 
He shoves him back. 
Pancake shoves: 
PANCAKE Be a man! 
GAWAIN You ain't no fuckin' man, fuckin' a sixty-year-old lady in pigtails! 
PANCAKE WHY YOU BASTARD PUNK! MOUNTAIN GIRL IS FIFTY-THREE! 
Dorr looks back to Mrs. Munson. 
DORR ...and congratulations on having recalled to the fold five poor, confused sheep who had momentarily strayed. 
EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - BRIDGE - NIGHT 
We are at the middle of the bridge, the tower gargoyle looking blankly down at the doings below. 
In the misty night Lump and the General are braced over the railing, looking down, each holding one of the feet that protrude from the Hefty bag cinched around Gawain's ankles. A cigarette burns on the General's lower lip. Behind the two men we can see the idling hearse. 
There is the toot of the garbage scow. Lump and the General release Gawain's feet. 
Their POV shows the sack receding and flumping into the garbage piled onto the scow that slips by below. 
A flock of scavenger birds, disturbed by the impact, lifts off the scow with angry caws. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Dorr skulks at a corner of the living room's picture window, peering out at the street. 
EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT 
DOOR'S POV 
The Volkswagon microbus again cruises slowly down the street in the same direction as previously; apparently it has been circling. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
The Professor scowls. 
EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT 
DORR'S POV 
The hearse pulls up to the curb. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT 
The Professor clomps down the cellar stairs. Pancake is loading their digging implements into a satchel. 
PANCAKE They back yet? 
Dorr is absent: 
DORR Yes... yes, they just arrived. 
Pancake straightens from the satchel. 
PANCAKE Good. I'll go dump these in the hearse. 
He mounts the stairs with a satchel in either hand. We can hear the front door opening as the other men enter. 
Dorr, bemused, but apparently moved by a hunch, advances slowly to the sackbutt case. 
He slides the catch that lets its spring clasp pop up. 
He lifts the lid. 
Mother Jones magazine. Piles of Mother Jones magazines. 
DORR What in heaven's name... 
He riffles a pile, confirming that it is in fact all magazine, no money. 
Lump and the General are clomping down the stairs. 
DORR ...General! 
EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT 
We are PULLING Clark down the street, a satchel in either hand. 
HIS POV 
The microbus, parked halfway down the block, ominously idling. 
THE BUS 
We are CLOSE on its side-view mirror. Someone leans from the driver's seat for a view into the mirror, and in the mirror we see her, pigtails swinging: Mountain Girl. 
HER POV 
Clark Pancake, still rather small, approaching up the empty street. 
PANCAKE 
PULLING him again. A smile is beginning to play at the corners of his mouth. 
PANCAKE No extra share, huh... 
The smile abruptly fades. 
we look down on the Professor, the black bird rising to perch on the gargoyle on the suspension tower in the foreground. 
The bird settles on a loose, teetering piece of masonry. 
BACK TO THE PROFESSOR 
looking at the receding red light on the bridge of the receding scow: 
DORR "...The agate lamp within thy hand... 
BACK HIGH 
The teetering chunk of masonry tips away and the perchless bird flaps off. 
BACK TO THE PROFESSOR 
very dreamy: he sees something in the distance, beyond time and space: 
DORR ...Ah, Psyche! from the regions which Are Holy land!" 
This is punctuated by the crunching impact of masonry scoring a direct hit on his head. He falls over the rail. 
His cape snags on the railing and he hangs limp and lifeless. Directly below his dangling body the stern of Lump's barge is slipping away to leave black waters and the clanking of chains. 
The fabric of the Professor's cape begins to tear. His body drops in fits and starts as the fabric gives way. 
Finally the body rips free. It falls away from us. As it does so the clanking chains are pulling into view the second- banger -- a garbage barge being chain-towed by the receding scow. 
Dorr's body lands neatly on the barge. 
A gust of wind. 
The cape flaps free of the railing and is wind-tossed away amidst the cawing birds. 
The cat, watching, blinks. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - MRS. MUNSON'S BEDROOM - DAY 
DRINKING GLASS 
It is resting on the very edge of the night table -- protruding, in fact, past the table's edge. 
It is morning. We hear rustling from the bed. 
Hands reach INTO FRAME and hesitate, finding the glass empty of water and precariously perched. 
MRS. MUNSON (O.S.) Hmm. 
The hands tip the glass and take the teeth. We hear complicated oral noises. 
EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - DAY 
The door opens away to reveal the morning paper lying on the stoop. Mrs. Munson leans INTO FRAME to pick it up and we ADJUST as she straightens to have a look: 
The headline says: $2.6 MILLION DISAPPEARS FROM LADY LUCK CASINO. The subhead: POLICE BAFFLED. 
MRS. MUNSON Mm-hm. 
INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY 
Mrs. Munson is walking down the stairs. 
MRS. MUNSON Professor! 
She stops midway down and looks: 
The empty cellar. 
Money stacked neatly on the card table. 
Mrs. Munson sadly shakes her head. 
MRS. MUNSON ...Hmm. Couldn't face the music. 
EXT. SAUCIER MUNICIPAL BUILDING - DAY 
Mrs. Munson is climbing the porch in her Sunday best. She feints at the dog who lies curled in the sun: 
MRS. MUNSON Scoot now! Outa the way! 
INT. SAUCIER MUNICIPAL BUILDING - DAY 
The sheriff is busy on the phone; there is a DEPUTY today also on the phone. The sheriff, seeing Mrs. Munson enter, covers the phone with one hand. 
SHERIFF WYNER Miz Munson. 
MRS. MUNSON Sheriff, I gotta make a statement. 
SHERIFF WYNER Could it possibly wait, ma'am? We're a little busy today. 
MRS. MUNSON I guess it can wait, but it's about that casino money. 
