THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS 
Written by 
Michael Mann & Christopher Crowe 
FADE IN 
The screen is a microcosm of leaf, crystal drops of precipitation, a stone, emerald green moss. It's a landscape in miniature. We HEAR the forest. Some distant birds. Their sound seems to reverberate as if in a cavern. A piece of sunlight refracts within the drops of water, paints a patch of moss yellow. The whisper of wind is joined by another sound that mixes with it. A distant rustling. It gets closer and louder. It's shallow breathing. It gets ominous. We're interlopers on the floor of the forest and something is coming. 
SUDDENLY: A MOCCASINED FOOT rockets through the frame scaring us and ... 
EXTREMELY CLOSE: PART OF AN INDIAN FACE running hard. His head shaved bald except for a scalp-lock. Tattoos. He's twenty-five. He seems tall and muscled. Heavy, even breathing. We'll learn later this man is UNCAS, the last of the Mohicans. 
PROFILE: UNCAS' ARMS 
flash as he runs. One carries a flintlock musket. Sweat on the man's skin. A calico shirt is gathered at the waist with a wampum belt of small white beads over a breechcloth. He wears leggings to protect his legs. A long-handled tomahawk is stuffed in his belt. 
CUT TO ... 
ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST - MASSIVE WAR CLUB - DAY 
in the hand of another running man. He's heavier, older ... CHEST 
A green bear claw is tattooed there. Silver armband. A snake is tattooed over his left eyebrow. Silver rings in his ear. He's forty to forty-five. His head is shaved into a scalp-lock. It says: "Come and lift this from me. Take it, if you can ..." That prospect strikes us as extremely unlikely. This man is 
CHINGACHGOOK. 
The French call him "Le Gros Serpent," the Great Snake, because "he knows the winding ways of men's nature and he can strike a sudden, deathly blow." 
WIDE ANGLE: CHINGACHGOOK 
runs, disturbing no leaves, no branches; making no sound. He's running parallel to Uncas through the cathedral of mature forest. It's heavily canopied. There's very little brush. The girth of the trees is huge. Shafts of light illuminate motes of dust and turn leaves emerald where the sun breaks through. Sometimes there's ferns; rhododendron, sometimes pale grass and outcroppings of rock. These men run the forest streams, over boulders, fallen trees and down into ravines as if they own them. They do. 
CUT TO ... 
ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST - LONG BLACK HAIR - DAY 
rocketing through trees. His torn buckskin shirt is tied at the waist with a wampum belt holding a tomahawk and a large knife. A long rifle in which is carved the name "Killdeer" is in his right fist. Indian tattooing on his chest. His name is NATHANIEL POE. He's a few years older than Uncas. The French and 	the French-speaking tribes know him as La Longue Carabine (Long Rifle). Other frontiersmen in New York colony and the Iroquois and Delaware-speaking tribes know him as Hawkeye. Sweat stains his shirt. He flashes through the tree branches disturbing nothing. Making no sound. 
HAWKEYE'S POV: A PIECE OF TAN 
two hundred and fifty yards away, a few square inches buried in the foliage ... 
SUDDENLY HE STOPS 
Killdeer's at his shoulder ... 
HAWKEYE'S THUMB 
cocks the lock holding the piece of flint: click. 
UNCAS 
stops dead, holding out his hand ... no sound. 
CHINGACHGOOK 
slips through young trees and stops, shouldering his smoothbore musket. Is this an ambush? 
HAWKEYE'S POV: RACK FOCUS THROUGH THE GUN SIGHT 
Five feet and fourteen pounds of rifle is elevated a half inch and shifted left, off target. It's a precise, smooth movement. No human quiver. 
KILLDEER'S TRIGGER 
tighter ... 
THE COCK 
holding the flint hits the iron file of the frizzen, shooting sparks into the pan of priming powder which flashes and ... 
TAN is a huge elk that leaps at the sound. 
KILLDEER'S MUZZLE 
CRACKS like lightning. 
AN ELK 
leaps where the .59 caliber round was programmed to intercept him. On the moment of impact ... 
WIDE 
three men approach the fallen elk and each other. We realize they're hunting together. Hawkeye steps aside for Chingachgook. His massive war club is flat and angles to one side with a stabbing blade. Hawkeye is stepson and stepbrother. The two younger men treat Chingachgook with an easy deference and affection. Hawkeye's a dialectic of two cultures. In his coloration and worldliness he's more the Anglo-Saxon frontiersman. In his independent views and candid manner and in his combat skills and woodsmanship, he's more native American (Mohican). As Chingachgook takes out his long knife and they approach the fallen elk ...] CHINGACHGOOK (low Mohican; sub-titled) We're sorry to kill you, Brother. Forgive us. I do honor to your courage and speed, your strength ... 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR - INTERIOR CAMERON CABIN - JOHN CAMERON - NIGHT 
roasts potatoes on a stick in the stone fireplace next to CAPTAIN JACK WINTHROP, an American in very worn quasi-military gear. On a rough table in the tiny cabin ALEXANDRIA, his wife, is kneading bread. Three children climb on their father. He grabs their wild seven year old son, JAMES, who shrieks laughter and dodges away. The cabin has two primitive rooms, waxed paper windows, log walls. O.S. a dog barks. Others pick it up. Cameron & Jack are suddenly alert, reaching for weapons ... 
CUT TO ... 
HEYWARD (to Magua) Dawn. At the encampment. Six a.m. sharp. See to it you're there. 
Beneath Magua's barely deferential manner we sense intelligence & menace. None of 	these Brits see it. We do. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR POLTROON'S HOUSE - DUNCAN HEYWARD - DAY 
brushed clean, his wig freshly powdered, his tricorn in his hand with a crimson sash and sword and his cavalry boots, walks through the gate after knocking. He enters a small courtyard. Suddenly he hears ... 
CORA (O.S.) Heyward! Duncan Heyward. 
Heyward looks to the side. An inner light turns on. In this mode, this is a man we could like. 
REVERSE: CORA MUNRO 
enters from the garden. She's vivacious, dark-haired, unconventional in that she's educated, but with conventional values and attitudes. She hugs Duncan to her and then pushes him away to look at him. 
HEYWARD My God it's good to see you. 
He takes her hand in both of his and kisses it. He is open and lit up. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR POLTROON'S HOUSE, BACK YARD - CORA & HEYWARD - DAY 
A vegetable plot behind the Poltroon's house is a provincial substitute for a formal garden setting. Heyward and Cora sit on rough wooden chairs. Wind blows. In the background a servant hangs laundry. The white sheets billow. A table holds a tea setting. They're sitting close to each other, talking seriously and quietly. Duncan's jacket is removed. Time's passed. Long pause. Then: 
CORA I'm embarrassed to be so indecisive ... after so long apart and after you've traveled so far ... 
HEYWARD And by sea! 
CORA You still have an aversion to the water? 
HEYWARD Aversion? No. ... "Hatred" ... "Loathing" ... 
Cora laughs. 
HEYWARD But it was worth it all to end in a garden by your side. 
She looks askance at him. Then the banter drops. 
CORA (difficult) Dear Duncan, my affection is as towards a closest friend. Alice and I depend on you and respect you immensely ... I wish they did, but my feelings don't go beyond that. Do you see? 
HEYWARD Isn't respect and friendship, a reasonable basis for a man and woman to be joined? And all else may grow in time ...? 
CORA Some say that's the way of it. 
HEYWARD "Some"? 
CORA Cousin Eugenie, my father, but ... 
HEYWARD (interrupts) Cora, in my heart, I know once we're joined, we'll be the happiest couple in England. Let those whom you trust, your father, help settle what's best for you. In view of your indecision, why not rely on their advice and judgment as well as mine? 
Cora stares directly at Heyward. Then she looks away. She has no answer. Something subterranean disturbs her about delegating judgment over the fate of her life. 
HEYWARD Will you consider that? 
CORA (pause; smiles) Yes. Yes, I will. 
She's still unsettled. 
ALICE (O.S.) Duncan! 
REVERSE: ALICE MUNRO 
eighteen years old, white-blonde hair, wide blue eyes. She's effervescent and runs to hug him. Heyward is taken aback by her enthusiasm and laughs. 
HEYWARD My God, you've grown up. 
ALICE We leave in the morning?! 
HEYWARD (rises) Yes, miss. 
ALICE I won't sleep tonight. What an adventure! I absolutely cannot wait to return to Portman Square, having laid eyes upon the full-blooded, red men in the wild! 
CORA My God, Alice. 
HEYWARD (smiles) It can be dangerous ... 
ALICE Nonsense. Papa wouldn't have sent for us if it were dangerous. 
Alice takes Hewyward's hand. Cora pours Heyward more tea. The white sheets billow. 
AMBROSE (O.S. - barks) Atten-shun! 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR BRITISH ARMY HQ - TWENTY BRITISH REGULARS - DAY 
jolt upright as if electrified. 
AMBROSE (entering) Shoulder arms! 
has headed off further down the stream and discovers nothing. Rapidly he rejoins Uncas and Hawkeye who've become extremely alert. They move up the bank into the forest ninety degrees from their previous path. 
TRACKING: HAWKEYE, UNCAS & CHINGACHGOOK 
moving. Fast. Nearly soundless. They hardly disturb a blade of grass. The impression: expertise, deadliness and an impression something's wrong. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR FOREST, TRAIL - MAGUA - DAY 
on point. The trail cuts the side of a hill. The ground on one side rises into a forest acclivity and on the other falls off into a forested ravine. Magua walking towards camera. 
CLOSER - MAGUA'S 
slid his tomahawk out from the front of his belt that girdles his waist. He lets the shaft drop into his hand. He shrugs off his blanket. There is a solidity to his dark, tall figure we didn't see before. Magua turns about face and advances on the column. TRACK WITH Magua. Heyward and the Munro girls pass the camera as does Sgt. Major Ambrose, marching in advance of the men. Magua is approaching the soldier on the left in the first row. We see Magua has caught the Redcoat's eye. 
REDCOAT 
is curious, starts to smile. What does the Huron want to say to him? When Magua is two steps away he caves in the side of the infantryman's head at the temple with the spike end of his tomahawk and, backhanded, hacks the blade through the side of the neck of the center man in the first row. 
SIMULTANEOUSLY 
thirteen muskets EXPLODE from the wooded rise. 
FIVE REDCOATS 
are blown off the path, two others are wounded ... 
AMBROSE 
AMBROSE Form company! Left face! March! 
ALICE 
shrieks. Cora grabs Alice's reins and her own. 
HEYWARD 
pulling his fusil (short musket), seeing, firing, reaching for the women ... 
CORA'S HORSE 
bucking. 
ALICE'S HORSE 
bolting, dodging sideways, spilling Alice to the earth. 
AMBROSE 
AMBROSE Company make ready! 
The regulars slam into a firing line, stepping over the bodies of their comrades. All thirteen face the incline. 
FORESTED RISE - HURONS 
flash downhill through the trees. Partnered in two-man teams, one loads and prepares and fires while the other advances to the next cover. He, then, prepares and fires covering his partner's advance. Leaping fallen trees and boulders, they're athletic, fast and rapidly closing. Even though the disciplined English regulars are a killing machine, we now see their tactics in the dense forest are grossly inferior to the Hurons' ... 
AMBROSE Present!! 
CORA 
covers Alice with her body, holding the reins of their bolting horses. 
HEYWARD 
from horseback aims his horse pistol, FIRES ... 
AN ATTACKING HURON 
leaping at him past Alice & Cora drops. 
MULE 
with baggage crashes off, down the ravine. Another two Redcoats drop. Nine left. Then eight. 
AMBROSE 
AMBROSE Fire!! 
A musket volley as eight muskets go off as one shot, sending a lead scythe through leaves. But ... 
REVERSE: 
Hurons were behind cover. Only one was exposed and hit. 
AMBROSE (continuing) Load! Prime! 
The English rush to complete the reload. Will they do it in time? 
AMBROSE (continuing) Present! Present! 
Suddenly, Hurons - en masse - CRASH down onto the Redcoats line with tomahawks, war clubs and point-blank musket fire. 
HEYWARD'S MUSKET 
is jerked from his hands. 
HAWKEYE ... case your aim is any better'n your judgment. 
He's drawn his sword, reflexively. Hawkeye flips the musket around one-handed. It's pointed at Heyward's chest. And Hawkeye FIRES, killing an attacking Huron behind Heyward. As Heyward spins ... 
CHINGACHGOOK'S WAR CLUB 
flashes up the hill. It cleaves the second man's back and bowls him over. Chingachgook retrieves his club as his scalping knife slashes down ... 
UNCAS 
scalps the man he killed. Chingachgook dispatches the Huron he hamstrung. 
WIDE 
Sudden silence. Heyward's motionless. The women are frozen, as terrified of the savages and apparent half-breed rescuers as they were of those who attacked them. 
ALICE 
Cora, holding her, is stunned but functioning. Moments ago both women were clean and demure. Now their riding dresses are torn, mud-stained, blood-spattered and their baggage is gone. 
HEYWARD'S 
crossed to his slaughtered soldiers. Moments ago they were a testament to British military power. Now they're dead meat. Ambrose's body is against a tree. In the B.G. 	two of the wounded start to rise ... 
ALICE (O.S.) Stop it! 
Heyward spins. 
UNCAS 
just cut the throat of the second Narraganset. It drops into the brush. Alice attacks him. 
ALICE We need them to get out of here! 
Uncas gently restrains her. Cora reaches Alice and grabs her away from the "savage". Heyward runs in to protect the women ... 
HEYWARD (to Nathaniel) ... why the bloody hell he do that to the horses?! 
Uncas, all business, is now reloading, lifting powder horns, scanning the trees. 
UNCAS (matter of fact) ... too easy to track ... they can be heard for miles ... find yourself a musket ... 
Cora's surprised by Uncas' easy English. Hawkeye's scanning the forest. 
HAWKEYE (to Heyward) Your wounded should try walkin' back to Albany. They'll never make a passage north. 
HEYWARD (breathless) We were headed ... 
HAWKEYE (appropriating a knife) ... Fort William Henry. 
CHINGACHGOOK 
to Hawkeye: let's go ... Then a fast exchange of Delaware. Cora's surprised to see it's Chingachgook's decision. Chingachgook looks at the survivors, gives his assent, starts off. 
HAWKEYE ... take you as far as the fort. 
Hawkeye throws Heyward a musket. Cora & Alice look towards Heyward. He looks at them: the women are totally terrified and do not move. 
HAWKEYE If we are goin' to take you, we need to move. Fast ... And the fort is well off our course. So if you all rather wait for the next Huron war party to come by, we'll be on our way. 
Heyward quickly decides to go. The women follow. Hawkeye starts off after Uncas and Chingachgook. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR FOREST - HAWKEYE - DAY 
moves through the trackless forest. Uncas is far out on the left flank. Cora, Alice & Duncan Heyward follow in Hawkeye's and Chingachgook's steps ... 
HAWKEYE'S FEET 
walking through a creek, stepping in the stream bed instead of on stones. The others follow. Hawkeye looks at Heyward. 
HEYWARD 
conforms. He's ill at ease not being in command, following the lead of some half-Indian frontiersman through a foreign wilderness.] 
HEYWARD How far is it, scout? 
HAWKEYE Day and a half (pause) Where did you get ... the guide? 
HEYWARD Colonel Munro sent him. He was one of our Mohawk allies. 
HAWKEYE He is Huron and nothing else. (checking the Munro girls are not too close) Why would he want to murder the girl? 
HEYWARD What?! 
HAWKEYE Dark haired ... 
HEYWARD Miss Cora Munro. He never set eyes on her before today. 
CHINGACHGOOK Leave them. 
Heyward stops. Hawkeye and Uncas follow Chingachgook, leaving the cabin. 
CORA (hasn't moved) Though they are strangers, they are at least entitled to a Christian burial! 
HAWKEYE (shaking his head) Let us go, miss. 
CORA I will not. I have seen the face of war before, Mr. Poe, but never war made on women and children. And almost as cruel is your indifference. 
Hawkeye turns back and rapidly approaches her. She takes a step back, fearful. 
HAWKEYE (contained) Miss Munro. (pause) They are not strangers .... And they stay as they lay ...! 
CORA 
realizes Hawkeye knew these people and is deeply affected. She also realizes for the first time this is a whole new world with dynamics and complexities, behavior and rhythms she doesn't understand. He turns away from her and walks on. She hesitates a moment. 
WIDE ON THE SMALL CLEARING IN FRONT OF THE FARMHOUSE 
as Chingachgook and Hawkeye, extremely alert and cradling their cocked flintlocks, walk to camera, eyes sweeping the forest perimeter; they're followed by Cora, Heyward helping Alice and Uncas as rearguard. 
The ruined cabin and the dead dream of a family smolders behind them. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR GLADE - PROFILE: HAWKEYE - NIGHT 
moves through to where the trees seem sparse and are unnaturally white birch and some thin grass grows. The land rises into a mound. Chingachgook and the others avoid stepping on the grass and cross to the other side of it. 
CHINGACHGOOK 
mutters something to Uncas. He nods and disappears amongst the white birch, soundlessly. 
HAWKEYE 
throws Heyward a blanket. Heyward spreads the blanket below the top of the mound and - maintaining silence - he gestures for Cora & Alice to rest there. 
ALICE'S HEAD 
hits the blanket. She curls into a fetal position and she's out. Heyward is nearby on watch. Hawkeye has taken a position two-thirds of the way around the crescent shaped mound. Cora has sought him out. 
HAWKEYE 
doesn't react as Cora enters. He's scanning the trees; not looking at her. They whisper ... 
CORA Why didn't you bury those people? 
HAWKEYE Anyone lookin' to pick up our trail, would see it as a sign of our passing ... 
CORA You knew them. 
Hawkeye looks at her and nods. 
CORA (stiffly) You were acting for our benefit. And I apologize. I misunderstood you. 
HAWKEYE Well that is to be expected. My father ... 
CORA Your "father"? 
HAWKEYE Chingachgook. He warned me about people like you. 
CORA He did? 
HAWKEYE Yes. He said ... "do not try to make them understand you." 
CORA What?! 
HAWKEYE Yes. And "do not try to understand them. That is because they are a breed apart and they make no sense ..." 
Cora's indignation is cut off because ... 
UNCAS 
moving fast. He gestures back the way he came and it means they're in jeopardy. Uncas disappears around the mound. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR BIRCH FOREST - TREES - NIGHT 
Nothing. Imperceptibly we move closer and start to see shapes blocking out part of the white birch. 
RED-PAINTED FACE 
white eyes. A ruff of red hair stands straight up at the back of the large man's head. Slit and monstrously elongated earlobes are weighted with silver. He's followed by others. Wary, silently, they hunt. 
DEEPER: MORE OTTAWA 
Towards the rear are two French Rangers ("Coureurs des Bois") from Le Regiment de la Sarre. They're bearded, dirty, dressed Indian-style in moccasins, leggings and breechcloths with hooded hunting shirts. There's nothing clumsy about them. They're the 18th century version of Special Forces who've gone indigenous. If they and the Ottawa find our people, it's all over. 
ALICE 
seeing the red-painted Ottawa approach, starts to panic. Her hyperventilating and involuntary small sounds of fear will reveal their position. A hand covers her mouth and silences her struggling. WIDEN. It's Uncas. His other arm is around her, holding her, looking towards the advancing Ottawa. 
CORA There was none! 
MUNRO What? 
CORA There was no letter. 
MUNRO I sent three men to Webb! 
HEYWARD One called Magua arrived. 
CORA He delivered no such message. 
Munro's stunned. 
MUNRO Does Webb not even know we are besieged? 
HEYWARD Sir. Webb has no idea. And he certainly does not know to send reinforcements! 
Munro has nowhere for his rage to go. Meanwhile, Alice clings to her father. At 45-55, the British Army has been his life. He blindly believes in its institutions, though officers like Webb would disdain his Scots origins. From under his fury: 
MUNRO (flat) What happened to you? 
HEYWARD (suddenly tired) Ambush ... on the George Road. This Magua led us into it. (pause) ... eighteen killed. It's these men who saved us. They guided us here ... 
MUNRO Thank you. How can I reward you? 
No answer. Then ... 
HAWKEYE Help ourselves to a few horns from your powder stores. 
MUNRO What else? 
UNCAS Some food. 
MUNRO (to Uncas) I'm indebted to you. And get your side sewn up, young man. 
MUNRO 
sees his exhausted and bloodstained surgeon in the doorway that leads to the next rooms. 
MUNRO (bellows) Mr. Phelps! 
PHELPS' face lights up when he sees Cora Munro. 
PHELPS Miss Cora! How are you? 
CORA (smiles) Fine, Mr. Phelps. Have you cat gut and a suturing needle? (for Uncas) And we could use some rum, clothes, and a place to wash ... 
Cora tries to remove Alice from her father, but she clings to him. Munro holds her tighter. Then he whispers something to her. She nods her head. And Cora takes her. They exit. 
MUNRO 
is moved beyond words by his daughters' presence. There's a break, a pause ... 
MUNRO (to Heyward over table map) What a place for them ... 
HEYWARD Might I enquire after the situation, sir, given that I've seen of the French engineering from the ridge above? 
MUNRO (perfunctory) Logistics are his guns are bigger than mine and he has more of them. They keep our heads down while his sappers make thirty yards of trench a day. His thirteen inch mortars have a two hundred yard range, so when they're close enough, they'll move them in, lob explosive rounds over our walls and pound us to dust. 
HEYWARD They look to be three hundred yards out. You have three days. 
MUNRO Bloody murderers. 
HAWKEYE A man, here, can make a run straight through to Webb. 
MUNRO ... not enough time to get to Albany and back with reinforcements ... 
A Sergeant enters, snaps to attention, says something to Beams, exits. 
HEYWARD Webb's not in Albany. He marched the 33rd to Fort Edward two days ago. 
MUNRO Webb's at Edward? 
HEYWARD Yes, sir. 
MUNRO Only twelve miles away! He could be here day after tomorrow. (to Hawkeye) Find your man, sir! Captain Beams will give you the message. 
Beams nods. Munro turns back to the map. Hawkeye has something else to say. 
HAWKEYE John Cameron's cabin. We come upon it last night. Burned out. Everyone murdered. And it was Ottawa. They're allied to the French. 
Munro looks at him. 
MUNRO Yes, Mr. Poe? So? 
HAWKEYE It was a war party. It means they're on the attack up and down the frontier. 
Munro turns to look at him for a long beat. Munro doesn't like what his response must be to this news. He turns to Heyward and the map. 
MUNRO (cold) Thank you. 
Hawkeye's dismissed, frozen out. 
HAWKEYE (to Uncas) You 'bout done holdin' hands with Miss Munro? 
Uncas laughs, looking from her to Hawkeye. Then he's up and he hurts. Cora starts to tend another wounded man. As they start out, Hawkeye hesitates. Sensing it, Cora turns. 
CORA What are you looking at, Mr. Poe? 
HAWKEYE Why, I am looking at you, Miss. 
Cora measures the directness of Hawkeye's manner. It's not insolent, only unsettling. Feeling foolish; she turns. He leaves. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR FRENCH TRENCHES - SAPPEURS & ENGINEERS - 	NIGHT 
having worked through the night, are still digging the diagonally-advancing trench. We note it's closer than it was. 
EXTERIOR FRENCH TRENCHES - FRENCH PICKETTS 
at their posts guard the sappeurs. Meanwhile ... 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY, WEST SIDE - SALLY-PORT - NIGHT 
opens. Ten Mohawks and Rangers crawl towards the French lines. Meanwhile ... 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY, PARAPET - HAWKEYE & UNCAS - NIGHT 
are low and out of French sight in the northeast battery. Four others are with them, including Captain Jack. Stacked rifles are against the casement. We don't know why. Each rifle is within reach of Hawkeye's hand. Hawkeye is taking extra care loading Killdeer. He charges it once, then overloads the powder by a quarter charge. 
UNCAS You told him about the raid? 
HAWKEYE (nods) He does not want to hear it. (pause) But he is gonna have to. 
JACK (to one man) Get together by the West Battery James & Ian, Sharitarish & William. 
Hawkeye uses the fine cotton he took from Cora. Uncas sees it. 
UNCAS Tight weave. 
HAWKEYE Another forty yards? 
Uncas nods. Hawkeye wets it to make a tighter gas seal and rams it home. The tighter fit requires more effort. 
HAWKEYE 
looks below to ground level ... 
A FRONTIERSMAN - COURIER 
Two pistols are holstered in a sash around his chest. He wears no hat and carries no pack. He waits by the sally-port door. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR FRENCH TRENCH - THREE PICKETS - NIGHT 
are suddenly tomahawked and knifed by stripped down 42nd Highlanders and Mohawks. Alarm is raised. French and some Huron run to advance. Shots are fired. The Rangers & Mohawks fall back. 
FRENCH 
emboldened, pursue ... 
TRENCH IN FRONT OF WEST WALL 
suddenly Heyward and three companies of the 62nd regiment of Foot (60 men) are over the top in perfect formation ... 
HEYWARD Sergeant! Form three ranks! 
SERGEANT MAJOR Sir! (bellows to troops) Upon the center, wheel to the left-about! March! (three motions; drums) Rear ranks, proper distance! (the rear ranks back up six paces) Front ranks, take your distance! March! (everybody moves) Halt! (in unison they slam to a stop) Make ready! (muskets snap to port arms) 
MOHAWKS & HIGHLANDERS 
dodge right & left of the 62nd's line of fire. 
FRENCH 
are coming forward. Their sergeants trying to stop and form their men in ad-libbed French. 
62ND REGIMENT OF FOOT 
SERGEANT MAJOR (dead cool) First rank! Second rank! Present arms! (muskets shouldered) 
HEYWARD Fire!!! 
Like one shot, lightening, smoke and .65 caliber death screams from the first two ranks like a scythe, cutting down ... 
REVERSE: FRENCH 
Fourteen wounded or killed ... 
62ND REGIMENT OF FOOT - HEYWARD 
CORA & ALICE 
Alice is in her father's bed. Cora is collecting and tearing linen into strips for bandaging. 
HEYWARD Cora ... I wanted to talk to you, but I'll come back another time ... 
Alice looks at the two of them and rises out of the bed. 
CORA Alice ... 
ALICE Talk to Duncan, Cora ... I must manage ... I cannot be an invalid schoolgirl. (starts for door) I'll see if Mr. Phelps needs anything ... 
She leaves. 
HEYWARD I'm sorry, I didn't mean to ... 
CORA Her nerves are shattered. She's trying to be brave. 
There's a lot going on under Cora's surface. We don't know what it is, but it's disconcerting. 
HEYWARD Cora, I adore you and, when we come together, we will be the happiest couple in England ... I am certain of that. More than ever before. (softens) I believe you must trust the judgment of others who hold your welfare so close to their hearts ... 
CORA Duncan ... (pause) Duncan, I promised you an answer. You have complimented me with your persistence and patience ... But the decision I've come to is I'd rather make the gravest of mistakes than surrender my own judgment. 
Heyward is stunned. 
CORA And it's been unfair to you, while I search myself for feelings, which, if they were there and as strong as they ought to be, would've made themselves known long ago ... (pause) Take my admiration and friendship, Duncan. And please take this as my final answer. It must be no. 
Heyward' shattered inside. 
HEYWARD I see ... 
CORA I am sorry, Duncan ... 
Heyward nods. He's speechless. He's errect as he leaves the room. 
CLOSE: CORA 
The tension rushes out of her and she shudders and leans against the quarter-timbered walls for support. Then she collects the linen and starts out. 
CUT TO ... 
INTERIOR FORT, INNER CORRIDOR - CORA 
moving through the corridor past wounded. Two French mortar bombs explode above one of the casements. We hear shrill screams in the distance and ... 
HAWKEYE (O.S.) ... it was no raidin' party out for pillage. The cabin was attacked by a war party. They are sweeping south down the frontier spreading terror among farms and Mohawk villages 'cos all the men are here. 
IAN (O.S.) And my cabin's not thirteen miles south of Cameron's! 
Cora, passing the open door to Munro's crowded office, now hesitates. 
CORA'S POV: THE ROOM 
Hawkeye, Captain Jack Winthrop, Ian, seven or eight other militia spokesmen, Munro, Heyward, two adjutants, one lieutenant of Rangers. 
MUNRO (to Jack) I must receive proof more conclusive than Mr. Poe's opinion before I weaken our defenses by allowing militia to withdraw. 
JACK Chingachgook's of the same opinion. Taken together, that's gospel. Your fort will	 stand or fall depending on Webb and reinforcements, not these colonials' presence. 
MUNRO I judge military matters, Captain Winthrop, not you. 
HAWKEYE That judgment is not more important than their right under agreement with Webb to defend their farms & families ... Major Heyward was at John Cameron's. He saw what it was. 
MUNRO (looking to Heyward for confirmation of his point of view) What did you see, Major? 
Heyward looks around the room. And he catches the doorway ... 
CORA 
beyond the periphery of men, staring at him. 
HEYWARD 
Munro is expecting him to be the good soldier in defense of British military interests. At the same time ... 
CORA 
examines him with a cool, level stare. 
HEYWARD 
looks at Munro. More French rounds detonate O.S. What if Webb gets here and they need to launch a counter-attack? They need every man they have. It's his moment of decision ... 
HEYWARD (to Munro) I saw nothing that would lead me to the conclusion it was other than a raid by savages bent on thievery. 
Jack Winthrop grabs Nathaniel. 
HAWKEYE You're a liar! 
CORA'S 
saddened. Heyward's stature has fallen irrevocably in her eyes. 
crosses to an awakened Cora. He touches her face. He's desperate to drill these next words into her brain. 
CORA What is it? 
HAWKEYE I don't know. Whatever happens you stay with your father. You stay among the officers. 
Cora looks up at Hawkeye. We feel forboding. O.S. are heard drums ... 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR FRENCH LINES - MUNRO, HEYWARD, BEAMS - DAY 
The drums are from Munro's honor guard. They stop. 
REVERSE: FRENCH SOLDIERS 
Marquis de Montcalm, immaculate, backed by his guard of honor in white, grey and medium blue with six foot by eight foot regimental colors and the French flag (gold fleur-de-lis on a field of blue). 
FACES 
They carried two hundred and forty-five bateaux across a ten mile portage, all their supplies and artillery, and then rowed down the length of Lake George to get here. To 	them, assaulting this fort is the easy part. The drummers of the honor guard play a tattoo behind them. 
INDIAN FACES 
Huron, Ottawa, Osage, Choctaw, Fox ... hear the drum of the honor guard and wait. They're in war paint. Many tattoos. Split ears. The Osage scalping locks are hennaed red. Canadiens among them are bearded, dirty, half savage ... At their head ... 
MAGUA 
in full war paint, with a coterie of Huron warriors, silent, waiting. Drums. 
INTERIOR FORT - ENGLISH TROOPS (TABLEAUX) 
grim, silent, watchful. 
COLONIAL MILITIA & MOHAWK INDIANS IN WAR PAINT (TABLEAUX) 
watching the parlay from a blown apart battery. Silent. 
WIDE: FRENCH & ENGLISH 
and their honor guards. Montcalm steps forward and sweeps his plumed hat to the ground in a courtly bow. Munro bows coldly. 
MONTCALM Colonel Munro, I have known you as a gallant antagonist. I am happy to make your acquaintance as a friend. 
MUNRO And I to make yours, Monsieur le Marquis. 
MONTCALM Please accept my compliments for the strong and skillful defense of your fortress. Under the command of a lesser man it would have fallen long ago given the superior numbers and material ... mere chance has allowed me to array against you ... 
MUNRO Monsieur le Marquis, I am a soldier, not a diplomat. You called this parlay for a reason. 
MONTCALM You have already done everything which is necessary for the honor of your Prince. I will forever bear testimony that your resistance has been gallant and was continued as long as there was hope. But now, I beg you to listen to the admonitions of humanity. I beg you to consider my terms for your surrender. 
MUNRO However I may apprise such testimony from Monsieur Montcalm, Fort William Henry is strong and stands. 
MONTCALM Honor that is freely accorded to courage, may be refused obstinacy ... These hills afford to us every opportunity to reconnoiter your works and I am possibly as well acquainted with your weak condition as you are yourselves. 
Is Webb really en route and Montcalm hopes to take the fort by duplicity before British reinforcements arrive? 
MUNRO Perhaps the General's glasses can reach to the Hudson and he knows the size and imminence of the army of Webb ...? 
Montcalm takes a moment to reply and appears genuinely sympathetic to Munro. 
MONTCALM (quietly) My scouts intercepted this dispatch intended for you. 
Munro is puzzled, suspicious. 
MONTCALM (to Bougainville) Read the dispatch. 
HEYWARD & MUNRO] 
BOUGAINVILLE (O.S. - reading) "Colonel Munro - Fort William Henry. I have no men available to send to your rescue. It is impossible. I  advise you to seek terms for surrender. Signed Webb." 
Munro is rocked, as if struck by a blow. Bougainville hands Heyward the letter. 
HEYWARD (confirming) This is the signature of Webb. (to Munro) And I know the temper of our men. Rather than spend the war in a French prison hulk in Hudson Bay, they'd fight to the end. 
MUNRO (to Montcalm) You have heard your answer, Monsieur le Marquis. (salutes) 
Munro starts off. Montcalm stops him. 
MONTCALM Sir. (challengingly) I am incapable of mistreating brave men. I beg you not to sign the death warrant of so many until you have listened to my terms. 
Munro turns. 
MUNRO Such as ...? 
MONTCALM My master requires the fort be destroyed. But, for you and your comrades, there is no privilege that will be denied. None of your men will see the inside of a prison barge. They're free to go so long as they return to England and fight no more on this continent, and the civilian militia return to their farms. 
MUNRO Their arms? 
MONTCALM They may leave the fortress fully armed, but with no ammunition ... Other than that, ask what you wish. 
Munro's impressed with Montcalm's generosity. 
Long pause, wheels turn. Then: 
MAGUA Many things my French father cannot do, Magua can. 
Montcalm reacts as if he hadn't thought of that. 
MONTCALM As the English march away, our soldiers and the Canadiens will be drawn to the looting of the fort ... except for a small guard ... 
Magua abruptly leaves Montcalm. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR WOODS - MAGUA - NIGHT 
walking back to the Huron camp. Reveal a Huron sub-chief has been in the woods, waiting for Magua. Now he joins him. They walk in silence. Then ... 
MAGUA (in Iroquois; re: Montcalm) I wonder at the blindness and pride of the white man. He believes only he knows how to speak falsely to make other men do his bidding. 
Magua exhales in derision. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR FORT, MAIN GATE - MUNRO - DAY 
at the end of the column, rides out on his horse. Both sides of the gate are jammed with armed French troops standing at attention. The French colors and honor guard are just outside the gate along with Bougainville, Chevalier de Levis, both on horseback as is - at the head - Montcalm. 
CLOSER: MUNRO 
trots past his walking column out the gate. He does not look at the French. 
MONTCALM 
salutes Munro and bows gravely from the saddle. 
CLOSER: MUNRO 
salutes Montcalm. 
MUNRO (eyes forward) Monsieur, the fort is yours. 
MID-COLUMN - ON HEYWARD 
marching with his 33rd Regiment of Foot well beyond the fort. The French troops have thinned out. Repressing shame, his backbone is rigid, his face is straight ahead. The 33rd marches in perfect cadence to the drum. In the B.G. Munro on his horse passes Heyward as he rides towards the front of his column. Heyward does not look at him. 
FRONT OF COLUMN - CORA WITH ALICE 
on the back of a mare. Alice, living through a wide-awake nightmare, is huddled under the arm of her sister. They ride behind the standard bearers. In the B.G. her father is seen approaching and takes his position at their side. Cora looks down the column, sheilding her eyes against the sun. We know who she's looking for ... Hawkeye. 
CORA'S POV: THE COLUMN 
The 62nd and 42nd Highlanders including Heyward ... thirty to forty women and a number of children - for safety - in the middle, some frontiersmen, Ongewasgone and many Mohawk, walking wounded. The column is still snaking its way out of the fort. No Hawkeye. 
CORA 
straining to see. 
EXTERIOR FORT - PRISONERS 
being assembled, their hands shackled. Hawkeye is among twelve or thirteen. He stands erect, walking out of the gate. The French are starting to pour in to loot the interior. Hawkeye looks to his left about twenty paces in front of him and sees ... 
UNCAS & CHINGACHGOOK 
on the other side of the column. Chingachgook cradles Killdeer as well as his own musket. They fall back to walk beside the prisoners on the other side of Hawkeye. Their eyes connect... We don't expect Hawkeye to stay shackled for the duration. 
RANK AND FILE FRENCH 
A few insults. The British soldiers answer. Nobody breaks rank. It's just talk. 
EXTERIOR ROAD - HAWKEYE 
His eyes sweep the column snaking its way into the v-shaped valley. The path cuts through the forested hills ahead. He sees ... 
HAWKEYE'S DISTANT POV: CORA 
riding near the front where there are no more French soldiers. Only a few scattered and curious Huron and Ottawa. She does not see him. 
PROFILE OF COLUMN - HIGH & WIDE 
as it passes left to right below like a long snake through the narrow valley. We're shooting from inside the dark woods. Lower, in the light, we see a scattering on both slopes of a couple of hundred Ottawa and Huron. They are in no order, are spread out and don't constitute a threat. They watch the column. SLOWLY THE CAMERA ... slides across the shoulders and back of a large man wearing black plumes in his scalp-lock and other than a breechcloth is almost naked. He is heavily war-painted ... 
FRONTAL - MAGUA 
and the left two-thirds of his face is painted red. The right third is painted black. Much silver is in his ears. His tomahawk is in his left hand. His cut-down musket in his right fist. Magua's attention is all focused to one point. 
MAGUA'S LONG & TIGHT POV: MUNRO & CORA & ALICE 
at the head of the column. This is the focus of Magua's attention. 
WIDE FRONTAL: COLUMN, STANDARD BEARERS & MUNROS 
Cora turns again to look for Hawkeye. 
CLOSER: CORA 
draws his sword and is passing orders to his sergeant major, scanning the hills ... 
EXTERIOR FORESTED SLOPE - MAGUA 
His eyes see Munro. 
WIDER & LOWER: MAGUA 
raises his musket in his fist and emits a war whoop. WE NOW SEE ... hundreds have been stalking the column, hidden in the trees, maybe thousands. Then ... 
WIDE: ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE 
FIRE from the trees crescendos within seconds revealing a spontaneous and massive ambush of mostly Hurons. They appear from behind every tree and it turns to a ROAR of musket fire, war whoops and screams as ... 
SOLDIERS & CIVILIANS 
dropping like flies and seemingly thousands of Hurons attack down both slopes. 
HAWKEYE 
is being unshackled by Uncas. The sergeant is rising from the ground where Chingachgook knocked him. Chingachgook throws Hawkeye Killdeer and Hawkeye shrugs into his pouch and powder horn as he races with Uncas for the head of the column ... 
EXTERIOR FORESTED SLOPE - MAGUA 
charging down the hill ... with his coterie of twenty Huron warriors, heading for the area in which he saw Munro. 
CORA & ALICE 
at the head of the disintegrating column. Cora's holding Alice's head to her bosom, covering her ears as if to protect her from the sounds. 
HEYWARD 
shouting orders. 
SERGEANT MAJOR Right - about face! March! First rank present! 
HEYWARD Fire! 
REVERSE: 
The volley knocks down fifteen of a horde of attacking Hurons. 
SERGEANT MAJOR Prime! Load! Second rank six paces forward! Present! 
Hurons are twenty yards away and closing. 
HEYWARD Fire! 
As the line of muskets belch smoke and fire ... 
WIDE: THE HILLS & PATH 
We're shooting into the "v" of the valley with Hurons and other tribes pouring down from both sides. (IMPORTANT: the combined musket fire of Hurons, English and Mohawks generates tremendous clouds of smoke which obscure action, close off views, isolate pockets of combat into surreal tableaux that we'll move in and out of. 
BRITISH TROOPERS 
using their useless muskets as clubs or with fixed bayonets - as the smoke and fog swirls among the men - fighting for their lives ... 
MAGUA 
glides through the scenes, striking and hunting. Some of his coterie of braves near him. He sees ... 
BLONDE WOMAN 
hugging the ground in fear. Magua throws her over. It's not Alice Munro. It's a woman protecting her baby. Magua walks on. One of the braves behind Magua raise his tomahawk. On his downswing ... 
HAWKEYE 
running through surreal patches, thinks he glimpses Cora two hundred yards away. 
HAWKEYE Cora! 
Chingachgook, on Hawkeye's left, slams down two Hurons with his war club. 
CORA & ALICE 
running through the chaos and murder and British troopers and Mohawks locked in struggle with Hurons. Cora's dress is torn. She holds Alice to her. There's a pistol in Cora's hand. 
ONE HURON 
scalping a prone soldier, rips the trophy from his head, turns and faces us. 
CORA 
shoots him in the face. 
EXTREMELY CLOSE: ALICE 
and her eyes take it all in. And her affect starts to flatten. A blankness suffuses her expression and the girl withdraws from this reality into a deep dark cave inside her head. 
HAWKEYE 
locked in combat. He tomahawks one Huron's arm with a slashing downstroke and comes right back into the face of the second with his backswing while his right hand fires Killdeer at ... 
Rank two did not retreat six paces. They stand in confusion. Heyward looks to see what's wrong. 
HEYWARD'S POV: THE REMNANTS OF THE 33RD REGIMENT OF FOOT 
are standing in water. They're up against Lake George. Their backs are to the wall. Last stand. Heyward straightens. 
TWO FRENCH OFFICERS 
on horseback try to intercede in the slaughter of five women. One French officer is shot by a Huron. The other French officer runs through that Huron and shoots the second. Then his horse is shot out from under him and he goes down ... 
JESUIT 
pleads with an Abnaki to give up a child he's holding by the legs in one hand. He offers his cross. The Abnaki throws the baby to the Jesuit, Pere Roubaud. 
UNCAS 
sees a flash of something yellow. So does Hawkeye. They charge into the swirling chaos of attacking bodies. As we lose sight of them ... 
ALICE 
on her hands and knees. A massive Ottawa pulls her upright by her hair about to take her life and her scalp. He's struck by a rock in the hands of Cora which barely phases him. He bats her aside and returns to Alice, when suddenly ... 
OTTAWA WARRIOR 
is spun, punched and tomahawked into the ground by Hawkeye. Uncas has Alice and Cora ... 
TWO RANGERS AND A MOHAWK WARRIOR 
from the earlier group are nearby. They combine with Hawkeye to fight their way out with bayonets and tomahawks. 
HAWKEYE, UNCAS, CHINGACHGOOK, TWO RANGERS, A MOHAWK & MUNRO'S DAUGHTERS 
back through the swirling smoke. There seems to be a lull. Then they're hit from the side by musket fire. One of the Rangers is shot, the other wounded. Hurons attack. The Mohawk supports the wounded Ranger. 
HAWKEYE 
shields Cora as they back up. 
CHINGACHGOOK 
smashing his war club straight down on a Huron, reaches for the man's musket and shoots another. Then he sees ... 
SMOKE DRIFTING OVER WATER 
It's glass-smooth. And the bows are barely visible of three or four Huron war canoes. 
THE SHALLOWS - HAWKEYE, CHINGACHGOOK, UNCAS, CORA, ALICE, THE RANGER & THE MOHAWK 
back into the water. They're pursued by Ottawa and Hurons as they fight their way to the canoes. 
CORA 
held up by Hawkeye, suddenly screams. 
ANGLE 
something underwater is pulling her down. An Ottawa brave rockets out of the shallows. Before he's erect, Hawkeye slams him back into the water and FIRES. 
WOUNDED RANGER 
has shoved a large birch canoe at them. 
HAWKEYE 
Suddenly, the Mohawk fighting with them is shot and spins to face Hawkeye. His hands rest on Hawkeye's shoulders. Hawkeye looks into his face. Tries to hold him up, tries to rescue him. A frozen moment. Hawkeye's staring into his eyes and the man is staring into Hawkeye's as the light goes out ... Hawkeye lets him slide into the water and float away. He moves Cora and Alice towards the canoe ... 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR LAKE GEORGE - WATER & SWIRLING SMOKE - DAY 
The bottom of the frame is water like glass. Smoke obscures the background. Fingers tendril towards us. Out of the mist we HEAR small splashing and then the high bow of a war canoe defines itself. It's paddled towards us. 
HAWKEYE, CHINGACHGOOK & UNCAS 
Cora's behind Hawkeye. Alice and the wounded Ranger are near Uncas. 
CLOSER: HAWKEYE & CORA 
Cora looks left. Her eyes go wide. 
CORA No! 
HAWKEYE 
spins. 
HEYWARD & TWO TROOPERS OF THE 33RD IN A SECOND CANOE 
have emerged from the smoke ten feet from them. Heyward's aiming a horse pistol at Hawkeye. 
HAWKEYE 
is non-plussed. He doesn't stop paddling. 
The canoes enter the white water and they're so light, they're jet-propelled. 
CANOE POV: EIGHT FOOT WAVE 
racing in the same direction they are. They hit it straight on and it shoots over them and they're drenched by two waves coming from the sides. 
HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK 
paddle like fiends to get momentum and control. 
UNCAS' CANOE 
Same thing. When they crested the wave Uncas hollers at them to "pull" and they do. As soon as they're through it, Uncas slams the paddle in the water and makes the canoe revolve a hundred and eighty degrees in a vortex so that now it's going through stern-first or the stern becomes the bow, so that Uncas could pilot it a different way through a hazard of ... 
EXPOSED ROCKS 
jutting out of the water. 
WIDE - BOTH CANOES 
Hawkeye didn't have to turn because Chingachgook, at the bow, uses his paddle to shove the canoe away from jutting rocks. Uncas does the same. Past the jutting rocks, Uncas swings it back around while ... 
WHITE WATER 
smashes into the camera. 
ALICE & CORA 
as the canoe roller-coasters and water bursts the bow. Then suddenly it's through and the water is miraculously smooth. 
CANOES 
The Ranger, the Redcoats and even Heyward feel the exhilaration of the ride. That's because they think they're home free. 
HAWKEYE Here's where it gets tricky ... 
Heyward turns to look in front of him. He doesn't know what the hell Hawkeye's talking about. 
HEYWARD'S POV: THE RIVER AHEAD 
looks glass-smoth. Although there is a distant ROAR of sorts. Then Heyward realizes: something's wrong with this picture. 
CLOSER: HEYWARD 
The look on his face starts to change. 
HEYWARD'S POV: TIGHTER 
The glass surface of the river continues to a line then falls off the end of the world. The river just ends ... 
BOTH CANOES: HEYWARD, REDCOATS, THE RANGER 
realize they're heading for the lip of a waterfall. There's a couple of outcroppings of rock in the center at the very edge. We are at Glen Falls. 
HAWKEYE Don't move ... 
AERIAL SHOT 
from the other side of the falls. It's a two hundred foot high, death-defying cataract. The canoes - slightly above us - will go right over. 
TWO CANOES 
At the last moment, Hawkeye & Uncas land both on either side of the larger rock outcropping. It is literally at the lip of the falls. 
HEYWARD 
grabs a rock to anchor the bow of the canoe. He loses his grip. The canoe rockets for the edge. 
UNCAS 
lurches sideways, grabs a tree root. He is the only link of the canoe to earth. The bow, with Heyward, is literally hanging over the edge. Uncas strains and pulls the canoe to the rock. He gestures to Heyward. 
HEYWARD 
crawls forward and makes the island. Then the two Redcoats. Finally Uncas. The canoe rockets over the falls. Meanwhile ... 
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ISLAND 
Hawkeye has beached his canoe and is camouflaging it with driftwood and brush. As they clamber over the high pieces of broken limestone, we see Hawkeye is slipping into a crevice. He motions to Cora. Uncas carries the wounded Ranger. Heyward helps Alice ... 
CUT TO ... 
INTERIOR GLEN FALLS CAVES - FISSURE - TWILIGHT 
The irregular opening of medium blue sky is obscured by the black silhouetted forms of Hawkeye, Cora and then the others entering. 
HEYWARD Where do we go from here? 
HAWKEYE We don't. 
HEYWARD I don't understand! 
HAWKEYE This is it, as far as we can go ... If we're lucky, they'll be figurin' we can't have come this way and must've beached our canoes and headed cross land. If we're very lucky, they'll figure we went over the falls. 
INTERIOR GLEN FALLS CAVE - HAWKEYE -NIGHT 
hears the distant howl. He's now lit silver blue by the moonlight through the falling water. Hawkeye knows it means Hurons are out there. He exchanges worried glances with Uncas & Chingachgook. 
UNCAS 
immediately starts up the right acclivity to one fissure, and Chingachgook moves carefully to the first fissure. Hawkeye follows. 
HAWKEYE 
His countenance gives way momentarily. All his experience seems of no avail. He touches the side of Cora's face. Grabs Killdeer and follows Chingachgook. 
ALICE 
sensing new danger, slips away on her own. 
CORA 
crosses to the Ranger who's semi-conscious, feverish and getting delirious. She can't do a thing except hold his hand and think of her father. 
CUT TO ... 
INTERIOR SOUTH FISSURE - HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK 
below the edge, listen & wait, testing the environment with all their senses ... 
NORTH FISSURE - UNCAS 
against one wall, has his ear cocked, monitoring, facing away from the sky ... 
ALICE 
looks at the sky through the fissure. She sees the starfields and feels silver moonlight pull her forward. She starts out onto the island, oblivious, unaware she'll expose them. Suddenly ... 
UNCAS 
yanks her down next to him. He pulls her head into his chest, looking out over the edge, his tomahawk in front of him, his musket near his right hand. There is no sign she was seen. 
UNCAS & ALICE 
He relaxes, looks at her and puts his finger to his lips telling her to be silent. Languorously, she lies back, closes her eyes and lays a hand on his shoulder, palm up, as if he were a prince in a romantic fantasy. Uncas tries to restrain her. 
ALICE'S 
eyes slowly open. Oblivion disappears. It's replaced with escalating fear. She holds onto Uncas with desperation. Her fingers claw his shoulders. She buries her face in his chest. 
ALICE Uncas ... 
Her body shudders. Her terror's total. He tries to restrain and calm her. She won't let him. Then her mouth seeks his and in the passion of despair and fear and wanting life, she holds him between her thighs. And Uncas is confused, but Alice whispers his name and he responds. He loves her in the half-light. 
UNCAS 
his hand buried in her hair irradiated by the moon, then she seems to reach some emotional climax and begins to cry softly, and Uncas stops making love to her and holds her. Then she's flooded with shame. He reaches for her. She jerks away. He reaches for her again and clutches her to him. And she breaks down. Then he turns her face to him, but her expression has completely flattened. 
WIDER ANGLE 
She's not a lover to Uncas now. She's pitiful & stricken and he comforts her. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR RIVER - MAGUA - NIGHT 
beaches a canoe on the bank. He and eight braves ease out. His war paint is fresh: green handprints on his chest and black and green on his face. Black plumes are affixed to his scalp-lock and his shawl is over his left shoulder. The right arm carrying his musket is exposed. Many scalps are tied to his tomahawk. He walks towards us approaching the island, two hundred yards away ... 
CUT TO ... 
INTERIOR SOUTH FISSURE - HAWKEYE - NIGHT 
checks his powder horn. Nearly empty. He looks at Chingachgook. 
CUT TO ... 
INTERIOR GLEN FALLS ISLAND, CAVE - CORA - NIGHT 
with the Ranger, looks up. Hawkeye enters. The look on his face. Then hers. They've been discovered. Now they're backed into a hole in the ground with no powder and no way out. 
CUT TO ... 
INTERIOR GLEN FALLS, CAVE - HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK - NIGHT 
Chingachgook talks to him in Mohican. Momentarily the anger and frustration is seen on Hawkeye's face. All his experience & craft has been to no avail. He looks at Cora. Back to Chingachgook. Chingachgook states something terse in Mohican. Hawkeye agrees. Heyward's confused. He doesn't know what they're talking about. Cora has understood Chingachgook's intent perfectly. 
CORA Yes. Go ahead. 
HEYWARD (explodes) What the bloody hell plan is this? 
HAWKEYE (to Cora) In this there is a chance. If I live, I can try to free you. If we don't go, there is no powder, there's too many of them. Though my heart would keep me here, in that there is no chance. None. I can do nothing. Do you understand? 
CORA Yes. I want you to go. 
HEYWARD Coward! Coward back at the fort. Coward here. 
Hawkeye uses discipline not to kill the man. 
CHINGACHGOOK'S POV: WATER 
rocketing at us, battering and drowning us. We glimpse something downstream ... 
CHINGACHGOOK 
tries to focus, slammed against rocks, he's striking out towards the right, swimming against the current. He's grabbing for something. 
KILLDEER'S MUZZLE 
and leather shoulder-strap. Chingachgook's hand grabs it. The current rushing past tries to steal him from Uncas and Hawkeye, who're also beaten, bloodied, exhausted. They pull the older, larger man from the water and ... 
ON THE ROCK 
all three lie there, almost devoid of energy. Then Hawkeye rises, looks at the others. Chingachgook nods. He's up. Then Uncas, and they're moving off into the calm eddy between the rock they landed on and the shoreline. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR FOREST - HURONS - DAY 
move along animal paths. 
CORA & ALICE 
struggle through the branches of trees. No one helps them. When they fall behind, they are pushed forward. 
HEYWARD 
badly beaten, bound, staggers ahead to get behind Maqua. Then: 
HEYWARD If Magua give women to Yengeese soldiers ... will receive many gifts. 
MAGUA (as if considering) Gifts? 
HEYWARD Three, four oxen ... much wampum. 
MAGUA Wampum? 
HEYWARD Yes. 
MAGUA Does Yengeese Major have property across salt sea? 
HEYWARD Yes. 
MAGUA Yengeese Major give all property to Magua. Magua give Yengeese Major much wampum, many gifts, maybe three, four oxen. 
Magua looks at Heyward derisively. Does this white man think he's an idiot? 
HEYWARD Gold could be arranged. 
MAGUA For Munro children? 
HEYWARD Yes. 
MAGUA How much gold has the master of the Yengeese? 
HEYWARD The King? The King has mountains of gold! 
Long pause as if Magua and King George II were seriously considering this 	transaction. 
MAGUA Not enough. 
Heyward is first realizing with whom he's playing. 
HEYWARD What is enough? 
MAGUA Heart. Give Magua new heart. 
Magua totally disdains the Englishman and walks away from him, starting up a steeper forested hill. 
CUT TO ... 
EXTERIOR FOREST - HAWKEYE, UNCAS & CHINGACHGOOK - TWILIGHT 
running cross-country after the Huron column. They leap over fallen logs and keep going. 
FRONTAL: HAWKEYE 
breathing hard, his lips are drawn back, sweat stains his buckskins. 
PROFILE: UNCAS 
runs. Then sees something. 
BENT BRANCH 
where Cora & Alice were struggling up the animal path. 
REAR SHOT 
as they race across a stream away from us after the war party and into the night ... 
CUT TO ... 
Sachem gestures with his hand to Magua. Magua reluctantly stops advancing on Hawkeye. Heyward's French translation has faded to a murmur. We hear Hawkeye's English. 
HAWKEYE Let the children of the dead Colonel Munro go free and take the fire out of the English anger over the murder of their helpless ones. 
MAGUA (to Sachem) Our father, Montcalm, is greater than the Yengeese in the arts of war. The Huron do not fear English anger. 
HAWKEYE (to Sachem) Wise one, the French fathers made peace and swore to their honor not to break the friendship. Magua broke it. It is false that the French would not be friends, still, to the Huron. 
Sachem reacts. 
MAGUA (laughs) It made our French father happy to never have to fight the same Yengeese again. He told me this without telling me this. 
Hawkeye realizes this is true. 
HAWKEYE So the Huron are the servants of the French? To do what the French are shamed to do? 
MAGUA No. (to Sachem) Huron serve no one. The French father believes he fooled Magua because he is so proud of his cleverness, he is blind. But it is the Huron path that Magua walks down, not the French one ... Now, Les Francais, also, fear Huron. That is good. When the Huron is strong from their fear, we will make the terms of trade with Les Francais. And we will trade as the white man trades. Take land from the Abnakes; fur from the Osage, Sauk & Fox. And make the Huron great. Over other tribes. No less than the whites, as strong as the whites. 
Hawkeye appears to be losing his debate with Magua. 
HAWKEYE (to Sachem) Magua would use the ways of Les Francais and the Yengeese ... 
MAGUA (to Sachem) The red man put down the bow, picked up the fire stick and became the best warrior in the forest. Yes. It is the only way. 
HAWKEYE Would the Huron make his Algonquin brothers foolish with brandy and steal his lands to sell them for gold to the white man? Would the Huron have greed for more land than a man can use? Like Francais Black Robes do? Would Huron kill tribes with disease? Would the Huron fool Seneca into taking all the animals in the forest for beads & brandy? But sell the fur to the white man for gold? ... (to Sachem) Those are the ways of Yengeese and Les Francais masters. Are they the ways of Huron men who hunt & work the land? Or of dogs? ... Magua's heart is twisted. He would make himself into what twisted him. A Dog, become Master of Dogs. But are Hurons dogs? ... Magua's way is false. It is like the white sickness. Magua's way will bring only sadness and shame. Is there another way? I don't know. (pauses) I am Nathaniel of the Yengeese; Hawkeye, adopted son of Chingachgook, of the Mohican people ... Let the children of the dead Munro go free ... I speak the truth. 
Magua starts to rebut. Sachem holds up his hand and stops him. Nobody talks. Sachem whispers to the older men on either side of him. 
MAGUA 
waits for the decision. 
CORA 
looks to Alice, then to Hawkeye. 
HAWKEYE 
exchanges a desperate look with Cora and then senses the Sachem is staring at him from the perspective of nearly a century of laws & judgments. Then ... to every word. 
SACHEM The white man comes like a day that has passed. And night enters our future with him ... (pause) Our council talks since I was a boy: What is the Huron to do? (pause) But Magua would lead Huron down paths that make us not Hurons. (the judgment) Dark girl burn in fire to heal the twisted heart of Magua. 
Cora, hearing the sentence ... Hawkeye's losing her. 
SACHEM (continuing) Munro daughter with moon in her hair must be Magua's wife so Munro's seed doesn't die. 
Alice is gone, living in some dark recess of her mind. 
SACHEM (continuing; dissolves back to French) ... and Yengeese officer not go to Les Francais, but back to Yengeese so their hatred burns less bright. La Longue Carabine, go in peace. 
People move, start to implement the sentence. Hawkeye's panicked. Cora is jerked upright. She looks at Hawkeye in terror: Sachem is starting to depart. 
HAWKEYE No! listen. (to Heyward) Tell him I'll trade him! Me for her! Tell him!! 
Heyward translates into rapid-fire French. 
HAWKEYE (shouts) I am La Longue Carabine! My death is a great honor to the Huron. Take me! 
Cora is jerked forward by three Hurons. Magua grabs Alice. Cora strikes at Magua. He knocks her aside. Chaos & confusion. Meanwhile: 
MAGUA (French; subtitled) This is not the voice of wisdom. I go to the Hurons of the Lakes! You are women. Send your arrows and guns to the Seneca, beg from them venison to eat, corn to grind. Slaves, dogs, rabbits, thieves ... I spit on you! 
Those Hurons who hear, do so in deadly, boding silence. Magua and his fourteen hard core braves start out as ... 
SACHEM 
heard Heyward's translation. He looks at Heyward, then looks at Hawkeye and he nods his head. 
HAWKEYE 
sees this. His eyes go to Cora. They've stopped dragging her towards the fire pit. Hawkeye steps forward to surrender. Cora is thrown at him. Cora looks around wildly. Instead of taking Hawkeye, two warriors grab Heyward. 
HEYWARD 
is immediately hamstrung and his legs collapse. He gasps. He's caught under the arms and dragged forward. 
HAWKEYE I said to trade me! 
Hawkeye's holding Cora. Heyward struggles to be seen. 
HEYWARD ... compliments, Mr. Poe. (pause) Take her and get out. 
CORA (standing) What are they doing to Duncan? Duncan! 
He's gone. They start to ease away from the mass of Hurons. 
HAWKEYE (low to himself) And my compliments to you ... 
CORA Alice? 
Hawkeye's concentration is on backing out of the Huron mob. Will the Sachem's judgment be honored? Will some warriors hack down Hawkeye & Cora? As they go ... 
CORA 
FOURTH 
FIRES, misses, swings. Uncas slips the swung musket, but it catches his elbow. Uncas' musket falls. Before it hits the ground his tomahawk is out and hacks Four over the edge ... 
MAGUA 
running forward past Five, confronts Uncas head on. It's incredibly fast. 
UNCAS' 
three tomahawk swings are dodged by Magua whose own knife streaks like silver flashes. Uncas, gashed on arms and chest, feints right and slams Magua with an open hand, closes and the men are intertwined steel and muscle ... and Magua throws Uncas. Going with him and rolling off Uncas, Magua's knife flashes into his armpit. Uncas' right arm is useless. He scrambles up. Next to the expertise of a mature warrior like Magua, Uncas' raw, young determination may not be enough. 
EXTERIOR - MEADOW - CHINGACHGOOK 
freezes. 
EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - UNCAS 
closing, swings. Magua moves inside, stabs Uncas twice, turns him to face the edge, ripping his head left to expose the right underside of his throat. 
CLOSE: MAGUA'S 
knife arm punches forward. 
WIDE: PROMONTORY 
Uncas falls down the face onto to the rocks. 
CHINGACHGOOK 
seeing his boy killed, CRIES out and is charging up the path, Hawkeye following. 
EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - ALICE 
backs to the edge. 
MAGUA 
moves on Alice. His knife is low, about to strike. She stares at him. Her eyes are like pools of deep water, calm, open, almost beatific. It stops Magua ... 
MAGUA 
inexplicably, drops his knife hand. He's riveted by her. About him, there's a glimmer of something else. He wears a human face for this one moment. He reaches out with his other hand to offer her safety. To bring her back from the edge ... 
ALICE 
looks down at Uncas, her lover, dead on the rocks below. She turns to Magua with enigmatic calm. Her eyes seem to see into him. She steps off the edge. She falls to her death next to Uncas ... 
EXTERIOR MEADOW - CORA 
collapses to her knees on the ground and her face falls forward into her hands ... 
HURON WARRIORS 
are running down the path to intercept Chingachgook, charging uphill, fueled by a father's rage, and Hawkeye. One Huron aims at the center of Chingachgook's chest ... 
HAWKEYE 
FIRES past his father's side. The Huron's blown off the path. Hawkeye races to reload on the run ... 
EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - MAGUA 
sees the approach of Chingachgook. 
TO CHINGACHGOOK 
Huron warriors are an irrelevance. He slams one aside with his musket. 
HAWKEYE FIRES. 
HURON 
with tomahawk, about to blindside Chingachgook, is SHOT DOWN. 
MAGUA 
charging Chingachgook. 
VERY WIDE 
Two men, like dots, race to collide at the center of the promontory. Now the others fall back... It's one-on-one. Hawkeye slows ... 
COMBATANTS 
Magua - confident, pumped up - feints with his left, his tomahawk appearing in his right, sweeping backhand, while his left, magically holding his blade, is jamming up to gut Chingachgook. Chingachgook's dead. Except ... 
CHINGACHGOOK 
isn't there. He rolled and, on one knee with his back to Magua, his arm slams rearward. The massive war club crashes into Magua's back. 
MAGUA 
stunned, turns to hatchet Chingachgook ... 
