for educational use only                                        for educational use only 
www.script-fix.com 
THE LAST SAMURAI 
by 
John Logan 
Revisions by Edward Zwick & Marshall Herskovitz 
Fade In: 
A BRIGHT BLUE TIGER 
Surrounded by a pack of dogs, ten of them snarling and gnashing their teeth. The TIGER'S, eyes burn with fury as he wheels in a circle, lunging at one dog clawing at another, keeping them all at bay. 
Suddenly, the TIGER leaps over the dogs and transforms into a WHITE BIRD, soaring majestically into the sky. 
THE FACE OF A JAPANESE MAN 
Sits up into frame, sweating, waking from a dream. He is KATSUMOTO. We will come to know him later. 
Fade to black. CREDITS OVER. 
The faint SOUND of a BRASS BAND. 
WINCHESTER REP (V.O.) the leader in all forms of armament used by the United States Army. When you need a friend, Winchester is by your side.         . 
THE FACE OF AN AMERICAN MAN 
As he smokes a cigar, barely listening. CAPTAIN _NATHAN ALGREN, U.S. Army, ret, 36 years old and looking every da y of it. His eyes are lined and saddened. He takes a swig from a flask. He is BACKSTAGE at: 
INT. CONVENTION HALL              SAN FRANCISCO          DAY 
Where a trade show is in progress. Scantily clad lovelies in red-white-and- blue undies demonstrate the nation's most important new export: arms. Every weapon imaginable is on display: rifles, pistols, even howitzers. Banners declaim the virtues of Winchester and Springfield. Of Colt and Remington and Smith & Wesson. Crowds mill around a stage. where: 
WINCHESTER REP Ladies and Gentlemen ... the Winchester Corporation is proud to bring to you... a true American hero. A patriot who has proven his gallantry time and again on the field of battle. 
LITTLE TIN SOLDIERS are all lined up. A mass of grey. Rebel troops surrounding a band of blue Union cavalry. A large, metal diorama. 
WINCHESTER REP I hope you will join us in welcoming ...Late of the U.S. Cavalry. The Savior of Sutter Hill ... Captain Nathan Algren! 
A last swig. Algren steels himself, then strides onstage as we reveal a banner: 
WINCHESTER PRESENTS: THE MIRACLE AT SUTTER'S HILL! 
Garish limelight from a row of foot lights illuminates Algren. 
ALGREN My thanks, Mr. McCabe... Ladies and Gents. 
He looks down at the little metal soldiers and begins to tell the story of the battle that made him famous. His narration is halting, unsteady: 
ALGREN ... On that fateful day, Johnny Reb had us in a spot, perched on the lonely top of Sutter's Hill, nothing but grey as far as the eye could see: Unhorsed and out of ammunition, I gazed down into the, um, mael... mael... (squints to see better) -maelstrom below us, and saw them moving up. 
We realize he is reading from cue cards. The little Rebel soldiers begin sliding up the metal hill. 
ALGREN I knew it was fight or die. Into the teeth of the enemy or we would all be buried... buried ... (loses his place, under his breath) Shit... (finds it again) ...on the same hill with our comrades a1ready gone to Merciful Heaven... 
A sudden flash: 
Algren's mind. The real battle of Sutter's Hill. The grim reality is ver y different from the dashing tale. Union soldiers scream in agony. Those horses still alive buck and froth at their tether.                      . 
Algren, a lieutenant then, moves among the panicked, bloody men. He stops beside a PRIVATE, his brother, DAVID ALGREN, 19, blonde, not much more than a boy. 
DAVEY They're coming, Nate. 
He looks over the wall. Rebel troops are moving up the hill. 
ALGREN Keep your head down. 
DAVEY (smiling) Papa alwa ys said we should've joined the navy. 
ALGREN What'd he know? (looks fondly at his brother) You watch me now. Do whatever I say. . 
DAVEY Aye-a ye, lieutenant. 
Algren punches his shoulder and moves on down the line. Nearby, Algren's friend, SERGEANT ZEBULAH GANT, though severel y wounded, reloads his revolver with the last of his ammunition. 
GANT How're the horses? 
ALGREN Better than you. Smell better, too. (looks at him) Can you hold on, Zeb? 
GANT (fighting the pain) I got I choice? 
Algren smiles sadly. His mend will die loon without medical attention. 
Algren moves down the line, bullets whizzing overhead. He kneels beside COLONEL BAGLEY, his commanding officer. 
BAGLEY (panicking) We need a flag. Find me a goddamn white flag! 
ALGREN What are you talking about?! 
BAGLEY Surrender, damn it! That's an order! 
Back to the convention hall: 
ALGREN No thought of surrender among those boy. Better to die as God made us, we thought, as soldiers... So I gave the order. Mister Bugler, sound mount up. Mister Bugler, sound prepare arms. There were only thirty of us, but we had fire in us yet. I looked down the hill at the destiny ordained for us. And gave the order. Mister Bugler, charge! 
The little Union cavalry soldiers begin moving down slots in the hill. 
On Sutter's Hill: 
Algren sits alone on the bed. He takes out a leather-bound journal and begins to write. 
ALGREN (V.O.) June 17th, 1876. The dead are with me tonight. They return each time I am obliged to tell their story. 
INT.            SQUALID BAR                NIGHT 
Algren sips absinthe. He stares at the milky, green liquid before him. 
ALGREN (V.O.) I can almost see them in the shadows, their bodies whole and beautiful once more. Sometimes it's as if they call to me in a sweet invitation -- 
EXT.                   GAS-LIT STREET              NIGHT 
Algren walks in the fog. Sputtering gas lamps give an unearthly glow. 
ALGREN (V.O.) "We are dead," they whisper, "and we are happy." 
INT.           SEEDY HOTEL ROOM                     NIGHT 
Algren is back in the hotel room. From his small suitcase, he takes the Medal of Honor, looks at it for a long moment. 
ALGREN (V.O.) "Do not be afraid," they whisper. "You have been dead, too." 
A sudden flash: 
We are back on Sutter's Hill. Algren's slaughtered cavalry litter the bloody ground, dead to the last man. A rebel army surgeon gives a cursory look at each body before it is loaded onto a wagon. 
Algren's turn is no different than the others. He is declared dead and hoisted unceremoniously onto the pile of corpses. 
Back in the. hotel room.: 
Algren sits, staring into the middle distance. 
ALGREN (V.O.) Is this why they gave their lives? So that I might disgrace their memory? 
He reaches into the suitcase and takes out a Colt revol ver. Stares at it, cracks the cylinder to make sure it's loaded. His finger wraps around the trigger, the barrel makes its wa y toward his head. 
And then, unaccountabl y, he is laughing. 
ALGREN (V.O.) And why, after taking so many lives, do I find myself incapable of taking just one more? 
A KNOCK on the door. Algren shuts his eyes, then calls out. 
ALGREN Go awa y. 
GANT (V .O.) Not exactly the greeting I imagined. 
Algren looks up. He knows that voice. He carefully puts the revolver back into the suitcase and shuts it before opening the door. 
GANT Thought you'd seen the last of me, I expect. 
Algren is filled with emotion, which he tries to hide. 
ALGREN Zeb... 
They embrace. 
ALGREN 
Sit. Please. 
Gant moves to the proffered chair with a pronounced limp. 
GANT ... Saw your little melodrama         toda y. Very inspiring... . 
ALGREN Given up soldiering to become a critic? 
Gant smiles and shakes his head. 
GANT Got a job for you, unless you're running for office... 
ALGREN I have I job. 
GANT I mean a real job. Back in uniform. 
ALGREN I' m retired. 
GANT I don't mean a U.S. uniform. 
Algren looks at him. Curious despite himself. 
INT.           RESTAURANT                  NIGHT 
Gant leads Algren into a lush San Francisco restaurant. Flickering gaslight and trays of lobster. COLONEL BENJAMIN BAGLEY (whom we saw in flashback) sits with the three Japanese men. Bagley's hair has greyed. He 
has his eye on a political future. 
BAGLEY Nathan, good to see you. 
ALGREN (stunned) Colonel Bagley... 
BAGLEY Sit down. This is Mr. Omura, from Japan, and his two associates who, so far as I can tell, don't have names... 
OMURA 40, is a handsome and intelligent man. He watches Algren closel y as Algren pours a glass or whiskey from a decanter. 
BAGLEY They're looking to hire real American soldiers to create the first Japanese Imperial Army. 
Algren looks at him. 
BAGLEY Japan's got it in mind to become a civilized country and they're willing to spend what it takes to hire white experts to do the job right. 
Algren takes a slow lip of whiskey. 
BAGLEY Sergeant Gant has already agreed to serve. You would be m y second-in-command. 
ALGREN We both know why you helped me, Colonel. Don't expect me to go all weepy with gratitude. 
BAGLEY I expect you to do your job. Save the self-pity for your own time. 
He turns and walks out, leaving Algren to stare at the empty glass. 
EXT.                 SHIP                       DAY 
Algren and Gant stand at the rail. 
GANT Hate boats. If the Lord bad wanted man to sail he wouldn't have created infantry. 
ALGREN How many rimes you puke today? 
GANT I'm down to two. 
Omura comes up next to them. OMURA I understand you are a scholar, Captain Algren. (to Gant) Have you read his book., Mr. Gant? 
GANT Can't say I have. 
OMURA An analysis of the triumph of weapons technology over antiquated military tactics. 
ALGREN (wr y) A real page-turner. Sold twelve copies. 
OMURA Nonetheless, I was impressed. I enjoy reading military history. I spent two years studying English at Princeton University. 
ALGREN And where did you learn to speak Japanese? 
Omura is perplexed by Algren's remark, then realizes he is being kidded. He laughs heartily. Algren laughs with him. A connection is made. 
OMURA Yes, and in Japanese there are twenty-seven words for "war." I will be impressed if you learn only half of them. . 
He walks away. Algren watches him go. His face darkens. 
ALGREN I got twenty-seven words too - Reb, Sioux, Pawnee, Blackfoot, Jappo. Only one language when it comes to war. 
EXT.               YOKOHAMA HARBOR                           DAY 
Like all Japan, Yokohama is at the cusp of a new era. 
Ancient sampans and wooden schooners beside freighters and steamships. 
EXT.                YOKOHAMA ­ DOCK                            DAY 
After 23 days at sea, they are all glad to climb down the gangplank. The Yokohama docks are a frenzy of languages and looks and smells and sounds. Japanese competes with German and English and French and Russian. Warehouses fl y the flags of a dozen countries. 
One striking Japanese character dominates: the symbol for, Omura. It is seen on buildings, warehouses, and the headbands of scores of laborers. 
A series of palanquins, litters carried by bearers, await our voyagers. 
As does SIMON GRAHAM, a dissipated Englishman who has lived in Japan for many yean. Slender and pale, with an occasional consumptive cough, in his 50's, he wears a white linen suit, a bit worse for wear. 
OMURA Captain Algren, this is Mr. Simon Graham. He will be your translator. 
GRAHAM Pleasure, Captain. 
BAGLEY You'll be quartered at the Embassy for now. 
OMURA The Emperor will summon you at his pleasure. 
Graham ushers Algren and Gant into their own less-ornate version. 
GRAHAM If you please, Captain... 
ALGREN They're gonna carry us? 
GRAHAM You're guests of the Emperor. You cannot walk. 
Algren notes the hoods covering the faces of the palanquin bearers. 
ALGREN Why the hoods? 
GRAHAM So you won't have to burden your eyes by looking at slaves. Oh, excuse me, they're servants now. (coughs, wipes a bit of blood) This wa y, gentlemen... 
INT /EXT            PALANQUIN - YOKOHAMA STREETS                             DAY 
Their bearers maneuver them through the bustling streets of Yokohama. White face painted geishas walk alongside bearded Russians. Traditional Japanese kimonos alongside European suits and hats, schizophrenic world of ancient Japan versus modern commercialism. 
GRAHAM Twenty years ago Yokohama was a lovel y little port. Then your Commodore Perry arrived and changed all that. 
ALGREN All this in twenty years? 
GRAHAM Japan has...embraced... Western wa ys. Hired lawyers from France, doctors from Germany, naval architects from Britain, civil engineers, railway designers, scientists, teachers. And, of course, warriors from the United States. 
ALGREN Buying the future. 
GRAHAM Or selling the past... 
INT.            GUEST QUARTERS                       DAY 
A shoji screen is opened by a bowing servant to reveal the clean, classic lines of a Japanese room. Algren is about to enter when Graham stops him, indicating for Algren to remove his boots. 
Algren scowls, confused, and struggles to pull off the high, filthy boots. He takes in the foreigness of the room, an arrangement of fl owers on a low table. 
ALGREN No chairs? . . 
GRAHAM Correct. And this-- (points to a mat) ..is your bed. 
ALGREN And this? 
He points to a block of wood. 
GRAHAM Your pillow. 
Algren glances to General Yoshitaka, who looks back wr yl y. 
ALGREN Sergeant Gant, have the men stand to attention. 
GANT Imperial Army, Atten-tion! 
Graham translates, rather mildly. 
ALGREN For God's sake, let's not keep it a secret who's in charge here ... Mr. Gant. 
GANT (roars) ALL RIGHT YOU SLANTY-EYED LITTLE BASTARDS STAND UP STRAIGHT OR I WILL SHIT-KICK EVERY ONE OF YOU COCKSUCKERS!! 
As the soldiers immediately stand to attention, we begin a montage of the training of the first Imperial Army: 
We see Gant drilling the men. Shouting at his translator. Trying to get them to march in formation. Algren is nearby, watching. 
ALGREN (V.O.) August 4,1876. As I watch this new army train, I cannot help but think of those who rode with me in me 23rd cavalry. 
Algren sits in his tent, writing in his journal. Outside, the Japanese are being taught the basics of firing tactics. 
ALGREN (V.O.) For four years they had survived, never once shrinking from the fire. And so, when given my order to charge the advancing rebel infantry, they never hesitated. ...And they all died. 
We see Algren showing the Japanese how to fire in formation. The old single-shot rifles they carry make reloading a painfully slow process. 
ALGREN (V .O.) Now I am training another army. In another civil war. 
Algren and Gant spar with sabers - Algren's expertise far exceeds Gant's, a fact which Gant accepts with good humor. 
ALGREN (V.O.) Is this why I was spared? Once again to lead men to their death? 
It is sunset Algren, Graham, and General Yoshitaka watch the training. General Yoshitaka speaks. 
YOSHlTAKA/ GRAHAM ... the problem is they're peasants. They have never had this sort of responsibility or power. 
Algren watches Gant march beside the Japanese. They are illuminated by the majestic red sunset 
ALGREN (to Graham) Ask him if they have a flag. 
Graham translates. Genera1 Yoshitaka responds. 
GRAHAM No flag. 
ALGREN They need a flag. 
EXT.                TOKYO ­ STREET                           EVENING 
Tokyo is a city in chaos. Everything seems out of balance. Dystopic. A collision of Eastern and Western. Algren and Gant watch as Graham prepares to take a photograph of an old merchant in front of his store. 
GRAHAM ... I've been doing this for years. Trying to capture it before it's all gone. Afraid I'm losing the battle. 
Algren silently watches the passers-by. Something draws his attention: 
Across the street. a man is striding down the crowded sidewalk. His martial bearings, two swords, traditional dress and unique top knot of hair instantly identify him to us as a samurai.                                       . 
We will meet him again later, he is UJIO. A terse, grim man in his 40's. His proud gait and rigid, imperious manner intrigue Algren. 
Most of the people on the sidewalk instantly step out of the wa y, bowing in deference. But two young Japanese in Western dress do not. 
Ujio stands before them, waiting for them to move. They don't. Tense words are exchanged. Ujio glares at them. Algren watches. 
ALGREN Mr. Graham... 
GRAHAM Ah... now this should be interesting... He's waiting for them to show deference. 
Across the street, Uji o barks out some harsh commands to the two Japanese men. They laugh in response. Then one of the men raises a hand and barks some clearly disrespectful words back-- 
Like lightning-- Ujio pulls out his long samurai sword - it flashes -- 
Cleanly beheading the disrespectful Japanese man -- 
The beheaded corpse begins to fall-- 
In one smooth motion, Ujio wipes his blade clean of the corpse as it falls and sweeps it back into its scabbard. The other man immediately drops to his belly, prostrating himself. 
Without another glance, Ujio walks awa y. His face is completely impassive. 
GANT What the hell was that? 
GRAHAM That...is a samurai. 
INT.          RESTAURANT                         NIGHT 
Sergeant Gant gazes unhappily at his dinner: glistening raw fish; tepid beancurds; boiled rice. Algren, Gant, Graham, and General Yoshitaka sit cross-legged on the floor. Gant finds this extremely uncomfortable. 
GRAHAM ... Before the edicts ever y citizen had to prostrate himself in the presence of a samurai. 
ALGREN What edicts are those? 
GRAHAM The Council of State has been passing a series of laws designed to eliminate the samurai. 
GANT Why? 
GRAHAM Because you are here now, Sergeant... For the last 800 years guarding Japan and fighting her wars was the exclusive occupation of the samurai. 
The next course arrives. Thick, black eel. Gant groans. 
GRAHAM Men like Mori Katsumoto were the most elite caste in Japanese societ y until the Council of State -- led by your friend Omura - decided the whole class had to go ... (munching eel) ... Most of the samurai accepted the new laws. But some didn't. Or couldn't. Like Katsumoto. 
General Yoshitaka speaks up. Graham translates: 
GRAHAM General Yoshitaka bids you to remember that the word samurai means "one who serves." Their whole existence is based on serving their country as warriors. 
Graham finishes translating, then continues on his own: 
The training continues. We see Gant, now sporting a black eye. Algren walks with General Yoshitaka and Graham. Graham translates: 
YOSHITAKA/ GRAHAM The General wishes to know if you bad a pleasant evening? 
Algren looks at Yoshitaka, who gives him. wry look.. 
ALGREN It was... educational (Yoshitaka nods) Would the General mind telling me more about our common enemy? 
Yoshitaka looks at him. Has Algren deliberately used the word, "enemy," knowing that Yoshitaka, too, is a samurai? Algren gives nothing awa y. 
YOSHITAKA/GRAHAM ... Mori Katsumoto is an extremely charismatic leader. To those who honor the old ways, he's a hero. His force is estimated at about five hundred and growing by the day. All samurai. 
ALGREN What kind of man is be? 
Graham translates. General Yoshitaka considers his words. 
YOSHITAKA/GRAHAM Katsumoto has no fear. He has no pity. He is kotsutai-- the soul of old Japan ... He is my honored kinsman. 
ALGREN Kinsman? 
YOSHITAKA/GRAHAM We grew up together in Yoshino. Marched together and fought together. He is Kaishaku the brother of my spirit. 
Algren considers this as they observe rifle practice. Erratic but improving. Algren notes Yoshitaka's reaction. The rifles seem to make him unhappy. 
ALGREN Ask him what kind of guns Katsumoto has. 
GRAHAM The samurai don't use guns. 
ALGREN No, ask him what kind of firearms they have. 
Graham obliges. Yoshitaka responds, with disdain: 
YOSHITAKA/GRAHAM The samurai no longer dishonor themselves by touching firearms. 
Algren is surprised at this bit of information. A servant approaches, bows. 
GRAHAM Colonel Bagley requires you. 
INT.               TENT              DAY 
Colonel Bagley and Algren stand at a map. Omura sits. 
ALGREN They're not a fighting unit yet 
BAGLEY We have no choice. (refers to the map) --the railroad has been stopped here. Just as it entered Yoshino, Katsumoto's province. 
OMURA Captain, we     cannot govern a country in which we cannot tr    avel freel y. ... Katsumoto's provocation     is strategic. His defeat will demonstrate     to the other disloyal samurai that resistance is   an act devoid of honor. 
BAGLEY The rebels don't have a single rifle. They're savages with bows and arrows. You get up there and show 'em how it', done. 
ALGREN With respect, sir, I need more time. 
OMURA With all due respect. this railroad cannot wait. 
He bows and leaves them alone. Bagley spins on A1gren. 
BAGLEY You think we're the only country interested in Japan?! You don't think the Germans and the French would like to oversee the new army? 
ALGREN Colonel-- 
BAGLEY (brutally) Why do you think we're here, Captain? Because Remington and Colt and Winchester have powerful allies in Washington. We're here to sell a shitload of American guns...and steel...and timber. That shouldn't be bud for a Winchester whore like you to understand. 
Algren looks at him, murderously. 
ALGREN Yes, air. 
EXT.                    RUINED VILLAGE                               DAY 
A STEAM ENGINE lends plumes of smoke into the air as it waits. Algren, Bagley, and General Yoshitaka ride along the railroad line. 
The Imperial Army follows, with Sergeant Gant, on foot. 
A traditional Japanese village is being torn aside to make room for the railroad line. Houses are being leveled and black smoke drifts up. The displaced villagers gather belongings. Omura guards herd them about rather bruta1ly. 
Railroad workers are laying a new spur, building a brick station. A1gren notes the by now familiar Omura symbol on the new water tower and on the headbands of the guards and workers. 
ALGREN What is that sign? 
GRAHAM It's the symbol for the Omura Zaibatsu. 
ALGREN Zaibatsu? 
GRAHAM Old family businesses that own ever ything worth owning. The molt powerful is the Omura Zaibatsu. That's your friend, Omura. 
ALGREN They own all of this? 
GRAHAM They do now. 
SEVERED HEADS on pikes line the road, a warning to those who continue to resist 
ALGREN (V.O.) October 24,1876. Today we entered Kansai province. Here the local warlords have all been convinced to accept the emperor's rule. 
They pass a particularly wrenching sight. Villagers kneeling outside what used to be a Shinto temple. The railroad tracks cut straight through it. 
ALGREN (V.O.) Our destination is Yoshino, home of the rebel Katsumoto. Protected by high mountain passes, it can be reached only during the summer months, and even then with great difficulty. 
The Army moves on. Ahead are towering mountains. 
EXT.                    MOUNTAIN PASS                          DAY 
The Imperial Army winds its way up I steep mountain pass. 
ALGREN (V.O.) A long march. And then a battle. A new enemy, but the same feeling I had in my guts at twenty-one, in the cornfield at Antietam -- men will die here, today, and will I be among them? 
Panic and chaos-- 
ALGREN Hold the line! 
Too late-- the samurai are on them-- 
They attack with an intensity few have ever seen -- many of the Japanese soldiers try to escape, turning and running in blind panic -- they are butchered-- run through by the ashigaru, cut inhalf by the naginata. 
Those soldiers who laboriousl y try to reload their rifles are quickly mowed down by ferocious clouds of samurai arrows, fired by mounted Samurai. 
ALGREN Sound fall back! Sound fall back! 
A bugler sounds the order. The Army begins to retreat. 
But suddenly they are attacked from behind as well! Arrows shoot from the fog and more mounted samurai appear. 
They are surrounded. 
Algren, Gant, and the Japanese Offi cers call out orders but all discipline soon breaks down -- it is every man for himself-- 
The battle swirls ever ywhere around us. Fleeing soldiers are run through by lances, run down and trampled by horses. 
Each samurai wears individual, vibrantly col ored armor. Various battle flags sweep through the fog. 
Gant uses his two cavalry revolvers -- firing constantly -- finally out of ammo he drops from his horse in the cavalry st yle and pulls a Winchester repeating rifle, crouching and quickly firing-- 
Algren uses his revol ver first -- firing as he turns on his horse -- when the revol ver is empty he pulls his cavalry saber. He manages to parry the lethal blows as the Samurai hurtle past -- 
But one Samurai, his armor all in black, comes at him on a collision course and SLAMS INTO HIM, sending both horse and rider to the ground. 
Algren scrambles to his feet, his saber nowhere to be found as another rider heads toward him carrying a lance. 
Algren manages to grab it and throw the rider to the ground, wrestling the lance from his grip and running him through. 
In the midst of the battle we notice a peculiar thing. One samurai is just sitting on his horse. Watching Algren. This samurai wears a BLACK MASK. 
The MASKED SAMUARI watches Algren fight. 
Algren now wields the lance to battle the horsemen as they sweep past. He spears one and then unseats another. When a third samurai cuts his lance in half, Algren uses the remaining half as a club to take him down. 
The Masked Samurai continues to watch Algren. Algren's tenacity is amazing. He continues to fight with heroic passion, refusing to give an inch, long after Those around him have fled. 
Then a blaze of bright yellow ­ a samurai in yellow armor galloping past, firing arrows steadily from horseback. His control and speed are astounding. 
We will come to know him as YORITOMO, a handsome young samurai. 
Yoritomo fires arrow upon arrow ­ the speed is breathtaking ­ Two arrows slam into Gant, knocking him to the ground. 
The battle, meanwhile, has become a rout. Those Imperial soldiers who fight are easily cut down. Those who flee are run down like prey. 
Left alone, Algren finds himself confronted by ashigaru ­ samurai foot soldiers carrying pikes. He turns to discover his retreat cut off by other 
samurai wielding katana ­ the lethal long sword. 
But rather than give any quarter, Algren launches an attack. He kills one samurai before he is RUN THROUGH, at the shoulder, by a lance. 
In agony, Algren SNAPS OFF the hilt of the lance, leaving its tip buried deep in his chest, and fights on. 
He manages to parry a blow ­ which SLICES into his side. The next blow takes off a piece of his scalp. Blood fl ows down his faces and into his eyes. 
Algren is now surrounded by ten samurai. A man's heroic stand against certain death is of great interest to them. As they begin to close in, Algren whirls the lance around, a tattered battle-flag with TIGER INSIGNIA still dangling from the end. 
The MASKED SAMURAI removes his mask. It is the JAPANESE MAN, whose dream of the tiger we glimpsed at the beginning of the story. His eyes wide in surprise, he watches his dream come to life--the blue tiger holding the dogs at bay. 
In SLOW MOTION Algren whirls the lance, as one samurai, wearing BLOOD-RED ARMOR, advances. With a murderous smile, he draws his katana. Algren seems spent ­ he drops to one knee, swaying, on the brink of losing consciousness. But as the RED SAMURAI, lets out a battle cry and propels himself forward for the death blow - Algren suddenly LEAPS UP and propels the jagged wooden end of the broken lance into the unprotected throat of his attacker. 
As the samurai falls, the rest of his comrades close in to cut Algren off. 
A harsh COMMAND stops them in their tracks. 
The Masked Samurai leaps from his horse. Everyone steps aside deferentially so that be might pass by without being jostled.                    . 
He looks down at Algren, then removes his battle helmet. 
And we meet _MORI KATSUMOTO, the leader of the samurai. He it an imposing man of about Algren's years. 
Sensing that he is about to be killed, Algren pulls himself t o his knees, and SWINGS his saber at Katsumoto. With blinding speed, Katsumoto pulls his katana from its scabbard. 
Algren's saber is SNAPPED CLEANLY IN TWO. 
Katsumoto looks down at Algren. 
Then Gant appears behind Katsumoto -- limping toward him, cocking his rifle, urgently trying to save Algren-- 
Ujio, (the Samurai we saw earlier on the streets of Tokyo) leaps to protect his Lord. His sword flashes-- 
Gant is eviscerated. Algren watches in horror. 
A dreadful beat as Gant stands, pathetically trying to hold his guts in. Then he sinks to his knees. 
Katsumoto turns, leaps back onto his horse and trots off. 
Algren finally wrenches himself from under his horse. He crawls to Gant, blood pouring from his own injured back and shoulder. 
Gant is dead. 
Algren looks up to see the battle is lost. The Japanese soldiers have fled. Or are surrendering, injured or dead. 
And he sees one other thing. General Yoshitaka is still on his horse, head down. He has not pulled his sword. He has not been hurt. 
Katsumoto rides to Yoshitaka. A few serious words are exchanged. Katsumoto bows his bead in respect, seems to agree to something. 
Both men climb from their horses. General Yoshitaka pulls out a small b1ade and hands it to Katsumoto, who holds it out firmly. 
YORITOMO Sake? 
ALGREN Sake. 
Yoritomo glances to the woman. She nods, and brings A1gren a saucer of sake. He drinks it down. Holds out the saucer for a refill 
Smiling, Yoritomo indicates for the woman to comply, but before she can pour another saucer, Algren takes the jug out of her other hand. Yoritomo laughs as Algren drinks it down. 
EXT.                       VILLAGE                               NIGHT 
Autumn leaves fall to the ground. In a tiny hut, the village swordsmith begins work on a samurai blade. 
INT.                   YORITOMO'S HOUSE                        NIGHT 
Algren writhes on his mat. Trapped in his recurrent nightmare. 
A sudden flash: 
The wagonload of the dead. Davey's bl oody corpse closes in on Algren suffocating him. 
Back in the house 
Yoritomo and the woman are asleep in separate rooms. 
A piercing SCREAM shatters the night 
EXT.                 VILLAGE                        FOLLOWING 
The screaming continues. Lamps are lit around the village... 
INT.                YORITOMO'S HOUSE                   FOLLOWING 
Yoritomo and the woman hurry to Algren's room -- 
Algren in the throes of his recurring nightmare - awakens, disoriented. 
ALGREN Sake. 
Yoritomo and the woman confer. Yoritomo looks It Algren and shakes his head, no. 
ALGREN SAKE! 
Yoritomo refuses -- Algren roars and tries to rise. Laughing at Algren's ferocit y in his weakened condition, Yoritomo easily pushes him back down. 
Algren folds in on himself, rocking like a feral animal. 
EXT.                  YORITOMO'S HOUSE                              NIGHT 
Katsumoto stands outside the house, drawn by the commotion. Ujio stands with him, shaking his bead. 
UJIO (subtitles) My lord, why do you spare the barbarian? He is shamed in defeat, be should kill himse1f. 
KATSUMOTO (subtitles) The barbarian doesn't know hit shame. 
UJIO (subtitles) Then I will kill him. 
KATSUMOTO (pats him; subtitles) Ujio-San, he will still be shamed tomorrow or in a month. For now there are things I wish to learn. 
EXT.                      VILLAGE                      DAY 
A glimpse of village life -- fish are hung on lines to dry, children chase each Other, clothes are washed in the river, and in the rice fields below, farmers squat as they have for thousands of years. In his hut, the swordsmith continues to hammer and fold the blade. 
INT.                YORITOMO'S HOUSE                       NIGHT 
Algren sits hunched in a dark corner. His body is convulsed with shivering. His withdrawal from alcohol, his wounds, his isolation and his imagined sins are devouring him.                                                                . 
Then we see he is not alone. The woman stands in the doorway, watching him closel y. Finally she enters with a bowl of soup. 
He glances up, something like panic in his eyes. 
She kneels and attempts to hand him the soup, but be knocks it out of the wa y and grabs her by the throat. 
ALGREN Sake! 
She stares at him, the breath being squeezed out of her, but there is not even a whisper of fear in her eyes. She is utterly impassive. Shaken, he lets her go, and crumples to the floor.                         . 
ALGREN (mumbling to himself) Sake... 
The woman leaves the soup and wa1ks away. 
INT.                    YORITOMO'S HOUSE                           DAYS LATER 
Daylight streams in, finding Algren lying on his back. The worst of the detox is past. As be lies there, these first moments of repose lead to: 
A sudden flash of memory: 
The beautiful blond WOMAN from the picture laughs merrily, and falls back languorousl y in a grassy fi eld. 
Back in the room 
Algren shakes off the memory as harsh SOUNDS from outside draw him to the window.                  . 
EXT.                    YORITOMO'S HOUSE                      MORNING 
Algren watches from the window as the samurai train. It is like nothing else in the world. Part sacred ritual, part martial preparation, samurai training com bines athletic prowess and graceful artistry into one effortless whole. 
Finally well enough to walk, Algren comes out onto the porch to watch the spectacle. In front of him, is a Kendo (The Way of the Sword) master practice with their long and short swords. They have incredible control. 
NAKAO, a mountain of a man, is a Karate master. He stands unarmed, four samurai facing him. They attack with wooden swords. He effortlessly defeats them -- the agility of the huge man is shocking. 
Kyudo ("The Way of the Bow") masters use their bows for target practice. Yoritomo holds a bundle of arrows. In the distance, a line of plums. 
Algren watches. Yoritomo just seems to stand there, his eyes hall-open. 
INT.              KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE                            NIGHT 
Katsumoto is arranging flowers. Algren watches in confusion, as this powerful lord goes about doing something so feminine and delicate. Finally: 
KATSUMOTO The parliament of your country has two houses. Why is that? 
ALGREN To keep either one from being too powerful. 
KATSUMOTO Does not a people need a powerful ruler to protect them? 
ALGREN We believe the opposite. 
Katsumoto thinks about this. 
ALGREN I have a question. How do you come to speak English? 
KATSUMOTO Members of the Council were required to study ............              it. ........Yes, I was a member of the government. I helped restore the Emperor to the throne. 
ALGREN So that Japan could have a powerful ruler to protect it. 
Katsumoto understands Algren's irony, but doesn't smile. 
ALGREN And now you must hate him for what he's done. 
KATSUMOTO He is my blood. I serve him with my life. 
ALGREN By fighting his army? 
Katsumoto looks at A1gren. 
KATSUMOTO I do not fight the emperor. I fight those who seek to influence him, those who betray the soul of my country. 
He slowl y draws his long samurai sword, and places it next to the flowers on the table in front of him. 
KA TSUMOTO The Emperor gave this blade to my ancestors 400 years ago. It has been used only to defend his sacred honor. 
Katsumoto hands the sword to Algren. Algren studies it. 
KATSMUOTO It takes many years to make a sword. It is a holy Act. A samurai's sword is his soul. 
ALGREN This sword is flawed. What is this uneven line near the edge? 
Katsumoto smiles at Algren's ignorance. 
KATSUMOTO One man is flexible and compromises too much to avoid conflict. Another man is so fierce he wins ever y battle, but so rigid he can never know peace. A man who knows both is the perfect warrior. The lame is true of a blade .. one steel bends, and the other cuts. And where they meet is never perfect Hold the blade up. . 
Algren holds the sword, cutting edge up. Katsumoto takes a silk cloth and drops it. It gently billows down -- and splits evenly on the edge. 
KATSUMOTO Some believe a blade is thirsty until it tastes the blood of its enemy. 
Algren hands the sword back. Suddenly, Katsumoto swings the sword, cleanly splitting the table in two. Silence. 
ALGREN The crew at Winchester can produce one rifle ever y seven minutes. 
KA TSUMOTO We gave up firearms two hundred years ago. It takes no courage to kill. A man from half a mile awa y. You must look into the eyes of your enemy to know who you have killed. 
ALGREN I'm not sure an artillery officer would agree. 
KATSUMOTO Do you? 
ALGREN I think all killing's a filthy business. 
KATSUMO TO Taking a man's life is nothing. It is his honor you can never take awa y. 
ALGREN In other words you have no respect for human life. 
KA TSUMOTO (fierce) . What do you know of human life? You come here to kill for money Where is your family? Where is your wife, your sons? What is your legacy? 
ALGREN (undaunted) And what is yours? To rebel against the future? I fought the South in our civil war. Their leaders believed they were fighting for "honor" just as you do. And their people died by the thousands! 
Katsumoto simply looks at him. 
ALGREN And my wife is dead. 
KATSUMOTO Mine, too. 
They look at each other. Some unexpected recognition has taken place. 
KATSUMOTO Tomorrow we will discuss your country's wish for dominance in the..."Far East." 
ALGREN ...I look forward to it. 
Algren turns to go. 
EXT.VILLAGE SQUARE DAY 
We see the village swordsmith at work. He has been forging the same long samurai blade for months... Algren watches him as he works. 
ALGREN (V.O.) March 9. 1877. I have never known such a disciplined people. 
EXT. VILLAGE DAY 
Algren trains with the other men. He attempts an attack, which is easily brushed aside by Nakao. Algren ends up in the dirt again. 
ALGREN (V.O.) From the moment they wake, they devote themselves to the perfection of whatever they pursue-- 
EXT. VILLAGEDAY 
Algren walking with Katsumoto -- they are deep in conversation. 
ALGREN (V.O.) And yet the more time I spend here, the less I understand them. 
EXT.               VILLAGE                      DAY Two women are bowing repeatedly, chattering in smiling, earnest argument. 
KA TSUMOTO The wa y you look at the cherry blossoms. 
ALGREN (reluctantly) We lived in a place called Connecticut. My...brother and I climbed the maple trees. 
KA TSUMOTO Were they beautiful? 
ALGREN Yes. 
KATSUMOTO And you were sad to see them die in the winter. 
A beat. Something flickers in Algren's eyes. 
KATSUMOTO You were something before you were a soldier. You were a boy who was sad to see the leaves fall and the trees die. 
Katsumoto looks at him deepl y. 
KA TSUMOTO Like those trees, we are all dying. The future is an illusion, our plans are an illusion, our fears an illusion. We live life in every breath. Eat, drink, fuck. Now. Every cup of tea. Every word we write... Every blossom we hold. 
He smiles sadly. 
KA TSUMOTO Every life we take. 
A beat. He stands, takes in the beautiful cherry orchard. 
KATSUMOTO Life in every breath. That is bushido. The wa y of the samurai. 
He goes. Algren stands for a moment deep in thought 
INT.                      YORITOMO'S HOUSE                               NIGHT 
Algren is asleep. And then we note that the ground is vibrating .. he slides across his mat .- wakes with a start 
An unholy rumbling- 
Algren bolts up ... just as a paper wall rips open, the wooden framework to the room splits and the roof collapses-- 
An earthquake. Common for this part of Japan. 
EXT.                     VILLAGE                            NIGHT 
Yoritomo appears. He and Algren crawl out of the house just as the ground lurches violently- 
Part of the house contorts and caves in 
Around the village, the wooden frame houses are swa ying and lurching they have some torque, but not enough 
Ujio directs the villagers as they battle a fire- 
Taka appears, calling frantically for Toshiie. 
Then an even larger seismic tremor suddenly TEARS THROUGH THE VILLAGE 
Houses are ripped apart -- the whole world shifting. 
Though the smoke, Algren sees Toshiie cowering under an eave 
A heavy ceiling beam breaks loose, threatens to crush Toshiie 
Algren dives forward, grabs Toshiie and pulls him out of the wa y... the front of the house collapses, the beams smashing to the ground.. 
Taka and Higen race to Algren and Toshiie. The boy is safe. 
Taka grabs the child and cradles him. Her look to Algren is fierce, protective, almost feral -- as if he were the threat instead of the rescuer. 
EXT.                       VILLAGE                               DAY 
Algren watches the villagers rebuild. Yoritomo and Higen strugg1e with a large wooden framework. 
ALGREN (V.O.) I am str    uck by these people and their acceptance of Fate in a1l it   s variations. At a time like this, they seem utterly without      sentiment. Even the children have a gravity beyond      their years. 
Algren goes to them. Silently begins to help them. 
INT.                 YORITOMO'S HOUSE                                    DAYS LATER 
Algren works with Yoritomo, binding the wooden framework. Higen prepares the paper walls nearby. He does this with considerable skill. 
Taka is getting water from a rain barrel she observes Algren helping rebuild her home. Yoritomo is working nearby. Algren's Japanese is rough but improving: 
ALGREN (in Japanese, subtitles) Would last longer ... if stone. 
YORITOMO (subtitles) No. House fall. House go back easy with wood. 
Algren shakes his head. Taka appears with cups of water. Algren looks at her For the first rime, she holds his gaze. 
EXT.                  YORITOMO'S HOUSE                               EVENING 
Torches illuminate a small stage in the center of the village square. Several samurai perform a ritualistic Noh drama. (A form which, by the wa y, the samurai invented.) Others play flutes and large steel drums. 
ALGREN (V.O.) And yet I have never seen a people with more capacity for the joy found in the simplest things of life. 
Katsumoto himself plays the lead role. An enthusiastic actor, he plays to the children in the audience. They are delighted with his broad theatrics. 
INT. YORITOMO'S HOUSE 
Taka is carrying in a huge lack of rice. Algren goes to help her. 
TAKA (subtitles) No, please. 
ALGREN (insistent) Hai. He carries the rice for her into the pantry area. 
TAKA (subtitles) Japanese men do not help with this. 
ALGREN (subtitles) I know. 
Toshiie bows. Algren bows and tucks the scroll into his coat. 
Algren and Yoritomo move out with Katsumoto, Ujio, Nakao and his bodyguard of several dozen Samurai. 
The villagers bow and honor the warrior as they pass. 
EXT.                    MOUNTAINOUS LANDSCAPE                             DAY 
Algren trots alongside Katsumoto. 
ALGREN ... The Emperor sends a message for you to return to Tokyo, and you go? 
KATSUMOTO Yes. 
ALGREN Even though you're in rebellion against him. 
KATSUMOTO Against the Emperor? Never. I serve him. As I have alwa ys done.    . 
ALGREN I don't understand. 
KATSUMOTO Our Emperor is young, and there are things I must sa y to him. 
ALGREN But ever yone around him wants you dead. 
KA TSUMOTO And if the Emperor desires, I will take my own life at his command. 
He spurs his horse and rides on. A1gren watches him. 
EXT.         MOUNTAIN VALLEY                               SUNSET 
They approach a large inn. 
A boy working in the fields see Katsumoto approaching. He doesn't believe it -- the Great Katsumoto. He drops his hoe and races awa y, calling out. 
KATSUMOTO We will stop here for the night. 
EXT.                      MOUNTAIN VALLEY                              SUNSET 
Samurai guards have been posted around the perimeter. 
INT.         KATSUMOTO'S RQOM                              NIGHT 
Algren is escorted in. Katsumoto kneels at a table. Preparing the traditional Japanese tea ceremony. 
KATSUMOTO Sit, Captain. 
Algren sits. By now he has learned how to sit on the ground. Katsumoto begins the exacting, delicate and precise tea ceremony. 
KATSUMOTO Do you drink tea? 
ALGREN I've had little else for some time... 
Katsumoto continues with the tea ceremony. 
ALGREN How's your poem coming? 
KATSUMOTO I am having trouble. The truth is I am not a very good poet. (Algren smiles) Do you know wh y you were sent here? To Yoshino. 
ALGREN To protect the railroad. 
.                              KATSUMOTO Why is the railroad here? 
ALGREN So Tokyo can control the whole country. 
KATSUMOTO You have seen my province. All mountains. Far from Tokyo. Yet the rail line must come here? 
Katsumoto tosses a tiny bit of coal on the simmering brazier on the table. Algren watches carefully. 
ALGREN You have something they want 
KATSUMOTO What do they want in my mountains? 
ALGREN Minerals ... Gold. 
KA TSUMOTO (smiles) There is no gold in Japan. 
Katsumoto gently blows on the coal brazier. The coal flares a bit. 
ALGREN Coal? (Katsumoto looks at him) For steamships. 
KA TSUMOTO And why would steamships be so important? 
ALGREN ...China. 
Katsumoto looks up at him. Impressed. 
KATSUMOTO Japan has nothing. China has ever ything. 
ALGREN Mine the coal to create a way station for the trip to China ... Freeze the Europeans out and Japan and America have a monopol y on the China trade. 
KATSUMOTO Add to this the Omura Zaibatsu. You know the Zaibatus? 
ALGREN The wealthy families. 
KATSUMOTO As patron of the railroad, Omura owns all land within four hundred feet of ever y new rail line. As my country grows, so will his wealth. (looks at him) This is why you are fighting. 
Katsumoto completes the tea ceremony. He pours a cup for Algren. Bows his head and offers it to him. 
ALGREN And you will tell the emperor to stop them? 
KATSUMOTO I do not tell the emperor what to do. 
ALGREN Then what do you hope to accomplish? 
For when the Ninjas come, they come all at once-- 
A Ninja suddenly comes TEARING STRAIGHT THROUGH THE PAPER WALL, his sword slashing down .- just missing Katsumoto. 
Katsumoto calls out an alarm, diving and rolling across the floor for his sword. He instantly kills one Ninja using his steel-tipped "war fan" to slash his attackers throat. Another smashes in through the window. 
INT.                  INN -- MAIN H ALL                      NIGHT 
Ninjas EXPLODE into the main hall. Samurai who come out of their rooms are cut down by a variety of weapons -- one takes a throwing star in the face, others are felled by the traditional ninja-to, short swords ideal for fighting in confined spaces, chain-knives, nun-chaka and others. 
More Ninjas drop from the rafters on ropes. 
INT.                          INN -- ALGREN'S ROOM                              NIGHT 
A Ninja SMASHES through the paper wall -- Algren grabs the nearest object, a low tea table. and swings it at his head. The Ninja dodges the blow and slices at Algren with short-sword. 
Algren barely avoids the blow by ducking behind a post as the sword LODGES deep in the wood. Algren flings himself, bodily, at his attacker. 
INT.                      INN-- MAIN HALL                           NIGHT 
Ninja throwing stars spin across the room, killing a samurai. 
Yoritomo emerges from his room, readying his bow, but the dead samurai falls back blocking his wa y. From behind the rice wall, Yoritomo lets fly an arrow without even looking. 
It passes THROUGH the wall, killing the Ninja on the opposite balcony. 
INT.                         INN-- FIRST FLOOR                    NIGHT 
Ujio screams a war cry and begins to battle his way up the stairs. With breathtaking moves, he slashes hands and limbs, forcing the Ninja back. 
Nakao fights his wa y up beside him, desperately trying to reach Katsumoto's room. Using only his bare hands he catches a Ninja's wrist and hurls him over the railing. 
INT.                         INN -- ALGREN'S ROOM                      NIGHT 
Algren and the Ninja are in a death struggle, kneeing, gouging, butting. They awkwardly smash through a paper wall into the next room. 
INT.                     INN -- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                      NIGHT 
Katsumoto wields his long sword in one hand and his short sword in the other. It is the first time we have seen him in action and his movements are both beautiful and deadly. 
But more Ninjas are pouring in through the window, threatening to overwhelm him. 
INT.                            INN -- ALGREN'S ROOM                    NIGHT 
Rolling on the ground, Algren manages to grab a chopstick and STAB his adversary through the eye. He picks up the fallen short sword and steps out into the hall. 
ARROWS whiz past, thudding into the wall beside his head. 
INT.                     INN-- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                          NIGHT 
Katsumoto, breathing heavily, his kimono shredded and bloody, is fending off the Ninjas' increasingly savage attacks as Algren enters. 
Algren SCREAMS, distracting them just long enough for Katsumoto to take advantage and kill one. 
Then, just as a Ninja it about to kill Algren, Katsumoto FLINGS his short sword ... it pin-wheels across the room, hitting Algren's attacker in the chest. 
Without missing a beat, Algren pulls the short sword from the dying Ninja's chest and uses it to stab another Ninja who, thinking Algren defenseless, has launched an attack. 
INT.                         INN -- MAIN HALL                       NIGHT 
Ujio and Nakao are back to back, a perfect fighting machine as they fight their wa y to Katsumoto's rescue. They battle Ninjas wielding lethal kusarigamas, the Ninjas swing chains, the attached blades slice the air--Nakao catches the chains and flinging the Ninja over the balcony. 
INT.               YORITOMO'S ROOM                           NIGHT 
Yoritomo is pinned down. Darts and throwing stars shred the rice paper wall above him. He picks off another Ninja before changing his position. 
INT.                   INN-- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                          NIGHT 
The blazing sword battle continues. 
Algren throws a beautiful painted standing-screen in front of an attacking Ninja, momentarily confusing him. Then he stabs THROUGH THE SCREEN -as a blood- stain SPREADS across the pastoral painting. 
But another Ninja catches Algren off-guard and slices at him with his short sword. As Algren lifts his sword to parry the blow, HIS LITILE FINGER IS CHOPPED OFF. 
He drops the sword, momentarily defenseless. 
Across the hallway 
Yoritomo has been watching the shadowpla y on the rice-paper walls. Algren's attacker raises his blade to deliver the death blow. 
In Katsumoto's room 
Algren flinches involuntarily beneath the raised blade. Suddenly the Ninja JACKKNIFES as if punched by an unseen hand. As he spins, dead, to the ground, we SEE an ARROW lodged bet ween his shoulder blades. Yoritomo has FIRED blindly, through the wall ­ killing Algren's attacker. 
Nearby, a Ninja hurls a throwing star at Katsumoto. With blind instinct Katsumoto turns and takes the blade in the meat of his arm. 
Algren, meanwhile, has ripped the sleeve of his kimono into a tourniquet for his maimed hand. He uses the rest of the fabric TO TIE HIS HAND TO HIS SWORD before launching himself back into the fray -- slicing an attacker just as he is about to impale Katsumoto. 
Together, he and Katsumoto force the last two Ninjas through a paper wall to the next room. They fight all the wa y through that room and BLAST through another paper wall to the next. 
INT.                  INN ­ STAIRWAY                           NIGHT 
The battle continues unabated on the stairs -- the Ninjas spring for position with incredible grace --perching and fighting on banisters, leaping from one level to the next. 
It is a mayhem of flashing swords and flailing limbs and flyi ng arrows and spinning Ninja stars. 
Sprays of blood splatter against the white rice paper walls. 
Some of the fighting is less than elegant. Men bite and wrestle and gouge to survive in close quarters. 
All of them arc bloody and sweat y and dirty and tired, heaving for breath, their skin flayed open, their kimonos ripped, their hands and arms and faces blood-stained. 
But more samurai reinforcements follow Ujio up the stairs: Together with Yoritomo and Nakao, they have begun to gain the upper hand. 
OMURA 
(subtitles) Enlightened One, perhaps I can be of service in a conversation of state. 
EMPEROR (subtitles) So kind of you, but I fear my old teacher wishes to upbraid me in private for neglecting my studies. 
Omura bows his head quickly and goes. 
Silence. The Emperor gazes at Katsumoto. Then: 
EMPEROR (subtitles) You rise against me, my teacher. 
KATSUMOTO (subtitles) No, Highness, I rise against your enemies. 
EMPEROR (subtitles) They are my teacher, my advisers, like you. 
KATSUMOTO (subtitles) They advise in their own interest. 
EMPEROR (subtitles) The world is changing, Mori -- you have not seen what goes on beyond our borders, the inventions, the science. I need men who can look outward, or soon we will be left behind, and defenseless. 
KATSUM OTO (subtitles) I am sworn to defend you even to my last breath. 
EMPEROR (subtit1es) The samurai live in the past. You cannot defend against a future you don't understand. 
KATSUMOTO (subtitles) If I am no use, then I will happily end my life, 
EMPEROR (subtitles) No, Mori. It is my wish that you rejoin the Council of State. I need your voice. 
KATSUMOTO (subtitles) It is your voice that needs to be heard, Highness. You are a living God, you can do what ever you think is right. 
The young emperor is silent a moment. 
EMPEROR (subtitles) I am a living God only as long as I do what they think is right. 
KATSUMOTO (subtitle) Your Highness, may I beg forgiveness for saying what a teacher must, that such a statement is pathetic drivel not worthy of an ignorant stable boy, let alone a young man I know to have some modest intelligence. 
The emperor laughs warmly, almost happy to be scolded as he once was. 
EMPEROR (subtitles) Is it possible a living God can be too afraid to make his voice heard? (Katsumoto's look is not unkind) Tell me what to do, Mori-San? 
KATSUMOTO (subtitles) You are emperor, my Lord, not me. You must find the wisdom for all of us. 
EXT.                YOKOHAMA WHARF                             DAY 
A series of warehouses, beyond which we see warships in the harbor. A1gren walks with Bagley and two other OFFICERS. 
INT.                      WAREHOUSE                            DAY 
The cavernous warehouse piled high with huge crates. 
BAGLEY As soon as they sign the agreement, they're obligated to buy the entire weapons package, from Colt revol vers to Ha1liwell twelve-pounders. Plus this particular item you might recognize. 
A few stevedores tear open one of the crates. Algren hides his astonishment: A Gatling Gun is revealed. 
BAGLEY They've been calibrated to fire 200 rounds a minute, The new copper cartridges cut down on jamming. 
Algren closes his eyes, trying to keep his memories at bay. 
EXT.                           TOKYO STREETS                          DAY 
Algren fights the crowds with Colonel Bagley And Ambassador Swanbeck.. 
ALGREN (V.O.) May 15, 1877. The city I return to is immeasurabl y changed 
New construction ever ywhere. Telegraph wires strung next to an ancient temple. A modern European hotel is going up, dwarfing the traditional Japanese buildings. Huge billboards advertising Western goods. A new invention, the rickshaw, has replaced many of the palanquins. 
ALGREN (V.O.) As though Tokyo were determined to become another New York or Chicago .- all in one headlong rush. 
Spider's web of telegraph cables spread from a tall new brick building. It is like a New York office building stabbing into the heart of old Japan. 
The familiar Omura character is emblazoned on the side. 
.INT.             OFFICES OF THE OMURA ZAIBATSU                                        DAY 
Aside from the occasional bit of Japanese decor, this could be a buzzing Wall Street firm. 
Telegraph operators click away. Accountants use adding machines. Secretaries use pneumatic tubes to send documents back and forth. Engineers plot out railway lines. All are dressed in Western clothes. 
Algren, Colonel Bagley, and Ambassador Swanbeck enter. 
AMBASSADOR SWANBECK (to Algren) If he asks, you can talk about ordnance and tactics. But remember, this has to do with a lot more than just weapons. 
An anteroom holds waiting delegations from the various European powers. A babel of language. ... French ...Dutch ...Russian ...German. 
A pretty American secretary looks up from her desk. 
SECRETARY Ambassador Swanbeck, if you'll follow me. 
Some of the delegates arc craning forward, watching Algren and the others hungrily as they head into the final office. 
INT.             OMURA'S OFFICE                            DAY 
Omura stands like an industrial titan before large picture windows offering a dramatic view of Tokyo. The only decoration in the room is an enormous Caravaggio. 
OMURA Please, sit down, gentlemen. 
Omura removes a gold cigarette case and lights up. Cigarettes are the newest Western fad Sweeping Japan. 
OMURA (re: cigarette case) A gift from Czar Alexander... Captain Algren,. it seems you have endured your captivity with little ill-effect. 
ALGREN Yes, sir. 
OMURA He's an extraordinary man, isn't he? 
Three GUARDS round a corner. Swords flash as Ujio and Nakao dispatch them without even slowing. They race on, Graham laboring to keep up. 
INT.                    CASTLE KEEP                     NIGHT 
Algren rounds a corner-- 
Ujio, Yoritomo, Nakao, and Graham are moving toward him. 
ALGREN This wa y... 
Clearly, this has all been Algren's plan. They move up a stairwa y. 
INT.                CASTLE KEEP (SECOND FLOOR)                           NIGHT 
The three guards are still standing at attention outside Katsumoto's cell. His swords are next to them. 
Algren keeps the others out of sight and lowers his head to whisper with Ujio. Ujio nods, then walks into sight and calmly approaches the guards. 
Still hidden, Algren gestures for the others remain to silent. After a moment, he gestures that they can proceed. 
Algren and the others round the comer to discover the bloody remains of the three guards - whom Ujio has dispatched in absolute silence. They unlock the cell. 
INT.                   CASTLE ­ CELL                         FOLLOWING 
Katsumoto is shocked to see Algren enter. Algren tosses him his swords. 
ALGREN How's the poem coming? 
KATSUMOTO The ending is proving difficult. 
INT.                      CASTLE -- RECEPTION CHAMBER                     NIGHT 
Omura glances up from the documents. 
OMURA What has become of Captain Algren? 
INT.                       CASTLE ­ CORRIDOR                          NIGHT 
Algren, Katsumoto, and the others race through an upper corridor. 
KATSUMOTO (re:Graham) Who is this? 
ALGREN Name's Simon Graham. Wants to write a book about you. 
GRAHAM An honor. I have followed your activities with great interest. I think the European public would be fascinated by a book about your adventures. 
KATSUMOTO Not a book. A play! 
Suddenly, from below, the raised voices of guards. They hurry a wa y. 
INT.               CASTLE ­ STAIRS                     NIGHT 
Guards carrying pikes race up the stairs-- 
INT.                CASTLE ­ CORRIDOR                  NIGHT 
Algren and the others are moving swiftl y down a stone corridor. 
The sound of the approaching guards is growing louder. 
A silent WILD BUNCH moment of preparation as they stride down the corridor, five abreast. 
Algren pulls the cavalry saber from his dress uniform. Katsumoto prepares his swords. Nakao stretches his huge arms. Yoritomo and Uji o draw their bows. 
EXT.                   CASTLE - UPPER COURTYARD                        FOLLOWING 
Ten guards with rifles patrol the upper battlements. 
Yoritomo and Uji o crouch and fire. Arrow a fter arrow a fter arrow, as fast as a repeating rifle, the arrows streak through the night. Completely silent. 
It is a dazzling display. They time shots to sail over walls, shoot through tiny windows, shoot out torches. Multiple arrows. Perfect aim. 
In a matter of seconds all ten guards are dead. 
They continue across the courtyard, up some steps -- 
INT.             CASTLE--TIGHT CORRIDOR                         FOLLOWING 
They stride through a tight, dark stone corridor. 
Suddenly, a cadre of Omura guards emerge from the shadows. 
Without hesitation, they launch into battle. Algren and Katsumoto wield their swords. Yoritomo and Ujio fire arrows. 
Nakao fights with his hands, dramatic martial arts from the huge man. 
But this corridor is just too tight -- it is a sea of combat.. the guards and our warriors are slammed together --the swords and pikes sending up sparks in the darkness as they strike the stone walls. 
The right corridor echoes with samurai war cries and clanging swords. 
Then... 
More guards appear. 
These guards have rifles. 
Rifle blasts thunder --startling strobe-like bursts of light in the darkness -- 
Algren dives in front of Katsumoto to protect him- 
Yoritomo is hit- 
He jerks back -- blood-- 
AMBASSADOR SWANBECK What do you mean? 
OMURA Katsumoto will rejoin his kinsmen. They will fight. We will destroy them with your new weapons. 
BAGLEY What if he just goes off to the mountains and becomes a damn sheep-herder or some such? 
OMURA You still do not understand us ... Katsumoto can do nothing but fight. It is his role in the drama. He must act out his destiny. He knows it. 
AMBASSADOR SWANBECK You trust a lot in destiny. 
OMURA This story was written years ago. From the first sight of your warships in our harbor... (stares out the window) It is a1l inevitable. 
EXT.             HILLS                           SUNSET 
Algren, Katsumoto, and the others ride over rocky ground. 
ALGREN (V.O.) June 1, 1877. Yesterday, I passed the field where Zebulon Gant was killed by the man with whom I now ride. In the distance a steam train chugs along. Inevitable. Progress. 
EXT.                 FOREST ­ MOUNTAINS                     DAY 
They climb a steep trail. Beyond, the glaciers glow pink. 
ALGREN (V.O.) I am beset by ironies -- trained to fight rebels now I am one. And yet 1 ask mysel f... can a man be reborn?: 
Algren, Katsumoto, and the others ride through a dense forest Katsumoto reins his horse. The others follow suit. They wait 
ALGREN (V.O.) And if so, what would he make of it? 
Mounted samurai emerge from the thick forest As it they were invisible. 
The leader leaps from his horse and bows, touching his head to the dirt. All the other samurai follow suit. 
EXT.    CHERRY TREE FOREST--NEAR THE VILLAGE                       EVENING 
Katsumoto rides at the head of his samurai as they pass through the cherry orchard. Then he reins his horse and falls in beside Algren. 
KATSUMOTO (his voice troubled) I was prepared to die in Omura's castle. And yet here I am. I cannot help but ask why were you sent into my life. What is the lesson you were meant to give me? 
ALGREN Maybe that neither of us is as smart as we thought... 
Katsumoto laugh. And then in a surprisingly deft imitation of Algren 
KATSUMOTO You...ain't whistlin' Dixie... 
He spurs his horse and heads off. Algren shakes his head and follows. 
EXT.               VILLAGE                     EVENING 
The returning warriors are warmly welcomed by the villagers. 
Algren rides directly to Yoritomo's house, dismounts. 
Taka and Toshiie are waiting. 
He goes to them. His expression tells them all they need to know. 
INT.          YORITOMO'S HOUSE                           NIGHT 
Algren sits with the family. The boys sit next to their mother. 
ALGREN (subtitles) ... he gave his life to save us. He died bravel y. 
TAKA (subtitles) Thank you, Algren-San. 
HIGEN (subtitles) Will you fight the white men? 
ALGREN (subtitles) If they come here, yes. 
HIGEN (subtitles) Why? 
ALGREN (subtitles) Because they come to destroy what I have come to love. 
Taka looks at him, moved and surprised. Suddenly, Higen jumps up and bolts... out of the room. Algren looks to Taka. 
TAKA (subtitles) The wa y of Samurai is difficult for children. He misses his father. 
ALGREN And he is angry because I am the cause of that. 
She smiles ever so slightly at his obliviousness. 
TAKA No. He it angry because he fears you will die as well. 
EXT.             VILLAGE                    NIGHT 
Higen stands, looking up at the stars. 
ALGREN Higen. 
HIGEN (subtitles) My father taught me it is glorious to die in battle. 
ALGREN (subtitles) That is what he believed. 
HIGEN (subtitles) I would be afraid to die in battle. 
ALGREN (subtitles) So would I. 
HIGEN (subtitles) But you have been in many battles. 
ALGREN (subtitles) And I was always afraid. 
Higen looks at him, tears welling in his eyes. 
HIGEN (subtitles) I don't want you to go. 
EXT.            VILLAGE                      LATER THAT NIGHT 
A somber mood has descended. Algren sits and writes in his journal. 
ALGREN (V.O.) July 14, 1877. For so long now, I have managed to convince myself that there was nothing worth believing in. 
A samurai plays a melancholy bamboo flute. The gentle sound floats through the village... 
ALGREN (V.O.) Certainly nothing worth dying for. 
We see samurai preparing for the final battle. Some check their armor... Others meditate... 
ALGREN (V.O.) Now I am not so sure. 
Some make up their faces so they will look handsome when they greet death. Some methodically polish their swords. Some sit with their families. 
ALGREN (V.O.) And so, for the first time in my life, I am truly afraid. Not of dying. But of losing something worth living for. 
Ujio is performing a graceful, ritualistic sword-dance to the song of the flute. Algren Joins Graham to watch him. 
GRAHAM What is it:? . 
ALGREN The kenbu,.. his dance of death. 
Taka comes to them. 
TAKA (subtitles) Algren-san, will you come with me? 
Algren leaves Graham and accompanies Taka toward the house. 
They pass Higen and Toshiie, who sit with other children at the feet of the massive Nakao, listening to a quiet story he tells, 
INT.                   YORITOMO'S HOUSE                     FOLLOWING 
The gentle flute music from outside drifts in. 
One of Yoritomo's beautiful kimonos is elegantly spread on a mat. 
TAKA (subtitles) If you wear this, it will honor us. 
He nods. 
She steps to him. 
A moment. She gently reaches forward and unbuttons his collar. 
A tender, silent scene as she undresses him and carefully wraps him in the kimono. Her hands move gracefull y around his body, never quite touching him. His movements are gentle in response. 
When he is fully dressed, then are tears in his eyes. 
Suddenly, fiercely, they are holding each other. 
EXT.             KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE -- PORCH                  LATER THAT NIGHT The quiet evening continues. 
Algren, now dressed in the kimono, finds Katsumoto carefully dropping little leaves of incense into a small flame that simmers inside his battle helmet. 
KATSUMOTO So m y hair will have a pleasing scent when I meet my ancestors ... (dry) ... You do not do this ? 
Algren smiles, sits. ALGREN I studied war at a place called West Point. They taught us about a battle called Thermopylae. Three hundred brave warriors held off the king of Persia's army of a million men. For two da ys they made them pay so dearly that the king lost all appetite for further invasion (looks at him) ... I have some thoughts about the battle tomorrow. 
KATSUMOTO (bemused) Do you really think we can defeat them? 
ALGREN I sure as hell want to find out. 
KATSUMOTO You believe a man can change his destiny? 
ALGREN No ... But I think a man cannot know his destiny. He can only do what he can, until his destiny is revealed. 
A si1ent beat. 
Then Katsumoto picks up a long bundle wrapped in cloth. He unwraps it. A beautilu1 long samurai sword. 
He bows his head and offers it to Algren. 
There are Japanese characters etched on the blade. 
ALGREN What does it say? 
KATSUMOTO "I belong to the warrior in whom the old ways have joined the new." 
Algren is moved beyond words. He bows. 
As the CAMERA pulls away, Algren and Katsumoto squat side by side, drawing in the dirt with a stick, planning the next day's battle strategy. 
Across the square, Ujio continues his elegant dance of death, his graceful form illuminated in silhouette by a fire. 
INT.          YORITOMO'S HOUSE                   MORNING 
It is the day of the battle. Algren is buttoning the long coat of his cavalry uniform. 
He looks up to see Higen standing in the doorwa y, holding the breast-plate of his father's armor. 
EXT.             YORITOMO'S HOUSE                 DAY 
Algren emerges from the house, wearing the breast-plate over his coat. Taka is at his horse, tying a bag of food to the saddle. She turns and sees her husband's armor on this man. And her breath stops. 
Algren approaches her. They stand very cl ose. 
TAKA (subtitles) Return. 
ALGREN (subtitles) If that is my destiny ... Anshinritsumai. [I wish you peace.] 
TAKA Anshinritsumai. 
Colonel Bagley, Omura, several German advisers and Japanese Officers watch through binoculars. Stunned. As the First Wave is routed. 
HAGLEY What the hell? 
OMURA It seems Katsumoto will resist his destiny. (snaps an order) Send in the second wave. Two divisions. 
EXT.                  BARRICADES                          DAY 
Algren and Katsumoto wait behind the second barricade. We note that this barricade is the real thing. 
Katsumoto removes a piece of shattered armor from his left forearm, a bullet wound beneath. Algren looks over the barricade. 
They see Imperial soldiers using semaphore flags to communicate with their commanders on the opposing hilltop. 
KATSUMOTO How long? 
ALGREN They need to regroup and report our position. Then they'll come hard. 
Katsumoto considers the bodies of the dead Imperia1soldiers. 
KA TSUMOTO It is sad to see brave men die without faces... You cannot tell one warrior from another. 
ALGREN They're not warriors. They're soldiers. It's a modern army. 
KATSUMOTO Not my world anymore. 
EXT.            BATTLE FIELD                   DAY 
Bugles. The attack is reforming. Ranks now bolstered by reinforcements. 
They come at a trot, through the narrow defile, skirting the first barricade, continuing at a trot toward the second barricade. 
EXT.              2ND BARRICADE                      DAY 
Katsumoto pulls his long sword. Algren does the same. 
Katsumoto calls out an order -- the archers fire another round. 
The Imperial soldiers are being annihilated but still they come in great waves -- for ever y one who falls it seems there are ten to take his place. 
They race forward, stepping over their fallen comrades, bayonets poised -- 
The Mauser rifles flash -- 
Bullets explode around the samurai, many are hit. 
The Imperial Army has been trained to keep firing on the run. The waiting Samurai will be decimated, except -- 
From the hills on either side 
Fully half of the Samurai force -- who have been kept hidden until this moment... charge, screaming into the flank of the attacking Army. Even rifles cannot fire in three directions at once. 
Algren and Katsumoto lead the charge over the second barricade. Some are cut down, but in moments swords engage ba yonets in brutal hand-to-band combat. 
Algren And Katsumoto fight back to back, as if one person, slashing with their swords, shattering bayonet, dealing death on all sides. 
Ujio crouches, his back leg straight and planted, his front leg bent. Still using his bow, firing off arrows with Stunning speed, refusing to budge-- 
On the opposing hillside 
Bagley and Omura watch the battle through binoculars. 
BAGLEY A classic "V" ambush. Sonofabitcb is using Welt Point tactics. 
In the midst of the battle 
A charging soldier thrust     s his bayonet into Katsumoto's arm - Katsumoto kills, the soldier with his short    sword but is awkwardly tangled with his body, a second soldier races toward him      for the kill - Algren spins and attacks killing the second soldier - but a third races    toward Algren, bayonet f1ashing 
He dodges -- but the bayonet slices into his side -- 
Algren kicks the soldier away -- tries to use his sword but the soldier springs back ath1etically .. Ujio appears like a black spectral figure to deliver the coup de grace. 
All SOUND gradually fades and is replaced by the elegaic sound of a bamboo flute... the images of combat become fragmented and impressionistic. 
Bur no matter how bravel y the samurai fight, they are simply outnumbered... 
Nakao is like a cornered bear, arcing his two swords wildly around him. He is shot in the chest, and staggers a moment before continuing. Another soldier shoots him in the arm at point blank range. Nakao', sword goes fl ying, so the giant Samurai leaps forward and picks up the shooter bodily, twirling him around like a wrestler, throwing him finally onto the upraised pike of a fellow Imperial soldier. But now three more soldiers have levelled their weapons, and a ruthless volley staggers him again. Shots rain on him as he tries to continue fighting, but his strength leaves him. Finally, with one last lunge, he manages to pull an Imperial soldier with him, crushing him as he falls. 
More and more fall as Algren, Katsumoto, and their comrades fight desperately... 
The mournful flute is the appropriate accompaniment as Ujio is mortally wounded. The grim award master is cut through with bullets. Still he fights. An Imperial soldier holds up a rifle to protect himself, and Ujio's blade cuts through the barrel. The soldier just has time to look at the gun in amazement before a second sweep of Uji o's sword beheads him. But there are too many to take the man's place, and finally fi ve men run Uji o through with bayonets, and he is pinned against the barricade, still upright in death. 
At last, what is left of this second wave of the Imperial Army, retreats. 
EXT.             PLAIN                            ALMOST SUNSET 
The plain before the barricade is littered with Imperial Army dead. 
Algren and Katsumoto sit exhausted, leaning against the barricade. They are both wounded. 
Only about. hundred samurai are still alive. 
Algren looks over the decimated warriors for a moment. Even those still alive are in bad shape as they wait for the next wave of Imperial soldiers. 
Katsumoto is looking at Ujio's body nearby. 
KATSUMOTO He was Kaishaku ... my trusted friend. 
ALGREN We won't be able to hold them back this time. 
KATSUMOTO This is not your battle. You do not have to die here. 
A long beat. 
THE SAMURAI CHARGE 
Even while riding at I full gallop, they have fixed arrows into their long 
bows. They let loose a lethal volley. 
BAGLEY 
BAGLEY Fire! Fire, dammit!!!!! 
But before the guns can open up, he is IMPALED BY ARROW AFTER ARROW, a human pincushion. The final arrow pierces his forehead. 
Then... 
The Gatling Guns finally fire. Ripping into the samurai- 
Destroying them- 
One after another is hit -- and still they come -- their voices raised in glorious cries of triumph- 
Graham watches from a hilltop, tears in his eyes. 
Katsumoto is hit, blood explodes .- his horse falls -- he spi1ls off-- 
Then Algren is hit -- he falls-- 
Algren drags himself to Katsumoto, bullets exploding ever ywhere ­ 
Algren looks up to see... 
The remaining samurai still charging- 
And still the Gatling Guns tear through them-- 
And still they charge ­ 
Until they are all down. 
EXT.             OPPOSING HILLTOP                           SUNSET 
A Japanese Officer shouts out an order -- the Gatling Guns stop. 
Omura screams at him to continue firing! 
The Japanese officer barks out response. Refusing. 
Omura sees all the samurai are dead or dying. 
But he also sees Algren kneeling by Katsumoto, dragging him awa y. He screams at the Japanese officer to resume fire! 
The Japanese officer refuses. 
He just looks over the plain of dying samurai for a moment. Then he does the most remarkable thing. 
He slowl y kneels and touches his head to the dirt. 
Then a soldier near him does the same thing. Then another and another. And then by the thousands. 
They kneel and touch their heads to the dirt. 
Honoring the last samurai. 
EXT.                PLAIN                    SUNSET 
A1gren drags the dying Katsumoto to a8 copse of cherry trees nearby... 
EXT.                           CHERRY TREES                                SUNSET 
Both men are bleeding profusel y. 
KATSUMOTO Help me up... 
ALGREN Just -- stay there. 
KATSUMOTO Help me up. 
Algren helps him to stand. Without Algren's support, he would fall. 
KATSUMOTO My sword... 
ALGREN No. 
KA TSUMOTO You have your honor again. Let me die with mine ... Kaishaku. 
Algren looks at him, deeply moved. Katsumoto manages to pull out his short sword. 
KATSUMOTO You must help me. Hold it firmly... 
Algren supports Katsumoto as he holds the sword's point firmly to his stomach. 
KA TSUMOTO Are you ready? 
ALGREN No, Kaishaku. 
Katsumoto looks at him deepl y, warmly. 
KATSUMOTO We will ride together again. 
Katsumoto embraces Algren firmly -- the sma1l sword impales him 
Algren holds him tightly. Katsumoto is looking over Algren's shoulder as he dies. 
Katsumoto sees something. A look of joy and absolute peace comes to his features. 
