DOCTOR Lieutenants Lambert and Lockwood. (rises, joins them) You two leaving us, eh? In a way, I'm sorry to release you two. I have no choice in the matter. 
Shep removes his glasses and presses his hand to his eye. 
SHEP What am I going to do, Major, about my-- oh, this rotten business? 
The doctor examines Shep's eye more closely. 
DOCTOR Mm? Spasmodic twitching of the muscles under the eye, eh, Lieutenant? 
SHEP Mm hm. 
DOCTOR What the French call a tic. T-I-C, tic. Little bothersome, isn't it? 
Shep puts his glasses back on. 
SHEP Yes, sir. 
DOCTOR I'm afraid time'll have to take care of that. Time and normal living. 
Shep's lips tighten skeptically. 
DOCTOR You two are returning to the United States, I presume? 
Shep glances at Cary. 
CARY Ah, we haven't decided. 
DOCTOR I'd take the first boat home. Well, here you go. 
The doctor gives Shep his release form and shakes his hand, then turns to shake Cary's. Cary merely looks down darkly and raises a bandaged hand at him. 
DOCTOR Oh, I forgot your burnt hands. 
The doctor folds up the release and stuffs it in Cary's breast pocket. 
DOCTOR Neither of you is fully hospitalized. I'd undertake a systematic course of finger exercises -- to, uh, stretch them and loosen them up. In time, you'll regain their full use. 
CARY Thank you, sir. 
The doctor gives Cary a pat on the shoulder. 
DOCTOR Bye, Lieutenant. 
Cary manages a smile and salutes. Shep moves to the door, saluting the doctor. 
DOCTOR Bye, Lieutenant. Good luck. 
Shep opens the door and he and Cary head out. After the door closes, the doctor rubs his head thoughtfully. He talks, apparently, to an offscreen aide. 
DOCTOR Well, there they go. Out to face life. (shakes his head) And their whole training was in preparation for death. 
He moves off as we 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HOSPITAL - MOMENTS LATER Shep and Cary exit the building but pause outside the doorway. They've seen something coming toward them and glance at one another before clearing out of its path. They watch glumly as a small group of wounded soldiers enter through some metal gates, walk slowly past Shep and Cary without acknowledgment, and head into the hospital. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - PERHAPS SIMULTANEOUS The office window opens. The doctor -- no longer in white but wearing his uniform -- and his aide take a break, standing in the window frame for a little fresh air. The doctor smokes a cigarette as they discuss Shep and Cary. 
AIDE Why can't they go on with flying? You know, the air mails or something? 
DOCTOR I'm afraid they're unfit for further service in that direction. 
The aide looks at him, quizzically. 
DOCTOR They fell, you know -- six thousand meters. (shakes his head, sadly) Like dropping a fine Swiss watch on the pavement. Shattered both of them. Their nervous systems are deranged, disorganized, brittle. 
AIDE Spent bullets. 
DOCTOR Spent bullets. That's it. (nods) They're like projectiles, shaped for war and hurled at the enemy. (gestures with cigarette) They've described a beautiful, high-arching trajectory. And now they've fallen back to earth. Spent. Cooled off. Useless. 
We slowly PULL BACK from the two men. 
AIDE Oh, well, if they take care of themselves, they'll pull through all right. 
DOCTOR Even if they do take care of themselves, what good are they? What can you expect of them? (shakes his head) I hate to think what may become of them. 
We have pulled back far enough and now we 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HOSPITAL - NOT LONG AFTER Two uniformed men with familiar faces -- exuberant pilot Bill and reserved gunner Francis -- arrive at the bottom of the stairs in front of the hospital. Bill, with his arm in a sling, and Francis, using a cane, start up the stairs and wave. 
NIKKI Teeth. 
CARY Teeth? 
After another look, Cary turns to his friends. 
CARY Hey, it's teeth! 
BILL (o.s.) Teeth?! 
Shep, Bill and Francis hurry over like children and crowd around to stare in amazement at the teeth. Nikki is unimpressed by all the attention. 
SHEP Teeth! 
NIKKI That's right. 
BILL (enthusiastic) Yup. It's a full set -- upper and lower. 
CARY (to Nikki) It's a nice expression. 
SHEP Hey, how come you're with those teeth? 
NIKKI I was just standing here. And a nice gentleman came along and begged my pardon and asked would I mind holding his teeth for a minute. 
CARY Well, what did he want you to hold his teeth for? 
NIKKI Said he wanted to biff somebody. 
BILL (excited) Biff somebody?! Which way did he go?! 
NIKKI Just around to the right. 
BILL Come on, men! We're liable to see a fight. 
As quickly as they arrived, Shep, Bill and Francis depart. Cary starts after them but stops to politely address Nikki who has gone back into her trance. 
CARY Would you like to come along? 
NIKKI (as if it were obvious) Oh, no. I have to stay here and mind the man's teeth. 
They glance down at the teeth. 
CARY Oh, of course. 
Cary hurries off as Nikki's empty eyes rise to the ceiling. 
FLASH CUT - A MAN'S FACE as it takes a combination one-two punch from a pair of fists. 
FLASH CUT - THE MAN'S BODY dropping unconscious to the floor. 
OUR FOUR HEROES enter a hallway just in time to see two Claridge's employees reach down and haul away the unconscious body. Our heroes have missed the fight but Shep and Bill are delighted anyway. Bill brushes his hands (one of his favorite gestures) with satisfaction, as if he had thrown the punches himself: 
BILL Well. THAT'S all fixed. 
Bill straightens his bow-tie. Already the group seeks a new distraction. 
CARY Let's go back. 
They head back to the bar. 
THE BAR Nikki, no longer standing against the wall, sits on a bar stool with her back to the countertop, smoking a cigarette and holding an empty champagne glass. Our heroes enter and, glancing at the wall, fail to see her. After a moment of searching, Cary spots her at the bar. 
CARY Oh, there she is. 
All four crowd around her, pleased to be in her company. 
BILL Well, we missed it. 
NIKKI Did something happen? 
BILL Well, they carried a guy out. (sees her empty glass) Say! What's become of the teeth? 
NIKKI Oh, the man came and got his teeth. 
CARY Well, what did he say? 
NIKKI He said thank you for holding his teeth. 
CARY What did he look like? 
NIKKI I think he fell in an airplane in the war -- and got his teeth knocked out. 
CARY Well, why do you think he was in the war? 
NIKKI Oh, he had a kind of little striped ribbon in his buttonhole. 
SHEP Yes! That's why he can't hold a glass. 
NIKKI Oh, I'm so ashamed. 
SHEP Now, Cary's had a pretty thin time. His nerves are tricky. You should never call attention to his hands. 
AT A TABLE Cary sits with a fresh drink and is trying awkwardly to pick it up when a handsome but humorless American journalist -- the unspeakable FRINK -- enters and greets him casually. 
FRINK Hi, Cary. 
CARY (unhappily) Oh, hello, Frink. 
Cary immediately turns his attention to a menu. Rebuffed, Frink wanders over to the bar and sees the other men. He has a friendly pat on the back for Francis and Bill. 
FRINK Hello, Francis. Bill. 
Frink pauses to stare at Nikki's back, astonished to find a woman sitting at the bar. Then he turns to Shep, amused. 
FRINK Shep. Drunk again? 
SHEP Say, don't you know any OTHER opening remarks? It's about all we've heard from you for a year. 
FRINK (signals the bartender) Hi! Jean! 
Frink snaps his fingers at Jean and grabs a seat next to Shep. Jean asks for Frink's order in French. 
FRINK Un sidecar. 
JEAN Sidecar ... [?] 
Jean moves off. Frink regards the others. 
FRINK Say, why don't you fellows go home and go to work? 
SHEP Work? What kind of work? 
FRINK Oh, anything useful. 
BILL What could we do? Sell washing machines? Drive a milk wagon? Mend old furniture or somethin'? Heh! 
FRINK Go back to flying. Fly the air mails. 
BILL Aw, we couldn't fly a kite. 
FRANCIS Maybe a small kite. 
Francis holds his fingers to indicate a very small kite. Bill chuckles. 
FRINK Well, there must be something you can do. 
SHEP We've got to tend to our drinking. We don't get much opportunity. 
FRINK Lots of things going on outside. Sun shining, trees growing, people walking around. 
BILL Say! Is that STILL going on? 
SHEP (laughs) Sounds pretty pre-war to me. 
During all this, Nikki has been in her own little world. Frink leans over and whispers to Shep. 
FRINK Hey. Don't I rate an introduction? Who's your swell friend? 
SHEP Oh, her? Just an old hussy we found scattered around. 
Around her neck, on a slender chain, Nikki carries a small lorgnette. It opens with a spring and has small rectangular lenses. She uses it frequently, peering at unfamiliar objects in her helpless, nearsighted way. On Shep's remark, she whips it out to stare at him, mildly offended. He raises his drink to his lips and turns to her, speaking out of the side of his mouth: 
SHEP (off Frink) Pay no attention. Sometimes he goes away. 
Nikki looks away glumly as Shep grins at her. She turns and sees something. She raises her lorgnette for a better look at: 
CARY who sits at his table, staring into space, holding his unread menu in his lap. 
NIKKI is pleased to see Cary. 
NIKKI Oh! He didn't go. 
She rises to join him. 
CARY startled, rises and stares at Nikki as she approaches. 
NIKKI Oh, I'm so sorry. Your hands... 
She tries to take his hands but he pulls them away in horror and stuffs them in his pockets. 
NIKKI Oh, your poor hands! Your poor, poor hands. 
BILL (with a wave, to Frink) Thank you. 
A waiter joins them as they settle in. 
SHEP Hello, Cary. 
CARY Hello, Shep. Hello, Nikki. What will you have to drink? 
FRANCIS Martini! 
BILL Martini! 
SHEP Martini! 
FRINK Martini! 
WAITER Quatre Martinis? 
NIKKI Uh, could I have champagne, please? 
WAITER Champagne? Oui. 
The waiter departs. Off her order, Bill gives Nikki a look. 
BILL Boys, she's goin' to be a problem. 
NIKKI (explains, to Bill) That's what I started on. (to Cary) It upsets me if I change over to anything else. 
CARY (to Bill) There's a lot of things wrong with this one. (to Nikki) What were you doing at the bar at Claridge's anyway? 
SHEP Yes. Don't you know you're not supposed to be there? 
FRANCIS There's a sign on the wall says ladies must sit at the back. 
NIKKI Can't read signs. 
SHEP Well, we'll just have to take care of her, that's all. 
BILL Do you think she's good-lookin' enough? 
NIKKI Oh, I know I'm not very good- looking but-- 
CARY But what? 
NIKKI But when I was a little girl, my mother always said I had the nicest hair-ribbon. 
Shep laughs derisively. The others give him a look and he shuts up. The drinks arrive. All the men, save Cary, snatch up their glasses. Bill removes the toothpicked olive and swallows his Martini whole. He watches Nikki rubbing her champagne's drinking straw between her hands as if she were a Boy Scout trying to start a fire. 
BILL Then there's her drinking. 
NIKKI What's the matter with my drinking? 
BILL You're a sissy drinker. 
NIKKI Well, maybe I can improve. 
Meanwhile, Cary attempts -- with some success -- to drink his Martini with one unsteady hand. Bill inspects Nikki's mouth. 
BILL Then there's her teeth. Why, one of 'em is turned sideways. 
NIKKI (points) You mean this one? 
BILL That's it. 
CARY Why don't you have it turned around? 
NIKKI I don't have it turned around on account of it's a kind of help. 
CARY Well, in what respect does it kind of help? 
NIKKI Well, you see, when anyone kisses me too hard, it splits my lip. And you could tell when anyone kissed me too hard on account of my lip would bleed. So now I don't let anyone kiss me -- hard. 
The men are amused. Nikki sips her champagne. 
CARY Well, we'll let that pass. 
Bill chuckles. Shep abruptly rises and walks off, presumably to the rest room. 
NIKKI Where's he gone? 
CARY Shep went off to sharpen his skates. 
BILL Now, about your nose. 
NIKKI What about my nose? 
She nods. Shep is amused. 
SHEP Sure. Go ahead. Tackle a horse. 
BILL (with a dismissive wave) All right, all right, I'll tackle a horse. 
Shep looks down the street. 
SHEP Here comes one now. 
They all look to see: 
A HORSE-DRAWN CAB rolling down the street in their direction. 
AT THE TABLE Everyone watches as Bill rises and suddenly bolts in the direction of the cab. 
BILL Look out, horse! 
THE HORSE-DRAWN CAB rolling along as Bill runs in and tackles the horse, locking his big arms around the animal's front legs to trip up the poor creature. 
ON THE SIDEWALK Cary, horrified, stands and yells: 
CARY Hey, Bill! Bill! Come back here! 
Cary runs off, toward Bill, leaving a thrilled Shep and a worried Francis with a distressed Nikki. They all stare in concerned amazement as a crowd of pedestrians stops to watch the excitement. 
NIKKI (distraught) Oh, Bill! 
AT THE HORSE-DRAWN CAB Cary rushes up to the startled cab driver who is pulling hard on the reins. 
CARY Hey! What's the idea -- runnin' down my friend like that? Here! 
Cary forces a wad of francs into the driver's hand. The cabman protests in French but takes the cash. 
WIDER VIEW of the fallen horse as the driver descends from the cab. Standing up now, Bill tries to haul the horse to its feet while Cary tries to placate the driver. 
CARY Never mind. Look where you're going in the future now. You just watch out where you're going! 
ANOTHER VIEW Bill grabs the horse by its bridle and tries to pull it up. The horse, sorely annoyed, gets up on its own and shakes its head violently to drive Bill away. Bill hangs on and tries to calm the horse. Cary tries to pull Bill away as Frink, Francis and the driver gather around. Bill is more interested in petting the horse which understandably shies away from him. 
CARY (admonishes Bill) Now listen, come on out here, you old fool. (to the shying horse) Whoa, whoa. 
BILL Nice horsie. 
CARY (to Bill) Now, listen, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. You old fool! You know what you'll do? You'll kill yourself one of these days. Now, come on, get out of here. Now, listen-- 
Satisfied with the outcome of all this, Bill heads back for the sidewalk. 
CARY (to the driver) You all right now, brother? 
The driver nods but is more concerned with reining in his skittish horse. 
CARY All right. Now, you just keep your horse, see? You got your money. 
The cabbie salutes Cary but pays more attention to his horse. 
BACK AT THE SIDEWALK TABLE The waiter sets out a fresh round of drinks as the group returns. Bill happily dusts off the sleeve of his dinner jacket. Cary, beside him, leads him to his seat. They all sit down under the following: 
CARY Hey, listen, Bill, you're All- American, see? You're TWO All- Americans! The lady's convinced you're the whole team. You don't have to tackle any more horses. How 'bout that? Drink your drink. 
BILL (pleased with himself) Ahhh. Wasn't that a great spill? 
Nikki abruptly rises. 
SHEP Hey! Where are you going? 
NIKKI Would you all excuse me for a moment? 
CARY Well, where are you going? 
NIKKI (a grave announcement) To take a Chinese singing lesson. 
Francis immediately understands that she's become one of them. He raises an olive in the air and cheers: 
FRANCIS Hooray! 
The men rise and all but Frink cheer her lustily as she departs: 
MEN Hooray! Hooray! Hooray! Hooray! 
NIKKI walks proudly into the restaurant as the men cheer. A smiling maitre d' directs her to the ladies' room. 
BACK AT THE TABLE Frink watches Nikki disappear from view and, after a glance at the others, rises and follows her. Shep, Bill and Cary remain at the table, laughing and drinking. Bill turns to Cary with a smile. 
BILL Hey. What kind of a girl do you think Nikki is? 
CARY Said his aunt had on a very low-neck dress. 
FRANCIS Can't believe it. 
BILL And she sat right across the table in front of me. And I said, "Auntie -- I can see your knees!" 
Nobody laughs or even changes expression. 
CARY (pointedly, after an awkward pause) I wonder what's doing in Portugal tonight. 
Bill is disappointed at the response. 
BILL Maybe I'd better do my match trick. 
NIKKI If you do match tricks, I'll recite. 
CARY Recite what? 
NIKKI Poetry. 
CARY Whose poetry? 
NIKKI My poetry. 
CARY You write poetry? 
NIKKI I'll send you a photograph of my poetry. 
Cary gives her a look, then rises and peers with one eye into the open bottle of champagne on the table between him and Nikki. He gestures at the bottle as he sits back down. 
CARY Say, I wonder if there's anything intoxicating in that. 
Everybody cracks up -- except Nikki, who looks a little hurt. 
An empty champagne bottle is placed on the floor. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BAL TABARIN BALL ROOM - STILL LATER THAT NIGHT By now, a dozen empty champagne bottles have been placed on the floor. 
CLOSE SHOT - FRINK'S HAND strays to Nikki's legs and up her dress. 
WIDER Nikki rises indignantly and turns on Frink. 
NIKKI Just what ARE your plans? 
WIDER STILL The other men seated at the table understand instantly what's going on and stare darkly at Frink. 
SHEP You'll have to watch that lad, Nikki. He's a member of the Wandering Hands Society and he has a groping good time. 
Frink nervously adjusts his necktie. Cary glares at him. 
CARY Your behavior, sir, is unseemly, unethical, indelicate and lousy. Have I made myself clear? 
Frink, pretending chagrin, looks at Nikki. 
FRINK All right. My mistake. I'm sorry. 
CARY You'll have to watch out for him, Nikki. He's just a licentious old man. 
NIKKI It's getting pretty late, isn't it? 
CARY Do you want to go home, Nikki? (rises) I'll take you home. Where do you live? 
NIKKI Hotel Carlton. 
The others, except for Frink, begin to rise, too. Shep pays the waiter. 
BILL I'll take her home, too. 
FRANCIS So will I! 
SHEP We'll match to see who takes her home! 
BILL Nothin' doing! We'll ALL take her home. 
CARY I saw her first. 
BILL It makes no difference. She belongs to us all now! 
Nikki laughs as they all depart. Frink rises wearily to follow them out. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. HOTEL CARLTON - LOBBY - LATER THAT NIGHT The group enters the spacious, empty lobby, laughing loudly. Someone says, "Wheeee!" Others say, "Ssshhh!" They cross to the front desk. 
The car starts up the shaft again. 
NIKKI Hurray! 
SHEP & FRANCIS Hurray! 
CARY There we are. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - FIFTH FLOOR - MINUTES LATER - LONG TRAVELING SHOT The elevator door opens. Cary leads the way as everyone else spills out happily into the hall. Shep puts a congratulatory arm around Cary. 
SHEP Say! That's a pilot for ya. 
BILL You deserve a medal. 
Bill pins Nikki's room key to Cary's vest pocket. Smiling, Cary holds it up proudly to Nikki. 
BILL All right, come on, men. 
They head down the hallway in a drunken, disorganized fashion. Shep walks an imaginary tightrope, wobbling spectacularly. Cary, bringing up the rear, shuts the elevator door and escorts Nikki. 
FRANCIS I need a rest, I need a rest. 
Francis drops into a handy chair and lights a cigarette but Bill immediately hauls him up: 
BILL Come on, come on. 
Bill, whistling and pretending to ice skate, leads the group down the hall. Francis tries to enter a room but Frink pulls him out of the doorway. Bill backtracks to help Frink escort Francis. This allows Cary and Nikki to take the lead. Nikki indicates the correct doorway to Cary. 
NIKKI Right here. 
CARY Oh! Eighty-eight! Here we are! 
The group cheers. Cary unlocks the door. The group enters Nikki's hotel room. 
INT. NIKKI'S HOTEL SUITE - SITTING ROOM - CONTINUOUS Laughing, the group files into the darkened room and spreads out. 
SHEP Wheeeee! 
Nikki switches on the lights. Bill marvels at the luxurious suite. 
BILL Well, for--! Well, I'll be a--! Look! Nikki's got a whole apartment! 
SHEP And a gramophone! 
Delighted, Shep starts to crank up the gramophone. 
CARY (unimpressed) Yeah! And chairs and tables and floors and ceilings and everything. 
FRANCIS So THIS is where Nikki lives! 
Amused and pleased by their reaction, Nikki heads for her bedroom. 
NIKKI Yes, this is where Nikki lives. 
Shep picks up a book and admires it grandly. 
SHEP And she's got a book! 
The gramophone comes to life and MUSIC plays from a record. Nikki passes into the bedroom and switches on a light. 
FRANCIS Got all the comforts of home. 
Frink tries to follow Nikki into the bedroom but Bill pointedly intercepts him. Disappointed, Frink looks past him into Nikki's bedroom and Bill follows his gaze to see: 
PERFUME BOTTLES on Nikki's glass-topped dressing table -- dozens of them. 
BILL Hey! Look at all the bottles! 
Bill enters and inspects the table closely. 
NIKKI'S BEDROOM as the other four men respond to Bill's enthusiastic summons and enter. 
BILL Hey! Come on in and look at Nikki's bottles! 
Cary joins Bill at the table as the Texan picks up one of the bottles and reads the label. 
BILL Ylang! Ylang! 
CARY Hey, don't be handlin' her things. Put 'em down. 
But Bill goes right on, delighted. The others crowd around the table. 
BILL Chichi! 
SHEP Awww! Bed? 
They rise reluctantly. Bill shakes water off his hand. 
BILL Yup, all right. 
They file out of the bathroom. 
SHEP (waves to the turtles) So long, turtles. 
BILL Good night, turtles. 
FRANCIS Night, turtles. 
Frink follows the others humorlessly, without a word to the turtles. 
TRACKING SHOT - THROUGH THE SUITE The entire group exits the bathroom, passes through the bedroom and heads into the sitting room. 
BILL Poor Nikki. Do you wanna go to sleep? 
NIKKI (nods) Mm hm. 
SHEP Sleep? You should NEVER go to sleep! 
BILL (with a wave, to Nikki) Well, good night. 
As Bill enters the sitting room, he looks around and hurries away toward something he sees off screen. Shep and Francis follow. 
SHEP (with a wave) Nighty-night, Nikki. 
Francis says nothing. 
FRINK Good night, Nikki. 
Frink is the last out the bedroom door, though Cary stays behind to linger a moment with Nikki. 
SITTING ROOM Bill takes a pillow from the sofa and tosses it across the room. He proceeds to leap feet first onto the sofa, fall on his back with his feet in the air, then stretch his legs out across the sofa, lying down to go to sleep. 
BILL (satisfied) Ah! 
Shep, watching this, scratches his head, confused, then moves to join him. Frink watches Francis drag some sort of heavy fringed rug to the floor near the sofa, apparently preparing to lie down on it. 
AT THE BEDROOM DOOR Nikki and Cary stand close, exchanging warm goodnights. 
NIKKI (dead serious) Good night, Cary. 
CARY (playful) Good night, Nikki. 
Cary, perhaps pleased with Nikki's attention to him, watches her withdraw into the bedroom and shut the door. He turns from the door to see: 
LOW ANGLE SHOT - SITTING ROOM Four men, happily situated, settling in for a night's sleep: Bill and Shep on the sofa, Frink on a chair, their three pairs of feet propped up on a table. Francis, his head on a pillow, lies on the floor, stretching his legs and yawning as only a narcoleptic can. 
BILL Say! I like this place. 
FRANCIS Say, I like this place, too. 
SHEP I think it's swell. 
CARY peers at them skeptically, hands on his hips. 
FRINK (o.s.) It suits me. 
CARY You fellas think you're gonna PARK here? 
BILL (o.s.) Sure! 
FRANCIS (o.s.) Sure. 
Cary hears the bedroom door open behind him and turns to see: 
NIKKI opening the door, wearing a robe, carrying a bottle of eau de Cologne and some towels. 
NIKKI (innocently) Will somebody please scrub my back? 
LOW ANGLE SHOT - SITTING ROOM Excited again, Bill jumps to his feet, upsetting the others in the process. 
BILL Will somebody scrub your back?! Look out, boys! 
The men struggle to their feet and follow him to: 
NIKKI holds the bottle in her hand. The men's hands reach for it but Bill is quicker than the others and commandeers it with authority. 
BILL I got it, I got it, I got it. 
From over Nikki's nearly bare back, we watch Bill whistling jauntily as he shakes eau de Cologne onto a towel. 
FRANCIS Morning. 
BILL Um, prairie oyster. 
SHEP Prairie oyster. 
Shep has to nudge Francis with an elbow. 
FRANCIS Prairie oyster. 
BARTENDER Prairie oyster for three. 
Bartender moves off. Shep puts on his dark eyeglasses. 
CARLTON BAR - ANOTHER VIEW We start on a CLOSE SHOT of three drinking glasses as the bartender breaks a raw egg into one. Beside them are the other ingredients of a potent hangover remedy. We PAN OVER to the three men: 
SHEP Say, we'd better get back to our hotel. 
FRANCIS There's no Nikki at our hotel. 
BILL That's right. 
SHEP And the bar doesn't open so early. 
BILL Say! Why don't we move in here? 
FRANCIS Sure. Let's stay here. 
BILL But - what about Cary? 
FRANCIS (to Shep) What about Cary? 
SHEP (to Francis) What ABOUT Cary? 
Francis shakes his head, he has no idea. 
BILL We can move him in, too. 
Francis nods in agreement. Shep thinks it over as the drinks arrive. 
SHEP Not a bad idea! 
Shep pays off the bartender who departs with a mumbled "thank you." The three men each down their nasty hangover cures in a single swallow and move off one at a time -- first Shep who exhales deeply, then Francis who takes it in stride. Finally, Bill exhales happily and claps his hands as he follows the others out, their hangovers apparently remedied. 
BILL (cheerfully) Well, come on, men. Let's go. 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN 
INT. NIKKI'S SUITE - LATER THAT DAY Phonograph music plays as an Asian maid, the hotel's specialist in Chinois Pedicure, paints Nikki's toenails. We PAN UP to discover Nikki wearing a robe, sitting in a chair next to the phonograph, smoking a cigarette and checking on the progress of her paint job. A snappy knock at the door. 
NIKKI (wearily) Entrez! 
THE FRONT DOOR opens and Bill, looking dapper, enters. 
BILL Hi, Nik! 
Then, Shep enters, wearing his dark eyeglasses and carrying a bouquet of flowers. 
SHEP Hello, Nikki! 
Next, Francis enters, sleepily. 
FRANCIS (in mid-yawn) Hello. 
Finally, Cary, who closes the door behind him. 
CARY Good morning, Nikki. 
The men are all: wearing suits and ties, pleased to see her, and stone sober. Francis finds his way to the sofa, which has been returned to its proper spot in the room. He lies down and shuts his eyes. 
NIKKI (o.s.) Hello, Bill. Hello, Shep. Hello, Cary. Hello, Francis. 
FRANCIS (from the sofa) Morning, Nikki. 
NIKKI I didn't expect to see you all so early. 
Shep puts the flowers in a vase. 
BILL We camped on your doorsteps last night. And this morning we all moved in. 
Cary leans over her affectionately. 
CARY Despite your practically innumerable faults, we adore you. We've decided to adopt you. 
FRINK I-- Well-- 
During the above dialogue, Bill nudges Cary mischievously and they glance down at the tray in front of them. They exchange knowing nods, pick up some drinks, bring them over, and offer one to Frink. 
BILL Have a drink? 
FRINK No, thanks. 
SHEP Cure the shakes. 
FRINK I haven't got the shakes. 
CARY Let's see. Hold out your hands. 
Bill and Shep watch with interest as Frink holds out his hands, palms up. 
CARY No, turn them over. 
Frink turns them over, palms down. Cary looks at Frink's steady hands, impressed. 
CARY Say, that's pretty good. 
Cary looks down at the drink in his own hand. 
CARY Let's see if you can hold this. 
Cary sets the glass on top of Frink's downturned hand. Frink balances the full glass with ease. 
CARY Say, that's great. 
Cary places a second full glass on Frink's other hand. Frink balances both glasses with ease. Cary expresses keen admiration. 
CARY Steady as a rock! 
Frink looks at the others, a little smugly. Cary slowly backs away and walks off, as do the others. Frink's face falls as he realizes he has been left standing in the middle of the room with two drinks balanced on top of his hands and no way to safely remove them. 
Cary, Shep and Bill return to Nikki and crowd around her. 
CARY Well, I guess that'll keep his hands out of mischief for a while. 
Frink, abandoned, reluctantly pleads with the others. 
FRINK Hey. Take these off. 
But the others simply ignore him. 
CARY Now, let's see. Where were we before we were so rudely interrupted? 
BILL We were talkin' about Nikki's legs. 
CARY That's right. We were talkin' about Nikki's legs. And havin' a fine time, too. 
The Asian maid who has been working on Nikki's feet abruptly rises. 
WOMAN Finis. 
The men cheer, "Yay!" and Nikki smiles at the woman as she exits with her tools. The men crowd closer to peer down at Nikki's legs. 
SHEP Let's inspect the job. 
But Nikki quickly covers her toes with a hand. 
NIKKI Oh, my poor toes. Don't look too close. 
Nikki wraps her robe around her legs and stuffs them under body. Since she's no longer using her footstool, Cary commandeers it and sits on it. 
CARY Well, what's the matter with your toes? 
Nikki grows extremely somber and begins to tell a story -- very slowly. Her eyes stare into space and her voice conveys terrible sadness. 
NIKKI Well... when I was a little girl... 
A worried look crosses Cary's face. 
NIKKI ... my mother bought me a new pair of shoes. ... And they were WAY too short. ... 
Shep and Bill listen soberly. 
NIKKI ... And I had to walk all the way to Sunday school and back. ... Down the road. ... And it was hot and dusty. 
BILL (hand to his face) Oh, take her away! She's breakin' my heart! (sobs) 
NIKKI And when I got home ...  my toes were spoiled. 
CARY (on the verge of tears) Oh, dear, oh, dear. 
NIKKI Cary?! Cary? I'm coming with you. 
Without waiting for a reply, she starts for the elevator, then stops to look down at her shoes. 
NIKKI Oooh! (to Cary) Ooh, wait for Nikki! 
She leaves him and runs back to: 
THE FRONT DOOR of her suite where Shep still stands. He watches with surprise as Nikki runs in. 
NIKKI (calls back to Cary) Wait for Nikki! 
Puzzled, Shep follows Nikki who rushes to: 
HER BEDROOM CLOSET Nikki draws the curtain to reveal her enormous collection of dresses and shoes. Shep, drink in hand, wanders in slowly and leans against the doorjamb as he watches Nikki pull off one pair of shoes and put on a seemingly identical pair of red ones. 
SHEP What are you changing your shoes for? 
NIKKI On account of I can walk faster in red shoes. 
Shep watches her hop and scurry off. 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN 
EXT. AVENUE CASIMIR-PERIER - LATER THAT DAY Passerbys carry umbrellas on this rainy day. A taxi cab pulls up to a sidewalk café -- LA REGENCE, according to the awning that covers the little iron tables. Cary emerges from the cab and pays off the driver as Nikki hurries under the awning. Cary joins her and, after a word to the driver ("Restez ici."), looks at the rain. 
CARY (to Nikki) Perhaps we'd better stay here a while till it clears up. 
NIKKI Could we sit down here, do you suppose? 
CARY I think so. Would you like something to drink? 
They move toward the café. As Cary hangs up his hat, a waiter arrives. 
NIKKI What should I drink now, do you suppose? 
Cary orders the drinks as Nikki moves to sit at a table. 
CARY (to the waiter) Deux picon citrons. 
The waiter acknowledges this and heads inside, calling out the order to his bartender. Cary joins Nikki at the table and sits down. She removes her gloves and fixes her face while he takes out a cigarette and lights it under the following: 
NIKKI Picon citrons? 
CARY Very refreshing. Make you laugh and play. 
NIKKI (amused) That's what you always promise. (suddenly serious) Cary, why does Shep Lambert go on drinking so desperately? 
CARY Don't we all? 
NIKKI Not like Shep. 
CARY Well, Shep has that tic under his eye, you know. Takes a lot of drinks to keep that quiet. 
NIKKI But isn't there some kind of treatment or something? 
CARY Shep could never stand a long course of treatment. Drinking's the only corrective so far as he's concerned. He's found out the tic doesn't work when he's tight. So he stays tight. 
The waiter arrives with the drinks. As he spritzes seltzer water into their glasses, Cary leans over to light a cigarette for Nikki. The waiter leaves and they drink. 
NIKKI Seems such a pity. How did he get the tic? 
CARY In the war. 
NIKKI I know. But how? 
CARY Well, it's not very romantic. 
NIKKI Well, don't tell me if you don't want to. 
CARY Well, you see, a tic is a nervous habit. 
NIKKI Yes? 
CARY Lice under his bandages. 
NIKKI Oh. 
CARY He had the devil of a time. He nearly lost his mind. So you'll have to excuse him a little. 
NIKKI I'm so sorry for Shep. 
CARY Well, don't let him know it. 
CARY Whatever that is. He gained a footing in a certain household as tutor to a maiden called Héloïse. And employed his unlimited opportunities for the purpose of-- Well, betrayal. Not, however, unmixed with real love. He carried her off to Brittany. 
NIKKI Tell me more. 
CARY Well, her uncle was furious. He blamed Abélard for the whole thing. He conceived a terrible revenge. 
NIKKI (uneasy) I'm afraid for Abélard. 
CARY He broke into Abélard's apartment one night and perpetrated upon him the most brutal punishment. 
NIKKI Oh, dear. 
CARY The lovers were forced to live their lives apart. But when they died, they were buried here side by side. (peers down at the ground) There's a story that little heart- shaped stones are supposed to grow around the tomb. 
NIKKI Heart-shaped stones? 
CARY And lovers come and find them and exchange them with each other. (looks at Nikki) And, so long as you keep the stone from the tomb of Héloïse and Abélard, no harm can come to your true love. 
NIKKI How perfectly beautiful. 
CARY Isn't that a quaint legend? 
They crouch at the iron bars of the gate surrounding the tomb and take off their gloves under the following: 
NIKKI Do you think I might find a heart- shaped stone? You help me, Cary. 
CARY All right, Nikki. Only we have to leave soon. (looks off) They close up the place. 
NIKKI Just as soon as we find our stones. 
They reach through the gate to poke at the rocks and gravel surrounding the tomb. After a moment, Nikki rises and walks off excitedly with a stone in her hand. 
NIKKI I found one! Where's yours? 
Cary, too, finds a stone and rises to join her. 
NIKKI AND CARY'S HANDS as the couple sits near the tomb. They show each other the stones in their upturned hands. Nikki takes the heart-shaped stone from her palm and places it in Cary's stiff, weathered hand. Then she transfers his stone to her hand. 
NIKKI And, now, you take mine. And I'll take yours. 
They close their hands over the stones as we PULL BACK to a WIDER VIEW of Nikki and Cary smiling at one another. 
NIKKI Isn't that the way the story goes? 
CARY That's right, Nikki. 
NIKKI And, now, no harm can come to our true love. 
CARY (amused) And, now, we'll have to go. 
He starts to rise but she puts a hand on his arm. 
NIKKI You were so nice to let me come with you. I spoiled your whole day. You were going to do something else, weren't you? 
CARY (looks away) Doesn't matter. 
NIKKI Well, what was it, Cary? Why did you come here today? 
CARY (not looking at her) To pay my respects to an old comrade. 
NIKKI Oh. And you wanted to be alone. I'm sorry. Oh, I'm so sorry. (begins to weep softly) Don't pay any attention to me, Cary. I can't help it. You MAKE me cry. 
He stares at her, astonished, as she rambles on. 
NIKKI Oh, don't look so troubled, Cary. I'm all right. I just want to cry for a minute. (puts a hand on his shoulder) On account of you're so nice. You're so clean, Cary. And your teeth are so white. You're so civilized. You don't care about anything any more, nor anybody. Nothing makes any difference to you. Nothing can touch you. (realizes) Why, you're lost. You're ALL lost. You and Shep and the rest of you. (takes his hand) Oh, I want to do something for you. I want to help you. (looks at his wrist) Let me wash your bracelet, Cary. (points) Why, see? The silver's all tarnished. The silver's all tarnished. (removes his bracelet) I'll take it with me and scrub it when I get home. I'll polish it with my nail-brush. 
Nikki turns to put the bracelet in her purse. Thoroughly unnerved by this emotional outburst, Cary looks around. 
CARY It's getting dark. 
Cary rises, deeply uncomfortable. Nikki tries to make amends. 
NIKKI Well ... (rises, cheerily) Anyway, we found a name for my turtles! 
Cary turns and looks at her, amazed. 
CARY Héloïse and Abélard? A name for your turtles? So that's what you were looking for. I might have known how it would end. 
He looks down at the heart-shaped stone held awkwardly in his stiff hand. His thumb brushes the stone and it falls to the ground. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. NIKKI'S BEDROOM - THAT NIGHT Nikki sits, soberly polishing Cary's bracelet with her nail brush. Shep enters, drink in hand. 
SHEP Hi, Nik. 
NIKKI If Cary's going to Portugal, why can't we go to Portugal, too? Ain't we got any rights? 
BILL Sure we got rights! 
Getting organized for their own impromptu Portuguese expedition, Bill, Francis and Shep fill the trunk with Nikki's things as Frink leans on it, smoking a cigarette and eyeing Nikki coolly. 
SHEP Cary better not think he can screw up in Portugal and leave old Shep behind. 
FRINK Say, when's he leaving? 
SHEP Ten-thirty in the morning. Sud Express. 
NIKKI Don't we have to have passports and things? 
SHEP Sure we gotta have passports! 
Bill joins Nikki. 
BILL What kind passports you like? 
NIKKI What kind passports you got? 
BILL We have ebony, cocoanut, thornberry passports. 
NIKKI (grandly) I'll take vanilla. 
She brushes past him and crosses to a table where she is joined by Frink. 
FRINK Good night, Nikki. I'll see you on the train. 
NIKKI You're goin', too? 
FRINK Why not? (with a sly smile) I might, uh, pick up a couple of features for my paper - in Portugal. 
Frink walks out the door. Nikki sighs a little and then busies herself with carrying items the trunk. Shep arrives with a selection of dresses as the group crowds together. Chaotic overlapping dialogue: 
SHEP Nikki, do you want --? 
NIKKI Did you put all my shoes in? 
BILL You bet. There they are-- 
SHEP I don't know how you're going to get all these dresses in, Nikki. 
From the trunk, we 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. NIKKI'S SUITE - NEXT MORNING A mountain of trunks and other luggage piled on the floor. Nikki sits down near Shep who finishes packing a suitcase on the floor. 
NIKKI Don't we have to go like anything? The train leaves in twenty minutes. 
Francis leans casually on the towering pile of luggage. Bill stands next to him, smoking a cigarette and calling ironically to Nikki: 
BILL Are you SURE you have everything? 
NIKKI (misses the irony) I - I think so. 
Francis clicks his tongue as he regards the pile. 
FRANCIS (dryly) Hardly seems enough. 
Suddenly, Nikki gasps and rises. 
NIKKI Oh, my turtles! My turtles! 
THE TURTLES are plucked from the tub and placed in ... 
... A BASKET by Nikki's little Asian maid. The fancy beribboned wicker basket has an oversized handle which makes it a rather improbable turtle carrier. Bill secures a wire mesh covering over the basket and carries it out of the bathroom, handing it grandly to Francis. 
BILL Here you are, Francis! You're the custodian of the turtles! Now don't fall down on the job. 
Bill walks off. Francis calls after him, worried: 
FRANCIS Hey! I never tended turtles before. 
Nikki arrives with a bottle of water and soaks her hand. 
NIKKI Now, all you have to do - 
She gives Francis the bottle and sprinkles the turtles with water from her wet hand. 
NIKKI - is to sprinkle 'em now and then, like this. 
FRANCIS Oh, yeah. I see. 
GENTLEMAN Hm? 
The men hear Nikki SCREAMING. 
CARY Nikki! 
Francis, Cary, Bill and Shep -- in that order -- scramble out the door, leaving the old gentleman behind. 
NIKKI'S VOICE Cary! Bill! Shep! 
The men rush down the corridor to: 
INT. NIKKI'S COMPARTMENT - A MOMENT LATER Frink grapples with a half-dressed Nikki, his lips pressed to her neck as she struggles to free herself from his grasp. 
NIKKI Cary! 
Energized by Nikki's peril, Francis bursts in and pulls Frink away from her. 
FRANCIS Say! 
Nikki grabs a wrap from the turned-down bed and covers herself as Frink pushes Francis hard into a nearby wall, knocking him to the floor. 
FRINK Get out of here! 
Frink turns back to a defiant Nikki as Cary enters and sees a dazed Francis slumped against the wall, clutching his head. Cary grabs Frink's shoulder and spins him around. 
CARY Say, what's the idea? 
FRINK What's the idea? Well, what business is that of yours? 
By now, Bill and Shep have entered and joined the tense confrontation. 
CARY Nikki, you all right? What is this tough trying to do to you anyway? 
NIKKI Well, I was just going to bed and he came in and flang himself all over me. 
CARY Frink, you'd better get out of here right away before something happens to you. 
FRINK What right have you to tell me to get out of here? This isn't your compartment, is it? 
CARY Oh, I see. You wanna argue about it. If you don't clear out of here right now, you're liable to get hurt. 
FRINK All right. Suppose you put me out. 
BILL (savagely) Put him out? I'll snap his spine and throw him off the train! 
Cary rolls his eyes at this remark and wisely holds Bill back. 
CARY Hold everything, Bill! 
Distraught, Nikki sinks down on a chair. 
NIKKI Oh, dear, does everybody have to act like this? 
Frink turns to her in protest. 
FRINK I'm not gonna let these silly drunks tell ME where to get off. 
SHEP Silly drunks?! 
CARY Silly drunks, did you say? 
FRINK Yes. And that goes for the whole bunch of you. 
BILL Let me have him. 
CARY (to Bill) Wait a minute. I'll take care of him. 
FRINK You will, eh? 
Frink starts to strong-arm Cary. Cary punches Frink in the jaw, knocking him onto the bed. 
SHEP Socko! 
As Frink slumps down to floor and leans against the bed, half-conscious, Francis rises and watches the proceedings with a hand on his head. 
NIKKI Oh, dear! 
Cary, fist still tightly clenched, stands over the dazed Frink as Bill brightens considerably and wipes his hands with delight. 
BILL Mm! Now, ain't that nice? Have you ever seen anything so cute? 
Francis exits uncertainly. 
CARY Will you be all right now, Nikki? 
PEDRO Why, listen, bull-fighting is just for us, the Latins. 
BILL He thinks we're a-scared! 
NIKKI (helpfully) He tackled a horse once. 
PEDRO (stares at Bill) Tackle a horse? 
Full of himself, Bill nods. 
PEDRO (turns away; flatly) Is not the same! 
Everyone suddenly stares in shock as: 
IN THE RING the bull knocks down the matador. Others rush in to distract the bull which runs wild, out of control. 
IN THE FRONT ROW Frink nudges Francis awake and points out the carnage in the ring. Francis glances at the spectacle briefly and then sleepily applauds. Frink gives him a look and nudges him to stop clapping. Francis simply goes back to sleep. 
WILD BULL MONTAGE The toreros try to control the bull but it refuses to cooperate. 
The crowd watches intently. Bill takes off his own hat and picks up the matador's cap that Cary had caught. 
Toreros scramble and run for their lives. The bull chases them down, runs across the ring, forcing them to jump the barrera, the protective wooden barrier that circles the inside of the arena. 
Bill, now wearing the cap, can't resist leaning over and mocking a group of toreros who huddle in the callejon, the safe side of the barrier, just below him. 
BILL Nice work, Tony! Nice work, Joe! 
The toreros look up at Bill in surprise. One of them responds in Portuguese with a gesture toward the ring, as if to ask "If it's so easy, why don't you try it?" The other toreros laugh. 
Bill stares into the ring, a savage look in his eyes. He puts a leg up on the railing. 
He jumps down into the ring. 
CARY'S VOICE Hey! 
Cary rises, stunned. 
CARY Bill! Come back here! 
But it is too late. Bill's coat is already off and he waves it like a cape as he stalks after the bull. 
The bull turns and sees him. 
Bill moves toward it, waving his coat and grinning like a madman. 
Shep is frozen. Beside him, Nikki screams and turns away. 
The bull begins to charge. 
Cary climbs over the railing. 
The bull charges. 
TRACK FAST TOWARD Bill who holds the coat before him -- big eyes, big grin. 
The bull is on him. The bull roars. 
Bill's face snaps backward in a blur, his coat follows. 
The bull gores him through his coat. His face twists in pain. 
CUT WIDE as the bull knocks Bill's body around the ring like a rag doll. He hits the ground hard. Screams from the crowd. 
Four toreros rush in. 
They surround and distract the bull. Bill lies motionless. 
Cary runs across the ring. 
More toreros and others rush in, surrounding the bull, finally leading away. 
In the front row, Shep, Nikki, Francis, Frink and Pedro watch with concern as 
... toreros converge on Bill and try to move his body. Cary joins them. 
CARY Bill! 
But Bill is unconscious. A torero says something to Cary in Portuguese. Cary and the others lift Bill. 
CARY Take it easy! Take it easy! 
They carry Bill off. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. CARNIVAL - NIGHT The amusement park at Port Mayer. Crowds, carnival NOISES, a carousel with appropriate MUSIC. 
At a nearby refreshment stand, we find the group, minus Bill. Everyone is unusually silent and wearing dinner clothes. Francis holds a mug upside-down. Frink leers at Nikki who ignores him while she, Shep and Cary down their drinks. They hear: 
GUNSHOTS. 
They look over to see: 
A little shooting gallery where customers rent genuine guns to shoot various colorful targets and win prizes. 
CARY Sounds like old times. 
SHEP Let's go and shoot. 
CARY Not a bad idea. (to Nikki) What say, Annie Oakley? Like to fire off a gun at something? 
NIKKI No objection. 
SHEP (to their bartender) We'll be right back. Hold everything. 
The group starts over to: 
THE SHOOTING GALLERY where an assortment of rifles and pistols are neatly laid out. Cary and Shep escort Nikki to the arsenal while Frink and Francis tag along behind. An attendant joins them to collect their money and ready their weapons. 
SHEP First one to miss pays for the drinks. 
CARY What'll we shoot at? 
NIKKI Shoot one of those pussycats and see what happens. 
SHEP All right. Look out, pussycat. 
Shep FIRES and misses the moving cats that float across the base of the range on an endless chain and disappear. But he hits a tinier target: a clay pipe behind them. 
Shep's eyes pop with surprise. 
SHEP Well, that's what I was aiming at, a clay pipe. (stares in amazement) Whole thing's been misrepresented to me. 
Cary laughs at him. 
NIKKI Cary, let's see you shoot something. 
Cary takes careful aim. 
CARY Look out, ball! 
He FIRES and hits a ball balanced atop a stream of water. 
NIKKI What'd YOU aim at? 
CARY Well, let's see you shoot something. 
Nikki awkwardly raises her little target rifle to her shoulder. The end of the barrel describes uncertain circles in the air. A multiple exposure point-of- view shot of the targets reveals that Nikki is a little too tipsy to be handling a gun. Cary moves to help her. 
CARY Oh, no, no, no, Nikki. 
NIKKI How do you hold it still? 
CARY Listen, Nikki, on your right shoulder. Now, put your hand out there and hold up-- No, don't cover up the site. No, no, no, that's right. Now just hold it evenly-- 
Rapid GUNSHOTS. Cary looks up in surprise. He and Shep turn to watch in amazement as Francis cuts loose with an automatic rifle, shattering a whole row of pipes with split-second firing. 
The others cheer as Francis lowers the weapon and stares moodily at an astonished and, apparently, very drunk Frink. Cary takes this moment to encourage Nikki. 
CARY You can do better than that. Show him up. 
She again tries unsuccessfully to hold the rifle steady. Amused, Frink picks up a pistol and imitates her. 
FRINK What are you waving at, Nikki? 
Cary sees Frink pointing his gun at Nikki and moves to intervene, grabbing Frink's wrist with both hands. 
CARY (angry) Look out! Why, you fool. Don't you know better than that? 
Shep and Francis move to shield Nikki. 
FRINK What's the idea? 
CARY Pointing a loaded gun at Nikki? 
FRINK Take your hands off me. 
CARY Put down that gun! 
FRINK Let go of my wrist! 
CARY Did you see the way Francis poured lead into that fellow? 
SHEP Fast work. 
CARY Fast? Chain lightning! 
SHEP Nice shooting. 
CARY Those slugs went right past my ear. If I'd've moved an inch, I would've caught one of them myself. 
SHEP "Sudden Death," all right. 
Nikki takes out a cigarette. 
CARY What's the matter with you, Shep? I've never known you so quiet before. 
SHEP That's right. I am kind of quiet. 
NIKKI (holds her unlit cigarette) Not smoking? 
SHEP No. 
NIKKI Your lighter working? 
SHEP Good ol', Nikki -- never has any matches. 
NIKKI No. 
As Shep puts his hand in his inside jacket pocket to pull out his cigarette lighter, a strange look crosses his face. 
SHEP Sure you want a light? 
NIKKI That's what I want, a light. 
Shep pulls out the lighter and flicks it on -- revealing bloodstains on his white shirt. Nikki stares down at the blood in horror. 
NIKKI Shep. Shep! 
Nikki jumps up and moves away from Shep, into a seat opposite. 
CARY What is it? 
NIKKI Shep's hurt! 
Cary turns to Shep, who slumps back weakly against his seat with a strange look of release and satisfaction on his face. 
SHEP It's a forgery. 
Cary examines Shep, reaching in to feel his bloody wound. 
NIKKI Do something for him, Cary! Oh, Shepard! 
CARY He's been shot! 
NIKKI What can we do, Cary?! What can we do?! 
CARY Shep, why didn't you say you were hurt? 
SHEP Good old Cary. Sweet Nikki. You may not believe it but this is the best thing that ever happened to me. 
CARY Oh, Shep, Shep, don't say that. You'll be all right. We'll get you to a hospital. 
Shep puts a hand on Cary's arm as the taxi continues to jolt along down the street. 
SHEP No, no, Cary. Don't rush me anywheres. Let's sit here for a while. The-- Hurts, the jolting. 
Urgently, Cary reaches over and bangs on the glass between themselves and the cab driver. 
CARY Stop! Stop! 
In front of the carnival's slowly revolving carousel, the cab rolls to a stop. The carousel MUSIC drifts in. Shep hardly moves -- head back, blank eyes staring, voice dreamy and weak. Cary puts his face close to Shep's, listening intently. 
SHEP That's better. You know, Cary, I feel - just like we're falling -- long time ago. Do you remember? Spinning ... spinning ... spinning. Only you brought me down safe. Oh, Cary. Good old Cary. (sighs) Best flyer in the service. 
Nikki, seated opposite, is distraught. 
NIKKI Oh, Shepard, Shepard, darling. 
CARY (reassuring) We're gonna make a safe landing again, Shep. 
SHEP Not this time, Cary. Ol' Shep's gonna crash. (beat) Say, but we're spinning fast. Level off. Cary, level off. 
Shep's head slumps down. His face presses against Cary's shoulder. 
NIKKI'S VOICE Oh, Shepard, Shepard, darling. 
