LEGEND ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY by WILLIAM HJORTSBERG 
2nd Draft Revised 10 March 1984 
1EXTERIOR FOREST NIGHT 
Huge trees taper upward like columns supporting the roof of heaven. Moonlit dewdrops spangle a delicate spiderweb. The setting is tranquil and utterly majestic. 
Over the brow of a distant hill, a pair of brilliant light beams scintillate in an etheral ballet. 
Numerous small animals gather to behold this wonder. They stand on the hillcrest, staring down as if at the Nativity. 
Squirrels, quail, hedgehogs, mice, pheasants and badgers, natural enemies untied by the radiant LIGHT. 
A magnificent stag watches, numbers of tiny songbirds perched in his branching antlers. 
1A EXTERIOR FOREST NIGHT 
PULL BACK: from the hilltop, through ferns and brambles to a steep embankment where umbrella-sized toadstools cluster. 
A snarling face APPEARS under a mushroom cap. This is BLIX a brigand goblin hunter. Clad in decrepit armor and slung with savage weapons, he is a terrifying figure. 
Blix WHISTLES. The SOUND is unexpectedly lovely, a nightingale's call. 
Further back, three other goblins return the BIRDCALL. They bristle with weaponry. POX is a pig-faced fop wearing tattered lace and flithy brocade. Tiny BLUNDER and TIC are both masked by grotesque helmets. Swarms of gnats drone above their hidden heads. They creep forward to join Blix. 
1B GOBLIN'S POV : HILLTOP 
The distant animals silhouetted by dazzling LIGHT. 
1C EXTERIOR FOREST NIGHT 
Blix signals an advance and the goblins creep through the forest towards the hilltop. 
A moth lands on a twig two feet from Tic's head. He turns. His incredibly sticky tongue uncoils from within the helmet seizing the moth and retracting with it, quick as a flash. 
As the goblins near the hilltop, the fantastic LIGHT gradually illuminates their hideous features. A tiny mouse runs out of the eye-slits on Blunder's helmet, circles the crest, and runs back in on the other side. 
Blix signals silently for the other goblins to spread out. 
The goblins crawl separately through the underbrush. 
Pox comes snout to snout with a wild piglet. Terrified, the little shoat SQUEALS and scampers off. 
2 DELETED 
2A CLOSE : ANIMALS 
Alerted by the NOISE, they face the impending threat. The startled animals run for cover down the hillside. 
3 DELETED 
3A EXTERIOR FOREST NIGHT 
Blix charges forward, brandishing his crossbow. 
BLIX: Kill. . . . ! 
Blix runs over the top of the hill and down into the gully beyond, closely followed by Tic, Pox, and Blunder. Brilliant clumps of forget-me-nots are everywhere, like disgarded jewels. 
3B GOBLIN'S POV : DISTANT FOREST 
The pair of shining LIGHT BEAMS race away between the trees. 
4 DELETED 
5 DELETED 
5A EXTERIOR FOREST NIGHT 
The goblins watch the LIGHT BEAMS disappear. Blix GROWLS in frustration. 
BLUNDER(musing): . . . . Fast as a hound dog with his ass on fire. . 
Blunder spots a SHINING silver hair caught on the bark. He reaches up and plucks it free. 
POX: What's that . . . . ? L-l-let me see, old chap. 
BLUNDER: No! It's mine! 
Blunder hides the hair behind his back, but Pox quickly grabs the other end. 
POX: Give it to m-m-m-me! 
Both goblins pull on the hair. Miraculously, it does not break, but stretches between them like spun steel. 
BLUNDER: Turn loose, anus features! 
POX: Hard cheese! 
A furious tug of war. Pox pulls his knife and tries unsuccessfully to cut the hair. 
BLUNDER: It's mine you rectum! Mine! Mine! 
Blix marches up and furiously bangs their heads together. Pox and Blunder fall dazed to the ground. 
Blix holds the silver hair shining above his head and studies it. 
BLIX: Disgusting and pure, like a prayer. . .. There be magic in this hair. The beast ran off, faster and faster. We must take this to our Master. 
6 EXTERIOR VAST LANDSCAPE NIGHT 
An incredible landscape, fantastically contoured hills rise above the monnbright mist. The four goblins dismount, tie up their devil steeds, and disappear over the brow of a hill. 
Squirrels, rabbits, and mice dart fearfully for cover. Birds flock to their nests. Only the night creatures, the wolves, weasels, and owls perk up thier ears to listen. 
11 INTERIOR GREAT TREE NIGHT 
The three goblins cower terrified among the gnarled roots. 
BLUNDER: Now what. . . . ? 
BLIX: We sit. . . . We wait. . . . That be our fate! 
11A EXTERIOR GREAT TREE NIGHT 
The goblins wait up on the upper platform of the ruined castle. Blix sits apart from the others, staring out across at the bog. The light of a campfire casts their shifting shadows against the huge trunk of the hollow tree. 
Blix plays with the silver hair. 
BLIX(to himself): Moving silent like the breeze. Soft as shadows, still as trees, Darkness be in all we sees. He lives in silence, he lives in fire, He lives in all that's dark and dire. 
A mysterious floating shape approaches out of the distance. It is a black cloak, wafting through the mist like an airborne manta ray. 
12 EXTERIOR BOG NIGHT 
The flying cloak wraps about the statue of the skeletal fiddler. The wind presses it tight, revealing the skull through the cloth. 
Suddenly, the statue's head turns to look at the great tree. 
13 EXTERIOR GREAT TREE NIGHT 
Blix walks to to the edge of the platform, peering into the night. 
BLIX: Look in the gloom, search out the tomb. That be where you find our sire. 
The pedestal is empty. The statue of the fidder has vanished! 
Blix gets down on his knees, genuflecting, toward the the open bog. 
The black shadow of the LORD OF DARKNESS falls across him. 
Darkness towers over the ruined castle platform, a huge horned figure drpaed in bacl cloth. An awesome silence ensues. 
Blunder and Pox kneel, heaping ashes and dirt upon thier heads. 
BLIX: Hail O great One. . . . divine and dark! Strong like a lion, swift like a shark. 
Blix offers the silver hair up to Darkness. 
BLIX: Though I'm not worthy of the task Great Lord, I found this for your amusment. 
Blunder leaps to his feet and grabs the hair from Blix. 
BLUNDER: Don't listen to them mealy-mouthed lies boss. . . . I'm the one who found it. . . . Me! Blunder the Bold! 
There is a bight FLASH OF LIGHT. Blunder HOWLS with pain. 
Blunder stares at his arm in dismay. His hand is gone, magically replaced by a grotesque birdclaw. 
BLUNDER(stunned): Thank you, Lordship . . . . 
Blunder experimently clenches and unclenches his new bird claw. 
POX: Quite stylish, actually. . . . 
Darkness dangles the shining silver hair in front of him. 
DARKNESS: Where. . . . ? 
BLIX: In the woods, six leagues back, 'Tween Twin Oaks and the Dragon's Track. 
DARKNESS: Did my bold hunters chance to see quarry which cast this spoor? 
BLIX: I stalked it, Sire, but much too slow, What beast it be I do not know. 
DARKNESS: This hair is from an angel of light. . . It comes this way rarely. . . I must have this creature! 
BLIX: Oh Divine Dark One, teach us how to catch this creature. 
POX: Your instruction would be m-m-most ap-p-preciated. 
BLUNDER: Amen! I wants to learn! I craves knowledge! 
DARKNESS: No trap of yours will work. . . . There is only lure for such disgusting goddness. . . .one bait which never fails. . . . 
BLIX: Name the bait, Lord. . . . 
DARKNESS: Innoncence! 
14 EXTERIOR COTTAGE MEADOW DAY 
A beautiful flower-spangled meadow alive with songbirds. 
Baby rabbits frolic in the tall grass where industrious squirrels forage for acorns and nuts. 
A delicate fawn gambols under the watchful eye of the doe. Clouds of multi-hued butterflies swirl overhead. 
Waist-deep in flower, a young princess skips SINGING across the meadow. Her name is LILI. She wears splendid brocades and carries a bouquet wrapped in a lace napkin. Like these blossoms, she is beautiful and fresh and innocent. 
Tiny birds fly down and land on her head and shoulders. She laughs as a warbling wren takes a seed from her lips. 
LILI(singing): Come down sparrow, sing me good morning. Rise up sun, light the arch of the sky. Living river, turn light to diamonds, When I look in my true love's eyes. 
Lili runs towards a distant thatched-roofed cottage. 
15 EXTERIOR BOULDER AT EDGE OF WOODS DAY 
Jack pokes in the bouquet and discovers the stolen tart. He stuffs it immediately into his mouth. 
JACK: Mmmmmmm. . . . 
LILI: Sweet? 
JAY: Sweets from the sweet. 
JACK: I know someone sweeter. 
Lili blushes. 
19 EXTERIOR ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST DAY 
Concealed behind the trees, Blix, Pox and Blunder watch the Green Man and the Princess wander down a meandering path. 
Pox picks a spider from his web, pops it in his mouth, and crunches it down with a happy smile. 
19A EXTERIOR MEANDERING PATH DAY 
Several birds perch on Jack's head and shoulders. Squirrels, rabbits and hedgehogs play about his feet. Jack feeds them nuts and berries from his pouch, answering their chatter expertedly. Jack understands the language of all wild creatures. 
When a frisky wren flies warbling overhead, Lili hesitantly returns its call. 
JACK: That was very good. . . .just right. 
LILI: Teach me rabbit like you promised. 
JACK: Rabbit is much harder than wren. 
LILI: Let me try. I'm a very good student. . . . My father thinks I'm brilliant. . . 
Lili toys with the silver madallion pendant she wears, causing reflected sunlight to shine in Jack's eyes. 
LILI(cont): See how brilliant I am! 
JACK(laughing): Stop it. . . . ! I can't see! 
LILI: Don't I dazzle you with my wisdom? 
Lili seems to glow with sunlight. Jack stares at her, rapt with love. 
JACK: Much more than wisdom dazzles me. 
Lili LAUGHS and hangs her madallion around his neck. 
LILI: Then teach me rabbit. 
JACK: Not today. . . . There's something really special I promised to show you. 
LILI(delighted): Oh, Jack. Do you mean it? 
JACK: If it pleases you. 
LILI: More than anything! 
JACK: This is their season. They won't pass here again for a long, long time. . . . If you want to see them, you must do everything I tell you. 
LILI: I swear. . . on my honour! 
JACK: I'm taking you to a very special place. . . it's sort of sacred. Nobody but me knows where it is, and, well. . . . 
LILI(impatient): What? Tell me! 
Jack unwraps the lace napkin from Lili's bouquet. 
JACK: You'll have to wear a blindfold. 
LILI(coyly): Don't you trust me, Jack? 
JACK: I'll always trust you, Lili. . . . 
20 EXTERIOR FOREST PATH, GLADE TO STREAM DAY 
Jack holds Lili's hand, leading her blindfolded along a path through the woods. Distant thunder RUMBLES. 
JACK: Storm's coming. . . . 
LILI: Who cares? Haven't you a cosy place to hide? 
JACK: Many places. . . .None fit for a princess. . . . 
LILI: In these woods you are the prince, Jack. . . . I am only a pauper here. . . . 
Jack turns to face a radiantly smiling Lili. He bends towards her, closer and closer, and, for a moment, seems about to steal a kiss. She waits, smiling, sensing what is about to happen. In the end, Jack's innoncence and timidity get the best of him and he turns away. Without his knowledge Lili lifts a corner of the blindfold and mischievously peeks. 
20A EXTERIOR BEHIND A TREE NEAR THE PATH DAY 
The three goblin peer around a mossy trunk. 
BLUNDER: Yuck! Did you see what he was gonna do? Makes me want to puke! 
BLIX: I swear by all the bats above, Nothing's quite so foul as love! 
21 EXTERIOR UNICORN STREAM AND GLADE DAY 
A sun-glided amphithtre within the darker confines of the forest. Sparkling like a ribbon of diamonds, a stream flows down the middle. 
Jack leads Lili out of the woods and unties the napkin from around her eyes. 
LILI(aewstruck): Oh, Jack. . . .! It's magic! 
21A EXTERIOR STREAMSIDE SHUBBERY DAY 
Across the stream, the mare paces back and forth, obviously agitated. 
27 EXTERIOR BEHIND THE BOULDER DAY 
Blix pulls a long black flute from his quiver. He takes a dried hornet from a black snail-shell with a hinged lid and slips it into his flute, aiming the instrument like a blowgun. 
BLUNDER: Steady....take your time.... Don't miss... 
Blix silences the foolish golbin with a ferocious scowl. His cheeks puff. There is a soft PHUT of expelled breath. 
28 EXTERIOR CENTRE OF CLEARING DAY 
The poisened hornet sails the air and strikes the hornet on the haunch. 
Stung, the unicorn bolts through the clearing, disappearing into the undergrowth with the mare hard on his heels. 
The Princess stands be confused and bewildered. 
Distant THUNDER disturbs the tranquility. 
Jack rushes to Lili's side. 
LILI: Oh, Jack, it was so lovely... like a dream. 
JACK(angry): You're lucky it wasn't a nightmare! 
LILI: Don't be such a scold.... Come, I'll chase your fears away. 
The Princess takes Jack by the hand and leads him from the clearing. 
29 EXTERIOR FOREST (UNICORN HUNT) DAY 
The unicorns plunge through brambles and fern clumps. Leaping a deadfall log, the stallion stumbles. He struggles to his feet and continues running. 
The three goblins gallop pell-mell on their devilish steeds. There is nothing comical about them now. 
30 EXTERIOR RING POND DAY 
Jack and Lili sit atop a high promontory jutting over a crystalline pond. 
LILI: Sweet William did a-hunting go, In the wood where faeries dwell. From dawn to dusk roamed he to and fro, Lost, O lost, all under thier spell. 
31 EXTERIOR FOREST (UNICORN HUNT) DAY 
The stallion stagger, his gait increasingly unstable as the poisen takes effect. 
The mare nuzzle his flank where the envenomed hornet struck. It is a virulent ound, red and swollen. 
The war-like SHOUTING of the goblins grows even closer. 
The unicorns pause at a fork in the trail. The stallion motions with his head. Sadly, the mare compreheads and flees down the divergent path to safetly. 
The stallion stands his ground. When the three goblin hunters gallop towards him, he turns and limps into the woods. 
32 EXTERIOR RING POND DAY 
Jack lies beside Lili, listening raptly to her poem. 
LILI(reciting): Came he at last to where bluebells grow, He heard them ring, 'tis true to tell. He lay him down and did not know The flower's sound was his own death knell. 
And while he slept came teh lady fair, And gathered him up behind her saddle. Now, all young hunters of bluebells beware Sweet William rode straight through the gate of Hell. 
Jack is lost in Lili's smile. 
JACK: When I get to heaven, I know just how the angels will sound. 
LILI(enjoying it): Do you flatter all the girls like that, Jack? 
JACK(embaressed) It's the truth. 
Lili kisses Jack sweetly. He doesn't respond. 
LILI(smiling): Are you afraid of my kiss? 
JACK: I'm afraid you'll break my heart. 
LILI: Then still your heart... You are dear to me as life itself. 
JACK: Only because I amuse you...Like some trained bear! 
LILI: That's not true! I do love you, Jack. You must believe me! 
JACK: And if I so....no good can come from it. I am only a Green Man, without land or title...no name or wealth to bring you. 
The Princess her golden ring on and off her finger. 
LILI: What does it matter. I don't care about any of that. 
JACK: But it does matter....! If not now....Someday. What about when the time comes for you to marry? 
LILI: I want to marry you. 
JACK: That's impossible! 
LILI: Not if it's what you really want, Jack. 
Lili shows Jack her ring. 
LILI(cont): Don't you wish this was our wedding ring? 
JACK: What if I say yes...? Will my wish come true? 
LILI: It is my right as a princess to set a challenge for my suitors. 
SOUNDS of SNORTING and SHOUTING come from outside Lili scratches the frost off the window pane in the sleeping alcove. 
42 LILI'S POV : THROUGH WINDOW 
The noisy goblins ride up on a makeshift sleigh of lashed animal bones. They stop outside and clamber out. Blix has the alicorn tucked under his arm. 
43 INTERIOR COTTAGE DAY 
Terrified, Lili runs wildly across the cottage and clims the ladder to the loft. 
43A INTERIOR COTTAGE LOFT DAY 
Barrels and chests are stored here. Cured bacon and hams hang from the rafters. Lili hides in a corner with several twig brooms and a butter churn. She wraps herself in an old quilt snatched from an open trunk. 
Snows blows in through a hole in the roof, covering the floor timbers. Three-inch gaps between the planks permit a view into the cottage interior. 
43B LILI'S POV : BETWEEN PLANKS 
The front door slams open and the goblins stumble laughing inside. 
BLIX: Mortal world turned to ice, Here be goblins' paradise! 
43C INTERIOR COTTAGE DAY 
Blunder sinks his handaxe onto the kitchen table as he saunters past the frozen tarts. 
BLUNDER: Lots to eat! 
Pox runs forward to the cradle and seizes the frozen baby, baring his tusks for the feast. 
POX: I s-s-simply adore m-m-milk-fed meat! 
BLUNDER: What're you....? Some kinda animal? 
Horrified, Lili GASPS (OS) in the loft. 
The goblins cock their ears to listen. Pox SNARLS and drops the baby back in the cradle. 
Curious, Blunder starts up the ladder to the loft, but changes his mind half-way, more interested in what Blix is doing. 
BLIX: Why eat cold? It's better hot! 
Blix points the alicorn at the frozen stewpot on the hearth. It begins to steam and bubble, magically boiling without a fire underneath. 
POX: Am-m-mazing! How did you d-d-d-do that, old, ch-ch-chap? 
Blix is equally surprised by the alicorn's power. He CACKLES and aims it at the clock on the mantle. 
The clock's hand spin wildly around backwards, the carved figures darting in and out at fives times their normal speed. 
Blix launches on an orgy of destruction, waving the alicorn like a magic wand. Plates shatter, the cradle rocks. furniture topples, Toby mugs come WAILING alive, painted wooden toys dance and caper. 
The goblins SHRIEK with impish joy. 
43D INTERIOR LOFT (FROZEN) DAY 
Lili watches the havoc through the gaps in the floor. 
Blix points the alicorn straight up. Snow flies wildly around the crouching Princess. 
The broom and the butter churn begin a mad dance across the crowded loft. 
It is all the Princess can do to keep from screaming. 
43E INTERIOR COTTAGE (FROZEN) DAY 
As a grand finale, Blix points at Nell's frozen figure, blowing her skirts above her waist. 
POX(languidly): M-m-most amusing Blix....most terribly amusing. 
BLUNDER: This is sure our lucky day. Killed that ugly one-horn dead as a cowplop on a birthday cake! 
BLIX: Prattle, prattle like a priest! (pointing to himself) It was me who shoot the beast! 
POX: Without the p-p-princess for bait, you'd never gotten close.... B-b-beauty brought the b-b-beast to bay. 
BLUNDER: She's so sweet....I could eat her brains like jam! 
43F INTERIOR LOFT (FROZEN) DAY 
Lili slumps against the wall, aghast at what she's just overheard. 
43G INTERIOR COTTAGE DAY 
Blunder and Pox fill a sack with frozen tarts. 
POX: I'd like such her b-b-bones! 
Blix points the alicorn at the cottage door. It flies open with a CRASH. 
BLIX: Better hurry! Can't be late! 
Blix marches out of the door. The other two goblins follow, darrging their sacks of tarts. 
BLUNDER: When we deliver that horn, Pox ol' buddy, Darkness gonna give us a humongous big reward. 
Blunder and Pox leave, slamming the door behind them. 
After a long pause, Lili creeps sobbing down the ladder from the loft. 
LILI: Oh, God.... God.... 
The Princess stumbles across the cottage towards Nell. 
Jack runs to the man, thinking himself saved.. 
Jack discovers the man is frozen, like the bird. His initial shock gives way to releif. The man is his salvation after all. 
Quickly, he unties the stranger's travel bags and cloak. 
JACK(cont): God rest your soul.... I know you won't mind if I borrow your things. 
Jack wraps himself in the claok and finds a tinder box in the travel bag. 
He scrapes together a pile of twigs, striking sparks with the flint and steel to start them smouldering. 
45 DELETED : TRANSPOSED TO 46D 
46 EXTERIOR FAERIE CIRCLE NIGHT 
A campfire blazes. Jack sleeps beside a tiny fire, shivering under his new cloak. 
A tiny glowing LIGHT streaks out of the woods. It circles around Jack. The LIGHT touches the fire and it BLAZES up like a bonfire, waking Jack. 
JACK: What....? 
46A JACK'S POV : LIGHT 
Jack stares at the radiant buble hanging above him. He sees a tiny woman-child with delicate dragonfly wings trapped inside. This is LUNA. 
JACK (cont)(OS): Who're you? 
46B EXTERIOR FAERIE CIRCLE NIGHT 
Luna ZOOMS off into the treetops. 
Jack grabs a flaming brand and jumps to his feet. 
JACK (cont): Who's there....? 
Watching him through the drifting smoke in GUMP, an elf no more than the waist high. Slightly built, he is near-naked in spite of the cold. His face is that of a child, yet his eyes shine with a wisdom centuries old. 
GUMP(smiling mysteriously): Here you be a forest child and not know the Gump.... 
JACK: Gump, is it? 
GUMP: Aye, Jack.... Honeythorn Gump at your service..... 
The air is filled with frenzied CLICKS and SNAPS: stones tapping, stick's rubbing, logs being thumped, etc. 
Numbers of green-glowing eyes stare at Jack out of the shadows. 
JACK (frightened): How d'you know my name? 
GUMP: How does a migrating swallow know the way south in winter....? Or a spawning salmon find the tiny freshet of his birth from the black cold depths of the mysterious sea....? I know everything, Jack! 
JACK: Everything....? Why has this happened? Why is it winter now? 
GUMP: I'd be a powerful wizard indeed could I answer.... (shrewdly): Suppose you tell me , Jack. 
Jack in uncomfortable. 
JACK: Me? How can I do that? 
GUMP: You know these woods as well as any elf.... Did you not see something odd today? Any strange spirits? Did nothing untoward happen? 
JACK: No....well.... I took Lili to see the unicorns..... 
GUMP (furious): You did what? 
Numbers of elves and faeries appear out of the dark woods. They come in all sizes, from sprites no larger than squirrels to plump hobmen as big as small children. 
BROWN TOM is a plump, tipsy leprechaun, draped with pots and pans like a tinker; SCREWBALL, a tiny pixie wearing an ill-fitting cap and garments tassle with flowers. 
FAERIES (whispering in chorus): What....? Codfish and cockles....! Never....! Pewterpots and.... pumpkins....! Poo-poo pudding....! Doo-doo dumplings....! Shit-willy whatnot....! 
GUMP: Silence! 
The whipering stops. All eyes are on Jack. He writhes with guilt under thier scrunity. 
JACK(deepling ashamed): Oh God, she touched him.... 
A GROAN rises from the crowd of faeries. They are outraged. Gump is the maddest of all. His face darkens. His eyes glow. He trembles with banshee fury. 
GUMP: Touched it! A mortal laid hands on a unicorn? 
BROWN TOM: Bad....terrible bad! 
JACK: We meant no wrong. 
GUMP (screaming): What was it you did mean, Jack! 
JACK: Nothing.... 
GUMP (cold and hard): Nothing, he calls it! 
JACK: I wanted to share something special with her. 
GUMP: Well.... I have something now to share with you....a lively reel to warm your bones! 
Gump magically pulls a violen out of thin air. 
JACK: I'm in no mood for dancing. 
GUMP(screaming with wrath): Squawk! Squawk! No more talk.... Do you think you can upset the order of the universe and not pay the price? 
Brown Tom produces ancient bag pipes, Screwball a tambourine. The other wee folk tune up an incredible variety of oddly-shaped instryemnts : seashell trumpets, acorn cellos, gossets, serpentines, blossom-bell horns, bone flutes, all manner of drums and rattles. 
JACK: Is there nothing you can do? 
GUMP: If you want more tricks, I'm your man.... but, for big questions, you must go elsewhere. 
JACK: But don't you care what's happened? 
GUMP: Course we care.... What good's the world locked in a season of death? No folks to scare on a summer's night.... 
BROWN TOM: No babies to tickle.... 
SCREWBALL: No lovers to tease.... 
GUMP: No more spells to cast....Does that sound like an enjoyable prospect? 
JACK: We must find the answer! 
GUMP: That we must. But first, we better see that no harm's come to the unicorns. 
SCREWBALL: I sadly fear the worst.... 
Gumps claps his hands and everyone is magically holding luminous flower lanterns. 
46C EXTERIOR DEEP FOREST NIGHT 
Seen from a distance, the lantern-lit faerie procession glows like foxfire between the massive trees. 
46D EXTERIOR SNOW (LILI TRACKS GOBLINS) NIGHT 
Princess Lili tuns swiftly between the frozen trees, following the tracks of the goblins. The quilt is torn, her hair dishevelled. She pauses at the top of a small, steep hill. 
The tracks of the goblins' sleigh pass below. 
Lili jumps from the hilltop, leaving the quilt floating behind like a discarded skin. It is an incrediable leap. 
She lands with the sureness of a wild woodland creature and runs off, hair streaming behind, following the trail of the sled. 
47 EXTERIOR UNICORN DEATH ARENA NIGHT 
The faerie procession moves out of the woods onto the frozen meadow. 
FAERIES(singing together): What can you do when there's Nothing to be done? Sing a little song And have fun, fun, fun.... 
The silhouette of the unicorn is glimpsed in the glow of the faerie lanterns. 
Led by Jack, the faeries run towards the recumbent stallion. 
Wisp stoops and picks up an arrow dropped by the goblins. 
GUMP: This is goblins' work.... Powerful demons are agaisnt us! 
Jack kneels sadly beside the ice-glazed unicorn. 
The SOUND of CRASHING HOOFBEATS alerts the faeries as the mare unicorn thunders out of the trees. 
BROWN TOM: Take cover, laddies! 
The faeries dive for protection. Only Jack stands his ground. 
The mare charges straight at Jack. He is knocked to his knees as she gallops past. 
The unicorn wheels about. Jack scrambles to his feet. 
She charges again, skidding to a stop on the frozen grass. Her alicorn is aimed straight at Jack's throat. 
GUMP: Run, Jack! 
JACK: The fault was mine. I owe her my life. 
GUMP: Nobly spoken, lad, and nobility is her gift in return. 
The mare makes a soft NOISE deep in her throat. It is a cross between whale song and the cooing of doves. 
Jack responds in kind, imitating the sound exactly. 
SCREWBALL: What's he saying? What's it mean? 
BROWN TOM (shrugging): Search me.... I speak some rabbit, but not a word of unicorn. 
The unicorn continues, a SOUND as close to music as anything in nature. Jck listens intently and answers her. 
GUMP: Come on Jack, don't keep us in the dark. 
JACK: The dark is where we'll stay.... We're cursed. All warmth and light was lost when the stallion died. 
BROWN TOM: Is there naught we can do? 
JACK: We must get the alicorn back. Only then will the world return to normal. 
GUMP: And how do faeries fight a demon? 
JACK: She says we're to find a champion.... a mortal, bold of heart and pure in spirit. 
SCREWBALL: Look....! Look....! 
Screwball points to the mare's hoofprints in the snow. Tiny wild flowers spring to life within each indentation. 
JACK: That is the warmth of her soul. Not even death's icy hand can stop it! 
SCREWBALL: Little good her soul'll do us now. 
BROWN TOM: Screwball's right. Where we gonna find a champion when every mortal can swing a sword is froze stiff as an icicle? 
GUMP: Don't give up so quick, lads. (feeling Jack's arm) You sure you're mortal? 
Suddenly, with the pure clarity of a BELL CHIME, the presence of DAYLIGHT is detected. 
The reflected glow of the coming dawn tinges the ground and casts it luminence over Darkness and the goblins. 
DARKNESS (cont) (writhing): What is this light...? 
Beams of rising sunlight advance down the tree trunks. 
Darkness recoils, wrapping his flaming cloak about him. 
DARKNESS (cont): You killed the final unicorn.... Is this not true? 
Blix and Pox exchange guilty looks. 
BLIX: This is true.... 
POX: Undeniably t-t-true, Lord. 
Darkness is on to them. He points with the alicorn. 
DARKNESS: You lie! Here is dawn! 
POX: Well.... almost t-t-true.... ess-s-sentially true.... 
BLIX: That stallion is dead, dead as dreams, dead as legend.... 
DARKNESS: OUT WITH IT! 
Sunlight is half-way to the ground. Darkness shrinks, shrivelling like a dying ember. 
POX: But.... but.... the m-m-mare still lives... 
DARKNESS: If even one unicorn walks the earth, my power is not complete.... 
BLIX: Just a female.... She has no power... The ground grows very light. Darkness melts into the campfire. 
DARKNESS: Only the power of creation....? Get that female....! I command you.... In the name of Darkness.... 
Sunlight strikes the ground. Darkness is gone! His arm holding the alicorn aloft the fire is the last to disappear. 
Lili backs silently into the shadows surrrounding the Great Tree. 
49 EXTERIOR FOREST PATH DAY 
Lili runs straight into a driving blizzard. A distant SOUND alerts her and she pauses to listen. 
It is Jack and the faeries, SINGING. Jack's voice carries above the others. 
JACK & THE FAERIES (os): When times are hard and things look bad, Don't feel blue and don't feel sad.... 
A look of astonished joy comes over Lili's face. As the SOUND of singing FADES, she runs towards it, calling eagerly. 
LILI: Jack....! Ja-aack! 
50 EXTERIOR PATH TO GUMP'S CAVE DAY 
Jack and the faeries troop march through the blizzard, all SINGING merrily. 
JACK & THE FAERIES (singing): If your down, wearin' a frown, That's the time to dance like a clown! 
Jack hears something in the distance and stops to listen. 
LILI (very faint) (os): Ja-aack.... Ja-aack.... 
JACK (bewildered): Lili....? 
The SOUND of her distant call is erased by the howling storm. Jack sadly decides it was a trick of the wind and hurries to catch up with the others. 
51 EXTERIOR FOREST PATH DAY 
Lili stops running. There is nothing but the wailing wind. 
LILI (softly): Jack....? Oh, Jack.... 
A solitary tear starts from her eyes, only to freeze on her cheek like a diamond beauty spot. 
LILI (cont): Please God.... help me! 
Lili drops sobbing to her knees. Through her grief, she sees the unicorn's track in the snow, each hoofprint gay with tiny blooming flowers. 
Her courage restored, Lili follows this meandering trail of burgeoning life through the forest. 
52 EXTERIOR ENTRANCE TO GUMP'S CAVE DAY 
Gumps leads the way a huge BOULDER lodged uner the roots of a giant tree. 
GUMP (proudly): Here's my home, Jack.... What d'you think of that for a front door? 
Jack thinks Gump is pulling his leg. 
JACK (in jest): Be some job in getting it open. 
GUMP: Think you so? 
Gump WHISTLES. Immediately, two eyes blink open on the front of the boulder, and he is seen to have facial features. 
BOULDER: Morning', Gump.... 
The Boulder stands on a pair of tiny legs and waddles forth from under the tree roots, REVEALING the entrance to a cavern. 
He promptly trips and rolls over and over in the snows, his tiny stone feet kicking wildly in the air. 
GUMP (bowing): After you, Jack.... 
VOICE: You hold the world in your grasp.... Supreme power belongs to you... yet your triumph is meaningless! 
DARKNESS: Meaningless? 
VOICE: What do you gain from it? What pleasure comes from ruling a pack of imps and goblins....? Souls already black.... This innocent creature fascinates you because only she can appreciate the enormity of your achievement. 
DARKNESS: I'll take her then! 
VOICE: A hollow victory! She remembers the world as it was, when she loves your new order you will triumph! Woo her.... win her.... break her spirit.... 
DARKNESS: Thank you, Father.... Your wisdom is ever my guide. 
VOICE: Remember.... She must desire you.... nothing else matters! 
65E EXTERIOR GREAT TREE DAY 
Jack and the faeries step ashore on the island. Gump makes a mystical sign with his hands. 
JACK: What's that? 
GUMP: For our protection, Jack. You must be ready.... Remember, Darkness is a liar.... a treacherous fiend! Don't listen to him. Never believe what you see..... 
JACK: He won't fool me. 
GUMP: Don't be so sure! No human has ever set foot in this place before! 66 INTERIOR GREAT TREE DAY 
Jack and the faeries stare up at the massive horn embedded in the inner tree. 
Screwball starts to climb towards it. 
SCREWBALL: What a nice big trumpet....! Bet it sounds louder than anything.... 
Gump hauls him back down by the seat of his pants. 
GUMP: Don't touch it! Our lives are lost if it blows! 
Jack finds an opening hidden between the roots of the inner tree. 
JACK: In here! I've found a passage! 
Jack drops inside. 
66A INTERIOR GREAT HALL DAY 
The moment Jack enters the inner tree, a deep TREMOR reverberates through the subterranean Castle of Darkness. 
Draped in shadows before the fire, the Dark Lord looks up at this disturbance. 
DARKNESS (to the fire): I feel a presence....! Some power invades my sanctity.... 
VOICE (from the flames): Every wolf suffers fleas.... 'tis easy enough to scratch! 
The flames surge out towards Darkness, embracing him. 
67 INTERIOR TINY ANTECHAMBER DAY 
Like the catacombs of Paris, the walls are decorated with bones and human skulls. At each corner of the open ceiling is a carved demonic head. Jack and the faeries stand looking up. 
GUMP(gloomily): The decor of death.... 
BROWN TOM: Tells you somthing 'bout him what lives here. 
SCREWBALL: It's a dead end.... 
Jack searches along the ossuary walls. 
JACK: Doesn't make sense.... Check the walls. There must be some sort of secret key.... 
Screwball doesn't join the other faeries in the search. He is attracted by several round stone balls lying in the rubble. Picking up three with a happy grin, he begins to juggle. 
SCREWBALL: One-two-three.... fidde-dee-dee.... 
Gump sees what Screwball is doing and flies into a rage. 
GUMP: Screwball! Drop those this minute! 
Screwball tosses the balls carelessly over his shoulder. One lands in the stone cornice near the ceiling and rolls along, gathering momentum as it passes through the open mouths of each gargoyle. 
The balls disappears into the mouth of the final gargoyle. It is swallowed with an emphatic GULP. 
All at once, the roof slides shut above. 
BROWN TOM(alarmed): Newt-finger marmalade! 
The floor pulls suddenly open and they all plummet SCREAMING into empty space. Luna circles, a dot of light above tthe bottomless pit. 
LUNA (wee voice): Oh, dear.... Oh, dear... 
The tiny faerie whirls in a blur of indecision before streaking down into the dark opening after her falling friends. 
68 INTERIOR CAVE CHUTE DAY 
Like prisoners on a fairground helter-skelter, Jack and the faeries spin down a seemingly endless curvinbg chute. 
GUMP(singing): When times're hard and thing look bad, Don't feel blue and don't feel sad.... 
JACK: How can you sing at a time like this? 
GUMP: Can you think of anything better to do? 
They hurtle through festooned cobwebs, stirring up smokey clouds of ancient dust. 
69 INTERIOR CAGE AND ALCOVE DAY 
LUNA/LILI: Oh, but it is.... I'm warm and alive and happy to be in your arms. 
Jack is nearly enchanted, but after a delicious moment, he pushes away. 
JACK: I can't do it....! This is faerie glamour! 
A brilliant aura of faerie LIGHT envelops Luna/Lili and she TRANSFORMS into her true winged-form LUNA(bitterly): You....! You....mortal! I could vex you! Dance you life away! 
JACK: Threats can't make you love you. Human hearts don't work that way. 
LUNA: What care I for human heart? Soft and spiritless as porridge! A faerie's heart beats fierce and free. 
There is a furious pytotechnic whirlwind and, in an instant, Luna returns to a tiny dot of LIGHT. 
JACK: Luna....? 
Without an answer, Luna flies out between the iron bars. 
JACK(cont) (to the faeries): I.... didn't mean to hurt her. 
GUMP(scornful): Your fine senseibilities have left us here to rot. 
The SOUND of heavy footsteps approaches, accompanied by rough, tuneless SINGING. 
COOK(os): ....this li'l piggie went to market.... anudder li'l pigge got eat.... pig-meat pie, l'l piggie die.... 
BLUNDER: Oh, no! He's coming...! Hide! Hide! Hide! 
Blunder conceals himself under a pile of straw. A deformed shadow is cast across the cage. 
SCREWBALL: Blunder's got the right idea! 
Screwball hides in the straw. Jack and the other immediately do the same. 
A fiendish demon COOK opens the cage door. He is ten feet tall and unspeakably ugly. He peers blindly inside, sniffing the air with his hideous nose. 
COOK: ....pig-pig-pig... The Cook gropes inside the cage. 
The Cook reaches deep into the straw pile in teh corner and grabs Blunder. 
BLUNDER: Help....! Lemme go...? Turn me loose, you tub o' guts! 
The cook hauls Blunder out, kicking and screaming. He locks the cage abd stumps away. 
BLUNDER(cont): I hope I give you heart-burn! 
After a bit, the faeries and Jack peer up out of the straw. 
SCREWBALL(woefully): Fricasseed faeries, the lot of us.... 
BROWN TON: Lambs to the slaughter.... 
Jack draws his sword. 
JACK: Not without a fight! 
Transformed back to full-size, Luna tip-toes into the alcove outside the cage, her hands coyly behind her. 
GUMP: Luna....! 
LUNA(maliciously): You look like mourners at your own funeral. 
GUMP(angry): Come back to dance on our graves! 
LUNA: I'd gladly frolic on Jack's.... 
She LAUGHS and holds up a large iron key. 
LUNA(cont): ....but this cage shan't be your tomb! 
Luna tosses the key in to Gump. Instantly, she reduces to a tiny dot of LIGHT and flies out of the alcove. 
GUMP: Well done! 
Gump unlocks the barred door and they all clamber out. Screwball steps on Brown Tom's head in his eagerness. 
SCREWBALL: Lemme outta this stink hole! 
BROWN TOM: Mind you bleeding foot! 
GUMP: Shhhh! 
Jack is the last of all. 
JACK: Keep behind me in case there's trouble. 
Sword in hand, Jack ;eads the faeries out of the alcove into the kitchen. 
70 INTERIOR KITCHEN DAY 
Huge ovens belch fire and smoke. The vast hearth blazes. Like the lower reaches of Hell, the Dark Lord's kitchen is a place where all hope is abandoned. 
Jack and the faeries creep through the brimstone haze. 
BROWN TOM: Terrible sight for a sober man to see.... 
JACK: Quiet! 
The demon Cooks blocks the way, chopping meat with a montrous cleaver, A SECOND COOK, every bit as terrifying, SNORES by the hearth. Trussed to a spit, Blunder hangs upside-down nearby. 
Jack motions the faeries on. The blind Cook turns them, sniffing the air. 
COOK: Whut be there? 
Darkness stands over the fallen girl, his heartbeat pulsing like muffled thunder. Something almost like a smile creases his hideous features as he rolls a lock of Lili's hair between his clawed fingers. 
The Princess blinks and opens her eyes. She is horrified to find Darkness kneeling over her and frantically tries to get away. 
DARKNESS: Do not be afraid, lady.... 
Lili GASPS like a stranded fish. She is catatonic with fear. 
DARKNESS (cont): I mean you no harm. 
Darkness offers the Princess his hand. 
DARKNESS (cont): How like you my gifts...? Does the gown not please you? Come.... tell me.... 
Lili's terror renders her speechless. 
DARKNESS (cont): The colour is most suitable... We sanctify the death of the old world and the birth of a new order.... You are the guest of honour. 
Lili WEEPS and tugs at the black dress. 
LILI: ....of dishonour...! Take this away.... Please! I beg you! 
Darkness advances on Lili. The slow kettldrum THROB of his heart underscores his words. 
DARKNESS: Your soul in like some dark nectar.... I cannot rest unril I taste its sweetness. 
LILI (frantic): Never! I hate you! I hate this dress! 
DARKNESS: Can you speak so of your bridal gown....? 
LILI (screaming): Nooooooooo! 
86 INTERIOR CORRIDOR OUTSIDE GREAT HALL DAY 
Jack and Gump listen by the closed doors to Lili's peircing scream (OS). Jack is desparate and half-draws his sword from the scabbard. 
JACK: What has he done to her? 
Gump restrains the boy. 
GUMP: You have no power to stop it.... Be thankful she lives. 
Jack shoves his sword back in disgust. 
JACK (bitterly): Some champion.... What good is this fancy sword? 
GUMP: It's not the sword that counts, but the man who swings it.... 
87 INTERIOR GREAT HALL DAY 
Lili slumps to the cold stone floor, WEEPING. Darkness bends solicitously over her. 
DARKNESS: Why the tears? 
LILI (sobbing): ....everything is lost.... poor Jack.... 
DARKNESS: Why weep for him? He left you alone to die! 
LILI: No! He'd never do that! He was killed....like everything else.... 
DARKNESS (glancing over his shoulder): Yes.... But why mourn? You have a new and grander destiny! 
LILI: Consort of some cowardly vile toad who slinks through the night! 
DARKNESS: Not so! I requite to shadow's solace and dark of the night.... Sunshine is my destroyer! 
LILI (scornful): You think you're so powerful.... and hide in the ground like a mole! 
DARKNESS (smiling): This too will change. The last unicorn dies tonight....! As her blood ebbs, the sun sets forever. There shall never be another dawn! 
LILI (horrified): No....! You can't.... You mustn't.... 
Darkness throws back his evil head and LAUGHS. 
88 INTERIOR CORRIDOR OUTSIDE GREAT HALL DAY The demonic LAUGHTER of Darkness carries through the massive doors. 
JACK: He means to kill the mare, Gump! 
GUMP: Don't mourn the corpse 'til the coffin's in the ground. 
DARKNESS (OS): My dominion shall encompass the enternal night! 
GUMP: As long as the sun still shines, so does hope! 
JACK (bitterly: Sun doesn't shine down here. 
Jack fingers Lili's silver medallion hanging around his neck and from out of the blue, inspiration strikes. 
JACK (cont) (grinning): Wait a minute....! I think I know a way. 
89 INTERIOR GREAT HALL DAY 
Lili stares at Darkness with terror and loathing. 
DARKNESS: The world shall be at last as nature intended....a place of chaos and anarchy! 
LILI: You're mad! 
DARKNESS: Aye, Lady, and proud to be so! For in madness lies the soul of all that's noble.... Can you fathom the loneliness of untold eons lived in darkness? My spirit was forged in that black fire.... 
LILI: You live alone because you are loathsome! The contagion of your wicked heart demands isolation. 
DARKNESS: Nay, mistress. I've found my mate and you know it. We're just alike, you and I. Beneath the skin we are already one. 
GUMP (amazed): How did you do that? 
JACK (to Gump): I didn't do anything.... (into keyhole) let me see your face. It will give me hope.... 
Jack strains to see through the keyhole. 
95 INTERIOR GREAT HALL DAY 
Lili stares at the keyhole in horror. 
JACK (os): ....just to glimpse your smile.... 
LILI (grief-stricken): No.... I can't.... forget me, Jack.... 
The Princess reaches out her animal's paw and covers the keyhole. 
96 INTERIOR CORRIDOR OUTSIDE GREAT HALL DAY 
As the LIGHT in the opening grows DARK, Jack tenderly places his hand next to Lili's. 
JACK: Lili....? I love you.... 
Gump pulls frantically on Jack's arm. 
GUMP: Come, Jack. We've no time to spare.... Remember your plan? 
Sadly, Jack takes his hand from the keyhole and follows Gump back along the corridor. 
97 INTERIOR GREAT HALL DAY 
Princess Lili lies SOBBING. High above, the winged figures watch her. The music THROBS, underscoring a low, rhythmic CHANTING. Like some ghastly chorus fro, Hell, the living statuary sings in unison to Lili: 
STATUARY (singing): Bride of Night.... Bride of Night.... Darkness is your heart's delight! Hail to Darkness! Hail the Night! His the Power and the Might! Master of Chaos, Lord of Doom, Sing his praises from the tomb! 
Lili lifts her head, listening to the sepulchral SINGING. Her eyes burn like a tiger's. She bares her fangs, and from her throat issues a bone-chilling HOWL. 
98 INTERIOR DUNGEON CORRIDOR DAY 
Screwball and Brown Tom stop short in their tracks when they hear the SOUND of a distant HOWL echoes in the shadows. 
SCREWBALL (trembling): I vote we run like hell! 
The two faeries scamper off into darkness. 99 INTERIOR DUNGEON CORRIDOR DAY 
Gump, Jack and a woman-sized Luna wait outside the kitchen door as Brown Tom and Screwball come running up. Gump studies his ornate timepiece. 
GUMP: Where were you? In another three flicks of a badger's tail it'll be half-past. 
SCREWBALL: Sorry....time slips away when you're having so much fun. 
BROWN TOM (out of breath): We....found the mare ....chained....in the dungeon below. 
Gump shoves his timepiece back in his belt. 
GUMP: Excellant.... Who has a bit of parchment? 
The two faeries search in their clothing. Screwball produces a plethora of trash: marbles, string, old doll's eyes, coloured bird's eggs, ancient coins, etc. At last he finds a crumbled peice of sheepskin. 
SCREWBALL: Here.... I was saving it to write me will on. 
BROWN TOM: Where there's a will there's a.... 
GUMP: Shush, both of you....! Jack has a plan....a good one.... 
Gump squats on the floor, and, using a triangle and some charcoal, divides the parchment into mysterious lines and angles. 
GUMP (mumbling): ....angle of refraction equals.... angle of incidence....multiplied by a factor of fourty.....divided by the square root of a google-plex.... 
Gump SNAPS his fingers triumphantly. 
GUMP (cont): Perfect! It will work like a charm, Jack! 
JACK: Let's get started! What we need to do is sneak back into the kitchen and gather all the plates and platters.... 
SCREWBALL: Oh no! Not me! Seen enough of that kitchen, I have! 
BROWN TOM: Don't be so pig-headed! You can trust Gump. 
SCREWBALL: I'd sooner trust a rat in the ghetto! 
BROWN TOM: Well.... trust Jack then. 
Jack eases open the kitchen door. 
JACK: Remember....just the shiny ones.... 
Jack leads the way back into the kitcheb. Gump urges the other two to follow. 
GUMP: ....and be quiet! Soft as thistledown, that's the faerie way. 
100 INTERIOR KITCHEN DAY 
Jack and the faeries tiptoe cautiosuly into the kitchen. 
Both Demon Cooks are asleep, the encountered first is stretched out across his chopping block, SNORING like a dragon with indisgestion. 
The unfortunate Blunder turns slowly over the coals, hog-tied to a spit. A bright red apple is stuffed in his mouth. Jack and Gump rush to his side. 
Gump pulls the apple from Blunder's mouth. 
BLUNDER (frantic): Get me outta here! Please! While I'm still medium rare! 
GUMP: Quiet....! You're a free imp on one condition.... 
Staggering under the full weight of the faerie onslaught, the Second Cook lurches in circles. 
SECOND COOK: Kill....! Smash....! 
Furious, the Second Cook swings his heavy skillet at Screwball and Blunder. He misses them completely, hitting himself square on the head and knocking himself out. 
The faeries leap off as the demon toppes backwards into the fireplace. 
GUMP: We must help Jack! 
The faeries race to the foot of the ramp. Jack parries the Cook's fearsome swing. The Cook presses him relentlessly. The CLASH of steel rings through the cavernous kitchen. 
The faeries start up the ramp like a tiny cheering section. 
BLUNDER: Stick him a good one! 
SCREWBALL: Cut him down to size, Jack! 
Giant wine barrels are stacked at tge top of the ramp. The Cook back Jack against them. There is no further room for retreat. 
COOK: Gonna spill your guts, boy. 
The Cook swings his cleaver from the hip. Jack nimbly springs out of harm's way. The cleaver drives full force into one of the chocks supporting the pyramid of wine barrels. 
GRUMBLING, the Cook yanks his cleaver free. This pulls the chock loose from under the bottom barrel. 
COOK (cont) (Listening): Wuzzat....? 
The entire stack of barrels shifts, rolling towards the Cook. 
COOK (cont): Bad news! 
The Cook runs for his life. The huge hogshead RUMBLE forward in a wooden avalanche. 
Jack crouches at the top of the ramp. As the Cook runs past he sticks the sword-blade between his legs and trips him up. 
The Cook tumbles, head over heels, down the ramp. 
Half-way up, the faerie band sees the giant barrels ROLLING towards them. 
SCREWBALL (horrified): Sodom and Glockamora! 
The faeries turn and run. 
The barrels CRASH on top of the fallen Cook, knocking him senseless as they CONTINUE rolling. 
The faeries dive for cover in the arched opening of the kitchen doorway at the bottom of the ramp. 
The barrels CRUNCH into the kitchen wall. Because they are larger than the doorway, the faeries crouching inside are spared. 
Oceans of wine flood out in a dark tidal wave, forcing the door and washing the little people into the corridor beyond. 
101 INTERIOR KITCHEB CORRIDOR DAY 
Brown Tom is beside himself with delight. He scoops up wine with Screwball's helmet and pours it on top of his head.. 
BROWN TOM: Whoopeeeeeee! 
Jack appears in the shattered doorway, sword in hand. 
JACK: Hate to break up the party, but there's work to be done! 
Gump jumps to his feet. 
GUMP: Hurry! Get those plates~ 
Jack sheathes his sword and rushes into the kitchen. 
Screwball and Blunder follow, but Brown Tom lingers behind, scooping the helmet full of wine. 
BROWN TOM: Just a wee taste.... 
Gump kicks Brown Tom smartly in the pants. 
GUMP: Move! Or I make your head ring worse than any hangover! 
Gump chases Brown Tom back into the kitchen. 
101A INTERIOR KITCHEN DAY 
The faeries gather up the fallen plates. Jack stares thoughtfully at the fireplace, where the body of the Second Cook has snuffed out the flames. 
GUMP: What's on your mind, Jack? 
JACK: Smoke rising.... That chimney must go clear to the top. 
Gump peers into the hearth. 
GUMP: Not much to hold onto. Take a peapod pixie to make the climb. 
Screwball steps proudly forward. 
SCREWBALL: I'll do it! 
The faeries are astonished. Screwball never volunteers. 
GUMP: What? Can I believe my ears? 
SCREWBALL: Don't see why not. Ain't I small enough for the job? 
BLUNDER (proudly): No job's too small for the Buttercup brothers.... 
SCREWBALL (on his knees: Please, Gump.... let me try. I know I'm always trouble, but I want to make it up to you.... Prove that I won't let you down. 
LILI: I have no interest in your foul ambition. 
DARKNESS: Desire then....surely we beasts all have desire. 
102C INTERIOR GREAT HALL (MATCHING FIREPLACE OPPOSITE) DAY 
Unseen, Screwball climbs up onto the banquet table. He can't believe his good fortune. A bounteous feast surrounds him. 
LILI (os): You'd never dream what I desire.... 
DARKNESS (os): Don't be so sure.... Dreams are my speciality 
Screwballs stuffs his tunic with black fruit. He rushes about, treading on the feast in his crazed delirium at beung surrounded by such plenty. 
DARKNESS (cont) (os): It is through dreams I influence mankind. I have dreams of my own.... dreams of enternity with you....no more silence....no more loneliness.... 
102D INTERIOR GREAT HALL DAY 
Lili LAUGHS in the face of Darkness. 
LILI (scornfully): Such drivel! You sound like some simpering schoolboy! 
DARKNESS: I'll wager there was a time when the attention of a devoted schoolbvoy were entirely to your liking. 
Lili regards her claws with a savage sneer. 
LILI (snarling): I know what I'd do with such meat now! 
DARKNESS: ....all things change, lady. The pleasures of youth become the regrets of maturity.... 
A loud CRASH on the banquet table causes Darkness to look around. He SEES Screwball standing by the centrepiece, about to shove a whole chicken in his mouth. 
DARKNESS (cont) (angry): What're you doing here? 
Blackened with soot, Screwball easily passes for a goblin. 
SCREWBALL (all innocence): .....am I early....? 
DARKNESS: You impudent imp! 
SCREWBALL: I thought the invitation said half-past.... 
DARKNESS (roaring): GET OUT! 
Screwball gets the message. He drops the chicken and hops down off the banquet table, running to the opposite fireplace for all he's worth. 
DARKNESS (cont) (gently to Lili): Sit.... I value your thoughts. Why not share them with me? 
Lili looks at the grotesque throne. 
LILI: No more than that....just sit? 
DARKNESS (nodding): Sit.... 
Lili steps up onto the oversized footstool. Inches behind her, the monstrous throne swells and throbs like an organic creature, the powerful sinews rippling with desire. 
LILI (a feline smile): Doesn't seem such an outrageous request.... 
The Princess prepares to sit, her luscious, silk-swathed bottom only inches from the lavcivious surface of the squirming throne. 
DARKNESS: You'll never regret granting me this favour.... 
Lili's eyes glitter as she teases him. 
LILI: What shall we talk about? 
DARKNESS (impatient): Just sit! 
The febric of Lili's gown brushes the writihing throne. In another second she will be sitting. Unexpectedly, she stands up tall on the footstool. 
LILI: Such a disagreeable chair....must be terribly uncomfortable. I think I'll stand if you don't mind. 
Darkness barely controls his raging anger. 
DARKNESS: I prefer you to sit! 
LILI: I'd rather stand, thank you. 
Darkness's forehead swells with fury. 
DARKNESS: Sit! 
LILI: No.... Not now.... 
Darkness puffs like an adder in his frenzy, rising up to tower over Lili. 
DARKNESS (roaring): I command you to sit! 
Lili is utterly unafraid. She LAUGHS at the swollen image of Darkness. 
LILI: Don't be silly. 
Lili hops down from the footstool. 
DARKNESS (screaming with rage): SIT, DAMN YOU! 
Lili sashays past him, twitching her gown in an unashamedly wanton fashion. Her hearty LAUGH is as loud as the outraged ROARS of Darkness. 
LILI (laughing): Never.... never.... 
103-110 DELETED 
110A INTERIOR DUNGEON CHASM DAY Jack scales a plate like a golden discus across the chasm to Brown Tom waiting on the viaduct above. 
111D EXTERIOR TOP OF CHIMNEY DAY 
The chimney pot is shaped like a monstrous demon. Black as a sweep, Screwball emerges at the top and looks around. 
The distant sun is a dying ember resting on the surrounding rim of dark mountains. We HEAR the SOUND of a clock CHIME! 
111E INTERIOR DUNGEON CORRIDOR DAY 
A distant CHIME stops Gump in his tracks. He pulls out his timepiece from the pouch and studies it. 
GUMP: ....not much time.... 
111F INTERIOR GREAT HALL DAY 
Princess Lili stretches out her arms towards Darkness. 
LILI: Bring me to the wretched beast. 
Darkness takes her arm and leads her towards the blazing hearth. 
The unicorn's distant whinny ECHOES from below. 
DARKNESS: This way, fair beauty. I hear a throat begging to be cut. 
Lili hesitates when she realises Darkness intends to lead her straight into the flames. 
LILI (fearful): No....! It's impossible! 
Darkness steps into the leaping flames. He turns and takes Lili's hand. 
DARKNESS: Now you are my queen. Nothing is impossible....Come....it takes but a single step....Find the faith.... 
Darkness looks deep into Lili's eyes. She places her tiny foot among the white glowing coals. Nothing happens. Not even the fur is singed. 
Lili smiles. Her fear vanishes. She stands at the side of her master. Darkness wraps a powerful arm about the girl and they are consumed by flames, becoming one with the blaze around them. 
112 DELETED 
113 INTERIOR DUNGEON DAY 
Unseen by the deformed goblin GUARDS, the faeries creep out of the shadows and take cover behind a squat stone column. 
Jack positions Blunder in the corridor entrance with the final plate before joining the others. 
JACK: Everything's ready.... 
GUMP: And you, Jack? Your greatest challenge is still to come.... 
Darkness and Princess Lili emerge, arm in arm, out of a background curtain of fire. They sweep majestically down the stone steps to where the unicorn is chained. 
Silent as mice, Jack and the faeries peer around at them. Jack is horrified by Lili's bestial appearance. JACK: ....oh, God....! Lili.... 
GUMP: Judge her with your heart, not your eyes. 
Blix and Poxand the other goblin Guards scramble to attention as the regal pair ascends. 
BLIX: Greetings.... 
POX: S-s-s-salutations.... 
DARKNESS: Silence....! Prepare the unicorn for sacrafice! 
The goblins hurry to comply. Blix selects a grotesque black greatsword from among a rack of weapons. 
Pox furiously pedals a grindstone. Blix applies the blade. Showers of sparks shower onto the glistening floor. 
Behind the column, the watching faeries are desparate. Luna's glowing LIGHT hovers above their heads. 
BROWN TOM: The game is lost....for all of Jack's pretty plan... JACK: No! It'll work! It must! 
GUMP: Luna! Fly up to Screwball! Tell him it's time! 
Quick as a FLASH, Luna STREAKS off into the shadows. 
Blix carries the sharpened greatsword to Darkness, offering it with a low bow. 
DARKNESS: Excellent.... Let the ritual begin.... 
The demon Guards stand in a semi-circle around the unicorn. Blix and Pox open tattered black prayer books. Darkness steps to a twisted lectern and READS from a sinister volume. 
DARKNESS: In the beginning, there was nothing....a void of darkness, a cold enternity of silence.... 
POX: Endless night, black as death! Mother of Shadows protect us! 
The assembled Guards answer in a ghastly CHORUS: 
CHORUS OF GUARDS: Mother of Shadows, renew us! 
POX: Dream Sister....eclipse our pain! 
CHORUS OF GUARDS: Night Bride....restore our strength! 
114 INTERIOR KEEP AND CORRIDORS DAY 
Luna BLAZES straight up out of the abysmal keep; a tiny shooting star. The demons' ceremony continues (OS): 
DARKNESS (OS): ....and when the perfect void was corrupted by Light, a great wailing was heard and all the brethern fled in terror.... 
Luna rockets along the ruined corridors of the labyrinth. 
CHORUS OF GUARDS (OS): Deliver us, O' Darkness, from all fear.... 
115 INTERIOR DUNGEON DAY 
Lili swings the greatsword high over head. 
CHORUS OF GUARDS (chanting): Blood and fire....eternal ice! Blood and fire....and sacrafice.... 
Gump draws back the arrow in the longbow, aiming at Lili. 
JACK: No....! Don't...! 
Jack grabs the bow. He and Gump struggle for the weapon. 
118 DELETED 
119 DELETED 
120 DELETED 
120A INTERIOR KITCHEN DAY 
The beam of LIGHT hits the plate held by the Second Cook in the fireplace. It STREAKS across the the plate leaning on the bellows, ZIGZAGGING out into the corridor. 
120B INTERIOR KEEP DAY 
The beam of LIGHT ZOOMS out of the corridor, strikes the plate on the viaduct, and REFLECTS down into the lowest depths of the castle. 
121 INTERIOR DUNGEON DAY 
Gump is determined to shoot Lili. Jack, equally determined to stop him. 
JACK: I trust her, Gump....I'll always trust her.... 
GUMP: Foolish, mortal! 
The beam of LIGHT STREAMS in through the corridor. Blunder REFLECTS it off his plate towards the others. 
Struggling for the bow, Jack and Gump kick over the propped shielf the moment the LIGHT beam reaches it. 
BROWN TOM: Stop lads....! The light! 
A wild LAUGH bursts from Lili's throat. She swings the sword with all her might. 
The blade arcs through the air, a glittering SUNBURST where it carves through the deflected beam of LIGHT. 
Lili aims not for the mare, but for the line restraning her. The sword severs the woven cable. 
LILI (exultant): Run! You're free....! 
The unicorn plunges into the shadows. Only the ECHO of her hoofbeats remain. 
Jack and Gump stop struggling. Jack dives for his fallen shield. 
Darkness pulls a weapon from his belt. It is the stallion's alicorn mounted as a shortsword. 
DARKNESS (sneering savagely): Innocence! 
Huge and terrible, Darkness lunges for Lili, driving the alicorn straight through her side. 
Lili is pierced by the horn. She GASPS, supported by the Demon's hold on the blade. 
Miraculously, Lili's features alter and TRANSFORM. The fangs and claws disappear. Her fur melts like the morning dew. She is an innocent maiden once more. 
Lili slides dying off the alicorn and falls to the ground. 
Jack holds his shield in the beam of LIGHT, angling in a bright swath towards Darkness. 
JACK: Burn....! You evil bastard.... 
The LIGHT hits Darkness like an express train. He HOWLS, blasted in a smoking whirlwind across the dungeon. 
Darkness cowers on his knees, SCREAMING in the LIGHT. 
All the goblins scatter HOWLING from the LIGHT. 
Brown Tom capers a happy two-step around Gump, who stares straight up into the central keep. 
BROWN TOM: ....and we'll dance on the black devil's grave.... 
GUMP'S POV : LOOKING UP: The beam of LIGHT dims and goes out. 
BROWN TOM (OS): What's wrong....? What's happening, Gump? 
Gump shrugs, looking sadly at Jack and the darkened shield he holds. 
GUMP (sadly): Sunset.... 
With a savage SNARL, Darkness staggers off into the gloon, trailing trendrils of smoke. 
Jack drops the shield and rushes to Lili's side. He kneels and cradles her in his arms. 
Throwing back his head, Jack HOWLS like a wild animal. His CRY is a wolf-wail of utter despair. 
Gump runs frantically up to grieving Green Man. 
GUMP: No, Jack....Quick! He's after the mare! 
Gump seizes the grotesque sacraficial greatsword. 
GUMP (cont): The world needs a champion! (handing Jack the black sword) Use this against him! 
Jack snatches the sword. He rises cold with fury and runs off into pursuit of Darkness. 
122 DELETED 
123 DELETED 
She spears Darkness straight his mid-section. The evil Lord SCREAMS, staring down at the shining alicorn thrsut out of his chest. 
DARKNESS (cont): ....Father....! Protect me.... 
Darkness starts to shrink. The mare lifts the writhing demon high in the air, impaled like a kicking insect. 
Rearing, the unicorn arches her neck and tosses Darkness over toe edge into the abyss. 
Darkness tumbles into the haze. His final HOWL is a lament from the depths of Hell. 
At the last moment, the falling figure of Darkness TRANSFORMS into the flapping black cloak and sails off into the shadows. 
Jack picks up the alicorn. He wraps his other arm around the unicorn's neck. They stand together at the edge of the world, united in a victorious embrace. 
126C EXTERIOR MOUTH OF CAVERN NIGHT 
The faeries gather at the entrance. Screwball is there, half asleep. Luna is full-sized. Pale and sleeping, Lili lies on the black cloak. The faeries stand around her, eyes downcast. 
Jack rides up, mounted on the unicorn. Surrounded by light, he is more than a champion. He is divine. The faeries are delighted. 
GUMP: Why....Jack....solved your riddle at last.... 
BROWN TOM: Should've known no mortal could speak unicorn like that.... 
JACK: How is Lili? 
GUMP: Sadly beyond the help of faerie magic. She's under a powerful spell.... It's like a riddle.... 
Jack understands. He brightens into a smile. 
JAC: I know the answer....! Lift her to me, gently.... 
Jack hands Gump the alicorn as the faeries gather Lili in their arms, lifting her above their heads. 
Jack carefully pulls the enchanted Princess in front of him across the unicorn's withers. 
JACK (cont): We'll meet again, dear friends.... 
Jack touches his heels to the unicorn's flanks and they gallop off in a CLATTER of hoofbeats. 
GUMP (waving): Ride like the wind, Jack.... 
BROWN TOM: Wish we could go with him.... 
GUMP: And why not? I know some magic words that'll do the trick! 
SCREWBALL: Oh no! Not me! I hate to travel like that....makes me sick. 
GUMP: Stand back....! The sky's the limit! 
SCREWBALL: Can't stand your bumpy takeoffs.... 
Abruptly, Screwball SHOOTS into the air, flying out of sight. 
GUMP: Screwball! Wait for the spell.... 
SCREWBALL (os): ....I never do.... 
Gump gestures magically. 
GUMP: Eiderdown and milkfeed fluff.... 
All at once, Gump, Blunder, and Brown Tom STREAK off into space. Luna watches them go. TRANSFORMING into a dot of LIGHT, she speeds up after them. 
127 EXTERIOR FOREST (RIDE MONTAGE) NIGHT 
Jack clings to Lili as the unicorn thunders through the midnight forest, darting like quicksilver between the shadowy trees, leaping impossible chasms, splashing across streams in a burst of moonlit spray. 
127A EXTERIOR SKY NIGHT 
The full moon hangs above like the lantern of God as the faeries tumble through the clear night sky. Gump rides the alicorn like a broomstick. 
Far below, magically white and fluid as free-roving moonbeam, the unicorn carries her passengers across the nocturnal forest with the ease of a dreamer transported through time. 
128 EXTERIOR RING POND DAY It is not yet sun-up. The first faint trace of the false dawn tints the eastern horizon. Everywhere, the snow is melting. It is like springtime, with bold patches of green showing through the frozen landscape. 
A bright beam of LIGHT APPROACHES, weaving between the giant trees. It is Jack and Lili, mounted on the unicorn. 
Jack rides up onto the high rock overinghanfing the ponnd and slides easily to the ground with Lili in his arms. 
The unicorn doesn't move. She stands watching as Jack gently rests Lili down on the mossy earth. 
Jack strips off his golden mail coat and steps on the edge of the promontory. He dives gracefully into the pond. 
128A EXTERIOR FOREST DAY 
Screwball in the lead, the faeries CRASH down through the trees, bouncing to a stop on the forest floor. 
SCREWBALL: Ow! 
BROWN TOM: Ouch! 
GUMP (cheerfully): Home again! 
The bedraggled faeries scowl at Gump. 
129 EXTERIOR UNDERWATER DAY 
Jack streaks down, streaming air bubbles like a comet's tail. 
129A EXTERIOR UNICORN DEATH ARENA DAY 
The faeries gather around the frozen unicorn stallion. His alicorn has been restored. Wreathed in flowers, it stands majestically out from his forehead. 
