LES MISERABLES 
Written by 
William Nicholson Alain Boublil, Claude- Michel Schönberg and Herbert Kretzmer 
Adapted from the Stage Musical "Les Misérables" 
Based on the novel by Victor Hugo 
May 20, 2012 
BLACK SCREEN 
SUPERIMPOSE CAPTION: 
The year is 1815. 
The French revolution is a distant memory. Napoleon has been defeated. France is ruled by a King again. 
A1   EXT. TOULON PORT - DAY                                     A1 
RISE UP out of the iron-grey surface of the ocean, seething in the wind, towards the shore. Winter rain slices the air. Ahead, the port of Toulon, home of the French navy. A forest of tall masted warships. 
The great ships heave at anchor, the wind whipping their rigging. 
Through the sea spray we see the great ribs of warships under construction, and warships being refitted. 
SUPERIMPOSE CAPTION: 
Toulon Home port of the French navy 
1    EXT. TOULON DOCK - DAY                                        1 
Storm-lashed sea and driving rain. A great wave rises up and hammers down. As it recedes we see the figures of men heaving on great ropes, the sea water streaming down over their faces. The harsh storm light catches glints of metal: these men are CONVICTS, chained by manacles, heads shaved, wearing red shirts with prison numbers crudely stitched onto them. 
Now we see that the ropes run up to a ship that is being hauled ashore - a storm-damaged man-of-war, its masts broken, rising and falling on the surge. 
As yet another great wave rolls over the convicts, we follow the straining ropes down into the base of the slipway, and find the convict JEAN VALJEAN, up to his waist in water, chained by two sets of manacles, as the rain and spray and wind scream round him. A great brute of a man, he seems to feel nothing. 
The convicts sing in time with the rhythmic pulls on the rope - 
CONVICTS Ha - Ha - 
CONVICT 3 Ha - Ha - Look down, look down Don't look them in the eye 
CONVICTS Look down, look down You're here until you die. 
CONVICT 4 No God above And Hell alone below 
CONVICTS Look down, look down There's twenty years to go. 
The camera RISES UP to find JAVERT, the officer in charge of the convict workforce, looking on, his face rain-lashed and expressionless. He stands above the men on the top of the dock, as lines of convicts labour beneath him on the steep steps of the dock wall. 
Behind Javert, through the storm rain we glimpse a forest of half-built ships, their ribbed frames like great skeletons in the mist. 
FOREGROUND convicts are at work on another ship that is almost completed, labouring in the crashing spray. 
CONVICT 2 I've done no wrong Sweet Jesus, hear my prayer! 
CONVICTS Look down, look down Sweet Jesus doesn't care. 
CONVICT 5 I know she'll wait I know that she'll be true - 
CONVICTS Look down, look down They've all forgotten you. 
CONVICT 1 When I get free You won't see me Here for dust! 
CONVICTS Look down, look down Don't look'em in the eye. 
CONVICT 3 How long, O Lord Before you let me die? 
CONVICTS Look down, look down You'll always be a slave. Look down, look down You're standing in your grave. 
With a last great heave the lines of convicts haul the damaged ship onto the slipway. 
CRACK! The stern flagpole of the ship snaps in a vicious gust of wind and crashes down into the shallow water near Valjean. Javert sees and points his stick at Valjean in silent command. Valjean stares back for a beat, defying him. Then he drops down into the seething water and re-emerges with the great mast in his hands, held over his head. His head breaks water with his bitter gaze still on Javert, as he throws the mast ashore in a deliberate display of strength. 
Javert nods to the guards, and they begin to form the chained men into lines to return to their prison. The storm is passing now, blown by the driving wind. 
Javert approaches Jean Valjean. 
JAVERT Now Prisoner 24601. Your time is up And your parole's begun. You know what that means? 
The camera hurtling towards three horses riding down a long muddy road on a flat plain towards the walled town of Montreuil-sur-Mer. Montreuil sits on an estuary leading out to the sea. We see ships sitting in low tide on the mud of the estuary along the dockside of the town, and red brick factory buildings. 
SUPERIMPOSE CAPTION: 
Eight years later 
Montreuil-sur-Mer, 1823. 
The camera closes in to ground level to reveal the horseriders: 
Javert, flanked by two policemen. 
16A   EXT. GATES TO MONTREUIL - DAY                               16A 
As the riders enter the walled town we see the poor clustered around the gates - destitute and sick people clammering to get in. 
BEGGARS' CHORUS At the end of the day you're another day older And that's all you can say for the life of the poor. It's a struggle! It's a war! And there's nothing that anyone's giving. One more day standing about - What is it for? One day less to be living. 
Javert sees the destitution of the people. Expressionless as ever. 
BEGGARS' CHORUS At the end of the day you're another day colder And the shirt on your back doesn't keep out the chill. And the righteous hurry past They don't hear the little ones crying And the plague is coming on fast Ready to kill - One day nearer to dying! 
TRACK PAST a plague victim, wrapped in a shroud, being thrown onto a cart. 
The police enter the harbour. 
17    EXT. HARBOUR - MONTREUIL - DAY                              17 
The beggars are pushed back as the gates open and close for the police. 
BEGGARS' CHORUS At the end of the day there's another day dawning And the sun in the morning is waiting to rise Like the waves crash on the sand Like a storm that'll break any second There's a hunger in the land There's a reckoning still to be reckoned And there's gonna be hell to pay At the end of the day! 
Javert looks round at the factory buildings, the boats in the harbour, the poor clamouring behind him, and rides on. 
18      SCENE OMITTED                                                18 
19      EXT. FACTORY YARD, MONTREUIL - DAY                           19 
Heavy carts wait to be loaded with wooden crates of goods. Workmen carry the crates out of the factory as the FOREMAN strides in through the doors, gesturing to a cart driver, FAUCHELEVENT, who's taking a quick rest on a crate. 
19A     INT. FACTORY, MONTREUIL - MEN'S SECTION - DAY               19A 
The foreman passes men packing boxes on tables and loading boxes onto crates. He passes through a door under a first floor office. 
20-22   INT. FACTORY, MONTREUIL - WOMEN'S SECTION - DAY        20-22 
The long work space is full of tables at which conservatively dressed women are working, making jewelry out of shellac, a black resin which looks like jet. An impressive sight: obviously a very successful business. A wooden staircase climbs one wall to a glass-windowed business office. The figure of a man within. 
FOREMAN (flirtatiously, to women) At the end of the day you get nothing for nothing! Sitting flat on your bum doesn't buy any bread! 
FACTORY WOMAN 4 There are children back at home - 
FACTORY WOMAN 2 And the children have got to be fed. 
FACTORY WOMAN 7 And you're lucky to be in a job - 
The Foreman has stopped beside FANTINE, a pretty young woman. As he leans over to whisper in her ear Fantine, surprised, pricks her finger with her needle. 
FOREMAN (quietly, to Fantine) And in a bed! 
FACTORY WOMAN 8 (to Fantine, as a warning) And we're counting our blessings! 
The Foreman continues his rounds, encouraging the women to speed up their work. 
FOREMAN At the end of the day just be glad to be working For a master who cares for the lives of the poor. 
FACTORY WOMAN 7 He's a riddle.. 
FACTORY WOMAN 4 He's no fool.. 
FACTORY WOMAN 6 He's the answer to anyone's prayer 
FACTORY WOMAN 8 And he paid for the brand new school 
FACTORY WOMAN 4 It's no wonder they made him the mayor! 
FACTORY WOMEN Bless the man who leads the way! At the end of the day! 
They get on with their tasks, all glancing up at the boss in the office above. 
The Foreman returns to Fantine, trying to help her. 
MAIN FACTORY WOMAN Have you seen how the foreman is fuming today With his terrible breath and his wandering hands? 
Javert stares at him. 
On the factory floor below, the Foreman hustles Fantine out, as she struggles against him. 
23   INT. FACTORY OFFICE - DAY                                    23 
Javert bows. 
JAVERT I introduce myself, Inspector of Police. I've come to take the watch I'm here to keep the peace. Please know me as Javert. 
I'm here at your command With honour due to each. With justice in our hands No man's beyond our reach. Let all beware. 
VALJEAN Welcome, sir Come guard our laws I'm sure we're here In common cause. 
Javert turns to look through the high window onto the men's factory floor below. The last men are leaving for the day. 
JAVERT You've done the city proud, You've raised their banner high. (more) 
JAVERT (cont'd) You manufacture gems That anyone can buy Your people thrive. 
Valjean shows some demonstration samples of their work. 
VALJEAN The dignity of toil To stay alive. 
Javert is puzzled. He's sure he recognises Valjean, but from where? 
JAVERT It seems to me We may have met. 
Valjean throws him a sharp glance. 
VALJEAN Your face is not a face I would forget. 
A CRASH from outside in the yard - shouts - 
24   EXT. TRACK LEADING TO FACTORY, MONTREUIL - DAY               24 
Valjean and Javert hurry out across the factory yard and down the muddy track beyond to discover - 
A heavily laden cart has toppled onto the cart driver - Fauchelevent, the worker seen before taking a rest on a crate. 
The   cart driver and the Foreman are trying to lift the cart off   the crushed man, but it's too heavy, and the ground is too   soft. Fauchelevent screams as the cart slowly sinks in the   mud. 
Valjean, Javert and Javert's assistant all hurry to help, but they can't get a proper purchase in the spongy ground. All the time the cart is sinking further, pushing Fauchelevent deeper into the mud that will soon bury him. Then Valjean sees a way. At one end the wheels of the cart have stopped sinking - the ground is harder here. He throws himself under the cart at this higher end, and braces himself to lift it from beneath. 
VALJEAN Get back! It may fall! 
FOREMAN No, Monsieur le Mayor! 
CROWD It'll kill you as well! 
Javert stands back and looks on. As he looks, we see a memory stirring in him. 
JAVERT'S POV - Valjean's posture beneath the cart is exactly the same as the convict beneath the fallen mast. The same crouching power. The same almost-suicidal determination. 
Valjean sees Javert looking at him, and knows exactly what he's thinking. For a moment he hesitates. Then he hears Fauchelevent's choking scream as the mud gags his mouth. Valjean strains every muscle, and slowly one end of the cart begins to rise. As soon as it clears the crushed and gasping man, the others pull him clear. 
Valjean lets the cart down again, and climbs out. As he brushes himself down he finds Javert staring at him. 
JAVERT Can this be true? I don't believe what I see! A man your age To be as strong as you are! A memory stirs... You make me think of a man From years ago A man who broke his parole.. He disappeared. 
He shakes his head, realising how absurd his suspicions are. 
JAVERT Forgive me, sir. I would not dare - 
VALJEAN Say what you must. Don't leave it there. 
Valjean holds Javert's gaze, challenging him to say more. Javert is not yet confident enough to continue. 
Valjean goes to help Fauchelevent. 
VALJEAN Let me help you up. 
Fauchelevent groans as he rises. 
FAUCHELEVENT Monsieur le Mayor, you come from God! You are a saint! 
VALJEAN No more cart driving for you! 
Javert stares. He can't rid himself of his suspicion. 
JAVERT Monsieur le Mayor. 
He draws himself up and gives a bow. As he walks away, he discusses something with his assistant. 
HAIR CRONE Go and see them. 
Fantine looks towards the tooth man and the head whore. 
TOOTH MAN                        HEAD WHORE Come over here,                   Come here my dear. I'll pay well for your youth. I pay ten francs for a tooth. 
Fantine heads to the tooth man. 
TOOTH MAN You have, my dear, The clear advantage of youth. 
HEAD WHORE (whispers) Just the back ones. 
TOOTH MAN The pain won't last, You'll still be able to bite. 
She grabs Fantine's cheeks and forces open her mouth to inspect her teeth. 
TOOTH MAN I do it fast, I know my business all right. It's worth a go. 
The pimp pushes her down. 
FANTINE You'll pay me first What I am due. 
TOOTH MAN You'll get twice If I take two! 
She opens her mouth, and the pincers go in, as everyone gathers round to watch. Fantine screams as the first tooth is removed. 
26B   EXT. RED LIGHT DISTRICT MONTREUIL - NIGHT                    26B 
The pimp is passing among the whores, checking that they're all fit for business. 
WHORES God, we're weary, Sick enough to drop! 
LOVELY LADY 1 Belly burns like fire, Will the bleeding ever stop! 
PIMP Cheer up, deary! Show a happy face! Plenty more like you here If you can't keep up the pace. 
LOVELY LADY 1 Only joking! Deary knows her place! 
The pimp gestures at Fantine, now slumped in a doorway, her cropped head in her hands. 
A shy captain watches Fantine. The pimp notices. 
PIMP Gimme the dirt - Who's that bit over there? 
WHORE 1 A bit of skirt, She's the one sold her hair. 
HEAD WHORE She's got a kid, Sends her all that she can. 
PIMP I might've known There is always some man. 
He moves in on Fantine. 
PIMP Lovely lady, come along and join us! Lovely lady! 
Fantine looks up, a trickle of blood in one corner of her mouth. The whores cluster round her, hands reaching out to draw her in to their world. On the rotting warship, more whores appear out of the gaps of the hull to sing the chorus. 
WHORE 1 Come on, dearie, why all the fuss? 
WHORES ... why all the fuss. 
WHORE 2 You're no grander than the rest of us. 
WHORES ... than the rest of us. 
WHORE 3 Life has dropped you at the bottom of the heap. 
WHORES ...at the bottom of the heap. 
Whore 3 bites her fingertip and applies her blood to rouge Fantine's cheeks. 
HEAD WHORE Join your sisters - 
WHORE 1 Make money in your sleep! 
WHORES ... make money in your sleep. 
WHORE 2 That's right, dearie, Show him what you've got! 
WHORES ... show him what you've got. 
WHORE 3 That's right, dearie, Let him have the lot! 
WHORES ...let him have the lot. 
He shows the blood. Javert turns to Fantine. 
JAVERT She will answer for her actions When you make a full report. You may rest assured, M'sieur, That she will answer to the court. 
Fantine is almost fainting with fear, still racked with occasional spasms of coughing. Unseen by her, Valjean is approaching from behind. Javert's assistants pick Fantine up. Javert covers his mouth with a handkerchief as he approaches Fantine. 
FANTINE There's a child who sorely needs me, Please, m'sieur, she's but that high. Holy God, is there no mercy? If I go to jail she'll die. 
JAVERT I have heard such protestations Every day for twenty years. Let's have no more explanations, (more) 
JAVERT (cont'd) Save your breath and save your tears. 
Javert indicates to the two policemen to drag Fantine away. 
Valjean steps out of the shadows. 
VALJEAN A moment of your time, Javert. I do believe this woman's tale. 
JAVERT Monsieur le Mayor! 
VALJEAN You've done your duty. Let her be. She needs a doctor, not a jail. 
JAVERT Monsieur le Mayor! 
Javert looks on, containing his anger, as Valjean reaches out a hand to Fantine. To Fantine, it's as if he's come to her in a dream - 
FANTINE Can this be? 
VALJEAN Where will she end - This child without a friend? 
He holds Fantine's hands, looking into her face. 
VALJEAN I've seen your face before. Show me some way to help you. How have you come to grief In such a place as this? 
FANTINE M'sieur, don't mock me now, I pray It's hard enough I've lost my pride. You let your foreman send me away. Yes, you were there And turned aside. I never did no wrong. 
VALJEAN Is it true what I've done - 
FANTINE My daughter's close to dying. 
VALJEAN - to an innocent soul? 
FANTINE If there's a God above - 
VALJEAN Had I only known then! 
FANTINE He'd let me die instead. 
VALJEAN In His name my task has just begun. I will her to the hospital. 
Valjean picks Fantine up in his arms. 
Javert is quietly coldly furious. 
JAVERT Monsieur le Mayor! 
FANTINE Bring Cosette back to me. 
VALJEAN Where is she? 
FANTINE At an inn in Montfermeil... 
JAVERT Monsieur le Mayor! 
VALJEAN I will see it done! I will send for her immediately! 
As Valjean and Fantine move away, Javert stares after them, then turns and quietly instructs his assistant to follow after them. 
30   EXT. POLICE STATION, MONTREUIL - DAY                       30 
As Javert walks up the steps to his police station his assistant stops him with an urgent letter. 
JAVERT'S ASSISTANT From Paris, Monsieur. 
Javert seizes it, opens it, and reads. As he reads, his expression changes. Appalled, he realizes he's made a terrible mistake. 
31   INT. FACTORY, MONTREUIL - NIGHT                              31 
Valjean is at his desk in his office, going through his papers once everyone else has gone, when Javert enters and stands before him. He looks up. 
JAVERT Monsieur le Mayor I have a crime to declare! I have disgraced The uniform that I wear. I've done you wrong, Let no forgiveness be shown. I've been as hard On every rogue I have known. I'll bear the blame, I must be treated Just the same. 
VALJEAN I don't understand. What is this crime, Javert? 
VALJEAN `Money not enough. Send more. Thenardier.' What sort of man is this? 
34   INT. HOSPITAL, MONTREUIL - NIGHT                             34 
Fantine lies in bed, delirious. She is dressed in pure white. Her eyes are closed. 
FANTINE Cosette, it's turned so cold! Cosette, it's past your bedtime! You've played the day away And soon it will be night. 
Fantine's eyes open and she sees Cosette, playing in the room. She looks healthy and is dressed prettily. 
Come to me, Cosette, the light is fading. (more) 
FANTINE (cont'd) Don't you see, the evening star appearing? Come to me, and rest against my shoulder, How fast the minutes fly away and every minute colder? 
Valjean enters, and sees at once that Fantine is close to the end. He drops to his knees by her bed. 
VALJEAN Dear Fantine, Cosette will be here soon! Dear Fantine, she will be by your side 
FANTINE (trying to get out of bed) Come Cosette, the night has grown so cold! 
VALJEAN (putting her back in bed) Be at peace! Be at peace ever more. 
FANTINE My Cosette - 
VALJEAN - shall live in my protection. 
FANTINE Take her now! 
She pushes into his hand a scrap of paper on which she's written her wishes. 
VALJEAN Your child will want for nothing. 
FANTINE Good m'sieur, you come from God in heaven. 
VALJEAN And none shall ever harm Cosette as long as I am living. 
Fantine has stopped looking towards the window. All her fading strength is now directed towards Valjean. She tries to reach up to him. 
FANTINE Take my hand... The night grows ever colder. 
VALJEAN Then I will keep you warm. 
He wraps her in his arms. 
FANTINE Take my child I give her to your keeping. 
VALJEAN Take shelter from the storm. 
FANTINE For God's sake, please stay till I am sleeping... And tell Cosette I love her And I'll see her when I wake... 
Fantine starts to spasm. She sees something over Valjean's shoulder. Valjean doesn't realise. Her eyes go glassy as she passes away. Valjean then hears the unforgettable voice of Javert behind him. 
JAVERT Valjean, at last We see each other plain! `M'sieur le Mayor' You'll wear a different chain! 
Valjean stands to face Javert. 
VALJEAN Before you say another word, Javert, Before you chain me up like a slave again, Listen to me! There is something I must do. This woman leaves behind a suffering child. There is none but me who can intercede - In mercy's name, three days are all I need, Then I'll return, I pledge my word! Then I'll return... 
Javert draws his sword and aims it at Valjean. 
JAVERT You must think me mad! I've hunted you across the years. Men like you can never change - A man such as you! 
Valjean breaks a section of timber beam from the roof. 
The men start to circle each other. 
They sing at the same time, duelling in song. 
VALJEAN Believe of me what you will There is a duty that I'm sworn to do. You know nothing of my life - All I did was steal some bread. You know nothing of the world - You would sooner see me dead. But not before I see this justice done! 
JAVERT Men like me can never change. Men like you can never change. No, 24601! My duty is to the law. You have no rights. Come with me, 24601! 
The two men fight. 
VALJEAN I am warning you, Javert, I'm a stronger man by far! There is power in me yet! My race is not yet run! 
JAVERT Now the wheel has turned around - Jean Valjean is nothing now. Dare you talk to me of crime And the price you had to pay. Every man is born in sin Every man must choose his way. 
Javert disarms Valjean and drives him backwards towards an attic door. 
You know nothing of Javert! I was born inside a jail. I was born with scum like you. I am from the gutter too. 
Valjean is pushed through the doors out onto a wooden loading platform beneath a hoist. Below, the walls of the factory lead straight down to the black sea at high tide. Javert is triumphant. 
Madame Thenardier is trying to sell something unappealing from her stall to a portly looking man when slushy snow from the stall's roof falls on the man's head. Madame Thenardier ushers him inside. 
37    INT. INN, MONTFERMEIL - DUSK                                37 
THENARDIER Welcome, m'sieur! Sit yourself down And meet the best Innkeeper in town! 
Madame Thenardier pretends to accidentally drop a comb from her hair and the customer helpfully picks it up, allowing Madame Thenardier to pick his wallet from a back pocket as he stands up. Monsieur Thenardier takes his coat which allows the couple to see the customer transfer a pocket watch from coat to jacket pocket. 
THENARDIER As for the rest - All of them crooks Rooking the guests And cooking the books. Seldom do you see Honest men like me A gent of good intent Who's content to be - 
He pours a strong drink for the new customer - 
THENARDIER Master of the house! Doling out the charm Ready with a handshake And an open palm 
Thenardier has thieved the pocket watch using his handshake as a distraction. He passes this off to Madame Thenardier. 
THENARDIER Tells a saucy tale Makes a little stir Customers appreciate a bon-viveur Glad to do a friend a favour Doesn't cost me to be nice But nothing gets you nothing Everything has got a little price! 
THENARDIER Master of the house! Keeper of the zoo! Ready to relieve'em Of a sou or two - (serving wine) Watering the wine 
37A   INT. KITCHEN, INN, MONTFERMEIL - FLASHBACK - DAY           37A 
Thenardier is pissing into the very wine bottle he's using to serve the customer. 
37B   INT. INN, MONTFERMEIL - DUSK                               37B 
THENARDIER Making up the weight Picking up their knick-knacks When they can't see straight Everybody loves a landlord Everybody's bosom friend! I do whatever pleases - Jesus! Won't I bleed'em in the end! 
37C   EXT. INN, MONTFERMEIL - DUSK                               37C 
At Madame Thenardier's stall, a frost fair customer is covered by snow, only this time we realise Madame Thenardier is responsible for pushing the snow off the awning with a stick. 
THENARDIER/CUSTOMERS Master of the house! Quick to catch your eye (more) 
THENARDIER/CUSTOMERS (cont'd) Never wants a passer-by To pass him by! 
Madame Thenardier ushers the customer inside. 
37D   INT. INN, MONTFERMEIL - DUSK                                  37D 
Again Madame Thenardier drops her comb in front of the new customer but this time the thieving is foiled by little Cosette who helpfully picks it up. Over the chorus she shouts at little Cosette to get out. 
THENARDIER/CUSTOMERS Servant to the poor Butler to the great Comforter, philosopher and lifelong mate Everybody's boon companion Everybody's chaperone - 
THENARDIER But lock up your valises - Jesus! Won't I skin you to the bone! 
A FAMILY enters the inn. Thenardier fusses over them. 
THENARDIER Enter, messieurs! Lay down yer load Unlace yer boots And rest from the road. This weighs a ton Travel's a curse But here we strive To lighten your purse. 
He's got the father's purse out, and is removing notes. 
THENARDIER Here the goose is cooked Here the fat is fried And nothing's overlooked Till I'm satisfied - Food beyond compare Food beyond belief 
38    INT. KITCHEN, INN, MONTFERMEIL - FLASHBACK - DAY              38 
Thenardier shows off the secrets of the squalid kitchen - every possible animal being used to make mince meat. 
THENARDIER V/O Mix it in a mincer And pretend it's beef Kidney of a horse (more) 
THENARDIER V/O (cont'd) Liver of a cat Filling up the sausages With this and that! 
38A   INT. INN, MONTFERMEIL - DUSK                                38A 
Thenardier serves the disgusting food that we've seen him create in the flashback to the family. 
THENARDIER Residents are more than welcome Bridal suite is occupied 
38B   INT. BRIDAL SUITE - FLASHBACK - NIGHT                       38B 
A groom and bride consummate their union. 
Thenardier is going through the groom's trousers. 
THENARDIER V/O Reasonable charges Plus some little extras on the side. 
38C   INT. INN, MONTFERMEIL - NIGHT                               38C 
THENARDIER Charge'em for the lice Extra for the mice Two percent for looking in the mirror twice. Here a little slice There a little cut Three percent for sleeping with the window shut. When it comes to fixing prices There are lots of tricks he knows How it all increases All those bits and pieces - Jesus! It's amazing how it grows. 
39    EXT. INN, MONTFERMEIL - NIGHT                               39 
Thenardier comes out of the inn, backed by a posse of his gang of loyal customers, and takes control of a brass band to sing to the Frost Fair. 
Thenardier turns to his wife. 
THENARDIER What to do? What to say Shall you carry our treasure away? What a gem! What a pearl! Beyond rubies is our little girl! How can we speak of debt? Let's not haggle for darling Colette! 
MADAME THENARDIER Cosette! 
THENARDIER Cosette - Dear Fantine - gone to rest - Have we done for her child what is best? Shared our bread - shared each bone - Treated her like she's one of our own! Like our own, m'sieur! 
VALJEAN Your feelings do you credit, sir. And I will ease the parting blow. Let us not talk of bargains and bones and greed. 
He gives Thenardier money. 
VALJEAN Now may I say we are agreed? 
MADAME THENARDIER That would quite fit the bill If she hadn't so often been ill. Little dear, cost us dear! Medicines are expensive, m'sieur. Not that we begrudged a sou - It's no more than we Christians must do. 
Valjean gives more money. 
THENARDIERS One thing more! One small doubt! There are treacherous people about! No offence! Please reflect! Your intentions may not be correct! 
Valjean hands over more money. 
VALJEAN No more! Here's your price! Fifteen hundred for your sacrifice. Come, Cosette, say goodbye. Let's seek out some friendlier sky. Thank you both for Cosette - It won't take you too long to forget. 
He leads Cosette to the door. 
44   EXT. INN, MONTFERMEIL - NIGHT                               44 
Valjean lifts Cosette into the waiting cab. 
VALJEAN Where I go, you will be. 
COSETTE Will you be like a Papa to me? 
VALJEAN Yes, Cosette! This is true! I'll be father and mother to you! 
The cab sets off down the road. 
45   INT. INN, MONTFERMEIL - NIGHT                               45 
Madame Thenardier takes the bunch of notes from her husband's hand and inspects them. 
THENARDIER Not bad! 
MADAME THENARDIER Not enough! 
Through the open door Thenardier sees a man on horseback rattling up to the inn. 
MADAME THENARDIER There's a copper at the door! What the devil have you done? 
Javert strides into the inn. 
JAVERT Where's the child Cosette? 
MADAME THENARDIER She's gone with a gent, Didn't tell us where they went, Didn't leave his home address. 
JAVERT Did you catch the fellow's name? 
Both Thenardiers shake their heads. 
Javert stares once, contemptuously, round the seedy inn, and departs without a further word. Thenardier goes to the doorway to watch him leave. 
MADAME THENARDIER You're a bloody fool Look at what we got. 
THENARDIER Should have struck the iron, Struck it while it's hot. 
THENARDIER/MADAME THENARDIER Next time round we'll be here And we're gonna get the lot. 
46   EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF PARIS - NIGHT                              46 
Valjean's cab, moving fast, passes down the road into the city. 
IN CAB - Valjean has one arm round Cosette to protect her from the jolting of the cab. He gazes at her as she slips into a fitful sleep. 
VALJEAN Suddenly I see Suddenly it starts When two anxious hearts Beat as one. Yesterday I was alone Today you walk beside me Something still unclear Something not yet here Has begun. Suddenly the world Seems a different place Somehow full of grace (more) 
VALJEAN (cont'd) And delight. 
How was I to know That so much love Was held inside me? Something fresh and young Something still unsung Fills the night. 
How was I to know at last That happiness can come so fast? Trusting me the way you do I'm so afraid of failing you Just a child who cannot know That danger follows where I go There are shadows everywhere And memories I cannot share 
Nevermore alone Nevermore apart You have warmed my heart Like the sun. You have brought the gift of life And love so long denied me. 
51   EXT. PLACE DE LA BASTILLE, PARIS - DAY                       51 
SUPERIMPOSE CAPTION: 
Nine years later 
The dawn light glows on a massive ELEPHANT. The monument, made of wood and plaster, now ruined and crumbling, stands on a plinth on one side of the wide open square. On the far side, the remains of the great fortress that was the Bastille. In the middle, scaffolding surrounds a half-built triumphal column, which is being erected to celebrate the new regime. 
SUPERIMPOSE CAPTION: 
Paris, 1832. 
The streets that run from the square lead in one direction to the Paris of power and wealth; in the other direction into the slums. 
The camera sweeps in and down to meet the elephant. 
A head pops out of one of the elephant's many holes - GAVROCHE, a street urchin. He gives a shrill whistle. At once a dozen more street urchins show themselves, from every crack in the monument's skin. Agile as a monkey, Gavroche drops to the ground, followed by his band. 
52   EXT. PARIS BOULEVARD - DAY                                   52 
FOLLOW GAVROCHE in as he races down a grand boulevard, dodging the crowds of strolling bourgeoisie and beggars, weaving in and out of the lines of carriages attempting to make their way in either direction. These are the conveyances of the rich, fine gilded coaches with matched horses and footmen on the back. Virtually at a standstill, they lend Gavroche a platform as he leaps from coach to coach, a street urchin dancing on the heads of the elite. 
As he goes, the poor on the pavements sing to the stony- faced rich in their golden high-sprung glory - 
BEGGARS CHORUS Look down and see the beggars at your feet! Look down and show some mercy if you can! Look down and see the sweepings of the street! (more) 
BEGGARS CHORUS (cont'd) Look down, look down, Upon your fellow man! 
The fine ladies and grand gentlemen in the carriages avert their eyes, or raise the blinds of their carriage windows to shut out the sight of the losers of their world. 
Gavroche, bounding over their heads, evading the swipes of liveried footmen, lands on the running board of one particularly grand carriage and begs/taunts the RICH OCCUPANT. 
GAVROCHE `Ow do you do? My name's Gavroche! These are my people, here's my patch. Not much to look at - nothing posh! Nothing that you'd call up to scratch. This is my school, my high society! Here in the slums of St Michel. We live on crumbs of humble piety Tough on the teeth - but what the hell! Think you're poor? Think you're free? Follow me! Follow me! 
BEGGARS CHORUS Look down and show some mercy if you can! Look down, look down, upon your fellow man! 
STILL RUNNING WITH Gavroche as he hops onto the back of another very grand carriage, the traffic now moving at last, hitching a ride on the back - one or two of his gang hop on back of carriage with him, the others run panting after to hear his political lecture. 
GAVROCHE There was a time we killed the King We tried to change the world too fast. Now we have got another King, He is no better than the last. This is the land that fought for liberty - Now when we fight we fight for bread! Here is the thing about equality - Everyone's equal when they're dead. Take your place! (more) 
GAVROCHE (cont'd) Take your chance! Vive la France! Vive la France! 
53   EXT. LAMARQUE'S HOUSE, PARIS - DAY                         53 
The carriage has reached an arch into a courtyard where a crowd of a couple of hundred is gathered outside a house of sickness. The carriage stops as its occupant wants to watch what is going on. The street is padded with straw. Many eyes gaze up at the draped windows. People cross themselves. A priest is seen hurrying into the house, accompanied by two altar boys. 
Gavroche jumps off as the carriage stops and joins the crowd. The crowd is made up of citizens of Paris, student revolutionaries, the poor and beggars. The students hand out printed leaflets and try to excite the crowd. 
STUDENTS/BEGGARS CHORUS Look down and show some mercy if you can! Look down, look down, upon your fellow man! 
COURFEYRAC When's it gonna end? 
BEGGAR 1 When we gonna live? 
JOLY Something's gotta happen now! 
BEGGAR 2 Something's gotta give! 
STUDENTS AND BEGGARS It'll come, it'll come, it'll come... It'll come, it'll come, it'll come... 
A student, ENJOLRAS, stands on a raised step, making an impassioned speech with fellow student MARIUS. The occupant of the stopped carriage is MONSIEUR GILLENORMAND, Marius' Grandfather. He is clearly deeply unhappy to see his grandson engaged in such an activity. 
In the crowd a young street girl, EPONINE, has her eyes fixed longingly on the handsome Marius. 
ENJOLRAS Where are the leaders of the land? Where are the swells who run this show? 
MARIUS Only one man, General Lamarque Speaks for the people here below! 
Marius looks towards Lamarque's house behind him. 
ENJOLRAS Lamarque is ill and fading fast - Won't last a week out, so they say. 
MARIUS With all the anger in the land, How long before the Judgement Day? 
ENJOLRAS Before we cut the fat ones down to size? 
STUDENTS Before the barricades arise? 
Mounted Police ride in to break up the crowd. 
POLICE Look down, look down, don't look us in the eye! Look down, look down, stay here and you die! 
The crowd breaks up. The students shout to the crowd: 
EPONINE (shouts from up the street) It's the police! Disappear! Run for it! It's Javert! 
The gang spill out into the street to find themselves confronted by Javert now with his men. Marius watches, as does Gavroche, drawn by the rumpus. 
JAVERT Another brawl in the square! Another stink in the air! Was there a witness to this? Well, let him speak to Javert! 
He sees man with his arm protectively round a girl but does not recognize Valjean as Valjean has averted his face. 
JAVERT Monsieur, these streets are not safe. But let these vermin beware, We'll see that justice is done! 
He turns back on the Thenardier gang in the passage. 
JAVERT Look upon this fine collection Crawled from underneath a stone. This swarm of worms and maggots Could have picked you to the bone! I know this man over here, I know his name and his trade. And on your witness, m'sieur, I'll see him suitably paid. 
He turns back to find Valjean and Cosette gone. 
JAVERT But where's the gentlemen gone? And why on earth did he run? 
THENARDIER You will have a job to find him! He's not all he seems to be - And that girl he trails behind him She's the child he stole from me! 
Marius, equally baffled, goes off in search of them. 
JAVERT Could it be he's that old jailbird That the tide now washes in? Heard my name and started running... All the omens point to him. 
Thenardier, listening, hears this all with great interest. So Valjean is a crook like him. 
JAVERT And the girl who stood beside him, When I turned they both had gone. Could he be the man I've hunted? Could it be he's Jean Valjean? 
THENARDIER In the absence of a victim, Dear Inspector, may I go? And remember when you've nicked him It was me what told you so. 
JAVERT (to himself) Let the old man keep on running I will run him off his feet! (to the crowd) Everyone about your business! 
(to Gavroche) Clear this garbage off the street! 
Gavroche is sitting on a horse trough and falls back into it when Javert surprises him. 
He is furious. He sings to Javert's departing back, and to Marius who is close by. 
GAVROCHE That inspector thinks he's something But it's me who runs this town! And my theatre never closes And the curtain's never down! Trust Gavroche! Have no fear! You can always find me here! 
EPONINE Cosette! Now I remember... Cosette! How can it be? We were children together. Look what's become of me. 
She turns back to find Marius gazing down the street. 
MARIUS Eponine! Who was that girl? 
EPONINE That bourgeois two-a-penny thing! 
MARIUS Eponine, find her for me! 
EPONINE What will you give me? 
MARIUS Anything! 
EPONINE Got you all excited now, But God knows what you see in her. Aren't you all delighted now? No, I don't want your money, sir. 
MARIUS Eponine, do this for me, Discover where she lives. But careful how you go - Don't let your father know. Eponine! I'm lost until she's found. 
EPONINE You see? I told you so! There's lots of things I know! Eponine, she knows her way around. 
56-61   SCENES OMITTED                                         56-61 
62      EXT. PARIS POLICE HQ - NIGHT                                 62 
WIDE of the Police Headquarters on the Isle de la Cite: a huge bureaucracy. The camera finds Javert standing inside looking out of a door leading onto the roof. As he sings he walks out onto the roof and stands by the symbol of the HQ, a monumental stone eagle. He looks down at the lights reflected in the river below. Then up at the great city. Javert too has a God, and this is his prayer. 
JAVERT There, out in the darkness A fugitive running Running from God Fallen from grace - God be my witness I never shall yield Till we come face to face - Till we come face to face... 
He knows his way in the dark Mine is the way of the Lord Those who follow the path of the righteous Shall have their reward And if they fall As Lucifer fell - The flame! 
The sword! Stars in your multitudes! Scarce to be counted Filling the darkness With order and light - You are the sentinels Silent and sure Keeping watch in the night - Keeping watch in the night... 
You know your place in the sky You hold your course (more) 
JAVERT (cont'd) And your aim And each in your season Returns and returns And is always the same And if you fall As Lucifer fell You fall In flame! 
And so it must be, and so it is written On the doorway to paradise That those who falter And those who fall Must pay the price! 
Lord, let me find him That I may see him Safe behind bars! I will never rest till then! This I swear This I swear by the stars! 
Javert stands silhouetted against the stars, his arms raised up to the night sky. 
63   EXT. RUE DE LA CHANVRERIE - NIGHT                             63 
MARIUS Do I stay and do I dare? 
ENJOLRAS (from top of stairs, for Grantaire's benefit) Will you take your place with me? 
Grantaire rather reluctantly goes upstairs. 
ALL The time is now! The day is here! One day more! 
81   INT. PARIS POLICE HQ - NIGHT                                 81 
Javert is briefing a hundred uniformed police about the coming day in a grand ornate old room at Police Headquarters. 
JAVERT One day more to revolution. We will nip it in the bud. We'll be ready for these schoolboys. They will wet themselves with blood! 
82   INT. CARRIAGE - NIGHT                                        82 
VALJEAN One day more! 
83   INT. CAFÉ MUSAIN - GROUND & 1ST FLOOR - NIGHT                83 
Monsieur and Madame Thenardier are in the ground-floor bar, slyly watching a student smuggling some rifles up the stairs disguised in a piece of cloth. 
Joly takes a tray and collects empty tankards. As he ascends the stairs, Madame Hucheloup tries to get him to give the tankards back. 
THENARDIERS Watch'em run amuck! Catch'em as they fall! Never know your luck When there's a free-for-all. Here a little dip, There a little touch - Most of them are goners So they won't miss much! 
The drinkers in the bar raise their glasses to the students with their rifles. The students appeal to them. Grantaire is drunk already. Joly starts to melt the tankards in a pot to make more bullets. Marius enters the ground floor and takes the red flag from Madame Hucheloup that she has just finished. The citizens on the ground floor join the students. 
STUDENTS/CROWD One day to a new beginning! Raise the flag of freedom high! Every man will be a king! Every man will be a king! There's a new world for the winning! There's a new world to be won! Do you hear the people sing? 
Marius enters the first floor to join them at last. 
MARIUS My place is here! I fight with you! 
84   INT/EXT. RUE DE L'HOMME ARMEE/RUE DE LA CHANVRERIE/CAFÉ     84 MUSAIN GROUND & 1ST FLOOR/POLICE STATION - NIGHT 
Valjean and Cosette arrive at their new hideout - 
Marius ties the red flag onto a flagpole - 
VALJEAN One day more! 
COSETTE/MARIUS I did not live until today How can I live when we are parted? 
Eponine outside the café, gazing longingly towards Marius - 
EPONINE One more day on my own... 
Javert in the police station to his men - 
JAVERT I will join these people's heroes I will follow where they go. I will learn their little secrets, I will know the things they know. 
VALJEAN/JAVERT One day more! 
MARIUS/COSETTE Tomorrow you'll be worlds away And yet with you my world has started. 
JAVERT One more day to revolution We will nip it in the bud We'll be ready for these schoolboys - 
THENARDIERS Watch'em run amuck Catch'em as they fall Never know your luck When there's a free-for-all! 
VALJEAN Tomorrow we'll be far away. 
VALJEAN/JAVERT Tomorrow is the judgement day. 
ALL Tomorrow we'll discover What our God in heaven has in store - One more dawn! One more day! One day more! 
We pull back from Enjolras and Marius holding their flag at the first floor window with the students beyond them to see that citizens have spilled out of the Cafe Musain into the street and have all joined in the final chorus. 
85   EXT. PARIS STREETS - DAY                                     85 
All is still. Then comes the soft beating of draped drums. The tramp of feet. 
All down the streets, waiting, the silent faces of the poor. Among them we see Enjolras, Marius, and the radical students. 
Police and national guardsmen control the growing crowds. 
Now into view come the leaders of a great FUNERAL PROCESSION. An entire battalion of infantry, marching with weapons reversed. A column of black-suited dignitaries carrying branches of laurel. A division of Cavalry rides in front, behind a section of military drummers who drum a military tatoo. 
INTO FRAME comes a team of black horses stepping slowly, black plumes nodding, drawing behind them a gun carriage draped in the tricolour flag. On the carriage stands a COFFIN. 
Softly, in time with the drums, the watching people begin to sing. 
CROWD Do you hear the people sing Singing the song of angry men? It is the music of a people Who will not be slaves again! 
The barricade is now complete: an impressive wall up to twelve feet high, with one heavily guarded section that can be wheeled open to allow access. Two smaller barricades protect the left and right side of the cafe. Enjolras climbs halfway up the main barricade and turns to his little army. Grantaire prises the final piece of Madame Hucheloup's furniture from her arms - her favourite sewing armchair - and adds it to the barricade. As the men sing she steals it back defiantly. 
ENJOLRAS Red, the blood of angry men! 
ALL Black, the dark of ages past! Red, a world about to dawn! Black, the night that ends at last! 
87A   EXT. BARRICADE - NIGHT                                     87A 
It is night. The students have been waiting for hours. 
A single flaming torch atop the barricade caged in by cobbles underlights a fluttering red flag. 
There is no sign yet of any opposition. 
A boy climbs down from sentry duty on the barricade. Marius realizes its Eponine. She sits down with her back to him. 
MARIUS Hey, little boy, what's this I see? God Eponine the things you do! 
EPONINE I know this is no place for me, Still I would rather be with you! 
MARIUS Get out before the trouble starts! Get out, `Ponine, you might get shot! 
EPONINE I've got you worried now, I have! That shows you like me quite a lot... 
MARIUS Get Out! 
Joly, sentry on the main barricade, sees a figure approach. 
JOLY He's back! 
Javert, still in his disguise as a rebel, is let back through the guarded `gate' into the barricaded street. 
JAVERT Listen, my friends, I have done as I said. I have been to their lines, I have counted each man. I will tell what I can. Better be warned They have armies to spare And our danger is real - We will need all our cunning To bring them to heel. 
ENJOLRAS Have faith! If you know what their movements are We'll spoil their game. There are ways that a people can fight - We shall overcome their power! 
JAVERT I have overheard their plans. There will be no attack tonight. They intend to starve you out Before they start a proper fight - Concentrate their force, Hit us when it's light - 
GAVROCHE Liar! 
They all look up. There's Gavroche, on the top of the barricade. 
GAVROCHE Good evening, dear Inspector. Lovely evening, my dear! I know this man, my friends. His name's Inspector Javert! So don't believe a word he says Cause none of it's true. This only goes to show What little people can do. 
Guns swing round to aim at Javert. He stares back in defiance. 
Gavroche comes dancing down the barricade to Courfeyrac's delighted embrace. 
COURFEYRAC Bravo, little Gavroche! You're the top of the class! 
Gavroche grabs Grantaire's red cap and puts it on his own head, mimicking the students. 
PROUVAIRE So what are we going to do With this snake in the grass? 
Enjolras faces Javert. 
ENJOLRAS Tie this man and take him To the tavern in there! The people will decide your fate, Inspector Javert! 
JAVERT Shoot me now or shoot me later - Every schoolboy to his sport! Death to each and every traitor! I renounce your people's court! 
ENJOLRAS Take this man. Bring him through. There is work we have to do. 
Javert is led into the cafe. As they pass through the front door only one student is holding Javert. Seizing his opportunity, Javert breaks free and the students have to subdue him by force. Javert is on his knees and is being tied to the staircase. 
ENJOLRAS When are they coming!? 
Silence. 
Suddenly, out of the darkness, the students and citizens at the barricade here an ominous distant sound. The sound of marching feet, hundreds of men, marching in unison. First soft, then building louder and louder, closer and closer. Boots on cobbles. The sound comes right into the end of the street. 
Enjolras and all the students man the main barricade. 
Silence. 
They peer over the barricade. In the pitch blackness, all they can make out is hundreds of gossamer thin slivers. These are bayonets and musket barrels dimly lit by the reflection from the torch. 
A voice shouts out from the darkness. 
ARMY OFFICER Who's there? 
At the same time we hear the clatter of guns being levelled. 
ENJOLRAS French Revolution. 
Eponine dies in Marius's arms. 
Marius looks up at the others, his eyes full of tears. 
ENJOLRAS They were the first to fall. The first to fall upon this barricade. 
MARIUS Her name was Eponine! Her life was cold and dark, yet she was unafraid! 
COMBEFERRE We fight here in her name... 
PROUVAIRE She will not die in vain... 
LESGLES She will not be betrayed... 
They pick up Eponine's body and carry her into the tavern. 
COURFEYRAC (to Gavroche) Are you alright? 
GAVROCHE That was my sister. 
88   EXT. BARRICADE - NIGHT                                       88 
Marius reads the letter Eponine has given him. He takes out pencil and paper and writes a note. Looking round, he sees Gavroche. 
MARIUS Gavroche! Do you know the Rue de l'Homme Armé? 
GAVROCHE Course I do! 
MARIUS Will you take this for me? 
He holds out his note. 
89   INT. INN, RUE DE L'HOMME ARMEE, PARIS - NIGHT               89 
The LANDLADY climbs the stairs, followed by Gavroche. The landlady indicates the door, and Gavroche knocks boldly. The door opens a crack to reveal a cautious Valjean. 
GAVROCHE Letter for Cosette. 
VALJEAN I'll take it. 
Gavroche holds out the letter with one hand, not quite giving it, the other hand open for a tip. 
Valjean gives him a coin, which he pockets as he hands over the letter. 
GAVROCHE Something for you, something for me. Who needs charity? 
90   INT. VALJEAN'S ROOM, LODGING HOUSE - NIGHT                  90 
ON VALJEAN - As he reads the note. 
VALJEAN `Dearest Cosette, you have entered my soul And soon you will be gone. Can it be only a day since we met And the world was reborn? If I should fall in the battle to come Let this be my goodbye. Now that I know you love me as well It is harder to die. I pray that God will bring me home To be with you. Pray for your Marius. He prays for you.' 
He looks up, deeply distressed. He can't bear the thought of losing Cosette. 
VALJEAN They haven't got a chance, these boys They almost certainly will die She'll be alone And she will need me all the more And we will go on as before When he is gone I dare not think like this I must find this boy 
91   EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT                                   91 
Valjean walks the streets, not caring where he goes, struggling with his tormented thoughts. He sees a barricade being dismantled. And bodies. 
Suddenly he knows what he's going to do. He sees a dead soldier. He takes his jacket and swiftly pulls it on. 
He continues on his way in the dark. 
Looking up he sees that he's been walking all the time towards the very barricade where Marius waits. 
Now looking like a soldier, he passes unchallenged through their lines, and into the shadows. 
As he passes, he notices two soldiers climbing up onto the rooftops. 
92   EXT. BARRICADE - NIGHT                                       92 
Glimpses through the barricade of a lone figure approaching from the far end of the narrow street. 
The figure comes into lamp light. It's Valjean, in the soldier's jacket. The student sentries level their guns. Gavroche jumps up. 
VALJEAN Don't shoot! 
JOLY Here comes a man in uniform! What brings you to this place? 
VALJEAN I come here as a volunteer. 
JOLY Approach and show your face! 
ENJOLRAS Marius, rest. 
Grantaire drunkenly starts singing a drinking song and it is taken up more seriously by Feuilly. Bottles are passed round. 
GRANTAIRE Drink with me to days gone by! 
FEUILLY Sing with me the songs we knew! 
PROUVAIRE Here's to pretty girls Who went to our heads! 
JOLY Here's to witty girls Who went to our beds! 
STUDENTS Here's to them - (Marius sings to Valjean) And here's to you! 
GRANTAIRE Drink with me to days gone by! Can it be you fear to die? Will the world remember you when you fall? Can it be your death Means nothing at all? Is your life just one more lie? 
Grantaire glares at Enjolras and enters the cafe. 
ALL Drink with me To days gone by! To the life That used to be! At the shrine of friendship Never say die... Let the wine of friendship Never run dry! Here's to you And here's to me! 
Valjean is moving through the cafe when he hears Marius through a window. He moves to the window. Marius sits beneath it. 
MARIUS Do I care if I should die Now she goes across the sea? Life without Cosette Means nothing at all.. Please don't weep, Cosette, Should Marius fall. Will you weep, Cosette, For me? 
Valjean listens to Marius's song, and he's moved. 
93   EXT. BARRICADE/ INT. CAFE MUSAIN - NIGHT                      93 
Look-outs keep watch at either end of the barricaded street. Many of the rest of the rebels are sleeping. 
Valjean paces, unable to sleep, inside the cafe. Dead bodies are lined up on the ground floor. He comes to a stop, and gazes on Marius as he sleeps through the window. 
VALJEAN God on high Hear my prayer (more) 
VALJEAN (cont'd) In my need You have always been there. He is young He's afraid Let him rest Heaven blessed. Bring him home Bring him home Bring him home! He's like the son I might have known If God had granted me a son. The summers die One by one How soon they fly On and on And I am old And will be gone. Bring him peace Bring him joy He is young He is only a boy. You can take You can give Let him be Let him live, If I die, let me die Let him live Bring him home Bring him home Bring him home! 
Valjean is now kneeling next to the sleeping Marius. 
CRANE UP AND UP - Seeing the little world of the barricaded street now surrounded by waiting soldiers - and the streets round them packed with soldiers in their thousands, so many that we know the little band can never win. 
CRANE UP AND UP until the barricade and the army that entraps it has become a small pool of darkness in the centre of the bright lights of Paris. 
94   EXT. PARIS - DAWN                                             94 
The sun still below the rooftops. Every house is tightly shuttered. 
95   INT. CAFE MUSAIN - DAWN                                       95 
Grantaire is fast asleep in the upstairs room, dead drunk. 
96   EXT. BARRICADE - DAWN                                      96 
Enjolras re-enters the barricade through the secret gate. He has been on a reconnaissance. He looks at the street. No one is stirring, but for a single shutter which opens a crack - a face peeps - and it closes again. Below him the students are up and getting ready. 
ENJOLRAS The people have not stirred. 
COURFEYRAC Yet we will not abandon those Who still live in fear. 
ENJOLRAS The people have not heard, Yet we will not abandon those who cannot hear. Let us not waste lives! Let all who wish to Go from here! 
There is silence. Uncertainty. Yet no one moves to go. 
GAVROCHE (from top of barricade) Do you hear the people sing 
GAVROCHE/COURFEYRAC Singing the song of angry men 
STUDENTS/CITIZENS (joining) It is the music of the people Who will not be slaves again When the beating of your heart Echoes the beating of the drums There is a life about to start When tomorrow comes! 
Under this: 
FEUILLY Enjolras! Ammunition's short. 
MARIUS I will go into the streets. There are bodies all around. Ammunition to be had. Lots of bullets to be found. 
ENJOLRAS I can't let you go. 
VALJEAN Let me go! He's no more than a boy. I am old. I have nothing to fear. 
Gavroche is already climbing the barricade under cover of the smoke. 
GAVROCHE I volunteer! 
COURFEYRAC Come back, Gavroche! Don't you dare! 
103   EXT. BACK ALLEY - DAY                                       103 
Valjean carries Marius down a long narrow alley that runs between the backs of tall houses. The alley turns a corner - and there ahead is a dead end. Behind him, the stamp of soldiers' boots. Ahead, no way out. 
Then his searching gaze falls on an iron grating in the ground. A storm drain. 
ON THE SOLDIERS - As they come round the corner into the end of the alley. They look round. It's empty. 
SOLDIER Nothing here! 
The soldiers depart. A moment of silence. 
Then into the alley's end steps Javert. Not so easily fooled. He walks all the way to the end, and looks round. He sees the drain at his feet. He sees the signs that the grating has been lifted. 
He stoops, and tries to lift it. It's far too heavy for him. 
He straightens up and looks round, calculating. Where does the drain lead? 
104   INT. PARIS SEWERS - DAY                                     104 
Valjean is pulling Marius after him down a tight sloping pipe, where dark water races. Suddenly they start to slide, then drop through a vent into a wide sewage tunnel. Faint light reflecting off the slime of curving tunnel walls. The skitter of rats. Sodden forms floating by: dead bodies. 
Valjean carries Marius down the tunnel, moving as fast as he can, losing strength all the time. He reaches an intersection where four sewers meet. Light falls through distant gratings. One of the four sewers is dry. Here he lets his burden down, and himself sinks to the slimy ground to rest. He lets his eyes close. 
A voice echoes in the shadows. 
THENARDIER Here's a hint of gold Stuck into a tooth - Pardon me, m'sieur, You won't be needing it no more. Shouldn't be too hard to sell. 
A figure coming closer. A sewer thief, robbing corpses. No sign of life in either Valjean or Marius. 
THENARDIER Well, someone's got to clean'em up, my friends, Before the little harvest Disappears into the mud. Someone's got to collect their odds and ends When the gutters run with blood. 
Now we see the thief is Thenardier. He finds a ring on Marius's finger and pulls it off. 
THENARDIER Here's a tasty ring Pretty little thing Heart's no longer going And he's lived his little time, But his watch is ticking yet. 
It's a world where the dog eats the dog. Where they kill for the bones in the street. And God in his heaven, He don't interfere Cos he's dead as the stiff at my feet! I raise my eyes to see the heavens And only the moon looks down. The harvest moon shines down! 
Valjean wakes, rears up, seizes Thenardier by the arm, slams him against the sewer wall. 
VALJEAN How do I get out of here? 
THENARDIER There! That way! 
Valjean drops him, picks Marius up once more, and sets off. 
Thenardier stares after them, grinning. He's sent then the wrong way. 
LATER - Valjean in the sewers, Marius on his back, and they're sinking ever deeper into the slimy water. 
As he feels himself sink, Valjean holds Marius up in his arms and forges on, chest deep, lifting the younger man above his head. Still he sinks, until his face is half- submerged and he's gagging in the filth. He stumbles, and suddenly he's sunk beneath the surface, and Marius is dropping - 
Then up he bursts again, face black with slime, eyes burning with his refusal to be beaten. 
LATER - Valjean staggers down the endless sewers, Marius on his back. But all the time he can hear, closer now, the rushing sound of the river. 
Round a bend and at last - moonlight ahead. 
He drags himself on through the shallow running water towards the moonlight. 
He reaches the exit at last. Before him the river. 
105   EXT. RIVER EMBANKMENT, PARIS - NIGHT                          105 
Valjean, crusted with slime, heaves Marius out of the sewer onto the embankment that runs beside the river. 
He looks up. There, staring at him, is Javert. 
Valjean rises slowly. Heaves Marius up onto his back once more. The strain of the night is showing. He's a man near the end of his strength. 
VALJEAN It's you, Javert! I knew you wouldn't wait too long. The faithful servant at his post once more. This man's done no wrong. And he needs his family's care. 
JAVERT I warned you I would not give in! I won't be swayed! 
VALJEAN Another hour yet And then I'm yours And all our debts are paid. 
JAVERT The man of mercy comes again And talks of justice! 
VALJEAN Come, time is running short - Look down, Javert! He's standing in his grave! 
He starts to move past Javert. 
Javert draws his pistol and holds it to Valjean's head. 
108   INT. CAFÉ MUSAIN - DAY                                        108 
Marius makes his way slowly up the stairs to the upper room. He's still weak from his wounds. He enters the room where his friends died, and looks round. He sinks into a chair. 
MARIUS There's a grief that can't be spoken There's a pain goes on and on Empty chairs at empty tables Now my friends are dead and gone. 
He sees the bloodstain on the wall beneath the window sill. The blood of Enjolras. 
MARIUS Here they talked of revolution Here it was they lit the flame Here they sang about tomorrow (more) 
MARIUS (cont'd) And tomorrow never came... 
From the table in the corner They could see a world reborn And they rose with voices ringing And I can hear them now! The very words that they had sung Became their last communion On the lonely barricade at dawn. 
He looks out of the window at what's left of the barricade. He seems to see again the brave doomed defence, the smoke and the gunfire, the young men falling. 
MARIUS Oh my friends, my friends, forgive me That I live and you are gone There's a grief that can't be spoken There's a pain goes on and on... 
Phantom faces at the window Phantom shadows on the floor Empty chairs at empty tables Where my friends will meet no more. 
Oh my friends, my friends, don't ask me What your sacrifice was for Empty chairs at empty tables Where my friends will sing no more. 
Slowly he rises from the chair and turns to the doorway. There stands Cosette, waiting for him. 
109   INT. MARIUS'S FAMILY HOUSE, PARIS - DAY                    109 
Cosette holds Marius, supporting him, as he enters the house. 
COSETTE Every day You walk with stronger step, You walk with longer step. The worst is over. 
MARIUS Every day I wonder every day Who it was brought me here From the barricade. 
Cosette leads him into the room where Valjean and Gillenormand wait. 
COSETTE Don't think about it, Marius! With all the years ahead of us! I will never go away And we will be together Every day. Every day We'll remember that night And the vow that we made. 
As Valjean and Gillenormand look on, Marius and Cosette sing their love to each other. 
COSETTE A heart full of love A night full of you The words are old But always true. 
VALJEAN She was never mine to keep She is youthful, she is free... 
MARIUS Cosette, Cosette! 
COSETTE I saw you waiting and I knew - 
GILLENORMAND Thank God, thank God you are here! Thank God, thank God you are home! 
MARIUS Waiting for you! At your feet! 
COSETTE At your call! 
VALJEAN/GILLENORMAND Love is the garden of the young Let it be Let it be! A heart full of love This I give you this day. 
MARIUS/COSETTE And it wasn't a dream Not a dream after all. 
110   INT. PARLOUR, MARIUS'S FAMILY HOUSE - DAY                  110 
Marius stands before Valjean, alone in this more private room. 
MARIUS M'sieur, this is a day I never can forget. Is gratitude enough For giving me Cosette? Your home shall be with us And not a day shall pass But we will prove our love To you, whom we shall call A father to us both, A father to us all. 
VALJEAN Not another word, my son. There's something now that must be done... 
He's prepared himself to make this confession, but it's still hard. 
VALJEAN There lived a man whose name was Jean Valjean. He stole some bread to save his sister's son For nineteen winters served his time In sweat he washed away his crime. 
Marius hears this with shock. 
VALJEAN Years ago, He broke parole and lived a life apart... How could he tell Cosette and break her heart? It's for Cosette this must be faced: If he is caught, she is disgraced... The time has come to journey on, And from this day he must be gone! Who am I? Who am I? 
MARIUS You're Jean Valjean! 
Marius can't conceal that he's disturbed by this revelation. 
MARIUS Monsieur, you cannot leave! Whatever I tell my beloved Cosette She will never believe me. 
VALJEAN Make her believe I have gone on a journey A long way away. Tell her my heart was too full for farewells - It is better this way. Promise me, Monsieur, Cosette will never know... 
MARIUS I give my word. 
VALJEAN ...What I have spoken, why I must go. 
Marius rushes to Cosette and we see him telling her where Valjean is. They hurry away. 
Thenardier clambers to his feet, helped by his wife. He gestures to the band to continue. They stand by the tiered wedding cake. As Thenardier recovers his composure, Madame Thenardier steals one then two pillars from the cake so it collapses on the floor. She then pushes it under the table with her foot. "LES MISERABLES" BLUE REVISIONS 20.5.2012            121. 
THENARDIER Ain't it a laugh? Ain't it a treat? Hob-nobbin' here Among the elite? Here comes a prince There goes a Jew This one's a queer But what can you do? (pulling Madame Thenardier onto the dance floor) Paris at my feet! Paris in the dust! And here's me breaking bread With the upper crust - 
As he pivots Madame Thenardier, stolen silver drops out from Madame Thenardier's dress. The music stops dead in the clatter. The Thenardiers look up, as if implying that the silver dropped from the ceiling. The dance continues. Monsieur Gillenormand motions to the Majordomo to remove these unwanted guests. 
THENARDIER Beggar at the feast! Master of the dance! Life is easy pickings If you grab your chance! 
MADAME THENARDIER Everywhere you go Law-abiding folk Doing what is decent 
THENARDIER But they're mostly broke! 
MADAME THENARDIER Singing to the Lord on Sundays 
THENARDIER Praying for the gifts he'll send - 
THENARDIER/MADAME THENARDIER But we're the ones who take it - We're the ones who make it in the end! 
The Thenardiers are carried off, singing as they go. 
THENARDIER Watch the buggers dance 
MADAME THENARDIER Watch'em till they drop! "LES MISERABLES" BLUE REVISIONS 20.5.2012            121A. 
THENARDIER/MADAME THENARDIER Keep your wits about you And you stand on top! 
THENARDIER Masters of the land 
MADAME THENARDIER Always get our share 
THENARDIER/MADAME THENARDIER Clear away the barricades And we're still there! We know where the wind is blowing Money is the stuff we smell - And when we're rich as Croesus, Jesus! Won't we see you all in hell! 
As they are thrown out, the Thenardiers steal a tiara and a candlestick. "LES MISERABLES" BLUE REVISIONS 20.5.2012          122. 
115     EXT. CONVENT, PARIS - NIGHT                              115 
IN ON A WINDOW - Where two candle burn. 
116     INT. CONVENT CHAPEL, PARIS - NIGHT                       116 
Valjean prays in the chapel, on his knees. He's very weak. 
Next to the crucifix on the altar are Valjean's two silver candlesticks, in which two candles burn. 
VALJEAN Alone I wait in the shadows I count the hours till I can sleep. I dreamed a dream Cosette stood by It made her weep To know I die... Alone at the end of the day Upon this wedding night I pray Take these children, my Lord, to thy embrace And show them grace... God on high Hear my prayer Take me now To thy care Where you are Let me be Take me now Take me there Bring me home Bring me home! 
VALJEAN is joined by the ghost of Fantine. She takes his hand as he prays. 
FANTINE M'sieur I bless your name... 
VALJEAN I am ready, Fantine... 
FANTINE M'sieur lay down your burden... 
VALJEAN At the end of my days... 
FANTINE You raised my child in love, 
VALJEAN She's the best of my life... 
FANTINE And you will be with God. 
116A   EXT. CONVENT CLOISTERS - NIGHT                             116A 
Cosette and Marius rush round the cloisters and enter the chapel in the middle of the cloisters. 
116B   INT. CONVENT CHAPEL - NIGHT                                116B 
The sound of the door opening. Valjean looks round. It's Cosette entering, followed by Marius. 
VALJEAN Cosette? 
Tears form in his eyes. Cosette goes to him, kneels before him, takes him in her arms. 
COSETTE Papa, papa, I do not understand - Are you all right? Why did you go away? 
VALJEAN Cosette, my child! Am I forgiven now? Thank God, thank God, I've lived to see this day! 
Marius comes to him. 
MARIUS It's you who must forgive a thoughtless fool! It's you who must forgive a thankless man! It's thanks to you that I am living, And again I lay down my life at your feet. Cosette, your father is a saint! When they wounded me He took me from the barricade, Carried like a babe, And brought me home to you! 
