LIFE OF PI 
Written by 
David Magee 
Based on the original novel by 
Yann Martel 
1   EXT. PONDICHERRY ZOO, INDIA, 1961 - DAY                      1 
CREDITS OVER: a magical fairy tale world in collage - images of fantastic creatures striped and spotted, hoofed and horned. 
Goats and warthogs mingle in an open field; a baby giraffe tries to reach leaves over a fence; rhinos roll happily in rich red mud, looking like giant muddy boulders, while nearby, black and white Malayan tapirs cool themselves in watering holes. 
Exotic monkeys with comical faces cling lovingly to one another, swing from trees, climb over one another, prance and screech; a probiscus monkey with a 'Jimmy Durante' nose pointing out through the plane of the screen. Flamingoes strut about in the aviary, their pink feathers reflected in the water. 
A sloth droops lazily from a tree branch, unfazed, while a nearby hummingbird zips manically from flower to flower like Tinkerbell... 
... the Pondicherry zoo is a children's paradise nestled in a botanical garden. 
WRITER (V.O.) You were raised in a zoo? 
3   EXT. PONDICHERRY ZOO, INDIA, 1961 - DAY                      3 
There's a flurry of activity in the animal clinic behind a monitor lizard that wanders the main path. ZOO WORKERS gather in the doorway, talking excitedly. 
No one notices the lizard. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) Born and raised in Pondicherry, in what was the French part of India. My father owned the zoo, and I was delivered on short notice by a herpetologist who was there to check on the Bengal Monitor Lizard. 
The zoo owner (FATHER - late 20s) hurries down the path as quickly as his heavy leg brace will allow and hurries into the animal clinic. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) Mother and I were both healthy... 
The lizard crawls away. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) but the poor lizard escaped and was trampled by a frightened cassowary... 
5   INT. PI'S HOME, KITCHEN, MONTREAL - DAY                       5 
A modest row house. There is a French influence to the decor, along with books and artwork that celebrate the spiritual. 
15   EXT. GEOGRAPHY CLASS, 1973 - DAY                             15 
Class is held out of doors in a courtyard. Pi, at a portable chalkboard, writes and says: 3.14159265358979323846. 
PI (12) These are the first twenty decimal places of Pi. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) My last class of the day was Mathematics.... 
16   INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY, 1973 - DAY                              16 
A LIBRARIAN runs down the hall, a huge book tucked under his arm, followed by dozens of students. He reaches Pi's class, pushes his way through the crowd. 
LIBRARIAN Slowly, Slowly! Slowly, Slowly! 
17   INT. MATH CLASS, 1973 - CONTINUOUS                           17 
Close on Pi writing digits. Pull back - the entire chalkboard is filled with numbers. All watching are stunned. The librarian compares Pi's writing to the math book. 
LIBRARIAN It is right... He's really doing this! 
Students clap and cheer - even the bullies. Several chant along with him as he writes: 
ALL 1! 4! 9! 3! 1! PI! PI! PI! 
ADULT PI (VO) By the end of that day, I was Pi Patel, school legend. 
18   INT. PI'S KITCHEN - DAY                               18 
The writer laughs, then ventures onto a new topic. 
WRITER Mamaji tells me you're a legend among sailors, too. Out there all alone - 
ADULT PI I don't even know how to sail. And I wasn't alone out there. Richard Parker was with me. 
WRITER Richard Parker...? Mamaji didn't tell me everything. He just said I should look you up when I got back to Montreal. 
ADULT PI So what were you doing in Pondicherry? 
WRITER Writing a novel. 
ADULT PI By the way, I enjoyed your first book. The new one, is it set in India? 
WRITER No, Portugal, actually. But it's cheaper living in India. 
18   INT. PI'S HOME - CONTINUED                                   18 
ADULT PI When the French handed Pondicherry back to us in 1954, the town decided that some sort of commemoration was in order. 
25   EXT. ZOO ENTRANCE, 1955 - DAY                                25 
The sign on the gate reads: "JARDIN BOTANIQUE DE PONDICHERRY." 
ADULT PI (V.O.) My father, who was a clever businessman, came up with one. (MORE) 
ADULT PI (V.O.) (CONT'D) He ran a hotel, and he got the idea to open a zoo in the local Botanical Gardens instead. 
Father oversees a SIGN PAINTER as the painter who adds the words 'AND ZOO' to the sign. 
26   EXT. THE NURSERY - CONTINUOUS                                26 
WOMEN WORKERS plant and dig in the Botanical Gardens nursery. As MOTHER (refined - 20's) passes by, she admonishes a worker who pulls up a sapling with too much force. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) As it also happened, my mother was a botanist in the Gardens. They met, married, and a year later my brother Ravi was born. I came two years after that. 
27   INT. PI'S HOME, OUTER ROOM, MONTREAL - DAY                   27 
WRITER It sounds magical, growing up in- 
The Writer stops, realizing that Pi's eyes are closed in prayer. The Writer watches in awkward silence, his head halfbowed. 
ADULT PI Amen. Let's eat. 
WRITER I didn't know Hindus said 'amen.' 
ADULT PI (As he serves food:) Catholic Hindus do. 
WRITER Catholic Hindus? 
ADULT PI We get to feel guilty before hundreds of gods instead of just one. 
WRITER But you're a Hindu first? 
PI None of us knows God    until someone introduces us. I was    first introduced to God as    a Hindu. There are 330 million gods    in the Hindu religion - how can I    not come to know a few of them? 
28   EXT. OUTSIDE THE PATEL HOME, 1966 - NIGHT                 28 
YOUNG PI (5) and Ravi listen to Mother quietly singing a gentle tune as she kneels before their home, using rice powder to draw a Kolam pattern - a geometric design meant to bring the home prosperity. 
Ravi walks up to Pi, coins in hand, and whispers. 
RAVI (14) Challenge. I'll give you two rupees. Run into that church and drink the Holy water. 
37   INT. CATHOLIC CHURCH, 1973 - DAY                             37 
Pi leans down to the font beside the door and drinks. He's about to leave again when he notices the stations of the cross depicted on plaques that encircle the church. 
PRIEST You must be thirsty. Here, I brought you this. 
Not knowing what else to do, Pi takes the glass and drinks. An awkward pause as he searches for something - anything - to say. He finally points up to one of the paintings. 
PI Why would a god do that? Why would he send his own son to suffer for the sins of ordinary people? 
The Priest smiles down upon Pi. 
PRIEST Because He loves us. God made Himself approachable to us - human - so we could understand Him. (MORE) 
PRIEST (CONT'D) We can't understand God in all His perfection, but we can understand God's son and His suffering as we would a brother's. 
38   INT. PI'S DINING ROOM, MONTREAL - INTERCUT/CONTINUOUS      38 
ADULT PI That made no sense. Sacrificing the innocent to atone for the sins of the guilty? What kind of love is that? 
39   EXT. PLANTATION HOME, MUNNAR, 1973 - DAY                   39 
Ravi and other kids play cricket. Pi sits by a stream, lost in thought. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) But this Son - I couldn't get Him out of my head. 
41   INT. CATHOLIC CHURCH, MUNNAR, 1973 - DAY 41                41 
Pi stands quizzing the priest near the altar. 
PI If God is so perfect and we're not, why would He want to create all this? Why does He need us at all? 
PRIEST All you have to know is that He loves us. "God so loved the world that He gave His only Son." This Son taught us to love one another... 
The priest's words continue as Pi leans in, listening. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) The more I listened to the priest, the more I came to like this Son of God. 
42   INT. PI'S BEDROOM, 1973 - DAY                              42 
MOTHER That is true. Your father is right. Science can teach us more about what's out there - (With a hand to her heart:) - but not what is in here. Art, music, literature - they all spring from our faith. 
FATHER Some eat meat, some eat vegetable. I do not expect us all to agree about everything. But I would much rather have you believe in something I don't agree with than to accept everything blindly. And that begins with thinking rationally. Do you understand? 
Pi nods. 
FATHER (CONT'D) Good. 
Pause. 
PI I would like to be baptized. 
Father and Mother react. Ravi stifles a laugh. 
46   EXT. PI'S STREET - DAY                                    46 
Pi walks down the front steps of his row house, stretching and rubbing his belly at the end of a good meal. The writer follows. 
WRITER So you're a Christian and a Muslim? 
ADULT PI And a Hindu, of course. 
WRITER And a Jew, I suppose? 
ADULT PI Oh, well, I do teach a course on the Kabbalah at the University. And why not? Faith is a house with many rooms. 
WRITER But no room for doubt? 
ADULT PI Plenty. On every floor. Doubt is useful. It keeps faith a living thing. After all, you can't know the strength of your faith until it's been tested. 
47   INT. THE TIGER FEEDING AREA, 1973, PART 1   - DAY            47 
Pi (12) and Ravi (14) cross into a drab cement enclosure behind the tiger exhibit. A hallway with closed gates at both ends leads out to the exhibit. 
RAVI Where's Selvam? We shouldn't be in here without him. 
PI Stop worrying. I have seen him do this a thousand times. I want to meet our new tiger. 
He drops meat on the floor by the bars. 
RAVI Pi!... 
PI Hello! Richard Parker! 
FATHER (In Tamil:) Do it. Go ahead. 
Selvam sets the goat down and ties a piece of rope around the animal's neck. 
FATHER (CONT'D) (To the boys:) Animals don't think like we do; people who forget that get themselves killed. That tiger is not your friend. When you look into his eyes, you are seeing your own emotions reflected back at you - nothing else. 
Selvam ties the goat to the bars at the gate area where Pi had been about to feed Richard Parker. 
RAVI (Quietly, to Pi:) Don't be stupid! Say you're sorry. 
Mother arrives at the gate with a WOMAN WORKER and rushes to Pi's side. 
MOTHER What have you done, Piscine? You know what your father said about coming back here. 
PI I'm sorry. I was... 
Mother turns to Father, quietly - referring to the goat: 
MOTHER What are you thinking? 
FATHER This is between a father and his sons. (In Tamil:) Selvam, the gate. 
MOTHER He said he's sorry. You want to scar them for life? 
FATHER Scar them? That boy almost lost his arm! 
MOTHER But he's still a boy! 
FATHER He will be a man sooner than you think, and this is a lesson I do not want them ever to forget. (Turning to Selvam:) Selvam. 
Selvam opens the far gate. Richard Parker re-enters the hallway. He sees the goat and slinks forward, lowering his body, his ears flattening against his skull. The goat freezes. Everyone watches in silence, transfixed by the intensity of the tiger. Pi watches the animal spirit glowing up within Richard Parker's eyes as instinct takes over. 
In a sudden, single burst, Richard Parker bolts the length of the hallway, claws reaching out through the bars of the cage toward the goat. 
We don't see what happens next - but the family does. 
ON THE CAGE: Only a few seconds have passed, but Richard Parker has already turned to go back into his enclosure, the lifeless goat in his mouth. The family watches - Father is impassive, Ravi traumatized; mother wraps her arms around Pi. 
52   INT. PI AND RAVI'S BEDROOM, 1976 - MORNING                52 
A rainy early morning in monsoon season. Pi (now 16) lies in bed, reading "Notes from the Underground." Ravi is still asleep. The radio plays in the other room. 
NEWS ANNOUNCER (ON RADIO) ... and so has placed the country in a State of Emergency. (MORE) 
ANANDI No - that also means the lotus flower. 
PI The lotus flower is hiding in the forest? Why would a lotus flower hide in the forest? 
Anandi blushes. She has no answer. 
62   EXT. THE ZOO EXHIBITS, 1977 - DAY                            62 
Pi and Anandi stand at the Bengal Tiger cage, Pi proudly introducing Anandi to the zoo's finest exhibit. 
PI And this is Richard Parker. He's the most magnificent creature we've ever had here. (Beat.) Look at the way he's turning his head. Showing off - like a dancer. 
ANANDI No, he heard something - he's listening. You see? 
Pi beams. 
64   INT. PATEL DINING ROOM, 1977 - DUSK                          64 
Pi sits at dinner with the family, a half-smile on his face, obviously lost in thoughts about Anandi. Father's voice gradually breaks through into Pi's consciousness. 
FATHER So...you see? We have talked about it for some time... Do you understand what I'm saying? Pi? 
Pi glances over. 
PI Sorry. You've been... 
FATHER Worried. For my family. Our animals are worth far more abroad than here in India, and if the town council stops supporting us, I don't know where we'll be. So... it is what we have to do. Do you understand? 
PI I'm sorry... what are we talking about? 
RAVI We are leaving India. 
PI What?? 
MOTHER We are selling the zoo. 
FATHER The zoo itself was never ours to sell - the land belongs to the town. But the animals are ours, and if we sell them, we will have enough to start a new life. 
PI But where would we go? Our life is here Appa! 
FATHER Canada. I have some opportunities for work in Winnipeg. I'll be shipping most of the animals for sale in North America; we can get freighter passage for the whole family. So, it is settled. We will sail like Columbus! 
PI But Columbus was looking for India! 
The cook shoves a plate of plain rice over the counter. 
FRENCH COOK Here's your rice. I cook for sailors, not curry eaters. 
Father grabs the cook's forearms, yanking him halfway over the high counter. 
FATHER What did you call us?? 
FRENCH COOK Let go of me! 
FATHER Who do you think you are? You're nothing but a servant! 
FRENCH COOK I feed people! You feed monkeys! 
FATHER I'll teach you respect! 
Sailors descend on the two, pulling them apart. 
A SHORT TIME LATER - 
69   INT. THE TSIMTSUM MESS HALL, 1977 - DAY                        69 
The family sits eating silently in the aftermath of the scuffle. A TAIWANESE SAILOR comes alongside Pi carrying a plate of rice with gravy. He speaks with a Taiwanese accent and a gentle smile. 
TAIWANESE SAILOR Hello, I am happy Buddhist, so I eat rice next to gravy. On ship, gravy is not meat. Is taste. Okay? You try? 
Pi smiles in gratitude, but the gravy looks anything but appetizing. 
70   INT. TSIMTSUM CARGO HOLD, 1977 - DAY                           70 
Pi eats a banana from the food set aside for the animals in the cargo hold. He sits next to the transport cage of ORANGE JUICE, a female orangutan with a baby orang in her arms. Animal crates and cages surround Pi, the air filled with screeches and growls. 
Father enters the hold, carrying food for the animals. 
FATHER (Noting Pi's banana:) Don't worry - we will have plenty of fresh supplies after we stop in Manila. 
Father mixes tranquilizer pills into food for the orangs. 
PI Why give O.J. a tranquilizer? She's not going to cause any trouble. 
FATHER The stress of traveling is not good for the animals. (MORE) 
FATHER (CONT'D) And it helps with the seasickness. We don't want to be cleaning up after a seasick orangutan, do we? 
Pi sees the Tsimtsum at an angle, it's bow dipping below the water. As he tries to get up, Pi notices the orange emergency whistle that dangles from the vest. He grabs it and blows, shouting between blasts. 
PI HELP! HELP! SOMEBODY, HELP ME! 
The deck lights of the freighter glow with a cheery, unnatural brilliance. By the light of the ship, Pi can just make out a distant figure in the water. 
PI (CONT'D) HEY! OVER HERE! 
Pi spies a lifebuoy tied to a rope. He grabs it and heaves it as far as he can across the water. OUT IN THE WATER, the lifebuoy splashes a few yards away from the shadowy figure. 
The moment Pi feels the tug on the line, he jumps into the uncovered part of the boat, lies back and begins hauling the rope in. Nearly finished, he lifts his head to peer over the side and sees who he's rescued. 
PI (CONT'D) Richard Parker? 
A beat - and then Pi realizes what he's done. He scrambles backward in horror, trying to throw the rope overboard. 
PI (CONT'D) NO! GO AWAY! 
Richard Parker paddles toward the boat. Pi grabs an oar, wielding it against the approaching tiger. Richard Parker tries to grab the oar. Pi yanks the oar away, falling onto his back. 
He listens as Richard Parker claws his way up the side of the swaying boat, coughing and gagging water. Pi scrambles backward, oar still in hand. He rises and jumps overboard. 
79   EXT. THE OCEAN - CONTINUOUS                                  79 
Pi plunges into the roiling water. An enormous wave rolls toward Pi - filling his lungs with air, Pi dives under, away from the assault of the raging storm. 
80   EXT. BENEATH THE WATER - CONTINUOUS                          80 
Silence as Pi hangs below the surface, arms wide, groping for focus and calm. 
Lightning casts a blazing white veil over the surface of the water above him, backlighting fish and animals, waves frozen in time like wrinkled bedsheets, their motionless texture pocked and dimpled with raindrops. As the sky explodes in white flashes, the scene is caught in surreal still shots. 
A hippo swims past, it's heavy form moving gracefully. 
Pi swims toward the camera - then freezes, reacting in horror as... 
A shark swoops past him and up toward the struggling animals near the surface. Pi dives defensively - the camera follows. Ahead, the Tsimtsum is visible, fifty feet beyond Pi, its deck lights dipping below the surface, casting an eerie underwater glow, bubbles flowing up to the surface; nearby, Pi can make out the floating oar. 
81   EXT. THE OCEAN/THE BOAT - CONTINUOUS                       81 
Pi bursts above water in total panic, throwing his arms around the oar, coughing up sea water and bile. The lifebuoy floats a dozen feet off; he swims toward it. He grabs the oar moments before a huge wave sweeps him up and over the lifeboat. He lands on the other side, the oar lost, and drags himself onto the stern. He jumps over the kicking zebra and scrambles onto the boat tarp. 
An oar sticks out from under the boat cover, hanging out over the front of the lifeboat. Pi climbs out on the oar, keeping himself a safe distance from the tiger he assumes is beneath the tarp. The air vibrates with a tremendous belching groan; Pi looks over to the cargo ship, watching, astounded... 
O.J. turns to look at Pi, a look of inconsolable sadness in her eyes - as though she knows better what lies ahead. 
84   EXT. THE LIFEBOAT - DAY                                     84 
High noon. Intolerable heat. Flies circle the zebra, landing on Pi's face and arms. He's too exhausted to brush them away. The only sound is the incessant lapping of water against the hull. Pi stares out across the ocean - no rescue in sight. He pushes himself upright, calling over the waves. 
PI HELLO...! HELLO...! ANYBODY? 
Pi kneels and bangs his bailing bucket against the hull. The hyena emergees, shaking its head violently in an attempt to clear its thoughts. It screams in frustration and begins yipping. Pi picks up the oar and pokes the hyena to fend it off. He watches with increasing alarm as the hyena paces in frantic circles - whatever tranquilizers this animal received are wearing off. The boy wraps his grip around the paddle, prepared to defend himself. 
The hyena abruptly stops pacing, coughing and retching - then lies down, shaking from emotional and physical distress. It sets its head on the edge of the tarp, predator eyes fastened on Pi. 
85   EXT. THE LIFEBOAT - DUSK                                    85 
A boy, a hyena, a zebra and an orangutan silhouetted against the last fading light of day. 
Pi has hung the paddle and lifebuoy off the end of the boat and perches on the bow. The hyena's eyes seem to glow in the last light, fixed on Pi. Pi stares back. 
Pi fights fatigue as waves splash interminably against the hull. He winces at each creak of the lifeboat; his eyes glaze over as he stares out at the endless, dusky seascape. Pi sees movement in the shadows. The hyena attacks the zebra; the zebra barks and squeals. O.J. reacts to the violence, crying out. 
PI No! Stop it! Stop it! No! Stop it! Stop it! NO!!! NO!!! NO!!! 
86   EXT. THE LIFEBOAT - DAWN                                     86 
Silence. Morning. Hazy. Pi slumps over the oar, eyes half open, glazed. He has stayed up a second night for fear of being attacked, and now he slowly nods sideways, giving in to exhaustion despite himself, and tumbles into the water. 
Pi gasps in shock as the water slaps him into full consciousness. He climbs back onto the life ring - coughing, tired, wet, sad and fearful. 
The lifeboat rolls and growls beneath Pi's feet as he stares - and then he notices O.J. The poor orang is sitting on a side bench half-hidden by the tarp, and horribly seasick. Her tongue lolls out of her mouth and she's visibly panting. 
PI I'm sorry, O.J.; I don't have any seasickness medicine for you - 
And then it strikes him. 
PI (CONT'D) Supplies! Ah, supplies! 
Pi pulls up the edge of the tarp nearest the bow. A row of benches with hinged lids curve around the bow. Pi opens the rearmost bench and finds a "LIFEBOAT MANUAL AND NAVIGATIONAL GUIDE" in a plastic bag along with a pencil lying on top of bags of supplies. He pulls out the manual and flips through it - an illustration shows that the boat is lined with compartments. He opens the next bench - it's stuffed with life jackets. 
He tosses one of the life jackets to O.J., who has no idea what to make of it. O.J. turns to watch him, utterly bewildered. 
88   EXT. THE OCEAN, BEHIND THE LIFEBOAT/THE LIFEBOAT - DAY       88 
An hour later. Pi finishes tying a knot in a piece of rope that joins oars to the lifebuoy. Pull back to reveal that Pi has built a makeshift raft, tying three oars into a triangle around the lifebuoy and using the banana net to gather the life vests into a bunch beneath. 
A rat skitters out from under the tarp, grabbing biscuit crumbs, then retreating. 
A low growl. Richard Parker charges out from his den and bounds onto the tarp. Pi staggers in terror and falls helplessly into the storage bench, with only his head poking out above the tarp. 
The tiger steps toward Pi, then hesitates - again, the softness of the tarp unnerves him. He steps back off the tarp and paces the stern. 
Pi creeps out of the storage bench - then watches in horror as Richard Parker swivels and charges him again, this time beneath the tarp. The rat scurries back out of hiding and Richard Parker's head follows, looming up out from the gap between the tarp and the storage bench. Pi jumps onto the tarp, out of the tiger's reach. 
Richard Parker scrambles backward and reappears at the far end of the tarp, roaring, prepared to attack from above - then halts, watching in astonishment as the rat hops around the lifeboat, finally running up Pi's shirt and landing on Pi's head. 
Pi grabs the rat by the tail and throws it. The rat sails, paws and tail stretched wide, across the boat. Richard Parker opens his mouth and the rat flies in, its tail disappearing between the tiger's lips like a spaghetti noodle. 
As Richard Parker enjoys his treat, Pi climbs backward over the bow, unhooking the rope, grabbing the water cans and the biscuits and slipping over the side, falling into the water. 
He drops onto the raft and pushes himself back with his feet. The raft floats back and hits the end of the ropeline with a jerk. Pi remembers the rope and goes back to untie it. 
Suddenly Richard Parker appears at the bow and lunges at him, almost falling off the front of the lifeboat onto Pi. The tiger scrambles back onto the boat and off the tarp, while Pi paddles the raft away. 
When he is finally at a safe distance, fear and stress overwhelm Pi - he throws up what little food and water he has taken. 
92   EXT. THE RAFT, BEHIND THE LIFEBOAT - NIGHT                  92 
A full moon, backlit clouds rolling through the skies, reflected in the water below. Pi floats behind the lifeboat, weeping, surrounded by nothing but terror and the abyss. A thick range of clouds moves in, threatening to cut off the light from the moon and stars. 
Pi watches Richard Parker on the lifeboat, a shadowy silhouette on the bow ahead. The tiger takes the zebra carcass under the tarp. The clouds blot out the sky. Darkness envelops them. 
93   EXT. ABOVE THE RAFT - EARLY MORNING                         93 
Angle on Pi, the raft and boat from above, lost on an endless ocean, the bright colors of morning light dancing on the surface of the water. 
Pi has taken out his pencil and now writes on the back page of his survival manual, his voice heard over: 
PI (WRITING V.O.) "My name is Pi Patel. I have been in a shipwreck. I am on a lifeboat alone - with a tiger. Please send help." 
He tears the page out and stuffs it into an empty water can, sealing the opening with a plastic lid. He tosses it as far as possible; the can splashes down, rippling the water, then bobs, going nowhere. Pi stares at the bobbing can, crushed as he sees the futility of this plan. 
A defeated pause, and then Pi looks up and sees the majesty of his surroundings. The cloud cover breaks; dawn light glows down on Pi. 
A grunt from the lifeboat. Pi turns, surprised. He grabs the tow line and reels into the lifeboat. 
He lifts the tarp; Richard Parker's eyes glow out at him from the shadows, greeting Pi with a low snarl. Pi gingerly lowers the tarp and casts the raft back from the bow. He looks up. 
PI (CONT'D) (In awe, shuddering:) God... I give myself to you. I am your vessel. Whatever comes... I want to know. Show me. 
PI (CONT'D) (Rocking the boat:) Hello, Richard Parker. Sorry about the choppy ride. 
Pi pulls himself onto the bow. Richard Parker tries to lift his head, then groans, giving it up. Pi lifts the whistle to his mouth and blows it repeatedly as he advances to the front edge of the tarp, opens his fly and pisses in a straight line across the midpoint of the boat. 
PI (CONT'D) (Pointing:) MINE! YOU UNDERSTAND? YOURS - MINE! (He blows his whistle) You understand? 
He steps back to observe the effect of this provocation on the seasick tiger. Richard Parker staggers to the edge of the tarp. He takes a deep sniff and winces, groaning, his tongue hanging out in distaste. The tiger turns away from Pi, facing the stern. Pi thinks the battle is won - until the tiger lifts his tail and sprays him with a tremendous burst of urine. 
PI (READING V.O.) (CONT'D) Step four: disregard steps one through three. 
A97   EXT. THE RAFT - AFTERNOON                                 A97 
Pi pulls in the solar still. Pi bends down to suck fresh water from the straw that protrudes from a water still, delighted to discover that it works. He carefully pours some of the water into a can for himself, then pours the rest into a bucket. 
B97   EXT. THE RAFT/THE LIFEBOAT - A SHORT TIME LATER            B97 
Pi pulls himself up to the bow of the lifeboat, sets a bucket of water in the boat and blows his whistle. Richard Parker sticks his head out from under the tarp. 
PI Here, Richard Parker. I've got some water for you. 
Pi blows the whistle once more, casting the raft adrift again. Richard Parker sniffs, then begins lapping greedily at the water. 
103   EXT. RAFT - INSERT                                         103 
INSERT of Pi writing in manual - text on page reflects Pi's accompanying V.O. 
PI (VO) In the zoo, we fed our tigers an average of five kilos of meat a day. Richard Parker will be getting hungry soon. 
104   EXT. RAFT - CONTINUOUS                                     104 
Pi chews for a moment, then spits out a blob of biscuit and presses the food ball onto his hook, savoring the crumbs that remain in his mouth. He tosses the hook and biscuit onto the water - the hook sinks, leaving the crumble of biscuit floating uselessly on the surface. Pi watches helplessly as fish rise to the surface to nibble at the soggy crumbs. 
PI (V.O.) Tigers are powerful swimmers, and, if he gets hungry enough, I'm afraid the little bit of water between us won't be any protection. I need to find a way to feed him. God made tigers carnivores, so I must learn to catch fish. If I don't, I'm afraid his last meal will be a skinny vegetarian boy. 
Pi thinks a moment. He takes off one of his shoes, using the knife to cut a sliver of leather off the side. He presses the hook through the leather and tosses it in the water. Pi pulls in his fishing line - the leather is gone. 
A SHORT TIME LATER - 
105   EXT. RAFT - DAY                                          105 
Pi has cut his shoe into a dozen bits of leather and tried fishing several times - Always with the same result. Richard Parker, watching, mops at his jaw to wipe away drool - he's clearly getting hungry. 
PI Patience! 
The tiger backs off as Pi approaches - curious and annoyed. Pi uses the stick to probe into the tiger's territory, testing his limits; Richard Parker gets angry, batting at the stick. Pi looks away, tries again, then turns to face Richard Parker, who growls, angry and begins batting at the stick. 
PI NO! 
Pi gives the tiger a stern glare. RP stops, stares back, then backs off. 
PI (CONT'D) Good. 
Pi reaches into a pouch behind his back, taking out a piece of fish. He places it on the end of the stick and reaches out, offering it to Richard Parker, who sniffs the air. 
Pi puts the fish on the bench. Richard Parker eats the fish, then backs up, growing calmer. 
Pi takes out another fish, reaches out to tap the bench, then tosses the fish on the bench. Richard Parker takes the fish, eats. 
Pi tosses the next piece near the edge of the tarp and taps, encouraging Richard Parker to follow his direction. 
PI (CONT'D) Go Richard Parker. Go. Go on home; I'll leave you alone. I'll respect that. I promise. Go, c'mon. 
Richard Parker stares at Pi. Pi raises his arms and yells, chasing Richard Parker around the bench and under the tarp. 
PI (CONT'D) Yes! 
Pi sits, the battle over. 
137   EXT. THE LIFEBOAT/THE RAFT - DAY                            137 
The sun is high. Pi raises the adjustable canopy he has rigged on his raft and sits beneath it. He feels the wind on his face and watches Richard Parker lounge in the stern of the lifeboat. Pi smiles, for a moment genuinely happy. 
He uses his knife to carefully sharpen his pencil, then begins writing in the margins of his survival manual, which are covered with journal entries... 
`LIFE IS GOOD' MONTAGE - Pi's raft has transformed again. Fish strips dry on lines; he has fashioned new tools, rigged an elaborate water collection system out of turtle shells, and a collapsible shade umbrella. 
- Pi trims his fingernails, a fish bone toothpick in his mouth. 
PI (WRITING - V.O.) I never thought a small piece of shade could bring me so much happiness. That a pile of tools - a bucket, a knife, a pencil- might become my greatest treasures. Or that knowing Richard Parker was here might ever bring me peace. In times like these, I remember that he has as little experience of the real world as I do. We were both raised in a zoo by the same master. Now we've been orphaned, left to face our ultimate master together. Without Richard Parker, I would have died by now. My fear of him keeps me alert. Tending to his needs gives my life purpose. 
138   EXT. RAFT - DAY                                             138 
A school of dolphins, hundreds of them, pass in the distance, the blue sea roiling. 
PI Dolphins, Richard Parker! 
Just beyond the school of dolphin, something else catches Pi's attention on the horizon - a freighter, much like the Tsimtsum, is within a few miles of their position. 
PI (WRITING - V.O.) (CONT'D) Words are all I have left to hang onto... 
147   EXT. LIFEBOAT - DAY                                      147 
Pi's fingers tremble as he writes in his manual, the tiny cramped letters barely legible, every white surface of the page covered. 
PI (WRITING - V.O.) Everything mixed up, fragmented. Can't tell daydreams, night dreams from reality anym -- 
The lead in his tiny stub of a pencil runs out, worn to a nub of wood. Pi slowly puts down his pencil, brooding. 
148   EXT. THE LIFEBOAT - DAY                                  148 
Pi lies on the tarp, his position nearly unchanged, beating a drum rhythm on the hull, a wreck of conflicted thoughts and frayed nerves. 
We hear a distant rumble of thunder. Pi raises his head. Dark thunderclouds rise up over the horizon blackening the heavens. Another rumble of thunder, this one closer. 
PI Storm! Storm, Richard Parker! 
149   EXT. LIFEBOAT - DAY                                      149 
Pi takes down the canopy on the raft. Pi begins quickly stowing his gear in the storage bench, beneath the tarp. Richard Parker flees to the safety of his den under the tarp. As Pi stows gear, he remembers his manual and takes it out from his waistband. 
The storm front sweeps across the ocean in a squall line, high winds and rain striking Pi and the lifeboat with tremendous force. The manual slips from his hands and Pi is knocked off his feet and into the water. He lifts his head out of the water in time to watch the manual flying off into the storm. 
PI No! 
The manual is gone. Pi ties himself to the lifeboat with a rope from the raft. 
150   EXT. LIFEBOAT - DAY                                         150 
a stunning display of clouds and lightning fills the sky, as Pi looks on in awe. The sky lights up, a vivid white splinter of lightning crashing down from the sky, puncturing the water near the lifeboat. The water is shot through with what looks like the white roots of an enormous celestial tree; the clap of thunder is tremendous. 
PI Praise be to God, Lord of All Worlds, the Compassionate, the Merciful! 
A wave washes Pi off of the tarp and onto the floor of the boat. Pi climbs onto the bench. He looks up in wonder at the sky, overwhelmed by the magnificence of the roiling clouds. 
PI (CONT'D) It's beautiful... Where are you, Richard Parker? You have to see this! 
Another angle: he begins unbuttoning the tarp, calling excitedly to Richard Parker. 
PI (CONT'D) Come out Richard Parker! Come see the hand of God! 
Pi continues to unfasten the tarp. 
Pi lies, unconscious, in the bow of the lifeboat. Waves lap at the sides of the boat, which presses against the shore of an island. 
A gust of wind blows across Pi's face, tousling his hair. Pi gradually opens his eyes. A beat. He tips his head back. 
Pi's POV - above and behind him, the tops of trees. 
Pi turns, looking at the island, amazed. The trees have a pale bark with an amazing profusion of leaves, their color burning with a neon-like intensity. There is no sand; instead the ground is an intricate, tightly webbed mass of tube- shaped seaweed, about two fingers in diameter. 
Pi turns to look back to the stern; he calls under the tarp. 
PI Richard Parker? 
Pi rises, stepping out of the boat. The seaweed is rubbery - uncertain ground. His legs are wobbly. He hooks the gaff on a root and falls to the ground. Pi tears up a piece of the seaweed and examines it. He takes an experimental bite. Soon he's grabbing handfuls of the seaweed, eating as fast as he can. 
Pi climbs the ridge on unsteady legs. A forest comes into view with nearly symmetrical ponds dotting the island here and there, many of them reaching 40 feet in diameter. 
Half the island seems to be covered with meerkats - thousands of them standing together in groups all over the island. The moment the first of the meerkats notices Pi, it turns and stands on its hind legs - and the others immediately follow suit. 
EXT. THE ISLAND - DAY 
Pi walks slowly forward, taking in the meerkats and the island. Gradually, the meerkats return to all fours - their squeaking and barking noises coming and going in waves throughout the herd. They pay him so little attention that Pi has to shove them aside with his legs in order to walk. 
PI Excuse me... Go on, move! 
Pi walks beyond the throng of meerkats toward a pond, pausing to examine the fish bones that litter the edge of one of the ponds. The edge is steep; he gets too close, slips down the side and into the water. Pi tastes the water. He begins a gentle, blissful breaststroke across the pond. 
Pi hears a commotion. He lifts himself up to peer over at the meerkats. In the distance, Richard Parker blazes a trail through the meerkats, catching, pinning and eating as many as he can. Pi smiles, watching the tiger. 
LATER: 
164   EXT. THE TREE - SUNSET                                   164 
Pi sits cradled in a nest of branches, rigging a hammock. As the last rays of the sun disappear, he hears a commotion below on the island and pushes aside branches to see better. The meerkats are abandoning the ponds, scurrying up onto land and running for the forest, their collective stampede noisier than a herd of elephants. Richard Parker, in the meantime, runs for the shoreline, scrambling down the ridge as fast as possible and leaping into the lifeboat. 
The trunk beneath Pi is swarmed as meerkats settle upon all the branches in the tree. Several invade Pi's hammock, sitting on him, climbing over him, making themselves comfortable at his expense. 
PI Hey! Hey! Hey c'mon. Hey! Hey-get away. This is my bed! 
Pi shoves them off as best he can and settles in for the night. 
165   EXT. UP IN THE TREE - NIGHT                                 165 
Pi sleeps, nestled in the branches of the tree. 
He blows his whistle, calling: 
PI RICHARD PARKER! 
172   EXT. THE ISLAND/LIFEBOAT - SUNSET                        172 
Richard Parker runs down the ridge and jumps into the stern. Pi climbs aboard and shoves off. 
CUT TO: 
173   EXT. OCEAN NEAR ISLAND - LIFEBOAT - SUNSET               173 
Pi and the tiger watch as the island recedes into the distance, lit by the late afternoon sun. 
PI (V.O) No one has ever seen that floating island since; you won't read about those trees in any nature book. And yet if I hadn't found those shores, I would have died. And if I hadn't discovered that tooth, I would have been lost, alone forever. (MORE) 
PI (V.O) (CONT'D) Even when God seemed to have abandoned me, He was watching. Even when He seemed indifferent to my suffering, He was watching. And when I was beyond all hope of saving, He gave me rest, then gave me a sign to continue my journey. 
177   EXT. THE MEXICAN COAST/THE JUNGLE - DAY                     177 
Pi leans over the side of the lifeboat. He falls overboard. We follow him underwater, his feet - hit a sandy bottom. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) By the time we reached the Mexican shore, I was afraid to let go of the boat. My strength was gone. I was so weak. I was afraid that in two feet of water, so close to deliverance, I would drown. I struggled to shore and fell upon the sand. It was warm and soft, like pressing my face against the cheek of God. And somewhere two eyes were smiling at having me there. 
An empty coastline, nothing but sand, rocks and jungle. Pi struggles to bring the lifeboat ashore. Richard Parker is hiding under the tarp, nowhere to be seen. Pi pulls the painter line until the boat is on the beach, then collapses on the sand. 
177   EXT. THE MEXICAN COAST/THE JUNGLE - DAY                     177 
Pi collapses on the beach. He hears Richard Parker coming a moment before he sees him; Pi turns, looking up as the tiger jumps over the boy, stretching in the air above him and landing in the water ahead of him. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) I was so spent I couldn't move. And so Richard Parker went ahead of me. 
Richard Parker walks along the beach, his gait clumsy and uncoordinated from so much time spent at sea. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) He stretched his legs and walked along the shore. 
Richard Parker stops, staring ahead into the forest, his back to the boy. Pi watches the tiger from behind, Richard Parker's ribs gently rising and falling as he smells the jungle air. 
ADULT PI (V.O.) At the edge of the jungle, he stopped. I was certain he was going to look back at me, flatten his ears to his head, growl - that he'd bring our relationship to an end in some way. But he just stared ahead into the jungle. 
178   INT. PI'S HOME, DINING ROOM, MONTREAL - SUNSET           178 
On Adult Pi alone: 
YOUNG PI Yes. Just like I told you. 
CHIBA Bananas don't float. 
OKAMOTO (In Japanese:) Why are you talking about bananas? 
CHIBA You said the orangutan floated to you on a bundle of bananas. But bananas don't float. 
OKAMOTO (In Japanese:) Are you sure about that? 
YOUNG PI Of course they do. Try it for yourself. 
OKAMOTO In any case, we are not here to talk about bananas or meerkats. 
YOUNG PI I've just told you a long story. I'm very tired. 
OKAMOTO We're here because a Japanese cargo ship sank in the Pacific. 
YOUNG PI Something I never forget. I lost my whole family. 
Pause. 
OKAMOTO (In Japanese:) Get him some water. (In English:) We don't mean to push you. And you have our deepest sympathies. But we've come a long way. And we're no closer to understanding why the ship sank. 
YOUNG PI Because I don't know. I was asleep. Something woke me up. It may have been an explosion; I can't be sure. And then the ship sank. What else do you want from me? 
CHIBA (OFF) A story that won't make us look like fools. 
OKAMOTO We need a simpler story for our report. One our company can understand. A story we can all believe. (Chiba gives Pi a glass of water.) 
YOUNG PI So.... a story without things you never seen before. 
OKAMOTO That's right. 
YOUNG PI Without surprises. Without animals or islands. 
OKAMOTO Yes. The truth. 
B175   INT. PI'S HOME, MONTREAL - DAY                      B175 
WRITER So what did you do? 
ADULT PI I told him another story. Four of us survived... 
