"LIFE" 
Screenplay by 
Robert Ramsey and Matthew Stone 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
FADE IN: 
EXT. PRISON CEMETERY -- DAY 
A handful of people are gathered in an open field under a fierce Mississippi sun. A couple of young inmates, JAKE and LEON, lean on their shovels. They are waiting to bury two identical CASKETS with inmate numbers stenciled on the pinewood lids. 
A GUARD rests the butt of his rifle on the ground and takes a long, healthy pull from his canteen. He offers it to the PRISON CHAPLAIN, who is much obliged. SUPERINTENDENT BILL BURKE, a 40-year-old black man, glances at his watch and loosens his tie. Sure is hot. 
MARY HUMPHRIES, an elderly white woman in a nurse's uniform, stands behind WILLIE LONG, an ancient inmate sleeping peacefully in a wheelchair. She readjusts an umbrella to shield the old black man from the blistering sun. 
Burke dabs his forehead with a handkerchief. He gives the nod to the chaplain, who steps forward and cracks his bible. The men remove their hats. 
CHAPLAIN In accordance with the regulations of the State of Mississippi, we gather here today to lay to rest the remains of inmates R. Gibson, number 4316, and C. Banks, number 4317. Ashes to ashes, dust to dust. May God have mercy on their souls. 
BURKE Go ahead, fellas. 
The young inmates plunge their shovels into the dirt. One by one, the mourners head back toward a prison van parked on a nearby dirt road. 
NURSE HUMPHRIES I'll come back for you in a little while, Willie... 
She leaves Willie alone with Jake and Leon. He rolls his chair up to the edge of the graves and gazes at the pinewood caskets. 
JAKE These two guys friends of yours, old man? 
WILLIE We spent some time together. 
LEON Why do I get the feeling when you say some time, you mean some time. 
WILLIE I was already here a good many years when they came in in 1932. 
LEON 1932? That's like, that's like... 
WILLIE Sixty-five years ago. They always said the farm couldn't hold 'em forever. Looks like you're finally free, boys. 
Willie pulls a bottle of moonshine from his jacket and takes a swig in their honor. 
JAKE Hey, the dude's holdin'. 
LEON Come on, old-timer, hook the brothers up. 
Willie passes the bottle to Leon, who takes a swig and winces from the unexpected kick. 
LEON Hell of a way to get out. Heard they burned up in that fire yesterday. 
JAKE I seen the bodies before they sealed 'em up. Them fellas sizzled up good. Looked like some shit from the X- Files. (taking a swig from the bottle) Damn, that shit's nasty. 
WILLIE Ray's special recipe. He always had exacting standards where the hooch was concerned. 
LEON What were they, bootleggers? 
Willie holds up the bottle, checking the clarity of the liquor. 
WILLIE Something like that. 
MATCH CUT TO: 
EXT. SPANKY'S BACK ALLEY (1932) -- NIGHT 
RAY GIBSON holds up a similar bottle of liquor to a light over a door. Music comes from within. He takes a swig and stashes the bottle in his belt. He adjusts his tie, polishes his shoes on the back of his pants and raps on the door. 
INT. SPANKY'S -- NIGHT 
The speakeasy is jumping, jammed with people. Up on stage a hot JAZZ BAND is playing backup for a seductive CHANTEUSE. Well-heeled PATRONS enter through doors near the stage. 
In the back, at the end of a long hallway, a BOUNCER cracks open the door and Ray squeezes inside. 
BOUNCER Oh, no, Ray. Not tonight. Spanky's not happy with you. 
RAY Is Spanky here? 
BOUNCER No, but... 
RAY Then what's the problem? 
BOUNCER Do yourself a favor and find another place where they let you in the front door. 
RAY But this is where the action is and I have to be where the action is. Look, when your old lady wanted those alligator shoes, didn't I come through for you? Ain't she stepping in style now? 
On his way into the Men's Room, Ray squeezes past the bag men on their way out. 
INT. MEN'S ROOM -- NIGHT 
Glancing around, Ray spots Claude's feet under the stall door. He steps up to the sink, washes his hands and takes a towel from the ATTENDANT. Scanning the assortment of grooming products, he selects a bottle of cologne and takes a sniff. 
RAY (displeased) You have any of that French stuff? 
As the attendent bends down to retrieve a bottle of the good stuff, Ray palms a coin from the tip basket. 
ATTENDENT Here you go. 
Ray offers the quarter, a gesture of uncommon generosity. 
RAY Keep the change. 
ATTENDENT Why, thank you, sir! 
Ray pats the cologne on his face. A toilet flushes and Claude steps over to the sink. Ray catches his eye in the mirror. 
RAY Don't I know you? 
CLAUDE I don't think so. 
RAY Sure I do. What's your name again? 
CLAUDE Claude Banks. 
RAY Claude Banks. How could I forget that? You've got to remember me. Ray Gibson. We went to high school together. 
CLAUDE You went to Monroe? 
RAY (beaming) That's right! Good old Monroe... 
Ray throws his arms around Claude, deftly snatching his wallet. Claude extracts himself from Ray's embrace. 
CLAUDE Well, I went to Jefferson, so you must have a different Claude Banks in mind. 
Claude straightens his jacket and heads for the door. Ray stashes the stolen wallet in his jacket. 
RAY Sorry, man. My mistake. 
INT. SPANKY'S -- NIGHT 
On the stage, the chanteuse has downshifted into a sultry number about back-door lovers and broken dreams. 
Ray steps out of the men's room and is instantly collared by BULLETHEAD, a man who makes his living being large and threatening. 
RAY Watch the threads, Bullethead. If this is about my tab, I've got it covered. 
Pressed up against the wall, Ray reaches into his jacket and produces Claude's wallet. Bullethead snatches it, inspects it and is not impressed. 
BULLETHEAD This ain't about your tab, Ray. You've got bigger problems than that. 
He stuffs the wallet back into Ray's jacket and hustles Ray out the back door past the bouncer who let him in. 
BOUNCER Is that Ray Gibson? Who the hell let him in here? 
BACK AT CLAUDE'S TABLE 
Claude returns to the table where Daisy is sipping champagne. He takes the glass out of her hand. 
CLAUDE Come on, honey, let's get out of here. 
DAISY But I'm having a good time... 
WAITER Excuse me, sir, I believe you forgot this. 
The waiter presents Claude with the bill. 
CLAUDE The bill. Of course, the bill. We couldn't leave without paying the bill. Especially such an incredibly large bill. 
INT. VAN -- NIGHT 
Claude is shoved into the back of the van and the doors are slammed behind him. He bangs and shouts, but it's no use. 
RAY Save your energy, Claude. You're gonna need it. 
Ray is stretched out against the back wall. Claude is knocked to the floor as the van lurches into motion. 
RAY Here, this belongs to you. (tossing Claude his wallet) It was empty when I found it. 
CLAUDE Good old Monroe. 
Ray swigs from his bottle and offers it to Claude, who isn't interested. 
RAY All I need is the front money and a truck. I could be back in two, three days tops if I had somebody to share the driving. 
Spanky considers the terms. Can he afford to trust Ray? Can he afford not to? 
SPANKY If you fuck me on this one, I'll spare no expense. 
RAY Understood. 
SPANKY Alright, Ray, you've got a deal. Pick your man and get going. 
Ray glances around. The pulley rope is still twitching in the water. 
RAY I'll take the little choirboy, if you don't mind. 
SPANKY If I was you, I'd want somebody who can handle himself in a tight spot. 
RAY I just want somebody who won't put a bullet in my back once the truck is full. 
Spanky sees Ray's point. He nods to the henchman, who hoists Claude's limp body out of the water and onto the cement. Spanky plants a foot on Claude's chest and applies pressure. A geyser of Harlem River water shoots from Claude's mouth as he sputters back to life. 
SPANKY For your sake, I hope you can drive. Somebody give him some dry clothes. 
CUT TO: 
THE SPINNING WHEEL OF A TRUCK 
The CAMERA MOVES UP the side of the old Ford truck to find Claude sitting pensively in the passenger seat. 
INT. TRUCK (MOVING) -- NIGHT 
Ray palms the wheel. 
RAY Tell me about that hot sketch you were hypin' last night. She was a choice bit of calico. You two been seeing each other a long time? Gonna slap the handcuffs on her and stroll down the aisle one of these days? 
Tight-lipped, Claude shifts in his seat. 
RAY Sometimes I wish I could find me a sheba to settle down with. Suppose I'm just a tomcat by nature. (trying to fill the silence) This little rum run is gonna seriously improve my relationship with Spanky. He's a good man to have on your side. He's got the capital and the connections. That's what you got to have in that business. Spanky's place is pretty plush, but one of these days I'm gonna open up my own establishment. Ray's Boom-Boom Room. You like that? Ray's Boom-Boom Room. That's in the groove, don't you think? 
If Claude does like it, he's not letting on. 
RAY Come on, daddy-o. You haven't said a word since we started. Least you could do is make some friendly conversation. 
CLAUDE Look, man, I don't want friendly conversation. I don't want to be your friend. I've seen your friends and I don't like them. I just want to do this thing and get back to New York in time to start my job. 
RAY Start your job? What kind of job? 
CLAUDE Well, if you must know, bank teller at First Federal of Manhattan. I'm responsible for keeping track of hundreds, occasionally thousands of dollars. 
RAY That's some long green. 
CLAUDE Damn straight, it is. I got my own set of keys because I'm supposed to open up. So if I ain't there 8 a.m. Monday morning, there's gonna be hell to pay. 
Beat of silence. Ray laughs to himself. 
CLAUDE What? 
RAY Nothing. 
CLAUDE No, tell me what's so funny. 
RAY I don't know. Bank teller. Sounds like ladies work to me. 
CLAUDE Well, maybe I should dig around in other people's clothes for money. It's obviously been highly successful for you. 
RAY Hey, you'd be surprised what you find in other people's pockets. Just gotta avoid them deadbeat bank tellers. Get you every time. 
CLAUDE I didn't start out to be a bank teller. I was gonna be a ballplayer. Even had an offer to play short for the Newark Eagles. 
RAY Why didn't you take it? 
CLAUDE The Negro League don't pay so good. And you're always on the road. That don't wash with Daisy. 
RAY You gave up baseball to be a bank teller? I can't latch on to that. 
CLAUDE At some point a man's got to get serious about his future. I'm sure you have no idea what I'm talking about. 
RAY You're talking about giving up baseball to be a bank teller. 
CLAUDE Bank teller's just a start. I got plans. Real plans. Not opening some Zoom-Boom Room. This time next year I'll be a loan officer. 
RAY A loan officer? 
CLAUDE That's right, a loan officer. 
RAY So you mean, if I needed some jack to get my nightclub up and running, I'd have to hype some square like you? 
Diner patrons stare. 
RAY I said you're soft. 
CLAUDE Hey, man, don't ever call me that. 
RAY I call it like I see it, and what I see is definitely soft. 
Claude narrows his eyes. 
CLAUDE Alright. You want some pie? 
RAY Yeah, I want some pie. 
CLAUDE Okay then, I'm gonna walk over to that counter and get us some fucking pie. 
Resolved, Claude stomps over to the counter. 
CLAUDE Excuse me, ma'am, I bet a brick will turn that one right there into a colored pie. 
Claude lays down a dollar bill. Mama casually pulls a shotgun from under the counter. 
MAMA And I bet this right here will turn you into a colored pie. 
CLAUDE Okay, Ray, I think we can go now. Much obliged... 
Ray gives the whole place a cool once-over as Claude pulls him out the door. Mama turns to Billy, still studying the stitching on his shirt. 
MAMA Don't be concentrating so hard, baby. You're liable to seize yourself again. 
EXT. DOCKS -- NIGHT 
The truck rolls up to the waters edge. Ray kills the engine and flashes the lights twice. In the passenger seat, Claude is fast asleep. After a few moments, a FAT MAN appears, shining a flashlight into the cab. 
RAY How you doing? We're looking for Slim. 
SLIM You found him. 
Ray cocks an eyebrow. 
EXT. DOCKS -- NIGHT 
Under cover of darkness, a couple of MEN finish loading crates into the bed of the truck. Ray and Claude keep their eyes peeled for the law. Down by the river, they can see lights and hear music from a district of rowdy juke joints. SLIM steps up, wiping his hands. 
SLIM That's it, fellas. Thirty six cases of Puerto Rico's finest. At five bucks a case, that's $180. 
Ray pulls out a wad and slaps it in Slim's sweaty palm. The fat man starts counting it out. 
RAY Man, that music is hot. What goes on down there, Slim? 
SLIM That's Natchez-under-the-Hill. 
RAY Blacks welcome there? 
SLIM Green's the only color that matters under the hill. They got gambling, girls. You oughta check it out. 
RAY Maybe we will. Nice meeting you. 
Slim slips into the shadows. 
CLAUDE Nice meeting you? You've been here before, haven't you? 
RAY What gave you that idea? 
CLAUDE Oh, I don't know, maybe because our lives depend on it, I just sort of thought you knew what you were doing! 
RAY Don't get all agitated on me. I bought a bottle of rum from a couple of dudes, I heard 'em talking... 
CLAUDE Let me get this straight. We drove all the way down to Klan country 'cause you heard a couple of guys talking? 
RAY What are you complaining about? It worked out. Everything's cool. Now, come on, let's head down there and see what's shaking. We deserve a little reward. 
CLAUDE (dubious) Reward? 
RAY There are people down there having fun. I want to be one of them. I want you to be one of them. On Monday you can be a bank teller if you want, but tonight you're a bootlegger with a truck full of Puerto Rican rum and a fistful of cash. 
A look of excitement crosses Claude's face, but he quickly shakes it off. 
CLAUDE That's gas money. 
Exasperated, Ray stuffs a few bills into Claude's pocket. 
RAY There's your gas money. You stay here and watch the truck. And don't worry, I've got the keys. 
Left alone, Claude mutters and kicks at the dirt. He leans against the truck. 
Ray shakes his head. Carefully, she begins to clear the table. Suddenly, he grabs her wrist. Winston's glass tips over. Ray flips over the cocktail napkin to reveal an extra pile of cards. 
RAY Looks like he had a whole lot of nothing in his hand until you came along. 
WAITRESS (wrenching free) You're hurting my arm. 
EXT. JUKE JOINT -- NIGHT 
Ray dashes into the street, glancing both ways. No sign of Winston. Damn. 
EXT. BACK ALLEY -- NIGHT 
Winston produces Ray's pocket watch and pops it open. A smile crosses his face as the mechanical tune plays. 
A sheriff's sedan rounds a corner, illuminating Winston in its headlights. The car pulls up and SHERIFF WARREN PIKE steps out. Distinguished by a casual cruelness, he's a young white man who loves his uniform. 
PIKE If it isn't Winston Hancock. 
Winston tries to move past Pike, but the sheriff blocks his path with a night stick. As Winston backs off, another squad car pulls up behind him. TWO DEPUTIES step from the car, guns drawn. 
PIKE I thought we agreed that you were gonna leave town. 
WINSTON I tried to leave, Sheriff Pike. But your wife begged me to stay. 
Pike slams Winston with his club, sending the black man to his knees. As Winston struggles back to his feet, a stiletto flashes and he lunges for the sheriff, slashing his cheek. The deputies grab Winston from behind, holding him by both arms. The long knife clatters to ground. Pike touches his face, examining the blood on his fingers. 
PIKE You just committed suicide, boy. 
INT. BORDELLO HALLWAY -- NIGHT 
Ray walks slowly down the hallway to Room 13. He is about to knock when he hears the sound of lovemaking from within. 
INT. SYLVIA'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
Ray opens the door and peeks in. Sylvia's on top and in charge. Claude is concentrating real hard. Ray smiles to himself and closes the door. 
INT. JUKE JOINT -- NIGHT 
Claude hitches up his suspenders as he comes down the stairs. He finds Ray having a drink at the now-empty bar. 
CLAUDE Hey, Ray. I've been looking for you. 
RAY Here I am. 
CLAUDE Guess we better get going, huh? 
RAY Still got that ten dollars? 
CLAUDE Well, not exactly. See, I met this girl. Real nice girl. God-fearing girl. Her name's Sylvia. 
RAY That jelly you were talking to right here? 
CLAUDE She's in a tight spot. Her mama needs this operation, and they ain't got the money for it. Their church took up a collection but they were still short... 
RAY So you made a generous contribution. 
CLAUDE What can I say? When the spirit moves me. 
RAY That was mighty charitable of you, Claude. Looks like we both got fucked tonight. 
CLAUDE What are you talking about? 
RAY While you were upstairs doing God's work, I was getting jack-legged by a fool with four threes. 
CLAUDE You lost all our money in a card game? 
RAY He even got my daddy's watch. 
CLAUDE Fuck that cheap-ass watch -- (off Ray's glare) I mean, how the hell are we gonna get home without any money? 
RAY We've still got 36 cases of rum. That's better than money. 
EXT. BACK ALLEY -- NIGHT 
Ray and Claude head down the alley. 
CLAUDE You sure the truck's this way? (looking over his shoulder) I swear it was back that way. 
Suddenly, the bloodied figure of Winston Hancock lurches from the shadows and grabs Claude by the lapels. Claude is too scared to scream, staggering backward. But the man's grip loosens and he slips to the ground. 
CLAUDE (croaking) Ray... Yo, Ray...! 
Ray turns back to find Claude trembling with fear and covered in blood. He just points down. Ray eyes widen. He kneels down and turns Winston's body over. 
CLAUDE I think he's hurt pretty bad. 
PIKE Well, if that's the case, then you don't have anything to worry about, do you? 
Pike turns his back on the prisoners and checks the time on a gold pocket watch -- Ray's pocket watch. But from his cell, Ray can't hear the mechanical tune. 
PIKE Time to get home to the missus. See y'all in the morning. 
In the cell, Claude turns to Ray. 
CLAUDE The man's gotta point. We're innocent, after all. I just gotta get a good night's sleep on this filthy mattress. Keep our heads on straight, stay cool, what's the worst thing that could happen to us? 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. COURTROOM -- DAY 
The CAMERA Scorseses in on the JUDGE'S face... 
JUDGE Life! 
The gavel comes down with a thundering crash. Stunned, Ray and Claude resist the BAILIFFS' efforts to remove them from the courtroom. 
RAY Life?! How long is life? We were just walking back to the truck. We didn't do nothing! Fuck life! 
CLAUDE Life?! What's life mean? There's no way I can do life. I got a job starts Monday morning! 
They continue to protest loudly as they are dragged bodily through the door. 
EXT. COUNTRYSIDE -- DAY 
Blues music kicks in as a prison transport bus rolls down a dirt road cutting through the bleak Mississippi Delta. 
INT. BUS (MOVING) -- DAY 
LONG-CHAIN CHARLIE, a white prison sergeant, sits behind the wheel. A shot gun hangs within easy reach. 
The CAMERA MOVES BACK past grim-faced PRISONERS with their hands and feet shackled. We arrive at Ray and Claude sitting in grim silence as the bus lurches along. 
EXT. PRISON -- DAY 
The bus veers off the country road and passes under a sign: MISSISSIPPI STATE PENITENTIARY. Sgt. Dillard's voice PLAYS OVER. 
DILLARD (V.O.) Welcome to the farm. Here you will be provided with ample opportunity to repay your debt to society through the rigors of hard labor... 
Ray and Claude stare out the window, getting their first look at the harsh reality that awaits them. Cotton fields stretch to the horizon in every direction. HOE-GANGS till the earth under the watchful gaze of TRUSTY SHOOTERS... 
DILLARD (V.O.) In between harvest and planting season we got fields need clearing, roads need building and ditches need digging. You will eat only what you can grow. Your crop don't come in, you'll go hungry. If you die, don't worry 'bout us none. We'll find somebody to replace you... 
Along the road, CONVICTS cast hard looks at the new men as the cart passes. A WHITE SERGEANT on horseback shifts his rifle and casually spits tobacco juice in the dirt... 
EXT. CAMP 8 -- DAY 
A low-slung, single-story bunkhouse surrounded by a dirt yard. Two shooter shacks sit at diagonal corners of the yard. In each shack, two trusties with rifles keep vigilant watch over the camp. SGT. FRED DILLARD paces down the line of new men as HOPPIN' BOB, an uncommonly ugly trusty, unlocks their leg irons. 
DILLARD This here is Camp 8. Camp 8 is for incorrigibles, so whatever you've done to get here, believe me, we're not impressed. You new men are probably noticing that we have no fences here at Camp 8. We don't need no fences, we have the gun line. It runs from shack to shack clear around the yard. You are now inside the gun line. If you step outside the gun line without my permission, you will be shot. If you trip and fall over the gun line, you will be shot. If you spit, if you pee, if you stick your ass out and take a dump over the gun line, you will be shot. 
Dillard plucks a hat off one of the new prisoners and tosses it over the gun line. SHOTS ring out from the nearest shack. The hat is torn to shreds. 
DILLARD One of my trusties puts a bullet in you when you're trying to run, I'm liable to give him a pardon for saving me the trouble of tracking you down, so you can bet their aim is true. 
Dillard puts a cigarette in his mouth. Hoppin' Bob is right there with the flame. 
DILLARD My name is Sgt. Dillard. In the unlikely event that you need to address me, you call me boss. You already met this handsome fella right here. Hoppin' Bob's my ace boon coon. You run afoul of Hoppin' Bob, you run afoul of me. 
Nodding to Bob, Dillard saunters off. 
HOPPIN' BOB New men, strip down! 
Ray and Claude share a look. Self-consciously, the men begin to undress. 
INT. BUNKHOUSE -- DAY 
Double bunks line the walls, with a footlocker for each inmate. As usual, there's a poker game going on. 
HOPPIN' BOB Okay, ladies, got some fresh meat for ya! 
All activity comes to a halt as the new men shuffle into the cage wearing their prison-issue "ring-arounds." Hoppin' Bob slams the metal doors shut behind them. 
HOPPIN' BOB We ain't got no wallflowers at Camp 8. Everybody gotta dance eventually. But don't worry, they won't try nothing tonight. That would take all of the fun outta the courtship. 
The INCORRIGIBLES hungrily eye the new men in total silence. Claude sticks close to Ray as they shuffle toward their assigned bunks. The CAMERA SETTLES on a much younger WILLIE LONG. 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- MORNING 
The inmates jump down from the mule cart and grab hoes and shovels. Because he can't count, Hoppin' Bob keeps track of the men using a system all his own -- a PEBBLE in his pocket for each man. Dillard stands by with his shotgun. 
DILLARD Got three miles of ditch to clear today. Let's keep it moving! 
Relief all around. "Thank goodness." 
RAY Oh, wait, looks like Jenny died, too. 
"Bad luck, man." "That's harsh..." 
RAY Then it goes on for a while about how the crop didn't come in on accounta the frost. (flips over the page) She finishes up with something about a tornado and how your mama and your daddy died in that. But don't worry none. She'll take care of the dog. That is, if it gets over the worms. 
The prisoners share dark looks. Ray folds up the letter and hands it back to Poker Face. 
POKER FACE Appreciate it. 
RAY Anybody else need anything read? 
"No, man, we're good." The men shake their heads and return letters and cards to their pockets. Jangle Leg nods and switches places with one of the convicts, parking next to Claude. 
JANGLE LEG How you doin'? 
CLAUDE I'm all right. 
JANGLE LEG You ever done time before? 
CLAUDE You kidding? I've been in and out of prison my entire life. Mostly in. I'm hard-core. 
JANGLE LEG Then you won't have no problem making the adjustment. You need anything, help of any kind, gimme a holler. Name's Jangle Leg. 
CLAUDE 'Preciate it. Claude. 
As they shake, Jangle Leg inspects Claude's hand thoroughly. 
JANGLE LEG Soft and supple. Like a lady's. 
CLAUDE (eyes narrowing) I try to moisturize regularly. 
HOPPIN' BOB (over his shoulder) Hey, Jangle Leg, what'd I tell you about pitching woo on the job? 
JANGLE LEG Sorry, Cap'n. 
Claude snatches back his hand and gives Jangle Leg a hard look. 
HOPPIN' BOB Break's over! Back to work! 
As the men grab their tools and return to work, Claude leans over to Ray. 
CLAUDE Why do you think they call him Jangle Leg? 
RAY Somebody just told me he wins the three-legged race every year. 
CLAUDE So? 
RAY He does it all by himself. 
INT. MESS HALL -- DUSK 
Wincing with each movement and covered in grime from the day's labors, the new men bring up the back of the chow line. COOKIE, the grub-slinger, slaps a large dollop of an unidentifiable substance onto Ray's tray. 
RAY What is that? 
COOKIE Creamed chip beef on toast. Except we're outta beef, so I had to improvise. 
RAY Can't I get one of those steaks you got grilling back there? 
COOKIE Those are for trusties, unless you got thirty cents or two packs of cigs. 
Another prisoner lays down some tobacco and gets a juicy steak. Ray grabs a hunk of corn bread and makes his way to the back of the room. Claude steps up, holds out his tray for Cookie. 
CLAUDE Excuse me, I don't like it when the food touches each other, so if you could just -- (SPLAT!) -- keep everything separate. 
Disappointed, Claude turns to discover that the only seat left is next to Ray. Scowling, he limps toward it. 
Jangle Leg's eyes follow Claude as he approaches the table. Biscuit smacks him. 
BISCUIT Eyes front, mister! 
Claude sits down and promptly goes to work scraping his burnt toast with his knife. The irritating sound slowly brings the entire room to dead silence. All eyes fall on Claude. Scratch, scratch, scratch... 
COOKIE (stepping up) Problem with the toast? 
CLAUDE It's fine now. 
Cookie glowers and takes a seat. 
RAY Stop aggravating people. Just eat your food. 
As the room returns to normal, Claude starts polishing his fork with his shirttail. Irritated, Ray shoots him a look. 
RAY My corn bread? Oh no, my friend. I love corn bread. 
Ray picks up his corn bread and takes a huge bite out of it, rolling his eyes with enthusiasm. 
RAY I thought my mama made good corn bread but this is really something special. 
Ray looks at the faces around the room, smiles broadly. Goldmouth is getting embarrassed. 
RAY Who knew I'd have to come all the way down to this here prison, deep in the asshole of the great state of Mississippi, to find such a tasty piece of corn bread? 
The prisoners begin to laugh. Ray's got them now. 
RAY And who knew that in this great corn bread-making institution I'd come face to face with the biggest, ugliest, stinkiest, ugliest gold- mouthed negro in the entire world. Now get out of my face before I lose my appetite! 
EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DUSK 
A punch sends Ray sprawling in the dust. Goldmouth looms over him. The incorrigibles form a circle around the combatants. Poker Face, the camp bookie, is taking all bets. 
GOLDMOUTH How you like your corn bread now, New York? 
Goldmouth and Ray square off. Goldmouth swings, Ray ducks and counters with a swift jab to the gut. Goldmouth just flashes a shiny grin and clobbers Ray with a fist the size of a Thanksgiving turkey. Ray sinks to the dust. Radio drops down near him. 
RADIO Come on, New York, you can do better than that! Get up and show him how they do it in Harlem! 
Ray shakes his head and staggers back to his feet. He circles the big man and gets in a couple of good shots, much to the crowd's approval. Goldmouth shakes his head and wipes the blood from his nose. Now he's mad. He grabs Ray by the shirt and delivers a crushing blow. Ray reels backward into Cookie's arms. 
COOKIE I appreciate you going to all this trouble over my corn bread. I don't get a lot of compliments in my line of work. 
Cookie shoves Ray back into the ring for more punishment. Claude emerges from the mess hall, munching on a piece of corn bread. He squeezes in between Poker Face and Willie. 
WILLIE Your pal's getting the tar whipped out of him on your account. 
CLAUDE How many times I got to tell you? He ain't my pal. Besides, he looks like he knows what he's doing. 
Just then Claude winces as Goldmouth delivers a jaw-crushing uppercut that knocks Ray on his back. Claude bristles under the incriminating looks coming at him from all directions. 
CLAUDE Alright, alright... 
Claude crouches down as Ray rolls over on his stomach and pushes himself up onto all fours. His eyes are swollen shut, his face covered with blood. 
CLAUDE Hey, Ray, I think you made your point, whatever that is. Maybe now's a good time to throw in the towel. You know what I'm saying? 
Ray manages a smile and staggers to his feet. 
RAY (slurring) Shit, Goldmouth. Back in New York, I know bitches who hit harder than you. 
Goldmouth pulls back his fist and lets it fly. Ray hurtles through the crowd, collapsing in the dust. Willie steps in. 
WILLIE The man's taken enough of a beating. Let's get him inside. 
Cookie, Radio and Poker Face raise Ray to his feet. Goldmouth slings him over his shoulder and carries him toward the bunkhouse. Dazed, Ray catches Claude's eye. 
RAY Got him good, huh, Claude? He won't be bothering us anytime soon. 
A quick elbow jab from Goldmouth and Ray is out for good. Disgusted with himself, Claude tosses what's left of the corn bread to the mangy dog, who makes short work of it. 
BISCUIT (wagging a finger) Shame, shame, that's your name. 
FADE TO BLACK: 
INT. MESS HALL -- DAY 
On Sundays, the mess hall also serves as a chapel. From a makeshift pulpit, the blind REVEREND CLAY and his DAUGHTER lead the congregation of convicts in a rousing chorus of "Down by the Riverside." 
EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY 
The gospel music filters into the yard, where the prisoners mingle with kinfolk. 
EXT. SGT. DILLARD'S HOUSE -- DAY 
MRS. DILLARD hums along with the gospel music as she places a couple of freshly-baked pies on the window sill to cool. 
EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY 
The CAMERA FINDS Claude and Daisy walking hand in hand toward a simple shack just beyond the gun line. This is the TONK HOUSE and Dillard is the gate keeper. 
CLAUDE Request permission to go to the tonk, boss. 
Dillard considers Daisy. 
DILLARD I don't see no wedding ring, Banks. Conjugal visits are for married prisoners only. 
CLAUDE You think you could make an exception just this once, boss? She came all the way down from New York. 
DILLARD I don't need the Baptists on my back, but I suppose I could issue a temporary marriage license for a nominal fee. 
RAY This is a big surprise, mama. I sure didn't expect to see you down here. 
A long, uncomfortable beat. Mama's lip starts to tremble. 
MAMA GIBSON Rayford, I wanted so much more for you than this. 
RAY Don't cry, mama. This place ain't so bad as it looks. Sure, we work hard, but there's plenty fresh air and sunshine... And you know something else, I've taken to going to church regular. They got services every Sunday right there in the mess hall. 
MAMA GIBSON Don't you lie to me, Rayford. (composing herself) You still have your daddy's watch? (Ray shakes his head) Well, this is all I can give you. I wish it was more. 
She puts some money in his hand. 
RAY I can't take that, mama. 
MAMA GIBSON Don't argue with me. You need it more than I do. I know how a little money can help in a place like this. 
Reluctantly, Ray stashes the money in his pocket. 
RAY I can't believe this. I always said I'd never end up like this. I thought I'd make something of myself, do something with my life. You know, be successful. Have a big house, a family. Now I'm gonna end up just like daddy. 
MAMA GIBSON Don't say that, Rayford. Don't ever say that. He gave up hope. That's where you gotta be different. 
RAY They gave me life, mama. 
MAMA GIBSON I gave you life. And they can't take it away from you. Remember that. You'll get outta here someday. I believe that. You gotta believe it, too. 
INT. TONK HOUSE -- DAY 
Reclining on a straw mattress, Claude watches intently as Daisy gets dressed. The rickety door reverberates with a loud pounding. 
HOPPIN' BOB (off) Time's up, Banks! We got a crowd gathering out here! 
Claude leaps from the bed and slams his fist against the door. 
CLAUDE Woman came all the way from New York, goddamnit! We'll come out when we're good and ready! 
Daisy quickly buttons up her dress. 
CLAUDE Did you go see my cousin Maynard like I asked you in my letter? 
DAISY Of course I did. He said he'd file an appeal right away. You didn't tell me he was so good looking. 
CLAUDE Yeah, that side of the family has all the looks and none of the brains. I hope he don't mess things up. 
DAISY He seemed like a pretty good lawyer to me. His offices take up an entire floor of that big, new building on 125th Street, and he was using all these words I never heard before. He even offered me a job. 
CLAUDE A job, huh? Well, that's nice, real nice. You won't have to work long. I'll be back soon enough. After I start work at First Federal Bank of Manhattan, I'll be keeping you in style. Everything will get back to normal again. That's a promise. 
Daisy smiles weakly and looks away. She doesn't have much faith in this promise. 
DAISY Listen, Claude, Maynard wanted to know if he should file the appeal on behalf of your friend, too. 
CLAUDE Ray Gibson? (thinks about it) No, no. He's the reason I'm in here, Daisy. For all I know, he's got a record a mile long. I got a better shot of getting out of here on my own. You tell Maynard to think about me, concentrate on me. Understand? 
DAISY Sure, Claude, whatever you say. 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- DAY 
The prisoners jump down from the cart and grab hammers and pick axes as Hoppin' Bob keeps count with pebbles. 
DILLARD We lost yesterday on accounta the rain. That means we gotta make up for it today, so put your backs to it. 
HOPPIN' BOB You heard the boss! Let's move! 
Ray and Claude jump down after Willie. 
WILLIE (squinting at the sun) Looks like a scorcher. 
RADIO I bet the son of a bitch goes over a hundred and ten. 
POKER FACE I'll take that action. 
EXT. FIELD -- DAY 
The long line levels a road to a work tune being sung by Jangle Leg. 
Dillard checks the thermometer on the truck -- 90 degrees and rising. Mopping his brow, he starts down the line. 
The sun arcs overhead, a blazing inferno... Heat rises off the road... The men sweat profusely... "Taking it off here, boss!" echoes up and down the line. 
Biscuit has his work cut out for him, lugging a water bucket from man to man, offering the ladle. 
The sun... the hammer... the ladle... the axe... the sun... the hammer... the ladle... the axe... The mercury hits 110 degrees... 
A NEW GUY lets his hammer slip from his fingers, collapses in the dirt. Radio nods to Poker Face, who hands him a pack of cigs. 
BLAM! A high horn note sounds. 
SMASH CUT: 
CLOSE-UP -- Biscuit, all dolled up and flashing a million- dollar smile. She begins to sing. 
BISCUIT A tisket a tasket... 
Biscuit is up on a makeshift platform in the bunkhouse, lipsyncing to Ella Fitzgerald. But its not the depressing bunkhouse anymore, it has transformed into Ray's Boom-Boom Room. PULL OUT SLOWLY as Ray, decked out in a sleek tuxedo steps in front of the CAMERA. He speaks into the CAMERA as he walks... 
RAY That's right, fellas. Catch any cab heading uptown. All the drivers know Ray's Boom-Boom Room. 
GOLDMOUTH (O.S.) Hey, Ray... 
Ray looks to his left, sees Goldmouth in the old bunkhouse. 
GOLDMOUTH Where am I at, man? 
RAY (in nightclub) C'mon, Goldmouth, somebody's gotta watch the front door. 
The CAMERA PANS off Ray to Goldmouth, in a tuxedo, at the front door of the nightclub with two lovely ladies. He waves to himself, sitting on his bunk. Himself waves back, smiling like a kid in a candy store. 
Willie is behind the bar, serving drinks to three gorgeous SKIMMIES. 
WILLIE Hey, Ray, I could get used to this! 
CLOSE ON Cookie sitting a table eating a huge porterhouse. The CAMERA DOLLIES around to find Ray eating with him. 
COOKIE Ray, my man, this steak is like butter! 
RAY Made just for you, Cookie. 
COOKIE How about some steak sauce? 
RAY No problem. Oh, boy! 
Ray motions to a busboy clearing a table. It's Claude. 
RAY How about some Worchestershire sauce! And clean that damn table. 
Claude grimaces. 
CUT TO: 
Willie laughing, Goldmouth laughing, Poker Face in the bunk laughing. 
POKER FACE Hey, Ray, I know you got some gambling! 
CUT TO: 
Ray at a craps table holding a pair of dice. He looks at Poker Face on his bunk. 
RAY C'mon, Poker Face, what's a club without some dice? 
The CAMERA PULLS BACK as Ray throws the dice. A perfect seven. The CAMERA PANS UP to Poker Face in a tux clutching a fistful of cash. 
POKER FACE Lucky seven! My nigger! Let it ride! 
Across the room, Jangle Leg, in a tux, sits at the piano. Radio, also in a tux, beats on the drums. 
JANGLE LEG Sing, girlfriend! 
Biscuit sings the song, smiling lovingly at her man. Everyone is having a great time in Ray's Boom-Boom Room, until... 
Whistles blow. At the front door, Hoppin' Bob appears with FIVE TRUSTIES dressed in police outfits. The incorrigibles scatter. 
RADIO Hey, Ray, looks like trouble! 
A hard white light from Hoppin' Bob's flashlight shines directly into the CAMERA. 
CLOSE ON Ray, in his bed, back in the old bunkhouse. The music stops abruptly. He shields his eyes from the harsh light. Hoppin' Bob is looming over him. It's back to reality. 
HOPPIN' BOB You don't shut up, you're gonna spend the rest of the night in the hole, Gibson! That goes for the rest of you girls, too. I don't want to hear another peep about no Boom-Boom fucking Room! 
A loud burst of flatulence cuts through the darkness. Hoppin' Bob turns his flashlight on Cookie. 
COOKIE Sorry, Cap'n. 
Scowling, Hoppin' Bob steps out of the cage and locks the door behind him. The men slowly settle back in. 
RADIO (whispering) Pretty good story, Ray. Didn't much care for the ending though. 
Lights out at Camp 8. 
EXT. CAMP 8 -- YARD -- DAY 
Ray's eyes blink open. Claude holds out a hand and helps him stand up. They share a look. They made it. 
ABERNATHY (scowling) Sergeant Dillard, make sure these two are out in the fields first thing in the morning. 
Abernathy turns on his heels. Dillard considers the two tough guys standing before him. 
DILLARD Go on, get inside. 
Ray and Claude stagger toward the bunkhouse as the incorrigibles gather on the porch and help them in out of the sun. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INSERT -- TIME PASSAGE 
(Note: This montage is mixed with 16mm and Super 8 footage. A beautiful 1940s song plays over.) 
A. King Kong is machined-gunned off the top of the Empire State Building... 
B. FDR introduces his New Deal... 
C. The incorrigibles chop weeds... 
D. With Willie and Claude standing guard, Ray samples a batch of moonshine from a secret still in his footlocker... 
E. At the height of the depression, poor people line up in front of a soup kitchen... 
F. Ray and the crew sit around the poker table playing cards and laughing... 
G. Ray opens a letter and pulls out a snapshot of his mama which he places over his bunk. 
H. The incorribles level a road... 
I. Jesse Owens wins the 100 meter race at the 1936 Olympics in Berlin... 
J. Benny Goodman sets the kids dancing with wild abandon in the aisles of the Paramount Theater... 
K. The Hindenburg bursts into flames... 
L. Claude writes a letter, "Dear Sylvia"... 
M. In the juke joint, Sylvia reads the letter and smiles. She shows it to a few other WORKING GIRLS... 
N. Adolf Hitler stabs the air in front of a foreboding sea of Nazis... 
O. The 1939 World's Fair opens in New York... 
P. Ray nails a sign to the side of the bunkhouse: RAY'S BOOM BOOM ROOM. He steps back to admire the effect. Behind him, Sylvia and her friends mingle with the incorrigibles in the yard... Dillard takes his cut as Claude and Sylvia head for the tonk house. Ray and his date step up... 
Q. Lou Gehrig is honored at Yankee Stadium. "Today I consider myself the luckiest man on the face of the Earth..." 
R. With a pillow stuffed under a home-made Santa outfit, Ray distributes chocolate to the incorrigibles while Claude and Willie decorate the saddest little Christmas tree you ever saw. 
S. The 1940 Oldsmobile is introduced... 
T. Japanese Zeros bomb Pearl Harbor... 
U. FDR declares "a day that will live in infamy."... 
V. A WWII newsreel shows American G.I. s storming a beach in the South Pacific... 
INT. MESS HALL (1943) -- NIGHT 
The inmates of Camp 8 cheer for the American soldiers up on a makeshift movie screen. Instead of black and white stripes, the prisoners now wear blue twill. In an audience of new faces, the CAMERA FINDS some familiar ones. Ray and Claude are surrounded by their crew -- Willie, Radio, Poker Face, Cookie, Biscuit, Jangle Leg and Goldmouth. A decade has passed. 
EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY 
A line of NEW PRISONERS stands before Dillard, now 10 years older. 
DILLARD ...Camp 8 is for incorrigibles, so whatever you've done to get here, believe me, we are not impressed. You new men are probably noticing that we have no fences here at Camp 8. We don't need no fences, we have the gun line. It runs from shack to shack clear around the yard -- 
Dillard pauses in front of a big country boy who can't be more than 18 years old. The kid is bouncing a rubber ball. 
DILLARD What the hell you think you're doing? 
The kid don't answer. An OLD GUY steps forward. 
OLD GUY Excuse me, boss. That kid don't talk. Something wrong with his head, just can't get right, boss. 
DILLARD Can't get right, huh? We'll see how long he last. Now, where was I? 
HOPPIN' BOB We don't need no fences at Camp 8, boss. 
DILLARD That's right. We don't need no fences, we have the gun line. It runs from shack to shack clear around the yard. You are now inside the gun line... 
INT. BUNKHOUSE -- DAY 
A plump PIG roots about in a small pen. A sign dangles from a post -- "First Prize." The incorrigibles of Camp 8 limber up for the big game with the inmates of Camp 12 across the field. 
POKER FACE Think you can handle something that big, Cookie? 
COOKIE I handled your mama, didn't I? Don't y'all worry. I got plans for that bad boy. Ain't none of him going to waste. 
Beyond the fence, a late-model sedan rolls up. STAN BLOCKER, in a straw hat and a rumpled suit, climbs out and stretches his legs. Irritated, he smacks a mosquito and exchanges a few words with Dillard. 
DILLARD Banks! Get over here! 
Claude hustles over, removing his hat. 
DILLARD This is Stan Blocker. Scout for the Nigger Leagues. 
BLOCKER Negro Leagues, actually. Pittsburgh Crawfords. Ever hear of us? 
CLAUDE We get the games on the radio sometimes. 
BLOCKER We played down in Jackson yesterday. Heard a rumor you've got a boy up here who can hit the ball a ton. 
CLAUDE You probably mean Can't Get Right. That's him over there. 
BLOCKER Can't Get Right? That's the kid's name? Can I talk to him? 
CLAUDE You can try, but you won't get too far. Why you interested? 
BLOCKER Crawford's are always looking for new talent. 
CLAUDE Maybe you didn't notice, but this is a prison. 
BLOCKER There are ways around that. Right sergeant? 
Blocker winks at Dillard, then glances at the incorrigibles practicing in the field. Goldmouth, Cookie, Poker Face, Biscuit -- they don't exactly inspire confidence. 
BLOCKER Nice looking squad. See you after the game. 
Blocker takes a seat on the bench. 
EXT. BASEBALL FIELD -- DAY 
The inmates of Camp 12 are in the field. Our boys from Camp 8 cheer for Cookie digging in at the plate. Ray taunts the opposition from the third base line. 
The PITCHER winds up and releases a fast ball. Cookie swings and connects for a base hit up the middle. 
IN THE STANDS 
Mrs. Abernathy and Mrs. Dillard share a box of Cracker Jack. 
MRS. ABERNATHY Of course, the superintendent's hoping for a boy, but personally, I'd prefer a girl. 
MRS. DILLARD Whatever it is will be a little gift from heaven. Look at the way she glows. 
Mae Rose sits next to them. She is SIX MONTHS PREGNANT. She removes her sunglasses and coyly bites a fingernail when she spots Can't Get Right in the on-deck circle. 
DOWN ON THE FIELD 
Can't Get Right smiles shyly. Sensing trouble, Claude ushers Can't Get Right toward the plate, massaging his shoulders. 
CLAUDE You're my boy, just keep what little mind you have focused on the game. If you hit that ball the way I know you can, you might just be our ticket off this farm. 
Can't Get Right digs in. Claude returns to the sidelines and appeals to the gods. The pitcher winds up and releases a fast ball. Can't Get Right connects with that familiar CRACK! Blocker stands up and watches the ball clear the fence and just keep going. 
With his team cheering him on, Can't Get Right trots around the bases. But he's still looking at Mae Rose. 
EXT. CAMP 8 YARD (LATER) -- DAY 
Cookie slowly turns the pig on a spit over an open fire. The incorrigibles are savoring a victory feast. As always, trusty guards keep an eye on things. 
Off to the side, Blocker is laughing with Ray and Claude. He takes a hit off Ray's bottle of shine. It's not his first, either. 
BLOCKER Mark my words, within five years there's gonna be a colored man playing in the majors. 
RAY Come on, the world hasn't changed that much. 
BLOCKER Maybe not yet. But it will. And I'll be out of a job. Damn, that's some tasty hooch. 
CLAUDE It's amazing what Ray here can do with a couple of pounds of potato skins and some molasses. 
RAY So, Blocker, what do you think of our boy? 
BLOCKER I think that boy could be the next Josh Gibson. I'm gonna talk to the front office about him, you can bet on that. Damn, it's getting late. We got a game in Memphis tomorrow. 
Blocker starts for his car, parked just beyond the gun line. 
CLAUDE What about us? Don't forget to mention us. 
Confused, Abernathy looks back and forth between the two men. Then Willie steps forward. 
WILLIE Actually, it was me, boss. I know I may look old... 
BISCUIT Any fool could see that baby's mine, boss. 
COOKIE I beg to differ. That cute little rascal belongs to me... 
POKER FACE I'm the father... 
RADIO I'm the father, boss... 
GOLDMOUTH I'm the father... 
JANGLE LEG I'm the father... 
And so it goes down the line, until every last man of Camp 8 has stepped forward to claim kinship with the Superintendent. Even hard-ass Dillard can't help cracking a smile. Disgusted, confused and thoroughly fed up, Abernathy jams the revolver into his belt and climbs into the car. As he guns the engine, Mae Rose gazes out the back window, smiling one last time at the father of her baby. Can't Get Right smiles back. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY 
It's visiting Sunday and Ray's Boom Boom Room is in full swing. Sylvia's girls are everywhere. Down at the gunline, Dillard takes his cut from inmates lined up for their turn in the tonk. A FIVE-PIECE PRISON BAND is playing the blues. Nearby, Willie is dispensing Ray's moonshine from a bunkhouse window. He raises a jar in a toast. 
WILLIE To Superintendent Abernathy. May he have many more grandchildren! 
The incorrigibles erupt in boisterous agreement. Claude grabs Can't Get Right and shakes him. 
CLAUDE What I want to know is where? When? How? 
WILLIE Wasting your breath, Claude. He ain't the type to kiss and tell. 
Just then, Rev. Clay and his daughter emerge from the mess hall and start across the yard. It's a good thing the old man is blind because he wouldn't want to see how far his flock has strayed. The Reverend inhales deeply as one of Sylvia's girls passes nearby. 
REV. CLAY There's a sweet fragrance in the air today. 
CLAY'S DAUGHTER The magnolias are blooming early this year, daddy. 
Blissed out incorrigibles enjoy a last dance as the band downshifts into a slow, sultry number. In the midst of the dancers, Claude clings to Sylvia. Nearby, Jangle Leg dances intimately with a YOUNG WOMAN. 
Up on the porch, Ray refreshes Biscuit's drink. Biscuit has been crying and it shows. The liquor probably isn't helping. 
RAY Don't take it so hard, Biscuit. She don't mean nothin' to him. 
BISCUIT Hell with him. It ain't that. 
He pulls some folded sheets of paper from his pocket, passes them to Ray. 
RAY These are free papers. 
BISCUIT (devastated) What am I gonna do out there, Ray? I can't go home to my mama like this. I'll get the strap for sure. 
RAY Come on, Biscuit, this is good news. Your mama's gonna break down in tears when you show up on her doorstep. 
Poker Face leans in. 
POKER FACE (sotto) I'll give you three to one she gives him the strap. 
Ray gives Poker face a shove, then turns back to Biscuit. 
RAY It's 1945. It's a different world now. 
BISCUIT Not for me, it ain't. 
RAY Well you can't stay here, Biscuit. This ain't no life for a man. Any one of these fellas would give their right arm to be in your shoes. I sure know I would. 
Ray hands back the papers and heads off to dance with a PRETTY YOUNG WOMAN lingering nearby. Left alone, Biscuit polishes off his moonshine and checks his reflection in the bunkhouse window. 
BISCUIT No life on the inside, no life on the outside... 
He crumples the discharge papers and drops them. Then he steps down from the porch and walks calmly past the dancing prisoners toward the gun line. 
Ray lifts his head off his date's shoulder. Something about the way Biscuit is walking suggests that he isn't going to stop. 
RAY Hey, Biscuit...! 
But it's too late. Biscuit crosses the gun line and keeps walking, his eyes focused on the horizon. 
TRUSTY Man over the line! 
The band stops playing, the dancers grow still. Dillard turns around and squints. 
DILLARD Goddamnit, Biscuit, get back here! 
But Biscuit isn't paying attention. He breaks into a run. Dillard nods to Hoppin' Bob who raises his rifle and draws a bead. But he can't pull the trigger. He lowers his gun. 
Suddenly enraged, Ray hauls off and knocks Claude down with a solid right. Surprised, Claude touches his bloody lip. 
RAY My daddy died in prison. He gave up hope and hung himself. What you're talking about is the same damn thing. That ain't how I'm going. 
CLAUDE Maybe you're fooling yourself, Ray. Maybe you're just a chip off the old block. 
RAY Take that back or we ain't friends no more, Claude Banks. 
CLAUDE Here's a news flash, Ray. We never were friends. We've just been stuck together for 12 years. It's been nothing but bad luck since the moment I ran into you. Every time I look at you I get sick to my stomach thinking about what my life could have been if I'd never bumped into Ray Gibson. 
A hard look comes to Ray's eyes as Claude rises to his feet. 
RAY Better watch yourself Claude, before you say something you regret. 
CLAUDE The only thing I regret is the day I met you. 
RAY Well, if that's the way it is... 
CLAUDE That's the way it is. 
RAY Then I have nothing left to say to you. 
Ray walks away, leaving Claude to nurse his split lip. 
CLAUDE You never said nothing of value anyway. 
INSERT -- TIME PASSAGE 
A. In his Pittsburgh Crawfords uniform, Can't Get Right lays into a fast ball, sending it soaring into the bleachers... 
B. People dance in the street in Time Square, marking the end of WWII... 
C. Hoppin' Bob drops a package on Ray's bunk. Ray rips off the brown paper to reveal a book: "So You Want to Learn to Fly..." 
D. Claude and Sylvia make love in the tonk house... 
E. In the mess hall, Ray pointedly carries his tray past a table where Claude sits with Willie... 
F. An A-bomb explodes in the Bikini Atolls... 
G. Jimmy Stewart hugs his wife and children at the end of "It's a Wonderful Life"... 
H. Jackie Robinson slides across home plate at Ebbets Field... 
I. Ray runs full tilt across a field toward a barn. Sure enough, there's the single engine crop duster parked right where he said it would be... 
J. Claude and another INMATE repair a hole in the bunkhouse roof. They dive for cover as Ray's crop duster swoops low overhead and dips out of sight beyond the trees. A puff of smoke rises into the sky... 
K. Soot-stained, Ray is marched to the hole and shoved inside... 
L. Newly elected president Harry Truman holds up a copy of the Chicago Tribune baring the headline "Dewey Defeats Truman"... 
M. RCA unveils the first color television... 
N. Cars pull up next to speaker poles in front of a drive-in movie screen... 
O. In the bunkhouse, early rock and roll plays on a modern 1950s radio that sits where the old vacuum tube receiver used to be. A YOUNG TOUGH now occupies Radio's old bunk... 
P. At the poker table, Poker Face slumps forward onto his pile of chips, revealing a straight flush. The other men quickly fold... 
Q. With a TRUSTY standing guard, Claude and Ray silently shovel dirt into Poker Face's grave. The CAMERA MOVES past gravemarkers -- Biscuit, Jangle Leg, Radio... 
R. Marilyn Monroe's skirt rises on a blast of subway air in "The Seven-Year Itch"... 
S. Rosa Parks is arrested for refusing to sit in the back of the bus... 
T. Elvis Presley creates a sensation on the Ed Sullivan Show... 
U. School children learn to "duck and cover" in the event of nuclear attack... 
V. The inmates of Camp 8 work to level a road. Ray's on one side, Claude's on the other... 
W. Prisoners mingle with friends and family on visiting Sunday. Claude waits on the bunkhouse steps. His face brightens when Sylvia appears... 
X. Blacks sit-in at lunch counters in Greensboro, N.C... 
Y. Kennedy is elected... 
Z. OMITTED... 
AA. Martin Luther King delivers his "I have a dream" speech at the Lincoln Memorial... 
BB. The Zapruder footage of Kennedy being shot... 
CC. American soldiers jump down from helicopters and run for the jungles in Vietnam... 
Suddenly, he makes a break for the Dillard house. 
TRUSTY Man over the line! 
Ray turns to see Claude dashing across no-man's land. Shots ring out from the shooter shack, kicking up dirt around Claude's feet as he serpentines across the field. 
EXT. DILLARD'S HOUSE -- DAY 
Breathless, Claude makes it to the kitchen window and digs his hand into the golden-brown crust, shoving a sloppy fistful of pie into his mouth. More shots ring out. Bullets PING all around him. Grabbing the pie, he darts around the side of the building, out of range. Back against the wall, he drops down on his haunches, snarfing pie like a hungry wolf. 
EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY 
A case of empty Coke bottles sits in the middle of the yard, glinting in the hot sun. His face smeared with boysenberry, Claude finishes taking off his boots and socks and steps barefoot onto the bottles. 
DILLARD Comfortable? 
CLAUDE As a pair of fur-lined bedroom slippers, boss. 
DILLARD We'll see what those slippers feel like after, say, 24 hours. And if you step down off them bottles -- if one toe so much as touches the dirt -- one of these boys is gonna shoot you dead. Let's see. We need a special man for this job. 
He takes a trusty's rifle and moves among the inmates, who have gathered around. He stops when he gets to Ray. 
DILLARD How about it, Ray? 
Ray glances at Claude, then back at Dillard. 
DILLARD I'll make you trusty right now. If that pie-eatin' son of a bitch falls off those bottles and you have to shoot him, I'll see to it you get a pardon. Hell, I'll personally escort you out the gate. 
Dillard offers the rifle to Ray, who doesn't have to think too long. 
RAY You don't want to give me a gun, boss. I'm liable to use it on you. 
EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- SUNDOWN 
Ray's been given the same treatment as Claude. Barefoot, balanced on Coke bottles, the two men stand a few feet apart facing each other. A trusty with a rifle keeps an eye on them. After years of silence, the tension reaches the breaking point... 
CLAUDE You're a sucker. I'd have taken that deal. 
RAY Excuse me? Are you talking to me? 
CLAUDE I'd have knocked you off those bottles, put a bullet in your ass and be half way to New York right now. 
RAY After all these years of blissful silence, I almost forgot how annoying the sound of your voice can be. 
CLAUDE I hope you don't think I owe you anything. Because I don't owe you a damn thing. 
RAY I didn't do if for you, anyway. I just ain't no boot-licking trusty, that's all. 
The trusty tightens his grip on his rifle. He'd love the opportunity. 
CLAUDE I was sorry to hear about your mama passing. 
RAY That was five years ago. 
CLAUDE I know, but since we're talking, I thought I'd mention it. 
RAY We're not talking, you're talking, and doing too damn much of it, if you ask me. 
They stand in stony silence. Then Ray starts to laugh. A long, low belly laugh. 
CLAUDE What?! 
RAY You sure looked funny running for those pies, bullets flying all around you. 
CLAUDE Bullets weren't the problem. That pie was too hot. Burned my tongue. 
The two men start to laugh. Really laugh. Nearly a decade's worth of laughter comes welling up out of them, and they nearly lose their balance, which only makes them laugh harder. 
EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY 
A trusty bangs the rap iron. Young prisoners pour from the bunkhouse and line up for breakfast. Claude and Ray bring up the rear, the elder statesmen of the bunch. By a long shot. 
DILLARD Fourteen acres today and only 12 hours of daylight! Eat up and move it out! Gibson! Banks! Get your sorry asses over here! 
Claude and Ray step out of line and approach Dillard. 
DILLARD Every morning I wake up praying that Ray Gibson and Claude Banks have died in their sleep and every morning you disappoint me. 
RAY AND CLAUDE Sorry, boss. 
DILLARD I stand before you a defeated man. Try as I might, I can't seem to break you. I swear, if they dropped a nuclear bomb on this camp, you and the cockroaches would be the only things left. But starting today at least I won't have to endure your presence any longer. You've got fifteen minutes to clear out your footlockers. You're both being reassigned to the Superintendent's mansion. And I, for one, will not miss you. 
Ray and Claude share a look. Then Ray embraces Dillard, who stoically endures the breach of his personal space. 
RAY I always wanted to do that. (sighing) There is so much love inside of this man. 
PIKE He's crazy. Don't listen to him, Wilkins. 
WILKINS Do you realize what your saying, Gibson? 
RAY That watch was the only thing my daddy ever gave me. It meant the world to me. 
PIKE Goddamn it, Wilkins, would you please just shoot the nigger! 
RAY He shoots me, I swear I'll take you with me! I just want to hear you say it. 
WILKINS Is there any truth to what he's saying, Pike? 
PIKE What difference does it make? Natchez was better off without Winston Hancock! Who cares if a couple of no- account bootleggers went to jail for his killing? At least the state of Mississippi got 40 years of cheap labor out of the deal! 
CLAUDE Forty years of cheap labor! Gimme that gun. 
Claude grabs for the gun. 
RAY No, I'm gonna kill him -- 
CLAUDE No, believe me, I'm gonna kill him! 
Claude yanks the gun free and points it right in Pike's face. Wilkins trains his gun on Claude. But the moment passes. Claude lowers the gun. Bewildered, Wilkins does the same. 
CLAUDE I can't do it. 
RAY That's because you're soft. Gimme the gun. 
CLAUDE What'd you say? 
RAY I said you're soft. 
CLAUDE Don't call me soft, I hate it when you call me that. 
Ray mouths the word -- "soft." Claude clenches his jaw, points the gun and pulls the trigger. Click. 
Pike smirks and pulls a small gun from his boot. But as he raises it -- BLAM! Pike is hurled backward by a shotgun blast. Shocked, Ray and Claude look at Wilkins, his gun still smoking in his hands. 
After a significant beat, Ray reaches down and gingerly retrieves his daddy's gold pocket watch. 
RAY I believe this is mine. 
EXT. SUPERINTENDENT'S MANSION -- DAY 
A gurney carrying Pike's body is lifted into the back of a van by two COUNTY CORONERS. Nearby, a distraught Wilkins tells his story to a couple of SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES. 
WILKINS ...I was drawing a bead on a bird when Mr. Pike just stepped into my line of fire. 
DEPUTY #1 Where were the two convicts when the shot was fired? 
WILKINS They were busy loading up the truck. We got him back here as quick as possible, but... I just feel terrible about this... 
INT. MANSION -- DAY 
Ray and Claude watch through the window as Wilkins talks to the deputies. 
CLAUDE Why don't he just tell 'em the truth? 
RAY He knows nobody wants to hear the truth. 
One of the deputies pats Wilkins sympathetically on the back. Then he and his partner put away their notebooks and head for their vehicle. Wilkins heads up the steps and into the house. 
WILKINS Well, I think they bought it. One of the deputies belongs to my church. 
Visibly shaken, Wilkins takes a seat, wiping the sweat from his brow with a handkerchief. 
WILKINS I realize there's no way... There's nothing I can say to make up for forty years... I'll have Charlotte prepare those pardon papers right away. 
Wilkins winces and swallows a couple of pills from his box. 
WILKINS Claude, mind helping me to the bathroom? 
CLAUDE (giving him a hand) Sure, boss. 
WILKINS I'm not your boss. Not anymore. 
EXT. PRISON CEMETERY (PRESENT) -- DAY 
Jake looks at Willie expectantly. 
JAKE So Ray and Claude got their pardons, right? 
LEON (smacking him) No, they didn't get their pardons, you dumb shit! If they'd got their pardons way back then, we wouldn't be burying them today, would we? 
JAKE (chewing on it) Oh, right. Well, why didn't they get those pardons? 
NURSE HUMPHRIES Who wants Jell-O? 
The magic word. The poker players join a stampede of oldsters in a clatter of canes, walkers and artificial limbs. Ray and Claude are left alone at the table. 
RAY Hey, where you going? We got money on the table here! 
Claude glances around to ensure that he's not overheard. 
CLAUDE You know, Ray, I've been chewing on what you said this afternoon. I think I got a plan. 
Ray gives Claude a long look. 
RAY Are you trying to tell me after all this time you finally have a plan for busting out of here? 
CLAUDE Shh! Is that so hard to believe? 
RAY Don't tell me, I don't want to hear it. It's probably all fucked up, anyway. 
CLAUDE You don't want to hear it, you don't want to hear it. There's no shame in that. 
RAY It's too late for plans. 
CLAUDE Never thought I'd hear Ray Gibson say that. Hell with you then. You'd only slow me down anyway. 
Ray turns away as Claude walks off. A DODDERING INMATE stands nearby slurping on Jell-O. His robe hangs open. 
RAY Hey, man, cover that shit up! 
Disgusted, Ray discards his own Jell-O. He pulls out his daddy's pocket watch and checks the time. The little mechanical tune nags at him. He snaps the lid shut and considers the watch resting in the palm of his hand. 
OMITTED 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
EXT. INFIRMARY -- NIGHT 
The building is dark. But then, through a first-floor window, we see the unmistakable orange glow of a fire. 
INT. INFIRMARY -- NIGHT 
An ALARM BLARES as the place fills with smoke. Wearing a robe and slippers, Nurse Humphries runs among the prisoners, helping them out the door. 
EXT. INFIRMARY -- NIGHT 
Coughing and disheveled, Ray emerges onto the lawn pushing Willie in the wheelchair. As other prisoners evacuate the building, Ray looks around for Claude, but he doesn't see him. Nurse Humphries takes a quick head count. 
NURSE HUMPHRIES Is everyone here? 
RAY Hey, where's Claude? I don't see Claude! 
NURSE HUMPHRIES Stay calm, Ray. We'll find him. Claude! Has anyone seen Claude? 
RAY He must still be in there. 
Grimly, Ray starts toward the burning infirmary. Nurse Humphries holds him back. 
NURSE HUMPHRIES Wait for the firemen! 
RAY It'll be too late. 
NURSE HUMPHRIES You can't go in there, Ray! You'll never make it! 
RAY I'm going in for him. He'd do the same for me. 
Ray shakes her off and runs up the steps, disappearing into the burning building. 
INT. INFIRMARY -- NIGHT 
Ray dodges flames as he presses into the inferno. 
EXT. INFIRMARY -- NIGHT 
Nurse Humphries, Willie and the rest of the inmates watch grimly as flames engulf the building. Nobody could survive this blaze. From the highway comes the siren wail of approaching fire engines. But it's too late. Sparks erupt into the night sky as the roof collapses... 
EXT. INFIRMARY -- DAWN 
Fire trucks pull away from the smoldering ruins. A local REPORTER interviews witnesses. INVESTIGATORS comb through the wreckage, making notes. COUNTY CORONERS pull a couple of gurneys from the back of their van. 
EXT. INFIRMARY RUINS -- DAY 
Superintendent Bill Burke is led through the destruction by a FIRE INSPECTOR. They approach the coroners as they finish zipping up two body bags. 
BURKE How did it start? 
FIRE INSPECTOR Probably old wires. The place was a tinderbox just waiting to go. 
