THE LITTLE MERMAID 
The complete script Compiled by Corey Johanningmeier Portions copyright (c)1989 by Walt Disney Co. 
(Cut to Flotsam and Jetsam, then Ursula in background watching magic projection of Ariel swimming.) 
Ursula: Yeeeeeees, hurry home, princess.  We wouldn't want to miss old daddy's celebration, now, would we?  Huh!  Celebration indeed.  Bah!  In MY day, we had fantastical feasts when I lived in the palace.  And now, look at me - wasted away to practically nothing - banished and exiled and practically starving, while he and his flimsy fish-folk celebrate.  Well, I'll give 'em something to celebrate soon enough.  Flotsam!  Jetsam!  I want you to keep an extra close watch on this pretty little daughter of his.  She may be the key to Triton's undoing. . . . 
Sebastian: How do I get myself into these situations?  I should be writing symphonies - not tagging along after some headstrong teenager. (Sees Ariel and Flounder sneaking off and follows.) Hmm? What is that girl up to? (He barely makes it into cave and sees Ariel's collection.) Huh? Flounder: Ariel, are you okay? Ariel: If only I could make him understand.  I just don't see things the way he does. I don't see how a world that makes such wonderful things - could be bad. 
Look at this stuff Isn't it neat? Wouldn't you think my collection's complete? Wouldn't you think I'm the girl The girl who has ev'rything? Look at this trove Treasures untold How many wonders can one cavern hold? Lookin' around here you'd think Sure, she's got everything 
What would I give If I could live Outta these waters? What would I pay To spend a day Warm on the sand? Betcha on land They understand Bet they don't reprimand their daughters Bright young women Sick o' swimmin' Ready to stand 
And ready to know what the people know Ask 'em my questions And get some answers What's a fire and why does it (What's the word?) burn? 
Sebastion: Ariel, what - what are you- jumpin' jellyfish! Ariel, Ariel! Please come back! (Ariel swims to ship and watches party until Max finds her.) Eric: (Whistles.) Max, here boy. Hey, come on, mutt, whatcha doing, huh Max? Good boy. (Ariel sees him and is stricken.) Scuttle: Hey there, sweetie!  Quite a show, eh? Ariel: Scuttle, be quiet!  They'll hear you. Scuttle: Oooh, I gotcha, I gotcha.  We're being intrepidatious.  WE'RE OUT TO DISCOVER! (Ariel grabs his beak.) Ariel: I've never seen a human this close before.  Oh - he's very handsome, isn't he? Scuttle: (Looking at Max) I dunno, he looks kinda hairy and slobbery to me. Ariel: Not that one - the one playing the snarfblat. Grimsby: Silence!  Silence!  It is now my honour and privilege to present our esteemed Prince Eric with a very special, very expensive, very large birthday present. Eric: Ah, Grimsby - y'old beanpole, you shouldn't have. Grimsby: I know. Happy birthday, Eric! (Large, gaudy statue of Eric is revealed. Max growls.) Eric: Gee, Grim.  It's, err, it's, err - it's really somethin'. . . . Grimsby: Yes, I commissioned it myself.  Of course, I had hoped it would be a wedding present, but . . . Eric: Come on, Grim, don't start.  Look, you're not still sore because I didn't fall for the princess of Glauerhaven, are you? Grimsby: Oh, Eric, it isn't me alone.  The entire kingdom wants to see you happily settled down with the right girl. Eric: Well, she's out there somewhere.  I just - I just haven't found her yet. Grimsby: Well, perhaps you haven't been looking hard enough. Eric: Believe me, Grim, when I find her I'll know - without a doubt.  It'll just - bam! - hit me - like lightning. (Lightning and thunder appear and the sky grows dark.) Sailor: Hurricane a'commin'!! Stand fast! Secure the riggin'! (Storm hits.) Scuttle: Whoa! The wind's all of a sudden on the move here. (He is blown away.) Oh! Ariel . . . (Ship crashes through storm. Lightning starts a fire. A rock looms ahead.) Eric: Look out! . . . (Ship crashes and all are thrown overboard except Max.) Grim, hang on! (Sees Max.) Max! (Goes back to save him.) Jump Max! Come on boy, jump! You can do it Max. (He saves Max but is trapped on board.) Grimsby: ERIC! (Ship explodes. Ariel finds Eric near drowning and pulls him away.) 
(On beach. Ariel is sitting next to an unconscious Eric.) 
(Sebastion and Flounder have washed up and are watching scene. Max and Grimsby approach. Ariel hurries away.) Grimsby: Eric!  Oh, Eric.  You really delight in these sadistic strains on my blood pressure, don't you? Eric: A girl - rescued me. . . .  She was - singing . . . she had the most - beautiful voice. Grimsby: Ah, Eric, I think you've swallowed a bit too much seawater.  Off we go.  Come on, Max. Sebastian: We just gotta forget this whole thing ever happened.  The sea king will never know.  You won't tell him, I won't tell him.  I will stay in one piece. Ariel: I don't know when I don't know how But I know something's starting right now Watch and you'll see Some day I'll be Part of your world 
(Flotsam and Jetsam appear. Fade to Ursula watching from her chamber.) 
Under the sea Under the sea Nobody beat us Fry us and eat us In fricassee We what the land folks loves to cook Under the sea we off the hook We got no troubles Life is the bubbles Under the sea Under the sea Since life is sweet here We got the beat here Naturally Even the sturgeon an' the ray They get the urge 'n' start to play We got the spirit You got to hear it Under the sea 
The newt play the flute The carp play the harp The plaice play the bass And they soundin' sharp The bass play the brass The chub play the tub The fluke is the duke of soul (Yeah) The ray he can play The lings on the strings The trout rockin' out The blackfish she sings The smelt and the sprat They know where it's at An' oh that blowfish blow 
Triton: Let's see, now. . . .  Oh, who could the lucky merman be? (Notices Sebastion.) Come in, Sebastion. Sebastian: (Sotto) I mustn't overreact.  I must remain calm.  (Five octaves higher than normal) Yes - (loco) yes, Your Majesty. Triton: Now, Sebastian, I'm concerned about Ariel.  Have you noticed she's been acting peculiar lately? Sebastian: Peculiar? Triton: You know, moaning about, daydreaming, singing to herself. . . .  You haven't noticed, hmm? Sebastian: Oh - well, I - Triton: Sebastian. . . . Sebastian: Hmmm? Triton: I know you've been keeping something from me. . . . Sebastian: Keeping . . . something? Triton: About Ariel? Sebastian: Ariel . . . ? Triton: In love? Sebastian: I tried to stop her, sir.  She wouldn't listen.  I told her to stay away from humans - they are bad, they are trouble, they - Triton: Humans?  WHAT ABOUT HUMANS? Sebastian: Humans?  Ho ho ho ho. . . . Who said anything about humans? 
(Fade to Ariel and Flounder entering cave.) 
I admit that in the past I've been a nasty They weren't kidding when they called me, well, a witch But you'll find that nowadays I've mended all my ways Repented, seen the light and made a switch True? Yes 
And I fortunately know a little magic It's a talent that I always have possessed And here lately, please don't laugh I use it on behalf Of the miserable, lonely and depressed (Pathetic) 
The men up there don't like a lot of blabber They think a girl who gossips is a bore Yes, on land it's much preferred For ladies not to say a word And after all, dear, what is idle prattle for? 
Come on, they're not all that impressed with conversation True gentlemen avoid it when they can But they dote and swoon and fawn On a lady who's withdrawn It's she who holds her tongue who gets her man 
Eric: (Playing flute.) That voice. I can't get it out of my head. I've looked everywhere, Max - where could she be? (On other side of rocks Ariel is washed up. Sebastion and Flounder are exausted. Ariel sees her legs and is amazed.) Scuttle: Well, look at what the catfish dragged in!  Look at ya!  Look at ya! There's something different.  Don't tell me - I got it.  It's your hairdo, right?  You've been using the dinglehopper, right?  No?  No huh, well let me see.  New . . . seashells?  No new seashells.  I gotta admit I can't put my foot on it right now, but if I just stand here long enough I know that I'll - Sebastian: SHE'S GOT LEGS, YOU IDIOT!  She traded her voice to the sea witch and got legs.  Jeez, man . . . Scuttle: I knew that. Flounder: Ariel's been turned into a human. She's gotta make the prince fall in love with her, and he's gotta ki- he's gotta kiss her. (Ariel tries to get up.) Sebastion: And she's only got three days. Just look at her. On legs. On human legs! My nerves are shot. This is a catastrophe!  What would her father say? I'll tell you what her father'd say, he'd say he's gonna kill himself a crab, that's what her father'd say! I'm gonna march meself straight home right now and tell him just like I shoulda done de minute- (Ariel grabs him.) . . . and don't you shake your head at me, young lady.  Maybe there's still time. If we could get that witch to give you back your voice, you could go home with all the normal fish, and just be . . . just be . . . just be miserable for the rest of your life.  All right, all right.  I'll try to help you find that prince.  Boy.  What a soft-shell I'm turning out to be. Scuttle: Now, Ariel, I'm tellin' ya, if you wanna be a human the first thing you gotta do is dress like one. Now lemme see. 
(Cut to Eric and Max. Max smells Ariel and gets excited.) 
(Cut to Sebastion in dress getting washed.) Woman 1: Well you must have at least heard about this girl. Woman 2: Well, Gretchen says . . . (Sebastion is dunked.) . . . since when has Gretchen got anything right. I mean really, this girl shows up in rags and doesn't speak- Sebastion: Madame, please ! . . . Woman 2: . . . not my idea of a princess. If Eric's looking for a girl, I know a couple of highly available ones right here . . . (Sebastion dives into kitchen and sees various fish cooking. He faints.) 
(Cut to castle dining room.) 
Here's something for tempting the palate Prepared in the classic technique First you pound the fish flat with a mallet Then you slash through the skin Give the belly a slice Then you rub some salt in 'Cause that makes it taste nice Zut alors, I have missed one! 
Sacre bleu What is this? How on earth could I miss Such a sweet little succulent crab? Quel dommage What a loss Here we go in the sauce Now some flour, I think Just a dab Now I stuff you with bread It don't hurt 'cause you're dead And you're certainly lucky you are 'Cause it's gonna be hot In my big silver pot Toodle loo mon poisson Au revoir! 
Eric: Come here boy! . . . Arrr . . . (He sees Ariel and waves. She is emb- arassed and goes back inside.) Sebastian: This has got to be, without a doubt, the single most humiliating day of my life.  I hope you appreciate what I go through for you, young lady. Now - we got to make a plan to get that boy to kiss you.  Tomorrow, when he takes you for that ride, you gotta look your best.  You gotta bat your eyes - like this.  You gotta pucker up your lips - like this. (He sees she is asleep.) Hm. You are hopeless child. You know dat? Completely hopeless . . . 
(Fade to undersea palace. Seahorse swims up to Triton.) 
Eric: Did you hear something? Sebastion: Yes, you want her Look at her, you know you do Possible she wants you too There is one way to ask her It don't take a word Not a single word Go on and kiss the girl 
Sha la la la la la My oh my Look like the boy too shy Ain't gonna kiss the girl Sha la la la la la Ain't that sad? Ain't it a shame? Too bad, he gonna miss the girl 
(Cut to Ursula's cavern.) 
Ursula: Nice work, boys.  That was a close one.  Too close.  The little tramp! Oh, she's better than I thought.  At this rate, he'll be kissing her by sunset for sure.  Well, it's time Ursula took matters into her own tentacles! Triton's daughter will be mine - and then I'll make him writhe.  I'll see him wriggle like a worm on a hook! (Laughing, she transforms into a human with Ariel's voice.) 
Scuttle: Ariel!  Ariel, wake up!  Wake up!  I just heard the news.  Congratula- tions, kiddo, we did it! Sebastian: What is this idiot babbling about? Scuttle: Right - as if you two didn't know, uh?  The whole town's buzzin' about the prince gettin' himself hitched this afternoon!  You know, he's getting married!  You silly sidewalker!  I just wanted to wish you luck.  I'll catch you later, I wouldn't miss it! (Ariel brightens and runs downstairs, only to see Eric and Vanessa together.) Grimsby: Well, uh - err, Eric.  I-it appears that I was mistaken.  This mystery maiden of yours does - in fact exist.  And - and she is lovely.  Congratula- tions, my dear. Eric: We wish to be married as soon as possible. Grimsby: Oh, yes - of course, Eric, but, er - but these things do take time, you know. . . . Eric: This afternoon, Grimsby.  The wedding ship departs at sunset. Grimsby: Oh, oh - very well, Eric - as you wish. (Ariel runs off crying.) 
(Cut to late afternoon as wedding ship starts to leave. Ariel on pier crying bitterly as Sebastion and Flounder look on.) 
