Ed looks in bag. 
EDDY Are you sure you can afford twenty-five? 
SOAP Well that depends on how you look at it. I can afford it as long as I see it again, if that's what you mean. You got the rest from the fat man and Bacon? 
Tom looks on with suspicion. 
TOM Who's this fat man, then? 
EDDY Bacon, the fat man and myself, and it's time to make a call to Harry. 
INT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY 
A hard-looking man of about fifty is sat behind a large antique desk. On this desk is a hatchet resting in a block of wood, poised like a judge's hammer. Harry is obviously in the sex game. Cluttered up in a hazardous way are a selection of dildos, spanking paddles, etc. A cabinet of fine-looking shotguns is placed behind. We have a split screen involving EDDY and his friends (listening in) and Hatchet with one hand on the phone and the other on a shotgun. 
HATCHET You got it all? 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY. 
EDDY A hundred grand. 
FREEZE SHOT OF HATCHET 
TOM (voice-over) You see it's not easy to take a seat at this table; the money involved has to be a hundred grand upwards and there is no shortage of punters. 
EDDY (voice-over) The man who decides if you can play is this man Harry, or Hatchet Harry as some including himself like to call him. 
RELEASE FREEZE SHOT OF HATCHET 
HATCHET Well if you got it, you got it. Now, if you don't mind . . . 
The phone is slammed down. 
SHOT OF HATCHET 
SOAP (voice-over) When the old bastard is not playing cards he's chasing a thousand debts that ill-fated individuals owe for an array of reasons. 
BACON (voice-over) Sex and sleaze and antique shotguns are all deep and dear in Harry's stone cold heart. 
Cut from completed film. 
RELEASE FREEZE SHOT OF HATCHET 
HATCHET What's this EDDY like, then? 
The camera spins round to reveal a massive monster of a man sitting opposite Hatchet. Meet Barry the Baptist. 
FREEZE SHOT OF BARRY 
EDDY (voice-over) Hatchet has a colleague, a monster of a man: Barry the Baptist. 
BACON (voice-over) The Baptist got his name from drowning people for Hatchet. 
TOM (voice-over) But he needs him, because he is good at making sure debts get settled and jobs get done. 
RELEASE FREEZE SHOT OF BARRY 
BARRY EDDY been shaking the knees of a lot of good players. The boy has a rare ability, he seems to make cards transparent, got bluffing dow . . 
HATCHET (interrupts) All right, all right, so we can say he is good. 
BARRY Better than good, he is a fucking liability. 
EXT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - EVENING 
Ed, Bacon, Soap and Tom park outside their house. As they get out they pass Plank and John who have also just parked. They ignore each other, and go to their separate doors. 
INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
BACON places a pile of money on a table. The rest are eating, Tom keeps looking at his plate distastefully. 
BACON Twenty-five from me, Tom, Soap and yourself; a hundred grand to the pound. You don't need to count it. 
EDDY I still will, if you don't mind. 
TOM (eating) So, a reasonable return should be in the region of one hundred and twenty, for twenty-five grand invested. That's going on previous experiences. 
SOAP That's going on optimism. 
TOM Whatever it's going on, it's still enough to send you on a cooking course. 
SOAP You're not funny Tom; you're fat and look as though you should be funny, but you're not. 
Tom is definitely not overweight, quite the opposite in fact. He examines himself to see if something has developed. 
TOM Fat? Who are you calling fat? What are all these fat jokes about? 
The light switch above Tom's head lets out a few sparks causing him to cower in a sharp defensive action. 
Jesus! It's good in here, ain't it! Trains overhead, walls exploding . . . Why the hell did you move in? 
EDDY Because it's cheap like a budgie. 
BACON And nobody wants to live next door to the people that we live next to; a bit anti-social, you know. 
BACON beckons Tom to a cupboard built into the wall. 
TOM What do you mean? 
EDDY He means they're thieving dogs. 
BACON I mean when they are not picking peanuts out of poop, they're ripping off unfortunate souls of their hard-earned drugs. 
BACON opens the cupboard doors and puts his finger to his lips. The noise from next door immediately gets louder. 
Not exactly thick, these walls. 
DOG (off) No you prat, that's for me. 
INT. DOG'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Dog has a small pile of money and pills that he is distributing to his lads. 
DOG How many times do I have to explain this to you, Plank? You find a job worth doing and you will find your share improving . . . Now do you have a problem with that? 
He obviously doesn't. 
INT. ED AIVD BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Tom raises his eyebrows and frowns to Bacon. 
EXT. BIG BOY'S GYM/SOLARiUM - NIGHT 
Meet Big Chris and Little Chris (twelve years old). 
BIG CHRIS How long has he been in there, son? 
JOHN O'DRISCOLL I'll have it for Mr Harry in a few days. I have been busy, and I am nearly there. 
BIG CHRIS Son, have a look in his locker. 
JOHN O'DRISCOLL No chance of you lifting this sunbed up is there? 
* Cut from completed film. 
BIG CHRIS Yeah, all right. 
Big Chris lifts it, then smashes it down again. Now, you want me to lift it up again? 
Little Chris pipes up. Obviously familiar with counting money he has flown through it. 
LITTLE CHRIS He's not poor. Five hundred and sixty pounds and that's just in his wallet . . . Fuckin' 'ell John, you always walk around with that in your pocket? 
The expression on Big Chris's face changes. 
BIG CHRIS Oi! Next time you use language like that, boy, you'll wish you hadn't! 
LITTLE CHRTS Sorry, Dad. 
BIG CHRIS Right, well, put the rest of the stuff in that, son. You can go home in a plastic bag tonight, John. You owe what you owe arid before this tan has faded, you want to have paid. 
Chris punches John unconscious and turns the time dial up. 
INT. JD'S BAR - NIGHT 
JD's bar is an impressive sort of uptown-downtown establishment with pretty girls serving a laddish clientele. The boys are propped up at the bar, looking straight ahead in silence. They look nervous. The silence is broken by Ed. 
EDDY I am going to the john. 
He walks off. 
TOM What you telling us for? The only thing I care about is whether you get your rest in. 
SOAP Tom, you're all heart. 
TOM Listen cooky, you want to make sure that man rests before he plays; it's in all our interests. 
JD (the bar owner and Ed's father) All right lads? How's things? How's it going, Soap? Cooking all right? Where's that son of mine? 
Each time a question is asked the lads try to answer but are just left with their mouths open, which remain open as a gorgeous girl walks through the bar (Daisy). 
INT. SLOANES' HOUSE LABORATORY - NIGHT 
We cut to a small, humid, artificially lit, illegal forest being cultivated for profit. Someone is smoking a joint and raising his eyebrows at his friend. These two characters are J and Charles; they have got hair down to their shoulders, small try-hard goatees and science-lab coats, with nothing much underneath. 
J (coughing) This gear is getting heavier you know, Charles. I got a suspicion we should have been rocket scientists, or Noble Peace Prize winners or something. 
A horn blows (the door bell). 
CHARLES Who the hell is that? 
INT. SLOANES' HOUSE - NIGHT 
The door opens to reveal Willy. Under each arm is a large bag of fertilizer. 
WILLY Give me a hand Charlie, I could break sweat at any second. 
A voice comes from behind them. At the top of the stairs stands Winston. He slowly starts to walk down. 
WINSTON Charles, why have we got this cage? 
DEAN Like what? 
BARRY Like antiques. 
DEAN Antiques? What the fuck do we know about antiques? We rob post offices and steal cars, what the fuck do we know about antiques? 
BARRY If it looks old, it's worth money, simple. So stop fucking moaning and rob the place. 
GARY So who's the Guv? Who we doing this for? 
BARRY You're doing it for me is all you need to know. You only know that because you need to know. 
GARY I see, one of those `on a need to know' basis things, like a James Bond film, is it? 
BARRY Careful, remember who's giving you this job. 
A bit of confused eye-rolling goes on. Barry eventually looks at his watch. 
I am off, it's all yours now. Call me when you're done. 
As he leaves, the two Scousers eye him distastefully. 
GARY (to Dean) I hate these Southern shites. 
BARRY (on his way out, whispering to himself) Fucking Northern monkeys. 
EXT. BOXING CLUB ENTRANCE - NIGHT 
EDDY and the lads have all made an obvious effort with their appearance. They are met by a doorman. 
DOORMAN Invitations. 
EDDY Invitations? 
DOORMAN Yeah invitations, you know a pretty white piece of paper with your name on it. 
EDDY Well we have got about a hundred thousand pretty pieces of paper with the Queen on it. Will that do? 
DOORMAN All right, just you; the others can wait in Samoan Jo's next door. 
EDDY Samoan Jo's? Yon mean the pub? Hold on . . . 
DOORMAN Hold on bollocks, no one but card players in here tonight sonny, and I do mean no one. 
INT. BOXING GYM - NIGHT 
EDDY enters the boxing gym on his own, and raises his eyebrows at the thought of climbing into the ring. Everybody else is sitting down counting their money and converting it to chips. Ed takes the only empty chair and has a quick look around, particularly behind. 
EDDY Evening Frazer, Phil, Don. This is a bit dramatic, isn't it? Is it supposed to be symbolic? 
PHIL/DON All right Ed. Apparently it's for security. 
EDDY I would have brought my gloves if I had known. 
HATCHET You must be Eddy. JD's son. 
EDDY Yup, you must be Harry? Sorry, I didn't know your father. 
HATCHET Never mind son, you just might meet him if you carry on like that. 
There is an attractive blonde croupier shuffling the cards. EDDY 
Evening Tanya, it has been a while. 
HATCHET Four hundred open. 
FRAZER Eight hundred. Like that, do ya, son? 
EDDY When my knees stop knocking I'll live with it. Four hundred blind. 
INT. BOXING GYM CHANGING ROOM - NIGHT 
Barry, who is sitting among sweaty towels, takes out a four-inch monitor and switches it on, and hey presto we can see the card table. The camera is placed behind Ed in one of the four posts. Barry zooms in, pauses on the back of Ed's head, gets his focus and jibs down to view his cards, pauses and re focuses, because Ed is playing blind. He hasn't raised them: there is nothing Barry can do. We cut to Barry's other hand. He is pressing a button on a remote control. We cut straight to Harry's leg which is receiving the pulse. 
BOXING GYM - NIGHT 
HATCHET Listen ladies, this is cards. Men play cards, you want to talk soft you should be at the fucking hairdressers, so shut up and play. (dramatic pause) I fold. 
FRAZER Two thousand open. 
EDDY One thousand blind. 
DON Two thousand open. 
FRAZER Deep end, eh? Fold. 
EDDY Two thousand blind. 
DON You what? 
There is a pause as Don examines Ed's brow looking for a trace of nerves. 
Two grand? You're still blind. You have been eating too much English beef, mate; honkers, mad. 
HATCHET Well, you going to play? 
Cut from completed film. 
DON Fucking right I am going to play. Three thousand, there. 
CROUPIER Four thousand to an open man, you know that. 
We can feel the confidence emanating from Eddy. Don continues to search Ed's forehead waiting for a break of nervous moisture, but it's as dry as a desert disco. 
EDDY Donald, do you know how to play this game? The reason I put in half the anti is because I don't know what I have got. Now play, or fold. 
Silence. 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT. 
Don is thrown out on to the street, screaming and cursing. 
EXT. STATELY HOME - NIGHT 
The Scousers, having now entered, make their way through the large house. 
DEAN OK Gary, we call each other Kenny, all right? 
GARY All right, Kenny. 
Dean looks at Gary's disguise with some distaste. He has a stocking pulled over only half his face. A sexy thigh grip is replicating an artificial, frilly moustache, not giving the desired menacing look. A big bouffant head of hair is neatly being conntrolled up on top. 
DEAN Can't you pull that stocking down further, Kenny? 
GARY It just cost me fifty quid to have this done. (Lovingly rearranging his hair) If you think I am going to ruin it for a couple of old bastards you're mistaken, Kenny. 
INT. BOXING GYM - NIGHT 
DEAN I thought you said no staff, Bazza! 
BARRY You get the guns? 
DEAN You should see what they did to poor Gary. 
Gary wanders past the phone box in a gormless state. He obviously doesn't know what day of the week it is. 
DEAN Gary, get back into the van! 
Barry frowns down the telephone. Yeah, yeah, we got 'em. 
BARRY Good. I'll speak to you later. 
Barry clicks the phone off. Dean looks at Gary and raises his voice as if speaking to a deaf person. 
DEAN Gary, Gary, if you can hear me, I think we better get you back in the van now, OK? 
Dean takes his arm and guides him back into the van. 
BOXING GYM - NIGHT 
Stakes have increased dramatically. There is a pause as Frazer looks at his cards. 
EDDY Twenty thousand open. 
PHIL OK. My Doctor would beat me to a heart attack if he knew what was going on here. I fold. 
HATCHET Got some cards there, boy? Thirty thousand. Back to you already Eddy? 
Hatchet looks impatiently at the door. 
EDDY Fifty grand. 
Hatchet scours Ed's forehead. It is still dry. 
HATCHET Eighty grand. 
BOXING GYM CHANGING ROOM - NIGHT 
Barry, who is trying as hard as he can to see Ed's cards, frustratedly zooms in and out; eventually Ed raises them just enough; Barry jibs, hey bingo he sees Ed's cards! 
Ed's got nothing but a pair of sixes. Barry excitedly starts tapping away. 
INT. BOXING GYM - MGHT 
EDDY One hundred grand. 
FRAZER Hold on fellas, I know . . . 
HATCHER (interrupts j I know you're not in, which means nobody cares what you know. Two hundred and fifty. 
Hatchet and EDDY minutely study each other's hairlines, waiting for a nervous droplet to appear. Sweat breaks; a drop on Ed's forehead, fills frame. Slowly we follow a droplet's journey coursing down Eddy's brow Eventually this is met by a large unblinking eye, at this point the pause is broken. 
EDDY That is quite a raise, one hundred and fifty on my hundred. 
HATCHET Yes . . . and is there something else you want to say? EDDY 
As you know, this puts us in an awkward position. I don't have enough to continue. 
Pause. 
CROUPIER We will have to see both your cards if no one loans EDDY the money to continue. It's a loan or we see both your cards. 
Ed gets up. We stumble with him in slow motion. He is hardly able to stand. He wobbles over to the door. Harry continues to talk over the top. 
Business is business, and I am good at making mine work. I like your dad's bar, JD's, so don't get clever or lethargic. If you can't pay in a week, a few fingers and a bar for starters. 
Ed stumbles out of the door, doubles up and vomits all over the f door. 
INT. SAMOAN JO'S - NIGHT 
Ed has made his way into the bar. All his friends have fallen asleep. One of Bacon's eyes opens to see Ed cleaning himself up. 
BACON This doesn't look good. 
The others wake on this statement. We cut between the lads and their frozen reaction. 
FREEZE SHOT OF LADS IN SHOCK 
EDDY (voice-over) I then explained the unfortunate position we were in. Harry was going to start sizing up all our fingers in a week, 'cause he knew there was no way I could raise that kind of money on my own. Harry saw it as their money on the table so it was also their debt off the table. I hate to admit it but I could have kissed the old bastard for that. If I said I wanted to settle this debt on my own it would have been a lie. 
RELEASE FREEZE SHOT OF LADS 
EDDY Listen, I wish he would let me settle it on my own. 
Tom drops his drink and rushes Eddy. 
TOM I'll kill him! 
BACON (intercepts Tom) Stop fucking around, Tom, and think. What are we going to do? 
SOAP What's all the fuss about Harry? Why don't we just boycott the payment? 
They all look at Soap like he is mad. 
INT. HATCHET HARRY'S' OFFICE - NIGHT 
BACON (voice-over) Let me tell you about Hatchet Harry. Once there was this geezer called Smithy Robinson who worked for Harry. It was rumoured that he was on the take. Harry invited Smithy round for an explanation. Smithy didn't do a very good job. Within a minute Harry lost his temper and reached for the nearest thing at hand, which happened to be a fifteen-inch black rubber cock. He then proceeded to batter poor Smithy to death with this; that was seen as a pleasant way to go . . . Hence, Hatchet Harry is a man you pay if you owe. 
EDDY I'll think of something, don't worry. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Ed, who looks like he is close to suicide, has developed a two-day stubble and his eyes have disappeared into black sockets. He stumbles along the street with a bottle of scotch poking out of a pocket. He stops outside JD's, looks at the entrance and decides not to go in. 
INT. SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY The ridiculous door-bell horn blows. 
J Who the hell's that. It's only twelve. 
WINSTON Use that cage, that's what it's there for. 
WILLIAM (off) Who is it? 
PLANK (off) Plank, open up. 
This is done without the use of the steel-caged security door. 
This weed is getting quite a reputation, you know, fellas. Gloria remains motionless in her chair. Plank waves his hand about in a sort of `how you doing' way to everyone and goes to take a seat. At the last minute, poised like he is sitting on a potty he realizes he is about to sit on this girl. 
Jesus! Never saw you there. Hello, love. Enjoying yourself? 
Gloria doesn't respond. Plank waves his hand over her face. Still no response. Plank looks around for some acknowledgement. 
Is she, er, compus? 
WINSTON (doesn't look up) What do you think? 
DOG What they like then? 
PLANK Poofs. Nothing heavy, four public school guys. Soft as shite. 
INT. JD'S BAR - DAY 
Soap is finishing off his suggestion for raising money. 
SOAP And you keep all the money' 
Pause. BACON and Tom frown at Soap. 
TOM I have heard some fucking stupid ideas in my time but yours makes Bacon's sound inspired. 
INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - DAY 
Ed fumbles with his keys at his front door. He enters his house in a sort of zombie state, takes off his jacket and opens the cupboard doors. He hangs his coat up (it promptly falls off" the hanger) and he collapses in a pile on the floor. The cupboard doors now being open, he can clearly hear next door's discussion. We track in very slowly on Ed. 
PLANK They ponce around in funny hippie clothes all day, talking bollocks. They're just good at growing weed, that's all, and business has got bigger than what they can keep up with. 
INT. JD'S BAR - DAY 
SOAP If you're so fucking clever why don't you come up with a suggestion? 
BACON I am thinking, I am thinking. 
INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - DAY 
DOG (off) Listen, they can't be all stupid if they got a container load of cash sitting in shoe boxes, a skip-load of Class A gear and you don't think there is anybody sensible involved. 
We reach the end of our track. Ed's head is on a pitiful angle in full close-up. It straightens and his dark eyes widen immediately on this news. 
INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY 
DOG 
What about security? 
PLANK There's one steel gate as you go in but they never lock it. 
DOG What do you mean, never? Well what have they got it for, then? 
PLANK I must have been there fifty times, it's never been locked; they're not suspicious. Everybody who goes there are toffs. They're all into that karma crap: `If I don't harm nobody, nobody harms me' stuff. 
DOG Is there no way they can get back to you? 
PLANK Even if they could they'd be too shit scared. They have got no muscle; they're gutless faggots. 
IN'T. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY 
Barry and Harry are talking. Harry is polishing a shotgun. It is very different in appearance to the hammer-locks. 
HATCHET 
Is Big Chris on his way? 
BARRY Should be here any minute. I think you're making a mistake, Harry. That's a lot of money for Chris to be running after. I wouldn't trust him to bring it back here. 
Hatchet's speech is laced with cut-aways of Big Chris in action, and on the ascent (with Little Chris) of Hatchet's stairs. 
INT. HATCHET HARRY'S STAIRCASE - DAY 
HATCHET (voice-over) What do you know about Chris, eh? You put Big Chris on a job and he will make sure it gets done, no matter what's in his way. His dad used to collect debts and his dad before that, and that monster of a boy will after he has gone. It seems that the Almighty himself requested them to collect debts for eternity and not to fear knocking on old Nick's door himself, if he was behind on his payment. But he has never nicked a picker in his life. Straight as an arrow and as strong as the bow that fired it. If you dropped your tenner he would search till he found ya . . . the only problem is he isn't stable, has a temper like a runaway train, and he hits twice as hard. Heaven protect anyone who touches that boy, not that the boy needs protecting. 
* Cut from completed film. 
WINSTON Hello. 
DAISY (she is upset) Winston? 
WINSTON Yeah. 
DAISY It's Daisy. 
WINSTON I know who it is. What's the problem? 
INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
The situation has been explained. There are thoughtful frowns on all foreheads. There is a pause. 
SOAP Well, what do you want us to do about it? 
EDDY Hit the fuckers. 
Pause while this is digested. 
I know it sounds a bit heavy, but it's not like you are doing anything illegal. 
BACON I don't know how you've reached that conclusion. 
EDDY They can't report they have had all their drugs and money nicked, can they? 
TOM How heavy are the fellas anyway? 
EDDY 
They don't look all that. 
SOAP 
Hitler didn't look all that. 
EDDY All right, but for Christ's sake we're in the soup and this is the silver spoon. If you can think of another way to get out, let me know. It's not like we've got all the time in the world either . . . Dig? 
Silence falls over them.] 
BACON 
I am game. 
TOM 
Me too. 
S0AP 
Oh, god! 
EDDY Well, we hit them as soon as they come back. We'll be waiting and prepared for them. 
Pause as Ed's voice drops a little. And they are armed. 
SOAP What was that, armed? What do you mean, armed? Armed with what? 
EDDY Er, bad breath, colourful language and a feather duster! . . . What do you think they will be armed with? Guns, you tit! 
SOAP Guns! You never said anything about guns. A minute ago this was the safest job in the world, now it's turning in to a bad day in Bosnia . . 
NICK Bloody hell, Tom! This is a bit heavy. This is London, not the Lebanon' Who do you think I am? 
TOM I think you're Nick the Greek. 
INT. RORY BREAKER'S OFFICE - DAY 
There's a cacophony of seventies funk and football filling the room. We meet Rory Breaker. Rory is a very well-dressed cool-looking black dude. He is in his own way sophisticated, considering what he does for a living. His help, however, are less well-informed. Rory has Nick the Greek in front of him. 
RORY Nick, I don't have anything to do with weed, normally, but if it is what he says it is, I'll give him three and a half thousand a key, that's if it is what he says it is. I don't want to see it after a sample, I don't want to touch it after a sample. I'll leave you in the capable hands of Nathan here. He will work out the details, but let me get this straight. If the milk turns out to be sour, I ain't the kind of pussy who will drink it. Know what I mean? 
INT. GARAGE UNDER THE ARCHES - DAY 
The Scousers are handing over all the shotguns from their previous job to Barry and assistant. Dean has got a complicated hair arrangement to disguise his accident with the butler. Barry raises his eyebrows at this new look. 
BARRY Is your hair supposed to look like that, then? 
Gary ignores this question. 
DEAN Next time we do a job like this we gonna want more money, or we are going back to post offices and cars. 
BARRY Where're the others? 
Barry is looking with same concern for the hammer-lock Purdeys. 
DEAN There are no others. 
BARRY Now, stop fucking around. The others, the old ones? 
DEAN I don't know what you mean. 
BARRY (dead serious) There were two old guns there; where are they? 
DEAN Not in the cabinet there wasn't. There was a couple of old hammer-lock muskets the butler was carrying; they were ours, and we sold 'em! 
BARRY Well you just better un-sell 'em, sharpish. 
DEAN They were . . . 
BARRY (interrupts) I am not fucking interested. 
Shouting. If you don't want to end up counting the fingers that you haven't got, or sharing a bed with the anti-Christ, I suggest you get those guns, quick. 
INT. BACK OF VAN - DAY 
We are facing Nick's large behind, builder's cleavage poking out of the top of his trousers. Nick is unwrapping two long implements from a sheet: the hammer-lock Purdeys. 
TOM Jesus, if I pick them up, will they stay in one piece? Where did you get them from? 
NICK I got contacts. Listen Tom, if you pointed them at me I'd shit myself or do whatever you said to do. Either way you still get the desired effect. 
TOM They look nice, I agree . . . but lacking in criminal credibility, aren't they? I might get laughed at. How much do you want for these muskets? 
NICK Seven hundred each. 
TOM What's that, a pound for every year they have been around? I know they're antiques, but I ain't paying antique prices. Pause. 
And they're a bit long, aren't they? 
NICK Sawn-offs are out, Tom; people like to have a bit mare range nowadays. 
TOM Range? I don't want to blow the arse out of this country, granted, but I don't want anybody blowing a raspberry at me either. I want to look fucking mean. 
NICK Of course you will look mean, Tom, you will look really scary. 
DOG And it better bloody not be. Once he is firmly in place, he gets the rest of us in. We'll get nasty with a couple of them, shit 'em up, scare and gag 'em. I can't see these wankers giving us a problem, but they might have a couple of tools hanging around like any cowboy. When the job is done we'll come straight back here. It's dark by then, unload and Robert's your father's brother. Everybody savvy? 
ALL TOGETHER Yup. 
DOG Right, tomorrow, eight o'clock we'll do it. Apparently these stags don't get out of bed till midday, lowest ebb and all that, and that's how I like it. 
INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - DAY 
BACON is now lit by candle. 
BACON Jesus. 
DOG (off) So no messing around tonight. We leave eight a.m., OK? 
EDDY Yes? 
BACON It's happening tomorrow morning. Get back here now. 
INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
SOAP (staggering) Where did you get those from, a museum? 
TOM Nick the Greek. 
BACON How much did you part with? 
TOM Seven hundred for the pair. 
SOAP Drachmas, I hope. I would feel safer with a chicken drumstick. They could do more harm than good. 
BACON Jesus, Tom, do they work? 
TOM I dunno, but they look nice. I rather like ' em. 
EDDY Top of the list of priorities, how nice they look. 
SOAP Ladies, if you don't mind, back to a more important issue. We've only got two real guns . . . apparently that's what they are. We find a good place to hide next door. When it sounds like the right time, we jack in the box, look nasty and stuff, cocoon them in gaffer tape, then we nick their van and swap the gear into a new van and then bring it back here. As long as we are all out of our hiding places quickly, it's the last thing they'll expect. If Tom and anyone else feels like kicking them around a bit I am sure it won't do any harm. A bit of pain never hurt any one (thinking about it) if you know what I mean . . . Also, I think knives are a good idea, you know, big fuck-off shiny knives, the ones that look like they could skin a crocodile. Knives are good because they don't make any noise, and the less noise the more we're likely to use them. That'll shit 'em up and make us look like pros. 
There is a pause as they look at Soap with suspicion. 
TOM Is there something we should know about you, Soap? 
BACON I am not sure what's more worrying, the job or your past. 
INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - MORNING 
Ed and Bacon, etc, are all mounted up on top of one another looking out a crack in the curtain. They are observing Dog's party en route to work. They are dressed as kebab shop assistants. 
SOAP Where the fuck are they going? To butcher a sheep? I thought this was a robbery. 
EDDY Where did they get those outfits from? Haven't we got some like that, Tom? 
TOM Well, not exactly like that. 
INT. DOG'S HOUSE (VAN) - MORNING 
Dog and troop load up. 
INT. SLDANES' SITTING ROOM - MORNING 
Cut to Sloanes. They are up and unusually awake. Today is the day to move the money so they are comparatively alert. There is lots of activity. 
WINSTON You fucking jelly-heads, move it. You have been up for two hours, you should have got somewhere by now. The gear and the money has got to be out of here before twelve. 
Then devastation slaps him hard. 
Keep the gates locked now, do you? 
J Sorry, got to do business like this now; can't be too careful these days. 
PLANK I know. (Suddenly turning very nasty whispering.) Now shut it. You say a fucking word the right knee goes, another word then your left. 
J (confused and believing it's a joke, until he sees the gun.) What are you doing, Plank? 
PLANK What do you think I am doing? Hold on. What are you doing? Unlock that gate. Oi! I said unlock that fucking gate. 
J has found it all too much and has passed out with fear, collapsing on the floor in an awkward contorted position. Plank is desperately trying to find the right key. Things are not going as well as planned. Dog, in the meantime, has decided it's time to start the show 
EXT. SLOANES' STAIRS - DAY 
DOG Go! Go! Go! Fucking run, you two. 
They all go charging into the open door only to slam straight into Plank. The keys go flying out of Plank's hands and through the cage. Plank cries with frustration, reaching out with his hand to retrieve them. Dog, finding the gate locked, is none too happy They are also still exposed to the eyes of the world due to the lack of space between the outside door and the inside cage. 
INT. SLOANES' CAGE - DAY 
DOG (mesmerized} The fucking gate's shut, you prick. 
PLANK Just hold on, I got the keys. 
Having clawed them back with the end of his shotgun. 
DOG (seeing an unconscious man at his feet) What the fuck did you do to Fauntleroy? 
PLANK (fumbling and panicking) I didn't touch him, he just passed out. 
INT. SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY 
WINSTON J, what's going on out there? (Realising) Get the rifle out, Charles. We're being fucked. 
INT. SLOANES' FRONT DOOR - DAY 
DOG Get the sodding gate open now, Plank. 
Plank is busy fumbling about, not really getting anywhere because of the pressure being applied. 
PLANK (trying to convince himself, as much as Dog) It must be this one. 
DOG Just give me the keys. 
The gun with which Plank has been entrusted is pointing straight at Dog's groin. 
Point your gun in there, dick, not at me. 
Mick has unwrapped his gun from his case. Dog turns and looks amazed at the size of the weapon. 
What the fuck is that? 
MICK It's a bren gun. 
DOG You could have brought something a bit more fucking practical, couldn't ya? 
Pop! We hear the sound of an air gun pellet hitting the bars. 
PLANK (trying to salvage some credibility) Don't you stags move or I'll kill the lot of ya. 
DOG (amazed by this stupidity) Who are you going to kill Plank? There's no one there. 
DOG OK, open the gate. 
No sooner said than done. Dog hits one straight on Winston's forehead with the butt of his gun and drags him to the stairs. 97 
INT. SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY DOG 
Up boy, up, up. 
They reach the top of the stairs. 
Tie 'em up John and, Plank, you come with me. Where's the money? 
PLANK There, in those shoe boxes. 
Dog opens them. There is nothing in them. If looks could kill Plank would be pushing up daisies. 
DOG (gun to the head of Winston) Where? 
WINSTON Out the back. 
DOG And the weed? 
WINSTON Out the back. 
MICK Point. 
WINSTON With what? 
MICK Your hands, now! 
WINSTON I can't, I am tied up. 
MICK Well, well, shake your head or something. 
DOG All right Plank, get Paul out of the van. 
This is done on a walky talky. 
INT. SLOANES' BACK ROOM - DAY 
The door opens. Willie is waiting behind it armed with a machete. He turns to his opponent and, eyes shut for Dutch courage, hacks straight into Mick's arm. Mick's machine gun goes off and William loses a finger as he tries to push the barrel to the side. He starts screaming uncontrollably 
DOG (to Plank) Give us your knife. 
Dog is going to put an end to this screaming and is making his way to its source. William is silenced through fear of the approaching Dog and slumps on the floor in a silenced wreck, holding a bleeding hand. 
(the point of the blade resting on William's throat) Enough! Mick, how you doing? 
MICK How do you think I am doing? He has fucking nearly chopped my arm off. 
Dog's attention is diverted as he sees a table full of cash, neatly packed and stacked. 
PAUL (in doorway visibly shocked Gordon Bennett! What's been going on in here? 
DOG Shut up, you idiot. You got the bags? Can you get it in? 
PAUL There's a lot here, all right. I don't think we will be able to get this all in the van. 
DOG Bollocks, you'll get it in even if you have to do two trips. 
EXT. SLOANES' HOUSE - DAY 
A traffic warden appears as Paul goes outside to load up. 
INT. DOG'S VAN - DAY 
Dog turns to admire a full van. 
TRAFFIC WARDEN You won't get away with it. 
Dog turns around and sees the tragic warden. 
DOG Paul, what's that? 
PAUL That's a traffic warden. 
DOG (looking straight at Paul) What's he doing in the van? 
Dog and the others look at the tragic warden mercilessly 
PAUL He was about to call the cozzers. 
Paul hits him again, sending him back into unconsciousness. 
DOG We will deal with him later. 
EXT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY Tom is on the mobile phone. 
TOM They're here. 
INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY 
Dog opens his door, enters the front room, dumps his two bags down and is met by a bleeding Plank (who is grunted at) and John, who is rubbing his chest. Dog sighs and turns to get more bags. The action starts. It's hard to tell who is who because of the balaclavas. The lads jump out of their positions. 
BACON Down, down, get fucking down now' 
This is like d??vu. There is no response as the three of them seem not to believe what's going on. BACON hits Dog with the butt of his gun, establishing who's boss. Dog does down with a thud. Plank hits the floor immediately. 
EXT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY 
Paul enters, sees trouble, drops his bags and prepares to run. He is met by Tom who greets him with a smash round the kneecaps with a lead pipe. This has more than the desired effect and Paul has to be dragged in screaming by Tom. It all went rather smoothly 
EDDY Tie 'em up, tape 'em up, face and mouth. Keys, I want the keys. 
DOG I'll find you. 
BACON Of course you will, sweetheart. This one, search this one. Ed finds the keys without any trouble. 
EDDY I'll meet you in the van when you have finished with handsome there. 
INT. DOG'S VAN - DAY 
There is silence. For a few seconds all we can hear is the noise of their breathing. 
TOM Well Jesus, that wasn't so bad, was it? 
SOAP When the bottle in my arse has contracted I'll let you know. 
EDDY Bacon, see what we got. 
BACON Let's have a butcher's. Jesus, there's lots of everything. We've got god knows how much of this stinking weed; we've got a shit load of cash; and we've got a . . . traffic warden. 
TOM A what? 
BACON A traffic warden. Look, what's this? 
He holds up the hat. 
NATHAN Fuck you funny man, you go first. 
INT. SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - NIGHT 
NATHAN Shit! 
Winston is tied up and squirming. 
WINSTON For Christ's sake, get us out. 
INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
EDDY Well, not a bad day's work. That takes care of Harry. 
Pushing a massive pile of notes to one side. 
SOAP What's left over?' 
TOM Hold on, give us half a chance to count it. 
SOAP What about all the gear? 
BACON 'Ere, have a pull of this. 
Passes Ed the joint. 
EDDY I don't want that horrible shit. Give it to Soap. Can we just lock up and get drunk now, please? 
INT. RORY BREAKER'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
We see Winston, Nathan and the torso of Lenny, standing in front of Rory Like naughty schoolchildren. 
WINSTON We had the gates up but they stuck a shotgun through. Poor bloody J got shot; it was a right mess. 
The gravity and reality dawns on Rory. 
RORY It will cost you more than your life's worth if you jest with me. 
LENNY Some girl took one of 'em out, but he's a bit of a mess. 
WINSTON (proudly j We shot one of them in the throat. 
RORY What do you want, a fucking medal? I'll shoot you in the fucking throat if I don't get the gear back. 
He pauses, rubs his forehead and continues, slightly calmer. You shot the one that's in there now? 
WINSTON 
No, another one. 
RORY This is more like it. So where's he? 
WINSTON They took him with them; he was still alive. 
RORY Well, what did you shoot him with, an air gun? 
There is an embarrassed pause and a look of `how did you know?' Rory doesn't need an answer and slaps his forehead. 
WINSTON We grow weed, we're not mercenaries. 
RORY 
You don't say. 
PLANK Dog, we have been up all night. It's no one round here! We have had them all against the wall. 
JOHN If it was a toe rag from the area we would know. 
Dog starts slapping his troops round their heads. 
DOG You wouldn't know if it was the next-door fucking neighbours, you prick! You find 'em, you hear? And find 'em quick! Now get out and start looking! Out! Out! 
Dog Loses his temper and throws Plank across the room. Plank's head breaks effortlessIy through the wall. 
INT. ED AND BACON'S CUPBOARD - MORNING 
A dust-covered Plank blinks in confusion as he looks on to a heap of recording equipment. 
INT. JD'S BAR - DAY 
Recovering from the night before. 
BACON Scarface, I have watched Scarface. You want to know how to do a drug deal, you watch Scarface! 
EDDY That inspires confidence, that does. 
TOM This guy Rory Breaker can afford to do the deal at the price we are selling. It's not worth him giving us trouble; he knows we would be a pain in the arse, and who wants a pain in the arse? 
SOAP I would take a pain in the arse for half a million. 
TOM You would take a pain ? the arse full stop. 
SOAP Tom, the fatter you get, the sadder you get. 
EDDY Jesus, would you two stop flirting for one minute . . . After we pay Hatchet, this deal puts us up near enough two hundred grand each. Not bad for a day's work, I think you will agree. 
INT. SPLTT SCREEN. NICK'S HOUSE - DAY 
A seventies-style split screen. A very shaky Nick answers his cartoon telephone. 
NICK Yeah? 
INT. DEAN'S HOUSE - DAY 
DEAN That's no way to answer the phone. 
NICK Is that you, Dean? 
DEAN Sure is. 
NICK What can I do for you? 
DEAN You know those shotguns I sold ya, well I need 'em back. 
NICK Not likely I am afraid; I don't think I'll be seeing them again. 
DEAN I got the money to pay for 'em. 
NICK I am sure you do, but I don't think you understand; I am not going to see them or the guns again. 
Gary looks at Dean. 
DEAN If we can't get 'em, we can't get 'em. 
INT. SPLIT SCREEN. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY. Barry is on his mobile, moments later. 
BARRY You fucking well have to get 'em! 
The Scousers watch Big Chris walk out of Hatchet's empty-handed 
DEAN We gotta get those guns. 
GARY This is dangerous shit, Dean; we don't even know who lives in there. 
DEAN Listen, I don't care who lives in there; all as I know it's got to be preferable to death by Hatchet. 
GARY Furry muff, let's go. 
EXT. ED'S CAR (STATIC) - DAY 
SOAP I hope this is the right move. 
EDDY It's either that, my old boy's place, and we lose a digit daily. I am going to call him. 
BACON As if he'll care. 
EDDY He'll care all right. That was going to be his money. Whether he cares about us is different. Pass your phone. 
BACON Think about what you're going to say, Ed; we are on thin ice. 
INT. HATCHET HARRY'S STAIRCASE - DAY 
The two Scousers with guns in hand creep their way up the stairs. There's only one door in front of them. Dean gets ready to kick it open. Gary leans against the wall and delivers a Professionals-style kick. 
INT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY 
Harry is in his offtce playing with his guns. The phone rings. 
HATCHET That you, boy? 
EDDY (on phone) It's Ed, if that's what you mean. 
HATCHET It's pay day, ain't it? 
EDDY (on phone) I wanted to talk to you about that. 
HATCHET I bet you did. I have got half a million nicker sitting in front of me, which means that some poor sod doesn't. You must have upset a few people, boy . . . but that isn't really my concern, is it? But what does concern me is the guns you had. I want to talk to you about that. Get your arse over here now, and I do mean now! 
INT. ED'S CAR - DAY 
Ed puts the phone down after a pause. His state of shock is obvious to the rest of the lads. 
BACON Well? 
EDDY Well what? 
TOM (impatiently) Well, what did he say? 
EDDY He said he thinks we have paid him, and he wants to talk about those guns . . . now. 
SOAP You what? What are you on about? 
EDDY Listen, if he has the guns he might have the money . . . I think we should go and see him. 
BACON I think you're a sandwich short of a picnic, mate; you want to start making sense. 
INT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY 
We cut to a time Lapse. Hatchet puts down the phone while resting his bum on the front of his desk. He is ecstatic with the guns. He loads and plays with them, aiming at imaginary moving birds. 
The door is suddenly kicked wide open and, lo and behold, there is a Scouser standing in the door. Dean has a thousand ugly thoughts flying through his troubled mind, most of which are based an regretting the decision to kick this door in: `shit, what the hell is that, and why is he holding a shotgun'. Hatchet realizes that the man standing in the doorway (who is posed like De Niro in the poster of Taxi Driver, holding a gun in each hand) has nor come to deliver the mail. The pair are blissfully unaware that employee has met employer. Hatchet Harry has effectively contracted his own demise. The pause is eventually shattered by reality There is a rush to pull their individual triggers. There is a race between the two bullets to reach their prospective targets. Both barrels are emptied into Dean's chest. The Scourer is airborne by the sheer power of the cartridges. One of Dean's bullets,finds its way into Harry's shoulder. Gary can do nothing to stop this atrocity. He watches helplessly as his pal flies clean past him. 
