In the distance, a roller coaster in Coney Island, silhouetted against the afternoon sky. 
"Little Odessa", New York - 1984 
The camera travels off the coaster to a restaurant, apartment above it. 
YURI (V.O.) We congregated in New York's Brighton Beach because of its similarity to the Crimean Sea.  I've always thought it's appropriate we moved next door to the circus. 
INT.  "CRIMEAN RESTAURANT" - LITTLE ODESSA.  DAY. 
A typical Jewish establishment with all its paraphernalia - menorah on the mantle, etc.  The family sits in a small dining room attached to the restaurant.  ANATOLY reads the Torah as he waits for dinner with YURI and VITALY. 
YURI (V.O.) I had no idea my father would take his assumed identity so much to heart.  I guess he just stayed in character. 
YURI, older, as we now know him, studies school work.  Long-haired VITALY watches "Band Aid" on TV. 
IRINA puts a plate of mussels in front of Anatoly. 
ANATOLY (glaring at the plate, incredulous) How many times--I can't eat shellfish.  It's "treyf". 
IRINA You're not Jewish. 
ANATOLY I like it. (picking up his felt fedora) I like the hat - to remind us there's something above us.  I like that. 
Anatoly dons his hat. 
ANATOLY (cont'd) I'm going to temple. 
IRINA You're not going to temple.  You go to temple more than the rabbi! 
Vitaly begins eating his father's plate of mussels.  Yuri watches his father exit. 
YURI (V.O.) I was suffering an identity crisis of my own. 
We focus on orientation booklets from a careers fair.  Yuri shuffles between the eagle of the CIA and the dove of the U.N. 
YURI (V.O.) My gift for languages made me highly sought after.  The C.I.A. and U.N. were both heavily recruiting Russian immigrants. 
Yuri settles on the dove. 
EXT.  UNITED NATIONS.  DAY. 
The idealistic YURI, ill-fitting suit, full of optimism, approaches the United Nations Building. 
YURI (V.O.) Naturally, I went with the U.N.  They were paying more. 
He strides past Luxembourg's gift to the U.N. - a sculpture of a gun with its barrel tied in a knot.  Never gives it a look. 
He is greeted at the entrance by an attractive female U.N. Official, VIVIAN CARLISLE.  She likes what she sees. 
INT.  ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIER.  DAY. 
The blue helmeted YURI is seated in a white U.N. armored personnel carrier, the background behind him morphs from one Third World location to another: Third World desert to Third World rainforest to Third World slum. 
YURI (V.O.) The fastest way to find out you can't change the world is to actually go there. 
EXT.  NRFL REBEL HEADQUARTERS - NORTHERN LIBERIA.  DAY. 
Poolside at a recently-captured Southern-style colonial mansion, a long way from Georgia. 
Gbamga, Liberia - 1985 
YURI (V.O.) West Africa's Liberia, or "land of the free", was originally established in the 1800's as a homeland for freed American negroes.  It's been enslaved by one dictator or another ever since.  They even copied their masters' Southern architecture. 
A tatty pile of weapons - some from World War II - sits in front of a long negotiating table. 
YURI, blue beret, observes the CHIEF U.N. ENVOY at the table opposite warlord ANDRE BAPTISTE, leader of the National Revolutionary Front of Liberia (NRFL). 
Baptiste, 40's, is an imposing figure.  In full uniform despite the heat, he wears a jacket one size too small as if he cannot admit his extra few pounds.  His THIRD WIFE stands next to him, wiping the sweat from his brow like an intermittent windscreen wiper. 
YURI (V.O.) It was my first meeting with the American- educated Andre Roosevelt Baptiste.  While the warning signs were all there, no one had any idea what a monster he would eventually become.  I certainly didn't think he would become my friend. 
Baptiste has a U.N. document in front of him, awaiting his signature, clearly enjoying his moment in the sun. 
U.N. ENVOY (referring to the meager pile of weapons) --With all due respect, Mr. Baptiste, you don't seriously expect us to believe that this represents your entire arsenal. 
Baptiste shrugs. 
U.N. ENVOY (cont'd) This is making a nonsense of the embargo ratified by all five permanent members of the Security Council.  The escalation in the build up of arms jeopardizes not only order in the region but ultimately world order. 
Baptiste smiles. 
BAPTISTE (playing to the gallery) --World order?  You say we jeopardize world order? 
Baptiste's Third Wife wipes his brow. 
BAPTISTE (cant'd) Your idea of world order is when you're giving the orders to the world. 
The Envoy has no response. 
Baptiste rises from the table, leaving the unsigned document sitting there. 
YURI remains at the verandah, exchanges a smile with a YOUNG PROSTITUTE, at least two years from legal. 
He's tempted.  He knocks back his drink.  He approaches the girl - presses a few bills into her hand.  She picks up her purse, makes to leave with him but he motions her to stay. 
MONROVIAN GIRL (referring to the money) What's this? 
YURI (explaining the tip) For the smile. 
Yuri exits alone.  The Liberian Man, across the street, follows. 
EXT.  DOWNTOWN MONROVIA - STREET.  NIGHT. 
YURI walks down a poorly-lit sidestreet.  He feels something in his back - stops abruptly.  His hand reflexively goes to his holster. Empty. 
He turns.  The young LIBERIAN MAN is holding him up with his own gun. 
YURI (mixing English and French) Fuck, no, no, no, no--fuck, no.  Money?  You want money? (going through his pockets, he starts pulling out loose bills) Fuck, no.  Don't shoot.  Don't shoot me. Fuck.  U.S. dollars. (referring to the face on a five dollar bill) President Lincoln. 
The Liberian puts his finger to his lips to hush Yuri. 
The Liberian appears more interested in the gun than the hold-up. 
LIBERIAN MAN (in flawless English) Glock .45. 
The Liberian produces a crisp U.S. twenty dollar bill of his own, offers it to Yuri. 
LIBERIAN MAN (cont'd) (referring to the face on a twenty dollar bill) Jackson. 
YURI What? 
Yuri stares at the money, bewildered. 
LIBERIAN MAN President Jackson. 
He shakes his head. 
YURI No. 
LIBERIAN MAN (misinterpreting him) You are driving a hard bargain. 
He hands Yuri a second twenty. 
YURI (flabbergasted) No, keep it.  Keep the money.  Keep the gun. 
LIBERIAN MAN (offended) What do you take me for - a thief? 
The Liberian stuffs the money in the pocket of the bewildered Yuri. 
LIBERIAN MAN Demand and supply. (referring to the gun) There is more I am thinking where this comes from. 
YURI (incredulous) You want more Glocks? 
LIBERIAN MAN And the Heckler & Koch G-3 assault rifle. 
YURI What makes you think I'll do that? 
LIBERIAN MAN (quizzical) I will come back and shoot you with the Glock. (checking the magazine, referring to the bullets) By the way, do you have the hollow point cartridges? 
Yuri stares at the man. 
YURI (facetious, nodding to the gun) You got any color preference for that? 
LIBERIAN MAN (missing the sarcasm, regarding the gun) Kelly green. (meeting Yuri's eye) I will find you. 
The Liberian walks away, still admiring his new weapon.  Yuri stares after him. 
YURI (V.O.) He'd come to the right place - peacekeepers are armed to the teeth.  And nothing but premium product.  The U.N. mostly buys from Switzerland - where else? 
INT.  CAPTAIN CARLISLE'S PRIVATE QUARTERS.  NIGHT. 
CLOSE ON two blue helmets lying beside each other. 
YURI and CAPTAIN VIVIAN CARLISLE are under the mosquito netting of a bed in her private quarters - trying to get each other out of their respective clothes as fast as possible - mouths and hands everywhere. 
Even in the heat of the moment, VIVIAN is unable to completely let go of her work. 
VIVIAN (between heavy breaths) What are we doing here, Yuri? 
YURI (kissing her nipple) Whatever you want. 
VIVIAN You know what I mean.  Here, in this country.  Are we doing any good? 
YURI (finally telling her what she wants to hear) Would nothing be better? 
Satisfied with the answer, she completely gives in to the throes of passion - pulls him to her. 
LATER 
VIVIAN, satiated, dozes amongst the rumpled sheets, backside exposed. 
YURI uses the opportunity to take an impression of the key attached to her belt. 
CLOSE ON THE UNDERCARRIAGE OF A TWA 747, TAKING OFF FROM JFK. 
INT.  CONVENTION CENTER - PARIS.  DAY. 
A platoon of attractive YOUNG WOMEN in camouflage mini-dresses show off the latest sniper rifles and grenade launchers. 
An ASIAN BUSINESSMAN pitches hardware to YURI.  VITALY is more interested in the girls. 
ASIAN BUSINESSMAN (brochure in hand) --I can get you the shoulder-fired SA-7 surface-to-air missiles.  The older Chinese model.  Not so effective against modern military aircraft but deadly if used against a commercial airliner.  I'm giving them away at eight-fifty. 
Yuri notices that his vendor's attention has wandered to a suave older gentleman, SIMEON ZAHAROFF, surrounded by eager VENDORS of all nationalities.  The Asian man joins the enthusiastic throng. 
YURI (V.O.) It was the eighties and the Cold War was far from thawed.  Most of the deals were government-to-government.  There were some go- betweens - freelancers - but it was a mostly private club with a lifetime club president. 
Yuri drags Vitaly away from the sales girls. 
YURI That's him.  The guy Eli told me about.  Simeon Zaharoff.  Brokered deals in the Iran/Iraq war - both sides, sold missiles to Argentina in the Falklands.  Hets a fucking legend.  I've got to talk to him. 
Yuri pushes past Zaharoff's entourage. 
YURI Simeon!  Simeon! 
A BODYGUARD tries to step between Yuri and Zaharoff. 
VITALY (stepping between the bodyguard and Yuri) They're talking. 
Zaharoff, irritated, nonetheless humors Yuri. 
SIMEON May I help you? 
YURI A mutual friend, Eli Kurtzman from Brighton Beach Import-Export said to contact you.  I have a business proposal.  Perhaps we can discuss it - over a drink. 
Simeon looks him up and down. 
SIMEON You're in the wrong place my young friend. This is no place for amateurs. 
Simeon walks away without another word.  Vitaly shrugs.  Yuri fumes. 
YURI (under his breath in Ukrainian) Yob tvayu mat.  (Subtitled - Motherfucker.) 
Yuri watches Simeon go, surrounded by flunkies. 
YURI (V.O.) Curious how you always revert to your native tongue in moments of extreme anger... 
INT.  HOTEL ROOM - PARIS.  NIGHT 
Camouflage minidress and beret are now discarded on the floor - a contrast to the blue helmet seen earlier. 
YURI (V.O.) ...and ecstacy. 
YURI and VITALY are getting it on with two SALES GIRLS. 
We pan from one couple in the living room, Vitaly, to the one in the bedroom, Yuri. 
We focus on Yuri, in the midst of the act - hears his brother's moans in Ukrainian. 
VITALY (O.C.) Boh...Boh.  Oh, Boh! (Subtitle:  God...God. Oh, God!) 
Yuri smiles at Vitaly's cries.  Something catches Yuri's eye on TV. 
CLOSE UP OF A TV SCREEN 
showing images of the aftermath of the suicide bombing at the U.S. barracks in Lebanon. 
YURI (V.O.) Vitaly and I found our niche in under-the- counter gunrunning - regimes suffering under sanctions. 
EXT.  STREET - BEIRUT, LEBANON.  DAY. 
A street lined with shelled buildings. 
Beirut, Lebanon - 1986 
Through one of the shell holes, we glimpse YURI and VITALY with a LEBANESE CUSTOMER. 
YURI (V.O.) The job wasn't so different trom the U.N.  I was just as neutral working for the ununited nations.  An equal opportunity "merchant of death", I supplied every army but the Salvation Army. 
We track with them, only getting occasional glimpses through the holes as they make their way through the war-torn streets of Lebanon. 
YURI (V.O.) We got our start in Lebanon after the suicide bombing. 
They enter a building carrying a crude rendering of a Coke sign - "Taste Life."  The model drinking the Coke is Ava Cordova. 
INT.  BEIRUT WAREHOUSE.  DAY. 
Inside the warehouse is a ten foot high, unruly pile of junked weapons. 
YURI (V.O.) When the United States leaves a war zone, they generally don't take their munitions. It costs more to bring it back than buy new stock. 
YURI and VITALY usher the CUSTOMER over to an industrial scale loaded with assorted weapons. 
YURI I sell by the kilo. 
The town is deserted.  YURI and VITALY are confused as they prepare to unload an arms consignment from a truck. 
YURI (V.O.) We had our set-backs.  It's not called gunrunning for nothing. 
Up the street, a celebration is taking place - a band, balloons, confetti, dancing. 
Finally, a Congolese man, JOHN "CANNIBAL" NGAWE, appears at the warehouse. 
The conversation is in French. 
YURI (from the boat) Cannibal, what's going on? 
CANNIBAL Cease fire, man.  Cease fire.  It's over. 
YURI What?!  What do you mean it's over? 
CANNIBAL Truce.  We're friends, man. 
YURI (looking to his unopened crates, more and more agitated) Friends?!  You can't be fucking friends. Last week I spoke to you on the phone.  You said you would not rest until every last rebel was dead.  You called them vermin. You said would piss in their mouths, you said you would exterminate them like cockroaches.  Just last week, you said this! 
CANNIBAL (shrug) That was last week, man. 
Cannibal starts to walk away. 
YURI Cannibal, don't you fucking walk away from me! 
Cannibal flashes Yuri a peace sign. 
CANNIBAL Peace, man! 
YURI Fuck you, Cannibal!! 
Yuri looks to Vitaly. 
VITALY (referring to the truck) Maybe we can offload it - the Balkans. 
YURI (nodding in agreement) At least when they say they're going to have a war, they keep their word. 
EXT.  NORTHERN AFGHANISTAN.  DAY. 
YURI and VITALY stand at a checkpoint in the rugged mountains.  Guns and ammunition are strapped to donkeys tended by MUJAHIDEEN FIGHTERS.  An AFGHANI OFFICIAL inspects the cargo. 
YURI (V.O.) I even shipped cargo to Afghanistan when they were still fighting fellow Russians. But I never sold to Osama bin Laden.  Not for any moral grounds.  Back then he was always bouncing checks. 
AFGHANI OFFICIAL I hope you're not thinking of selling these, Mr. Orlov. 
YURI (shakes his head) Personal use. 
AFGHANI OFFICIAL There's a hundred thousand bullets here. 
YURI I'm kind of trigger happy. 
Vitaly hands the Official his documentation - clipped to it, a thick wad of bills. 
The Afghani Official smiles.  He returns to his mud-brick border station beside the confiscated merchandise. 
Yuri focuses on a swimsuit calendar hanging on the mud wall - Miss May is AVA CORDOVA. 
YURI (V.O.) And everywhere I went, Ava Cordova kept following me around.  We were as international as each other. 
EXT.  FREIGHTER SHIP.  DAY. 
We tilt up from the water to find YURI on the deck of a freighter, ploughing the ballpoint blue seas off the coast of Colombia. 
North of Barranquilla, Colombia - 1989 
YURI (V.O.) Operations like mine provided the only way for certain regimes to conduct a respectable war. 
VITALY holds onto a railing trying to stave off seasickness, not helped by standing downwind from Yuri's cigarette smoke. 
YURI (V.O.) The freighter I was standing on carried 113 tons of weapons and ammunition for delivery to one of the poorest nations in Latin America in direct contravention of half a dozen international arms embargoes. 
Yuri makes a call on his cell phone. 
YURI (V.O.) To keep authorities in the dark, I often spoke in code.  Rocket launchers were "mothers", the rockets "children".  Assault rifles were "apples".  The AK-47 was "the Angel King". 
YURI (into phone) The Angel King will arrive tomorrow...Hallelujah to you too. 
Yuri hangs up.  His phone rings with an incoming call. 
YURI (cont'd) (into phone) Yes?...Slow the fuck down--what do you mean, tipped off?  They know where we are?!  Where are they?! 
Yuri grabs a pair of binoculars.  On the horizon, a fast-approaching speed boat - INTERPOL AGENTS visible on the racer's deck. 
YURI (cont'd) (hanging up) Forget it. 
VITALY and the CAPTAIN, also spying the Customs Boat, join Yuri at the railing. 
CAPTAIN Do we run? 
VITALY We have to get out of here. 
EXT.  DECK - FREIGHTER.  DAY. 
Yuri spies a life ring emblazoned with the word "KRISTOL".  He flips it around as Valentine and the other agents board. 
Valentine strides past Yuri to a container, nods to an agent to open it.  The large metal door opens to reveal a large container full of grain - grain spilling onto the deck. 
Valentine is about to plunge his hand into the grain when a mobile phone rings. 
A CREWMAN calls to Valentine from the bridge of the Interpol boat. 
AGENT (referring to the phone) Sir, sighting of the Kristol due north. 
Valentine hesitates, returns to the ladder. 
As the agents go, they fail to see the pile of grain shift in the container exposing a crate of assault rifles hidden there. 
EXT.  RAILING - FREIGHTER.  DAY. 
Yuri and Vitaly watch the Interpol boat leap away. 
On the FREIGHTER, we focus on the terrified PAINTER standing beside Yuri - a pool of urine appears from the trouser leg. 
Yuri pretends not to notice, slaps the Painter on the back. 
YURI Nice job. 
CLOSE ON the word, "KONO".  From the "O", a paint drop runs down the stern. 
EXT.  BARRANQUILLA HARBOR, COLOMBIA.  DAY. 
YURI and VITALY supervise the unloading of the freighter from the dockside. 
They are alerted by the sound of a battle raging somewhere on the outskirts of the docks. 
A Jeep, full to overflowing with heavily-armed NARCO-GUERRILLAS suddenly appears at the far end of the dock and speeds towards them. 
A military vehicle full of COLOMBIAN SOLDIERS chases the Guerrillas several hundred yards behind. 
The Jeep full of Guerrillas screeches to a stop by the freighter. The NARC LEADER grabs a box of unloaded ammunition. 
YURI (in Spanish) Hey, pay before you play. 
NARC LEADER (in Spanish) You're late. 
The Leader smashes the box on the concrete - bullets spilling everywhere. 
VITALY Hey, fuck you! 
NARC LEADER (jamming his handgun in Vitaly's eye socket) Fuck you! 
Yuri tries to play peacemaker. 
YURI (reasoning with the Narc Leader) No, you don't fuck him-- 
The Narc Leader turns and shoots Yuri in the side. 
Yuri shudders with the impact.  The enraged Vitaly lunges towards the Leader but Yuri, despite his wound, holds him back. 
YURI (cont'd) No, Vit.  No. (to the Leader, referring to the bullets) Help yourselves.  Free sample. 
Vitaly nurses Yuri to the ground. 
The GUERRILLAS ignore them, frantically re-load just in time, immediately start shooting at the approaching government vehicle. 
The government vehicle throws a vicious 180, almost toppling over. 
The Guerillas, now back in business, take off after the government troops. 
Yuri lies on the dock, genuinely surprised by the sight of his own blood. 
YURI (V.O.) The first and most important rule of gunrunning is never get shot with your own merchandise. 
INT.  WAREHOUSE - BARRANQUILLA, COLOMBIA.  DAY. 
YURI, now heavily bandaged around the waist, and VITALY keep a watchful eye as the NARC LEADER inspects crates of machine guns and other ammunition. 
YURI (V.O.) The second rule is always ensure you have a foolproof way to get paid.  Credit card, check, cash.  Preferably in advance, ideally to an off-shore account.  It's why I choose my customers so carefully.  Say what you like about warlords and dictators, they tend to have a highly developed sense of order. They always pay their bills on time. 
The Narc Leader nods his approval. 
NARC LEADER (referring to Yuri's wound) I apologize for earlier. 
YURI (slight wince) I understand. 
WORKERS start loading the crates into a truck.  The Narc Leader hands Yuri the suitcase. 
NARC LEADER It's all there. 
Yuri snaps open the suitcase - inside six kilos of cocaine. 
YURI What is this? 
Vitaly doesn't budge. 
YURI (cont'd) I promised our parents. 
VITALY (desperate eyes) Please. 
YURI Vitaly, you're going to have a good time. This is a top place.  Two Ford models checked in last week and that cute weather girl's been here since July. 
VITALY Please. 
Yuri relents, pours a gram onto the dashboard.  Vitaly snorts it off the dash. 
VITALY (as he wipes his nose) You're a good brother. 
Vitaly kisses Yuri. 
Two ORDERLIES open the car door, escort Vitaly away. 
Yuri watches his brother in the rearview mirror - shepherded up the path. 
YURI (V.O.) I never understood what separated the recreational drug user from the habitual, the functional addict from the dysfunctional.  But for the grace of God, it could have been me snorting lines as long as the Belt Parkway. 
INT.  CATHOLIC CHURCH - BRIGHTON BEACH.  DAY. 
IRINA lights a candle in front of the Virgin Mary. 
YURI (V.O.) Vitaly never got completely clean despite the prayers of my mother... 
INT.  SYNAGOGUE - BRIGHTON BEACH.  DAY. 
ANATOLY prays in front of the menorah. 
YURI (V.O.) ...and father.  In fact, my younger brother was the only reason my father ever had to question his new religion. 
INT.  AIR MAROC JETLINER.  DAY. 
An EXECUTIVE sits in his Business Class seat.  On the tray table in front of him, calculator and spreadsheets. 
YURI (V.O.) After Colombia I became a one-man-operation. A sole proprietor as you say on your tax return - that is if you're foolish enough to fill one out. 
He exchanges a collegial smile with YURI who has similar entrepreneurial paraphernalia in front of him. 
YURI (V.O.) By then I'd mastered my craft.  Selling arms is not so different to selling vacuum cleaners.  You advertise, pound the pavement, take orders. 
The businessman's smile dissolves when he catches a glance at the brochure lying next to Yuri's "Day-Runner" - glossy photos of GRENADE LAUNCHERS. 
A MONTAGE OF SCENES - ILLUSTRATING THE ANATOMY OF AN ARMS DEAL. 
It takes place in an unidentified country in North Africa. 
YURI (V.O.) Of course, a good arms dealer also has to be a political scientist.  I go by a seven-step approach. 
YURI gets off a plane. 
YURI (V.O.) One: identity a government and an opposition where the opposition is ignored. 
YURI immediately picks up a newspaper, eager for the latest news. 
YURI (V.O.) Two: Wait for a radical group to break away from the opposition. 
YURI is buoyed by the front page news, over-tips the NEWSPAPER SELLER. 
YURI (V.O.) Three: Immediately approach the radical group and offer them arms. 
YURI meets a group of REVOLUTIONARIES in a backstreet bar, shows them an arms catalogue. 
YURI (V.O.) Four: Whether they buy or not, inform the government that the radical group approached you and offer the government arms. 
YURI meets a GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL in the parliament buildings, shows him the same catalogue. 
YURI (V.O.) Five: Whether they buy or not, re-approach the radical group and offer them more arms but now at a higher price.  Increasing tension is a means of generating demand and the ideal situation is to sell to both sides. 
YURI meets the REVOLUTIONARIES a second time in the same bar - this time they are more enthusiastic and Yuri has his calculator out. 
YURI (V.O.) Six: If they start shooting at each other, the escalation is underway. 
YURI, now accompanied by bodyguards, is escorted into the government buildings, where he's given a fat envelope. 
Back at the bar, YURI is given an even fatter envelope. 
YURI (V.O.) They are consuming small arms and ammunition and the cash register is well and truly ringing. 
YURI stands at his hotel window, sneaking a look through grimy venetian blinds.  A street battle is taking place. 
However, in Yuri's mind the sound of the gunshots is gradually replaced by the sound ot a cash register.  Each time a gun is fired, the register rings. 
Yuri shuts the window. 
YURI (V.O.) Seven: Don't forget that the success of a radical group in one country can inspire a radical group in a neighboring country. 
Yuri boards a plane, taking off for a new conflict zone. 
ANATOLY Major General.  He got promoted.  Two of his rivals were also there that day.  I told you - he's the luckiest man alive. 
YURI He may be luckier than you think. 
Yuri goes to pour himself a drink.  Anatoly grabs his son's hand the way he did many years earlier. 
ANATOLY (lowering his voice) We're not fools, Yuri.  What's between you and your wife is your own business but I don't think you're going to Odessa to open a McDonald's. (meeting his son's eye) Is this how you want to be remembered? 
YURI (shrug) You're only remembered when you're dead. 
Yuri knocks back his vodka, tries to lighten the mood. 
YURI (cont'd) I'll bring you back some caviar. 
ANATOLY It's not kosher. 
A crash.  VITALY and a call-girl, ANGEL, dressed in a low-cut fairy dress, stumble through the front door - both the worse for drink and drugs. 
VITALY Merry fucking Christmas! 
Angel laughs.  The family gazes at Vitaly and his friend, appalled. 
ANATOLY (paternal) Vitaly, who is this? 
ANGEL Angel. 
VITALY Her name really is Angel.  She's a fairy. (hoisting Angel) Let's stick her on top of the Christmas tree. 
Vitaly and Angel laugh.  No one else does. 
Vitaly collapses on the floor.  Nicolai cries. 
VITALY (cont' d) (at a loss for anything better) I love you all. 
Yuri firmly escorts Angel to the door and pays her off. 
EXT.  ST. JOSEPH'S DRUG REHAB CLINIC - UPSTATE NEW YORK.  DAY. 
YURI drops VITALY back at the exclusive rehab center. 
By now Yuri knows the routine.  He pours a gram onto the dashboard. 
YURI I'm going back to Ukraine. 
Vitaly snorts it off the dash. 
VITALY (maudlin) I miss Odessa.  I miss you. 
YURI I miss you too. 
Vitaly kisses Yuri. 
VITALY (cont'd) (meeting his brother's eye) Be careful, Yuri.  Those things you sell, kill... (tapping Yuri's chest where his heart should be) ...inside. 
Two ORDERLIES open the car door, escort Vitaly away.  Yuri stares after Vitaly. 
INT.  UPPER EASTSIDE APARTMENT.  DAY. 
AVA and NICKI kiss YURI goodbye. 
EXT./INT.  PUBLIC STORAGE FACILITY - MANHATTAN.  MORNING. 
YURI enters a public storage facility, opens a locker with a combination lock. 
YURI (V.O.) There's no problem leading a double life. It's the triple and quadruple lives that get you in the end. 
He produces several passports from the locker, shuffles the passports like playing cards. 
YURI (V.O.) Back then I carried a French, British, Israeli and Ukrainian passport and a student visa for the U.S., but that's another story. 
The locker also contains five identical briefcases - presumably he can tell them apart. 
YURI (V.O.) I also packed five different briefcases depending on the region of the world I was visiting. 
EXT.  BORDER CHECKPOINT - IZMAYIL, UKRAINE.  DAY. 
Light snow falls.  YURI, driving a brand new Mercedes, waits in a long line of cars at the border. 
Izmayil, Ukraine - January, 1992 
YURI (V.O.) The end of the Cold War was the beginning of the hottest time in arms dealing.  The Wall had fallen.  The arms bazaar was open. Those forty-five years had generated the highest weapons build-up in history.  The Soviets had tanks and guns coming out the demon hole - huge stockpiles and now no enemy. 
A Border Guard approaches Yuri's car window. 
BORDER GUARD (in English, checking Yuri's passport) Visa? 
Yuri hands the Guard his passport.  Inside, a credit card emblazoned, "VISA". 
The guard smiles. 
BORDER GUARD (cont'd) Cash or check only. 
EXT.  ODESSA MILITARY BASE - GATE.  DUSK. 
SIMEON, flanked by two hefty BODYGUARDS, is in the face of a YOUNG OFFICER. 
The Officer is flanked by three SOLDIERS, Kalashnikovs resting on their hips. 
SIMEON Do you know who the fuck I am? 
OFFICER (thick Ukrainian accent) Who the fuck cares who the fuck you are? 
SIMEON I demand to see your commanding officer. 
OFFICER You don't demand shit. 
Simeon reconsiders his position. 
SIMEON Just give me back my papers. 
OFFICER (papers clearly visible in his hand) What papers? 
The Officer turns on his heel and returns to his guard station with the passport, starts watching TV.  The Bodyguards make to follow but the Soldiers close ranks, barring their path. 
Simeon fumes. 
YURI (O.C.) You're late, Simeon. 
YURI breezes past the Soldiers with an easy familiarity.  He enters the guard station as if he owns it. 
From beside his car, Simeon watches as Yuri jovially discusses the situation with the Young Officer.  After a moment Yuri slips the Officer money in exchange for Simeon's passport. 
Yuri emerges from the station and returns the passport to the veteran gunrunner. 
YURI (cont'd) I invited you for a drink once before. Perhaps now you will accept my invitation. 
INT.  ODESSA HOTEL BAR.  NIGHT. 
YURI and SIMEON sit at a table near the back of the bar.  Yuri flirts with the BARMAID delivering drinks and a shellfish appetizer. 
BARMAID (to Yuri, impressed) You sell guns? 
YURI Maybe you'd like to come to my room and see my bazooka. 
The Barmaid giggles and exits. 
Simeon is clearly disquieted by the change in the balance of power or maybe it's the bad early-nineties pop music.  His BODYGUARDS sit at the table behind. 
YURI You look a little lost, Simeon.  Is the world changing too fast? 
SIMEON I am here, aren't I? 
YURI Not all of you, I think. 
Simeon's look begs explanation. 
YURI (cont'd) You've gotten so rich selling for the CIA, you can't get that ideology completely out of your head.  The empire was evil for too long. 
Simeon shrugs. 
SIMEON I can't deny, it takes some getting used to. Last week we were trying to beat their brains in and now we're going into business together. 
YURI There's no place in gunrunning for politics anymore, Simeon.  I sell to leftists, rightists.  I'd sell to pacifists but they're not the most regular of customers. 
Yuri leans forward. 
YURI (cont'd) Of course, you're not a true internationalist until you've supplied weapons to kill your own countrymen. 
Simeon regards the young man with a mixture of fear and admiration pours himself another drink. 
SIMEON I understand you have Ukraine in your pocket but there are the other satellite states. Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Belarus.  Instead of cutting each other's throats, it may be more profitable to work together.  What do you think? 
Yuri smiles - the proposal is the victory he has been seeking. 
YURI I think you are the amateur now.  I think you suffer from a philosophical disadvantage - you have a philosophy.  I think you should go with your instincts - your first instinct. 
Simeon is confused. 
YURI (cont'd) I am the same man who was not good enough for you before.  I am not good enough for you now. 
Simeon blanches.  Yuri gets up. 
Simeon holds his rival's arm. 
SIMEON The problem with gunrunners going to war is there's no shortage of ammunition. 
Yuri departs. 
INT.  HOTEL ROOM - ODESSA HOTEL.  NIGHT. 
YURI and the BARMAID never make it to the bed.  Still clothed, they bang each other against the door of his hotel room. 
YURI (V.O.) Back then, it was all for sale... 
A bodyguard takes Yuri's suitcase.  Yuri is barely in the car before it screeches away. 
As the car roars along the highway on the edge of control, we hear Yuri's thoughts. 
YURI (V.O.) But if I thought I was scared of Andre Senior, I knew I was scared of Andre Junior. Like father, like son.  The guava doesn't fall too far from the tree.  He was a heavy- drinker, a womanizer with a penchant for cheerleaders and a lover of fast American automobiles which he drove recklessly and with total impunity around the streets of the capital.  Oh yes, he was also a cannibal.  They say Andre would eat a victim's heart while it was still beating to give him superhuman strength.  I could've told him he'd get the same effect from a pastrami sandwich at Carnegie's Deli. 
Andre announces his arrival in the main street of Monrovia with a burst of gunfire.  The city, a violent clash of cultures.  Goats and Gucci. 
YURI (V.O.) Monrovia itself was like being on another planet.  Planet Monrovia.  From the temperature it was obviously a planet close to the sun.  I rarely saw another white man even at my hotel that was soon dubbed the "Little Kremlin".  And I never left town alone.  Outside town, was the edge of hell. I didn't want to even gaze into it. 
The car pulls up to Monrovia's premier hotel.  A DEAD BODY on the ground attracts no attention whatsoever. 
ANDRE JNR. This is your hotel. (proudly) Two stars. 
A PORTER, carrying Yuri's suitcase, steps over the dead body. 
ANDRE JNR. (cont'd) (to Yuri) Can you bring me the gun of Rambo? 
YURI Part One, Two or Three? 
ANDRE JNR. (confused) I have only seen Part One. 
YURI (nodding) The M60.  You want the attachable grenade launcher? 
ANDRE JNR. Please.  And the armor piercing bullets. (revving the car) I will be back to get you in an hour...or two.  It's Liberia. (mischievous smile) We left a welcoming present in your room. 
Yuri nods, uncertainly. 
INT.  HOTEL AFRICA - LIBERIA.  DAY. 
YURI enters the hotel. 
At the reception desk, two HOTEL PORTERS watch a small, portable TV - CNN coverage of the O.J. Simpson trial - gruesome evidence photos. 
HOTEL PORTER #1 (never averting his eyes from the screen) My God, he nearly cut off her head. 
HOTEL PORTER #2 When I get to America, I will not live in Brentwood. 
The CONCIERGE hands Yuri a key. 
INT.  HALLWAY / HOTEL ROOM.  DAY. 
YURI goes to open his hotel room door - hears music from inside, enters. 
Two stunning LIBERIAN GIRLS sit naked on the bed bopping to Madonna's lILike A Prayer". 
YURI (V.O.) In the most AIDS infested region of the globe, where one in four is infected, Andre's idea of a joke was to put a young Iman and a young Naomi naked in my bed and no condom within a hundred miles. 
GLORIA Hello, Mr. Yuri. 
FAITH We'd be happy to make you happy. 
The two goddesses drape themselves around him. 
GLORIA Don't worry, we don't have anything. 
YURI How do you know? 
FAITH Do we look like it? 
YURI (fending them off but with little commitment) What if I have AIDS?  Don't you worry? 
Gloria's lips gently touch his. 
GLORIA You worry too much. 
Faith begins to unbutton his shirt. 
FAITH (sultry) Why worry about something that can kill you in ten years when there are so many things that can kill you today? 
Gloria's hands go to his belt buckle, start to unfasten it. 
GLORIA How can we make you happy? 
With great reluctance Yuri reaches behind him and opens the door. 
YURI By leaving. 
EXT.  HOTEL - CORRIDOR.  DAY. 
FAITH and GLORIA, still buck-naked, are tossed into the hallway, their clothes flung after them, door slammed shut. 
INT.  BAPTISTE'S PRESIDENTIAL OFFICE - MONROVIA.  DAY. 
A Glock .45, Heckler & Koch .40 and a Beretta 9mm sitm on the ostentatious mahogany desk in front of President of Liberia, ANDRE BAPTISTE - a few pounds heavier, still wearing the same size uniform.  ANDRE JNR. watches over his shoulder. 
Andre Baptiste examines each handgun methodically. 
In front of him, a pensive YURI, taking in his surroundings.  Half a dozen gun-toting ELITE GUARDS keep an idle watch.  Several HOSTESSES tend to a refreshments table.  On a nearby sofa, a LIEUTENANT flirts with one of the hostesses. 
Baptiste glances over to the Lieutenant, irritated. 
AVA, talking excitedly on the phone, hangs up, runs to greet him. VITALY, in the background, cocktail in hand, with another dubious- looking GIRLFRIEND, is examining another of Ava's paintings. 
AVA Yuri, I just got off the phone with the dealer.  I sold my first painting. 
Yuri and Vitaly greet each other with a nod. 
YURI (feigning surprise) Fantastic.  Who bought it? 
AVA Someone important.  They want to remain anonymous. (asking in a way that does not expect an answer) How was your trip? 
YURI You know.  Same old, same old. (quickly changing the subject) Where's Nicki, in bed? 
AVA I'm sorry.  Poor darling.  He tried to stay up. 
YURI I'll kiss him goodnight. 
VITALY (opening champagne) This calls for a drink. 
YURI What doesn't? 
AVA (still giddy at the news) My first painting.  I'm officially an artist! 
He watches Ava showing off more of her paintings to Vitaly and the latest girlfriend. 
YURI (V.O.) I figured I was a patron of the arts and of everything else Ava had tried and failed at after modelling.  Acting, her own cosmetics line.  I didn't sabotage her careers but I can't deny it was convenient for me in maintaining a low profile.  She was a beautiful bird in a gilded cage. 
INT.  BEDROOM - NEW YORK APARTMENT.  NIGHT. 
YURI kisses his sleeping son, NICOLAI, now three years old. 
He places a gift at the end of his bed - an expensive-looking microscope. 
At the same time he spies an object in Nicolai's toy box - a toy gun. 
INT.  KITCHEN / LIVING ROOM - NEW YORK APARTMENT.  NIGHT. 
YURI tosses the toy gun in the trash. 
VITALY, still in the kitchen, catches him - pretends he didn't see. 
YURI How are you, brother? 
VITALY (shrug) You know, still the resident family fuck-up. 
YURI Someone has to do it. 
They watch Ava in the living room sharing a joke with Vitaly's girlfriend. 
VITALY She knows, right? 
YURI We don't talk about it. 
Vitaly looks askance. 
YURI (cont'd) (shrug) How many car salesmen talk about their work, how many executives at cigarette companies? And both of their products kill more people every year than mine.  At least mine has a safety switch.  If those guys can leave their work at the office, why can't I? 
VITALY Shit, you're good.  You almost had me convinced. (to his girlfriend, knocking back his drink) We're going, baby. 
LATER 
Yuri and Ava are alone at the window, overlooking Central Park.  He hands her a fresh glass of champagne. 
YURI (raising his glass for a toast) To Manet, Monet...and Ava Cordova. 
Ava grins, goes to drink when she notices two huge diamond earrings laying at the bottom of the glass. 
AVA (gasp) Yuri! 
YURI (shrug) The trip went better than expected. 
AVA (fishing out the damp baubles) Yuri, they're beautiful. (flirtacious grin) But what am I going to wear them with? 
YURI (flirting back) I know just the outfit. 
They kiss. 
INT.  BEDROOM - NEW YORK APARTMENT.  NIGHT. 
CLOSE UP on the diamonds dangling from AVA's ears.  She wears the earrings and nothing else as she and YURI make love. 
YURI (V.O.) I didn't know how much she knew and how much she ignored.  I was a good provider and as far as she was concerned - loyal.  Despite the other women, I always made love to Ava as if she was the only one. 
INT.  HELICOPTER - MANHATTAN.  MORNING. 
From an unmarked helicopter, JACK VALENTINE and his INTERPOL AGENTS shadow a Mercedes sedan as it weaves through midtown traffic. 
INT.  SEDAN.  MORNING. 
YURI rides in the back seat of the sedan, scouring the world affairs sections of several newspapers. 
A thought interrupts his homework. 
PILOT (to Yuri, anxious) I'm putting us down. 
YURI (incredulous) You land and we're all going away!  I don't have paperwork! 
PILOT (incredulous) We're in a flying fucking bomb!  They're firing bullets at our bullets!  Forget about going away!  They shoot again, we're going away for good!  I'm putting us down. 
YURI (knowing he's right) Okay!  Okay!--Fuck!! 
The pilot responds on the radio. 
PILOT (into radio) This is Charlie Echo India.  Descending on heading zero two nine. 
The Interpol jet takes the lead towards a small airport.  Yuri surveys the terrain below, getting his head back in the game. 
YURI (pointing out a narrow highway) Not the airport.  There.  The highway.  It's our only fucking hope. 
PILOT (concerned) A pothole could set us off. 
YURI Don't underestimate yourself.  You're the best, Tony. 
The pilot doesn't buy it but reluctantly changes course anyway. 
INT.  INTERPOL JET.  DAY. 
From his own wingseat, VALENTINE observes the Ilyushin's detour, landing on the highway. 
INTERPOL PILOT I can't land there. 
VALENTINE (to the pilot) He can't get far.  I want a truck waiting on the tarmac. 
EXT.  HIGHWAY.  DAY. 
A heavily-trafficked highway.  WOMEN carrying water jars on their heads, a thin COW pulling the carcass of a car, VENDORS selling dry meat, CHILDREN playing war games. 
The pedestrians look up to see the lumbering Ilyushin making its final approach - they scatter. 
The Ilyushin weaves on landing, hits a bone-jarring pothole. 
INSIDE THE PLANE - boxes of grenades, bullets and other munitions jump dangerously up and down. 
Finally, the Ilyushin pulls up safely on the highway, engines shutting down.  YURI's head appears out of the cockpit window. 
Curious LOCALS, recovered from the shock, are gathering at the side of the road. 
YURI (to the pilots, sizing up the locals) We're going to be okay. 
The PILOTS are already halfway out of the plane door, grabbing supplies as they go. 
YURI (cont'd) (calling out from the window) Where are you going? 
PILOT As far from the evidence as I can. 
The pilots start running down the highway. 
YURI Wait, you idiots!  There's not going to be any evidence!  Stay with the plane! 
The pilots ignore him - run for their lives. 
YURI is left alone.  He turns a lever marked, "CARGO BAY". 
EXT.  CARGO BAY.  DAY. 
The rear cargo bay opens.  YURI stands beside his incriminating merchandise. 
YURI (to the gathering locals) Help yourselves.  Be my guest.  No charge. 
One LOCAL MAN tentatively approaches the cargo bay.  Yuri hands him an AK-47 and a box of shells. 
More SIERRA LEONESE LOCALS emerge from the side of the road, seemingly out of thin air. 
Yuri hands out more guns. 
YURI (cont'd) (to other locals) Take the whole crate. 
Two men oblige, ferrying the crate away. 
The other locals become bolder, then brazen. 
Soon it's a free-far-all.  Men, women and children swarm all over the plane pilfering the arms and anything else that isn't bolted down - also a lot that is. 
Yuri has to exit the plane to avoid being trampled in the rush. 
EXT.  HIGHWAY.  DAY. 
YURI buys a Fanta from a vendor - exchanging it for a box of grenades. 
He sits on a soda crate for a front row seat at the chaos. 
Yuri has a calculator out - totalling his losses. 
YURI (muttering under his breath, shutting off the calculator in disgust) What a fucking disaster. 
Yuri looks away, knows where this is going. 
VALENTINE (cont'd) You may ask, why do I bother to do that?  I can assure you, it is not because I enjoy your company.  And you may be surprised to learn that it is not for any vindictive motive.  No. The reason I delay you for every second of the permissible twenty-four hours, is that I am delaying your deadly trade and the deaths of your victims.  I don't think of it as taking a day from you but giving a day to them.  Some innocent man, woman or child somewhere has one more day on this earth because you are not free. 
Valentine looks to his watch. 
VALENTINE (cont'd) See you in twenty-three hours and fifty five minutes. 
Valentine walks away.  Yuri is left to ponder the notion. 
We see time lapse photography of Yuri waiting out his twenty-four hours, under armed guard on the highway - stretching his legs, eating a suspicious-looking sandwich, going to the bathroom, the sun arcing across the sky - all the while his plane is being cannibalized by the locals.  Finally the time lapse slows back into real time. 
Valentine returns in a Jeep with Mbizi and other Agents. 
VALENTINE You'll be pleased to know your colleagues were no more co-operative than you. 
Valentine opens the back of the Jeep.  Lying in the back, the bodies of the two PILOTS shot and stripped. 
VALENTINE (cont'd) The locals got to them before we could. 
Yuri turns away from the sight.  His handcuffs are removed. 
Returning Yuri's documents, Valentine notices a photo of AVA and NICKI in the wallet. 
VALENTINE (cont'd) Handsome family. 
Valentine and the Agents get back in the truck and drive away. 
EXT.  HIGHWAY.  DUSK. 
YURI starts to walk down the deserted highway alone - his cargo plane is now just another carcass in the jungle. 
A CONVOY of armored personnel carriers barrels past him - the color: U.N. white.  The lead car slams on its brakes, bringing the train to a stop.  A woman pokes her head out of the window - CAPTAIN VIVIAN CARLISLE. 
VIVIAN (pleasantly surprised) Yuri!  Yuri Orlov! 
YURI (giving her an embarrassed hug) Vivian... 
VIVIAN What are you doing here? 
YURI (approaching the window) You know.  Fighting the good fight. 
VIVIAN An aid program? 
YURI Uh, yes.  In fact, I've just had some transport problems.  You couldn't give me a ride to Monrovia, could you? 
VIVIAN Sure.  Climb in. 
Yuri steps back into a vehicle with which he is very familiar. 
VIVIAN (cant' d) We're pulling out.  It's too dangerous. It's a shame.  We were really doing some good things. 
Yuri nods in understanding. 
INT.  HOTEL AFRICA - YURI'S HOTEL ROOM.  NIGHT. 
A weary YURI enters his room.  Sitting on the green sofa - bound and gagged, face reduced to pulp, silver hair matted with blood - SIMEON. 
YURI Jesus!  Simeon! 
ANDRE JNR., a FLUNKY and his CHEERLEADERS appear from behind the door, laughing at his shocked reaction. 
YURI (cont'd) Andre!  What in heaven is he doing here? 
ANDRE JNR. A gift for you. 
Yuri stares into the old gunrunner's terrified eyes. 
ANDRE JNR. (cont'd) You got here just in time.  I was afraid he would die before you got a chance to kill him. 
He offers Yuri a Beretta. 
YURI Me?! 
ANDRE JNR. Who do you think informed on you - cost you your plane?  He came to meet my father, hoping to take your place. 
Yuri spits on Simeon. 
YURI You stupid old fuck! 
ANDRE JNR. (knowing smile) He killed your man when he tried to kill you. 
Andre again offers Yuri the Beretta. 
YURI No. 
ANDRE JNR. (confused) You want us to let him go? 
YURI No.  No.  I... 
Andre offers him the gun a third time.  Yuri refuses it. 
PROSTITUTE (in French, as she counts Yuri's money) It's not what I would call a fuck. 
The prostitute tosses a couple of bills back to him.  Yuri ignores the money, staggers after her. 
YURI Are you sick? 
She ignores him. 
YURI (cont'd) (screaming) Are you sick?! 
Yuri staggers to his feet - wanders aimlessly across a field. 
A DANCE IN DUST SOMEWHERE ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF MONROVIA 
Two dozen pairs of feet chase each other on a dirt field to cheers from a crowd.  The dust clears, revealing a bundle of cloth and string doubling as a soccer ball.  The game is between two indistinguishable teams of MONROVIAN YOUNGSTERS on a makeshift dirt field, goalposts constructed from tree branches lashed together. 
YURI wanders onto the field, joins the game without asking.  The players humor him by letting him have the ball. 
Yuri dribbles up field, takes an enormous swipe at the ball, misses completely, clattering to the ground. 
The crowd and players laugh.  The game goes on.  Yuri, also laughing but in a far more desperate manner, picks himself up and wanders away. 
A LIBERIAN BAR CALLED "ZANZI-BAR" 
YURI throws up at the back of a saloon flimsily constructed from rusted corrugated iron. 
Rinsing out his mouth with vodka, he is distracted by the sound of two little GIRLS arguing. 
GIRL #1 (O.C.) They will! 
GIRL #2 (O.C.) They won't! 
GIRL #1 (O.C.) They will! 
GIRL #2 (O.C.) They won't! 
GIRL #1 They will! 
GIRL #2 Ask the foreigner.  The foreigner will know. 
The GIRLS approach Yuri - no older than seven, formal white dresses, hands politely behind their backs. 
YURI Hello. 
GIRL #1 Sir, will my fingers grow back? 
One of the girls shows Yuri a healed stump where her hand should be. 
Yuri runs away. 
A MODERN SCULPTURE SOMEWHERE IN MONROVIA 
YURI passes in front of an abstract arrangement of holes that turns out to be a building pock-marked with gunshells. 
Suddenly a FACE appears in one of the holes - SIMEON.  The gunshot wound in his forehead still evident.  Yuri gasps. 
YURI Simeon. 
Simeon turns and walks away - revealing a large exit wound in the back of his head. 
YURI (cont'd) Simeon!! 
Yuri pokes his head through the hole but Simeon has vanished.  Yuri turns back to find himself trapped by TWO MEN in flip-flops, shorts, Gap T-shirts and AK-47's. 
Through Yuri's eyes the two men look like four.  The two/four men go through Yuri's pockets, take his watch, shoes. 
Yuri is oddly compliant - clumsily helping one of the thieves fasten the watch. 
One of the men, tired of Yuri's antics, aims his gun at Yuri's head. His colleague stops him. 
MAN #1 Don't.  He's Andre's. 
MAN #2 (keeping his gun raised) Fuck Andre. 
YURI (seemingly beyond caring) Yeah, fuck Andre. 
The man fires at Yuri.  The gun jams.  Yuri looks almost disappointed.  The man tries again.  Again the gun jams. 
YURI (referring to the gun) I'm sorry.  They don't usually do that.  Let me have a look.  Maybe I can fix it. 
MAN #1 (disgusted) Fuck off! 
The man whips the gun across Yuri's face. 
A PATH OUTSIDE MONROVIA 
YURI, face streaked with blood and dirt, wanders aimlessly through the brush outside Monrovia. 
A HYENA appears on the dirt path in front of him - teeth bared, frenzied eyes. 
Yuri stares at the wild dog - starts to quietly cry.  Tears roll down his cheeks. 
YURI, still carrying his suitcase, appears in the doorway.  He drops the case. 
YURI Ava, what's wrong?  Where's Nicki? 
AVA (still with her back to us) He's with your parents. 
Yuri senses something very wrong. 
YURI Why aren't you dressed?  I thought we were going out. 
He finds a robe from the closet - gently places it around her.  She pulls it off her shoulders. 
AVA (turning back to look at him) I can't wear the clothes.  I can't wear the jewelry.  I can't drive the car.  I can't live in this house.  Everything1s got blood on it. 
Yuri pulls the robe back onto her shoulders, walks to the window. 
YURI Don't be so melodramatic. 
Ava pulls the robe to her, follows Yuri to the window. 
AVA Of course I'm melodramatic.  I'm a failed actress, remember?  We need to talk about it. 
YURI Why?  We never have before. 
AVA Now we do. 
Yuri notices the Interpol business card on the bedside table. 
YURI These people - you can't trust them-- 
AVA --I've talked to your parents.  Why do you think they don't want your money?  They know where it comes from.  We all know. 
Yuri sighs, resigned. 
YURI I sell people a means to defend themselves, Ava.  That's all.  I don't hold a gun to any one's head and make them shoot-- 
AVA --Yuri, I see the news.  Sierra Leone-- 
YURI --I don't sell machetes. 
AVA --What do you think is pointing at the victims when they use those machetes?  I see the pictures.  Yuri, the guns are bigger than the boys. 
YURI (angered) There's nothing illegal about what I do. 
AVA I don't care if it's legal, it's wrong. 
Ava meets his eye. 
AVA (cont' d) I can accept the drugs.  I can even accept the other women.  I can't accept this. 
Yuri looks away. 
AVA Please stop. 
YURI (looks back) It makes no difference if I stop.  Someone will take my place the next day. 
AVA Let them.  We have enough.  You're not that little boy in Odessa anymore, lining up for a loaf of bread-- 
YURI --It's not about the money. 
AVA What is it? 
He doesn't answer - perhaps he doesn't have one.  Ava looks out of the window at their expensive view. 
AVA (cont'd) I feel like all I've done my whole life is be pretty.  All I've done is be born.  I'm not just a failed actress.  I'm also a failed writer, failed artist, failed businesswoman.  I'm not much good as a mother.  Come to think of it, I'm not even that pretty any more.  I've failed at everything, Yuri. (turning back to him) But I won't fail as a human being.  I'm leaving. 
The words finally register with Yuri. 
YURI You can't leave.  I'll stop. (as if trying to convince himself) I'll stop. 
Ava is skeptical.  He holds her, reassures her. 
YURI (cont'd) I've been thinking about it for a while.  A lot, lately. (as if trying to convince himself) I'm making more from the oil and timber anyhow. (further reassurance) I'll stop. 
She interrogates his eyes for the truth. 
AVA (pleading eyes) You will?  You promise? 
YURI (deadly serious) Yes. (changing the subject a millisecond too fast) Now get dressed.  We'll go out. 
Ava picks up the dress off the bed. 
Yuri gazes at her. 
YURI (cont'd) By the way, you're wrong about not being pretty any more. 
She turns back and smiles. 
EXT.  FIFTH AVENUE AT CENTRAL PARK EAST.  DAY. 
A YOUNG INTERPOL AGENT, carrying a tray of coffee, approaches a plain panel van parked outside Yuri's apartment building. 
INT.  UPPER EAST SIDE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM.  NIGHT. 
YURI enters, sits in an armchair.  AVA and NICOLAI are cuddled on the sofa - Ava reading him a fairytale. 
AVA (looking up from the book) Was that about the oil or the timber? 
YURI Both.  Everything. 
Ava smiles, carries on reading. 
Yuri looks to his hand - we rack focus to the uncut diamond.  Yuri gets up. 
INT.  UPPER EAST SIDE APARTMENT - GARBAGE ROOM.  NIGHT. 
YURI, still in his suit, stands in a dumpster, searching. 
YURI (V.O.) At four and a half months a human fetus has a reptile's tail - a remnant of our evolution. 
Amongst a pile of rotten food he finds his necklace containing the BULLET. 
YURI (V.O.) You can fight a lot of enemies and survive but if you fight your biology you always lose. 
Yuri places the bullet around his neck. 
INT.  NEW YORK APARTMENT.  MORNING. 
AVA is fastening eight-year-old NICOLAI's coat, readying to go out. YURI, half-dressed, appears in the hallway. 
YURI Hey, not even waiting to say goodbye?  I'm leaving in ten minutes. 
AVA Sorry, Nicki has swim practice. 
Nicolai kisses his father. 
NICOLAI Bye, Papa. 
YURI (hugging him) See you, big guy. 
Ava kisses Yuri. 
AVA (teasing him) Personally, I'm glad you're going.  You've been here so long you're starting to get on my nerves. 
YURI (taking the teasing good- naturedly) This oil concession should be wrapped up by Thursday.  I'll be back for the weekend. We'll go somewhere - the sea. 
AVA That would be fun. 
A thought occurs to Yuri. 
YURI You trust me, right? 
Yuri's turn to interrogate her eyes.  Ava smiles. 
YURI (V.O.) She looked me directly in the eye the way I've looked in the eyes of a thousand customs officials, government bureaucrats and footsoldiers from every law enforcement agency in the world - and she lied without flinching. 
AVA Yes, I trust you. 
YURI (V.O.) She'd learned from the best. 
Ava gives Yuri a final kiss, hurries Nicolai out the door. 
INT.  MERCEDES SEDAN.  DAY. 
From the rear seat of a Mercedes sedan we observe YURI exiting the apartment building and entering a waiting Mercedes sedan of his own. 
AVA (O.C.) (to the DRIVER) That's him. 
We reveal AVA and NICOLAI in the car.  Yuri's car pulls away and Ava's car follows. 
NICOLAI (confused) Where are we going, Mama? 
AVA It's a game. 
NICOLAI Like hide and seek? 
AVA Yes. 
EXT.  PUBLIC STORAGE FACILITY.  DAY. 
YURI locks his storage locker, observable from the street, and exits the facility carrying a passport and briefcase. 
YURI (V.O.) I can always sense when I'm being tailed.  I know what to look for.  But then I'd never been tailed by the woman I love. 
Returning to his car, Yuri fails to notice that AVA has witnessed his routine from her own car. 
Instead of following the car, Ava exits with Nicolai. 
INT.  PUBLIC STORAGE FACILITY.  DAY. 
AVA, NICOLAI in tow, approaches Yuri's locker. 
She tries a combination - fails.  Tries another - fails.  A third - same result. 
VITALY Jesus. 
Vitaly comes to a horrific realization. 
He hurries to Yuri, still negotiating with the Rebel Leader. 
VITALY Yuri, I need to talk to you. 
YURI Not now. 
VITALY (insistent) Now. 
YURI (to the Rebel Leader) Excuse me. 
Vitaly draws Yuri out of earshot. 
YURI (irritated by the interruption) What? 
VITALY (anxious whisper) We can't do this deal. 
YURI (incredulous) The fuck we can't. 
VITALY (referring to the camp) Look over there.  As soon as we leave, they're going to die. 
YURI (averting his eyes from the camp) It's not our business. 
VITALY (protesting) They killed a boy just now - as young as Nicki. 
Yuri flinches. 
The suspicious Rebel Leader and Andre Jnr. approach the two brothers. 
REBEL LEADER What's the hold up? 
YURI (trying to keep his poise) There is no hold up.  I'll be right there. 
Yuri draws Vitaly further away. 
YURI (cont'd) Vitaly, it's what we always know - we can't control what they do. 
VITALY Today we can.  They're right there - close enough to touch. 
YURI (angry, impatient) What do you think they'll do if we back out - they'll kill us. 
VITALY And if we go ahead - they'll kill them. 
The Rebel Leader approaches again - this time he's not leaving. 
REBEL LEADER What is he saying? 
YURI Nothing. 
Vitaly realizes the futility of the discussion, backs down. 
VITALY (resigned) Nothing.  You're right, Yuri.  You're right. (getting his head back in the game) Did I hear you say 300 IPG's, 500 assault rifles and 800 grenades?  I thought it was 1,200 grenades.  I'd better check. 
Yuri pats his brother on the back, returns to the negotiating table. Vitaly heads for the trucks. 
For once we follow Vitaly.  Andre Jnr. regards Vitaly warily. 
INT.  TRUCK.  DAY. 
The prongs of a hammer on a box of grenades.  VITALY is prying open the lid. 
Andre Jnr. appears behind him - M60 poised ominously on his hip. 
ANDRE JNR. What are you doing? 
VITALY Something for Yuri. 
ANDRE JNR. Step away - slowly. 
Vitaly closes the lid - a ruse.  He picks up the hammer and in one sudden, violent motion swings it across Andre's face, smashing his jaw, teeth flying, Andre's body flopping like a rag doll. 
Vitaly grabs two grenades from the box, pulls the pin from one and bowls it into the truck. 
He runs. 
The truck explodes in a fireball - instantly incinerating Andre Jnr. 
Yuri's head whips around.  The Rebel Leader's head whips around. 
YURI Vit!! 
Vitaly dashes for the second truck. 
The REBEL LEADER opens fire, raking Vitaly with machine-gun fire - still trying to run with legs torn to shreds. 
YURI (cont'd) No!! 
A second hail of gunfire - all REBELS firing.  Vitaly's legs betray him.  He collapses to the ground in a pile of blood and dust. 
ANATOLY "Crimean Restaurant". 
YURI (O.C.) Papa? 
Anatoly looks at the telephone receiver in his hand - without another word he passes the phone to IRINA.  ANATOLY walks away. 
IRINA (into phone) Both my sons are dead. 
INT.  INTERVIEW ROOM.  DAY. 
CLOSE ON a SLUG in an evidence bag tossed onto a table - by VALENTINE.  The Agent can scarcely contain his excitement. 
YURI sits at the small table, stares at the slug. 
VALENTINE One of yours? 
Yuri doesn't take the bait. 
Two other AGENTS sit at the back of the room observe the interrogation. 
VALENTINE (cont'd) (referring to a document) Curiously, the death certificate says he died of heart failure. 
YURI (shrug) Maybe he did. (referring to the slug) If I saw one of those coming at me, l'd have heart failure. 
The flippant comment gets under Valentine's skin but he keeps his temper in check. 
VALENTINE We performed the autopsy and released your brother's body to your family.  You tried to do something decent, Yuri.  You went against your nature.  And now it's cost you. (unable to resist) Your brother's funeral is looking a lot like your funeral. 
YURI Falsifying a death certificate?  That's not going to hold me. 
VALENTINE You're right, as usual. 
Yuri not so cocky now - waits to see where this is going. 
VALENTINE (cont'd) (putting a copy of the New York Times in front of Yuri) Have you seen today's paper? 
A front photograph of VALENTINE posing beside Yuri's documents including his five BRIEFCASES.  The headline reads, "MERCHANT OF DEATH IN CUSTODY". Caption - "Catalogue of carnage." 
VALENTINE (cont'd) (pacing, lauding it over Yuri) Fake end-user certificates, cut-out companies, all meticulously catalogued. There's hardly a dictator, warlord or despot anywhere in the world you aren't on first name terms with. (producing another evidence bag containing Ava's diamond earrings and an engagement ring) Your trophy wife gave us the prize.  She also provided us with these - which we suspect are conflict diamonds. 
Yuri takes all this in. 
VALENTINE (cont'd) She has agreed to testify against you. 
Yuri nods - picks up the newspaper.  But instead of reading about his own front page news, he opens the paper, turns to World Affairs - various items on the warzones at the end of the millennium. 
Yuri reads, takes his time.  Valentine cannot believe his audacity. 
Finally Yuri reacts.  A broad smile - his killer smile. 
YURI Enjoy it. 
VALENTINE (confused) What? 
YURI This.  Tell me that I am everything you despise, that I am the personification of evil, that I'm responsible for the breakdown of the social fabric of society and world order, that I am a one man genocide.  Say everything you want to say to me now - because you don't have long. 
Valentine is infuriated by Yuri's casual demeanor. 
VALENTINE Are you not paying attention or are you delusional?  You've broken every arms embargo written.  There's enough in those briefcases to buy you consecutive life sentences.  You'll spend ten years going from a cell to a courtroom before you even start doing your time. 
Yuri is looking away, apparently completely unconcerned.  His attitude further angers Valentine. 
VALENTINE (cont'd) You don't seem to fully appreciate the seriousness of your situation! 
YURI (snapping back - his emotion finally showing) My family has disowned me.  My wife and son have left me.  My brother is dead.  Trust me, I fully appreciate the seriousness of my situation.  But I promise you I won't spend a single second in a courtroom. 
Valentine laughs derisively. 
VALENTINE You are delusional. 
Yuri is still unfazed.  He leans forward to close the deal. 
YURI I like you, Jack.  Well, maybe not.  But I understand you.  You feel your loyalty to your badge has finally been rewarded.  But you haven't counted on the people who gave you that badge. 
Valentine's turn to hesitate. 
YURI (cont'd) (meeting Valentine's gaze) Let me tell you what's going to happen so you can prepare yourself. 
Yuri nods to the interview room door. 
YURI (cont'd) Soon there's going to be a knock on that door and you're going to be called outside. 
A montage of scenes - Yuri's prediction plays out accompanied by his commentary. 
INT.  INTERVIEW ROOM.  DAY. 
A knock at the door and an AGENT nods to VALENTINE. 
YURI (O.C.) In the hall there will be a man who outranks you. 
INT.  HALLWAY - JAIL.  DAY. 
