"MAJOR LEAGUE" 
Screenplay by 
David S. Ward 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
FADE IN: TITLES APPEAR ON BLACK B.G. 
TITLES END and we WIDEN to reveal that the black b.g. is actually the sludge-clogged surface of the Cuyahoga River. We TILT UP from the river to reveal the city of Cleveland, then follow with a series of shots of Cleveland landmarks. 
INT. THE INJUN DINER - DAY 
Three men in Cleveland Indian baseball caps sit at the counter. BOBBY JAMES, 22-year-old grad student, VIC BOLITO, 30-year-old telephone worker, and JOHNNY WYNN, 45-year-old house painter. THELMA GORDON, 65-year-old waitress, delivers their breakfast. 
THELMA Spring training starts the twelfth. How do you think the Indians will do this year? 
VIC They don't look too good. 
The other two shake their heads in contemplation of this sorry fact. 
INT. MEN'S CLUB - DAY 
A 45-year-old BUSINESS EXECUTIVE is talking to a fellow club member over lunch. 
BUSINESS EXECUTIVE They don't look particularly good, do they? 
EXT. CLEVELAND DOCKS - DAY 
Two LONGSHOREMEN are talking while they unload a freighter. 
LONGSHOREMEN I'll tell ya. They don't look very fuckin' good. 
EXT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL STADIUM - DAY 
Down on the field, two KOREAN GROUNDSKEEPERS speak Korean as they resod the outfield. 
GROUNDSKEEPER (in subtitles) They're shitty. 
We TILT UP from the field to a glass-enclosed area on the third deck. 
INT. GLASS-ENCLOSED AREA - DAY 
It's the Cleveland Indians' conference room. Three men are seated around the table; CHARLIE DONOVAN. the manager, PHIL BUTLER, public relations head, JERRY SIMMONS, operations director and LYLE MATTHEWS director of player personnel Donovan taps his pencil impatiently, obviously waiting for somebody. 
DONOVAN (checking his watch) Thirty minutes late. Think she'll show? 
MATTHEWS She's got to. She's the damn owner now. 
DONOVAN She didn't last week. She was having a guava facial. 
As Butler tries to figure out what a guava facial is, the conference room doors swing open and a muscular MALE SECRETARY- BODYGUARD enters, clearing the way for MRS. RACHEL PHELPS, a flashy, striking woman in her early forties. Despite the designer clothes she favors, there is the hint of something less refined about her. She carries a Pekinese dog, CHA-CHA on her left hip. 
RACHEL Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome to another season of Indians' baseball. 
The men applaud, but their hearts are barely in it. The Secretary-Bodyguard pulls out a chair at the head of the table and Rachel sits. 
RACHEL I know that it may not seem the same without Donald here this year, but I promise you by the end of the season this team will have made history. 
Several eyes roll up around the room. 
RACHEL (picking up a newspaper) Unfortunately there are some in the press who feel that... (reading from the page) "the ex-showgirl wife of Donald Phelps has no business being the owner of a major league baseball team." 
Rachel crumbles the paper and throws it away. 
RACHEL Obviously, Donald didn't feel that way or he wouldn't have left the team to me. And I was more than showgirl. I was a dancer. Now, I know some of you have doubts about my ability to run this franchise. God help you if I ever find out about it. 
This causes a few nervous glances in the room. 
RACHEL Spring training begins in two weeks. (throwing a sheet of paper on the table) Here's the list of people we'll be inviting to camp this year. 
Donovan, Butler and Simmons pour over the list. 
RACHEL I could sit here and tell you what a great year we're gonna have, but the facts are we lost the two best players we had to free agency. We haven't won a pennant in 30 years. We haven't even finished in the first division for 15. Obviously it's time to make some changes. What do ya think? 
SIMMONS I never heard of half these guys. And the ones I do know are way past their prime. 
DONOVAN Most of these guys never had a prime. 
BUTLER (pointing to the sheet) This guy here is dead. 
RACHEL Cross him off then. 
BUTLER (under his breath) Let's not be hasty. 
INT. MOTEL ROOM - MORNING 
The room is a total mess. The back door is off its hinges and a few chickens have wandered in. As they peck around the debris, we PAN the room, taking in beer cans, food wrappers and finally a trail of hastily discarded clothes, both male and female. 
We reach the bed and find our hero, JAKE TAYLOR, 35, and with a couple days growth of stubble, passed out on his face. Sprawled across him asleep is a MEXICAN WOMAN in her late twenties. She's not great looking, but at least she's overweight. Taylor's hand fumbles to the RINGING telephone. 
TAYLOR Yeh. 
It's Charlie Donovan calling from his office in Cleveland. We CUT BACK AND FORTH between the two as we will in subsequent phone scenes. 
DONOVAN Hello, Jake? This is Charlie Donovan, new G.M. of the Cleveland Indians. 
TAYLOR (skeptical) Yeh... 
DONOVAN I wanted to call and say the organization remembers you fondly from the years you played here and we'd love to have you come to spring training for a shot at this year's club. 
TAYLOR Who is this? 
DONOVAN What? 
TAYLOR Is that you, Tolbert? This isn't very funny, ya know. I'm hung over. My knees are killin' me. If you were gonna pull this shit, you could've at least said you were from the Yankees. 
Taylor struggles to get a look up at the girl on top of him. 
TAYLOR (still to Donovan) By the way, you were with me last night. Who's this girl on top of me? 
Donovan is baffled by this whole line of conversation. 
TAYLOR Tolbert? Tolbert? Screw it. 
Taylor hangs up, leaving Donovan staring into his phone. Taylor looks up to see TOLBERT standing in the doorway. 
TAYLOR Tolbert. 
TOLBERT Who the hell were you talkin' to? 
On Taylor's reaction, we... 
CUT TO: 
INT. TOLEDO TIRE STORE - DAY 
We PICK UP LOU BROWN, a portly man in his early fifties, making his way to his glass-partitioned office. 
SECRETARY Lines three and four are waiting for you, Mr. Brown. One guy about the TR- 70's. 
BROWN (picking up the phone) Tire World. 
DONOVAN Lou? This is Charlie Donovan, the new G.M. of the Cleveland Indians. Listen, Lou, I hope you're sittin' down 'cause I got an offer you probably been dreamin' about your whole life. We been watchin' your progress down there at Toledo with a lotta interest and well... (a dramatic pause) How would you like to manage the Indians this year? 
For a moment there's silence on the line, then: 
BROWN I don't know... 
DONOVAN (incredulous) What do ya mean you don't know? This is a chance to manage in the big leagues. 
BROWN Lemme think it over, will ya, Charlie. I got a guy on the other line about some whitewalls. I'll talk to ya later. 
Brown clicks off. Donovan puts his head down on his desk. 
INT. CHARLIE DONOVAN'S OFFICE - DAY 
Donovan's on the phone to another player. 
DONOVAN Rick, we heard about your pitching out at Portland last year... 
RICKY VAUGHN 
Good-looking, muscular, 19-year-old. Sleeveless black T-shirt. Talking on a wall phone in a nondescript room. 
VAUGHN I'm, ah, not with them anymore... 
Vaughn has been working, sweating slightly. He takes off his cap to mop his brow -- revealing a RADICAL HAIRCUT with PIGTAIL. He sports a RING in his left ear. 
DONOVAN We'd still like to take a look at ya at our spring camp in Arizona, March first. 
LONG SHOT - VAUGHN 
In the b.g., Vaughn is on the phone. In the f.g., we see security bars. Vaughn's in a Youth Authority prison. 
VAUGHN Yeh, well, I'm not sure I can make it by then. 
DONOVAN Don't worry, we're gettin' you out on a sort of work furlough deal. Any questions? 
VAUGHN Yeh. Where's Cleveland? 
HAYES 
looking through the chain-link fence surrounding the field. 
DORN AND GENTRY AGAIN 
Temple brings them to their marks and blows his whistle. Dorn and Gentry take off. 
Suddenly Hayes, in his pajamas and bare feet comes streaking toward the starting line in hot pursuit. Dorn and Gentry a good 10-yard lead, but Hayes is coming like a bullet. We go to SLOW MOTION as Hayes draws even at the 80-yard mark and blasts on by to win by five. This kid is fast. Brown and Pepper give each other the "Who was that Masked Man" look. 
BROWN Get him a uniform. 
EXT. THE PRACTICE FIELD - LONG SHOT - DAY 
The players are spread out on the field doing calisthenics, counting off in unison. 
TAYLOR 
struggling through a series of pushups. He glances over in disbelief at Vaughn and Cerrano, who are doing them like pistons in competition with each other. Cerrano even starts doing them one-handed. 
Hayes isn't doing them at all; merely pulling his head up and down while leaving his body on the ground. 
HARRIS C'mon, Hayes, let's do 'em right. 
HAYES Hey, my philosophy is no pain, no pain. 
EXT. THE BATTING CAGE - DAY 
Taylor is crouched behind the plate, warming up his arm. Catching pitches and throwing them half-speed down to second. Brown drifts over. 
BROWN How the knees holdin' up, Jake? 
TAYLOR Great. Never been better. 
BROWN Mobility's good? No problem gettin' off the throw to second? 
TAYLOR No problem. 
BROWN I need a catcher, Jake. Somebody who can keep this team together on the field. You were a helluva player when you were sound, but around the league they think you can't take the pounding anymore. 
TAYLOR Around the league they're wrong. 
BROWN I'm gonna have to put you to the test, ya know. So, I want the absolute truth here. Are you 100 percent? 
TAYLOR Yeh. Would I bullshit about somethin' like that? 
BROWN (walking away) You better if you wanna make this team. 
Taylor smiles and fires one full-speed down to second. It bounces two feet in front of the bag. 
EXT. BATTING CAGE - DAY 
Brown is watching batting practice. 
Hayes steps into the cage and begins a preparatory ritual worthy of Babe Ruth -- rubbing dirt on his hands, stretching, knocking dirt off his spikes, twirling the bat, etc. A real slugger's routine. 
BROWN C'mon, Hayes, this isn't the All Star Game. Get up to the damn plate. 
Hayes gets in and takes his stance. On the first pitch, he takes a mighty cut and hits a pop-fly to the pitcher's mound. We take QUICK CUTS of the next three pitches. Hayes takes prodigious swings at all of them, producing three more pop- ups, none out of the infield. Brown calls a halt. 
BROWN Well, you may run like Mays, but you hit like shit. 
HAYES My stroke'll come back once I get warmed up. 
TEMPLE (referring to some stats) Never did get warmed up last year. Hit .211 at Maine. I looked him up. 
BROWN I think Mr. Hayes shows some promise. His speed could be a big asset. 
PEPPER (aside) For what? Running back to the dugout? 
BROWN You gotta stop swingin' for the fences though, Hayes. All you're gonna do is give yourself a hernia. With your speed you should be hittin' the ball on the ground, leggin' 'em out. Every time I see you hit one in the air, you owe me twenty pushups. 
HAYES Hey, no problem. 
The next pitch comes in. Hayes swings and pops it up. 
HAYES Shit. 
As he gets down to do his twenty, Brown turns to Temple. 
BROWN Sometimes you can teach a guy to hit. You can't teach him to run. 
BROWN AND PEPPER 
coming over to where Vaughn is tossing some casual warm-up pitches to Jake. 
VAUGHN What is that stuff? 
HARRIS (pointing to them in order) Crisco, Bardahl, Vagisil. Any one of 'em will give you another 2-3 inches drop on your curve ball. 
Vaughn can't believe this. 
HARRIS Course if it's cold and I got a shirt on under my jersey, I just rub a little jalapeno inside my nose and get it runnin'. I need to load up the ball a little, I just wipe my nose. 
VAUGHN (revolted) You put snot on the ball? 
HARRIS At my age, you put anything you can find on it. I haven't got an arm like yours. 
Vaughn just looks at him incredulous. 
TAYLOR AND CARRANO 
Taylor is undressing, but his attention is diverted by Cerrano whose stall is right next to him. Cerrano has set up an altar in his locker. In front of his bats, which are lined up like sentinels, is a table covered with pictures of baseball players, figurines of saints, several lit candles and, in the middle, a primitive fetish doll with a cigar in its mouth. 
Cerrano has drawn some magic signs on his bats. He finishes an incantation and then lights the cigar on the fetish doll. 
TAYLOR What are you doin' there, Pedro? 
CERRANO Bats. They are sick. 
TAYLOR So are mine. Is somethin' goin' around? 
CERRANO No hit curve ball. Straight ball, hit it very much. Curve ball, bats are afraid. I ask Jo-Buu to come. Take fear from bats. 
HAYES Jo-Buu? 
TAYLOR Maybe he's the pagan saint of baseball. 
CERRANO I offer him cigars and gin. He will come. 
Cerrano pours some gin in a small cup and puts it next to the fetish doll. Harris has been listening to all this. Cerrano grabs a towel to head for the showers. 
HARRIS I wouldn't leave this gin sittin' around out here with this group. 
CERRANO (with a certain gravity) Is very bad to steal Jo-Buu's gin. Is very bad. 
Cerrano closes his locker and goes off to the showers, leaving everyone to wonder just how bad. 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
MONTAGE SEQUENCE 
compressing and detailing the progress of spring training. We see: 
A) Vaughn on the pitcher's mound. A tin replica of a batter has been set up at home plate and rope stretched across the plate to delineate the strike zone. Vaughn fires a pitch and hits the tin batter in the hip, leaving a dent in him. 
B) Cerrano in the batting cage, flailing away in futility at several curve balls. 
C) HAYES 
doing push-ups at night. He's the only one left on the field, except Temple, who supervises. 
D) TAYLOR 
doing the "scramble" drill -- blocking down balls purposely thrown in the dirt, one after another. When it ends, he can hardly get to his feet. 
E) CERRANO 
waving a ten-foot BOA CONSTRICTOR in the sign of the cross in front of his locker before opening it. No red tag greets him. Hayes watches from a safe distance. 
F) VAUGHN 
holding a mirror under the vents on his locker door to get a peek inside to see if there's a red tag there. 
G) DORN 
taking a hard ground ball off the chest. Brown applauds. Dorn is pissed. 
H) VAUGHN 
throwing at the "ropes" again. The tin batter is dented in every conceivable place now. Vaughn whips in another fast ball. This one hits the tin man in the head, knocking it completely off. 
I) TAYLOR 
in an exhibition game, attempting to throw out a base stealer. Jake springs out of his crouch and fires down to second -- on a bounce. The ball skips into center field. 
J) HAYES 
also in an exhibition game, swinging at a pitch and popping it up behind the plate. He just drops in his tracks and starts to do push-ups as the catcher makes the catch behind him. 
VAUGHN What do you mean? 
BROWN I think somebody's been havin' fun with you. 
We GO TO Vaughn, his faced a mask of anger and embarrassment. 
THE LOCKER ROOM AGAIN 
Vaughn charges across the room and jumps Dorn. The men grapple and fight all over the room, until Taylor finally gets them separated. 
DORN (to Vaughn) What's the matter, little lady? Can't you take a joke? 
Vaughn gives Dorn a look that indicates this isn't over. Lou Brown enters the room. 
BROWN Can I have your attention, please? I counted up your ballots for team captain and I think you chose the right guy. If you hadn't, I woulda told you he won anyway. Mr. C for the year -- Jake Taylor. 
The team breaks into applause and whistles as Taylor's name is announced. Dorn is the only one who seems unhappy about it. As Taylor accepts the congratulations of his teammates, he turns to Vaughn. 
TAYLOR Forget about Dorn. You got other things to do. 
VAUGHN Like what? 
TAYLOR Packing for Cleveland. 
Taylor gives him a wide smile. Vaughn finally allows himself one. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. THE CLEVELAND SKYLINE - DAY 
Such as it is. We MOVE DOWN to the same diner we saw during the opening of the film. 
INT. INJUN DINER - DAY 
The same three guys as before are at the counter. 
THELMA You see the new lineup the Indians got? 
BOBBY I never heard of most of 'em. 
INT. EXECUTIVE LIMOUSINE - DAY 
The Business Executive is talking to the limo driver as he reads the sports section. 
BUSINESS EXECUTIVE I don't know the majority of these names. 
EXT. CLEVELAND DOCKS - DAY 
The two Longshoremen again, looking at a paper. 
LONGSHOREMAN Who are these fuckin' guys? 
EXT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL STADIUM - DAY 
The two Korean Groundskeepers again, dragging the infield. 
GROUNDSKEEPER (in subtitles) They're shitty. 
INT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL STADIUM - DAY 
Taylor is alone in the stadium, standing near home plate in his street clothes, taking in the massive stadium, remembering glories past. He steps into the batter's box and takes his stance. 
TAYLOR (to himself) Two down. Bottom of the ninth. 
Taylor points to the left field stands. He imagines a pitch coming in, takes a mighty swing and admires the flight of the imaginary ball as it arches high in the mid-day sky, landing deep in the left field seats. Breaking into his home run trot, he circles the bases, slapping the third base coach's hand and exchanging low fives with his teamates as he reaches the plate. 
Suddenly, his reverie is interrupted by the sound of applause. He turns and looks in the dugout, where Hayes and Vaughn are giving him a hand. 
HAYES Really got all of that one. 
VAUGHN What was it? A slider? 
Taylor is too embarrassed to reply. 
INT. CLEVELAND RESTAURANT - NIGHT 
One of Cleveland's finest. Taylor, Hayes and Vaughn are seated at a table. 
TAYLOR What are you gonna have? 
HAYES I don't know. What language is this? 
TAYLOR French. 
HAYES They got patty melts over there? 
Hayes lies in the dust humiliated. 
DOYLE Well, so much for that. 
Doyle takes a long pull on his Coke and we GO INTO A MONTAGE depicting the Indians' progressive disintegration in this game. We see: 
A) THREE FIELDERS converging on a short pop fly into left field. They all collide and go down in a heap as the ball drops untouched. 
B) DORN playing a grounder off his hip. He fumbles it, picks it up, fumbles it again. No play. 
C) TAYLOR crouched behind the plate, but up off his haunches, ready to throw. We hear the voice of his thoughts. 
TAYLOR'S VOICE Guy's goin'. Gotta be goin'... get the throw up. Don't bounce the damn ball. 
The runner on first takes off as the pitch comes in. Taylor catches the ball and fires down to second. The ball sails three feet over the second baseman's head and on into center field. Taylor stands there, disgusted. 
TAYLOR'S VOICE Nice throw, dickhead. 
D) CERRANO striking out on a curve ball. He bawls his bat out on the way to the dugout. 
E) THE THREE FIELDERS we saw before, converging on another pop fly into short left. This time all three dive off at the last instant to avoid a collision. Once again the ball drops untouched. 
END MONTAGE. 
THE SCOREBOARD 
It shows Yankees 4, Indians 0 after five innings. 
DOYLE UP IN THE BOOTH 
There are two empty Coca-Cola cups near the mike. He's working on a third. 
DOYLE Top of the sixth. Rookie sensation, Ricky Vaughn, on to pitch now. You can close the book on Winters... 
Vaughn stands on the mound rubbing up the baseball with the same intensity we saw in the locker room. 
TAYLOR Easy does it, Ricky. We're only four down. We're still in this thing. 
PEPPER Don't worry if you're off the plate on a few pitches. Doesn't hurt to put the fear of God in a hitter. 
Vaughn nods and continues to grind the ball as Pepper and Taylor leave. The Yankee Hitter steps in. 
Vaughn winds and fires a screamer. Taylor has to leap high to come down with it. 
DOYLE (V.O.) First pitch is a little high... 
The Yankee Hitter is slightly unnerved by this pitch. 
YANKEE HITTER This guy kinda wild? 
TAYLOR I figure you got a 30% chance to survive this at bat. 
ANOTHER PITCH to the Yankee hitter. It's outside. 
DOYLE (V.O.) Ball four. 
ANOTHER PITCH to a SECOND YANKEE HITTER. It's low. 
DOYLE (V.O.) Ball eight. 
ANOTHER PITCH to a THIRD YANKEE HITTER. He has to jump over it. 
DOYLE (V.O.) Low, and Vaughn has walked the bases loaded on twelve straight pitches. By the laws of probability, you'd think one of those coulda drifted over the plate. 
THE BLEACHER BAND 
Bobby gives the downbeat and, in honor of Vaughn, the three men stand to pound out a version of "Wild Thing" on the tom- toms. Bobby does the vocal. 
BOBBY Wild thing, You make my heart sing, You walk everything. 
Pepper has reached the mound... 
PEPPER Okay kid. I think we got 'em scared enough now. Time to get a few of 'em out. 
Vaughn nods. He's plenty upset with himself. 
PEPPER Just relax, and keep the arm up on top. Gotta throw strikes. No place at the inn for this guy. 
He gives Vaughn a pat on the butt, and goes back to the dugout. 
The Yankee hitter, HAYWOOD, stands in. He's the first baseman who tagged Hayes out. 
HAYWOOD Hey, Taylor, what you doin' back up here? 
TAYLOR Couldn't cut it in the Mexican League. 
LYNN Let's talk in my office, okay? 
TAYLOR I don't wanna talk in your office. 
Lynn starts to walk. We'll FOLLOW them as they make their way through the library. Lynn tries to keep the conversation hushed. Taylor could give a shit. 
LYNN I told you I don't think it's a good idea for us to see each other. 
TAYLOR Why not? 
LYNN We don't have anything in common. Sometimes I wonder if we ever did. 
TAYLOR What are you talkin' about? We were both athletes, world class, hot for each other. What more can you have in common? 
LYNN I stopped bein' an athlete three years ago. Books are my life now. 
Jake suppresses a smile. 
LYNN Don't you dare laugh, Jake. In two years I've put together one of the best special collections departments in the country. 
TAYLOR So what is it? You're still sore I never read Moby Dick? 
LYNN You never read anything I asked you to. 
TAYLOR Not like what's-his-name at the restaurant? 
LYNN His name is Tom, and keep your voice down. 
TAYLOR What do ya see in this guy? 
LYNN He's stable. He's intelligent... and I've never found him in bed with a stewardess. 
TAYLOR That's 'cause no stewardess would have him. Wouldn't you rather be with somebody who's in demand? 
LYNN Just like always, you don't take anything seriously. Everything's a joke to you. 
TAYLOR C'mon, Lynn, for Christ sake, I'm just tryin' to loosen things up a little. I'm gettin' frostbite here. 
Lynn stops and turns to face him. 
LYNN Tom and I are getting married in the fall. 
Taylor is momentarily floored by the revelation. 
TAYLOR What? That's crazy, Lynn. I got plans for us. 
LYNN (walking again) What plans? 
TAYLOR I was gonna play another a year or two, then we go to Hawaii, and have a couple kids who grow up to be Olympic champions. 
LYNN (stopping again) How can you think stuff like that? I haven't seen you in two years. You never even wrote me a letter. 
TAYLOR I'm sorry, Lynn, but I wasn't exactly proud of my situation. C'mon, you didn't think about me at all since I been gone? 
LYNN (walking again) Not so loud, Jake. 
TAYLOR Remember the three nights we spent on the beach in Vera Cruz? You have nights like that with Mr. Briefcase? 
LYNN (stopping again) What about the night you had in Detroit with Miss Dairy Queen? 
They're in the large reading room now. 
TAYLOR What was I supposed to do? She bet me fifty bucks she had a better body than you. I had to defend your honor. 
LYNN (whirling on him and exploding) What a bunch of bullshit! (exasperated) I have a much better body than she does. 
With this the whole reading room turns around and stares at her. Lynn is mortified by her outburst. Taylor tries to smooth it over. 
TAYLOR (addressing the library patrons) She's right. Take it from me, she really does. I mean Miss Dairy Queen has quantity, I give her that, but the, ah, quality just isn't there. 
Nice job, Jake. Lynn is still mortified. 
TAYLOR How many think Lynn oughta give me another shot? 
Most of the hands in the room shoot up. 
TAYLOR The ayes have it. 
LYNN (walking off again) You haven't changed at all, have you? 
TAYLOR I'm afraid I have or I wouldn't be here. C'mon, Lynn, I don't wanna do time for things that happened years ago. 
LYNN (turning back to him) I'm sorry, Jake. You'll always be the little boy who wouldn't grow up. 
Lynn starts off for her office door. 
Dorn and Harris are at one table; Taylor and Vaughn at one across the way. 
HARRIS Who you got lined up tonight? 
DORN Where are we? Kansas City, right? Gotta be Arlene 
HARRIS You call her? 
DORN Don't have to. She knows when I'm in town. 
TAYLOR AND VAUGHN 
TAYLOR I'm about ready to turn in. I've anesthetized my knees enough. 
A GUY from the bar approaches the table. 
GUY Excuse me, Mr. Vaughn, can I have your autograph? 
VAUGHN Ah... yeh... sure. (signing) My first autograph. I couldn't give these away a couple weeks ago. 
GUY I saw your record on the news. You made their Hall of Shame. Congratulations. 
VAUGHN (embarrassed) Thanks. 
TAYLOR You're a celebrity now, Vaughn. 
VAUGHN I thought you had to do somethin' good to be a celebrity. 
TAYLOR Not if you do it colorfully. 
DORN AND HARRIS 
DORN (pointing to the door) What'd I tell ya. 
We GO TO the door to find ARLENE standing with two friends, RENE and VICKI. ARLENE is a looker alright, 27, and seriously built. She cases the room, spies Dorn and comes over to his table. 
ARLENE Hi, Rodger. This is Vicki and Rene. 
DORN Hi, doll. This is Steve Harris. 
ARLENE Where's your buddy Gant? 
DORN (indicating Vaughn) They cut him to make room for bristle boy over there. 
ARLENE (looking over at Vaughn) Is that Vaughn, the guy they call Wild Thing? 
DORN (in disgust) Yeh. 
ARLENE He's kinda cute. They say he could be a big star. 
DORN What are you talkin' about? He couldn't find the plate if it was magnetized. He won't last the year. 
ARLENE He struck out five in a row before the wild pitches. (taking her leave) Maybe I'll check him out. 
DORN (grabbing her) Wait a minute, you're with me. 
Taylor watches this exchange from across the room. 
ARLENE I don't remember you makin' any date. 
DORN Since when do I have to make a date? Who's been showin' you this town the last three years? 
ARLENE Ancient history, Rodger. I gotta look out for myself now. I don't have to be a slave to no .235 hitter. 
ARLENE pulls away and heads for the jukebox as Dorn seethes. She punches a button and we hear X's version of "WILD THING." 
ARLENE sashays right up to Vaughn in time with the music. 
ARLENE Wild Thing, you make my heart sing. 
ARLENE knows how to make the big entrance. Vaughn's slightly overwhelmed. 
DORN 
taking this all in from across the room. Taylor comes up next to him. 
TAYLOR Guess we're over with, eh, Dorn? 
DORN Speak for yourself, Taylor. I got a couple good years left. 
INT. THE INDIANS' DC-3 - NIGHT 
We PICK UP Taylor in his seat, glasses on, reading something by the light of a flashlight rigged up to the back of his seat. We MOVE to reveal it -- the Classics Illustrated comic book of "Moby Dick." 
Hayes wanders by, an air-sick bag hanging around his neck. 
CLAIRE Here in Cleveland? I didn't know they still had a team. 
TAYLOR Yeh, we have uniforms and everything. It's really great. 
TOM (handing Jake his beer) They're last right now, but hopefully moving up, eh, Jake? 
Tom clinks his glass with Jake's beer, the slight condescension in his manner not lost on Taylor. Lynn is uncomfortable with this whole situation. Janice moves a bit closer to Taylor. It's obvious she finds him attractive. 
JANICE I'm told that baseball players make very good salaries these days. 
TAYLOR That depends on how good they are, I guess. 
JANICE How good are you? 
Lynn is irritated by Janice's directness. 
TAYLOR I make the League minimum. 
Tom and the others react as if Taylor's just announced a death in the family. 
LYNN He was one of the best in baseball until he had problems with his knees. 
Everyone is somewhat surprised by Lynn's quick defense of Taylor, including Lynn herself. 
TOM What are you going to do when your career ends? I mean you can't play baseball forever, can you? 
TAYLOR Somethin'll come up. 
TOM Will it? 
TAYLOR I don't know, I was thinkin' of goin' to Hawaii, and having a couple of kids who grow up to be Olympic champions. 
JACK Oh really. In what event? 
TAYLOR Swimming. Maybe the two hundred meter Individual Medley. I figure it oughta be big by then. 
Jack just nods. He never heard of it. 
BRENT You got the girl picked out? 
TAYLOR I did, but I wasn't smart enough to hold on to her. 
Lynn's eyes drop to the floor. 
BRENT You used to be an athlete, didn't you, Lynn? 
LYNN (not wanting to pursue it) Yes. 
BRENT What did you do? 
LYNN (reluctant) Two Hundred Individual medley. 
TAYLOR Alternate on the '80 Olympic Team. 
A tense silence settles on the group. 
TAYLOR Well, I gotta be goin'. Nice to have met you all. 
Taylor exchanges a quick glance with Lynn and heads for the door. 
TOM Let me walk you out. 
Tom accompanies Taylor to the door, out of earshot of the others. 
TAYLOR Thanks for the beer. 
TOM Don't mention it. 
TAYLOR I'll let you know if I land a good job. I know you're concerned about it. 
TOM Yeh, well, I just wanted Lynn to know what she would've had ahead of her. 
Tom sticks out his hand. The two men shake to keep up appearances for their onlookers across the room. 
TOM Stay away from her. 
TAYLOR (smiling) Suck my dick. 
INT. VAUGHN'S ROOM - DAY 
Vaughn and Hayes are watching a soap opera on an old black and white TV. Pepper pops his head in. 
PEPPER Lou wants to see you down at the office, Rick. 
Vaughn looks somewhat apprehensively at Hayes. 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
VAUGHAN 
Vaughn, wearing his new glasses, paces the mound nervously. He goes to the rosin bag, wipes his brow, shakes out his arm. Finally up on the rubber, he gets the sign from Taylor, goes to his stretch, checks the runner and fires to the plate. 
THE OAKLAND BATTER 
swings and hits a grounder between third and short. Dorn moves to his left, but the ball goes past his glove and into left field. There is some question as to whether Dorn really gave it a full effort. 
DOYLE (V.O.) Bouncing ball, Dorn can't get to it, into left field, base hit. Clarke digging around second, he'll make it to third, and the A's have runners at the corners. 
Vaughn stomps around on the mound, obviously upset. He glares at Dorn a beat before getting back on the mound. Dorn's face is non-commital. Brown paces in the dugout. 
PEPPER You want me to go get him? 
BROWN No, he's come this far. Let's see if he can finish it. 
Doyle downs a little more rum and coke in the press box. 
DOYLE Vaughn in a little trouble here, but I'll tell ya, these Cleveland fans are great. Listen to them get behind Vaughn. 
Doyle imitates the sound of a crowd cheering with his own voice, punctuated by whistles and clapping. 
THE BLEACHER BAND 
Thelma calmly knits her blanket with the scores of all the Indians' games stitched into it, the Madame La Farge of Cleveland. The boys, however, are a little restless. 
BOBBY We need some defense here. Maybe we oughta do a wave. 
JOHNNY C'mon, Indians don't do waves. Let's keep this thing pure. 
VIC What harm could it do? 
REXMAN 
The next Oakland hitter, steps in. Taylor flashes a sign. Vaughn comes to the stretch and delivers. High, ball one. The runner on first goes down to second without a throw, the pitch being too tough to handle. 
DOYLE (V.O.) Runner goes, high, Taylor has no play. The go-ahead and potential winning run is in scoring position. 
Taylor walks out in front of the plate to throw the ball back to Vaughn. 
TAYLOR Forget the runners, Ricky, get this guy at the plate. 
Taylor goes back behind the dish. Vaughn gets up on the rubber. He winds and comes to the plate. Way high this time. 
DOYLE High ball two, and the crowd doesn't like that call one bit. 
Doyle imitates the sound of a crowd booing. Taylor, meanwhile, has gone out to the mound. 
TAYLOR Okay, let's get nasty here, Rick. You know he's lookin' for this pitch. Gotta come up with somethin' studly. 
VAUGHN Fuckin' Dorn. Game shoulda been over by now. Dorn coulda had that ball. He tanked it on purpose. 
TAYLOR This isn't the California Penal League, Vaughn. We're professionals here. We don't tank a play for personal reasons, so cut the crybaby shit. You've pitched a helluva game. You wanna finish it, don't ya? 
Vaughn nods. 
TAYLOR Can you give me a strike on this pitch? 
VAUGHN Yeh, but I don't know if there'll be much on it. My arm feels like jello. 
TAYLOR Just make sure it's over the plate. I want him to swing. 
VAUGHN The last time I did that, the guy hit one that hasn't landed yet. 
TAYLOR Don't worry, I'll take care of it. 
Taylor starts back toward the plate, and then stops. 
TAYLOR By the way, I been meaning to ask you. Why'd you steal that car? 
VAUGHN I was bored. 
TAYLOR Next time you might think about takin' in a movie or somethin'. 
Vaughn permits himself a little smile and release from the tension. Taylor smiles back, and trots off toward the plate. 
THE BLEACHER BAND 
Bobby and Vic are doing a two-man wave. When one sits down, the other stands up. 
TAYLOR 
has settled in behind the plate now. He starts talking to the batter, Rexman. 
Harris shouts over from the showers where he's just turned on the water. 
HARRIS Hey, there's no hot water in here. 
BROWN She's at it again. I've had it with this nickel and dime stuff. (storming out of the training room) I'm gonna get the Bitch on the phone. 
Brown is stopped short by the sight of Rachel Phelps standing in the middle of the locker room as various unclad players dive for cover. 
RACHEL You wanted to see the Bitch? 
BROWN Yeh. 
RACHEL Don't you think you oughta cover yourself with a towel first, Mr. Brown? 
BROWN There aren't any towels, and I'm too old to be diving under benches. 
RACHEL Well, I can take it if you can. 
BROWN What happened to the new whirlpool we were supposed to get? 
RACHEL Revenue problems have forced us to cut back on equipment. We'll simply have to fix the old one. 
BROWN You fixed it six times already. And now there's no hot water in the showers. 
RACHEL The pipes in this building are old and rusted. We're replacing them, but it's a long, expensive process. 
BROWN How am I supposed to keep my players healthy with cold water and no therapy equipment? 
RACHEL Your players will just have to get a little tougher. What are they, a bunch of pansies? 
Immediately, 30 arms shoot up behind her in the Italian "up- yours" gesture. She turns around, but by then the players have quickly returned to normal positions. 
BROWN Over 162 games even tough guys get sprains, sore arms, muscle pulls... 
RACHEL It's only temporary. Besides, these guys weren't playing that good when the equipment was workin'. If I could get anybody to come and watch this team, none of this would be necessary. You oughta be grateful I can still pay your salaries. 
With that, Rachel turns and walks out. Brown and the others can only watch her go. 
CUT TO: 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
CUT TO: 
SPORTSCASTER ROSS FARMER 
On the air. 
FARMER In case you haven't noticed, and judging by attendance, you haven't, the Indians, that thought-to-be hopeless collection of has-been's and never-will-be's is actually approaching the .500 mark, and with it, semi-respectability. Nothing to write home about, to be sure, but at least we don't have to cover our eyes. 
INT. THE INJUN DINER - DAY 
Bobby, Vic and Johnny are at the counter. 
VIC Ya know, they could be a lot worse. 
INT. PRIVATE GYM - DAY 
The Business Executive is talking with a friend while working out on the Nautilus machines. 
BUSINESS EXECUTIVE Ya know, I may have underestimated this team a bit. 
EXT. THE CLEVELAND DOCKS - DAY 
The two Longshoremen again. 
LONGSHOREMAN Ya know, these guys aren't so fuckin' bad. 
EXT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL STADIUM - DAY 
The two Groundskeepers are repairing the pitcher's mound. 
GROUNDSKEEPER (in subtitles) They're still shitty. 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
OMIT 
HAYES Yeh. 
INT. INDIAN EXPRESS - NIGHT 
The bus slows down and pulls over to the curb. 
DRIVER This is it. The Sheffield Arms. 
The players all crowd to the window to get a glimpse of their hotel. Hotel is actually overstating it. This place is one cut below the YMCA. 
BROWN I don't know if we can survive any more of these economy measures. 
INT. THE SHEFFIELD ARMS - DAY 
We pick up Taylor, Hayes and Vaughn coming into their dilapidated hotel room. Peeling walls and ceilings, rickety furniture, rusted bathroom fixtures. Taylor sprawls down on one of the cots. It collapses on the floor in a cloud of dust. 
EXT. YANKEE STADIUM - DAY 
Vaughn is on the mound warming up. 
DOYLE (V.O.) So, Ricky Vaughn, roughed up in his only other appearance against the Yankees, will see what he can do with the Bronx Bombers this time. Vaughn, after a slow start, has come on lately and now leads the American League in strikeouts with 221. 
Vaughn finishes his warmups. As Taylor pumps the ball down to second, Vaughn hears a voice from the Yankee dug-out. 
VOICE Hey, jailbird! 
Vaughn glances over and sees that one of the Yankees is dressed in a striped prison uniform. He also wears long earrings, high heels, and of course, glasses. Vaughn tries to ignore the guy, but his concentration is broken. 
Vaughn steps up on the rubber for his first pitch. He winds and fires. The Yankee LEADOFF HITTER rips a one-hopper to the wall in right center. Hayes runs it down and guns it back to the infield to hold the guy to a double. The convict whoops it up. 
Vaughn gets back up on the rubber. As he comes to the stretch, he catches sight of the convict again. The guy is doing a pantomime, sneaking up to a car and picking the lock, much to the delight of his teammates. Vaughn throws his pitch in the dirt and all the way to the backstop. The runner on second goes to third. 
TAYLOR (throwing the ball back) C'mon, Rick baby, settle down. 
Vaughn gets ready again. The convict finishes picking the lock and then is suddenly arrested. He puts his hands against the wall and spreads his legs for a weapons check, cracking up the whole bench. Vaughn is getting a little steamed. His next pitch is hammered into left for a single, scoring a run. 
THREE SHOTS OF VAUGHN 
throwing pitches, followed by: 
SHOTS 
of the THIRD HITTER lining a double down the right field line, the FOURTH HITTER a triple off the center field wall, and the FIFTH HITTER a single to right. The scoreboard now reads 4 to 0 Yankees. Taylor comes out to talk to Vaughn. 
TAYLOR What's the problem, Rick? You're throwin' basketballs up there. That guy in the dugout botherin' you? 
VAUGHN Naw, I'm all right. 
TAYLOR Forget him. Worry about the guys carryin' bats. C'mon, Ricky, let's get nasty. 
Vaughn nods as Taylor trots back behind the plate. 
Vaughn gets set again as his old nemesis, Haywood, steps into the batter's box. Haywood has a sly smile on his face. 
As Vaughn comes to his stretch, the convict goes back into his act. He's in jail now, struggling against the bars. Finally he bends over and grabs his ankles, while one of his teammates humps up against him, pretending to bugger him. This sends the Yankee bench into hysterics. 
Vaughn has lost it now. He fires to the plate and Haywood creams another tape measure job into the upper deck. Hayes doesn't even bother to run back to the wall. He just watches it go. 6-0 Yankees. 
BROWN I thought now that Vaughn had some control, he was ready for the Yankees. 
PEPPER Not quite yet. 
Brown makes his way to the mound to take Vaughn out. 
DOYLE (V.O.) So, Vaughn pitches in some tough luck here as the Yankees put together as few squib hits and take a 6-0 lead. 
DOYLE 
in the press box. The stadium below is empty, the grounds crew covering the infield. 
DOYLE Well, the Indians made a gallant comeback today, but fell one run short as the Yankees held on for a 6- 5 victory, although they didn't do squat after the first inning. Anyway, if the bus makes it here from the hotel we'll be on at 7:30 tomorrow night. Till then, this is Harry Doyle, saying so long, everybody, and Happy Hunting. 
INT. THE HOTEL BAR - NIGHT 
Brown is alone in the bar having a drink. A figure sits down on the stool next to him. It's Donovan. 
DONOVAN Mind if I join you? 
BROWN (surprised to see him) Donovan. Hell no. What are you doin' here? 
DONOVAN Just wanted to get out on the road. You damn near pulled one out today. 
BROWN Someday we'll figure out how to beat those guys. 
DONOVAN Ya know, you've done a helluva job this year. 
hitting one rocket-shot ground ball after another at Dorn. Some bounce off his chest and arms, but Dorn stays in front of every one. 
DORN 
taking off his shirt in the locker room. His chest is a mass of welts and bruises. 
CERRANO 
"polishing" his bats with black shoe polish and a brush. 
TAYLOR 
taking batting practice late at night. He attacks the ball swing after swing. 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
VAUGHN 
taking his stretch with a man on first, and firing to the plate. The Batter swings and misses for strike three, while the Runner on first breaks for second. TAYLOR rifles a throw down to second nailing the Runner for a double play. 
DORN 
taking a hot smash off his chest. He picks it up and guns the runner down. 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
HAYES 
stealing home, as the opposing Pitcher tries frantically to hurry his windup. Hayes slides across safely, hooking to the infield side. He jumps up and punches the air with his fist. 
HAYES 
nailing up the pair of black gloves he used to steal home above his bed. 
NEWSPAPER HEADLINE 
"INDIANS WIN FIFTH STRAIGHT, CRACK FIRST DIVISION" 
EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
Ross Farmer, microphone in hand, stands in front of a blazing bonfire. A large crowd cheers as various people throw doormats on the blaze. 
FARMER (to TV camera) You remember bra burning in the '70's, well, the newest thing in Cleveland is doormat burning as Indian fans are standing up and saying "We won't be stepped on anymore". 
THREE QUICK SHOTS OF VAUGHN 
blowing fast balls by hitter. 
RACHEL 
with Donovan next to her, watching all this good play in disgust. 
AN ANGEL HITTER 
lining a single to center. Cerrano charges it and fires to the plate as a Runner tries to score from second. Just as Taylor catches the ball, he's once again knocked flat by the Runner. This time he lies still a beat, and then an arm comes up holding the ball. 
The Umpire thumbs the Runner out. 
TAYLOR 
late at night, sitting head-down in the outboard motor whirlpool. He's hurting. 
EXT. CLEVELAND DOWNTOWN STREET -DAY 
We PICK UP three Teenage Girls walking down the street wearing T-shirts that say WILD THING--I THINK I LOVE YOU. A Black Kid comes by wearing black gloves on each hand. As he passes, he holds up one finger signifying Number One. The Girls return the signal. 
EXT. EXECUTIVE'S OFFICE - DAY 
The Business Executive passes his secretary's desk, gives her some instructions, and goes into his office. As soon as he's out of sight, she opens her drawer and slips the earplug from a portable radio into her ear. OVER, we hear the Indians' BROADCAST. 
THE EXECUTIVE 
inside his office. He opens his desk drawer and pulls out an earplug. He's also listening to the game. 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
live outside the Indian's locker room. He wears a headdress, warpaint, and a Wild Thing T-shirt. 
FARMER Good evening, everybody. The incredible has happened. The Indians have finished the regular season in a first place tie with the New York Yankees on the strength of a 4-2 win over the Tigers in Detroit today. There will be a one-game playoff here in Cleveland the day after tomorrow to decide the Eastern Division Championship, the Indians having won the coin flip held just moments ago in the American League office. We'll have further details on the news at 11, but for now, get your tomahawks ready, Cleveland. 
CLOSEUP - A PIECE OF LEOPARD SKIN FABRIC 
We hear cheers as it's ripped away to reveal the photographic image of Rachel's cleavage. We PULL BACK to see the life- size poster is now completely peeled. Rachel stares out at us in a G-string and tassels. The photo is obviously from her showgirl days. 
General merriment prevails in the locker room. Players shaking hands, back slapping, etc. Hayes comes by to exchange congratulations with Taylor. MUSIC and MONTAGE END. 
HAYES Hey, not bad for a has-been and a never-will-be. 
TAYLOR We haven't won anything yet. We still got one more to go. 
Dorn comes by Taylor's locker. 
DORN Hey, Taylor, there's a coupla drop- dead Annies outside. One of 'em says she used to know you pretty good. Brunette, great rack... 
TAYLOR Darla. 
DORN Yeh. What doya say we chat 'em up? 
TAYLOR (without much enthusiasm) I don't know... 
DORN C'mon, you're not gonna keep moonin' over that library chick, are you? Forget her, she's gone. 
We leave Taylor thinking it over. 
INT. DORN'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Suzanne Dorn is watching the 11 o'clock news. HAL CHARLES is holding forth. 
CHARLES The Indians are spending the night in Detroit and will bus back to Cleveland in the morning. We're going to go back now to Ross Farmer who's standing by at the Hotel Stanley where the Indians are staying in Detroit. Ross? 
The scene shifts to... 
THE LOBBY OF THE STANLEY HOTEL 
where Ross Farmer stands, microphone in hand. Behind him several players can be seen partying in the bar. 
FARMER Thank you, Hal. As you can see, the Indians are in high spirits tonight, looking forward to their showdown with the Yankees. Who will start that game is still a matter of some conjecture. 
As Ross talks, Dorn walks INTO THE FRAME in the far background with his arm around a YOUNG LOVELY. They're nuzzling and hugging, unaware they're on camera, albeit in the background. Suzanne doesn't miss it though. She moves closer to the screen to get a better look. 
Dorn and the Girl get in an elevator together, obviously going upstairs. As the elevator closes, Suzanne hits the off button. She sits there a second in shock, and then her face begins to harden. 
INT. TAYLOR'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Taylor and DARLA are undressing, preparatory to getting into bed. They are definitely no strangers to each other. 
DARLA You still got that black Corvette? The one that the sound system took up the whole trunk? 
TAYLOR No, I had to sell it. 
DARLA I thought they gave them to ya. 
TAYLOR Not after your knees go bad. 
DARLA That's all right, you'll be gettin' a new one now. 
Darla is down to her bra and panties. She puts her leg up on the bed to unhook her stockings. Taylor is about to take off his pants, but stops. 
TAYLOR Darla, I don't think I can do this. 
DARLA What do you mean? We did this between innings once. 
TAYLOR I guess I'm just not that guy anymore. 
Darla looks at him a long beat. 
DARLA (resigned) Happens to the best of them sooner or later. What's her name? 
EXT. HALL OUTSIDE TAYLOR'S ROOM - NIGHT 
The door opens and Darla comes out, fully clothed now. She turns to say goodbye to Jake, who is still bare-chested. 
DARLA So long, Jake. Too bad. I was gonna devote a whole chapter to you in my book. 
As Darla gives Jake a goodbye peck, the elevator door opens across the hall, and out steps Lynn. She's obviously rattled by the sight of Taylor and Darla together. 
LYNN Excuse me. I was in town for a conference and thought I'd drop by, but I can see you're busy... 
With that she quickly steps back into the elevator and the doors close. 
TAYLOR Lynn, wait... 
Vaughn is sitting on his bed in a state of disbelief. 
VAUGHN I swear to God I didn't know who she was. 
Taylor nods that it's all right even though he doesn't believe it. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
THE LIMO 
pulling up outside the church. Lynn is helped out of the car by her Father. As she starts up the steps, she sees that both sides are lined by the entire Cleveland Indians team in uniform. They form an arch of bats as she passes. At the top of the steps is Taylor. Lynn stops as her father ushers her mother on into the church. 
TAYLOR You look beautiful. 
LYNN Thank you. I didn't think you'd come. 
TAYLOR I can't stay. (indicating the team) We gotta get to the park. 
LYNN Good luck today, Jake. 
TAYLOR Yeh, you too. (pause) Tell me one thing. The night you came up to my hotel -- was there really a library conference? 
LYNN No, I came to see you. 
TAYLOR Too bad it didn't work out better. I just wanna say I'm sorry for all the things I've put you through over the years. 
LYNN Even for last night? 
TAYLOR Can't be sorry for that. Nothing happened. 
He says this with absolute conviction. Despite herself, Lynn senses that he's telling the truth. 
LYNN Then you weren't defending my honor again? 
TAYLOR I didn't have to. She knew she was outclassed. 
Lynn smiles. He gives her a kiss and watches as she goes inside. He stands there a long beat, then turns and walks slowly down the steps past his teammates. 
INT. RACHEL PHELPS' OFFICE - DAY 
Rachel is looking out at the empty stadium. There's a KNOCK at the door. 
RACHEL Come in. 
The door is opened by a Male Secretary and in steps Lou Brown. 
RACHEL Hello, Lou, what can I do for ya? 
Lou puts a folded piece of paper on her desk. 
BROWN I wanted to hand in my resignation before you had a chance to fire me. 
RACHEL What do you mean? 
BROWN I know what you been tryin' to do with this team. After the season, I want no part of it. 
RACHEL Well, I knew I could count on Charlie to tell somebody. I was just afraid he might take too long. 
BROWN Why would you want him to tell somebody? 
RACHEL So you'd tell the team, hopefully getting them mad enough to knock themselves out trying to prove they belonged in this league. I think it worked. 
BROWN You tryin' to make me believe you wanted us to win all along? 
Rachel nods. 
BROWN Bullshit. What about the plane, the bus, the bad hotels... 
RACHEL We were broke. We couldn't afford anything better. Donald left the team nearly bankrupt. If we'd had another losing season, I would have had to sell the team. I knew we couldn't win with the team we had, so I decided to bring in new players and see how they'd do with the proper motivation. There was never any offer from Miami. I made it all up. 
BROWN Why should I believe any of this? Now that we're winnin' it's easy for you to jump on the bandwagon. 
RACHEL If I'd really wanted you to lose, all I had to do was send the best players back to the minors. But I didn't, did I? 
Brown has no comeback for this. He knows now that she's telling the truth. 
RACHEL You think this was all an accident? I personally scouted every member of this team, except Hayes, of course. He was a surprise. They all had flaws which concealed their real talent, or I wouldn't have been able to get them. But I knew if anyone could straighten them out, you could. And if you tell them any of this, I will fire you. 
Brown can only shake his head at this whole thing. 
RACHEL I love this team, Lou. Go get 'em tonight. 
Throwing the first pitch. The YANKEE HITTER grounds one to Dorn who throws him out. 
THE SCOREBOARD 
0-0 in the 3rd. 
CERRANO 
striking out on a curve ball. 
HAYES 
robbing a Yankee of a home run by making a leaping catch over the fence. 
TAYLOR 
picking a Yankee runner off first. 
THE SCOREBOARD 
0-0 in the 5th. 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
CERRANO 
striking out on a curve ball, trying to check his swing. Umpire emphatically punches him out. 
DOYLE 
Looking past him to the field. Harris is on the mound. There's a runner on second. 
DOYLE Still nothing -- nothing, top of the seventh, two down. Harris has been in trouble all night, but has battled his way out with the help of some great defensive plays. 
Harris comes set and delivers. The Yankee hitter, BURTON, (L) swings and gets all of it. 
DOYLE (V.O.) Uh oh, this one's tagged. Deep center field. Way back. Way back. 
Hayes climbs up on the wall, but it's long gone. Home run. 
DOYLE (V.O.) It's off the reservation, home run. And the Yankees lead it 2-0. 
RACHEL'S BOX (INSERT STORYBOARD # 209G) 
RACHEL Shit. 
Donovan is a little confused by this. 
Burton trots around the bases and is greeted by jubilant teammates at the plate. A silent pall falls on the stadium. As the "2" goes up on the scoreboard, we... 
CUT TO: 
HAYES 
popping up and flinging his bat away in frustration. We take CUTS of the worried fans, chewing fingernails, wadding up programs, hanging their heads, etc. 
TAYLOR 
grounding out, obviously having trouble running. We take CUTS of worried faces on the bench. 
DORN 
stepping into the batter's box. The crowd is practically sitting on its hands now. Hope draining away. 
DOYLE (V.O.) Dorn up now, two down, bottom of the seventh. The Indians running out of chances. 
Dorn swings at the first pitch and lines a sharp single to left. The crowd and the Indian bench suddenly come alive. Cerrano moves to the plate. 
DOYLE (V.O.) That'll bring on Cerrano, hitless tonight. As a matter of fact, he hasn't touched the ball yet. 
The crowd and bleacher band begins to clap as Dorn takes his lead. Cerrano swings at the first pitch and misses. An audible groan goes through the crowd. 
The Yankee pitcher gets set again, and throws Cerrano a big, roundhouse curve. He misses it a foot. Strike two. 
BROWN Damn, havin' trouble with the curve ball again. 
HAYES We should've gotten him a live chicken. 
Cerrano steps out and begins to talk to his bat, gesturing and pointing as if arguing with his wife. 
CERRANO I pissed off now, Jo-Buu. I good to you, I stand up for you. If you no help me now, I say fuck you, Jo-Buu. I do it myself. 
Cerrano gets back in the box and digs in. The Yankee pitcher comes to his stretch and delivers. Another big breaking curve ball. Cerrano swings and knocks the crap out of it. Everyone in the stands and on the bench jumps to their feet, rooting for the ball to get out. 
TAYLOR All right, Ricky, let's get nasty. 
Vaughn winds and delivers a hissing blur toward the plate. Haywood takes a ferocious swing and misses. Strike one. 
We see the number 97 come up on the digital readout of the SPEED GUN which a club employee holds behind the screen. 
TAYLOR (to Haywood) All right, looks like the boy is pumped. Sucker was movin', wasn't it? Ever hit ya, it'd leave a two foot hole comin' out. 
Taylor gets ready to flash another sign. The convict jumps up and down trying to distract Vaughn. No way. 
TAYLOR (for Haywood's ears) Let's see, what should we call now. Let's see how he feels about old number one. 
Taylor puts down one finger. Vaughn nods and then winds and fires again, another blazing rocket. Haywood takes a wicked rip, but doesn't get it. Strike two. 99 comes up on the gun. The convict has stopped jumpin'. 
TAYLOR Nice swing, Haywood. Good follow- through. Keep it up, I'll show you the ball sometime. 
The fans are going wild. They're all standing now, yelling for a strikeout. Vaughn gets back up on the rubber with the look of an animal sighting prey. Taylor gets down to give the sign. 
DUGOUT (INSERT STORYBOARD # 216R) 
BROWN Forget the curveball. Go with the heater. 
TAYLOR Well, shit, all these pitches to choose from. Maybe we'll try somethin' different this time. 
Taylor wiggles his fingers around and then puts down the big No. 1. Vaughn gives him a quick nod. 
TAYLOR And if I don't see you again, Haywood, have a nice winter. Okay, buddy? 
Vaughn goes into his windup and unleashes a screaming bullet toward the plate. Haywood pulls the trigger, but it's already by him. Strike three. 101 on the gun. Taylor leaps up and gives Vaughn the fist. The fans are going berserk. MUSIC ends. 
DOYLE (V.O.) Oh, Lordy, three straight heaters and the Yankees are blown down. No runs, two hits, three left on, and, are you ready, Cleveland? We go to the bottom of the ninth, still tied at two. 
Doyle turns the mike off. 
DOYLE (to his color man) Can you believe this, Monty? 
Monty takes a big swig straight from the bourbon bottle. 
OMIT 
Sequence omitted from original script. 
ANOTHER INDIAN HITTER 
grounding out to short. 
HAYES 
walking up to the plate. 
DOYLE (V.O.) Two down in the ninth, Hayes steps in hitting .291, trying to get something going for the Tribe. 
Taylor and the others yell encouragement to Hayes as he digs in at the plate. The Yankee pitcher delivers and Hayes hits a high bouncer toward short. The shortstop waits for it to come down and then fires to first. Too late. Hayes streaks across the bag, beating the throw by a hair. Once again the CROWD comes to life. 
The Yankee Manager comes to the mound and waves for a new pitcher. 
DOYLE (V.O.) And Horton is wasting no time. He's goin' to the Duke. 
Out of the pen comes BILLY DUKE, a good facsimile of Goose Gossage only Duke is bigger and meaner. 
(INSERT STORYBOARD #219M) 
DOYLE Duke leads the league in saves, strikeouts per inning and nose hairs. 
The Duke finishes his warmups and stares over at Hayes. Hayes smiles, snaps his black gloves out of his hip pocket, and carefully pulls them on over his hands. 
The Duke does not care for this kind of showmanship. 
Brown comes over to talk to Taylor, who's been watching Duke from the on-deck circle. 
BROWN Ya know I'd be an ass not to pinch- hit for you here. You're 0 for 18 against Duke. Plus you're beat to shit you can hardly walk, there's no way you can get around on this guy's fast ball. So I want the absolute truth here. Can you beat this guy? 
TAYLOR Yeh. 
BROWN Okay. 
Taylor starts for the plate, as Duke finishes his warmups. Brown comes down the dugout steps. 
BROWN (to Pepper) Send Hayes the first pitch. I don't want Taylor takin' too many strikes. 
Pepper begins flashing signs out to Hayes. Duke gets up on the rubber and takes his stretch. Hayes leads away, crouching low. Duke snaps a throw over to first, the first baseman slapping a hard tag on Hayes, but Hayes is back. 
The crowd is on its feet again. The "GO" chant starts, punctuated by thousands of black-gloved hands punching the night air. 
Duke comes set again. Hayes leads away. Duke watches him, checks him again. We go to SLOW MOTION as Duke kicks and comes to the plate. 
