The Man Who Wasn't There 
"THE MAN WHO WASN'T THERE" 
BY 
Ethan Coen & Joel Coen 
Black. 
ED (V.O.) Yeah, I worked in a barbershop. But I never considered myself a barber... 
We track back from a barber's pole. 
ED (V.O.) ...I stumbled into it--well, married into it more precisely... 
We track back from a shopkeeper's bell triggered by an opening door. The pull back and tilt down show the top of the head of a customer entering in slow motion. 
ED (V.O.) ...I wasn't my establishment. Like the fella says, I only work here... 
We track along a shelf backed by a mirror and holding pomade, aftershave, hair tonic, a whisk brush. 
ED (V.O.) ...The dump was 200 feet square, with five chairs, or stations as we call 'em, even though there were only two of us working... 
We track in on a big man in a barber's smock scissoring across a lock of hair that he pulls taut between two fingers of one hand. In slow motion, he laughs and chats. 
ED (V.O.) ...Frank Raffo, my brother-in-law, was the principal barber. And man, could he talk... 
Another man in a barber's smock is running electric clippers across a child's head. A cigarette between his lips. 
ED (V.O.) ...Now maybe if you're eleven or twelve years old, Frank's got an interesting point of view, but sometimes it got on my nerves. Not that I'd complain, mind you. Like I said, he was the principal barber. Frank's father August--they called him Guzzi--had worked the heads up in Santa Rosa for thirty-five years until his ticker stopped in the middle of a Junior Flat Top. He left the shop to Frankie free and clear. And that seemed to satisfy all of Frank's ambitions: cutting the hair and chewing the fat. Me, I don't talk much... 
He plucks the cigarette from his mouth and taps its ash into a tray. 
ED (V.O.) ...I just cut the hair... 
LATE IN THE DAY 
The barbershop is empty of customers. Late sun slants in through the front window. The two barbers--the narrator and his brother-in-law--sit in two of the barber chairs, idly reading magazines. 
FRANK Says here that the Russians exploded n A-bomb and there's not a damn thing we can do about it. 
ED Uh-huh. 
FRANK How d'ya like them apples? 
Beat. 
FRANK ...Ed? 
ED Huh? 
FRANK Russians exploded an A-bomb. 
ED Yeah. 
FRANK (shaking his head) Jesus... 
ED (V.O.) Now, being a barber is a lot like being a barman or a soda-jerk; there's not much to it once you've learned the basic moves. For the kids there's the Butch, or the Heinie... 
We cut to examples of the haircuts as they are ticked off: 
ED (V.O.) ...the Flat Top, the Ivy, the Crew, the Vanguard, the Junior Contour and, occasionally, the Executive Contour. Adults get variations on the same, along with the Duck Butt, the Timberline... 
Ed trims the fringe around a balding head. 
ED (V.O.) ...and something we call the Alpine Rope Toss. 
He snips one long lonely strand of hair and carefully drapes it across a bald pate. 
ED (V.O.) ...I lived in a little bungalow on Napa Street. The place was OK, I guess; it had an electric ice box, gas hearth, and a garbage grinder build into the sink. You might say I had it made. 
We float slowly toward a white bungalow on a quiet street as a black coupe pulls into the driveway. 
BATHROOM DOORWAY 
It is evening. Ed leans against the bathroom doorjamb contemplatively off, hands thrust into his pockets, a cigarette between his lips pluming smoke. 
ED (V.O.) Dry cleaning... 
The reverse show Doris soaking in the tub, reading a magazine. 
ED (V.O.) ...Was I crazy to be thinking about it? Was he a huckster, or opportunity, the real McCoy? 
Ed takes the cigarette from his mouth, exhales. 
ED (V.O.) ...My first instinct was, no, no, the whole idea was nuts. But maybe that was the instinct that kept me locked up in the barbershop, nose against the exit, afraid to try turning the knob. What if I could get the money? 
DORIS Honey? 
ED Mm. 
She lifts one leg and rests the heel on the rim of the tub. 
DORIS Shave my legs, will ya? 
Ed saunters over, perches on the tub and puts the cigarette back in his mouth to free his hands. He picks up a bar of soap and starts soaping the leg. 
He sets down the soap and picks up a safety razor. 
The razor takes long slow strokes along the lather, dark bits of hair flecking the white foam. 
ED (V.O.) ...It was clean. No water. Chemicals. 
He shakes the razor in the tub. Shavings float away across the soap-slicked water. 
DORIS (absently, as she reads) Gimme a drag. 
Ed pulls the cigarette from his mouth between two fingers, uses the two fingers to flip it over, and holds it for Doris as she sucks. 
He brings the cigarette, now marked with lipstick, back to his own mouth. She murmurs: 
DORIS ...Love ya, honey. 
A DOOR 
We hear a voice, muffled through the door, breaking into laughter. 
A hand enters to knock. 
VOICE Yeah, come in. 
The door swings open to show Creighton in his shirtsleeves sitting on the bed, talking on the phone. A tray of room- service dishes sits near him. 
He is bald; his hairpiece sits on the pillow next to him. 
CREIGHTON (into the phone) OK... yeah. I'll see you tomorrow. 
He hangs up, looks quizzically at Ed. 
CREIGHTON ...Oh, I thought you were the porter... Can I help you? 
Ed stands awkwardly by the door. 
ED ...I'm, uh, Ed. 
The stranger's look does not show recognition. 
ED ...Ed Crane. Remember? Today? 
CREIGHTON Sorry, friend, I, uh, you got me at a disadvantage. 
ED I'm, uh, I'm--the barber. 
CREIGHTON Jesus! The barber! I'll be a sonofagun. Why didn't you say so? 'Course--the barber. 
Ed nods, his smile faint and forced. 
ED Frank. 
FRANK Huh? 
ED This hair. 
FRANK Yeah. 
ED ...You ever wonder about it? 
FRANK Whuddya mean? 
ED I don't know... How it keeps on coming. It just keeps growing. 
FRANK Yeah--lucky for us, huh, pal? 
ED No, I mean it's growing, it's part of us. And we cut it off. And throw it away. 
FRANK Come on, Eddie, you're gonna scare the kid. 
Ed shuts off the clippers and give the apron a flap. 
ED OK, bud, you're through. 
The kid hops down, still reading his comic, and ambles out the door. Ed gives Frank a considering stare. 
ED ...I'm gonna take his hair and throw it out in the dirt. 
FRANK What the-- 
ED I'm gonna mingle it with common house dirt. 
FRANK What the hell are you talking about? 
Ed turns back to the counter to hang up his clippers. 
ED I don't know. Skip it. 
EXT. ED'S HOUSE 
It is twilight. Ed lifts the latch on the front gate and, cigarette in his mouth, heads up the walk. 
Music filters out from the house. 
INT. ED'S HOUSE 
Ed walks though the living room, hands in his pockets. The music emanates from a radio in the bedroom. 
DORIS Ed? 
A track forward reveals Doris sitting at a vanity, doing her hair. Her dress is half zipped at the back. 
DORIS ...Gimme a zip. 
Ed walks over behind her. 
ED Where you going? 
DORIS Me? Us! The party at Nirdlinger's--I told you last week, for the Christmas Push. 
ED Yeah, right. 
We are close on the zipper as Ed's hand takes the tab, pauses, the lowers it slightly. Her back blooms through the dark fabric of the dress. 
He slides the zipper up, and Doris reaches for a perfume atomizer. 
DORIS Come on, get ready. It's important. 
ED Nah, go ahead. I'm not big on parties. 
DORIS Oh, don't be a grump. 
SALES FLOOR 
DAVE ...I've, uh... Oh, Jesus. I've been carrying on with a married woman. Uh, no one you know. And now the, uh-- what is it they say?--the--the--the chickens are coming home to roost. 
Ed awkwardly holds the two burning cigars. 
ED Uh-huh. 
DAVE Hell, I, I'm not proud of it. But, uh, that's not the worst of it. I got a note. A blackmail note. You know, come across or everybody knows. 
ED Uh-huh. 
DAVE Well, you know what that would do to me. 
ED I guess it would be pretty awkward. 
DAVE Awkward?! Ann'd throw me out on my keister! Hell, it's her family's store--*her* store. I serve at the indulgence of the goddamn ownership, Ed. 
ED Uh-huh. 
DAVE I only work here! And the lady's husband would know... Oh, Jesus. 
ED How much to they want, Dave? 
DAVE $10,000! I don't know what to do, Ed. I don't know what I *can* do. Even though I know who the sonofabitch is. 
ED ...You know... who *who* is? 
DAVE The sonofabitch. The blackmailer. It's, uh, it's no one you know. It's a businessman from Sacramento. A goddamn pansy, Ed. He tried to rope me into some crackpot scheme; I heard him out and then told him to go to hell. And the very next day, the very next day, Ed, I get blackmailed for the same amount. 
ED Would he... it sounds pretty obvious. 
DAVE Well, I guess he don't care that it's obvious. 
ED Mm. How, uh... how did he know that-- 
DAVE He's staying at the hotel I've gone to with, uh, with the lady in question. Must've seen us. 
Big Dave blows his nose, reaches to take his cigar from Ed. 
DAVE ...Thanks... 
He exhales with a long sigh. 
DAVE ...Oh, Jesus. 
ED ...Why don't you just pay him, Dave? 
DAVE That's my capitalization on the Annex! *My* operation, Ed! Christ almighty. That's what I was just talking to Doris about, a way of getting the money from the store that we could hide from Ann. 
ED Mm. 
DAVE Embezzling, Ed. From my own goddamn wife! 
He give a tearful chuckle. 
DAVE ...Doris, she was pretty hot about that. God bless her. She doesn't know I'm telling you this--she's mad enough already. But Jesus, Ed, you're the only one I can talk to. I'm, I'm sorry I... I better get back to the party. 
He rises and clears his throat as he rubs the tears from his face. 
DAVE ...I look all right? 
PULLING ED 
He has left the office to wander through an adjacent room lit only by spill from the party. It is the music department; pianos and spinets are arranged across the floor. 
ED (V.O.) In a way I felt bad for Big Dave. I knew the ten grand was going to pinch him where it hurt... 
Ed sits on a piano stool next to a standing ashtray. He takes out a cigarette, lights it off his cigar, stubs out the cigar. 
ED (V.O.) ...But Doris was two-timing me and I guess, somewhere, that pinched a little too. 
His attention is caught by a distant knock of wood. Someone is raising the key-guard on a piano across the room. 
The person can only be seen only obscurely, from three- quarters behind, through the sales floor's jumble of haphazardly arranged instruments. The person begins to play. 
ED Mm. 
They ride in silence for a beat. Doris shakes her head. 
DORIS ...What a knucklehead. 
STREET 
As the car roars past and into the distance. 
ANOTHER STREET 
It is day. We are looking from inside a parked car toward a hotel entrance. Big Dave emerges from the hotel, gets into a Packard and drives off. 
ED (V.O.) Big Dave did it, though... 
Ed, sitting in his car, is watching. 
ED (V.O.) ...I sent a note telling him where to drop the money... 
HOTEL HALLWAY 
Ed emerges from a stairwell and goes to a standing ashtray by the elevator. 
ED (V.O.) ...and he did. He came across. 
Ed reaches into the trash hole in the ashtray column and pulls out a Nirdlinger's bag. 
He goes back to the stairwell. 
ANOTHER FLOOR 
Ed emerges from the stairwell, goes to a door and knocks. 
The door swings open. 
CREIGHTON Yeah, good, how are ya, come in... 
Ed follows him into the room. 
CREIGHTON ...You bring a check? 
ED Cash. 
CREIGHTON Cash?! 
He gives Ed a look. 
CREIGHTON ...Usually we do this kind of thing with a bank draft. But cash--that's fine--it's all the same in the end-- dough's dough, huh? 
ED Sure. 
CREIGHTON I got the paperwork here. Partnership papers here, they reflect our agreement: fifty-fifty on the net, I supply professional services, you supply the capital. I'll give you a receipt on the dough there, huh? 
ED Yeah. 
CREIGHTON Pretty straightforward, but I don't know if you wanna show this stuff to a lawyer-- 
ED It's OK. 
CREIGHTON Yeah, screw 'em, huh? Pay 'em to tangle it up and then you pay 'em to untangle it, what's the point? 
He perspires as he counts the money. 
CREIGHTON ...Just a second here, I'll give you a receipt on the, uh... Whoa, Nellie... Oh, by the way, we didn't talk about this, I, uh, I think I'm gonna call the place Tolliver's, after me, you know, I didn't think you were much interested in, uh-- 
ED That'll be fine. 
CREIGHTON Yeah, good. Lemme just, uh... 
He wipes his brow, finishes counting. 
CREIGHTON ...Yeah, that's it. As per our discussion. 
ED OK. 
WOMAN (to Doris) He's a barber, right? It's a good trade. So how come you got no kids? 
PICNIC TABLE 
A group of kids pulls Frank, laughing, by the hand toward a picnic table set out with pies in a row. 
VOICES Uncle Frankie's gotta join! Wait for Frankie! 
FRANK No, come on, kids--I just ate lunch! 
VOICES No, no--Uncle Frankie's gotta join! 
An old man stands by with a stopwatch. 
OLD MAN Ready... 
He clicks the timer. 
OLD MAN ...Go! 
Frank and the line of children plunge their faces into the line of blueberry pies. 
The other picnickers cheer them on. 
ELSEWHERE 
Ed and Doris approach the innocent-looking young couple accepting congratulations. 
Doris, holding her empty glass, is not a happy drunk: 
DORIS 'Gratulations, Gina. It's so goddamn wonderful. 
ED Congratulations, Gina. 
DORIS Life is so goddamn wonderful, you almost won't believe it. 
ED Honey... 
DORIS It's just a goddamn bowl of cherries, I'm sure. 
Ed tries to lead her away. 
ED Honey... 
Doris calls back over her shoulder: 
DORIS Congratulations on your goddamn cherries! 
As Ed and Doris recede we hear her petulant: 
DORIS ...Leggo my goddamn elbow. 
ELSEWHERE 
In a long shot we see Frank at the crest of a hill, staggering slowly, painfully, toward a tree. In his right hand he clutches a trophy. 
When he reaches the tree he swings his free hand up against it, leans forward, and vomits. 
CAR 
Late afternoon, driving home. 
Ed drives. Doris sits in the front passenger seat, snoring lightly. Frank sits in the back seat hugging his trophy to his chest, eyes closed, murmuring: 
FRANK I never wanna see another blueberry pie... 
Silence. 
FRANK ...I never even wanna hear those words. 
Doris moans. 
DAVE ...I'm ruined. 
His hands writhe on the desktop. 
DAVE ...It ruined me. This money. No annex. I'm all shot to hell. 
ED So you paid the guy? 
Big Dave stares without speaking. 
After a long beat: 
DAVE ...What kind of man *are* you? 
ED ...Huh? 
DAVE What kind of man *are* you? 
ED Big Dave-- 
DAVE I'd understand if you'd walked in here. Socked me in the nose. Whatever. I deserved it. 
ED I, uh... 
DAVE I'm not proud of what I did. But *you*. 
No one talks. 
Big Dave sighs. 
DAVE ...Yeah, I paid up. As you well know. And then I went and found the pansy. 
He looks at Ed. 
DAVE ...Got nothin' to say, huh? Yeah, well, you already know the story. I didn't, I hadda beat it out of the pansy. *Your* money. 
No response. 
DAVE ...What kind of man *are* you? 
Big Dave rises. 
DAVE ...Well. 
He crosses around the desk and adds, sadly: 
DAVE ...I'm all shot to hell. 
Ed starts to rise, but Big Dave is already looming over him. Big Dave bear-hugs him and then spins him into a wall. 
Ed hits the wall and bounces off, back into Big Dave. Big Dave wallops him in the stomach. Ed doubles over. 
DAVE ...What kind of man *are* you? 
Big Dave hurls him against the desk, then slams his face against the desktop. Ed's hands scrabble at the top of the desk as Big Dave grabs him by the neck and lifts. He slams him face-first into the window between the office and the dark sales floor. 
Ed twists around, the back of his head now pressed against the glass. Big Dave's hands lock around his throat. 
Big Dave sweats and strains. 
A crack shoots up the pane of glass. 
Ed's hand sweeps up and plunges something into Big Dave's neck. 
Big Dave grunts and turns away, gurgling. His hands go up to his throat. 
Ed watches. He is holding Big Dave's cigar trimmer. 
Big Dave takes a couple of deliberate steps backward, his head twisted away. 
He falls back, tripped up by a chair, which spins him face- down onto the floor. 
Big Dave crawls away face-down across the floor, on his knees but with his hands still at his throat. His face and knees awkwardly support his weight as if he were pushing something across the floor with his nose. 
BIRDY OK. Nice to see you, Mr Crane. 
They watch her go back in. 
WALTER Damnit! She's a good kid. 
Ed nods. 
A beat. 
ED ...So, uh, who should I-- 
WALTER Well, there's Lloyd Garroway in San Francisco. Probity--you know, no one ever said anything iffy about Lloyd Garroway. Conservative. Jury might like that. Might like that here. 
He takes a sip of his drink. 
WALTER ...Probity. 
ED Uh-huh. Is he the best then, for, uh... 
WALTER Well, the best, the money-is-no-object best, for a criminal case, any lawyer would tell you Freddy Riedenschneider. Out of Sacramento. 'Course, I don't know how you're fixed for money. 
ED Uh-huh. He's the, uh... 
WALTER Yeah, the best. 
He sniffs. 
WALTER ...Yeah, Riedenschneider. Wish I could tell you more. Hell, I wish I could handle it myself. But I'd be absolutely worthless for this kind of thing. 
He takes a musing sip. 
WALTER ...Criminal matter? Freddy Riedenschneider. 
He thinks. 
WALTER ...No question about it. 
ED AT A TABLE 
It is a long table with chairs stretching down both sides, one side for prisoners, the other for visitors. The room is empty except for a guard and an elderly woman who sits across from a younger woman at the far end of the table. The younger woman, in a prison smock, is wailing. The elderly woman is holding her hand. 
Ed sits across from an empty chair, clutching a flower-printed toiletries kit. There are echoing voices suggesting large spaces outside the room. 
He sits and waits. 
Approaching footsteps. 
The door opens. A large prison matron steps aside to let Doris enter. 
Doris looks lost in a prison-issue jumper that is too big for her. Her hair is uncurled and bedraggled. Not only is she not made-up, she has a couple of bruises and a cut on her lip. 
As Ed stands, she gives a hollow look around. 
ED Honey... I brought your make-up. 
She looks at him. 
DORIS Honey. 
ED How are you? 
She shrugs. 
DORIS I don't know what's going on. I-- 
ED What happened to you? 
She shakes her head. 
DORIS ...I don't know what happened to Big Dave. I know some of it. Irregularities in my books, they said. Can I explain it. 
ED You don't have to-- 
The man looks dubiously at Ed. 
MAN Mr...? 
ED Crane. Ed Crane. 
MAN You also have an interest in the securing property? 
FRANK He's a barber. 
MAN Ah. 
FRANK Second chair. 
MAN Not an owner. 
FRANK No, he's family, he's my brother-in- law. 
MAN Ah-hah. It would be best if he waited here. 
He goes to the glass-paned doorway to his office, Frank trailing dejectedly behind. They enter, the door closes, and we hear their muffled voices from inside, the sense of the words lost. 
Ed sits and watches the two men perform their pantomime of business: Frank nervously reads documents with one hand cupped to his forehead for concentration; the banker passes successive documents across his desk with a word of explanation for each as Frank signs. 
Ed takes out a cigarette and lights it, watching impassively. 
ED (V.O.) The barbershop. Doris and Frank's father had worked thirty years to own it free and clear. Now it got signed over to the bank, and the bank signed some money over to Frank, and Frank signed the money over... 
TRACKING POINT OF VIEW 
It is midday. We are tracking along the sidewalk toward a long cream-colored Packard parked at the curb. A couple of kids have stopped to peer into the car's windows; the car is no doubt the fanciest in town. 
ED (V.O.) ...to Freddy Riedenschneider, who got into town two days later... 
Ed, coming up the sidewalk, looks up at the storefront: a restaurant with a large window with a plush red drape that obscures the interior. Gilt lettering on the window spells out "DaVinci's". 
ED (V.O.) ...and told me to meet him at DaVinci's for lunch. 
TRACKING POINT OF VIEW 
Inside the restaurant. We are tracking toward a table whose lone occupant sits with his back to us holding open a menu as he orders from a facing waitress: 
MAN ...not fried, poached. Three of 'em for two minutes. A strip steak medium rare, flapjacks, potatoes, tomato juice, and plenty of hot coffee. 
He flips the menu over. 
MAN ...Do you have prairie oysters? 
WAITRESS No, sir. 
MAN Then bring me a fruit cocktail while I wait. 
He looks up at Ed. 
MAN ...You're Ed Crane? 
ED Yeah-- 
MAN Barber, right? I'm Freddy Riedenschneider. Hungry? They tell me the chow's OK here. I made some inquiries. 
ED No thanks, I-- 
The waitress sets a fruit cocktail in front of Riedenschneider. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER Look, I don't wanna waste your time so I'll eat while we talk. Ya mind? *You* don't mind. So while I'm in town I'll be staying at the Hotel Metropole, the Turandot Suite. Yeah, it's goofy, the suites're named after operas; room's OK though, I poked around. I'm having 'em hold it for me on account of I'll be back and forth. In addition to my retainer, you're paying hotel, living expenses, secretarial, private eye if we need to make inquiries, headshrinker should we go that way. We'll talk about appeals if, as and when. For right now, has she confessed? 
ED No. Of course not. She didn't do it. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER Good! That helps. Not that she didn't do it, that she didn't confess. Of course, there's ways to deal with a confession, but that's good!--one less thing to think about. Now. Interview. I'm seeing her tomorrow. You should be there. Three o'clock. One more thing: you keep your mouth shut. I get the lay of the land, I tell *you* what to say. No talking out of school. What's out of school? Everything's out of school. I do the talking; you keep your trap shut. I'm an attorney, you're a barber; you don't know anything. Understood? 
ED ...OK. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER Good! Any questions give me a ring-- Turandot suite; if I'm out leave a message. You sure you don't want anything? No? 
Ed is puzzled: 
ED Yes? 
ANN We went camping last summer. In Eugene, Oregon. *Outside* of Eugene, Ed. 
She gives him a searching look, hoping, it seems, that he will find this significant. 
ED ...Yes? 
ANN At night, there were lights--we both saw them. We never told anyone, outside of our official report. 
ED Ann-- 
ANN A spacecraft. I saw the creatures. They led Big Dave onto the craft. He never told anyone what they did, outside of his report. Of course he told *me*. No one else. 
ED Ann-- 
ANN The government knows. I cannot repeat it to you. But this thing goes deep, Ed. This was not your wife. I goes deep, and involves the government. There is a great deal of fear. You know how certain circles would find it--the knowledge--a threat. They try to limit it, and-- 
ED Ann, will you come in, sit down, maybe have a drink? 
ANN Sometimes knowledge is a curse, Ed. After this happened, things changed. Big Dave... he never touched me again. 
Ed says nothing. 
She touches his arm. 
ANN ...Tell Doris not to worry. I know it wasn't her. Perhaps this will bring it out, finally. Perhaps now it will all come out. 
She turns and heads down the walk. 
Her high-heeled footsteps echo on the walk, then the sidewalk, then are lost in the rustle of leaves. 
Ed watches her go: a small black figure, growing smaller. 
PRISON MEETING ROOM 
It is an unadorned room with a simple wooden table and chairs. One high window lets in a shaft of sunlight. 
Ed and Doris sit at the table; Freddy Riedenschneider stands to one side staring up at the high window, hands dug into his pockets. 
All three are motionless for a long beat. Finally: 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER ...It stinks. 
DORIS But it's true. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER I don't care it's true, it's not true; it stinks. You say he was being blackmailed; by who? You don't know. For having an affair; with who? You don't know. Did anyone else know about it? Probably not; you don't know. 
ED I knew about it. Big Dave told me about it, and the spot he was putting himself in by getting the money. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER Terrific. Your husband backs you up. That's terrific. 
He starts pacing. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER ...You've gotta give me something to work with. Freddy Riedenschneider is good, but he's not a magician. He can't just wave his little wand in the air and make a plausible defense materialize. Look. Look at what the other side is gonna run at us. They got the company books, prepared by you--*cooked* by you--that's Motive. They got a murder scene *you* had access to. That's Opportunity. They got that little trimmer thing he was stabbed in the throat with--a *dame's* weapon-- 
ED It was Big Dave's. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER --don't interrupt me--that's Means. They got a fine upstanding pillar of the business community as a victim, and then they got *you*, a disgruntled number-juggling underling who on the day in question was drunk as a skunk and whose alibi for the time in question is being passed out at home, alone. 
ED *I* was with her. 
Riedenschneider gives him a hard look. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER ...Like I say, it stinks. 
Another long pause. 
ED ...I killed him. 
Riedenschneider eyes him. Wheels start turning. 
ED (V.O.) ...disappeared into thin air, vaporized, like the Nips at Nagasaki. Gone now. All gone. The money gone. Big Dave gone. Doris going. How could I have been so stupid? 
The continuing pull-back reveals Walter Abundas on a nearby chair, also listening as Birdy plays. 
Walter holds a drink in one hand; he is nodding; his eyelids droop. As the piano piece reaches its mournful conclusion his chin alights on his chest, his eyelids tremble closed, and he starts lightly to snore. 
BARBERSHOP 
The distinctive buzz of electric hairclippers bangs in at the cut. Ed and Frank stand behind their respective chairs, administering haircuts. 
The customer in Ed's chair is in white shirtsleeves that do not hide rolls of fat. He has a hot towel over his face that does not slow his speech, although it does muffle it to some extent: 
CUSTOMER She makes this stuff, she calls it gatto, it's got egg in there, it's got sugar, it's got--it's cake, basically, except she calls it gatto. Like if you don't call it cake maybe you won't put on any weight, like I need to eat gatto, you know what I'm saying? This stuff, if I've had a square meal, I've had my steak and potatoes, I can just have another cup of coffee afterward, I won't ask for the desert if it's not there... 
His voice turns into a drone under the narration. 
ED (V.O.) Sooner or later everyone needs a haircut... 
CUSTOMER Got the recipe from a magazine, woman's magazine... 
ED (V.O.) We were working for the bank now. We kept cutting the hair, trying to stay afloat, make the payments, tread water, day by day, day by day... 
CRANE DOWN 
Inside a courtroom we boom down toward the defendant's table, the fat customer's drone turning into the drone of the bailiff reading an indictment. Doris stands next to Freddy Riedenschneider. 
ED (V.O.) Most people think someone's accused of a crime, they haul 'em in and bring 'em to trial, but it's not like that, it's not that fast. The wheels of justice turn slow... 
BAILIFF ...did willfully and with malice aforethought take the life of one David Allen Brewster, a human being... 
ED (V.O.) They have an arraignment, and then the indictment, and they entertain motions to dismiss, and postpone, and change the venue, and alter this and that and the other. They empanel a jury, which brings more motions, and they set a trial date and then change the date, and then often as not they'll change it again. 
BAILIFF What say you to these charges? 
Our boom down has ended close on Doris. We hear Freddy Riedenschneider, off: 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER We plead not guilty, your honor. 
BARBERSHOP 
Booming down toward the fat man. 
ED (V.O.) And through all of it we cut the hair. 
CUSTOMER I say, Honey, if you're gonna make a cobbler, make a little bit of cobbler, don't put a whole pan in front of me and tell me it's not gonna be any good when it's cold... 
OPERA SINGERS 
We are panning photographic portraits of opera singers in character, wearing the wardrobe of different eras, armies, dukedoms, and boudoirs, and displaying the heights and depths of various emotions, their mouths stretched wide in song. We pan off the pictures to discover that we are in a hotel room, floating in toward a bed on which Freddy Riedenschneider, a mask over his eyes, slumbers. 
ED (V.O.) ...Meanwhile, Freddy Riedenschneider slept at the Metropole... 
RESTAURANT 
Tracking in toward Freddy Riedenschneider, who sits twirling spaghetti with a fork against a spoon. 
ED (V.O.) ...and shoveled it in at DaVinci's. 
LATERAL TRACK 
From inside a car. Pedestrians bustle along a sidewalk. Among them scurries a weedy little man who has one hand clamped to the crown of his hat to keep it in place in a stiff wind. 
ED (V.O.) He'd brought in a private investigator from Sacramento... 
LATERAL TRACK 
Moving the opposite way. A different day, but again a crowd moves along the sidewalk, and among them the little man scuttles in the opposite direction, hand still raised to his hat, his forearm and the tilt of his head largely obscuring his face. 
ED (V.O.) ...to nose around into Big Dave's past. 
PUSHING IN TO ED 
In the Abundas living room again, again listening to Birdy at the piano, but now the two of them are alone. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER And now it turns out this dope spent the war sitting on his ass in some boatyard in San Diego. You asked for blackmail, let me give you blackmail: Mr Hale-Fellow-Well-Met, about to open his own business here, has been lying to everybody in this town for the last four years, probably including half the people sitting on that jury. Well, it finally caught up with him--these dopes, it always does; someone threatened to spill it. Somebody knew his dirty little secret, just like your wife says. They called, they demanded money... 
He is looking at Doris. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER ...Did Big Dave mention that it was something about his war service? I don't know, I wasn't there, *you'll* have to tell *us*. Maybe he specified, maybe he didn't; I'm not putting words in your mouth; the point is that this liar, this cynical manipulator, this man who through his lies sneered and belittled the sacrifice and heroism of all our boys who *did* serve and bleed and puke and die on foreign shores, and who made a fool out of this entire town, turns to *you* to help him out of his jam. Fat-assed sonofabitch! 
ED So... who... who actually-- 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER Who? *Who?!* I don't know who! But the point is that if Mr Prosecutor over there had devoted half the time he's spent persecuting *this* woman to even the most cursory investigation of this schmoe's past, then we might *know* who! But we can't *know* what really happened! Because of Fritz, or Werner, or whatever the hell his name is! And because Me Prosecutor is *also* a lazy fat-assed sonofabitch who decided it's easier to victimize your wife! Because it's easier *not* to look! Because the more you look, the less you know! But the beauty of it is, we don't *gotta* know! We just gotta show that, goddamnit, *they* don't know. Reasonable doubt. Science. The atom. *You* explain it to me. Go ahead. Try. 
He chuckles as he heads for the door. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER ...Yeah, Freddy Riedenschneider sees daylight. We got a real shot at this, folks. Let's not get cocky. 
The door shuts behind him. 
Doris stares down at the table, as at the head of the scene. 
A silent beat; a smile starts to tug at the corners of her mouth. 
ED Honey...? 
The smile twitches, and then stays. Doris starts to laugh. Ed frowns. 
ED ...Honey? 
Her laughter builds, almost to hysteria. Finally it subsides and, still staring at the tabletop and smiling, she shakes her head: 
DORIS What a dope. 
ABUNDAS LIVING ROOM 
Ed sits listening as Birdy plays. She talks, after a moment, her eyes on the sheet music: 
BIRDY He was deaf when he wrote this. 
ED Who? 
BIRDY Beethoven. He created it, and yet he never actually heard it. I suppose he heard it all in his head, somehow. 
Over her continued playing: 
ED (V.O.) So maybe Riedenschneider could get Doris off. Maybe it would all work out. And I thought--I hoped--that maybe there was a way out for me as well... 
A SIGN 
The cardboard sign on an easel says "COME ONE, COME ALL / PETALUMA HIGH SCHOOL TALENT SHOW / WEDNESDAY APRIL 29, 1949, 8:00 P.M. 
ED (V.O.) The girl had talent, anyone could see that. And *she* wasn't some fly- by-nighter, she was just a good clean kid... 
SCHOOL GYMNASIUM 
A young man holding a saxophone is just leaving the makeshift stage to a smattering of applause. Birdy walks out to the baby grand that has been set out center stage. 
ED (V.O.) ...If she was going to have a career she'd need a responsible adult looking out for her... 
We track up the rows of folding chairs that have been set out on the gym floor for the audience of students and parents, many of whom fan themselves with programs. We come to rest on Ed. 
ED (V.O.) ...some kind of... manager. She'd have contracts to look at, be going on tours, playing on the radio maybe. I could help her sort through all of that, without charging her an arm and a leg, just enough to get by... 
Birdy begins to play for the quietly attentive audience. 
EXT. SCHOOL 
Ed is among the crowd streaming from the gym into the warm summer night. He looks around the parking lot. 
ED (V.O.) ...I could afford to charge less than the usual manager, not having to put up a big front like a lot of these phonies. And I could be with her, enough to keep myself feeling OK... 
A trace of a frown as he spots her leaning against a car, laughing, passing a cigarette back and forth with another student--a boy. 
ED (V.O.) ...Why couldn't that work?... Why not?... 
Birdy's easy smile remains as Ed approaches, but the boy's drops; he puts on a face more suitable for meeting adults. 
DWIGHT Whuh--uh, yeah, sure Ed, take your time. 
BAR 
It is late afternoon, dusty and empty. 
Ed and Diedrickson sit on adjacent stools, Diedrickson cocking his hat lower to its man-sitting-at-a-bar position. 
As the bartender approaches: 
DIEDRICKSON Rye. 
ED Just coffee. 
DIEDRICKSON You sure you don't want something stiffer? 
Ed shrugs and shakes his head. 
BARTENDER Coffee it is. 
He leaves. Diedrickson interlaces his fingers on the bartop and stares at them. After a beat: 
DIEDRICKSON ...County M. E. does an autopsy on anyone who dies in custody. I don't know if you knew that. It's routine. 
Ed doesn't answer. Diedrickson, after some more staring at his hands, plows on: 
DIEDRICKSON ...Doesn't become a matter of public record unless there's foul play. However. I don't believe I'm *prohibited* from telling you this. I guess I'm not obliged to tell you, either. I don't exactly know.  But if *I* were the man, I'd want to be told. 
ED Told what? 
DIEDRICKSON I, uh... thanks. 
The bartender has set down the drinks. 
Diedrickson waits for him to leave. He takes a hit from his glass. Finally: 
DIEDRICKSON ...I'm sorry to add to your burden, Crane, but I'd want to know it it was me. Your wife was pregnant. First trimester. 
A pause. 
DIEDRICKSON ...Well, there it is. 
Another pause. 
DIEDRICKSON ...I'm sorry. 
He mutters to himself: 
DIEDRICKSON ...Hell, I hope I've done the right thing. 
ED My wife and I had not... performed the sex act in many years. 
Diedrickson stiffens. 
DIEDRICKSON (murmuring) ...Jesus. (aloud) ...Well, that's not really my business. 
He is hastily digging for money. 
DIEDRICKSON ...I'm sorry. Well, there it is. 
He leaves a couple of bills on the bar and mumbles as he leaves: 
DIEDRICKSON ...Good luck, Crane. 
His retreating footsteps echo down the bar. 
APARTMENT HALLWAY 
It is a dingy hallway lit by bare bulbs. Ed stands in the middle background, knocking on a door. 
ED (V.O.) Doris and I had never really talked much. I don't think that's a bad thing, necessarily. But it was funny: now I wanted to talk--now, with everyone gone. I was alone, with secrets I didn't want and no one to tell them to anyway. 
The door opens and Ed is admitted by the unseen tenant. 
ED Yeah. 
BIRDY We've certainly missed you. 
ED Birdy, I've been doing a lot of thinking. There are a lot of things that haven't worked out for me. Life has dealt me some bum cards... 
He is loading a cigarette into his mouth. 
ED ...or maybe I just haven't played 'em right, I don't know. But you're-- 
BIRDY Pop doesn't like people smoking in here. 
Ed stares. This takes a moment to register. 
ED Oh. Sorry. 
Birdy lowers her voice: 
BIRDY Sometimes I have a cigarette in here when he's away. Never when he's in the house. He can smell it a mile off. 
Ed is pocketing the cigarette. 
ED Sure... Sure, it's his house. 
BIRDY That's what he keeps telling me. 
Ed smiles thinly. 
ED Anyway, uh... my point is you're young. A kid really, your whole life ahead of you. But it's not too soon to start thinking... to start making opportunities for yourself. Before it all washes away. 
BIRDY Well, sure, I guess. Pop says so too. I work pretty hard at school. 
ED That's swell. However, the music, if you want to pursue it, well, the lessons from Mrs Swan, they'll only take you so far. There's this guy in San Francisco, I've made inquiries, everybody says he's the best. Trained lots of people who've gone on to have big concert careers, symphony orchestras, the works. His name is Jacques Carcanogues. I'm not sure I'm pronouncing it right. Anyway, he's a Frenchman. 
BIRDY Boy. 
ED You've got talent, anyone could see that. And he's the best. If he thinks a student has talent, he'll take 'em on for next to nothing. You're a cinch to be accepted, I could cover the cost of the lessons, like I said, it's pretty modest-- 
BIRDY Oh, Mr Crane-- 
ED I have to do it. I can't stand by and watch more things go down the drain. You're young, you don't understand. 
BIRDY Geez, Mr Crane, I don't know. I hadn't really thought about a career or stuff. 
ED I know you haven't. Look, just go meet him as a favor to me. I talked to this guy. Hope I pronounced his name right. He sounded very busy, but he's not a bad egg; he loosened up a little when I told him how talented you are. He agreed to see you this Saturday. He said maybe you were a diamond in the rough. His words. 
BIRDY Geez, Mr Crane. 
ED Just see him, as a favor to me. 
STUDIO WAITING ROOM 
It is a small square room with straightbacked chairs set against the walls. At the far end of the room a door leads to a studio from which piano music dully emanates; it is a fast and difficult piece of music. 
Ed sits waiting. He is the only adult; two or three youngsters of different ages sit apparently waiting for their lessons. 
Ed looks at one of the waiting boys in a white shirt and bow tie. He is perhaps eleven. His hair is greased back in a Junior Contour. 
Another boy, in a cardigan sweater, sports a Butch. 
The piano piece is ending. There is the murmur of voices. Dull footsteps. 
The studio door swings open. 
A small man in a rumpled black suit smudged with cigarette ash is bowing Birdy out the door. He has a goatee and a knotted foulard. His eyes flit over the waiting room and settle on Ed. 
CARCANOGUES ...You are ze fahzer? 
ED No. Uh... family friend. 
MAN I am Carcanogues. 
He smiles at Birdy. 
ED He didn't say that. 
BIRDY But more or less. 
ED Look, I'm no expert, but-- 
BIRDY It doesn't matter, Mr Crane. 
ED I'm sure there's a dozen teachers better than this clown. More qualified. Goddamn phony. 
BIRDY But it doesn't matter. Really, I'm not interested in playing music professionally. 
Ed looks at her. 
BIRDY ...I'm not certain I'll have a career at all, and if I do, I'll probably be a veterinarian. 
ED ...Uh-huh. 
BIRDY I do appreciate the interest you've taken, though. 
ED Ah... it's nothing. 
BIRDY I'm only sorry that I didn't play better for you. I know it would've made you happy. You know what you are? 
ED Huh. 
BIRDY You're an enthusiast. 
ED Huh. Yeah. Maybe... 
He loads a cigarette into his mouth. 
ED ...I guess I've been all wet. 
BIRDY But I do appreciate it, Mr Crane... 
She reaches over to touch his thigh. 
BIRDY ...I wanted to make you happy. 
ED Birdy-- 
BIRDY It's OK... 
She is leaning over his lap. 
BIRDY ...I want to do it, Mr Crane. 
Ed is shocked: 
ED Birdy! 
He reaches awkwardly, wanting to push her away but not wanting to be violent. 
ED ...No, please. 
BIRDY Please, Mr Crane, it's OK, please-- 
The blare of an oncoming horn. 
Ed looks up, one hand struggling with Birdy, the other on the wheel. 
The oncoming car. 
Ed swerves, tires screech into a skid, Birdy screams. 
CRASH: the car hits a roadside tree. 
BLACK. 
ED (V.O.) Time slows down right before an accident, and I had time to think about things. I thought about what an undertaker had told me once--that your hair keeps growing, for a while anyway, after you die... 
A hubcap is skipping in slow motion along the road and then off the road, down an embankment. 
Ed sits, smoking. 
At length he rises and goes in to the house. 
INT. BUNGALOW 
It is dim, no lights on yet. We hear banging and clomping from the kitchen. 
Doris emerges with a clinking sound, chasing ice cubes around a drink with a swizzle stick. Her face is still hard-set. 
With a groan of its old upholstery springs she sits onto the couch. 
Ed sits as well. He draws on his cigarette, drags an ashtray closer on the coffee table. 
She sips. He puffs. 
ED ...Doris-- 
DORIS Nah, don't say anything. I'm alright. 
The sit. The light is failing. The clink of ice cubes. 
FADE OUT 
In the black we hear machine noise of indistinct origin. As the noise becomes more defined we also hear shouting, faint, distant: 
VOICE Are you there? Are you awake? 
A blurry white disc is fading up. As it focuses it resolves into the reflector worn by a white-robed doctor, leaning in close. 
He leans away, murmuring: 
DOCTOR He's coming around. Can you talk, sir? These men have to talk. 
Ed is lying in a hospital bed. His face is bandaged and one side is grotesquely swollen. The machine noise is life support. 
DOCTOR ...Sir? Are you awake? He's awake. 
Two police officers, Persky and Krebs, lean in. 
PERSKY Are you awake?... Is he awake? 
KREBS Crane? We have to tell you, as soon as you're conscious--is he conscious? 
PERSKY His eyes are open. 
KREBS Uh... you're under arrest. 
PERSKY As soon as the doctor lets us, we gotta move you. Does he understand that? We're supposed to tell him. Are you conscious? 
KREBS You'll go to the prison hospital. 
PERSKY Under arrest for murder. 
Ed's speech is thickened by injuries and anesthesia: 
ED Birdy... I didn't mean to-- 
KREBS What'd he say? 
ED Birdy... 
DOCTOR Birdy. The girl. No, the girl's OK. Broken clavicle. 
The doctor leans in. 
DOCTOR ...That's the collarbone, Crane. Broken. She's OK though. 
KREBS So he understands? He's under arrest for murder? 
ED Big Dave. 
PERSKY Huh? 
The district attorney is pointing at Ed. 
DISTRICT ATTORNEY ...cynically used his own wife as a cat's paw in a scheme of diabolical cunning... 
ED (V.O.) On and on it went, how I'd used Doris and then let her take the fall. That stuff smarted because some of it was close to being true... 
The district attorney seats himself. The jury's eyes turn to Freddy Riedenschneider, who studies the tabletop in front of him, either digesting the D.A.'s opening statement, or seeking inspiration for his own. 
ED (V.O.) ...And then it was Freddy Riedenschneider's turn. 
Riedenschneider rises, paces, begins to talk. 
ED (V.O.) ...I gotta hand it to him, he tossed a lot of sand in their eyes. He talked about how I'd lost my place in the universe... 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER ...a puny player on the great world's stage... 
ED (V.O.) ...how I was too ordinary to be the criminal mastermind the D.A. made me out to be, how there was some greater scheme at work that the state had yet to unravel, and he threw in some of the old truth stuff he hadn't had a chance to trot out for Doris... 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER ...who among us is in a position to say... 
ED (V.O.) ...He told them to look at me--look at me close. That the closer they looked the less sense it would all make, that I wasn't the kind of guy to kill a guy, that I was the barber, for Christ's sake... 
We pan the jury, solemnly listening to Riedenschneider. 
ED (V.O.) ...I was just like them, an ordinary man, guilty of living in a world that had no place for me, guilty of wanting to be a dry cleaner, sure, but not of murder... 
Riedenschneider is striding energetically into the foreground to point a finger directly at Ed's face. 
ED (V.O.) ...He said I *was* Modern Man, and if they voted to convict me, well, they'd be practically cinching the noose around their own necks. He told them to look not at the facts but at the meaning of the facts, and then he said the facts *had* no meaning. It was a pretty good speech, and even had me going... 
A tap on the shoulder turns Ed around. 
ED (V.O.) ...until Frankie interrupted it. 
Frank socks Ed, sending him clattering to the floor. 
A bailiff immediately restrains him, but Frank looms over Ed, bellowing through tears: 
FRANK What kind of man *are* you? What kind of man *are* you? 
Riedenschneider interposes his body between Frank's and Ed's, loudly protesting: 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER Move for a mistrial, your honor! Move for a mistrial! This outrageous display cannot help but prejudice... 
Ed moves to get up, but Riedenschneider, with a sidelong glance and furtive gesture, motions for him to stay on the floor. 
RIEDENSCHNEIDER ...and inflame the passions of these twelve fine men and women... 
ED (V.O.) ...Well, he got his mistrial, but the well had run dry. There was nothing left to mortgage; Riedenschneider went home and the court appointed Lloyd Garroway... 
Ed is now standing next to a distinguished older gentleman who enters the plea in the new trial: 
GARROWAY Your honor, we plead guilty, with extenuating circumstances. 
ED (V.O.) ...who threw me on the mercy of the court. It was my only chance, he said. I guess that meant I never had a chance... 
The judge starts droning the sentence: 
JUDGE ...a menace to society... a predator on his own wife, his business associates, on an innocent young girl... social contract... line crossed... the offender forfeits the right to his own life... I hereby order that you be taken to a place of confinement... 
PRISON HALLWAY 
We are tracking down the hall. 
ED (V.O.) He wasn't buying any of that Modern Man stuff, or the uncertainty stuff, or any of the mercy stuff either. No, he was going by the book, and the book said I got the chair... 
Ed is in the cell at the end of the hall, lying on his bunk, hands clasped behind his head. 
ED (V.O.) ...so here I am. At first I didn't know how I got here. I knew step by step of course, which is what I've told you, step by step; but I couldn't see any pattern... 
LATER 
Ed sits at the little table next to his bunk, writing. 
