ARAMIS Still you serve him loyally -- though people hurl rotten eggs at his royal emblem. 
Aramis lifts d'Artagnan's cloak as evidence:  near its hem, sure enough, is the remnant of a broken egg. 
D'ARTAGNAN I see your mind is sharp as ever. The King said, "Right away."  Cut deep and hard, my friends. 
PORTHOS Deep and hard, D'Artagnan. 
D'Artagnan clasps Porthos' hand, then that of Aramis, and leaves, as Porthos shakes his head. 
PORTHOS We were all Musketeers once, eh?  Oh, I forgot.  For the poor, the ones you were praying for. 
He hands a purse to Aramis.  Surprised, even touched, Aramis reaches for it.  Just as he takes the money, Porthos throws a haymaker; but Aramis sees the sucker punch coming and ducks. Suddenly the two old warriors are circling again. 
PORTHOS I wonder how Athos is doing. 
INT.  A SMALL HOUSE - DAY 
ATHOS stands at the dressing table in a modest room; dressed in a dark plain coat, he too is a former Musketeer -- gray haired and handsome, intensely intelligent, with a hard crust of manners masking seas of emotion.  He opens a small wooden box and digs through medals of heroism; he finds what he's looking for just as his son RAOUL enters.  RAOUL is in his mid-twenties; he wears the uniform of a soldier in the French Army.  He is nervous, pacing, looking at every angle in the mirror. 
RAOUL Do I look all right? 
ATHOS None of the ladies will be able to take their eyes off you. 
RAOUL I care only about Michelle.  Should I ask her when we first arrive? Or... or when we're leaving?  I could ask her in the carriage -- but it is more romantic at the palace. I get so confused... 
ATHOS Perhaps this will help. 
He hands Raoul the simple gold ring he took from the box. 
RAOUL Mother's ring.  I can't take this. 
ATHOS She died giving you to me.  And I want to die knowing it is one the finger of the women my son loves. 
They embrace.  Athos' eyes mist, but he smiles. 
ATHOS Now go, and bring back your fiance. 
ESTABLISHING - THE ROYAL PALACE - DAY 
The Palace glows golden in the Parisian sunshine.  Carriages deposit guests for the lavish party in the royal gardens. 
EXT.  THE ROYAL PALACE - GARDENS - DAY 
Attractive young adults strut about in the extravagant attire of Louis XIV's France, the men like peacocks, the ladies in gowns that seem to squeeze their entire bodies up into their bosoms.  They laugh and smile and strike courtly poses pretending to talk with each other -- but all eyes are on the doorway, through which the king is about to come... 
JUST BEYOND THAT PALACE DOORWAY 
KING LOUIS the Fourteenth is having his wardrobe adjusted by a flock of tailors.  He is twenty-two, and would be quite handsome, except for the total self-absorption.  He's checking himself in a full length golden mirror as two of his advisors, PIERRE and CLAUDE, try to speak with him. 
PIERRE Your Majesty, I know it is a... a festive time, but before -- 
KING LOUIS The blue sash.  No, the burgundy! 
PIERRE ... before the party begins -- 
KING LOUIS The party has already begun -- so why are you delaying me? 
PIERRE We do not wish to delay you, Majesty, but... as your advisors, we feel it is our -- our -- 
CLAUDE ... our duty. 
PIERRE Yes!  It is our duty to let you know... there are riots in Paris. 
LOUIS Riots?  My people live in the world's most beautiful city, their king has the grandest palaces on earth.  Why should they feel anything but pride and contentment? 
PIERRE Well yes, of course, Majesty, and I'm sure they are content... except that... well, they are starving. 
LOUIS Sometimes the poor do grow hungry. But why would they riot about it? 
As he says this, a replica of the Matterhorn made of fruits and meringues is carried past the window by a team of chefs. 
PIERRE Majesty... We have more than enough food set aside for your birthday celebration next week.  If we distributed some of that, we would have time to gather more before -- 
LOUIS Aramis!  I have been expecting you! (to the tailors) We are satisfied, that will do. 
The tailors and advisors withdraw as Aramis -- still in his simple priest's robe -- strides forward and bows to the kind. 
ARAMIS Your birthday celebration, your Majesty? 
LOUIS Next week.  This is a mere garden party -- and I wish to join it, so I will be brief.  I am experiencing resistance from the Jesuits. 
ARAMIS Well... perhaps you should speak with them, your Majesty. 
LOUIS I have demanded it -- and common priests present themselves!  Can you imagine the arrogance?  Common Jesuit priests try to act as my equals, and they refuse to reveal the names of anyone else in their order!  No one can keep secrets like the Jesuits can, and the identity of their leader is the darkest secret they hold.  Even the Pope himself does not know who leads the Jesuit Order in France!  He suspects the Governor General of Jesuits, whoever he is, is angling to become Pope himself. 
RAOUL AND MICHELLE 
Michelle is amazed at this. 
MICHELLE I have never seen a diamond so large! 
It almost makes Raoul ashamed of the modest ring hidden in his hand. 
LOUIS Into the maze!  All of you! Disperse, I command you! 
The dwarf releases the pig, poking him through a tiny break in the hedge; the critter skitters as only a pig can, eluding the first laughing lunges of the guests. 
THE PIG CHASE is a merry melee, as the maze becomes a tangle of confusion.  LOUIS climbs to a platform above the top of the ten foot hedge that forms the maze.  From his perch he looks down on all the action, and calls encouragement. 
LOUIS Are you men or mice?! 
MICHELLE squeals as the pig scurries by and Raoul dives for it.  He almost has the pig... then it kicks free. 
RAOUL The pendant will be yours! 
With that he races after the pig. 
MICHELLE tries to follow, this way, that way, through the maze.  Then she stops, face to face with the King, entering through a gate hidden in one of the maze's dead corners. 
LOUIS Michelle, isn't it? 
Speechless, she nods. 
LOUIS I would have said it was impossible, but I believe the excitement of the chase has made you even more beautiful. 
MICHELLE Sire, I -- 
LOUIS You blush!  You do not wish to be beautiful to your King? 
Her eyes go still; she understands what is happening. 
FROM BEHIND THE GATE, we see d'Artagnan, watching as Louis tries to seduce the young woman.  Even as d'Artagnan watches, the pig comes rooting through the hedge; with a deft movement d'Artagnan catches the animal's leg and lifts it with the sureness of the farm boy he once was.  The pig is quiet and comfortable in d'Artagnan's hands. 
D'Artagnan watches as the King approaches Michelle, and she allows him to touch her cheek.  The king leans to kiss her... Michelle does not move... 
WHHEEEKKKK!  The pig sails over the gate and hits the ground running, right at Louis' feet; it sets him dancing. 
The spell of the king's royal attention is shattered; as the pig scrambles away, Michelle backs away. 
LOUIS Wait!  Michelle, I -- 
Too late, he sees the shadow of the man looming above him, leaping down onto him from the observation platform.  It is the servant who offered the tray to Raoul and Michelle; he has armed himself with a knife from the carving table, and is diving now to plunge the blade into the king's throat. 
The king is helpless, frozen.  The assassin leaps, falling toward the king... and is impaled on the sword of d'Artagnan, springing through the gate to save his king. 
Michelle screams, the king gasps, and the assassin drops, mortally wounded.  They stare down at him now; the would-be assassin gurgles words through his agony... 
ASSASSIN Feed... your... people. 
Party guests, having heard Michelle scream, are running in to find them.  Michelle rushes off, to find Raoul; several people are coming up. 
ASSASSIN Your people starve...!  Feed -- 
The king snatches out his own dagger and imperiously cuts the throat of the dying man, to stop these offensive words.  The king looks at his stunned subjects. 
LOUIS A pitiful madman, nothing more. Come, let us continue our chase! Where is our unicorn? 
The King prances away.  It takes the guests a moment, but they know that only gaiety will please their King, and off they go again, laughing as if nothing happened. 
D'Artagnan stands still as the young Musketeers under his command come rushing up with swords drawn. 
YOUNG MUSKETEER Captain! 
Seeing the dead assassin, their eyes fill with admiration. 
YOUNG MUSKETEER You are the best -- 
D'Artagnan can't even listen; with a last glance at the King he turns quickly and walks away. 
INT.  FORTRESS PRISON 
The Man in the Iron Mask sits on the floor.  A key rattles in the lock and his keeper shuffles in, carrying food. 
KEEPER Food, moron. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK Thank you, Keeper. 
Not watching what he's doing, the bulbous keeper trips on something and stumbles, dropping the food.  The prisoner jumps to his feet, concerned. 
KEEPER Look what you've done! 
ANNE And you were not hurt? 
D'ARTAGNAN No, M'lady. 
ANNE That is good. 
Without a change of expression on her still beautiful but sad face, she enters her room. 
INT.  D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM - EVENING 
D'Artagnan returns to his room, just as a young LIEUTENANT of Musketeers (Andre) arrives with two of the Royal Guards. 
LIEUTENANT Duty lists of the day, Captain! 
D'ARTAGNAN Thank you, Andre. 
They hand him the list and salute again, to leave. 
D'ARTAGNAN Wait.  There is an entry here -- "Messenger sent by King to residence of Mademoiselle Michelle Beaufort." Why was that? 
The young Musketeers try not to smirk. 
LIEUTENANT Well, Captain... 
INT.  ATHOS' APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Athos sits alone, playing a haunting melody on a violin.  It is a sad tune, played with feeling; he stops as he hears a KNOCK at his door, and opens it to -- 
ATHOS D'Artagnan! 
D'ARTAGNAN Athos, my friend! 
They embrace with deep affection -- friends who have shared each other's darkest times. 
D'ARTAGNAN It's been too long. 
ATHOS Life is too long.  Except when we have our friends.  Look at you! You're still a boy!  Sit, sit!  I'll open a bottle of wine. 
D'Artagnan takes one of the wooden chairs, by the meager fire.  The whole place is modest at best. 
D'ARTAGNAN Thanks, but not for me. 
ATHOS You can't drink with a friend you haven't seen in months? 
D'ARTAGNAN I have ordered a drill of the Royal Guard for midnight, and must be clear-headed for it. 
ATHOS Midnight!  Mon dieu!  Driving the youngsters hard, eh? 
D'ARTAGNAN They must stay sharp.  There was an attempt on the King's life today. 
ATHOS Another?  How many times have you saved his life in this year alone? Three?  Four? 
D'ARTAGNAN I heard your playing. 
ATHOS I was feeling sorry for myself. Raoul is getting married, he proposed today!  I love that boy beyond all measure, I've spent everything I own to give him education and opportunity.  Now he has complete happiness, and I mope. 
A cloud passes d'Artagnan's face; he has something to tell Athos. 
D'ARTAGNAN Athos... 
But whatever it is that d'Artagnan wants to say is interrupted by the sound of someone climbing the stairs.  As Athos' face brightened with the arrival of d'Artagnan, now it glows as he jumps up to welcome his son. 
ATHOS That must be Raoul!  Raoul!  Look, d'Artagnan's come to visit...! What's wrong?  You look awful! 
RAOUL Michelle, she -- The king has invited her to come live in the palace. 
Athos is stunned; d'Artagnan witnesses this with agony. 
ATHOS But -- are you sure? 
RAOUL We were at her door.  I was just taking the ring from my pocket, for the third time today, when a young Musketeer brought the invitation for her to become a lady-in-waiting for the Queen Mother. 
ATHOS Michelle cannot possibly accept! 
RAOUL She cannot possibly refuse.  Her family is poor, they have even less money than we do.  And along with the invitation, the King sent the diamond pendant, from the piglet. 
ATHOS Piglet -- ?  What are you -- ? 
RAOUL Never mind, Papa, it doesn't matter now.  She loved me once.  I want to die remembering that. 
ATHOS Die?  What...? 
RAOUL I have rejoined the army, and asked to resume my commission at the head of the troops of General Fromberge. 
ATHOS Fromberge...?!  At the front?!  No. 
D'ARTAGNAN Stop you?  You are Frenchmen, are you not?  I am one of you. 
RUFFIAN The King is a Frenchman, but he is not one of us! 
D'ARTAGNAN Citizens of Paris!  Give ear to me! 
RUFFIAN We'll give you their ears! 
With that he draws a dagger from his filthy shirt and puts it to the ear of the young Lieutenant who is already bloody from being dragged through the street. 
D'ARTAGNAN Wait -- and listen!  I beg you! 
RIOTER They give us garbage, not fit for rats!  They think we are garbage! 
With that one of the rioters hurls a moldy beet at d'Artagnan, who draws his sword in a slick liquid movement, he cuts the vegetable from the air. 
The display of expertise is startling.  Someone else throws a head of lettuce; d'Artagnan slices it in half, and as the pieces fly he skewers one with the point of his sword. 
D'ARTAGNAN I'm on my way to a salad!  Doesn't anybody have any endive? 
The mob laughs at this panache, and the amazing display of swordsmanship that lies behind it.  Someone tosses more lettuce, and d'Artagnan divides and skewers this one as well. This time the crowd applauds. 
D'ARTAGNAN A tomato? 
Can he do it?  Someone fires a tomato right at his head, and sure enough d'Artagnan spears it.  Then, with a victorious flourish, he takes a bite of it.  His face contorts with the taste, and he spits the pieces out; the crowd is hushed. 
D'ARTAGNAN You are right.  It is rotten.  I will speak to the King myself.  You have my word. 
The mob is completely won over by d'Artagnan; the ruffian, angry that his riot is fizzling, raises his knife again over the soldiers, but now the point of d'Artagnan's sword flicks to the ruffian's neck. 
D'ARTAGNAN And you will release those men -- for they serve France... and you. 
RIOTERS Three cheers for d'Artagnan! Hurrah...!!  Hurrah...!! 
The soldiers who moments before were about to be ripped apart now stand and look at d'Artagnan in gratitude and awe.  The mob has forgotten them; they see only d'Artagnan as he rakes his blade clean, returns it to its scabbard, reins his horse around, and slowly rides away, escorting the soldiers back toward the palace. 
INT.  PALACE - NIGHT 
D'Artagnan strides into the long hallway leading to the royal apartments.  As he reaches the door to the king's rooms, he finds a knot of royal advisors -- among them Pierre and Claude -- gathered outside the king's door. 
CLAUDE We already know about the riots! 
D'ARTAGNAN Does he know? 
PIERRE We will tell him, when it is... 
CLAUDE Convenient. 
Blocked by the advisors, d'Artagnan leaves them, turning down one hallway, and then another; he reaches the Hall of Mirrors and touches the golden frame of one mirror at its corner; the mirror becomes a door, revealing a secret passage within the walls.  D'Artagnan steps through and the portal closes again, leaving no trace of its existence. 
INT.  PALACE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Within a bed whose tapestried posts stretch to the sixteen foot ceiling, the king is making love; the YOUNG WOMAN lying beneath him is doing her best to sound sincere. 
YOUNG WOMAN Oh yes!  So good!  Ooo, wonderful, Marvelous!  Fan-tas -- 
Louis climaxes with a grunt.  She tries to sound pleased. 
YOUNG WOMAN Oh, Louis, that was incredible.  It was better than ever before.  It -- 
LOUIS I'm hungry. 
He hops up, throwing on a silk robe embroidered in gold. 
YOUNG WOMAN I will have food brought. 
LOUIS I like to eat alone. 
He moves to what appears to be a wardrobe, standing against the far wall, and opens its door, revealing a secret staircase hidden within the thick walls of the palace. 
LOUIS By the way, you'll be moving tomorrow. 
Leaving the girl without another word, he moves down the concealed stairs. 
INT.  THE KING'S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT 
Louis reaches the bottom of the stairs, disguised behind a similar wardrobe in his own bedroom.  He steps out -- and is startled as the lifesize portrait of Louis XIII on the other side of the room opens to admit d'Artagnan. 
LOUIS Aaa!  D'Artagnan!  These passages were constructed for the King's security, not so you could step from my father's portrait and startle me to death! 
D'ARTAGNAN It is for your security that I have come, your Majesty -- for the security of your honor. 
LOUIS I already know about the riots, d'Artagnan, I heard them out there whispering.  Some fool gave the order to distribute rotten food.  I will deal with it tomorrow. 
D'ARTAGNAN Then there is one more thing, of an even more personal nature. 
ARAMIS I grow closer to my target, your Majesty. 
LOUIS You bring me the heart of the Jesuit General, and you will have a palace of your own. 
The King moves away, followed by his fawning advisors. 
INT.  THE FAVORITE MISTRESS' PALACE ROOMS - DAY 
A young Musketeer ushers Michelle into the palace bedroom previously occupied by the King's last mistress.  The Musketeer leaves her alone, frozen in the center of the room, awed by the opulence.  Her eyes play over the details: 
-- The handcarved, richly upholstered furniture, beneath her fingertips... 
-- The carved figures of cherubic angels, gleaming with gold, upon the posts of the bed... 
-- The murals on the walls and ceiling... 
Her reverie is interrupted by a HANDMAIDEN who bustles in carrying a magnificent dress. 
HANDMAIDEN After your bath put on this, it is the King's favorite color.  That letter on the desk came here for you this morning. 
She tosses the dress onto the bed and is gone.  Left alone, Michelle lifts the letter, and recognizes the writing. 
MICHELLE Raoul! 
She opens the letter and reads quickly. 
MICHELLE The army!  Oh Raoul, don't despair! I will always be faithful... 
She interrupts herself as her eyes fall on the gorgeous dress.  She looks around at the sumptuous palace apartment, and gazes again at the murals painted above the bed. 
They depict naked gods and goddesses, in Olympian orgies. 
CUT TO: 
CLOSE - STEAMING WATER, POURED INTO A TUB 
The Handmaiden has prepared a 17th Century bathtub for Michelle, and now retires. 
HANDMAIDEN If you need me further, just ring. 
As the handmaiden leaves, exiting frame, we PUSH IN on one of the murals on the wall.  The eye of one of the figures there is no longer the painted eye it was before, but is a real human eye, disguised by the mural... 
THE KING, IN THE SECRET PASSAGEWAY 
is spying on Michelle. 
THE KING'S POV 
as Michelle undresses and steps into the bath.  Louis catches tantalizing glimpses of her richly sensual body in the soapy water, and it stokes his desire. 
INT.  PALACE - MICHELLE'S NEW ROOM - DAY 
Michelle stands before the mirror, staring at herself, breaktakingly gorgeous in her new dress.  She stares for a long time, surprised at her own beauty. 
She reaches to a vase of roses and pulls one out, blotting it around her neck, perfuming herself with its fragrance.  She looks into the mirror, at her eyes... In guilt for what she is already feeling, she lifts Raoul's letter to read it again.  Then she gasps -- the King stands right before her. 
MICHELLE Sire!  I -- How did you -- 
LOUIS How did I get in?  You're new here, and will soon learn many secrets. What is that? 
MICHELLE ... Nothing. 
LOUIS A letter.  May I see? 
He takes the letter; she has no resistance against him.  The King reads, his eyes hardening suddenly; but then he smiles. 
LOUIS From Raoul.  He urges you to guard your honor -- as if it could be in any danger... from your king. 
MICHELLE Raoul... is in love... 
LOUIS Enough of this, our dinner waits. 
Tossing the letter aside, he offers her his arm.  She takes it and allows him to escort her from the room. 
INT.  PALACE - THE HALL OF MIRRORS 
The hall is alive with glorious light, fiery gold frames surrounding silvery mirrors blazing with reflections. Musicians line the length of the hall, and when Louis and Michelle appear at the far doorway they begin playing for the couple as they parade past.  Michelle is speechless, as Louis smiles at her awed innocence. 
INT.  ROYAL DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Louis leads Michelle into a towering room surrounding a magnificent table, decked out with candelabra and sumptuous delicacies -- set for just two. 
THE DINNER 
Louis and Michelle sit opposite each other, attended by a dozen servants.  Michelle stares at her plate. 
Without another word he goes back the way he came.  Raoul grips his musket and looks around him; he finds himself among several dozen stark eyed men manning the forward curve of the trench.  He has little time to wonder what will happen next. A horn trumpets close by, and with a shout, the French soldiers clamber out of their breastworks. 
For an instant, Raoul hesitates in pure terror, then joins the charge with a shout of his own -- 
RAOUL Mi-cheeelllll!! -- 
On the stone wall looming above the French soldiers, orange blossoms of fire -- the muzzle flash of primitive cannons -- penetrate the smoke, and the ground at Raoul's feet explodes, hurling him backwards.  He covered barely a few feet, and falls almost exactly where he started. 
Dead. 
CUT TO: 
CLOSE - THE DOOR OF ATHOS' ROOMS - DAY 
A gloved hand raps on the door.  Athos opens it to a military messenger, who shoves at him a single sheet of paper, rolled and tied with ribbon. 
INT.  ATHOS' ROOM - NIGHT 
The message slams onto the table as Athos staggers upon it, his legs buckling beneath him in shock and grief. 
INT.  D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM - DAY 
D'Artagnan is working at his desk, as the Lieutenant enters. 
LIEUTENANT Sir... a casualty report came... 
D'Artagnan looks at the paper the Lieutenant hands him. 
D'ARTAGNAN No, no, no... 
He sags for a moment, then grabs his cloak and sword. 
INT./ EXT.  MUSKETEER'S GATE OF THE PALACE - DAY 
The Musketeer's Gate is close to the stables where the Musketeers train and keep their horses.  D'Artagnan hurries from the Palace and snaps an order. 
D'ARTAGNAN Saddle my horse! 
The grooms jump to work; several young Musketeers nearby stop their training, noticing their Captain's agitation. 
D'ARTAGNAN Hurry -- 
But then d'Artagnan sees Athos coming, riding furiously through the Musketeers' gate.  D'Artagnan steps out to meet him as Athos reins in his horse and jumps from the saddle. 
D'ARTAGNAN Athos, my friend -- 
Athos marches to the palace door; d'Artagnan cuts him off. 
D'ARTAGNAN Athos, please...! 
ATHOS Get out of my way. 
D'ARTAGNAN (grabbing him) Athos, I beg you -- 
Athos punches d'Artagnan with furious strength, knocking him aside.  The young Musketeers reach for their weapons, but d'Artagnan is up quickly, throwing himself in front of Athos again, blocking the doorway into the palace. 
D'ARTAGNAN Where are you going? 
ATHOS To kill the king. 
At this, the swords of the young Musketeers sing from their scabbards.  Athos wears a sword, but he has not drawn it. 
D'ARTAGNAN Athos!  I know life means nothing to you at this moment, but I will not let you kill yourself. 
ATHOS The King killed my son! 
D'ARTAGNAN The cannons killed Raoul!  The cannons, and love.  But not the King. 
A YOUNG MUSKETEER steps up. 
YOUNG MUSKETEER I'll kill the old man for you, Captain, if you don't wish to -- 
Athos spins, striking like a rattlesnake, his sword whipping from its scabbard and slicing off the arrogant young Musketeer's ear.  He flicks another's sword from his grasp, then brings the the point of his own blade up beneath the chin of a third, shoving him back. 
ATHOS Come on!  All of you! 
D'Artagnan tackles Athos from behind and pins him face down to the hay.  For a moment Athos bellows in rage -- 
ATHOS Coward!  Fight me!  Fight me...! 
Emotion spills up into Athos' throat, and he begins to sob. 
ATHOS He killed my son, d'Artagnan!  He killed my son...! 
D'Artagnan, dying inside, still grips Athos.  Athos grows quiet, and the young Musketeers drift closer. 
Candles illuminate masterpiece frescoes.  The place is breathtaking. 
PORTHOS Where are we? 
ARAMIS Jesus of Nazareth found the holy among the profane.  If we are to have a place of private prayer, where better than here, beside the channels where the shit and the garbage run to the river? 
Porthos notices niches in the walls; he looks closely and sees the face of a corpse, enclosed behind glass. 
PORTHOS Mother of God! 
ARAMIS It is also a place of burial. 
PORTHOS A tomb?  We're in a tomb? 
ARAMIS Catacombs.  Very holy. 
Porthos looks as if the bodies could resurrect at any moment -- then jumps out of his skin as the door opens. 
PORTHOS Yaaaahhh! 
A hooded figure, looking like the Grim Reaper, enters. 
ARAMIS Relax, you big fool, it's d'Artagnan. 
And sure enough the hooded figure, whom we now see has been led in by a little monk, is d'Artagnan.  Aramis nods to the monk, who leaves quickly.  Before d'Artagnan can ask anything, Porthos jumps again; the back door has opened, and monks usher in Athos, who freezes as he sees d'Artagnan. 
ARAMIS It's all right.  D'Artagnan was the one who warned us that he'd been given an order for your arrest. Here you have sanctuary -- does he not, d'Artagnan? 
The escort monks disappear, closing the chapel door so that the four Musketeers are left to sit at a small table the monks have set up, Athos and D'Artagnan opposite each other. 
ARAMIS Look at us.  We are old men now.  But once we were young.  And when we saw injustice, we fought it. 
D'ARTAGNAN We have grown wiser with age.  Now we know that some problems cannot be settled with a sword. 
ATHOS And some problems cannot be settled without one. 
ARAMIS Well here is the problem at hand: the King has ordered me to discover the identity of the Governor General of Jesuits, and kill him.  As our English rivals have left the Catholic Church, Louis has struck on a plan to dominate the whole of Europe by uniting Church and State and making himself head of both.  He has already picked the Pope.  Only the Jesuits, who put God above throne or papacy, stand in his way. 
PORTHOS But -- doesn't God ordain both Pope and King? 
ARAMIS So they tell us.  But what are we to believe when the king is a tyrant, and the Church, meant to stand for all those oppressed, has become the tool of oppression?  When no conscience is tolerated?  No dissent, no objection? 
PORTHOS It is a weighty problem, Aramis -- but perhaps you should leave it to this secret General of the Jesuits, whoever he might be. 
ARAMIS Easy to say, but hard to do.  For what I am trying to tell you is that I am the Governor General of Jesuits in France. 
A stunned silence. 
ATHOS What do you propose to do? 
ARAMIS Replace the king. 
D'ARTAGNAN I cannot hear this! 
PORTHOS It can't be done. 
ARAMIS It can.  I know the way. 
ATHOS I am with you! 
D'ARTAGNAN No!  Stop -- 
ARAMIS I will need you all.  All for one. One for all. 
D'ARTAGNAN (jumping up) You -- You cannot ask me to betray my king!  I have sworn to him! 
ATHOS It is honor you serve, and when the king is dishonorable you are removed from your oath of honor! 
D'ARTAGNAN An oath is an oath precisely because it cannot be removed! 
ATHOS Why do you follow him, d'Artagnan?! I know you have put service above your own life, but why does this King deserve such loyalty?  He is a monster!  He executes ministers for his own blunders, with their families hostage so they take the blame!  He has no honor! 
D'ARTAGNAN No man is all bad... or all good.  I believe -- I must believe -- that Louis can learn.  And perhaps I can help him. 
Athos leaps up from the table, and glares at d'Artagnan. 
ATHOS Whatever the plan... I am in it! The next time we meet, one of us will die. 
He storms out of the rear door of the chapel. 
ARAMIS Porthos, see to Athos, won't you? 
Porthos follows Athos; Aramis and d'Artagnan are left alone. 
ARAMIS I have heard many confessions, d'Artagnan.  But even if I were not a priest, I could tell your heart has a secret weight, and it is hurting you to carry it alone. 
HEAD GUARD Who is this, then? 
The little priest remains in the boat, slumped over.  One GUARD speaks to the little priest in Italian, and the little priest seems barely able to left his head; Aramis answers for him, in Italian, and the guard translates -- 
GUARD He says he's the replacement. 
Aramis rattles off more Italian. 
GUARD He says it is only one day a month when the prisoner gets confession, and the little one is too sick to move.  The big one doesn't speak French either. 
HEAD GUARD Then let's get it done. 
The head guard gestures to let them pass. 
INT.  CELL OF THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK 
The prisoner has used the torn Bible to make all sorts of amazing origami, invented from his own head.  He looks up as he hears the door open, and sees Aramis, the priest. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK My confession day!  But where is the other one? 
Aramis says something in Latin -- the first words of the ceremony of absolution -- as the guards lock the door behind him and move off down the corridor. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK I know you don't speak my language -- but is the other one all right? Please tell me he is not dead too, or I will have lost everyone. 
Aramis goes on mumbling Latin mechanically, for the sake of the retreating guards.  The Man in the Iron Mask is desperate for someone to talk to. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK I... tore my Bible.  Or someone else did.  But it was all right.  "Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in Thy sight, Oh Lord our God and My Redeemer." 
Aramis has stopped talking, and stares transfixed at this sight of the prisoner, in the iron mask. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK I'm sorry.  You're never seen me before.  I must frighten you. 
Aramis puts his finger to his lips. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK What are you doing?  Why do you -- 
Aramis clamps his hand over the mouth hole, and whispers -- 
ARAMIS I am a friend, here to help you. 
Aramis hurriedly removes his robes, revealing the bundle. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK What -- ? 
ARAMIS It is an escape.  To freedom. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK Freedom...? 
He says it as if the concept is beyond him.  Aramis undoes the bundle, revealing the limp body. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK Wh-- ?  He is dead!  Who is he? 
ARAMIS He is you. 
Aramis uncovers the head of the body.  It is covered in a mask, identical to the prisoner's. 
INT.  PRISON CORRIDOR - CELL 
The Guards are sharing a bottle of wine, when they hear -- 
ARAMIS Hey!  Hey! 
GUARD What now? 
INT.  CELL 
The guards enter to find the Man in the Iron Mask slumped on the floor.  Aramis, looking like the fat priest again, stands over him spouting Italian, as one GUARD translates -- 
GUARD He says he just fell stone dead as he was reading him the Mass. 
HEAD GUARD I never thought the bugger would last this long.  But how could he just keel over and -- 
Aramis rattles off more Italian, and suddenly the guard who understands it stops examining the body and backs off. 
GUARD He says the prisoner has the fever, just like the little priest does. 
HEAD GUARD Plague?  They brought plague in here?  Get him out of here.  Now! 
Aramis rattles off a protest in Italian. 
GUARD No, no last rites!  Get away! 
EXT.  PRISON - DAY 
Aramis climbs into the boat; as he sits down his belly stirs, but the guards don't see it -- they are using poles to push the boat away, into the sea. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK This way. 
The prisoner manipulates the cup in the way he must to get a drink, then falls back to the pillow. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK This place... I once lived in a country house.  I had guardians -- an old man and woman.  And tutors. But no friends.  Then when I was twelve, they came and took me to the prison. 
ATHOS Who came? 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK A man in black.  I never saw his face.  He took me to the cell.  A blacksmith came and they put me into the mask.  For days I shouted, "What have I done?  Why do you do this to me?"  But no one heard, so I just stopped shouting. 
ATHOS And you never knew why? 
PRISONER I thought... there is something about my face that men do not want to see.  Something that makes them cruel.  But then I realized they were cruel even when I was wearing the mask.  I knew there must be some other reason, but I could not think what it was. 
ATHOS What is your name? 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK The old man and woman called me... Phillippe. 
ATHOS Phillippe.  Rest now. 
Athos moves to the door. 
MAN IN THE IRON MASK Thank you... for your kindness. 
Athos nods, pauses a moment... and leaves. 
INT.  A DARK APARTMENT IN PARIS - NIGHT 
The lock rattles, and the door swings open.  D'Artagnan enters, lifting a lantern to throw light on the dark room. It is Athos' apartment, the one he visited earlier; now he finds it empty, devoid of clues.  He stands there alone. 
He turns to leave, then glimpses a familiar painting hanging beside the door.  Lifting his light he studies the portrait: Athos, Aramis, Porthos and himself -- four Musketeers, beat friends, in their prime.  Together then, inseparable. 
D'ARTAGNAN My friends... Where have you gone? 
He lowers the lantern, and leaves. 
CUT TO: 
THE MESSAGE FROM THE PRISON... 
has reached the court.  Gloved hands pass the message from one advisor to another, and finally to the King. 
INT.  PALACE - KING'S STUDY - DAY 
The King reads the message, rerolls it, thinks a moment, and hands the scroll to Claude. 
LOUIS Take this to my mother. 
THE MESSAGE 
is again passed, this time into the hands of the Queen Mother's eldest nun-attendant, and then into the hands of the Queen Mother herself.  The Queen is in her private rooms, and for the first time we see her with her hair down.  She accepts the scroll, opens it, and reads. 
Her eyes fill with pain, grief, guilt... emotions she hides, turning away. 
NUN M'lady... are you...? 
ANNE Please, just... go away. 
INT.  D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM - NIGHT 
D'Artagnan returns from his ride to Athos' place.  He looks down at the Queen's door.  He checks the clock on the wall; it is a few minutes past nine.  He enters his room, moves to the window, and waits there, to catch a glimpse of her. 
INT.  COUNTRY MANOR HOUSE - FRONT ROOM - NIGHT 
Aramis is digging into a hearty meal, while Porthos only stares at his plate. 
ARAMIS See?  There is plenty of food in the country.  But the King keeps it going to the army instead of -- 
Athos marches in, all business. 
ATHOS He is sleeping.  Now see here, Aramis, it's time you told us -- 
He breaks off as a voluptuous serving girl leans over to spoon food onto Porthos' plate; her breasts jiggle below his nose, and she gives him a smile. 
PORTHOS I have no appetite for food, I am wasting away.  Say goodbye to Porthos, for he is gone.  Even women don't interest me now. 
The girl moves to whisper with two other serving girls, who seem fascinated with the roguish Porthos; their giggles and winks make Porthos even more morose; he tells his friends... 
PORTHOS I tell you a secret.  I sleep with three women at once, not because my appetite is so great, but because now it take three to excite me. 
Porthos heaves himself to his feet and shuffles off; Aramis sighs, having heard all this before.  Athos sits down. 
ATHOS Who is he, Aramis? 
ARAMIS Tomorrow. 
INT.  PALACE CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
They reach the Queen Mother's room; d'Artagnan reaches to open the door for her, and she keeps her eyes lowered.  But before he can let her go, he must whisper... 
D'ARTAGNAN Anne...!  I know... I know that to love you is treason against France. But not to love you... is treason against my heart. 
ANNE Then we will both die traitors, d'Artagnan. 
With those whispered words hanging in the air, she enters her room.  And d'Artagnan moves alone, back to his. 
INT.  MICHELLE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
The King is trying to make love with Michelle -- but she isn't responding.  He stops, exasperated. 
LOUIS What is wrong? 
She says nothing.  He tries kissing her again. 
LOUIS What is wrong?! 
She begins weeping uncontrollably, and turns from him. 
MICHELLE Raoul... Oh, Raoul... 
LOUIS Listen, my darling... Raoul was a... a good friend.  And now he is dead and that is very sad but -- 
MICHELLE We'll burn in hell.  Both of us. 
The King stands; he's had enough of this. 
LOUIS No, my love.  You will burn in hell, for your sins.  But I will not -- for I am King.  My position is ordained by God. 
He snatches the gold coverlet from her bed to cover his naked body and stalks to his stairway; the embroidered coverlet trails behind him like a regal train in a royal procession. Leaving her weeping, he moves down into... 
INT.  THE KING'S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT 
The King angrily stalks around his bedroom, too agitated to sleep.  He grabs food from the table by the window, and starts to pop a grape into his mouth when he stops.  He sees something out the window; it stops him dead cold. 
It is a man, standing in the gardens, wearing an iron mask. 
LOUIS D'Artagnan!  Guards! 
EXT.  GARDENS - OUTSIDE THE KING'S WINDOW - NIGHT 
The apparition ducks into the shadows. 
INT.  PALACE - D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM - NIGHT 
D'Artagnan is sitting on his cot thinking of all that has just happened when he hears the king's shouts of alarm. 
LOUIS' VOICE Help! 
In an instant d'Artagnan is reacting, snatching up his sword and racing out into the corridor, toward the King's room. 
INT.  CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
The guards outside the King's room find the door latched from within, and they don't know what to do... D'Artagnan, running up, never slows down; he crashes into the doors. 
INT.  THE KING'S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT 
The King whirls as the doors explode inward and d'Artagnan barrels through. 
LOUIS Out there!  Look!  Out there!  He -- 
The garden is empty. 
D'ARTAGNAN I just left the garden, it was empty.  What did you see? 
LOUIS It... was nothing.  A nightmare, nothing more.  Go away, I -- 
D'Artagnan guides his guards out, but glances back to see the King, ashamed and worried.  D'Artagnan tells his men -- 
D'ARTAGNAN Check the garden. 
EXT.  GARDEN - OUTSIDE THE KING'S WINDOW - NIGHT 
An old Jesuit priest slips back into the garden chapel where the nuns have returned to pray.  He kneels at a back pew, tucking the iron mask deep within his robes.  The young Musketeers who move through the garden glance into the chapel, see only the normal piety, and move on.  The old priest crosses himself, bows his head, and smiles. 
CUT TO: 
CLOSE - PHILLIPPE'S EYES, THROUGH THE SLITS OF THE MASK 
They are frightened.  As we PULL BACK we see the Iron Mask, in an OVERHEAD POV... Phillippe is lying on his back, his head resting on an anvil.  Athos stands close by, lending support; Aramis and Porthos look on.  A blacksmith stands over Phillippe.  He positions the point of his chisel against the lock of the mask.  It takes several ringing hammer blows -- which we experience from a POV WITHIN THE MASK -- before the lock breaks. 
Athos, as gently as he can, pries open the iron mask. 
ARAMIS I have it all worked out. 
ATHOS Physical resemblance is but one small thing!  Louis has an arrogance, a manner -- 
ARAMIS Those can be adopted -- 
ATHOS And people close to him, who -- 
ARAMIS Do you think I have not considered that?  I have a plan -- and you may rest assured that it is brilliant! 
ATHOS It is not just our lives you risk with this conceit of yours!  It is Phillippe's as well! 
ARAMIS Yes, and he has a choice! 
Aramis stops thundering at Athos, and turns to Phillippe. 
ARAMIS What about it, Phillippe?!  All that time in prison, all that time you suffered, was it for nothing?!  You memorized the entire Bible, or so your priest told me!  An act of survival, of defiance, of courage! Your years within the mask have given you reserves of strength that others could not imagine.  Your home was a dungeon and now you may be a king, if you have the heart to make it so!  Do you have the heart? 
Phillippe stands shakily, and faces them. 
PHILLIPPE I will try. 
Phillippe walks -- nearly wanders -- from the room. 
ARAMIS You see?  A king. 
Athos, with a glare at Aramis, follows Phillippe. 
EXT.  MANOR HOUSE GARDENS - DAY 
The gardens are sun drenched, bursting with the beauty of a French summer.  Athos finds Phillippe there, sitting alone. 
ATHOS Recent hours have been a shock. 
PHILLIPPE Perhaps not as much as you might imagine.  When tutors answered every question except those about who I was.  When I was imprisoned in a way no other man had ever been, I knew there was something different about me.  But a king... 
ATHOS Phillippe... there is something I hope you understand.  Terrible cruelty has been used against you. And... you must understand that you did nothing to deserve it. 
PHILLIPPE There is... wrath... in me.  I have learned to hide it.  Those years in the cell, I dreamed that freedom would someday just happen, the way the mask happened.  Now I am free. And with each free breath I feel the growing desire to make someone suffer for all I lost.  Look at this, all this that for ten years I could not see!  What if I become a king -- a king no different from my brother? 
ATHOS The desire for vengeance... can be a poison. 
PHILLIPPE What is its antidote? 
ATHOS I suppose... it is to remember there are many people who have never been in a prison, who pass such beauty every day, and never see it. 
Phillippe reaches to a flower, plucks it, and smells it.  He looks around at the beauty of the garden, taking it all in. Athos looks around too; then Athos realizes Phillippe is no longer looking at the garden, but at him. 
PHILLIPPE You look so sad.  Is it something I have done? 
ATHOS It is something I have done -- or did not do. 
PHILLIPPE What is that? 
ATHOS I did not share beauty with someone... who is no longer here for me to share beauty with. 
Before Phillippe can pursue this, Athos turns businesslike. 
ATHOS We have much to do, we'd best get started.  Now suppose you were to walk into a garden, as a king... 
INT.  MANOR HOUSE DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Aramis is having dinner; he calls toward the kitchen. 
ARAMIS More wine! 
Athos enters and sags into a chair, his energy spent. 
ARAMIS How is he? 
ATHOS Resting, he's had a long day. Aramis -- 
ARAMIS (calling out) More wine!! 
ATHOS You must reconsider this plan. Phillippe is like a child, he -- 
ARAMIS You can do it. 
ATHOS In a year, maybe two, I could teach him enough to -- 
ARAMIS Three days. 
ATHOS Three days??!! 
ARAMIS The King is having a ball, a masquerade ball.  It is the perfect opportunity and perhaps our only one.  At any time Phillippe could be discovered, and what then?  Remember France.  Remember the poor. Remember Raoul.  More wine!!  Where are those serving girls...? 
ARAMIS I sawed the main beam in half. 
IN THE BARN 
The chain reaction has just begun.  The broken floorboards buckle, and the barn's walls, deprived of their central support, fall in on each other. 
IN THE FRONT ROOM 
Athos and Aramis watch wide-eyed as the whole barn completely collapses around the unfortunate Porthos.  Athos gives Aramis a look. 
ARAMIS I'm a genius -- not an engineer! 
They jump up and run out.  The commotion draws others too -- especially the three wenches Porthos had been trying to bed. 
THE COLLAPSED BARN 
It's a tangle of debris -- and from the size and weight of the pile, it looks as if no one could live through the collapse.  For a moment the whole pile lies silent; then suddenly it bursts apart and Porthos emerges, exploding with anger. 
PORTHOS Aramis!!  You did this, didn't you! You knew I would try hanging myself, and you sawed the beam!  Admit it! Admit it, by God!!  ADMIT IT!!! 
Porthos' eyes are bulging; he's terrifying in his fury.  And he holds one of the broken barn's timbers like a giant club, ready to bash in Aramis' brains.  Aramis is totally casual. 
ARAMIS Well of course I knew it, Porthos. 
Porthos stands there, blinking. 
ARAMIS You've been moping for months.  Now that you've gotten the idea of killing yourself out of the way, you can stop boring me and start being useful to me.  Now get some rest. 
PORTHOS Well... Well... Okay. 
Porthos starts back toward the house.  Then one of the serving girls, heading back inside, sees in one of the upper windows -- the face in the Iron Mask.  She SCREAMS -- 
WENCH AAAAAAHHHHHHH! 
Phillippe shies back from the window now, but it's too late, everyone has seen him.  Aramis, with cold intellectual curiosity, quietly observes the women's reaction, even as his hooded helpers scurry from the shadows to calm the frightened locals. 
ATHOS Poor Phillippe! 
ARAMIS The mask is terrifying... especially when unexpected.  Do you notice? 
ATHOS All I noticed was that Phillippe feels even more like an animal. 
Athos hurries in; Aramis looks at Porthos. 
ARAMIS See, Porthos -- secrets are hard to keep.  We don't have much time. 
INT.  PHILLIPPE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Athos enters to find Phillippe in a corner of the bedroom, slumped and ashamed in the darkness, holding the mask. 
PHILLIPPE I've worn this mask so long, I couldn't sleep without it. 
ATHOS I will sit with you.  I can't sleep either. 
Athos settles into a chair, as Phillippe lays the mask aside on the table and closes his eyes.  Athos looks toward the flames of the fireplace, and in their dancing shadows he sees the face of Raoul.  Phillippe's voice interrupts -- 
PHILLIPPE Athos...?  Thank you for being my guide... back into the world. 
Athos had not thought of it that way.  Phillippe closes his eyes again, and falls asleep. 
INT.  PHILLIPPE'S BEDROOM - MORNING 
Light falls on Athos' face; it is dawn.  He hears the whinny of horses, and looks out the window to see a carriage about to leave.  Reacting quickly, he hurries out quietly. 
EXT.  CHATEAU - MORNING 
Aramis and Porthos are already loaded into the carriage, as Athos runs up. 
ATHOS Where are you going?! 
ARAMIS Paris.  There is still much to do. We'll be back soon.  Be ready. 
ATHOS But Aramis -- !  Phillippe can learn in time, but -- 
ARAMIS He can learn to be Phillippe in time.  But first he must learn to be Louis, and for that he has two more days. 
ATHOS What you're asking is impossible! 
ARAMIS I offer you the perfect revolution. A revolution without bloodshed, without any loss of life, even without treason, for he too is the son of the King. 
ATHOS But -- 
ARAMIS You said you'd do anything, Athos, anything to replace this King.  So do it. 
Aramis motions to the driver, who snaps the reins and drives the horses away. 
The man with a sword steps forward to hack Porthos down, but Porthos spins, slapping the pistol, making it BOOM but miss; he kicks the swordsman in the groin, then smashes his head against the alley wall; he backhands the gunman.  The robber with the knife tries to run; Porthos snatches a barrel from the street and hurls it into the fleeing robber's back; he falls in a heap. 
Porthos' fury has just begun.  He picks the fallen gunman up by the throat, slams him stomach down across a broken alley cart, and with one sweep of his mighty hand Porthos snatches down the man's pants. 
PORTHOS Old?!  I'll show you old!! 
Porthos snatches the pistol from the cobblestones.  We see the shock and terror on the robber's face as he feels something shocking happen behind him. 
PORTHOS Let's see you rob somebody with your pistol there! 
ARAMIS Come on... 
Aramis, acting as if nothing happened, leads Porthos away. 
PORTHOS I have to tell you something.  I love Paris! 
Aramis has found what he's looking for:  a filthy brothel. 
ARAMIS Here we are. 
Aramis leads Porthos inside. 
INT.  BROTHEL - NIGHT 
Sleazy whores lounge around, women at the very bottom of life.  They stir and try to look more appealing as the two well dressed gentlemen enter. 
PORTHOS Aramis... These are... these are whores! 
ARAMIS So was Mary Magdalene, and our Lord loved her. 
PORTHOS Did she have tits like that? 
A greasy, disgusting PIMP shuffles over. 
PIMP What do you want?  White?  Black? Both? 
ARAMIS No.  We want you, Father Belles. 
The pimp reacts with fury, drawing a pistol. 
PIMP Get out!  Now!  I will kill you where you stand! 
Aramis slowly falls to his knees, before the pimp. 
ARAMIS Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. 
The pimp -- the former Father Belles, the same man we saw as the priest who prayed with the Queen at the royal birth in the opening -- shoves his pistol at Aramis' face. 
PIMP Don't!  Get out! 
ARAMIS I have sinned.  And no other priest's assurance of forgiveness can mean as much as yours.  Tell me that I can be forgiven, no matter what I have done. 
Aramis' eyes are hypnotic, staring deep into the fallen priest's soul.  Porthos is bug-eyed, certain Aramis' head is about to be blown apart. 
PORTHOS He's going to kill you, Aramis. 
ARAMIS Then let him kill me, if all my faith is wrong. 
He stares at the pimp.  The pimp's finger trembles on the trigger. 
ARAMIS I have come to help you make it right.  I have come to take you home. 
The pimp shakes convulsively; he drops to his knees, bows his head, and weeps. 
EXT.  STREETS OF PARIS - NIGHT 
Aramis' carriage rattles through the dark streets; we play these secret movement sequences with an ominous, Jack-the- Ripper quality.  The carriage pulls into... 
INT.  CATHEDRAL COURTYARD - NIGHT 
The priests scurry out to meet it.  First Aramis emerges, then Porthos -- but the appearance of the pimp surprises the cathedral priests.  They cross themselves. 
PRIESTS Father Belles! 
Crossing themselves, they embrace the prodigal priest; one MONK kneels before Aramis. 
MONK You have made a miracle! 
ARAMIS God makes miracles.  You make dinner. 
As Aramis strides toward the dining room, a Jesuit hurries up to him. 
JESUIT The ball has been rescheduled -- for tomorrow. 
As Aramis hears this in surprise -- 
He looks up to see that Michelle has entered through the open door behind him. 
LOUIS Never mind, it seems we have already told her. 
But Michelle's appearance brings him up short.  It is not the cruel brush-off; she is already harshly different:  her eyes are red from crying, her lips are tight in anger. 
MICHELLE Murderer!  Murderer! 
She holds a letter, crushed in her hand. 
MICHELLE I wrote Fromberge!  Under your seal! I wrote as you, demanding to know why he disregarded my order to keep Raoul from danger!  He writes back: "But your Majesty!  Your last letter ordered me to put him in front of the cannon!" 
She hurls the crumpled letter into his face.  Everyone is frozen, silent.  She staggers toward Louis as if to attack him, then falls to her knees, weeping.  No one helps her... 
Except d'Artagnan.  He kneels, hugs her shoulders, helps her to her feet, and guides her toward her room.  But d'Artagnan looks back once, toward Louis. 
LOUIS Hysterical woman. 
CLAUDE Sire, misuse of the royal seal -- ! 
LOUIS She'll be gone tomorrow. 
As d'Artagnan and Michelle move out, they pass Anne, coming in.  Anne and d'Artagnan exchange a look; he remembers to give her a respectful nod, but she moves past, into the King's dressing room.  Louis is surprised. 
LOUIS Mother -- ? 
ANNE May I speak with you?  Alone? 
LOUIS I am preparing for a ball! 
ANNE We haven't visited in three years. And we should have privacy. 
Exasperated, Louis waves his attendants away. 
LOUIS What is it, mother? 
ANNE I wish to discuss your brother. 
LOUIS He is dead!  By God's choice!  There is nothing to discuss. 
ANNE First they told me he had died at birth.  Then your father admitted he was alive, but well cared for, in secret.  But the message that told of his death said he had been a prisoner. 
LOUIS I am King, Mother!  And I do not wish to discuss this with you. 
ANNE He was my blood -- and I demand to know what happened to him. 
LOUIS Why would you ask now?  You never asked before! 
ANNE Because I have dreamed of him.  Not as the baby they took away, but as a man. 
LOUIS You have prayed too much.  Your mind is weak. 
Avoiding her stare, Louis lifts a plaster bust of his father, its eyes like the sightless pupils of Greek gods. 
ANNE I believe in dreams, Louis.  They are our souls speaking to us, from that world beyond our eyes.  And that son I never saw in daylight was standing in the moonlight of my dreams.  And he wore an iron mask. 
We see her from a low angle, from a POV behind Louis -- and we see the plaster bust burst upon the marble floor. 
LOUIS It -- it doesn't matter, Mother!  He is dead now!  Dead! 
ANNE Yes.  Dead.  Two nights ago.  The night of my dream. 
And the night of Louis' "dream."  Anne begins to walk out. 
LOUIS If... if he was wearing an iron mask in your dream, then how could you know he was your son? 
Louis smiles; he thinks he has her. 
ANNE Then you did do it, Louis.  You did put your brother in an iron mask. 
All the blood is gone from Louis' face.  Anne walks from the room, past Louis' waiting tailors.  He snaps at them. 
LOUIS I have a ball to attend! 
They rush in.  As they scurry about, dressing him in gold, Louis' composure returns; he stares at himself in the golden mirror, likes what he sees... and smiles. 
EXT.  ROAD - NIGHT 
Aramis' carriage pulls off the road and into the trees.  The Musketeers and Phillippe pile out, to find another much grander carriage there waiting.  Aramis ushers them into it. 
PHILLIPPE Whose carriage is this? 
PORTHOS It was mine.  But since you are about to be the king, it is yours. 
The new carriage lurches away. 
Porthos waddles down stairs, and meets Aramis. 
ARAMIS Quick, to the passages. 
They hurry in the same direction Athos and Phillippe went. 
INT.  PALACE HALLWAY - OUTSIDE THE KING'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
D'Artagnan catches up to the King as he is entering the door of his royal apartment. 
D'ARTAGNAN Your Majesty, is there anything -- ? 
The King shuts the door in d'Artagnan's face. 
INT.  THE KING'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
The King falls upon his bed, pressing his hands to his head. 
INT.  PALACE CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
The three Musketeers and Phillippe move quietly up a stairway and to the door of a room.  Phillippe whispers... 
PHILLIPPE The room of the King's favorite mistress? 
ATHOS She will be at the ball. 
INT.  MICHELLE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
The door opens and they move in; it is in fact empty, though a mess.  They move to the wall, where Aramis, after a little looking, locates the levers to open the wall/door to the King's secret passageway.  Aramis enters first, the others follow.  We half expect Michelle to pop up at any moment, but the Musketeers enter the passage without incident. 
INT.  SECRET PASSAGES - NIGHT 
Aramis silently leads the others through the secret passage, to the portal into the King's bedroom. 
INT.  KING'S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT 
The King is lying on the bed; we see him from the POV of someone approaching him slowly, silently.  When his eyes open in panic, it is too late... We see Aramis, Athos, Porthos from the KING'S POV as they swarm him. 
ARAMIS It is Judgment Day. 
His fist drops into frame... Louis loses consciousness. 
LOUIS' POV 
as consciousness returns.  He see Phillippe in Louis' clothes.  Aramis, Athos and Porthos bow and say... 
MUSKETEERS Your Majesty. 
LOUIS, still on his bed, now wears Phillippe's clothes. 
LOUIS Wh-- Wha-- 
ARAMIS Don't look so shocked, Phillippe. Come, you're going back to prison. 
LOUIS Phillippe?!  Why do you call me -- 
Now Louis understands everything.  He tries to struggle, but instantly Porthos shoves a rag into his mouth. 
Aramis opens the main door a crack, and sees d'Artagnan has entered his room down the corridor, through whose open door he can guard the approaches to the King's rooms.  Aramis shuts the door again and turns to the others. 
ARAMIS D'Artagnan guards the hallway!  You must go back the way we came! 
Athos puts his hands on Phillippe's shoulders. 
ATHOS Now, your Majesty.  It is time. 
Aramis and Porthos bow again to Phillippe -- now dressed and looking exactly like the King.  Phillippe's mouth is dry; he swallows hard, and follows Athos up the hidden stairs. 
INT.  MICHELLE'S BEDCHAMBER 
Athos and Phillippe move to the door; they stop there, and Athos adjusts Phillippe's costume one more time. 
ATHOS You know the way. 
Phillippe nods, tremendously nervous. 
ATHOS You have your note? 
Phillippe pats his pocket, like a boy being sent off to his first day at school.  He surprises Athos, hugging him.  Then Phillippe opens the door and walks slowly down the hallway. Athos stands at the door and watches him go, all alone. Athos whispers, though Phillippe can't hear... 
ATHOS You have the heart of a king. 
Reluctantly, he shuts the door behind Phillippe. 
IN THE HALLWAY, FOLLOWING PHILLIPPE 
ARAMIS He seeks redemption. 
ATHOS You're a fool! 
ARAMIS Perhaps.  But of d'Artagnan I am certain.  What he did tonight was what he told us all along he would do -- be faithful to his King. 
ATHOS So what has changed? 
ARAMIS Perhaps he serves a different king. 
PORTHOS What choice is there?  If Phillippe is in the Bastille, then to the Bastille we will go. 
ATHOS You are right.  But it is a trap. 
PORTHOS So what?  I'd rather die covered in blood, than an old man, lying in my own piss. 
ARAMIS Then to the Bastille. 
ATHOS To the Bastille.  And death. 
EXT.  BASTILLE - NIGHT 
The stone walls rising into the Paris night seem to ooze evil.  The building looks impossible to get into, much less get out of; its doors appear to be solid blocks of wood, encased in stone ramparts. 
We hear a sharp, echoing KNOCK; Aramis, Athos, and Porthos stand outside the main entrance, Athos slumped between the other two like a beaten captive being delivered to jail. 
No one answers their knock; the three Musketeers exchange doubtful glance, and Porthos knocks again.  A guard inside slides open a view port of the massive door. 
PORTHOS Open up!  We have a prisoner! 
The port shuts, bolts rattle, and the great door heaves open. The Musketeers glance at each other again, and play their roles, Aramis and Porthos dragging Athos inside. 
INT.  THE BASTILLE - MAIN COURTYARD - NIGHT 
The prison courtyard is murky in the darkness, and ringed by doors leading into mazes of corridors to its dungeons. 
GUARD Take him down to level three.  The Captain will see to the documents. 
Aramis and Porthos drag Athos into one of the shadowy portals surrounding the courtyard. 
INT.  BASTILLE - VARIOUS SHOTS - NIGHT 
The three Musketeers duck into the inky shadows; Aramis cuts the bonds that hold Athos' hands, and gives him the extra sword he had beneath his cloak. 
PORTHOS It worked! 
ATHOS It's a prison, you idiot!  They don't expect anyone to try getting in!  The problem will come when we want out! 
Aramis shushes them, and leads them into another quiet corridor.  They hear the distant bells of a church, then suddenly they must scramble, as a platoon of guards carrying torches troop up stairs into the corridor; the Musketeers dart like rats into dark nooks; as the guards pass, the Musketeers huddle, and the bells end their tolling. 
ARAMIS Midnight!  We have ten minutes! 
They press on, deeper into the Bastille. 
INT.  PALACE - ANNE'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Anne moves to the window, where she starts to kneel for her nightly prayer; but she stops.  Outside in the garden, far below her window, is d'Artagnan on horseback, waiting.  Their eyes connect.  He has a single rose in his hand.  Never taking his eyes from her, he places the rose on the stone bench of the garden, and reins his horse away. 
Then she understands what he was trying to tell her before, in the hallway; it was goodbye. 
EXT.  PALACE GARDEN - NIGHT 
D'Artagnan rides away quickly, passing -- without seeing -- Lieutenant Andre, who has been watching him. 
EXT.  PARIS STREETS - NIGHT 
Through the night d'Artagnan gallops.  We see his destination in the distance:  the Bastille. 
EXT.  THE PALACE GATES - NIGHT 
The great gates of the palace swing slowly open, and out ride a whole platoon of young Musketeers, surrounding Louis himself, on horseback and dressed like a soldier. 
INT.  THE BASTILLE - VARIOUS SHOTS 
The three Musketeers scramble down a flight of stairs, through another corridor, down another stairway.  They pass cells; wretched prisoners look up, but none of them is Phillippe.  Then the Musketeers surprise a JAILER. 
JAILER Hey...! 
But before the man can say anything else, Porthos has crushed him like a bug against the wall.  They rip the huge ring of keys from the jailer's waist, and take his torch. 
PHILLIPPE'S CELL 
He lies on the floor; he sees the light of a torch, coming to him like sunrise... and then he hears a voice -- 
ATHOS Phillippe...? 
LOUIS D'Artagnan! 
AT THE OTHER END OF THE CORRIDOR 
Louis' voice echoes down to the veteran Musketeers and Phillippe, in the Iron Mask. 
LOUIS' VOICE I am not angry with you.  I knew you would lead me to them, and so you have!  Lay down your sword, and I will not punish you!  I will let you retire in peace -- to live out your days in the countryside!  And I will give your friends a swift execution, if you surrender now. 
The words bounce down the long corridor; then silence. D'Artagnan stands holding his sword, staring away from his friends, toward the King and his gang of young Musketeers. 
ARAMIS D'Artagnan.  Perhaps you should accept his offer, for we are dead anyway. 
PORTHOS He is right, d'Artagnan. 
Athos says nothing; but when d'Artagnan looks at him, he lowers his eyes in shame for ever having doubted d'Artagnan's loyalty and friendship. 
Phillippe speaks up, from behind the Iron Mask. 
PHILLIPPE Wait.  Bargain me to Louis, for all your lives.  You have done your best.  Let me go, and let all of you find peace. 
D'ARTAGNAN No.  Even if I could give up my friends, I could never give up my son. 
This hits them like a bombshell -- and suddenly it all makes sense; d'Artagnan's loyalty to Louis, his dogged hope that he could somehow influence him toward goodness.  We see their stunned faces, each in turn:  Athos, Aramis, Porthos, and Phillippe. 
D'ARTAGNAN I never had any idea you existed... until they found you.  And in all that time, I never had a moment's pride as a father -- until now. 
D'Artagnan and Phillippe embrace, lost father to lost son. 
From the heavily barred door to their rear comes a powerful pounding; the Bastille's soldiers are trying to break it down.  Time is running out. 
Aramis looks back down the corridor toward the door to the outside, barred now by Louis and his young guards, their long muskets bristling like spikes; and yet that way is the only possible hope for escape to the outside. 
ARAMIS D'Artagnan... Those are young Musketeers down there.  They have been weaned on our legends.  They revere us -- it is an advantage. Why don't we charge them? 
D'ARTAGNAN I trained those men myself.  They will stand and fight.  But if we are to die, let it be this way. 
He draws his sword and points it into the air.  Aramis lifts the tip of his sword to join that of d'Artagnan.  Porthos does too... and then Athos joins them. 
ATHOS One for all.  All for one. 
PHILLIPPE If I could have a blade, then I would be please to run with you. 
D'Artagnan gives Phillippe a dagger.  They look at each other.  Then d'Artagnan begins to scream.  The others take up the shout.  Then they step around the corner, and charge. 
THE LAST CHARGE OF THE MUSKETEERS 
We film it in all its glory, a visual feast:  the Last Charge of the Musketeers.  Their capes swirl about time, their hair flies, their legs take on new life. 
At first the young Musketeers at the end of the corridor are frozen in surprise; their youthful Lieutenant is awed by the dashing, beautiful bravery of the thing. 
LIEUTENANT Magnificent valor... 
LOUIS Shoot them!  Shoot them! 
Louis grabs a musket from one of the reluctant soldiers and fires:  SSSBOOM!  With the first explosion of gunfire the others pull their triggers; the powder in their weapons flashes and crashes... 
The musket balls fly down the hallway, sparking off the stone walls and floor, ricocheting, punching holes through the capes and flesh... but still the Musketeers charge like the young men they once were -- still are, in spirit. 
In the confines of the Bastille's stone corridor the noise is deafening, and the space in front of the guards is filled with the dense gray smoke of the gunpowder.  None of them can see anything beyond it... and all is quiet. 
LIEUTENANT Draw blades! 
The King's Guards draw their swords, and wait; are all the old Musketeers dead? 
Slowly the figures emerge from the smoke -- in SLOW MOTION, walking now, no need to run.  All are wounded, but all are still alive. 
The Four Musketeers, along with Phillippe, move slowly and steadily toward the blades of the young Guards; a fight to the death?  So be it. 
But the young Lieutenant will have none of it; as one of his men lifts a sword to plunge it into the chest of d'Artagnan, the young Lieutenant bats the sword down, with his own. 
LIEUTENANT Stop! 
He steps forward toward d'Artagnan; but instead of thrusting his sword he salutes with it. 
His men follow suit, saluting and bowing to the courage of these men they have grown up wanting to follow. 
King Louis, for the moment, is frozen. 
D'Artagnan looks back at Phillippe; he has bullet holes in two different places at the edges of his clothes, but he is unwounded. 
Then d'Artagnan sees Louis, with his long dagger, leaping at Phillippe. 
D'ARTAGNAN NO! 
D'Artagnan throws himself between the two twins and hurls Louis backwards, then spins to Phillippe. 
