MARGOT AT THE WEDDING 
Written by 
Noah Baumbach 
1   INT. TRAIN CAR - DAY                                          1 
A cashier hands a boy, 13, his change across a counter. The boy stuffs the coins in his pocket. He lifts the cardboard tray with two hot dogs, a bag of chips, and two Cokes. This is Claude. 
We follow him: He carefully carries the meal down the aisle, balances it in one hand as he opens the door. 
The train noise blares as he traverses the area between cars. 
He enters the new car repeating the balancing act. He waits while a man shoves his back-pack onto the metal rack above the seats. Claude hurries a bit more now, his concentration alternating between the food and the path. 
He sits next to a brunette woman.   He hands her a hot dog. 
CLAUDE Here. 
He's met by a severe and pinched face. The eyes have black circles -- there is a scar above her lip. Claude instantly blushes and mumbles: 
CLAUDE Sorry. 
He gets up and hurries a few seats further. He slides next to a pretty brunette woman, late 30's, with straight shoulder length hair. Her name is Margot. 
MARGOT That was quick. 
CLAUDE I sat next to the wrong person. 
MARGOT Really?   Where? She stretches up and peers over the seats.   He grabs her shirt. CLAUDE Please don't look.    She'll see you. MARGOT Careful with my blouse. 
2   CUT TO:                                                       2 
Margot is sleeping, her head against the window. Claude listens to his iPod. He takes out the earphones, gets up, and walks to the front of the car. Opens the door and goes between cars. 
The train roars and screeches. Claude screams.   He stops, looks around. He screams again. 
3   CUT TO:                                                       3 
Claude and his mother gaze out the dirt streaked window at a river. An old castle-like structure emerges from the water. 
Houses are run-down. In the distance there's a power plant. Electrical lines crisscross the sky. Claude puts his finger against the glass and traces the wires. 
CLAUDE Will the wedding be crowded? 
MARGOT I don't know. I think she doesn't know anyone anymore. 
CLAUDE How long has she known Malcolm? 
MARGOT Only a year. 
CLAUDE Is that short? 
MARGOT (pointedly) Would you marry someone you'd only known a year? CLAUDE I'm not going to ever get married. MARGOT I can't say I have a lot of hope for the whole thing. CLAUDE Why are we going then? 
MARGOT We're supporting her. 
CLAUDE I thought she wasn't speaking to you. 
MARGOT No...no...I wasn't speaking to her, but I'm over it. 
4   EXT. FERRY DOCK - DAY                                           4 
MARGOT No, I wasn't. 
MALCOLM I had a full beard   for a while and then when I shaved   it I left this part for last, you   know to see how it looked, and...    It's meant to be funny. 
Margot nods politely.   The sound of tires on gravel: 
8   EXT. HOUSE - DAY                                                  8 
The trunk slams shut. The Volvo is parked in a driveway alongside a grey Colonial house that sits above the water. They lift bags. An old mutt ambles toward them. 
Pauline emerges from the house. She's pretty like her sister, late 30's. She walks briskly toward them. Margot smiles and opens her arms, but Pauline passes her and dips down to embrace Claude. She kisses him on the lips. 
PAULINE You're so handsome. 
Now she hugs Margot.    They both tear up.   Claude beams. 
PAULINE I never thought I'd get you here. 
A loud thud. They all turn toward the property fence. A large pile of dead flowers and rotting plants has been dumped into their yard. There's whispering and movement through brush on the other side. Margot looks at Pauline with concern. PAULINE You're arriving in the midst of a drama. Ingrid, make sure Wizard is inside. Malcolm trudges over to the trash cans. INGRID It's the Voglers. 
PAULINE The neighbors want us to cut down our tree. 
She indicates a large oak that extends up and into the adjoining property. 
MARGOT No, that's our tree! 
INGRID They think it's sick and rotting their property. 
PAULINE We're having the ceremony under it. 
MARGOT You took the swing down. 
MALCOLM Pauline thinks this is their way of trying to be friends. I think they resent us because we're... 
He searches for the word, but can't come up with anything. He says wearily: 
MALCOLM I don't know what we are. 
9   INT. CLAUDE'S GUEST ROOM/INGRID'S ROOM - DAY                     9 
Claude sits on the squeaky bed, a yellow bracelet on his wrist. An old flip-clock hums on the night-table. A door opens onto a bathroom which has another door open onto another bedroom. 
Ingrid sits on her bed observing Claude. She holds a realistic-looking stuffed rooster in an old-style tuxedo. INGRID This is my room. CLAUDE Okay. INGRID Do you like showers or baths? 
CLAUDE Showers.   What about you? 
Ingrid shrugs.   She says, already bored with the topic: 
INGRID I don't care. 
10   INT. STAIRWELL/MARGOT'S GUEST ROOM - DAY                    10 
Pauline and Margot carry bags up the stairs. Margot now wears a knit red bracelet. They're tentative with one another. 
PAULINE Is Malcolm what you thought he'd be? 
MARGOT Well, I didn't know what to -- 
PAULINE The moustache is temporary. He left it for last when he was shaving. It's meant to be funny. 
MARGOT He told me. 
PAULINE Yeah... 
INGRID Mom, can you hide this please. 
Pauline puts the record sleeve on top of a shelf. 
PAULINE (for Margot's benefit) Malcolm played with Ric Ocasek once? 
MALCOLM In the late `80's. It was a solo gig after he left the Cars. 
CLAUDE So, you're kind of famous. 
Malcolm reddens. 
MALCOLM No. No. Believe me, I'm not. I used to want to be, but, No. Do you want to be famous? 
MARGOT Claude wants to be very famous. 
MALCOLM Well, make sure you can handle rejection. I can't. For me, expectation just turns to disappointment. So, ultimately I'd rather not try. It'll all go black for us soon enough anyway. 
PAULINE Claude, ignore him. 
Pauline sneaks a look at Margot who is watching Malcolm with an expression of either contempt or confusion. Pauline grows uncomfortable. She says to Claude: 
PAULINE When your mother moved to New York she used to send me books and records. She sent me REM's Murmur... MARGOT And the Pixies. 
PAULINE And X. She was very cool your mother. 
MARGOT You only liked top forty. 
PAULINE Yeah, but I love REM now. 
Margot takes off her reading glasses and rubs her eyes. 
MARGOT I don't really listen to music anymore. 
PAULINE I was dating that guy, Horace back then. Remember him? 
MARGOT Was that the guy who liked to rough you up? 
PAULINE No, that was our dad. 
Pauline and Margot crack up laughing.   Malcolm raises an eyebrow at Claude. 
MARGOT Our father used to strip down to his skivvies and beat us with a belt. 
MALCOLM That man had a sexual screw loose. 
PAULINE It's awful -- that stuff that happens to kids. Malcolm was fondled by a male baby-sitter. MALCOLM Just use that information however you want... PAULINE Sorry. We're with family.     I figured... Claude looks at Malcolm.   Malcolm doesn't meet his eyes. 
PAULINE I think Becky got it the worst. 
MARGOT Did she ever. Raped by the horse trainer... 
Margot breaks into laughter. Pauline spits her seltzer back into the glass. They both laugh hysterically. Tears stream down Margot's face. Claude watches. 
12   EXT. PATIO - NIGHT                                         12 
Malcolm, Pauline, Margot, Claude and Ingrid sit with a homosexual couple, Alan, 40's, and Toby, 30's, and their son, Bruce, 8, at an old wooden table eating crab, salad and soup. Part of Alan's face is paralyzed. 
TOBY Alan rolled over in bed and looked at me and he said I can't feel my face. It took three doctors before we knew it was Bells Palsy. 
ALAN They say a brush of wind can do it. 
TOBY Feeling is slowly coming back. 
JIM'S VOICE Yes. 
MARGOT This is happening and you have to get your mind around that. 15   INT. CLAUDE'S GUEST ROOM - NIGHT                             15 Claude sleeps in bed.    Margot gently touches his face.   She whispers: MARGOT Are you asleep? 
CLAUDE (softly) Yes. 
MARGOT Will you remember this? 
CLAUDE Yes. 
MARGOT I just talked to your dad... 
Claude's eyes remained closed, but he smiles. 
MARGOT I'm only going to tell you if you won't remember. 
CLAUDE Okay. 
Margot hesitates.    She changes her mind and says thoughtfully: 
MARGOT Everyone finds you so funny and charming. I always get compliments about you. 
Margot stands. She catches herself in a warped mirror and smears some eye make-up off of her face. 
MARGOT Are you having fun?    Is it nice to see Pauline? 
CLAUDE (opens his eyes) Yeah, I really like her. 
MARGOT Yeah.     She is crazy though. CLAUDE In what way? MARGOT She's really berserk. Maybe it's hormones. You don't notice anything different about Pauline? CLAUDE No. 
MARGOT She's pregnant -- she told me. But she's keeping it a secret -- I mean from Malcolm and even Ingrid. Which I think is unforgiveable. Now she'll have to marry him. What's she planning -- to get married and not drink champagne? Then she'll just be lying. I guess she's afraid she'll miscarry. She probably will. I think on some level she's ambivalent about the marriage and that's why she's not telling him. 
CLAUDE Are you stoned, Mom? 
MARGOT Maybe a little. 
CLAUDE I don't like it. 
16   INT. MALCOLM AND PAULINE'S ROOM - NIGHT                     16 
Water runs from the bathroom. Malcolm cradles a glass of whiskey and stands nude in front of a full length mirror. 
MALCOLM (shakes his head) My scrotum is longer than my penis. 
He turns around and looks at his ass. Pauline walks out of the bathroom. She wears mens pajamas, the top open. 
MALCOLM It's sweet how Claude looks up to me. He waits for a reaction and gets none. 
MALCOLM Margot doesn't seem as crazy as you made her out to be. PAULINE What she did to Toby and Alan tonight didn't seem crazy enough for you? MALCOLM I guess that seemed pretty crazy. 
PAULINE (immediately defensive) Well, she cares deeply. 
MALCOLM Yeah, she's really worried about Bruce. 
PAULINE This has nothing to do with Bruce. She thinks everyone is autistic. 
Malcolm is about to speak, but instead he halts, paralyzed. 
PAULINE What? 
MALCOLM Nothing, you keep changing your position -- I'm just trying to figure out if I should agree with you or not? 
PAULINE Well, can't she be both, care deeply and be crazy? Do people have to be all one thing? 
PAULINE We didn't invite them to the wedding. 
MARGOT You're not really friends. 
PAULINE We're friends enough that's it's awkward. Maisy baby-sits for us all the time. 
MARGOT He's doing the interview with me in town on Friday. Did I tell you, he and I are collaborating on a screenplay, an adaptation of one of Dick's novels. 
PAULINE No, I didn't even know you knew he was up here. 
Malcolm takes one of Ingrid's markers and doodles. 
MALCOLM Is he even a good writer?    Why do people care about him? 
PAULINE You're competitive with everyone. It doesn't matter if they even do the same thing as you. (to Claude) He's competitive with Bono. 
MALCOLM It's true. I don't subscribe to the credo that there's enough room for everyone to be successful. I think there are only a few spots available and people like Dick Koosman and Bono are taking them up. 
Pauline looks at Malcolm's drawing.    It's a graphic image of a man fucking a woman in the ass. 
PAULINE Malcolm, what would ever make you think that's something to draw right now? 
Claude and Ingrid stare at it.    Malcolm balls it up. 
MALCOLM Sorry, I wasn't thinking about it. Sorry, Margot. 
28   INT. VOLVO - DAY                                               28 
The car pulls into a driveway.    A modern house.   Dick and Maisy come out to greet them. 
DICK You found it! 
Margot, the kids and Pauline get out. We stay in the car with Malcolm. Pauline comes to his window. 
PAULINE What's up? 
MALCOLM I don't want to do this... 
PAULINE Come on, don't be that way. 
Maisy sits on the hood of the car and Ingrid introduces her to Claude. Dick approaches Margot -- she turns back to Pauline. 
MALCOLM I'm not being that way -- I just don't feel like it. I'm going to go back and... I have work to do. PAULINE Dick doesn't care that you don't make any money. MALCOLM Is that why you think... That's not why I'm...I just hate swimming. I really hate it. It's disgusting to me. My mistake was saying I'd do it to begin with. You have fun. PAULINE Fine, we'll have fun. 
Malcolm's gaze goes to Maisy's breasts.    Margot watches him watch her. 
MALCOLM People always pee in the pool. 
PAULINE I don't think Dick and Maisy pee in their pool. 
MALCOLM I'll bet you 500 dollars there's pee in that pool. 
29   EXT. DICK'S POOL - DAY                                       29 
Pauline and Margot float beneath Claude who stands above them. 
PAULINE To the end and back.   Claude, you say Go. 
CLAUDE Okay. 
Margot knocks on the side of her head with her hand. 
CLAUDE Go! 
MARGOT You didn't see it. I saw it. You've got a problem. 
PAULINE I'm not worried. (pause) We could teach Claude how to swim. 
MARGOT He won't want to do it.   It's too late. 
Pauline waits for more -- nothing comes. She takes a couple steps into the room. She holds out her hand for the glass. Margot passes it to her. Pauline sips. 
MARGOT Are you supposed to be doing that? 
PAULINE No. 
She hands it back. 
PAULINE I liked your last story in, was it Harpers? The one about mom. I was very...I liked it very much. 
MARGOT It wasn't really about mom. 
PAULINE I thought it was. Anyway. Why don't you want Claude to know how to swim? MARGOT I didn't say I didn't want him to. Why do you care? It's not in his life -- we're New Yorkers. If he wants to learn when he's older, he can. I'm curious why you're so interested in the whole thing. PAULINE I'm not. I'm just... As a safety thing and...I'm... Forget it. (pause) (MORE) 
PAULINE (CONT'D) It's interesting -- this is the first time Dick has invited us over. 
MARGOT But are you really friends? 
PAULINE Kind of. We're neighbors. We employ Maisy. I mean I don't care, I just think it's interesting. (pause) Are you excited about the talk? I thought I'd come if that's okay. My friend, Agnes, asked me, "What's it like to have a celebrity as a sister?" I said, I've got no problem with celebrity. Alice Munro taught at Bennington and was kind of a friend of mine. 
MARGOT I'm not a celebrity. 
PAULINE Well, you're well known. 
MARGOT To a very few people. 
PAULINE Just accept the compliment. 
MARGOT I guess I didn't realize it was a compliment. 
31   EXT. FOREST - LATE DAY                                     31 
Margot walks the path alone. She hugs herself as a light breeze kicks up. Her footsteps echo in the trees. The little pink sneaker still lies in the dirt. She crouches down and takes it. 32   CUT TO:                                                    32 CLOSE: A note is being written. 
"...and if you are acting with any sort of abuse toward your child I will call the police." 
The word "any" is then underlined twice.   The page is torn from her little brown book. 
33   EXT. VOGLER HOUSE - EVENING                                   33 
Margot's fist is raised about to knock on the front door. She stops herself. She puts the note on the Welcome mat and holds it in place with the child's shoe. She wanders around to the back of the house. She looks into a lighted window: 
It's a white tiled bathroom. 
A wet brown animal body covered in clear plastic is balanced on the sink. Mr. Vogler tears into the plastic. The carcass is butterflied open exposing the innards and ribs. 
Mrs. Vogler runs the tub. She pours salt from a box in the water. The man slides his hand in her waist-band. She rubs against him. 
Margot chews her cuticle. 
The man saws the legs. His arm jerks back and forth, straining to cut through the bone. Sweat pours down his temples. 
Margot raises her hand to her face and presses against the window. She peers through her fingers. The blade pierces the bone with a violent release and the hoof falls to the floor. 
Margot moves to another window.   The pig's face now looks at her. 
Blood drips and leaks into the crevices of the tile. The woman brandishes a syringe filled with an orange liquid. 
MARGOT Out with Paul and Malcolm and Dick. 
CLAUDE Are kids coming? 
36   INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT                                  36 
Claude's POV through the window: Dick and Margot in the back seat of the Volvo. Malcolm and Pauline the front. The ignition turns. 
Claude leaves the window. We hear the car rumble away. Claude and Ingrid sit on the couch, hamburgers in front of them. Maisy is cross-legged on Wizard's dog bed and chews a stalk of celery. 
INGRID Who do we know who's gay? MAISY How do I know what gay people you know. CLAUDE Alan and Toby. INGRID And Bruce.     He's gay and Aspergers. 
CLAUDE I don't know if Bruce is gay. 
INGRID He might be, it's very common. 
CLAUDE Your mom is pregnant. 
INGRID No she isn't. 
CLAUDE She is. 
Ingrid looks stricken. 
MAISY How do you know that, Claude? 
CLAUDE She told my mom. But you can tell - - she's hormonally weird. 
MAISY Holy shit, Ingrid you're going to have a baby sister or brother. 
INGRID (quietly) My mom thinks your mom is unreliable. 
CLAUDE Who cares. 
But he does. Claude bites into his burger. His eyes fix on the crease between Maisy's breasts. Maisy says to Claude: 
MAISY Do you think your mom is fuckable? CLAUDE I don't know. MAISY I think she's hot, your mother. I'd do her if I was gay. I might anyway. I mean if she came on to me. CLAUDE She won't. 
INGRID I'm not going to do anyone. 
There's a scraping sound on the window.   The kids turn quickly: 
CLAUDE What was that? 
INGRID Is it scary? 
37   EXT. FIELD - NIGHT                                          37 
The three kids lie in the grass and watch through the slats in the fence: The Vogler family eats at an outdoor table. A pig turns on a spit over a smoky barbecue. Mrs. Vogler says something and the kids and Mr. Vogler laugh. 
Maisy climbs over Claude to see better. He feels her breasts press against his back. Suddenly he swats crazily at his ear. Ingrid is poking him with a blade of grass. 
38   INT. VOLVO - NIGHT                                          38 
Malcolm drives quickly with Pauline next to him. He's smoking with the window open, Dick and Margot in the backseat. 
PAULINE Margot used to never speak. I remember when we went on a double date in high school, that kid Ron asked you if English was your first language. 
MARGOT It's true. I used to think I might have some kind of brain defect. PAULINE You thought you were aphasic. MARGOT I'm still not sure. PAULINE Oh, Jesus, Margot. MARGOT It's very possible, Paul. 
PAULINE I just...your diagnoses sometimes irk the hell out of me. 
Malcolm lights another cigarette -- the car jerks sideways. 
CLAUDE I just want to keep it. 
INGRID I left a piece of skin in a movie theater once so it could watch movies all its life. 
CLAUDE I don't know if it's the same thing. 
INGRID Are you obsessed with Maisy? 
CLAUDE No. 
INGRID You're always staring at her tits. 
Ingrid traces Claude's upper lip with her finger. 
INGRID You have a moustache. 
CLAUDE My mom bleaches it. 
INGRID I'm going to kiss your cheek and then you kiss mine. 
CLAUDE I don't want to do that. 
INGRID Why not? CLAUDE Because it's pointless... Claude hears footsteps creak downstairs. He goes to the door and peers out: Pauline and Malcolm, a little disheveled and dirty, climb the stairs. Neither speaks. Malcolm goes into the hall bathroom. Pauline into their room. Running water groans through the old pipes. 
INGRID Where are you going? I thought we were having a conversation. 
CLAUDE You're starting to annoy me. 
40   INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS                                    40 
Claude walks -- he passes an open door: Malcolm is shaving his moustache -- the electric razor whirring. 
41   INT. MARGOT'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS                              41 
Claude enters.   It's empty. Her brown notebook rests on the bedside table.   He hesitates then opens it: 
It's packed with writing -- a nearly indecipherable cursive in black ink. The name Claude can be made out on the page. 
Claude takes the book and climbs up into bed. He nestles against the pillow and squints to read the writing. 
MARGOT (O.S.) What are you doing? 
Claude startles.   Margot stands in the doorway with a glass of water. 
CLAUDE I didn't think you came home. 
MARGOT Where would I be? 
CLAUDE Can't Josh and Dad come to the wedding? 
MARGOT We've been through this.    Go to bed. Claude slides down to the floor.    He hesitates. CLAUDE Can I sleep in here? MARGOT No, honey. CLAUDE We can put a pillow between us. 
MARGOT Okay.   Just for tonight. 
Claude takes a long pillow and places it like a barrier in the bed. We stay on him as he waits. Finally Margot climbs into the covers in a nightgown. 
MARGOT When you were a baby I wouldn't let anyone else hold you. I think that may have been a mistake. 
42   EXT. HOUSE - MORNING                                       42 
Malcolm, his moustache gone, a cigarette dangling from his mouth, hammers in a stake at the base of a collapsed, white tent. A workman holds a pole steadily. 
Pauline sets up chairs around a series of tables. Ingrid idles a few feet away. They're in the midst of talking: 
CLAUDE What's the Forum? 
MARGOT Like a cult. 
CLAUDE She was in a cult? 
MARGOT Years ago. She and Lenny also followed some guru who was a follower of the Mukdananda who made her drink his bath water. Who knows what she's doing now. INGRID (O.S.) Margot!   Claude! 44   EXT. FIELD - DAY                                          44 Claude hacks his way through the tall weeds. CLAUDE Wizard! We move past him, obscured by grass, Pauline and Ingrid yell: 
PAULINE/INGRID Wizard!    Wiz! 
Margot enters the frame.   The kids walk ahead. 
MARGOT Wizard!    Here, boy! 
She stands a few feet away from Pauline.   The kids can be heard shouting in the distance. 
MARGOT How long has he been gone? 
PAULINE I don't know. Ingrid brought him in last night, but we couldn't find him this morning. 
MARGOT Oh boy. 
PAULINE Did you tell Claude I'm pregnant? 
MARGOT I don't know. 
PAULINE You did. 
MARGOT I guess I said something. 
PAULINE You did. You don't have to tell him everything. 
MARGOT He wants to know. If I don't tell him, he figures it out. 
INGRID (O.S.) Where is Wizard? Ingrid approaches with Claude. PAULINE I don't know, honey. Ingrid sinks into her mother's body.   Claude and Margot walk ahead. 
CLAUDE You didn't let him go out into the road or something where something could've happened to him? 
MARGOT Why would you think I'd do something like that? That's awful. 
CLAUDE I just...    I'm just making sure. 
MARGOT That's a terrible thing to say to me. 
CLAUDE I didn't mean on purpose, I just meant maybe in case...you knew something. I'm sorry. 
45   INT. KITCHEN - DAY                                         45 
Margot enters and opens the refrigerator. She gets out a white wine bottle. She turns around and jumps, startled. 
MARGOT Woa! 
Malcolm sits at the table, eating saltines out of the box, a pad and paper in front of him. 
MALCOLM Hey, sorry. I'm here. 
MARGOT No, I...    I should've looked. 
MALCOLM I'm just writing my vows. Trying to do something appropriate but also funny -- not jokey, more character based humor. Margot pours herself a glass of wine. She looks to Malcolm to see if he wants some. He shakes his head. She takes a long drink. Silence. MALCOLM You having an okay time? MARGOT Oh, yeah.    Besides Wizard getting -- 
MALCOLM Yeah, we'll...we'll find him...or else, I don't know... 
MARGOT We won't. 
She waits for Malcolm to jump in.    He doesn't.   Vogler says softly, but sternly: 
VOGLER The roots are growing into our property. It's rotting, it's killing our plants. 
PAULINE We had a tree doctor out and he said it was healthy. 
Pauline smacks Malcolm's arm. 
PAULINE Would it hurt you to say anything? 
MALCOLM What?   What do you want from me? 
PAULINE You're making me do the whole fucking thing. 
MALCOLM You brought up the tree. 
PAULINE He brought up -- 
She stops herself.   She says to Vogler: PAULINE I'm sorry... This was better thought-through back at the house. Pauline's gaze goes above Vogler's head -- like Margot described earlier. He runs his hand through his hair as if something might be caught in there. PAULINE We were wondering if you and your wife -- I'm sorry I forgot her name -- would like to come over for... 
VOGLER You should ask her. She makes the plans. I'm going to go in now. 
He tramps inside.   The screen door bangs. 
MALCOLM I felt like you didn't give me a chance to say what I wanted to say. 
Pauline hits him in the chest and starts to walk away. Malcolm comes after her, his rage growing. 
MALCOLM I want to punch that guy in the nose! 
PAULINE You've never hit anyone. 
MALCOLM I have too! 
PAULINE Who? 
MALCOLM Lots of -- You don't know them. They're not around because I've punched them. 
A smile breaks across Pauline's face.   Malcolm seethes. 
MALCOLM Don't laugh, Pauline. It's not funny. I'll fucking punch your sister. 
Malcolm clenches his fists.    He points at Vogler's place. MALCOLM The threat is not out there. It's in our house. It's sleeping in my studio. I mean, I wouldn't actually hit her, but I feel...I feel like doing it. She's such a fucking idiot. PAULINE She's not an idiot.    You might not like her -- 
MALCOLM She is. She is an idiot!    You're an idiot. 
PAULINE Jesus. 
MALCOLM You're both fucking morons. I'm so fucking... I'm trying so hard. You don't give me any credit. 
PAULINE What is wrong? 
MALCOLM I don't know, I have the emotional version of whatever bad feng shui would be. I don't know. You tell me, you understand this shit. 
PAULINE Did you drink your teas? 
MALCOLM Yeah, I drank my fucking teas! Don't judge me now. Really, I think when you look back at this you're going to see I'm not acting like a crazy person. That this is the right reaction. In proportion with what is going on. This is right! 
Malcolm looks around furiously. The only thing available to him is a leafy stalk. He pulls on it, but it won't uproot. He tears the leaves off in a rage. 
PAULINE You have the most oddly self- conscious form of rage I've ever -- 
MALCOLM I hate you. Exhausted he approaches her.   He says, still with anger: MALCOLM Let's make love. 
MARGOT I get self-conscious opening presents in front of people.    This weekend is about Pauline. 
PAULINE Oh...poo.     Open it Margot. 
Margot slowly unties the white ribbon and peels away the tape. Pauline groans: 
PAULINE Come on, get to it. 
Margot takes out a pair of furry slippers. 
MALCOLM Those look warm. JIM I remember last year in Vermont you said your feet were freezing. Her eyes find Claude who watches his parents carefully. She leans across the table to Jim and they kiss chastely and briskly on the lips. 
MARGOT Thank you. 
49   INT. JIM'S CAR - NIGHT                                      49 
Jim drives with Margot in the passenger seat. 
MARGOT I already have slippers. 
JIM Well, that's okay.   Two sets are fine, right? 
MARGOT It makes me sad to get a present that I already have. 
JIM Why? 
MARGOT It makes me feel like you don't know me. 
She jams her pinky into her ear trying to get at the bug. 
JIM What's wrong with your ear? 
MARGOT I asked you not to come. I was so clear and you did it anyway so blithely. 
JIM We need time alone to sort this out. You can't just run away -- 
MARGOT Okay, so we're here.   I'm giving you this time. JIM (trying a joke) Well, now you're putting too much pressure on me. Jim smiles crookedly at her. She half-smiles back.   He takes a moment, preparing to speak. Then: JIM What is that? His headlights catch a woman cowering at the roadside. They pass. 
MARGOT Keep driving. 
Jim slowly pulls over to the shoulder. 
MARGOT No...no...no. Jim, no. 
JIM Let me just... 
Jim gets out of the car.     A sobbing woman crouches, cradling a bloody dog. 
WOMAN Please help me. 
Jim comes toward her. 
WOMAN Please help me. He got hit by a car. Please help me. 
Margot opens her door and steps out. 
MARGOT (warily) Jim... 
Jim kneels down by the whining pit bull.    The woman screams: 
WOMAN Help me! 
MARGOT Careful, he might bite you! 
MARGOT (suddenly) Paul, what are you doing getting married to this guy? He's not good enough for you. He's so coarse, he's like guys we rejected when we were sixteen. You know...don't make a mistake like this. (pause) I'm sorry, maybe I have no right to say that, but you know I'm truthful so... Would you rather I lie? 
PAULINE Who should I be with then? 
A smashing sound. Margot steps outside: Two hooded figures turn over a recycling can, glass smashes on the ground. Garbage is strewn across the driveway. 
MARGOT (O.S.) Hey! Hey, you! You pick that up. I will call the police. This is our property. Pick that up. 
Pauline remains seated at the table, stunned.    Margot comes back inside. 
MARGOT Creeps. 
53   EXT. DRIVEWAY - MORNING                                     53 
Malcolm crams the trash back in the cans. He sees something amidst the milk cartons and corn husks. He reaches down and lifts up a severed pig's hoof. 
54   EXT. FIELD - MORNING                                        54 
Claude and Ingrid idle in the tall grass calling to Wizard. 
CLAUDE Dogs usually come back, I think. 
INGRID What happened to your dad? 
CLAUDE He went to Vermont. 
INGRID He didn't want to come to the wedding? 
CLAUDE I don't think he could...    I think he couldn't. (pause) You want to see me dance? INGRID Okay. Claude dances. The gangly weeds blow around him. There's a rustling in the brush. A patch of fur catches Ingrid's eye. INGRID (under her breath) Wizard... 
The animal is gone. 
A figure appears in the distance behind Claude. The boy, the Vogler's son, approaches shirtless in swimming trunks. Ingrid's attention goes to him. 
CLAUDE You're not watching. 
The boy comes into focus. He holds a dead squirrel by its tail. Ingrid backs up next to Claude. The boy stops a few feet away and hurls the squirrel at them. The kids jump back as it lands at their feet. 
BOY Where are you going? 
CLAUDE (stopping) We have to get home. 
BOY Is that your girlfriend? 
CLAUDE No, she's my cousin. 
BOY You a fruity? 
CLAUDE Um...no. 
BOY (to Ingrid) You a fruity? 
INGRID (with certainty) No. BOY We will hurt you. Claude takes Ingrid's arm and they start to walk away. INGRID He's a Vogler. 
CLAUDE He's just a stupid boy. 
Claude sneaks a look over his shoulder -- the boy follows. Claude's gait quickens. 
INGRID Hold it, I have a rock in my sandal. 
CLAUDE Come on, Ingrid. 
Ingrid slows, lifts her leg and removes a sandal. The boy is behind them. Claude yanks Ingrid's arm and she topples over. 
MARGOT (nods) I told him to go to Vermont without me. 
DICK I'd love to see him tell a linear story for a change. Jim never wanted to make it easy for the reader, did he. The nicest man I've ever met, but he can't play the game. MARGOT I'm not joining him. I'm going to stay here and then...we'll see. Right. Okay? DICK I didn't ask you to do that. (pause) The guy's pointing at us... 
58   CUT TO:                                                     58 
Margot and Dick sit on stools holding microphones in front of rows of fold-out chairs. Only a few empty seats remain. Pauline and Claude sit in the back. 
DICK I'm very interested in your story "Middle Children." 
Some people applaud, but it trickles off before it gets started. 
DICK The father is a loathsome character yet we also feel a strange sympathy for him. 
MARGOT Yeah, well I was very interested in exploring a father-daughter relationship. While he clings desperately to her, suffocates her really, he also silently resents the responsibility of parenthood. 
DICK There's this sexualized push-pull with Daphne which I find -- 
MARGOT He craves isolation really. I always thought of him as someone who so over identifies with everyone around him that he begins to lose all sense of himself. 
DICK You make his only recourse to abandon his family, including his beloved daughter. 
MARGOT Right, that's true.   That's true. DICK I write historical fiction so I don't have to answer to this, but I wonder for someone who writes so nakedly about family, how autobiographical is this portrait? 
Margot rests her lips on the tip of the microphone. 
MARGOT My father was a loving person. He had his days, of course, but...he was devoted to us as children. I wouldn't have written this portrait were it true. 
Pauline nods slightly. 
DICK But I'm interested in how the father could be in fact a portrait of you. Margot stares, dumbstruck. 
MARGOT Umm...I don't... Why do you assume it's based on... We all take from life. I had to have our refrigerator repaired the other day at our apartment in Manhattan. I was alone with a guy, I think he was Puerto Rican, sent over by...Whirlpool, I think it is who made our fridge. Although he said he worked for an independent organization who Whirlpool subcontracts. I think he was retarded. There was an anger in him and suddenly I became afraid for my life. I called Jim at NYU. I asked him to come home. 
Margot stops.   Her face is awash in sweat. 
Pauline takes Claude's hand and presses it to her chest.    His eyes widen, fixed on his mother. 
MARGOT It might be Frigidaire... I'm sorry... I don't... I'm not sure what I'm... I think I need to take a moment... 
She stands and walks off the stage. She realizes she still has the mike. She goes back and places it on her seat. MARGOT (almost incoherently) You're an asshole... 
59   INT. BOOKSTORE BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER                      59 
Margot grabs a pill from her pocket, puts it on her tongue and drinks from the faucet. There is a knocking. Margot opens the door. Claude looks up at her. Pauline and Dick wait in the background. 
MARGOT I need to be alone right now, okay? 
CLAUDE What's wrong? 
MARGOT I don't know. I'll tell you sometime. Go on. 
CLAUDE Are you sure? 
MARGOT Yes. Go with mom.    I'll see you later. 
CLAUDE You said, mom. 
MARGOT (snapping) But you know what I mean. Go with Pauline. Jesus, do I...do I need to spell it out for you? (she points) Go. With. Her. 
60   INT. CHURCH - DAY                                            60 
A simple, spare space, empty except for Pauline and Claude. 
MARGOT It is true. You're never helpful. I wish I had taught you better manners. 
CLAUDE I can try to make popovers.   If I can remember how. 
MARGOT Don't bother. She looks at him with grave disappointment. CLAUDE Why are you looking at me like that? 
MARGOT I just see how much you've changed. Your body language. You used to be rounder and more graceful. You're so stiff now. So blase. 
CLAUDE What do you mean? 
MARGOT (retreating) I can't explain it. 
Margot shakes her head.   She's suddenly distraught. 
MARGOT It's okay though. 
CLAUDE Uh huh. 
Claude looks devastated. He starts toward the beach. Margot's eyes well up -- she says, trying to make things better: 
MARGOT You're still handsome. 
62   EXT. HOUSE - SAME                                             62 
Pauline marches toward Malcolm.    Malcolm wears the safety goggles and revs the chainsaw. 
PAULINE Are you able to do this yourself? 
MALCOLM Pauline, do you want me to cut it down or not? PAULINE Watch the tent. The jagged blades pierce the trunk.   Pauline crunches her face. Malcolm stops suddenly. He walks around the tree and inspects the bark. MALCOLM (indicating his fleece) I liked how it looked on Vogler. Pauline starts to say something -- stops.    Then: 
PAULINE I think it's over between Dick and Margot. He was so cruel to her today. And poor Claude had to watch it all. She should just get out of the marriage and then she can fuck whoever she wants, you know. It's cowardly. And Dick Koosman. What a choice. I mean...you know? 
MALCOLM I agree. I hate the idea of Dick fucking Margot. 
PAULINE What does that mean?   You want to fuck Margot? 
MALCOLM Pauline, that's not what I said. 
PAULINE I know you have a crush on her, you already told me that. 
Malcolm reddens and starts the chainsaw again.   They yell over the noise: 
MALCOLM I didn't say that. I said I thought she was attractive after you grilled me. She has no interest in me anyway. Not that it would matter if she did. 
PAULINE Have you ever done anything like that. MALCOLM What do you mean? PAULINE Have you ever cheated on me? MALCOLM No! Malcolm shuts the motor. MALCOLM Can I do this? 
PAULINE Those emails you had with that student of mine. 
MALCOLM (exhales) Uh huh. 
PAULINE Did that...I know you said it was nothing. 
MALCOLM It was. 
PAULINE I just...     Can you say it again? 
MALCOLM I just did. Now, can I cut down the tree? 
PAULINE You never did anything with her? 
MALCOLM No. She emailed me after we met at that reading at the college and... You know we were friends. 
PAULINE Right, just a regular friendship between you and a twenty year old girl. 
The deafening shriek of the blade as it cuts into the tree. Malcolm is soaked in sweat. Ingrid watches from a few feet away. 
In the distance -- Dick's orange BMW grinds into the driveway. Maisy hurries toward him. 
Ingrid says, buried in the noise: 
INGRID There's Dick. 
Malcolm sees Dick.   He pushes the blade harder into the wood. 
INGRID Is it almost ready? MALCOLM (distracted) Almost. Maisy is talking to her father. Dick spots Malcolm. He immediately starts toward him. Malcolm hesitates. Cold fear creeps up his neck. 
Dick speeds up. Malcolm backs up slowly -- drops the chainsaw -- and bolts toward the water. Ingrid watches, confused. 
Dick takes off after him. Malcolm stumbles down the long wooden stairs to the beach. 
Malcolm runs wobbily -- he pants, already out of breath. Sweat pours down his face and body. 
Dick's gait is swift -- his arms stiff, bent at the elbow. His jeans make a swish swish. He takes the stairs two at a time. 
Malcolm grasps the railing, moving as fast as he can sideways, trying not to fall. He reaches the beach, his feet sinking in the sand. He trips and topples forward. 
He looks up -- Dick lunges. 
Dick pounds Malcolm's head and face.     Malcolm throws his arms up and tries to block the punches. 
MALCOLM I didn't do anything!    I didn't do anything! 
DICK Fucking sleazebag! 
Dick gets up.   He kicks Malcolm hard. 
DICK I don't ever want to see you again. 
Malcolm balls himself up against a rock.    He cries: 
MALCOLM Fuck off, dickhead. 
Dick marches forward and kicks Malcolm again hard. 
MALCOLM Ow! Dick lights a brown cigarette and walks away.    Malcolm screams: MALCOLM Fucking dickbag! She's lying! He touches his face and sees the blood on his fingers. MALCOLM (choking on tears) Oh, man. 
There's a rustling noise in the wind. Malcolm looks -- a mud- and sea-coated Wizard watches him with a panting smile. 
66   CUT TO:                                                     66 
Wheels sputter in the gravel. Dick's car peels out with Maisy in the passenger seat. Claude and Margot watch from the porch. 
67   INT. LIVING ROOM/DINING ROOM - SAME                         67 
Pauline is seated at the table with place cards, flowers, silverware, napkins, dishes. Margot enters. Claude follows. 
MARGOT Come with me to New York. 
PAULINE I can't talk about it -- 
MARGOT Okay, but you can't marry him. You have to go now. We can think about what to do with the baby -- 
PAULINE (stands) Margot, I can't -- 
MARGOT Don't turn vague, listen to me -- 
PAULINE I want you to pack all your things and get out of here. You can take our car and leave it at the ferry. 
The speedometer needle wavers around 30. Margot clutches the steering wheel. Claude looks morose. Pauline and Ingrid sit stonily in the back seat. The Volvo jerks into the oncoming lane and back. Margot draws a deep breath. 
CLAUDE I thought you couldn't drive. 
MARGOT (irritated) I can drive. Why does everyone say that? I used to drive. 
They inch up a small hill. A car cascades down past them. The Volvo shakes. Pauline suddenly snaps out of her daze: 
PAULINE We have to call people and cancel. 
INGRID What happened? Can I still sing? 
Margot rolls down the window. 
MARGOT (to Claude) You do smell. 
CLAUDE Well, I'm not wearing any deodorant. They reach the top of the hill, over the crest, and descend. The vehicle picks up speed. Margot presses down on the brake. MARGOT Shit. 
CLAUDE What? 
MARGOT I don't think... (she pumps again) No... We don't have brakes. 
PAULINE (resigned) The brakes are bad, that's right. 
CLAUDE What does that mean? 
MARGOT What do you think it means? 
CLAUDE I mean, what can we do? 
The car coasts faster down the hill. 
CLAUDE Mom. 
Margot places her arm stiffly across Claude's front. 
Pauline wraps her body around her daughter. 
Margot swerves into the shoulder -- she makes a sharp turn into the forest and crashes through the bramble and muck. The car slows until it comes to a sudden stop at the base of a tree. 
70   CUT TO:                                                   70 
Margot and Claude, Pauline and Ingrid trudge through the bony white trees of the forest -- their bags weigh them down. They're all covered in sweat and there's dirt caked on their feet and ankles. 
MARGOT I ruined these shoes. Pauline's face screws up. She's suddenly in pain.   She races behind a tree. Margot follows. INGRID Mom, are you okay? PAULINE (O.S.) Don't look! 
Margot stops. 
PAULINE (O.S.) Shit! 
INGRID Mom, what happened? 
PAULINE (O.S.) Nothing. 
Margot steps to see around the trunk. The kids follow behind. Pauline removes her panties from under her skirt. She tosses them in the brush. 
PAULINE Fuck. Margot turns to the kids.   Ingrid hides a smile. 
CLAUDE Did she poop in her pants? 
MARGOT It happens to everyone. Not just babies. It'll happen to you too someday. 
71   EXT. FERRY - DAY                                            71 
MARGOT Nothing. Just then I felt so much love for you. 
75   CUT TO:                                                    75 
Pauline tucks in Ingrid who lies next to Claude. Margot sits on the other bed scribbling in her brown notebook. Pauline marches around and across to the other side of the room. She snatches the book out of Margot's hands. 
MARGOT Hey! 
PAULINE You cannot write about this.   You can't have it. MARGOT I wasn't writing about you. PAULINE You already took a part of my life, you can't have any more. And that goes for Ingrid and Malcolm and Wizard. We all own our own rights. They're not for sale. MARGOT Give it back. 
Pauline glances at the book. 
PAULINE If I could read your handwriting I'm sure I'd be furious. But if I ever see a story that involves a hotel room or any of this shit, I will fucking take your bowels out. 
Pauline thrusts the book back at Margot -- 
CUT TO: 
The kids sleep in one bed.    Margot and Pauline lie awake in the other. 
PAULINE You've now successfully ruined two of my marriages. 
MARGOT You're not wearing any underwear. 
PAULINE It's hot, I'm pregnant.    Move over. Jesus. 
MARGOT You're not hot, your feet are cold. 
PAULINE Stop touching me. I am so hot. Feel my head. 
Margot puts her lips to Pauline's forehead. 
MARGOT You have a fever. 
PAULINE I don't have a fever... I'm pregnant...are you always like this? MARGOT Get used to it... Mom and Becky share a bed -- you and I will probably get the other. 
PAULINE You should just go to Vermont. 
MARGOT I was thinking -- you know if you want -- you and Ingrid could go to Vermont. Keep Claude company and Jim adores you. 
PAULINE You don't like Malcolm because you're not attracted to him. 
MARGOT Will you do it? 
PAULINE No. I won't do that for you. 
MARGOT (pause) Did you two talk about me in town? What did you say? 
PAULINE (pause) I told him you often change your mind. 
76   INT. BAR/RESTAURANT - MORNING                            76 
Cheap plastic tables. A small karaoke stage in front. Margot, Claude, Pauline and Ingrid sit at the bar. Margot drinks her wine with ice. She wears Jim's sweater. The kids have Cokes. The remains of ketchup-soaked french fries in a plastic red basket lie between them. 
A man with a mullet climbs up on the karaoke stage. The music begins. The man sways and sings "On and On" by Stephen Bishop. He croons sweetly and beautifully. Claude's eyes moisten. Margot swallows a blue pill and chases it with the wine. She takes her son's hand and whispers: MARGOT I'm sorry, sweety. There's something wrong with me. PAULINE I'm going to call him. Margot quickly turns to her sister. MARGOT No.   Don't. I'm telling you. 
PAULINE I...I need some clothes and things. 
MARGOT He should get the hell out of our house. 
PAULINE Okay. I'll tell him to get the hell out of our house. 
Pauline walks over to a pay phone. 
