FADE IN: 
EXT. A JAIL IN MEXICO - DAY 
It's an early Friday morning and a patrol car drives up an unpaved road and parks next to a gutted police car on cinder blocks. The camera pans with the OFFICER as he exits his car and walks up to a ramp leading to the babay blue JAIL HOUSE. He is carrying a greasy bag of fast food. 
INT. JAIL LOBBY - DAY 
The Officer enters the lobby, tosses the bag of food to his PARTNER who is sitting at a desk. He grabs a tin cup and walks over to barred entrance to Block A. Twenty or so CRIMINALS, from drunks to drug dealers are sleeping peacefully in their cell on Block A. The Officer rattles the tin cup between the entrance bar. 
INT. JAIL CELLS - DAY 
The inmates stir, rubbing their dirty faces and trying to sit up. The camera dollies slowly down the narrow hallway of the block which has three cells: Two small ones side by side, and one bigger cell that faces the block entrance. The sound of scribbling and business dealing can be heard from inside the cell. It is AZUL jottin ginto a business ledger while chatting on his cellular phone. His cell is equipped with a small desk and a refridgerator. He hangs up the phone and continues writing. 
INT. JAIL LOBBY - DAY 
The Officer with the tin cup sits in a couch across from his partner, who is now eating, and reads a magazine. 
INT. JAIL CELLS - DAY 
Azul picks up his phone and makes another call. He talks business. In the other cell, prisoners are getting up and looking around. Azul hangs up the phone and writes. 
EXT. EL MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
A gorgeous, bikini-clad BABE struts slowly into a tighly framed glamour shot. She pauses, takes a deep breath, then dives a 'perfect ten' dive into a house-side moat. She swims long, slow motion strokes around the moat as the camera tracks alonside her, lovingly admiring her tan lines and hydrodynamic build. She slides out of the water and walks up a cobble stone walk, dripping as she passes a seated GENTLEMAN in a white suit. His face is unrevealed. As she enters the house, he sets his drink down by a phone. He lifts up the receiver and dials. 
INT. JAIL CELLS - DAY 
Azul's phone rings. He looks up at it, startled, as if no one has ever called him before. He glances at his watch, and then back at the phone, hesitating to answer it. He looks around the cell block as if someone might be playing a trick on him. Finally he answers it, pausing before saying hello. It is El Moco. 
MOCO (V.O.) Good morning, Azul. Do you know who this is? 
AZUL (into phone) Moco... What the hell do you want after all these years? 
EXT. EL MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
MOCO is sitting on his porch drinking tequila. 
MOCO (into phone) We've got a lot to talk about. I'm just a few town away with a whole new gang. I heard you were nearby so I thought I'd give you a call, amigo. 
AZUL (V.O) That's sweet of you, asshole. I don't suppose you could get me out of there, and then maybe hand me over my share of money. 
MOCO (into phone) Yes, I figured you'd want your money, my friend. That is why I have called you. I heard you were getting out soon, and figured I should deal with our situation. But do you really need me to help you get out? From what I hear, you're running quite a business out of your cell with a phone and some loyal men. It keeps you well protected I hear. Not a bad idea. I may try that myself sometime. 
AZUL (into phone) There are two men here with guns. Did you send them? 
EXT. EL MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
Moco, glancing at his watch, hangs up. 
INT. AZUL IN JAIL CELL - DAY 
Azul hangs up the phone and kicks his Bodyguard awake. The Bodyguard gets up and peers out the bars as Azul hides in a corner. 
INT. TALL MEN IN HALL - DAY 
The Tall Men walk steady and alert, ready to kill. They enter Azul's block and scope out the cells. 
The Bodyguard, seeing the tall men, retrieves his shotgun from under his mattress and grabs his machete from under the sink. He stands ready to fight. 
The Tall Men move slowly towards the big cell, somewhat cautious. They see the Bodyguard a second too late, for he sticks the shotgun between the bars, and shoots one of them before they can react. The shot one stumbles back into his buddy's arms. Azul's Bodyguard, amused by all this, opens his cell door effortlessly, and walks out as if to greet them. The Tall Men hear the sound of the other cells opening, so they turn around. The other prisoners on the block begin exiting their cells, carrying guns and Molotov cocktails. The Tall Man drops his gun. Finally, Azul exits his cell carrying his phone. The Bodyguard forces the Tall Men into an empty cell, closing and locking the door. 
Azul presses the #-button on his phone. Moco's phone number is automatically redialed. 
Moco answers. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
AZUL (into phone) I'm still here, Moco. And so are your little friends. But not for long. They have something they want to scream to you. Listen close, because you're going to repeat it to me when I come to visit you. 
INT. TALL MEN IN CELL - DAY 
The cellmates throw their Molotov cocktails into the cell. Moco hears the men screaming as they burn to death. Azul is holding the phone at arm's length into the cell. 
INT. JAIL LOBBY - DAY 
The Guards exchange glances when they hear the screaming, they smile and shrug, then go back to what they were doing. As Azul and his Bodyguards exit the block, the Guard with the magazine stands up as if to stop them, but Azul tosses him a wad of money and the guard sits back down to count it. 
EXT. JAIL - DAY 
A blue truck races towards the jail. 
Azul exits the jail carrying a shotgun. His Bodyguards get inside the Tall Men's truck and start it. Azul waits patiently for his blue truck. 
As the blue truck pulls up, two little rat-like VATOS exit the blue truck, one handing Azul a guitar case. Azul tosses it onto the hood. The Bodyguards wave as they drive away. Azul waves back. He opens the case, revealing an arsenal of weaponry. Azul notices one piece is missing. One Rat quickly pulls the missing weapon from his jacket and replaces it in the case. Azul is unamused. He grabs his MAC-10 machine gun from the guitar case and aims it at the thieving Rat's head. 
BARTENDER (nodding) Tell me, why would I need one little guitar player when I've already got a full band? 
Mariachi gives him a silent "what" look. 
The BARTENDER motions to a YOUNG MAN sitting near the small draped table. 
The Young Man removes the drape revealing a keyboard. Puts on his mariachi hat, dips his fingers into his shot glass and rubs his fingers together (as if warming up for the big show). He hits a few switches in EXTREME CLOSEUP as... 
... Mariachi adjusts himself to the seat. 
The Young Men gently taps one switch and the keyboard sounds like an accordion, pulsing out a beat. He then presses another switch and a horn section swells to a crescendo and waltzes the familiar riffs. He adds the string and horns accents by banging on the keys. He sounds awful. 
Mariachi grimaces slightly then turns back to the Bartender who seems to enjoy it. 
The Keyboard Mariachi finishes his song, sits back down. 
BARTENDER (CONT'D) (nodding with satisfaction) There you see? Either I can pay one guy to sound like a full mariachi band... 
Mariachi picks up his guitar and lays some money next to his full drink. He looks disappointed. 
BARTENDER (CONT'D) ... or I could spend the same money only get one little guitar player... Understand? 
MARIACHI (walking away) Thank you, sir. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: (2) 
BARTENDER You want to earn a living? Get a real musical instrument. 
The Bartender picks up the bottle of soda pop Mariachis left behind and offers it to the other men on the table. They say no, pay, and leave. The Bartender offers it to the MEAN DUDES at the table. 
They all shake their heads no. 
The Bartender shrugs and dumps it. 
EXT. CORONA CLUB - DAY 
Mariachi walks out and looks up and down the street. He decides to walk south. 
As he walks down the sidewalk, the camera pans into a CLOSEUP of another guitar case that is moving towards the Corona Club. The camera falls back a little revealing the backside of Azul, dressed also in black. Azul walks into the bar. 
INT. CORONA CLUB - DAY 
We work for him. 
AZUL That's too bad. 
Azul turns to the mean Dude sitting to his left, and places the guitar in his hands. The Mean Dude is confused. 
AZUL (CONT'D) Hold it please. 
Azul opens the case and pulls out the MAC-10. The other two Mean Dudes are already reaching for their pistols. 
The Bartender ducks beneath the counter. 
Azul fires a million bullets into two of the Mean Dudes, (the other is holding the case in shock). Their chests explode, causing neat little dollops of flesh and blood fly everywhere. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
The Mean Dude holding the guitar case is frozen with fear. He manages to look up at Azul, who is watching the Mean Dudes die a slow, bloody death. The barrel of the MAC-10 is smoking. Azul turns slowly to the Mean Dude holding the case. Azul aims his MAC-10 in the Dude's face. Still frozen holding the case, he spends his last moments looking down the gun's barrel. 
INT. BATHROOM - DAY 
The shots caused Old Mean Dude to peer out from his stall as the toilet paper fell to the ground and started to roll across the floor. He now watches it roll as more shots ring out. He pulls up his pants and and walks toward the door slowly. He is sweating profusely. He slowly picks up the toilet paper, plotting his next move. It grows silent... He takes a deep breath and rushes out the door. 
INT. CORONA CLUB MAIN ROOM - DAY 
The Old Dude bursts into the room with a roll of toilet paper in his hand, and a sheet of sweat sliding down his face. 
The Bartender rises up from behind the counter. 
The camera dollies slowly by the dead Dudes. Their blood- bathed faces twisted into odd shapes and expressions. The camera continues to dolly to the one dead Dude still holding the guitar case. His face is a bloody pulp. The camera stops dollying to the old Dude's mixed drink. A hand is stirring it with a straw. The camera pans up the arm to reveal Azul, standing expressionless with his gun sling over his shoulder. 
Shot at 16fps the Old Dude quickly drops the toilet paper and runs back inside the bathroom. 
Azul turns to his guitar case and carefully chooses another weapon. He grabs the drink and tosses a napkin over his arm like a waiter, then casually follows the Old Dude into the bathroom. 
The Bartenders glance at each other. One pours a shot glass full of tequila and raises it to his lips to drink it. Shots ring out and the Bartender spills the drink over himself. 
Without warning Azul bursts from the bathroom and walks calmly to his case. He replaces the weapon, picks up the case and leaves. 
A few seconds pass before the bartender grabs the phone and furiously dials. 
(CONTINUED) 
Mariachi enters the run-down lobby of the motel. The Viejo Clerk at the counter is reading his yellowed newspaper. Mariachi sees the Pit Bull laying by the counter. 
MARIACHI Pit bull. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
VIEJO CLERK Yeah, pit bull. 
MARIACHI I need a cheap room for a week, and I'd prefer to pay you in a few days, after I've found some work. 
VIEJO CLERK Sí, later... 
MARIACHI Thank you... 
The Old Man hands Mariachi a key for the second floor. 
MARIACHI (CONT'D) Thank you, friend. 
As Mariachi walks away, the Clerk notices the guitar case and black clothes and he rereads the card Mean Dude left him. 
VIEJO CLERK (different tone of voice) Uh, excuse me señor? I forgot, I need a small deposit... 
Mariachi stops in his tracks. He turns back to the Clerk slowly... thinking. 
MARIACHI (walking back slowly) You can trust me. 
VIEJO CLERK I am very sorry, señor. But... how much can you spare? 
The dog is watching the event. 
MARIACHI (disappointed) I've only got a few pesos... I plan on finding work in town. 
VIEJO CLERK (grabbing money) Oh, that's enough for now, sir, thank you and... enjoy your stay. 
The Clerk deposits the money, slams the register shut, and continues reading his yellow paper. Confused, Mariachi pockets his empty wallet and turns to find his room. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: (2) 
The Clerk peeks over his paper, eyeing the guitar case as Mariachi goes. He hears the sound of Mariachi's footsteps trailing off. The old man drops the paper and bolts silently to the phone as he dials El Moco's phone number... 
INT. HOTEL COAHUILA LOBBY - DAY 
The men burst into the lobby and the old men tells them the room number. They run out into the courtyard with the old man following. The Pit Bull is uninterested in the action. 
EXT. COURTYARD IN HOTEL COAHUILA - DAY 
The Mean Dudes run up the courtyard stairs   and kick open the first door they come to and start blasting   into the room. Screams are heard. The men stand back, and   finally look down the steps at the Viejo Clerk who is waving   his arms frantically. 
VIEJO CLERK 127!!! Cuarto 127, pendejos!!! 
They run to the room numbered 127 and cautiously stalk towards it as they reload their guns. 
INT. MARIACHI'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Mariachi is sitting on his bed listening to all this. He bolts to the restroom and turns to the shower. 
EXT. HOTEL COURTYARD - DAY 
Shot of men still stalking, cocking pistols. 
POV shot of what men see, as camera nears the door. 
INT. MARIACHI'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Mariachi rushes out of the bathroom towards the door. 
MARIACHI'S POV As camera nears the door, doorknob starts to move. Remembering that he never locked the door, he jumps to the side of the door as... 
EXT. HOTEL COURTYARD - DAY 
Men kick open the door and burst into the room. 
INT. MARIACHI'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Low-angle shot as men burst in. There is no one in the room. Mean Dude #5 hears the shower and motions to keep it down and stalk quietly... They rush into the bathroom and start blasting. 
Mariachi slips out from behind the door and runs out. 
EXT. HOTEL COURTYARD - DAY 
Mariachi runs out of the room and jumps off the stairwell onto the courtyard in front of the Clerk. 
MARIACHI (pointing to his room) Cuidado, viejo! 
PENDEJOS!!! 
INT. MARIACHI'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Mariachi rushes in, grabs his jacket and puts it on. He grabs his guitar case and squeezes it tight, his eyes shut. Slow dolly into him, as his eyes open. 
CLOSEUP of plague on wall with mace and swords. He grabs the mace, swining it around a few times. He feels secure, now. He turns to leave. 
EXT. HOTEL COURTYARD - DAY 
Mariachi rushes out the door, he looks   down and sees the Mean Dudes entering the courtyard. He ducks   his head back just as they look up to see him. Mariachi runs   up a smal flight of steps, where he then tosses his guitar   onto a balcony, which he then jumps over to himself. 
The men rush up the steps shooting at the balcony. Bullets narrowly miss Mariachi as he climbs over the balcony to safety. 
INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - DAY 
Mariachi dashes down the hallway out onto a balcony. He sees no way down. 
EXT. COURTYARD BALCONY - DAY 
The Mean Dudes are climbing over the balcony like spiders. Mariachi runs back and slams his guitar into the first guy to make it over the balcony. His dummy falls down the stairs and over the narrow railing. The Dude splats on the ground in gruesome CLOSEUP. 
The old man looks over at him as he dies, then turns back as if nothing happened. Mariachi bolts back down the hill. 
EXT. FRONT BALCONY - HOTEL COAHUILA - DAY 
Mariachi is looking down the balcony trying to find a way to escape. Mariachi looks behind him. 
INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - DAY 
Mean Dudes barrel down the hallway reloading the guns. 
EXT. FRONT BALCONY - HOTEL COAHUILA - DAY 
Mariachi flings his mace over an electric cable, then stands on the balcony lip, placing his guitar between his legs. 
EXT. STREET SHOT OUTSIDE HOTEL - DAY 
Mariachi is sliding down the cable and turns back to see Mean Dudes firing guns at him. Bus stops in traffic and Mariachi grabs his guitar and jumps onto the hood of the bus. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Mariachi jumps onto another car and then down into the street. 
DOMINO (lowering the gun a bit) Thieves? 
MARIACHI (nodding) No way. They were well-dressed men. I checked into the cheapest hotel in town, no money, nothing of value, except this guitar and maybe this coat, which they could have taken when I left my room, but they didn't. They were only interested in killing me. 
DOMINO (lifting the gun back up) So why do you come here? You want to get me killed? 
MARIACHI I need a place to stay until I figure this out. They've got me mixed up with someone else. 
DOMINO And you've never seen them before? Not even in another town? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: (2) 
MARIACHI (long pause) Are you saying they followed me, a mariachi, here? What for? 
DOMINO Maybe they hate your music. 
Mariachi stares at her expressionless. She stares back at him. 
DOMINO (CONT'D) Maybe you were singing in another town, they hated your voice, and now they're trying to kill you. 
MARIACHI Are you serious? 
DOMINO (nodding) Yes. 
She laughes. 
MARIACHI Are you going to help me, or am I gonna have to die on your porch? 
DOMINO I have a room upstairs. My room. Don't touch anything. I'll be up after awhile and we can call a friend of mine. 
Mariachi shakes her hand. 
MARIACHI Thank you. I'll never forget this. 
He tries to kiss her hand. She slides it away and effortlessly slaps him. 
DOMINO This way. 
He follows her to a doorway revealing an unlit staircase. When he enters, the darkness swallows him as she shuts the door behind him. 
INT. UPSTAIRS DOMINO'S LOFT - DAY 
AZUL (into phone) Six. 
MOCO (into phone) What? 
AZUL (into phone) I've only killed six! You were always bad at math, Moco. I guess that's why you never paid me half of the money. You thought it all belonged to you. 
MOCO (into phone) I knew half was yours... I got greedy, my friend. It's my nature. But you!!! You are modest! You've killed ten of my men!! I know, because I'm having them buried in my yard right now. With my dogs and cats. 
AZUL (counting on his fingers, into phone) I killed six. But don't bother counting so soon. The number will triple by tomorrow. 
MOCO (into phone) I'm sorry things turned out this way. My friend. I got greedy. I should never have tried to kill you. It would have been cheaper for me to pay you. Now I've got to find ten new men. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
AZUL (into phone) Six. 
MOCO (into phone) Ten. 
AZUL (into phone) I tell you what. You give me my money, and I won't kill any more of your men... And I won't kill you. 
MOCO (takes a sip, into phone) No, it's too late for that. We're going to have to see this through. 
AZUL (into phone) Just like the Moco I used to know. Still wearing white? 
MOCO (looking down at his clothes, into phone) What do you think? 
AZUL (into phone) I think you should change clothes. I'd hate to ruin a white suit with your stupid blood. 
Azul hangs up. He gets dressed and leaves. The little Rats are about to follow, but one Rat walks over to get one look at the girls. The girls tease him, and when he tries to advance them, they pull guns and laugh as the Rat runs away. 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Domino walks by with a trash can. Mariachi is sitting on a barstool. 
MARIACHI I need to get my money back from that hotel. I'll be right back. 
DOMINO Are you crazy? If you go anywhere with that jacket and that case you could be killed. Leave that stuff here. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
The bar Assistant is cleaning the bar. He walks over to grab a few glasses and when he returns, Azul is sitting at the barstool Mariachi was on earlier. The Assistant looks around, wondering where Azul appeared from. 
ASSISTANT Can I get something to drink or eat? 
AZUL One beer. 
The Assistant grabs a mug and starts to fill it at the tap. He fills it halfway when... 
AZUL (CONT'D) In a bottle, wey. 
ASSISTANT (laughs) Sorry. 
He grabs a bottle and hands it to Azul, then lifts the mug, toasts and drinks it straight down. 
Azul drinks his straight down, too. 
AZUL (looking around) Isn't there a girl that works here? 
ASSISTANT Yeah, she owns the place. 
AZUL (heading a few bills to the Assistant) (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: AZUL (CONT'D) She owns it, now? Then she is Moco's girl? 
ASSISTANT (looking around) So-so. She's onto this new musician. 
Azul takes out a few more bills and hands them to the Assistant, and begins to stand up. 
AZUL Thank you. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Mariachi is out on the streets, returning to Domino's. 
EXT. BOYSTOWN SALOON - DAY 
As he crosses the street he notices Azul leaving the saloon with a guitar case. Mariachi runs into the saloon. 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Mariachi runs inside and checks to see if his case is still there. Domino comes downstairs. 
MARIACHI I just saw a guy with a guitar case like mine. It's him they want. 
He points the gun deep into Azul's face and cocks it. Azul closes his eyes. Mean Dude #5 lifts the lid. Azul hears a faint strumming sound, followed by the sound of the Mean Dude slamming the case shut. Azul opens his eyes. The Mean Dude resnaps the latches. SNAP... SNAP... SNAP-SNAP-SNAP!!! 
MEAN DUDE #5 (CONT'D) (walking away) Sorry.... 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
They walk away leaving Azul wondering what happened. 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Domino, Mariachi, and Assistant are standing at the bar. 
DOMINO Look, as long as you don't carry the case around, they'll leave you alone. It's that guy they're after. 
MARIACHI (putting on his coat) I better put this upstairs... 
He grabs the case and begins to take it to the stairs, but he pauses for it feels different to him. He slowly looks down at it. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Azul watches the Mean Dudes go and when tey turn the corner he puts the case on the ground to open it. 
EXT. AROUND THE CORNER - DAY 
The Mean Dudes are rounding the corner, but Mean Dude #5, who is last, snaps his fingers and motions to the others to keep quiet and to watch Azul 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Mariachi shakes the case, and puts it on the counter as if to open it... but he doesn't need to check it. He knows it's not his guitar. 
DOMINO What's wrong? 
Mariachi looks at her startled, then runs out of the bar with the case. 
EXT. AROUND THE CORNER - DAY 
Mean Dudes are watching Azul unsnap his case. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Azul opens the lid, revealing Mariachi's guitar. 
RAT #2 ... We didn't know what to do... 
RAT #1 ... We figured you could defend yourself!!! 
Rat #2 nods in agreement. Azul unsnaps one of the latches. SNAP! 
AZUL You thought I could defend myself... 
SNAP! SNAP! 
AZUL ... against three armed men... 
SNAP! 
AZUL ... using this? 
He opens the case and the guitar sparkles at them. The Rats exchange glances. They look at the guitar then back at Azul. 
AZUL (CONT'D) My case got switched with some maricon mariachi! 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
RAT #1 Where is this mariachi? 
AZUL He's dead by now... So, I want you to go look for my case. 
The two Rats are about to leave. 
AZUL (CONT'D) Leave me a weapon. 
Both Rats take out their guns. Azul takes Rat #2's gun. 
AZUL (CONT'D) That was disloyal of you to leave me out there. You should be as loyal to me as you are to each other. 
The Rats exchange glances, then aim their eyes back to the floor. Azul turns to Rat #2. 
AZUL (CONT'D) Are you loyal? 
RAT #2 (after glancing at Rat #1) Yes. 
AZUL (to Rat #1) Are you loyal? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
DOMINO They have never seen Azul... only Moco knows him. My friend says the description Moco gave his men was that he wears black, and carries a guitar case. Sounds like you, no? 
MARIACHI Couldn't you tell your friend that there are two people like that in his town? One is a killer, and one is a mariachi. 
DOMINO Only special people can talk to Moco. Besides, you've killed a few of his men, now. Your best option is to keep out of sight, stop wearing black, and to hide that stupid case until this is all over. 
EXT. MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
Mean Dude #5 comes in and approaches Moco. 
MEAN DUDE #5 He got away... but I got a good look at him. 
Moco takes out a cigarette and puts it in his mouth. 
MEAN DUDE #5 (CONT'D) Coca, Caca, Beto were killed. 
Moco takes out a match. 
MEAN DUDE #5 (CONT'D) He won't get away again, Moco. I promise. 
Moco lights his match across Mean Dude #5's face and lights his cigarette. Mean Dude #5 walks away, as Moco flicks his match at him in slow motion. 
INT. DOMINO'S LOFT - NIGHT 
Mariachi is about to lay on the floor. She tosses him a blanket. 
MARIACHI Are you always closed Monday nights, or did you close since I can't play my guitar tonight? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
DOMINO Mondays are my day off. Want to play a game? 
MARIACHI Sure. 
The phone rings. Domino gets up to answer it. Mariachi reaches under his blanket for a small mirror and combs his hair, putting spit in his hair to slick it down. He quickly stashes the mirror. 
DOMINO (into phone) Hello? 
DOMINO Well, Mauricio sent me flowers, then jewelry, then he gave me a job at his saloon, then he gave me the whole saloon... etc. 
MARIACHI He's still giving you things? 
DOMINO He'll never run out of money. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: (3) 
MARIACHI And you accept it all? What's the last thing he sent you? 
Domino walks over to the counter and picks up a key. 
DOMINO A motorcycle. 
Mariachi laughs. 
DOMINO (CONT'D) He wants me to ride out to his ranch when I've decided to be his. He thinks he's close to having me. 
MARIACHI Is he? 
DOMINO (pause) He was. 
She sits next to Mariachi. 
DOMINO (CONT'D) Not anymore. 
They kiss. She gets up and is about to turn off the lights. 
MARIACHI So, you really are from a poor family. 
CLICK! 
DOMINO (in the dark) I remember when I was growing up, we were so poor, that my brothers and sisters and I all slept on the same blanket stretched out across the floor. We had to sleep in a circle, with our fingers in each other's ears, to keep the bugs from crawling into them. 
MARIACHI (after a pause) Ay, wey... 
Domino laughs. 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Domino hands Mariachi a wad of money. 
EXT. ROAD TO MOCO'S - DAY 
The above scene intercuts back and forth with the arrival of Loco. Loco arrives at the gate, Mean Dude #5 opens the gate, they drive through. The truck is facing Moco so he can't see Mariachi yet. Mean Dude #5 closes the gate and walks over to the truck, opens the back door, and calls Moco over. Moco walks over to the truck and looks inside. 
EXT. TRUCK - DAY 
Mariachi is laying there unconcious, Moco puts his arm around Mean Dude #5, who is looking very proud, and Moco pulls out a cigarette and a match. 
MOCO That's not him. 
Moco strikes the match behind Mean Dude #5's head. Mean Dude #5 stops smiling. 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Domino is waiting on customers. She glances at her watch. A few seconds later she glances at it again. She looks very worried. 
INT. AZUL'S HIDEOUT - DAY 
Azul's Rats burst into the hideout. FOUR GIRLS pop up over the partition with guns. The Rats stop in their tracks. The girls sigh a "oh, it's them" sigh and slink back to bed. Top shot of them trying to wake Azul. Azul wakes up and looks over the partition. 
AZUL Where's my case? 
RAT #1 We couldn't find it. 
RAT #2 We heard they caught you and were taking you to Moco's ranch. 
RAT #1 ... so we came to see if it was true. 
Azul thinks a moment. He stands up. 
AZUL They caught the mariachi. 
Azul dresses, smiling... 
INT. MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
Mariachi is in a holding cell at the ranch. He twitches, finally waking up. 
He sees a GUARD outside and finds a way to escape. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
AZUL (CONT'D) If you want your mariachi back, come with me. 
DOMINO Why will you help me? 
AZUL Because you know where Moco's ranch is... I don't. 
Domino calls her Assistant. 
AZUL (CONT'D) You help me, I'll help you. 
DOMINO Let's go. 
They leave. The Assistant tends to the bar. 
ROAD TO MOCO'S 
They drive out to Moco's ranch in Azul's truck. Little do they know, they passed Loco's truck with Mariachi crouched in the passenger seat. He gets up after the truck passes. Mariachi didn't know it was Domino in Azul's truck or he could have turned around and kept her from going to Moco's ranch. 
They arrive at the gate and het out of the truck. 
DOMINO (over the gate) Mauricio!! 
Azul grabs Domino and points a gun to her head. He whispers to her... 
AZUL Play along... 
He kicks at the gate. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
AZUL (CONT'D) Open the gate or she's dead! 
The gate opens and we see Moco standing at a three-quarter stance, flanked with his men on both sides. Azul drags Domino in and faces her at Moco with a gun to her head. 
MOCO (to Domino) I'm sorry he used you to get to me, Domino. 
Azul cocks the pistol. 
MOCO (CONT'D) Azul, let her go and you'll get your money. 
AZUL Moco, give me my money or I ruin your clothes with her blood. 
Mariachi is still in Loco's truck. 
MARIACHI Stop here. 
Loco stops the truck and Mariachi gets out. Loco drives back when Mariachi motions for him to leave. Mariachi watches him go then dashes around the corner to the saloon. 
INT. AMADEUS - DAY 
Mariachi runs into the bar... 
MARIACHI Domino!!! We're leaving!!! Right now!!! 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED: 
The Assistant rushes over to Mariachi. 
ASSISTANT She's gone. 
MARIACHI Where is she? 
ASSISTANT Looking for you. 
Mariachi is about to race upstairs. 
ASSISTANT (CONT'D) She gave the case back to that guy. She left with him to find you. 
Mariachi tries to make sense of it all for a minute before grabbing the gun from under the counter and rushing upstairs. 
INT. DOMINO'S LOFT - DAY Mariachi grabs the key to the motorcycle and runs out. The motorcycle burns down the road. MARIACHI ON THE ROAD TO MOCO'S 
Mariachi barrels down the road on the motorcycle. 
EXT. MOCO'S RANCH - DAY 
Moco is walking away from the bodies. 
MOCO Bring that musician out here so he can be reunited with my Domino. 
Some men go to check. 
Cut back and forth with Mariachi coming. 
