MARTY 
Written by 
Paddy Chayefsky 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
NEW YORK CITY, 187TH STREET. A SUMMER DAY 
FADE IN: 
Just east of Webster Avenue in the North Bronx, 187th Street is a predominantly Italian community and the commercial avenue of the neighborhood. Fruit and vegetable stands, pizzerias, butcher shops, bakeries, cleaners and dyers and bars flourish. It is Saturday morning around eleven o'clock -- a market day. 
WOMEN, dark, gesticulative, with bulging cloth shopping bags, baby carriages. MERCHANTS at their improvised street stands, hawking their wares, disputing with their CUSTOMERS, roaring salutations to PASSERSBY. 
In the midst of all this, CAMERA HOMES IN on a typical neighborhood... 
BUTCHER SHOP. 
Delicatessens hang on the walls, wreathed with garlands of garlic. PATSY, the boss, a swarthy man of sixty, is flopping a chunk of beef onto the scale for the benefit of a forty- year-old MATRON. There are three or four other WOMEN in the shop, all talking to one another. A four-year-old BOY lazily chases a cat. 
The white refrigerator room door opens, and a second butcher, MARTY PILLETTI, comes out carrying a large leg of lamb. Marty is a mildmannered, short, stout, balding man of thirty-four. His charm lies in an almost indestructible good humor. He drops the leg of lamb onto the chopping block, reaches up for the cleaver hanging with the other utensils over the block and makes quick incisive cuts into the leg of lamb. He sets the cleaver aside, picks up the saw to finish the cuts as he chats with his customer, MRS. FUSARI. 
MRS. FUSARI Your kid brother got married last Sunday, eh, Marty? 
MARTY (sawing away) That's right, Missus Fusari. It was a very nice affair. 
MRS. FUSARI That's the big tall one, the fellow with the moustache. 
MARTY (still sawing) No, that's my other brother, Freddie. My other brother Freddie, he's been married four years already. He lives down on Webb Avenue. The one who got married Sunday, that was my little brother, Nickie. 
MRS. FUSARI I thought he was a big tall fat fellow. Didn't I meet him here one time? Big tall, fat fellow, he tried to sell me life insurance? 
Marty sets the five chops on the scale, watches its weight register. 
MARTY No, that's my sister Margaret's husband, Frank. My sister Margaret, she's married to the insurance salesman, and my sister Rose, she married a contractor. They moved to Detroit last year. And my other sister Frances, she got married about two and a half years ago in Saint John's Church on Kingsbridge Avenue. Oh, that was a big affair. Well, let's see now, that'll be about a dollar- seventy-nine. How's that with you? 
MRS. FUSARI Well... 
Mrs. Fusari produces an old leather change purse from her pocketbook and painfully extracts one single dollar bill and seventy-nine cents to the penny and lays the money piece by piece on the counter. From the rear of the shop a woman's VOICE rings out. 
WOMAN'S VOICE (off-screen) Hey, Marty, I'm inna hurry. 
MARTY You're next right now, Missus Canduso. 
MRS. FUSARI When you gonna get married, Marty? You should be ashamed of yourself. All your brothers and sisters, they all younger than you, they married and they got children. I just saw your mother inna fruit shop, and she says to me, "Hey, you know a nice girl for my boy Marty?" Watsa matter with you? That's no way. Now you get married. 
MARTY (amiably) Missus Fusari, Missus Canduso over there, she's inna big hurry, and... 
Mrs. Fusari takes her parcel of meat, but apparently she feels she still hasn't quite made her point. 
MRS. FUSARI My son Frank, he was married when he was nineteen years old. Watsa matter with you? 
MARTY That's the truth. 
JOE (turning a page) Can you imagine the effect this has on adolescents? 
RALPH So, Marty, let me tell you about these nurses... 
MARTY (reaching for two bottles of beer proffered by the Bartender) What nurses? 
RALPH The nurses Leo and me picked up last night. We got a date with them tonight. 
MARTY (moving off to Angie's booth) You still owe me ten bucks from last week, if that's what you're working up to. 
Joe turns another page in the girlie magazine. 
JOE Now that's something, eh? 
RALPH I used to go out with a girl like that... 
THE KID You should live so long. 
THE BOOTH. 
Marty joins his friend Angie and pushes a bottle of beer at him, pulling one of the pages loose from the paper Angie is reading. For a moment, the two men sit quietly, each poring over his separate piece of newspaper. 
ANGIE (without looking up) So waddaya feel like doing tonight? 
MARTY I don't know, Ang'. Wadda you feel like doing? 
ANGIE Well, we oughta do something. It's Saturday night. I don't wanna go bowling like last Saturday. How about calling up that big girl we picked up inna movies about a month ago in the RKO Chester? 
MARTY (not very interested) Which one was that? 
ANGIE That big girl that was sitting in front of us with the skinny friend. 
MARTY Oh, yeah. 
ANGIE We took them home alla way out in Brooklyn. Her name was Mary Feeney. What do you say? You think I oughta give her a ring? I'll take the skinny one. 
MARTY She probably got a date by now, Angie. 
ANGIE Well, let's call her up. What can we lose? 
MARTY I didn't like her, Angie. I don't feel like calling her up. 
ANGIE Well, what do you feel like doing tonight? 
MARTY I don't know. What do you feel like doing? 
ANGIE Well, we're back to that, huh? I say to you, "What do you feel like doing tonight?" And you say to me, "I don't know, what do you feel like doing?" And then we wind up sitting around your house with a coupla cansa beer, watching Sid Caesar on television. Well, I tell you what I feel like doing. I feel like calling up this Mary Feeney. She likes you. 
MARTY What makes you say that? 
ANGIE I could see she likes you. 
VIRGINIA So she say, "You're spilling the milk." So she kept talking about these coupla drops of milk I spilled, so she got me so mad, so I said, "Mama, you wanna see me really spill some milk?" So I took the bottle, and I threw it against the door. I didn't throw it at her. That's just something she made up. She goes around telling everybody I threw the bottla milk at her. I didn't throw it anywheres near her. Well, I was sorry right away, you know, but she ran outta the house. 
MRS. PILLETTI Well, I don't know what you want me to do, Virginia. If you want me, I'll go talk to her tonight. 
Thomas and Virginia suddenly frown and look down at their hands as if of one mind. 
THOMAS Well, I'll tell you, Aunt Theresa... 
VIRGINIA Lemme tell it, Tommy. 
THOMAS Okay. 
VIRGINIA We want you to do a very big favor for us, Aunt Theresa. 
MRS. PILLETTI Sure. 
VIRGINIA Aunt Theresa, you got this big house here. I mean, you got this big house just for you and Marty. And I thought maybe Tommy's mother could come here and live with you and Marty. 
MRS. PILLETTI Well... 
VIRGINIA Because I called up Tommy's brother Joe, and I said, "Joe, she's driving me crazy. Why don't you take her for a couple of years?" And he said, "Oh no!" I know I sound like a terrible woman... 
MRS. PILLETTI No, Virginia, I know how you feel. 
VIRGINIA (on the verge of tears) I just can't stand it any more! Every minute of the day! Do this! Do that! I don't have ten minutes privacy with my husband! We can't even have a fight! We don't have no privacy! Everybody's miserable in our house! 
THOMAS All right, Ginnie, don't get so excited. 
MRS. PILLETTI She's right. She's right. Young husband and wife, they should have their own home. And my sister Catherine, she's my sister, but I gotta admit, she's an old goat. And plenty-a times in my life, I feel like throwing the milk bottle at her myself. And I tell you now, as far as I'm concerned, if Catherine wantsa come live here with me and Marty, it's all right with me. 
Virginia promptly bursts into tears. 
THOMAS (not far from tears himself, lowers his face) That's very nice-a you, Aunt Theresa. 
MRS. PILLETTI We gotta ask Marty, of course. 
THOMAS Sure. 
MRS. PILLETTI (rises) You just sit here, I gotta turn the fire on under the cooking. (exits into the kitchen) 
VIRGINIA (having mastered her tears) That's very nice-a you, Aunt Theresa. 
THOMAS (calling to his aunt in the kitchen) How's Marty been lately, Aunt Theresa? 
MRS. PILLETTI (off-screen) Oh, he's fine. You know a nice girl he can marry? 
She comes back into the dining room, wiping her hands on a kitchen towel. 
THOMAS Oh, he'll get married, don't worry, Aunt Theresa. 
MRS. PILLETTI (sitting down again) Well, I don't know. He sits arounna house alla time. You know a place he can go where he can find a bride? 
THOMAS Well, there's the Stardust Ballroom. That's a kind of a big dance hall. Every Saturday night, it's just loaded with girls. It's a nice place to go. You pay seventy-seven cents. It used to be seventy-seven cents. It must be about a buck and half now. And you go in and you ask some girl to dance. That's how I met Virginia. Nice, respectable place to meet girls. You tell Marty, Aunt Theresa, you tell him, "Go to the Stardust Ballroom. It's loaded with tomatoes." 
THOMAS Marty, I don't know how to tell you how much I appreciate what you and your mother are doing, because the kinda thing was happening in our house was Virginia was in the kitchen making some milk for the baby. So my mother comes in... 
VIRGINIA Tommy, I promised the babysitter six o'clock. 
MARTY Tommy, before you go, I wonder if you gimme a little advice. 
THOMAS Sure, what? 
MARTY You're the accountant inna family, and I figure you might know about these things. My boss wantsa sell his shop to me. His kids are all married, you know, and he and his wife live alone, and they wanna move out to California where his daughter lives, so he wantsa sell his shop. He wants five thousand dollars down, although I think I can knock him downa four... 
VIRGINIA (off-screen, from deep in the kitchen) Tommy! 
THOMAS (rises) I'll see you at mass tomorrow. We'll sit down and we'll discuss the whole thing. 
MARTY All right, I'll see you, Thomas, because he wants an answer by Monday. 
THOMAS Sure. Thanks a lot about my mother. We'll work out some arrangement, because naturally I want to pay... 
MARTY Don't worry about it. 
THOMAS No, listen, that's my mother, I'm gonna pay for her... 
VIRGINIA (off-screen) Goodby, Marty! 
MARTY Goodby, Virginia! See you soon! 
Thomas has moved off to join his wife in the kitchen where we can hear them exchanging final protestations and goodbys with Mrs. Pilletti. Marty sits at the table, hands folded in front of him, stolid, pensive. 
THE KITCHEN. DUSK. 
Mrs. Pilletti bends over her steaming kettles. Through the window we see evening is gathering. 
MARTY'S BEDROOM. 
It's a small room with bed, chest of drawers, religious pictures, etc. Marty sits squatly on the edge of the bed, absorbed in thought. He stands, moves out into... 
THE GROUND FLOOR CORRIDOR. 
...and down that into... 
THE DINING ROOM. 
...now lit by the overhead neo-Tiffany lampshade and the beaded old-fashioned lamps. He crosses to the kitchen door, looks in on his mother, cooking away, turns, crosses back to... 
THE LIVING ROOM. 
He closes the sliding doors that separate the living and dining rooms. He extracts a small black address book from his hip pocket, flips through it, finds the page he wants, studies it intently. 
He sits on the chair by the phone, dials. 
MARTY (with a vague pretense at good diction) Hello, is this Mary Feeney?... Could I speak to Miss Mary Feeney?... Just tell her an old friend... 
He waits again. With his free hand he wipes the gathering sweat on his brow. 
ANDY (continues) Hey, Herbie... 
DR. KEEGAN What? 
ANDY You wanna have a drink before we start dancing? 
DR. KEEGAN Listen. You people go grab a table. I'll be back inna minute. I'll be right back. 
He turns and moves quickly through the crowded lounge, back to the swinging doors leading into the anteroom. CAMERA STAYS with Clara, Millie and Andy staring after him. 
ANDY So what do you say, Clara? Wanna see if we can get a table? 
CLARA All right. 
They turn and move toward the booths. 
BALLROOM. 
The dance floor is fairly dark. A romantic effect is achieved by papier-mâché over the chandeliers. Around the walls are the stag lines -- the MEN and waiting GIRLS. They stand singly or in small uneasy groups. There is constant flux and movement. 
CAMERA DOLLIES slowly past the stag line, moving past faces, short, fat, tall, thin stags. Some pretend indifference. Some exhibit patent hunger. 
CAMERA HOLDS ANGLING to include Marty, Angie near the end of the stag line. They are freshly shaved and groomed. 
MARTY AND ANGIE. 
They are leaning against the wall smoking, watching their more fortunate brethren on the floor in the background. 
ANGIE Not a bad crowd tonight, you know? 
MARTY There was one nice-looking one there inna black dress and beads, but she's dancing now. 
ANGIE (looking off-screen) There's a nice-looking little short one for you right now. 
MARTY (following his gaze) Where? 
ANGIE Down there. That little one there. 
REVERSE ANGLE PAST Marty and Angie across the dance floor toward the wall opposite, where three GIRLS are standing. Two are leaning against the wall. The third is facing them with her back to the dance floor. This last girl is the one Angie has in mind. She is a cute little kid about twenty and wears a bright smile. 
MARTY AND ANGIE. 
They stare off toward the three girls across the room. 
MARTY Yeah, she looks all right from here. 
ANGIE Well, waddaya say, you wanna ask them? I'll take the one inna green dress. 
MARTY I think this number is a little fast. Wait a minute. 
He tries a few tentative steps, testing for tempo. 
MARTY It's all right, I think. They still there? 
CATHERINE Hey! What are you doing here? 
MRS. PILLETTI I came to see you. How you feel? 
The two sisters quickly embrace and release each other. 
CATHERINE I gotta pain in my left side, and my leg throbs like a drum. 
MRS. PILLETTI I been getting a pain in my shoulder. 
CATHERINE I gotta pains in my shoulder too. I have a pain in my hip, and my right arm aches so much I can't sleep. It's a curse to be old. How you feel? 
MRS. PILLETTI I feel fine. 
CATHERINE That's nice. 
Now that the standard greetings are over, Aunt Catherine abruptly turns and goes back into the living room. Mrs. Pilletti follows. Virginia and Thomas remain in the doorway. 
LIVING ROOM. 
Catherine and Mrs. Pilletti enter and Catherine heads straight to a chair -- obviously her chair. It is an old heavy oaken chair with thick armrests. The rest of the apartment is furnished in what is known as "modern." A piece from House Beautiful here, a piece from American Homes and Gardens there. Aunt Catherine sits erect and forbidding in her chair. Mrs. Pilletti seats herself with a sigh in a neighboring chair. Thomas and Virginia remain off-screen in the hallway for a moment to hang up Mrs. Pilletti's coat. The two old sisters sit for a moment. 
MRS. PILLETTI Well, how's everything with you? 
Aunt Catherine grimaces to describe how everything is with her. 
MRS. PILLETTI My son Marty's fine. Everybody's fine... 
Thomas comes in from the hallway, stands in the back of the room, somewhat apprehensively. 
MRS. PILLETTI We gotta postcard from my son Nickie and his bride. They're inna big hotel in Florida on their honeymoon. Everything is very nice. 
CATHERINE That's nice. I gotta letter from my husband's cousin in Abruzzi. His mother died. 
MRS. PILLETTI Oh. 
CATHERINE Do you remember Emilio DiGiorgio, owned the tavern in Abruzzi? 
MRS. PILLETTI I don't think I remember him. 
CATHERINE Well, he died. You know who else died? 
MRS. PILLETTI Who? 
CATHERINE You know the old man upstairs in this house. Old Irishman, always drunk. He got pleurisy. He was inna hospital two weeks. He died yesterday. 
MRS. PILLETTI Well, I always like to visit you, Catherine, because you always got such cheerful news. 
Virginia comes into the living room with Thomas. They remain in the background. 
THOMAS (suddenly) Ma, you want something to eat, some tuna fish? 
MRS. PILLETTI Hey, why don't you go to the movie? Your mother and me, we're gonna be baby-sitter. 
MRS. PILLETTI You know what they say. They say things are no good in this house. Catherine, your son is married. Leave him in peace. He wantsa be alone with his wife. They don't want no old lady sitting inna balcony. Now I tell you what I think. I want you come live with me in my house with Marty and me. In my house, you have your own room. You don't have to sleep onna couch inna living room like here. We will cook inna kitchen and talk like when we were girls. You are dear to me, and you are dear to Marty. We are pleased for you to come. 
Catherine surveys her sister coldly. 
CATHERINE My son Thomas came to see you this afternoon, and he said to you he wants to cast his mother from his house? 
MRS. PILLETTI Catherine, don't make an opera outta this. The three-a you anna baby live in three skinny rooms. You are an old goat, and she has an Italian temper. She is a good girl, but you drive her crazy. Catherine, you are no fool. You know this is no good, an old woman living with a husband and wife. Two women inna same kitchen, anna house burns down. 
Catherine stands abruptly. She is deeply hurt. 
CATHERINE So I am an old garbage bag, put inna street. 
MRS. PILLETTI Oh, Catherine, please! Don't make a tragedy. You come to my house where you know you be happier yourself. 
CATHERINE It pains that they should do this. 
MRS. PILLETTI I know it pains. 
Catherine turns and meanders a few steps. The stiff edge of mordant humor that has been her one defense against life has deserted her, and she is just a hurt old lady now. 
CATHERINE These are the worst years, I tell you. 
She seats herself on an Eames chair. On her right, a Modern- Age lamp towers slimly. On her left is a Modern-Age endtable with a Modern-Age ashtray on it. The hardened muscles in her face suddenly slacken. 
MRS. PILLETTI (with deep compassion) Catherine, you are very dear to me. We have cried many times together. When my husband died, I would have gone insane if it were not for you. I ask you to come to my house, because I can make you happy. Please come to my house. 
CATHERINE These are the worst years. I tell you. It's gonna happen to you. I'm afraida look inna mirror. I'm afraid I'm gonna see an old lady with white hair, like the old ladies inna park, little bundles inna black shawl, waiting for the coffin. I'm fifty- six years old. What am I to do with myself? I have strength in my hands. I wanna cook. I wanna clean. I wanna make dinner for my children. Am I an old dog to lie in fronta the fire til my eyes close? These are the terrible years, Theresa! Terrible years! 
MRS. PILLETTI Catherine, my sister... 
Catherine stares distraught at Mrs. Pilletti. 
CATHERINE It's gonna happen to you! It's gonna happen to you! What will you do if Marty gets married?! What will you cook? What happen to alla children playing in alla rooms? Where is the noise?! It is a curse to be a widow! A curse. What will you do if Marty gets married?! What will you do? 
She stares at Mrs. Pilletti, her deep eyes haggard and pained. Mrs. Pilletti stares back for a moment, then her own eyes close. Catherine has hit home. Catherine sinks back onto her chair, sitting stiffly, her arms on the thick armrests. Mrs. Pilletti sits hunched a little forward, her hands folded nervously in her lap. 
CATHERINE (continuing quietly) I will put my clothes inna bag, and I will come to you tomorrow. 
The two sisters, somber and silent, continue to just stare at one another. 
THE STARDUST BALLROOM. NIGHT 
CAMERA PANS the crowd, picking up Marty and Clara dancing cheek-to-cheek on the crowded, darkened dance floor. The MUSIC rides over the top of the scene. 
MARTY You come up here often? 
CLARA I was up here twice before. Once with a friend of mine and once I came up alone. The last time... do you see that girl in the gray dress sitting over there? 
MARTY Yeah. 
CLARA Well, the last time I was up here, that's where I sat. I sat there for an hour and a half, without moving a muscle. Now and then, some fellow would sort of walk up to me and then change his mind. I'll never forget just sitting there for an hour and a half with my hands in my lap. Then I began to cry, and I had to get up and go home. 
MARTY I cry a lot too. I'm a big cryer. 
SIDEWALK. 
MOVING SHOT as they stroll toward the corner of Jerome and Burnside Avenues. 
MARTY Two o'clock in the morning he died. The doorbell rings, and I knew something was wrong right away. Because my room is onna ground floor inna front, you see, and I got outta bed, and I answered the door... 
CAMERA HOLDS as Marty, caught in his story, stops and continues intently. 
MARTY There was Mr. Stern. He had a house down about a block from us. He moved out though. My old man, he used to play cards with him and some other old guys. He's a Jewish feller. So he said, "Is your mother home?" So I knew right away there was something wrong. I was only eighteen, exactly eighteen years old, just the month before. So I said, "Is something wrong, Mr. Stern?" I was in my pajamas, you know? So he said, "Marty, your father died." My father died right inna middle of playing cards, right at the table. He had a heart attack. He had low blood pressure, my old man. He used to faint a lot. 
Suddenly he looks at Clara, rather startled. 
MARTY Boy, am I talking, I never talked so much in my life. Usually, everybody comes to me and tells me all their troubles. Well, I'm gonna shut up now, and I'm gonna let you get a word in... 
He takes her arm again, and they continue strolling toward the corner intersection in silence. 
MARTY Seventeen years ago. What I been doing with myself all that time?... Well, I'm talking again. I must be driving you crazy. Mosta the time I'm with a girl, I can't find a word to say. Well, I'm gonna shut up now. Because I'm not like this usually. Usually, I... well, here I go again. 
They reach the corner intersection. CAMERA HOLDS on Marty as he pauses again. He stares at Clara, confused at his strange loquacity. 
MARTY I can't shut my mouth... I'm on a jag, for Pete's sake. You'd think I was loaded... 
Marty stares at Clara, absolutely aghast at his inability to stop talking. 
MARTY I can't stop talking! Isn't this stupid?! 
He stands there in the middle of the sidewalk with PEOPLE moving past, back and forth. Marty continues to stare at Clara, his broad face widened by a foolish, confused smile. Clara regards him affectionately. 
MARTY (with sudden sincerity) You gotta real nice face, you know? It's really a nice face. 
CLARA Thank you. 
They stroll along farther up the noisy, jangled, trafficked Saturday night avenue. 
GRAND CONCOURSE LUNCHEONETTE. NIGHT. 
Once a candy store, now a soda fountain where booths have been installed in the rear. One wall of the luncheonette in front is covered with magazines from floor to ceiling. It is a nice clean joint, brightly lit. Several CUSTOMERS are occupying three of the four booths. 
BOOTH. 
They sit opposite each other in the booth. Each has a cup of coffee. Marty is still talking, but now he is apparently telling a story so funny that he can hardly get the words out. The hilarity has communicated itself to Clara. Her eyes are burning with suppressed laughter. Every now and then she has to gasp to control the bubbly giggling inside of her. 
MARTY ...so I'm inna kneeling position, and if you ever try shooting a BAR inna kneeling position, you know what I mean. I can't holda steady position. I'm wavering back and forth... 
He has to interrupt the narrative to control a seizure of giggles. Clara wipes her eyes and catches her breath. 
MARTY ...so the guy next to me, he's shooting from the prone position, and he's cross-eyed like I told you... 
He can't go on. He has to stop and cover his face with one hand. 
MARTY So just then... (stops to control himself again) ...so just then I hear five shots go off from the guy next to me... 
It's too much for him. He lets out a sudden guffaw and instantly smothers it under shaking shoulders. Clara hides her face in her hands and giggles desperately. Some of the other people turn to look at them. 
MARTY So then Mr. Gazzara -- he was a frienda my father -- he offered me this job in his butcher shop, and everybody pleaded with me to take it. So that's what happened. I didn't wanna be a butcher. 
CLARA There's nothing wrong with being a butcher. 
MARTY Well, I wouldn't call it an elegant profession. It's in a lower social scale. People look down on butchers. 
CLARA I don't. 
Marty looks quickly up at her, then back down. 
MARTY Well, the point is Mr. Gazzara wantsa sell his shop now, because he and his wife are lonely, and they wanna move out to California in Los Angeles and live near their married daughter. Because she's always writing them to come out there. So it's a nice little shop. I handle his books for him, so I know he has a thirty-five percent markup which is not unreasonable, and he takes home net maybe a hundred, hundred and fifty bucks a week. The point is, of course, you gotta worry about the supermarkets. There's two inna neighborhood now, and there's an A&P coming in, at least that's the rumor. Of course, mosta his trade is strictly Italian, but the younger Italian girls, they get married, and they don't stick to the old Italian dishes so much. I mean, you gotta take that into account too. 
CLARA It's my feeling that you really want to buy this shop, Marty. 
MARTY That's true. I do. But I'm gonna have to take outta loan inna bank eight thousand dollars. That's a big note to carry, because I have to give Mr. Gazzara a mortgage, and what I have to weigh is: will it pay off in the end more than I can make onna salary? 
Clara looks down at her fingers, her face alive and sensitive. She carefully assembles her words in her mind. Then she looks at the squat butcher across the table from her. 
CLARA Marty, I know you for three hours, but I know you're a good butcher. You're an intelligent, sensitive, decent man. I have a feeling about you like sometimes a kid comes in to see me for one reason or another. And some of these kids, Marty, in my classes, they have so much warmth in them, so much capacity. And that's the feeling I get about you. 
Marty shuts his eyes, then opens them quickly, bows his head. 
CLARA If you were one of my students, I would say, "Go ahead and buy the butcher shop. You're a good butcher." 
Clara pauses. 
MARTY (not quite trusting the timbre of his voice) Well, there's a lotta things I could do with this shop. I could organize my own supermarket. Get a buncha neighborhood merchants together. That's what a lotta them are doing. 
He looks up at her now. 
MARTY Wadda you think? 
CLARA I think anything you want to do, you'll do well. 
Tears begin to flood his eyes again. He quickly looks away. He licks his lips. 
MARTY (still looking down) I'm Catholic. Are you Catholic? 
Clara looks down at her hands. 
CLARA (also in a low voice) Yes, I am. 
Marty looks up at her. 
MARTY I only got about three bucks on me now, but I just live about eight blocks from here on the other side of Webster Avenue. Why don't we walk back to my house? I'll run in, pick up some dough, and let's step out somewhere. 
CLARA I really should get home... 
She twists in her seat and looks toward the back of the luncheonette. 
MARTY It's only a quarter of twelve. The clock's right over there. 
CLARA I really should get home, I told my father... Well, I suppose a little while longer. I wonder if there's any place around here I could put some makeup on... 
FIRST IRISH WOMAN "...Mary, for heaven's sakes, didn't you tell me that another one'll kill you?" 
BARTENDER I ain't seen Marty all night... 
SECOND IRISH WOMAN And her husband is a little bit of a man, isn't he? 
ANGIE (calling to the Bartender, but even more to himself) Where is everybody? I been walking around, I can't find anybody... 
FIRST IRISH WOMAN Well, last week Tuesday, she gave birth to the baby in Saint Elizabeth's hospital... a big healthy boy of nine pounds... 
SECOND IRISH WOMAN Oh, that's nice. So the doctor was wrong, wasn't he? 
FIRST IRISH WOMAN Oh, no! She died right in the hospital... 
SECOND IRISH WOMAN Oh, that's a sad story. And her husband is that little fellow, works in Peter Reeves. 
FIRST IRISH WOMAN That's the one. 
SECOND IRISH WOMAN Oh, that's a sad story. 
Angie has nothing better to do than give his attention to the last lines of the story. Perturbed, he turns and leaves. 
NEAR ELEVATED SUBWAY. NIGHT. 
With street NOISES over the scene, Marty and Clara walk along through the intricate understructure of the elevated subway toward Webster Avenue. 
STREET. 
Marty and Clara walk slowly along a side street in Marty's neighborhood. The streets are almost empty; perhaps an occasional PEDESTRIAN on the other side of the street. The cars are parked bumper-to-bumper in lines along the curb. The five-story apartment buildings are mostly dark, an occasional window lit. 
Marty suddenly stops and bends down; his shoe lace has become untied. Clara sits back against the fender of the nearest car and continues talking. 
CLARA ...It's really a fine opportunity for me. But I'm not sure I want to be a department head. It's mostly executive and administrative work. Well, anyway, I told you about my father, and he depends on me a great deal, and... 
MARTY (still concentrating on his shoelace) Why don't you just move out to Portchester? 
CLARA Well, that's what I was saying. My father is getting old. And we're very close. He's a wonderful man, really... 
She pauses as he straightens. He looks at her a moment. 
MARTY I think you're kidding yourself, Clara. I used to think about moving out, you know? And that's what I used to say. "My mother needs me." But when you really get down to it, that ain't it at all. Actually, you need your father. You know what I mean? You're living at home, and you got your father and mother there, and you can go on like that -- being a little girl all your life. 
CLARA I'm afraid of being lonely. 
MARTY Oh, you won't be so lonely. You'll make friends right away. 
CLARA Actually, I don't make friends easily. 
MARTY What're you talking about? You're a real likeable person. You'll make friends out there in Portchester one, two, three. You'll have people visiting you alla time. I'll come visit you. I'll borrow my brother Freddie's car, or you can call me up when you feel blue, or I'll call you up. And it's gonna be nice. Don't be so afraid. 
They have only gone a few paces farther when Marty's shoelace comes loose again. He fidgets self-consciously, bends down and begins to retie it. The VOICE of Ralph, the well-dressed man, established previously, is heard. 
RALPH'S VOICE (off-screen) Hey, Marty! 
RALPH (turning his head toward the rear of the car and raising his voice) Hey, Louise, I want you to meet Marty Pilletti. Marty, that's Louise Kelly, inna back seat there. 
MARTY Hiya. 
Louise, not an unattractive girl by any means, is a little surly at the moment. She merely nods at the introduction. 
LOUISE What are we going to do, just sit around here all night? 
RALPH (addressing Marty's bowed head in a quick mutter) Listen, Marty, these three squirrels are nurses. We're all going over Leo's house later because there's nobody there. These are the squirrels I told you about. Money inna bank, man. Wanna get inna car? She's a pretty nice-looking doll. 
MARTY I'm with a girl, Ralph. 
RALPH Get ridda her. This is money inna bank. 
MARTY I can't do that, Ralph, because somebody already brushed her off once tonight. 
RALPH This is a good deal here, Marty. 
Marty straightens, looks surreptitiously back to the corner where Clara is standing. 
Clara stands alone on the corner. She is an angular, awkward, plain girl. Marty brings his attention back around to Ralph who is leaning out of the car window. 
MARTY (bending down to Ralph) I can't do it, Ralph. Thanks anyway. (looks toward back seat) Very nice to have met you all. 
LOUISE Come on, let's get outta here. 
LEO Hey, Ralph, we might as well get going. 
Ralph bends forward and starts the car. 
MARTY I'll see you, Leo. 
LEO I'll see you, Marty. 
Marty takes a step or two back from the car, and Ralph begins the business of wheeling the car from out of its parking place. The car backs and fills once or twice and eventually clears and whisks into the street. 
Marty stands looking after the departing car, then slowly turns and goes back up the sidewalk. He joins Clara and we... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
PILLETTI HOME, KITCHEN. NIGHT 
Marty and Clara come into the dark house. Nobody is home. Marty and Clara's silhouettes block the doorway momentarily. 
MARTY Wait a minute. Lemme find the light. 
He finds the lights. The kitchen is suddenly brightly lit. The two of them stand squinting to adjust to the sudden glare. 
MARTY I guess my mother ain't home yet. I figure my cousin Thomas and Virginia musta gone to the movies, so they won't get back till one o'clock at least. 
Clara advances into the kitchen, a little ill at ease, and looks around. Marty closes the porch door. 
MARTY This is the kitchen. 
MARTY All I wanted was a lousy kiss! What do you think, I was gonna try something serious with my mother coming home any minute!? What am I, a leper or something?! 
He turns and goes into the living room to hide the flush of hot tears threatening to fill his eyes. Clara is also on the verge of tears. 
CLARA (more to herself than to him) I just didn't feel like it, that's all. 
Slowly, she moves to the archway leading to the living room. CAMERA ANGLES to include the living room where Marty sits on the couch with his hands in his lap, staring straight ahead. The room is dark except for the slanted light coming from the dining room. 
Clara goes to the couch and sits on the edge beside him. He doesn't look at her. 
LIVING ROOM. 
MARTY I'm old enough to know better. Comes New Year's Eve, everybody starts arranging parties, I'm the guy they gotta dig up a date for. Let me getta packa cigarettes, and I'll take you home. 
He starts to rise but instead sinks back onto the couch, looking straight ahead. Clara looks at him, her face peculiarly soft and compassionate. 
CLARA I'd like to see you again. Very much. The reason I didn't let you kiss me was because I just didn't know how to handle the situation. You're the kindest man I ever met. The reason I tell you this is because I want to see you again very much. I know that when you take me home, I'm going to just lie on my bed and think about you. I want very much to see you again. 
Marty stares down at his hands. 
MARTY (without looking over at her) Waddaya doing tomorrow night? 
CLARA Nothing. 
MARTY I'll call you up tomorrow morning. Maybe, we'll go see a movie. 
CLARA I'd like that very much. 
MARTY The reason I can't be definite about it now is my Aunt Catherine is probably coming over tomorrow, and I may have to help out. 
CLARA I'll wait for your call. 
MARTY We better get started to your house, because the buses only run about one an hour now. 
CLARA All right. 
She stands. 
MARTY I'll just get a packa cigarettes. 
He rises and goes into his bedroom. CAMERA ANGLES to include door to bedroom. Marty opens his bureau drawer and extracts a pack of cigarettes. He comes back out and looks at Clara for the first time. They start to walk to the dining room. In the archway, Marty pauses and turns to her. 
MARTY Waddaya doing New Year's Eve? 
CLARA Nothing. 
They quietly slip into each other's arms and kiss. Slowly their faces part, and Marty's head sinks down upon her shoulder. He is crying, detectable from the slight shake of his shoulders. The girl presses her cheek against the back of his head. They stand. The SOUND of the kitchen door opening splits them out of their embrace. A moment later Mrs. Pilletti's voice is heard. 
MRS. PILLETTI'S VOICE (off-screen) Hallo! Hallo! Marty?! 
She comes into the dining room, stops at the sight of Marty and Clara. 
MRS. PILLETTI Hello, Marty, when you come home? 
MRS. PILLETTI (standing) Sure. 
CLARA (standing) It was very nice meeting you, Mrs. Pilletti. I hope I'll see you again. 
MRS. PILLETTI Sure. 
Marty and Clara move toward the kitchen. 
MARTY All right, Ma. I'll be back in about an hour, an hour anna half. 
MRS. PILLETTI Sure. 
CLARA Goodnight, Mrs. Pilletti. 
MRS. PILLETTI Goodnight. 
Marty and Clara go out through the kitchen. CAMERA STAYS on Mrs. Pilletti, who stands expressionlessly by her chair, staring after them. She remains there rigid even after the kitchen door has OPENED and SHUT. 
FORDHAM ROAD. NIGHT 
The biggest intersection in the Bronx is near the Grand Concourse at Fordham Road, which is the biggest boulevard. Despite the hour, the sidewalks are crowded with PEOPLE. The TRAFFIC is heavy with buses. 
We PICK UP Angie walking up Fordham Road just about to the Grand Concourse. As he reaches the northeast corner of the intersection and stands, waiting for the light to change, he looks off-screen. Something captures his attention, and he calls out. 
ANGIE Hey!! 
STREET OUTSIDE A DEPARTMENT STORE. 
In front of Alexander's Department Store, the street is crowded, and a bus queue waits for the downtown Concourse bus. Marty and Clara are part of the queue. 
ANGIE (starting toward Marty and Clara, shouting) Hey! 
Angie starts into the street without waiting for the lights to change. Impatiently, he has to wait until traffic stops for the light. 
ANGIE (shouting as he goes) Hey, Marty! Hey! 
Marty and Clara still stand, seeming not to hear Angie. 
ANGIE'S VOICE (off-screen) Hey, Marty! Marty! 
Marty and Clara turn and stare off-screen. 
Angie pushes his way through the CROWD on the sidewalk and manages to join Marty and Clara. 
ANGIE Where you been, for Pete sakes?! I been looking all over for you. 
MARTY I looked for you, Angie, before I cut out, but I couldn't find you. 
ANGIE I been looking all over for you! 
Angie is absolutely unaware of, or simply refuses to acknowledge the presence of the girl. He has pushed himself in between Marty and Clara, and addresses himself entirely to Marty. 
MARTY What happened, Angie, was that we thought we were just gonna go for a short walk, and then we thought we were gonna come right back, but we got to talking. Listen, Angie, I want you to meet Clara... (he tries to turn the sullen Angie toward Clara) Clara, this is my best friend, Angie. I told you about him. 
Marty and Clara have waited stiffly through this interruption, and now they look at each other and smile. 
MARTY Okay, so I'll see you tomorrow night then. 
CLARA Okay. 
Marty turns and moves across the lobby toward the street door. 
OUTSIDE THE APARTMENT HOUSE. 
Marty stands a moment in the clear black night air, expressionless, but within him, a strange exhilaration is beginning to stir. He mosies away from the building along the sidewalk, CAMERA panning with him. 
He strikes out suddenly with a spirited stride, as if he knew where he was going. 
176TH STREET. 
CLOSER SHOT of Marty marching along 176th Street. He quickly reaches the Grand Concourse. Here he pauses a moment, a little at a loss for what direction to take -- then remembers he needs the uptown bus. 
He moves across the wide street to get to the other side of the boulevard. Again, he seems to lose track of which direction is homeward. 
He walks uptown a ways with a strange jerky stride, pausing every once in a while to see whether there's a bus coming. 
Suddenly Marty breaks into a dog-trot, then drops back into the stiff stride as he approaches... 
THE INTERSECTION OF THE GRAND CONCOURSE. 
The corner near the bus stop is deserted. Marty stops, leans against the pole of the bus stop sign. 
Abruptly, he turns and walks uptown a little further. 
SERIES OF INTERCUTS: Marty strides, walks, stops short, goes to the curb desultorily, a few paces into the street, moves back. The traffic moves by him. He stands in the wide street, then with a gesture of magnificent expansiveness, he raises his arm and calls out. 
MARTY Taxi! Taxi! Hey, taxi! Taxi! Taxi! 
CLOSE-UP of Marty standing in the street, crying... 
MARTY Taxi!... Taxi!... 
FADE OUT. 
PILLETTI HOME, MARTY'S BEDROOM. DAY 
Marty is in his trousers and T-shirt. He whistles as he assembles his toilet articles for a shave. He starts out toward the living room, still whistling. Bright sunlight pours through the curtains on his window. 
SECOND FLOOR. 
Marty's whistling accompanies him to the second floor where he turns into the bathroom. CAMERA ANGLES to include Mrs. Pilletti's bedroom, disclosing her wearing an old faded batiste kimona, puttering around her room and cleaning. As Marty's toneless tune reaches her, Mrs. Pilletti turns her head and stares off, listening. 
THOMAS AND VIRGINIA'S APARTMENT. DAY. 
Catherine, in the living room, is packing her meager but neatly folded belongings into an old European carpet bag. She has regained her stiff, mordant crustiness. The mild WAIL of a baby can be heard. 
BEDROOM. 
Mrs. Pilletti is dressed in hat and coat and all set to go to mass. She is bent over the dining room table piling the breakfast dishes and crumbing the table. She looks up as Thomas comes in carrying his mother's bag. Aunt Catherine is right behind him. Beyond the porch, we can see Virginia walking the baby around outside. 
THOMAS Hello, Aunt Theresa. 
MRS. PILLETTI Hello, Thomas, how do you feel? 
THOMAS (setting the bag down) Ah, my mother, she drives me crazy. I hadda beg her to let me drive her over here. The martyr. She always gotta be the big martyr. 
CATHERINE Hey, will you go to mass, please. This one, he woke up this morning with salt in his nose. Do this! Do that! Will you leave me in peace, ah? 
A burst of spirited song soars from upstairs. Mrs. Pilletti, Aunt Catherine and even Thomas pause to look up in the direction of the voice. 
HALLWAY/STAIRWAY. 
Marty descends the stairs whistling. He carries his jacket over his arm. He makes some final adjustments to his tie. 
DINING ROOM. 
Alert to Marty's mood, Mrs. Pilletti, Aunt Catherine and Thomas stand, waiting for him to join them downstairs. 
MARTY (ebulliently) Hello, Aunt Catherine! How are you? Hello, Thomas. You going to mass with us? 
CATHERINE I was at mass two hours ago. 
MARTY Well, make yourself at home. The refrigerator is loaded with food. Go upstairs, take any room you want. Thomas, you going to mass with us? 
THOMAS (nods) Yeah, yeah, sure. 
He abruptly goes out into the living room and onto the front porch. 
MRS. PILLETTI (to Catherine) You wanna cuppa coffee? 
Marty has followed Thomas out into the living room. 
MARTY Boy, beautiful day, hey, Thomas? 
THOMAS Sure, great if you ain't married. 
Thomas goes out the door onto the porch. Marty stands in the open doorway. He looks out into the warm sunshine in the front yard. 
MARTY Hi, Virginia. 
He goes out into the yard to Virginia. He is as gay as a bird. He takes the baby from Virginia's arms, holds it high up above him. 
MARTY (to baby) Hey, little boy, you sure getting fat. You weigh more than a side-a beef now. (beams at the baby) Hey, Thomas, so I was telling you yesterday you was over my house -- Mr. Gazzara, my boss, so he wantsa sell his shop, go out to California because his kids are all married, and he... 
Thomas hasn't been listening to Marty and crosses quickly to Virginia. 
THOMAS Wadda you so sore about? 
VIRGINIA Oh shaddup, will you do me a favor? 
Marty comes up to them, holding the baby. 
Marty stands, watching the young couple yakking at each other. The little baby starts to cry again. 
KITCHEN. 
The two old sisters sit at the kitchen table, two untouched cups of coffee in front of them. 
MRS. PILLETTI Hey, I come home from your house last night, Marty was here with a girl. 
CATHERINE Who? 
MRS. PILLETTI Marty. 
CATHERINE Your son Marty? 
MRS. PILLETTI Well, what Marty you think is gonna be here in this house with a girl? 
CATHERINE Were the lights on? 
MRS. PILLETTI Oh sure. (frowns at her sister) This girl is a college graduate. 
CATHERINE They're the worst. College girls are one step from the streets. They smoke like men inna saloon. My son Joseph, his wife, you know, she types onna typewriter. One step from the streets, I tell you. Mrs. Pilletti ponders this philosophy for a moment. 
MRS. PILLETTI That's the first time Marty ever brought a girl to this house. She seems like a nice girl. I think he has a feeling for this girl. You heard him sing. He been singing like that all morning. 
Catherine nods bleakly. 
CATHERINE Well, that's all. You will see. Today, tomorrow, inna week, he's gonna say to you, "Hey, Ma, it's no good being a single man. I'm tired-a running around." Then he's gonna say, "Hey, Ma, wadda we need this old house? Why don't we sell this old house, move into a nicer parta town? A nice little apartment?" 
MRS. PILLETTI I don't sell this house, I tell you that. This is my husband's house. I had six children in this house. 
CATHERINE You will see. A coupla months, you gonna be an old lady, sleeping onna couch in her daughter-in-law's house. 
MRS. PILLETTI Catherine, you are a blanket of gloom. Wherever you are, the rain follows. Someday, you gonna smile, and we gonna declare a holiday. 
Marty comes in from the living room, a little down after his session with Thomas and Virginia. 
MARTY Hello, Ma, waddaya say, it's getting a little late. 
MRS. PILLETTI Sure. 
Marty goes to the sink to get himself a glass of water. He examines a piece of plaster that has fallen from the ceiling. 
MARTY Boy, this place is really coming to pieces. (turning to his mother) You know, Ma, I think we oughta sell this place. The whole joint's going to pieces. The plumbing is rusty. Everything. I'm gonna have to replaster the whole ceiling now. You know what we oughta do? We oughta get one of those new apartments they're building down on Southern Boulevard. A nicer parta town, you know?...You all set, Ma? 
Mrs. Pilletti exchanges a brief frightened glance with her sister. 
MRS. PILLETTI I'm all set. 
She sends another frightened look at her sister and follows Marty out into the living room. 
MARTY'S PORCH. 
Marty, his mother, Thomas and Virginia with the baby file down the porch to the street on their way to church. Marty and his mother are both troubled. The anger has left both Thomas and Virginia, but they are both silent. At the far end of the alleyway, as they reach the street, Virginia puts her free arm through her husband's elbow. Thomas looks briefly at her and they exchange a look of commiseration. Everyone turns and disappears off into the street. 
MARTY Well, let's not get inna fight about it, Ma. 
The kneeling woman shushes them again. By now the nine o'clock worshipers have filed out, and Marty joins the flow of ten o'clock people moving in. His mother turns back to him again. 
MARTY (stopping her before she gets started) What are you getting so worked up about? I just met the girl last night. I'm probably not gonna see her again. 
They continue down the aisle of the church. 
BAR. DAY. 
An hour later, the after-mass CROWD is there. It's a little more crowded than weekdays. A WOMAN with a glass of beer in one hand, rocks a baby carriage with the other. 
Marty enters the bar, moves along, ad-libbing "Hello" to someone at the bar, gets the attention of Lou, the bartender. 
MARTY Hello, Lou, Angie come in yet? 
BARTENDER He was here last night till about two o'clock. I hear you really got stuck with a dog last night. 
MARTY (glancing quickly at him) Who told you that? 
BARTENDER Angie. He says she was a real scrawny- looking thing. 
MARTY She wasn't so bad. 
He turns away from the bar annoyed, notes Ralph, sitting alone in one of the booths, reading the Sunday comics. Marty ambles over to him. 
MARTY Hello, Ralph. How'd you make out with those nurses last night, Ralph? 
RALPH (looking up) Oh man, you shoulda come with us last night, Marty. That one for you was a real lunatic. How'd you make out? 
The abruptness of the question rather startles Marty. It is not an expression he would normally associate with an evening with Clara. 
MARTY Oh, I hadda nice time...I didn't try nothing. She's a nice girl. I just met her last night, you know. I just talked with her. I didn't even try nothing... 
He feels very ill at ease and a little guilty for defending himself. 
MARTY Listen, you see Angie, tell him I went home, I'll meet him after lunch. 
He moves back down the bar and goes out into the street. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
MARTY'S HOUSE, DINING ROOM. AFTERNOON 
Marty is seated at the dining room table. He has removed his jacket, tie and shirt, even his shoes, and is making himself comfortable over a late Sunday lunch. With him are Angie and Joe, the Critic. Lounging in a chair but not at the table is Leo. 
JOE ...so the whole book winds up, Mike Hammer, he's inna room there with this doll. So he says, "You rat, you are the murderer." So she begins to con him, you know? She tells him how she loves him. And then Bam! He shoots her in the stomach. So she's laying there, gasping for breath, and she says, "How could you do that?" And he says, "It was easy." 
LEO (without looking up from his magazine) Boy, that Mickey Spillane, boy he can write. 
Angie reaches over to Marty's plate and filches a piece of rissole, evidently annoying Marty. 
MARTY We gotta whole pot inna kitchen. We give you a plate-a your own. 
