THE MATRIX 
Written by 
Larry and Andy Wachowski 
April 8, 1996 
FADE IN ON: 
COMPUTER SCREEN 
So close it has no boundaries. 
A blinking cursor pulses in the electric darkness like a heart coursing with phosphorous light, burning beneath the derma of black-neon glass. 
A PHONE begins to RING, we hear it as though we were making the call.  The cursor continues to throb, relentlessly patient, until -- 
MAN (V.O.) Hello? 
Data now slashes across the screen, information flashing faster than we read. 
SCREEN Call trans opt:  received. 2-19-96  13:24:18  REC:Log> 
WOMAN (V.O.) I'm inside.  Anything to report? 
We listen to the phone conversation as though we were on a third line.  The man's name is CYPHER.  The woman, TRINITY. 
CYPHER (V.O.) Let's see.  Target left work at 5:01 PM. 
SCREEN Trace program:  running. 
The entire screen fills with racing columns of numbers. Shimmering like green-electric rivets, they rush at a 10- digit phone number in the top corner. 
CYPHER (V.O.) He caught the northbound Howard line. Got off at Sheridan. Stopped at 7-11.  Purchased six- pack of beer and a box of Captain Crunch.  Returned home. 
The area code is identified.  The first three numbers suddenly fixed, leaving only seven flowing columns. 
We begin MOVING TOWARD the screen, CLOSING IN as each digit is matched, one by one, snapping into place like the wheels of a slot machine. 
TRINITY (V.O.) All right, you're relieved.  Use the usual exit. 
CYPHER (V.O.) Do you know when we're going to make contact? 
TRINITY Soon. 
Only two thin digits left. 
CYPHER (V.O.) Just between you and me, you don't believe it, do you?  You don't believe this guy is the one? 
TRINITY (V.O.) I think Morpheus believes he is. 
CYPHER (V.O.) I know.  But what about you? 
TRINITY (V.O.) I think Morpheus knows things that I don't. 
CYPHER (V.O.) Yeah, but if he's wrong -- 
The final number pops into place -- 
TRINITY (V.O.) Did you hear that? 
CYPHER (V.O.) Hear what? 
SCREEN Trace complete.  Call origin: 
TRINITY (V.O.) Are you sure this line is clean? 
CYPHER (V.O.) Yeah, course I'm sure. 
We MOVE STILL CLOSER, the ELECTRIC HUM of the green numbers GROWING INTO an OMINOUS ROAR. 
TRINITY (V.O.) I better go. 
CYPHER (V.O.) Yeah.  Right.  See you on the other side. 
She hangs up as we PASS THROUGH the numbers, entering the netherworld of the computer screen. 
Where gradually the sound of a police radio grows around us. 
RADIO (V.O.) Attention all units.  Attention all units. 
Suddenly, a flashlight cuts open the darkness and we find ourselves in -- 
INT.  CHASE HOTEL - NIGHT 
The hotel was abandoned after a fire licked its way across the polyester carpeting, destroying several rooms as it spooled soot up the walls and ceiling leaving patterns of permanent shadow. 
We FOLLOW four armed POLICE officers using flashlights as they creep down the blackened hall and ready themselves on either side of room 303. 
The biggest of them violently kicks in the door -- 
The other cops pour in behind him, guns thrust before them. 
BIG COP Police!  Freeze! 
The room is almost devoid of furniture.  There is a fold- up table and chair with a phone, a modern, and a powerbook computer.  The only light in the room is the glow of the computer. 
Sitting there, her hands still on the keyboard, is TRINITY; a woman in black leather. 
BIG COP Get your hands behind your head! 
Trinity rises. 
The METAL SCREAM of an EL TRAIN is heard and Trinity turns to it, racing for the back of the building. 
The edge falls away into a wide back alley.  The next building is over 40 feet away, but Trinity's face is perfectly calm, staring at some point beyond the other roof. 
The cops slow, realizing they are about to see something ugly as Trinity drives at the edge, launching herself into the air. 
From above, the ground seems to flow beneath her as she hangs in flight 
Then hitting, somersaulting up, still running hard. 
COP Motherfucker -- that's impossible! 
They stare, slack-jawed, as Agent Brown duplicates the move exactly, landing, rolling over a shoulder, up onto one knee. 
Just below the building are the runbling tracks of riveted steel.  The TRAIN SCREECHES beneath her, a rattling blur of gray metal.  Trinity junps, landing easily. 
She looks back just as Agent Brown hurls through the air barely reaching the last car 
Agent Brown stands, yanking out a gun. 
Trinity is running hard as BULLETS WHISTLE past her head. 
Ahead she sees her only chance, 50 feet beyond the point where the train has begun to turn, there is -- 
A window; a yellow glow in the midst of a dark brick building. 
Trinity zeroes in on it, running as hard as she can, her speed compounded by the train.  The SCREAM of the STEEL rises as she nears the edge where the train rocks into the turn. 
Trinity hurtles into the empty night space, her body leveling into a dive.  She falls, arms covering her head as -- 
The whole world seems to spin on its axis -- 
And she crashes with an EXPLOSION of GLASS and WOOD, then falls onto a back stairwell, tumbling, bouncing down stairs bleeding, broken -- 
But still alive. 
Through the smashed window, she glimpses Agent Brown, still on the train, his tie and coat whipping in the wind; stone-faced, he touches his ear piece as the train slides him past the window. 
Trinity tries to move.  Everything hurts. 
TRINITY Get up, Trinity.  You're fine. Get up -- just get up! 
She stands and limps down the rest of the stairs. 
EXT.  STREET 
Trinity emerges from the shadows of an alley and, at the end of the block, in a pool of white street light, she sees it. 
The telephone booth. 
Obviously hurt, she starts down the concrete walk, focusing in completely, her pace quickening, as the PHONE begins to RING. 
Across the street, a garbage truck suddenly u-turns, its TIRES SCREAMING as it accelerates. 
Trinity sees the headlights on the truck arcing at the telephone booth as if taking aim. 
Gritting through the pain, she races the truck -- 
Slamming into the booth, the headlights blindingly bright, bearing down on the box of Plexiglas just as -- 
She answers the phone. 
There is a frozen instant of silence before the hulking mass of dark metal lurches up onto the sidewalk -- 
Barreling through the booth, bulldozing it into a brick wall, smashing it to Plexiglas pulp. 
After a moment, a black loafer steps down from the cab of the garbage truck.  Agent Smith inspects the wreckage. There is no body.  Trinity is gone. 
His jaw sets as he grinds his molars in frustration. AGENT JONES walks up behind him. 
AGENT SMITH Did you get anything from the room? 
AGENT JONES Their next target.  The name is Neo. 
The handset of the pay phone lays on the ground, separated in the crash like a severed limb. 
AGENT SMITH We'll need a search running. 
AGENT JONES It's already begun. 
We are SUCKED TOWARDS the mouthpiece of the phone, CLOSER and CLOSER, UNTIL the smooth gray plastic spreads out like a horizon and the small HOLES WIDEN until we fall through one -- 
Swallowed by the darkness that becomes -- 
A computer screen. 
We are on-line, inside a chat room called "The Matrix." It is an exklusive web-site where hackers hang out. 
SCREEN JACKON:  I heard Morpheus has been on this board. SUPERASTIC:  Morpheus doesn't even exist and the Matrix is nothing but an advertising gimmick 4 a new game. TIMAXE:  All I want to know is Trinity really a girl? LODIII:  87% of all women on line are really men. QUARK:  The Matrix is a euphemism for the government. SUPERASTIC:  No, The Matrix is the system controlling our lives. TIMAXE:  You mean MTV. SUPERASTIC:  I mean Sega. FOS4:  ALL HAIL SEGA!!! 
We drift back from the electric conversation entering -- 
INT.  NEO'S APARTMENT 
It is a studio apartirent that seems overgrown with technology. 
Weed-like cables coil everywhere, duct-taped into thickets that wind up and around the legs of several desks. 
Tabletops are filled with cannibalized equipment that lay open like an autopsied corpse. 
We turn towards the center of this rat-nest of technology, following the slurping and crunching of cereal.  We pass an open box of Capln Crunch as we find -- 
NEO, a younger man who knows more about living inside a computer than living outside one. 
MORPHEUS (V.O.) Outside, there's a scaffold.  You can use it to get to the roof. 
Leaning out the window, he sees that the scaffold is several offices away. 
NEO No! It's too far away. 
MORPHEUS (V.O.) There's a small ledge.  It's a short climb.  You can make it. 
Neo looks down; the building's glass wall vertigos into a concrete chasm. 
NEO No way, no way, this is crazy. 
MORPHEUS (V.O.) Don't be controlled by your fear, Neo.  There are only two ways out of this building.  One is that scaffold.  The other is in their custody.  You take a chance either way.  I leave it to you. 
CLICK.  He hangs up.  Neo looks at the door, then back at the scaffold. 
NEO This is insane!  Why is this happening to me?  What did I do? I'm nobody.  I didn't do anything. Fuck! Fuck!  Fuck! 
He climbs up onto the window ledge.  Hanging onto the frame, he steps onto the small ledge. 
The scaffold seems even farther away. 
NEO I'm going to die. 
The WIND suddenly BLASTS up the face of the building, knocking Neo off balance.  Recoiling, he clings harder to the frame, and the phone falls out of his hand. 
He watches as it is swallowed by the distance beneath him. 
NEO This is insane.  I can't do this! Forget it! 
He climbs back into the office just as a cop opens the door. 
NEO I didn't do anything! 
EXT.  SKYSCRAPER 
The agents lead a handcuffed Neo out of the revolving doors, forcing his head down as they push him into the dark sedan. 
Trinity watches in the rear view mirror of her motorcycle. 
TRINITY Shit. 
INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - CLOSE ON CAMERA MONITOR 
A wide angle view of a white roon, where Neo is sitting at a table alone. 
We MOVE INTO the monitor, ENTERING the room as if the monitor were a window. 
At the same moment, the door opens and the agents enter. 
Smith sits down across from Neo.  A thick manila envelope slaps down on the table between them. 
Neo glances at the name on the file: "Anderson, Thomas A." 
AGENT SMITH As you can see, we've had our eye on you for some time now, Mr. Anderson. 
He opens the file.  Paper rattle marks the silence as he flips several pages.  Neo cannot tell if he is looking at the file or at him. 
AGENT SMITH It seems that you have been living two lives.  In one life, you are Thomas A. Anderson, program writer for a respectable software company.  You have a social security number, you pay your taxes and you help your land lady carry out her garbage. 
The pages continue to turn. 
AGENT SMITH The other life is lived in computers where you go by the hacker alias Neo, and are guilty of virtually every computer crime we have a law for, including the unauthorized use of the D.M.V. system for the removal of automobile boots. 
Neo feels himself sinking into a pit of shit. 
AGENT SMITH One of these,lives has a future. One of them does not. 
He closes the file. 
AGENT SMITH I'm going to be as forthcoming as I can be, Mr. Anderson.  You are here because we need your help. 
He removes his sunglasses; his eyes are an unnatural ice- blue. 
AGENT SMITH We know that you have been contacted by a certain individual. A man who calls himself Morpheus. Whatever you think you know about this man is irrelevant to the fact that he is wanted for acts of terrorism in more countries than any other man in the world.  He is considered by many authorities to be the most dangerous man alive. 
He leans closer. 
AGENT SMITH My colleagues believe that I am wasting my time with you, but I believe you want to do the right thing.  It is obvious that you are an intelligent man, Mr. Anderson, and that you are interested in the future.  That is why I believe you are ready to put your past mistakes behind you and get on with your life. 
Neo tries to match his stare. 
AGENT SMITH We are willing to wipe the slate clean, to give you a fresh start and all we are asking in return is your cooperation in bringing a known terrorist to justice. 
Neo nods to himself. 
NEO Yeah.  Wow.  That sounds like a real good deal.  But I think I have a better one.  How about I give you the finger -- 
He does. 
NEO And you can cram that file up your Secret Service sphincter. 
Agent Smith puts his glasses back on. 
AGENT SMITH You disappoint me, Mr. Anderson. 
NEO You ain't seen nothing yet. 
AGENT SMITH The irony of your situation is that you have no choice. 
NEO You can't scare me with this gestapo crap.  I know my rights. I want my phone call. 
Agent Smith smiles. 
A featureless black van glides up to a staircase that curls down from the city's surface. 
trinity guides the blind Neo down the steps.  The back of the van slaps open, revealing a young, skinny man who looks to be still in his teens, wearing an outfit that is a cross between a surgeon and a telephone repair man. 
His name is GIZMO and he smiles lewdly at Trinity, exposing his teeth that are wired with weird-looking braces. 
GIZMO Va va va voom.  Still the hottest software around. 
TRINITY Hello, Gizmo. 
Neo hears the voices around him. 
GIZMO This is really the guy?  The guy that Morpheus thinks -- 
TRINITY Yeah. 
GIZMO But he's so old. 
TRINITY Are you going to help us or aren't you? 
GIZMO Hacksaw.  Load up the copper-top and let's get the hell outta here. 
Hacksaw is a huge man in a leather welder's apron.  He shoulders Neo and hauls him into the van. 
A moment later the green lights of Lower Wacker curve over the tinted windshield as the van rushes through the underworld. 
INT.  VAN 
The chop-shop is filled with electronic gadgets, wired to meters and monitors.  There are shelves lined with medical supplies and rows of hanging tools, knives, cleavers, and stainless steel clamps. 
Neo is strapped down to an ambulance cart, listening nervously as Gizmo gets to work. 
GIZMO Okay, first we take a little look under the hood. 
He pulls up the goggles hanging at his neck and they blink to life with tiny halogen lights and lenses irising to varying levels of magnification. 
GIZMO You're going to feel a little prick. 
He inserts acupuncture-like needles into Neo's lower abdomen.  The needles are wired to video monitors. Hacksaw pilots the fiber-optic lens. 
NEO What are you doing? 
TRINITY We think you're bugged.  We can't take you to Morpheus until you're clean. 
GIZMO There it is. 
On a monitor, we see the bug nestled in among Neols large intestines. 
GIZMO Hit him with 10 ccs of local. 
Hacksaw loads a hypodermic needle and pumps an anesthetic around Neols navel. 
Using a device that looks like a miniature speculum, Gizmo inserts a knuckled dental pick.  Typing into a calculator keypad wired to the pick, he automates the tip. 
On the monitor, we watch it telescope out and the end separate into a tiny hooked, metal claw. 
GIZMO Here, kitty, kitty, kitty. 
The claw snags hold of the bug. 
GIZMO Gotcha! 
But the bug reacts violently.  Neo screams as it wraps itself around the soft tissue web of intestine. 
GIZMO Shit. 
TRINITY What's happening? 
GIZMO I don't know.  They've never done that before. 
Neo writhes in pain. 
GIZMO Hold him down. 
NEO Jesus!  God! 
TRINITY Do something! 
GIZMO I got it!  Maybe we can stun it. 
TRINITY Are you crazy?  That will kill him. 
We watch Neo, who can't see what they are talking about. 
GIZMO It'll work.  Come on, do it or Hacksaw will. 
NEO Do what? 
The instant he hears the word, he knows. 
TRINITY Clear. 
NEO Oh, shit -- 
The cry is frozen in his mouth as the paddles hit his chest.  Gizmo wrestles with the bug. 
GIZMO Hit him again! 
Again, the electricity convulses through him as Gizmo yanks the speculum out. 
GIZMO Got it! 
Trinity touches Neo, who is just beginning to breathe. She eases the tape off his eyes. 
MORPHEUS We are trained in this world to accept only what is rational and logical.  Have you ever wondered why? 
Neo shakes his head. 
MORPHEUS As children, we do not separate the possible from the impossible which is why the younger a mind is the easier it is to free while a mind like yours can be very difficult. 
NEO Free from what? 
MORPHEUS From the Matrix. 
Neo locks at his eyes but only sees a reflection of himself. 
MORPHEUS Do you want to know what it is, Neo? 
Neo swallows and nods his head. 
MORPHEUS It's that feeling you have had all your life.  That feeling that something was wrong with the world.  You don't know what it is but it's there, like a splinter in your mind, driving you mad, driving you to me.  But what is it? 
The LEATHER CREAKS as he leans back. 
MORPHEUS The Matrix is everywhere, it's all around us, here even in this room. You can see it out your window, or on your television.  You feel it when you go to work, or go to church or pay your taxes.  It is the world that has been pulled over your eyes to blind you from the truth. 
NEO What truth? 
MORPHEUS That you are a slave, Neo.  That you, like everyone else, was born into bondage... ... kept inside a prison that you cannot smell, taste, or touch.  A prison for your mind. 
Outside, the WIND BATTERS a loose PANE of glass. 
MORPHEUS Unfortunately, no one can be told what the Matrix is.  You have to see it for yourself. 
NEO How? 
MORPHEUS Hold out your hands. 
In Neo's right hand, Morpheus drops a red pill. 
MORPHEUS This is your last chance.  After this, there is no going back. 
In his left, a blue pill. 
MORPHEUS You take the blue pill and the story ends.  You wake in your bed and you believe whatever you want to believe. 
The pills in his open hands are reflected in the glasses. 
MORPHEUS You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland and I show you how deep the rabbit-hole goes. 
Neo feels the smooth skin of the capsules, with the moisture growing in his palms. 
MORPHEUS Remember that all I am offering is the truth.  Nothing more. 
Neo opens his mouth and swallows the red pill.  The Cheshire smile returns. 
MORPHEUS Follow me. 
He leads Neo into the other room, which is cramped with high-tech equipment, glowing ash-bliie and electric green from the racks of monitors. 
Trinity, Apoc and Cypher look up as they enter. 
CYPHER Shit. 
TRINITY I knew he would. 
Cypher saddles up to Morpheus, talking in a hushed tone away from, Neo. 
CYPHER Morpheus, I know what you believe but I think this is a mistake. We're rushing him.  He's old.  I'm afraid he might pop. 
MORPHEUS Haven't I always told you, Cypher, not to let fear control your life. Apoc, are we on-line? 
Neo recognizes the large man from the El train. 
APOC Almost. 
He and Trinity are working quickly, hardwiring a complex system of monitors, modules and drives. 
NEO Apoc?  You wrote the Four Horsemen Virus. 
APOC That's right. 
MORPHEUS Neo, time is always against us. Will you take a seat there? 
In the center of the room sits a chair.  Near the chair is an old oval dressing mirror that is cracked. 
MORPHEUS I imagine you know sonething about virtual reality. 
Neo sits and Trinity begins gently fixing white electrode disks to his head, arns, and the back of his neck. 
NEO A little. 
MORPHEUS Tell me about it. 
NEO Essentially, it's a hardware system that uses an apparatus; headgear, gloves and whatever to make you feel that you are in a computer program. 
MORPHEUS If the virtual reality apparatus, as you called it, was wired to all of your senses and controlled them completely, would you be able to tell the difference between the virtual world and the real world? 
NEO You might not, no. 
MORPHEUS No, you wouldn't. 
Neo whispers to Trinity. 
NEO You did all this? 
She nods, placing a set of headphones over his ears. They are wired to an old hotel phone. 
Fanning out in a circle, there are more.  All connected to a center core, each capsule like a red, dimly glowing petal attached to a black metal stem. 
Above him, level after, level, the stem rises seemingly forever.  He moves to the foot of the capsule and looks out. 
The image assaults his mind. 
Towers of glowing petals spiral up to incomprehensible heights, disappearing down into a dim murk like an underwater abyss. 
His sight is blurred and warped, exaggerating the intensity of the vision.  The sound of the PLANT is like the sound of the ocean heard from inside the belly of Leviathan. 
Below Neo, a petal detaches from the stem, bearing away the body of an old man like an automated barge even as a new pod rises up and plugs itself into the empty space. 
Inside the new capsule, its surface more translucent and pinkish in color, Neo sees a small baby. 
From above, a machine drops directly in front of Neo. 
He swallows his scream as it seems to stare at him. 
It is almost insect-like in its design; beautiful housings of alloyed metal covering organic-like systems of hard and soft polymers. 
A black particle beam washes over Neo, he reacts in pain as the scanner seems to expose the nervous system wired to the coaxial cable at his cerebral cortex. 
At the back of the neck, the cable lock spins and opens, disengaging. 
The cable pulls itself free, a long clear plastic needle and cerebrum-chip slides from the anterior of Neols skull with an ooze of blood and spinal fluid.  The other connective hoses snap free and snake away as -- 
The back of the unit opens and a tremendous vacuum, like an airplane door opening, sucks the gelatin and then Neo into a black hole. 
INT.  WASTE LINE 
The pipe is a waste disposal system and Neo falls, sliding with the clot of gelatin. 
Banking through pipe spirals and elbows, flushing up through grease traps clogged with cily clunps of cellulite. 
Neo begins to drown when he is suddenly snatched from the flow of waste. 
The metallic cable then lifts, pulling him up into the belly of the futuristic flying nachine, hovering inside the sewer main line. 
INT.  HOVERCRAFT 
The metal harness opens and drops the half-conscious Neo onto the floor. 
Human hands and arms help him up as he finds himself looking straight at Morpheus. 
Trinity and Apoc.  And others, dressed in bizarre, high- tech combat gear. 
Morpheus smiles. 
MORPHEUS Welcome to the real world, Neo. 
Neo passes out. 
FADE TO BLACK. 
We have no sense of time.  We hear VOICES whispering. 
MAN (O.S.) Do you think Morpheus is right? Do you think he could be the One? 
WOMAN (O.S.) It doesn't matter now.  But if he's wrong... 
FADE IN: 
NEO'S POV 
Neo's eyes flutter open.  We see Trinity's face above us, angelic in the fluorescent glow of a light stick. 
ANGLE ON NEO 
NEO ... am I dead? 
TRINITY Far from it. 
FADE TO BLACK. 
FADE IN: 
ANGLE ON NEO 
He opens his eyes again, something tingling through him. He focuses and sees his body pierced with dozens of acupuncture-like needles wired to a strange device. 
DOZER He needs a lot of work. 
MORPHEUS I know. 
Dozer and Morpheus are operating on Neo. 
NEO What are you doing? 
MORPHEUS Your muscles have atrophied. We're rebuilding them. 
Fluorescent light sticks burn unnaturally bright. 
NEO Why do my eyes hurt? 
MORPHEUS You've never used them before. 
Morpheus takes his sunglasses off and puts them on Neo. Neo lays back. 
MORPHEUS Rest, Neo.  The answers are coming. 
INT.  NEO'S ROOM 
Neo wakes up from a deep sleep, feeling better.  He is wearing a black tank top and shorts. 
MORPHEUS This is the Chicago you know. Chicago as it was at the end of the twentieth century.  This Chicago exists only as part of a neural-interactive simulation that we call the Matrix. 
We GLIDE AT the television as he changes the channel. 
MORPHEUS You have been living inside Baulliaurd's vision, inside the map, not the territory.  This is Chicago as it exists today. 
The sky is an endless sea of black and green bile.  The earth, scorched and split like burnt flesh, spreads out beneath us as we ENTER the television. 
MORPHEUS 'The desert of the real.' 
In the distance, we see the ruins of a future Chicago protruding from the wasteland like the blackened ribs of a long-dead corpse. 
MORPHEUS We are, right now, miles below the earth's surface.  The only place humans can survive outside the Matrix is underground. 
Still MOVING, we TURN and find Neo and Morpheus; the chairs now sitting in the middle of the black desert. Dizzy, Neo holds onto the chair. 
NEO What happened? 
MORPHEUS It started early in the twenty- first century, with the birth of artificial intelligence, a singular consciousness that spawned an entire race of machines. 
In his sunglasses, we see storm clouds gather. 
MORPHEUS At first all they wanted was to be treated as equals, entitled to the same human inalienable rights. Whatever they were given, it was not enough. 
In the circular window of the glasses, EXPLOSIONS light up a bloody battle field. 
MORPHEUS We don't know who struck first. Us or them.  But sometime at the end of the twenty-first century the battle was joined. 
We MOVE INTO his glasses and the war surrounds us. 
MORPHEUS The war raged for generations and turned the face of our planet from green and blue to black and red. 
At last we see the Sentinels; killing machines that are at once terrifying and beautiful.  They have an organic architecture like a microbiotic organism, that is perpetually in motion. 
The Sentinel cracks the body armor of a soldier, splitting open the soft, stearing meat inside. 
MORPHEUS It scorched and burned the sky. Without the sun, the machines sought out a new energy source to survive. 
The Sentinel locks up, as heat lightning of black ink bursts against the sky, spreading into a permanent cloud of stain. 
MORPHEUS They discovered a new form of fusion.  All that was required to initiate the reaction was a small electric charge.  Throughout human history we have been dependent on machines to survive.  Fate, it seems, is not without a sense of irony. 
We return to the power plant that Neo escaped from where we see human beings looking almost blissful in their gelatin cocoons. 
MORPHEUS The human body generates more bio- electricity than a 120-volt battery and over 25,000 B.T.U.'s of body heat. 
Outside, spreading all around the power plant, beneath a breathing greenhouse, are the growing fields. 
MORPHEUS We are, as an energy source, easily renewable and completely recyclable, the dead liquified and fed intravenously to the living. 
Huge farm-like reapers are harvesting the crop. 
MORPHEUS All they needed to control this new battery was something to occupy our mind. 
We see inside a clear tubular husk.  Floating in viscous fluid, there is a human fetus; its soft skull already growing around the brain-jack. 
MORPHEUS And so they built a prison out of our past, wired it to our brains and turned us into slaves. 
We PULL BACK to find the image is now on the television and we are again inside the white space of the Construct. 
NEO No!  I don't believe it!  It's not possible! 
MORPHEUS I didn't say that it would be easy, Neo.  I just said that it would be the truth. 
The room without walls begins to spin. 
NEO Stop!  Let me out!  I want out! 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
His eyes snap open and he thrashes against the chair, trying to rip the cable from the back of his neck. 
NEO Get this thing out of me! 
TRINITY Easy, Neo.  Easy. 
Dozer holds him while Trinity unlocks it.  Once it's out, he tears away from them, falling as he trips free of the harness. 
NEO Don't touch me!  Get away from me! 
On his hands and knees, he reels as the world spins. Sweat pours off him as a pressure builds inside his skull as if his brian had been put into a centrifuge. 
CYPHER He's going to pop! 
Vomiting violently, Neo pitches forward and blacks out. 
INT.  NEO'S ROOM 
He blinks, regaining consciousness.  The room is dark. Neo is stretched out on his bed. 
NEO I can't go back, can I? 
Morpheus sitting like a shadow on a chair in the far corner. 
MORPHEUS No.  But if you could, would you really want to? 
Neo isn't sure of that answer. 
MORPHEUS I feel that I owe you an apology. There is a rule that we do not free a mind once it reaches a certain age.  It is dangerous. They have trouble letting go.. Their mind turns against them. I've seen it happen.  I broke the rule because I had to. 
He stares into the darkness, confessing as much to himself as Neo. 
MORPHEUS When the Matrix was first built there was a man born inside that had the ability to change what he wanted, to remake the Matrix as he saw fit.  It was this man that freed the first of us and taught us the secret of the war; control the Matrix and you control the future. 
INT.  DOJO 
They are standing in a very sparse japanese-style dojo. 
MORPHEUS This is a sparring program, similar to the programmed reality of the Matrix.  Consider this your first lesson. 
He assumes a fighting stance. 
MORPHEUS Attack me. 
Neo assumes a similar stance, cautiously circling until he gives a short cry and launches a furious attack. 
It is like a Jackie Chan movie at high speed, fists and feet striking from every angle as Neo presses his attack 
But each and every blow is blocked by effortless speed. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
While their minds battle in the programmed reality, the two bodies appear quite serene, suspended in the drive chairs. 
Tank monitors their life systems noticing that Neo is wildly and chaotically lit up as opposed to the slow and steady rhythm of Morpheus. 
INT.  MESS HALL 
Dinner is up.  Everyone is eating bowls of single-cell protein.  It has a cottage cheese consistency. 
MOUSE bursts in the room. 
MOUSE Morpheus is fighting Neo! 
All at once they bolt for the door. 
INT.  DOJO 
Neo's face is knotted, teeth clenched, as he hurls himself at Morpheus. 
MORPHEUS Good.  Adaption.  Improvisation. But your weakness isn't your technique. 
Morpheus attacks him and it is like nothing we have seen. His feet and fists are everywhere taking Neo apart.  For every blow Neo blocks, five more hit their marks until -- 
Neo falls. 
Panting, on his hands and knees, blood spits fror, his mouth speckling the white floor of the Dojo. 
MORPHEUS How did I beat you? 
NEO You -- You're too fast. 
MORPHEUS Do you think my being faster, stronger has anything to do with my muscles in this place? 
Neo is frustrated, still unable to catch his breath. 
MORPHEUS Do you believe that's air you are breathing now? 
Neo squints at him. 
MORPHEUS If you can free your mind, the body will follow. 
Neo stands, nodding. 
MORPHEUS Again. 
Their fists fly with  pneumatic speed. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
Everyone is gathered behind Tank, watching the fight, like watching a game of Mortal Combat. 
CABLE Jeezus Keerist!  That boy is fast! 
MOUSE You ever seen anyone that fast that soon, Tank? 
TANK Never. 
APOC Morpheus is right.  He's got to be the one. 
INT.  DOJO 
The speed of the blows rises like a drum solo that seems impossible to sustain.  Neo's face sheds its mask of calm with a scream. 
He wants to beat Morpheus bad. 
Finally a single blow catches Morpheus on the side of the head, knocking his glasses off. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
There are several gasps. 
MOUSE I don't believe it! 
INT.  DOJO 
Morpheus rubs his face. 
MORPHEUS You are angry with me. 
Neo pants. 
NEO I, uh... maybe. 
MORPHEUS It's all right.  It's natural. 
NEO I feel better. 
Neo squints into the sun that seems unnaturally bright. He is the only one without sunglasses. 
MORPHEUS Do you now understand what it means when we say, if you're not one of us, you're one of them? 
NEO The agents.  They're sentient programs.  They can commandeer any software hardwired to the mainframe. 
MORPHEUS Anyone that is still in a power plant.  That is why we try to be invisible in the Matrix. 
NEO The best hacking is always traceless. 
Cypher and Trinity move away from them, securing the perimeter.  As Cypher passes a garbage can, he surreptitiously drops something inside. 
It is a cellular phone and we watch the blue display as the LINE CONNECTS. 
An early 1970s, black Lincoln Continental emerges from a corrugated roll-up garage.  Morpheus and Neo get in. 
INT.  LINCOLN CONTINENTAL (MATRIX) - DAY 
An enormous man is waiting for them.  A wad of chewing tobacco bulges his cheek.  He spits into a Coke can. 
MOJO Morpheus, been a long time coming. 
MORPHEUS You're looking well, Mojo. 
Mojo coughs a brown, cankerous laugh, juice speckling his chin and shirt.  He stares at Neo. 
MOJO You bringing us geriatrics now. Morpheus? 
He spits and laughs again. 
MOJO Guess you are locking for a miracle. 
EXT.  BAR (MATRIX) - DAY 
The Continental pulls up to a bar in the kind of neighborhood where every corner has a pair of eyes. 
INT.  BAR (MATRIX) - DAY 
A lightless, lower-class bar.  No one enters that is not expected. 
The front doors open in a brilliant burst of sunlight as Mojo leads Morpheus and Neo inside.  Neo looks around, his eyes adjusting to the darkness. 
Mojo talks to the bartender, then looks over. 
MOJO All right, it's cool.  Go on back. 
They weave their way to the back of the bar, the STICKY FLOOR SNAPPING under their FEET. 
A monolith of a man rises from his stool as they walk up. 
REX You're late. 
He moves to the side, opening the heavy iron door behind him.  They descend the basement staircase toward the single bare bulb at the bottom, hanging above the only door. 
INT.  BASEMENT (MATRIX) - DAY 
A high-tech laptop and modem are set up on a stack of milk crates.  Neo waits as Morpheus types in a series of access codes.  After a moment the screen blinks, "Welcome Morpheus." 
Morpheus walks back to the same door they entered, but it now leads into -- 
INT.  TEMPLE OF ZION (MATRIX) - DAY 
The walls and floors are polished marble.  Neo follows, his mouth agape. 
NEO What -- what happened? 
MORPHEUS This is the temple.  It is a part of Zion's mainframe.  It's hidden inside the Matrix so that we can access it. 
Two PRIESTESSES are waiting in the antechamber. 
PRIESTESS Hello, Morpheus.  We've been expecting you. 
MORPHEUS Okay, you're on your own.  Go with them. 
They take Neo by the arm, leading him down a hall into another room. 
PRIESTESS Wait here.  Among the other Potentials. 
INT.  ROOM OF POTENTIALS (MATRIX) - DAY 
Neo enters and finally understands the attention given to his age.  The Potentials are all little children. 
The room feels at once like a Buddhist temple and a kindergarten class.  The children's heads are either shaved or thick with dreadlocks.  Some are playing, others meditating or practicing their gift. 
Neo watches a little girl levitate wooden alphabet blocks.  A skinny BOY holds a SPOON which sways like a blade of grass as he bends it with his rnind. 
Neo crosses to him, sits. 
The Boy smiles as Neo picks up a spoon and tries to imitate him.  Despite his best efforts, Neo cannot make it bend. 
SPOON BOY Your spoon does not bend because it is just that, a spoon.  Mine bends because there is no spoon, just my mind. 
Neo watches as it curls into a knot. 
SPOON BOY Link yourself to the spoon. Become the spoon and bend yourself. 
Neo nods, again holding up his spoon. 
NEO There is no spoon.  Right. 
He concentrates.  The spoon begins to bend just as the Priestess touches his shoulder. 
PRIESTESS The Oracle will see you now. 
He eyes her, then takes a cookie. 
ORACLE Make a believer out of you yet. 
INT.  ANTECHAMBER (MATRIX) - DAY 
Morpheus rises from a bench as the Priestess escorts Neo out.  When they are alone, Morpheus puts his hand on Neo's shoulder. 
MORPHEUS You don't have to tell me anything, Neo, because I already know what she said. 
NEO You do? 
MORPHEUS I brought you so that you could hear it for yourself.  I knew it would help. 
Neo finishes his cookie. 
MORPHEUS No one will ever ask you because it is a gift from her.  It is for you and you alone. 
EXT.  CITY STREET (MATRIX) - DAY 
Storm clouds shroud the streets as the sky turns jaundice. 
Cypher nervously glances down the surrounding streets. He notices several unmarked white vans. 
He mops the sweat from his forehead, when Trinity sees the black Lincoln. 
TRINITY Here they come. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
In the hovercraft, we see the sweat rolling down Cypher's face and neck. 
Tank is typing rapidly at the keyboard. 
TANK Weird.  This area never has this much activity. 
EXT.  HOTEL LAFAYETTE (MATRIX) - DAY 
Apoc opens the side door and they enter the hotel. 
INT.  ROOM 1313 (MATRIX) - DAY 
Mouse's CELLULAR RINGS. 
MOUSE Welcome to Movie-Phone. 
TANK (V.O.) They're on their way. 
MOUSE Right. 
The phone flips shut as he jumps up. 
MOUSE Let's get to work. 
INT.  HOTEL LAFAYETTE (MATRIX) - DAY 
Light filters down the throat of the building through a caged skylight at the top of the open elevator shaft. Four figures glide up the dark stairs that wind around the antique elevator. 
Neo notices a black cat, a yellow-green-eyed shadow that slinks past them and pads quickly down the stairs. 
A moment later, Neo sees another black cat that looks and moves identically to the first one. 
NEO Whoa.  Deja vu. 
Those words stop the others dead in their tracks. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
The monitors suddenly glitch as though the Matrix had an electronic seizure. 
TANK Oh, shit!  Oh, shit! 
INT.  HOTEL LAFAYETTE (MATRIX) - DAY 
Trinity turns around, her face tight. 
TRINITY What did you just say? 
NEO Nothing.  Just had a little deja vu. 
TRINITY What happened?  What did you see? 
NEO A black cat went past us and then I saw another that looked just like it. 
TRINITY How much like it?  Was it the same cat? 
NEO It might have been.  I'm not sure. 
Trinity looks at Morpheus, who listens quietly to the rasping breath of the old building. 
NEO What is it? 
TRINITY A deja vu is usually a glitch in the Matrix.  It happens when they change something. 
She also listens as the staccato BEAT of HELICOPTER BLADES GROW ominously LOUDER. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
Tank sees what was changed. 
TANK It's a trap! 
INT.  STAIRCASE (MATRIX) - DAY 
TANK Got it. 
MORPHEUS (V.O.) I need the main wet-wall. 
INT.  HALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Agent Smith pauses, his hand going to his earpiece. 
INT.  ROOM 808 (MATRIX) - DAY 
Morpheus is guided by Tank. 
TANK (V.O.) Now left and that's it in front of you. 
MORPHEUS Good. 
He cuts off the phone. 
INT.  HALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Agent Smith hears the LINE CLICK dead. 
AGENT SMITH Eighth floor.  They're on the eighth floor. 
INT.  HALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Agent Brown hears Smith on his earphone. 
AGENT BROWTJ Eighth floor!  Move! 
INT.  STAIRWELL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Cops flood the eighth floor, rushing everywhere. 
INT.  ROOM 808 (MATRIX) - DAY 
Several cops sweep through the room.  It is empty.  As they pass the bathroom, we see a man-sized hole smashed through the plaster and lathe. 
INT.  WALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
They are inside the main plumbing wall, slowly worming their way down the greasy, black stack pipes. 
Above them, light fills the hole they made to get inside. 
INT.  HALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Brown turns to Smith. 
AGENT BROWN Where are they? 
INT.  ROOM 608 (MATRIX) - DAY 
The cops search in silence, straining for a clue, when one hears SOMETHING STRANGE near the bathroom. 
INT.  WALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Cypher has slipped and is wedged between the wall and several thick supply pipes. 
INT.  ROOM 608 (MATRIX) - DAY 
The Cop leans in, his ear almost against the thin membrane of plaster separating them.  He can hear WHISPERS, HISSES and a GRUNT when -- 
The WALL suddenly bulges, SHATTER-CRACKING as the Cop realizes -- 
COP They're in the walls! 
INT.  WALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Neo pulls Cypher free just as the Cop OPENS FIRE -- 
BULLETS PUNCHING shafts of light like swords into the box of soot-black space. 
INT.  ROOM 608 (MATRIX) - DAY 
The Cop keeps FIRING, his flashlight strapped to his gun barrel, lighting up the wall until -- 
A BULLET spits out his forehead.  Agent Smith watches the BODY fall with a THUD. 
AGENT SMITH Are orders that hard to follow? I'll say it again.  Morpheus must be taken alive.  Understand? 
INT.  WALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
They're almost falling, they're climbing so fast. 
Above them, plaster is smashed open as crunbling bits shower down on them, filling the crawlway with dust. 
INT.  ROOM 608 (MATRIX) - DAY 
Agent Smith looks into the open wall, at the exposed intestines of the building, and realizes where they are going. 
AGENT SMITH How like a rodent. 
INT.  WALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Just below, a RIFLE-BUTT SMASHES open the WALL, light raking across the lathe. 
COP I got him!  I got him! 
Trinity finds her gun first.  BULLET-HOLES POP out the WALL as she STRAFES the room, sending cops diving for cover. 
They continue, Trinity exposed for a roment, when a creeping cop smashes a fist through and grabs a fistful of her hair. 
He starts to yank her out when Neo kicks, his boot bursting through plaster and splintering lathe, knocking the Cop out. 
MORPHEUS Oh, so have I. 
Agent Smith smiles. 
INT.  SEWER MAIN (MATRIX) - DAY 
Trinity leads the others, fading into the darkness of the tunnel, lit only with shafts of lights streaming through the street drains as we RISE TOWARDS them -- 
THROUGH a grate INTO the fight. 
EXT.  STREET (MATRIX) - DAY 
Smith and Morpheus exchange a furious serious of blows that is witnessed but not believed by the surrounding police. 
Agent Smith delivers a punishing kick that staggers Morpheus. 
AGENT SMITH You can't win. 
Morpheus smiles. 
MORPHEUS I already have. 
He stands up and drops his fists; a steely resolve in his eyes. 
AGENT SMITH Take him. 
Cops swarm over Morpheus. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
Tank reaches out to the screen as if reaching for Morpheus. 
TANK No! 
EXT.  HOTEL LAFAYETTE (MATRIX) - DAY 
Cuff ed and beaten, Morpheus is thrown into a caged transport vehicle.  The DOOR CLANGS shut. 
Agent Jones finds Agent Smith. 
AGENT JONES The others were lost. 
AGENT SMITH You've taken care of Reagan? 
Agent Jones nods. 
AGENT SMITH Then the others do not matter. 
EXT.  STREET (MATRIX) - DAY 
A manhole cover cracks open.  Two eyes peek out just as a TRUCK RATTLES over it.  The THUNDER DOPPLERS AWAY and the cover opens. 
Neo, Trinity, Switch and Apoc climb out.  Trinity pulls a water-logged phone from her pocket. 
TRINITY We need a phone. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
Tank is again at the monitors, searching the Matrix. 
TANK We gotta find the others.  They're still alive. 
The PHONE RINGS. 
TANK Operator. 
CYPHER (V.O.) I need an exit!  Fast! 
TANK Cypher?  I thought they had you? 
EXT.  STREET (MATRIX) - DAY 
Cypher is standing at a public phone.  Across the street is the burning paddy wagon that appears to have collided witli an oncoming car. 
CYPHER There was an accident.  A fucking car accident.  All of a sudden. Boom.  They're all dead.  I still got the shakes but, Jesus, someone's going to make a believer out of me. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
Dozer spots the wreck. 
DOZER There he is. 
TANK I got you. 
CYPHER (V.O.) Just get me outta here. 
EXT.  STREET (MATRIX) - DAY 
TANK (V.O.) Nearest exit is Franklin and Erie. An old appliance store. 
Cypher hangs up and smiles as the fire trucks arrive. 
CYPHER An actor.  Definitely. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
The PHONE RINGS.  Tank answers. 
TANK Operator. 
TRINITY (V.O.) Tank, it's me. 
EXT.  STREET (MATRIX) - DAY 
The operator PHONE begins to RING- Cypher steps over the body of Tank and looks at the monitor. 
INT.  APPLIANCE STORE (MATRIX) - DAY 
Trinity can almost feel him watching them.  Every unanswered RING wrings her gut a little tighter, until -- 
CYPHER (V.O.) Hello, Trinity. 
TRINITY Cypher?  Where's Tank? 
CYPHER (V.O.) He had an accident. 
TRINITY An accident?  What about Dozer? Is Dozer there? 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
He walks over to Trinity's body, staring down at it hanging in its coma-like stillness. 
CYPHER You know, for a long time, I thought I was in love with you, Trinity.  I used to dream about you... 
He nuzzles his face against hers, feeling the softness of it. 
CYPHER You are a beautiful woman.  Too bad things had to work out like this. 
We INTERCUT BETWEEN the appliance store and the main deck. 
TRINITY You killed them. 
APOC What?! 
SWITCH Oh God. 
Wearing Tank's operator headgear, Cypher moves among the silent bodies. 
CYPHER In a way you're very lucky.  Most people never know why they die. One minute they're alive, the next they're dead.  No warning. Nothing.  That's why I thought maybe I should tell you.  It seemed the least I could do. 
He stands over the body of Morpheus, as his anger boils up out of him. 
CYPHER You see, the truth, the real,truth is that the war is over.  It's been over for a long time.  And guess what?  We lost!  Did you hear that?  We lost the war! 
TRINITY What about Zion? 
CYPHER Zion?  Zion is a part of this delusion.  More of this madness. That's why this has to be done. It has to end.  Now and forever. 
She suddenly sees the entire dark plan. 
TRINITY Oh rny God.  This is abzut Zion. You gave them Morpheus for the access codes to Zion. 
Cypher walks away from Morpheus and bends down next to Apoc's body. 
CYPHER You see, Trinity, we humans have a place in the future.  But it's not here.  It's in the Matrix. 
TRINITY The Matrix isn't real! 
CYPHER Oh, I disagree, Trinity.  I disagree.  I think the Matrix is more real than this world.  I mean, all I do is pull a plug here.  But there, you watch a man die. 
He grabs hold of the cable in Apoc's neck, twists it and yanks it out. 
CYPHER You tell me which is more real. 
Apoc seems to go blind for an instant, a scream caught in his throat, his hands reaching for nothing, and then falls dead.  Switch screams. 
CYPHER Welcome to the real world, right? 
He laughs. 
TRINITY Somehow, some way, you're going to pay for this. 
CYPHER Pay for it?  I'm not even going to remember it.  It'll be like it never happened.  The tree falling in the forest.  It doesn't make a sound. 
His hand slides around the neck of Switch as he takes hold of her plug. 
She suddenly feels her body severed from her mind as she is murdered. 
TRINITY Goddamn you, Cypher! 
CYPHER Don't hate me, Trinity.  I'm just the messenger.  And right now I'm going to prove that the message is true. 
He stands over Neo. 
CYPHER If Morpheus was right, then there's no way I can pull this plug, is there? 
She turns to Neo, eyes wide with fear, and he knows he is next. 
CYPHER If he is the One, then in the next few seconds there has to be some kind of miracle to stop me. Because if he dies like the others that means Morpheus was wrong. How can he be the One if he's dead? 
He takes hold of the cord when -- 
She hears an EXPLOSION and a scream. 
Cypher is on the ground, his left leg blown off at the knee.  He rolls over and finds Tank on the ground, and the sights of the plasma rifle. 
TANK How's it feel, Cypher?  Knowing you're about to die? 
NEO It's Tank!  He's alive. 
Cypher lunges for Neo's plug just as Tank BLOWS his head off. 
INT.  APPLIANCE STORE (MATRIX) - DAY 
They're both listening, trying to figure out what is happening when the store PHONE starts to RING. 
Trinity smiles, tears moistening her eyes as Neo throws his arms around her.  For a moment, it looks as if they might kiss before Trinity lets go. 
TANK You saw that place.  It's suicide. 
She glares at him. 
TANK I know what Morpheus means to you -- 
TRINITY No.  No, I don't think you do.  If you did, then you would know that I'm not letting him go.  Not without a fight, Tank. 
She yanks her harness tight. 
TRINITY Not without a fight. 
INT.  PRESIDENTIAL SUITE (MATRIX) - DAY 
Agent Smith stands in the bedroon of the enormous suite, staring out the windows at the city, below, shimmering with brilliant sunlight. 
AGENT SMITH Have you ever stood and stared at it, Morpheus?  Marveled at its beauty.  Its genius.  Billions of people just living out their lives... oblivious. 
Agent Brown sucks a serum from a glass vial, filling a hypodermic needle. 
AGENT SMITH Did you know that the first Matrix was designed to be a perfect human world?  Where none suffered, where everyone would be happy.  It was a disaster.  No one would accept the program.  Entire crops were lost. 
Agent Brown jams the needle into Morpheus' shoulder, and plunges down. 
AGENT SMITH Some believed we lacked the programming language to describe your perfect world.  But I believe that, as a species, human beings define their reality through suffering and misery. 
Agent Brown studies the screens as the life signs react violently to the injection. 
AGENT SMITH The perfect world was a dream that your primitive cerebrum kept trying to wake up from.  Which is why the Matrix was re-designed to this:  the peak of your civilization. 
He turns from the window. 
AGENT SMITH I say 'your civilization' because as soon as we start thinking for you, it really becomes our civilization, which is, of course, what this is all about. 
He sits down directly in front of Morpheus. 
AGENT SMITH Evolution, Morpheus.  Evolution. 
He lifts Morpheus' head. 
AGENT SMITH Like the dinosaur.  Look out that window.  You had your time. 
Morpheus stares hard at him, trying hard not to show the pain racking his mind. 
AGENT SMITH The future is our world, Morpheus. The future is our time. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
Neo goes to his chair and begins strapping in. 
TRINITY What do you think you're doing? 
NEO You need help.  I'm coming with you. 
TRINITY No.  No way.  Morpheus sacrificed himself so you could escape. There's no way you're going back in. 
NEO Morpheus did what he did because he believed that I'm something that I'm not. 
TRINITY What? 
NEO I'm not the One, Trinity.  The Oracle told me. 
Trinity is stunned. 
NEO She said I had a gift but I still had a lot to learn.  She told me maybe next life. 
TRINITY Did you tell Morpheus? 
NEO Why?  It wouldn't mean anything. He'd still believe what he wanted to believe.  But Morpheus is the one that matters.  He's more important than me and we both know it. 
He straps in. 
NEO I may not be what Morpheus thinks I am, but if I don't try to help him, then I'm not even what I think I am. 
TRINITY What are you? 
NEO His friend. 
INT.  PRESIDENTIAL SUITE (MATRIX) - DAY 
Agent Smith sits casually across from Morpheus who is hunched over, his body leaking and twitching. 
AGENT SMITH I'd like to share a revelation that I've had during my time here. It came to me when I tried to classify your species.  I've realized that you are not actually mammals. 
The life signs continue their chaotic patterns. 
AGENT SMITH Every mammal on this planet instinctively develops a natural equilibrium with the surrounding environment.  But you humans do not.  You move to an area and you multiply and multiply until every natural resource is consumed and the only way you can survive is to spread to another area. 
He leans forward. 
AGENT SMITH There is another organism on this planet that follows the same pattern.  Do you know what it is? A virus. 
He smiles. 
AGENT SMITH Human beings are a disease, a cancer of this planet.  You are a plague.  And we are... the cure. 
INT.  MAIN DECK 
Trinity and Neo hang motionless in the suspension unit. Tank is at the operations station. 
TANK Okay.  Store's open.  What do you need? 
TRINITY (V.O.) Guns.  Lots of guns. 
Beneath their trench coats is an arsenal of weapons slung from climbing harnesses. 
Neo hits the emergency stop.  He pulls down part of the false ceiling and finds the elevator shaft access panel. 
INT.  PRESIDENTIAL SUITE (MATRIX) - DAY 
Agent Jones looks at Morpheus. 
AGENT JONES I think they're trying to save him. 
INT.  ELEVATOR SHAFT (MATRIX) - DAY 
Neo ratchets down a clamp onto the elevator cable.  Both of them lock on.  He looks up the long, dark throat of the building and takes a deep breath. 
NEO There is no spoon. 
Neo whips out his gun and presses it to the cable, lower than where they attached themselves. 
BOOM!  The CABLE SNAPS. 
The counter-weights plummet, yanking Trinity and Neo up through the shaft as -- 
The elevator falls away beneath them, distending space, filling it with the sound of WHISTLING METAL as they soar to the top. 
INT.  LOBBY (MATRIX) - DAY 
The ELEVATOR hits the botton. 
BA-BOOM! 
The massive EXPLOSION blows open the doors, fire clouds engulfing the elevator section of the lobby. 
INT.  PRESIDENTIAL SUITE (MATRIX) - DAY 
The Agents hear the BLAST AND FIRE ALARMS. 
AGENT JONES Lower level -- 
AGENT BROWN They are actually attacking. 
INT.  ELEVATOR SHAFT (MATRIX) - DAY 
Hanging by a rope, Trinity hot-wires the panel for the door. 
INT.  TOP FLOOR (MATRIX) - DAY 
Nervous, the Marines watch as the ELEVATOR "DINGS" softly and slides open. 
Black smoke rises out of the exposed shaft. 
The nearest Marine eases to the edge, peering down at the churning blaze engulfing the lower levels. 
He does not see Trinity and Neo above him until it is too late. 
Krack!  Neo kicks, knocking the Marine flying down into the shaft. 
Before the others can react, Trinity flips out into the hall, decking the nearest Marine.  Neo cracks another. 
The fight is over before it begins. 
INT.  PRESIDENTIAL SUITE (MATRIX) - DAY 
An enormous EXPLOSION THUNDERS above them, shaking the building.  The ALARM SOUNDS, emergency sprinklers begin showering the room. 
Agent Smith smashes a table. 
AGENT SMITH Find them and destroy them! 
Agent Jones nods and touches his ear piece. 
EXT.  ROOF (MATRIX) - DAY 
The roof-access tower is now engulfed in flames as Neo and Trinity lay waste to a dozen more Marines. 
Guns and knives, like extensions of their bodies used with the same deadly precision as their feet and their fists. 
Across the roof, the pilot inside the army helicopter watches the ferocious onslaught. 
PILOT I repeat, we are under attack! 
Suddenly his face, his whole body dissolves, consumed by spreading locust-like swarm, of STATIC as -- 
Agent Jones emerges. 
Just as she drops the last Marine, Trinity sees what's coming. 
Neo sees her, the fear in her face, and he knows what is behind him. 
Screaming, he whirls, GUNS filling his hands with thought-speed. 
Fingers PUMPING, SHELLS ejecting, dancing up and away, we look through the sights and gun smoke at -- 
The Agent blurred with motion -- 
Until the HAMMERS CLICK against empty metal. 
NEO Trinity! 
Agent Jones charges. 
NEO ... help. 
His GUN BOOMS as we enter the liquid space of -- 
And finally Agent Jones. 
Neo stares at Morpheus, trying to will him into action. 
NEO Get up, Morpheus!  Get up! 
Morpheus sits unmoving, his head still down. 
Neo grabs the climbing rope just as marines burst into the adjoining room. 
He attaches only one end to his harness when they OPEN FIRE. 
Quickly he swings the GUN, SPRAYING the other room, WINDOWS SHATTERING, FURNITURE EXPLODING, marines diving for cover. 
INT.  HALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Just outside the Presidential Suite, three marines blister with snow-static. 
INT.  PRESIDENTIAL SUITE (MATRIX) - DAY 
Morpheus lifts his face into the room's rain.  His eyes, still white, begin to blink, twitch, then close. 
And when he opens them, they are again dark and flashing with fire. 
The Agents knife into the room, FIRING even as Neo's BULLET TRAILS chase them. 
Morpheus strains at his handcuffs. 
The Agents and the marines turn the tide, BLASTING LEAD, RICOCHETING, POCK-MARKING the COPTER. 
FIRING wildly, Neo turns to see Morpheus rising, snapping the handcuffs, starting for the window. 
Agent Smith stops and sees Morpheus run past the open bedroom door. 
AGENT SMITH Nooo! 
He FIRES, sweeping across the sheetrocked wall in a perfect line. 
For an instant, we see the BULLETS SHRED, PUNCTURING the WALL, searing through the wet air with jet trails of chalk. 
And as Morpheus starts to dive for the window, a bullet buries itself in his leg -- 
Knocking him off balance. 
NEO He won't make it. 
Morpheus lunges, out of control -- 
As Neo spins, every move a whip crack -- 
Snapping the other rope-end onto a bolted bar. 
Morpheus begins to fall when Neo hurls himself into the wide blue empty space -- 
Flying for a moment. 
The rope snaking out behind him; an umbilical cord attached to a machine. 
As their two bodies, set in motion, rushing at each other on a seemingly magnetic course until -- 
They collide. 
Almost bouncing free of each other, arms, legs, scrambling, hands searching in furious desperation, finding hold and clinging. 
Until the line ends, snapping taut, cracking their fragile embrace.  Morpheus tumbles, legs flipping over, falling down -- 
The ground deliriously distant -- 
As Neo snatches hold of his mentor's still handcuffed wrist. 
NEO Gotcha! 
Trinity is already pulling the copter up and away. 
As Agent Smith grabs the M-16 from the nearest marine. 
He'll bring them all down.  Targeting the helicopter, he aims at something only he can see: the oil line. 
PONK.  PONK.  PONK.  The rear HULL is PUNCHED full of holes and smoke and oil pours out like black blood. 
TRINITY Shit-shit-no! 
Neo is pulling Morpheus up to him when he hears the HELICOPTER BEGIN TO DIE. 
NEO Oh fuck. 
Trinity throws the helicopter towards the roof of the nearest building. 
Morpheus and Neo cling to one another as they and the machine above them begin to fall. 
The ENGINE GRINDS, the CHOPPING BLADES start to slow while -- 
The Agents stand in the open shattered window, watching the helicopter disappear behind taller buildings. 
Carried by its nomentum, Trinity guides the parabolic fall over the nearest roof where -- 
Neo and Morpheus drop safely, rolling free as the rope goes slack.  Neo gets to his feet, trying to detach himself but -- 
The helicopter is falling too fast, arcing over the roof like a setting sun -- 
The coils of slack snap taught -- 
Yanking Neo off his feet, dragging him with ferocious speed towards the edge even as -- 
The keyboard clicking, Tank searches for an exit. Trinity screams into the headset. 
TRINITY Neo, you better get your ass back here! 
INT.  CAR 
NEO I'm trying, Trinity.  I'm trying. 
TANK (V.O.) I got one! 
Neo glances to his right and sees Agent Brown, now driving the car beside his.  Agent Brown swerves, slamming into him. 
TANK (V.O.) Wabash and Lake.  A hotel. 
Neo fights the steering wheel as Agent Brown pushes the car up over the median. 
TANK (V.O.) Room 303. 
Neo drops the phone as his car bucks into the opposing lane -- 
Directly into the charging path of an enormous truck driven by Agent Smith. 
Neo dives from the Mercedes as the truck plows into it, rending metal and GLASS, crushing through, totaling other cars, as it EXPLODES. 
Neo is up and running even as orange and black clouds billow up behind hin. 
EXT.  CITY STREET (MATRIX) - DAY 
Three figures silhouette by the burning wreckage become the three agents. 
Further down the street, Neo hauls his broken, bleeding ass. 
Agents Brown and Smith slow, touching their ear-pieces as Agent Jones continues chasing full-bore. 
Neo spins around a corner, racing toward a hotel called: the Heart of Chicago Hotel. 
Only Agent Jones is behind him now. 
Neo dives into the alley.  At the far end he sees Agent Brown charging.  Neo leaps for the fire escape and begins to climb. 
INT.  SEWER MAIN 
Sentinels open and shift like killer kaleidoscopes as they ready their weapons, swarming around the Nebuchadnezzar. 
INT.  HOVERCRAFT 
The hovercraft booms as machines drop onto it. 
TANK I'm going to make the call. 
MORPHEUS Do it! 
INT.  "HEART OF CHICAGO" HOTEL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Agent Snith is in the elevator when he hears the DISTANT RING of a PHONE. 
EXT.  ALLEY (MATRIX) - DAY 
The agents chase him, FIRING, BULLETS SPARKING and RICOCHETING even as Neo jumps for the third-floor platform. 
Neo kicks in the window, jumping into the hall.  The doors count backwards:  310...  309... 
INT.  HOVERCRAFT 
Morpheus grabs the biggest gun he can find.  The lasers begin to slice through the hull. 
TRINITY Where is he? 
TANK Almost there. 
MORPHEUS He's going to make it. 
TRINITY Hurry, Neo. 
INT.  HALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Neo can hear the PHONE RINGING. 
Agent Brown reaches the broken window behind him just as Neo grabs the handle of 303, throwing open the door to find -- 
Agent Sniith, waiting, .45 cocked. 
Neo can't move -- can't think -- 
BOOM. 
INT.  HOVERCRAFT 
Neo's body jerks, and everyone hears it as the life monitors snap flat-line. 
Trinity screams.  Morpheus is frozen in disbelief. 
INT.  HALL (MATRIX) - DAY 
Three holes in his chest, Neo falls to the blue shag carpeting, blood smearing down the wallpaper. 
Agent Smith stands over him, still aiming, taking no chances. 
AGENT SMITH Check him. 
INT.  HOVERCRAFT 
Through the lasered opening, Morpheus screams, blasting away at the machines; comet-wads of plasma burning holes in their armored housings. 
