DETECTIVE I didn't think anybody was here. 
SGT. ADAMS Everybody's usually a little late. 
HALLWAY 
Sgt. Adams leads the detective down a hall, giving the tour. 
SGT. ADAMS All the cold investigations in the city are collected and delivered over to us. We call each witness to see if they can add anything to their original statement. 
DETECTIVE And if they can? 
SGT. ADAMS We send the file back to the original precinct for follow-up. Don't get your hopes up, though. 
The Sergeant continues towards the center of the building, farther from the light of the windows. He stops at a door. 
SGT. ADAMS Once you've gone through the file and come up empty, bring it here... 
FILE ROOM/MAX'S OFFICE 
They enter a windowless cave, long rows of metal cabinets stretching on forever into the heart of the building. At a desk in the corner, Max slumps over a stack of files. 
D 
M 
SGT. ADAMS Max here handles our filing. Once it hits his desk, a case is officially dead. 
ax looks up, dark circles from his long night in the subway. He nods, but the Detective is too busy making a note to see. D ETECTIVE What if there's no phone number for a witness? Should I follow up in person? 
SGT. ADAMS Nope, we don't do that down here. 
iscretely, Max slides his cut-up knuckles under the desk... 
DETECTIVE I don't understand, then how-- 
SGT. ADAMS How do you solve that unsolvable murder mystery and redeem yourself? 
DETECTIVE The grand jury couldn't find-- 
SGT. ADAMS Stop. Trust me, there's a tragic story behind why I'm here giving you this tour. We all did something, so just save it. (moving for the door) Follow me to the break room... 
The Detective turns to Max, embarrassed after his reprimand. 
DETECTIVE We should get a beer after work, or something... 
Max smiles and nods, but his eyes give him away as a liar: 
MAX Yeah.   Maybe so. 
HALLWAY 
The Detective steals a look at Max as Adams shuts his door. 
DETECTIVE So what did he do? 
W 
M 
J 
SGT. ADAMS (sharply) Nothing. 
Naturally, this reaction piques the detective's curiosity. 
SGT. ADAMS R emember when you were a kid, and you'd hold your breath when you went past a graveyard? 
The detective nods.     Adams glances through the window at Max. 
SGT. ADAMS ust...try to leave him alone. 
MAX'S OFFICE 
Max sneaks a sideways glance to the door, watching Adams lead the new Detective away. Once they're gone, Max reaches into his desk and removes a file... `PRESTON, WILLIAM A.' 
ax goes to a rusted cabinet and buries the file deep inside. 
INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
A lock POPS.     Max steps inside, only silence to greet him. 
Max lays his jacket across the back of a worn leather chair, footsteps REVERBERATING because there's little other furniture to absorb the sound. He keeps walking... 
KITCHEN 
Max doesn't answer. His eyes have drifted back to Natasha. She plucks a drink from a passing tray, revealing a dark smudge across the inside of her wrist as she does. 
TREVOR I'd invite you in, but... 
Suddenly intent, Max pushes past Trevor and into the loft. 
MAX hanks. 
LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Max weaves through the party towards Natasha, out of place in his utilitarian clothes. She looks up as he gets closer... N ATASHA ou decided to stay for a while. 
She speaks with a Russian accent - smiling, a little nervous. Rather than answering, Max's eyes drop to her wrist. 
NATASHA ow it's your turn to say something... 
ax takes her hand, gently turning it to reveal her tattoo: a black wing, stylized feathers tracing faint blue veins. 
MAX That's interesting. 
NATASHA Thank you. It's... (glancing past Max) Shit. 
Max follows her gaze to the front door, where Trevor is nervously greeting another new arrival: MONA SAX. She's striking, beautiful but also a little frightening. It doesn't hurt that she's flanked by BODYGUARDS. Russian Mob. 
Seeing Natasha standing with Max, Mona barrels across the room towards them. People stand aside to let her pass. 
ithout preamble, Mona begins YELLING at Natasha in Russian. Natasha RESPONDS in kind, clearly intimidated by Mona. 
Abruptly, Mona grabs Natasha's arm, jerking her off balance. 
MAX Why don't you let go-- 
S 
MONA (in perfect English) Mind your business. 
Mona returns to Natasha, dragging her towards the door. Natasha's tone becomes PLEADING, physically no match for Mona. Max steps in, reaching up to touch Mona's shoulder... I t happens in a flash: Mona spins and takes hold of Max's arm. Incredibly, he's just as fast, slipping free of the grip that would surely have snapped his wrist... 
For a moment, Max and Mona stare each other down. Surprised, reevaluating each other. Natasha continues to TALK, her Russian anxious as Mona's bodyguards push through the crowd. 
Mona's eyes drop to Max's chest, where the tussle pulled his coat open to reveal a low-pro holster and tarnished badge. 
With the flick of her wrist, Mona stops her guards' advance. 
The crowd begins to notice the altercation. Natasha keeps TALKING, trying desperately to make peace and reassure Mona of something. Mona's eyes cut between Natasha and Max... 
till apprehensive, Mona shakes her head and walks away. 
NATASHA My sister. (beat) Sort of a bitch. 
As Max nods at the understatement, Trevor rushes over, forcing a broad smile to reassure his guests. He pulls Max's coat closed over the badge and ushers him towards the door. 
TREVOR You have to go. Now. 
MAX (pulling free) Fine. I just want to ask her something first... 
Max turns to the spot where Natasha had been.   She's gone. 
HALLWAY - LATER 
The party has grown more crowded. Max fights his way down a dark hall, searching the shadowed faces he passes. Back here, the music is nothing but GROWLING BASS. 
N 
S 
A 
A flickering glow escapes the gaps around one door... 
DARK ROOM 
A ring of candles in the center of the floor provides the only light. It's not enough to really see the PEOPLE inside. We hear them CHANTING, low voices MURMURING in unison... 
Quick glimpses in the candle light, bare flesh writhing. Cast on the walls, corresponding shadows twist and shift... 
A black feather billows across the floor between candles. Spreading up the wall, a new shadow rises above the rest... 
pair of wings - long and distorted in the candle light. 
Max appears in the doorway as the shadows loose their shape - Max only catching a glimpse, not sure what he's seeing... 
HALLWAY 
As Max strains to see detail in the dark room, a face materializes in the haze: cheeks laced with tattoos, eyes twinkling flames sunk in deep shadow. JACK LUPINO. 
moment later, the few working lamps on the street dim... 
N 
R 
A 
ALLEY 
Natasha barrels down the alley, squinting to see ahead.        The music is a little louder, BASS shaking the dumpsters. A wind picks up, garbage blowing... 
Suddenly unsettled by something, Natasha's pace slows.      She tenses, all her swagger vanishing before our eyes... 
can RATTLES in the alley behind her.    Natasha spins... 
Nothing - just the FLICKERING of moths swarming the alley's only light, their shadows black shapes against the bricks. 
The sound of much larger BEATING WINGS fills the alley... 
Eyes wide with terror, Natasha searches for something in the shapes cast by the moths, dread deepening as she finds it: 
eal winged shapes mix with the shadows, FLAPPING wildly... 
Natasha CRIES OUT, stumbling back.      She turns, running... 
NATASHA ot yet!   Please, just let me... 
Natasha's SCREAMS seem lost in the chaos of wind and WINGS and distant MUSIC. She suddenly stops running... 
More SHADOWS assemble ahead of her, their black wings open. 
INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - MORNING 
Max hurriedly dresses, wearing the same suit from yesterday. He picks up his keys, searching around for something else - feeling the pockets of his jacket, down in the cushions... 
OFFICE 
Max moves up the sidewalk, nearly at the steps of his office. A rough-running ENGINE idles up the street, getting closer. Slowly, Max realizes that he's being followed. He turns... A LEX HILLMAN sits behind the wheel - about Max's age, but in much rougher condition, everything about him a little ashen. He watches Max turn away from the office and move closer. 
Max returns Alex's stare. We don't know if they're about to smile or open fire. They don't seem to know, either. 
Alex slides over and throws the passenger side door open. 
S 
A 
INT. ALEX'S CAR - DAY 
Alex and Max ride in silence, a palpable tension in the car. 
lex pulls a pack of cigarettes from his pocket and shakes one out. He holds the pack out to Max, who shakes his head. 
Alex nods, smiling, using his lighter and then laying it with the pack within Max's reach. Max doesn't even glance down. After a silent moment, Alex looks over at Max and frowns. 
ALEX You're not serious, are you? 
Shaking his head in disbelief, Alex pulls to the curb. T hey've parked at a crime scene - the alley in front of them sealed with police tape, COPS posted to keep onlookers away. 
MAX What's this? 
Alex pulls a flask from under his seat, taking a quick pull. 
ALEX I need you to look at something. 
EXT. ALLEY - DAY 
Alex approaches the alley, pulling on a leather jacket and snapping a badge onto his belt. The cops let him pass. 
Max follows Alex, slowing as he crosses the police tape. By the crowd of CSI TECHS, what started here didn't end well. There's blood everywhere, a dozen white sheets on the ground. 
MAX What happened to them? 
ALEX Her.     Just one. 
Confused, Max studies the sheets. On second look, they aren't covering anything quite big enough to be a whole body. 
ALEX omebody found her leg near the sidewalk, called it in a few hours later. We found the other one in the dumpster over there. 
DETECTIVE #1 (O.S.) I don't believe it. 
M 
A 
At the moment that registers, a NOISE in the hallway behind him sends Max ducking for cover in the doorway beside him. Max crouches, gun raised, staring at Alex's motionless body. 
MAX Alex! 
FOOTSTEPS grow closer...slow, steady... 
Max uses the fragments of mirror scattered around Alex's legs, each giving a tiny view of the hallway... 
One piece shows a FIGURE moving closer, shrouded in darkness. A nother reflection shows a set of eyes. Frozen. Frantic. It's Alex, staring at Max, seeming to silently beg for help. Max looks from the reflection to the legs. There's no way... 
There's no way Alex's head is still attached to his body. 
Thunderstruck, Max looses track of the shadows moving closer to his hiding spot, unable to pull his eyes away from Alex. The Figure lunges out of the shadows, slamming into Max... 
The Dark Shape's slashing blows glint in the moonlight, cold metal slicing the air faster than Max can fend off... 
CUT TO: 
A RAPID SERIES OF IMAGES: 
Max drags himself up the hall, hands slicing on the shards. The air echoes with angry VOICES, LAUGHTER and SCREAMS. Blood drips down the walls, shadows teem with movement... 
B 
T 
Y 
The FLAPPING grows louder, gusting WIND scattering glass. Max SHOUTS, disoriented, instinctively pushing himself on. Alex's eyes, frozen wide, watch as Max crawls closer... 
Shadows in the air above Max roil with movement. Demonic HOWLS rattle the windows. Max reaches out to Alex... 
Above them, black wings POUND. I NT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY 
Max's eyes pop open. 
He lies in a hospital bed, surrounded by flashing machinery. Beyond the soft WHIR of equipment fans, the room is silent. 
BB (O.C.) The E.R. doctor's old man was a patrolman in the 45th. I got him to get you a private room. 
In a chair by the bed, BB HENSLEY (50s) watches Max wake up. BB's face is weathered and hard, but his smile is kind. 
BB our contact information was... pretty out of date, you know, but one of the dispatchers remembered me and your dad riding together back in the day. 
Max nods groggily, struggling to find his bearings... 
Suddenly, something breaks through. 
MAX Alex. 
BB nods, shivering at the mental image his name produces. 
BB he first unit to respond must've scared them away before they could do the same thing to you. Pretty remarkable, considering your luck. 
MAX He was trying to tell me something. 
B Was he alive when you showed up?   Did you get a look at the guys who-- 
M 
J 
M 
MAX No.   I get Bflashes, but it's...wrong. 
B I hate to say it, but you need to come up with something better than that. They've got nothing for leads, so the whole force has you pegged as the prime suspect. 
AX You tell them where to find me. 
BB No need.   The funeral starts in an hour. 
Max pops up, tangling the IV tubes running into his hand. 
BB ust slow down.   You need to-- 
Max wraps the clear tube around his hand and SNAPS it free. 
AX What I need is to borrow some dress blues. Can you help me out? 
BB (reluctant) Yeah. My office is on the way. 
As Max takes an unsteady step onto the cold tile floor, a concerned BB throws his overcoat across Max's shoulders. 
INT. BB'S CAR - DAY 
Max shakes his head. 
Up ahead, a young mother tends to two little girls dressed in black, escorted through the cemetery gate by the HONOR GUARD. CHRISTA HILLMAN, Alex's widow. Face blank, still in shock. 
B B suddenly anxious) Go ahead up and say something to Christa. I'll find us some seats... 
ax threads his way through the mass of UNIFORMED COPS waiting to enter the cemetery. One by one they notice Max, jaws clenching. Max doesn't realize the gauntlet he's in, distracted by a glance of BB slinking into the graves... 
...where NICOLE HORNE watches the funeral from among the headstones, almost overdressed in head-to-toe black. Close at hand, JASON COLVIN holds Nicole's umbrella. 
B approaches Nicole, body language weak and deferential... 
Max glances back at the path and finds himself facing a wall of angry cops. He keeps walking, no sign of backing down. 
CHRISTA (O.C.) Let him through. 
Even with the cops making way, the walk to Christa is hard - the heartbreak and grief on her face slowing Max's gait. 
AX Christa, I'm really sorry about what-- 
CHRISTA Don't talk to me like some stranger. 
Christa's eyes bore into Max with all the weight of a long and deep friendship, momentarily shaming him into silence. 
CHRISTA Who did this to him, Max? 
MAX We don't have a lot, yet... 
Christa steps towards Max, teeth gritted with powerless rage. 
N 
I T 
CHRISTA (seething) When everything happened to you, Alex completely fell apart. He ruined his life, he cared that much. So what are you going to do for him, now? M ax could melt under those eyes, but Christa turns her back and continues up the path to Alex's waiting coffin. 
Shamed, Max turns away and starts back down the path alone. 
BRAVURA Detective Payne? 
Everyone turns to see JIM BRAVURA (40s) leaning on the fence. 
BRAVURA .A.   I need you to come with me. 
hough they'd been moments from brawling, there's a common reaction from the other cops: nobody likes this guy. Max looks around, humiliated. 
MAX ow? 
BRAVURA Now. 
GRAVESIDE 
The honor guard stands in formation by the flag-draped casket. The PRIEST waits, his bible ripping in the wind... 
Christa twists around in her chair, looking down at the cemetery gate. She sees the crowd, Max being escorted away. 
CHRISTA (sad, to the priest) Okay. 
Above them all, Nicole Horne stands like a shadow between the graves, too far away to hear the words of the priest. 
INT. BRAVURA'S OFFICE 
A cramped office, packed with boxes - a civil servant's tomb. Wedged behind the desk, Bravura sorts through his notes. Max and BB sit across the desk, left on ice while Bravura reads. 
I 
H 
Bravura slides a folder over to Max - photographs of the alley, Natasha's covered body. Bravura watches his reaction. 
BRAVURA ow'd the girl have your wallet? 
MAX She stole it. 
BRAVURA Like...picked your pocket? 
Max shrugs. 
BRAVURA So you didn't know she was a prostitute? 
The slightest uncomfortable look passes between Max and BB. 
MAX No, I didn't.    We met through a friend. 
BRAVURA Trevor Duncan. He's your friend? 
t once, you're struck by how this is the opposite of the cold case department: desks cluttered by labor instead of neglect, DETECTIVES engaged in their telephone conversations. 
Eyes start to find him. 
ax marches forward, ignoring the spreading wave of shock. 
Max stops at a door marked `ALEX HILLMAN.'    It's locked. 
ax JIGGLES the door knob. 
F 
M 
B 
DETECTIVE #1 (shouting) Hey! 
Max doesn't look up.       He keeps SHAKING the handle, desperate. 
DETECTIVE #1 (cont'd) Hey asshole, that door's locked for a reason. 
One by one, the detectives climb to their feet, expressions showing outrage and anger. They close in on Max... 
DETECTIVE #2 God damn it, that means you need a-- M ax gives the knob a final twist, and the door swings open. 
MAX (to himself) There wasn't ever a key. 
Max steps inside.       Enraged, the detectives start to follow... 
ut the door SLAMS again in their faces. 
ALEX'S OFFICE 
The doorknob RATTLES, no method this time. SHOUTS and BANGS ring through the door. Ignoring it, Max surveys the room... 
The office is bare, no decorations or personal touches. Max walks deeper into the room, opening a filing cabinet. Empty. 
Trying to remain calm while the door SHAKES violently, Max turns his attention to the desk. One drawer empty... 
Max tries another drawer, and finds this one locked. 
ax drives his boot into the drawer, AGAIN and AGAIN. 
DETECTIVE (O.C.) What are you doing in there? 
Teeth gritted against the pain, Max delivers a final KICK. 
The drawer front shatters and collapses.       Max reaches inside. 
iles - not criminal jackets like the ones in Cold Case. More official, somehow. Max flips through one at random... 
`GREEN, OWEN A.'       Not a mug shot, but a military ID photo. 
M 
A 
Out in the hall, the crowd of detectives seems to grow larger, the POUNDING on the door becoming more severe. T he SLAMMING sounds outside push Max deeper into the desk, frantically spilling the contents onto the floor... 
Michelle's face. 
Max's eyes go wide. 
Another photograph of Michelle. 
nother. 
Shaking, Max's hands dig deeper... 
An impact sends CRACKS splitting up the length of the door... 
HOMICIDE OFFICE 
Two detectives throw their shoulders into the door. The rest crowd around them, foaming at the mouth to get inside to Max. 
One more lunge... 
The door SHATTERS, sending the detectives tumbling inside... 
ALEX'S OFFICE 
Photos and documents are scattered across the floor, over Alex's desk, mixed in with the fragments of the broken desk. 
From an open window, the storm's first flurries drift inside. 
Mona flashes Max a look before POUNDING on a door. 
MONA (calling through the door) Owen, open up. 
A louder, longer KNOCK. 
MONA Open-- 
A muted SCREAM filters through the door, cutting her short. Max DRIVES his boot into the door, splintering the jam... 
INT. OWEN'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS 
Max and Mona rush into the room, breath smoking from the cold. All of the windows are open. Gusts of snow blow inside, drifts of white powder extending into the room... 
MAX (calling out) Owen? 
He SCREAMS his response from the next room.    They rush... 
LIVING ROOM 
...through the door, weapons drawn.    Both stop short: 
OWEN GREEN is all alone in the room. SCREAMING, swatting at empty air around him, each limb moving a different direction. M ax lowers his pistol - ready for anything, not for this. 
Owen's feet slip over the snow, toes curling desperately on the ice, searching for traction as they slide closer... 
OWEN (breathless, to no one) Help me. 
...to an open window on the other side of the room. 
MONA Owen? 
He doesn't seem to hear - sweat streams down his terrified face, snowflakes frosting the perspiration on his chest. Owen's eyes are instead drawn through the open windows... 
..where SILHOUETTES flicker against the storm-darkened sky. 
Oblivious to the shapes outside, Max and Mona watch Owen's terror intensify, his dervish dance growing more frantic... 
Outside every window, BLACK SHAPES float closer in the air above the street - vaguely human, long wings POUNDING... 
...sending gusts of wind ripping through the windows, kicking up snow and ice. Max and Mona shrink back, shielding their eyes at the blast as Owen's tortured SCREAMS fill the room... 
Twisting like he's trying to pull free from invisible hands, Owen reaches the window. As if trying to push back, his hands and feet fly up to the trim around the window... 
MAX Owen, wait... 
Unable to turn around, Owen's eyes find the reflected images of Max and Mona in the window he's being pulled to... H is attention is torn from their reflections on top of the glass by the spectres looming beyond it outside. Their claws reach in, raking his body, pulling him closer... 
Realizing that Owen isn't stopping, Max rushes towards him. 
OWEN (screaming) Make them stop, tell them I can't fly... 
Max lunges forward, trying in vain to cover yards... 
...when Owen only has inches.    He's ripped into the void... 
EXT. OWEN'S BUILDING - CONTINUOUS 
Max throws himself forward into the window, looking down... 
...where Owen falls, looking up at Max helplessly... 
... then less terrified, as the wind keeps RUSHING past... 
...and then, just before impact, relieved. 
Owen CRASHES into the sidewalk. 
B 
Mona races up to join Max in the window. For a stunned beat they look down at the shattered body of Owen Green - his unblinking eyes frozen on the heavens, collecting snowflakes. 
MONA (shaken) What did we just see? 
No answer, Max studies Owen's twisted body. Long, finger- like bruises trace out from his neck, blending with the tattoos that lace his grey skin. Grinning skulls, the USMC eagle/globe/anchor... 
...and a pair of wings, just like Natasha's. I NT. TATTOO PARLOR - NIGHT 
Max drops a Polaroid of Owen's tattoo onto a glass counter. 
lue water ripples through translucent pipes in the walls and floor, the air of the small room glowing like the ocean. A mirrored ceiling repeats the tattoo parlor again above. 
MAX You're sure this is the place? 
MONA Natasha had all her work done here. 
EXT. RAGNA ROK - DUSK 
In a block of abandoned storefronts, only one retains a spark of life, its red sign burning in the dying light: RAGNA ROK. T he streets are more crowded there, people shuffling towards that sign and the sounds of DARK MUSIC filtering from inside. 
INT. MAX'S CAR - DUSK 
Max's car turns onto the block, slowly approaching Ragna Rok. Max and Mona silently absorb the scene on the street. Even from halfway down the block, BASS from the club reaches them. 
MONA They all look... 
Across the street, Max watches someone dragging a limp body by one leg. Nobody he walks past seems to notice. 
MAX Like Owen. 
Max keeps his speed slow, idling away up the block. 
MAX This isn't anything I've seen before. 
M 
Ragna Rok recedes in the mirror, the block between it and the car studded with more smoldering cars and dead-eye faces, their numbers seeming to grow even as Mona watches. 
ONA (CONT'D) You ever been to Rome? 
Max doesn't answer, the coming plague before him registering. Mona glances up at a passing street sign - "LITTLE ITALY." 
MONA (CONT'D) Better cities than this one have fallen. (pointing to the curb) This is far enough. 
Mona opens her car door and climbs out, leaning back inside. 
MONA (CONT'D) Sorry about the chain. 
Mona SLAMS the door and moves off down the sidewalk, blending into the crowd. Max drops the car into gear, giving one last glance to Ragna Rok before pulling away. T here's some flicker of movement on the rooftop... 
U EXT. RAGNA ROK - ROOFTOP - DUSK 
p on the roof, MUSIC inside the club RATTLES old pipes. Perched at the edge of the roof, a figure CHANTS along... 
Jack Lupino - the tattooed face we caught   a glimpse of in the candle light of Trevor's party, now fully   visible in the failing sun and no less frightening. His    colorless eyes absorb the street, the SCREAMS, Max's car   pulling away... 
On his back, the tattoos of two elaborate black wings. Steam rises from ink-blackened skin, snow melting before it lands. 
INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Max sits in his chair in the silent room, turning the pages of Michelle's book. There's more than grief on his cut and bruised face tonight, hands not trembling the way they were. 
Fruit bowls, delicate charcoal nudes flip past... 
Frustrated, Max lets the images drift by with less sentiment: images no longer speaking to the questions he needs answered. With an exasperated sigh, Max slams the book closed... 
A faint white sliver appears in the cover. 
T 
Max leans closer. It's the corner of a piece of paper, protruding from a razor-thin cut in the spine of the sketchbook, invisible under all but the closest inspection. 
Max runs his thumbnail into the gap, spreading glue CRACKLING - he flinches, almost afraid to cause the book pain. F or a moment, Max is caught between his desire to protect the memento and to see what's hidden inside. A deep breath... 
With a sharp pull, the cover of the book SHEARS away. 
The pages wad and wrinkle, old paint flaking off. The cover he'd caressed RIPS. Fluttering to the floor, a sheaf of yellowed pages hidden in the cover flutter to the floor. 
Max opens the folded pages. The first is nearly identical to what we saw inside: a bouquet of flowers, unfinished. Max scrutinizes the pencil strokes...suddenly, his eyes go wide: 
A little pair of bat-like wings. In the corner of the page, having nothing to do with the rest of the still life. 
Max turns to the next page. There's a another drawing of wings - larger this time, pencil strokes more energetic. 
Horrified by what he's seeing, Max's hands tremble as they turn the page. On the next, the wings are the main drawing. 
On the next, they're scrawled in smeared ink. 
MAX (nauseous, to himself) No... 
The wings begin to lose their shape, overlapping. 
Growing together. 
The last page is completely black. 
INT. COP BAR - NIGHT 
Even with everybody out of uniform, the builds and body language mark this as a cop bar. BB rushes inside, hair giving him away as having been asleep shortly before. 
he bar is still decorated with plastic mistletoe and fake snow. BB looks at the BARTENDER, who motions to the back... 
MAX (calling, frantic) Michelle! 
Max throws his shoulder into the door, SNAPPING the hinges... 
B 
C 
T 
M 
BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 
The momentum sends Max tumbling inside... 
A MAN slips out of the window, one leg still inside... 
ax OPENS FIRE at the retreating shape. 
Curtains billow in front of the open window, a summer sunset outside. Max lets the gun fall to his side, breathing hard. M ichelle huddles on the bed, baby wrapped tight in her arms. Max rushes over to her, reaching out to touch her shoulder. 
MAX Michelle... 
Her mouth is wide open, eyes unfocused.    Muscles slack. 
Michelle's not stunned.    She's not unconscious. 
he baby isn't just sleeping. 
The moment that hits him, the lights go out of Max's eyes. 
UT TO: 
INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Max stands at the door, seeing the room with those same eyes. 
The furniture is gone, all the carpet ripped out. One window is still open, no frilly curtains blocking the blackness outside. Snow gusts in, piling on the sill. 
BB (V.O.) We looked everywhere for the third guy, but there was nothing to go on. Not a hair of him left behind. 
Slowly marching across the room, Max SLAMS the window shut. 
INT. ASGARD BUILDING - BB'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
BB stands in the window, watching the storm. 
B I called in a favor before I retired, had him transferred to Cold Case while he dealt with the shock of it. I thought it we were patient, gave him time, Max would come back to his old self again. 
Bravura sits in front of the desk, watching BB. When BB finally looks over, the weight of the story showing in his eyes, Bravura's face B doesn't reveal any hint of emotion. 
B Look, I called you because I thought I recognized something in you. I thought if we could talk off the record-- 
BRAVURA I'm listening. 
BB (emotional) This isn't just some job stress freak- out. This is a man who lost everything, and who deserves a little understanding from the rest of us. If you'd known him before... (beat, pained) You'd want to believe him, too. 
BRAVURA Believe him about what? 
Not expecting this turn in the conversation, Bravura sits up. 
BRAVURA Are you saying you think Max did have something to do with Alex's murder? 
BB Absolutely not. Alex was his partner, they were like brothers...he couldn't have. There's no way. 
BRAVURA Then what are we talking about? 
BB Look, Max is like a son to me. Don't put me in a position to have to hang him. (beat, pained) But you should hear the kinds of things he's saying...hallucinations, none of it makes any sense to me. I'm worried he's going to get into another situation before I can convince him to come in. B RAVURA Are you telling me he was-- 
T 
B 
B 
B 
BB I'm telling you to find him tonight, before somebody else gets hurt. 
Bravura nods, reeling from the revelation of this new information. BB picks up his coat and starts for the door. 
BB Is there anything we can do to help you bring him in? Unofficially, of course... 
BRAVURA Bringing him in won't be a problem. Where I need your help will be his-- 
YOUNG COP Yeah? Is that what you said to your partner? 
MAX You don't understand. 
YOUNG COP (gesturing with the gun) Lay down on your face. 
Max studies the cop - stiff legs unsteady on the deep snow, his frostbitten fingers wrapped around the trigger. Trapped between two rows of locked doors, Max has no cover to run. 
Peeking through the snow at Max's feet, an extension cord snakes under the shivering cop's legs and down the corridor. 
T 
MAX (bending down) Okay, just take it easy. 
Max starts to lay down, causally laying his hand over the power cord. The cop edges closer, smirking as Max complies. 
YOUNG COP Word's gotten around about the sick shit you did to him, too. If I were you, I'd get ready for sort of a long ride back into the city... 
Max wraps his hand around the cord and whips it tight... 
The cop pitches backward, squeezing off a SHOT as he falls. Before he can fire again, Max pounces on the cop, driving a T knee into his chest and wrenching the pistol away. 
he cop twists in the extension cord, unplugging the lights. Max DRIVES the butt of the pistol into the side of his head. 
he cop goes limp. Max pulls the clip, clears the chamber and lets the gun fall in the snow beside the unconscious cop. 
Struggling to his feet, Max races down the corridor and scaling the icy chain link. He drops into the snow, immediately breaking into a dead run on the other side. 
INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT 
An express elevator HISSES upwards at great speed, the sleek interior like a European sports car. Alone inside, Jason Colvin watches the blur of numbers with dread. 
A muted CHIME, and the doors draw back... 
INT. AESIR SKYSCRAPER - PENTHOUSE OFFICE - NIGHT 
Thin steel beams loft through the air, three stories of open air encased by glass, a silent void projected into the heart of the storm. In the center of the room, a single black bar. 
It's a desk, obsidian, polished to a mirrored sheen. Aesir International's cool blue logo reflects across its surface. 
Jason Colvin approaches the desk, nervously watching the shadowed figure of Nicole Horne read through a document. Every hair, every stitch of clothing perfect. F ootsteps ECHOING, he reaches the desk and waits for a beat. 
O 
M 
N 
COLVIN We have a problem. 
icole cuts her eyes to Colvin - withering, a current of fear passing through him. With great effort, she smiles. 
INT. TRAIN - NIGHT 
Max slumps in his seat, watching the black sky whip past. The manila folder closed in his hands, fingers tracing the edges. Slowly, carefully, he lets the folder fall open. 
Max's eyes skim across the handwritten notes, lingering over underscored phrases and circled words. Drinking it in. 
On the next page, a sketch of black wings pulls Max's attention. With dread, he reads a note below the drawing: 
SUBJECTS DESCRIBE DEMONIC VISIONS, HYSTERICAL RAGE...' 
MAX (to himself) Subjects? 
The hypnotic motion of the train begins to change, the rhythm of the RAILS faltering a little. 
ax turns the page. More wings, each in a slightly different style, each version surrounded by descriptive notes... 
Max skims, excited, as the train's HICCUPS grow worse... 
As the blue and black world sweeps past outside the window, Max's face softens almost into a smile... 
All the lights go out.    The train rapidly loses speed... S tartled voices MURMUR. Windows that had been black glow to life as the passengers' eyes adjust to the dark car... 
utside, the moonless night becomes a hazy expanse of blue snow, covering the embankments along the railroad tracks and the broken-down houses in the distance. 
The darkness changes Max, too, hardening his face again. He tucks the folder safely into his coat and zips it up tight. 
At the front of the car, the windows begin to fill with light. The door opens, a flashlight beam sweeps inside... 
Pistol between his knees, Max pulls the hammer back... 
C 
An obese CONDUCTOR (40s) steps inside. Immediately, all of the other passengers begin to QUESTION HIM at once. 
AX Somebody at Aesir knows what-- 
BB (thunderstruck) Oh, my God. 
Slowly, BB turns to show Max the grief in his eyes. 
BB It's me.    I killed Alex. 
B 
Y 
MAX What are you talking about? 
BB He came to me about six months ago, asking about one of the executives at Aesir. At the time I had no reason to connect it to Michelle, I just thought... (beat, torn up) I tried to warn him, this guy has connections to some scary people-- 
MAX Who?   What's his name? 
BB hesitates, rattled by the rage in Max's eyes. 
BB Jason Colvin. He used to be the head of the pharmaceutical division, but he's moved up over the last few years. (beat) I guess Michelle probably reported directly to him... 
Max barely nods, jaw clenched as he scoops up the documents. 
BB ou've got copies of this stuff, right? 
Thinking for a moment, Max sets the folder down again and turns away towards the dark hallway. BB picks up the folder. 
BB e careful, Max. 
Max doesn't respond, storming off into the shadows. 
EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - DAWN 
The snow isn't deep near the charred and twisted metal of the train, melted by the fireball. Police tape rings the area. D ETECTIVES wander between yellow tarps in the train, sipping coffee. Out on the tracks, Bravura works alone. 
HOMICIDE COP Looks like ten bodies, give or take. Even in New York, that ought to be enough to earn Payne the spike. 
Y 
B 
BRAVURA The blast point is outside the train. 
None of the detectives want to encourage him by answering. 
BRAVURA ased on the spread of the wreckage... they moving very fast, either. 
HOMICIDE COP He forced them to stop, first. 
Bravura nods at the explanation, but without conviction.       He continues to scan the wreckage, still not satisfied... 
BRAVURA So he had the bomb with him inside, but he decided to walk outside to detonate it? 
HOMICIDE COP Are you asking if that seems like odd behavior from a guy who cut his partner's head off? 
The Young Cop from the storage building slips down the snowy bank and towards Bravura. His face is bruised and swollen. 
OUNG COP You wanted to see me? 
HOMICIDE COP Careful what you say to him, if you ever want to make detective... 
YOUNG COP (to Bravura, guarded) I already filled out a report. 
Bravura sees the Young Cop aware of the detective's presence. 
BRAVURA Show me where it happened, then. E XT. STORAGE FACILITY - MORNING 
Bravura and the Young Cop stand on the spot where he fought Max the night before - disturbed snow, the frayed cord... 
YOUNG COP He jumped out and wrapped that cord around me, and before I had a chance... 
I 
A 
Bravura nods at the bullshit, focus drawn to Max's locker. 
BRAVURA (pointing) He was coming out of here? 
When the Young Cop nods, Bravura starts to step inside. 
HOMICIDE COP Hey, real cops are working here... 
INT. MAX'S STORAGE LOCKER - MORNING 
MAX Michelle Payne was my wife. 
What color there was to begin with drains out of Colvin. 
COLVIN What-- 
MAX Before you say anything else, I want you to know who I am. 
COLVIN Please, wait... 
Max throws his elbow up, CRUSHING Colvin's nose. 
INT. AESIR BUILDING - LOBBY - DAY 
Bravura enters the soaring lobby of the Aesir building, stomping his shoes clean. He approaches the front desk. 
BRAVURA (flashing his badge) I need to talk to somebody about a woman who used to work here. 
COLVIN'S OFFICE 
Colvin's eyes flutter open.   His nose is smashed flat. 
He's being held upright by his belt, which loops around his neck and the headrest of his ergonomic chair. His wrists are bound to the armrests with strips of his tie. 
Max sits on the edge of the desk, heavy lamp in his hand. 
COLVIN (weakly, eyeing the lamp) Please don't hit me again. 
Max wraps the cord in his hand and jerks it free from the lamp, which he tosses with a CRASH. The cord, he keeps. M AX A week ago, I thought the universe had turned against me. Everything I loved was gone, and for some reason I'd been left here to suffer alone. 
Max strips back the insulation on the cord, exposing two frizzed bundles of wire: one brass, the other silver. Positive and negative. Colvin watches, apprehensive. 
T 
B 
MAX ut it wasn't the universe that took my family away from me. 
Max plugs in the cord. 
MAX It was you. 
He crouches by Colvin, wire in each hand, moving them closer. 
MAX Tell me about Valhalla. 
Colvin struggles to pull away from the approaching wires... 
COLVIN There is no-- 
Max brushes the bare wires against Colvin's throat. 
here's a bright SPARK.       Colvin SCREAMS. 
MAX Tell me. 
COLVIN There's no Project Valhalla anymore.   I shut it down years ago. 
A timid KNOCKING starts on Colvin's door, VOICES calling in. Max waits for more, eyes frozen, wires hanging ready. 
COLVIN (reluctant) It was a disaster. The drug was so addictive, the damage it did to the mind was so devastating that we lost our government funding. By the end, we couldn't even guarantee the safety of our scientists administering the experiment. Test subjects would follow them home and kill them for an extra dose. M AX Is that what happened to Michelle? 
COLVIN Nobody knows what happened to her. 
Max picks up a cup of coffee from the desk and pours it over Colvin's face as he struggles more frantically. 
C 
C 
Max brings the wires closer to Colvin's wet skin. 
OLVIN terrified) People thought Michelle might be a whistle-blower. That she wasn't loyal enough to Aesir, and she might go public about the program. 
Max's eyes thaw, hit by the first true words about her death. 
LOBBY 
Bravura sits in the lobby, impatiently skimming a magazine. On the far side of the enormous room, movement draws his eye: 
A line of black-clad SECURITY GUARDS swiftly moving in formation into a stairwell. SWAT precision, heavy hardware. 
Bravura springs up, approaching the Guards left at the door. 
GUARD Authorized personnel only. 
Max launches himself into the air, pistol CRACKING as he falls. Bullets RIP through the retreating Guards... 
Max hits the ground hard, scrambling through the exit... 
ANOTHER HALL 
...and around the corner. 
BRAVURA (shouting) Put your hands up! 
Max slides to a stop, startled to see Bravura aiming at him. While he doesn't exactly comply, Max does lower the barrel. 
BRAVURA (more human) You need to come in now, before anything else gets pinned on you. 
ax shakes his head.       HEAVY BOOT STEPS rumble closer... 
MAX She was trying to stop it. 
BRAVURA Stop what?     Tell me what's happening-- 
S 
A 
G 
Bullets STRAFE the wall just above Max's head. He dives to the ground, plaster dust and smoke pluming above him. W hile Max scrambles for cover, Bravura charges forward, waving his badge in the air above him. 
BRAVURA NYPD!   Hold your fire! 
uards flow into the hall, a black mass bristling FIRE. It takes a split second for Bravura to realize they aren't stopping. He slips, tumbling back as bullets RIP past him... 
BRAVURA (screaming) Hold your fire! 
Finally, the machine guns go quiet. Smoldering gunpowder clouds the hallway. Bravura and the Guards search... 
..but Max has disappeared into the smoke. 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Mona struggles up a narrow street, buffeted by the wind. Ahead, flashing blue and red lights electrify the snow. 
squad car idles towards her, searchlight flashing into dark shadows. Mona ducks her head away as the spotlight finds her at her building door. For a moment, she's in a whiteout. 
lowly, the cop car moves on. Mona starts to use her key... but the lock has already been forced open. 
INT. MONA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Mona steps inside, ready for ambush.    She turns the corner... 
Max sits on her couch, scraped and scorched from his escape. M AX (pointing to the TV) You need to see this. 
ON SCREEN: 
Over black, the Aesir corporate logo flashes up, quickly replaced by a simple block-letter title card: 
PROJECT VALHALLA: PROMOTIONAL SPOT #3' 
S 
S 
O 
A 
O 
ANNOUNCER (V.O.) From the beginning of time, great generals have all wrestled with one undeniable truth - morale wins battles. 
ver an up-tempo ROCK SOUNDTRACK, a slick montage of war imagery: tanks roaring over sand dunes, missiles ripping through palace walls, American troops firing machine guns... 
ANNOUNCER (V.O.) (CONT'D) Fear, fatigue, loss of focus...the future of combat medicine lies in the mind of the soldier. 
A cutting-edge lab, SCIENTISTS working complex machinery. 
NNOUNCER (V.O.) (CONT'D) Thanks to breakthroughs made by Aesir Pharmaceuticals, the military of tomorrow will be able of unlock the limitless potential inside every soldier. 
n screen, the shot cuts to the interview of a YOUNG SOLDIER in uniform. He smiles easily, confident, eyes alert but maybe a little distant. Something familiar about him... 
H         YOUNG SOLDIER (V.O.) ow has my experience in combat changed since being selected for Project Valhalla? (beat, smiling) I'm never scared, for starters. 
uperimposed under his face: `PVT. JACK LUPINO.' 
tartled, Mona moves closer to the screen. 
MAX No.   Just better than you. 
BB's smile seems to double.     He considers Max for a moment. 
BB For what it's worth, he didn't know Michelle was going to die. 
Max starts walking again, doesn't raise his eyes. The seed has been planted, though. BB plays with the silence. 
BB He thought they were going out there to scare her, destroy her research. 
M 
F 
T 
F 
FLASHBACK: MAX'S KITCHEN - DUSK 
Looking up from the mail, Max sees the smashed kitchen door. R ESUME - EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Max keeps walking, trying to fight off the memories. BB strolls along beside him, taking his time with the story. 
BB I'd arranged with the other guys to finish the job. 
LASHBACK: MAX'S HALLWAY - DUSK 
Max races into the hallway bathed in golden light. 
Between Max and the end of the hall, two JUNKIES are huddled against a door. Twisting the handle, SMACKING the wood. 
BB (V.O.) He locked them out of the bedroom, tried CPR...boy scout shit. 
he Junkies turn to Max, eyes black and glassy.   Sick smiles. 
RESUME - EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Max looks nauseous.    BB sees it, thrilled. 
BB (smiling) And as thanks, you nearly blew his head off while he crawled out the window. 
LASHBACK: MAX'S HALLWAY - DUSK 
Max throws his shoulder into the door, SNAPPING the hinges... 
BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 
A MAN slips out of the window, one leg still inside... 
ax OPENS FIRE at the retreating shape. 
RESUME - EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Max's gait begins to falter, lost in the memory he's played a thousand times, the images shifting to show something new... B B watches eagerly, waiting for what comes next... 
S 
M 
FLASHBACK: MAX'S BEDROOM - DUSK 
Max charges in, again firing on the man escaping... 
...but this time, we watch the glass behind the billowing curtains. The fabric ripples, revealing a reflection... 
Alex. 
BB (V.O.) That's funny, to me. 
A momentary flash of his profile, a mask of guilt and shame. 
RESUME - EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Max stops walking.   All of his will gone. 
BB steps closer, drinking in the pain in Max's eyes. 
BB You really didn't know? 
With a shrug, BB turns away from Max's fury and moves on... 
INTERSECTION - CONTINUOUS 
Above them, traffic signals strain under thick icicles. Intermittently, the lights go dark, the power faltering. 
Salle grabs Max's arm. Max looks down at Salle's feet, hard- soled shoes slipping. Salle anticipates his next thought... 
Abruptly, Max jerks his arm away. 
Not able to let go in time, Salle's feet fly out from under him. The big man crashes down hard on his side. 
Max ducks and stumbles forward... 
BB FIRES, missing. Max looks back. Beached on his side, Joe Salle draws his pistol, the next shot coming any moment... 
Max slips. Struggling to right himself, hands scraping over rough planks, another shot CRACKS inches from Max's legs... 
With nowhere else to go, Max turns to the water. Boots slipping, he lunges for the edge, careening over... 
RIVER - CONTINUOUS 
Max SPLASHES down into the dark water, body twisted in an awkward position, wind blasted from his lungs by the impact. SHOTS from the pier above CUT into the water around him... 
Max dives under as much as he can stand it in the frigid water, swimming farther from shore. Shots continuing to SPLASH around him, the current pulls him into deeper water... P IER 
BB and Salle FIRE with less conviction. In the water, the disturbance made by Max grows smaller as he's swept away. 
BB lowers his gun, motioning for Salle to do the same. 
BB It's fine, as cold as that water is... (beat) Just in case, though. Make sure. 
Salle frowns, shoots BB a look. 
JOE SALLE How? 
RIVER 
Max lifts his head. The wide expanse of the river stretches around him, surface broken by swirling pocks of falling snow. 
The current caries him farther from piers and buildings receding into snow, as black as the water they rise above. Turning, Max sees that the opposite shore is even farther. 
Slowly, the exhilaration of escape begins to change. Icy water bites his skin. Muscles beginning to tremble... 
Limbs heavy with saturated clothing, joints seized by cold, Max tries to swim against the current with little success. 
Max sinks lower, churning water lapping his face.    GASPING BREATHS becoming SPUTTERING COUGHS... 
CUT TO: 
INT. HALLWAY - TWILIGHT (VISION) 
Max moves down the hallway, the familiar golden light.    Boots A stepping quiet, past the bloody and motionless bodies. 
t the bedroom's door, Max pauses.   Unable to go through. 
Michelle's body faces away, bundle cradled in her arms. 
As Max stands watching, Michelle's body stirs... 
EXT. RIVER - NIGHT 
Max breaks the surface: COUGHING, GASPING, flailing his arms. It's hopeless; he immediately begins to sink again. Desperation, panic move his limbs, but for nothing. 
Max Payne slips under without so much as a ripple. 
INT. HALLWAY - TWILIGHT (VISION) 
Tentatively, Max crosses the threshold into the bedroom. 
Michelle's eyes open, aware that she's being watched from the doorway. She looks up at Max, a lazy smile forming. 
The bundle of blankets stirs. Michelle grins down at their infant daughter, offering her finger to the tiny pink hand. 
Max edges closer, overwhelmed by the sight. Michelle pats the bed beside them, inviting Max to sit. He doesn't move. 
M 
H 
C 
H 
C 
MICHELLE Are you home? 
For a long moment, Max drinks in the sight of his family... 
EXT. RIVER - PRE-DAWN 
...where a row of more GUARDS are handcuffed to a bench. 
U         RANKING OFFICER nder what authority are you interrogating these men? 
RAVURA An investigation into departmental corruption. They're material witnesses-- 
RANKING OFFICER Just between you and me, I wouldn't count on these men being any kind of witnesses at all. I served with a few of them, and remember what kind of officers they were. 
From the bench, Bravura sees the smirks from the Guards. 
BRAVURA What kind would that be? 
RANKING OFFICER Cops.   Real cops. 
At the far end of the hall, a group of serious-looking men in DARK SUITS file out of the elevator. Bravura cracks a smile. 
RANKING OFFICER o offense. 
The Suits get closer, revealing badges on their belts.   FBI. 
BRAVURA None taken. (to the lead agent) Agent Taliente, I'd like you to meet a real cop. 
The Ranking Officer and the Agent shake hands.    Icy. 
Standing in the doorway of an office down the hall, a DETECTIVE shrinks back to his desk and picks up the phone. 
DETECTIVE (on phone) Let me talk to BB. 
EXT. ASGARD BUILDING - NIGHT 
With dead streetlights, the hulking black shape of the Asgard building looms like a mountain at the end of the block. 
ax moves up the street, steam rising from his clothes as they dry from the heat of his skin. Sweat beads on his face. 
Max enters Asgard's courtyard, the Gothic facade rising high above. He passes through its security lights, shadow casting down onto the clean white snow like a projection screen... 
Invisible to the naked eye, more shadows of winged shapes dart and swoop in the air above Max's outline on the snow. 
INT. ASGARD BUILDING - BB'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
BB POUNDS the receiver down onto the phone, CRACKING the base. Joe Salle watches him angrily pulling on his coat. 
JOE SALLE What's going on downtown? 
BB Bravura called in the Feds. 
BB storms for the door, surprised to turn back and see that Salle hasn't followed him. The big man scowls, nervous. 
BB or God's sake, come on. Max is dead, they've got nothing else. 
ENTRY HALL 
BB and Salle storm down the steps into the main entry hall. 
B Get up to the armory, hide the-- 
Salle grabs BB by the arm. 
On the floor between them and the front door, two guards sprawl face-down in enormous pools of their own blood. 
JOE SALLE He's not dead. He's here. 
BB Bullshit.    There's no way-- 
At that moment, they both see movement in the shadows... 
Max steps forward into the light - soaked in blood up to his elbows, eyes black and animalistic. No longer himself. 
oe Salle reaches for his pistol. With freakish reflexes, Max raises one of the guard's machine guns and OPENS FIRE. 
BB and Salle fall back, diving into an ancient elevator car. Slugs ricocheting, BB and Salle struggle to shut the doors. 
From Max's POV: as the elevator doors slam shut, a glimpse of BB's face stretching and distorting into a demonic grin... 
ELEVATOR 
BB and Salle watch the floor number rise.       BB finds his cell. 
JOE SALLE Who are you calling? 
BB Her. 
By Salle's face, that's a thought scarier than Max. 
INT. AESIR BUILDING - PENTHOUSE OFFICE - NIGHT 
Crashing back into Max's perspective, a RUSHING WIND presses down from the black clouds above, the darkness spreading. Max's legs buckle, his machine gun scattering SHOTS... 
The room goes darker as it gets louder, light blotted out by WINGED CREATURES drifting down from above, circling closer... 
Max stumbles, buffeted by their POUNDING WINGS. CHOKING on sulfurous smoke, hair smoldering, skin starting to singe... 
ANOTHER HALLWAY 
A small group of Guards race forward, dodging the bodies of others Max met along the way. They hesitate, form ranks... 
GREAT HALL - CONTINUOUS 
...and the frightened Guards charge into the great room. 
It is silent. Smokeless. Just a hall. Blood streaks the walls, flows between the crumpled carcasses of more dead GUARDS. At the far end of the hall, something moves: 
Max. On his hands and knees, rivers of sweat flowing. Confused, the group of Guards approach Max. Weapons ready. 
MAX'S HALLUCINATION 
Crushed inside the DEAFENING blackness, Max lifts his eyes to see LEERING DEMONS gazing down, distorted versions of... 
GREAT HALL - CONTINUOUS 
...the four Guards, who look down on Max's trembling, sweat- logged body on the floor. He's MUTTERING, CHANTING... 
So easy it almost doesn't seem fair, a Guard aims his pistol. 
Suddenly, bullets RIP through the Guards from behind. No chance to respond, bodies torn open with a merciless BLAST of machine gun fire. They fall around Max, joining the rest. 
Gun smoking, Mona rushes up the hallway to Max. 
MAX'S HALLUCINATION 
The Demons fade away, their howling SCREAMS lingering behind. Awaiting the next horror, Max is shocked by something else: White light splits open the smoke, cutting the black in two. 
GREAT HALL 
Mona kneels down over Max, lifting up his head. Max's skin is pale, slick like melting wax. His eyes are empty. 
There's nothing gentle in her touch - she SLAMS Max's head back onto the cold marble, jerking him up again by his hair. 
MONA Max! 
Gradually, Max's black eyes start to find Mona's face. M AX'S HALLUCINATION 
The white light grows brighter, blasting away shadows and smoke. In its center, traces of Mona's face appear. 
GREAT HALL 
Max starts to sit up, gazing with confusion at the hallway. 
MONA You don't have much time. 
Max nods.    No idea if he understands, Mona helps him up. 
MONA I'll do what I can to slow them down, but you have to hurry. 
Max looks back at Mona, clearly having some idea of what that means for her. They look at each other for a long moment. 
MONA You're not done yet. 
EXT. ASGARD BUILDING - ROOF - DAWN 
Sickly light glows in the east. The snow has all but stopped. BB strides across the roof, hope in his eyes. 
BB (on phone) The weather's broken, your pilot is going to have no problem landing. 
INT. AESIR SKYSCRAPER - PENTHOUSE OFFICE - DAWN 
Nicole Horne sits at her desk, watching the storm recede. 
A red light flashes on her phone.     She ignores it. 
INT. ASGARD BUILDING - HALLWAY - DAWN 
Joe Salle kneels over a pile of C4 bricks, wiring a bomb. He tenses, hearing something in the hall behind him. Raising his hands and turning slowly, he finds Mona waiting. 
MONA Where's the detonator? 
Slowly, Salle holds it out for Mona.     She grabs the remote. 
JOE SALLE There's more like this all over. Even if the building doesn't collapse, this floor is gone. (beat) Careful with that thing, is what I'm saying. I'm sure you and I can work something out. 
Suddenly, BOOT STEPS ring up the hallway behind Mona. 
