M E E T   J O E   B L A C K 
Screenplay by Bo Goldman 
EXT. ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON, N.Y. - 4:00 AM 
A patch of water. PULL BACK TO REVEAL more water.  BACK FARTHER TO REVEAL an expanse of river, up the bank to massive lawn running up to a great, classic Hudson River manor house; the country estate of William Parrish. 
INT. PARRISH COUNTRY ESTATE - 4:00 AM 
MOVE THROUGH French doors that lead from a wide terrace into an expansive living room, DOWN wide corridors lined with Bierstadt and Cole paintings, the Hudson River School, mists and trees and small boats and distant humans. 
INT. PARRISH BEDROOM - 4:00 AM 
MOVE THROUGH the doorway to reveal a master bedroom furnish- ed with exquisite simplicity, revelatory of its sleeping occupant, WILLIAM PARRISH, 64, a warm but commanding face, a man of maturity yet who exudes a glow of enthusiasm. 
Although asleep, there is an uncommon restlessness to him. Parrish grips his upper arm as if in pain.  Now the severity of the pain wakes him, he squeezes his arm.  The wind comes up, through the wind a VOICE is heard distantly, or is it the wind itself: 
VOICE (V.O.) ... Yes. 
Parrish blinks, has he heard something, has he not, he is not sure, he releases his arm, his grimace of pain fades, the discomfort seems momentarily to have subsided. 
He rises now, crosses to the bathroom.  As he pees, a breeze outside the window, the wind again, but then the Voice comes up: 
VOICE (V.O.) Yes... 
It is unmistakably a Voice, it is not the wind, Parrish has heard something, he looks around, but no one is there.  He can't finish peeing, turns back to his bedroom.  All beweild- ered, Parrish looks around once more, climbs back into bed, trying to trace the source of what he has heard or hasn't heard; he is not sure. 
He pulls the covers up now, not a SOUND, tries to close his eyes. 
VOICE (V.O.) Yes. 
Parrish sits up again, frightened, but still there is no one there, he seems fraught with indecision, should he get up, should he not, what is happening?  He looks out: absolute stillness and silence, CRICKETS chirp down by the river, a light FLICKERS from a shadboat, Parrish closes his eyes but then they flutter open, he glances up at the ceiling and finally, exhausted, falls back asleep. 
EXT. REAR TERRACE, PARRISH COUNTRY ESTATE - NEXT MORNING 
The great lawn infested with workmen, planting stakes, un- rolling a huge canvas tent, gardeners fashioning topiary and adding landscaping of their own, crews setting up platforms, speakers, lights.  Ubiquitous is ALLISON, 35, Parrish's older daughter, foremen competing for her attention and she relishing every moment. 
A Painter approaches. 
PAINTER The big tent, Miss Allison -- 
ALLISON Paint is rust and moss green. Medieval colors -- Daddy's like an old knight. 
A Florist stops her. 
FLORIST The head table --? 
ALLISON What about it? 
FLORIST The flowers, ma'am--? 
ALLISON Freesia, freesia, everywhere.  Daddy loves freesia -- and you, over there, lights.  Not too bright.  I'm looking for a saffron glow -- sort of tea- dance twenties. 
EXT. GREAT HALL, COUNTRY ESTATE - MORNING 
Parrish, groomed for the day, trots down the stairs, observ- ing the activity outside through the windows.  He checks his watch, strides down the hall, encounters MAY, 50, a family retainer who is opening the doors to the terrace as Parrish passes. 
PARRISH What do you think of all this, May? 
MAY It's going to be beautiful.  And Miss Allison says the President may come. 
PARRISH Oh, the President's got better things to do than come to my birthday party. 
MAY (smiling) What? 
Parrish grins, continues on, is intercepted by Allison who, on catching sight of him, bounces in from the terrace. 
ALLISON Daddy! 
PARRISH Hi, Allison -- 
ALLISON Have you got a minute? 
PARRISH Not much more.  Big day in the big city.  What's on your mind? 
ALLISON Fireworks.  Update -- we're con- structing the number '65' on the barge, archers from the State College at New Paltz will shoot flaming arrows at it, when it catches fire it will give us the effect of a Viking funeral with none of the morbidity... The Hudson River Authority says, for you, they'll make a special dispensation - of course there'll be an overtime bill for the Poughkeepsie Fire Dept... 
PARRISH Allison, I trust you.  This is your thing. 
ALLISON But it's your birthday. 
Parrish smiles complaisantly, they continue on into a break- fast room where SUSAN, 30, Parrish's younger daughter, is grazing at a table laden with cereals and fruits and coffee. 
SUSAN Good morning, Dad. 
PARRISH Hi, honey. 
ALLISON (to Susan) I'm Allison, you're 'honey'. 
SUSAN (smiling) Drew called from the AStar, they're still two minutes away. 
PARRISH Drew's aboard? 
SUSAN He wanted to ride back down with you. Now sit and relax, get some- thing in that flat tummy of yours -- 
But Parrish only pours coffee. 
SUSAN (cont'd) (to Allison) You coming? 
ALLISON You've got patients waiting, I've got three hysterical chefs, one loves truffles, the other hates truffles, the third one doesn't know what truffles are.  I'd better drive down. 
Parrish gazes at the going-on outside which are increasing in intensity. 
PARRISH (unconsciously) I hate parties -- 
ALLISON Calm down, Daddy, you'll see, you're going to love it. 
PARRISH Isn't it enough to be on this earth sixty-five years without having to be reminded of it. 
ALLISON No. 
Allison goes, Susan observes Parrish fidgeting. 
SUSAN ...There's a start for a meeting. 
PARRISH I know it's none of my business -- 
Susan doesn't answer for a moment, then impulsively kisses her father on the cheek. 
SUSAN No, it's none of your business. 
Another moment. 
PARRISH Do you love Drew? 
SUSAN You mean like you loved Mom? 
PARRISH Forget about me and Mom -- are you going to marry him? 
SUSAN Probably. 
A moment. 
PARRISH (smiles) Don't get carried away. 
SUSAN Uh oh -- 
PARRISH Susan, you're a hell of a woman. You've got a great career, you're beautiful -- 
SUSAN And I'm your daughter and no man will ever be good enough for me. 
PARRISH Well, I wasn't going to say that -- 
SUSAN What were you going to say? 
PARRISH Listen, I'm crazy about the guy -- He's smart, he's aggressive, he could carry Parrish Communications into the 21st century and me along with it. 
SUSAN So what's wrong with that? 
PARRISH That's for me.  I'm talking about you.  It's not so much what you say about Drew, it's what you don't say. 
SUSAN You're not listening -- 
PARRISH Oh yes, I am.  Not an ounce of excitement, not a whisper of a thrill, this relationship has all the passion of a pair of titmice. 
SUSAN Don't get dirty, Dad -- 
PARRISH Well, it worries me.  I want you to get swept away.  I want you to levitate.  I want you to sing with rapture and dance like a dervish. 
SUSAN That's all? 
PARRISH Be deliriously happy.  Or at least leave yourself open to be. 
SUSAN 'Be deliriously happy'.  I'm going to do my upmost -- 
He smiles. 
PARRISH I know it's a cornball thing but love is passion, obsession, someone you can't live without.  If you don't start with that, what are you going to end up with?  I say fall head over heels.  Find someone you can love like crazy and who'll love you the same way back.  And how do you find him?  Forget your head and listen to your heart.  I'm not hearing any heart. (a moment) Run the risk, if you get hurt, you'll come back.  Because, the truth is there is no sense living your life without this.  To make the journey and not fall deeply in love -- well, you haven't lived a life at all. You have to try.  Because if you haven't tried, you haven't lived. 
SUSAN Bravo. 
PARRISH Aw, you're tough. 
SUSAN I'm sorry.  But give it to me again. The short version. 
PARRISH Stay open.  Who knows?  Lightning could strike. 
Silence. 
PARRISH (cont'd) Forgive the lecture -- 
SUSAN I won't.  And when I tell Drew about it, he won't either. 
PARRISH You won't tell him, and even if you did, he'd clock it and punch it into his laptop in order to pull out some key phrases when he gives the Commencement Speech at Wharton. 
SUSAN You're terrible. 
PARRISH I know.  But I'm the only father you've got. 
She kisses him on the cheek. 
SUSAN Thank God. 
PARRISH He doesn't care.  But thanks anyway. 
EXT. 34TH STREET HELIPAD, NEW YORK CITY - DAY 
The AStar lands, an attendant, waiting with a luggage cart, rushes to open the door and unload the bags.  The passengers, Parrish paired with Quince, Drew with Susan, file off the rooftop through a door which opens into an elevator. 
INT. ELEVATOR, NEW YORK CITY - DAY 
Parrish, Susan, Drew and Quince face forward as they ride downwards. 
QUINCE Hey, this is it, the hour approach- es, I'm getting all excited.  So what do you think, is it -- (indicates Drew and Parrish) -- just the 'Executive Committee' or could you guys use me? 
DREW Quince, m'man, thanks for the offer, but it's all set for just me and Bill. More people might -- 
QUINCE I know.  Gum up the works. 
Parrish is about to make some reassuring comment to Quince when the Voice suddenly intrudes: 
VOICE (V.O.) '...I know, it's none of my business.' 
PARRISH What? 
DREW I was saying to Quince we won't need -- 
PARRISH Did you just hear something? 
DREW Why yes, Bill, I was saying to Quince -- 
PARRISH No no, not you. 
SUSAN Daddy, what's the matter? 
PARRISH Nothing.  I'm sorry. 
SUSAN No, it was so right it scares me. 
YOUNG MAN I've been thinking... I don't want you to be my doctor.  Because I don't want you to examine me. 
SUSAN Why? 
YOUNG MAN Because I like you so much. (a moment) You have coffee here every morning, don't you?  If I came by, could you give me the name of a doctor? 
Another moment. 
SUSAN Sure, I'll give you the name of a doctor. (a moment) ...And I don't want to examine you. 
YOUNG MAN Why not? 
SUSAN Because I like you so much.  Now I've got to go. 
She hurries away down the sidewalk, the Young Man watching her.  Now he turns and starts off in the opposite direction. 
ANOTHER ANGLE - SUSAN 
She looks back at the Young Man, then turns and walks on. 
ANOTHER ANGLE - THE YOUNG MAN 
He looks back at Susan as the distance between them widens, now he turns and walks on. 
ON SUSAN 
She looks around once more but the Young Man is still headed in the opposite direction, his back to her.  She turns the corner and continues on. 
ON THE YOUNG MAN 
Approaching the corner, he looks back for Susan yet again, but she is gone, still turned he steps off into the street and a hospital supplies truck, speeding down the curb lane, HITS HIM BROADSIDE, a horrific impact, the THUD echoes as his body arcs through the air. 
Another sickening THUD as it lands, the Young Man lies crumpled, still. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SALON, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE, NEW YORK CITY - NIGHT 
A beautiful space adjacent to the dining room, it has a glass roof which offers a superb view of the Manhattan sky- line.  The hour is before dinner: gathered on one side of the room are Allison and Parrish, on the other side Drew and Quince.  COYLE, a butler, and LUISA, the housekeeper, pass hors d'oeuvres and drinks. 
ALLISON ...Music, I know how you love music, Daddy, and I want to have music that pleases you -- and of course doesn't put a thousand other people to sleep -- I've agonized over this and finally settled on Sidney Brown, twenty-four men, very eclectic, plus I'm feathering in a Latin sextet on their breaks - Tito Puente, Trini Lopez-zy, I forget their names -- 
Parrish has tuned Allison out, he tried to stay with it, but his mind has wandered, the event of the day too much with him. 
ALLISON (cont'd) You haven't heard a word, have you? I keep talking and all you do is nod like Mr. Himmelfass in The Nutcracker. 
Parrish still doesn't answer. 
ALLISON (cont'd) You don't care, do you? 
PARRISH What, honey? 
ALLISON I lay awake nights in a cold sweat, I want this party to be like some- thing Mom would have made for you, I want it to be perfect -- 
PARRISH (attentive now) I know you do, darling. 
ALLISON And you could care less -- 
PARRISH Oh, you couldn't be more wrong, sweetheart.  I can' tell you how much I appreciate it and how I'm looking forward to it. 
ALLISON Good.  Songs.  What songs should Sidney -- Pancho and his six men we can forget about -- what songs do you think he should play? 
A stab of pain, Parrish discreetly grabs his upper arm but manages to keep his attention on Allison. 
PARRISH Tell it to me again. 
Suddenly, the Voice cuts in: 
VOICE (V.O.) ...Yes. 
Parrish's head snaps, startled by the SOUND. 
VOICE (V.O., cont'd) (to Parrish) Did you miss me? 
Parrish reacts once more, aware again he is the only one who has heard the Voice, as an oblivious Allison continues: 
ALLISON (to Parrish) Never mind.  Leave it to me. 
Parrish ignores her, his attention has been taken by the Voice.  His eyelids flutter, nonplused, edgy and fearful. 
LUISA Mr. Parrish, dinner is served. 
ALLISON (to Quince and Drew, across the room) Chow-time, you guys. 
Parrish is confounded.  Blindly and disconcerted, he follows Allison and Drew and Quince. 
INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
As a disturbed Parrish approaches the table, he hears the Voice once more: 
VOICE (V.O.) What are you looking so provoked about?  'Did you miss me?'  It's a normal question.  I missed you. But what do I get back?  'Not an ounce of excitement, not a whisper of a thrill --' 
Parrish sits. 
VOICE (V.O., cont'd) '-- This relationship has all the passion of a pair of titmice'. 
Parrish is on the edge of his seat, struggling to hide his panic. 
VOICE (V.O., cont'd) I'm waiting outside. 
The conversation swirls on around Parrish, he is deaf to it: 
ALLISON (to Drew) Did you speak to the Governor? 
DREW He's coming. 
ALLISON His wife? 
DREW Unfortunately.  I sat between them at the Bronx Zoo benefit -- it was better than Seconal. 
VOICE (V.O.) I'm waiting outside.  Won't someone come to the door? 
DREW You and Bill old friends? 
Parrish jumps in: 
PARRISH No -- 
DREW (to Joe) I get the feeling you've done some business before. 
JOE We have an arrangement now. 
DREW What side of the industry did you say you were on? 
JOE I didn't say. 
DREW (to Parrish) Joe sounds like a ringer, Bill.  I have the feeling you guys got the broad strokes already.  Need any help with the details? 
Parrish falls silent again, looking for an answer. 
DREW (cont'd) I'm sorry -- business at dinner... (to Joe) Forgive me for being so rude. 
JOE Sure. 
The doors to the dining room open, Susan appears. 
SUSAN Hi, everybody.  Sorry to be late - had to have dinner with my depart- ment chief -- 
ALLISON You ate? 
SUSAN ...I'm here, aren't I?  Wouldn't miss a loose end meeting.  What's on the table for discussion?  Party favors, flowers -- hi Dad, hi Drew -- 
She kisses Drew in some light, humorous way they have ob- viously done before, their heads bobbing like plastic water toys and their lips meeting mid-air. 
At the kiss's conclusion Susan suddenly notices Joe is present and has been watching.  She is shocked, embarrassed, pleased, conflicted, an instant and wide spectrum of emotions. 
SUSAN (cont'd) What are you doing here? 
Silence. 
PARRISH (stunned) You know each other? 
SUSAN (lightly) We've met. 
PARRISH What?! 
SUSAN -- This morning.  The Corinth Coffee Shop.  He was looking for a doctor. 
QUINCE Well, I guess he's found one. 
DREW Joe, you do get around. 
Joe is happily confounded by all the interaction. 
SUSAN That's your name? 
ALLISON And isn't it a lovely one?  So sturdy, so straight -- 
Joe has heard Susan's question but, as he studies her, doesn't answer. 
DREW Incidentally, Joe, where're you staying? 
JOE Here... 
DREW 'Here'? 
SUSAN In this house? 
QUINCE Great! 
Parrish pushes his plate away. 
PARRISH Uh - will that hold you, Joe? 
SUSAN Incidentally, 'Joe' what? 
JOE Black. 
QUINCE Hey, this is fun. 
SUSAN So, what are you doing here? 
Parrish tenses, but Joe doesn't answer. 
SUSAN (cont'd) Cat got your tongue?  You weren't so silent this morning. 
Drew reacts to this allusion of intimacy. 
ALLISON Now, I'm getting interested.  I want to know more --- 
PARRISH (to Joe) We've got some things to discuss. 
Parrish stands, motions for Joe to rise. 
DREW (to Joe) -- Did I hear 'business'? 
SUSAN What 'business'? 
QUINCE Don't bother asking, we already tried. 
JOE It's so very nice to see you again. 
SUSAN Funny, I don't get that feeling. Maybe it's because you found out I'm Bill Parrish's daughter. 
PARRISH Cut it out, Susan. (to Joe) You and I've got to talk.  Big day tomorrow, everybody.  Joe, let's go. 
Joe rises, follows Parrish to the door, stops: 
JOE (to Susan) Susan. (to Allison) Allison. (to Quince) Quince. (to Drew) Drew. (to Parrish) Bill... (to the group) Thank you. 
He makes an awkward little bow, then heads for the nearest door. 
PARRISH Joe, that's the kitchen. 
JOE Thank you. 
She stops. 
PARRISH (cont'd) Mr. Black's luggage was misplaced by the airlines.  Would you mind get- ting a few things together for him? A couple of suits, some shirts, ties, underwear, shoes.  Have Coyle take his measurements off what he is wearing tonight. 
LUISA Certainly, sir. 
Luisa nods, and heads back downstairs.  Parrish enters his den, takes a seat in his chair, stares into the middle distance, ruminates. 
INT. GUEST ROOM, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT 
Joe has been examining his room, full of curiosity and wonderment at the oddest things, the handle on a casement window, the hem and weight of the fabric of a drape, hinges on the bedroom door.  In the process he opens this door, steps out into the hallway. 
INT. HALLWAY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT 
Joe wanders down the hallway past the occasional Dufy or Miro, a Venetian tapestry cheek-by-jowl with a miniature Ming vae, and even a Bonsai garden with a trickling vein of water. 
INT. KITCHEN HALLWAY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT 
In the "back" of the house now, utilitarian paint and decor, the SOUND of laughter and a glare of light.  Joe enters. 
INT. KITCHEN, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT 
The staff is at ease, some smoking, remains of food around. Coyle, the butler, has his back to Joe and does not see him for a moment.  In front of Coyle, an open jar of peanut but- ter which he is spreading in generous hunks of Wonder Bread. Joe is fascinated by the process.  Coyle suddenly hears the silence, looks up and see Joe, standing up embarrassedly. 
COYLE Yes, sir? 
JOE Hello.  I'm Joe Black.  Nice to meet you. 
COYLE Yes sir, Mr. Black, a pleasure. 
The staff all mumble expansive "Good evening, sir"s to Joe. He motions to them to sit, they do but Coyle does not.  Coyle shifts from foot-to-foot, the staff is not used to having Parrish family or guests in this part of the house. 
JOE (to Coyle) What are you eating. 
COYLE You mean this, sir? 
Coyle regards his peanut butter sheepishly. 
COYLE (cont'd) Laura Scudder's Peanut Butter. 
JOE (carefully) 'Laura Scudder's Peanut Butter'. (a moment) You like it? 
COYLE I would say, sir, it is right up there with Jif and Skippy.  But miles ahead of Peter Pan. (another moment) Like a taste? 
Joe nods, Coyle fashions a spoonful, offers it to Joe.  Joe swallows it.  But he has not yet found a comfortable way of masticating, his mouth and tongue go every which way, the staff observes him, fascinated. 
COYLE (cont'd) You're a peanut butter man now, eh, sir? 
JOE Yes, I am.  I thoroughly enjoyed this - uh - peanut butter. (to the staff) And I thoroughly enjoyed meeting you. 
Joe raises the spoonful of peanut butter in a kind of toast to the staff. 
JOE (cont'd) I'll be moseying on. 
He heads out, with the spoonful of peanut butter, to cheer- ful "Goodnight, Mr. Black"'s, his tongue again licking the edges of the spoon. 
INT. SWIMMING POOL, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - DAY 
A spectacular indoor Olympic pool, window commanding views of the skyline. 
Susan is swimming laps, looking very professional in a black Speedo suit, Joe wanders in, still licking his peanut butter. He observes her, but she is unaware of him, however now, as she makes a barrel turn, his shadow falls over a reflection from a window, she aborts her lap, looks up to see who it is. 
SUSAN What are you doing here? 
JOE I'm lost. 
SUSAN -- Can't seem to escape you today. 
JOE I'm sorry. 
Susan climbs out of the pool, gets halfway up the ladder, points to a stack of towels. 
SUSAN Hand me one of those, will you? 
Joe turns to the towels, but one hand is occupied with the spoonful of peanut butter, he shifts it to the other hand, can't manage the huge Turkish towel one-handed, now implants the spoon in his mouth, lifts the towel with both hands and presents it to Susan. 
SUSAN (cont'd) You must have something really big going on with my father -- 
JOE 'Big'? 
SUSAN You appear at his side out-of-the- blue, stay at his house, eat dinner with his family, it's practically a first.  You're in the red-hot center of big business and I thought you were a regular Joe. 
JOE I am Joe. 
SUSAN Not the one I met this morning, hit- ting on me in as nice a way as I've been hit on in a long time, but the moment you find out I'm my Dad's daughter, you act like a stranger. 
JOE That is not my intention. 
Joe continues to nibble at his peanut butter. 
SUSAN What are your intentions?  To make little dreams in coffee shops, turn a woman's head, and I don't mind admitting it was turned, I liked it, but ten hours later I feel like a fool.  I don't get it.  You, my father, here in this house, the cof- fee shop, it's making me upset, and I don't like being upset.  Who are you anyway?  And what are you eating? 
JOE (mumbles) Peanut butter. 
He finishes the spoonful. 
JOE (cont'd) But it's gone now. 
He shifts the spoon from hand to hand, starts to stick it in his pocket, realizes this is inappropriate.  Susan holds her hand out to him, he places the spoon in it and she sets the spoon on the table with the towels.  She watches, fascinat- ed, as Joe licks his gums, enjoying every last bit of his spoonful. 
SUSAN You act like you never had peanut butter before -- 
JOE I haven't. 
SUSAN -- What kind of childhood did you have? 
JOE Do you love Drew? 
SUSAN Come again? 
JOE When you put your mouth to his, Susan, it seems a frequent thing. 
SUSAN Drew is none of your damn business. Nor is where I put my mouth. 
Joe immediately extends his hand toward Parrish, but Parrish freezes on seeing the hand, stares at it, now takes it.  Joe pumps Parrish's hand vigorously, then breaks into a broad smile. 
EXT. 5TH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY - DAY 
Parrish and Joe striding downtown, Joe's jacket fits per- fectly, he blends right in and he clearly enjoys being part of the smart Fifth Avenue crowd on the way to work.  Parrish senses Joe's pleasure, his slight preening, his eyes check- ing out the good-looking women headed for the offices at the top of corporate high-rises. 
PARRISH You know, I got to thinking last night -- with you here, and seem- ingly occupied, how's your work going - uh - elsewhere? 
A flicker from Joe.  He has heard what Parrish has said, his eyes busy with the grift and the sparkle of the Avenue, but he is concentrating on Parrish's words. 
JOE When you were shaving this morning, you weren't just shaving, right? 
PARRISH What do you mean? 
JOE You were hatching ideas, making plans, arriving at decisions, right? 
PARRISH I guess so. 
JOE So you understand the concept then. When you're busy here, your work, what your task is, is being executed elsewhere. 
PARRISH Of course. 
JOE So you've grasped the idea.  Con- gratulations.  Now multiply it by infinity and take it to the depth of forever, and you still will have barely a glimpse of what I am talking about. 
Parrish falls silent, chewing over Joe's admonition. 
PARRISH Joe --? 
JOE Yes, Bill. 
PARRISH How about giving a guy a break? 
JOE Make an exception? 
PARRISH There's one to every rule. 
JOE Not this. 
They stride on, cutting through the crowd, Joe all at home in his new surrounding, but Parrish just the opposite, un- characteristically uncomfortable, phrases forming on his lips but unspoken, then suddenly he blurts out: 
PARRISH -- I don't deserve this.  I'm still young, this is not my time -- 
JOE That's what everybody says. 
PARRISH I'm not everybody. 
JOE That's what everybody says. 
Parrish is trying to control himself, glances at Joe. 
PARRISH I want to live. 
JOE I understand. 
A moment. 
JOE (cont'd) But you can't. 
A sudden silence between them.  Parrish's shoulders appear to have stopped slightly, the courage he displayed at rais- ing these issues has vanished. 
PARRISH What's it like? 
JOE What do you mean? 
PARRISH What's it like where I'm going? 
JOE Can you keep a secret? 
PARRISH Yes. 
JOE So can I. 
They turn into Parrish's office building. 
INT. LOBBY, PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS - DAY 
As Parrish and Joe enter, Parrish is hailed by JAIME, the Elevator Starter. 
JAIME Good morning, Mr. Parrish. 
PARRISH Good morning, Jaime. 
JAIME Knight's Reward in the 4th at Calder -- 
A bemused Parrish walks on, Joe beside him, Jaime pursuing them. 
JAIME (cont'd) -- A closer in today with cheap speed.  The colt will come from the clouds and boom!  Fifty-eight dollar horse.  I get you down, Mr. Parrish, just say the word. 
PARRISH (smiles) I'm sorry, not today, Jaime. 
Parrish and Joe arrive at the bank of elevators.  Jaime, back at his post, hits a button. 
PARRISH (cont'd) (to Joe) You know, everyday I've walked into this building, Jaime gives me a horse. (a moment) I wonder if any of them won. 
The elevator materializes, Parrish and Joe step on. 
INT. PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS, OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN - DAY 
Parrish and Joe emerge from the executive elevator, Jennifer is waiting as usual with her pad, "Good morning"s, etc.  As Parrish strides down the hall, Joe right beside him, he passes instructions back to Jennifer who, scribbling, hurries along behind them. 
PARRISH -- And call my family, I'd like them to come over for dinner tonight. 
JENIFER Didn't the family get together last night --? 
PARRISH (remonstrating, gently) Jennifer. 
JENIFER Of course, Mr. Parrish.  Right away. 
Jennifer wheels and heads right back to the office as Parrish arrives at the door to the Board Room. 
PARRISH (to Joe) Perhaps you would like to wait in my office --? 
JOE No. 
DREW (cont'd) Felicia? 
FELICIA (O.S.) Yes, sir? 
DREW Get me a Field Background check on Joe Black.  Litigations. Bankrupt- cies.  Credit ratings.  The works. Got it? 
Drew hangs up. 
INT. PARRISH'S OFFICE - DAY 
Parrish enters, Joe right on his heels.  They booth stop, Parrish regards him. 
PARRISH -- What's the deal here?  Are you going to be breathing down my neck right 'til the very end? 
JOE I don't understand. 
Parrish tries to gather himself. 
PARRISH ...I'd like to be alone for a while. 
JOE Are you sad, Bill? 
PARRISH Yes, I am.  There's a research lib- rary on the fourth floor.  Why don't you go down and read some magazines? 
JOE You're not thinking of going some- where, are you, Bill? 
PARRISH Joe, could I ask you to take a walk? Buy a tie or something.  I know I'll be seeing you. 
JOE Of course. 
But Joe doesn't move. 
PARRISH (prompting) Now I'd like to be alone. 
JOE Oh.  Okay. 
Parrish reaches into his pocket and hands Joe some cash. 
PARRISH Here -- this will hold you for a while. 
Joe stares at the money as Parrish shows him the door. 
PARRISH (cont'd) You know about money, don't you? 
JOE It can't buy happiness? 
Parrish opens the door. 
PARRISH Jennifer, give Mr. Black a map of the city. 
JOE No thank you, Bill.  I can manage. 
Joe goes. 
INT. EMERGENCY ROOM AREA, NEW YORK HOSPITAL - DAY 
Susan is busy giving instructions to a Nurse, a patient on an examining table beside them.  As she finishes, she suddenly notices Joe down the corridor in the reception area.  She is startled for the moment, quickly makes a last notation, hands a chart to the Nurse and heads down the corridor. 
SUSAN Joe -- 
JOE How nice you look.  Is that your uniform? 
Susan regards him. 
SUSAN Why did you come here? 
Joe doesn't have an answer. 
SUSAN (cont'd) Are you ill? 
JOE Oh goodness, no. 
SUSAN Then why are you here, Joe? 
JOE I came to see you. 
SUSAN I don't have any time to see you now.  I'm doing grand rounds and then I'm examining back-to-back patients until dinner and then -- 
JOE Very well, I'll watch. 
SUSAN Watch me do what? 
JOE Whatever you do. 
SUSAN That's impossible.  I'm a doctor, I'm -- 
JOE And I'll be a visitor. 
SUSAN Patients have visitors, not doctors. 
JOE I don't mind -- 
Visible now behind them are a Caribbean woman in her mid- thirties, TEENA, an arm around her mother, EASTER, who is holding her stomach and rocking back and forth in her seat, in great pain. 
TEENA (urgently) Miss?  Miss Doctor? 
SUSAN (gently) Just a minute, please. 
TEENA Please.  My momma's sicker'n he is. 
Easter looks up and sees Joe.  She abruptly becomes still, eyes wide, as if sudden recognition. 
EASTER Obeah. 
TEENA No, Momma. 
But Easter just stares at Joe, fearful. 
EASTER Obeah mon.  I gonna die. 
TEENA Momma, stop it. Is just a man. 
Joe looks at Easter, curiously. 
JOE (sincerely) Not now. 
Susan smiles gently. 
JOE (cont'd) Don't you want me to come again...? 
A moment. 
SUSAN I have to go, I'm sorry to say -- 
JOE Be sorry for nothing. 
Another moment. 
SUSAN Yes.  Well...thank you, Joe. 
Susan turns to go, hesitates. 
JOE Good-bye, Susan. 
Susan waves softly to him, heads down the hall, glances back once to see Joe has not moved, is watching her depart. 
INT. PARRISH'S OFFICE - AFTERNOON 
Jennifer shows Joe in, Parrish is deep in thought, beside him a meal laid out beautifully on his desk with linen and silver, but untouched. 
Joe is more abstracted than usual, he is starting at Parrish's food. 
JOE Are you going to eat your lunch 
PARRISH It's all yours. 
Joe starts eating, Parrish watches him, somewhat fascinated, Joe's chewing has improved. 
PARRISH (cont'd) Good? 
JOE Excellent.  What is it? 
PARRISH Cold lamb sandwich with cilantro.  A little Coleman's mustard. 
Joe takes another big bite. 
JOE Truly - uh - splendid. 
PARRISH Glad you like it.  My wife turned me onto cold lamb sandwiches.  Joan -- that was my wife -- 
JOE (familiarly) Uh-huh. 
PARRISH Cold lamb sandwiches -- not as chewy as roast beef, not as boring as chicken.  She knew stuff like that. 
Silence, Parrish getting lost in his memories. 
PARRISH (cont'd) -- Everything reminds me of her -- there isn't a day that goes by that I don't think about her -- One day she was here.  The next day she was gone.  What are you going to do? -- I guess you've heard all this a trillion times before. 
JOE And more. 
PARRISH Why didn't you stop me? 
JOE Well...I don't know. 
Silence. 
JOE (cont'd) How was it the first time you met her? 
PARRISH I thought you'd heard a trillion times -- 
JOE This part I'm interested in. 
A moment. 
PARRISH She had on this little blue suit -- with a little white collar that had little red piping on it -- 
Joe is riveted on Parrish ow, Parrish aware of him, has paused. 
PARRISH (cont'd) You could have put her under glass and I would have just stood and looked at her.  But when she spoke -- I loved the sound of her voice and her laugh -- (a moment) -- I couldn't get enough of her -- and gradually -- or maybe it wasn't gradually -- I realized I couldn't live without her. 
A KNOCK, the door opens and Drew enters, looks at Parrish, then at Joe, stands poised in the doorway. 
DREW May I interrupting? 
JOE Yes. 
PARRISH No. 
DREW (to joe) 'Just kidding'? 
PARRISH Sit down, Drew. 
DREW Before I do -- (glances at Joe) I was hoping we might be alone, Bill. 
PARRISH Joe and I have no secrets from each other. 
DREW (to Joe) How nice for you both. 
Drew takes a moment, then plunges in. 
DREW (cont'd) Bill, pardon my candor, but I was confounded by your decision this morning. 
PARRISH Why? 
DREW I was hired, you told me, to help bring Parrish Communications into the 21st Century.  This merger is the vehicle -- 
Joe interrupts: 
JOE Perhaps a merger is a way to bring Bill's company into the 21st cen- tury.  And perhaps it isn't.  And perhaps cheating on your French Philosophers exam at The Groton School was an expedient way to get your diploma, and perhaps it wasn't. Be that as it may, Drew, a question can often be argued both ways. 
Drew is stunned. 
PARRISH Joe, cut it out.  And you too, Drew. 
DREW (to Parrish) I thought this was practically a done deal -- 
PARRISH Well now it's undone, okay?  Forget Bontecou!  Scrub him!  I'm tired of his fancy name and his fancy offer. I'm not going for it. 
DREW 'It's up to Joe', huh? 
QUINCE Yeah, that's what he said. 
DREW Well, that's very interesting. 
Drew gazes intently over at Joe who is crossing to Susan, for the moment by herself near the piano. 
QUINCE I thought so, too.  Joe's a neat guy. 
DREW Yeah.  Neat. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Joe approaches Susan. 
JOE I wanted to apologize, Susan -- 
SUSAN I thought you said 'Be sorry for nothing'. 
JOE Well, now I am sorry.  For intruding on you this afternoon. 
SUSAN It wasn't an intrusion.  And if it was, it turned out to be welcome. 
JOE I appreciate you -- 
SUSAN Excuse me? 
JOE I mean I appreciate that. 
SUSAN And I appreciate you, too. 
A moment between them. 
JOE (delighted) You do?  Well, thank you very much. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Drew crosses over to Parrish. 
PARRISH I was a little abrupt with you this afternoon, Drew.  Forgive me.  I want you to know I value your advice. 
DREW As much as Joe's? 
Parrish doesn't answer. 
DREW (cont'd) Who is this man?  He's giving ubiquitous a bad name. 
A moment. 
PARRISH You're competitive soul, Drew. That's what makes you a great addi- tion to the money.  Joe is just... around. 
DREW For how long?  And why? 
PARRISH Please.  Don't worry about him.  And above all, don't antagonize him. 
Drew glances over at Joe. 
DREW Boss's orders, huh?  I'm great at following them.  And I think I'll start right now. 
Allison calls out from the other side of the room: 
ALLISON Dinner's ready, everybody! 
A BUZZ as Coyle opens the doors to the dining room and the family files in, Drew lingering behind with Joe. 
DREW I have a confession to make to you, Joe. 
Joe just smiles in response. 
DREW (cont'd) Do you want to hear it? 
JOE (pleasantly) No. 
DREW Well, I'm going to tell you anyway. I did cheat on that exam at Groton. But so did twenty-six other guys, and nobody ever mentioned it until today.  And I'm expecting you won't mention it again.  I don't know who you are and where you're getting your information, but I'm willing to pretend I did not hear it, and let bygones be bygones.  But can I tell you something else, it'd be nice to see the big guy without you next to him.  What are you, his shadow?  Do you hold his dick for him when he goes to take a leak?  You know some- times somebody would like a few min- utes alone with W.P.  That means without you.  Okay, pal?  Let's eat. 
INT. DINING ROOM, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT 
Everyone eating silently but looks are exchanged, glances averted, Allison notices Susan and Joe looking at each other, Drew observes Parrish watching Joe, Quince, on the other hand, just eats. 
Breaking the silence, Parrish chinks his glass, stands. 
PARRISH -- I - uh - want to thank you all for coming - uh - my family -- 
Everyone at the table is all attention. 
PARRISH (cont'd) -- Allison and Quince, Susan -- and the other members -- 
He glances at Joe, stops. 
PARRISH (cont'd) -- I'm so happy when we can get together -- I mean I know you all have busy lives -- 
SUSAN Look who's talking. 
ALLISON (a laugh) Yeah, speak for yourself. 
PARRISH Anyway -- I remember when you were little girls -- 
An awkward pause.  Quince chooses to fill the silence. 
QUINCE I love little girls -- 
Allison elbows him. 
PARRISH And now you're all grown up -- and I'm - uh - um -- 
Parrish struggles to keep his emotions in check, Drew clocking his behavior very carefully. 
PARRISH (cont'd) I had some words all prepared but now I've forgotten them - uh - um - wait a minute. 
Silence, everyone waiting for Parrish to proceed. 
PARRISH (cont'd) Uh, it's gone...um -- it was on the tip of my tongue. 
PARRISH Why did you go to the hospital? 
JOE I don't know. 
PARRISH You were just curious? 
JOE I guess... 
PARRISH About Susan? 
JOE I wouldn't put it that way. 
PARRISH What way would you put it? 
JOE You tell me, Bill. 
PARRISH How about you telling me?  When I ask a simple question, I expect a straight answer.  That's what I'm used to.  Anybody who doesn't give it to me, I fire. 
JOE Are you going to fire me, Bill? 
Silence, Parrish is at a loss. 
INT. FOYER - NIGHT 
Drew is putting on his coat, Susan with him, a tension between them, a heavy silence finally broken. 
SUSAN ...See you tomorrow night. 
DREW Include me out.  I've had enough of the conversations. 
SUSAN You don't mean that.  You wouldn't disappoint Daddy -- 
DREW Daddy'll do fine.  Besides, he's got Joe. (a moment) And so do you. 
SUSAN Drew, you're out of line. 
DREW That may be.  But I don't like the fucker.  I don't like the way he looks at you and talks to you.  And vice versa. 
SUSAN Sorry, but I like the way he looks and talks to me.  And vice versa. Okay? 
DREW No, not okay.  I thought we had a good thing going here. (a moment) It shows you never know. 
Silence, neither knows how to continue. 
SUSAN Well... goodnight. 
DREW Yeah.  Goodnight. 
Drew goes, Susan turns to find out at the far end of the foyer, he's been observing them.  She walks up to him. 
SUSAN How long have you been standing there? 
JOE I don't like the way Drew spoken to you.  But I feel better about it now because of the way you spoke back. 
A moment. 
SUSAN Tell me about yourself, Joe.  Who you are.  What you're doing with my father. 
Susan's directness has caught him by surprise, Joe blinks. 
SUSAN (cont'd) So you're not going to tell me? 
Joe remains silent, rendered extremely anxious by Susan's inquiries. 
SUSAN (cont'd) You're married, aren't you? 
JOE Why? 
SUSAN Because guys who never say anything about themselves are always married. 
Joe doesn't respond. 
SUSAN (cont'd) So you are married. 
JOE No, I'm not. 
SUSAN Girlfriend? 
JOE No. 
SUSAN Gay? 
JOE No. 
Susan comes closer to Joe. 
SUSAN Then tell me, Joe, how come a man as attractive, intelligent, well- spoken ,diffident in the most sed- uctive way, and yet powerful, is all alone in this world? 
Joe tries to respond but he can't, his stammer interrupted by Susan. 
SUSAN (cont'd) I'm sorry, I don't want to pry and you don't want to tell me.  So let's leave it a mystery.  That's the way you want it, isn't it? 
Susan takes another step closer to Joe. 
JOE Thank you, I appreciate that. 
They are inches apart now, the smell of each other surrounds them, a heaviness to the moment, now Joe turns to head up the stairs. 
SUSAN Where are you going? 
JOE (softly) To bed. 
SUSAN (suddenly fragile) 'To bed'? 
JOE Yes.  I'm tired. 
He excuses himself with an ineffable gesture, now climbs the stairs, Susan watches him disappear. 
She turns back into the salon just as Allison and Quince are exiting, "good-byes" all around.  Susan is left alone now with Parrish who is fixing a drink at a sidebar. 
PARRISH That was wonderful. 
SUSAN Yeah, it's good to get together. 
ALLISON (cont'd) (to Quince) Did you hear that? 
Quince quickly slashes a piece, takes a huge bite. 
QUINCE This is great, honey.  The orange. Has it got a little vodka in it? Like that Finnish stuff, orange vodka -- (to Parrish) Put your lips around this one, Bill. It's out of this world. 
PARRISH No thank you, Quince. (to Allison) I'm sorry, honey.  I'm no good at this.  Why don't you choose whatever cake you like? 
ALLISON I knew you were going to say that. Tito Puente.  The old platoon.  Now the cake.  You just don't care.  Why did I do this?  I should have my head examined.  I'm trying to throw the party for the century for my father - and you know what -- he doesn't give a shit. 
She bursts into tears all over again. 
QUINCE But he does give a shit.  Don't you, Bill? 
PARRISH Yeah, I give a shit. 
QUINCE See.  There.  What'd I tell you? 
Joe watches as Quince dabs at Allison's tears with a napkin. 
QUINCE (cont'd) Feel better? 
ALLISON Yeah, but -- 
QUINCE But what? 
ALLISON What will I tell Annie? 
Parrish forks a bit of a cake. 
PARRISH This one. 
QUINCE The vodka.  What'd I tell you? 
Quince puts a reassuring arm around Allison, she seems to relax now, Joe has been a keen observer of what has trans- pired between husband and wife, between man and woman, a sense that he has taken in the virtue of such a relation- ship. 
INT. SALON, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT 
After dinner, Parrish, Allison and Susan are gathered to- gether.  At the bar on the other side of the room, Joe watches as Quince pours himself a stiff hooker of brandy. 
JOE (to Quince) Cirrhosis of the liver is the fifth leading killer of adult Western males. 
QUINCE I didn't know that. 
JOE On the other hand, Winston Churchill drank a bottle of cognac a day and lived until he was ninety-one. 
After a moment. 
QUINCE You're an original, Joe.  A little hard to figure, maybe... 
JOE And you're a nice man, Quince. 
QUINCE Thanks. 
JOE You're welcome. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Drew appears unannounced in the doorway, exchanges a tense glance with Susan, then heads straight for Parrish who seems surprised to see him. 
DREW (to Parrish) Sorry to intrude, Bill, but we've got a bit of a crisis downtown -- it's not something we could talk about on the phone. 
Parrish takes Drew aside. 
DREW (cont'd) The Board's real unhappy, Pappy -- they felt you dealt with them pre- emptorily, you never gave them a chance to speak -- 
PARRISH What is there to say?  They know what John Bontecou is -- and if they didn't, they know now. 
DREW Yes, you made your feeling abun- dantly clear.  Now they want to do the same with theirs. 
PARRISH What are their feelings? 
DREW If I read this Board right now, they want you to accept Bontecou's offer. 
PARRISH Over my dead body. 
Parrish's burgeoning anger has now gotten the attention of Joe, Susan, Quince and Allison. 
DREW What do you think the Board is going to say when I tell them that? 
PARRISH I don't care. 
DREW With all due respect, you damn well better care because if you try to stonewall them again, there'll be blood on the floor. 
Silence, Parrish carefully calibrating Drew's remark. 
PARRISH Whose? 
DREW Yours. 
PARRISH I'm feeling real uncomfortable right now because the guy who reports to me is threatening me. 
DREW I'm just giving you the truth.  There was a time when William Parrish liked the truth. 
Joe, although across the room, is all attention. 
PARRISH I think it's time you went home, Drew. 
DREW Certainly.  Goodnight. 
Drew goes, everybody is in shock, Susan pursues him out into the hallway. 
SUSAN Drew! 
He stops. 
SUSAN (cont'd) Never talk to my father like that again. 
DREW Don't worry about it.  There's a beginning and a middle and an end to everything.  And I think I've come to the end of my chapter with the Parrishes. 
Joe has followed them into the hallway. 
DREW (cont'd) And the end began with this guy. 
SUSAN (cont'd) Don't I? 
Her question makes Joe, almost involuntarily, smile.  Susan takes the opportunity to step back from him.  The SOUND of someone at the door, it is Parrish, Susan turns, comprehends immediately how the situation will appear to him. 
SUSAN Goodnight, Daddy. 
She drifts right past him, exits.  Joe and Parrish are left alone now, eyes on each other's. 
JOE Hello, Bill. 
PARRISH (carefully) Hello.  Would you like to join me, Quince and Allison for a nightcap? 
JOE Um -- not right now. 
An awkward moment. 
PARRISH Okay.  Goodnight. 
JOE Goodnight. 
Parrish turns and exits, Joe's head inclines, he breathes in the scent of his collar. 
CUT TO: 
INT. EXECUTIVE SUITE, PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS - NEXT DAY 
Parrish, followed by Joe, emerges from his private elevator, is greeted as usual: 
JENIFER Good morning, Mr. Parrish. 
PARRISH Good morning, Jennifer. 
JENIFER The Board is waiting. 
PARRISH What? 
JENIFER Didn't you call a Board meeting? 
Jennifer sees Parrish is trying to right his balance, she knows better than to press the point. 
JENIFER (cont'd) Yes, the members are waiting.  They are in the Board room now. 
Jennifer nods respectfully as Parrish doesn't cast a flicker of any further surprise, heads straight for the Board room, Joe right beside him. 
INT. BOARD ROOM, PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS - DAY 
Parrish and Joe enter, the entire Board is assembled, includ- ing Drew, Quince and Sloane. 
PARRISH Good morning. 
An odd mixture of responses, the Board sheepish and at the same time looking their most dutiful at this odd meeting, its sudden convening clearly a problem for Parrish, a prob- lem which he does not attempt to hide, only control. 
DREW Did you want to have a cup of coffee or something, Bill? 
PARRISH I don't think so.  Do you? 
Drew gets the message, at the same time Joe is checking out all the attendees, his eyes come to rest on Drew. 
DREW (to Parrish) To get to the point, we have re- ceived new information from John Bontecou concerning his desires for this company to merge with his, and we wanted to set the details before you. 
A moment as Parrish looks around, the moment extends, it appears he may not ever answer. 
PARRISH That's it? 
DREW Bontecou wants a quick response and -- 
PARRISH The answer is no, quick enough for you? 
DREW Don't you want to hear the details? 
PARRISH I'm not interested in the details. And I'm not interested in the big picture either.  What I am inter- ersted in is how my Board got conven- ed behind my back, is entertaining a further proposal from a man whom it offends me to do business with, moreover has the audacity to present this to me like a prize fish, and I am expected to clap for it like a performing seal.  No, thank you. 
DREW So I am to understand from your re- sponse that you do not want to hear the details of Bontecou's offer? 
PARRISH Yes, you are to understand that, and now may I ask you a question? 
DREW Certainly, Bill. 
PARRISH Are you running this Board or am I? 
Sloane leans in. 
SLOANE We're not getting anywhere here. Why don't we take some of the best out of this thing, let's consider it coolly, let's take a week -- 
DREW Bontecou wants a speedier response than that. 
SLOANE He'll wait -- 
PARRISH Doesn't need to.  Today, tomorrow, a week from now -- 'a week from now', who can think about a week from now -- the answer is going to be the same -- a loud, unmistakable, all-inclusive, airtight -- 'No'. 
A BUZZ amongst the Board, they finally rustle into silence under Parrish's withering glance. 
PARRISH (cont'd) That's it?  I've got a busy day and this meeting has already set me behind.  Shall we adjourn? 
DREW Before we do, while we're here, there is a second question the Board would like a response to, a far simpler one. 
Parrish waits. 
DREW (cont'd) Who is the man sitting to the right of you? 
Everybody's eyes are on Joe. 
PARRISH I've already introduced Mr. Black to you all. 
DREW But who is he?  What are his creden- tials?  What is his relationship to you? 
No response from Parrish. 
DREW (cont'd) The feeling of the Board is this: we fear Mr. Black is not only influenc- ing your decisions in regard to this company, but that you are relying on him to make them for you. 
Quince flinches at these words, his hands clasped in front of him, his knuckles white as Parrish regards Drew, but still does not answer. 
DREW (cont'd) The lack of response, Bill, is not appropriate.  We are your Board, we have a right to know how you are managing the operations of this company, and most importantly, that you have not delegated someone to do it for you. 
JOE Yah. 
EASTER You loved back? 
JOE I am. 
EASTER She knows you real self? 
JOE She knows how she feel. 
EASTER (scoffing) Rass! 
JOE (irritably) Don' need you okayin'. 
EASTER Schoolboy tings is you head. Badness for you, badness for her, badness for me, lyin' here tumor, big as breadfruit, poison my inners an' waiting. 
JOE Brung you flowers and all I gettin's facety back. 
EASTER (stubbornly) Only flowers I wan' see's one's over my peaceful self restin' in the dutty. 
JOE Can do no right by people.  Come to take, you wan' to stay, leave you stay, you wan' to go.  Rahtid! 
Silence, Easter waits, watching Joe. 
EASTER You not in you right place, mistah. 
Easter's response stops Joe cold, he looks away and then back at her, she had clearly reached him. 
EASTER (cont'd) I ain' either.  No more.  You come wi' me now.  Take me. 
JOE But I not lonely here.  Somebody want me here. 
Easter considers Joe, she smiles sympathetically. 
EASTER It nice it happen to you.  It like you came to Cat Island and you had a holiday, sun didn't burn you red, just brown, sleep no mosquito eat you, rum no poung you head nex' day. But trut' is, dat bound to happen, you stay long enough.  So tak dat nice picture home wi' you, but don' be fooled.  We lonely here mostly, too.  If we lucky, we got some nice pictures. 
Easter drifts into silence, her eyes and Joe's meet, a sense they understand each other.  Easter shifts, trying hard to ease her discomfort. 
JOE (gently) Got enough nice pictured, Easter. 
She looks at him and nods gratefully and closes her eyes. Joe watches her, now his eyes close.  Easter exhales raspingly, falls still.  The monitors flatline.  A beeping alarm sound somewhere down the hall. 
Joe opens his eyes, takes a deep breath, he seems troubled. 
JOE (cont'd) G'bye, sistah. 
She slips out of the room. 
INT. LIBRARY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON 
Parrish is playing solitaire.  The SOUND of the front door closing, HEELS crossing the foyer, he looks up, at the foyer door is Susan. 
PARRISH Hello, honey. 
He starts to get up, she motions to him to stay, looks around now. 
SUSAN Where's Joe? 
PARRISH Joe? 
A silence. 
PARRISH (cont'd) Joe's not around. 
SUSAN Where is he? 
PARRISH I don't know. 
Susan seems distracted. 
PARRISH (cont'd) Why are you looking for Joe? 
SUSAN Because I was sitting in a staff meeting, incredibly bored, my mind kept wandering and the only place it landed was -- Joe. 
PARRISH I don't understand. 
SUSAN Love.  Passion.  Obsession, all those things you told me to wait for.  Well, they've arrived. 
Parrish blinks, stares down at his cards. 
PARRISH This is crazy -- 
SUSAN Why?  A man appears at your side, almost never leaves it, you clearly trust him, depend on him, I sense you value him deeply, why aren't those things good enough for me? 
PARRISH You don't know anything about Joe -- 
SUSAN What are you afraid of, Dad?  That I'll fall head over heels for Joe -- well, I have -- as you did with Mom. (a moment) That's always been standard, whether you like or not. 
Parrish tries to get hold of himself, changes gear now. 
PARRISH Susan, I don't think Joe is going to be with us long. 
SUSAN Where's he going? 
PARRISH I don't know, I can't say -- 
SUSAN C'mon!  The guy's working with you. You always know chapter and verse about everyone who works -- 
PARRISH In this case, I can't.  I - uh -- I just can't help you.  I only would tell you -- that with Joe, you are on very, very dangerous ground. 
Susan doesn't answer for a moment. 
SUSAN I love him. 
PARRISH I don't care if you love him!  I'm telling you he's no good for you! 
A moment. 
SUSAN Of course not, Daddy.  I'm sorry. 
There is something in Susan's tone that lets him know not a word has sunk in.  Parrish slumps. 
SUSAN (cont'd) I love you, too. 
Parrish shakes his head. 
PARRISH You are amazing.  Why, oh why, Allison, are you doing all this? 
But before she can answer, a workman is tugging at Allison's sleeve, she turns away from Parrish to give him instructions out of Parrish's earshot, and then turns back, they step away now, daughter and father, alone. 
ALLISON I do it because I love you.  Because everybody I loved you.  Mommy -- wher- ever she is -- Susan, Quince, the people who work for you, everybody who's ever known you. 
PARRISH Yeah?  And what about my enemies? 
ALLISON They respect you.  Isn't that a kind of love? 
Unexpectedly, Allison brushes a lock away from Parrish's forehead, with a flick she has rearranged his hair, he blinks, a little embarrassed, but having liked it. 
ALLISON (cont'd) Above all, you've been a wonderful father. 
PARRISH I haven't been the father to you that -- 
ALLISON That you've been to Susan? 
PARRISH I wasn't going to say -- 
ALLISON But that's what you were thinking. And that's okay.  Because I know you love me.  Not like it is with Susan, the way your eyes light up when she comes in the room and the way she always gets a laugh out of you, as opposed to me when I walk in a room and that look comes over your face, "What does she want now?" 
A weather-beaten military parade ground pennant passes, 24th Infantry Regiment  "C" (Charlie) Company. 
ALLISON (cont'd) I already feel I've had everything I could have wanted for my birthday -- 
PARRISH Hey, there's lots to come. (gesturing to me activity) A little excess -- like you love. 
The preparations are building to a climax, all the elaborate plans coming to fruition. 
PARRISH You know, darling, this is going to be a wonderful party. 
ALLISON (gently) Yes, it is. 
Allison wades into the maelstrom now, Parrish watches her go, swarms of purveyors and caterers following her. 
EXT. WINE BAR, LAWNS, COUNTRY ESTATE - AFTERNOON 
Ambrose, the head caterer, is making a last minute check of the bar's stock, Quince ambles up, in the background the activity has built to a pitch, waiters adjusting their uni- forms, purveyors' trucks pulling out in a cloud of dust. 
QUINCE Give me a Seagrams and '7'. 
Ambrose looks at him blankly. 
QUICNCE (cont'd) No got?  Okay a double V.O., water back. 
AMBROSE I'm afraid this is a wine bar, Mr. Quince. 
QUINCE Okay, give me a bottle of wine. 
AMBROSE Red or white? 
QUINCE Both. 
Joe appears, looking bewildered, jostled by caterers setting up last-minute tables, a drummer from the band rolls his traps past on a little cart.  Joe doesn't seem to know where he is, when his eyes alight on Quince, he heads for this oasis.  Ambrose sets down two bottles of wine and departs. 
QUINCE (cont'd) (to Joe) Red or white? 
JOE No, thank you. 
Quince sips the red, now the white, now he pours some of each into one glass. 
QUINCE C'mon, have a drink.  You look like you need one bad as me. 
JOE Do I?  I'm a little confused. 
QUINCE Confused, huh?  About what? 
JOE Love. 
QUINCE 'Love'?  Oh, man, I've got troubles of my own. 
JOE You love Allison, don't you? 
QUINCE Oh yes, I do. 
JOE How did you meet? 
QUINCE I was a world-class loser and she was a happy, little rich girl -- and for some reason she took me in. 
JOE But she loves you? 
Quince smiles, nods embarrassedly. 
JOE (cont'd) How do you know? 
QUINCE Because there's nothing we don't know about each other and it's okay. I mean the deeper, darkest secrets -- they don't matter. 
JOE 'The deepest, darkest secrets --'? 
QUINCE Yeah, it's like you know every inch of each other's souls -- and then you're free. 
JOE What do you mean 'free'? 
QUINCE Free to love each other.  Com- pletely.  Totally.  No fear. 
Quince seems uncharacteristically within himself. 
QUINCE (cont'd) All that hoopla up there reminds me how I will never measure up to a man like Bill Parrish - or his daughter. 
He drains his wine. 
QUINCE (cont'd) Do you like me, Joe? 
JOE Oh yes, you are one of my favorites. 
QUINCE What would you say if you knew it was me who brought down Bill Parrish? (a moment) I told Drew and the Board that Bill depended on you.  Drew led me on, but I had no business telling him in the first place.  He was setting up Bill from day one.  Drew and Bontecou are going to chop up the company and sell it off for parts. Bontecou was outside, Drew was Mr. Inside.  And I was the fool who made it all happen.  Oh God, what do I do? 
Joe regards Quince. 
JOE Go to Bill Parrish and tell him everything.  He'll forgive you. 
QUINCE ...what can I say after I say that I'm sorry?  I zipped when I should've zagged, I opened my big mouth one too many times, everything got all twisted -- 
PARRISH It's okay, Quince.  I understand. You've always meant well and I appreciate that.  Sometimes things just turn out -- wrong. 
A KNOCK on the door, it opens, Joe appears. 
JOE Excuse me -- 
He starts to step out. 
QUINCE Come in, Joe -- I want to thank you -- okay, Bill? 
PARRISH Sure. 
As Joe enters, Quince flashes a warm smile at him. 
QUINCE (to Parrish) Joe knew the whole story.  I told him.  It was his idea that I come clean.  I mean I wanted to come clean but he gave me a pair of balls, you know what I mean? 
PARRISH Yes, I believe I do. 
Quince now drifts off. 
QUICHE Yeah, well -- I can tell you guys got business -- 
PARRISH No, I'm out of business, right, Quince?  However I do have some unfinished business -- with Drew. Get him out here.  Get him on the chopper and get him out here to- night.  I want to tell this guy how I feel about him face-to-face. 
QUINCE Oh, that could be a tall order, B.P. I doubt that Drew's anxious to see you face-to-face. 
Joe steps in. 
JOE (to Quince) Tell Drew that Bill acknowledges that this was a contest and he's lost.  The race is to the swift, but could Drew summon a modicum of understanding and allow Bill to save face.  Tell him Bill wants it understood in the business community he has merely moved upstairs in his own company, and the executive continuity is unbroken.  Tonight's the night to do it.  He'll introduce Drew to his press friends as well as some of his close acquaintances from Washington and Drew can tell them that everything's sailing along just fine. 
Parrish is impressed by Joe's acumen, a look of grudging admiration.  He nods to Joe, summarizes: 
PARRISH (to Quince) All in all, what Bill wants to do is build the golden bridge to Drew with no hard feelings. 
QUINCE You think Drew will go for it? 
PARRISH Quince, I've got confidence in you. 
QUINCE Sir, I'll deliver the package. 
He heads out, Parrish and Joe fall silent. 
PARRISH Thanks. 
JOE Not at all. 
A moment. 
JOE (cont'd) How are you doing? 
PARRISH What the hell do you care? 
JOE I was just asking, Bill. 
PARRISH You 'want to know', I'll tell you. You're looking at a man who tonight is not about to walk through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, he's galloping into it.  And the same time, the business he built with his own hands and his own head is being commandeered by a couple of cheap pirates.  And, oh yes, I almost forgot, my daughter's fallen in love with Death. 
Another moment. 
JOE -- And I'm in love with your daughter. 
PARRISH Say again? 
JOE I'm in love with your daughter, and I'm taking her with me tonight. 
Parrish is stunned. 
PARRISH You're what? 
JOE I think you heard me, Bill. 
PARRISH You're not taking Susan anywhere. And what the hell does that mean anyway? 
Joe doesn't answer for a moment. 
PARRISH (cont'd) I thought we had a deal. 
JOE I'm sorry, Bill -- 
PARRISH Susan is my daughter, she has a wonderful life ahead of her and you're going to deprive her of it and you're telling me you're sorry?  Well, I'm sorry, apology not accepted. 
JOE I love her, Bill.  She is all that I ever wanted, and I've never wanted for anything because I've never wanted anything before, if you can understand. 
PARRISH How perfect for you -- to take whatever you want because it pleases you.  It's not love -- 
JOE Then what is it? 
PARRISH Some aimless infatuation in which, for the moment, you feel like in- dulging.  It's missing everything that matters. 
JOE Which is what? 
PARRISH Trust, responsibility, taking the weight, for your choices and feel- ings and spending the rest of your life living up to them.  And above all, not hurting the object of your love. 
JOE So that's what love is? 
PARRISH Multiply it by infinity and take it to the death of forever and you will still have barely a glimpse of what I am talking about. 
JOE Those were my words, Bill. 
PARRISH Well, they're mine now. 
Joe is silent for a moment, cogitating. 
JOE Susan wants to come.  She says she's in love with me. 
PARRISH With you?!  Who is 'you'?  Did you tell her who you are? 
JOE No. 
PARRISH Does she know where she's going? 
Joe doesn't answer. 
SUSAN -- Yes? 
JOE Thank you for loving me. 
She smiles wanly, Joe leaves her. 
INT. PARRISH'S STUDY, COUNTRY ESTATE - NIGHT 
Parrish is seated by the window, lights from the party flashing past, the MUSIC and laughter audible but muted, the fever of the celebration lost on him, within himself. 
Joe enters, Parrish looks up. 
JOE ...We should think about getting started, Bill. 
Parrish waits. 
JOE (cont'd) It'll just be us. 
The tension in Parrish's body releases, he takes a breath. 
PARRISH Thank you. 
Joe nods an acknowledgement, but his face reflects his pain. Parrish regards him sympathetically. 
The silence is broken by a KNOCK on the door.  Parrish, out of politeness to Joe, does not respond. 
QUINCE (O.S.) Bill --? 
After a moment. 
PARRISH Come in. 
Quince appears, flushed with excitement. 
QUINCE -- I got him.  The chopper's two minutes away. 
Parrish weighs the information for a moment. 
PARRISH (to Joe) How are we on time? 
Joe shrugs, nods gently. 
JOE Okay. 
PARRISH (to Quince) Get him in here. 
Quince exits, Parrish presses the button for the speaker- phone. 
PARRISH (cont'd) ...May? -- I know you're busy,  but I want you to put in a call to Eddie Sloane for me -- 
MAY (O.S.) At home, sir --? 
PARRISH No, he's at the office. 
EXT. LAWNS, COUNTRY ESTATE - NIGHT 
An area on the fringe of the party, the helicopter blades stop spinning.  Quince hurries to the aircraft door, opens it and Drew steps out.  Quince leads the way through the lights and MUSIC.  Drew, fashioning an imperial entrance for himself, hails partygoers as he passes, Quince enjoying the irony. 
DREW This is damn big of Bill, I also think it's smart. 
QUINCE He had no choice.  You're a formidable adversary. 
DREW He said that? 
QUINCE Well, you've got him by the short- hairs. 
DREW Yeah, the short, gray hairs. 
He flashes a pleased-as-punch greeting to some unseen acquaintance as they press on to Parrish's study. 
INT. PARRISH'S STUDY, COUNTRY ESTATE - NIGHT 
Parrish is at his desk, Joe in a distant corner of the room. 
SLOANE (O.S.) (speakerphone) We're all here, Bill -- 
PARRISH I appreciate this, Eddie, members of the Board, this will just take a minute of your time.  As the custo- dians of the company, you may re- ceive information from what follows that is valuable to you -- (a moment) -- or not.  Either way, thanks. 
SLOANE (O.S.) (speakerphone) We're all ears. 
Drew enters with Quince, Quince nods, excusing himself, and closes the door behind him. 
DREW Hi, Bill, happy birthday -- 
A moment. 
DREW (cont'd) I just wanted to say how appre- ciative I am of this - uh - grand gesture and -- 
PARRISH Shut up and sit down. 
Drew takes a seat. 
PARRISH (cont'd) You're a worthless sack of shit, you fucked me over, played footsie with John Bontecou, sold my company out to line your own pockets. 
DREW I don't know where you get that idea -- the Board agreed -- 
PARRISH The Board didn't know you're a mole who burrowed inside so you could bury us all. 
DREW Is this Mr. Black's fantasy?  Another one of his whoppers?  Aren't you sick of this asshole lurking around? No one knows who he is, but one thing everyone does know, he somehow got your ear and has been pouring poison into it ever since. 
Joe can no longer control himself. 
JOE You're the poison, Drew.  You've operated behind-the-scenes to suborn the trust of a man who has stamped you with his imprimatur of class and elegance and stature.  I've seen all kinds and degrees of deception in my time, but Bill Parrish has been on the receiving end of machinations so Machiavellian that it has rarely been my experience to encounter.  And yet he has combatted them stoically, and selflessly, without revealing my identity.  Had he violated the vow of secrecy he took, his task would have been far easier, he could have turned defeat into victory, but he is too honorable a man to have done that.  And now I must release him from that vow.  Because of me, he has lost his work, his company, his reputation -- and now he's going to tell you who I am. 
Parrish is struck dumb.  He looks at Joe pleadingly, shaking his head imperceptibly, but Joe nods to him blithely -- and then commandingly. 
DREW (to Parrish) So tell me, tell me, I'm peeing in my pants. 
JOE -- And now you're going to pee some more. 
PARRISH Joe, don't do this -- 
JOE It's time to put this person where he belongs. 
PARRISH (gently) I'm sorry. 
Susan is examining Parrish very closely. 
SUSAN Are you relieved? 
PARRISH Yes, but -- 
Parrish hesitates. 
SUSAN But what? 
PARRISH I want you to know how much I love you.  That you've given a meaning to my life that I had no right to expect, and that no one can ever take from me. 
SUSAN Daddy -- 
PARRISH No -- I love you so much and I want you to promise me something.  I don't want you to ever worry about me.  If anything should happen, I'm going to be fine and everything's going to be all right. (a moment) -- And I have no regrets. 
Susan is in pain now, she can't summon an answer. 
PARRISH (cont'd) And I want you to feel that way, too. 
SUSAN I love you, Daddy -- 
PARRISH That's why it's okay. 
They drift into silence. 
PARRISH (cont'd) No regrets? 
After a moment. 
SUSAN 'No regrets'. 
A long silence, Susan smiles. 
PARRISH It's a good feeling, isn't it? 
Silence again. 
SUSAN Everybody's saying goodbye... 
They regard each other, a long pause, they have reached an understanding. 
PARRISH I'm still here. (a moment) Would you like to dance with me, Susan? 
SUSAN Oh, yes -- 
He starts to lead her to the floor, immediately stops. 
PARRISH If you don't mind dancing with an old fogey like me. 
SUSAN Oh, Dad, you're not old.  You'll never be old. 
He takes her in his arms and they dance away. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
On a distant fringe of the party, a grass terrace that still commands a view of the dance floor, is Joe.  His eyes are on Parrish and Susan, he watches them admiringly yet ruefully. A Waiter passes, catches sight of Joe, stops. 
WAITER Can I get you anything, sir? 
Joe regards the Waiter for a moment. 
JOE Do you have any peanut butter? 
The Waiter hesitates. 
WAITER I don't think so, sir. 
JOE Thank you, anyway. 
The Waiter moves off.  Joe's attention returns to Parrish and Susan, the dance number ends, a BOOM. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
On the dance floor. 
PARRISH What was that? 
SUSAN The fireworks are about to start. 
Parrish looks up, sees Joe up on the terrace, waiting. 
SUSAN (cont'd) (to Parrish) Shall we? 
PARRISH You go ahead, honey, I'm going to catch my breath. 
Suddenly he hugs her, holds her very close.  She looks at him, he smiles, nods, but doesn't release her until she smiles back.  Now she heads out with the crowd for the fireworks.  When Parrish senses she is on her way, he turns and heads up towards Joe. 
Joe rises to meet Parrish as he approaches. 
JOE Happy Birthday, Bill. 
PARRISH Thank you. 
They watch the guests gathering to view the fireworks. Joe's gaze lingers. 
PARRISH (cont'd) Did you say goodbye? 
JOE Not exactly. 
PARRISH I guess you have your reasons. 
JOE Yes. 
Silence. 
PARRISH Now that we have a moment, would you mind if I expressed my gratitude for what you did for Susan? 
Joe waits. 
PARRISH (cont'd) I never heard her speak of any man as she spoke of you -- It was always what I wanted for her -- but what happens to her now? 
