The pink Manager points at his watch angrily. 
MANAGER Four to midnight, understand? 
Angle widens to include Joe, holding his suitcase and radio. Ralph stares at him curiously, stacking dishes. 
JOE Say, look, uh, I gotta have a word with you, if you got a second. 
MANAGER Later. Later maybe. 
The Manager hurries away, carrying a basket of dishes. 
RALPH You ain't coming to work? 
JOE Don't guess. Just come for my day's pay owing and to tell you I'm heading East. 
Joe tilts his Stetson as the Waitress appears at the door... 
WAITRESS Cups! 
... but she disappears without noticing Joe. Ralph offers his hand. Joe takes it, holds it. 
RALPH What you gonna do back there, East? 
JOE Lotta rich women back there... 
RALPH Yeah? 
JOE Men, they mostly faggots. 
RALPH Must be some mess back there. 
JOE Well, ain't no use hanging around here. 
RALPH Ain't gonna collect your pay? 
JOE I got me two hundred twenty-four bucks of flat folding money... (slaps hip) He know what he can do with that chicken-shit day's pay. And if he ain't man enough to do it for himself, I be happy to oblige! 
INT. SUNSHINE CAFETERIA - DAY 
The door marked EMPLOYEES ONLY swings open and Joe appears, measuring his effect on the customers and his fellow employees as he crosses the sterile white dining room, observing the drab details of the life he has left behind - garbage on greasy dishes, limp food in steam table trays, coffee-soaked cigarette butts, caked mustard and ketchup on formica table tops -- two pimply high school girls slurping suggestive noises after Joe through the straws of empty coke glasses. O.S. a Tiomkin-tradition chorus sings, "From this valley they say you are going -- we will miss your bright eyes and sweet smile for they say you are taking the sunshine..." 
EXT. TOWN MAIN STREET - DAY 
The song ends as Joe comes from the cafeteria "... that brightened our pathway a while." 
JOE Tough tiddy, ladies, you had your chance. 
From a high angle -- Joe starts his long walk toward the bus depot along the street of a small Western town struggling to urbanize itself. The click-clack-click of his boots is loud but somehow lonely The radio at his ear drones grain prices on the Commodity change. Joe's pace slows as he passes... 
EXT. SALLY BUCK'S BEAUTY SALON - DAY 
... a gilt-lettered sign in the window, glittering in the sun, momentarily hiding the fact that the shop is deserted. Joe grins as he hears remembered sounds and voices incomplete flashes, more significant in tone than content a girl giggling sexily -- "Keep your meat hooks off my beauty operators, sugar" -- tinkling noises of a busy beauty parlor - Sally Buck singing "Hush, little baby, don't say a word, Grammaw gonna buy you a mockingbird..." 
... a shift of light revealing a row of tarnished driers, a broken mirror, a FOR RENT sign in the window. Joe turns toward the bus depot, radio pressed to his ear. 
ANNOUNCER'S VOICE Benson and Hedges One Hundreds makes special awards from time to time for anything that's longer than anything... 
JOE Care to get out your yardstick, gentlemen? 
At the same moment, a recognizable variant of the "Big Country" theme blares loud. 
INTERCUT WESTERN FILM CLIP 
Gary Cooper (or John Wayne) walks a frontier street. 
SALLY BUCK'S VOICE Don't forget to say your prayers, honey... 
Joe leans forward to help the old Lady, irritably struggling with the release button on her seat. She scowls as Joe leans over to release her seat, then pulls her blanket around her and turns away from him. Joe switches off her reading light. 
OLD LADY I want it on. 
Joe switches it on again, fakes a good-natured grin, settles back with his radio, aware of an OLD COWHAND seated opposite him, replacing the Pale Blonde. The Old Cowhand is appraising Joe's wardrobe curiously. He looks away when he sees Joe watching him. Joe settles back, unable to think of a way to open a conversation. 
EVANGELIST'S VOICE Oh, my friends, I say unto you, invest with Jesus, put your dollars to work where they'll pay off at compound interest. The Good Book says money answereth all things... 
The Old Cowhand has rolled-himself a cigarette. Joe quickly lights a match on his thumb and holds it across the aisle. 
JOE Light? 
The Old Cowhand's "thanks" is lost in a fit of coughing as he inhales his first drag. He settles back, wiping his watery eyes on a faded bandana. 
EVANGELIST'S VOICE ... everyone who sends a dollar to the Evangelical Congregation of the Air will get free gratis a genuine leatherette hymn book so you can sing along with Sister Rosella and the Evangelical Choir... 
JOE You throw in Sister Rosella and you got a deal, right, old timer? 
Joe glances across the aisle. The Old Cowhand manages a faint, humorless smile. 
JOE (CONT'D) Going far? 
OLD COWHAND Up the line. Not far. 
JOE I'm bound for New York City. 
The Old Cowhand reappraises Joe's wardrobe even more curiously. 
JOE (CONT'D) Ever happen to come across a cowman name of Woodsy Niles? Friend of my grammaw Sally Buck... 
The Old Cowhand considers, shakes his head. Joe leans back, laughing to himself. 
INT. REMEMBERED BEDROOM - ANOTHER TIME 
Little Joe's head is lost in a beat-up cowboy hat, similar to the one worn by the old Cowhand. Sally Buck smiles on WOODSY NILES -- a long-legged cowboy with a shock of black hair -- who stands at her dressing table, admiring himself in a new Stetson. 
SALLY BUCK Like it, honey? Does it fit? 
WOODSY You do me good, Sal, you do me real good. You know what I gonna give you for that Stetson? 
Woodsy grabs Sally Buck, lifting her off her feet, carrying her to the bed. Struggling, they fall across the covers together, Little Joe laughing with them. 
SALLY BUCK Woodsy Niles! The boy! 
WOODSY He don't know what makes little apples by now, it's time he found out. 
INT. BUS - NIGHT 
Joe shakes his head, grinning, offering the old Cowhand a cigarette. 
JOE Smoke? 
The old Cowhand shakes his head, showing the rolled cigarette Joe lit for him. Joe nods, still bemused. 
INT. REMEMBERED BEDROOM - ANOTHER TIME 
Little Joe is cuddled in Sally Buck's arms, under the covers, watching Woodsy, sitting cross-legged on the bed, naked except for his Stetson and guitar, singing drunkenly. 
WOODSY ... git along little dogies! 
EXT. MIDWEST TOWN - MORNING 
From a high angle -- the bus slows to a stop. 
INT. REMEMBERED MOVIE HOUSE - ANOTHER TIME 
ANASTASIA clutches a younger Joe, eyes wild, gasping. 
ANASTASIA You're the only one, Joe, the only, only one ever! 
INT. BUS - DAY 
Joe is leaning across the two Marines, staring out of the window as the Veterans switch to "Anchors aweigh, my boys, anchors aweigh..." 
EXT. MANHATTAN SKYLINE - DAY 
A stunning view through the bus window past Joe's reflection. 
JOE'S REFLECTION Gonna swing my lasso and rope that whole goddam island, yeah! 
EXT. BROADWAY PARADE - DAY 
Drum majorettes leading the parade -- ticker tape and confetti -- girls at skyscraper windows. 
INTERCUT NEWSREEL CLIP 
Charles Lindberg (or James Stewart) waving at the crowd. 
EXT. NEW YORK HARBOR - DAY 
Girls lining the piers -- flags, banners, bunting -- ship horns, whistles, bells. 
INT. BUS - DAY 
Joe crowded as the veterans prepare to leave the bus, lifting down banners and flags. 
EXT. LINCOLN TUNNEEL - DAY 
The bus suddenly surrounded by converging traffic, horns honking, segueing into the noises of Times Square. 
EXT. MARQUEE - DAY 
Flag draped, reading: WELCOME VETERANS. 
EXT. STREET - BANNER - DAY 
Flapping in the wind -- WELCOME VETERANS! 
EXT. TIMES SQUARE PALACE HOTEL - DAY 
The marquee announces TRANSIENTS WELCOME. O.S. a singing radio station break blares "W-I-N-S NEW YORK..." 
EXT. RADIO TOWER - DAY 
The sign flashes WINS "... ten-ten on your dial!" A torchy woman's voice sings from a lonely echo chamber -- introducing a love theme which will haunt Joe throughout the film. 
INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY 
Joe sets his radio on the dresser, his suitcase on the bed, then turns to examine his new home -- as anonymous as his Texas hotel room -- but boasting a coin-operated television set. Fascinated, Joe inserts a quarter. 
... the love song continues over a television talk Show featuring a POODLE WIGMAKER defending his profession against a Joe Pyne-type PANEL HOST, "...well, I perform a real service, there's a need, so many people, you know, really live in their pets, I mean, lonely, I grant you, but their feeling is real. They want to lavish as much love, give them as much, yes, pamper them like they were really human children or whatever..." 
SALLY BUCK'S VOICE There's a TV dinner in the fridge, lover boy... 
INT. REMEMBERED PARLOR - ANOTHER TIME 
Little Joe stares sullenly at an antique TV box while Sally Buck puts her hat on at the fireplace mirror. There is a framed picture of Woodsy Niles on the mantle. 
SALLY BUCK You be okay, won't you? Maybe I bring you a treat if you're a good boy... 
EXT. TIMES SQUARE PALACE HOTEL - DAY 
From a low angle -- identical with the postcard photograph -- an unseen hand scrawls a huge X--- THIS IS ME. Camera zooms up to a close-up of Joe at the window. 
EXT. FIFTH AVENUE - DAY 
From on high -- as though Joe were watching himself -- the Stetson moves through a crowd of Fifth Avenue shoppers... 
EXT. GLASS BUILDING - DAY 
... passing a glass bank, lady tellers counting money... 
EXT. CAR SHOWROOM - DAY 
... passing a display of imported luxury cars... 
EXT. JEWELRY STORE - DAY 
... passing a window which features a single gem -- pausing as horns blast O.S. and a mod blonde in a stalled sports car motions to Joe -- she needs a push. Joe grins, glances at himself in the window, runs a comb through his hair, then turns back to see a cop helping the mod blonde. 
EXT. PARK AVENUE - DAY 
Joe's heels drag as he walks a deserted block of luxury apartment houses. O.S. The torchy woman's voice sings Joe's love theme in counterpoint to the blasting horns, a siren, a fire bell, a screech of brakes. Joe's spirits rise as he hears the tic-tac-tic of high heels overtaking the heavy click-clack-click of his boots. He adjusts his pace to arrive at the corner at the same time as a smart and -- in Joe's eyes -- very RICH LADY. Joe grins boyishly, holding his Stetson over his heart. 
JOE Beg pardon, ma'am, I'm new here in town, just in from Houston, Texas, and looking for the Statue of Liberty. 
The delicate profile gives no signs of hearing. Joe follows her to the parkway in the middle of the avenue. There she stops and turns, neither friendly nor hostile. 
RICH LADY Were you looking? About the Statue of Liberty? 
JOE Joking? No, ma'am. Oh no! I mean business! 
RICH LADY I'm sorry. I thought you were -- never mind -- I've never actually been there, but let me see, you take the Seventh Avenue subway, I think, to the end of the line... 
JOE You sure are a pretty lady. 
The Rich Lady tries to frown, taken aback, blushing. 
RICH LADY You're not looking for the Statue of Liberty at all. 
JOE No, ma'am, I'm not. 
RICH LADY Why, that's perfectly dreadful. Aren't you ashamed of yourself? 
A twinkle of amusement and sympathy reveals the age lines at the corner of her eyes. Then she continues on quickly, just as the light turns. Joe's view is blocked for a moment by traffic, then he sees... 
... the Rich Lady, newly aware of her flanks as she climbs the steps of a brownstone and searches for her key. Still from Joe's viewpoint, he sees himself move into frame and follow the Rich Lady up the steps. The love theme swells O.S. as the Rich Lady leads him into the house and closes the door... 
... leaving Joe standing alone on the parkway island, surrounded by towering wealth. The love theme continues over... 
EXT. LEXINGTON AVENUE - DAY 
... a pair of high-heeled pink slippers, walking a miniature poodle -- slowing slightly, reacting to Joe's cowboy boots as they pass, pause and turn back. 
CASS'S VOICE Hurry up, Baby. Do um goody-goods for Mama. 
Joe grins, holding his hat over his heart as he approaches CASS TREHUNE, a blonde lady in a tight black dress, with the look of a movie star who wrecked her career with food. 
JOE Beg pardon, ma'am. I'm brand spanking new to this town, come from Houston, Texas, and hoping to get a look at the Statue of Liberty... 
CASS You're hoping to get a look at what? 
JOE The Statue of Liberty. 
CASS It's up in Central Park, taking a leak. If you hurry, you'll make the supper show. Now get lost. 
INT. CASS'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Joe turns away from a small terrace, buckling his belt, glancing off toward the sound of Cass in the shower. He flicks the TV remote control, enjoying his power, ignoring the silent images on the screen -- battle casualties, a pretty girl recommending aspirin, a man's stomach flashing animated pain, starving war refugees, a dog eating pzazz -- flicking it off to concentrate on the costume jewelry and perfume bottles on Cass's dressing table. 
CASS'S VOICE Don't look, baby... 
Joe turns to look as Cass comes from the bathroom, holding a towel around her as she runs behind the closet door. 
JOE Say, Cass, I, uh, sure have enjoyed being here. Believe it's as fine a time as I've had in my life! 
CASS'S VOICE Me, too, lover. 
JOE That's good, it is, cause, well I guess I didn't tell you why I came to New York, did I? 
A tower of black bugle beads emerges from the closet door. 
CASS Zip this thing, will you, Tex? 
Joe zips her dress, follows her to the dressing table, where she sprays her hair with lacquer. 
JOB Truth is, Cass, I'm, well, I'm in business. 
CASS Oh, poor you. Morey's got terrible ulcers. 
Cass stretches her upper lip across her teeth and she smears it with, orange lipstick. 
JOE Don't know what line Morey's in, but myself now, fact is -- I'm a hustler. 
CASS (lips stretched) Hers'n zodda meg a livig. 
JOE Beg pardon, ma'am? 
CASS Said, a person's gotta make a living. 
JOE You sure you heard what I said? 
CASS Scuse me, hon, fraid I'm only half here. Maybe you oughta run on along. But why don't you take this phone number? 
Joe grins, relieved as she takes out a gold lame purse and opens it. He frowns as she folds; it upside down, empty. 
CASS (CONT'D) Darn! I didn't get to the bank -- Tex -- could you let me have a little coin for the taxi-waxi? 
Joe stands mute as she cups his chin in her hand, seductively. 
CASS (CONT'D) You're such a doll. I hate money, don't you? God, it's been fun. 
JOE Funny thing, you mentioning money. I was just about to ask your for some... 
Joe tries to laugh but it sticks in his throat as Cass speaks -- an impassioned whisper -- still holding Joe's chin. 
CASS You bastard! You son of a bitch! You think you're dealing with some old slut? Look at me! You think just cause you're a longhorn bull you can get away with this crap? Well, you're out of your mind. I am a gorgeous chick, thirty-one, that's right, you said it! 
Sobbing suddenly, she throws herself on the bed. Joe stands bewildered by the vastness of her grief. 
JOE Hey. Hey, Cass. Did you think I meant that? Christ, would I be asking you for money with a wad like that riding on my hip? 
Joe waves his wallet at her, but she only cries louder. He hands her a kleenex. She clutches it to her face, wailing. Joe leans over the bed, whispering in her ear: 
JOE (CONT'D) Hey. You are a gorgeous-looking piece, Cass. Guy gets horny, just looking at you. It's a fact. How much you need for that taxi? Ten? Twenty? There you go. 
Joe tucks a twenty-dollar bill into her bosom, tilts his Stetson and starts out. Cass blows her nose, looking after him. O.S. chorus sings, "From this valley they say you are going -- we will miss your bright eyes and sweet smile..." 
EXT. LEXINGTON AVENUE - DAY 
From a high angle, Joe walks away from the apartment house, chorus continuing O.S. "... they say you are taking the sunshine that brightened our pathway a while." 
JACKIE May I ask one thing, cowboy? If you sit there and he sits way over there, how's he gonna get his hand into your pocket? But I'm sure he has that all figured out... (to Ratso) Good night, sweets. 
TV HOST May present your chosen mate! 
The TV host pulls aside the screen which has concealed the lower half of the three young men. Number Two, her chosen mate, is a dwarf sitting on a high stool. The girl's spontaneous dismay starts everyone laughing hysterically, including the dwarf. 
EXT. SIXTH AVENUE - DAY 
Joe has difficulty keening up with Ratso, who swings himself along with surprising agility, his half skipping little gate favoring one game leg. 
RATSO Look, with these chicks that want to buy it, most of 'em are older, dignified, right? Social register types. They can't be trotting down to Times Square to pick out the merchandise. They need a middleman, right? That's O'Daniel. 
Joe hesitates as Ratso darts into traffic against a red light, yelling unheard obscenities at a cab driver who blasts his horn. Joe runs recklessly forward as Ratso slams the taxi fender with his fist, pretending to be hit, falling into Joe's arms. The taxi stops, halting traffic. Ratso, recovers, strolls casually in front of the cab, biting his thumb at the driver. 
RATSO (CONT'D) It is a crime, a stud like you passing out double sawbucks to a chick like that. With proper management you should be taking home fifty, a hundred bucks a day. More if you wanta moonlight... 
EXT. SIDEWALK CAFE - COCKTAIL HOUR 
At,the corner of Central Park South, Ratso points toward a young man with diamond cuff-links, sitting with a blue-haired matron who puffs on a small cigar. Ratso waves jauntily at the young man, raising his thumb and forefinger in a circle, leaving the young man baffled as Ratso hurries Joe on. 
RATSO Him I placed with O'Daniel just two weeks ago. And look. Not much of a stud either, what I hear... 
EXT. CENTRAL PARK SOUTH - COCKTAIL HOUR 
Ratso automatically checks the coin return boxes of the phone booths they pass. Walking the park side of the street, looking across at the limousines and taxis waiting outside luxury hotels and apartment buildings. 
JOE Hey, listen, how about you take me to mee this Mister O'Diddle bird right now? 
RATSO Well, Joe, you're a nice guy, and I'd be doing you both a favor, but why? What'm I dragging my bum leg all over town for? It's no picnic and what for, for me myself, what? 
Ratso stops opposite the Plaza hotel, pointing across at an aristocratic blonde stepping out of a Rolls Royce. 
RATSO (CONT'D) Tomorrow when some piece like that's scratching your back in a Fifth Avenue townhouse, where'll your pal Rizzo be? Nedicks. 
JOE Hold it, just hold it. You think I'm that kinda sombitch? Just name your cut, whatever you want, you got it right now. Five? Ten, how's that? 
Joe peels a ten from his wallet and offers it to Ratso. 
RATSO Joe, please. You know what I'd ask anyone else? Oh hell, tell you what I'll do, I'll take the ten... (he does) ... but when I hand you over to Mr. O'Daniel, I'll have to have another ten, Joe; just to like cover expenses... 
INT. PUBLIC PHONE BOOTH - DUSK 
Ratso is on the phone. Joe holds the door open, listening. 
RATSO This boy is just your meat, Mr. O'Daniel, believe it, I'm telling you -- what? -- Enrico Rizzo from the Bronx. The point is he needs you. Right now. Tonight... (aside to Joe) I got his tongue hanging out... 
EXT. WEST SIDE HOTEL - DUSK 
Camera moves slowly up the anonymous wall of a drab hotel, following the line of dim red lights marking the fire exits. 
RATSO'S VOICE Name's Joe Buck. Cowboy. Just in from Texas, don't know the ropes, new to the city, but very promising material, sir, and ready, if you get what I mean. Fabulous. Right away. What's that room number there again? 
INT. WEST SIDE HOTEL ELEVATOR - DUSK 
As ancient open cage lift rises at the same pace as camera in preceding shot. Joe grins excitedly at Ratso, who nods but glances significantly at the elevator operator. Ratso follows Joe to door as the operator grinds to a stop. 
INT. WEST SIDE HOTEL CORRIDOR - DUSK 
Ratso steps out with Joe, gesturing to the corridor... 
RATSO Hold it a second... 
... but the operator slams the door and starts on up. Ratso leans heavily on the down button, glancing at Joe. 
RATSO (CONT'D) Nine-oh-one, got it? 
O'DANIEL Money from home, see, there's your strength, you put things in earthy terms any man can understand, son. I warn you I'm gonna use you, I'm gonna run you ragged! 
Joe laughs, driving an obscene uppercut into the air. O'Daniel laughs with him. 
O'DANIEL (CONT'D) You're a wonderful boy. You'n me gonna have fun, dammit, it don't have to be joyless. Say, why don't we get right down on our knees now? 
JOE Get down -- where? 
O'DANIEL Right here, why not? I prayed in saloons, I prayed in the street, I prayed an the toilet. He don't care where, what He wants is that prayer. 
O'Daniel drops on all fours, crawling to find the plug of an electric cord. He shoves it into a wall socket, switches off the overhead light and suddenly a hollow, tinted plastic Jesus glows on the dresser. O.S. a revivalist congregation sings. And now we notice, with Joe, placards and flags, horns and tracts, all the paraphernalia of a street corner evangelist. 
JOB Shee-it... 
O'DANIEL That's the ticket, just open your heart and let it flow. It ain't the words, it's the love beyond 'em! 
EXT. REMEMBERED BAPTISM - ANOTHER TIME 
Sally Buck sings with the congregation while a rawboned preacher stands in the river, preparing to immerse little Joe. 
O'DANIEL'S VOICE Don't fight it, boy! 
INT. WEST SIDE HOTEL ROOM - DUSK 
O'Daniel tries to pull Joe down beside him. 
O'DANIEL Pray and you shall be heard! 
EXT. REMEMBERED BAPTISM - ANOTHER TIME 
Camera becomes little Joe, glimpsing the fevered faces of Sally Buck and the congregation singing on the riverbank, just before being plunged under the river. O'Daniel's voice reechoes, filtered through water. 
O'DANIEL Don't be frightened, son! 
EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT 
Joe runs in aimless panic, pushing through the crowd, pursued by O'Daniel's voice and the singing congregation. 
O'DANIEL Don't run from Jesus! 
Joe stops short as he sees the front page of a tabloid on a newsstand. There is a picture of Joe being led away by two deputies, under a headline ALABAMA MURDERER SHOTGUNS ELEVEN. 
EXT. FORTY-SECOND STREET - NIGHT 
Joe searches the faces of the crowd, running forward suddenly as he sees Jackie and the farmboy picked up by two men in a large convertible. Joe chases the car to Eighth Avenue but stops, frightened as he sees himself in multiple image on the front of every newspaper displayed on a newsstand. 
INT. EVERETT'S BAR - NIGHT 
The saloon is almost empty during the after dinner lull. The BARTENDER doesn't look up from his newspaper as Joe approaches. 
JOE Say, you know that runty little bastard I was with? 
BARTENDER I don't know nothing. 
Joe tenses as he sees the . tabloid picture of himself on the back of the bartender's paper. Joe's hand closes around an empty beer bottle, a terrible violence surging very near the surface. O.S. women scream. 
INT. REMEMBERED BEAUTY SALON - ANOTHER TIME 
Reflected in the mirror, we see little Joe wildly smashing bottles and glass display cabinets -- the voices of women screaming O.S. -- little Joe hurling a perfume bottle which shatters the mirror and his own image. 
INT. EVERETT'S BAR - NIGHT 
The empty beer bottle stands where it was. Joe has disappeared. On the TV screen over the bar, sound drowned out by the jukebox, we see a blowup of the tabloid photograph, revealing a young man very similar to, but clearly not Joe. 
EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT 
INT. TIMES SQUARE PALACE LOBBY - NIGHT 
Joe's image frozen -- as if another still photograph - standing at the desk, waiting for his key. 
JOE'S VOICE Key to 1014... 
Action continues as the DESK CLERK hands Joe a folded paper instead of a key. Joe opens it, deeply perplexed. 
DESK CLERK Looks like you been locked out of your room, buddy. Till you pick up your tab. 
JOE Uh, what about my things'n all? 
DESK CLERK We keep them nice and safe till you get this straightened out. 
INTERCUT 
Room 1014 warm and inviting, Joe's suitcase on the bed. 
JOE Listen, tell you what, you can keep all the rest of the goddam junk if you let me have just the suitcase. That suitcase means a lot to me. 
INTERCUT 
The postcard photograph marked X -- THIS IS ME. 
DESK CLERK We keep everything. House rules. 
EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT 
Joe stands outside the hotel, stunned, seeing the bright colored lights turn suddenly grey. The film continues in black and white as Joe walks into the crowd. 
EXT. SALLY BUCK'S BEAUTY SALON - DAY 
The FOR RENT sign flapping in the wind. 
INT. BAR - DAY 
Joe nurses a short beer, like the regulars. He looks up as a crippled panhandler approaches, vaguely reminiscent of Ratso. 
JOE Screw off. 
INT. ROOM 1014 - NIGHT 
The bed turned back, clean sheets, a soft night light. 
INT. BUS DEPOT - NIGHT 
Joe is stretched on a bench, his Stetson over his eyes. A loud speaker announces a bus "departing for Texas" but Joe does not move. A policeman taps Joe's boots with his night stick. Joe rises and starts away with mixed anger and apprehension. 
INT. PUBLIC MEN'S ROOM - DAY 
Two matching Ivy Leaguers exchange a glance as they see Joe washing his feet in the basin. Joe stares back with a belligerent grin. 
JOE Any objection, gentlemen? 
INT. ALL NIGHT CAFETERIA - NIGHT 
Joe balances a cup of coffee, walking past the other solitary night people, avoiding each other's eyes. Joe spots what he's looking for and seats himself next to a gaunt woman and her ten year old son, both freaked out, erratically touching things, themselves, each other in a futile effort to make contact with reality. But Joe is only concerned with the plastic-wrapped crackers left by their empty soup bowls. 
JOB Y'ain't gonna eat them? 
The woman stares at Joe blankly. The boy runs a toy mouse across the table, up his mother's arm and around her face. With a polite nod, Joe opens the crackers and squirts one with ketchup. Joe upsets his chair as a great gob of ketchup spills onto his pants... 
JOE Shee-it. 
... glancing around with an embarrassed laugh, but the only one looking is a cop, scratching his calf with a night stick. Joe keeps his back to the customers as he moves to the water dispenser, wets a paper napkin and tries to wipe away the stain. But the water has only spread the stain across his pants and down his leg. He blushes as a blonde young streetwalker giggles. 
JOE (controls fury) What you got in your pockets? 
Eagerly, the boy produces a family photograph, a subway token, a dirty handkerchief. Joe grabs his wrist, revealing a watch. 
JOE (CONT'D) How much's that worth? 
FAT BOY I can't go home without my watch! My mother'd die! She'd die! Take my books! Not my watch! She'd die! 
But Joe has already kicked open the door. Theremin voices drown out the Fat Boy, calling "Earthling, where are you?" 
INT. ALL NIGHT MOVIE - NIGHT 
Joe sprawls, trying to sleep, his feet on the balcony rail, the radio at his ear. On screen, once again, the Martian maiden moves through the spaceman, crying, but we hear the voice of a desperate woman on two-way radio. As she speaks, a policeman moves along the aisle, slapping his palm with his night stick. 
DESPERATE VOICE Bill, can I call you Bill, Mister Bonner? I feel like I know you from listening. What I called about, Bill, I'm gonna kill myself... 
EXT. SIXTH AVENUE - DAY 
From a high angle, only Joe's Stetson and radio can be seen above a passing bus, its side panel advertising BILL BONNER'S STRAIGHT LINE, A STRAIGHT TALK SHOW. 
BONNER'S VOICE Why call me, baby? If you want to do it; just do it, don't talk about it. Are we drunky? Feeling a little sorry for ourselves maybe? 
Joe appears in full figure as the bus passes. He stands looking at the suitcases in a luggage shop window. 
DESPERATE VOICE Well, Bill, what I got thinking, I didn't want the neighbors to have to find me, this young couple with the boy I want to have my cat, see, Bill? 
INT. RADIO STATION - DAY 
BONNER, tough in a grey crew-cut, talks on the phone. 
BONNER Okay, baby, now listen, just hold on while I leave the line for a minute. And think about all the kids that are dying overseas for you, okay, baby? Got that? I'll be back in exactly sixty seconds. After this message from... 
A taxi born blasts, interrupting the sponsor's message. 
EXT. SIXTH AVENUE - DAY 
Joe's fist slams a fender violently, using Ratso's fake injury trick to stop traffic, running across the street toward... 
EXT. NEDICK'S - DAY 
... Ratso staring out at Joe, paralyzed in the act of lighting a cigarette -- intercut in flashing close-ups -- Joe outside the window, Ratso inside -- reflecting their conflicting emotions -- Joe's murderous rage -- Ratso's panic -- one almost subliminal flash of each revealing something like pleasure at finding a long-lost friend... 
INT. NEDICK'S - DAY 
... Ratso staring up into camera, holding his breath. 
RATSO Don't hit me, I'm a cripple. 
Joe's hand falls on Ratso's shoulder. 
JOE Oh, I ain't gonna hit you, I'm gonna strangle you to death... 
The cigarette in Ratso's mouth burns into his lip. He jerks spasmodically, choking on smoke as he rips skin away with the butt and drops it in his coffee cup. 
JOE (CONT'D) ... only first I'm gonna turn you upside down and shake you out right here and now. 
Coughing, eyes tearing, Ratso empties his pockets on the counter, finally producing: sixty-four cents, a few sticks of gum, an almost empty cigarette package, a book of matches and two pawn tickets. He raises his eyes, somehow ashamed. Joe kicks the toe of Ratso's loafer. 
JOE What's in your socks? 
RATSO Not a cent, I swear to God, I swear on my mother's eyes. 
Ratso removes his loafers and shakes them, glancing at the counter man. His socks don't even conceal his toes. Disgusted, Joe shoves Ratso's small pile back at him. 
RATSO (CONT'D) You keep the sixty-four cents. I want you to have it. 
Joe lies on his cot, watching Ratso struggle to penetrate the fibrous husk of a coconut, experimenting with a variety of rusty tools in an old cigar box. 
RATSO The two basic items necessary to sustain life are sunshine and coconut milk. That's a known fact. If I can find the goddam hole the milk squirts out. 
JOE This is an okay setup you got here, but I'd say you ain't just exactly, uh, flush, is that right or not? 
RATSO I been sick. Hold this, will ya? 
Joe takes his time rising to hold the coconut while Ratso tries to poke a hole with a bent ice-pick. 
RATSO (CONT'D) In Florida, they come smooth, ready to eat. Down there, your only problem is, diet-wise, you gotta lift an arm to wipe warm milk off your chin. Tough, hey? 
JOE I think finding you's the smartest thing I ever did, for both of us. You just the crooked kinda sneaky little sidewinder I need to get me hustling in this town. Hey! 
Joe jerks his hand away just in time to avoid the ice-pick. The coconut bounces on the floor. Ratso picks it up, holds it, while Joe tries to crack it, swinging his boot like a hammer. 
RATSO Miami Beach is the only place for a real hustler. Florida has more rich chicks per square yard than any resort spot in the world. They lie out in their pagodas and pergolas waiting to grab the first jockstrap that passes. 
JOE What's all this sweet talk about Florida? Your friend O'Daniel got a stable down there now? 
Joe swings violently. Ratso yelps, hopping on his one good leg, sucking his thumb. 
RATSO Cowboy killers! Break my finger, Christ! I got news for you, baby, no chick with any class buys that big dumb cowboy crap... 
Ratso holds his thumb under the tub-sink faucet. 
RATSO (CONT'D) ... the cowboy bit's out, except among fags of a certain type, which take a certain, type hustler to exploit. Like I could handle it -- being a stealing operation basically -- but take your average fag, very few of them want a cripple. 
Joe holds the coconut like Yorick's skull, thinking hard.* 
JOE Well, I am dumb, that's for sure. I don't talk right. I can't think too good. Just only one thing I ever been good for's loving. Women go crazy for me. Fact. Crazy Annie. Had to send her away. So I don't cash in on that, what am I? I'm shee-it. May's well flush me down that hole with the dishwater. 
Joe sets the coconut on the floor, holding it with both hands while he tries to smash it with the heel of his boot. 
JOE (CONT'D) That's why you gonna stop crapping about Florida and get your skinny butt moving to earn twenty bucks worth of management you owe me... 
INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY 
The suitcase lies open, displaying Joe's wardrobe. 
JOE'S VOICE Make that twenty-three bucks. 
INT. X FLAT - DAY 
Joe slams his heel down. The coconut shoots out from under him and he lands on his ass. 
RATSO Look at yourself, Joe, no offense, but frankly, you're beginning to smell. For a stud in this town that's a handicap. 
JOE You talk like a man with a tin twat. 
Ratso sets the coconut on the window sill, balancing it as he raises the X window. 
RATSO You ain't got a chance in hell. You need threads and glitter, baby. A front, hey? 
JOE Well, uh, my manager's gonna manage all that crap, or else he gonna get a coconut up his flue. 
Joe slams, the window down. The coconut flies down to crash O.S. on the sidewalk below. 
EXT. SIDEWALK - DAY 
An alley cat laps up the milk of the broken coconut. 
EXT. TIMES SQUARE - FANTASY 
Joe stands naked in the middle of traffic. A siren shrills. Anastasia, catatonic in a hospital smock, moves toward Joe like a sleepwalker, passing through him. 
The Mutual of New York tower flashes MONY. 
INT. CORNER PHONE BOOTH - DUSK 
Ratso consults the memo as he speaks into the phone. 
RATSO Mr. McNeill, I'm calling for Miss Beecham at the Barbizon Hotel for Women. She won't need you tonight... 
EXT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT 
A doorman helps a young lady into a limousine. 
RATSO'S VOICE Would you believe a whole goddam hotel with nothing but lonely chicks? 
Joe and Ratso watch from across the street. 
RATSO Score once in that setup, the way chicks talk, Christ... 
Joe cracks his gum, tilts his hat, starts across the street. 
RATSO (CONT'D) Get the money! Remember Cass Trehune? Cash! These rich bitches write a check at night, call the bank and stop payment in the morning. Get the cash! 
In Ratso's eyes -- as Joe enters the hotel -- its facade suddenly wipes away to reveal rich ladies in negligee waiting in every room. 
INT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT 
Joe starts up the stairs, two at a time. A BELLHOP grabs him. 
BELLHOP Hey! No men upstairs! 
EXT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT 
Ratso warms his hands at a chestnut vendor's cart, seeing... 
... zoom close-up, a lady in a window grabbing Joe. 
INT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT 
Joe picks up a house phone, watched by the Bellhop. 
EXT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT 
Ratso sees Joe zip from room to room in wild animation. 
INT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT 
The lobby watches Joe blow a gum bubble at the elevator. 
EXT. EXCLUSIVE DRESS SHOP - NIGHT 
Staring at a window display of Florida sportswear, Ratso's imagination soars, seeing... 
EXT. FLORIDA BEACH FRONT - FANTASY 
... Ratso, like a model in a travel poster, in gaudy sport shirt, talking on the phone against a background of hotels... 
... Ratso like James Bond, surrounded by bikinis, dictating while girls serve coconut milk and massage his game leg... 
... Ratso like George Raft, in evening clothes, running a posh casino, flicking a coin... 
... Ratso simply himself, dressed as he is, sitting on the beach, at peace in the sun... 
... the same identical picture with Joe sitting beside Ratso. 
INT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT 
Ratso leans over the tub-sink, dry-heaving while he coughs, wearing a sheepskin coat much too large for him. He controls the cough with effort -- hearing the door open and close O.S. -- wipes his mouth and turns to grin at... 
... Joe, trying to light the empty Sterno can, deliberately ignoring Ratso. Ratso shrugs, washes his mouth at the faucet, finds a cigarette butt and lights it, careful to avoid inhaling the first puff. 
JOE Shee-it. Cough yourself inside out, then light a fag, a goddam fag. You make me puke. Where'd you steal it? In the movies? 
RATSO The coat? A guy I did a favor once gave it to me. Christ. 
JOE Who'd you ever do a favor for? You just let some poor bastard freeze to death, wouldn't you? 
Joe slams ten dollars on the table. Ratso glances at Joe with curious concern. 
RATSO Where'd that come from? 
JOE Forty-second Street. Where'n hell you think it come from? 
RATSO You wanna know the truth? You dumb bastard, I got it for you. Look at it. Goddam thing's ten sizes too big for me. 
Ratso pulls off the coat and throws it at Joe. 
JOE Wear it yourself. I wouldn't put it on my back. 
Joe throws it back at Ratso. 
RATSO Goddamned if I'll wear it! 
Ratso hurls it in a corner. Joe shoves the ten at Ratso. 
JOE Go get your medicine. Before you die on my goddam, hands... 
EXT. EAST RIVER BRIDGE - DAY 
High angle -- Joe and Ratso cross an foot, chilled by wind, neither wearing the sheepskin coat. The Queens riverfront and factories appear cold and bleak, deserted on Sunday. 
EXT. LONG ISLAND CEMETERIES - DAY 
Camera moves into acres of tombstones, piled like low-rent housing projects for the dead, the various faiths segregated by crumbling boundaries. 
JOE'S VOICE Shee-it. I hate boneyards. 
RATSO'S VOICE So split. He ain't your goddam, father. 
EXT. PROTESTANT CEMETERY - DAY 
Ratso leads Joe past a Negro family at a grave -- glances around -- snatches an elaborate floral piece from a headstone and hides it under his black raincoat as he darts toward a low dividing wail and swings himself over into... 
EXT. CATHOLIC CEMETERY - DAY 
... an endless section of plain stone markers. Joe touches his hat to two nuns, guiltily hurrying to overtake Ratso at ibis father's grave, indistinguishable from the other graves except for the name on the headstone. Ratso places the floral piece on the grave with almost absurd solemnity. Joe laughs. 
JOE Kee-rist, you sure are one twisty little bastard, Ratso. 
RATSO The name's Rico, at my own father's grave, a man deserves some respect. 
JOE Respect shee-it! You even steal flowers for his grave. 
RATSO Can he smell the difference, eh? 
Joe reads from the ribbon on the floral display. 
JOE Well, uh, he dam well know he ain't 'be-loved Aunt Winifred'. 
RATSO He can't read. Even dumber than you. Couldn't write his own name. X -- that's what it ought to say there on that goddam headstone. One big lousy X like our flat. Condemned. By order of City Hall. 
Joe is frowning, standing at the,headstone, momentarily depressed with an undefined sorrow. 
HANSEL'S VOICE We want you, Joe. You've been chosen. 
... five youths stand beside the sarcophagus -- two sailors, two cycle freaks, a weight-lifter -- waiting to be pallbearers. Joe joins them. All lights and cameras are turned on the slow funeral procession, carrying the flower girl out of the loft to the tune of "Moonlight and Roses". Strobe light adds to the unreality of the scene... 
SHIRLEY'S VOICE I had a thing for him. Before I knew. Why should knowing make it more of a thing? 
... Shirley talks to Gretel as she photographs the funeral. 
SHIRLEY Naturally I'll have to ask myself why a cowboy? And why a cowboy whore? But not tonight. 
INT. MACALBERTSON LANDING - NIGHT 
Shirley is pulling her coat out of the pile on the bannister. 
SHIRLEY Incidentally, how much is this going to cost me anyway? 
Joe turns to Ratso, whose attention is fixed on the coats. 
JOE Tell her, Ratso. 
RATSO Twenty bucks... 
SHIRLEY Sold. Let's go. 
RATSO ... and taxi fare for me. 
SHIRLEY Get lost. 
RATSO I agree. And for that service I charge one dollar taxi fare. 
She takes a dollar from her purse and hands it to Ratso, takes Joe's arm and starts down the stairs. Ratso lingers, starting quickly through the coats, frisking them for loose change. 
INT. LOFT BUILDING LOBBY - NIGHT 
At the foot of the stairs, Shirley kisses Joe violently. 
SHIRLEY Your name's Joe. Which is fabulous. Joe could be anyone. Kiss me, Joe, move over, Joe, go away, Joe. It's just perfect. 
They glance up as Ratso appears, swinging down too rapidly on the bannister. He misses a step and falls -- a clown's fall, unable to stop but apparently not hurting himself. Shirley and Joe are laughing when Ratso lands at the foot of the stairs. 
SHIRLEY (CONT'D) He fell. Hey, fella, you fell. Is he all right? 
RATSO (rises, mimics) Is he all right! 
JOE Well, if you're awright, why you hanging on the bannister. Can you walk or not? 
RATSO Walk? Naturally I can walk. 
SHIRLEY He's got taxi fare. 
JOE Sure you're all right? 
RATSO (shouts) I said yeah! Yeah, yeah, yeah! 
INT. TAXICAB - NIGHT 
Joe and Shirley are kissing. Shirley rolls away, flushed, fanning herself. Joe rolls down the window. 
EXT. VILLAGE STREET - NIGHT 
Joe leans out of the taxi window, waving his Stetson, bellowing at the snow. 
JOE Whoopee ti yi yo...! 
EXT. LOFT BUILDING - NIGHT 
JOE Cut it out. That's cheating, teasing me so I can't think. Just one bitsy Y word and I gonna beat you! 
SHIRLEY You gonna beat me, Joe? 
JOE Beat your butt, you don't lemme think! 
SHIRLEY Gay ends in Y. Fey. You like that -- gay fey -- is that your problem? 
JOE I show you what problem -- 
But the end of his sentence is swallowed by Shirley, taking his kiss in her open mouth, crushed by its impact, an animal noise snarling deep in her throat -- the agonized alley cat wail of pleasure -- Joe's problem is solved. Joe's love theme swells triumphant. At the same time, Shirley half-rises, trying to force Joe's head down, her own on top. The issue is joined. Shirley has named the game. Her objective is to force Joe onto his back. Joe's objective is to retain his initiative. Camera ignores the classic action on the central front, concentrating exclusively on peripheral tactical maneuvers... 
... Joe's elbows pinning her shoulders... 
... her eyes bright, accepting the challenge... 
... his tight smile revealing clenched teeth... 
... her fingers searching out then tickling his underarm... 
... Joe laughing as he falls lopsidedly... 
... Shirley laughing triumphantly... 
... his hand closing on her wrist... 
... her talon-nails clawing the air... 
... her toes walking up his calf... 
... her legs suddenly locking around his knees... 
... her free hand grabbing his hair... 
... her shoulder rising as she forces his head back... 
... her lips pressing down on his... 
... his hand swatting an unidentified mass of flesh... 
... her eyes popping, teeth clamping his ear lobe... 
... his hand catching her ankle... 
... her teeth losing the ear lobe as she screams... 
... her foot appearing upside down beside her face... 
... her talon-nails furrowing flesh, drawing blood... 
... his head rearing back, roaring... 
... both rolling to the floor, out of view... 
... her feet suddenly flying up into view... 
... her hand tugging rhythmically at the blanket... 
... her other hand wildly exploring Joe's back... 
... her ankles locking spasmodically... 
... her eyes and mouth wide, gaping... 
... the blanket suddenly ripping free, flying into the air as her arm flings itself around Joe... 
RATSO What'll happen. I mean what they do to, you know, do with you -- if you can't -- ah, Christ! 
JOE Who? 
RATSO I don't know. Cops. Or the -- how should I know? 
Ratso is trembling so violently that the sou, starts to slop over. Joe takes it and sets it on the table. 
JOE Okay. Here it is. You gonna go see the doctor. I got nine bucks and twenty more Thursday and I gonna be riding high before you know it. So you gonna get you the best goddam doctor in this town and get yourself straightened out, that's what. 
RATSO No doctors. No, sir. Not me. Doctors are like goddam auto mechanics. Fix one-thing, unplug another. Operate for piles and while they're there, they unscrew your liver. My old man, for God's sake, wasn't any sicker'n I am when he went to the doctor. 
JOE Well, just exactly what the hell you think you're gonna do? Die on me? 
RATSO I'm going to Florida, that's my only chance. 
JOE You know what's wrong with you? You got fevers. You kinky as a bedbug. How you gonna get to Florida? 
RATSO I'll find the money. If you just get me on the bus, that's all I ask. 
JOE Just when everything's going my way, you gotta pull a stunt like this. 
RATSO I don't even want you to go. Whaddya think of that? I got other plans for my life than dragging around some dumb cowboy that thinks he's God's gift to women. One twenty-buck trick and he's already the biggest stud in New York City. It's laughable. 
Joe sets his Stetson on his head. 
JOE When I put you on that bus down to Florida tonight, that'll be the happiest day of my life! 
INT. PHONE BOOTH - DAY 
Joe strikes a match with his thumbnail and watches it curl away while he waits, hearing a phone ring. Then the phone is answered by a woman's voice. 
JOE Hey, Shirley... Miss who? Oh, yeah, well, when will Missus Gardner be home? ... I'm a friend of hers, a goddam good friend... Shee-it, I can't wait till then... 
Joe hangs up while the answering service's voice is still talking. The match has burned out. Joe flips it away. 
INSERT 
Headline -- WALTER P. BOX TAKES NEW YORK BY SURPRISE. 
EXT. TIMES SQUARE - DUSK 
Joe loiters outside a gag headline print shop, his eyes following a man in homburg and chesterfield. 
EXT./INT. METROPOLE - DUSK 
Joe lingers momentarily, identifying with the violence in a jazz drummer, his eyes searching for a pickup. 
INT. ARCADE - DUSK 
Joe tests his skills in a shoot-down with a large metal cowboy and kills him, a recorded voice sneaks, "Got me!" as the cowboy slumps. Joe glances off as he hears polite applause... 
TOWNY'S VOICE Bravo... 
... TOWNY -- a stout, round-faced man -- clasps Joe's hand between both of his own, like an old friend. 
TOWNY How are you? (more quietly) Townsend P. Locke, from Chicago. Call me Towny. I'm here to attend a paper manufacturers' convention and, frankly, to have a little fun, dammit... 
Towny grips Joe's elbow, almost forcibly leading him away. 
EXT. SIDE STREET WEST OF BROADWAY - DUSK 
Towny's face appears huge at Joe's shoulder. 
TOWNY This is my first night in town and I'll consider it a ghastly omen clouding my entire ten days, if you don't consent to have dinner with me. Anywhere you like... 
Joe is rehearsing the speech in the bathroom mirror. 
JOE Well, he is, he's sicker'n shee-it. And I've gotta get him South quick as I can... 
INT. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL - DAY 
Joe stands in a long line, glancing impatiently at the clock while Ratso waits on a bench, wrapped in his blanket. 
INT. TOWNY'S BEDROOM-SITTING ROOM - NIGHT 
Towny is stretched out on the couch, staring morosely. 
TOWNY I was so childish with her. 
Joe moves into frame past camera, standing in front of him, so that we can see the scene from behind Joe's waist. 
JOE What d'you want? 
TOWNY What? 
JOE What you got me up here for? 
TOWNY Oh, difficult, it's so difficult. You're a nice person, Joe -- I should never have asked you up -- a lovely person. Oh, how I loathe life. I loathe it. Please go. Please. 
JOE You want me to leave? 
TOWNY No, yes. No, I mean yes please go. Help me to be good. Come back tomorrow. Promise. 
JOE I'm going to Florida. 
TOWNY This is terrible. I meet someone who -- then -- wait, I want to give you a present. For your trip. You'll let me please... 
INT. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL - DAY 
Joe's face is expectant, next in line at the ticket window. He nods reassuringly toward Ratso. 
INT. TOWNY'S BEDROOM-SITTING ROOM - NIGHT 
Joe's face is puzzled then angry as Towny takes a Saint Christopher medal from his sack and hands it to Joe. His eyes are looking past Joe, his speech out of sync. 
TOWNY Please take it. You don't have to be Catholic. Saint Christopher is the patron saint of all travelers. I want you to have it. For helping me be good. 
INT. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL - DAY 
It's Joe's turn. The clerk looks at him expectantly. 
INT. TOWNY'S BEDROOM-SITTING ROOM - NIGHT 
Joe's voice is angry. 
JOE Listen, I gotta have money. 
TOWNY Oh. Yes. Of course. I should have thought. You shouldn't have to ask. That was thoughtless of me. Yes. Wait here... 
Towny hurries across the room to the bedside table. Beside the telephone is a picture of a prosperous pioneer woman wearing a hearing-aid. Towny tries to conceal his movements as he takes a wallet from the drawer, lifts out a bill and tucks the wallet back and turns -- terrified to see Joe close behind him -- almost knocking the lamp off the table in his fright. Pressed against the table, protecting but calling attention to his wallet, Towny holds out the bill. 
TOWNY (CONT'D) Here. Don't even thank me. 
JOE (takes the bill) I gotta have more'n ten. I gotta have fifty-seven dollars. 
TOWNY I simply don't have it, Joe. 
JOE Get outta my way. 
TOWNY You're wasting your time. There's nothing in there. 
The bus tires sing as it speeds South. 
INT. GREYHOUND BUS - DAY 
Joe and Ratso have reversed places, putting Ratso by the window. Joe watches a middle-aged couple try on their new straw hats, unaware that Joe is watching them. 
RATSO You get your first palm tree in South Carolina. 
JOE How'n hell a dumb Bronx kid like you know that? 
RATSO I read it. 
JOE Shee-it. You believe all you read? 
EXT. BRIDGE - NIGHT 
The metal grating rings as the bus soars onto it. 
INT. GREYHOUND BUS - NIGHT 
Two aging young ladies in brand-new resort wear are casually examining Joe, along with the other men on the bus, but Joe is frowning at Ratso, who shivers despite the bright sun. 
JOE If you have to shiver, why don't you pull the blanket up more? 
RATSO I been thinking. I hope we're not gonna have a lotta trouble about my name down there. Because like what's the whole point of this trip anyway? 
JOE Keep the goddam blanket on. 
RATSO I mean New York's one thing, but can you see this guy, imagine it, running around the goddam beach all suntan and he's going in swimming, like, and then somebody yells 'Hey, Ratso' -- how does that sound to you? 
JOE Sounds like they knew you. 
RATSO Sounds like crap, admit it. And I'm not gonna have it. I'm Rico all the time, okay, do you blame me? That's agreed, okay? We're gonna tell all these new people my name's Rico? 
Joe nods. Ratso closes his eyes, momentarily at peace. 
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAWN 
The bus passes a Florida hotel sign too swiftly to read it. 
INT. GREYHOUND BUS - DAWN 
Joe frowns in his sleep, awakens, lifts his Stetson to see Ratso wide awake, in misery, wiping tears from his eyes. 
JOE Hey -- whatsa matter? 
RATSO (barely audible) I'm wet. 
JOE You're what? 
RATSO I wet my pants! My seat's all wet. 
JOE Hell, don't cry about it! 
RATSO Here I am going to Florida and my leg hurts, my butt hurts, my chest hurts, my face hurts, and like that ain't enough, I gotta pee all over myself. 
Joe laughs suddenly, uncontrollably. 
RATSO (CONT'D) I'm falling apart, that's funny? 
JOE (nods, laughing) You just -- just -- what happened, you just had a little rest stop wasn't on the schedule. 
Ratso begins to laugh with Joe as if it were the funniest thing they'd ever heard. Then Ratso's face pales as he starts to choke and cough. Joe pats him on the back. 
JOE (CONT'D) Hey, what size pants you wear? 
