MIDNIGHT IN PARIS 
Written by 
Woody Allen 
MONTAGE - POV SHOTS OF PARIS SET TO MUSIC We hear voices over - GIL and INEZ, a young couple of Americans, engaged to be married as we shall learn. (Standard locations are listed here but they will be determined later when we location scout. Music. 
EXT. MONET'S GARDENS - DAY 
GIL (V.O.) Or Paris when it's just getting dark - the lights go on - or at night - it's great at night - or no, sunset on the Champs Elysees - GIL (V.O.) Could you ever think of us moving here after we're married? CUT TO: 
EXT. TBD - DAY 
INEZ (V.O.) Oh god, no. I could never live out of the United States. And if I could it would be someplace totally different. GIL (V.O.) Like? INEZ (V.O.) I don't know, Hawaii. GIL (V.O.) Hawaii is America. INEZ (V.O.) Yes but it's - Hawaiian. GIL (V.O.) If I had stayed here and written novels and not gotten into grinding out movie scripts. INEZ (V.O.) Right, and becoming rich and successful. Tell me the sad story. GIL (V.O.) But this is where all the artists came to live, to work - the writers, the painters. INEZ (V.O.) That was ninety years ago. CONTD: GIL (V.O.) Boy, I'd drop the house in Beverly Hills, the pool, everything - in a heartbeat. Look - this is where Monet lived and painted - we're thirty minutes from town. Imagine the two of us settling here. If my book turns out we could do it - you could just as easily make jewelry here. CUT TO: 
EXT. MONET'S GARDENS - DAY 
INEZ (V.O.) You're in love with a fantasy. Now we CUT AROUND and see Gil and Inez live. GIL I'm in love with you. (kiss) CUT TO: 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT 
INEZ (as they do their nocturnal ablutions) I hope you're not going to be as anti-social tomorrow when we go to Versailles. GIL How was I anti-social? INEZ It was so clear you didn't want to go. GIL Well they're your friends and I can't say I'm as taken with him as you are. INEZ He's brilliant. I used to have such a crush on him at college. And Carol's very bright. GIL I find him a pseudo-intellectual. INEZ I hardly think the Sorbo nne would have him lecturing if he's a pseudo- intellectual. You should give him your novel to read. I'm sure he'd be able to critique your writing and show you why you're having so much trouble. 
GIL I'm having trouble because I'm a Hollywood hack who never gave actual literature a real shot. INEZ (said with her usual seductiveness) Gil, promise me if this book doesn't come off you'll give up beating your brains out and get back to what you do best. (MORE) CONTD: INEZ (cont'd) The studios adore you - you're in demand - I don't think you want to trade everything just to struggle. CUT TO: 
EXT. VERSAILLES - DAY 
Next day. The two couples are there and Paul waxes pedantically as they tour the grounds or inside. PAUL I believe Louis moved his court here in about 1682 - originally this was all swamp land - in fact, if I'm not mistaken, in old French the word Versailles means something like "terrain where the weeds have been pulled". The main structure is French classical style at its height - the work, I believe of Louis Le Vau, I think Mansart and Charles LeBrun I believe ··· CUT TO: 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
Gil walks street, obviously lost. 
EXT. LOVELY SPOT - NIGHT 
Gil wanders. Eventually he is at a lovely spot. Perhaps by the river, the bridge - or somewhere else but he's just wandering lost. Finally he looks at his watch. Either by his watch or a nearby building clock, the hands move to exactly midnight. perhaps midnight chimes somewhere. At precisely that moment a car happens to pull up along side him. Inside are TWO MEN and TWO WOMAN - elegant - they have champagne and glasses and they pour from the open bottle and drink happily. DOUG Come on - get in. GIL Huh? DENISE (speaking with French accent) Let's go, we're late. GIL You have the wrong person. DENISE Mais non, pas de tout - allez montez - GIL Look, I'm a little drunk - DOUG C'mon - for god's sake - we can't sit here all night. GIL This is a great old peugeot. I have a friend in Beverly Hills who has the same one - he collects - DENISE Let's go. (dragging him in) We have so many parties to go to. 18   CONTD:                                                    18 GIL What parties? DOUG a Venez - la prochain        gauche. DENISE Here - you need some champagne - Gil gets in.   They shut door and pull off. CUT TO: 
INT/EXT. CAR - NIGHT 
GIL (looks around, drinks it in) Hey lady, are you kidding me? ZELDA I know what you're thinking - this is boring - I agree - I'm ready to move on - let's do Bricktop's, Scott, I'm bored, he's bored, we're all bored. SCOTT Whatever you say, sweetheart. See if Cole and Linda want to come with. Coming? Gil stares open mouthed. CUT TO: 
INT/EXT. CAR - NIGHT                                            22 
Shot of group (Gil, Cole Porter, Fitzgeralds) piled into period open top car tearing down a Parisian street. (Note: we can include Denise and Doug or Phil if we want) CUT TO: 
INT. BRICKTOP'S CLUB - NIGHT 
The group is watching someone like Josephine Baker.     Gil is stunned by it all. The Fitzgerald's drink a lot. CUT TO: 
Helen, Inez and Gil in antique store. HELEN Come look at this Inez - wouldn't this be charming for a Malibu beach house? OWNER Dix-huit mille. HELEN (to Inez) It's a steal at eighteen thousand dollars. CONTD: 
GIL Eighteen thousand dollars? HELEN Oh wait, that's Euros so it's more - INEZ That's over twenty thousand dollars, Mom. HELEN Yes but it's very hard to find anything like this at home. INEZ She's right, Gil. GIL Yes but we haven't even found a house yet and I'm trying to keep expenses down so I can turn down jobs. HELEN You get what you pay for.     Cheap is cheap. GIL I know you love Malibu but - INEZ (sotto seductively) Did you ever make love in a chaise like this? Imagine the possibilities. GIL Er - of course when you think of it that way it does help amortize the eighteen grand. HELEN And don't forget - we're taking you to dinner tonight at (*tbd). INEZ Great. GIL (sotto to Inez) And after I have a terrific surprise for you. CONTD: (2) 
INEZ What?   I'm not big on surprises. GIL You will be. Believe me. HELEN Look at these marvelous Blackamoors. I see them in your living room. CUT TO:l 
EXT. LOVELY SPOT - NIGHT 
Gil and Inez arriving at the spot he was picked up by car. He waits nervously. INEZ Where are you taking me?   You made me rush through dinner. Dad wasn't finished with his profiteroles. GIL You're going on one of the most amazing adventures of your life. INEZ Where? And why are you carrying around your manuscript. GIL You'll see - you'll see - and your jaw will drop. DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. GERTRUDE STEIN'S PLACE - NIGHT A31                                                            A31 
Shot of them arriving at Gertrude Stein's. 
INT. GERTRUDE STEIN'S PLACE - NIGHT 
They enter. HEMINGWAY This is Gil Pender. He's a young American writer. I thought you two should know each other. STEIN I'm glad you're here. You can help decide which of us is right and which of us is wrong. She leads them into other room, introduces Gil. STEIN (CONT'D) This is Gil - GIL Pender. STEIN Pablo Picasso. They ad-lib greetings. Picasso speaks French and is with a beautiful girl - Adriana. CONTD: 
STEIN I was just telling Pablo that this portrait doesn't capture Adriana. It has universality but no objectivity. PABLO Vous ne le comprenez pas correctment. Vous ne connaissez pas Adriana mais c'est tout ce qui la represente. STEIN No tu n'a pas raison. Look how he's done her - dripping with sexual innuendo. Carnal to the point of smoldering and yes she's beautiful but it's a subtle beauty - an implied sensuality. (to Gil) What is your first impression of Adriana? GIL (very taken) ····· Exceptionally lovely. STEIN Belle, mais plus subtil plus implicite, Pablo. HEMINGWAY You're right Gertrude - of course you can see why he's lost his objectivity. (flirting with her) STEIN You've made a creation of Place Pigalle, a whore with volcanic appetites. PABLO Mais c'est comme elle est, si vous la connaissez. STEIN Yes - avec vous en prive - because she's your lover - but we don't know her that way - so you make a petit bourgeoise judgment and turn her into an object of pleasure. (MORE) CONTD: (2) STEIN (cont'd) C'est plus comme une nature morte qu'on portrait. It's more like a still life than a portrait. PABLO (waves her off and goes to get a drink) Je ne suis pas d'accord. STEIN (turning to Gil) And what about this book of yours I've been hearing about? (to Hemingway) Have you read it? HEMINGWAY No, this I leave to you. You've always been the best judge of my work. STEIN (thumbing first page, she reads) "Out of the Past was the name of the store and its products consisted of memories. What was prosaic and even vulgar to one generation had been transmuted by the mere passing of years to a status at once magical and also camp. " 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT 
Gil gets into bed with Inez. She's asleep and he lies awake thinking. He pinches himself to make sure he's awake. CONTD: 
GIL (to himself) I'm Gil Pender - I was with Hemingway and Picasso - Pablo Picasso - Ernest Hemingway - I'm Gil Pender from Pasadena - the Cub Scouts - I failed freshman English - I'm Gil Pender and my novel is with Gertrude Stein - I once worked at The House of Pies. I'm little Gil Pender. And that girl was so lovely. CUT TO: 
EXT. FLEA MARKET - DAY 
Gil, Inez and Helen. 
Gil is stunned. PAUL (CONT'D) If I'm not mistaken he painted this marvelous portrait of his French mistress Madeline Brissou in the twenties. GIL Er - I have to differ with you on this one. PAUL Really? INEZ Gil pay attention and you'll learn something. GIL If I'm not mistaken this was a failed attempt to capture a young French girl named Adriana - from Bordeaux - if my art history serves me - came to Paris to study costume design for the theatre. Believe she had a brief affair with Modigliani - then Braque - that's where Pablo met her - er Picasso. You'd never know it from this portrait but she's quite subtly beautiful. INEZ What have you been smoking? GIL And I'd hardly call the picture superb. It's more of a petit bourgeoise statement of how Pablo er Picasso sees her, saw her - he's distracted by the fact she was a volcano in the sack. CUT TO: 
INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT 
John, Helen and Inez finishing fancy dinner. JOHN Too rich for me. CONTD: 
HELEN Where did Gil run off to? INEZ Work - he likes to walk around Paris - the way the city is all lit up at night allegedly inspires him - It's okay. Paul and I are going dancing. HELEN Where's Carol? INEZ In bed with a bad oyster. (rising) See you later. Thanks for dinner Dad. 
She exits. JOHN Where does Gil go every night? HELEN You heard her. He walks and gets ideas. JOHN Uh-huh. HELEN You sound skeptical. JOHN I don't know. I see what he earns but sometimes I think he's got a part missing. And I didn't like his remark about tea party Republicans. They're decent people who want to take back the country - they're not crypto-fascist, airhead zombies. Did you hear him say that? HELEN Nevertheless I hardly think your idea of having him followed is practical. CONTD: (2) 
Adriana is showing him around. ADRIANA I can never decide whether Paris is more beautiful by day or by night. GIL There's no book or painting, or symphony or sculpture that can rival a great city. All these streets and boulevards as a special art form. (MORE) CONTD: GIL (cont'd) When you think in the cold, violent, meaningless universe Paris exists - these lights - I mean nothing's happening on Jupiter or Neptune or out beyond - but from way out in space you can see these lights in the whole dark void - the cafes, people drinking and dancing - I mean for all we know this town is the hottest spot in the entire universe - ADRIANA Vous avez l'ame d'un poete. GIL You're very kind. I would not call my babbling poetic. CUT TO: 
OMITTED 
EXT. PLACE PIGALLE - NIGHT 
Gil and Adriana are here with the street lined with prostitutes. ADRIANA See anything you like? GIL I'm ashamed to admit I'm attracted to all of them. I like cheap-sexy. I know it's shallow. ADRIANA When I was in Catholic school, one weekend, my roommate and I paid one of the girls of Pigalle to come teach us all her tricks. GIL Well, that's the most interesting thing I've ever heard in my life - I'd like to think about that for awhile. CUT TO: 
EXT. RIVER - NIGHT 
And she goes. He's stressed, thinks. Presently Salvador Dali comes to table. DALI We met earlier tonight.    At the party. GIL Yes - I remember - DALI Dali - si? Dali! Dali!      Une bouteille de vin rouge I waiter scurries for one. DALI (CONT'D) You like the shape of the rhinoceros? GIL A rhinoceros?    I never thought about it. DALI I paint rhinoceros. I paint you - sad eyes - big lips - melting over hot sand - with one tear - yes - and in your tear - Christ's face. And rhinoceros. GIL I'm sure I look sad. I'm in a very perplexing situation. DALI Everyone is in perplexing situation - to be or not to be - this is ultimate perplexing question - you agree? Ah - here they are - CONTD: (2) 
Bufiuel, Man Ray enter and the table enlarges as they sit. Dali introduces them to Gil. GIL My god, I own a surrealist print - only a print by Magritte. DALI Pender - Pen-der - Pen-derrr - and I am Da-li. Pender is in perplexing situation. GIL It sounds so crazy when I say it and you'll think I'm drunk but I've got to tell someone I'm from a different time - a whole other era - the future - and I pass from the two thousandth millennium to here - a car picks me up - I slide through time - MAN RAY Exactly correct - you inhabit two worlds - so far I see nothing strange. GIL Look, you're sur-realists - but I'm a normal guy - See, in one life I'm engaged to marry a woman I love - at least I think I love her. Christ, I'm supposed to love her if I'm marrying her. DALI Love - the word love - love - the word love - same as the word rhinoceros - the rhinoceros makes love by mounting the female - but is there difference in beauty between two rhinoceroses? MAN RAY But there is nothing more sur-real than the human heart. DALI Past is also present. CONTD: (3) 
GIL In a dream - which is fine for you because you guys dabble in dreams. MAN RAY There is another woman? GIL Adriana is her name. And I felt drawn to her - but it wouldn't matter - men much greater than me, profound artists - she's drawn to geniuses - and they to her. DALI I see you with Christ - he is smiling while you are crucified on the heavy wooden cross of self- doubt. GIL Of course my biggest problem is reality. BuNuEL Reality is nothing more than a dream - we all exist in the dream of a dog. GIL I was born in the wrong time. DALI Time is all the mind. Time melts - the watches melt - the hands of the clock melt ··· MAN RAY A man in love with a woman from a different era. I see a photograph. BuNuEL I see a movie. GIL I see an insurmountable problem. DALI I see - a rhinoceros. 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - DAY 
Next morning.   Room service breakfast. INEZ Did you get much work done last night? GIL Er - some - yes - I'm beginning to think my book may be too realistic - that I've missed some chances to let my imagination run wild and not be so damn logical ··· INEZ Shouldn't we be getting dressed? GIL C'mere - you always look great in the morning. INEZ (she does) We'll be late. GIL I have to work. I'm working like a demon but I can't resist you half dressed like that. 
OMITTED 
EXT. STREET/INT. BUILDING - DAY John walks down a street and enters a building. As he goes up the stairs we learn it is the office of a private detective agency. CUT TO: 
INT. AGENCY OFFICE - DAY 
John and M. DuBois, the head detective.     M. Tisserant, the second is present too. JOHN Here's his photo. I want to know where he goes each night. DUBOIS What is your suspicion? CONTD: 
JOHN He's engaged to my daughter - to marry and I want to be certain she's making a wise decision. Naturally discretion is paramount. DUBOIS You've come to the right place, monsieur. Monsieur Tisserant - will personally keep track of the gentleman and report back on his whereabouts at night. CUT TO: 
EXT. FRONT OF HOTEL - DAY 
Inez, her mother and father loading into car. HELEN Tell Gil to bring a suit because tomorrow night we'll be dining formal. Where's Gil. INEZ I forgot to tell you. Gil is not going with us to Mont St. Michel. JOHN Why not?   I don't understand it. INEZ He writes, he rewrites, he rewrites his rewrites. He says Picasso never left his studio. (MORE) CONTD: INEZ (cont'd) I said, Gil, you have absolutely nothing in common with Picasso ··· He just looks at me. HELEN Well he's going to miss a great weekend. CUT TO: 
OMITTED 
EXT. FLEA MARKET - DAY                                        55 
Gil browsing.   He listens to the old phonograph recordings. GIL Any Cole Porter? GABRIELLE Oh yes - I remember - he was your friend. GIL I was kidding you realize. GABRIELLE I did realize. You're a bit young. GIL I'm surprised you're so familiar with his work. GABRIELLE He wrote many songs about Paris - very beautiful. GIL Yes - he was in love with your hometown. You're a Parisiene? GABRIELLE Oui monsieur. GIL How much. GABRIELLE Dix-huit euro. CONTD: 
GUIDE (reading) That Paris exists and anyone could choose to live anywhere else in the world will always be a mystery to me. Turns pages. GUIDE (continuing) Dinner with Pablo and Henri Matisse. Pablo is the greater artist although Matisse is the greater painter. CONTD: GUIDE (continuing) Paris in the summer - what it must have been like to sit opposite one's lover at Maxim's in it's heyday. Pages are torn and text cuts off. GUIDE (continuing) I am in love with an American writer I just met named Gil Pender. His eyes widen. GUIDE (continuing) That immediate magic one hears about happened to me. I know that both Picasso and Hemingway are in love with me but for whatever inexplicable reasons the heart has, I am drawn to Gil. Perhaps because he seems naive and unassuming. GUIDE (continuing) As always in this sad life he is about to marry a woman named Inez. I had a dream where he came to me and brought me a little gift - earrings they were - and we made love. perhaps it is just as well I accept Hemingway's offer to go to Africa. Life with Pablo is too full of conflict and I am suffocating under his genius. Why I need to go from one brilliant man to another is my weakness. Gil is different, perhaps not a genius but not moody and selfish like Pablo or Amedeo was. I think a trip to Africa with Hemingway would help get these feelings for Gil off my mind. GUIDE (finished reading) I don't understand. What is this? CONTD: (2) 
GIL It's a little complicated to explain. Thanks for translating - GUIDE The writer clearly has feelings for this man Gil. That's your name, no? GIL She finds him no genius - naive and unassuming - that's not exactly dazzling. GUIDE To some women naivete is   endearing. And she's romantic. She    dreams of Belle Epoque Paris and a   gift of earrings and making love   with this man. 
Gil stares, thinking. CUT TO: 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT 
Gil is sprucing up. He douses himself with aftershave, checks clock. It's eleven PM. GIL (to himself) Eleven - let's see - where the hell am I going to get earrings at this hour? (thinks) I must improvise. He goes to Inez's jewelry box and picks out art nouveau earrings he knows Adriana would like. He grabs a box and gift wraps it quickly. Maybe it comes in a blue velvet box and he finds some colored paper. Gil writes card: To Adriana with love. He crosses it out - To Adriana avec amour. He gives a final check to himself and opens door to leave, running smack into Inez and both her parents, home from their trip prematurely. GIL Ohmigodl   What are you doing back? CONTD: 
Gil and Adriana at romantic locale.     He kisses her. ADRIANA What are you doing? GIL I don't know but I do know that for a brief moment, when I was doing it, I felt - immortal. ADRIANA But - you look so sad. GIL Because life is too mysterious for me. ADRIANA It's the time we live in. Everything moves so fast - life is noisy and complicated - not like the Belle Epoque. In those years Paris lived only for beauty. GIL I've always been a logical person. I never took chances - did anything crazy - like move here when I first came or take a shot at being a real writer, not a Hollywood hired hand - but I feel like letting everything go. Gil gives her earrings. CaNTO: 
GIL Here. ADRIANA How remarkable - they're beautiful. 
A horse and carriage pulls up. DIDIER Monsieur, mademoiselle - on y vas. ADRIANA What?   Who are you? CHLOE Montez. On y vas.      Nous allons etre en retard. GIL What's going on? They get in. ADRIANA Where are we going? DIDIER To drink champagne. DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. MAXIMS - NIGHT 
They pull up at Maxims. People from the Belle Epoque enter and exit. ADRIANA This is so beautiful. ADRIANA (CONT'D) All those pictures I've seen of Belle Epoque Paris. We're herel - GIL I don't know what it is about this city but I must write a thank you note to the chamber of commerce. 
INT. MOULIN ROUGE/AUDIENCE - NIGHT 
Gil and Adriana sit and hold hands.   Dance ends and girls run off. CONTD: 
ADRIANA (to waiter) Encore du vin. Le meme chose. (to Gil) Isn't this something. Lookl Look I She points out Lautrec sketching. ADRIANA Pablo worships him. I have to say hello. Come with me, I'm nervous. GIL We shouldn't bother him. ADRIANA But we know he's a lonely man ··· he longs for company. They go over.   She speaks to Lautrec. ADRIANA We're both great admirers of your work. Nous sommes tout les deux de grands admirateurs de votre travail. LAUTREC Merci madame. ADRIANA Pouvons nous vous offrir un verre? LAUTREC J'en serai enchante mademoiselle. Prenez un siege je vous en prie. ADRIANA He's asking us to sit down with him. GIL This much French I know. LAUTREC Etes vous Americain? GIL I'm American. Oui - LAUTREC Je l'ai devine a votre accent. CONTD: (2) 
ADRIANA Nous aimons, tous les vos dessins et peintures, en realite tout ce que vous faites. GIL Yes, I love your pictures too. LAUTREC (welcomes two new men to table) Oh - puis-je vous presenter mes amis ··· Monsieur Degas and Monsieur Gauguin. ADRIANA Ohmigoodness - hello - enchante - (ad-lib hellos best they can) (to Gil) Isn't this thrilling? You see the sketch he's made? Nobody can draw like that today - not Pablo, not Matisse - We see fine drawing, Lautrec style. GIL Parlez Anglais? DEGAS No monsieur. LAUTREC (referring to Gauguin) 11 parle un petit peut. GAUGUIN I speak well - je parle tres bien. DEGAS (scornfully over Gauguin's boasting) Ah- GAUGUIN Degas and I were just talking about how - cette generation est depourvue de sens et mangue d'imagination. CONTD: (3) 
ADRIANA He says they find this generation sterile and empty - GAUGUIN La Renaissance est beaucoup mieux - better to have lived during the Renaissance. ADRIANA No - this is the Golden Age - L'Age D'or. DEGAS Pas do tout - la Renaissance - c'etait mieux - leur vetements sont tres, tres modernes, tres originaux. ADRIANA He says your clothes are very modern and original. GIL Er - yes - Monsieur Lauren - Ralph. (to Gauguin) Shouldn't you be in Tahiti? GAUGUIN I? What? Yes - I live on the island - a much better life than here - better there - but then I miss Paris - up and back - Qu'est que vous faites dans la vie? ADRIANA What do I do? Je suis etudiante. En haute couture - fashion designer but studying - DEGAS Ah ga compte pour les vetements outrageux. 
STEIN He finds it hard to believe the protagonist doesn't see his fiancee is having an affair that's going on right before his eyes. GIL with - STEIN The other character - the pedantic one - GIL It's called denial. Thanks again. (to passing poet) You're Ezra Pound right? T.S. Eliot says you owe him forty francs. CUT TO: 
INT. HOTEL SUITE - DAY 
Gil back in present in mid-argument with Inez. 
INEZ You're crazy - Paul and me? Where did you get such an insane notion? GIL From Ernest Hemingway. He thought it out and it makes perfect sense. INEZ Gil, your brain tumor's acting up again. GIL There's nothing crazy about Ernest Hemingway or Gertrude Stein or Fitzgerald or Salvador Dali - INEZ Nothing except they've all been dead for years. GIL It was William Faulkner who said, the past is not dead. (MORE) 72   CONTD:                                             72 GIL (cont'd) In fact, it's not even past. Actually I ran into Bill Faulkner at a party. INEZ You're a raving lunatic. GIL I guess I'm too trusting. I'm jealous and also trusting - cognitive dissonance, Scott Fitzgerald speaks of it. INEZ Gil - GIL I know it Inez - you can fool me but not Hemingway. INEZ Jesus Christ I'm dealing with a madman - okay - Paul and I had a few nights alone. We danced, we drank - you were always working - he's very attractive, he spoke to me in French - the whole mystique of this corny city got to me - it's over. We can put this all in perspective at home. GIL I'm not going back. INEZ What? GIL I'm staying here. It's not the romantic fling. Paris is Paris. It's that I'm not in love with you. INEZ What? GIL A lot has happened    to me since we got here. I won't     begin to bore you - but - I know    what that feeling of love is    and it's not us. CONTD: (2) 
INEZ Have you met someone else?      All those late night walks. GIL I was attracted to another woman but it was the whole deal - meeting Gertrude Stein and Hemingway and Dali and Scott and Zelda - INEZ Honey, you better listen to yourself. You're a psycho. You don't know what you're doing. You see everything here through magical colored glasses. You're a California film writer with a house in Beverly Hills with two Mercedes'. You're not some kind of twenties expatriate novelist. Her parents enter from the adjoining suite. HELEN What's going on?       We can hear every word. GIL If I'm not happy I'll move back. But right now I'm going to stay. INEZ With who? All your crazy hallucinatory friends? Mother was right about you - there's a part missing. JOHN said that first. 
