MILLER'S CROSSING -- by Joel and Ethan Coen 
Miller's Crossing 
An Original Screenplay By 
Joel Coen 
and 
Ethan Coen 
1.   FADE IN: CLOSE SHOT   A WHISKEY TUMBLER 
That sits on an oak side bar under a glowing green bankers lamp, as two ice cubes are dropped in.  From elsewhere in the room: 
Man  (off) I'm talkin' about friendship.  I'm talkin' about character.  I'm talkin' about--hell, Leo, I ain't embarassed to use the word--I'm talkin' about ethics. 
Whiskey is poured into the tumbler, filling it almost to the rim, as the offscreen man continues. 
. . . You know I'm a sporting man.  I like to make the occasional bet.  But I ain't that sporting. 
THE SPEAKER 
A balding middle-aged man with a round, open face.  He still wears his overcoat and sits in a leather chair in the dark room, illuminated by the offscreen glow of a desk lamp.  This is Johnny Caspar. 
Behind him stands another man, harder looking, wearing an overcoat and hat and holding another hat--presumably Caspar's.  This is Bluepoiont Vance. 
Caspar (cont'd) When I fix a fight, say--if I pay a three-to-one favorite to throw a goddamn fight--I figure I got a right to expect that fight to go off at three- to-one.  But every time I lay a bet with this sonofabitch Bernie Bernheim, before I know it the odds is even up--or worse, I'm betting the short money. . . 
Behind Caspar we hear the clink of ice in the tumbler and a figure emerges from the shadows, walking away from the glowing bar in the backgound. 
. . . The sheeny knows I like sure things.  He's selling the information I fixed the fight.  Out- of-town money comes pourin' in.  The odds go straight to hell.  I don't know who he's sellin' it to, maybe the Los Angeles combine, I don't know.  The point is, Bernie ain't satisfied with the honest dollar he can make off the vig.  He ain't satisfied with the business I do on his book.  He's sellin' tips on how I bet, and that means part of the payoff that should be ridin' on my hip is ridin' on someone else's.  So back we go to these questions--friendship, character, ethics. 
The man with the whiskey glass has just passed the camera and we cut to the: 
REVERSE 
Another well dressed, middle aged man, behind a large polished oak desk, listening intently.  This is Leo.  He is short but powerfully built, with the face of a man who has seen things. 
The man with the whiskey enters frame and passes Leo to lean against the wall behind him, where he listens quietly. 
Caspar . . . So its clear what I'm sayin'? 
Leo Clear as mud. 
Caspar purses his lips but continues unfazed. 
Caspar It's a wrong situation.  It's gettin' so a businessman can't expect no return from a fixed fight.  Now if you can't trust a fix, what can you trust?  For a good return you gotta go bettin' on chance, and then you're back with anarchy.  Right back inna jungle.  On account of the breakdown of ethics.  That's why ethics is important.  It's the grease makes us get along, what separates us from the animals, beasts a burden, beasts a prey.  Ethics.  Whereas Bernie Bernheim is a horse of a different color ethics- wise.  As in, he ain't got any.  He's stealin' from me plain and simple. 
Leo leans back in his chair. 
The man behind Leo raises the whiskey glass to his lips. 
He is trimmer and younger than Leo, perhaps in his thir- ties, dark-complected, with a pencil mustache and a gaunt intensity that is not entirely healthy-looking.  This is Tom. 
As he drinks, he studies Caspar and Bluepoint. 
Leo You sure it's Bernie, selling you out? 
For the first time the man behind Caspar speaks: 
Bluepoint It ain't elves. 
Leo Nobody else knows about the fix? 
Caspar No one that ain't got ethics. 
Leo What about the fighters you pay to tank out? 
Bluepoint We only pick fighters we can put the fear of God in. 
Leo Any other bookies know?  You play anyone else's book? 
Caspar I lay an occasional bet with Mink Larouie. 
Bluepoint But it ain't Mink, I'll vouch for that. 
Leo How do you know? 
Caspar shakes his head. 
Caspar It ain't Mink.  Mink is Bluepoint's boy. 
Leo Mm.  And of course, Bluepoint always knows about the fix. 
Bluepoint What the hell is that supposed to mean? 
Leo Let it drift.  All it means is a lot of people know. 
Caspar I guess you ain't been listening.  Sure other people know.  That's why we gotta go to this question of character, determine just who exactly is chiseling in an my fix.  And that's how we know it's Bernie Bernheim.  The Motzah Kid. 'Cause ethically, he's kinda shaky. 
Leo You know Bernie's chiseling you because he's a chiseler.  And you know he's a chiseler because he's chiseling you. 
Airily: 
Caspar Sometimes you just know. 
Leo . . . So you wanna kill him. 
Bluepoint For starters. 
Leo nods, thinking.  He swivels to look interrogatively at Tom. 
Tom gives an almost imperceptable shrug.  The ice cubes in his glass clink. 
Leo turns back to Caspar, pauses. 
Leo . . . Sorry, Caspar.  Bernie pays me for protec- tion. 
Tom, peering over his drink, does not entirely conceal his surprise. 
Caspar stares at Leo, his mouth open.  It is not the response he expected. 
Caspar . . . Listen, Leo, I ain't askin, for permission. I'm tellin' you as a courtesy.  I need to do this thing, so it's gonna get done. 
With a whoosh of rustling leaves the wind gusts a fedora into frame.  For a moment it lies still in the foreground, sunlight rippling over it, making it seem almost alive. Then the wind picks up again and the hat tumbles away from us, end over end, in slow motion into the background, impossibly far away until . . . it dissappears. 
As we fade out, we hear a distant knocking. 
3.   FADE IN: CLOSE SHOT   TOM 
Unshaven, eyes closed, motionless. 
The head credits continue over this one-shot scene. 
The knocking continues, faintly, offscreen.  As we hear a door opening we pull back to a looser shot, revealinq that Tom is slumped back on a tired green sofa. 
A fat hand enters to shake Tom's shoulder. 
Voice Wake up, Tommy. 
Without ocening his eyes: 
Tom I'm awake. 
Voice You're eyes were shut. 
Tom Who're you gonna believe? 
Tom sits up, though it seems like an effort.  He looks sick. 
From a small mirror behind the couch we see that we are in the back room of a gambling establishment.  The leavings of a card game litter a table in the middle background. 
Tom . . . How'd I do? 
Voice What do you think.  You're a millionaire.  You gonna remember your friends? 
Tom reaches up to feel his head, and looks stupidly about. 
Tom . . . Where's my hat? 
Voice You bet it, ya moron.  Good thing the game broke up before you bet your shorts. 
After a beat of staring at nothing in particular, Tom abruptly lurches to his feet and staggers out of frame. 
The other man sits heavily onto the couch that Tom has just vacated.  He is Fat Tony, a big man wearing an apron. 
He watches as we hear Tom, offscreen, staggering across the room, bumping into something which scrapes and then clatters over, opening a door, staggering across tile, and then vomiting. 
Fat Tony watches with mild interest. 
Finally: 
Tom's Voice . . . Who left with my hat? 
Tony Verna.  Verna and Mink. 
Tom . . . Who? 
Louder: 
Tony Mink and Verna. 
Offscreen we hear a tap running. 
Tom . . . Thunderclap running tonight? 
Tony Yeah. 
Tom What's she leave at? 
Tony Three-to-one, more'n likely.  Lay off, Tom.  You shouldn't go deeper in the hole. 
Tom Tell Lazarre I want five hundred on the nose. 
Tony shrugs. 
Tony You would have it. 
Tom . . . Somebody hit me? 
Tony Yeah.  Mink hit you. 
Tom . . . Whyzat? 
Tony inspects a hangnail on his thumb. 
Tony You asked him to. 
4.   CUT TO: A HALLWAY 
A loose shot looking over Tom's shoulder as he knocks on an partment door.  Head credits continue. 
The door swings open and Verna, an attractive but hard- looking woman in her late twenties or early thirties looks coldly out at Tom. 
Tom (still slightly woozy) Miss me? 
Verna You again.  What now? 
Tom I want my hat. 
Verna . . . Is that all you came for? 
Tom Yeah.  I want my hat. 
Verna I won it.  It's mine. 
Tom What're you gonna do with it? 
Verna Drop dead. 
She slams the door. 
There is a long, motionless beat.  Tom raises his hand and knocks again, missing the door completely on his first try. 
After a knock or two the door swings open again. 
Tom I need a drink. 
Verna Why didn't you say so. 
Tom Well I'm right here, and I'm not made of glass. 
Mink Yeah, but he's nervous walkin' around in public. He's a right guy, but he's nervous, Tommy!  He's very nervous!  Who wouldn't be?! 
Tom looks at Mink for the first time. 
Tom Mink-- 
Mink The spot he's in, who wouldn't be!  He asked me to ask you to ask Leo to take care of him.  You know, put in a good word with Leo.  Leo listens to you.  Not that Leo wouldn't help the Motzoh anyway!  A guy like Bernie?  A square gee like the Motzah!  A straight shooter like him? 
Tom I don't get it, Mink-- 
Mink What's to get?!  It's as plain as the nose-- 
Tom I thought you were Bluepoint's sycophant. 
Mink Yeah Tom, that's right.  But a guy can have more than one friend, can't he?  Not that I'd want Bluepoint to know about it, but a square gee like the Motzah?  He's a right guy, Tom!  He's a straight shooter!  I know he's got a mixed reputation, but for a sheeny he's got a lot a good qualities! 
Tom has reached the foot of a large staircase.  He turns to look at Mink with mild curiosity. 
Tom Why should I care what happens to Bernie? 
Mink C'mon Tom, you like Bernie dontcha? 
Tom I don't like anybody, Mink, you know that. 
Mink Well, you like his sister. 
Tom What's that supposed to mean? 
Mink Nothing, Tom.  If it ain't my business I got not a thing to say. 
Tom studies Mink for a beat. 
Tom What's going an between you and Bernie? 
Mink Nothin, Tom!  We're just friends--you know, amigos? 
He sics on his cigarette and looks nervously around the floor, then back at Tom, who stares coolly back. 
Tom You're a fickle boy, Mink.  If Bluepoint found out you had another "amigo"--well, I don't peg him for the understanding type. 
Mink is startled.  In a high shrill voice, as Tom walks up the stairs, clutching his drink: 
Mink Find out!?  How would he find out?!  Damnit Tom, me and you ain't even been talking!  Jesus Tom, damnit, Jesus! 
13.  INT   LEO'S OFFICE 
Pulling Tom as he enters the office. 
Leo (off) 'Lo, Tom.  You know O'Gar. . . 
REVERSE 
Leo faces us from behind his desk. 
Seated in two chairs facing the desk, twisting around to greet Tom, are two men.  O'Gar is a large man wearing a police uniform.  Dale Levander wears a suit; a florid man with a shock of white hair, in his mid-sixties. 
Leo . . . and the mayor. 
Tom I ought to.  I voted for him six times last May. 
Levander chuckles. 
Levander And that ain't the record, either. 
Tom is crossing to the bar. 
Leo Verna turned up.  She's downstairs. 
Tom, his back to Leo as he pours a drink, stiffens. 
Tom . . . She say where she'd been? 
Leo No, I uh. . . didn't want to press her.  Hear about Rug? 
Drink in hand, Tom turns and crosses to perch an a corner of Leo's desk. 
Tom Yeah, R.I.P. 
Leo They took his hair, Tommy.  Jesus that's strange. Why would they do that? 
Tom Maybe it was Injuns. 
Leo Eye-ties, more like it.  Giovanni Casparro. 
Tom So you figure it was Caspar bumped Rug? 
Leo, with a puzzled smile, glances at O'Gar and the mayor, and then back at Tom. 
Leo . . . Well it's pretty obvious ain't it? 
Tom Mm. . . So what's the plan? 
Leo Jump on the guinea hard.  With both feet. 
He looks at the mayor who shifts uncomfortably in his seat. 
. . . Give him the low-down, Dale. 
Mayor Yes, well. . . Leo here has just reminded us that Mr. Caspar operates several clubs in our city wherein the patrons imbibe of rum and play at games of chance. 
Morosely: 
O'Gar And we're sunnosed to stop the party. 
Tom Uh-huh. . . 
Looking at Leo, he jerks his head towards the two men. 
. . . They don't seem too happy about it, Leo. 
O'Gar Naw, it ain't that, Tom. 
Mayor Jesus, Tom!  We do as we're told! 
Tom Leo's upstairs getting ready to shoot himself in the foot on your account. 
Verna I don't know what you're talking about. 
Tom He's gonna go to the mat for your brother.  And it's gonna hurt him. 
Verna I don't know Leo's business, but he's a big boy. 
Tom He used to be. 
Verna causes with the lipstick.  She looks at Tom intently but her tone softens. 
Verna Look.  What do you want, Tom?  You want me to pretend I don't care what happens to Bernie? Well I do.  He's my brother and I don't want him to get hurt.  If Leo wants to help him out I'll step out with him, show him a good time in return.  There's no harm in that. 
Tom There's a name for that kind of business arrange- ment. 
Verna I'll do what I have to for Bernie and there's no reason for you to try and queer that.  Regardless of what you think of me, Bernie's a decent guy. 
Tom A straight shooter, huh?  A square gee? 
Verna Yeah, sneer at him like everyone else.  Just because he's different.  People think he's a degenerate.  People think he's scum.  Well he's not. 
Tom Poor misunderstood Bernie. 
Verna swivels around to stare quizzically at Tom. 
Verna . . . What is this about?  You want me to stop seeing Leo . . . Why don't you just say so? 
Tom I want you to quit spinning Leo in circles and pointing him where to go. 
Verna I forgot--that's your job, isn't it? 
Tom I'll do what I have to to protect Leo.  I'm asking you--politely, for me--to leave him alone. I don't have to ask.  If I told him about our little dance last night, your pull would dry up pretty fast. 
Now Verna is irritated: 
Verna So would yours.  I don't like being threatened. 
Tom I don't like being played for a sucker.  That game might work with Leo but it won't work with me. 
Verna You think last night was just more campaigning for my brother? 
Tom I can see the angles. . . 
He grabs her by the arm and drags her roughly to her feet. 
. . . And I know if there was a market for little old ladies, you'd have Grandma Bernheim first on line. 
Verna (struggling to get out of his grasp) You're a pathetic rumhead. 
Tom And I love you, Angel. 
Tom takes her hat off, tosses it onto the chair, and kisses her roughly on the lips. 
Verna breaks away and socks him on the jaw.  Tom staggers back, upsetting a table of toiletries and landing against a banquette. 
He throws his empty whiskey glass at Verna. 
She ducks and it smashes into the mirror. 
They stand staring at each other for a beat, breathing hard.  Tom has a smear of lipstick near one side of his mouth. 
Finally: 
Verna. . . . I suppose you think you've raised hell. 
She picks up her stole and heads for the door. 
Tom stands staring at her back, swaying, ever so slightly. 
Tom Sister, when T've raised hell you'll know it. 
16.  CUT TO: INT   TOM'S APARTMENT 
A wide shot, facing the semi-circular windows, the door of the apartment behind us.  A large easy chair in the middle foreground faces away from us: a smaller chair is at the window end of the room, facing us. 
At the cut we hear the ringing of the telephone. 
Offscreen we can hear the unhurried scrape of a key in the lock, then the door opening, then the door closing. 
Tom's back enters frame as he strolls into the room and then disappears briefly through an open doorway to the right.  We hear an icebox door opening and closing, and then Tom reenters again, still not reacting to the insis- tently ringing phone.  He is now holding a balled-up towel. 
He walks over to the facing chair at the window end of the room, shrugs off his overcoat, drapes it on the chair, sits, crosses his legs, takes off his hat, tosses it onto the upraised toes of his crossed leg, tilts his head back, and presses the towel against his forehead--apparently it is an icepack. 
We are beginning to track slowly towards him. 
After a beat he takes out a cigarette, lights it, and reaches back for the phone that refuses to stop ringing. 
Tom Yeah. . . 
He casually looks forward, just off to one side, at a specific point in space.  He does not react to whatever he is hearing. 
. . . I need a couple days. . . Because I don't have it now. . . 
We are almost in close shot now.  His gaze is still fixed and emotionless. 
. . . Because I say so. . . What would be good enough?. . . Well, if it'll make him feel any better, tell Lazarre he can send someone by to break my legs.  I won't squawk. 
He prongs the earpiece, still looking off.  The track has stopped in close shot.  He exhales a stream of smoke, then after a beat: 
. . . 'Lo, Bernie. 
REVERSE 
Slouched in a chair, in the corner of the room, facing Tom, is Bernie Bernheim.  He is about thirty and wears his overcoat and hat and a good-natured smile.  He holds an apple in one hand and a paring knife in the other.  The long peel of the apple corkscrews down off the knife. 
Bernie 'Lo, Tom.  What's the rumpus? 
Tom C'mon in, make yourself at home. 
Bernie Yeah, you weren't here so I thought I'd do that. Didn't wanna answer the phone, though.  Figured it wasn't for me. 
Tom Uh-huh. 
After a silent beat, Bernie chuckles. 
. . . What you eat for lunch? 
Johnny Jr. A hot dog. 
Caspar Just a hot dog? 
The boy shakes his head. 
Johnny Jr. A hot dog and mustard. 
Caspar throws his head back and roars with laughter. 
Caspar A hot dog with mustard!  A hot dog with mustard! You hear that, Bluepoint!  The kids as smart as a whip!  Even Uncle Bluepoint thinks that's funny. 
Bluenpoint's face is a solem mask. 
. . . Whadduz the goddamn doctor know! 
Caspar wipes away tears of mirth and digs in his pocket with his left hand.  Extending two closed fists towards the boy: 
. . . G'head, which hand is the penny in? 
The boy touches his right fist. 
. . . Choose again. 
The boy just looks at him. 
. . . Okay, here ya go.  Take the penny.  Shiny new penny. 
To his wife. 
. . . Take the kid.  Wait in the car.  Give'm a penny, boys. 
Tic-Tac and Frankie dig in their pockets for change as the boy and his mother cross to the door. 
Frankie I ain't got a penny, boss. 
Caspar has turned his attention to a check book that lies on the table in front of him.  As he writes: 
Caspar Ah, well, that's a penny ya owe him.  'Lo Tom, what's the rumpus?  You like kids? 
Tom No. 
Absently: 
Caspar Uh-huh.  Have a seat.  G'ahead. 
He tears out the check. 
. . . Well, you're missin' out on a complete life.  I know, kids, big deal, but still, I'm tellin' ya. 
He blows on the check. 
. . . Anyway. . . Thanks for comin' by.  I just wrote this check out to your bookmaker, Lazarre. It's for an even fifteen hundred, which is more than I hear you owe him but I figure you can always use some money on the cuff, a high roller such as yaself whaddya say? 
Tom . . . Thanks. 
Caspar laughs. 
Caspar Always the yapper, huh?  Well, you're welcome. You wanna know why I'm putting you square with Lazarre? 
Tom Not particularly. 
Caspar Bad feeling.  It ain't a good thing.  It's a poison, kid.  I want everybody to be friends.  I do this, you're friends with Lazarre, he's friends with you, and you're friends with me. And all you gotta do, show you're a friend, is to give me Bernie Bernheim.  You know it's the right thing anyway; I can't keep any discipline if I can't punish the people I need to punish.  The Motzah steals from me, I can't have Leo givin' him a shiny new penny. . .  You find some way to make Leo understand that. 
Tom So the deal is, I give you the Motzah, smooth it over with Leo, and you bail me out with Lazarre. 
Caspar Yeah, then we're all friends again: You, me, Leo, Bluepoint. 
Bluepoint sneers from the couch: 
Bluepoint We can maybe have tea sometime. 
Caspar C'mon, Bluepoint.  Friends is a mental state. Wuddya say, kid? 
Tom . . . I'll think about it. 
Caspar He'll think about it.  Hear that, Bluepoint? That's terrific.  The kid's a thinker. 
Bluepoint Does he want a pillow for his head? 
Caspar Okay kid, think about it.  It's a mental state. But make it quick, my family's waitin'. 
Tom I'll think about it and tell you later. 
Bluepoint He needs to think in the thinking room. 
Caspar shakes his head sadly. 
Caspar Kid, if it'll help you think, you should know that if you don't do this you won't be in any shape to walk outa here. 
Tom considers this. 
Tom . . . Would that be physically, or just a mental state? 
Caspar stares at him for a beat, then slowly starts to tear up the check. 
Caspar . . . That ain't friendly, kid.  I make you a nice offer, I get the high hat. 
He gets up and walks over to the door.  Tic-Tac opens it for him and precedes him out. 
Before following Caspar out the door, Bluepoint grins at Tom. 
Bluepoint Too bad for you, smart guy. 
He leaves, shutting the door. 
The room is quiet. 
Tom looks at Frankie, the large man, who looks back. 
Frankie stands, takes off his suit coat, and hangs it carefully on a rack by the door. 
He approaches Tom. 
Tom Leo'll do what suits him, and you'll do what he tells you.  Last I heard Leo's still running this town. 
O'Gar He won't be for long if this keeps up.  It's no good for anyone--you said as much yourself. 
Tom First off, O'Gar, I can say what I please to Leo and about him. . . 
He taps him on the chest. 
. . . You can't.  Second, once Leo decides-- that's that.  And if that sticks going down, there are plenty of other coppers wouldn't mind being chief, and could swallow it clean. 
O'Gar looks chastened. 
O'Gar Jesus, Tom, I was just speculatin' about a hypothesis.  I know I don't know nothin'.  It's just a damn mess is all-- 
He is interrupted by gunfire from an upper story of the facing building. 
O'Gar's men react, finding cover, returning the fire. 
O'Gar unholsters his gun as he and Tom scramble for cover. 
. . . a goddamn mess. 
23.  HALLWAY 
We are shooting over Tom's shoulder as he knocks at the door to Verna's apartment. 
After a beat, Verna opens the door. 
On seeing who it is she starts to swing the door shut. 
Tom puts his toe in the doorway and leans into the door. 
As he pushes his way in: 
Tom Thanks, don't mind if I do. 
24.  INT   APARTMENT 
As Verna gives up and Tom enters. 
Verna walks over to the phone.  As she dials, Tom tosses his hat onto a chair and checks the apartment to see if they're alone. 
Verna Hello, officer, I'd like to report an intruder at 346 West-- 
Tom grabs the phone away from her. 
Tom Who's this?. . . 'Lo, Shad, Tom Duchaisne here. We won't be needing any today. . . That's right, my mother.  She didn't recognize me.  Lemme talk to Mulvaney. 
He takes a flask out of his packet and looks across the room towards Verna. 
. . . Miss me? 
Verna Drop dead. 
We hear a voice barking through the line and Tom turns back to the phone. 
Tom . . . 'Lo Sean, tell O'Car to send a car over to Leo's tonight.  If we're going to be banging away at Caspar we ought to be ready for him to bang back. . . Yeah. 
He hangs up the phone and tips the flask back, draining the last drop. 
Verna What do you want? 
Tom is crossing to the bar. 
Tom I was in the neighborhood, feeling a little daffy.  Thought I'd drop in for an apperitif. 
He pours himself a drink. 
. . . Rug Daniels is dead. 
Verna Gee, that's tough. 
Tom Don't get hysterical.  I've had enough excitement for one nigit without a dame going all weepy on me. 
Verna I barely knew the gentleman. 
Tom Rug?  Bit of a shakedown artist.  Not above the occasional grift, but you'd understand that.  All in all not a bad guy, if looks, brains and personality don't count. 
Verna You better hope they don't. 
He gives her a sick grin. 
Tom . . . Yeah well, we're none of us the saint I hear your brother is. 
Verna Who killed him? 
Tom Leo thinks Caspar did. 
Verna But you know better. 
Tom I do now.  Caspar just tried to buy me into settling his tiff with Leo, which held hardly do if he was waging war.  So I figure you killed him, Angel.  You or Saint Bernard. 
Verna Why would I--or my brother--kill Rug Daniels or anybody else? 
Tom Rug was following you.  He knew about you and me. That wouldn't help your play with Leo, would it? 
He looks at her.  She holds his gaze. 
Verna You think I murdered someone.  Come on, Tom, you know me a little. 
Tom Nobody knows anybody--not that well. 
Verna You know or you wouldn't be here. 
Tom Not at all, sugar.  I came to hear your side of the story--how horrible Rug was, how he goaded you into it, how he tried to shake you down-- 
Verna That's not why you came either. 
Tom shrugs. 
Tom Tell me why I came. 
Verna looks at him. 
Verna The oldest reason there is. 
RAT-TAT-TAT-TAT--the hems of their coats sway as they fire. 
The floorboards in front of us are pocked by bullet hits that walk across the floor towards the bed and hit the mattress. 
The mattress above us dances under the gunfire as ticking sprays down at the floor. 
Smoke curls up throuch the floorboards. 
LEO 
Jaw clamped on his cigar, he starts firing. 
HIS POV 
Blood spurts as one gunman takes a hit in the ankle. 
He staggers and his tommy gun clatters to the floor. 
LEO 
Still firing. 
HIS POV 
The other gunman is ducking out the door. 
The injured gunman pitches forward, head towards us, his hat rolling off. 
LEO 
Firing. 
HIS POV 
A bullet hit in the top of the fallen man's head. 
LEO 
Rolling out from under the bed. 
He stoops to pick up the dead man's tommy gun.  Thick smoke seeps up through the floor. 
The phonograph plays. 
Leo ducks through another door. 
28.  HALLWAY 
Facing down the length of the dark hallway, towards the mouth of the stairs. 
As Leo leaps across frame in the foreground, to enter a facing room, muzzle flashes erupt at the end of the hall-- where the other gunman has been waiting in the darkness. 
29.  SECOND ROOM 
Leo throws open a window. 
30.  EXT 
As Leo rolls out onto the long sloping eave of a front porch. 
His gun skates down the eave and falls.  Leo grabs the rain gutter, hangs by his hands and drops down to the front lawn. 
The first floor of the house is in flames. 
From a high angle the camera swoops down on Leo as he picks up the gun and backs away from the house, looking up at the second story.  His open robe flaps in the breeze.  The dead cigar is still clamped between his teeth. 
LEO'S POV 
The second floor window that he just emerged from. Staccato gunfire erupts in the dark room. 
The strobing gunfire makes a strobing shadow of the gunman, whose back is to us as he rakes the room with fire. 
LEO 
Firing, the gun jumping and bucking in his hands. 
29.  INSIDE THE ROOM 
The gunman, riddled with bullets and showered with broken glass, spins around, his thompson still firing uncontrol- lably. 
Bullets dance across the walls and ceiling, blast out the remaining glass and sing harmlessly into the trees outside. 
BACK TO LEO 
As we hear the screech of skidding tires.  A black coupe takes a curve on the street behind him, machine gun fire spitting out of the back window. 
Leo turns, in the glow of the fanning flames, walking calmly into the street, firing at the receeding car. 
ON THE CAR 
Growing smaller, still snitting fire and lead. 
PULLING LEO 
Still walking calmly up the street, the gun still bucking in his hands.  Bullets whistle by and claw up the pavement around him. 
BEHIND LEO 
His robe whips back in the breeze.  He fires again and we hear the distant sound of shattering glass.  The car weaves, runs up off the road, hits a tree and bursts into flame. 
A figure emerges from the car and staggers off into the darkness.  He is on fire. 
CLOSE ON LEO 
As he stops, squinting, raising the gun. 
HIS POV 
The burning gunman zig-zagging into the darkness. 
BACK TO LEO 
A faint smile curls around the cigar.  He drops the muzzle of the gun. 
Leo Huhh. . . 
Absently: 
Leo Course he did. 
Tom No.  Think about it.  Just this one time.  Who was Rug following? 
This gets Leo's attention.  He turns to look at Tom. 
Leo . . . Huh? 
Tom It needn't have been that sinister.  A strange man, following her down a dark alley, late at night. . . I've told you, Leo, she can take care of herself. 
Leo stares at Tom.  He seems somewhat dazed. 
Leo . . . Tom, why're you saying that?  Christ, Tom. I just told you, I plan to. . . 
Tom They pulled a .22 slug out of him.  A pop gun, Leo--a woman's gun. 
Leo . . . That's a whiskey dream.  Verna wouldn't panic--shoot someone--just because he was following her. 
He gazes off again, shaking his head. 
. . . No. . . It wouldn't have happened that way in the first place, and if it had she would have told me. . . I know you don't like her, Tom, but I trust Verna as much as I trust you. 
Tom On her account you'll burn the town down. 
Leo Don't worry, Tom.  We'll still be standing when the smoke clears. 
Tom's tone is gentle: 
Tom Okay Leo.  Then maybe it wasn't that innocent. Maybe Rug knew something she didn't like him knowing, and wouldn't want you to know.  He was following her.  He knew who she was seeing.  He knew where she was sleeping, and who with. . . 
Leo has taken his feet off the sill and has turned back to face Tom.  He studies him carefully. 
Leo Maybes don't make it so. 
Tom's suddenly very earnest, almost beseeching. 
Tom They're more than maybes.  You've trusted me before, and never lost anything by it.  Trust me on this. 
Leo This is too important. 
Tom I don't ask much, and I don't ask often.  Trist me on this. 
Leo Tommy-- 
Tom Trust me on this or the hell with you. 
Leo You don't mean that. 
Tom . . . She was at my place.  The night Rug was following her; the night you dropped by. 
Leo is still staring impassively at Tom.  Tom doesn't flinch from his gaze. 
After a long beat Leo gets up slowly from his chair, walks over to the window, shoves his hands in his pockets and gazes out. 
For a moment Tom looks at Leo's motionless back, but he has nothing left to say.  He rises, plucks his hat from the desk and goes to the door.  Before exiting, he looks back. 
Leo, in long shot, is still gazing out the window. 
Tom exits. 
33.  HALLWAY 
Pulling Tom up the hall. 
Behind him we can see the door to Leo's office opening and Leo coming out.  He strides up the hall after Tom. 
Tom turns as Leo reaches him. 
Leo, without breaking stride, seems to walk right into him, throwing a punch that catches Tom on the chin and sends him stumbling back, his hat flying off. 
The men 1ining the hall watch with casual interest. 
Tom staggers into one of the men who catches him.  Another man has picked up Tom's hat and now hands it to him.  The first man shoves Tom back into the middle of the hall just in time for the approaching Leo to land another punch against his jaw. 
34.  This blow sends Tom rolling down the staircase, still clutching his hat. 
Leo is clomping down the stairs; his army of private retainers clomp down behind him.  In his shirtsleeves and chomping an unlit cigar, Leo looks like a labor leader taking the rank and file to the barricades. 
Tom claws himself up the wall to his feet. 
Leo has reached the floor and still without breaking stride uppercuts Tom with a blow that straightens him up and sends him staggering like a drunk into gamblers in evening dresses and tuxedos. 
A path clears for Leo and his entourage.  He has not slackened his pace, but is also not hurrying.  Tom weaves, watching Leo approach, but makes no attempt to defend himself. 
Leo grabs his own wrist with one hand and swings his elbow up to catch Tom with a sharp blow on the side of his face. 
Tom spins into a screaming lady in a sequined evening dress and sinks to the floor grabbing at her bodice and skirt for support.  She bats at him with her handbag as he slips down. 
Fat Tony emerges from the crowd and helps Tom to his feet. He raises his hand to stop Leo. 
Tony Okay, Leo.  I'll throw him out. 
Leo stops, panting.  He is looking at Tom, but speaking to to Tony. 
Leo . . . Yeah.  Do that. . . It's the kiss-off.  If I never see him again it'll be soon enough. 
35.  CUT TO: TOM'S APARTMENT 
Wide shot of his living room, facing the windows.  It is night. 
Tom sits with his back to us at the window, feet propped up on the sill.  He is smoking a cigarette.  A full ashtray on a table at his side indicates that he has been sitting there for some time. 
We are slowly tracking in. 
The telephone sits on the the arm of his chair.  After a moment he stubs out the cigarette, picks up the phone and dials. 
Tom . . .'Lo Frankie its Tom, how's the flunky business?. . . I've had worse; your ventilator healing up? 
Offscreen we hear a knocking at the door to the apartment. Tom ignores it. 
. . . Tell Caspar its already forgotten.  I'd like to see him. . . 
The knocking continues. 
Verna The Royale.  Room three-oh-two. 
She gazes off. 
. . . I guess we both double-crossed Leo, there's no getting around that.  I guess he's well rid of both of us. 
Tom Mm. 
Verna The two of us, we're about bad enough to deserve each other. 
Tom Are we? 
Verna We're a couple of heels, Tom.  Yes we are. 
37.  PULLING TOM 
Into a dark office.  Behind him, Frankie, his nose swathed with bandages, is closing the door from the outside. 
Caspar (off) 'Lo, Kid.  You know O'Gar. . . 
TOM'S POV 
Caspar sits behind his desk.  Bluenoint sits slouched on a couch to one side, wearing his hat, his hands jammed into the pockets of his overcoat. 
In two chairs facing the desk, away from us, sit two men who are twisting around to smile at Tom. 
Caspar . . . and the mayor. 
Tom 'Lo, boys. 
Mayor Tom's a big booster.  Always has been. 
Caspar S'fine, s'fine.  Well, Tom and me's got the proverbial fat to chew-- 
The mayor and O'Gar are already rising to their feet. 
Mayor Well, let us know if you need anything. . . 
Caspar Yeah, happy days.  Have a seat, kid. . . 
Tom sits into one of the vacated chairs facing Caspar. 
. . . So you had enough time to think about it? 
Tom Yeah, well, circumstances have changed. 
Caspar Don't I know it.  Last night, I know Bluepoint was disappointed the bulls showed up before Frankie and Tic-Tac could really pin your ears back, but I said, Relax, Bluepoint, I got a feeling about this kid.  Take the long view.  The kid and Leo are gonna go bust-o.  If the kid ain't ready yet, well, he soon will be.  Matter of time.  I said, the kid's too smart for Leo. That's what I said.  Like a psychic.  Ask Bluepoint if I didn't.  Like a goddamn psychic. G'ahead.  Ask him. 
Tom turns to look at Bluepoint. 
Tom You vouch for this psychic business? 
From the couch, Bluepoint sneers: 
Bluepoint That's right, smart guy. 
Caspar cheerfully continues, oblivious to any hostility in the room: 
Caspar I know you knew protecting the Motzah was a dumb idea.  I know you been wise to all of Leo's dumb ideas lately.  Only a matter of time.  Bust-o. 
He chuckles. 
. . . That's why last night we didn't put the arm on you.  Only Leo. 
Tom Seeing how you squiffed your play on Leo, I can be only so grateful. 
Bluepoint That's brave, coming from Little Miss Punching Bag. 
Caspar C'mon Bluepoint.  Friends now, huh? 
Bluepoint Nuts. 
Caspar smiles at Tom. 
Caspar So we get a little jingle.  And I figure you know Leo's on his way out.  It's only a matter of time before we get him.  Am I right, kid? 
Tom Maybe. 
Caspar laughs. 
Caspar What maybe.  You know or you wouldn't be bust-o. So I guess you're looking for a job? 
Tom I might be. 
Caspar laughs. 
Caspar You got references?  You been to college, kid? We only take yeggs what's been to college.  Ain't that right, Bluepoint? 
Bluepoint says nothing.  His scowl is set in cement. 
. . . I'm jokin', of course.  We all know you can be useful to us, a smart kid such as yaself, the man who walks behind the man and whispers in his ear.  I guess you could be useful, in spades. 
Tom Yeah.  I can do plenty for you.  But the fact is that right now Leo's still got all his vital signs and once he hears about this he'll be more anxious to get to me than to either of you. 
Caspar I'm tellin' ya not to worry about Leo.  We got plans for him. 
Tom Yeah?  What? 
Bluepoint Not so fast there, Kaputnik. 
There is a beat through which Caspar continues to smile at Tom. 
Caspar . . . I think what the Bluepoint is trying to say is, there'll be time to talk about that.  That can be tabled for a later date.  See, the last time we jawed you gave-me the high hat.  So I guess I'm sayin', maybe we want your confidence before we give you ours.  You gotta put somethin' on the table.  Ante up. 
Tom Fair enough.  Where shall we start. 
Caspar Hear that, Bluepoint?  All business!  I told you he was a good kid!  Where shall we start!  All business!. . . 
He rocks back in his chair and dries his eyes.  Tom smiles pleasantly.  Finally Caspar sighs. 
. . . Well, we could start for instance with the Motzah. . . Like where's the Motzah?  You could maybe tell us that. . . 
Tom The Royale.  Room three-oh-two.  You might find Mink with him. 
Bluepoint The hell you say. 
Through the woods, pulling the two men, Bernie in the foreground.  Tree limbs groan in the wind. 
Bernie is stumbling, his clothes rumpled and dirty, his face stained by tears and blood from the gun blow.  His shaking voice strains for a tone of reasonableness: 
Bernie . . . Tommy, you can't do this.  You don't bump guys.  You're not like those animals back there. 
Tom marches on, face drawn, silent. 
. . . It's not right, Tom.  They can't make us do this.  It's a wrong situation.  They can't make us different people than we are.  We're not muscle, Tom.  I never killed anybody.  I used a little information for a chisel, that's all.  I couldn't help it, Tom, it's my nature.  Somebody hands me an angle, I play it.  I don't deserve to die for that!  D'you think I do?  I'm just a grifter!  Huh, Tom? 
Still no response from Tom.  Bernie is fighting a losing battle to keep himself from whining. 
. . . But I'll tell you what, I never crossed a friend.  Huh, Tom?  Never killed anybody, never crossed a friend.  Nor you, I'll bet.  We're not like those animals.  You can't do this!  You're not like those animals.  This is not us!  This is some hop dream! 
Tom's face is a ---ny mask.  Bernie is losing control again.  He starts to weep. 
. . . It's a dream!  Tommy!  I'm praying to you! I can't die!  I can't die!  Out here in the woods!  Like a dumb animal!  I can't die! 
He turns and sinks to his knees, wailing, his hands clasped in front of him, staring up at Tom. 
. . . You can't kill me.  I'm praying to you! look in your heart!  I'm praying to you!  Look in your heart! 
Tom stares down at Bernie, his face drawn and pale. 
. . . I'm praying to you!  Look in your heart! 
Slowly Tom raises the gun and levels it at Bernie's head. 
. . . Look in your heart!  Look in your-- 
BOOM!  The gun blast is deafening.  With it, Bernie's sobbing abruptly stops. 
The shot echoes away in the woods, taking the wind with it, leaving silence. 
CLOSE   BERNIE 
Still kneeling, in shock, staring wide-eyed at Tom. 
Finally, whispering: 
Bernie . . . Tommy. 
Tom Shutup.  You're dead, get me? 
Still whispering: 
Bernie I understand.  I'm dead.  God bless you-- 
Tom Shutup.  You have to disappear.  You have to blow, for good.  Nobody can see you, nobody can know. 
Bernie God bless you-- 
Tom Go somewhere no one knows you.  Anyone sees you, you really are dead, I don't care, you're not my problem any more. 
Bernie Of course not.  Of course not.  You've done your share.  Thank you.  Don't worry, I understand. Thank you-- 
Tom Shutup. Just get the hell out, before I change my mind. 
Bernie is already on his feet, and running. 
CLOSE ON TOM 
Watching Bernie go. 
TRACKING 
Pulling Bernie as he runs.  Foreground trees flash by.  In the background we see Tom standing, his gun dangling at his side. 
Boom!--another gun blast.  Running, Bernie reacts, but Tom has only fired into the ground. 
On the echo of the shot we cut to: 
41.  WIDE   THE ROAD 
Tic-Tac and Frankie are leaning against the car, trading the flask back and forth. 
In the background, Tom emerges from the woods. 
Frankie Put one in his brain? 
Tom takes a few steps more before answering: 
Tom . . . Yeah. 
Frankie Attaboy. 
FADE OUT 
Over black we hear the sound of coins being dropped into a phone box. 
42.  FADE IN 
Looking down a deserted street towards a glowing phone booth on a dark corner.  Tom stands inside the booth waiting, the receiver to his ear. 
Tom Mink?  Tom Duchaisne.  Where've you been?. . . 
CLOSE ON TOM 
Inside the phone booth. 
. . . Well you're lucky, Bluepoint's been looking for you.  Bernie's dead--Stop wailing and listen to me.  Caspar knows you were in on selling out his fix. . . I guess I gave him that idea.  Sorry Mink, we were chatting and it just slipped out.-- Shutup and let me talk.  You've gotta make yourself missing, but let me know where you hole up.  You're gonna say some things for me. . . Some stories.  About Bluepoint, to Caspar--don't worry, I'll let you know.  For now just dis- appear. . . Yeah, I got you into it.  Just remember, Mink, I'm the only one who can get you out. 
Tom hangs up the phone, turns around and opens up the glass door. 
WHOMMMP!  A fist slams into his stomach, driving him back into the phone booth, knocking his hat off of his head. 
The man who hit him leans down, picks up the hat, dusts it off and hands it into the booth.  It is Dead Terry, the tall cadaverous man we saw earlier outside of Leo's office. A cigarette dangles from his lower lip. 
Behind him a black sedan is parked at the curb.  Three or four gunmen stand on the sidewalk looking warily up and down the road. 
Tom looks up, the color drained from his face, and reaches feebly out for his hat. 
Tom 'Lo, Terry.  Getting out the vote? 
Dead Terry flicks his cigarette away and smiles. 
Cascar looks at Tom and smiles. 
. . . Kids.  Ya gotta be firm.  Anyways.  You know what I'm sayin'.  No reason to worry but no reason not to investigate, neither.  If Mink is around I want you to find him.  He can tell us what's what. . . (to Johnny Jr.:) . . . What's a matter, somebody hit you, what's a matter, we ain't friends anymore?. . . 
He picks up Johnny Jr., who is crying softly, and sets him in his lap.  Encouraged by the attention, the child starts wailing.  Caspar bounces him on his knee and raises his voice over the sobs: 
. . . If you find him, I wanna talk to him alone. That's how you get the straight dope.  Man-to- man.  Just me, Mink. . . 
He pats his jacket where his shoulder holster is. 
. . . and my friend roscoe.  Y'understand what I'm sayin'? 
Tom takes a contemplative drag on his cigarette. 
Tom . . . It ain't complicated. 
44.  CUT TO: CLOSE SHOT   A MAN'S FACE 
Crunch!--being hit by a gloved hand. 
The blow and the man's grunt echo. 
CLOSE ON A NEWSPAPER 
As the noise of fists against flesh continues, echoing, in the background. 
The newspaper headline reads: PARTY BOSS LOOSES MUNICIPAL CONTRACT.  The subhead reads:  Liam (Leo) O'Bannon Removed From City Highway Commission;  New Construction Contracts To Raffo Bros. 
ON TOM 
Leaning against a pillar in a large bare room with a hardwood floor.  He is reading the newspaper. 
We are in a gym.  In a ring in the background two boxers are sparring as two or three old men with towels slung over their shoulders and elbows hooked over the ropes idly watch, and offer occasional bits of half-hearted advice. 
We hear high heels echoing across the floor and Verna enters. 
Tom You should leave town for a few days; things are going to heat up here.  Go out to the Pallisades; I'll join you once I'm done. 
Verna . . . I can't find Bernie.  Did you find him? 
Tom looks out at the fighters in the background, avoiding Verna's look. 
Tom . . . Yeah. 
Verna Is he leaving? 
Tom He left. 
Verna Where to? 
Tom . . . He didn't say.  You should-- 
She reaches out to touch his hand-- 
Verna Thanks. 
She leans in to embrace him. 
Tom's eyes drift up to the fighters. 
45.  EXT   THE GYM 
Peeling paint on its blackened-out window reads: Gleason's Gym.  Training in The Sweet Science. 
Verna is exiting the gym in long shot. 
We pull back to bring Bluepoint into frame.  He sits in the driver's seat of a car, watching through his side window as Verna recedes.  Quietly: 
Bluepoint What's he up to? 
An offscreen voice, a passenger: 
Voice I dunno. 
Bluepoint That's Bernie's sister, isn't it? 
Voice I dunno. 
Bluepoint thinks, a short beat. 
Bluepoint What's he seeing her for? 
Voice I dunno, maybe he's-- 
Bluepoint Shutup.  Get outta the car.  Stick with the bighead. 
Bluepoint reaches for the ignition, as we hear the car door open. 
. . . I'll see where the twist flops. 
46.  CUT TO: INT   SPEAKEASY 
A hand swings through frame holding the barrel of a gun, smashing the butt into a surprised face. 
With a loud crash the surprised man stumbles back into a table and hits the floor.  Legs and the skirts of an overcoat approach the prostrate, round, middle-aged man and start kicking him. 
He rolls across the floor trying to shield himself from the blows. 
Voice (off) C'mon, get up.  I just wanna talk. 
Another Voice (off) Yeah, get up.  He ain't gonna hurt ya. 
Round Man He already hurt me!  He broke my goddamn nose! 
Whisper, the man standing over him, has a long scar across his neck.  He has a rasping voice: 
Whisper So what?  I had my nose broke once. 
Round Man I already paid Leo's men. 
Bert, another enforcer, is down at the end of the bar with Tom. 
Bert You still pay Leo for protection?  Is he protec- tin' you? 
As he kicks at the little round man: 
TRACKING TOWARDS BERT 
Bert . . . Up there!  Leo's-- 
A hail of bullets cuts him to pieces.  A limp rag, he hits the road. 
The police car squeals to a halt in front of his corpse.  A sergeant and his men pile out. 
Tom is sauntering over, smoking a cigarette. 
Sergeant 'Lo, Tom.  Chalk one up for the good guys, huh? 
Tom Yeah, Caspar'll be thrilled.  You just shot one of his apes. 
Sergeant Bullshit! 
Tom's attention is drawn by something down the street. 
HIS POV 
About a block away, a man with white hair is crossing the street, from the side where the sniper's shot came from. 
Sergeant (off) I'm tellin' you that's Two-Toe Jackson!  He's Leo's! 
BACK TO TOM 
As he starts to leave. 
Tom It's Bert Sachetti, Caspar's bang-man. 
Behind him the Sergeant bellows at another cop: 
Sergeant Bullshit!  Take his shoes off.  Count his goddamn toes! 
48.  INT   DINER 
Dead Terry McGill sits at a stool looking angrily down at a cup of coffee.  Tom enters to sit next to him. 
Through the windows behind them, we can see people running back and forth on the street, a fire engine racing past-- furious activity, its noise muted inside the diner. 
Tom 'Lo, Terry.  You weren't aiming at me, were you? 
Terry does not even look over at him.  Sullenly: 
Terry In the first place, I don't know what you're talking about.  In the second place, if I had been aiming at you I'd've hit you.  In the third place, I don't know what you're talking about in the first place. 
He tosses some coins onto the counter and gets up.  We hold on Tom as Terry talks to Tom's back: 
. . . I'd like to have, believe me.  Leo won't let me--yet.  But I'll bring him around. 
He puts a hand on Tom's stoulder and swivels him around. Terry clenches a fist and draws it back to throw a punch. 
Tom and Terry look at each other, Tom making no movement to defend himself. 
After a long beat, Terry uncldnches his fist and sneers: 
. . . I won't give you the satisfaction. 
49.  CUT TO: DOORKNOB 
As--CRASH--a foot enters to kick it and the door in. 
INT   VERNA'S APARTMENT 
Verna is backing away from the door--behind us--into the apartment.  Bluepoint strides into frame. 
Bluepoint Know who I am? 
Verna continues to back away; Bluepoint continues to advance. 
Verna Yeah, Johnny Caspar's shadow.  Did he stay in bed today? 
Bluepoint Jesus.  I open my mouth, the whole world turns smart. . . 
He glances around the room.  Verna is backing around the couch.  Bluepoint continues to follow her. 
. . . What business d'you have with Tom Duchaisne? 
Verna None. 
She continues to back away; Bluepoint continues to follow. 
Bluepoint You're Leo's twist, right? 
Verna Me and Leo are through. 
She picks up her purse from the sill behind the couch and rummages.  Bluepoint doesn't seem to mind. 
Bluepoint Yeah?  So you're sluttin' around with Tom now, huh? 
Verna has taken a gun from her purse; she levels it at Bluepoint. 
Verna Get outta here. 
As he continues to stride towards her: 
Bluepoint Okay, see ya later. . . 
His hand shoots out in a flash--he has grabbed the gun with one hand, her arm with the other. 
. . . Before I go, what's your boyfriend up to? 
Verna is stuggling in his grasp to no effect. 
Verna Nothing I know about. 
Bluepoint drags her close, nose to nose: 
Bluepoint Yeah?  It doesn't figure for me, your dumping Leo for the guy who put a bullet in your brother. 
Verna stops resisting and stares at him. 
Bluepoint stares back at her, thinking. 
. . . Didn't tell you, huh? 
Tic-Tac Hop in, Tom, we been lookin' for you. 
Still briskly walking: 
Tom I'm busy. 
Tic-Tac Hop in anyway, as in you ain't got no choice. 
Tom You can't hijack me, Tic-Tac, we're on the same side now--or didn't you get that far in school? 
The car screeches over to put a wheel on the sidewalk and block Tom's way.  The back door swings open and Frankie emerges to help Tom in.  Like Tic-Tac, Frankie looks a little worked over. 
Tom quickly sizes up the situation and decides to comply. 
60.  INT  CAR 
As Tom sits into the back, next to Bluepoint.  Frankie slides in after him. 
Bluepoint How'd you get the fat lip? 
The car starts moving. 
Tom Old war wound.  Acts up around morons. 
Bluepoint Very smart.  What were you doing at the club? Talking things over with Leo? 
Tom Don't think so hard, Bluepoint, you might sprain something. 
Bluepoint You're so goddamn smart.  Except you ain't.  I get you, smart guy, I know what you are. Straight as a corkscrew.  Mr. Inside-Outsky. Like a goddamn bolshevik, picking up your orders from Yegg Central.  You think you're so goddamn smart. 
He sneers: 
You joined up with Caspar.  You bumped Bernie Bernheim.  Down is up.  Black is white.  Well I think you're half-smart.  I think you were straight with your frail and queer with Johnny Caspar.  And I think you'd sooner join the Ladies' League then gun a guy down. 
His eyes narrow at Tom. 
. . . Then I hear that these two geniuses never even saw this rub-out take place. 
Defensively: 
Tic-Tac The boss just said have him do it, he didn't say nothing about-- 
Bluepoint Shutup, or maybe you still got too many teeth. 
Tic-Tac sulks.  Bluepoint turns and gazes out the window of the car. 
. . . Everyone's so goddamn smart.  Well, we'll go to Miller's Crossing.  And we'll see who's smart. 
61.  EXT   WOODS 
It is morning; the sun is now fully up.  Bluepoint and Tom walk side-by-side through the woods.  Frankie and Tic-Tac walk several steps ahead of them, each off to one side, searching.  Frankie is singing an old Neapolitan song. 
Bluepoint Y'understand if we don't find a stiff out here, we leave a fresh one. 
Tom walks a little unsteadily.  His shoulders are hunched and his hands are jammed into his overcoat packets.  He stares woodenly forward.  Bluepoint laughs softly. 
. . . Where're your friends when you need 'em, huh?  Where's Leo now? 
Tom tramps mechanically on.  His eyes drift up. 
HIS POV 
Tracking.  A canopy of leaves, sprinkled by sunlight. The boughs of the trees sough quietly in the wind. 
We hear the unearthly groaning of the tree limbs. 
TOM 
Looks forward. 
Bluepoint calls out: 
Bluepoint Hey Tic-Tac, ever notice how the snappy dialogue dries up once a guy starts soiling his union suit? 
Tom tramps on. 
HIS POV 
The backs of Frankie and Tic-Tac as they walk on ahead. 
Frankie is still singing. 
TOM 
He looks stupidly at Bluepoint.  He looks ahead. 
He stops abruptly. 
Bluepoint What? 
Tom is still for a moment, then with jerky movements gets down on his knees, hugs a tree with one arm for support, and vomits. 
Bluepoint watches him, then calls out to Frankie and Tic- Tac: 
. . . Okay, there's nothing out here. 
He grabs Tom's hat off his head and flings it away.  Then he plants a foot against Tom's side and shoves him to the ground. 
CLOSE ON TOM 
As his face hits the ground. 
Bluepoint's foot enters; he plants it an the side of Tom's neck to keep him pinned. 
TOM'S POV 
Skewed angle, from the ground. 
Frankie is ambling back, singing. 
BLUEPOINT 
Checking the open chamber of his gun.  He snaps it shut. 
As he levels the gun at Tom: 
Tom laughs bitterly. 
Tom Sure, talk to him.  Have a chat.  Ask him whether he's selling you out.  Don't take care of him before he makes his next move, just sit back and let him make it.  You're swimmin' in it. 
Caspars eyes flash.  Tom's tone softens: 
. . . Johnny, my chin's hanging out right along side yours. 
Caspar goes slack. 
Caspar Yeah. 
Tom stands up. 
Tom . . . I'd worry a lot less if I thought you were worrying enough. 
Caspar, miserable, rubs his face.  From the distant street, we hear another booming explosion. 
Caspar . . . But I am, kid. . . Christ. . . running things. . . 
68.  CUT TO: TOM'S APARTMENT 
The phone is ringing at the cut. 
We are looking at the window sill upon which the phone sits, with an empty chair facing. 
Footsteps approach and Tom sits into frame and takes the phone. 
Tom Yeah? 
Through the phone: 
Voice I got your message. 
Tom 'Lo, Bernie, I had a dream about you the other day. 
We hear Bernie laugh. 
Bernie . . . Yeah?  A nightmare? 
Tom On the contrary; very sweet.  I dreamt you were lying out at Miller's Crossing with your face blown off. 
More laughter. 
Bernie . . . You get a kick out of that? 
Tom I was in stitches.  It's Mink, isn't it? 
Bernie I came back and he wasn't happy to see me.  Can you beat that, Tom?  All he could taik about was how he had to skip, and how much trouble he'd be in if anyone found me at his place. 
Tom Some friend. 
Bernie Yeah.  And you know what a nervous boy he was.  I figured, hell, you're a friend.  Maybe you could use some insurance. 
Tom That's you to the gills, Bernie: thoughtful.  You didn't happen to keep his gun, did you? 
After a moment's hesitation: 
. . . Didn't Mink have a .22? 
Bernie Held already ditched it.  Why? 
Another hesitation: 
Tom . . . After Rug? 
Bernie Yeah. . . How did you know? 
Down to business: 
Tom Doesn't matter.  Listen, Bernie, I've been thinking about our little deal and I've decided you can stick it in your ear. 
Bernie . . . Huh? 
Tom I figure you don't have anything on me that I don't have on you.  As a matter of fact, less, since I've decided to leave town. So I'm calling your bluff. 
Bernie Wait a minute-- 
Tom Shutup and let me talk.  I'm pulling out of here, tomorrow morning.  The only thing for you to decide is whether or not I leave behind a message for Caspar that you're still around.  If you want me to keep my mouth shut, it'll cost you some dough. 
Bernie You can't-- 
Tom I figure a thousand bucks is reasonable.  So I want two thousand. 
Bernie In a pig's eye-- 
Tom This isn't a debate, it's instructions.  I'm going out for a while; I'll be back here at four this morning.  Bring me the money.  If you're not at my place, four o'clock, with the dough, Caspar'll be looking for you tomorrow. 
He hangs up. 
69.  CUT TO: HALLWAY 
We are close on Tom as, in overcoat and hat, he emerges from his apartment and looks down at the keys in his hand. 
WHAP--A fist swings into frame to connect with Tom's cheek. He falls back. 
Three topcoated men loom over him. 
First Man Got any money? 
Tom is massaging his face. 
Tom . . . No. 
The first man nods at the other two. 
First Man Okay. 
The two men pick Tom off the floor and start to work him over.  He doesn't resist. 
The first man watches dispassionately. 
. . . Third race tonight.  By the finish, Tailor Maid had a view of the field. 
He lights himself a cigarette. 
Tom holds Bluepoint's look. 
Tom Is there a point?  Or are you just brushing up on your small talk? 
Bluepoint I like that.  Cool under fire.  I'm impressed. 
Very quickly he delivers two slaps--forehand and backhand. Tom's head rocks but he recovers to stare back at Blue- point. 
. . . The gorilla didn't know whose stiff we found, but I can fill that in.  You killed Mink, you sonofabitch. 
He grabs Tom by the lapels, swings him away from the desk, and lands a punch on his chin. 
Tom stumbles backs. 
Caspar has turned from the fireplace, watching the doings across the room. 
Bluepoint moves towards Tom, breathing hard with antici- pated pleasure. 
. . . Come here, bum.  I'm gonna send you to a deep dark place.  And I'm gonna have fun doing it. 
Bluepoint's hand snakes out and grabs Tom by the front of the coat, hauling him close.  He slaps him savagely. 
. . . It was Mink, and by God I'll hear you say it! 
Tom Is this how you taught Drop his story? 
In one motion Bluepoint's hands wrap around Tom's throat choking him off.  As the pressure increases, Tom, purpling, sinks to his knees. 
Bluepoint I like the way you think.  Maybe when you're dead I'll cut your head off, put it on my mantle-- 
WHANG--a shovel blade swings into frame to smash Bluepoint in the face. 
He drops. 
From somewhere in the room, a scream. 
Bluepoint is on his hands and knees, one hand pressed over his ruined face, blood pouring from between the fingers. 
Caspar Sonafabitch. . . 
He stands over Bluepoint with the fireplace shovel. 
. . . If there's one thing I can't stand, it's a double-cross artist.  I had a feeling 'bout this sonofabitch-- 
He swings the shovel back and delivers an overhand blow to the top of Bluepoint's head. 
Bluepoint drops to the floor, instantly motionless. 
The scream, however, continues. 
Drop Johnson, on the couch, his eyes wide, his hands spastically squeezing his knees, is looking down at Bluepoint.  Drop's mouth is stretched wide.  He is scream- ing. 
Tom gets slowly to his feet. 
Cascar looks at Drop. 
. . . Shut it, you sonofabitch! 
He is striding over to him with the shovel. 
. . . I'll give you something to holler about! 
Tom intercepts him. 
Tom Johnny.  It's okay.  Bluepoint made him.  It's okay.  It's not important. 
Caspar is panting. 
Caspar Then have him shut it! 
Drop does. 
There is a beat. 
Incongruously, Caspar's bellow breaks the silence: 
. . . And we do the same to Mink!  This very same night! 
Another silence.  The rain.  The crackle of the fire. 
Tom's tone is soothing: 
Tom . . . Johnny.  We can't double-cross him.  He wants to spill the whole set-up-- 
Caspar stares at him through glazed eyes. 
Caspar I've never let a sonofabitch walk! 
Tom You've never crossed anyone . . . 
Caspar is staring at him.  His eyes have lost some of their glaze. 
Tom . . . Four o'clock, my place.  Mink's coming in on his own hook so I promised him the money. Don't make me out a liar-- 
Drop is suddenly screaming again. 
Caspar looks where Drop is looking: 
Bluepoint is raising his head, moaning.  His face is a mask of blood.  One hand gropes in his overcoat pocket for his gun. 
Caspar shouts over Drop's howl as he pulls something from his desk drawer: 
Caspar . . . Lookit this, kid. 
He strides over to Bluepoint. 
. . . Something I try and teach all my boys. . . 
With the gun point blank against the back of Bluepoint's head, he fires. 
Tom recoils. 
. . . Always put one inna brain! 
72.  A CLOCK 
. . . 'Ats what I'm tellin' ya. It contracts. 'At way you get a first class shave. 
Driver Okay, Johnny. 
As Caspar walks off the driver slouches back, pulls his fedora over his eyes and folds his arms across his chest. A back enters frame in the foreground. 
Tom's Voice: 'Lo, Sal.  You can dangle. 
The driver looks up, startled. 
Driver 'Lo, Tom.  You sure?  You don't look so hot. 
We still don't see Tom's face. 
Tom I'm okay.  Go ahead, I'll drive him home. 
The driver shrugs. 
REVERSE 
Wider, from the other side of the car, as the car pulls away. 
Tom walks into the foreground, toward his house; we tilt up to hold him. 
The low-angle shows us the tree behind Tom, its branches still creaking in the wind. 
Crack crack--we hear two gunshots from inside the house. 
Tom stops momentarily in close shot, looking up, and then continues on out of frame. 
75.  OVER TOM'S SHOULDER 
We follow him as he walks into the building and slowly down the first-floor hall. 
The hallway is quiet excent for a light moaning wind. 
Beyond Tom we see the door to the first-floor apartment crack open a slit.  Hissing: 
Voice Mr. Duchaisne. . . 
The door opens wider.  Mrs. Zarpmas, wearing a housecoat, her gray hair down in braids, sticks her head out. 
. . . There were shots. 
Tom looks up towards the staircase, then back at Mrs. Zarpas. 
Tom Go down to the drugstore.  Call the police. 
She stares at him, nods.  As she drapes on a raincoat: 
Mrs. Zarpas Yes, Mr. Duchaisne. 
Tom You better stay there til the officers arrive. 
Mrs. Zarpas Yes . . . 
She pauses. 
. . . Will the cats be all right here? 
Tom stares at her. 
Finally, he nods. 
Tom . . . They'll be fine. 
Mrs. Zarpas returns his dazed nod, and shuffles away. 
So far, upstairs, all is quiet. 
PULLING TOM 
As he starts slowly towards the staircase. 
TOM'S POV   TRACKING FORWARD 
A small black object on the staircase--an upside-down fedora.  Blood drips with a hollow rattle down onto a step, a couple steps above the hat. 
PULLING TOM 
He looks up. 
POV 
A head sticks through the balusters of the second story landing return.  The body is on its back; the head lolls back over the tip of the landing down towards the stair- case. 
Our climbing low angle shows us mostly the back of the head.  The body's far shoulder has knocked out a baluster whose splintered bottom juts down towards the stairs. 
PULLING TOM 
Still climbing, looking at the body. 
HIS POV 
Climbing and panning as we draw even with the head. 
It is Caspar.  Blood has been expelled through his nostrils over his mouth and chin.  His face is deep red.  His eyes stare glassily at Tom. 
PULLING TOM 
As he reaches the top of the stairs and swings around to face along the landing.  We hear a chuckle, close by.  Wind is groaning through the hallway. 
POV 
In the middle foreground Caspar lies an the floor; beyond him, Bernie leans against the doorframe in Tom's open doorway, smiling, his arms folded over his chest. 
The balusters stretch away in a regular line, throwing vertical shadows upwards against the opposite wall. 
Bernie I get it.  You set me up. 
Tom leans against the wall and looks morosely down at Caspar. 
Bernie . . . Anything to avoid a little dirty work yourself, huh? 
Tom doesn't answer. 
He sinks to his knees, his voice rising. 
. . . Jesus Christ!  It don't make sense!  Tommy! Look in your heart! 
Tom What heart. 
BANG--Bernie splays backwards from the knees, a bullet drilled neatly through his forehead. 
Tom drops the gun by Caspar's body. 
Unpocketing Bernie's gun, Tom goes over to his corpse and drops it there. 
We pan with Tom's legs to bring his doorway into view as he walks into his apartment, to the window chair in the background, and sits with his back to us. 
The windows show daylight breaking.  Far away a clock strikes the quarter hour. 
Tom is picking up the phone and dialing.  Waiting for an answer, he reaches over to turn off the feeble yellow lamp burning chairside. 
As we start to FADE OUT, we can hear Tom talking into the phone: 
Tom . . . Tony?  Tom.  Tell Lazarre I've got his money. . . Yeah, all of it.  And I want to place a bet on tonight's fight. . . 
A BEAT OF BLACK 
76.  CUT TO: THE HALLWAY 
Of Leo's club, leading to his office. 
We are tracking over Tom's shoulder as he walks down the hall, led by Dead Terry. 
Terry They set you up downstairs? 
Tom How's that? 
Terry Hootch?  Whatever? 
Tom gestures with the drink he is carrying.  Its ice cubes clink. 
. . . Well thanks for coming, Tom.  Leo's real anxious to see you. . . 
Tom Yeah.  I happened to be near. 
We can hear muffled bellowing coming from Leo's office, growing louder as we approach. 
Terry seems embarassed: 
Terry Actually. . . this might not be the best time. . . 
They have pulled up in front of the closed door to Leo's office. 
Leo's bellowing, inside, abates for a moment.  We can hear another voice, muffled so that we don't hear words, but only the voice's plaintive quality. 
Leo's bellowing cuts it short. 
Tom . . . Who's he got in there? 
Terry O'Gar and the mayor. 
As he leaves frame: 
Tom I'll try again. 
Terry calls after him: 
Terry I'll tell him you stopped by. 
77.  DOWNSTATRS 
Pulling Tom as he walks across the gambling floor, drink still in hand. 
Behind him we can see workmen busily repairing the damage done to the club in the police raid. 
Halfway across the floor Tom stiffens and slows, seeing something. 
Verna is entering the club. 
The two meet. 
Tom 'Lo, Verna. 
Verna See Leo? 
They both lean against a counterstop and look out at the floor. 
Tom He was busy. 
Verna You should see him.  He has something to tell you. 
Tom Maybe I'll run into him. 
Verna Bernie's funeral is tomorrow.  You could stop by. 
Tom Maybe. 
Verna . . . Leo has something to tell you. 
Tom So you said. 
There is a silent beat.  Verna scowls. 
Verna . . . Tell me something, Tom.  Why didn't you tell me what was going on?  I thought he was dead, and you never-- 
Tom There was no point in telling you.  It could only have queered things if it had gotten out-- 
Verna Jesus, Tom!  You don't just talk to people for the play it gives you or doesn't give you!  I suffered, you no-heart son of a bitch! 
Tom lets this drift. 
Verna tries to compose herself. 
. . . I'm sorry.  It's just that things might've been different.  With us.  If I'd known that you hadn't. . . done anything to him. . . 
Tom You know now. 
Verna looks at him intently. 
