"Mission: Impossible 2", shooting draft, by Robert Towne 
MISSION IMPOSSIBLE 2 
By 
Robert Towne 
Revised. 12/4/99 
NOTE: THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS AND SOME "SCENE OMITTED" SLUGS. THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FOR THIS SOFT COPY. 
FADE IN: 
A WORN SATCHEL (MOVING - DAY) 
is being carried by a world weary middle European wearing a black armband.  VLADIMIR NEKHORVICH exits a gleaming building, pausing for a moment, under a motto clearly visible above his head, 'Where the future is now'.  He checks the time. 
INSERT - WATCH 
set in Countdown Mode.  It's at 19 hours forty-seven minutes and sixteen seconds and dropping, 19:37.15,  :14,  :13,  :12 etc. 
O.S. children are singing: 
Ring a ring a rosy/a pocketful of posy/ a tissue a tissue/we all fall down. 
Nekhorvich looks to see children at play outside the adjacent Natural History Museum.  They are moving in and around an odd freeform sculpture. 
POV - SCULPTURE AND CHILDREN 
a blur where the sculpture seems to be distorting the children, almost like mirrors in a fun house. 
NEKHORVICH 
wipes his eyes, a horn honks.  He looks toward the sound. 
MOVING SHOT - SATCHEL (INT. AIRPORT SECURITY - DAY) 
on the belt that takes it thru X-Ray.  On the other side a guard opens the satchel and pokes thru a few toilet articles, personal items, books, a battleship gray digital camera and - in a small plastic container marked 'S.G.' - a small, square shiny object, hi-tech and at odds with the other items.  She pulls out an urn- shaped vessel. 
GUARD What's this, then? 
NEKHORVICH (handing her documents) The ashes of a colleague, I'm taking them to his family.  If you wish to open it, please be careful. 
COMPUTERIZED SCREEN DISPLAY (INT. PLANE - MOVING - DAY) 
on the cabin wall displays a colorful map showing the flight point of departure in Sydney, continuously updating distance, direction and time to its ultimate destination, Atlanta, Georgia. 
CAPTAIN'S VOICE - folks, we're a little over two and a half hours from touchdown in Atlanta, but if you look out your windows on either side of the aircraft, we'll soon be crossing the southern section of the Rocky Mountains, a range which includes more than 50 peaks rising above 14,000 feet. The chain's loftiest point, Mount Elbert, at 14, 433 feet should be coming into view as we pass over central Colorado shortly.. 
NEKHORVICH (INT. CABIN - DAY) 
seems intent on the map, its changing times and distance.  He checks his watch - the countdown has gone from 20 to three hours and 32 minutes as Nekhorvich is mesmerized by the descending seconds whipping by. 
ETHAN HUNT sits into shot on the vacant first class aisle seat beside Nekhorvich. 
ETHAN You keep staring at that watch as if your life depended on it, Doctor.. 
NEKHORVICH Well, yes.  I suppose I am a bit anxious. 
ETHAN They're ready and waiting.  You'll soon be with old friends. 
NEKHORVICH (meaning Ethan) I'm with an old friend now, Dmitri. 
ETHAN Sorry it couldn't be under happier circumstances. 
NEKHORVICH Yes, I'm sorry too.. 'You're sorry and I'm sorry..' (bemused laughter, then looks at Ethan) - you do know Gradski thought the world of you. 
Nekhorvich is overcome.  Ethan puts a comforting hand on his shoulder: 
ETHAN He was quite a man.  Did he know before the end you two had succeeded? 
NEKHORVICH Yes, he knew.  Just.. 
ETHAN ..not in time to save him. 
NEKHORVICH No.  After you've lived with Chimera for twenty hours, nothing can save you.  Not even...Bellerophon. 
Nekhorvich pats the satchel. 
The MI theme music kicks in, the main credits roll to: 
EXT - FACE OF MOUNTAIN (DAY) 
For a moment it might be thought part of the same range when the plane crashed but when Ethan Hunt climbs into frame the angle widen and titles down, revealing more of where he's come from than where he's going.  Aside from the fact that he's in the midst of free-climbing what is easily a sheer rock face of at least a thousand feet, there's the sunny picture-postcard view of a lovely valley and pellucid lake thousands of feet below.  Ethan climbs out of shot. 
WIDE UP ANGLE (DAY) 
revealing the summit, a light breeze hitting the lichen and whatever growth has a slender purchase on the rocky mountainside, fluffy clouds overhead. 
Ethan into shot.  Despite the spectacularly precarious handholds he's using to hang onto the mountain and his life, he appears relaxed, engaged - for him - in the equivalent of busman's holiday.  It's leisurely danger for Ethan; one might almost expect to hear Julie Andrews trilling 'Climb Every Mountain' on the soundtrack. 
Then a rock he's been grasping crumbles and Ethan drops about six inches before he grabs onto the mountain again.  As he hangs by five fingers thousands of feet above the earth he doesn't seem terribly concerned until he spots a helicopter. 
It's materialized behind the summit and passes surprisingly close just overhead, casting its shadow downward over Ethan. Instinctively, Ethan flattens himself against the rock surface, as if the copter poses some sort of threat to him.  But when its rotors whir it into the distance Ethan relaxes and resumes his climb. 
A HAIRY OVERHANG (EXT. MOUNTAIN - DAY) 
near the summit Ethan departing from the vertical and is now traversing the mountain with more of his back than his feet exposed to the earth far below.  He's clinging to the mountain almost like a fly walking on the ceiling.  When he reaches for a handhold that will restore him to the vertical, he dislodges a lizard - and manages to catch it before it plunges thousand of feet to oblivion. 
ETHAN Whoaa.. 
He pockets the lizard, climbs the overhang. 
REVERSE ANGLE - SUMMIT 
with Ethan's hand, then Ethan coming into view and making the summit.  He reaches into his pocket and releases the lizard who favors Ethan with a stern reptilian stare by way of gratitude.  To lizard: 
ETHAN You're welcome. 
The lizard scampers off, then a low beeping sound at his back attracts his attention.  He turns to see the source of the beeping, a small package in day-glo colors with a day-glo streamer.  Ethan looks to the sky where the helicopter is now ominously circling back. 
Ethan lifts the day-glo package and waves it in the direction of the copter.  With a distinct lack of enthusiasm. 
The helicopter once again turns, banks and disappears.  Ethan has opened the beeping package and finds a pair of sunglasses. 
ETHAN'S POV SUNGLASSES 
First, a retinal scan. 
ELECTRONIC VOICE Identity confirmed. 
SWANBECK Good morning, Mr. Hunt. 
Swanbeck's face flashes onscreen.  Over his introduction of Nyah is a series of satellite photographs whose subject is so elusive she never seems to give the camera a clean shot. 
SWANBECK'S VOICE Your mission, should you choose to accept it, requires you to recover a stolen item, designated Chimera.  Essential to the mission is the recruitment of a civilian -- a Miss Nyah Nordoff-Hall.  She is a highly capable professional thief currently active in Spain. 
A series of Nyah's 'accomplishments', i.e., warrants, complaints, Interpol summaries of her various criminal activities, as well as glimpses of the elusive Nyah circulating about Seville. 
SWANBECK'S VOICE (cont'd) Her dossier's available on I-COM 3.  You have 48 hours to recruit Ms. Nordoff-Hall and meet me in Seville to receive further details.  Should you or any member of your IM force be caught or killed, the Secretary will disavow all knowledge of your actions. 
Swanbeck's face reappears on screen: 
SWANBECK'S VOICE (cont'd) And Mr. Hunt - the next time you go on vacation, please be good enough to let us know where you're going.  This message will self-destruct in five seconds. 
Ethan removes the glasses, then tosses them into space. 
ETHAN If I let you know where I'm going - 
The glasses explode in a puff of smoke. 
ETHAN (cont'd) - won't be on holiday. 
Ethan, with a fair amount of disgust, gets to his feet and jumps off the mountain, in, what for a moment looks like a suicidal snit.  Then, somewhere hundreds of feet below camera, there's a little puff of color as the tulip-shaped chute pops out of his back-pack.  Begin the sound of a castanets and the animal-like cries of flamenco dancers. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT - ANDALUSIAN VILLA (EVE) 
Bustling in the activity of a large private party, with arriving guests and attentive valets, as a young woman, her face unseen, exits her car and enters the villa. 
A FLASH OF SKIRT AND LACE (INT-EXT. VILLA - FLAMENCO DANCERS - EVE) 
where to the cries of dancers add graceful feminine hands wielding the castanets.  The dancers perform on a raised platform and NYAH NORDOFF-HALL'S face can be glimpsed thru the swirling skirts and pounding heels, looking thru, not at them. 
REVERSE ANGLE - ETHAN 
looking back in a similar way to Nyah; surreal lighting and the relentless chorus of pounding heels seem to isolate them in the crowed party.  Nyah continues to look at Ethan over the shoulder over her wanna-be escort, a very attentive gentleman.  Nyah offers up her empty glass, and the gentleman eagerly takes it to the bar for a refill, leaving Nyah and Ethan looking at one another.  Ethan approaches her. 
She stiffens - he knows too damn much. 
NYAH - right..where is it? 
ETHAN Far right. 
She immediately switches her efforts from top left to the bottom right compartment.  She's utterly nonplussed: 
NYAH Where's the bloody - 
ETHAN (plucking it off his chest, offering it up like a mechanic under the chassis) - torque wrench. 
NYAH - this is very disconerting.. 
ETHAN Hey, you put me here.  I just do what I'm told. 
NYAH - right.. 
She unstraddles him and, with a few deft moves with the torque wrench and carbide pick - and it's open.  She withdraws a velvet pouch and opens the pouch.  Out spills the spectacular necklace. 
NYAH (cont'd) Lovely. (starting to close the safe) Who are you and what's it going to cost me? 
ETHAN (having sat up) I wouldn't do that. 
NYAH Do what? 
The alarm goes off. 
ETHAN That. 
The bathroom is suddenly filled with security guards, gun drawn Senor de l'Arena, looking highly upset, pops in. 
SENOR DE L'ARENA Oh, Senor Keyes, thank God it is you! (in Spanish to security guards, annoyed) It's Senor Keyes, the security engineer. 
ETHAN Well, Senor de l'Arena the goods news is that the heat sensors were activated.   But Miss Nordoff-Hall, my associate - 
Senor de l'Arena kisses Nyah's hand. 
SENOR DE L'ARENA Mucho gusto, senorita. 
ETHAN - did feel that she had rather too long to work on the safe before they triggered the alarm, isn't that right Miss Hall? 
NYAH Oh yes.  Absolutely.  Much too long I should yes. 
Nyah's initial shock and panic slowly gives way to a wary, intensified curiosity - about Ethan. 
ETHAN Under the circumstances I think we would recommend re-setting the senors to respond to a lighter load.  How do you feel about forty kilos, Miss Hall? 
NYAH Indeed. 
ETHAN Well, Senor de l'Arena, there's no reason to disrupt your party any longer.  we have some further concerns about the disposition of your security guards, which you'll receive in our written report by fax in the morning, hard copy to follow.  Shall we? 
He offers Nyah his arm.  They start out.  Ethan immediately stops. 
ETHAN (cont'd) Miss Hall. Haven't you forgotten something? 
Nyah looking genuinely puzzled. 
NYAH The necklace? 
Nyah slowly reaches into her dress and withdraws the glittering string of diamonds and rubies from her bust. 
SENOR DE L'ARENA (a great kidder) What are you trying to do, senorita?  Rob me. 
They all laugh, and Ethan's got her out the door. 
EXT - ANDALUSIAN VILLA (LATE NIGHT - PRE DAWN) 
The stars dimming, the sky a gun metal blue.  Ethan and Nyah emerge from the villa, walking slowly.  Nyah's clearly preoccupied. 
NYAH I'm missing something here, aside from a 500,000 pound necklace.  Even after I botched the job, I could've walked out of there with the bloody thing. 
ETHAN At least you walked. 
NYAH If you weren't going to let me get away with it, why did you let me go thru with it? 
ETHAN Wanted to see how good you were. I'm hoping we might work together. 
NYAH May I say something, no offence?  You look like a gigolo, you sound like a thief, you act like a cop - what the bloody hell do you have in mind? 
He pulls Nyah up to the car, across the seat and half into his arms.  For a long moment it looks like she's in shock.  Then: 
NYAH What's you name? 
ETHAN Ethan Hunt. 
NYAH Well, Ethan Hunt, what is it you want to talk to me about? 
Thru the veil of morning fog, Nyah looks at Ethan.  Her dark eyes suggest wit, and willingness, and longing. 
ETHAN ...more than I thought.. 
They scarcely to move to bring their lips together: 
NYAH Awfully short notice.. 
ETHAN Care to wait a decent interval? 
NYAH Who wants to be decent?.. 
DISSOLVE: 
CLOSE - ETHAN (INT-EXT. SAFEHOUSE - SEVILLE - DAY-EVE) 
sleeping.  His eyes open slowly.  He comes to full consciousness, his head still on the pillow.  Something approaching serious anxiety informs his features.  He lifts his head and looks at his left, angle widening.  Nyah lies on her side facing him, sleeping serenely.  Anxiety on the order of oh-God-this-isn't- approved-recruiting-technique, confirmed.  He lets his head flop back on the pillow.  Then he turns so he and Nyah are profile to- profile.  As he looks at her sleeping his anxiety fades, replaced by curiosity and even wonder.  He lifts his hand and just brushes her cheek.  Her eyes open.  She knows where she is. 
ETHAN So what've you got against spooks? 
Nyah smiles. 
NYAH When they've got your recruiting technique?  Not a thing. 
ETHAN Oh.  Well..this isn't exactly by the book. 
NYAH They've got a book for this? 
ETHAN They've got a book for everything. 
NYAH The only other spook I knew was a liar. Charming but absolutely incapable of telling the truth.  He'd lie about his favorite color.  But then I reckon it's an occupational hazard.  All spies really do is conceal the truth and tell lies. 
ETHAN Not revealing information doesn't necessarily make someone a liar. 
NYAH That's not the point.  In the end what spies rely on is the one thing they think they know that you don't. 
ETHAN Which is? 
NYAH That they're lying. 
Ethan laughs. 
NYAH (cont'd) ..once they know that they can get very very..crosee.. 
Nyah shoulder and moves into Ethan. 
ETHAN So where did I got right? 
NYAH You're not a liar.  Or you're an awfully good one.. (then) ..this thing these blokes pinched.. 
ETHAN I don't know that they 'pinched' it. Don't even know that they're blokes. 
Nyah stops to think about this. 
NYAH Well, then, what I am I doing here?  I assume I'm meant to be some sort of thief-to catch-a-thief.. 
ETHAN So do I.  Sort of. 
Nyah looks at Ethan, a little worried. 
NYAH Spoken like a spook..you ever afraid? 
ETHAN Of what? 
Nyah laughs. 
NYAH Ask a question, you get an answer!.. 
ETHAN Damn, you're beautiful. 
NYAH That's because I'm on my back. 
Ethan sits back, heavily. 
SWANBECK (cont'd) - Hunt, are you listening?.. 
Slowly looking up: 
ETHAN If he didn't want to go anywhere without me, how did you get him on the flight? 
SWANBECK You were there. 
Swanbeck clears his throat.  He turns back to the computer and punches in: MISSION DOUBLE IMAGE.  File open to computer scans of AMBROSE, SEAN, and HUNT, ETHAN, the computer scanning and comparing their features, millimeter by millimeter, stat by stat, as the computer then imposes, with the help of the physiognomy scan, Ethan's face on Ambrose: hence, mission double image. 
ETHAN 
slowly looks up at Swanbeck. 
SWANBECK When I couldn't find you, I had to replace you.  Sean Ambrose was the obvious choice. He double you, what?  Two, three times? 
ETHAN Twice. 
SWANBECK What did you think of him? 
ETHAN You know we had reservations about each other.  Isn't it a little late in the day to be asking me that? 
SWANBECK Not necessarily. 
Swanbeck shows Ethan a photo of airline Captain. 
SWANBECK Airline record list Captain Harold Macintosh as the pilot for Flt 2207.  as far as the media and all governmental agencies are concerned, Captain Macintosh died on the flight, but in fact he missed it.  He did, however make the next flight - in cargo, stuffed into a rather small suitcase considering his size. 
Another photo of an open suitcase, the body in it partially obscured by a ring of police and customs officers. 
SWANBECK (cont'd) Someone on that flight planned an operation designed to down the plane and make it look like an accident.  Someone skillful enough to bring the whole thing off without a hitch but - they don't always get your luggage on the plane, even when you fly first class. 
ETHAN So there's one thing we know Ambrose doesn't. 
SWANBECK Then you do think it was Ambrose. 
Ethan barely nods. 
SWANBECK (cont'd) And you're not surprised. 
Ethan gives Swanbeck a look. 
ETHAN Whatever Nekhorvich was carrying Sean wanted and he wanted to conceal the fact that he took it. 
SWANBECK Enough to kill Nekhorvich and two hundred innocent passengers? 
Ethan smiles. 
ETHAN Sean feels he hasn't done the job unless he leaves a lot of hats on the ground. 
SWANBECK The question is why?  What was this Chimera Nekhorvich was carrying? 
Ethan rises and moves to the window. 
ETHAN Right now only Ambrose knows that. 
SWANBECK In any case, you've got to recover Chimera and bring it to us. 
ETHAN In order to do that, I've got to figure out how he plans to make money with it. 
SWANBECK - right.  In fact since the plane went down our banking sources have confirmed a marked increase in the stock pilling of cash in terrorists accounts. 
ETHAN 'Terrorists?' 
SWANBECK Well you know Nekhorvich's history. You're the one who got him out of the Soviet Union was it still in bio- weapon business. 
ETHAN If that's what you're thinking Ambrose would have set up a bidding situation with any number of buyers before he got on the plane.  Locating him in time to stop something like that - 
SWANBECK - is where Miss Hall comes in. 
ETHAN (blindsided) Excuse me? 
SWANBECK Miss Hall and Ambrose had a relationship which he took very seriously.  She walked away and he's wanting her back ever since.  We believe she's our surest and quickest way of location him. 
ETHAN (acidly) And then what? 
SWANBECK Then makes sure she continues to see him. Gets him confide in her and report to you. 
NYAH But I don't have a conscience.  I'm a bloody thief. 
ETHAN You can be a thief and have a conscience. 
NYAH No.  You can be a thief and have a conscience:  Not me.  Why did you have to tell me about this! (pouring herself a drink) What do I have to do to get away from this guy?  When you're with him, he messes about with your head every waking moment..even now I'll be at some out-of- the-way-place, a tin of caviar and a bottle of Crystal shows up at the table, with two glass, God knows how he finds out at any given moment where I am in the world but he does.  And it looks like he's done it again.  You know his definition of a  true paranoid? 
ETHAN I don't. 
NYAH Someone in possession of all the facts. (she turns away, pauses) Are you telling me I have to do this? 
ETHAN Generally, I don't favor coercing someone. Not when there's a chance my life could end up in their hands. 
NYAH And that's the only reason? 
ETHAN Can you think of a better one? 
NYAH Not me.  I was just hoping you might..or that..somehow in the course of business this got personal as well as physical. 
ETHAN Look, would it make you feel better if I didn't want you to do this? 
NYAH Much. 
ETHAN Then feel better!.. 
Long moment while she looks at him. 
ETHAN (cont'd) Well.  That made all the difference in the world, didn't it? 
Ethan walks out onto the balcony.  She looks at his back. 
NYAH Sean will never be anything but suspicious if he picks up some sort of 'yoo-hoo-I'm- not-nad' message.  Not after the way we broke up. 
ETHAN What wouldn't make him suspicious? 
NYAH Probably that I needed him in some urgent way..destitute - in serious trouble..the kind I couldn't possible sort out myself.. 
Ethan's been smiling slightly. 
ETHAN Serious trouble, Nyah, is something I can always arrange.. 
NYAH IN A SPANISH JAIL 
standing for front and side mug shot.  O.S. sound of teletype continues.  SUPERIMPOSE:  Ethan holding up something the size of a dime: 
ETHAN This little chip sends a coded signal that can be picked up only by our computer. 
On the screen of the GPS computer, a little yellow blip appears pulsating on the screen. 
ETHAN'S VOICE When it's in your ankle we can track you within three feet of anywhere in the world. 
OVER ETHAN AND ONTO COMPUTER SCREEN 
He types a small Interpol bulletin stating that Nyah Nordoff Hall, apprehended March 13 in Seville, is awaiting extradition while the authorities in London, Paris, and Amsterdam squabble over where she's going to be tried first, for the various thefts and burglaries she's committed in the three cities. 
COMPUTER SCREEN (AMBROSE TENT ANNEX - DAY) 
Ambrose picking up on a version of the Interpol bulletin Ethan's put out.  He leans over the screen for a moment, then moves to the window, and stares out thoughtful at the bay, almost as if he were watching... 
EXT - NYAH IN JAIL COURTYARD 
From a beautiful blue sky,  pan down to the courtyard of the jail where Nyah is allowed out for an airing, seemingly alone but being watched by: 
ETHAN AND COMPUTER SCREEN 
His attention fixed on the screen, Ethan stares at satellite shot of Nyah in the jail courtyard. 
INT - PRISON - NYAH 
being allowed a phone call, a prison guard visible b.g.  Cross cut with Ethan. 
ETHAN Look, I can't run your arrest in CNN, but I guarantee he's monitoring every law enforcement agency in the world, for what they might be saying about him, if nothing else - he's got the ability and, we assume, the desire to get you out of there. 
NYAH This doesn't seem to be accomplishing much. 
ETHAN Well, I mean it's not a total loss.  It is keeping a very capable thief off the street.. 
NYAH Very funny..maybe he has heard and doesn't want to know.  Maybe he's lost interest. 
Her guard, b.g. is handed a note. 
As Billy speaks, the visual come on line and Nyah has become visible. 
LUTHER (a jaundiced eye, to Ethan) It certainly is.  How did we get so lucky? 
Ethan pointedly ignore the question. 
POV - MOVING (PALM BEACH - DAY) 
rounding the tip of the bay's crescent, revealing the beach and dock at Ambrose's palm-lined residence. 
NYAH 
The speedboat's engine's are cut.  Nyah looks momentarily stricken. 
POV NYAH (MOVING) 
a lone slender figure silhouetted at the end of the dock, still as the piling besides which it stands.  But the features remain obscured by the sun at his back. 
ETHAN 
leans forward as the slender figure grows larger, 
BILLY (to Ethan) Is it him, then? 
POV - MOVING 
The tide is too low for the boat to dock, making it necessary for he boat to approach the shore.  The slender figure moves off the end of the dock and onto the beach. 
THE CIGARETTE 
idles into shadow water but the props start chewing into the sand - the boatman grumbles he can't get any closer.  The slender figure has moved to the shoreline and the angle of the light changes - Ambrose is waiting. 
Nyah hesitates only a flicker of an instant, slips over the side into thigh-high water without taking her eyes off Ambrose. Ambrose strides right on into the bay.  as they are just an arm's length apart: 
NYAH 
takes a deep breath, presses the button to scramble the transponder. 
WITH ETHAN (INT. SHEEPFARM SAFEHOUSE) 
The picture abruptly goes dead. 
BILLY Damn.  Just when it was about to get interesting. 
ETHAN It's okay.  She scrambled the transmission.  Luther, continue feeding the GPS her position. 
Luther punches in.  The signal - and the global coordinates are given.  They wait. 
INT - SPACE 
The satellite positions itself. 
WITH THE THREE 
ETHAN Can't we speed this up. 
Luther shoots him a disgusted look. 
LUTHER With what?  This is the only computer that'll do this. 
THE SIGNALS AND PHOTOS 
start to bounce back, growing larger and larger on the screen, until:  Nyah can be seen, water up to her thighs, lingering in Ambrose's arms with each blow-up, and linger.  And lingering. 
BILLY - right.  Now there's a bloke who knows how to deliver a proper welcome.  Don't get me wrong, mate.  You were quite hospitable.  Is it him, then? 
Ethan's look suggests he's worried about lapse in recruiting judgment. 
LUTHER It is, Billy. 
BILLY Then we got'em! 
ETHAN We don't know what we've got because we don't know what he's got, where he's got it or what he's doing in Sydney with it. 
Ethan strides away from the screen, the edge in his voice and the move not altogether lost on either Luther or Billy. 
INT - THE BAY (EXT. PALM BEACH - DAY) 
Perfectly poised, still loosely in his arms, Nyah returns Ambrose's penetrating gaze with a pleasant, clear eyed one. 
AMBROSE (yes) Mmmm. 
NYAH And my room? 
A long moment.  Ambrose walks to a mirrored wall.  The mirrors are sliding doors.  With a sweeping gesture, he slides one of the mirrors back and reveals a wardrobe of beautiful designer clothes. 
AMBROSE Thought you could use a little something to wear. 
Nyah stares at the spectacular wardrobe.  Ambrose pulls out a slinky Armani and drapes it on the bed. 
AMBROSE ( cont'd) Try it on.. 
Nyah hesitates. 
AMBROSE (cont'd) Go ahead.  I'm dying to see if I remembered your size.. 
Nyah picks it up. 
NYAH No changing room? 
Ambrose sits on a chair by the window and waits.  Her blouse, belt, skirt, fall on the bed.  As her slender arm reaches down to pick up the Armani: 
AMBROSE 
grips her wrist, the flimsy Armani dangling in the air. 
CLOSE - NYAH 
meeting Ambrose's look. 
NYAH You're not interested in seeing how it looks. 
AMBROSE Oh, I am.  Later.. 
The Armani falls in a fragile heap on the floor. 
CLOSE - ETHAN (DUSK) 
standing off to one side, listening to Nekhorvich's voice. 
NEKHORVICH ..therefore in a search for our hero, Bellerophon, we created a monster, Chimera. 
LUTHER Why's Nekhorvich going on about an old Greek myth? 
ETHAN Nekhorvich specialized in recombining DNA molecules.  In the myth, Bellerophon killed Chimera, a recombinant monster with the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent who plagued the ancient world.  I think Nekhorvich has created a monster virus in Chimera and apparently the means to kill it in Bellerophon. 
LUTHER That simple, huh? 
ETHAN Why not? 
CLOSE - NYAH (INT. AMBROSE BEDROOM - DUSK) 
lying back on a pillow, looking and off into space to right off camera.  She hears Ambrose's voice, with Ethan's voice 
AMBROSE'S VOICE/ETHAN'S VOICE Damn, you're beautiful.. 
Nyah reacts as if she'd been rapped on the nose, her eyes moist.  She turns abruptly to camera. 
NYAH Did you say something? 
AMBROSE 
leaning on an elbow, looking down. 
AMBROSE I said you're beautiful, Nyah. 
NYAH Only because..it's spring..chalk it up (looking him dead in the eye) - to spring fever. 
Ambrose, amused, lights a cigarette and inhaling: 
AMBROSE Won't do, love.  It's not spring.  It's nearly autumn..You're in Oz.  everything's upside down and backwards here. 
NYAH (more direct) Maybe that's it, then.  Everything's upside down and backwards... 
CLOSE - ETHAN (SHEEP FARM SAFEHOUSE - DUSK) 
ETHAN Luther..get us everything you can on the outbreak of influenza on Bruny Island last month, including photos of the victims. 
LUTHER Right.  I guess there aren't many flu epidemics in the middle of summer. 
AMBROSE (cont'd) Don't ever question my judgment again. 
DISSOLVE: 
EMPTY FRAME (EXT. RANDWICK RACE TRACK - DAY) 
with no sound, the back stretch an unrecognizable blur until horses at high speed burst into the frame bringing with them the sight and sound of their great nostrils snorting and gasping for jostling and going to the whip, the sound of the crowd overwhelming all but the announcer's voice carrying everyone around the far turn and into the home stretch with a ringing, controlled frenzy. 
EXT - PRIVATE BLEACHER (DAY) 
Nyah and Ambrose rising as the horses cross the finish. 
AMBROSE (surprised) You won. 
NYAH (looking at her ticket) I suppose I did. 
AMBROSE What made you pick that nag?  She'd never won a bloody thing. 
NYAH 'Thief in the Night?' 
AMBROSE Say no more.  I'm off to grab a drink. Still favor Bellinis? 
She smiles, a little shakily.  Ambrose leaves. 
A VOICE Naturally Vain.. 
It's Billy passing behind her. 
NYAH Pardon me? 
BILLY 'Naturally Vain.'  In the fourth. Check her out.  She's due. 
Billy hands her a chest sheet and moves on.  She opens it to the fourth race.  Taped onto 'Naturally Vain' is a small plastic piece with the note.  she regards the note, places the plastic piece in her ear. 
ETHAN'S VOICE You can speak as if I'm right by your side. 
NYAH (picking up binoculars) Where are you? 
ETHAN'S VOICE At the mounting enclosure, just off the tracks at two o'clock. 
THRU BINOCULARS - NYAH'S POV - MOVING 
thru the crowd onto the track over to the pre-post paddock where an animated gaggle of owners, heavy batters and investerace touts surround it.  Only Ethan is stock still - and looking up at Nyah. 
CLOSE - NYAH 
a swift intake of breath as she see him. 
ETHAN How's it going?  Everything okay? 
NYAH Just like old times. 
ETHAN Just like old times? 
NYAH Just about.. 
She appears to be the picture of unruffled sang-froid. 
ETHAN Tell me who you've run into at Ambrose's. 
ETHAN'S POV (THRU GLASSES) 
moving from Nyah to the champagne bar just behind where Ambrose is seen greeting someone in the crowd and they sit at a corner table in front of the window overlooking the track. 
NYAH (a breath, then:) Near as I can tell, there's at least a half-dozen other blokes about the place. Maybe more.  Hugh Stamp, an old mate of Sean's, is the only one I recognize, bit of a creep and then some.. 
POV ETHAN 
Stamp, stands a pillar, his finger bandages, looking glum and looking down at Nyah. 
ETHAN We know him.  He's over your left shoulder, looking right at you as you go on.. 
NYAH - Michael, his driver's an Aussie, new to me.  Then there's the blokes in the annex at the back of the house. 
ETHAN Have you met them? 
NYAH Annex is strictly off limits to me and they never come to the main house, Michael even takes their meals to them all but shoves them under the door. 
ETHAN (looking into Champagne Bar) I've no doubt. 
STAMP Get your bet down? 
NYAH Just.. 
She rises.  Stamp waits only a moment then follows. 
AT THE PRIVATE BLEACHERS (DAY) 
everyone's on their feet, the horses are in the backstretch. 
Ambrose is watching the race through binoculars.  Nyah comes up behind and puts her arms around him.  With her left hand she puts the envelope into his right jacket pocket. 
AMBROSE Your nag is making a run for it on the outside! (lowering binoculars) Bloody hell, Nyah! 
She's momentarily startled.  Then: 
AMBROSE (CONT'D) You picked another winner! 
NYAH Well, that's good, isn't? 
A BLOW UP (INT. SHEEP FARM IMF SAFEHOUSE - DAY) 
of a shot from a digital camera card. 
ETHAN'S VOICE Dr. Segi Gradski, Nekhorvich's colleague and lifelong friend.. 
The photos is coded with the data in the lower left hand corner, 01.27.99, the time in the right, 10:02:56 A.M.  Burned into the photo is '20 hours, 03 minutes after exposure.' 
Ethan paunches in. 
ETHAN'S VOICE (cont'd) Twenty hours and three minutes after exposure. (sotto voce) Twenty hours. 
Ethan doesn't say anything for a moment, then goes on to the next photo on the card: '25 hours, 40 minutes after exposure.'  It's Gradski again.  Gradski's eyes are darkly circled, his skull look mottled. 
ETHAN Six hours later. 
Another photo: '31 hours, 30 minutes after exposure.' Gradski's bleeding from nose, mouth and ears, the skin eruptions are pervasive, his body an open wound. 
ETHAN ( cont'd) Six more hours. 
The next photo.  '34 hours, 25 minutes after exposure.'  Gradski's body at rest. 
ETHAN (cont'd) Three hours after that, Gradski was dead.. 
LUTHER Here's a victim from the Bruny Island outbreak. 
The victim's face shows a devastation undeniably like Gradski's. 
A long, long moment as Ethan, Luther, and Billy sit in silence. 
BILLY Oh, happy day. 
Ethan looks again at the first photo of Gradski. 
ETHAN Nekhorvich said 'However we travel, I must arrive at my destination within 20 hours hours of departure.' 
CLOSE - NYAH (EXT. AMBROSE VERANDA - LATE AFTERNOON) 
Nyah is on the balcony.  Ambrose enters with two glasses of champagne. 
AMBROSE To Australia.  It's made so many convicts feel at home.  Here's hoping it does the same for you.. 
He laughs.  She doesn't. 
NYAH Sean, there's something I've been meaning to talk to you about... Isn't going to be easy for me to say. 
AMBROSE (jocular) Then don't say it. 
NYAH I don't know what to do about you, Sean. I'm more than a bit muddled.  I need time. 
AMBROSE To do what? 
NYAH Sort it all out. 
AMBROSE And you're going to have time.  There's been a change of plans. 
NYAH A change of plans? 
AMBROSE Yes.  We won't be able to have dinner tonight.  Something's come up.  I hope you don't mind. 
MCCLOY What's happening here?  You're dead! 
NEKHORVICH Fatigued, certainly.  But dead is a little extreme.  On the other hand, when me dear Gradski had your pulse and blood pressure he has less than ten hours to live. 
MCCLOY (confused) It was in the bloody papers, on the telly..what's this about Gradski? 
NEKHORVICH You are infected with Chimera, my friend. 
INT - AMBROSE BEDROOM (NIGHT) NYAH 
is on the phone. 
NYAH International, please.  I'd like to make a reservation on the next available flight tonight. 
OPERATOR Where to? 
NYAH Where is next available flight going? 
The operator answers. 
NYAH Fine.  I'll take it. 
She hangs up, goes to the door.  The house is eerily silent. 
POV - STAIRWELL (NIGHT) 
a play of shadows, the sound of the kitchen fridge. 
CLOSE - NYAH 
Moves softly downstairs & hesitates at bottom, glancing about. 
NYAH Ulrich?..Ulrich!... 
Silence.  she goes into the kitchen.  No one.  She goes out the door. 
OVER NYAH'S SHOULDER - MOVING (EXT. SYDNEY - NIGHT) 
running pell-mell down to the shore.  Stops.  Looks outside the small skiff moored at the end of the dock.  It's dark and she decides to chance it.  She moves onto the pier, trying to glide by the boathouse.  A figure darts out and grabs her.  She tries to scream but can't.  The figure whips her around and she sees: 
ETHAN Easy, easy, easy, shhh! 
NYAH Oh Ethan!.. 
She throws her arms around him. 
ETHAN Are you okay? 
NYAH I am now.  Get me out of here.  Just get me out of here. 
ETHAN It's going to be okay. 
He holds her. 
INT - HOSPITAL ROOM 
McCloy's strapped down, but manages to reach the call button and push it.  Again and again. 
NEKHORVICH No use, my friend.  The medical staff wants no part of this.  Doctors don't fancy the idea of dying any more than anybody else. 
McCloy stares at Nekhorvich for a long moment. 
MCCLOY How could I possibly be infected? 
Nekhorvich shrugs. 
NEKHORVICH That's exactly what Gradski said - 27 hours before he died.  With Chimera, the most minute exposure can be fatal. 
McCloy again looks at his vital sign on the monitor.  He grips the edge of the hospital bed. 
NEKHORVICH But then you shouldn't be feeling to ill. not for another three of four hours anyway. 
McCloy breaks a fresh sweat in a sudden spasm of anxiety. 
MCCLOY You have Bellerophon. 
NEKHORVICH (mildly) Do I? 
MCCLOY You took it!  All of it!  And what if I need it? 
ETHAN Luther, do you have the building up and running? 
Luther punches in and up comes a squat little island a hundred yards off shore, connected to the mainland by a wooden bridge. 
ETHAN (cont'd) That's not exactly it. 
LUTHER Sorry, that it a Biocyte facility, their storage structure.. 
ETHAN Nyah still on the property? 
BILLY She hasn't left it. 
Then: 
LUTHER Okay, here you go - 
As Luther speaks, the building - on his computer graphics, one with the BIOCYTE PHARMACEUTICALS ELEVATORS AND RENDERINGS, is being rapidly morphed to three dimension existence off the rendering specifications by Luther, as if the building itself were being constructed at a madly rapid pace, from its foundation to its reinforced steel structure, to its honeycombing of floors, to its outer skin.  Luther's reconstitution of the building lot static, but moving around and above it even as he proceeds. 
ETHAN Let's start from the inside out. 
LUTHER All storage and production of Chimera is done here, in this lab on the forty-second floor, the heart of the building. 
BIOCYTE LAB 
Only about eight personnel -- chemists in lab coats, workers in bio-containment suits, etc. -- populate the lab, passing through security door and air locks, monitoring the virus stock, pading the injection gun, etc. 
LUTHER'S VOICE Chimera itself is kept in two places: in production vials in an incubation room and housed in a small airtight chamber - inside three injection guns. 
BILLY'S VOICE Mate, you kill it in both places, we're laughin' and we go home. 
WITH LUTHER AND ETHAN 
ETHAN Now how to get in there. 
LUTHER No garage entrance.  Lobby's protected by five guards on rotating patrol. 
Ethan watches the rendition of the Biocyte lobby on screen 
CLOSE - AMBROSE (NIGHT) 
in overhead light, his eyes are dark pits, somehow underlying her saturnine intensity: 
AMBROSE If you look at Hunt's operational history, he invariably favors misdirection and deception. For a start he won't go into Biocyte from the ground where he has to risk confrontation with security. 
ETHAN Not going in from the ground.  Show me the atrium. 
INT - BIOCYTE ATRIUM SHAFT 
The height and extent of the atrium are revealed, as well as its conclusion in a glass floor in the ceiling of the lab. 
LUTHER'S VOICE (unhappily) The atrium?  One of a kind.  Runs down the center of the building.  Provides 24-hour natural light via mirrors and daylight storage cells.  Optimal growing conditions for the virus.  Ends in a glass floor which doubles as part of the lab's ceiling. 
WITH LUTHER AND ETHAN 
Luther sees the glint growing in Ethan's eye. 
LUTHER Hey, atrium roof closes at sundown. 
EXT - BIOCYTE ATRIUM SHAFT 
As the sun sets, the louvers of the atrium roof begin closing. 
LUTHER'S VOICE And if the louvers are open for more than thirty seconds at night, the Civil Emergency alarms are tipped.  Those even I can't stop.  Thirty seconds total to get you in and the cable out. 
ETHAN Security? 
LUTHER Thirty-second opening in the roof and a 250-foot drop. 
ETHAN I'm not waiting 48 hours.  When we're done at Biocyte, if she's not out of Ambrose's, I'm going in and getting her out. 
CLOSE - AMBROSE (NIGHT) 
AMBROSE No, Hunt will prefer to engage in some sort of acrobatic insanity to enter Biocyte somewhere through the atrium where security is minimal.. 
Suddenly there's the roar of helicopter rotors. 
ETHAN (EXT. SYDNEY - NIGHT) 
is poised, upside down, on cable against the Sydney skyline. 
reaches down and presses a silent beeper. 
WITH LUTHER (INT. VAN) 
sees a little red diamond-shaped light pop on his screen 
LUTHER Transponder activated..Reading package and Cable is clean. (exhaling, relieved) He's on his way. 
Staring at the buildings control panels. 
ETHAN (INT. ATRIUM) 
hugs the floor just out of sight of the befuddled security guard. 
AMBROSE'S VOICE He'll make the attempt at the only possible time for both of us, 11 P.M. - when the guards rotate and the buildings air-filtration generators go active, covering the sound of his break-in.. 
WITH LUTHER 
LUTHER Ethan, the generators are about to go active. We'll be out of contact for eleven minutes. 
CLOSE - GENERATORS 
dark and silent. 
GENERATORS 
turn over and roar to life. 
ETHAN AT BOTTOM OF ATRIUM 
cuts into the glass floor, pops it out, and drops thru the opening.  None of it's heard under the generators.. 
Ethan drops onto the lab floor and heads across the lab and up the ramp to the hot zone. 
AMBROSE'S VOICE The frequency of the generators operate to our advantage - cutting radio communication from his team for the next eleven minutes.. 
INT - BIOCYTE LOBBY (NIGHT) 
Stamp, flanked by several of his team in Biocyte security guard uniform, crosses the lobby toward a pair of actual Biocyte security guards who appear more puzzled than alarmed at this unexpected influx. 
ONE OF THE GUARDS What's this, then?  Reinforcements? 
STAMP Not exactly, mate. 
WITH LUTHER (INT. CONSTRUCTION VAN - NIGHT) 
His attention in drawn to a spot on the grid where Nyah's transponder blip, a circular yellow one in contrast to Ethan's, is moving.  Troubled: 
LUTHER Billy.  I think we got a problem.  Nyah's on the wing.  Up early.  Billy, do you copy? 
INT - CHOPPER 
BILLY Exactly where is she? 
LUTHER ..in the building... 
BILLY'S VOICE Say again. Sounds like you're saying 'she's in the building.' 
LUTHER I am. She is. 
AMBROSE'S VOICE Ethan does it the hard way to avoid confrontation.  Neutralizing security guards is simply too distasteful to him.. 
INT - BIOCYTE LOBBY 
The two guards who had greeted Stamp and his arriving team lie inert on the lobby floor. 
AMBROSE'S VOICE I've never found that a problem... 
WITH BILLY (INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT) 
Billy's so surprised he momentarily gets loose with the copter and it banks off.  As it and he recover: 
BILLY Right. Well, then. She's not likely to be alone. is she? 
LUTHER'S VOICE The question Is 'how many of 'em?' I can't get thru to Ethan. Not 'til the generators go off. 
BILLY When's that? 
LUTHER'S VOICE Not for another eight and a half minutes. 
The X-Ray microscope shows the individual seed-cells sticking together, some exploding, then all movement ceasing.  The Liquid itself is suddenly shod thru fluorescent sparks before it congeals to an opaque mush. 
FIRST COMPUTER VOICE (cont'd) Alert.  Chimera stock life..terminated.. 
Simultaneously with the seed stock, Ethan's damaging both the working seed in-vitro virus. 
WIDE ANGLE - HOT ZONE 
Ethan places a little plastique on a timer and runs up a ramp to the decontaminant air lock at the back entrance to the hot zone. 
BILLY'S VOICE How're we doin', then? 
LUTHER He should've have killed the virus in the incubation area..Nyah's exited the elevator on the same level as the lab. 
BILLY'S VOICE What can we do' mate? 
LUTHER (staring at them) Hope he kills all the bugs before the yellow dot gets to the red one. 
CLOSE - LUTHER'S SCREEN 
The read and yellow blips are now on the same plane.  The yellow dot moves toward the red one as if drawn by a slow motion magnet. 
DOWN ANGLE - ETHAN 
looking up as his entire body is hit with air like he's a wind tunnel.  When the air flow ceases, a green light goes on. 
COMPUTER VOICE Subject is contaminate free.  Zero contaminate factor.  Subject contaminate free. 
ETHAN - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM 
heads up a ramp to the three injection guns.  Hands in gloves he reaches into the chamber for one of the injection guns. 
LUTHER'S VOICE He's still got three injection guns in the test lab..They're loaded with doses of Chimera which he'll destroy by firing into a hyper-thermal chamber. 
He places the barrel of the gun, seals the chamber, and fires. There's a tiny flash of light.  Ethan withdraws the gun. 
INT - CONSTRUCTION VAN 
Luther's sweating it as the clock counts down:  :30, :29, :28.. 
LUTHER - twenty-seven, twenty-six, twenty-five, come on, Ethan we're almost there!  I-I'm off sensitive for this.. 
In a spasm of anxiety Luther bolts to his feet, wipes his brow. 
LUTHER (cont'd) - eighteen seconds, the generators'll be off and Ethan's back on line.. 
Luther glances thru the van window only to see reflected in the van side mirror: 
MIRROR REFLECTION - CHROME BUMPER (EXT. CONSTRUCTION VAN) 
reflected in it is the face of a digital clock, its red LED illuminating the clock's numbers fourteen - thirteen - twelve - 
WITH LUTHER 
LUTHER (realizing what he's in for) Oh - oh - oh - 
Even as he moans he's frantically ripping out the computer and cords dangling, hotfoots toward the van exit. 
INT - HOT ZONE - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM 
Ethan fires the second injection gun.  Picks up the third and last.  He pauses as he's about to fire it, staring intently suddenly the gun is held by: 
NEKHORVICH 
who turns the barrel from the hyper-thermal chamber and releases into his wrist. 
BACK TO ETHAN - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM 
whose vision of of Nekhorvich fades.  Still thinking of Nekhorvich he continues to stare at the gun for another moment and before he can fire: 
INT - SHEEP FARM IMF SAFEHOUSE 
The bomb's LED readout shows 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.. As it reaches 0 a small light on the bomb suddenly stops its incessant blinking. 
EXT - VAN 
explodes.  Saw horses and dirt fly. 
INT - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM - ETHAN 
Ambrose cocks his weapon. 
AMBROSE (cont'd) I'm waiting. 
NYAH (not much more than body length from Ethan) This isn't exactly working out the way you thought it would, Ethan.  Sorry. 
Finger on the injection trigger, she rises and turns the barrel on her arm, firing.  The sound of the air pressure pushing the virus into her is unmistakable, as is the circle of tiny puncture wounds on her skin.  Nyah moves in front of Ethan, covering him, as she turns to face Ambrose. 
ETHAN 
shocked by Nyah's gesture but as she addresses Ambrose he resets the 'Countdown' on his chronometer to twenty hours.  As it drops into the nineteen: 
AMBROSE (frustrated in the extreme) You..bitch! 
She's been laughing away with Ethan: 
NYAH You're not going to shoot, Sean.  Not this bitch.  She's worth thirty-seven million pounds. 
CLOSE - ETHAN'S HANDS 
fingers press a red button on a tiny detonator.  There's a bright heat flash from the hot zone and an explosion of gas and water -- the plastique killing any airborne virus. 
Ethan uses the diversion to grab Nyah and run with her to the far side of the lab, behind a stock of horizontal cylinders. 
INT - LAB 
Ambrose and team recover from the explosion and begin firing on the tanks protecting Ethan and Nyah, surrounding the two with fire and jets of released steam. 
INT - LAB - ETHAN AND NYAH 
behind the stack of tanks.  Ethan launches an explosive down a short hallway, blowing a hole in the building's exterior wall. 
INT - ENTRANCES TO THE LAB 
A group of Biocyte security guards enter from behind Ambrose and team and catch them off-guard.  All hell breaks loose. 
INT - LAB - ETHAN AND NYAH 
ETHAN (outraged) What did you think you were doing! 
NYAH I wasn't thinking!  Just..trying to keep you from getting hurt, that's all. 
This hits Ethan with the force of a blow. 
ETHAN - you who don't have a conscience. 
NYAH (something of surprise to her) I guess I lied..You can't get both of us out of here, can you? 
ETHAN No. 
NYAH Then you'll have to kill me before it's too late.  Before I start killing people. 
ETHAN No. 
NYAH I'm infected with Chimera.  You know you don't have a choice.  Just do it now. 
She puts Ethan's gun to her forehead. 
NYAH (cont'd) For god's sake, get it over with. 
THE HAMMER 
pulls back. 
CLOSE - ETHAN 
He can't fire, lower the hammer. 
ETHAN We've got 19 hours and 57 minutes before you start killing anybody.  I'll get Bellerophon into your system by then. Just stay alive.  I'm not gonna lose you. 
Ethan runs from the cover of the tanks toward the exploded wall once in the open, he exchanges direct gunfire with Ambrose's team, wounding a couple men.  He reaches the wall and dives thru, camera with him as he drops 25 stories, the sound of gunfire in the air all around him. 
Less than a hundred feet from the ground a small dark chute deploys and Ethan is lost from view beneath it. 
PANNING SHOT - PAINTINGS (INT. CULTURAL ARTIFACT CENTER) 
of Aborigine paintings, eerie patterns made of man and nature phantasmagorical, like the patterns that form under the eyelids shortly before sleep.  B.G. the haunting notes of didgeridoo insure they're not being overheard. 
SWANBECK (reading the paintings titles) 'Dreaming of Birds and Flying Fox,' 'Bushfire Dreaming,'  'Wind Dreaming,' -- oddly appropriate - 
ETHAN Wrong.  All we've got to worry about is Ambrose.  Nyah will take care of Nyah. 
BILLY What are you talking about? 
ETHAN Unless we dose her with Bellerophon on the next ninety-seven minutes, Nyah will kill herself.  So, first things, first. Swanbeck said there's no cash movement from any monitored terrorist accounts. 
EXT - BEAR ISLAND CAR PARK 
McCloy's black limousine is in the car park. 
ETHAN'S VOICE Confirms what Ambrose is gonna do - 
INT - TUNNEL - BEAR ISLAND 
Barrels of toxic materials line the walls, as an armed guard patrols the corridor, leading into the main chamber, where we follow McCloy into 
INT - SLABHOUSE 
McCloy enters and begins pacing. 
ETHAN'S VOICE (CONT'D) - who he's doing it with, and where he's gonna do it. 
EXT - MOTORCYCLE AND LINE OF VEHICLES (DAY) 
speed along an isolated road in close formation before turning onto a side road, revealed as leading to a bridge across a small strip of water to a small island. 
EXT - BEAR ISLAND - LANDWARD SIDE (DAY) 
As the cycles and vehicles cross the bridge and approach the front gate, the camera swings around the side of the island establishing the geography and the six cannon emplacements before coming to a stop on 
EXT - BEAR ISLAND - SEAWARD CLIFF - ETHAN 
scaling the seaward side of the island with minimal gear EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER - BLUFF 
resting like a giant locust, half hidden by a cluster of trees on the bluff overlooking Bear Island. 
Billy's at the controls, with binoculars, maintaining surveillance of the island and environs. 
In the back, Luther is at Work on his GPS computer. 
BILLY'S VOICE Ethan's out from under the bridge and on the south-east face.. 
EXT - CLIFF/VIEW OF TUNNEL 
Ethan climbs the side of the cliff. 
BILLY'S VOICE Ethan, Ambrose and his tem have over the bridge - 
ETHAN Copy that. 
Ethan reaches the clifftop and sees armed guards patrolling. 
BILLY'S VOICE You all right, mate?  From here it looks like very security.  What's it look like like from there? 
ETHAN Risky. 
He's over the top and moves swiftly to cover. 
Ethan surprises and kills a perimeter guard, then runs to a length of grating and lifts one of the panels. 
Ethan climbs down through the grating in the roof of the tunnel. Using a bar to swing down, he breaks a second guard's neck and drops to the floor. 
EXT - BEAR ISLAND - ENTRANCE (DAY) 
Ambrose and team drive through the entry gate -- passing its BIOCYTE PHARMACEUTICALS sign and various no-nonsense warnings of 'No Trespassing,' etc. -- before Biocyte security guards close it behind them. 
INT - TUNNEL - NEAR THE GRATING 
ETHAN Breached the structure at the ten o'clock grating.  In the tunnel moving toward the target. 
Ethan begins heading down the tunnel. 
INT - SLABHOUSE BUILDING 
Ambrose and team enter, where McCloy and his CHEMIST and ACCOUNTANT are waiting.  As Stamp stands back, observing, and Wallis sets up a laptop, Ambrose walks up to a refectory-like table and stands opposite McCloy.  Ambrose reaches into his coat and puts two cannisters on the table in front of McCloy.  McCloy's chemist picks up the cannisters and inserts them into two chambers connected to his microscope. 
CHEMIST It's a DNA match.  The blood's loaded with Chimera. 
An insert of the microscope plate shows the two samples, as Bellerophen destroys Chimera. 
AMBROSE -- now here's the way it's going to work..Wallis, the shares outstanding are.. 
WALLIS Ninety-three point four million. 
AMBROSE Which means, Mr. McCloy, we have to get our hands on four hundred and eighty thousand options.  We'll borrow your thirty million to buy those options.  Your stock's never sold above thirty-one dollars a share.  We'll agree to buy at fifty. AMBROSE (cont'd) When your stock goes north of two hundred, and it will, those options will be worth billions.  We can borrow whatever we need to buy the 48,000,000 shares, fifty-one percent of Biocyte. 
MCCLOY Outrageous.  I won't let you take control of my company. 
AMBROSE Sit down.  You'll be a billionaire.  Better than being broke.  I've got terrorists and other pharmaceutical companies standing in line.  Ball's in your court, Mr. McCloy. 
INT - TUNNEL - OUTSIDE THE SLABHOUSE ROOM DOORS 
Ethan pulls a can of explosive material form his pack.  He rolls it towards the double doors, and it stops just before reaching them.  Then, pointing his gun to the ceiling, he fires into the air. 
INT - SLABHOUSE ROOM - AMBROSE 
hears a noise and looks to Stamp, who heard it as well. Stamp nods to two guards to check it out.  They head across the room to the double doors. 
INT - TUNNEL - OUTSIDE THE SLABHOUSE ROOM DOORS - ETHAN 
waits for the right moment before raising his and firing at the can of explosives.  Just as it ignites, the guards open the doors and are blown back by force of the explosion. 
INT - SLABHOUSE ROOM - AMBROSE 
reacts and turns toward the explosion.  Amidst the flames and debris, a single white dove comes flying into the room.  And beyond it, Ambrose can see Ethan Hunt in silhouette walking slowly past the doorway. 
AMBROSE Run that bastard down. 
Orders are shouted, and guards, along with Stamp, hotfoot it down the tunnel-corridor in the direction of the explosion. 
INT - TUNNEL - STAMP AND GUARDS 
run down the tunnel.  The guards move commando-style, directed by Stamp's hand signals. 
INT - SLABHOUSE - MCCLOY AND AMBROSE 
Ambrose loads his gun and drags the tip of the barrel along the table. 
AMBROSE We're running short on time, Mr. McCloy. We've got to conclude our business. 
McCloy pauses only a moment before nodding to his accountant. 
MCCLOY Yes, start the transfer. 
The accountant begins working on his laptop. 
AMBROSE (to Wallis) Follow it.  Let me know. 
INT - TUNNEL - STAMP AND GUARDS 
pass a couple of doorways.  A pigeon flies past Stamp's face and he stops.  As he turn, Ethan Lowers himself from a hiding place in the ceiling.  Stamp and Ethan pull their guns on one another. They're in a face-off until they both agree to drop their guns, but Stamp catches his in mid-air and points it back at Ethan. 
ETHAN You broke our deal. 
STAMP You're too trusting.  Raise your hands slowly. 
As Ethan raises his hands, he pulls the pin on a grenade and then kicks it between Stamp's legs.  The handle flies off:  It's live. When Stamp looks down in surprise at the grenade, Ethan kicks out his gun. 
Trying to escape the grenade, Stamp smashes into Ethan and seems to have hit him in the jaw.  Both hit the ground as the grenade explodes, with Stamp appearing to have the upper hand. 
INT - SLABHOUSE 
As everyone waits for the transfer to complete, the grenade explodes out in the tunnel.  McCloy and his accountant freeze with alarm as a sprinkling of dust settles on the room. 
AMBROSE (to the accountant) Keep it going. 
STAMP'S VOICE Sean, this rat's reached the end of the maze. 
AMBROSE (into walkie-talkie) Is he alive? 
STAMP'S VOICE More or less. 
AMBROSE Bring him to me. 
INT - HELICOPTER - BILLY AND LUTHER 
Luther has the GPS computer starting to access the satellite. 
BILLY (nervously) We're due to take off. 
