MOONRISE KINGDOM 
Written by 
Wes Anderson & Roman Coppola 
May 1, 2011 
INT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. DAY 
A landing at the top of a crooked, wooden staircase. There is a threadbare, braided rug on the floor. There is a long, wide corridor decorated with faded paintings of sailboats and battleships. The wallpapers are sun-bleached and peeling at the corners except for a few newly-hung strips which are clean and bright. A small easel sits stored in the corner. 
Outside, a hard rain falls, drumming the roof and rattling the gutters. 
A ten-year-old boy in pajamas comes up the steps carefully eating a bowl of cereal as he walks. He is Lionel. Lionel slides open the door to a low cabinet under the window. He takes out a portable record player, puts a disc on the turntable, and sets the needle into the spinning groove. 
A child's voice says over the speaker: 
RECORD PLAYER (V.O.) In order to show you how a big symphony orchestra is put together, Benjamin Britten has written a big piece of music, which is made up of smaller pieces that show you all the separate parts of the orchestra. 
As Lionel listens, three other children wander out of their bedrooms and down to the landing. 
The first is an eight-year-old boy in a bathrobe. He is Murray. The second is a nine-year-old boy in white boxer shorts and a white undershirt. He is Rudy. The third is a twelve-year-old girl in a cardigan sweater with knee-high socks and brightly polished, patent-leather shoes. She is Suzy. She carries a one-month-old striped kitten. 
The boys drop down to the floor next to their brother. They lie on their stomachs with their chins propped up on their fists, listening. 
Suzy sits in the windowsill. She opens a book called Shelly and the Secret Universe. There is an illustration on the cover of a young gymnast with a glowing amulet around her neck. 
Suzy starts to read -- then pauses. She lowers her book. She raises a pair of junior binoculars to her eyes. She looks out into the rain. 
EXT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. DAY 
A rickety, three-story, stone-and-shingle house on a hillside with turrets and a widow's walk. A weather vane swings creaking on the roof. Tree tops sway in a cluster below. The sea is almost invisible in the misting rain, and the mainland is a shadow across the sound. Suzy sits in the high window, watching. 
TITLES OVER: 
The family stuck indoors all day out of the rain. 
In bedrooms, bathrooms, and corridors, we see the boys. They shoot marbles. They throw jacks. They play cards. They eat grilled cheese sandwiches together in the kitchen. 
In half-open doorways, we see the parents. Mr. Bishop is a tall, fifty-year-old man in Madras trousers and horn-rimmed glasses. He reads the newspaper and drinks coffee. Mrs. Bishop is a tan, forty-five-year-old woman in a Lilly Pulitzer-type wrap-around skirt. She washes her hair, topless, in the kitchen sink. 
In windows, we see Suzy with her binoculars. She watches wet branches shaking in the woods. She watches a man in a slicker fishing from a row-boat. She watches a white colt in a field. She eats a bowl of tomato soup alone in the pantry. 
In the distance, a seaplane flies by below the clouds. 
CUT TO: 
The edge of a cliff above a white beach. A rocky peninsula curls into the background. Brisk wind rustles the tall grass. A fifty-year-old man, bald on top with long hair on the sides, stands next to a surveyor's levelling instrument on a tripod. He wears rubber boots and a parka. He is the narrator. He speaks to the camera: 
NARRATOR This is the island of New Penzance. Sixteen miles long. Forested with old- growth pine and maple. Criss-crossed by shallow tidal creeks. An important seabird habitat. There are no paved roads but instead many miles of intersecting foot paths and dirt trails and a ferry that runs twice daily from Stone Cove. The year is 1965. We are on the far edge of Black Beacon Sound, famous for the ferocious and well-documented storm which will strike from the east on the fifth of September -- in three day's time. 
EXT. SCOUT CAMP. DAY 
A clearing in the woods with ten small, khaki tents pitched in a row. A banner on a flag-pole ripples in the wind. It reads Camp Ivanhoe. A bugler in a khaki uniform with a yellow neckerchief plays a staccato tattoo. He has a gauze patch over one eye. He is Lazy-Eye. 
A thirty-five-year-old man in the same uniform emerges through the flaps of a larger tent. He is Scout Master Ward. He puts on a wide-brimmed felt hat. A badge on the crown reads Khaki Scouts, Troop 55. He lights a cigarette. A thin scout with curly hair and sunglasses joins him at his side. He is Gadge. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Morning, Gadge. 
GADGE Morning, sir. 
Gadge flips open a small, spiral-bound note-book. Scout Master Ward goes over to a latrine made from thick sticks and rope. A tall, stooped scout digs a trench next to it with an army-shovel. He is Deluca. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Deluca. Latrine inspection. 
Deluca stops digging. He pulls on a rope and water runs down a chute. It bursts through a valve, spins a little door, and a small, red flag flips up. Scout Master Ward nods. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Good. 
Gadge makes a note. Scout Master Ward strides away. He stops in front of a scout with long hair over his eyes sitting on a stump twisting something in his fingers. He is Roosevelt. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Roosevelt. How's that lanyard coming? 
Scout Master Ward starts to take a sip of coffee from a metal cup -- then stops. He looks up from his magazine. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Who's missing? 
Scout Master Ward silently reels off a list of names, scanning the troop. He turns and shouts across the camp: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Shakusky! Breakfast! 
Silence. Scout Master Ward calls to Lazy-Eye: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Lazy-Eye. 
Lazy-Eye plays another tattoo. Silence. 
Scout Master Ward closes his magazine. He flicks his cigarette into a red bucket labelled Fire. He picks up a strip of bacon and chews on it as he rises to his feet and walks down the row of smaller tents. The last one is sealed 
at the front. Scout Master Ward stands with his hands on his hips and says: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Shakusky? You in there? 
Scout Master Ward tugs on the tent's flaps. He frowns. He says to Gadge: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD It's zipped from the inside. 
The other scouts begin to gather with their tin breakfast plates in their hands, watching curiously while they eat. Scout Master Ward's voice softens: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Sam? 
Scout Master Ward looks concerned. He produces a wooden- handled scout pocket-knife. He unfolds a few blades and gadgets and decides quickly on a thin tool with a hook on the end. He crouches down and slips the hook through a small gap at the base of the flap, twists left and right, then pulls up briskly, unzipping the tent. 
INT. SCOUT TENT. DAY 
The lining of the tent is printed with images of trees and pine cones, and a plaid rug covers the floor. There is a foot locker, a gas lamp, a chair with a folded blanket over it, and an empty cot. Scout Master Ward steps inside slowly, bent over, examining the space. He lifts the lid of the foot locker. He looks under the corner of the mattress. He picks up a piece of folded yellow notebook paper sticking out from under a pillow. He opens it and stares at it. He turns suddenly to the chair against the wall of the tent and slides it aside. 
There is neat but slightly jagged hole the size of a basketball cut through the fabric in the back corner. Scout Master Ward looks to his staring troop. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Jiminy Cricket. He flew the coop. 
EXT. POLICE STATION. DAY 
A one-room bungalow with a sign on the door that reads Island Police. There is a wood-panelled station wagon parked alongside it with roller-lights on the roof and a sheriff's office insignia on the door. (This is the only car on the island.) A dock stretches from the cottage into a small 
harbor. There is a launch moored at the end of it which bobs in the rough tide. 
A silver Airstream trailer is parked under a tree nearby. 
A six-foot tall, forty-five-year-old man sits on a stool fishing from the side of the dock. He wears a short-sleeved police uniform with a black necktie and a baseball cap. His glasses have clear, plastic frames and a strap. He is Captain Sharp. 
Two grouchy, leathery, very old men in plaid flannel and hunting caps fish alongside Captain Sharp. A speaker on a post emits an electric buzz. Captain Sharp turns. He stands up briskly and says to one of the old men: 
CAPTAIN SHARP Watch my line, Edgar. 
INT. POLICE STATION. DAY 
A small office with a desk, a file cabinet, and a two-way radio. Captain Sharp comes inside, sits down, grabs a microphone, and presses a red button on the side of it with his thumb. 
CAPTAIN SHARP Hello? This is Captain Sharp. Over. 
Scout Master Ward's voice comes over a crackly speaker: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD (V.O.) Captain Sharp, this is Randall Ward over at Camp Ivanhoe. Over. 
Captain Sharp pours himself a cup of coffee from a pot on a hot-plate as he answers distractedly: 
CAPTAIN SHARP Morning, Randy. What can I do for you? Over. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD (V.O.) I'm not sure, exactly. I've got an escaped Khaki Scout. Over. 
Silence. Captain Sharp frowns slightly. 
CAPTAIN SHARP What does that mean? Over. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD (V.O.) One of my boys seems to have stolen a dug- out and some fishing tackle, ten pounds (MORE) 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Why the hell doesn't it say that in the register? Excuse my language. 
Scout Master Ward holds up a manila file-card. Mr. Billingsley shrugs. 
MR. BILLINGSLEY I don't know. What register? 
INSERT: 
The manila file-card. It is labelled Khaki Scout Register. Sam Shakusky is typed across the top line. There is an address, health information, and a small, faded snap-shot stapled to the corner of it of a twelve-year-old boy standing in a sunny tobacco field. He wears his scout uniform with a Davy Crockett-style coon-skin cap. 
MR. BILLINGSLEY We sent him a letter. It should reach you presently. 
Scout Master Ward looks quickly through his stack of letters. He stops and pulls out an air-mail envelope. He stares at it. Captain Sharp says forcefully but highly agitated: 
CAPTAIN SHARP Mr. Billingsley, I've got an escaped Khaki Scout. We're notifying you as a matter of protocol. You say you can't invite him back? You say he's an orphan? Well, I don't understand how that works. (TOTALLY CONFUSED) What am I supposed to do with him? 
MR. BILLINGSLEY That's up to Social Services. They'll be in touch with you. They'll look after Sam. Good luck to you. 
Mr. Billingsley hangs up the telephone. Becky pulls the cords out of their sockets. Captain Sharp looks to Scout Master Ward. Silence. 
Becky opens a tin of home-made chocolate chip cookies. Captain Sharp declines one. Scout Master Ward tries one. He looks very impressed. 
EXT. SCOUT CAMP. DAY 
Scout Master Ward stands on a bench addressing his assembled troop. The scouts are equipped for hiking with back-packs and walking-sticks. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD You have your orders. Use the orienteering and path-finding skills you've been practicing all summer. Let's find our man and bring him safely back to camp. Remember: this isn't just a search party, it's a chance to do some first- class scouting. Any questions? 
Lazy-Eye raises his hand. Scout Master Ward points to him. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Lazy-Eye. 
LAZY-EYE What's your real job, sir? 
SCOUT MASTER WARD (CAUGHT OFF-GUARD) I'm a math teacher. 
LAZY-EYE What grade? 
SCOUT MASTER WARD (STIFFENING) Eighth. Why? 
Lazy-Eye shrugs. Scout Master Ward frowns. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD You know, we're, actually, kind of, in the middle of something, if you didn't notice. This is a crisis. Anybody else? 
Redford raises his hand. Scout Master Ward points to him. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Redford. 
REDFORD What if he resists? 
SCOUT MASTER WARD (HESITATES) Who? 
REDFORD Shakusky. Are we allowed to use force on him? 
SCOUT MASTER WARD (IRRITATED) No, you're not. This is a non-violent rescue effort. Your instructions are to find him, not to hurt him. Under any circumstances. Do I make myself understood? 
The scouts murmur their understanding. Scout Master Ward nods. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Good. 
Pause. Scout Master Ward wheels back to Lazy-Eye: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD I'm going to change my answer, in fact. This is my real job. Scout Master, Troop 55. That's us. I'm proud of that. 
The scouts look impressed but slightly lost. Scout Master Ward says finally: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Be leery out there. OK, let's get started. Where's Snoopy? 
SKOTAK Right here. 
Skotak holds up a leash attached to a wire-haired terrier. Scout Master Ward takes a sock with a fleur-de-lis on it out of a paper sack. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Give him the scent. 
SAM Did you bring a cat? 
Suzy nods. Sam smiles. Suzy smiles. Sam takes a folded map out of his pocket. He signals for Suzy to come closer. 
SAM Can you read a map? 
SUZY Uh-huh. 
SAM I do cartography. 
Sam points to one of the patches on his sash. It has a protractor embroidered on it. He unfolds the map. 
SAM I feel we should go halfway today and halfway tomorrow, since you're a less experienced hiker, and you're wearing Sunday-school shoes. 
SUZY OK. 
SAM (pointing on the map) Here's where we are right now. I'd like to pitch camp here by sixteen-hundred (which means four o'clock). How does that sound? 
SUZY Fine. 
SAM You want some beef jerky? 
SUZY OK. 
Sam tears a strip of dried meat in two and gives half to Suzy. She tries to chew on it. Sam nods: 
SAM Let's go. 
MONTAGE: 
Sam and Suzy walk together down a hill, across a field, and through a wooded path eating beef jerky. They both smile continuously. 
SAM Are you thirsty? 
SUZY No. 
SAM Well, if your throat gets parched, stick a pebble in your mouth and suck on it. You can quench your thirst with the spit, supposedly. 
Sam shows Suzy some bits of green and yellow sticking out from under his coonskin cap. 
SAM Sometimes I stick leaves under my hat. It cools your head down. 
SUZY That's a good idea. It might help also if you didn't wear fur. 
SAM (HESITATES) True, but this adds camouflage. 
Sam stands in a clearing and pulls a handful of dry grass. He holds it in his fist. 
SAM Here's a trick. Throw grass in the air, and you can see which direction the wind's blowing. 
Sam throws up the grass. It swirls and drifts vaguely. Suzy squints. 
SUZY Which way? 
SAM Unknown. I guess it doesn't really matter, as long as we cover our tracks. 
Sam and Suzy stop to investigate and discuss: a patch of mushrooms, moss on a stump, ferns, poison ivy, and a low bush with purple fruit. Sam looks skeptical. 
SAM These might be poisonous. 
SUZY (STUDYING THEM) No, they're huckleberries, in fact. Try one. 
Suzy brushes off some dirt and eats a berry. Sam puts one into his mouth and nods. 
SAM Not bad. Anyway, they're good for survival. 
Sam and Suzy look through Suzy's binoculars at a deer drinking from a stream. Suzy whispers: 
SUZY He knows someone's watching him. 
SAM I agree. Why do you say that? 
SUZY (SQUINTING) I don't know. I just think he can feel us. 
EXT. LAKE SHORE. DUSK 
Sam twists a stick with a shoelace in kindling and builds a small camp-fire circled with rocks. He cooks two fish with bologna in a frying pan over a camp-fire. He throws in a dash of salt, grinds some pepper, and flips the fish in the air. He holds out a bite on a spatula to Suzy sitting on a log next to him. She tastes it. She looks surprised and nods ENTHUSIASTICALLY: 
SUZY Very good. You know a lot about camping, don't you? 
SAM (STIFFENING) I'm a Khaki Scout. It's what I'm trained for. 
Sam points to one of the patches on his sash. It has fried eggs and bacon on it. 
SAM Anyway, I used to be. 
Sam serves the fish onto two tin plates. He says as they eat with folding forks: 
SAM We can feed your cat the guts and eyeballs. 
Sam points to a pile of bloody organs and bones on a page of newspaper. Suzy frowns. 
SUZY That's OK. He only eats cat food. 
Suzy points to a cardboard box. Sam looks inside. It is filled with ten cans of cat food. Sam raises an eyebrow. 
SAM What else did you bring? We should make an inventory. 
SUZY OK. 
Sam flips open a small, spiral-bound note-book. 
SAM Go ahead. 
Suzy opens the top of her portable record player. She displays it like a salesman. 
SUZY This is my record player. It works with batteries. Actually, it belongs to my little brother Lionel. I left him a note. Do you like music? 
Sam nods and makes a note. Suzy opens her leather folder. There are three L.P. records in it. She takes out one by a French singer. 
SUZY This is my favorite record album. My godmother gave it to me for my birthday. She lives in France. 
Sam nods and makes another note. Suzy opens her suitcase. It is filled to the brim with hard-back copies of fantasy books. It contains no other items of any kind (including clothing). 
SUZY These are my books. I like stories with magic powers in them. Either in kingdoms on earth or on foreign planets. Also, time-travel, if they make it realistic. Usually, I prefer a girl hero, but not always. I couldn't bring all of them because it got too heavy. You can borrow any you want. 
Sam nods and makes another note. Suzy produces a few more ITEMS: 
SUZY I also brought my lefty scissors because I'm left-handed, my toothbrush, some rubber bands, extra batteries, and my binoculars, as you know. I forgot my comb. 
Sam surveys the entire collection of articles. He scratches his head. 
SAM That's it? No mess-kit? No flashlight? No canteen? No waterproof matches? Didn't you get the packing list I sent you in my last letter? 
SUZY (FROWNS) I thought that's what you're supposed to bring. I don't own a canteen. 
Pause. Sam shrugs. He smiles. 
SAM That's OK. We can share. 
Sam picks up one of the books. It is called The Girl from Jupiter. There is an illustration on the cover of a young, alien princess with glittering tears on her cheeks. Sam examines the other books in the suitcase. He looks slightly puzzled. 
SAM These are all library books. In my school you're only allowed to check-out one at a time. Some of these are going to be overdue. 
Sam hesitates. He suddenly realizes something. He asks BLUNTLY: 
SAM Do you steal? 
Silence. Suzy nods reluctantly. Sam looks confused. 
SAM Why? You're not poor. 
Suzy stares at the books. She absently brushes some dust off them. She rearranges them slightly. She says finally: 
SUZY I might turn some of them back in one day. I haven't decided yet. I know it's bad. I think I just took them to have a secret to keep. Anyway, for some reason, it makes me feel in a better mood sometimes. 
Sam thinks about this. He leans his chin against his fist. He SAYS SERIOUSLY: 
INSERT: 
A short note on pink stationary in a girl's red felt-tip cursive. It reads: 
Dear Lionel, I need to use your record player. I will give it back in ten days or less. Do not tell Mom. (Or Dad.) I will replace the batteries when I return. Signed, Suzy Bishop 
Mrs. Bishop frowns. She bolts back out of the room. Her voice BOOMS AGAIN: 
MRS. BISHOP (O.S.) Walt! Where the hell are you? 
There is a loud thump upstairs. Mr. Bishop shouts from OUTSIDE: 
MR. BISHOP (O.S.) Right here! Why are you cursing at me? 
CUT TO: 
Exterior. Mr. Bishop leans out of an upstairs window. Mrs. Bishop appears in one below. She yells up through the MEGAPHONE: 
MRS. BISHOP Does it concern you that your daughter's just run away from home? 
MR. BISHOP (PAUSE) That's a loaded question. 
Mrs. Bishop brandishes the note with her free hand. 
MRS. BISHOP Come down and read this. 
A radio squawks in the woods behind the house. Mr. and Mrs. Bishop turn quickly toward the sound. Mrs. Bishop looks tense. Becky's garbled voice says over a tinny speaker: 
BECKY (V.O.) Scout Master Ward confirms they've had no luck. They're going home for the -- 
There is a rustling and the sound of a car door opening -- then the radio cuts off. Mr. Bishop frowns. He shouts: 
MR. BISHOP Who's there? 
Captain Sharp emerges slowly from the dark, tangled in a bramble, hopping slowly on one foot as he unwinds a root from around his ankle. He smiles awkwardly and says: 
CAPTAIN SHARP Good evening. Sorry to startle you. I was JUST -- 
MR. BISHOP (ANGRILY) What are you doing here? Nobody called the police. 
CAPTAIN SHARP I know, that's what I'm saying. The search party's not over yet. In other WORDS -- 
MRS. BISHOP Suzy's missing, too! Go find her. 
CAPTAIN SHARP (HESITATES) OK. Where'd she -- 
MR. BISHOP Wait for me. 
Mr. Bishop disappears into the house. Captain Sharp and Mrs. Bishop exchange an uncertain look. 
INT. STATION WAGON. NIGHT 
Captain Sharp pans a spot-light back and forth in the darkness while he steers the car. The lamp has a short in it 
and flickers with each bump. Mr. Bishop rides in the passenger seat. He stares ahead down the road and says to HIMSELF: 
MR. BISHOP How can we help her? She's got so many problems. It's getting worse. 
Mr. Bishop looks strangely to Captain Sharp. He asks: 
MR. BISHOP Whose fault is it? 
CAPTAIN SHARP (HESITATES) I don't know, but just for the record: ninety-five percent of all runaways return home within six hours. That doesn't do you any good right now. It's just a statistic -- but in all likelihood Suzy's probably hiding in the closet at her best friend's house playing Chinese Checkers at this very moment, as we speak. 
MR. BISHOP She doesn't have any friends. 
CAPTAIN SHARP (LONG PAUSE) How's Laura? 
MR. BISHOP (IRRITATED) How's Laura? 
CAPTAIN SHARP Mrs. Bishop, I mean. 
MR. BISHOP I don't understand. 
SAM (V.O.) Dear Suzy, I know your parents hurt your feelings, but they still love you. That is more important. If they -- 
Suzy stands in a doorway screaming at her family while they watch wearily from the dinner table with forks and knives in their hands. 
SUZY (V.O.) Dear Sam, I do think you should think of their faces every day, even if it makes you sad. It is too bad they did not leave you more pictures of themselves. Can you -- 
Sam writes in his bunk crouched beneath a blanket with a Khaki Scout flashlight pointed at his paper. 
SAM (V.O.) Dear Suzy, Here is my plan. 
Suzy writes in her bed crouched beneath a quilt with a plastic lantern glowing beside her. 
SUZY (V.O.) Dear Sam, My answer is yes. 
INSERT: 
A sheet of wide-ruled yellow paper which reads in a boy's PENCILED SCRAWL: 
SAM (V.O.) Dear Suzy, When? 
INSERT: 
A sheet of pink stationary which reads in a girl's red felt- TIP CURSIVE: 
SUZY (V.O.) Dear Sam, Where? 
CUT TO: 
Suzy kneeling in the dark, crouched in front of an upper window with the shoebox of letters beside her. Outside, the woods are black beyond a moonlit field. 
SAM (V.O.) Dear Suzy, Walk four hundred yards due north from your house to the dirt path which has not got any name on it. Turn right and follow to the end. 
Suzy raises her binoculars to her eyes. 
SAM (V.O.) I will meet you in the meadow. 
EXT. WIDE MEADOW. DAY 
The next morning. The end of the path cut through the high grass where Sam and Suzy met the day before. Captain Sharp, Scout Master Ward, Mrs. Bishop, and Becky stand in two groups talking. Gadge and Skotak stretch a string with ribbons tied to it from stake to stake marking a perimeter. Lazy-Eye walks with the wire-haired terrier pulling at its leash. Other scouts search the field and scan the horizon. 
Captain Sharp's station wagon and Redford's motorcycle are parked in the dirt. 
Mr. Bishop stands off to the side by himself poking at the ground with a stick. He has two black eyes, and half his face is swollen and purple. Scout Master Ward asks Becky quietly: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD What happened to him? 
BECKY I'm not sure. I think he went searching in the dark. 
Mr. Bishop says loudly without looking up from the ground: 
MR. BISHOP She stole the batteries out of my flashlight. 
Scout Master Ward looks at Becky and grimaces. Becky raises an eyebrow. Mrs. Bishop stands next to Captain Sharp. They move slightly away from the others. Captain Sharp whispers quickly, almost inaudibly: 
CAPTAIN SHARP I think he's onto us. 
MRS. BISHOP (INSTANTLY) Of course, he is. 
Captain Sharp looks surprised and defensive. He whispers BACK: 
CAPTAIN SHARP Of course, he is? 
MRS. BISHOP Of course, he is. 
CAPTAIN SHARP (CONFUSED) Why aren't we worried about that, then? 
MRS. BISHOP I am. 
CAPTAIN SHARP (ASTONISHED) Well, I didn't know. Or, anyway, I thought I was wrong. Did you hit him? 
MRS. BISHOP No. He fell in a ditch. 
Nickleby pops up from below the tall grass and thrusts an empty can of cat food into the air. He shouts excitedly: 
SUZY (COLDLY) Maybe you just don't know him. 
REDFORD We know him a lot better than you. He's emotionally disturbed because his family died. Nickleby, tie him up. 
Nickleby takes a step forward with his bow and arrow pointed and ready. Suzy looks furious. Sam flips his air-rifle off his shoulder with a twirl. He points it at Redford and Nickleby. Nickleby hesitates. Sam says darkly: 
SAM Do not cross this stick. 
Sam motions to a twig on the ground in front of him. Silence. 
REDFORD You're doomed, Shakusky. 
Redford revs the motor, pops the clutch, and races across the clearing toward Sam and Suzy. The rest of the troop converges, yelling crazily. 
CUT TO: 
The wide canyon echoing with shouts, screams, and a small explosion. One by one, Deluca, Nickleby, Panagle, Izod, and Lazy-Eye come running out of the trees and down the hill. Finally, Redford hobbles after them, limping and groaning and clutching his side. 
CUT TO: 
Redford's charred, partially demolished motorcycle smoldering in the branches of a tree. 
Suzy stands on the edge of the ravine staring at the pair of bloody scissors in her hand. She looks shaken. Sam takes the scissors, cleans them with his fingers, and hands them back to Suzy. He says gently: 
SAM It was him or us. 
Suzy nods. She turns slowly away. Her eyes widen. 
SUZY Oh, no. 
Suzy points. The wire-haired terrier lies on his back on the ground with an arrow sticking out between his shoulder blades. The kitten licks at the wound. Sam and Suzy run over to the wounded dog. Sam crouches down, gently presses the kitten away, and says bleakly: 
SAM They got Snoopy through the neck. 
Suzy has tears in her eyes. She slides her hands under the wire-haired terrier's body. She begins to hyperventilate as SHE SAYS: 
SUZY He needs a doctor. 
Sam puts his finger to the wire-haired terrier's neck. He SAYS SADLY: 
SAM No, he doesn't. He needs a morgue. 
SUZY (trying to catch her breath) He's losing blood. Hurry. Where do we go? 
Suzy lifts the bleeding dog into her arms. Sam grabs her by the shoulders. He locks eyes with her and says with grit and MELODRAMA: 
SAM Suzy. Look at me. Snoopy's not going to make it. 
SUZY (starting to cry) Don't say that. 
SAM They're after us. We got to move. 
SUZY (raising her voice) He's dying! We can't just leave him! 
SAM (SHOUTING) It's too late! He's already gone! 
SUZY (SCREAMING) Stop yelling at me! 
Sam slaps Suzy in the face. She falls silent. He says slowly: 
SAM I'm sorry I had to do that, but you're panicking. The first rule in any emergency is you never -- 
Suzy drops the wire-haired terrier which hits the ground with a thud. She slaps Sam back with a huge, roundhouse smack. Sam falls over sideways. Suzy stands over him. 
SUZY Don't ever do that again. No one's allowed to slap me. 
Sam stands up and dusts himself off. He and Suzy stare down at the lifeless animal. Suzy says quietly: 
SUZY You're right. He's dead. 
Sam reaches into a side-picket of his back-pack and takes out an army-shovel. He assembles it. Suzy says hopefully: 
SUZY Was he a good dog? 
Scout Master Ward recoils. He says quietly, troubled: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD I'm trying. 
Mr. Bishop takes off his shoe and throws it at Scout Master Ward. Scout Master Ward ducks, and the shoe bounces off his back. Captain Sharp blocks Mr. Bishop. 
CAPTAIN SHARP Stop. 
Mr. Bishop scuffles with Captain Sharp. Mrs. Bishop jerks him backwards and shouts: 
MRS. BISHOP Stop it, Walt! 
Mr. Bishop faces Mrs. Bishop and Captain Sharp, breathing heavily. Scout Master Ward looks depressed. Jed, Gadge, Skotak, and Redford watch frozen from a gangplank alongside the seaplane. 
CAPTAIN SHARP I do blame him -- (pointing to Scout Master Ward) -- but I also blame myself and both of you. With all due respect: you can't let your children stab people. 
MRS. BISHOP (HESITATES) What are you talking about? 
SCOUT MASTER WARD She's violent, Mrs. Bishop. Look. 
Scout Master Ward shows Mrs. Bishop the blood all over his hands and uniform. Mrs. Bishop looks confused. 
MRS. BISHOP I don't get it. Were there witnesses? 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Of course. It's assault. 
MRS. BISHOP I beg your pardon. Are you a lawyer? 
SCOUT MASTER WARD No, ma'am, but -- 
MRS. BISHOP (FURIOUS) Well, I am! 
Captain Sharp gently draws Mrs. Bishop away by the shoulder. He links arms with her as he tries to placate the group: 
CAPTAIN SHARP Easy does it. Calm down, Laura. 
MR. BISHOP Stay away from my wife. 
Mr. Bishop pushes Captain Sharp away from Mrs. Bishop into Scout Master Ward. Scout Master Ward lunges at Mr. Bishop but is intercepted by Captain Sharp and Mrs. Bishop. They shout REPEATEDLY: 
CAPTAIN SHARP/MR. BISHOP SCOUT MASTER WARD/MRS. BISHOP Dammit! Christ! Shit! Jesus! 
At this moment, a voice interjects from the shore: 
NARRATOR (O.S.) Excuse me! Excuse me! Excuse me, Captain Sharp? 
Captain Sharp, Scout Master Ward, and Mr. and Mrs. Bishop stop fighting and turn around at once. They see: the narrator. He stands at the foot of the dock holding a journal with rubber bands wrapped around it. They all stare at him blankly. He continues: 
NARRATOR As some of you know, I taught Sam for the cartography Accomplishment Patch. He's a smart boy, and he expressed a keen interest in the history of the island's indigenous peoples. In particular, I recall his fascination with the idea of retracing the original path of the old Chickchaw harvest migration. 
Long pause. Everyone looks utterly perplexed. The propeller of the seaplane starts up, and they all shield their eyes from the blast of wind and dust. The narrator hesitates. He yells over the noise: 
NARRATOR What I'm getting at is this: I think I know where they're going. 
The narrator removes the rubber bands from his journal. 
INSERT: 
A carefully hand-drafted nautical chart. A cove is marked with a red arrow and the caption Mile 3.25 Tidal Inlet. 
INSERT: 
The portable record player. Suzy's fingers place the needle onto a spinning disc. 
EXT. TIDAL LAGOON. DAY 
A small cove enclosed by a low, rocky cliff. It forms an almost complete circle and is overgrown with vines, flowers, and branches. A thin channel leads out to the ocean. The sand on the shore is white, and the water is perfectly clear and crowded with shells at the bottom. Birds echo and fly from tree to tree. 
Sam's and Suzy's luggage is piled on the beach. The kitten wanders, exploring. The lid of the portable record player is open. The voice of Leonard Bernstein says over the speaker: 
RECORD PLAYER (V.O.) Onto the bird-house, where every kind of bird imaginable is whirling and wheeling around. This is a real acrobatic act for our gifted young flute player, Paula Robeson. 
As they listen, Sam and Suzy take off their shoes and socks and run in opposite directions around the edge of the cove. They each climb up a rock over the water. They look at each other across the lagoon. They both laugh. Suzy shouts, SMILING: 
SAM Why do you always use binoculars? 
Suzy thinks for minute. She says finally: 
SUZY It helps me see things closer. Even if they're not very far away. I pretend it's my magic power. 
SAM (IMPRESSED) That sounds like poetry. Poems don't always have to rhyme, you know. They're just supposed to be creative. 
Suzy gives Sam the binoculars. He points them at her and stares. 
SAM What do you want to be? When you grow up. 
SUZY I don't know. I want to go on adventures, I think. Not get stuck in one place. How about you? 
SAM (PAUSE) Go on adventures, too. Not get stuck, too. I guess that sounds almost like I'm just repeating what you just said, but I couldn't think of anything as good as it. On the other hand, maybe we'll get blown up by an atom bomb. You can't predict the exact future. 
SUZY That's true. 
SAM It's possible I may wet the bed, by the way. Later, I mean. 
SUZY (SURPRISED) OK. 
SAM (RELUCTANTLY) I wish I didn't have to mention it, but just in case. I don't want to make you be offended. 
SUZY (SOFTLY) Of course, I won't. 
SAM Some people frown on these problems. 
Suzy nods. She holds Sam's hand. She points to the scorpion brooch pinned to Sam's shirt. 
SUZY What's that one for? 
Sam looks at the brooch. He shakes his head. 
SAM It's not an accomplishment. I inherited it from my mother. It's actually not meant for a male to wear -- but I don't give a damn. 
Suzy nods thoughtfully. Pause. 
SUZY Are your foster parents still mad at you? For getting in trouble so much. 
SAM I don't think so. We're getting to know each other better. I feel like I'm in a family now. Not like yours, but similar to one. 
SUZY I always wished I was an orphan. Most of my favorite characters are. I think your lives are more special. 
Sam frowns. Tears suddenly well-up in his eyes. He shakes his head. 
SAM I love you, but you don't know what you're talking about. 
Long pause. Suzy says genuinely: 
SUZY I love you, too. 
CUT TO: 
A campfire burns in front of the tent. Sam lies on his back on one of the bedrolls smoking his pipe while Suzy sits Indian-style next to him. She reads aloud from a book called The Light of Seven Matchsticks. There is an illustration on the cover of a child's hand extinguishing a little flame. A ribbon of smoke curls between its fingers. 
SUZY The flashlight's beam drew a moon through the black across the attic and settled on a gap in the base-board. A mouse-hole, no bigger than a pocket-watch. Eric crouched on his flat feet and placed his hand in front of the tiny opening. "It's windy," he said. "Like someone in there's blowing on my fingers." Christy rolled her eyes and sighed a sigh. He's right again, she thought. Little brothers drive people crazy. 
Suzy looks to Sam to see if he is still awake. Sam nods and signals for Suzy to continue. Suzy turns the page and reads ON: 
SUZY Part Two. 
OMIT 
CUT TO: 
The next morning. Sam and Suzy are asleep with their arms wrapped around each other inside the tent. They wear only their underwear. The sound of an airplane approaches. Sam's eyes open. The noise buzzes by loudly overhead. Suzy sits up. Sam scrambles to his feet, unzips the flaps of the tent, and looks out. Suzy crouches beside him, holding onto his leg. THEY SEE: 
Captain Sharp standing on the beach fifteen feet away. Scout Master Ward waits behind him with Gadge, Skotak, and Lazy- Eye. Mr. and Mrs. Bishop stride up out of the water. Mr. Bishop looks incensed. They are wet to the waist. The police launch is moored in the lagoon. Two larger boats with St. Jack Wood Fire Brigade printed on their hulls float further away. Men in red caps stand on their decks. 
Suzy pulls Sam back inside. She zips up the tent again. She kisses Sam. Mr. Bishop hollers: 
MR. BISHOP Suzy! Get out here! 
SUZY I wish I knew what makes you tick. 
MR. BISHOP (HESITATES) I beg your pardon? 
MRS. BISHOP Please, terminate this conversation. 
MR. BISHOP (TO LIONEL) She's saying that to me? 
Lionel shakes his head bitterly. Suzy stares out to sea. Scout Master Ward walks over to the cabin, opens the door, and goes inside. 
INT. POLICE LAUNCH. DAY 
A small room with two bunks, two portholes, and a pile of ropes. Sam sits hunched over with his hands in his lap. He stares at the envelope. Scout Master Ward sits down across from him. He motions to the envelope and says quietly, pausing between each sentence: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD I'm sorry about this. I didn't know your situation. It's not on the register. How'd you lose your parents? I shouldn't ask that. Never mind. I wish we had time for an inspection back there. On the beach. I would've given you a "commendable". That was one of the best- pitched camp-sites I've ever seen. Honestly. 
Sam does not respond. Scout Master Ward asks in a wounded VOICE: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD You don't want to be a Khaki Scout anymore? 
Sam shakes his head. 
INT. POST OFFICE. DAY 
Becky sits at the switchboard with her head-phones on. Captain Sharp and Scout Master Ward sit behind her wearing their own sets of head-phones. There is a click on the other end of the line. 
OPERATOR (V.O.) Hello, Becky. 
BECKY Judy, I have your person-to-person from New Penzance. 
OPERATOR (V.O.) Go ahead, New Penzance. 
CUT TO: 
Split-screen. On one side of the frame, we see Captain Sharp, Scout Master Ward, and Becky. On the other side, we see a fifty-year-old woman in a blue and white uniform pants-suit with a Salvation Army officer-style hat and a red ribbon tied in a bow around her neck. She is Social Services. She sits at a desk in a cinder block office. Guards and orderlies criss- cross in a bullet-proof window to a long, grey corridor behind her. 
CAPTAIN SHARP Hello? This is Captain Sharp. 
Social Services flips open a file-folder and picks up a ball- point pen. (She takes notes throughout the conversation.) She says into her telephone: 
SOCIAL SERVICES Hello, Captain Sharp. This is Social Services. I'm calling in reference to Sam Shakusky, Ward of the State. I understand he's in your custody. 
CAPTAIN SHARP That's correct. 
SOCIAL SERVICES What's his condition? Has he suffered any injury or trauma of any kind? 
CAPTAIN SHARP He's OK. 
SOCIAL SERVICES Very good. How do I get to you? 
CAPTAIN SHARP The fastest way is by seaplane. Jed can bring you in with the mail. 
SOCIAL SERVICES I'll come tomorrow morning, if that's acceptable to you. Is someone able to (MORE) 
SOCIAL SERVICES (cont'd) provide reasonable care and nourishment for the boy until that time? 
CAPTAIN SHARP Uh-huh. 
SOCIAL SERVICES Is that a yes? 
CAPTAIN SHARP Uh-huh. 
SOCIAL SERVICES Very good. I'll contact you again before the end of the day. 
Social Services starts to hang up the telephone. Captain Sharp says abruptly: 
CAPTAIN SHARP Wait a second. 
SOCIAL SERVICES (HESITATES) Yes? 
CAPTAIN SHARP Social Services? 
SOCIAL SERVICES (EVENLY) Captain Sharp. 
CAPTAIN SHARP (SINCERELY) Well, I hope you can. I think you will. You're doing the right thing. 
Pause. Captain Sharp suddenly slides his hand inside Mrs. Bishop's shirt onto her breast and simultaneously kisses her -- then just as suddenly gets into his car and starts the engine. Mrs. Bishop hesitates. She reaches inside the window and puts her hand on the top of Captain Sharp's head. She says, worried: 
MRS. BISHOP Who know what's going to happen, Duffy? I'll probably see you tomorrow. 
CAPTAIN SHARP (CALMLY) No, you won't. 
Silence. The motor idles. Captain Sharp says distantly: 
CAPTAIN SHARP I admire them, you know? There's a purity to it. I only feel bad because they both seem like such unhappy, lonely, miserable people -- but maybe that's romantic. 
MRS. BISHOP (PUZZLED) I don't see it that way. 
Captain Sharp puts the car into gear and drives off. Mrs. Bishop finishes her cigarette. She gets on her bicycle and rides away. 
INT. AIRSTREAM TRAILER. NIGHT 
A burning match drops down into the fireplace near the foot of a bunk where Sam lies sleeping. He has the sheet pulled up to his chin, but his toes stick out. He opens one eye. Dust descends and settles. Something scrapes and scratches. The flame burns out. 
Sam slides slowly off the mattress and creeps across the floor. He crouches in front of the fireplace. He flicks on a scout flashlight and sees: 
The end of a hanging rope. 
Sam leans quickly into the fireplace and looks straight up, shining his flashlight. Skotak is looking down at him from the top of the chimney. He puts his finger to his lips. Sam WHISPERS SHARPLY: 
SAM Get out of my chimney. 
SKOTAK Listen to me. We're here for friendship. We're going to get you off this island. 
SAM (LONG PAUSE) No, thanks. 
SKOTAK Yes, thanks. This is an emergency rescue. 
SAM It's worthless to me. There's no point. Not without Suzy. 
Skotak gestures for Sam to wait. He disappears from view. A moment later, Suzy's face appears at the top of the chimney, smiling toothily. Sam looks ecstatic. 
SAM How'd you get here? 
SUZY They snuck me down the laundry chute and left a paper-maché dummy in my bed. 
SAM (IMPRESSED) Diversion tactics. Good thinking. 
CUT TO: 
The next room. Captain Sharp sleeps in boxer shorts on the floor of the kitchenette in the dark. He snores quietly. 
EXT. ROUGH CHANNEL. NIGHT 
Five mini-canoes race across a wide, choppy strait close to the open sea. Skotak, Deluca, Nickleby, Gadge, Lazy-Eye, Panagle, Roosevelt, Chef, and Izod paddle aggressively. We hear in voice-over: 
SAM (V.O.) Where we going? 
SKOTAK (V.O.) Fort Lebanon. My cousin Ben runs the Supply and Resources outpost for the Jubilee. He's a Falcon Scout, Legionnaire. Cousin Ben'll know what to do. 
SAM (V.O.) Can we trust him? 
SKOTAK (V.O.) Normally, I'd say no. 
Sam and Suzy ride in the back of the canoe that Skotak rows. Sam has his arms around Suzy's waist. The kitten is on her shoulder. Sam sees the portable record player among Suzy's things. 
SAM Did you leave another note for Lionel? 
SUZY Not this time. He can't keep his trap shut. Besides, I'll probably never see him again. 
SAM That's true. 
CUT TO: 
A pebble beach below high dunes. Large waves sweep into the shore. Spray blows through the air. There is a black lighthouse on a rocky point in the distance. The narrator stands at the water's edge holding a meteorologist's measuring stick. He braces himself against the gusting winds. He speaks to the camera: 
NARRATOR This is the island of St. Jack Wood, extending far north from Land's End along the deep-water channel that leads to Broken Rock. A low flood-plain separates the beach from the town-ship above. A small but prosperous community. 
INSERT: 
The first page. There is another drawing of the Scout Master- in-Chief. This time he is behind the wheel of a ship. His signature below, once again, reads Commander Pierce. There is a quotation in large text: "Anyone can hold the helm when the sea is calm." 
Pause. Scout Master Ward lowers his magazine. He looks around, confused. Something dawns on him. 
INT. COMMAND TENT. DAY 
A small entourage of teenage scouts studies maps, charts, and documents at folding tables. One of them sits at a telegraph machine. He wears headphones and taps Morse code on a paddle as he listens to a transmission. He looks puzzled. He swivels his chair to a steno-machine and begins typing rapidly. 
EXT. COMMAND TENT. DAY 
A triple-sized tent with a canopy in front and a large totem pole looming over it. It stands on five-foot stilts. There is a school bus parked next to it with letters painted across its side which read Regional Jubilee. 
A forty-five-year-old scout master with several medals on his chest is sharpening a straight razor. He is Secretary McIntire. He adjusts a hot towel on the face of a man in a barber's chair. 
The young telegraph operator hurries out of the tent carrying a strip of paper. He hands it to Secretary McIntire. Secretary McIntire stares at it. He says to the man under the TOWEL: 
SECRETARY MCINTIRE You're not going to believe this one, sir. That Scout Master on New Penzance? Has now lost his entire troop. 
The seated man whips the towel off his face and rises to his feet. He is Commander Pierce himself. He has silver hair, a moustache, and a much greater number of medals. He says in disbelief as he snatches the slip of paper: 
COMMANDER PIERCE Well, I'll be damned. Who is this bimbo? 
SECRETARY MCINTIRE (VAGUELY) I couldn't say. 
Commander Pierce shakes his head. He continues to study the document as he sits back down. Secretary McIntire begins to lather his cheeks with a brush. 
CUT TO: 
A vast archway of wood, straw, and rope construction. Fort Lebanon is spelled out across the top with bound sticks. A large flag waving madly on a pole reads Khaki Scouts of North America. A bugler on a platform plays the familiar staccato tattoo. It echoes for miles. 
Sam and Suzy wait inside the gates crouched behind a row of trash cans with the rest of the troop except Skotak. They shiver. Sam has on his back-pack. Suzy carries her suitcase. Gadge holds a tennis ball can. 
A scout master in an Indian chief's headdress stops as he walks by. He looks curiously at Sam and especially Suzy. He says to Nickleby: 
GUARD SCOUT Who's your unit leader? 
Pause. Nickleby points to a fat man in an apron cooking hamburgers on a grill. 
NICKLEBY That guy. 
The scout master shrugs. Skotak comes over and says FURTIVELY: 
SKOTAK There's a broken gum-ball machine behind the snack tent. 
Skotak distributes a handful of gum-balls among Sam, Suzy, and the rest of the troop. They all put them in their mouths. Skotak motions for everyone to follow him. 
A footbridge across a stream leads to a Quonset hut with an awning in front labelled Supply Tent. A crowd of very young scouts waits at a wide counter bartering over boxes of food, drink, and equipment. A team of helpers collects money and packages goods. At the center, there is a twenty-year-old 
scout with a pencil behind his ear. He is Cousin Ben. He says to a nine-year-old Junior Khaki: 
COUSIN BEN I don't care how they do it where you come from. You want pop? You want candy? You want a snake-bite kit? Get some money. 
Skotak appears and whispers something to Cousin Ben. Cousin Ben nods. He says to his customers: 
COUSIN BEN Come back in five minutes. 
Cousin Ben pulls a curtain shut behind the counter. 
EXT. WOODEN PROMENADE. DAY 
Sam, Suzy, Skotak and the rest of the troop follow Cousin Ben briskly out a door and onto a cat-walk that runs along the top of a wall made from tall, pointed logs. As they talk, they walk past dozens of rows and clusters of tents grouped by color in the fields below. They walk past towers, huts, ladders, latrines, and a catapult under construction. They walk past a white infirmary with a red cross on it and a doctor taking a boy's blood pressure. They walk past a fleet of small, antique sailboats flying assorted troop banners. Five hundred scouts and fifty scout masters work, eat, talk, cook, and play sports and games all around the compound in spite of the fierce winds. One group rides motorcycles, another fires model rockets, another flies by overhead on a cable-trolley. 
Cousin Ben points to Sam and asks Skotak over the sound of THE WIND: 
COUSIN BEN Is this him? 
SAM Field Mate Sam Shakusky, Troop 55, resigned. 
COUSIN BEN He's hot. Almost too hot. What's in the can? 
SKOTAK Seventy-six dollars -- but it's mostly in nickels. 
Cousin Ben counting nickels in the tennis ball can. He jerks his thumb toward Sam and Suzy and says dismissively: 
COUSIN BEN I guess they're probably just trying to pretend they're struggling over their decision, but at least -- 
SKOTAK Woah! 
Cousin Ben looks. Suzy has her hands around Sam's throat and is throttling him. Sam squirms loose and calms her down. The troop watches transfixed. Sam takes a snapshot out of his pocket and shows it to Suzy, explaining. Suzy nods. They come back over to the group. There are tears on Suzy's cheeks. She says to Cousin Ben: 
SUZY We're sure. 
COUSIN BEN OK. Let's do a blood test. 
INT. CHAPEL TENT. DAY 
Cousin Ben stands at a collapsible altar. He wears a purple, silk stole around his neck with crosses stitched into it. Sam 
and Suzy hold a Bible with their hands on it. Skotak and the rest of troop listen solemnly as Cousin Ben reads from a MANUAL: 
COUSIN BEN -- which we hereby consecrate on this day, the fifth of September, 1965. (LOOKING UP) That's the end of the short-form. Do any of the witnesses have objections or remarks? Usually, they don't. 
Skotak raises his hand. Cousin Ben reluctantly calls on him: 
COUSIN BEN Skotak. 
SKOTAK Can we loan them the nickels? I'm worried about their future. 
COUSIN BEN (OFFENDED) That's my fee. 
Skotak and the rest of the troop look very concerned. They murmur to each other: 
NICKLEBY What's going to happen to them? 
GADGE Nobody knows. 
DELUCA Let's take a vote. 
SKOTAK All in favor -- 
COUSIN BEN (LOUDLY) That's my fee. 
Skotak and the rest of the troop look to Cousin Ben. Cousin Ben glares at them. He sighs. He points to Skotak. 
COUSIN BEN You're just like your brothers. OK, give them the tennis ball can. 
Cousin Ben points to the tennis ball can on the floor next to his feet. Skotak takes it and zips it into a side-pocket of 
Sam's back-pack. Cousin Ben hands Sam and Suzy a receipt on a clipboard. 
COUSIN BEN Sign here -- and initial here and here. 
Sam and Suzy sign and initial. Cousin Ben tears out a copy. 
COUSIN BEN Take the carbon. Leave the Bible. Let's go. 
Sam and Suzy turn and walk out of the chapel tent holding hands. They do not smile. Cousin Ben, Skotak, and the rest of the troop follow them with grave expressions on their faces. Sam touches Suzy's hair. Suzy kisses Sam's hand. They walk as a group through the camp. 
OMIT 
EXT. CAMP MARINA. DAY 
Sam, Suzy, Skotak, and the rest of the troop wait at the end of a narrow dock. Cousin Ben stands below them in a small sailboat. He reaches up to Suzy and lifts her onboard. He reaches up to Sam and lifts him onboard, too. He rigs the sail. 
Sam smiles sadly. He and Skotak do the secret handshake. The others quickly join in. Suzy blows them a kiss. Everyone looks choked up. 
Cousin Ben unloops a line. The sails quickly catch the strong wind, and the boat sails away into the harbor. Skotak and the rest of troop wave and salute. They watch, bittersweet. Pause. 
NICKLEBY Where they going again? 
GADGE He's going to work on a shrimper, if I understand correctly. 
SKOTAK (WISTFULLY) I wish them well. 
LAZY-EYE Me, too. Me, too. 
CUT TO: 
A binocular shot of a ladder leaning against a high fence. SAM SHOUTS: 
SAM Follow me! 
Sam leads Suzy, Skotak, and the rest of the troop fly at a sprint to the fence, climb the ladder, and pull it up after them. A bugle plays a cavalry charge. The mob bolts after them. 
CUT TO: 
Split-screen. On one side of the frame, we see Captain Sharp, Scout Master Ward, and Becky wearing their operator head- phones. On the other side, we see Commander Pierce, Secretary McIntire, and the commander's entourage inside the command tent. Commander Pierce says into his field-telephone: 
COMMANDER PIERCE Captain Sharp, we've located the missing troop. They just fled camp. We're in (MORE) 
COMMANDER PIERCE (cont'd) pursuit. They're accompanied by a twelve- year-old girl in knee-socks and Sunday- school shoes. 
CAPTAIN SHARP Stand by, Commander Pierce. 
Captain Sharp spins around in his chair and flips a switch on a two-way radio. He says into a microphone: 
CAPTAIN SHARP Jed, re-route to St. Jack Wood. Tell Social Services the boy's been spotted at Fort Lebanon. 
JED (V.O.) Roger that. Will comply. 
Captain Sharp sets down the microphone. He turns to Becky. 
CAPTAIN SHARP Becky, notify the Bishops: Suzy's there. 
Becky nods. Captain Sharp turns to Scout Master Ward. 
CAPTAIN SHARP Randy? You monitoring? 
Scout Master Ward is already on his feet. He peels off his head-phones. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Affirmative. I'm on my way. 
Becky plugs a cord into a socket and says: 
BECKY Hello! Mr. Bishop? 
Captain Sharp looks out the window with a sense of dread. 
INT. BISHOP HOUSE. DAY 
Mr. Bishop listens on the telephone with a strained look on his face. Mrs. Bishop watches him intently. 
MR. BISHOP Oh, dear God. 
Mr. Bishop grabs Mrs. Bishop by the wrist. He says grimly: 
MR. BISHOP Get the boys. 
Mrs. Bishop raises her megaphone to her mouth. She shouts: 
MRS. BISHOP Let's go! Right now! 
INT. SEAPLANE. DAY 
A deHavilland Beaver in heavy rain and turbulence. Jed speaks into his radio while piloting the aircraft. Social Services sits beside him in the passenger's seat. She looks queasy but determined. 
JED Tower control, this is Jed. Confirm co- ordinates for new destination: alpha-two- two-seven-one-fiver. Looking pretty soupy up here. Wouldn't mind setting down before the pot boils over. (to Social Services) Hang on, Social Services. 
Jed presses the yoke forward, and the plane dips hard. Social Services braces against the dash. 
EXT. MOTORBOAT. DAY 
Scout Master Ward steers his outboard through the open channel. The boat crests high over deep swells, flooding over in waves. Scout Master Ward is drenched. He does not flinch or even appear to notice. 
EXT. FOREST PATH. DAY 
Sam, Suzy, Skotak, and the rest of the troop scramble through the woods as fast as they can. There are flashes of lightning and pounding thunder. Suzy trips on a root, and Sam pulls her to her feet. Sam trips on a rock, and Suzy pulls him to his feet. 
INT. COMMAND TENT. DAY 
A name-tag that reads Scout Master Ward next to a patch with a picture of a snow-capped mountain. It says K.S.N.A. Leadership underneath. 
Commander Pierce says bitterly: 
COMMANDER PIERCE I'm field-stripping you of your command. 
Commander Pierce rips the patch off Scout Master Ward's uniform and throws it aside. He holds out his hand, palm up. Scout Master Ward looks stricken. He reaches into his pocket, takes out his scout pocket-knife, and hands it Commander Pierce. Commander Pierce puts it into his own pocket. He SHOUTS: 
COMMANDER PIERCE Attention, company! Prepare for emergency evacuation! 
Secretary McIntire leans close to Commander Pierce. He WHISPERS DISCREETLY: 
SECRETARY MCINTIRE Sir, do you have your medicine? 
Commander Pierce hesitates. He holds up a finger. 
COMMANDER PIERCE I'll be right back. 
Commander Pierce strides back into the command tent. Secretary McIntire looks to Scout Master Ward, uneasy. Scout Master Ward stares down at the ground. 
The flash-flood explodes out from the woods. 
Gushing water pours down the hillside, cuts a swath through the center of the camp, and tears down everything in its narrow path. The command tent suddenly becomes a tiny island at the center of a rushing river. 
The company is taken aback. Scout Master Ward stiffens, watchful. The totem pole creaks and sways, then falls cleanly onto the command tent, splitting it down the middle. Inside, something sparks, pops, then blows up. The tent bursts into flames. 
Secretary McIntire does not react. He stands perfectly still, watching the fire. Scout Master Ward taps him, grabs him, and shakes him. Secretary McIntire looks at him blankly. Scout Master Ward makes a snap decision. He turns to the company AND SHOUTS: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Hold your position! 
Scout Master Ward runs ahead, splashes into the raging flood, wades through it against the current, dodging branches and debris, then pulls himself up onto the fallen totem pole and walks balancing on it to the burning tent. He disappears inside. 
Secretary McIntire and the vast company watch, riveted. 
Scout Master Ward comes out the opposite side of the tent onto the other end of the fallen totem pole carrying Commander Pierce over his shoulders. He descends back into the water, trudges through it, and steps up onto the embankment. The company looks deeply, permanently impressed. Scout Master Ward hollers: 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Company Secretary! Status report, sir! 
Secretary McIntire hesitates. He stirs to attention and says ENTHUSIASTICALLY: 
SECRETARY MCINTIRE All accounted for, Scout Master! 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Supply and Resources! Call it out! 
Cousin Ben gives an A-OK sign near the front of the assembly. HE SHOUTS: 
COUSIN BEN Affirmative, sir! 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Fall in! We're going to run for it, boys! Let's move! 
The entire company follows Scout Master Ward with Commander Pierce over his shoulders at a fast jog out of the camp. 
INT. EPISCOPAL CHURCH. DAY 
The room has now been converted into a full-fledged refugee center. Families from the town-ship huddle in pews with bags and piles of their wet belongings. Priests and nuns distribute towels and sandwiches to frightened children. Dogs and cats prowl nervously. Sandbags are stacked in low walls outside the doors and windows. The rain beats on the roof, and lightning continues to flash through the stained glass. 
A side door opens. Captain Sharp comes in from the storm with Mr. and Mrs. Bishop. Lionel, Murray, Rudy, and the two old fishermen follow closely behind them. They slam the door. Captain Sharp looks around frantically. 
CAPTAIN SHARP Who's in charge here? 
Another side door opens. Scout Master Ward jogs in with Commander Pierce still over his shoulders and the entire company behind him flooding into the room. Captain Sharp yells to him: 
CAPTAIN SHARP Randy! What happened? 
Scout Master Ward goes over to Captain Sharp and turns his back to him, jogging in place. 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Take the commander off of me. 
Captain Sharp helps Commander Pierce down off Scout Master Ward's back and into a pew to rest. Secretary McIntire assists them. Mr. Bishop strides up the aisle yelling to the left and right: 
MR. BISHOP Suzy? Sam? 
SCOUT MASTER WARD (shaking his head) They ran away again. 
CAPTAIN SHARP (HORRIFIED) Juvenile refuge. That sounds like jail. 
Silence. In the background, the acolyte picks up Panagle's walking stick weapon off the floor. He stares at it, puzzled. Social Services says carefully: 
SOCIAL SERVICES Just find the boy -- and deliver him -- (motioning to herself) -- to Social Services. Nothing else is in your power. 
MR. BISHOP (SHARPLY) I'm sorry. 
Social Services, Captain Sharp, and Scout Master Ward turn to Mr. and Mrs. Bishop. Mr. Bishop looks tense. 
MR. BISHOP Can we get back to the rescue now? 
MRS. BISHOP (URGENTLY) Suzy's still out there. 
SOCIAL SERVICES (FROWNING) Who are you? 
SCOUT MASTER WARD Walt and Laura Bishop. Their daughter's the missing girl. 
SOCIAL SERVICES The parents of the stabber? 
MRS. BISHOP I object to that description. She was attacked. 
Commander Pierce appears with an oxygen mask over his face. He pulls it aside briefly and says to Secretary McIntire: 
COMMANDER PIERCE I want the details. Where's the scout she knifed? 
SECRETARY MCINTIRE Right here. 
Secretary McIntire snaps his fingers and gives a signal. Redford appears. 
REDFORD Field Mate Redford, sir. 
COMMANDER PIERCE (through the oxygen mask) What's his condition? 
SECRETARY MCINTIRE He may suffer some limited chronic kidney insufficiency. Here's the report. 
Secretary McIntire hands Commander Pierce a doctor's report. Mrs. Bishop snatches it and throws it over her shoulder. 
MRS. BISHOP We don't have time for this! 
SCOUT MASTER WARD She's right! 
SOCIAL SERVICES Let's go! 
Social Services turns and starts up the aisle. She stops suddenly. Captain Sharp is standing in their path brandishing Panagle's walking stick weapon. 
CAPTAIN SHARP Nobody's going anywhere. 
Everyone stops. Captain Sharp locks eyes with Social Services. He says in a steely voice: 
CAPTAIN SHARP He's not getting shock therapy. 
Social Services looks furious. Her jaw sets. She reaches inside her jacket and withdraws a small pad labelled Citation Book. 
SOCIAL SERVICES That's it! I'm citing you for gross misconduct! You are hereby summoned to appear before the board of -- 
Captain Sharp looks enraged. He grits his teeth. He reaches into his back pocket and withdraws a similar pad labelled Boating Violations. 
CAPTAIN SHARP I'm writing you up back! Be notified that you stand accused of the mistreatment and IMPROPER -- 
SOCIAL SERVICES (SCREAMING) What are you talking about? 
CAPTAIN SHARP (SCREAMING) I won't let you do it! 
REDFORD (SCREAMING) Look! 
Everyone looks. Redford is standing on a pew with his arm stretched out pointing up at the choir loft in amazement. The troop is there, but Sam's and Suzy's seats are empty. 
There is a flash, a bang, and all the lights in the room go out at once. People gasp. Candles flicker alight on candlesticks. A back-up generator kicks into gear, humming, and the room fills with a new, different light. 
Captain Sharp says to himself: 
CAPTAIN SHARP They're gone. 
